$~ft>  -^Ta  ./tLxLt-g/rg. 


A/ECQ. , 


AMERICAN 


TRANSCENDENTAL 


QUARTERLY 


MISCELLANEOUS 


SELECTED 


i=x}c\do 


AMERICAN 
TRANSCENDENTAL 
QUARTERLY 


#22 

z 
o 

>-  uu 
ro  0 

Part   3 
Spring,    1974 

*-•   UJ 

I* 

si 

z 

LU 

[The  first  five  items  compose  a  symposium  on  humor  in  the  literature 
of  the  American  Renaissance,  gathered  by  Professor  Jesse  Bier  of  the 
University  of  Montana,  whom  we  here  wish  to  thank  for  his  kind  help.] 

NEW  APPROACHES  TO  AMERICAN  HUMOR:  A  SYMPOSIUM     Jesse  Bier  86 

THE  HUMANE  SEER:   HUMOR  AND  ITS  AVATARS  IN  EMERSON     Maurice  Gonnaud  79 

WALT  WHITMAN'S  HUMOR     Roger  Asselineau   86 

PUNS  AND  EQUIVOCATION  IN  MELVILLE'S  THE  CONFIDENCE  MAN     John  G.  Blair 91 

"HOLY  GHOSTS  IN  CAGES"— A  SERIOUS  VIEW  OF  HUMOR  IN  EMILY  DICKINSON'S  POETRY 

John  Wheatcroft  .....   95 


HAWTHORNE  AND  SHAKESPEARE     Dorothea  Kehler    104 

OLIVER  WENDELL  HOLMES'S  RHYMED  PROBLEM     Jill  Perkins   105 

AYLMER'S  DIVINE  ROLES  IN  "THE  BIRTHMARK"      Thomas  F.  Scheer   108 

DOCUMENT 

A  HISTORY  OF  THE  AMISTAD  CAPTIVES     John  W.  Barber    109 

[Of  interest  to  students  of  Melville's  Benito  Cereno.3 

GLEANINGS  FROM  NEWSPRINT 

EMERSON  AND  TRANSCENDENTALISM    C.  F.  McClumpha    121 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  EMERSON     John  Vance  Cheney    122 

A  CLUB  INCIDENT  [TOUCHING  A  LECTURER  ON  EMERSON]     Charles  W.  Kent   122 

THE  SHADOW  AND  THE  LIGHT  OF  A  YOUNG  MAN'S  SOUL     Walter  Whitman 123 

EMERSON'S  POEMS   [A  REVIEW  FROM  THE  INDEPENDENT  OF  1867] 125 

MR.  EMERSON  IN  ST.  LOUIS:  "INSPIRATION"  ILLUSTRATED  AND  EXAMINED  126 

[Includes  Emerson's  replies  to  questions  from  the  audience.] 

THE  FREE  CONGREGATIONAL  SOCIETY  [AND  ITS  ROSTER  OF  LECTURERS]   (1867)   129 

EMERSON  LECTURES  IN  MADISON,  WISCONSIN    [A  REPORT  DATED  FEB.  9,  1867]  129 

TRAVELING  EAST  [TO  THE  CONCORD  OF  EMERSON  AND  BRONSON  ALCOTT]   (July  51,  1868)  .  .  .  130 

EMERSON  AND  CARLYLE  COMPARED  IN  THE  PALL  MALL  GAZETTE   (1867) 150 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/americantranscenOOcame 


79 


THE    HUMANE   SEER 


HUMOR  AND  ITS  AVATARS 


IN  EMERSON 


oP 


# 


.<? 


^ 


.#■ 


-V 


Emerson  is  not  one  of  those  writers  on  whom  much  critical  attention  has  ever  been  spent  in  an  effort 
to  describe  and  identify  some  peculiar  contribution  to  the  spirit  of  comedy.    For  one  thing,  his  lofty  in- 
terests seemed  hardly  compatible  with  the  relaxed  approach  of  the  humorist,  while  his  well-known  annoy- 
ance at  worldly  amusements  made  him  shrink  from  whatever  he  viewed  as  "frivolous"  (one  of  the  really 
damning  words  under  his  pen).    Thoreau,  as  every  one  knows,  misbehaved  out  of  principle;  he  was  enough 
of  a  virtuous  imp  to  enjoy  a  bit  of  subversive  leg -pulling.    Not  so  Emerson.    Recurrently  in  his  journals, 
he  frets  with  uncomfortable  dignity  at  the  indecorum  of  laughter,  scarifying  the  culprit  or  silently  deplor- 
ing his  animal  coarseness .    That  his  censure  of  loud  merriment  should  ultimately  be  ascribed  to  some 
gnawing  form  of  self-diffidence  does  not  alter  the  matter  appreciably.    It  is  all  too  clear  from  evidence  in 
his  writings  that  the  inspired  prophet  of  Nature  had  no  time  for  the  tomfolleries  of  his  fellow  creatures . 
Nor  could  he  be  expected  to  play  the  buffoon  to  them . 

Shall  I  confess  as  a  European  admirer  of  Emerson  (one,  incidentally,  who  had  to  fight  his  way  to  an 
appreciation  of  the  Emersonian  virtues)  that  I  have  never  been  able  to  reconcile  myself  to  this  view?    What 
I  find  characteristic  of  him,  almost  to  the  point  of  fatigue,  is  a  mercurial  ability  to  shift  his  ground  and 
assault  reality  from  a  kaleidoscopic  variety  of  angles  .    Except  for  a  few  occasional  stretches  of  exalted 
language  or,  on  the  contrary,  --and  even  more  rarely- -of  commonplace  prosiness,  Emerson  never  stays 
put.    And  as  he  somersaults  and  nimbly  changes  his  tack,  he  displays  a  startling  range  of  tones,  including 
the  flippant,  the  breezy,  the  mildly  or  sharply  satirical.    Perhaps  because  of  his  repeated  assertion  that 
only  a  mind  totally  devoid  of  constricting  peculiarities  can  converse  with  the  Oversoul,  many  of  his  readers 
seem  to  have  been  lured  into  the  belief  that  the  man  himself  (and  the  writer)  was  exempt  from  idiosyncrasies 
In  fact,  just  the  opposite  is  true.    Emerson  is  the  arch  romantic  and,  as  such,  is  fascinated  by  and  mar- 
vellously apt  to  register,  the  quivering  intensities  of  the  self.    If  the  great  pronouncements  of  the  middle 
period,  from  Nature  to  the  essay  on  "Experience,  "  illustrate  his  superb  lyrical  sweep,  there  hovers  about 
even  his  minor  writings  an  ingratiatingly  personal  atmosphere .    One  can  speak  of  a  distinctive  Emerson 
"manner",  involving  a  special  way  of  being  subjective  about  the  most  general  topics,  just  as  one  speaks  of 
the  "manner"  of  Dickens  or  of  some  other  leading  British  humorist. 

Emerson  is  so  little  concerned  with  the  prescriptions  of  society  and  the  strategy  of  defence  worked 
out  by  moderate  rebels  Like  Dickens  that  he  feels  he  can  define  humor  and  comedy  without  so  much  as  a  nod 
in  the  direction  of  other  men:    "The  perpetual  game  of  humor  is  to  look  with  considerate  good  nature  at 
every  object  in  existence,  aloof,  as  a  man  might  look  at  a  mouse,  comparing  it  with  the  eternal  Whole;  en- 
joying the  figure  which  each  self-satisfied  particular  creature  cuts  in  the  unrespecting  All,  and  dismissing 
it  with  a  benison.    Separate  any  object,  as  a  particular  bodily  man,  a  horse,  a  turnip,  a  flour-barrel,  an 
umbrella,  from  the  connection  of  things,  and  contemplate  it  alone,  standing  there  in  absolute  nature,  it  be- 
comes at  once  comic;  no  useful,  no  respectable  qualities  can  rescue  it  from  the  ludicrous  .  "1    Further  up 
in  the  same  essay  he  had  remarked  that  the  essence  of  all  jokes  seems  to  be  "an  honest  or  well-intended 
halfness,  "  implying  of  course  that  godly  perfection  would  kill  humor,  but  also  that  a  frank  and  cheery  ac- 
ceptance of  our  limitations  does  not  contradict  our  spiritual  nature- -indeed  that  it  constitutes  a  safeguard 
against  its  potential  vagaries . 


Unlike  his  British  contemporaries  embarrassed  by  a  sneaking  respect  for  tradition  in  the  very  act  of 
assaulting  it,  the  mature  Emerson  was  blessed  with  an  exhilarating  sense  of  uncommitted  freedom.    After 


80 
he  had  flung  off  his  epoch-making  challenges,  "The  American  Scholar,  "  "The  Divinity  School  Address, " 
"Self-Reliance,  "  his  social  stand  was  so  firmly  established  that  he  needed  to  fear  no  serious  threat  from 
outside  to  his  individual  integrity.    Meanwhile,  however,  the  danger  had  moved  stealthily  inward.    Unless 
there  were  operating  somewhere  "a  balance  wheel  in  our  metaphysical  structure"  (the  phrase  is  also  from 
the  essay  on  the  Comic),  he  would  not  be  long  falling  a  victim  to  the  excesses  of  antinomianism  and  har- 
boring such  pernicious  and  perhaps  deathly  illusions  as  fill  the  pages  of  the  essay  on  Demonology  .2    In  a 
lovely  bit  of  historical  retrospect,   Emerson  refers  somewhere  to  those  early  New  England  saints  who  had 
to  hold  hard  to  huckleberry  bushes  to  avoid  being  translated.    The  anecdote  is  transparently  relevant. 
Caught  into  the  whirlwind  of  inspiration  or  floated  irrepressibly  upwards  by  some  dazzling  Idea,  he,  too, 
must  cling  to  the  huckleberry  bush  of  his  own  humor. 

Little  notice  has  been  taken  on  the  whole  of  Emerson'  s  correspondence,  which  suffers  all  too  often 
from  a  sort  of  anaemia,  the  writer  trying  without  much  success  to  reconcile  his  austere  preoccupations 
with  the  conventions  and  graces  of  social  propriety.    As  a  result,  his  bantering  sounds  discouragingly 
stilted--when  it  does  not  fall  quite  flat.    Nevertheless  there  are  some  delightful  letters  to  his  wife  or  to 
dear  friends,  in  which  he  holds  himself  at  arm's  length,  so  to  speak,  and  uses  the  opportunity  of  unofficial 
communication  to  step  briefly  out  of  his  self-appointed  role.    Away  lecturing  at  the  time  of  his  most  ardent 
involvement  in  the  transcendental  battle,  he  is  capable  of  enough  detachment  to  send  home  the  following  re- 
port:   "You  must  know  I  am  reckoned  here  a  Transcendentalist,  and  what  that  beast  is,  all  persons  in 
Providence  have  a  great  appetite  to  know:  so  I  am  carried  duly  about  from  house  to  house,  and  all  the  young 
persons  ask  me  when  the  Lecture  is  coming  upon  the  Great  Subject?    In  vain  I  disclaim  all  knowledge  of  that 
sect  of  Lidian'  s--it  is  still  expected  I  shall  break  out  with  the  New  Light  in  the  next  discourse.    I  have  read 
here  my  essay  on  the  Age,  the  one  on  Home,  one  on  Love  and  one  on  Politics,  --these  seem  all  to  be  regarded 
as  mere  screens  and  subterfuges  while  this  dread  Transcendentalism  is  still  kept  back.    They  have  various 
definitions  of  the  word  current  here.    One  man,  of  whom  I  have  been  told,  in  good  earnest  defined  it  as 
'Operations  on  the  Teeth;'  a  young  man  named  Rodman  answered  an  inquiry  by  saying  'it  was  a  nickname 
which  those  who  stayed  behind  gave  to  those  who  went  ahead'  .    Meantime,  all  the  people  come  to  lecture, 
and  I  am  told  the  Lyceum  makes  money  by  me. "3    Despite  the  casual,  amused  tone,  the  statements  here 
are  anything  but  simple.    Emerson  is  wooed  by  earnest  audiences,  which  at  the  same  time  show  disappoint- 
ment and  irritation  at  his  never  reaching  the  inner  core  of  his  subject;  but  does  he  really  know  how  to?    Is 
their  superficial,  vulgar  dissatisfaction  as  vulgar  and  superficial  as  it  seems?    Is  the  ignorance  of  those  who 
cannot  trace  the  word  "transcendental"  to  a  correct  pedigree  much  worse  than  that  of  the  learned  who  are 
baffled  by  its  elusive  meaning?    If  not,  then  perhaps  true  wisdom  rests  on  a  basis  of  solid,  unromantic  facts 
and  boils  down  to  an  assessment  of  one'  s  market  value  as  a  lecturer. 

More  often,  though,  humor  discharges  itself  in  quick  muffled  strokes,  driving  home  to  the  addressee 
(and  also,  I  presume,  to  the  writer  himself)  the  tantalizing  dialectics  of  the  Oversoul,  as  in  this  letter  to 
Margaret  Fuller  written  to  acknowledge  the  arrival  of  a  package  of  transcendental  Literature:    "I  plunge  with 
eagerness  into  this  pleasant  element  of  affection  with  its  haps  and  harms .    It  seems  to  be  swimming  in  an 
Iris  where  I  am  rudely  knocked  ever  and  anon  by  a  ray  of  fiercer  red,  or  even  dazzled  into  momentary  blind- 
ness by  a  casual  beam  of  white  light.    The  weal  and  woe  is  all  Poetic- -I  float  all  the  time- -nor  once  grazed 
our  old  orb.    How  fine  these  letters  are!    I  do  not  know  whether  they  contented  or  discontented  me  most. 
They  make  me  a  little  impatient  of  my  honorable  prison- -my  quarantine  of  temperament  wherefrom  I  deal 
courteously  with  all  comers,  but  through  cold  water,  --and  while  I  get  a  true  shift  of  their  wit,  do  now  think 
I  get  never  an  earnest  word  from  them .    I  should  like  once  in  my  life  to  be  pommelled  black  and  blue  with 
sincere  words.    That  is  the  discontent .  "4    The  language  is  overly  metaphorical  and  plays  with  the  incon- 
gruous to  suggest  the  formidable  obstacles  lying  in  the  way  of  perfect  communication.    The  parenthetical 
allusion  to  Emerson'  s  "quarantine  of  temperament"  may  even  be  a  reminiscence  of  his  own  experience 
aboard  the  ship  taking  him  to  Europe  in  1833,  when  passengers  and  crew  were  told  to  keep  off  the  harbor  in 
Malta  "for  poor  dear  Europe'  s  health,  lest  it  should  suffer  prejudice  from  the  unclean  sands  and  mountains 
of  America.  "^    Humor  turns  out  to  be  his  most  effective  tool  to  capture  and  render  "this  old  Two-Face, 
creator -creature,  mind-matter,  right-wrong"  of  which  he  writes  so  knowingly  in  his  essay  "Nominalist  and 
Realist".6 

So  much,  in  fact,  and  much  more  of  equal  interest  is  said  in  a  fine  recent  article  by  Joel  Porte,  in 
which  the  author  vindicates  a  light-hearted  approach  to  transcendentalism  and  praises  its  occasionally 
prankish  spirit  on  the  ground  that  "the  very  consciousness  of  gaiety  is  a  final  mark  of  sanity- -a  guarantee 


81 
that  wild  improvisation  and  romantic  delusion  are  always  being  counterbalanced  and  corrected  by  amused 
self-awareness  ."7    I  would  like  to  push  the  thesis  somewhat  further  and  submit  that,  with  Emerson  at  least, 
there  was  a  gradual  training  in  humor,  resulting  in  attitudes  and  doctrines  about  which  he  had  earlier  had 
drastic  reservations . 

A  genuine  lightness  of  touch  came  hard  to  Emerson,  brought  up  as  he  was  on  the  thin,  decorous  no- 
tions of  New  England  Unitarianism .    In  his  richly  documented  introduction  to  the  Letters,  Rusk  notes  that 
in  his  adolescent  years  he  was  "lavish  with  puns,  satirical  epithets  and  mock-heroics  .  "8    But  these  were 
only  literary  mumps  and  measles,  which  he  soon  outgrew.    The  young  minister,  the  lecturer  in  his  nonage, 
is  hardly  remarkable  for  his  sense  of  humor.    Even  though  Montaigne,  "wild  and  savoury  as  sweet  fern,  "9 
engaged  his  fancy  at  a  surprisingly  early  period  and  became  his  life -long  mentor  in  the  art  of  sharp  per- 
ception and  racy  utterance,  the  seed  dropped  on  unfriendly  soil  was  a  long  time  germinating.    It  took  nothing 
less  than  a  long  strenuous  inner  debate  on  the  merits  of  transcendentalism,  ending  in  an  admission  of  some 
of  its  inherent  weaknesses,  to  open  Emerson's  eyes  to  the  virtues  and  charms  of  other  faiths  which  he  had 
hitherto  unjustly  slighted.    One  of  his  most  endearing  minor  pieces  is  undoubtedly  his  sketch  of  Ezra  Ripley, 
his  venerable  step -grandfather,  after  the  announcement  of  whose  death  the  Journals  recorded  a  wistful  medi- 
tation on  the  pieties  of  the  old  days  .    By  contrast  it  is  mundane  and  almost  garrulous  .    Emerson  for  once 
does  not  shrink  from  the  insertion  of  a  few  personal  reminiscences:    "Some  of  those  around  me  will  remem- 
ber one  occasion  of  severe  drought  in  the  vicinity,  when  the  late  Rev.  Mr.  Goodwin  offered  to  relieve  the 
Doctor  of  the  duty  of  leading  in  prayer;  but  the  Doctor  suddenly  remembering  the  season,  rejected  his  offer 
with  some  humor,  as  with  an  air  that  said  to  all  the  congregation,   'This  is  no  time  for  you,  young  Cam- 
bridge men;  the  affair,  sir,  is  getting  serious.    I  will  pray  myself.'    One  August  afternoon,  when  I  was  in 
his  hayfield  helping  him  with  his  man  to  rake  up  his  hay,  I  well  remember  his  pleading,  almost  reproachful 
looks  at  the  sky,  when  the  thunder-gust  was  coming  up  to  spoil  his  hay.    He  raked  very  fast,  then  looked  at 
the  cloud  and  said,   '  We  are  in  the  Lord'  s  hand;  mind  your  rake,  George!    We  are  in  the  Lord'  s  hand;'  and 
seemed  to  say,   '  You  know  me;  this  field  is  mine,  --Dr.  Ripley's,  --thine  own  servant!'  "10    But  the  control- 
ling intention  is  serious  under  the  ripple  of  anecdotes.    The  old  man  was  a  moving,  though  anachronistic, 
symbol  of  the  religion  which    "in  the  heyday  of  its  strength  had  planted  and  liberated  America. "H    Emer- 
son sees  no  jarring  unpleasantness  in  the  coupling  together  of  the  earnest  and  the  sacred  with  the  slightly 
ludicrous;  indeed  one  bolsters  the  other  up  and  makes  it  lifelike:    "It  was  a  pity  that  his  old  meeting-house 
should  have  been  modernized  in  his  time.    I  am  sure  all  who  remember  both  will  associate  his  form  with 
whatever  was  grave  and  droll  in  the  old,  cold,  unpainted,  uncarpeted,  square-pewed  meeting-house,  with 
its  four  iron -gray  deacons  in  their  little  box  under  the  pulpit,  --with  Watts'  s  hymns,  with  long  prayers, 
rich  with  the  diction  of  ages;  and  not  less  with  the  report  like  musketry  from  the  movable  seats ." 

A  further  stretch  of  sympathy  will  enable  Emerson,  a  decade  later,  to  deal  with  England  in  the  same 
quiet  spirit  of  shrewd  tolerance.    The  chapter  on  religion  in  English  Traits  moves  relentlessly  and  predict- 
ably towards  the  severe  conclusion  that  cant  reigns  supreme  in  the  old  home,  since  the  Church  "has  nothing 
left  but  possession,  "12  vet  the  overall  picture  is  suffused  with  a  kind  of  manly  tenderness  which  precludes 
petulance.    A  welter  of  anecdotes,  proverbs,  aphorisms,  historical  data  laced  with  family  names  gives  the 
book  a  rough  solidity  of  outline  as  well  as  truly  catholic  breadth,  while  warning  the  reader  against  premature 
conclusions .    Humor  becomes  one  of  the  retarding  techniques  used  by  the  writer  to  discourage  and  thwart 
his  own  bent  for  abstraction.    The  total  image  of  England  ultimately  slides  into  focus,  but  not  until  the  by- 
ways of  odd  individual  behavior  (as  opposed  to  the  "camino  real"  of  History)  have  been  leisurely  explored. 
Once  a  ballast  meant  to  counteract  the  skyward  pull  of  inspiration,  humor  reveals  itself  now  as  an  instru- 
ment of  composition  on  a  much  larger  scale,  contributing  a  humane  note  to  Emerson'  s  exacting  search  for 
truth  and  providing  to  no  small  extent  for  the  new  impression  of  sharp  racy  concreteness . 


Whoever  has  acquired  some  degree  of  familiarity  with  the  writings  of  Emerson  will  feel  that  reason- 
ableness and  a  chastening  sense  of  proportions  fail  to  account  for  everything  in  them  that  can  be  called 
humorous .    Indeed  his  "manner"  at  its  most  original  not  only  has  little  to  do  with  the  restraining  virtue  of 
reason  but  flaunts  a  joyful  boisterous  exuberance  which  seems  to  negate  and  mock  its  niggardly  methods . 
For  him  an  overflow  of  gaiety  was  inseparable  from  true  greatness,  as  he  made  clear  in  an  early  lecture: 
"Sport  is  the  bloom  and  glow  of  perfect  health.    The  great  will  not  condescend  to  take  any  thing  seriously; 
all  must  be  as  gay  as  the  song  of  a  canary,  though  it  were  the  building  of  cities  or  the  eradication  of  old 


82 

and  foolish  churches  and  nations,  which  have  cumbered  the  earth  long  thousand  of  years.  "13   One  is  tempted 
to  read  this  judgment  as  an  oblique  comment  on  his  own  anxieties  during  the  years  of  early  manhood.    A 
congenital  weakness  of  constitution  (he  was  fond  of  referring  with  a  wry  smile  to  his  "lack  of  animal  spirits") 
compounded  by  protracted  ill-health  had  jeopardized  and  nearly  ruined  his  hopes  of  social  promotion  and 
spiritual  progress  .    Heroism,  as  he  came  to  discover,  was  not  entirely  a  matter  of  asceticism  and  self- 
control.    He  revered  Plutarch  for  the  loftiness  of  his  ideals,  but  looked  to  Montaigne  for  a  balanced  report 
on  the  human  condition.     Even  before  he  inhaled  the  heady  fumes  of  the  transcendental  philosophy,  he  knew 
that  the  fullness  of  the  spirit  depended  on  the  availability  of  a  responsive  body. 

In  the  late  1830'  s  and  early  1840'  s  he  enjoyed  a  superabundance  of  creative  energy,  which  overspilled, 
so  to  speak,  into  language.    The  result  was  a  series  of  frolicsome  sallies  curiously  associated  with  the  in- 
tensity and  overbearing  assurance  of  the  spiritual  guide.    One  of  the  difficulties  that  have  to  be  met  by  any- 
one wishing  to  come  to  terms  with  the  major  texts  of  the  Emerson  canon  centers  in  what  might  be  called  a 
strategy  of  eccentricity.    It  would  seem  that  the  truths  that  really  matter  cannot  be  stated  plainly,  in  simple 
and  neutral  form,  but  must  be  aggrandized  and  played  upon.    Excess  becomes  the  writer'  s  best  ally  in  that 
game  of  slanted  revelations  and  takes  on  a  variety  of  guises:    in  the  remarks  on  the  Chardon  Street  Conven- 
tion!'*--virtually  a  locus  of  Emerson' s  humor- -jolliness  and  fun  build  up  to  a  Rabelaisian  sequence  of  pre- 
posterous names;  elsewhere  the  effect  of  drollery  is  achieved  through  quaint  metaphors,  witty  asides,  in- 
congruous hyperboles  or  a  sudden,  and  apparently  wayward,  shifting  of  the  tone  from  the  imperious  and  the 
solemn  to  the  colloquial  and  back  again:    "Let  a  man  then  know  his  worth,  and  keep  things  under  his  feet. 
Let  him  not  peep  or  steal,  or  skulk  up  and  down  with  the  air  of  a  charity  boy,  a  bastard,  or  an  interloper 
in  the  world  which  exists  for  him .    But  the  man  in  the  street,  finding  no  worth  in  himself  which  corresponds 
to  the  force  which  built  a  tower  or  sculptured  a  marble  god,  feels  poor  when  he  looks  on  these.    To  him  a 
palace,     a  statue,  or  a  costly  book  have  an  alien  and  forbidding  air,  much  like  a  gay  equipage,  and  seem  to 
say  like  that,   'Who  are  you,  Sir?'     Yet  they  are  all  his,  suitors  for  his  notice,  petitioners  to  his  faculties 
that  they  will  come  out  and  take  possession. "15 

Curiously  enough,  very  few  critics  have  commented  significantly  on  this  almost  ubiquitous,  if  elusive, 
quality  of  Emerson's  writing  at  its  most  attractive  and  forceful,  though  as  far  back  as  1931  Constance  Rourke 
had  brilliantly  suggested  the  blend  of  lyricism,  improvisation  and  detachment  which  gave  his  voice  its  ap- 
pealing authority.    Emerson  was  no  philosopher,  she  explained;  he  was  not  equipped  to  work  out  in  detail  a 
critique  of  American  life,  but  he  commanded  a  marvellous  and  largely  instinctive  ability  to  emulate  the  modes 
of  incipient  vernacular  comedy:    "He  followed  the  form  of  the  native  monologue,  in  which  the  first  person  had 
been  steadily  used,  the  personal  revelation  of  fact  or  feeling  consistently  avoided,  which  had  moved  toward 
the  generic,  including  the  many  experiences  rather  than  the  one.    So  far  as  the  shell  of  the  monologue  had 
been  broken  at  all,  this  was  by  some  slight  echo  of  the  interior  voice,  brimming  over  in  sound  and  rhythm 
rather  than  in  direct  statement,  tending  toward  the  soliloquy.  ...    He  has  often  been  linked  with  the  Puritan 
divines  by  way  of  the  pulpit,  but  these  men  attempted  to  unroll  the  voice  of  God;  their  own  part  was  imper- 
sonal.   In  Emerson  the  personal  inner  voice  spoke;  and  this  belonged  not  to  the  realm  of  introspection  culti- 
vated by  the  Puritan,  but  to  that  other  realm  of  the  plain  Yankee,  who  consciously  listened  to  his  own  mind, 
whose  deliberate  speech  had  room  for  undertones  and  further  meanings  ."16   As  one  might  surmise  from 
Rourke' s  emphasis  on  improvisation  and  monologue,  the  writings  intended  for  publication  were  not  the  only 
ones  amenable  to  humor.    The  letters  and,  even  more,  the  journals  called  out  in  full  Emerson's  cunningly 
varied  gifts,  provoked  his  little-recognized  capacity  for  witty  elaboration  and  on  occasion  set  him  free-wheel- 
ing with  unchecked  candor  and  an  engaging  disregard  for  consistency,  as  in  this  entry  dated  19  September 
1838,  in  which  he  records  a  humble  incident  and  proceeds  to  extract  its  meaning  with  playful  virtuosity:    "I 
found  in  the  wood  this  afternoon  the  drollest  mushroom,  tall,  stately,  pretending,  uprearing  its  vast  dome  as 
if  to  say  '  Well  I  am  something!    Burst,  ye  beholders!  thou       lucky  beholder!  with  wonder. '     Its  dome  was  a 
deep  yellow  ground  with  fantastic  starlike  ornaments  richly  overwrought;  so  shabby  genteel,  so  negro  fine, 
the  St  Peter'  s  of  the  beetles  and  pismires .    Such  ostentation  in  petto  I  never  did  see.    I  touched  the  white 
column  with  my  stick,  --it  nodded  like  old  Troy,  and  so  eagerly  recovered  the  perpendicular  as  seemed  to 
plead  piteously  with  me  not  to  burst  the  fabric  of  its  pride.    Shall  I  confess  it?    I  could  almost  hear  my  little 
Waldo  at  home  begging  me  as  when  I  have  menaced  his  little  block  house,  and  the  little  puff-ball  seemed  to 
say  '  Don' t,  papa,  pull  it  down!'     So,  after  due  admiration  of  this  blister,  this  cupola  of  midges,  I  left  the 
little  scaramouch  alone  in  its  glory.    Goodbye  Vanity,  Goodbye  Nothing!    Certainly  there  is  Comedy  in  the 
Divine  Mind  when  these  little  Vegetable  Self  conceits  front  the  day  as  well  as  Newton  or  Goethe,  with  such  im- 
pressive emptiness .  "17 


83 
Given  the  limited  compass  of  this  entry,  the  range  of  moods  is  rather  startling.    There  is  in  turn 
puzzled  curiosity,  irresponsible  delight,  a  touch  of  amused  scorn  modulating  into  wistful  tenderness,  and 
in  the  end  something  like  meditativeness  qualified  by  flippancy.    However,  the  passage  does  not  dissolve 
into  sheer  inconsequence,  because  it  is  held  together  by  the  pronoun  "I"  serving  as  the  index  to  various 
authorial  stances,  from  the  neutrally  observant  in  the  opening  sentence  to  the  intimate  and  the  reminiscent 
in  the  Waldo  anecdote.    The  self  of  the  writer  has  been  so  well  trained  in  the  exercise  of  symbolic  enlarge- 
ment that  it  moves  effortlessly,  by  deft  little  jumps,  up  and  down  the  scale  of  being.    The  general  effect  is 
both  "subtle  and  sinewy";  18  it  reveals  a  mind  able  to  revel  in  the  oddities  of  the  world  and  to  give  its  loving 
faith  to  their  ultimate  continuity . 

In  characteristic  fashion,  the  range  of  ideas  and  feelings  is  paralleled  in  this  entry  by  a  flood  of 
rhetorical  devices  developed  or  suggested  in  breath-taking  succession.    The  dominant  tone,  which  is  mock- 
heroic,  gives  rise  to  ludicrous  comparisons,  prosopopeias  (exalted  or  deflated),  hyperboles,  classical  al- 
lusions, oxymorons,  conceits.    Language  throughout  is  handled  so  cleverly  and  so  generously  as  to  convey 
a  sense  of  its  own  self-sufficient  finality  together  with  the  writer'  s  pure  joy  in  making  himself  its  servant. 
In  the  same  way  that  the  pronoun  "I"  expands  to  generic  proportions  through  the  manifold  acts  and  attitudes 
that  it  supports,  the  expression  feeds  on  multiple  sources,  familiar  as  well  as  learned,  brings  alien  or  ir- 
relevant elements  into  forced  vicinity,  and  achieves  some  sort  of  original  (though  precarious)  synthesis  in 
the  crucible  of  improvised  literary  composition.    The  method  and  the  result  look  strikingly  forward  to  Walt 
Whitman  and  to  the  "comic  spirit"--the  phrase  is  Richard  Chase' s- -pervading  some  of  the  most  memorable 
sections  of  "Song  of  Myself" .  19 

As  the  years  went  by,  however,  such  outbursts  of  "gaiety  and  festive  energy"--to  borrow  another  of 
Chase's  formulae --became  less  and  less  frequent.    Beginning  with  the  crisis  of  the  early  1840' s,   Emerson 
experienced  a  growing  sense  of  exhaustion  and  found  himself  unable  to  conjure  up  the  spirit  of  ebullient 
kindly  amusement  with  which  he  had  met  so  far  even  the  daftest  vagaries  of  his  fellow  creatures  .    His  faith 
remained  unaltered,  but  ominous  implications  had  crept  into  it,  adding  a  disturbing  edge  to  the  play  of  his 
fancy.    When  he  offered  a  course  of  lectures  on  New  England  in  1843,  he  mocked  the  silly  voracity  for  ex- 
citement of  his  compatriots  and  allowed  a  mood  of  grim  drollery  to  take  control  when  he  came  to  excoriate 
their  passion  for  quick  travel:    "The  men  and  women  shall  be  galvanically  conveyed,  or  they  may  be  put  in 
large  quills  and  propelled  across  the  Atlantic  by  the  pressure  of  the  atmosphere;  or  dressed  in  diving-suits 
manufactured  (n°  6  Tremont  Street,  Boston)  by  the  Roxbury  Company,  and  conveyed  by  submarine  siphons 
and  come  up  near  Liverpool  in  fountains  spouting  men  and  women.  ...    In  order  to  avoid  the  danger  of  sub- 
marine volcanoes,  strenuous  measures  are  to  be  adopted  by  the  countries  abutting  on  the  two  ends  of  the 
canal.    It  is  disgraceful  that  every  two  years  an  earthquake  should  be  allowed,  from  mere  want  of  proper 
ventilation,  to  swallow  a  town  like  a  custard. ...    It  may  hereafter  be  found  best  when  the  structure  of  the 
human  body  is  better  understood,  and  the  science  of  anatomy  is  perfect,  to  take  passengers  to  pieces  and 
transport  them  in  the  air  or  under  the  sea  in  parts  chemically  packed,  to  be  put  together  by  the  Transpor- 
tation Company  on  the  other  side  at  the  Depot,  and  the  greatest  care  given  to  keep  the  packages  identical. "20 
Below  the  seemingly  gratuitous  fun  is  a  stern  realization  of  the  fatuousness  of  man'  s  ambitions,  and  ulti- 
mately of  the  de-humanizing  effect  of  purely  mechanical  advances .    A  bitter  variety  of  irony  has  taken  over 
from  good-natured  comedy  and  prepares  the  way  for  an  even  more  scathing  indictment  of  brutality  and  un- 
couthness  masquerading  as  progress  . 

Because  they  were  still  largely  hypothetical  and  aroused  more  scorn  than  fear  in  the  lecturer  himself, 
the  perverse  tendencies  in  men  could  still  be  confronted  with  some  measure  of  equanimity  in  1843.    By 
1850,  after  the  adoption  of  the  Fugitive  Slave  Law  and  Daniel  Webster'  s  ignominious  betrayal  (so  at  least 
Emerson  construed  his  speech  in  support  of  the  hated  law),  the  revulsion  from  rampant  baseness  and  hy- 
pocrisy was  unqualified.    The  time  for  ludicrous  denunciations  was  over;  indulgence  in  semi -private  jokes 
had  become  indecent.    Under  the  compulsion  of  Emerson's  outraged  moral  sense,  irony  suddenly  hardened 
into  vicious  satire,  as  in  this  fragment  of  the  journal  lacerating  the  North  for  its  submissiveness  to  the 
dictates  of  the  South:    "But  the  crime  of  kidnapping  is  on  a  footing  with  the  crimes  of  murder  and  of  incest, 
and  if  the  Southern  states  should  find  it  necessary  to  enact  the  further  law,  in  view  of  the  too  great  increase 
of  blacks,  that  every  fifth  manchild  should  be  boiled  in  hot  water,  and  obtain  a  majority  in  Congress  with  a 
speech  by  Mr.  Webster  to  add  an  article  to  the  Fugitive  Slave  Bill,  --that  any  fifth  child  so  and  so  selected, 
having  escaped  into  Boston  should  be  boiled  there,  seethed  in  water  at  212°,  will  not  the  Mayor  and  Alder- 
man boil  him?"21    The  thinly  veiled  reference  to  Swift'  s  A  Modest  Proposal,  the  concentration  of  the  argu- 
ment together  with  its  forceful  logic  and  relentless  accuracy,  all  bear  evidence  to  an  overwhelming  earnestness 


84 
in  the  writer.    The  energy  of  utterance  has  not  abated  a  jot,  but  the  saving  grace  of  festiveness  is  missing. 
It  is  as  if  the  broad  generosity  of  an  earlier  period  had  been  channelled  into  an  aggressive  righteousness, 
which  explodes  in  volleys  of  wrath  and  pommels  turncoats  and  cowards  .    Meanwhile,  as  Emerson'  s  anger 
fastens  on  guilty  individuals,  the  tone  reaches  an  unprecedented  degree  of  stridency.    Invective  is  the  end- 
point  of  a  long  process  of  disenchantment  with  the  world. 

There  was  to  be,  however,  one  more  rebound  to  Emerson's  surprisingly  checkered  career  as  a 
humorist.    A  few  months  after  the  disastrous  Fugitive  Slave  Law  had  been  passed,  he  accepted  an  invita- 
tion to  visit  Cincinnati  and  took  advantage  of  the  occasion  to  push  on  into  the  wild  West.    The  following  year 
and  again  in  the  winter  of  1852-1853  he  journeyed  far  and  wide  beyond  the  Alleghenies,  bearing  with  smiling 
fortitude  the  discomforts  of  pioneer  life  in  the  mud  of  the  prairie.    It  is  hard  not  to  link  this  determination 
to  discover  at  close  range  the  new  nation  taking  shape  out  West  with  his  feeling  of  prostration  and  disgust 
after  the  treason  of  the  civilized  East.    With  typical  resilience,  he  turned  to  the  raw  energies  available  in 
unspoilt  parts  of  the  country  for  a  renewal  of  his  own  ebbing  vitality.    The  cure  worked  so  well  that  even 
the  literary  man  in  him  benefited  from  it.    In  fact,  he  was  only  heeding  the  advice  he  had  once  given  when, 
in  an  attempt  to  "offset  the  transatlantic  excess  of  influence"  on  American  letters,  he  had  encouraged  the 
readers  of  The  Dial  to  turn  their  eyes  westward  and  to  seek  inspiration  in  such  "genuine  growths"  of  the 
American  soil  as  "the  Kentucky  stump  oratory"  and  "the  exploits  of  Boone  and  Davy  Crockett. "22 

Brought  into  prolonged  contact  with  the  representatives  of  this  largely  autonomous  culture,   Emerson 
relished  its  freshness  and  remained  undeterred  by  its  crudities.    A  still  unpublished  "Journal  at  the  West" 
covering  the  years  1850-1851  bears  delightful  testimony  to  his  enjoyment  of  the  scenes,  the  people  and  the 
peculiarities  of  language  characteristic  of  their  expansive  spirit.    He  can  render  with  breezy  gusto  the 
pioneer'  s  resolve  to  forge  his  way  ahead  and  ignore  the  niceties  of  form,  for  example,  in  this  entry  de- 
scribing the  way  a  local  university  was  set  up:    "Mr.  J.  A.  Wilder  made  me  acquainted  with  the  University 
of  Rochester,  which  was  extemporising  here  like  a  picnic.    They  had  bought  a  hotel,  once  a  railroad  ter- 
minus depot,  for  $8500,  turned  the  dining-room  into  a  chapel  by  putting  up  a  pulpit  on  one  side,  made  the 
bar-room  into  a  Pythologian  Society's  Hall,  and  the  chambers  into  Recitation  rooms,  Libraries  and  pro- 
fessors' apartments,  all  for  $700  a  year.    They  had  brought  an  omnibus  load  of  professors  down  from  Madi- 
son bag  and  baggage --Hebrew,  Greek,  Chaldee,  Latin,  Belles -Lettres,  Mathematics  and  all  Sciences, 
called  in  a  painter,  put  him  up  a  ladder  to  paint  the  title  '  University  of  Rochester'  on  the  wall,  and  now  they 
had  runners  on  the  road  to  catch  students .    One  lad  came  in  yesterday;  another  this  morning;  '  thought  they 
should  like  it  first  rate;'  and  now  they  thought  themselves  ill-used  if  they  did  not  get  a  new  student  every 
day.    And  they  are  confident  of  graduating  a  class  of  ten  by  the  time  green  peas  are  ripe. "23 

Elsewhere  he  demonstrates  that  he  is  capable  of  responding  to  the  appeal  of  the  tall  tale;  recording 
one  of  those  yarns  which  grew  out  of  popular  imagination,  he  succeeds  in  capturing  its  swashbuckling  ro- 
bustness and  improves  the  effect  by  wittily  dramatizing  the  process  of  collective  accumulation  which  is  at 
the  heart  of  the  genre:    "The  path  of  a  tornado  is  traced  through  the  forest,  of  the  same  width  for  miles  . 
They  tell  of  a  child  who  was  carried  five  miles  by  one .    This  was  too  good  to  leave  alone .    So  we  presently 
heard  of  a  tornado  which  drove  a  plough  through  a  field,  and  turned  as  pretty  a  furrow  all  round  the  field 
as  you  ever  saw.    This  of  course  suggested  a  storm  in  Havana  where  the  wind  blew  so  hard  that  a  man  was 
left  clinging  to  an  iron  lamp-post,  with  nothing  on  him  but  his  stock  and  his  spurs  ."24 

In  yet  another  fragment  of  the  same  unpublished  Journal,  Emerson  lists  eight  "Middle  West  emblems" 
for  their  earthy  symbolism,  25  thereby  anticipating  Whitman'  s  use  of  the  same  terms  more  or  less  to  the 
same  purpose  in  section  sixteen  of  "Song  of  Myself".    The  final  lesson  taught  by  the  wide  spaces  of  the  West 
was  one  in  which  self-confidence,  cheerfulness  and  unblinking  realism  each  received  its  due  share  of  atten- 
tion.   After  a  long  circuitous  journey,  Emerson  entered  the  actual  territory  which  he  had  set  out  much 
earlier  to  explore  in  imagination.    Better  than  anything,  the  kinship  in  tone  and  manner  and  the  resolutely 
playful  stance  in  the  face  of  hardships  and  adversity  emphasize  the  sturdy  oneness  of  the  man  through  and 
beyond  the  traumatic  experience  of  1850.    Constance  Rourke'  s  insight  about  Emerson'  s  instinctive  sym- 
pathy with  the  emerging  modes  of  nature  humor  finds  itself  brilliantly  confirmed  by  the  late  journal  entries . 
One  likes  to  think  that  Emerson,  who  appreciated  Dickens'  s  books  but  moderately,  would  have  hailed  Huckle- 
berry Finn  as  yet  another  egregious  piece  of  wit  and  wisdom . 


85 

Any  student  of  Emerson  approaching  his  writings  from  a  specific  angle  has  come  upon  the  formidable 
difficulty  of  having  to  introduce  consistency  and  order  where  none  seems  to  exist.    Humor  is  no  exception. 
Playing  an  endless  game  of  hide-and-seek  with  the  reader,  it  appears  and  disappears  in  fitful  alternation, 
resists  sustained  analysis,  and  changes  its  identity  to  further  the  confusion.    However,  this  very  aptness  to 
metamorphosis  expresses  a  deeply  felt  need  to  correct  the  rigidity  or  one-sidedness  of  ideas  entertained  in 
isolation  from  daily  realities .    To  that  extent  humor  is  inseparable  from  Emerson'  s  talent  to  seize  upon 
life  as  it  is  experienced  rather  than  as  it  is  viewed  in  the  mind'  s  eye.    Despite  its  inconspicuous  and  elusive 
nature  it  puts  the  seal  of  truthfulness  on  his  writings .    Even  the  glorious  vaticinations  in  Nature  cannot  quite 
stand  on  their  own  merits  .    They  need  to  be  authenticated  by  the  author'  s  otherwise  profuse  evidence  of  san- 
ity. 

University  of  Lyon 


1  "Comedy,"  Complete  Works  (Centenary  Ed.),  VIII,  pp.  158-159.    Paying  homage  many  years  later  to 
Carlyle's  inexhaustible  capacity  for  humor,  Emerson  hit  upon  the  same  comparison  relating  man  to  animal 
rather  than  man  to  man .    Cf.    Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches  (Complete  Works ,  X)p.  495. 

2  "Demonology, "  Complete  Works,  X,  pp.  3-28.    The  whole  essay  is  intended  as  a  warning  against  the 
seductive  "flattery  of  omens  . " 

3  Letter  to  Ruth  Has  kins  Emerson,  March  28,   1840.    See  Letters,  ed.  Ralph  L.  Rusk(N.Y.,   1939),  II, 
266.  4   Ibid.,  Ill,  239-240. 

5  Journals  and  Miscellaneous  Notebooks  (Cambridge,  Mass.),  IV  (1964),  pp.  115-116. 

6  Complete  Works,  III,  p.  245.    (Essays,  Second  Series). 

7  Joel  Porte,   "Transcendental  Antics, "  in  Veins  of  Humor,  Harvard  English  Studies,  111(1972),  p.  173. 

8  Letters ,  I ,  xiii .  ' 

9  Letter  to  Mary  Moody  Emerson,  Dec.  25,   1831,  in  Journals ,  II  (Boston,   1909),  p.  441. 

10  "Ezra  Ripley,  P.P."  in  Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches,  pp.  386-387. 

11  Ibid. ,  383.    Italics  below  are  mine . 

12  English  Traits,  ch.  XIII  ("Religion"),  in  Complete  Works ,  V,  p.  230. 

13  The  Early  Lectures  of  R.  W.  Emerson,  II  (1964),  p.  334.    An  almost  identical  statement  occurs  in  the 
sketch  of  Carlyle  when  Emerson  tries  to  define  his  Scottish  friend'  s  overwhelming  vitality.    See  Lectures 
and  Biographical  Sketches ,  p.  495. 

14  "The  Chardon  Street  Convention"  in  Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches ,  pp.  371-377. 

15  "Self-Reliance"  in  Complete  Works,  II,  pp.  61-62  (Essays,  First  Series). 

16  Constance  Rourke,  American  Humor  (Garden  City,   1953),  ch.  VI  ("I  hear  America  Singing"),  pp.  134-135. 

17  JMN,  VII  (1969),  p.  80.  18    Constance  Rourke  in  her  foreward  to  American  Humor . 

19  Cf.  Richard  Chase,  Walt  Whitman  Re-considered  (London,   1955),  ch.  II  ("One's  self  I  sing"),  p.  58. 
Further  on  he  traces  Whitman'  s  humor  unequivocally  back  to  Emerson'  s,  which  he  describes  as  "spontan- 
eous, odd,  yeasty"  (p.  73). 

20  "New  England,  n°  3;    Manners."    (Unpub.  lecture  deposited  in  the  Houghton  Library,  Harvard  University. 
(H.  199.3). 

21  Journals ,  VIII,  p.  200.    Continued  in  an  unpub.  journal  deposited  in  the  Houghton  Library:    BO,  pp.  269- 
270.    (H.  60). 

22  "Europe  and  European  Books"  (The  Dial,  April,   1843).    The  phrases  quoted  here  are  from  Complete 
Works,  I,  p.  416. 

23  "Journal  at  the  West . "    In  the  Houghton  Library .    (H.  109a).  24    Ibid. 

25    "Ohio --Buckeye;    Indiana --Hoosier;    Illinois --Sucker;    Kentucky- -Corncracker;    Missouri -Puke; 
Arkansas --Wolverine;    Wisconsin—Badger;    Iowa--Hawkeye"    (Ibid.) 


juwW^ 


>U><~-, 


NEW  APPROACHES      *>  ""** 


86 


I  am  pleased  to  have  been  useful  in  gathering  these  essays  on  humor  in  Emerson,  Dickinson,  Mel- 
ville, and  Whitman,  chief  figures  of  mid -Nineteenth-Century  American  literature.    I  think  it  is  noteworthy 
that  articles  on  humor  in  Poe  and  Hawthorne  are  hard  to  come  by;  work  on  Poe'  s  borderline  comedy  and 
hysteria  finds  increasing  place  in  recent  books  devoted  to  the  author,  but  not  in  independent,  focused  ar- 
ticles .    Convincing  work  on  Hawthorne'  s  humor  has  not  been  offered  in  any  shape  or  form .    These  two  im- 
portant figures  remain  con  spicuous  by  their  absence  from  our  discussion. 

I  recommend  what  Professor  Asselineau  shows  as  the  underlying  pervasiveness  of  humor  in  Whitman 
(notwithstanding  that  his  view  is  opposed  to  previous  objections  of  my  own,  published  elsewhere).    What  it 
reveals  of  the  question  of  basic  attitude  is  important.    I  call  attention  also  to  Professor  Blair'  s  application 
of  ambiguity  to  humor  (or  humor  to  ambiguity);  he  traces  their  deep  interconnection,  significant  both  in  the 
study  of  Melville,  of  course,  and  in  any  theory  of  humor.    I  wish  also  to  pay  homage  to  the  fine  and  some- 
times miraculous  subtlety  in  the  work  of  Wheatcroft  on  Emily  Dickinson  and  of  Gonnaud  on  Emerson;  further- 
more, the  comprehensiveness  of  Wheatcroft'  s  view  will  be  a  landmark  in  any  approach  to  Dickinson. 

This  impromptu  team  of  critics  is  international,  at  least  cis -Atlantic.    It  includes  the  American, 
Professor  Wheatcroft,  and  the  two  French  scholars,  Professors  Asselineau  and  Gonnaud.    Professor  Blair, 
an  American  holding  the  chair  in  American  Literature  at  the  University  of  Geneva,  strikes  the  balance.    1 
commend  their  diverse  views  to  the  attention  of  any  student  or  scholar  interested  in  the  strong  role  of 
American  humor  in  classic  American  literature. 

Jesse  Bier 


A  SYMPOSIUM 


WALT  WHITMAN'S  HUMOR 

Is  there  such  a  thing  as  Walt  Whitman'  s  humor?    Opinions  differ.    Constance  Rourke  annexed  him  and 
included  his  name  in  her  inventory  of  American  Humor  for  two  reasons,  as  it  seems:    because  he  followed 
Emerson's  advice  and  hitched  his  wagon  to  a  star  and  because  he  heard  America  singing.    These,  however, 
are  not  very  convincing  arguments  and  it  is  not  surprising  that  Jesse  Bier,  on  the  contrary,  in  his  Rise  and 
Fall  of  American  Humor,  should  make  a  case  for  Whitman's  total  humorlessness .  1    And  yet  Richard  Chase 
asserted  that  '"  Song  of  Myself  is  on  the  whole  comic  in  tone  and  that  although  the  poem'  s  comic  effects  are 
of  universal  significance,  they  often  take  the  specific  form  of  American  humor.  "^    Whom  are  we  to  believe? 


87 

A  priori  there  seems  to  be  an  absolute  incompatibility  between  humor  and  lyric  poetry  and  more  than 
an  s '  s~difference  between  "comic"  and  "cosmic."    Whereas  humor  consists  in  playing  with  ludicrous  con- 
trasts", lyric  poetry  sings  the  emotions  of  the  self  facing  the  universe  (and/or  nothingness),  and  at  first 
sight  they  seem  to  have  little  in  common.    Yet,  great  lyric  or  dramatic  poets  have  succeeded  in  combining 
them.    Shakespeare,  Jean-Paul  Richter,  Dylan  Thomas  and  Paul  Claudel  are  illustrations  of  this  possibility. 
Claudel  went  even  so  far  as  to  say:    "La  farce  est  la  forme  exaspSree  du  lyrisme  et  1'  expression  herolque 
de  la  joie  de  vivre. . .  ."3    He  was  right.    The  same  exuberance  and  exhilaration  is  at  the  root  of  both  forms 
of  expression.    The  poet  and  the  humourist  react  with  both  passion  and  intensity  to  the  beauty  and  horror  of 
life.    So  the  same  writer  may  either  in  turn  or  simultaneously  sing  and  laugh,  rhapsodize  or  mock. 

Whitman,  for  his  part,  anyway,  was  not  a  pure  poet.    True,  he  stripped  lyric  poetry  of  all  its  tradi- 
tional trappings  in  Leaves  of  Grass,  but  he  discovered  lyricism  quite  late  in  life .    He  started  as  a  prose 
writer  of  the  lowest  order  (i.e.,  as  a  journalist),  and  never  ceased  to  write  prose,  to  which  he  relegated 
the  impurities  which  would  otherwise  have  encumbered  and  corrupted  his  poetry.    His  early  prose,  as 
everyone  knows,  is  a  rather  insipid  mixture  of  maudlin  sentimentality  and  sententious  moralizing  in  the 
worst  tradition  of  eighteenth-century  English  essayists .    But  he  also  occasionally  tried  to  write  in  the  vein 
of  eighteenth -century  English  humorists,  using  that  combination  of  "wit  and  love"  which,  according  to 
Thackeray,  was  the  essence  of  English  humor- -at  least  in  that  period.'*    For  the  entertainment  of  his 
"gentle  reader,  "5  he  thus  amiably  descanted  on  young  smokers  in  the  columns  of  the  Long  Island  Democrat: 
"There  is  something  very  majestic,  truly,  in  seeing  a  human  being  with  a  long  roll  of  black  leaves  held 
between  his  teeth,  and  projecting  eight  or  ten  inches  before  him.    It  has  been  said  by  some  satirical  indi- 
vidual that  a  fishing-rod  is  a  thing  with  a  hook  at  one  extremity,  and  a  fool  at  the  other:  it  may  with  much 
more  truth  be  affirmed,  that  a  segar,  generally,  has  a  smoky  fire  at  one  end,  and  a  conceited  spark  at  the 
other."0 

There  was  more  love  and  less  irony  in  his  considerations  on  loaferism  since  he  was  no  smoker  him- 
self but  an  inveterate  loafer:    "How  I  do  love  a  loafer!    Of  all  human  beings,  none  equals  your  genuine,  in- 
bred, unvarying  loafer.    Now  when  I  say  loafer,  I  mean  loafer;    not  a  fellow  who  is  lazy  by  fits  and  starts-- 
who  today  will  work  his  twelve  or  fourteen  hours,  and  to-morrow  doze  and  idle.    I  stand  up  for  no  such 
half-way  business  .    Give  me  your  calm,  steady,  philosophick  son  of  indolence;  one  that  doesn'  t  swerve 
from  the  beaten  track;  a  man  who  goes  the  undivided  beast.    To  such  an  one  I  doff  my  beaver. "7    In  such 
sketches  he  may  have  been  trying  to  emulate  Charles  Lamb  whose  essays  he  loved  and  praised,  referring 
in  the  Brooklyn  Eagle  to  "the  pleasant  Elia,  the  delicate-humored. "8    He  even  resorted  to  Lamb's  typical 
hall-mark,  the  hyphen,  in  order  to  underline,  as  it  were,  his  humorous  intention.    He  also  wrote  variations 
on  the  theme  of  "snoring  made  music":    "You  are  tired  and  long  for  rest.    You  get  into  the  confines  of  sleep, 
when  one  of  your  fellow  lodgers  begins  to  snore:    softly  at  first --a  Little  higher- -then  a  little  stronger,  till 
finally  it  resembles  the  grumbling  of  distant  thunder.  .  .  .    Presently  another  joins  in.    His  snoring  is  de- 
cidedly as  disagreeable  as  the  first,  but  his  style  is  totally  different --it  sounds  something  like  the  puffings 
of  a  steam  engine. ..."    On  this  occasion,  Whitman  even  coined  the  humorously  pedantic  or  pedantically 
humorous  noun  "snorification","  worthy  of  his  fellow  humorists  of  the  South-West. 

In  those  days  he  would  sometimes  play  jokes  on  his  readers,  as  when  having  no  idea  for  a  leader,  he 
expatiated  on  the  weather  with  a  dead-pan  face,  so  to  speak,  in  the  columns  of  the  New  York  Aurora  and 
triumphantly  concluded  his  disquisitions  with:    "Undoubtedly,  no  person  can  now  have  any  reason  for  doubt- 
ing that  the  weather  is,  by  custom,  a  legitimate  theme  for  persons  to  exercise  their  voices  (and  pens)  upon. 
[H]    The  thing  is  done--the  leader  is  prepared!    Laus  Deo! "10    No  wonder  he  praised  and  recommended  to 
his  readers  a  few  years  later  a  humorous  contemporary  of  the  Brooklyn  Eagle,  "the  John  Donkey,  a  new 
quarto  illustrated  journal  of  humor  and  drive -away-careism."    "It  is  rich  exceedingly!"  he  added;  "the  num- 
ber sent  us  has  more  broad  wit--the  real  coarse,  but  deep,  true  stuff,  like  Shakespere's  (without  any  in- 
delicacy, however)  own  natural  comic  humor--than  any  eight  pages  published,  that  we  have  seen."H 

It  is  hard  to  recognize  the  poet  of  Leaves  of  Grass  when  he  thus  dons  the  humorist'  s  motley,  but  this 
was  only  a  youthful  phrase.    As  Horace  Traubel  very  aptly  put  it:    "He  played  the  usual  juvenile  part  in 
literary  mimicry. "L2    He  indulged  in  this  harmless  pastime  especially  during  his  stay  in  New  Orleans,  when 
he  wrote  for  the  Crescent  a  series  of  sketches  supposedly  composed  by  Peter  Funk,  Esq. ,  in  which  he  poked 
fun  at  a  number  of  local  characters:   Timothy  Goujon,  seller  of  "a  certain  species  of  fish  ycleped  oysters,  " 
vending  "viva  voce  the  inanimate  quadrupeds  which  lay  piled  up  with  so  much  sang  froid  in  his  boat  beside 


88 

him";  Patrick  McDray,  the  "stout,  hardy-looking"  teamster  from  "the  swate  Isle"  across  the  Ocean;  and, 
above  all,  Daggerdraw  Bowieknife,  Esq. ,  "this  fearful  son  of  Mars,  "  whose  "shooting  irons  made  daylight 
shine  through. .  .no  less  than  six  hale,  hearty  men,  "  always  "loaded  down  to  the  guards  with  fashionable 
killing  tools  ."13    Like  a  true  humorist,  he  restrained  his  indignation  when  he  caricatured  that  cruel  and 
unscrupulous  Southern  killer  and  preferred  to  mock  rather  than  vituperate .    He  was  not  merely  imitating 
contemporary  humorists  or  following  a  fashion.    There  was  a  streak  of  humor  in  his  character,  which  he 
retained  to  the  end  of  his  life,  though  he  never  showed  it  again  in  his  prose -writings .    (Specimen  Days  is 
unrelievedly  serious  from  beginning  to  end.)    It  still  sometimes  cropped  up,  however,  in  his  conversations 
with  Traubel,  his  humorless  Boswell,  who  was  blissfully  unaware  of  it.    Another  friend  of  his  old  age, 
Thomas  B.  Harned,  though  terribly  humorless  too,  noted:    "He  had  a  sense  of  humor  of  a  quiet  kind,  "14 
for,  at  least  towards  the  end  of  his  life,  he  seems  to  have  been  quite  indifferent  to  humorists .    When  Traubel 
asked  him  if  he  had  seen  Bill  Nye  and  James  Whitcomb  Riley  when  they  lectured  in  Philadelphia,  he  answered: 
"As  a  general  thing,  I  don' t  enjoy  dialect  literature:  it'  s  rather  troublesome  to  handle:  yet  Jim  took  a  power- 
ful hold  on  me:  but  though  I  don' t  care  much  for  the  dialect  writers  myself  I  acknowledge  their  validity, 

valUe "15     On  another  occasion  he  was  even  less  sympathetic.    To  a  visitor  who  asked  him  what  he  knew 

about  Bill  Nye  he  answered:    "Nothing- -I  have  never  met  him.    I  have  very  little  liking  for  deliberate  wits-- 
for  men  who  start  out,  with  makce  prepense  to  be  funny--just  as  I  should  distrust  deliberate  pathos."16 

In  short,  he  disapproved  of  humor  for  humor'  s  sake- -of  humor  as  sheer  fun- -and  that  is  probably  why 
he  never  took  to  Mark  Twain.    Like  most  of  his  contemporaries,  he  regarded  him  as  a  mere  clown:    "I 
think  he  mainly  misses  fire, "  he  said.    "He  might  have  been  something,  he  comes  near  to  being  something: 
but  he  never  arrives .  "17   On  the  contrary,  Whitman  loved  and  revered  Dickens  and  Carlyle  who  were  not 
mere  entertainers  but  used  humor  as  a  means  to  an  end--the  (indirect--a  very  Whitmanian  term)  expression 
of  their  reactions  to  men  and  things  and  even  of  their  Weltanschauung .   In  their  works,  humor  is  the  figure 
in  the  carpet,  not  the  whole  carpet.    Whitman  reviewed  several  of  Dickens'  s  books  and  always  praised  them. 
He  never  mentioned  his  humor  but  concluded  one  of  his  reviews  with  this  tribute:    "I  cannot  lose  the  oppor- 
tunity of  saying  how  much  I  love  and  esteem  him  for  what  he  has  taught  me  through  his  writings --and  for  the 
genial  influence  [italics  minej  that  these  writings  spread  around  them  wherever  they  go. "18    As  to  Carlyle, 
he  praised  the  "strange  wild  way"  of  Sartor  Resartus    and  its  "fiery  breath  and  profundity  of  meaning- -when 
you  delve  them  out"  and  the  "rapt,  weird,  (grotesque?)  style"  of  Heroes  and  Hero -Worship --though  he  con- 
fessed:   "We  would  have  preferred  to  get  the  thoughts  of  this  truly  good  thinker,  in  a  plainer  and  more  cus- 
tomary garb.    No  great  writer  achieves  any  thing  worthy  of  him,  by  inventing  merely  a  new  style. "1° 

Yet  this  is  precisely  what  he  did  himself  when  he  suddenly  metamorphosed  from  a  mediocre  journalist 
into  a  great  poet  in  the  1850'  s  .    He  did  not  hesitate  to  be  quaint,  "weird  (grotesque?)."    Humor--though  he 
never  used  the  word--was  part  of  his  design  after  all,  one  of  the  figures  in  the  carpet  of  Leaves  of  Grass . 
For  one  thing,  he  was  undeniably  a  humorist  in  the  eighteenth-century  sense  of  the  term;  he  boldly  flung  his 
eccentricity  in  the  face  of  the  world.    Whoever  thought  before  him  of  writing  about  grass  (instead  of  flowers) 
and  calling  it  poetry?   It  was  very  much  the  same  kind  of  undertaking  as  writing  about  the  weather  in  the 
New  York  Aurora  and  calling  it  a  leader.    What  a  strange  idea,  too,  to  call  the  finished  product  Leaves  of 
Grass  and  to  print  it  without  the  author'  s  name  or  a  pseudonym  on  the  title  page!  and  to  hide  his  name  in 
the  middle  of  a  poem!  and  to  write  in  a  medium  which  was  neither  prose  nor  verse!  and  to  give  no  titles  to 
the  separate  (?)  poems!    This  was  clearly  a  hoax,  a  mystification  rather  than  a  serious  book  of  poetry--the 
work  of  a  madman,  in  short,  as  some  of  the  reviewers  concluded  in  1855.    They  were  right  in  a  way.   They 
were  more  alive  than  we  are,  anyway,  to  the  scandalous  novelty  of  the  book--and  to  its  humorous  character. 

Humor,  an  elusive  quality  which  defies  definition,  consists  mostly  in  discovering,  expressing  or  ap- 
preciating ludicrous  or  absurdly  incongruous  elements  in  ideas  or  situations  like  that  of  a  supposedly  om- 
niscient adult  being  stumped  by  the  very  simple  question  of  a  child  about  one  of  the  most  common  things  in 
the  world,  grass.  Yet  on  it  Leaves  of  Grass  is  built,  since  the  major  part  of  the  book  attempts  answering 
(indirectly)  the  child's  question:  "What  is  the  grass?"  This  awkward  situation,  besides,  implies  the  true 
humorist'  s  sense  of  the  relativity  of  all  values:  What  is  important?  What  is  not?  No  one  can  tell.  Grass 
soon  appears  as  a  much  more  important  thing  than  is  generally  thought.  Established  religions,  on  the  con- 
trary, are  shown  to  be  much  less  important  than  their  members  believed: 

"Magnifying  and  applying  come  I, 

Outbidding  at  the  start  the  old  cautious  hucksters  [a  rather  irreverent  way  of  calling  prophets  and 

founders  of  religions !  ] 
Taking  myself  the  exact  dimension  of  Jehovah.  . . 
In  my  portfolio  placing  Manito  loose,  Allah  on  a  leaf,  the  crucifix  engraved, 


89 

With  Odin  and  the  hideous -faced  Mexitli  and  every  idol  and  image, 

Taking  them  all  for  what  they  are  and  not  a  cent  more. . . 

(They  bore  mites  as  for  unfledg'd  birds  who  have  now  to  rise  and  fly  and  sing  for  themselves, ). 

Time  and  space  are  also  mere  illusions  in  his  eyes:    "Space  and  Time!  now  I  see  it  is  true,  what  I  guess 'd 
at.  . .  ."21    Here  Whitman  joins  hands  with  Mark  Twain  in  The  Mysterious  Stranger:    "It  was  wonderful,  the 
mastery  Satan  had  over  time  and  distance.    For  him  they  did  not  exist.    He  called  them  human  inventions, 
and  said  they  were  artificialities  .  "22    Humor  thus  becomes  "a  cosmic  game  between  the  real  world  and  the 
ideal  world.    [It  has]  the  unity  that  comes  from  recognized  lack  of  unity, "  which  is  how  Havelock  Ellis  de- 
fined it  with  reference  to  Heine  in  The  New  Spirit.    This  leads  to  cosmic  visions  in  which  dimensions  have 
ceased  to  matter:    "My  ties  and  ballasts  leave  me,  my  elbows  rest  in  sea -gaps,  /  I  skirt  sierras,  my  palms 
cover  continents ....  "23    The  poet  is  turned  into  a  sort  of  mystical  Paul  Bunyan.    Lyric  poetry  and  the  tall 
tale  become  almost  identical  in  form --if  not  in  tone: 

What  widens  within  you  Walt  Whitman? 

What  waves  and  soil  exuding? 

What  climes?. . . 

What  rivers  are  these?    What  forests  and  fruits  are  these? 

What  are  the  mountains  call'  d  that  rise  so  high  in  the  mists? . .  . 

Within  me  latitude  widens,  longitude  lengthens, 24 

boasts  the  poet.    Now  this  is  almost  what  Huckleberry  Finn  heard  the  drunken  raftsman  shout  out  in  the 
middle  of  the  Mississippi:    "Don' t  attempt  to  look  at  me  with  the  naked  eye,  gentlemen!    When  I'  m  playful 
I  use  the  meridians  of  longitude  and  parallels  of  latitude  for  a  seine  and  drag  the  Atlantic  Ocean  for  whales! 
I  scratch  my  head  with  the  lightning  and  purr  myself  to  sleep  with  the  thunder.  .  .  ."25   At  such  times,  lyric 
poetry  and  humor  lead  to--or  come  from--the  same  fundamental  exuberance.    In  either  case,  just  as  the 
frontier  between  the  real  world  and  the  ideal  world  disappears,  the  distinctions  between  the  various  layers 
of  language  are  abolished.    The  vernacular  becomes  as  legitimate  as  literary  terms:    "Earth!  you  seem  to 
look  for  something  at  my  hands,  /  Say,  old  top -knot,  what  do  you  want?"  (italics  mine)26    Form  also  ceases 
to  matter.  Sprawling  formlessness  becomes  the  rule. 

As  Kierkegaard  noted,  humour--like  realism--frequently  results  in  prolixity- -not  surprising,  for 
humor  and  realism  are  very  closely  connected.    Bergson  defined  "humor"  in  contradistinction  with  irony  as 
consisting  in  minutely  and  meticulously  describing  things  as  they  are  while  affecting  to  believe  that  they  are 
as  they  should  be  (i.e.,  in  describing  the  real  as  if  it  were  ideal). 27     "Describing  things  as  they  are"  is 
precisely  the  essence  of  realism.    So  humorists  often  lovingly  describe  the  physical  world,  as  Mark  Twain 
does  in  particular  in  some  parts  of  Huckleberry  Finn:    "The  sun  was  up  so  high  when  I  waked  that  I  judged  it 
was  after  eight  o'  clock.    I  laid  there  in  the  grass  [a  typical  Whitmanian  posture]  and  the  cool  shade,  think- 
ing about  things ....    I  could  see  the  sun  out  at  one  or  two  holes,  but  mostly  it  was  big  trees  all  about  and 
gloomy  in  there  amongst  them.    There  was  freckled  places  on  the  ground  where  the  light  sifted  down  through 
the  leaves,  and  the  freckled  places  swapped  about  a  little,  showing  there  was  a  little  breeze  up  there. "28 
Whitman'  s  eye  was  attracted  by  a  similar  scene,  and  he  rendered  it  more  concisely  (but  in  one  of  his  most 
prolix  poems):    "The  play  of  shine  and  shade  on  the  trees  as  the  supple  boughs  wag. . .  ."29   On  one  occasion, 
his  humor  becomes  almost  uproarious  when  in  his  "Song  of  the  Exposition"  he  treats  the  Muse  with  utter  dis- 
respect^ and  installs  her  in  the  middle  of  the  kitchen  ware  at  the  fortieth  Annual  Exhibition  in  New  York 
City- -in  much  the  same  spirit  as  Mark  Twain  treats  the  "Old  Masters"  in  Innocents  Abroad.     At  other  times 
his  humor  combines  with  irony  and  bitter  invective  (the  kind  of  invective  he  had  secretly  indulged  in  in  The 
Eighteenth  Presidency).    He  then  gives  full  vent  to  his  indignation  and  despair  as  in  "A  Boston  Ballad"  and, 
above  all,  in  "Respondez."    He  did  not  like  this  mood,  however,  and  dropped  "Respondez"  in  1881,  keeping 
"A  Boston  Ballad"  only  on  his  friend  Trowbridge'  s  insistence. 

He  had  the  true  humorist'  s  reluctance  fully  to  commit  himself  and  preferred  to  stand  "Apart  from  the 
pulling  and  hauling. .  .amused,  complacent,  compassionating,  idle,  unitary. . . .    Both  in  and  out  of  the  game 
and  watching  and  wondering  at  it "31 --an  excellent  description  of  the  humorist'  s  sympathetic  and  yet  detached 
attitude  to  his  subject,  involving  self-complacency  and  narcissism,  as  Freud  has  pointed  out:    "L'humour  a 
non  seulement  quelque  chose  de  liberateur,  analogue  en  cela  a  1' esprit  et  au  comique,  mais  encore  quelque 

chose  de  sublime  et  d'  SlevS Le  sublime  tient  evidemment  au  triomphe  du  narcissisme,  a  l'invulner- 

abilitS  du  moi  qui  s'affirme  victorieusement."32 


90 

It  is  inevitable  therefore  that  we  should  find  traces  of  humor  in  "Song  of  Myself",  a  "Me  Myself"  full 
of  contradictions,  torn  between  centripetal  and  centrifugal  forces,  tortured  by  the  incongruous  contrasts  of 
the  human  condition,  both  mortal  and  immortal,  finite  and  infinite,  "one's-self"  and  "en-masse,  "--very 
much  tempted  at  times  to  reach  Mark  Twain'  s  despairing  (and  consoling)  conclusion  at  the  end  of  The  Mys- 
terious  Stranger:    "Life  itself  is  only  a  vision,  a  dream. "33   In  a  way,  Whitman  thus  attained  that  higher 
form  of  humor  which  Mark  Twain  defined  in  the  following  terms  in  the  same  book:    "The  multitude  see  the 
comic  side  of  a  thousand  low-grade  and  trivial  things --incongruities,  mainly;  grotesqueries ,  absurdities, 
evokers  of  the  horselaugh.    The  ten  thousand  high-grade  comicalities  which  exist  in  the  world  are  sealed  to 
their  dull  vision.  "34   Among  them  is  man'  s  sense  of  his  superiority  over  animals  .    Both  Whitman  and  Mark 
Twain  indignantly  denied  it: 

They  do  not  sweat  or  whine  about  their  condition, 

They  do  not  lie  awake  in  the  dark  and  weep  for  their  sins, 

They  do  not  make  me  sick  discussing  their  duty  to  God, 

Not  one  is  dissatisfied,  not  one  is  demented  with  the  mania  of  owning  things, 

Not  one  kneels  to  another,  nor  to  his  kind  that  lived  thousands  of  years  ago, 

Not  one  is  respectable  or  unhappy  over  the  whole  earth. 35 

"It  is  not  pleasant,  "  says  Satan  in  The  Mysterious  Stranger,  "to  hear  you  libel  the  higher  animals  by 
attributing  to  them  dispositions  which  they  are  free  from,  and  which  are  found  nowhere  but  in  the  human 
heart.    None. .  .is  tainted  with  the  disease  called  the  Moral  Sense. "36   But,  whereas  at  this  point  Mark 
Twain  invites  us  to  burst  out  laughing  at  man'  s  stupidity,  Whitman  does  no  such  thing.    He  was  saved  from 
this  "descendentalism,  "  as  Carlyle  would  have  called  it,  by  his  transcendentalism.    Man  in  his  poetry  is 
not  something  to  be  laughed  at,  but,  on  the  contrary,  a  miracle  to  be  wondered  at.    True,  we  are  "little 
plentiful  mannikins  skipping  around  in  [turtleneck]  collars  and  tail'd  coats  [or  pull-overs]  ,  "  but  we  "are 
positively  not  worms  or  fleas. "37   in  Whitman's  eyes,  man  is  not  a  ludicrous  and  despicable  biped,  but  an 
unfathomable  and  ungraspable  mystery,  "not  contain' d  between  his  hat  and  boots "38  but  closely  related  to 
Mayakovsky'  s  "Cloud  in  trousers  . "   A  lyric  poet'  s  sense  of  humor  cannot  be  quite  the  same  as  that  of  a 
prose-writer  and  a  humorist,  there  being  as  many  kinds  of  humor  as  there  are  shades  of  color  in  the  rain- 
bow. _,       _      ,  _       . 

The   Sorbonne,    Paris 


1  Jesse  Bier,  The  Rise  and  Fall  of  American  Humor  (New  York:  Holt,  Rinehart  and  Winston,   1968),  p.  386. 

2  Richard  Chase,  Walt  Whitman  Reconsidered  (New  York:  William  Sloane,   1955),  p.  59. 

3  "Farce  is  an  extreme  form  of  lyricism  and  the  heroic  expression  of  the  joy  of  life. "    Quoted  by  Jean- 
Louis  Barrault  in  "Comment  fut  cre£  le  Soulier  de  Satin, "  Figaro  Litteraire,  VIII,  n°  387,  Sept.  19,   1953. 

4  "Humour  is  wit  and  love."    Chapter  entitled  "Charity  and  Humour"  in  W.  M.  Thackeray,  The  English 
Humourists  of  the  Eighteenth  Century,   1853,  p.  715. 

5  ". .  .gentle  reader,  (we  like  that  time-honoured  phrase!). ..."  in  "Philosophy  of  Ferries"  (1847)  in  Emory 
Holloway,  ed.,  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose  of  Walt  Whitman  (New  York:  Peter  Smith,   1932),  I,  p.  168. 

6  "Sun-Down  Papers,"  no  5  (1840);  ibid.,  p.  33.  7    "Sun-Down  Papers,"  no  9,  ibid.,  p.  44. 

8  Ibid.,  p.  133. 

9  Joseph  Jay  Rubin  and  Charles  H.  Brown,  eds . ,  Walt  Whitman  of  the  New  York  Aurora  (State  College,  Pa.: 
Bald  Eagle  Press,   1950),  p.  52.    From  the  New  York  Aurora,  April  18,   1842. 

10  "How  to  write  a  leader,  "  ibid. ,  p.  121 . 

11  Cleveland  Rodgers  and  John  Black,  eds.,  The  Gathering  of  the  Forces  (New  York:  Putnam,   1920),  II, 
pp.  272-273. 

12  Horace  Traubel  in  his  introduction  to  Walt  Whitman'  s  American  Primer  (Boston:  Small,  Maynard  and 
Co.,  1906),  p.  vi. 

13  "Sketches  of  the  sidewalks  and  levees;  with  glimpses  into  the  New  Orleans  Bar  (Rooms),  "  from  the  Daily 
Crescent,  March-April,   1848,  in  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose  of  Walt  Whitman,  I,  pp.  199-216. 

14  Thomas  B.  Harned,  Memoirs ,  no.  14,  Supplement  1  of  American  Transcendental  Quarterly,  pp.  36-37, 
Spring,  1972. 

15  Horace  Traubel,  With  Walt  Whitman  in  Camden,  ed.  Sculley  Bradley  (Philadelphia:    University  of 
Pennsylvania  Press,   1953),  IV,  pp.  207-208. 

16  Horace  Traubel,  With  Walt  Whitman  in  Camden  (Carbondale,  111.:    Southern  Illinois  University  Press, 
1964),  V,  p.  456.  17   Ibid.,  IV,  208. 


91 

18  Emory  Hollo  way,  ed.,  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose  of  Walt  Whitman,  I,  72. 

19  Gathering  of  the  Forces ,  II,  290-291  (reprinted  from  the  Brooklyn  Eagle,  Oct.  17,   1846). 

20  Walt  Whitman,  Leaves  of  Grass,  Comprehensive  Reader's  Edition,  ed.  Harold  W.  Blodgett  and  Sculley 
Bradley  (New  York:  W.  W.  Norton,  1965),  "Song  of  Myself,  "  par.  41,  lines  1026-1035,  p.  75.  All  subse- 
quent references  to  Leaves  of  Grass  will  be  to  this  edition  designated  as  L  of  G. 

21  "Song  of  Myself,  "  par.  33,   1.  710,  L  of  G,  p.  61. 

22  The  Mysterious  Stranger,  Signet  Edition,  chapter  IX,  p.  235. 

23  "Song  of  Myself ,"  par .  33,  lines  714-715,  L  of  G,  p.  61. 

24  "Salut  au  Monde,  "  lines  5-14,  L  of  G,  p.  137. 

25  Huckleberry  Finn,  chapter  XVI  in  the  Portable  Mark  Twain,   ed .  Bernard  De  Voto,  pp.  294-295. 

26  "Song  of  Myself ,"  par .  40,  lines  989-990,  L  of  G,  p.  73. 

27  Henri  Bergson,  LeRire,   1900,  p.  130-131.         28    Huckleberry  Finn,  chapter  VIII,  p.  234. 

29  "Song  of  Myself ,"  par .  2,  line  17,  L  of  G,  p.  30. 

30  See  especially  the  original  text  of  the  1871  ed.,  quoted  by  Emory  Holloway  in  the  Inclusive  Edition  of 
Lof  G,  p.  619.  31    "Song  of  Myself ,  "  par.  4,  lines  75-79,  L  of  G,  p.  32. 

32    Quoted  by  Andrfi  Breton  in  his  introduction  to  his  Anthologie  de  1'  Humour  Noir  (Paris:  Sagittaire,   1940), 
p.  12.    I  have  been  unable  to  locate  this  passage  in  Freud'  s  Wit  and  Its  Relation  to  the  Unconscious,  from 
which  it  must  have  been  borrowed.    Here  is  the  translation  of  the  passage:    "Humor  has  not  only  a  liberating 
influence --it  resembles  wit  and  the  comic  in  this  respect --but  also  something  sublime  and  lofty. .  . .    The 
sublime  evidently  results  from  the  triumph  of  narcissism,  the  invulnerability  of  the  ego  which  asserts  itself 
victoriously."  33   The  Mysterious  Stranger,  Signet  Ed.,  p.  252.  34    Ibid.,  p.  247. 

35  "Song  of  Myself ,"  par .  32,  lines  686-691,  L  of  G,  p.  60. 

36  The  Mysterious  Stranger,  Signet  Ed.,  p.  195.    See  also  pp.  192-193. 

37  "Song  of  Myself ,  "  par .  42,  lines  1078-1079,   L  of  G;  p.  77. 

38  "Song  of  Myself,  "  par.  7,  line  133,  L  of  G,  p.  35.  PTJNS  AND  EQUIVO- 
CATION IN  MELVILLE'S  THE  CONFIDENCE  MAN  John  g.  blair 

The  Confidence -Man,  like  Henry  James'  s  The  Turn  of  the  Screw,  is  one  of  those  rare  and  disturbing 
works  which  are  so  radically  couched  in  ambiguity  as  to  embarrass  habitual  approaches  to  literary  criticism. 
A  critic  who  employs  his  usual  tools  in  an  attempt  to  resolve  the  ambiguities  is  likely  to  reveal  more  about 
himself  than  about  the  text.    As  in  the  case  of  The  Turn  of  the  Screw,  the  considerable  body  of  critical  com- 
mentary on  Melville'  s  work  amassed  over  the  last  quarter  of  a  century  has  proved  substantially  inconclu- 
sive.!  The  minority  of  critics  who,  bike  John  Cawelti,2  acknowledge  the  impenetrable  ambiguity  of  the  work, 
reappear  steadily  as  whipping  boys  for  the  majority  who  fear  that  such  an  admission  would  diminish  its 
literary  value.    The  purpose  of  this  article  is  to  show  how  Melville'  s  radical  ambiguity  serves  a  legitimate, 
though  highly  specialized,  literary  purpose. 

While  drawing  on  evidence  already  elaborated  in  studies  based  on  analysis  of  characters  and  narrative 
structures,  my  approach  is  through  style  and  in  particular  one  stylistic  device  which  illustrates  Melville's 
conscious  elaboration  of  ambiguity- -the  pun.    My  analysis  accords  in  general  with  that  of  the  best  stylistic 
analysis  yet  to  appear,  that  of  R.  W.  B.  Lewis, 3  though  I  draw  somewhat  different  conclusions  as  to  the  im- 
plications of  this  ambiguity.    Lewis'  key  description  of  the  style  as  "self-cancelling"  needs  some  modifica- 
tion.   What  is  self-cancelling  is  the  narration.    Seymour  Chatman  in  his  recent  study  of  Henry  James'  s  later 
style  concludes  that  the  touchstone  adjective  it  deserves  is  "intangible ".4   A  comparably  complete  study  of 
Melville'  s  in  The  Confidence -Man  would  turn  about  the  adjective  "equivocal".    The  notion  of  equivocation  is 
particularly  useful  for  me  because  of  its  secondary  association  with  puns,  which,  in  this  work,  function 
rather  differently  than  those  familiar  to  readers  of  Moby  Dick .    There  Ishmael  exhibits  a  rather  elephantine 
sense  of  humor,  as  when  he  closes  Chapter  II  with  a  reference  to  weeping  orphans  and  a  play  on  "blubbering". 
In  The  Confidence -Man  the  puns  are  less  boldly  humorous  than  ominously  thematic.    They  unite  in  compact 
verbal  play  the  conflicting  interpretations  of  characters  and  events  which  constitute  the  essential  ambiguity 
of  the  whole. 

Melville'  s  puns  fall  into  two  major  types,  which  reflect  the  division  of  the  work  into  two  roughly  equal 
halves  following  the  two  aspects  of  confidence  that  are  dominantly  at  stake.    The  first  half  of  the  novel  por- 
trays a  series  of  short  encounters  between  apparent  confidence  men  in  the  criminal  sense  and  potential  victims, 


92 
who,  depending  on  their  philosophical  or  personal  outlooks,  either  do  or  do  not  trust  their  opportuners.   In 
no  case  does  the  narrator  supply  sufficient  evidence  for  the  reader  to  decide  whether  the  varying  judgments 
of  these  characters  are  accurate  or  not .    The  narration  remains  closed  in  on  itself,  to  be  resolved  only 
when  a  reader  or  a  critic  goes  beyond  the  evidence  presented . 

The  particular  sense  of  "pun"  relevant  to  this  first  half  is  developed  in  the  encounter  between  the 
Missourian  Pitch  and  the  Philosophical  Intelligence  Officer  who  tries  to  restore  his  confidence  in  boys .  The 
PIO  man  proposes  that  boys  are  to  men  as  baby  teeth  are  to  adult  teeth.    Seen  in  such  a  light,  the  faults  of 
a  boy  appear  as  temporarily  waiting  to  be  replaced  by  permanent  and  sound  characteristics .    Pitch  there- 
upon accuses  the  PIO  man  of  being  a  "punster":    '"Yes,  you  pun  with  ideas  as  another  man  may  with  words  ." 
Pitch  introduces  this  comparison  of  his  own  between  verbal  punning  and  argumentation  by  analogy  in  an  at- 
tempt to  discredit  or  at  least  discomfit  the  PIO  man.    As  punning  is  a  relatively  frivolous  and  playful  use  of 
language,  so  argument  from  analogy  seems  shallow  and  inconclusive  from  the  point  of  view  of  logic. 

In  the  end  Pitch  gives  in,  not  because  his  analogies  uncomplimentary  to  boyhood  are  logically  inferior 
to  those  of  his  opponent  but  because  the  PIO  man  purports  to  base  his  judgments  on  a  "scientific"  study  of 
boys .    Despite  the  admiration  of  numerous  critics  who  find  him  a  source  of  positive  values  in  the  work,  6 
Pitch  himself  does  not  escape  the  force  of  his  own  condemnation  of  punster -analogists .    Pitch  reverts  to  his 
earlier  opinions  about  boyhood  under  the  influence  of  the  noxious  atmosphere  of  the  swamps  around  Cairo, 
Illinois .    But  the  reader  cannot  even  find  sufficient  evidence  to  trust  Pitch'  s  conviction  that  he  has  been 
duped.    His  linking  the  PIO  man  and  the  Devil,  by  analogy,  is  undercut  by  the  narrator'  s  reiteration  of 
Pitch'  s  original  criticism  of  analogical  reasoning:    "The  doctrine  of  analogies  recurs  .    Fallacious  enough 
doctrine  when  wielded  against  one'  s  prejudices,  but  in  corroboration  of  cherished  suspicions  not  without 
likelihood"  (148).    Thus  the  doctrine  of  analogies  cuts  both  ways.    Like  the  pun,  analogy  in  this  work  sets 
up  a  circle  of  related  but  contradictory  notions  that  can  be  broken  only  by  prior  opinions  held  by  either 
character  or  reader.    It  would  miss  Melville'  s  point  to  follow  Paul  Brodtkorb'  s  suggestion  that  "Many  of 
his  [the  PIO  man's]  analogies,  as  analogies,  are  quite  true."'    Melville  is  demonstrating  that  analogies 
have  no  more  truth  value  than  puns,  but  only  relative  convincingness  which  responds  primarily  to  opinions 
held  independently  of  the  analogy .    The  pun  has  grown  beyond  triviality  into  a  weapon  exemplifying  the 
thematic  core  of  the  work . 

Puns  which  turn  around  such  essential  issues  of  confidence  appear  in  virtually  every  encounter  up  to 
the  arrival  of  the  cosmopolitan  at  the  half-way  point.    Their  force  depends  on  the  reader's  perception  of 
ambiguities  of  situation  reflected  in  the  word  play.    A  good  example  occurs  in  the  title  of  Chapter  XVI:    "A 
Sick  Man,  After  Some  Impatience,  Is  Induced  To  Become  A  Patient"  (86).    The  sick  man's  impatience  is 
dual:    Since  he  is  for  some  time  impatient  with  the  Herb-Doctor'  s  proposals,  he  remains  in  the  state  of  not 
being  a  patient,  hence  "impatient."    More  important  are  the  implications  of  the  play  on  "patient".    By  ac- 
cepting the  Herb -Doctor'  s  medicine,  the  sick  man  formally  becomes  a  patient,  but  he  contracts  also  a  com- 
mitment to  patience  in  a  metaphysical  sense.    The  Herb-Doctor  offers  the  sick  man  hope  in  direct  propor- 
tional exchange  for  whatever  confidence  the  latter  places  in  the  Omni-Balsamic  Reinvigorator .    But  the 
patient  must  be  patient  indeed,  assigning  no  limits  to  the  time  he  is  willing  to  wait  for  results.    The  Herb- 
Doctor  offers  a  test  for  the  legitimacy  of  his  medicines  drawn  from  Pauline  Christianity:    '"  Prove  all  the 
vials;  trust  those  which  are  true'  "  (93)  1  Thessalonians  5:21.    The  test,  whether  applied  to  medicine  or 
metaphysics,  is  hollow  because  it  can  be  subject  to  no  viable  experiment.    One  is  to  wait  patiently,  forever 
if  necessary,  for  the  medicine  to  work;  thus  there  is  no  real  basis  on  which  one  could  ever  disprove  any  of 
the  vials . 

The  key  to  becoming  patient  in  both  senses  of  the  word  is  the  degree  of  confidence  the  sick  man  is 
willing  to  place  in  the  remedy  offered  him.    The  reader'  s  situation  is  similar  in  that  he  can  interpret  the 
actions  presented  to  him  only  on  the  basis  of  the  confidence  or  lack  of  it  he  imports  from  his  life  outside 
the  text.    The  reader  can,  of  course,  criticize  the  Herb-Doctor  for  offering  a  vacuous  test  for  the  medi- 
cines, and  he  can  recognize  the  dubious  logic  offered  along  with  the  pills .    One  of  the  Doctor'  s  syllogisms, 
for  example,  runs  as  follows:   Nature  is  health;  health  is  good.    Nature  cannot  work  ill.    As  Pitch  points 
out  a  few  chapters  later,  there  is  little  evidence  to  accept  the  blanket  premise  that  nature  is  health.    Even 
if  one  accepts  it,  the  proffered  conclusion  that  "nature  cannot  work  ill"  is  hardly  equivalent  to  the  desired 
conclusion  that  "nature  in  the  form  of  this  remedy  will  produce  a  cure."   Nonetheless  the  reader  has  in- 
sufficient evidence  for  evaluating  the  literary  encounter  he  witnesses .    The  Herb -Doctor  may  or  may  not 


93 
be  a  con  man,  and  Melville'  s  punning  on  the  notion  of  "patience"  points  the  reader  to  the  core  of  his  problem 
of  interpretation. 

Once  the  reader  has  caught  on  to  the  game,  he  begins  seeing  the  possibility  of  puns  turning  on  the  is- 
sue of  confidence  where  none  is  necessarily  present.    Black  Guinea,  for  example,  says,   '"Dis  poor  ole 
darkie  is  werry  well  wordy  of  all  you  kind  ge'  mmen'  s  kind  confidence'  "  (13).    Though  the  reader'  s  first 
impulse  may  be  to  take  the  dialect  spelling  "wordy"  as  "worthy,  "  a  moment'  s  suspicion  is  enough  to  sug- 
gest that  "wordy"  might  be  taken  literally  as  well.    Similarly,  the  idiom  "more  or  less"  dissolves  into  two 
possibilities  when  the  man  with  the  weed  appeals  to  Henry  Roberts'  confidence  in  the  following  manner: 
"Allow  me  to  ask,  whether  the  circumstance  of  one  man,  however  humble,  referring  for  a  character  to 
another  man,  however  afflicted,  does  not  argue  more  or  less  of  moral  worth  in  the  latter?"  (19).    Yes, 
more  or  less .    The  reader  is  left  to  his  own  devices  to  determine  which.    Likewise  the  title  to  Chapter  IX 
invites  the  perception  of  a  pun  when  "Two  Business  Men  Transact  A  Little  Business ."    Such  a  title  may  seem 
unnecessarily  redundant  unless  the  second  "business"  is  taken  in  the  sense  of  "funny  business, "  though  no 
certainty  is  possible. 

Also,  in  this  first  half  of  the  work  are  occasional  puns  carrying  merely  local  significance  as  aids  to 
characterization.    The  sophomoric  collegian  in  Chapter  IX,  for  instance,  dramatizes  his  bravado  and  un- 
concern for  others  by  punning  a  less  than  noble  sentiment.    The  stock  transfer  agent  asks  if  the  young  man 
has  helped  the  man  with  a  weed:    "That  unfortunate  man,  did  you  relieve  him  at  all?"    Whereupon  the  youth 
callously  replies:    "Let  the  unfortunate  man  relieve  himself "8  (53). 

The  circularity  of  the  puns  which  dominate  the  first  half  of  the  work  reflect,  on  the  level  of  verbal 
play,  the  narrator's  global  strategy  of  ambiguity.    This  narrator  could  function  quite  adequately  as  a  be- 
haviorist  psychologist  trained  to  report  only  publicly  observable  actions .    His  few  imputations  of  motive  to 
characters  are  reduced  to  equivocation  by  an  impressive  variety  of  rhetorical  devices .    Even  the  occasional 
direct  assertion  is  so  compromised  by  the  narrative  context  as  to  eliminate  its  value  as  an  interpretation  of 
the  motivations  of  the  characters.    For  example,  the  narrator  describes  the  stock  transfer  agent  as  "chanc- 
ing" (61)  to  expose  the  lettering  on  his  stock  book  when  he  sets  it  down  between  himself  and  Henry  Roberts . 
When  the  merchant  scrupulously  avoids  looking  at  the  lettering,  the  stock  agent  walks  off  leaving  his  book 
behind.    Chance  seems  an  insufficient  explanation  for  the  broker's  actions,  but  once  again  the  reader  is 
left  to  intuit  the  true  motives  for  himself. 

The  narrator's  all-pervasive  strategy  of  ambiguity  leaves  the  reader  with  only  two  basic  alternatives. 
He  can  go  beyond  the  evidence  presented  in  one  direction  or  the  other,  thereby  deciding  that  confidence  men 
are  or  are  not  at  work  and  simultaneously  opening  himself  to  the  same  criticism  applied  to  the  PIO  man  and 
Pitch,  namely  that  of  deciding  the  issue  on  opinion  rather  than  evidence.    Or  he  can  Limit  himself  to  the  evi- 
dence presented  and  make  no  decision  at  all.    The  implications  of  this  latter  response  we  shall  see  shortly. 
What  must  be  insisted  on  at  this  point  is  that  no  trustworthy  authority  can  make  up  the  reader'  s  mind, 
neither  the  narrator  nor  any  of  his  characters .    This  judgment  runs  counter  to  the  increasing  tendency 
among  critics  to  find  the  one-legged  cynic  a  satisfactory  authority  to  resolve  the  issues .    Among  others, 
Paul  Brodtkorb  describes  him  as  "more  than  adequately  accurate  about  what  is  going  on  around  him. "9  Yet 
this  one-legged  cynic  is  one  of  the  few  characters  who  can  be  seen  to  make  a  mistake.    When  Black  Guinea 
lists  those  gentlemen  who  could  serve  as  his  references,  the  cynic  huffs:    "Don' t  believe  there'  s  a  soul  of 
them  abroad"  (13).    Subsequent  events  prove  him  wrong,  even  though  confusion  remains  as  to  the  identifi- 
cation of  Black  Guinea'  s  labels  with  the  characters  who  appear  later.  10   The  only  other  possibility  is  that 
the  cynic  is  literally  correct  because  the  apparent  confidence  men  have  bodies  but  no  souls,  in  which  case 
we  are  back  in  the  world  of  the  submerged  and  cryptic  pun  that  the  reader  must  resolve,  if  at  all,  on  the 
basis  of  his  own  life  confidences  external  to  the  text.    The  most  that  Melville  will  provide  is  grounds  for 
suspicion. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  novel,  signalled  by  the  entry  of  the  cosmopolitan,  Frank  Goodman,  the  dom- 
inant nature  of  the  puns  employed  changes  in  accordance  with  the  different  aspect  of  confidence  that  is  at 
stake.    The  name  of  the  game  changes  to  a  higher  level  of  abstraction,  with  the  cosmopolitan  as  a  spokes- 
man for  confidence  as  a  metaphysical  entity.    If  the  reader  has  chosen  to  resolve  the  equivocations  of  the 
first  half,  he  has  already  committed  his  confidence  to  one  view  of  life  or  another,  like  the  characters  who 
were  confronted  with  apparent  confidence  men.    In  that  literal  sense,  then,  such  a  reader  has  become  a 


94 

"confidence"  man.    In  whatever  a  man  places  his  confidence,  on  this  earth,  he  must  go  beyond  the  evidence 
available.    Confidence,  then,  can  be  isolated  as  an  entity  to  be  tested  in  and  of  itself  through  the  person  of 
Frank  Goodman.    In  the  second  half  of  the  work,  accordingly,  the  nature  of  the  puns  changes  .    They  are 
less  frequent  and  they  no  longer  play  between  word  and  word,  but  between  word  and  action.    The  chief  is- 
sue is  the  extent  to  which  confidence  can  make  contact  with  this  world .    The  practical  philosopher  Egbert 
makes  the  problem  explicit  when  he  ponders  the  nature  of  Frank  Goodman  after  their  experiment  in  role- 
playing:    "With  these  words  and  a  grand  scorn  the  cosmopolitan  turned  on  his  heel,  leaving  his  companion 
at  a  loss  to  determine  where  exactly  the  fictitious  character  had  been  dropped,  and  the  real  one,  if  any  re- 
sumed" (253).    The  last  half  of  the  work  with  its  multiple  ventriloquisms  turns  on  determining  the  real 
presence,  if  any,  of  the  cosmopolitan  in  this  world. 

The  cosmopolitan  defines  the  punning  of  idea  and  action  as  "practical  punning."    His  controlling  ex- 
ample concerns  the  tyrant  Phalaris  who  once  beheaded  a  man  on  a  horse-block  because  he  had  a  horse-laugh 
(185).    Charlie  Noble  is  the  first  to  try  acting  out  an  idea  when  he  bursts  into  laughter  as  soon  as  the  cos- 
mopolitan affirms  that  a  man  with  a  hearty  laugh  cannot  be  untrustworthy.    But  Charlie  Noble,  as  usual,  is 
too  much  of  a  bumbling  provincial  to  carry  off  such  punning.    The  cosmopolitan,  on  the  other  hand,  in- 
creasingly acts  out  his  words  with  more  than  earthly  implications.    His  first  such  action  seems  harmless 
enough.    His  eyes  open  wide  as  he  talks  to  Charlie  Noble  about  Shakespeare,  hoping  to  open  the  eyes  of  his 
readers .    More  ominously  he  takes  on  the  aura  of  a  serpent  when  he  invites  Mark  Winsome  to  assume 
snakehood.    Still  more  metaphysically  he  seems  to  exude  a  snake -charming  power  in  bending  the  reluctant 
barber  to  his  experiment  in  trust.    By  such  means  Melville  suggests,  without  direct  affirmation,  that  the 
cosmopolitan  has  a  more  than  merely  human  nature. 

Concurrently  with  these  practical  puns ,  the  cosmopolitan'  s  powers  as  a  magician  in  a  more  literal 
sense  have  been  emerging.    The  final  chapter  carries  the  apocalyptic  suggestions  to  their  fullest,  vague  as 
they  remain .    The  cosmopolitan  has  overtones  of  a  devil  and  of  a  godlike  being  which  cannot  be  separated . 
A  human  being,  it  seems,  must  have  confidence  in  something,  though  he  can  never  from  an  earthly  point  of 
view  know  the  final  implications  of  his  commitment .    The  metaphysical  world  remains  inescapably  beyond 
the  evidence  available  on  earth.    Nonetheless,  a  commitment  is  necessary,  even  if  only  to  make  sense  of 
this  work  of  literature,  even  though  none  can  know  whether  his  choice  has  backed  God'  s  party  or  the  Devil'  s . 
Even  the  validity  of  such  a  distinction  between  the  divine  and  the  diabolic  remains  moot . 

Melville'  s  tour-de-force  in  The  Confidence-Man  is  to  have  opened  these  inescapable  human  problems 
in  a  startlingly  original  literary  form.    The  narrator's  self-erasing  affirmations,  his  cryptic  puns,  his 
equivocation  throughout  have  produced  a  literary  form  which  transfers  the  essential  problem  to  the  reader 
himself,  (where  strictly  speaking  it  always  was  anyway),  who  is  not  simply  reading  about  a  series  of  elu- 
sive encounters;  he  is  directly  involved  in  deciding  their  nature.    The  whole  of  the  work,  after  all,  is  con- 
tained within  the  overarching  pun  of  the  title  itself,  which  poses  the  central  issues  the  text  refuses  to  re- 
solve.   On  the  one  hand,  "The  Confidence -Man"  implies  the  Jeremy  Diddler  in  whom  it  is  folly  to  place  one'  s 
confidence.    On  the  other  hand,  it  suggests  the  cosmopolitan  who  embodies  the  phenomenon  of  confidence 
itself  in  all  its  ramifications .    A  reader  cannot  escape  the  first  without  committing  his  confidence  somewhere 
and  hence  falling  under  the  influence  of  the  second.    Melville'  s  perspective  is  no  more  pessimistic  than  Life 
itself,  which  does  not  appear  so  to  those  who  approach  it  confidently . 

The  best  strategy  for  the  critic  in  such  a  case  is  to  acknowledge  and  characterize  the  ineluctable  am- 
biguities involved  and  return  his_  reader  to  the  same  life  problems  forced  into  the  open  by  Melville .    It  will 
not  do  to  follow  Merlin  Bowen  when  he  sees  a  single  confidence  figure  identifiable  with  God  because  there  is 
"internal  evidence  which,  however  inconclusive  it  may  be  thought  in  any  particular  instance,  is  yet  in  the 
mass  overwhelming.  "11   A  mass  of  inconclusive  particulars  remains  inconclusive.    The  only  conclusive 
critical  statement  possible  is  that  The  Confidence -Man  is  intentionally  inconclusive.     Undoubtedly  the  new 
readability  of  this  work  is  due  to  changes  in  literary  sensibility  associated  with  absurdist  Literature,  but 
that  historical  accident  does  not  make  Melville  into  an  absurd  writer.    Long  before  such  conceptions  be- 
came fashionable,  he  invented  a  way  to  create  Literature  which  effaced  its  own  meaning  in  order  to  confront 
his  reader  with  the  deeply  comic  problems  of  life  itself.    It  has  long  been  a  goal  of  literature  to  engage  its 
reader  profoundly.    Melville  achieved  it  in  unique  fashion  by  creating  a  text  whose  nature  as  Literature  is 
inseparable  from  the  reader's  own  life  confidences. 

University  of  Geneva 


95 

1  A  useful  summary  of  criticism  appears  in  Hershel  Parker'  s  Norton  Critical  Edition  of  The  Confidence  - 
Man  (1971). 

2  In  "Some  Notes  on  the  Structure  of  The  Confidence -Man",  AL,  XXIX  (November,   1957),  pp.  278-288. 
Though  less  often  cited,    perhaps  because  of  unduly  speculative  analysis  of  some  details,  Edgar  A.  A  .  Dry- 
den  has  strengthened  the  case  for  ambiguity  in  his  Melville'  s  Thematics  of  Form  (Johns  Hopkins  University 
Press,   1968),  pp.  149-195.  3    In  Trials  of  the  Word  (Yale  University  Press,   1965). 

4  In  The  Later  Style  of  Henry  James  (Oxford  University  Press ,   1972). 

5  The  Confidence -Man,  ed.  Elizabeth  Foster  (Hendricks  House,  1954).    All  further  references  to  this  text 
will  be  identified  by  page  numbers  appearing  in  parentheses . 

6  The  most  recent  restatement  of  this  commonplace  occurs  in  Paul  McCarthy,  "Affirmative  Elements  in 
The  Confidence -Man,  "  ATQ,  no.  7  (Summer,   1970),  56-61. 

7  Paul  Brodtkorb,  Jr.,  "The  Confidence -Man:  The  Con-Man  as  Hero,"  Studies  in  the  Novel,  I  (Winter, 
1969),  244. 

8  This  impolite  reference  has  its  counterpart  among  the  word-action  puns  of  the  second  half,  when  the  cos- 
mopolitan palms  off  a  bedpan  on  the  old  man  as  something  that  can  save  your  life  when  you  need  it  (285). 

9  Brodtkorb,  247. 

10  See  H.  Bruce  Franklin's  introduction  to  his  edition  of  The  Confidence -Man  (Bobbs -Merrill,   1967),  xx- 
xxiv. 

11  "Tactics  of  Indirection  in  Melville'  s  The  Confidence -Man,  "Studies  in  the  Novel,  I  (Winter,   1969),  407. 


H*(u.6[Ko4ti, 


ft 


MORE  life  went  out,  when  he  went, 
Than  ordinary  breath, 
Lit  with  a  finer  phosphor 
Requiring  in  the  quench 

A  power  of  renowned  cold — 
The  climate  of  the  grave — 
A  temperature  just  adequate 
So  [To?  ]  anthracite  to  live. 

For  some  an  ampler  zero, 
A  frost  more  needle-keen 
Is  necessary  to  reduce 
The  Ethiop  within. 

Others  extinguish  easier — 
A  gnat's  minutest  fan 
Sufficient  to  obliterate 
A  tract  of  citizen. 


A  SERIOUS  VIEW  OF'  HUMOR  IN 
EMILY  DICKINSON'S    POETRY 


JOHN  WHEATCROFT 


Humor  or  Emily  Dickinson'  s  poetry  has  attracted  a  considerable  amount  of  critical  attention.    Dickin- 
son "was  in  a  profound  sense  a  comic  poet  in  the  American  tradition,  "  wrote  Constance  Rourke  as  early  as 
1931. 1    Perhaps  springboarding  from  Rourke' s  contention  that  she  is  "comic  in  the  Yankee  strain,  "2  George 


3 


96 
Whicher,  that  sturdy  pioneer  of  Dickinson  criticism,  devoted  an  entire  chapter  of  his  monumental  biographi- 
cal and  critical  study  to  the  influence  of  native  American  humor  on  her  sensibility,  attitude,  and  expression 
As  recent  a  biographer  and  critic  as  Charles  R.  Anderson  has  shown  how,  influenced  by  popular  as  well  as 
literary  humor  in  her  day,  she  from  girlhood  exhibited  a  propensity  toward  and  a  talent  for  wittiness  A   In- 
deed, a  reader  cannot  proceed  very  far  into  the  body  of  her  poetry  without  sensing  how  significant  an  aspect 
of  her  art  both  technically  and  substantively  humor  is . 

Most  of  those  who  have  addressed  themselves  to  Dickinson'  s  humor  have  found  that,  in  contrast  to  the 
dark,  winding,  seemingly  endless  tunnels  of  the  self  much  of  her  work  forces  the  reader  to  venture  into,  her 
comic  vein  offers  some  pleasant  and  comfortable  going.    "It  was  in  high  fun  that  she  delighted  to  picture  her- 
self as  a  rebel  incarnate,  "  wrote  Whicher  .*   Indeed,  to  find  a  thirty -year -old  woman,  from  within  a  citadel 
of  Temperance  like  the  Dickinson  mansion  in  Amherst,  Massachusetts,  at  the  height  of  Victoria'  s  reign  in 
the  Protestant  world,  referring  to  herself  as  "Inebriate  of  Air,  "  as  a  "Debauchee  of  Dew,  "  and  as  a  "little 
Tippler"  who  amazes  "Saints"  and  infects  "Seraphs"  does  make  for  good  fun  [214,  ca.  1860]  .°    And  to  dis- 
cover that  some  twenty-five  years  later,  a  year  or  so  before  her  death,  the  same  maiden  gentlewoman  can 
spring  a  poem  from  an  analogy  to  a  drunkard'  s  not  being  able  to  "meet  a  Cork  /  Without  a  Revery"  [1628, 
ca.  1884]  or  can  observe  without  sermonizing  that  "The  Ditch  is  dear  to  the  Drunken  man"  [1645,  ca.  1885] 
provides  a  welcome  confidence  that  Emily  Dickinson  never  lost  her  sense  of  humor .    Again,  it  is  refreshing 
to  encounter  a  poet  in  tradition-locked,  provincial,  parochially  Protestant  New  England  who  calls  Thanks- 
giving a  "Reflex  Holiday"  [814,  ca.  1864]  ,  who  expresses  a  preference  for  keeping,  or  unkeeping,  the  Sab- 
bath by  worshipping  in  nature  rather  than  in  church  [324,  ca .  1860]  ,  who  ferrets  out  the  narrowness  of 
"Broad,  "  that  is,  liberal,  Christianity  [1207,   1872]  ,  who  sees  fun  in  the  imaginary  raping  of  the  "Soft- 
Cherubic"  "Gentlewomen"  of  Amherst,  with  their  "Dimity  Convictions"  [401,  ca.  1862]  ,  who  declares  such 
tea -sipping,  gossiping  females  unfit  for  the  grave  [408,  ca.  1862]  ,  who  characterizes  her  Amherst  neigh- 
bors as  the  real  show,  as  a  "Menagerie"  [1206,   1872]  !    And  yet,  if  the  fun  of  her  satiric  thrust  constituted 
the  chief  claim  her  humor  has  upon  our  attention,  we  might  appropriately  deal  with  it  en  passant. 

Considerably  more  significant  is  the  poet'  s  propensity  toward  "play"  for  its  own  sake.    Charles 
Anderson  designates  this  quality  "wit,  "  in  the  eighteenth -century  sense  of  the  word,      Dolores  Lucas  de- 
fines it  as  "riddle";^  Paul  Anderson  labels  it  "metaphysical  mirth. ""   Obviously,  something  in  Dickinson'  s 
eye  and  brain  causes  her  to  see  and  tell  "Truth"  "slant"  [1129  ca.  1868]  ,  an  angle  of  vision  that  makes  for 
wryness;  undoubtedly,  she  fights  ennui  by  moving  what  she  perceives  out  of  focus;  evidently,  "for  the  joke'  s 
sake  she  learned  to  resist  the  impulses  of  sentiment  as  completely  as  Mark  Twain  himself.  "10   if;  as 
Roethke  has  asserted,  "The  loneliest  thing  I  know  /  Is  my  own  mind  at  play,  "1*  then  Dickinson  is  one  who 
did  the  loneliest  thing.    (Indeed,  "wit"  in  contemporary  poems  like  Roethke' s  "The  Bat"  and  Richard  Wil- 
bur's "Mind"  suggests  a  Dickinson  influence.)   George  Santayana,  in  describing  "useless,"  "essentially 
frivolous"  "play"  as,  paradoxically,  being  the  "most  useful  occupation"  of  a  mind  released  from  servitude 
and  drudgery,  12  provides  a  philosophical  justification  for  one  of  the  ways  in  which  her  imagination  worked. 

Dickinson'  s  impulse  to  play  expresses  itself  as  poetic  attitude.    But  play  also  affects  her  poetry  tech- 
nically and  formally.    A  great  deal  of  the  energy  of  her  poetry  comes  from  her  use  of  humorous  devices 
and  comic  form:    from  such  diction  as 

I  shall  vote  for  Lands  with  Locks  Transport'  s  doubtful  Dividend 

Granted  I  can  pick  'em--  Patented  by  Adam.    [1195,  ca.  1871]  ; 

from  such  dislocations  as  "Squirrel  in  the  Himmaleh"  [862,  ca.  1864]  ;  from  figures  like 

It  is  an  honorable  Thought  As  One  met  sudden  Gentlefolk 

And  makes  One  lift  One's  Hat  Upon  a  daily  Street    [946,  ca.  1864]  ; 

from  comic  rhymes  like  "Water"  /  '"Ought  to'"  [1201,  late  1871]  and  "Events"  /  "Per  Cents"  [1248,  ca. 
1873]  ,  or  a  string  of  successive  rhymes  like  "Whom"  /  "Tomb"  /  "Worm"  /  "Gnome"  /  "Catacomb"  [893, 
ca .  1864]  ;  from  compression  of  an  allusion  like  that  which  determines  the  form  of 

Finding  is  the  first  Act  Fourth,  no  Discovery- - 
The  second,  loss,  Fifth,  no  Crew- 
Third,  Expedition  for  Finally,  no  Golden  Fleece -- 
the  "Golden  Fleece"  Jason- -sham- -too  [870,  ca.  1864]  . 


97 

As  Paul  Anderson  observes:    "In  a  great  many  poems  Emily  Dickinson'  s  primary  source  of  control  is  her 
deliberately  imposed  comic  vision."13 

The  urge  to  play  can  also  be  seen  to  serve  her  psychologically .    With  regard  to  her  contact  with 
nature,  for  example,  it  is  apparent  that  she  personifies  the  impersonal,  domesticates  the  out-of-doors, 
scales  down  the  vast  as  a  way  of  coming  to  terms  with  forces  and  processes  that  are  remote,  large,  power- 
ful, and  therefore  out  of  her  and  anyone  else'  s  control,  even  Squire  Dickinson'  s.    Such  humor  is  a  combin- 
ation of  primitive  magic  and  sophisticated  artistry.    Wrote  Rourke:    "She  contrived  to  see  a  changing  uni- 
verse within  that  acceptant  view  which  is  comic  in  its  profoundest  sense,  which  is  part  reconciliation,  part 
knowledge  of  eternal  disparity. "^ 

Nowhere  is  Dickinson'  s  use  of  wry  humor  as  a  way  of  handling  what  is  unnerving  more  evident  than  in 
her  attitude  toward  science  and  the  analytical  intelligence.    The  poet  rejects  "Arcturus, "  "his  other  name, " 
in  favor  of  "Star,  "  calls  a  botanist  who  examines  a  flower  "A  monster  with  a  glass,  "  and  hopes  that  when 
"the  Father  in  the  skies"  lifts  his  "Old-fashioned-naughty"  "little"  girl  "Over  the  stile  of  'Pearl, '  "  she  won't 
find  "new-fashioned"  "Children"  in  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven  [70,  ca.  1859]  .    Scientists,  whether  zoologists 
[70]  or  comparative  anatomists  [100,  ca_.  1859]  or  botanists  [168,  ca.  1860]  ,  are  ironically  called  "Savans"; 
and  the  law  of  Conservation  of  Matter  and  Energy  is  to  her  a  "Chemical  conviction,  "  whose  force  "enables" 
her  weakened  will  to  reinforce  her  wavering  faith  in  immorality  [954,  ca.  1864.        The  poem  seems  to  echo 
Tennyson'  s  In  Memoriam,  LIV  and  LV]  .    The  well-known  poem  about  a  locomotive'  s  eating  its  way  through 
the  hills  and  valleys  between  Belchertown  and  Amherst  [585,  ca.  1862]   is  an  example  of  how  comic  personi- 
fication allows  her  to  establish  an  acceptable  relationship  between  herself  and  a  powerful  new  force,  some- 
thing which  eyes  can  see,  the  body  can  make  use  of,  the  brain  can  understand  as  science  applied,  but  which 
has  not  yet  been  absorbed  into  the  heart  and  blood  and  nerves .    Perhaps,  too,  the  play  of  wit  that  generates 
this  poem  permits  the  poet  to  deal  for  the  moment  with  the  force  of  maleness;  the  dominating  personification 
and  the  supporting  imagery  of  the  poem  are  strikingly  sexual.    The  fact  that  the  Amherst  and  Belchertown 
Railway  was  established  in  part  through  the  energies  of  her  father,  15  i^e  ^e  locomotive,  a  prompt,  sched- 
uled man,  a  man  who  wielded  power  outside  as  well  as  within  his  home,  might  well  provide  an  explanation 
of  an  association  that  lies  deep  within  the  psychology  of  the  poem.    This  piece  is  a  classic  instance  of  a 
mind  at  play . 

Dickinson'  s  impulse  to  play  and  her  compulsion  to  come  to  terms  with  threats  to  her  security  by  means 
of  the  controlled  comedy  and  irony  of  her  poetry  are  manifestations  of  a  role  she  assumes  as  the  persona  of 
the  body  of  her  poetry;    the  child.    Again  and  again  she  depicts  herself  as  small,  vulnerable,  deprived,  power- 
less, naive;  she  transforms  her  perceptions  into  the  child'  s  experience;  she  clings  to  her  home  and  her 
family.    Whatever  can  be  made  of  her  fixation  insofar  as  abnormal  psychology  is  concerned,  1"  the  role  of 
the  child-poet  protagonist  is  assumed  with  calculation  and  performed  with  artfulness.    Whimsy,  innocence, 
humor,  irony  are  modes  that  she  commands,  enabling  her  to  establish  her  distinctive  poetic  control. 

II 

Some  kind  of  humor  can  be  found  in  most  of  Emily  Dickinson'  s  poems,  often  in  those  that  record  the 
most  intense  anguish.    The  humor  may  be  technical  or  formal,  like  comic  rhyme  or  compression;  some- 
thing verbal,  like  comic  epithet  or  imagery;  something  substantive,  like  comic  perspective  or  tone.    In  de- 
veloping my  interpretation,  I  have  chosen  to  use  for  exemplary  purposes  only  particular  poems  that  can  be 
said  to  be  humorous  in  the  main,  not  incidentally;  I  have  chosen  not  to  use  comic  spots  in  poems  that  are 
evidently. not  primarily  comic.    After  having  surveyed  some  critical  responses  and  having  shown  some  of 
the  variety  of  comedy  of  which  she  is  capable,  I  wish  to  advance  my  thesis  by  focusing  attention  on  religious 
lyrics  that  may  be  said  to  be  humorous .    From  an  examination  of  the  interplay  between  comic  perspective 
and  religious  subject  I  hope  to  make  clear  the  larger  significance  of  her  poetic  comedy.    Stated  simply  and 
directly,  my  thesis  is  that  her  humor  undermines  the  foundations  of  New  England  orthodoxy. 

Dickinson's  religious  poems,  as  I  read  them,  in  contrast  to  a  wide  variety  of  critical  assessment, 
are  not  meditative  verse  or  religious  lyrics  in  the  way  these  terms  are  conventionally  used.    Her  poetry  is 
not  the  expression  of  religious  passion,  like  much  of  the  poetry  of  George  Herbert  or  like  T.  S.  Eliot'  s 
Four  Quartets,  let  alone  of  mystical  experience,  like  the  poetry  of  Henry  Vaughan  or  Thomas  Traherne,  of 
Emily  Bronte  or  Theodore  Roethke.    She  does  not  project  herself  into  direct  contact  with  God  or  achieve 


96 

enlightenment  or  ecstasy  through  the  exercise  of  religious  attitude  or  discipline  in  verse;  hers  is  not  a 
poetry  of  either  worship  or  attainment .    In  any  strict  sense  of  the  term  she  is  not  a  "religious  poet"  at  all. 17 
Yet  the  bulk  of  her  poems  is  deeply,  sometimes  desperately  concerned  with  matters  religious. 

The  fact  is  that  her  cultural  circumstance  gives  her  no  choice  as  to  whether  religion  will  inhabit  her 
poetry.    New  England  orthodoxy  is  her  inheritance;  religious  stories,  themes,  doctrines,  metaphors,  dic- 
tion, even  the  meters  of  hymns  and  the  rhythms  of  the  King  James  Bible  run  in  her  blood;  religious  attitudes 
determine  her  posture  and  color  her  perspectives .    What  her  religious  poems  are  really  about  is  the  way 
in  which  she  responds  to  this  inheritance;  they  measure  the  tension  generated  in  her  psyche  by  the  inter- 
action between  her  own  experience  and  her  religiously  conditioned  sensibility.    Or  to  turn  the  argument 
around  and  still  to  be  asserting  the  same  thing,  I  might  say  that  in  her  poetry  she  uses  her  religious  "given," 
indeed  exploits  it,  in  order  to  explore,  wrestle  against,  and  project  herself.    Religion  is  her  grand  meta- 
phor, her  figurative  way  of  transcribing  the  drama  of  her  inner  life. 

As  serious  as  the  body  of  her  religious  poetry  is,  many  of  these  poems  are  clearly  comic.    The  humor, 
to  be  sure,  is  usually  wry;  there  is  certainly  more  irony  than  there  is  whimsy;  indeed,  the  poems  are  more 
akin  to  grotesquerie  than  they  are  to  burlesque.    Complex  tone  is,  of  course,  characteristic  of  sophisticated 
comedy.    "The  awe  of  truth,  "  writes  Paul  Anderson,  for  Dickinson  "can  often  only  be  contained  within  the 
wide  circle  of  mirth.  "18 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  humor  pervades  Dickinson'  s  religious  poetry  precisely  because  her  own  anguished 
struggle  compels  her  to  say  behind  a  comic  mask  what  she  cannot  say  barefaced.    There  is  not  only  the  in- 
hibition of  the  collective  superego  of  post -Puritan  provincial  New  England,  not  only  the  taboo  against  blas- 
phemy in  the  culture  where  her  projected  if  virtually  hypothetical  audience  lay.    There  is  also  the  censor  of 
herself,  conditioned  by  her  breeding  and  nurtured  by  a  need  within  her  to  protect  and  defend  even  while  she 
attacks.    The  restraining  admission  that  "there'  s  the  'Judgment  Day'  "  [413,  ca.  1862]  testifies  to  the  re- 
flexive force  of  Calvinistic  anxiety . 

In  undermining  the  unadorned,  straight -lined  meeting  house  of  New  England  orthodoxy  by  comedy  that 
is  as  sly  as  it  is  wry,  Dickinson  imposes  upon  herself  guilt,  suffering,  and  resentment.    What  she  is  doing 
through  her  insistent  mockery  is  no  less  than  repudiating  the  foundation  of  individual  character  as  well  as 
of  social  superstructure  in  provincial  New  England.    And,  viewed  historically,  retrospectively,  she  is  sub- 
verting a  tradition,  a  tradition  that  provided  not  only  a  set  of  values  to  live  by  but  also  a  reason  for  living 
and  a  promise  of  justification  for  the  individual,  in  his  personal  salvation,  and  for  the  society,  in  providen- 
tial history.    Given  her  ancestry,  her  time  and  place,  the  poet'  s  own  sense  of  security,  her  identity  and 
her  hope  rested  upon  the  very  foundation  she  could  not  literally  believe  in  and  was  therefore  driven  to  under- 
cut by  comedy.    Paul  Anderson  perceptively  sees  that  her  "mirth"  is  characterized  by  a  "deliberate  distor- 
tion that  fuses  pain  and  poignancy  with  self -mockery.  "19   i  quite  agree  with  Dr.  John  Cody,  who  in  psycho- 
analyzing the  poet  from  the  evidence  provided  by  her  poems ,  her  letters ,  and  biographical  data  concludes 
that  her  "poetry  does  not  so  much  represent  the  sublimation  of  love,  as  is  generally  supposed,  as  it  does 
the  sublimation  of  rage.  "20 

III 

Since  the  publication  of  Johnson'  s  variorum  edition,  two  different  critical  approaches  to  Dickinson'  s 
poetry  have  been  chiefly  employed.    The  first  is  clearly  defined  by  Charles  R.  Anderson  in  Emily  Dickin- 
son' s  Poetry:   Stairway  of  Surprise .    "The  whole  duty  of  the  critic,  "  he  writes,  is  to  "establish  the  canon 
of  her  highest  achievement,  to  present  the  selected  poems  in  an  order  that  will  make  them  most  meaningful, 
and  then  to  lead  the  reader  as  far  into  them  as  he  can. "21   Anderson  argues  that  "there  are  no  marked 
periods  in  her  career,  no  significant  curve  of  development  in  her  artistic  powers,  no  progressive  concern 
with  different  genres .  "22    Such  a  methodology  is  reminiscent  of  Matthew  Arnold'  s  famous  critical  impera- 
tive with  regard  to  Wordsworth:    "To  be  recognized. .  .as  a  great  poet,  to  be  possible  and  receivable  as  a 
classic,  Wordsworth  needs  to  be  relieved  of  a  great  deal  of  poetical  baggage  which  now  encumbers  him.  "23 
Here  the  critic  serves  as  editor,  deciding  upon  the  quality  of  each  poem  individually,  then  making  a  struc- 
ture that  is  his,  rather  than  the  poet'  s,  out  of  those  poems  he  finds  to  be  most  insightful,  passionate,  sig- 
nificant, or  formally  successful.    Proceeding  in  just  such  a  way,  Anderson  ventures  to  suggest  that  Dickin- 
son' s  "really  fine  poems  do  not  seem. .  .to  number  more  than  a  hundred,  her  great  ones  about  twenty -five.  "24 
What  an  invitation  to  a  critical  free-for-all! 


99 

Quite  opposite  in  presupposition,  intent,  and  procedure  is  the  methodology  which  insists  that  only  by 
focusing  attention  on  the  whole  body  of  the  poet'  s  work  as  it  progresses  during  her  lifetime  can  the  reader 
be  brought  to  some  understanding  of  what  the  poetry  is  about.    In  Circumference  and  Circumstance:  Stages 
in  the  Mind  and  Art  of  Emily  Dickinson,  William  R.  Sherwood  advances  and  practices  this  approach.2 5  He 
finds  that  the  poems  as  a  whole  represent  an  aesthetic  and  a  spiritual  progress  ;26  he  defines  that  progress 
in  terms  of  four  specific,  successive  stages  or  periods:    1.)   questioning;    2.)   resentment  and  defiance; 
3.)  despair;    4.)   resolution. 27   Such  a  method  of  dealing  with  her  poems  treats  the  material  not  in  the  for- 
mal terms  usually  employed  for  the  lyrical  genre  but  in  those  that  have  traditionally  been  used  for  narrative 
or  drama,  or  for  cycles  of  poems  that  are  narrative-like  or  dramatic.    In  this  view,  critical  interest  fo- 
cuses on  significantly  structured  movement  through  time . 

In  both  approaches,  it  seems  to  me,  there  is  a  somewhat  unwarranted  imposition  upon  the  body  of  her 
poetry.    If  the  critic  makes  his  choices  qualitatively  and  then  arranges,  really  re-arranges,  the  chosen 
poems  into  a  meaningful  order,  obviously  what  we  end  with  is  something  both  less  and  more  than  the  poet'  s 
work.    On  the  other  hand,  if  the  critic,  by  means  of  selective  focus  or  emphasis,  establishes  a  progression 
of  the  spirit  and  a  growth  in  artistry  that  are  belied  by  a  consideration  of  all  the  evidence --that  sometimes 
in  an  early  piece  the  poet  resolves  the  fiercest  doubts,  that  sometimes  in  a  late  piece  she  expresses  the 
most  unresolved  despair;  that  sometimes  she  succeeds  magnificently  in  an  early  poem,  that  sometimes  she 
fails  miserably  in  a  late  poem- -then  again  a  violence  is  being  done  to  the  poet'  s  work.    The  plain  fact  is 
that,  as  Charles  Anderson  is  right  in  arguing,  attitudes  and  states  of  mind  or  soul,  as  well  as  the  quality 
of  artistry,  shift  and  oscillate,  wander  and  meander  over  the  quarter  of  a  century  that  constitutes  her  life 
as  poet.    (As  evidence,  note  and  consider  the  distribution  of  the  dates  of  the  poems  that  I  refer  to  in  I  and 
that  I  shall  be  considering  in  IV.) 

There  is,  I  believe,  another,  more  tenable  and  more  viable  approach  based  upon  a  different  view  of 
or  model  for  Dickinson'  s  poetry.    To  be  sure,  the  entire  body  of  the  poet'  s  work  must  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration, as  Sherwood  is  right  in  arguing.    Her  poems,  like  D.  H.  Lawrence's,  "make  up  a  biography  of 
an  emotional  and  inner  life. "28    She  belongs  to  a  line  of  writers,  which  includes  St.  Augustine,   Langland, 
Bunyan,  Lawrence,  Robert  Lowell,  for  whom  writing  is  essentially  a  purgative  act.    For  her  the  making  of 
a  poem  is  not  creating  an  object  outside  the  self;  it  is  the  using  of,  the  projecting  of,  the  continuing  of  the 
self.    And  as  in  the  pietistic  tradition,  an  urgency  about  the  self  energizes  psychic  and  symbolic  processes, 
it  moves  the  imagination  in  an  introspective,  often  introverted  direction,  and  it  effects  a  fearful  amount  of 
self-abrasion. 

To  consider  Dickinson'  s  poems  as  a  whole  is  to  find  a  record  of  spiritual  vicissitude  much  like  that 
set  down  in  Bunyan'  s  Grace  Abounding,  not  like  the  structured  journey  of  Bunyan'  s  Christian  in  Pilgrim'  s 
Progress .     Formally  considered,  the  eighteen  hundred  poems  are  less  an  organized,  objectified  portrait  of 
the  artist,  in  which  we  can  measure  growth  in  vision  and  in  faith  and  development  in  artistry,  than  they  are 
a  Puritan-like  diary  or  journal,  kept  sometimes  regularly  and  under  the  most  intense  pressure,  sometimes 
irregularly,  when  internal  pressures  have  relaxed.    But  always  anxiously.    To  put  it  another  way:    her  poetry 
is  not  a  tragedy,  not  a  spiritual  romance  or  a  "divine  comedy";  it  is  a  continuous,  episodic  lyrical  adventure 
of  the  soul.    Such  structure  is,  of  course,  traditional  in  comedy.    Perhaps  the  most  precise  way  of  defining 
her  work  formally  is  to  call  it  a  picaresque  cycle  of  poems . 

IV 
One  way  in  which  Dickinson'  s  comic  undercutting  of  orthodoxy  manifests  itself  is  her  use  of  parody . 
In  a  poem  written  early  in  her  poetic  life,  "The  gentian  weaves  her  fringes"  [18,  ca.  1858]  ,  the  poet  writes 
an  elegy  for  summer  that  parodies  the  Christian  burial  service.    Obsequies  are  held  not  in  church  but  in 
her  garden;  the  presiding  figure  is  not  an  ordained  clergyman  but  "An  aged  Bee."    In  the  benediction  with 
which  the  poem  closes,  the  bee  turns  into  God  Himself,  the  First  Member  of  the  Trinity- -a  naturalized 
Trinity:   the  Son  is  a  "Butterfly"  and  the  Holy  Spirit  is  a  "Breeze."   The  benediction  is  punctuated  with  an 
echoing  "Amen!" 

Twenty  or  so  years  later,  near  the  end  of  her  life,  she  composed  another  mock  elegy  in  the  form  of 
a  parody,  "Now  I  lay  thee  down  to  sleep"  [1539,  ca.  1882]  .     Not  only  does  the  poem  pervert  the  most 
widely  used  bedtime  prayer  of  Protestant  New  England  children;  it  also  casts  doubt  on  the  eternal  existence 
of  the  soul:    "And  if  thou  live  before  thou  wake--  /  I  pray  the  Lord  thy  Soul  to  make-- ." 


100 
Dickinson  most  frequently  uses  the  Bible.    Her  dependence  upon  it  and  her  exploitation  of  it  are,  of 
course,  a  reflection  of  the  significance  of  the  Scriptures  in  nineteenth -century  New  England  life  and  culture. 
A  well-known  poem,   "The  Bible  is  an  antique  volume"  [1545,  ca_.  1879-late  1882]  ,  written  and  re-written 
toward  the  end  of  her  life,  makes  clear  that  her  attitude  toward  the  Bible  is  anything  but  orthodox.    The  in- 
spiring force,  the  Holy  Spirit,  is  rendered  as  "Holy  Spectres";  the  inspired  writers,  as  "faded  Men."  The 
substance  is  reduced  to  an  abrupt  "Subjects--"  and  catalogued  in  the  form  of  comic  epithets:   Satan,  "the 
Brigadier";  Judas,  "the  Great  Defaulter"  (note  the  pun);  David,  "the  Troubadour";  Eden,  "the  ancient  Home- 
stead"; sin,  "a  distinguished  Precipice."   The  Doctrine  of  Sin  is  treated  with  an  irony  calculated  to  expose 
it  as  a  hypocrisy:    "Others  may  resist--";  belief,  in  the  same  way:    "Boys  that  'believe'  are  very  lone- 
some-- /  Other  Boys  are  'lost'  --."    To  designate  souls  that  hang  in  the  balance  as  "boys"  clearly  is  to  sug- 
gest the  puerile  nature  of  the  whole  business  .    In  concluding  the  poem,  the  poet  argues  that  a  poet,  rather 
than  a  "faded"  man,  should  tell  the  story,  and  that  the  intention  of  the  story  ought  to  be  changed:    instead  of 
being  used  to  condemn,  it  should  enthrall,  win,  captivate,  as  did  the  "Sermon"  of  Orpheus.    By  expressing 
a  preference  for  the  pagan  poet  over  the  hell-fire  preacher  and  for  the  Classical  myth  over  the  Bible,  she 
defines  her  attitude  toward  Christian  orthodoxy.    Only  the  comic  tone  of  the  poem,  the  poet'  s  defense  or 
escape,  allows  it  to  be  considered  something  other  than  a  piece  of  calculated  sacrilege.    Which  is  precisely 
what  it  is . 

Whicher  was,  I  think,  quite  taken  in  by  Dickinson'  s  strategy  here  and,  as  we  shall  see,  elsewhere. 
He  wrote:    ". .  .the  most  outrageously  mocking  of  her  poems  on  Biblical  subjects  were  written  in  a  spirit  of 
frolic  and  banter  for  a  special  audience,  her  nephew  Ned. "29   Johnson  indeed  establishes  that  this  poem  was 
sent  to  Ned;  but  that  Ned  was  a  twenty -one  year -old  student  at  Amherst  Co  liege.  30   In  late  nineteenth-cen- 
tury Amherst  respectable  and  easy  consciences  simply  do  not  banter  about  the  Holy  Ghost;  when  one  made 
restless  by  its  imagination  does,  that  is  significant. 

Quite  a  few  Dickinson  poems  are  retellings  of  stories  or  events  from  the  Bible.    In  light  of  the  poet'  s 
attitude  toward  the  Good  Book,  it  is  scarcely  surprising  that  in  her  reconstructions  she  does  a  considerable 
amount  of  violence  to  the  teaching  orthodoxy  found  in  the  Scriptures --almost  always,  to  be  sure,  under  the 
guise  of  humor .    In  an  early  poem,  for  example,  "A  little  east  of  Jordan"  [59,  ca.  1859]  ,  she  retells  the 
story  of  Jacob'  s  wrestling  with  the  angel  (Genesis  32:24-32).    Diction  effects  the  humor:    the  "little"  of 
line  1  reduces  the  monumentality  of  the  event,  makes  it  a  neighborhood  affair;  that  "Evangelists  record" 
the  story  suggests  a  certain  skepticism;  the  patriarchal,  anguished  Jacob  is  turned  into  "A  Gymnast."   The 
comic  domestication  of  having  the  angel  ask  permission  to  leave  off  wrestling  in  order  "To  Breakfast"  cer- 
tainly cuts  into  the  gravity  of  this  purported  account  of  a  dark  night  of  the  soul.    Yet  the  final  turn  goes 
even  further:   Jacob  compels  the  angel  to  give  him  blessing,  only  to  discover  to  his  bewilderment  that  he 
has  "worsted  God!"   On  top  of  the  unorthodoxy  of  the  doctrine,  comes  the  unexpected  substitution  of  "wor- 
sted" for  'bested,  "  doubling  the  irony  in  a  satirical  way  that  suggests  heresy  not  only  with  regard  to  God'  s 
omnipotence  but  also  with  regard  to  his  absolute  goodness. 

At  the  peak  of  her  productivity,  the  poet,  in  much  the  same  vein  and  with  much  the  same  ramification, 
retells  the  story  of  Moses'  being  denied  entrance  into  the  Promised  Land  (Deuteronomy  34:1-4).    ["It  al- 
ways felt  to  me  a  wrong,  "  597,  ca.  1862]  .    The  "Romance"  of  Moses  "In  point  of  injury"  surpasses  that  of 
Stephen  or  Paul,  martyrs,  as  the  poet  reinterprets  the  lore.    That  she  is  thus  calling  into  question  God'  s 
justice  is  not  disguised  by  her  scaling  down  the  event  to  a  boy'  s  dealing  "with  lesser  Boy--  /  To  prove 
ability";  in  fact,  the  figure  additionally  suggests  that  God  is  a  bully  who  sadistically  compensates  for  His 
feekngs  of  weakness  and  insecurity.    Although  the  poem  is  comic  in  its  distortion,  in  its  diction  and  devices - 
"Grand  Old  Moses,  "  "Pentateuchal  Robes,  "  "God'  s  adroiter  will,  "  "tantalizing  Play" --the  ending  turns 
manifestly  serious:    "My  justice  bleeds --for  Thee  [Moses]  !" 

Twenty  years  later  she  is  still  at  the  same  game,  treating  the  story  of  Elijah'  s  being  charioted  into 
Heaven  (2  Kings  2:9-11)  with  humorous  skepticism  ["Elijah'  s  wagon  knew  no  thill,  "  1254,  ca.  1873]  ;  re- 
telling the  story  of  Abraham'  s  being  "distinctly  told"  to  sacrifice  his  "Urchin"  son  Isaac  (Genesis  22)  in  a 
way  that  depicts  God  as  a  tyrant  who  needs  to  be  flattered  and  placated- -"a  Mastiff"  who  may  be  prevailed 
upon  not  to  shed  human  blood  by  our  exercise  of  "Manners"  ["Abraham  to  kill  him,  "  1317,  ca.  1874]  ;  com- 
ically suggesting  that  "The  Conscience  of  us  all,  "  "without  it'  s  [sic]  Glasses,  "  can  read  the  warning  about 
impending  destruction  given  to  Belshazzar  (Daniel  5). 


101 
In  much  the  same  way  that  she  employs  comedy,  wit,  and  irony  in  puncturing  Old  Testament  stories, 
Dickinson  echoes  and  distorts  chapter  and  verse  from  the  New  Testament.    In  a  relatively  early  poem,  "I 
meant  to  have  but  modest  needs"  [476,  ca.  1862]  ,  the  poet,  with  her  eye  on  Christ'  s  promise  "Whatsoever 
Ye  shall  ask--  /  Itself  be  given  You--"  (a  paraphrase  of  Matthew  21:22,  Mark  11:24,  John  14:13  and  16:23), 
confesses  that,  once  having  been  "swindled"  by  the  Son  and  His  Father,  she  has  "grown  shrewder,  "  she 
now  scans  "the  Skies  /  With  a  suspicious  Air."    She  balances  comedy  and  acrimony  by  having  a  smile  suf- 
fuse "Jehovah'  s  face"  and  by  having  "Grave  saints"  show  "their  dimples"  while  they  hear  and  watch  her 
praying,  naively  expecting  her  prayer  to  be  answered.    That  she  requested  little  and  asked  only  once  makes 
it  pathetically  understandable  that  after  her  deception  she  "threw  [her]  . .  .Prayer  away." 

Even  the  Crucifixion  itself  is  a  fair  target.    In  a  poem  written  a  year  or  two  before  her  death,  "The 
auctioneer  of  parting"  [1612,  ca.  1884]  ,  the  poet  depicts  Christ'  s  death  on  the  Cross  as  an  auction,  with 
Death,  the  "Auctioneer,"  shouting  "Going,  going,  gone"  and  bringing  down  "his  Hammer."    (A  striking 
piece  of  wit,  that  hammer:   it  composites  the  gavel  of  the  auctioneer  and  the  hammer  that  drove  the  nails . ) 
In  view  of  the  cultural  and  symbolic  connections  between  Protestant  orthodoxy  and  capitalism,  as  Max 
Weber  and  R.  H.  Tawney  and  their  revisionists  have  shown,  there  is  sharp  point  to  making  the  central  ac- 
tion in  Christianity  an  economic  transaction . 

Dickinson  uses  humor  not  only  to  mock  Scripture;  she  employs  it  also  to  call  orthodox  doctrines  into 
question,  sometimes  to  repudiate  them  or  to  distort  or  reverse  their  significance.    In  a  mordantly  ironic 
piece  that  looks  forward  to  some  of  Stephen  Crane'  s  bitter  poems,  "I  reason  earth  is  short"  [301,  ca.  1862]  , 
the  poet,  after  undermining  her  reasoned  comforts  about  the  brevity  of  life  and  the  inevitability  of  death, 
with  a  refrain  that  expresses  a  chillingly  nihilistic  shrug  of  the  shoulders  of  the  soul,  "But,  what  of  that?" 
dismisses  the  Doctrine  of  Redemption  in  the  same  contemptuous  way:    "I  reason,  that  in  Heaven--  /  Some- 
how, it  will  be  even--  /  Some  new  Equation,  given--  /  But,  what  of  that?"    (The  language  of  this  stanza  also 
seems  to  mock  Emerson'  s  notorious  theory  of  Compensation.) 

Precise  definition  is  an  important  instrument  in  the  Calvinistic  trades  of  theology  and  preaching. 
Thomas  Hooker,  Solomon  Stoddard,  Jonathan  Edwards  employ  it  constantly.    Observe  how  many  of  Dickin- 
son' s  poems  are  definitions,  most  of  them  tinged  with  irony  or  so  skewed  as  to  be  redefinitions .    Her  very 
use  of  the  rhetorical  device  is  recognizable  parodying.    For  example,  the  well-known  quatrain  "'Faith'  is 
a  fine  invention"  [185,  ca .  1860]  ,  redefines  faith  so  as  to  sabotage  that  precious  and  necessary  Protestant 
vehicle  for  attaining  salvation.    The  quotation  marks  enclosing  the  term  to  be  defined  indicate  the  poet'  s 
detachment,  her  dissociating  herself  from  such  a  belief.    "Fine  invention,  "  the  predicate  nominative  and 
chief  term  of  the  definer,  begins  the  mockery:    "fine"  is  patently  ironic;  "invention"  suggests  despirituali- 
zation,  indeed,  fabrication.    The  qualifying  clause,   "When  Gentlemen  can  see,  "  reduces  the  logic  of  the 
definition  to  absurdity.    And  the  understatement  of  the  contrary  proposition,  "But  Microscopes  are  prudent  / 
In  an  Emergencyf,]"  in  which  the  italicizing  of  the  opposite  "Microscopes"  reinforces  the  quotation  marks 
around  "'Faith'  ,  "  closes  off  the  exercise  in  mock  rhetoric  and  logic  with  a  witty  but  devasting  fillip.     The 
economy  and  tone  of  the  verse  invite  no  reply.  .    „ 

At  the  height  of  her  productivity,  she  uses  almost  identical  strategy  to  define  and  qualify,  if  not  dis- 
qualify, prayer  ["Prayer  is  the  little  implement,  "  437,  ca.  1862]  .    Note  the  despiritualizing,  indeed,  de- 
humanizing definer,  "implement,  "  and  the  patronizing,  reductive  "little."    Because  God  denies  His  presence 
to  men,  the  poet  argues,  men  are  compelled  to  "fling  their  Speech"  "in  God's  Ear";  the  relationship  as  de- 
fined by  the  poet,  perverse  on  one  side,  frantic  on  the  other,  drains  prayer  of  the  intimacy,  holy  atmos- 
phere it  is  supposed  to  have.    And  the  tail-chasing,  tautological  quality  of  the  conclusion,  in  which  the  de- 
spiritualized  "implement"  is  reinforced  by  "Apparatus,  "  even  to  the  neat  irony  of  ending  the  definition  with 
the  term  to  be  defined,  constitutes  a  controlled  but  bitter  disposition  of  the  matter. 

One  of  Dickinson'  s  most  perversely  religious  lyrics,  written  late,  assumes  the  form  of  a  mock  prayer 
['"Heavenly  Father'  take  to  thee,"  1461,  ca.  1879]  .    The  quotation  marks  in  the  address,  '"Heavenly 
Father' ,  "  express  the  poet'  s  doubt  about  the  appropriateness  of  the  epithet.    What  the  prayer  itself  pro- 
ceeds to  do  is  to  undermine  the  all-important  orthodox  Doctrine  of  Original  Sin.    Indeed,  the  poet  seems  to 
embrace  heresy,  in  that  she  asserts  that  God  "In  a  moment  contraband"  with  his  own  "candid  Hand"  "Fash- 
ioned" "The  supreme  iniquity" --man.    As  if  she  were  a  morally  precocious  child  offering  advice  to  an  ob- 
tuse and  obstinate  parent,  she  informs  God  that  "to  trust  us--seem  to  us  /  More  respectful";  after  all,  she 


102 
goes  on,  throwing  in  God'  s  face  His  own  words  from  Scripture,  You  Yourself  insist  that  "We  are  Dust,  " 
that  is,  made  by  You  out  of  Your  earth  in  Your  image .    The  poem  concludes  with  the  poet'  s  assuming  a 
bitterly  pointed  grace,  as  she  apologizes  to  God  for  His  "own  Duplicity,  "--the  bitter  point  being  that,  al- 
though not  in  power  but  in  moral  attitude  and  action,  the  creature  is  superior  to  the  Creator.    The  language 
is  that  of  Calvin  and  Edwards;  the  doctrine  most  certainly  is  not.    Her  use  of  wit,  irony,  compression 
scarcely  disguises  the  heresy;  indeed,  the  poet  wants  it  to  be  seen.    And  because  of  her  control  and  her 
strategy,  the  pungency  is  all  the  more  pronounced,  all  the  more  operative. 

The  attraction  the  Devil  holds  for  the  poet  is  expressed  in  another  later  poem,  "The  devil  had  he 
fidelity"  [1479,  ca.  1879]  .    Not  only  has  the  Devil  "ability,  "  according  to  the  poem;  he,  in  contrast  to  any 
of  the  Trinity,  "Would  be  the  best  friend"  if  he  could  resign  "Perfidy,  "  could  "mend"  himself.    In  asserting 
that  self-reconstruction  is  not  within  the  Devil'  s  power,  the  poet  calls  attention  to  a  large  injustice;  she 
also  implies  Who  has  and  does  not  choose  to  employ  this  power .    The  considered  and  intense  perverseness 
of  the  poet'  s  theology  is  not  tempered  by  the  wit  of  the  resolution:    if  he  could  do  what  he  cannot,  "The 
Devil- -without  question  /  Were  thoroughly  divine  [.]"  The  logic  and  the  ramifications  are  reminiscent  of 
Edwards  on  the  will;  the  doctrine  scarcely  is . 

Against  the  poet'  s  flirtation  with  the  Devil,  it  is  instructive  to  scrutinize  her  affair  with  God,  as  she 
carries  it  on  in  her  poetry  for  over  a  quarter  of  a  century.    The  young  lady  who  in  a  serious  poem  does  not 
hesitate  to  call  God  a  "Banker"  and  a  "Burglar"  ["I  never  lost  as  much  but  twice,  "  49,  ca.  1858]  has  no 
qualms  about  using  such  a  comic  epithet  as  "Papa  above"  for  Him.    As  she  plays  with  His  son  Jesus'   saying, 
"In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions"  (John  14:2),  she  asks  God  to  reserve  for  her,  "a  Mouse"  or  a 
"Rat, "  a  "Snug"  place  "in  seraphic  Cupboards"  where  she  can  "nibble  all  the  day, "  while  "Cycles  /  Wheel 
solemnly  away!"  ["Papa  above"  61,  ca.  1859]  .    To  contrast  such  an  underside -of-the -house  view  of  the 
Heavenly  Father  and  his  many  mansions  to  the  splendor  of  God  and  Heaven  as  depicted  in  the  Apocalypse  or 
in  Pilgrim's  Progress  or  in  evangelical  sermons  and  hymns  is  to  witness  utmost  comic  deflation. 

Even  when  the  humor  of  a  religious  poem  is  not  a  weapon  of  attack,  even  when  it  remains  whimsical 
rather  than  turns  acid- -as  in  resolving  the  paradox  of  multiplicity  and  oneness  in  the  Trinity  by  asserting 
that  God,  "a  distant-stately  Lover, "  like  Miles  Standish,  is  also,  in  the  form  of  Christ,  the  wooer,  like 
John  Alden--the  ingenuity  and  disproportion  that  inhere  in  the  play  of  wit  necessarily  belittle.    Humor  in 
"God  is  a  distant,  stately  lover"  [357,  ca.  1862]  evaporates  the  mystery.    The  wide  limit  of  the  wit  with 
which  the  maiden  gentlewoman  poet  allows  herself  to  treat  God  is  set  down  in  a  quatrain  Johnson  has  been 
unable  to  date,  "To  their  apartment  deep"  [1701]  .    Here  the  poet  asserts  that  the  grave  is  indeed  a  place 
where  few  embrace--"No  ribaldry"  there;  God  alone  tumbles  those  who  dwell  in  this  "apartment  deep."  To 
suggest  that  God  has  sexual  relations  with  the  dead  is  to  push  a  joke  indeed  beyond  mere  comic  ingenuity. 

The  same  Father  who  permits  the  poet  to  be  "O'er-powered  by  the  Cat,  "  in  "Papa  above, "  grudges 
her  "transport, "  "Extasy,  "  in  "A  transport  one  cannot  contain"  [184,  ca.  1860]  .    Such  divine  withholding 
suggests  to  the  poet  the  wild  idea  of  putting  "Holy  Ghosts  in  Cages!"   The  daringly  funny  image  and  the 
jocular  tone  should  not  be  taken  to  mean  that  a  rage  bred  of  disappointment  and  repression,  a  rage  which  is 
controlled  by  wit  but  which  also  springs  the  poem  in  the  first  place,  is  not  being  expressed.    Indeed,  the 
poem  is  the  release  of  rage,  is  itself  "A  Diagram--of  Rapture!" 

At  the  height  of  her  anguish  and  her  productivity,  the  poet  insists  on  her  feeling  of  dislocation  ["I 
never  felt  at  home  below,  "  413,  ca.  1862]  .    If  earth  is  no  home  to  her,  neither  will  "the  Handsome  Skies,  " 
Heaven,  be.    She,  a  child,  does  not  care  to  live  where  "it's  Sunday-all  the  time--  /  And  Recess--never 
comes."    What  weighs  upon  her,  she  confesses,  is  God,  whose  omniscience  and  omnipresence  make  him 
"a  Telescope,  "  an  eye  that  never  takes  "a  Nap"  or  goes  out  to  visit.    Indeed,  the  poet-child,  alienated,  un- 
loved, oppressed,  would  "run  away  /  From  Him- -and  Holy  Ghost- -and  All--  /  But  there's  the  'Judgment 
Day'  !"    Playing  the  role  of  the  little  girl,  wittily  domesticating  the  immensities,  ingenuously  humanizing 
the  supernatural,  then  ingeniously  dehumanizing  an  anthropomorphic  God,  artlessly  playing  with  idiom- - 
"Holy  Ghost"  not  "the  Holy  Ghost,"  "the  'Judgment  Day'  ,  "  not  '"Judgment  Day'" --removing  herself  by  means 
of  quotation  marks:   all  of  these  maneuvers  render  the  poem  invulnerable  to  attack  on  moral  grounds  in  that 
its  manner  is  humorous,  even  though  what  it  says  is  embittered  sacrilege. 


103 
If  orthodoxy  teaches  that  God  is  the  Great  Physician,  the  poet  in  the  middle  years  of  her  creative  life 
must  wryly  point  out  that  "Medicine  Posthumous"  /  Is  unavailable--"  ["Is  heaven  a  physician,"  1270,  ca.  1873] 
Or  if,  translating  divine  beneficence  into  good  Calvinistic  terms,  we  may  consider  "Heaven  an  Exchequer" 
to  whom  man  owes,  the  poet,  responding  with  appropriate  irony  in  the  language  of  economics  and  law,  in- 
sists that  "that  negotiation"  she  is  "not  a  Party  to."   Beneath  the  clever  parallel  of  the  two  figures  and  the 
wit  with  which  she  maintains  consistency,  we  may  detect  a  serious  disclaimer,  a  rebellion  against  a  one- 
sided contract  that  is  no  less  deliberate  than  Thoreau'  s  famous  rupture  of  a  civil  contract  he  disavowed;  in- 
deed, that  the  context  here  is  theological  makes  the  denial  perhaps  even  more  significant  for  the  nineteenth 
century . 

If  the  poet  is  not  herself  the  breaker  of  covenants,  because  she  has  never  made  any,  because  she  has 
no  initiating  will  in  such  a  matter,  God,  who  has  the  power  and  has  chosen  to  make  a  compact  with  man, 
does  not  keep  to  His  own  terms.    Supposedly  he  is  one  of  the  gentle,  the  most  gentle  of  all;  supposedly  he  is 
one  of  the  kind,  the  kindest  of  all.    But  in  that  he  "broke  his  contract  to  his  Lamb  /  To  qualify  the  Wind, " 
the  poet  judges  Him  to  be  "ruthless,  "  "cruel"  ["How  ruthless  are  the  gentle,  "  1439,  ca.  1878]  .    The  para- 
dox with  which  this  single  quatrain  poem  opens  is  clever;  the  paraphrase  of  Laurence  Sterne'  s  "God  tempers 
the  wind  to  the  shorn  lamb"  is  neatly  used- -daringly,  too,  in  its  evocation  of  Christ  as  the  sacrificial  Lamb 
of  God,  echoing  the  famous  pastoral  prophecy  of  Isaiah. 

A  year  or  so  before  her  death,  Dickinson  depicts  God'  s  lack  of  compassion  toward  His  own  creation 
by  exposing  His  approval  of  the  way  in  which  frost  assassinates  flowers  while  they  are  happily  at  play  ["Ap- 
parently with  no  surprise, "  1624,  ca .  1884]  .    Personifying  flowers  as  playing  children  with  its  overtone  of 
sentiment,  personifying  a  killing  frost  as  a  "blonde  Assassin"  with  its  balancing  coldbloodedness,  conjuring 
a  suggestion  of  detachment  through  the  acceptance  of  the  victim  and  the  uninterrupted  progress  of  the  sun- 
note  the  pun  in  "The  Sun  proceeds  unmoved" --cannot  disguise  an  irony  that  is  as  accusatory  and  caustic  as 
any  of  the  seriously  contrived  ironies  of  Hardy.    Fitting  the  orthodox  conception  of  God  as  omnipotent  as 
well  as  omniscient  to  the  seemingly  exculpating  phrase  "In  accidental  power,  "  the  poem  hits  with  a  force 
that  is  breathtaking  because,  artfully  concealed  and  delayed,  it  is  so  sudden.    There  is  no  finer  example  of 
the  devastation  of  orthodoxy  than  Dickinson'  s  controlled  wit  wreaks  . 

V 

In  1858,  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes'  comic  narrative  poem  about  the  "one-hoss  shay"  of  New  England 
orthodoxy  appeared.    In  the  same  year  Emily  Dickinson'  s  poetic  life  began.    For  the  next  quarter  of  a  cen- 
tury, the  poet  rattled  the  framework  of  "Deacon"  Edwards'  wonderful  vehicle .    She  did  it  subtly,  while 
riding  along  in  the  shay- -that  is,  she  used  traditional  materials,  even  to  diction  and  metaphor.    She  did  it 
covertly,  perhaps  even  unawares ,  unloosening  the  joints  in  her  nervous  play--that  is,  she  used  the  destruc- 
tive tools  of  humor,  wit,  and  irony  in  religious  poem  after  religious  poem.    Much  less  consciously  and  with- 
in a  very  different  form  from  their  comic  drama  and  comic  narrative,  but  in  fact  accomplishing  the  same 
end,  she,  writing  a  picaresque  journal  in  recreated  hymn  meters,  did  to  the  "myth"  of  New  England  ortho- 
doxy what  Aristophanes  and  Plautus  did  to  Greek  and  Roman  religious  myth,  what  Rabelais  and  Erasmus  did 
to  Catholic  "myth."    With  regard  to  the  crisis  of  her  culture,  she  appeared  on  the  scene  at  just  about  the 
same  chronological  and  psychological  moment. 

To  assert  such  an  interpretation  of  humor  in  Dickinson'  s  poetry  is  not  to  deny  that  she  wrote  many 
poems  that  record  her  spiritual  as  well  as  psychological  anguish .    It  is  not  even  to  deny  that  many  of  her 
religious  poems  assert  faith- -though  in  most  of  these  there  is  some  detectable  reservation,  some  wryness 
or  some  distortion  of  perspective.    Nor  is  it  to  insist  that  she  calculated  the  use  of  such  an  overall  strategy 
to  undermine  the  fortress  .    But  when  in  a  body  of  poetry  there  is  a  consistent  rendering  of  the  supernatural 
elements  of  a  mythology  in  familiar  and  natural  terms,  when  the  monumental  and  cosmic  are  reduced  to  the 
small  and  the  domestic,  when  the  sacred  concerns  of  adults  are  depicted  as  childishness,  when  the  holy  is 
made  ordinary,  when  the  universe  is  shrunk  to  a  garden,  the  mansion  of  Heaven  to  a  house,  an  omnipotent, 
omniscient,  inscrutable  God  to  a  transparently  cranky  and  oppressive  parent,  deflation  is  inevitably  effected, 
no  matter  what  pretenses  are  maintained. 

Such  a  view  of  Dickinson'  s  humor  places  her  in  the  mainstream  of  American  literature  in  her  time . 
In  contrast,  however,  to  the  rejection  of  orthodoxy  by  the  literary  Romantics,  Emerson,  Thoreau,  and 
Whitman,  Dickinson'  s  rejection,  though  effected  by  humor  and  though  lacking  the  form  of  tragedy,  has  a 


104 
tragic  resonance.    Despite  the  compulsive  deflating,  reducing,  naturalizing  by  means  of  a  whole  range  of 
comic  devices  and  perspectives,  her  poetry  clearly  tells  us  that  she  could  not  help  believing  in  the  ortho- 
dox view  of  man  as  a  fallen  creature;  we  hear  that  in  the  strangled  cries  and  comic  curses  with  which  she 
endures  constant  crisis.    In  this  respect,  she  is  much  like  Hawthorne:   undercutting  presupposition  while 
holding  to  the  condition,  she  suffers  with  no  hope  of  consolation.    Although  the  metaphysic  of  orthodoxy  is 
repudiated  by  her  poetry,  as  it  is  by  Hawthorne'  s  fiction,  her  literary  position,  too,  serves  as  a  bridge  be- 
tween Edwards  and  our  own  time,  when  we  enjoy  a  new  literature  of  anxiety.    For  us,  her  poetry  redefines 
the  meaning  of  sin,  jeopardy,  necessity,  will,  choice,  limitation,  impotence,  loss,  dislocation,  anger.  Our 
response  to  her  redefinition  is  testimony  as  to  her  continuing  relevance,  her  enduring  authenticity. 

In  Dead  Souls ,  Gogol  writes  of  "a  kind  of  laughter  which  is  worthy  to  be  ranked  with  the  higher  lyric 
emotions  and  is  infinitely  different  from  the  twitchings  of  a  mere  merrymaker."  Comedy  that  operates  in 
a  poetry  as  does  Emily  Dickinson'  s  surely  affects  us  as  cathartically  as  do  the  classic  emotions  of  tragedy. 

Bucknell  University 


I  Constance  Rourke,  American  Humor  (N.Y.,  1931,  reprinted  1953),  pp.  209-210.         2    Ibid.,  p.  210. 

3  George  Frisbie  Whicher,  This  Was  a  Poet  (N.Y.,  1938),  Chapter  X,  pp.  170-188. 

4  Charles  R.  Anderson,  Emily  Dickinson'  s  Poetry:  Stairway  of  Surprise  (N .  Y. ,  1960),  pp.  4ff. 

5  Whicher,  p.  28. 

6  Reprinted  by  permission  of  the  publishers  and  the  Trustees  of  Amherst  College  from  Thomas  H.  Johnson, 
Editor,  The  Poems  of  Emily  Dickinson,  Cambridge,  Mass.:  The  Belknap  Press  of  Harvard  University  Press, 
Copyright  1951,  1955,  by  The  President  and  Fellows  of  Harvard  College.    Reprinted  also  with  the  permission 
of  Little,  Brown  and  Company,  co-owner    of  the  copyright .  7   Anderson,  pp.  3-4. 

8  Dolores  Dyer  Lucas,  Emily  Dickinson  and  Riddle  (DeKalb,  Illinois,  1969). 

9  Paul  W.  Anderson,  "The  Metaphysical  Mirth  of  Emily  Dickinson,  "  Georgia  Review,  XX  (Spring,   1966), 
72-83.  10   Whicher,  p.  181. 

II  Theodore  Roethke,  "His  Foreboding,"  The  Collected  Poems  (N.Y.,   1966),  p.  215. 

12  George  Santayana,  The  Sense  of  Beauty  (N .  Y . ,  1896),  pp.  25-28. 

13  Paul  W.  Anderson,  p.  80.  14   Rourke,  p.  211.  15    Whicher,  p.  25. 

16  See  John  Cody,  After  Great  Pain:  The  Inner  Life  of  Emily  Dickinson  (Cambridge,  Mass.,   1971),  Chapter 
III,  pp.  104-152. 

17  Richard  Chase  makes  the  related  point  that  "Emily  Dickinson  is  not  a  moralist."    Emily  Dickinson 
(N.Y.,  1951),  p.  178.  18    Paul  W.  Anderson,  p.  73.  19    mid.,  p.  77. 

20   Cody,  p.  415.  21    Charles  R.  Anderson,  p.  x.  22    Ibid.,  p.  xii. 

23  Matthew  Arnold,  "Wordsworth,"  Essays  in  Criticism,  Second  Series  (London,  1915),  p.  136. 

24  Charles  R.  Anderson,  pp.  xiii-xiv. 

25  William  R .  Sherwood ,  Circumference  and  Circumstance:   Stages  in  the  Mind  and  Art  of  Emily  Dickin- 
son (N.Y.,  1968).  26    Ibid.,  pp.  181-183.  27   Ibid . ,  p.  230. 

28   D.  H.  Lawrence,  The  Complete  Poems,  ed.  Vivian  de  Sola  Pinto  and  F.  Warren  Roberts  (N.Y.,  1964), 
p.  27.  29    Whicher,  p.  155.  30   Poems,  ed.  Johnson,  III,  1066. 


HAWTHORNE  AND  SHAKESPEARE        0*o***K 


i^ 


$• 


That  a  number  of  Hawthorne'  s  tales  written  during  the  early  1840'  s  show  evidence  of  the  specific  in- 
fluence of  Shakespeare  has  been  demonstrated  by  Frank  Davidson,  !  but  such  influence  may  be  found  in  a 
tale  published  as  early  as  1832,  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux."   Describing  the  public  humiliation  of  the 
deposed  major  at  the  close  of  the  story,  Hawthorne  writes  that  "when  there  was  a  momentary  calm  in  that 
tempestuous  sea  of  sound,  the  leader  gave  the  sign,  the  procession  resumed  its  march.    On  they  went,  like 
fiends  that  throng  in  mockery  around  some  dead  potentate,  mighty  no  more,  but  majestic  still  in  his  agony. 
On  they  went,  in  counterfeited  pomp,  in  senseless  uproar,  in  frenzied  merriment,  trampling  all  on  an  old 
man's  heart."2    It  seems  likely  that  Hawthorne'  s  inspiration  for  this  poignant  trampled-heart  figure~~was~ 
the  following  speech  from  Richard  II: 


105 

What  must  the  King  do  now?   Must  he  submit?  Or  I"  11  be  buried  in  the  king'  s  highway, 

The  King  shall  do  it.    Must  he  be  depos'd?  Some  way  of  common  trade,  where  subjects'  feet 

The  King  shall  be  contented .    Must  he  lose  May  hourly  trample  on  their  sovereign'  s  head; 

The  name  of  king?    A  Cod's  name,  let  it  go!  For  on  my  heart  they  tread  now  whilst  I  live; 


The  loose  but  nonetheless  striking  similarity  between  the  situations  of  Major  Molineux  and  Richard 
II--two  once  respected  rulers  who  suffer  the  mortifying  indignities  of  deposition  (indeed,  Major  Molineux 
is  literally  dragged  through  the  king'  s  highway)- -strongly  indicates  that  Hawthorne'  s  adaptation  of  Shake- 
speare' s  words  was  no  mere  innocent  or  coincidental  use  of  what  by  the  time  of  the  nineteenth  century  may 
well  have  become  a  familiar,  household  expression.    Just  how  deep  an  imprint  Richard'  s  speech  made  on 
Hawthorne  becomes  clear  in  light  of  the  fact  that  eighteen  years  later,  in  The  Scarlet  Letter,  he  used  the 
same  heart  figure  to  describe  the  torment  of  the  abashed  Hester  Prynne:    "It  was  no  great  distance,  in 
those  days,  from  the  prison-door  to  the  market-place.    Measured  by  the  prisoner's  experience,  however, 
it  might  be  reckoned  a  journey  of  some  length;  for,  haughty  as  her  demeanour  was,  she  perchance  under- 
went an  agony  from  every  footstep  of  those  that  thronged  to  see  her,  as  if  her  heart  had  been  flung  into  the 
street  for  them  all  to  spurn  and  trample  upon. "4 

California  State  University,  San  Diego 


1  See  "Hawthorne's  Hive  of  Honey,"  MLN,  61  (January,   1946),   14-21. 

2  Hawthorne:    Selected  Tales  and  Sketches  (N.Y.:  Holt,  Rinehart  and  Winston,   1970),  pp.  44-45.    Italics 
throughout  this  article  are  inserted  by  the  writer. 

3  "The  Tragedy  of  King  Richard  the  Second"  in  The  Complete  Works  of  Shakespeare,  ed.  Irving  Ribner 
and  George  Lyman  Kittredge  (Waltham,  Mass.,  and  Toronto:    Ginn  and  Company,   1971),  III.iii.143- 146 
and  155-157. 

4  The  Scarlet  Letter,  ed.  Terrence  Martin  (N.Y. :    World  Publishing  Company,   1967),  p.  53. 

OLIVER  WENDELL  HOLMES'S  RHYMED  PROBLEM  jill  perkins 


The  reading  of  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes'  s  "The  Deacon'  s  Masterpiece"  as  a  humorous  allegory  of  the 
breakdown  of  Calvinism  was  first  asserted  by  Barrett  Wendell  at  the  turn  of  the  century  and  has  been  all  but 
universally  subscribed  to  since.    Says  Wendell  in  his  Literary  History  of  America:     "In  1857,  nearly  a 
hundred  years  after  the  death  of  [Jonathan]    Edwards,  the  most  familiar  and  unanswerable  comment  on  his 
system  appeared.    Often  misunderstood,  generally  thought  no  more  than  a  piece  of  comic  extravagance,  Dr. 
Holmes'  s  '  One-Hoss  Shay'  is  really  among  the  most  pitiless  satires  in  our  language.    Born  and  bred  a  Cal- 
vinist,  Holmes,  who  lived  in  the  full  tide  of  Unitarian  hopefulness,  recoiled  from  the  appalling  doctrines 
which  had  darkened  his  youth.    He  could  find  no  flaw  in  their  reasoning,  but  he  would  not  accept  their  con- 
clusion. "1    Most  editors  of  anthologies  and  some  of  Holmes's  critics  and  biographers  have  repeated  this 
assertion  in  one  form  or  another  until  it  has  become  a  tenet  of  received  literary  interpretation.    Louis 
Untermyer  calls  the  poem  a  "light  hearted  rondo, "  the  symbol  of  the  "collapse  of  the  Calvinistic  regime,  "^ 
and  Alfred  Kreymborg  pronounces  "the  farcical  One-Hoss  Shay  a  relentless  survey  of  the  breakdown  of  Cal- 
vinism, "  by  which  that  "moribund  sect"  became  the  butt  of  his  "wittiest  warfare.  "3    In  Oliver  Wendell 
Holmes :    Representative  Selections ,  S.I.  Hayakawa  and  Howard  Mumford  Jones  stress  "logic"  (iterated  in 
the  subtitle  and  closing  line)  as  the  key  to  a  direct  link  with  Calvinist  theologians,  who  arrived  at  their  con- 
clusions with  impeccable  reasoning  but  with  no  allowance  for  the  human  element .    They  see  the  poem  as  a 
serious,  albeit  humorous,  allegory  of  a  Calvinistic  system  in  which  problems  are  worked  out  in  intellectual 
vacuums --"without,  that  is,   'primary  relations  with  truth. '"4    in  her  study,  Miriam  Rossiter  Small  notes 
the  "burden  of  allegory"  but  argues  that  even  the  most  reluctant  reader --if  he  reads  closely- -must  opt  for 
the  tale  as  an  account  of  the  downfall  of  Calvinism.    "The  dates  of  1755  and  1855,  "  she  says,  "are  as  care- 
fully given  as  the  proper  wood  for  spokes  and  thills,  crossbars  and  panels. "5 

The  argument  as  to  whether  the  poem  is  a  parallel  of  the  limitations  of  Calvinist  orthodoxy  (or --an 
allegory  of  its  total  precipitation,  as  most  commentators  insist)  must  take  into  account  both  the  content  and 
context  of  the  poem  as  well  as  such  extrinsic  evidence  as  Dr.  Holmes'  s  life-long  antipathy  to  his  formative 
Calvinist  indoctrination,  an  animus  that  the  allegorical  exponents  seem  particularly  fond  of  stressing.  First, 
one  might  consider  the  poem  within  its  immediate  contexts .    It  originally  appeared  in  The  Atlantic  Monthly 


106 

for  September,   1858 ,°  and  was  published  in  The  Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table  in  the  same  year.    It  ap- 
peared in  Section  XI,  at  a  point  when  the  Autocrat  has  been  discussing  puns  and  riddles  with  his  breakfast- 
mates  .    After  submitting  a  few  of  the  conundrums  that  have  been  bandied  about  the  table,  Holmes  offers  the 
reader  an  example  of  "a  rhymed  problem  wrought  out  by  my  friend  the  Professor"  as  "an  approach  to  the 
absurd  or  ludicrous."   After  this  brief  prefatory  comment  the  poem  follows.7    When  it  later  appeared  in  an 
illustrated  edition,  the  following  headnote,  written  by  Dr.  Holmes,  prefaced  "The  Deacon's  Masterpiece": 
'"The  Wonderful  One-Hoss  Shay'  is  a  perfectly  intelligible  conception  whatever  material  difficulties  it  pre- 
sents .    It  is  conceivable  that  a  being  of  an  order  superior  to  humanity  should  so  understand  the  conditions 
of  matter  that  he  could  construct  a  machine  which  should  go  to  pieces,  if  not  into  its  constituent  atoms,  at 
a  given  moment  of  the  future.    The  mind  may  take  a  certain  pleasure  in  this  picture  of  the  impossible.  The 
event  follows  as  a  logical  sequence  of  the  presupposed  condition  of  things .    [11]     There  is  a  practical  lesson 
to  be  got  out  of  the  story.    Observation  shows  us  in  what  point  any  particular  mechanism  is  most  likely  to 
give  way.    In  a  wagon,  for  instance,  the  weak  point  is  where  the  axle  enters  the  hub  or  nave.    When  the 
wagon  breaks  down,  three  times  out  of  four,  I  think,  it  is  at  this  point  that  the  accident  occurs.    The  work- 
man should  see  to  it  that  the  part  should  never  give  way;  then  find  the  next  vulnerable  place,  and  so  on,  un- 
til he  arrives  logically  at  the  perfect  result  attained  by  the  deacon.  "8    In  light  of  Holmes'  s  admitted  in- 
terest here  in  the  "condition  of  matter"  and  his  speculation  on  the  construction  of  a  machine  in  which  all 
component  parts  give  way  at  the  same  time,  it  seems  rather  doubtful  that  he  would  obfuscate  any  allegori- 
cal intention  with  this  particular  burden.    If  he  was  interested  in  having  the  reader  draw  a  theological 
parallel,  he  was  certainly  beclouding  the  issue- -at  the  outset,  to  boot- -with  authorial  comment  ringing  in 
one'  s  ears .    Holmes  says  that  the  story  of  the  shay  offers  a  "practical"  lesson.    He  is  being  ponderous  in 
a  witty  way,  especially  when  he  discusses  wagon  construction,  and  it  is  a  gigantic  leap  from  this  homely 
and  workaday  discussion  of  the  wainwright'  s  craft  to  an  expectation  of  the  reader'  s  realization  that  the 
poet'  s  prelude  is  but  a  lead-in  to  the  contemplation  of  doctrinal  breakdown. 

The  poem  itself  offers  a  few  problems  for  allegorizers  .    In  their  note  to  "The  Deacon'  s  Masterpiece,  " 
Hayakawa  and  Jones  cite,  as  one  of  his  witty  hits,  Holmes'  s  allusion  to  the  date:    "seventeen  hundred  and 
fifty -five  /  George  secundus  was  then  alive-- ."    Holmes'  s  deacon  finished  his  shay  in  that  year,  the  devas- 
tating Lisbon  earthquake  occurred  then  (raising  questions  in  many  quarters  as  to  God'  s  agency),  but  Jona- 
than Edwards'  masterpiece --The  Freedom  of  the  Will- -appeared  a  year  earlier  in  1754,  although  with  the 
new -style  calendar  it  might  have  been  interpreted  as  1754/55.    George  Arms  believes  that  if  Holmes  had 
specified  1754,  the  "major  direction  of  the  satire  would  have  been  clinched,  "9  though  he  is  not  entirely  will- 
ing to  discount  such  a  reading  in  spite  of  the  possible  discrepancy  in  the  dates .    But  further,  according  to 
what  Holmes  actually  tells  us  in  the  poem,  the  deacon  had  built  a  shay  that  will  not  break  down  because  of 
having  a  "weakes'  place,  "  but  a  machine  intended  to  last  forever;  every  part  was  to  be  as  strong  as  the  next, 
i.e. ,  incapable  of  breaking  down  before  the  next  part.    In  a  hundred  years  to  the  day,  the  shay  did  go  to 
pieces --all  at  once.    True  to  the  architect'  s  plan,  it  did  not  collapse  at  some  vulnerable  spot.    Calvinism 
did  begin  going  to  pieces  because  of  some  weak  links  in  Dr.  Holmes'  s  Boston  long  before  it  lost  its  hold  in 
the  hinterlands.    Its  demise  was  gradual,  therefore,  in  contrast  to  that  of  the  "one-Hoss  Shay,  "  whose  end 
came  "all  at  once  and  nothing  first  /  Just  as  bubbles  do  when  they  burst.  "10 

That  the  poem  is  sub -titled  "A  Logical  Story,  "  that  Jonathan  Edwards'  treatise  was  generally  con- 
sidered a  masterpiece  of  Puritan  logic,  and  that  Holmes  had  elsewhere  attacked  Calvinism  and  its  chief 
American  apologist  in  vehement  terms  are  the  principal  'facts'  upon  which  the  allegory  argument  is  founded. 
As  Eleanor  M.  Tilton  suggests  in  her  biography  of  Dr.  Holmes  the  poem  may  be  seen  as  a  satire  "on  any 
logical  system  (not  necessarily  Calvinism)  supposed  by  its  authors  to  be  perfect,  uncorrectable,  and,  there- 
fore, everlasting."    She  elaborates  on  this  in  an  interesting  note  to  her  text:    "The  poem  applies  quite  as 
well  to  any  'system, '  that  of  the  homeopathist  Hahnemann,  for  instance.    In  tracking  down  the  source  of 
this  common  interpretation  [allegory  of  Calvinism]  ,  the  late  T.  E.  Currier  traced  it  to  Barrett  Wendell. 
A  letter  by  Justice  Holmes  to  a  correspondent  who  inquired  about  the  verses,  says  that  he  never  heard  his 
father  give  them  such  a  meaning  (a.s.  Jan.  31,  1930,  privately  owned).    A  letter  to  Theodore  Parker  (Sept. 
15,   1858,  L.BK.  78),  in  which  Holmes  does  not  mention  the  poem'  s  being  anti-Calvinistic,  might  be  rele- 
vant here  if  it  were  not  for  the  fact  that  Holmes  was  intent  upon  correcting  Parker'  s  medical  delusion. 
Parker's  letter  (same  date,  LC),  commenting  upon  the  poem  with  a  somewhat  heavy  handed  humor,  treats 
it  simply  as  an  hilarious  piece  and  blames  his  sore  throat  on  the  laughter  it  provoked.    Holmes'  s  answer 
picks  up  the  medical  motif  and  offers  two  mock  prescriptions,  one  'allopathic'  and  the  other  homeopathic, 
for  he  knew  that  Parker  had  at  one  time  been  exposed  to  the  'dangerous  influences'  of  homeopathy."1! 
George  Arms,  adverting  to  Miss  Tilton'  s  persuasion  in  the  matter,  concedes  that  "Holmes'  s  refusal  to 


107 

specify  the  immediate  direction  of  his  comment:    'Logic  is  logic.    That'  s  all  I'  11  say,  "  might,  indeed,  re- 
fer to  "the  logic  of  a  tightly  constructed  system  but  as  well  to  that  of  a  well-made  shay  or  poem, "  and  he 
concludes  that  the  story  perhaps  functions  as  a  pertinent  comment  not  only  on  Calvinism,  but  on  homeopathy, 
and  even  manufacturing.  12    Miss  Tilton  and  Mr .  Arms  are  virtually  alone  in  a  small  army  of  allegory-ad- 
herents who  are  willing  to  put  qualifications  on  the  suspected  theological  implications . 

What  no  critic  has  alluded  to  in  the  commentary  of  the  last  forty  years  is  an  article  by  William  Stet- 
son Merrill  in  The  Catholic  World:    "Centenary  of  the  Autocrat"  deals  principally  with  the  Autocrat  papers 
on  the  occasion  of  the  one -hundredth  anniversary  of  the  publication  of  the  first  in  the  New  England  Maga- 
zine.13  Merrill  had  wondered  in  the  course  of  his  investigations  whether  Dr.  Holmes'  s  poem  had  been,  in 
fact,  a  "sly  thrust"  at  Calvinism.    Knowing  nothing  of  Justice  Holmes's  letter  (noted  by  Miss  Tilton),  writ- 
ten just  two  years  previously,  and  finding  nothing  on  the  matter  in  the  Life  and  Letters  of  Oliver  Wendell 
Holmes,  he  addressed  a  query  to  John  T.  Morse,  Jr. ,  who  was  the  author  of  the  two -volume  Life  and 
Holmes's  nephew.    He  replied:    "I  have  yours  of  the  2nd.  inst.  asking  sundry  questions  about  Dr.  Holmes. 
The  first  query  is  as  to  the  famous  'One-Hoss  Shay.'   Of  course  it  is  easy  to  see  how  it  could  be  construed 
as  a  'satire  or  skit  on  Calvinism.'    But  I  must  say  that  I  think  such  a  suggestion  would  astonish  the  good 
Doctor  very  much.    Its  ingenuity  would  tickle  his  fancy  immensely.    But  I  would  be  willing  to  wage  a  con- 
siderable sum  that  he  would  say  that  no  such  thought  was  'in  the  back  of  his  head. '    It  would  be  a  unique  in- 
stance of  such  a  method  of  working  on  his  part;  and  though  it  interests  me  and  amuses  me,  I  cannot  accept 
it  as  an  idea  of  his  own.    I  knew  my  Uncle  quite  intimately  and  of  course  we  talked  freely  together . "   As 
Justice  Holmes  disclaimed  any  knowledge  of  an  intended  parallel  on  his  father'  s  part,  Mr .  Morse  thinks 
his  uncle  would  have  been  "astonished"  at  such  a  reading,  and  it  seems  probable  that  Mr .  Morse  was  better 
acquainted  with  Holmes'  s  literary  life  than  his  son,  being  not  only  a  relative  but  his  confidant  and  biographer 
as  well.    Morse  freely  admitted  Holmes'  s  interest  in  Calvinism --both  in  the  biography  and  in  his  article  in 
the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica  (eleventh  edition),  where  he  stated  that  "by  heredity  the  Doctor  was  a  theologian; 
no  other  topic  enchained  him  more  than  did  the  stern  and  merciless  dogmas  of  his  Calvinistic  forefathers. 
His  humanity  revolted  against  them,  and  he  set  himself  to  their  destruction  as  his  task  in  Literature."    De- 
spite this  second  statement,  however,  Morse  was  unable  to  accept  an  allegorical  reading,  even  as  an  idea 
that  might  have  occurred  to  Holmes  after  the  fact.    A  crucial  sentence  in  the  letter  to  Merrill  seems  to  be: 
"It  would  be  a  unique  instance  of  such  a  method  on  his  part."    Holmes  did,  of  course,  set  upon  the  destruc- 
tion of  Calvinist  doctrine  (which  action,  in  itself,  strongly  suggests  that  he  did  not  see  it  as  having  already 
fallen  apart,  "all  at  once  and  nothing  first")  in  The  Professor  at  the  Breakfast  Table,  Elsie  Venner ,  and 
"Mechanism  in  Thought  and  Morals."    But  in  terms  of  poetical  method,  which  Mr.  Morse  had  discussed  with 
the  Doctor  over  the  years,  the  "sly  thrust"  was  really  too  sly  in  this  case.    It  was  not  Holmes'  s  habit  of 
mind  to  seek  ways  of  obscuring  meaning  in  his  poetry.    In  light  of  his  composition  of  the  headnote  for  the 
1878  edition,  the  poem's  context  in  the  pages  of  The  Autocrat ,  and,  particularly,  Mr.  Morse's  intimate 
acquaintance  with  Holmes'  s  craft,  the  unqualified  affirmations  of  Calvinistic  allegory  appearing  in  so  many 
commentaries  over  the  past  seventy  years  may  be  questioned.    Anyone  wishing  to  divine  a  parallel  between 
the  "One-Hoss  Shay"  and  Calvinism  is  at  liberty  to  infer  one  without  dread  of  any  irrefutable  counter -proof; 
perhaps  such  a  reading  actually  enhances  the  appeal  of  the  poem .    It  certainly  furnishes  an  entertaining  little 
glimpse  of  the  persistent  liveliness  of  scholarly  myth. 

University  of  Southern  California 

1  (N.Y.:  Scribner's,  1900),  p.  90.    In  tracking  down  the  source  of  the  prevailing  interpretation  of  the  poem 
as  Calvinist  allegory,  T.  F.  Currier  (Holmes'  s  bibliographer)  traced  it  to  Barrett  Wendell.    See  Eleanor 
M.  Tilton'  s  Amiable  Autocrat:   A  Biography  of  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes.    (N.Y.:    Henry  Schuman,   1947),  p. 
420,  n23. 

2  American  Poetry  from  the  Beginning  to  Whittier  (N.Y.:  Harcourt,  Brace,   1931),  p.  404. 

3  A  History  of  American  Poetry:  Our  Singing  Strength  (N .  Y . :  Tudor,   1934),  p.  134. 

4  American  Writer's  Series  (N.Y.:  American  Book  Company,   1939),  p.  456. 

5  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  (N.Y.:  Twayne,   1962),  p.  99.         6    P.  496,  in  the  section  "The  Autocrat . " 

7  (Boston:  Houghton,  Mifflin,   1895),  p.  252. 

8  The  One-Hoss  Shay,  illustrated  by  J .  F.  Goodridge  (Boston:  Heliotrope  Printing).  Eleanor  M.  Tilton, 
editor  of  the  Holmes  bibliography  prepared  by  T.  F.  Currier  (N.Y.:  New  York  University  Press,  1953), 
questions  the  date  of  this  edition.  The  headnote  printed  herein  appeared  in  The  Complete  Poetical  Works 
of  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Cambridge  edition  edited  by  H.  E.  Scudder  (Boston:  Houghton,  Mifflin,   1895). 

9  The  Fields  Were  Green  (Palo  Alto:  Stanford  University  Press,   1953),  p.  112. 

10  Though  he,  too,  speaks  of  "the  One-Hoss  Shay  of  Calvinism"  in  The  Flowering  of  New  England  (N.Y. : 
Dutton,  1940),  Van  Wyck  Brooks  does  note  that  "Calvinism  was  laughed  at  in  Boston  and  at  Harvard  [though] 
it  was  no  laughing  matter  in  the  country"  (p.  489). 


108 

11  Amiable  Autocrat,  p.  240,  pp.  419-420  n23. 

12  The  Fields  Were  Green,  p.  113.    And,  too,  the  poem  may  be  seen  as  an  imaginative  re-creation  of  the 
poet^Town  grandfather,  David  Holmes,  captain  in  the  French  and  Indian  War,  surgeon  in  the  Revolution, 
who  did  build  a  one-horse  chaise. 

13  CXXXIV  (February  1932),  581-586.    Holmes's  first  paper,  entitled  "Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table" 
and  signed  "O.  W.  H. ,  "  appeared  in  November,   1831.    It  was  not  included  in  The  Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast 


Table . 


jp- 


AYLMERS  DIVINE  ROLES  IN  "THE!  BIRTHMARK"  t .  ^ 

4*> 


A  significant  aspect  of  Hawthorne'  s  concern  with  spiritual  values  and  with  science  can  be  found  in  his 
short  story  "The  Birthmark, "  in  which  he  portrays  Aylmer  in  terms  of  the  Christian  God --Father,  Son,  and 
Holy  Spirit- -and  describes  the  relationship  between  Aylmer  and  Georgiana  in  terms  of  traditional  Puritan 
ideas  of  conversion.  *    By  these  ironic  allusions  Hawthorne  criticizes  the  pretensions  of  science  and  asserts 
the  necessity  for  humility  in  all  men.    An  initial  clue  to  Hawthorne'  s  method  for  achieving  these  ends  is  the 
name  of  Aylmer'  s  servant,  Aminadab.    In  the  Bible  he  is  head  of  a  Levitical  family  (I  Chr .  15:  11-12)  and 
a  priest  of  God.^    In  "The  Birthmark,  "  however,  he  tends  the  hellish  furnace,  and  is  called  "clod,  "  "ma- 
chine," and  "manofclay."     Through  this  contrast  of  name  and  function  Hawthorne  suggests  the  godlike  preten- 
sions of  Aylmer  and  undercuts  these  pretensions  by  reference  to  the  real  situation  of  Aylmer'  s  "priest. " 
This  ironic  pattern  operates  throughout  the  story.    Aylmer  functions  as  God  the  Father  in  many  ways:   he 
constructs  a  new  Eden  for  Georgiana  while  the  birthmark  is  removed,  creates  apparent  miracles  of  beauty 
and  life  to  reassure  her,  and  causes  prodigies  of  growth  and  regeneration  in  plant  life.    Aylmer'  s  "Eden" 
is  artificial,  however,  and  cannot  bear  the  natural  light  of  the  sun,  his  figures  of  beauty  are  only  illusions, 
and  his  miracles  with  various  plants  are  all  unfinished  or  abortive .    Hawthorne  portrays  Aylmer  as  Christ 
when  he  describes  the  scientist'  s  obsession  to  remove  the  birthmark,  the  "fatal  flaw  of  humanity,  "  from 
Georgiana .    But  instead  of  sacrificing  himself  to  this  end  Aylmer  ironically  sacrifices  Georgiana  and  her 
"salvation"  leads  only  to  death.    Similarly,  Aylmer  also  assumes  the  role  of  the  Holy  Spirit.    He  preserves 
Georgiana'  s  faith  in  him  and  in  his  promise  of  perfection  by  converting  her  from  complacent  acceptance  of 
the  birthmark  to  an  obsessive  concern  to  eradicate  the  imperfection.    Again,  this  role  is  ironic:    his  en- 
couragement of  Georgiana  leads  to  her  death  and  her  faith  in  him  brings  her  destruction. 

The  ironic  function  of  Aylmer'  s  divine  roles  becomes  complete  when  his  relationship  to  Georgiana  is 
seen  in  contrast  to  the  typical  Puritan  pattern  of  conversion,  following  the  outlines  of  which  Georgiana  is  at 
first  unaware  of  her  flaw,  then  becomes  repelled  by  her  imperfection,  and  finally  places  her  faith  in  Aylmer 
to  "save"  her  by  removing  the  mark.    With  Aylmer'  s  aid,  this  is  accomplished,  and  Georgiana  becomes, 
finally,  "perfect."   This  progression  from  the  acceptance  of  imperfection  to  an  overwhelming  desire  for  per- 
fection, and  the  movement  through  various  steps  along  the  way,  strongly  echoes  traditional  Puritan  notions 
of  conversion:   an  awakening  to  sin,  doubt  and  despair  about  the  remedy,  increased  confidence  in  salvation 
through  the  offices  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  final  conversion  and  salvation.    Georgiana  has,  in  effect,  made  a 
"covenant"  with  Aylmer  to  release  her  from  natural,  human  limitations .    Hawthorne  indicates  this  explicitly 
at  the  end  of  the  story  by  reference  to  the  rainbow,  the  Old  Testament  symbol  of  the  covenant  between  man 
and  God.    But  Georgiana'  s  conversion  is  spurious  and  her  covenant  with  Aylmer  based  on  self-delusion  and 
false  hope.    As  creator,  Aylmer  can  only  produce  illusions;  as  savior,  he  brings  only  death;  and  as  pre- 
server and  sanctifier  he  works  in  ignorance  and  false  pride .    By  the  ironic  use  of  divine  roles  for  Aylmer 
and  by  portraying  his  relationship  with  Georgiana  as  a  near -parody  of  salvation,  Hawthorne  criticizes  the 
excessive  claims  of  science  and  adds  another  dimension  to  his  plea  for  sympathetic  vision  of  human  imper- 
fection. 
Georgia  State  University 

1  R.  B.  Heilman' s  study  "Hawthorne' s  '  The  Birthmark'  :  Science  and  Religion",  SAQ,  48  (1949),  575-583, 
catalogues  the  use  of  religious  terminology  and  imagery  in  the  short  story  but  does  not  attempt  to  place  this 
imagery  within  the  Puritan  concept  of  the  covenant  or  to  explore  Aylmer'  s  divine  roles  in  detail. 

2  For  a  more  detailed  treatment  of  Aminadab,  see  W.  R.  Thompson,   "Aminadab  in  Hawthorne's  'The  Birth- 
mark,'"MLN,  70(1955),  413-415. 


109 


>t>af»rt,a2*rt.oa> 

•a 

1 

a 

th  her  cargo  of  nai 

ances  of  the  case,  h 

sst  in  this  country, 

the  facts  of  this  ex 

and  the  compiler 

his  command,  for 

has  been  made  ot  w 

and  others,  have  p 

e  compiler  has  also 

rsation  with  them, 

reter,  and  has  confi 

J.  W.  I 

a  j 

i    a 
CO    u 

g! 

>->  <-, 
fc,  ° 

w 

3  o 

V 

listad  wi 
circumst 
of  inter< 
?ment  of 
desirable, 
ilities  at 
Free  use 
College, 
ns.     Th 
al  conve 
e  Interp 
f  facts. 

< 
fa 

—    1' 
.i-  <_ 

to     cj 

Pn 

fee 
go 

The  capture  of 
fricans,  and  the  p 
cited  an  unusual 
Europe.     A  corr 
dinary  case,  is  d 
ailed  himself  of 
tainment  of  this  o 
rofessor  Gibbs,  o 
hed  respecting  th 
e  opportunity  of 
eans  of  James  C 
mself  to  a  bare  re 

New  Haven,  Ct.,  Mi 

O     ~ 

to  — 
.5    es~ 

1    S 

CJ      h; 

a  fc 

1                                  

O  2  .9  S  5  «  d<  a  -a  s  a                                             1 

W 

PS) 

O    B 

H    S 

w    ° 

H 


GO 

w 

hH 

Eh 

Ph 

<J 
O 

P 
<1 
H 

GO 


a> 
o 
o 

CJ 

►J. 

<< 
w 

S3 

o 

HO 


H 

A 

tf 

<*1 

H 

n3 

(XJ 

.« 

H 

Ph 

O 

n 

O 

o 

■« 

o 

w 

55 

0 

M 

0 

fc 

O 

H 

l-H 

ot 

<* 

■Is 
u 

K 

O 

5 

w 

3 

Pi 

(4 

C5 

0) 

t>3 

u. 

ht< 

o 

§ 

■< 

>H 

?! 

O 
►J 

Eh 

o 

O 

tn 

> 

2 

« 
H 

5a 


W 

W 

EH 

W 

w 

-el 
O 
i— i 

W 

Ph 

O 


w 

55 

Hi 

o 

»-( 

< 

O 
55 


a 
OT 

W 

a 

b. 
O 

a 

HI 

w 

en 

O 


H-H 


Pfi5 
Eh 

W 
Eh 


5  S 

H     H 


g  a 

co     Q 

B 
H 


o 
tn 

Id 

H 

H 

,     H 

H      ■ 

9    ft 

»  e 

w    u 
SB 

I- 


oo 

u 

o 

« 

■, 

a 

<a 

o 

OT 

W  ci 

n  ■ 

i5 

HiS 

W 

CQ  H 

a 

H 

a 

tfi 

< 

r. 

o 

K2 

O  S 

a 
w 

-•  * 

s  a 


i 

C9 


H         g 
S5   «  9 

LU       H 

ps  >.  S 

w  „  o 

°  i 


O 

Q0 


110 


g-s!  I- -I  N  8  &S  **  £-5  1-h  3  &■* 

_o?itt-_^i/'w 4.^  bo-* 


0OJ 


^  ,2  £  it  15 -a  2 

2^ 


o.S 
•5      <2  w  So 

T1   *£  _£     ^TJ     n;     ^    Li     c 


.2  -  ..    .iSrsjett^lj^-tjCu,, 


■S  o. 

a . 


a 

a  a 


of 


C3  T3 


_    w    *#  -i—    *-    v 

-i  «Z  ^"O  >* 


a  o  h—  j=  ra  „  X)  c  .5 !    ■ 


bo-ac! 


IS    „ 


«J  o 


«  6 


re   rt  «  <u  c  to  — 


TO    4/ 


U  ' 


■2jn 


2jS    OTT 

sf  s  s  ?  S-* 

2  a 


■a  a  o  f-a  o  «j  i 

-  »  ■*  —  it  •;  s-  < 


«  *•  *-  •=  2  S:  is     rt?  „  2  -  s^H-g 


■=■  o  JT     -d  «       » ^  - 


a.  o 

D    o 
(A    « 


p*  o  v  o  5  .a 

S.-5  x.5  S- 


a 


£9.9 

a/  5  "  £*>«•£  >i 

5  3  «  58  Sg-a^  g-:-g|  "fir  3  S"S-« 


iTOlffiltniiflisiii 


ifl&i  gilt"  s|  S  |f  fr,-I  SJ5l| 

'^  5  £C  "-■  j;Y  £*■$  J  2io  o  c  g  =  f  5 "O  g 


iS.9*Bs"S5si«£"S  -sf  i=-2 

*llS'sl»a;^sIi|isg|ll 

"    ,"2  22.S 


►.o    .■=o-oj=s5*S--'0c? 

B"5"-Sfta 


■S  ■  B 


a)o^J;c=-a0J 
t«-  S  ■  ■-  £•  o  S  "-s  »  S  w  i.     "a  -c  - 

^  •-  -- ■  «:  "a    „    _   _^>   **•-■«   ff   a.1:*    n,   „.    — ■« 


,«oj: 


3  o  o  SL 
Si's  —  "c  *  s 


^&^ 


^3 


*  -M    tlTS  "      -   V  T  ■ 


o 

H 


rt    rt    O  " "  cd 
^    o   ^   h   >n 


is 


.2  >-,£ 


"■5 


> 

|PU| 

<! 

o 

ft 
;H 

IH  1  !1 


^  «  «  s  >• 
^  B  -  a  •  j> 


o 


,8 '3  9  fc-3  " 

•  ■3   5    ?  rv.    ® 

>    "^  a  s  k 

^  Z  -a  3  2  a 
■§  "3  sf "  «  a 

S|iS  g-,2 

S"5  1  S  2  " 

5po  a.a'g 

tf-f  S^l 

2  2  S^-12  »-•?  -5J3 


v 

CD 
■ 

V 

t* 

to 
|r, 

II 

*  a 
►S  a 

ll 


5  * 5  b>»s '3  **rt 


3gsS2 


a  <u  a 
to  ~  o 


.gg-o-^-S^gg-gSTs  Od 


■« *  «  c  2  2   -c° 


._,  g  Bo  «"■«  rt  «  __ , 

S  >  b  ■  a  d  N  «2  - 

,   .  a  -.  S  -  no  «a  d  2  -a 


^  S^  o 

«    -    >-    o 


55 


18 


«S>-r"J;-a'~   ~ 


_  v  «2  S^  iu 

d  ja^;  ^xi 


"sfdilSl 


Ill 


v  a 
x>fl" 

*-i 

2  So 

co  -a 
«   g 

-  «  5 

e  S  * 
o  ©  o 

B.S.S 

a  bc£ 

a>  o  a 


^°  =  J"  J 

pill! 

™  °  a  o>>  S  9- 

USjaft 

£■2-9  5  |3  S 


-/  E  s  « -n  .y 


«B    6      -  O    W 


3 


.  fill  <" 


t(.e    3 


83 


e-9 


r    V  &<  .2  -    X  pQ  H  ij    rt  .2    H    fr  "B 


tick, 


.      *  — 

-  v  f  a 
.2-S  g-2  -  9j< 

c   -.3-3  *  3  & 


3 

* KQ.s:a,,-/. 


.  p|  k  7n    -     :a  a  ., 

P-5  H 


"So„- 


%  w  -g"  •-  | w  q  ~  g  ■a 
»  «  sot*  ^.o-g 


t-*a 


o 

.5 

»  S   C 

b"  S   «» 


111 


„  tP-.  a  .  rt 
•o  l-  _  <->  H  a>  "9 
"  ™  5  c  a  K 
t»  hrt  O    O  .9  .    •    "J 

oj  S     •  cs't  «  ^ 

K.    g    J)    O    \f  J3      • 


rj    .jo  «^  o  5  g 
s-j   -.5  rfSHH^tS 


?  2  K  u    . 
,o  o-i«  —  .5  3 

g  §■  n  ts  <?  &a 

Wcr^Wtn  a"2  „-§^«* 

m  -    I"-*-? Sr2ooii  = 


4j     0> 

§i 

.3 
1 1 

CXI  {J 

-I 

.9 


S9§^l5 

O*  *•  it  o 


:-=.  j3  <u  a  m 


>al. 


SsSS. 


•*  S  fc  « 

sin's  -I 


■a  K  t.  o-o  . 
a  a>  o  S  ft  £ 


Ji 


H  t  8  N^l  W5I  cl<£  1 1  I'll  >'3 1 ?  -  i    £  ^-s 

8  -  °  -p  8  ■ 


CO 


a>.H, 

Ik 


e  n 


So 
29 


II 


*! 


c^6  *  j=  a       Feci 

«  £  fea 
■c  *    -  O 

«  —2  !? 


o  S  S  „-  «  s 


E  H  S       at© 

F  =  v  ;"  u  a 

a  08  S  °  S 

T3  .2   «   0)   >  ■? 


!  M  w  > 


to,  2:  °°  - 
^  =  '5.o 

g   to   0-° 

aS-Sj; 
cq  >»<r^* 


3-5> 


Ml  .-5° 

S  B  fi  ft  CO  ^ 

■a"  »«S  ° 

*".£5  '•   rt  a 
£  £-3  si: -a.? 

a  a 


oj  —  ■ 


cute  a 

S  ="c  o 
-S  ?  ° 

2S|- 

la" 

<U   *J  aj  ^J,B<Urt  Kn.Jl 

i  S  ta  x  £  5  «  J!  3 


c  a 

«  w 
S  rt 
aw 
^  2J 
a  « 


-a 


S3    £  *    <d    S 

e  tt  o  fa  a 

6^6  S3 


5J 

«    to    „) 

E-S  5 
e,5« 


a>  us 


o 

■la 

o 

-d 

CD 
hi 

O. 

ja 
u 

s 

es 

"tf 

rt 


a-6 

s  c 

a  3  o  © 
<»  •-  —   CB 

^5  J  S 


»  b  "e  a  b  ►,-« 

J-  °  o)  »  »  5 

^    ctl  C    rt!   t  -9   « 
■2  ,       **  CD      .O    J; 

-  o  "3       Oh   ■  <— ■ 

Sim  a 


C    S    rt 


a 


llj 


^  B    4)    . 

fcH  CJ       «  Cg       ^ 

rt  o   a             <o 

<ii   **  a  ^  m"  hO 


oj«*  a  "3   b 

3  §  -S  b0.§ 


v  _ 

VI     fl 
GO  ••■* 

o   „   o   i; 


SO 


3  5  _u^ 

B         .5 
T3    4J 

a  <» 
a  «j 

2  "" 


T!   to 

■a* 


rt 


.«.b.S 


a 


B  .Sr 

Ct)  'cB 


CJ     CD 


P,b8 

.9  '3  £ 


M    >-<  T3 

bo  o  O  9 
5  °    •  § 


b  »— 

O  B  XI 

a  fl*-fl 

CD  t-1 


a-  a 

sscxJ 


.2  1«l 


C    CD 
CD    o 

X3    **     CD 
a    rt    rt 

o  -fl 


!* 


cd  ,a 


J 


Ii"2-|il5rli£.la^ 

ifiisiSIiasfigj 

if? 


rt  *»   ft  *S         « 
o  <3   S   -,    E   J 


>Ci3 


_  "  S 

rt    O    ? 
CD 


O    <D 
CJ     fl 

fl 


fl    S 
CD    O 

•J    C'H    O    ""w    -i 


3.3 


s:    a 


S  to  *  —  9  3  o  z  ■  ■  S-jZt*S'S  5 


'O   ■  .5     -a   o- 
|  «  .2  c?o-g  -g  g 
i>  o  c  w  a 

13    *    CD    S 

a 


<D 


s'li 


a  J  -ft  °'.^ 

^    ri     TO  to.  ^O 

-2^^rtfe?© 

°       S  s  §  ■  a 

*  ^   rt   B   «   e« 

<V  *•    CD    O    >    _  T3 


c  T3 

•a  I 

o  a 

S    3 


fl  -5  -2  a  cd 

a 


as  -a  x3  jl  <u  a>  .a  id 

•a  "  o  ^  a:  -a  B  -ai 


-a,-€*l^|20fl 


CO 


CD 
-J3  ' 


^J  ja 


a  rt 

O    O 
CD    rt 

-2  fl  '&  a  _. 

a  o  23  2 

oj  «"ft^  ^    • 
s;        „  *j  q,t3 

a  5  a 


Sag 

^    ^     CD 


53  T3 
CD 


O    O 


fl 

=0^  -5.fi? 


,_J    rt    nj  -B 


-  rt 


CD 


a<!  a 


•  So 


Ct) 


Sv«>2 

>^  ?>-fl  s 


.3 -a 


CB 


rt 


rt  .J2   « 
2  Po 


CO     CD 

-fj  o 

fl    fl  *» 

•a  »  fl 

_  -fl  .a  « 

a  a   bet;  c 

.20  2? 


2^2 


CD 


CD 


rd 


V 


CD 

2 -a 


CD     «D 


rt 

rt  ^ 

fl 
o 


>-  -d. 

■fen 

a  iS  -^     a 

2^La^  2    . 
•a  >>  a  •«  -fj  ^3 


s*s  sills 


_    rt 
T3 


DO 


bb  co  T3  2 

rt    „  «  -* 

CO  *-*  rt 

-  a  ** 


a 

CD 
fl"T3  -S 

cd  a 
rt   o 


rtl      t^      (Id  Q      QJ) 

gi) 


CD 

O     CD 

2xl 


2-^2- 


^^ 


S  >-a 


jS     CD    - 

5   »  -5 


a  • 


O    co 


a  a  cd 

CD     rt     CD 
CD       «   " 


a  cd  i-> 
SdC!  iJ  a  J§  p, 

2   rt"5  2 

c  c  ®  a 

rt    5  j3  XI 


a  rt  __-  oo  a 
o 


>    £  H3    O    © 


i-^-Ja 


m  X 


e 


>  2  xi  °  **  «  a  „ 

-Bo     $M  J       «'g 

bo<^  "" 

a  © 


Xi    Cm  B,U    rt    2-  §    3 


rt 
CD      - 

2  a, 
rt^i 

a  rt 


-     CD  ^ 

^  x  a  So  J  2  2 

<*n  ~  a  rt  ^  *^  cd 

bo  cd       o  a  > 

2  a  xj  j-  a  5  o 

«  rt  "a  a  o.^  iS  _ 

O.J3  °  a  a-      ^  m  s  ti  0.13 


■I  ^ 

rt  1 1  go  3  a  I 
a  co  a  a  >^ 
|-3  rt  ^p 

a  a  ca 


a 
a  cd 

rt  ^3 
"    rt 

E 


E  fl 

a  B 

45  - 

x  „" 


2_2 

CD  X 
bo-" 

rt    §« 

CO 


is  a 

S  so 


fao   -  c 

rt  T3    CD 
CD    —     rt 


rt 


CD 


St'Sl 


B  a>  ^ 

cd  a  3 

-  cd  -a 

CD  CD 

be  CO  ^     « 


fl.S-ao  2  a^  3 
o  >  a;ax;JJ^^3 

■«9    rt    it    rtT!^3    i 


rt    rt 

X 

CD  CO     i      03 

-    CD  if 


rt  17  "Q    pt  ' 


CD    co 


rt 


3    O 


rt  >M 

CD 


X 


S.-3  a  s  x  s 


-     »j     <D 

§xia 


fl     00 

rt    co 

Si 

fM         CO 

fi  a 

V    rt 


^l?o3 

T3    oo  rt 


^  .2  a  w  cd  ., 
o  £  2  xi  .2  x 

■JS-S3  3 


3 
O 


CD 


rt 


XJ     >     4) 


CD     rt   Xi 

x  s.  2 

u  cs  a 

CD     O     O 
CD  —  • - 

a.  _-  a 
co  ts  a 


CD     CO 


0  ^»,fl     CD 
B  J2    °  T1 

H  "rt     00  HM 


.a  ^3 


g  3'  bo  a  3>a  'S  1 

o  ^g  a  cd  a        >.  « 

m    CD    fl    .    W  -S  ^  T* 

§  2^-5^  as  9 


112 


-.SgSg-g^  SSI'S  "S  go 


« 


N 


•    3    _, 

w  5  S  -a  -  jt  g 

S'S'S'S  82-  g-g  g-g^U 

J3    <A    |-  T3  -«    «    o"  W'  2    2 

^!  t«  S  n  rt"9^^-S  n  0:3 


3  «  a 

1-        rt 


-  «  ja  a  ro 


§    «    s.Ss8      -fl'S^S^S 

nS^02£o<-Tp 
.^  5  «  o 
3  a  Je  5  *g  r  —  -  a  0  «»~JS 


-*  is' 


s">a'iig   ^ 

8  jjjffl'S'S  5e'» 
•1  "J1*1  5  a  o  53 


0.2.5 

eo  co  c . 


•°—  Is 

•H  gfc's  S  >>*  , 

c<2  sis  rt  s*  ° 

V«2£sgS* 

£S.2Q|i^-a 


ftiaW  iff  I 

a  a  «.3>2  o  g      js! 


■g'girS'Sfii'SS 

"*SsS«  •013 


ilslj&f 

Sas^*  o u 

—  "»  ja  —  ^ 


MaMJ 

o  ^  w  .9  >* 


■p-3 
2  v 


o  — 


.    Ufl   l   O   c    »    "   fe    "-'* 


•2  s 

c  S  ■=      .0 

o  j;^ 


2  u^  2  I d-^ 

aboJ4"i<«,S3 
.<2-5S^2-.o 


0>    © 


SI25 


i> 


1  f*  V  o  p 


2  fe'  O  u  -a  tj  « 
a  ?  ..rfj  -  a  a 


•29- 


-«D 


.2 


«5-$Si2xS 


I*  !r  o  c 


5,5  o"S 


«^.So 


5 


•°  ".9 


►■s 


^o-n.^ 


«5gSS52.SNa-S8f5^-g 
•£uoS«i;t«citf-2o^S8    > 


2  ?>  2 

s    a 


i5TPKla*g§-" 

-3    S^h^g^^fi 


■lis  Ml 

8ERZI  e8 

S  2£^'2  9 

ll=°ss    ■ 
alalia    f] 


°0  ^^  Si 

O   3  V    rt    O 


*p-S 


|.2srt-ig 


»    li    ; 
>tS    ^    ^ 


9  s  p  <*  J^ 

I  a 

Q  ^"  *™»  Vm    '•i     W     n> 
>    rt    (0    o    5  ►H  ^ 

tirt  ><  a  M  S  3  ?• 

w  I  a  g.s  s  gJ§ 


.0,5 

o  h  .a   t*   ta  <u 


Z  -°  &  8  -a  ^  I  "a 


*>    .       >-    Q    ^  U    O    ? 

S.8-S  S-S  -5  -3 


6X1-3   O    ™    fl   W 


a.-- 
o 


-  w  H 

•j    m    U    II"       „  H 

"g   S.^3  XI    ra    o   <u 
b  J3  T3    U   —    Q  tJ 

«/  u  >-.  o    -ij  a 

cj  -a  be  c  ra       "S 

oj  s   1/  c  a     •  •- 

u  i«"ja  ^  DaS 
•a  =S  o-a  n  S 

«  3  ='"- 

8i  iTo  ng  a 

■S^igM'SS-e 

.a  .s  2  c  ~  &  s 

C<i  .,  ft  a;-!- 
01J3^  o  J3  « 
id  ,-"=  S  w*  c  "2 

Sf'Sv.  tiliB 

«Sbafc  ax* 

3.2  3  2  S^^ 

S  *  f.  u  a  w  S 

'-3-S^gei 


2  k  w  a 


gofe,a^^<lg)g|g0  -°g 

s^-sisalg" 


H 


O     <u     4)  "O 

Bj3  a  — j5 

<"  "  -a  a  2.2j=^ 

«  5  £•=  2-»g 


JT3 


■°  -is  s-a  .^2  « 

_,  o'O  9>  o  D  **  C  u 

H  *a  a)  —  =»  o  .  o.  ~~* 


«  >>a 


Qj  "5  "^    QJ    <ti    #H 

■a  a     —      -  J=      o-^  °H 


■r  §°  °t=  g/*  S^-5  2  a  "  J^^,_?    - 


-  s  s 
S"H~'Ss0l'c:5«'c«4,5«ca2c 

-  >>°  a  g 


a>-i;—  ohnii       a.V2  .5  g  u  h. 

n!.0)^'*'O.c3u-lll'Ol-Co 

=  3jS^j=       £  o  i.  —  g>  &.-o  ~  -a 


s^S^o^-S^tioHti- 

.aiui  c^O  «=S  P 


>-a  W^a  afl  5 

i  J   « 


^3  a,"  a 

,3 .3 '  *  &  .0  o  3 

2?>i^o3-ay^ 


J.  ^g  ;|  51  sS^B  85  S2  -«  §^  £  1 


^  ■ 

—      ._    O    t;    <u^3 

«s  « -r •£ .5 n 

""'So? 


s2  ^o  s735^.S 

-g.^  Si  8^-3 


00  a»  ^ 


^a  £^  «,  a 

-    w    0J    1) 


o  o  ■•-  g  S'S 

n"  H-O  ^  K  to 
&<^>  m  <u  ja  n 


5ca5?i3ou^2.^fH-S.     iijcr 


._  3  -5  ^  P  *  S 

■2-c!  C~JC 

9  Si  «  -■ 
o 


^^wsSS^p.^^' 


CO  O 


S'5 


r.-"  fl.2  «^  a 


113 


_  >»o  o-o^  <o 

•b  i  o  4-  c  n  x 

o  c  >  « — 


s  ■ 


CD  u 


co  «' 


—    "-o 


Co-" 


S.51.1* 


i—  t- 


B- 

C  O  g  ,0  ■ 
2;  _  "s  *"  "a  eo 

W>  o  ,£  <n  — !  pQ  _cd 


_  O 
,OT3   V 


!«■* 


ro 


.  o 

I    B 


•2'-|Mg 

bSot^C 

t»     -a  S  w  B  , 

•5  -5  "  «  C  bo  t-, 
-o  I  g  fl  g  .S  fc 

B-3  S       •"!*( 

•r  o  o  h  a 

60  9  t.  •-  *~  o  .a 

CD         ro  —  _  •_    O 

■5  u  -a  id  =  .2  -a 

P,  c    CD  -B    CD  'S 

•2  co  tea  -f  u    • 

*>  n  t3  •"  .-  —  n    . 

a    *  -       t*. .  v* 

S\  R  S7  a  o  v  a  £ 

'  ■  is  •£,  ? «* 

-B  k  a,        60  □  c< 
-  R  o.^'^fS   § 

«  «    CD    S    -  rfj  M  'S 


§52*B 


■f  n£  kit  I'd 

*  ""^3  S  <u  'J,^  £> 
3  o   c   o   u  «"** 

I  -13  8  •»  ft  .2 
s-f.aaWarS 

■a"""*  IS 


•a 

bB«-«^3 

8-b      .a  J*  .9 

•B  "B         *-    w» 

.3  s  ;ri-i  S  -9 


a8"S«t   .3 
£*"S3g*irS 

w  S  S  =  2#13  ^  ^  ?  «<  « 


JJ  "     ^r^  310^  .™o  ^5 
MB-p"'?-g81S£.S  =  s^ 


v  . 


Us  5  3 


no  *«3  *-•  j» 


"*       P.—  -g 

a  °  >    a 

S  B  ro  o  m 


<^.5 

•S  co  5 

_  t:  -a 


ro  ' 


<-1<2i.ro^  3*.«  kB  n.5«§  is.^ 

(?.-►;    •TarojaCTroM 

^  .51}  •*     S«  o  «j  S  g 
iffg«w»-S     S?3ffl-S£     2?8£a 


^^r  -b 


p  s2 

fcc_o  ro 


S  !J  n"^-i  co    •    sj  co 

TT-2  ^  ~  °  S  W  « 

i>>  S     _     CO  C     cu     >.— 

3  — 
O 


U  Kb  oj  «  10 
^_  o1  ro-B 

^S1^  a 


t)  d  fl  o  to   ■  o 
B.S  — -^—  Sj= 

"SI  el  |d  o- 

.,  o^?M*T3  ro 

^T    B    O    r.    B  — 

■5  ro  B  - -S  co  P3 
a  T  a  B  T  _-  c 


co    v  5    O  -^  W 


«  b  a  2 ro 2 Jl 

»   ->     I     CD 


"cases'? 


bo' 


;« 


co  m  =  -  «j 


r  ^       h  ij  s       •—  <v 

*»  N  ^    °  fj   2  "-    B 


m  Q  H  » <«  -a  !H  &  -c 
S.9        B.2  co        "  « 


2.    -Ii  =  - 

&r  c  g-  qj  ^ 

B   fl    3  "  ■  h 


■    .-  CD      - 

Bt3  H» 
O   - 


"jO 


.S^OS'^-o 

c°  co  °        co  §  CD 

«2^«    S   «J    PT3*. 
.     -  co  Jsi 

b  j<  «  rt       ro  cd  o 

Bo°«S-^ffiS 

S  2  c  co  cg-m  »  g 

Jj-b  o       _  ja       B 

3    CD    CO       .    CO   ti    m 

2  -   -b°  &-a  s" 


.2  ^ 


■S'llgBi-Q 


^ salmis  kg a^&^fe 
g.a.gfig-ajg'SS'sM-sg 


>»  o  « '*" 


02  «m  5n3  « 


2^bP2 


SO    . 

^3  -T3-BT3 


2™0 


S    O-B 

c«  °  " 

I    T3 

■A   a 

rt"' 


2.SP-9 

_    B    - 
™    ™   ^   a  j    3 

°iJ    B  iS  ~    ^ 
""    O    CD  /-«    10 

SfSBS3.§" 

CO    CO    w 


«    CD    9    *>    ti.  T3    _ 

B  -B  £  'E  B  "i  S 

1 — '-B  T1  »,  Z  •"  S  cfl  ^  "       H,    -— ' 
<         0-~       mB-.S^M)       vb 


^5i 


>   w   0) 

4)    loTl 

cu  c   ._ 

as  «  » 
.—  * 

E?«  > 

CO  "B  '3 

"".£  >9 

La 
t  is 


•g  E  £  » 
S  a  o  3 

>,£-- 

■o  .=  ^  g 

gls"«§  .  f  I  2 
Sl«5SJig| 

<"  a  £.£•-  ..i  5 
*  cS  S  a  '3  «  '  - 

o  .2  —  2f fa  ®  o 
.£•„-=  5 -|-§3 

ma   ^   S  -C  (h  q. 


2  «  a  ■  *  ■ 


"<2  s  1 « 

•o  o  «  £  =  - 
■sSs-Sr  ais'S 

em  >>.a  o  ^  .2  5  -- 

j=c.:5o„  -a 

O.J3  TO»«S    j 

a  «*  g-=5  g  » 

•S  J5.S  »  o  g=  S 

^^£00°-*- 
■=  2-=  „  a  «  5  a 


=  &*c:      ^  u  a  a 
£  ■  j;  »2  >  «  § 

f=  »!';  o  v  cu  cj 

•  0=  oSf-i  s  s 


114 


Ml! 


S       ■a  "  a 


■ja  «  a, 

m   W    a 

M  S?s 


S  1  !" 


S3j   4?i 

8.SSP.2K      Sbs^-ras 


D    «    d 
"re    B£" 

2  -  °  «  c 

•o  .r:  2  °  c 
c  t.  °  —  <-> 

gi  ""s- 

--2  sS-s 


5  a  S«  s  B5  c  S  -a  •  •-  3  3 

«>  "  >"S     .&  "*  «  A  «  S  <»  2 

gM  2  s  toa  SS°-ii^2 

£  *«  .a  .2  »r  g  p  q  „,  a  -a  >«  f* 

6" 


*£*j:  jHmffl 


II 

Co  —        .£ 
~  n)  q  aa   re 

f  .2 

.8  «i  ►  is  S 


0 


S  aa  a  5  —  »> 


Si! 


P.       C  «  «  ~  -  js  - 

!H    .  bo  <*  ™  -;  =  _  b 


&a  s  Vri's  § 


"j3    S« 


.S"sS 


'"O   CO   cB    ~  .(8    i= 


^  t*  .2  3  ^  £  i>  „;  fc>J*  -S  °°  S  9  fe  ?  ^  "" 


••a 


:&33a;rg-|^s 


T3  — L^ 


t§§5    a^Ss^M   .a  £.3    SiS 


£,8  3** 

*-  a      S  ** 

.»>  B  a  «_■ 


>a  a 


M   VI   _   o  B 

to-6  s  .a  - 


.*-£  »  a 


to  3  »>  6  % 


"3  a     -c6'c|a!Sc^  . 
-    o  --1 


a- 


.-exsag    .  ■«  c  a  *•  no  ki 


T|p".s2."J?'2S^fi-| 
B"Si-t«S1g"C|.-| 

^    «3j  ri  .«   <i>   H 


t.  2  S-P  m-a 

P    ..  a  -a    . 
•  d  .5  tt  .- 


o^.2S.i^"     'life" 

sswsi*   i5»3Eta 


V  M  bo  H 

tea 

L*    Q    oj    H 

»)    "     >  C 

•2  6c  ran 

§  ?„-■! 
..too-- 

2.2 

f  hrg 

^        ra  — 
52i2 


t^i  cu  d  c  •-  cu  m  rt  ~  03 
gS  too—  g   - 
S  «  i:  to—  c 


b"*  e 


4fcraJ|^c^ 


s- 


«e"C  gp 

la*" 


2  j=>n  a  cb 


2j 


Lh  to  a  ™  e  js  2  «  5  ._  ffl  .2 

«  ^.2^  -  «^  |j£  §«s  e'^-S. 


eo^5  C3  g  8  B* 
B  ^«-,  I  6*  B   *  9 


u  sago 


#w  re 

la 


a  <u 


-  = :  ■=  sf «  £  - 


K 


K»  on  o 


p«a 


■s  ja  2  -a  -  Si 
J»  -  *  S  a  •"  3 
it,  a  -a  D  j3  a> 
—  a  u^i  .jd 
e  _  cc.B  ca  a  " 

iS2  b  „ 

Raw 

sa««  b'Si"' 

s  5-°  2$  a&» 
•S|gi|> 


•2- 


i*1^  S  „•= 


-•-  -j    .  —  a      Jz 

m  "3T3   O    O 

•b  S  £  _  -d  £  re 


U-;al  O  t)"S  — 
^DP  tM  e"3 


•gSfa-as-a-gES 

•-IBIS'S  SlS" 
a  2  .--5  g  g  B  a-ra 
«  a  >-  *-S-b  tog  — 

§22  co  B  "^  55 

FH,Ofu«a=lB_-B 

«'Se«'a.2Naa 

«.2e»  »*  a  o°2-C 
2-2S^2/-|| 

5 -3  a  3 _r gB S  o 

3fi— Buja      a*^ 
S«2i:--:-22 

tl0DeO5<"''3'B2 

Sit3  2"-  0  a  _•£-• 


5  c« 


o  ^ 


a  to 


Bfl2FJ^ai^    132.-     "'•3  =  g 


■1JI 


■si 


TSsefils.a^&Sg'Siji^ 

9f,£5|HW| 

a 
So 


B  a  3  5  «  ™ t3  Bjww-S^^SaiC 

^SgSlB-gpllciSagi* 


115 


■a  p  «  ►= 


X—  oo       be  co  co 

J;"-:  a  e  »  *  8    - 

2  T3    „   o    co  J3      ."g   £ 


■rt< 


CO   £  ,2  "  ,o  T3      .  .2    O 

—     C    ra  n;     D    ^ 


■-    CO    g 

S3  £  •§  -fl  6?    S 


2  2  S 

»B   3   CO 

s^s*  a 


S'C1     6 


fe°  c  °£ 

£>*^ 
^Sl-^pfl'- 

'U'O-'-S    0    41  =  -3 

« a*55  »«:£  £**•«* 

i.  a  ,-;  41    _.ce±:St/1 
B  tn  "°  ^  -  ,4)  fe  _,  ca  4i 

o§s£.~se|i,£«2 

2, «  £  2  s  8  *>*>  a  «  «J 


t>  5  o 

?  0,0 


—  a 

j«0  o  a 


•a  £ 


8*8 


*-  sj  -j  cd  ^ 

he*     *  S 


o  t*-c)  w 


gW   N    „ 
P    ID    41  J3"0 

«  CO  <n  -^ 

K*£.2g 

hO?  ;"- 

a    „,   fc 


hn^ 

a  * 


oi    QJ    *-" 


.a  5  _ 

t.  >  o 

sguo 

>.aafli 

0  A   i-         O 
4>    _    4)   «  J 

iS  '£  ?      o 
~  -^  33  -r         k     .o  v. 

4,-S   .*£      *  £.2  a .2 

"O  n  .5  4i  .a     .«>„._,  fl  > 

s"^2~  g  4>-a^  a" 
a  2  2      b  ^-a  a  ^ 


"     'J     Ql     W  O 

._fl  2  4>  s 

-  41.2TE  9 

^ 2  ^  w  u. 


4»  be 
fl  _r.a  •-  « 


Q    C    OT    ^    *-"  -—    w 


»c?" 


41    0> 
ll 

S3 

B  B 

.S  o 

T3    C 

t-r 

CO     (A 

tj 

s     . 

wa 

«5PQ 
£§ 

•-   B 
?  | 

.S  6 


—  —  j-    3   CO 

.  S  „,-•-  -  Q  a)  53    .  J3  w  S  £  s 

•J1-   CC^  ?   S  a   2  <u  coJ=.g 

a.2  «  o^js-sS^sg'"!^1 


A  flja 


=     .o"  hoM  .¥  a  & 
«    =  heq 


6  o  "g  -a  p 

^^koOI-Mb  a    cd    Bg   5    H 


ri  *  £  ®  S  >  ea  s  si  s  -s.  Sis  « 


&<     -2  J3 

©  A.!2  "  io 

w  3    «   4i   xJd  —  41   3   £ 


.  _;  4i      "  "  co  ^; 

9S  fi 


■S  fl 

cU 

■aS 

E 

CO  <0 
60  0 
B  ** 

S  ho 

>».2 
-  o 
Cho 

'•Z  a, 
i->  ™ 

41  .C 

■«    * 

B   I* 

B  fl 


2.2 

S  ■** 

4)   !» 
^    41 


S  2  d-S  o*  8 
•5-5  5  ^j*  ? 

B""*  B   & 

«W  ci  co ^  a 
Si£«t»2 

m  M   w   «        •« 

l^-21^Se|iE£ 
o8S«2  b.§  «"S5  "5-2  i« 

_  -      "«  e  o  PJ  **  •-  .2 


co  ai 
cj 

Peg 

__,    41 


sr*         2  o  to 


•s^M-afl^'i2"in^ 

^   O   <n    .#.   »-  —J*  i» 


«"S   .SB  £e  ^ 


3B—    ©   OT    ■"  i  ~*   ^ 


"^Tj'S      .St    C  s^-—    yi    Jill    O 
/C        ,41  CO      „  »)    CO   B   =    t, 


B  g  e  .a  "  JS  a  i  =  hi  T  «  a 

^-'D»'B4ijaC,>-ri  >>0  o  a 


B         «         N 

£*;  rt  •  a 

v  co*0  C  — 

°  -S  »-■  -  » 

fe-S"^* 
"C  "  »  u  _- 

2  60-a    a 

*  *  S  hB§ 

--    '  CO    3 

aea 


»n 


•ft^ho-0 
O  a  ^  c  .^ 

v   >   3  "^  _!. 
2   rt  ^2   «y)   o 

_  d  r  m  „.  'JS  ?• 

g,gg°^hoce 

fl^siga^.s' 

CM   lO    H    "    1 


«  2' 


.    41  fcH    ^  -M 


w    —    w  ^ 

;  •-  .O   u.  "O 

:  g  -  co  c 
5  a  fB  - 
fc  M,5  a  4i 

Z  Ji  «  H  ■ 


2^ 


2  »  g 
-'.hpo  <Aa 

a  o  ►  * 


i— '41    u    2    c    3 
.  60  41  *  .=    O 

o  co  .a  u  „,  g 
^31^2-  c^co 

/->-  js  —  fl  « 

g   60 


>FBfc. 

5^£ 

«  ..« 


a 


HiMell 


116 


i  J,J<  i  i   e  » 

3|  §•»*•?£ 

*  1 1  -•*s-fiJ 

3  2       <u  >  S  "3 

5j  g  "3  a"2  ?1  =; 

^  ^  ->  ^  w  •  a  C  a 

<a    C  j-  J3.  '-'-'    »    83    S 

fa  o  33  3    .-  sjs  2 

o.J2  -  »  -    -  d 
STZJ  ,  ^  1  -  - 


sS  «<2  a    .a  o    e  a  Jh=:-2  g, 


73  60 

a  a 


a  i  3  2  «  a 


-  J3  —    0)   S 

v  2  c^-a*  oei 


3«* 


O.X1  «  -C  32  c  < 


5?'S=9'«!.'««iwS 


<g  3 


S.g.JjH.9  s  E*E  s  &£-s 


-a 


a? 


-5  2  t>B  s 

..-J5  °  C  3  -~ 


u 


-a£.a  l£.S 
&  60£  Z  "2  a  S  3 

<y   G   «   ^   ° 
M--.C 
w  O 


-   JJ   o 


0)    a    0>    O    O    Jf.-j  -  -  ._    j,  ^ 

>*  -=  .2  o >a ."»  E  — 

—  o  **  c  orvi 

-3  «  <uH  o 

1-       -T3     I 


uJJSOq 


.  £ £2  o  ft 

gXM    H„  -    J   5    -££,     .^-,     - 

a      2*-a  •«  ►?  >  c  ra  a  .,     73 
„  S^  £,C-2<-  «.£  £J=-jga 

Bf    (X2^    3>T3    S    « 

a;  -;  d  d  u  k  " 


a)  3      —  3 
a  o  x  3  w 

°  «  S  w  - 

.SP3  -H 

-0011 
3  =  2  s  « 

O    0)    ™    0) 

«U£  ££ 

O    Q>    1)    4| 


«3        S 


•z:  otj 

M  t)    4) 

Oj  — . 

3  a  a 


2      2(fi  o 


^  its  :  l, 
•3  a  »-  B-,o 
P(S  S  "  « 

SPs  3^  S 

a  *: 
a 


•S  e      S.  5  2 

•-3      K*." 


-.  a  s-2 
Si-Si  a-i-2-  K* 


a  2 


0-0 


o  ^ 


a  w 


"•SS'Si 


no  c  So  o  £  » -s  .2  3 


ff§i.g.soii: 

l|7||ff«8 

o  caJS-'O'W  o  »  no 
P^  h  .*"  ■«  t:  ra 


<u 


o 


a"2  o  o  g  <u  ra 

r^5^36^|' 

2  S?5-aS  »>j-  otj 

5£o-*Sf oa 

-j>o  _, -3 fc,o>  a  M  s 

Q.CB-"!M0£l,3>-' 

«  S  c  «  a  <u  cq  o-  a> 

S<  ™  0, «  „  3  rt  a)  — 

H  eta    -"•=■« 3 "« 
gi-'  i>  3  co  «-  -  a 

•m       ws  o  -a  «  «—  ^ 

2-3  °u  a-°      ^ 

--J    O    O    ?.c3    O    g     . 
«   0J        «    bo-    B    «    »l    U 

?5j«S-lgS^3|' 

s.?-s^l|Sg.a-g 

3  °  £j:i->  —  n  g  g 
Oj  g  a  a  I  m  r*a 

3S«     O.SH53 


*»^« 


.-  «<2>J 

P    n     *    — 

«j  3-a  60 

■Sg,-S? 

"-■  "  2  «  n  a  rn 
■  Bn  -      a  J  5  «  S  § 


2       00 
.    eo-r;  .•  -9  <3 


-    a  T-  JT  - 

C  —    00~    3 

C  is  q  b  m  ■ 

B,b   3   0)^^- 


P  ■=  q  _-•« 

K-3ToS  m.«  k  s  i»  u. 
£§60^6.52.^1? 

«  a  gjgj  •--■?„& 

^  ™  g.a  ^  ■§ « s  2  "^ 

—  .2  ««  !;  S  «-  o  3  9 

^   to "         v.   n   b    s^r,   ^   P 
«   t^B.^.   "'   g   *    f«<   a    ^ 

■*  3  *'->'9  ? "5  "s  q  ~ 


5-2  r^ 

TSu  i)  91*  to  «  §  a  «» 

.- S  a  ja . 


nisi* 


-?■  &^S-S3^6£-2  fl 


*S,»ai(i    i 


•^jaafjab     3<1(n^co  a  a 


■  aft  -  £.2=  »  a  S<; 


117 


if  Hi* 

ii  .       ■a'S  m 


II  lie 


«  -B    5    «l   3     ..    »>  ♦■•         SO 

i  ►  §p=t.s,o5    -JjJ 


p  ^  -9  fee's  J?  S 


J* 


in  43 
V 


■s  **  *«  s 

co    B   a  43 


WM  ■«   3  a    C*  ft-3  -    =    ri         to 


•9      2 


B   »   to  a 

,     II     91     2     S 

1--M:|J 


-«  fir  v 

„s*h  2-2-9 


s  ~  «.c?s  rt  ~  « 


_  g  8 
<g  ?  —  -a 


ft 

v 

o      •  > 

8|ga 

3  B 

Poo 

S«g  u 

i  v  £ 

i  s2  § sip S^I 

M.fl  9  *%  Si 

■5  c>  2    -  --  *>  -  °  V 

O  fl   'ji   tf   «   «>  J   o   5 


3^J 

ill  61^ 

s-3b°?^I! 

a  •*  ^3  at'f 


O 


a  a 
SiJ 
£3 

<s 

o     - 

sg 

S.a 

V.    u 

°  a 

t>  •-" 

P 

a.  v> 
□  u 

°  2 

"S  ft 

c  s 

lb 


a  b-9 


1)  — 

u  s. 

C4 

o 


il!i« 

J    3    ft    §    B 

J-i  a>  o  o  - 


"  *»     w    B 

c-i  ©  o  o  a  b  <*-« 


B  ft" 

a>   a>  o   o 


-B  O    cu  .2    cd  rt 

"  %    co    a  <Z2  >* 

^J  B."B  ^2  ^  ~ 

3  fl>    OJ    B 


2  w  S        5 

«.  ft  ^  ^ 


ft2  2^  co 

1 1  s-s 

®  2  E 

3     4)    *i     0>     O 


rt   3   bc,B  .2  3  5- 
ft  § -g^ -3  •«  2    - 

C-S-B    B    2 


-  S.2 


a 

CO     M  .2 


■t    be 


■  3  a    £  -" 

*j     4>  "r"  **h  T! 


-„     C°     ft*     9>    »     •-  J?  'S    fcli 


N   —    S.    0J  ni  ■ «   « 


£  CD   S>  B  .3, 


*^  4)     O 

co  ®  .a 

o  »"" 

2  •  ° 


a 
f  o 


3  a  .S  **  ^ 


♦*  \3  «  f«  a  v3  4> 
g  .2  2  co  „-  §  --SS 
9  ^^^^.2^-3 


o  +^' 

«  p 


P-B 


bo  o 


B 

N^-g:.3~:t3  25o-zi      -s 
3  Q  .2VS  S  ^  fi  g  a  o      3 

°M 


'  45  J3    <tl     _ 
S?J=    CO  -5 -5 


,J-  «J     I*     4)  t«     r- 

t.  i-  „s  _^  a  •** , 


O  ' 
B    ^ 
<U    fl 

44 


OlSi5    co*;    4>IV©+3 

^BOBa':,j4)ac< 


SsIS 


■s^l-^S  I- 0-1^-5  ft5  «g 


P  2^  S-S"i  B^3 

co  -5  -  -°  ■ 


•'-     -j     '■■  5jD*^     4) 

flHrBo®a)rt(3 

--P,  ♦*  St)  S  g-S 


ft. 


£  » 


2^ 


o 

<D         -B 


<»    «  -2  -a 


2  "K   c 

-   ft§ 


i^o^ 


.a          *-»  o  ** 

T1  "H  '"O    *^     c^  'B  ct) 
--c  •-«    45    n)  >B    . 

w  b  ^      *b  ja  a 

_.  3^-a  P"«  5 

•  r8  - a 

_  £  'S  ^T  rt  ** 

a    c«  ,2    »  ■—  rP  CO 


a  2       S 

P-a  «  a       cj1-"    -43 

-  a  «P    S         43  t_    nl  _, 

•  «       ^^^43  a  " 
2  3  s-° 


45 

CO  £ 

45  aj 

s  ft 


45     45 
"43 


°0«    OW    O 
"    9    «    « 

"  s  -s  e  4^ 


®  ts  "i3  2  v>  o 


09     «J<P 


S  40  3  *4j  fc  « 

et!  «    a    n)  **    B  *3 


o  g:a 


':c 


B   - 


B  "2  -3  •"»   «  -5   w 

©  -  si 


BJ 


O    B 


ri 


;.9  §« 


,'S  .2"  s  •* 


9 


K 


a        aj 


.s;  &7S>  a  1 « 


a 
a  co   £ 

¥  T3 

_;  3 


05 


8>  43 


W>  03  "g   «< 


45    45  •  ~j  4h 
„     BflO    C  J5       -45>nJi.O 

o03  R        !r!43  2  «   *F°  S  543 

-SSSo^'Bd.bs        Pea 


c-c 


45 


S.p 


2.0 


D 


5-3£o'="s;flBCB'S 
9  3.oS£o||^2 


45'  45 

be- ' 


ft 

43     3 
25  CQ 


44 

"B   ^ 

S    co 
._,  m    ca 

•Baft 

„    co  "B 
**    ^    /« 


■S-S, 

4>  "B" 

a  a) 
a  » 

§43 


42  >»'«.  • 
'B  cfl  ft  o 
«*  "B    4)    -J 

a  co  .3  "o 

45 


45    r^ 

43    45 


-2  2»  60  4)'i3  a^ 
•-ftg«||-fO|ajS|j 

-  s-s  2  s-i  ►«  .  "I-S*  ^  g5 


ft 


•B    N 


H3  "TS    rt 


«S43-i3    co£    g    oH<   U   S   ft  •£! 


^"g    cp 
►2  43 


45  *i      ^-2    45    a 

u  a  cp  -2  ft 

RS  d    CO     U  43 


■M    45»4)^3C    45    i>   tn 
P  S         43  ^  — I  O 

?H  43  <P    ct  -O  ^ 


4) 

b-cj 


O"    B    P  «J    S* 
q  —  Pi  *- 

5     45  W     i«  _ 


3043 


118 


o 


* 

5.  a" 

a.  l. 

cu 

Ed 

-a 

o 

3 
1> 

CD 

>ti 

£ 

(/. 

— 

s 

O) 

5 

o 
'2   o 

v     - 

3-a 

'(U 

u 

B 

-3 

•— 

CD 

a* 

cd 

X) 

s 

(/) 

<d 
o 

U 

CD 

— 

a 
■p. 
a 

re 
0 

S 

o 

a 

o 

-c 

re 

— 

h 

>- 

B 
0 

35 

£ 

•Ji 

c  tu 


<H  2 


o  s 


a  P  "  !?  ?  " 

•a   «  2   «     -v. 

cd  ~   o  '~   >v  — 

t;  c  u  -  ™  - 

■a  o  3  ra  jz 
M  a  "  -  »   . 

°    «    O    0  -    £ 

0  c   !*  -*<      -re 

P  5  c  gS  a.- 
cd  —  ■=  —  «  -P 

1  !--S  g.  2  2 


13 

g.2  . 

b<j£    C    O    CD 

3£.i  S'S  2 

<d<2  SS^-a  = 
£  „  cd -a      JJ 

cc  J      „  C   c   r    6D 
<D    «    £    2    O    g.'5 

•5  o  <d  2  •«  cd  j,. 

P     W    .,    CO    CD    C  _ 

o  cb  u  n  j!  qj  3 


8>  "-a-a 

s 


G  —    cd  — <    •->    0    Z    *■'    <*  jz 


C  -3    I1  —    D 

-Et  Ocouiic-    • 
•-  n  cd 


■  —    r3    *u 
P  c—    ■-    u 


E  s2.s 

5  2  =  V 


I 


'■=  -Jf-  2;  teu  -p.£ 

•  c  <-'  ^  fr  T  '^*  ^  *-  cd  , 
o  c  c  -5  o 


Q 

w 
w 

C 


■_«86 

-    -^  rJ   cd  *-^  — 

VC    NC)     »    S'Ol'll 


«^_    ~    3 


25  ss_ 

C   cj~cj   _M         30n 

ra  r  cd  —  E 

dk,^  „  n  -c  -a  c 


c  3 

Jj5 


•2  cd<  «5  5- 


St3-S  ~  2  to 

■-    c  CD  —    X" 


°  ■-    c  CD  —    q- 

C3  "=  d    JB.L0  :»,     -  CO         —  ^ 

«T    -  V —  -B  2   (*-3   u  S1  * 

Pat  8|*  2  >, 


&2tc 


a6*  t»    S  CD    "    u« 

^         <—    t,   -J  CDU         -"O 

8X  <1    t»    CD   O    »lj  <J   C  *2 

jo  2  -  v  «■-  O.5.-  .    8 


.    f0    CD    CD 

.CU  g  g 

0    =    c5 


i   CD  .i   (9  B   w)  -J  ■ 


2  u"8  a 


:z< 


>  t^1 


.» 


CD  CD    »j  J3    Jj    ^-  Cj 


c-cf-^H 


a 

V.    « 


(».S  > 


2    rt    c/T  C3 


3  »N^  O 

P3    CD    CD    c/i 

-=  7  g  c  £  *-. 


J3  o 

r  ^  n  j*  t  ao 
£  c  n  g  a  £ 

^*        fc-   *r   i^  b 
^c  rt  ^  m  ^  u 
J2 


1^2X2 


v  2--Z 


•_-3 


^  ^  4*  a  £  : 

n    CD    _    CD^    •• 

o 
2-a 


2  ^j:  4).S  fc.S-o  £ 


O    v  w 


cu.;; 


3  P 


-  ^         e  S  -   t   S 


5-i'cx^'=L.S-f^™ou^~oS-anBv-^"2 


J .2  cH-^2  p  £  a, -2-       ?  V 

p  5  *•        re  *-j 


.0  ~  . 


^•S  2  C  n-a 
~  o  £  g,—  o 
o        3  ra  j-  a 

0)  j3    bf)t> 


o  d  >  ^  S.-3  u  2  -5  j=  ^  (,,,  o  g  o 

u^e^.3,S(s«|5guJc 

2  s . .  s  _  -  s» «  j; 


^ 


S"JS  °  & ™s 

,    53^  ra^  ri^  _ 
ra        „,  o  br  *•/?•-  JS  — 


cd  hn 

a 


2  o 


CD    O  —    p"  O 
<~    v-    ft)  j5   — 


0.5 


-E-p 
?s=  a. 2 


2  B  I  I  ' 
SPT!  o      S  p 


bo-S  «    - 


re  -c 


•5-6 

C3   H 

■SS.2 


CD 
•P    3 


cu  jj      •:= 


j       ° 

l»   re  -5   cd 
•*   u   ■"  JZ 

o3«  ° 
"^^^ 
•°  £  2  5 

OT3--P 

y  ra  — 
O  P  v--P 


:-d<a 


"  *■?■ 


S  e  ■"•— 
►  ■S'_ 

-■2.8  J 

o 


III. Illll ly If 31 S g II S I :Jaj  I ri| 


*^    F>    cd    u  JZ 


¥    W    2„-CD-P-=«ilT)    CD-g",       " 


p  B 

.—  "*  o 

Pi  qj  cq  rt 

X55 


_  ^  n  —  a 

re  °  ?  <d  "« 

J3  rj  c/>  "^ 

0n_3  3 


_  re  ~  1-  > 
»-*        —  *»^   u  ^ 

cd  -a  B  c  *c  -p 
-  2  re  5  "<  3 
-c.>n^_f-(tu«j 

gs-eS«g*g.Sj-s- 

p'p^rat-tDaoizPxy 
33  "■  W.S  a  cd 


0  •  °^ 


-Q    cd 


CD    t<   t>   2 


H  2  J!  ■-  '" 

-^  S-S  f 

4;  ■ 


o  i 

n 


e  cd  -  (a  r>"P  w  kr,T 
=  5-5  o.Sra-fj  c"'5 
a^"3  FH>S  "'cd  & 

qj-PcdcD^  CDXrtj 

2  c   S  3 


fc^  °    D 
cCV-P 


■w  "  ,/-  j=  2 


■D    O    CD  ' 


.i:  -p  t-  jc 


~  re  cd  a) 

CD  J£    c, 

P  J2  • 


Mtb.Sal*      =^^o°o 

—    3    CD    CD  •  -  "—    „  -       CD<_>« 

r  «  UJ»  c  >•  i>  «  d 
-.  j:  2  «  J3 

60!»c-2OC,22'^3-- 

5rtT3--2«oj3j;t« 
2 -a 


o  o  re  n 


-D.a§ 


I 


CD     •    cu 

S  «  a 


O    CD  ' 


P    CD  .i 

*  £«£ 

jd  ~  <  .s  -2  «  ^ 
r^r  w       c>       g  — 

•P  "Z   3   o   re   CD   CD 

B,^  «  §  s  »<■■  jj 
°  —  ?•  p     -  - 

*—  ZZ   y   n,  jz  r  \  - 
o  u,  2  §  'Z  re'  2 

£.  2  2  ^  •£  S  to 

£■•■3  uJfc      = 

cd    P   7    rt    ^    —    O 


|-C    B    "» 


C    cj3 

ts.2. 

CD    O    CD  J3     P    CD     - 

^   re  -  _   .     .    T3 


J=  p  **  -p 


t/*  T3 
re  c 
&  2 


eo_  <„  ~ 

3  _.  c- 

"~S    c/>  5  rt 

cu  re  >-  - 


1-         CD    A      • 

y  "    3    C1^ 

•*  re  bo  „  2 

P    CDQ  CD 

o  — -  cd  re 


D  re   cd   cd   a   c 


-s    a 


«».'~   cd  S   o  J;."-3 

E- <  ^a  c-  -c  ^  ^, 

tH  °  ^  2  o  p  a 

~  v  «  g  c  <d  g 


119 


uAvU  Iras  J  8  "Irf  1 1  fr 

s  S  55  *     fc     S  vW  <u  " 
2-fi8£8sJs.fc-?    .§« 


g  fljfl.8  55-  £§• 
C  -  ._.o  a  9  ■  w  a 

•3  •£  «;  jj  0-2 
<«—  5  —  o  2  »j 


N 

BCD  v 


S--5 


Hl&lsVi 


2  <= 


.  sr.  °|  °i  u  •  < 


if  C  "*  *<«  bif?  !£  5  C       'C 


fc-sajssJSo.sg>os 

—  °SSa'3«-3.S  t^-2^, 

§  »  §  s  g  ZZ£  |>  s  *  °l     -5  •  8-  s-3  2 

■  fc,    iv  -*    Oj    Wjg    N^    P  yj-B    e    ^  jtj  J,    «    a  -« 


ill  II 

2  s  X  -  - 


'.2  *      <g  so  k  is  — •  'S  a 
UJefJ.g  £  g 
rt  S.2,5 


§  00 


*■ 


s"  fl        a  .a  «) 
>»  v  a  a>  2  <o  o 


o 
2  £ 

O  ^3 


L 


oB^s 


►»§0\3 


oS 


6ou 


O  n  OU  ra 


.-•3  «  ©   -^  ="° 


9fi"-rlSilff4sl 


sll  all 


p   ■  o  ijW'c  E  2      «      " 

2;    **\  »3 


1*9  si 


'$ 


»  *       S  .5  - 

bOC  T3-*    ""   O 


v  «J  2  •=  -  u  ^-5  -2  S 
S2-£^-S§ 


^    a    7?       n   l- 


n»  9  'o 

s .? 

C    O    a) 


IMS 


^;   rt  •"    rt    p 

R°Sf^'oS'S 

a3 


«?  c  v  a      —  w»^ 


II 


fiJS^-a§ 


60CQ 


f»o.J 


T3  i«  2  «?S  t» 

a  vs'-fl'S) 

g|*Btf.gJB 

i-z_  a  s  « 

S'g'g.'a  fig 

JScPO-2 


13 


*«y  **  ST;  r^    oj 

a 

S  - 

°  s 


^  d 

5    0-3    « 


-  «»  S  „  S 


m*Z?4*  J^li-3   Isllll8  1-s  s  8-8 1  ?-  «2  III  §  o^  i-a  B  S|  a*3     § 


3 

2     &, 


a 

ft 

o 
0 


h  n>Q 


03 

5  £  «    .  * 

rt    q    © 


Ig  .s  if  1 

a  §•  - 1  •«  J  y&£  i  a 


S^S  2  I 


Ot3  _ 

o^  9  c  s  s 
6|e8.S,B| 
a  o  oj  o-  u  M  3 
■"  *  a  ®  .9  "S  .2 

B ■  i-^  1  *  5 " 

is"* 

°  <—  -2  P «« 

^33  >  ° 

.  »  s  ° 
.•3  u  y 

u  S  3  - 


•8     si 

is  • 


pa 


S  S  8  S  SP  S  «*  •    •■ 

di  3  5 .«  a  >.  C  m    n 


3  w  « 


53 


<  <  z,-°  -°  t  .a  « 

-«     rt  --<    H     en  '<D  »fl 
45     A     a  ~ 
-fl    rt    !s 


rt  _<  *»    « 


1  ri  ^2  fl 

r  2 


Frt       00^      S 

^,2—  ^  3 


Ml 

a 


a>  <i!  -^  iQ 


bo 
&g 

fl  -c 

<U  IB 


CO    —  CO 

4>    fl  oj 

00  §  O 

rt    S  O 

3    O  4> 


2d^  g*f  y-° 


J   o'   ri.9: 

^  *  .a 's  a>  f 

.fimwJ«qfl'<:» 

*»  5  fi    -*E<  ■  °  a 

et)  J9    O    43  _  S 

J2  ^  o5*S^  Jo5 


m 

05  '■S  o  S.  S  *• 

>  ?  °  a-  g  a 

c  t  „  ?  J5 

"  |  ft.  §  P  .» 


3 
45    O 


cu 


05  ~ 

6.5  £s2  2^ 

s-al^flQ^^ 
€  -fl3«  .  -I 

m    05  t— i  «    Q    a! 

5-°  s  a  StB 

^<  fl  cr  a«E 


&! 


Ph  3 


T3 


^3  «    C    2    «    fl    '*  k 

Jt4ks  "fi.>-s  « 


1  o  2 


rt     53     43 


b_s-fl  »2 
2P  8  «  a  m*? 

™  O    •    o    05    J; 

o~  8    . .  °  'g  <b  •S  *2 


i<8 


:  s"s  i  1  sa 

a 


~  3  J  «  gs  g  ■«    gz  g 

2isl§s6-I  |3- 


SI'S 


■o  ~  U 

^3     P  S 

3    S€ 

-  »  S 
E    »a 

til 

=  23 
B  I  S 

S  5^a 

a)    >  C 

■5  "  3 


c  c  o  =  -S  »  o 

2«ca«e  Kg 

l5£-S-£-2 
»»i  a.io  „  g 

■  3  -2  ■  "S  3  "9 

MiS  ja  £  ^  w  a 

-S-o  --2&  ■•= 

til  li=^ss5 
■  =1    &a-sfife 

O  So      a  >-tS  =  o  «  " 

? 1»1 I«?sl*l 


iilii'Sts-s&i* 


1-2  Its 


■  ■  g° 

iEZS^ss-gSlgls 

•-  ctji-«  i»,±:  ti  :   =  =  >  a 


es-h2.2.«s?hoe3 
Ssl5|.ssi|5Ss- 

5  =  a;4c|g.§ocr« 


!i  eS«' 


A   3 


01   g  i.   #  —  —    z 

*■**<  §  !«°«tS«  So  1 

Sfsf5,-iElSS|s! 

*  «.S  «  s'^^jSsj  o  £ ? 

•  b,     XS      «ob"oc3- 


gs*S-Saa_g.  ef g 
i*wSl6a'8liVl3l 

J5  V   -—   - 


•  "K-inul 


_«>».ig.BSB37j5togI 

■  ■S?  5  C5  §  e  » '"-  „^  >. 


120 


X  a 
a  o 
5  »  V 


>****"  WlffefiSililf 

t  ™  o  tf  .  »;jo«oS- 

j.Sq  *J>  o  qjS  8  _, 

J  -a  — .  -S  M  S  t.  S"^  2  IE  H  3  ■=  •»  = 

•~*oi  ""■Ss'-S 


o  j>  «  a  «  if  a-j.  *-.io<».«'» 
•55  J  **  "S  -  S  y  u  fi  *s : 


limit 

tijlfli 

i|iK*f« 

T e»S—  o  ™  •* 


£.5-3 


~  -n  a  o  —  e-  3 


?a  <l> 


Bi: 


S 


■ft*!  si 

eg.»  >■«■§« 

i tail. 2 

Mf-ahl 


ss:e 


S  -3    0)    ©    rt 

**  "3  *S*3  3 

"  o 


»  i  2-i"S  P.  «"3 


bo.8  ±  -B  .2  -C  £  S   «  E 

SS.5  race's  © 


8, 


§«>    m^2t3    o 
«    0    «    §    M 

"     4) 


>-»  4> 


S*  bV3  M  v-  b 
2  d  3  -S  «  °  -2 


rd 
B 

to   «* 


.  -5  «  *«  *s  *d  ->  «  g.i=i^  K*M 

IS  a  i  o 


•Sa 


RUE 

•3  "  1  -  * 

»)     fc     U 

313  3  i  5 

4>  — 

las 


fc-2  ° 


P. -S  °  »  »  .2  "l  g  "S 


5^  S  1* 

n  3 


js  a  • -) 

60  4)    J    fl 
-M  43    S  -4 

,£J     >      U     ° 

•*  g  (3  ** 

-dog 

8  3-2 

^  as  - 

bo-3  s-2 

I. H| 

3  a  5  is 
S-"  §  § 

s.  LI'S 

O   ffil  s 

S  § 


■s?     'u. 


1  4) 
I  T3 


3-s 


Mil 

b"  m  ^  * 

0) 

e 


tc~  »d  a  w  9 

rt    m  —    4>  -3    « 


-3   K- 


4)     4)     4) 


s  3  -  §  a  _ 


3  «  d  5 
1  <o     «  as  S  .2 

H°  o  •  § 

p  2  te-8  § 


^2  S 


o 


■"  "3   d 


£'C5 

4)    .  e»  **  o"  2 


bog 


d   ^  ^3   ti  ,0  "ij 

Ww  ^    rt    >    «>  <— . 


_»1    4) 
3    4) 

^  a 

•O    a) 

-3 

4) 

-a 


<U     4> 


2    K 


«_2 

»-  - 

O  4) 
0)  „ 
bC  4> 

n    «  J    <?    a   5    V 


.-a  8 

*9 


4) 


4> 
<o    O 

ti  'd 

4) 


Mo 

rt    u  ^3  -d    4) 

s.a^  33 

«  "■  m  o  ra 

S  •  § 

O  J    M 

»  2   d 
d  -S  o 

-M>    T3 


d  3 


C    4> 

d  js 


°    O    •H 


01    S 


S 1  «f  4  i 


2-a^  e 
fl-tf  K 1 1  S*a  1 1 1 2*8  «  J 


|s8&s8.SSmB° 

2     hn  a\  —j   "^ 


*drf3 


.  M  _  «?  d>  13  *9  *S  ^ 


a, 


•s  2  *5  9  -£,*2  «  3 

~2  d 


a  ■  o.h 


_   n   p*t 


j3    bOt— 
.  4)    O 

jo  d   ™  2 

<9    O     4>    M 

cw*s  - 


bs  45 

4>  Xi 


•5  2  -°  js  t;  >>2 

13  id  3   Or*   *-l< 

-  _3  -"  S  2  a  .2 


•SI  e  «^  rj 


S  o  o  E  £  c 

**  tr    ^    O   <S   rs 


g- <2|S^  a 

r"  •n        S  *-■  "^  »» 

d    »n    4>   *J    4) 

S a  s^^    w 
S"s|.|| 


to  2  t> 

■  1 


<u  ^  rf    71    t.    t> 


3 
V) 

•*  43 
O  - 

a 


6°w 

o  *d  "2 
fc  rt  a 


5  »  f  *  d  do 

4) 


•^    «    e T  d 


EC    i 


60.2  S^^  «•=  J?  w  «  °5  ~  c  ,; 

26oS    -dw    «<-.S  «  «,  °  v 

"5  e  H  Z  §*a    ••o-J.i!  =  S  f*d 


•  1 
8  I 


••  «j  *d 


•^  e  h  V  ^  §  « 
^■2?  3w  I  §  § 


j*  -a  *  ^  b   >  J£   ^^^3   3  t- 

-£•2^0^  •-  -a  c«  o  o  d  «>  c  v 


^Sai35i3HS.5  Head's 


121 


EMERSON  AND  TRANSCENDENTALISM. 


By  C.  F.  McClumpha. 


"What  is  popularly  called  transcendentalism 
among  us,  is  idealism;  idealism  as  it  appears 
in  1842,"  said  Emerson  in  a  lecture  before  a 
Boston  audience  in  the  same  year.  This  ideal- 
ism came  to  be  an  important  part  of  Emerson's 
philosophy.  It  became  a  mode  of  thought  as 
well  as  a  precept.  It  was  the  soul  to  the  body 
of  his  literary  expression,  for  literature  may  be 
said  to  have  a  soul  as  well  as  a  body.  Literary 
history  records  many  a  period  when  the  ques- 
tion of  keeping  body  and  soul  together  was  an 
important  one,  periods  when  materialism,  such 
as  that  of  the  eighteenth  century,  threatened 
the  life  of  idealism ;  periods  when  transcendental- 
ism has  waxed  militant  and  distrustful  of  the 
material,  scientific  progress  of  mankind. 

It  was  the  voice  of  Immanuel  Kant  that 
heralded  a  philosophy  of  idealism,  declaring 
that  the  external  world,  its  phenomena,  its 
history,  do  not  depend  upon  experience;  that 
mind,  its  speculations,  aspirations,  and  dreams, 
are  not  to  be  rent  as  fine-spun  myths.  It  was 
reserved  for  Emerson  to  translate  the  idealism 
of  Kant  into  the  practical,  every-day  life  and 
culture  of  the  American  in  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury. Emerson  poured  his  idealism  into  a 
mould  which  shaped  a  world  of  real  profit  and 
ideal  delight  for  the  masses  that  were  to  become 
his  readers  and  admirers. 

Wordsworth,  the  transcendental  naturalist, 
had  already  celebrated  the  sympathy  of  man 
with  external  nature;  Carlyle,  the  transcen- 
dental moralist,  had  thundered  forth  his  anath- 
emas against  the  pettiness  of  human  thought 
and  the  falseness  of  human  institutions;  but 
it  was  for  Emerson  to  exult  in  the  divine 
nature  of  things,  to  glorify  the  Spiritual  force 
in  man  and  his  humanity.  It  was  a  grand 
thing  for  the  idealist  of  nature  to  dream  of  the 
material  particles  that  are  wrought  into  inti- 
mate relationship  with  the  soul,  to  let  the  imag- 
ination bridge  the  gulf  between  inner  self  and 
outer  world,  between  the  subtlest  thought  and 
the  dancing  atom  of  the  sunbeam.  It  was  a 
noble  thought  to  imagine  moral  energy  in  star- 
dust,  to  connect  the  heroes  and  sages  of  human 
history  with  the  barren  rocks  of  Scandia  or  the 
pleached  gardens  of  Arabia.  But  how  much 
more  sublime  the  idealism  that  could  link  the 
commonplace  lives  and  humdrum  existence  of 
unherbic  and  uninteresting  neighbors  and  fellow 
citizens  with  the  whole  power  of  world-creation 
or  the  highest  conception  of  spiritualism. 

Emerson's  transcendentalism  was  eminently 


suited  to  the  American  public.  It  was  demo- 
cratic. It  placed  him  in  harmony  with  the  current 
and  movement  of  the  time ;  it  enabled  him  to 
bear  his  part  in  the  public  and  private  doings 
of  his  country ;  it  made  him  a  noble  and  inspir- 
ing leader  among  men.  The  human  side  oil 
democracy,  its  ideal,  it  may  be  said,  is  humani- 
tarianism,  and  this  was  the  burden  of  all  Emer- 
son's political,  or  theoretically  political,  utter- 
ances. To  him  the  greatest  examples  of  hu- 
manity, those  who  became  the  heroes  of  his- 
tory, were  not  resultants  of  blind  force,  but 
"representative  men"  endowed  with  divine 
qualities.  Such  heroes  do  not  exact  hero-wor- 
ship; they  rather  attract  men  by  their  tran- 
scendent qualities  and  then  yield  their  places 
to  other  geniuses.  "  But  at  last  we  shall  cease 
to  look  in  men  for  completeness,  and  shall  con- 
tent ourselves  with  their  social  and  delegated 
quality."  "We  never  come  at  the  best  and 
true  benefit  of  any  genius  so  long  as  we  believe 
him  an  original  force."  Such  heroes  are  result- 
ants of  qualities  common  to  all  men,  they  are 
democratic  as  we  are  democratic,  and  they 
leave  us  independent. 

Again,  Emerson's  transcendentalism  was  op- 
timistic. It  was  self-sufficient  in  the  highest 
sense  of  the  word.  It  could  afford  to  dispense 
with  the  harsh  theories  that  science  has  often 
sought  to  impose  upon  material  things.  Cellu- 
lar explanations  of  matter,  prosy  crystalliza- 
tions of  sociology,  philosophy  may  be  ignored. 
Optimistic  transcendentalism  rises  above  such 
explanations.  The  thoughts  of  moral  beings 
are  reflections  of  that  divine  harmony  present 
in  all  natural  phenomena.  The  richly  colored 
clouds  of  heaven,  the  laughing  mountain  brook, 
the  murmuring  forest  pines,  the  most  delicately 
tinted  flower,  are  in  accord  with  human  joys 
and  sorrows.  Human  efforts  and  ambitions  are 
swayed  by  the  same  forces  that  pass  into  elec- 
trons of  the  minutest  atom.  Emerson  exult- 
ingly  exclaims,  "  Give  me  health  and  a  day,  and 
I  will  make  the  pomp  of  emperors  ridiculous. 
The  dawn  is  my  Assyria ;  the  sunset  and  moon- 
rise  my  Paphos ;  broad  noon  shall  be  my  Eng- 
land of  the  senses  and  understanding;  the, 
night  shall  be  my  Germany  of  mystic  philosophy' 
and  dreams."  Against  such  optimism  the  bil- 
lows of  materialism  and  pessimism  may  dash 
with  the  greatest  possible  violence,  but  tran- 
scendental faith  will  remain  serene,  undis- 
turbed. 

The  transcendentalism  of  Emerson  became 


122 


and  Cambridge  electric.  (They  call  them 
"electrics"  in  Boston.  They  have  to  be 
different.)  I  was  curious  to  know  something 
of  the  history  of  this  typical  Bostonian,  and  so 
under  pretext  of  asking  him  whether  the  car 
went  through  to  Arlington  I  entered  into  con- 
versation with  him  when  he  had  finished  the 
essay  on  "  Self  -Reliance  "  and  was  presumably 
in  a  position  to  look  out  for  himself. 

"Pardon  my  inquisitiveness,"  said  I,  "but 
I  could  not  help  seeing  the  title  of  your  book, 
and  as  I  am  a  stranger  in  Boston  it  pleased  me 
not  a  little  to  learn  that  Bostonians  are  really 
as  cultivated  as  the  joke  writers  would  have 
us  believe." 

"Oh,  yes,"  said  he;  "there  are  cultivated 
men  in  all  cities." 

"Well,  can  you  tell  me  if  it  is  a  general 
custom  for  business  men  to  read  Emerson  on 
the  street  cars?" 

With  great  courtesy  but  with  a  half-con- 
cealed smile  he  said: 

"  I  am  not  in  a  position  to  answer  your  ques- 
tion as  I  was  never  in  Boston  before.  I  am  a 
professor  in  Columbia  University  and  I  am 
on  my  way  to  visit  my  brother,  who  is  a  pro- 
fessor in  Harvard.  I  was  born  and  brought 
up  in  Jersey  City  and  I  never  happened  to 
read  Emerson  until  to-day,  when  I  picked  up 
this  copy  in  the  Corner  Book  Store.  I  see 
that  I  have  missed  an  intellectual  treat." 

I  retired,  apologizing,  and  fell  to  reflecting 
on  the  danger  of  generalizing. — Chas.  Battell 
Loomis  in  Saturday  Evening  Post. 


distilled  wisdom  of  the  ages,  he  was  virile  and 
benign;  in  short,  he  could  make  a  brave 
showing  of  the  gifts  characterizing  the  great 
poets  of  old. — John  Vance  Cheney,  from  his 
volume  of  essays  entitled  "  That  Dome  in  Air." 


A  Tribute  to  Emerson. 

The  poet  Gray  complained  that  he  was 
neither  a  cat  to  see  in  the  dark,  nor  an  eagle 
to  face  the  sun;  not  a  whisper  of  this  do  we 
get  from  Emerson.  Cat  and  eagle  are  mere 
moles  to  him  who  says,  "  I  am  a  transparent 
eyeball."  Emerson,  of  all  our  poets,  sees; 
be  it  noontide  or  twilight,  the  glance  is  straight 
and  piercing.  Not  only  does  he  see  through 
the  light,  but  he  absorbs  it,  "illuminating  the 
untried  and  the  unknown."  Emerson's  mas- 
tery over  light  distinguishes  him  from  his 
compeers,  and,  coupled  with  his  ability,  "to 
put  his  private  fact  into  literature,"  gives  him 
the  electric,  seminal  strength  Which  comes 
first  in  a  computation  of  his  power.  Sight, 
imagination,  and  inspiration,  standing  fore- 
most among  his  gifts,  Emerson  was.  a  seer,  a 
reporter,  a  mighty  applier  of  ideas  to  life.  His 
aim  was  truth,  his  mission  to  tell  us  "  how  to 
live  well";  he  was  to  the  last  the  lover  of 
youth  and  beauty,  he  was  a  receiver  of  the 


A  Gufe  Incident. 

Bv  Ch*.rtM  W.  Kent. 

In  a  Southern  city  there  is  to-day  one  of  the 
most  serious  and  successful  literary  clubs  in 
America.  For  more  than  a  decade  this  club, 
with  a  membership  of  twenty-one  members, 
has  held  its  regular  weekly  meetings  during 
nine  months  of  each  year  without  ever  losing  a 
meeting  by  default  or  lack  of  interest. 

Among  the  members  of  this  club  were  several 
avowed  Emersonians,  if  familiarity  with  his 
writings  and  affectionate  appreciation  of  his 
life  and  purpose  elevate  to  this  rank.  For  a 
given  evening  Emerson  was  selected  as  the  sub- 
ject, and  that  we  might  not  be  regaled  with 
mere  reiterations  of  our  own  views,  the  duty 
of  preparing  a  paper  on  Emerson  was  assigned 
to  a  newly  elected  member,  a  clergyman  of 
mature  culture,  but,  as  later  appeared,  wholly 
out  of  touch  with  Emerson's  life  and  phil- 
osophy. The  club  assembled,  the  paper  was 
announced,  the  author  with  impressive  con- 
fidence drew  out  his  bulky  manuscript,  while 
the  members  settled  themselves  to  hear  once 
again  intelligent  and  discriminating  praise  of 
an  old  favorite. 

With  the  first  bold  words  the  members  were 
aware  that  the  author  of  the  paper  was  no  lover 
of  his  subject;  with  later  utterances  they 
pricked  up  their  ears,  straightened  themselves 
in  their  chairs,  moved  uneasily,  cast  ques- 
tioning glances  at  one  another,  and  then  sur- 
rendered themselves  to  astonishment  and  dis- 
may. In  blissful  ignorance  of  the  conster- 
nation he  had  created,  the  reader  was  intent 
upon  his  incisive  dissection  of  Emerson's 
character,  his  severe  censure  of  the  incoherent 
prose,  and  sarcastic  references  to  metrical 
deficiencies.  He  ended — and  for  the  first 
time  noted  that,  uninspired  by  love  and  un- 
illumined  by  reverent  study,  he  had  pro- 
nounced to  sensitive  lovers  of  the  New  Eng- 
land sage  a  strange  and  startling  diatribe. 

The  situation  was  so  ludicrous  as  to  forestall 
the  necessity  of  explanations  or  apologies,  but 
the  moral  was,  and  is,  as  one  of  the  members 
put  it,  that  you  must  not  presume  to  walk 
familiarly  with  Emerson  unless  in  some  meas- 
ure you  have  caught  the  "  Emersonian  stride." 
Univtrsity  of  Virginia. 


The  Book-LoTT.    no.    18  i (May-June,    1903),   pp.    110-111< 


123 


Wnx  young  Archibald  Dean  went  from  the 
city— (living  out  of  which  he  had  so|ofiensaid  wae 
no  liviug  at  all) — went  down  into  the  country  to 
take  charge  of  a  little  district  school,  he  felt  as 
though  the  last  float-plank  which  buoyed  him  up 
on  hope  and  happiness,  was  sinking,  and  he  with 
it    But  poverty  is  as  stern,  if  not  as  sure,  as  death 
and  taxes,  which  Franklin  called  the  surest  things 
of  the  modern  age.    And  poverty  compelled  Ar- 
chie Dean  ;  for  when  the  destructive  New- Yrok 
fire  of  '35  happened,  ruiuing  so  mauy  property 
owners  and  erewhile  rich  merchants,  it  ruiued  the 
insurance  offices,  which  of  course  ruined  those 
whose   little  wealth  had  been  invested  iu  their 
stock.    Among  hundreds  and  thousands  of  other 
hapless  people,  the  aged,  the  husbandless,  the  or- 
phan, and  the  invalid,  the  widow  Dean  lost  every 
dollar  on  which  she  depended  for  subsistence  in 
her  waning  life.    It  was  not  a  very  great  deal ; 
still  it  had  yielded,  and  was  supposed  likely  to 
yield,  an  income  large  enough  for  her  support, 
and  the  bringing  up  of  her  two  boys.     But,  when 
the  first  shock  passed  over,  the  cheerful-souled 
woman  dashed  aside,  as  much  as  she  could,  all 
gloomy  thoughts,  and  determined  to  stem  the 
waters  of  roaring  fortune  yet.    What  troubled  her 
much,  peinaps  most,  was  the  way  of  her  son  Ar- 
chibald.   "  Unstable  as  water,"  even  his  youth 
was  not  a  sufficient  excuse  for  his  want  of  energy 
and  resolution ;  and  she  experienced  many  sad 
moments,  in  her  maternal  reflections,  ending  with 
the  fear  that  he  would  "  not  excel."    The  young 
man  had  too  much  of  that  inferior  sort  of  pride 
which  fears  to  go  forth  in  public  with  anything 
short  of  fashionable  garments,  and  hat  and  boots 
fit  for  fashionable  criticism.     His  cheeks  would 
tingle  with  shame  at  being  seen  in  any  working 
capacity :  his  heart  sunk  within  him,  if  his  young 
friends  met  him  when  he  showed  signs  of  the  ne- 
cessity of  labor,  or  of  the  absence    of  funds. 
Moreover,  Archie  looked  on  the  dark  side  of  his 
life  entirely  too  often ;  he  pined  over  his  deficien- 
cies, as  he  called  them,  by  which  he  meant  men- 
tal as  well  as  pecuniary  wants. But  to  do 

the  youth  justice,  his  good  qualities  must  be  told, 
too.  He  was  unflinchingly  honest;  he  would 
have  laid  out  a  fortune,  had  he  possessed  one, 
for  his  mother's  comfort ;  he  was  hot  indisposed  to 
work,  and  work  faithfully,  could  he  do  so  in  a 
sphere  equal  to  bis  ambition  ;  he  had  a  benevolent, 
candid  soul,  and  none  of  the  darker  vices  which 
are  so  common  among  the.  young  fellows  of  our 
great  cities. 

A  good  friend,  in  whose  house  she  could  be  use- 
ful, furnished  the  widow  with  a  gladly  accepted 
380 


shelter ;  and  thither  she  also  took  her  younger  boy, 
the  sickly,  pale  child,  the  light-haired  little  David, 
who  looked  thin  enough  to  be  blown  all  away  by 
a  good  breeze.  And  happening  accidentally  to 
hear  of  a  country  district,  where  for  poor  pay  and 
coarse  fare,  a  school  teacher  was  required,  and 
finding  on  inquiry  that  Archie,  who  though  little 
more  than  a  boy  himself,  had  a  fine  education, 
would  fill  the  needs  of  the  office,  thither  the 
young  man  was  fain  to  betake  him,  sick 
at  soul,  and  hardly  restraining  unmanly  tears  as 
his  mother  kissed  his  cheek,  while  he  hugged  his 
brother  tightly,  the  next  hour  being  to  find  him 
some  miles  on  his  journey.  But  it  mutt  be.  Had 
he  not  ransacked  every  part  of  the  city  for  em- 
ployment as  a  clerk  ?  And  was  he  not  quite 
ashamed  to  be  any  longer  a  burthen  on  other  peo- 
ple for  his  support  7 

Toward  the  close  of  the  first  week  of  his  era- 
ployment ,  the  entering  upon  which,  with  the  feel- 
ings and  circumstances  of  the  beginning,  it  is  not 
worth  while  to  narrate,  Archie  wrote  a  long  let- 
ter to  his  mother,  (strange  as  It  may  seem  to  most 
men,  she  was  also  his  confidential  friend,)  of  which 
the  following  is  part : 

"  —  You  may  be  tired  of  such  outpourings 
of  spleen,  but  my  experience  tells  me  that  I  shall 
feel  better  after  writing  them  ;  and  I  am  in  that 
mood  when  sweet  music  would  confer  on  me  no 
pleasure.  Pent  up  and  cribbed  here  among  a  set 
of  beings  to  whom  grace  and  refinement  are  un- 
known, with  no  sunshine  ahead,  have  I  not  reason 
to  feel  the  gloom  over  me  7  Ah,  poverty,  what  a 
devil  thou  art!  How  many  high  desires,  how 
many  aspirations  after  goodness  and  truth  thou 
hast  crushed  under  thy  iron  heel !  What  swelling 
hearts  thou  hast  sent  down  to  the  silent  house, 
after  a  long  season  of  strife  and  bitterness  !  What 
talent,  noble  as  that  of  great  poets  and  philoso- 
phers, thou  dost  doom  to.pine  in  obscurity,  or  die 
in  despair !  *  *  •  Mother,  my  throat  chokes,  ' 
and  my  blood  almost  stops,  when  I  see  around  me 
so  many  people  who  appear  to  be  born  into  the 
world  merely  to  eat  and  sleep,  and  run  the  same 
dull  monotonous  round — and  think  that  I  too  must 
fall  in  this  current,  and  live  and  die  in  vain !" 

Poor  youth,  how  many,  like  you,  have  looked 
on  man  and  life  in  the  same  ungracious  light! 
Has  God's  all-wise  providence  ordered  things 
wrongly,  then  7  Is  there  discord  in  the  machinery 
which  moves  systems  of  worlds,  and  keeps  them 
in  their  harmonious  orbits  7  O,  no  i  there  is  dis- 
cord in  your  own  heart ;  in  that  lies  the  darkm 
and  the  tangle.  To  the  young  man,  with 
and  a  vigilant  spirit,  then  is  shame  is 


CO 
CO 

I 

o 

CO 


CO 

■«• 

CO 


a 


of 


a 
o 

«H 
C 


St 

+» 
U 

el 

xn 


S 
o 
u 


124 


dency.  Here  we  have  a  world,  a  thousand '  are* 
nuee  to  usefulness  and  to  profit  stretching  in  far  dit. 
tancee  around  ua.  la  (Aw  the  place  for  a  failing 
soul  ?  la  yontk  the  time  to  yield,  when  the  race 
la  juat  begun  t 

But  a  ohanged  spirit,  the  happy  result  of  one 
particular  incident,  and  of  several  trains  of  clearer 
thought,  began  to  away  the  aoul  of  Archie  Dean 
in  the, course  of  the  summer :  for  it  waa  at  the  be- 
ginning of  spring  that  he  commenced  his  labors 
and  felt  hit  severest  deprivations.  There  is  rare- 
ly, too,  a  refreshing  influence  in  open-air  nature, 
and  in  natural  scenery,  with  occasional  leisure  to 
enjoy  it,  which  begets  in  a  man's  mind  truer  and 
heartier  reflections,  analyzes  and  balances  his  de- 
cisions, and  clarifies  them  if  thoy  are  wrong,  so 
that  he  sees  his  mistakes — an  influence  that  takes 
the  edge  off  many  a  vapory  paug,  and  neutralises 
many  a  loas,  which  is  most  a  loss  in  imagination. 
Whether  this  suggestion  be  warranted  or  not,  there 
was  no  doubt  that  the  discontented  young  teach- 
er's spirits  were  eventually  raised  and  sweetened 
by  his  country  life,  by  his  long  walks  over  the 
hills,  by  his  rides  on  horseback  every  Saturday, 
his  morning  rambles  and  his  evening  saunters  ;  by 
his  coarse  living,  even,  and  the  untainted  air  and 
water,  which  seemed  to  make  better  blood  in  his 
veins.  Gradually,  too,  he  found  something  to  admire 
in  the  character  and  customs  of  the  unpolished 
country-folk ;  their  sterling  sense  on  most  practi- 
cal subjects,  their  hospitality,  and  their  industry. 

One  day  Archie  happened  to  be  made  acquaint- 
ed with  the  history  of  one  of  the  peculiar  charac- 
ters of  the  neighborhood— an  ancient,  bony,  yel- 
low-faced maiden,  whom  he  had  frequently  met, 
and  who  seemed  to  be  on  good  terms  with  every- 
body ;  her  form  and  face  receiving  a  welcome, 
with  all  their  contiguity  and  fadednoas,  wherever 
and  whenever  they  appeared.  In  the  girlhood  of 
this  long-born  spinster,  her  father's  large  farm  had 
been  entirely  lost  and  sold  from  him,  to  pay  the 
debts  incurred  by  his  extravagance  and  dissipa- 
tion. The  consequent  ruin  to  the  family  peace 
which  followed,  made  a  aingularly  deep  impression 
on  the  girl's  mind,  and  she  resolved  to  get  the 
whole  farm  back  again.  This  determination  camo 
to  form  her  life— the  greater  part  of  it — aa  much 
as  her  bodily  limbs  and  veins.  She  waa  a  shrewd 
creature ;  she  worked  hard ;  she  received  the 
small  payment  which  is  given  to  female  labor ; 
she  persisted  ;  night  and  day  found  her  still  at  her 
tasks,  which  were  of  every  imaginable  descrip- 
tion ;  long — long — long  years  passed  ;  youth  fled, 
(and  it  waa  aaid  she  had  been  quite  handsome) ; 
many  changes  of  ownership  occurred  in  the  farm 
itself ;  she  confided  her  resolve  all  that  time  to  no 
human  being ;  she  hoarded  her  gains ;  all  other 
passions — love  even,  gave  way  to  her  one  great 
resolve  ;  she  watched  her  opportunity,  and  even- 


tually conquered  her  object!  She  not  only  clear- 
ed the  farm,  but  was  happy  in  furnishing  her  old 
father  with  a  home  there  for  years  before  bis  death. 
And  when  one  comes  to  reflect  on  the  disadvanta- 
ges under  which  a  woman  labors,  in  the  strife  for 
gain,  this  will  appear  a  remarkable,  almost  an  in- 
credible case.  And  then,  again,  when  one  thinks 
how  surely,  though  ever  so  slowly  and  step  by 
step,  perseverance  has  overcome  apparently  insu- 
perable difficulties,  the  fact— /or  fa*  foregoing 
incident  it  a /met — may  not  appear  so  atrange. 

Archie  felt  the  narrative  of  this  old  maid's  do- 
ings as  a  rebuke— a  sharp-pointed  moral  to  him- 
self and  his  infirmity  of  purpose.  Moreover,  the. 
custom  of  his  then  way  of  life  forced  him  into 
habits  of  more  thorough  activity ;  ho  had  to  help 
himself  or  go  unhelped  ;  he  found  a  novel  satisfac- 
tion in  that  highest  kind  of  independence  which 
consists  in  being  able  to  do  the  offices  of  one's  own 
comfort,  and  achieve  resources  and  capacities  "  at 
home,"  whereof  to  place  happiuess  beyond  the 
reach  of  variable  circumstances,  or  of  the  servi- 
ces of  the  hireling,  or  even  of  the  uses  of  fortune. 
The  ehange  waa  not  a  sudden  one:  few  great 
changes  are.  But  his  heart  was  awakened  to  his 
weakness ;  the  seed  was  sown  ;  Archie  Dean  felt 
that  he  could  expand  bis  nature  by  means  of  that 
very  nature  itself.  Many  times  he  flagged ;  but 
at  each  fretful  falling  back,  he  thought  of  the 

yellow-faced  dame,  and  roused  himself  again 

Meantime,  changes  occurred  in  the  mother's  con- 
dition. Archie  was  called  home  to  weep  at  the 
death-bed  of  little  David.  Even  that  helped 
work  out  the  revolution  in  his  whole  make  ;  he 
felt  that  on  him  rested  the  responsibility  of  making 
the  widow's  last  years  comfortable.  "  I  shall 
give  up  my  teacher's  place,"  said  he  to  his  mother, 
"  and  come  to  live  with  you  ;  we  will  have  the 
same  homo,  for  it  is  best  so."  And  so  he  did.  And 
the  weakness  of  the  good  .youth's  heart  never  got 
entirely  the  better  of  him  afterward,  but  -in  the 
course  of  a  season,  was  put  to  flight  utterly.  This 
second  time  he  made  employment.  With  an  iron  will 
he  substituted  action  and  cheerfulness  for  despond- 
ency and  a  fretful  tongue.  He  met  his  fortunes  aa 
they  came,  face  to  face,  andshirked  no  conflict.  In- 
deed, he  folt  it  glorious  to  vanquish  obstacles.  For 
his  mother  he  furnished  a  peaceful,  plentiful  home ; 
and  from  the  hour  of  David's  death,  never  did  hie 
tongue  utter  words  other  than  kindness,  or  his  lips, 
whutever  annoyances  or  disappointments  came, 
cease  tooffer  their  cheerfullest  smile  in  her  presence. 

Ah,  for  how  many  the  morose  habit  which  Ar- 
chie rooted  out  from  his  nature,  becomes  by  long 
usage  and  indulgence  rooted  in,  and  spreads  its 
bitterness  over,  their  existence,  and  darkens  the 
peace  of  their  families,  and  carries  them  through 
the  spring  and  early  rammer  of  life  with  no  in- 
halement  of  sweets,  and  no  plucking  of  flowers ! 


«BDts<rrg  wimi' 

frttonrrtha  lore  of  paradox  that  c«a 
c«B  la  question  iM  eminent  rank  of  Mr. 
ft— ■ ■  in  Aaaertcaa  latter*  Froa  the 
oammenoemeut  of  his  career,  hla  toflnaaoi 
baa  been  constantly  gaining  in  r-iinaarr 
sna  power.  At  firat  ha  was  ir*«*»»<««fl  bv 
a  throat  of  enthusiastic  admnm.  who  re- 
garded him  with  a  sentiment  littta  abort  or 
worship,  and  would  tela  alerata  bin  Id  the 
position  of  a  demigod.  Thar  totaled  htm 
aa  the  prophet  of  the  coating  age;  they 
banc  npon  his  worda  aa  the  atteraocee  of  an 
apocalyptic  inspiration ;  and,  entranced  by 
the  aolemn  charm  of  his  eloquence,  they 
rereled  in  new  visions  of  the  Beautiful  and 
the  Good.  Theee  eaiiy  dbeiplea(tox  that  term 
la  not  too  strong  to  express  the  ardor  of 
their  devotion)  were  for  the  most  pari  la  the 
freshness  of  yonth;  many  of  mem  were 
lone  and  sentimental  women ;  all  of  them 
sabjecta  of  a  senaitiTe,  excitable  tempera- 
ment, which  contrasted  strangely  with  the 
reserve  and  self-possession  of  the  master. 

But  this  circle  was  comparatively  limited 
The  pub'le  at  large  did  not  share  their  sym- 
pathy. Vhe  new  teacher  waa  regarded 
with  distrust,  both  on  account  of  the  novelty 
of  his  doctrine  and  the  strangeness  of  his 
manner.  Many  looked  on  him  as  a  false 
light,  while  the  more  charitable  were  in 
doubt  whether  to  consider  him  as  a  rising 
star,  a  comet  whose  path  had  not  yet  been 
calculated,  or  a  transient  meteor.  They 
complained  of  the  oracular  tone  of  his  dis- 
course, positive  In  expression  bat  obscure 
in  significance;  without  method,  without 
order,  without  logical  sequence ;  imposing 
liy  its  boldness  and  stately  rhetoric,  bat 
fragmentary,  Incoherent,  often  contradictory 
of  itself;  they  were  tempted  to  place  it 
among  the  passing  affectations  of  the  day, 
with  the  character  of  a  rhapsody,  rather 
than  a  revelation.  Gradually  a  deeper 
meaning  was  detected  beneath  the  auda- 
cious imagery  and  erratic  diction  of  the 
calm  innovator.  Men  began  to  discover 
that  he  spoke  with  the  spirit  of  the  seer, 
rather  than  the  arts  of  the  scribe.  A  wider 
audience  was  gathered  around  hla  feet 
Persons  of  thought,  as  well  as  of  sentiment, 
were  attracted  by  his  teachings,  which  gave 
them  new  conceptions  of  the  wisdom  of 
nature  and  the  purposes  of  life.  Like 
Goethe,  Carlylc,  Victor  Hugo,  and  other 
foremost  men  of  the  age,  he  was  found  to 
conceal  beneath  an  almost  whimsical  pecu- 
liarity of  language  a  mass  of  earnest  con- 
victions and  original  views  of  man  and  the 
universe.  IT  is  fame  spread  to  foreign  lands. 
Ilis  writings  entered  Into  the  current  of 
European  civilization.    He  waa  recognized 

*  A  Review  from  The 
Independent  of  1867. 


125 

■THsK  *>»•  f>>w  nt*»  who  rlvaafrash  tm- 
pwrne  to  numan  intellect  ana  wnoas  mass 
outlive  tne  enoen  ch  box  nan— wr.  Re  has 
indeed  lomidad  no  school.  Hainan  nil  Devo- 
ur movement,  riven  nie  nams  to  no  (tea* 
sect:  bat  still  few  maamrn  writers  Bars  »«n 
a  ileansi  iinrni  of  aatr  indJ wmaiitT 
open  ma  tiirnaat  canton  of  the  dar.  or  an 
the  oDiecta  or  mors  curious  wonder,  v  mm 
nf  annmiumen  sflinintlfltv  bdqm  the  moat 
maarn  ana  mmuueent  paonie 

enmc  obttf  on.  nr.  flDMttOJfn  vAb  to  a 
prommeat  place  in  Iterature  is  founded 
mainlT  am  hi*  ooeocai  aotattea.  We  Tan- 
tare  to  aav  that.  If  ha  la  not  a  mramanoec, 
hit  proapej*  of  a  mating  reputaacm  rests 
upon  an  anoartain  basU.  Tha,  peculiar 
merit  of  bis  prose  writings  grows  ant  of  tha 
poatoj  which  pervades  (hem.  Hk  tasai- 
lecIU  IntaltiTe,  contemplative,  but  not  re. 
MM.  It  contain*  no  conalderabas  per- 
mmm  the  element  which  is  essential  to  the 
pUowaMst  His  Ideas  proceed  froflUPw 
hgttt  Of  genius,  and  from  wise  obearranon 
of  Ifcaure;  they  come  in  flashes  of  inspira- 
tion and  ecatacy ;  his  pun  gold  is  found  in 
placen  near  the  surface,  not  wrought  out 
laboriously  from  the  depths  of  the  mine  in 
tha  bowels  of  the  earth.  Bat  this  is  the 
sphere  for  the  philosophic  intellect  Its 
fruits  are  the  product  of  thought,  sot  of 
spontaneous  intuition.  Its  insight  is  eight, 
directed  inwardly,  applied  to  the  objects  of 
consciousness,  not  of  the  senses ;  and  this 
process  is  essentially  deliberate,  analytic, 
and  possible  only  to  strenuous  mental  tolL 
Aristotle,  Leibnitz,  Kant  gamed  their  tri- 
umphs by  persistent  thought,  by  the  sub- 
tlest analysis  of  ideas,  by  bringing  the  sub- 
ject of  inquiry,  bit  by  bit,  within  the  focus 
of  microscopic  attention ;  not  by  any  grand 
synthetic  generalizations. 

But  in  this  department  of  intellectual  ac- 
tion Mr.  Emerson  is  evidently  not  at  home. 
He  bas  no  taste  for  the  apparently  arid  ab- 
stractions of  philosophy.  His  mind  is  not 
organized  for  the  comprehension  of  Its 
sharp  distinctions.  Its  acute  reasonings 
present  no  aharm  to  bis  fancy,  and  its  lucid 
deductions  are  to  him  as  destitute  of  fruit 
as  an  empty  nest  of  boxes.  The  claim 
which  is  sometime  made  for  him  as  a  phil- 
osophic thinker  tends  only  to  place  him  in 
a  false  position,  and  does  injustice  to  the 
admirable  endowments  which  truly  charac- 
terize his  intellect  la  the  sphere  of  pure 
reflection  he  has  -shown  neither  originality 
nor  depth.  He  has  thrown  no  light  on  the 
great  topics  of  speculation.  He  has  never 
fairly  grappled  with  the  metaphysical  prob- 
lems which  bare,  called  forth  the  noblest 
efforts  of  the  mind  in  every  age,  and  which, 
UoTyet  reduced  to  a  noattfre  aatano&atoswa 
not  oeaeed  to  enlist  tha  clearest  and  ■no*- 
*m  intellects  in  the  wonc  ox  ineir  aomnon. 
This:  is  one  reason  of  tha  disappointment 
wbJnhthe  soundest  thinkers  often  axpan- 


«no*  In  tha  first  perusal  of  Mr.  Emerson's 
writings.  They  go  to  them  with  the 
"  divine  hunger  for  troth,"  eager  for  help  in 
the  resolution  of  their  doubts,  hoping  to 
find  a  clue  to  the  labyrinth  of  existence, 
and  turn  away  with  a  painful  sense  of  In- 
nutrition. On  all  questions  of  tnis  kind 
the  writings  of  Mr.  Emerson  are  wholly 
unsatisfactory.  He  looks  at  them  only  in 
the  light  of  imagination.  He  frequently 
offers  brave  hints,  pregnant  suggestions, 
cheering  encouragements :  but  no  exposi- 
tion of  abstract  tram  has  ever  taiieu  from 
his  keen  pen.  To  call  him  a  philosopher  is 
a  dngnUr  misapplication  of  terms.  In  the 
present  case  the  man  Is  the  poet,  and  the 
poet  is  the  man.  His  productions  in  this 
kind  poesess~tha  unity  in  variety  which 
marks  the  presence  of  true  genius.  Every- 
thing which  he  has  written  shows  intense 
Individuality ;  both  in  thought  and  expres- 
sion, he  is  always  himself ;  bis  unique  style 
becomes'  almost  a  mannerism ;  but  his 
wealth  of  imagination  is  proof  against 
monotony. 

The  chief  feature  of  Mr.  Emerson's  poetry 
may  be  stated  as  the  mystic  love  of  Na- 
ture, combined  with  an  exact  observation  of 
Its  external  details.  It  Is  Inspired  by  a  fine 
sense  of  the  subtle  relations  between  the 
universe  and  the  human  soul.  Doubtless 
this  feeling  enters  largely  into  the  composi- 
tion of  all  true  poetry ;  but  tt  haa  received 
its  most  exquisite  illus*»*tir»?i«  '"  times  of 
recent  date.  It  kindled  the  genius  of  Words- 
worth and  Shelley,  and  was  the  secret  of 
their  strength ;  but  in  Mr.  Emerson  it  has 
assumed  a  new  shape  and  riven  birth  to  a 
fresh  variety  of  spiritual  creation.  The 
religious  sense  with  which  prophets  and 
holy  men  have  consecrated  certain  spots  by 
the  Drescnce  of  the  Deity  is  carried  by  him 
•to  the  universal  domain  of  Nature.  To 
b|s  mystic  vision  every  mountain  is  a  Slnal, 
etery  tree  of  the  wood  is  a  burning  bush, 
every  Dreeze  is  vocal  with  the  still,  small 
▼nice.  In  the  growth  of  plants,  the  flow  of 
streams,  the  flight  of  birds,  he  recognizes 
the  mysterious  power  which  gives  vitality 
to  thi?  soul,  if  it  be  not  indeed,  according  to 
his  stra  ngc  Oriental  fancy,  the  outward  pro- 
jection o/  the  soul  Itself.  This  rhythmical 
construction  of  the  universe,  this  subtle  har- 
mony, or  p  eihaps  identity,  of  man  with  Na- 
ture, is  an  idea  completely  foreign  to  An- 
glo-Saxon Labits  of  thought  We  can 
sqaarc  it  with  .none  of  oar  familiar  concep- 
tions, and  even  in"  the  sphere  of  poetic  free- 

ncHri  its  DcMnaaa*  Almost  seams  to  acnosam 
to.tothstottntr.  At  an  events,  tt  tires  a  cam 
tabs  obscurity  to  me  productions  ot  aur. 
Emerson,  which  conceal  their  roeanrnjr  ntaa 
tnattitM  at  readers,  and  which  la  often  mb> 
taken  for  the  absence  or  meanimr. 

Still.  In  hla  delineations  of  Nature,  eren  in 
hla  sHffhteaf  Bats  of  color  ana  texture,. pi 
form  and  order,  there  la  a  marvelous  soon- 


racv  of  expression,  snowing  a  storularty 
acuta  and  trntaroi  ere.  no  leaf  than  a  reoi- 
ant  Imagination.  In  tha  rrmnd  piomtfro 
Of  the  seasons  no  deHcaaa  nhsum  «riw  hla 
notice.  The  wonderful  nrnrr—ins  of  aeed- 
tlme  awl  harvest  an  watched  with  tha 
sevemr  or  scientific  research.  He  loves  the 
awiiw— imf  of  Nature,  and  la  never  wearv 
or  tVfSU  Into  her  mvafosriea.  hh  amualnt- 
anon  wiui  ner  wars  haa  bean  nJned  bv 
face-to-face  IntercnnriM.  U«  meet*  bar  <Ua> 
closures  with  the  lore  of  an  ancient  nunn. 
lar  Mend.  There  la  no  dlatance.  bo  formal. 
Itj,  no  reserve  between  them.  Wot  a  pro- 
duet  of  her  sweet  and  conning  hand  bat  ha 
knows  its  name,  knows  its  properties.  Tha 
pines  and  the  oaks  of  the  still  forest  recog- 
nize his  footsteps ;  *  they  nod  to  him  and 
he  nods  to  them ;"  the  stores  of  hidden 
sympathy  are  unlocked  at  hla  approach. 
In  bis  mystic  words  Nature  finds  the  echo 
of  her  own  voice,  and  acknowledges  him  aa 
her  faithful,  If  jet  oracular,  Interpreter. 

Mr.  Emerson's  apparent  coldness  of  tem- 
perament has  caused  him  to  be  accused  of 
want  of  feel  tag.  He  certainly  never  be- 
trays anything  hke  excitement  Hiamture 
shuns  all  vehemence,  accepts  nO  verbal 
force  that  is  not  founded  on  inward  force. 
He  is  as  incapable  of  the  affectation  of 
strength  as  of  any  other  species  of  insin- 
cerity. Truth  of  expression  is  a  primary 
want  of  his  intellect,  and  always  prevents 
the  indulgence  of  eager  demonstrations. 
Hence  to  many  readers  he  may  seem  cold. 
Without  "  the  volcano's  tongue  of  flame," 
they  perceive  not  "  the  burning  core  below." 
Tet  a  deeper  sentiment  than  often  finds  vent 
in  words  glows  at  the  heart  of  Mr.  Emer- 
son's poetry.  His  feeling,  however,  has  the 
quality  of  depth  and  earnestness,  sometimes 
hinting  at  a  certain  Hebrew  solemnity 
rather  than  of  ardent  sympathy.  He  is  not 
apt  to  take  his  readers  into  friendly  counsel, 
rarely  does  he  draw  them  near  his  heart ; 
but  rather  speaks  to  them  to  his  grand,  aus- 
tere tones  from  some  lofty  hight  of  isolation. 
Not  a  trace  of  effeminacy,  of  the  weak  in- 
dulgence even  of  the  purest  passion,  ever 
Impairs  the  conscious  serenity  of  his  spirit 
Bis  inspiration  flows  from  the  intellect,  or 
rather  from  the  supreme  poetical  faculty,  to 
a  aw greater  degree  than  from  the  affection*. 
Bflt  be  is  not  without  freauent  touches  el 


126 

nan  tenderness.  Hie  lore  of  humanity  Is 
greater  than  that  of  (he  individual:  and  he 
lores  humanity  more  in  its  idea]  aspects 
haa  to  its  actual  relations  A  doubt  of  the 
of  the  race  sot  unirequentiy 
ill  ever  hla  I— tomtom  thoneh 
i  events  to  -our  history  have  given 
icosMceaaent  and  hla  as*. 
born  hopes,  at  uaass,  seem  to  rise  almost  to 


Mf;  Emrrwu  m  St.  Louis. 


UJUl 


Bathos,    never  baa  paternal 
sXWow  for  the  death  of  a  child  round 
trntv  human  utterance  than  in  his 
"Threnody;'*  net  i    brother's  lews 
nor*  tuuy  expressed uub  a  marew 
aWMeo  w  awry 

MfttaOoB  of  h*i»enB0»i» 


As  an  artist. Mr.  Emerson  exhibits  (he, 
same  fidelity  to  his  own  ideas  which  he  haa  l 
always  taken  tor  his  guide  in  the  Dursnit  of1 
truth,  rue  osnsnueoon  ox  nts  verse  is  as 
usioue  as  hla  mental  idloavncrasv.  It  cer- 
tainly betrays  incidentally  toe  Droor  ot  a 
rare  noetic  culture.  Hie  masteriv  command 
of  English  shows  a  careful  studv  of  the  best 
sources  of  the  Isactuure ;  but  not  a  aim  of 
Imitation  can  be  tound  to  his  writings— not 
even  the  use  of  the  imagery  which  has  been 
consecrated  bv  the  habit  of  aires.  His  1  ines 
are  onen  abrupt  sometimes  even  a  mue 
uncoum,  out  never  deficient  in  mannmnn 
atrnn  rin.  w  itn  n*>  oretension  to  the  Anise 
and  smoothness  whkh  give  such  an  artistic 
grace  to  the  poems  or  Tennyson,  wey  pre- 
sent frequent  surprises  of  dainty  melody, 
and  charm  aa  much  by  the  sweetness  of 
their  low  as  by  the  grandeur  of  their 
thought 

The  present  volume   affords   attraarlv* 
specimens  of  Mr.  Emerson's^haracteristic 
talent  in  his  various  styles  of  composition. 
It  opens 'With  one  of  his  longest  produc- 
tions, celebrating  the  return  of  Spring,  but 
free  from  the  commonplace  sentlmentaliam 
which  forms  the  usual'  staple  of  the  poetry 
of  the  seasons.     A  summer  tour  to  the 
Adirondacs  furnishes  the  theme  of  the  next 
poem,  which  gives  a  familiar  description  of 
the  experience  of  a  party  of  friends  in  pur- 
suit of  health  and  recreation  in  that  breesy 
locality.    At  the  head  of  tha  miscellaneous 
pieces  stand  the  four  mystaflsua  stanzas  en- 
titled "  Brahms,"  whkh  repeat  the  ancient 
riirtU  without  a  hint  at  iataotation.    Mssrv 
oMKeVaaorter  noems  have  been  auavested 
bv  the  recent  nraxxie  lor  freedom,  aao 
evtoee  a  anirft  to  mil  *ba  vital  avansmv 
wun  toe  treat  Drtociolea  then  at  stake.  The 
i  on  "  Friendship"  are  an  ex- 
sir.  SaMBVaVa  aaost  human  veto. 
[  what  wa  aanat  «a  for  lack  of  a 
i  ma  analetnesa  of  exrsrssstoa  i 
r«s»efsaj 


devotion  to  the  martrt  and  the  Tree,  a  nro- 
tbrssmw  eowtenaat  for  all  tow  (htoktoe 
■Bath  workmc.   His  standard  of  charac- 
ter is  ot  the  loftiest,  but  it  haa  mote  or  the 
nature  of  stoical  sublimity  than  of  Chrls- 


«JU>  aXAHIMSD. 

I  aiva  von  below  an  imnenect  abstract  of  Emer- 
son's lecture  here  before  toe  PhilosoDliical  Socie- 
ty, and  some  fragments  of  the  conversation  which 
■on-ewea.  mflreYV  bremisinir  that  the  letter*  denot- 
rag  use  MttSKerS  are  not  uree  taKen  aa  tha  nmui. 
"*  ,,J-"  tamps*  wifn  the  exeeotion  of  "It." 
wldebttaneji  for  BflHrsba.  The  conversation  i» 
■St  a  weave  *swj  pmeet  thtag  in  itseir.  so  mucs  *• 
a  ceaecnoa-et  tnoaimu  and  idea*  which  war* 
thrown  out  try  wie  atnt-retrt  sne-sker*.  and  which 
em  meaatv*  rsisabie  foe  their  sugge.tMei.ew. 
■awssiajialLfahe  Isetore  was  "lnsoirauon." 

it  u  alSBYva  safe  for  one  to  keen  to  i.ersonali- 
ties.  IT  htfstaru  to  develop  a  tlieory  ot  the  uni- 
verse Nature  trlns  him  up;  but  when  he  s[h  aks 
or  his  own  experience  he  is  irrefutable.  The 
streaui  of  our  thought  is  like  that  of  a  river  in  its 
flowing,  and  as  every  nver  tnakes  tor  itscit  it* 
own  valley  and  its  own  banks,  so  this  river  ol 
mougnt  in  valley,  iu  banks,  and  its  observer,  too. 

The  iclcnco  01  mina  progresses  slowly  auu  lias 
not  gone  far.  liow  much  of  it  do  wc  rcallv  hold  ? 
£hia  we  know,  that  a  man's  possessions  arc  con- 
tained in  tne  habitual  outbreak  which  he  casts  on 
larasoudeng  objects.  What  he  habitually  gaiae 
from  them  shows  us  what  he  is.  what  he  haa.  It 
seems  that  there  is  something-  in  us  that  knows 
■ore  aisa  we  oursotves.  and  in  doubt  we  ask. 
'•nnoiawno-!  rr men  is  myseif?"  This  other 
is  a  sort  of  dump  life  in  life,  a  simple  wisdom  bv 
yunu  au  acquircu  wisaoia,  a  soineuiing  not 
teamed.  It  speaks,  saving  "Ave"  or  "Nn"  lo 
everv  oroDoaitioa.  and  these  words  are  more  mu- 
etcal  than  all  eloquence.  To  it  ah  things  are  al- 
ready well  known,  and.  as  knowin*  things  to  their 
essence,  it  ludtrcs  not  bv  nuantitv  but  bv  quality. 
It  doeaaot  nut  forth  organs,  but  rests  in  presence. 
It  does  not  show  obtecu.  but  the  wav  to  them. 
Every  once  in  a  while,  through  m  power,  an  iuea 
comes  to  iiirnt  whose  validity  all  acknowieaae. 
What  is  this  mysterious  being!  No  one  has  de- 
scribed it.  We  vail  it  instinct,  and  when  u  is  ex- 
cited it  is  iiuniration.  It  is  the  secret  of  the 
world,  and  opens  to  each  soul  as  it  is  obeyed;  and 
so,  sod  only  so.  ail  oontradictions  are  reconciled. 

Tha  mim.  the  servants,  know  no  more  of  the 
mind,  tbe  master,  to  whom  they  minister,  than  the 
granite  nuis  snow  01  tne  salt  sea.  me  essence 
or  things  is  not  new;  our  seeing  11  is  not.  auu 
yet  orrry  in  so  tor  as  we  see  it  we  share  Its  hie 
and  sovereurntr.  in  perception  we  have  tbe  as- 
similation or  toe  seer  to  the  thing  seen.  Everv 
perception  IS  a  geoerallkatlon.  And  everv  gen- 
eralised statement  is  posxrseo  dv  being  made  per- 
aonai.  One  man  excels  another  by  detecting  more 
cfeartv  the  Taws  or  mans.  The  Emwlians  could 
not  measure  their  pyramids,  but  Tliates  came  "and 
tne  Nadow^Esst  bv  my  staff  is  to  the 
or  s»e  seswra*  is  the  lenxth  or  me  shadow 
to  the  height  of  the  pyramid," 
The  man  witn  a  new 
er  rite  race.  Here  we 
*•'•"  ■hetOTbtlT  human  viewer,  tar  whatever  is 
»»*i««rhawv  seen  is  so,  rmrrreny,  accomplished 
rekwrxprefe*/  oTcUsntVenon  anu  new  ion  s  01  m- 
oaetwjw  were  m  rooa  n  a  lowgevny  01  inoosanas 
hfyffatrs.    TherJishioml  laid  been  known  Tor  i 


mum  fxrwisr of  rctnw*iiwj  ai-wert;  wtnoona.had 
ever  deemed  it  combustible.     NewTrJh,  Knowing 

MM*  Wawajaa  Mf  Mp4UMI«*iMI*ltji  «kat  lao 
aatt«— n:an tahraa  <w  havamiha 
;  1  aaaariiaeuaiaowed  aha.  fc  *  as  Oaty  i>mp 


Now,  thn>  fa*raky  Mat  #▼•»,  it  if  tke  calami 
ty  at  Mil  m— M  ottisaara  »ai  ha  baa  aot  corf 
an  oat  Meat*  UWHJXl*  caHaaawht.  There'sT? 
reaavy  *w  ataaavatt.  If  ae  eonUdtr  th*  sayings 
of  BHMi,  or  vr*«rw«BO,  ateu  #11001  we  are  accus- 
WM  am  m—  «  Ob*  thmwoci.  we  Hnd.  on 
imMM  a—*.  tiiartsaw  "hove  iMwl  acarwlv  one 
really  new  thought  to  the  previous  stash  of  the 
worbi.  Wftmm  wewwt  inter  Has  mtfaigM  ahy. 
*  ««  h  «t  dMt  Mm  Kan  am  auMMwriaas.  imk  ■ 
one  deliberately  makes  tho  effort  ho  wal  find  taem 
oaawy  — aetoiWa  tbaasaail  w  tm**nij. 

A  "a*  TJOaartT  StoAt  tfce  raitU.  laaaldenac 
»ny  period  ceiefttatodlrrr  ItolMeTWctflal  BFIHiancy. 
w>  Khali  rind  but  lew  really  new  Ideas.  Kven  in 
this  period"  It  Is  so.  Theories  arc  tew :  intellectual 
Biooda  are  rare.  it  is  as  with  the  heavens  agafn. 
At  •**  Casabriago  Oswerraiory  Men  i»  scarcely 
•no  ruwat  to  a  month  favorable  to  observations. 
afiU  Heischel  says  that  in  England  those-  are  nut 
WBota  maauma  handrail  hours  in  a  year,  the  eu- 
inmc  of  JMiglana.fcoina  uuia  imroranic.  on  we 
have  few  u*vs  aad  hours  whieh  axo  reallv  favor- 
Ma  to  aaantar  uasamliOs.  H  m  not  «arv  an  ab- 
sence or  onlwaM  flteiartanw  that  hrwjwssaty. 
Suoh  iruaMs  are  aaaa.  but  TJlBy  are  ThJt  aD.  We 
carmot  go  straight  towarus«m..a«vo*  mw**"  "" 
if  •wii'"  "  ^-■'■""  towatiia itfMOA asrtunaaa 
l*V4oo>  for  it  we  fYMiiq.,sal>yJMlft  atraigbt*olvent 
jmmiI  y  waaM  *alva«u»aaja«IL«uul  wcahoulti  bo 
liberated  into  tae  mu««c 

Vs  mast  thereforu  practise  eaonomy  of.  oo* 
host  moods.  Where  shall  we  buy.powerl  Moaoy 
iaanlv  lha  second,  nottaeflrst  ii*ray.  cvjufrse, 
•ret.  ttJMd  U*»  wildest  ttoxEsu  dul  wnere  saaifwa 
obtaia  Jha  j»wer  to  tania.iha  i*i»\  cuur»erTi 
fhmiKni  ana  raTKTm>  rwwm  to  ©nr  wni?  Every 
ypjutn,  sh^'ln"  know  this  so  fhat  he  may  prophesy, 
vt^rsomerrmes  hear  toiiiw  nenwwis  «n*>»fc  of  the 
rn«h  nf  tlinmrtrts  which  almost  ovemower  theas. 
The-y  feel  as  ir  tneW  heads  woQIfl  burst:  btit  wo 
need  not  M  anxious  mr  mem.  It  is  all  a  fiUoo 
alarm.  A  rml  man  or  t noughts  would  be  prosper- 
ity: ana  That  prosperity  we  fain  would  hare;  baa 
Ute  mute  is  cot  and  csnruaaa*:  ana  to  train  nor 
services  we  mint  luunor  the  mind  in  every  way, 
and  not  harness  it. 

I'liular  says,  ">'either  i>y  Kca  nor  land  slmlt 
thou  rind  a  way  to  the  llyperbarcans,  but  through 
the  air."  Few  though  they  may  he,  those  are 
happy  hours  in  which  the  oracle  speaks,  when  we 
clearly  perceive  truth.  We  cannot  tame  thought, 
hut  it  firei  us.  We  arc  so  weak  thutuncw  thought 
it  like  a  god  to  us.  Nor  does  any  thought  stand 
alone,  for  as  everything  is  in  a  series  so  are 
thoughts.  They  lead  and  follow  one  another- 
They  r.ii«e  us  to  themselves;  they  add  wings  and 
eyes  to  the  mind.  And  gradually  we  get  used  to 
them,  and  can  determine  and  recognize  them. 
This  waiting  for  and  recognizing  of  thought 
brings  a  certain  kind  of  peculiarity  into  the  being. 
Aristotle  says,  "No  great  genius  is  ever  without  a 
degree  of  madness." 


127 

The  effect  of  a  new  thought  upon  an  idle  mind  is 
like  that  produced  on  a  cube  of  iron  by  bringing  it 
into  the  circuit  of  a  strong  magnetic  current.  Front 
an  impassive  mass  it  instantly  becomes  instinct  »  ith 
life,  and  adheres  to  all  others  that  may  he  near  it. 
A  mighty  thought  comes  sailing  on  silent  wings, 
and  tills  us  with  its  virtue,  and  sets  us  up  like  Atlas, 
and  we  uphold  the  world.  But  this  is  onlv  at 
rare  intervals  and  in  such  insecurity  of  position; 
life  in  like  a  thunder-storm,  where  one  moment  all 
things,  oven  the  most  remote,  are  clear  and  dis- 
tinct, and  the  next  we  cannot  see  even  the  near- 
est. How  shall  we  learn  to  control  our  moods  ' 
If  some  intellectual  Franklin  could  teach  us  how 
to  draw  the  electricity  from  the  clouds !  Are  our 
moods  under  our  control* 

How  many  sources  of  inspiration  can  we  num- 
jber?  I  celebrate  health  as  the  first  muse,  and  sleep 
as  the  condition  of  health.  Life,  for  short  periods, 
is  sometimes  despair;  but  we  sleep  and  wake  hope- 
ful, and,  in  the  glow  of  our  waking,  "white 
thoughts  stand  luminous  and  firm  like  statues  in 
the  sun."  A(  we  have  diurnal,  so  we  have  secular 
currents.  Sometimes  there  are  long  periods  of 
passivity,  and  then  the  faculties  revive  again. 
Niehuhr  lost  for  years  his  power  of  interpreting 
history,  and  then  recovered  it.  A  second  source 
of  inspiration  is  solitary  converse  with  nature. 
The  spring  days,  the  summer  dawns,  speak  of 
truth.  Arc  you  poetical?  Place  an  JEolian 
harp  in  your  window,  and  it  will  admit  you  to 
ninny  a  secret.  Thirdly,  believe  in  the  morning. 
Oo  not  let  anything  disturb  your  solitude.  In 
summer  I  seek  a  country  inn,  in  winter  a  city 
hotel,  fur  there  all  the  circumstances  of  life  are 
of  no  moment,  and  one  commands  an  astronomical 
leisure.  We  must  regard  trifles,  for  the  machine 
with  which  we  are  to  work  is  of  the  greatest  del- 
icacy, and  a  breath  will  disturb  it.  We  must  be 
warm,  for  no  thought  can  flow  when  the  mercury 
is  telow  a  certain  point.  Being  forced  to  use  a 
stoei-pon  utterly  destroys  for  some  freedom  of 
twTauBht,  Certain  localities,  mountains,  the  wowis, 
llKj-setfTiliorc,  a*!'  excitants  HinKonics.  I  name, 
fourth,  new  poetry  as  an  excitant  andtonic.  And 
liy  tnis  1  mcnr»old  poetry  which  is  new  to  you. 
Sometimes  even  single  words,  used  in  a  new 
sense,  Hash  a  wonderful  light  through  the  mind. 
Conversation  with  a  chosen  friend  has  singular 
productive  power.  Because  one  speaks  well,  the 
other  speaks  better,  and  each  excites  the  other  to 
new  inspiration.  But  newspapers,  polities,  nov- 
els,— French  novels, — hinder  rather  than  help. 
We  may  read  Milton,  Chaucer,  and — in  your  ear 
— Ossian.  Only  the  newest  knowledge  is  good 
for  inspiration. 

After  all.  wc  cannot  tell  why  or  how  it  comes 
and  goes,  this  inspiration  Something  strikes  the 
electric  chain  with  which  we  are  all  darkly  bound, 
and  the  current  answers.  Poppy-leaves  aro 
strewn  wherever  generalizations  have  been  made, 
so  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  remember  what 
circumstances  called  up  the  generalizing  power. 
On  this  point  of  inspiration  statistics  wonnt  be 
very  desirable.  To  some  here  present  this  it 
not  so  much  an  empirical  science  as  to  me.  Can 
they  not  give  us  their  results  obtained  from  the 
strsighter  process? 

,tf. — In  this  inspiration  as  much  a  question  of 


fc    ** 


--;  -   f? 


^T  ti    -    2  *- 


-r    S    b 


C  ■  -  -  y> 

*  T  .t  c  .=  = 
■-  =  k  <  *  5 

•  e  3  "s 


S      4) 


e    c    >  .-    - 


'•=  -5   =   f   * 


O    -3     O     > 


1    c 


c 


S  -    * 


W.  C 

-  c 


£  8 

V  c 

>  ti 

E 


IS    o 


i>    z 


~    -  H         rt  _ 


C     r. 


H  £  .£ 
■5.  ic 


S  I  £  S  S 1  ? 

.5  §  S  *■  £  *  ? 

C      >-  —  T  ■-  K  ~ 

C    ^L  „.  c  -=  C  . 

-   o  i  =  5  •*  s 

g  £  £.  ~  "  k 

l*  I* 


-i  •=    t 


to 


j:  c 

3  — 

u 

—  w.     C 

a  "S  'S 

"  it   t  — 


■-  F  c  «  I  •: 


.    =   c  *.  .E 

-    s,      -      C       tt    w 


S    £  — 


Sis 


>.  ? 


3  Si 
*  »■  - 


—       « 


«    C  -5.    c 


^:  —  —    «     «    c   .- 


-  ?  ^  £  e  c 


c     «     *    —     ^ 


f    E 

c   -■ 


=    > 


■X     c    —    .~ 


c   ~ 


C    S  = 


30^: 

=  g  r 

E-  : 


B«a 


£  s  c  £ 


►%  ^: 


H  ?  ^< 


^  - 

c;    «   w 


^    /.   "c    n    «   /. 


!>*—  ^ou  say  tolf-consciousness  knowt  more 
tl.nrTWu  ourtelv^a,  Bwt  what  is  turn  master  of 
im>9.  and  in  what  relation  docs  mind  stand  to  *e 
senses?     Wlwiicc  is  inspiration? 

J/.—  All  first  knowing  is  sensuous.  Wo  know 
things  isoUtodly.  lu  the  second  stago  wc  see 
identity  or  relation*.  Is  tliere  not  a  tliird,  that  of 
speculative  knowing,  in  which  both  difference 
and  identity  are  perceived  f 

£,.— 1  accept  the  third  stage.  Vour  second 
brings  up  the  oiu  siory  01  ..venopuancs,  wlio  saw 
every where  the  one  and  the  all,  and  who  desired 
tWic  tluit  he  might  escape  from  the  ever-presenl 
identity. 

J*— The  doctrine  of  correUtion*  ot  jatmrt 
marks  tiuTsecond  stage  in  natural  BcienceT  But 
who  shall  oe  me  ncience  man  of  the  third  period  1 
When  we  find  him  he  will  solve  for  us  the  rela- 
tion of  mind  to  soul. 

/> —Would  you  say  that  the  faculty  of  gener- 
alization was  the  beat  ovid—  w  ot  genius? 

A'.— Certainly  there  can  be  no  genius  without 
that  faculty,  ns  tliere  can  also  be  none  without  im 
agination. 

T—  Hut  wnai  ao  we  mean  ay  generaliiation » 
How  much  genius,  for  instance,  is  involved  in 
forming  the  classification  of  botany? 

E. — The  natural  system  is  a  tree  generali- 
tation.  The  system  of  Linnasus  was  not  one. 
Jussieu's  is,  however. 

7 — If  by  generalization  we  mean  no  more 
than  seeing  a  common  law,  yea;  but  was  not 
Newton's  power  far  higher  than  this? 

A'.— When  Wow  ton  sees  the  apple  fall,  he  sees 
not  only  that  but  also  tliat  the  moon  is  but  anoth- 
er apple,  only  larger;  the  boy  who  sees  the 
tail,  *eos  only   the  aftfle,  and  wonder*   who  will 

tset't! 

P. — But  was  not  Newton's  discovery  owing  to 
his  profound  mathematical  and  scientific  knowl- 
edge? 

M. — No.  Newton  made  the  discovery  without 
mathematics.  He  only  verified  it  by  mathemat- 
ics after  it  was  made.  But  was  not  Goethe's  gen- 
ius one  of  the  third  stage,  Jussieu's  one  of  the 
second,  while  Linnseus's  was  of  the  first? 

'" — We  often  use  the  word  "generalization"  as 
Identical  with  "abstraction,"  and  if  it  applies  only 
to  that  it  does  not  involve  genius.  Hut  when 
trom  a  single  truth  we  seize  an  a  prmi  law,  then 
U£  do  show  genius. 

fit. — Goethe  calls  such  facta  "urphanomen," 
primitive  facts,  and  lays  great  stress  upon  them. 

'T. — What  is  the  function  of  culture, — to  create 
inspiration,  or  to  remove  hindrances,  so  that  the 
spirit  may  have  full  development?  Culture, — 
is  it  not  to  free  us  from  bridles,  so  that  we  ride 
without  bits  or  even  saddle? 

P. — But  all  these  things  must  be  determined 
by  the  relation  which  the  mind  or  spirit  holds  to 
the  senses.  Till  that  is  settled  we  know  nothing. 
If  this  internal  somewhat  maKes  us  at  its  will, 
then  we  are  not  responsible. 

K. — We  never,  however,  hold  the  body  raspon- 
«iDic,  uo  we? 

P. — Still  I  say  that  that  knowledge  must  be 
he  corner-stone  of  all  philosophical  discussion, 
ind  till  it  is  determined  nothing  is  determined. 


128 

M. — That  is  the  corner-stone  of  the  correlation 
if  forces,   rather. 

E. — I  have  been  to-day  much  interested  in  the 
llustrations  of  the  Hegelian  philosophy.  What 
.vould  that  say  to  the  question  of  how  the  mind 
iffects  the  body  ? 

D. — Mind  is  limited  by  matter,  but  matter  is 
tgaiu  limited  by  mind.  Mind  expresses  itself 
n  matter,  and  matter  again  expresses  itself  in 
uind;  so  mind  is  simply  reflected  through  mat- 
ter into  itself,  returns  into  itself,  and  gives  us  self- 
relation. 

M. — As  to  the  correlation  of  forces,  the  whole 
theory  moves  in  a  circle,  and  so  all  forces  go 
lown  together.  They  start  out,  one  force,  as  heat, 
correlating  another,  as  electricity,  and  that  anoth- 
er, and  so  on.  We  must  have  a  complete  circle 
of  correlating  forces  if  we  begin.  For  a  force  is 
the  restoration  of  equilibrium,  and  correlation  of 
forces  says  the  restoration  of  one  equilbrium  de- 
stroys another  equal  to  it;  hence,  before  there 
was  any  movement  there  was  already  ancquipo«e 
of  equilibriums,  and  how  was  movement  possible  ' 

D. — A  clearer  illustration  of  my  meaning  may 
perhaps  be  this :  The  forty-seventh  proposition 
of  Euclid  waa  true  from  all  eternity.  But  when 
the  discoverer  expressed  it,  then  first  it  came  to 
consciousness.  So  we  have  mind  here,  expres- 
sing itself  in  form,  and  form  translating  itself  into 
self-consciousness.  So  we  have  thought  standing 
between  mind  and  mind,  as  the  written  letter  of 
the  proposition  stands  as  mediator,  as  it  were, 
between  the  thought  which  came  before  and  the 
thought  which  came  after. 

M. — Mind  aaaimilatea  the  object  in  knowing.it, 
bat  the  object  mutt  be  a  product  of  mind.. earn 
could  not  assimilate  it. 

T. — We  are  by  the  company  of  that  innermost 
other  dissolved  to  universal  mina,  brought  back 
to  Baity,  or  oae  —a.  There  it  no  dualism  of 
mind  and  matter.  Hatter  it  one  with  eaind.  It 
it  tlia  huter  of  the  spirit-  Only  at  we  think  Euclid 
doet  it  ceate  to  ha  form  and  teoosne  thought 
again.  In  recognizing  truth  we  are  one  with  * 
in  essential  subatance,  though  divided  in  space 
and  time.  The  universe  it  one  and  not  two,  and 
here  all  difficulty  vanishes. 

E. — More  ideally,  I  tay.  Here  are  my telf  and 
the  abyss.  Of  those  two  things  I  am  conscious. 
I  do  not  ignore  what  we  call  the  sense*.  I  have 
no  power  to  ascertain  the  correctnets  of  their  re- 
port, and  hence  I  rely  rather  on  the  immediate  m> 
terancet  of  the  tool.  I  look  upon  (die  tout  as  en- 
larging itself  into  the  largeness  of  God.  I  do  not 
solve  the  question  of  matter  and  spirit. 

M. — Mind  hat  two  kinds  of  objects  to  dis^olvtK 
the  objects  of  nature  and  other  objects ;  the  prod  uefa 
of  spirit,  at  religions,  philosophy,  Ac.  We  should 
mark  the  difference  between  these  two  kinds  wT 
objects  as  ist  as  they  relate  to  the  mind 't  working 
on  them.  If  we  put  man  into  a  iorest  alone,  with 
notlttwg  but  the  objects  of  nature  to  consider,  he 
becomes  a  savage.  But  set  him  to  work  on  the 
results  of  human  thought,  he  develops  eontinuuai. 
ly.  If  we  can  thoroughly  dissolve  the  thoughts  of  a 
great  Uiinker  we  are  as  strong  as  he. 

T. — But  should  not  a  greater  victory  be  claimed 

lor  the  first  discoverer* 
M.— Undoubtedly;  but  no  greater  culture  re- 


2  * 
fc    to 


5   8 


=5"  5 


_    rt  ■- 

=    ■=    Jm 

1  e    «   = 


g   tt  «, 


*5 


A 


a   s> 

x     t 

E   3   b  a 

*  o   §*-a 

*  o  ~    5 
V    *  ■S.j- 


•5  -a 


fill 

Sit  e 
►  las 

*  S  t  -.. 
B  e  »  — 
'^•a  "  g 
•a    *  .5    a 

a  i  = 
I  s  a « 

s  .-  ji  fe 


a   — 

a  §  a 

~    •  3 

O    -3     « 

"     C     < 

"O   3   e 

3   v  '" 
cj    «-   e 

t  is  = 

*  .r  = 

U.  „   S5 

•if  i 

p  J: 


s  5 


a  = 

< £ 

o    w  = 

•-  9 

s  o  a 

w  3  i! 

o    s  — 


3        * 


tt)  JZ  „    ^    o 

-  2*  I  % 


a  a 


«r  e 


FA       CD 


2  A    * 


«     C 


^H   c 


H>,  =K  B> 


dency  wo  sec  in  this  age,  which  it  an  epoch  in 
eTery  respect. 

,Y. — \That  do  we  say  of  attention* 
if.— The  idiot  has  no  power  of  attention.  The 
ijiage  of  a  bee  flying  before  him  is  seen,  but  is  as 
anfckly  effaced  by  the  image  of  the  butterfly 
ttnsBk  comes  next.  Now  in  attention  the  will 
conftJs  lu  with:  "Stop,  ye  senses!  I  am  master 
here,  and  you  shall  stay  your  course  and  consider 
this  or  that." 

X — In  support  of  this  it  is  said  that  the  first 
step  in  teaching*  idiots  is  to  get  their  attention 
fixed  for  an  instant  on  anything.  When  that  is 
accomplished  the  work  is  half  done. 

P. — Hut  arc  we  not  on  dangerous  ground  here? 
Shall  we  not  be  led  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
mind  is  passive,  and  that  the  senses  create  mat- 
ter? 

M. — I  had  thought  that  this  matter  of  attention 
and  names  would  be  dangerous  to  the  spiritual 
theory,  but  I  found  on  reflection  that  it  is  not ; 
but  that  the  phenomenon  of  attention  and  the  fix- 
ing an  object  by  a  name  are  really  self-determin- 
ation, though  in  its  lowest  form. 

7\— But  what  is  attention?  What  are  names ! 
The  old  nominalists  said  that  generic  names 
were  only  names  standing  for  no  real  object.  If 
this  is  true,  how  came  I  to  name  anything? 

M. — Attention  came  first  and  fixed  the  thing, 
or  we  could  not  h*ve  generalized  it,  and  so  named 
it.  In  so  doing,  However,  we  free  ourselves  from 
particulars  ann  rise  to  a  self-determined. 

T.— What  is  the  oeanng^^tiiis  on  the  relation 
afefilt  advancement  in  sciengp ,  to  pnenc  p°wPU 
Ifcftoetry  slain  by  science  or  does  it  out  on  imwter 
power? 

E. — This  was  a  quarrel  for  a  long  time.  Sci- 
ence is  slow,  mind  is  swifter.  Science  holds  to 
the  literal  and  sensuous  truth,  and  so  mind  quar- 
rels with  it.  Hut  in  the  end  poetry  always  gains. 
For  we  come,  in  the  end,  to  see  the  beauty  infold- 
ed in  the  laws,  and  to  tarn  every  fact  into  a  hu- 
man fart  is  the  office  of  poetry. 

T.— In  arriving  at  science  wTs  devitalize  the 
universe.  Toetry  revitalizes  it ;  and  so  when  we 
have  the  real  and  final  solution  we  shall  have  it 
in  the  poetic  form. 

A'.— Shall  we  not  rather  vy  in  a  philosophic 
form?  for  philosophy  is  poetry.  a.  e. 

St.  Louis,  Mo.,  March  20,  1H07. 

The  Frw  Concr*«r*U*a«l  Soelstr. 

a  nromioant  feature  of  Florence  la  the  Fres 
Congregational  society,  »nicn  naa  prooaoiy  gitr- 
the  place  quite  aa  much  notoriety  as  aoy  of  Its 
hnalofws  intnrmiU  This  Socfatr.  aa  Mr  Bill 
nays,  is  U>«  offspring  of  tne  industrial  Associa- 
tion :  ustrw,  many  of  its  active  members  were 
eiiner  psrtlelpsnts  In,  or  sympathisers  with,  that 
oreatrlsstlon,  snd  hsd  not  that  association  lived, 
Jills  society  would  not  bare  been  favored.  It 
arss  not  organised  until  May  8d,  1888,  hut  Its 
memoersn*M  held  occasional  meetings  irom  the 
time  oTtsn  brSBkinor  no  of  the  Community  Asso- 
ciation tu  ISMTTsough  no  regular  preacher  bad 
been  employed.  The  Society's  platform,  «w  ar- 
tides  of  agreement,  the  signers  of  whtch  consti- 
tutes a  person  s  member,  arc  ss  follows:— 

"  We,  the  undersigned,  Inhabitant*  of  Florence, 
and  Its  vicinity  In  the  town  of  Northampton, 
wishing  to  avail  ourselves  of  the  advantages  or 


129 

associate  effort  for  our  sdvsncemenf  16  troth  and 
Koodness,  snd  for  the  promotion  of  gvasral  in- 
telligence, good  morals  snd  libers!  religious  sen- 
timents, do  hereby  agree  to  form  ourselves  Intos 
body  corporate,  under  the  name  of  the  Fass 
Congregational  Socibtt  or  Florskck. 

"  Respecting  In  each  other  snd  in  sll  the  right 
of  Intellect  snd  conscience  to  be  free,  snd  holding 
it  to  be  the  duty  of  every  one  to  keep  hit  mind 
and  heart  at  all  timeatwen  to  receive  the  truth 
and  follow  Its  guiasptBsaare  set  up  no  theological 
condition  of  rntunbsntjtip  and  neither  demand 
nor  expect  uniformity  or  doctrinal  belief^  asking 
only  unity  of  purpose  to  seek  snd  accept  the 
right  and  true,  and  an  honest  aim  snd  effort  to 
make  these  the  rule  of  life.  And,  recognizing 
the  brotherhood  of  the  human  rac«  and  the 
equality  of  human  rights,  we  make  no  distinc- 
tion as  to  the  conditions  snd  rights  ol  member- 
ship in  this  Society,  on  scoouutof  sex,  or  color, 
or  nationality." 

It  is  claimed  for  this  Society  that  it  waa  "the 
flrat  religions  association  of  Florence,  snd  prob- 
ably the  first  religious  body  era-organized  in  the 
United  States  on  the  basis  of  the  American  idea 
ol  perfect  freedom  of  thought  and  speech." 

The  Society  at  its  organization  consisted  of  86 
members;  it  now  has  131,  showing  s  vigorous 
growth.  It  enjoys  the  advantages  of  what  la 
termed  "an  Itinerant  with  a  tettled  minister." 
Charles  C.  Burleigh  it  the  settled  minister,  who 
occupies  the  desk  one-half  the  time,  while  the 
other  half  tsjdren  to  speakers  from  abroad.  In 
this  wsy,  s^psai  rtriety  of  talent  has  been  se- 
cured, the  speakers  embracing  many  persons  of 
note,  snd  of  various  religious  denominations. 
Indeed,  this  hss  been  one  of  the  most  popular 
features  of  the  Society.  Among  the  speakers 
who  have  addressed  this  Society  sre  Ralph  Wsl- 
do  Emerson,  Charles  E.  Norton,  (editor  of  the 
North  AmericsD  Jtevieio,)  W«f-  Moyd  Osrrison, 
Samuel  »  '•nvriellow,  (brother  of  the  poet,)  Henry 
James  of  o^Aton,  Prof.  Wo.  Denton,  (the  geolo- 
gist,) Theodore  D.  Weld,  Dr.  Dlo  Lewis,  Freder- 
ick Douglaas,  Parker  Plllsbury,  A.  Bronson  Al- 
cott,  sud  Edward  C.  Towne.  <5f  local  speakers, 
there  have  been  Rev.  Erastut  Hopkins,  Congre- 
gational, Rev.  Wm.  L.  Jenkins,  Unitarian,  and 
Rev.  Ira  D.  Clark,  Baptist,  of  Northampton,  and 
Rev.  John  F.  Moors  oLOreenfleld,  Unitarian. 
Woman  has  not  been  exciuaeo.  from  the  desk,  snd 
Frances  D.  Gage,  Antoinette  Brown  Black  well, 
and  Mrs.  Caroline  Dsfrass,  have  each  spoken  "1» 
this  congregation.  Among  the  speakers  who 
have  expressed  their  wllllnroess  to  sddress  this 
Society,  sre  Rev.  Dr.  Zachsry  Eddy,  late  psator 
of  the  First  Church  in  Nortbsmpton,  snd  Miss 
Anns  E.  Dickinson,  the  popular  lecturer. 

The  Society  hss  sn  sddress  or  sermon  only  on 
Sunday  afternoon.  The  lorenoon  of  each  Sab- 
bath Is  devoted  to  the  Sabbath  School,  which 
numbers  about  80  scholars,  under  the  superin- 
tendence of  E.  C.  Gardner.  In  addition,  there 
is  a  class  of  30  to  25  sdulU,  under  the  lesden-hlp 
ol  Mr.  Burleigh,  which  usually  takes  up  tome 
topic  for  discussion  esch  Sunday.  The  funds  of 
the  Society  are  raised  by  subscription.  The  sala- 
ry paid  Mr.  Burleigh  is  $600  per  year.  Tho  au- 
diences vary  from  100  to  500.  Usually  the  ball 
has  been  well  filled,  and  sometimes  there  has  not 
been  sufficient  room  to  accommodate  the  throng. 
The  meetings  are  held  In  the  hall  in  the  school- 
house  building,  designed  expressly  for  the  sc- 
cotnmodutlou  of  this  Society,  and  deeded  to  it 
by  Mr.  Hill  for  the  space  of  ten  years,  or  longer, 
if  the  building  should  not  be  wanted  for  school 
purposes. 

Mr.  Burleigh  Is  a  man  of  fine  abilities,  a  close 
rcusoncr,  and  an  eloquent  speaker.  He  studied  In 
Philadelphia    for  the  legal   profession,  but   be- 


te -r  * 

X     - 

S    M 


1>    3   O 


till 

S  o  5-s 


v  a 

e  c 


o  5 
S  c 


Ce-  — *  3  a  -^  ,~  —  —-  .a  a  —  —  — 
SVeeC'3:iS         ;    ,T    --T    m 

£  -5  :-,-2  "  =  S  o  a  £  h  |  \  *  - 
tr-h/joj-.-u  —  "S.s  '  i  -  3 
s  « ,=  s—  a  u  =  S'V-'  C-r-5. 

frf-H-a.^i^r  =^r- 
SSi-!i-5-J    =>  =  a.© 

1"J III  a  111JJI-l=st 


^rs-i.i 


:  i  -  i 

?     S«     T     ~ 


>—>■-  5  ~  _, 


si 


2  ©  «  ^  m  v  *^ 

■S-S  e'£P3 

a  %  a  3  §•  ®  &  £-^  ■  ? 

1  fi  113  2  *  .  c  v~:  ~ 


y^fJT 


•»  a  °  v;  ^  "o  *• 

3  =  =  a  g  i  1 1 

;  ^  ir       a.       tc 

i  a  e  j=   *     -  ™ 

■  a-  *  s  c  S  o 

:  c  §  *  ».S  5 

'    1    a    «         ?    v. 

>  j=  ^  i  S  —  £ 
i  u  0  2  - 

x   =•        5    o 
9   *  S  *-   «  S 
:  S  2         °    e  t 
'•a  g  J-§2  S. 


*-    >   JZ   3     o 


—  *-  *a    ™    c*   ♦- 


c    ft 


or.  ,_ 

„     3 


r  -a 


a    a   -S 
38     3     Q. 


—        r   y 


_    a  xi 

a   -3   —    v 


a  —    oj    3    S    a 

—   a  a  2-  - 


a  2 

'5 


e    a   *>  a  - 

J3    _            ♦.  *-  IP 

-  V  -o  ^  "  % 

c     if-     "' 

v    P    P    a  £  T3 

a    if  e    5  "  S 

£  §  "  ^  **  t 

^    -    a    a  "  - 

E    <    aC  <  i! 


w 

> 

b 

73 
39 

M 

33 

c 

3 

>l 

.X 

> 

_-3 

£ 

3 

o 
"3 

■3 

3J 

3 
Ism 

s 

"J 

9 

* 

a 

e 

L. 

3 
,3 

J3 

O 

TO 

a 

a 
a 

-3 

33 

-a 

6 

-a 

E 

c 

3d 
0 

3 

0 

O 

if- 

ft 

■3 

5 

8 

T9 

a 

a 

00 

33 

5 

f 

\ 

o 

CJ 

9 

c 

V 

s 

MS 

13 

5 

T 

| 

K 

~ 

— 

5 

~~ 

u 

i 

V 

33 

0 

T 

r3 

C 

ft 

■B 

z 

3 

A.  Bhonso.v  ALCOTT.— Alcott  it  probably  more  ol  a 
thinker  (ban  Emerson ;  lie  certainly  lia»  given  more 
time  aod  pains  to  pure  Utilising;  ami  for  this  lie  i»  in  a 
measure  acknowledged  as  matter  by  Ins  liiend  uoil 
neighbor.  1'ertiapa  no  man  tu  America  has  meditated 
as  mucb  a*  Mr.  Alcott  has,  or  laid  up  bo  great  a  sioiu 
of  due  thoughts.  He  la  au  encjolopedia  ol  mystical 
specululioii.  ami  not  ol  this  ouly,  butol  Hie  upplicatiou 
of  speculation  in  the  criuciam  of  men  and  aOairs.  Id 
the  performance  ol  the  socralic  olllceoi  attending  upon 
the  birth  ol  thought  iu  oilier  men's  minds,  he  is  most 
himself.  Ills  conversation,  in  bis  happier  uiouieuts,  is 
a  rich  stream  ol  stimulating  suggesuuu.  Consult  bim 
upon  any  topic  ol  life  or  thought,  or  ask  bint  to  read  se- 
lect passages  from  his  Journal,  and  you  Hod  yourself 
in  a  roioc  ol  all  precious  things;  if  you  do  not  go  away 
•nriohed  it  will  be  your  own  laull.  There  It,  perhaps, 
with  him  a  deficiency  ol  common  taleut,  whicn  makes 
his  genius  less  available  tbau  it  otherwise  would  be. 
In  an  age  of  greater  toleration  and  liner  reverence  this 
would  have  beeu  ofsmull  account.  If  for  thirty  years 
past  Alcoll'a  watcb-towor  of  contemplation  had  been 
in  llarvaid  University,  as  it  should  have  been,  youths 
ardent  tor  knowledge  would  have  climbed  up  to  the 
kindly  sage,  and  scanned  through  his  heaveu-scai  ch 
lug  thought  many  au  abyss  ol  the  inlluite  unknown 
through  which  our  little  world  of  existence  rolls.  No 
man  bet  bad  oner  gilts  as  aa  intellectual  counselor  of 
Inquiring  minds ;  uo  man  has  accumulated  larger  stores 
of  wisdom.  In  some  respects  there  has,  perhaps 
Beyer  beeu  au    enthusiast    so    remarkable;    I     icier 

Eirticularly  to  the  marvelous  serenity  wnh  wbich 
is  most  gentle  soul  has  kept  the  even  tenor  of 
hit  way  through  a  world  never  good  to  ciiu.  I.ue 
without,  baa  been  unceasing  disappointment,  but 
within,  It  has  been  unending  success.  The  high 
and  glad  repose  of  sueh  a  nature  may  rank  with  tue 
miracles  of  character  in  all  bumaa  history.  Cootie- 
aeae  so  genial  and  so  steadfast,  so  generous  and  so  en- 
during, Is  the  last  grace  ami  the  most  divine  wbioh 
culture  brings.  Of  all  men  in  America,  when  the  drst 
news  oame  of  John  Brown  at  Harper's  Kerry,  Alcott 
took  it  quietly,  and  said  upon  the  instant,  with  tbe 
serene  content  of  prophecy ,  that  the  gallows  now 
would  be  glorified  as  the  ,oro«s.  To  him,  of  all  men, 
poverty,  denia.  and  couturueiy  haw*  been  nothing  al 
all.  The  light  that  never  goea  out  pv  been  his  covet- 
ing through  the  wilderness,  although  Cambridge  baa 
Even  him  no  refuge,  and  the  wertd  baa  not  known 
m.  The  phase  ot  religious  reeling  which  baa  exclud- 
ed sueh  a  man  Irom  his  proper  place  ol  influence  upon 
the  beat  joung  minda  la  a  re  ho  of  gross  barbarism. 


ma/ 


TRAVKLIM,    EAST. 


Correspondence  of  (he  Republican. 

Huston,  July  31,  l&SH. 
Lmst  week  we  went  out  to  Concord  to  pay  a 
vinit  to  Mr.  Alcott,  well  known  to  a  number 
of  your  render*  from  the  conversational  lec- 
tures be  held"  in  St  Louis  during  the  winteri 
of  l»r»  and  I8H0";  and  to  many  others  known  as 
a  mystic  writer  on  religious  matterN,  and  a 
practical  reformer  in  matters  of  education. 
(His  liook,  "Conversations  with  Children," 
is  just  uudcrgoing  a  new  edition,  I  believe.) 
Mr.  Alcott  lives  at  tbe  east  end  of  tbe  village, 
not  far  from  Mr.  Emerson's  residence,  and 
just  opposite  the  famous  Wfelden  noud.  The 
strange  mixture  of  practical  man  and  dreamer, 
wliii  11  c:.,nstitul«s  Mi.  Aluott's  great  personal 
charm,  in  bust  illustrated  when  I  mention  that 
the  fence  which  surrounds  bis  garden,  and 
v.  nifh  is  worked  in  n  rustic  manner  out  of  pe- 
culiarly knotty  wood;  tbe  arbors  an  I  seats 
which  are  in  the  garden,  and  wbich  are  worked 
in  the  same  curious  manner,  nay  almost  the 
whole  comfortable  house  wherein  be  lives,  are 
the  works  of  his  own  uuussistod  hands;  and 
that  in  this  house  bo  has  one  of  the  strangest 
libraries — though  a  small  one — you  could  pos- 
sibly meet,  rare  mystic  books,  quaint  and  curi- 
ous volumes  of  fbrarotten  lore.  He  if  iost 
now  reviling  tbe  last  proof  ■Tuns*,  saf  ,  email 
work,  'TabttU,"  which  Roberts  rirotheawj 
of  Boston,  will  publish  this  fall,  and  the  ap- 
pearanco  01  which  will  ne  donbt  be  heartily 
welcomed  by  Mr.  Aloott's  8t.  Louis  tasnmuU. 
To  them  it  may  be,  moreover,  pleasant  ffsjjTgjn 
that  Mr.   Alcott  will   probablv  visit  8t7"L*mis 


130 

again  this  fall  and  remain  a  abort  time- 

Passing  through  half  a  mile  of  bettartifal 
wood*  from  Mr.  Aieoit'e  house,  yen  arrive  at 
the  YVTXkUa  poad,  snaaous.es  hev-n#  been  tbe 
resMeoeo  ef  Mr.  Tnsrsae  it  m  a  pretty  II  ttie 
lake,  evrounded  by  wooded  bills,  all  tbe 
grounds  immediately  hrouud  the  poud  are 
Ajwued  by  Mr.  Emerson,  with  tbe  exception  of 
"■■man  corner,  which  be  neglected  to  purchase 
■aTsTawme.  and  which  the  Fitchburg  Railroad 
marened  to  bay,  in  order  to  fit  it  up  for  a 
picnic  place.  In  this  manner  tbe  whole  .lake 
or  poud  has  become  aoeeasi  Me  t«  visitors ^afJiw 
lying  on  shore  to  take  you  all  over  it 

1  he  village  of  Concord  is  <a  pretty,  quiet 
place,  a  tine  spot  for  quiet  meditation,  ami 
made  evor  beautiful  by  those  magnificent 
trees,  wblob  nlve  to  every  little  psao*  about 
Boston  so  deHgaiM  an  appearance.  The 
rustling  of  trees  is  indeed  the  ebief  noise  in 
these  New  England  vlllaaes:  men  and  women 
nppcariht  to  move  about  in  them  la  a  suMued 
W>±*+*  o*  children  sea  tames  roe** Mini 
-  -1  trsns   —I  in  sky*  pretty  w^aaaw 


Tbjp  residence  of  A.  Brraneon   Alcott,  nt  Con- 
caroYMnss.,  is  just  such  atTOId  honsc  11s  ho  de- 
scribes in  his  laet  geulal  boos;  calhtd  "  Tablets. 
It  stands  under  the  liill-eido,  on  tho  Lexington 
road,  a  jnuo  east  of  the   station,    environed   iu 
orcharas,  with  a  pino  wood  on  tho  hill-top   be- 
hind it,  nnd   groat   fields  in    front ;  a   brown 
wooden  bouse  with  many  gables  nnd  porches, 
and  a  huge  stack  of  chimneys  rining  in  l»°  11U''' 
die,  such  as  they     used  to   build  a    hundred 
years  ago.     In  its  present   form   the  house  i» 
tbe  work   of  Mr.    Alcott,   nnd   is  one  of  tn0 
most  plcturesquo  in  the   town.      Here  he  ^ 
ceives  his  frienas,  among"  whom  ho  now   rerk 
ons  tboso  scholars  arjd  metaphysicians  of  Bt. 
Louis  whose  organ  is   the   Journal  of  Spicuui- 
live  Philotophy.     Its  editor,  W.  T.  Harris,  and 
throo  of  its   chief  contributors,   Mr.   Krocg<;r, 
Miss  Bracken  and*  Mr.    Davidson,   all   of  ►»■ 
Louis,  havolately  bewattae  sraests  of  Mr.  Alcott, 
wfcose  house  bae  beearttie  saactuary  of  ins»J 
sncli  pilgrims. 


MARCHING  TO  DIFFERENT1 
DRUMMERS : 


3>  a  -* 


b  a  a 


-ft  -ft 


O 

-ft 

c 

a 

-ft 


-s: 

hs 


o 
o 


American  Transcendental  Quarterly 
journal  of  new  england  writers 

DRAWER    1080 
HARTFORD.    CONNECTICUT     06101 

£k  1      Q       SUPPLEMENT      PART   TWO 

WINTER 
1972 

<(*» 


DEATH 


AND     BEYOND 


IN   THE 


AMERICAN  RENAISSANCE 


Bv  KENNETH  WALTER  CAMERON 


In  recommending  the  foregoing  title  as  a  symposium  topic,  we  remind  our 
readers  that  death  came  close  to  the  American  people  in  the  periods  preceding  and 
following  the  American  Renaissance — in  the  American  Revolution  and  War  of  1812, 
at  the  beginning,  and  in  the  Civil  War,  at  the  end — and  left  its  mark  on  our  an- 
nals, if  not  too  prominently  in  our  literature.   The  "four  horsemen  of  the  Apoca- 
lypse," however,  have  never  been  without  witnesses  in  world  literature  and  in  the 
fine  arts  of  Europe.   Outside  the  genre  of  tragedy,  one  recalls  Goethe's  Faust. 
Gounod's  Faust.  Mozart's  Don  Giovanni.  Wordsworth's  "Ode  on  Intimations  of  Immor- 
tality" and  the  Lucy  poems,  the  novels  of  Charles  Dickens,  Thackeray's  The  New- 
comes,  and  Jeremy  Taylor's  Holy  Living  and  Holy  Dying,  which  survived  the  seven- 
teenth century  in  many  editions.   Emerson,  for  example,  read  Holy  Dying  at  Har- 
vard in  1819-1820  and  later  owned  the  London-1820  imprint,  which  he  autographed 
in  1824.   In  1819-1820,  moreover,  he  borrowed  Jeremy  Taylor's  Discourses  on  Var- 
ious Subjects  (3  vols.,  Boston,  1816)  from  the  Boston  Library  Society,  located 
near  his  home,  and,  between  1827  and  1832,  devoted  time  to  The  Whole  Works  ( 15 
vols.,  London,  1822),  secured  from  the  Harvard  Divinity  School  collection.   Emily 
Dickinson's  lyrics  manifest  her  interest  in  the  "four  last  things."   The  theme 
of  how  to  die  well  (ars  moriendi)  was  kept  alive  in  the  Episcopal  Church,  to 
which  Emerson's  mother  remained  loyal  throughout  her  life,  using  her  Book  of  Com- 
mon Prayer  daily  during  the  long  years  of  her  widowhood  and  remoteness  from  an 
Anglican  altar.   Death  featured  prominently  in  the  "graveyard  school"  of  poetry 
and  prose,  which,  for  various  reasons,  Bryant,  Poe ,  and  Arthur  Cleveland  Coxe 
revived.   (See  the  title  page  of  Coxe ' s  Christian  Ballads  illustrated  below.) 
Horrible  death  is  the  subject  of  some  American  gothicism,  on  which  we  have  a 
growing  bibliography.   The  following  pages  reproduce  a  medieval  picture  book  of 
1450,  intended  to  stimulate  our  readers  by  reminding  them  that  whether  they  ap- 
proach Jordan  like  Bunyan  on  foot  or  take  passage  in  the  Celestial  Railroad,  if 
they  expect  to  encounter  the  "outer  mystery,"  they  must  wet  their  feet  at  last. 


C?l  S   f 


§5 


£  -^ 


3  J* 


* 

£0 

< 

it 

£ 

*"c3 

p 

23 

V5 

<j 

H 

fc 

o 

© 

p4 

o 
-o 

pa 
o 

< 

pq 

© 
© 

f3 

tH 

P-< 

fH 

CM 

^s 

CO 

£ 

©• 

«rj 

>H 

W 

«* 

o 

W 

£■ 

fc 

fc 

'■2 

fc 

o 

w 

H 

W 

h4 

P-. 

PH 

OCJ 

«r1 

THE 

ARS    MORIENDI 

(EDITIO   PRINCEPS,  circa    1450). 

A   Reproduction    of  tlie    Copy    in    the 
BRITISH    MUSEUM. 

The  Introduction  urges  making  an  adequate  preparation 

for  death 4-5 

The  Devil  comes  to  the  dying  person  and  encourages  dis- 
belief in  the  Christian  Revelation 6-7 

The  Good  Angel  quickly  comes  to  the  man's  aid,  strength- 
ening his  Christian  Faith 8-9 

The  Devil  then  attacks  the  man's  Christian  Hope,  encourag- 
ing Despair 10-11 

The  Good  Angel  again  enters  the  battle  and  rekindles  Hope   .   12-13 

The  Devil  next  tempts  the  dying  one  with  impatience  under 
his  infirmities,  which  is  a  sin  against  Charity  or 
Christian  Love 14-15 

The  Good  Angel  again  routs  the  Devil  by  urging  Patience   .  .   16-17 

The  Devil  next  tempts  the  dying  man  with  Spiritual  Pride 

(Vain  Glory),  the  chief  of  the  Mortal  Sins 18-19 

The  Good  Angel  returns  to  counsel  Humility,  which  leads 
the  Devil  momentarily  to  confess  that  he  has  lost 
("Victus  sum.")  20-21 

The  Devil  next  tempts  the  dying  man  with  Avarice  or 

Cupidity 22-23 

The  Good  Angel  encourages  Liberality,  reminding  him  that 
"Blessed  are  the  poor,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of 
Heaven." 24-25 

The  sick  man  is  then  urged  to  confess  his  sins  and  receive 
absolution.   In  the  picture,  one  sees  his  soul  being  ac- 
cepted by  the  angels  from  Heaven 26-27 


t^^^^^M^MMM^^^Z%^^% 


& 


m 


jammtmibi[iama2scozpo:is(ibtmiuihQima  || 
'uuttti  taiucaamme  uuUatmus  dh  cotrtparanDa 
auguGxuo  nuiait3|ttQiuB  rft'liarapiaii  vx  aituQia^ 
uetnuus  amine  op  raille  cvzpmi  trite  eriatu%mari)o  quL 
biafrlEotus  lfenuuidus  atourns  onmic  jecou  dhmatt 
nouBotrib  jltas  050  arame  tntttD  riF  Ijombilio*  aim 
uefcuabdutt  qpfo  auiuia  onposr  c(b  uobtho*  ate  yxmwk 
Eumerso  atmtiatautr^aofitatio  cnttafr  ct  ujmboliis 
p2omoiteip(iiis  ctamtjounue  m^ptrtiuaittfinuitate 
tn^nitstauutatiouibus  infctoblOeo  fumencfriTart^ 
umcftjutf  Ijomo  araraeEie^uiDmbtinuotfe  illaiAa/ 
tmM  q3  mayirae  i^nfcetiscfriifc  qiiifiber  arfim 
bmetoozienfti  oe  quaeftyms  ratcoao  ftequmter^r  oaif 
Ua  habcati  ob#  c^rtteraa  itifotuitHtf raeutrfiiairuotuatf 
qiaaub  atb  0zrgonusn3>al5c  fc  folhatefc  mbono  0£r 
qiufoup  cogit^iealrciuofuie^amlifirtumtnalum 
|^nCi0crrtia%faaliu8  tolkran^attttfl  u#atUut>. 
jTuturafijurfaautar  laitustoUamthur^wraiinime 
'abqinsfcafc  moztruitnTpouib  trmpdhnf  eo  y  qmhbrt! 
biunufc  feijictuiu  c?i(lntu±  udjcp  atilens  fr  fata  cthnuQ^ 
ntura.qft  mfhnctu  figabob  fart  irrtiirf^Btaphiresj) 
talnmanetn  fyan  thpos  ttatlrjraiwti  tnJ((pofitinummtc8 
tfberginiullatraus  mbnno  Srtur  faesimma  cozpabsfaiuta^ 
tiscmifejuetifte  JTiatn  Gxury&u  cancidiarui^atiOmlruifEpt^ 
-talemfeftam  roublaaour  tffictam  fenttah^cmi&Dmaauv 
rrrtamuicutiTtf  botno  barapttaturae.afutr  otiua  ft^roMca^ 
fur  mo2maai8a0  toque  uraa^  % 

pimwutfcre&at'fiaibbmt^  Irtus     ^ 

tywmy  mede^ictrecdc&e  numetwnnutatc  etfobeflieaaa*    4 


1 


v. 


uikbfltoJOraaitt^^  miaidareafiffl* 

^jmttEttuiqp  ampUiis^cccm^©uarto  titftubulgratr 
Cius  ofi&tltoilnis^ptQT  tiaira  ft  trotifa^rtafrabhtjaquos 
ipfc  ofimtofl  l&ujmo  ufr  ablatatdhtuatul^to  ro  qgpoO* 
rat  ^ofcmoAuidlf  j^i  cfetp  ahtar  faluaatumpoteffi 
m&j  nimtupaOfanns^iliequD  Bgafr  Deograoasmqiitii 

tnero  faluarifi^iD  embe  fluawfc  uuht^tur  ablidrttul3liiia 
fatrrnnfittoai  cod&crt^imo  ufr-jmram  coixtnaonemni' 
fc^atttfanatl  cmif^fie«fiUaeciaiu  cdie&trauiEtailCiiotc 
rmpten&o  0iuuqi^n)erpl>epuitfD0abauD  utfmfljgrfus 
imfianatu*  no  6ut»  ftmut  intertttgrtf  am&Jecaiflri i&Qfi 

m&y&f&ouivpi  raiurttafc  ♦  cantiuue  eararetuuLanfto 
atiR  itirihfaiiftD  .nam  /per  tyot  ouuies  tauptaooties 
DjjahoU  eb  mfiDe  ruayime  rufiantarC\9uDc  notatt  ^ 
^um^titanfetu^^mo^qabcu^iEmptHtiotiis 
ipaminiifltiijmus  ^aba£nint,lBifuiit  qimuOTtipolr' 
feapatebttf  Cotttiu  quas  aunprtus  Cuagmb  asqum^ 
q*  b  ouas  infotratiouca .  J§  eb  itb  omuibus  tfta  uiatma 
fifffindunla  eti  ttufliis  au  tpfius  Cpcculatumc  tedu&an/ 
tur  Dii  ttiDcmoa  Cahitettrr  mfrafc  tmnlutefatttuiri 
frato  fleTrnttrahbtis  cp  jnuagunbus  lairorfr  litterato 
(xiiualJermimtiibusniiiicteuiuoQilia  obiaturjljiuc 

trno  frmntuo  ofcdpcm&ctites  babatti  &  tamg>  fyetuium 

'foeailaututn 
ibustolugti^ 


i 

1 


z. 


1 

I 


^r^^ffiS  ^y^  [IHiEffi 


Hilt  a1 


{•M.iht >;  ,,i,i>h .JiihuV/tru*;.^:. 


W  quo  fites  tffctflcius  falut^futibaitiettatm  erlraeca 
J  unlit  amituto  jJOtrffr  rift  fal9  trttr  aujjuOrao  qui  aitt 
^Qlj/Tdes  rib  bonoaim  onmuuti  fimbamntftnn  rti  tju*f 
nian^iiiluttsmicuim^bfiiiatilo  biomic^csrfbtyu^ 
tnaur  fftlutts  tm'rtum  ftuchanrnuo  ab  fitumunto  mmiC' 
turn  iiofetfc  nhnnr  fine  tjacoturusloboz  tjorauns  rlcf 
-tjacuusnjdro  bpabotus  tobus  ljumanc  jgtus  lumurusto^ 
te  wibus  b  omiue  in  ratttraa  ntfirmuattab  dla  ttrtau/ 
itr  aucrtrtx  uttthmTjafalim  ab  bcuiaiibu  m  eaiput 
mbucrtr  labteatr  bimi$/tu  unfit?  m  inaguo  ftas  mw. 
non  eft  Haiti  nrDis^d  Oait^cbicatm^tfrrntis  fractuS 
cfr.qtirtTmib  fjomo  agat  Urrfr  ahquraruel  fapm  ocabaft 
tummfoixtTia  yiSa  ftcufc  abqui  mmxtt  TJctpoola  abo^tl 
*uti  r^yagauo^  ptryliutsiiagntitituuutb  nomtem 
nneuitbrin  cfr  quia  uulliis  raialttur  famtsiiiniumtk< 
tttu  it  or  fibe$  tua  uidjii  rftr,  M\p  cb  Huulibus  bpabo  * 
lus  trn^mur  labosab  ttt^  homiiimiuicrfn?mis  orjmttm 
afifip  auertati  mna  bme  uib^ifiudanimtuiaruat1* 
omnia  fopmbiticata  uccrHkno  tumtf . 
Jbrcuubuut  taaiai  q>  bpabotus  mmillafemjjtehone 
btmunrm  cognrpiiotcOi  net  mam  ahquo  iuodo:ffccuaI#e 
ut  QbiamCbnaafe  tp  btuTJuiniratiDats  fyabumbmlt 
fpoutr^oluaiti  txxoutmhir.qutob  catc  fii^  oumiam^ 
umbrnnrffrri^ubc  apotblne.fiddis  flnu>  qtutumjja^ 
ftfturtios  temfrtart  (ujj  ib  qtf^otrftis  (Hifaarftamt 
ianptanmie^pmie^^  tuftiucrr* 


.- ^ 


f^^^MMMMMMZMMMffi 


'£ 


^ 


s? 


a^oiia  infpiraao  attgrti  befibe 
teutropiuuamtraiptacimwu  ty>abalibatf  atisriueboua 
^pfuiraiiOttauDirctio/9  bomo  uecrobae  pdhfeia  tugo#> 
timubuslipaboli  cuuupfe  tttf  mmba^^am  menaentio  jnotfjopa, 
renteabecepttf  ncraliquo  mobo  uifide  tiubitee  tofaifuYmmttr 
lectu  ompzetjetrtiere  tum\jaleaa  quta  ficompiebmberejioflea 
nuUatemia  edfctf  uimtoiia  tu#a  illnd  5ragoajijiDe&  nontjabrt/ 


merttu  oil  humauo  ratio  inebetf  ^gnuiattuuifpeb  manendi 
uerbafauctmum  jatruui  falurti  faiutiyauli  ab  heOtto&jrfUnaittia 
J^iuefibe  impoffibde  rib  placerebeo  4&  jotjanm*  tercto  Mm 
uouccebttr  mm  tubicotua  e(V^%baniarDtt)t(Fnti8#iDc^  M 
jminogeuita  uittr^irmtiB^itmi^mtuu  fuii/uiana^em 
pieiibofiban^pi  q>  auqrui  fpufDjiifiDecamamfibeiu  anhquo* 
rmufitielm.ab:at)aiu  pfaacetftacob  ittqnrudauigamUufnli- 
at  iqb  ruab  meretna8  ttf  fnmliu  GuuUter  fibeiu  apoftolomm  nor 
uon  imutabiliu  martirtuu  confeffiteum  atq;  inrs;uuTlF)ami) 
fibrtu  mimes  auttqui  rtt  ntobenti^lacumintf.prrfibctii  Tan? 
tusjictruafujj  aquas  autbulauitt§aurruajol)anuCB,urticnu 
Cibmmtatuui  fmruocameuto  bibitr  moutramfpy  o*atitr  algr- 
auDero-petrfibcm  abuuati  limit  »tftiibrafibea  abeo  uterito  be- 
urbute^ptcrra  tunliterbebte  rrfiQ?re  b^abolo  #firnuteir 
credeceomma  mauData  cTrtefic-quiafanctaarfefiaarare 
nou  potEft/cum  a  fpirrtu  faucta  ren;atur^«^ 
dTiota  $ctto  infirmus  fctititf  fetauptanamtrofibau  rogitetf 
/p2imo  qua  tiereflatia  tfb  fiDee  quia  fine  pa  uullua  faluan  per 
•teft^rwnbo  co  gitetfq  u  tilis  eft  qutapotcftfoumiabiccute 
bouiLiiocDumia  poQtbilia  fuutftfcbeufi  M  itcruutlDuo'b 
dlqiomtifeejJeamti&a'^ite  quiaacapietiB4ftf(ic  utfimuis 
faabttrbagra  ajmbolo  itfiftet^uaremauibouuribw 
fuuboluiufiDa  area  apnu*autaii  altaDocrbicatur^lurt^ 
efm  rcpetatitr  utf^er  Ijoc  ittftrmu*  a&fiba  amftaaaam  am 
uiefcuir  etficmoueaqui  UluD  auDireabtjoumtr  abigatituiT , 


11 


f^^^^^^^MM^MMZZMMM 


/^ujteco^vabolihebe^actotie,  r 
^Ifficuudo  opaboliiBtEittptat^omtiittiiuinmui  p  brfpaao 
^Mieai  que  rib  contra  (pan  atm  coufi&ntaaiu  quamhoino 
&ebrttl)abei?in  oeum.CLuuiau  utnrraue  bolrmbua  cruaaturT 
cotpo:e  tuc  byabolue  ftolomutmlou  fuua&totrobtambo  fibipcra 
[uayiefatim  nan  cDnfeflfautfeum  wbefoaaone  tubucaftbiceufiu 
^icQunrcrwlir  ptra  tua  quetanta  funtf  utf  uutp  \icalam  acqmrr 
yoQteityuti  buercpofltecum  caym^ftaio:  tftfmeainiquttaa 
5?ut? 'umiarn  uiemuT.Jfcrcquomabo  bamecrptatranrgrefrua 
caaiam  Drum  fuprtt  omuia  non  bilpwi  t)oiinm  bus  uurui 
urtuliflti.*tamcabme&s  q>  itaUuB^otEftf  (aluan  tufi  fefuau^ 
titr  raaubalaila  quia  busbiafc^nns  ab  uttatn  mgncbt  fcrua 
manitota-IH)  fuperbr  auarelupuriotecjuUte  iraambe  muibe 
amDiofr^with  atmiuc^edimnauiliQi  gmttmupeaalutu 
uio:tale  tj  omo  potfftfbampuanT^ufupetr  upttm  qjm  inifm^ 
lD2bieuan*impIcfti4uetaiU0tbomuuuB  p^pue  uiquattf 
mcjftrano  oieuti  ipiaurt/trQatitr^icme^ijaqmafinittna 
Qinti^teiut^mictmiifJRani  aumn  et  nou  brtntoihuia- 
butoiutuu  ctuoubctiifli  midjipohuuac^ftf  lito  jacobus 
tuc*0uium  ftueuiitocD:t>ia  mtf  Uh  qui  Que  rmttticortna 
fiut/fupec  teamroibrc  mam|*  p  lure  uoctectrbie  mlcjje 
ba'Digdatttiflrimelabomirtes  quitaumi  millatcune  fcefa^ 
lute [uapicfumpreaiib cut  outa nullum fatf anobiOMdaruo^  ^ 
it  burnua  rib  ctmtjo  nulla  fye^  falutiatibi  relmquitiur  r  % 
i&rr  tftaetr Ciuuliaiiibuaf  Ijoramem  utbdbacumein  queiiipEtf  § 
omuia  mala  tfH  \ntanba  cutu  imfetxcortiauiba  offieuDat/  que 
folauoa  faluafr  tette^nopli  rta  /Rtfmcmbtebomiai  quia  nou 
coutumpti  fuuiua^aucjuaimis  biatr  ^uurquif^  pofitua 
utpecafro  Cvbe^miaxj^abefcaumPiulCmcD^tQmnuib^ 
.pcrtm  rodjil  aiiuiCcbeuiu  offifubtC^O^acio 


1 


§ 


\L 


c> 


> 


J 


13 


13 


\\ 


iramp'^ 


0_  ooa  TQjttatu)  anijli  coutra  Oe&atiouF 
iDatafift^  ftotr  mtgfa  b  oua  IftnranouF 

Dueuao  tjuuiD(}umr  fldjiaaluiteurtofc ^^latrocttuauurtact 
ijoauafcia yeftaffes  qiiot  Bmtr  loans  gutted;  amie.ena&fcl^ 
roaus  uuuifctpcra  pwiGQ&iaam&to  eUDmim^muiape^ 
uiimaa  gnfl&uff  m  coitftflii8  fiuQfeaiccectaui  roooo  ab  orar 
toi&umtacuUaiE  Ijabaxs  uidiilomiuua  ftdfoareno  tors, 
quiartah  rata  fiiffiat  folarautnao  Ifera^jr^pljjflbicoirtft 
tutf  JiuuihaluOfuBua  ftdpuuait  r^idaitf^iuwffi^^ 
rapomrgfaiuaifc  takuaattflbuOeiDmia^iiSftitfriaioi 
eShlQjpi&w  $ qm  Ii()uitae4&aiur!^uu84^u8pa^ 
lima  tmfitxrt  ^hoiuyictfare^urafii  ccta  quo  ftbi  conflttrrtf 
jp  if  mmiito  Dflfi^uatou  rtfes  uqquaaii^id^ait^ee 
ro  ^jirfgahonFiu^ilaliu^  asttturmlxq?^ ^tain^njlfiuuis 
bru8  muttmnagts  oflhriiitur  ct  aho^okfotuia  asgrauautf 
pcaaquoqytr^l^ 

patwjjua  ctuofiais  e  QL  vhm  mto  ulflpcuietrtrilHtim  W 

.mteMijemijoraPtu^ 

^jmiuea5t?4)aulo  ctria^C^tetu^eo  ^^tftajpiibnraiua.- 

JQoif  oto  iuffrmu8Ctmtf  (Hfligrtanfl  Dp§aoouTaigtht/fl> 

oua  tW  nprn>tfY?lfirmirialiilin>  minima  timfa "WtoftiiTrnmni  hem*/ 


-j> 


J§  dffi  ©ratft  futili8  etf  iictrcpaiia  f  (ue&.qiaa  fdito  mfoltnuu 
efti  faUifia  tt^aiuAommituir€uii)auimCl)ujptftara8Diu| 
itunab«ttt.JKiOfflnat|imedutqi®^ttticalaiurii(R?fla 


I 


1* 


m\mm\\\\mmm\\M\\w 


1 


15 


^|[aiiptaflO  tymbolt  fcelpariSia 
j  ftpabotus  temptati  Ijouia  mfinmiji^fiaaaia 
our  osrtiir^tnBfi^ii&nmtBtelnmtS  fiktujJGrce^ 
r  as  tOudolmgsrftuitfiinuqtactb  iMlflflbihgoini 
atoturr  ePtd^autusurtihsm 

ito  DolmtantusiulMastt  caufen  Jftamtcnptit 
~yem$beuwuuK  tteoqrtaao  feaadatfaamqiT 
ttuittugrauatrmilhistobtcm^        qtf  cmttraoiuue 
tanancaificntimiD  Mnmtf  Uortn  auttmaimaiuecota^ 
^aoantur  tamemayimc jptctr  bona  ithuquaibaiuma 
nuttttnttueafe  flefiba^-ammguutetti  obnnr^uia 
ijfPBTmttis&tet  tbanu^D  omi  CubQmuiatrtxkaKpu& 
tiara  go^rtamjohiirfTilhs  tt  fimiUbus  alhttpaamam 
que  rib araimcrmtetc  qiikftpmimTTlm  Dib^Tliip  a^ 
hMut  bpabolu$I)atmurDutttriJti  &cinaitafua|rtatT 
jITicrtejpiiumtunsiiiayumisftafc  ©^mamlTOtaj» 
^wapuc  qui  uottuuKtr  nmurah  que  raro  rQi  fuut  Dooefr 
e^ptaiaa  tuauxfefta  fe&  frequenter  ^accahbuspuiaf^ 
^dapoftnu0trl)rtah&t^  etf  efflutwa  atr^ 

tonga  Wfchttitur  que  cjiu&eut  mfinratas  ykn&B  rt  jem> 
jmc  a&  ttta^ttxanbu|iorito$  rti  uuftr  moueutes  aj&oo  trb  ^ 
Ottf  tnpaomfes  ftbfi  ttmrutttrantesirti  flleruqft  ^uumo  ^ 
bolffimtimaaautaanietttea^  ^ 

fiocb  fepc^ifiun  tf^  ^ 

lesnrttm  m^erartcfiaamt  carttatcrate?ljcnroiwo  qui    g 
art>SiqiasmmMo»rgrttiibu^  % 

Hurfcaaccuut  Dgmruictt  q>(Ufi£irutthrl)eimT^         ^ 
M&mtasiiantttsbi  bcmmiacftf:-^  § 

f 


i 


$> 


17 


^ 


1 


1 


I 


a 


d)        !&oita  mlpiracio  ftuarhbepaeienaa 
©utratereiaintrmptaaoue  ^aboUbatrangrluo  bona  m? 
Qnranoue  bireue  0  ljomo  aucrtt  ab  ipacia  atiu  tuup  qua 
opaooliio  ftit6  uuuhfrno  jttthcmtiouibtte  uirtjil  aliuO  tpamme 
tile  Demmetmu  quentuwp  ipaaam  etmunnur  amma^bitur. 
(\riiv$  pacinian  polTibetur  .trfltJlnrtpotto  qui  atf3£eguu  retou 
uullua  uiurmurauo  amptt^^Irujitur  iufirmitatis  que  reipectu 
merirtg  tfufcu  tcuta  eftr.uou  tebeatf  cum  ipa  amr  raoarm  to  qiiafi 
quoDbam  purgutom  eiini  tolleratur  utr  opmtctmbeheetfpanm^ 
trr  ef  libcntrr  cihu  cptttituMnr.quta  uo  foltuu  jjratiriiDmeopua 
rtb  m  Ipja  qur  funf '  ab  coufolatioue  feb  enam  que  timtf  ab  affhe  * 
$$|  ttouF.qum  ttfsrrgtmua  attf  .fftifenco*biter  briie  trmpale  abljibetf 
$8   feumtatcueeteruam  mfi^atWoiif.iftaug?^urI;iriKrerlhn 
uMnrtnii  mitiji ucaa  .J/^uIle  et$o  tnbulaaouee  tr  .pturbmf  quia 
fpm  nolle  it  rmuqimt  olibuut  mjrtn  illub  &ujmBIalft  que  uoa 
tjiepuuiutf  ab  beu  uo6  ire  tjpclluttf  J&ou  tgitur  aninic  (alua 
ajpzobatur  meariuo  beucplacitia  frit  potma  ctrrua  Dautpnario 
xurta  Ulub  flu^^iijiiu  mauifttte  bampuatiomaefr  benrplanm 
aflanu  etf  a  mnDo  biligi  .0#  tfrru  uuru  eft;  q>  oniibua  Trtmiii  Dap* 
uaubto  oiu0  lapipee  ifo  furgirt<Tfolacui>rcbmagi6  mini  efb 
o>  ouubua  Tetmiu  falimttbia  oma  lapibee  up  Cursut  mjimlu 
^cpcile  ergo  a tr  tnpanam  trjj>  peftf  wulcuta  et<  aOiuue  paffam 
fa^fortiflimu  quo  otue  unua  amine  fttaliter  fujmutiuT  c*rrtpicc 
m  paneutifTmui  etf  ome  fanctao  *ufi#  ab  tuo?mu.     0     ^ 
Ota  emu  rafmutio  feutit-Tettmptmnp  ipaamu  g&derrt  pmo  q> 
oaua  e  mpafia,q{ua  ipm  mquiettmooetfjJturtmuboftbco  aiiut? 
quia  buo  bunt  3\vp  que  ttqiucwtf  Ipua  mcue  mli  fup  quietu  etf 
Ijiuiulr  cosbejjeambo  qriberrtfjppaaa?foflwt?fcniautm,p:im^ 
quia  e  uma  A3tibc  pauula^acia  etfpobie  uma.ifr  bno  .jj^ounr 
ouortiittrpati^pui  etf  ifuTtrarc  mjjtoaouifiia  .jfr^nB^me . 
ijjuy  feruan  couctsbia  nifip  paciam ualct^ecunDo  qiimfutiliG 
IftibeDtifilupanamra  polfibcbitta  aiaa^ras  Jfrgcq^vto.fto* 
luwa  ramtifttabiietfatoHemrerp  bout's  ppibue  iufubarc, 
^bou^meforo  manure  ffleflofTutmiatipanmaaraTanimo 
\jeracrter  (riiiamue  M  falomon  fMm  en/paelena  vxvo  feti 
etf  qmimatw  animofuo  5rpufliiato^t>Kbiumr 


^^— IW^^M 


18 


19 


7 


§ 


1 


I 


llentptaao  ftpaboliie^atia,  glona  r 
arto  Ojmboluo  trmptaf  Ijommem  tuhrmuj) 
r  fimpiiio  romplacennam  qur  efrtupUiatptrmiauo 
nuapeAorte  eFrrUciofia  atqjpfrcho  magia  rftftnftl> 
tiio  fLumnuljommr  a&Ocuianoiiui  afiiirautrmbrlpaao 
nmt  mV  aD  iupaamaa  turn  potett  m&iiccrc  tfnir  aggtr* 
bitur  cmnji ffo  tpma  ctrotplacmna  tales  Teuui  ian'tlaus 
cogttanouca  .p  $  6vmm  a?  m  6t>c  $  fetid  in  fpf  etf  rj>  ron  * 
Ihmteryactee  ttttiia  tnftrmitafroquawiuultaUonap^atiiG 
re  luajmuesionan  acbtf  quia  turn  eo  tieufr  rrtn  qui  mfr 
uitamala^ttrariiutf  wtmnmfblo  grniitii  ab  crtrfharrf 
na  pmimmiuf  igUtut  reguii  ctlorftm  ttUi  inre  negan 
nou  potrftf  quia  Irgittuue  rrrtafh  .tflcrtpc  ergo  mom 
tifoparafnm  cfr  frtcm  ^rcrUmacftcm^ecrtma  optincbi6 
Jer  ifla  tf  fmriha  Dpabolue  ixiCtatitifluuc  labfcatf  tjomr 
ami  iuburett  a)  tpmtuftlem  fupcrbtam  fine  a)  Cut  iptua 

complammauu 

j&zo  quo  notaiibiun  ip  ithi  fuperbia  miiltu  rfb^itnnba 
4&mm  quia  per  earn  Ijomo  rfficrtur  fitiiilio  Dpaboto  nam 
per  (blam  Gtpbiaro  be  angrto  fartuo  rib  tyabolus, 
Serunbo  qmaper  ipfem  Jjomo  >nDetur  committor  Wof* 
pl;rnumn  yev  tyor  q>  bonmu  qb°abeo  Ijabefr  afcptffnmitf 
l;aberM?rao  qutatantnpotWcfTe  Kta  complacmctfl 
q>  per  l>ane  Dampuatthutr^iibe  gntpntuo  Sfiuimftf 
1)0  quiD  bom  t)tf  gtffttf  buml fe  apub  fe  mjwiKeqntb  aur^ 
teem  Ijimulitatio  wM^attijiiQinue^  onto  fife 
utfhfimucntf  cfbe  mflicia  fua  jwfumplcra'  cabitf , 


71 


M 


20 


^r^^^^^^g^^SBlMi 


21 


1 


^ 


*» 


| 
1 


— /r        Sotift  mlptracio nangli  contra  Dana  c$lo:ia 

D' dDutra  qiiarfii  trmptocionr  J^aboh  batfnngrliifl  boua 
^  jjjnljnnmaiie  tomio./Rifir  air tii fupprfna  aflcnbento 
ninipiamlhmnamfi&r  fpetf.paanina  qurtiifohDco  af^ 
fmbaiba  rth  mm  nidjil  bom'  atr  Ijabcaa  6uo  tormtr^me  me 
mdjil  potrfhs  facftr^alibxffnpniei^ouhbiarTO0COiiD 
triartroitoutriufolcntrr  ejtollao  mrmlDrtrpfumae  nirhil 
bomtrtrimbiite.tftDnG  air  giiife  craltatf  tymuihabitur. 
if e<i(rniui.j/itfi  efftnauu  firutr^iiultia  tftr  uo  intrabitiG 
m  rrmm  cno:utu  .tt)imulia  ergo  tr  *  ^altabemo  Mcrntr 
iffio  $ui  fc  tjuuuhof  rraltabitfn?  .$v  afij$?J|itr  l;umiUao 
fccu6  DcCmi  W  all  tr,  fttr  e^almo  Mm  rrtr&er  atr.ftutr  ergo 
tnrntf  tiiaafitpbia  qxie  limfifn  quonfta  aujgibai  pnlrijem  * 
mnimtf  tymbobml  DcfimufliimTctrDcalta  crtoam  p*oirritf 
aD  iufrrm  jnoftm&a  que  cnamfiWcaiifa  omniu  yccrato^ 
Wnbc  bminrtmo)nmuomi6  pecrati  rtfraufatomi6.jriu/' 
aonie  iMnpbia,)  0em3H)lle  Ijonnrtii  tf  fine  labo:e  ouua 
marrfrcautur,  „ 

•^nbc  fiujjulantrf  notmtbum  q>  quciitft  moaturno  Imtiti 
tctrmptaripa#fv$bia5cb(*p2iitio  cogitm?  cpfiiybtatrnt^ 
tu  dro  DiCphciitf  g>  folaipms  occafionc  uobihflVmamnra* 
turara  luafrrii  cum  onnbiio  fibi  aitjcrmtibiie  Dc  crtvD 
rcicgauitf  inetmiu  aauipnan&o.tfrOr  entail  conhDerariO 
ue  fc  hiimilutf  attp  fcrpnmatf  fuamomtauDo  pcrrata 
q(uaisixoiatanoMo\)c{  aiuoie&iguuB  Tmr^irte  oebetf 
p:mpuc  capcrc  crciiiplu  a  faitcto  aitrijomo  an  ty>abota6  w 
w®  antljom  tu  me^irifti  cu  rm  volo  tr^ralturrtii  Drpanue 
cu  tr"uola  icpiue  tfite  mjsu^cift  icber  coffitarr  %  ljuilitaa 
twlreoplaaurfpjmpuc  tpute  ocrafionc  tjtonofamrgoma* 
na  &cu  concept*  ePfug  djoioo  angeteum  rjealfata  rfK> 


yMMMMKS^Mmm 


s 


22 


i»;^gg»wB 


23 


^^^^^SMBM^^B^ 


m< 


IGutpttu 


iptncu)  tomboti  to  auantm 
mtatmiptnno  tymbott  rOlauarMA  tumjia 
tularP8  en  carnal©  tiiMuus  que  rfh  mmia 
ctupacto  ttmjjaUu  attp  mmo*uui  circa'u^ee  etf 
amicus  carnal©  fai  co^alre  inrnaas  atxj?  aha  q 
tnciffte  niDitafuaiiil^minG^rr.qucMboIue 
boumictii  mortme  tjcrati  uifine  biccua^D  uuQtt 
mtamretinqii^  oiutu^tppijialia  que  foIliatuDiui^ 
bus  efc  labanbue  mejiuus  (UutrcoucKgata  ma 
n^o&ui^al©  confaugumpoa  auufl)n)8  mnflimos 
&  onwtaolia  Imtus  uumbi  iiffitwrnbitia  quoauu 
te&Qrttctt  a&tyiic  lutti^ttbiiaatEauiii-fiKtfcla'^ 
flum  una  quo  ($  juamu  booi  occafcoifyer  rp  foiuv 
Ua&jjaMud  bouitul  lacettTmte  be  audnaa^dctt^ 
tat  utf  lir^rtf  auuurai  eh  aipi&itatautm*aioaT 
auertntf  am&ebartf  p^oinrnfalutt^Dufic  Bugu^ 
larrtrti  utrtan&uui  a>  iu^fuiif  mnm  fcpbetf  tie  cui^ 
^vuioneitte  aiuw  rotates  ijw  Itbrtx  btnfctf  ctr 
aliatnnuaUa  ab  uimicmaw  ttbucautim  mfi  tu 
qirtum  uUiO  tafirmt  (ptuttmlis  fanttae  poftul* 
autf  request  quia  alias  tu^raue^pttruloliau  effrtf. 
tuficabjira  que  tyu&di  thlirtis  Tutttt  auibus  marine 

nine  omipuaDiribua  mtmoabus  rtfr^mmibuaF 
tm&auniefrimmithUTaliil^ 
etfcarnahatuncfttut  uu^JmafoIlirttu&tueaiucmo^ 

nactiumtter/moumba  mquibiis  oEttetutic  occupy 
rtr(ti>alDe|icalofum 


m-- 


VL 


m 


% 


5JS 


I 


J&otMmfjnr&fto  auatfcoutroaunmm 
outmqutotnujjtiitiouripabob  batanglsboua  m 
JpiraaQurOtrci&d^imio  auteaurcstuasamoatfeff 

m  (nggj&oiulms  D^abohqailiuatrimtaTrt tufirircmu^ 

ttu#  omiaintgialia  totebttr  yofr 
uirfjalaluttsjDu^^  nif 

iu<K>jbo#  bin  aD  cos  quulh&  ab^nitujRifiquiorainjDtaue 
vttf  ouutma  q  po  IHOctr  no  poteftruima  rift  birapnkt&fftite^ 
ru^iqma  ucurfta&utfrtf  uo  obittpmu  fuu  *  turcoi  ebl3jo< 
reetffiiios  flfmeKCowm  abtjuc  nopQfrftruien8  effr  &ififr 
iulite.lte  aOjtf  a  quotha  miuaautj  tuoajftr  oufis  cjuir^ 
iuiqnt  domtivdfiteDrt  ro:c^8autfjJiau  autf  mmuaut 
ymc  aitf/filics  autt  agit^jptrr  uoiueweu  oeutuyluampv^ 
tt  etf  Dita  rtetiapo(n^rt/>mflnEt^nma.paiiytatiB^to 
aiioqrtep  aiftfhsaumtt  bitorfToaa  tf  bifoputos  canfliuiosg 
iptertua  ralutr  Qj  oirttffinir  irltn  qufte.db  nOO^  erta^>fiaK 
innfanmiifto  fiQutrpturmitroalui  femttflf aiaubituriil: 
nD^rttr  biiDtcapTism^ombrtntpa^amtJObigalJ i. 
oa^iitoDilmpmr  a^  | 

"uaioat  atejinubis  rtprtlrubo  uutuu  ab  volutaria^uptr 
1?  ii^imniteeti  (it  iTCpuialo^  p^uu©tbiJ)Afluraiate 
buo.imipanjHS  fpmtuqui  ipo^  fflli%iuc^4trctotu  be&cf 
tibibuuna8£fFa?t//^^  | 

na  lea  fiiubfaa^iTqu  iitfainus  faitib  frtairptary)  auanrS  | 
Ouaiuo^tamifl^.wifi&axtffiuo  9>auufctamo^abrafHI 
jaratnui'ataauuiie  rrrtuDttitrfbefftrgiKio  quiait3Tauto 
quia  afujjao  amozeoifingmir  $to  mtmftiiusTcfatluneW  ^ 
Irrtatar^rambo  5  fti)ttctJQ>^o[untana|faiiPta8  bomuir 
bcnafiorfictiai)  rrtumDuntibirartebuo»©fattpaupaTe 
Iputtoquiipoaieftfresiuictloiuui  ~ 


I 


26 


^gggWBJSgjE 


27 


S 


\ 


I 


^ 


& 


<Qhagmu^an6loqui  cpufum  rofe  habere  potiim^fiiu^aroto 
Vj)  uk  tim  jrnto  Tuoeau&a  uripTu  jjuflabilf  imam  fua  etr 
utrtntr  paffioiiie  fur  (iifopcrc  t>ijpeturJlerimt>o  tebgrtiGK 
mocrti  jjJimofamYrirgmr  mariam  jbo  fua  mrtiatnce 
j&raftc  oumro  aujjclo6  cfpeipiic  augdtuu^ofua  cuf^ 
tobiaDcputatu.Bcinirapotoloe  utartuttf  eonfrflfocB 
Blip  wtpittea  tpmalms  tamen  fllos  quoa  vd  qua& 
pnus  fatiua  Tucncratumr  fyabtttPtfftil&tP  qiumt  ^iua  * 
jjities  cum^ajjiue  fruofin  rtbcatr  manr  irireniu6 
ci  iRcTnitfittur  T)ttin  tnmfr  tcr  ilhun  vcrfum  .l&ifinipitti 
Doumtr  \nnrnla1ura  tibi  faenftcabo  Ijoftiam  laiibie , 
jj^amtffr  wfiiG  fmmltiimCftDomtantc  ctrbiturrtTc 
TnrtiitiG  iirpcca  IjouTi  biuuttmitiir  DTfitir  Vera  roufrflfiotir 
Oiartiir^trftirartrr^cr  ^uba^el  fitmha  qurTfiTmabtttto 
augulhtto  aCfinbiitf.nar  M  tin  ilju  rpi  ctftftua  palfioute 
a,?  ef  Ciffitu  fcfjnmiTrtfTtr|cntB6  bttumtrtfgiui&  marten 
blfticho  oitu  fco?  arfra^  nitoMauglb^ttcciibrufix-agia 
otni  electa^  fmtt  Ttrr  mr  ctt  oui6  Tmiicoc  uicos  \ixfibilre  ctrT^ 
vifibilcs  T  ijarljo*a  moms  mccihuc  ultimo  Dicat^it  maims 
-tuas  commfco  Cptii  mrii  £\  aittr  ifirra?  lib  fnatf  esonesincf 
TbicBt  aliquis  Dr  aftautib?  elnruocF  eo:a  co  otmics  vd  littamas 
bmota$Tquib?p:ti)c  faucMertabatut\JprVcro  o^f  toibrrrbr 
fiftm'o  W(hrerj]0tfft^3nDruota^  qiiotomfaliis  Ijoigi  fiuc 
cofifhtf  fotlirrtr  drait  debet Wifqiufip  w  libi  uefonMrt  amv 
to  DntotofiDriirt^Doncop^uiJimtTqhr^liTiui^  fiDdttrr  $£-- 
fiftat  aifi&eiflmftiuina  paacimft  Dcttonouf  ronftDcnciacF 
|frueraucia  tput  TettauDo  auimaiibo  anuajjtmia  CKoues 
ocuotas  p*o  co  fiftchtcr  toccnOo^efcljcii  paim  fiiiit  qui  hi 
moitr  pibjrittii6  tuis  ftOclitrr  affiftiit:  hunrogauDo  moucDo 
crjno  ipiG  teauDo.pfcrti  ai  ipi  mo:icaii6  iiondum  111021 
*urtmf  rtf  anting  mocirnrnl  fepr  uuferabtlitcr  jjirhtanturw 


American  Transcendental  Quarterly 
journal  of  new  england  writers 

DRAWER   1080 
HARTFORD,   CONNECTICUT     06101 


SUPPLEMENT 

Part  Three.   Page  102 


Fall 


* 


ft 


fc 


1973 


i-i 
o» 


e 

C 
0 

em 
o 


Tkz  Irmtds  of  tftt  Jiiwvzwpotis  MfcJ&raru 
ccrdiaftu  imnte  jjou> 
to  a  demcation  preview 
of  t£i& 

J&Cpfa  lA/ddo  Tzner5(m  Xoonv 

in  tfie-new 
JVortfo  fyaional  Qftravu 
titf  Cgwru  jlvenu&  Jfvrftv 

SaUmhij,  October  ig,  \^ft 
f  top  nnu 


a 

s 
o 
o 


c 
o 
■♦» 
a 
as 
H 
13 


M 
+» 

Li 
0 
A 
O 

05 


Pi 


a 
a 
v 


a 

•H 

« 


J{ejresftmenhs  J'roanvm  at  5  nnu 

Jfiyss  Shoemaker  SS1~ff1z  idau) 


Jfas.JM 


szi~$rho  (evi 


J 


emna. 


A 
Pi 

• 

« 

0 

43 
•♦» 

0 

Pi 

«J 

Li 

be 
e 
•♦» 
o 

A 
Pi 

W 

a 

* 

0 

oo 

aJ 
Pi 


0 
c 

0 

A 
•f 

a 
o 


o 

+» 

u 
0 

4» 
4» 
0 


r4  O 

Pi  OJ 

0  TO 

CO  •«* 


0 
d 
0 
U 
O 
A 


Li 

O 

o 

c 
o 
o 

1 

taO     T3 

a 

- 1 

Pi   5 

(D        B 


• 
P 
Pi 

0 
O 

a 
0 

TJ 

a 
o 
P 
w 
o 
U 
u 
o 
o 


CO 


to 
to 


^. 


^T/*; 


0 

A 
En 


% 


' 


104 


MARGARET  BOWEN'S  POETRY-TRAVEL  THROUGH 

PAIN 


SINGING  PLACES 


BY 
MARGARET  BARBER  BOWEN 


THE  CORNHILL   COMPANY 
BOSTON 

[1919] 


TO 

A.  B.  C. 

WHO  GOING  DOWN  THE  PATH  OF 
PAIN  FINDS  SINGING  PLACES 


The  Path  of  Pain  is  very  dark 
And  very,  very  long, 
Bui  even  in  its  utter  deeps 
Somewhere  upsprings  a  song. 


MY  PILGRIMAGE 

Whereso'er  my  journeyings 
Over  Earth's  uncharted  beauties 

There  is  something  clear  that  sings 
Down  my  path  of  daily  duties. 

As  I  make  my  pilgrimage 

Thro'  a  world  endowed  with  graces, 
Joy  becomes  my  heritage; 

Lo!  I  walk  thro'  singing  places. 

Like  a  bird  within  its  cage 
So  my  Heart  a  Song  encases; 

Wheresoe'er  my  pilgrimage 

Still  it  leads  thro'  singing  places. 


THE  BLUE  NUNS  SING 

Each  day  with  setting  of  the  sun 
From  cloistered  shelter  slowly  file 

The  Nuns  in  Blue,  and  one  by  one, 
Proceed  in  shadows  down  the  aisle. 

(The  outer  bloom  of  Life  and  Sun 
Must  be  denied  a  holy  Nun.) 

Then  seated  silently  apart, 

From  mundane  worshippers  defined, 
These  singers  of  the  contrite  heart 

Begin  the  worship  of  their  kind. 

But  in  the  music,  sweetly  sung, 

The  prisoned  Woman's  soul  makes  cry- 
The  Womanhood  so  rudely  flung 

Aside  as  sin,  unconsciously, 
Unbidden,  but  insistent  still, 

Sings  with  a  voice  that's  all  her  own. 
The  Nun  is  fabric  of  the  will, 

But  Woman — God  can  make  alone! 

The  singing  ceases  with  the  fight, 
The  fleeting  candle-gold  is  gone; 

The  Blue  Nuns  pass  into  the  night, 
Their  tiny  glimpse  of  Day  is  done. 

(The  outer  bloom  of  Life  and  Sun 
Must  be  denied  a  holy  Nun.) 


105 


AT  THE  ENGLISH  CRAFT-SHOP  IN 
CASA  GUIDI 

(The  Home  of  the  Brownings  in  Florence) 

Within  the  Casa  Guidi  mute  I  stood 

Where  from  its  famed  casement  I  could  see 

Palazzo  Pitti,  and  the  Boboli 

Flinging  its  bloom  across  my  memoried  mood. 

Resist  those  memories,  whosoever  could 

Despite  the  lure  of  lapis  lazuli 

And  sun-kissed  amber  fashioned  graciously — 

For  here  insistent  did  her  presence  brood — 

That  English  linnet,  small  and  lyric-wise 

Who  sang  her  heart  out  'neath  these  Tuscan  skies. 

So  tiptoed  I  the  stair  past  her  dear  door, 

Her  craft-shop,  where  so  radiantly  were  wrought 

The  lucent  jewels  of  a  woman's  thought     .     .     . 

The  craft-shop  Casa  Guidi  knows  no  more. 


Where  the  myriad  emerald  lizards 

Gleaming  where  we  pass 
Praise  him  with  their  lucent  beauty 

In  the  emerald  grass; 

Where  those  old  and  sacred  columns 

Towering  up  in  calm 
Are  a  moulded  Benediction 

And  a  builded  Psalm. 


Slowly  o'er  the  plains  from  Paestum, 

From  the  temples  there, 
Came  we  chastened  into  Cava, 

Purified  by  prayer. 


RAVELLO 


PAESTUM 

Slowly  o'er  the  plains  to  Paestum 

Trailed  the  tourist  train; 
Bleak  and  bare  and  grim  they  stretched  there 

In  the  April  rain. 

Slowly  o'er  the  plains  to  Paestum — 

Suddenly  a  bush 
All  aflame  with  reddening  Springtime 

Broke  the  visual  hush. 

Slowly  o'er  the  plains  to  Paestum 

Pilgrimage  divine, 
Pilgrimage  to  pagan  temples — 

What  religion  thine! 

Noblest  records  of  religion — 

Pagan  was  it?    Then 
Might  the  Christian  churches'  builders 

Pagans  be  again! 

For  a  wave  of  utter  worship 

Flooded  all  my  soul, 
And  the  peace  of  perfect  Beauty 

On  my  spirit  stole. 

Beauty  in  its  great  dimensions 

Nothing  is  but  God — 
And  beside  those  pagan  temples 

Knelt  I  on  the  sod. 

Would  that  in  ornate  St.  Peter's 

One  could  send  a  prayer 
Unassisted,  straight  to  Heaven 

As  in  temples  there, 


Breathless  from  the  dizzy  beauty  of  that  drive 
within  a  dream 
Turquoise-colored,     emerald-tinted,     sapphire- 
shrouded,  wind  we  still 
Upward,  upward,  ever  upward,  toward  that  cita- 
del supreme 
Which  in  centuries  now  silent  held  dominion 
on  the  hill. 

Over  roads  where  Latin  princes,  proudly  mounted, 
used  to  ride, 
Roads  which  wear  a  look  eternal,  telling  Man 
he  is  but  dust, 
Winding,  winding,  ever-winding,  serpent-like  they 
coil  and  glide 
Round  the  crags  and  thro'  the  forests,  and  we 
follow  where  we  must! 

Pulsing,   panting,  palpitating,  at   the   glory    all 
amaze, 
Winding,  winding,  ever-upward  in  a  wonder- 
woven  spell, 
Till  at  last  Completed  Beauty  lies  before  our  sated 
gaze, 
And     the    olive-cheeked    Giuseppe    murmurs 
raptly:    "E  Ravell'!" 


THE  LEPER  ON  THE  CAPRI  ROAD 

I  pray  your  gracious  alms,  Signora,  sweet. 
A  leper  I,  and  tho'  the  scene  be  gay 
With  hyacinthine  glimpses  of  the  bay, 
And  orange-hedges  coloring  the  street, 


106 


Yet  am  I  sombre,  lacking  bread  and  meat; 

No  home  but  any  lane  wherein  I  stray, 

Which  dimmer  grows  as  dimmer  grows  the  day, 

And  wearier  and  worn  my  lagging  feet. 

I  pray  your  gracious  alms,  O  lady  fair, 

For  as  I  caught  the  rustle  of  your  gown, 

And  glimpsed  the  burnished  amber  of  your  hair, 

I  thought  the  Lady  Mary  had  come  down 

In  visioned  answer  to  my  silent  prayer 

To  raise  me  up  and  crown  me  with  her  crown. 


AT  OBERAMMERGAU 

The  Christ  hangs  white  upon  the  cross, 

The  Marys  silent  weep, 
And  thief  to  left,  and  thief  to  right 

Is  sunk  in  shamed  sleep. 

Then  through  the  gloom  of  stricken  throng 

Strained  in  remorseful  hush, 
There  shimmers  sweet  a  triumph  note — 

God's  messenger — a  thrush! 


THE  GARDEN-HOUSE  AT  WEIMAR 


Then  a  sudden,  April-mocking,  uninvited  shower 
Quick  eclipsing  Bird-in-song  and  Bush-in-flower, 
But  around  the  Titan-torrent  flickered  all  the 

while 
Golden  sunshine,  swift-recalling  Goethe's  smile! 

Round  the  Garden-House  at  Weimar  linger  Sun 

and  Rain, 
Nature's  subtle  reminiscence — Joy  and  Pain 
Such  as  filled  the  days  of  Goethe  when  his  urgent 

art 
Was  the  bitter-sweet  absorption  of  his  heart. 

Round  the  Garden-House  at  Weimar  slowly  Dusk 
drew  on 

Cautious,  dubious  of  the  Daylight  as  a  faun. 

Thro'  the  silent,  perfumed  wetness,  faintly  breath- 
ing by, 

Then  I  heard  the  inspiration  of  a  sigh! 

And  his  spirit,  in  the  dimness,  almost  touched  my 

own 
Then,  the  mystic  bond  was  broken — he  was  flown! 
But  the  Garden-House  at  Weimar  with  its  Goethe 

thrill 
Burned  a  scarlet  spot  in  Memory — vivid  still. 


In  the  Garden-House  at  Weimar  wistful  with  the 
June 

Peeped  I  forth  from  long-craved  casement  (bliss- 
ful boon!) 

From  the  cherished  crystal  casements  whence  his 
frequent  face 

Had  gazed  down  in  sweet  enjoyment  of  this  place. 

Emerald  lawn  and  shaded  pathway,  cool  and  very 

dim, 
Velvet  moss,  a  fragrant  carpet  crushed  by  him, 
Flowering  bush  with  eager  Bluebird  on  its  tilting 

bough 
To  be  telling  of  his  music  shrilly  now. 

Of  his  sweetly  haunting  music,  wildest  ecstasy 
Mingling  with  a  sadly-sweeter  misery, 
Music  sometimes  fondly  chiming  manly  friend- 
ship's strain 
With  its  moving  Schiller-mofif,  and  again 

Music  shadowed  with  the  sorrow  of  a  love-lost 

way, 
Or  again,  the  glorious  passion  of  to-day. 
These  the  strains  the  eager  Bluebird  would  for  me 

retell 
With  its  tiny-toned  re-chiming  silver  bell. 


IN  A  COLLEGE  GARDEN 

{Oxford) 

How  could'st  thou,  Shelley,  in  this  sacred  spot 

Feel  God  is  not? 

Where  every  gracious  bush  and  mystic  flower 

Proclaims  His  power, 

Where  Wisdom  permeates  the  cloistral  air 

And  proves  Him  there? 

For  what  is  Wisdom  but  a  branch  of  God, 

A  flowering  rod 

Assuring  by  its  very  blossoming 

That  it  did  spring 

From  out  a  source  beyond  its  patentness — 

Could'st  thou  not  guess 

What  Source?   Thou  ardent  beauty-loving  soul, 

Not  guess  the  whole, 

When  its  so-radiant  and  persuading  part 

Entranced  thy  heart? 

This  hour  within  the  University 

They  showed  to  me 

Thy  writing— by  thy  certain  boyish  hand — 

When  thou  did'st  stand 

Declaring  in  thy  knowledge,  youngly-sure, 

With  purpose  pure, 

That  no  Supremer  Being  did  exist; 

An  atheist 


Thou  with  a  fondly-proud  publicity 
Did'st  claim  to  be. 

O  brave  pathetic  Boy!     In  thy  white  days 
To  choose  thy  ways 
Alone,  and  unsustained  essay  thy  flight 
Thro'  Life's  black  night     .     .     . 
Within  thy  Skylark  on  his  starward  wing- 
In  that  small  thing — 
Unconsciously  a  greater  wisdom  grew — 
He  knew,  he  knew! 

"Blithe  Spirit,"  he  winged  surely  to  the  skies, 
So  wise,  so  wise! 


THE  LOVELY  LADS  OF  RUGBY 

("Dulce  Domum  Resonemns") 

We  waited  there  at  Rugby 

For  the  oncoming  train 
And  thro'  my  thoughts  the  Rugby  lads 

Came  homing  back  again. 


107 


So  sweet  a  home  is  Rugby 
That  surely  never  yet 

E'en  space  or  years  or  sorrows 
Could  make  the  lads  forget. 


JOYCE  KILMER 

Within  a  rolling  meadow  above  the  river  Ourcq, 
Which  flows  beneath  the  autumn  sun  serenely  to 

the  sea, 
There  rises  straight  a  small  green  copse — 
'The  Wood  of  the  Burned  Bridge"— 
Which  has  a  look  of  sheltering,  as  tree  stands  close 

by  tree. 

The  little  wood  protectingly  spreads  out  its 
branching  arms — 

As  e'en  a  human  mother  might  to  shield  a  cher- 
ished child — 

To  guard  the  new-made  mound  of  one  who,  sing- 
ing, went  to  sleep 

With  all  the  blithe  sweet  melody  of  youth  still 
undefiled. 

A  cypress-spray  lies  friendly-wise  upon  his  silent 

graveside, 
Placed  tenderly  by  comrades  in  an  ecstasy  of 

sadness — 
But  over  there  this  singing  boy,  safe  with  the 

Judge  All-righteous, 
May  know  himself  anointed  with  the  oil  of  utter 

gladness. 


And  now  when  England  summons 
They  swift  obey  her  call — 

But  turn  their  hearts  to  Rugby 
Ere  they  must  fight  or  fall. 

Dear  lads,  the  flower  of  England, 

How  gallant  an  array ! 
(For  they  are  Youth  incarnate 

Upon  this  dreaming  day.) 


Long  may  the  little  watchful  wood  stand  sentinel 
above  him, 

Soft  may  the  little  river  run  thro'  bloodstained 
meadow  clover, 

Until  the  poppies  fill  the  grass  proclaiming  Peace 
perpetual. 

And  Song  immortal  rise  on  wings — warfare  for- 
ever over! 


True  to  their  master's  model, 

In  nobleness  defined 
They  marched  in  blithe  battalions 

Thro'  my  enmemoried  rumd. 


The  music  of  their  marching 
Made  mystical  refrain — 

Then  sang  itself  to  silence 
With  the  approaching  train. 


O  lovely  lads  of  Rugby, 

Where  are  you  marching  now? 

And  which  of  you  bears  Death's  calm  kiss 
Upon  his  boyish  brow? 


SIDNEY  LANffiR 

His  lyric  wings  superbly  rove 

The  rarer  ether,  far  above 

The  simpler  blue  wherein  do  move 

The  ordinary  birds  of  song 

To  which  we — you  and  I — belong — 

(Our  wings  are  neither  sure  nor  strong.) 

But  he — a  princely  Nightingale — 
With  movements  true  to  star-set  sail 
Undrooping  thro'  the  sternest  gale 
Leaves  us  small  sparrows  near  the  ground 
Still  chirping — gay  that  he  has  found 
The  wonder-winding  Way  of  Sound. 


His  lovely  lingering  notes  of  flute, 
Or  softly-singing  strains  of  lute, 
Make  other  music-makers  mute; 
So  perfectly  he  knew  his  art, 
A  Song  went  singing  down  his  heart 
Unknowing  where  it  found  its  start! 


TO  SAROJINI  NAIDU 

(On  Reading  "The  Broken  Wing") 

From  western  Winter's  stern  and  loveless  cold 
Wistful  for  warmth  and  rapture,  to  your  mild 
And  lucent  East,  O  "Golden-hearted  Child," 
We  turn — to  glimpse  its  beauties  manifold 
Enmirrored  for  our  eyes,  as  deft  you  hold 
The  glass  to  visions — mystic,  joyous,  wild — 
As  if  the  Orient  Spring  looked  in  and  smiled 
To  see  her  image  violet  and  gold. 

Chakora-birds  come  blithely  at  your  call; 

Thrilled  by  your  voice  the  oleanders  bloom, 
Like  us,  swift  servants  to  your  lyric  thrall; 

The  lotus-buds  burst  gladly  in  the  gloom; 
Saffron  and  silver,  radiant  over  all 

The  magic  Dawn  escapes  her  nightly  doom. 


EMILY  DICKINSON 

(fVhen  she  "took  up  her   simple   wardrobe   and 
started  Jor  the  Sun") 

How  was  it  when  you  reached  the  Gate? 

I  think  it  was  like  this: 
You  asked  St.  Peter  was  it  late? 

You  didn't  want  to  miss 

Your  personal  appointment, 
For  you  had  come  to  stay. 
He,  twinkling,  deft,  the  Gate  unlocked 

And  beckoned  you,  "This  Way." 
Within  the  outer  halls  you  met 

Old  friends  of  Soul  and  Mind, 
But  nodding  amicably  you 

Just  left  them  there  behind 
To  penetrate  Sanctissimum 

And  find  Himself,  The  Lord — 
Twas  He  who  asked  you  to  respond 

And  you  could  not  afford 
To  scatter  silver  instants 

When  He  awaited  you — 
So  punctual,  and  unperplexed, 


108 


You  knocked  a  time  or  two; 
Then  Milton  came,  and  Shakespeare, 
Polite  and  very  bland, 

Said,  "Emily,  allow  me!" 
And  kissed  your  little  hand. 

But  you,  indifferent,  hurried  in, 
When  they  had  had  their  say, 

With  "I  am  looking  for  the  Lord, 
I  called  on  Him  to-day!" 


SOROLLA  Y  BASTIDA 

There  came  a  vital  impulse  out  of  Spain, 

All  Joyousness,  all  Nature,  and  all  Light; 
A  peasant-painter,  conqueror  of  Pain, 

Portrayer  of  a  pagan-pure  Delight. 
The  Elemental  issues  from  his  brush; 

Humanity  breaks  bonds  from  the  Effete; 
The  Sun,  the  Skies,  the  Seas,  in  primal  rush 

Recover  from  conventionalized  retreat. 
Enrapturing  maidens,  tawny-skinned  and  glad 

Sport  in  abandon,  sunshine-kissed  and  free, 
And  unrestrained,  in  Youth's  brief  beauty  clad 

Play  Atalanta  by  the  frolic  sea     .     .     . 
Our  thanks,  Sorolla,  and  our  homage,  take, 

For  this,  thy  glimpse  of  blithe  reality, 
And  many  a  pilgrimage  we  fain  would  make 

To  watch  thy  mirthful  waifs  of  Arcady. 


THE  VIOLINIST 

O  Master  of  the  glorious  instrument 

Which  voices  all  the  deeps  and  mysteries 

Of  souls  that  yearn  in  songful  sacrament 

To  offer  up  their  grateful  ecstasies, 

Of  hearts  that  throb  with  music  unexpressed, 

That  pulse  with  joy  or  break  in  hidden  shame 

To  loose  the  imprisoned  music,  and  confessed 

Stand  forth  the  Artist  'midst  a  world's  acclaim! 

Be,  mighty  Master,  but  the  Servant,  too, 

Of  these,  who  dumb,  thrill  to  themselves  alone; 

Let  their  hushed  melody  burst  forth  thro'  you 

As  in  the  dim  harmonics'  tender  tone 

The  silent  music  of  such  souls  upsprings 

And  sobs  itself  away  upon  your  strings. 


109 


THE  LULLABY  OF  MARY  MOTHER 


MY  LADY  OF  THE  MORNING  FACE 


I  creep  between  my  friendly  sheets 

As  white  and  crisp  as  snow, 

And  then  I  seem 

(As  in  a  dream) 

To  hear  so  soft,  so  low, 

The  Holy  Mary  singing — 

As  my  Mother  sings  to  me 

So  sings  she  to  her  little  boy 

Who  died  upon  the  tree: 

"Sweetly  sleep,  0  Heart  o'  my  Heart, 
Thy  mother  doth  watch  o'er  thee." 

(0  Mary  Mother,  dost  thou  know 
Thy  son  whom  thou  dost  fondle  so 
Will  die  upon  the  tree?) 

"Sleep  sweet,  sleep  deep,  0  Heart  o'  my  Heart, 
Nay,  do  not  tremble  and  weep  and  start, 
Hush — hush — sleep  sweet,  sleep  deep,  my  Heart, 
Soft  little  Heart  o'  my  Heart!" 


MY  MOTHER'S  EYES 

Pure  pools  of  perfect  Joy  they  are, 
So  liquid,  lucent,  lovely,  dear, 

Dilating  with  a  swift  surprise, 
Grown  radiant  and  crystal  clear, 

Or  deep  with  Mother-mysteries — 
My  Mother's  Eyes! 

Amid  the  darker  days  of  Life 
Two  tender  Stars  that  shine  so  true 

Flame  thro'  the  Darkness,  which  denies 
Its  sombre  and  despairing  hue 

When  it  in  dear  delight  descries 
M>  Mother's  Eyes! 

0  pools  of  Joy!    0  shining  Stars! 

Transmit  your  loveliness  to  me, 
That  as  the  flitting  Time-life  flies 

And  flutters  to  Eternity, 
Still  here  may  glow,  below  the  skies, 

My  Mother's  Eyes! 


O  Lady  of  the  morning  face, 
Where  is  your  present  dwelling-place? 
Have  you  a  pair  of  purple  wings, 
And  in  your  hand  a  harp  that  sings? 

Or  do  you  climb  the  heavenly  hilla 
To  dance  among  the  daffodils — 
To  pluck  each  golden  dew-filled  cup — 
And  help  the  little  angels  up? 

O  surely  God  would  let  you  do 
The  things  that  make  you  really  You 
Dispensing  Joy  and  Love  and  Grace, 
My  Lady  of  the  morning  face! 


THE  LITTLE  ROAD  AND  I 

The  little  road  went  winding  up, 
Went  winding  up  to  meet  the  sky; 
«T  think  I'll  fare  that  way,"  quoth  I, 
And  so  the  little  road  and  I 
Went  winding  up. 

We  deviated  in  and  out, 
All  in  and  out  and  roundabout, 
But  ever  facing  toward  the  sky. 
And  when  we  reached  it,  by  and  by, 
We  found  the  Lord  of  Low  and  High 
Who  bade  us  rest  a  little  while, 
Since  we  had  come  a  weary  mile, 
A  dusty  and  a  weary  mile, 
In  winding  up. 

And  so  amid  the  sky  and  flowers, 

The  sky  and  flowers,  which  all  were  ours, 

We  rested  there,  the  road  and  I. 

And  when  you,  too,  shall  come  to  die 

You'll  find  us  on  that  rim  of  sky, 

Waiting  to  greet  you  happily 

As  you  come  winding  up. 


THE  POET 

From  out  the  words  we  all  can  write 
He  brings  new  loveliness  to  light. 
With  stones  we  builders  set  at  naught 
He  rears  a  radiant  dome  of  thought. 
Its  curves  are  wrought  of  golden  Youth, 
Of  undreamed  Beauty,  virgin  Truth; 
And  we  lift  up  our  earth-born  eyes 
And  marvel  in  unused  surprise. 


110 


THE  SOAKING  OF  THE  SWALLOW 

(Teach  me  to  fly,  Mother,  teach  me  to  fly!) 

Oh,  Brother  of  St.  Francis,  small  swimmer  in  the 
blue, 

How  marvellous  thy  instinct!  Who  guided  thee 
so  true 

(Not  quite  so  high,  Birdling,  not  quite  so  high!) 

That  blithefully  persistent,  thou  tak'st  the  up- 
ward flight? 

Thou  makest,  all  undoubting,  thy  duty  a  delight. 

Thy  stumbling  great  Man-brother  might  joy  with 
thee  to  vie — 

(Not  quite  so  high,  Birdling,  not  quite  so  high!) 


THE  LITTLE  MAID  AND  THE  MASTER 

She  sat  at  the  spinet,  the  Little  Maid, 

She  sat  alone  and  afraid — afraid — 

For  the  Master  had  said  she  had  played — had 

played! 
So  long  she  had  practised  so  docilely 
The  scales  with  their  counting  of  "One — Two — 

Three," 
And  arpeggios  trickling  painfully — 
And  now  came  this  fearful  ecstasy! 
The  Master  had  said  she  had  played — had  played! 
She  slipped  from  her  seat,  all  tremblingly, 
And  bent  herself  on  her  rounded  knee, 
While  her  voice  ascended  fragilely, 
"O  Master,  Lord,  please  help  Thou  me 
To  practise  ever  faithfully!" 
To  The  Master  thus  she  prayed — she  prayed. 


A  PRAYER 


Give  me,  dear  Lord,  an  ample  mind 
That  I  through  insight  may  be  kind. 
Let  littlenesses  of  my  Heart 
Engender  wings  and  swift  depart! 
And  in  my  Soul  let  sympathy 
Unfold  her  petals  tenderly. 
Dear  Father,  in  humility 
I  do  petition  this  of  Thee. 


O  YOUTH,  SO  SWIFTLY  HAST  THOU  FLED 


THE  ANSWER 

"Why  gavest  not  Thou  me  the  gift  of  Strength 
That  I  might  prove  my  manhood,  O  my  Lord? 

Why  dost  Thou  thro'  my  days'  wild  wearying 
length 
Mute  Unperformance  unto  me  accord?" 

"A  pygmy  task  it  is  with  body  sure 

To  do,  to  act  with  vigor  unabating. 
*Tis  only  to  the  Strong  who  can  endure 

I  give  the  task  that's  thine — the  task  of  Wait- 
ing." 


0  Youth,  so  swiftly  hast  Thou  fled, 
Since  erst  pomegranate's  juices  red 
We  quaffed  together — Thou  and  I — 
A  chalice  drained  too  joyously 
To  chasten  with  a  far-off  dread. 

Now  pensive  and  demure  I'm  led 
Down  pallid  pathways,  tenanted 
No  longer  by  the  butterfly, 
O  Youth! 

For  winged  things  with  Thee  have  sped, 
And  creeping  things  do  fare  instead 
Beside  me,  as  I  loiteringly 
Wend  down  the  path  Maturity — 
But  Wisdom's  morning  lies  ahead, 
O  Youth! 


REPENTANCE 

In  gardens  red  with  roses  once  I  played 
All  careless  of  the  radiance  of  one; 

Now  naught  but  bloomless  stalks  hedge  in  my 
road 
As  I,  unflowered,  walk  my  way,  alone. 

Mine  eyes  so  dull  among  the  blossomed  ways, 
Grow  clear  in  darkling  days'  austerer  close, 

And  strain  them  in  the  dimness  for  one  small 
Relenting  petal  from  an  unplucked  rose! 


THE  PASSING  OF  JOY 


111 


MY  CIRCLE  OF  DELIGHT 


I  heard  Joy  trail  her  garments  near, 
(My  Heart,  she's  seeking  thee!) 

So  sped  I  forth  to  kiss  their  hem 
In  blithe  expectancy. 

Then  came  a  sobbing  through  the  night, 

A  moaning  in  the  mist, 
So  knew  I  (Hush,  my  little  Heart!) 

It  was  her  shroud  I  kissed. 


THE  BELATED  NIGHTINGALE 

When  young  I  searched  a  darkling  wood 

For  note  of  nightingale. 
It  came  not,  tho'  my  listening  mood 

Could  scarce  endure  its  fail. 

Maturer,  at  the  rim  of  night, 

Id.  Tuscan  village  small, 
I  caught  a  trill  of  bird  delight — 

"A  thrush",  thought  I,  "doth  call." 

At  morn  I  said:  "With  joy  I  heard 

A  marvel-throated  thrush." 
'A  nightingale"  (they  said)  "the  bird 
That  broke  the  purple  hush." 

But  Youth's  wild  rose  of  bloom  gone  pale, 
What  broke  the  purple  hush? 

To  them  it  was  a  nightingale — 
To  me — it  was — a  thrush! 


SINGERS 


Made  up  of  daily  arcs,  whose  sinuous  lines 
Curve  ever-surely  to  the  Circle  drawn 
In  master-strokes  and  generous  designs 
By  Him  who  painted  the  Creation's  Dawn, 
My  Circle  of  Delight  rounds  out  its  plan. 

My  little  hours  move  round  from  start  to  end, 
Some  golden,  some  subdued,  but  all  divine; 
Some  glowing  with  the  glory  of  a  friend, 
Some  darkened  by  distress — but  always  mine, 
My  radiant  ring — the  Life  of  God  in  man. 

For  me  the  joyous  task  supremely  given 
By  Him  who  lives  in  Wisdom's  Perfect  Light, 
To  mould  my  arcs  of  Life  to  compass  Heaven 
And  so  achieve  my  Circle  of  Delight 
Which  He  had  dreamed  for  me  ere  I  began. 


SONG 

"Oh!  What  is  thy  name,  Little  Bird,  Little  Bird, 
(Bird  fluttering  its  wings  'gainst  my  heart)  ? 

Oh!  speak  me  the  truth — if  thy  name  it  be  Youth, 
So  brave  and  so  blithesome  thou  art!" 

(O  foolish  One,  no! 

Ever  swift,  never  slow 

Are  the  wild  wings  of  Youth  to  depart!) 

"Oh!  What  is  thy  name,  Little  Bird,  Little  Bird, 
(Bird  singing  so  sweet  in  my  breast)  ? 

Thy  name  I  would  hear!  Is  it  Happiness  dear 
That  homing  hath  sought  a  soft  nest?" 

(O  foolish  One,  no! 
Fain  doth  Happiness  go 
Nor  tarry eth  ever  to  rest!) 

"Oh!  What  is  thy  name,  Little  Bird,  Little  Bird, 
(Bird  cuddling  so  soft  in  my  arm)  ? 

O  speak  me  thy  name!  Is  it  clear-singing  Fame 
That  lieth  so  close  and  so  warm?" 


A  solitary  robin  sang 

Upon  a  lonely  tree: 
(Symbolic  of  my  solitude 

That  robin's  song  for  me.) 

But  tho'  alone  I,  too,  can  sing, 
(So  Sorrow  set  me  free!) 

To  swell  the  Music  of  the  World 
Is  Joy  enough  for  me. 


(O  foolish  One,  no! 

Fame  is  colder  than  snow, 

Nor  seeketh  it  shelter  from  harm.) 

'Then  tell  me  thy  name,  Little  Bird,  Little  Bird, 

(Bird  nestling  so  trustful  and  near) !" 
"My  name,  Sweet  my  Own, 
All  the  days  thou  hast  known, 
It  is  Love,  it  is  Love,  ever  dear!" 


SONNET  OF  THE  HARVEST 


112 


HAMMOCK  SONG 


In  radiant  death  the  sinking  saffron  sun 
Departs  a  victor  in  the  dying  day. 
A  cricket  chirps  the  lingering  light  away 
As  cautiously  approach  the  shadows  dun, 
And,  bleating,  swift  the  little  lambkins  run 
Adown  the  dimming  path  they  often  stray 
Unwatched  and  sportive,  in  their  awkward  play. 
And  now  the  Harvest  Moon's  bright  benison 
Sweeps  o'er  the  plain  of  yellowing  harvest-fields 
Where,  in  the  gracious  gloaming,  sing  and  reap 
The  happy  harvesters,  whose  music  rings 
Around  the  harmony  the  Harvest  yields     .     .     . 
All  ended,  they  full  soon  shall  sink  to  sleep 
And  darkling  Silence  hold  the  Heart  of  Things. 


Within  my  hempen  crescent  I 
Am  Voyager  o'er  land  and  sky, 
The  grasses  brush  me  where  I  lie 
And  the  vast  blue  is  canopy. 

All  gloried  green  comes  surge  on  surge 
Of  soft  grass  waves  that  silent  merge 
Toward  Buttercup's  deep  golden  urge. 

The  gnarled  and  wrinkled  Apple  Trees 
Whose  knotty,  bowed  and  faithful  knees 
Uphold  my  crescent  for  my  ease 
Yield  melody  of  Birds  and  Bees. 

Gold  Oriole  and  Chaffinch  small, 
And  sparrow  twittering  thro*  all 
The  other  music,  swiftly  call. 

And  O  my  Heart!    A  Humming  Bird 
With  ruby  throat  adds  his  wee  word 
Of  perfect  motion — the  unheard 
Sweetness  of  Grace  his  God  conferred. 


A  PURITAN 

I've  felt  the  thrill  that  sweeps  the  soul 

In  olived  Italy, 
I've  threaded  ways  of  ancient  Rome, 

And  dreamed  in  Tuscany; 
In  Paestan  temples  have  I  prayed 

Upon  my  bended  knee — 
But  Oh !  the  sweet,  salt,  fragrant  air 

Of  Plymouth-by-the-sea! 
The  Alps  are  dazzling  white  and  fair, 

But  in  her  Springtime  green 
Mount  Moosilauke's  the  fairest  peak 

That  e'er  mine  eyes  have  seen! 
The  high-throned  coast  of  Portugal 

Compels  my  scrutiny, 
But  Oh!  the  blue,  blue  Berkshire  Hills! 

Their  beauty  speaks  to  me! 
Through  cloisters  old  and  dim  my  feet 

Have  reverently  trod, 
But  to  a  small  white  Meeting-house 

I  go  to  find  my  God. 
And  so  whene'er  in  aben  lands 

I  joyfully  may  roam 
It  sings  and  sings  within  my  heart: 

"New  England  is  my  homel" 


Within  my  hempen  crescent  I 

When  listless  watch  the  Dusk  draw  nigh, 

The  Breezes  are  my  Lullaby, 

And  Stars  bend  near  for  company. 


MOUNT  KINSMAN  IN  AUTUMN 

My  sinuous  shoulders  bear,  unspent, 

The  tamarack,  fir  and  pine; 
And,  stalwart,  bend  against  the  sky 

To  the  Divine  Design. 

Storm-sent,  the  ragged  clouds  sweep  o'er 
My  wind-tossed,  sun-seared  head; 

Caressing  mists  enswathe  my  brow 
Where  warmth  and  winter  wed. 

I  stand  serene  when  Eastern  glow 

Enwraps  me  in  her  bloom; 
I  stand  serene,  with  aspect  grim, 

In  twilight's  gathering  gloom. 

Tho'  men  pass  up  and  men  pass  down, 

I  stand,  and  give  no  sign; 
My  stalwart  shoulders  bend  alone 

To  the  Divine  Design. 


SPRING  IN  LOUISBURG  SQUARE 


113 


THE  DAILY  PAGEANT 


Nestling  half  way  up  the  hillside,  small  and  calm, 
all  unaware 
Of  the  rushing  and  the  rumble  and  the  mart's 
tumultuous  roar, 
A  shrine  to  storied  memory  sleeps  on  the  quaint 
old  Square, 
Where  Life  slips  back  from  Now  to  Then  as 
through  an  open  door. 

The  very  air  of  England  seems  caught  and  cher- 
ished dear 
Within  this  tiny  leisured  spot  of  brick  and 
guarded  grass; 
We  think  the  thoughts  of  bygone  days,  and  "now 
that  April's  here," 
Dream  dreams  of  Youth  and  violets,  all  lovely 
things  that  pass. 

The  houses'  brick  austerity  grows  friendly  and 
benign 
Beneath  the  jocund  wooing  sun;  the  slim  young 
leaves  unfold; 
A  juvenile  grey  squirrel,  his  bushy  tail  in  line, 
Runs  up  an  ancient  lichened  elm  and  there 
begins  to  scold. 


The  chirping  chickadees  retort,   and   soon   the 
startled  air 
Is  rent  by  myriad  chatterings;     till,  sweet,  a 
bluebird's  note 
Restores  the  primal  harmony,  and  once  again  the 
Square 
Sleeps  on  in  "poetry  of  earth",  quiescent  and 
remote. 


First,  little  Hours  tricked  out  in  golden  Dawn 
Who  send  their  fleet  and  winged  heralds  round 
To  wake  the  world  with  sweetly  chosen  notes 
From  yellow,  blue  and  brown  befeathered  throats 
That  swell  soniferous  with  supple  sound. 
And  tiny  winds  in  sleepy  blades  of  grass 
That  dream  them  flowers,  begin  to  stretch  and 

wake 
And  wash  themselves  within  a  cup  of  dew — 
Dear  little  children-Hours  that  are  so  few! 

Then,  older  mid-day  Hours  brave  to  behold 
In  liveries  of  brilliant  blue  and  gold; 
Maturer  Hours  of  later  afternoon 
In  shimmering  mixture  that  an  azure  haze 
Subduing  sunshine,  fashions  for  the  Day's 
Most  lovely  garment— fading  Oh  too  soon! 
Next  sunset  Hours  like  cardinals  arrayed 
By  Nature,  loving  purple  in  parade; 
Such  pomp  and  circumstance  she  now  bestows, 
Such  lavishness — as  when  she  shapes  a  Rose! 
And  last,  as  vaguer  grow  the  Nears  and  Fars, 
There  comes  a  dim  procession  bearing  stars. 

How  sadly  small  the  stature  of  his  soul 
Who,  gazing  on  this  pageant  of  a  Day, 

Can  only  sigh  and  blindly  turn  away — 
Instead  of  kneeling  down  in  joy  to  pray! 


THE  CLEARER  VIEW 

My  stained-glass  days,  so  brief  and  beautiful, 
Mid  Gothic  arches  spent,  with  filtering  light 
Of  amber  and  of  amethyst,  are  gone. 
Yet,  love  I  more  my  present  hours,  all  filled 
With  visions  of  the  sun's  unveiled  light 
Where  gazing  deep  into  the  Heart  of  things 
I  see  my  God,  undimmed,  approachable, 
Walk  in  the  gladsome  garden  of  His  world. 


,._ 


114 

DEFINING  THE  AMERICAN  TRANSCENDENTAL  NOVEL 

"  co' 


.<•* 

*#&* 


Thirty  years  ago,  Robert  E.  Streeter,  in  an  illuminating  article  on  Lydia  Ma- 
ria Child's  Philothea  (Boston,  1836),  on  three  counts  included  that  classical  ro- 
mance in  the  canon  of  Transcendental  fiction:  "...its  exposition  of  the  idealistic 
philosophy  and  of  intuitionism,  its  author's  personal  history  [i.e . .  association 
with  Emerson  and  the  Transcendentalists  and  a  letter  on  that  subject],  and  a  sig- 
nificant critical  reaction" — condemnation  of  the  work  as  Transcendental  and  Sweden- 
borgian  by  Prof.  Cornelius  Conway  Felton,  of  Harvard  University.1   In  view  of  the 
dearth  of  Transcendental  fiction,2   Streeter  confessed,  of  course,  to  difficulty 
in  defining  such  a  sub-genre  and  concluded  that  "although  one  cannot  conceive  of 
Philothea  without  Transcendentalism,  one  can  conceive  of  Transcendentalism  without 
Philothea."   One  reason  for  Streeter' s  uncertainty  regarding  Mrs.  Child's  inter- 
esting volume,  I  suspect,  is  the  fact  that  he  was  unconsciously  aware  of  elements 
and  purposes  in  that  novel  which  he  was  not  able  to  account  for  in  his  analysis 
besides  the  fact  that  he  had  arrived  at  his  conclusion  largely  by  extrinsic  con- 
siderations— biographical  facts  and  the  evaluation  of  an  anti-Emersonian  review- 
er,  who  considered  Transcendentalism  to  be  German  "moonshine.1"^   I  have  indica- 
ted elsewhere^  what  seems  to  have  been  Mrs.  Child's  multiple  purpose  in  composing 
Philothea.   She  certainly,  I  believe,  intended  to  write  a  "Transcendental  romance" 
and,  possibly,  to  supply  young  readers  with  a  fictional  handbook  to  Greek  culture 
after  the  model  of  Jean  Jacques  Barth6l£my's  Voyages  du  Jeune  Anacharsis.   She 
consciously  or  unconsciously  made  a  Bostonian  polemic  response  to  Fanny  Wright's 
A  Few  Days  in  Athens  (1822),  emphasizing  in  the  Plato  of  her  creation  a  repudia- 
tion not  so  much  of  the  Epicurus  of  Fanny  Wright's  little  book  as  of  the  much- 
bruited,  coarse  Epicureanism  of  Fanny  Wright's  personal  life  and  of  the  social 
experiments  in  Tennessee  and  Indiana. 

Without  intending  to  be  definitive  in  this  area  of  Romantic  fiction,  I  wish  to 
emphasize    intrinsic  criteria  that  will  justify  our  classifying  Philothea  and 
one  or  two  other  fictional  works  as  Transcendental  novels  or  romances.   They  are: 
(1)  an  exposition  of  the  Platonic,  Idealist  philosophy  and  (2)  a  serious  TONE. 
(I  thus  bypass  considerations  of  an  author's  intention,  except  insofar  as  it  may 
be  adduced  from  the  tone.)   That  the  employment  of  Platonic  Idealism  in  a  work  of 
fiction  will  not,  in  itself,  justify  our  calling  a  novel  "Transcendental"  may  be 
proved  conclusively  from  a  number  of  works  of  Romantic  Hellenism  that  flourished 
in  German  literature  contemporary  with  Goethe.   I  shall  here  concentrate  on  one 
of  these,  popular  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  in  Emerson's  day  because  John 
Richardson  translated  it  into  English:   Christoph  Martin  Wieland's  The  History  of 
Agathon.  (4  vols.)  London,  1773.   Herein  we  find  the  Platonic  themes  exploited  in 
considerable  detail,  but  the  author,  writing  with  his  tongue  in  his  cheek,  in  the 
mundane  conclusion  reminiscent  of  the  style  of  Henry  Fielding,  exposes  them  as  in- 
adequate or  immature.   The  following  thumb-nail  synopsis,  in  which  I  allow  the 
novel  to  speak  for  itself,  reveals  the  Platonic  path  along  which  Agathon  marches 
to  find  himself,  at  the  end,  a  kind  of  battered  Tom  Jones. 

(1)  ELECTIVE  OR  SPIRITUAL  AFFINITIES  BRING  AND  KEEP  AGATHON  AND  PSYCHE  TOGETHER 
IN  SOUL,  IF  NOT  IN  BODY.   (I,  17-18). 

CHAP.     V.  ried  b  wiM  and  Ileep_     Agatjm  alone>   fd    tQ   farpafi  him^    bnth    b    deJicacy 

A  Difccvar.  Uh°  "fually  r°fe  by  brCak  °f  da}''  W3*   of  ftaPe»    and  'b!oom   of   complexion. 

firft  rouzed   from  fleep  by  the  rays  of  Hls  countenance,  indeed,   and   his   ap-- 

THE  rifing  fun,  announced  by  the  the  fun  gliding  horizontally  over  his  fore-  pearance,  had  fomething  in  it  which    fo 

rofy-fingered    morn,    gilded    the  head.  As  foon  as  he  had  opened  his  eyes   nearly   refembled   the   beauties  of  a  fe- 

lonian  fea  with  its  earlieft  beams,  and  he  perceived  a  young  man  before  him  in   male  form,  that  had  he  been  in  women's 

found  the  whole  crew,    who  during  the  the  habit  of  a  flave,   who  viewed  him  cloaths,  among  a  company  of  young  vir- 

night,  had  facrificed  to  Bacchus  and  his  with  great  attention.     Beautiful  as  Aga-.  gins,  he  would,  like  Horace's  favourite, 

filler  Goddefs,  ro  ufe  Virgil'%  ph/afe,  bu-  thon  was,  this  amiable  young  man  fecm-   have  eafily  impofed  upon  the  moft  accu- 


rate  obfcrver.  Agathon  furveyed  the  young 
flave  with  equal  attention,  till  the  agree- 
able furprifc  he  felt  was  infenfibly  heigh- 
tened into  extafy.  The  fame  emotions 
djfplayed  themfelves  in  the  beautiful  fea- 
tures of  the  young  flave.  Their  fouls  ac- 
knowledged each  other  at  the  fame  in- 
ftan't,  and  fecmed  to  intermix  through 
the  glances  of  their'  eyes,  before  they 
could  even  embrace,  or  their  lips,  tremb- 
ling with  rapture,  could  utter  PJyche ! 
Agathon  !  A  long  time  they  continued  fi- 
lent,  nor  is  it  in  the  power  of  language 
to  exprefs  what  they  then  felt :  And  what 


115 
life  had  they  for  words  ?  Langu«ge  be- 
comes unneccflary,  when  fouls  immedi- 
ately communicate,  perceive  and  affect 
each  other,  and  experience  more,  in  one 
moment,  than  the  tongue  of  the  mufes 
themfelves  would  be  able  to  defcribe  in 
feveral  years.  The  fun  would,  probably, 
have  pafled  unobferved  over  them,  and 
would  have  funk  into  the  ocean,  before 
the  raptures  they  -were  in  would  have 
allowed  them  to  perceive  the  fucceflion 
of  the  hours  ;  but  Agathon,  whom  it  na- 
turally became  to  be  the  firfl  to  put  an 
end  to  their  filence,    gently   difengaged 


himfelf  by  a  tender  ftruggle  from  the 
arms  of  his  dear  Pfyche,  anxious  to  learn 
by  what  accident  fhe  had  fallen  into  the 
hands  of  the  pirates.  The  time,  faid  he, 
my  deareft  PJyche  is  precious,  we  muft 
improve  thefe  few  moments,  while  thefe 
barbarians  arc  flill  at  reft,  overcome 
by  the  power  of  their  God.  Tell  me, 
by  what  means  you  were  forced  from  me, 
without  my  being  able  to  find  out  where 
you  was  conveyed,  and  how  1  now  again 
find  you,  in  this  habit  of  a  flave,  and 
under  the  power  of  thefe  pirates. 


(2)   THEIR  PLATONIC  LOVE  CHARACTERIZED.   (II,  195-198). 


Having  no 
opportunity  of  feeing  each  other  in  the 
day  time,  we  continued  our  interviews 
by  night.  Our  love  had  already  made  a 
confiderable  progrefs,  without  our  know- 
ing that  it  was  love :  we  called  it  friend- 
ship, and  enjoyed  under  this  appellation 
all  its  pure  delights,  undiflurbed  by  the 
doubts,  jealoufies,  and  other  fymptoms 
of  the  pafEon.  PJyche,  as  well  as  my- 
fclf,  had  wifhed  for  a  friend ;  we  both 
thought  we  had  obtained  our  wifh  ;  our 
turn  of  thinking,  and  the  goodnefs  of 
our  hearts,  produced  an  entire  and  unli- 
mited confidence  between  us.  As  I  had 
been  accuftomed,  for  a  confiderable  tim?, 
to  view  things  in  a  different  light  from 
the   generality  of  people  of  my  age,  I. 

beheld  not  Pfyche  as  a  beautiful  girl,  but 
as  the  mod  amiable  and  excellent  of  in- 
tellectual beings,  whofe  fpiritua!  charms 
lhone  through  the  tranfparent  veil  of  an 
earthly  covering.  On  the  other  hand, 
PJyehe,  who  thirfted  after  knowledge, 
was  never  more  happy  than  when  I  ex- 
plained to  her  the  myfteries  of  my  poeti- 
cal philofophy,  and  fancied  while  I  fpoke, 
that  fhe  heard  the  divine  Orpheus,  or  Apollo 
himfelf.  It  is  the  property  of  love, 
however  refined  and  abftracted  from  the 
fenfes  it  may  be,  to  proceed  by  gradual 
advances,  till  it  obtains  the  end  for  which 
nature  appears  to  have  defigned  it.  Such 
was  the  progrefs  ofour's,  which  gradually 
underwent  a  variety  of  changes,  though 
it  flill  continued  in  reality  the  fame.    The 


name  of  friendfhip  feemed  now  infuffi- 
cicnt  to  exprefs  what  we  felt  for  each 
other,  we  agreed  that  the  love  which 
fubfifts  between  brother  and  fifter,  ap- 
peared to  be  the  ftrongeft,  and  the  moft 
pure  of  all  the  affections  nature  hath  im- 
planted in  us.  We  were  tranfported 
with  this  idea,  and,  after  having  fre- 
quentty  regretted,  that  nature  had  depri- 
ved us  of  this  happinefs,  we  were  at  laft 
furprifed,  we  had  not  fconer  difco- 
vered,  that  it  was  in  our  power  to  form 
fuch  an  alliance  without  her  afliftance. 
Accordingly  we  commenced  brother  and 
fifler,  and  continued  this  connection  for 
fome  time,  interchanging  the  innocent 
endearments  warranted  by  thofe  names, 
without  any  infringement,  in  our  opinion 
at  le'afl,  of  the  laws  of  virtue,  which 
we  had  fivorn  to  ebferve  with  the  fame  fi- 
delity, as  thofe  of  love.  In  this  tender 
commerce  of  hearts,  our  enthufiafm  led 
us  to  imagine,  that  the  idea,  or  rather 
the  bare  pofiibility  of  our  being  fuch  near 
relations  was  the  voice  of  nature.  In  fa- 
vour of  this  illufion,  we  went  fo  far  as  to 
difcover  a  real  or  imaginary  refemblance 
in  fome  of  our  features :  but  as  we  could 
not  always  conceal  our  doubts  of  the 
certainty  of  thefe  marks  of  confanguini- 

ty,  we  found  a  flill  greater  Satisfaction  in 
indulging  the  idea  of  a  natural  relarion 
between  our  fouls,  a  fympr.thetic'  cor- 
refpondence  of  the  one  with  the  other,  an 
intimacy  already  contracted  in  fome  prior 
cxiftence  in  better  worlds ;  and  we  traced 


this  inchanting  idea  through  a  thoufand 
delightful  images.  But  the  fantaflic  turn 
of  mind,  which  our  intellectual  pafTion 
had  infpired,  did  not  flop  here ;  all  the 
powers  of  our  imagination  were  exerted 
to  the  utmoft,  in  forming  an  idea  of  the 
kind  of  love  fubfifling  between  fpiritual 
beings  in  a  celeftial  fphere  :  nothing  lefs 
than  fuch  an  idea  could  correfpond  at 
once  with  the  energy  and  purity  of  our 
fentiments,  or  be  fuitable  to  beings,  who 
derived  their  origin  from  the  heavens,  to 
ivhich  they  were  deflined  to  return.     I 

(3)  THE  CONFLICT: 

AGATHON «S  IDEALISM 
IS  ASSAULTED  BY  THE 
SOPHISTS  AND  SENSUAL- 
ISTS. (I,  170-173 j 
79-97). 

The  Sophifls,  whofe  fyftem  of  morali- 
ty is  not  founded  upon  abflract  ideas, 
but  upon  the  real  nature  and  qualities  of 

things,  take  men  juft  as  they  find  them 
in  different  places.  They  hold  a  flatcf- 
man  at  Athens,  in  no  higher  perfonal 
eflimation,  than  a  juggler  at  Perfcpolls  ; 
and  a  venerable  Spartan  matron  is  in 
their  eyes,  no  more  to  be  admired  than 
a  Lais  at  Corinth.  It  is  true,  that  the 
juggler  at  Athens,  and  the  Lais  at  Spar- 
ta would  be  hurtful  to  fociety  ;  but 
an  Arijlidcs  at  Perfepolis,  and  a  Spartan 
matron  at  Corinth,  if  they  were  not  equal- 
ly prejudicial,  would,  at  leaft,  be  entirely 
ufelefs. 


116 

The    Idealifts,    for  fo  I  ufually  call                          tAitiAs,  without  this  hope  my  cxiftcncc  would  be 

thofe  philofophers,  who  would  new  mould       I  imagined  I  was  alone.  of  little  value. 

the  world  according  to  their  ideas,  form                         Hitpias.  Hippias. 

their  difcipks  fo,  that  they  can  never  be        Any   other  -perton   in    thy    fituation  Art  thou  then  poffefied  of  fome  fecret 

confidcred  as  citizens  of  any  particular  would  have  turned  the  treedom  ot  my  for  transforming  corporeal   bodies   into 

ltate,  becaufe  their  morality  prefuppofes  houle  to  better    advantage.      And    yet,  fpiritual ;  of  fome  magic  potion  fimilar  to 

a  fyftem  of  legiflation,    which  has  never  perhaps,  1  may  not  be  the  Jeis  pleated  that,  by  which  the  Medeas  and  the  Circes 

cxifted.     They  continue  poor  and  defpif-  with    thee  tor  tnis  reierve.     .But,  let  me  of  the  poets  wrought  fo  many  wonderful 

ed,  becaufe  no  nation  confers  honours  or  alfc,  on  wnat  tuoject  thy  thoughts  were  tranfmutations  ? 

rewards  on  any  perfons,  but  thofe  who  pro-  engaged  ?  Agat'hon. 

mote  its  advantage,  or  at  leaft,  appear  to'                        Acathon,  I  do  not  underftand  thee,  Hipp'ms. 

do  fo.  They,  on  the  contrary,  are  looked       On  tne  general  tuence  around  me  ;  the  Hippias. 

upon  as  the  corrupters  of  youth,  and  the  radiance  ot  the  moon  ;   the  enchantinrr  j  wjjj  t]ien  exprcfs  rnyfelf  more  clear- 

fecret   enemies  of  fociety  ;    and  banifh-  beauties  ot  ltill  nature ;  the  air  perfumed  ]y  .  ]f  i  do  not  mifundcrftand  thee,  doft 

ment  or  a  cup  of  poifon  is  at  laft,  the  with  odoriferous  exhalations  of  flowers :  tilou  not  fancy  that  thou  alfo  art  a  fpirit 

only  reward  they   receive  for  the  thank-  a  thouland   agreeable  lenfations,    whofe  Jnclofcd  in  an  animal  body  ? 

lefs  pains  they  have  taken  to  fpiritualize  plealing  confufion  fo  totally  pollclled  my  A  g  a  t  h  o  n. 

mankind,  in  order  to  raife  them  to  the  fon\t  that  j  was  ;n  a  kind  of  extafy :  an  And  what  othev  ;dea  lhould  t  have  of 

clafs  of  ideal  exigences,  and  put  them  up-  extafy,  in  which  another  fcene  of  beau-  myfelf  > 

on  a  footing  with  mathematical  points,  t;es>  unknown  before,  prefented  itfelf  to  Hippias. 

lines  and  triangles.    More  prudent  than  my  v;evv.     Tt  vvaSj    indeed,  but   a   mo-  Are  then  quadrupeds,  birds,  fifh   and 

thefe  imaginary  Sages,  who  like  the  mufi-  ment,  yet  it  was   fuch  a  moment  as  I  infe<fts,  alfo  fpirits  inclofed  in  an  animal 

chn  of  Afpondus  play  only  for  themfelves;  would  not  have  exchanged  for  years  of  body  ? 

the  Sophifts  leave  the  citizens  to  be  infor-  the    Perfian    Monarch's   life.      (Hippias  A  g  a  t  h  o  n. 

med  of  what  is  juftor  unjuft,  by  the  laws  fmiles.)     This  led  me  afterwards  to  re-  probably  they  arc. 

of  their  refpecYive   countries.     As  they  fleet  on  the  happinefs  of  thofe  fpiritual  Hippias. 

themfelves  belong  to  no  particular  ftate,  beings,  who,  difengaged  from  their  grofs  Anj  piants  5 

they  enjoy  all  the  privileges  of  a  citizen  animal  bodies,  pafs  thoufands  of  years  in  A  g  a  t  ir  o  N. 

of  the  world  ;  and  as  they  exprefs  an  ex-  the  contemplation  of  the  intrinfic,  incor-  probably  thefe  too. 

ternal  regard  for  the  laws  and  religion  of  ruptible,  eternal   and  divine  excellence:  Hippias. 

every  nation  where  they  live,  they  by  this  years,  which  appear  of  no  longer  dura-  Thy  hopeg  then  afe  tounded  or)  mere 

means  fecure  themfelves  from   being  mc-  tion  to  them  than  a  moment  does  to  me.  probabilities.     If  it  is  probable  that  ani- 

leftcd  by  the  guardians  and  difpenfers  of  In  fuch  confideration  was  I  deeply  enga-  mals  are   not   fpiritS)  thou  probably  art 

thofe    laws.     Indeed,  they  acknowledge  gcd  when  you  furprized  me.  not   one  either;  for  ;t   is  vcry  certain, 

and    obey    no   law,    than    that   general                   Hippias  (fmiles.)  that  lhou   art    nroduced    likc   animals  . 

one  of  nature,  which  prefcribes  no  other       Art  thou  ftill  afleep,  Calhas  ?  If  not,  thou  growcit  up  as  they  do,  lubiedt  to 

rule  of  right  to  mankind,   than  that  of  thou  haft  more  talents  than  thou  haft  oc  the  lamc  wantSi  endued  with  the  lame 

their  own  advantage.     Their   natural  li-  cafion  for.     I  perceive  thou  haft  the  fa-  fenfes  and  pafllons  ;    thou  art  prelerved 

berty  is  only  confined  by  attending  to  a  culty  of  dreaming  while  awake.  in  tne  (ame  mannerj  and  dolt  propagate 

neceffary  prudence,   which  teaches  them                        A  c  A  thon.  thy  fj>ccies  and  dielt  jult  as  they  do,  and 

to  give  fuch  a  colouring,  fuch  a  turn,      There  are,  indeed,  different  kinds  of  art   turned  ,nt0  water  and  cartn  as  tnou 

and  fuch  graces  to  their  acYions,    as  -..ill  dreams,  and  the  whole  lite  ot  fome  men  waft  before  thou  watt  born.    It  thou  halt 

render  them 'moft  agreeable  to  the  perfons  feems  to  be   nothing  but  one  continual  any  advantages  over  them,  they  conhlt 

with  whom  they  are  connected.                 dream.   But  if  thefe  are  dreams,  they  are  crueny  in  a  more  beautiful  form,  in  the 

fuch,  at  leaft,  as  arc  more  pleating  to  me  being  furnifhed  with  two  hands,  which 

C     I  A  P.     VI.                       than  any  thing  I  could  have  experienced  enable  thee  to  execute  more  than  an  am- 

at  this  time,  waking.  mai  can  Wltn  nis  teet .  m  the  ltructurc 

"  l  p  p  1  A  s*  ot  certain  organs,  by  which  thou  enioyeft 

[While  a   slave     Agathon                     PerhapS  ^^  ]™&n^  t0°'  that  thw  the  powers  of  fpeech  :  and  in  a  quicker 

goes  by  the  name  of  Cal-           malt  become  one  of  thofe  fpiritual  beings  underftailding,  which  proceeds  trom  the 

11a..]                                                 whofe    happinefs    thou    doft    fo   highly  fuperior   delicacy  ot   thy   hbres,    better 

HlppIAS-                          exto1,  adapted   to   receive   impreliions:  an  un- 

/^AL  L  IAS,  thou  feemft  to  be  loft  in                         A  c  a  t  h  o  n.  derttanding,  by  which  thou  halt  learned 

W  thought.                                                     This  is,    indeed,    what  I  hope,  and  from   animals   thole   arts,  the  invention 


Dialogue  between  Hippias  and  his  Slave. 


117 

of  which  we  are  fo  proud  of.  an  uncommon  thing  to  throw  doublets.  Agathok. 

Ag.ATiio  n.  Is  it  not  then  equally  poffible  that  among       I  make  ufe  of  a  much  more  compen- 

Thy   ideas  oMiuman  nature  are  very  feverai  million  of  throws,  one  mould  at  dious  method  -to  fatisfy  rhyfelf  in  this 

different  from  mine.  laft  happen,  by  which  a  certain  number  particular.  I  fee  the  fun,  therefore  I  con- 

H  i  p  p  i  a  s.  of  grains  of  fand  fhould  form  themlelves  elude  that  it  exifts;  I  feel  my  own  felf, 

■Probably.     Becaufc  I  entertain  no  o-  '"to  a  circle  ?  The  application  is  eafily  therefore  I  'exift.  I  perceive  and  am  fen- 

ther  ideas  of  it  than  thofc  which  are  de-  made':  Able  of  the  fupremc  fpirit,  therefore  it 

rived  to  me  from  my  fenfes,  and  unprc-  Agathon.  exilts. 

judiced  obfervation.    I  will,  however,  be        I  undcrftand  thee.    Hut  (till,  it  remains  H  i  p  p  i  a  s. 

fo  indulgent  as  to  admit,  that  the  prin-  infinitely  improbable  tnat  the  rortuirnn;        A  man  in  a  dream,  in  a  delirium,  or 

ciple  which  thinks  within  us,   is  efTcn-  concourte  of  the  elements,  fhould   have  in  a  fit  of  lunacy,  fees  alfo ;  and  yet  what 

tially  different  from  the  bodv.— But,  up-  been  able-  to  produce  only  one  of  thofc  he  fees,  is  merely  ideal,,  and  has  no  real 

on  what  doft  thou  ground  thy  expedta-  fhells,  of  which  there  is  fuch  an  infinite  exiltence- 

tion,   that  this  fame  fpiritual   principle  number  upon  the  fhore :  and  even  Eter-  Agathon. 

will  continue  to  think  after  thy  body  is  nity   itfelt.    leems   not  Jong  enough   to       Bccaufe  the  fltuation  he  h  in>  does  not 

deftroyed  ?    What  proof  haft    thou   to  have  formed    our  own"  globe  in  inch  a  l*rmit  him  to  fee  things  as  they  are. 

cftablifti  an  opinion  contradicted  by  fo  manner,  although  this  is  but  a  fmall  par-  H  I  p  p  i  a  s. 

many  other  proofs  ?  I  will  not  affert  that  tide,  as  it  were,  of  the  whole  univerfe.  how   canfl.    thou     thcn    provej    that 

it  is  annihilated;  but  thy  body  lofes  by  ^  Hippias.  thou  art  not  exactly  in  the  cafe  of  the 

death  that  form  which   conftimtes   it  a        It  is  fufficient,  that  amone  the  infinite  ficfc  man  jn  tnis  particular  ?    The  phyfi- 

body :  What  reafon  haft  thou,,  therefore,  number   of   iortultous    motions,     which  cjans  w;ij  ;nform  thee,  that  'tis  poflible 

to  hope  that  thy  fpirit  will  not  alfo  lofe  produce  nothing  either  regular   or   du-  to  oe  mad  ;n  one   p0int  omV)    anci  yet 

that  particular  form  which  conftitutes  it  rable,  one  may  poflibly  happen,  by  which  be  very   fenfible    in  others,    as   all  the 

a  fpirit  ?  a  world  might  be  formed.    This  fets  one  firings  of  a   lute  may  be  well  in  tunc, 

Agathon.  probability  againft  another,    and  there-  except  one.     Ajax  in  his  fury  faw  two 

Becaufe  I  cannot  poffibly  conceive  that  fore  the  proof  upon  which  thou  ground-  funs  and  a  double  '  Thebes.     What  infal- 

the  fuft  and  fupremc  fpirit,  whofe  crea-  eft  thy  opinion  lofes  its  force.  lible  criterion  haft  thou  to  difcern  truth 

tures,  or  whofe  emanations  all  other  (pi-  A  g  a  t  h  o  n.  from  the  mere  appearance  of  it;  or  to 

rits  arc,  will  deftroy  a  being  he  has  made        Juft  as   much   as  an    infinite  weight  diftinguifh   what  thou  really   doft   per- 

capable  of  fo  much  happinefs,  as  I  have  would  lofe  of  its  heavinefs,  by  fubftract.-  ceive,  from  what  thou   only  doft  ima- 

already  experienced.  ing  from  it  a  fingle  grain  of  fand.  gine;    or  to    determine   the    difference 

Hippias.  HippiAs.  between    what     thou    art    fenfible    of, 

But  this  is  another  probably  ?  And        Thou  feemeft  to  forget  that  an  endlefs  while  in   health,  and  what  is  reprefent- 

how  doft  thou  come  to  the  knowledge  of  duration  muft  be  put  into  the  other  fcale.  ed  to    thee,    in  a  diftempered    ftate   of 

this  fupreme  fpirit  ?  However,  I  will  not  urge  this  objection  thy  body  ?    And  how  wouldft  thou    be 

Agathon.  as  far  as  it  might  e'afily  be  carried  ;  but  able  to  form  a  judgment,  if  every  fen- 

From   whence    doft   thou   know    the  of  vyhat  advantage  is  this  to  thy  opinion  ?  fation  thou  doft  experience,    were  only 

Thidias  who  made  this  ftatue  of  Cupid  ?  Probably,  the  world  has  always  been  in  a  deception,    and   if  no    object  exifted 

Hippias.  the  fame  general  difpofition  as  it  is  now  ?  in   nature,  as  thou   doft  perceive  it  ? 

Becaufe   I   faw   him   make  it;    for  a  Probably,  it  is  the  only  Being  which  ex-  Agathon 

ftatue  might,  probably,  be  formed  with-  ifts  of  itfelf?— Probably,   that   fpirit   of        j  -am    Vcry    Iitde    coricerned    alinnf 

out  the  intervention  of  an  artift.  which  thou  fpcakeft,  is  forced  by  the  ef-  that    point-     t6v  i}JppoCmR   the  fun  h 

Agathon.  fential  properties  of  its  nature  to  animate  not  in   reallty>    what  j  fce  and    Jeel    k 

How  fo  ?  the  "niverfal   fyftem   according    to   the  XQ    ^   yet  .^   eHedts    wfth   ^^  tQ 

Hibpias.  laws  of  an  immutable  ncccflitj-.— Admit-  my   fight  and  perceptl0n    are    )uit   tne 

An  accidental  concourfc  of  its  fmalleft  ting,  however,  that  the  world,  as  thou  fame .    and    that    u    Iuthdent  for    me^ 

elementary   parts,    might   in   time   pro-  The    {ntiuence    it   has  upon  my  othef 

duce  it,  conceived,  is  the  work  of  a  free  and  in-  ,eniatiOns   is  not,  therefore   the  Ids  Teal 

Agathon.  telligent  caufe,  it  may,  probably,  Owe  itd  though    it    is   not  exactly  what   it  ap- 

What !  Could  an  irregular  and  fortui-  origin  not  to  one,  but  to  many  creators,  ^ears  to  mv  fenfes,  or  even  though   it 

tous  motion  produce  a  work  of  regula-  In  a  word,  Callias,  thou  muft  get  the  bet-  aoes   not  exift  at  all# 

rity  and  art  ?  ter  of  marly  poffible  chances,  before  thou  Hippias. 

Hippias.  canft  eftablifh,  beyond  a  doubt,  the  exif-       j  fhbuld  be  plad  to  hear  what  anoh- 

Why  not  ?  In  playing  at  dice  'tis  not  tence  of  this  fupreme  fpirit.  cation  thou  wouldft  make  or  tlus  ? 


118 
A  G  A  t  H  o  N.  thine  incoherent  rhapfodies.     In  what  a    accuracy  of  judgment,    difcovers   itfelf 

The  fenfe  which  1  have  ot  the  exif-  tra;n  0f  fapcied  ideas  has  the  ljvelipefs  even  in  the  extravagancies  of  thy  ima- 
tence  ot  the  iupreme  lpint,  has  the  0f  thy  imagination  involved  thee !  Thy  gination,  and  only  requires  to  be  ap- 
fame  influence  upon  my  internal  fyftem.  £oui  js  m  a  perpetual  inchnntment,  al-  plied  to  other  objects.  A  little  doci- 
as  that  which  1  have  of  the  existence  rernately  affefted  with  tormenting  and  Htv.  and  an  ""prejudiced  examination 
of  the  lun,  has  upon  mv  corporeal  pleafing  Yearns,  and  the  true  nature  of  what  l  fha11  %  t0  thee>  are  thc 
one-  of  things    is  as    much    a    myrtery   to    only  tnlngs   neceiiary   to  cure    thee   ot 

Hipp  I  as.  thee>  as  the  vifible  form  of  the  world    that   ftrange   kind    of    phrenzy,    which 

How  fo?  5Sj  to  a.man  born  blind#     j  pity  thcej    thou  confidcrcft  as    wifdom.      Let   me 

AcATnoN.  CalUau     Thy    figure  and   quaiifications    lead    thee    down    from    thofe    invifible 

When  mv  bodv  is  indifnnfrd,  the  ent;tie  thec  t0  afpire  to  every  thing,  worlds,  into  a  vifible  and  real  one;  it 
abfence  ot  the  lun  increales  my  anxie-  vvhlch  can  re-nder  human  1Ife  happv>  will  appear  ftrange  to  thee-  at  firft, 
ty.  Thc  fun-fhine  returning  animates,  thy  pccu1;ar  turn  0f  thought  alone  will  merel>r  becaufe  it  is  new,  but  when 
enlivens,  revives' my  body,  and  I  find  ma]ce  thee  mifcrable.  A  ecu  Homed  to  once  tnou  art  familiarized  with  it, 
myfelf  either  perfectly  recovered,  or  behold  ;deai  be-ings  oniy  au  around  thou  wilt  as  little  mifs  tny  ac'ial  worlds, 
greatly  relieved.  Thc  fenfe  of  thc  all-  thee>  tbou  w;lt  never  ]earn  the  art  0f  as  a  young  man  the  toys  which  amufed 
animating  lpint  ot  the  univerfe  pro-  jy,^;^  thy  advantage  of  mankind.  h'm  m  his  infancy.  This  enthufiafm  is 
duces  jult  the  iame  effect  upon  my  Thou  °wilt  wander  aboutj  Hke  an  in-  the  offspring  of  leiiure  and  retirement, 
foul :  it  enlightens,  comforts  and  encou-  habitant  0f  the  moon>  jn  a  world  which  A  man  who  is  extremely  defirous  of 
rages  me:  it  diffipates  my  anxiety,  ft  thou  art  as  littles  acquainted  with,  as  it  agreeable  fenfations,  and  is  deprived  of 
animates  my  hope,  and  prevents  my  js  wjtb  thee  •  and  thou  wilt  never  be  the  means  of  procuripg  himfelf  real  ones, 
beine  unhappy  in  any  fituation,  which  jn  tbv  pr0per  fituation  but  in  a  defert  K  obliged  to  entertain  himfelf  with  the 
Without  it  would  be  iniupportable.  0f  ;ntbc  tub  of  Diogenes.     What  is  to    conceits  of  his  own  imagination,  and  for 

H  i  p  p  i  a  s.  be  done  wkh    a  man  who  fees  fpirituai    want    of  better  company,    to   converfe 

\  am  therefore  happier  thart  thou,  beings ,  wuh  one>  whofe  v;rtue  rcqu;rcs  w;th  the  Sylphs.  Experience  will  afford 
becaufe  all  thefe  things  are  unnecetiary  him  t0  live  jn  conftant  0ppofition  to  thee  the  bed  proof  of  this.  I  will  unfold 
for  my  happinels.  Experience  and  re-  himfelf  aild  t0  all  tbe  world  ?  with  to  thee,  the  myfteries  of  a  philofophy, 
flection  have  freed  me  from  prejudices :  onCj  who  jjts  down  hy  moon  light;  which  will  lead  thee  to  the  enjoyment 
I  enjoy  every  thing    I    wifh    for,    and  of  every  thing  good  and  agreeable,  that 

wifh  for  nothing,  which  1  have  not  the  and  reflects  upon  thc  happinefs  of  nature>  artj  fociety,  ahd  even  imagina- 
power  of  obtaining.  Care  and  anxiety  fpirits  difengaged  from  their  bodies  ?  tbn  (for-  man  u  not  made  to  be  at  a]1 
feldom  affect  me.  I  have  few  tapes,  Believe  me,  Callias,  I  am  acquainted  t;mes  wJfe^  can  procure  thee#  jf  \  am 
becaufe  I  am  content  with  the  enjoy-  with  the  world,  and  yet  I  fee  no  fpi-  not  gready  miftaken  ;n  thec>  the  voice 
ment  of  the  prefent.  My  pleafures  are  rits ;  thy  philofophy  might,  probably,  of  reafonj  whJch  thou  t|oft  nQt  fcem  to 
tempered  by  moderation,  that  I  _  may  ferve  inftead  of  fome  other  amufement,  haye  ^  hea'rd>  w;u  reca]i  tnee  from 
enjoy  them  the  longer,  and  whenever  to  divert  a.  fet  of  indolent  men;  but  the  devious  path  thou  haft  wandered  in, 
I  feel  a  pain,  I  bare  it  with  patience,  if,  is  a  folly  to  attempt  to  put  it  in  for  ;f  thou  doft  cont;nue  thy  journey  in 
as  this  is  the  fureft  method  to  fhorten  practice.  Thou  art  yet  young,  and  ^  Jdcal  lanc,  of  hop{^  thQU  wik  jn  the 
Us  duration.  the  retirement  thou  haft  lived  in  during  end>  mp  m  q±ct  advantage  than  ar. 

A  g  a  t  h  o  n,  the  earlier  part  of   thy    life,   added^  to  rIying  ^  the  ccrtalnty  of  having  dcce;ved 

Upon  what-  principle  then  doft  thou  the  Eaftern  enthufiafm,  which  fome  idle  thyfelf  ^  [$  nQw  dme  w  ^  bu£  tfae 
ground  thy  virtue  ?  What  entertains,  Grecian  adventurers  have  introduced  next  ]ejfure  morning  j  have>  fhall  be  de- 
what  animates  it?  How  doft  thou  get  amongft  us,  from  the  Egyptians  and  dicated  M  thee>  j  nccd  not  teU  thec 
the  better  of  the  obftacles  which  retard  Chaldeans,  have  given  thy  imagination  how  mUQj)  j  am  fatisfied  wkh  the  manner 
itsprogrefs?  How  doft  thou  refift  the  a  romantic  turn;  and  the  extreme  fen-  ;n  which  tl.ou  haft  difcharged  thy  office, 
temptations  which  enfnare  it,  the  con-  fibility  of  thy  frame  has  incrcafed  and  ^  wJfli  tha[  ^  furn  of  mjncl 
tagion  of  example,  and  the  tumult  of  this  agreeable  delufion :  to  people  ot  wOU,d  fo  far  agfec  wkh  m]n^  that  j 
the  paffions;  and  how  doft  thou  over-  this  caft  nothing  they  fee  is  beautiful  ^^  be  cnablcd  t0  giye  thec  thc  trucft 
come  that,  indolence  which  the  foul  fo  enough  ;    nothing    they  feel  fufficiently 

often  experiences,  whenever  it  attempts  agreeable ;  their  imagination  muft  create    proofs  of  my  friendfhip.     In  faying  this 
to  raife  itfelf  above  material  objects  ?     them    other    worlds,    to  fatisfy  the    in-    Hippias  went  away,  and  left  our  Agatlum 
H  i  p  p  i  a  s.  fatiable  defires  of  their  fouls.     But,  this   in  a  fituation  which  the  reader  will  fee 

Young  man,  too  long  have  I  heard  cvil    can    yet    be   remedied,    a    natural    in  thc  following  chapter. 


(4) 


119 

THE  BACKGROUND  OF  DANAE,  WHO  REPRESENTS  THE  SENSUAL  AND  WHO  CAUSES  AGATHON 
MOMENTARILY  TO  FORGET  HIS  PSYCHE.   (I,  217-223). 


CHAP.  III. 


Hiftory  of  the  beautiful  Danae. 

TH  E  lady,  whom  we  have  intro 
duced  to  the  acquaintance  of  our 
rejders  in  the  former  chapter,  has,  pro- 
bably, not  been  fo  difaerccable  to  many 
of  them,  but  that  thev  mould  expect  a 
more  circumltantial  account  of  her  charac- 
ter and  hiitcry.  This  expectation  of  their's 
we  mail  the  more  readily  comply  with,  as 
the  fubfequent  part  of  our  hiftory  fecms 
to  make  it  necellary,  that  the  reader 
fhould  be  enabled  to  form  a  true  judg- 
ment of  the  fair  Danae. 

It  was  the  general  opinion  at  Smyrna, 
that  me  was  the  daughter  of  the  cele- 
brated AJpaJta  of  Miletum,  who  in  her  na- 
tive country  had  carried  the  art  of  gal- 
lantry to  luch  a  degree  of  perfection,  by 
connecting  it  with  the  ltudy  of  philofo- 
phy  and  the  finer  arts,  that  flic  might 
juftly  be  confidercd  as  the  inventrels  of  it. 
Afpafia  afterwards  retired  to  Athens,  where 
flic  exerted  her  uncommon  qualifications 
with  luch  peculiar  aaureis  and  pru- 
dence, that  me  at  laft  gained  an  ab- 
folute  power  over  the  great  Pericles,  who 
ihen  ruled  over  all  Greet  e ;  or,  as  the  comic 
jpoets  of  that  age  exprefs  it,  ihe  was 
raifed  to  the  dignity  of  being  the  Juno  to 
this  Athenian  Jupiter.  Hut  the  conjec- 
tures, upon  which  the  general  opinion  of 
Danae's  birth  was  founded,  are  not  of 
Sufficient  weight  to  induce  us  to  fet  afide 
the  teftimony  of  fevcral  hiltonans,  who 
alTure  us,  that  fhe  was  a  native  of  the 
ifland  of  Scios  ;  and  that  after  havine  loft 
her  parents  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  fhe 
came  with  her  brother  to  Athens,  in  order 
to  procure  a  fubfiftence  by  her  accom- 
plifhments,  in  a  city  where  all  agreeable 
talents  met  with  lo  favourable  a  recep- 
tion. The  art,  which  fhe  here  profeffed, 
was  a  kind  of  pantonine  dance,  which 
generally  required  one  or  two  pcrfons, 
who  reprcfentcd,  by  certain  geftures  and 
attitudes  accompanied  with  the  muflc  of 
a  flute  or  lyre,  fomc  piece  felected  ei- 
ther  from  the  Grecian    mythology,  or 


from'  the  hiftory  of  one  of  their  he-  of  variety  was  a  far  ftronger  paffion  in 
roes.  But,  as  this  art,  on  account  of.  him,  than  that  which  any  woman  could 
the  number  of  thofe  who  profefTcd  it,  infpirej  fo  Danae,  after  having  for  a  con- 
was  not  fufficient  to  fupport  her,  fhe  fiderable  time  maintained  the  firfl  place 
found  herfelf  under  a  neceffity  of  fen  ing  in  his  affections,  was  at  length  obliged  to 
as  a  model  for  the  Athenian  artifts.  Be-  yield  tofome  other  favourite,  who  had  no 
fides  the  profit  fhe  derived  from  bence,  advantage  over  her,  but  novelty.  How- 
fhe  enjoyed  the  flattering  honour  of  fee-  ever  weak  the  heart  of  Danae  might  be 
ing  herfelf  placed  upon  the  altars,  either  in  fome  refpects,  it  was  not  lefs  noble  in 
as  a  Diana  or  a  Venus,  and  becoming  an  Others.  She  loved  Alcibiades,  becaufe  fhe 
object  of  admiration  among  the  connoif-  admired  his  perfon  and  his  qualities,  and 
fiurs,  and  of  adoration  among  the  peo-  therefore  took  little  care  to  fecure  her- 
ple.  It  happened,  one  day,  as  fhe  was  felf  any  advantages  from  his  fortune, 
fetting  for  a  model  of  the  Acrifian  Danae,  The  bare  remembrance  of  having  been 
that  fhe  was  furprized  by  the  young//-  loved  by  the  moft  amiable  man  of 
eibiades,  and  appeared  fo  charming  to  Ms  time,  was  all  fhe  would  have  re- 
him,  that  he  thought  no  man  inferior  to  tained  of  her  connection  with  him, 
himfelf  fhould  be  indulged  In  the  fight  had  he  not  been  as  noble  and  gc- 
of  fo  much  beauty.  On  the  other  hand,  nerous,  as  fhe,  contrary  to  the  ufual 
the  young  Danae  was  fo  flruck  with  the  cuftom  of  ladies  of  her  caft,  was  dif- 
figure,  behaviour,  rank  and  fortune  of  interefted.  I  leave  thee,  Danae,  faid 
this  lovely  feducer,   that  he  eafily  per-  ^    to  hcr>    but  I  will   not   fuffer    her, 


who*  has  once  been  the  favourite  of 
Alcibiades,  ever  to  be  under  the  necef- 
fity of  yielding  to  the  richeft  man,  what 
fhould  only  belong   to  the    moft   ami- 


fuaded    her  to   put    herfelf    under    his 
protection.     He  conducted   her    to  the 
houfe  of  Afpafia,  which  was  then  the  ren- 
dezvous of  all  the  Athenian  wits,  and  a 
kind  of  female  academy,  in  which  young  able-     In  %ing  tnIs>  he  forced  her  «> 
ladies  of  the  moft  agreeable  accomplifh-  acccPf  of  a'funi>  whIch  was  more  tha» 
merits/  under  the  infpection  of  fo  per-  Efficient  to  fret  her  from  any  apprehert- 
feaamiftrefs,  received  an  education,  which  flons  of  that  natlire"   The  dcath  of4^. 
qualified  them  to  entertain  the  great  and  and  the  clunges  confequent  upon  it,  in- 
wife  men  of  the  ftate  in  their  hours  of  ^ced'her  to  quit  Athens  in  a  few  years; 
leifure  and  retirement.     Danae  improved  and  after  fome  Ventures,  in  which  her 
fo   much    thefc  opportunities,    that   fhe   heart  had  no  fmaM  fhare>  ft-e  at  la(l  fixed 
foon    became     the     favourite,    and    at  uP°n  S,^r"a  forher  con(hnt  refidence. 
length  the  confidant  of  Afpafia,  who  far  Here.  fl,e  bccamc    aCfFa'inted  ™*    the 
fuperior  to  the  mean  jealoufy  of  com-   >'ounSer  C->rus'  whofe  excellent  qualities, 
mon   fouls,'  faw   herfelf    live    again    in   the  Pen  of  a  XtH0Pht»l  have  rendered  as 
the  perfon  of  this  young  beauty,  with  fo   wel1  kpown>  as  the- unfortunate  event  of 
much  fatisfaction,  that  the  affection  fhe   that  enferprize,  by  which  he  thought  to 
had  for  her,  probably,  gave  rife  to  the  raife  himlcIf  t0  the  thronc    of  the    firft 
report  before  mentioned.     In  the  mean    Cyras.     The    firft    fight    of    her   capti- 
time  Alcibiades  alone  reaped  the  fruit  of   Vated  the  heart  of  this  prince,  who  was 
this  education,    by   which    the  natural    fo  fenfible  of  the  force  of  thofe  charms, 
accomplifhments  of  his  lovely  friend  were   by  which  the  fcholars  of  Afpafia  were  fo 
brought  to  fuch  perfection,  that  fhe  ac-   eminently  diftinguifhed  from  thofe  living 
quired  the  name  of  the  fecond  Afpafia;    ftatues,  deftined  in  eaftern  countries  for  the 
and  the  beautiful  Danae  impofed  it  upon   pleafurcs  of  the  great;  and  which,  confi- 
herfclfas  a  duty,   to  obferve  the  ftri&eft  dering  the  only  ufe  that  is  made  of  them, 
fidelity  towards  him,  which  he  did  not  feem  to  have  little  occafion  for  a  foul, 
think  it  necelfary  to  return.     As  the  love   But,  however  flattering  this  conqueft  was 


120 


to  her,  fhe  could  not  be  prevailed  upon 
to  accompany  him  to  Sardis,  and  facrifice 
her  freedom  to  the  honour  of  being  the 
firft  of  his  flaves.     She  continued,  there- 


fore, at  Smyrna ;  and  Cyrus,  who  would  fhe  might  fpend  her  time  mod  agreeably, 
not  be  furpaffed  in  generality  by  any  She  made  ufc  of  this  fortune  fo  as  to 
Athenian,  rewarded  her  fo  liberally,  that  "keep  up  the  character  of  a  fecond  Afpafut. 
fhe  had  nothing  to  think  of,  but  how  Her  houfe  had  the  appearance  of  a  tem- 
ple of  the  Mufes,  and  Graces  .  .  .  • 


(5)   AGATHON »S  CONSCIENCE  LEADS  HIM  TO  REJECT  DANAE  AND  TO  SEARCH  FOR  PSYCHE. 
(Ill,  42-48). 


In  a  word,  hecon- 
fidered  her  now  only  as  a  woman  of  in- 
trigue, who,  in  the  point  of  view  fhe  ap- 
peared to  him  at  prefent,  had  nothing  to 
diftinguifh  her  from  others  of  the  fame 
caft,  but  that  fhe  was  more  dangerous. 

But  his  indignation  could  not  be  fo 
violent  againft  her,  without  recoiling  up- 
on himfelf.  The  idea  that  he  had  fupplied 
the  place  of  a  Htppias>  of  a  Hyacinthus, 
made  him  appear  in  his  own  eyes  as  the 
mod  contemptible  of  flaves ;  he  blufhed 
for  his  former  better  felf,  when  he  thought 
of  the  account  he  had  to  give  of  his  refi- 
dence  at  Smyrna.  Would  he,  had  Danat 
been  even  what  the  intoxication  of  his 
paflion  had  reprefented  her,  have  been 
able  to  juftify  his  conduct  before  the  tri- 
bunal of  Virtue  ?  What  could  he  then 
anfwer,  when  he  could  not  but  accufe 
himfelf,  for  having  inglorioufly  lavifhed 
away  fo  much  time  in  indolence  and  eafe, 
without  any  one  -  commendable  action : 
time,  loft  to  his  understanding,  loft  to 


virtue,  loft  to  his  own  and  to  the  public 
good  ?  And  what  rendered  the  thought 
ftill  more  infupportable  was,  that  it  had 
been  pafled  in  contemptible  efforts  to 
gratify  the  voluptuous  tafte  of  a  Danae, 
to  indulge  her  inclinations,  and  her  ima- 
gination yet  inflamed  with  the  remains  of 
the  lafcivious fire  of  her  youth.  The  re- 
proaches which  from  thefe  partial  fug- 
geftions  of  jealoufy  he  heaped  upon  him- 
felf, were  carried  as  far,  as  the  paflion  ate 
emotions  of  a  foul,  imprefied  with  a  too 
violent  but  innate  love  of  virtue,  could 
poflibly  reach.  The  anguifh,  which  in 
confequence  of  thefe  reflections  tortured 
his  mind  was  fo  fevere,  that  he  pafled  the 
whole  night  fucceeding  this  dreadful  day, 
in  violent  agitations.  A  ftale,  which 
together  with  his  prefent  difpofition  of 
foul,  may  afford  us  a  very  apt  image  of 
thofe  torments,  in  which,  according  to 
the    general    belief  of   all   people,    the 


vicious    expiate   in    another    ftate,    the 
crimes  they  have  committed  in  this. 

•  •  •  •  He  excufed  himfelf  for  having 
fo  ardently  loved  her,  as  long  as  he  had 
reafon  to  think  the  excellencies  of  her 
foul,  as  extraordinary  as  the  beauties  of 
her  perfon.  But,  fhe  loft  all  influence 
over  his  heart,  the  moment  fhe  had  for- 
feited his  eftetm.  The  refolution  of 
leaving  her  was  the  natural  confequence 
of  this  ;  a  refolution  which  did  not  coft 
him  a  fingle  figh,  fo  thorough  a  con- 
tempt did  he  now  feel  for  her.  The  re- 
collection of  what  he  had  been,  the  con- 
fcioufnefs  of, what  he  might  again  be, 
whenever  he  would,  made  it  impoflible 
for  him  to  bear  the  thought  of  being  one 
moment  longer  the  flave  of  a'fecond  Circe ; 
who,  by  a  more  fhameful  metamorphofis, 
than  any  of  thofe  which  the  companions 
of  UfyJJes  muft  have  undergone,  had 
changed  the  hero  of  virtue  into  an  effe- 
minate voluptuary. 


(6)   WHEN  AGATHON  REDISCOVERS  PSYCHE,  HE  FINDS  HER  MARRIED  TO  ANOTHER. 
EVIDENCE  PROVES  HER  TO  BE  HIS  LONG-LOST  SISTER  PHILOCLEA.   [DID 
MRS.  CHILD  RECEIVE  A  HINT  FOR  HER  PHILOTHEA  FROM  THE  HISTORY  OF 
AGATHON? ]   (  I V ,  1 80 -185 ) . 


The  Gynaecium    among  the  Greeks, 

we  know  was  commonly  as  inacceflible  to 
ftrangers,  as  the  Harem  among  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Eaft.  But  Agatlton  was  not 
treated  as  a  ftranger  in  the  houfe  of  At- 
ihytas.  This  amiable  old  man  therefore, 
after  they  had  corrverfed  together  about  a 
couple  of  hours,  which  feemed  very  fhort 
to  our  Hero,  conducled  him  in  com- 
pany with  his  two  fons  into  the  inmoft 
recefs  of  the  houfe,  where  the  female 
part  of  the  family  refided,  in  order,  as 
he  (aid.  not  to  deprive  his  dauehters  any 
longer  of  a  pleafure,  in  the  expectation 
of  which  they  had  fo  long  rejoiced..    Re- 


prefent  to  yourfelf  how.  much  he  muft 
have  been  aftoniflied,  when  the  firft  per- 
fon who  caught  his  eye  as  he  entered, 
was  his  PJyche  ! — Situations  fuch  as  thefe 
are  better  painted  than  defer ibed. — This 
apparition  was  fo  unexpected,  that  he  at 
firft  thought  himfelf  deceived  by  an  ac- 
cidental tefemblance  of  this  young  lady 
to  his  beloved  TJyche.  He  flatted;  he 
looked  at  her  again ;  and  if  he  had  even 
been  unwilling  to  truft  any  longer  to  his 
eyes,  what  pafled  in  his  heart  would  have 
been  fufEcient  to  clear  his  doubts.  Yet 
it  fcarce  appeared  credible  to  him,  that 
after  fo  long  an  abfence,  and  with  fo  lit- 


tle probability  of  ever  feeing  her  again, 
he  fhould  be  fo  fortunate  as  to  find  her 
in  the  Gynsecium  of  his  friend  at  Tarn* 
turn!  Another  thought,  which  in  thefe ch> 
cumftances  wa->  very  natural,  increafed  his 
confufion,  and  prevented  him  from  giving 
himfelf  up  to  that  joy,  which  a  fight, 
as  mucn  aenred  as  it  was  little  expected} 
diffufed  over  his  foul.  TJydie  did  not  ap- 
pear in  character  of  a  flave  in  this  houfe ; 
what  elfe  could  he  therefore  fuppofe,  but 
that  fhe  muft  be  the  wife  of  one  of  the 
Tons  of  Archytas  ?  It  is  true  indeed,  he 
might  as  well  have  imagined  her  to  be 
his  newly   difcovered  daughter;  but   in 


fbch  circumftances  our  imagination  is 
ever  led  to  fuppofe  what  we  moft  appre- 
hend. He  had  in  reality  guelTed  the  mat- 
ter at  once  ;  Ffyche.  had  been  the  wife  of 
Critokus  a  few  months. 

Our  readers  may  now  perceive,  what 
a  fine  opportunity  this  little  incident  gives 
MS  for  pathetic  defcriptions  and  tragical 
fcenes — What  a  fituation  ! — After  a  long 
and  painful'  feparation,  unexpectedly  to 
find  acrain  the  object  of  the  tendereft  af- 
fections of  his  heart,  his  firft  love  ;  but, 
then  to  find  her  again,  only  to  fee  her  in 
another's  arms,  and  what  precludes  all 
right  of  complaining,,  of  being  enraged 
or  breathing-  revenge  irr  the  arms  of 
one's  deareft  friend  ! — Luckily  for  our 
Hero  ! — and  for  the  author — the  perfons 
who  at  this  inflant  were  witnefles  of  his 
aftonifliment,  were  not  fo  p'aflionately 
fond  of  pathetic  fcenes,  as  to  be  capable 
of  taking  pleafure  in  his  torment.  They 
only  wifhed  to  have  the  fatisfattion  of 
fiwprizing  him;  but  h  would  have  been 
cruei  to  make  him  go  through  a  tragical 
fcene,  how  fortunate  foever  the  cataftro- 
phe  might  atlaft  have  turned  out.     The 


121 

tender  PJyche  beheld  his  confufion  for 
a  few  moments  ;  but  could  not  contain 
herfelf  any  longer.  She  flew  to  hira 
with  open  arms,  and  while  with  tears  of 
joy  fhe  bedewed  his  glowing  cheeks,  he 
heard  himfetf  called  by  a  name,  which 
juflified  her  tendered  carefles,  even  in  the 
prefence  of  a  huitband. 

Had  the  love  with  which  foe  infpired 
him  inr  the  groves  of  Delphos  been,  lefs 
Platonic,  the  difcovering  a  filter  in.  the 
fceloved  .of   his   heartj  would  not  have 
heea  fo  joyful  to  him  as  it  was.    But  it 
may  be  remembered,    that   their  love, 
however  infinitely  tender  it  was,  refem- 
bled  rather  that  kind  of  affection  which 
nature    excites     between    brothers    and 
fitters  of  a  fimilar  difpofition,  than  that 
which  is  founded  on  the  magic  power  of 
another  inftinct,  from  the  ardent  fymp- 
toms  of  which  their  love  had  been  al- 
ways exempt.     They  had  already  at  that 
time  found   a  particular  fatisfaction   in 
imagining,  that  their  fouls  at  leaft  were 
nearly  related  to  each  other,  though  they 
had  not  fufficient  reafons,  how  much  fo- 
ever they  mioht  wifli   it,  to   afcribe  the 


innocent  paflion  they  felt  for  each  ether, 
to  the  effect  of  the  natural  fympatby  of 
ionfanguinity.  Agathon  therefore  was 
happier  than  he  could  have  expected  to 
be,  when  after  the  explanations  that  were 
made  to  him,  he  could  no  longer  doubt 
of  recovering  in  PJyeke  a  fitter,  whom 
from  the  account  before  given  him  by  his 
father  he  fuppofed  to  be  dead.  He  was 
flill  the  more  happy,  as  bv  her  means  he 
became  connected  with  a  family,  in 
whofe  favour  his  heart  was  already  fo 
much  prepoffeffed,  that  the  thought  of 
being  ever  feparated  from  them  would 
have  become  infupportable  to  him.  Now, 
my  fair  readers,  he  wanted  nothing  more 
to  make  him  as  happy  as  a  mortal  could 
be,  than  that  Archytas  Ihould  have  fome 
amiable  daughter  or  niece,  to  whom  we 
might  marry  him.  But  unluckily  for 
him  Archytas  had  no  daughter ;  and  if  he 
had  any  nieces,  which  we  cannot  pofi- 
tively  affirm,  they  were  either  already 
married,  or  not  calculated  to  banifh  the 
image  of  the  beautiful  Dana;,  and  the 
recollections  of  his  former  felicity,  which 
grew  daily  more  and  more  lively. 


At  the  end  of  his  romance,  Wieland  enlarges  the  reader's  sympathies  for  Danae 
by  portraying  her  as  less  public  and  considerably  more  subdued  than  in  the  earlier 
scenes — possibly  even  contrite — living  modestly  in  the  neighborhood  of  Archytas, 
who  has  a  high  regard  for  her.   When,  therefore,  Agathon  and  she  are  eventually 
brought  together  through  the  agency  of  Archytas,  their  relationship  is  easily  re- 
stored, Wieland  implying  that  his  hero  is  at  last  mature — at  last  freed  from  the 
Platonic  nonsense. 

In  Philothea.  on  the  contrary,  Mrs.  Child  takes  her  Platonism  or  Idealism  seri- 
ously, making  no  concession  to  the  school  of  Aspasia,  Alcibiades,  or  even  nine- 
teenth-century Boston!   The  center  of  reality  is  patently  transcendental,  and  the 
virtue  that  is  ultimately  rewarded  is  Platonic  and  largely  non-sexual.   She  almost 
exhausts  the  machinery  of  transmigration,  intuitionism,  spiritual  reciprocity, 
dreams,  the  supernatural,  and  New  England  ethical  proprieties.   The  spirit  of  dedi- 
cation manifest  in  her  treatment  of  these  themes  constitutes  the  tone,  which  I 
here  suggest  is  the  best  criterion  for  a  "Transcendental  American  novel."   Judd's 
Margaret  reflects  a  similar  high  seriousness.   The  motif  of  "A  stone,  a  leaf,  an 
unfound  door...,"  the  expressed  and  implied  doctrine  of  the  "lapse,"  and  the  epiphany 
of  Ben  Gant's  ghost  at  the  end  of  Wolfe's  Look  Homeward.  Angel  do  the  same.    These 
three  fictional  works  taken  together,  therefore,  illustrate  the  intrinsic  criteria 
which  I  have  recommended  and,  at  the  same  time,  manifest  the  variety,  plenitude, 
and  uniqueness  which  we  must  always  grant  to  literary  works — especially  in  Roman- 
ticism anywhere! 


1   "Mrs.  Child's  'Philothea • —A  Transcendentalist  Novel?"   N  E  Q.  XVI,  no.  4  (Dec, 
1943),  648-654.   For  a  modern  text  of  this  romance,  see  A  T  p..  no.  6  (II  Quar . , 
1970). 


122 

2  Loc.  cit. .  p.  648:   "Perhaps  the  only  novel  which  has  been  clearly  and  consis- 
tently identified  with  Transcendentalism  is. . .Judd's  Margaret...."   See  my  dis- 
cussion, "The  Episcopal  Church  in  the  Romanticism  of  Sylvester  Judd, "  ESQ.  no. 
35  (II  Quar.  1964),  pp.  100-101. 

3  C.  C.  Felton,  "Emerson's  Essays."  Christian  Examiner.  XXX,  pp.  253-262  (May, 
1841).   Cf.  the  review  of  Transcendentalism  in  general  and  of  Emerson's  Nature 
in  particular  by  Felton 's  Harvard  colleague,  Francis  Bowen,  in  the  Christian 
Examiner.  XXI,  pp.  371-385  (Jan.,  1837). 

4  See  my  article,  in  the  present  issue  of  the  A  T  Q.  "Emerson,  Transcendental- 
ism and  Literary  News  in  the  Stearns  Wheeler  Papers." 

5  "Notes  on  Two  Hellenic  Romances,"  AT  Q.  no.  6  (II  Quar.  1970),  part  3,  pp. 
1-36. 

6  For  Wolfe's  spiritual  kinship  with  the  great  writers  of  the  American  Renais- 
sance— especially  Whitman — see  my  review  of  Floyd  C.  Watkins,  Thomas  Wolfe's 
Characters  from  Life  (Norman,  Okla.,  1957)  in  South  Atlantic  Bulletin,  XXIII,  no. 
4  (March,  1958),  p.  10. 


EMERSON  MANUSCRIPTS      UNGATHERED  AND  MIGRANT    (vi) 

Kenneth  Walter  Cameron 
Trinity  College 


"l  AM  REALLY  INTENDING  TO  PRINT  MY  VERSES... 
THOUCH  IT  SEEMS  LIKE  TAKING  ADVANTAGE  OF  THE  TIMES 
OF  DEARTH  WHEN  WE  BRINC...INFERIOR  FRUIT  TO  MARKET" 

49.  EMERSON,  Ralph  Waldo.   American  essayist  and  poet.  Autograuh  Letter 
Signed,  three  pages,  quarto,  Concord,  [Massachusetts],  March  30,  1846.   To 
Henry  Furness,  Philadelphia,  with  integral  address  leaf.   Fine  condition. 

$500.00 

"That  essential  point,  the  date,  the  last  day  of  grace  or  opportunity  for  the 
contributors  to  the  Diadem  -  you  have  not  named....  When  I  know... I  will  honestly 
respect  the  coming  fact,  in  my  writing  or  in  my  reviewing  of  that  which  is  written; 
and  will  either  find  you  something  passable  or  give  you  timely  notice  that  I  cannot. 
I  am  really  intending  to  print  my  verses  [his  first  volume,  Poemi,  appeared  in  1847] 
before  the  next  new  year  though  it  seems  like  taking  advantage  of  the  times  of  dearth 
when  we  bring  what  we  know  to  be  inferior  fruit  to  market   You  will  be  glad  to  know 
that  your  unpromising  correspondents,  Wiley  and  Putnam,  have  offered  what  1  consider 
pretty  good  terms  for  the  new  Carlyle  book  of  which  nearly  300  pages  arrived  by  the 
last  steamer...."   [Carlyle's  Oliver  Cromwell,  published  in  1845,  revolutionized  the 
contemporary  estimate  of  Cromwell.) 

50.  EMERSON,  Ralph  Waldo.  Autograph  Letter  Signed,  R.  W.  £.,  one  page, 
octavo,  Concord,  [Massachusetts],  November  15,  no  year.  To  Miss  Elizabeth 
Palmer  Peabody,  educator  and  author.  $150.00 

Emerson  returns  "Festus  with  thanks  for  your  kind  thought  in  sending  it  to 
me.  If  I  have  kept  it  too  long  for  a  sale,  I  have  no  great  objection  to  keeping  it 
But  if  anybody  wants  it,  let  it  go".  He  continues,  "I  will  presently  send  or  bring 
some  direction  for  the  tickets.  We  are  all  relieved  by  the  news  that  Lieutenant  Greene 
is  convalescent  May  he  live  long  and  prevail  far!..."  Elizabeth  Palmer  Peabody  in 
1839  opened  a  bookshop  in  Boston,  presumably  the  period  from  which  this  letter 
dates.  She  had  previously  been  a  student  of  Emerson  in  a  ladies'  finishing  school 
which  he  had  taught  in  after  his  graduation  from  Harvard.  In  later  years  she  became 
a  member  of  the  Transcendental  Club,  and  often  visited  Emerson  at  his  home  in  Con- 
cord. 


KENNETH  W.  RENDELL,  INC. 

62  BRISTOL  RD.,  SOMERVILLE,  MASS. 
Cat.    79    (Sept.,    1972)   — ' 


f 


o 

S  - 

>-. 

o 
o 

c    *j  -6  — 

o   £   =  - 

o 

:"'g 

E 

in 

s 

a  —    <%    3 
«  -*     .  -a 

—      C       r.        _ 

•  *J    4)  O 
O    W    C  vO 

so  © 

2.£ 

v.  2   = 

o" 

1  2  1  I 

■-  so   «   | 

OO     Q.U. 

~2  w 

V 

•o  -  £  2 

c 

'■?    S  '« 

c 

•S   "  ,,   c 

«  a> 

r3 

^       0)    TJ 

9 

c  n  at 

■3 

-o 

L. 

■c  .S    t  >> 

O  Q  4-> 

5 

—      <u     n 

53      -=      r- 

O 

a 

c 

|§5g( 

O   t-   </) 

5 

14  1- 

0 
CJ 

l&S*  1 

-      =    ? 

-=      "    O  ' 

0 

3>-    *    J    e 

=  Q.  o  ;  e 

•  3.    C 
(X        (0 

3d 

3     5  -o     : 

2  4  —  «; 

> 

«  1  2*  S 

—i  o 

w 

jj    "   J  a 

co 

•S  S  §  2  | 

4-1  14-1 

L.       C 

•/>£">£ 

d. 

J  3~  2  £ 

o 

C/2  +J 

i  .2 

T     —     E     b 

a. 

-S  if -5  1 

Nil 

g     O    ;|     O     | 

a  %  >  *> 

0)    0) 
•    U    4) 

-c    5 

>•     3  t:    u 

-J 
< 

6 
3 

O   Ol    u 
•U  OS   o 

«       a. 

X    • 

Oi    0) 

J=  r-  jC 

Eb.S 

2  fa- 

3 

V 

■  .a 
O     •' 

^       0      Q.    3 

f-=   2 

J       L.      «     O. 

O       >   "S     «J 

1  2  S"S 

e£ 

2  :=      "°  j 

^3    ^  "3.    £ 

D.00  4-> 

^  « 

i     v    3  S: 

JS 

a. 
1 

■"   S   £   S    g 

f  z&%  & 

a   a  -        g 

-5  °-«  ir-S 

i— 1  r-4 

«       c 

«<N|    o> 

z      >- 

6B 

z" 

o 

E-c   "  Si   * 

CO    «  jS 

—      a;           — 
^    ■-    o    «; 

'S 

g  J=    S-    E 

u  -    :  -5  •» 

5    >  '3  3 

os  s:  in 
S     -  in   0> 

11 

c  2  «  u 
S    3  -S  2 

W     C'HH 

H      = 

t« 

0£& 

*£      ^T 

3>    ™  2    3 

p 

•  in  i«  ce 

w  S 

iZ 

^    «  •€    o 

r-t    o    o    X 

\D  DQ  "+4    0) 

©'     o 

r^    o 

Cat.    42 

Cat.    41 

Ci 

it.    69 

[1969] 

[1969] 

[1972] 

63.  EMERSON,  Ralph  Waldo.  American  author.  Autograph  Letter  Signed,  one 
and  a  half  pages,  octavo,  Concord,  February  10,  1870.  To  Mrs.  M.  G.  W.  Dorr. 
Fine.  $125.00 


Cat.    77 


/[     "I  shall  break  my  home  keeping  habit  to  obey  your  kind  invitation  for  Tuesday;  and 
[  am  sorry  and  my  wife  is  sorry  that  she  is  in  these  days  too  much  an  invalid  to  come  with 
me.  She  sends  you  her  thanks  and  regrets." 


183 


CORRECTED  PROOF  SHEETS 


85.  EMERSON,  Ralph  Waldo.  Corrected  proof  sheets  of  his  pamphlet  en- 
titled An  Oration  delivered  before  the  Phi  Beta  Kappa  Society  at  Cambridge, 
August  31,  1837.  Twenty-four  pages,  [incomplete],  large  octavo,  second 
edition,  published  in  Boston,  1838.  Frayed  at  the  edges,  not  affecting  the 
text.  Basically  in  fine  condition.  $350.00 

Emerson  has  made  approximately  one  hundred  ink  corrections  in  the  text,  almost 
exclusively  of  punctuation.  This  oration  is  described  by  Appleton  as  "our  intellectual 
Declaration  of  Independence".  Eloquently  describing  education  and  the  scholar,  Emerson 
then  turns  to  a  protest  against  the  prevailing  practice  of  strongly  catering  to  European 
taste  and  demands  of  each  individual  man  "to  plant  himself  indomitably  on  his  instincts 
and  there  abide....  We  will  walk  on  our  own  feet;  we  will  work  with  our  own  hands;  we 
will  speak  with  our  own  minds...." 

86.  EMERSON,  Ralph  Waldo.  Autograph  Letter  Signed,  two  pages,  octavo, 
Concord,  May  27,  1861.  Fine.  $125.00 

"I  will  bring  you  the  discourse  you  ask  for,  as  I  agreed  with  Mr.  Dudly,  on  the 
next  Sunday.  Certainly  the  committee  shall  havie  it  on  the  terms  they  propose." 


83.  EMERSON,  Ralph  Waldo.  AQS,  1  p.,  oblong  8vo,  September,  1861.  As 
sings  the  pine  tree  in  the  wind/So  sings  in  the  wind  a  sprig  of  the  pine.  Fine 
condition.  $150.00 

Cat.   48    (Juna,    1970 ) 


80  EMERSON,  RALPH  WALDO.  American  nnthor.  A.I..S.,  almost  1  full  page,  Ito, 
Concord,  February  27.  1837.  To  Rev.  Henry  Achiles  at  Lowell,  with  intcsr.il  address-leaf 
in  Emerson's  ham!  and  bearing  manuscript  postal  markings.  With  an  A.L.S.  of  IIFNRY 
GEORGE.   Two  pieces (50.00) 

Interesting  letter,  written  during  the.  period  in  Emerson's  life  when  he  was  an  active 
preacher.  This  letter  offers  to  serve  as  an  exchange  minister  at  Lowell,  Massachusetts.  "If 
)..  u  will,  let  us  exchange  on  the  fourth  Sunday  of  March.  My  wife  who  means  to  visit  Mrs. 
Warren  when  I  go,  wishes  mc  to  wait  so  long.  I  have  made  an  ofTcr  of  exchange  to  Mr. 
Austin  of  Wayland  in  about  the  same  terms  you  offer  me.  If  he  should  chance  to  name 
the  fourth,  I  will  advertise  you  immediately  &  change  the  day.  At  East  Lexington,  Mr. 
Robbins  receives  the  minister  .  .  ."  (seal  tear  in  blank  portion  of  address-leaf,  otherwise 
fine).  The  accompanying  A.L.S.  of  HENRY  GEORGE,  1  full  page,  4to,  San  Francisco, 
California,  October  3,  1877,  penned  in  purple  ink,  advise*  Nathan  Appleton  that  he  "will 
take  pleasure  in  co-operating  with  you  in  any  movement  for  free  trade  ...  I  do  not  think 
it  will  be  difficult  to  organize  an  agitation  of  the  question  here  which  might  soon  make 
the  vote  of  the  Pacific  States  .  .  .  for  free  trade  ...  I  also  am  an  'out-and-out  free  trader' 
. . ."  (mounting  traces  on  verso  of  left  margin,  otherwise  fine.) 

Unusual  and  attractive  pair,  each  suitable  for  framing  or  display. 

81  EMERSON,  RALPH  WALDO.  Two  A.Ls.S.,  each  3  full  puges,  8vo,  Concord,  Mass- 
achusetts, February  9,  18ol  and  November  11,  1864.  With  a  cut  signature  and  three  por- 
traits, one  in  color.    In  all,  six  pieces. (70.00) 

Handsome  letters  about  Emerson's  lecture  tours,  penned  in  jet-black  ink.  The  1861 
letter  to  Rev.  Wheeler,  advises  that  "...  I  am  not  quite  sure  of  the  feasibility  of  reading 
to  you  the  lecture  you  refer  to:  fear  it  may  be  broken  up,  &  not  quite  reproducible  in  that 
form  it  had.  But  I  am  glad  of  the  permission  your  letter  gives.  I  will  sec  if  it  be  present- 
able: Flse,  ni3y  try  to  read  my  lecture  on  the  Crises  of  Men  ...  I  am  going  eastward  in  the 
morning  train.  &  I  think  it  will  be  prudent  ...  to  stick  close  to  the  hotel  &  railway  .  .  .** 
(in  fine  condition.)  The  1861  letter,  to  Edwin  F.  Sweet,  discusses  the  possibility  of  lectur- 
ing in  Dansville,  "...  I  am  hoping  to  go  to  Rochester,  and  thence  to  Erie,  Cleveland  and 
Toledo  and  other  towns  between  13  and  25  January  ...  I  will  write  you  and  name  the 
best  day  I  can  offer  you.  If  I  come,  the  association  shall  pay  rue  fifty  Dollars  .  .  ."  (slight 
fold  wear,  otherwise  fine.) 


W 


O 


o 

ON 


© 


I 

09    O 

•H  ©    •  C 

•C    ft43    rn 

nviO 
t-  C  «8  & 

4 

•P  C  ©  03 

SO    OS    tC 
C        -d   O 
&  C  3-P 

JC  c       c 

•P    O  t_  -H 


§ 


© 

> 


o 
o 


w 

CO 

as 


•a 

O 

o 

c 
o 
o 


CO 

Eh 


I — 

c 


O  43 
P    C    4) 

ft  © 

Pt    O  P 
©  -H 

*  P    >>     • 
09    U  rH   O 

<  ft  s  * 
to  v*r— 

••  43 

o  c  ©  c 
p  o.c  © 

^    00  43  T5 

•  V    00    00 

©  a  ©  © 
faObl  oo  u 
m       M  ft 

ft  60S 

C  O  U 
©•H  CD  11 
C  «tf  «H43 
O    Uti   0 

tt-C 

•  ©  43 

OMCt 

85  >>  O  U 


CO 

©  -P  C  >       v>> 

&  as  -h  m 

4>  +3  p^43 

t>         Oc 

>»    •  CI — 109 

n     o  ^ 

p  ©  co  <a  <6 

OP   tjl_ jg 

c  «  i 

0    •  h 
.C    •  © 

<c  > 

£  -h  —  oo  cd 

CP  H 


©  -H 
►  •P 

c 


© 


o  to 
©  «-t 
••->p 

&  C 


H  C 

o  o 

00  "~5 


(0 


© 

.C 
P 


C-P 

00  4> 
3  O 

O  C 

o 

09 

P  «H 

iC 

as 

oo 


oo 
©  o 

3.0 
^  01 


•a 

c 


•  © 

>>3-P 

*  cr1  to  f-i 

n     ©  o 

C  oj  i  © 

O  00 

O    C  V, 
O  O  fc 


•J 


09 


S& 


OS 

o 


00 

IO 
■H  <-. 

h  o 
© 

CD    C 

cg 

O   V 
43 

•d  © 

tl    © 

co        c 
rl  a  o 

•d       o 

©   bp  ^ 
CO  C  Vh 

CO  fH 

c  © 
M  o  © 

©        r-i 
©   O 


©  ©  o 

>hH43 
3rH 
O   O  C 
COO 

o  ©  .h  s: 

S  >hP43 


© 


to 
© 

© 
•  o 

00  to 

©  *Hl — 143 

O  *H    O  & 

u  a  to  m 

«J  ©  ^£ 
©  (X  © 

oo     a  ©  43 

©  >»i — IX  c 


CO 

c 

43  • 
09  U 
©  © 
rH43 
©  43 
O 

c 


U  B  W  P  <-<  ct! 


The  Aaerioasist 
ShttBkctl   Road 

RD2  Pottstown, 
Penna.  Cat*  48 
(June,  1909) 


82  EMERSON,  RALPH  WALDO.  A.L.S.,  V/x  pages,  8vo,  Concord,  February  10,  (18)  70. 
To  Mrs.  M.  G.  W.  Dorr (30.00) 

"I  shall  break  my  home-keeping  habit  to  obey  your  kind  invitation  for  Tuesday;  and 
I  am  sorry  and  my  wife  is  sorry  that  she  is  in  these  days  too  much  an  invalid  to  come 
with  me  . . ." 

Very  slight  marginal  wear,  otherwise  a  fine  example. 


\ 


Charlas  Hamilton 
Haw  York  City 
Auction  No.  23 
Doe.  12,  1967. 


124 


ROBERT  K.  BLACK,  109  LORRAINE  AVE,,  UPPER  MONTCLAIR,  N.  J.   07043. 


AFTER  HIS  DEATH 


Cat.  117,  May,  1968 


39)  EMERSON  (R.  W.)  et  al.  Mammoth  Cod  Association  of  Massachusetts 
Bay.  Pictorial  Broadside,  lp.,  8vo,  N.p.,  June  1882.  Announce- 
ment of  a  cruise  on  the  steamer  Nantasket .  The  advance  plann- 
ing is  underlined  by  the  fact  that  Emerson's  name  appears  as 
a  sponsor  although  he  had  died  on  April  27th.  This  Association 
was  the  inspiration  for  one  of  Mark  Twain's  scatalogical  and 
surreptitiously  printed  efforts.  Rare.  $55.00 


"As  Carlyle  suggested" 


Cat.  116,  Mar.,  1968 


39)  EMERSON  (R.  W.).  American  Author.  Autograph  Letter  Signed, 

lp.,  4to,  Concord,  May  29,  1839,  to  Charles  Stearns  Wheeler 
of  Harvard,  with  address -leaf .  "I  think  we  had  better  print 
the  inclosed  petition  (which  I  copied  out  of  the  Examiner) 
at  the  close  of  the  'Rahel'  article,  if  it  comes  in  time  for 
that  place;  if  not,  at  the  end  of  the  Appendix.  I  have  copied 
the  punctuation  accurately  I  concluded  on  some  considera- 
tion not  to  insert  such  a  note  as  Carlyle  suggested  the 

passage  did  not  seem  to  me  to  require  it,  and  moreover  I  think 
C.  spoke  of  it  from  memory,  &  would  not  have  said  the  same 
thing  if  it  had  been  before  his  eyes.  But  I  am  also  only  re- 
membering &  perhaps  misremembering  his  letter."  Carlyle 's 
Essays  appeared  in  4  vols,  in  Boston,  I838-9,  with  an  intro- 
duction by  Emerson.  Full-page,  scarce  in  quarto,  and  a  splen- 
did literary  association  piece.  $225.00 


"A  most  friendly  star" 


Cat.  112,  May,  1967 


50)  EMERSON  (R.  W.).  American  Author.  Autograph  Letter  Signed, 
I2PP.,  12mo,  Concord,  March  22,  1863.  Brief  but  charming. 

One  house  in  Lynn  has  long  been  a  most  friendly  star 

in' my  zodiack."  $32.50 


Carlyle  -  Emerson 

TYNDALL,  JOHN.  1820-1893.  Physicist. 
Autographed  copy  of  his  printed  address 
"On  Unveiling  The  Statue  of  Thomas  Car- 
lyle." Six  pages.  Fine  signature. 

[216A]     $45.00 

Tyndall  closed  his  eulogy  with  "It  now  becomes  my 
duty  to  unveil  and  present  to  the  British  public,  and 
to  the  strangers  within  our  gates  who  can  appreciate 
greatness,  the  statue  of  a  great  man.  Might  I  ap- 
pend to  these  brief  remarks  the  expression  of  a  wish, 
personal  perhaps  in  its  warmth,  but  more  than  per- 
sonal in  its  aim.  that  somewhere,  upon  this  Thames 
Embankment,  could  be  raised  a  companion  memorial 
to  a  man  who  loved  our  hero,  and  was  by  him  beloved 
to  the  end?  I  refer  to  the  loftiest,  purest,  and  most 
penetrating  spirit  that  has  ever  shone  in  American 
literature — to  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  the  life-long 
friend    of    Thomas    Carlyle." 


U 

O 


00 
o 


rH    M  4»  CO 

rH     ©  •  O 

•H     O  • 

Dn  h  • 

&  •+»  « 

m  m  w 

be  •  «t 

c  fj  a  X 

•h   0  e 

fr»  •  o  * 

H     Ph  4  ti 

fe    M  •  o 

tt  m  -♦» 

9   o  w 

A     O  00  O 

Eh   CJ  iH  m 


00 

OS 
O) 


to 

rH 

IS 

aJ 

X 


EMERSON,  RALPH  WALDO.  Royalty 
check  from  "Ticknor  and  Fields,"  October, 
1868  ($100.00).  Endorsed  "R.  Waldo  Emer- 
son." [86]     $35.00 


Lowell — Emerson 

LOWELL,  JAMES  RUSSELL.  A.L.S., 
one  page,  Boston,  undated.  To  R.  W.  Emer- 
son. [161]     $45.00 

"Miss  Bremer  has  promised  to  stay  a  day  longer 
and  she  and  Mrs  Kemble  are  to  dine  with  us  on 
Tuesday.      Will   you    come?"    etc. 


.J5-a§ 


©  £  e 

fj     ©;5 
ft 

*.  • 

*    . 

rg2 
«  e  » 


©  »a 
o<  -  « 
-  E 

C  CO  — 
CO  © 

UM    C 

.3* 

*<  . 
Z<oS 

K°  • 
gH    • 

••»*!■ 

in  B  SJ 

•■H    CO    £    v 


a> 


CD 

I 


06 

4 

o 


a 
o 


W 
to 

h 
aJ 

V     X 

.a  o 

© 

X 
3 

« 


©  °c:  i.  i  J 

a  v    I  a  a   to 
1o      &1    K 


-a 

■-I  a 
v 

x'Q 

So 

V  ** 
.--0 

°  o 
•OQ 
»l 

«<  %. 

V 


ft 

CO 

CO 


S.S 

•  s 
a  & 

©  B 
Cl 

s  ►.   • 

W  -    4* 

ga  o 

■    an 

>^£  "* 
£  S  fl 
E  -  © 
3-S  4» 

H  «H 

8«.   S 

iS  • w 

•    M       it!    « 

^  j-e  - 


en  5 
w  . 


•O   g 

a  " 

q  a 
OS 


!  1  * 
£•3 

eu 


I J  a  8 

\  *n  ■ 
«^  •?• 

sa     » 

;  *>  v  a 
1   O   a   2 

x  SJ  °« 
ogg     .2-8 


125 
Goodspead's   Cat.    540  Apr.,    1967 


3° 
re  io 
jo  cx> 
O  u> 


oo 


00 

re 
a, 

o 


CO 

< 


X 
eu 

>-) 
< 

z" 

o 

en 

OS 

w 

OQ  °° 
io  ^ 

(N  .5 


s 

C 
C3 


«  .5 

'C 

u  xi 

■a  nj 

- 

•a  2 


•a  « 


•5  .y 

^3 

o   o  ~ 


ca   o   to 

S  §  s 

W  ■§,  o 

s  „-§ 

*    6  u 

3  OQ 


o 


o 


CO 

J 
< 


z 

o 

OS 

i-U 

s 


O 


o 
o 
w-i 


S  S 

S  | 

ca  o 

X!  " 

0)  O 

D.  C 

i-  B 

N  1) 


ca    i> 


o   ca 


c 


3 

o 

Q 


o 

o 

o 
^r 

o 

c 

E 

"d 

re 

T3 

C 
3 

73 
i-i 

O 
■j 

a 
o 
U 


60 

re 


CO 
< 


S 

Cm 
-J 

e< 

z" 
o 
</) 

a: 
u 


o 
o 


3 
O 


X 
? 


o 
o 


to 

c 


c 
o 
U 


O 
q 


c 


00 


re 
On 

w 

Bh 

0. 

-i 

D 

o 


Q 
-J 

< 
ca 

< 
0 


«0 

a> 


Ct) 


id 


to 


H 
ct 
<3 

■»» 

c 
u 
0 

PQ 


M 
U 


CO 

J  E 


be 


o    re 

—    "5" 

9    - 

o    o 

re  ^ 

lo< 

a-   « 

3     C 
O     cu 

11 

cj  c/i 

CO 

wf.g 

<->   E 

H< 

cj  >> 

PL, 
< 

O     r 

o  s 
<  «  c 


o  -a 


o  ^ 


-^     O  H 


H    °^^ 


c 

SC   o 


»— ■     TO 


C     (3 


W    a 


2  S 


©   S 

1)    cu 


CO        . 

°* 

o  OS 

«  a 


CO 


— 

— 
c 
ed  J3 

CO 


B  Ji 

CO      i. 

O   2 

>.$ 

ca  - 

i — i  u 

•  CJ  cu 

:  o, 

>.  o 

?  -  ° 

I  su 


i    -  5  a 

»  .2    c    &c 

l     "-   -3 

;J  si 


CHECKS.    We  are  pleased  to  offer  a  selection  of  partly  printed  bank  checks,  each 
personally  signed  by  a  famous  person.    All  are  in  fine  or  better  condition. 


a.  ARTHUR,  CHESTER  A.    President.     1875. 

b.  BIDDLE,  NICHOLAS.     Pres.   Bank   U.S.    1838. 

c.  CARROLL,   CHARLES    OF   CARROLLTON.    Signer.     1830. 

d.  CLYMER,  GEORGE.    Signer.     1804. 

e.  COOL1DGE,  CALVIN.    President.    1910. 

f.  DAVIS,  JEFFERSON.    Pres.  C.S.A.     1873. 

g.  DICKENS,   CHARLES.    English   author.     1868. 

h.  EMERSON,  RALPH   WALDO.    Am.   author.     1873. 

i.  HARDING,  FLORENCE  K.    First  Lady.    1918. 

j.  HARRISON,  BENJAMIN.    President.     1886. 

k.  HARRISON,  WM.  HENRY.    Pres.  Holograph   (A.D.S.)    1834. 

1.  MADISON,  JAMES.     President.     1816. 

m.  MEREDITH,  SAMUEL.    Treasurer.     1800. 

n.  SCOTT,  SIR  WALTER.    F.,glish  poet.     1826. 

o.  STINNER,  FRANCIS  E.    Treasurer  U.S.   1849. 

p.  SUMNER,  CHARLES.    Am.  Statesman.     1872. 

q.  WEBSTER,  DANIEL.    Am.  Statesman.    1824.    Sm.   tear. 


$35.00 
$25.00 
35.00 
25.00 
15.00 
75.00 
35.00 
45.00 
10.00 
35.00 
85.00 
50.00 
10.00 
25.00 
7.50 
10.00 
10.00 


EMERSON,  RALPH  W.    A.L.S.,  2  pp.,  4to.    Concord,  Nov.   17,  1845.    To  John 
A.   Peters.  '       $125.00 

Fine  letter  declining  to  come  to  Bangor,  Maine  for  a  lecture  during  the  winter  months. 
He  writes  that  after  March  he  hopes  that  his  schedule  will  permit  him  to  visit  Bangor. 
Quarto  size  letters  of  Emerson  are  scarce! 

Catalogue  19 

PAUL  C.   RICHARDS  233  Harvard  Street,  Broohtine,  Mass.  02146  Autographs- 


Ox; 

II ,. 

«    c    -- 


s§ 


:J  u  C 
i_  s  td 
«j  •- 

Is! 


o    - 

c 


s  o 


o     .  ^ 

i.  ca  re 

U      ;  _ 

g  —  to 


Id 
«) 
0 
p 
n 

o 

o 
fj 

a) 

XI 

•♦» 

a 
e 
£ 

« 

X! 
E-i 


126 


EMERSON.    A.Ms.S.  "Nature",  2  pp.,  4to.  about   1850. 


$450.00 


Original  manuscript  poem  consisting  of  23  lines.  Rapidly  scrawled,  with  several  smudges 
and  corrections,  this  fascinating  poem  bears  the  title  of  one  of  Emerson's  most  famous  essays. 
Original  signed  manuscripts  of  Emerson  are  of  great  rarity  and  this  example  is  in  extremely 
fine  condition.    The  first  four  lines  read: 

She  is  gamesome  &  good, 

But  of  mutable  mood, 

No   dreary  repeater  now  &  again, 

She  will  be  all  things  to  all  men. 

EMERSON     A.L.S.,    2    full    pp.,    12mo,    March    13,    1873.     With    an    additional 
A.N.S.,  in  pcnril,  on   Emerson's  visiting  card.    Both   to  J.   Lorimer  Graham. 

$100.00 

In  the  letter  Emerson  declines  an  invitation  because  of  an  early  train,  and  also  excuses 
Dr.  Grimm  due  to  prior  engagements.  On  the  visiting  card,  Emerson  writes:  "Mr.  Emerson 
will  hope  to  obey  Mr.  Graham  by  visiting  at  7:30  P.M.  &  will  take  leave  to  bring  his 
friend    Herman    Grimm    of   Berlin   with    him." 


;c 


no 


c       as  to 

S  O  2  3 

tH     <0    «• 

.    t-c 

OX! 


is 

C    to 

22 


EMERSON.    Autograph  Verse  Signed,   1   p.,   12mo. 

O    what   is  friendship    but    the    fellowship 
Of  friends  that   each   can  stand  against 

the    world, 
By   its   own   meek,   but    incorruptible   will? 


PAUL  C.  RICHARDS 


233  Harvard  Street,  Brookline,  Mats.  02146 


$125.00 


^ 


«       $ 


G* 


579  EMERSON,  Ralph  Waldo.  ALS,  2pp.,  8vo,  Concord,  April  19,  1872.  Interesting  letter  to 
W.  T.  Harris.  "Until  this  hour  I  hoped  to  see  &  hear  you  on  the  morrow  at  one  or  both  houses 
to  which  I  was  summoned.  But  the  masses  have  been  cruelly  unpropitious,  &  have  put  a  penalty 
on  my  leaving  my  desk  tomorrow  which  I  cannot  meet.  I  send  the  letter  of  Stirling  which  was 
read  by  Mr.  Alcott,  Mr.  Cabot,  as  well  ^s  myself,  with  interest  &  hope  .  .  ."  65.00 

580  EMERSON.  ALS,  2pp.,  8vo,  Concord,  Sept.  17,  1868.  To  E.H.G.  Clarke  re  lecturing  in 
Syracuse.  "I  incline  to  accept  that  day,  and  unless  I  write  you  very  soon  to  the  contrary,  will 
keep  it."   With  original  envelope 65.00 


CD 


CVI 

4» 

o 


ft 

W 

4> 

n 
u 


4» 
O 


_«      ft    C 

i  D.-S3  %m 

"ft*! 


g**8 

9     35  5 

t/)tJrH  o 

°  S?  .2 


127 


Lesson  for  the  Teacher 


[ON  TEACHING  THOREAU] 


AT  six  o'clock, 
on  a  morning  in 
May,  feeling  just 
a  little  foolish,  I 
left  my  motel  in 
Concord,  Mass., 
and  drove  to  Wal- 
den  Pond.  I  guess 
I  felt  foolish  because  the  whole 
thing  seemed  so  "literary,"  self- 
conscious,  privately  dramatic,  a 
"pilgrimage."  But  looking  back  now, 
it  turned  out  to  be  one  of  the  high 
points  of  my  own  education  and  of 
my  academic  life. 

With  the  exception  of  a  white 
bathhouse  and  a  well-worn  dirt  path 
around  the  pond,  Walden  is  much 
as  it  must  have  been  when  Henry 
Thoreau  lived  there.  No  vehicles,  no 
power  boats  are  allowed.  The  only 
sounds  that  morning  were  angry 
chipmunks  and  large  mosquitoes. 

Walden  startled  me  at  first.  It's 
much  bigger  than  one  would  think. 
In  reading  Thoreau's  descriptions  of 
the  pond,  I  had  always  assumed  his 
phrases  like  "mighty  Walden"  were  _ 
affectionate  exaggeration.  Not  so. 
As  I  walked  around  the  pond,  find- 
ing the  site  of  Thoreau's  cabin,  the 
place  where  the  beanfield  must  have 
been,  the  tracks  of  the  railroad 
Thoreau  was  so  ambivalent  about, 
that  piece  of  literature,  "Walden," 
bacame  "alive"  and  real  for  me  in  a 
way  In  which  no  other  nonfictional 
piece  ever  has.  Now  I  knew  what  he 
was  "talking  about." 

As  I  rounded  a  curve,  I  came 
upon  a  girl  hunkering  down  next 
to  the  water  holding  a  piece  of 
string.  We  were  friends.  (Can't  two 
people  who  meet  at  Walden  at 
6:30  A.M.  assume  they  are  friends?) 
So  I  asked  her  what  she  was  doing 
and  she  showed  me.  On  the  end  of 
her  string  was  a  thermometer  and, 
she  said,  every  morning  she  took 
the  temperature  of  Walden  Pond. 
A  man  in  a  garage  mechanic's  uni- 
form came  with  his  small  boy  to 
fish  for  a  couple  of  hours  before 
work.  Walden  was  being  treated 
properly;  I  was  satisfied. 

After  breakfast,  the  class  I  was 
conducting  —  a  three- week  travel- 
study  course  in  Literary  New  Eng- 
land— met  in  my  room  and  we  dis- 
cussed transcendentalism  and  Tho- 
reau's life.  Then  we  went  to  Walden. 
together.  The  21  of  us  walked  half* 
way  around  Walden,  then  sat  on  the 


steep  grassy  bank  where,  under  the 
best  imaginable  educational  condi- 
tions, I  lectured  on  "Walden":  the 
cycles,  the  seasons,  the  symbolism 
of  pond  and  cabin.  It  never  sounded 
better. 

This  experience,  and  the  other  15 
days  of  the  trip,  constituted  one  of 
the  50  courses  offered  in  the  first 
year  of  the  University  of  Alabama's 
May  Interim  Term.  Under  this  pro- 
gram, any  professor  could  offer  al- 
most any  course  he  could  think  of, 
for  three  credits,  to  undergraduates, 
for  three  weeks,  provided  he.  could ! 
recruit  the  students  to  take  it.  Seri- 
ous consideration  was  given  to  what 
students  might  like  to  take,  instead 
of  what  would  be  "good  for  them." 
A  teacher  of  Russian  history  took  a 
group  to  Russia;  a  home  economics 
group  traveled  to  New  York  City  to 
the  garment  industry  and  fashion 
centers;  a  professor  who  never  was 
able  to  get  enough  Faulkner  into  his 
courses  offered  a  course  in  Faulk- 
ner and -.included  a  trip  to  Oxford, 
Miss.  The  imaginative  range  of 
much  of  the  faculty  had  increased 
many  times,  overnight. 

When  my  group  first  met  it  was 
a  shy,  cool  bunch.  Those  who  al- 
ready knew  one  another,  sorority 
sisters,  for  instance,  stuck  together. 
Teachers  often  assume  that  the  stu- 
dents know  one  another  when,  in 
fact,  the  teacher  is  the  only  com- 
mon denominator;  and  in  this  case 
the  students  came  from  all  over  the 
University  and  I  had  never  laid 
eyes  on  half  of  them. 

The  transformation  from  Individu- 
als and  small  groups  took  several 
days,  but  it  was  nearly  complete. 
The  primary  affiliation  emotionally 
became  that  group.  As  Ken  Kesey 
might  put  it,  we  were  "on  the  bus" 
and  those  who  weren't  on  the  trip 
weren't  "on  the  bus." 

My  own  relationships  to  the  stu- 
dents surprised  me.  Young,  by  aca- 
demic standards,  extroverted,  not 
especially  uptight  (as  I1  see  myself), 
I  had  always  felt  that  I  knew  a  lot 
of  students  and  knew  them  better 
than  most  teachers  did,  and  maybe 
this  was  so.  But  when  ft  boy  of  20 
or  a  senior  girl  came  up  after  three 
or  four  days  and  said  "Know  what, 
Mr.  Noble?  I'm  not  afraid  of  you  any 
more,"  it  was  a  shock.  I  didn't  know 
they  had  ever  been  "afraid" 


—DONALD  NOBLE 

Mr.  Noble  teaches  American  Liter- 
ature and  American  Studies  at  the 
University  of  Alabama. 


A  good  many  times,  I  think,  when 
a  teacher  believes  he  has  rapport 
with  students,  it  may  be  the  thin- 
nest, most  superficial  kind  of  re- 
lationship. Sure,  you  get  along, 
drink  coffee  together,  talk  about  im- 
portant things,  but  the  final  barrier 
never  comes  down.  To  the  students' 
delight,  we  occasionally  become 
teachers  who  are  human;  how  much 
better  it  would  be  if  we  were  re- 
garded as  humans  who  are  also,  by 
chance,  teachers.  On  this  trip,  I  flat- 
ter myself,  students  and  teacher 
came  to  know  one  another. 

After  we  returned  to  the  univer- 
sity and  before  the  summer  session 
began,  I  fell  to  thinking:  how  to 
continue  in  the  same  vein?  How 
could  1  manage,  In  "regular"  classes, 
to  create  the  same  kind  of  enthusi- 
asm for  the  material?  How  could  a 
class  of  students  be  brought  to  a 
state  of  harmony  and  trust  with 
one  another  and  with  me? 

It  seemed  possible,  until  I  walked 
into  my  room,  a  room  I  had  taught 
in  many  times.  At  the  front  was  a 
raised  platform,  on  the  platform  a 
desk,  on  the  desk  a  lecturn.  In 
straight  rows,  the  chairs  were  ar- 
ranged. I  mounted  the  platform, 
gripped  the  lecturn  with  two  hands 
and  looked  out. 

There  they  were,  pens  poised, 
waiting  for  the  word.  Who  had  de- 
signed that  classroom  not  10  years 
old — a  lftth  century  minister?  A 
man  who  had  never  taught?  A  man 
who  was  afraid  of  students?  The 
distance,  the  gap,  between  teacher 
and  student  isn't  merely  a  function 
of  personality,  then,  or  even  of  the 
institution,  or  "system."  In  a  case 
like  this  it  is  built  right  into  the 
physical  plant. 

Summer  school  has  been  on  for 
several  weeks  now,  and  we're  all 
settled  down.  I've  gotten  to  know 
some  of  the  students  pretty  well,  I 
think.  But  there  are  a  couple  of 
them  out  there  who  were  on  the 
trip  and,  once  in  a  while,  during  a 
lecture,  our  eyes  meet  and  their 
eyes  reassure  me  that  it's  going  all 
right,  but  they  also  tell  me  that  they 
remember  what  it  can  be  like. 


128 

TWO  THOREAU  POEMS VARIANT  READINGS 

Kenneth  Walter  Cameron 
Trinity  College 

Since  the  text  of  some  of  Thoreau's  poems  is  still  either  corrupt  or  doubtful, 
ve  should  welcome  even  small  gains  on  the  way  to  a  definitive,  explicated  text* 
Because  F,  B.  Sanborn  seems  to  hare  given  his  transcript  of  "Annus  Mirabilis"  and 
"Inspiration"  to  the  reporter  from  a  Boston  newspaper  at  the  time  he  quoted  them 
before  the  Concord  School  of  Philosophy  in  August,  1882,  and  because  several  vari- 
ant readings  are  superior  to  those  Professor  Carl  Bode  has  chosen,  I  here  reprint 
the  clipping  in  order  that  it  may  be  fully  evaluated. 


PHILOSOPHY    AT    CONCORD 

•4  JL(cl:trr  front  Jfliss  Elisabeth 
P.  Peabody. 


Childhood,  Considered  in  a  Philo- 
//i     ,  /-,  sophical  Light-.       ^ 

Jflr,  I .  II.  Sanborn^Occupies  the 
JOvening  Session. 


u 


Interesting    Readings    from    Unpub- 
lished MSS.  of  T&oream 


Tie  following  ixwutsof  Tkorean  were  read  by  Mr. 
Sanborn: 

ANSIS    MIBVBILIH. 

Thar  k  God,  who  treasons  thus  the  year, 
And  f>om«  tiu.es  kindly  planU  tu  rays, 

For  in  lilt,  winter  he's  ino&t  near. 
And  plainest  *een  upon  tbe  shortest  dart. 

Who  gently  tempers  uow  bis  b-rats   • 

And  then  LL>  iiarnher  <:old,  test  we 
Sbonld  Forfeit  on  tbe  summer"*  sweets 

Or  nine  npon  Uie  winter's  crcelty. 


A  sober  mind  will  walk  alone. 

Apart  frcia  nature,  If  need  be; 
Ami  onfy  it-  own  seasons  own 

For  nature  leaving  Its  humanity. 

Sometime*  a  late,  antninnal  thought. 
Has  croaked  my  mind  in  green  July, 

And  to  it*  early  f  re.shuess  brco^bt 
Late  rjpeued  fruits,  und  an  antnnjnal  sky. 

The  eveoirjr  of  the  year  draws  on, 

Tbe  rtel  is  a  later  Orpect  wear 
Siofe  summer's  tarr'slmePi  t*  cone, 

tome  grains  ot  night  tincture  noontide  air* 

Heboid!  the  shadow*  of  the  axes   ' 
Now  clrclj  wider  'bout  their  stem, 

Like  set-trx  j  that  by  slow  decrees 
Perform  iheir  rounds,  ge&'iy  protecting  them. 

And  a?  tin  year  doth  now  decline, 

Tbe  mt.j  tlfords  a  scantier  tignt 
B-  hind  c-acn  needle  of  tbe  riue. 

There  lark*  a  email  anxii  at  to  the  nigbt. 
•  •  .  .  .  , 

I  tear  the  eiicket's  *luinhercru«  lay, 

Aicuuri,  beneath  me,  an:  on  high, 
It  looks  fie  n'ghr,  it  lulls  the  dav; 

And  everywhere  is  nature'*  lullaby. 


l.nt  most  be  chirps  beneath  the  sod 
Where  Le  hath  made  bLs  winter  bed; 

11 1»  creak  grown  inlnter,  b:t  more  broad, 
A  film  ot  autu  u  o'er  the  rammer's  spread. 

Small  boats  in  fleets  migrating  bv 

Now  beat  across  some  raradow^s  bay; 
And  as  they  tack  nnd  veer  on  high 

\\  itb  faint  aud  hurried  click  beguile  the  way. 

•         -  •  . 

•  • 

Kni  in  t'-e  woods  tbese  coIOeo  dav* 

Some  leaf  obeys  its  MaK-r's  call, 
And  tbrongh  their  bollow  aUles  it  plays 

With  delicate  touch  the  prelude  of  tbe  All. 

Genilr  withdrawing;  from  :us:em, 

It  lightly  lays  itscdf  a'^at 
"\\  here  tie  nunc  hard  n*:h  followed  thciu, 

Re»  goed  to  sleep  npoo  tbe  old  year's  tbroug. 

The  loveliest  birch  is  brown  and  sear, 
The  furthest  pool  i;  strcwo  with  loaves. 

Which  float  upon  their  water/  blor 
Where  is  no  eye  that  see;,  no  heart  th-at  grieves. 
Concluding  this  Mr.  Sanborn  said: 


To  tbece  poetic  pictures,  prosaically  drawn,  let  me 
ndd  the  poet  uatnrali't's  c«a  chart  of  bis  upl ritual 
lite  draw u  out,  bat  uever  published  by  bim,  under 
tbe  name  ot 

IXBKB4T10A. 

Whute'er  we  leave  to  Uod,  God  does 
Annd  blesses  as, 

Tbe  work  wc  choose  sboa»d  be  oar  earn 
Oodletsaiooe.i 

If  with  light  head  erect  I  slog, 
Thoncb  all  the  muses  leod  their  force, 

From  my  noor  love  of  amtbiug 
Tbe  verse  is  weak  and  shallow  at  its  searce. 

But  if  with  bended  neck  I  grope. 

Listening  behind  uie  for  my  wit, 
With  faith  superior  to  bop*, 

More  anxious  to  keep  back  than  forward  It, 

Making  my  soul  accomplice  there 

Unto  tbe  flame  my  heart  hath  lit. 
Then  will  the  verso  forever  wear; 

Time  canuot  beud  tbe  line  winch  Go 3  bath  writ. 

Always  the  general  show  of  things 

Flouts  in  review  before  my  mind, 
And  such  true  love  and  reverence  bring 

That  sometime)  I  forget  that  I  am  uuod. 

But  now  there  comes  ansougbt,  anseea. 

Some  clear,  divine  elcctnnry, 
And  I  who  had  but  sensual  been, 

Grow  sensible,  aud  as  God  Is,  am  vary. 

I  hearing  gel,  who  had  bat  ears, 

-ind  sicbt,  who  had  but  eyes  before; 
I  moments  live  w"ho  lived  but  years. 

And  truth  discern,  who  knew  boi  learning's  lore. 


129 


I  hear  beyond  the  reach  of  sound, 

I  see  beyond  the  range  of  eight, 
Mow  earths  and  skies  and  seas  aromnd. 

And  in  niy  day  the  (an  doth  pale  has  light* 

A  clear  and  ancient  harmony, 
Pierces  my  tool  through  a'.l  its  dla, 

Ao  though  its  utmost  melody. 
Further  behind  than  they— further  within. 

More  swift  its  bolt  than  lightning-  ha. 
Its  voice  than  thunder  Is  more  load. 

It  doth  expand  my  privacies  - 
To  all,  and  leave  me  tingle  in  the  crowd. 

It  f  Deaks  with  tnch  authority, 

With  so  serent>  and  lofty  tone, 
That  iillo  lime  runs  gadding  by, 

And  leaves  me  witb.  Eteruity  alooe. 

Then  cbicflv  is  my  natal  hour, 

And  only  then  my  prime  of  Hfe. 
Of  manhood's  strength  it  is  the  Iwff, 

'Tis  peace's  end  and  war's  begixumag  strife. 

It  hath  come  in  broadest  noo-j, 
By  a  gray  wall,  or  some  chance  place; 

Unseasoned  time,  insulted  June, 
And  vexed  the  day  witb  its  preaonning  face. 

Such  fragrance  round  my  couch  is  makes, 
More  rich  than  are  Arabian  dra^r*. 

That  my  soul  scents  its  11  fo,  and  w-«£es 
The  body  up  beutath  its  pcrf  uuod  rugs. 


8ncli  Is  the  Muse,  the  heavenly  Bald, 
The  star  that  guides  onr  mort:iI  cause; 

Which  shows  where  life's  true  kernel's  laii 
Its  wheat's  fine  flower,  and  its  suxlylog  force. 

She  with  one  breath  attunes  the  sphere*, 

And  also  my  poor  human  heart. 
"With  one  impnlse  piopols  the  yewra 

Around,  and  give*  my  throbt-ir^  jpulso  Its  iUxt. 

I  will  not  daabt  forevermore 

Nor  falter  from  a  sveiidfn?t  fj>Qi, 
For  thonu'h  tr»e  *y*tem  be  turn*vJ  er'er 

God  takes  not  back  the  word  which-  once  be  saith. 

I  will  then  trust  the  love  untois. 

Which  not  my  worth  nor  \f-±zji  liaabrouzh*, 
Which  loved  me  young  and  lo^as  me  old, 

Aud  to  thht  evening  hath  me  trough*. 

Mv  memory  I'll  ediisste 

To  know  the  one  historic  trutii, 
Beuiembering  to  the  latest  d*i*. 

The  onij  true  and  sole  immortal  youth. 

Be  hot  :by  Inspiration  civen 

No  11  iter  ihionpli  what  dinger  sougbt, 
I'll  JsT-    ui  bell,  or  climb  to  heaven. 

And  jet  esteem  that  cheap  which  love  h*«  brnght. 

Fsirecmnot  tempt  the  l«ar<t 

W  ho'*  iainous  with  bis  (*o<tf 
Nor  lacrel  him  reward 

Who  bath  his  Maker's  nod-. 


£22 

i  ^^ 

d  o  ..  •« 
°  2  * 

2  8  £  t 

3  5-SS 

hit 

"a" 
—  t,y.  <d 

*■&-•» 

S*22 

&o    *  - 

•>  C  5  u 

-"  ri  5  » 
-Z2 


EMERSON'S  TALKS  WITH  A  COLLEGE 


Charles  Johnson  Woodbury 
BOY.         J, 


HILE  still  an  undergradu- 
ate, my  connection  with 
certain  lectures  delivered 
by  Mr.  Emerson  before 
the  students  of  Williams 
College  and  elsewhere 
necessarily  threw  me 
much  with  him ;  and  now 
it  is  a  youth's  experience  of  him  that  I  would 
give  to  youth. 

Well  do  I  remember  his  tender,  shrewd, 
wise  face  as  I  first  saw  it.  Almost  before  we 
were  alone  he  made  me  forget  in  whose  pres- 
ence I  stood.  He  was  merely  an  old,  quiet, 
modest  gentleman,  pressing  me  to  a  seat  near 
him,  and  all  at  once  talking  about  college  mat- 
ters, the  new  gymnasium,  the  Quarterly,  and 
from  these  about  books  and  reading  and  writ- 
ing; and  all  as  if  he  continually  expected  as 
much  as  he  gave.  And  so  it  was  ever  after ;  no 
circumstances  so  varying  but,  whether  I  saw 
him  alone  or  in  the  presence  of  others,  there 
was  the  ever-ready  welcome  shining  in  his  eyes, 
the  same  manifest  gentleness  and  persistent 
preference  of  others. 

One  day,  in  my  own  room,  glancing  up  at 
some  "  Laws  of  Writing  "  on  the  wall,  he  be- 
gan abruptly  : 

"  The  most  interesting  writing  is  that  which 
does  not  quite  satisfy  the  reader.  Try  to 
leave  a  little  thinking  for  him.  That  will  be 
better  for  both.  The  trouble  with  most  writers 
is,  they  spread  too  thin.  The  reader  is  as  quick 
as  they  ;  has  got  there  before  and  is  ready  and 
waiting.  A  little  guessing  does  him  no  harm. 
So  I  would  assist  him  with  no  connections.  If 
you  can  see  how  the  harness  fits,  he  can.  But 
make  sure  that  you  see  it.  Then  when  you  have 


something  new  to  say,  say  it !  Out  with  it ! 
Don't  lead  up  to  it  !  Don't  try  to  let  your 
hearer  down  from  it.  That  is  to  be  common- 
place. Say  it  with  all  the  grace  and  force  you 
can,  and  stop.  Be  familiar  only  with  good 
expressions. 

"  Expression  is  the  main  fight.  Search  un- 
weariedly  for  that  which  is  exact.  Do  not  be 
dissuaded.  Know  words  etymologically.  Pull 
them  apart,  see  how  they  are  made ;  and  use 
them  only  where  they  fit.  Avoid  the  adjective. 
Let  the  noun  do  the  work.  The  adjective  in- 
troduces sound ;  gives  an  unexpected  turn,  and 
so  often  mars  with  an  unintentional  false  note. 
Most  fallacies  are  fallacies  of  language.  Defi- 
nitions save  a  deal  of  debate. 

"  Neither  concern  yourself  about  consistency. 
The  moment  you  putty  and  plaster  your  ex- 
pressions to  make  them  hang  together  you  have 
begun  a  weakening  process.  Take  it  for  granted 
that  truths  will  harmonize ;  and  as  for  the  falsi- 
ties and  mistakes,  they  will  speedily  die  of 
themselves.  If  you  must  be  contradictory,  let 
it  be  clean  and  sharp,  as  the  two  blades  of 
scissors  meet. 

"Out  of  your  own  self  should  come  your 
theme  ;  and  only  thus  can  your  genius  be  your 
friend.  Eloquence,  by  which  I  mean  a  state- 
ment so  luminous  as  to  render  all  others  un- 
necessary, is  possible  only  on  a  self-originated 
subject. 

"  Don't  run  after  ideas.  Save  and  nourish 
them,  and  you  will  have  all  you  should  enter- 
tain. They  will  come  fast  enough  and  keep 
you  busy. 

"  Reading  is  closely  related  to  writing.  While 
the  mind  is  plastic  there  should  be  care  as  to 
its  impressions.    The  new  facts  should  come 


«  8  c  o 


•J 


u 

-3 

H 


S 

.£ 

<u 

3 
O 


o  — * 


a  ^ 


3  ~ 
o  -c 


<u       ,3  .3 


c   © 
rt   u> 


O 

JZ 


3    n 


•^  9 


fcJ0_3 

o  _ 

■5  S 


c  -* 

o  _o 
o  o 

in  rt 
>  ~ 
in    O 


c 

<u    .- 

jz  <« 

3 

O 


•c  o 
'■J  w 

"3  JC 


>    3 
rt    O 


3  -C 

o  y 


ho 


%o^u 


o 

-3  CO 


C 

-rs 


o 

c 
J* 


w.  ^     +-«[/: 


-C    c  "3    rt 


3    ai    3  *^    3  ,3 

S.-S  <  X  <  H 


*J      '    -3     «J 
O  'p     '->  ~ 

rt  •  5  IS  ^ 

«j  ^    ?   « 
S 

.5    iX3  3    -3 
i_    3    O    U 

r.    w  "3      ^ 


r  U 


iS^Z.  .3     >  T3 


o   <5 


5    in    in    W 
rt  •  ^    - 


o  tL 

3     V 


3  ^^  -C  ~ 

71.  ■ — ■     r-     ^     ^ 


P  o 


-3    c  ".5 

^  aj  <si 

>3    fe  rt    « 

w  tO  3 


•£  2- 

3    <U 


4= 


?■  4-.  «  -t; 

.  cl  « 

rt    ">  O   *j 

«  «  «    3 

6  1  y  „  £ 


3  D 
rt  i/) 
<D    O 


tDirt 

"3     u. 

*J    3 
OJ     O 

to 


who  wrote  about  facts  from  a  new  point  of 
view.  The  atmosphere  of  such  authors  helps 
you  even  if  the  reasoning  has  been  a  mistake. 

"  And  there  is  Darwin !  I  am  glad  to  see  him 
here.  And  you  must  read  George  Borrow's 
book  about  the  Gipsies.  He  went  among  them, 
lived  among  them,  and  was  a  Gipsy  himself. 
There  is  nothing  from  second  sources,  nor  any 
empiricism  in  his  book.  You  can  rely  upon 
everything,  and  it  is  quaintly  told.  From  such 
as  he  you  learn  not  to  stop  until  you  encounter 
the  fact  with  your  own  hand. 

"  Avoid  all  second-hand  borrowing  books — 

'  Collections  of ,' '  Beauties  of ,'  etc.  I 

see  you  have  some  on  your  shelves.  I  would  bum 
them.  No  one  can  select  the  beautiful  pas- 
sages of  another  for  you.  It  is  beautiful  for  him, 
well !  Another  thought :  wedding  your  aspira- 
tions will  be  the  thing  of  beauty  to  you.  Do 
your  own  quarrying. 

"Do  not  attempt  to  be  a  great  reader;  and 
read  for  facts,  and  not  by  the  bookful. 

"  You  must  know  about  ownership  in  facts. 
What  another  sees  and  tells  you  is  not  yours, 
but  his.  If  you  had  seen  it,  you  would  not 
have  seen  what  he  did,  and  even  less  what  he 
tells.  Your  only  relief  is  to  find  out  all  you  can 
about  it  and  look  at  it  in  all  possible  lights. 
Keep  your  eyes  open  and  see  all  you  can ;  and 
when  you  get  the  right  man  question  him 
close.  So  learn  to  divine  books,  to  feel  those 
that  you  want  without  wasting  much  time  over 
them.  Often  a  chapter  is  enough.  The  glance 
reveals  when  the  gaze  obscures.  Somewhere 
the  author  has  hidden  his  message.  Find  it,  and 
skip  the  paragraphs  that  do  not  talk  to  you." 

Upon  my  pressing  him  for  directions  more 
particular  and  practical,  a  process  which  was 
rarely  successful,  he,  after  a  moment's  hesita- 
tion, continued  as  follows : 

"  Well,  learn  how  to  tell  from  the  beginnings 
of  the  chapters  and  from  glimpses  of  the  sen- 
tences whether  you  need  to  read  them  entirely 
through.  So,  turn  page  after  page,  keeping  the 
writer's  thought  before  you,  but  not  tarrying 
with  him,  until  he  has  brought  you  to  the  thing 
you  are  in  search  of;  then  dwell  with  him,  if 
so  be  he  has  what  you  want.  But  recollect  you 
read  only  to  start  your  own  team. 

"Newspapers  have  done  much  to  abbreviate 
expression,  and  so  to  improve  style.  They  are 
to  occupy  during  your  generation  a  large  share 
of  attention."  (This  was  said  nearly  a  quarter 
of  a  century  ago.  It  was  as  if  he  saw  ahead 
the  blanket  editions.)  ■"  And  the  most  studious 
and  engaged  man  can  neglect  them  only  at 
his  cost.  But  have  little  to  do  with  them.  Learn 
how  to  get  their  best  too,  without  their  getting 
yours.  Do  not  read  them  when  the  mind  is 
creative.  And  do  not  read  them  thoroughly, 
column  by  column.  Remember  they  are  made 
for  everybody,  and  don't  try  to  get  what  is  n't 
meant  for  you.  The  miscellany,  for  instance, 
should  not  receive  your  attention.  There  is  a 
great  secret  in  knowing  what  to  keep  out  of 
the  mind  as  well  as  what  to  put  in.  And  even 
if  you  find  yourself  interested  in  the  selections, 
you  cannot  use  them,  because  the  original 
source  is  not  of  reference.    You  can't  quote 


130 

from  a  newspaper.  Like  some  insects,  it  died 
the  day  it  was  bom.  The  genuine  news  is 
what  you  want,  and  practice  quick  searches  for 
it.  Give  yourself  only  so  many  minutes  for  the 
paper.  Then  you  will  leam  to  avoid  the  pre- 
mature reports  and  anticipations,  and  the  stuff 
put  in  for  people  who  have  nothing  to  think. 

"  Reading  long  at  one  time  in  any  book,  no 
matter  how  it  fascinates,  destroys  thought  as 
completely  as  the  inflections  forced  by  exter- 
nal causes.  Do  not  permit  this.  Stop,  if  you 
find  yourself  becoming  absorbed,  at  even  the 
first  paragraph.  Keep  yourself  out  and  watch 
for  your  own  impressions.  This  is  one  of  the 
norms  of  thought.  You  will  accumulate  facts 
in  proportion  as  you  become  a  fact.  Other- 
wise you  will  accumulate  dreams.  Informa- 
tion is  nothing,  but  the  man  behind  it. 

"Yield  not  one  inch  to  all  the  forces  which 
conspire  to  make  you  an  echo.  That  is  the 
sin  of  dogmatism  and  creeds.  Avoid  them. 
They  build  a  fence  about  the  intellect. 

"  You  are  anxious  about  your  career.  I  know 
without  your  telling  me.  Every  college  boy  is. 
You  think  you  can  study  out  yourself  what 
you  are  best  fitted  for  ?  No.  But  you  remem- 
ber our  seance  with  Professor over  in  the 

chemical  laboratory  yesterday;  how  he  took 
a  substance  and  tried  it  with  others,  one  after 
other,  until  he  discovered  the  affinity  ?  So  a 
man  finds,  by  trying,  what  he  can  do  best. 
Each  man  and  woman  is  born  with  an  apti- 
tude to  do  something  impossible  to  any  other. 

"  By  working,  doing  for  others  simultaneously 
with  the  doing  of  your  own  work,  you  make 
the  greatest  gain.  That  is  the  generous  giving 
or  losing  of  your  life  which  saves  it.  Don't 
put  this  aside  until  you  are  more  at  liberty. 
That  is  slow  death.  Have  something  practi- 
cal on  your  hands,  it  makes  small  matter  what, 
at  once.  If  your  disposition  is  right  you  will 
select  well. 

"  Live  in  a  clear  and  clean  .loyalty  to  your 
own  affair.  Do  not  let  another's,  no  matter 
how  attractive,  tempt  you  away.  So,  true  and 
surprising  revelations  come  to  you,  and  ex- 
periences resembling  the  manifestations  of 
genius.  There  are  so  many  who  are  content 
to  be,  without  being  anything.  Opportunities 
approach  only  those  who  use  them.  Even 
thoughts  cease  by  and  by  to  visit  the  idle 
and "  (after  a  pause)  "  the  perverse.  But 
sudden  and  unforeseen  helps  and  continued 
encouragement  are  vouchsafed  to  the  devout 
worker.  For  God  is  everywhere,  having  his 
will,  and  he  cannot  be  baffled.  Make  his  busi- 
ness yours,  as  did  his  son.  The  man  who  works 
with  him  is  constantly  assured  of  achievement. 

"  Be  choice  in  your  friendships.  You  can 
have  but  few,  and  the  number  will  dwindle 
as  you  grow  older.  Select  minds  who  are  too 
strong  and  large  to  pretend  to  knowledge  and 
resources  they  do  not  really  possess.  They 
address  you  sincerely." 

About  poetry  he  uttered  the  following  sug- 
gestions, occasioned  by  the  criticism  of  some 
Class  Day  rhymes : 

"  I  suppose  you  read  over  your  verses  after 
they  are  written  ?  " 


J4  t>  u 

<U  J~     > 

^73  e 

>>-C    P 

| .a  UiJ 

C  o  -Q  p 

,5  '3       -*= 

•»->    O    C    *"* 

t>-.  o  """  <•« 

•£    O-TJ    © 

u    n<   P    P 
S    W    l-    u, 

°  .3    «J    3 

P    ~  -C    *j 

E  t:  rt  F 

5  c  b  j= 
■j;  'K  rt   m 

Xuti  P 
h;  >-        k 

o 


•     '    rt  p 

|  o        >■ 


W     <f> 


p  ?: 


5    2    D    o 

to, 


u 


c0 


Z»     •"•     W 

■5  £  >» 


■Jl 


p. 5 

5  o 

*o  it: 

H 


a 


m 


sis 


»-<        ~*        *\       *^ 

jj    y)    U    J 
rrt     r;  >— I 

£*f  . 

Civ.    too 
"■  -S   S 


_    P 

b  c 

--J   n 


i~    in 

>  a 
o     . 


*^    I- 
—    in 

rt£ 

■3  T3 


c  o 
*  c 

■~V,  « 

■  2   rt  rt 

—  o 

P     rt 

r,    <u  — • 

'-'■  i-.  a 


-h   «>   <u 


*-"  o  ^ 
tcrt 

<n    r* 

V     (/; 

U 

<«     C 

^3 


.2  .ess 

T3  m 

-    C  rt 
rs   rt 

.'  <1J 

o    >-  k. 

rt    o  O 

*    •  e 

c  u  _ 

o  o  5 

O      C  rt 

rt  C 


O    3 

e^F 
P   n 


.5  c 

in  t> 

C  £ 

C  cj 

O  in 

O  ^ 

u  in 

-  3 

u  £ 


">  6 


> 
-  o 

3-2 
i  ° 

S   c  o 
«    S    ^ 


o  rt 
o  "3 
C  C 

5  S 

o  c 

o  oj 

-9  o 

o  S 

II 

D   rt 


3   *j 
S  ^ 

3   ** 

>  .E 


'  i  ~  — . 


2 
"o 

o 

>-. 


bD  3    A    XdJ-C 

c  o  5  o  -2  c 
S   rt 


«< 


-  _  £  73 


rt  g 


c 


>^    * 


o 


>>3    «    - 

oJ  §  rt  §  >& 

•r  >->  c  to.  a  t3 

?  o-^.a  -— » 

2    £•  <u  «  J=  J5 

rt   u  _    •-  .. 

»-    3, 


O 
3  ru 


o 

o 


O- 


u 


T3  T  """ 
O    ""    « 

*.     H 

rt   w> 


J=    c 


3 

o . 

^  p  c 

■C    vj     .-£    Z,    5 


•s-o 


interval  of  retirement,  and  the  balance  and  se- 
renity are  restored.  A  clean  creature  needs  so 
little  and  responds  so  readily !  There  is  some- 
thing as  miraculous  as  the  Gospels  in  it.  Later 
in  life,  society  becomes  a  stimulus.  Occasion- 
ally, the  gentle  excitation  of  a  cup  of  tea  is 
needed.  A  mind  invents  its  own  tonics,  by 
»hich,  without  permanent  injury,  it  makes  rapid 
rallies  and  enjoys  good  moods.  Conversation 
Lsan  excitant,  and  the  series  of  intoxications 
it  creates  is  healthful.  But  tobacco,  tobacco  — 
irhat  rude  crowbar  is  that  with  which  to  pry 
into  the  delicate  tissues  of  the  brain !  " 

Years  after,  I  met  Mr.  Emerson  in  the  West 
and  mentioned  in  the  conversation  a  bit  of  ex- 
citing experience  among  the  Tennessee  mount- 
ains, which  drew  from  him  the  following : 

"What  tonic  can  be  more  inspiriting  and 
healthful  than  an  adventure  ?  It  gives  back  to 
the  blood  all  its  youth." 

At  a  meeting  of  one  of  our  college  debat- 
ing societies,  Mr.  Emerson  said  : 

"  I  was  interested  in  your  critic's  report. 
But  there  are  nine  of  you  here;  then  there 
should  be  nine  critics.  It  is  possible  that  you 
associate  a  wrong  meaning  with  this  word.  I 
observed  that  your  critic  noted  such  minutiae 
is  that  a  certain  word  was  pronounced  wrong; 
that  a  plural  verb  followed  a  single  nominative; 
that  a  gesture  was  made  with  the  index  finger 
instead  of  the  open  hand;  that  a  speaker  stood 

with  his  feet  six  inches  apart  instead  of  two. 
So  you  regard  the  speeches  as  so  many  targets, 
and  listen  to  pick  flaws,  to  find  faults'  and  little 
inaccuracies.  You  gain  something  in  marking 
these  things  alone,  but  you  lose  immensely 
more.  Criticism  should  not  imply  to  you  such 
a  watching  out,  for  that  begets  hostility  of 
thought,  a  closing  of  the  mind  to  the  natural 
impulsions  of  the  speech,  lest  it  be  influenced 
by  them ;  and  indulgence  in  the  silent  rehears- 
ing of  premature  rejoinders.  You  are  chiefly 
here,  I  take  it,  for  the  study  of  method,  man- 
ner, style.  Then  you  should  project  yourselves 
into  sympathy  with  the  speaker.  Make  certain 
that  you  receive  his  effort.  Receive  it  all,  and 
receive  it  well.  Put  yourself  in  his  place.  Try 
to  see  why  he  sees  as  he  does ;  and  then  pro- 
ceed outward  to  investigate  his  sentiments  and 
their  expression.  Remember  all  criticism  deal- 
ing with  isolated  points  is  superficial.  The  pre- 
vailing thought  and  disposition  are  your  main 
care. 

"  Then,  seek  what  is  characteristical.  Get  the 
method  of  the  man,  the  way  in  which  he  tries 
to  develop  and  impress  his  idea.  Attend  closely 
to  the  quality  of  the  matter  presented.  It  is  an 
index  to  the  speaker's  originality  and  culture, 
and  therefore  of  his  ability  to  impress  others. 

"When  your  attention  is  held  without  effort 
from  yourself;  when  you  are  conscious  of 
thoughtfulness,  a  change  of  opinion  working 
within — then  attend,  attend!  Your  speaker 
has  power.  Overlook  all  fault,  intonation, 
emphasis,  pronunciation.  Lay  hold  of  his 
secret.  The  genuine  impressions  of  a  speech 
are  the  thoughts  it  immediately  arouses,  and 
these  are  the  sources  of  true  critical  activity. " 


131 

I  do  not  think  of  Mr.  Emerson  as  primarily 
a  critic.  His  was  not  generally  the  posture 
indicated  by  the  word.  He  was  familiar  with 
the  laws  that  determine  excellence  of  form, 
but  sincerity  and  the  satisfaction  of  the  moral 
sense  constituted  his  criterion.  "  The  first  and 
main  attention  of  men  to  one  another  is  to  listen 
and  be  taught,"  he  said,  "  and  we  are  contin- 
ually surprised  at  the  riches  of  our  fellows." 
His  criticism  was  of  that  rarest  order,  creative 
rather  than  judicial ;  and  his  historical  and 
biographical  judgments  have  been  affected 
only  by  the  discovery  of  facts  and  perspective 
unknown  to  him.  He  always  saw  the  good  — 
a  rare  trait.    It  is  easy  to  point  out  defects. 

Mr.  Emerson  talked  apparently  without 
reservation  to  me  about  his  contemporaries 
and  historical  personages.  I  select  such  of  his 
delightful  comment  as  seems  distinguished  for 
the  consideration  of"  his  noble  young  men,"  as 
he  called  them. 

I  remember  one  afternoon  we  were  walking 
among  the  hills  of  Williamstown  in  the  locality 
known  as  Bryant's  Glen. 

"  Yonder  is  a  serious  mountain,"  said  Mr. 
Emerson,  pointing  to  Greylock.  "  I  should 
think  this  would  be  just  the  place  to  read  « The 
Excursion.'  The  hills  are  very  like  those  of 
Westmoreland.  Here  one  can  see  the  poet 
standing  on  the  shore  and  looking  off  on  the 
wide  sea-light,  and  backward  on  the  glows  of 
the  mountains,  and  then  recognizing  the  inner 
supernal  light,  the  subjective,  as  he  framed  that 
most  famed  combination : 

"  The  light  that  never  was,  on  sea  or  land, 
The  consecration,  and  the  poet's  dream. 

"  Wordsworth,"  he  continued,  "  is  the  poet 
of  England.  I  see  '  The  Reader '  lately  ac- 
knowledges it.  He  is  the  only  one  who  comes 
up  to  high- water  mark.  Other  writers  have  to 
affect  what  to  him  is  natural.  So  they  have 
what  Arnold  called  sii/ip/ism,  he,  simplicity. 

"  The  first  three  books  of '  The  Excursion  ' 
are  the  best.  The  discussions  are  uninteresting, 
but  the  adventures  of  the  wonderful  Peddler 
always  charm  me.  There  is  sometimes  an  ex- 
treme even  in  Wordsworth.  What  is  that '  hor- 
rible '  line  in  '  Peter  Bell '  ? — 

"The  hard,  dry  see-saw  of  his  horrible  bray! 

"  The  ass  is  unpoetical ;  and  perhaps  'Alice 
Fell'  is  too  childish,  a  little.  His  sonnets  are 
good.  They  are,  indeed,  as  pure,  chaste,  and 
transparent  as  Milton's.  They  are  the  witchery 
of  language.  He  is  the  greatest  poet  since 
Milton." 

Emerson  could  quote  almost  entirely  "The 
Prelude"  and  "The  Excursion,"  so  much  had 
he  pondered  them. 

"  There  are  no  books  for  boys,"  he  con- 
cluded, "like  the  poems  of  Sir  Walter  Scott. 
Every  boy  loves  them  if  they  are  not  put  into 
his  hands  too  late.  '  Marmion,' '  The  Lay  of  the 
Last  Minstrel,'  'The  Lady  of  the  Lake' — they 
surpass  everything  for  boy-reading  we  have." 

It  was  uncommon  to  hear  Mr.  Emerson 
speak  with  such  emphasis  of  any  one  as  he 


c 
a 

o 

JS 
■*-» 


rjri  2  "5 

£   g   rtTJ 

5  •  c 

O    u  •—    ••> 

sgw5 

0-5-T3   rt 
^c  £  £ 

«--5-  £ 

i_  -C  JS 


O, 


J=   •—      <yi 

**  c  -a 

•-<     <U    3 

<,  T3   O 

«»)« 
rt   3 

JS    O 

fa  £j* 

•  r<  a 
rt  «•>  ^ 

^    60  V 
>*rt  JS 

>    C    = 

«  «M 

"rt  «~     . 
c   o   <U 

To  c  .5 

•c  rt  -r 

o  -3  4> 

c  £ 

0)    3    O 

■£<£  •% 


o  s  | 

rt 
u 

5    60 

rt   V   £ 

~    3 
O 

oZf  £ 

— i 

tj  r-  — 

c 

4J 

S  o 

JS 
> 

2  c 

3  s. 

V 

.2*    C 

-^ 

i   u 
-^   o 

3-  .2 

3    crt    <r- 

< — 1 

o 

|"S8 

*£  o 

.  •-> 

c 

'**       "H      k4 

» 

2-,  <— . 

en  ~    — 

O 
-£    C 

2  2  o 

> 

2.  &  c  "3 

->          rt 

"■J 

„  o 

rt  ~ 

V. 

£  p 

o-z  — • 

— 

*— i    - 

34  S.3 

rt 
> 

3 

2  dB 

r3    r5  _rt 

lit, 
^«  E 

<y    > 

>  n  t. 

«  «  5 

.3    >nO 


rt 
O 


ego 

JJ     60-rJ 

C  O  « 
ui'O  C 
rt  rt 
?    frji 

as  c 

Ji  <"  2 

J=  60g 
60  c    E 

O   rt  ^ 


—   o 
£•5 

■B'Z 

?    O 


"2  ^ 

C/5     3    — 

O^  " 
O  ^ 
O    1) 

^  £■ rt 

!r  O 

W    4>    J-> 

>  a.  ?i 

S^  *>  -3 

>  "i    — 

°    Ji    S 


^>  7  2; 


i-   rt   ?  -^ 


1)  v; 

IL,     >,  y 

■S  o-3 


3  © 

2  ^ 

IS 

3  '~ 

~  "a 

^    in 

'5  42 


i!  « 

'.  c 

E  « 


c  u 

60.3 

•c  js 
to  y 
<  S 


rt  : 

u  «- 

O  - 

E^ 
£  c 

""  n 
p  "5! 


JS    o 


a? 


"  Dead  languages,  called  dead  because  they 
can  never  die." 

Of  Gibbon  he  spoke  strikingly  as  follows: 

"  He  is  one  of  the  best  readers  that  ever 
lived  in  England.  You  know  his  custom  of  ex- 
amining himself  both  before  and  after  his  read- 
ing a  book  to  see  what  had  been  added  to  his 
mental  experience  ?  All  previous  and  contem- 
porary British  historians  are  barefooted  friars 
in  comparison  with  Gibbon.  He  was  an  ad- 
mirable student,  a  tremendous  worker.  He  ban- 
ished himself  to  a  lonely  chateau  just  to  work 
harder.  But  he  thought  uncleanly.  He  had— 
as  also  did  Aristophanes,  whom  I  never  could 
read  on  that  account  —  an  imagination  de- 
graded and  never  assoiled,  a  low  wit  like  that 
which  defaces  out-buildings.  He  was  a  dis- 
ordered and  coarse  spirit,  a  mind  without  a 
shrine,  but  a  great  example  of  diligence  ami 
antidote  to  laziness. 

"  Locke  was  a  stalwart  thinker.  He  erected  a 
school  of  philosophy,  which  limited  everything 
to  utility.  But  the  soul  has  its  own  eyes,  which 
are  made  illuminating  by  the  spirit  of  God!" 

With  the  same  lofty  accent  he  spoke  of  Har- 
riet Martineau,  and  compared  her  attitude  with 
that  of  her  brother. 

"  It  was  a  grief  to  me  when  I  learned  that  she 
had  become  a  materialist."  After  a  long  pause 
he  added,  lifting  his  head,  "  God  ?  It  is  all 
God." 

"  Read  Chaucer,"  he  said.  "  In  a  day  you 
will  get  into  his  language,  and  then  you  will 
like  him.  Humor  the  lines  a  little,  and  they  arc 
full  of  music. 

"  I  have  seen  an  expurgated  edition  of 
Chaucer ;  shun  it !  Shun  expurgated  editions 
of  any  one,  even  of  Francois  Villon.  They  will 
be  expurgating  the  Bible  and  Shakspere  next." 

Of 'Shakspere  he  talked  much,  and  alway> 
without  a  word  of  subtraction.  Of  no  one  ek' 
did  he  speak  in  a  similar  strain  of  encomium 
excepting  that  imperial  man,  Walter  Savage 
Landor. 

"  So  far  as  we  know,"  he  said,  "  the  '  K* 
says'  of  Montaigne  is  the  only  book  Shakspere 
owned.  Like  Aristophanes,  Shakspere  had  the 
care  of  the  presentation  of  his  plays.  So  the; 
were  kept  practical.  It  has  had  much  to  c/> 
with  their  surviving. 

"  But  Shakspere  was  a  wonder.   He  struct 

twelve  every  time  " ;  and  then,  after  a  pause, 
"We  have  not  such  creatures  in  America." 
Somehow  the  words,  and  his  half-sad  man- 
ner in  uttering  them,  brought  back  to  me  old 
Nestor's  lament : 

For  not  any  time  have  I  seen  such  men,  nor  shall 
I  as  Perithous  or  Gyas,  etc. 

He  spoke  of  the  songs  of  Ben  Jonson  as 
"  the  finest  in  the  English  language.  They  are 
rich  and  succulent  and  metery.  Few  men 
have  that  wonderful  power  of  rhyming,  espe- 
cially double-rhyming,  that  he  has";  and  he 
instanced  "  The  Mask  of  Daedalus,"  and  re- 
cited four  stanzas  of  Jonson's  ode  to  himself 
in  illustration. 

Of  the  author  of  "  Noctes  Ambrosianae  "  he 
said  : 


132 

"  I  liked  him ;  not  as  Professor  Wilson,  but  as 
Christopher  North.  He  was  a  man  singularly 
loved.  Hare,  author  of  '  Guesses  at  Truth,' 
wrote  his  life,  but  it  was  incomplete.  Then 
Carlyle  attempted  it,  but  he  wrote  too  much 
with  the  air  of  a  patron,  too  much  condescen- 
sion, as  a  teacher  might  say, '  Fine  boy ! ' —  too 
much  pat-him-on-the-head  in  it.  I  wrote  Car- 
lyle I  would  rather  agree  with  Wilson  than 
himself." 

I  was  much  interested  in  his  words  on  Shelley 
and  Blake.  While  he  seemed  hesitatingly  to 
recognize  and  allow  the  wide  gleams  of  truth 
the  disciples  of  these  mystics  claim  for  them, 
he  yet  insisted  that  their  visions  were  rather  a 
curiosity  than  a  discovery ;  and  rebuked  them 
strongly  for  their  trait  of"  "  obliteration  of  the 
imagination"  by  natural  objects. 

"  I  cannot  read  Shelley  with  comfort,"  he 
said.  "  His  visions  are  not  in  accord  with  the 
facts.  They  are  not  accurate.  He  soars  to  sink." 

He  quoted  Blake's 

Tiger!  Tiger!  burning  bright, 

over  and  over,  almost  the  only  thing  I  ever 
heard  him  quote  that  he  put  into  the  "  Par- 
nassus." 

He  many  times  referred  to  Leigh  Hunt,  and 
advised  me  to  read  him — "a  true  and  gentle 
friend  to  all  men." 

Of  Matthew  Arnold  he  said  :  "  He  is  stored 
with  all  critical  faculties  except  humor,  but  so 
far  he  shows  little  of  that."  And  of  Brown- 
ing :  "  He  is  always  a  teacher." 

"  Have  you  read  any  of  Goethe  ?  "  he  asked. 

On  my  replying  affirmatively  as  to  "  Wilhelm 
Meister,"  he  said : 

"  Ah,  yes,  that  is  good.  It  wants  to  be  read 
well.  It  contains  the  analysis  of  life.  Wasson 
in  '  The  Atlantic  *  some  time  ago  had  some  ex- 
cellent words  upon  it,  more  a  panegyric  than  a 
criticism.  But  Wasson  must  have  just  come  to 
it.    We  have  loved  Meister  a  long  time." 

Of  Fichte  he  said :  "  He  would  use  any 
weapon  to  convert  a  hearer.  I  think  he  would 
trepan  a  person,  if  so  he  could  pass  his  own 
edacious  conception  into  the  bared  brain." 

I  once  asked  his  opinion  of  the  novels  of 
George  Sand,  and  he  answered  as  follows : 

"  It  is  wonderful,  the  amount  she  has  written 
—  everything ;  she  seems  to  know  the  world. 
But  her  stories  —  I  do  not  know  about  them.  I 
do  not  read  stories.  I  never  could  turn  a  dozen 
pages  in  '  Don  Quixote '  or  Dickens  without 
a  yawn.  Why  read  novels  ?  We  meet  stranger 
creatures  than  their  heroes.  What  writer  of 
stories  would  not  be  derided  if  he  gave  us  creat- 
ures as  impossible  as  Nero  or  Alva  or  Joan  of 
Arc?" 

Again,  referring  to  a  poet  then  rather  the 
fashion :  "  Melancholy  is  unendurable.  Grief 
is  abnormal.  Victor  Hugo  has  written  such  a 
book.  I  have  not  read  it.  I  do  not  read  the 
sad  in  literature." 

These  words  were  the  first  seismic  tremors 
in  my  new  heavens  and  new  earth.  They  set 
my  wits  a-swimming,  troubled  me  with  appre- 
hension of  possible  limitation  in  him.  So  the 
next  day,  with  a  youth's  temerity,  I  told  Mr. 


b 

oj 

> 


e 
a 

8  * 


■»  S3    O     m. 

GT3    0J    O 

S  ©  „  £ 

.3    £  -G    „r 

i— i   g 
.±2       I  -G 

OJ 

v.s  >  g 

rt  *-.    O    O 

.5  r*\  oj  f.  u 

K  *  2  £  &£ 

3    w    O   to    O  ffi 

rt    «    m    3X 

2    %    3    £    § 

be-  ^  12  J2 
8  s    o  J3-S 

■5  J2hW 


>> « 


"O  .£ 


OJ 

Oh 
O 
I) 

> 

oj 

OJ 

g 

O 


U 

t/5 

3 
O 
H 
OJ     - 

c.S 

oj 

bfl 


eg    _« 

<u 
B 

J3 

-C 

o  ' 

rt 

-C 

u 

^ 

3 

5^ 

u 

0 
u 

E 
o 
u 

V 

J3 

** 

a 

e 

1- 

c 

c 

C 
(J 

tyg 

M 
in 

V 

u 

a; 

'— 

C 

V 

c 

p 

oj  £ 

eg  T3 

o 

JS 

c 

"c 

■w 

£ 

4-1 

-C 

bo 

v 

IT: 

V 

B 

c 
o 

B 

s 

o 

OJ 

o 

O  •*-    _ 

3  3  «j 
rt"3  8 
o<  a.  nj 

u 

eg 

IB 

V 

c 

3 

V 

"So 

u 

c 
u 

V 

C 

c 

X 

"3  3 

.a  >> 

<U  4) 

S  6 


uo    W 


CD 
OJ  — - 


-*-*        1-4 

-G    P 

TD    OJ 


O    4J 
O 

^  o 


■"    3    G 

-  _Q    G 


3 

5  *■* 
2  ° 
•g  c 


■H   rt  •«    « 


C   1—4 

G    <U 

w  S 

G  "o 

oj  C 
^  _ 

-G  T3 
^  G 
C  <U 
a  > 

biT 
■S  SJ 

oj  3 

;  go 

'    O    [« 

o  •- 


"CG  -GT3 
"Eb  S  -rj    OJ 

£  *>!  ^ 

c  3  >vlT 
-°  °  S3 

4)    J    »    ' 
aj   u,  ^  ti 

T3   oj   c  j= 
rt    >  <G  .ti 

^^    «    > 

G 


¥   ">  S3 

?,   rt  S 

OJ  _e 

oj  o 


T30 
G 
a! 


oj 

OJ   (-4 

o  - 

Oh 


OJ  G    o 

3    oj  ■^-, 

(J  j-  <~    rt 


OJ    g 
rt   oj 


■a  ^ 

-G    o 

*-•  2 

Oh  tfi 
OJ     >-H 

y  T3 
rt   G 
3 
O 


OJ     " 

■p 

pan 

G  oj 

OJ  "^ 
4=^3 


TO      4_» 


G 


O  *-■ 

cs  c 

o  ° 

G  C 

c  oj 

W  S 


rt    to 

*    G 
-  OJ 

G  Tl 

.a  c 
«  rt 

Oh«" 

oj   G 
G    ^ 

T3    o 


-    S    OJ    O    O    G 

^  U  -S  TJ  .-3  •« 

Oh        •£    «    OhI-H 

?  o        oj 

O    OJ 


4J    ifl    j 

^™   rt   oj 
*->  is  c 

O  G3  -S    _.    OJ 
■T3  Og|- 


^  i—i  4-.  7T     ^    OJ    w 

o  M  H,  &  -G    o\,  <s 

g      •  -    OJ  "^     Oh  OJ 

™  -G    »-h  —    bO  aS  .-3 

m  ^  oj  8  -S  ■%  t 
8  brt  ;-  ch^ 
J  ro  !8>"l^  §1^ 

S3   d         >-.    O.  oj  "is  .S 


his  ambition,  he  gave  ease,  pleasure,  happiness, 
wealth ;  and  then  added  honor  and  truth.  He 
had  a  wonderful  intellect ;  but  of  what  impor- 
tance is  that  when  the  rest  of  the  man  is  gone  ? 

"  Hawthorne's  writings  are  of  the  terrible,  the 
grotesque,  and  somber.  Ther«  is  nothing  joy- 
ous in  them.  It  is  the  same  way  with  Hugo. 
No  man  ought  to  write  so. 

" wrote  a  pitiful  book  about  Napo- 
leon. But  he  was  a  wonderful  man  enough ; 
always  fell  on  his  feet.  The  best  memoirs  of 
him  are  those  of  Las  Cases.  Scott  is  too  Brit- 
ish ;  O'Meara,  the  Irish  surgeon,  writes  well  of 
him  —  a  little  low,  untutored,  rough;  but  he 
had  personal  access,  and  Napoleon  breathed 
through  all  the  men  about  him.  What  was  that 
he  said  about  making  his  generals  out  of  mud  ? 
His  meanness,  which  could  speak  no  chivalric 
word,  spoke  there,  but  it  spoke  fact." 

Of  Margaret  Fuller  he  spoke  much  at  one 
time  and  another,  but  nothing  that  teaches, 
unless  it  is  the  following: 

"  I  was  amused  with  what  she  said  of  Bettina 
Brentano — something  like  this :  '  She  has  not 
pride  enough.  Only  when  I  am  sure  of  myself 
would  I  pour  out  my  soul  at  the  feet  of  another. 
In  the  assured  soul  it  is  kingly  prodigality;  in 
one  which  cannot  forbear  it  is  babyhood.' " 

He  repeated  the  word  "  kingly  "  with  a  mus- 
ing circumflex,  as  if  another  woman  would  have 
used  a  different  gender,  and  added : 

"  But  she  would  need  to  be  certain  of  her 
lover  as  well  as  herself — which  Bettina  could 
not.  There  is  something,  too,  in*  the  lover. 
Margaret  never  met  Goethe.  She  was  a 
strange  woman.  Her  eyes  in  some  moods 
were  visible  at  night ;  and  her  hair  apparently 
lightened  and  darkened.  She  had  unconscious 
clairvoyant  instincts,  and  could  read  the  for- 
tune in  the  human  face ;  she  was  most  in- 
spired when  in  pain.  What  she  wrote  me  is 
expressive  of  her  deepest  nature : 

"  '  With  the  intellect  I  always  have,  always 
shall  overcome,  but  that  is  not  the  half  of  the 
work,  the  life,  the  life !  O  my  God  !  shall  the 
life  never  be  sweet  r*'  " 

The  flame  was  in  the  heart  of  this  dazzling 
woman.  If  Emerson  was  the  brain  of  this 
Concord  circle,  Margaret  Fuller  was  its  blood. 

Of  this  group,  the  most  conspicuous  in  its 
domain  that  has  ever  existed  in  America,  Mr. 
Emerson  was  easily  chief;  and  during  his 
strongest  years  perhaps  he  was  more.  There 
was  something  "  catching "  about  him.  No 
one  could  exactly  explain  or  even  understand 
it,  but  every  one  was  sensible  of  it,  so  that 
his  friends  in  England  and  America  felt  called 
upon  to  warn  admirers  that  they  must  be 
on  their  guard;  if  they  sought  a  familiarity 
closer  than  his  pocket  edition,  not  to  be  car- 
ried too  far,  for  he  could  not  encourage  an 
imitator.  Amusing  stories  have  been  told  of 
characteristic  exaggerations  resulting  from  too 
much  Emerson  in  the  neighborhood.  Indeed 
one  had  to  be  more  than  human  to  remain  in 
the  presence  of  such  a  nature  and  not  betray 
the  fact.  He  was  not  a  man  to  be  approached 
closely.    Nor  was  it  well  to  be  loved  by  him 


133 

too  dearly.  Thoreau  felt  the  perilous  singling 
until  his  tones  and  his  mode  of  speaking  caught 
the  trick  of  Emerson's  so  nearly  that  the  two 
men  could  hardly  be  separated  in  conversation. 
What  wonder  that  Channing,  Bartol,  Alcott, 
and  the  rest,  strong  and  stately  men  (more  than 
that — among  the  heavenliest  bodies  our  ma- 
terial new  world  has  seen),  felt  to  some  slight 
deflection  of  their  orbit  the  unintentional,  if  not 
unconscious,  attraction  of  the  mild  Jupiter  so 
near  them.  Hawthorne  and  Margaret  Fuller 
fled  and  saved  themselves,  but  even  they  be- 
trayed during  their  Concord  residence  a  faint 
Emersonian  adumbration.  The  fact  is,  no  one 
meeting  Emerson  was  ever  the  same  again.  His 
natural  force  was  so  resistless  and  so  impercept- 
ible that  it  commanded  men  before  they  were 
aware.  Leaders,  scholars  of  high  cultivation, 
theorists  and  men  of  thought  de  vieille  roche, 
who  visited  the  lonely  eminence  where  he  dwelt 
apart,  noticed  the  contagion.  Then  there  were 
others,  a  curious  throng,  themselves  often  curi- 
osities, who  came.  Concord  contained  during 
Emerson's  solstitial  years  a  great  lighthouse, 
shining  far  and  wide,  and  showing  many  ships 
their  goal,  but  covered  with  the  shreds  of 
wrecked  barks,  which  had  been  attracted  by 
its  clear,  cold,  solitary  flame. 

But  of  Thoreau,  that  hypethral  man,  I  can- 
not say  enough.  Of  no  one  did  Mr.  Emerson 
talk  so  often  and  so  tenderly.  The  relation 
adverted  to  between  the  two  needs  a  clearer 
understanding.  Emerson  made  Thoreau.  He 
was  a  child  of  Emerson,  as  it  ot  his  own  flesh 
and  blood.  The  elder  took  the  younger  fresh 
from  college  (rather  drowsy,  and  he  dozed  after 
his  return  to  Concord,  but  the  Middlesex  woods 
were  his  college) ;  Emerson  woke  him,  gave 
him  his  start,  and  immediately  and  astonish- 
ingly nourished  him. 

The  disciple  became  as  his  master,  uncon- 
sciously adopting  his  accent  and  form,  realizing 
his  attractions  and  antipathies,  and  knowing  his 
good  and  evil.  The  development  of  this  sturdy 
bud  into  its  sturdier  flower  was  a  perpetual  de- 
light to  the  philosopher.  In  Thoreau  he  lived 
himself  over  again.  He  said  he  liked  Thoreau 
because  "  he  had  the  courage  of  his  convic- 
tions," but  I  think  he  meant  his  own  (Emer- 
son's) convictions.  In  both  we  mark  the  same 
features ;  as  a  severe  and  outre  way  of  looking 
at  events  and  a  searching  for  lessons  in  them, 
intolerance  of  makeshifts,  etc. 

"  Henry  was,"  continued  Mr.  Emerson, 
"homely  in  appearance,  a  rugged  stone  hewn 
from  the  cliff.  I  believe  it  is  accorded  to  all 
men  to  be  moderately  homely.  But  he  sur- 
passed sex.  He  had  a  beautiful  smile  and  an 
earnest  look.  His  character  reminds  me  of 
Massillon.  One  could  jeopard  anything  on 
him.  A  limpid  man,  a  realist  with  caustic  eyes 
that  looked  through  all  words  and  shows  and 
bearing  with  terrible  perception !  He  was 
a  greater  Stoic  than  Zeno  or  Scaevola  or  Xe- 
nophanes ;  greater,  because  nothing  of  impu- 
rity clung  to  him,  a  man  whose  core  and  whose 
breath  was  conscience.  But  he  thought  and 
said  that  society  is  always  diseased,  and  the 
best,  most  so.    Men  of  note  would  come  to 


•    uj  I— I    <U 


c 


'0-c  u~ 


ip  ^ 

rt   B   ™   <u 
■rt    rt    in   *i 

o  ~  v  T3 

0,2-5  S 
<«  .2 

*> "°  'n  <£ 

"5  g  E  rt 

**  a  >  2 

3   rt   o   5 

S     -c  a 

rt  -t->     t~< 


c 


*-•  C 
W  S 
V    ° 

M   n 

•S  % 

•$ « 

bo-^ 
•B    O 

a  <" 

■fix 


bcrr  3 

.s  v£ 

Oh  <U    ■" 

O      >     ^ 

oj    O    O    ^ 

cS  V  g 

u,  3  t-  t3 
.O  rt  rt  C 
<~    <V    <U    ri 

v  £    O  _' 

o  r-1  ■£  o 

>~  E    in 

in   pj    B    3 
in   bcS 

~C  rt 

rt 


rt 

u  rt  rt  ^ 
-=  CLrt 
>>*    3" 

!§  «  boi: 

stria 

e£.2  5 

d  t-1    rv  rt 

O  C    3 

JZ  rt    in 


«2 
c 

V 

be 

"o 
o 


o 

e 
<u 

3 
q= 

c 


-     <U    C 
S     >     rt 

«   B 

%~ 

_G    « 

J3 

i— i  *3 

v  i— 

o 


+J     4->       kH       rH 

■S  -c  rt  r 
<21  bo  <u  >. 


% 


V 


c  a 

o  3 
ve  rt 

rt   c 


3  o 

V  T3 


1) 


'>  P-a 
u  Si  c 


o    . 

«.! 

.2  -b 

Vi    bo 
3    C 


.5  >h  jc 
>  D  « 

_   n   rt 
O 


h->  HH 


\t 


0      0^H 

^  "O  x;      .  *- 

«"  u  w  £  c 
J=<3  c.2'" 

C    G    a    3    3 
(U  W     Ih 

-c  45  -c  2i  rt 
^  ^  "  .5  o 

—  ^  bog.S 

^    1>    o    >>^ 
rt  j-;    h    rt  *- 

»  «  ^  -oJ  u 

*j  bo     -a  i* 

•£•3  *  zS 

rt    d,  °    ^ 

jU    3    m  .3    Oh 


2..S      J2  9S  w-S  S  >  rt 


rt 


Oh 

rt 

-3 


E 


3 
O 
>% 

3-22 

' .  <u  „ 

Oh^   ?•£ 

-  O   3     „ 

rt  X    ^.S 

«    3°g< 
J=    O 

-  BO. 

£ r » *"  .j 

o  4)  2.<2 

B  jQ    B    o 


T3  ~- 
>h    in 

rt    „. 
>  42 

rt   O 

> 


MH 


'3   <-"  "3     "     " 


0 

rt        +_» 

O 
E 

T3 

•3 

V 

H-» 

rt 
_B 

4= 

bo 
3 
O 
.E 

U3 

>^ 

rt 


.3^3 

^      3  ^ 
3^  -      C  s 


bo  O 

B    > 
•■C  « 

3    c 
73    « 

bo'71 

B  " 
O    (J 

1>    bO 
en    0) 

3X! 
iU    tn 

"'£    . 

rt    en 

2^ 


you  have  an  opportunity  you  had  better  ex- 
amine this ! '  And  he  presented  a  fine  speci- 
men from  which  he  finished  disengaging  the 
earth-rust.  An  accident  ?  I  do  not  know. 
Sometimes  I  think  the  entire  woods  were  a 
cache  for  him,  he  had  such  secrets  of  hiding 
things  and  finding  them  again." 

As  Thoreau  exhibited  Emerson  the  recluse, 
so  Amos  Bronson  Alcott,  a  most  benign, 
saintly,  and  unworldly  man  when  I  knew  him, 
was  a  joyous,  buoyant  embodiment  of  Mr.  Em- 
erson socially.  For  Emerson  was  not  what  one 
would  term  "talkative."     Indeed  it  is  seldom 

one  meets  a  man  more  held  in  duress  by  his  own 
thought.  When  he  was  surprised  into  utter- 
ance, it  was  mostly  a  monologue  of  oral  reflec- 
tions which  seemed  to  be  addressed  to  a  widely 
read  and  thoughtful  audience,  and  which  al- 
ways exacted  much  of  the  listener.  It  is  some- 
what remarkable  that  a  man  who  has  given 
more  movement  to  thought  than  almost  any 
other  since  Plato  should  have  shown  in  habit 
so  little  sympathy  with  this  law  by  which  men 
most  naturally  receive  ideas.  But  I  think  he 
secretly  found  irksome  the  simplest  conditions 
under  which  people  meet. 

Mr.  Alcott  had  a  much  more  extended 
adaptiveness.  He  founded  the  parlor  conver- 
sation as  a  means  of  culture. 


134 

Faith  in  man  and  man's  final  victory  was 
Mr.  Emerson's  evangel.  His  transcendental- 
ism is  to  be  regarded  as  a  fragment  existing 
less  as  a  religious  idiosyncrasy,  much  less  a 
passing  fashion,  than  as  a  lifting  and  permanent 
force  in  general  religious  culture.  As  a  modi- 
fying influence  in  thought,  as  an  impulse  to- 
wards a  finer  life,  it  has  become  a  power.  Its 
subtle  suggestions,  its  aspirations ;  that  which 
it  stood  for  and  symbolized  ;  its  exultant,  soar- 
ing spirit — these  gave  it  meaning  to  every  ele- 
vated soul  drawn  into  it.  Where  it  touched 
the  practical  duties  of  life  its  touch  was  recog- 
nized as  honest.  Mr.  Emerson's  language  often 
identified  God  incarnate  with  man  perfected. 
The  future  was  serene.  Almost  the  last  words  I 
was  ever  to  hear  him  utter  were  with  a  smile  and 
cheer  regarding  a  doubt  he  could  not  dispel. 

"  For  that,"  he  said,  "  we  must  wait  until 
to-morrow  morning." 

By 

That  great  and  grave  transition, 
Which  may  not  king  or  priest  or  conqueror  spare, 
And  yet  a  babe  can  bear, 

the  morrow's  morning  has  come  to  him. 

The  true  Emersonian  does  not  seek  the  mas- 
ter for  knowledge,  but  for  wisdom,  and  the  best 
wisdom,  a  new  life.    And  does  not  this  search 


b£  c  _T 

c  rt  c 
'E,  B  •=  ■ 

o„E 

>   *■>  -C 
!)<*-■" 

fl  o  o 
g  g  >-. 

S.-*     l/l     4> 
ir.    -*-) 
u  0  .2  ■ 

bD  2    £ 

„B  E 

1  s.s 

<u       n ' 

t/I      W      Q 

III 

03    -*-»     01 

<J  '*£    m 
^    3    § 

.S  crJ2 


,n?J    £"0 


M 


a  c-£ 


i—  u-»      ,— 

£  C3     C3 

(n    O  ^    , 

-T3  9,  -1- 


-r 


rt 


1)    id 
>-    tn 

m     QJ 

.5  — 


bO 


-(- 


s  c 


■r. 


o  °^ 

C-  C  .2 


I  c   *   « 


3 


c^-c 


c/a 


t/j  .3  J2  ,£5 

fcJOjJ 
O  1) 

too  a" 


1) 


.y  tcti 
3-5  J= 

9  o 


„  c  c 

D    rt    " 


-ii    O 


-  o  S 


o 

""  m  u  e 

cj  "O   O    rt 


a  J3 

I-    3 
CJ    m 

d)  — .  ■" 

>-  o  c  -is 

iC    <J    rt    > 


lU~       i   i       r 


THE   TOWN— NI-.W    YORK.    1849 


135 


TWO  HARVARD  POEMS  BY  OLIVER  WENDELL  HOLMES 


Two  of  Holmes's  ungathered  poems   are  interesting  chiefly  because  they  throw 
light  on  Harvard  undergraduate  taste  and  "Commencement  fare"  in  1829.   The  first, 
which  Holmes  offered  as  his  Exhibition  part  on  April  28  of  his  senior  year,  is 
entitled  "Forgotten  Ages."    The  second  was  given  no  title  either  in  the  manu- 
script or  on  the  printed  "Order  of  Exercises  for  Commencement"  on  August  26, 
1829.    See  the  accompanying  facsimile. 


[FORGOTTEN  AGES] 

From  yon  high  chamber,  on  whose  naked  walls 
The  slanting  ray  of  rosy  morning  falls — 
Where  kind  Aurora  showers  her  earliest  beams 
To  wake  the  sleeper  from  delusive  dreams — 
Where  playful  zephyrs  riot  through  the  floor 
Laugh  at  the  cracks  and  revel  round  the  door — 
From  the  bright  home  the  poet  gladly  flies 
To  meet  the  radiance  of  these  brighter  eyes. 

What  various  beauties  crowd  upon  my  sight 
Flash  from  the  left  and  sparkle  from  the  right. 
The  matron's  sweetness  and  the  maiden's  bloom — 
The  flaunting  ribband  and  the  waving  plume — 
Blushes  that  saucers  never  owned  before 
And  locks  unpurchased  from  the  fancy  store — 
In  queenly  pride  the  lofty  head— dress  towers 
And  bonnets  blossom  with  unfading  flowers — 
Their  different  charms  the  smiling  sisters  blend 
All  nature  gives,  and  all  that  Art  can  lend. 

0  envious  time,  could  not  thy  chariot  stay 
A  moment  longer  on  its  silent  way? 
Must  all  thy  glories  burst  upon  the  eye, 
Like  angel's  pinions,  only  as  they  fly? 
How  short  our  empire  on  this  little  stage  1 
How  swift  these  moments  in  the  train  of  age  I 
In  vain  the  light  that  beauty  sheds  around 
To  stay  our  footsteps  on  the  enchanted  ground. 
Time  waves  his  wand — the  short-lived  pageant  flies 
And  other  hours,  and  other  forms  arise. 

As  fades  the  memory  of  an  idle  day 
The  name  of  ages  hastens  to  decay j 
Wrapped  in  the  past,  in  darkness  disappears 
The  gleam  of  moments  and  the  light  of  years. 

0  where,  forgotten  in  the  silent  shade 
Are  all  the  forms,  that  once  had  being,  laid? 
Where  sunk  the  palace  and  where  fell  the  throne 
On  which  the  sun  of  ancient  splendor  shone? 
Nations  have  been  where  we  may  look  in  vain 
For  one  frail  remnant  on  the  voiceless  plain. 
Unchecked  the  wind  around  the  desert  flows 
Where  proud  Ambition's  lofty  turrets  rose. 
Some  wasted  slowly  into  dull  decay 

Till,  stone  by  stone,  their  grandeur  dropped  away. 
The  conqueror  came,  and  in  a  single  hour 
Fell  the  bright  trophies  of  imperial  power. 
Some  sank  beneath  the  red  volcanic  wave 
And  after  ages  trod  their  burning  grave — 
The  surge  has  rolled  o'er  many  an  ancient  shore 
And  Ocean  sweeps  where  man  has  reigned  before. 


136 

Quenched  is  the  lustre  of  the  glancing  eye — 
Cold  is  the  heart  that  once  beat  warm  and  high — 
The  lips  that  nature  only  formed  for  smiles 
Lie  in  the  ashes  of  their  buried  piles. 
In  thousand  paths  the  subtle  shafts  have  fled 
And  none  is  left — the  herald  of  the  dead. 
The  torch  of  famine  seared  the  dying  land, 
The  warrior  fell  beneath  another's  hand: 
And  slow  disease  hath  wasted  many  a  form, 
That  rode  in  triumph  on  the  battle-storm. 

They  sleep,  unconscious  that  the  hour  has  come 
When  all  that  echoed  to  their  voice  is  dumb; 
Alike  to  them  if  o'er  their  dark  repose 
The  forest  blossoms  or  the  ocean  flows. 
The  hand  of  spring  their  funeral  chaplet  weaves, 
And  autumn  strews  them  with  his  withered  leaves; 
Or  wildly  murmuring  round  their  stormy  home 
The  towering  billow  stoops  its  crest  of  foam. 
In  vain  they  bade  their  mausoleums  rise, 
And  reared  their  pillars  till  they  reached  the  skies. 
No  stone  is  rescued  from  the  dust  to  tell 
Where  once  they  stood  and  where  at  last  they  fell 

O'er  other  lands  that  wore  the  crown  of  old 
The  shroud  of  age  is  gathering  fold  by  fold. 
But  still  half-lost  amid  the  deepening  gloom 
The  dying  sun-beam  plays  around  their  tomb. 

Though  art  has  risen  from  her  native  clime 
All  is  not  darkened  in  the  clouds  of  time; 
We  trace  her  brightness  in  the  lingering  glow 
Her  foot  has  kindled  while  it  walked  below. 
The  stately  relics  of  departed  pride — 
The  temple  mouldering  by  its  builder's  side. 
The  prostrate  column  and  the  fallen  shrine 
Point  to  the  days  that  saw  their  glory  shine, 
And  tell  the  stranger  on  their  hallowed  ground 
That  man  is  crumbling  in  the  soil  around. 

And  some  have  lived,  if  that  be  life  which  Fame, 
When  all  is  dust,  can  lavish  on  a  name; 
Still  rings  the  harp  that  Athens  loved  to  hear 
And  bright-eyed  Thalia  woos  the  modern's  ear. 
But  they  who  called  her  from  the  mountain-steep — 
Can  music  wake  them  from  their  silent  sleep? — 

And  we,  the  children  of  a  later  birth, 
The  transient  monarchs  of  this  changing  earth, 
We  too  shall  pass  and  leave  no  single  trace 
To  fix  our  memory  on  some  future  race. 
Our  heroes  glory  in  the  crimson  wreath 
Their  hands  have  wrested  from  the  brow  of  death. 
They  little  see  it,  in  their  fevered  dream, 
Torn  by  the  ripple  of  the  noiseless  stream: 
Our  rulers  frame  their  statutes  for  the  free 
Of  after  ages  that  shall  never  be. 
The  luckless  votaries  of  Apollo's  lyre 
Catch  far  more  real  than  poetic  fire; 
And  vainly  scatter  from  their  pictured  urns, 
Not  "thoughts  that  breathe,"  but  "many  a  word  that  burns." 

So  flies  a  moment,  and  so  rolls  an  age, 
Monarchs  and  poets  quit  alike  the  stage; 
They  leave  at  last  their  sceptre  and  their  crown, 
We  gently  bow  and  lay  our  laurels  down. 
If  our  young  Muse  has  managed  to  beguile 


157 


J 

-! 

.9 

a 
.2 

1 
O 


—  B* 


Sowz 

o5w§ 

om«5 
wo<o 


138 

Her  fairer  sisters  of  one  favoring  smile — 

If  hard-heeled  students  and  if  booted  boys 

Will  aid  her  exit  with  their  flattering  noise — 

If  sterner  age  will  spare  the  humble  lays 

And  kindly  pardon  what  it  cannot  praise, 

Though  e'er  tomorrow  it  shall  be  forgot, 

That  she  has  hovered  round  this  little  spot, 

Without  a  murmur  that  her  feeble  wings 

Must  share  the  fate  of  empires  and  of  kings, 

No  longer  fluttering  in  your  wearied  sight, 

She  folds  her  mantle  and  she  takes  her  flight. 

[A  POEM] 

As  the  proud  champion  in  the  days  of  old 

Ere  the  deep  thunders  for  the  onset  rolled 

Turned  to  the  ranks  where  beauty's  bright  array 

Rose  like  the  crescent  on  the  brow  of  day 

And  sought  through  all  the  glowing  forms  to  trace 

His  own  fair  lady  in  the  crowded  place 

To  ask  the  favour  of  one  gentle  sigh — 

To  claim  one  tribute  from  her  glancing  eye 

So  would  we  turn,  in  anxious  hope  to  find 

Some  pitying  symptoms  from  the  fair  and  kind 

And  ask  for  mercy  as  we  humbly  bow 

Down  at  their  feet  our  laurel  cinctured  brow. 

And  this  dread  moment  is  at  last  our  own 
And  we  are  left  unpitied  and  alone 
With  beating  heart  and  trembling  hands  to  dare 
The  idle  glance — the  stern  unwavering  stare 
The  sneers  of  youth — the  darker  frown  of  age 
The  schoolboy  critic  and  the  solemn  sage 
The  pensive  miss  who  listens  as  she  sighs 
For  'golden  ringlets'  and  for  'sunny  skies' 
The  nameless  being  whose  existence  fills 
What  would  be  vacuum  in  his  faultless  gills 
The  sober  people  that  consult  the  time 
And  think  of  dinner  in  despite  of  rhyme 
And  those  that  crowd  around  the  sacred  door 
To  see  the  place  they  never  saw  before. 

Fair  creatures  kindling  with  a  starlike  glow 
The  hallowed  precincts  of  the  lofty  row 
Since  ye  are  straining  all  your  eyes  to  scan 
The  curves  and  angles  of  our  outer  man 
And  we  all  quivering  with  dismay  must  feel 
Your  curious  looks  that  creep  from  crown  to  heel 
Since  fate's  dark  pleasure  has  decreed  to  day 
That  you  must  hear  what  we  shall  choose  to  say 
To  make  at  once  the  mutual  compact  fair 
We  turn  to  you  and  find  our  subject  there. 

We  be  your  subjectt?]   lisps  the  miss  of  ten 
Why  poets  are  as  impudent  as  men  J 
We  be  your  subject!   cries  the  shrinking  belle 
This  horrid  bonnet!   but  the  gown  looks  well — 
Pray  did  he  think  we  wanted  to  be  seen 
In  Cupid's  name  what  does  the  creature  mean? 
The  married  lady  hints  that  she  allows 
No  such  remarks  from  her  well  managed  spouse 
Or  whispers  glancing  at  her  wedding  ring 
I  wish  my  husband  had  said  such  a  thing. 

Bid  all  your  fans  their  slender  veils  expand 
Knit  the  fair  brow  and  clench  the  little  hand 


139 

The  timid  muse  is  happy  ere  she  flies 

To  light  her  taper  in  your  flashing  eyes. 

There  sits  the  wife — and  though  a  wife  may  seem 
A  curious  subject  for  the  poet's  dream 
Yet  there  is  something  in  that  gentle  name 
That  wakes  the  slumbers  of  the  soul  to  flame. 
When  the  last  angel  winged  his  silent  way 
From  earth's  dark  shadows  to  a  brighter  day 
Yet  erring  man  of  heavenly  forms  bereft 
Could  thank  his  God  that  one  at  least  was  left. 
0  had  our  mother  like  the  modern  Eves 
Robed  her  fair  form  in  those  luxuriant  sleeves 
Then  had  poor  Adam  like  their  husbands  known 
How  hard  his  fortune  who  is  all  alone 
And  walked  in  sorrow  by  his  blooming  bride 
Some  twenty  paces  from  the  lady's  side. 

On  yonder  seat — but  fancy  says  beware 
Nor  wake  the  vengeance  that  is  slumbering  there 
By  all  your  prospects,  as  you  hope  to  claim 
A  lasting  record  on  the  page  of  fame 
Tread  not  too  rashly  on  the  sacred  ground 
Where  the  soft  votary  of  the  muse  is  found. 
The  time  has  been  when  nature's  simple  child 
Was  free  and  fearless  in  his  forest  wild 
His  lovely  savage  in  her  native  grace 
Asked  not  the  aid  of  ribbons  or  of  lace 
She  read  no  novels   poems  or  reviews 
And  men  were  happy  in  the  want  of  blues. 
The  times  have  changed — the  steps  of  womankind 
Are  first  and  foremost  in  the  march  of  mind 
The  housewife's  manual  sleeps  upon  the  shelves 
They  read — they  write — they  criticise  themselves. 
Turn  for  a  moment  to  that  youthful  fair 
With  dovelike  aspect  and  with  gentle  air 
Who  softly  flutters  with  her  little  fan 
And  looks  as  much  like  fainting  as  she  can. 
If  you  have  seen — and  by  a  victim's  tears 
The  sight  is  common  in  these  latter  years 
A  fairhaired  maiden  who  forever  sought 
For  what  she  called  'a  sweet  poetic  thought' 
Who  wrote  in  lines  that  jingled  at  their  ends 
And  kept  an  album  for  her  private  friends 
Then  gentle  hearer  you  indeed  have  seen 
The  female  monster  that  our  verses  mean. 
Trust  not  the  light  of  her  insidious  smile 
Tis  but  the  splendour  of  your  funeral  pile 
Though  all  the  Graces  in  her  front  appear 
That  pinkleaved  album  follows  in  the  rear. 

Nor  these  alone  the  fleeting  muse  require 
To  waste  the  glimmer  of  her  waning  fire 
While  lips  like  thine  celestial  beauty  claim 
The  worthless  offering  of  her  feeble  flame. 
Fairest  of  beings,  if  thy  melting  eyes 
Have  caught  the  azure  of  the  summer  skies 
Or  the  pure  spirit  send  its  flashes  through 
The  kindling  shadows  of  a  darker  hue 
If  oer  thy  forehead  parts  the  raven  fold 
Or  the  high*  tresses  float  in  liquid  gold 
We  own  thy  influence  and  we  bow  to  thee 
The  atheist's  God — the  despot  of  the  free 
We  coldly  bend  at  many  a  prouder  throne 
But  the  heart's  homage — it  is  all  thine  own. 


mjm 


* 

1 

u 

c;    •>  ©  -d  «o 

o  w  >  u  a 

■p  w  -h  o  © 

H  0>   C  <h   O 

•H  H  p  «H    0. 

H             -H 

•.x)  h  © 

•     •    U  O   « 

2    >H     CtJ               <D 

•  >    -si 

fc  25    U    C  P 

O         ci    ai 

a   -x  -h  4* 

nS  n 

n  -h 

4)    $ 

©on 

h  a 

Si  +>  © 

p  « 

o 

3   O 

x>  x 

O    O  -P 

a 

p 

«S  H 

U   £ 

H 

H   ©   O 

U   © 

d  a  -h 

©  XI 

«H    U    W 

• 

•H    C 

©on 

o> 

u  © 

P   «H    -H 

rH 

£j3» 

«j     a 

• 

3 

u  ©  U 

o> 

o  u 

hO-P  © 

c\i 

© 

•rt  a 

CO 

C!   > 

8 

(O 

•H  -H 

a  si  u 

H  H 

W)  O 

o 

X  O 

H     3  «H 

E> 

a 

0 

• 

X 

(d  «H 

U     - 

>> 

u  o 

•  Si     • 

p 

iu 

w  p   C  © 

..    • 

!>H 

u 

U  CM 

©  Si 

to  a  u 

•H 

©  CO 

a  «s 

© 

-P  Xi     • 

XJ    >    « 

fi 

a  °° 

o  u 

C  -H   C 

© 

3  cm 

Si  w 

«1  Si   O 

C  CO 

H    O 

O  P 

t, 

<D 

-r\ 

00    U    ft-H  H 

©  H 

O  <  iH 

©HO 

©  XI 

*o       si  Si 

«S  £> 

CV)  -H 

>>Cfl  POM 

CD 

•  P 

a-n    • 

c 

H  < 

a  co  ^ 

•H 

cm  to 

*MS.:  hight] 


© 

X) 

1 

03 

•H 

o 

© 

1 

rt 

C»-l 

•H 

1 

t 

73  Ch 

© 

t, 

rt 

P 

C 

o 

aS 

■rH 

p 

o 

to  © 

£ 

>> 

•H 

P 

rt 

©  r- 

-P 

© 

p 

© 

rt 

-P 

n 

© 

w 

•rH 

hO 

rt 

P 

Si 

3 

rt 

©  si 

-p 

h 

(h 

H 

bfl 

o 

ft<H 

© 

•H 

a 

MP 

tn 

-o 

h 

C 

rt  X 

>>  © 

© 

ai 

(rt 

X) 

> 

U  H 

© 

Q 

© 

©  +; 

© 

co 

rt 

-P 

© 

d 

© 

X 

3? 

c 

— 

o 

W  Ch 

1 

3 

© 
p 

co 

© 

o 

P  Cm 

rt 

© 

P 

u 

W 

o 

3 

P 

a 

© 

rt 

xl 

rt  X) 

ft 

a  © 

rt  H  -H 

s 

fi 

h 

u 

3 

CO 

rt 

bO  ti 

•H 

© 

o 

rt 

t. 

0 

p 

© 

ft  o 

c 

■H 

© 

a 

o 

o 

© 

© 

•H 

© 

ft  o 

CO 

a 

P  r- 

CO 

rt 

© 

X) 

0) 

H 

© 

k  -r 

O  XJ 

3 

P  H 

O 

© 

ti 

© 

© 

£<H^ 

C  X 

H  M  CTJ 

O  H 

140 


UNGATHERED   LETTERS  OF  OLIVER  WENDELL  HOLMES 


,\xe' 


CO" 


The  first  of  the  two  Holmes  letters  edited  herein  was  written  to  an  undergrad- 
uate committee  of  Harvard  College's  Natural  History  Society — Thornton  Kirkland 
Lothrop  (H.U.  1849),  Joshua  Rindge  Peirce  (H.U.  1850),  and  Horatio  Robinson  Stor- 
er  (H.U.  1850) — and  the  second,^  to  an  unidentified  landlord: 


Boston.  April  21.  1849 
Gentlemen, 

I  am  obliged  to  say  that  I  do  not 
feel  able  to  accept  your  very  kind  invi- 
tation to  deliver  a  public  Lecture  be- 
fore the  Natural  History  Society.   I 
have  already  pledged  myself  for  one  of 
the  Summer  anniversaries,  and  after 
many  months  of  what  is  to  me  hard  la- 
bor, however  small  its  results,  I  am 
anxious  not  to  assume  any  new  responsi- 
bilities for  the  present.   Fortunately 
there  are  many  who  know  a  great  deal 
more  about  the  subjects  in  which  your 
Society  is  interested,  and  I  trust  you 
may  gain  as  much  from  my  inability  to 
serve  you  as  I  shall  lose  in  not  hav- 
ing the  pleasure  of  appearing  before 
you  at  your  annual  meeting. 

Believe  me,  gentlemen 

Very  truly  your  friend 

0.  W.  Holmes. 
Messrs.  T.  K.  Lothrop 

J.  Pierce  [sic] 
Horatio  R.  Storer 


Boston,  March  9th  1887 

My  dear  sir, 

I  think  it  would  be  well  to  put  on 
record  the  terms  we  have  agreed  upon, 
which  I  take  to  be  these : 

— Rent  one  thousand  dollars  to  be  paid 
at  such  time  as  we  agree  upon  as  most 
convenient 

— House  taken  for  one  year,  with  privi- 
lege of  continuance  at  same  rate  so 
long  as  needed.   The  age  and  condition 
of  myself  and  another  member  of  my  fam- 
ily renders  [sic]  our  length  of  tenure 
necessarily  uncertain,  but  we  are  not 
likely  to  change  if  we  are  satisfied, 
as  we  expect  to  be,  with  the  house. 

As  to  all  arrangements  about  repairs, 
changes  etc.  as  we  never  had  trouble 
with  our  landlord  of  many  years,  we  are 
not  likely  to  have  it  with  our  new  one, 
but  can  probably  fix  matters  without 
strikes 

Yours  very  truly 

0.  W.  Holmes. 


1  In  the  Harvard  University  Archives  (HUD  3599.510.2)  and  edited  here  with  the 
kind  permission  of  its  former  custodian,  Clifford  K.  Shipton,  Esq. 

2  In  the  George  Ketchum  Autograph  Collection  of  the  Canton  Historical  Society, 
Canton,  Mass.,  edited  here  with  its  permission. 


THOREAU'S  DECLAMATIONS  AT  THE  CONCORD  ACADEMY 


Kenneth  Walter  Cameron 
Trinity  College 


In  an  earlier  article,   I  recorded  largely  from  the  papers  of  Phineas  Allen 
(now  in  the  Concord  Free  Public  Library)  the  extent  of  Thoreau's  participation  in 
the  academic  life  of  the  Concord  Academy.   I  here  particularize  the  recitations 
he  gave  at  the  time  of  "examinations"  before  parents  and  the  "committee" — when 
possible  indicating  the  probable  rhetorical  reader  in  which  he  found  them. 

(1)  Feb.  25,  1829.   George  Croly's  "The  Death  of  Leonidas."   [Not  located  in  a 

rhetorical  reader.   Possibly  taken  from  a  newspaper  or  periodical.] 

(2)  Aug.  22,  1829.   Thomas  Moore's  "Lines  Written  in  1821  on  Hearing  that  the 

Austrians  had  entered  Naples...."    [Taken  from  John  Pierpont's  The  Ameri- 
can First  Class  Book;  or  Exercises  in  Reading  and  Recitation   [Known  as 
Pierpont's  Fifth  Reader . ]   Many  editions.   I  quote  from  the  30th,  N.Y., 
[1835],  pp.  440-441.] 


141 

(3)  Feb.  25,  1830.   "Dialogue  between  Charles  II  and  William  Penn."   Partici- 

pants were  Thoreau  and  Edward  William  Wright.   [Not  located.   Possibly  an 
original  composition.] 

(4)  Feb.  25,  1830.   Extract  from  Edward  Everett's  Oration  delivered  at  Plymouth, 

Mass.,  Dec.  22,  1824.   [Taken  from  John  Pierpont's  The  National  Reader:  A 
Selection  of  Exercises  in  Reading  and  Speaking.   [Known  as  Pierpont's  Fourth 
Reader.]   Many  editions.   I  quote  from  the  28th,  N.Y.,  [1835],  pp.  200-205.] 

(5)  Aug.  18,  1830.   William  Wirt's  Letters  of  the  British  Spy  (1803).   [Found  in 

John  Pierpont's  The  American  First  Class  Book,  ed.  cit.,  324-329.] 

(6)  Ca.  1831.  "Buonaparte's  Address  to  his  Army."  [Not  located  in  a  speaker.] 

(7)  Ca.  1832.   "Speech  in  the  National  Convention  of  France."   [Not  located.] 


*   "Young  Henry  Thoreau  in  the  Annals  of  the  Concord  Academy  (1829-1833),"  ESQ. 
no.  9  (IV  Quar.  1957),  pp.  1-42. 


[  2  ] 
LESSON  CXCIII. 

Lines  written  in  lbvl ;  on  hearing  that  the  Austrian*  had  en- 
tered Naples — with  scarcely  a  show  of  resistance  on  the  part 
of  the  Neapolitans,  who  had  declared  their  independence,  and 
pledged  themselves  to  maintain  it. — Moore. 

At,  down  'to  the  dust  with  them,  slaves  as  they  are ! 

From  this  hour  let  the  blood  in  their  dastardly  veins, 
That  shrunk  from  the  first  touch  of  Liberty's  war, 

Be  sucked  out  bv  tvrants,  or  stagnate  in  chains ! 

On — on,  like  a  cloud,  through  their  beautiful  vales, 
Ye  locusts  of  tyranny  ! — blasting  them  o'er  : 

Fill — fill  up  their  wide,  sunny  waters,  ye  sails, 

From  each  slave-mart  in  Eurone,  and  poison  their  shore- 

May  their  fate  be  a  mock-word — may  men  of  all  lands 
Laugh  out  with  a  scorn  that  shall  ring  to  the  poles, 

When  each  sword,  that  the  cowards  let  fall  from  their  hands, 
Shall  be  forged  into  fetters  to  enter  their  souls ! 

And  deep,  and  more  deep,  as  the  iron  is  driven, 
Base  slaves  !  may  the  whet  of  their  agony  be, 

To  think — as  the  damned  haply  think  of  the  heaven 

They  had  once   in  their  reach, — that   they  might   have 
been  free. 

Shame  !  sharrie  !  when  there  was  not  a  bosom,  whose  heat 
Ever  rose  o"er  the  zero  of  Castlereagh's  heart, 

That  did  not,  Jike  Echo,  your  war-hymn  repeat, 

And  send  back  its  prayers  with  your  Liberty's  start !  .  .  . 

When  the  world  stood  in  hope — when  a  spirit  that  breathed 
Full  fresh  of  the  olden  time  whispered  about, 

And  the  swords  of  all  Italy,  half-way  unsheathed, 
But  waited  one  conquering  word  to  flash  out !  .  ,  . 

When  around  you  the  shades  of  your  mighty  in  fame, 
Filicaias  and  Peirarchs  seemed  bursting  to  view, 

And  their  words  and  their  warnings, — like  tongues  of  bright 
flame 
Over  Freedom's  apostles — fell  kindling  on  you!  .  .  . 

Good  God  !  that  in  such  a  proud  moment  of  life, 
Worth  ages  of  history — when,  had  yon  but  hurled 

One  bolt  at  your  bloody  invader,  that  strife 

Between  freemen  and  tyrants  hath  spread  through  the 
world.  .  .  . 

That  then — 0,  disgrace  upon  manhood  !  e'en  then 
You  should  falter — should  cling  to  yoor  pitiful  breath, 

Cower  down  into  beasts,  when  you  might  have  stood  men, 
And  prefer  a  slave's  life,  to  a  glorious  death  ! 


Ft  is  strange  ! — it  is  dreadful !     Shout,  Tyranny,  shoat 
Through  your  dungeons  and  palaces,  'Freedom  is  o'er' — 

If  there  lingers  one  spark  of  her  fire,  tread  it  out, 
And  return  to  your  empire  of  darkness  once  more. 

For  if  such  are  the  braggarts  that  claim  in  be  free, 
Come,  Despot  of  Russia,  thy  feet  let  rae  kiss : — 

Far  nobler  to  live  the  brute  bondman  of  thee, 
Than  sully  even  chains  by  a  struggle  like  this. 

[    4    ] 


LESSON  cvm. 

Extract  from  an  Oration,  delivered  at  Plymouth,  Mass.  22<i 
Dec.  1S24,  in  commemoration  of  the  landing  of  the  Pil- 
grims.— E.  Everett. 

It  is  not  by  pompous  epithets  or  lively  antitheses,  that  the 
exploits  of  the  pilgrims  are  to  be  set  forth  by  their  children. 
We  can  only  do  this  worthily,  by  repeating  the  plain  tale  of 
their  sufferings,  by  dwelling  on  the  circumstances  under 
which  their  memorable  enterprise  was  executed,  and  by 
cherishing  and  uttering  that  spirit,  which  led  them  across 
the  ocean,  and  guided  them  to  the  spot  where  we  stand. — 
We  need  no  voice  of  artificial  rhetoric  to  celebrate  their 
names.  The  bleak  and  deathlike  desolation  of  nature  pro- 
claims, with  touching  eloquence,  the  fortitude  and  patience 
of  the  meek  adventurers.  On  the  bare  and  wintry  fields 
around  us,  their  exploits  are  written  in  characters,  which 
will  last,  and  tell  their  tale  to  posterity,  when  brass  and 
marble  have  crumbled  into  dust. 

The  occasion  which  has  called  us  together  is  certainly  one 
to  which  no  parallel  exists  in  the  history  of  the  world.  Other 
countries,  and  our  own  also,  have  their  national  festivals. 
They  commemorate  the  birthdays  of  their  illustrious  chil- 
dren ;  they  celebrate  the  foundation  of  important  institutions  : 
momentous  events,  victories,  reformations,  revolutions,  awak- 
en, on  their  anniversaries,  the  grateful  and  patriotic  feelings 
of  posterity.  But  we  commemorate  the  birthday  of  all  New 
England  ;  the  foundation,  not  of  one  institution,  but  of  all 
the  institutions,  the  settlements,  the  establishments,  the  com- 
munities, the  societies,,  the  improvements,  comprehended 
within  our  broad  and  happy  borders. 

.  Were  it  only  as  an  act  of  rare  adventure  ;  were  it  a  trait 
in  foreign  or  ancient  history  ;  we  should  fix  upon  the 
achievement  of  our  fathers,  as  one  of  the  noblest  deeds  in 
the  annals  of  the  world.  Were  we  attracted  to  it  by  no 
other  principle  than  that  sympathy  we  feel  in  all  the  for- 
tunes of  our  race,  it  could  lose  nothing — it  must  gain — in 
the  contrast,  with  whatever  history  or    tradition  has   pre- 


142 


served,  to  us  of  the  wanderings  ana  settlements  ot  the  tribes 
of  man.  A  continent  for  the  first  time  effectually  explored ; 
a  vast  ocean  traversed  by  men,  women,  and  children,  volun- 
tarily exiling  themselves  from  the  fairest  regions  of  the  old 
world  ;  and  a  great  nation  grown  up,  in  the  space  of  two 
centuries,  on  the  foundations  so  perilously  laid  by  this  pious 
band : — point  me  to  the  record,  to  the  tradition,  nay,  to  the 
fiction,  of  any  thing,  that  can  enter  into  competition  with 
it.  It  is  the  language,  not  of  exaggeration,  but  of  truth  and 
soberness,  to*  say,  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  accounts  of 
Phenician,  of  Grecian,  or  of  Roman  colonization,  that  can 
stand  in  the  comparison. 

What  new  importance,  then,  does  not  the  achievement 
acquire  to  our  minds,  when  we  consider  that  it  was  the  deed 
of  our  fathers  ;  that  this  grand  undertaking  was  accomplish- 
ed on  the  spot  where  we  dwell ;  that  the  mighty  region  they 
explored  is  our  native  land  ;  that  the  unrivalled  enterprise 
they  displayed  is  not  merely  a  fact  proposed  to  our  admira- 
tion, but  is  the  source  of  our  being  ;  that  their  cruel  hardships 
are  the  spring  of  our  prosperity ;  their  amazing  sufferings 
the  seed,  from  which  our  happiness  has  sprung ;  that  their 
weary  banishment  gave  us  a  home  ;  that  to  their  separation 
from  every  thing  which  is  dear  and  pleasant  in  life,  we  owe 
all  the  comforts,  the  blessings,  the  privileges,  which  make 
our  lot  the  envy  of  mankind. 


LESSON  CIX. 

Second  Extract,  Jrom  the  same. 

It  was  not  enough  that  our  fathers  were  of  England:  the 
masters  of  Ireland,  and  the  lords  of  Hindostan,  are  of  Eng- 
land too.  But  our  fathers  were  Englishmen,  aggrieved,  per- 
secuted, and  banished.  It  is  a  principle,  amply  borne  out 
by  the  history  of  the  great  and  powerful  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  by  that  of  none  more  than  the  country  of  which  we 
speak,  that  the  best  fruits  and  choicest  action  of  the  com'- 
mendable  qualities  of  the  national  character,  are  to  be  found 
on  the  side  of  the  oppressed  few,  and  not  of  the  triumphant 
many.  As,  in  private  character,  adversity  is  often  requisite 
to  give  a  proper  direction  and  temper  to  strong  qualities  ;  so 
the  noblest  traits  of  national  character,  even  under  the  freest 
and  most  independent  of  hereditary  governments,  are  com- 
monly to  be  sought  in  the  ranks  of  a  protesting  minority,  or 
of  a  dissenting  sect.  Never  was  this  truth  more  clearly  il- 
lustrated than  in  the  settlement  of  New  England. 

Could  a  common  calculation  of  policy  have  dictated  the 
terms  of  that  settlement,  no  doubt  our  foundations  would 
have  been  laid  beneath  the  royal  smile.  Convoys  and  na- 
vies would  have  been  solicited  to  waft  our  fathers  to  the 
coast ;  armies,  to  defend  the  infant  communities  ;  and  the 
flattering  patronage  of  princes  and  lords,  to  espouse  their  in- 
terests in  the  councils  of  the  mother  country.  Happy,  that 
our  fathers  enjoyed  no  such  patronage  ;  happy,  that  they 
fell  into  no  such  protecting  hands  ;  happy,  that  our  founda- 
tions were  silently  and  deeply  cast,  in  quiet  insignificance, 
beneath  a  charter  of  banishment,  persecution,  and  contempt ; 
so  that,  when  the  royal  arm  was  at  length  outstretched  against 
us,  instead  of  a  submissive  child,  tied  down  by  former  graces, 
it  found  a  youthful  giant  in  the  land,  born  amidst  hard- 
ships, and  nourished  on  the  rocks,  indebted  for  no  favours, 
and  owing  no  duty.  From  the  dark  portals  of  the  star  cham- 
ber, and  in  the  stern  text  of  the  acts  of  uniformity,  the  pil- 
grims received  a  commission  more  efficient  than  any  that 
ever  bore  the  royal  seal.  Their  banishment  to  Holland  was 
fortunate;  the  decline  of  their  little  company  in  the  strange 
land  was  fortunate  ;  the  difficulties  which  they  experienced 
in  getting  the  royal  consent  to  banish  themselves  to  this 
wilderness  were  fortunate  ;  all  the  tears  and  heart-breakings 
of  that  ever-memorable  parting  at  Dclfthavcn  had  the  hap- 
piest influence  on  the  rising  destinies  of  New  England. 
All  this  purified  the  ranks  of  the  settlers.  These  rough 
touches  of  fortune  brushed  off  the  light,  uncertain,  selfish 
spirits.  They  made  it  a  grave,  solemn,  self-denying  expe- 
dition, and  required  of  those  who  engaged  in  it,  to  be  so 
too.  They  cast  a  broad  shadow  of  thought  and  seriousness 
over  the  cause,  and,  if  this  sometimes  deepened  into  melan- 


choly and  bitterness,  can  we  find  no  apology  for  such  a  hu- 
man weakness  ? 

It  is  sad,  indeed,  to  reflect  on  the  disasters,  which  the  little 
band  of  pilgrims  encountered  ; — sad  to  see  a  portion  of 
them,  the  prey  of  unrelenting  cupidity,  treacherously  em- 
barked in  an  unsound,  unscaworth y  ship,  which  they  are 

6oon  obliged  to  abandon,  and  crowd  themselves  into  one 
vessel — one  hundred  persons,  besides  the  ship's  company, 
in  a  vessel  of  one  hundred  and  eighty  tons.  One  is  touched 
at  the  story  of  the  long,  cold,  and  weary  autumnal  passage; 
of  the  landing  on  the  inhospitable  rocks  at  this  dismal  sea- 
son, where  they  are  deserted,  before  long,  by  the  ship  which 
had  brought  them,  and  which  seemed  their  only  hold  upon 
the  world  of  fellow  men, — a  prey  to  the  elements  and  to 
want,  and  fearfully  ignorant  of  the  numbers,  the  power,  and 
the  temper  of  the  savage  tribes,  -that  filled  the  unexplored 
continent,  upon  whose  verge  they  had  ventured.  Eut  all  this 
wrought  together  for  good.  These  trials  of  wandering  and 
exile,  of  the  ocean,  the  winter,  the  wilderness,  and  the  savage 
foe,  were  the  final  assurance  of  success.  It  was  these  that 
put  far  away  from  our  fathers'  cause  all  patrician  softness, 
all  hereditary  claims  to  pre-eminence.  No  effeminate  nobility 
crowded  into  the  dark  and  austere  ranks  of  the  pilgrims  ; 
no  Carr  nor  Villiers  would  lead  on  the  ill-provided  band 
of  despised  Puritans ;  no  well-endowed  clergy  were  on  the 
alert  to  quit  their  cathedrals,  and  set  up  a  pompous  hierarchy 
in  the  frozen  wilderness ;  no  craving  governors  were  anxious 
lo  be  sent  over  to  our  cheerless  El  Dorados  of  ice  and  of 
snow.  No;  they  could  not  say  they  had  encouraged,  patron- 
ised, or  helped  the  pilgrims :  their  own  cares,  their  own 
labours,  their  own  councils,  their  own  blood,  contrived  all, 
achieved  all,  bore  all,  sealed  all.  They  could  not  after- 
wards fairly  pretend  to  reap  where  they  had  not  strown : 
and,  as  our  fathers  reared  this  broad  and  solid  fabric  with 
pains  and  watchfulness,  unaided,  barely  tolerated,  it  did  not 
fall  when  tlie  favour,  which  had  always  been  withholden, 
was  changed  into  wrath  ;  when  the  ana.  which  had  never 
supported,  was  raised  to  destroy. 

Mcthinks  I  see  it  now,  that  one  solitary,  adventurous  ves- 
sel, the  May-Flower  of  a  forlorn  hope,  freighted  with  the 
prospects  of  a  future  state,  and  bound  across  the  unknown 
sea.  I  behold  it  pursuing,  with  a  thousand  misgiving'!,  the 
uncertain,  the  tedious  voyage.  Suns  rise  and  set,  and  weeks 
and  months  pass,  and  winter  surprises  them  on  the  deep, 
but  brings  them  not  the  sight  of  the  wi.-hed-for  shore.  I 
see  them  now  scantily  supplied  with  provisions,  crowded 
almost  to  suffocation  in  their  ill-stored  prison,  delayed  by 
calms,  pursuing  a  circuitous  route  ;—  and  now  driven  in  fury 
before  the  ragiug  tempest,  on  the  high  and  giddy^  waves. 
The  awful  voice  of  the  storm  howls  through  the  rigging 
♦he  labouring  masts  seem  straining  from  their  base;  the 
dismal  sound  of  the  pumps  is  heard  ;  the  ship  leaps,  as  it 
were,  madly,  from  billow  to  billow ;  the  ocean  breaks,  and 
settles  with  ingulfing  floods  over  the  floating  deck,  and 
beats,  with  deadening,  shivering  weight,  against  the  stag- 
gered vessel.  I  see  them,  escaped  from  these  perils,  pur- 
suing their  all  but  desperate  undertaking,  and  landed,  at  last, 
after  a  five  months'  passage,  on  the  ice-clad  rocks  of  Ply- 
mouth,— weak  and  weary  from  the  voyage,  poorly  armed, 
scantily  provisioned,  depending  on  the  charity  of  their  ship- 
master for  a  draught  of  beer  on  board,  drinking  nothing  but 
water  on  shore,-*-without  shelter, — without  means, — sur- 
rounded by  hostile  tribes.  Shut  now  the  volume  of  history, 
and  tell  me,  on  any  principle  of  human  probability,  what 
shall  be  the  fate  of  this  handful  of  adventurers. — Tell  me, 
man  of  military  science,  in  how  many  month-  were  they  all 
swept  off  by  the  thirty  savage  tribes,  enumerated  within  the 
early  limits  of  New-  England  ?  Tell  me,  politician,  how 
long  did  this  shadow  of  a  colony,  on  which  your  conventions 
and  treaties  had  not  smiled,  languish  on  the  distant  coast? 
Student  of  history,  compare  for  me  the  baffled  projects,  the 
deserted  settlements,  the  abandoned  adventures,  of  other 
times,  and  find  the  parallel  of  this.  Was  it  the  winter's 
storm,  beating  upon  the  houseless  heads  of  women  and  chil- 
dren ;  was  it  hard  labour  and  spare  meals ;  was  it  dis- 
ease ;  was  it  the  tomahawk ;  was  it  the  deep  malady  of  a 
blighted  hope,  a  ruined  enterprise,  and  a  broken  heart, 
aching,  in  its  last  moments,  at  the  recollection   of  the  loved 


143 


and  left,  beyond  the  sea; — was  it  some,  or  all  of  these 
united,  that  hurried  this  forsaken  company  to  their  melan- 
choly fate  ? — And  is  it  possible  that  neither  of  these  causes, 
that  not  all  combined,  were  able  to  blast  this  bud  of  hope  ? — 
Is  it  possible,  that,  from  a  beginning  so  feeble,  so  frail,  so 
worthy,  not  so  much  of  admiration  as  of  pity,  there  has  gone 
forth  a  progress  so  steady,  a  growth  so  wonderful,  an  expan- 
sion so  ample,  a  reality  so  important,  a  promise,  yet  to  bo 
fulfilled,  so  glorious 7     *      *     *     * 

I  do  not  fear  that  we  shall  be  accused  of  extravagance  in 
the  enthusiasm  we  feel  at  a  train  of  events  of  such  aston- 
ishing magnitude,  novelty  and  consequence,  connected,  by 
associations  so  intimate,  with  the  day  we  now  hail,  with 
the  events  we  now  celebrate,  with  the  pilgrim  fathers  of 
New  England..  Victims  of  persecution  !  how  wide  an  em- 
pire acknowledges  the  sway  of  your' principles  !  Apostles 
of  liberty !  what  millions  attest  the  authenticity  of  your 
mission  !  Meek  champions  of  truth  !  no  stain  of  private 
interest,  or  of  innocent  blood,  is  on  the  spotless  garments 
of  your  renown  !  The  great  continents  of  America  have 
become,  at  length,  the  theatre  of  your  achievements  ;  the 
Atlantic  and  the  Pacific  the  highways  of  communication,  on 
which  your  principles,  your  institutions,  your  example,  are 
borne.  From  the  oldest  abodes  of  civilization,  the  venerable 
plains  of  Greece,  to  the  scarcely  explored  range  ef  the  Cor- 
dilleras, the  impulse  you  gave  at  length  is  felt.  While  other 
regions  revere  you  as  the  leaders  of  this  gTcat  march  of 
humanity,  we  arc  met,  on  this  joyful  day,  to  offer  to  your 
memories  our  tribute  of  filial  affection.  The  sons  and 
daughters  of  the  pilgrims,  we  have  assembled  on  the  spot 
where  you,  our  suffering  fathers,  set  foot  on  this  happy  shore. 
Happy,  indeed,  it  has  been  for  us.  0  that  you  could  have 
enjoyed  those  blessings,  which  you  prepared  for  your  chil- 
dren ! — that  our  comfortable  homes  could  have  shielded  you 
from  the  wintry  air  ;  our  abundant  harvests  have  supplied 
you  in  time  of  famine  ;  and  the  broad  shield  of  our  be- 
loved country  have  sheltered  you  from  the  visitations  of 
arbitrary  power !  We  come,  in  our  prosperity,  to  remember 
your  trials  ;  and  here,  on  the  spot  where  New  England  be- 
gan to  be,  we  come  to  learn,  of  our  pilgrim  fathers,  a  deep 
and  lasting  lesson  of  virtue,  enterprise,  patience,  zeal,  and 
faith ! 

[     5     ] 
LESSON  CXLVT. 
Letter  from  the  British  Spy,  in  Virginia. — Wist. 

Richmond,  September  22,  1803. 

1  have  just  returned  from  an  interesting  morning's  ride. 
My  object  was  to  visit  the  site  of  the  Indian  town,  Powha- 
tan ;  which,  you  will  remember,  was  the  metropolis  of  the 
dominions  of  Pocahontas'  -father,  and,  very  probably,  the 
birthplace  of  that  celebrated  princess. 

The  town  was  built  on  the  river,  about  two  miles  below 
the  gTOui.d  now  occupied  by  Richmond :  that  is,  about  two 
miles  below  the  head  of  tide  water. 

AwaTe  of  the  slight  manner  in  which  the  Indians  have 
always  constructed  their  habitations,  I  was  not  at  all  disap- 
pointed in  finding  no  vestige  of  the  old  town.  But  as  I 
traversed  the  ground  over  which  Pocahontas  had  so  often 
bounded  and  froliced  in  the  sprightly  morning  of  her 
youth,  I  could  not  help  recalling  the  principal  features  of 
her  history,  and  heaving  a  sigh  of  mingled  pity  and  venera- 
tion to  her  memory. 

Good  Heaven !  What  an  eventful  life  was  hers !  To 
speak  of  nothing  else,  the  arrival  of  the  English  in  her  fa- 
ther's dominions  must  have  appeared  (as  indeed  it  turned 
out  to  be)  a  most  portentous  phenomenon.  It  is  not  easy 
for  us  to  conceive  the  amazement  and  consternation  which. 
must  have  filled  her  mind  and  that  of  her  nation  at  the  first 
appearance  of  our  countrymen.  Their  great  ship,  with  all 
her  sails  spread,  advancing  in  solemn  majesty  to  the  shore  ; 
their  complexion;  their  dress;  their  language;  their  do- 
mestic animals ;  their  cargo  of  new  and  glittering  wealth  ; 
and  then  the  thunder  and  irresistible  force  of  their  artillery ; 


the  distant  country  announced  by  them,  far  beyond  the 
great  water,  of  which  the  oldes.t  Indian  had  never  heard, 
or  thought,  or  dreamed — all  this  was  so  new,  so  wonderful, 
so  tremendous,  that,  I  do  seriously  suppose,  the  personal 
descent  of  an  army  of  Milton's  celestial  angels,  robed  in 
light,  sporting  in  the  bright  beams  of  the  sun  and  redoubling 
their  splendor,  making  divine  harmony  with  their  golden 
harps,  or  playing  with  the  bolt  and  chasing  the  rapid  light- 
ning of  heaven,  would  excite  not  more  astonishment  in 
Great  Britain,  than  did  the  debarkation  of  the  English 
among  the  aborigines  of  Virginia. 

Poor  Indians !  Where  are  they  now  ?  Indeed,  this  is  a 
truly  afflicting  consideration.  The  people  here  may  say 
what  they  please ;  but,  on  the  principles  of  eternal  truth  and 
justice,  they  have  no  right  to  this  country.  They  say  that 
they  have  bought  it. — Bought  it !  Yes ; — of  whom  ? — Of 
the  poor  trembling  natives  who  knew  that  refusal  would  be 
vain ;  and  who  strove  to  make  a  merit  of  necessity  by  seem- 
ing to  yield  with  gTace,  what  they  knew  that  they  had  not 
the  power  to  retain.  Such  a  bargain  might  appease  the 
conscience  of  a  gentleman  of  the  green  bag,  "  worn  and 
hackneyed"  in  the  arts  and  frauds  of  his  profession  ;  but  in 
heaven's  chancery,  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  it  has  been 
long  since  set  aside  on  the  ground  of  compulsion. 

Poor  wretches !  No  wonder  that  they  are  so  implacably 
vindictive  against  the  white  people ;  no  wonder  that  the 
rage  of  resentment  is  handed  down  from  generation  to 
generation ;  no  wonder  that  they  refuse  to  associate  and 
mix  permanently  with  their  unjust  and  cruel  invaders  and 
exter'minators ;  no  wonder  that,  in  the  unabating  spite  and 
frenzy  of  conscious  impotence,  they  wage  an  eternal  war, 
as  well  as  they  are  able ;  that  they  triumph  in  the  rare  op- 
portunity of  revenge ;  that  they  dance,  sing,  and  rejoice, 
as  the  victim  shrieks  and  faints  amid  the  flames,  when  they 
imagine  all  the  crimes  of  their  oppressors  collected  on  his 
head,  and  fancy  the  spirits  of  their  injured  forefathers  hover- 
ing over  the  scene,  smiling  with  ferocious  delight  at  the 
grateful  spectacle,  and  feasting  on  the  precious  odor  as  it 
arises  from  the  burning  blood  of  the  white  man. 

Yet  the  people,  here,  affect  to  wonder  that  the  Indians 
are  so  very  unsusceptible  of  civilization ;  or,  in  other  words, 
that  they  so,  obstinately  refuse  to  adopt  the  manners  of  the 
white  men.  Go,  Virginian  ;  erase,  from  the  Indian  nation, 
the  tradition  of  their  wrongs ;  make  them  forget,  if  you  can, 
that  once  this  charming  country  was  theirs ;  that  over  these 
fields  and  through  these  forests,  their  beloved  forefathers, 
once,  in  careless  gayety,  pursued  their  sports  and  hunted 
their  game ;  that  every  returning  day  found  them  the  sole, 
the  peaceful,  the  happy  proprietors  of  this  extensive  and 
beautiful  domain.  Make  them  forget  too,  if  you  can,  that  in 
the  midst  of  all  this  innocence,  simplicity,  and  bliss — the 
white  man  came ;  and  lo ! — the  animated  chase,  the  feast, 
the  dance,  the  song  of  fearless,  thoughtless  joy  were  over; 
that  ever  since,  they  have  been  made  to  drink  of  the  bitter 
cup  of  humiliation ;  treated  like  dogs ;  their  lives,  their 
liberties,  the  sport  of  the  white  men ;  their  country  and  the 
graves  of  their  fathers  torn  from  them,  in'  cruel  succession : 
until,  driven  from  river  to  river,  from  forest  to  forest,  and 
through  a  period  of  two  hundred  years,  rolled  back,  nation 
upon  nation,  they  find  themselves  fugitives,  vagrants  and 
strangers  in  their  own  country,  and  look  forward  to  the  cer- 
tain period  when  their  descendants  will  be  totally  extin- 
guished by  wars,  driven  at  the  point  of  the  bayonet  into  the 
western  ocean,  or  reduced  to  a  fate  still  more  deplorable  and 
horrid,  the  condition  of  slaves. 

Go,  administer  the  cup  of  oblivion  to  recollections  and 
anticipations  like  these,  and  then  you  will  cease  to  complain 
that  the  Indian  refuses  to  be  civilized.  But  until  then,  surely 
it  is  nothing  wonderful  that  a  nation  even  yet  bleeding  afresh, 
from  the  memory  of  ancient  wrongs,  perpetually  agonized 
by  new  outrages,  and  goaded  into  desperation  and  madness 
nt  the  prospect  of  the  certain  ruin,  which  awaits  their  de- 
scendants, should  hate  the  authors  of  their  miseries,  of  their 
desolation,  their  destruction ;  should  hate  their  manners, 
hate  their  color,  their  language,  their  name,  and  every 
thing  that  belongs  to  them.  No  ;  never,  until  time  shall  wear 
out  the  history  of  their  sorrows  and  their  sufferings,  will  the 


144 


Indian  be  brought  to  love  the  white  man,  and  to  imitate  hi» 
manners. 

Great  God!  To  reflect  that  the  authors  of  all  these 
wrongs  were  our  own  countrymen,  our  forefathers,  profes- 
sors of  the  meek  and  benevolent  religion  or"  Jesus!  O!  it 
was  impious  ;  it  was  unmanly ;  poor  and  pitiful!  Gracious 
Heaven !  what  had  these  poor  people  done  ?  The  simple 
inhabitants  of  these  peaceful  plains,  what  wrong,  what  injury, 
had  they  offered  to  the  English  ?  My  soul  melts  with  pity 
and  shame. 

As  for  the  present  inhabitants,  it  must  be  granted  that 
they  are  comparatively  innocent:  unless  indeed  they  also 
have  encroached  under  the  guise  of  treaties,  which  they 
themselves  have  previously  contrived  to  render  expedient  or 
peccssary  to  the  Indians. 

Whether  this  have  been  the  case  or  not,  I  am  too  much  a 
stranger  to  the  interior  transactions  of  this  country  to  de- 
cide. But  it  seems  to  me  that  were  I  a  president  of  the 
United  States,  I  would  glory  in  going  to  the  Indians,  throwing 
myself  on  my  knees  before  them,  and  saying  to  them,  '  In- 
dians, friends,  brothers,  0  !  forgive  my  countrymen  !  Deeply 
have  our  forefathers  wronged  you ;  and  they  have  forced  us 
to  continue  the  wrong.  Reflect,  brothers ;  it  was  not'  our 
fault  that  we  were  born  in  you,r  country ;  but  now,  we  have 
no  other  home ;  we  have  no  where  else  to  rest  our  feet 
Will  you  not,  then,  permit  us  to  remain  ?  Can  you  not  for- 
give even  us,  innocent  as  we*  are  ?  If  you  can,  O  !  come  to 
our  bosoms ;  be,  indeed,  our  brothers ;  and  since  there,  is 
room  enough  foi  us  all,  give  us  a  home  in  your  land,  and 
let  us  be  children  of  the  same  affectionate  family." 

I  believe  that  a  magnanimity  of  sentiment  like  this,  fol- 
lowed up  by  a  correspondent  greatness  of  conduct  on  the 
part  of  the  people  of  the  United  States,  would  go  farther 
to  bury  the  tomahawk  and  produce  a  fraternization  with  the 
Indians,  than  all  the  presents,  treaties,  and  missionaries  that 
can  be  employed ;  dashed  and  defeated  as  these  latter  means 
always  are,  by  a  claim  of  rights  on  the  part  of  the  white 
people  which  the  Indians  know  to  be  false  and  baseless. 
Let  me  not  be  told  that  the  Indians  are  too  dark  and  fierce 
to  be  affected  by  generous  and  noble  sentiments.  I  will 
not  believe  it.  Magnanimity  can  never  be  lost  on  a  na- 
tion which  has  produced  an  Alknomok,  a  Logan,  and  a 
Pocahontas. 

The  repetition  of  the  name  of  this  amiable  princess  brings 
me  back  to  the  point  from  which  I  digressed.  I  wonder 
that  the  Virginians,  fond  as  they  are  of  anniversaries,  have 


instituted  no  festival,  or  order,  in  honor  of  her  memory. 
For  my  own  part,  I  have  little  doubt,  from  the  histories 
which  we  have  of  the  first  attempts  at  colonizing  their 
country,  that  Pocahontas  deserves  to  be  considered  as  the 
patron  deity  of  the  enterprise.  When  it  is  remembered 
now  long  the  colony  struggled  to  get  a  footing;  how  often 
sickness  or  famine,  neglect  at  home,  mismanagement  here, 
and  the  hostilities  of  the  natives,  brought  it  to  the  brink  of 
ruin;  through  what  a  tedious  lapse  of  time  it  alternately 
languished  and  revived,  sunk  and  rose,  sometimes  hanging, 
like  Addison's  lamp,  "  quivering  at  a  point,"  then  sud- 
denly shooting  up  into  a  sickly  and  shortlived  flame;  in 
one  word,  when  we  recollect  how  near  and  how  often  it 
verged  towards  total  extinction,  maugre  the  patronage  of 
Pocahontas ;  there  is  the  strongest  reason  to  believe  that, 
but  for  her  patronage,  the  anniversary  cannon  of  the  fourth 
of  July  would  never  have  resounded  throughout  the  United 
States. 

Is  it  not  probable,  that  this  sensible  and  amiable  woman, 
perceiving  the  superiority  of  the  Europeans,  foreseeing  the 
probability  of  the  subjugation  of  her  countrymen,  and  anx- 
ious as  well  to  soften  their  destiny,  as  to  save  the  needless 
effusion  of  human  blood,  desired,  by  her  marriage  with  Mr. 
Rolfe,  to  hasten  the  abolition  of  all  distinction  between 
Indians  and  white  men ;  to  bind  their  interests  and  affec- 
tions by  the  nearest  and  most  endearing  ties,  and  to  make 
them  regard  themselves,  as  one  people,  the  children  of  the 
same  great  family  ? 

If  such  were  her  wise  and  benevolent  views,  and  I  have 
no  doubt  tint  they  were,  how  poorly  were  they  backed  by 
the  British  court!  No  wonder  at  the  resentment  and  indig- 
nation with  which  she  saw  them  neglected ;  no  wonder  at 
the  bitterness  of  the  disappointment  and  vexation  which  she 
expressed  to  captain  Smith,  in  London,  arising  as  well  from 
the  cold  reception  which  she  herself  had  met,  as  from  the 
contemptuous  and  insulting  point  of  view  in  which  she  found 
that  her  nation  was  regarded. 

Unfortunate  princess  !  She  deserved  a  happier  fate  !  But 
I  am  consoled  by  these  reflections :  first,  that  she  sees  her 
descendants  among  the  most  respectable  families  in  Virginia; 
and  that  they  are  not  only  superior  to  the  false  shame  of 
disavowing  her  as  their  ancestor,  but  that  they  pride  them- 
selves, and  with  reason  too,  on  the  honor  of  their  descent; 
secondly,  that  she  herself  has  gone  to  a  country,  where  she 
finds  her  noble  wishes  realized ;  where  the  distinction  of 
color  is  no  more ;  but  where,  indeed,  it  is  perfectly  immate- 
rial "  what  complexion  an  Indian  or  an  African  sun  may 
have  burned"  on  the  pilgrim. 


HAWTHORNE     MEMORABILIA  IN  THE    NATIONAL  RECORDS 

Kenneth  Walter  Cameron 
Trinity  College 

In  1961,  I  edited  a  number  of  papers  bearing  on  Hawthorne  of  the  cus- 
tom-house period,    and  here  offer  a  few  more  touching  on  his  appointment 
and  removal — as  well  as  a  few  earlier  and  later.   I  am  grateful  to  the 
National  Archives  and  Record  Service,  Washington,  D.C.  20408,  for  placing 
them  at  my  disposal  for  the  use  of  all  those  at  work  in  the  Hawthorne  de- 
partment of  American  letters. 


*  "New  Light  on  Hawthorne's  Removal  from  the  Customs  House,"  E  S  Q ,  no 
23   (II  Quarter  1961),  pp.  2-5. 


145 


Salem  (Mass)  May  31st.  1840. 


Sir, 


I  have  been  requested  to  appeal 
to  you  in  behalf  of  a  young  man,  James 
Cook  by  name,  who  is  now  serving  as  a 
common  seaman  in  the  navy.   Mr.  Cook 
had  been  one  of  the  publishers  of  the 
Salem  Advertiser  (the  leading  Democrat- 
ic paper  in  Essex  county)  from  the  time 
of  its  establishment  till  its  transfer 
to  other  hands — a  space  of  four  or  five 
years.   My  own  acquaintance  with  him  was 
but  slight;  but  I  know  him  to  have  been 
a  man  of  education  and  ability,  and  much 
respected  for  his  exemplary  conduct. 
Some  six  or  eight  months  since,  he  dis- 
appeared from  home;  and  as  his  friends 
could  gain  no  intelligence  of  him,  he 
was  generally  supposed  to  have  committed 
suicide  in  a  fit  of  insanity — an  idea 
which  was  strengthened  by  the  singular- 
ity of  his  deportment,  when  last  seen. 
Nothing  had  since  been  heard  of  him  un- 
til very  recently,  when  a  letter  was  re- 
cieved  by  his  parents,  informing  them 
of  his  enlistment  in  the  navy,  and  that 
he  is  now  at  the  Norfolk  Station,  on 
board  of  the  ship  the  Caroline .   There 
can  be  no  doubt  that  he  took  this  step 
under  the  influence  of  insanity,  both 
because  his  previous  demeanor  indicated 
mental  derangement,  and  because  no  rea- 
sonable motive  is  discoverable  or  imagin- 
able; in  as  much  as  he  thereby  sacrificed 
very  fair  prospects,  and  gave  up  all  the 
advantages  of  prosperous  circumstances 
and  an  unstained  character.   If,  on  con- 
sideration of  the  facts,  you  should 
judge  this  a  case  where  the  rigid  rule 
of  the  service  may  be  relaxed,  you  would 
comfort  the  hearts  of  his  aged  parents, 
who  are  awaiting  your  decision  with 
anxious  hopes.   I  know  not  whether  it  be 
worth  while  to  mention — yet  perhaps  I 
may  say  it  to  Mr.  Paulding,  if  not  to 
the  Secretary  of  the  Navy — that  there  is 
a  young  lady  to  whom  Cook  was  engaged  to 
be  married,  and  who  has  kept  both  her 
faith  and  her  hopes  throughout  the  per- 
iod of  his  absence. 

It  is  with  reluctance,  Sir,  that  I 
have  taken  this  liberty,  as  being  unknown 
to  you  personally,  nor  perhaps  by  reputa- 
tion, and  yet,  apart  from  your  official 
character,  I  cannot  but  feel  it  one  of 
my  birth-rights  to  address  Mr.  Paulding 
who  has  made  himself  the  admired  and 
familiar  friend  of  every  reader  in  the 

land.  _  _   nn 

Respectfully, 

Your   obedient    serv. 

Nathaniel   Hawthorne. 
Hon.    J.    K.    Paulding, 
Secre   of    the  Navy. 


[I   am  grateful   to   David   R.    Proper,    Esq. ,    Li- 
brarian   of    the  Essex   Institute  of    Salem, 
Mass.,    for   the   following   information:      Print- 
er  James   Kennedy  Cook    (or  Cooke)    was   located 
at    Salem   as    a  printer   at   least    as    early   as 
1832,    when,    with   Edward   Palfray,    he  began   the 
Commercial  Advertiser,    the  first   organ   of   the 
modern   Democratic   Party  in   Salem.      This    semi- 
weekly,    issued    on   Wednesdays   and    Saturdays, 
was    sold    on   July   8,    1837,    to  Charles   W.    Wood- 
bury and   became   the  Salem  Advertiser.      Alto- 
gether,   it   lasted    seventeen  years.      Palfray 
and   Cook   also   issued   the    Saturday    Evening 
Bulletin,    a   neutral   paper,    for  one  year  be- 
ginning May   18,    1833. 

James   Kennedy  Cook  married   Catherine  P.    Ware, 
daughter  of    Erastus   Ware,    of  Marblehead,    in 
Salem  on  May   28,    1846.      He  moved   to  Andover, 
where  he    died   in   1884.      His   daughter  Kate 
married   Charles  F.    Foster,    of  Andover   and, 
later,    Chicago.      He  was  mechanical    engineer- 
in-chief    at   the  Chicago  Fair    in   1893    and    at 
the  Atlanta  Exposition   in    1895. 

James  Kennedy  Cook   is   buried    at   Harmony  Grove 
Cemetery    in   Salem,    the  gravestone   indicating 
that   he  was    born   on   Oct.    16,    1809.] 


II 

Boston    29th    Oct.     '45. 

To    the   Hon.    R.    J.    Walker, 
SecY  U.    S.    TreasY- 

Sir  — 

I    understand 
that   the   friends   of    the   administration 
at   Salem,    are   anxious   to   have   Nathl . 
Hawthorne,    Esq.    appointed  Surveyor   at 
that   port.      Mr.   H.    is   a   gentleman  well 
worthy   of   the    confidence   of   the    govern- 
ment  and   of    the   position    solicited   for 
him;    he   possesses   talents   of   the   high- 
est  order,    a  knowledge   of   business, 
and  a   character  without   a  blemish.    I 
am  confident   that   his   appointment   to 
the    Station    in    question  would    [be] 
very   gratifying   to    the    democracy   of 
this    state,    advantageous    to    the    govern- 
ment,   and  popular,    generally,    with    the 
whole   Community  where   the   office   is   lo- 
cated. 

With  much   respect 
Yr   Obt  Svt 

Charles   G.    Greene 

III 
[Hawthorne* s    bond   for   $1,000,    dated    at 
[Salem?],    April   8,    1846,    and    signed   by 
Hawthorne,    Benjamin  F.    Browne,    and    Horace 
L.    Conolly.      Witnessed   by  William  Cross 
and   Edward   H.    Knight.      Attested   by  Robert 
Rantoul,    Jr.,   U.    S.    Attorney  for  Massachu- 
setts.        At   the    end    is   Hawthorne's    affi- 
davit,   of  April   9,    1846,    witnessed   by 
Ephraim  F.   Miller,    Deputy   Collector.] 


146 


t  ///\  /A*  $,  /./  / .  *//#  f  <j  / 


%/>/<ce>      yt!   /*'/•>*  iffy    ■>       -  ufl    (rfCfft&**J    t~J     fi*' 

U 

arc  held  and  firmly  bound  unto  the  United  States  of  America,  in  the  full  and  just  sum 
of  A?/t  C  thousand    dollars,    money    of   the     United 

States;  to  which  payment,  well  and  truly  to  be  made,  we  hind  ourselves,  jointly  and 
severally,  our  joint  anil  several  heirs,  executors  and  administrators,  firmly  Inj  these 
presents.     Scaled  with  our  seals,  and  doled  this      /•'/-?/,//  day  of  /s/s*r\j£m    . 

in  the  year  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  forty-     f'y      — 

THE   CONDITION   OF    TIIK   KOlttiOOINU    OBLIGATION   IS    SUCH,  That, 
whereas  the    President    of  the     United    Stales    hath,    pursuant    to    laiv,  appointed    the    said 

(  '//')  A  A  /•/ / /  //  Ij  jJ/si  *<>  f/?s,/i *    f<*  / At    fy///''   */ <J" *<"** 

Vr;  ///,      $)<j/iA#A~-  a/  (L  ii/styt     /}  /?  s£     /js<<,  t/y     tins/ 

^mj/?e*>{*>   *yf -/**•(/( <,  '<<<  jtr<(    J/-,s/tt  »AA/ /  sA  statist 


</L 


AA< 


/ 


/  / 


/ 


<0  An   O      /r/   <    ////.</ J,  r  (f  y/ /,  Jr  ff. 


7 


NOW,  THtillfiPOllti,  if  the  said  (    A"<  //>  <<  t,  <sC  >A//  a    tA  r  >  />  c 
ha?   truly  and  faithfully  executed   and  discharged,    and    shall   continue    truly    and  faithful f;/ 
to  execute  and  discharge  all  the    duties    of  the  said  office,  according  to  fair  ;    then  the    above 
obligation  to   be  void  and  of  none    effect,   otherwise   it  shall  abide   and    remain    in   full   force 
and  virtue. 


Scalpel  arid  delivered  in  the  presence  of 


y 


rc#$4^{  MO^FcfcruJ 


I 


yl/y^r-fy 


S/J*T    <_ 


&.,. 


'    /       ■    /<    <■    fl- 


/ 


/ 


X 


y 


/  ^  v\  9T  A$ 


-^_   ^    ^2W-^   ^ -A—  My    <*--«-.     '/tA» 

LTr^r>^  , .  .  A... _. ... ..  .?  >7f^^fc:  c_  ^  ./Af.  r  .^^ 


»%~\ 


7* 


NOTF — The  names  to  lie  written  ami  signed  in  full — seals  to  lie  affixed  with  ««  nr  iv.ilu  —  igtiaturuii  to  he  witnessed  hy  t\ 
The  sulikieney  of  the  Sureties  to  lie  certilied  hy  the  United  States  District  Jud^o  or  Attorney. 


147 


I,   c~  yfat-fo-nr/t »  /     i/z/jiJ-ff?  A  i  /i  t-         Inning  Imm-ii  appointed  In  I  he  Office  of 
'//It'  /  */-/  /   /r  >     ^'"  ^f      *     ''/i>l      '<**'*        ','///  t    fy     tfj,,  /  1%/jJ,*,/,-, 


/j   r /' •      /isi'fiLKt     /  f  j    //;.     v*  s  /  /  / 


s>. 


Ms 


/'  '    '  >  r  r/  /    /y  ,,//,, 

do  >olcmnlf,  sincerely,    and    trnlv    die-e.^a^.     I  list  t    I  "will  diligently   sind    l:ii  t  lil'n  1 1  v 

e\ecnle  the  dut  it*s  of  the  said  office  of    S ft  /  t  < ,   </ r  ?    '•'  '    <    -,    J  ■      ,  f  <    , 

sind  vill  n*c  thehest  of  my  endc;m>rs   to   prevent  and  detect  frauds,  in  relation  in  the 

dulie  .  imposed  hy  the  laws  of  the  I'nited  States.      I  further  <./  /^.<-  a     i|,:i|  |  uj|| 
support  the  Constitution  id*  the   I'nited  States. 


</<• 


''(^.s-e^rx uiid  .subscribed  this     --/•-'   „ •,.  /  ^ 


\^/f~/j  .  In  inn  nt< .      M  itiicss  mi/  hand  and  seal. 


>/£,» 


dan  "/.Y/   '    /   tf 


u/y 


°&tyj  fc ,  '&u>  7v 


^-r-rt 


IV 

Surveyor's  Office, 
Salem,  August  27th,  1846. 

Sir, 

I  enclose  a  letter  from  two  respec- 
table merchants,  calling  in  question  the 
accuracy  of  the  hydrometer  in  use  at  this 
Custom  House,  for  testing  the  proof  of  do- 
mestic spirits*   Similar  complaints  hare 
heretofore  been  made*   On  comparing  this 
instrument,  a  few  days  since,  with  one 
used  at  the  Boston  Custom  House,  I  found 
a  difference  of  between  fire  and  six  de- 
grees; the  Boston  instrument  being,  to 
that  extent,  more  farorable  to  the  ex- 
porter. 

I  beg  leave  to  ask  the  instructions 
of  the  Department,  whether  I  am  to  con- 
sider the  Boston  instrument  as  a  standard 
one,  and  am  authorized  to  adjust  the 
proof  of  spirits  at  this  port,  in  accor- 
dance with  it? 

Respectfully,  Sir, 
Your  Obedient  Senr* 
Nath.^*  Hawthorne, 

Surveyor 
Hon.  Robert  J.  Walker, 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 

Washington,  D.  C. 


o 


M  4\ 


148 


Surveyor's  Office 
October  19th  1846. 
Sir, 

I  beg  leave  to  call  your  attention 
to  the  following  subjects :- 

The  portico  of  the  Custom  House 
stands  in  need  of  a  thorough  repair. 
The  wood-work  is  considerably  decayed; 
and  the  ceiling  and  exterior  covering 
of  tin,  require  to  be  renewed.   Some 
slight  repairs  are  likewise  necessary 
in  other  parts  of  the  edifice. 

I  would  also  suggest  the  expedien- 
cy of  causing  one  of  the  chambers,  in 
the  second  story  of  the  Custom  House, 
to  be  fitted  up  for  the  accommodation 
of  the  Inspectors.   Much  inconvenience 
is  often  experienced,  as  respects  the 
business  of  this  office,  from  the  fact 
that  they  have,  at  present,  no  stated 
place  of  rendezvous.   The  nature  of 
their  duty  renders  it  especially  desir- 
able that  this  class  of  officers  should 
be  constantly  within  call  of  the  Survey- 
or, but,  having  no  apartment  assigned 
them,  either  within  the  Custom  House  or 
elsewhere,  this  object  is  impossible  to 
be  attained.   I  would  the  more  earnest- 
ly offer  the  subject  to  your  notice, 
from  considerations  referring  to  the 
comfort  of  the  Inspectors  themselves. 

Judging  from  estimates  made  by  a 
competent  person,  I  am  led  to  believe 
that  the  repairs  &c .  above  suggested, 
may  be  completed  at  an  expense  certain- 
ly not  exceeding  $300.  and  perhaps  con- 
siderably within  that  amount. 

Respectfully,  Sir, 
Your  obedient  Serv't 

Nath1  Hawthorne, 
Surveyor . 
Gen  James  Miller 

Collector  &c. 
Salem. 


VI 

Surveyor's  Office,  Salem. 
March  17th.  1847 
Sir, 

The  enclosed  letter  refers  to 
seventy-five  hogsheads  of  rum,  which 
were  exported  in  the  Brig  Tigris  of 
this  port,  in  May  last,  and  on  which 
the  debenture  was  refused,  because  the 
hydrometer  then  in  use  here  caused  it 
to  appear  below  proof.   Our  present  hy- 
drometer, which  agrees  precisely  with 
the  one  used  in  the  Boston  Custom  House, 
would  have  made  it  considerably  above 
proof.   In  accordance  with  instructions 
from  the  Department,  the  debenture  was 


allowed  on  a  quantity  of  rum  exported 
in  the  Cuba,  on  the  25th.  of  August 
last,  which  was  likewise  below  the 
proof  of  our  old  hydrometer,  but  was 
above  the  Boston  standard.   The  circum- 
stances being  precisely  the  same  in 
both  cases,  it  would  appear  that  the 
claim  alluded  to  in  the  enclosed  let- 
ter should  be  adjusted  on  the  same  prin- 

p   *      Respectfully, 

Your  obedient  serv. 
Nath   Hawthorne, 
Surveyor. 
General  James  Miller 
Collector  &c. 


VII 

Boston  19.  June  1849. 

To  Wm.  M.  Meredith  Esq. 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury  of  the  U.S. 

Dear  Sir, 

In  common  with  other  persons 
engaged  in  literary  pursuits  in  this 
part  of  the  country,  I  was  glad  to 
learn  some  years  ago,  that  Mr.  Hawthorne 
had  received  a  place  in  the  Customs 
whose  salary  would  give  the  bread  they 
needed  to  his  wife  &  children.   Like 
others,  I  have  lately  been  pained  to 
learn,  that  his  removal  from  office 
throws  him  back  again  to  poverty. 

I  recommend  nobody  for  govern- 
ment patronage.   I  am  a  Whig  of  the  eld- 
er school  &  busy  myself  with  party  poli- 
ticks no  further  than  to  vote.   But,  in 
the  particular  position,  in  which  Mr. 
Hawthorne  now  stands,  I  feel  bound  to 
say,  that,  from  all  I  have  heard  from 
trustworthy  sources,  I  am  satisfied 
that  while  he  is  a  Democrat,  he  is  a 
retired,  quiet  and  inoffensive  one; 
rarely  voting  and  never  writing  politi- 
cal articles  for  the  newspapers  or  other 
periodicals  of  his  party;  as  sensitive 
in  his  nature,  as  any  body  from  his 
books,  might  infer  him  to  be;  and  as 
little  of  a  practical  Democrat  as  he 
can  be  and  yet  profess  the  Democratick 
faith. 

Thus  much,  as  I  have  intima- 
ted, I  feel  it  a  duty  to  say  in  favor 
of  one,  who  is  rather  a  man  of  letters 
than  any  thing  else.   Let  me  add,  that 
I  say  it  the  more  willingly,  because 
my  words  are  addressed  to  one  whose 
manly  and  independent  character  has 
been  known  to  me  from  his  boyhood,  and 
whose  love  of  intellectual  pursuits  in- 
sures his  sympathy  for  a  man  of  genius 
and  refinement,  who  would  gladly  devote 
himself  to  them  entirely. 


149 


Your  friend  &  Servant 
George  Ticknor. 

VIII 
New  York.  June  22.  1849. 


Dear  Sir, 

It  is 
est  that  I 


a  matter  of  national  inter- 


take  the  liberty  of  intrud- 
ing on  you  a  letter  in  regard  to  the  re- 
cent removal  of  Hawthorne  from  his  lit- 
tle office  as  Surveyor  of  the  Customs  at 
Salem,  Mass. 

Feeling  satisfied  that  it  must  have 
been  made  under  misapprehension,  and  be- 
lieving that  its  recall  would  be  an  act 
eminently  graceful  to  the  administra- 
tion &  creditable  to  the  country,  I  beg 
leave  to  submit  to  you  the  enclosed 
refutation  of  the  charges  against  him. 

Every  Whig  with  whom  I  have  con- 
versed on  the  subject  (including  Gover- 
nor Fish)  has  united  in  expressions  of 
surprise  &  great  regret  at  this  remov- 
al.  I  believe  it  calculated  to  do  more 
moral  damage  to  the  Administration  than 
five  hundred  ordinary  cases  of  removal. 

As  Editor  of  the  Democratic  Re- 
view in  former  years,  I  can  testify  to 
the  truth  of  the  statement  that  he  nev- 
er wrote  a  political  line  for  that  work. 
As  a  personal  friend,  and  a  poor  man  of 
letters,  he  furnished  for  it  some  of 
the  most  exquisite  gems  of  pure  liter- 
ature that  adorn  the  language.   I  should 
as  soon  have  dreamed  of  applying  to  a 
nightingale  to  scream  like  a  vulture, 
as  of  asking  Hawthorne  to  write  politics, 

In  personal  character,  both  he  and 
his  wife  &  children  are  as  lovely  and 
delightful  as  the  genius  of  his  own  writ- 
ings.  He  is  as  retired  as  a  hermit,  as 
gentle  as  a  girl,  as  shy  as  a  deer,  with, 
at  the  same  time,  the  highest  attributes 
of  the  man  of  principle,  honor  and 
heart.   Singularly  combining  the  practi- 
cal talent  &  good  sense  of  the  Yankee 
mind,  with  the  imaginative  genius  of 
the  poet,  he  has  always  discharged  the 
duties  of  his  office  in  the  most  exem- 
plary manner.   I  speak  on  the  authority 
of  Mr.  Bancroft  under  whose  Collector- 
ship  at  Boston  he  filled  for  a  couple 
of  years  the  most  uncongenial  office  of 
a  Measurer.   Unlike  the  Pegasus  of 
Schiller,  he  could  draw  the  plough  as 
well  as  though  the  empyrean  were  not 
his  proper  sphere. 

Permit  me  to  ask  your  attention 
to  the  following  short  extract  which  I 
cut  from  the  Albany  Atlas: 


Olllclal  Removal. 

NiTH»Nitx  Hawtlorni:  (the  author  of  "  Twice-Told 
Tales),  bai  been  removeJ  from  the  oflice  of  Surveyor  of 
the  Port  ol  Salem,  to  make  place  for  a  Whig. 

Hawthorne  removed!  Can  it  be  possible.' 
If  Gen.  Taylor  had  come  in  with  tin:  extremest 
professions  of  the  "  spoils "  doctrine,  slill  we 
should  never  have  dreamed  of  witnessing  such  an 
Upr/lication  of  it !  If  every  other  democratic  in- 
cumbentit?/  office  had  been  swept  by  the  board, 
we  should  still  h."'e  looked  to  see  an  exception 
made  in  the  case  of  the  ^V""8  Rma  of  our  Ame- 
rican literature.  When  the  ru'.V.'ess  conqu;;or 
?ave  all  the  rest  of  the  Thebes  to  the  torch  and 
sword,  he  commanded  his  soldiers  to  spare  the 
home  of  Pindar.  Why,  this  act  is  perfectly  dis- 
gusting. Whose  art  is  it .'  What  influence  caused 
it?  Certain  are  we  that  neither  Gen.  Taylor  nor 
Mr.  Meredith  could  have  been  aware  of  what  they 
were  doing,  in  removing  Hawthorne  from  the 
modest  little  office  which  he  honored  by  filling. 
They  could  not  have  known  that  it  was  th?  Haw- 
thorne. The  man  who  would  knowingly  com- 
mit such  an  act  would  broil  a  humming-bird,  and 
break  a  harp  to  pieces  to  make  the  fire. 


Though  neither  a  political  friend 
nor  a  personal  acquaintance,  I  hope  you 
will  consider  this  letter  justified  by 
my  solicitude  for  the  credit  of  our 
country  &  institutions.   I  presume  no 
further  than  thus  to  lay  before  you, 
for  your  information,  the  facts  &  state- 
ments it  contains  &  encloses. 

Very  Respectfully, 

Your  obedient  servant, 

J.  L.  0 'Sullivan 
Hon  .  Mr.  Meredith,  Sec?  of  Treasury. 


IX 

Advertiser  Office, 
Salem,  Mass., 
June  30,  1849. 
Dear  Sir, 

I  have  been  not  less  surprised  than 
flattered  to  notice  that  the  authorship 
of  the  political  articles  published  in 
the  humble  journal  with  which  I  am  con- 
nected, have  been  attributed  to  you; 
and  I  have  taken  the  liberty  to  ad- 
dress to  you  a  letter  denying  that  you 
have  ever  written  a  line  of  political 
matter  for  the  Salem  Advertiser.   As 
you  are  aware,  since  I  have  occupied 
the  editorial  chair  of  the  Advertiser, 
— a  period  of  about  three  years, — on- 
ly two  articles  from  your  pen  have 
appeared  in  its  columns :  one  a  notice 
of  a  dramatic  company,  the  other  a  no- 
tice of  Longfellow's  "Evangeline." 

I  am  also  surprised  to  hear  you 
charged  with  being  a  partisan  leader, 
while  every  one  acquainted  with  your 
character  and  habits,  knows  that  so 
far  from  taking  an  active  part  in 


150 


politics,  you  have  never  attended  any 
meetings  or  conventions  of  the  party, 
and  have  frequently  neglected  even  the 
privilege  of  the  American  citizen  at  the 
ballot-box. 

Respectfully  yours, 

Eben.  N.  Walton, 

Editor  Salem  Advertiser 

N.  Hawthorne,  Esq. 


Salem,  June  29.  1849. 
My  dear  Sir, 

In  view  of  the  recent  unfounded 
charges  against  you  as  a  Politician  pub- 
lished in  the  Whig  Prints,  will  you  per- 
mit me  to  volunteer  my  testimony  to 
their  falsity,    it  is  a  source  of  much 
gratification  to  me,  that  I  think  I  can 
completely  exonerate  you  from  the  knowl- 
edge of  any  of  the  details  of  party  poli- 
tics here,   it  might  be  a  matter  of  sur- 
prise to  any  one  who  was  not  so  conver- 
sant as  myself  with  the  recklessness  of 
Party  assertions,  that  any  one  would 
dare  risk  their  reputation  as  Politicians 
by  making  such  an  absurd  charge  and  one 
so  utterly  foreign  to  your  nature  as 
this,  but  knowing  as  you  do,  the  utter 
falsity  of  the  charge  I  trust  it  gives 
you  no  uneasiness. 

The  Whig  Party  here  have  always 
charged  me  with  doing  every  thing  per- 
taining to  Party  management  with  the  Of- 
ficers at  the  Custom  House  and  Mr  Chap- 
man the  Editor  of  the  Register  admitted 
this  in  a  conversation  with  one  of  the 
Officers, — whom  I  suspect  he  was  attempt- 
ing to  bribe  with  the  hope  of  holding 
his  office  if  he  told  a  good  story, 
against  you — I  say  Mr  Chapman  admitted 
that  he  knew  I  was  the  one,  but  that  it 
was  necessary  just  now  to  lay  it  at  your 
door. 

I  can  truly  assert  as  a  fact  within 
my  own  knowledge,  that  you  never  had  any 
cognisance  of  party  matters  here,  of  the 
necessary  means  of  carrying  on  an  elec- 
tion, of  any  party  subscription,  of  the 
amount  of  money,  how,  or  by  whom  it  was 
raised,  that  you  never  attended  any  of 
our  party  drills  or  caucuses  or  allowed 
your  name  to  be  used  in  any  manner  by  the 
Party,  and  that  any  charge  against  you 
on  either  of  these  points  is  false 

With  high  respect 

I  am  most  truly  yours 

Z  Burchmore  jr 
N.  Hawthorne  esqr 


XI 
Salem  Mass.  July  7,  1849 

Hon.  W?  M.  Meredith 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
Sir 

The  Whigs  of  Salem,  at  two  very 
full  meetings,  have  formally  and  of- 
ficially expressed  their  views  in  ref- 
erence to  our  Custom  House —   I  hope 
to  start  early  next  week  to  present  to 
you  personally  the  results  of  their 
action — 

I  will  only  say,  at  present,  that 
they  declared,  with  earnest  unanimity, 
their  hearty  approval  of  the  removal 
of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  and  the  appoint- 
ment of  Captain  Allen  Putnam — 

I  shall  have  the  honor  of  commu- 
nicating to  you  their  views  and  feel- 
ings, in  reference  to  the  extraordi- 
nary interference  of  persons,  unac- 
quainted with  the  circumstances,  in 
this  transaction,  in  a  written  docu- 
ment, which,  I  trust,  will  satisfy  you 
that  the  Whigs  of  Salem  are  fully  en- 
titled to  the  confidence  of  the  ad- 
ministration 

They  also  expressed  their  views 
in  reference  to  the  Collectorship,  and 
naval  office — 

Their  proceedings,  on  all  points, 
will  be  laid  before  you — 

Most  respectfully  your  obedient 
Servant 

Charles  W.  Upham 


XII 

West  Newton,  July  5^  1849. 

Hon.  W™  Meredith, 
it 

Dear  Sir. 

Will  you  permit  me  to  say  a  word, 
in  regard  to  the  contemplated  removal 
from  office,  of  Nath*  Hawthorne  Esq. 
of  Salem. 

I  enclose  a  letter  from  Mr.  Haw- 
thorne to  G.  S.  Hillard  Esq.,  of  Bos- 
ton, which  was  published  in  the  Bos- 
ton Daily  Advertiser.  Its  statements 
I  believe  to  be  literally  true,  & 
that  they  can  be  substantiated  by  in- 
contestible  evidence. 

Mr.  Hawthorne  is  charged  with  be- 
ing a  contributor  of  political  articles 
to  the  Democratic  Review.   Mr.  O'Sulli- 
van,  former  Editor  of  the  Review  can, 
(if  he  has  not  already)  disprove  this 


151 
charge .   Mr .  Hawthorne  denies  it .   He  is 
charged  with  being  a  political  corres- 
pondent of  the  Salem  Advertiser.   Accom- 
panying this,  is  the  letter  of  Mr.  Wel- 
ton,  the  Editor  of  that  paper,  from 
which  the  falsity  of  this  charge  will  al- 
so appear. 

To  show  that  Mr.  Hawthorne  has  not 
been  an  active  political  partisan, — nor, 
indeed,  a  partisan  at  all,  I  forward  a 
certificate  of  four  gentlemen,  whose 
knowledge  of  all  Mr.  Hawthorne's  move- 
ments has  been  uninterrupted  &  intimate, 
— like  that  of  eye-witnesses.   Mr.  Bar- 
stow  is  President  of  the  Hickory  Club, 
&  a  member  of  the  Democratic  State  Com- 
mittee.  Mr.  Burchmore  is  Chm  of  the 
Democratic  Congressional  District  Com- 
mittee  Mr.  Pike  is  Ch_  of  the  Democrat- 
ic County  Committee.   Mr.  Browne  is  the 
late  Post-Master  at  Salem.   For  the  fact, 
then,  that  Mr.  Hawthorne  has  been  a  non- 
combatant  in  politics,  you  have  the  pos- 
itive testimony  of  these  four  gentlemen, 
— with  the  further  evidence  that,  if 
their  testimony  were  not  true,  Mr.  Haw- 
thorne would  not  allow  it  to  be  used. 
But  I  believe  them  to  be  gentlemen  whose 
word  can  be  relied  on.   Mr.  Barstow,  for 
instance,  I  know  as  President  of  the 
Salem  Lyceum, — an  institution  that  num- 
bers among  its  members  many  of  the  most 
respectable  people  of  Salem. 

I  know  that  active  partisanship  is 
utterly  repugnant  to  Mr.  Hawthorn's  [ sic] 
nature;  &  that,  having  received  his  ap- 
pointment in  recognition  of  his  literary 
character,  he  has  held  it  to  be  morally 
wrong  to  administer  it  as  a  politician. 

The  question  then  arises  whether  it 
becomes  the  administration  of  General 
Taylor,  after  all  his  declarations  about 
being  the  President  of  the  country  &  not 
of  a  party;  &  especially  after  the  solemn, 
oath-like  assurances  contained  in  his  In- 
augural, to  remove  officers  for  opinion's 
sake .   Will  not  such  a  measure  harm  the 
author  a  thousand  times  more  than  it  will 
the  object? 

In  this  country,  too,  is  not  liter- 
ary merit,  (provided  it  is  accompanied 
with  the  requisite  business  qualifica- 
tions, )  a  fair  ground  of  appointment  to 
office,  &  of  holding  it  when  appointed? 
The  President  is  not,  &  cannot  be  an 
official  Maecenas.   He  has  no  literary 
offices  or  honors,  or  pensions  in  his 
gift.   Except  thro1  the  Patent  Office, 
the  administration  can  hardly  recognize 
such  a  thing  as  literature  &  science. 
If,  then,  in  its  appointments,  it  shows 
no  affinity,  no  sympathy,  no  regard,  for 
men  of  distinguished  scientific  attain- 


ments or  literary  merit,  does  it  not 
write  itself  down  as  barbarian? 

Permit  me  to  add  further,  in  be- 
half of  Mr.  Hawthorne,  that  if  there 
[are]  any  other  charges,  than  those 
above  referred  to,  exhibited  against 
him,  &  he  can  be  favored  with  a  copy 
of  them,  they  shall  be  defended,  ex- 
plained or  disproved,  or  his  friends 
here  will  no  longer  deprecate  the  fall- 
ing of  the  axe . 

The  general  opinion  of  the  whigs, 
here,  so  far  as  I  can  learn  is  that 
the  administration,  in  this  instance, 
has  been  imposed  upon;  &  that  it  will 
rejoice  in  any  information  that  will 
save  it  from  taking  a  wrong  step.   It 
is  under  these  impressions  that  I  have 
written  th[e]  above,   Excuse  the 
length  of  this  letter,  &  believe  me  to 
be 

With  sentiments  of  high  personal 
regard,  I  am  your  friend  &  servant, 

Horace  Mann. 


XIII 

Department  of  State, 

Washington,  June  9"  1853. 

Hon.  James  Guthrie 

Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

Sir, 

I  have  the  honor  to  transmit, 
herewith,  the  Official  Bond,  approved, 
of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  Esq.  appointed 
Consul  of  the  United  States  for  the 
Port  of  Liverpool. 

With  high  respect, 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  obedient  servant, 

W.  L.  Marcy. 

XIV 

Consulate  of  the  United  States, 
Liverpool,  Feb  13th  1857 

Sir, 

I  beg  permission  to  resign  my 
office  as  Consul  of  the  United  States 
at  this  Port,  from  and  after  the  date 
of  August  thirty-first,  1857. 

Very  Respectfully, 

Your  Obedient  Serv  t, 

Nath   Hawthorne. 

To 

The  President  of  the  United  States. 


152 


Know  all  ill  en  bn  tljcsc  J3:rcscitt3, 


\ 


vi 


1 


a/t    /,//(/  </////  Xt//n/t/    f-tf/ftf/,    fo   /Ate     JUfiute<)    ihato    of    ^Dmeiica,    *«    /«•?   ff//W 
(■/ -e*-y  s'z  ^  \S\<HV>atu)  (Wlau,  money  cA /A*  <*atcA '-yA/h/so' '  r?'/a/c-j,  /o  /Ac  6<zy- 
/»/-»/  >/>//////</  //ir  /<f>//7  f>///  t,//<r.i)  j//v//y  f/ »//.i,  fr/f/////,  or/P  /em/  ana   ir?,'rzaA 
Atctij,  i ::recn/<  /t    <///// a</t/i*nuf//a/o/-i.  'Jltinrfo  oaP  nanaj  and icafo,  /At4 


The   tomtit  ion  of  the  above   furtigation  i*  such,     Q'naS  iA  /Ae  avovt 


k      M^,,~^r^u 


<*nau  /ru/y  ana  Aat/nJu/iu  ett-jenau/e  /Ate  auhe-j  cA  Afj  tata  oAAcce,  accota- 
<r?a  /o  /aw,  ana  auto  ina/A  /ra/y  acroun/  AoP  a/A  money*,  aooaU  ana 
e/Atefa,  uwen  -may  ccmr  f??/c  Ac-j  fto/vf-Mc//  Ay  i-ii/ae  oA  /A#,  taut*  oA  /A>s 
^cAntAca  Gy/a/n,  oP  oA  At<f  *aia  oA/tce,  /nen  Ins,  aAot^e  oAAtya/u>n  /c  tie 
foia,  etA>ff-i//t<4f  /o  remain  in  AuAe  Ao 


fores. 


Signed,  sealed,  and  delivered,  f 
in  the  presence  of  S 


153 


'x  -J.*.  i  (         /0<y   /  «^a    '- ,        e^ 


^w£>     A^A  <r^A^-    <^~7U*-   /lA^+U^     /S^-e^ 


/ 


i/>  i. 


*-/■- 


AMERICAN  TRANSCENDENTAL  QUARTERLY 

JOURNAL  OF  NEW  ENGLAND  WRITERS 

DRAWER  1080 

HARTFORD,  CONNECTICUT  06101 


YOUNG  POE   AND  THE   ARM?— VICTORIAN   EDITING 


Kenneth  Wolter  Cameron 
Trinity  College 


Because  George  E.  Woodberry ' s  researches  were  conducted  in  days  before  photo- 
stating and  xerox  prints,  he  was  obliged  to  depend  upon  copies  of  the  Poe  papers 
in  the  Adjutant  General's  Office,  prepared  by  Army  clerks.   Many  of  the  docu- 
ments and  transcripts  edited  from  the  collection  in  the  Valentine  Museum,  in 
Richmond,  moreover,  show  evidences  of  editorial  liberties  which  are  no  longer 
sanctioned  by  exact  scholarship.   In  submitting  a  sheaf  of  the  original  State 
Papers,  I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  our  most  competent  scholarly  works 
like  Arthur  Hobson  Quinn's  Edgar  Allan  Poe  still  reprint  the  badly  edited  tran- 
scripts, as  may  be  seen  in  a  single  example.   Compare  the  following  transcript 
of  pages  164-165  below  (John  Allan's  letter  to  John  H.  Eaton  of  May  6,  1829) 
with  the  version  Quinn  gives  on  pages  136-137  and  note  the  FORTY  or  more  dis- 
crepancies in  spelling,  punctuation,  capitalization  and  paragraphing! 


Richmond  May  6 


th 


1829 


D  sir, 

The  youth  who  presents  this,  is  the 
same  alluded  to  by  L.  Harvard  CapV  Griswold 
Col?  Worth  our  representative  &  the  speaker 
the  Hon'ble  Andrew  Stevenson  and  my  Friend 
Maj^  Jn£  Campbell.   He  left  me  in  consequence 
of  some  Gambling  at  the  university  at  Char- 
lottesville, because  (I  presume;  I  refused 
to  sanction  a  rule  that  the  shopkeepers  & 
others  had  adopted  there,  making  Debts  of 
Honour,  of  all  indiscretions  -   I  have 
much  pleasure  in  asserting  that  He  stood 
his  examination  at  the  close  of  the  year 
with  great  credit  to  himself.    His  History 
is  short   He  is  the  Grandson  of  Quarter  Mas- 
ter Gen-1-  Poe  of  Maryland;  whose  widow  as  I 
understand  still  receives  a  pension  for  the 
Services  or  disabilities  of  Her  Husband  - 
Frankly  Sir,  do  I  declare  that  He  is  no  rela- 
tion to  me  whatever;  that  I  have  many  [in] 
whom  I  have  taken  an  active  Interest  to  pro- 
mote thiers;  with  no  other  feeling  than  that; 
every  Man  is  my  care,  if  he  be  in  distress; 
for  myself  I  ask  nothing  but  I  do  request 
your  kindness  to  aid  this  youth  in  the  promo- 
tion of  his  future  prospects  -  and  it  will 
offer  me  great  pleasure  to  reciprocate  any 
kindness  you  can  shew  him  -  -  pardon  my 
Frankness;  -  but  I  address  a  Soldier 

rsy  yr   s^ 

John  Allan 


i  <— > 

«    a  t 

U     O  Q 

®    i-t  • 

* 

»   55  •> 

0  O 

rH     «  O 

•h  -a  +> 

S-P  no 

•h  a 

v  ■£  a 

•)  n 

«n  <r)  * 

<s>  * 

bO  t< 

e  h  * 

•h    ft  n 

*       Fm  • 

o    Ft  ► 

rH    a  <h 

H  A 

O     t->  (J 

«H   H  U 

9     C 

A    -H  rH 


155 


&C~- '     >^Sm-^2 


M~ 


&-*-*- 


^«-< 


^j£X.~  <i~*£>*~ 


~~7 


t?TZA^ 


/ 


*&£L> 


/T^»    /&&  «*■■»/  X^*  «*«  «  - 


? 


x*.  *.-+.* 


^C—»    ^4rT+**ry^ 


STln^C-fi 


<Sr£~.  /^^v 


157 


cz JL 


A 


Jk^iP 


+*/   'T,/yvy**+iji>7n*f 


Ummmt 


r.  /#•#   f+r 


* 


3- 


^ 


^4 


m—-* 


158 


/y. 


-TZrAj  s&..~  >-.  €,*■■*<&*  *y 


A 


L±,        \^-C*- 


C-<^--r 


f  ^y*^ 


c^-^L  /*^~D  &?£+ 


^** 


/^     j/u?'&^* 


/£*££  ^/^sx^<^/^ 


A— +—7 


■Crjt  4--C*-<~S^£+- 


^.~£ 


s 


./ 


7?£^s_,L 


159 


&*ts>^/< 


"to* 


*■ 


>X*-t<7        ^^t^^t^KT    __        ^2,-t-T3> 


</ 


160 


J>  %-r 


ftcUtnsrtf    9ft  A<  /•  4*2 f. 


c^K^i 


'  .  St 


fit      /> 


>s*  f/v  \ 


-  s 


C7/;     *./.* 


r* 


/* 


o-Q 


/•    A 


W" 


ft  c  '  oaMI 


Zr 


fyWi/Ct 


#. 


f 


a  Ax 


/scj  r/ A&r  ' 


161 


n 


/ 


i~*l*l. 


/ 


162 


Cszl&J *>*+i^*c    6     //t^y  /blc 


^■*i«W 


163 


'  Zfy  *r~l,  l+j 


r  ♦  * 


164 


/#?**(> 


t/»  /"V« 


C4^C^< 


^/^  y  '         -ys 

y     -        J&    /V^t+^/Z'  **■**    yfo 


/Y~L     /*&    jj/ */>*<*/.*     ^o&C**    X*2  eJ'/Yh 

^O/j^^tyh^      —      ^yy*ft*ds.0t*isr*A>//fr<*-S-6***-    ** — 

4t/S*>  rf^r      ?/%*-£     &*     ^/Z7T  X/j      ^jws*-*"**  *~~ 
XSe*/    y/'cxt^v   t***t^2~     6****vy- 


CA44S-' 


"a**/ 


1«S 


*  £~~<    ^^  y&Juk 


£4<^. 


ST-/S**~4*     C  A^>  €  *%-         €*/u-t         jr*-~r  mr^.m  —w^w —        ~        (\  ' 


^V 


.? 


J  C'Tt- 


^> 


166 


4*~u 


JaX'jo    kU*^+~s-   nnru~~   A**    n+/*^  A^nrwCct^C***  *     a^~3  irpt^r^ 
*aL~      oUZ~r^Lj    4*CZ}  f^C2>      ftz*-.    fa. 


H*U±U 


4\rn%*r-  *ftt<_      <jfm*fir*J*/  <v«*0     c/^vSl>  ><^crtX//  m«.?  y^nrxO 


£*%*/*■ *t»  -  * *J  .        XurwiAsCU*-    /h+*TZ—    r««»^/». 


167 


t 


F> 


■-    i 


$<' 


/WtLdsfa*^ 


i*7^. 


* 
^ 


.o 


*s 


v 


m 


168 


#/  tut  /1  r,  /  t  c/&tS 


^n^A.    ./3  :  /f$0 


ft***-        /ysti-^      -     tip.**.-?**-*- 


r  y  > 


y      ^  /«_<_.        /  t-*»   *.    *    « 


'/' 


z'  ^rv  /       ^-c  *.        .'J    -/V 


r/2  c  c 


z'  <  <         (.      J.      I. 


<.  ^ 


A 


C  i.^  J.     c 


/ 


/ 


^'. 

^/t 

w-/*'*- 

„ 

r     '   .' 

. 

fc*.v 

<-  ._ 

p 

<r^- 

c 


^.  -<    «     «_^       <Vv    r'*?*    ^-  <••'      <="~ 


/&  c   t.  %.        ,S  /  \~ 

(St    /  (    4...  •/' S*-       '      *"" 


/ 


a  * 


C"    cf7^ur. 


C    ^-<C»- 


C7"-.. 


._     ^-V 


<^^^ 


9  .._-> 


►    <^   c^«.«> 


,^> 


*A^  -J-— 


169 


L 


^T 


££~ 


^ 


•J2- c*~  rs >  „ 


""/*'/€ 


4-z-ls/ 


r 

J 


170 


(' 


(*# 


//  fjd'  <•  //"  s^c . 


?///"  " 


^£/«  //> 


>3 


°s 


CM 


I  >i^ 


^: 


5 


^ 


^ 


x 


*>* 


v3 


171 


£u&&t**4,  a^i&J 


th4U46+udU+u*t 


a. 


trek*  -f<*dai.  * \Jr — 

AXtl.  4tu+**  f/h  4*u*  *44M  ^JUxfTJ*  tuAefatr,  tyMAi&t* 

tn^Hty  tnui******  fi*t"lfc  hiUy  4*  d*</+tu  z-+*~uUlfi(f»>  A/4  M* 

f         ^  ffi^  Ttrnr^  &u*^,  fr  &£#.  y  .        . 


172 


«*t 


a««,v^w^. 


\xe-vK,  t  *c'Cs\AM 


t.  ioiS  fo  live'  *?4*fc*v  ^Y  C\ia  *4^{tvmlTm<'tii'  <**  OfiiyavtV  i)U<*i*r 

i\\**kw  W((  cf  tViC    (UtWT4^    2>**U^    e\Gl4**4l^   21,  |&Li].(tt    %£ 

Tibi>vCc^  tow**wt  frv  $i%li^  at  3itt   ?U<m**4.1  r£%.  H,uN  ^  i(%4r, 


173 


n-rur^  -*****,  ,■  fat*  Cfau6&f$r%^  . 


*W)V^ 


'  ■** 90  W)  r  ~^S   » 


/  /  //  ' 


G0W6  4*  nj  TtoArri  fl^kTi 


:Uhn4/  (/m&&«r. 


/ 


7h^k 


174 

WAR  DEPARTMENT 
Washington  City 


i4(ju  dt**,  J*** : 


7 

f«44u/«Mj  m-  e*fa  rf  lAi   *jt*<*«A   /t(tt*.  +1  mj^fU+4—*****  +/    &*(*+* 


vftmsftomy  . 

C-OM  sufbfy,  %/{***•  &Ai  A***0T  /*  4*Jm—  JU0++  /AmJ  44*i  ft***.  */ 

tf  *+>*JtJ**-~t  m/yk—tUnts—4 (t+4*U*  *f  tvAiU,  arm*  m+4  mi  dJkiU 
*f  *+rA*tJ*  «/««4t/rM»(    m~^jt  mrAt*4*t   4J+%*.   §m4&  *4m*tm  %t   4»»»»f«t    ~A 


175 


t¥*Um%%%9<L  AAV  4*J**imm4*m*    mm  tm  my 

Cm**S**t   im  4*  A**m4tm>,    ±4  mAJ*t~*    4 And  Hm  %%%+*J ****>,   wAmS***', 
mumm4*    mi  FWm*    mmg.*4*    ft— %•**%—*  tftAt    At*  mAA—mtmf*4  m 


**4j    4**-*t   mf+*mUmm    r»»   lAl    JJmmi-mX mi  *+U  *f  tmmUX  dmi+A, 

XSmmmm  A*  it9i,  m*A*U>  ++Jkmr4m    AJt  mj+  «#  *uam%4—m>§fj  y 
Am  jj)  smmmHm    «/  dmim  mf  m4t«J~~~JU4y  U.  A 


No.  //J 

HEADQUARTERS 


$mtc.l    $ tatc«    $rfillcrji    ^School, 

Fort  Monroe,  Virginia,  ^^/l****^  St0.      188**r4 


^^4Zs<l~^c**_^£--*i,   ^r\TT~u  , 


<s 


&%Ck         (~i/yC&^l^l*<^t*^       fy  *^6^e^^<       /&*-^-^  /<2^jC«-^*/-t/ 


/e^r^P     *£*~^  s^*^c  ~S  ^*^i)-o  <-<*^£      y/^f^^/  <£3&t.r^>7t+-~rt 

/fat?-     &,     c^/>^>#    ^ 


./c.  ^ 


177 


f'orl  ^"Vorjroc.    VinairjiGi. 


abruary  Stith,  1887, 


Tho  Adjutant    Jonoral,  U.S. Army, 

Wnshinpftion,  P.O. 
Sir:- 

Roforrinj*  to  a  letter   from  your  office,  datod  Juno  •>1.h,W4l 
and  juy   roply   datod  Juno    [3th,   1884,   roajnrdinrj  i'ld.-^ar   A.Porry    (Pou  ) 
1st  Artillery,  I   havo  the  honor  to  say  that  in  a   further  axnraina- 
tion  of  the  re  orde  of  this  post  I    find  tho    followinrr:- 
■Special  Orders,  No.    91,   Fortress  Monroe //a.  ,  Hoc.    20th,   1828. ■ 

"Privata  ;;.  A.  Perry,  (Company    "Ii1   1st  Artillery,  do-' 

■tailed   for  duty  in  tho  Adjutant's  Office".  ,        /  ' 

,?,'arch  30th,  1829. Letter  to  headquarters  ^n^ineorinej  ha-" 

■partment  requesting  the  discharge  of  Serjeant  ^a-jor    '.d^ar   A. Perry' 
■1st  Artillery".  %J\        , 

"Special  Orders  No.   28,  Headquarters  Mnrcinoorinpj  nepartmont-. 
■ni8charp;es  Sergeant  l,'a,v  v    id-^ar  A.Perry,   fat  Artillery.- 

It  has  also  been -found  that  tho  ,:oad  quarter  a  of  tho  1st  Ar-  ' 
tillery  remained  here  till  September  2(Jth,  1831,  when  it  was  charu*- 
ed  by  Ardors  Uo.    fc3,  A.t'J.O.  ,  September  2tith,  £831. 

Very  respectfully,  your  ohdt.    svt.   • 

Colonel  1st  Artillery . 

[Jno.  C.  Tidball]        CS  ^ 

Command  in  jr.  "  '• 


178 


Fort  Monroe, Va. 

Deoember  19th. 1901. 


& 


*~ 


-  \'. 


Mr.John  C.Soofield, 

Chief  Clerk, War  Department,  (..j 

Washington,  D.O.  n*' 

My  Dear  Mr.Soof teld;- 

Referring  to  your  letter  of  Deoember  11th. In  regard  to   a  oomraunloatlon 

fron  colonel  Jsmes  House,  let  .Artillery,  at  Fort  Monroe,  V  a.  March  80th. 

1839  ,rsQues ting  the  dlooharge  from  the  servloo  of  sergeant  Major  Irt^ar 

// 

A.Perry,lst.Artill«ry,Ao.,I  an  sorry  to  say  that  I  oannot  furnish  the 
information  asked  for.   A  searoh  or  the  reoords  here  shows  nothing  In 
regard  to  this  matter.   I  sm  Informed  that  the  old  post  reoords  of  Fort 
Monroe  were  turned  in  to  the  war  Department  many  years  ago,  and  oan 
probably .referred  to  there.   The  reoords  of  the  First  Artillery,whioh 
should  be  at   the  war  Department,  might  also  contain  the  papers  Ao. ,: 
latlng  to  Sergeant  Major  Perry. 

Very  respeotfully, 


Colonel, Artillery  Corps^ 
Commanding  Post. 


*i 


Rl 


a. 


179 
WAR    DEPARTMENT,  1400672 

THI   ADJUTANT   QINtRALO  OPriOl, 

WASMINOTON 

Juno  27B  1910. 


Mr.  j.  Ho  Whittyc 

1400  Brook  !i0ud( 

:.irh-nondv  Virginia • 
Sir* 

With  refernnce  to  your  lott'.T  of  the  23d  instant,  in  irhich  you  state  that  about 
1S94  the  Sccrrtary  of  War0  Hon,  uoi.ert  Lincoln,,  and  Adjutant  General  }U  C.  Drum 
vr rot*)  F'rofeoner  G*  K,   Woodbury,  i;ivinn  Mm  a  copy  of  a  number  of  records  co&corniiv; 
the  connection  with  the  Army  of  E<>  Ae  foe,  who  enliotod  at  Boston  in  1627  under  tho 
nam*  of  Edgar  A0  Perry;  that  among  the  records  given  wan  the  appointment  of  Perry, 
or  Poo ,   at  Fortress  iionros,  January  1,  1829,  to  sorgeant  major;  and  that  you  wrote 
the  Department  nevoral  months  ago,  through  Hon*  John  Lamb,  aaking  for  tho  record  of 
January  1,  1329,  of  E«  A*  Perry,  and  that  you  wore  informed  that  there  was  nonoj 
and  in  response  to  your  requost  to  be  l'urnishod  with  a  briof  extract  Of  all  recordo 
rolative  to  Edgar  A,  Perry,,  or  Edgar  A0  Poe,  dating  from  May,  1827,  to  July,  1829, 
and  to  uo  further  informed  if  there  is  a  record  of  the  enlistment  of  any  other  per* 
son  named  Perry  about  this  date,  1  have  the  honor  to  advise  you  as  follovsj 

The  records  of  this  office  show  that  Edgar  A«  Poe  was  admitted  to  tho  Military 
Academy  July  1,  1830.  and  dismissed  March  6-,  1331,  The  papers  upon  which  he  was 
appointed  a  cadet  show  that  he  served  in  Battery  H,  1st  Artillery,  and  as  sergeant 
major,  lnt  Artillery »  The  name  Edgar  A«  Poe  doss  not  appear,,  h©vsvorc  on  the  rec- 
ords of   he  lot  Artillery,  hut  the  name  Edgar  A*  Perry  is  bo  mo,  /ho  enlists  May 
26.,  1327,,  and  was  assigned  to  Battery  H^,  1st  Artillery;  appointed  artificer  May  1, 

'  '      '    "°      '(':    ;!'  •"    ''"•"'-      •<*--•         •«■;     ,*v;      .11        •.        J.,:.-, ..  ■«■    1        I'      '         lJ.-'i    .■:..)..;;  <  ?<!    A;      '1 

••u:   «ti*uL"      ",    :ie.-.  -u  .      -.tftior,       ;:.-.,    'y'-cr.  '■    K.,    /codt^j  .  \      c.    .-    »■     \  •   , 
to~-\-  vl;  u^tt.s       ,-nn    rur.u.-ih  -A  •■■•i ;.;,    ii.ic--:     ic:,    nja.lir   to     ,:•:<■     fcreiOin      u-     *li«    S<  r- 


180 

rctary  oi*  V/ur  in  a  1  at  tor  dut:>d  Kovemi-  r  20     188. K,   but   no   copioe  of   rocords     oro 

/iu*ni  Llil  .(I. 

T!.c».v>   in  no    further  information   in   this  mar's   caje« 

Tin    ::.c   da    f^.-.l.   r  f«}io  •   that   in  a   conmunxcat:.on  datid  January  26     UOOp   st 
28  1'orth  9th  Strcot     -Uchmond.,   Virginia.,    forwarded  to   tho   DtipartBir.t    by  ilon0   .lohn 
Larib.j   you  re  ucst^d  a  ^Oflv  (jm    Jie  apnljc^tlon,  qf  Edua^-  ^„   P'-T*"*  fQi    -hf   BflJUAlflh  of 
aorr.oant  ma  or.  JLai  A-.'^WA^l    -lOiili  ul&ft  ap&rovod  j-^  r.  ranted  January  ^    1S29.   u/\d 
that  undor  date  of  January   27t   1909,  Mi*.  L'omb  was  odviood   rlutt  an  oxaiatnatton  of     ho 
records  hail  boon  nader   and   that  no   such  application  aa   that  deocrii    d  hmi   l>   en  .'ound 
on  file     i«   e.     the  application  fo.    'he  pooitlon  of   aorf,<*ai..t  major. 

Thors  in  no    r-oord  of   tho  enlistment  of  an.    othT  .-nun  xmdor   :he  name  Perry  dux*» 
in*'   the  yoar  lft27. 

Very   rcspfi;trully 


i*  io  Adjutant  U'Hirr&l. 


1480672 
WAR   DIPARTMtNT,  ^^^ 


•  4IMINQTON 


Jul/  2,   1910. 

«r.   J.   H.  thltty, 

1400  Brook  Road, 

Richmond,   Virginia. 
Doar  Sir: 

In  rooponoo  to  your  lattor  of  tho  29th  ultimo,   roeodrod  yootorday,   rola. 
tWo  to  tho  caoo  of  Edgmr  A,  Porry  (I.  A.  Poo),  In  which  1  attar  you  rofor  to 
pajjo.  37-41  of  ftoorioan  Mow  of  Lottaro— Mfrar  Alloo  poo— by  Oaorgo  I.  lOodborry, 
I  bag  loavo  to  advlao  you  as  follow x 


181 

Tl»e   itataMM,    la  tho  letter  eddreeeed  to  you  07  this  office  unler   date  of 
Jujm  27,   1910,    that  oe   sort**  of  •— — —  ••»•  •***•*  one*  to  »<r.  0«orge  I. 
•oodberry,   of  fteverly,   ?taoeaehueette,   with  the  letter  dated  November  ?0,   1033, 
fro*,  the  Secretary  of  War  to  Hr,  toodberry,  la  correct.     However,    frcm  *   further 
examination  of  tho  records,   It  appoar*  that  eoplee  of  tfie  letters#thet  ara 
printed  on  tho  pngo*  of  Itr.   »iodberry»e  book,   boforo  referred   to,   wore   ftirnl  nhod 
to  hla  by  tho  War  Department  at  a  lator  date.     Tho  original*  of  *hoee  reconla 
ara  on  file  In  thlt  office,   and   thoy  are  correctly  reproduced  in  that  book. 

Uth  regard  to  your  inquiry  concerning  tho  duties  of  an  "artificer"  In  tho 
Amy,   I  beg  leave  to  adviie  you  that  paragraph  126,   Ar~ y  llogulatloas,    (Edition 
of  1047),   provides  that  "No  man,   unlns*  ha  be  a  earpontnr,    Joiner,    carriage 
•aker,   blacksmith,  ae-l-H  or,   or  harness  waker,  will  ^e  mustered  a*   an  •  nrti  firer1." 
A  similar  provision  baa  not  boon  found  in  earlier  editions  of  tho  angulations. 
However,    tho  grade  of  artificer  haa  a]  ways  boon  one   that  should  bn   filled  by 
"military  mecKa-iice"   of   soma  kind.        KotMng  nan  been   found  of  record   to    show 
what  dutlee  were  actually  performed  by  Ktg"r  A.  Perry  while  he  filled  the  grade  of 
artificer,    ('O'jj  •»»•,'    H,    ).»it    Artillery,    nor   ran   anyt.'.ir.,     bu«»n    fo*r»d    to    «*/.o»    w:.ot/,or 
or  not  no  aotun]]/   h/nl  •-■oci.tr.i.'  .1    3*11 1    of    \ny   kind. 

v'ny    rcJupectfjJly, 

1480672-0  "\J> --  Tho   Adjutnnt   Cnnarnl . 

•*'.  .  ^> 

-^ 
«r.  J.  R.  Whltty,  <£~ 

1400  Brook  Hoed, 

Rlottnond,  Ta.  -^^         September  14,  1916. 

Dear  Jin 

Referring  to  your  letter  of   Ua  let   Instant,   addrosuod   to   the 
President  and  referred   to   this  Department   for  adenowledgrnent  and  00a- 
elderatlon,   la  which  lottor  you  statu  ttu.t  about  the  year  1884  .<*} ro- 
tary of  v.ar  Lincoln  made  on  Investigation  for  1'rofoesor  (j.  i.  T.ood- 


182 

berry  into  the  wur  records  regarding  tbo  matters  of  Cigar  A.  Perry, 
una  trad  or  whioh  -idgejr  Alloa  Poo  enlisted  at  Boston  in  lilt  In  tho 
lot  U.   J*  Art il lory,  and  In  response  to  /our  request  tnat  you  bo  fur- 
nished with  ooptoa  of  all  records  on  fllo  in  the  /ujutant  aonoral*s 
Of floo  rolctlro  to  tho  military  eorvioe  of  Perry  and  to  bo  inforaod 
whether  ha  wao  praeeut  for  duty  on  Fob*  28,  1819,  tho  period  during 
whioh  a  furlough  woo  gran tod  to  him  subeequont  to  that  date,  and 
whothar  tho  records  on  fllo  In  thio  of floo  aro  original  rooordo,   I 
haTO  tho  honor  to  lnoloaa  herewith  official  ooploo  of  all  papora  that 
hare  boon  found  in  this  Department  ralatlre  to   tha  serrloe  in  question, 
whioh  ooploa  aro  made  from  original  rooorda  on  fllo  in  this  of  floo,  and 
to  inform  you  aa  followai 

hia  o&rfit* Kf  *«■  o^^r^i^llWJ^ottfn/l^olB  naTRt'lo^wl 
to  ahow  that  a  learo  of  abaonoa  waa  grant  ad  to  hia  eubeequent  to  too 

1460672 

dato  mentioned. 

This  DapMrtnant  has  no  knowledge  of  tho  oxlstenoo  of  papora  out- 
slda  of  tha  Department  relatire  to  Parry's  military  aarrioa. 

It  appears  that  oonaldarablo  information  has  heretofore  bean  fur- 
nished to  ">r»  "nitty  concerning  tha  service  of  Poa  or  Porry  in  lattora 
of  thli  of  floo  dutod  :uno  ::7,  1910,   ,ui  July  iif  1910. 

Very  rc;jpoct  fully,  cp> 


'""he  ._J.Jut-.mt   Jci.oral. 


i 


J    '"  '  ( 


183 

MELVILLE  AND  NATIONAL  MATTERS  K'mtJf™™rm 

Although  the  following  manuscripts  have  been  mentioned  and  drawn  upon  for  a 
sentence  or  a  paragraph  in  Jay  Leyda ' s  indispensable  The  Melville  Log  (2  vols., 
N.Y.,  1951),  referred  to  hereafter  as  M  L,  they  deserve  a  more  complete  represen- 
tation and  a  more  careful  editing.  (One  or  two  Leyda  overlooked.)  With  the  ex- 
ception of  Items  16  and  17  (from  the  papers  of  the  Treasury  Department),  all  are 
from  the  Melville  folder  in  the  State  Department  Records. 

(1)  Amasa  Junius  Parker  to  Pres.  Franklin  Pierce,  Albany,  Apr.  20,  1853.  (Partly 
printed  in  M  L.  I,  469.) 

(2)  G.  Y.  Lansing  to  Franklin  Pierce,  Albany,  Apr.  21,  1853.   (Only  mentioned  in 
M  L,  I,  469.) 

(3)  Charles  O'Conor  to  Franklin  Pierce,  N.Y.,  Apr.  21,  1853.   (Partly  printed  in 
M  L.  I,  470.) 

(4)  Edward  C.  West  to  Franklin  Pierce,  N.Y.,  Apr.  22,  1853.   (Mentioned  in  M  L, 
I,  470.) 

(5)  Allan  Melville  to  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  N.Y.,  Apr.  22,  1853.   (Mentioned  in 
M_L,  I,  470.) 

(6)  H.  W.  Bishop  to  William  Learned  Marcy,  Secretary  of  State,  Boston,  May  24, 
1853.   (Partly  printed  in  M  L.  I,  473-474.) 

(7)  Alexander  Hamilton  Rice  to  [?  William  Learned  Marcy],  Washington,  D.C.,  Feb. 
28,  1861.   (Mentioned  in  M_L,  II,  634.) 

(8)  Alexander  Warfield  Bradford  to  [Abraham  Lincoln],  N.Y.,  [March,  1861].   (Part- 
ly printed  in  M  L,  II,  635.) 

(9)  E.  P.  Hurlbut,  Alexander  Warfield  Bradford,  Samuel  Blatchford,  Richard  Mil- 
ford  Blatchford,  John  Adams  Dix,  and  George  F.  M.  Davis  to  Abraham  Lincoln,  [7N.Y.] 
March,  1861.   [Reproduced  below.] 

(10)  John  Chipman  Hoadley,  citizen  of  Lawrence,  Mass.,  to  Charles  Sumner,  N.Y., 
March  11,  1861.   (One  sentence  appears  in  M  L,  II,  634.) 

(11)  Julius  Rockwell,  James  D.  Colt,  H.  Colt,  P.  L.  Page,  E.  H.  Kellogg,  Robert 
Campbell,  William  Pollock,  J.  D.  Adamson,  and  Theo .  Pomeroy  to  Abraham  Lincoln, 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  March  14,  1861.   (Mentioned,  omitting  one  name,  in  M  L.  II, 
634.) 

(12)  John  R.  Rollins,  John  Chipman  Hoadley,  Henry  Kemble  Oliver,  William  C.  Chap- 
in,  George  P.  Briggs,  George  D.  Cabot,  and  Charles  S.  Storrow  to  Abraham  Lincoln, 
Lawrence,  Mass.,  Mar.  19,  1861.   (Mentioned  in  M  L,  II,  634.) 

(13)  George  Griggs  to  Charles  Sumner,  Boston,  Mar.  21,  1861.   (Partly  printed, 
but  with  errors,  in  M  L,  II,  636.) 

(14)  Lemuel  Shaw  to  Charles  Sumner,  Boston,  Mar.  21,  1861.   (Partly  printed  in 
M  L,  II,  636-637.) 

(15)  Julius  Rockwell  to  Charles  Sumner,  Pittsfield,  Mass.,  Mar.  25,  1861.  (Part- 
ly printed  with  omitted  italics  in  M  L,  II,  638.)   [Reproduced  below.] 

(16)  Register  of  Customs  Officers,  I,  no.  2,  p.  85,  and  I,  no.  5,  p.  225,  Records 
of  the  Treasury  Department.   [Reproduced  below.] 

(17)  E.  L.  Hedden  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  N.Y.,  June  16,  1886.   From  a 
typescript  among  the  records  of  the  Treasury  Department. 


184 


[1J 


Albany  April  20,  1853. 
Gen.  Franklin  Pierce, 

President  of  the  United  States, 
My  Dear  Sir, 

The  example  you  have  set,  in  ap- 
pointing M   Hawthorne  to  the  Consulship 
at  Liverpool,  has  given  to  your  friends 
the  most  gratifying  assurance  of  the  es- 
teem in  which  you  hold  the  Literary  repu- 
tation of  the  country  and  of  your  desire 
to  promote  it. 

May  I  suggest,  for  your  consideration, 
the  propriety  of  also  awarding  a  consul- 
ship to  Herman  Melville  Esquire  of  the 
city  of  New  York.* 

Mr  Melville  has  contributed  to  our 
Literature  much  that  is  instructive  and 
delightful,  and  gives  ample  promise, 
with  proper  encouragement,  of  a  most 
brilliant  career  as  a  writer.   But  he  is 
toiling  early  &  late  at  his  literary  la- 
bors &  hazarding  his  health  to  an  extent 
greatly  to  be  regretted. 

Mr  Melville  is  a  democrat,  Descended 
on  the  side  of  his  mother,  from,  Gen 
Gansevoort,  distinguished  in  the  history 
of  the  Country,  and  on  the  side  of  his 
father  from  one  of  the  most  gallant  ac- 
tors at  Boston  in  the  early  scenes  of 
the  Revolution,  he  could  not  be  other- 
wise than  a  true  &  faithful  supporter  of 
democratic  principles. 

M  Melville,  as  you  are  probably  aware, 
is  the  son-in-law  of  Ch.  J.  Shaw  of  Massa- 
chusetts. 

If  you  should  deem  it  consistent  with 
your  sense  of  duty,  to  tender  Mr  Melville 
some  desirable  place  abroad,  while  the 
act  would,  I  think,  be  very  acceptable 
to  the  nation  generally,  and  throughout 
the  world  where  "Typee"  is  read,  it 
would  also,  I  am  sure,  be  most  gratify- 
ing to  his  personal  friends. 

With  sincere  regard, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be, 
Very  Respy 
Yours  &c  &c 

Amasa  J.  Parker. 

*  who  resides  at  Pittsfield  Mass. 


[2] 
His  Excellency 
Franklin  Pierce 
My  Dear  Sir 

The  friends  of  Herman  Mellville 
Esquire  desirous  that  he  should  be  re- 
lieved from  his  literary  pursuits,  have 


suggested  an  application  for  a  consu- 
lar Appointment- 

Mr  Mellville  is  a  Grandson  of 
General  Gansevoort,  who  was  eminently 
useful  in  our  revolutionary  struggle, 
and  is  respectably  connected-   With 
a  mind  highly  cultivated,  and  with 
great  integrity  of  Character,  he  will 
ably  and  faithfully  discharge  the  du- 
ties of  a  Consular  Appointment- 

I  beg  leave  most  respectfully 
to  add  my  request  to  those  of  his 
friends,  that  his  Application  may  re- 
ceive favorable  Consideration-   and  am 

Most  respectfully  &  truly 
Your  ob   serv^ 
G   Y   Lansing 
Albany  21.  April  1853. 

[3] 

To         New  York  April  21.  1853 

His  Excellency 
Franklin  Pierce 

My  dear  Sir 

From  my  knowledge  of  your  senti- 
ments and  the  observation  of  your  of- 
ficial acts,  I  am  sure  you  will  excuse 
this  intrusion. 

Notwithstanding  your  multiplied 
cares  in  the  laborious  department  of 
appointing  to  office  I  venture  to  so- 
licit your  attention  to  the  applica- 
tion of  M  Herman  Melville  for  the 
Consulate  at  Honolulu  in  the  Sandwich 
Islands. 

Mr  Melville  has  added  lustre  to  the 
american  name  by  his  numerous  and  popu- 
lar literary  productions.   He  has  con- 
tributed to  the  advancement  of  our 
fame  as  a  nation  throughout  the  civi- 
lized world  and  by  effects  of  genius  * 
commanding  general  admiration  has 
formed  a  bond  of  union  and  amity  be- 
tween our  great  republic  and  the  isles 
of  the  Pacific. 

I  know  no  one  who  would  more  appro- 
priately represent  us  at  the  place 
designated  and  I  sincerely  hope  you  may 
find  it  consistent  with  your  views  of 
duty  to  confer  upon  him  the  desired  ap- 
pointment 

I  am  dear  Sir 
Yours  truly 

Ch.  0»Conor 

*[A  possible  alternative  read- 
ing: "efforts  of  genius"]        


185 


[4] 


New  York   April  22.  185  3 

Franklin  Pierce 

President  of  the  United  States. 

Sir. 

Many  friends  of  the  distinguished 
Author  Herman  Melville  would  be  gratified 
by  his  Appointment  to  some  Suitable  posi- 
tion abroad. 

His  labors  have  been  so  severe  of  late 
years  as  to  make  it  a  point  of  great  im- 
portance and  earnest  desire  with  his 
friends  to  secure  for  him  some  relief 
from  his  toils;  and  it  is  thought  that  if 
your  Excellency  would  assign  to  him  the 
performance  of  some  public  duty  abroad 
the  object  of  his  numerous  friends  and 
admirers  would  be  accomplished  by  your 
kind  interference. 

The  fitness  of  M?  Melville  in  the  de- 
partment of  public  service  spoken  is  of 
the  highest  character  and  I  presume  well 
known  to  your  Excellency. 

It  is  with  great  pride  and  sincere 
pleasure  that  I  number  myself  among 
those  who  will  feel  the  Appointment  of 
M^  Melville  a  personal  favor 

With  high  respect 

Yr  ob  St. 

Edw.  C.  West. 


[5] 
New  York  April  22.  185  3. 

My  dear  Sir. 

I  have  but  a  few  moments 
before  the  closing  of  the  mail  in  which 
to  enclose  to  you  letters  to  the  Presi- 
dentt  [ sic]  from  Charles  O'Conor,  now 
United  States  District  Attorney  (a  very 
strong  one) —  Amasa  J.  Parker  one  of 
the  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  this 
State .   G.  Y.  Lansing  Chancellor  of  our 
University  and  one  from  Edward  D.  West. 

In  the  struggle  for  Honolulu  if  my 
brother  is  fairly  placed  before  the 
President,  his  chances  cannot  but  be 
good —    I  beg  of  you  a  perusal  of  the 
enclosed  letters,  especially  that  of 
M  O'Conor  whoes  [sic]  name  must  have 
great  weight  with  the  President. 

I  beg  of  you  M  Hawthorne  to  do  what 
your  [sic]  can  and  what  I  know  you  are 
willing  to  do  to  aid  in  the  selection  of 
my  brother  for  the  Consulate  at  Honolulu- 
Should  it  in  your  opinion  be  impossi- 
ble to  secure  to  him  this  post.  I  would 


mention  Antwerp  as  a  consulate  of 
which  I  have  certain  information. 

I  suppose  that  my  brother  would 
prefer  a  post  in  Great  Britain 

But  I  can  learn  nothing  definite 
of  Consulships  there  which  are  to  be 
filled  by  new  men. 

I  have  taken  more  measures  to  pro- 
cure letters  from  Massachusetts  sup- 
posing that  it  would  be  unnecessary, 
as  you  yourself  could  speak  for  the 
Commonwealth 

But  to  day  I  have  written  to  Judge 
Shaw  on  the  subject,   I  hope  to  ex- 
pect something  from  Boston  in  a  few 
days. 

Excuse  the  freedom  of  this  note  & 
Believe  me 

Sincerely  Yours 

Allan  Melville 
Mr/ 
Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
Washington 

I  understand  from  Gen   Dix  that  it 
was  supposed  no  more  consulates  would 
be  filled  from  New  York .   He  considered 
my  brothers  residence  in  Mass.  as  fa- 
vorable 


A  M 


[6] 


Hon.  Wm.  L  Marcy  SecX   of  State. 
My  dear  Sir, 

Among  those  applying 
for  the  consulate  at  the  Sandwich  Is- 
lands I  observe  the  name  of  Herman 
Melville  Esq  of  Pittsfield  in  this 
state.   I  can  not  forbear  to  second 
the  friends  of  Mr  Melville  in  their 
efforts  to  procure  for  him  this  post. 
His  acquaintance  with  the  world  &  its 
commercial  relations  peculiarly  fits 
him  for  it.   He  belongs  to  one  of  the 
oldest  and  most  distinguished  demo- 
cratic families  of  this  state.   With 
us,  the  name  of  Melville  is  associa- 
ted with  early  republicanism,  &  Jef- 
fersonian  doctrines —  What  his  poli- 
tical views  now  are,  I  hardly  know. — 
His  literary  tastes  &  habits  have 
withdrawn  him  from  party  controver- 
sies.—   That  the  firm  &  stable  democ- 
racy of  Massachusetts,  would  approve, 
&  be  proud  of  his  appointment,  to  the 
post,  which,  through  his  friends  he 
solicits,  I  have  little  doubt. 

I  am  Sir,  with  sentiments  of 
great  Esteem  &  respect 


186 


Most  Cordially  your  friend 


H.  W.  Bishop 


Boston,  May  2  4/53. 


[7] 

Washington  D  C 
Feb.  28.  1861. 

I  take  very  great  pleasure  in  uniting 
with  others  in  cordially  recommending 
Herman  Melville  Esq1*,  as  a  gentleman  of 
eminent  fitness  to  fill  the  United 
States  Consulship  at  Florence,  and  in 
soliciting  his  appointment. 

Alex^T  H.  Rice. 


[8] 


AiU4»ii  W    Bfttorofto 

A    O.  BaiDroaD, 
A     Hunr.m 


j       $aw  matt, 


No   6  WALL  STREET.  NEW-YORK. 


To  the  President 

of  the  United  States 

Mr  Herman  Melville  is  an  applicant  for 
the  office  of  Vice  Consul  at  Florence. 
It  would  be  difficult  to  speak  too  high- 
ly of  his  qualifications  for  the  posi- 
tion.  I  have  known  him  from  his  youth, 
and  believe  him  competent  to  occupy  any 
post. 

He  is  the  grandson  of  the  late  Major 
Thomas  Melville,  one  of  the  Boston  tea- 
party,  and  on  the  Maternal  side  grand- 
son of  General  Peter  Gansevoort  of  Fort 
Stanwix  memory. 

Mr  Melville  at  any  [sic]  early  per- 
iod of  his  life  distinguished  himself 
by  his  literary  efforts — and  has  since 
continued  to  Inlarge  his  fame.   He  is 
a  gentleman  of  accomplished  mind,  ex- 
cellent character  and  pure  purpose. 
His  appointment  will  reflect  Credit  upon 
his  Country  wherever  he  may  represent  it, 

Respectfully  v 

^  J       Yours 

A  W  Bradford 


[9] 
[See  page  187.] 


Dear  Sir: 

The  object  of  this  note  is 
to  solicit  your  influence  in  behalf  of 
Herman  Melville,  who  desires  to  be  ap- 
pointed Consul  at  Florence. — 

His  friends  also  earnestly  desire 
to  procure  this  situation  for  him. — 
Of  his  eminent  qualifications  for  such 
an  office,  you  can  have  no  doubt. 

His  appointment,  as  a  literary  man, 
would  be  thought  a  graceful  act  by  men 
of  all  classes  and  parties,  and  would 
add  to  the  popularity  and  support  of 
the  Administration. —   I  beg  leave  to 
refer  you  to  Hon.  Lemuel  Shaw,  to  Mr. 
Geo.  Sumner,  &  to  Geo.  Griggs,  of  Bos- 
ton, for  information  as  to  Mr.  Mel- 
ville's qualifications,  and  close,  as 
I  began,  with  an  earnest  appeal  for 
your  powerful  influence. 

I  have  nothing  to  ask  for  myself, — 
nothing  for  any  other  friend,  and  most 
earnestly  desire  to  see  this  object  ac- 
complished. — 

Very  Truly, 

Your  Obt.  Servt, 

J.  C.  Hoadley, 
(of  Lawrence,  Mass.) — 

[11] 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  March  14, 

To  His  Excellency,  1861. 

The  President  of  the  United  States. 

We,  the  Undersigned,  respectfully 
beg  leave  to  recommend  Mr.  Herman  Mel- 
ville for  the  office  of  Consul  at 
Florence . 

Mr.  Melville  has  done  much  to  en- 
hance the  reputation  of  our  national 
literature,  is  a  gentleman  of  the  most 
estimable  character,  and  is  highly 
qualified  for  the  post  we  earnestly 
recommend  and  request  may  be  given 
him.  — 


Theo  Pomeroy 


Julius  Rockwell 
James  D.  Colt 
H.  Colt 
P.  L.  Page 
E  H  Kellogg 
Rob11  Campbell 
Wm  Pollock 
J.  D.  Adamson 


[10] 

New  York,  March  11. /61. 
Hon.  Chas.  Sumner,  M.C. 
Boston. — 


[For  a  facsimile 
of  the  signatures, 
see  page  192  below.] 


,  </t    /hi    J+<u~£X*^<^u     ^^k-eJh^rK   o/isnC~4>CsrvJ 


LJn,     fc^t    .Alt.     ftjuL^Z&v      ^f 


t^jlj      J^^JL/y 


6. 


,e^^t4u>^tlj^4fi*r%fa^y'^~Z&'}i>^-^-^  v 


^ZrTrL* 


188 


[12] 


Lawrence,  Mass.,  March  19.  1861.— 

To  Abraham  Lincoln 

President  of  the  United  States. 

We,  the  Undersigned,  beg  leave  re- 
spectfully to  recommend  the  Appointment 
of  Herman  Melville,  Esq,  as  Consul  at 
Florence.   Mr.  Melville  has  done  much  to 
enhance  the  reputation  of  our  national 
literature;  is  a  gentleman  of  most  es- 
timable character,  and  highly  qualified 
for  the  office  which  we  respectfully  and 
earnestly  request  may  be  given  him. 

John  R.  Rollins 
J  .  C .  Hoadley . — 
H.  K.  Oliver 
W"1  C  Chapin- 
Geor.  P.  Briggs 
Geo.  D.  Cabot 
Cha?  S.  Storrow 


of  Action" 

Any  assistance  you  may  render  him 
in  the  object  of  his  visit  to  Washing- 
ton will  be  gratefully  regarded  as  a 
personal  favor 

I  am 

With  high  regards 
Very  truly  yours 

Geo .  Griggs 

Hon  Charles  Sumner 
U.  S.  Senator  &c  &c. 

[Addressed: ] 

Hon  Charles  Sumner 
U.  S.  Senator  &c  &c. 
Washington 
D.  C. 
(Herman  Melville  Esq) 


^L  A    -  Av/lL^ 


[13] 

Boston  March  21.  1861 

My  Dear  Sir, 

I  am  not  quite  certain 
whether  you  are  acquainted  with  my 
brother-in-law  Herman  Melville  Esq  who 
will  hand  this  note  to  you.   But  if  not 
personally  acquainted,  you  have  long 
known  him  as  a  member  of  the  Republic  of 
Letters . 

He  is  desirous  of  Serving  the  coun- 
try, whose  literature  he  has  helped  to 
make,  in  the  Capacity  of  Consul  at  Flor- 
ence, and  to  diversify  the  labors  of 
authorship,  with  those  of  the  consulate. 

I  know  you  will  be  very  happy  to 
recognize  in  him,  the  Claims  of  "the 
Men  [of]  thought"  though  I  fear  you  are 
almost  oppressed  by  the  Claims  of  "Men 


[14] 
Boston  21  March  1861 

Dear  Sir, 

Mr  Herman  Melville  of  Pitts- 
field,  whose  literary  reputation  is 
well  known  to  you,  is  desirous  of  ob- 
taining a  consulship,  at  Florence. 
He  has  suffered  somewhat  in  his  health, 
as  his  friends  believe,  by  devotion  to 
study,  and  a  life  of  extreme  solitude; 
and  they  fully  believe,  that  with  the 
improvement  to  be  derived  from  a  mild 
climate,  a  more-free  social  inter- 
course with  artists  and  men  of  letters 
and  refinement,  he  would  be  able  to 
perform  the  duties  of  American  Con- 
suul  [sic]  at  Florence,  with  great 
credit  to  his  country,  and  to  the  bene- 
fit of  the  many  Americans,  travellers 
and  residents,  who  seek  the  refined 
and  polished  society  of  that  seat  of 
the  arts.   He  would  find  there,  as  I 
understand,  the  advantages  of  cheap 
living,  &  the  benefits  of  education 
for  his  children.   I  do  therefore 
earnestly  recommend  his  case  to  your 
favorable  notice,  and  consideration. 

I  am,  My  Dear  Sir,  with  the  high- 
est respect,  and  ever  faithfully, 

Your  friend  and  obedient  servant 

Lemuel  Shaw 

Hon.  Charles  Sumner, 

Senator  of  U.  S.  &c  &c .  — 


[15] 
[See  page  189.] 


189 


I      I 

v    Vi 


!  \ 


Av       Q 


.3 


H-H 


*  *•  k  &  J 


1 VT     " 

ill*  ti 


190 


*  ^      oV 


^  >  \  s 


i 


*»  s  ^  „ 


"S 


>N 


>N 


3 


^ 


^ 


\N 


s 


N 


1  V 
x 


>\ 


v 


n 


^ 


®i 


si     > 


m    % 
% 


^ 


V 


*• 


>  ><  *• 

x  $ >  * 


■i 


■\  ~- 


S.  -    *     v 


4 


« 


* 


\ 


1 


X* 


h* 


191 


K 

Urn 

— 


\ 


CV 


M 


>       M     \tf     \ 


< 
■I. 


\ 


*      \ 


.5 


> 


4  ^ 


^  *.  ^ 


* 


< 

s. 

■z 
T. 


< 


^ 


192 


[17] 


Custom  House,  New  York, 
Collector's  Office 
June  16th,  1886 

The  Honorable 

The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury- 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Sir: 

I  submit,  for  your  approval,  the 
nomination  of  William  W.  Penfield,  to 
be  Inspector  of  Customs,  No.  138,  Class 
2,  at  a  compensation  of  four  dollars 
per  diem,  to  serve  a  probationary  term 
of  six  months,  vice  H.  Melville,  re- 
signed December  31,  1885. 

Yours  respectfully 

E.  L.  Hedden 

Collector 


[Signers  of  Letter  11] 


JAMES  RUSSELL  LOWELL 


AND  ENGLAND:  NEW 


LETTERS 


Kenneth  Walter  Cameron 
Trinity  College 


*^*r  **>  W 


s^fj 


<.S/i£g^?-\ 


The  following  letters  from  the  folders  of  the  State  Department  are  only  a 
few,  doubtless,  of  those  filed  in  the  National  Archives  concerning  James  Rus- 
sell Lowell's  period  of  government  service.   Future  biographers  will  do  well 
to  explore  these  resources. 

(1)  Robert  Carter  (on  the  staff  of  the  American  Cyclopaedia,  Appletons1  Build- 
ing, 551  Broadway,  on  the  letterhead  of  which  appear  the  names  of  George  Rip- 
ley and  Charles  A.  Dana,  editors)  to  Hamilton  Fish,  Secretary  of  State  in 
Washington,  D.C.    Dated  N.Y.,  March  30,  1876. 

(2)  Peter  Walsh,  of  Jefferson  House,  Boston,  Mass.,  to  Hamilton  Fish,  dated 
Boston,  April  7,  1876. 

(3)  S[amuel?]  Bartlett  to  William  Maxwell  Evarts,  Secretary  of  State,  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  dated  Boston,  April  10,  1877. 

(4)  Richard  Watson  Gilder,  editor-in-chief  of  the  Century  Magazine,  to  Frederick 
T.  Frelinghuysen,  Secretary  of  State,  Washington,  D.C.  Dated  N.Y.,  November  11, 
1881. 

(5)  Henry  Bergh,  founder  of  the  American  Society  for  the  Prevention  of  Cruelty 
to  Animals,  to  President  Chester  Alan  Arthur,  dated  N.Y.,  June  5,  1882. 


(6)  R.  T.  Ellis,  recording  secretary  of  the  Knights  of  Labor*  St.  Joseph,  Mo., 
to  President  [Chester  A.  Arthur],  dated  St.  Joseph,  Mo.,  Sept.  30,  1882. 


[1] 


193 


The  American  Cyclopaedia, 
Appletons'  Building,  551  Broadway. 
New  York,  March  30   1876 

Dear  Sir, 

Mr.  Dana's  rejection  by  the  Senate 
is  likely  to  do  mischief  in  Massachu- 
setts, and  I  write  to  suggest  that  it 
might  be  politic  to  nominate  as  his  suc- 
cesser  James  Russell  Lowell. 

I  know  the  State  well,  having  been 
for  many  years  an  editor  in  Boston,  and 
an  active  Free  Soil  and  Republican  poli- 
tician.  Mr  Lowell's  appointment  would 
placate  Massachusetts,  and  I  think  satis- 
fy the  Country.   He  is  more  popular  than 
Mr.  Dana,  has  hosts  of  friends  and  admir- 
ers and  no  personal  enemies.   In  charac- 
ter and  manners  he  is  all  that  could  be 
desired.   He  is  well  known  in  England 
where  they  have  given  him  their  highest 
honors — L.L.D.  at  Cambridge  &  D.C.L.  at 
Oxford,  and  as  a  literary  man  &  man  of 
learning  is  much  better  known  than  Mr. 
Dana. 

He  is  a  cautious  man,  and  with  a 
good  Secretary  would  be  perfectly  safe 
and  trustworthy.   I  have  known  him  in- 
timately for  thirty  years,  and  am  sure 
he  would  be  equal  to  the  post  &  would 
accept  it.   He  declined  the  Russian 
Mission  because,  at  the  time,  his  wife's 
sister,  who  lived  with  him,  was  appar- 
ently at  the  point  of  death,  and  his 
own  health  was  shaken  by  long  care  of 
her.   But  there  is  nothing  now  in  his 
circumstances  to  prevent  his  acceptance, 
if  the  post  is  offered  to  him. 
respectfully  yours 

Robert  Carter 

Hon.  Hamilton  Fish. 


would  fill  the  position  with  honor  to 
the  Country  and  be  satisfactory  to  the 
People  as  an  instance  of  the  Adminis- 
tration's desire  to  send  none  but  men 
of  undisputed  integrity  to  replace  the 
late  incumbent  of  that  position. 

Mr  Lowell  is  a  Citizen  of  such  uni- 
versal reputation,  that  his  appointment 
would  be  hailed  with  joy,  by  the  peo- 
ple of  all  parties. 

Sir   Hoping  you  will  excuse  my  lib- 
erty of  thus  expressing  my  sentiments 
on  a  question  of  importance  to  every 
American  Citizen. 

I  remain  very  Respectfully  4c 

Peter  Walsh. 
Jefferson  House . 
Boston,  Mass. 


t3] 
Boston  Ap  10.  77 

Dear  Mr  Evarts 

By  the  common  consent  of  those 
here  who  favor  or  fight  the  Adminis- 
tration (if  the  latter  are  not  too  few 
to  be  of  account)  James  Russell  Lowell 
will  be  held  as  admirably  fitted  for 
the  post  of  Minister  to  St  James ' 

His  history  political  &  as  a  man  of 
letters  is  public  &  I  beg  leave  to  add 
that  that  [ sic]  in  my  Judgement — he 
is  no  mere  student  but  a  thoroughly 
practical  man  of  affairs. 

I  would  that  I  could  say  or  do  more 
than  this  to  secure  an  appointment  so 
creditable  to  the  President  &  his  ad- 
visers 

Very  Truly  Yours 

S  Bartlett 


Private 


[2] 
Boston,  Mass. 

April  7-tt,  1876. 


Hon.  Hamilton  Fish. 
Sec't'ry  Of  State. 
Washington,  D.C. 

Sir: 

I  hope  you  will  excuse  the  liber- 
ty of  addressing  you,  but  as  an  American 
Citizen  I  may  have  some  right  to  give  my 
opinion  on  a  subject  of  importance,  to 
the  Country  at  large,  and  this  is  the 
appointment  of  a  Minister  to  England. 

Now  that  Mr.  Dana  has  been  rejected 
by  the  Senate,  why  not  send  Prof.  James 
Russell  Lowell  of  Cambridge,  Mass.   he 


[4] 
Editorial  Department 
The  Century  Magazine 
Union  Square   New-York 

Nov  11,  1881; 

My  dear  Mr  Frelinghuysen, 

I  see  your  name  used,  (    on't 
know  how  authoritatively)  in  connec- 
tion with  the  new  Cabinet.   I  don't 
want  you  to  tell  me  anything  you  ought 
not — but  I  very  much  wish  I  could  do 
something,  no  matter  how  small, 
to  help  strengthen  Mr.  Lowell's 
present  position.   Is  there  any 
way  of  getting  the  President  to  feel 
that  his  removal  would  be  a  mistake? 
I  think  I  speak  not  only  for  the  "lit- 


194 


erary  fellows" — and  not  only  also  for 
the  journalists  of  the  Country — but  in 
some  sense  for  the  intelligent  young 
men — the  men  of  my  own  generation 
throughout  the  country — in  saying  that 
it  is  considered  a  creditable  thing  for 
the  country  to  have  such  a  man  in  such 
a  place.   I  happen  to  know  privately — 
(&  not  through  him)  what  a  strong  in- 
fluence he  has  there  not  only  with  the 
intelligent  classes  in  England,  but 
with  the  few  powerful  persons  by  whom 
much  can  be  accomplished. 

A  hint  from  you  might  be  of  use  to 
me — at  any  rate  you  will  not,  I  trust, 
be  bored  with  a  letter  from 

Your  old  friend 

R.  W.  Gilder 
Editor  &c 

P.S. — This  letter  is  written  entirely 
of  my  own  motion     My  [sic]  enclose 
by  [ sic]  warm  regards  to  the  members 
of  your  family 


C5] 


'I' '  V/  j 


r^/rvfi. 


To  His  Excellency 
Chester  A  Arthur 

President  of  the  United  States. 

Dear  Mr  President 

I  labor  under  the  disadvantage,  per- 
haps, of  being  a  native  born  American; 
which  is  enhanced,  as  some  persons 
think  by  being  related  to  ancestors, 
who  came  to  this  Country  and  State  150 
years  ago ! 

I  should  not  allude  to  this  insig- 
nificant Circumstance,  but  in  support 
of  the  fact,  that,  as  an  American,  I 
feel  a  deep  interest  in  the  justice  and 
welfare  of  my  Country. 

I  learn  through  the  Press,  that  it 
is  the  intention  of  your  Excellency,  to 
recall  Mr  Lowell  from  the  post  of  Min- 
ister to  Great  Britain;  and  that  this 
purpose  is  the  result  of  Irish  dicta- 
tion in  the  United  States;  based  upon 
Mr  Lowell's  alleged  neglect  to  demand 


the  liberation  of  some  Irishmen,  call- 
ing themselves  Americans,  who  had  been 
conspiring  against  a  government,  with 
which  our  Country  is  at  Peace. 

My  object  in  addressing  you,  is  to 
offer  my  most  respectful,  and  solemn 
protest  against  so  great  a  wrong  as 
that  would  be;  while  giving  ascendency 
to  a  foreign  element,  whose  traditions 
and  practices  among  us,  for  the  most 
part,  are  far  from  entitling  it  to  any 
such  abnormal  partiality;  and,  more- 
over, would  in  my  opinion,  offend  dip- 
lomatic Comity,  and  tarnish  the  fair 
record  of  your  Excellency's  administra- 
tion. 

I  have  no  personal  acquaintance  with 
Mr  Lowell,  nor  ever  saw  him,  but  he  is 
an  American  gentleman,  dignified  and 
loyal  in  the  discharge  of  his  duties, 
whose  recall,  I  hold,  would  violate  the 
spirit  of  international  intercourse, 
and  give  umbrage  to  every  right  think- 
ing American  in  the  land. 

With  great  respect 

Henry  Bergh 


[6] 

Saint  Joseph  Mo   Sept  30th  (82 
Mr  President 
Dear  Sir 

At  a  Meeting  of  the  Knights  of 
Labor  of  this  City  the  following  Resolu- 
tion was  unanamously  adopted  and  the 
Secretary  was  Instructed  to  forward  the 
Same  to  your  Honor  hoping  that  It  will 
receive  due  and  careful  attention  at 
your  hands 

Resolved 

That  this  assembly  does  Emphaticly 
protest  against  the  action  of  our  Min- 
ister To  England  as  Thougherly  unameri- 
can  and  as  having  a  Tendency  To  pander 
To  the  Interest  of  an  Element  Positivly 
antagonistic  to  the  Interest  of  the  In- 
dustrial Community  in  view  of  which  we 
ask  His  recall  from  His  position  and 
Some  one  appointed  more  in  Sympathy  with 
Republican  Institutions 

Your ' s  &  C 
R.  T.  Ellis 

Recording  Secretary 


195 


LITERARY  NEWS  IN  AMERICAN  RENAISSANCE 
NEWSPAPERS   (e) 


C*" 


+*?#" 


"ft* 


RALPH  WALDO  EMERSON  AT  THE  NEW 
YORK  TABERNACLE. 

[Correspondence  of  the  Boston  Trnnsoript.] 

New  York,  March  8th,  1854. 
Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  dolivered  a  lecture  in 
the  Broadway  Tabernacle  lastovening,  upon  Slave- 
ry. One  has  a  curiosity  to  hear  what  such  a  man 
has  to  say  upon  such  a  subject,  and  how  he  says 
it, — a  subject  which  has  beon  beaten  to  and  fro 
over  and  over  again,  but  which  yet  summons  now 
voices  to  the  chorus  of  tho  battle-cry,  and  new  as- 
sailants to  the  field.  All  grades  of  verbal  warriors 
now  try  their  strength  upon  it.  The  musketry  of 
the  newly-fledged  Congressman  and  the  cannonade 
of  the  Massachusetts  Senator  have  just  been  level- 
led against  its  front.  Wendell  Phillips  pierces  it 
with  the  delicate  rapier  of  his  silvery  eloquence. 
Garrison  slashes  at  it  with  the  big  battle-axe  of 
fervid  denunciation.  Theodore  Parker  stabs  at  its 
heart  with  the  crooked,  poisoned  dagger  of  his  bit- 
ter sarcasm.  Now  and  then  we  hear  a  pistol-shot 
— it  is.fromoneof  the  feinalo  allius  who  cease- 
lessly harass  the  enemy's  flanks.  From  them,  too, 
come  the  tiny,  barbed  arrows, — like  unto  those 
wherewith  tho  Lilliputians  wounded  the  great  Gul- 
liver— that  sting  like  insects,  and  ruffle  the  giant's 
tompor.  And  now  appears  onco  more  in  tho  bat- 
tle-field the  great  dreamer  ;  ho,  who,  liko  Fine- Eur 

in  tho  fairy  talo,  lies  upon  tho  greensward  and  lis- 
tens to  tho  motion  of  each  blade  of  grass,  to  tho 
blossoming  of  flowers,  hears  the  green  leaves  open- 
ing to  the  sunshine  and  the  wholo  harmony  of  Na- 
ture's song,  and  then  tells  us — but  not  often  in  a 
language  which  all  men  comprehend — what  he  has 
heard  the  grass,  and  flowers,  and  green  leaves  say. 
His  weapon  is  the  glittering  laDce,  rather  than  the 
battle-axe,  or  broadsword,  or  other  implement  of 
war.  So  the  battle  continues,  and  will  continue  to 
the  end — the  time  of  whose  coming  no  man  knows. 

When  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  stood  up  in  the 
Tabernacle  last  night,  one  could  have  heard  a  pin 
drop.  He  had  entered  the  hall  with  that  shy, 
shrinking  manner  that  made  Frederika  Bremer  think 
him- an  animated  icicle,  and  looking  very  much 
like  an  elderly  divinity  student  making  his  debut, 
or  a  frightened  country  clergyman  in  a  great  city 
church.  A  man  behind  me  said,  '  I  don't  expect 
much  of  him!'  But  when  he  began  to  speak,  and 
his  voice,  rich  and  musical .'  to  tho  ultimate  de- 
gree,' broke  the  silence  with  those  well-compacted 
sentences,  tho  vast  audience  was  hushed  into  a 
Close  attention  that  was  the  beet  proof  of  their  in- 
terest in  the  man,  and  his  speech.  Of  applause 
there  was  little,  except  toward  the  close ;  but  every 
eye  was  on  the  speaker,  and  no  word  fell  upon  in- 
attentive ears. 

It  is  useless  to  attempt  to  report  what  Emerson 
says.  The  types  will  not  give  his  look  or  the  tone 
of  his  voice,  any  more  than  tho  pencil  will  paint 
tho  rippling  of  a  brooklet,  or  the  odor  of  a  flower. 
And  therefore  there  is  the  same  difference  between 
hearing  his  spoken  words,  and  reading  them  in  the 
printed  sheet,  as  exists  between  the  dewy,  fra- 
grant landscape,  with  its  singing  birds,  and  hum 
of  bees,  and  waving  grain,  seen  from  a  breezy  hill- 
side, and  the  faint  Counterpart  of  its  beauty,  up- 
on the  artist's  canvass.  The  outward  form  and 
ontlino  aro  there,  but  not  tho  summer  air,  nor  the 


murmuring  sounds  that  are  borno  upon  tho  broczo. 
And  in  liko  manner,  losing  tho  fascination  of  tho 
glance  of  his  clear  oyo,  of  his  voice,  of  his  peculiar 
utterance, — half  faltering,  half  staccato, — of  that 
indcRcribablo  influenco  which  surrounds  tho  bodily 

[iresence  ofallmon,  and  which  thoSwcdcnborgians 
lappily  call  ono's  sphere,  wo  loso  half  tho  charm  of 
his  spoken  efforts.  Frederika  Bremer  inaptly  com- 
pares Emerson  to  the  Sphinx.  lie  is  rather  liko 
that  statue  of  Momnon,  from  whoso  lips  came  at 
intervals  so  strango  a  music,  Yot  it  is  perhaps 
better  to  say  that  even  to  those  who  do  not  sym- 
pathize with  his  peculiar  views,  the  closo  of  his 
discourse  is  like  the  ending  of  one  of  Beethoven's 
Symphonies.  Though  here  and  there,  the  hidden 
sense  has  been  obscure  to  our  dull  perceptions,  or 
a  false  note  has  been  struck  which  jars  upon  our 
ears,  yet  the  strains  of  music  float  in  our  delighted 
senses  with  too  sweet  a  tone  to  sanction  a  word  of 
censure,  We  hear  in  our  memories  only  the  grand 
harmony  that  has  enchanted  us — gladly  forgetting 
'  the  discord  and  the  straining.' 

Mr.  Emerson  told  his  hearers  that  he  did  not 
like  to  speak  in  public,  upon  the  great  questions 
of  the  day.  Only  when  those  questions  seemed  to 
reach  the  closets  of  students  and  scholars,  to  which 
his  habitual  view  is  eonfined,  did  he  leave  his  pe- 
culiar track.  Yet  that  class  of  students  in  some 
sort  comprises  all  mankind  ;  comprises  every  man 
in  tho  best  hours  of  his  life  ;  and  in  these  days,  in 
our  own  land,  not  only  virtually  but  actually  ; — 
for  who  aro  the  readers  and  thinkers  of  1854? 
Look  into  the  moving  train,  which  from  every 
suburb,  carries  tho  workman  to  his  toil,  and  tho 
merchant  to  his  counting-room.  With  them  en- 
ters tho  small  newsboy, — the  humblo  priest  of  phi- 
losophy, and  literature,  and  religion,  and  unfolds 
his  magical  sheets.  Then  instantly  the  entire  rec- 
tangular assembly,  fresh  from  their  breakfast,  are 
bonding  as  ono  man  for  tho  eccond  breakfast. 

Soon  Mr.  Emerson  began  to  speak  of  Webster  ; 
growing  moro  animated  in  his  manner,  and  slowly 
moving  his  clinched  hund  to  and  fro.-  Ho  said  that 
in  what  he  had  to  say  of  that  eminent  man,  he 
should  not  confound  him  with  vulgar  politicians  of 
his  time  or  since.  Thoro  aro  always  those  who  aro 
base  enough,  and  mean  enough,  to  calculate  upon 
tho  ignorance  of  the  masses.  That  is  their  quarry 
and  their  farm.  The  low  can  best  win  the  low, 
and  all  men  like  to  be  made  much  of.  There  aro 
men,  too,  whohave  power  and  inspiration  only  to 
do  ill.  Not  such  a  man  was  Daniel  Webster. 
Though  he  knew  very  well,  when  necessary,  how 
to  present  his  personal  claims,  yet  in  hisargument 
he  generally  kept  his  fact  bare  of  personality ;  so 
that  his  splendid  wrath,  when  his  eyes  beoame 
lamps,  was  the  wrath  of  the  cause  he  stood  for. 
His  power,  like  that  of  the  Greek  masters,  was  not 
in  excellent  parts,  but  total.  Ho  had  a  great  and 
everywhere  equal  propriety.  He  worked  with  that 
closeness  of  adhesion  which  a  joiner  uses  ;  and 
had  the  same  quiet  fitness  of  place  that  an  oak  or 
a  mountain   might  have.     The   great  show  their 

f tower  in  nothing  more  than  in  their  ability  to  mis- 
cad  us.  In  perilous  times,  men  look  for  some 
great  captain,  under  the  shadow  of  whose  name, 
inferior  men  may  shelter  themselves,  lie  is  re- 
sponsible, and  they  will  not  be.  It  will  always 
suffico  to  say,  •  I  will  follow  him.'' 

From  this  line  of  remark.  Mr.  Emerson  passed 
to  a  consideration  of  Mr.  Webster's  course  on  tho 


is  &±t 

»  I  Z  .£  - 


o  c 


©    '    o  • 


cJ  ©   ©   u 
«         £    e   ° 


.« -8  *• 


"s-a 


U     to 

£  e  2 
-a  »  o^ 

»    „    (D    „ 
o   & 

o 

>->  C     3     O 

**.£  m  g 

.  §  c  - 

©  a  a  ec 

'—  a  3   3 

o  o  £.  3 

S  a  »c 


2  I 


©  »- 

s_.e  .2 


s  o 

a  .e 


a  ec 


a   2  *»    c    _ 

co  to  ©  ©  c 
-•=  2^1  <=>'= 

>.-:  *»  =  2  op 
*»  "^  «■_  (o  -a  _-:  - 
c  _  c  ■-  *»  5 
•-  u  to         els 

?_  s  o  ...2  o 
i  v  2  -a  ^  _a  © 
"  °      ■-  +» ^J  - 

-  b    *"    S  °°    3  -fi 

-ocsoOi-hj;'^ 
o  12      ■**  »a       © 
■~£  >>-«  |  a      ~ 

*~"J1    O    c  'JZ  "*  **    3 
~         —    <-    z>  ©    fl 

.-   -.a   §  >-,"       <2 

IsisJS'Sg'-e 

-Z^    to    C 


'S'gt: 

I   i-  a 

to   CJ   c 

1  \  * 

2  ti   m 
^    C  — 

2  2  « 

3  C    q, 

°   C 
-*»   u 

=*  ®  rz 

-  u   S 

2    .  o 

-  "to  •  r3 

tC  *  ' 

.s~Z  i 

JS    3    « 

—  a  > 


to  f 


0   to  u.   c   >> 
<H   3   o   ej   u 


a.  2  ° 
3  o£ 


c  a 
c 


5  -a  c  s  2 


to    to    to 


3  -» 

-■•So 
2  «" 

SCO 


a  -o  -a 
T3  a 


8.1 


m     s 


— •  <*>  fe 


£5f  J 

ID     I/)     U     ,. 

"tC51  £_ 


^5    O        .2 


§"S   «*  © 

«  °->-»2  ■ 

-,o  «  ©  0 

t.   a   fl-j: 
3   £  2"o   to 

«>     «S      <D 

on  —    ©    © 

_:  s_  5  © 

S3  ««2  J5  « 


S  a 

S    ©  T3 

•*»  13  a 


.2  i  £  S  .S 

.  *a       ea  -a 
«       "o  «5   if 


—  © 

^  &  s 
g^5 

S  ©  a 
©  >  o 

S  —  M 

EM  ej 
.  © 

b   >  © 

a  Sf5 


?§    .Jis 

.2  e  ■**  ,© 

a  ««    .  eJ 


c 
.2  a 

eJ  "S 

a   © 
toa 


»   m   © 


■s  a 


©  to  a 

is- 


3 


C«a 
a  o 
a  § 

w       ■      ©     © 

'-a  """O  a  5 
•w  t-  a  a  — 

I  •£    3    Ci«i» 
!  .S   o   >>0   O 


©  OO  I 
>-«.■» 

01  ©  rt 

i  a  - 
a  to 
o  *>  to 

©  i-  a 

s»  a  ., 
©  © 

<«  a  B- 

3  e«« 

o 

2  a  » 
n'3° 

"         3 

C    3 
—  .—    • 

©  © 

t?Q  3 
©  o 
?  tes 

2-s<~ 

ex  o 

©  §  © 

x:  ©  i- 


*»  "•  to 

-,"  ^2' 

"3    C  -fi 

3  a  — 
■9  9  3 
§  -». 

"3  *j 

2  °"3 

§c«.g 

-     ©     00 

at  s 

3  3 


3j3    g—    © 

a       2    .  © 
-  ©  3     -  t, 

^©^^ 
3-E  -  j=  5 
©  u  — •  > 
.5  5  « «§  J 

.*"   C  _  "-*  ~ 

■s  ash  o  a 

"  — «  -3     ° 

c  —       -w  -a 

2<*"-    n    5s. 

■a       «-•  a  " 


^_    3    *    S    »« 

*  c  .ii  ©  _. 
S  -s  °  ^  s-  S 

g g .- • £ 

*  £V5  * '" 
"■2^-?  to 

£  s  °  J  s  3 

5    S p  3  ""    S    3 
3    6X-3  *    g 


r§«S 


•s.1 


3  T,    _«— 


3    3 


=  S 


^3  . 

5  5-S  ©  § 


eg  «» 


3    © 

_-a 


H  ©  to  cs  »  -«  _  ^a  «  ^ 


DO 


tC  3 

C    ^ 

to 

2  a 


.-,      © 


«-=•= 


3    3    C    Z    O 

u  a       >,© 


S       oka  ■>.* 

a>  "•  •*    «    tC  5 


^S-a 


©    C    ®         ^5 


!.^I 


©     CS 


\n\ ' 


:  in  .2 


5  <»  <»  c 

3«-  s.2: 

C-  3    S  ^3 


5  3 
c  ej 

o  -fi  t«   rt 
B.TJ    °.  ©    «  U, 
£  ^    >-.-3  ■»»    ° 

S   «   C   «  *»•£ 

.  S  .2  §  © 

-a  „  w   »  t0-a 

-*a    ©  .fi    00    T7-4J 

x>  3  o  a.,d  o 


.5TS 


2.2 

J   * 

2  3 

So  a 


iii  tliein  ull.     Tlio  only  hopo  is  in  tho  life  itself  of 
u  man. 

After  Buying  much  about  tho  folly  of  trusting 
implicitly  to  t'io  opinions  and  authority  of  others, 
the  speaker  camo  to  tho  conclusion  of  tho  whole 
matter,  and  it  was  this  :  That  patienco  and  the 
clforts  of  good  men  will  at  last  be  repaid,  for  na- 
ture is  not  so  helpless  but  that  it  can  rid  itself  of 
overy  wrong.  It  is  the  stern  edict  of  progress, 
that  liberty  shall  be  no  hasty  fruit,  but  that  event 
on  event,  age  on  age,  shall  cast  itself  into  tho  op- 
posite scale  :  and  not  until  liberty  has  accumu- 
lated weight  enough  to  preponderate  against  these, 
shall  the  counterpoise  come.  Tho  inconsistency  of 
slavery  with  tho  principles  upon  which  the  world 
is  built,  guarantees  it's  downfall.  Uut  while  we 
own  that  the  patience  it  requires  to  wait  is  almost 
too  sublime  for  mortals,  and  one  sees  how  fast  the 
rot  spreads,  I  think  we  demand  of  superior  men  of 
the  country,  that  they  shall  be  superior  in  this  : 
that  tho  mind  and  virtuo  of  the  country  shall  givo 
their  verdict  in  their  day,  and  help  to  pull  the 
nuisance  dowD.  Liberty  is  the  crusade  of  all  brave 
and  conscientious  men — tho  epic  poetry,  the  new 
religion,  tho  chivalry  of  all  gentlemen.  Now,  at 
last,  we  are  disenchanted,  and  have  no  more  false 
hopes.  1  respect  tho  Anti-Slavery  Society.  It  is 
the  Cassandra  that  lias  foretold  all  that  has  befallen 
us;  fact  after  fact,  years  ago,  foretold  it  all,  and 
no  man  took  it  to  heart.  It  soemod.  as  tho  Turks 
say,  '  Fate  makes  that  a  man  should  not  belicvo 
his  own  eyes.'     But  tho  Fugitivo  Law  did  much  to 

undue  the  eyes  of  men,  and  now  the  Nebraska 
bill  leaves  us  staring!  Tho  Anti-Slavery  Society 
will  add  many  members  this  year.  Tho  Whig 
party  will  join  it;  the  Democrats  will  join  it:  tho 
population  of  the  Free  States  will  join  it;  I  doubt 
not,  at  last,  tho  Slave  States  will  join  it.  But  be 
that  sooner  or  later,  when  it  pleases  God,  and 
whoever  comes  or  stays  away,  I  hope  we  have  como 
to  the  end  of  our  unbelief— have  come  to  a  belief 
that  there  is  a  Divine  Providence  in  the  world, 
which  will  not  save  us  but  through  our  own  co- 
operation. 

So  the  speech  ended ;  and  those  who  had  entered 
tho  hall,  thinking  that  the  speaker  could  find  no 
new  form  in  which  to  exhibit  his  hackneyed  sub- 
ject, no  felicity  of  illustration  that  had  not  been 
pressed  into  service,  found  that,  in  tho  hands  of 
the  master,  tho  old  theme  wears  a  new  boauty 
when  clothed  with  the  graces  of  his  thought. 

DELTA. 
[The  Liberator,  XXIV, 

no. 11,  Boston,  March  17, 

1854,  page  4.] 


BROWN  IN  THE  BOXTON  CHUKOTE^ 
ON  SUNDAY. 

Brown  Sermon  by  R»lphW*l«oBmrMtt 

[?iomthaAtftuand  DafljrBew] 
The  desk  at  Musio  Hall,  on  Sunday,  wm  filled'  by 
Xalph  Waldo  Emerson,  of  Concord.  The  hall,  not- 
withstanding the  storm,  was  nearly  fall.  The  lei" 
vices  were  commenced  with  the  singing  of  the  con- 
gregation, of  the  following  hymn,  from  the  pen  of  a 
young  gentloman  of  Concord,  supposed  to  be  Mr. 
Thorcau,  whioh  was  effectively  read  by  John  R.Man- 
ly,  the  SeoroUry  of  the  Society.  It  wag  sung  to  the 
tune  of  "  Arlington."    It  is  as  follows  : 


To-dar  beside  Potomac's  wave. 

Beneath  Vireiuta'siikr, 
They  alar  the  man  who  lOTed  the  slave. 

And  dared  (or  him  to  die.- 

The  Pllarrlm  fathers'  earnest  creed, 

Virginia's  ancient  faith, 
Inspired  this  hero's noblest  deed. 

And  his  roward  is— Heath  I 

Great  Wash  ma-ton's  indignant 

Forever  urffed  him  on — 
Be  heard  from  Montloello'a  gladi 

The  voice  ot  Jeflerson. 


196 

But  chloil r  on  tho  Hobrow  page- 
He  read  Jehovah's  law. 

And  this  from  youth  to  hoarr  age 
Obeyed  with  love  and  awe. 

N»  selfish  purpose  arm? .1  his  hand, 

No  p&KAion  aimed  his  blow  : 
How  loyally  ho  loved  his  luna 

Impartial  Time  will  show. 

But  now  the  faithful  martyr  die*, 

Ilia  brave  heart  beats  no  more, 
III*  soul  ascends  the  eonal  skies. 

Ills  earthly  course  Is  o'er. 

For  this  we  mourn,  but  not  for  hinu 

Like  him  in  (jrod  we  trust; 
And  though  our  eyes  with  tears  are  diss. 

We  kuow  that  Uod  Is  just- 

The  congregation  joined  in  the-  slngiag-  with  no  Ut- 
ile unotion. 

Mr.  Emerson  thon  took  the  desk  and  delivered  an 
address  on  "Morals."  The  tonorof  thought  running- 
through  tho  discoureo  was  that  a  high  standard  of 
morality  faithfully  adberod  to,  gives  to  man  hunob- 
lest  thoughts  and  inspires  his  grandest  and  best  deeds 
"Morals  he  characterized  as  "Asoionce  of  substance 
and  not  of  shows."  In  troatlng  of  tho  power  whioh 
dovotion  to  a  grout  idoa  or  prineiplo  will  accomplish 
in  tho  individual,  and  out  in  socioty  and  tho  world, ho 
alluded  to  tho  rccont  ovonta  in  the  lifo  ef  John 
llrown.  The  deslro  of  giving  freedom  to  those  who 
woro  in  bondago — of  establishing  a  inoral[  intellectu- 
al, governmental  oquality — snob,  had  lifted  a«  ob- 
souru  Connecticut  farmer  into  the  regions  of  the  groat 
man  ;  aud  Kiado  all  others  appear  as  inferior  men. — 
It  was  hard,  ho  said,  to  mid  .in  all  history  so  noble  a 
man  an  this  who  dared  to  saerillee  life  to  principle. 
A  few  such  mon,  tho  speakorassortod,  had  dono  more 
for  the  world  than  all  tho  tribo  of  morely  Intellectual 
mon  mankind  has  ever  soon. 

In  this  connection  Mr.  Emerson  recited  the  follow- 
ing, very  appropriate  poem : 

A  man  there  came,  whence  none  could  tell, 
Bearing  a  touehatono  In  his  hand, 
And  tented  all  tulnvH  In  the  land 

By  its  Unerring  spoil. 

A  thousand  transformations  rose 
From  fair  to  foul,  from  foul  to  fair; 
The  golden  crown  he  did  not  share, 

Nor  scorn  tho  beggar's  clothes. 

Of  heirloom  Jewels  prized  so  much. 
Were  many  changed  to  chips  and  olods, 
And  even  statuos  of  the  gods 

Crumbled  beneath  its  touch. 

Then  angrily  tho  people  cried, 
•'  The  loss  outwolghs  the  profit  far, 
Our  goods  suffico  us  as  they  are, 

Wo  will  not  have  them  tried." 

But  since  they  could  not  uo  avail 
To  check  his  unrelenting  quest, 
Tt.cy  seised  him  siyiuj,  "let  him  taste 

How  real's  our  Jail." 

Dot  though  they  slew  him  with  the  sword, 
Aud  in  tho  lire  the  touchstone  burned, 
lta  doings  could  nut  be  o'ertui  nod, 

Its  undoings  reatercd. 

And  when,  to  stop  nil  further  harm. 
They  strewed  lis  allien  to  tho  breefie, 
'They  little  thought  each  gram  of  those, 
Convoyed  ihe  uivrlect  charm, 

Thoso  woro  tho  only  ulluaious  insido  to  Brown. 
Qeo.  W.  Curtis  will  give  uu   address  next  .Sunday 
on  "  Tho  l'rosont  uspcots  of  American  Slavory." 

[N,Y,  Evening  Express. 
Tues.,  Dec.  6,  1859, 
page  1.] 


-fr  —  J=  "all      y  •> 

—    C       .     U\L    **    "    -.    i"  .£1 

v  5  C  =ft"      §«5  a 

?°  £  go  0-a.st  e 

>  S  o  <sfi  —  rs«      »•  .. 

«  e-  ?r-3-  "jCgS 

>>?i  2  *£  p«e«  c_ 

acP*'-=:~wlC.'»?; 
.=  -  k'S  c  o-  SB  Co 

=  "o3«JOobPji 

ri':J  =  c5«»»4 

SSSbKS'S.SSHBH 


SS.S-- 


to  p 

il 


CO   €>   M 

„  ? 

■i  a-o° 
3  -sit 

o"2<-,  k- 
-Ceo 


2    a 


r-  c  c  o 


Ice  £ 
■  o—  ° 

1       °^5 

:  *»  m  O 


9 
g 


=  s  _ 
3* 

T3  — 


zl 


so"? 

i  S  °  "  o 


.-r  0-3  Otj  >>=>  >• 

«    ^     OS    o  *-*JQ^Z     - 

ili4ii! 

iScli    3d" 

¥'a|3aS„-S 
=  .»?a3  =  «  °  O 
s  £z*  «-=  =2ie 

2:a^3P 

S  ="s    --^    si's 

rt"*Oa-  S-  3  ° 
"  S  a  a  Pv&»i  g  o 


-a-^l'ij 

sSSBlat2 

"glials 

•a  =  g      i  u  § 

o  3 
ex  *  °cj 


°1s|1 

"O  a  Q.'-'-r; 


*» » 


s« 


J  5   <s.a  O  O—  0  N 


BV3  •  ^  la  S  <?-tJ 


-  —  a  «>  ►•  a  = 
S  •*  -^2  *"  3  •< 
O.V,  a"-        rfs  «> 
s  a_  •  ^  > 


<u  » 


S  5 


1«Hae 
3r  u  ?  *  fti 

a  •=  «■?  £"= 


;><3 


aa.2i&g3H 


jo  =  B  a  5 

■  -  «"2  ? 
&^|&° 

i;  -  E  a  t 

©  X    .  c  -a 

a  ■  £  o  " 
""".|-& 
|S§a- 

5?atS 


illifgLfl" 


0  t3  a."-*  a  u  ^- . 


nsa  5 -tii '5  °  »  £3      •;  o-"<S-5-3  3  a  a -(•3  a  ° 


nx:--a  a  h  "a  B' 


'.si 


THE'  NORTH  AMERICAN    REVIEW, 
nor  U  1e  iolJa. 


OcroBam.    Tick-     2S5|a  =  '3?l5|-2§S!|l^a 


--•a  fc,°  2 


Among  tho  literary  pnpors,  tho  notice  of  Henry 
D.  Thorcau  will  attract  attention  by  its  koen  an- 
alysis of  tho  pretensions  of  that  conceited  and  soli- 
tary humorist,  and  its  lively  pictures  of  tho  intel- 
lectual movement  in  New-England,  of  which  Mr. 
R.  W.  Emerson  and  Thoreau  may  be  regarded  as 
the  products  and  exponents.  "We  give  a  bit  from 
the  curious  history  described  by  tho  writer. 

What  cotomporary.  If  be  was  In  the  fighting  period 
of  his  life,  (since  Nature  sots  limits  about  ber  conscrip- 
tion for  spiritual  fields,  us  tho  State  docs  in  phy6icul 
warfare.)  will  ever  forget  what  was  somewhat  yaguoly 
called  the  "  Transcendental  Movement  "  of  thirty  j  ears 
ago.  Apparently  Bet  astirrlne  by  Cailyle's  essays  on 
the  "  Signs  of  the  Times."  and  on  "History,"  the  final 


1  - °^^  fc  2 
il"*  =  a, a  a      ~Z 


03  ~ 


a'a!^ 


filial!!!^ 

"2<-2  *-•  ™  3  «  g'S'o  k«a  '?E 

a^Jae^a-aiSa*-^! 

§2'3'5:§§'"  ""jseb-sgS 
««^-?S-^-a.iSS;.»c.2! 


ll^li 


a-    ^OBK*yPH„gU?|C 


<3  j=  a  a 


^         5    ■      -   3    ° 

C.O-J  a  g  a 

S.^Sp* 

S2g§2    2 

-Sails* 

■3  a  ^  >>:    2  2 

•A   °  "3"3ii 

;^=2»5* 


ccpt  Shakespeare;  but  there  Is  a  gougo  of  night  no 
Icbs  than  of  urnadtb.  of  Individuality  as  well  os  of  com- 
prehensiveness, nnd,  above  nil,  there  in  tho  otnndard  of 
genetio  power,  tho  tcstof  tlicmnsoullne  asdlstiugulshod 
from  l ho  rcccptivo  minds.  Ihern  ure  Bf-Blninnto  plants 
in  Ittersturo.  that  innko  no  lino  show  ol  frnit,  bat  with- 
out whoso  pollen,  the  quintessence  of  fructifying  gold, 
tho  garden  hnd  been  bnrron.  Einorson's  inlud  Is  em- 
phatically ono  of  these,  nnd  tbcro  is  no  man  to  whom 
our  (esthetic  culluro  owen  so  much.  The  Puritan  revolt 
hnd  iniule  us  ncelvbinKllcnlly,  ond  tho  Involution  politi- 
c .>lly  Independent,  but  wo  wero  still  socially  and  Intel 
Icctually  moored  to  English  thought,  till  Emorson  cut 
tho  cable  nnd  gnvo  us  e  ohnnco  at  the  dangers  and  tbo 
glories  of  blue  wator.  Komnn  young  enough  to  bavo 
felt  it  onn  forget,  or  coaso  to  be  grateful  for,  tho  mental 
and  moral  nudge  which  ho  rcoeived  from  tho  writings 
of  his  high-minded  and  brave  spirited  countryman. 
That  wo  agree  with  him,  or  that  he  always  agrees  with 
himself,  is  uside  from  tho  question;  but  that  he  arouses 
in  ns  something  that  we  nro  the  better  for  baviug  awak- 
ened, whether  that  something  be  of  opposition  or  as- 
sent, that  he  speaks  always  to  what  is  highest  and  least 
selfish  in  us,  fmv  Americans  of  tho  generation  younger 
than  his  own  would  be  disposed  to  deny.  11  in  oration 
before,  the  Pbi  Beta  Kappa  Society  at  Cambridge,  some 
thirtj  years  ago,  was  an  event  without  any  former  par- 
allel in  our  literary  annals,  a  scone  to  bo  always  treas- 
ured in  the  memory  for  its  picturesqueness  and  its  In- 
spiration. AVfint  crowded  and  breathless  aisles,  what 
windows  clustering  with  eager  heads,  what  enthusiasm 
of  approval,  what  grim  silence  of  foregone  dissent  I 
It  was  oar  Yankee  version  of  a  locturo  by  Abelard,  oar 
Harvard  parallel  to  the  last  publio  appearances  of 
Fiobte. 

Mr.  Thorenti  is  more  happily  delineated  b/*  the 
critic,  who  appears  to  have  gained  a  true  perception 
of  the  "Waldon  Pond  philosopher,  in  spite  of  tho 
illusory  vail:  Which  his.  adulators  hava  thrown 
around  his  remains  sinco  his  decease. 

lie  seems  to  ns  to  havo  been  a  man  with  so  high  a 
conceit  of  himself  that  ho  ocoeptcd  without  question- 
ing, and  insisted  on  our  accepting,  his  defects  nnd 
weaknesses  of  diameter  os  virtues  nnd  powers  peculiar 
to  lilmsclt.  Was  he  InJolent.  he  finds  none  of  the  no- 
tlvitlos  which  uttrnct  or  employ  the  rest  of  mankind 
worthy  of  him.  AVas  ho  wonting  In  the  qualities  that 
makesncccss.it  is  snecess  that  is  contemptible,  and 
not  himself  that  lacks  persistency  and  purpose.  Was 
he  poor,  money  wss  an  unmixed  evil.  l)id  his  life 
seem  a'selfish  one,  ho  condomns  doing  good  as  one  of 
tho  wenkeBt  of  snperstitions.  To  bu  of  uso  was  with 
him  tho  most  killing  bait  of  the  wily  tomptcr  Uselces- 
ness.  He  had  no  faculty  of  generalization  from  outside 
of  himself,  or  at  least  no  experience  which  would  supply 
tho  material  of  such,  and  he  makes  hlB  own  whim  tho 
law,  his  own  range  tho  horizon  of  the  unircise.  He 
condemns  ft  world,  tho  hollowness  of  wboso  satisfac- 
tions he  had  never  had  the  means  of  testing,  and  wo 
recoenizo  Apcmantus  behind  the  mask  of  Tiroon.  He 
had  little  active  imagination-,  of  the  leceptive  ho  had 
much.  His  appreciation  is  of  the  highest  quality;  his 
critical  power,  from  want  of  continuity  of  mind,  very 
limited  and  Inadequate.  Ho  somewhere  cites  a  simile 
from  Oi-sian,  as  au  example  of  the  superiority  of  the  old 
poetry  to  tho  new,  though,  even  wore  the  historic  evi- 
dence less  convincing,  the  sentimental  melancholy  of 
those  poems  should  be  conoluBive  of  their  moderniicss. 
He  had  no  artistic  power  such  as  controls  a  grent  work 
to  tho  S'.Teno  halanco  of  completeness,  but  exquisite 
mechanical  skill  in  the  shaping  of  sentences  and  para- 
graphs, or  (moro  rarely)  short  bits  of  verse  for  tbo  ex- 
pression of  a  detached  thought,  sentiment,  or  Image, 
liis  works  giro  one  the  feeling  of  a  sky  fall  of  stars. — 
something  impressive  and  exhilarating  certainly,  some- 
thing high  overhead  and  freckled  thickly  with  spots  of 
Isolated  brightness;  bnt  whether  these  huve  any  mutual 
relation  with  each  other,  or  have  any  concern  with  our 
mundane  mnticrs,  is  for  the  most  part  matter  of  con- 
jecture.— astrology  as  yet,  and  not  astronomy. 

J»  Is  enrious,  considering  what  Thuroan  afterward 
became,  that  be  was  not  by  nature  an  observer.  Ho 
only  saw  the  things  he  looked  for,  and  was  lees  poet 
than  naturalist.  Till  be  built  hisWnldcn  shanty,  he 
did  not  know  that  the  hickory  grew  in  Concord.  Till 
bo  went  to  Maine,  be  bad  never  seen  phosphorescent 
wood,  a  phenomenon  early  familiar  to  most  country 
boys.  At  forty  ho  sp?oks  of  the  seeding  of  the  pine  as 
a  new  discovery,  though  one  should  huve  thought  that 
its  gold-dust  ot  blowing  pollen  might  have  earlier  drawn 
his  eye.  Neither  his  attention  nor  his  genius  was  of  the 
spontaneous  kind.  He  discovered  nothing.  He 
thought  everything  a  discovery  of  his  own,  from  moon- 
light to  tho  planting  of  acorns  and  nuts  by  squirrels. 
This  is  a  delect  in  bis  character,  but  one  of  his  chief 
charms  ns  a  writer.  Everything  grows  fresb  under  his 
band.  He  delved  in  his  mind  ana  nature;  he  plunted 
thorn  with  all  manner  of  native  and  foreign  seeds,  nnd 
reaped,  assiduously.  Ho  was  not  merely  solitary,  he 
would  bo  isolntod.  and'aucceeded  at  last  in  almost  per- 
suading himself  that  ho  was  autochthonous.  Ho  valued 
everything  in  proportion  as  ho  fanoicd  It  to  bo  exclu- 
sively bis  own.  Ho  complains  in  "SVnlden,"  that 
tbero  Is  no  ono  in  Couoord  with  whom  be  could  talk  Of 
Onential  literature,  though  tho  man  was  living  withiu 
two  DiileH  of  his  hut  who  hud  lntroduoed  huu  to  it. 
This  intellectual  selfishness  becomes  sometimes   almost 


197 

painful  in  reading  him.  He  lacked  that  generosity 
of  '•  communication"  which  Johnson  admired  iu 
Burko.  I)o  Quincey  tells  us  that  Wordsworth  was 
impatient  when  any  ono  olse  spoke  of  mountains,  as 
if  ho  had  a  peculiar  property  in  them.  And  we  onn 
readily  understand  why  it  should  be  so:  no  ono  is  satis- 
fied with  another's  appreciation  of  his  mistress.  But 
Tbifftau  seems  to  havo  prized  a  lofty  way  of  thinking 
(often  we  should  bo  inclined  to  call  it  a  reniolo  one)  not 
so  -much  bocauso  it  was  good  in  itself  us  liceauso  be 
wished  few  to  sharo  it  with  him.  It  seems  now  and 
thon  as  if  be  did  not  seek  to  Jure  others  up  "  ulxivo  our 
lower  region  of  turmoil,"  but  to  leavo  bis  own  uamo  cut 
on  tho  mountain  peak  as  tbo  lirst  climber.  This  iloh  of 
originality  infects  bis  thought  and  stylo.  To  bo  misty 
is  not  to  hp  mystic.  Ho  turns  commonplaces  ond  fur 
end,  and  fancies  it  makes  soinothlng  new  of  thorn.  As 
we  wulk  down  I'aik-at.,  our  oyo  is  caught  by  I)r. 
Windbhip'a  dumb-bells,  one  of  which  boars  en 
insoriptiuu  tcstitlving  that  it  is  tho  heaviest 
over  put  at  arms  length  by  any  athlete;  and  iu 
rending  Mr.  Thorcau's  books  we  cannot  help  fooling  as 
if  ho  sometimes  Invited  our  attention  to  a  particular 
sophism  or  paradox  as  the  biggest  yet  maintained  by 
any  siuglo  writer.  Ho  seeks,  ut  ull  risks,  for  perversity 
of  thought,  and  revives  the  age  of  concttn  whilo  lie 
fancies  himself  going  back  to  a  pre-clus.slcal  nature. 
"  A  day,"  bo  says,  "passed  in  the  sooiety  of  those  Greek 
sages,  such  as  described  in  the  Banquet  of  Xenophou. 
would  not  be  comparable  with  tho  dry  wit  of  decayed 
cranberry-vines  and  the  fresh  Attic  salt  of  the  moss- 
beds."  It  is  not  so  much  the  True  that  ho  loves  as  the 
Out-of-the-Way,  As  the  Brazen  Age  shows  itself  in 
other  men  by  exaggeration  of  pbruse,  so  id  him  by 
extravagance  of  statement.  Hew  Uhes  always  to  trump 
your  suit  and  to  ruff  when  yon  lonst  expeot  It.  Ho  you 
love  Mature  because  she  is  beautiful  I  He  will  hnd  a 
better  argument  in  her  ugliness.  Are  you  tired  of  the 
artificial  man)  He  instantly  dresses  you  up  an  ideal 
in  a  Penobscot  Indian,  and  attributes  to  this  creature 
of  his  otherwise- unndadness  as  peculiarities  things  that 
are  common  to  all  woodsmen,  white  or  rod,  and  this 
simply  because  ho  has  not  studied  the  pale-fucod  variety. 
The  theological  readers  of  the  "North  American" 
will  find  a  profound  and  original  vein  of  discussion 
opened  in  the  articlo  on  "Faith  and  Science," 
which  treats  of  the  higher  questions  of  man's 
religious  nature  with  signal  ability  and  force. 

[N.Y.  Tribune.  XXV,  no. 
7,660,  Oct.  26,  1865, 
page  6] 

^-  J.  R.  Lowell's  article. 


Emrriioii. 

Tho  following  criticism  on  the  most  origi- 
nal of  our  poets  differs  widely  from  any 
that  has  before  been  offered  to  the  public. 
We  take  it  without  permission  from  a  pri- 
vate letter,  but  its  excellence  is  excuse 
enough.  It  is  of  that  sort  which  goes  irre- 
sistibly into  print  without  asking  leave  of 
any  body : 

"I  have  just  been  reading  Emerson's  Represen- 
tative Men.  The  work  is  so  manifestly  full  of  gen- 
ius, the  good  part  so  signalizes  itself,  the  flashes 
are  so  much  before  the  eye,  and  the  subtlety  of 
the  truth  and  remark  so  penetrating,  that  I  feel 
no  manner  of  ability  to  praise  the  book,  or  to 
speak  well  of  it.  When  anything  rises  to  a  cer- 
tain excellence,  the  best  service  you  can  do  is  to 
abuse  it.  I  feel  it  a  great  pity  that  abusing  has 
fallen  so  entirely  into  the  hands  of  enemies  ;  that 
it  has  become  diabolic,  when  it  ought  to  be 
rescued  and  to  be  put  into  the  hands  of  friends. 
It  is  as  though  tho  surgeon  should  be  chosen 
for  hating  you  instead  of  for  loving,  and  should 
put  a  spice  of  cruelty  into,  his  slashes,  when 
all  jou  want  is  clean  cutting.  And  therefore 
if  I  were  able  to  tbink  of  reviewing  Emerson,  I 
should  vindicate  to  myself  the  right  of  finding 
nothing  but  fault.  If  he  were  one  of  those  thick, 
phlegmatic  geniuses  whose  souls  are  deep  though 
their  eyes  are  leaden,  and  who  are  diamonds  only 
in  their  whito-liot  moments,  it  would  be  wrong  to 


throw  any  discredit  upon  a  greatness  which  t 
public  already  discredits  ;  but  on  tho  contrary  h 
is  mere  light,  electricity,  sunset,  north  shine,  r.na 
imponderable  essence ;  and  the  best  way  to  re- 
ceive him,  and  the  only  way  to  exhibit  him,  is  ot. 
a  dark  ground  of  criticism  and  heavy  remark.  The 
worst  of  it  is,  I  know  of  nothing  black  enough  to 
set  him  properly  off.  I  have  tried,  by  putting 
Atheist  behind  him,  to  see  how  his  Comotship 
would  show,  but  alas  t  he  illuminated  tho  torm, 
hnd  lightened  it  away,  ftnd  I  found  that  I  aavtf 
through  him  into  the  profound.  So,  unfortunately, 
I  fell  through. 

"  His  lecture  on  Swedenborg  is,  however,  the 
only  ono  on  which  I  could  say  a  word.  I  find 
Ralph  Waldo  guilty  of  great  timidity  and  ghost- 
fearing  in  shirking  the  whole  problem  of  his  spir- 
itual experience  as  he  docs,  in  annihilating  the 
spiritual  world  by  a  mere  dislike  and  noli  tangere. 
The  thing  is  too  hard  for  that,  and  haunts  the  man 
in  spite  of  his  rapid  revolutions  of  his  back.  A 
murdered  world  will  be  avenged,  and  though 
Emerson  wishes  to  face  every  thing,  and  to  have, 
no  back,  yet  let  him  stand  ever  so  planely  with  his 
dorsum  up  against  the  wall,  the  ghost  will  intrude 
between  wall  and  dorsum,  and  establish  a  haunt. 
It  is  useless  to  turn  the  back  upon  things  to  which 
every  thing  is  interstitial,  and  every  interstice 
roomy.  So  my  friend's  first  fault  is  timiditt, 
which  is  only  not  recognized  as  such  on  account 
of  its  vast  proportions.  I  grant,  then,  that  the 
funk  is  sublime,  Which  is  a  true  and  friendly  ad- 
mission. 

"  The  next  fault  to  be  signalized  is  Emerson's 
excessive  orthodoxy.  His  objections  to  Swe- 
denborg are  the  most  advanced  objections  of  or- 
thodoxy, carried  out  to  an  Emersonic  length.  All 
the  ordinary  heterodoxy  is  nothing  but  the  other 
extreme  of  plain  and  current  views.  Orthodoxy 
Is  the  stake  to  which  it  is  painfully  tethered.  The 
Heterodox  man  exclaims  that  he  is  far  from  that 
center.  Yes,  says  the  Orthodox,  but  what  you 
call  distance,  /call  string.  Now  Emerson  and 
the  Bishop  of  London  are  but  positive  and  nega- 
tive of  ono  thing,  but  inward  fruit  and  outward 
rind,  which  by  their  very  opposition  copulate  into 
one  form,  and  carry  forward  one  force.  Whereas 
Swedenborg  belongs  to  a  new  order,  which  stands 
with  its  feet  equally  upon  both.  The  negative 
patronizes  him  for  tho  time  as  good  against  the 
positive  ;  but  he  is  really  poised  and  supported 
with  one  leg  upon  either.  And  tho  positive  has 
as  much  right  to  him  as  the  negative.  The  se- 
cond accusation  then  is,  that  Emerson,  terribly 
tied  to  Orthodoxy,  cannot  suspect  for  a  moment 
that  hero  is  a  phenomenon  outlying  it  and  com- 
mencing to  supersede  it;  and  hence  he  judges 
Swedenborg  from  the  normal  and  orthodox  print 
as  a  child  accustomed  to  the  sight  of  cheeses,  will 
have  the  moon  to  be  a  green  specimen  of  that 
genus. 

"  My  third  accusation  is,  his  exaggerated  secta- 
rianism. Unitarianism,  carried  out  to  its  last  con- 
sequences, furnishes  his  guide  to  possibility  and 
his  inmost  point  of  viow.  I  know  that  he  re- 
pugns Unitarianism.  But  when  a  man  knocks 
down  his  own  papa,  he  docs  not  thereby  cease  to 
belong  to  the  family  ;  nay,  if  his  father  has  done 
tho  like  to  his  grandfather,  he  is  only  the  moro  a 
chip  of  the  old  block  for  knocking  down  his  father. 
It  is  not  by  going  from  thick  to  thin  that  you  alter, 
but  by  becoming  a  new  mind  through  both  thick 
and  thin.  But  all  this  is  too  short  to  be  readily 
intelligible.  I  have  only  succeeded  in  hinting  at 
a  back  ground  for  this  Elfin  sword  gloani— this 
brother  of  the  lightning;  but  whether  the  canvas 
will  stand  his  luminous  emanations,  I  cannot 
say." 


O 

CO 


o 
to 

00 


m 


American  Transcendental  Quarterly 
journal  of  new  england  writers 

DRAWER    1080 
HARTFORD.   CONNECTICUT     06101 


U 


A  WORD-INDEX  TO 


A  WEEK 

ON  THE  CONCORD 

AND  MERRIMACK 

RIVERS 


By 

JAMES    KARABATSOS 


TRANSCENDENTAL  BOOKS— DRAWER  1080— HARTFORD  06101 


COPYRIGHT  1971  BY 
KENNETH  WALTER  CAMERON 


TO  MY  WIFE 


INTRODUCTION 

This  Word-Index  is  based  on  the  standard  Walden  edition,  which  serves  as  a  scholarly  primary  text. 
Since  it  is  not  a  substitute  for  the  primary  text,  the  most  troublesome  problem  was  to  determine  its 
comprehensiveness.   Compilers  usually  delete  common  function  words  (articles,  prepositions,  conjunctions), 
certain  pronouns,  auxiliary  verb  forms,  and  some  common  verbs  (be,  have,  do) ,  which  often  comprise  nearly 
half  the  individual  words  of  a  given  text,  although  they  may  be  significant,  especially  to  the  student  of 
stylistics.   The  frequency  of  personal  pronouns  like  1^,  for  example,  is  directly  related  to  the  persona. 
Consequently,  the  fact  that  the  Week  contains  566  uses  of  I_,  whereas  Walden  contains  1181,  invites  exami- 
nation; similarly  the  frequency  of  intensifiers  in  certain  contexts  often  reveals  important  stylistic 
values;  so,  too,  the  use  of  negatives  in  conjunction  with  personal  pronouns  may  reveal  modes  of  assertion 
and  qualification.   This  index  excludes  all  items  occurring  more  than  100  times,  except  those  that  are 
especially  important  in  A  Week :  man,  men,  river ,  and  water ■   Similarly,  chapter  titles  are  entered  in  a 
number  supplement,  not  in  the  main  index;  quoted  prose  is  not  indexed;  and  quoted  poetry  is  indexed  in  a 
separate  appendix.   Although  Ernest  E.  Leisey  has  identified  all  poetic  allusions  in  the  Week,  coding 
them  to  the  Riverside  edition,  this  index  codes  them  to  the  Walden  edition  in  another  appendix.   All 
numerals,  dates,  initials,  title  words,  foreign  words  and  expressions— most  of  which  are  botanical  and 
piscatory  classif ications--are  contained  in  yet  another  supplement.   In  general,  the  index  contains  all 
words  in  the  Walden  edition  except  the  following,  whose  frequencies  are  listed  parenthetically,  together 
with  the  frequencies  of  these  deleted  words  as  they  appear  in  J.  Stephen  Sherwin  and  Richard  C.  Reynolds' 
A  Word  Index  to  Walden  (Charlottesville,  Virginia,  1960) : 


Week 

Walden 

Week 

Walden 

Week 

Walden 

a 

2166 

(2781) 

for 

660 

(884) 

nor 

73 

(104) 

they 

535 

(615) 

about 

99 

(154) 

from 

455 

(474) 

not 

766 

(909) 

this 

452 

(513) 

above 

71 

(40) 

had 

397 

(508) 

now 

170 

(122) 

those 

93 

(113) 

after 

93 

(95) 

has 

211 

(220) 

of 

3374 

(3225) 

though 

133 

(174) 

all 

323 

(447) 

have 

514 

(600) 

off 

58 

(109) 

through 

148 

(143) 

along 

68 

(31) 

he 

484 

(693) 

on 

677 

(676) 

time 

151 

(161) 

am 

50 

(91) 

her 

124 

(71) 

one 

317 

(463) 

to 

2346 

(2743) 

an 

273 

(356) 

here 

120 

(79) 

only 

244 

(248) 

too 

86 

(73) 

and 

4097 

(4237) 

him 

169 

(246) 

or 

565 

(819) 

two 

71 

(144) 

any 

171 

(200) 

his 

687 

(658) 

other 

125 

(150) 

under 

79 

(91) 

are 

642 

(591) 

how 

98 

(140) 

our 

594 

(294) 

up 

185 

(213) 

as 

1107 

(1116) 

I 

566 

(1181) 

out 

159 

(219) 

upon 

61 

(60) 

at 

529 

(606) 

if 

344 

(486) 

over 

149 

(182) 

us 

277 

(105) 

be 

515 

(645) 

in 

1792 

(1931) 

said 

66 

(68) 

very 

101 

(119) 

been 

161 

(156) 

into 

187 

(183) 

say 

58 

(68) 

was 

546 

(828) 

before 

119 

(125) 

is 

1289 

(1171) 

see 

114 

(129) 

we 

1017 

(442) 

being 

63 

(98) 

it 

1173 

(1389) 

seen 

95 

(62) 

wel  1 

102 

(111) 

between 

94 

(47) 

its 

429 

(351) 

shall 

47 

(54) 

were 

368 

(375) 

but 

738 

(715) 

last 

83 

(99) 

she 

46 

(44) 

what 

222 

(247) 

by 

548 

(641) 

life 

149 

(192) 

should 

110 

(153) 

when 

284 

(393) 

can 

152 

(156) 

like 

233 

(285) 

so 

331 

(431) 

where 

198 

(193) 

could 

114 

(169) 

long 

116 

(136) 

some 

331 

(346) 

which 

778 

(793) 

day 

118 

(172) 

many 

137 

(164) 

still 

232 

(163) 

while 

124 

(108) 

did 

75 

(125) 

may 

181 

(189) 

such 

166 

(191) 

who 

247 

(339) 

do 

127 

(181) 

me 

115 

(306) 

than 

253 

(292) 

whom 

43 

(31) 

does 

78 

(82) 

might 

58 

(96) 

that 

8  54 

(1199) 

whose 

86 

(68) 

down 

138 

(111) 

more 

289 

(332) 

the 

7141 

(6750) 

will 

210 

(242) 

even 

169 

(162) 

most 

142 

(185) 

their 

526 

(450) 

with 

797 

(813) 

every 

82 

(121) 

much 

96 

(146) 

them 

233 

(306) 

without 

111 

(144) 

far 

92 

(100) 

my 

167 

(722) 

then 

84 

(118) 

would 

193 

(305) 

few 

86 

(72) 

never 

138 

(158) 

there 

415 

(370) 

yet 

140 

(138) 

first 

91 

(120) 

no 

257 

(261) 

these 

195 

(153) 

you 

165 

(295) 

Despite  its  efficiency  and  accuracy,  the  IBM  1130  computer  used  in  this  project  is  subject  to  certain 
limitations  because  its  disc  has  a  small  storage  capacity.   Setting  aside  the  twenty-six  letters  of  the 
alphabet  and  ten  numerals  leaves  only  five  digits  for  assignment  to  the  blank,  the  quotation  mark,  the 
hyphen,  the  apostrophe,  and  the  slash.   The  last  of  these  was  used  to  bring  together  such  units  as  "Concord 
River"  and  "Sir  Walter  Raleigh."   Although  some  indexes  separate  such  elements,  listing,  for  example, 
"Concord"  among  the  c ' s  and  "River"  among  the  r ' s,  in  this  index  such  units  appear  in  their  entirety  under 
the  first  letter  of  the  leading  word.   Secondly,  the  computer  does  not  differentiate  capitalized  words. 
This  index,  however,  lists  separate  entries  for  some  capitalized  forms.   Thus  there  are  distinct  entries 
for  God  and  god.  Spirit  and  spirit ,  Being  and  being,  etc.   Words  at  the  beginning  of  a  sentence  appear  as 
capitalized  in  the  index  only  if  proper  nouns.   Phrases  and  words  that  Thoreau  italicized  primarily  for 
emphasis  are  not  italicized  in  this  index;  similarly  book  titles  that  do  not  appear  in  italics  in  the 
Walden  edition  are  not  in  italics  in  the  index.   Hyphenated  words  are  reproduced  just  as  they  appear  in 
the  Walden  edition.   Where  such  words  are  hyphenated  at  the  end  of  a  line,  they  are  entered  in  the  index 
in  this  way  only  where  all  references  of  the  word  in  the  text  are  so  treated.   Where  the  text  reveals 
variant  practices,  both  forms  are  listed  in  the  main  index. 

The  appendices,  which  collect  entries  according  to  the  major  concerns  in  the  Week,  will,  I  hope, 
prove  useful.   Appendix  A  is  a  guide  to  proper  names.   Appendix  B  is  a  list  of  Thoreau ' s  poetic  sources. 
Appendix  C  collects  Thoreau ' s  own  poetry  which  he  liberally  sprinkled  throughout  A  Week.   Following  the 
poetry  appendices  are  four  general  ones,  selected  to  provide  guides  to  key  considerations  of  the  book: 
(D)  Ethics,  Philosophy,  and  Religion;  (E)  Language,  Style,  and  Literature;  (F)  Topography;  and  (G)  Mythology 
and  History.   Some  entries  are  listed  in  more  than  one  place  since  the  categories  are  not  mutually  ex- 
clusive; and  even  though  only  the  base  form  of  the  entry  is  listed,  the  user  can  explore  all  related  forms 
in  the  main  index.   The  governing  principle  of  these  appendices  is  to  provide  clues  to  meanings  beyond 
the  literal  denotations. 

I  owe  thanks  to  many  who  contributed  to  this  work:   to  Professor  Dudley  Bailey,  who  directed  my 
dissertation  which  is  the  basic  source  of  this  index;  to  Fr .  Edward  Sharp,  Director  of  the  Computer  Center, 
Creighton  University,  who  made  available  its  resources  and  who  wrote  the  program  for  the  project;  to  my 
close  friend.  Professor  Reloy  Garcia,  who  contributed  many  valuable  ideas  and  assisted  in  some  editorial 
tasks;  and  finally  to  my  wife,  who  key-punched  the  bulk  of  the  text,  aided  in  the  proof-reading,  typed 
the  manuscript,  and  provided  encouragement  during  long  hours  of  "harmless"  drudgery. 


a   #2166 

abandoned  237.6 

abandonment  290.19 

abates  282.15 

Abelard  60.20 

abet  244.29 

abettors  406.24 

abide  111.18   378.31 

abides  133.11 

abiding  21.3   156.28 

ability  133.15 

able  99.18   290.27   376.9 

385.4 
able-bodied  34.27 
able-souled  78.6 
ablutions  210.4 
Abner  359.2 

aboard  223.24   223.29   273.24 
abode  182.4   405.11 
Abol jacknagesic  28.15 
aboriginal  156.23 
aborigines  168.4   251.22   342.2 
abound  211.4 
about   #99 
above   #71 
abraded  88.29 
Abraham  71.11   346.15 
abrasion  375.26 
abreast  29.6 
abr  idgment  s  154.24 
abroad  39.28   79.27   119.8 

163.25  188.1   317.9 
419.16 

abrupt  129.16 

abruptly  166.1   321.26 

absence  288.16 

absolute  65.11   185.29   386.4 

404.21 
absolutely  74.13   138.30 
absolved  383.28 

absorbed  141.22   141.27   417.21 
absorbs  118.11 
absorption  141.5 
abstract  386.30 
abstracted  47.31 
abstraction  143.5 
abundance  8.14   381.20 
abundant  32.3   167.24   210.19 

226.31 
abundantly  210.23 
abused  10.18 
abuses  283.25 
abutment  407.28 
abutments  14.15   49.11 
accents  102.10   288.22 
accept  286.26   301.9 
accepted  74.18   155.1 
accessible  122.2   309.12   390.19 
accident  189.23   311.30   351.12 
accidental  93.11   263.31   282.25 
accidents  26.14 
accompanied  246.3   342.8 
accompanies  231.21 
accompany  11.7   96.19 
accomplice  329.13 
accomplices  79.26 

accomplish  116.27   162.28   311.21 
accomplished  25.18   62.24 
according  3.15   8.22   26.18 

27.28      31.30      57.14      58.8 

64.2      64.24      93.1      113.24 

127.26  130.16   154.10   166.11 
175.12   184.31   220.9   225.19 
260.29   267.31   269.21   322.24 


WORD  INDEX 

according  (cont.)  323.18   345.4 

346.11  379.23   379.30 
accordingly  174.21 
account  8.31   31.24   32.10 

33.27   35.17   96.21   168.16 
200.25   208.9   231.18   258.15 
303.18   308.1   346.11   347.11 
391.4   396.26   398.12   399.16 

accumulate  400.2 

accumulated  363.14   389.24 

accumulates  340.12   409.14 

accumulation  389.25 

accuracy  40.31   54.10   134.3 
388.25 

accurate  388.22   412.8   412.12 

accurately  348.27   412.14 

accustomed  32.13   35.9   90.30 
260.17   316.2   325.14 

Achilles  96.18   110.20 

acknowledge  79.6   404.21 

acorn  94.6   235.32 

acorns  212.16   266.17 

acoustics  417.24 

acquaintance  20.10   256.15   288.20 
296.9   298.4   312.21   396.10 

acquaintances  284.5   284.18 

289.29  300.28   303.29 
acquainted  72.22   295.10   347.14 
acquire  4.11   326.23   367.10 
acquired  14.28   65.10   93.11 

357.25   376.21   389.26 
acquires  202.2 
acre  373.20 
acres  4.26   8.23   36.30   104.19 

113.22  152.27   193.29   209.4 
250.29 

Acropolis  54.25 

across  29.24   38.1   38.25   70.25 
107.9   122.12   175.25   191.1 
213.28   224.1   227.29   260.17 

334.23  344.9   370.2   375.21 
407.3 

act  48.28   285.30   315.23 

389.4 
acting  281.17   315.23   407.8 
action  108.9   142.31   271.1 

283.12  392.28   403.17 
actions  48.19   146.31   146.32 

280.11 
active  130.29   146.10   158.22 
activity  126.30   147.3   323.25 

356.9 
actor  74.19   333.13 
acts  331.3   418.28 
actual  156.16   182.7   202.17 

256.22   281.20   282.5   288.10 

310.6   315.21   315.23   347.7 

347.12   347.21 
actually  45.20   100.7   288.13 

334.7. 
acumen  162. 11 
Adam  346.12 
adamantine  71.30 
adapted  312.25   344.24 
add  59.13 
added  37.16   67.14   150.22 

164.21  216.27   228.28 

308.30  389.12   397.24   414.11 
addition  67.11   115.8 

address  61.19   108.28   286.6 
addressed  20.6   69.12   215.6 

288.22  363.31   364.2 
addresses  58.15   96.26   155.14 

156.8   156.27   183.6   366.24 


affection 

addresses  (cont.)  402.24 
addressing  111.26   273.10 
adequate  156.18   300.30 
adieu  20.6   21.7 
adjacent  18.22   19.21   42.1 

271.17   407.24 
adjoining  268.25 
adjusting  112.28 
administered  134.11 
admirable  36.14   304.3   312.4 

339.5 
admiration  161.29 
admire  397.14 

admired  36.15   138.6   223.20 
admiring  161.27 
admit  164.23   280.13 
admits  56.4   58.17   293.21 
admitted  55.14   149.9 
ado  261.1 
adopt  7.33 
adopted  79.20 
adopts  291.26 

adorn  303.12   355.13   402.3 
adorned  8.13   18.30   43.23 

170.10  230.25 
adorning  249.15 
adrift  36.1 
a-drinking  48.25 
adroitness  206.19 

advance  61.23   275.29   312.9 
advanced  57.2   161.28   213.3 

335.28  341.14   391.28 
advances  285.26 
advancing  126.27 
advantage  45.26   62.29   127.5 

148.11  190.13   194.29 
197.7   222.2   252.14   254.15 

282.29  287.24   294.17 

304.2   339.25   349.31   376.26 
advantages  282.25   282.28   296.6 
advent  250.11 
adventure  6.20   11.5   218.2 

247.30 
adventures  20.7   121.7   126.8 

127.11   173.17   231.23   308.1 
Adventures  of  Henry  228.15 
adventurous  191.25   253.16 

253.21 
adventurously  213.1   246.12 
adverse  361.10 
advertised  155.12   226.4 
advertisement  93.30 
advertisements  194.26   194.30 

195.5  195.22 

advice  112.18   140.26   156.20 
174.22   268.1   268.13   272.19 

301.6  301.9   303.28 
advise  163.25   300.19 
Aeacus  58.9 

Aegean  366.17 
Aegean  Sea  336.20 
Aegina  58.8 
Aeneas  136.2 
Aeolian  Harp  185.14 
Aeolus  274.22 
aeons  160.18 
aerial  40.5   182.27 

afar  58.30   199.14   245.26   367.27 
affair  294.17   380.27 
affairs  74.9   128.13   165.9 
affect  57.7   91.24   164.13   411.24 
affected  224.13 
affection  285.1   296.3   301.1 
399.4 


affectionate 


alternation 


affectionate  396.24   398.27 
affects  281.10   287.27 
affinity  141.4   285.24   304.27 
affirm  154.23 
affirmed  200.14   217.18   223.29 

261.11 
affirms  291.25   293.24 
afflicted  315.19 
afford  99.4   167.30   228.25 

276.3   293.16   299.15   305.6 

339.11   387.25 
afforded  181.16   190.16 
affords  166.20   271.16   321.29 
affront  287.4 
afield  37.10   52.11 
a-fishing  22.16   33.16   75.3 
afoot  325.6 
afraid  257.3 
Africa  253.27 
African  209.11 
aft  362.20 
after   #93 
afternoon  12.10   14.12   17.31 

20.24   31.28   32.29   33.16 

165.28   173.18   189.26   244.26 

274.28  338.8   341.9   341.12 
341.14   341.24   345.27   391.14 
416.9 

afternoons  22.18   27.11   364.12 

364.21 
afterward  32.6   40.2   84.21 

90.20   318.7   335.8 
afterwards  82.11   187.13   268.16 

397.7 
again  6.30   6.30   12.13   14.8 

19.30   24.30   32.22   34.25 

50.2   59.22   81.19   87.1   87.2 

88.29  91.29   98.10   122.5 

128.29  128.29   151.15'  158.5 
162.20   167.31   173.20   173.24 
179.7   180.28   183.7   183.7 
194.14   199.26   200.9   203.30 
204.31   208.13   216.4   219.30 

221.9  222.19   223.31   225.23 

225.29  245.12   248.4   254.11 
254.11   268.1   274.27   278.3 
292.23   300.24   311.31   325.31 

326.16  332.12   346.16   354.29 
355.14   365.4   365.19   374.3 
381.3   385.23   395.28   414.10 

against  5.21   35.6   36.7   36.15 
38.24   39.2   39.9   45.24 

70.30  72.4   72.13   96.21 

116.10  117.22   193.11   193.13 
196.9   205.31   215.16   229.29 
229.31   233.26   257.15   282.21 

304.14  305.10   308.18   320.12 
326.23   339.31   342.13   345.9 

362.15  377.5   416.24   420.18 
Agassiz  (M.)  26.18   31.30 

age  22.15   40.23   49.23   59.16 

138.2  144.5   144.5   150.3 

158.30  168.11   168.22   182.28 
182.23   211.22   237.21   247.31 

250.3  256.24   269.2   303.8 

327.11  328.17   346.10   361.15 
361.15   365.9   367.18   367.18 
388.13   392.5   392.10   395.23 

398.17  402.11   419.15   419.17 
aged  22.27   23.3 

agents  165.17 

ages  7.1   21.8   63.2   89.17 
98.4   141.20   164.21   167.18 

259.18  262.17   263.7   337.5 


ages  (cont.)  345.29   389.16 

392.8   403.13   411.12   416.29 

aggregation  59.19 

aggrieved  295.18 

Agiocochook  335.3 

agitate  20.26 

agitated  5.15 

ago  37.9   49.13   51.5  82.8 

123.25   127.27   128.22   148.4 

208.1  208.31   213.11   226.16 

271.21  323.16   345.13   346.1 
agog  360.17 

agreeable  166.6   418.22 

agreeably  43.25   272.13 

agreed  99.15 

agricultural  54.9   165.13   226.23 

agriculture  79.9   228.4 

aground  6.4   47.30   87.25 

ague  176.25 

ah  181.25   305.5 

ahead  49.7 

aid  60.18   111.21   197.28   262.8 

274.22  298.2   371.11   385.18 
aim  100.11   419.27 

aimed  349.13 

aiming    213.31 

air    13.18      29.5      35.6      44.12 

44.15  45.6   48.24   48.24 

72.16  86.17   118.13   132.3 
133.3   160.23   162.23   183.25 
185.14   185.23   215.15   220.3 

221.2  224.23   236.28   263.4 

274.11  277.28   292.27   302.11 

330.23  334.25   336.23   340.7 

340.12  353.3   354.6   359.26 

376.29  377.4   394.13   406.20 
airs  391.4 

airy  366.26 

aisles  49.1   167.17   355.7 

akin  148.10   418.18 

alabaster  301.29 

alarm  134.5   187.20 

alarm-bells  39.30 

alarmed  67.4 

alarum  206.16 

alas  33.21   73.8   101.28   126.8 

134.18   199.20   208.9   230.12 

290.11   300.29   363.21 
albumen  111.11 
alburnum  101.12 
Alcaeus  238.21 

alder  4.18   246.8   251.26   319.25 
alders  5.30   6.1   8.17   39.6 

116.13  128.5   130.24   249.25 
273.27   309.14   317.5   374.29 
alewives  32.3   33.4   34.7   91.2 

91.26 
Alexander  137.10   310.16 
Alexander  Henry's  Adventures 

230.16 
alienated  254.21 
alight  249.24   416.27 
alighted  252.21 
alighting  44.16 
alike  37.30   167.11 
alive  235.21   246.4   326.19 

343.30  345.8 
all   #323 
allegory  408.20 
all-embracing  283.1 
alliance  280.10 
allied  182.4   195.6 
alligators  78.22   137.9   226.6 
allow  164.4   165.8 


allowance  8.3   74.19   129.14 

263.5  391.5 

allowed  10.17   107.5   138.1 

146.13  177.15   239.10 
allows  159.22   236.17   288.21 

354.15  368.8 
all-searching  103.10 
allures  21.5 
alluring  221.2 
allusions  170.16 
ally  244.23   305.10 
allying  164.28 
almanac  110.4 
almighty  65.16   71.26 
almost  22.19   22.21   29.7 

35.18   38.29   45.4   72.11 
79.4   90.23   108.2   111.17 

126.28  152.18   155.29 

174.29  191.5   192.9   195.1 

210.14  225.11   252.15 
281.23   285.10   291.21 

322.6  327.12   330.4   341.1 

367.10  376.5   377.16   388.1 

393.19  399.5 
almshouse  293.18   293.19 
alone  6.19   13.23   20.2   31.30 

36.16   37.7   74.10   81.6 

96.26  127.10   149.28   151.21 

167.11  189.14   193.22 
202.13   204.3   211.7   225.11 
273.10   325.13   333.7   363.24 

367.10  377.20   383.3   388.5 
394.28   399.5 

along  #68 

alongside  273.21   274.15 

274.21 
aloof  333.11 
aloofness  55.13 
aloud  73.1   73.19   74.2   188.9 

220.2  285.17 
alphabet  71.17 
alphabets  167.10 
Alpheus  97.5   401.16 
Alps  148.14 

already  6.28   6.31   14.1   14.28 
29.22   37.16   49.17   59.2 
63.4   83.28   87.4   102.5 

102.11  104.29   111.9   118.17 

118.20  122.6   122.9   129.11 

151.16  157.17   158.28  179.18 

194.21  200.28   219.13 
254.21   287.14   308.4   335.10 

337.3  344.30   353.9   353.23 
356.5   357.26   358.3   363.18 
376.21   376.28   386.28 
388.20   406.28 

also  13.5   17.26   24.5   26.16 

29.27  57.21   82.12   91.4 
91.10   108.20   110.14   125.28 

126.4  141.9   161.1   166.3 
166.10   166.14   168.22 
207.18   209.18   220.4   225.12 

227.17  233.24   259.1   260.27 

270.26  271.25   272.8   296.19 
299.10   303.28   318.12 
336.13   336.21   337.13 

342.27  353.17   381.9   381.17 
381.31   390.10 

altered  164.22 

alternate  40.18   136.28   204.24 

291.5  343.17 
alternately  113.16   117.19 

314.18 
alternation  375.18 


altogether 


applications 


altogether  34.5   318.31   407.7 

Alwakidis'  162.5 

always  21.9   22.18   27.19   45.25 
55.31   61.23   75.14   96.11 
98.29   100.16   109.21   112.23 
128.15   132.17   146.8   153.17 
164.11   164.16   202.18   204.14 
236.29   237.26   238.4   240.6 

248.3  252.30   254.14   256.7 
258.1   265.21   272.12   272.18 
277.27   278.1   279.11   281.6 
288.15   295.16   295.19   297.4 
299.27   300.17   309.31   325.24 
328.31   331.14   331.24   333.14 
347.13   347.24   350.20   360.8 
360.19   362.3   365.23   367.29 
373.1   383.5   383.7   383.15 

386.1  389.13   394.25   400.3 
400.26   401.3   418.10 

am   #50 

amazed  110.14 

Amazon  198.16 

Amazons  212.7 

ambiguous  419.11 

ambrosia  365.6 

ambrosial  120.6   288.29   394.13 

ambuscade  174.24 

ambuscaded  227.14 

ambuscades  126.18 

ambushes  124.19 

amended  283.27   407.14 

amenities  54 .  3 

America  23.9   85.11   266.30 

346.20 
American  31.10   148.11   230.17 

250.4  253.26   254.22   268.24 
American  Indian  367.5 
Amesbury  87.15 

amid  17.27   21.26   22.13   28.4 

48.10  49.31   67.24   85.30 

86.11  90.4   173.29   191.8 
199.3   210.23   235.15   239.7 

249.2  249.25   327.27   339.16 

356.8  359.1   359.25   416.30 
amidst  105.19 

among  5.30   39.19   39.25   60.4 
62.2   64.6   66.11   76.35   84.3 
99.20   151.12   151.22   173.26 
193.2   204.10   213.27   222.29 
230.17   284.25   287.25   287.25 
308.31   309.14   324.11   327.3 
335.1   342.6   342.22   358.1 
358.29   361.8   363.5   382.31 
396.22   411.19 

Amonoosuck  334.25   334.30 

Amos  3  59.2 

Amoskeag  261.5   261.26   262.23 

271.9  273.16   307.12 
Amoskeag  Falls  260.9   260.29 
amount  145.26  164.11 
amphibious  13.9   28.2 
ampleness  406.14 

amused  108.12   408.19 

amusement  254.12   261.4 

amusements  320.13 

an   #273 

Anacreon  238.12 

anal  25.31 

analogous  388.19 

analyzed  350.16 

ancestors  33.7   136.5   160.16 

174.9   176.23   246.25 
ancestry  24.17 
Anchises  136.2 


anchor  12.3   19.30   22.6 

79.23   87.25   165.27   273.26 

anchored  118.23 

anchorite  45.23 

ancient  10.7   40.20   49.18   53.15 
57.9   59.9   60.11   64.9   65.27 
70.19   84.28   87.10   93.18 
102.11   123.17   129.9   144.4 
152.29   154.9   157.30   160.8 

160.11  162.23  164.24  168.7 
177.4  179.27  181.27  182.30 
218.24   222.12   228.4   232.9 

232.12  265.23   266.6   266.19 
278.2   293.3   346.14   359.29 
360.12   366.18   392.17   411.20 
411.29 

anciently  158.3   204.9   380.24 

387.17 
ancients  97.24   166.12   367.2 

386.18  388.28   389.19 
and   #4097 

Andover  124.29 

anecdote  382.13 

anecdotes  411.24 

anemone  2  38.2 

Angas  160.7 

angels  394.10 

anger  25.16 

angle  4.4   199.10   314.21   333.27 

Angle-ish  53.20 

Angle-land  (New)  53.18 

angler  27.10   27.19   28.1   30.27 

angular  379 . 3 

animal  11.14   13.9   40.16   224.17 

407.17 
animals  152 . 32 
animated  136.26 
Anna  169.3 

annals  10.27   231.26   310.13 
annual  10.29   358.9 
annually  23.9   133.16   259.24 

404.30 
annuls  383.30 
another   #84 
another's  146.24   299.19   309.2 

389.29 
answer  13.21   274.25   282.2 

284.31   311.4   418.5   419.11 
answered  84.7   137.15   181.9 

215.4   216.31   217.7   217.9 

218.19  219.26   220.12 
answering  25.31   102.19   198.8 

205.8   406.26 
answers  284.11   383.12 
Antarctic  Continent  390.12 
ante-Chaucerian  395.17 
antediluvian  250.3   274.5 
antepenultimate  41.3 
anthologies  363.16 
anticipate  285.3 
anticipated  93.7   126.26   214.28 

218.30 
anticipates  402.29 
anticipating  113.10   372.4 
anticipation  131.22   262.22 

293.8   337.1 
anticipations  151.25 
antidote  272.15 
Antigone  139.1   139.3   139.14 

139.26   139.29 
antipodes  151.24 
antiquarians  360.10 
antiquated  176.30   360.7 
antique  62.26 


antiquities  264.3   265.23 
antiquity  97.23   141.14   159.26 
160.9   162.23   163.2   178.29 
229.26   264.14   266.13 

345.14  395.27 
ant-like  258.14 

ants  58.10   58.12   116.23 

165.5  165.15 
anvils  181.2 

anxiety  130.3   140.29   193.21 
anxious  11.23   40.6   110.26 

122.11  162.10   162.28   214.5 
360.29 

anxiously  79.21 

any   #171 

anything  31.27   55.6   75.8 

93.26   99.15   145.29   196.25 

211.30   272.3   290.7   311.16 

311.20   332.24   374.12 
anywhere  6.7   183.20   211.2 

213.28 
apart  271.14   302.6 
apartment  215.14   215.18   216.3 

219.3 
apexes  376.16 
Apollo  65.17   66.22   96.4 

104.7   211.20 
apologize  300.23 
apologizes  114.6 
apology  130.14   300.22   332.29 

398.16 
Apostles  75.4 
apothegm  58.17 
apotheosis  286.26 
apotheosized  65.16 
apparent  195.19   229.26   262.4 

300.29  307.26   333.6   383.24 
397.28   398.8 

apparently  63.31   198.11   373.8 

appealed  216.24 

appear  101.7   120.4   257.4 

299.23  310.1   331.15   339.3 
360.7   360.22   373.12   409.12 

appearance  91.6   216.6   235.31 

377.16  379.1 

appeared  20.15   33.10   62.30 

140.30  141.26   151.11 

204.15  204.30  213.16 
220.22  223.27  226.26 
228.28  247.15  252.20 
256.20   296.25   339.7   345.30 

347.17  372.16   391.20 
appears  3.7   8.10   83.23   91.10 

99.23   148.16   176.7   283.12 

288.12  337.11   341.17 

358.24  368.21   389.13 

395.18  398.28   402.30 

407.6  413.21 
appellation  33.6 
appendages  99.11 
appendix  93.8 

appetite  27.26   327.4   359.12 

379.20   394.9   407.17 
Appian  239.5 
apple  54.3   92.13   168.7 

204.26   246.22   342.13 

345.10   345.12   379.27 

380.6   380.22   331.24 

382.1   384.7   420.23 
apple-tree  52.5 
apples  123.8   282.17   381.22 
applicable  414.20 
application  387.6   387.31 
applications  220.8 


applied 


8 


atmospheric 


68.11 
218.5 
360.9 
389.1 

295.3 

398.22 
78.4   358.5 
129.20 

165.23 
4   249.26 
358.6   370.7 

149.3   213.22 

388.16   398.18 


applied  324.18   324.20   324.29 

348.30   387.9   388.7 
applies  350.9   350.12 
applying  185.16 
appointed  33.11   146.26 
appointment  33.14 
appreciable  133.2 
appreciate  36.16   59.10 

94.28   105.21   164.14 

283.29   294.10   294.31 

362.6   386.4   388.26 

395.15 
appreciated  149.2 
appreciation  73.13 
apprehension  58.4 
apprentices  129.6 
approach  17.24   59.25 

206.15  225.26   226 
256.24   327.16 
378.31 

approached  25.16 

239.29   256.14 
approaches  142.28 

418.10 
approaching  113.8 
appropriate  294.10   373.22 
April  14.16   123.21   277.29 
apt  55.1   111.20 
aptly  167.1 
aqueducts  194.11 
Arabia  130.11   210.5 
Arabian  395.4 
Arabian  Chronicle  162.5 
Arabian  Nights  281.14 
Arabians  60.9 
Arabic  60.4   395.4 
Arabs  60.5 

arbitrary  146.19   146.21 
arbitrating  21.21   21.25 
Arcadia  54.27 
Arcadian  256.21   257.20 
arch  163.1   250.25   407.28 
Arch  Fiend  135.21 
arches  100.24 
archipelago  393.10 
architect  63.6 
architecture  97.28   266.22 
ardent  103.10 
are   #642 
Arethuse  401.16 

Argonauts  61.1   258.18   346.15 
argument  145.13   231.14   264.22 
argumentative  265.15 
Argus  135.17 
Ariadne  399.17 
aright  93.25   212.3   290.17 
arise  117.2 
arises  265.18 
Aristeus  57.29 

Aristotle  133.4   159.5   386.8 
arithmetic  386.23 
Arjoon  146.14   146.14 
ark  122.20 
arm  380.10   401.26 
armed  36.3   36.4 
arming  186.3 
armor  28.12   29.2   35.24   35.28 

314.16  334.12 

arms  7.33  95.21  180.13 
252.19  257.14  334.13 
394.20 

army  95.20   106.4   154.8   168.9 
228.23   305.9   414.15 

arose  42.4   219.11   342.28 


201.3 
370.2 


around  6.1   13.3 

157.5   160.15 

198.5   202.21 

318.16   338.26 

347.20   348.6   356.19 

365.1   376.5   388.4 
arousing  90.8 
a-row  175.4 
arranged  180.2 
array  18.20 
arrears  389.13 
arrive  99.3   389.14 
arrived  153.8   158.29 

270.31   326.26 
arrivers  253.30 
arrives  328.1 
arrow  20.28   5  3.13 
arrowhead  18.12   15  3.2 
arrowheads  84.30   153.4 

207.25   209.18 
arrows  85.8   345.26 
art  13.22   13.22 


52.3   89.22 
175.10   197.24 
217.4   255.3 

338.29   339.24 
357.5 


165.5 


153.3 
176.26 


22.12   31.26 
41.1   43.16   47.26   48.16 
48.21   100.27   111.19   129.20 
228.4   266.21   272.21 
337.10   337.12   337.13 
339.26   339.26   339.28 
340.8   340.9   349.9 

400.28   402.27 


164.4 
337.10 
339.10 
340.2 

386.8  392.29 
artery  9.31 
Arthur's  163.19 
article  79.19 
articles  129.3 
articulate  165.13 
artificial  44.9 

218.9  259.27 
artillery  245.3 
Artisan  350.11 
artisans  181 . 1 
artist  333.9   337.11 


54.21 
379.19 

334.14 


212.18 
399.30 


343.26 


350.5   350.9   365.28   399.27 
artistic  349.5 
arts  57.6   57.7   81.19   85.4 

98.1   129.8   165.5   165.14 

268.7  368.22   388.13 
as   #1107 

ascend  31.15   189.27 

ascended  192.24   200.13   . 

ascending  190.10   221.13 

ascends  204.2  3 

ascent  192.29 

ashamed  195.16   264.13   371.3 

ashes  301.28   342.15 

Asia  96.12   141.25   143.13 

253.27   396.12 
Asia  Minor  97.9 
Asiatic  140.29 
Asiatics  130.6 
aside  81.4   93.29   121.6   153.12 

219.20   239.25   300.31   362.1 

362.3 
ask.  49.24   77.23   131.28   220.11 

284.9  285.10   289.18   295.29 
asked  84.5   131.31   151.23 

215.25   215.30   216.17   216.29 

217.17   248.2   308.1   324.28 

325.29   385.26 
asking  34.26 
asks  139.27   286.25   289.13 

331.6 
asleep  180.24   180.28   181.3 

188.8  216.9   219.4   219.6 

354.10  355.14 
a-soak  247.15 


24.28 
307.21 


183.3   238.14 


135.13 
358.19 


aspect  30.30   33.15   53.24 

53.31   99.2   179.23   195.14 

246.21   246.27   340.20 

393.21   402.23 
aspects  56.13 
aspirant  35.5 
aspiration  291.14   297.6 
aspirations  182.29   203.30 

281.4 
aspire  405.15   414.18 
aspired  275.19 
aspires  142.29 
Assabet  River  4.3 
assail  419.4 
assault  146.10   253.21 
assembled  345.8   397.17 
assert  69.10 
asserted  135.10 
assertion  69.7   307.25 
assertions  389.2 
asserts  3.8   136.6   153.20 

179.27   366.21 
assiduously  24.27 
assign  288.15 

assigned  59.18   125.2   162.3 
assigns  142 . 30 
assist  165.17   282.26   3 
assistance  115.3   298.7 
assisted  312.1 
associate  10.17 

296.22 
associated  81.22 

149.19   302.6 
associates  235.21 
association  77.12 
associations  78.15   372.; 
assume  57.1   60.31   163.= 
assumes  340.4 
assuming  372.12 
assurance  250.11   296.24 

339.14  339.23   364.13 
assure  70.16 
assured  133.13   157.20 

184.10  332.23 
asteroid  59.15 
a-sters  377.12   377. 

404.22 
astonished  257.17 
astonishing  162.1 
astonishment  313.2 
Astoria  City  323.16 
Astraea  59.15 
astronomer  231.7   2 

413.12 
astronomers  59.13   412.2 
astronomical  413.15 
astronomy  97.26   239.12 
asylum  79.31   419.3 
at   #529 
ate  131.18 
Atheists  159.4 
Athenian  266.8 
Athenians  265.9   265.13 
Athens  54.26   264.29   346.18 
athwart  123.12 
Atlantic  47.29   148.12   191.4 

273.11  327.2 

atmosphere  27.31   61.24   77.20 
118.10   120.7   123.16   161.10 
198.4   202.10   277.30   308.23 
341.10   341.21   353.6   373.17 

379.15  400.15   416.23 
atmospheres  385.2 
atmospheric  161.6   161.11 


310.4 


181.8 


18 

377 

27 

311.14 
209.9 
326.27 

384. 

16 

39.9   412.28 

411.24 


atomists 


9 


bark 


atomists  159.4 

atoms  10.25 

atone  300.26 

atoned  317.8 

atonement  315.21 

attached  25.2   79.28   135.25 

151.8  369.2   411.30 
attaches  267.4 

attain  11.15   109.11   296.9 

351.12  419.29 

attained  143.6   337.3   395.1 

attains  331.26 

attempt  195.20   273.9   342.23 

409.24 
attempting  27.4 
attend  23.5   134.7   197.22 

238.4   386.27 
attended  99.21 
attending  215.2 

attention  108.20   287.11   388.17 
attenuated  341.20 
Attic  319.23 
attitude  159.6 
attract  294.23 
attracted  3.4   27.2   44.6   107.18 

134.9  287.7   369.1   386.6 
388.29 

attraction  37.11   289.19   385.2 
attractive  106.21   154.9   204.17 

239.5 
attracts  93.19   159.8   339.19 
attributes  65.10 
attune  409.1 
Aubrey  112.2 
audible  418.12 
audience  73.31   131.31   370.15 

419.7 
auditory  418.22 
auger  338.29 
august  359.17 
August  12.1   21.19 
aura  364.21 
Aurora  61.21   199.1 
auroral  42.7   61.24 
austerity  159.14 
Australian  132.7 
author  9.19   107.7   110.5   112.16 

112.20   162.26   231.7   327.16 

348.28   396.29   398.14   400.22 

401.10  402.10 
authorities  175.13 
authority  3.16   53.4   65.31 

70.26   71.7   93.1   315.13 

316.2   389.20   396.23 
authors  100.3   105.27   239.1 
author's  79.9   100.30   419.27 
autobiography  163.24   348.27 

349.4   349.17 
autochthones  394.16 
autumn  245.30   344.26   356.6 

356.13  356.14   356.17   359.24 
371.30   385.25   403.14   403.19 

autumnal  357.24   358.16   377.11 

392.1   415.18 
avail  36.7   99.23   285.26   366.23 
availed  13.25   48.13 
avails  295.13   310.28 
avatar  141.30 
average  30.18   133.14 
averaging  26.30 
avoid  115.26   182.9   202.25 

292.9   309.11   323.27 
avoided  49.10 
awaiting  35.28 


awake  39.15   119.24   122.6 

138.25  180.24  183.26  200.28 
219.12  310.15  314.20  315.29 
316.4   356.1   389.11 

awaked  141.29 

awaken  78.14   157.4 

awakened  180.26   336.11   340.18 
372.4 

awakening  185.16   256.25 

awakes  17.19 

awarded  348.19 

aware  39.27   275.14   295.22 
361.29 

away  6.9   8.5   17.22   17.25   20.1 
20.27   24.28   27.14   31.19 
36.12   45.12   53.15   78.13 
88.26   105.23   109.5   116.5 

116.11  117.3   119.20   128.11 

129.22  131.3   131.4   167.8 

169.25  183.26  189.21  198.22 
206.6   209.17   224.19   225.24 

226.12  237.13   238.19   249.17 

249.23  253.31   257.5   259.19 

264.8  267.3   300.28   307.20 
308.31   310.1   310.12   314.10 

323.26  326.3   338.18   344.22 
355.14   357.8   358.14   392.22 

402.18  407.6 
awe  190.11 

awhile  180.13   211.27   247.16 

381.12 
awkward  419.2 
awkwardness  332.27 
awoke  121.2   315.11   317.1 

342.29  354.20   356.13 
axe  109.5   110.10   111.28 
axes  203.14   244.34 

ay  49.26   129.24   181.18   198.27 

414.8 
azure  106.21 
Babboosuck  Brook  232.2 
babe  160.9 
babes  370.28 
Babylon  265.28   346.14 
Babylonians  94.10 
Babylonish  51.5 
Bacchantes  360.4 
Bacchus  58.18 
bachelors  131.9 
back  20.14   30.13   54.14   78.25 

86.31   88.20   103.13   110.19 

117.19  117.21   133.23   138.12 

151.9  189.17   194.18   200.16 

203.30  208.12   215.30   221.21 

222.18  225.20   226.2   252.3 

263.19  324.20   325.4   332.7 

345.24  385.23   397.4   407.14 
backbone  402.8 

backed  87.17   227.17 

background  45.22   179.29   418.30 

backs  43.2   252.28   282.5   313.1 

417.19 
backside  162.25 
backward  36.1 
backwards  191.14   222.16 
backwater  127.4 
bad  212.21   328.21   331.14 
bade  20.6   21.7 
bag  33.3   343.11 
Bagdat  155.5 
baggage  312.28 
Baiae  54.26 
bail  271.23 
bailments  22.2 


bait  21.4   24.7   27.26   27.27 
28.26   30.21 

baits  30.28 

Baker's  (River)  87.7 

Baker's  River  268.28 

balance  13.18 

balanced  287.28   299.22   309.22 
399.25 

balances  128.15   288.2 

bald  92.27 

balked  419.11 

ball  125.25   125.29   402.25 

ballad  174.29 

ballast  335.13 

balls  18.6   43.26   126.12 

Ball's  Hill  19.26   37.23   43.7 

balm  305.1   418.28 

band  49.5 

bandages  128.21 

bands  345.5 

bane  272.15 

banian    158.30 

banished  246.9   393.26 

bank  12.14   18.24   19.8   19.25 
29.7   43.18   43.24   116.3 
119.1   119.14   152.15   152.25 
165.21   165.29   168.19 
169.15   180.2   181.3   207.12 

207.24  208.27   212.27   225.7 

226.14  227.16   227.31   228.14 
238.3   244.32   245.15   247.11 
248.17   251.19   252.31   256.16 
269.3   269.12   273.29   308.3 

309.25  314.21   318.18   336.2 

336.9  337.20   343.20   343.31 
344.8   344.15   353.25   353.29 

354.25  357.5   374.7   377.10 
381.13   382.1 

bankrupt  275.27 

banks  3.7  3.11  4.9  10.10 
11.6  11.16  17.28  18.27 
27.12  28.13  38.4  87.17 
88.19      88.26      88.28      90.27 

127.17  167.24      202.29      203.5 

203.10  203.29      204.14      205.4 
210.8      228.25      232.7      234.2 

235.12  256.14      257.25 

260.13  264.6      271.20      275.1 

341.26  345.26      376.28      380.4 
380.21      416.11 

banner    19.11 

Banquet  of  Xenophon  319.21 

bar  122.17 

barbarian  246.27 

barbarism  272.21 

barbarous  237.9 

barber  379.30 

bard  94.25   366.21   368.8 

368.15  369.1   392.11   392.17 
392.20 

bardic  392.14 

bards  59.24   239.13   368.6 

369.4 
bare  52.12   156.25   158.4   222.9 

226.10   258.4   265.28   291.21 

314.15   342.8   403.21 
bareheaded  211.19 
barely  113.5   213.25   224.18 
bareness  339.17 
bargain  326.5   335.17 
bark  20.25   22.11   40.5   43.25 

166.7   166.13   228.18   238.8 

272.6   319.13   324.4   338.17 

344.18  367.30   380.14 


bark  (cont.) 


10 


besides 


bark  (cont.)  381.27   402.5   411.15 

barking  40.4   205.2 

barks  254.18 

barns  5.10   129.15   130.30   254.30 

barometer  388.9 

barracks  256.26 

barrel  174.7   174.11   174.15 

282.17 
barrels  64.21   74.1 
barren  271.5   327.10 
barrier  116.21 
barriers  115.31 
base  28.16   86.2   99.12   197.8 

197.25  294.12   322.9   376.4 
bases  376.14 

Bashpish  259.30 

basin  35.15   203.17   261.22 

basins  263.6 

basis  298.4 

bask  66.29 

basket  27.10   196.23 

baskets  53.9   166.13   166.19 

basking  78.22 

bass  91.4   166.3   358.21 

bast  166.8 

bath  305.1 

bathe  153.12   340.16 

bathed  223.7 

bathing  213.1 

bats  38.31 

battalion  49.3 

battered  162.30 

battle  30.11   84.27   162.16 

162.17   268.30   268.31   334.5 

370.8   392.16 
battleground  14.13 
battlements  407.5 
battles  163.19   176.21   394.20 

394.22 
Battus  258.17 
Baxter's  82.13 
bay  40.21   191.2   223.8   253.17 

254.28 
baying  40.28   180.14 
bays  224.22 
be   #515 
beach  5.29   86.1   210.17   210.23 

211.7   381.20 
beach-birds  211.15 
beach  plum  118. 31 
beaches  87.18 
beam  13.13   18.28   218.24 
beams  301.1 
beans  256.17 
bear  8.5   11.27   35.23   49.14 

52.13   64.22   86.4   129.28 

131.7   136.4   216.25   280.30 

291.1   299.25   304.12   313.2 

343.26  345.1   366.19   403.15 
beard  65.23 

bearing  11.11   36.15   89.28 

192.25   192.28   334.6   400.16 
bears  8.18   65.31   94.6   94.7 

101.19   101.21   160.11   217.9 

251.23   344.3   404.30 
bear-skins  85.7 
beast  76.35   150.18 
beasts  162.17   363.12   367.30 
beat  181.1   181.8 
beaten  103.11   113.2   249.10 

383.17   396.2 
beating  5.30   78.9   162.18   181.4 

252.25 
beats  183.27   275.5 
beauties  362.31 


beautiful  26.7   48.15   48.20 
58.16   58.29   152.19   179.23 
205.20   259.1   301.3   386.20 
399.7 

beautifully  390.17 

beautify  301.15 

beauty  17.29   40.31   54.21   58.24 
59.10   68.11   104.9   107.18 
109.23   111.19   138.6   142.8 

158.8  161.10   183.4   185.30 

239.20  239.23   239.28   322.10 

338.14  338.26   339.22   362.28 
363.25   373.18   386.5   400.15 
401.31   403.1   403.10   405.4 
406.13   408.18 

beaver  52.12   53.13   89.22   90.17 

122.11   333.21   344.6 
beaver-dams  86.28 
Beaver  River  92.28 
becalmed  130.4 
became  58.21   165.29   203.9 

334.28 
because  50.23   55.18   72.14   75.8 

76.36   77.13   77.24   77.25 

79.23   98.30   105.15   107.15 

107.23  136.25   138.7   158.7 

163.9  183.10   189.30   273.7 

278.1  285.20  299.21  311.18 
315.11   325.1   341.9   341.10 

350.21  353.18   354.18   364.9 

366.24  386.13   394.7   402.29 
become  21.11   25.4   59.3   86.26 

182.6   198.20   212.16   248.4 

365.25  408.10 

becomes  55.7   61.29   135.25 

202.15  236.27  272.27  292.7 
293.17  330.28  334.9  375.28 
404.2 

becoming  59.4   331.29 

bed  10.12   13.6   60.2   70.21 

119.6  216.17   219.5   248.16 

261.29  263.11  320.5  353.28 
356.12 

Bedford  4.5   37.27   53.17   62.3 
247.28   248.17   250.31   251.4 

251.7  251.20   252.1 
beds  35.7   339.17 
beehives  256.20 

been  #161 

bees  127.18   230.2   360.13 

befallen  77.5 

befits  14.2 

before  #120 

began  12.12   38.2   81.19   128.21 

141.30  152.26   162.4   179.9 

189.26  192.27   193.27   198.31 

209.2  209.3   209.11   219.20 
220.20   263.17   276.1   307.18 

357.2  358.7 

begin  3.3   131.17   228.8   275.27 

282.3  288.26   290.24   319.30 

333.22  358.11   362.19   372.29 
beginning  163.3   265.30   293.18 

353.9   416.19   420.8 
begins  295.11   326.3 
begun  118.20   122.9   236.13 

293.22 
behave  132.15   132.16 
behaved  288.19 
behavior  275.12   275.20   281.10 

287.1   289.7   300.19   387.5 

398.6   409.23 
beheld  249.11   254.4 
behind  16.21   19.17   26.14   34.26 

49.12   56.27   105.24   111.8 


behind  (cont.)  116.13   117.20 
123.16   124.29   151.20   153.20 

156.26  159.24   162.30   186.4 

188.15  205.14   206.17   213.23 

214.13  216.3   226.5   245.19 

252.27  255.12  266.15  293.11 
319.25   319.27   343.21   343.25 

344.16  353.30  376.25  379.27 
385.29  403.20  404.28  409.16 
416.15   417.2 

behold  14.3   38.17   45.23   48.31 
56.16   88.8   89.21   147.1 
160.10   180.4   199.8   239.25 
267.5   309.31   322.12   340.14 
408.18 

beholder  164.19   202.4   390.22 

beholding  112.28   158.5   345.29 

behoof  36.12 

being   #63 

believe  8.4   71.26   238.27 

257.18   269.14   273.7   294.7 
310.6 

believed  154.17   191.20   267.26 
343.9   366.29   382.25 

believes  67.4   67.5   250.1 

Belknap  91.18   127.26   189.1 

bell  49.25   78.13 

Bellows  189.30 

Bellows  Falls  91.16   261.17 

bells  49.28   85.14 

belong  99.10   156.23   231.2 
329.25 

belonged  265.9   271.28   308.25 
420.4 

belonging  378.30 

belongs  21.12   156.28   290.16 
419.24 

below  12.20   36.14   44.15   44.17 
63.5   116.20   118.18   160.29 
167.21   177.5   178.6   195.9 
197.15   206.30   227.26   269.23 

280.14  322.20   323.28   351.9 
373.8 

Belphoebe  214.17 

belt  325.4 

benches  21.19 

bend  8.8   16.22   37.29   126.25 

245.23  273.18   335.27   385.16 
bending  11.19   76.36   361.24 

384.5   384.29 
bends  361.28 
beneath  28.10   198.5   198.20 

339.24  347.24 
benefactress  117.11 
beneficence  309.1 
beneficent  300.25 
benefit  417.31 
benefited  251.14 
benefits  58.1 
benignant  199.6 
Benjamin  169. 3 

Ben  Jonson  108.12 

Bennington  268.31 

bent  55.8   215.8   384.18 

bepastured  334.24 

beaueathed  377.22 

berries  19.28   55.29   55.31 

123.8   166.6   219.21   414.7 
Berwick  125.28   126.13 
beset  120.3 
beside  25.5   62.26   68.13 

93.7   101.18   105.29   149.23 

193.17  226.30   236.5   317.9 

383.25  407.1 

besides  25.31   110.28   206.6 


besides  (cont. 


11 


bolt 


besides  (cont.)  342.21   381.19 
best  13.18   49.31   72.10   72.20 
74.15   81.9   93.5   93.6   98.21 
106.30   107.30   108.20   110.26 
115.19   125.30   132.22   133.23 

140.27  142.12   159.30   175.13 
178.21   194.31   195.21   204.28 

240.7  284.27   284.28   291.4 

321.28  321.30   325.23   327.8 
328.5   328.14   328.21   329.12 

329.27  329.28   331.25   332.19 

358.25  360.26   362.17   385.5 
386.14   395.15   400.20 

bestow  328.26 
betake  65.8   330.18 
betel  130.15 
betimes  217.15 

betray  87.14   343.25   407.26 
betrayed  256.5 
betrays  148.22   272.25 
better  11.23   13.8   36.24   72.22 
73.8   73.9   79.7   79.14   99.1 

108.1  109.13   111.25   111.29 

111.30  116.17   129.25   132.18 
135.12   135.15   137.1   146.24 

148.26  153.16   216.19   223.7 
228.25   255.15   261.13   288.28 

291.2  296.30   299.27   301.23 
302.2   332.11   332.24   334.15 

360.8  389.1   399.20   405.27 

405.28  406.9   420.4 
between   #94 
betwixt  74.28 

beware  126.17   288.22 
beyond   20.22   49.30   141.6 
160.5   198.26   235.32   245.2 

254.31  255.5   303.29   328.22 
363.7   372.24   375.1   412.16 

Bhagvat-Geeta  140.17   142.15 

148.1   149.24   153.31 
bias  296.17 
Bible  82.13   150.12 
bibles  72.24 
Bibles  23.3   99.24 
biblical  99.31 
bickering  327.28 
bid  290.1   300.11 
bidder  254.1 
bids  416.22 
big  153.6 
bigoted  67.30 
bigotry  73.12 
Bilberry  319.18 
bill  54.11 
Billerica  4.6   32.7   32.21   38.8 

43.8   49.13   49.18   51.29 

53.17   53.22   61.29   62.3 

119.23   391.20 
Billerica  dam  36.7 
Billerica  Falls  62.18 
Billericay  49.20 
billows  4.17   86.1   105.19 
bills  5.9   250.23 
bind  315.3 

binding  99.23   363.18 
binds  294.6 
biographical  387.13 
biographies  101.5 
biography  60.12   60.24   98.3 

163.23   368.17 
birch  20.25   44.30   251.26 

344.1   344.17 
birchen  21.16   266.15 
birches  6.2   209.5   209.13 
bird  13.12   13.16   167.19 


bird  (cont.)  236.8   249.26 

311.22   317.8   328.10   362.14 

birds  25.5   28.11   44.15   48.17 
121.2   167.15   188.7   194.16 

221.5  236.3   236.27   246.4 

250.6  250.21   274.5   303.14 
320.10   339.1   339.3   344.8 

362.7  396.1 

birth  86.26   99.21   102.12 

141.4  146.26   149.22 
372.26   389.22 

birthright  98.16 

Biscuit  Brook  380.18 

bishop  67.30 

bit  28.28   209.7   209.8 

bite  27.7   209.11 

bites  27.25   30.3 

biting  27.6   30.27 

bittern  14.10   17.22   188.7 

249.18   255.13   319.30 
bittersweet  272.5 
black  6.14   192.1 
blackbirds  417.3 
blackness  91.1 
Black  Prince  396.14 
blacksmith's  50.27 
blade  38.1   47.25 
blades  236.22 

blame  118.1   135.12   315.7 
blameless  67.1 
blameworthy  67.1 
Blanche  the  Duchesse  399.18 
blanket  119.5   196.10   196.21 
blankets  56.22 
blasphemers  67.5 
blasphemy  67.7 

blast  187.20   272.19   384.18 
blasts  392.5 

blaze  55.20   119.9   164.7 
blazing  39.30 
bleak  6.12   374.9 
bleared  218.25 
bleating  359.2 
bleeding  342.1 
bleeds  101.20 
bless  69.21   315.14 
blessing  119.16   238.4 
blew  223.30   335.28   356.3 

361.19 
blind  282.29   299.32   300.2 

300.5  368.5   371.10   408.11 
blithe  200.17   395.28 
blithely  328.4 

block  266.24 

blocks  110.20 

blood  61.14   67.13   94.15 

157.25  185.31   275.3   275.4 
280.14   292.25   343.16   364.11 

381.26  386.12 
bloodthirsty  30.9 
bloody  30.13   123.29 
bloom  133.15   158.27 
bloomed  396.1   400.10 
blooming  107.15   416.11 
blooms  379.7 

blossom  18.15   19.25   45.19 

52.5   293.11 
blossoming  379.5 
blossomless  291.21 
blossoms  18.11   19.9   91.7   94.17 

238.2   377.13   377.26   379.2 

379.7 
blow  50.25   104.12   117.25 

152.26   209.3   314.16   351.19 

362.21   391.6 


blowing  5.16   104.14   209.17 

209.26  341.15 

blown  70.20   152.28   208.28 

210.10  228.24   314.12   407.23 
blows  4.16   188.3   319.18 

blue  12.20   20.4   161.16 

169.28  173.14   173.26 

271.11  383.7 
bluebird's  266.10 
blue-curls  377.12 
blue-eyed  368.28 
blue-joint  4.30 
blue-winged  6.13 
bluffs  210.28 
blundering  30.1 
blunt  351.13 

board  196.9   196.14   273.22 

boarded  253.18 

boards  70.20   196.13 

boast  138.9 

boat    12.14      12.17      13.9      13.18 
13.24      17.27      38.8      39.19 
45.28      47.23      49.9      62.22 
81.18      116.1      116.7      119.3 
122.1      130.9      150.27      179.31 

188.9  202.24   205.25   213.16 

221.15  222.17   225.22   225.28 
225.31   226.2   228.14   249.2 
249.4   249.8   252.10   261.4 

273.24  274.12   274.18   274.26 
308.3   309.6   309.9   309.18 

318.16  322.20   335.22   337.21 

353.30  356.16   382.16   383.2 
384.15   420.17 

boatable  273.16 

boat-building  228.3 

boated  251.5 

boating  225.8   225.16   225.16 

boatman  204.2   222.16   225.21 

273.20 
boatman's  165.21 
boatmen  151.10   203.13   204.18 

220.22   257.31   273.25   307.21 

318.12  336.6   384.16 
boats  89.4   220.20   222.30 

256.10  382.27 
boat-song  247.17 
boatswain  77.19 
bobbing  117.28 
Boccaccio  396.11 
boded  318.6 

bodies  12.4   78.1   121.5   136.29 

174.27  177.19   236.30   237.10 

237.25  280.13   283.5   310.23 

401.31  413.28 
bodiless  238.22 
bodily  374.14   403.12 

body  29.2   59.12   65.23   109.9 
125.25   125.29   139.4   140.10 
177.21   178.1   179.3   250.25 

250.29  273.10   273.12   291.24 
310.25   310.26   310.27   328.24 

340.7  362.16   365.5   375.31 

381.8  381.9   386.29   390.9 
419.25 

bog  181.24 

boggy  3  34.14 

boil  235.14   325.10 

boiled  38.13   173.29   180.6 

237.13  355.9 
boisterous  119.25   359.13 
Bokhara  131.23   131.29 
bold  176.23   220.11   319.28 
boldly  304.10 

bolt  63.19 


bond 


12 


broiled 


bond  294.5 
bonds  147.8 

bone  177.29   302.4   302.4   384.15 
bones  53.11   55.8   58.30   110.15 
152.32   162.17   162.22   176.11 

210.30  251.24   251.28   367.15 
bonnet  377.18 

bonnets  247.12 

book  27.24   60.9   66.27   72.3 
72.7   72.14   72.15   73.15 
74.18   75.2   80.24   93.4   93.21 
100.4   100.25   105.25   111.17 
112.14   112.18   112.19   112.24 

142.17  148.1   150.12   153.22 

153.24  155.1   155.9   155.13 

155.26  196.25   327.6   348.29 
419.22   420.5 

bookmaker  419.29 

books  55.1   73.9   78.18   93.6 
97.6   98.7   98.21   99.3   99.8 
99.9   99.18   99.24   100.8 

100.10  101.3  101.4  101.14 
105.22   111.14   142.25   150.13 

153.18  153.28   154.9   156.23 
189.18   230.17   285.19   287.16 
348.13   388.24   394.26   402.17 
419.26 

bookshop  238.15 

boom  319.30 

boomed  260.6 

boots'6.11   229.28 

border  12.20   167.22   179.20 

bordered  20.22   43.12   353.31 

borders  8.15   63.3   407.22 

bore  136.2   214.18   381.24   420.24 

Boreas  257.16 

boring  323.29 

borings  338.28 

born  50.24   66.15   85.16   88.8 

104.25  169.1  170.8  213.20 
268.25  326.16  337.5  348.6 
411.16 

borne  39.31 

borrowed  2  34.4 

borrowing  346.12 

bosom  10.11   11.26   44.19   81.24 

85.18   87.2   112.29   158.12 

205.10 
bosoms  11.12 
boss  373.7 

Boston  56.16   90.5   194.26   210.31 
botanists  411.14 
botany  303.17 
both  8.16   14.4   44.12   92.11 

108.22   124.26   163.1   173.28 

206.31  272.18   273.11   302.13 

329.11  342.3  361.1  386.23 
401.1 

Botta  107.23   130.17 

bottle  34.14 

bottom  11.19   20.21   25.2   25.29 
26.12   27.25   31.8   34.2   47.33 
61.30   85.2   90.28   150.26 

150.27  156.3   170.6   180.29 
210.2   213.26   218.11   228.7 
246.30   250.24   257.7   262.12 
263.30   309.11   314.30   342.1 
413.30 

bottomless  167.27   181.24   256.30 

353.17 
bottoms  27.8   30.10   31.21 

409.26 
bough  107.9 
boughs  179.15   206.20   339.31 

392.4   409.20 


bought  208.7   335.12   373.24 

bound  5.13   5.14   29.23   93.4 
99.9   122.30   123.1   248.1 
273.18   309.10   393.10   416.31 

boundaries  323.17 

bounded  43.16   161.11   173.15 

374.25  384.13 
bounding  177.3 
boundless  367.15 
bounds  253.6 
bounty  168.18 
bow  317.6 

bowels  163.25   353.12 

bower  308.15 

bow-gunner  117.25 

bowl  24.26   292.1 

bows  85.7   202.24   338.20   345.25 

box  290.4 

boy    215.24      307.31       308.5      308.7 

341.26  342.5  342.22  342.24 
342.29  342.31  343.1  343.15 
349.7      349.8      349.15      417.14 

boys  168.24 

braced  318.2 

bracing  229.29 

brackets  217.4 

Braddock  231.25 

Bradford  380.2 

Brahm  141.21   141.27   141.28 

141.28 
Brahma  141.5   154.20   346.15 
Brahman  141.30   146.9 
Brahmans  143.4   159.1   159.14 
Brahman's  146.20 
Brahmapootra  158.15 
Brahminical  377.29 

brain  69.4   136.11   160.7   263.18 
brains  105.23   193.12   318.5 

34  2.13   34  5.9 
brake  43.20 
brakes  14.11 
branch  8.6 
branches  44.4   92.12   127.3 

235.29   381.28   381.31 
brand  116.23 
brandy  100.8 
brass  271.23 
brave  36.10   121.2   124.11 

304.23   405.20   420.8 
bravely  79.21   176.16   250.9 
bravery  334.20 
brawny  211.18   212.10 
brazen  18.17   266.1   327.11 
bread  38.12   131.17   136.19 

189.16   220.4   263.29   308.8 

325.11   325.16   354.8   365.12 

420.14 
bread-fruit  224.10 
breadth  4.12   12.19   13.13   20.15 

202.1  202.17   206.7   216.25 

319.27  396.9 

break  122.23   189.10   209.7 

211.11   246.11   260.3   260.22 

276.2  381.28  383.27  392.27 
419.30 

breakfast  122.4   218.22   225.27 
breaking  17.28   56.1   78.14 

97.3   114.8   209.26 
breaks  79.30   293.13   336.30 

403.2 
bream  17.21   24.16   26.3   26.16 

63.5 
breams  25.10 
breast  331.1 
breasts  40.22   82.2   288.1 


breath  111.6   150.22   289.31 
320.7   358.11   359.27   364.26 

365.12  400.18   405.11 
breathe  394.13   396.5   406.21 
breathed  102.8   302.11   334.25 

354.22  363.9 
breathes  310.30 

breathing  39.14   39.15   94.20 

106.29   216.13   346.19 
breathing-place  86.30 
bred  169.1   349.29 
breedeth  209.10 
breeze  37.24   190.27   274.2 

274.4  274.19   307.19   337.17 

362.14  384.14   384.30   385.3 
breezed  222.8 

breezy  374.22 

Brenner  351.22 

Brenton  204.9 

Brenton's  Farm  204.8 

brethren  27.2   49.5 

Briareus  135.16 

bribe  299.26   333.14 

bribed  23.27   69.20 

bricks  221.19   221.20   223.23 

225.11  251.5   251.8   251.10 

251.13  251.17 
bride  399.10 

bridge  8.5  37.26  63.10  63.28 
169.16   169.18   190.10   228.15 

bridged  52.10   312.27 

bridges  49.9 

brief  33.22   368.15 

briefly  215.25 

bright  18.31  24.4  28.9  35.28 
95.1   118.16   151.25   164.1 

188.15  250.4   250.21   254.29 

257.2  278.6   341.16   392.1 

402.5  411.30   413.23   418.6 
bright-blue  18.20 
brightenings  319.1 

brighter  17.30   118.9   341.8 
416.17 

brightest  97.7   112.25   318.21 

brightness  383.13 

brigs  254.18 

brilliant  26.8 

brim  112.1   261.24 

brims  262.3 

bring  98.16   131.6   221.21 

249.13   258.8   359.22   387.4 

bringing  141.27   259.18   307.30 

brings  45.2   183.20 

brink  18.3   198.16   212.30 
381.12 

brisk  385.8 

briskly  5.22 

bristling  52.18 

Bristol  402.10 

British  176.28   390.24 

broad  8.12   14.10   16.25   20.20 
20.22   37.21   43.9   78.12 
81.24   82.5   87.15   88.16 
160.13   166.5   169.26   188.10 
200.31   211.6   221.18   223.17 
245.20   245.25   274.3   318.13 

322.3  330.18   346.2   346.4 

353.23  360.18   363.26 

384.12  392.31   397.23 
broadcast  400.8 

broader  62.1   205.6   213.8 

340.5 
broadsides  222.4 
broil  236.9 
broiled  236.4 


broke 


13 


captain 


broke  39.24   86.29   122.14 

127.2   209.2   268.14   359.15 
broken  45.24   152.25   153.7 

219.15   304.15   311.28   326.10 

402.31 
bronze  376.10 
brooding  24.27 
brook  29.28   116.19   168.20 

190.9   210.2   246.28   309.8 

314.12  314.21   325.9   325.12 
382.17 

brooks  5.10   30.24   31.29 

230.2   376.27 
broth  292.1 
brother  29.20   120.10   139.4 

141.31   231.12   257.11   291.25 

302.5 
brothers  12.2   284.19 
brought  52.4   56.30   139.26 

157.30   196.6   246.25   251.12 

254.13  259.17   348.7   364.28 
brown  22.10   26.13   128.4   251.25 
brown-coated  22.3 

brownstone  262.23 

brows  3  34.22 

Bruce  396.13 

brushed  182.24 

brushing    39.17 

brutal  136.16 

bubble  159.12   420.11 

bubbles  20.29   85.29   401.12 

418.19 
bucket  325.28 
buckler  186.2 
bucklers  166.15 
bud  101.13 

Buddha  68.8   68.13   68.15 
buds  6.3   110.31   245.29   285.28 
buffalo  56.2   119.4 
buffaloes  180.12   249.1   335.10 

3  54.3 
buffalo-skin  13.6 
buffet  74.26 
buffoon  3  3  3.13 
bug  336.29 
bugle  40.19 

build  228.14   258.13   324.4 
building  51.23   53.7   77.13 

196.9   197.4   258.4   346.19 
buildings  197.6 
built  13.7   52.1   89.7   129.15 

153.2   251.17   266.5   353.14 

380.3 
bullets  209.18 
bullying  30.9 
bulrushes  12.15   20.23   43.15 

48.23   78.21   420.18 
bunch  409.28 
bundle  253.29 
bundles  237.11 
bungle  3  3  3.2 
bungler  419.1 
bungling  301.23 
Bunker  Hill  85.7   268.31 
buoy  13.27   117.31   212.2 
buoyancy  141.7   220.29   223.26 

318.21 
buoyant  113.9   205.24 
buoyantly  48.10   319.26 
buoyed  44.5 
bur  361.11 
burden  89.1 

burdock  52.18   163.6   272.6 
burial  140.10 
buried  53.10   67.25   112.10 


buried  (cont.)  136.30   174.28 
175.12   178.20   207.31   208.16 
209.11   210.16   295.8   380.28 

buries  291.26 

burn  70.17   195.13 

burned  188.4   344.19 

burning  6.28   67.31   116.23 

burns  69.18 

Burns  401.16 

burnt  152.30   153.1 

burr  105.23 

burrow  211.5 

burs  415.22 

burst  418.20 

bursting  203.16   237.30 

bursts  413.15 

bushes  38.11   152.24   177.1 
208.30   271.24 

bushy  320.6 

busiest  117.12 

busily  81.19   191.30 

business  30.4   106.1   113.3 

122.10  176.8   194.31   230.2 
bustle  119.1   126.29   216.10 

235.20   355.10 
busy  89.22   122.10   222.11 

230.1   281.9 
busy-ness  385.30 
but   #738 

butter  131.4   257.8 
button-bush  18.6   43.26 
buttonwoods  20.2   153.12   358.10 
buy  131.6   224.20   311.9   325.3 

325.11  325.15   335.17   374.1 
buying  189.16 

buys  53.8   53.9 

buzzed  197.19 

by   #548 

bylaw  263.31 

cabin  230.12   253.25 

cabinet  156.7 

cabins  86.5   245.31 

cable  257.15 

cackle  336.25 

cackling  130.30 

cactus  305.3 

cairn  368.15 

calamint  272.6 

calculate  134.10 

calculated  412.29 

calculating  53.2 

calculations  412.18 

Caleb  Harriman's  185.11 

Calidas  183.14 

call  53.20   58.6   59.14   67.21 
99.8   109.29   131.16   160.24 
160.29   161.1   238.11   290.14 
290.17   292.30   310.15   333.7 
366.23   411.28   412.11   412.11 

called  4.1   8.9   27.18   29.31 
43.4   66.8   67.31   91.9   91.9 
109.23   113.15   116.2   123.31 
131.1   136.15   136.25   146.27 
150.8   161.2   163.8   166.3 
166.14   182.23   189.30   191.10 
192.11   194.30   204.7   206.14 
245.5   245.6   251.1   273.6 
274.14   284.18   284.24   307.21 

318.11  374.7   380.23   386.29 

392.12  400.27   408.29   413.5 
414.13 

calling  147.7   216.4   216.29 

322.14   364.31 
calls  29.11   79.12 
calluses  109.6 


calm  44.12   132.23   132.25 

190.29  205.20   235.20 
calmest  278.6 

calves  359.2 

calyx  293.11 

Cambridge  114.10 

Camden  265.6 

came  12.9   52.1   70.25   80.23 
82.2   82.9   82.12   89.18 
90.17   90.20   107.30   117.15 
118.14   125.27   167.18   168.14 
180.9   181.12   194.6   194.16 
196.28   207.29   212.27   213.5 

215.11  215.14   215.30   216.11 

216.12  217.21   219.19   222.30 
223.1   223.6   245.1   249.6 
253.14   260.8   263.9   273.21 

273.26  273.31   274.12   281.1 
300.6   304.13   317.10   354.2 
380.6   396.17   400.10   412.3 

camel ' s  153 . 26 

camp  38.6   74.31   115.23   248.13 

257.30  271.25   344.31   353.25 
campaign  358.15 

camped  43.3   106.5   179.11 

camping  106.5 

camping-ground  249.9 

can   #152 

Canaan  263.12 

Canada  90.18   174.1   174.5 

174.14   324.2   344.22   381.21 
Canadian  230.28 
canal  32.7   62.19   62.25   63.28 

260.4   261.3   273.15   273.30 

385.20   391.7 
canal-boat  62.1   150.16   200.23 

221.10 
canal-boatman  382.20 
canal-boats  89.2   211.16   227.23 

235.13  273.18   273.31   307.18 
canals  259.27   261.28 
canceled  311.25 

candles  55.20 

cane  168.25 

cannot  25.18   35.6   72.18 
72.27   78.28   91.24   99.5 
118.6   132.8   135.12   138.27 

153.22  155.17   162.12   162.13 
182.8   189.11   210.4   229.28 

265.27  285.9   287.23   294.9 

298.23  299.17   301.8   301.14 

304.14  304.26   311.6   312.1 

323.15  330.8   333.11   333.14 
339.11   343.26   350.16   362.4 

366.28  370.3   392.5   399.21 
413.8   420.2 

canoe  340.5   340.8   342.1 

343.18   344.1   344.19   345.1 

canoes  228.18   343.5 

canopy  166 . 29 

canst  36.24 

cant  74.1   74.2 

Canterbury  Tales  399.15 

Canterbury  Tales  (Prologue)  397.15 

canting  78.18 

canvas  310.21   311.1   365.26 

capable  53.5   301.18 

capacities  310.24 

capacity  376.4 

cape  14.5   245.23   248.6 

capes  250.12   257.13 

cape-wise  207.25 

capital  181.27   332.11 

captain  33.8   33.14   253.26 
268.29 


Captain  David  M'Clary 


14 


cheer 


Captain  David  M'Clary  270.25 

Captain  John  Smith  91.31 

Captain  Lovewell  123.19 

captive  108.4   174.4 

captives  174.10 

captivity  342.6 

captor  342.15 

car  324.23 

caravan  210.30   401.24 

caravans  209.10 

caravansary  155.3 

carcass  236.9 

carcasses  237.4 

cardinals  18.12 

care  58.23   62.21   328.22   330.29 

382.2 
career  312.26 
careful  25.11 
carefully  268.13 
careless  54.10   111.16   262.4 

296.25   348.21   401.9 
carelessly  316.3 
cares  211.25   239.10 
cargo  225.31 
Carlisle  4.5   37.27   50.20 

51.23   53.17 
Carlisle  Bridge  20.13   37.23 
Carnac  267.1   267.4   267.4   267.5 
carol  167.19   393.28 
carpenter  298.21 
carpenters  227.30   230.3 
carpet  179.14   355.11 
carpets  291.6 
carriages  166.18 
carried  8.5   17.24   34.2   102.27 

174.4   174.27   180.1   194.7 

223.19  223.29   225.10   225.12 

225.12  236.5   236.6   252.17 
312.28   312.31   325.1   374.25 

carries  30.28 

carry  19.22   23.27   63.26   64.21 

150.13  185.27   221.19   236.13 
287.16   293.23   327.9   330.10 
334.12   335.13   338.17   344.1 

385.20  415.21 
carrying  325.7 
cars  90.1 

cart  251.13 

Carthage  265.27 

cart-wheel  31.11 

carved  175.27   197.27   409.19 

carving  166.16 

cascade  89.20 

cascades  86.6   137.8 

case  21.22   73.3   74.17   79.29 
88.4   117.4   126.4   132.11 
218.12   231.16   272.27   311.29 

cases  21.26   209.24 

casks  223.22 

cassia  97.13 

cast  20.4   24.8   29.27   43.6 
68.19   97.17   121.6   257.18 
274.11   280.9   365.3   375.19 
376.15   376.19   402.4 

caste  146.11   147.5   155.8 

castes  146.27 

casting  118.1   129.22   235.16 
334.19 

castle  72.16 

castles  6.18   256.12   291.12 

casts  375.30 

Catacombs  178.27 

catalogue  72.7 

catastrophe  393.31 


catch  82.12   183.26   247.17 

325.9 
catches  30.5 
catechism  82.4 
Catechism  82.13 
catechisms  78.17 
catechizing  82.8 
catholic  65.13   197.15   224.21 

349.7 
catkins  266.16 
catnip  52.18   272.6 
Cato's  405.21 
Catskills  200.8   254.24 
cattle  131.3   166.23   205.13 

214.28   215.3   235.12   358.3 

358.20   359.18   359.22   361.6 

379.16 
cattle-show  358.9 
cattle-shows  358.28 
caudal  26.4 
caught  26.27   27.4   28.15   28.27 

29.20   29.26   30.24   63.11 

191.10   205.18   317.14   350.25 
cause  36.5   37.12   88.29   148.31 

159.23   252.16   265.18   300.29 

315.6  327.13   397.1 
caused  208.10   208.15   265.10 

380.30 
causes  133.1   209.24   222.25 

388.1 
causeway  105.27 
causing  354.23 
caution  206.18 
cavities  261 . 9 
cease  77.15   104.12 
ceased  14.17   315.6 
ceaseless  211.14 
ceaselessly  10.4   66.26 
ceases  202.14   293.16   314.23 

381.7  381.9 
ceasing  117.28 

celebrate  384.8   393.29   417.5 
celebrated  33.6   130.17 
celestial  45.6   105.14   199.27 

408.16  418.4 

cellar  168.19   169.1   193.12 

207.13 
Celtic  53.16 

central  353.15   373.5   388.16 
centre  50.27   190.24   205.14 

280.9   347.20   373.3 
cents  74.31   122.13   325.16 
centuries  67.13   160.14   162.29 

182.25   262.7   389.23   391.3 
century  24.14   51.5   60.16   64.23 

245.27   261.14   266.25   346.22 

396.17  396.29   412.6 
cereal  212.15 
cerealian  238.2 
ceremony  289.15 

certain  23.7   33.10   69.3   137.11 
209.25   213.18   216.30   239.27 

287.13  292.25   311.27   333.6 

339.14  348.29   351.11   376.7 
certainly  34.21   69.4   77.14 

98.28   136.18   310.24   379.7 

399.4 
cestus  102.28 
chafed  334.16 
chaffer  312.19 
chafing  420.25 
chagrin  418.29 
chagrined  307.26 
chain  4.13   123.12   420.24 


Chain  Bridge  87.26 

chains  230.26 

chairman  142.17 

Chaldaean  149.26 

challenge  407.12 

chamber  56.24   219.4   354.25 

chambers  199.15 

chance  98.21   197.24   373.14 

change  87.13   128.18   133.1 

133.7  189.18   217.6   252.7 
310.31   312.2   312.2   336.26 
356.5   374.16   391.14 

changed  150.18   235.25   263.16 

329.8  357.26 

changes  196.1   258.1   362.20 
channel  10.12   62.18   90.2 

105.14   137.4   165.30   189.7 

213.8   224.7   235.13   246.28 

253.17   312.22   334.31 
chant  56.19   319.28 
chapel  118.18 
chapels  319.29 
chaps  206.6 
chapter  272.11 
chapters  106.31 
character  44.7   45.25   167.12 

178.5   178.24   203.7   214.2 

222.2  222.26   226.11   234.4 

275.16  275.28   283.11   301.15 

333.17  361.1   375.29   394.27 

396.26  397.27   398.7   398.16 

398.27  400.20 
characteristic  154.3 
characteristics  21.8 
characterizes  369.31 
characters  212.19   264.18 

288.10   315.18   315.28 
charcoal  152.31   166.25   271.25 
charge  25.11   117.26 
chariot  199.5 
charitable  294.27 
charity  293.17   293.18 
Charlestown  221.23 
Charles  Wilkins  148.6 
charm  72.18   105.7   182.27 

239.26   258.6   398.4 
charmed  308.1 
charms  351.10 
Charon  122.20 
charred  344.18 
chase  56 . 2 
chased  375.17 
chasing  237.21 
chasm  100.23 
chasms  129.17 

chat  116.5   326.28   344.13 
Chateaubriand  (M.)  137.24 

138.4 
chatted  180.3 
chatting  151.9 
Chaucer  6.23   293.24   337.22 

353.1   391.25   392.31   394.4 

394.17   395.15   395.29   396.8 

396.19   397.14   399.22   399.29 
Chaucer's  393.11   398.27 
cheap  60.29   100.3   111.15 

284.4   284.5   288.20   290.27 

298.3  361.17 
cheaper  325.21 
cheapest  325.5 
cheated  409.23 
checkered  45.11 

cheeks  104.14   206.7   384.19 
cheer  183.9   204.1 


cheered 


15 


clouds 


cheered  97.4   318.23 
cheerful  78.6   120.9   344.24 

393.19 
cheerfully  219.2   298.22   385.25 
cheerily  109.4 
cheering  163.12 
cheery  317.7 
cheese  131.4   220.12 
Chelmsford  53.18   63.10   81.25 
85.13   88.22   92.8   113.20 
113.23   268.17   384.6   391.20 
chemistry  383.11   389.20 
cherish  286.27   400.11 
cherished  328.31 
cherishes  289.4   331.1   385.28 
cherubim  394.10 
chess  222.13 
chest  102.7   151.19   180.6 

230.12 
chestnut  6.21   361.10 
chewers  130.15 
chickaree  206.13 
chickens  196.23 
chief  94.8   140.16   239.30   280.12 

347.15 
chiefly  204.4   253.9   383.19 

418.5 
chieftain  292.5 

child  78.30   78.31   94.26   142.1 
215.20   215.31   224.16   338.19 
349.31   397.7   398.3   398.3 
398.6   398.11   398.13 
childbed  342.8 

childhood  33.1   380.10   406.6 
childish  387.6 
childlike  396.30   398.25 
children  14.9   32.27   49.13 
60.1   75.19   82.4   98.29 
122.13   124.12   127.13   148.24 
196.16   205.3   205.24   212.7 
214.31   264.13   284.19   304.20 
335.11   342.11   342.21   374.31 
child's  52.28 
chilly  344.28 
chimney  193.13   402.21 
chimney-corner  196.24 
chin  319.17 
China  151.14 
Chinese  23.27   72.23   98.19 

141.15   150.5   263.19   420.13 
chinks  166.29 
chip  223.22   301.14 
chipper  236.29 
Chippeway  135.2 
Chippeways  230.22 
chipping  205.27 
chips  11.23   153.6   274.10 
chirp  340.20 
chisel  41.1   248.11 
chisels  205.31 
chivin  27.17   27.28   28.1   28.15 

30.24 
chocolate  166.23 
choice  27.9   75.2 
choicest  288.14 
choir  317.9 
choose  101.12   138.24 
chopping  6.19 
choppings  105.18 
chose  218.23 

chosen  65.24   246.19   333.4 
Christ  67.19   67.21   68.9   68.12 
68.13   68.15   71.8   74.19 
142.1   346.20   412.25 
Christendom  33.20   66.4 


Christian  67.12   68.10   83.2 

114.9   292.26   293.15 
Christianity  67.27   67.27   75.1 

78.26   82.15   141.18 
Christians  59.30   68.17   72.15 

73.16 
chronicle  368.21 
Chronicle  of  Bernaldez  418.1 
chronicles  53.12   400.24 
chronology  159.28 
chuckle  117.29 
chuckling  206.11 
church  19.21   48.30   63.30 

64.22   72.5   77.1   77.11 

77.30   82.11 
Church  124.18   346.6 
church-bell  68.1 
church-bin  414.9 
churches  68.10   77.29 
churchyard  175.4   381.8 
cigar  99.29 
Cincinnatus  402.13 
circle  152.30   252.17   287.17 

392.26 
circles  31.15   132.7   367.9 
circling  5.21   7.34   24.30 
circuitous  353.20 
circular  31.9   264.30 
circulate  128.14   157.25 
circulated  226.8   353.12 
circulates  275.3 
circumlocution  397.7 
circumspect  29.15 
circumstance  175.28   311.30 

312.8 
circumstances  20.11   66.7   101.30 

141.3   194.28   195.30   220.26 

311.3  348.19   361.10   400.7 
cis-Alpine  303.27 
cis-Atlantic  303.27 

citadel  341.7 
,  citj.es  56.16   128.11   209.11 

212.17   326.26 
citizen  336.24   396.10 
citizens  270.26 
city  50.20   85.10   85.14   89.21 

251.8   254.5   260.23   336.15 

349.8   363.3   407.5 
civil  21.21   40.23   50.21   52.5 

53.28   55.4   66.5   115.21 

212.4  212.14   336.28   391.22 
civility  218.24   284.5   288.13 
civilization  55.6   56.8   56.21 

336.26   368.24 
civilized  3.3   39.10   59.3   65.30 

99.11   217.11   272.22   336.22 

368.20   368.22   368.27   392.7 
civilizing  55.11 
civilly  218.19 
clad  341.28 
claim  382.22 
claims  247.13   404.4 
clambered  253.24 
clams  304.25 
clang  186.1 
clangor  344.11 
clannish  148.16 
clarion  40.26   186.1 
clash  138.30 
class  127.25   130.26   147.13 

254.17   349.30   382.28   394.26 
classes  283.10   400.27 
classic  195.10   230.9   230.17 

238.9 
classical  27.23   31.29   54.22 


classical  (cont.)  60.21   61.2 

197.11  238.25 
classics  239.5 
classification  148.21 
clatter  5.19 

claws  101.22 

clay  122.3   188.9   188.12 

251.7   318.23   381.16 
clayey  90.28   203.11   309.13 
clean  156.3   219.5   236.24 

326.5 
cleanly  56.8 
cleansed  377.7 
clear  27.8   28.25   32.22   44.17 

69.18   71.1   123.15   167.19 

198.4   244.31   249.24   309.25 

340.12  368.9   373.17   390.18 
419.14 

cleared  8.28   129.15   193.30 

392.22 
clearer  71.2 
clearest  278.6 
clearing  6.28   52.1   336.25 

409.25 
clearings  124.21   212.12 
clearly  71.1   197.30   315.29 

411.18  412.4 
cleft  191.9 
clerk  100.12 
clerks  51.30 
clever  308.9 
cliff  374.9   420.13 
cliffs  38.28   43.10   48.22 

49.31   170.17   265.28   341.4 

353.2 
Cliffs  of  Dover  54.23 
climb  190.8   192.27   200.9 

319.26 
climbed  193.4   198.24   207.27 

226.14   256.14   271.12   377.10 
climbing  43.23   66.11   116.15 

318.20 
climes  366.16 
cling  394.7 
clinging  31.16   31.19 
clings  79.21   278.13   405.2 
clipped  43.16 
cloaks  374.24 

clock  19.4   206.17   229.33 
clocks  324.19 
clod  258.18 
clog  273.23 
clogged  314.30 
close  18.16   25.11   25.21 

39.18      92.12  -    97.4      118.3 

119.19  169.1   203.17   207.12 
274.21   307.19   362.16   380.28 

closed  119.9   213.23 

closely  43.20   195.6   250.18 

closeness  56 . 7 

closer  187.19   320.10 

closing  252 . 27 

cloth  13.7   85.12   93.3   166.10 

368.26 
clothe  109.21   283.5   404.27 
clothed  45.9   52.23   355.12 

386.11 
clothes  117.1   117.3   138.5 

312.2   318.30   343.16   415.22 
clothing  189.18   222.8 
cloud  118.25   197.2   198.25 

200.14   223.2   226.19   277.27 
cloudland  197.28 
cloudless  255.7 
clouds  24.1   27.30   28.11   38.2 


clouds  (cont.) 


16 


concave 


clouds  (cont.)  45.13   85.30 
86.27   164.27   170.7   173.29 
179.9   183.2   189.11   190.2 

198.7  198.21   199.3   199.12 
202.3   278.6   320.7   333.28 
336.31   357.9   375.19   384.25 
407.2   417.3 

cloudy  23.16   200.15   310.10 

318.31 
clover  4.28 
clown  399.25 
clue  266.3 
clump  208.30 

cluster  257.24   338.29   358.18 
clustering  392.2 
clusters  166.5   403.21 
coach  222. 3 
coal  70.28   174.17 
coals  236.10   344.15 
coarse  166.10   218.6   359.12 

361.6 
coast  23.9   91.27   92.1   148.12 

190.20   202.8   205.9   210.12 

246.13   249.17   253.14   254.10 

254.22 
Coast  6.7   359.15 
coasted  43.14 
coaster  230.12 
coat  7.33   22.10   77.21   360.17 

360.25 
cobbled  168.27 
cobweb  20.16   70.30   36  3.17 
cobwebs  135.23   167.7   413.16 
cock  40.26   365.1 
cockboat  253.23 
cockerels  360.29 
cockles  249.23   255.14   415.22 
cocks  40.28 

cocoa  38.12   180.5   354.7 
cocoanut  224.9   295.28 
code  157.11 
codicil  135.29 
coeval  22.24   57.10 
Cohass-Brook  250.27 
Cohasset  251.2 
coin  26.8   196.6   264.20 
coincidence  28.5 
coincidences  387.7 
coincident  296.23   365.23 
coke  301.28 

Colchian  Dragon  135.17 
cold  5.25   101.28   194.8   194.16 

196.8  230.28  261.25  272.17 
272.17  275.22  280.14  286.2 
302.12   320.2   325.16 

colder  196.12 

collars  360.17   360.18 

collect  11.1   31.13   60.24 

219.29   382.29 
collected  150.4   194.18   196.8 

203.17   260.11   343.3 
collections  178.26 
collects  400.8 

college  109.22   197.8   197.12 
colleges  414.20 
collision  304.15 
Colonel  George  Reid  270.25 
colonies  365.21   413.26 
colony  89.22   114.4 
color  161.14   376.10   381.27 
colorless  26.6 
colors  57.1   106.20   210.10 

364.21   386.12   416.17 
Columbus  60.30   279.7   346.28 

409.11 


Columbus's  418.1 

column    280.2      288.2 

columns  267 . 5 

comb  192.3 

combed  216.7 

combine  132.18 

combined  66.1   181.19   331.22 
413.20 

combing  192.1 

come  5.5   22.4   39.6   44.17 
52.29   72.17   72.24   79.11 
86.27   90.19   107.7   107.21 

110.12  111.21   112.22   122.7 

122.25  128.22   135.3   136.16 
136.17   142.3   142.25   143.6 
155.9   157.26   181.26   189.14 

190.13  191.6   192.4   193.10 

197.22  210.20   210.30   211.3 

213.11  215.20   218.1   240.7 
249.15   254.10   266.20   273.1 
274.15   275.2   278.3   280.22 

280.26  281.27   285.4   288.11 

289.29  301.2   307.18   308.7 

308.30  310.6   311.10   320.4 

323.12  324.7   325.9   325.30 
326.30   329.12   331.21   340.16 
360.26   382.25   392.7   392.21 

392.23  393.8   395.16   398.9 
400.11   400.17   405.15   407.14 

comedy  118.5 

comes  29.18   52.31   53.15   85.6 
86.2   86.18   92.29   117.14 

156.2  159.9   167.20   169.12 

206.29  225.21   232.1   250.30 
273.1   291.24   293.12   315.2 
332.8   371.11   398.29 

comest  289.17 

comets  164.12 

comfort  119.10   320.10 

comfortable  196.22   219.5   357.17 

392.29 
comfortably  196.15 
comforts  138.11   393.1 
coming  63.29   207.16   211.20 

216.23   268.6 
command  4.22   401.20 
commanded  268.29 
commanding  190.4   207.15   256.7 

315.30 
commands  269.4   365.15 
commemorated  161.19 
commemorates  161.22 
commemorating  360.11 
commence  202.7   342.9 
commenced  3.7   263.22   335.24 

343.6   357.16 
commendation  331.23 
commends  229.25 
comment  153.27   222.1 
commentaries  72.8 
commentators  159.8 
commenting  265.5 
commerce  39.8   62.29   89.9 

89.31   150.20   195.24   200.27 

220.19   222.11   224.9   228.6 

245.4   330.10 
commercial  87.15 
commit  290.4 
committee  79.17 

commodities  195.25   224.21   386.14 
common  24.18   26.19   29.12   30.18 

31.1   53.5   56.27   59.4   59.29 

60.13   92.11   97.31   116.28 

128.30  153.18   154.6   175.11 

193.3  220.9   238.27   272.30 


common  (cont.)  285.8   299.32 

347.12  364.22   380.1   397.24 

397.27  405.25   408.22   412.31 

413.9  413.11   414.13   414.16 
commonest  94.12 

commonly  27.22   65.29   72.27 

100.11  108.11   132.9   135.31 
193.6   199.8   204.28   221.16 
221.19   226.15   252.9   256.2 
256.17   258.7   273.9   275.25 
282.8   282.23   284.24   287.9 

289.28  309.10  311.7  350.5 
372.24  390.9  400.1  403.18 
408.21 

commonplace  330.8 
common-sense  413.6 
commonweal  136.7 
commonwealth  135.3 
communicate  146.2   387.20 
communicated  182.30   222.26 
communication  22.9   159.7 

182.28   223.12   363.30 
communications  295.6 
community  53.3 
compact  26.7 
companion  127.10   136.20   165.20 

169.26  196.2   297.2   376.25 
companions  125.27   196.27 

227.13  284.19   295.15   362.26 
company  26.29   33.9   33.17 

123.19   125.2   151.9   174.18 

175.10  209.28   282.4   297.9 

300.5  363.21   396.22   397.17 
comparable  319.22 
comparatively  90.28   138.5 

147.6  148.15   190.21   408.10 

413.5  419.25 
compare  155.12   159.10 
compared  8.9   55.19   106.2 

132.24   263.21   282.31   368.20 
391.21   393.19   403.15 
comparison  149.21   150.9   320.14 

339.12  364.17 
comparisons  64.1 

compass  192.26   200.10   279.8 

362.21   388.9   409.13 
compel  315.30 
compelled  108.7   175.24   247.5 

319.6  342.7   370.11 
compels  249.26   397.2 
compensate  122.22 
compensation  315.9 
competent  179.1   285.17 
compiled  99.19 

complain  105.17   161.15   294.30 

295.27  300.12 
complained  105.8 
complainer  329.9 

complaint  295.20   300.12   329.5 

329.5 
complements  287.9 
complete  28.1   32.1 
completed  188.11   263.8   263.16 
completely  196.13 
completeness  59.9   149.14 

322.11  349.5 

compliment  274.23   283.28   284.8 
composed  58.14   160.15 
composing  238.24   320.12   403.13 
composition  161.8   351.18 
compositions  135.19 
comprehend  218.29 
comrades '  56 . 31 
Conantum  374.7 
concave  353.16   353.17 


conceal 


17 


convenient 


conceal  81.11   204.14 
concealed  14.11   85.1   129.18 
169.31   170.11   245.21   250.24 

261.9  319.30   335.27   339.12 
356.20 

concealing  202.11   214.1 

conceive  296.21   405.6   406.3 

conceived  143.2   364.16 

conceives  392.15 

concentrate  400.1 

concentration  26.11 

conception  159.17 

conceptions  56.29 

concern  394.23 

concerned  58.21   159.2   328.15 

concerning  140.10   412.2   412.9 

concerns  23.5   63.11 

conciliated  362.5 

conciliatory  62.32 

conclude  138.21   147.20   176.5 
193.17   263.23   322.18   329.10 

concluded  93.8   116.29   174.20 
208.12   335.17 

concluding  318.5 

conclusion  51.22 

conclusions  181.20   389.15 

conclusively  106.23 

Concord  3.6   3.13   3.15   4.1   4.7 
5.15   7.31   7.34   8.23   9.2 
9.31   11.16   12.2   12.3   14.4 
14.19   16.2   19.5   19.25   19.26 

32.2  36.29      43.9      44.20      49.26 

51.3  61.25   62.3   62.27   64.8 
88.22   89.3   89.25   90.25 
113.4   124.26   169.28   170.17 
221.22   226.19   227.19   268.15 
308.11   322.13   322.19   322.19 
322.22   345.30   358.8   374.7 
378.29   391.10   403.11   420.19 

Concord  North  Bridge  33.8 
Concord  River  3.10   7.28   10.18 

35.15   222.31 
Concord  Sachem  82.11 
condemn  328.15 
condemning  139.5 
condensed  94 . 3 
condescend  415.19 
condescension  293.8 
condition  11.23   125.30   136.27 

165.4   165.5   165.14   165.18 

329.6 
conditions  138.28   324.21 
conduct  100.15   295.18   315.20 

349.3   362.5 
conducted  11.3   62.19   380.6 
conducting  11.12 
cones  206.24   266.17 
confer  111.24   405.10 
conferred  58.1   417.30 
confess  72.4   109.30   178.26 

296.1  399.31 
confesses  348.23 
confidant  71.24 
confidants  285.22 
confide  296.18 
confided  161.21 

confidence  112.30   223.25   284.30 

296.10  296.18   312.9   327.11 
330.27   397.5 

confident  81.4   312.6 
confidently  121.3   287.16   318.28 

412.2  420.5 
confides  397.3 
confined  23.6   165.7 
confines  179.12   412.13 


confirmation  412.14 

confirmed  412.18 

confirms  264.20   264.23   265.4 

confluence  85.23   258.9 

conform  362.12 

conformity  71.8   414.14 

confound  28  3.8 

confounded  21.13   28.21   60.31 

263.20   350.6 
confront  364.8 

Confucius  159.6   288.7   299.7 
confusion  111.1   163.11   393.7 
congeries  376.15 
Congo  3  59.15 
congratulate  164.7 
conical  318.11 
conjectures  81.14 
conjecturing  343.28 
conjoined  135.17 
connected  308.16 
Connecticut  88.14   90.13   90.20 

91.16   212.26   261.18   263.14 
connecting  79.25   209.29 
connection  139.3 
conquer  81.6   310.17 
conquered  229.25   365.21 
conquering  135.14 
conscience  75.14   77.9   138.21 

140.16   142.10 
consciences  75.17 
conscious  39.26   45.4   67.7 

287.5   294.1   364.10   401.19 
consciously  351.12 
consciousness  351.6 
consecrate  303.13 
consecrated  20.19   282.19 
consent  59.8   67.15   132.13 

315.26 
consented  179.16 
consequences  146.30 
consequent  88.26 
consequently  32.16   138.4 
conservatism  140.11   140.27 

141.13   147.7 
conservatives  140.16 
consider  58.25   67.26   105.12 

110.10   161.4   163.5   168.25 

239.24  245.29   272.23   385.24 
393.3   407.2 

considerable  4.22   197.4   226.23 

260.30 
consideration  333.9 
considered  195.2   401.30 
consist  287. 3 
consisted  216.26   342.20 
consistency  35.4   105.30 
consistent  330.26   333.8 
consists  20.13   146.20   239.30 

292.25  398.4   401.20 
consolation  141.5   291.13   303.21 
consoled  393.31 

conspicuous  19.14   31.26   82.1 
91.8   169.14   231.8   299.19 

conspicuously  227.25 

conspired  109.20 

constable  122.14   136.12 

Constance  398.12 

constant  11.4   25.5   25.24   40.1 
65.27   206.10   213.29   278.10 
287.8   289.5   375.26   388.21 
393.25 

constantly  25.28   74.10   107.11 
137.3   221.28   240.4   362.15 
383.5 

constellations  239.7 


constituted  33.25   196.22 

constitutes  331.20 

constitution  141.2 

Constitution  135.18 

constitutional  287.8   300.16 

constitutions  367.31 

constrain  120.1   219.1 

constrained  348.31 

construct  177.23 

constructed  32.18 

construction  221.10   331.17 

consult  112.21   273.6   419.11 

consultation  335.16 

consulted  339.8   402.8   419.13 

consulting  112.21 

consults  112.17 

consumed  228.17 

consuming  212.16   221.21   261.5 

contact  310.6 

contain  53.12   94.3   100.25 

287.30   367.2 
contained  79.18   230.12 
containing  196.3   238.16   382.16 
contains  60.13   93.4   113.22 

204.11  230.18   250.28   260.19 

280.1  340.22 
contemplate  133.25   238.29 

282.24 
contemplated  128.8 
contemplating  141.20   147.12 
contemplation  130.12   142.31 

143.2  149.5   160.8   221.26 
contemplations  23.20   149.11 
contemplative  23.21   61.26 

250.5   391.15   417.14 
contemplativeness  158.24 
contemporaries  32.2   36.18 

93.10   178.7   392.19   396.15 
contemporary  104.7   157.29 

395.20   403.5   411.10 
contend  81.5 

contending  103.4   193.28 
content  24.14   59.27   65.2 

74.10   202.19   284.12   296.27 

299.26   393.29 
contented  220.23   227.1   255.15 

284.15 
contest  263.24 
continent  258.2   258.10   258.13 

278.12  390.18 
continental  393.9 
continents  11.8   383.14 
continually  49.2   252.27   254.13 

281.17   361.22   361.28 
continuation  157.10 
continue  56.23   296.2   346.19 
continued  216.20   308.28   318.18 

326.2 
continues  82.20 
continuous  372.30 
Contoocook  87.8   341.27 
contract  251.9   299.10 
contracted  61.29   251.7 
contrary  174.22   298.11 
contrast  299.20   336.13   391.24 

418.23 
contrasting  43.25   330.8 
contributing  38.18 
contribution  210.9   258.11 
contributory  315.3 
contrived  194.10   227.1   385.19 
convalescent  405.9 
convenience  63.21   152.24 

154.24   312.29   339.9 
convenient  51.25   64.20   117.24 


convenient  (cont.) 


18 


criticism 


convenient  (cont.)  124.19   189.24 

207.13   309.6   325.21 
conveniently  102.7   203.15 
conventicle  156.16 
convention  131.16 
conventional  156.15 
conversant  182.26 
conversation  108.17   275.25 

301.26 
conversations  289.26 
converse  238.22   300.1   319.24 

322.7   394.25 
•conversed  205.11 
conversing  239.6   335.25   354.8 
converted  209.27   260.4   293.13 

379.20 
convey  199.12   329.22 
conveyed  25.20   225.10   335.15 
conveys  95.9   157.5   364.13 
convicted  142.9 
convince  65.1   311.11   390.22 
convinced  54.8   65.3   146.15 

185.17  196.18   311.6 
convinces  265.19 
convincing  181.19 
convulsion  368.8 
cooing  235.26 

cook  325.10   343.31 
cooked  194.20 
cooking  237.27 

cool  18.3   216.2   220.3   246.11 
246.21   260.16   309.14   354.5 

356.18  374.22 

cooler  151.10   203.15   204.4 
cooling  309.24 
coolly  357.11 
coolness  127.12 
cooperation  162.1 
Coos  Falls  248.10   353.24 
coots  211.10 
cope  118.26 
copied  266.23   339.3 
copies  60.4 

copper  28.13   263.3   284.9 
copper-colored  176.24 
Coppermine  River  28.14 
coppery  26.10 
coppice  255.11 
copses  53.24   246.11 
copse-wood  226.15 
copy  94.31 
.coral  278.9   386.1 
cord  50.28   62.23   74.31   79.25 

108.31   185.15   185.23   391.9 
cords  221.20   354.24 
corduroy  358.27 
core  212.6 
coreopses  377.27 
coreopsis  18.17 
cork  20.27   28.3 
corn  54.18   84.31   85.7   117.5 

131.17   152.21   165.12   191.11 

204.25   230.1   237.29   256.17 

343.18 
corn-barn  335.9 
corner  60.23   148.20   215.27 

216.1   308.15   413.16 
cornfield  119.15 
corn-field  344.17 

corn-fields  52.22   55.10   187.15 
corporation  35.21 
correct  401.4 
corrected  329.3 
correction  328.28 
corresponding  109.9   202.11 


corresponding  (cont.)  299.22 

389.27 
corridor  391.7 
corrupts  297.4 
corselet  186.2 
Corybantes  360.4 
cosmogonal  149.23 
cossack  135.2 
cost  12.17   367.25   382.2 
costs  221.11 
costume  367.28   367.29 
cottage  82.4   213.27   245.14 

247.10   253.6 
cottages  166.13   245.26   357.11 

357.16 
cotton  13.7   85.11   180.25 

185.28   195.27   196.24   196.26 

317.3 
could   #114 
council  383.29 
council-fire  209.15 
counsel  282.27 
count  71.18   167.7   254.12 

254.14  294.3 
countenance  20.9   211.23 
counter  215.26   219.13 
counter-current  274.6 
counterpart  214.17 
counting  254.8 
countless  5.27   23.8   35.26 

136.25  263.7   377.27 
countries  65.30   166.22   227.7 

272.22 
country  5.9   22.15   42.1   45.18 

52.5  55.24   62.25   77.10 

88.6  90.8   111.16   113.4 
115.3   123.6   126.28   127.8 

127.15  134.6   139.7   150.28 

157.8  158.18   181.5   185.19 
190.17   192.31   194.2   198.7 

198.9  202.2   204.15   204.30 
213.12   216.22   217.7   217.14 

218.19  219.16   221.1   221.21 
226.21   230.25   231.15   231.20 

231.26  232.4   245.25   249.11 

265.23  271.17   281.8   317.4 
320.9   324.16   327.9   333.29 

334.24  358.22   358.28   373.6 
384.7   388.12   395.2 

countryman  117.4   210.15 

countrymen  102.29   122.8   396.15 

country's  65.9   360.15 

counts  27.13   27.13 

couple  353.29 

couples  282.22 

coupling  396.25 

courage  183.29 

courageously  146.9 

course  10.2   45.17   53.26   75.21 
88.15   89.29   90.14   90.20 
90.28   116.12   147.5   167.18 
204.6   209.20   213.4   222.21 
227.21   253.19   262.7   271.20 
274.28   311.24   312.10   338.20 

367.20  417.4 
coursed  372.1 
courses  280.7 
court  21.19   394.31 
courtesied  12.15 

courtesy  80.29   84.21   289.12 

299.32   301.24 
courtiers  419.10 
cousin  107.31   192.6 
cousins  282.6 
cousin-trout  27.17 


cove  253.9 

cover  95.22   158.19   196.10 

212.6 
covered  4.12   20.23   26.2   38.25 

42.2   79.15   115.26   152.27 

160.17  169.18   193.30   227.26 
230.26   265.25   304.5   365.4 
380.19   390.15 

covering  8.14   19.15   91.10 

119.5  218.9   390.22 
covers  99.22 

covert  17.21 

coves  118.22 

covet  296.11 

cow-bells  38.3 

cowering  99.4 

cows  82.6   219.29   220.1   246.18 

359.18  417.15 
cow-yard  192.21 
crab  213.20 
crabbed  361.8 
crabs  361.13 
crack  206.3   304.12 
cracked  101.15   304.17 
cracking  417.17 
crackled  119.6 

crackling  39.25   328.9   392.30 

406.23 
cradles  166.20 
craft  81.30   105.19   379.7 
crag  392.24 
cramped  331 . 16 

cranberries  5.28   126.12   414.4 
cranberry  8.13   319.22   339.17 
Cranberry  Island  6.4 
crawled  354. 3 
creak  392.4 
creaking  366.14 
create  161.7   167.15 
created  159.24   231.22   259.16 
creating  249.15 
creation  28.7   159.17   164.29 

406.11   418.14 
Creator  159.24 
creature  13.10-   31.3   135.11 

360.31 
creatures  66.30   101.26   164.10 

229.8   229.30   236.12   236.27 
credit  51.4  .178.22   332.10 

333.5 
creditably  32.28   33.7   334.6 
credulity  272.25   272.28 
creed  79.18   79.19   79.22 

332.18   394.14 
creek  253.5   309.15 
creeks  118.22 
creels  167.25 
creep  311.30 
creeping  124.30   128.5   151.7 

226.6  340.15 
creeps  8.12 
Cressy  394.22 

crevice  43.24   130.29   198.2 
crevices  319.13 
cricket  180.26   323.24 
crickets  157.9   340.21 
crime  237.10   301.18 
crippled  126.6   126.8 
cripples  78.3 

crisis  350.22   381.7   381.9 
crisped  122.7 

critical  105.23   162.11   194.28 
critically  161.4 
criticism  98.20   155.14   155.20 
299.25   396.31   401.3   401.4 


criticism  (cont.) 


19 


dealt 


criticism  (cont.)  401.29 
critics  148.21   366.30 
croaking  151.21 
crockery  276.1   304.14 
Crodar  371.10 
Cromwell  84.24   207.28 
Cromwell's  207.31 
Cromwell's  Falls  88.27   206.26 

211.16 
crook  65.24 
crooked  361.8 
Crooked  River  231.30 
crop  54.19 

crops  100.8   216.27   236.2 
cross  86.6   122.9   123.5   348.21 
crossed  49.10   116.20   122.29 

169.26   190.9   334.24   334.31 
crosses  189.20   325.12 
crossing  179.11   249.4 
crow  246.1 
crowbar  36.7 
crowd  102.9   110.23   161.26 

261.3   279.12   359.28   360.11 
crowded  116.7   361.9 
crowds  358.17   359.25 
crowing  40 . 28 

crown  67.19   136.31   150.11 
crownings  349.10 
crowns  404.2  5 
crucifixion  72.30 
crude  195.11   246.23 
cruel  312.11 
cruising  307.15 
crumb  325.16 
crumble  285.15 
crumbled  402.17 
crumbling  45.24   87.17   247.3 

251.23 
crumbs  196.28 
crush  135.5   411.11 
crust  181.22 

cry  36.17   39.23   56.26   111.25 
crypt  330.19 
crystalline  29.6   45.7 
cud  75.20 
cull  329.29 
culled  52.8 
Culluca  157.15 
Culluca  Bhatta  154.31 
cultivate  54.3   100.5 
cultivated  13.1   38.22   43.13 

53.23   55.7   152.22   217.1 

308.10   324.16   337.1   345.28 

374.26   381.23 
cultivates  259.15   392.29   400.28 
cultivating  100.4 

cultivation  55.6   379.19   381.21 
cultivators  53.29 
culture  148.23   218.30   287.12 

296.5   393.13 
Cumaean  Sibyl  346.30 
Cummings  21.22 
cumulative  363.15 
cunning  332.7   337.10 
cunningly  99.18 
cup  158.13   189.25   325.3 
cupreous  28.9 
curb  257.6 
cure  273.9 
curing  112.14 
curiosity  84.22   90.30   252.4 

261.21 
curious  24.5   31.9 
curl  42.5 


curled  42.3   127.22   338.18 
338.28 

curling  235.16 

curls  18.31 

current  7.29   8.3   11.17   17.17 
27.25   28.21   28.28   30.20 
31.7   33.27   74.15   90.22 

90.27  115.27  128.9  150.20 
165.25  194.25  195.6  196.6 
257.31   262.5   266.20   274.11 

309.11  335.23   344.3   344.30 

353.13  354.29   361.27   374.25 

384.20  391.11 

currents  11.7   258.8   259.14 

curse  178.19   295.15   315.14 

curtains  354.23 

curve  288.12 

curved  44.6   227.21   262.3   353.18 

curves  210.10   376.26 

cushions  291.7 

custom  63.31   64.9   136.31   140.13 

140.14  140.15   290.9   360.9 
cut  30.8   34.15   37.29   38.1   49.7 

50.28  52.3   52.11   54.16   70.16 
88.25   101.19   108.30   168.28 

174.7  203.13   312.21   334.15 
391.8 

cut-grass  4.30 
cuts  37.20 

cutting  206.24   223.17 
Cuviers  391.5 
cylindrical  262.24 
Cylon  79.26 
dabbling  156.14 
dace  27.17   28.19   28.31 
daggers  63.18   63.22 
dahlia  304.30 

daily  33.28   34.18   98.12   220.4 
281.6   284.6   335.15   347.27 

406.12  407.13 

dam  32.6   32.21   35.21   36.29 

37.17   122.11 
damaged  125.27 
damages  209.28 
Dame  Nature  130.31 
damp  320.2   354.6 
dams  4.26   31.24   32.14   89.16 

91.5 
damsel  247.14 
dance  108.30   267.31 
dancing  28 . 3 
Dandamis  137.15 
dandelion  52.16 
dandling  257.14 
danger  6.6   35.28   47.29   86.31 

193.21  217.10   294.19   304.15 

312.13  331.28   388.25   392.19 
411.13 

dangerous  99.7   351.18 
dangers  25.3   120.3   230.30 

278.8  343.28 
dangling  326.12 
Daniel  104.29 

dank  250.17   333.18 
Dante  122.29   395.3   396.18 
dare  285.16 
Darfour  153.27 
daring  99.5 

dark  4.17   43.9   78.10   95.22 
117.18   118.25   161.22   163.9 

163.10  163.28   164.6   164.10 

181.11  199.8   216.12   254.27 
254.29   255.1   255.7   255.12 
318.11   345.29   376.12   394.2 


dark  (cont.)  419.17 

dark-ages  163.9 

darken  299.13 

darkening  30.16 

darker  27.30   214.14   246.31 

246.31 
darkest  376.10 
dark-haired  368.29 
darkness  57.3   138.15   163.29 

239.12  255.3   299.16   407.3 
417.20 

dart  25.30 

darting  29.17 

dash  193.12 

dashed    342.13      345.9 

dashing  327.2   356.8 

date  34.5   62.31   178.8   231.27 

233.29   293.4 
dated  42.8   102.26 
dateless  58.1   372.3 
dates  32.13   54.8   231.29 
dating  160.5 
daub  419.1 
daughter  65.25 
Davis  125.25   126.5 
Davy's  254.10 
dawn  40.28   52.31   133.12 

155.16   157.4   183.26   199.4 

266.13  313.2   356.16 
dawned  121.1 

dawns  224.11 

day  #118 

Day  Book  No.  4   3  3.23 

day-born  55.21 

daybreak  197.17   341.28   342.29 

356.1 
day-dreams  54.6 
daylight  40.13   78.12   93.22 

164.3  188.1   197.6   217.13 

217.18  346.4  353.23  383.12 
393.26   417.18 

days  21.19   23.16   25.7   33.4 
33.26   34.6   36.3   56.24 
58.13   60.29   66.27   72.5 
75.3   97.8   103.2   105.7 
108.31   111.1   114.19   123.7 
124.15   125.19   125.28   125.30 
130.28   176.12   189.15   217.19 
221.22   228.18   229.25   235.20 
256.13   278.6   304.17   326.24 
334.26   346.3   356.11   359.24 
368.5   369.2   397.12   411.19 

day's  108.26   133.20   191.5 
216.15   251.14   355.9 

days'  198.25   376.22 

daytime  98.14 

dazzling  55.19   57.1   199.1 

deacon  64.7   64.22 

dead  33.24   39.17   43.9   43.22 
61.25   65.25   90.25   93.18 
134.22   135.27   135.28   137.1 

139.4  140.10  161.20  162.26 
177.12  179.14  265.12  269.8 
271.24  327.6  333.24  343.11 
343.20   379.24 

deaf  112.15   408.10 
deafness  284.11 
deal  50.27   141.9   196.22 
212.10   212.11   284.15 

285.19  408.30 
dealing  283.19 
dealings  224.16 
deals  73.14   298.9 

dealt  217.28   284.1   284.10 


dealt  (cont.) 


20 


determined 


dealt  (cont.)  284.15 

dear  5.25   68.8   179.19   289.18 

305.5 
dearly  73.1   361.2 
death  58.27   67.23   97.14   101.20 

139.5   161.19   268.23   303.20 

311.18   314.18   326.15   347.6 

412.6 
death-warrant  138.27 
debauched  408.14 
debility  368.21 
debt  129.29 
debts  311.24   311.24 
decay  49.22   138.1   375.26   379.22 
decayed  319.22   411.22 
decaying  101.9   303.8 
deceitful  284.14 
deceive  315.11 

deceived  99.27   309.31   315.12 
deceiving  278.5 
decide  374.12 
decided  156.19 
decimated  36.11 
decipher  266.2 
deciphered  266.16 
decision  178.6 
deck  87.21 
decked  45.15 

declare  128.23   135.10   261.15 
declared  77.2 
declares  142.17 
decline  149.9 
declines  139.8 

declining  138.15   377.22   395.23 
declivity  105.14 
dedicated  231.13 
dedicatory  114.6 
deductions  387.29 
deed  108.1   108.2   110.30   111.5 

133.18  295.30   332.30   333.11 
343.14   392.15 

deeded  53.14 

deeds  94.9   108.8   146.1   295.29 
312.4   343.28   367.16   368.2 
369.3 

deemed  139.7 

deep  4.7   20.21   23.24   28.25 
43.5   43.9   101.29   110.6 
118.13   127.7   152.28   160.18 
160.25   179.13   194.15   206.4 
253.9   261.24   262.26   282.4 
334.2   340.18   341.3   351.8 
357.27   361.23   380.19   383.25 
406.23 

deepen  326.20 

deepened  27.29   376.29 

deepening  118.26   224.6   263.8 

deeper  39.26   118.13   141.24 

160.19  160.31   181.22   262.7 
262.7   288.31   323.30   391.16 

deepest  27.1   156.28   336.27 

deer  52.13   109.17   344.7 

Deerfield  River  261.19 

defect  298.23   300.6 

defective  146.13 

defend  308.18 

defendant  329.11 

defended  73.12 

defense  146.26   362.24 

defer  231.3 

deference  272.23 

deficient  110.13 

defined  386.8 

definite  74.12 


definition  93.28 

deform  77.16   301.15 

deformities  402.4 

defrauded  349.15 

defray  129.29   303.22 

defying  253.22 

degenerate  124.12   356.10 

degenerates  56.9 

degree  284.22   296.10   315.22 

401.19 
degrees  164.17   165.14   280.13 

309.29   349.11   372.11 
deities  20.19 
delay  12.8   88.18   228.20 

312.18 
delayed  51.24 
delays  19.4   361.21 
delectable  169.31 
deliberate  154.5   317.2 
deliberately  30.3   100.21   411.9 
delicacy  397.30   398.7 
delicate  63.24   70.27   210.23 

258.10   288.6   294.20   402.2 

402.20 
delicately  48.13   351.15 
delicious  48.24 
delight  373.31 
delighting  365.1 
delights  198.10 
delivered  117.25   150.28 
Delphi  419.9   419.17 
Delphic  132.24 
deluge  31.5   65.7   346.13 
deluged  118.27 
deluging  254.25 
demand  36.29   166.17   284.9 

284.21   289.2   296.16   296.16 

296.28   297.3   311.4   386.11 
demanded  135.8 
demands  101.10   362.6 
demi-exper ience  7.3 
demigod  61 . 3 
Democritus  159.5 
demonic  3  50.7 
demonstration  264.23 
demurely  249.20 
denied  41.4 
denizen  28.2 
dense  18.9   42.2   43.15   189.12 

193.26   227.16   417.3 
densely  43.4   257.26 
denseness  203.8 
denser  25.20 
densest  279.12 
dent  168.19 
dents  168.6 
deny  34.22   116.11 
depart  277.30   353.20   367.17 
departed  164.27   223.2   405.18 
department  414.13   414.19 
departments  388.15 
departure  12.4   18.30   114.2 

175.26   337.23   398.12   420.22 
depend  299.16   304.11 
depended  206.19   236.6 
depends  389.16 
depopulated  58.9 
deposit  17.25   133.16   258.8 
depositions  386.2 
deposits  23.11 
depressed  373.8 
depression  381.10 
depth  13.14   24.24   47.29   107.8 

157.20   183.6   208.28   262.2 


depth  (cont.)  295.9   402.24 
depths  56.29   104.16   157.6 

235.30   256.30 
derive  28.11 
derived  150.1 
derives  136.1 
derveeshes  131.28 
Derwent  54.24 
descendants  269.9   379.28 
descending  200.11   222.10 

253.29   254.28 
descends  105.16 
descent  8.1   202.8   260.29 

327.26 
descents  213.6 
describe  309.28   347.10   348.1 

377.5   413.7   413.8 
described  291.20   319.21 

331.17   379.12   382.6 
describes  26.19   94.12   163.8 

233.4   337.22   348.27 
describing  390.12 
description  31.22   110.2 

347.16   348.5   397.20 
descriptions  348.3 
desecrate  405.3 
desert  45.24   115.18   152.15 

153.25   155.19   208.26 

210.9   267.2   401.21   413.14 
deserted  177.3   177.22   236.14 

374.8 
deserters  115.22 
deserters'  115.23 
deserts  131.23   131.28   209.27 

403.9 
deserve  391.5 
deserves  148.6   294.18 
deserving  294.1 
design  93.7   108.5   266.23 
designed  177.28 
designs  74.13 
desire  75.7   204.29 
desolate  67.24   113.17   374.9 

391.24   392.3   405.18 
despair  73.5   133.18   304.5 

356.11 
despairing  36.8   286.6 
despising  53.7 
despot's  34.17 
dessert  308.9 
destination  223.14 
destined  150.2   254.9   408.9 
destinies  36.11   119.31   296.22 
destiny  36.15   146.12   182.5 

184.12   280.8   405.25 
destitute  350.14 
destroy  268.7 
destroyed  32.17   259.16 
destruction  32.11   268.4 
destructive  91.5 
desultoriness  336.14 
desultory  393.18 
detached  36.6 
detail  162.27 
details  339.29 
detain  393.12   399.21 
detains  221.2 
detect  24.1   39.20   94.24   133.7 

236.15   266.1   339.1   365.2 

381.3   386.6   416.13 
detected  61.9   218.23   350.12 
detects  160.31   350.9 
determination  341.30 
determined  191.23   342.23   388.4 


determines 


21 


distract 


determines  375.28 

deterred  370.18 

dethrone  67.18 

develop  408.29 

developed  154.1 

development  149.13   329.4 

developments  237.31 

develops  167.13 

devil  301.17 

devil-may-care  384.14 

devious  205.8 

devising  206.8 

devoted  89.11 

devotee  387.16 

devotees  377.29 

devotes  288.17 

devotional  159.15 

devotions  257.3 

devourest  129.31 

devouring  384.10 

devout  148.8 

dew  182.24   202.28   249.2   300.23 

354.5   356.18   357.12 
dews  42.17   86.12   87.2   106.19 

202.22   394.2 
dewy  39.18   134.24   199.6   201.5 
dexterous  25.19 
dexterously  49.8 
Dherma  Sastra  157.10 
diagonal  192.28 
dialect  367.28 
dials  340.22 
diameter  71.25   152.31   208.3 

262.1   262.15   262.26 
diametrically  272.16 
dictates  399.26 
dictionary  60.21   61.2 
did   #75 
didactic  392.9 
Dido  399.9 
die  7.5   11.21   31.19   34.22 

181.28   196.25   218.13   273.5 

304.22   314.18   355.13   361.16 

368.8   369.23 
died  22.30   58.27   109.5   168.11 

264.8   269.2   307.20   402.11 
dies  35.7   65.26   312.12   405.29 
diet  212.15   395.18 
difference  35.10   147.1   280.12 

315.5   340.21   364.6 
differences  287.8   300.17 
different  54.4   93.9   176.6 

190.4   195.14   302.14   392.20 

393.13 
difficult  120.2   192.29   298.1 

311.16 
difficulties  193.14   246.19 
difficulty  193.1   193.15   248.15 
diffused  376.5 
dig  160.28   211.2 
digest  216.16 
digested  29.22 
dignified  130.22 
dignify  387.14   405.8 
dignity  156.18   213.18   228.28 

264.11   327.23   331.26   366.21 

392.11   395.1 
digression  197.23   224.12 
dilemma  100.16   117.2 
dim  32.29   55.13   55.18   97.10 

97.23   118.15   118.17   156.22 

161.27   170.13   311.2   346.8 

411.17 
dimly  161.30   354.4   417.24 


dimple  262.30 

dimpled  179.10 

dimpling  28.29 

din  16.3   169.11   249.10   266.5 

314.25   331.22   336.14   394.20 

419.8 
dinner  165.24   226.27   235.14 

237.6  237.14   273.26 
dinner-table  257.5 
dint  99.18 

Diogenes  137.14 

dip  44.4   325.13 

dipped  44.10 

dipper  194.9   194.17   325.7 

dipping  213.1   245.19 

direct  13.14   67.7   67.9   215.17 

220.8   310.7   388.23 
directed  74.24   155.4   214.6 

254.22  343.3 

direction  48.1   116.18   191.19 

192.28   331.24 
directions  190.22 
directly  63.6   111.6   159.23 

174.23  191.23   194.4   196.27 

249.7  322.6   373.13 
directness  231.11   397.8 
directors  231.12 
directory  260.27 

dirty  77.22 

disappear  360.23 

disappeared  22.27   232.11   253.24 

274.2   274.18   391.13   417.2 

417.18   420.12 
disappears  372.29 
disappoint  27.22 
disappointed  151.25   272.13 

295.23 
disappointment  418.29 
disarmed  63.15 
disasters  77.5 
discernment  299.17   332.2 
discharge  12.7   259.28 
discharging  97.1 

discipline  108.29   143.4   388.23 
disclosures  330.27 
discomfited  63.13 
discourage  78.5 
discouraged  35.19   86.25 
discourse  105.28   217.6   275.28 
discourses  418.28 
discover  128.18   132.31   133.21 

149.20  210.30   235.28   315.25 

330.21  372.30   409.10   412.4 
discovered  22.13   59.14   60.16 

90.9   92.9   197.23   208.3 

275.4   309.20   389.30   413.18 
discoverer  279.10 
discoveries  100.25   367.3   388.7 

388.19 
discovers  94.29   285.6   397.7 
discovery  22.1   217.27   387.6 

387.30   388.17   389.31   390.12 

408.12 
discreet  204.5 
discretion  308.7 
discriminate  389.2 
discrimination  66.3   298.12 
discuss  230.3   275.27 
disease  75.16 
diseases  273.10   379.17 
disembark  246.12 
disgrace  286.26 
disgraced  77.14 
disguises  22.23   99.13 


disgust  237.7   329.8 
disgusting  77.17 
dish  325.17   414.12 
dishabille  191.30 
disheartening  77.16 
dishes  237.28 
dishonest  284.2   284.14 
disinterested  294.28 
disinterestedness  287.14 
disk  39.21   309.20 
dispatch  106.1   342.25 
dispense  182.9   297.9   392.17 
disperse  202.13 
dispersed  23.8   42.5   123.14 

294.14 
disperses  90.4   200.17 
displace  54.5 
displaced  418.14 
dispose  254.1   292.7   334.13 
disposed  283.7   339.8   391.15 
disposition  116.26   195.18 

205.23   274.9   400.1 
dispositions  281.29 
disproportion  420.10 
disproved  389.3 
dispute  158.17   159.9 
disputed  382.22 
disregard  292.26   293.5 
disregarded  380.15 
disregarding  398.16 
disregards  399.26 
disseminated  23.22 
dissent  327.18 

dissipated  155.25   376.11   408.13 
dissipation  221.6 
dissolved  29.7   87.6   353.2 
distance  4.18   8.16   37.29 

56.8   62.24   94.14   129.18 

163.30   163.30   170.14 

185.13  206.30   228.27   232.5 

271.14  274.14   275.6   325.6 

343.8  365.3   372.25   382.13 
413.17   413.19 

distances  191.13   226.23   257.13 
distant  6.12   10.9   11.5   18.26 
38.20   38.28   39.30   55.18 
87.22   116.13   116.31   122.2 

122.15  122.15   127.10   130.30 
150.23   155.24   157.30   160.21 
180.3   180.13   189.29   197.19 
200.28   202.9   211.10   215.18 
226.13   226.18   245.23   248.6 
250.28   257.13   260.21   275.11 
281.20   308.27   326.26   335.1 
336.12   342.19   343.6   353.2 

373.12  376.28   385.1   390.13 

405.16  417.28   418.6 
distilled  100.8 

distinct  24.9   45.13   45.21 
45.26   70.27   182.6   202.15 

364.13  386.20   400.23   401.22 
distinction  50.25   212.4 
distinctions  406.29 
distinctly  44.14   59.17   82.3 

158.1   299.18   372.23   400.25 
distinguish  29.27   100.22 

189.12   197.18   248.10   272.15 

283.9  289.13   322.15   327.27 
375.19 

distinguished  107.3   142.26 
177.7   203.25   214.30   355.6 
367.12   399.18   400.13 

distinguishing  222.20 

distract  367.19 


distracted 


22 


dryshod 


distracted  388.18 

distracting  239.10 

distributed  60.3 

district  40.10   85.15 

districts  209.25 

disturb  24.29   47.23   75.14 

92.14   135.3   159.26   230.8 

257.3   419.4 
disturbed  102.17   165.26   246.20 

354.1   380.31 
disturbing  245.18 
disturbs  404.27 
diurnal  383.10 
dive  117.21 
diverge  280.8 
diverged  191.22 
divert  90.22 
dives  206.12   420.9 
divested  58.6   109.24 
divide  13.18 
divided  35.6   205.5   261.26 

374.27   384.10 
divides  91.17   322.5 
divine  7.5   65.12   65.21   65.30 

65.31   100.13   129.28   165.16 

165.17   196.5   284.31   289.12 

315.15   327.15   365.7   376.5 

400.26   408.12   408.29 
diviner  294.5 

divinest  183.8   301.27   329.19 
diving  323.28 
divinities  65.9 
divinity  79.25 
divisions  340.23 
do   #127 
dock  272.4 
doctors  181.28 
doctor's  272.24 
doctrine  77.30 
doctrines  70.29   7,1.10   137.14 

159.2 
dodge  167.9 
dodged  206.17   208.23 
Dodona  419.10 
doer  333.12 
does   #78 
dog  20.26   20.31   40.16   40.19 

180.14   216.5   257.14   312.21 
dogs  40.21   40.29   205.2   214.28 

219.12 
dogwood  319.25 
doing  133.19   136.14   146.20 

262.10 
dollars  221.12   311.6   311.8 

382.26 
dolphin  28.9   257.18 
dolphins  58.21 
domestic  119.10   134.2   156.11 

156.13   256.5   393.1   396.5 
domesticity  336.24 
done  33.16   77.6   82.14   94.8 

94.11   94.30   107.14   107.27 

108.1   111.9   119.27   122.14 

133.19   145.27   145.30   148.24 

174.19   180.10   187.15   216.15 

220.11  312.4   312.5   315.8 
330.23   331.15   332.25   341.16 

343.12  351.2   362.28   402.22 
420.2 

Donne  315.15 

donned  358.25 

don't  6.9   131.20   366.31 

doomed  195.14   262.9   389.14 

door  12.23   39.5   119.9   180.3 


door  (cont.)  196.17   196.20 

215.1   245.18   256.28   259.16 

357.19  392.27 

doors  11.4   111.8   131.16 

156.21  215.27   216.5   269.16 
385.4   392.24   403.16 

doorway  215.22   256.25 
dormant  101.26   284.7 
dormice  101.25 
dormouse  101.29 
dorsal  25.16   25.30   26.4 
dory  12.18 

dotage  49.19   157.18 
double  245.23 
doubled  113.15   254.16 
double-edged  236.22 
double-entendres  132.7 
doubt  72.2   84.20   93.31   97.22 
121.6   123.3   149.28   165.8 

176.22  181.15   181.20   182.14 
197.12   212.6   218.8   250.1 
254.9   271.5   295.20   315.25 
364.6   375.24   381.4 

doubted  223.31 

doubts  264.28 

Dowlat  Shah  415.14 

down   #138 

downstream  336.4 

down-stream  34.13   43.2   105.17 

226.16   260.10   271.20   307.24 
downward  91.30   111.11   353.18 

354.27   357.2   361.22   376.23 

414.1 
downy  43.20   407.4 
dozen  24.9   34.25   192.29   206.6 

210.14   250.22 
dozens  28.31 
Dracut  81.25 
draft  38.15 
drag  79.23 

dragged  318.16   333.21 
dragging  87 . 22 
drags  246.7 
drain  261.28 
drained  10.28 
draining  92.29   131.3 
drains  85.25 
drama  118.3   218.5   281.5   281.17 

285.29   341.2 
dramatists  281.16 
drank  38.14   194.8   194.17   216.4 

216.6   302.11 
drapery  45.14   355.12   407.7 
draught  127.13   151.10   325.27 

400.22 
draughts  32.30 
draw  74.22   87.19   111.6   229.28 

230.14   289.22   320.10   351.13 

353.19 
drawers  355.4 
drawing  62.22   222.18   351.17 

391.9   420.22 
drawing-room  320.13 
drawn  26.21   30.1   64.30   94.22 

102.1   110.6   213.16   252.17 

262.9   283.13   353.30   385.14 
draws  341.7   388.18 
Drayton  69.1 
dreaded  290.22 
dream  6.16   36.21   55.27   72.17 

78.29   145.31   159.18   165.20 

183.8   291.26   311.31   315.7 

315.20  337.22   391.16 
dreamed  78.28   315.4   316.3 


dreamers  101.25   256.28 
dreaming  39.22   49.27   142.5 

180.24   188.3   280.27   281.5 

281.18 
dreamless  120.7 
dream-like  59.11 
dreams  17.18   58.3   61.18 

118.24   119.30   120.8 

149.17   198.10   247.4   254.23 

286.28   315.11   315.14   315.18 

315.23      315.27      316.1       316.4 

354.21   383.31   406.6   406.12 
drear  344.23 
dreariness  374.16 
dreary  210.28   211.9   211.14 
drenched  320.5 
dress  109.19   149.29   155.23 

329.31   368.24 
dressed  342.8   360.26   402.1 
drew  41.3   128.7   214.27 

361.26   416.12 
dried  12.9   52.2   70.16   202.24 

203.6 
driest  5.1 
drift  217.8 
drifting  197.2   199.3   202.3 

210.9  210.17 
driftwood  382.28 

drink  156.17   215.31   305.1 

402.6 
drinks  86.4 
dripping  12.12   202.28   320.8 

356.18 
drive  20.27   37.9   116.5   298.19 
driven  8.7   59.15   204.21 

344.7   379.27 
drives  103.11 
driving  17.20   24.28   76.34 

245.13   334.10 
drizzling  12.7   200.14   200.15 

318.31 
Dr.  Johnson  69.6 
drooping  18.25   254.29 
drop  221.9   338.28   396.3 
dropped  12.16   17.26   18.23 

326.27 
dropping  361.22 
drops  221.8   317.4   320.4 

339.29 
drought  54.19   277.28   314.24 

323.26   323.29 
drove  49.7   52.10   168.24 

417.15 
droves  359.18 
drowned  16.3   314.25 
drowsy  41 . 3 
drudgery  141.11 
drum  181.4   183.23   183.25 

185.31 
drummed  181.11 
drummer  181.10   181.15 
drumming  160.22 
drunk  360.28 
dry  4.29   10.12   21.28   25.7 

31.6   36.30   70.16   70.17 

156.4   194.8   194.18   235.15 

262.17   318.30   319.22   327.6 

335.10  351.14   367.16 
Dryads  86.15 

Dryden  391.26 
drying  134.5 
dryness  320.3 
dry-rotted  70.17 
dryshod  320.1 


Duan  of  Ca-Lodin 


23 


elaborate 


154.4 

185.10 

36.21 

53.5 

250.15 

250.20 

418.27 

399.21 

399.30 

Duan  of  Ca-Lodin  369.9 

duck  151.3   307.23   307.28   358.27 

385.11 
ducking  6.10 
ducks  4.14   5.17   6.14 
Dudleian  136.1 
due  67.11   142.31 

335.16   381.5 
dug  23.25   264.20 
dull  13.26   30.1 

108.13   200.25 

283.9   399.28 
dullest  59.12 
dullness  304.23 
dull-red  18.18 
dull-yellow  18.28 
duly  33.9   212.15 
dumb  24.4   36.5   112.15   263.26 

408.10 
Dunbar  of  Scotland  396.27 
dungeons  78.10 
Dunstable  64.24   113.25   114.20 

114.24  123.18   123.18   124.28 

128.25  174.6   174.26   174.28 
175.5   177.4   178.28   208.22 

durability  141.15   312.6 
durable  132.12   265.24   290.23 
during  33.28   36.9   37.4   108.25 

194.23   204.21 

235.27   303.10 
duskiest  224.11 
dusky  163.31 
dust  97.13   163. 

226.19   229.7 

264.7  265.4 

285.8  333.22 
340.13   365.1 

dust-hole  363.23 
dusty  26.4   204.20   226.20 
Dutch  90.23   191.10 
duties  12.6   80.24   146.25 

281.31   292.27   293.6 
duty  146.18   248.4   349.2 
dwarf  8.15   19.15 
dwell  36.2   100.17 


229.31 

235.10 

319. 1C 

346.5 

11   199. 

6   223.3 

245.1 

249.10 

265.26 

266.24 

340.9 

340.10 

395.30 

212.8   275.1 

420.15 
dweller  199.1 
dwellers  10.9 
dwelling  52.4 

191.17   214. 


124.12   141.1 
336.17   407.27 


407.9 

11.6   29.6   255.13 
130.12   149.4 
.7   214.15   308.24 

dwelling-place  84.28 

dwellings  8.21   81.31   169.30 
204.13   256.10   256.23   257.21 
269.7   342.14 

dwells  26.14 
401.21 

dwelt  127.20 
267.21 

dye  271.27 

dying  134.6 
238.19   320. 

dynasties  160.5   257.4 

each  39.23   39.24   49.2   56.4 
89.21   94.28   99.4   117.31 
123.5   159.11   167.11   190.4 
192.2   221.17   221.22   225.20 
231.16   235.13   236.31   254.9 
274.26   282.13   286.27   286.28 
287.9   304.2   322.3   332.8 
335.26   346.23   361.25   361.26 
375.19   384.6   389.28   408.13 
413.1   420.4 

eager  245.22 


61.23 

104.10 

127.28 

226.22 

183.26 
.7 

218.28 

ear  40.11   109.4   131.18 
185.17   253.27   295.7 
364.1   398.31   406.22 
417.24 

Earl  of  Bridgewater  79.6 

earlier  35.16   42.8   157 
217.22   393.9 

earliest  21.10   34.11 
358.1   395.20 

early  24.27  49.24 
72.5  72.7  91.6 
107.11   121.3   122.5 

197.16   200.30 
218.21   225.23 


131.11 
303.8 
409.1 


.9      201.5 


97.11 


56.25 
91.8 


58.12 
92.1 
136.28 
212.25 
247.5 


251.1   268.26   343.14 
379.12   396.22   396.24 


185.10 

218.18 

249.1 

361.21 

400.24 
earn  324.17   326.16   409.23 
earned  115.14   141.10   375.24 
earnest  135.24   226.20   279.10 

296.5   309.5   333.8   391.11 

392.16   396.2 
earnestly  162.29   290.14   360.21 

418.18 
earnestness  333.5 
ears  41.4   73.5   84.21   181.12 

182.22   182.28   187.19   203.27 

238.19   295.26   331.24   408.14 

419.21 

211.30 
5   10.7   23.24 
54.10   55.25 
71.3   78.19   86.17 

100.5  102.10   103.9 
111.10   121.1   128.22 
133.24   138.26   141.28 

150.14   156.2   158.4 
159.13   160.17   160.25 

168.6  185.24   189.22 
197.26   198.20   198.27 

250.5   253.3 
326.30   333.23 


.28 

10. 


53.29 

59.16 


353.7   353.11 
359.5   362.25 
377.25   379.1! 
383.4   383.25 

405.6   408.24 


285.3 


earshot  157, 
earth  6.27 

50.22 

55.29 

97.29 

104.19 

129.14 

146.3 

158.28 

167.6 

190.14 

199.8   199.15 

259.15  280.3 

336.8  347.24 

353.18  355.11 

367.14  367.15 
380.30   381.11 

402.9  403.23 
411.31 

earth-born  406.8 
earthly  138.20   177.4 
earthquake  336.18 
earth' s  416.27 
earthy  218.10 
ease  110.25   335.25 
easier  409.10 
easily  28.27   109.11 

159.16  195.5   209. 
290.8   301.10   334.13 
399.30   402.7   403.4 

east  44.9   59.22   59.23 
85.28   97.11   118.30 

149.19  149.21   150.1 
157.13   158.15   185.10 

199.15  204.8   227.16 
309.7   323.30   361.29   373.1 
373.3   385.17   405.1 

eastern  155.15   166.1   199.3 

244.30   309.26   341.3 
Eastern  141.20   158.25 
East  India  Company  142.17 
East  Indians  43.17 
eastward  202.8 
easy  36.6   36.10   98.30   100.22 

132.12   220.22   287.10   312.20 


142.28 
I      239.16 
393.8 


66.24 

130.11 
152.15 

197.30 
250. 31 


397.15 

56.17 
.17 
345.11 


.20   93.5 
.15   407.27 
228.1 

83.26 
.11 


48.20   397.9 


5   252.14   258.9 


.14   166.1 

27  236.25 

19  300.7 

16  402.7 


easy  (cont.)  354.17 
eat  129.29   131.17   1 

194.22  210.22   325 
eaten  150.25   304.25 

354.7 
eating  309.25 
eats  129.23 
eaves  40.6 
ebb  128.14   290.24 
echo  49.31   65.24   78 

336.17  363.11   407 
echoed  81.26   221.8 

417.27 
echoes  14.8   109.5   1 

238.18  256.25   336 
echoing  165.22 
eclipse  336.19 
eclipsed  359.23   376. 
eclipses  134.8   164.1 
economies  179.5 
economy  24.14 
ecstasy  97.9 
eddies  106.6 
eddy  28.8   127 
eddying  119.20 
edge  8.20   43.15   153 

203.17   205.2   210. 
246.5   247.15   249. 

329.23  358.2   377. 
416.15 

edges  26.4 
edict  139.5 
edicts  362.24 
edit  150.11 
edited  72.14 
edition  307.32 
editorials  194.27 
Edmund  Halley  112.11 
educate  408.28 
educated  197.10   231. 
education  109.21   129 

297.9  348.25   349. 
Edward  the  Third  396. 
Edwin  of  Northumbria 
eel  30.2   30.6   31.1 

31.9   167.24 
effect  45.7   191.12 

268.8   294.16   347. 
effective  149.30   384 
effectively  110.10 
effects  134.9   299.15 
effectual  116.21   141.13 
efficacy  63.14 
efficient  110.23 
effort  59.11   109.8   109.12 

116.10  235.18 
egg  31.13   110.28 
eggs  131.1 

Egypt  97.12   160.21 

266.29   416.31 
Egyptian  78.19   333.1 
Egyptians  94.11 
eight  175.12   189.29 

260.2   262.26   273. 
eighteen  67.28   342.4 
eighth  8.1 
either  18.7   43.22   5 

94.1   94.7   135.14 

192.8   262.11   282. 

309.11  311.29   344 
either ' s  273 . 3 
eked  107.13 
eking  354.20 
elaborate  351.17 


19 

.8   283.14 
5 

14 

163.14 
31.2 

201.1 

18   349.12 

.29 


265. 

28 

5 

251 

.8 

19 

390. 

14 

379.29 

3.23 

60 

.15 

154 

.7 

21 

301. 

15 

.21 

388 

.13 

elapsed 


24 


epistle 


elapsed  34.26   233.29 
elastic  45.6 
elasticity  400.21 
elbow  197.20 
Elbridge  359.3 
elder  342.11 
Eleazer  Davis  124.26 
elecampane  272.6 
Election-birds  56.30 
electric  36.3   185.27   206.10 

304.27 
electricity  292.28 
electuary  400.23 
elegance  327.24 
elegant  301.29 
element  25.21   25.27   26.7 

26.22   26.25   28.6   48.13 

204.4   356.9   394.1 
elementary  100.22 
elements  12.21   13.10   34.9 

100.20  156.5   156.15   160.19 

212.11  250.2   251.29   312.25 
326.17   367.13   402.26   412.29 

elevate  165.17   387.14 
elevated  155.17   196.30   240.6 

282.15 
elevation  99.25   190.17   202.12 

365.15 
elevations  190.4 
eleven  125.19 
Elisha's  381.24 

elm  52.8   190.31   228.18   405.2 
elms  20.2   44.31   227.23   227.27 

235.12  257.28   358.10 
elm-shaded  169.22 
Elnathan  359.2 
eloquent  289.7   419.6 

else  5.21   22.29   22.29   27.18 
55.6   87.25   94.9   94.30 
136.17   163.26   230.8   233.1 

249.21  262.12   285.9   299.30 
311.16   324.7   376.6   380.14 
419.22 

elsewhere  32.20   55.28   117.10 
169.2   187.14   226.1   287.3 

eluding  278.7 

Elysian  fields  407.24 

embalmed  67.23 

embankment  102.18 

embark  247.6 

embarked  14.2   17.17   151.17 

embers  249.2 

emblem  11.17 

embodied  129.9 

embodies  97.8 

emboweled  2  37.6 

embrace  83.2   135.4 

embraced  49.4   114.21   199.25 
294.8 

embryo  201.5 

emerges  28.5 

eminence  38.18   82.1   318.11 
400.4 

eminences  271.14 

eminently  394.17 

emissaries  37.14   46.7 

emitted  208.2 

emotion  158.5 

emphasis  106.28   108.9   109.29 

275.13  330.6 
emphatic  177.25   388.30 
emphatically  419.28 
employed  247.29   319.11 
employer  208.12 


employment  74.30   130.29   220.24 
221.26   257.22   288.15   405.8 
407.7 

employments  220.27 

emptied  309.8 

empties  4.6   28.16   90.5   203.23 
232.2   259.17   361.1 

empty  25.1   122.3   216.4   225.22 
226.2   273.20 

emptying  259.22   353.6 

emulate  109.28 

enabled  335.2 

enact  360.13 

enacted  281.6 

encamped  186.4 

encampment  353.24 

encased  196.13 

enchanted  213.13 

encircling  385.31 

encompass  364.25 

encounter  30.14   80.26 

encountered  278.8 

encounters  81.6 

encouraged  202.16   332.26   356.8 
414.27 

encouragement  308.26 

encouraging  153.17 

encroachment  39.7 

encroachments  162.30 

end  30.25   32.8   59.16   75.9 
79.28   110.7   133.23   141.4 
167.5   169.16   197.21   205.28 
221.15   221.17   223.9   223.9 
225.15   236.26   236.30   289.28 
294.19   304.16   360.19   400.7 
402.14 

endeavor  101.20   133.29   163.25 
275.23   291.14   420.1 

endeavored  265.8   391.6 

endeavoring  263.1   310.22   318.4 

endeavors  133.25 

ended  118.7   416.16 

endless  159.9   222.20   289.26 

endlessly  339.2 

endow  109.22 

ends  29.24   340.6   374.27 

endurance  311.15   362.26 

endure  109.25 

endures  53.8 

enduring  60.13   149.30   177.28 
367.7   405.15   418.7 

Endymion  58.2  5 

enemies  292.9   305.5   368.7 

enemy  95.21   126.18   139.7   163.1 

265.1  268.5   282.24   342.25 
energy  109.9   127.2   222.28 

341.30 
engaged  108.12   150.15   168.13 

174.2  175.23   288.16   391.19 
engagement  311.26 

engineer  380.3   380.15 

England  3.5   8.31   65.27   102.26 
396.2   396.11 

England's  148.21 

English  27.24   36.31   37.14   49.20 
52.14   52.17   52.23   53.20 
53.23   54.21   84.2   106.31 
107.29   114.10   148.28   155.22 
155.27   204.26   239.16   246.25 
267.25   268.2   268.6   341.29 
342.5   342.22   343.1   345.16 
345.17   367.2   391.21   391.27 
392.21   393.6   393.10   393.15 
394.27   395.5   395.20   396.22 


English  (cont.)  397.14   397.21 

398.3  399.3   420.2 
Englishman  392.26   392.28 
engraved  197.18 
engrosses  108.19 
enhance  320.9 

enhanced  18.1   200.30   336.9 

406.13 
enhances  24.12 
enjoy  73.4   118.8   123.30 

126.6   262.19   296.6   375.24 
enjoyed  20.18   99.2   129.25 

201.4  309.27 
enjoying  86.6   199.6 
enjoyment  99.4   310.5   329.7 
enjoys  349.15   373.30 
enlighten  218.31   376.9 
enlightened  419.15 
ennoble  48.16 

ennobling  298.18 

ennui  130.28 

enough  21.17   22.12   35.11   55.1 
67.8   70.17   71.31   94.23 
101.17   101.21   105.7   110.30 
111.15   112.23   129.26   136.26 

164.9  167.22   181.16   205.23 
209.13   213.26   218.10   223.13 
230.19   245.14   256.24   259.30 

283.6  283.7   287.2   288.25 
294.28   324.17   330.24   344.27 

346.10  347.19   357.15   372.14 

375.22  388.22   389.18   413.23 

413.23  413.23   414.11 
enshrined  400.6 

ensign  168.9 

ensuing  138.16 

entangled  29.26 

enter  35.26   190.8 

entered  62.18   192.26   215.19 

245.7  311.27   327.17 
entering  24.31   85.17 
enterprise  11.5   69.17   119.22 

258.12 
enterprises  14.3   119.16   120.4 

174.3   323.13 
enterprising  32.9 
enters  4.1   77.11 
entertain  281.15 
entertained  98.29   99.6   108.14 

215.3   308.12   322.13   381.18 
entertainment  191.28   246.16 

372.14 
entertainments  302.1 
enthusiasm  94.24   111.29   132.26 

248.9   397.23 
entire  43.27   331.27   367.18 
entirely  258.5   376.5 
entitled  290.18 
entrails  236.9 

entrance  41.4   116.19   119.7 
entrapping  22.20 
entreating  53.31 
entreaty  303.28 
entries  34.2 
entry  12.4 
enumerate  77.4 
envelop  400.18 
enveloped  101.27   188.14 
envied  221.4 
Epeians  96.22 
ephemeral  405.13 
epic  104.12 
episode  148.1 
epistle  114.6 


epistolary 


25 


expanded 


54.2 

54.8   67.12 

158.25 

158.28   158.29 

164.18 

237.9   366.22 

419.20 

15   367 

.3 

.30 

.5   392.7   419.18 

36.19 

58.15   77.15 

151.7 

158.32   216.5 

2  54.2 

278.9   311.21 

329.7 

340.16   406.7 

15   229 

.29 

.27   51 

.3   197.5 

epistolary  107.22 

epitaph  178.4   178.9   178.16 

368.16 
epitaphs  178.17 
epitome  21.9 
epoch  372.31 
epochs  129.16 
equable  290.23 
equal  37.7   60.17   62.31 

80.26   88.14   101.8   190.28 

285.5   287.12   287.23   287.27 

287.27   295.19   297.2   310.23 

365.15   397.16   398.19 
equality  287.22 
equally  40.25   117.10   165.15 

282.1   311.11   364.5   373.16 

387.22   389.15 
equals  205.11 
equinoctial  278.9 
equipoise  338.14 
era  21.12 

102.25 

164.5 

368.23 
eras  310.15 
erase  100 
erasing  6 
ere  11.21 

111.12 

251.31 

326.4 

409.28 
erect  25. IE 
erected  4 

368.15  420.21 
erecting  323.15 
erections  292.26 
erring  65.19 
error  65.1 
escape  117.23   130.25   168.30 

206.9   330.22   342.23 

343.29   392.5 
escaped  72.7   89.26   32 

345.4 
escapes  323.29   349.17 
escaping  174.26   342.5 
especial  38.12 
especially  50.31   193.2 

308.22  360.31 
Esprit  des  Lois  127.21 
essayed  14.30 
essays  102.5   281.12 
essence  141.22   403.4 
essences  71.12 
essential  60.14 

213.17   256.11 
402.31 
essentially  54.4 

329.16  397.21 
establish  81.  3 
established  81.9 

289.1   290.31 
establishing  293.19 
estate  331.25 
esteem  272.7   286.31 
esteemed  282.18 
estimate  363.6 
estimating  396.26 
etc.  59.6   96.31 
eternal  141.5   198.26 

383.21   390.16   401 

409.23  412.23 
eternity  111.2   158.2 


45.1 


138.6 
367.8 

149. 
398 

29 
.15 

65.21 

292 

.30 

32.12 

146.19 
293.17 

394.26 
i   203.7 
374.18 

285.7 
30 


328.25 


347.2 


17.19 
45.6 


21.4 
46.6 


ether  157.7 
ethereal  20.4   43.28 

239.20   303.6 
ethereally  271.11 
ethical  386.29 
ethics  61.9   387.11 
Ethiopians  336.16 
Etruria  265.27 
Etruscan  176.27 
Etruscans  360.1 
eulogy  331.23 
Eumenides  59.5 
Euphemus  258.18 
Euphrates  3.2   380.22 
Europe  23.9   148.15   149.8 

149.22   191.5   253.27   254.22 
European  148.18   148.23 
Eurypylus  258.17 
evanescent  239.20   277.25 
evaporated  156.30 
evaporation  37.2 
evaporations  203.28 
eve  87.3   376.2 
Eve  346.13   346.25 
Evelyn's  55.2 
even   #169 
evening  12.22 

38.15   39.1 

106.20 

133.20 

179.9 

249.5 

309.22 

344.26 

394.3 
evenings  157.2 
event  315.4 
events  134.7   212.20   310.13 

310.18   311.25   347.19   412.16 
ever  6.26   8.5   12.13   25.4 

29.5   30.10   6! 

90.4   113.3   1] 

149.15   176.22 

192.17   208.24 

246.3   249.20 

273.5  273.6   ; 
285.12   287.1 

291.2  293.23 
323.20   325.30 
333.12   337.3 

412.3  412.29 
ever-busy  180.31 
ever-changing  222.20 
ever-flowing  10.13 
evergreen  107.15   339.16 
evergreens  374.20 
ever-increasing  119.28 
everlasting  70.24   71.30 

182.3   300.30   367.17 
everlastingly  70.23 
ever-shabby  360.25 
ever-wakeful  316.2 
every   #82 

everything  9  3.4   2  30.2 
everywhere  5.11   2  3.22 

131.6  142.6   177.12 
262.29   272.24 


108.26 
161.8 
194.23 
254.11 
309.28 
344.28 
416.26 


109.3 

161.13 

199.11 

257.29 

319.28 

353.28 

417.5 

239.21 


27.3 

57.2 
118.25 

170.10 
200.7 
303.16 
340.14 
393.30 
420.17 


343.9 

29.5   30.10   65.26   71.1   79.20 

90.4   113.3   116.18   117.28 

16 

149.15   176.22   185.25   189.24 

192.17   208.24   214.3   231.27 

246.3   249.20   253.27   271.12 

273.5   273.6   280.26   281.8 

285.12   287.1   288.16   288.19 

247.30 

291.2   293.23   300.31   305.7 

323.20   325.30   329.17   329.22 

333.12   337.3   362.9   401.17 

412.3   412.29   419.3   419.20 

208.17 
336.19 
398.7 
evidence  40.29 
265.3 


141.10 


273.30 
78.24 
196.29 
281.9 


372.31   386.15   397.25 


332.6   340.11   411.27   411.27 


104.25   128.30 
310.2   348.14   418.20 
evidently  333.4 

evil  77.9   119.31   146.10   193.15 
195.20   209.4   323.27   328.26 


348.30 


260.10 


156.7 

397.18 

5 

414.17   418, 

,11 

4   63.9   214. 

.15 

344.4   345.8 

204.27   210. 

.27 

132.24 


evil  (cont.)  387.3 
exact  340.4   347.16 
exactly  73.3   175.4   197.25 

287.28   347.11   350.22   380.12 

380.28   381.1 
exaggerate  47.27   193.14   202.16 

202.20   231.8 
exaggerated  388.30 
exaggeration  239.27 

395.26 
exaggerations  387.22 
examine  25.12   71.7 
examined  248.2   308.2 
examining  127.7   249.5 
example  72.2   262.31 
exceed  347.7 
exceeding  398.5 
exceedingly  25.25 
exceeds  329.1 
excellence  106.26 

414.18 
excellences  347.1! 
excellent  414.13 
except  33.12   62 

247.9   343.31 

387.23 
excepted  148.30 
excepting  118.23 

342.31 
excerpt  163.13 
excess  55.5   370.24 
exchange  56.20   281.21 
exchanged  392.24 
excite  40.22   252.4 
excited  236.12 
excitement  132.22 
exciting  4.20 
exclaimed  60.9 
exclaims  369 . 5 
exclamation-points  177.25 
exclusive  210.12   294.12   294.13 
exclusively  61.16   74.9 
exclusiveness  148.23 
excursion  81.11   382.19 
excursions  173.21   271.29 
excusable  14.1 
excuse  299.23 
execute  135.27 
execution  111.7 
executors  135.30 
exempted  12 . 5 
exercise  220.3 

344.5   387.9 
exert  65.13 
exerted  141.29 
exhalation  105.23 
exhaust  420.7 
exhausted  383.1 
exhibit  124.15   265.17 
exhibited  7.31   390.19 
exhibiting  308.12 
exhibits  340.9   367.8 
exhortations  40.23 
exist  33.5   130 

263.7   285.10 
existed  149.16 
existence  12.22 

330.18   405.15 
existing  21.9   99.7 
exists  183.22   224.19   266.27 

287.14   293.7   386.14 
ex-minister  134.18 
expand  381.7   396.8   400.11 
expanded  59.23   238.3   413.6 


289.5   301.27 


162.12 


7   173 

.17 

294.7 

300. 

.17 

86.30 

102.2 

133, 

.27 

expanding 


26 


falls 


expanding  201.1 
expanse  4.15   386.1 
expansion  402.4 
expansive  299.14 
expect  24.10   105.22 
210.29   284.8   285. 


165.10 
3   287.19 


363.26   387.5   388.10   405.26 

405.27 
expectations  190.11   311.4 
expected  90.21   162.26   193.5 

217.21   218.17   295.1   295.24 

295.25   308.22 
expecter  295.26 

expecting  226.30   283.29   296.26 
expects  105.16   138.20   155.14 
expediency  138.2  3 
expedient  138.31   391.9 
expedients  138.29 
expedition  61.1   137.10   307.30 
expended  281.1 
expense  37.7   95.10   101.9 

224.6   225.14   263.24 
expenses  303.22 
expensive  362.11 
experience  54.2   72.28   79.2   79.2 

98.2   102.1   107.12   107.16 

108.6   108.26   111.20   127.25 


145.29   153.21 
158.5   162.27 
204.20   231.2 


130.13  134.20 
156.1   156.31 
183.8   193.14 

250.14  275.24 
310.19   320.3 
333.30   335.20 
389.27   389.29 

experienced  6.17 

304.24   391.13 
experiences  227.8 

418.7 
experiencing  117.16 
experiment  48.15   117.1 
explain  163.26   300.21 
explained  382.24 
explanation  295.13 
explanatory  218.26 
exploit  136.2 
explore  11.8   66.26   161.29 

169.24 
explored  32.22 
explorers  322.23 
exploring  307.16 
export  251.10 
expose  79.14 
exposed  25.3 

210.11  213 
exposure  222. 
express  61.11 


289.28 
326.23 
389.12 


277.25 
326.18 
354.15 
413.10 
22.9   53.4 
406.4 
310.14   354.13 


308.21 
300.28 


300.26   300.26 


152.30   156.4 
9 

300.14   350.2 
80.28   337.8 
351.21   364.16   386.23 
expressed  195.2   239.23   365.26 


369.8   377.20 
expresses  69.6 

399.5 
expressing  274.8 
expression  108.8 

111.21   149.30 

365.28  400.14 
expressions  59.26 
expressive  25.26 
expressly  406.11 
extant  58.13  132 
extemporaneous  332.5 
extend  212.12  405.7 
extended  21.2   118.19 

225.8   323.19 
extending  206.7 


386.26   399.3 
167.12   183.19 


109.18 

111.16 

350.27 

364.10 

142.2 

350.16 

63.16 

295.16 

18   395 

.20 

32.26 

391.5 
195.10 


extensive  189.9 

271.16 
extent  60.11   89 

286.5   294.10 
exterminated  124.11 
extinct  3.11 
extol  328.25 
extra  334.12 
extract  133.29 

362.18 
extracted  92.28   231.28 
extracts  147.20 
extraneous  387.7 
extravagance  186.1 
extravagant  290.30 
extremely  30.7   96.22 

379.19 
extremities  65.8   78.7 
exuberance  107.21 
eye  20.4   21.1   29.16 
63.12   63.18 
105.11 
167.1 
239.25 
250.18 
266.1 
386.4 


205.15   208.26 


9   209.9   261.23 
329.13   366.20 

124.20 

232.10 


236.9 


failing  278 
fails  54.18 

413.17 
failure  273 
fain  57.13 

160.24   1 

221.8 
faint  14.16 

55.18 

147.6 


54.19      350.21 

4 

100.7      102.3 

3.23      216.21 

290.25      330.10 

2      39.31 

130.30 

191.4 


106.17 


47.31 
63.19 
157.16      164.19 
180.27      198.7 

248.7  249.20 
250.20      254.7 

285.8  319.12 
402.25      409.1 


48.26 
103.10 
164.20 
204. 
250.15 
257.17 
383.10 
411.15 
eyes  13.19   26.5   30.29   37.3 
48.3   48.16   66.24   80.26 
80.28   81.4   118.17   147.4 

153.19   161.30   164.14 
170.13   173.27   192.3 

220.28   256.12   299.13 
308.4   309.19   335.16 

373.19   388.11   406.26 


407.12 
38.2   39.31   40.8 
59.11   130.30   138.5 
185.13   191.4   199.11 

210.27  226.4  238.18  254.19 
257.10  266.7  280.23  281.26 
317.1   331.23   364.10   411.25 

411.28  418.21 
fainter  310.18   381.10 
faintest  40.5   278.13   3 

328.25   403.7 
fainting  362.26 
faintly  34.10   199.14   2 
219.1   223.14   280.11 
310.4 
faint-singing  344.8 
fair  45.21   50.24   87.29 
157.14   157.31   158.6 
164.2   194.1   2 
226.30   227.23 
273.20   277.27 
293.9   301.3   3 
335.23   337.20 
360.12 


16.1 


01.1 
280.28 


152.17 

170.3 

218.25 

300.5 

337.20 

408.16 
eying  48.27 
fable  58.8   58.14   59.9   60.30 

67.12   71.20   259.1   395.26 
fabled  217.25 
fablers  281.16 
fables  58.25   61.8   61.21 
fabulous  28.6   60.12   153.24 

173.26   223.10   278.12   344.20 


361.15 

,31   48.18   158. 
204.19   291.2 


164.1 

222.15 

259.4 

285.6 

334.26 

359.23 

417.6 
fairer  19 

185.25 

407.25 
fairest  48.20 

239.2   257.27   418.7 
Fair  Haven  Bay  224.1 
fairies  355.10   356.19 
fairly  81.16   85.16   220 

327.17 
fairness  414.11 
fairs  358.28 
fairy  182.24   362.23 
fairyland  45.15   173 
fairy-land  379.8 


156.26 
158.6 
00.10 
255.16 
278.7 
28.16 
346.1 
406.3 

7 
321.31 


160.23   182.29 


.19 


.16 


209.3 


face  5.17   6.27 

18.17   65.23 

fairy-like  81.28 

66.24   81.1   81 

.8   104. 

7   158.19 

faith  35.31   79.1   79.18   79.19 

161.13   229.33 

252.15 

257.7 

131.31   138.1   150.10   155.2 

272.30   334.10 

403.13 

184.11   231.11   289.6   298.20 

faces  20.4   20.29 

37.24 

226.20 

310.3   317.7   318.28   366.28 

265.12   357.15 

372.10 

384.14 

387.18 

fact  55.10   72.15 

84.27 

107.16 

faithful  309.5   333.29   388.14 

145.29   161.22 

161.24 

161.25 

393.21 

162.11   163.12 

182.6 

182.8 

faithfully  47.25   135.28   347.29 

224.18   264.10 

265.17 

296.11 

347.30 

323.31   324.1 

326.12 

333.12 

faiths  67.3 

387.12   388.17 

Falkland  Isles  151.14 

factories  32.7   32.21   36.2 

fall  26.2   42.9   54.14   62.17 

89.26   169.23 

78.25   78.25   86.26   89.23 

factory  260.8   324.21 

99.22   157.1   163.1   185.21 

facts  92.28   161. 

18   231 

27 

203.30   206.25   220.5   237.3 

275.26   347.7 

387.20 

387.23 

256.9   262.22   311.18   333.1 

387.23   387.27 

389.2 

389.3 

338.26   357.16   357.28   358.19 

389.11   389.17 

389.18 

363.21   391.29 

faculties  57.10 

146.11 

193.9 

fallen  60.28   65.20   116.16 

284.6   301.27 

401.21 

227.2   304.24   350.28   377.25 

faculty  408.13 

falleth  220.6 

fade  310.1 

falling  37.11   86.25   117.20 

faded  17.30 

181.3   203.24   317.4   338.30 

fagots  228.24   392.30 

376.25 

fail  10.30   40.2 

55.26 

132.9 

falls  13.3   31.15   61.28   82.12 

199.12   218.20 

251.24 

272.14 

88.18   89.15   89.20   169.23 

312.8   332.28 

340.18 

361.12 

203.26   206.28   207.14   208.18 

failed  98.10   324 

.24   329.29 

247.27   248.14   251.1   252.6 

falls  (cont, 


27 


field 


falls  (cont.)  252.16   256.7 

259.27  260.2   261.10   261.20 
269.4   273.12   303.8   322.5 

338.18  339.9   344.1   376.1 

406.22  418.11 

Falls  of  Amoskeag  259.23   337.18 
false  60.12   93.29   107.16 

178.16   284.2   291.3   304.16 

331.28  388.28   398.30 
falsehood  328.27   331.26   395.25 
falsehoods  78.30 

falsely  296.30 

falseness  331.27 

fame  3.3   10.14   86.7   89.29 
100.7   123.30   177.28   178.16 
213.13   264.21   363.5   363.6 

366.19  369.2   396.16 
fames  238.22 

familiar  19.13   20.6   20.8   22.21 
33.6   56.6   62.28   111.20 

156.9  206.22   210.16   278.2 

281.4  319.24   320.11   329.31 

330.5  372.17   372.21   397.29 
398.28 

familiarity  275.11 

familiarize  330.22 

familiarly  25.14   192.5 

families  177.7 

family  24.6  60.1  71.19  71.28 
108.13  284.24  292.5  294.18 
302.3   342.20   345.7   381.25 

famine  312.10 

famous  10.8   10.18   87.26   123.19 
168.13   178.23   238.9   247.11 
251.21   252.1   267.21   290.24 
389.31 

fancied  45.5   56.31   235.18 

336.10  357.15 

fancy  47.30   66.14   77.21   96.31 
108.27   230.20   258.3   319.16 

fantastic  316.1   339.31 

far   #92 

far-darting  199.7 

fare  20.11 

fared  126.12 

farewell  13.31   267.32   282.3 
290.1   290.8   300.11   413.28 
416.22 

farm  52.2   109.14   179.2   208.7 

208.20  251.7   253.6   259.18 

374.1  374.2   379.24   381.19 

382.6  382.14 

farmer  19.21   127.11   133.22 

179.2  208.6  226.28  282.20 
308.9  339.8  358.24  360.16 
373.18   374.2   381.17 

farmers  3.13  4.25  36.31  37.9 
88.22   251.11   282.11   324.27 

360.11  382.3 

farmer's  109.29   110.4   119.14 

165.23  189.16   204.27   208.1 
246.5   325.11   360.25   417.14 

farmers'  282.19 

farmhouse  38.20   190.15   307.14 

374.8 
farmhouses  4.21   5.10   127.8 

382.31 
farming  9.13   54.7 
farms  49.22   131.5   190.3   209.27 

372.26   374.28 
farm-yards  40.21 
far-off  104.8   181.12 
far-stretched  258.10 
farther  4.3   5.8   8.20   18.23 


farther  (cont.)  54.17   57.2   77.1 
90.3   126.27   141.23   155.5 
165.29   190.16   214.6   216.15 
246.27   254.14   297.8   319.6 

324.3  340.15   340.15   391.17 
farthest  59.8   157.12   157.13 

183.5   215.5   325.6   393.17 
Farwell  125.19   174.19   174.22 

174.25  175.23   176.7   177.6 
208.23 

fashion  31.14   195.31   202.20 

341.29   368.21 
fashionable  13.21 
fashioned  331.18 
fashions  195.15   360.19   402.1 
fast  8.27   108.7   122.23   135.6 

205.31   219.15   225.13   315.3 

324.17   357.28   385.14 
fastened  30.25   215.11   266.1 
fastening  209.6   253.23   420.23 
faster  105.15   105.16 
fasting  291.23 
fat  101.21   310.27 
fatal  53.14   300.30 
fatalists  285.31 
fatally  300.20   323.13 
fate  11.25   35.23   117.16   120.5 

236.15   250.9   292.3   311.18 

311.31   312.11   342.12   343.28 

400.6 
fates  22.24   34.16   35.20 

108.5   116.12   280.7   302.6 
father  136.2   160.12   168.10 

168.21   226.28   231.1   294.18 

342.12  370.4   371.26   393.6 

398.4  399.1 

Father  70.23   96.3   404.2   408.26 

fatherland  347.26 

fathers  149.11   162.9   366.27 

394.27 
father's  308.2   308.6   334.11 
fattest  359.22 
fault  37.13   140.14   299.23 

300.15   349.4 
faultfinders  328.13 
faults  288.21   294.22   294.23 

299.19   299.21   299.21   328.14 

362.31 
fauns  38.30 
favor  73.11   111.24   198.18 

223.13  335.24   391.12 
favorable  33.15   199.10   221.17 

221.26  347.21   356.4   391.15 
favorably  40.3   91.24   178.24 
favoring  344.30 

favorite  113.24   168.4   287.16 

342.31 
fear  65.15   71.8   115.20   121.6 

181.9   222.5   256.27   296.2 

305.8   343.17   361.12 
fearful  178.21   359.7 
fearing  343.8 
fears  140.27   257.1 
feast  267.31   291.27 
feasting  238.10   355.9 
feather  48.11 
feathered  56.28 
feathering  420.13 
feathers  236.9 

feature  31.21  283.12  369.30 
features  94.30  289.14  367.7 
fed  10.13   32.28   62.27   111.11 

365.5 
feeble  50.1 


feebleness  395.23 

feebler  310.20 

feebly  280.10 

feed  36.9   203.28   283.5 

feeding  35.6   361.5 

feeds  101.23 

feel  79.5   104.13   105.22 

138.7   156.24   182.3   183.9 
196.26   296.25   351.20 
364.4   400.1 

feeling  66.31   129.23   318.18 
368.6   398.14   408.11 

feelings  281.23   296.1   403.17 

feels  222.26   404.1 

feet  4.7   4.8   12.18   21.25 
24.24   24.30   28.10   43.21 
43.30   88.31   94.22   110.12 
127.6   152.27   152.31   160.29 
166.2   188.13   189.22   189.24 
189.28   194.15   203.12   208.29 
210.18   210.26   213.1   221.14 
222.9   223.17   223.25   249.25 
260.2   260.31   261.23   262.18 
262.25   263.14   271.15   318.2 
318.23   319.14   321.26   322.7 

326.4  336.3   368.26   379.29 
380.1   380.19   385.15   390.15 

411.11  413.27 
feign  266.27   405.21 
felicitous  400.13 
felicity   66.15 

fell  19.8   97.8   174.23   216.8 
275.22   301.12   309.26   354.10 
355.14 

felled  110.16   157.29 

fellow  30.2   385.11 

fellow-countrymen  292.2 

fellow-creature  36.16 

fellows  22.9   192.10 

felt  81.16   88.27   181.17 

302.12  356.8   361.25   380.11 
409.27 

feminine  398.17   398.20   398.24 

feminineness  398.21 

fence  205.29   206.2   266.3 

339.5  341.6   341.6 
fences  45.10   52.3   91.11 

106.14  205.1   205.12   358.31 
374.27 

Fernay  49.16 

ferry  122.10   122.10   123.11 

228.15  251.1 

fertile  16.25   23.11   30.10 
88.16   115.18   160.26   167.26 
203.20   209.27   246.3   370.25 
382.12 

fertility  30.30   179.4   382.5 

festival  358.16 

festivals  359.29 

festoons  318.25 

fetters  315.3   413.15 

feudal  205.17 

fever  176.25 

few   #86 

fewer  340.6 

fewest  362.17 

fibre  155.21   164.22   302.14 
353.6 

fibrous  368.20   392.3 

fiction  98.8   264.29   347.9 

fidelity  206.19   420.4 

field  7.33  38.23  43.13  152.20 
152.22  191.11  204.25  239.11 
246.5   255.4   266.22   311.3 


field  (cont.) 


28 


floral 


field  (cont.)  318.7   327.17 

334.20   363.27   403.22   415.22 
415.22 

fields  6.25   18.9   18.23   19.7 


11   45.12   52.14 
156.24   216.26 
310.9   314.13 

358.23   377.21 
404.24   416.12 


18   127.6 
250.28 


152.27 
262.25 


19.9   21.4   28 
53.23   118.27 
260.24   266.3 

324.29  340.14 
385.5   390.13 

fierce  30.14 
fiery  63.19 
fife  183.24 
fifteen  4.7   12, 

221.14   221.19 
fifteenth  124.25 
fifteenthly  73.31 
fifth  332.19 
fifty  10.3   74.31   166.2   209.4 

345.7   420.16 
fifty-four  233.28 
fight  123.29   124 

168.13   176 

334.18   360 
figure  161.30 

419.2 
filial  147.10 
fill  100.6   154.8 

252.13   261.29 
Fillan  371.3 
filled  33.3   43.24   60.28 

190.11   194.16   194.17 

223.30  245.17   261.25 
351.13 

filling  197.3 
fills  364.12 
filter  203.29 
filth  267.4 
fin  24.22   25.30 
118.21   118.23 
final  155.2   315.13 
finally  63.21   126.13   166.25 


260.31 

27   146.14 

9   176.15   186. 

29   371.3   392. 

175.27   351.16 


194.9   203.14 


88.29 
216.3 
266.21 


212.22   322.1 


36.10   36.25 


252.18 

418.11 
finches  359.25 
find  58.3   64.6 
111.14   116.6 

.9   158.32 

.9   191.24 

.13 

.28 

.17 

.17 

.25 

.14 

.3 


304.20   319.27   386.2 


148. 
164. 
194, 
215. 
269. 
307. 
345, 
374. 
399. 


72.18 
127.18 
162.15 
192.18 

211.7 

218.20 
288.16 

343.4 
373.31 

396.8 


31.18 
130.14 
162.16 
194.4 
215.16 
239.3 
304.31 
343.30 
374.4 
398.21 

294.25 


208 

217 
282 
332 

346 
395 
415.17 
finding  112.30   228.14 

327.17   335.22 
finds  54.1   99.28   287.31   292.2 

311.10 
fine  4.23   43.4   105.9   111.16 
152.31   182.28   190.4   224.13 
259.26   295.2   380.20   381.22 

383.9  400.5 
finely  45.13 

295.3 
fineness  294.31 
finer  75.11   167 

295.6   360.25 

377.5   397.24 
finest  94.5   101 

232.3   263.2 

337.9 
Fingal  370.7   370.15   371.4 

371.10  371.26 


167.4   294.30 


.7   213 

364.14 

407.13 
.31   183.7 
295.4   295 


27   275. 
368.26 


229.24 


finger  342.26 

fingers  25.15   25.21   27 

199.4   294.3   355.10 
finish  402.20   402.25 
finished  274.17 
finishes  167.4 
finny  32.2   118.21 

25.16   25 


110. IS 


fins  13.14 

49.6 
fir  230.27 
fire  5.25 


25   26.4 


86.17 
165.13 
194.24 
406.23 
firebrand 
fireflies 


39.28   42.3   53.1 
133.4 
4   194 


119.6   122.4 


179.15 
196.11 


188 
235 


14   312 


19 
.10 


301.13 
39.1 

fires  153.1   155.24 
fireside  392.24   392.30 
firm  8.20   14.4   198.12   211.8 
firmament  60.23   383.12   411.28 
firmly  30.25   106.23   110.9 

208.30   248.15 
firmness  109.7 
first   #91 
fish  3.4   13.11   13.12   21.4 

.21   22.28   23.12   24.5   24.20 

26.7   26.24   27.6   27.10 

27.28      28.14      28.24 

29.18      29.28      31.17 

85.3      117.17      117.20 

213.18   325.7   325.9 


.1 

.23 

.14 


21.17   21.24 


22 

26 

27 

29 

82.12 

205.26 
fished  3.12   153.8   207 
fisher  20.31   21.12   27 
fisheries  91.6 
fisherman  20.18 

23.15   30.22 
fisherman's  12.18 

34.9   166.8 
fishermen  29.27   31.18 

32.27   87.19   87.21 
fishermen's  167.27 
fishers  75.5   224.2 
fishers '  33.21 
fishery  32.11 
fishes  21.15   21.29 

23.30  24.14  24 
27.13 
32.12 
36.17 
49.10 
118.14 


29 
22 


251 

34. 


.25 

10 


33.25   33.26 


32.12 

152.23 


28 
28.1 
32.19 
36.28 
90.7 


150.21   167.28 


26.23 

30.19 

36.14 

48.29 

91.25 

213.19 
fishes'  25.8 
fishhawk  90.6   344.10 
fishing  20.25   22.14 

23.17   33.27   57.8 

91.15   292.6 
fishing-place  152.23 
fish-ways  32.17 
fit  45.14   63.3 

117.29   118.3 

230.5  294.11 
fitful  274.4 
fitly  231.13 
fitness  290.26   349.14 
fits  73.3   386.13 

fitted  109.25   167.1   330.6 

412.22 
fittest  179.18 
fitting  262.25 
five  152.31   168.29   192.15 

214.6  250.28   262.1   271.9 
307.12   382.3 


29.11 


23.6      23.22 
25.4      25.5 

28.11 
32.30 
48.17 

90.29 


22.31 

85.10 


97.6      109.21 
163.28      194.27 
330.3 


354.23   384.31 


161.11   177.9 
208.1   227.22 

364.4 

129.28 


five  hundred  204.11 

five  o'clock  356.20 

fixed  155.23   388.4 

fixing  248.15 

fixture  71.4 

flag  260.24 

flags  12.15   20.23   48.23   420.21 

flakes  19.8   153.2   310.9 

flames  235.15 

flapping  274.18 

flash  19.10 

flashes  206.11 

flat  4.24   122.: 

194.8   194.19 
flattened  420.20 
flattered  299.25 
flattering  138.23 
flavor  56.18   72.9 

308.30   400.29 
flaxen  21.16   211.22 
flaxen-headed  307.31 
flea  209.11 
fleas  209.2   209.7 
fled  343.1 
flee  342.11 
fleecy  278.6 
fleeing  323.27 
fleet  150.29 
fleeting  104.9 
fleetly  371.29 
flesh  61.13   302.4   302.4 

367.17  386.11 
flexibility  141.8   166.19 
flexible  136.29 
flickers  357.14 
flicker's  336.25 

flies  82.7   337.5 

flight  28.29   44.13   167.16 

167.18  246.1   249.24   338.31 
339.3   343.6   392.6   416.26 
417.1 

flimsy  110.1   195.3 
flints  271.24 
flit  44.16   118.20 
flits  375.21 
flitted  39.1   81.30 
flitting  7.2   29.5   198.20 

277.27   318.26   357.9 
float  11.27   13.25   23.23   30.22 

43.30   81.18   105.16   167.8 

204.1   223.21   229.9   274.30 

314.12   362.13   414.6 
floatboard  37.15 
floated  11.24   16.22   19.10 

44.18   151.9   170.8   226.16 

252.15  259.24   309.16   324.9 

391.16  391.18 

floating  10.10   14.13   17.18 
19.13   19.23   25.10   26.12 
29.1   48.10   48.14   62.28 
82.1   84.28   87.6   128.10 
167.27   197.26   252.16   254.20 
278.7   309.20   344.5   409.19 

floats  277.30 

flock  317.9   318.3 

flocks  357.14   417.3 


flood  4.25   85. 

322.2  344.7 

381.3  384.17 
flooded  4.26 
floods  164.2 
floor  118.19 

219.4  257. 
floral  377.23 


18   86.28   113.8 
380.29   381.1 


194.20   217.5 


florid 


29 


foundation 


florid    107.16      107.19 

flour    185.28 

flourish  86.11 

flourishes  179.29 

flourishing  174.11 

flow  8.2   11.4   103.13   105.10 

105.12  105.21   105.30   106.15 

128.14  128.15   153.27   263.2 

341.17  353.1   361.30 
flowed  205.15   353.7   353.12 
flower  18.18   19.11   19.18   70.27 

91.8   92.10   155.30   182.31 

230.9  238.1   239.22   399.16 
400.11   411.10 

flowering  18.8   44.11   237.26 

flower-like  239.28 

flowers  17.30  18.20  18.22 
18.31  19.2  19.14  26.12 
43.6   52.17   58.20   63.3 

107.15  107.17  133.15  160.24 
166.21  166.25  257.23  303.18 
377.11   377.15   377.28   378.31 

396.1  400.8   407.23 
flowing  3.18   4.5   43.10   65.23 

86.12   89.12   90.2   105.24 

116.18  245.21   303.15   353.6 
354.31   384.20   406.27   406.28 

flows  87.12   94.15   105.15 

105.15  105.20  105.26  169.20 
310.11 

fluctuated  66.25 

fluctuates  161.12 

fluctuating  252.2 

fluent  105.8 

fluid  23.30   34.9   87.9   185.27 

263.2  338.30   353.4 
flume  247.3 

flutter  160.27 

fluttered  167.17 

fluttering  384.30 

fluvial  18.20   38.14   118.22 

151.6 
fluviatile  8.18 
fly  25.30   48.17   344.9   344.11 

355.10  362.15   385.5 

flying  5.20   45.16   151.4   357.14 

385.11 
foam  260.4 
foamed  260.6 
foaming  212.28   322.5 
foddering  131.2 
foe  259.13 
foes  35.28   115.20   300.22   305.8 

334.17   368.1 
fog  42.2   42.4   89.30   122.6 

122.19  123.14   188.13   189.12 

200.16  200.25  200.29  202.11 
202.26   203.9   357.1   357.5 

foggy  56.25   122.25   318.19 

fogs  189.9 

foil    130.3      418.15 

fold    351.14      409.11 

folds    101.27      135.5 

foliage    18.5      43.29      44.11 

320.11  340.3      391.29 
folio   60.27 

folk    360.16 

follies  327.28 

follow  106.16   124.18   191.23 

192.31   231.18   238.10   326.2 

360.14   413.17 
followed  77.8   127.9   246.20 

268.13  318.28 
follower  178.23 


followers  268.14 

following  11.18   113.1   174.22 

258.15  330.7 

follows  64.10   147.4   257.11 

285.27   363.11 
folly  329.2   333.11 
fond  30.3   59.26 
fondly  328.31 
food  32.6   249.20   250.24 

272.8  327.5   400.28 
foolish  295.17   333.10   418.28 
foolishness  73.17 

foot  24.24   31.11   31.12 
37.16   45.3   52.24   84.18 

177.9  185.10   189.14   207.14 

211.2  262.1   262.14   271.23 
308.14   318.18   326.22   341.4 
342.8   374.6 

foothold  158.2  3 
footing  129.13   229.31 
footprint  280.4 
foot-rule  388.5 
footsteps  11 . 3 
for   #660 
forage  382.31 
forbear  296.1 
forbidden  300.18 

force  67.30   109.10   260.3   262.31 
forced  391.10 

forces  181.9   263.25   341.7 
ford  116.30   376.26 
fore  318.2 
forefathers  124.11 
foreground  419.2 
foreign  30.30   87.23   134.2 
'280.13   294.15   308.30   370.20 
387.17 
forenoon  53.27   204.29   205.26 

206.27  212.23   252.5   257.27 
341.8   341.12   361.20 

forerunner  52.28 
foresee  363.21 
foreseeing  194.27 
foreseen  135.2 
foresees  282.28 

forest  49.29   54.5   55.5   55.13 
57.3   107.1   123.28   157.30 

170.3  176.13   176.24   179.23 

190.30  193.2   212.29   236.7 

236.28  276.3   328.10   333.19 
334.3   336.28   344.8   344.21 
392.24 

forestalled  112.19 

forested  334.23 

forests  89.13   174.1   236.1 

258.14   315.1   373.10 
foretell  280.11 
forever  34.16   131.27   147.11 

151.16  157.25   198.19   213.30 
275.6   278.3   281.30   300.11 
300.18   301.4   303.11   333.7 

373.31  374.19   389.14   401.5 
404.30 

forfeiting  115.20 
forget  119.16   164.4   182.9 
282.2   284.2   290.7   300.3 

305.5  343.27   344.12 
forgets  53.10   293.14   344.1 
forgetting  33.14   119.15 
forgotten  36.17   102.30   122.27 

135.6  162.11   220.3   275.21 
290.6   303.9   369.23   406.6 

form  4.12   12.18   13.15   13.17 
49.3   57.9   88.16   94.2   149.29 


form  (cont.)  258.17   262.28 
278.2   340.5   365.28   366.28 

381.1  386.21   400.16 
formation  210.8 

formed  18.19   26.23   85.18 

85.22   169.21   244.32   250.25 
259.14   314.21   390.22 

former  29.29   30.22   75.18 
88.17   91.1   147.2   147.13 

147.16  151.4   214.1   232.5 

263.8  310.1   337.6   339.11 

343.30  385.10   386.7   401.3 

412.21  418.24   420.10 
formerly  32.3   64.29   88.24 

91.15  167.24   184.13   222.30 

225.9  252.2   265.9   379.14 

392.12  392.15 
former ' s  56 .8 
forming  263.6   357.5 

forms  23.7   38.9   167.10   227.22 

263.2  266.18   312.11   338.26 
340.2   351.11   366.26   367.26 

formula  220.9   386.23 

formulas  71 . 10 

forsake  147.7   334.15 

forsaken  334.9 

forsook  118.13 

forsooth  66.28 

fort  253.11   319.30 

forth  63.22   78.25   87.30   94.17 

98.16  122.7   128.7   281.24 
285.28   331.21   392.27 

forthcoming  311.8 

forthwith  122.22 

Fort  Niagara  228.19 

forts  43.17 

fortunate  218.14   255.8   350.1 

373.19 
fortunately  113.3 
fortune  113.9   212.21   312.6 

314.17  332.12 

forty  127.6   208.31   209.4 

260.2   336.3 
forty-four  67.30 
forward  36.5   51.22   63.12 

78.26   137.11   138.13   138.16 

179.5  211.18   221.15   222.19 

250.10  312.7   323.26   328.4 

332.17  332.25   341.11   360.17 
forwardly  341.4 

forwards  191.14   222.17 

fossil  156.4   164.15 

fossils  65.5 

foster  303.12 

fought  162.16   162.18   175.25 

268.31  346.8      394.22 

foul  50.25   56.6   79.14   334.27 

foulness  97.13 

found  8.14   2  3.14   26.16   27.1 
28.20   28.25   29.8   31.31 
38.10   64.29   81.13   86.30 

109.18  113.18   115.29   116.21 
130.1   150.20   153.3   174.6 
174.14   175.27   179.31   193.5 
199.1   200.13   209.19   211.4 
213.8   213.24   214.4   226.15 
249.7   251.11   271.25   272.14 

273.22  279.9   280.5   290.13 

309.6  311.7   312.24   323.11 
325.21   327.7   328.18   333.18 
337.16   342.22   356.16   376.25 

394.19  398.23   398.26   406.28 
foundation  135.30   152.29 

260.13  288.13   315.27   351.9 


foundations 


30 


gadding 


foundations  182.13   187.17   258.12 

294.16   351.8 
founded  296.20 
founders  251.8 

fountain  302.11   393.17   401.15 
fountain-head  203.18   288.1 
334.30 

203.19 
30.6   148.5 
192.15 
262.1 
325.12 
125.30 


207.25 
271.26 


221.13 


211.4 


225.25   247.17 


fountains  97.5 
four  4.7   5.13 

152.31   177.5 

214.6  260.21 
fourpence  153.6 
fourteen  125.28 

390.15 
fourteen  hundred  271.15 
fourteen  thousand  260.19 
fourth  245.28   346.27 
fourthly  7  3.31 
four  thousand  148.4 
fowl-meadow  6.11 
fowls  156.12 
fox  40.16   117.5 
fox-burrows  179.25 
foxes  39.17   119.18 
Fox  Island  43.4 
fragile  110.17 
fragment  197.27 

266.26   384.9 
fragmentary  293.3   329.24 
fragments  164.26   280.5   402.31 
fragrance  21.27   56.18   106.18 

157.5   305.2   318.22   354.7 

379.11   400.19   407.17 
fragrances  407.26 
fragrant  201.4   416.10 
frail  105.18 
frailty  288.23 
frame  70.20   344.15 
framed  53.8 
framework  71.13 
framing  155.6 
Framingham  3.19 
Francis  Beaumont  69.12 
Franconia  89.12 
frank  101.4   138.10 
Franklin  61.1 
fraught  227.7 
free  35.26   47.31   135.5 

205.1  246.21   249.15 
334.25   337.15   351.10 

363.2  393.28 
freebooter  101.6 
freedom  54.10   55.4 


418.15 


53.17 


191.29 


161.12 
292.31 
362.16 


220.21   220.29 

363.3   394.15 
freely  249.11   363.27 
freemen  155.7 
freest  108.27 
free-thinking  127.28 
freezing  6.6 
freighted  407.16 
French  98.20   107.2  3 

141.14   168.18 

268.29   271.28 
frenzy  364.30 
frequent  87.18   102.24 

213.9   252.7 
frequented  257.6 
frequently  28.21   29.26 

79.29   109.28   115.17 

222.9   226.4   235.28 

295.23   354.17   364.28 
fresco  161.10 
fresh  5.16   12.10   17.19 


51.15   141.8 
239.26   290.18 


130.16 
208.21   227.12 


213.2 


30.23 
220.20 
282.18 


26.8 


fresh  (cont.)  34.7   44.1 
137.3   161.29   175.23 
185.31   211.3   224.20 
262.8   285.7   319.23 

341.14  356.19   357.11 

393.22  395.29 
freshest  160.23 
freshet  37.12   105.26   1 

133.17  153.27   314.23 

380.18  414.5 
freshets  4.9   88.30   261 

262.8   379.25   420.25 
freshly  4.16   72.17   156 
freshness  37.30   42.18 

356.6  388.26 
fresh-water  24.15   24.18 

304.25 
friction  301.13 
friend  19.24   71.22   81. 

278.7  281.22  281.26 
281.27  282.7  282.23 
283.11  283.28  286.6 
286.25   286.25   286.31 

287.25  288.14   288.19 
289.2   289.10   289.11 

289.26  290.1   291.5 

291.27  292.3   292.8 

293.15  294.3   294.17 

294.23  294.27   295.19 
298.1   298.18   298.21 
299.21   300.11   300.23 

301.15  302.3   303.11 

303.16  315.5   385.21 
friendliest  281.29   298. 
friendliness  287.5   303. 
friendly  288.22   380.24 
friends  13.30   19.17   21 

132.19  140.27   156.20 
178.7   178.30   180.3 
275.30   281.18   281.19 

281.20  282.2  282.5 
282.20  283.3  283.5 
285.20   285.21   286.3 

288.30  294.3   294.9 
295.20   296.14   300.19 
303.25   303.27   305.10 
409.22 

friend's  281.19   287.6 
friends'  275.16 
friendship  277.25   281.3 

281.31  282.1   282.8 

282.18  282.20   282.26 

283.14  284.25   285.23 

287.19  287.22   287.28 

289.1  289.24  290.26 
291.19   292.24   293.16 

294.2  294.12  294.19 
298.2   298.3   299.10 

299.15  300.18   303.13 
frighten  66.13 
frightened  28.30   49.28 
frightening  25.14 
fringe  165.30   167.6   35 
fringed  246.4   341.26 
fringes  18.31 

frisk  206.8 

frisked  237.5 

frisking  246.5   317.11 

frith  264.15 

fro  358.5 

frog  29.18   319.25 

frogs  48.25   160.20   318 

from   #455 

front  18.9   99.1   191.23 


0   107.10 

179.25 

250.29 

336.15 

381.8 

19.22 

380.17 

.30 

.31 
163.2 

29.12 


7   275.25 
281.26 
282.26 
286.7 
287.4 
288.23 
289.19 
291.6 
293.12 
294.22 

295.25 
299.11 

301.11 
303.11 
407.15 
5   298.17 
19   400. IE 

.7   73.1 

178.7 
275.1 

281.19 
282.10 
283.27 

288.26 
294.30 

303.20 

387.20 

299.18 

281.30 
282.12 

283.3 

286.4 

288.9 
290.28 

293.16 
294.29 
299.12 

303.17 


3.31 


.25 

215.29 


front  (cont.)  331.20 
frontier  115.18   123.18 

230.30 
frontiers  323.11   323.30 
fronting  212.20   324.5 
fronts  323.31 
front-yard  339.22 
frost  193.28   300.23   32 

351.9 
frost-bitten  414.7 
frosts  211.24   314.29 
froth  420.14 
frowning  407 . 3 
fruit  8.19   23.19   24.15 

101.20   129.24   129.25 

130.10  150.24  150.27 
196.4   227.20   246.22 

293.11  308.29  335.21 
345.11  381.25  381.29 
404.29 

fruitful  110.27   259.5 
fruitless  291.21 
fruits  55.25   55.30   56. 
212.16   224.20   237.27 

324.15  359.22   361.14 

407.16  407.25 
fruit-trees  45.18 

fry  28.30   30.15   32.15 

fuel  188.2   248.15   382. 

fulfill  236.15 

fulfilled  104.30   251.9 

fulfilling  11.25 

full  6.2   18.18   20.20 
35.31   58.20   77.10   7 
86.12   105.28   115.31 

147.3  154.8   191.11 
230.20   231.18   272.18 

322.4  334.1  355.4  3 
384.27   397.18 

fulled  280.9 
fuller  6.19   61.27 
Fuller  265.5   414.20 
fullest  58.12 
full-grown  293.7 
fully  47.26 
fumbling  39.19 
fumed  260.6 
function  94.20 
functions  94.16   101.11 
funerals  303.23 
fungi  319.13 
fur  101.27 
furies'  379.4 
furnish  106.30   211.9   2 
361.14   389.18   401.27 
furnished  108.28 
furnishes  95.2   142.4   2 

231.26  265.23 
furniture  116.8   180.1 

308.3   367.26 
furrow  54.16   110.6   133 

160.19   181.22   271.1 
furry  358.27 

furs  207.17   230.30   292 
further  216.21   236.11 

332.7   335.28   349.25 
furthest  333.3 
fur-trader  204.9   231.19 
future  7.4   17.18   61.2 

138.13   138.14   162.14 

258.13   266.14   293.8 

375.27  381.3 
futurity  368.9 
gadding  419.16 


174.1 


3.29 


94.6 
129.28 
166.24 
246.24 
340.4 
391.29 


302. 

13 

373. 

30 

91.29 

29 

326.19 

22.16 

7.31 

143.1 
192.3 

280.24 
57.29 


51.7 
408.8 

12.23 

221.31 

.23 
385.5 


293.24 
383.16 

291.20 
74.13 

198.1 
311.3 


Gael 


31 


go 


Gael  392.25 

gained  179.7   197.15   198.24 

250.14 
gait  360.21 
gale  5.21   77.19 
gales  278.9   379.10 
Galileo  412.7 
gallery  365.29 
game  49.28   53.7   217.7   222.12 

222.13   236.4   324.16   341.1 
games  102.25   102.26   359.29 
Ganges  10.24   155.20 
gap  191.9 
garb  336.23 
garden  54.4   150.23   309.2 

329.30  379.8 
gardener  56 . 5 
gardening  55.3 
garden-plots  55.28 
gardens  44.8   179.22   339.18 
garment  123.7 

garret  135.26   414.8 

garrets  32.26 

garrison  114.4   115.8 

garrisoned  124.13 

garrulous  419.18 

gates  190.8   252.12   291.12 

349.18 
gather  19.28   55.25   55.29   92.9 

123.8   210.21   219.18   256.20 

271.22  278.4 

gathered  9.2   209.15   236.1 

348.6   358.16   358.30   404.29 

gathering  320.6   360.23 

gauntlet  342.20 

gave  35.22   35.23   37.10   43.3 
75.19   206.15   216.4   223.25 

gay  33.18   362.15   377.16 

gaze  81.7   344.7   367.20   374.31 
396.2 

Gazetter  92.26   119.10   180.9 

206.31  259.24   260.29   269.15 
gazing  37.18 

geese  344.11 

gelid  103.12 

gems  239.19 

genealogy  61.4 

genera  23.20 

general  10.2   164.13   203.26 

General  Court  84.23   114.1   115.22 

345.7 
generalize  197.14 
generalizes  387.29 
generally  28.20   28.26   53.26 

88.19   127.4   134.1   193.14 

202.23  204.14   256.8   261.20 
271.4 

generals  128.19   268.24 
generation  33.5   59.21   134.23 
164.1   222.14   245.28   323.12 

363.4  408.12   408.31 
generations  59.8   391.22 
generic  254.19 
generosity  339.14 
generous  58.17   384.29 
generously  246.22 
Genesis  272.11 

genial  65.14   113.1   319.24 
397.23   397.29 

genius  54.8   55.17   70.15   97.29 
98.5   99.26   105.9   120.11 
149.1   149.3   149.6   195.21 
218.31   221.5   249.18   297.3 

319.5  329.4   329.23   339.27 


genius  (cont.)  350.10   350.13 
350.14   362.4   362.11   362.12 

364.7  364.7   364.15   388.24 
397.22   397.28   398.20   399.21 

401.1  401.18   402.28 
Gens  de  Terres  230.22 
Gentilesse  399.16 

gentle  43.10   104.13   218.25 

235.26  259.19   263.4   341.19 
416.10 

gentleman  65.12 

gentleness  7.28   25.23   398.7 

398.17 
gentler  246.26 
gentlest  256.27   338.29 
gently  4.22   11.19   16.1   25.17 

48.11   113.7   309.20   384.24 
genuine  53.6   211.28   365.6 

366.18   398.25 
genus  134.6   166.7 
geographer  71.21 
geographers  253.7   411.20 
geographically  403.26 
geological  70.28   165.8   263.8 
geologist  346.12 
geologists  65.4 
geology  132.31   389.20 
geometrical  39.9 
geometry  387.8 
geranium  305.2 
gerardia  18.24 
German  98.20 
Germans  163.24 
Germany  148.29 
germs  167.14   408.29 
Gesner  389.5 
gesture  275.11 
gestures  155.26 
get  3.14   5.1   6.6   32.30   33.3 

34.11   63.23   72.8   74.26 

111.25   117.24   122.11   122.13 

127.2  127.15   132.8   151.12 

170.2  191.20   192.22   210.4 

226.3  228.22   256.15   260.11 

260.16  309.16   311.19   312.5 

325.27  334.5   334.17   334.17 

347.22  354.16   377.11 

gets  50.22   63.26   105.19   225.22 
225.27   225.30   225.31   312.4 

332.17  350.2 
getting  5.4   73.5   119.15 

254.5   325.25 
Ghauts  155.18 
ghosts  366.27 
giant  85.15 
gift  67.31   266.2 
gifts  364.24   375.25 
gig  122.17 

gigantic  367.11   369.32 
gild  301.2   402.27 
gilded  170.9   407.4 
gilding  256.23 
gills  26.21 
girth  110.13 
give  13.17   36.31   45.8   59.9 

72.24   93.23   104.8   109.7 

110.8  130.7   132.10   145.31 

157.23  165.22   193.23   208.9 
216.17   236.24   257.24   284.9 
284.27   290.20   296.3   315.6 
332.10   394.8 

given  138.22   146.14   149.22 
166.23   175.28   178.5   281.30 

327.4  333.5   343.2   364.27 


gives  8.31   13.15   210.18 

225.25   258.15   282.16   326.21 
365.12 

giving  192.2   295.23   347.16 
348.4   401.4 

glad  27.20   110.2   215.16 

224.20  257.30   272.10   289.17 
296.11   308.6   374.4   385.22 

gladly  12.6   13.24   264.14 

420.22 
glance  63.18   63.19   199.2 

218.30   258.5   368.9 
glanced  48.22   247.3 
glances  55.16   199.7   224.21 
glancing  63.24   88.7 
glare  61.23 
glaring  250.9 
glass  45.8   215.25   253.13 

256.15   409.29 
glassed  66.25 
glasses  164.14   168.27 
glass-house  92.7 
glass-like  153.6 
glaze  401.26 
glazed  66.24 
gleam  218.23   353.10 
gleamed  158.4   228.2   255.1 
gleaming  20.16   26.20   89.25 

91.28   197.6   244.34   303.15 
gleams  95.1   106.6   224.23 
gleaning  358.23 
glee  6.2 

glen-like  190.16 
glibly  105.26 
glide  49.11   87.26 
glided  14.4   17.20   81.24 

116.11   150.17   150.19 

221.30   228.27   274.21 

344.30   375.2   384.5 
glides  343.19 
gliding  19.19   29.3   49.2 

64.19   379.25 
glimmer  310.15 
glimmered  180.25 
glimmering  217.8 
glimpses  100.25 
glistened  253.14 
glistening  203.5 
glittering  22.11   259.4 
glitters  221.7 
gloaming  118.14 
globe  10.9   11.7   11.14   36.20 

85.12   115.31   193.23   209.12 

253.8  258.3 
globule  404.4 
gloomy  118.15 
glories  44.21 
glorious  92.15   145.29 
glory  65.22   182.7   227.6 

266.9  334.4 

gloss  157.6   157.15   357.29 

glosses  157.10 

glossy  246.23   381.13 

glow  103.12 

glowing  61.20   348.4   407.4 

glow-worms  406.26 

gnarled  101.13   246.15 

gnats  319.19 

go  4.28   5.8   11.22   19.21 
32.16   48.29   74.3   75.3 
111.6   115.29   120.5   122.26 
128.18   128.19   135.7   163.3 
163.25   173.20   181.23   193.24 

196.21  196.27   205.4   208.13 


go  (cont . ) 


32 


greatly 


go  (cont.)  208.17   228.8   229.31 
248.5   249.15   254.10   260.17 

264.29  282.6   289.29   290.1 

290.10  290.10   290.11   299.28 
312.18   323.13   324.21   325.6 

358.30  360.24   409.11   411.14 
420.12 

goal  78.8 

goat-song  360.5 

gobbets  237.11 

goblets  245.17   262.3 

goblins  193.28 

god  65.14   65.25   65.26   65.29 
66.8   66.12   77.7   140.26 
199.7   199.16   199.24   209.13 

God  65.9   66.2   67.4   71.15 
71.28   79.6   142.1   155.6 
181.29   303.12   305.9   339.26 
351.7   362.27   364.27   367.1 
398.29   399.1   399.4   399.5 

399.9  408.19   414.19 
goddess  79.29 

godlike  165.17   266.22   293.3 

293.7 
gods  38.16   55.14   55.21   65.20 

65.26  66.7   95.11   96.4   98.5 
98.12   102.8   120.5   123.1 
129.3   131.18   140.13   141.20 

146.3  164.18   185.20   238.9 

263.21  264.5   266.28   285.6 

330.11  364.23   365.7   407.25 
God's  71.19   71.22   71.30   100.12 
God-speed  12.15 

goes  4.4   25.8   28.3   193.14 
226.2   249.23   252.3   271.22 
273.1   280.3   281.24   304.20 

328.4  358.22   403.4   403.6 
412.13 

Goethe  149.1   347.14   347.23 

351.22  401.27 
Goethe's  348.2  5 

Goff's  Falls  251.2   251.20 
Goffstown  260.18   260.21   271.8 

274.29   285.5 
Goffstown  mountain  205.19 
going  5.19   6.9   82.9   113.9 

117.23  118.7   141.23   174.6 

192.10  194.4   208.12   216.1 
221.16   249.6   267.25   273.19 
334.1   360.27   386. 2 

gold  28.28   29.3   51.25   284.9 
golden  24.5   26.5   26.10   26.20 

48.27  48.30   59.16   74.15 
74.17   126.29   256.24   258.13 
377.24 

golden  age  386.30   393.23 

Golden  Fleece  135.18 

goldenrod  377.12 

goldenrods  377.19   377.28   404.22 

goldfinch  357.13 

gone  30.14   34.13   36.8   49.22 
77.1   78.25   101.29   112.22 
174.20   177.21   180.15   311.21 

356.12  356.19   364.22   411.22 
419.16 

gongs  78.9 

good  3.16   6.6   21.17   23.16 

50.27   55.9   66.26   73.2   73.9 
75.1   75.7   75.8   75.9   79.23 
99.8   101.5   111.24   112.19 
120.10   123.9   131.31   133.11 
136.15   142.6   148.1   162.4 
169.14   170.2   182.14   196.22 
197.9   208.7   210.22   212.21 


good  (cont.)  215.31   216.20 
218.10   221.5   228.20   228.21 

231.5  231.7   231.11   272.4 

272.10  272.12   272.14   284.18 

287.2  293.9   296.19   297.5 

298.20  298.21   299.20   300.13 
323.24   329.8   337.14   344.2 
384.24   387.3   387.22   390.10 

391.11  397.17   397.18   409.23 
419.22 

Good  Geniuses  296.23 
good-will  283.1   287.5   301.26 

348.20 
Gookin  82.16   83.3   114.5   169.5 

175.31   267.22   267.31   268.8 
goon  141 . 3 
goose  117.5   337.4 
gores  3  3  3.23 
gorgeous  199.13 
gospel  84.19 
gossip  253.31   346.26 
gossips  118.21   207.30 
got  6.24   71.16   72.29   96.19 

106.3  117.6   117.23   122.4 

123.11  125.29   126.13   129.13 
180.9   252.24   253.30   308.8 
334.8 

Goths  302.2 
gourd  94.7 

government  53.30   134.11 
governor  168.18   233.7 
Gower  57.14   396.13 
graceful  13.12   25.26   27.23 
43.19   43.28   44.3   45.1   52.8 

167.6  210.10   210.22   236.26 
256.18   259.19   338.31   406.27 

gracefully  110.9   111.21   159.16 

227.21  262.3   385.8 
graces  109.17 

Graces  59.5   109.20 
gracious  65.13   199.16 
graciously  217.8 
gradual  137.31   274.8 
gradually  17.16   25.21   57.14 
63.3   63.20   109.24   112.27 

118.12  165.6   170.12   190.10 

190.23  213.3   262.6   274.26 

326.20  357.7   373.9   396.3 
graduated  385.2 

graft  285.28   285.29 

grain  52.14   52.15   100.8   104.12 

152.21  183.19   212.19   377.5 
403.21 

grammar  64.10 

grand  24.12   71.29   211.9   211.11 

222.24  274.6 
grandchildren  65.4 
grander  155.10   367.12 
grandeur  97.27   142.26   148.9 

170.15  202.3   267.4   365.18 
369.30   390.17   403.10   407.6 

grandfather  168.20   226.28   233.4 
granite  89.14   113.20   177.8 

214.16  333.15   402.9   402.19 
402.23 

grant  364.23 

granted  114.2   115.22   124.2 

126.14   180.10   204.10 
grape  19.16   44.11   357.26   403.21 
Grape  Island  43.7 
grapes  8.19 

grape-vine  8.18  357.13 
grape-vines  38.26  43.5 
grasp  110.9   212.10   364.8 


grass  3.9   6.12   12.9   17.24 
34.14   36.31   37.20   37.26 
37.28   38.1   39.2   39.18 
47.25   52.11   93.20   107.11 
119.5   134.24   180.31   183.2 

194.10  203.6   204.26   213.7 
223.19   235.15   251.28   271.24 
340.13   354.2   354.5   354.26 
355.1   358.6   383.18 

grasses  43.19   52.23   379.14 
grass-ground  3.11   3.13 
Grass-ground  River  3.1   3.8 

32.22 
grasshopper  314.14   323.24 
grassy  3.4   258.4 
grate  70.28 
grateful  134.22   195.29   218.15 

296.24   310.2   418.4 
gratified  58.24 
gratifies  400.30 
gratify  223.13   379.20 
grating  383.30   420.18 
gratitude  66.31 
gratuitous  375.25  , 

gratuitously  293.1 
grave  33.18   106.2   136.30 

175.11  178.22  178.24  179.1 
227.13  304.21  326.8  344.14 
359.17   380.30   381.2 

graves  251.22   269.11 
gravestone  169.2 

graveyard  176.30   178.28   303.26 
graveyards  178.29 
gravitates  414.1 
gravitation  37.2   389.30 
gray  8.21   22.14   38.27   43.25 
43.31   48.22   49.16   49.23 

49.24  52.3   122.17   252.19 
266.13   269.23   360.11   374.19 
374.19 

Gray  391.27 

gray-headed  168.17 

grayer  357.25 

grazing    379.16 

grease  174.17 

great  3.13   5.9   16.24   22.1 
25.6   28.15   31.24   34.15 
35.11   37.20   50.24   60.5 

65.25  77.27   93.23   97.30 
98.9   99.2   109.8   109.18 
111.17   119.16   119.21   130.25 

154.4  158.13   167.14   178.29 
190.17   209.9   222.6   231.14 
245.23   267.31   269.15   272.28 
281.11   285.19   329.19   345.15 
346.10   355.5   359.6   363.4 

363.5  364.27   365.15   365.16 
369.31   380.29   384.12   384.20 
385.16   392.11   397.5   397.30 

401.1  403.3   417.31 
Great  Bend  92.8 

greater  6.22   8.16   12.11   23.14 
72.18   91.29   107.4   107.8 
108.16   152.24   222.2   235.27 
298.10   299.23   329.22   331.2 

337.2  339.25   341.9   362.26 

363.3  376.4   376.14   396.20 
397.31 

greatest  4.11   4.25   11.15 
13.13   56.4   85.3   133.2 

183.6  293.22   362.19   379.25 
great-granddaughter  347.5 
great-grandfather  226.29 
greatly  108.11   166.26   194.31 


greatly  (cont.) 


J3 


harmonized 


greatly  (cont.)  282.10   384.16 

Great  Medicine  272.23 

Great  Nesenkeag  Brook  269.23 

greatness  397.2   403.3 

Great  Spirit  344.25 

greaves  334.15 

Grecian  65.19   264.28   419.19 

Greece  65.9   65.27   96.12   102.27 

102.30  164.2   239.2   265.27 
266.23   346.15   366.16 

greedy  29.25   401.18 
Greek  97.15   239.1   296.20 

319.20   327.25   345.18   360.8 

391.28  395.3   395.3 
Greek  Minor  Poets  238.16 
Greeks  60.19   65.15   73.17 

109.23   139.6   239.6   359.29 
green  12.20   18.5   26.9   45.18 
87.18   101.11   107.9   149.25 
151.11   195.15   205.30   210.15 

227.31  246.23   250.21   251.3 
255.11   309.19   319.29   335.15 
335.18   374.10   374.20   396.4 

greener  29.23   107.8 

greenish  250.20   261.25 

greenness  152.18 

green-winged  6.13 

greeting  303.30   360.3 

grew  18.16   93.20   152.22   196.12 
213.2   238.3   246.16   246.31 
247.2   354.8   381.21   400.9 
416.9 

grief  315.21   376.1   376.10 

grievance  151.21 

grievances  130.26 

grieved  108.24   315.27 

Griffith's  Falls  257.27 

grim  124.20 

grimaces  333.14 

Griselda  399.17 

grisly  173.31 

groans  328.3 

groceries  34.8 

grog  391.5 

groping  200.23   302.5 

gross  240.5   408.24 

grotesque  208.29   235.16 

Groton  169.21 

ground  8.14   11.10   37.4   38.9 
54.15   84.27   107.8   117.26 
137.1   160.26   174.8   177.10 
180.8   187.19   206.25   209.2 
209.8   211.8   220.6   235.17 
272.30   280.27   284.20   291.6 
291.7   295.19   308.15   325.20 
330.20   333.16   346.24   358.11 
376.27   383.7   394.16 

grounded  297.1   300.12 

grounds  298.6   381.17 

groundwork  161.7 

grouped  43.20 

grove  103.1   103.10   205.14 

227.16   257.28   266.22   340.4 

groveling  408.17 

groves  44.16   339.7   374.29 

grow  19.31   30.23   38.19   49.17 
78.11   78.31   227.19   230.1 

275.29  309.2   339.20   360.10 
361.13   414.4 

growing  4.28   44.30   92.12   377.15 

growled  215.23 

grown  22.21   26.26   26.27   32.14 

49.23   59.20   75.18   79.1 

177.1   209.24   351.20 


grows  3.9   37.26   210.18   210.23 
212.19   379.9   413.18 

growth  102.5   107.1   160.14 

297.1   375.27   375.29   381.30 

grudge  328.26 

grudgingly  252.29 

gruffly  215.4   216.31   217.17 

Guano  195.27 

guardians  45.29 

guessing  53.2 

guests'  215.14 

guidance  290.29   335.2 

guide  193.5 

guided  417.17 

guidepost  271.2 

guides  11.2 

guiding  335.1 

guilty  67.9 

Guinea  359.15 

gulf  353.17 

gulfs  312.27 

gulls  4.14   5.24 

gulp  29.19 

gum-tree  190.28 

gun  308.16   319.31   343.5 

gunpowder  166.26 

guns  6.10   6.12   14.6   85.8 
217.3 

gunshot  311.22 

gurgling  97.5   357.4   371.30 

gusty  366.14 

gutted  123.4 

Gymnosophists  137.12 

gyrations  246.2 

habit  58.5 

habitable    113.1 

habitat  28.14 

habitation  59.17   149.20   196.31 

habitations  123.16 

habits  30.2   34.21   239.10   394.17 

habitual  67.8   181.21 

habitually  133.25   238.27   281.23 

hackneyed  3  30.1 

had   #397 

Hades  239.19 

Hafiz  415.11 

hail  226.7 

hailed  220.21   336.6 

hailing  151.8 

hair  192.1   211.22   216.8   379.4 

hairbird  317.6 

hale  168.24 

half  12.19   12.23   13.10   24.24 
25.13   26.27   29.4   29.4   29.20 
30.8   31.12   69.15   69.16 
87.16   88.15   111.9   153.9 
167.21   180.24   180.24   191.20 
194.5   206.6   210.13   210.13 

210.16  213.25   217.22   217.22 
226.18   227.9   232.1   250.22 

257.17  257.17  260.31  269.4 
273.15  307.24  319.10  342.8 
384.7   406.6 

half-awakened  354.21 
half-civilized  246.26 
half-cock  6.13 
halfway  219.14 
halibut-skinned  117.27 
Hallidon  Hill  394.21 
halls  199.1   417.25 
halo  110.25   156.25 
halt  105.29 
halting  176.15 
hamlet  186.2 


hammer  230.4   260.12   298.19 
298.22   363.2 

hammock  340.4 

Hampstead  185.12   202.5 

hand  6.1   18.8   25.16   25.18 
30.24   38.17   39.24   50.20 
52.28   53.23   60.24   122.19 
125.26   128.24   129.7   141.18 

151.1  188.2   189.19   199.7 
216.13   219.20   225.23   229.33 
252.10   290.3   290.8   325.2 
332.25   360.27   380.8   380.13 
384.6   401.25   411.16 

handed  144.4   222.13 

handled  341.29   362.7 

handling  111.28 

handmaidens  355.8 

hands  27.5   63.6   63.7   79.27 

108.19  109.15   110.16   151.11 

168.2  194.14   212.10   236.13 
237.13   298.10   333.1   346.24 
361.22   364.20   364.25   364.29 
385.29   411.10 

hands'  319.27 

handsome  4.13   168.28   227.24 

236.2   251.3   257.28 
handsomest  26.22 
hang  27.11   45.14   326.12 

359.1 
hanging  19.29   22.10   38.10 

217.4   318.25 
hangs  89.30   162.14   265.31 
Hannah  Dustan  342.2   342.7 

345.8 
Hannibal  310.16 
happened  135.21   310.18   345.13 

348.17   348.17 
happens  35.13   72.21   135.13 

358.10 
happier  310.10   375.23 
happily  120.5   319.11   363.19 
happiness  24.15   25.26 
happy  51.22   66.28   101.25 

120.8   173.14   221.5   255.9 

272.8   292.4 
harbor  179.31   227.23   230.6 

253.10  273.30  307.17  309.6 
335.22 

harbors  81.28   362.22 

hard  33.22   36.15   68.12   72.8 

79.3  108.23   110.7   166.6 
216.13   246.23   262.23   295.27 

311.11  327.6   354.14 
hardened  109.16 
hardening  63.20 
harder  354.22 

hardest  263.1   353.3   384.28 

hard-hack  14.11 

hardly  13.8   30.26   39.6   44.1 

51.4  61.30   65.1   65.11 
65.16   94.24   101.5   133.26 
138.16   159.22   167.11   221.25 

238.20  253.7  284.23  327.18 
328.1  339.18  367.17  370.27 
374.28   398.26   407.8 

hard-working  109.11 

harebell  92.10   377.14 

hares  237.21 

harm  332.28 

harmless  142.5 

harmlessly  25.15   206.10 

harmonious  132.12   290.21   327.27 

harmoniously  299.28 

harmonized  375.18 


harmonizes 


34 


hemlocks 


harmonizes  44.2 

harmony  3.8   26.13   62.30   93.24 

97.27   183.21   195.30   283.2 

283.3   418.26 
harness  384.23 
Haroun  Alraschid  44.8 
harp  78.27   185.18   314.17 
harrowing  6.29 
harshly  34.19   77.20 
harvest  100.30   359.26   404.30 
harvests  226 . 31 
has   #211 
haste  10.6   79.17   100.15   133.11 

138.15   151.24   200.16   218.19 

260.11  312.26   317.11   355.5 
376.27   377.11 

hasten  309.24 

hastened  39.20 

hastening  147.12 

hastes  253.31 

hastily  100.9   164.6 

Hastings  143.7 

hasty  100.11   108.25   154.5 

212.18   343.17   347.13 
hasty-pudding  173.29   325.10 
hat  22.22   358.27   361.12 
hatchet  188.1   291.27   301.13 
hatchets  84.30   345.26 
hate  135.27   290.23   299.20 

328.27  329.1 
hath  101.21 
hauled  188.8 
hauling  152.24 

haunt  86.15   168.4   178.22   374.3 

haunting  22.19 

haunts  35.20   118.23   279.11 

357.19 
have  #514 
Haverhill  87.12   87.24   89.8 

89.23   89.31   185.12   202.5 

322.24   342.3   343.6 
having  14.1   22.8   22.22   33.9 

37.26   72.4   72.17   87.28 

88.25   108.5   116.19   117.23 

118.28  121.4   126.24   149.15 

178.3  194.21   196.10   209.16 
217.8   219.13   225.31   226.16 

233.4  233.28   245.4   251.7 

307.12  307.20   307.22   330.23 
335.14   342.23   343.7   354.1 
354.7   358.25   377.8   379.18 

hawk  128.4   167.15   205.26   246.2 

hawks  102.2 

hay    3.14      5.1      131.2      223.20 

hayers'  223.17 

hayfield  190.9 

haying  37.4   37.27   324.28 

haying-time  359.9 

hay-loft    130.29 

haymaker  167.23 

haystack  86.9 

haystacks  5.11   5.27 

haze  156.25   229.7   341.18   383.20 

hazel  206.12 

hazels  153.14   355.2 

hazy  173.19 

he   #484 

head  18.7   26.6   29.22   72.9 
75.16   103.14   137.1   175.27 
190.7   190.16   190.24   191.24 

192.2  192.23   196.10   207.1 

212.3  220.2   222.9   250.24 

257.29  269.18   269.24   298.19 
304.10   304.19   307.32   338.19 


head  (cont.)  363.1   381.14   396.22 

headland  336.12 

heads  30.8   37.28   43.21   116.3 

160.27  180.12   180.30   193.11 

226.10  254.18   333.24   353.10 
354.26   361.11   416.25 

head-waters  88.8   91.23   261.22 

heal  101.20   181.28   326.21 

healed  79.15 

healing  272.20 

heals  372.29 

health  35.4   35.11   40.30   101.12 

153.21  181.27   183.24   253.18 
311.21 

healthful  221.25   365.8 

healthfulest  222.7 

healthily  12.13 

healthy  5.31   74.30   101.14 
106.17 

heap  209.15 

heaps  32.31   223.23   400.9 

hear  40.2   49.26   54.22   58.23 
68.13   70.17   74.2   77.1   77.18 
96.31   105.8   124.13   127.11 

134.12  145.28   160.20   165.25 
180.31   182.3   183.9   183.10 

183.25  185.26   209.23   211.13 
235.24   272.1   272.10   280.26 
283.31   284.12   285.17   292.23 
294.30   295.21   312.14   319.28 

326.28  350.19   350.20   351.1 
363.8   366.22   387.25   392.8 

392.30  406.19   406.20   408.15 

418.13  418.14 

heard  6.8   14.12   28.7   28.12 
38.29   39.14   39.16   39.30 
40.12   49.21   49.26   56.26 
62.3   62.16   67.6   67.6   72.12 
72.12   73.3   74.4   82.3   85.14 
90.7   102.10   102.28   116.29 
121.2   157.28   165.22   181.4 
181.15   183.11   184.13   185.13 

185.22  185.25   186.2   187.16 

200.26  205.3  212.3  213.21 
215.18  215.21  216.10  216.29 
219.7  225.31  248.1  253.27 
256.4  259.22  266.5  269.10 
280.28  311.26  311.28  314.18 
317.1  327.1  329.17  336.25 
354.26   357.24   358.3   386.17 

389.31  392.18 

hearer  329.22   330.28   419.7 
hearing  66.16   132.8   245.4 

260.12   300.3   329.12 
hearkened  419.8 
Hearne's  230.24 
hears  36.17   94.19   356.10   369.4 

403.7 
heart  35.23   75.16   78.8   164.1 

230.30   278.3   281.26   285.16 

298.23  304.10   326.5   351.19 
363.2 

hearth  131.9   238.2   256.11 

363.2 
hearthstone  205.4 
heartier  325.15 
heartily  293.29   361.5 
heartless  397.9 
hearts  123.10   150.8   162.18 

291.11  300.25   359.6   396.1 
401.12 

hearty  22.6   34.24   284.29   348.20 

359.6   360.3 
heat  130.8   159.29   235.10   277.26 


heat  (cont.)  280.14   302.12 

370.27  414.10 
heath    367.14 

heathen  177.24   296.19   366.23 

366.29  367.2 
heathenish  42.9   64.1   177.18 

292.31 

heathenism  293.12 

heats  18.2   29.7   104.8   211.24 

heave  223.12 

heaved  253.14 

heaven  36.23   40.6   59.16   71.3 
71.18   87.1   102.11   104.15 
190.8   200.9   255.7   266.28 

275.17  405.26   405.28 

405.30  408.7 

Heaven  78.31   236.17   244.29 
285.4   362.25   375.25 

heaven-born  55.8   406.8 

heavenlier  104.8 

heavenly  199.24 

heavenly-minded  191.16 

heavens  10.28   20.8   21.1   33.15 
37.11   48.2   48.8   48.31 
59.17   70.30   97.28   106.21 

159.11  161.17   164.19   166.31 
317.6   347.25   353.8   353.16 

364.28  373.11   375.20   405.7 
406.24   407.6 

heaven's  71.21   199.9 

heave-yo-ing  252.11 

heavier  13.25 

heaviness  202.22 

heaving  4.16   5.29   336.12 

heavy  13.8   196.26   273.24 

318.16   319.10   333.16   334.14 

Hebrew  127.20   148.8   395.4 

Hebrews  72.23   149.7   150.6 

hedge  34.26 

hedged  311.29 

hedges  361.13 

heed  268.2 

heeding  274.16 

heedless  27.5   317.11 

heedlessness  55.31   332.4 

heel  110.20   160.18   385.7 

heels  191.18   359.14 

Heetopades  153.18 

heifer  135.18 

height  4.22   17.29   31.11   37.13 
43.30   71.24   88.14   97.10 
202.6   202.17   208.30   263.13 
321.26   365.17   379.26   397.15 

heighteners  418.25 

heights  312.29 

heinousness  300.16 

held  44.19   49.5   79.26   110.5 
117.15   117.26   125.19   130.9 

157.18  159.2   159.3   189.17 
205.30   245.19   253.3   253.19 
308.28   338.20   396.21   417.1 

Helen  346.31 

Helius  259.2 

helm  98.13 

helmet  334.11 

helms  10.10 

Heloise  60.20 

help  117.8   129.23   150.10 

224.12  225.28   296.11   298.1 
335.12   337.17   415.18   415.21 

helped  248.8   296.12   394.26 
helps  157.1 

hemispheres  92.11   383.14 
hemlocks  230.27 


hemming 


35 


honey 


hemming  213.4 

hen  110.27   196.23   196.27   256.4 

henbane  304.30 

hence  88.16   136.16   162.11 
329.24   376.17 

henceforth  291.1   291.26   330.23 

Henry  291.19   292.12 

hens  130.27   131.1   326.13   362.8 

hen's  31.13 

her   #124 

heralded  251.26 

herb  272.9 

herbage  317.13 

Herbert  398.2   399.5 

herbs  379.14 

herd  82.5   235.11   361.5 

herds  205.13   257.23   359.7 

here   #120 

hereabouts  48.9   261.7   382.18 

hereby  37.6 

herein  136.13 

heresies  129.10 

heresy  129.12 

heretical  73.16 

hermitlike  235.31 

hero  133.10   168.31   176.14 

183.21   183.27   268.22   269.7 
269.8   283.18   392.20   392.27 

hero-bard  371.25 

Herodotus  102.27 

heroes  10.11   146.2   264.4 

270.29  366.25   367.13   367.25 

369.3  370.24   371.1   405.20 
406.10 

heroic  55.26   183.20   291.13 
294.28   311.1   368.2   392.28 

397.30  398.1 
heroically  236.10 
heroism  40.22   311.2 
herons  416.23 

hero's  183.22   288.6   368.15 

hers  347.5 

herself  18.30   45.30   47.27 
63.2   135.15   236.26   264.11 
329.20   337.10   339.27   340.11 

389.4  393.30   405.13   406.14 
Hesiod  64.2   239.4 
hesitancy  289.28 

hesitate  293.5   296.13 

hesitates  412.17 

hew  301.14 

hewed  110.17 

hibernates  101.22 

hibiscus    19.15 

hid    34.14      199.27       261.11       263.28 

hidden    61.8 

hide  103.13   211.5 

hide-and-seek  206.5 

hides  161.14   195.27   196.1 
237.23 

hieroglyphics  61.19   166.31 
416.30 

high  10.6   31.6   37.17   45.2 
87.17   88.19   111.19   116.2 
141.7   166.2   185.23   187.13 
204.14   205.12   207.12   210.19 
210.26   227.27   239.8   252.24 
256.6   256.16   261.30   304.5 
308.19   314.12   333.24   336.2 
358.13   363.6   375.20   377.10 

380.5  380.15   390.15   416.25 
higher  18.23   36.11   58.22   81.12 


higher  (cont.)  105.24   142.14 

167.5  167.6   185.24   193.4 
200.8   224.17   239.11   251.17 

262.16  288.10   288.18   305.4 
309.30   317.12   340.5   385.22 

399.24  399.26   408.7   414.5 
highest  21.23   100.22   191.17 

214.8  254.1   271.14   292.30 
293.2   295.6   296.6   296.15 
309.30   329.15   401.19 

Highlands  254.25 

Highlands  of  Neversink  191.2 

highly  55.7 

highroad  177.1 

high-water    380.1 

highway  193.7   204.17   239.3 

383.17  393.18 

highways  11.9   249.10   358.4 
hill  105.15   170.1   244.31   254.4 
260.20   264.12   271.17   320.6 

321.25  321.29   346.5   346.22 
372.12   372.22   393.4   416.15 

hill-country  226.14 

hillocks  208.29 

hills  16.21   19.29   20.3   38.25 
43.10   62.2   67.24   70.24 
76.36   85.20   86.11   87.18 
88.20   90.4   133.13   151.12 
151.22   157.31   166.2   169.28 
170.12   173.25   189.14   190.20 

191.9  199.3   202.4   202.11 

210.26  212.14   212.29   213.2 
213.22   264.16   308.31   334.22 

357.10  372.20   372.25   416.19 
hillside  39.3   309.3   377.26 

379.9 
hilltop  44.30   254.23   372.18 

37  3.5 
hill-top  339.1 
him   #169 

Himmaleh  10.25   158.14   158.20 
Himmaleh  Mountain  148.14   155.20 
himself  34.14   35.6   66.11   71.15 

79.14   94.29   99.28   117.30 
•122.8   122.22   135.21   141.29 

160.12   193.18   199.19   199.21 

215.6  216.12   219.29   268.5 

272.7  282.29   284.10   284.20 

287.11  299.27   308.4   311.11 

324.4  330.19   334.4   348.4 
349.16   349.25   371.25   376.25 
394.25   399.8   404.1   414.5 

hinder  131.20 

hindered  349.6 

Hindoo  78.9   142.12   155.6 

155.28   263.18   409.4 
Hindoos  72.22   94.10   140.11 

150.5  154.17   157.10 
Hindostan  130.12 
hindrance  138.22 

hint  13.15   132.4 

hinted  185.28 

hints  13.19   159.23   165.3 

Hippocrene  86.16 

hired  114.19   123.3   208.10 

215.2   216.6 
his   #687 
historian  3.15   23.15   64.24 

85.5   114.23   127.26   129.4 

162.15   164.7   189.1   201.18 

322.24   345.4 
historic  182.5 


historical  7.1   14.28   58.21 
161.23   165.7   265.17   345.16 
376.22 

histories  102.29 

history  3.3   8.4   10.19   33.23 

39.11  50.31       54.2       58.7 

58.12  60.12      60.25      61.10 
61.20      67.22      67.23      71.26 

,71.28   93.26   94.9   100.11 
'l02#.27   113.25   128.31   129.17 
134.7   158.18   161.4   161.12 
162.4   162.10   162.23   163.1 

163.4  163.5   163.11   163.14 

165.3  167.23   228.6   230.21 
231.2   231.10   231.25   231.28 

263.19  264.23   268.17   282.22 

310.12  310.15   310.17   368.21 
393.7   409.14   411.27 

History  of  Concord  125.20 
History  of  Dunstable  126.16 

175.22 
hit    362.31 

hither  158.2   246.25   359.12 
hitherto  328.3 
hitherward  32.8 
hits  402.24 
hoar  334.22 
hoarse  247.1   358.21 
hoarsest  40.5 
hoary-headed  266.21 
hogshead  197.21 
hold  13.14   50.22   71.5   111.10 

223.11   333.23   346.24 
holding  6.3   135.14   246.11 

271.26   318.27   334.2   384.6 
holds  23.24   135.6 
hole  208.3   360.24 
holes  261.11   261.15   263.28 

344.7 
holiday  45.15 
holidays  365.10 
hollow  23.28   97.2   208.2 

217.13  380.11   411.30 
hollowed  24.21 

holy  330.20 

Holy  Ghost  70.23 

Holy  Sepulchre  68.1 

home  21.3   30.28   82.11   123.30 

126.5  150.25   202.21   224.19 

254.20  258.19   293.18   308.26 
325.22   327.7   344.24   354.26 
363.30   385.6   417.16   417.20 

homeliness  111.17   336.24 

homely  111.13   188.5   227.7 

256.10   291.6   392.28   394.30 
396.5 

home-made  308.8 

Homer  6.23   56.15   94.23   97.22 
97.22   97.30   149.6   164.4 
182.26   239.4   328.7   346.18 
366.22   367.5   393.15   394.3 

396.21  396.25 
Homer ' s  367 .6 

homes  5.26   52.12   345.6 

home-staying  81.31 

homestead  222.1   374.30 

homesteads  190.19 

homeward  385.8   415.17 

honest  12.6   74.16   80.27   81.2 

101.4  135.3   283.18   335.20 
honesty  284.4 

honey  165.12   166.21   256.20 


honey-bee 


36 


ill-humors 


228.4 


honey-bee  52.24 
honeysuckle  4.28   319.18 
honor  22.1   284.25   334.19 
honorable  57.9 

304.21 
honorably  21.20 
honored  282.8 
hook  27.20   30.25 
hooked  27.31   31.4 
Hooksett  225.17   251.18 

273.19   274.1   308.11 

322.6   335.8 
Hooksett  Falls  321.27 
Hooksett  Pinnacle  318.11 
hoops  174.7 

Hoosack  Mountain  189.20 
hop  252.4   323.26 
hope  40.26   133.17   138. 


368.28 
236.14 


253.16   254.6 


260.21 
309.7 


1   145.30 
412.8 


200.9   327.17   402.3 
hopeful  279.10 
hopes  78.27   138.18   286.27 
hop-fields  308.12 
Hopkinton  3.19 
Hopkinton  pond  32.23 
hops  252.1   335.11 
hop-yard  256.18 
Horace  239.4   327.24   328.29 
horizon  38.23   39.29   40.14 

40.17   45.13   45.25   105.11 

158.4   161.16   169.29 
173.15   173.27   191.4 


156.21 

170.4 

198.13 

275.2 

372.22 

401.23 


199.10   254.14   271.10 


,2   246.17 

84.18   107. 
,25 


339.6   353.18   370.2 

373.9   373.12   384.17 

416.14 
horn  40.20   165.22 
horned  29.30   30.18 
hornets  228.30 
horns  37.22 
horse  56.1   56 
horseback  33.1 
horse-pond  304 
horse-rake  99.28   101.14 
horses  123.4   194.7   360.29 
horse-sheds  50.26   76.35 
Horseshoe  Interval  126.24   377.9 
hospitable  191.29   214.4   246.16 
hospitably  308.11   322.13   381.18 
hospital  77.30   77.31 
hospitality  73.13   84.21   218.24 

256.30   302.2 
host  219.12   219.16   396.23 
hostelries  333.26 
hostile  119.31   290.20 
hosts  370.7   392.16 
host's  308.20 
hot  77.22   354.7 
hotbed  379.21 
hound  40.13 
hounding  40.16 
hounds  217.5 

hour  25.13   30.8   39.28   62.25 
95.9   98.15   122.5   164.29 

217.16   217.22 

244.28   251.1 


181.17 
235.30 
340.24 
400.24 
hours  22.20 
89.1   97.7 
125.2   203 
219.6 
252.8 
314.14 
319.2 


353.13   383.13 


217.23 
275.23 
400.10 


24.22   41.3   75.4 

111.5   119.17 
5   211.1   217.13 
229.32   238.29   250.19 
252.23   281.30   288.17 

315.10   315.25   318.14 
319.24 


house  22.28   38.22   43.13   52.1 
53.7   53.8   111.18   114.4 
114.5   119.4   127.16   156.23 
168.29   173.30   180.2 
191.21 
204.27 
216.11 
248.18 
280.22 
325.11 
345.3 
380.6 


191.26 

215.4 
225.23 
259.13 
310.31 
325.20 
372.12 
380.8 


192.11 
215.8 
226.1 
269.23 
323.16 
325.26 
372.23 
392.26 


219.6   226.25 

283.26 
124.13   168. 
256.1 
372.26 


13.22 
96.26 


113.31 

174.15 

213.17 

237. 

300.29 

397.22 


25.19 
102.6 

138.23  150.2 
204.12   204.12 

231.24  233.2 
280.7   283.7 


27.19 


318.30 


168.8 

189.17 

192.19 

215.28 

226.24 

269.27 

324.4 

326.29 

379.27 

house-dogs  40.4 

household  218.20 

245.18   257.3 
housekeeper  275.31 
houses  63.8   91.10 

190.25   204.15   210.14 
256.6   256.15   339.21 
402.6 
houstonia  238.1 
hove  151.7 
how  #98 
however  13.21 
30.27   83.1 

114.18 
189.9 
218.21 
252.31 
301.2 
398.21 
howling  344.23 
huckleberries  38.10 
Hudson  151.2   152.16 

161.2   169.12 
Hudson  Bay  206.14 
Hudson's  Bay  230.21 
Hudson's  Bay  Company  231.12 
hue  106.18   161.14   350.25 

357.25 
hues  377.23   403.25 
hug  309.10 
huge  10.3   24.8 
150.18   223.4 
254.27   262.27 
Huguenots  190.19 
Huguenot's  Tree  190.31 
hull  253.14 
hum  40.29   266.10 
human  21.29   26.15   39.13 
74.29   77.13 
101.4   120.1 

136.10   138.11   151.23 
182.8   246.14   264.4 
292.26   295.10   308.20 
337.10 
395.1 


318.18 
419.1 


153.15 


357.12 


416.13 


117.30 
223.21 
328.26 
190.24 


135.16 
253.24 


61.20 

94.26 

134.20 

165.9 

292.1 

326.9 


39.14 
89.22 
128.9 


367.1   384.31 


389.12 

humane  66.6   141.18   308.20 
humanest  301.27 
humanities  292.27 
humanity  59.29   98.5 

218.25   237.7   293 

361.8   367.7   392.31 

397.19  397.31 
humanized  395.27 
humble  25.26   51. 

138.10   190.23 

256.10   377.13 
humbler  293.5   305.4 
humblest  193.9   398.8 
humbly  35.25   114.29 
humdrum  197.22 
humility  138.11 
hummed  52.25 


211.28 
6   294.14 
396.7 


1   52.19   67.29 
195.9   227.14 


hummock  319.28 
hummocks  5 . 3 
humor  5  3.6   78.16 

397.22 
humorous  397.21 
hundred  5.10   5.1? 


195.18   222.5 


30.19   37.8 


67.28   82.8   89. 

168.28   168.28 
204.12   210.19 

321.26   359.16 


251. 
271. 


176. 
268.27 


53.14 


358. 

22 

109.1 

404 

.21 

392.25 


37.17 
123.25 
198.6 
250.29 
390.13 
hundreds  26.29   271.6   32 
hung  38.31   78.27   119.3 

354.5   354.10 
hunger  400.29 
hunt  291.27 
hunted  3.12   207.29 
hunter  54.4   2  3  7.21 

280.5   404.21 
hunters  84.29 
hunting  57.7   84.27 
180.27   217.4 
292.6 
hunting-grounds  53. 

232.12 
hunting-horn  40.18 
hurried  88.17 
hurriedly  341.24 
hurry  111.1   193.16 
hurrying  133.13 
hurt  411.13 
husband  326.1 
husbanded  39.1 
husbandman  360. 
husbandry  57.8 
husks  361 . 6 
Hussein  Effendi  107.21 
hut  220.12   258 
hydrometers  37.13 
hydrostatic  287.30 
hyena  301.10 
hymns  69.22   98.12 
Hyperboreans  103.12 
I   #566 
Iambe  65.25 
Ibrahim  Pasha  107.22 
Ibycus  238.21 
ice  5.4   24.4 

390.13   390.16 
iceberg  390.23 
ice-crystals  401.14 
icy  113.18   315.2 

390.21 
idea  146.11   166. 

196.20   281.9 
ideal  45.1   45.8 

284.31   315.7 
identical  387.18 
idle  98.18   99.5 
266.30   291.12 
387.8 
idleness  69.19 
idly  108.30 
idols  293.13 
if   #334 
ignoble  369.23 
ignorance  100.20 
301.23   349.31 
ignorant  298.8 
Iliad  97.7   97.18 

394.13 
ill  275.31   376.11 
ill-developed  399.23 
ill-humors  218.9 


189.28 
219.19 
382.26 

5.19 
335.9 


25 

28 


9 
271.29 


24.7   344.5 


390.18 


30 

183 

.4 

311. 

1 

365.26 

282 

.3 

282.6 

338. 

30 

418.5 

108 

.16 

108.27 

326 

.12 

358.31 

100.24   299.16 


366.21   394.6 


ill-remembered 


37 


indistinctly 


ill-remembered  266.31 
illumination  55.17   164.13 
illumined  155.25 
illumines  66.30 
illustrate  98.3   157.2 
illustrious  270.29 
image  158.1   330.5 
imagery  95.11 
images  369. 32 
imaginable  71.12   126.1 
imaginary  193.16 

imagination  58.15   71.29   81.29 
96.12   167.26   173.19   197.29 

202.16  231.22   258.2   278.13 
289.6   310.24   310.27   310.27 

391.17  395.26   405.19   413.13 
417.29 

imaginations  237.28   310.21 

346.10 
imagine  6.25   190.14   203.24 

213.5   221.25   253.25   288.17 

346.5   347.20   405.28 
imagined  100.10   202.18   205.15 

223.26   226.9   247.4   292.24 

309.4   327.15 
imagines  231.16   289.25 
imitate  47.26   183.23 
imitated  40.8   340.2 
imitation  50.1   107.20   395.24 
imitations  72.12   331.25 
immaculate  293.6 
immaterial  412.20 
immediate  145.27   312.13   373.7 
immediately  132.13   185.14   215.5 

383.18 
immemorial  140.15 
immense  110.14   141.4   198.11 

230.24   231.20   373.7 
immensity  336.20 
imminent  158.21 
immortal  120.6   363.16   404.3 
immortality  404.3   405.9   405.10 
immutable  34.17 
impart  280.30   301.8   328.2 

405.12 
imparted  246.26   253.26 
impartial  157.18   308.31 
impartiality  66.3 
imparts  330.28 
impassable  146.11   225.13 
impatience  235.20 

impatient  122.18   285.31   384.28 
impatiently  217.10   413.14 
impede  362.16 
impelled  274.5   275.30 
imperceptibly  110.31 
imperfect  250.7   265.30   333.1 

389.14 
imperfections  75.13 
imperfectly  56.17   74.23   375.31 
imperial  349.11 
impersonal  155.10   329.20 
impersonally  156.5 
imperturbable  291.23 
impervious  101.27 
impetuous  29.25 
impetus  110.8 
implements  217.3 
implication  107.13 
implicitly  290.29 
implied  109.22   159.22   215.12 

216.18  394.1 

implies  31.14   163.12   291.10 
365.16   413.9 


imply  55.3   73.7   407.20 

implying  413.1 

importance  10.27   129.4   212.24 

283.14   369.2 
important  65.21   115.2   122.27 

134.8  139.7   258.1   354.14 
364.6   372.31   394.28 

imposed  71.7   71.29   160.9 

333.4   409.21 
imposing  30. 30 
imposition  272.28 
impossible  282.1   300.10   311.16 

327.7 
impress  219.1 
impressed  154.2   200.26   355.2 

390.9  416.30 
impresses  396.19 

impression  157.3   199.13   349.7 

364.10  382.5   392.5 
impressions  42.16   372.3 
impressive  40.11   45.23   59.29 

152.19   197.29   222.24   269.6 
impressively  260.7 
imprisoned  117.30   135.11 
improve  89.18   101.5   214.6 

304.6   319.7   388.25 
improved  28  3.13 
improvement  55.12 
improving  196. 30 
imprudent  312.26 
impudently  63.10 
impulse  11.6   27.6   27.7   88.4 

237.12   361.26   384.30   385.12 
impulses  151.4   205.24   403.16 
impurities  377.7 
impurity  198.18 
imputed  219.28 
in   #1792 
inaccessible  19.18   37.5   37.19 

390.16 
inaccurate  387.26 
inadvertently  27.25 
inanimate  312.24 
inappreciable  229.9 
inaudible  341.18 
incalculable  87.9   141.11 
incapacity  332.30 
incessant  236.16   356.7 
incessantly  40.3   181.5   252.8 

283.28   285.14 
inch  8.1   30.15 
inches  26.31   110.12   208.3 

227.27   323.29   380.17 
incident  228.20   232.7 
incidents  212.23   230.19   252.5 
incisors  205.31 
incivility  215.7 
inclement  342.10 
inclination  87.11   137.8 
inclinations  155.26 
inclined  73.2   115.23   280.11 

309.4   333.26   340.3   366.30 
inclosures  413.12 
included  294.4   294.5 
includes  332.6 
incommunicable  22.16 
incompetent  332.27 
incomplete  296.29 
inconceivable  223.10   411.11 
inconceivably  299.14   350.23 
inconsiderate  295.17   355.2 
inconsistent  35.5 
incontrovertible  265.17 
incorruptible  157.19 


increase  55.25   379.21 
increased  197.23   197.30   336.13 
increasing  112.30   259.4 
increate  159.25 
incredible  67.3   133.28   176.21 

272.13 
incredulity  360.1 
incrusted  303.23 
inculcate  75.10 
incumbent  79.5 
incumbered  222.8 
incur  331.28 

incurred  37.6   311.24   311.26 
incursion  56.10 

indebted  40.25   179.20   375.23 
indeed  26.26   47.26   73.18   93.6 

109.7   116.25   128.13   152.18 

160.4  162.2   195.15   217.24 

218.6  239.8   260.19   281.4 
282.3   282.29   285.13   290.25 

294.5  294.8   304.26   310.4 

328.5  336.5   349.16   350.4 

350.18  353.4   361.24   374.5 

393.13  412.10 
indefatigable  66.14 
indefinite  31.20   190.11   262.10 
indefinitely  200.31 

indemnify  63.2 

independence  55.12   56.4   153.21 

330.26 
independent  34.8   98.2   13  3.7 

205.31   273.8   310.26   333.7 

385.29  387.25 
indescribably  179.22 
India  131.4   148.25   149.2 

153.15   156.13   158.13   310.11 
Indian  10.6   49.20   49.28   52.22 
53.12   55.11   56.19   56.23 
56.23   84.31   91.21   136.4 
137.11   141.15   142.20   149.12 

152.30  153.4   168.4   176.13 

177.7  183.14   196.11   204.9 

204.31  205.19   207.26   218.13 

233.1  251.2   264.9   271.28 
325.7   336.21   342.19   342.20 

343.2  343.25   344.14   344.24 

351.19  380.24   380.26 
Indians  8.11   32.4   85.9   113.24 

114.1  114.2   114.9   123.20 
124.11   124.20   126.8   153.8 
168.15   168.31   174.5   174.10 

174.20  175.23   175.26   176.9 
204.10   206.29   207.16   207.28 

208.22  209.14   227.14   228.16 

233.26  261.10   263.28   268.27 

324.6  336.17   342.6   343.29 
345.5 

Indian's  52.26   53.8   56.3 

104.14  175.27   251.31   344.16 
Indians'  342.30 

indicate  164.15   177.20   340.22 
Indies  313.2 
indifference  117.9 
indifferent  36.10   217.29 

220.27  290.20   296.25   312.20 

331.2  354.16 
indifferently  27.7   111.28 

155.23  402.15 
indignity  419.4 
indirect  67.8 
indirectly  148.30 
indispensable  176.14   419.26 
indistinct  153.26   161.16   411.22 
indistinctly  59.10   400.17 


indistinctness 


38 


intrinsic 


indistinctness  159.21   170.14 

individual  136.6   290.16 

individuality  419.5 

individuals  275.28   283.11   408.30 

indolent  266.31 

indulge  222.4 

indulged  63.31 

indulgence  75.18   210.5   397.6 

Indus  158.15 

industrious  52.28   247.14 

industry  148.30   228.29   258.14 

332.9   385.31 
ineffable  71.20 
ineffectual  55.19   339.23 
inequalities  129.17 
ineradicable  87.10 
inestimable  196.2 
inevitability  141.1 
inevitable  26.15   101.6   285.25 
inevitably  288.26 
inexaustible  89.13 

inexperienced  24.10   278.4   282.30 
inexpressibly  73.6 
infancy  402.11 
infant  345.9 
infant's  342.13 
inferior  136.16   331.27   348.12 

369.4 
infernal  193.27 
infidelity  77.27   138.1 
infinite  65.15   128.18   130.4 

132.4   183.4   223.27   296.28 

310.22  383.15   419.8 
infinitely  141.24   141.24   296.30 

412.16  413.6 
infirm  236.29   368.5 
infirmity  137.31 
inflexible  65.15 
influence  7.30   19.12   63.1 

65.14   88.27   105.14   149.13 

157.4  229.7   282.27   396.18 
396.27   400.24 

influenced  149.12 

influences  303.9   412.28 

inform  19.17 

information  95.9   197.14   231.9 

236.11   307.27   343.2   412.9 

412.12 
informed  31.3   295.31   308.17 
informs  264.14   403.5 
infringed  330.29 
infringement  101.7 
infusion  166.24 
ingenious  57.6   194.11 
inglorious  269.7 
ingrained  402. 30 
ingredient  299.17 
inhabit  19.5   119.19 
inhabitant  28.6   152.20   174.8 

246.14   259.14   260.16   379.23 
inhabitants  7.31   8.21   21.5 

53.29   58.11   127.23   173.13 

174.5  177.4   190.12   199.7 
200.14   204.12   204.12   205.16 

212.17  213.17   214.4   220.10 
222.2   224.14   229.8   231.15 
256.16   257.22   260.15   260.20 
264.2   265.11   280.6   322.8 
354.1   357.17   380.4   403.24 
405.17 

inhabited  97.29   127.18   204.31 

216.23  264.10   280.3 
inhabiting  30.9 

inhabits  27.30   148.20   250.3 
411.9 


inhale  222.7 

inhaled  198.4   354.6 

inheritance  21.11   164.25 

inhospitable  212.8 

injury  187.15   329.13 

ink  351.13   351.14 

inland  75.6   88.7   201.3   307.29 

inlet  90.11 

inn  326.25   327.9 

inner  166.7   332.11 

innocence  36.4   78.25   203.19 

236.16   394.4   398.14 
innocent  55.23   117.9   120.3 

134.24  292.29   329.17 

331.21  394.9   398.28 
innocently  218.4 
innumerable  36.29   85.19   91.27 

230.22  374.27 
inoffensive  24.20 
inquire  35.24   342.24 
inquired  134.12   196.16   211.29 

215.3   217.6   217.9   219.26 

247.31   325.23 
inquiries  269.17   380.4   382.20 
inquiring  383.7 
inquiry  196.19   411.19 
inquisition  331.22 
inquisitive  230.7 
insane  146.4   290.31 
insanity  282.12 
inscribed  263.22 
inscription  264.20 
inscriptions  175.11   266.2 
insect  29.18   91.9 
insects  40.29   116.16   167.8 
insecure  332.4 
insensible  101.30 
insensibly  38.19 
inseparably  149.18 
inserted  195.26 
inside  27.5   210.12   368.27 

380.11 
insight  419.14 
insignificant  115.20   133.28 

181.15 
insolence  67.9 
insolent  120.4 
inspection  319.8 
inspiration  102.8   365.8   401.3 

401.12   401.18 
inspirations  104.13 
inspire  230.19   296.18   303.20 

381.7 
inspired  116.26   129.27   148.29 

285.12   328.30   333.4   350.7 

359.14  364.20   401.2 
inspiriting  179.23 

instance  58.9   60.19   69.2   111.22 
136.6   162.4   201.3   222.13 
237.29   262.20   282.18   347.9 
390.10 

instances  143.6   401.7   401.28 

instant  25.20   28.7   56.19 

137.5   150.19   157.31   174.21 
332.8 

instantly  24.31   93.28 

instead  44.5   54.25   76.37   90.6 
98.11   100.4   104.18   110.6 

119.23  137.9   161.25   228.14 
317.5   327.2   386.27 

instinct  35.19   35.23   35.31 

130.15  136.26   183.8   282.9 

401.25  412.10 
instinctive  211.28 
instinctively  73.4 


instincts  292.30 
institution  135.4   136.11 

146.27   147.8 
institutions  99.7   129.29 

132.31   134.22   135.27   362.24 
instructed  342.23   409.2 
instructions  33.3   35.29 
instrument  40.15   401.25 
insular  330.6 
insult  288.18 
integral  94.20'  258.3 
integrity  42.9   331.4 
intellect  61.22   401.2 
intellectual  149.13 
intellectuality  142.13 
intelligence  53.1   61.17   157.23 

289.25   363.31   373.4 
intelligent  148.8   287.17   296.4 
intended  48.3   178.1 
intense  45.4 
intensifiers  418.25 
intensity  315.21 
intent  364.31 
intention  47.31 
intents  49.15 
intercede  65.18 
intercourse  55.13   56.3   70.19 

280.24  283.27   284.6   285.1 

288.29  289.22   292.5   292.31 

293.3  295.10   296.24   296.29 
298.18   349.30   407.13 

interest  11.25   81.11   84.22 
87.3   131.2   134.4   192.3 

200.30  211.27   228.21   231.18 

308.21  314.23   376.22   378.30 
413.27   413.27   419.24 

interested  74.11   130.31   161.5 

247.30   272.1   296.5 
interesting  11.13   23.10   59.7 

152.16  178.30   195.24   231.23 
232.8   253.20   281.17   308.5 
380.21 

interests  32.12   36.27   129.13 

151.17  287.11   354.18   354.19 

383.25  387.12 
interfere  112.25   348.3 
interior  11.8   23.12   23.29 

91.28   190.21   191.6   213.21 

254.4  310.2   327.23 
interpret  170.16   389.28   420.1 
interpretation  58.18 
interrogated  265.14 
interrupt  366.31 
interrupted  310.19 
interruption  287.18   413.1 
interspersed  18.5   166.5 
interval  88.19   204.28   208.19 

208.25   216.26   226.12   226.23 
227.25   339.7   344.17   346.25 

354.22  413.20 
intervals  39.16   39.21   87.23 

204.27   247.9   256.2   273.31 

293.4   322.22   373.25   394.10 

401.2 
intervenes  115.31 
intervening  161.7   219.4 
interview  232.8 
interwoven  97.26 
intimacy  288.29 
intimate  65.13   156.19   218.26 

231.2   294.7   310.8 
into   #187 
intolerant  68.17 
intoxicating  400.22 
intrinsic  138.7 


introduce 


39 


kernels 


introduce  93.2 

introducing  23.18 

intruder  39. 27 

intrusion  249.14 

invaluable  72.3   348.13   414.14 

invariable  133.1   294.24 

invariably  299.22   301.2 

invent  71.6   397.13 

invented  40.20   57.11   57.11 

63.22      96.11      165.6      337.6 

412.3   412.6 
invention  21.16   167.15   196.5 

247.13   347.8 
inventions  21.14   99.25 
inventories  100.12 
invest  189.6 
investigate  159.28 
invigorating  201.4   365.8 
invincible  18  3.29 
inviolable  419.3 
invisible  45.29   182.23   202.9 

209.23   250.21   318.24   408.18 
invitation  11.8   215.12 
invitations  215.9 
invite  289.16 
invited  121.6 
invites  249.25   402.3 
inviting  252.30 
invocation  231.16 
invoking  274.22 
involuntarily  78.16 
inward  252.28   320.9   357.19 

404.25 
inwardly  326.21   418.13 
Io  359.19 
Ionian  104.19 
Iris  96.4 

Irish  119.25   196.16 
iron  89.12   90.2   209.19   221.14 

223.23 
ironically  274.14 
irregular  33.20   105.9   226.15 

262.28   379.3   379.5 
irrepressible  360.2 
irresistible  159.13   200.27 

222.27 
irresolute  140.26 
irresponsibility  394.15 
irresponsible  292.31   304.1 
irreverence  67.7 
irritable  75.19   209.25 
irruption  365.19 
is   #1289 
Isaac  71.11 
Isaiah  367.5 
Isis  359.19 
island  38.9   43.4   58.8   86.1 

116.17   116.19   190.21   210.18 

210.25   235.10   238.11   244.27 

245.5   254.25   257.26   258.1 

258.11   259.5   259.14   261.30 

337.23   341.27   342.16   353.26 

382.17   382.30 
islanders  66.7 

islands  43.1   43.1   259.12   390.19 
isle  58.30   224.10   224.15   258.4 

264.16   278.7   343.21   386.1 
Isle  aux  Outardes  292.9 
isles  167.27   279.7 
islet  113.15   205.7   251.3   322.5 

337.20 
Ismene  139.8 
Ismene  139.23 
isolated  373.5 


Isphahan  155.5 

issue  78.19   363.8 

issued  216.2 

issuing  89.12 

it   #1173 

Italy    239.2      304.8      347.25 
395.3      396.11 

itch    209.12 

its      #429 

itself    13.25      17.24      23.11      29.21 
35.30      45.25      60.26      86.2      86.30 
94.27      97.31      112.20      115.24 
123.1      128.16      135.7      135.9 

135.11  153.20      153.23      158.5 
158.9      161.22      178.16      185.29 
191.22      209.22      229.26      239.28 
246.7      264.1      266.4      282.30 
293.5      300.25      321.30      328.5 
328.22      329.2      332.14      340.9 
349.1      353.2      357.11      366.21 
367.29      374.21       376.16      413.16 

ivory  239.19 
ivy  38.26   247.2 
jabbering  360.21 
Jacob  71.11 
jail-birds  122.14 
jailer  136.12 

Jamblichus  105.29   106.6   184.31 
James  K.  Polk  104.26 
jarring  204.20 
jarringly  304.16 
jars  23.28 
Jason  60 . 31 
javelins  63.21 
jaws  30.26 
jay  179.29 
jay's  266.9 
jealous  330.9 
Jehovah  65.10   67.18 
jerked  30.25 
Jerusalem  67.22   67.24 
jesting  33.13 
jests  59.30   223.17 
Jesus  67.21 
Jew  395.4 

jewel  26.9   29.16   365.2 
Jewish  67.29   71.4 
Jews  59.30   73.17 
jogs  347.23 
John  Eliot  82.12 
John  Gutenberg  57.12 
John  Hogkins  233.3 
John  Lovewell  168.8 
John  Lovewell 's  345.3 
John  of  Gaunt  396.14 
John  Owamosimmin  233.25 
Johnson  8.29 
John  Stark  268.22 
join  308.2 
joke  132.6 
jokes  195.21 
Jonah  68.19 
Jonathan  Frye  124.28 
Jonathan  Tyng  114.3   380.25 
Jones  125.28 
Joseph  Hassell  169.2 
Joseph  Wolff  60. 3 
Josiah  Jones  124.26 
Josselyn  27.14   29.11 
jostled  304.14 
journal  84.9   119.11   126.1 
126.15   180.11   230.6   238.7 

354.12  354.18 
journals  185.25   354.9 


journey  170.11   215.17   217.12 

218.18  228.20   230.24   290.2 

324.19  325.1   326.9   327.9 

346.20  351.22 
journeying  10.25 
journeyings  84.18 
journeys  198.25 
Jove  65.12 
Jove's  63.19 

joy  78.30   97.9   329.17   371.1 

judge  130.30   299.26 

judged  39.29   379.29 

judges  21.18   178.6 

judging  8.26   21.20 

judgment  146.15   315.13   348.18 

judicious  176.5   385.19 

judiciously  246.19 

jug  151.11 

jugs  203.15 

juice  383.10 

juices  86.4   320.1 

juicy  16.25 

July  198.4   198.5 

jump  193.11   193.12 

jumping  261.3 

junction  85.26   258.7 

June  34.3 

juniper  52.6 

junks  150.29 

Juno  65.17 

Jupiter  58.9 

just  4.14   5.18   5.22   19.19 
22.3   23.2   36.4   39.5   40.13 
53.6   61.28   62.18   63.29 
80.22   80.26   115.27   118.30 
126.16   160.16   169.12   181.23 
185.16   193.29   205.22   206.30 
211.29   213.24   218.8   220.5 
247.27   248.14   256.9   259.26 
269.23   275.19   283.19   283.20 
299.29   311.10   311.22   328.14 
336.12   353.30   356.16   381.14 

385.16  401.29   416.14   419.13 
juster  58.4   386.19 

justice  64.7   65.16   115.19 
143.1   148.24   284.21   315.7 
331.15   332.28 

justification  399.14 

jutted  198.14   207.24 

jutting  38.27   179.24 

Juvenal  239.4   328.12 

juxtaposition  150.9   257.7 

Kalendarium  Hortense  55.2 

Kat-tree  130.17 

Kat-trees  130.24 

Kearsarge  86.10 

keel  25.31   313.1   420.19 

keeled  309.23 

keener  329.23 

keep  26.1   36.24   79.14   98.7 
102.3   119.19   138.11   155.24 
196.14   221.16   289.20   300.4 
318.29   344.4   354.14 

keeping  5.16   6.17   34.23   37.7 
61.22   95.21   226.30   274.13 

338.17  357.3   397.4 
keeps  77.28   107.1   196.21 

305.9 

kept  25.24   39.15   62.23   117.20 
117.20   119.24   167.29   168.22 
191.26   214.28   293.4   295.6 
295.8   312.23   340.12   361.20 

kernel  206.4 

kernels  110.27 


kerseymere 

40 

latter 

kerseymere  358.27 

know  (cont.)  409.20   411.14 

land  (cont.)  205.10   209.30 

kettle  131.10   180.2   188.5 

413.22   413.22 

213.20   229.8   246.27   251.22 

271.24   271.26   271.30 

knowest  36.1 

253.5   254.25   259.15   263.13 

key  85.19   136.13 

knowing  53.2   364.1   399.29 

271.4   324.10   343.31   358.30 

kill  174.12 

knowledge  100.21   100.23   100.23 

379.12   390.22   409.12   411.17 

killed  174.18   174.25   175.12 

132.9   246.14   299.15   310.5 

413.25 

208.22   211.30   271.29   342.30 

350.1   389.25   389.26   397.26 

landed  87.27   92.8   191.1 

380.26 

415.20 

246.13   252.31   260.15   260.23 

kiln  308.13 

knowledges  21.13 

307.14   376.24   382.30 

kilns  251.12   252.4 

known  30.27   31.2   33.17   53.21 

landlord  215.19   396.23 

kind  10.26   18.17   26.28   34.16 

88.31   113.20   139.2   148.3 

landmark  211.13   318.12 

34.20   74.25   101.9   135.26 

148.26   192.5   193.20   216.19 

lands  8.26   14.4   115.19   122.15 

155.31   157.24   157,25   166.14 

253.7   299.24   301.4   301.6 

122.16   130.12   204.10   204.24 

166.23   190.12   190.12   195.13 

336.6   374.17   380.5   387.31 

374.27 

195.23   209.13   209.30   223.28 

413.29 

landscape  45.7   45.9   77.16 

247.12   261.21   272.9   283.6 

knows  36.7   36.13   53.2   60.30 

161.5   161.13   246.1   269.6 

286.2   286.28   292.24   293.10 

135.11   193.22   209.10   227.8 

339.5   340.22   369.33   372.11 

298.17   312.21   384.31   401.8 

257.12   263.30   289.12   295.3 

373.7   374.4   375.21   377.17 

405.6 

298.12   298.14   413.19 

390.18   393.4 

kindest  275.13 

Koran  210.3 

landsman  4.20   151.17   223.11 

kindled  122.4 

Kreeshna  140.17   144.3   144.8 

lane  45.18 

kindly  205.23   309.3 

146.5 

language  40.31   59.3   59.25 

kindness  168.16   218.1   257.1 

Kreeshna  Dwypayen  Veias  148.3 

93.18   97.31   132.21   182.31 

275.5   275.14   283.2   287.2 

Kreeshna ' s  146.12 

289.24   289.25   327.6   328.1 

290.30   301.8 

kr isses  63 . 22 

328.2   330.6   331.14   332.2 

kindred  3.6   275.1   275.4   290.21 

Kshetree  146.28 

367.28   369.32   394.27   406.7 

339.23   343.29 

labor  12.17   24.25   66.27   108.17 

languages  167.10 

kindredship  404.4 

108.19   110.3   110.8   128.30 

languid  99.1 

kinds  225.9   400.30 

221.29   222.16   228.28   252.11 

lantern  119.3   191.14   354.10 

king  287.25 

262.15   385.29 

lap  401.30 

King  Creon  139.5   139.26 

laboratory  181.1 

lapse  11.17   63.1   128.8   165.16 

kingdoms  11.14 

labored  5.26   109.31   109.31 

203.26   314.24   374.21   402.29 

kingfisher  44.13   63.4   151.3 

384.28 

lapsing  354.27 

252.21 

laborer  110.23 

large  18.5   19.14   29.21   30.23 

kingfishers  165.25 

laborers  108.29   119.25   130.5 

31.10   43.27   91.17   91.21 

King  Hary  233.24 

298.16 

141.19   175.28   177.8   177.18 

King  James  396.27 

laboring  53.6 

196.14   205.13   215.22   222.13 

kingly  349.9 

labors  60.27   78.6   92.16   150.11 

227.24   235.10   237.24   248.13 

kings  67.31   419.10 

328.3   388.15 

253.8   257.26   259.23   303.29 

kissing  354.28 

Labrador  5.20 

308.10   353.26   373.25   381.22 

kitchen  99.30   101.15   131.9 

lack  193.3   264.4 

larger  17.23   21.29   24.28 

kitten  257.14 

lacks  348.26 

26.26   26.31   107.1   117.17 

knack  364.15 

lad  334.1   358.24 

151.18   206.13   237.9   237.23 

knapsack  189.17   189.26   192.12 

ladder  328.7 

267.6   332.11   373.16   387.9 

324.20 

laden  87.24   391.29 

largest  4.15   24.6   30.18 

knew  44.31   74.20   90.10   174.16 

ladies ' -tresses  18.25 

159.12   169.19   250.29   309.14 

192.19   217.17   218.4   223.7 

lady  380.7 

335.12 

223.8   342.12   357.30   367.1 

lady's  110.18 

larynx  359.14 

373.21   380.28   399.20 

lagoons  20.23   29.13 

lashing  82.6 

knight  108.4   186.3   337.23 

laid  52.11   107.9   110.21   182.13 

last   #83 

knitting  66.27 

187.19   368.7   388.20 

lasting  294.29 

knock  256.27 
knocked  269.16 
knoll  158.3 
knot  174.11 
know  5.26   6.9 

36.24   40.25 

54.13 
.1 


71.18 

78.13 

104.20 

129.5 

133.18 

165.19 

217.2 

272.3 

290.3 


295.21 

296.4 

298.10 

301.7 
340.19 
364.13 
389.28 


57.12 

73.8 

79.14 
106.24 

130.31 
155.9 
181.25 

223.13 

272.11 

290.30 
295.22 

296.12 
298.16 

304.4 
343.24 
370.27 
395.15 


32.25 

49.24 
67.20 
73.14 
81.3 
116 


33.22 
50.23 


68.12 
75.20 
98.17 
3   116.16 
132.11   133.10 

159.2  162.13 

192.11  212.3 
238.24   255.15 

284.3  289.3 
293.23      294.22 

295.29   295.30 
296.15   296.27 

299.12  300.24 
309.5   311.28 

360.27   363.1 
372.24   381.4 

405.13  409.12 


85.25 

90.16 

200.10 

210.2 

322.9 

373.13 

336.21 

23.29 

44.9 

58.10 

167.28 

lain  169.31   262.17 
lake  43.11   62.2 
157.31   158.3 

222.22  273.17 
Lake  Huron  4.19 
lake-like  256.9 
lakes  4.13   23.4 

85.21   91.28   1 

201.3   230.26   373.16 
Lake  Winnipeg  230.21 
lamb ' s  66. 25 
lamp  69.15   69.18   218.16 

218.23  354.2 
lamprey  31.9 
lamprey ' s  25.8 
lamps  67.31 
Lancaster  169.20 
lance  30.10 
land  8.21   19.31 

39.8   44.18   44.19   63. 
78.28   86.30   100.28   102.6 
118.10   119.2   129.16   131.6 
166.28   176.23   190.26   202.6 


79.5 
157.9 
346.7 
416.9 


169.25 
21.28 


36.30 

1   74. 


late  19.3   19.19   20.24 
79.7   119.29   155.22 

173.30  178.16   225.21 
244.26   300.21 
391.3 

lately  59.14   103 

266.23 
later  7.32   32.16 

153.21   156.19 

224.10   345.10 

378.31  393.19 
laterally  323.19 
latest  58.28   59.27   97. 

134.23   164.28   303.5 
lathe  205.30   340.2 
Latin  239.1   391.28   395 

395.5 
Latins  239.6 
latitude  56.9   119.11 
Latona  92.16 
latter  18.14   22.5   28.1 

64.23   90.22   93.1   94 

143.1      147.3      147.14 


49.14 
157.5 
233.3 
323.13      379.2 


238.15 


98.4 

217.23 
357.12 


11 
402.1 


.5 


7 

.13 

147.15 


latter  (cont. 


41 


liberalizing 


latter  (cont.)  204.11   292.9 
300.8   308.14   331.26   364.8 
377.20   386.7   401.28   414.3 
latter' s  56.7   231.22   291.20 
laugh  132.5   314.16   333.14 
laughed  50.22   195.21 
laughter  273.2 
launch  11.26 
launched  12.14   81.16 
launches  413.16 
laurel  193.26   381.14 
lavender  305.2 
Lavoisier  275.3 

25 

6 

31 

25 

12 


law  11. If 
115.15 
253. 
290. 
358. 
401. 


.23 

,30 
.18 
.4 


23.11 

86.26 

38.29 

223.26 

278.1 

287.31 

350.10 

353.4 

389.15 

389.30 

13 
135 
263 
311 
360 
413.17 
lawn-like  45.12 
Lawrence  89.24 

laws  34.17   48.14   101.7   141.2 
164.15   164.16   184.9   275.4 
291.8   310.3   336.29   350.8 
386.24   387.1   387.8   387.31 
388.27 
Laws  of  Menu  154.10   157.15 
lawsuits  209.23 
lay  18.4   20.1   35.11 
85.1   110.28   113.17 
131.1   150.25   170.4 
189.29 


180. 
200. 
280. 
356. 


12 

10 
11 
1 


204. 
314. 


194.7 
214.9 
342.1 


1.28 

119.13 
180.5 

196.8 
258.12 

354.24 


22 
19 


laying  260.13 
lays  368.6   392.17 
lazily  216.7 
Lazzaroni  347.26 
lead  3.10   102.2   130. 

220.22  223.28   282. 
358.14   367.16 

leaden  419.18 
leader  208.21 
leaders  317.14 
leading  21.21   2 
leads  400.3 
leaf  48.11   166. 

343.23  356.15 
leafless  291.21 
leafy  38.30   43. 
leagues  113.17 
leak  354.31 
leaks  262.22 

lean  133.29   310.28 

leaned  63.10 

leaning  211.19 

leap  28.31   96.12   346.13 


209.19 
318.29 


learns  301.16 

lease  23. 

.26 

least  12. 

,5   24.7 

33.4   45.22 

51.30 

54.9   56.3   70.26 

88.4   93.5   95 

.9   98.13   100.13 

101.14 

106.16 

106.25   107.27 

108.17 

129.24 

177.20   182.14 

197.9 

256.24 

262.18   265.24 

266.14 

268.7 

280.7   284.22 

287.3 

294.20 

296.19   304.3 

305.4 

310.23 

327.4   328.23 

329.25 

360.1 

360.22   364.17 

379.29 

384.29 

386.16   399.29 

401.19 

402.8 

411.19 

leathern 

118.21 

leave  5.23   178.8   179.3   202.23 

221.24 

268.1 

292.8   303.21 

303.22 

308.2 

383.10   392.3 

399.20 

414.4 

leaves  12.9   19.16   39.2   39.17 

39.25 

94.17   121.4   128.10 

156.24 

160.27 

166.22   166.29 

167.9 

167.18 

179.14   203.6 

205.11 

205.12 

209.6   231.17 

231.29 

245.30 

246.8   266.16 

266.17 

285.29 

309.21   318.27 

319.13 

320.9 

327.1   328.9 

340.8 

351.11 

355.5   356.2 

357.28 

358.1 

358.10   358.18 

358.22 

359.25 

359.27   379.6 

381.13 

392.3 

401.26   403.20 

404.26 

406.22 

leaving  42.5   62 

.1   118.7   123.16 

165.30 

208.29 

227.21 

lectures 

135.31 

length  (cont.)  152.27   158.10 
173.13   174.13   179.11   188.10 


lecturing  331.22 
led  53.28   62.32 

317.10 
ledge  153.13 
ledges  89.13   263. 
Ledyard  122.24 


212.30   219.2 


10 


left  5.3   14.8   14.29   19.29 

20.2   20.25   25.7   31.5   32.15 

35.25   38.23   62.17   63.14 

70.27   74.6   79.30   114.23 

1.27   408.31 

124.29   176.11   177.24   192.16 

196.7   196.29   197.26   198.2 

5   167.17   206.1 

209.17   212.25   214.1   219.13 

357.29   399.17 

219.16   248.8   248.11   254.26 

259.22   270.31   309.28   330.20 

24   190.27   256.16 

339.7   341.27   342.14   343.21 

191.3 

343.24   344.15   356.16   358.23 

383.3   405.18 

leaped  58.19 

420.22 
leaping  246.29 
leaps  153.28 
learn  37.9   79 

110.9 

162.10 

226.8 

380.16 


206.18   334.29 


357.1   358.30 


101.3 
125.20 

184.13 
288.23 


119.10 

167.23 

226.31 

387.5 

learned  57.14   71.17   99 

99.27   101.3   106.25 

156.1 

252.1 
406.7 


108.16 

129.19 

211.3 

308.31 


117.7 

187.14 
359.1 
learning  98.17 
116.22   384.10 


20 
109.14 
181.6   184.12 
315.24   318.7 


108.10   108.16 


leg  250.15 

Leghorn  247.12 

legible  264.18 

legislators  141.16 

legs  17.25   162.20   326.11 
326.15   334.14 

leisure  25.12   31.28   48.25   75.4 
88.16   110.25   123.9   128.8 
130.4   132.5   181.16   216.16 
249.11   263.4   347.10   417.13 

leisurely  92.25   123.14   222.10 
252.23   341.15   416.9 

lend  136.15   202.1   213.18   295.7 

lends  282.17 

length  10.3   11.6   12.1   12.9 
14.7   19.8   21.29   22.13   26.31 
36.27   38.7   41.3   53.10   56.9 
60.30   62.16   71.16   75.19 
84.22   89.26   90.9   97.4   113.15 
116.27   117.23   118.19   126.5 
135.4   135.25   139.26   152.22 


196.12 
213.25 
218.14 
253.28 

274.12 
314.10 
330.25 
353.24 
417.2 


64.29 

,5 


189.13   191.20   193.28 
202.27   210.25   211.6 
214.13   215.18   216.12 
221.15   236.15   246.10 
267.2   273.15   273.26 
280.26   292.4   309.19 
315.8   318.5   327.17 
334.24   335.2   341.17 

368.7  384.13   385.18 

417.18  420.9 
lengthened  180.6 
lent  170.15   252.29 
leopard  319.25 
Les  Pilleurs  230.23 
less  23.14   50.21   57.3 

69.20   73.17   90.26   91. 
101.10   112.2   125.27   130.6 

133.8  133.19   134.4   139.8 
149.5   153.31   192.30   212.16 

216.19  237.10   253.21   261.20 
266.4   289.2   296.27   297.5 

299.21  303.13   315.19   326.1 

333.2  345.15   346.4   366.19 

366.22  370.3   372.2   381.28 

393.3  394.2   395.21   399.1 
399.18   408.24 

lesser  105.20   239.24 
lesson  79 . 3 

lessons  262.31   263.26 
lest  95.21   288.22   359.7 
362.15 

14.6   74.4   75.13 
78.4   78.7   79.17 
101.14   101.15   104.8 
104.13 
138.27 
165.6 
212.12 
276.2 
290.10 
305.6   324.3   328.17 

332.16   353.13   358.13 
364.3   376.1   376.12 


110.29 
150.13 
189.12 
218.12 
286.31 
294.21 


391.3   409.22   409.24 


142.16 
100.6 


let  8.29 

77.23 

80.21 

104.12 

138.10 

163.24 

206.9 

239.13 

289.21 

304.1 

328.21 

362.8 

388.3 
lethargy  138.24 
Lethe  245.17 
Lethean  229.7 
lets  62.29   135 
letter  135.29 
letters  99.10 
letteth  220.5 
letting  25.21 
Leucippus  159 
level  28.10 

158.27 

203.17 

288.9 

388.8 
leveled  16.25   32.21 
leveling  11.10   36.29 
levels  105.24 
lever  13  3.8 
levers  244.34 
Lexington  270.31 
liable  75.16   88.30 

163.23   381.28 
libation  370.25 
liberal  34.21   58 

109.22   226.10 
liberality  287.15 
liberalize  150.10 
liberalizing  299.14 


131.20 
159.29 
193.24 
221.9 
289.20 
295.29 


233.29 

337.6 


52.2   206.24 

5 
79.12   89.27 
158.32   189.24   189.28 
262.18   281.22   287.31 
365.17   379.30   385.30 


137. 
395.19 


4   65.8 
263.5   402.15 


liberal-minded 


42 


longitude 


liberal-minded  80.23 

liberating  413.7 

liberty  135.10   136.7   213.5 
220.30   347.10 

library  320.14   363.13 

Libyan  Cyrene  258.16 

license  34.19   187.17   288.20 

lichen  265.29   411.15 

lichens  158.31   265.25   351.11 

Lida  81.28 

lie  32.26   101.25   129.27   177.3 
177.12   180.30   236.30   262.13 
263.16   304.7   320.5   331.24 
335.29   341.17 

lies  12.3   24.7   97.10   156.26 
158.6   158.13   164.2   262.6 
329.6   365.2   397.6   401.30 

lieutenant  176.10 

Lieutenant  Farwell  124.28 

life   #149 

life-everlasting  404.23 

lifeless  419.25 

lifelike  96.22 

Life  of  Christ  72.14 

life's  203.19   203.31 

lifetime  65.1   314.17 

lifted  17.23   22.6   273.24   328.11 

lifting  31.17   385.7 

ligature  64.29   79.24 

light  18.5   39.2   42.8   45.10 
48.24   55.19   69.15   111.12 
112.24   118.11   118.12   121.1 
138.29   142.8   150.2   157.30 
159.29   161.9   161.23   164.3 
164.8   164.9   164.11   164.16 
164.16   164.19   165.7   194.3 
194.23   197.23   197.29   201.5 
204.28   214.6   218.15   238.28 
239.18   254.14   255.4   274.2 

288.11  309.26   322.2   322.4 

328.23  330.23   331.5   336.17 

337.4  341.18   346.1   354.2 

376.5  376.6   376.12   376.13 
376.15   376.17   376.18   377.24 

394.12  402.6   402.7   407.4 
411.28   416.21 

light-colored  26.28 
lighted  218.23   417.24 
lighten  392.23 
lightens  395.31 
lighter  13.26   38.19 
lighter-colored  29.8 
light-footed  133.3 
light-green  43.29 
light-infant  29.2 
lightly  257.3 
lightness  239.30 
lightning  277.26 
lights  161.6   198.20   253.6 

417.28 
like   #233 

likely  117.2   267.33 
likeness  280.12 

likewise  11.22   125.29   251.16 
lilies  19.7 
limber  28.29 
limbs  43.22   44.5   116.27   219.3 

333.24  376.24   416.24 
lime  166.3   223.22 
limes  383.10 
limestone  261.18 

limit  318.14   375.2 
limited  148.17   202.15 
limitless  45.25 


limits  8.6   146.12   189.9   275.29 

limpid  354.30 

limping  249.23 

Lincoln  5.14 

linden  166.3 

line  21.16   24.2   29.27   39.9 

61.2   90.3   94.4   156.22   160.13 

181.6  192.17   193.25   231.4 

255.12  279.13   308.17   308.19 

325.7  351.15   377.8   395.31 
linen  93.3   97.14   128.20   133.30 
lines  93.13   95.3   108.25   227.2 

330.3   330.7   339.2 
line's  20.15 
linger  290.10   406.5 
lingered  236.3   244.26 
lingering  327.8   377.14 
lingers  157.4   250.8 
lining  199.11 
link  209.29 
Linus  98.4   238.18 
lions  149.16 
lip  332.15 
lips  109.19   142.3   150.8   154.7 

281.3   300.19   398.9   401.11 
lisping  266.9 
list  8.25   32.1   53.15   59.2 

149.9 
listen  56.19   131.10   160.20 

167.29 
listened  84.20   119.12   181.13 

417.22 
listening  180.13   314.20   356.1 

368.6   383.27 
listens  419.6 
Litchfield  204.7   206.31   208.27 

227.15   269.18 
literal  386.27 

literally  272.27   289.12   323.17 
literary  110.2   110.11   394.17 

394.26 
literature  56.28   72.2   93.5 

97.11   98.19   100.5   148.15 

149.8  155.12   164.3   230.13 
231.3   238.28   239.12   281.13 

327.13  337.6   350.28   392.7 
395.1   402.13 

little   #74 

Little  John  178.23 

live  23.4   25.27   35.5   67.20 
69.16   74.24   74.28   78.1 
79.21   128.25   135.12   160.12 
181.29   193.19   227.1   273.6 

283.3  302.6   328.17   332.17 
346.22   367.25   367.30   394.12 

402.5  403.16   405.1   407.20 
409.18   411.8 

lived  21.13   51.29   53.30   58.11 
67.5   69.1   97.15   114.30 

126.6  128.25   160.6   176.9 

177.27  217.20   224.8   226.27 

233.4  238.21   257.20   319.5 
334.18   345.11   346.4   346.8 
373.1   391.22   393.12   396.11 
403.23 

livelihood  325.25 

livelong  97.2   212.26   314.24 

lively  137.2   192.3   308.5 

357.29  358.12   377.15 
livery  377.19 

lives  3.10   6.22   33.21   45.17 
45.21   75.15   75.21   85.13 

100.30  101.8   101.10   128.21 

179.28  208.24   226.28   227.6 


lives  (cont.)  227.9   236.31 

257.20   281.22   282.19   284.30 

289.19  303.21   310.30   311.8 
311.15   312.5   312.12   312.16 

323.18  332.6   346.21   365.7 

365.14  367.13   368.10   374.28 
375.26   384.27   411.14   416.12 

living  74.26   90.26   93.19 

131.22   134.21   135.29   136.8 
136.10   150.22   161.21   168.24 
221.3   265.3   269.7   269.18 

311.20  312.19   323.23   324.17 

325.15  343.22   396.19 
llamas  313.1 

load  52.31   210.31   225.28 
226.3   251.12   251.13   328.4 

loaded  12.22 

loading  249.2   381.16 

loaf  189.16   302.11   308.8 
325.11 

loam  127.19 

loath  353.20 

local  59.17   149.20 

localities  18.8   23.7 

locality  19.17   179.18   381.2 

located  197.8 

lock  212.22   252.8   308.16 

locked  260.31   385.21 

locker  254.10 

lock-man  207.17   208.5   225.26 
252.10 

lock-men's  256.5 

locks  80.22   80.25   89.2   91.4 
116.20   117.7   206.27   211.17 
225.13   245.11   247.29   248.9 
249.3   252.13   252.15   273.14 

318.16  385.20   385.23 
locust  145.28   360.24 
locusts  157.8 

lodge  291.24 

lodged  18.27   48.22   125.25 

125.29   126.12   211.24   262.28 

326.25 
lodges  309.3 
lodging  218.17   225.22 
loftier  142.28   167.18   288.28 
loftiest  93.31   393.27   397.22 
loftiness  184.11 
lofty  111.15   275.16   293.2 

416.25 
log  160.22   324.4 
logic  181.19   265.19 
logical  265.15 
logs  11.24   228.23   244.34 

318.20 
logwood  195.28   196.1 
loiter  62.21   162.31   167.30 

344.26   413.12 
loitered  274.16 
loitering  35.26   188.4 
London  56.16   238.15 
Londonderry  92.30   268.25   270.26 
lonely  14.5   39.5   158.8   246.17 
long   #116 
longer  74.27   87.16   118.9 

124.12   128.17   133.8   137.2 

202.16  204.27   205.10   217.19 

254.17  323.12   324.9   364.23 

374.19  383.24   392.14   401.26 

403.18  404.20   419.19 
longest  312.23   375.2   409.21 
long-established  220.9 
long- forgotten  257.6 
longitude  119.11 


long-lived 


43 


long-lived  123.1 
long-suffering  218.11 
look  5.5   6.25   27.24   31.26 
62.26   63.14   63.30   78.7 
81.1   81.2   89.19   107.29 
138.12   138.16 
161.22 
193.27 
212.14 
239.25 
.7 


138.23 
167.3 

196.11 
216.20 
250.18 

297.8 


148.27 
173.24 
208.12 
218.26 
271.30 
298.14 


160.15 
174.6 
208.24 
222.11 
272.29 

307.14   341.10   348.7   353.15 
353.16   384.14   395.27   406.25 
looked  9.1   18.10   20.14   38.29 
43.6   63.12   63.27   90.29 
115.27   150.27   169.27   189.19 
190.29   197.2   208.13   215.23 
248.5   250.10   259.2   264.12 

333.27  354.3   357.16   417.28 
looking  38.5   39.4   77.12 

117.24   176.30   179.8   192.21 

212.28  219.27   220.13   226.5 
235.22   245.25   249.22   250.15 
297.8   344.26 

lookout  357.3 
looks  4.19   24.8 

111.14  133.23 
379.7   408.22 

loose  86.29   122.14   123.7 

127.19   135.7   358.13   358.23 

359.15  387.22 
loosed  289.27 
loosely  153.24   262.25 
loosened  64.30 
lord  205.17 

67.2 

104.17   330.6 


26.8   81.7 
147.3   257.16 


409.29 


Lord's  51.2 
lose  104.15 
loser  4.25 
losers  307.22 
losing  217.10 
loss  37.6 
lost  85.30 

161.18 

193.21 
.20 


388.26 
54.6   336.1 
102.12   151. 
161.25   193.16 


193.24 
361.20   379.6 
392.11   407.1 
loud  40.7   291.9 
louder  38.4   90.6 
loudest  40.4   195.21 
lounging  63.9 
love  3.16   54.14 

68.14   68.15   72.15 
73.1   73.9   101.23 
135.26   178.26 
284.26 
287.28 
290.18 
293.9 
295.15 
300.27 
303.14 
359.5 

374.17   395 
399.1   399 


379.13 
20 

193.17 
266.6   349.12 
381.3   385.18 
409.12 


282.15 

285.12 

289.13 

290.29 

294.14 

300.20 

303.14 

329.5 

364.4 

398.25 

406.19 
loved  253.11 
lover  81.12 

385.22 
lovers  86.11 

290.19   290.25 
loves  27.10   27.25 

295.14   361.3 
love's  287.31 
Lovewell  124.18 

177.6   346.7 


354.28 


54.22   59.30 
72.20 
123.10 
282.10   282.13 
284.29   285.4 
288.6   288.24 

290.22  290.24 
294.2   294.6 

296.2   297.6 

301.23  301.28 
303.16   328.31 

359.19   361.5 


396.28 
399.22 


299.27 

111.30 


301.16 


284.3   286.1 


110.26 


Lovewell's  168.29   176.10 
Lovewell 's  Town  12  3.31 
low  86.30   113.15   116.8 

192.25   194.5 

211.7 

227.21 

353.20 

359.1 
3   31.25 


176.15 


219.26 
230.29 
354.26 

368.7 
32.7 


180.31 
205.7 
220.13 
245.22 
358.3 


251.5 
380.3 
lower  13. 
165.29 
235.29 


319.19 

195.27 


22.25 


259.23 


6   244.32 


190.21 

210.26 

223.16 

252.30 

358.20 
Lowell  4.6   31.25   32.7   32.21 

35.16   39.29   85.10   87.12 

89.6   89.24   115.28   117.13 

225.17   225.20   225.30   233.2 
251.16   260.13   264.9 
381.24 

,30   92.29   97.10   155.25 
185.25   190.3   192.4 
340.6 
lowering  208.14 
lowest  77.14   86.26   349.30 
lowlanders  220.10 
lowlands  11.7   202.11 
low-roofed  22.28 
low-water-mark  36.14 
luck  20.18   20.27   21. 

23.16 
lucky  224.1   254.8 
ludicrous  206.7 
lull  355.13 
lulled  180.28 
lumber  87.24 

362.13 
lumberers  222. 
lumbermen  3  36.1 
luminary  163.13   377.29 
lunch  206.4   273.28   274.17 
luncheon  194.2  5 
lungs  40.18 
lure  11.4 
lurked  38.21 
lurking  14.9   29.14 
lurking-place  158.23 
lurks  183.20   343.25   404.29 
lustre  97.10   377.21   403.2 
Luxor  267.1 
luxuries  99.11 
luxurious  91.15   129.30   198.14 

379.19 
luxury  159.15   256.22   319.16 

339.10   368.22   382.5 
Lyceum  102.25 
Lycurgus  360.13 
Lydgate  57.21 
lying  87.25   130.7   177.9 

245.22   388.21 
lyre  185.22   239.17   240.4 

280.25   363.9 
lyres  419.23 
lyric  239.16   392.9 
machinery  370.3 
mackerel  28.12 
MacRolne  368.10 
mad  58.19   71.27   87.7   193.13 

419.17 
made  4.31   11.19   13.9   22.1 

24.25   25.6   36.30   38.7   38.13 

52.1   58.11   58.18   60.5   61.11 

61.14   67.10   71.23   91.21 

108.7   109.23   119.6 


126.17   168.21 


102.30 

129.14 

166.14 

166.25 

188.2 

200.30 

214.29 

228.6 


160.28 
166.20 
173.20 

193.25 
202.19 
216.6 

235.14 


164.10 
166.21 
174.16 

194.15 
207.26 

217.2 


166.6 
166.23 
176.6 
194.19 
209.25 
220.11 


made  (cont . )  251 . 
253.21   258.1 
265.1 
275.24 
299.19 
344.19 
361.27 
382.20 
,3 


5   251.17 
258.11   264 
269.16 

292.1 

339.5 

355.10 
371.1 


275 

294 

342. 

361 

380.4 


1 

14 

11 

19 

.18 


267.32 
282.11 
334.22 
354.13 
362.2 

388.8   388.17   390.2 
390.3   395.28   402.9   403.23 
406.13   408.14   408.16   413.25 
419.2   419.12   420.8   420.16 
magic  191.14   278.4 
magnanimity  284.1   284.4 
magnanimous  81.5   283.20   283.20 
magnanimously  408.30 
magnificence  95.10 
magnify  19  3.1 
magnifying  349.1 
magnitude  239.24 
Mahabharat  148.2 
Mahometans  59.31 
maiden  45.28 

382.16 
maidens  48.29 
maiden ' s  46 . 6 
maids  131.8 
maimed  333.1 
main  8.6   68.15   90.2   97.2 

211.21 
Maine  132.5   222.7   236.1 
mainland  210.20   248.16 
mainly  220.8   236.6 
maintain  34.23 

156.17 
maintaining  114.4 
majestic  222.24 
make  5.7   24.6   55.25 
66.11   67.30 
91.6   99.7 
109.12   111.20 
133.10 
151.24 
166.10 
200.16 
229.31   230 
256.15   282 
283.19   290 
296.27   297. 
303.8   310.13 


233.1   311.27 


288.6 


101.17   138.25 


61.15 

79.17 

108.8 

132.14 

149.28 

162.19 

181.20 

225.18 

251.13 

283.18 

296.15 

301. 

333.12 

340.10 

383.17 

396.25 


134.23 
159.7 
167.6 
220.14 
5 
2 
6 
2 


337.15 
347.19 
385.19 
413.20 


339.20 

365.2 

388.16 

415.20 


57.13 

74.28 

100.15 

120. 

138 

160. 

178. 

223 

245. 

283. 

291. 

298. 

322.1 

339 

380. 

394 

419 


2 

.15 

18 

29 

.18 

23 

18 

28 

12 

0 

.24 

21 

.28 

.29 


maker  182.4 
Maker  69.21 

makes  8.7   19.3   30.1   42.16 
45.3   103.12   109.8   126.25 
131.4   157.3   163.31   178.21 
183.8   330.27   363.2   365.19 
368.25   368.26   375.27   382. 
383.15   408.12 
making  10.6   45.1   60.20   119. 
123.6   133.30   174.2   189.2 
196.21 
312.21 
343.17 


203.20 

326.4 

349.7 


228 
326. 
354 


247.18   248.16 


194.17 
260.11 
341.15 
385.5 

mallets  228.1 

Malvern  Hills  54.23 

man  12.6   20.24   21.6   21.11 
22.3   22.6   22.7   33.8   35. 
35.13   35.25   42.9   43.14 
48.19   49.30   52.1   52.24 
52.31   53.7   55.7   56.9   57 
58.2   58.17   63.24   65.1 


4 

.2 

3 

.IE 

5 

29 


11 


man  (cont . ) 


44 


man  (cont.)  66.11   67.4   67.9 
68.24   69.1   70.29   73.19   74.8 
74.12   74.16   74.30   78.6 
80.23   81.2   81.10   81.15 
85.1   90.10   93.11   93.12   94.7 
94.27   97.30   99.5   101.5 
107.30   110.2   110.29   115.9 

115.18  127.15   128.17   129.13 
133.17   135.26   136.6   136.10 

136.19  138.9   146.21   156.28 
157.27   160.10   168.24   168.26 

178.19  179.19   189.24   191.16 
192.11   193.9   193.11   195.21 

196.30  208.6   208.10   211.19 

211.20  211.26   214.7   214.10 
214.15   215.2   218.7   218.14 
219.19   220.27   221.2   245.24 

246.9  246.9   247.31   250.10 
257.11   263.18   267.24   269.15 

272.3  272.7   273.10   273.12 

278.13  282.15   282.23   283.9 

283.10  283.18   283.21   283.21 

284.17  287.10   287.15   287.18 

287.18  288.12   295.5   295.26 

298.15  299.32   300.5   300.5 

304.23  304.24   308.4   308.10 

308.24  311.5   311.19   312.12 

312.19  314.23   317.12   319.5 

323.31  324.16   324.20   324.29 

326.4  328.6   329.19   330.9 

330.16  331.1   331.21   332.1 

332.5  332.10   333.10   334.7 

335.9  336.19   337.3   337.8 

337.14  344.20   344.21   344.23 

349.1  349.13   350.7   350.11 
350.13   351.6   362.4   362.10 

364.27  367.8   368.22   368.27 

370.18  372.21   373.1   373.5 
373.23   373.23   373.30   375.30 

380.10  380.26   385.27   387.3 

389.28  392.13   394.17   396.5 

398.4  398.6   398.24   401.8 
401.13   403.14   403.22   404.31 
405.3   408.22   413.30   416.23 

418.6  420.5 
manage  312.13   345.1 
managed  221.12   318.29 
managing  196.13 

Manchester  85.11  89.24  225.18 
250.31  251.16  260.14  264.9 
268.22   274.28 

Manchester  Manufacturing  Company 
259.28 

manhood  147.9   406.5 

manifest  228.6   237.30 

manifold  47.33   303.9 

mankind  66.1   67.14   74.23   94.3 
97.26   127.23   132.5   141.28 
141.31   149.10   149.13   150.6 

151.19  181.20   195.15   213.30 
218.8   237.20   272.25   347.2 
350.6   350.15   361.17   409.13 
412.10   414.11   417.31 

manner  142.27   162.4   211.29 

219.2  342.25   398.29 
manners  55.9   212.5   217.28 

297.5  398.16   399.20   400.20 
manoeuvres  33.12   228.22 

Man  of  Genius  350.4   350.6 

Man  of  Lawe's  tale  398.13 

manor  205.16 

man's  22.20   23.21   34.17   36.11 
52.21   56.14   74.8   74.11 
79.18   99.21   106.29   107.26 
110.18   133.14   135.24   137.3 


man's  (cont.)  160.6   167.26 

178.21   184.11   218.30   251.31 
266.31   277.25   282.7   283.11 

290.26  291.24   309.2   312.20 
337.13   339.28   340.2   379.8 
383.12   385.30   396.10   413.10 
414.8 

mansions  403.26 

Mantua  49.16 

manufacture  93.3   153.4   247.12 

manufactures  89.11 

manufacturing  169.11 

manure  32.6 

many   #137 

map  180.8   215.16   216.30   372.11 

maple  86.10   128.6   130.23   211.25 

213.7  214.29   266.15   357.26 
maples  4.19   6.2   8.17   127.3 

179.27  213.14   227.17   227.24 
227.27   333.28   358.1 

maple-sugar  291.28 

marble  183.19   301.29 

march  96.21   97.4   106.5   126.17 

254.8  310.17      342.9 

March  4.16   34.3   232.6   341.22 

342.6   344.28 
marched  123.20 
marching  183.27 
margin  18.13   168.1   203.20 

203.30 
mariner  221.27   224.15   278.8 

280.4 
mariners  58.19   100.26 
mariner's  257.17   279.8 
mark  20.17   30.14   53.13   357.29 

380.2  420.24 

marked  269.12   379.26   380.13 

381.8   381.10   388.27   416.17 

419.15 
market  251.11   381.24 
markets  308.11 
marks  137.31   174.16   233.26 

265.1 
Marlboro'  Chapel  131.29 
Marlborough  114.10 
marmots  101.22 
marrow  101.23   110.19 
marry  328.13 
marsh  190.30   210.12   210.27 

416.27 
marsh-bankers  91.26 
marshes  137.9 
marten's  333.20 
marts  119.21   128.11 
Marvell  328.8 
Mary  Marks  169.4 
Mary  Nef f  342.3 
masculine  65.17   398.20 
masks  108.13 
masons  249. 3 
masons '  210. 31 

mass  30.4   43.6   260.4   284.16 
Massabesic  Lake  89.15 
Massabesic  Pond  250.27 
massacre  270 .  30 
Massachusetts  52.25   82.14   85.27 

90.13   135.14   135.16   189.11 

198.3  211.8   261.19 

masses  18.5   43.28   44.10   177.8 

407.3 
massive  370.3   402.19 
mast  39.5   235.23 
master  129.6   266.21   332.26 

344.2   419.1 
masters  106.28   129.20   251.30 


masters  (cont.)  414.20 

master's  343.5 

mastery  81.6 

mastiff  40.6 

masts  13.5   87.13 

match  339.10 

matched  399.31 

matching  97.27 

material  59.28   63.20   132.17 
133.29   166.8   259.18   262.25 
262.28   263.1   266.28   301.11 
337.1   353.3   361.17   364.19 
412.15   412.24 

materials  60.24   60.26   110.29 
165.3   231.24   277.31 

mates  364.31 

mathematical  386.21 

mathematics  81.12   385.22 
386.17   387.10   387.12 

matter  10.4   74.29   99.14 

110.17  159.30   208.9   273.8 
277.28   312.24   312.26   331.3 
340.3   350.19   412.1 

matters  9.1   148.5   298.2 

298.8  298.9   301.7   401.14 
matting  166.8 

mature  196.4   375.28 

matured  312.17   350.29 

maturing  12.11   237.26   404.31 

matutine  61.22 

maxims  280.1 

may   #181 

maybe  122.28 

mayst  36.25 

maze  38.27   45.18   85.20 

McGaw's  Island  245.5 

me   #115 

mead  182.25 

meadow  8.17   8.24   8.27   14.5 
19.21   21.2   31.6   34.13 
36.30   37.4   37.28   38.1 
58.20   119.17   133.15   340.16 
358.3   372.12   374.10   375.18 
416.31 

Meadow  River  8.11 

meadows  3.4   3.14   4.11   6.10 
8.12   8.30   9.31   14.10 
16.24   18.22   19.14   22.8 
29.23   32.29   48.24   52.11 
52.16   62.3   62.31   88.17 
92.29   157.6   167.22   168.1 

169.9  169.22   169.30   170.8 
223.1   376.28   377.6   377.16 

meadow's  223.4 

meadow-sweet  14.12   37.19 

meads  414.3 

meagre  395.17 

meal  38.15   180.7   325.8 

325.20   343.17 
meals  21.21   343.31 
mealy-mouthed  111.29 
mean  69.14   73.7   109.18   128.3 

261.6  271.13   284.14   285.21 

325.18  326.13   326.14 
meandering  169.9   322.19 
meanderings  213.6 
meanders  333.19 

meaning  86.12   115.29   166.30 

220.7  289.31   386.26 
meanings  289.24 
meanly  58.11   311.23 
meanness  315.26   331.17   407.7 
means  23.1   74.15   89.2   123.10 

135.13   151.12   191.13   192.29 
206.27   245.11   268.4   268.8 


means  (cont . ) 


45 


mild 


means  (cont.)  282.23   304.31 
325.25   364.28   376.6   413.4 

meant  273.22 

meantime  365 . 3 

meanwhile  21.24   25.1   32.20 
35.27   37.18   82.15   102.2 
118.25   126.24   180.7   222.19 
228.25   307.17   312.20   380.10 

measure  58.6   102.12   128.18 
177.15   179.4   183.28   195.7 
372.4   392.11   413.20 

measured  94.1   138.8   328.13 
401.24 

measures  315.22   332.13   386.13 
386.15 

measuring  191.13 

meat  6.21   212.16   237.23 

mediate  272.31 

mediation  223.11 

medicated  305.1 

medicinal  379.14 

medicine  166.24   246.7   272.8 
272.26 

meditate  177.17 

meditating  48.25 

meditative  78.17 

Mediterranean  Sea  253.4   267.3 

medium  23.30   71.2 

meek  50.31   53.31 

meet  36.26   87.23   93.12   120.10 
122.7   127.10   128.23   137.11 
153.17   163.12   193.8   212.7 
220.20   282.6   284.20   286.2 
288.12   291.9   296.6   329.30 
363.29   385.27   393.2   400.5 

meeting  81.4   215.13   262.5 

meeting-house  43.8   49.22   50.26 
74.3   74.6   76.35   227.15 

meets  97.18   291.6   370.20 

Megareans  265.10   265.13 

melancholy  78.15   250.5 

mellow  377.21 

melodies  359.14 

melodious  40.15   419.20 

melodiously  58.28 

melody  283.4   393.8 

melon  128.7   129.22 
335.9 

melon-patch  308.13 

melons  13.1   39.19 

150.25   256.18   308.9 
308.28   309.2   309.14 

melted  24.1   156.30 

members  135.5   284.21 

membrane  49.4 

memento  3  3.4 

Memnon  58.25   97.17   185.20 

memorable  40.1   67.11   94.8 

94.31   148.28   161.26   204.20 
285.11   394.22   416.21   418.7 

memorandum  64.8 


418.26 
308.29 


130.10 

308.10 


memorial  140.15 

memories  303.23 

memory  33.5   36 

58.28   67.17 

167.26   168.2 

285.15   310.1 

men  3.10   5.11 

6.17   6.19   6 


163.31   232.8 


21.11 

35.10 

48.3 

51.29 

58.11 


18   42.18   58.6 
101.31   161.20 
230.14   246.9 
310.20   314.16 
5.12   5.13   6.8 
23   12.5   21.9 

21.18  34.21       34.27 

36.2      36.13      36.28      37.27 
48.9      48.17      49.16      50.24 

53.19  53.28      54.3      58.10 
58.30      59.3      59.25      60.1 


men    (cont.)    61.19      61.19      61.21 

63.9  63.22      64.19      65.20      66.1 

69.10  70.14   75.7   77.8   77.21 
80.27   81.31   93.25   96.4 
102.2   106.1   106.1   107.18 
108.10   108.18   109.11   110.12 
111.22   112.29   114.19   115.27 

120.2  121.4   122.16   123.2 

123.9  123.10   123.16   124.27 

127.18  127.25   127.28   128.13 

128.21  128.23   128.25   132.9 
132.15   134.12   134.22   134.24 

135.27  136.14   136.30   137.8 
140.13   144.4   150.8   150.10 

150.22  151.24   159.6   162.17 
162.21   162.28   165.5   165.15 

165.17  169.30   174.2   174.17 

174.26  176.25   179.22   182.30 

185.19  187.20   199.14   208.24 
212.7   212.10   212.20   216.6 

216.24  219.3   219.12   220.29 

221.13  223.6   223.27   226.22 

227.5  227.6      228.7      230.1 

230.18  232.9   237.8   238.19 

253.3  253.5   257.18   271.5 

272.3  272.14   272.29   273.7 

280.10  281.3  281.5  281.11 
282.9   283.15   284.6   284.16 

285.2  287.11   287.13   287.13 

291.11  292.26   299.10   300.24 

301.28  302.3   303.25   310.22 

323.14  323.19   327.28   339.20 

342.21  342.24   346.4   348.20 

357.15  358.16   359.23   359.24 

359.27  360.28   361.5   361.18 

363.4  364.7   364.7   364.16 

364.22  367.26   368.24   379.21 
386.9   388.12   390.9   394.6 

396.6  400.25   400.27   403.24 

404.28  405.1   405.26   406.19 
408.15   411.26   411.29   411.30 

412.3  413.7   413.8   416.17 
417.13   418.12   419.13   419.21 
420.3   420.8 

Menander  238.21 

Mencius  280.16 

mend  132.19   324.36 

mender  325.1 

mending  86.29   132.20   227.30 

menial  282.31 

men's    77.31      79.16      79.24      117.9 

177.19  365.5   366.31 
mention  89.23   312.5   396.24 
mentions  27.15 

Menu  140.12   156.8   159.29   412.25 

merchant  117.12   148.26 

merchants  154.3 

mere  10.12   30.27   36.4   56.17 
71.10   89.28   93.22   196.5 
210.11   223.11   237.11   274.9 
284.1   326.12   363.14   364.15 

387.7  408.20 

merely  23.16   35.27   47.33   93.11 

100.7  132.22   136.7   142.8 

149.25  198.22  275.5  283.4 
285.22  291.13  293.2  293.9 
311.18   346.26   347.26   348.31 

349.5  350.12   364.11   389.28 
395.24   400.16   408.22 

meridian  319.26   340.19 
merit  111.17   111.19   239.30 

288.8  388.28   394.29   399.19 
merrily  119.6   237.5   245.12 

384.13 


Merrimack  4.6   8.10   19.24 
35.17   62.20   63.29   80.21 
81.16   81.18   81.24   85.22 
88.15   90.21   90.25   113.6 

127.20  150.26   151.15   169.18 
170.7   174.23   174.25   177.2 

181.4  189.7   200.17   202.7 

203.18  204.7   204.23   207.1 

209.21  210.20   225.9   225.17 

225.19  226.7   227.10   227.22 

232.5  251.4   251.19   259.25 
259.29   260.30   263.13   269.5 

269.24  271.16  274.25  309.8 
321.29  322.3  334.28  342.16 
345.27   353.26   354.25   357.7 

373.25  385.6   391.18   391.21 
Merrimack  River  122.12   122.16 
meshes  72.8 

mess  30.28   98.17   151.18 
message  95.11   185.18   185.19 

290.5 
messengers  96.18 
met  34.27   35.21   123.28   154.10 

206.26  215.2   222.9   238.15 
253.16   257.28   333.30   382.27 
384.17 

metals  24.1 
metamorphoses  372.15 
metamorphosis  251.30 
metaphorical  386.27 
meteorological  195.7 
meteors  104.15 
methinks  28.1   31.4   35.10 
54.12   70.18   93.25   115.7 

160.5  250.20 

method  22.15   32.5   100.14 

108.21   388.3 
Methodist  308.24 
methods  94.14   381.5 
Mexico  135.15 
Miantonimo  85.5 
miasma  137.9 

mice  5.27   119.18   196.28 
Michilimackinac  292.7 
microscopic  319.12 
mid-afternoon  20.3 
mid-air  48.11   96.13 
mid-channel  213.2   223.16 
midday  42.18 
middle  28.20   53.22   117.15 

190.6  193.31   205.25   221.16 
248.14   251.3   274.13   285.5 
334.2   338.17 

Middlesex  62.20   77.23   80.22 

226.1   385.16 
midnight  180.25   196.12   255.2 

355.3 
midst  56.5   81.13   106.27 

107.7  152.17   158.24   179.24 
179.26   191.7   255.8   261.3 
374.10 

midstream  117.20 
midsummer  156.29   377.23 
midwinter  107.11 
mightier  97.29   314.29 
mighty  354.29 
migrate  59.22 
migrated  22.30 
migrating  35.30   359.25 
migrations  30.21   32.8 
migratory  32.23   91.25 
mikania  43.23 
milch  359.18 
mild  12.10   45.10   123.15 


mild  (cont . ) 


46 


mortals 


mild  (cont.)  214.4   416.20 

milder  391.19 

mildew  202.25   363.18 

mile  4.10   8.1   12.23   20.13 
20.28   38.28   81.26   82.3 
87.16   116.31   122.2   153.9 
167.21   168.8   177.2   194.5 
208.19   210.13   212.29   213.25 
222.21   226.5   226.18   227.26 

228.3  232.1   235.11   247.10 
256.2   260.9   260.31   269.4 

273.15  273.17   274.1   307.24 
miles  10.3   38.7   62.19   85.27 

85.28   89.2   89.3   89.5   177.5 

185.11  189.21   189.29   190.30 

191.12  192.15   198.6   210.11 

211.13  214.6   216.23   225.20 
250.28   252.3   260.21   269.5 
271.2   271.9   273.19   307.12 

319.6  322.3   322.20   325.19 

342.4  342.17   343.7   372.19 
385.17   390.13   420.16 

Miles  Howard  71.23 
Miles  Standish  124.17 
military  105.31   264.16   334.3 

334.7 
militia  33.20   268.30 
milk  75.21   127.13   302.1   325.15 
milking  220.15 
milking-pail  219.20 
milking-stool  304.19 
milkweed  357.27 
milky  ways  353.9 
mill  52.14   168.22   190.7 

247.2   259.26 
million  122.6 
millions  251.8 
mill-ponds  89.15 
mills  311.10 
millstones  105.24 
mill-stream  105.26   177.3 
Milton  328.8   345.14   363.20 

391.26   399.2 
Milton's  397.29 
mimics  94.14 
Mimnermus  238.20 
mind  49.2   61.20   97.12   109.8 

111.9   146.18   170.17   239.22 

281.25   296.5   310.25   314.13 

332.7  358.19   374.8   383.12 

383.16  385.28   387.9   411.16 

412.17  413.14   413.18 
mindful  347.24 

minds  120.1   137.31   140.30 

154.2   265.15   343.16   348.12 
372.1 

mine  28.12   192.6   301.12 

302.5  373.24 

Minerva  65.18   79.28   264.30 
mingle  81.21   97.16 
mingled  18.31   19.15   87.9 

152.31   266.24   302.1   348.29 

375.31 
mingling  52.17   138.14   170.6 

214.31 
minister  29.31   76.34   77.23 

268.17   273.11   405.8 
ministers  123.3 
minks  84.19   119.17 
minnow  24.7   28.20 
minnows  24.28   24.31   27.27 

31.30   48.30 
minstrel  238.11 
minstrelsy  319.19 


mint  21.27   26.9   95.3 

minute  319.8 

minutely  260.11   349.10 

minutes  66.12 

Minyas  97.1 

miracle  289.5   311.15   345.5 
350.23 

miraculous  32.30   67.15   284.31 

mirage  201.2 

mirror  45 . 3 

mirror-like  47.24 

misapplied  408.13 

mischief  268.3   318.6 

miserable  232.11   237.22 

miserably  236.31 

misfortune  108.3 

misgivings  173.16 

misjudge  395.19 

miss  106.18 

missed  19.1   62.32   116.4 

misses  368.22 

missing  164.12 

missionaries  150.13 

missionary  60.3 

Mississippi  10.24 

mist  42.3   122.18   161.27   188.14 
197.24   200.31   202.12   202.27 
314.10   314.11   318.1   318.10 
319.1   354.5   357.7   367.27 
371.2 

mistake  79.8   387.20   392.17 

mistaken  36.20   66.6   73.6   398.15 

mistakes  300.28 

mistaking  58.20 

mistress  56.7   191.29   404.22 

418.17  418.17 
mists  367.11 

misty  95.1   198.14   198.16 

368.9  393.11 
misunderstanding  295.11   300.15 
misunderstood  107.20 

mixed  174.17   387.10   387.11 

moccasined  10.5 

moccasin-print  16.25 

moccasins  53.9 

mode  91.15   221.1   388.2 

model  13.8   13.21 

moderation  7.30   231.1   348.13 

modern  57.6   62.26   97.9   102.12 

106.30  107.5   107.7   142.29 
149.8   149.11   149.22   153.28 

154.31  155.12   157.14   157.16 
158.22   162.24   163.3   195.23 

238.19  239.15   266.4   389.22 
394.5   395.30   396.6   396.29 

402.10  411.24   411.29 
modernize  163.13 
moderns  60.23   97.25 

modes  136.18   155.12   164.17 

379.19 
modesty  111.23   330.26   330.29 
modulate  94.18 
modulated  285.14 
Mohawk  2  32.31 
Mohawks  232.30   261.9 
moist  86.3   194.12   202.29   218.25 
moisten  325.12 
molasses  197.20 
mole  419.30 
moles  5.27 
moment  26.24   29.27   99.27   161.14 

161.18  219.1   239.14   253.15 
260.16   310.10   328.27   357.18 

361.20  375.23   383.24 


momentarily  231.22 

momentous  253.25 

moments  117.28   130.3   394.7 

moment's  409.15 

Mona-day  67.2 

Monadnock  173.25 

monarchies  346.14 

Monday  19.23   123.2   126.30 

money  208.4   208.16   303.22 

311.23 
monopolize  75.15 
monotonous  417.22 
monotonously  252.25 
monotony  211.11   221.29 
monster  117.27   135.4   328.15 
monsters  36.9 
monstrous  117.19 
Montaup  85.6 

month  32.16   35.16   363.17 
months  33.28   314.9 
month ' s  110.3 
monument  161.19   177.19   177.27 

178.1   269.2   269.8   269.12 
monuments  49.17   177.18   264.4 

264.16   280.6   303.24   392.10 
mood  78.17   375.19   391.15 

417.14 
moods  183.22   405.12 
moon  10.26   10.29   40.21   57.10 

71.25   105.20   134.9   250.16 

255.6  278.3   347.28   376.10 

404.20  411.18   412.5 
Moonee  144.16 
moonlight  255.5 

Moore  2  51.6 

moored  38.8   223.4   322.20 

383.2 
Moore's  Falls  245.6   245.11 
moors  225.22 
Moose-hillock  86.9 
moose-meat  343.18 
moping  249.19 
moral  74.10   74.11   79.10 

141.11   142.9   148.9   156.7 

230.7  386.6   386.22   386.24 
386.29   387.15   393.25   394.5 

morality  75.10   140.15   142.12 

386.7   387.2   406.29 
morals  129.8 
more   #289 

moreover  116.9   195.18 
morning  12.8   17.19   19.6   42.1 

42.7   42.16   45.5   56.25 

58.28  60.3      71.13      78.29 

89.29  90.4   106.20   108.23 

120.9  122.17   131.15   134.24 
138.16   155.16   161.8   161.13 

164.29  165.10   185.10   185.16 

185.21  188.5   189.19   198.5 

199.10  204.6   212.25   219.11 
220.3   222.14   225.24   232.6 
237.5   249.1   251.26   253.13 

255.13  303.7   303.15   314.11 
317.1   317.7   340.12   342.28 

343.14  361.21   377.30   391.20 

393.30  394.2   394.6   394.12 
mornings  157.2 

morning' s  203 . 9 

morrow  19.22   141.11   215.17 

217.13 
mortal  65.16   168.26   285.2 

404.1 
mortality  138.8   178.17 
mortals  118.4   142.9   154.24 


mortals  (cont.) 


47 


narrowness 


mortals  (cont.)  263.20 
mortars  84.31 
mortification  291.24 
Mosaic  346.11 
Moses  78.21 
mosquito  319.29 
mosquitoes  319.19 
moss  245.27   303.25   318.25 

339.16   374.18   396.3 
moss-bed  8.14 
moss-beds  319.23 
moss-grown  49.17   374.11 
moss-like  210.24 
mossy  18.2 
most   #142 
mother  78.30   326.19   346.25 

347.2  399.1   404.2 
mother's  79.1   359.5 
motion  25.25   133.8   200.27 

222.25  274.6   340.7 
motionless  29.16 
motions  273.23   338.30   384.20 

384.26  406.27 
motive  362.18 
mottled  26.10 
motto  149.31   332.1 
mould  160.17   160.24   265.26 

375.28 
mouldering  136.5   251.29 
mound  45.24   162.19   209.18 
mounds  336.8 
mount  358.13 
mountain  10.13   23.29   103.9 

105.10  156.22   169.15   189 

190.3  190.18   191.15   192. 

192.27  193.26  197.8  197. 
197.13   200.11   202.1   202. 

209.21  211.25  212.8  213. 
216.2   219.14   255.12   260. 

312.22  373.1   381.14 
mountainous  213.12   217.14 
mountains  10.26   10.29   23.12 

71.24   86.3   86.7   96.17   1 

169.29  169.31  170.14  173 
173.26  189.8  190.5  192.2 
193.2  193.4  198.13  200.8 
202.1   213.3   213.27   214.1 

214.30  217.22  219.17  220 
237.21  263.15  303.30  304 
309.21   312.31   322.9   333. 

334.23  335.1  370.1  373.1 
373.12   384.19   390.14 

mountain-side  213.31 

mountain-top  76.37   195.31 
373.15   405.16 

mountain-tops  138.19 

Mount  Auburn  178.27 

Mount  Calvary  68.2 

Mount  Ktaadn  28.17 

Mount  Saber  130.16 

mourners  303.21 

mourning  264.22 

Mourzouk  153.26 

mouth  28.27   29.21   31.25   36.5 
89.4   89.10   89.19   136.19 
167.26   169.8   169.10   169.22 
175.26   202.25   210.7   232.3 

235.11  253.10  259.26  309.7 
309.15  337.18  341.27  342.4 
357.6   375.3   384.15 

mouths  30.8   31.14   35.25   405.20 
movable  222.1 
moved  22.14   49.1   274.3 
movement  25.19   222.27 


381.8 


27 
25 
10 
17 
19 
7 


61.16 

21 
0 

3 

.10 

.4 

26 

0 


movements  80.28   362.16 
moves  338.15   401.23 
moving  5.22   29.16   116.1 

222.19   235.22   355.3 
mower  34.15   37.20 
mowing  205.5   223.16 
Mr.  James  Parker  232.12 
Mr.  John  Hales  112.9 
Mr.  Jorge  Rodunnonukgus  233.25 
Mr.  Lund  208.20 
Mrs.  Dustan  168.30 
much   #96 
muck-worm  21.26 
mud  30.3   31.3   85.2   228.30 

249.19  250.23   420.19 
muddy  10.17   20.21 
muffled  374.24 

mug  215.26   215.30   216.1 

mules  313.1 

mullein  52.22 

mulleins  314.15 

multitude  78.22 

mummies  128.20 

munitions  334.17 

murderer  135.7 

murmur  10.1   17.16   62.4   90.6 

214.31   264.7   315.2 
murmured  187.18 
murmuring  86.2   97.1   213.29 
murmurs  10.7   180.14   247.1 

314.20 
Musaeus  238.18 
muse  56.20   162.3   162.19   199.12 

329.16   329.26   393.21   398.3 
Muse  231.17   328.1   328.11   392.6 

393.27   393.30   404.18 
muses  86.14   252.29 
Muses  59.6   109.20 
Muses'  103.9 
museum  128.20   260.25 
mushrooms  276.2 
music  39.31   40.12   58.23   94.19 

181.16   182.23   182.31   183.2 

183.20  183.21   183.25   184.9 
185.14   203.23   203.25   211.13 
238.10   285.14   303.8   327.29 
328.13   350.18   350.20   407.12 
417.23 

musical  108.27   119.24 

musically  94.1 

musing  213.13 

musk  308.8   381.23 

musket  334.3 

Musketaquid  3.1   8.11 

muskrat  52.12   179.11   246.7 
344.6 

muskrats  5.24   84.20   119.17 
165.25   188.6 

musquash  39.18   128.5 

mussel  246.8 

Mussulman  160.4 

Mussulmans  210.2   285.31 

must  11.1   11.2   25.28   51.29 
63.18   65.2   71.13   74.26 
74.28   94.27   100.28   100.29 
105.22   108.2   108.29   116.29 
130.5   131.5   132.16   132.23 

138.21  146.13   153.8   157.24 
157.25   191.16   195.4   197.21 
200.16   204.19   209.12   217.15 
236.31   239.22   239.29   250.14 
250.21   263.7   264.3   266.30 
272.19   286.1   286.2   286.4 
286.4   288.27   290.10   299.29 


must  (cont.)  300.23   301.9 

304.16  311.19   315.24   326.16 
326.22   329.11   331.5   332.11 
332.26   346.8   348.7   361.17 
365.13   386.21   399.14   401.31 
403.3   403.17   411.22   414.15 
420.7 

muster  127.1   181.5   334.1 

mustered  181 . 9 

mutiny  278.11   409.13 

muttering  219.29 

mutual  291.13   300.28 

my   #167 

myriad  167.8   341.20   392.2 

myriads  30.16   32.17   36.8 

myself  11.26   21.12   54.13 
65.8   160.6   193.22   196.13 
199.1   199.21   200.13   213.24 
296.8   296.28   305.7   315.7 

319.11  346.27   409.30 
mysteries  71.19 

mysterious  30.20   182.27   224.15 

258.6  274.6   403.23 
mysteriously  167.28   222.31 
mystery  272.12   318.4 
mystic  141.21 

mysticism  350.15 
mythological  97.24 
mythologies  164.24 
mythology  59.20   60.11   60.18 

60.26      67.11      67.14      67.18 

97.25   281.14   293.15 
mythus  59.13   61.17   67.16 
Naamkeak  232.31 
Naiads  86.15 
nail  298.19   363.1   379.27 

380.7  380.9   380.12 
nails  110.31   266.1 
naked  43.21   67.23   301.12 

315.28   342.20   386.4 

Namaskeak  261.6 

name  3.6   26.19   27.20   31.14 
33.20   49.20   55.11   65.31 
85.25   86.13   88.4   138.21 
168.3   169.18   175.6   175.29 

176.12  178.8   198.3   207.19 

210.18  214.7   215.11   216.30 

238.19  253.12   259.30   271.12 

282.8  290.15   290.17   346.31 
366.19   393.11   396.18 

named  8.11   28.22   43.7   49.19 
68.13   137.14   174.18   322.17 
342.5 

nameless  211 . 22 

names  6.9   43.3   49.14   53.16 
54.22   59.2   59.4   60.22 
149.7   177.6   195.25   197.17 
213.10   230.20   233.27   257.24 
266.7   267.1   290.15   396.16 

nap  99.1 

Narcissus  58.25 

Narragansett  168.13 

narrative  94.9   392.9 

narratives  347.8 

narrow  88.19   120.2   189.6 

253.17  260.3   376.18   393.2 
413.5 

narrowed  331.16 

narrower  113.18   275.29   340.5 

397.23 
narrowing  190.23   294.12 
narrow-leaved  18.3 
narrowness  148.22   214.15 

294.25 


narrows 


48 


New  Jersey 


narrows  253.22   254.6 

Nashua  87.7   89.6   89.24   115.29 
116.6   151.1   152.20   167.21 
168.5   169.10   169.17   169.19 

169.27  170.5   173.19   173.31 

175.25  179.6   375.3   380.3 
391.21 

Nashville  175.29   179.13 

Nathan  308.6 

Nathan's  335.13 

Naticook  204.9 

Naticook  Brook  227.11 

nation  147.11   303.29 

nations  11.9   35.31   56.21   59.8 

59.30  66.4   72.21   130.13 
138.30   141.15   150.5   177.22 
264.8   272.21   283.10   294.15 
310.13   383.29 

native  19.31   26.6   26.25   28.10 

36.31  37.19   52.17   55.14 
102.17   102.24   124.27   149.5 

156.22  173.25   269.12   271.10 
294.20   322.16   334.27   372.21 

379.13  381.24   382.1   394.15 

398.14  416.13   420.18 
natives  12.2   224.18   307.30 

418.2 
natural  5.31   11.5   11.9   23.15 

40.19  45.4   48.14   48.15 
50.21   84.21   85.21   89.16 
92.27   94.6   95.11   99.22 
100.11   100.30   104.19   106.28 
115.30   120.8   158.17   163.4 

195.1  196.2   217.27   231.27 

239.29  252.20   263.24   285.25 
287.10   287.14   291.8   296.7 

303.10  330.5   334.13   337.14 

340.23  358.17   360.2   370.4 

379.11  386.24   393.18   395.16 

395.28  400.6   402.8   405.1 
412.17   412.31 

naturalist  130.17   387.13 

naturalists  388.31 

naturalist's  23.19 

naturalized  22.12   405.5 

naturally  48.3   58.14   94.6 
95.1   105.30   142.3   183.22 
212.19   222.25   230.16   235.19 
280.10   287.7   287.19   289.14 

338.26  339.7   341.10   358.19 
360.13 

naturalness  94.28   107.4   111.13 

230.27  398.5 

nature  5.16   7.3   12.10   16.26 
18.29   21.5   23.6   23.8   23.10 
23.13   23.26   24.13   24.18 

32.20  34.9   35.22   45.2   47.26 

48.21  49.22   54.11   55.15 

56.1  56.3   56.14   56.27   63.2 
63.7   65.14   74.12   77.14 
93.19   94.24   94.25   94.30 

95.2  100.13   100.15   111.22 
111.26   111.30   112.21   112.29 

112.30  117.9   130.4   132.3 
132.13   156.26   162.20   167.4 
167.13   178.20   179.3   179.28 

183.28  190.12   195.6   195.25 
202.19   205.23   217.26   217.30 

218.2  218.8   221.27   228.30 

229.10  236.12   236.26   237.27 

246.29  249.12   250.13   256.31 

258.12  262.13   264.11   265.16 
265.26   265.30   272.2   287.6 

289.11  293.1   293.10   296.14 


nature  (cont.)  302.5   303.10 

303.14  309.1   329.10   329.20 
336.16   336.20   336.28   336.31 
337.8   337.12   337.14   339.9 
339.11   339.13   339.25   340.20 

341.20  344.24   349.6   350.11 

355.6  359.19   360.4   361.15 

368.8  372.28   372.30   374.4 
377.19   379.22   380.20   381.4 

381.10  387.1   388.1   388.27 
388.31   389.4   398.25   398.31 

400.7  401.6   403.12   404.1 

405.9  405.13   406.14   408.20 

409.15  409.16   415.19 
natures  136.14   290.20   311.5 

370.26   399.23   407.1 

nature's  34.16   40.30   319.9 
393.28 

naught  20.7   404.27 

nauseating  105.18 

naval  228.5   333.25 

navigable  89.1   224.3 

navigation  48.16   100.27 

navigator  92.27 

navigators  150.16   379.12 

navy  414.15 

nay  67.3   108.1   115.21   326.13 
402.2 

near  8.3   20.26   22.12   25.6 

34.11       39.24      45.26      68.8       74.22 
82.4      85.23       90.19      90.20 
113.19      115.25      117.16      117.24 

119.7  119.14   119.19   128.24 

136.8  152.28   164.1   169.8 
169.22   174.24   179.12   179.19 
187.15   190.6   194.13   199.6 

203.18  208.23   214.27   219.21 
220.1   225.23   227.16   232.3 

233.1  245.14   250.30   251.20 

256.3  260.1   268.28   271.7 

321.26  322.7   350.23   357.14 

385.11  411.21 

nearer  38.5   147.15   190.16 

203.27  213.22   213.22   279.9 
373.15   377.11   416.12   418.10 

nearest  30.11   107.31   113.3 
127.8   156.20   209.21   257.12 
372.22 

nearly  4.10   18.15   101.8   116.31 
118.31   134.19   149.3   166.6 

263.14  353.26   385.20 
neat  215.15   359.18 
nebulae  104.17 
necessaries  34.6   165.12 
necessarily  99.10   285.27 
necessar ius  291.5 
necessary  68.10   98.17   116.8 

192.2  210.4   220.26   292.8 

329.4  381.5   409.15 
necessities  117.9 

necessity  108.3   108.17   229.27 

287.6   300.25   394.11 
neck  250.25 
nectar  287.30   365.6 
need  22.22   64.22   68.17   94.4 

98.2   98.29   100.3   124.17 

128.21  129.26   131.16   132.11 

161.19  179.28   193.10   212.12 

227.5  264.12   273.11   282.26 

289.15  304.7   344.4   406.7 
408.7 

needed  158.8   267.3   327.25 
needs  94.16   229.27   304.16 

311.6  311.11   348.7   367.17 


needs  (cont.)  405.5 
negative  399.21 
neglect  220.7   350.2 
neglected  354.17   394.31 
neglectful  330.25 
neglecting  332.29 
negligence  332.3 
negro  359.14 
neighbor  30.11   136.7   136.20 

263.29  282.16   284.10   304.14 
324.1   329.31 

neighborhood  21.10   180.30 
284.24   348.7 

neighboring  16.22   33.2   56.26 
113.21   170.4   202.4   204.16 
208.6   217.16   217.23   219.30 
235.21   382.3 

neighbors  28.24   72.26   73.8 
90.23   131.17   196.17   217.11 
217.18   221.4   268.2   283.5 

284.5  284.18   304.1   363.29 
neighbors'  342.14 

neither  43.13   49.10   54.5 

81.1   113.6   136.30   163.2 

215.28   216.31   279.8   391.11 

394.10 
Nemesis  59.6 
neottia  18.25 
Neptune  59.14 
nerve  55.3 
nerved  236.13 
nerveless  110.11 
nerves  240.3   343.26   418.23 
nervous  109.16   341.30 
Nesenkeag  206.28 
Nesenkeag  (Little)  206.30 
Nesenkeag  Stream  (Great)  206.29 
nest  24.30   26.3 
Nestor  66.17   160.11 
Nestor's  96.21 
nests  24.20   24.23   25.1   25.6 

25.9   25.30   31.9   31.26 

420.13 
net  107.27 
nets  87.19   166.10 
never   #138 
never-failing  40.30 
never-sinking  246.10 
nevertheless  37.25   50.23 

135.1   196.25   236.10   237.3 

255.15   281.12   420.12 
Neville's  Cross  394.21 
new   #81 
Newbury  8  7.15 
Newburyport  8  7.27   88.5   89.7 

89.23   90.1 
Newcastle  England  22.5 
New  Concord  322.14 
New  England  44.7   73.30   93.2 

132.6  140.14   157.16   173.22 
176.14   226.28   256.23   257.21 
261.21 

New  England  Gazetteer  234.1 

newer  293.14 

newest  160.27 

Newfound  (Lake)  89.14 

Newfound  Lake  87.4 

New  Hampshire  76.36   85.17 
88.22   89.3   127.27   151.22 
191.8   200.28   211.18   268.15 

268.30  322.13   322.23   377.8 
New  Hampshire  Historical 

Collection  207.20 
New  Jersey  190.20 


new-made 


49 


obscure 


new-made  257.8 

news  19.22  98.8  134.1  181.26 
185.25  185.27  222.29  226.1 
226.8  253.25  270.30  280.29 
291.2   326.28   382.23   384.11 

news-boats  253.16 

newsman  253.21 

newspaper  132.6   384.9 

newspapers  194.24   253.29   326.31 

New  Testament  72.3   72.29   73.11 
74.8   75.1   142.2   142.11 

146.8  150.7 
Newton  389.30 
Newtons  391.4 
New  World  279.10 

New  York  67.30   173.22   191.2 
194.25   198.3   253.20 

next  8.25   52.6   111.18   134.3 
176.10   191.27   219.11   295.28 
308.12   325.12   355.9   360.23 

385.5  413.1 
Niagara  301.30 

nibble  25.15   25.29   150.22 

nibbled  196.31   197.1 

nibbler  28.26 

nibbling    27.6      28.27 

nice    397.26 

niggardly  339.12 

nigh  54.17 

nigher  54.18 

night  5.2  6.15  13.6  30.4 
37.30  38.18  38.20  39.2 
39.14  39.24  39.29  40.1 
40.2  40.11  40.25  95.20 
97.2  106.6  108.23  119.20 
119.23  119.29  119.30  120.6 
122.25   138.17   173.23   173.29 

179.9  181.2   181.3   181.10 

186.1  187.13   188.4   192.23 

197.2  197.31   219.7   222.14 
225.21   225.30   230.1   248.13 

255.6  255.9   257.23   288.29 
307.17   308.21   309.10   315.4 

317.3  317.13   326.22   336.18 

341.4  344.31   346.9   354.6 
354.20   355.7   356.11   376.20 
377.30   381.19   383.11   417.24 

nightfall  108.31   167.29   213.24 

326.28 
night-fogs  250.17 
nightingale  394.3 
nightly  347.28 
nights  40.22   196.18   308.18 

403.18 
Nile  3.2   10.24   78.20   103.13 

127.23   380.22 
Nile-like  91.1 
nimble  121.3 
nimbly  63.25 
nine  5.2   7.34   109.20   174.25 

175.12  210.11   233.26   260.23 
325.28   380.17   411.18 

Nine-Acre-Corner  5.13 
ninepence  219.13 
nineteenth  346.29 
ninety-four  269.2 
ninth  346.28 
no   #257 
Noachian  65.7 
nobility  108.14 

noble  6.15  56.7  81.31  137.31 
139.8   155.26   190.15   220.28 

294.13  294.28 
nobleman  287.24 


nobleness  275.20   284.8 
nobler  48.18   159.15   284.6 

284.17   288.15   362.5   403.24 

405.17 
noblest  142.24   182.29   293.22 
nobly  191.27   284.11 
nobody  22.29   22.29   192.17 

312.17 
nocturnal  54.7 
nod  259.8 

noise  29.31   223.2   226.29 
noiseless  384.28 
noiselessly  17.20   221.30 
noisy  384.28   419.18 
nonchalance  132.3   197.20 
none  56.28   73.15   122.30   123.1 

148.24   149.23   204.12   204.12 

280.14   280.29   281.8   284.7 

294.27  294.28   294.28   299.13 
327.23   349.12   350.14   363.14 

364.3  411.8 
nonsense  406.30 

noon  21.23   29.15   38.22   40.29 
80.21   81.25   127.22   133.21 
150.30   153.11   213.6   222.10 

225.28  227.10   230.8   234.4 

235.17  235.23   256.13   257.10 

330.18  335.24   336.10   336.14 
346.2   353.27   361.21   376.2 
385.21   416.21 

noonday  61.21  341.4 
nooning  92.13  130.5 
noontide  130.14   153.15   156.29 

226.26   230.5   235.27 
nor   #73 
normal  409.3 
Norman  53.15 
Norman  Conaueror  346.28 
Normans  368.30 
north  4.2   4.4   20.5   37.25 

85.15   158.14   173.30   190.5 

227.21   322.10   323.30   335.29 

384.22 
North  Adams  189.21 
North  Bridge  16.23 
northeast  4.4   10.3   322.10 
northeasternmost  271.9 
northern  56.10   353.25   366.15 

416.31 
northernmost  344.9 
Northumberland  22.17 
northward  64.19 
northwest  6.7   90.14   126.26 

231.25 
nostrils  79.13 
not   #766 
notwithstanding  20.3   73.10 

139.4  148.16   298.20   301.1 
332.4   392.31 

notable  268.28 

notch  85.24   380.14 

notches  334.21 

note  240.4   256.4 

notes  40.17   44.17   159.10   183.25 

nothing  4.29   45.30   111.15   112.1 

134.13  135.28   142.8   147.2 
162.17   168.18   176.28   177.23 

178.29  196.19   217.2   225.10 
263.21   272.25   285.21   285.27 
293.9   300.20   304.22   305.8 
309.28   332.14   362.9   383.4 

387.14  397.4   401.29   406.3 
notice  47.30   143.6   165.23 

225.26 


noticed  63.26   153.3   177.8 

209.14  209.19   227.18 

262.17  311.5   339.18 
notion  349.14   386.19 
Nottingham  151.2   161.2   175.3 
nouns  59.4 

novel  72.19   98.30   372.18 

novelists  281.16 

novels  281.15 

novelties  112.28 

novelty  39.16   218.2 

November  303.5   379.3 

now   #170 

nowadays  77.27   156.11   359.28 

nowhere  142.13   309.17   405.1 

405.30 
nucleus  390.23 
number  71.18   160.14   161.28 

254.9   254.16   293.21   389.17 
numbers  23.15   85.3   91.30 

294.2 
numerable  294.4 
numerous  4.14   88.18   91.3 

318.17 
nurse  35.13   342.3   342.9 

342.18  342.29   346.28 
nursed  205.10 

nursery  59.20   59.21   123.25 

381.31 
nut  205.30   206.5 
Nutfield  268.26 
nutmeg  99.29 
nutriment  400.28 
nutritious  327.5 
nuts  55.29   123.8   400.8 
nymph  65.24 
oak  44.30   94.6   119.14   121.4 

158.29   205.12   208.18   266.17 

301.12   381.27 
oak-leaf  99.29 
oaks  6.2   8.13   38.26   167.11 

235.12   246.16   353.31   355.1 

366.15  374.30   375.30 

oar  78.16   221.8   221.17   257.15 

361.24   420.17 
oars  13.3   13.14   14.14   20.27 

81.26  130.8   245.12   252.25 
274.20   336.1   337.17   388.21 

391.16  417.23 
oases  153.25   401.22 
oats  204.25   320.6 
obedience  53.3   350.8   360.12 
obedient  33.10   291.8   330.21 
obey  35  3.3 

obeyed  13.19 

obeys  336.28   399.27 

object  48.1   48.4   77.24   142.9 

239.29   283.25   347.30   390.10 

399.8   413.2 
objection  163.23 
objects  11.25   21.1   45.23 

45.27  189.12   197.19   201.1 
252.20   328.19   347.19   367.19 
372.15   376.19   383.20   401.22 
412.16 

obligation  287.24   383.28 

obligations  354.16 

obliged  116.11   119.16   202.23 

230.14   305.8   362.14   374.24 

376.26   391.8 
obliterates  211.1 
oblivion  161.24 
oblong  262.24 
obscure  85.15 


American  Transcendental  Quarterly 
journal  of  new  england  writers 

DRAWER    1080 
HARTFORD,   CONNECTICUT     06101 

12 

^                                    PART    TWO 


obscured 


SO 


Ostia 


obscured  12.7 
obscurity  164.8 
observance  101.8 
observant  201.18 
observation  22.1   158.9   176.6 
221.27   350.10   388.2   388.4 

388.22  389.11   412.19 
observations  23.19 
observatory  193.31   194.18   197.4 

388.10 
observe  24.13   59.7   122.26 

129.7  282.14   289.16   344.12 
381.15 

observed  19.14   25.9   28.18 
30.12   115.18   127.16   163.9 
169.6   193.1   214.27   227.23 

249.9  261.31   322.23   326.6 
372.1   389.17 

observer  262.4 

observers  64.1   388.18 

observes  294.22 

observing  217.3   324.21   325.3 

obstacle  71.5   288.24   289.20 

obstacles  11.10   134.21   135.24 

193.8  262.5   300.17   362.19 
obstruct  135.23   239.11 
obstructed  169.23   271.18 
obstruction  69.20 

obtain  275.31   412.8 
obtained  236.2   315.9   365.27 

419.14 
obtaining  151.10 
obtrude  257.1   280.28 
obvious  156.25   393.25 
obviously  331.15 
occasion  69.5   74.16   111.5 

112.23  169.6   217.5   230.5 

289.30  332.16   332.16   348.21 
349.16   360.31 

occasional  11.24   318.31   395.24 

occasionally  17.20   18.26   32.9 
91.4   127.7   128.6   179.24 
189.16   247.14   256.14   335.29 
355.4   383.30   398.18 

occasioned  413.2 

occasions  7 . 32 

Occidental  147.2   147.11 

occupation  220.30 

occupied  192.30   205.1   214.8 

318.9  393.3   411.23 
occupies  402.13 

occupy  78.5   369.33   403.26 

occupying  285.7 

occur  318.17 

occurred  19.20   232.7   315.4 

occurs  31.5   33.23   413.2   415.14 

ocean  81.17   86.1   87.14   105.19 

113.10  128.16   156.3   158.14 
191.8   197.24   203.27   212.15 

223.31  253.5   254.7   255.5 

255.10  288.2   336.18   401.15 
Oceanides  166.12 

ocean's  213.22 

o'clock  5.2   188.10 

October  358.12   379.2   379.26 

403.25 
ode  328.5 

odes  239.19   328.31 
Odin  346.20 
odoriferous  379.13 
odors  407.22 
of   #3374 
off   #58 
offended  366.30 


offense  331.20 

offensive  79.13   155.11 

offer  69.18   98.11   265.16 
307.20   363.3 

offered  127.12   168.18   273.20 
287.4   382.26 

offering  89.17 

office  136.16   283.6   392.12 

officer  136.10   253.18 

officers  270.27 

often  11.16   22.13   27.2   30.27 
33.16   35.13   93.10   109.10 
148.16   196.24   203.21   282.4 
282.10   282.13   295.31   296.13 
310.26   363.28   365.18   386.25 

397.7  398.5   419.16 
oftener  99.10   104.13   281.3 
oftentimes  395.25 
oft-repeated  264.17 
ofttimes  388.28 

oil  69.19   116.12   165.12 

Oivana  370.4 

old   #102 

older  27.29   54.8   61.13   160.21 

266.8  327.25   367.12   388.31 
oldest  59.26   62.25   101.31 

160.10  160.28   164.14   179.20 
203.23   250.1 

old-fashioned  304.18 

Old  French  324.5 

Old  World  264.19 

Oliver  Cromwell  168.9 

Olympia  102.27 

Olympic    games    346.17 

ominous  317.2 

omit  290.8 

omitted  60.15   354.11 

on   #677 

once  4.28   39.18   45.28   73.19 
76.34   81.9   89.5   98.13   99.13 
110.22   116.23   116.24   129.12 
150.20   150.30   151.2   161.2 
161.3   165.27   166.11   166.16 
173.26   182.4   189.9   192.26 

197.1  204.7   207.27   210.20 
222.30   238.17   246.25   247.6 

247.11  252.13  263.10  264.5 
264.8   264.10   264.12   266.21 

271.2  273.12   304.17   305.11 

324.20  324.29  325.26  345.8 
362.1  378.29  380.31  381.18 
388.11   388.17   391.11   419.27 

one   #317 

one  half  227.8 

one  hundred  4.8   65.5   233.28 

one  hundred  and  eleven  8.23 

one  hundred  and  fifty  65.6 

one  hundred  and  forty-two  341.22 

344.28 
one  hundred  and  twenty  168.12 
one-idea'd  195.11- 
ones  28.17   52.17   59.1   78.15 

136.16  275.31  281.11  312.3 
327.1   347.22 

Onesicritus  137.10 

one's  72.9   108.22   134.23   146.26 

149.17  273.2   287.28   288.21 

294.21  319.16 
one  third  221.15 
one-winged  274.4 
only   #244 
Ontario  228.17 
onward  345.2 
oozed  203.12 


oozing  12.12 

opaque  48.2 

open  19.10   32.15   80.25   155.29 
208.25   219.7   221.2   226.12 
245.25   250.19   291.11   330.24 
346.1   373.5   374.9 

opened  214.1   252.12   256.28 
265.11   265.19   384.12 

opening  30.7   136.18   252.27 
344.6   361.28   369.8 

openings  107.3 

openly  32.27 

operations  339.28   388.31 

operculum  26.17 

Ophir  51.25 

opinion    272.24       394.14 

opinions  195.2   195.13 

opium  130.15 

opponents  131.7 

opportunity  319.8 

opposite  53.22   78.20   92.7 

116.18   122.1   122.23   169.13 
192.25   200.12   205.9   207.24 
227.16   227.25   244.32   248.16 
256.31   265.13   272.17   273.27 
273.29   307.16   309.7   353.26 

376.1  380.12   381.16 
oppress  97.12   120.1   177.16 
or   #565 

oracle  104.18   419.9   419.13 
oracles  132.23   149.26   157.17 
orator  323.21   419.5 
orbits  412.27   413.15   413.24 
orchard  52.4   53.25   55.30 

168.25  374.11 
ordained  77.25 
ordeal  157.19 

order  13.2   73.14   85.21   115.26 

133.2  138.23   329.4   348.2 
349.11 

orderly  162.28 

ordinary  77.6   201.2   337.12 

379.21   409.17   416.18 
ore  223.23   353.11 
Oreads  86.15 
organic  53.30   65.5 
organization  167.1   364.14 
organizations  308.27 
oriental  44.7   130.23   142.28 

147.1   147.10   149.7   222.12 

256.28   257.4   301.19   336.15 
orientalism  157.12 
origin  136.1   258.15   261.13 

262.3 
original  50.1   142.18   156.12 

164.26  195.28   363.10   379.11 
396.4   414.10 

originality  70.15 
originally  135.23   322.17 
originator  350.7 
Orinoko  127.24   198.16 
ornament  109.24   156.6 
ornaments  109.13   402.21 
Orpheus  50.2   97.23   97.23 

98.4   238.17   346.16   363.8 
osier  130.9 
Osiris  359.17 
ospreys  6.14 
Ossa  86.14 
Ossian  56.15   366.18   367.4 

369.4   369.31   371.10   371.25 

391.25   393.5   393.12 
Ossian 's  370.24 
Ostia  39.9 


ostlers 


51 


partial 


ostlers  327.10 
other   #125 


others  32.17   74 

.14   91. 

26 

100.7 

117.10 

150.6 

154.23 

175.10 

177.7 

223.31 

224.2 

262.19 

263.7 

296.28 

298.13 

315.29 

324.11 

348.15 

348.17 

350.12 

399.24 

other's  123.5   273.3   273.4 

282.14 

286.27 

286.28 

287.29 

otherwise  37.2 

L49.17 

246.27 

273.23 

289.29 

300.4 

Ottaway  230.21 

261.17 

otter  52. 

12 

Otternic 

Pond  169.12 

otter's  333.20 

ought  7  5 

15   216 

.18 

our   #594 

ours  25.27   97.9 

183.14 

246.25 

ourselves  14.29 

20.7   64.22 

105.25 

113.18 

131.8 

138.25 

150.15 

150.20 

151.8 

153.12 

164.7 

173.19 

193.23 

220.24 

224.18 

229.29 

230.7 

235.23 

252.8 

260.31 

273.14 

274.27 

281.16 

282.4 

288.28 

289.22 

293.29 

315.11 

315.14 

315.28 

373.6 

376.8 

391.  3 

400.16 


out   #159 

outcry  291.9 

outdoor  221.6   228.27 

outdoors  385.27 

outer  191.2 

outfit  248.2 

outgrow  49.18 

outgrown  195.17 

outlast  161.20 

outlaw  55.5 

outlet  250.27 

outline  170.14   372.23 

400.23   420.20 
outlines  20.6   161.27 
outlying  412.  28 
outmost  403.9   411.8 
outrage  136.14   147.8 
outraging  235.20 
outside  7.4   78.3 

374.31   407.9 
outskirts  279.11 
outspread  164.2 
outstanding  358.26 
outward  44.6   134.20 

256.23   287.23   290 

412.21   412.24 
outwardly  73.11 
outwards  295.28 
ova  23'.  27   24.29 
over   #149 
overawe  362.4 
overboard  68.19 
overcome  246.19 
overflowing  94.21 
overflown  88.21 
overflows  4.9 
overgrown  176.30 
overhanging  25.29 
overhead  5.24   179.15   205.26 

255.3   337.5   344.10   384.2 
overhung  43.19 
overlies  285.16 
overlook  158.21 

381.17 
overlooked  36.22 

392.19 


215.12   328.14 
409.19 

252.25 
.2   351.21 

339.13   418.14 

25.9   25.17 

122.21 


207.13 
252.30 


303 
33 


.25 
9.29 


166.4 
363.27   372.20 
102.9   194.1 


overlooking  177.2 
overnight  157.3 
overrun  8.18   43.!: 
oversee  298.14 
oversees  153.20 
overstep  111.23 


190.17 


44.11 


overtake 

133.12 

254.27 

overtook 

81.14 

119.13 

274.26 

overwhelming  65. 

31 

owing  7  5 

18   88. 

25   199. 

20 

owl  39.23   56.26 

own  3.13 

12.11 

22.17 

24.29 

33.14 

51.2   54.2   68. 

19   71.3 

87.2   90.23   101.18   101.23 

102.8 

107.5 

108.29 

111.11 

138.28 

141.6 

148.17 

158.12 

158.27 

162.27 

167.12 

170.15 

189.9 

191.24 

193.12 

193.18 

198.31 

200.12 

206.1 

222.26 

222.28 

247. 31 

250. 2C 

253.6 

265.23 

268.4 

274.20 

287.17 

294.23 

296.5 

296.21 

297.3 

308.4 

308.27 

312.22 

325.17 

328.3 

328.28 

342.14 

343.27 

346.25 

348.8 

348.15 

362.10 

373.20 

374.1 

376.4 

380.26 

384.27 

389.29 

396.15 

397.1 

397.24 

404.5 

419.24 

owned  3  3  5.15 

owner  226. 3   373 

.25 

owner ' s  215.11 

ox  54.16 

54.17 

56.1   110.17 

oxen  37.8   37.18 

237.22 

359.17 

ox-whip  216.13 

pace  347 

24 

Pacific  148.13 

224.22 

278.8 

22.14 

26.12 

44.29 

79.11 

157.2 

230.20 

294.24   345.7 


Pacific  Ocean  (of  Futurity)  312 

pacing  122.18 

pad  29.15   48.23 

paddle  224.23   245.20   344.4 

paddles  5.22   341.29 

paddling  81.20   341.24 

pads  17.21   20.23 

page  33.22   34.2 

105.22   107.10 

383.6 
pageantry  45.16 
pages  61.28   264.23 
pagoda  78.8 
paid  135.8   272.24 
pain  315.6 
pained  298.16 
painful  290.9 
pains  67.12   90.21   290.24 

310.22   310.23   322.11   387.21 
paint  245.31   340.21 
painted  12.20   191.13   3M..2 

407.16 
painter  340.21   418.30 
painters  149.16 
painting  161.11 
paints  159.12 
pair  235.28   282.20 
palace  78 . 21 
palaces  256.12 
palatable  327.4   361.16 
palate  400.30 
palates  237.29 
palaver  108.21   290.3 
pale  52.31   68.9   310.1 
Palenque  383.21 
paler  383.9 
paling  344.14 
palisade  43.15 


30 


358.31 


157.24   361.25 


65.25 


palm  25.22   103.4   158.30 

227.20   264.22 
palmed  99.12 
palms  109.7   278 

401.22 
palpable  360.3 
palpitation  40.5 
paltry  376.18 
pan  31 .  3 
Pan  59.1   65.22 
Panathenaea  360.6 
panels  166.18 
panorama  221 . 28 
pansy  305 . 3 
Pantheon  65.22 
panting  341.19 
pants  334.8   413.14 
paper  6.26   100.3   122.14 

166.14   194.31   195.4   196 

196.29   351.14   351.14 

365.27 
papers  64.6 
papyrus  337.3 
parade  33.11   398.31 
paradisaical  382.5 
paradise  198.10   362.14 
Paradise  Lost  345.14 
paradox  287.30 
parallel  61.10   204.22 

360.7   396.30   397.21 
paralyzed  146.11 
paraphernalia  360.6 
Parcae  59.5 
parched  85.7   237.29 
parchment  6.31 
pardoned  224.12 
pardoning  215.7 
parent  147.9 
parents  284.19 
parent ' s  78 . 31 
Parian  301.29 
paring  5.2   110.31 
parish  51 . 3 
parishes  123.3 
parks  106.31 
parleyed  211.26 
parlor  156.7   156.11 
parlors  6.16 
parodied  328.5 
parody  328.6 


365.23 


210.11 


343. IS 


part  4.2 

8.12 

12.19   32 

.10 

39.13 

48.28 

53.27   59 

.3 

62.21 

64.2  3- 

64.30   67 

.22 

75.17 

78.12 

79.13   85 

.13 

90.14 

90.27 

100.9   106.18 

112.16 

113.18 

115.30 

118.28 

139.9 

141.26 

148.7   149.15 

153.16 

163.7 

175.29 

178.21 

194.31 

195.4 

203.11 

204.24 

209.23 

211.18 

216.10 

218.6 

221.24 

228.29 

247.29 

253.6 

256.11 

261.10 

273.16 

281.17 

283.8 

284.15 

285.30 

291.9 

304.10 

307.13 

309.28 

315.24 

322.17 

326.9 

339.22 

341.25 

348.1 

353.26 

387.24 

393.27 

395.23 

396.31 

419.27 

partaken 

302.10 

parted  211.27 

parterres  55.28 

Parthenon  54.26 

164.5   266.4 

Parthian 

365.19 

partial  148.16 

164.18   178.6 

199.2 

348.31 

386.13 

387.7 

partial  (cont. 


52 


perfect 


partial  (cont.)  413.5 
partially  13.19   88.20 
particle  412.12 
particles  377.24 
parti-colored  226.18 
particular  28.13   61.16 
122.12   182.22   197.14 
264.11   269.17   282.31 
311.17   312.5   312.10 
364.2   388.15   397.17 
particularly  227 


136.30 


98.3 
255.16 
290.5 

312.16 

402.2 


,24 


26.8 
132.13 

218.29 
367.8 


31.7 
133.20 
247.13 


256.6 

particulars  128.19   380.27 
parties  80.29   192.8   210.19 

251.14   285.30   287.26   288.10 

290.28 
partitioned  45.11 
partridge  160.22 
parts  5.24   18.12 

100.9   105.11 

150.14   169.15 

267.21   349.3 
party  174.5   175.24   194.24 

208.21   236.14   295.18   318.9 
Pasaconaway  269.11 
Pasha  10.30 
pass  27.5   32.19 

217.25   260.22 

344.14   358.8 
passable  61 . 30 
passage  89.27   116.11   IE 

223.18   337.21   376.23 
passages  94.31   139.1   285.1 

395.30   399.28   399.31 
passed  17.29   18.27   19.5 

20.24   22.8   28.10   37.26 

43.1   48.9   49.8   63.28   87.19 

95.20   113.21   115.15   120.6 

126.24   152.15   169.17   173.23 


63.6   128.10 
281.27   310.8 


13.3 
390.8 


177.5 

191.14 

191.19 

192.11 

194.12 

198.22 

200.23 

202.25 

206.23 

206.26 

215.1 

215.13 

227.10 

245.5 

251.1 

>53.9 

254.25 

257.4 

257.26 

257.31 

259.27 

269.14 

273.31 

274.26 

275.15 

275.17 

319.20 

330.1 

333.27 

334.30 

353.23 

357.6 

357.14 

377.8 

382.15 

416.13 

assenger 

122.21 

assengers  116.4 

324.24 

passes  20.9   28.28   104.9   356.13 
passing  206.9   211.17   211.30 
239.13   245.11   252.30   273.14 
309.9   324.29   372.2   393.9 


30 


passion  239.27   328.30   400.24 

passionate  290.27 

passions 

213.30 

passport 

326.17 

past  7.1 

11.24   14.4   14.13 

17.18 

18.29   27.8   49.2   81. 

92.16 

133.1   133.18   153.30 

162.2 

162.12   162.12   162.14 

163.28 

163.29   223.1   228.27 

253.16 

254.6   260.11   269.1 

277.26 

310.31   334.10   375.2 

379.25 

383.29 

pastime 

326.8 

pastimes 

359.13 

pastor  177.10 

pastoral 

118.6   226.24   228.5 

392.8 

pasturage  8.25 

pasture 

24.3   49.25   102.17 

153.13 

204.24   205.5   219.30 

246.18 

317.12   374.9   417.16 

pastured  86.14   235.11 
pasture-ground  16.2 
pasture-grounds  246.12 
pastures  87.18   101.24 
317.5   358.4   377.6 


198.11 
395.17 


patch  13.1 

335.13 
patches  118 

381.22 
patented  99.24 
patents  323.18 
path  11.11 

135.24 

192.18 

199.5 

249.7 

318.20 

353.21 


256.17   308.10 


30   205.5   377.15 


311.19   312.8 
338.15   338.26 


311.17 
6 

40.6   151.5 

252.12 


113.2   120.2   124.13 
189.29   191.21   192.16 
192.31   193.5   194.5 
206.23   214.9   246.18 
299.30 
333.19 
383.18 

pathetic  55.7   326.7   411.19 

pathetically  35.18 

pathos  398.17 

paths  55.27   212.8 

patience  67.15   193 

patient  32.19   37.1 
246.18   250.12 

patiently  35.18   146.10 
412.1 

patriot  204.29 

patriotism  264.28 

Patroclus  96.26 

patron  183.21 

pattered  317.3 

pattern  63.17 

patting  257.14 

Paugus  346.7 

paulo-post  266.14 

pauper  293.19 

pause  19.26   39.26   217.12 

239.13  375.4 
paused  63.30   336.4 
pauses  296.14   392.18 
pavement  199.9   199.25 
paving-stones  263.25 
paw  205.30   209.2 
Pawtucket  85.9 
Pawtucket  Canal  263.9 
Pawtucket  Dam  88.27 
Pawtucket  Falls  80.22 
Pawtuckets  345.25 
pay  123.11   209.28   218.17 

225.14  284.7   335.18   374.1 
paying  289.18 
payment  114.3 

pays  253.28   283.28   371.25 
pea  210.23 

peace  3.8   64.7   75.20 
peaceable  3.10 
peaceful  16.2   102.25   159.17 

208.25 
peach  381.26   382.4 
peaches  381.22 
pea-jacket  358.25 
peaks  86.9   105.10 
peal  78.18 
pearl  402.6 
peas  221.3 

peasant  67.29   333.13 
peasants  348.5 
peasant ' s  166.9 
peat-meadows  131.3 
pebble  262.14   263.23   383.30 
pebbles  11.22   26.13 
pebbly  31.8   61.30 
peculiar  29.31   55.15   63.13 


peculiar  (cont.) 
283.11   296.17 
362.24   378.30 
peddler  99.13   1 
peep  160.20   196 
peeping  206.2 
peers  363.24 
peevish  256.4 
Pelasgic  176.27 
Pelham  92.30 
Pelion  86.14 
pellucid  261.25 
Pembroke  124.1 
Pemigewasset  85. 

88.30   261.22 
pen  6.26   106.12 

110.9   129.27 
Penacook  268.15 
Penacook  Indian 
Penacooks  232.30 
penance  261.11 
pence  34 . 3 
pencil-maker  146 
pen-craft  99.18 
pendulous  44.4 
penetralia  330.1 
penetrate  91.26 

412.19   412.22 
penetrated  190.2 
penetrating  123 
Penichook  Brook 

374.23 
penknife  221.7 
pennyroyal  271.2 
Penobscot  28.16 
Penobscots  318.9 
pension  126.7   1 
pensioners  78.1 
pensive  403.13 
Pentland  54.23 
people  51 . 2   63 
82.10   148.8 
226.28   236.28 

285.19  360.3 
peopled  14.4   40 
pepper-and-salt 
Pequawket  123.28 
perceive  128.29 

363.20  389.15 
perceived  148.19 
perceiving  174.1 
perceptible  7.29 
perception  298.2 
perch  22.25   26. 

236.3 
perchance  21.13 
32.18   35.25 
53.13   60.22 
75.8   98.10   9 
124.14   127.28 
151.15 
183.9 
203.22 
246.6 
.3 


116.26   206.15 
338.9   360.7 
398.19 
92.13 
24   211.14 


23   86.13 
333.19   334.29 


109.2 
364.31 
322.22 
233.3 

345.25 


110.6 
401.24 


126.30   304.9 
412.24 
2   264.14 
17 
179.12   202.25 


272.1       272.7 


26.14 
196.30 


29   66.6   70.14 
193.1   226.24 
267.25   267.32 
360.15   402.5 


5.17 

358.25 

168.31 

i7e 

.10 

239.22 

298. 

6 

412.30 

215.6 

9 

133.8 

2   397.27 

19   27.2 

27. 

15 

259. 
266.27 
368.9 
414.5 


158.31 
185.20 

203.29 
250.7 
259.17 

314.11 
407.20 
416.28 


perched  33.2  19 
Pere  la  Chaise  1 
perennial  3.12 
perennials  231.2 
perfect  26.7  26 
71.15   98.12 


22.17   28.14 
36.1   52.26 
60.28   60.28 
9.30   110.12 
130.1   131.8 
167.16   179.2 
191.4   198.1 
237.24   238.8 
254.20   256.28 
264.1   264.19 

343.15   344.9 
411.12   413.26 

7.16 
78.27 
7.4 
7 

9   40.31 
152.30   153.3 


perfect  (cont. 


53 


plain 


perfect  (cont.)  237.31   238.1 
287.22   300.18   337.13   339.21 
339.26   350.8   398.5   401.20 

perfected  63.7   340.10 

perfection  11.15   45.9   351.12 
399.24 

perfectly  20.12   106.17   262.2 
285.25   309.22 

perform  136.15   139.6   210.3 
368.1   392.16 

performance  297.7   338.27 

performed  14.1   268.28   327.12 
343.14 

performing  388.14 

performs  94.15   101.11 

perfume  52.6 

perfumed  406.21 

perhaps  6.4   19.3   30.14   30.18 
32.1   34.5   58.12   65.26   78.11 
106.22   108.5   124.1   128.3 
149.10   150.7   153.31   158.2 

174.14  180.25   191.27   209.15 
210.8   212.21   225.24   231.6 

236.15  238.4   239.30   261.20 
263.17   287.20   294.27   296.15 

304.24  321.28   329.15   330.2 
333.5   333.30   365.3   372.21 
388.13   393.15   397.20   398.22 
400.5   401.8   415.19 

period  22.8   31.20   70.28   107.4 

195.17   262.10   263.8   361.16 

379.5   391.19 
periodicals  98.9 
periods  110.1   110.11   128.17 

132.4   165.8   165.16   263.18 

263.21 
perish  236. 31 
permanence  310.3 
permanent  114.20   115.14   278.2 

365.17 
permit  34.18   296.23 
permits  79.20   221.5   407.14 
permitted  72.16   102.8   210.3 

312.27 
perpendicular  193.10 
perpetual  80.28   118.15   282.31 

304.5 
perpetuate  177.28   237.8 
perquisite  363.11 
persevered  236.10 
persevering  53.5   100.15 
Persia  130.11   148.25 
Persian  44.8   149.9   265.2 
Persians  72.23   94.10   150.5 
persisted  322.14 
persistency  67.16 
Persius  327.26   328.12   329.6 

329.25  333.3   333.7 
person  193.16   296.7   296.21 

301.16  355.3   399.8 
personal  10.27   67.9   74.10 

220.8   401.10 
personality  71.22   79.6   238.23 

419.4 
personification  393.20 
personifies  366.24 
persons  45.27   275.24   280.22 

287.29   301.5   312.24   340.6 

364.3   397.20 
perspective  245.24 
perspectives  7.2 
perspiration  341.19   370.26 
perspired  155.28 
persuade  391.6 


persuaded  52.5 

pertinacity  311.14 

pertinent  265.21 

perturbations  412.27 

perusing  393.22 

pervaded  365.17 

pestilence  312.11 

pestles  84.30 

petals  155.30   238.1   379.4 

petition  51.1   114.30 

petitioners  304.29 

Petrarch  396.11 

pettiness  348.30 

petty  387.8   406.30 

Phaethon  58.29 

phantom  198.23 

Pharaohs  10.30 

Pharaoh's  78.21 

phases  23.7   412.5 

pheasant  156.12 

phenomena  23.6   94.12   222.23 

235.17   367.10   418.5 
phenomenon  81.21   161.29   217.28 

286.5 
Phidias  164.5 
phil-anthropy  36.13 
philanthropist  283.26 
Philip  346.6 
Philip's  268.14 
Philip's  War  114.8   114.22   175.31 

346.6 
philological  148.30 
philosopher  129.9   301.19   387.18 

389.19 
philosophers  106.3   137.13 

137.17   141.1   142.20   143.1 

148.25   149.21   156.14 
philosophical  398.2 
philosophies  159.3 
philosophy  48.15   61.23   91.24 

93.26   98.20   103.1   142.28 

148.31   149.2   149.18   149.23 

153.16   156.7   369.8   386.22 

386.25   386.28   387.28 
Philyra  166.12   166.14 
Phoebus'  103.11 
phrase  63.16   109.21   274.7 
physical  133.2 
physically  137.1 
physician  272.23   273.5   273.7 

273.11 
physicians  272.29 
physics  387.11 
piano-fortes  166.17 
pick  102.3   123.8   196.28 

320.1   382.28 
picked  110.29   174.27   207.25 
pickerel  17.21   24.7   27.27 

29.10      29.20      29.28      63.5 

75.6   245.22 
pickerel-weed  18.15 
picking  113.19   335.11 
pickled  34.7 
picks  221.3 
picture  26.25   27.24   31.5   45.8 

162.25   237.20   345.30   417.2 
pictures  87.22   94.26   349.8 

369.32 
picturesque  45.14   91.14   132.22 

397.19 
pie  384.7 

piece  66.12   157.19   304.13 
piecemeal  312.31 
pierce  164.8 


pierces  160.31   383.26 

piers  20.14   312.7 

piety  136.1 

pigeon  333.23 

pigeons  235.22 

pile  196.8   221.23 

piled  43.29   52.2 

pilgrim  68.2   190.7   403.6 

pilgrimage  173.20   417.5 

pilgrims  324.10 

pilgrim's  117.13   117.16 

Pilgrim's  Progress  72.9 

pillow  119.1   326.22 

pillowed  180.13 

pilot  253.15 

pinching   111.26 

Pindar  258.15   259.1   367.5 

Pindars  103.3 

pine  22.11   38.24   52.6   54.20 
63.4   109.17   123.28   134.6 
157.30   158.29   174.11   179.13 

179.14  179.29   203.16   206.17 

206.20  206.24   235.29   266.17 

301.27  307.24   336.29   339.29 
341.25   343.19   343.26 

pines  35.7   52.3   55.9   153.14 
167.5   170.4   179.17   179.27 
187.17   202.28   318.22   327.3 
333.25   366.15   374.30   375.30 

pink  377.15   377.17 

pinnacle  321.25 

pioneer  54.20   157.12   362.29 

pioneers  124.17 

pious  398.1 

piously  202.20 

pipe  65.24   216.3 

pipe-grass  6. 5 

Piscataqua  202.7 

Piscataquoag  87.8   259.21 
259.25   337.19 

piscatorial  167.23 

piscatory  33.8 

pitch  38.5   97.14   210.21 

pitched  39.3   118.29   173.28 

249.7  309.15   314.22   318.8 

353.25  416.11 
pith  197.22 
pius  136.2 
pivot  262.6 

place  3.3   16.26   17.25   20.17 
36.31   38.5   38.30   50.24 
67.31   68.31   69.14   87.13 
93.27   100.6   108.2   116.1 

122.23  129.11   132.14   153.3 

157.21  161.1   165.24   168.14 

179.8  194.13   216.29   248.18 

251.15  252.9   277.31   285.7 

285.24  288.9   290.21   292.2 

303.26  322.18   327.29   348.3 

368.28  379.26   387.27   396.7 
406.28   411.22 

placed  30.26   117.30   190.25 

191.27  194.20   203.14   256.6 
380.8 

places  4.10   10.7   13.4   23.14 
28.25   78.10   88.25   130.13 
165.30   166.11   190.26   193.20 
198.2   208.28   209.12   226.21 

263.16  334.14   339.19   374.11 
376.20   390.21   418.13 

placid  17.17   112.29   245.21 

placing  342.26 

plague  253.22 

plain  107.19   129.18   158.13 


plain  (cont. 


54 


positive 


plain  (cont.)  158.27   212.14 

214.16   248.5   341.8   353.19 

367.15   384.18 
plainly  33.25   53.29   101.7 

207.27   296.9   380.13 
plainness  109.12 
plains  10.4   23.12   158.22 

158.25   202.1   217.16   217.23 

304.8   370.2 
plaint  329.5 
plaintiff  329.11 
plaintive  51.4   329.16   393.28 
plaintively  348.16 
Plaistow  185.13 
plane  323.28   338.28 
planet  59.14   402.16 
plank  29.1   197.27   312.15 

312.15 
plant  63.3   129.24   129.30 

291.3   294.20   308.28 
plantain  163.6 
plantation  3.6 
plantations  49.30 
planted  11.21   52.4   52.19 

150.24  168.5 
planters  51.1 

plants  52.21   94.17   160.30 

210.25  341.4   379.13 
plateau  89.22 
platform  198.23   238.27 
Plato  105.28   159.4   279.9 
plausible  331.25 

play  341.1   384.26 

played  50.2   190.27   222.12 
385.3 

playfellows  20.5 

playful  153.19 

playhouse  68.31 

playing  199.4   206.5 

plead  397.1 

pleasant  4.20   55.24   63.8 
87.21   89.29   93.12   120.8 
131.19   168.2   180.30   192.9 
201.18   207.15   219.6   220.30 
226.7   228.16   230.6   252.7 
254.11   307.13   308.18   329.30 
374.6   374.15   381.19   392.21 
393.10 

pleasantest  256.7 

pleasantly  153.23   299.31 

please  244.29   287.1 

pleased  55.1   81.17   158.17 

213.15  217.27   257.17   302.13 
382.17 

pleases  258.2 

pleasing  78.14   195.23   195.27 
203.10   214.3   256.12   303.24 

351.16  400.5 

pleasure  92.28   130.25   159.17 

238.17  239.1   296.7   298.15 
318.21   323.15   364.12   372.18 
382.15 

pleasures  21.10   55.24   361.6 

400.2 
plectrum  280.25   419.22 
pledge  153.22 
pledged  281.21 
plenty  304.13 
pliant  364.19 
plied  89.6 
plot  52.10   407.23 
plots  339.22 
ploughed  160.19 
plow  110.6   176.27   181.21   208.1 


plow  (cont.)  208.11   313.1 

plow-boy's  358.13 

plowed  179.3   207.18   210.29 

238.8 
plowing  6.29   208.11   270.30 

373.18  385.8 

plows  53.10   54.15   270.31 
pluck  19.19   19.24   52.29 

219.21  236.8   400.12 
plucked  236.4   411.11 
plucking  189.15 

plum  86.1   210.17   381.20 

381.21 
plumage  56. 31 
plumb-line  388.8 
plumes  38.24 
Plum  Island  210.7 
plums  92.9   210.21 
Plutarch  183.31 
plying  274.20 
Plymouth  89.4 
Pneumatologists  159.4 
pocket  226.3   290.5   332.18 
pockets  90.24   123.11   361.1 
poem  67.25   93.23   94.7   97.25 

195.27   231.14   329.19   350.27 

365.22  365.23  400.13  403.3 
403.14 

poems  93.26   98.9   102.5   154.4 
164.24   164.25   365.10   366.19 

poet  14.19   45.31   60.17   61.22 
69.2   93.28   94.15   94.23 
97.30   101.15   101.21   101.28 
104.29   125.2   128.13   164.29 

176.15  183.14   239.14   283.22 

286.29  327.16   328.20   329.2 

348.26  350.16   362.13   362.23 

362.30  363.22   363.24   364.14 

364.16  364.17   364.20   364.23 
365.13   365.18   378.29   387.28 

392.23  394.23  398.26  399.6 
400.2   402.11 

poetic  59.18   94.9   149.28   153.31 

195.24  195.26   220.28   238.18 
257.20   364.30   386.19 

poetical  58.22   394.29 

poetry  56.15   61.10   92.28   93.9 
93.28   94.2   94.5   97.15   98.1 
142.7   148.28   148.31   179.1 
329.7   347.12   350.15   350.21 
350.24   363.19   363.30   364.4 

367.6  367.12   368.23   369.31 

386.17  391.25  391.27  392.8 
392.9   392.29   393.6   393..11 

393.24  395.17   395.20   395.21 

395.25  397.19   397.21   398.4 

400.19  403.5   412.11 

poets  44.21   56.14   56.25   57.13 
92.11   94.30   104.25   148.24 

148.27  166.11  170.16  199.2 
230.19  231.5  239.17  264.29 
266.27   281.15   327.26   357.30 

364.7  377.4   391.19   391.22 
393.9   393.15   393.19   394.5 
396.22   396.24   399.19   400.27 
405.19 

poet's  10.10   57.5   71.29   102.19 

265.31  365.5   365.25   402.2 
414.27 

Poictiers  394.22 

point  11.2   20.12   97.28   122.12 
127.2   127.10   150.17   151.20 
192.24   205.14   274.2   274.18 

307.18  321.28   340.24   356.14 


point  (cont.)  380.11   381.4 
pointed  167.25   208.20   221.14 

308.15 
pointing  360.17 
points  85.2   361.30   362.18 

362.21 
poised  24.22   25.22 
poison  246.24 
polar  103.12 
pole  20.17   20.25   21.16   62.23 

211.19  222.18 
poled  273.14 

poles  13.4   221.13   252.2 
309.12 

pole's  21.28 

policemen  75.12 

policy  75.11 

poling  307.19 

polish  402.21   402.30 

polished  365.10   402.24 

polishing  183.18   212.18   402.27 

politeness  212.17 

politic  21.21 

political  53.30   133.26   134.1 
136.7   308.27 

politician  110.1 

politician's  75.11 

politics  230.3 

polygonum  18.6 

Polynices  139.4 

pond  23.24   325.9 

ponder  328.19 

ponds  26.27   29.9   167.28 

Ponkawtasset  16.23 

pontederia  21.27 

Pontiac  231.25 

pontoons  312.28 

pool  404.26 

pools  250.17 

poor  35.4  35.22  72.12  72.13 
76.35  132.8  135.11  138.10 
168.26  208.6  209.12  224.23 
237.4  311.23  312.20  328.6 
334.6  348.16  373.23  407.8 
414.8 

poorer  382.28 

poorest  373.23 

Pope  391.27 

Popham  112.14 

poplar  190.27 

Poplar  Hill  16.14 

poppy  245.16 

popular  59.24   100.14   100.14 
362.30 

popularity  362.14   397.3 

populous  11.13 

porcelain  156.2   402.6 

pore  12.12 

pores  341.20 

porridge  409.24 

port  12.3   12.4   39.8   102.24 
257.12   322.21   420.18 

portages  230.22 

portals  403.25   409.14 

porter  381.22 

portico  103.1 

portion  62.1   87.20   153.24 

178.20  188.4   253.8   258.3 

262.21  353.13   397.31 
portions  11.13   136.28 
position  13.15   29.17   85.21 

148.12  190.15  363.26 
positions  347.21  372.13 
positive  224.14   295.8 


possess 


55 


process 


151.13 


59.12 

178.8 


281.10 
333.3 


59.27 
389.26 


230.2 

281.30   332.15 


262.23   263.10 


possess  69.4   107.4   239.20 

298.13 
possessed  85.4   150.29   348.19 

396.18 
possesses  296.4 
possibility  141.8   280.23 
possible  129.24   223.14 

284.17  293.10   296.6 
348.12 

possibly  90.11 
post  167.8 
postboy  348.21 
posterity  24.17 

60.19   176.22 

393.5   403.8 
postpone  145.28 
postponed  230.10 
posts  185.17 
potato  93.2 
potatoes  12.23   39.19   100.5 

100.28   150.26   204.25 
potherbs  407.24 
pot-holes  261.29 
Potomac  90.18 
pots  355.8 
pottery  280.5 
pounded  84.31 
pounds  34.3   345.7 
pour  360.16 
pout  29.30   118.20 
poverty  339.17 
powder-post  70.17 
power  65.15   134.4 

362.18  389.15 
powerful  282.9 
powers  119.31   326.17 
powwow  267.24   272.22 
practical  141.18   142.4 

149.3   149.25   154.6 

265.19  283.2   298.4 
390.24   399.2 

practically  273.7   284.12 
practicalness  145.26 
practice  81.19   129.7 

237.9   284.23   340.11 
practiced  91.16 
practices  272.18   299.32 
practicing  293.1 
prairie  23.5   198.14 
praise  66.4   69.11   104.24 

286.31   297.6   399.14 
praised  103.3   107.22   127.12 
praiseworthy  286.31 
prattle  142.30   205.3 
pray  69.17   71.20   77.25 

178.19   408.7 
prayed  151.24   220.2 
prayer  19.27   102.19 
prayers  366. 31 
praying  51.3   220.11 
prays  23.16   77.28 
preach  67.26   84.19 
preached  71.10   72.11 
preacher  77.19 
preacher's  78.11 
preaches  70.29   77.29 
precede  61.21 
preceded  97.23   363.5 
precedes  363.10 
preceding  126.29   200 
precepts  293.14 
precincts  255.6 
precious  17.25   18.11 
precipice  193.10   300 


141.2   143.5 


146.7 
157.16 
298.6 


146.9 
349.28 


122.25 


284.12 


393.6 


396.17 


precipices  86.28 

precipitous  321.31 

precisely  210.1   223.6 

precision  109.10   349.3   400.21 

predecessors  396.29 

predicted  412.2   412.10 

prediction  412.7 

preemption  409.18 

preface  93.8 

prefer  107.20   117.21   220.23 

386.10   386.12   387.1 
preference  132.10 
preferred  116.7   166.21 
preferring  394.30 
prefers  27.8 

pregnant  59.1   117.28   142.4 
prejudice  136.19   202.13 
prejudiced  72.4   72.13 
prejudices  294.26   296.17 
prelude  117.29 
premature  58.27 
prematurely  40.27 
premises  308.18 
preparation  181.5   355.6 
preparations  188.11 
prepare  138.17   288.28 
prepared  111.8   166.24   281.24 

282.21   337.9   360.9   392.27 

405.27   406.11 
preparing  117.1   251.29   358.15 
preponderance  34.8 
prescience  155.16 
prescriptions  272.16 
presence  163.12   219.28   282 

288.21   371.4   387.21   396 

406.13 
present  7.2   31.23 

88.21   132.17 
160.13 


3.14  8 
133.1   138. 

162.14  16 
225.16  262 
332.8   332. 

387.27   39 


413 


21 


156.15 

174.24  201.3 
310.12   320.4 
377.19   379.10 
408.8 

presented  81.15   162.13 
presenting  85.20   114.7 
presently  206.23   215.24 
presents  94.25   258.17 
preservation  130.2   288.9 
preserve  42.18   135.20   162. 

210.22   376.8 
preserved  42.9   97.13   152.3 

230.29   271.26   365.9   420 
preserves  55.13   338.14 
preserving  49.2   64.9   140 
preside  20.20 
presidency  104.26 
press  99.30   196.26 
pressed  133.24 
pressing  362.16   387.27 
pressure  223.25 
presume  64.28   71.20 
presumed  135.10   240 

417.13 
presumes  148.18 
presuming  295.16 
pretensions  155.10 
pretty  33.25   1 
prevail  120.11 
prevailed  83.1 

153.11   155.6 

229.25  290.9 
prevailing  157.8 
prevails  349.6 
prevalence  223.26 


14 
19 

5.14 

14 

5.18 

.18 

13 

5.29 

.3 

9.28 

10 

2 

.20 


2  9 


400.2 


2.9 

301 

.5 

362. 

30 

379. 

17 

123. 

29 

129. 

10 

164 

.16 

205 

.17 

.1   163. 
185.28 


195.5 


252.2 


prevent  268 . 7 

prevented  209.16   248.15 

previous  8.26   169.6   342 

prey  25.5   27 

price  185.27 

253.28  282.16 
priceless  185.29 
prices  194.25 
pride  222.27 

388.29  404.25 
prides  399.8 
priest  34.23 

273.6   366.23 
priestess  132.24 
priests  75.10   272.29 
prime  18.29   181.16 
primeval  56.13   59.21 


296.1   376.30 


272.22   273.5 


419.17 


156.16 


190.2   251.10 


296.26 


158.16   336.11   344.21   407.1 
priming  308.23 
primitive  57.3   62.16   86.3 

204.16  204.30   226.16   231.14 
264.7   291.8   336.15   360.5 
386.25 

primrose  111.30   112.1 
prince  142.1 
prince ' s  365 . 29 
principal  173.21 

326.17 
principally  225.16 
principle  23.12   293.17 

297.1   386.9   386.10 
principles  296.20 
print  150.3   185.26   224.4 
printed  93.4   99.9   365.23 
printing  60.16   60.29 
printing-press  150.12 
prints  98.18 
Prioress's  398.9 
priority  250.2 
prismatic  69.21 
prison  136.13   262.12 
prisoner  108.7   268.27 
prisoners  174.18 
pristine  65.22 
privacy  156.8   330.9 
private  63.21   118.22 

151.17  156.9   195.28 
226.11   276.4   294.7 
310.14   330.28   364.1 

privately  249.11 

privilege  296.13 

privileged  394.25 

privileges  37.17   89.17   232.4 

259.26 
privily  397.4 
prize  27.19   118.5   284.4 
prized  195.9   381.25 
prizes  291.11 


342.22 


134.12 
199.21 
294.16 


probably  3.2   8 . 

2   33.27 

66.21 

88.24   116.20 

168.31 

211.8 

215.21   227.28 

246.14 

260.3 

263.10   271.15 

300.3 

341.23 

375.22 

probation  107.26 

326.10 

probing  249.19 

250.24 

probity  218.11 

problem  81.13 

problems  74.27 

385.24 

proceed  109.19 

185.15 

proceeded  77.4 

165.28 

219.29 

292.10   343.7 

proceeding  128.12 

proceeds  156.27 

225.28 

390.24 

process  194.12 

237.27 

387.30 

procession 


56 


quarantine 


procession  254.4   349.11   359.16 

360.5 
processions  349.10   359.29 
proclaim  117.30 
proclaiming  418.16 
produce  8.2   225.9   300.15 

348.12   348.31 
produced  210.1   218.3   26 


3.25 
377.26 


176.8   273.3 
285.25   392.20 


325.22 
319.12 


7 
10 

165.4 
72.4 


338.30  351.10   351.16 
412.27 

produces  272.3   350.8   412.30 

producing  130.17 

product  28.8   196.2 

production  97.11   365.24 

productive  326.1   326.2 

products  167.13 

profane  288.26 

profaned  408.23 

profaning  77.20 

profanity  409.2 

professed  32.27 

professes  387.16 

profession  148.27 

325.31  369.1 
professions  220.24 
professors  100.16 
professorship  197.9 
proffering  246.22 
profiles  372.20 
profit  379.21 
profitable  79.11   251.14 
profitably  23.18   299.31 

319.31 
profits  90.23 
profound  203.8   282.9 
profounder  314.24 
profusion  18.30 
progress  11.17   29.24   46 

65.3   67.18   90.8   116 

116.21   126.27   132.4 

165.9   274.8   288.24   3 

389.23 
progressed  235.18 
progressive  165.15 
prolificness  418.21 
prologue  327.18   399.15 
prolong  147.16 
prolonged  58.28 
Prometheus  59.1   60.27   6 
prominent  388.12 
promise  141.11   301.3   40 
promising  58.26 
promontory  13.30 
prompt  332.17 
prompted  363.28 
promptly  33.11   34.4 
promulgated  184.9 
prone  105.13   147.4 
pronounce  71.27   290.17 
pronounced  290.15 
proof  59.29   290.26   296.3 
proofs  289.5   343.11 
propensities  28.27 
proper  33.19   59.4   136.1 

322.18   338.27   370.15 
properest  329.26 
properly  8.10   32.18 
property  100.12   308.28 

382.22 
prophecy  104.29   285.2 
prophetic  52.27   54.7 
prophets  71.17 
propitiate  38.15 
propitious  113.1   337.17   385.18 


7.14 
3.6 


4   290.15 
370.28 


309.18 


418.24 


402.19 


163.8   210.6 


.5   399.28 
365.15 


158.6 
328.16 


.18   361.29 
311.3 
334.24 


proportion  22.25   25.4   57.2 

108.11   133.14   154.5   203.27 

237.24   284.29   300.16 

419.13 
proportionably  261.24 
proportions  87.9   110.15 

403.10 
propose  2  39.28 
proposed  7.32   280.23 
proposes  146.9 
proposing  274.23 
proposition  71.16 
proprietors  37.17 
propriety  109.28 

349.3   399.7 
props  360.30 
prosaic  275.26   285. 
prose  94.9   364.18 

365.20  404.19 
Proserpine  18.22 
prospect  38.14   138.13 

190.5      194.3      269.4 

346.1 
prospects  4.23   138. 
prospectus  155.13 
prostrate  177.21 
protection  135.9 
Protestants  142.3 
prototype  63.17 
prototypes  156.13 
protruding  390.21 
prouder  45.16   158.7 
proudly  18.7   18.13 
prove  65.5   65.6 

205.23   265.8 
proved  13.26   91. 

215.20   226.25 

374.22   382.18 
Provence  304.9 
proverbial  7.30 
proves  5.31   282. 
provided  13.2   79.8   236.26 

252.14   384.23   412.22 
province  23.27   23.28   162.15 

329.7   369.3 
proving  93.11   263.15 
provision  210.6   343.4 
provisions  236.5   261.9   261.11 

263.28   382.31 
provokes  296.7 
prow  13.17   31.29 

153.11 
prowling  124.21 
prudence  132.10 
pry  63.11   374.18 
prying  319.12 
psalm  51.4 
psalms  98.13 
public  101.16 

226.1   226.10 

365.22 
publicness  228.29 
publish  93.30   194.27 
published  27.15 
pudding  325.16 
puff  355.5 

pull  24.4   30.6   37.23 
pulled  152.23   384.23 
pulling  257.15   385.9 
pulp  129.31 
pulpit  74.5   77.24 
pulpits  156.11 
pulsates  401.5 
pulsation  133.9 


79 

5 

93 

.29 

268 

4 

291.3 

5   118. 

5 

126 

.28 

293.26 

335. 

19 

397 

28 

28 

45.30   130.10 


155.14   156.10 
294.16   294.17 


pulse  183.27   183.28   275.5 

384.26 
pulse-beat  10.2   160.22 
puny  289.30   334.31 
pupil  100.16 
purchase  409.25 
purchased  33.28 
pure  18.11   35.5 
100.25   104.10 
194.16 
239.19 
347.8 
398.25 


384.7 
60.18 
142.11 

198.31 
275.16 

350.13 

407.1 
408.8 


99.26 

142.12 
218.24 

293.2 
388.14 
408.7 


142.14   203.15 
.6   399.27   407.21 

387.2   387.13 


183 


194.8 

218.31 

301.29 

393.8 
purely  260.6 
pureness  331 
purer  69.18 

204.3   267 

416.21 
purest  289.6 

393.17   418.26 
purified  282.14 
purifies  292.27 
purify  203.31 
Puritan  377.18 
purity  398.15 
purling  180.28 
purple  8.19   18.24 
purporting  99.25 
purports  33.26 
purpose  13.24   13.27   25.31 

111.7   133.22   138.22   194.20 

212.22   231.20   325.29   383.23 
purposes  49.15   89.9 
pursue  57.10   69.19   117.17 

187.21   188.12   221.6 
pursued  175.24   220.29   273.24 
pursuing  24.29   40.16   255.8 
pursuit  174.22   174.26   208.22 

255.14   274.21   309.18   343.23 
pursuits  21.8 
purveyors  418.16 
pushed  188.13   356.20 
pushes  225.24 


1 
38, 


32.7   58.6 
85.5   94.17 

130.9  136.19 

167.10  196.14 
196.25 
266.15 
343.11 

380.10 
409.26 
419 


208.14 
285.28 
360.18 
402.26 


put  6.26   27.10 

71.19   81.19 

117.13   119.8 

138.28   147.4 

196.17   196.23 

223.27   247.15 

304.30   331.18 

364.24   374.6 

408.17   408.19 
puts  293.10   405.19 
putting  189.25   236.8   354.9 

355.3 
Pylians  96.21 
pyramids  333.16   376.13 

402.22   402.27 
Pyramids  161.20   177.19 

383.22 
pyrus  91 . 7 
Pythagoras  71.31   105.28   137.13 

159.5  338.9 
quack  195.23 

quackery  77.31   272.26   273.9 

quadrupeds  362.8 

quaking  37.4   339.16 

qualified  389.1 

qualities  54.13   135.20   141.3 

141.9   291.10   293.7 
quality  163.29   178.4   212.20 

294.6  402.31 
quantities  31.25   259.23 
quarantine  253.19   253.23 


376.16 


346.17 


quarrel 


57 


reads 


quarrel  217.26   218.8   300.27 

300.31 
quarreled  127.13   268.2 
quarried  113.20 
quarry  266.27 
quart  153.5   325.15 
quarter  34.22   38.28   81.25 

122.2  177.1   208.19   226.18 
227.26   228.2   264.19   274.1 

quarters  101.29 

quarts  271.26 

quartz  153.5 

queen  19.2   360.14 

Queen  Semiramis  347.1 

quenches  204.2 

quenching  11.11 

quest  31.29   123.20 

question  51.28   217.7   217.30 

265.18   265.21   365.27 
questioned  208.8 

questions  156.19   248.2   332.12 
quickened  300.3 
quickens  364.11 
quickest  342.25 
quickly  118.1   290.11 
quiet  20.2   42.6   44.21   45.10 

53.28  77.20   169.30   213.12 
213.29   226.23   248.9   252.19 
256.31   257.19 

quietly  80.23   318.7   344.27 
357.18 

quill  351.13 

quirk  29.4 

quite  79.15   190.26   196.8 
214.5   218.4   254.6   256.31 
262.21   262.27   278.5   301.16 
307.20   308.20   314.25   332.8 
350.18   365.4   372.21   375.25 
388.14   396.5 

quotable  329.29 

quotation  107.6   330.7 

quote  3.16   231.4 

quoted  201.19 

Rabbit    Island    113.16 

rabbits  119.18 

race  3.11   23.25   30.9   32.25 

52.29  53.4   56.28   65.21 
67.17   75.5   84.29   89.18 
99.26   101.26   102.28   110.13 
127.25   128.24   151.18   157.17 
158.16   165.4   165.11   165.18 
176.25   204.4   218.13   250.6 
251.24   251.27   263.20   263.20 

302.3  307.23   360.29   361.12 
377.28   380.26 

races  21.9   59.22   263.30   283.10 

racked  49.23   343.16 

radiate  246.1 

radical  141.19 

radicals  142.2 

rafted  244.33 

rafter  70.30 

rafts  228.23 

rage  392.14 

rags  133.30 

rail  14.11 

railroad  89.6   90.1   119.25 

167.20   185.13   225.7   225.12 

324.23   380.3   380.19 
railroads  62.27   209.24 
rails  63.11   380.18 
raiment  22.22 
rain  6.20   7.5   12.7   54.19 

101.10   200.14   220.5   221.25 


rain  (cont.)  250.16   254.28 

266.26  317.3   318.15   319.10 

371.2  400.10 

rainbow  260.8   301.2   371.2 

rainbow's  407.28 

raindrops  317.2 

rainy  32.29   326.23 

raise  100.7   160.23   221.18 

333.22  386.3      405.9 

raised  18.7   31.16   43.18   142.13 

208.3  244.27   244.29   288.24 
381.25 

raising  25.23 
raked  5  3.1 

Raleigh  108.6   345.18   398.1 
rally  388.5 

ramble  27.21   111.8   375.2 
ramblers  329.28 
rams  317.10 

ran  62.22   90.14   93.20   116.23 
127.7   190.6   205.8   215.29 

223.16  249.21 

range  29.19   99.30   101.15   105.11 

148.17  158.20   190.2   323.19 
372.25   412.16 

ranged  188.1 

rangers  30.9   268.29   324.6 

ranges  86.7   390.14 

ranging  308.16 

rank  18.18   18.20   142.31   349.13 

ranked  99.11 

ranks  18.28 

rapid  28.21   31.8   40.7   85.4 

106.15  228.21   234.3   376.23 
rapidly  17.26   42.5   205.25 

274.20   336.7   337.19   361.30 
384.5   389.12 
rapids  88.17   137.8   213.1   245.6 

252.18  256.7   318.17 
rapier  63.25 

rare  6.20   18.11   19.18   55.15 
60.15   63.26   69.11   91.4 

104.7  106.18   111.14   155.31 

156.8  193.7   282.18   285.13 

287.20  289.4   298.15   322.10 
329.24   348.29   351.3   385.27 

386.5  389.16   394.10   394.14 

397.27  399.5   401.1   413.9 
414.18   417.29   418.17 

rarely  31.23   34.18   72.15   88.20 

108.18  113.4   163.10   195.19 

204.23  210.13   354.15   361.24 
399.3 

rarer  142.14   294.5 

rarest  148.20   178.4   223.20 

289.6  347.12   362.11   398.21 
rarity  27.20 

rash  312.27 

raspberries  189.15   219.18 

raspberry  86.11 

Rasselas  173.13 

rate  8.4   37.6   115.17   117.22 

132.16  178.29   264.6   271.4 
287.22   293.22   376.9 

rather  7.4   27.8   34.8   50.1 
51.27   58.22   62.19   63.14 
65.9   69.10   75.3   78.15   78.26 
79.25   91.14   94.22   100.14 
106.31   107.20   113.7   129.30 
136.3   138.24   143.1   151.4 

162.21  176.24   199.26   208.14 

214.9  217.30   222.12   276.3 
297.6   304.17   309.4   328.15 

341.19  393.24   398.6   402.20 


rather  (cont.)  411.26   414.3 

rattle  151.6 

rattling  81.26 

ravenous  29.11 

ravine  179.13   180.29   246.31 

317.10 
ravines  341.3   376.27 
ravished  393.31 
raw  4.16   5.18   60.24   210.22 

366.14 
rawness  391.12 
ray  164.21   303.12   406.26 
rays  19.12   26.11   61.22   97.15 

112.25   155.25   157.1   164.27 

170.9  183.1   185.21   202.27 
219.17   245.31   254.15   259.3 
288.11   407.4 

reach  10.9   87.1   133.17 

138.29   198.7   198.25   205.18 

254.7  263.19  278.12  328.18 
335.3  335.26  346.23  362.22 
364.29   384.12   414.6 

reached  116.19   118.28   126.5 
133.22   147.14   166.28   168.30 

178.3  185.12   191.21   192.23 

193.28  197.25   199.24   214.14 

228.17  245.6   247.2   247.27 
255.2   275.19   285.9   307.13 

337.18  342.15   345.5   374.23 

377.8  385.16   391.10 
reaches  43.12   61.28   88.15 

256.8   271.19   341.16 
reaching  19.24   63.29   88.20 

158.27   164.28   205.29   254.5 

273.17 
read  7.34   8.29   14.17   23.3 

43.18  57.29      58.18      72.6 

72.19  72.30       73.1       73.19 
74.2      74.4      74.5      93.23 
93.25      93.25      98.7      98.10 

98.19  98.21   98.22   99.6 
99.27   102.28   102.30   105.31 
107.6   107.12   108.12   110.5 

119.10  123.4   137.10   148.1 
148.6   155.17   155.29   156.21 
158.17   161.4   163.14   175.4 
177.6   180.8   194.29   194.29 

195.29  206.31   210.2   213.11 

224.4  228.16   230.6   238.7 

238.17  247.11   253.12   254.2 

256.21  259.24  260.27  265.5 
265.27   269.19   271.6   287.16 

310.18  326.31  326.31  327.7 
327.13   351.2   359.28   365.22 

383.8  389.29   394.14   396.31 

398.9  401.5   402.18   408.21 
reader  55.3   94.28   105.16 

106.15  109.4  111.18  142.13 
146.15   148.11   153.28   154.5 

159.22  231.16   231.21   393.21 

395.22  396.3   397.3   397.5 
403.4 

readers  73.15   147.30   162.27 

231.9   397.1 
readily  81.22   252.22   330.4 

331.18   384.22   386.24   398.9 
readiness  61.11   388.26 
reading  56.24   60.9   66.28 

72.20  79.8   98.6   99.28 

148.23  155.14   157.13   194.23 
197.17   218.5   230.9   233.30 

239.5  394.6 
reading-matter  195.8 
reads  231.14   397.6   407.15 


Read ' s  Ferry 


58 


remains 


Read's  Ferry  245.5 
ready  5.19   30.11   37.9   64.22 
106.12   119.4   122.4   151.18 

187.21  188.11   216.18   248.8 
264.1   272.3   274.25   289.30 
290.4   294.6   304.8   309.16 
392.15 

real  72.19   79.18   90.1   100.10 

133.22  183.8   195.19   282.29 
302.4   315.28   334.20   362.28 

368.23  370.19   374.5   388.27 

411.25  412.23 

reality  161.12   324.7   383.23 
realize  275.15   310.22   310.23 
realized  36.21   56.28   228.3 
realizing  30.30 

really  75.14   77.7   77.12   77.27 
100.20   107.18   195.24   285.20 

307.26  377.4   399.23 
realm  407.21 

realm's  407.26 

reaped  404.24 

reapers  404.29 

reaping  373.18 

rear  5.9   18.19   106.5   226.20 

307.18  317.11   318.3 
reared  150.24   165.14 

reason  91.8   124.1   124.1   146.14 

163.4   212.4   265.16   265.20 

311.29   412.14   416.16   418.4 
reasoned  35.19 
reasoning  412.1   412.15 
reasons  300.27   300.30 
reassured  120.9 
rebuffs  304.23 
rebuilding  162.29 
rebuilds  77.28 
rebuke  137.18   328.27 
recall  314.13   372.23 
receded  165.29 

receding  252.26   350.25   384.25 
receipt  225.31   226.2 
receive  150.2   203.14   284.28 

304.8   304.26 
received  3.5   73.12   87.29 

158.16   288.19   307.27   315.8 

350.29 
receives  86.4   329.13   371.10 
receiving  4.2   34.4   86.15   262.8 
recent  97.16   125.1   148.15 

176.15   367.3 
recently  72.17   168.24   258.1 
receptacle  29.25 
recess  17.23 
recesses  21.5   56.30   190.27 

336.27 
recipe  196.4 
recited  102.29 
reckoning  64.5 
reclaimed  8.27 
recline  153.12   238.10 
recognition  39.13   55.16   59.18 

93.18   290.15 
recognize  362.27   372.19 
recognized  149.15   213.10   224.18 

337.19  390.1   420.19 
recognizing  182.9   325.27 
recoil  222.5 
recommence  218.17 
recommenced  34  3.13 
recommend  2  37.28 
recommendation  93.21 
recommending  142.16 
recommends  399.9 


reconcile  300.20 

reconnoitre  5.23 

reconsider  383.29 

record  33.21   58.2   108.26   109.3 

110.3   195.10   334.19   348.16 

369.3   379.23   401.9 
recorded  134.7   169.3   347.29 

354.12   354.16   363.13   417.31 
recording  61.3   363.14 
records  51.31   53.11   83.28 
recourse  92.26   245.12 
recover  63.2   72.25   87.2   376.27 
recoverable  350.24 
recovered  161.24   233.2 
recovers  374.21 
recreation  23.21 

recruited  122.8   288.30   361.15 
rectitude  179.27   274.9 
recur  330.4 
recurring  301.1 
red  5.30   8.19   18.10   21.23 

26.9   26.17   26.21   27.18 

27.28   27.30   27.31   28.17 

30.24   52.24   52.28   53.19 

56.30   84.20   206.13   218.13 

237.10   237.11   266.15   336.29 

381.14 
redeem  247.6   395.26 
redeeming  54.13 
redemption  128.24 
redress  35.22 

reduced  20.15   261.28   333.25 
reed  43.17   48.27   334.7 
reed-birds  251.27 
reeds  5.17   23.28   250.17 
reef  385.31 
reefed  5.21 
reefs  278.9 
reembark  95.21 
refer  98.3   399.14   419.23 
reference  12.20   246.2 
referred  7.30   65.7   339.26 

350.6   376.3   376.13 
referring  61.3   82.16   175.31 
refined  52.9   156.2   159.15 

159.17   239.3   282.14   367.4 

399.25 
refinement  54.21   215.15   336.22 

337.2   368.23   398.14 
refinements  39.10 
reflect  24.5   48.2   119.22 

153.23   303.11 
reflected  18.14   18.28   19.1 

38.3   44.14   47.25   47.28 

47.32   86.10   92.15   138.6 

179.9  199.14   248.7   259.3 
309.27 

reflecting  158.11   164.26   178.24 

183.2   341.17 
reflection  26.5   65.2   255.5 

332.26 
reflections  14.28   17.28   26.10 

26.20   48.10   61.27   79.10 

126.26   150.15   165.26   204.2 

348.2   383.3 
reflects  104.11   118.11   142.7 

264.10  404.20 

reform  128.21   130.7   131.7 

131.14   283.25   394.24 
reformer  132.8 
reformers  130.26   131.21   131.29 

142.1 
reforming  64.9 
reforms  129.11   136.25 


refraction  376.6 

refrained  174.13   417.16 

refraining  27.7 

refresh  167.3   203.31   302.13 

refreshed  56.17   107.10 

refreshing  55.10   152.17 

refreshment  128.7   155.4 

refuge  418.27 

refuse  301.9 

regard  115.23   118.4   219.27 

236.11  289.16   327.8   393.20 
411.30 

regarded  33.19   129.12   142.8 

393.14   394.24   411.29 
regardless  122.20 
regards  291.27 
regiment  268.30 
regimentals  334.1 
region  142.14   198.26   200.13 

217.12  247.11   383.15   409.19 
regions  89.12   149.4   239.11 
regret  329.8 

regular  4.17   14.13   24.15 

262.2   320.8   327.12   351.15 
377.10 

regularity  45.11 

regularly  26.23   358.17 

regulate  345.15 

rehearsed' 315.24 

reign  19.2   404.23 

reigned    52.22 

reigns    65.22 

reinforced  121.5 

reiteration  59.26 

rejoice  48.23   148.9   354.6 

rejoiced  315.10 

related  13.10   175.22   176.11 
181.18   245.30   259.1   310.7 
393.23 

relates  112.2 

relation  94.11   101.31   156.22 
163.31   224.14   282.28   282.30 
284.17   284.27   287.4   287.22 
289.2   291.10   292.29   294.7 
294.11   295.30   298.5   396.30 

relations  70.22   81.9   281.20 
281.31   293.19   295.7   347.21 
383.21   388.5   401.10 

relax  34.18 

relaxed  55.3   64.27 

released  114.18   262.13 

relent  35.21 

relentless  131.6   343.22 

reliance  397.2 

relic  64.9   196.4   250.2 

relics  136.5 

relief  179.28 

relieve  21.1   40.18   221.29 
418.23 

relieved  357.8   416.24 

religion  64.29  79.12  79.15 
79.16  79.24  83.2  272.20 
280.1   330.9   385.26   387.16 

religious  74.11  78.3  78.18 
123.9   296.16   296.19 

religiously  59.28   286.26   288.27 

relinquished  361.25 

relish  384.10 

rely  332.13 

remain  52.7   104.17   264.16 
267.2 

remained  120.8   307.15 

remaining  133.12   191.27 

remains  33.21   91.21   160.16 


remains  (cont. 


59 


remains  (cont.)  164.15   177.4 

177.10  266.25   293.26   366.18 
405.4   419.3 

remark  420.8 

remarkable  7.28   61.10   73.10 
79.4   106.27   134.7   142.11 
149.6   163.8   177.12   177.26 
182.6   211.12   214.3   261.20 

298.11  397.26   401.27 
remarkably  382.12   398.27 
remarked  216.22   217.15 
remedied  209.5 

remember  4.27   22.3   34.10 

102.16   122.31   158.3   162.20 
197.11   208.10   246.15   275.12 
276.4   281.12   300.1   315.19 
338.9   354.15   363.24   374.13 
383.31   411.27 

remembered  28.5   31.22   50.31 
97.6   108.19   117.18   152.21 
162.2   168.23   195.8   208.15 
230.16   237.20   275.21   277.26 
291.22   310.4   310.4   354.24 
380.9   380.14 

remembering  32.13   194.12   293.4 
353.21 

remembers  22.30   78.7 

remind  191.8   303.6   327.25 
395.21 

reminded  34.20   48.18   91.25 
139.2   166.27   190.19   196.15 

272.2  310.2   336.26   363.19 
366.15   382.6   395.31   409.29 
417.29 

reminding  43.17   44.8   192.6 

226.21 
reminds  26.24   27.20   176.12 

183.3  272.10   367.4   368.24 
reminiscences  230.23 

remnant  123.30   232.11   368.5 
remote  70.28   94.18   164.8 

224.15   226.26   246.13   264.15 

345.29   373.8 
remoteness  14.29   45.8   183.4 
remoter  55.27   161.1 
remotest  102.1   183.7   224.10 

293.8 
remould  328.2 

removed  24.25   260.9   412.16 
removes  401.10 

removing  11.10   108.21   224.6 
rend  147.8 

render  115.2   197.29   330.8 
rendered  379.15   395.2   395.3 
renders  155.26 
rendezvous  226.21 
renounced  373.20 
repair  96.18   324.19 
repaired  271.1 
repairing  225.14   247.29 
repast  38.13   238.5 
repeat  285.17   343.25 
repeated  285.11   285.14   307.25 

339.2 
repeatedly  252.17 
repeating  73.30   82.4 
repeats  264.20 
repel  218.3 
repents  142.7 
replenish  203.21   307.15 
replies  147.15 
reply  265.22 
report  79.17   127.11   231.11 

347.22 


reporters  46.7 

reports  98.9 

repose  92.14   130.4   138.24 

256.26   401.21 
reposes  167.2   338.14 
represent  218.12   339.2 
representative  58.26   257.11 
represented  32.12   127.26   232.10 

287.29 
represents  24.17   393.13   394.13 
reprint  157.14 
reproach  108.16   129.23 
reproof  329.22   331.22 
reproved  54.14   76.34 
republic  100.6 
repulsive  220.14 
reputation  81.2   287.3   396.20 
reputed  35.12   267.24 
request  68.19 
requests  115.5 
require  80.25   132.20   217.14 

297.2  298.2   382.30 
required  47.23   47.30   109.12 

116.9   119.3   166.19   197.28 

200.29   296.3 
requires  110.7   289.5   293.6 

326.9   362.5   362.23 
requiring  221.10 
requisite  301.8 
requisitions  13.22   93.29 
rescued  292.3 
researched  161.26 
researcher  161.25 
reseeking  123.3 
resemblance  131.7 
reserve  14.2   238.23   290.18 

290.19   361.3   409.18 
reserved  36.10   150.11 
reserving  151.19 
reservoir  10.7 
resided  261.7 

residence  113.24   268.22   269.15 
resigned  229.9 
resisted  25.28 
resolute  34.24   139.8 
resolutely  174.12 

resolution  111.9   343.17   354.14 
resolved  11.26   116.30   139.3 

173.14 
resolves  111.6 
resort  391.9 
resorted  4.13   85.9 
resorts  98.30 
resound  188.3 

resounded  40.19   51.4   239.17 
resounding  96.17   96.20   419.20 
resounds  169.10   185.20 
resource  5.6   237.8   383.5 
resources  312.25 
respect  35.11   94.29   108.10 

135.19   272.20  .281.10   285.31 

288.5   298.12   316.1   365.15 

366.28   369.1   387.23 
respectability  66.1   349.14 
respectable  195.1   195.7   196.1 

221.3  303.29   346.25 
respecter  287.20 
respecters  348.15 

respecting  207.30   382.20   398.15 

412.15 
respective  258.8 
respectively  142.31 
respects  65.21   135.16   287.26 

287.27   325.21   351.16   366.20 


respects  (cont.)  393.14 

respire  12.13 

respite  262.19 

responds  289.10 

responses  104.18 

rest  11.1   30.10   37.3   66.30 
92.9   122.9   129.4   138.15 
159.22   173.27   180.15   257.13 

319.27  326.21   344.27   363.11 
377.17   381.12   387.6 

rested  92.25   128.6   170.13 

235.10   262.15   337.21 
resting  14.14   341.19 
resting-place  155.2 
restless  87.10   130.26   157.12 

226.22   296.4 
restlessly  358.4 
restore  110.4   179.4   386.25 
restored  26.25   114.1   395.27 
restrained  267.24 
rests  78.16 
result  94.5   94.20   99.20 

105.13   107.27   107.28   212.18 

285.25   337.2 
results  23.13   387.28   389.24 
resumed  116.28 
retain  168.2 

retainers  205.16   287.25 
retard  179.4 
retards  364.11 
retire  221.24   370.11 
retired  40.10   63.8   86.3 

118.28  153.13   213.25   248.18 
252.9   256.6   319.17   340.17 
344.27 

retirements  55.27 
retouches  41.2   178.18 
retouching  59.28 
retracing  343.12 
retreat  78.2   78.24   162.29 

175.24  214.17   228.22   249.26 
retreated  173.25 

retreating  122.20   161.30 

247.16   278.12   336.5   357.19 
retreats  341.5   365.20 
return  20.19   31.19   122.21 

128.29  151.16   175.23   191.15 

223.15  236.23   258.19   268.16 

286.25  292.6   335.24   384.8 

393.16  397.4   399.22 
returned  123.30   174.14   194.13 

219.30  264.6   271.30   274.23 
307.29   335.8   343.9 

returning  191.26   353.21 

returns  8.26   206.24 

Reve  134.28 

reveal  388.1   388.6 

revealed  37.15   38.21   89.29 

158.7   158.11   170.12   197.30 

199.12   254.20   295.9   381.2 

396.4 
reveals  383.11 

revelation  332.9   390.2   390.3 
revelations  71.15   380.21 

411.25   419.12 
revenge  307.22 
revenue  11.1 
Revenue  Cutter  336.6 
reverberated  245.2 
reverence  66.2   148.7   393.8 

396.28   398.30   401.6   408.24 
reverent  398.28   401.18 
reverted  130.11 
review  88.6   128.10   390.7 


reviewer 


60 


romantic 


reviewer  130.19   390.24 

revisit  374.14 

revisiting  35.20 

revive  56.15 

reviving  119.29 

revolution  7.31   14.14   262.13 

268.24   415.18 
revolutions  133.3   134.4   149.27 

263.17  380.20 
revolve  262.9   263.18 
revolves  262.6 
revolving  262.19   411.31 
reward  141.10 
rewarded  22.24 

rhexia  18.25 

Rhodes  81.29   259.5 

rhyme  59.24 

rhymed  94 . 1 

rhymer  404.18 

rhymes  402.15 

rhythm  155.19   328.3 

rhythmless  94.4 

ribbon  377.17   379.4 

rice  189.25   194.21   235.14 

237.13 
Rice  214.8   215.6   216.12   218.29 
rich  199.11   246.3   250.14 

283.7  303.22   311.23   320.2 
357.27   373.23   373.30   406.21 

407.8  416.15 
Richard  Arkwright  57.12 
richer  409.26   409.28 
riches  289.19   373.30 
richest  359.22 

richly  108.6 

Richmond  54.24 

richness  322.22 

ride  56.2   107.2 

rider  205.29 

ridge  192.14   312.23 

ridiculous  155.11   390.11 

ridiculously  202.18 

riding  192.8 

rig  13.16 

riggers  5.20 

rigging  64.20   358.26 

right  14.18   38.23   50.25   71.4 
78.20   106.24   113.23   125.26 
134.19   138.31   146.21   191.22 
206.29   212.19   231.5   236.8 
285.5   289.3   299.11   299.20 

338.9  350.22   394.12   406.29 
409.18 

rightfully  39.28 

rightly  13.8   74.5   297.4   408.20 

rights  115.21   293.5   355.4 

rigid  34.18 

rill  62.17   200.27   204.3   314.25 

rills  261.27   315.3 

rim  373.9 

rime  392.4 

rind  212.5   361.9 

rinds  150.21 

ring   14.8      109.1      109.3      304.16 

ringing   68.1 

ringlets   338.19 

rings  160.14   411.7 

rinsed  188.9 

rip  236.25 

ripe  118.31   166.6   246.24 

335.18  335.19   350.28   357.29 
404.29 

ripened  38.12 
ripeness  377.20 


ripening  357.28 

ripple  39.21   205.21   339.4 

353.10   383.27 
rippled  187.18 
ripple-marks  209.31 
ripples  105.25   183.1   204.2 

338.18   341.16 
rippling  27.3   119.12   121.2 

127.2  205.11   212.28   247.7 
338.31   354.28   356.2   356.10 
374.26   383.31 

rise  5.19   88.31   105.22   149.8 

165.4  165.9   198.31   281.23 

319.25  342.7   373.13   380.5 

385.14  394.10 
risen  197.31   380.15 

rises  4.22   21.19   85.23   159.12 
177.30   288.1   321.25   404.20 

rising  5.26   31.12   37.25   38.9 
88.14   97.18   117.19   121.3 

169.15  190.24   205.19   218.16 
318.10   323.28   341.20   373.9 
408.31 

risk  335.18 

risks  312.10 

rites  14.1   366.31 

river    5.14      8.2      8.9      10.8      12.3 
12.23      19.2      19.6      20.10      20.12 
21.30      22.19      25.7      26.9      26.17 
28.28      29.2      30.10      31.7      31.21 
31.25      31.27      32.10      34.11 
38.10      38.13      38.16      38.25 

40.14  42.1      43.8      44.14      47.33 
49.10      52.11      53.17      53.25 
62.17      62.29      85.2      85.19 

87.15  87.20      88.6      88.29 
89.10       90.9      90.22      91.1       91.23 

105.13  105.15      112.27      113.2 

113.5  113.19      116.18      116.24 
118.28      119.13      119.20      121.2 

122.6  126.25      127.2      127.6 
128.9      137.4      150.18      150.29 

151.8  152.28   169.17   175.3 

180.14  200.29   200.31   202.22 

203.9  203.12   203.18   203.23 
203.28   204.1   204.13   204.17 

205.6  205.10   205.15   206.27 

207.12  207.16   208.19   208.27 
209.22   210.7   212.27   213.4 

213.8  213.18   219.8   222.22 

224.3  225.16   226.13   226.16 

226.18  228.2   228.26   232.7 

234.3  235.11   236.7   245.20 

246.7  246.19   247.30   248.6 

249.4  249.13   251.17   252.4 
252.6   252.20   252.26   255.10 
256.1   256.8   257.25   259.27 
260.17   261.5   261.17   261.23 

261.26  262.22   263.11   264.6 

264.15  269.3   269.13   269.27 

271.19  273.16   273.17   274.27 

307.13  308.24   309.20   314.22 

314.25  317.4   318.13   321.30 
322.1   322.4   324.9   334.27 

335.26  336.8   341.15   341.16 
341.25   342.4   343.7   344.5 

344.9  346.2   353.27   353.31 

354.27  356.2   357.3   357.10 

361.24  361.28   371.30   376.21 

379.25  379.30   380.1   380.5 
380.15   380.23   384.11   385.17 
416.20 

river-gods  203.25 
rivermen  223.10 


River  Partridge  27.16 

river-reach  374.10 

rivers  11.2   23.5   35.25   36.19 
36.20   81.21   87.7   88.30 
91.27   134.5   223.9   228.23 
230.26   250.4   258.7   263.15 

263.15  266.5   303.15   322.20 

353.5  353.9   353.10   353.11 
356.10   361.30   406.28 

river's  111.30   223.8   261.2 

380.21   417.4 
riverside  32.31   52.9   317.14 

337.4 
River  Wolf  29.12 
rivus  113.5   113.6 
roach  27.17 
road  50.20   52.20   170.1   189.20 

190.7   208.27   212.30   213.30 

215.10   226.18   260.20   318.27 

319.6  324.17   325.13   326.16 

326.29  334.2   363.30 
roads  204.16   204.22   249.12 
roadside  377.13 
roadstead  167.30 

roar  245.3 

roaring  356.8 

rob  299.12 

robbed  13  5.9 

robber  259.20 

robbers  135.1 

Robert  Boyle  114.6 

robin  44.14 

Robin  Hood  174.29   178.23 

robin's  3  3  3.25 

Robinson  Crusoe  60.4   307.32 

rock  5.13   5.14   38.27   91.17 

203.16  245.13   245.13   246.30 

246.30  248.13   249.5   261.18 

262.7  262.21  262.27  262.30 
263.23  301.13  312.7  321.31 
343.26   353.11   372.11 

rocked  187.18 
Rockingham  County  250.30 
rocks  31.20   38.31   49.24 

85.29   116.15   117.31   127.3 
153.13   158.31   173.28   179.16 

193.30  213.29   223.7   224.6 

244.31  245.21   250.12   252.22 
261.10   261.27   263.1   265.24 
265.29   291.7   304.7   315.1 

356.8  357.3   357.9   363.12 

374.17  374.19   390.21 
rocky  180.29   212.30   246.28 

249.17   252.6   261.29   262.30 

334.23 
Rocky  Mountains  10.25 
rod  20.19   206.5   249.24 
rods  21.28   24.24   39.3   42.4 

88.23   118.29   127.6   192.29 

206.21   321.31   353.29   380.23 
Roger  Bacon  396.17 
rogue  81.1   181.26 
rogues  284.23   284.25 
roll  37.4   66.23 
rolled  13.3   14.16   66.22 

185.31  336.9   357.8   384.17 
rolling  10.4   113.8   193.23 

244.32  249.1   254.24 
rolls  106.13   340.7 
Roman  40.25   106.4   264.12 

264.17   270.30   345.17   345.17 

365.21   382.6 
Romans  264.10 
romantic  213.24 


Rome 


61 


same 


Rome  265.27   266.4   346.19   358.29 
roof  13.7   20.8   179.17   180.25 

192.19   230.4   247.10   317.3 

405.7 
roofs  85.8   166.13   245.27   246.3 

383.1 
room  112.23   112.24   215.13 

215.13  216.1   217.4   310.16 
381.10 

roosts  235.25 

root  52.30   78.11   111.10   151.22 

191.1   206.12   288.31 
rooted  107.16   208.31 
rooting  379.16 
roots  45.2   102.17   107.18 

109.17  188.8   320.12   339.15 

343.19  353.7   409.27 
rope  274.24   308.14 
ropes  166.9 

rose  27.22   48.30   166.1   191.23 
199.25   218.18   255.10   333.18 

380.1  380.17 
rose-colored  18.6 
roses  299.31 

rosy  42.7   138.19   199.4 

rot  137.2 

rotting  32.26 

rough  45.12   116.1   212.5   219.27 

230.18  304.12   402.23 
rough-hewn  402.28 
roughly  402.22 

round  4.31   5.3   5.5   5.22   7.34 
16.22   24.30   37.8   52.26   78.19 
85.12   117.7   127.2   131.9 
150.17   158.28   208.13   215.27 
226.5   246.23   252.17   256.31 

262.2  274.2   274.18   307.18 
325.31   336.12   338.18   353.14 
373.2   405.2 

rounded  43.23   166.5   261.24 

roundest  106.23 

roundness  59.9 

rounds  328.7 

route  63.8   189.29   191.24 

192.14  200.12 
routes  123.6   206.22 
routine  128.12   132.13   229.24 
roving  81.30   161.12   345.5 

384.21   413.14 
row  4.21   8.15   78.3   391.10 
rowed  20.28   42.4   92.25 

115.25   123.14   167.22   179.7 

203.5   252.23   256.3   307.12 

416.9   417.19 
rowing  20.26   43.2   81.20   122.5 

123.12   150.30   245.14   250.31 

252.8  415.17 
rows  213.13   374.29 
royal  108.13 

Royal  Society  261.13 

rub  229.31 

rubbing  212.21   339.30 

rubbish  340.12   409.14 

rudder  13.16   151.5 

ruddy  61.20   65.23   303.7 

rude  6.17   54.20   109.15   193.31 

211.20  212.9  214.10  214.27 
217.24  256.27  265.29  360.4 
399.23   402.19 

rudely  13.23   52.10   151.25 

177.9  337.7 

rudeness  47.23   211.29   218.3 

395.22 
ruder  402.11 


rudest  367.4   368.23 

rudimental  417.23 

rudiments  262.29   408.9 

ruff  24.16 

ruffled  17.27 

ruffling  39.21 

rugged  38.25   55.27   216.22 

ruined  253.11 

ruins  71.15   97.12   136.3 

247.2  258.14      266.5      266.24 
266.29      303.13      315.1       347.27 
403.9 

rule  74.15   74.17   135.29 

196.12  219.1   294.23   331.18 

354.13  404.21 
ruled  75.12 

rules  350.12   386.22 
rum  33.28   33.29   33.31   33.31 
rumbled  191.18 
rumbling  245.1 
ruminant  29.14   130.13 
ruminations  246.20 
rumor  280.3   360.22 
rumored  65.26 
rumors  239.13   308.22 
run  6.4   32.22   49.22   99.19 
105.31   115.27   131.5   181.22 

193.11  204.22   208.24   213.28 
301.18   309.23   311.31   312.10 

323.17  340.3   342.19   353.5 
361.9   364.30   383.14   420.5 

runes  266.16 

rung  118.17 

runic  392.10 

runnel  62.5 

running  28.8   47.30   61.9   116.14 

206.20  256.19   358.5   358.21 

359.12  384.21   401.15 
runs  3.9   20.12   37.25   50.20 

62.19   64.10   85.26   89.7 

101.18  105.15   114.30   275.28 
385.17 

rural  50.2   190.26   191.7 

rush  190.1   320.7 

rushed  216.5 

rushes  5.17   153.30   337.4 

385.12 
rushing  62.17   317.10   318.3 

357.3  357.10   359.6 
russet  206.1   357.10   377.6 
russet-clad  14.9 
Russians  98.19   166.9 

rust  284.7   396.3 

rustle  38.29   205.22   251.28 
327.1   358.7   358.18   359.25 

rustled  121.4 

rustles  251.27 

rustling  22.19   39.25   167.17 
205.11   206.1   328.9   343.24 
344.16   355.1   356.2   358.14 

358.21  359.27   403.20   406.22 
ruthless  305.10 

rye  204.25 

Sabbath  45.5   48.26   76.37   77.6 

77.18       77.28       78.13       92.15 

115.28   394.6 
Sabbath-School  72.5 
Sachem  Pasaconaway  267.21 
sachem ' s  53.13 

Sachem  Wannalanset  82.9   261.7 
Saco  125.30   126.13 
Sacontala  183.15 
sacrament  23.2 
sacred  142.24   148.7   150.4 


sacred  (cont.)  155.1   157.11 

401.5 
sacredness  392.12 
sacrifice  98.11   110.14   266.30 

370.25 
sad  78.29   79.8   183.9   327.26 
saddened  20.4 

Saddle-back  Mountain  189.10 
saddle-bags  33.2 
Sadi  324.10   415.14 
sadly  5.5 
sadness  183.14 
safe  103.10   126.5   179.31 

206.8  335.22   385.23 
safely  117.6   228.23   347.7 
safer  118.2 

safety  17.26   292.2   345.6 

saffron-colored  199.3 

sage  397.9   409.4 

sages  141.20   149.6   149.12 
319.20 

Sahara  209.10   210.28 

said   #66 

sail  4.21   88.7   150.17   191.5 
191.11   211.10   221.18   222.15 
223.29   224.1   244.27   244.29 
274.19   278.10   278.10   335.29 
336.5   384.5   384.21   384.26 
420.16 

sailed  17.22   44.21   45.28 
48.18   166.28   205.26   279.7 

324.9  336.7   338.8   371.29 
384.11   384.24   385.4 

sailing  245.19 

sailor  119.30   238.8   254.21 

362.17 
sailors  13.20   68.18   117.31 

119.2  166.7   220.22   226.7 

255.10  274.25   391.3 
Sailor's  Snug  Harbor  78.2 
sails  13.17   89.30   223.30 

254.8   254.12   254.29   255.1 

274.3  274.10   274.20   338.16 

344.10  361.20 
saint  283.19 
saint's  329.16 
Salamis  265.9   265.11 

salmon  32.3   34.6   91.2   91.25 
202.26 

Salmon  Brook  167.20   168.3 
169.8   169.13   345.3   375.3 

saloons  55.16 

salt  86.1   190.30   319.23 
325.8   409.23 

salted  237.24 

salubrious  379.15 

salutation  212.9   281.25 

salute  14.12 

salve  209.13   290.4 

same  9.19   11.18   21.25   27.28 
29.25   34.10   45.7   45.28 
59.30   59.31   60.2   85.25 
91.7   91.10   131.30   137.4 
138.18   141.25   156.10   161.9 
163.23   164.11   164.15   164.17 
167.2   169.17   182.27   197.20 
201.18   204.21   214.2   220.13 
224.21   227.7   227.12   236.11 
237.5   252.16   254.23   262.24 
262.27   265.12   265.20   271.12 
287.21   289.11   298.14   302.10 

302.11  302.11   302.12   302.13 
311.25   325.29   336.28   350.4 

353.4  360.12   363.27   366.20 


same  (cont . ) 


62 


same  (cont.)  390.1   396.30 

401.17  403.1   408.25   411.9 
411.25 

Sam  Linis  233.24 

Samuel  Lennardson  342.5 

sanctions  333.8 

sand  24.21   24.26   92.13   127.19 
139.3   152.18   152.26   152.28 
152.33   152.33   153.5   208.28 
209.3   209.6   209.16   209.26 
209.29   210.4   210.9   210.16 

210.24  210.28   210.31   249.25 
267.2   320.2   353.30   356.19 
401.23 

sand-banks  209.22 

sand-bar  89.10   210.11   213.16 

259.4 
sand-bars  213.9 
sand-heaps  179.25 
sand-hill  211.12 
sandpiper  245.13   252.21 
sands  28.4   35.29   258.9   258.14 
sandwich  86.8 
sandy  26.12   27.8   27.25   92.7 

102.18  118.19  150.25  153.9 
203.20  204.29  205.7  209.20 
250.12   271.20 

Sandy  Hook  191.2 

sang  104.24   188.5   378.29 

sanity  153.22   154.2   409.15 

Sanjay  147.21 

sank  199.26 

Sanskrit  155.23   160.7 

sap  6.2   101.11   101.17   107.17 
166.20   310.11   353.5   358.12 

sapling  101.13 

sap-wood  212.6 

sat  39.4  39.15  45.29  48.25 
63.4  119.10  141.20  153.4 
194.23   205.28   216.8   219.6 

238.25  252.28  307.27  308.18 
309.25  321.30  333.24  381.12 
417.21 

satiety  418.29 

satire  195.20   273.3   32,8.12 

328.20   328.29   329.1   329.20 

329.23   331.6   332.19 
satires  330.2   333.3 
satisfaction  224.5   291.22   381.26 

388.29   399.29 
satisfactory  55.18   208.9   265.22 
satisfied  13.20   106.19   159.16 

329.2   347.16 
satisfies  339.14   400.29 
satisfy  58.15   349.14-  407.17 
Saturday  12.1   375.2 
Saturn  160.12   411.7 
satyr  217.25 
satyrs  38.31 
sauce  414.12 
sauce-pan  325.4 
Sault  de  Sainte  Marie  292.10 
saunter  110.24 
savage  54.1   224.11   224.14 

301.12   336.16   349.15   368.28 

389.17 
savagely  260.6 
savageness  56.21 
savager  56.13 
savages  124.20 
savage's  224.23 
save  261.4   324.8 
saved  237.23 
saw  5.11   21.6   22.29   39.29 


saw  (cont.)  117.29   118.3   151.15 

152.28  166.29   189.10   197.2 

199.15  204.12   204.12   214.29 

215.10  216.9   226.5   226.17 

227.13  259.4   259.21   260.8 
269.22   269.27   291.25   357.9 

363.25  373.19   383.1 
Saxon  53.15   54.20   218.11 

394.31   395.17   395.19 
Saxons  163.14   368.29 
say   #58 

saying  138.2   208.13   338.8 
says  8.29   9.1   9.13   57.21 

60.6   68.24   71.31   82.16 

83.3  84.9   91.18   106.24 
112.9   114.8   114.23   126.1 

128.14  128.28   130.19   131.23 

135.22  139.9   140.12   140.17 
141.14   143.7   144.8   146.5 

147.7  147.13   175.31   183.14 
183.31   189.1   201.19   207.21 

261.8  272.4   272.9   275.31 

280.16  284.12   286.29   289.7 
290.31   292.12   302.7   327.27 

330.11  332.16   345.18   349.25 

349.29  353.1   370.4   389.5 
402.2   414.20   415.11 

scald  402.12 

scale  173.14   190.23   194.11 

222.13   224.17   304.6   385.1 
scales  26.20   36.5   91.28 
scalloped  210.25 
scallop-shell  117.14 
scalp  168.17   176.13   324.8 

342.26  342.28   351.20 
scalped  232.31 

scalps  342.2   343.10 

scaly  35.24   135.5 

Scamander  10.12 

scan  312.29 

scant  339.13 

scar  30.13   251.23   372.29 

scarce  252.3   420.21 

scarcely  7.29   315.19   327.26 

scared  52.13   151.3   188.7 

307.23 
scaring  90.7 
scars  304.21 
scatter  392.2   415.21 
scattered  8.13   52.15   79.11 

116.12  173.31   190.3   235.12 
256.1 

scatters  383.26   404.26 
scene  150.18   179.16   231.23 
268.16   271.1   322.10   347.27 

353.23  372.13   374.13 
scenery  11.13   31.21   45.20 

61.26   62.30   93.24   96.11 
127.1   191.7   202.14   202.21 

203.9  214.3   215.8   222.20 
230.18   239.2   249.14   252.21 

259.30  300.1   337.9   372.16 
400.4   405.14 

scenes  14.29   20.7   336.23 
Scene-shifter  118.3 
scenting  318.22   319.18 
schedules  100.11 
scheme  12.11   70.15   70.29 

71.4  71.8   71.13   339.9 
schemers  128.29 

schemes  71.14 

scholar  99.26   108.18   109.5 
109.28   110.7   111.20   231.5 
238.25   239.9   330.4   360.9 


scholar  (cont.)  394.18 

scholarlike  27.23 

scholars  98.16   139.2   148.21 

148.26   149.31   360.10 
scholar's  109.2 
scholarship  108.10 
school  66.15   66.17   231.19 

250.1  272.19 
school-boys  384.19 
school-boy's  195.12 
schoolhouse  53.31 
schools  109.15   409.3 
schooner  87.24 
schooners  210.30   254.18 
science  23.21   56.27   65.3 

79.16   79.16   94.13   100.24 
105.11   195.10   231.10   336.27 
386.7   386.14   386.30   387.4 
387.13   387.14   387.28   388.14 
388.25   389.23   389.24   412.11 
413.17 

sciences  57.6 

scientific  59.12   386.5   388.12 

scientifically  156.6 

scores  275.23 

Scotch  Irish  92.30 

Scotland  396.13 

Scottish  395.21 

Scott's  281.15 

scout  206.20 

scouting  271.29 

scouts  174.16   176.13 

scow  151.7   204.1   223.18 

227.30  228.7   336.12   384.16 
scows  381.16 

scraggy  193.27 

scrambled  246.28 

scrap  196.3 

scraping  123.12 

scraps  194.24   196.29 

scratch  209.9   364.30 

scratching  6.28   212.2 

scream  90.6   266.9 

screamed  205.26 

screams  179.30   344.10 

scrip  117.14 

scripture  280.1 

Scripture  142.12   150.6   150.8 
159.26 

scriptures  72.21   127.21   142.25 

Scriptures  147.30   148.10 
150.4 

scroll  416.18 

scrubby  194.5 

scud  358.24 

sculling  25.24   27.7 

sculpture  333.15   400.23 

sculptured  402.18   416.30 

scuttling  343.5 

scythe  34.13   52.13 

scythes  5.3   37.1 

Scythia  131.4 

Scythian  119.23 

Scythians  336.16 

sea  35.24   35.28   36.9   58.20 
61.15   85.28   87.1   87.11 
87.13   88.7   88.15   89.21 
89.27   90.5   91.30   96.20 
103.9   105.18   113.8   113.18 
117.23   167.31   189.28   191.12 
201.3   202.7   202.9   203.24 
213.20   228.8   254.5   254.16 

254.31  255.4   257.11   257.13 

259.2  264.12   271.15   312.23 


sea  (cont.) 


63 


setting 


sea  (cont.)  370.3   385.18 
398.13   411.17 

seaboard  119.21   151.13   189.8 
200.24 

sea-fish  24.8 

sea-fishers  75.5 

sea-floor  31.23 

sealed  420.5 

sealer  77.29   386.15 

search  51.31   188.2 

searched  215.27 

searching  329.10   381.6 

seared  245.30 

seas  30.31   96.17   151.14   238.9 
278.8   366.16 

seashore  185.22   205.9   420.15 

seaside  23.4   211.10 

season  4.23   5.1   8.19   17.31 
18.8   19.3   20.27   28.13 
32.15   33.27   36.12   37.5 
44.20   45.18   55.26   85.10 
91.2   130.6   181.17   230.10 
262.20   301.4   335.27   341.28 

356.12  372.3   377.21   392.1 
seasoned  304.11 

seasons  21.20   312.25   405.7 

405.11   415.19 
seat  216.14   304.20 
seats  216.9 
sea-walls  54.26 
seaward  121.3   309.21 
seclusion  190.17 
second  250.11   269.3   329.5 

375.29   377.10 
secondary  331.14 
secrecy  330.23   331.3 
secret  35.4   37.15   71.26   117.11 

129.3   236.16   250.13   281.6 

330.10   331.1   331.2   338.16 
secretes  101.11 
sect  137.12 
secular  77.8 
secure  203.8   287.10   312.19 

332.3   333.24   340.17   349.13 
securely  312.15   414.3 
secures  45.25 
security  24.12   190.28   222.3 

239.31   291.22 
sedate  385.10 
sedentary  326.11   394.19 
sedge  4.30   22.19 
sedulously  5.2 
see   #114 
seed  129.24   129.25   129.29 

150.24   237.30 
seeds  11.21   23.22   52.4  .52.15 

111.10   129.22   129.25   129.26 

227.28  308.29   377.25   407.23 
415.21 

seed-vessels  245.16 

seeing  116.1   164.17   169.28 

191.13  192.12   202.26   234.1 
250.19   413.7   413.8 

seek  113.9   212.13   249.26   265.3 

280.10   281.2 
seeker  279.10 

seeking  35.5   52.20   99.31 
seeks  298.7   400.28 
seem  34.18   36.27   46.6   58.23 

66.5   67.17   102.11   106.3 

106.14  107.7   111.5   120.2 
159.16   162.28   177.17   189.23 
193.3   200.31   220.28   236.7 

236.29  256.27   260.5   288.11 


seem  (cont.)  312.5   330.24 

353.20  358.12  373.6  393.23 
411.11   420.11 

seemed  17.17   18.2   18.29   19.10 
19.31   20.4   37.29   38.2   38.11 
38.19   43.30   44.15   45.14 
45.15   48.12   48.23   53.28 
66.23   72.6   81.20   81.30 
116.22   116.28   117.2   117.17 

117.21  122.11   126.30   127.16 

165.25  170.2   189.5   190.7 

190.13  191.15   194.30   196.5 

203.7  205.13  209.29  213.17 
213.31   215.14   221.29   234.3 

235.17  254.30   307.25   315.12 
319.2   345.28   353.1   353.3 

354.5  355.5   385.22   406.10 
416.13 

seeming  78.19   117.8   219.27 
seemingly  70.21   81.31   320.11 
seems  28.18   65.29   97.28   118.11 

125.26  149.24   155.15   157.14 

158.8  160.10   231.19   238.26 

275.27  343.24   345.13   369.31 

370.28  391.28 
seen   #95 

seer  392.12   408.25 

seers  282.11 

sees  70.30   81.8   148.13   204.23 

231.6  327.29   328.21   348.1 
348.2   373.2   392.13   399.7 

seines  32.26   87.22   152.25 

seized  174.11   216.1 

seizes  106.12   364.30 

select  51.29   98.6   330.2   402.15 

selecting  335.20 

selection  285.20 

self  294.21 

selfish  36.13   284.14 

self-luminousness  376.7 

self-possessed  401.17 

self-respect  347.18 

sell  98.16   192.12   220.12   335.14 

selves  182.5 

semblance  24.2   119.9   420.19 

send  10.29   111.10   111.12   290.5 

sends  60.2   85.11 

seniors  33.1 

sensation  60.5 

sensations  94.12 

sense  24.12   53.5   60.13   63.14 
101.28   112.20   116.28   128.30 
141.19   142.6   143.3   146.7 
146.8   150.9   153.18   154.4 

154.6  155.27   167.3   181.14 

181.19  193.3   200.26   221.6 

231.7  300.3      311.2      320.9 

331.14  332.30   337.13   337.14 
345.24   347.12   386.28   394.14 

397.18  397.27  401.11  406.9 
406.30  408.13  408.25  413.9 
414.13   414.16   414.16 

senses  160.28   183.5   389.17 

408.8  408.9   408.29   409.16 

412.22  413.3 

sensible  19.11   142.16   374.16 

403.20  413.10 
sensual  218.6   240.6 
sensuous  408.8 

sent  33.1   96.3   114.10   137.11 

185.19  210.8   266.28   336.4 
sentence  60.21   106.17   107.28 

109.7   110.5   153.25   153.25 
153.28   153.29   155.17   157.23 


sentence  (cont.)  280.26   350.17 

415.14 
sentenced  155.8 
sentences  72.27   74.4   93.19 

95.3   102.16   105.30   106.21 

106.29  107.14  107.17  109.15 
109.31  109.31  149.26  155.23 
155.28   157.14   158.10   329.29 

sententious  153.31 

sentient  413.11 

sentiment  111.15   289.4   296.10 

397.30  399.4 
sentimentality  108.21 
sentiments  195.2 

separate  47.31   51.3   175.11 

261.26   304.4   411.12 
separated  292.11   315.22   333.10 

374.29 
September  64.19   66.29   174.1 

210.21  345.27   376.29 
sepulchral  77.4 

sequel  418.27   419.24   419.26 
sequence  413.1 
sered  357.30 
serenaded  39.22 
serene  12.10   22.18   80.23 
94.24   99.31   101.29   120.6 

158.10  159.11   160.8   189.14 

238.26  238.29   239.8   245.25 

246.11  290.23   304.1   304.6 

309.27  346.7   348.29   365.9 
401.29 

serenely  92.15   98.8   338.15 
serener  310.8 
serenest  97.8 

serenity  24.13   132.26   157.20 
183.5   203.7   220.27   239.26 

256.22  385.31   394.4   405.12 
series  51.30   182.23 

serious  44.29   110.8   195.22 

300.14   326.8   404.27 
seriously  63.27   73.2   382.25 
sermon  66.26   72.10 
sermons  40.23   72.11   74.1 

123.4   135.31 
serpent  34.14   103.13 
serpents  81.6 
servant  305.8 
servants  418.16 
serve  13.23   60.26   108.12 

251.30   298.15   333.22   395.6 
served  13.5   22.22   48.16 

170.16  246.29   263.31   337.7 
serves  26.1   93.9 

service  79.23   89.11   115.2 
117.11   139.6   261.5   268.28 
269.1   283.1   290.18   298.3 
298.22   305.9   327.12   344.2 
380.25   395.2 

serviceable  304.31 

services  114.3   282.30 

serving  117.10   148.31   388.13 

set  13.14   29.16   52.14   52.24 
70.18   110.20   122.13   135.17 

150.17  180.6   192.9   194.3 
200.9   209.26   222.19   256.20 
274.3   274.11   274.20   300.31 
309.13   323.16   333.18   335.29 

350.18  354.13   361.20   382.1 
383.22   389.18   402.7   407.23 

sets  13.3   21.15   94.23   383.6 
setting  38.17   40.27   93.29 
138.20   170.9   180.1   193.29 
214.13   215.30   254.13   290.2 


setting  (cont.) 


64 


shower 


setting  (cont.)  322.1   324.2 

381.28  400.6   407.5   416.15 
settle  380.30 

settled  34.4   34.5   49.13   70.23 

168.10  176.23   216.14   217.1 

258.16  285.8   322.17   340.13 
365.21 

settlement  268.7   329.12   342.19 
settlements  124.30   207.15   345.2 
settler  114.20   114.23   115.14 

247.5   323.25 
settlers  3.4   49.14   86.5 

90.13   93.1   168.5   180.9 

190.25   191.10   205.1   245.26 

326.27 
settles  395.30 
seven  26.30   38.7   114.10   124.27 

189.29  260.2   262.26   324.6 

342.11  342.21   390.14 
seventeen  379.29 
seventeenth  64.23 
seventeen-year  360.24 
seventh  8.24   64.5   66.2  3 

66.28   119.27 
seventy  113.22   324.6 
seventy-eight  85.27 
seventy-five  88.23   89.3   345.30 
sever  53.6 
several  13.4   31.31   43.21   72.21 

150.4   152.27   193.4   193.29 

209.20  210.24   211.16   252.23 

254.17  269.5   273.31   307.25 
322.3 

severe  73.18 

severely  178.5 

severest  328.28   329.1   329.20 

severs  404.31 

sewing  355.11 

sex  282.21   287.17   287.20 

287.21  288.5 

sexes  287.7   287.19   287.21 
shad  32.3   32.9   32.14   33.3 

34.7      35.15      35.17      35.22 

36.4      36.10      91.1      91.3      91.6 

91.26 
shad-blossom  91.9 
shade  92.25   128.6   166.7   213.7 

235.24   246.21   274.17   336.18 
shaded  351.15   376.9 
shades  161.6   197.11   394.3 
shad-fly  91.9 
shading  392.2 
shadow  29.15   38.18   79.1   197.10 

198.23  198.26   254.27   328.18 

341.13  375.20   375.30   376.19 
shadows  38.21   118.18   118.26 

176.24  198.21   235.16   245.28 

310.14  340.15   340.23   375.17 

376.12  405.3   416.19 
shadowy  176.28   199.9 

shady  27.11   92.12   96.17   198.12 

shaft  16.21   45.24   97.17   367.10 

shagbark  227.18 

shaggy  65.23   123.28   230.24 

shake  187.17   290.3 

shaken  11.20 

shakes  132.7   224.9 

Shakespeare  6.23   97.31   149.24 
281.14   328.7   363.20   391.26 
396.21   398.2   399.2   401.16 
412.25 

Shakespeare's  31.22 

shaking  188.12   360.30 

shall   #47 


shallow  4.13   13.4   25.6   26.1 

28.25   29.13   31.7   43.14   189.6 

195.3   213.9   323.20 
shallower  8.8   18.12   61.29 

116.30   250.22 
shallowest  47.27   361.30   403.5 
shallows  20.20   82.5 
shalt  36.19   66.27 
shame  63.14   288.21   291.3 
shape  60.30   99.25   265.4   361.10 

363.1 
shapely  13.11 
shapes  340.1 
share  228.21   350.2 
sharks  24.31 
sharp  194.14   357.3 
sharper  211.12   377.5 
sharpest  331.21 
shaven  198.12 

shavings  338.28   340.8   340.9 
Shawshine  49.20 
she   #46 
sheaves  404.28 
shed  68.2   101.16   165.6   231.29 

370.27   377.21 
shedding  52.6 
sheds  113.19 
sheep  209.1   209.7   209.8   217.11 

237.22   317.10   334.11   359.2 
sheepish  318.5 
sheep-pasture  209.1 
sheepskins  228.24 
sheer  346.13 
sheered  48.31 
sheet  79.23   314.11   351.13 

372.17 
Shelburne  Falls  261.18   261.31 

262.20  . 
sheldrakes  6.14 
shelf  353.29 
shell  185.22 
shells  246.8   262.30 
shelter  221.24   319.7 
sheltered  190.26 
shepherds  257.23 
Sherman's  Bridge  4.14 
shield  26.14   265.29   373.7 

373.10 
shields    10.11      265.1 
shift    74.28 
shifted    372.13 
shifting   259.12 
shifts    117.13      336.30 
shillings    34.3 
shine    60.22      133.20      157.1 

159.29  260.23 
shined    347.28 

shiner    21.26      26.30      28.23      29.8 

shiners    27.13 

shines    133.24      163.10      164.18 

314.30  376.17      393.29 
shingling   230.4 

shining   11.22      40.13      104.7 
196.5      196.6      226.9      346.5 
357.12       390.18 

ship    13.22      13.24      191.11      191.13 
224.22      308.6      312.31 

ships    228.8      254.18 

ship's    253.29 

ship-timber    221.11 

shipwrecked    100.26      280.4 

shire    134.28 

shirt  211.19   304.25   360.17 

shirts  360.18 


Shittim  51.24 

shivered  3  34.7 

shoal  413.13 

shoals  23.8   26.29   30.19 
30.29   32.23   35.26   48.30 
91.25 

shock  36.3   304.22   304.27 

shocks  304.28 

shoes  4.29   166.9   168.27 
193.18   326.3   368.25 

shoe-strings  311.9 

shone  58.30   164.5   325.2 
346.3 

shoot  111.11   231.6 

shooting  365.20 

shop  50.27 

shop-worn  221.4 

shore  4.22   4.23   5.28   12.5 
14.1   17.23   18.16   20.24 
24.8   24.21   25.6   27.3 
30.16   38.5   39.4   39.5 
39.20   43.15   44.1   49.7 
62.23   78.20   82.5   87.22 
92.7   96.20   97.3   105.19 

115.25  116.14  116.15  122.1 
122.18   127.7   148.13   152.24 

152.26  165.22   165.22   175.28 

188.6  190.31   202.28   205.7 
205.22   221.28   225.21   227.17 
227.22   227.26   228.1   228.1 

228.7  228.17  235.21  245.31 
246.10  248.6  249.18  250.23 
251.13   252.30   255.13   255.16 

256.4  273.27   280.5   307.19 

309.7  309.10  309.13  321.27 
322.6   327.2   339.31   343.12 

344.10  353.2   354.28   356.17 

357.11  357.11   357.15   366.15 
372.2   373.13   381.17   383.3 
383.28   385.15   420.22 

shores  6.12   23.9   78.14   128.16 
185.24   212.25   246.3   252.26 

264.8  278.12  307.16  345.28 
357.2   362.1   373.20   384.26 

shorn  376.30   404.24 
short  18.29   20.5   34.1   44.20 
107.21   108.31   111.1   134.20 

151.5  174.21   213.31   232.5 

244.27  271.18   292.11   298.15 

303.9  310.17   343.8   368.9 

372.24  376.2   417.4 
shorter  29.28   191.25   217.16 
shortest  70.19   325.6 
short-lived  55.20 

Short's  257.27 

shot  49.6   125.26   212.1   274.20 
should   #110 
shoulder  180.27   222.18 
shouldered  334.3 
shoulders  136.3   136.5   348.8 
shout  225.25 
shouted  192.22   212.1 
shouting  77.19   122.19 
shouts  106.12   119.29 
shove  12.14   357.1 
shoved  24.26   249.17 
shovel  207.17 
shoving  13.4 

show  6.5   50.2   73.5   122.8 
168.27   239.22   274.11 

339.25  359.23 

showed  17.30   202.28   219.5 

265.11   342.27   381.26 
shower  191.18   319.7 


showers 


65 


slab 


417.5 


367.14 


111.8   127.16 
252.12   336.8 


showers  277.29   347.29 

showery  318.19 

showing  114.29   189.22 

shown  73.13   158.1   198.19   379.25 

shows  13.12   13.16   33.24   66.24 

390.8   397.29 
shrilly  180.26 
shrine  65.28   387.17 
shrink  254.30 
shriveled  414.7 
shrub  38.26   210.17 
shrubby  113.15 
shrubs  63.3   379.6 
shrunk  59.24   310.28 
shudder  275.21 
shuffling  274.10 
shut  19.7   38.20 

197.25   222.21 

357.19  416.10 
shutting  30.7   324.22 
sibyl  327.24 

Sibyl  109.25 

Sibyls  59.5   160.11 

sick  35.10   35.12   78.7   78.8 

266.30 
sicker  35.13 
sickness  35.7   58.9 
side  4.24   10.8   20.26   21.1 

25.3   34.24   38.8   43.22   90.5 
117.4   118.30   122.24 

130.8  151.9   152.21 
169.13   173.30   174.3 
177.3   192.27   196.9 

199.9  200.12   205.13 

205.20  206.21   208.26   222.17 
226.6   227.12 

244.30 
256.19 
273.28 


99.3 
127.5 
167.2 
175.  3 
198.6 


227.22   235.13 

239.25   244.30   245.3   253.24 
253.29   256.19   257.1   265.12 
265.13   273.28   295.28   304.9 
318.13   320.6   334.22   334.29 
339.6   340.19   341.2   341.12 
344.21   355.1   357.5   363.16 
363.16   372.16   373.1   376.9 
383.16   393.5   416.28 
sides  8.16   18.10   24.26   26.2 
26.10   29.13   38.28   82.6 
86.28   214.30   254.30   341.3 
.1 
357.24 


359.1  370 
sigh  187.16 
sighed  238.6 
sighs  329.21 
sight  14.7 

87.21 

127.15 


19.19  19.30  38.22 
100.28  107.10  117.13 
150.19  151.7  166.27 
179.6  191.10  205.18  213.15 
227.19  245.4  248.19  254.12 
256.3  300.4  305.3  317.14 
336.12   344.30   357.1   367.19 

375.1  377.11   409.12 
sights  6.15   38.16   180.4 
sign  43.13   287.23   289.13 

290.2  301.3 
signed  233.24 
significance  61.8   68.11 

157.21   302.10   331.16 
significant  59.19   181.13   218.28 

273.2   368.16 
signifies  61.17 
signify  61.16 
signifying  85.25 
signing  138.27 
sign-post  215.9 
signs  37.10   73.6 
silence  22.8   39.27   141.21 

181.11   216.8   273.2   285.28 


143. 
407. 


317.8 
393.7 
418.12 
418.27 


418.12 
418.25 


295.8 
419. 


254.8 

28.28   29.3   48.30 
167.24   258.13 


silence  (cont.)  288.28   288.29 

295.4   295.9   295.12   295.16 
330.25   335.25   336.10 
417.22   417.28 
418.19   418.22 
419.30   420.1 
silenced  72.25   314.29 
silent  198.19   207.30   235.30 

264.22   265.19   275.20   280.24 

289.7      295.6      295.7 

318.26   343.10   416.26 

419.20   419.23   420.7 
silently  12.16   14.3   17.18   21. 

170.6   223.2   235.16   249.14 

278.4   289.10   310.15   355.11 

417.19 
silken  45.16 
silly  22.21 
silver  24.5 

74.15   89.20 

327.11 
silvery  20.25 
similar  153.9 

191.12  208 
261.16   292 

similarity  339.27 
similes  94.31   369.30 
similitude  58 . 3 
Simon  Detogkom  233 
Simonides  239.18 
simple  24.19   57.8 

135.3   181.18   221.10 

237.28  238.5   263.31 
325.25   367.16   368.20 

394.29  398.17   399.2 
simple-minded  68.18   224.11 
simpler  94.29 
simplest  94.11   94.26 

167.13  220.30   367 
398.8 

simplify  386.22 
simply  129.19   293.11 

325.24   347.19 
since  4.26   16.3 


27.23 

173.21 

.5   210.9 

3   395.2 


,24 


28.19   255. 
190.22 
227.6 
399.6 


110. 


3   132.11 
222.23 
265.29 
387.30 


165.11 
6      372.15 


62.30 

149.8 

225.7 

233.29 

257.5 

273.22 

365.16 

393.9 


295.8 
401. 30 
23.6   33.24 
81.22   94.19   102.29 
168.18   173.20   -191.12 
225.14   227.1   232.11 
251.9   251.24   252.2 

262.16  266.6   272.14 
325.30   329.27   345.14 
380.16   382.17   384.11 

402.17  420.21 
sincere  54.13   101.4   155.11 

159.13   211.27   230.25   256.10 

256.30   283.21   283.21   326.7 

374.5 
sincerely  284.10 
sincerity  18.1   108.9 

156.18   288.30   351. 
sinew  251.31 
sinews  109.16   110.15 
sing  14.30   78.28   94.17   104.26 

131.30   145.28   320.15   328.11 

329.18 
singing  131.10   180.26   185.18 

225.21   303.14   328.4 
single  37.6   148.28   196.21 

205.8   205.9   222.15   225.29 

231.4   235.28   339.6   339.18 

363.29   382.4 
sings  94.15   164.29   314.14 

315.15  329.1   368.15   398.11 
singular  11.25   26.4   54.12   59.7 

64.8   75.7   149.19   153.17 

191.16  194.26   195.18   201.2 


109.13 
3   398.! 


367.15 


singular  (cont.)  217.27   311.14 

312.9 
sink  24.2   319.27 
sinking  116.13   117.19   262.6 
sinks  21.23 
sins  262.11 
siphons  194.10 
sipped  52.25 
sir  106.25 
Sirens  58.29 

Sir  James  Clark  Ross's  390.7 
Sir  Joseph  Banks  231.13 
Sir  Thomas  Browne  69.7 
Sir  William  Jones  154.11 
sister  65.17   139.9 
sisters  49.5   284.19 
Sisyphus-like  262.10 
sit  6.16   21.20   110.27 

131.9   160.13   161.2 

291.8   326.14   374.17 

383.26   394.25 
site  51.25   213.27   411 
sits  206.10   257.10   311 

341.7 
sitting  21.19   37.24   56 

78.3   130.27   130.28 

235.29   252.10   307.24 

326.13   335.25 
situated  342.16 
situation  39.16 
six  26.30   62.19 

118.29   123.7 

208.3   227.27 

271.21   307.12 

413.27 
sixteen  221.20   262.18 
six  thousand  420.2 
sixtieth  347.1 


372.10 

197.28 

66.22 

127.27 

250.28 

330.2 


116.5 
162.18 
374.24 

.20 
.22 

.24 

212.30 
326.11 
383.2 


66.27 
189.28 
271.9 
382.3 


sixty 

166.2 

343 

.7 

346. 

21 

size  28.15   30.23   31.13 

43. 

27 

197 

4   216 

27 

333 

.25 

367. 

11 

381 

2   414 

10 

sizes 

262.14 

skeletons  61 

12 

162 

.19 

267. 

2 

sketching  230.18 

skies 

47.28 

170 

.10 

370 

.5 

383 

5   409 

20 

413 

.13 

skiff 

48.9 

skiffs  5.30 

skill 

200.29 

298.7 

298 

.9 

301 

24   332.28 

364.18 

36^ 

.2 

skillful  129 

6 

236. 

24 

skimmed  179.2 

skin 

30.14   160. 

25 

368. 

27 

skinned  237.6   326.19 

skins  367.29 

skip  79.9 

skirt- 53.25 

skirted  4.18   8.17   18.9 

153.14  227.17 
skirting  179.24   226.15 
skirts  22.28   179.13   23 

333.26   353.19 
skulked  334.10 
skulking  32.28   341.5 
skunks  119.18 
sky  38.25   39.10   45.31 

71.1   71.13   104.16   1 

123.15  157.18.  157.21 

159.13  166.29   208.13 
309.26   353.17   407.3 

416.14  416.24   416.30 
skyey  104.16 

skylight  181.24 
slab  203.13 


37.16 


339.6 
5.32 


47.32 
18.26 
158.12 
252.24 

408.2  3 


slain 


66 


slain  368.11 
slander  107.5   275.29 
slanted  219.17 
slave  413.26 
slavery  136.17 
slaves  135.14 
slay  140.27 

sleep  19.7   49.17   119.13   119.15 
120.7   120.8   121.5   141.29 

156.17  196.27   229.32   239.19 

340.18  342.31   344.31 
sleeping  217.5   325.20 

slender  13.4   19.29   21.16   26.28 

368.29  416.24 
slenderest  288.1 

slept  196.15   213.7   223.29 

slicing  130.10 

slid  208.1 

slide  314.9 

slight  16.21   28.19   37.24   42.5 
43.31   81.27   126.29   177.16 
190.10   200.31   205.1   205.21 
224.13   232.8   235.24   239.23 
256.4   289.20   300.27   300.29 
329.22   354.30   376.21   388.29 
395.25 

slighter  29.8 

slightest  59.18   195.19 

slightly  28.2   43.18   59.28   71.9 
72.4   222.8   341.28 

slime  133.16   160.21 

slimy  31.2   105.29   250.7 

slip  362.23 

slippery  24.4   318.20 

slippery-elm  272.5 

slipping  29. 3 

sloops  254.18 

slope  148.14 

slopes  212.13 

sloping  119.1   153.13   190.2 
190.22   227.31   353.29 

slough  106.7 

slow  22.26   40.8   53.5   59.19 
65.3   132.19   132^20   194.11 
222.27   274.7   304.9   311.10 

slower  106.4   381.30 

slowest  133.9 

slowly  25.23   29.17   38.11 
59.13   94.14   179.7   222.18 

244.30  251.23   251.29   274.3 
sluggard  331.19   332.3 
sluggards  218.21 

sluggish  9.31   17.22   245.18 
274.4 

sluice  246.29 

slumber  138.17 

slumbered  165.21 

slumbering  53.1   86.8   188.2 

slumbers  165.26 

slush  361.3 

sly  38.4 

smacking  384.13 

small  18.6   25.4   27.2   28.26 
50.23   89.5   89.30   93.21 
119.22   152.15   152.32   153.6 
166.6   168.23   194.11   197.7 
202.18   204.3   207.26   208.3 
208.29   213.14   216.26   222.5 
222.22   227.10   237.10   245.13 
245.17   246.4   251.2   256.1 

256.17  258.2   271.23   307.31 
309.8   321.25   357.5   379.4 
382.27 

smaller  4.19   17.22   44.11   89.4 

249.18  253.4 


smallest  8.3   24.6   159.12   253.4 

258.2  301.14 
small-featured  202.2 
small-voiced  256.29 
smell  182.3   408.11 
smile  79.20   131.18   199.6 

344.13   344.25 
smith  364.19 
Smith's  87.6 
smoke  42.2   127.22   179.16   205.3 

235.15   314.10   358.2 
smoke-like  4.19 
smoking  249.3 
smooth  81.28   116.6   198.11 

224.22   245.20   261.24   262.2 

262.28   340.1   402.20 
smoothed  52.9   129.17 
smoothest  193.7 
smoothly  116.2 
smoothness  45.13   216.25 
smothered  22.11 
snails  249.23   255.14 
snail's  347.24 
snake  29.23 
snake-head  18.16 
snakes  136.27 
snappish  67.26 
snatched  288.18 
sniveling  348.22 
snow  24.3   87.5   210.17   304.5 

342.10   371.2   381.29   390.16 

392.4 
snows  156.30   230.26 
snowy  101.24   198.11   231.20 
snug  253.10   357.17 
so   #331 
soaked  319.31 
soapwort  gentian  18.21 
soar  167.7   397.29 
sober  4.17   116.27   155.16 

195.28   333.9   333.12   360.16 

376.29 
soberly  48.29   109.1   109.3 
soberness  361.3   402.22 
so-called  74.9   412.15 
sociableness  320.10 
social  55.4   132.31   280.7 

298.5  361.3   393.1 
societies  161.23   162.1 
society  55.15   64.27   66.7   98.7 

132.4   133.2   134.4   136.26 
218.1   239.3   287.15   288.18 

293.3  293.21   294.15   319.20 
327.10   349.13   393.14   418.10 

Society-Islanders  55.20 
Socrates  132.25   137.13   412.25 
sod  101.25   209.2   209.26   210.15 

264.17   404.28 
soever  67.1 
soft  53.23 
soften  304.7 

soft-scaled  27.23   28.23 
soil  52.15   52.23   107.9   129.27 
160.15   160.29   204.27   218.10 
264.7   265.25   312.3   347.27 
375.27   382.12   394.16   400.9 

405.6  409.27 
sojourned  235.27 
sojourning  155.3 
solacement  236.28 
solaces  393.30 
sold  382.2 

soldier  140.26   146.28   183.23 

333.30   334.9 
soldier-like  334.6 


soldiers  33.10   154.3 

soldier ' s  33.13 

sole  66.21   183.21   326.21 

419.9 
solely  23.1   74.11 
solemn  23.1   29.14   75.5   265.17 
soles  326.3   368.25 
solid  51.29   214.16   312.7 

347.27   354.7   357.4   374.5 
solidity  229.27 
solid-standing  229.30 
solitary  38.20   169.8   179.8 

211.11   214.14   235.31   247.9 

247.29  280.2  343.21  344.17 
390.16   416.22 

solitude  57.3   86.6   150.29 

288.27   291.23   336.13   363.31 
418.11 

solitudes  250.19 

Solomon  227.6 

Solon  265.8   360.13 

solstice  377.23 

solution  332.13 

solve  74.28   318.4 

sombre  18.1   49.1   78.15 

some   #331 

somebody  163.26   272.9 

somehow  111.23 

somerset  206.8 

something  28.30   56.6   56.7 

112.2  132.14   132.15   167.3 

179.22  182.3   208.12   216.21 

222.24  239.15   250.4   254.2 

272.4  286.1  290.31  374.5 
374.20  379.1  387.5  388.3 
402.11   406.3 

sometimes  3.20   5.1   24.22   27.4 
29.23   29.30   30.5   30.15 
30.21   30.23   31.8   31.11 
31.16   37.3   43.10   45.2 
49.25   53.25   54.20   55.24 
56.2   61.8   82.10   94.19 

102.30  104.4  115.23  130.25 
136.9  142.30  149.24  153.23 
155.30   177.30   189.23   203.15 

204.25  204.29   206.14   206.20 

212.5  212.7   213.15   216.10 

221.23  226.13   226.17   226.25 
245.14   252.11   252.15   253.9 

255.7  256.3   256.18   257.10 
275.14   276.3   284.26   294.30 

295.20  308.17   326.25   326.31 

344.13  354.28   365.6   383.20 

384.24  404.1 

somewhat  19.18   56.5   74.27 

110.21  126.27   152.19   271.18 
366.29   393.3 

somewhere  224.8   224.19 

somnambulist  312.14 

son  22.5   70.23   123.21   169.3 

215.21   268.12   359.5   362.25 

371.10 
song  39.22  78.28   94.19   131.30 

225.25  238.10   392.28   394.7 
sonnets  364.2 

son  of  Morning  58.26 
sons  359.5 

soon  14.13   19.30   22.30   52.22 
71.14   73.5   85.6   114.18 

117.14  119.6   150.28   151.20 
169.16   179.6   179.16   180.1 
180.5   192.23   194.16   194.20 
200.13   207.26   216.14   225.13 

245.3  275.27   337.18   342.18 

354.8  357.6   358.2   362.20 


soon  (cont.) 


67 


squirrel 


soon  (cont.)  363.22   376.25 

383.14   392.1   409.26 
sooner  79.5   98.3   133.12 

224.10  300.11 
soothe  167  .  3 

soothed  98.29   120.9   315.10 
soothing  55.31   272.2 
Sophocles  139.1 
sore  209.8   209.9   326.4   326.5 

334.4 
sores  79.14   209.14   326.20 
sorest  288.18 
sorrow  291.9   371.1 
sort  13.9   23.1   71.27   72.16 

74.26  75.10   77.30   101.28 

111.13  190.11   201.5   215.12 
217.24   223.10   223.11   227.22 
230.17   248.9   265.21   295.15 
296.12   314.22   329.4   331.27 
337.1   407.13   417.23 

Soucook  87.8 

sough  266.7   327.3 

sought  21.14   59.26   220.25 

290.12   418.18 
Souhegan  87.7   231.30   234.3 

357.6 
soul  155.3   159.15   186.3   250.20 

273.11  330.21   375.21 
Soul  131.1 

souls  12.5   77.31   121.5   237.24 

309.5 
sound  39.23   40.1   40.11   40.30 

49.27  50.3      54.22      78.13 
78.17      78.24      97.3      126.6 

146.8  157.26   176.21   181.12 

184.9  186.1   208.2   211.14 
213.21   226.5   235.24   239.17 
240.4   245.1   256.5   256.26 
273.28   317.2   327.27   328.6 

328.10  331.23   354.30   363.10 
406.21   409.16   417.22   417.27 

418.14  419.19 

sounded  40.15   49.29   356.7 

sounder  35.14 

sounding  151.6   230.20   419.20 

sounding-boards  166.17 

soundings  223.7 

sounds  40.28   41.4   49.25   81.27 

119.24   181.18   182.23   183.24 

200.26   238.18   238.20   266.8 

336.8   356.6   358.20   407.22 

408.16   418.16 
sour  365.12   402.8 
source  4.3   89.19   335.1   376.13 

379.17 
sources  10.28   37.5   203.22 
south  4.2   37.24   85.27   90.3 

158.14   235.22   271.21   323.31 

361.29 
South  Adams  192.14 
Southborough  3.19   5.12 
southern  56.9   158.19   212.13 
South  Pacific  77.29 
South  Sea  90.11   323.18 
southwest  10.2   20.1   104.13 

157.31   158.10   200.10   244.28 

416.14 
space  24.23   67.27   71.25   106.29 

160.31   193.23   346.19   369.33 

393.3   413.19 
spaces  161.7   411.12   412.23 
spacious  189.30   191.1 
spade  54.9 
span  100.24   346.24 


spangles  29. 3 

spar  117.30   402.10 

spare  287.23 

spared  153.22   168.15 

spark  411.30 

sparkling  89.19   192.3   301.25 
308.3   322.4 

Sparkling  Water  259.22 

sparrow  39.22   102.4   220.6 
319.2 

sparrows  236.28 

Spaulding  21.22 

spawn  23.11   25.1   25.3   49.5 

spawned  28.9 

spawning  36.12 

speak  14.3   14.6   35.9   66.3 
71.21   71.22   77.24   100.21 
111.22   111.24   111.25   148.19 
164.25   215.24   231.6   276.2 
280.27   281.8   283.30   283.31 
284.3   295.20   295.25   326.10 

326.13  349.5   351.1   363.28 

369.31  388.31   389.19   396.28 
400.3   400.25   403.8   406.19 
408.26 

speaker  106.24   108.1   401.9 

speakers  79.4 

speaking  74.13   108.22   134.1 

141.14  143.3  148.18  161.23 
261.14  271.4  274.14  389.26 
398.29 

speaking-trumpet  419.9 
speaks  111.27   146.19   156.31 

275.12  295.5  347.29  348.4 
397.1  397.3  397.15  408.24 
419.7 

speared  31.4 

spearer  30.28 

spears  63.20   368.1 

species  18.9   19.5   23.20   24.10 

24.29   25.10   26.16   26.26 

31.2   31.31   43.19 
specimens  26.31   339.21   361.8 
speck  255.7 

spectacle  359.7   359.7 
spectator  162.24   347.30 
Spectators  329.28 
speculation  142.5 

speculations  141.6   247.4   412.19 
speculator  98.18 
speech  107.19   165.13   182.31 

267.32  285.26   400.21   418.11 
speeches  405.20 

speed  206.21   359.13   384.15 

414.19 
speedily  344.12 
speedy  37.14 
spell  409.21 
spelling  64.10 

spend  12.21   179.8   229.32   368.5 
spending  235.23 
spends  157.2 
spendthrift  129.28 
spent  85.13   204.18   214.5 

317.13  353.27   376.20   385.25 
sphere  181.12   373.3   411.9 

411.31 
spheres  412.28 
spherical  376.15 
Sphinx  59.2 
spider  180.27 
spiders  354.1 
spindles  85.10 
spinning- jenny  99.28 


spinster  66.14 
spire  19.20   53.24   167.5 
spires  6.5 

spirit  3.8   55.26   74.29   81.5 
120.9   139.8   157.7   177.21 

178.21  273.8   348.16   370.4 
375.31   381.7   398.10   400.19 

spiritual  74.9   143.3   298.5 

spiritualized  405.5 

spirits  110.4   177.16   205.24 

283.7  358.12 

spite  35.28   104.24   362.30 

362.31 
splendid  347.27 
splendor  164.26   165.16 
splicing  86.29 
split  108.16 
splitting  86.29 
spoilt  75.19 
spoke  94.25   170.17   370.15 

404.18 
spoken  77.2   81.10   94.7   106.23 

107.31   156.11   274.12   289.27 

295.22  381.18   397.8   401.8 
spoon  194.22   325.7   325.17 
sport  22.31   28.29   32.29   53.7 

119.25   360.26 
spot  26.17   193.19   198.18 

207.14   208.21   318.8   344.27 

380.13   380.28   381.1 
spots  85.3 
sprang  52.14 
spray  5.16   251.26   379.4 

385.13 
sprays  44.17 
spread  20.22   43.21   102.18 

118.29  119.5   174.7   180.8 
198.6   202.23   205.6   209.8 
209.13   213.9   222.29   257.5 
318.6   327.15   363.18   385.7 

spreading  174.20   209.5   235.15 

spreads  273.17 

spring  4.9   12.18   30.29   36.1 
38.9   43.2   51.31   91.28 
101.19  -102.16   103.9   107.11 
111.1   133.15   136.28   156.31 

160.30  203.12   203.22   215.24 
215.28   216.2   216.7   216.11 
232.6   245.29   251.24   262.16 

266.8  292.6   344.6   393.20 
414.5   420.25 

springiness  360.20 

springing  55.9 

spring-like  194.9 

springs  10.13   202.29   203.29 

203.30   383.18 
sprinkle  139.3 
sprinkled  18.21   152.33   153.5 

199.5 
sprite  178.21 
sprout  163.6 
spruce  318.26   339.18 
sprung  179.26   227.28   354.31 
spun  13  5.23 

Sguam  86.8   87.4   89.14 
squared  177.9 
squashes  256.18 
squaw  342.31 
squeak  206.12 
squeaking  29.31 
squint  409.1 
squire  64.21 
squirming  31.2   31.3 
squirrel  205.27   206.13   206.14 


squirrels 


68 


stooping 


squirrels  119.18   237.4   237.23 

246.5 
stable  215.1 
stacking  131.2 
stacks  403.21 

staff  117.14   136.13   189.18 
stage  74.20   226.19   333.13 

349.2  405.29 
stages  346.18 

stagnant  37.12   62.1   86.26 

137.3  141.24   250.17 
staid  48.29   62.16 

stain  71.13   198.18   199.19 
199.21 

stained  160.25   343.16 

staircase  261.2 

stairs  193.12 

stake  211.11 

stakes  209.7   252.22 

stale  197.22 

stalk  310.11 

stalks  344.16   361.7 

stall  215.5 

stalwart  110.18 

stamp  366.20   403.3 

stamped  67.16   166.30   226.10 

stamps  328.24 

stand  6.1   21.2   25.11   26.3 

26.5   35.6   37.1   68.31   93.21 
99.3   162.20   175.10   182.14 
193.22   224.15   250.22   253.31 
269.9   282.21   284.27   289.15 

294.2  298.5   304.29   319.16 
328.14   333.11   333.16   347.20 

353.19  358.2   363.13   363.16 
365.29   367.13   383.21   406.23 
409.27   413.30 

standard  107.29   107.30   110.13 

345.16  399.24 

standing  4.30   8.25   26.21   37.9 
37.12   37.18   71.3   87.24   89.18 

170.17  174.14   193.18   227.25 
250.14   274.1   305.9   326.14 
339.7   343.20   373.6   373.14 
380.30 

stands  21.24   122.17   138.19 

208.18  210.16   229.33   233.2 

269.3  304.18   368.27   380.23 
392.27 

standstill  39.6 

St.  Anne's  19.26 

staple  130.9 

star  39.21   161.1   180.24   188.6 

413.25  413.27 
star-dust  104.16 
stare  249.13 

starlight  219.11   225.24 
Starne  370.7 
starriest  383.13 

starry  55.16   387.10   412.20 

stars  40.13   46.6   55.19   155.24 

164.12   181.18   186.4   231.6 

239.7   239.24   250.16   257.24 

275.2   336.18   340.16   353.9 

353.20  363.7   367.14   367.20 

406.26  411.18   413.22   417.20 

417.27  417.30   418.6 
start  34.26   346.16 
started  218.22 
startle  155.31 
startled  49.27 

startling  78.22   254.2   344.11 

362.9 
starve  146.10   272.17 


starved  102.2 

starving  237.8 

state  31.2   40.30   71.17   85.17 
124.2   126.6   133.26   133.26 
135.8   136.9   140.30   147.9 
189.1   202.6   204.30   205.17 

231.15  250.7   263.12   272.21 
283.19   284.21   294.18   335.15 

state-coffer  414.9 

stated  126.16   130.3   268.17 

statelier  205.14 

stateliness  158.24 

stately  29.14   86.2   113.7 

254.7   274.7   417.1 
statement  290.6   380.16   386.13 

386.20 
statements  387.22 
Staten  Island  190.20   253.11 
states  132.5   408.30   413.26 
state's  115.19 
statesman  283.26 
stating  324.21 
station  253.18 
stationary  25.24   417.1 
statistics  98.8 
statue  79.28   97.17   185.20 
statues  20.31   266.22 
stave  69.21 
stay  138.27 

stayed  217.20   217.22   308.26 
staying  325.22 
stead  67.19   414.11 
steadfast  362.1 
steadily  24.21   150.30   164.18 

193.25   197.30   221.3   222.19 

226.6   335.28   338.20   361.19 

372.1   377.29   384.25 
steadiness  81 . 7 
steady  14.5   55.17   74.30   108.19 

151.5   249.25   253.31   274.8 

388.16  413.23 
steal  86.31   416.19 
stealing  222.31 

steals  9.31   249.13   340.14 

404.5 
stealthily  246.8 
stealthy-paced  133.4 
steam  42.5 

steamboat  87.20   89.5 
steamed  180.3 
steam-engine  90.7 
steam-power  99.29 
steed  361.26 
steel  56.22   263.3 
steep  88.19   191.25   192.19 

192.27   203.10   235.12   260.2 

333.27   413.3 
steepleless  227.15 
steeples  88.5   373.10 
steer  221.18   253.5   338.17 

344.4   362.17   385.10 
steered  200.11 
steering  81.20   151.5   200.29 

222.16   244.30 
steering-paddle  361.23 
steersman  45.30   274.14 
stem  36.25   206.18   382.4   420.23 
stemming  30.20   35.27   118.24 
stems  11.24   43.20   43.31   194.10 

333.28 
step  34.12   96.20   96.20   215.18 

257.1   308.13   334.3   390.11 

401.24 
stepped  181.23   223.24   300.9 


stepped  (cont.)  308.19   317.9 

384.22 
stepping  39.17   119.7   219.3 

309.13  328.7 
stepping-stone  153.29 
steps  22.26   76.37   183.28 

215.8      256.25      261.2      341.5 

343.12  353.22 
stereotyped  95.3   291.1   365.24 
stern  35.20   291.23   371.30 

391.24 
sternest  292.28 
sternly  366.29 
stern-man  117.26 
sternness  334.9 
stertorous  200.25 
Stesichorus  238.21 
stick  30.26   160.17   318.19 
sticking  20.17   380.12   390.24 
sticks  93.6   194.18 
stiff  5.21   36.25 
stifle  97.13 
still   #232 
stillest  314.13 
stillness  39.24   45.3   403.18 
stimulated  296.8   364.20 
stimulus  94.16 
stint  341.16 
stipulated  32.14 
stir  280.25 

stirred  129.26   185.31 
stirring  122.9   218.20   355.4 

359.24   394.18   396.16 
stirs  404.2 
stock  33.25   308.30   332.10 

362.23 
stocked  23.25   167.28 
stocks  52.7   361.14 
stock-still  318.4 
stole  37.30   38.5 
stolen  344.1 
stomach  29.22 
stone  14.17   74.6   84.30   113.19 

153.2  164.20   177.16   177.29 

196.14  207.18   207.26   208.2 

260.3  262.4   262.24   263.3 

266.18  284.1  322.8  345.26 
351.8  365.26  367.9  370.26 
402.21 

stoned  208.4 
Stone-Flume  261.16 
stonehenge  110.21   367.8   392.25 
stone-masons  247.28 
stones  31.13   31.16   52.3   91.22 
93.6   152.30   153.1   175.10 

177.13  177.25   194.14   194.19 

209.15  214.16   249.21   250.8 

262.8  262.14   263.12   263.16 
263.22   263.29   392.26 

stone-sucker  31.10 

stony  262.11 

stood  11.16   13.30   18.12   20.30 
22.12   25.13   33.7   39.10 
43.20   53.31   82.6   114.5 
161.27   167.30   168.6   168.8 

168.19  191.17   191.30   194.6 
207.27   211.18   215.22   227.15 

247.16  249.19   254.23   264.5 
271.2   271.6   274.10   318.4 

319.9  374.31   377.27   392.15 
406.25 

stools  273.13 
stooped  392.6 
stooping  26.3   222.17 


stoops 


69 


subterranean 


stoops  77.14 

stop  123.8   181.21   297.7 

343.30  385.24 

stopped  32.16   219.18   220.1 

325.26   325.28   376.20 
stops  298.15 
store  168.23 
stored  108.5 
stores  119.2   221.21   225.9 

307.15 
stories  58.29   399.17 
storks  78.22   417.2 
storm  190.29   198.24   239.12 

254.31  255.2   278.11 
storm-coat  249.22 

storms  190.1   368.1   392.22 
stormy  138.25   202.3 
story  8.3   60.20   67.21   72.13 
85.4   109.3   153.24   153.30 

158.17  162.2   165.7   174.9 
176.28   189.13   197.3   207.20 
208.5   228.22   231.10   248.2 

264.18  265.5   267.1   271.22 

314.23  343.8   343.24   397.6 
stout  22.6   101.14   230.30 

396.16 

stowed  102.7   206.5 

straggled  53.25 

straggling  38.24   204.26   205.1 

straight  5.20   20.12   20.28 

22.7   22.10   24.3   39.9   110.7 
192.17   193.25   279.13   322.4 

384.12  391.8 
straightforwardness  328.28 
straightly  43.16 

straightway  23.25   270.31   418.20 
strain  50.2   182.23   183.2   188.5 

285.13  303.7   329.16   363.10 
368.16   393.8   414.27 

straining  309.19 

strains  184.10   314.17   320.12 
363.8   393.27   403.7   407.14 

strand  87.23   370.20 

strange  58.16   68.31   73.16 
77.18   78.28   81.20   81.30 
115.30   131.7   166.28   196.19 

210.24  227.19   245.28   382.19 
419.16 

strangely  195.11   239.15   312.25 

stranger  56.5   57.1   127.13 
220.7   257.16   400.17 

strangers  55.17   212.9   246.17 
305.5   315.2 

stranger's  296.13 

strapped  325.4 

straps  236.23 

straw  79.22   247.12   247.15 
358.23   409.29 

strawberries  309.1 

stray  181.11 

strayed  235.32 

streak  18.10 

streaks  199.11 

stream  5.7   8.15   8.20   10.10 
11.20   12.16   13.31   17.20 
18.10   22.4   25.27   27.12 
28.4   28.8   28.20   29.13   29.24 
39.7   43.9   44.5   44.21   45.28 
52.10   61.25   62.4   81.17 
85.28   86.6   88.5   89.19   90.2 
90.26   91.17   103.9   105.19 
116.2   116.10   116.30   117.4 
117.15   117.22   118.24   119.14 
122.30   123.2   127.4   127.9 


stream  128.12   128.16   130.23 

153.30  154.8   168.8   169.8 

169.12  170.5  175.25  179.11 
190.5   202.26   203.19   203.26 

203.31  204.22   205.29   206.9 

207.25  212.28   213.23   213.26 
213.28   215.29   215.31   220.19 

221.13  221.17   222.11   223.16 

223.20  225.11  226.6  228.14 
232.5   235.18   244.30   244.33 

247.1  247.8   248.14   251.4 
252.18   252.23   253.4   254.7 

259.17  273.25   274.4   274.13 

274.21  274.30   307.16   309.17 

312.22  322.5   334.28   336.7 
338.16   343.22   345.1   356.4 

361.2  361.19  382.29  384.21 
385.9  391.17  391.18  401.12 
401.15   403.11   416.10   416.20 

streamed  254.15 
streamers  45.16   379.5 
streamlet  180.28 
streams  22.31   27.21   31.18 
44.3   75.6   85.21   105.20 

128.15  169.29  201.2  213.19 
314.30   334.21 

street  116.4   118.22   151.6 

156.24 
streets  63.23   77.18   128.23 

312.18  358.8   358.17   358.20 

359.16  405.19 

strength  107.9   110.22   138.9 
183.30   229.28   311.21   312.6 

362.26  370.24  371.26  403.1 
418.20 

stress  35.11   280.12 

stretch  167.14   310.12   376.24 

393.4 
stretched  45.12   79.30   110.22 

179.15   189.7   226.12   252.19 

257.15  407.2 
stretches  344.21 

stretching  88.6   190.30   210.11 

strew  358.11 

strewn  299.30 

strews  53.16   400.7 

strict  8.4 

strictly  161.23   389.26 

strictness  64.28 

stride  334.31 

strike  54.9   78.11   304.10 

striking  259.29   351.19   400.16 

strikingly  272.25 

string  24.19   56.31   57.5 

string-piece  312.16 

strings  280.25 

stringy  105.29 

strip  148.12 

striped  29.23   205.27 

stripped  344.18   358.1 

stripping  116.31 

strive  94.18 

striving  61.15 

stroke  109.1   236.23   351.10 

stroked  25.13 

strokes  109.2   227.31   230.3 

248.11 
strong  53.3   56.22   57.4   63.31 

206.16  381.31 

stronger  28.24   118.23   376.12 
strongly  13.7   287.7   414.2 
strong-winged  13.12 
struck  109.10   117.8   195.11 
208.11   318.1   343.2   419.23 


structure  13.10 

structures  252.19 

struggle  26.11   97.15   147.10 

struggled  202.27 

struggling  176.23 

strung  30.5   240.3   346.23 

stubble  303.15   320.4   402.16 

stucco  285.16   402.17 

stuck  60.22   211.11   375.14 

student  23.10   192.7 

students  197.5 

studied  106.26   176.8   239.29 

349.10   372.10   401.6 
studies  148.17   238.24   387.5 

389.21 
studious  337.5 
study  98.18   101.12   250.12 

349.2   387.8   416.29 
studying  100.14 
stuff  272.17   371.2   406.12 
stumbling-block  73.18 
stump  101.13   160.14   336.29 

344.18 
stumps  31.20   158.2   160.16 

193.31   343.19 
stumpy  3  34.2  3 
stung  52.27 

stupendous  202.14   390.14   407.2 
stupidly  283.8 
sturdy  6.17   124.17   397.14 
sturgeon  117.17 
Sturgeon  River  85.22   117.18 
stye  379.20 
style  94.14   106.27   106.28 

107.19  107.22   108.22   109.10 
109.13   388.30   392.10   401.7 
401.9 

styled  23.17 

styles  340.24   392.8   403.13 

Styx  34.24   122.30 

subdued  97.1   401.23   417.17 

subject  75.1   112.18   112.24 

127.20  182.7   197.15   222.6 
275.25   281.13   333.4 

subjected  113.16   143.4   379.18 
subjects  239.18   287.26 
sublime  74.19   140.27   149.26 

159.21  202.14   286.5   301.30 
303.24   390.11 

sublimely  393.28 

sublimer  309.31 

sublimity  39.11   148.9   154.2 

309.29   390.10 
submerged  44.16 
submit  164.6 

subordinate  388.15   414.18 
subordination  414.15 
subscribe  305.7 
subside  6.3   403.19 
subsided  17.16 
subsidence  94.21 
subsides  156.3   363.6 
subsiding  37.1   141.23 
subsist  324.15 

subsistence  23.1   55.30   129.31 
subsoiling  6.29 
substance  94.2   108.6   198.17 

282.27   375.21   403.1 
substances  376.14 
substantial  10.5   238.20   366.27 

412.23 
substitute  387.26 
substratum  142.6 
subterranean  24.4   78.9   133.4 


subterranean  (cont.) 


70 


surmounting 


subterranean  (cont.)  330.19 

subtile  157.7 

subtiler  42.3 

subtilest  71.12 

subtle  75.11   332.1   383.9 

subtler  104.8 

suburban  407.9 

suburbs  323.16 

succeeded  165.15   324.22   337.16 

406.11 
succeeding  94.30   168.15   396.24 
succeeds  284.22 
success  19.27   31.4   74.25   94.8 

99.19   133.14   195.19   195.20 

273.3   308.21 
successful  48.15   92.16   109.8 

272.27   388.2 
successfully  75.12 
succession  89.16   274.26 
successive  89.21   154.24   198.25 

261.2 
successively  155.1   254.27 
successor  390.4 
successors  279.8 
succulent  210.24   361.6 
succumb  362.11 
such   #166 
suck  101.22 
suckers  30.17 
sucking  30.21   105.26   119.20 

354.27 
suckled  346.28 
Sudbury  3.20   4.10   4.21   5.8 

5.12   5.15   36.28   53.17 
Sudbury  River  4.1 
sudden  8.8   25.19   39.26   126.25 

222.22   237.12   318.1   361.27 

413.3 
suddenly  28.4   107.8   150.16 

165.21   181.21   181.24   191.9 

208.7   213.30   220.1   254.26 

254.29   310.14 
suffer  284.10 

suffered  217.25   284.7   349.12 
suffering  25.14 
suffers  30.22   87.13 
suffice  59.31   222.15   328.25 

368.16  395.5 
suffices  311.22 
sufficeth  395.3 
sufficiency  40.11 
sufficient  8.1   13.26   119.1 

129.14   134.3   146.13   158.8 
220.29   235.13   283.2   346.23 

sufficiently  28.18   118.16 

sugar  33.29   33.29   33.31   33.31 
38.12   133.30   166.20   189.25 
195.27   213.14   214.30   325.8 
325.13   365.11   414.11 

sugar-cane  133.30 

sugar  maple  101.17 

suggest  337.7   339.17 

suggested  40.17   195.23   220.25 
269.5   308.29 

suggestions  389.4 

suggestive  61.26   195.26 

suggests  257.9   400.14 

suicide  297.4 

suit  66.7 

suitable  45.21   205.18   274.25 

307.17  417.23 
sullen  215.12 
sullenly  40.21 
sultry  219.7 


sum  208.4   389.12 

sumach  357.25 

summer  4.7   4.29   14.5   19.6 
21.18   24.15   24.22   24.27 
29.7   30.12   34.19   130.28 
151.3   157.9   160.23   164.28 
170.13   189.15   212.25   223.3 

223.5  223.15  230.25  239.21 
245.29  256.21  266.8  266.20 
277.27   291.4   302.12   303.16 

307.27  314.9  314.14  314.24 
319.11   319.17   323.26   346.7 

353.28  356.12   356.13   357.19 
373.31   391.14   391.27   403.16 

summers  32.20   250.9   277.26 

318.8 
summer's  6.18   21.25   40.1 

370.26   376.30   377.7   377.22 
summing  48.26 
summit  155.15   173.23   189.27 

191.22   191.22   192.15   192.24 

193.29  197.13   209.17   321.30 
335.3 

summits  158.31   200.7 

sums  413.19 

sun  6.20   12.4   18.18   18.27 

20.16  21.15   21.25   30.20 

38.17  40.27   42.4   48.22 
48.27   52.2   57.9   61.15   66.29 
77.26   78.23   86.31   91.29 
94.23   97.18   101.10   105.20 
113.16   116.13   118.7   122.7 

134.8  147.3   147.12   147.15 
150.26   157.1   158.6   159.29 

161.9  163.10   164.3   164.4 

164.20  164.27   170.9   180.1 

185.21  192.21  193.29  194.2 
198.31   199.21   199.27   202.24 

203.6  211.23   214.13   217.21 

218.18  219.14   219.17   221.7 
224.16   224.21   226.9   228.2 
244.34   245.29   252.20   252.24 

253.15  254.13   255.10   259.2 

260.22  266.25   278.2   300.24 
309.3   314.30   319.25   322.1 
324.3   325.2   336.30   339.30 

340.19  341.2   346.3   346.5 

347.28  359.8   359.8   359.9 

366.24  373.4   376.2   376.3 

376.16  377.22   390.18   393.26 

393.29  400.10   402.14   407.5 

411.17  416.14 
Suna-day  67.2 
sunbeams  97.16 
Suncook  87.8 

Sunday  42.6   77.24   118.7   254.3 

Sundays  80.25 

Sunderbunds  127.24 

sundered  59.8   372.27   387.15 

sundown  247.27 

sundust  377.24 

sun-fish  24.16   24.18 

sunflowers  245.16 

sung  14.19   44.21   44.29   56.14 

123.25  176.15   231.17   328.12 

386.18  391.23   396.1 

sunk  11.21   16.21   116.8   118.12 

127.19  253.28   274.19 

sunken  8.15   117.31   167.25   315.1 

381.1 
sunlight  19.8   22.11   69.20   97.8 

212.13   310.9 
sunlit  26.13 
sunny  5.28   22.20   25.3   26.29 


sunny  (cont.)  64.2   78.4   81.13 
122.26   127.17   226.12   255.1 

256.25  319.2   341.12 
sunrise  19.6   187.21   200.23 

249.17 
suns  333.18 
sun's  19.12   22.21   61.22 

183.1  199.5   202.27   229.7 
sunset  147.13   147.14   161.10 

179.8   303.5   307.13   319.31 

383.16   409.20   416.15   417.6 
sunsets  403.25 
sun-setting  417.13 
sunshine  93.22   95.1   201.5 

229.24   250.15   254.26 

318.22   320.13 
sunshiny  164.2 
superficial  36.12   323.23   347.13 

383.24 
superfluity  101.27   294.13 

339.10  360.20 
superfluous  69.6   206.9   224.20 
superfluously  312.14 
superhuman  61.17 

superior  136.12   155.20   158.9 

329.7  371.26   403.12 
superiority  348.14 
supernatural  132.26   386.28 
superseded  390.3 
superstition  77.10   293.13 
superstitious  68.18   366.31 
supped  119.8 

supper  180.6   180.10   194.21 
216.16   225.22   236.5   309.25 
354.7 

supple  360.22 

supplicating  304.30 

supplied  155.4   165.11 

supply  93.27   100.10   158.30 

178.8  236.7   298.24   383.1 
supporter  43.25 
supporting  250.9 

suppose  131.5   202.10   290.1 

296.8   347.8   408.15 
supposed  55.22   80.24   90.13 

90.17   215.2   248.18   271.27 
supposing  292.10   325.29 
supreme  66.15   159.23 
Supreme  Being  141.22 
supremer  159.23 
sure  65.7   68.14   73.2   102.10 

109.6   120.11   229.31   272.16 

278.3   287.12   360.22 
surely  34.16   108.28   135.2 

150.11  159.12   277.29   287.9 

303.5  303.7   303.11   319.31 

400.6  412.21   416.27 
surest  106.22 

surf  5.18   5.23   211.14   213.22 
327.2 

surface  4.17   17.27   18.4   19.9 
20.15   20.30   25.10   25.23 
28.29   31.12   42.6   43.31 
44.6   44.12   47.24   48.2 
48.31   152.29   160.18   160.29 
179.10   198.8   205.21   210.1 

315.2  323.14   353.8   353.11 

374.26  386.3   402.24   416.28 
418.19   420.11 

surliness  111.27 
surmise  383.26 
surmises  165.6 
surmount  193.9 
surmounting  261.1 


surpass 


71 


tell 


surpass  109.30   184.11 

surpasses  256.22 

surprised  211.3 

surrender  293.29 

surround  222.23 

surrounded  43.5 

110.24 

199.14 

256.16   308.14 

344.14 

381.13 

394.20 

surrounding  101. 

30   152. 

33 

surrounds  179.21 

400.15 

405.14 

survey  246.13 

surveyed  18.13   90.12 

surveyor's  388.8 

survive  149.14 

204.5   303.10 

363.17   368.1 

survives  360.10 

surviving  149.27 

239.7 

survivor  268.23 

suspected  185.15 

294.25 

356.5 

382.22 

suspended  231.17 

265.2 

265.30 

suspense  36.9   356.3   384.31 

suspicion  307.26 

328.23 

334.19 

suspicions  294.24   315.8 

sustain  364.25   392.4   414.1 

sustained  101.8 

142.14 

154.1 

218.6   318.2   401.7 

sustaining  223.22 

sustains  136.9   204.4 

swaddling-clothes  106.3 

swallow  7  5.20 

swallowed  29.20 

71.10 

336.20 

373.11 

swallowing  25.1 

29.19 

swallows  420.13 

swam  48.29   63.5 

swamp  168.13   314.12   319.17 

320.1 

swamps  4.18   339 

15 

sward  102.16 

swarm  360.14 

swath  37.21   168 

.28 

swathed  97.14 

swaths  223.17 

sway  116.28 

swaying  39.7 

Swedenborg  68.9 

412.26 

sweep  192.2   357 

.2   359. 

24   372.26 

sweeps  14.5   116 

.12   157 

.7   247.7 

248.11   254.1 

sweet  40.15   54.22   181. 

13 

217.29   361.14 

365.11 

sweetened  379.15 

sweetens  294.14 

sweeter  203.26   407.25 

sweetly  67.25 

sweetness  365.11 

sweets  400.1 

sweet-scented  52 

.18   52. 

22   379.14 

swell  110.31   198.8   314 

.18 

414.10 

swelled  213.3 

swelling  113.7 

swells  4.18   105 

.18 

swept  14.7   16.1 

49.1 

187.20 

244.30   253.22 

337.19 

355.7 

363.22   375.1 

swift  13.11   27.21   27.25 

90.27   345.1 
swifter  8.8   61.29   203.9 
swiftest  29.10 
swift-gliding  117.27 
swiftly  24.30   344.3   374.26 

375.17 


,3 
36. 


110.10 


408.22 


swift-rushing  28.3 

swim  21.29   26.28   27.30   48.17 

117.22 
swimming  5.24 
swims  361.2 
swine  79.17   379.17 
swinging  34.13 
Switzerland  396.12 
swollen  344 
sword  11.2 
sword-proof  334.11 
swords  85.8 
swordsman  236.24 
swore  174.12 
swung  49.29   340.4 
syllables  350.17 
sylvan  336.23 
symbol  198.17   287.31 

416.29 
symbolized  39.12 
symbols  61.15   326.12 
sympathies  148.17 
sympathize  113.8 
sympathized  308.19 
sympathizes  294.15 
sympathy  218.1   236.12 

250.10   262.31 

293.2   296.17 

387.4   395.28 
symphony  3  58.21 
Syracuse  81.29 
Syria  310.11 
system  11.18   97.24   100.10   264 

376.17   387.9   387.18   412.20 
systematic  387.31   388.16 
table  304.19   360.30 
table-land  155.18 
table-lands  141.6 
tables  195.8   238.9 
taboo  178.19 
tack  362.19   385.20 
tacked  49.8 
Tahatawan  82.10 
Tahitians  71.28  . 
tail  13.15   28.29   29.4   29.21 

31.17   117.25   206.3   206.11 
tails  31.15 
take  21.15   29.17   32.14   36.23 

110.29   116.3   132.14   165.24 

218.16   218.22   225.27   268.1 

272.19   273.20 
,7 


237.30 
291.12   291.13 
329.9   360.2 


274.15 
299.29 


290. 

300.22 

328.22 


225.27   268 
273.22   273.27 
292.1   292.8 
303.18   319 


7 
342.27 


322.11  328.22   342.25 

347.5  347.10  372.25  374.2 
376.26  381.9  386.21  391.3 
396.7   401.11 

taken  25.17   30.4   31.24   32.4 
35.15   77.21   78.1   91.2   91.4 
108.2   114.9   129.11   149.8 

151.12  174.4   174.18   192.7 
192.31   196.23   208.4   265.1 
268.26   285.29   309.24   318.15 
342.18   396.26   400.22   408.21 

takes  134.10   159.11   167.15 

193.6  265.4  277.31  283.30 
285.23   288.9   288.31   291.11 

351.20   397.23 

139.9   192.13 

309.17   324.30 
343.10   346.24 
161.21 


347.13 
taking  111.10 

192.28 

325.19 
tale  60.2   123.25 

212.22   398.10 
talent  301.25   351.18 


252.14 
342.29 


364.19 


talent  (cont.)  364.22 
talented  364.18 
talents  298.13   364.28 
tales  32.31   59.20   59.21 

59.30   167.27   380.20 
talk  6.19   55.11   70.14   72.18 

111.17   131.15   180.7   364.15 
talked  168.20   168.21   192.1 
talking  188.9   192.4 
tall  18.18   307.24 
taller  288.12 
tame  301.10   337.12 
tamed  179.16   217.11 
Tamerlane  396.12 
tames  337.14 
taming  56.1 
tangled  38.26   246.30 
tansies  377.27 
tansy  18.28 
tap  309.23 
taper  376.18 
tapering  198.26 
tapestry  199.13 
tapping  343.27 
tardy  237.7   275.23 
tarns  23.29 
tarry  228.25   260.10 
tart  384.7 
Tartar  160.5 
task  110.24   364.17 
tasked  110.18 
tasks  66.5 
Tasso's  67.25 
taste  72.9   182.3   291.31 

317.13  399.19   399.25   401.2 

402.1  402.15   408.11 
tasted  85.1   227.11 
tastes  33.9   365.6 
tattered  53.11 

taught  32.4 
82.15   144 

332.2  417 
taunt  274.16 
tavern  50.26 
tawny  179.15 
tax  135.8 
taxed  107.26 
teach  100.13 

395.6  409 
teacher  409. 
teaches  183. 
teaching  71. 
teal  6.13 
team  52.10 

208.14  38 
teaming  6.18 
teams  37.10 

teamster  204.21   417.16 
teamsters'  213.11 
tea-party  346.26 
tear  195.4 
tears  67.13   68 

301.2   329.17 
tedious  51.27 
teem  38.2 

teeth  30.5   331.19 
Teian  239.14 
telegraph  185.15 
telescope  388.10 
tell  4.25   35.30 

118.6   126.15 

161.21   163.6 

189.12   212.21 

250.16   259.14 


57.14 
3   280. 
30 


74.23 
1   285.2 


185.12 


100.20   263 

25 

.1 

409.16 

2 

6 

387.17 

9 

146.7 

64 

.20   109.29 

5. 

9   417.17 

2   101.16 
370.27 


402.7 


185 

.18 

253.13 

412 

.2 

412.6 

65. 

4 

71.24 

133. 

23 

134.5 

164. 

15 

173.17 

223 

.8 

224.8 

266 

.29 

289.21 

tell 


72 


thoughts 


tell  (cont.)  289.21   294.31 
343.9   380.20   397.13   406.5 

Tell  396.12 

telling  248.9 

tells  78.30   239.18   324.10 
397.5 

Tempe  54.27 

temper  212.15   301.25 

temperament  141.2 

temperate  86.12   158.21   158.28 
254.19   291.4 

temperately  248.3 

temperature  385.1 

temperatures  230.29 

Tempes  257.19 

temple  51.21   51.23   78.10   78.20 
79.27   264.30   267.6   280.2 
330.17   342.27   343.3   367.9 
403.7 

temples  77.15   264.5   303.14 

tempt  169.23 

temptation  408.31 

temptations  56.22 

tempted  117.16   246.12   398.19 

tempting  120.4   159.14   312.30 

ten  174.5   208.29   342.2   355.10 

tenacious  30.7 

tenacity  67.26   308.27 

tend  119.7   257.23   360.19 

tended  86.15 

tendency  294.12 

tender  28.24   36.5   101.13   288.5 

290.28  362.23 
tenderness  397.30 
tendon  110.19 
tenets  159.1 

tent  13.7   39.3   39.18   96.18 

118.29  119.3   121.4   173.28 
180.3   187.17   187.18   202.23 
248.15   249.7   309.15   314.22 
318.1   318.8   335.10   354.4 
354.23   416.12 

tentpole  354.10 

tent-pole  13.5   119.4 

tents  210.21 

tenure  253.3 

tepid  204.1 

term  178.3   303.10 

terms  286.7 

terraces  226.13   260.3 

terra  f irma  100.26   198.1 

terrestrial  198.8 

terrible  195.20 

terrier  40.7 

territories  115.18   151.1   204.6 

territory  8.24   123.17   413.25 

terror  370.19 

test  93.21   157.21 

testament  293.14 

Testament  of  Love  395.8 

testified  291.19 

testimony  178.7 

tests  197.15 

Texas  132.6 

text  72.11 

texts  142.4 

texture  123.7   195.4   368.26 

Thalesian  250.1 

than   #253 

thank  78.31   155.5 

thanks  295.1 

that   #8  54 

the   #7141 

theatre  349.1   349.9   405.29 


Thebes  128.25   346.15 
thee  35.23   35.23   35.26   35.30 
36.6   50.31   71.27   289.16 

289.17  289.21   303.16 
their   #526 

theirs  71.29   266.14   417.5 
Theists  159.4 
them   #233 

theme  195.12   300.18   397.12 
themes  142.29   148.29   389.20 
themselves  18.13   29.1   48.13 
52.19   97.28   98.5   100.29 

110.22  115.29   116.6   136.15 

141.23  143.4      151.19      161.24 
195.16      211.5      216.7      222.3 

228.19  229.9   237.28   259.29 

266.18  280.28   280.29   318.6 

326.20  333.15   376.19   388.1 

399.15  418.23   420.21 
then   #84 

thence  85.27   150.2   191.3   257.6 

thenceforth  33.17 

theogony  159.21 

theology  367.2 

theoretical  131.21 

theories  388.28   389.13 

theory  388.22 

Thera  258.15 

there  #415 

thereafter  34.7   173.16 

therefor  51.25 

therefore  93.30   108.29   146.31 

178.22   215.30   218.3 
therein  78.5   115.21   354.13 
thereto  315.26 
thermometer  388.9 
these   #95 
The  Weepers  230.23 
thews  110.14 
they   #53  5 
thick  101.27   177.9   208.23 

289.12  320.11 
thicker  29.28 
thickly  382.1 
thief  135.7 

thieves  135.1   308.19   308.22 
thin  22.23   26.22   127.21   156.24 

210.16  289.13   314.10   334.7 

339.13  353.31   366.26   383.20 

384.27  401.26   409.27 
thine  288.2  3 

thing  28.6   68.16   107.27   132.16 

147.5  198.20   210.15   272.26 
293.10   295.2   295.4   316.3 

332.28  402.26   411.21 

things  34.12   34.20   45.27   54.14 
58.5   67.25   70.22   70.26 
73.18   73.30   77.16   77.26 
84.3   108.18   128.10   128.14 
133.26   145.27   146.21   163.4 
176.22   184.12   185.24   185.26 

185.29  194.29   205.17   208.15 
230.15   266.18   272.14   295.5 

295.21  295.31   298.1   299.30 

310.30  312.1  "312.24   323.14 
325.18   330.22   332.29   335.10 
341.12   344.12   347.11   347.17 
351.3   353.1   354.11   354.16 
355.3   372.27   383.8   383.23 

388.6  407.20   413.6   413.7 
think  22.29   24.2   27.29   36.24 

58.10   66.10   67.24   69.14 
71.23   72.9   73.26   73.30   75.8 
88.28   94.28   101.24   130.27 


think  (cont.)  138.8   150.23 

155.13   162.20   176.21   181.27 

199.20  275.22   283.14   284.16 
286.1   286.3   287.1   287.15 

289.3  300.10   304.23   309.29 

311.30  396.9   411.21 
thinkers  106.2   148.27 
thinking  74.20   79.7   79.22 

99.21   149.11   150.15   162.25 

181.21  217.12   332.9   338.8 

343.20  420.6 

thinks  284.22   311.5   311.8 

408.23 
third  82.3   87.16   245.27 

268.23   329.5   331.6   361.10 

369.9 
thirdly  73.31 
thirst  11.11   204.3 
thirsty  194.3   413.13 
thirteen  89.5 
thirtieth  124.25   346.30 
thirty  24.23   43.30   174.5 

191.11  208.31   260.2   261.23 
336.3 

thirty-eighth  347.1 

thirty-first  341.22 

thirty-five  85.28   385.17 

this   #452 

thistle  404.26 

thither  78.8   106.15   359.12 

Thomas  Fuller  112.2 

thongs  109.16 

thorn  361.9 

Thornton  333.30 

Thornton's  Ferry  174.24   2  27.11 

232.2 
thorough  298.4 
thoroughly  331.28   349.29 
thoroughwort  2  7  2.6 
those   #93 
thou  36.19   36.22   36.24   36.25 

66.27   129.28   129.31   181.9 

289.17 
though   #133 
thought  22.25   31.18   32.8 

53.1      58.23      61.9      66.2      69.1 

72.20  77.7      90.19      99.5 

105.12  106.19   109.18   110.8 
116.26   130.22   133.21   136.11 

141.31  142.14   145.30   149.30 

159.13  168.12   181.6   182.7 
182.31   192.12   195.3   195.28 
213.26   215.13   220.23   224.5 

224.13  228.13   257.21   268.8 

281.4  281.9   288.15   289.31 

302.14  325.24   327.29   346.3 
350.25   350.26   364.9   365.18 

374.28  379.10   382.13   385.28 

389.21  392.13   393.24   398.30 
400.6   400.14   401.23   403.19 
417.22 

thoughtfully  415.17   417.15 
thoughtless  98.18 
thoughtlessly  117.3 
thoughts  16.1   17.19   22.17 
22.27   48.26   61.16   61.18 

61.21  68.12   74.24   81.23 
98.12   99.2   101.30   105.9 
108.25   112.28   130.11   138.15 
138.17   153.16   156.13   156.14 
164.23   182.29   191.26   195.24 
196.6   226.11   248.7   252.24 

252.29  254.21   263.17   275.2 
275.16   281.23   289.27   303.24 


thoughts  (cont.) 


73 


township 


thoughts 

(cont . ) 

305.3 

315.15 

318.29 

330.3 

334.4 

353.12 

354.21 

358.7 

358.14 

361.27 

362.7 

362.10 

363.28 

371.30 

374.1 

374.12 

374.16 

401.31 

405.25 

412.31 

thousand 

41.1   60.17   99 

.12 

104.15 

104.17 

149.27 

160.2 

160.29 

165.6 

166.31 

170.10 

181.1 

189.27 

221.20 

260.15 

263.14 

311.6 

311.8 

311.9 

312.11 

315.3 

319.29 

340.22 

340.2  3 

355.8 

355.8 

355.10 

373.15 

390.15 

79.29   271.27 


thousands  4.25   32.19   156.5 

223.22 
thrasher  2  51.25 
thread  30.5   79.26 

281.7 
threads  19.29 
threat  326.18 
threatened  12.8 
threatens  370.19 
threats  370.18 
three  12.19   21.24   30 

74.1   109.20   141.3 


177.5   178.6   188.10 


6   71.18 

148.5 
189.21 
225.18 
294.8 


189.27   221.22   223.17 

281.12   281.22   282.22 

301.5   342.21 
three-hundred  4.8 
threw  150.21   237.12 
thrift  332.9 
thrifty  361.14 
thrills  111.7   365.8 
thrives  291.3 
throes  99.22 
throttled  39.23 
through   #148 
throughout  355.6 
throw  122.21   274.24 
throwing  117.3   336.2 
thrown  28.30   287.12 

331.19   407.6 
throws  27.14 
thrushes  318.26 
thrust  160.17   250.23 

372.27 
thumb  420.6 
thumping  200.25 
thunder  191.17   392.23 
thunder-shower  254.24   260.22 
thus   #57 
thwarted  312.1 

thy  35.22   35.23   35.24   35.28 
36.19   36.21 
66.28   129.29 
.9   288.23   288.24 


322.8 

385.13 
312.7 


361.23 


35.31  36.9 
51.1  66.27 
129.31  147 
289.18 

tidal  105.13 

tide  14.16   35.27 

105.28  106.13 
123.12  128.13 
211.7   235.19 

tides  29.6   36.25 

tied  409.29 

tight  308.13 

tighter  64.30 

tiled  85.8 

till  5.2   14.17 
21.23   63.12 
84.22   102.7 

119.29  133.19 
167.29   194.6 


82.2 
113.9 
155.19 
312.7 


87.26 
118.24 
195.7 


45.2   229.9 


21.3 

21.19 

73.31 

79.15 

108.23 

119.13 

147.4 

151 

.19 

196.24 

202 

.24 

3   209.27 
254.15 
289.16 
349.1 
375.1 


244.33   252.16 


72 

30 

131 

.21 

163 

8 

226. 

11 

285 

18 

288 

.25 

329 

28 

345 

.28 

394 

18 

418 

.12 

till  (cont.)  209.2  209. 
215.14  222.14  253.17 
266.26  274.17  285.29 
304.22   312.12   314.10 

354.21  372.28   373.11 
377.30   411.18 

tillage  205.5 
timber  198.14 

304.11   336.9 
Timbuctoo  12  7.24 
time  #151 
times  7.34   66.22 

153.22  157.17 
258.16  275.15 
307.25   324.18 

389.22  393.22 
time's  266.2 
timeworn  5  3.11 
Timias  214.18 
timid  40.7   99.6 
tin  189.25   325.3 
tinctures  383.9 
tinge  18.1   357.10 
tinged  183.1 
tingles  182.27 
tinkering  324.19 
tinkled  38.3 
tinkling  39.31   180.31 
tinted  164.27 
tints  17.30   18.31 

57.4   69.21   104.11   1 

161.6   392.1 
tired  343.15 
tissue  237.11 
Titans  86.9   406.9 
tit-for-tat  341.2 
title  8.9   115.14 
titmice  5.28 
titmouse  266.9 
to   #2346 
toadstool  304.29 
toadstools  318.24 
Toahitu  66.8 
tobacco  130.15 
to-day  7.2   49.30   60.18   93.9 

124.21  128.25   134.2   234.3 
264.19   266.31   332.12   360.12 

toe  48.27 

together  22.16   28.31   50.22 
73.4   85.5   105.31   150.3 
167.10   208.11   250.22   267.33 
273.1   287.12   291.28   299.29 
300.6   318.27   325.18   333.12 

333.23  346.23   385.9 

toil  66.31   133.22   222.11   365.12 

407.14 
toiled  155.27 
toils  135.22 
toilsome  97.4 
told  60.20   91.11 

127.22  137.12 
185.26 
208.31 

231.10 
260.18 
380.27 
420.10 


376.29   395.25 


203.23 


27.29   57.2 
07.17 


373.21   382.26 


94.11 
152.21 
192.15 
209.18 
251.6 
263.11 
382.13 


174.8 

208.5 

221.11 

260.17 

342.18 

389.28 
tolerable  298.20 
tolerant  297.4 
tolerate  159.3   288.23 
tolerates  136.8 
toll  123.11   123.13 
tolls  225.14 
tomahawk  343.5 


99.13 
167.24 
207.17 
218.14 
257.31 
322.16 
382.21 


tomahawks  342.30 

tomb  269.7 

tombs  177.23   265.10   265.18 

to-morrow  195.14 

to-morrow's  266.13 

tone  77.5   110.4   155.21 
184.10   216.18 

tones  318.23 

tongs  207.18 

tongue  72.26   82.15   289.27 
367.29   394.31   399.3 

to-night  106.5   344.28   345.3 

too   #86 

took  6.24   21.3   22.7   38.14 
65.5   85.3   92.13   99.1 
122.1   127.5   168.14   192.25 
215.26   217.5   223.9   245.3 
253.18   337.23   343.4   379.26 

tool  136.11   207.26   301.11 

tools  228.2   263.3 

toothsome  206.4 

167.16 
194.13 
207.11 


189.10 
196.14   197.16 


244.31   308.3 


top  27.11 

192.22 

206.17 

336.2 
topic  112.20 
topics  142.26 
topography  71.21 
tops  23.11 

torpid  136.29   310.27 
torrent  10.13   215.1   260.7 

318.3 
torrents  261.26 
torrid  158.22 
tortoises  17.26 
toss  192.2 
tossed  5.29   205.25 
tottering  70.19 
touch  309.11   362.8   368.27 

405.3 
touched  168.1 
touches  263.4 
touchstones  315.18 
tough  27.5   74.27 

304.11   358.31 
toughen  368.25 
tougher  109.6   334. 
toughest  362.25 
toughness  166.19 
tour  238.29 
tow  273.21   274.16 
toward  30.22   54.12 

119.21   124.30   147.13   185.12 

196.21  202.5   202.8   281.10 
335.1   385.6   400.17   417.20 

towards  17.31   20.29   196.12 

254.22  391.29 
tower  197.16   197.25 
town  4.2   4.24   7 

24.9  31.31  33 
37.6  49.16  50 
52.21   53.11   6 

124.27 

208.6 

248.17 

268.25 
322.16 


174.13   211.24 


109.16 
381.31 


74.24 


348.5 


114.23 
174.24 
247.28 
268.18 
281.7 


town-meeting  282. 
towns  4.15   5.14 

113.21  114.22 
180.5   213.10 

333.22  391.21 
townsboys  349.30 
township  123.31 


.33 

8. 

5   10 

.1 

.7 

33. 

24 

.23 

51 

.30 

4.7 

93 

.1 

153 

.15 

169 

.11 

221. 

30 

221. 

31 

251 

.20 

263 

.12 

269 

.14 

271 

.11 

360. 

16 

17 

33. 

2 

37.14 

169 

.21 

179 

.25 

213. 

12 

251. 

LI 

126.14   180.10 


township  (cont.) 


74 


true 


271.19 
383.11 
3   209.21 


township  (cont.)  204.11 

townships  115.21   204.8 

townsmen  21.6   32.28 

tow-path  62.22 

toys  349.8 

trace  70.27   198.15 

328.25   335.26 
traced  85.28   90. 

334.27 
traces  102.12   177.24   207.23 

211.1   234.1   271.25   334.15 

344.20 
track  103.11   119.28   153.26 

383.17 
trackless  210.28 
tracks  194.6   205.13   250.8 

356.18 
tract  153.9   196.31   374.7 
tracts  82.14   209.20   271.20 
trade  32.27   33.26   90.22 

129.19 
traded  90.18   207.28 
trader  33.24   207.24 
traders  231.12   284.4 
trader's  292.2 
trades  57.9   278.10 
trade-winds  104.12   257.16 
tradition  56.17   71.8   85.2 

135.22  163.30   226.30   261.8 
266.20   278.13   307.31   310.19 

traditions  369.4 

traffic  207.14 

tragedians  360.5 

tragedies  236.16 

tragedy  118.5   136.13   236.30 

281.6   292.28   295.11 
tragic  31.21   394.1 
tragical  67.20 
tragi-comedy  118.6 
trail  124.18   174.23   210.27 

264.9   333.20 
trailed  127.3 
trails  176.13 
train  108.24   312.28   388.19 

401.23  412.31 
train-band  3  3.6 
trait  59.13 
traits  329.25 
tramped  188.6 
trampling  359.28 
tranquil  20.21   20.30 
transact  89.31 
transactions  261.14 
transcend  285. 3 
transcendent  397.19 
transfer  108.8 
transferred  119.2 
transfigured  282.13 
transient  94.19   145.30   301.6 

413.28 
transiently  407.12 
transit  122.27 
transiting  122.28 
transition  413.4 
transitory  122.31   149.29 
translate  231.30   303.6 
translated  59.31   60.4   148.5 

237.1   282.13   330.5   386.24 

420.3 
translation  142.16   168.3   330.7 

395.24 
translations  149.28 
translator  141.14 
transmitted  56.17   367.18 


transparency  127.14   341.9   376.7 
transparent  26.6   44.13   49.4 

245.22   301.17   331.5 
transpired  208.16   384.11 
transport  23.29   228.19 
transported  117.6 
transporting  173.18 
transversely  351.14 
trap  262.9   333.21 
trappings  362.15 
travel  106.14   123.12   127.18 

193.7   216.16   227.5   229.7 

230.18  231.20   239.8   249.10 
299.31   324.11   324.15   324.17 
325.5   325.5   325.23   326.11 
333.22   383.19 

traveled  158.2   212.26   256.31 

325.19  326.7   328.18   372.19 
traveler  11.11   49.9   107.23 

130.16   154.7   155.4 

204.16   215.10   216.21 

223.4   228.13   230.28 

231.8   239.2   249.13 

266.29   322.11   323.24 

326.16   383.4   400.3 


122.18 

177.17 

222.3 

231.4 

252.3 

325.29 

413.13 
travelers  11.3   63.9   122.15 

170.16   193.14   194.7   215, 

235.27   299.28   326.11 

347.18   363.29   411.19 
traveler's  189.18 
traveling  131.22   185.10 

202.5   226.20   228.21 

325.24   325.30   325.31 

326.7   326.14   416.25 
travels  332.7   373.2 
traversed  255.6 
traverses  249.14 
traversing  403.8 
tread  10.6   106.29 
treads  54.17 
treasure  363.15 
treasures  161.14 
treat  275.30   283.31 

287.2   300.21 
treated  142.27   275. 
treaties  129.3 
treatment  298.17 
treats  74.8   289.11 
trebled  254.16 
tree  44.1   45.1   54.11 

101.9   166.4   166.27 
192.28 
208.18 


327.10 


193.2 

324.23 

326.2 


239.31 


358.29 

284.13 


293.15 


175.28 
206.18 
228.18 

319.7 

341.6 

345.10 

380.6 

384.18 


92.13 
166.30 
206.17   206.18 
210.14   224.10 


229.30   264.22   319.1 
319.9   339.16   341.6 
341.13   342.14   344.19 

345.12   372.12   379.27 
380.11   380.22   381.24 
384.21   402.5 
Tree  of  Knowledge  387.2 
trees  8.18   11.24   17.28 
43.28   44.4   47.28 
49.29 
165.30 
198.16 
230.27 
.3 
.5 


48.10 

161.27 

193.27 

227.18 

246.26 

334.25 

341.1 

355.13 

382.1 
tree-tops  167.4 
trefoil  52.16 


420.23 

387.2 
31.20 
47.32 

116.16 
7   174.16 
207.13 
246.22 
276.3   309.26   318.26 
339.5   339.6   340.15 
346.2   353.5   354.4 
358.15   363.12   367.30 


3.25 
168. 
204.26 
238.11 


61.8 

292.1 

136.4 

232.9 

9   87 

29   169.19 

128 

15   274.3d 

trembled  37.14 
trembling  255.4 
tremulous  235.26 
trench  385.8 
trenchers  304.18 
trenches  341 . 5 
trended  362.2 
Trenmore  370.19 
trial  334.5 
triangular  39.4 
tribe  52.28 
tribes  56.10 
tributaries  8 
tributary  62. 

334.28 
tribute  10.29 

371.25 
trickled  216.3 
trickling  202.29 

320.4   354.30 
tridents  63.20 
tried  116.24   157.15 

218.28 
trifles  339.29   348.30 
trifling  135.24   282.25 
trill  317.6   319.1 
trim  13.16   44.8 
trip  77.7 

tripped  247.14   271.23 
trips  225.18 
Triton  258.17 
triumphs  168.25 
trivial  45.27   110.30 

156.1      198.2      275.26 

301.6   328.6   408.15 
trod  167.31   324.10 
trodden  250.6 
Trojans  95.20 
Trojan  war  346.17 
trolled  75.6 
troop  182.24 
trophies  124.15 
trophy  265.31 
tropics  362.21 
Trosachs  54.24 
trot  106.15 
trouble  134.10 
troubled  130.28 
trough  203.13 
troughs  101.18 
trousers  211.20   358.26 


15.18   86.16 


203.11   261.27 


196.20 


5.27 
98.3 


394.15 


346.31 


168.26   345.6 


357.8 


trout  31 

29   213.19   247.3 

257.8 

trout-fishers  326.26 

Troy  136 

3   411.20 

truce  54 

1 

true  19.4   27.9   28.8   55.23 

63.16 

69.11   72.9   77.2 

90.2   96.11   98.1   98.8 

101.4 

106.17   108.27   112.24 

116.30 

117.11   124.19   133.26 

135.25 

146.2   156.6   156.21 

159.9 

178.5   178.16   178.17 

183.29 

193.9   196.16   212.17 

212.18 

218.24   236.7   237.1 

239.9 

240.3   272.28   275.22 

281.26 

284.27   286.6   290.28 

292.29 

294.29   295.30   296.29 

299.15 

299.15   299.29   300.27 

326.7 

330.9   330.26   331.29 

347.9 

347.11   359.26   363.6 

363.22 

364.5   365.22   365.28 

373.22 

387.3   395.30   400.13 

400.17 

402.25   404.30   419.9 

truer 


75 


uninterrupted 


truer  77.30   178.3   284.17   291.1 

329.15 
truest  64.1   108.4   300.11 

307.22  316.4   331.17   418.10 
truly  58.14   71.31   73.15   81.4 

109.31   110.23   129.7   238.28 

284.10   305.7   363.15 
trumpet  183.24   240.5 
trumpet-weed  18.19 
trunk  380.8 
trunks  226.20   353.7 
trust  10.17   67.25   68.8   102.3 

183.7  296.18   297.6   397.2 

399.2  412.18 

trusted  20.11   188.15   218.15 

trustful  398.27 

trusting  409.26 

trustworthy  301.17 

truth  58.22   58.22   59.11   59.27 
60.14   71.30   73.14   94.13 
102.10   109.6   111.13   111.23 

115.19  133.29   142.9   149.19 
156.31   159.21   178.4   182.5 
185.29   207.19   208.16   231.1 

231.28  283.30   284.3   284.4 

284.29  291.2   299.26   310.7 

328.23  328.27   329.31   331.27 
363.25   383.8   386.5   386.11 

386.20  386.30   390.1   395.6 
412.13 

truthful  348.4 

truthfulness  284.30   331.4 

truths  61.12   61.13   99.31   100.22 

156.4 
truth's  419.8 
try  131.19   162.19   332.12 

332.25   339.20 
trying  49.6 
tuber  129.31 
tumbled  62.5 
tumuli  86.8 
tumult  5.31 
tumultuously  359.6 
turbid  28.2  5 
turf  170.11 
turf-clad  347.27 
turn  31.28   33.9   81.4   110.2 

222.22   296.8   362.3   376.1 
turned  20.29   36.1   58.10   153.11 

161.8  161.30   164.20   176.27 
213.31   228.7   239.16   265.12 
340.1   349.2   357.27   362.1 
384.19 

turning  18.17   20.5   48.12   219.20 

248.3  282.5   356.15   377.29 
383.6 

turning-point  356.11 

turns  328.27 

turpentine  174.2   174.7   174.11 

174.19 
Tuscan  301.30 
twanging  78.18 

Twelfth  Church  of  Christ  9.2 
twelve  119.17   163.19   208.29 

319.24  390.15 

twenty  20.13   24.23   43.30   88.23 
89.1   185.11   191.11   204.18 

206.21  210.26   251.6   261.23 
330.3   342.17 

twenty-five  88.31   204.18   225.20 

twenty-fourth  346.30 

twenty-one  380.1 

twice  20.20   43.8   94.28   197.1 

twig  27.11   47.24   48.12 


twigs  39.25   128.10   166.20 
309.21   320.8   328.9 

twilight  5.3   27.31   39.5   118.9 
118.16   176.12   194.15   246.26 
250.3   254.20   309.18   343.13 
346.9 

twinkling  312.27 

twirling  205.29 

two   #71 

two  hundred  221.12 

two  thousand  8.23 

Tyne  22.17   22.31 

Tyng  114.19 

Tyng's  114.4 

Tyngsborough  113.23   114.21 

118.30   123.15   126.25   152.16 
170.1   174.8   325.26   377.9 

379.24  382.14   384.5 
type  412.21 

types  383.7 

tyranny  146.12   155.6 

tyro  181.4 

Tyrrhenian  58.19 

ugliest  77.12 

umbilical  79.25 

umbrella  324.30   324.30   325.1 

unabated  18.2 

unable  222.4   364.8 

unaccountable  374.15   413.4 

unadorned  304.21 

unaffected  68.1 

unalarmed  233.29 

unamiable  129.12 

unanimity  59.7 

unapproachable  65.11 

Unappropriated  Land  334.26 

unattempted  121.6 

unattended  45.28 

unbaptized  394.8 

unbarring  131.15 

unbend  14.6 

unbent  358.26 

unborn  61.19 

unbounded  138.13 

unbribable  309.1 

unburied  58.30   67.2  3 

Uncannunuc  169.14   205.19   271.21 

Uncannunuc  Mountains  271.8 

308.25  318.12   321.27   335.22 
unceremoniously  212.11 
uncertain  34.12   35.27   44.18 

249.24   286.1   342.9 
unchangeable  394.11 
unchangeableness  117.11   141.1 

374.18 
unchanged  49.3   128.17 
unchronicled  264.7 
uncivil  116.1   211.26   212.4 

212.7   214.10   218.7 
uncommitted  394.8 
uncommon  414.16 

unconcerned  146.30   146.31   347.30 
unconcernedly  191.30 
unconscious  61.18   80.29   275.12 
unconsciously  283.27 
unconsciousness  348.26   351.6 
unconstrained  58.5   100.29 
uncontaminated  203.21 
uncountable  32.31 
uncover  162.12 
uncovering  220.2 
uncultivated  115.30 
uncut  37.20   89.13 
undefined  258.6 


under   #79 

under-current  418.21 

undergone  154.23 

underground  401.15 

undergrowth  193.26 

undermined  259.13 

underneath  49.8 

understand  56.20   94.27   157.23 

217.21  295.14   339.19   364.1 
understanding  58.15   58.24 

71.5   71.6   149.4   265.20 

300.13   303.18   398.10 
understood  159.29   176.8   210.5 

261.12   289.1   295.12 
undertake  69.16   300.21   327.10 
undertaken  131.15 
undertakings  340.17 
underwood  107.2 
undescribed  26.18   31.31 
undeserved  141.10 
undigested  236.1 
undiluted  353.3 
undiscovered  412.29 
undissolvable  104.16 
undisturbed  24.13   292.4   307. 2£ 

385.30 
undivided  350.27 
undividedly  350.28 
undoubtedly  75.18   136.25 

181.27   323.20 
undressed  211.26 
undried  223.20 
undrilled  33.12 
undulated  416.20 
undulating  198.7 
undulation  338.29 
undulatory  29.24   34.12 
undusted  135.26 
undying  251.27 
uneasy  5.18   45.12   176.13 

189.22  190.14 
unenlivened  393.7 
unequal  263.24 

unerring  206.22   301.3   312.9 
unexaggerated  238.28 
unexpected  27.19   202.9   372.18 

381.6 
unexpectedly  22.13 
unexpensively  155.29 
unexplored  56.27   312.30   331.2 

350.9   383.15 
unfamiliar  362.9 
unfathomable  47.27 
unfavorable  356.4 
unfitted  89.9 
unfolding  19.11 
unforetold  141.26 
unfortunately  33.11   224.2 

354.11 
unfrequented  103.2 
unfrequently  419.23 
unhewn  402.2  3 
uniform  34.1 
unimaginable  356.14 
unimagined  198.15 
unimpeded  350.27 
unimpededly  350.29 
unimportant  70.21   281.31 
unimproved  8.25   232.4 
unincumbered  367.20 
uninhabited  40.10   169.10 

205.7   416.22 
uninquisitive  213.14 
uninterrupted  170.3   279.12 


uninterrupted    (cont. 


76 


Veeshnoo  Sarma 


59.25 

61.13 

131.1 

152.18 

184. 

3   272.26 

418. 

27 

y  346 

.26 

1   272.27 

71.14 
31   181.27 
29   275.26 
6   330.24 
.3   387.19 


363.4 


129.18   195.9 


90.25   221.27 


uninterrupted  (cont.)  344.22 

376.17  412.31 
uninvited  182.7 
unison  183.27 
unit  413.20 
unities  118.4 
uniting  322.19 
universal  59.  3 

67.22   73.10 

156.10   163.5 

310.3   369.32 
Universal  History  346 
universality  149.1 
universally  23.8   98. 

331.20   414.20 
universe  48.28   70.16 

140.29   155.7   166. 

182.8   183.22   183. 

281.7      285.9      330.1 

348.18  353.14   373 
412.24   413.16 

unjust  220.5   295.18 
unkempt  211.26 
unkind  135.27 
unknown  86.7   294.21 

388.1  416.17 
unlearned  231.4 
unless  33.22 

222.14  304.27 
unlicensed  33.13 
unlike  25.27 
unloads  225.30 
unlock  85.20 
unlucky  29.18 
unmeaningly  155.30 
unmolested  89.27 
unmusical  327.27 
unnamed  86.14   141.9 
unnatural  37.15   178.3 
unnecessary  155.27 
unnoticed  52.27   275.18 
unobserved  10.1   317.12   373.16 
unobstructed  93.22   202.10 
unobtrusive  418.6 
unpleasant  192.30 

unpopular  73.16 
unpracticed  109.11 
unprecedented  37.13 
unprejudiced  181.14 
unpretending  230.27 
unprofaned  330.20 
unquestionable  27.12 

124.15  265.3 
unquestionably  108.20 
unquestioned  64.21   2 
unraked  414.4 
unraveled  376.23 
unreal  133.27   176.29 
unregarded  153.30 
unrelated  45.26 
unrelaxed  155.21 
unreserved  296.30   31 
unresting  119.26 
unrolls  372.11 
unseen  122.23   312.28 
unsettled  115.30   176 
unshaven  257.7 
unsheathed  63.26 
unskillful  404.18 
unskillfully  341.29 
unspeakably  315.10 
unspotted  359.18 
unsubstantial  70.22 
unsuccessful  27.21 


26.26 

32 

.6 

55.6 

86. 

30 

97.3 

116 

.19 

152. 

26 

188. 

10 

247 

.1 

249. 

24 

274 

.27 

334 

.28 

99.5   192.13 


246.10 


unsung  393.30 
unsuspected  203.28 
unsuspicious  134.25 
unswept  135.26 
unsympathizing  116.17 
untarnished  376.8 
untasted  86.16 
until  3.3   6.3 

35.29      35.29 

87.26      89.17 

120.8  141.25 
193.26   213.23 

252.24  262.11 
341.6   361.21 

unto  74.13   74.14 
untold  420.10 
untrained  33.7 
untranslatable  86.13 
unusual  14.2   20.18 

356.9  360.20   400.21 
unusually  78.16   349.7 
unwavering  315.30 
unwearied  119.26   140.28 

266.25  387.30 
Unweariedly  223.21 
unwilling  68.18 
unwise  35.9 
unwisely  196.30 
unwonted  103.11 
unworn  155.22 
unworthiness  199.20   294.20 

315.19   315.23 
unworthy  2  35.20 
unwritten  419.24 
unyielding  324.10 
up   #185 
uphold  132.19 
upland  5.6 
uplandish  213.12 
upon   #61 

upper  127.23   197.3   261.10 
upright  26.1   177.25   367.9 
uprightness  179.26 
upset  174.10   188.8 
upsetting  261.4 
upstream  2.52.28   309.11 
up-stream  8.7   225.24   372.10 
upward  29.5   29.5   111.12   148.14 

150.30   193.25   228.7   235.16 


374.15 

337.21   353.8 
urchin's  24.19 

360.19 

376.22 

33.22 

urgency  208.15 
urgent  108.3 

142.24 

us   #277 

21.1   253.19 

usage  304.12 

use  38.12   72.26 

93.6 

93.9 

108.11   147.8 

166.10 

213.17 

367.11 

221.13   236.8 

252.13 

261.13 

272.3   281.29 

298.9 

298.13 

298.18   298.21 

301.6 

304.28 

304.31   310.5 

337.8 

348.8 

7.11 

376.18   387.24 

402.26 

415.20 

used  27.27   32.5 

140.12 

166.13 

166.16   192.20 

268.6 

271.27 

382.27 

.26   324.1 

useful  195.1   265.24   301.9 

304.3   304.28 

389.24 

usefulness  49.18 

uses  61.18   166.18   185. 

25   210.31 

223.27   229.28 

305.4 

387.28 

399.6   408.15 

408.17 

ushering  40.27   ; 

J19.2 

366.26 

using  206.28   221.17   345.25 

usual  13.8   37.10   187.22   188.12 

usual  (cont.)  188.14   193.3 

207.30      211.12      213.8      215.? 

219.11   354.23   354.29 
usually  292.29   358.9 
utensils  13.2 
utmost  25.23   167.8   283.1 

301.8   331.4   332.9 
utter  132.23   289.31 
utterance  418.21 
utterances  329.26 
uttered  155.15   285.13   295.2 

300.13 
uttering  141.21 
utterly  356.11 
uttermost  150.13 
utters  365.13 
vacation  123 . 7 
vagabond  360.22 
vague  409.17 
vaguely  75.9   149.18 
vain  26.22   59.26 

102.6   102.9   148.28 

212.3   238.22   275.11 

391.6   395.27   420.1 
vainly  274.22 
vale  190.15   214.14 
vales  198.12   202.2 
valises  123.4 
valley  90.11   169.26   170.4 

170.11   173.19   189.21 

189.30   190.6   191.17   191.24 

192.14   192.23   197.7   213.25 
222.20   271.16   321.29 
346.5   372.24 
393.4   416.20 

85.19   85.20 
210.29 
417.27 
129.16   264.28 


89.17   94.18 
162.12 
295.21 


416.22 


377.27 


214.8 


214.1 

322.2 

384.16 
valleys  10.5 

173.14   190.23 

264.17   406.29 
valor  124.16 

291.11   314.15 
valuable  231.24   347.22 
valuation  8.22 
value  93.11   136.6   284.3 

287.13   296.24   297.5   373.22 

386.19   389.3 
valued  88.21   166.26 
valve  206.8 
van  106.5   226.19 
vandals  302.2   305.10 
vanish  42.16   193.21 
vapor  90.3   189.7   277.28 
vaporous  127.21   198.12 
vapors  176.25 
varied  198.8   400.4 
varies  88.23   409.13 
varieties  308.29   361.16   381.30 
variety  28.18   61.12   130.1 

141.8  252.26   372.14   381.14 
various  21.8   31.4   43.1   43.19 

67.3   74.27   161.6   166.18 

167.9  190.22   210.9   262.14 
281.1   374.28   392.8 

varnish  401.26   402.27 

Varro  382.7 

vary  164.17 

varying  221.28   372.12   385.1 

vase  43.21   409.29 

vast  81.13   95.10   141.7 

149.23   194.29   420.9 
vaster  350.25 
vastness  119.23   336.10 
Vedas  160.7   183.3 
veer  362.19 
Veeshnoo  Sarma  128.28   153.18 


Veeshnoo  Sarma  (cont.) 


77 


wanders 


Veeshnoo  Sarma  (cont.)  153.19 
vegetable  11.14   237.31 
vegetables  361.7 
vegetation  210.16   277.31 
veil  162.14   255.1   405.9 
veiled  198.9   198.22   405.4 
vein  183.19   328.31   393.25 

397.24 
veins  94.15   357.29   361.25 

364.12  404.5 
velocity  119.29 

venerable  57.7   160.10   250.5 

266.19 
venerableness  163.2 
vengeance  370.18 
venison  237.11 
venture  141.6   151.18   290.14 

335.17   414.2 
ventured  217.19   253.10 
Venus  65.18   411.28 
verbena  305.2 

verdant  7.33   195.17   304.8 
verdure  43.6   101.18   404.25 
verdurous  107.14 
verge  282.11   407.21 
verging  17.31 
verified  412.7 
verily  263.26 
veritably  7.4 
vermin  405.18 
Vermont  198.3 
vernal  4.13 
Verona  351.22 
verse  104.10   148.29   328.3 

328.13  350.21   365.13   365.16 
392.21   392.30   393.2   393.26 
394.1   398.8   402.16   407.15 

verses  400.17 

versus  21.22 

very   #101 

vesper  21.23 

vespers  118.17 

vespertinal  30.2   118.20 

vessel  191.4   222.5   223.21 

253.12   253.22   255.8   274.8 
vessels  89.1   89.31   90.1   203.21 

223.30   254.5   254.19   254.28 

255.1   264.14   287.29 
vestige  70.26   197.26   328.23 
vestiges  164.24   264.4   264.13 

277.30   417.18 
vex  163.25 
vibrate  354.24 
vibrates  401.4 
vibrating  185.16   185.23 
vice  236.23   299.10 
vices  65.20   331.24 
vicinity  33.19   43.14   87.14 

407.27 
vicious  34.21 
victim  28.24 
victor  103.3 
victory  123.31 
view  100.13   100.14   100.21 

169.14  170.2   194.1   202.8 

207.15  271.16   299.29   321.28 

321.30  335.27   347.13   383.6 
387.19   397.23   413.6 

viewed  372.15   372.17 

viewing  194.3 

vigor  55.4   107.4   109.13   179.28 

367.31  388.26   395.22   408.12 
vigorous  12.14   101.17   151.4 

174.26   205.24   211.22   247.7 


vigorous  (cont.)  366.28   394.30 

villa  301.30 

village  13.30  17.16  19.20 
19.31  20.2  22.29  30.29 
49.12  52.9  53.24  77.11 
77.18   85.13   92.7   167.21 

169.17  175.29   179.6   189.21 

189.26  204.23   223.1   227.10 
227.14   251.3   260.11   260.14 
322.6   357.7   358.8   372.21 
405.16 

villagers  261 .  3 
villagers'  82.2 
villages  81.27   179.20   213.15 

358.29 
villas  373.10 
vine  94.7   101.19.  256.19   335.18 

404.27  405.2 
vinegar  304.7 

vines  44.12   246.4   266.17   319.23 
violence  147.8   190.1   249.12 

290.22  338.16 
violent  187.14 
violet  304.30 
violets  409.28 

Virgil  122.29   327.23   396.25 

Virgil's  93.9 

virgin  52.15   265.25   265.26 

375.28 
Virgin  59.15 

Virginia  90.18   205.28   399.17 
Virginian  18.24 
Virgin  Mary  346.29 
virtue  36.14   101.9   137.2 

138.12   146.20   147.9   199.25 

236.23  294.9   315.30   331.4 
375.23   394.11   414.14 

virtues  55.8   136.10   283.29 

293.1  298.23   299.18   299.22 
331.24 

vir.tuosi  347.26 
virtuous  330.16 
visage  199.27 
Vishnu  Purana  302.7 
visible  14.15   20.30   24.20 

29.21       37.12      44.1      45.3      81.11 

160.28  168.7      173.16      201.1 
206.3      208.27      238.4      250.8 
271.8      271.19      326.29      380.7 
405.16      412.21      417.21      418.15 

visibly   63.13 

vision    38.16      47.32      54.7      145.31 

146.2  160.31       198.19       239.11 
336.11      363.26      374.14      383.13 
393-. 2      411.17      412.17 

visions    32.30      48.1      278.5      310.1 

318.24 
visit    151.13      197.13      287.18 

289.18  296.13      374.3 
visited    119.30      260.1      268.16 
visiting    28.13      127.8 
visitor    355.7 

visits    103.11      289.16      364.9 

vista    190.30      252.27 

vital    94.20      133.9      304.10 

vitiates    71.9      294.21 

vivacious    23.25 

vivacity    327.24 

voice    40.12      129.27      157.27 

219.2      219.27      220.14      221.7 

257.10      328.11      417.18 
voices    214.31      215.21      406.22 
volume    10.3      94.2      238.15      261.27 

419.29 


volumes  60.27   314.10 

voracious  29.15 

vote  59.12   282.16   295.1 

votes  383.29 

vouch  207.19 

vouchsafed  411.26 

voyage  5.7  12.8  19.3  19.28 
53.27  62.21  81.17  105.17 
119.12   122.31   180.11   187.21 

188.12  191.5   200.30   209.20 
212.23   225.7   252.5   255.9 

260.14  318.14   322.18   335.24 

343.13  356.4   418.1 
voyaged  6.7 

voyager  61.27   379.11 

voyagers  85.12 

voyages  254.8 

voyageur  20.9   128.3   165.20 

203.20  230.7   238.7   307.29 
voyageurs  19.27   180.7   206.3 

247.16 
voyaging  376.22 
vulgar  56.6   58.2 
Wachusett  173.25 
Wachusett  Mountain  169.20 
wading  6.11 
waft  23.23   379.11 
wafted  38.1   48.11   118.25 

119.26   182.25   247.18   273.29 

407.22   407.26 
wage  324.5 
wages  34.27   324.21 
waging  82.6 
wagon  282.18 
wagons  213.11 
wailing  51.1 
waistcoat  358.26 
wait  133.10   133.19   256.9 

273.21  280.25   289.16   312.17 

328.2  359.9   403.18   409.25 
waited  211.17 

waiteth  133.11 

waiting  36.30   37.1   87.25 

122.13   236.11   252.12   356.17 
wake  20.30   338.19 
waked  188.6 

wakeful  40.7   40.26   355.2 
wakes  60.2 
waking  165.20   229.32   315.9 

315.15  315.25   315.26 
walk  70.20   101.24   160.26 

209.31   211.8   211.9   311.17 
311.19 
walked  116.25   128.22   211.6 

213.13  312.15   406.14 
walking  77.17   191.6   192.8 

221.14  239.7   300.6   312.15 

327.3  376.24 

walks  54.18   222.16   279.11 

414.3   415.21 
wall  161.11   162.25   170.11 

173.14   215.16   254.28 
walls  106.14   115.31   179.17 

190.18      264.30      266.3      351.9 

403.10   407.9 
Walter  Raleigh  106.25 
Walton  22.4 
waltz  104.12 

Wamesit  82.16   85.9   233.1 
wander  281.7   353.14   399.28 
wandering  35.24   318.25   334.21 
Wandering  Jew  122.24 
wanderings  70.25 
wanders  167.1 


waning 


78 


west 


waning  247. 5 

Wannalancet  268.13   269.11 

want  6.31   45.21   62.30   100.10 

132.9   132.10   135.9   161.15 

248.14   298.22   299.17   300.4 

334.16   367.26   370.15 
wanted  132.16   149.1   388.3 
wanting  51.24   151.23   198.17 

310.29   388.21   388.24 
wants  55.4   158.30   159.16 

298.4   310.25 
war  14.17   16.3   40.23   54.1 

82.6   106.13   136.16   261.8 

265.2  267.25   268.14   268.16 
268.29   269.1   324.5   334.4 
371.11 

warble  266.10 

ward  78.5 

wares  99.12   254.1 

warfare  177.8 

wariest  29.10 

warm  5.25   12.7   66.29   238.2 

314.11   344.5   386.12 
warmed  310.26 
warmth  35.17   205.22   280.14 

320.3  391.13 
warn  117 . 31 

warned  33.9   33.15   126.17 

warning  25.20   52.27   206.15 
308.13   333.2 

warp  123.6 

war-path  346.6 

warrant  87.1   107.12   122.15 
135.19   288.11 

Warren  Hastings  142.15 

warrior  10.6   232.31   291.10 
291.23   370.20 

warriors  84.29   343.22   369.23 
392.16 

wars  168.15   268.23   380.27 

war-whoop  124.13 

wary  55.12 

was   #546 

wash  105.23   119.21   122.3   267.3 

washed  188.9   216.7   227.28 
237.13   262.5 

washes  261.30 

washing  259.19   304.26 

Washington  66.21 

wasps  228.30 

waste  31.19   89.28   194.3   413.25 

wasted  247.6   266.26 

wasting  88.26 

watch  77.7  87.21  95.21  135.17 
214.29  247.16  253.12  253.20 
336.4 

watchdog  215.22 

watched  338.21 

watching  11.16   108.24   335.25 
357.9   384.25 

water  3.9   4.12   4.23   4.31   6.5 
13.18   17.27   18.4   18.7   18.14 
19.1   19.4   19.5   19.9   21.25 
23.14   23.18   25.7   25.12   25.18 
26.1   26.21   26.29   27.1   27.3 
27.8   27.30   28.3   28.31   29.4 
29.16   30.1   31.12   35.18   35.29 
37.10   37.25   38.3   38.13   38.15 
39.1   39.9   39.21   42.6   43.5 
43.16   43.31   44.2   44.13   44.15 
44.18   44.19   47.24   47.27 
48.12   61.27   62.28   63.1   63.4 
81.18   81.27   82.3   86.17   86.17 
87.4   89.28   90.30   92.12   93.20 


water  (cont.)  104.10   116.8 

116.14   116.25   118.8   118.10 
118.13   119.26   122.3   133.4 

137.5  150.21   150.27   151.10 

158.6  166.4   179.10   187.18 

194.4  194.6   194.9   194.16 

200.17  203.11   203.14   203.16 
205.22   209.30   209.30   210.4 
211.3   215.25   215.29   223.18 
225.10   232.4   245.17   245.22 

247.18  250.2   250.22   250.26 
250.29   253.8   256.15   260.1 

260.5  260.16   260.18   261.5 
261.25   262.18   262.27   263.4 
308.9   309.14   309.23   309.27 

325.27  336.3   339.30   339.30 
340.8   354.31   357.4   357.25 
372.13   372.17   380.30   383.31 
385.12   386.1   414.9 

water-birds  23.28 

water-casks  154.8 

watercourse  198.15 

waterfall  202.17   356.7 

waterfalls  318.24 

water-fowl  13.26 

watering  404.31 

water-lilies  21.27 

water-lily  19.1 

watermelon  335.12   354.8 

watermelons  381.23 

water-pail  354.30 

water-rats  38.4 

waters  6.3   23.23   24.9   31.23 

32.2  37.2   51.6   62.28   81.22 
86.10   90.26   97.2   118.2 

133.16  150.16   151.15   156.30 

170.7  227.11   340.17 
water's  153.14   166.1   205.2 

247.15 
water-side  53.26 
water-tight  6.11 
water-willow  43.26 
watery  11.20   26.14   36.21   106.7 

118.17  118.18   261.2   385.7 
414.6 

wave  13.31   105.13   267.3 

waver  361.13 

wavering  199.25 

waves  5.15   5.29   16.2   43.7 

97.3  113.17   118.8   118.12 

122.7  224.22   255.11   278.11 

310.8  313.2   383.27   419.30 
waving  5.17   24.22   25.25   37.19 

37.28   260.24   333.28   339.2 

384.21 
Wawatam  291.19   291.31   292.8 
way   #79 
waylaid  115.28 
Wayland  3.20   4.11   4.24   5.12 

5.14   36.28   37.7 
ways  272.18   281.1   299.24 

302.7   362.12 
wayside  123.9   189.15   219.18 

220.1   358.18 
waysides  18.26 
we   #1017 
weak  110.1   110.11   118.16   138.7 

413.18 
weakened  115.8 
weaker  27.1   195.4 
weakness  229.27   370.25   398.1 
weal  101.16 
wealth  37.5   146.1   207.31   280.30 

310.28  339.12   339.24 


weapons  63.24   368.6 
wear  61.14   195.14   260.5 

262.11  262.12   286.26 
301.13   326.4   361.11 

weariness  326.22 

wearing  225.13   326.3 

wearisome  51.23   73.6   346.21 

wears  104.11   155.22   289.14 
374.4 

weary  216.8   238.7   354.8 
413.18 

weasels  119.19 

weather  34.19   78.4   95.2 

202.3   220.30   222.7   223.20 
225.19   226.30   301.4   304.6 
310.10   318.28   322.1   342.10 
346.8   356.5   390.17   391.14 

393.12  409.22 
weather-bleached  211.22 
weathers  135.20 
weather-stained  53.12 
weave  402.16 

weaver  85.15 
web  280.8 
Webster  85.6 
wedded  44.2 
wedge  372.28 

weeds  11.19   11.23   24.25 
25.2   25.29   28.4   90.28 

118.19  223.16 
weedy  29.13 

week  48.26   64.6   68.3   122.10 
191.28   225.18   304.26   335.8 

weeks  314.9 

week's  12.17   220.19 

weep  295.29   370.24 

weeping  370.28 

weeping  willow  44.3 

weighed  12.2   19.30   22.27 
141.12   165.27 

weight  94.21   200.27   209.16 
328.24   380.29   381.29 

weights  386.15 

weirs  32.4   84.29   91.21 

welcome  78.29   297.5   305.6 
336.27   337.9   418.29 

welcomed  218.4 

well   #102 

well-beaten  194.4 

well-being  220.26 

well-bred  348.31   349.29 

well-disposed  308.10 

well-endowed  197.9 

well-known  169.22   261.21 

wellnigh  66.24 

wells  127.19 

well-thumbed  230.13 

well-worn  206.22 

wend  91.30 

wending  416.26 

went  22.16   33.12   33.16   51.22 
79.27   117.7   151.21   174.21 
174.27   192.8   192.10   192.18 

192.20  194.2   197.12   197.13 

208.21  215.5   215.10   215.19 

215.27  220.2   220.15   233.29 
235.19   245.12   252.18   255.11 

271.22  309.16   309.18   353.28 

354.28  357.18   381.1 
wept  317.4 

were   #368 
wert  36.22 

west  4.4   21.24   38.8   59.22 
59.23   133.13   137.13   137.18 


west  (cont. 


79 


Winthrop 


west  (cont.)  147.6   157.13 

158.15  161.9   167.20   169.16 
170.9   204.7   205.20   212.27 
232.1   248.17   318.13   323.30 
341.11   353.25   373.2   402.14 

405.1  413.25 
Westborough  Swamp  32.24 
western  107.1   141.25   143.1 

146.18   149.20   165.29   173.15 
309.26   319.28   322.9   323.20 
381.13   409.18 

Western  world  150.1 

Westford  113.21 

West  Saxons  53.19 

westward  66.23   147.5   169.27 

173.24  271.9   279.7 

wet  5.25   122.18   154.7   249.21 
308.23   318.23   318.30   356.19 

wettest  318.28 

wharf  197.21   223.5 

wharves  253.20   254.5 

what   #222 

whatever  27.17   78.26   133.27 
324.7   331.3 

what's  193.16 

wheat  100.5   100.28   131.18 

wheat-fields  85.8 

wheedle  362.4 

wheedled  409.22 

wheelbarrows  223.23 

wheeled  49.6 

wheeling  5.24 

wheels  13.2   37.3   206.28   252.13 
333.21 

when   #284 

whence  99.3   122.25   191.5 

258.16  346.16   364.13 
whenever  77.5   120.10   286.2 

295.25  354.20   399.7 
where   #198 
wherefore  115.5 
wherein  158.16 
whereon  2  38.3   419.30 
whereupon  215.31 
wherever  8.7   23.24   23.30 

47.28   323.31   373.4 
whet  37.1   38.16   236.22 
whether  23.4   23.23   44.18 

45.27   51.26   117.6   118.5 

134.2  148.5   212.6   228.23 

264.28  293.23   293.24   295.1 
305.1   343.29   350.11   356.3 

375.29  416.29 
whetting  52.13 
which   #778 
while   #124 

whimsical  56.21   195.11 
whip  63.25   122.19   417.17 
whirl  263.2 

whirling  119.28   354.27 

whirlpools  262.30 

whisper  40.8 

whispered  81.14   223.28 

whispering  355.9 

whispers  364.1 

whistle  90.7 

whistled  417.15 

whistlers  6.14 

whistling  5.20 

whit  136.12 

white  4.27   8.19   8.21   18.9 
18.11   19.1   19.9   27.18 
28.15   42.7   49.30   52.1 
52.21   52.31   56.14   58.30 


white  (cont.)  85.1   87.18   88.7 
90.9   168.5   197.2   206.20 

207.23  224.15   224.22   227.24 
235.29   251.31   291.24   291.25 

307.24  318.1   340.1   341.26 

344.23  384.15 
White  Mountain  87.5 

White  Mountains  85.24   85.29 
89.20 

whites  32.5   153.8 

white-scoured  257.2 

whither  11.27   122.26   159.11 
177.20   206.1   297.8 

whittled  194.21 

who   #247 

whoever  132.25   409.24 

whole  8.24   19.9   35.30   36.8 
45.20   48.20   62.24   75.15 
98.14   105.17   107.26   125.26 
155.26   197.3   210.25   211.6 
228.6   250.13   250.24   300.19 
304.2   308.20   314.9   317.4 
317.8   318.3   319.17   325.14 

328.24  330.29   346.24   348.25 

355.4  360.6   361.12   373.21 
377.28   379.8   385.25   386.29 
396.19   416.20 

wholesome  238.5 

wholly  14.11   28.3   37.16   65.17 
103.2   141.26   147.9   164.6 
181.17   200.15   282.29   289.22 
298.8   350.14   382.19   387.15 
403.22 

whom  #4  3 

whose   #86 

why  45.20   56.20   67.3   68.17 

131.19  146.14   160.8   160.24 
161.22   177.25   177.27   177.30 
217.26   224.4   273.6   296.15 

311.24  315.27   325.23   330.18 

339.20  362.2   382.24   407.15 
412.19 

Wicasuck  Falls  114.5 

Wicasuck  Island  113.22   115.25 

381.15  382.15  382.21 
Wickliffe  394.24  396.13 
wide  4.8   4.10   24.24   81.26 

110.25  127.6   140.28   210.13 

213.26  253.17   370.2   389.11 
widening  190.29 

wider  88.24   256.8   376.19 
widest  12.19   156.21   376.3 

387.29 
widow ' s  246 . 6 

width  37.16   87.16   88.24   118.29 
wield  110.9 
wife  127.12   165.23   169.3 

177.11  284.19 

wigwam  52.26   152.30   207.27 
342.15   343.10   344.15 

wigwams  173.31 

wild  6.15   36.31   52.6   52.11 

52.16   52.17   56.2   56.18   92.9 
119.24   127.18   156.12   176.30 

179.21  192.9   202.26   204.15 
204.19   212.16   216.22   217.29 

246.22  247.9   272.2   319.18 

320.5  324.15   333.23   334.30 

337.12  337.14   344.20   381.21 
385.10   420.23 

wild-apple  374.11 
wilder  246.6 

wilderness  38.30   52.7   57.4 
84.19   173.22   174.4   176.12 


wilderness  (cont.)  179.19 

268.27  292.5   324.1   342.11 
344.23 

wildest  53.27   336.23   336.31 

wildfire  222.29 

wild-flower  52.29   58.16 

wild-flowers  52.26 

wildly  358.4 

wildness  54.12   215.7 

Wilhelm  Meister  348.28 

will   #210 

willfully  100.9   333.10 

willfulness  296.21 

William  Holder  112.13 

Williamstown  192.7 

Williamstown  College  197.5 

willing  36.11   68.14   259.12 

385.9 
willingly  405.2 
willow  18.3   27.11   43.22 

128.7   357.13 
willows  8.15   17.27   19.15 

20.22   22.14   43.12   44.31 

78.27   227.17 
wills  135.28 
Winandermere  54.24 
wind  4.16   5.16   5.18   6.20 

7.5   8.7   11.20   27.22   37.21 

37.29   39.15   45.17   61.15 

77.19   87.25   90.4   101.10 

104.14  119.12   121.3   152.26 

180.15  185.16   187.13   209.7 
210.10   210.26   210.29   211.1 

221.17  222.15   225.19   235.19 

244.28  273.20   320.8   327.3 

335.23  335.28   336.30   339.30 

341.15  344.29   354.22   355.1 
355.13   356.3   356.7   357.24 

358.12  358.22   361.19   362.15 

362.18  362.20   371.29   372.13 

374.25  375.4   383.6   384.17 
384.22   384.22   385.9   385.18 
391.6   391.11   400.10 

Windham  92.30 

winding  170.5   206.16 

windings  113.2   127.9   198.15 

window  127.14   219.7   324.22 

windows  197.3   256.19 

windrows  2  2  3.19 

winds  23.23   50.25   57.10 

153.24  155.19   157.8   190.1 

202.13  210.1   223.30   266.6 
275.17   329.21   405.11 

windy  5.28 

wine  104.11   165.12   302.1 

wines  402.7 

wing  102 . 3 

winged  5.28   362.6 

winging  417.3 

wings  5.21   17.23   235.25   339.1 

361.26  383.19   385.6   385.13 
winked  181.25 
Winnipiseogee  85.24   87.5   89.14 

90.12   91.22 

winnowing  235.24 

winter  21.18   24.2   27.27 

101.22   101.24   101.29   108.31 
114.22   170.13   196.17   230.25 

230.29  291.4   292.4   302.12 

303.16  304.6   314.29   343.23 
358.6   358.15   373.31   379.1 
392.2   403.19 

winter-strained  69.19 
Winthrop  84.9   8  5.6 


wintry 


80 


wound 


wintry  6.12   366.16 

wipe  275.23 

wiry  235.24 

wisdom  60.15   93.31   94.3   102.1 
129.9   129.12   132.10   132.25 
141.16   144.16   146.18   153.19 
154.7   155.28   155.31   157.16 
165.9   301.24   331.19   348.15 

348.29  348.30   396.7   397.25 
397.28 

wise  6.17   58.17   104.17   106.6 
106.25   129.7   129.13   132.26 
136.15   141.24   142.5   154.6 
227.5   267.24   282.11   283.10 

290.28  294.28   332.1   332.5 
348.14   375.22   395.18   401.18 
413.30 

wisely  133.11   340.2 
wiser  81.5   323.25   348.15 
wisest  70.29   93.28   97.7 

106.22  140.11   275.13   413.10 
414.17 

wish  135.13   147.30   283.4   299.10 
wished  19.16   26.25   162.27 

248.13  308.4   325.2   335.14 
wishes  223.13   299.11 
wishfully  37.18 

wisp  37.21 

wit  33.13   109.22   168.27   195.18 
222.5   301.25   319.22   363.14 

397.14  397.25 
witches'  379.7 
witch-hazel  379.2 
witchlike  379.1 
with   #797 
withal  358.28 
withdraw  288.27 
withdrawal  23.2 

withdrew  20.1   118.1   118.21 

268.14 
withered  231.29   310.11   320.5 

343.23  344.16 

withering  211.25   251.28   358.5 
withers  404.24 

within  8.6   21.28   29.19   68.2 
69.1   90.26   113.17   117.13 

141.24  157.28   183.6   190.26 

230.30  251.8   253.5   253.9 
257.18   274.13   362.17   362.20 

364.29  380.17   380.23   385.31 
392.23   403.4   403.7   404.2 
409.11   412.5   414.6   419.14 

without   #111 

witness  216.25 

witnessed  67.6   223.3   260.19 

wits  66.13 

wives  282.19 

wo  40.9   40.9 

Wolff  131.22 

Wolofs  109.19   138.2 

woman  191.29   256.29   264.21 

271.22   287.11   296.4   325.25 

346.27   377.18   398.22   398.23 
womb  258.10 
women  70.14   122.16   216.9   281.11 

285.2   287.12   287.17   296.10 

335.11   341.26   342.21   343.15 

346.22   374.31   403.24 
won  103.3   268.31   281.26 
wonder  49.27   69.6   69.10   96.19 

142.29   281.13   312.14   361.11 

383.22 
wondered  180.4 
wonderful  53.4   53.4   63.23 


wonderful  (cont.)  143.5   149.14 
157.26   213.6   273.4   285.12 
312.3   388.7   412.14 

wonderfully  97.26   154.1 

wonders  158.4   202.21   250.12 
349.9 

wondrous  48.28 

wont  72.26   98.16   212.11 
287.18   322.15   408.15 

wood  6.18   13.23   13.23   13.24 
20.10   50.27   51.25   56.26 
66.12   108.17   108.30   109.2 
115.26   157.6   166.15   166.25 
167.16   179.14   179.21   183.19 
188.3   194.6   196.8   204.24 

221.8  221.19   221.20   221.23 

225.11  235.30   251.11   266.9 

282.16  284.1   307.23   336.2 

374.9  375.17   375.27   386.9 

386.10  409.19 
woodchopper  111.27 
wood-chopping  74.30 
woodchuck  128.4 
woodchucks  119.18   211.4 
woodcock  14.10 
woodcutters  157.29 

wooded  43.4  43.11  166.2  180.29 
248.6   257.26   321.25   416.15 

wooden  20.14  49.9  99.29  194.21 
304.18 

woodland  43.11   52.19   56.29 

205.6  222.22   317.8   322.8 
wood- lot  246.6 

woodlots  5.5 

woodpecker  54.11   343.27 

wood-pile  225.27 

woods  6.19   8.27   14.8   23.18 
38.24   39.31   40.14   40.19 
45.10   49.12   49.26   49.31 
50.21   52.8   52.25   62.20 
62.31   74.31   86.3   111.28 

126.9  158.1   169.9   169.30 

176.26  179.7  192.20  192.26 
194.1  205.12  205.22  208.23 
229.30   235.21   245.2   246.30 

266.7  271.18  319.10  326.25 
329.21  334.1  336.22  341.18 
341.25   343.1   349.17   356.7 

357.28  358.14   373.14   391.8 
woodside  179.17 

woody  35  3.6 

woof  12  3.6 

wool  66.25 

word  71.31   77.2   78.25   107.30 
111.24   156.10   174.29   174.29 
268.1   281.3   289.30   289.30 

290.12  290.13   295.30   303.28 
332.14   348.21   350.17   382.25 

wordly  129.11   363.6 
words  53.14   60.19   71.19   78.11 
79.10   81.10   95.2   101.31 

107.29  108.8   123.24   147.20 

155.27  157.25   202.15   218.27 

238.17  271.3   275.13   281.22 

285.10  285.15   289.24   290.11 
290.12   295.12   295.24   295.29 

327.18  348.8   350.17   350.18 

350.19  386.26   387.19   387.26 
397.9   398.8   399.7   401.8 

401.11  405.21 

Wordsworth  328.8   394.30   398.18 
wore  376.28   377.19 
work  7.2   22.12   34.27   51.22 
77.6   77.8   77.22   79.9   98.1 


work  (cont.)  108.30   110.3 

110.16  110.19   110.24   130.7 

132.17  133.3   133.20   139.9 

150.10  152.20   153.7   158.26 

167.5  206.24   208.17   211.2 
216.15   221.6   227.30   228.30 
236.25   248.4   248.8   249.6 

249.21  251.14   301.12   324.18 
327.15   333.9   336.4   337.10 

337.11  337.13   338.27   347.9 

350.8  362.29  363.22  365.25 
365.29   386.9   388.20   401.27 

402.2  402.25   402.28   403.14 

415.18  419.26 

worked  108.23   112.27   116.9 

249.3 
workers  77.10   263.3   263.26 

402.21 
working  5.1   263.4 
workman  332.26 

workmen  129.7   228.27   263.9 
works  48.20   63.5   105.8   112.29 

149.14   162.30   163.1   239.7 

319.9  327.13   336.19   347.14 

349.9  350.10  363.16  373.17 
394.28  397.26  399.15  401.6 
401.27 

workshop  109.14 

world  10.27   23.2   40.20   41.1 
45.15   67.28   68.31   69.14 
74.20   74.25   75.12   78.12 

93.12  101.23   108.28   109.23 
122.11   129.29   131.22   135.29 
140.28   146.1   147.2   148.19 

148.22  149.20  151.13  155.7 
155.25   157.14   164.12   181.23 

182.13  185.28  189.6  192.4 
193.8  197.27  197.31  198.9 
198.31   208.8   227.8   282.21 

285.6  285.9   293.23   303.6 

310.21  323.12   330.20   330.29 

332.11  332.16   338.14   340.11 

346.10  362.6   362.12   362.29 

363.14  373.22   389.16   397.26 

402.14  405.4   406.10   409.10 

411.7  412.9   412.30 
worlds  388.11   417.30 
world's  164.25   414.12 
worm  25.30   323.24   323.28 
worms  30.4   364.31 

worn  86.28   262.21   262.26 

304.22  304.25   339.31   408.17 
420.24 

worried  209.1 

worry  72.26 

worse  132.18   260.5 

worship  78.9   366.27 

worshiped  65.29 

worshipers  51.26   362.27   403.8 

worships  387.17 

worst  362.13 

worsted  66.26   371.3 

worth  5.4   5.7   59.19   64.8 

75.13  98.6   163.19   168.17 

184.12  216.23   250.18   251.15 

360.15  413.24 
worthies  148.22   149.10 
worthiest  149.10 

worthy  31.21   120.4   130.2 

150.3  185.26   185.26   228.20 
231.1   282.7   285.11   350.18 
385.28   396.10   407.8 

would   #193 
wound  372.29 


wounded 


124.29   214. If 


wounded  6  3.24 

343.1 
wounds  101.21   236.24 
woven  67.13   280.8 
wow  40.9   40.9   40.9   40.9 
wrapped  128.20   180.11   194.25 

384.9 
wrath  69.22   400.25 
wreath  189.7   358.2 
wreck  29.1   197.27 
wrecker  249.22 
wrecks  164.24   168.7   249.22 

255.14   262.29 
wrested  250.13 
wrestled  334.16 
wretched  69.14   237.7 
wriggle  136.29 
wrinkled  265.31 
wrinkles  160.12   211.23 
write  6.26   60.18   98.10 
107.19   119.11 
179.1   195.12 


100.4 
177.30 
347.9 


354.17   354.18   363.24 


108.4   108.28 


109 


364 

3 

6 


.18   365.20 

327.11 

231.9 


100.7 

178.9 

351.2 

364.4 
writer  106.12 

148.18   347.16 
writers  79.4   107 
writes  60.16 

351.23  395 
writhe  103.13 
writing  6.25 

108.22   109.11 
writings  142.20 
written  6.27   6.31   74.18   93.20 

93.31   100.9   105.31   109.15 

109.30   112.17   127.30   134.2 


99.18   105.8   106.30 
354.9   400.30 
148.8   150.4 


148. 

.2 

148.4   162.24 

L63.7 

180. 

,11 

195.31 

220 

.15 

264 

.18 

281. 

.18 

328.29 

332 

.14 

350 

.22 

350, 

.24 

383.9 

398.: 

L0 

419. 

25 

wrong 

11" 

'.4   159. 

io  : 

295 

.28 

299. 

.12 

360.19 

406 

.30 

wrong- 

-doer  329.14 

wrote 

84. 

24   88.8 

91 

.31 

112 

.14 

127, 

.27 

232.13 

233 

.6 

345. 

14 

348. 

.20 

wrought  336.26 

322.8 
377.12 


81 

Xanthus  10.11 
Xenophon's  228.21 
Yankee  89.18   226.22 
Yankee-Hindoo  256.29 
Yankees  53.21 
yard  357.5 
yards  113.19 
yarrow  52.19 
ye  295.27   304.31 
yea  36.20   402.3 
year  3.14   3.14   4.31 
33.28   37.8   37.8 

55.10   55.10 
220.30 
358.20 
380.2 
yearning  54.12 
years  8.27   22.26   32 
51.24 
123.25 
141.19 
160.20 
195.16 
219.28 
233.28 
271.21 
325.28 
346.12 


73.26      148.7       250.4 


333.25 


51.30 
174.2 
251.9 
372.5 


232 
358 

404.3 


413.28   413.29 


17.31 
51.30 

156.29 
6   232.31 
30   359.26 
0 


60.17 
126.6 

148. 

164. 

204. 
224 
251 
275 

341. 

367. 


41.1 

82.8 

134.3 

156.5 

192.5 

208.31 

230.19 

260.23 

324.6 

346.1 

420.3 
year's  6.5   195.15 
yellow  22.10   22.24 

61.30      87.17      90.29 

203.31   209.22   272 

357.27   377.28   404 
yellowest  72.6 
yellowish  87.10   250. 
yellow-haired  368.29 
Yengeese  53.20 
yes  36.23 

yesterday  7.1   332.12 
yet   #140 
yield  55.25   100.28 

223.25   290.29   419 
yielded  75.21 
yielding  44.16   53.3 
yields  56.10   372.18 
yoke  37.8   37.18   359 


19   34.25 
65.5   67.26 
127.27 
4   149.20 
168.12 
207.31 
225.15 
251.9 

308.7 
344.29 
382.  3 


9 

19 

.4 

.6 

.11 

23 

31 


26.13   42.8 

112.1 
.4   357.4 
.26 

20 


154.4 
.19 


Zoroaster 

yoked 

385 

.10 

yonder  51 

.22 

170 

.1 

221 

.8 

302, 

.5 

you   #16  5 

young 

7.5 

24 

.31 

33, 

.18 

49.5 

49.21 

55.9 

63 

.9 

85. 

16 

138. 

.13 

160 

.9 

191. 

.29 

213.20 

227 

.27 

247 

.31 

263.2: 

!   285.19 

370 

.20 

your  ! 

3.17 

25 

.12 

27 

.5 

28.10 

28.10 

71.6 

71 

.7 

71. 

13 

104. 

.7 

147.' 

7   256.25 

257.6 

282 

.23 

282, 

.24 

289.2 

290.1 

295 

.3 

295.19 

297. 

.9 

298.3 

298 

.18 

298 

.19 

304.9 

305.7 

322 

.7 

325.: 

L3 

325. 

.16 

325.17 

325 

.17 

yours 

81. 

4   281.28   295. 

17 

305 

.7 

yourself  65.2 
yourselves  18 
youth  21.10 

49.24   141. 

311.27   334 

382.16  393 
395.22 

youthful    56.2 

149.17  170 
youthfulest  3 
youthfully  14 
youths    33.18 

195.12   222 
zeal  265.6 
zenith  199.24 
zephyr  92.14 

274.19   398 
Zephyr  24  5.3 
Zeus  259.8 
zone  158.21 

291.4 
zones  103.11 
Zoroaster  149 

412.25 


1.28 

22.15   34.11 

26   203.20   303.7 

.5   349.10   374.3 

.24   394.5   394.23 

9   65.19   85.12 

3   203.22 
93.16 
9.25 

58.27   131.5 

29 


205.21   249. 1( 
31 


158.27   158.29 


27   159.5   332.7 


17 


■ii-  :. 


82 

SUPPLEMENT:   NUMBERS,  DATES,  INITIALS,  CHAPTER  HEADINGS,  FOREIGN  WORDS  AND  EXPRESSIONS 


Concord  3.T 

1635  3.5 

75  6.21 

1812  6.22 

1831  8.22 

1628  8.31 

1652  8.31   90.12 

Saturday  12. T 

1839  12.1   64.20 

1775  14.16 

1672  27.15 

1805  33.28 


N.  E. 

33.29 

34.1 

W.  I. 

33.29 

34.1 

25 

34.3 

Sunday 

42. T 

1614 

92.1 

1665 

114.1 

1683 

114.2 

1675 

114.8 
168.14 

114. 

1694 

115.15 

Monday 

121. T 

18th 

123.20 

1725 

123 

21 

1690 

168 

11 

17  54 

168 

11 

1700 

168 

16 

1725 

173 

30 

Tuesday 

188 

T 

1656 

204 

11 

1815 

207 

21 

22 

232 

6 

1677 

232 

6 

1670 

232 

31 

1685 

233 

3 

Wednesday  249. T 

1822  263.9   269.2 

1660  267.31 

1728  268.26 

1752  268.26 

1777  269.1 

Thursday  317. T 

15th  342.6 

31st  342.28 

Friday  356. T 

1785  379.26   380.19 

380.29 

1818  380.2 


Salix  Purshiana  18.4   43.27 
Chelone  glabra  18.16 
Eupatorium  purpurcum  18.18 
Pomotis  vulgaris  24.16 
Perca  flavenscens  26.19 
Leuciscus  pulchellus  27.18 
Leuciscus  argenteus  28.19 
Leuciscus  chrysoleucus  28.23 
Esox  reticulatus  29.10 
Pimelodus  nebulosus  29.30 
Catostomi  Bostonienses 

tuberlati  30.17 
Muraena  Bostonienses  31.1 
Petromyzon  Americanus  31.9 
Mikania  scandens  43.23 
parterres  55.28 

Kndo/jevn   zt     65.18 


Campanula    rotundifolia, 92  .  10 
J CfTSCh  ^-a^a  rTo^h   y-lialv      96.14 

oufx-a  n  ewdcvcct ,  Ga&c&d  ct  nxneeea. 

terra  firma  100.26 

fluvius  113.5 

rivus  113.5 

transjectus  122.31 

dolce-f ar-niente  132.3 

Ex  oriente  lux  149.31 

Tilia  Americana  166.3 

lapide  corpora  177.14 

6a<.as  ybvup>      198.23 

Sciurus    striatus    205.27 

quaeque    diu    steterant    in    montibus 
altis,    Fluctibus    ignotis 
insultavere   carinae    228.8 

ubiaue    gentium    sunt    232.30 

O  /Lpi'et  vouv  voou  qv0Cl    2  39.21 


sua  si  bona  norint  257.19 

necessarius  291.5 

particeps  criminis  328.21 

sanctum  sanctorum  330.16 

Trichostema  dichotomum  377.12 

Rhexia  Virginica  377.14 

Prunus  littoralis  381.20 

sumen    382.9  a/  ., 

/loV°£   coo'lpifoo  a^J   l)jt)S     386.8 

Aayi>S   <a0VJ<So\/  389.6 

0  alma  redemptoris  mater  398.11 

^n/f&^tTs   406.8 

Ardea  herodias  416.23 

*C0h     419.28 


APPENDIX  A: 


PROPER  NAMES 


Abelard 

Abner 

Abraham 

Achilles 

Adam 

Aeacus 

Aeneas 

Aeolus 

Agassiz 

Alcaeus 

Alexander 

Alpheus 

Alwakidis 

Amos 

Anacreon 

Anchises 

Anna 

Antigone 

Apollo 

Arch-Fiend 

Arethuse 

Argus 

Ariadne 

Ar isteus 

Aristotle 

Ar joon 

Arthur ( ' s) 

Aubrey 

Aurora 

Bacchus 

Battus 

Baxter  (  ' s) 

Belknap 

Belphoebe 

Ben  Jon son 

Black  Prince 

Blanche  the  Duchesse 


Boccaccio 

Boreas 

Botta 

Braddock 

Brahma 

Brenton 

Br iareus 

Bruce 

Buddha 

Burns 

Caleb  Harriman('s) 

Calidas 

Captain  David  M'Clary 

Captain  John  Smith 

Captain  Lovewell 

Cato ( ' s) 

Charles  Wilkins 

Charon 

Chateaubriand 

Chaucer 

Christ 

Cincinnatus 

Colonel  George  Reid 

Columbus 

Confucius 

Constance 

Crodar 

Culluca  Bhatta 

Cumaean  Sibyl 

Cummings 

Cuviers 

Cylon 

Dame  Nature 

Dandamis 

Daniel 

Dante 

Davis 


Democr itus 

Dido 

Diogenes 

Dodona 

Donne 

Dowlat  Shah 

Drayton 

Dr.  Johnson 

Dryden 

Dudleian 

Dunbar  of  Scotland 

Earl  of  Bridgewater 

Edmund  Hal ley 

Edward  the  Third 

Edwin  of  Northumbria 

Elbridge 

Eleazar  Davis 

Elisha ( ' s) 

Elnathan 

Endymion 

Eumenides 

Euphemus 

Eurypylus 

Eve 

Evelyn ( ' s) 

Farwell 

Fillan 

Fingal 

Francis  Beaumont 

Franklin  /~Benjamin7 

Fuller 

Galileo 

Gesner 

God 

Goethe 

Gookin 

Gower 


Gray 

Great  Spirit 

Griselda 

Hafiz 

Hannah  Dustan 

Hannibal 

Hastings 

Hearne ( ' s) 

Helen 

Helius 

Heloise 

Henry 

Herbert 

Herodotus 

Hesiod 

Hippocrene 

Holy  Ghost 

Homer 

Horace 

Hussein  Effendi 

Ibrahim  Pasha 

Ibycus 

Iris 

Isaac 

Isaiah 

Isis 

Ismene 

Jacob 

Jamblichus 

James  K.  Polk 

Jason 

Jehovah 

Jesus 

John  Eliot 

John  Gutenberg 

John  Hogkins 

John  Lovewell 


APPENDIX  A:   PROPER  NAMES  (CONT.) 


83 


John  of  Gaunt 

John  Owamosimmin 

Johnson 

John  Stark 

Jonah 

Jonathan  Frye 

Jonathan  Tyng 

Joseph  Hassell 

Joseph  Wolff 

Josiah  Jones 

Josselyn 

Jove 

Juno 

Jupiter 

Juvenal 

King  Creon 

King  Hary 

King  James 

Kreeshna 

Kreeshna  Dwypayen  Veias 

Latona 

Lavoisier 

Lawrence 

Ledyard 

Leucippus 

Lieutenant  Farwell 

Linus 

Little  John 

Lovewell 

Lycurgus 


MacRoine 

Marvell 

Mary  Marks 

Mary  Neff 

Memnon 

Menander 

Mencius 

Menu 

Miantonimo 

Miles  Howard 

Miles  Standish 

Milton 

Mimnermus 

Minerva 

Moore 

Moses 

Mr.  James  Parker 

Mr.  John  Hales 

Mr.  Jorge  Rodunnonukgus 

Mr.  Lund 

Musaeus 

Narcissus 

Nathan 

Nathan ( ' s) 

Neptune 

Nestor 

Newton 

Odin 

Oivana 

Oliver  Cromwell 


Onesicritus 

Orpheus 

Osiris 

Ossian 

Pan 

Patroclus 

Paugus 

Persius 

Petrarch 

Phaethon 

Phidias 

Philip 

Philyra 

Phoebu ( s '  ) 

Pindar 

Plato 

Plutarch 

Polynices 

Pope 

Popham 

Prioress ( ' s) 

Prometheus 

Proserpine 

Pythagoras 

Rasselas 

Richard  Arkwright 

Robert  Boyle 

Robin  Hood 

Robinson  Crusoe 

Roger  Bacon 


Sachem  Pasaconaway 

Sachem  Wannalancet 

Sadi 

Samuel  Lennardson 

Sam  Linis 

San jay 

Scott ( ' s) 

Shakespeare 

Simon  Detogkom 

Simonides 

Sir  James  Clark 

Sir  Joseph  Banks 

Sir  Thomas  Browne 

Sir  William  Jones 

Sisyphus 

Socrates 

Solomon 

Solon 

Sophocles 

Spaulding 

Starne 

Stesichorus 

Swedenborg 

Tahatawan 

Tamerlane 

Thomas  Fuller 

Timias 

Toahitu 

Trenmore 

Triton 


APPENDIX  B:   POETIC  ALLUSIONS 

"Fluminaque  obliguis  cinxit  declivia 
ripis . . . "  (He  confined  the  rivers). 
Ovid,  Metamorphoses . 

"Beneath  low  hills,  in  the  broad 
interval..."   Emerson,  "Musketaauid . ' 


2.T* 


3.T 


"And  thou  Simois,  that  as  an  arrowe, 

clere..."   Chaucer,  Troilus  and  Criseyde.  10.15 

"Sure  there  are  poets  which  did  never 
dream..."   Denham,  "Cooper's  Hill."        10.20 

"Come,  come,  my  lovely  fair,  and  let 
us  try..."   Francis  Quarles,  "Christ's 
Invitation  to  the  Soul,"  Emblems .  12. T 

"Were  it  the  will  of  Heaven,  an  osier 

bough..."   Pindar,  in  Emerson's 

Commonplace  Book.  13.28 

"By  the  rude  bridge  that  arched  the 

flood..."   Emerson,  "Concord  Hymn."        14.20 

"...renning  aie  downward  to  the  sea." 

Chaucer,  Troilus  and  Criseyde .  21.31 

"...a  beggar  on  the  way..."   "Robin 

Hood  and  the  Beggar,"  in  Percy's 

Reliques  of  Ancient  Poetry.  34.29 

"That  bold  adopts  each  house  he 

views,  his  own..."   Quarles,  Emblems .       35.1 

"The  river  calmly  flows..."   W.  E. 

Channinq,  "Boat  Song."  42. T 


"There  is  an  inward  voice,  that  in  the 
stream..."   W.  E.  Channing,  "The  River." 

"A  man  that  looks  on  glass..."   George 
Herbert,  "The  Elixir." 

"Bedford,  most  noble  Bedford..." 
Contemporary  ballad. 

"Some  nation  yet  shut  in..."   William 
Habington,  "Nox  nocti  indicat  scient iam. " 

"And  Iadahel,  as  saith  the  boke..." 
John  Gower ,  Confessio  Amantis . 

"Jason  first  sayled,  in  story  it  is 
tolde..."   John  Lydgate,  "A  Poem  against 
Idleness,  and  the  History  of  Sardanapalus . " 

"The  seventh  is  a  holy  day..."   Hesiod, 
Works  and  Days. 

"Where  is  this  love  become  in  later  age..." 
Quarles,  Jonah. 

"The  world's  a  popular  disease,  that 
reigns..."   Quarles,  Emblems. 


"All  the  world's  a  stage. 
As  You  Like  It. 


Shakespeare, 


"Doth  grow  the  greater  still,  the  further 
downe . . . "   William  Alexander,  "A  Paraenisis 
to  Prince  Henry." 

"So  silent  is  the  cessile  air..."   Alexander 
Hume,  "Thanks  for  a  Summer's  Day." 


44.22 


48.5 


50.29 


56.11 


57.15 


57.22 


64.  3 


68.20 


68.25 


68.29 


!.l 


92.17 


*A11  poems  that  appear  at  the  beginning  of  a  chapter  in  A  Week  are  identified  by  the  letter  T. 


APPENDIX  B:   POETIC  ALLUSIONS  (CONT.) 


84 


"Jam  laeto  turgent  in  palmite  gemmae..." 
Virgil,  Eclogues.  93.14 

"Strata  jacent  passim  sua  quaeque  sub 

arbore  poma . . . "   Virgil,  Eclogues .         93.16 

"As  from  the  clouds  appears  the  full 

moon..."   Homer,  Iliad.  95.4 


"...campoque  recepta. 


Ovid 


"Make  Bandog  thy  scout  watch  to  bark  at  a 
thief..."   Thomas  Tusser,  "Five  Hundred 
Points  of  Good  Husbandry." 

"I  thynke  for  to  touche  also..."   John 
Gower,  Prologue  to  Confessio  Amantis . 


113.13 


115.10 


121. T 


"While  it  was  dawn,  and  sacred  day 
was  advancing..."   Homer,  Iliad . 


95.12 


"The   hye    sheryfe    of   Notynghame, 
of   Robin   Hood . " 


'Gest 


121. T 


"They,  thinking  great  things,  upon  the 

neutral  ground  of  war..."   Homer,  Iliad .   95.23 


"His  shoote  it  was  but  loosely  shott , 
"Robin  Hood  and  Guy  of  Gisborne." 


121. T 


"Went  down  the  Idaean  mountains  to 
far  Olympus..."   Homer,  Iliad . 

"For  there  are  very  many..."   Homer, 
Iliad. 

"Then  rose  up  to  them  sweet-worded 
Nestor,  the  shrill  orator  of  the 
Pylians..."   Homer,  Iliad. 

"Homer  is  gone;  and  where  is  Jove?  and 
where..."   Philip  J.  Bailey,  Festus . 

"You  grov'ling  worldlings,  you  whose 
wisdom  trades..."   Quarles,  Emblems . 

"Merchants,  arise..."   Quarles,  "A 
Feast  for  Worms,"  Divine  Poems . 

"To  Athens  gowned  he  goes,  and  from 
that  school..."   Quarles,  "Job 
Militant. " 

"What  I  have  learned  is  mine;  I've 
had  my  thought..."   Diogenes  Laertius 
on  Crates. 

"...ask  for  that  which  is  our  whole 
life's  light..."   Ellery  Channing. 

"Let  us  set  so  just..."   William 
Habington,  "To  my  honoured  friend 
and  kinsman,  R.  St.  Esquire." 

"Olympian  bards  who  sung..."   Emerson, 
"Ode  to  Beauty. " 

"...lips  of  cunning  fell..."   Emerson, 
"The  Problem." 


96.5 


96.16 


96.2  3 


97.19 


99.16 


100.1 


100.18 


101.1 


102.14* 


102.20 


103.5 


104.2 


"That  't  is  not  in  the  power  of  kings 

to  raise..."   Samuel  Daniel,  Dedication 

of  the  Tragedy  of  Philotas,  "To  the 

Prince."  104.21 

"And  that  the  utmost  powers  of  English 

rhyme..."   Samuel  Daniel,  Dedication 

of  the  Tragedy  of  Philotas,  "To  the 

Prince."  104.27 


"Gazed  on  the  Heavens  for  what  he  missed 
on  Earth."   William  Browne,  "The  Shepherd's 
Pipe. " 

"All  courageous  knichtis..."   Alexander 
Montgomerie,  "The  night  is  near  gone." 

"He  and  his  valiant  soldiers  did  range 

the  woods  full  wide..."   "Ballad  of  Lovewell's 

Fight. " 

"Of  all  our  valiant  English,  there  were 
but  thirty-four..."   "Ballad  of  Lovewell's 
Fight. " 

"And  braving  many  dangers  and  hardships  in 
the  way..."   "Ballad  of  Lovewell's  Fight." 


"A  man  he  was  of  comely  form, 
of  Lovewell's  Fight." 


'Ballad 


"For  as  we  are  informed,  so  thick  and  fast 
they  fell..."   "Ballad  of  Lovewell's 
Fight. " 

"Yet  I  doubt  not  through  the  ages  one 
increasing  purpose  runs..."   Tennyson, 
"Locksley  Hall . " 

"Men  find  that  action  is  another  thing..." 
Samuel  Daniel,  Musophilus . 

"And  round  about  good  morrows  fly..." 
Charles  Cotton,  "The  Morning  Quatrain." 

"The  early  pilgrim  blythe  he  hailed..." 
"The  Lordling  Peasant,"  in  Thomas  Evans, 
Old  English  Ballads ■ 

"Now  turn  again,  turn  again,  said  the 
pinder..."   "The  Jolly  Pindar  of  Wakefield. 

"Virtues  as  rivers  pass..."   Donne, 
"Obsequies  on  the  Lord  Harrington,  Brother 
to  the  Countess  of  Bedford." 

"Thro'  the  shadow  of  the  globe  we  sweep 
into  the  younger  day..."   Tennyson, 
"Locksley  Hall . " 


121. T 


121.8 


123.26 


124.3 


124.22 


125.3 


126.10 


129.1 


132.27 


134.26 


134.29 


136.21 


137.6 


163.20 


"And  who,  in  time,  knows  whither  we 

may  vent..."   Samuel  Daniel,  Musophilus .   105.1 


"Fragments  of  the  lofty  strain. 
Scott,  "Thomas  the  Rhymer." 


Walter 


164. 30 


"How  many  thousands  never  heard  the 
name..."   Samuel  Daniel,  Musophilus. 


"They  carried  these  foresters  into  fair 
106.8      Nottingham..."   "Robin  Hood's  Progress  to 
Nottingham. " 


174.30 


♦See  Carl  Bode ' s  Collected  Poems  of  Henry  Thoreau,  p.  374,  for  explanation  of  this  poem. 


APPENDIX  B:   POETIC  ALLUSIONS  (CONT. ) 


es 


"Gentle  river,  gentle  river..."   "Rio 
verde,  rio  verde,"  in  Percy's  Reliques . 


175.14 


"...bees  that  fly..."   Giles  Fletcher, 
"Christ's  Triumph  over  Death." 


266.11 


"Then  did  the  crimson  streams  that 
flowed..."   "Ballad  of  Lovewell's 

Fight. " 


176.17 


"He  that  hath  love  and  judgment  too...' 
Matthew  Royden,  "An  Elegie,  or  Friends 
Passion,  for  his  Astrophill." 


283.16 


"When  the  drum  beat  at  dead  of  night.' 
Thomas  Campbell,  "Hohenlinden . " 


"Before  each  van. 
Lost. 


Milton,  Paradise 


"On  either  side  the  river  lie..." 
Tennyson,  "The  Lady  of  Shalott." 

"Heaven  itself  shall  slide..."   Giles 
Fletcher,  "Christ's  Victory  in  Heaven. 

"Flatter  the  mountain-tops  with 
sovereign  eye..."  Shakespeare, 
"Sonnet  33 . " 

"Anon  permit  the  basest  clouds  to 
ride..."   Shakespeare,  "Sonnet  33." 


181.7 


186.5 


188. T 


198.28 


199.17 


199.22 


"Why  love  among  the  virtues  is  not  known..." 

Donne,  "Second  Letter  to  the  Countess  of 

Huntington."  28  3.2  3 

"And  love  as  well  the  shepherd  can..." 

Fulke  Greville,  Lord  Brooke,  "Another  to 

his  Cinthia."  288.3 

"When  manhood  shall  be  matched  so..." 

Richard  Edwards,  "The  Renuing  of  Love."  291.15 

"There  be  mo  sterres  in  the  skie  than  a 

pair..."   Chaucer,  "The  Parlement  of 

Foules."  293.25 

"Silver  sands  and  pebbles  sing..."   W. 

Raleigh  to  C.  Marlowe,  "Another  Passionate 

Shepherd  to  his  Love."  314.27 


"How  may  a  worm  that  crawls  along 

the  dust..."   Giles  Fletcher,  "Christ's 

Victory  and  Triumph." 


199.26 


"Who  dreamt  devoutlier  than  most  use  to 
pray."   Donne,  "Of  the  Progress  of  the  Soul, 
The  Second  Anniversary." 


315.17 


"And  now  the  taller  sons,  whom  Titan 
warms..."  Giles  Fletcher,  "Christ's 
Victory  and  Triumph."  202.30 

"In  a  pleasant  glade..."   Spenser, 

Faerie  Queene .  214.19 

"Amongst  the  pumy  stones,  which  seemed 

to  plain..."   Spenser,  Faerie  Queene .      219.9 

"His  reverend  locks..."   "Beggar's 
Daughter  of  Bednall-Green, "  in  Percy's 
Reliques.  219.22 


"And  more  to  lulle  him  in  his  slumber 
soft..."   Spenser,  Faerie  Queene . 

"He  trode  the  unplanted  forest  floor, 
whereon..."   Emerson,  "Woodnotes." 

Lines  from  Persius. 

"Sweet  day,  so  cool,  so  calm,  so  bright. 
George  Herbert,  "The  Temple." 


"To  journey  for  his  marriage.. 
"Dream. " 


Chaucer, 


316.5 

317. T 
327-332 

335.4 

337.24 


"Of  Syrian  peace,  immortal  leisure. 
Emerson,  "The  Humble  Bee." 


230.11 


'...The  swaying  soft..."   W.  E.  Channing, 
'The  River . " 


338.22 


"Too  quick  resolves  do  resolution 

wrong..."   Quarles,  Emblems .  236.18 

"Nor  has  he  ceased  his  charming  song, 

for  still  that  lyre..."   Simonides, 

Epigram  on  Anacreon.  238.13 

"The  young  and  tender  stalk..." 

"The  Faery  Queen,"  in  Percy's  Reliques .    240.1 

Translations  from  Anacreon.  240-244 


"Not  only  o'er  the  dial's  face. 
Montgomery,  "The  Sun-Dial." 


James 


"Old  woman  that  lives  under  the  hill... 
Mother  Goose  ballad. 

"The  laws  of  Nature  break  the  rules  of 
Art."   Quarles,  "To  My  Booke." 


"The  Boteman  strayt. 
Queene. 


Spenser,  Faerie 


340.25 


347.3 


350.3 


356. T 


"Man  is  man's  foe  and  destiny." 

Charles  Cotton,  "The  World."  249. T 

"He  knew  of  our  haste..."  258.20 

"...springing  up  from  the  bottom..." 

Pindar,  Olympian  Odes.  259.6 

"The  island  sprang  from  the  watery..." 

Pindar,  Olympian  Odes.  259.9 

"Rome  living  was  the  world's  sole 

ornament..."   Spenser's  translation 

of  Du  Belay's  "Ruines  of  Rome."  264.24 


"Summer's  robe  grows... 
Anatomy  of  the  World." 


Donne, 


'The 


"And  now  the  cold  autumnal  dews  are  seen..." 
Quarles,  Hieroglyphics  of  the  Life  of  Man. 

"From  steep  pine-bearing  mountains  to  the 
plain."   Marlowe,  Hero  and  Leander . 

"Wise  Nature's  darlings,  they  live  in  the 
world..."   William  Drummond,  "A  Pastoral 
Elegy  on  the  Death  of  Sir  William  Alexander." 

" . . .at  all 

Came  lovers  home  from  this  great  festival." 

Marlowe,  Hero  and  Leander. 


356. T 


357.20 


359.4 


359.10 


359.20 


APPENDIX  B:   POETIC  ALLUSIONS  (CONT. ) 

Lines  from  Ossian.  367-371 

"And  what's  a  life?  The  flourishing 
array..."  Quarles,  "The  Brevity  of 
Human  Life."  377.1 

"I  see  the  goldenrod  shine  bright..." 

W.  E.  Channing,  "Autumn."  378.1 

"For  first  the  thing  is  thought  within 

the  hart..."   Chaucer,  The  Court  of 

Love.  397.10 

"If  that  God  that  heaven  and  yearth 

made..."   Chaucer,  Legend  of  Good 

Women .  399.11 

"There  is  a  place  beyond  that  flaming 

hill..."   Giles  Fletcher,  "Christ's 

Victory  in  Heaven."  403.27 

"The  earth,  the  air,  and  seas  I  know, 

and  all..."   George  Chapman,  Caesar 

and  Pompey .  405.22 


86 


"Although  we  see  celestial  bodies  move..." 

Donne  "Elegy  18."  406.1 

"Largior  hie  campos  aether  et  lumine 

vestit . . . "   Virgil,  Aeneid .  406.15 

"Unless  above  himself  he  can..."   Samuel 

Daniel,  "Epistle  to  the  Lady  Margaret, 

Countess  of  Cumberland."  407.10 

"I  asked  the  schoolman,  his  advice  was 

free..."   Quarles,  Emblems.  407.18 

"He  that  wants  faith,  and  apprehends  a 

grief..."   Quarles,  "On  Faith,"   Divine 

Fancies.  414.23 

"By  them  went  Fido,  marshal  of  the  field..." 

Phineas  Fletcher,  "The  Purple  Island."  414.28 

"Therefore,  as  doth  the  pilgrim,  whom  the 

night..."   William  Drummond,  Flowers  in 

Sion.  417.7 

"Pulsae  referunt  ad  sidera  valles, "   Virgil, 

Eclogues.  417.26 


APPENDIX  C:   POETRY  INDEX 

abate 

abate  302.27 

abide  186.11   302.23   416.2 

able  242.33   408.1 

abroad  313.9 

absence  277.4 

a-calking  229.6 

accord  276.18 

acquaintances  277.23 

across  152.3 

acts  186.14   224.24 

adventures  184.25 

advice  299.2 

Aeolian  184.14 

aerial  229.16 

afar  103.28   314.8 

affairs  76.18   241.14 

affinity  275.7 

afflicted  244.24 

afflicts  244.23 

Africa  278.32 

after  276.8 

again  86.24   255.1   298.31 

320.21   375.10 
against  267.12   320.31   331.10 
age  111.3   172.18 
aged  16.8 
ages  235.3 
ago  267.10   267.15 
agone  247.20   267.15 
ah  15.1   103.29   410.27 
air  46.33   50.13   172.12   173.1 

184.26   201.7   201.11   229.18 

234.7   241.24   277.22   411.3 
air-water  229.13 
aisles  313.26 
Ajax  320.30 
alas  276.5 
alive  186.18 
allure  297.21   375.13 
all's  321.10 
alone  76.16   172.25   181.31 

277.6   279.19   321.19   351.5 


along  76.33   171.34   247.24 

255.31 
alway  276.11 

always  171.8   240.27   279.21 
amber  172 . 3 
amid  46.21   170.30 
amidst  366.6 
among  244.10 

Anacreon  241.28   241.34   242.11 
ancient  15.13   278.25 
angel  187.1 
anon  16.14   278.30 
another  103.16   411.2 
anticipate  313.23 
antiquated  234.18 
ants  320.27 
anxious  184.18 
anything  331.10 
appear  103.32 
appears  314.6 
appropriate  373.27 
approve  173.12 
arch  234.12 
argument  170.24 
arm  15.14 
armed  373.28 
around  152.3 
arrow-tips  186.30 

art  241.27   242.33   267.8   297.25 
ask  7.14   15.18 
asker  7.17 

aspects  253.1   415.29 
astonished  408.6 
as't  303.1 

Athabasca  Lake  180.23 
Atlantic  278.18 
Atlantides  278.14 
Atridae  240.9 
attend  321.1 
attentive  46.20 
autumn  366.10   404.7 
autumnal  404.6 


before 

avails  277.3 

await  172.14 

awake  314.2 

away  15.12   186.9   186.9   186.9 

186.9   188.16   188.16   200.18 

200.18 
axe  173.5 
axle  103.27 
ay  17.9 
Azores  278.27 
babbling  186.23 
back  244.8 
backbone  76.15 
bade  242.25 
banks  201.12 
bare  410.24 
bargain  277.2 
bask  302.24 
bates  37  5.13 

Bathyllus  241.10   241.29   243.30 
battles  240.33   241.15   320.26 
bay  224.30 

beach  255.17   278.20 
beaded  321.24 
beam  171.13 

beams  16.31   313.19   321.22 
bear  46.19   201.16   235.6   241.36 

331.13   411.5 
beareth  15.7 
bearing  180.17   225.2 
bears  152.2   152.7   297.23 

314.8 
beasts  46.27 
beat  15.10   229.1 

beautiful  243.11   243.31   244.16 
Beauty  243.7 
Beauty's  276.7 
becalmed  151.28 
become  321.23 
bed  234.22   321.5   321.13 
bee  244.12   244.21   244.23 
before  171.8   224.27   314.6 


before  (cont . ) 


87 


core 


before  (cont. 
began  240.15 
begin  2  34.30 
begun  76.20 
behave  70.2 
beheld  224.25 
behind  151. 
behold  267. 
believe  15. 
bell  50.9 
below  62.12 


372.7 


366.9 


247.23   366.12 


27 
9 

9   46.16 
184.28 
321.20 


46.24 


366.8 
103.23 
311.12 


366.3 


beneath  151.29   152.2   276.24 

297.33   320.24 
beside  15.5   187.8   243.6 
best  50.6 

better  163.22   186.16 
between  302.17   320.27 
beyond  173.2   182.1   182.2 

255.22   276.31 
bid   320.28 
Billericay  16.28 
billow  234.25 
billows  229.18   247.25 
binds  75.29 
bird  229.20 
birds  243.4   314.2 
birth  15.26   42.14 

173.10   184.19 
bittern  201.14 
black  235.6   320.29 
blindly  70.1 
bliss  277.8 
blood   69.30   275.9 
bloom  201.12   410.19 
blue  171.16   172.26   186.26 

321.4 
blustering  152.11 
boat  47.19 
bold  171.30 
bond  410.2 
book  16.11   320.23 
books  279.20   320.16   320.23 
booms  201.14 
Bootes  241.7 
bore  152.12 
born  76.18 
borne  235.2 
bosom  184.22 
both  365.31 
bough  320.24   321.18 
bought  182.19 
bound  17.14 
boundless  366.6 
bounds  244.4 
bow  331.11 
bowers  47.22   404.9 
bowl  76.1 
boy  241.29   276.5 
brain  375.7 
brake  180.22 
branches  410.22 
brand  243.20 
brass  50.4   50.12 
braver  15.3 
braves  234.16   247.26 
bread  186.19   242.9 
breadth  171.13 
break  314.4 
breakers  229.18 
breast  186.25 
breathe  173.1 
breathes  184.26 
bred  75.22 


breeding  75.24 

breeze  152.5   172.14   279.24 

313.22 
bribed  15.19 
bridge  16.12 
bridle  244.2 
brier  180.22 
bright  17.8   186.32   187.7 

278.16 
brighter  302.30 
brightest  302.19 
brightly  16.32 
bring  86.22   327.22 
Britain  15.12 
broad  384.3 
broken  410.15 
brook  297.30 
brother  173.12 
brought  46.17   76.2   172.20 

182.21 
brow  173.7   234.32   267.18 
brows  171.16   242.31 
browsest  244.5 
bucklers'  187.5 
buds  410.25 
bulls  242.36 
bunch  410.7 
Bunker  Hill  15.30 
burn  103.17 
burns  184.22 
business  321.2 
busy  7.24 
Cadmus  240.10 
Caesar  276.13 
Californ'  180.20 
call  180.18   244.20   279.6 
came  16.14   180.16   234.33 

276.16 
camp-fires  171.33 
cannot  17.1   70.1   103.30   297. 2( 

298.28   320.16   373.26 
canst  172.37   241.2 
cape  152.3 
caprice  297.27 
car  103.19   103.29 
cardinal-flowers  47.21 
care  255.21   320.25 
careful  47.17 
careless  331.13 
cares  76.19 
cargo  170.32 
Carnac  267.7 
Carnac's  267.19 
case  277.15 
cast  255.30   276.6   320.16 

375.9 
catch  408.2 
caverns  225.6 
celebrate  277.13 
celestial  17.3   17.11 
centuries  172.20 
certain  243.19 
champion  187.9   187.11 
chance  277.5   410.2 
change  313.7   313.9 
changed  240.13 
changing  76.9 
charger  186.28 
charm  299.1 
charts  278.23 
cheat  416.7 
cheek  279.24 
cheer  7.26   76.33   313.25 


cheerful  313.30 

chiefly  182.16 

child  69.28 

children  410.27 

child's  172.9 

chime  187.4 

China  152.9   152.14 

choose  47.16   298.28   351.4 

chords  240.12 

circle  170.20 

cities  15.25 

civil  42.13 

clang  187.5 

clashing  187 . 5 

clay  331.12 

clearing  172.28   173.8 

cleaving  173.6 

climb  302.28 

climbs  46.12 

clime  224.27   416.8 

clip  243.25 

close  170.31 

clothes  313.5 

cloud  46.20   47.1   50.14   201.6 

cloud-like  278.28 

clouds  171.6   172.2   313.13 

321.3   321.9 
clover  321.7 
cluster  171.7 
clusters  241.9 
clutched  277.19   410.13 
coast  278.30 
coat  321.24 
coiled  410.10 
cold  170.28 
Colt  243.32 

columns  267.11   267.19 
come  76.26   247.26   303.2 

313.22   321.14 
coming  240.23 
commenced  235.5 
commerce  278.30 
companions  255.25   279.15 
companion's  279.26 
compelled  366.11 
compliments  76.10 
Concord  15.31 
Concord's  16.30 
condition  311.13 
confess  276.26 
confides  255.24 
confine  152.4 
conauers  243.10 
conquest  229.14 
consanguinity  275.8 
conscience  75.22   75.29   76.5 

76.7   76.11 
conscientious  76.29 
constant  404.17 
consume  408.4 
contain  278.23 
contains  255.29 
contend  279.3 
content  170.20   302.18 
contraband  170.32 
contrive  277.4 
conversing  184.30   302.25 
conveys  46.15 
convoying  171.6 
cool  171.16 
copper  152.2 
cordial  321.9 
core  404.13 


corpses 


88 


exercised 


corpses  227. 3 

corselet  186.26 

country  321.17 

country's  16.17 

course  152.4   244.4 

cowards  76 . 29 

craftily  297.20 

creature  69.27 

creels  375.12 

crests  243.16 

cried  244.14 

crimson  255.29 

croft  171.28 

crook  16.10   16.15 

crop  15.8 

crow  242.21 

crowd  46.21   182.12 

crown  279.5   320.27 

crows  331 . 12 

cry  7.13   302.18 

crystals  321.20 

cunning  104.6 

cup  241.1   410.24 

Cup  240.29 

Cupid  244.9 

curiosity  227.4 

curious  366.12 

current  234.30   415.23 

Cygnus  17.14 

Cythere  241.31 

daisied  201.12 

dale  16.19 

damage  277.17 

damask  172.2 

dance  242.14 

dangling  410.3 

dark  47.6 

dawn  188.23   243.29   302.16 
314.1 

day  7.10   7.24   15.10   15.22 
16.30   16.32   17.13   41.5 
42.13   103.15   171.23   171.27 
186.11   188.18   200.21   229.15 
267.14   276.9   302.16   302.24 
366.11   410.18   415.27 

days  278.25   303.1 

day's  171.35 

dead  186.17 

deal  70.5 

dealing  76.10 

dealt  16.9 

dear  15.9   240.22 

dearer  277.15 

debtors  7.27 

deed  184.21 

deeds  186.16 

deep  17.5   17.6   152.6   183.12 
241.2 

deeper  255.28   255.30 

deeply  17.5 

defeats  241.16 

defiles  172.16 

deign  302.20 

delay  366.1 

departure  277.12 

depth  171.12   172.3 

descendants  69.32 

descends  184.20 

descents  415.26 

described  15.17 

descry  17.1   279.27 

designed  276.7 

desire  111 . 3 


desolate  278.29 

despair  187.10 

devil  76.25 

dew  188.20   321.2 

dew-cloth  201.9 

dewdrop  188.17 

die  7.12   244.18 

difference  313.10 

different  241.19 

diffuse  241.25 

dig  373.26 

dight  172.4 

dim  297.14 

din  15.1   62.13   180.17   234.29 

dip  47.17 

directest  331.11 

directly  242.1 

directs  15.23 

disappearing  240.25 

discern  372.9 

discourse  302.28 

discover  70.7 

disgracing  103.21 

displayed  229.15 

distance  277.18 

distant  170.22   225.6   279.6 

279.29   279.30 
distill  86.19 
distills  321.18 
distinct  384.3 
distinguished  243.15 
dive  373.26 
divine  275.7 
doing  241.33   332.23 
dome  267 . 7 
dong  50.4 
dost  111.4   241.23   241.25 

243.22   243.24   244.6   331.12 
doth  16.30   62.10   172.30 

182.11   227.4   277.4   279.17 

279.27   297.24   302.16   302.20 

410.16 
dotted  278.24 
doubleness  277.4 
doubt  76.12   182.18 
dove  241.22 
Dove  241.21 
dragon-fly  375.14 
drapery  201.9 
draught  86.22 
dream  15.7   15.9   16.6   47.4 

201.9 
dreaming  267.10 
dreams  243.31   276.29 
drenched  321.13 
drifting  201.11   384.4 
drink  242.12 
drinking  242.14   410.20 
drip  321.17   321.17 
dripping  321.23 
drive  103.19   277.2 
driven  172 . 35 
droop  411.6 
drop  186.25   321.2 
dropping  404.14 
drops  234.33   321.11 
drought  62.10 
drowned  76.1 
drowsy  47.4 
dry  229.13 
duds  172.10 
dulse  255.29 
dwell  7.7   7.11   279.18 


dwelt  16.8 

dynasties  172.21 

each  171.4   188.17   255.23 

255.23   276.29   276.29   276.31 

277.11   279.25   302.16 
eagle  297.30 
eagle's  297.11 
ear  104.5   332.22 
earlier  50.18 
early  42.10 
earn  186.19 
earnest  75.31 
ears  277.11   372.6 
earth  15.16   17.9   42.15   103.22 

173.9   184.20   186.27   229.16 
earthly  17.12   415.24 
earths  171.22 
earth's  172.11 
east  50.4 
eastern  46.8   47.2   302.29 

314.5 
easy  330.14 
eat  242.9 
eating  242.8 
eaves  172.36 
echoing  229.5   366.13 
edge  172.11   255.18 
edged  172.1 
eels  375.11 
e'er  62.10   321.22 
either  240.26   416.4 
elegy  277.9   277.10 
elements  415.25 
elf  321.23 
else  50.11   313.8 
Elysian  fields  410.14 
employment  255.21 
emprise  170.29 
empty  277.19 
enacted  320.26 
encircled  410.9 
encroach  42.13 
end  279.16 
ends  7.26 
endure  375.16 
enemy ' s  171 . 33 
enfeeble  62.10 
Engraver  178.15 
enjoy  171.26   267.20 
enough  17  3.1 
equal  311.12 
ere  184.20   235.6 
erect  267.11 
errand  241.27 
establish  229.23 
estate  7.16   373.29 
estuary  229.17 
eternity  186.15 
Eternity  181.31   277.5 
ethereal  229.11   229.17 
Ethiops  103.32  . 
eve  46.32 
even  172.6   172.15   173.2 

188.23   243.10   311.13 
evening  17.2   42.11   180.18 

182.21   416.5 
events  76.9 
ever  7.16   42.14   103.26   184.27 

188.23   278.17   278.19   279.22 
evermore  279.1   416.2 
everything  297.13 
evil  76.24 
exercised  76.11 


exhaled 


89 


greets 


exhaled  46.26 

expand  172.37   182.11 

expanse  16.17 

expecting  366.5 

experienced  234.35 

ex  tempore  331.13 

extravagant  172.6 

eye  7.15   46.9   172.26   229.14 

279.26   297.14   297.32 
eyelash  47.6 
eyes  17.2   17.10   241.20   276.22 

299.1   372.7 
fabled  278.19 
face  242.16 
failed  16.5 
fain  320.16 
faint  180.17   278.28 
fainted  242.30 
faintest  17.12 
faintly  247.25 
fair  241.12   279.1   410.14 
fairer  411.4 
fairest  302.22   303.4 
fairies '  50.9 
faith  15.15   178.12 
faithful  186.28 
fall  15.6   390.5 
falling  321.11 
falls  17.12 
false  76.17 
fame  16.15   186.21   187.12 

276.14 
family  275.10 
fancy  172.15 
fanning  242 . 31 
far  15.12   16.28   50.18   152.11 

172.26   234.32   235.3   278.31 

279.18   302.17   313.26   415.28 

416.3 
farewell  240.18 
farther  276.30 
fashion ' s  313.7 
fast  111.4   321.11 
fast-abiding  313.15 
fate  54.30 
fates  151.26 
Father's  103.29 
favor  178.14   320.29 
favoring  297.22 
fays  201.10 
fear  172.34 
feast  50.5   407.30 
features  276.6 
fed  16.18   407.29 
feebleness  276.12 
feed  186.21   320.18 
feeds  186.23 
feel  171.11   299.3 
feeling  75.23 
feels  279.24 
feet  331.13 
fell  104.5 
fenny  201.13 
fertile  279.1 
few  172.5   255.25 
field  15.5   302.22 
fields  152.4   201.17   229.23 

234.5   242.6   277.14 
fifty  163.22 
fight  15.23 
fill  297.24 
find  15.30   69.26   69.26   151.31 

170.30   186.24   313.10 
finds  75.30 


fine  16.29   229.19 

finer  407.29   407.29 

finger  244.13 

finished  76.21 

fire  103.25   243.11   243.14 

firm  152.1   170.24   171.11 

279.16 
first  16.31   17.1   200.18 

279.4   314.2 
fishes  243.3 
fit  171.24 
fitting  277.14 
fix  187.2 

fixed  186.32   410.12 
flaming  103.19 
flash  47.5 
fleet  170.26 

flight  17.9   243.4   297.19 
float  47.20 
floated  229.3   375.15 
floating  278.22 
floats  321.15 
flock  16.9 
flow  188.19   278.15 
flowed  2  34.36 
flower-bell  321.12 
flower-bells  46.25 
flowers  267.9   313.23   404.8 

411.4 
flows  62.11 
fluttering  50.7 
fly  103.28   186.31   241.23 

242.5 
flying  244.15 
foe  187.1 
foemen  186 . 31 
foil  267.12 
fold  172.2 
folk  50.10   76.30 
folks  7.6 

foot  15.6   47.14   184.16   241.18 
forayed  276.21 
forced  276.27 
foreign  15.29 
forest  171.32   313.27 
forest-floor  235.7 
forever  17.8   76.8   234.36 
forge  172.29 
forgot  276.26 
forsooth  277.18 
forth  404.8 
forthwith  302.27 
fortunes  151.30 
found  17.13   278.20   415.23 
founded  275.8 
fountain-head  201.8 
founts  186.23 
fowler's  297.18 
fragments  408.2 
fragrance  408.3 
free  42.11   46.30   69.31   242.2 

297.10 
free-born  15.19 
freely  184.26 
freer  411.3 
freights  278.31 
fresh  276.22 
freshly  171.16 
Friend  279.17 
friends  7.27 
frith  229.17 
frontier  170.19 
fruits  408.3   411.4 
funeral  50.5   171.35 


furnish  278.31 

future  172.20 

gadding  181.30 

gains  255.22 

'gainst  188.21 

gale  171.8   172.19   297.22 

gales  404.7 

gamboling  244.6 

garment's  321.16 

gauze  229.11 

gay  313.14 

gayly  321.24 

gaze  234.6   278.26 

gear  171.13 

generous  184.22 

gentle  16.16   46.15   46.23 

47.11      47.14      47.15       50.10 

276.5 
gently  46.33   47.19   186.25 

321.10 
get  242.19   276.17   372.6 
gilds  313.13 

give  70.9   76.30   187.1   243.7 
given  242.35   311.12 
gives  242.12 
gladly  17.4 
glance  16.16 
glances  279.23 
glancing  46.9 
glass  50.13 
gleam  47 . 3 
gleaming  234.5 
gleams  247.24 
glide  224.29 
gliding  247.21 
globe  171.32   321.14 
glorious  276.15 
glowing  103.25 
gnarled  46.13 
go  184.29   187.3   227.4   255.18 

320.17   321.24 
god  76.25 
God  70.4   76.20   76.33   351.5 

411.3 
gods  69.24   86.19   320.29 

416.1 
God's  171.28 
goes  16.32   234.22 
going  240.23   242.17 
gold  172.1   241.10 
golden  54.31   103.22   103.24 

172.18 
gone  15.22   16.7   235.3   242.19 

277.8   297.25   313.20 
good  7.26   76.14   76.24   76.25 

76.25   320.20   320.22 
Good  298.25   298.27   298.30 
goodness  69.26   76.26 
gorge  172.28 
go'st  240.25 
gracious  46.10 
grand  170.20   224.24 
grape  404.9 
grapes  241.9   241.11 
grasp  277.18 
grave  178.13   186.24 
graven  172.12 
graves  234.18 
great  70.8 
Grecian  15.25 
Greece  54.28 
Greeks  320.25 
green  278.22   410.22 
greets  267.17 


grief 


90 


length 


grief  234.23   404.17 

ground  17.12   170.19   415.24 

grounds  416.6 

gum  22  5.2 

hail  17.4 

half  235.1 

hand  15.23   244.14   255.24 

255.31   416.4 
hands  242.10   277.20 
hang  172.2   137.7 
harbingers  314.7 
hard  276.27 
hares  243.1 
Harp  184.14 
harvest  404.10 
hast  234.36   235.2   242.20 

243.30   244.7 
haste  277.13   410.15 
hasten  111.4 
hastening  242.26 
hastes  200.21 
hat  76.27 
hath  180.21   182.19   182.21 

184.15   277.18 
haunt  224.31 
haunted  235.6 
heaven  172.13 
Hawthorne  16.19 
hay  7.9   171.29 
haze  234.5   276.21 
hazel  404.8 

head  46.22   321.7   407.30 
headland  416. 3 
healing  201.17 
health  7.19 
hear  69.24   182.1   184.28   186.17 

384.2   416.5 
heard  183.13   313.29   314.3 
hearing  372.6 
hearken  184.27 
hears  279.29 

heart  15.10   15.17   240.28   242.29 
hearts  243.20 

heat  170.28   229.13   229.18 
heated  234.7 
heath  229.22 
heathen  42.12 
heats  302.27   314.7 
heave  46.33   320.31 
heaven  172.16   172.36   173.9 

297.29 
Heaven  172.6   187.10 
heavenly  17.15   103.23   187.6 
heavens  313.14 
heeds  279.23 
height  15.21 
Helicon  86.24 
hem  321.16 
hemlock  234.11 
hence  180.23 

henceforth  103.31   240.18   277.9 
herbs  46.26   201.17 
Hercules  240.16 
herd's-grass  321.5 
hero  15.13 

heroes  186.17   240.19 
heron  201.14 
he'll  242.2 
hides  152.9   152.14 
high  15.10   16.31   170.29   173.6 

229.5   297.28   415.28 
high-souled  184.29 

hill  46.14   86.20   151.29   302.29 
hills  234.27 


himself  242.11   321.21 

Himself  241.13   276.16 

history's  172.17 

hit  320.19 

hold  152.8   171.12 

holding  170.29   173.9   244.3 

hollow  241.1 

homage  276.26 

home  267.8 

Homer  320.20   320.28 

honest  178.10 

honesty  171 . 3 

honored  15.16 

hoofs  242.36 

hook  375.9 

horizon  50.11   171.34   313.31 

horizon's  172.8 

horns  242.35 

horse  241.17 

horseman  244.7 

horses  242.36   243.13 

host  241.19   320.31 

hour  50.18   182.16   321.1   410.19 

hourly  313.7 

hours  411.1 

house  75.22 

House  of  Fame  276.14 

hovering  234.17   297.12 

hues  313.32 

hulk  152.12 

hum  313.24 

human  171.31   275.8 

humble  313.23 

hummed  24  7.2  2 

hummock's  320.27 

hunter  247.19 

hunter ' s  404.10 

hurled  171.25 

hurt  69.25 

husbandmen  15.27   244.21 

husk  277.19 

hyacinthine    242.24 

hypocrite  76.26 

ice  152.4 

idle  7.25   181.30   188.22 

idly  366.4 

ignoble  15.2 

illumes  313.12 

immeasurable  171.12 

income  276.18 

indeed  240.22   240.32   242.9 

independence  69.31 

Indian  152.13   247.19 

Indian's  234.21 

Indies  373.28 

inland  229.19   279.18 

inmost  313.12   313.29 

insect's  313.24 

instead  243.8   243.9 

instinct  75.22 

interchange  302.26 

intermixed  410.8 

intrude  313.19 

Inward  313.4 

iron  243.10 

irrevocably  277.8 

island  278.17 

islands'  278.26 

isles  278.29 

issue  320.28 

itself  76.16   242.18 

jewels  279.5 

joy  75.32   234.23   299.5 

joys  76.19   277.16 


juices  410.20 

June  62.9 

just  62.15   62.15   201.17 

229.2   298.26 
juster  320.26 
keep  229.2   410.22 
keeping  76.5 
ken  298.32 
kept  186.10 
kernel  277.20 
killed  244.17   244.18 
kindest  46.18 
kindly  70.2   255.24 
kindness  275.7 
kingdom  276.16 
knees  171.21 
knell  50.8   277.12 
knew  46.16   46.27   276.5   372.9 
knightly  15.14 
know  17.3   17.13   186.18   188.22 

243.18   244.1   276.27   277.8 

277.24  298.30   410.27 
knowledge  299.6 

known  255.28   298.31   313.21 

knows  411.3 

know' st  172.34 

laboring  76.30   172.19 

labors  240.15   279.15 

labyrinth  201.13 

lack  276.10 

Laconian  15.32 

laden  180.20 

lagging   247.20 

lakes  46.29   201.15 

lambs  16.16 

lance  186.27 

land  15.29   151.27   170.31 

224.25  224.25   279.4   279.14 
297.12   408.6   410.21 

lands  186.12 

land's  279.16 

landscapes  276.22 

landsmen  279.25 

lapse  384.2 

larch  234.11 

large  76.12   320.17 

larger  70.10 

last  229.14   321.6 

late  277.17 

lately  240.13   241.30   276.5 

laughing  76.6 

laved  46.29 

laves  234.19 

law  410.11 

lawful  332.23 

lay  366.13 

leaf  234.24   276.24   404.16 

lean  54.31 

leaning  173.11 

leaped  242.29 

learn  320.28 

learning's  372.9 

lease  186.15 

least  17.11 

leave  151.27   182.12   297.16 

297.26  366.12 
leaven  172.30 
leaves  321.20 

left  16.13   76.22   172.9   172.10 
181.31   186.13   277.20   410.25 

leisure  171.15   186.13   321.1 

lend  7.17 

length  7.20   151.28   171.13 
171.18 


lengthy 


91 


lengthy  200.19 

lent  225.5 

less  104.6   276.28 

lesser  298.32 

let  15.9   103.30   255.20 

267.9   267.11 
lets  351.5 
letters  241.36 
Lexington  15.31 
lie  62.12   171.18   224.26   227.3 

267.11   313.5   320.24 
lies  172.8   178.10   178.15 

188.18   302.22 
lieth  302.31 
life  54.30   75.27   76.2   76.27 

182.17  184.18  186.21  255.17 
320.21   365.30   366.5   410.26 

life's  227.4   253.2 

light  7.22   17.10   17.12   46.10 

172.3   229.17   243.25   302.23 

313.15   313.25 
lighted  171.36 
lightly  244.6 
lightning ' s  47.3 
lights  17.3   187.7 
limber  171.21 
limbs  46.13 

line  171.4   171.30   267.14 
linger  172.18 
lingering  171.26   267.16 
links  410.3 
lions  243.2 
little  62.6   224.24   241.32 

244.19 
live  76.27   320.21   330.15   331.13 

365.31   372.8 
lived  372.8 
lives  76.3   184.17 
living  103.22 
lo  313.17 
locks  321.23 
lonely  321.15 
long  15.22   279.17 
look  297.32   313.9   366.4   375.8 
looks  279.21 
loose  410.4 
loquacious  243.23 
lord  276.20 
lore  17.5   372.9 
lose  187.9 
louder  234.29 
love  75.27   75.31   76.13   76.31 

182.18  184.23  240.12  242.33 
277.21  278.15  297.10  297.28 
298.30 

Love  240.27   241.10   242.22 

242.23   242.31   244.10   244.25 

loved  276.28   276.28 

lovely  241.22 

lover  70.8 

lovers  243.17 

Lovers  243.12 

loves  240.17   240.20 

low  46.8   227.3   278.16   330.14 
415.28 

low-anchored  201.6 

low-hung  4  7.1 

lowly  247.22 

lumbering  180.16 

lurking  404.15 

luxurious  171.14 

Lyaeus  241.12 

Lyndeboro'  2  34.27 

lyre  240.11   240.14   240.16 


lyre  (cont.)  240.19   242.18 

Lyre  240.8 

made  10.23   171.22   242.20   410.4 

Madeira  152.8 

mail  180.18 

main  278.24 

mainly  70.6 

make  69.23   103.16   234.8   240.31 

241.3   241.8   242.2   277.13 

303.3   410.16 
makes  75.30   173.8   321.19 
Malabar  278.32 
mallet  229.4 

man  178.10   184.16   242.21 
Manilla  152.7 
manned  276.8 
Manse  16.18 
man's  224.24 
Marathon  54.29 
march  234.13 
margins  46.29 
marine  279.22 
mariner  278.20 
mark  243.13 
mast  404.14 
master ' s  242 . 15 
masts  152.1   171.21 
mate  297.31   302.25 
matters  152.5 

meadow  7.11   7.19   201.11   320.18 
meads  244.5 
mean  54.30 
Meander  235.4 
meant  46.27   225.3 
measurer's  267.8 
measuring  267.8 
meet  41.6   187.3   234.6   277.7 

321.4 
mellow  404.13 
melt  321.22 
melted  103.27   234.31 
Memnon ' s  267.17 
memories  54 . 31 
Memphis  240.26 
men  15.21   ]7.6   86.21   184.29 

243.5   243.16   279.18   279.20 

311.12   320.23   373.26 
mend  7.16   201.17 
Merrimack  234.28 
metal  50.12   171.10 
methinks  171.14   410.5 
middle  255.29 
midnight  404.11 
mid-noon  404.11 
midsummer  278.25 
mighty  75.32 
migratest  173.3 
milder  366.11   410.6 
miles  313.28 
milky  103.16 
mills  234.28 
mimicry  410.26 
mind  46.30   104.5   313.5   313.12 

313.31   320.19 
mine  46.19   302.17   302.19 
mirage  278.21 
modern  15.26 
moment  276.29 
moments  372.8   408.5 
Monadnock  170.23 
monarchs  279.3   321.6 
monumental  15.24 
moods  404.15 
moon  225.5   297.17   404.10 


moors  75.26 

morn  180.21   188.20   267.16 

313.18 
morning  172.14   188.17   277.22 

313.22  313.25   313.30   366.2 
Morning  313.4 

morrow  302.30 

mortal  103.20 

mortals  277.24 

Mosses  16.18 

mother  244.17 

Mother  267.17 

mould  15.13   276.6 

mountains  172.11   242.6 

mountain's  234.32 

mounted  244.8 

mouth  242.30 

murky  313.20 

murmur  276.2  3 

murmurs  330.14 

music  277.11   404.17 

must  17.5   17.9   151.29   277.6 

297.10  297.14   297.16 
myself  173.12 

mystery  278.18 

names  235.2 

napkin  201.10 

Nashua  384.4 

natal  182.16 

native  151.27   184.26   224.27 

natural  247.22 

nature  69.28   313.6 

Nature  235.8   242.35   302.16 

Nature's  229.12 

naught  171.17   410.31 

near  103.19   253.1   255.18 

415.28 
nearer  276.29 
nectar  86.22 
need'st  111.4 
ne'er  46.11   171.30 
neglect  17.11 
neighboring  278.22 
neighbors  279.14 
neither  241.4 

nest  240.24   240.28   366.12 
net  297.18 
never  7.12   7.26   17.7   170.24 

184.16   321.21 
new  15.27   86.21   171.22   172.21 

187.11  241.19   313.11   313.25 
New  England  15.27   86.21 

New  England's  152.11   152.12 

Newfoundland  201.7 

news  172.20   180.20   279.22 

313.30 
nicer  321.6 
nigher  103.26   103.26 
night  7.10   7.23   41.5   313.20 

415.27 
nightly  297.17 
Nile  240.26 
nimbly  313.27 
noble  276.20 
none  76.17   184.15   276.19 

277.10  278.19   298.29 
noon  50.16   188.22   229.2 

229.21 
noonday  313.24   384.3 
noontide  42.11   224.28   302.21 
nor  7.13   7.13   7.14   172.34 

173.11  182.19   188.22   241.4 
241.5   241.18   241.18   277.24 

302.23  320.22   320.23 


northern 


92 


respectable 


northern  187.7 

nosegay  410.13 

notes  243.29 

nothing  172. 31 

novel  171.15 

now  182.16   182.17 
242.9   244.5 
267.17   276.27 
320.26   321.2 
321.16   410.31 

numbering  17.4 

nursery  170.22 

oaks  7.8 

oar  47.17 

oars  188.16 

oats  321.5 

observe  366 

occasion  277.16 

ocean  7.18   186.23 
255.27 

ocean's  255.18 

ode  200.22 

o'er  16.12 
229.23 
247.25 
407.30 

o'erreach  255.19 

o'ertop  171.27 

offer  69.23 

oft  255.27   384.1 

often  16.30 

ointments  241.26 

old  182.20   234.37 

oldest  278.23 


243.6 

187. 
247.23 
277.3 
321.9 


321.13 
3 


16.17 
234.13 
255.27 


Parthian  243.16 
partial  299.3   373.27 
passed  16.12 
passes  172.30 
past  279.31 

2   241.35     pastime  173.10 

247.24        pastor  16.14 
278.21       path  47.9 

321.15        patience  76.28 
patient  313.21 
patriot ' s  15.4 
pause  46.21 
pawn  279.5 
peace  15.20   313.11 
peaceful  15.1 
pearls  255.30 
pebble  62.7   255.23 
Penichook  375.6 
225.3   255.24     pent  225.6 
perch  242.7 
279.16   279.28        perchance  247.19   267.14 
perennial  186.22 
172.2   229.3       perfumes  201.16 
234.17   247.21      Peterborough  Hills  170.23 
297.12   384.1       petty  15.11 

Phaeton  103.15 
phalanx  320.30 
philosophers  170.25 
Phlegethon  278.16 
pierless  16.12 
pilgrim' s  173.5 
pillow  321.7   384.1 
pimple  75.28 
pine  313.21 


Olympian  408.6 

pines  234.9   235.9 

once  243.18   244.10   277 

7 

110.10 

pinions  243.25 

one  15.5   17.13   76.3   76.12 

pins  103.27 

163.22   171.4   171.23 

173 

.11 

pioneer  172 . 33 

178.13   241.32   276.7 

277 

.1 

pity  7.14 

277.12   302.26   303.1 

303 

.3 

place  47.16   187.2   255.2 

330.14   332.23 

places  242.27 

only  182.17   201.16   240 

12 

plain  267.19 

240.20   276.11   298.26 

plainly  17.3   70.5 

open  276.9   330.15 

planet  321.15   390.5 

opportunities  267.20 

plans  70.8 

opposes  332.22 

planted  235.8 

oracle  104.6 

play  7.25   244.6 

orient  313.32   373.29 

pleasure  171.14 

Orion  241.5 

Pleiades  241.6 

other's  276.31 

plot  75.27 

ourselves  267.11 

pluck  243.26 

outcircling  170.25 

plucked  410.31 

outdoors  75.25 

plucking  242.10 

outline  278.24 

plundered  243.30 

outskirts  42.15 

Plutarch  320.20   320.22 

outward  313.6 

ply  188.16 

overflow  255.20 

poem  365. 30 

overnight  172.9 

poet- 16.29 

overtop  321.8 

poetry  184.24 

owlet  229.21 

poets  10.23 

own  69.32   76.18   76.19 

76. 

19 

Poet's  366.1 

241.16   276.8   276.18 

279 

.6 

ponders  279.20 

351.4   415.29   415.30 

Ponkawtasset  16.27 

pace  47.15   151.30 

pool  321.12 

Pacific  180.17 

poor  366.7 

packed  313.5 

port  152.10   279.29 

page  171.31   172.17   320 

.17 

ports  276.11 

pain  244.14 

Postmaster-General  180.19 

paints  313.14 

pottery  331.12 

pale  17.15 

pour  86.20 

paled  17.7 

precept  16.11 

panoply  240.32 

precipices  242.27 

parcel  276.20   410.1 

predestinated  76.14 

parent  62.11 

prepare  321 . 3 

404.8 


267.18 


present  267.14   267.14 
press  171.9 
pretense  276.12 
pride  69.29   234.9 
prime  182.17 
primeval  171.20 
princes  279 . 3 
privacies  182.11 
private  299.4   299.4 
prize  15.17 
promise  188.18 
propagate  75.23 
proper  320.19 
prospect  15.20 
prove  103.23   151.26 
Province  15.11 
pulp  408.4 
pulse  255.31 
pure  275.7 
purling  62.7 
pursue  331.12 
put  17.10   "244 
pyre  171.35 
quarantine  152.10 
quite  276.26   321. 
rabble  410.16 
race  404.7   407.29 
radiance  17.15 
radii  103.28 
rain  170.27 
rainy  234.34 
raise  267.12 
ran  181.30 
random  331.12 
range  17.2   132.1 
rare  255.23   277.24 
rather  243.26 
ray  16.29   103.17 

171.26   224.27 

313.16 
rays  172.5   303.3 
reach  200.19   255.22 

278.19 
reached  50.19 
read  17.6  320.16 
readily  7.17 
reads  279.22 
ready  76.8 

Rear  Admiral  Van  178.11 
reason  332.22 
receive  186.27 
red  235.7   320.29 
redeem  411.1 
reft  277.18 
regrets  415.30 
rehearse  186.14 
reins  244.3 
relation  275.9 
release  15.18 
remain  267.20 
remember  54.28 
remembrance  277 
remnant  172.27 
remotest  172.22 
renown  15.4 
repair  187.12 
repairs  313.8 
repeat  277.5 
reposing  171.28 
reproach  42.12 
resound  277.14 
resounded  240.17 
respect  276.30 
respectable  7.6 


321.18 

163.22 
302.26   313.11 

276.31 


320.22 


242.3 

172.23 
.7 


277.17 


rest 


93 


sorrel 


rest  151.29   186.27   242.17 

retired  224.30 

retreat  46.31 

returns  184.21 

revel  407.30 

revolutions  276.23 

rich  320.21 

richer  15.8   278.31   320.18 

richest  229.12 

richness  321.18 

rides  152.10 

rife  410.30 

right  172.10 

rill  15.32   62.6 

rills  170.22 

ring  187.6   277.11 

ringeth  50.8 

rings  50.18 

ripen  404.9 

ripple  234.25 

rippling  247.21 

rise  302.20   302.30   366.2 

riseth  46.11 

rising  229. 22 

river  234.8   234.35 

rivers  188.19   201.8   201.15 

road  173.6 

roar  279.28 

rob  373.29 

rock  320.31 

rocks  7.21   62.12 

roll  103.26 

rolling  321.14 

Roman  15.28 

Romes  15.26 

rood  70.3 

root  47.13   410.21 

roots  408.4   410.7 

roses  244.10 

round  17.15   62.7   170.20   186.25 

244.4   321.17 
rout  410.16 
routed  186.31 
row  188.21 
rowed  200.19 
ruled  16.10 
ruler  241.30 
rumored  279.2 
Rumors  184.14 

run  171.5   225.1   242.25   404.7 
rung  46.25   50.15 
running  171.13   241.24   244.15 
rustle  234.24 
rustling  276.24   404.16 
sacred  16.11 
sad  241.5   277.7 
sadness  183.12 
sail  171.9   255.26   297.24 
sailed  16.4   255.27 
sailing  170.27   279.27 
Saint  42.10 
sake  47.10 
Salmon  Brook  375.5 
saloon  297.15 
same  15.23 
save  229.4 
saw  244.11 
says  242.1 
scarcely  278.21 
scattered  321.11 
scenery  253.2 
scent  46.26   201.16 
scented  277.22 
scheme  69.2  5 


scoff  76.23 

scoffer  69.24 

scorching  103.22 

scorn  255.26 

scrupulous  255.21 

sea  229.13   234.14   255.26 

255.29   278.17   279.14   279.24 

297.12 
search  15.29 
seas  152.6   152.13   171.25 

201.15   229.19 
seat  171.11 
seaward  279.21 
secret  186.10   332.22 
see  17.3   17.10   171.2   182.2 

186.31   241.35   276.10   276.19 

302.28   321.3   321.14   366.2 

390.5   410.31   416.3 
seeing  243.17 
seek  279.17   366.11 
seem  171 . 11 
seemed  47.5   276.31 
seems  172.6   229.6   234.8 
seer  103.18 
selfsame  62.8 
send  279.4   373.28 
Senegal  225.2 
sense  276.15 

sent  171.1   225.4   241.28 
September  62.9 
sere  404.12 
serenity  229.23 
serpent  244.19 
serve  276.11 
service  241.33 
set  46.9   171.2   297.20 
settled  16.29 
seventy  76.4 
shadow  242.15   302.22 
Shakespeare  321.1 
Shakespeare's  320.21   320.23 
shaking  321.20 
shallow  152.6 
shame  172.34   321.21 
shell  255.23 
shelters  267.8 
shepherd  16.8   16.20 
shields  243.8 
shine  16.30   17.8   103.31 
shining  16.32   241.7 
ship  151.28   373.28 
ships  171.4   224.28   241.18 
shoes  321.8 
shone  171.3  3 
shoots  410.10 
shore  16.13   47.18   152.11   170.30 

229.4   234.20   235.9   255.25 

255.31   279.2   279.30   384.2 

416.1 
shores  229.16   278.19   278.28 
short  410.19 
shortly  321.4 
should  54.28   104.5   151.26 

186.21   242.5   242.30   351.4 
show  321.21 
shower  321.3 
shown  15.28   278.28 
shows  276.22 
shroud  47.2 
shrouds  171.7 
shuddering  103.20 
shun  47.18 
shut  3  21.9 
sickly  75.29 


side  47.12   234.10   276.9 
sides  243.14 
sigh  7.9   234.26   299.5 
sight  17.7   46.11   182.2 

297.21   372.7 
silence  170.21 
silent  47.3   62.11   313.19 

314.3 
sill  172.8 
silver  16.31   103.24   103.28 

172.1   172.18   240.30 
Silver  240.29   375.11 
silvery  50.9 

simple  75.27   76.30   200.22 
simplest  277.2 
sin  62.14   75.23   276.12 
since  15.22   16.4   16.27   42.14 

180.21   200.18 
sinful  184.18 
sing  240.9   240.10   240.15 

277.9 
single  182.12   277.6 
sings  240.20 
sing'st  241.14 
sink  152.13   278.29 
sinks  321.16 
sits  279.19 
skies  47.2   170.30   186.25 

276.24   314.5   366.4 
skill  302.31   321.6 
skillful  244.7 
skulking  170.31 
sky  17.2   46.8   172.27   173.8 

184.30   186.29   229.6   267.12 

297.16   297.26   321.4 
slant  172.5 
slave  70.4   242.4 
sleep  242.18 
sleeping  234.22   244.12 
sleeps  41.5 
sleet  170.27 
slender  103.21 
slight  243.19 
slightest  279.23 
slope  47.11 
slow  62.15 
slowly  229.1 
small  314.4 
smiles  278.30 
smite  244.25 
smiting  241.20 
smooth  15  2.5 
smoother  255.2  3 
smoothest  47.16 
smothered  278.15 
smothers  62.13 
snivel  7.13 
snow  234.31 
soar  297.28 
society  172.25 
soft  242.32 
soft-pinioned  229.21 
soil  279.6 
sold  241.31 
sole  255.21 
solid  171.29 
solitary  16.13 

sometimes  255.19   255.20   302.24 
somewhat  70.10 
song  76.32   229.22   241.32 

247.22 
soon  50.17   411.1 
sooth  302.18 
sorrel  410.8 


94 


tides 


sorrow  75.32   277 
sought  15.17 
Souhegan  2  34.37 
Souhegan ' s  234.10 
soul  75.29   75.31 
sound  7.16   17.11 

170.21   182.1 
soundeth  50.17   2 
sounds  50.4   240. 
source  201.8 
space  171.25 
Spanish  152.9 
sparrow  200.20 
speak  279.25 
spear-heads  186.2 
spears  186.32   24 
special  172.23 
spend  111.3   373. 
sphere  70.9   103. 
spheres  187.6   27 
spirit  41.6   172. 

267.13   275.9 
spirits  15.3   234 

415.25 
spite  172.17 
spoil  103.29   332 
spoke  50.11 
spokes  103.22   10 
spot  15.16 
spray  200.20   229 
spread  16.17   201 
sprightly  267.17 
spring  86.23   366 
springing  188.20 
springs  186.21 
sprite  41.6 
stacks  171.29 
staff  242.24 
stanchions  171.24 
stand  15.31   47.2 

172.12   234.9 

410.23 
standest  172.25 
stands  151.28   17 
stanza'd  200.22 
star  17.14   46.12 
star-poetry  17.6 
starry  187.4 
stars  7.22   16.31 

241.4 
startling  47.4 
station  275.10 
stay  255.20 
stays  297.19 
steadied  173.11 
steady  76.7 
stealthy  234.21 
steed  151.29 
steeds  103.30 
steeple  50.8   50. 
steer  47.19   103. 
stem  321.14   410. 
stems  410.15 
steps  255.19 
stern  276.30 
stiff  171.21 
still  16.28 


151.28 

172.5 

186.18 

267.19 

297.24 

375.13 


47.' 
151.30 
172.17 
200.20 
277.23 
366.7 
375.16 


stilly  276.22 


.15 

sting  244.22 
stirs  170.24   234.15 
stock  171.22   411.1 
stone  15.24 

take  47.9   76.27   171.14   242.25 

330.14   416.8 
taken  76.22   276.25 
taking  243.24 

76 

.13 

313.29 

stood  15.21 

tale  16.20 

50 

.6 

75.29 

stoop  267.12 

talkative  242.20 

229. 

3   321.19 

store  373.27 

tardy  255.19 

34.37 

storied  62.7 

tare  277.19 

11   ■ 

416. 

,5 

stormed  276.14 
straight  187.3 
strain  277.11   277.14 
strains  183.13 

targe  320.19 
tarry  242.4 
taste  86.23 
tastes  242.13 

strand  255.26   255.28   279.19 

teas  152.9   152.14 

straw  410.9 

teeth  24  3.2 

9 

stray  320.17 

tell  186.12   187.10   321.1 

3.9 

stream  15.5   16.7   16.28 
streamed  313.26 

62.11 

temples  330.15 
tender  410.25 

26 

streams  278.15   313.17 

tendest  331.10 

20 

strength  7.21   15.15   170.19 

Teneriffe  278.27 

7.9 

171.19   276.10   276.17 

Tereus  243.28 

35 

201. 

,15 

stretching  313.28   416.4 
strife  184.17   276.14 

than  15.8   70.10   75.30   163.22 
186.16   227.4   242.21   277.16 

.16 

247.26 

strings  240.13 

278.16   302.31   321.6 

strive  47.7   70.6 

that's  17.5 

strivings  410.1 

Thebes  241.14 

.23 

stroll  255.17 
stronghold  276.8 

thee  54.28   172.23   172.37 

242.19   243.22   243.24   244.2 

3.24 

struggling  320.31 
stubble  229.22 

331.13 
theirs  408.3 

.19 

studied  17.5 

themselves  311.13 

.10 

321.5 

stuffs  229.12 

therefore  183.12 

stung  242.28   244.12   244.19 

Thermopylae  54.29 

.9 

subject  277.10 
substance  16.9 
subtile  276.21 
sullen  279.28 

they're  410.30 
they've  255.27 
thicken  75.28 
thin  321.11 

summer  7.10   46.32   229. 

19   240.24 

thing  242.8 

267.16   276.21   303.1 

303.4 

things  16.5   46.23   76.12 

314.7   366.8 

313.8   415.23 

2   111.4   170.19 

summer's  170.28 

think  244.24   255.27 

267. 

19 

408.5 

sun  17.8   17.15   50.19 

103.31 

Thinking  75.23 

224.32   225.4   229.11 

229.20 

thinned  411.1 

297.33   302.20   303.3 

313.17 

thither  184.21 

2.32 

314.6   321.21   404.6 
Sun  171.2 
Sundays  303.2 
sun-dust  229.15 
sung  46.24   366.8 

thou  47.8   47.12   111.4   111.4 
172.33   173.3   234.36   235.2 

240.22  241.2   241.14   241.23 
241.25   242.20   242.33   243.22 

243.23  243.24   243.30   244.5 

17 

.7 

186.29 

sunrise  188.19 
suns  17.9 
sun's  247.23 
sunset  188.22 
superior  275.10 
surely  242.33 
surf  229.16 
survive  186.20 
swallow  240.22   243.23 
Swallow  240.21   243.21 
swear  70.3 

244.7   297.25   331.10   331.10 

331.12 
though  17.7   17.9   46.10   69.27 

70.2   151.26   152.1   242.3 

276.27   277.22   302.21 
•   thought  46.16   172.21 
thoughts  184.30   320.17 
three  17.4 

three  thousand  267.10   267.15 
through  46.18   170.27   170.28 

171.25   172.16   172.28   183.13 

16 

sweep  18  3.13 

242.26   302.28   313.17   313.26 

30 

sweet  186.17   229.2   241 

.26 

thrushes  46.24 

25 

375.7   416.5 
sweeter  186.19 
swells  321.10 
swift  180.18   242.26 
swiftly  151.30   242.23 

thus  15.3   247.19   297.31 
411.1 

thy  46.9   46.15   46.16   46.18 
46.30   47.2   47.6   47.10 
47.14   54.29   54.29   111.3 

62 

.15 

69.29 

swiftness  243.1 

172.26   173.6   173.7   173.10 

170 

.29 

171.27 

swimming  24  3.3 

173.10   173.12   183.13   229.23 

184. 

25 

184.28 

swung  50.14 

235.7   235.9   240.24   241.27 

234 

.19 

267.16 

sylvan  47.22 

243.25   243.27   243.29   244.8 

278 

.23 

279.21 

sympathize  2  7  7.1 

247.21   297.15   297.27   331.11 

366. 

9 

566.13 

sympathy  277.24   299.3 
table  408.2 
taint  42.11 

299.6 

331.13 
thyself  173.8 
tides  255.22 

tied 


95 


wind 


tied  410.1 

till  152.4   313.11   313.25   320.28 

410.28 
timber  171.20 
time  186.13   187.2   188.21   224.26 

267.9   267.13   410.28   416.7 
Time  7.20   171.17   181.30   410.13 
times  278.25 
tinkling  62.8 
tire  103.22   103.24 
tis  186.17 
titmen  408.1 

together  234.33   303.2   410.2 
toil  70.1   184.17   229.15   276.14 
told  16.20   235.1   313.27 
tolleth  50.16 
to-morrow  76.2 
tongue  24  3.27 
took  16.27 
torrent  183.12 
torrents  242.26 
tourneying  187.8 
towards  76.28 
tower  50.19 
town  15.2 
toy  172.9   276.7 
tracts  173.4 
trade  171.23 
tragedy  76.3   277.13 
Tragicant  225.2 
trained  297.32 
transfix  299.2 
transparent-winged  229.20 
transpired  180.21 
travelers  17.1 
tread  184.29   234.21   277.6 
treading  241.11 
trees  46.28   172.11   242.7   313.13 

313.27  321.17 
trip  47.14 
triumph  18  3.13 
triumphal  234.12 
trod  42.15 
tropic  224.32 
Troy  241.15 
Troy  town  320.25 

true  76.15   172.31   187.9   275.7 

297.28  320.22 
truest  277.23 
truly  279.17 
trust  298.25 
truth  372.9 
tuft  321.7 

tumultuous  62.6   170.21 
tune  62.8 

turn  75.25   244.3   320.30   384.1 

404.11 
turning  240.30 
'tween  172.32 
twigs  314.4 
twilight  16.30   314.1 
twine  152.7   152.14 
'twixt  320.17 
tyrant  241.30 
unappropriated  171.19 
unawares  276.25 
unbended  69.29 
unbought  15.15 
uncalled  313.11 
unchanging  313.16 
unclouded  173.4 
unconverted  42.10 
undecaying  416.6 
under  47.6   50.14   171.9   172.36 


under  (cont.)  224.32   404.9 

undescended  69.30 

undisputed  103.18 

undone  76.21 

unhewn  171.20 

uninquiring  227.3 

united  303.3 

universe  75.30   299.5 

unkind  151.26 

unknown  16.15 

unless  320.23 

unmeasured  267.7 

unnatural  75.24 

unseen  410.19 

unsold  15.15 

unsung  184.24 

until  62.9   170.30 

unto  76.16   103.20   278.26   279.4 

untold  171.10   182.18 

untrodden  279.2 

unwonted  103.25 

upholding  173.9 

use  298.27   321.6 

useless  277.19 

usher  200.21 

utter  365.31 

vain  15.1   15.29   313.9   366.2 

366.3   410.1 
vale  172.22   184.15 
valor  15.19 
vast  170.26 
venture  171 . 1 
ventures  279.31 
venturous  172.35 
Venus  244.16 
verge  182.2   279.16 
verse  186.16 
vesper  184.28 
vessel  152.1   279.27 
vessels  172.13 
victorious  276.13 
victory  276.17 
view  255.30 
viewed  16.16 
vigorous  16.10 
vines  241.8 

violets  201.12   321.8   410.7 
virtue  69.26   76.32   184.19 

277.21 
Virtue  184.25 
virtue ' s  276. 6 
visible  229.13 
voice  50.10 
vow  330.15 
voyageurs  188.21 
voyageur ' s  234.6 
Vulcan  240.31 
vulgar  54.30 
Wachusett  172.24 
wades  201.14 
waft  241.25 
wagons  241.4 
wags  180.22 
wait  320.28   366.10 
wakes  15.2 
walk  47.15 
walking  242.23 
walks  41.5 
walls  276.11 
walnut  320.24 
wander  235.5 
want  182.19 
warm  184.23 
waste  410.17 


wasted  241.17 

Watatic  Hill  172.7 

water  50.13   86.19   234.19 

water-lilies  47.20 

waters  247.21   375.7 

water-snake  242.28 

wave  186.22 

waved  46.28 

Waves  62.13   229.1   234.15 

247.24   255.19   255.30   278.22 

375.10   384.2 
waving  234.13 
way  16.27   103.16   172.16 

277.6  410.3 
ways  366.5 
weak  277.18 
weal  299.4 

wealth  7.18   366.6   373.26 

wearied  247.25 

wearing  267.18 

wears  313.6 

weary  7.23 

weather  234.34   303.4   410.6 

weavest  240.24 

weaveth  240.27 

weeds  410.15 

ween  302.19 

weeping  76.6 

weigh  224.28 

weight  171.10 

welcome  46.28 

well  184.27   186.10   244.1 

244.15   321.10   321.13 
wells  17.6 
well-tempered  173.7 
went  276.17   276.19 
wert  47.8   47.12 
west  50.7   172.4 
West  173.2 
western  171.27   180.16   278.26 

366.3 
Western  171.15   171.23   172.33 
westward  171.5 
wet  7.15 
we've  200.19 
whate'er  180.21 
whatever  47.9 
wheat  277.20 
whence  224.32   241.23   241.23 

241.24 
where  7.7   15.27   47.20   76.12 

76.22  '172.5   184.16   201.12 

234.5   267.13   276.19   314.4 

320.18 
where'er  313.19 
wherein  15.6 
wheresoe'er  276.16 
whether  76.23   152.7   279.20 
whetting  111.3 
while  46.23   47.1   171.26 

187.7  277.1   320.24   408.4 
411.6 

whisper  7.8 

whispers  330.15   332.22 

whither  17.14   331.13 

who'd  103.16   103.19 

why  76.24   242.5   243.29 

wide  16.17   47.11   410.4 

wild  86.22   242.8   321.5 

willow  234.26 

willows  247.23 

win  15.3 

wind  46.31   50.15   180.16 

234.15   321.10   321.19   366.10 


windeth 


96 


windeth  172.16 

winding  47.18 

windows  172.29 

winds  225.6 

wine  152.8   152.14   242.13 

wing  297.11 

winged  244.20 

wings  242.16   242.32 

winter  7.10   240.25   404.15 

winter's  170.28   313.18 

wisdom  243.5 

wise  16.29   76.7   277.3 

Wise  298.26   298.28 

wish  240.9   240.10   243.22   243.24 

wishes  46.18 

wisp  410.9 

wit  171.31 

withered  404.16   410.28 

withheld  276.30 

within  224.27   243.27   276.10 

313.29   314.3   366.7   404.14 

404.15 
without  42.12   47.13   172.25 

173.5   229.22   234.23   234.25 

276.23   366.6   410.7 
woe  299.4   410.29 
woman  24  3.6 


Women  242.34 

won  17.2   297.31 

wood  76.13   313.17   314.3 

wooden  375.12 

woods  277.14   366.13   404.14 

woody  242.27 

wooed  182.20 

wooes  182.20 

woof  229.11 

word  279.25 

work  76.20   76.27   76.31   351.4 

works  276.23 

world  103.17   171.24   180.22 

worm  152.2   152.12 

worse  75. 30 

worship  76.2  3 

worth  15.14   15.28   76.5   103.21 

182.19 
worthy  17  3.12 
wounded  244.13 
Wounded  244.9 
woven  229.12 
wrecks  279.30 
writ  171.30   365.30 
Xanthus  235.4 
yawning  243.2 
ye  15.25   69.23   69.24   69.26 


ye  (cont.)  70.2   70.5   70.7 

170.19   170.20   170.22   170.30 

171.1  171.5   171.11   171.14 
171.17   171.18   171.27   178.12 
186.10   186.12   186.14   186.25 
186.27   186.29   186.30   277.14 
278.29   279.2   375.7   416.1 

year  103.31   247.20   321.6 

411.2  415.27   415.27 
yearly  240.23 

years  163.22   267.10   267.15 

279.31   372.8 
ye'll  278.31 
yellow  404.12 
yields  277.16   410.18 
yonder  15.21   46.14   1 

172.17  313.15   320. 
young  182.20   184.23 
your  69.27   69.28   70. 

76.27   76.27   151.27 

170.29  171.7   171.1 

171.18  172.16   172. 

278.30  279.4   279.6 

416.3  416.6   416.8 
youth  184.23   276.15 
youthful  16.14   62.14   267.18 
zephyrs  46.17 


71 

.28 

30 

8 

76. 

27 

170. 

19 

5 

171 

.16 

22 

186.10 

375. 

10 

APPENDIX  D:   ETHICS,  PHILOSOPHY,  AND  RELIGION 


Abelard 

ablutions 

Abraham 

absolute 

Adam 

almighty 

angels 

apostles 

apotheosis 

apotheosized 

Arch-Fiend 

Aristotle 

atheist 

authority  65.31   71.7 

Babylon 

Bhagvat  Gheeta 

bible 

bishop 

blaspheme 

bless 

Brahm 

brother  120.10   141.31 

302.5 
Buddha 
Canaan 
catechism 
celestial 
Chaldaean 
charity 
cherubim 
Christ 
church 
conscience 
created 
creed 

crucifixion 
Culluca  Bhatta 
Dandamis 
Daniel 
death 
deluge 
destiny 
devil 


devotional 

Dherma  Sastra 

die 

divine 

doctrine 

duty 

earth 

essence  141 . 22 

eternal 

ethics 

Eve 

evil 

exist 

faith 

fall  42.9   78.25   220.5 

237.3   311.18 
fatal 
Father 
future 
Genesis 
God 

gospel 

Gymno sophists 
heaven 
Hebrew 
Heloise 
heresy 
Hindoo 
holy 

Holy  Ghost 
Holy  Sepulchre 
hymns 
idols 

immortality 
Isaac 
I s  a  i  ah 
Jacob 
Jehovah 
Jerusalem 
Jesus 
Jew 

John  Eliot 
Jonah 


Joseph  Wolff 

Koran 

Kreeshna  Dwypayen  Veias 

Laws  of  Menu 

Leucippus 

libation 

Life  of  Christ 

Lord's  (own  people 

51.2);  (Mona-day  67.2) 

Mahabharat 

Maker 

Mencius 

Menu 

metamorphosis 

minister  76.34   77.23 

268.17 
miracle 
moral 
mortal 

mortification 
Moses 

Mt .  Calvary 
New  Testament 
Occidental 
oriental 
paradise  198.10 
philosopher 
pilgrim 
Plato 

Pneumatologists 
pray 
priests 
prophets 
Protestants 
psalm 
pulpit 
Puritan 
Pythagoras 
redemption 
religion 
Sabbath 
sacred 
saint 


scripture 

seer 

sermon 

Socrates 

spirit 

sublime  74.19   159.21 

supernatural 

Supreme  Being 

Swedenborg 

temple 

Theists 

theogeny 

theology 

Tree  of  Knowledge 

Twelfth  Church  of  Christ 

unbaptized 

universe 

Vedas 

Virgin 

Vishnu  Purana 

Wandering  Jew 

Wicklif fe 

Zoroaster 


APPENDIX  E:   LANGUAGE,  STYLE,  AND  LITERATURE 


97 


accents 
Actear ium 
Alcaeus 
Anacreon 
ante-Chaucerian 
anthologies 
Antigone 
artisan 
artist 
Aubrey 
author 

autobiography 
bard 

beauty  40. 31   58.21 
58.24   59.10   107.18 

111.19  142.8   183.4 

239.20  239.23  239.28 
362.28  363.25  400.15 
403.1   403.10 

Ben  Jonson 
biography 
Boccaccio 
book 
Bruce 
Burns 
Calidas 

Canterbury  Tales 
chapters  106 . 31 
Chateaubriand 
Chaucer 

Chronicle  of  Bernaldez 
chronicles 
circumlocution 
classic 
comment 
communicate 
composed  58.14 
composition  351.18 
concentrate  400.1 
consistency  105.30 
consistent  333.8 
construction  331.17 
conversation 
correct  400.4 
corresponding  109.9 
created  231.22 
critical  105.23   162.11 
criticism 
critics  148.21 
Dante 
Day  Book 

describe  347.10   348.1 
377.5 


described  331.17 
describes  94.12 
descriptions  348.3 

347.16 
dialect 
dictionary 
discipline  108.29 
discourse  105.28 
Donne 

Dr.  Johnson 
drama 
Drayton 
Dryden 

Duan  of  Ca-Lodin 
elegance 
emphasis 
epitaph 
essays 
Evelyn ' s 
express 
fable 
fiction 
Fillan 
Fingal 
form  94.2   149.29 

365.28   386.21   400.16 
Francis  Beaumont 
Franklin  ABenjamin7 
Fuller 
genius  97.29   98.5 

99.26      105.9      149.1 

149.3      149.6      329.4 

329.23   339.27 

350.3-14   364.7 

364.15   397.22   397.28 

398.20   399.21   401.1 

402.28 
Gentilesse 
Gesner 

gifts  364.24 
Goethe ' s 
Gower 

graces  109.17 
Graces 
Gray 

Greek  Minor  Poets 
Greeks 
Griselda 
Haf  iz 

harmony  97.27   195.30 
Heetopades  of  Veeshnoo 

Sarma 
Helen 


Herbert 
hero-bard 
Herodotus 
Hesiod 

hieroglyphics  61.19 
Homer 
Horace 

Hussein  Effendi 
Ibraham  Pasha 
Ibycus 
Iliad 
images 
imagination 
inspire 
instinct 
intellect 
Ismene 
Jamblichus 
Josselyn 
journals  354.9 
Juvenal 

Kalendar ium  Hortense 
King  Creon 
language 
laurel 
literary 
literature 
lyric 
MacRoine 
Marvell 
Menander 
metaphorical 
Milton 
muse 

narrative 

natural  95.11   106.28 
330.5   337.14   393.18 

395.16  395.28   400.6 

412.17  412.31 
ode 

Oivana 

Ossian 

Paradise  Lost 

Persius 

Petrarch 

Pilgrim ' s  Progress 

Pindar 

Plutarch 

poem 

Polynices 

Prioress ' s 

prosaic  399.28 

prose 


Provence 

Pylians 

Rasselas 

read 

Reve 

rhyme 

rhythm 

runic 

Sadi 

Sanskrit 

satire 

Scamander 

scholar 

Scott ' s 

sentence 

Shakespeare 

Simonides 

Sir  James  Clark  Ross 

Sir  William  Jones 

Sir  Thomas  Browne 

sonnets 

Sophocles 

Spectators 

style 

sublime  149.26 

Sylva 

Tasso ' s 

Teian 

Testament  of  Love 

Thomas  Fuller 

Timias 

tragedy  118.5 

unities 

Varro 

verse 

Virgil 

volume  94.2   238.15 

419.29 
volumes  60.27 
Walter  Raleigh 
Walton 

Wilhelm  Meister 
words 

Wordsworth 
works 
writer 
Xanthus 


APPENDIX  F:   TOPOGRAPHY 

Abol jacknagesic  /RiverJ 

Agiocochook 

Amoskeag  /River? 

Assabet  River 

Babboo suck- Brook 

Baker ' s  River 

Ball's  Hill 

bank 

basin 

bay 

beaches 

beaver-dams 

Beaver  River 

Bedford 

Belknap 

Bellow  Falls 

Bennington 


Berwick 

Bilberry 

Billerica 

Billerica  Falls 

Billerica  dam 

birch 

Biscuit  Brook 

bluffs 

Bradford 

Brenton 

Bristol 

brook 

bulrushes 

Bunker  Hill 

burdock 

bushes 

button  bush 


button  woods 

cactus 

calamint 

Cambridge 

Camden 

camping  ground 

canal 

cape 

Carlisle 

Carlisle  Bridge 

Catskills 

Chain  Bridge 

Chelmsford 

cliffs 

clover 

Cohass  Brook 

Cohasset 


Conantum  . 

Concord 

cones 

Contoocook  /River/ 

Coos  Falls 

Coppermine  River 

copses 

copse  wood 

corn  fields 

coves 

crags 

Cranberry  Island 

Cromwell 

Cromwell's  Falls 

Crooked  River 

dams 

Deerfield  River 


APPENDIX  F:   TOPOGRAPHY  (CONT.) 


98 


Derwent 

dogwood 

Dracut 

Dunstable 

evergreen 

Fair-Haven  Bay 

falls 

Falls  of  Amoskeag 

fields 

foliage 

Fort  Niagara 

fowl-meadow 

Fox  Island 

Framingham 

Franconia 

fruit  trees 

Goff's  Falls 

Gof f stown 

Goffstown  Mountain 

goldenrods 

Grape  Island 

grape-vine 

Great  Bend 

Great  Nesenkeag  Brook 

Griffith's  Falls 

Groton 

groves 

gum  tree 

Hallidon  Hill 

Hampstead 

Haverhill 

hay 

hemlock 

herbs 

hibiscus 

Highlands  of  Neversink 

hills 

hillock 

honeysuckle 

Hooksett 

Hooksett  Falls 

Hooksett  Pinnacle 

Hoosack  Mountain 

hop-fields 

Hopkinton 

Hopkinton  Pond 

Horseshoe  Interval 

houstonia 

huckleberries 

juniper 

Kat  tree 

Kearsarge  /Mount] 


lagoons 

Lake  Huron 

lakes 

Lake  Winnipeg 

laurel 

Lawrence 

ledges 

Ledyard 

Lexington 

lichens 

lilies 

limes 

Lincoln  frown  of] 

linden 

Litchfield 

Lovewe 1 1  Town 

Lowe  1 1 

Lydgate 

Mad  /River/ 

Malvern  Hills 

Manchester 

maples 

Marlborough 

marshes 

Massabesic  Lake 

Massabesic  Pond 

McGaw' s  Island 

Meadow  River 

meadows 

meads 

melons 

Michilimackinac 

Middlesex 

mills 

Monadnock  /Mount? 

Moore  Falls 

Moose-hillock 

moss-bed 

mountains 

Mt.  Ktaadn 

Mt.  Saber 

Musketaquid  /River? 

musquash 

Namaskeak  /River? 

Nashua  /River/ 

Nashville  /Village^ 

Naticook  Brook 

Nesenkeag  /stream/ 

Neville's  Cross 

New  Concord 

Newbury 

Newfound  Lake 


Nine  Acre  Corner 

North  Adams 

North  Bridge 

oaks 

orchard 

Ottaway  /River? 

Otternic  Pond 

pasture -ground 

Pawtucket  /canal.  Dam, 

Fa  1 1  sj 
peaks 

peat-meadows 
Pelham 

Pembroke  /Town? 
Pemigewasset  /River? 
Penobscot  /RiverJ 
picker el -weed 
Piscataquoag  /River? 
plains 
Plaistow 
plantain 
plum 

Plum  Island 
Plymouth 
ponds 

Ponkawtasset 
Poplar  Hill 
poppy 
potherbs 
promontory 
Rabbit  Island 
raspberries 
Read ' s  Ferry 
reeds 
rivers 
rocks 
roses 
rye 

Saddle-back  Mountain 
Salmon  Brook 

sand  /banks,  bars,  hillsy 
Sandy  Hook 
sapling 
sap-wood 
shad  blossom 
Shelburne  Falls 
Sherman's  Bridge 
slippery-elm 
Smith ' s   River 
soapwort  gentian 
Soucook  /River/ 
Souhegan  /RiverJ 


South  Adams 

Southborough 

spruce 

squashes 

straw 

strawberries 

stumps 

Sturgeon  River 

Sudbury 

Sudbury  River 

sugar  cane 

sugar  maple 

summack 

summit 

sunflower 

table-land 

tansies 

thistle 

Thornton ' s  Ferry 

toadstool 

topography 

trees 

trumpet-weed 

Tyngsborough 

Uncannunuc  Mountains 

vales 

valleys 

vegetation 

verbena 

vines 

violets 

Wachusset 

Wachusset  Mountain 

water-lilies 

waterfalls 

watermelons 

weeds 

weeping  willow 

weirs 

Westborough  Swamp 

West  ford  /Town  of7 

wheatf ields 

White  Mountains 

Wicasuck  Falls 

Wicasuck  Island 

wild-apple 

Williamstown 

Windham 

Winnipiseogee  /Lake/ 

witch-hazel 

woodland  lots 

woods 


APPENDIX  G:   MYTHOLOGY  AND  HISTORY 


Abner 

aboriginal 

Achilles 

Acropolis 

Aeacus 

Aegean 

Aeneas 

Aeolus 

Aeolian  Harp 

Agassiz 

Alcaeus 

Alexander 

Alpheus 

Alwakidis 

Amazon 

ambrosia 

American  Indians 

Amos 


Anchises 

Astoria  City 

antediluvian 

Apollo 

Appian 

Arabia 

Arabian  /chronicles; 

Nights] 
Arabic 
Arcadia 
Arethuse 
Argonauts 
Ariadne 
Ar isteus 
Ar joon 
Arthur ' s 
Astoria  City 
Astraea 


Athenians 

Attic 

Aulus  Perseus  Flaccus 

Aurora 

Bacchantes 

Bacchus 

Bagdat 

Baiae 

Banquet  of  Xenophon 

barbarian 

Bashpish 

Battus 

Black  Prince 

Bokhara 

Boreas 

Botta 

Braddock 

Briareus 


Caleb  Harriman 

Capt .  David  McLary 

Capt.  John  Smith 

Capt.  Lovewe 11 

Carnac 

Carthage 

Cato ' s 

Celtic 

Charles  Wilkins 

Charon 

Chippeway 

Colchian  Dragon 

Col.  George  Reid 

Columbus 

Confucius 

Constance 

Corybantes 

Cromwell 


APPENDIX  G:   MYTHOLOGY  AND  HISTORY  (CONT.) 


99 


Cumaean  Sibyl 

Cummings 

Cylon 

dark  ages 

Davis 

deities 

demi-god 

demonic 

Democr itus 

Dido 

Diogenes 

Dodona 

Dryads 

Dudleian 

Dunbar  of  Scotland 

Earl  of  Bridgewater 

East  Indian  Company 

Edmund  Halley 

Edward  the  Third 

Edwin  of  Northumbria 

Egypt 

Elbr idge 

Eleazar  Davis 

Elnathan 

Elysian  fields 

Endymion 

Epeians 

Ethiopians 

Etrur ia 

Etruscan 

Eumenides 

Euphemus 

Euphrates 

Eurypulus 

Falkland  Isles 

fauns 

Fort  Niagara 

fossil 

frontiers 

furies 

Gael 

Galileo 

Ganges 

General  Court 

goat  song 

goddess 

godlike 

gods 

golden  age 

Golden  Fleece 

Gookin 

graces 

Great  Spirit 

Hannah  Dustan 

Hannibal 


Haroun  Alraschid 

heathen 

Helius 

Henry 

Hippocrene 

history 

History  of  Concord 

History  of  Dunstable 

Hudson's  Bay  Company 

Iambe 

India 

io 

Ionian 

Iris 

Isis 

Isphaham 

James  K.  Polk 

Jason 

John  Gutenberg 

John  Hogkins 

John  Lovewell 

John  of  Gaunt 

John  Owamosimmin 

John  Stark 

Jonathan  Frye 

Jonathan  Tyng 

Joseph  Hassell 

Josiah  Jones 

Jove 

Juno 

Jupiter 

King  Hary 

King  James 

Latona 

Lavoisier 

Lethe 

Lexington 

Libyan  Cyrene 

Lt.  Farwell 

Linus 

Little  John 

Luxor 

Lycurgus 

Mary  Marks 

Mary  Neff 

Megareans 

Memnon 

Miles  Howard 

Miles  Standish 

Minyas 

Mohawk 

Montaup 

Morzouk 

Mr.  James  Parker 

Mr.  John  Hales 


Mr.  Jorge  Rodunnonukgus 

Mr .  Lund 

Musaeus 

muse 

Mussulman 

mythology 

mythus 

Naiads 

Narcissus 

Nemesis 

Neottia 

Neptune 

Nestor 

Newton 

Nile 

Norman  Conqueror 

Normans 

Nottingham 

nymph 

Oceanides 

Odin 

Oliver  Cromwell 

Olympia 

Olympic  games 

Onesicritus 

Ophir 

oracle 

Oreads 

oriental 

Orpheus 

Osiris 

Ossa 

Ostia 

Pan 

Pantheon 

Parthenon 

Parthian 

Pasha 

Patroclus 

Paugus 

Pelasgic 

Penacook  Indian 

Phaethon 

Pharoah 

Phidias 

Philip ' s  War 

Philyra 

Phoebus 

Poictiers 

primeval 

Prometheus 

Proserpine 

Queen  Semiramis 

Raleigh 

Rhodes 


Richard  Arkwright 

river  gods 

Robert  Boyle 

Robin  Hood 

Robinson  Crusoe 

runes 

Salamis 

Samuel  Lennardson 

Sam  Linus 

Saturn 

satyr 

savage 

Saxon 

scythia 

Shawshine 

Simon  Detogkom 

Sir  James  Clark  Ross 

Sir  Joseph  Banks 

sirens 

Sisyphus 

Solomon 

Solon 

Spaulding 

Styx 

Syracuse 

Tahatawan 

Tamerlane 

Tartar 

Tempe 

Thebes 

Thera 

Timbuctoo 

Titans 

Toahitu 

Trojan  War 

Troy 

Trosachs 

Tuscan 

Tyrrhenian 

Uncannunuc 

Venus 

Wamesit 

Warren  Hastings 

Wawatam 

Webster 

West  Saxons 

William  Holden 

Winandermere 

Windham 

Winthrop 

Xenophon 

Zephyr 

Zeus 


Central  pari  of  Concord  village — from  ].  W.  Barber.  Massachusetts  Historical  Collections,  IR41 


American  Transcendental  Quarterly 

JOURNAL   OF   NEW    ENGLAND   WRITERS 
DRAWER    1080 

w Z\   PART 

TWO 

WINTER, 

1974 

HARTFORD.    CONNECTICUT     06101 

Co^ 


.  Covf 


\.& 


■W^e< 


^e" 


^ 


VJo' 


w« 


,C° 


^e 


,of> 


36 

EMERSON'S  DISCOVERY  OF  THE  ^ 

ENGLISH  ROMANTICS,  1818-1836  stt 

In  the  preface  to  his  anthology  of  poetry,  Parnassus  (1874),   Emerson  describes  "two  classes  of  poets, -- 
the  poets  by  education  and  practice.  .  .and  poets  by  nature."*    Pope  is  the  single  example  of  the  former, 
those  poets  whose  "taste  and  wit"  demand  respect,  but  who  "never  rose  to  grandeur  or  to  pathos."    Of  the 
latter  Emerson  lists  Chaucer,  Shakespeare,  Jonson,  Herbert,  Herrick,  Collins,  and  Burns .    Notably  absent 
from  this  catalogue  are  those  with  whom  Emerson  is  most  often  associated  by  time  or  temperament  or  both, 
the  major  romantic  poets  of  the  19th  century:    Wordsworth,  Coleridge,  Keats,  Shelley,  Byron,  and  Tennyson, 
all  of  whom  Emerson  knew  intimately  before  the  1870' s  and  many  of  whose  poems  are  included  in  his  an- 
thology.   The  fact  is,  Emerson's  favorites  were  the  poets  of  the  17th  century,  particularly  Shakespeare, 
Milton,  and  Herbert.    Surprisingly,  perhaps,  he  did  not  find  among  the  poets  of  his  own  age  even  one  rep- 
resentative of  the  kind  he  most  admired,  who  combined  a  natural  and  simple  style  with  the  religious  ideal- 
ism which  he  embraced. 

Nevertheless,  Emerson  could  not  help  admiring  his  romantic  contemporaries  and  sympathizing  with 
many  of  their  ideals,  for  they  shared  with  him  the  sense  of  a  new  age  and  contributed  in  no  small  measure 
to  his  development  as  a  poet  and  philosopher.    Whereas  he  had  studied  the  great  writers  of  previous  gener- 
ations as  a  schoolboy,  he  came  to  the  romantics  on  his  own  and  discovered  them  for  himself  at  a  time  when 
he  was  asking  the  very  questions  which  they  raised,  when  he  was  exploring  cautiously  but  persistently  the 
epistemological,  moral,  political,  and  metaphysical  issues  with  which  these  writers  were  preoccupied. 
Thus,  though  none  of  the  English  romantics  ranked  among  the  greatest  poets  for  Emerson,  he  was  deeply 
interested  in  them  as  partners  in  the  enterprise  of  living  in  the  19th  century,  as  men  like  himself  caught  be- 
tween the  rationalisms  of  the  Age  of  Pope  and  the  Age  of  Bentham  against  which  Thomson  and  Young  joined 
hands  with  Carlyle  and  Arnold  through  Coleridge  and  Wordsworth. 

This  essay  examines  Emerson'  s  discovery  of  the  English  romantics  and  his  growing  affection  for 
them,  not  necessarily  as  poets,  but  as  moralists  and  visionaries .   During  the  period  1818-1836  he  gradually 
began  to  see  Wordsworth,  Coleridge,  and  Carlyle  as  the  great  men  of  the  age,  but  only  after  his  early  in- 
terest in  the  favorite  writers  of  his  father's  generation,  Pope,  Swift,  and  Dryden,  and  in  the  most  popular 
poets  of  his  own  time,  Campbell,  Scott,  and  Byron.  (His  interest  in  Keats,  Shelley,  and  Tennyson  lies  out- 
side the  scope  of  this  study.)    Only  by  the  late  1820'  s  did  Emerson  begin  to  see  the  limitations  of  Scott  and 
Campbell  as  well  as  the  neoclassicists,  and  discover  an  intellectual  and  spiritual  kinship  with  those  roman- 
tics whose  influence  remained  strong  throughout  his  lifetime. 

I 

Having  learned  the  art  of  rhetoric  and  the  principles  of  composition  from  Hugh  Blair'  s  Lectures  On 
Rhetoric,  his  Harvard  teachers,   Edward  Everett  and  E.  T.  Channing,  and  the  popular  reviews  of  his  day, 
the  Edinburgh  and  the  North  American,  it  was  inevitable  that  Emerson  should  regard  the  writers  of  the  18th 
century  and  before  as  the  paramount  figures  of  literary  excellence.    Furthermore,  the  Emerson  brothers 
were  entertained  and  educated  in  their  youth  by  the  books  approved  by  their  parents,  which  included  the 
prominent  novelists  of  the  18th  century,  Richardson,  Goldsmith,  Sterne,  and  Fielding,  as  well  as  the  works 
of  the  popular  women  novelists,  both  American  and  British.    Besides  Young  and  Pope  and  such  minor  poets 
as  Falconer  and  Beattie,  the  Emersons  read  such  works  of  native  American  poets  as  Timothy  Dwight'  s  Con- 
quest of  Canaan  and  Joel  Barlow's  Columbiad .    The  Emerson  family's  taste  in  literature  is  best  suggested 
by  the  fact  that  Maria  Edgeworth'  s  stories  and  novels  were  withdrawn  far  more  frequently  from  the  Boston 
Library  Society  than  the  work  of  any  other  writer.    The  Emersons  read  and  reread  Edgeworth'  s  Moral 
Tales  for  Young  People,  The  Parent'  s  Assistant,  Tales  of  Fashionable  Life,  and  Popular  Tales ,  and  the 
novels,  The  Absentee,  Patronage,  and  The  Modern  Griselda . 

The  records  of  books  he  withdrew  from  the  Boston  Library  Society  and  the  Harvard  College  Library 
and  the  quotations  and  reading  lists  in  his  journals  and  notebooks  indicate  that  Emerson  read  widely  in  the 


37 

work  of  18th  century  writers  .2    During  his  college  years  he  read  Fielding'  s  Tom  Jones ,  Richardson'  s 
Clarissa  and  Sir  Charles  Grandison,  and  Smollett's  Peregrine  Pickle.    Later  in  the  1820' s  he  read  Swift' s 
Gulliver'  s  Travels  and  Johnson'  s  Rasselas  .    He  frequently  quotes  Young'  s  Night  Thoughts  and  Samuel  But- 
ler' s  Hudibras  (which  he  borrowed  in  1820).    He  undoubtedly  read  Pope'  s  Moral  Essays  and  Essay  on  Man, 
as  well  as  the  "Epistle  to  Dr.  Arbuthnot"  and  other  shorter  poems,  and  withdrew  a  volume  of  Pope'  s  Works 
from  the  Harvard  College  Library  in  1825.    He  returned  again  and  again  to  Dryden  in  the  early  1820'  s. 
During  this  period  he  read  Swift,  Addison,  and  especially  Johnson,  whose  Lives  of  the  Poets  introduced 
Emerson  to  most  of  these  writers  and  helped  to  sustain  his  good  opinion  of  them  .3    In  addition,  he  was 
familiar  with  Goldsmith'  s  "The  Deserted  Village,  "  Gray'  s  "Elegy,  "  Thomson'  s  The  Seasons,  Johnson'  s 
"The  Vanity  of  Human  Wishes,  "  and  Cowper'  s  "The  Task."    Thus,  when  he  saw  the  sort  of  poetry  written 
in  his  own  age  under  the  pretext  of  originality,  he  chided  his  contemporaries  for  not  stepping  "in  the  good 
old-fashioned  march  of  Milton  or  Pope  &  Dryden. "4    "Mr.  Pope's  judicious  poems"  he  ranked  with  the  work 
of  the  essayists  whom  he  continued  to  admire,  Bacon  and  Montaigne:    "the  Moral  Essays  &  Essay  on  Man 
which  without  originality  seize  upon  all  the  popular  speculations  floating  among  sensible  men  &  give  them  in 
a  compact  &  graceful  form  to  the  following  age"  (JMN,  II,  265).    Though  he  did  not  approve  of  Dryden--he 
was  one  of  the  "licentious  wits  of  Charles'  days"  (JMN,  II,  365)- -he  liked  "On  the  Death  of  a  Very  Young 
Gentleman"  and  "Ode  on  St.  Cecilia'  s  Day"  (JMN,  II,  275,  321).    Swift  he  regarded  as  one  of  the  great  re- 
formers, "a  modern  Tyrtaeus,  who  turned  the  tide  of  political  opinions  and  the  British  nation"  (JMN,  II, 
346-347).    "If  you  love  poetry,  "  he  wrote  to  his  cousin,  Hannah  Haskins  Ladd,   "make  acquaintance  with 
Milton  Pope  and  Cowper"  (1824,  L,  I,   156). 

Emerson'  s  favorite  among  the  writers  of  the   18th  century  was  Samuel  Johnson,  whose  Rambler  he 
read  frequently,  especially  during  the  1820'  s,  and  whose  opinions  he  sought  out  in  Boswell'  s  biography  .5 
Along  with  the  Tatler  and  Spectator  (read  by  the  Emerson  family  and  again  by  Emerson  during  his  college 
years)  he  considered  the  Rambler  an  important  and  influential  work;6    "Much  has  been  done  in  the  higher 
ranks  of  modern  society  by  the  English  periodical  Essays .  [11]    Ranked  with  the  elegant  classics  of  the  age 
they  have  penetrated  into  society  where  treatises  professedly  moral  would  never  have  come.    Much  has 
been  claimed  for  the  Spectator  in  rooting  out,  first  the  lighter  follies  of  fashion  and  afterwards  striking  an 
effectual  blow  at  vice  of  graver  character  as  gaming,  duelling,  and  others.    This  real  good,  done  to  man- 
kind has  not  been  over -rated  and  the  authors  of  the  Tatler,  Spectator,  Rambler,   &  Adventurer  deserve  the 
praise  which  Socrates  acquired.    They  have  diffused  instruction  by  unfolding,  in  pleasing  forms,  the  ex- 
cellence of  Virtue,  and  by  taking  advantage  of  that  principle  in  our  nature  which  induces  us  to  enjoy  with 
satisfaction  and  delight  pictures  of  finished  virtue  they  have  censured  vice  with  wit  and  recommended  vir- 
tuous principles  in  moral  strains  so  artfully  that  they  could  not  displease"  (JMN,  I,   331).    In  1820,   Emer- 
son wrote,  "we  require  such  works  as  The  Rambler  &  books  of  that  description,  moral  &  learned  &  argu- 
mentative writers,  minds  of  a  firmer  make,  built  up  to  persuade  &  convince  the  stubborn,  employing  them- 
selves in  encountering  prejudices  &  detecting  frauds,  in  checking  &  chastising  profane  abuse,   &  subjecting 
to  controul  those  passions  which  corrode  &  fret  the  soul"  (JMN,  I,    172).    He  regretted  that  "such  works 
are  rare  in  our  american  literature"  and  felt  that  Irving'  s  Sketch-book  did  not  measure  up  to  the  mark. 
Johnson's  Lives  of  the  Poets  provided  him  with  "elevated  amusement"  as  well  as  provocative  ideas  (JMN, 
II,  300).    In  1819  he  planned  to  write  an  essay  on  Johnson's  literary  life  for  the  Bowdoin  Prize  competition. 
Consequently  in  February  he  requested  William  to  send  him  "as  much  intelligence  as  you  choose"  on  the 
subject.    By  April,  however,  he  had  "not  read  half  of  Johnson'  s  works"  and  eventually  wrote  on  Socrates 
(see  L,  I,  76,  80). 

All  things  considered,  it  is  not  surprising  to  find  Emerson  saying  in  1824  that  the  18th  century  "a- 
bounded  in  greatness"  (JMN,  II,  208).    By  the  1830' s,  however,  he  had  found  new  writers  to  study  and  ad- 
mire.   In  one  of  his  early  lectures,   "On  the  Best  Mode  of  Inspiring  a  Correct  Taste,  "  he  suggested  that  an 
apprentice  poet  should  be  weaned  "from  traditionary  judgments .    And  will  you  not  save  him  wholly  that 
barren  season  of  discipline  which  young  men  spend  with  the  Aikins  and  Ketts  and  Drakes  and  Blair s  acquir- 
ing the  false  doctrine  that  there  is  something  arbitrary  or  conventional  in  letters,  something  else  in  style 
than  the  transparent  medium  through  which  I  should  see  new  and  good  thoughts?  "7 

By  this  time  he  had  begun  to  regard  the  18th  century,  with  its  "barren  season  of  discipline,  "  as  a 
literary  stuffed  shirt.    "The  man  of  Locke  is  virtuous  without  enthusiasm,  and  intelligent  without  poetry." 
Addison,  Pope,  and  Johnson,  he  believed,  could  not  "make  any  pretension  to  the  amount,  or  the  quality,  of 
Milton's  inspirations"  ("John  Milton,"  EL,  I,   149-150).    This  paucity  of  genius  he  attributed  to  the  influence 


38 

of  "the  French  school."    Writers  like  Dryden,  Pope,  and  Swift  had  "a  frivolous  style  of  thought"  which  re- 
sulted in  a  serious  decline  in  respect  for  the  poet  "as  a  priest  or  divine  man"  ("Chaucer,  "  EL,  1,  274). 
Emerson  could  still  admire  Addison  as  an  influential  moralist,  but  found  him  "not  very  original"  ("Ethical 
Writers,  "  EL,  I,  366).    The  work  of  both  Addison  and  Pope  he  considered  "coarse  prentice-work  compared 
to  enchantments  of  Shakspear  in  that  sort"  ("Shakspear"  [Second  Lecture]  ,  EL,  I,  310).    Indeed,  the  "fren- 
zy and  word-catching"  which  he  found  in  recent  literature  were  minor  faults  compared  to  the  serious  short- 
comings of  neoclassical  writing.    Even  Johnson  as  a  literary  critic  was  inadequate,  like  Dryden  and  Addison, 
when  it  came  to  judging  the  work  of  a  man  of  genius  like  Milton,  for  they  were  "able,  but  unsympathizing 
critics"  ("John  Milton,  "  EL,  I,   148).    It  would  take  a  man  endowed  with  Milton'  s  genius  to  appreciate  Mil- 
ton, but  the  18th  century  provided  no  such  critic. 

Johnson,  however,  fared  much  better  than  his  contemporaries  under  Emerson's  critical  scrutiny 
even  in  the  1830'  s.    Like  Jesus,  and  like  Sampson  Reed,  '"  he  taught  as  one  having  authority'  "  (JMN,  III, 
185).    Yet  Johnson,  too,  suffered  depreciation  under  the  repudiation  of  18th  century  rationalism .    To  the 
budding  transcendentalist  the  great  neoclassical  critic  appeared  to  be  a  morally  impressive  character  with 
some  significant  weaknesses:    "A  man  whom  it  is  always  a  refreshment  to  remember  because  with  whatever 
faults  and  whatever  mountainous  prejudices  encumbered  he  was  a  man  of  principle  and  therefore  had  the  in- 
exhaustible resources  of  principle  and  the  power  which  always  attends  it  to  inspire  respect  into  men  of  every 
degree  and  every  character.    He  is  always  accompanied  by  something  of  the  majesty  proper  to  virtue.    His 
intellect  is  not  very  subtle  nor  do  his  observations  indicate  very  profound  philosophy  yet  always  is  his  sense 
so  vigorous  and  his  sympathy  with  virtue  so  perfect,  and  moreover  so  deeply  does  he  stamp  every  sentence 
with  his  own  mode  of  thought  that  the  faults  of  his  learning  and  the  limits  of  his  own  speculation  have  not 
diminished  his  fame  or  influence"  ("Ethical  Writers,  "  EL,  I,  366).    Certainly  the  Rambler  "contains  many 
of  those  passages  which  we  are  stronger  and  happier  for  having  read, "  yet  some  might  find  it  "a  tedious 
book"  ("Ethical  Writers,"  EL,  I,  368).    As  a  poet  Johnson  was  less  impressive.    For  instance,  Irene  was 
"poetry  of  the  manufactory  and  not  of  the  muse"  ("Shakspear"  [Second  Lecture  J  ,   EL,  I,  309). 

This  qualified  estimate  of  Johnson'  s  talents  suggests  that  Emerson  had  not  only  altered  his  philosophy 
and  his  poetics  but  had  also  become  a  maturer  critic  capable  of  making  discriminating  judgments  on  his  own 
rather  than  borrow  literary  evaluations  from  Francis  Jeffrey  or  Edward  Everett .    Nevertheless ,  because 
of  his  philosophical  and  literary  disposition,  he  had  clearly  repudiated  the  neoclassicists  despite  his  youth- 
ful attachment  to  them.    And  the  same  process  of  gradual  disenchantment  is  discernible  in  his  estimate  of 
the  popular  romantic  writers  of  the  early  19th  century,  Byron,  Scott,  and  Campbell,  each  of  whom  in  one 
way  or  another  owed  a  large  literary  debt  to  the  18th  century. 

From  his  reading  of  Don  Juan  in  1819  and  throughout  the  early  1820'  s  Emerson  read  almost  all  Byron'  s 
poetry.    In  his  journals  and  notebooks  he  quoted  profusely  from  Childe  Harold,  Don  Juan,  Manfred,  and  the 
tales .    Despite  the  critical  controversy  which  Byron  stirred  up  in  the  literary  reviews,  he  "was  the  most 
popular  English  writer  of  the  hour.  .  .and  the  ascendency  of  the  Byronic  verse  was  much  more  lasting  and 
marked  than  that  of  Scott' s  octo -syllables  ."8    The  Edinburgh  Review  commented  in  1816,  "If  the  finest 
poetry  be  that  which  leaves  the  deepest  impression  on  the  minds  of  its  readers --and  this  is  not  the  worst 
test  of  its  excellence --Lord  Byron,  we  think,  must  be  allowed  to  take  precedence  of  all  his  distinguished 
contemporaries .  "9 

During  the  same  period  Emerson  read  more  than  a  dozen  of  Scott'  s  novels  in  addition  to  poems  such 
as  The  Vision  of  Don  Roderick,  Lady  of  the  Lake,  Rokeby,  and  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel.    His  interest  in 
Scott  was  nurtured  by  the  Edinburgh  and  Quarterly  reviews,  which  applauded  each  novel  as  it  was  published. 
In  1832  Francis  Jeffrey  declared  that  "perhaps  no  writer  has  ever  enjoyed  so  extensive  a  popularity  as  the 
Author  of  Waverly.'TO   And  a  few  years  before,   Emerson  had  asked,   "Who  are  the  real  sovereigns  of 
Britain "    Sir  Walter  Scott,  he  answered,  along  with  Mackintosh  and  Jeffrey  (JMN,  III,   13). 

Of  the  lesser  poets  of  the  age,  Emerson  was  familiar  with  the  works  of  Burns,  Crabbe,  and  Rogers, 
who  were  among  Francis  Jeffrey'  s  favorites,  and  he  read  Moore'  s  Lalla  Rookh,  Hunt'  s  Feast  of  the  Poets, 
and  Southey'  s  Thalaba .    Among  these  his  favorite,  at  least  during  his  years  at  Harvard,  was  Thomas  Camp- 
bell,  a  poet  whose  work  was  known  to  him  in  his  youth  and  who,  according  to  Kenneth  W.  Cameron,  exerted 
a  strong  influence  on  the  young  Emerson  by  the  example  of  his  Pleasures  of  Hope  and  by  the  theory  of  poetry 


39 
presented  in  his  Essay  on  English  Poetry  and  his  "Lectures  on  Poetry"  which  appeared  in  1821.  H    Camp- 
bell was  admired  not  only  by  the  Edinburgh  Review,  but  by  American  critics  as  well,  among  whom  he  was 
known  as  "the  poet  of  liberty. "12 

At  the  Boston  Latin  School,  reports  one  of  his  classmates,  Emerson'  s  "favorite  piece  for  declamation' 
was  a  passage  from  Pleasures  of  Hope,  13  which  was  withdrawn  from  the  Boston  Library  Society  in  1816. 
His  family  had  borrowed  Campbell'  s  Poetical  Works  in  1812  and  1814,  and  Emerson  himself  borrowed  a 
volume  of  this  collection  in  1820.    In  that  year  he  copied  down  a  few  lines  of  Campbell'  s  Battle  of  the  Baltic 
in  the  middle  of  a  rough  draft  of  his  Pythologian  Society  poem,  "Improvement"  (JMN,  I,  238).    And  in  1821, 
discussing  the  difficulty  of  writing  "impassioned  poetry,  "  he  cited  Campbell'  s  "O'  Connor'  s  Child"  as  "one 
of  the  few  successful  attempts  of  this  sort"  (JMN,  I,  281).    Considering  Emerson's  enthusiasm  at  this  time 
for  Campbell,  it  is  surprising  to  find  that  the  poet  is  seldom  mentioned  again  in  Emerson's  writing.    Sig- 
nificantly his  name  does  not  appear  in  any  of  Emerson'  s  lectures  of  the  mid- 1830'  s  devoted  to  a  considera- 
tion of  English  poetry.    In  1831  Emerson  praised  Campbell'  s  "Lines  on  Poland,  "  but  by  this  time  he  found 
his  old  favorite,  Pleasures  of  Hope,  lifeless,   "dead  verses"  (JMN,  III,  280). 

Emerson's  enthusiasm  for  Sir  Walter  Scott  was  almost  as  short-lived,  although  at  first  he  thought 
him  a  writer  of  the  first  rank.    Scott  impressed  him  by  his  unaffectedness  and  lack  of  vulgarity  (JMN,  III, 
13).    In  1824  he  wrote  to  his  cousin,  "if  you  love  romance  you  may  read  Scott'  s  Novels  without  sin  or  scan- 
dal" (L,  I,   156).    Though  Emerson  did  not  care  for  The  Vision  of  Don  Roderick  and  was  disappointed  with 
The  Fortunes  of  Nigel  (L_,  I,  21,   124),  he  believed  that  the  characters  in  Rokeby  did  "honour  to  [Scott'  s] 
mind  &  heart"  (JMN,  I,   163),  quoted  a  stanza  from  the  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel  as  "a  beautiful  measure" 
(JMN,  I,  378),  thought  that  The  Abbot  "must  be  to  its  author  'a  source  of  unmixed  delight  &  unchastened 
pride'  "  (JMN,  I,  42),  and  praised  Quentin  Durward  as  "a  very  respectable  novel"  in  a  letter  to  J.  B.  Hill 
(L,  I,    134).    Apparently,   Emerson's  favorite  Scott  novel  was  The  Bride  of  Lammermoor,  which  he  recom- 
mended half  seriously  as  a  cure  for  unhappiness  (JMN,  I,  44).     In  1822  he  praised  Scott'  s  use  of  prophecy 
in  the  novel:    "It  is  the  most  beautiful  use  of  supernatural  machinery  in  fiction"  (JMN,  II,  24).    Inspired  by 
this  book,  he  was  attracted  by  the  thought  of  becoming  a  novelist  (L_,  I,   198).    And  almost  a  decade  later  he 
found  in  The  Bride  of  Lammermoor  an  example  of  the  sympathetic  imagination  which  he  had  so  much  ad- 
mired in  Campbell:    "Pleasure  taken  in  Ravenswood's  grand  feudal  character  great.    And  why?    because  the 
contemplation  of  somebody  that  we  could  depend  upon,   &  should  without  risk  admire  &  love  if  we  should 
converse  with  him,  is  pleasing.    The  soul  believes  in  its  own  immortality  &  whilst  this  character  floats  be- 
fore it,  is  already  anticipating  intercourse  with  such  in  other  states  of  being.    Is  it  not  too,  that  by  the  law 
of  sympathy  the  soul  sees  in  every  great  character  only  a  mirror  in  which  its  own  pinched  features  are  ex- 
panded to  true  dimensions  [,  ]    '  the  shows  of  things  to  the  desires  of  the  mind'  "  (JMN,  III,  246-247). 

By  the  late  1820' s,  however,  despite  his  enduring  appreciation  of  The  Bride  of  Lammermoor ,   Emer- 
son had  begun  to  regard  the  novel  as  a  worthy  but  decidedly  second-rate  literary  genre.    "The  passion  for 
novels  is  natural,  "  he  wrote  in  1829.    "Every  child  asks  his  Grandpapa  to  tell  him  a  story.    Cinderella  and 
Red  Ridinghood  are  the  no[v]  els  of  the  two  shoeses,   &  Walter  Scott  is  the  grandpa  of  the  grown  up  children" 
(JMN,  III,   150-151).     In  his  second  lecture  on  Shakespeare,  he  apparently  reconsidered  his  earlier  judg- 
ment of  Scott'  s  unaffectedness:    "We  praise  Scott  for  taking  kings  and  nobles  off  their  stilts  and  giving  them 
simple  dignity  but  Scott'  s  grandees  are  turgid  compared  with  the  princeliness  of  Hamlet  or  Prince  Hal" 
(EL,  I,  313).    In  a  later  lecture  he  spoke  at  some  length  of  Scott'  s  virtues  and  limitations.    On  the  one 
hand  he  has  filled  our  lonely  hours  with  entertainment,  relieved  us  in  our  distress,  and  demonstrated  his 
strong  sense,  good  nature,  and  humor,  as  well  as  the  power  of  his  fancy  and  the  constancy  of  his  observa- 
tion.   The  praise,  if  it  can  be  called  that,  is  flat  and  thin.    On  the  other  hand,  Scott  lacks  imagination,  in 
the  highest  sense,  and  he  has  therefore  merely  amused  and  failed  to  teach.    "The  vice  of  his  literary  effort 
is  that  the  whole  structure  is  artificial."    His  dialogue  is  too  often  pedantic,  his  characters  have  no  depth, 
and  he  substitutes  tricks  of  fancy  for  "divine  impulse."    In  short,   "If  Scott  is  advanced  from  the  crowd  of 
his  contemporaries  and  compared  with  the  standard  English  authors. .  .it  will  be  found  that  he  has  done  little 
for  permanent  literature"  ("Modern  Aspects  of  Letters,  "  EL,  I,  376,  375). 

Lord  Byron,  like  Campbell  and  Scott,  was  a  favorite  of  Emerson'  s  during  college  years.    In  1818  he 
wrote  to  his  brother  Edward,   "I  never  go  up  a  hill  now  but  I  think  of  Manfred  or  some  of  Byrons  heroes  or 
else  of  Scotts  Bertram  in  Rokeby"  (L,  I,  60).    Earlier  that  year  he  had  written  to  Edward  in  praise  of  the 
third  Canto  of  Childe  Harold:    "[It  J   is  the  most  beautiful  poetry  in  my  humble  opinion  that  I  ever  read"  (L, 


40 

I,  55).    In  1819  Emerson  spoke  at  length  and  appreciatively  of  Byron'  s  Corsair,  The  Giaour,  and  Childe 
Harold.    His  originality,   Emerson  believed,   "is  not  so  much  owing  to  this  common  desire  to  please  by 
novelty  as  to  the  natural  peculiarity  of  his  own  character"  (JMN,  I,   165).      Byron's  flaunting  disregard  of 
the  opinions  of  others  did  not  impress  him,  yet  he  approved  of  his  "intensity  of  feeling"  and  his  "impas- 
sioned earnestness"  combined  with  his  remarkable  simplicity  and  spontaneity.    These  pre-eminent  virtues 
counteract  "the  debasing  tendency  of  vice,  "  for  although  all  Byron'  s  heroes  are  "vicious  characters,  "  he 
gives  them  a  rare  "elevation  of  sentiment"  and  always  shows  "the  bitterness  of  their  misery,  "  all  of  which 
makes  them  not  "conducive  to  immorality"  (JMN,  I,   167).    Again,  in  1822,  he  defended  the  Byronic  hero  as 
a  species  different  in  kind  from  the  satanic  figures  of  Scott'  s  Guy  Mannering  or  Richardson'  s  Clarissa. 
"Byron's  [heroes]  have  redeeming  gentle  affections;"  the  others  have  "a  dreadfull  tendency  in  roughly  wear- 
ing off  the  moral  delicacy  by  such  a  familiarity  with  profanity  &  abomination"  (JMN,  I,   131-132).    A  year 
earlier  Emerson  had  read  Manfred,  which  he  ranked  with  Milton'  s  Comus  as  a  "sublime  dramatic  poem" 
and  the  best  of  "performances  . .  .of  modern  genius"  (JMN,  I,  298). 

In  everything  he  read  of  Byron'  s  at  this  time  Emerson  found  "a  language  for  deep  feeling  and  sublime 
thought"  (JMN,  I,  279).    Shortly  after  his  graduation  from  Harvard,  however,  perhaps  because  of  his  grow- 
ing interest  in  the  ministry,  he  began  to  question  Byron'  s  virtue  as  a  poet,  primarily  on  moral  grounds .  In 
1823  he  classed  "the  profligate  Byron"  with  Hume  and  other  skeptics,  lamenting  their  negative  moral  in- 
fluence:   "Composing  in  themselves  a  brilliant  constellation  of  minds  variously  &  richly  endowed  they  have 
taken  out  its  welcome  influence  from  the  cause  of  good  will  to  men  &  set  it  in  the  opposite  scale.    Like  the 
star  seen  in  the  Apocalypse  they  have  cast  a  malign  light  upon  the  earth,  turning  the  sweet  waters  to  bitter" 
(JMN,  II,   108).    By  1824  Emerson  was  ready  to  repudiate  the  Byronic  hero,  especially  Don  Juan,  as  "a 
breaker  of  all  human  &  divine  laws  scoffing  at  virtue  as  grimace  or  ignorance  &  leading  a  life  of  pleasure 
in  defiance  of  restraints"  (JMN,  II,  282).    Of  all  the  moral  cynics,  Byron,   "extreme  in  all  things,  has  laid 
hands  on  the  everlasting  foundation  of  human  virtue,  [and]   he  banters  with  indecent  derision  the  first  affec- 
tions of  the  heart."    So  offended  was  Emerson  now  by  the  poisonous  moral  influence  of  the  poetry  that  he 
pledged  himself  in  heroic  couplets  to  purify  the  art: 

Let  Byron'  s  fame  on  false  foundations  built 

Search  its  sublimity  in  awful  guilt 

For  me,  for  me,   '  tis  blameless  to  be  proud 

And  scorn  to  mix  with  the  besotted  crowd 

I  scorn  to  make  fair  Poesy  a  curse 

To  man;  &  marry  Vice  to  Verse  (JMN,  II,  401). 

Even  Byron'  s  passing  was  censured:    "His  death  should  have  furnished  a  page  to  this  hungry  time.    A  tre- 
mendous exit  should  have  been  the  fitting  tail-piece  of  his  part.    Not  an  inglorious  insignificant  asthma  or 
stomach-ache"  (JMN,  VI,   122).    This  was  the  man,  after  all,  who  had  "made  more  rogues  &  whores  out  of 
men  and  women  in  society  than  any  living  or  dead"  (JMN,  VI,   121-122). " 

By  the  1830'  s  he  found  little  to  like  in  Byron'  s  poetry.    He  thought  Heaven  and  Earth  full  of  cheap  jests 
(JMN,  V,  79),  and  Sardanapalus,  along  with  Henry  Taylor'  s  Philip  van  Artevelde  and  Joanna  Baillie'  s  plays, 
"futile  endeavors  to  revive  a  dead  form"  (JMN,  V,   150).    Though  he  continued  to  appreciate  the  fourth  Canto 
of  Childe  Harold  and  The  Island,  ^  he  found  it  painful  to  look  back  "at  the  writings  of  one  who  should  have 
been  a  clear  and  beneficent  genius  to  guide  and  cheer  human  nature  the  emotions  which  a  gang  of  pirates 
and  convicts  suggest"  ("Modern  Aspects  of  Letters,  "  EL,  I,  374).     Although  Emerson  was  certain  of  "the 
great  defects  of  Childe  Harold,  "  he  could  appreciate  the  superiority  of  Byron'  s  observations:    "Indeed  Italy 
is  Byron's  debtor"  (JMN,  IV,   165).    What  he  respected  most  was  Byron's  powerful,  pure,  simple  language, 
but  he  faulted  him  for  the  "famine  of  meaning"  in  his  work,  the  absolute  absence  of  idealism  and  purpose 
("Modern  Aspects  of  Letters,  "  EL,  I,  372-373).    Perhaps  more  than  anything  it  was  Byron'  s  "pride  and 
selfishness"  which  made  him  less  than  a  great  poet,  for  "his  poems  have  but  one  subject:  himself."    This 
was  the  greatest  literary  sin:     "the  true  Poet  quits  himself  and  throws  his  spirit  into  whatever  he  contem- 
plates and  enjoys  the  making  it  speak  that  it  would  say"  ("Chaucer,  "  EL,  I,  272-273).    Byron  was  indeed 
the  most  popular  poet  of  the  day,  yet  now  "men  begin  to  feel  that  his  claims  to  a  permanent  popularity  are 
more  than  dubious"  ("Modern  Aspects  of  Letters,  "  EL,  I,  372). 

II 

In  his  lecture  on  Chaucer  in  the  mid-1830'  s  he  stated  that  Dryden,  Pope,  and  Swift  had  helped  to  de- 
prive the  poet  of  his  divinity,  a  lamentable  turn  of  events  for  Emerson,  who  was  beginning  to  see  poetry  as 


41 

a  divine  craft.    Unfortunately,   "Scott,  Byron,  and  Moore  have  done  nothing  to  recal  the  right  state  of 
things"  ("Chaucer,  "  EL,  I,  274),  a  sentiment  which  he  had  expressed  a  decade  earlier.    It  was  not  until 
the  late  1820' s  that  he  discovered  in  Wordsworth,  Coleridge,  and  Carlyle  men  of  genius  who  shared  his 
sense  of  the  divinity  of  man  and  who  believed  in  the  holy  office  of  the  poet.    He  was  slow  in  coming  to  a  just 
appreciation  of  the  first  two.    He  withdrew  a  volume  of  Wordsworth'  s  poems  from  the  Boston  Library  So- 
ciety in  1820  and  had  undoubtedly  read  his  work  before.    In  1819  he  perused  an  essay  on  Coleridge's  Bio- 
graphia  Literaria  in  the  Edinburgh  Review,  one  of  the  journals  in  which  he  saw  the  names  of  the  Lake  School 
poets  mentioned  again  and  again.    Indeed,  it  was  probably  Emerson's  reading  in  the  literary  reviews  which 
led  him  to  undervalue  these  writers,  just  as  the  Edinburgh  and  the  North  American  had  led  him  to  over- 
estimate the  worth  of  Scott  and  Campbell.    The  Edinburgh  in  particular  regarded  the  Lake  School  poets  as 
"dissenters  from  the  established  systems  in  poetry  and  criticism,  "  and  especially  criticized  their  "anti- 
social principles,  and  distempered  sensibility  of  Rousseau. "1°    To  Francis  Jeffrey  they  were  "the  wild  or 
lawless  poets,  "  who  created  unlikely  characters,  described  them  obscurely  and  sententiously,  and,  there- 
fore, left  the  reader  with  no  sense  of  where  he  had  been  and  no  notion  of  where  he  ought  to  go .  1'    W.  H. 
Prescott  and  A.  H.  Everett,  of  the  North  American  Review,  expressed  a  similar  dissatisfaction  with  the 
Lake  poets.  18    in  1819  Emerson  noted  that  the  disciples  of  Wordsworth  "are  generally  denominated  Lake 
Poets  &  have  sometimes  fallen  under  the  lash  of  the  Edinburgh  criticks"  (JMN,  I,   165).    Two  years  later 
he  commented  that  Southey,  Coleridge,  and  Wordsworth  "have  gained  less  honour  than  ridicule  by  their 
poetry  not  because  it  wanted  genius  but  it  wanted  nature"  (JMN,  I,  282). 

Yet,  despite  the  general  condemnation,  Wordsworth  was  as  influential  among  American  writers,  if 
not  readers,  as  Byron  and  Scott.  19    Thus,   Emerson  turned  repeatedly  to  a  consideration  of  Wordsworth'  s 
virtues  and  vices  though  "the  accent  is  patently  not  that  of  a  devotee  or  a  disciple. "20    His  first  mention  of 
Wordsworth  in  1819  suggests  the  college  student'  s  love  of  poetic  grandeur  and  his  view  of  poetry  as  an 
entertaining  if  not  morally  salutary  medium:    "At  once  then  his  poetry  is  the  poetry  of  pigmies .    It  belittles 
the  mind  that  is  accustomed  to  the  manly  march  of  other  muses  .    I  am  pleased  with  the  prettiness  .  .  .of  his 
verses  and  with  their  novelty  as  long  as  their  novelty  lasts  but  I  am  soon  conscious  of  a  disagreeable  sen- 
sation which  soon  becomes  intolerable  at  [the]  dwarfish  dimensions  of  all  my  entertainment  and  am  like  a 
man  creeping  about  in  palaces  of  Lilliput  who  maugre  all  the  magnificence  would  fain  be  on  his  own  legs 
again  [^1]     He  is  the  poet  of  pismires.    His  inspirations  are  spent  light.    It  is  one  of  the  greatest  mistakes 
in  the  [world]  to  suppose  that  that  much  abused  virtue  of  nature  in  poetry  consists  in  mere  fidelity  of  rep- 
resentation" (JMN,  I,   162).    Two  years  later  Emerson  added  to  Wordsworth'  s  errors  a  "glaring  false 
taste,  "  his  poems  having  "something  offensive  at  every  turn, "  an  "obtrusive  deformity"  or  "noted  vulgar- 
ism" among  the  merely  "occasional"  beauties  (JMN,  II,  281-282). 

Although  he  began  a  comparison  of  Wordsworth  with  Shakespeare  and  Milton  by   1826  or  1827,    1  it 
was  not  in  Wordsworth's  favor.    Again  he  criticized  the  poet  for  his  penchant  for  too  thorough  description: 
"A  fault  that  strikes  the  readers  of  Mr.  Wordsworth  is  the  direct  pragmatical  analysis  of  objects,  in  their 
nature  poetic,   but  which  all  other  poets  touch  incidentally.    He  mauls  the  moon  &  the  waters  &  the  bul- 
rushes as  his  main  business.    Milton  &  Shakespeare  touch  them  gently  as  illustration  or  ornament"  (JMN, 
III,  39).    Like  the  alchemists  and  astrologers  of  the  Middle  Ages,  Wordsworth  tried  "to  extort  by  direct 
means  the  principle  of  life  [,  ]  the  secret  &  substance  of  matter  from  material  things;    . .  .to  distill  the  es- 
sence of  poetry  from  poetic  things  instead  of  being  satisfied  to  adorn  common  scenes  with  such  lights  from 
these  sources  of  poetry  as  nature  will  always  furnish  to  her  true  lovers"  (JMN,  III,  39-40).    Thus,  though 
Emerson  recognized  Wordsworth  as  the  English  representative  of  "Transcendentalism"  (JMN,  III,  70),  he 
"could  scarcely  have  said  less  about  his  striking  pantheistic  attitude,  "22  or  have  spoken  less  favorably  of 
it.    He  even  found  James  Montgomery'  s  "Pelican Island"  superior:     "It  is  a  poem  worth  ten  '  Excursions' 
being  generally  a  complete  contrast  to  Wordsworth'  s  verses .    These  abounding  in  fact  &  Wordsworth  want- 
ing.   These  seizing  coarse  &  tangible  features  for  description  or  allusion  &  W.  the  metaphysical  &  evanes- 
cent.   This  treating  body,   &  W.  soul.    This  using  a  very  large  encyclopediacal  diction  &  W.  affecting  that 
which  may  be  proper  to  the  passions  in  common  life"  (JMN,  III,  41). 

He  reread  Wordsworth  in  1828  and  1829,  withdrawing  two  volumes  of  the  Poetical  Works  from  the 
Harvard  Divinity  School  library.    Particularly  after  reading  Carlyle'  s  essays  in  the  Edinburgh  and  other 
reviews  and  Coleridge's  prose  and  poetry,  he  began  to  reconsider  his  earlier  view  of  Wordsworth,  re- 
maining cautiously  critical.    In  1831  he  believed  Wordsworth  had  yet  to  undergo  the  ordeal  which  Shake- 
speare had  successfully  survived;  he  was  still  a  "new  aspirant,  "  yet  to  prove  his  durability,  despite  the 


42 
fact  that  he  had  written  "lines  that  are  like  outward  nature, "  especially  in  his  Sonnets  to  Liberty  (JMN,  III, 
271).    A  month  later  he  praised  the  "Ode  to  Duty,  "  "Rob  Roy, "  "Dion, "  and  "The  Happy  Warrior"  (JMN, 
III,  305).    He  counseled  his  brother  Edward  to  ask  Charles  about  "Dion"  and  the  sonnets  "when  you  want  a 
sermon"  (L,  I,  340)  and  shortly  afterward  sent  the  two  volumes  to  Charles  (_L,  I,  341).    He  could  "almost" 
accept  Coleridge's  Latin  praise  of  Wordsworth,  "whom,  as  often  as  I  read,  I  seem  to  hear,  not  words,  but 
thunder":    "His  noble  distinction  is  that  he  seeks  the  truth  &  shuns  with  brave  self-denial  every  image  and 
word  that  is  from  the  purpose- -means  to  stick  close  to  his  own  thought  &  give  it  in  naked  simplicity  &  so 
make  it  God'  s  affair  not  his  own  whether  it  shall  succeed.    But  he  fails  of  executing  this  purpose  fifty  times 
for  the  sorry  purpose  of  making  a  rhyme  in  which  he  has  no  skill,  or  from  imbecillity  of  mind  losing  sight 
of  his  thought,  or  from  self  surrender  to  custom  in  poetic  diction"  (JMN,  III,  306-307).     In  1832  Emerson 
felt  that  "Tintern  Abbey"  and  "Ode  to  Duty,  "  which  he  had  praised  a  year  before,  were  seriously  flawed 
poems.    "I  never  read  Wordsworth  without  chagrin,  "  he  said.    "A  man  of  such  great  powers  &  ambition, 
so  near  to  the  Dii  majores  to  fail  so  meanly  in  every  attempt.    A  genius  that  hath  epilepsy,  a  deranged 
archangel"  (JMN,  IV,  63).    Even  in  1835  he  could  still  complain  that  though  "Wordsworth  writes  the  verses 
of  a  great  original  bard. .  .he  writes  ill[,  ]  weakly  concerning  his  poetry,  talks  ill  of  it,   &  even  writes 
other  poetry  that  is  very  poor"  (JMN,  V,  83).    He  found  platitudes  that  "fillfed]  the  barnyard  with  his 
cackle"  (JMN,  V,   100). 

By  this  time,  however,  he  was  beginning  to  grant  Wordsworth  the  status  of  first  poet  of  the  age.    He 
had  visited  him  at  Rydal  Mount  in  August,   1833,  and  had  written  favorably  of  him  as  a  writer  and  as  a  man, 
despite  his  lasting  impatience  with  the  faults  and  Wordsworth'  s  denunciation  of  Goethe  and  milder  criti- 
cism of  Carlyle  and  Coleridge:    "His  egotism  was  not  at  all  displeasing- -obtrusive- -as  I  had  heard.  ...    I 
spoke  as  I  felt  with  great  respect  of  his  genius"  (JMN,  IV,  225).    Wordsworth  was  by  now  "a  divine  man" 
like  Socrates  and  Columbus  (JMN,  IV,   108-109),  "a  philanthropist"  like  Fox  and  Montaigne  (JMN,  IV,  315), 
a  true  genius  like  Carlyle  and  Allston  (JMN,  V,  22),  and  a  "divine  savage"  like  Webster  and  Reed  (JMN,  V, 
60).    Emerson  could  expect  to  find  in  the  1835  edition  of  Wordsworth'  s  poems  "thoughts  in  harmony  with 
the  great  frame  of  Nature"  (JMN,  V,  99),  and  he  found  "nothing  vulgar  in  Wordsworth'  s  idea  of  Man,  " 
which  echoed  his  own  view  that  "To  believe  your  own  thought,  that  is  Genius"  (JMN,  V,   163).    Wordsworth 
was  "The  great  philosophical  poet  of  the  present  day"  ("Martin  Luther,  "  EL,  I,   140),  who  with  Reed  and 
Alcott  made  the  distinctions  of  fortune  frivolous,  the  voice  of  fame  unaffecting,  and  the  possibility  of  com- 
munion with  the  spiritual  world  a  certainty  (JMN,  V,   160-161).    Emerson  could  fully  agree  with  Carlyle  in 
being  "thankful  for  Wordsworth;  as  in  great  darkness  and  perpetual  skyrockets  and  coruscations,  one  were, 
for  the  smallest  clear-burning  farthing  candle.  "^   At  one  point  he  went  so  far  as  to  place  Wordsworth  above 
Milton  as  "a  more  original  poet  than  he,  "  without  the  faults  of  Milton'  s  learnedness  and  "royal  imagery" 
(JMN,  IV,  312-313). 

Little  need  be  said  of  Emerson'  s  discovery  of  Coleridge  since  the  subject  has  been  thoroughly  treated 
in  Kenneth  W.  Cameron's  Emerson  the  Essayist.    Introduced  to  Coleridge's  ideas  at  Harvard  Divinity 
School,  Emerson  nevertheless  virtually  ignored  Coleridge  until  the  late  1820' s  and  early  1830' s.    By  the 
mid- 1830'  s  he  acknowledged  the  debt  he  owed  to  the  Biographia  Literaria  and  regarded  its  author  as  a 
critic  of  the  first  rank  (EL,  I,  378-379). 

In  1835  he  wrote  to  Benjamin  P.  Hunt:    "Have  you  fallen  in  with  the  writings  of  Thomas  Carlyle? . . . 
My  friends  think  I  exaggerate  his  merit  but  he  seems  to  me  one  of  the  best,   &  since  Coleridge  is  dead,  I 
think,  the  best  thinker  of  the  age"  (L,  I,  432).    Carlyle  was  unknown  to  Emerson  by  name  until  October, 
1832,  but  he  had  begun  to  read  the  anonymous  essays  at  least  as  early  as  1827  (L,  1,  218).    Carlyle  was 
known  in  America  by  1829,  when  his  translation  of  Goethe'  s  Wilhelm  Meister  was  published  in  Boston. 24 
But  whether  known  by  name  or  not,  he  aroused  Emerson'  s  friends  to  study  German  literature  and  language, 
and  moved  Emerson  to  comment,  "I  am  cheered  &  instructed  by  this  paper  on  Corn  Law  Rhymes  in  the 
Edinburgh  by  my  Germanick  new-light  writer  whoever  he  be.    He  gives  us  confidence  in  our  principles. 
He  assures  the  truthlover  everywhere  of  sympathy"  (JMN,  IV,  45). 

Before  he  referred  to  Carlyle  by  name  (JMN,  IV,  52),   Emerson  had  read  "Signs  of  the  Times"  (JMN, 
VI,  93)  and  "Characteristics,  "  as  well  as  a  number  of  Carlyle'  s  essays  on  German  writers  (CEC,  p.  4). 
When  he  sailed  for  Europe  on  Christmas  Day,   1832,  he  intended  to  seek  out  this  strange  new  figure  who 
had  succeeded  in  bringing  to  England  and  America  a  comprehensive  and  inspired  view  of  an  almost  entirely 
new  literature  and  philosophy.    And  when  he  visited  the  Carlyles  at  Craigenputtock,  he  loved  his  "Germanick 


43 

new-light  writer"  immediately,  despite  the  feeling  that  Carlyle  had  little  "insight  into  religious  truth"  (L_, 
I,  394-395).    His  response  was  ecstatic.    He  found  Carlyle  "good  &  wise  &  pleasant"  and  "never  saw  more 
amiableness  than  is  in  his  countenance"  (JMN,  IV,  219-220).    At  Liverpool  on  a  gloomy  night  he  wished 
longingly  for  Carlyle'  s  conversation  and  regretted  having  left  the  genius  who  was  now  "his  idol"  (JMN,  IV, 
82). 

By  late  1834  he  had  read  Sartor  Resartus  in  Fraser's  Magazine  (JMN,  VI,  252-253)  and  recommended 
it  early  in  1835  to  Benjamin  P.  Hunt  (L_,  I,  432-433).    He  considered  it  "a  philosophical  Poem"  (JMN,  IV, 
302)  and  had  thanked  Carlyle  for  writing  it,  in  his  first  letter  to  the  divinely  "self-centred"  scholar  in  May, 
1834  (CEC,  98).    In  March,   1835,  he  informed  Carlyle  that  he  was  cool  to  the  book  compared  to  the  "lovers 
of  Teufelsdrockh"  in  America  (CEC,  120),  though  he  had  said  the  opposite,  perhaps  more  candidly,  to  Hunt. 
But  certainly  some  few  were  as  impressed  as  Emerson  was .    After  reading  Alexander  Everett'  s  review  of 
Sartor  Resartus  in  the  North  American,  Emerson'  s  brother  Charles  felt  that  it  was  "like  seeing  your  brother 
in  jail;  &  A  Everett  is  the  sheriff  that  put  him  in"  (JMN,  V,  97). 

Now,  Emerson  began  to  think  of  Carlyle  in  the  company  of  his  most  esteemed  masters.    Like  Milton 
and  Shakespeare,  his  "fantastical  Scotchman"  not  only  inspired  him  but  showed  him  that  even  his  inspira- 
tion was  his  own,  a  valuable  lesson  for  the  worshiper  of  literary  heroes  and  the  future  author  of  "Self-Re- 
liance" (JMN,  IV,  274).    Like  Goethe  and  Swedenborg,  Carlyle  taught  him  to  follow  his  instincts  (JMN,  V, 
292;  IV,  318)  and  like  Goethe  and  Plato  demonstrated  to  him  the  secret  of  writing,  of  "true  argument,  what 
we  call  the  unfolding  an  idea"  (JMN,  IV,  289).    With  those  of  Bacon,  Herbert,  and  Michelangelo,  Carlyle' s 
writings  were  "divine  page[s]  "  (JMN,  V,  45),  but  it  was  Carlyle  alone,  Carlyle  "the  wise,  the  brave,  "  who 
might  come  to  America,  Emerson  hoped,  and  speak  to  the  men  of  his  generation  who  needed  so  much  to  be 
spoken  to  (JMN,  V,  33).    "Come  &  found  a  new  Academy,  "  he  wrote  in  1834,  "that  shall  be  church  St  school 
&  parnassus,  as  a  true  Poet's  house  should  be"  (CEC,   110). 

Yet,. for  all  his  enthusiasm,   Emerson  was  not  entirely  pleased  with  his  new-found  mentor.    He  com- 
plained of  Carlyle' s  diction,  syntax,  and  tone,  though  he  thanked  him  for  "the  brave  stand  you  have  made 
for  Spiritualism":    "But  has  literature  any  parallel  to  the  oddity  of  the  vehicle  chosen  to  convey  this 
treasure.    I  delight  in  the  contents,  the  form  which  my  defective  apprehension  for  a  joke  makes  me  not 
appreciate  I  leave  to  your  merry  discretion.    And  yet  did  ever  wise  &  philanthropic  author  use  so  defying 
a  diction?    As  if  society  were  not  sufficiently  shy  of  truth  without  providing  it  beforehand  with  an  objection 
to  the  form .    Can  it  be  that  this  humour  proceeds  from  a  despair  of  finding  a  contemporary  audience  &  so 
the  Prophet  feels  at  liberty  to  utter  his  message  in  droll  sounds .    Did  you  not  tell  me,  Mr.  Thomas  Car- 
lyle, sitting  upon  one  of  your  broad  hills,  that  it  was  Jesus  Christ  built  Dunscore  kirk  yonder .    If  you  love 
such  sequences,  then  admit,  as  you  will,  that  no  poet  is  sent  into  the  world  before  his  time;  that  all  the 
departed  thinkers  &  actors  have  paved  your  way;  that  (at  least,  when  you  surrender  yourself)  nations  & 
ages  do  guide  your  pen,  yes  &  common  goose-quills  as  well  as  your  diamond  graver.    Believe  then  that 
harp  &  ear  are  formed  by  one  revolution  of  the  wheel;  that  men  are  waiting  to  hear  your  Epical  Song;  and 
so  be  pleased  to  skip  those  excursive  involved  glees,  and  give  us  the  simple  air,  without  the  volley  of 
variations.    At  least  in  some  of  your  prefaces  you  should  give  us  the  theory  of  your  rhetoric.    I  compre- 
hend not  why  you  should  lavish  in  that  spendthrift  style  of  yours  Celestial  truths"  (CEC,  98-99).     In 
December,   1835,  he  noted  in  his  journal  that  Carlyle  was  better  at  interpreting  the  ideas  of  others  than  at 
"original  speculation"  (JMN,  V,   111-112).    And  a  year  later  he  believed  that  even  Carlyle  might  not  "feel 
the  deepest  interest  in  truth  itself"  (JMN,  V,   173). 

Yet  this  disappointment  was  certainly  no  greater  than  his  impatience  with  Wordsworth'  s  language 
and  with  Coleridge'  s  orthodox  defense  of  church  and  state.    It  is  even  a  little  surprising  that  he  went  as 
far  as  he  did  in  his  regard  for  Coleridge,  Wordsworth,  and  Carlyle,  considering  his  indifference  to 
Coleridge'  s  poetry,  particularly  "The  Rime  of  the  Ancient  Mariner,  "25  his  failure  to  appreciate  Words- 
worth' s  theory  of  nature,  and  his  criticism  of  Carlyle'  s  Natural  Supernaturalism  (JMN,  V,   111-112). 
Nevertheless,  though  he  thought  that  "not  one  of  these  is  a  mind  of  the  very  first  class,  "  he  considered 
them  "men  of  genius"  (JMN,  IV,  78-79)  and  continued  to  rank  them  with  the  prophets  of  the  age  (JMN,  IV, 
326).    In  the  final  pages  of  "Modern  Aspects  of  Letters,  "  after  his  glowing  paean  to  Coleridge,  he  re- 
ferred to  Wordsworth  and  Carlyle  "as  men  of  genius  who  obey  their  genius:  who  write  what  they  know  and 
feel,  and  who  therefore  know  that  their  Record  is  true"  (EL,  I,  381). 


44 

By  this  time  he  had  lost  interest  in  William  Savage  Landor,  though  he  had  read  the  Imaginary  Conversations 
with  some  enthusiasm  in  the  early  1830' s  (JMN,  V,   164).    And  Southey,  especially  compared  to  Coleridge 
and  Carlyle,  was  not  to  be  taken  seriously  (JMN,  IV,   173,  369).    He  found  a  number  of  examples  of  the 
moral  sublime  in  the  poetry  of  Robert  Burns  (JMN,  III,  304-305),  praised  "some  fine  verses"  of  Felicia 
Hemans  (L,  I,   199),  and  expressed  some  interest  in  Henry  Taylor,  Ebenezer  Elliott,  and  William  Hazlitt, 
whose  essays  he  had  read  in  his  college  years .    In  1830,  he  read  Shelley'  s  translation  of  Faust  with  ap- 
proval (L,  I,  305)  and,  a  year  later,  lent  a  copy  of  Tennyson'  s  Poems,  chiefly  Lyrical  to  a  friend,  "as  a 
gem  to  a  virtuoso"  (L,  I,  341).    Yet  we  hear  little  more  of  these  writers  before  1836,  during  the  important 
period  in  which  Emerson  wrote  his  first  significant  poetry,  his  lectures  on  science  and  literature,  and  his 
great  testament  of  transcendental  faith,  Nature.     Undoubtedly,  it  was  Wordsworth,  Coleridge,  and  Car- 
lyle who,  almost  alone  among  the  English  romantics,  made  the  important  contribution  to  his  development 
at  this  time  as  a  poet,  essayist,  and  thinker.    And  it  was  their  influence,  far  more  than  that  of  any  of 
their  contemporaries,  that  would  remain  with  him  for  years  to  come. 

Lafayette  College 


1  Parnassus  (Cambridge,  Mass.,   1880),  p.  iv. 

2  On  Emerson's  book  borrowings,  see  Kenneth  W.  Cameron,  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson's  Reading  (Raleigh, 
N.C.,  1941),  pp.  17-23,  44-48,   50;  Emerson  the  Essayist  (Raleigh,  N.C.,   1945),  II,   152-164;  and  The 
Transcendentalists  and  Minerva  (Hartford,  Conn.,   1958),  I,  43-56,  and  II,  415-420. 

3  "This  afternoon  I  began  to  read  Johnson'  s  lives  of  the  Poets  and  have  read  Cowley,  Denham,  and  began 
Milton:    I  like  it  very  much  for  Johnson  intersperses  it  with  his  own  wit"  (To  William  Emerson,  June,  1815, 
The  Letters  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  Ralph  L.  Rusk(N.Y.,   1939),  I,   10-11.    The  Letters  are  sub- 
sequently referred  to  in  my  text  as  L_. 

4  The  Journals  and  Miscellaneous  Notebooks  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  William  Gilman  et  al.  (Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  I960--),  I,   165.    The  Journals  are  subsequently  referred  to  in  my  text  as  JMN . 

5  A  letter  from  Emerson  to  his  brother  William  suggests  that  he  first  read  the  Rambler  in  1817  at 
William' s  request.    See  L,  I,  40. 

6  Emerson  also  recommended  the  Rambler  and  the  Spectator  to  his  cousin,  Hannah  Haskins  Ladd  (L,  I, 
156). 

7  The  Early  Lectures  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  Robert  E.  Spiller  and  Stephen  E.  Whicher  (Cambridge, 
Mass.,   1959),  I,  215.    The  Early  Lectures  are  subsequently  referred  to  in  my  text  as  EL. 

8  William  B.  Cairns,  On  the  Development  of  American  Literature  from  1815  to  1833,  Bull,  of  the  Univ.  of 
Wise,  Philology  and  Literature  Series,  I  (1898),   15-16. 

9  "Lord  Byron's  Poetry,"  Edinburgh  Review,  XXVII  (Dec,   1816),  277. 

10  "The  Waverly  Novels,  "  Edinburgh  Review,   LV(Jan.,   1832),  62. 

11  "More  Remarks  on  '  Indian  Superstition'  and  Emerson'  s  Oriental  Resources  While  at  Harvard,  " 
Transcendentalists  and  Minerva,  III,  833-836.    See  also    Kenneth  W.  Cameron,  "Emerson,  Thomas  Camp- 
bell, and  Bacon'  s  Definition  of  Poetry,  "  Emerson  Society  Quarterly,  No.  14(lstQuar.,   1959),  48-56. 

12  Charles  Duffy,   "Thomas  Campbell  and  America,"  American  Literature,  XIII  (Jan.,   1942),  349-350. 

13  James  Eliot  Cabot,  A  Memoir  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (Cambridge,  Mass.,   1887),  I,  44. 

14  For  similar  comments  in  the  mid-1820' s,  see  JMN,  II,  400;  II,  330-331;  and  III,  6. 

15  Emerson  had  recommended  "The  Island"  to  his  brother  William  in  1829.    See  L,  I,  264. 

16  "Southey' s  Thalaba,"  Edinburgh  Review,  I  (Oct.,   1802),  63-64. 

17  See,  for  example,  "Crabbe's  Poems,"  Edinburgh  Review,  XII  (Apr.,  1808),  133;  "Southey'  s  Curse  of 
Kehama,"  ibid.,  XVII  (Feb.,  1811),  436-437;  and  "Wordsworth's  Tour,"  ibid.,  XXVII  (Nov.,  1822),  449- 
450. 

18  "Byron's  Letter  on  Pope,  North  American  Review,  XIII  (Oct.,   1821),  467-468;  and  "Lord  Byron, " 
ibid. ,  XX  (Jan. ,   1825),  14.    Emerson  mentions  the  latter  in  a  letter  to  Mary  Moody  Emerson  in  April, 
1826  (L,  I,   168).  19    Cairns,   14-16. 

20  John  B.  Moore,   "Emerson  on  Wordsworth, "  PMLA,  XLI  (1926),   182. 

21  Frank  T.  Thompson,   "Emerson'  s  Theory  and  Practice  of  Poetry,  "  PMLA,  XLIII  (1928),   1171. 

22  Moore,   185. 

23  The  Correspondence  of  Emerson  and  Carlyle,  ed.  Joseph  Slater  (N.Y. ,   1964),  p.  133.    The  Corres- 
pondence is  subsequently  referred  to  in  my  text  as  CEC. 

24  William  Silas  Vance,  "Carlyle  in  America  Before  Sartor  Resartus,  "  American  Literature,  VII  Qan. , 
1936),  374.    Specific  comments  on  Carlyle  by  American  critics  are  given  in  Harry  Hayden  Clark,  "Chang- 
ing Attitudes  in  Early  American  Literary  Criticism:  1800-1840,  "  The  Development  of  American  Literary 
Criticism,  ed.  Floyd  Stovall  (ChapelHill,  N.C.,   1955),  p.  50.    See  also  CEC,  p.  4T18~! 

25  The  poem  is  not  included  among  the  narrative  poems  and  ballads  in  Parnassus. 


45 

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  WALL:    CONSCIOUSNESS  IN  EMERSON'S 
EARLY  AND  LATE  JOURNALS  evelyn  barish  greenberger 

Once  you  saw  phoenixes,  and  now  you  see  such  no  longer,  but  the  world  is  not  there- 
fore disenchanted.    The  vessels  on  which  you  read  sacred  emblems  have  turned  out  to 
be  common  pottery,  but  the  sacred  pictures  are  transferred  to  the  walls  of  the  world. 
You  no  longer  see  phoenixes;  men  are  not  divine  individuals ....    They  are  not  gods, 
but  the  spirit  of  God  sparkles  on  &  about  them.l 

Writing  in  1836,  Emerson  remarked  in  his  journal:    "A  year  ago  I  studied  Ben  Jonson  a  good  deal. 
You  may  learn  much  from  so  complete  records  of  one  mind  as  his  works  are.    There  is  something  fearful 
in  coming  up  against  the  walls  of  a  mind  on  every  side  &  learning  to  describe  their  invisible  circumference" 
(JMN,  V,    187).     Emerson  understood,  as  well  perhaps  as  any  writer  one  knows,  what  it  was  to  search  for 
and  find  the  "walls"  of  another  writer'  s  mind.    It  was  the  task  he  engaged  in  through  most  of  his  reading 
and  much  of  his  writing,  and  undertook  it  first  and  primarily  in  regard  to  himself.    "Well,   &  what  do  you 
project?"  he  asked  himself  in  Goethean  fashion  on  his  first  return  from  Europe.    "Nothing  less  than  to  look 
at  every  object  in  its  relation  to  Myself"  (JMN,  IV,  272).    To  examine  the  consciousness  of  another  human 
being  has,  in  his  own  words,   "something  fearful"  about  it.    It  is  also,  however,  the  most  potentially  chal- 
lenging and  rewarding  of  efforts  . 

My  aim  in  this  paper  is  to  help  resolve  some  of  the  difficulties  involved  in  the  study  of  Emerson'  s 
development  by  looking  closely  at  the  mind  whose  "walls"  are  revealed  in  the  journals  in  which  he  made 
entries --sometimes  daily--for  most  of  his  life.    1  will  suggest  in  what  follows  that,  contrary  to  Whicher's 
view,  the  young  Emerson  sought  solitude  more  than  he  feared  it,  and  his  language  reveals  that  behind  this 
search  and  the  sense  of  transcendence  he  achieved  through  that  solitude  was  a  powerful  fear  of  intimacy 
and  human  interaction. 2    I  will  discuss  Emerson'  s  quite  personal  use  of  the  imagery  of  food  and  eating  and 
trace  the  way  that  usage  alters  to  reflect  changes  in  his  consciousness;    I  will  place  new  emphasis  on  the 
sense  of  deprivation  which  permeates  his  writings  about  his  childhood  and  discuss  his  early  fears  of  homo- 
sexuality and  the  effect  of  these  on  his  ideas  about  and  capacity  for  friendship.    Finally  I  will  suggest  that 
the  more  closely  we  look  at  his  language  and  the  consciousness  it  reflects,  the  more  clearly  we  will  under- 
stand the  humanity  and  depth  of  his  mature  vision,  which  is  perhaps  tempered  by  stoicism,  but  not  by  easy 
acceptance  of  "progress,  "    or  by  any  "retailing"  of  himself  as  a  commercial  product  of  "Victorian  rhap- 
sode. "3 

To  arrive  at  my  interpretations  of  Emerson'  s  consciousness  I  have  not  been  exclusive  or  schematic. 
Using  many  kinds  of  information,  I  have  primarily  concentrated  on  the  journals  which  coincide  with  Emer- 
son's  "early"  and  "late"  periods.    By  those  who,  like  Whicher  and  Bishop,  have  been  engaged  in  debating 
their  relative  merits  or  "usefulness,  "  these  eras  are  generally  taken  to  mean  the  period  just  before  and 
during  the  writing  of  Nature  (1834-1835)  and  the  period  around  and  after  Waldo'  s  death  (1842-1847).    My 
decision  to  stop  at  this  point  was  made  easier  by  the  fact  that  volume  IX  is  the  latest  published  in  the  new 
edition  of  the  Journals,  which  alone  can  be  regarded  as  full  and  trustworthy.    Such  insights  as  I  offer  come 
from  those  journals;  my  discussions  of  Emerson's  feelings  - -about  his  childhood,  for  instance--are  based 
on  his  own  diction.    Those  who  disagree  with  my  interpretations  must  turn,  as  I  have  done,  to  Emerson'  s 
own  language  to  find  his  vision  of  the  world. 

I 

Speaking  to  his  brother  Charles  one  day  in  the  late  summer  of  1835,   Emerson  became  aware  that 
his  thought  was  forming  itself  into  precise  visual  images  even  as  he  spoke  in  abstract  terms  of  Aristotle, 
of  Plato,  "&  of  the  Natural  Academy  by  which  the  exact  value  of  every  book  is  determined  maugre  all  hin- 
drance or  furtherance,  then  saw  I  as  I  spoke  the  old  pail  in  the  Summer  street  kitchen  with  potatoes  swim- 
ming in  it[,  ]  some  at  the  top,  some  in  the  midst,   &  some  lying  at  the  bottom;  &  1  spoiled  my  fine  thought 
by  saying  that  books  take  their  place  according  to  their  specific  gravity  '  as  surely  as  potatoes  in  a  tub'  " 
(JMN,  V,  78).     In  this  homely,  succinct,  and  instantaneous  image  the  reader  of  the  journals  may  see  two 
impulses  or  ideas  profoundly  characteristic  of  his  thought.    On  the  one  hand  is  a  representation  of  the  act 
of  rising,  a  representation  so  obsessive  that  it  can  amount  to  self -parody,  as  it  does  here,  and  as  Emerson 
is  aware.    On  the  other  hand  is  the  tub,  or  "old  pail"  itself,  for  Emerson  a  typical  image  of  the  "low." 


46 

Beyond  the  tub,  where  the  earth-encrusted  potatoes  soak  off  their  dirt,  is  a  kitchen,  in  the  ambience  of 
which  the  major  business  of  Emerson'  s  many  boardinghouse  homes  was  carried  on.    Reading  about  him, 
we  generally  hear  nothing  about  tub  or  kitchen,  or  what  they  may  represent  in  his  thought --though  we  learn 
much  about  transcendence  and  the  imagery  of  things  rising  upwards  .    If  we  would  understand  his  conscious- 
ness, however,  we  must  come  to  see  that  the  concept  of  transcendence  implies  the  existence  of  its  opposite 
and  that  there  is  a  complicated  and  symbiotic  relationship  between  the  two.    In  a  more  famous  passage,  he 
writes:    "I  saw  a  hawk  today  wheeling  up  to  heaven  in  a  spiral  flight  &  every  circle  becoming  less  to  the  eye 
till  he  vanished  into  the  atmosphere.    What  could  be  more  in  unison  with  all  pure  &  brilliant  images?    Yet 
is  the  creature  an  unclean  greedy  eater  &  all  his  geography  from  that  grand  observatory  was  a  watching  of 
barn  yards,  or  an  inspection  of  moles  &  field  mice.    So  with  the  pelican  crane  &  the  tribes  of  sea-fowl  -- 
disgusting  gluttons  all.    Yet  observe  how  finely  in  nature  all  these  disagreeable  individuals  integrate  them- 
selves into  a  cleanly  and  pleasing  whole"  (JMN,  IV,  281).      Emerson's  consciousness  has  structured  the 
imagery  here  as  it  did  in  the  passage  quoted  first.    The  hawk  is  lonely,  pure,  heaven -bound ,  and  free.  But 
this  vision  of  transcendence  is  no  sooner  conceived  than  it  is  attacked  by  feelings  of  disgust  and  revulsion: 
the  bird,   Emerson  remembers,  has  indissoluble  ties  with  what  is  low;  he  is  related  to  the  life  and  death 
cycles  of  other  living  things,  "disgusting  gluttons  all".    He  must  eat.    Try  as  he  will,  what  is  low  and 
earthy  cannot  be  quite  shut  out,  quite  denied.    But  the  tension  of  the  attempt  is  there,  providing  a  powerful 
dynamic  for  much  of  the  writer'  s  thought.    The  reader  of  the  early  journals  gradually  becomes  aware  that 
Emerson'  s  consciousness  is  largely  defined  by  the  parameters  of  three  things:    his  search  for  transcendence, 
his  need  for  solitude  in  which  to  climb  its  heights,  and  his  awareness  of  the  threats  from  the  impurities 
which  intimacy  and  social  interaction- -especially  as  these  are  represented  for  him  by  the  imagery  of  food 
and  eating- -would  thrust  upon  him.    How  these  three  elements  play  themselves  out  in  his  consciousness 
will  be  the  subject  in  the  first  portion  of  the  paper;  how  the  balance  among  them  changes  in  later  years  will 
be  discussed  in  Section  II. 

Man,   Emerson  liked  to  say  in  his  lectures,  is  always  rising,  even  from  the  gallows  or  brothel.      Dur- 
ing his  early  period,  almost  everywhere  he  looked  he  saw  affirmations  of  that  thought.    "I  would  be  as 
great  a  geographer  as  an  eagle  &  every  winter  like  a  bird  or  member  of  congress  go  south"  (JMN,  IV,  279). 
The  year  1834  is  one  of  increasing  elation  for  him  because  he  is  beginning  to  make  success  of  public  speak- 
ing and  writing  as  he  had  planned  to  do .     "The  high  prize  of  eloquence  may  be  mine[,  ]  "  he  notes  in  October, 
"the  joy  of  uttering  what  no  other  can  utter  &  what  all  must  receive"  (JMN,  IV,  324).    He  sees  himself  as  a 
potential  or  actual  success,  despite  all  his  early  handicaps,  and  to  express  his  vision  he  employs  the  cosmic 
imagery  of  stars  and  suns,  which  in  his  diction  is  always  positive.    His  phantasies  play  at  first  around  "the 
aspirant"  and  then  a  "brilliant  young  man."    The  "aspirant"  on  reaching  the  "first  circles"  instinctively 
knows  who  matters  most  and  attaches  himself  not  to  the  "conduits"  but  to  the  "fountains  of  honor."    Going 
one  step  further  he  becomes  himself  "the  Fountain  of  these  fountainlets .  .  .the  giver  of  all  fine  &  high  in- 
fluences" (JMN,  IV,  293).    A  few  months  later  the  same  phantasy  is  drawn,  but  in  higher,  more  cosmic 
imagery:     "A  brilliant  young  man  easily  becomes  a  satellite  to  some  rich  or  powerful  or  eloquent  man  or 
set  of  men  but  as  soon  as  he  reflects,  he  is  transformed  from  a  Satellite  into  a  central  orb,   &  rich  &  great 
&  kings  &  idols  revolve  around  him"  (JMN,  IV,  321).    Emerson  is  faithful  in  acknowledging  his  intellectual 
debts,  but  he  would  not  be  a  satellite;  he  would  be  a  star  in  his  own  right  and  shine  alone.    Intensely  excited 
as  he  is  throughout  much  of  this  year,  the  world  is  almost  literally  a  revelation  to  him:    "Is  not  man  in  our 
day  described  by  the  very  attributes  which  once  he  gave  his  God?    Is  not  the  sea  his  minister;  the  clouds  his 
chariot;  the  flame  his  wheels;  &  the  winds  his  wings?"  (JMN,  IV,  309). 

To  achieve  such  a  vision,  however,  and  to  feel  at  ease  within  the  cosmos  of  his  mind,   Emerson  must 
get  away  from  ordinary  society.    He  can  speak  successfully  in  public,  but  in  private  social  interaction  he 
feels  awkward.    His  manner  is  labored  and  stiff,  and  to  escape  his  embarrassment  he  would  withdraw:    "I 
study  the  art  of  solitude.    I  yield  me  as  gracefully  as  I  can  to  my  destiny.    Why.  .  .labor  to  keep  up  a  poor 
beginner's  place,  a  freshman's  seat  in  the  fine  worldf?]  "  (JMN,  V,   58).    Withdrawal,  however,  is  not  for 
him  merely  a  way  of  escaping  the  problems  of  human  interaction.    In  part,  as  Henry  Nash  Smith  has 
pointed  out,  solitude  plays  a  role  in  mediating  to  Emerson  his  literary  identity  as  a  Romantic. ^    Yet,  per- 
haps more  importantly,  loneliness  can  mediate  to  him  his  very  self,  that  sense  of  his  own  identity  which  is 
interpenetrated  by  consciousness  of  God'  s  vision.    In  a  fine  passage,  he  writes  that  man  needs  "to  retire 
as  much  from  his  solitude  as  he  does  from  society  into  very  loneliness .    While  I  am  reading  &  writing  in 
my  chamber  I  am  not  alone  though  there  is  nobody  there .    There  is  one  means  of  procuring  solitude  which 
to  me  &  I  apprehend  to  all  men  is  effectual,  &  that  is  to  go  to  the  window  and  look  at  the  stars .    If  they  do 


47 

not  startle  you  &  call  you  off  from  vulgar  matters  I  know  not  what  will.    I  sometimes  think  that  the  atmos- 
phere was  made  transparent  with  this  design  to  give  man  in  the  heavenly  bodies  a  perpetual  admonition  of 
God  &  superior  destiny.    Seen  in  the  streets  of  cities,  how  great  they  are!"  (JMN,  IV,  266-267). 

In  similar  fashion  he  had  gone  two  years  previously  alone  to  the  White  Mountains  when  he  was  in  the 
throes  of  deciding  to  resign  his  ministry.    There,  where  "a  few  low  mountains,  a  great  many  clouds  always 
covering  the  great  peaks,  a  circle  of  woods  to  the  horizon"  and  "two  other  travellers"  made  his  whole  pic- 
ture and  company--he  could  "solicit  the  soul"  (JMN,  IV,  29,  28).    Being  alone  not  only  intensified  his  inner 
consciousness;  it  could  also  make  the  outer  world  unreal.    He  took  such  occasions  as  he  could  to  induce 
these  feelings  and  enjoyed  interpreting  his  states  of  isolation  as  demonstrations  of  idealism .    Riding  the 
railroad,  he  found,  "One  has.  .  .a  practical  confirmation  of  the  ideal  philosophy  that  Matter  is  phenomenal 
whilst  men  &  trees  &  barns  whiz  by  you  as  fast  as  the  leaves  of  a  dictionary ....    The  very  permanence  of 
matter  seems  compromised  &  oaks,  fields,  hills,  hitherto  esteemed  symbols  of  stability  do  absolutely 
dance  by  you.    The  countryman  called  it  '  Hell  in  harness'  "  (JMN,  IV,  296;  see  also  277,  320).    Yet  the 
more  solitude  he  had,  the  more  he  needed.    He  perceived  his  obsessiveness  and  was  frightened  by  it.     Liv- 
ing in  Concord,  unemployed  except  for  his  writing,  he  wrote  late  in  November:    "I  perceived  in  myself  this 
day  with  a  certain  degree  of  terror  the  prompting  to  retire.    What!  is  this  lone  parsonage  in  this  thin  village 
so  populous  as  to  crowd  you  &  overtask  your  benevolence?    They  who  urge  you  to  retire  hence  would  be  too 
many  for  you  in  the  centre  of  the  desert  or  on  the  top  of  a  pillar"  (JMN,  IV,  342). 

If  we  ask  why  Emerson  needs  so  much  this  combination  of  solitude  and  transcendence,  we  are  not 
likely  to  be  satisfied  by  a  reference  to  his  religious  impulses .    Not  only  are  there  other  ways  of  express- 
ing and  experiencing  faith,  but  he  himself,  both  in  a  passage  quoted  above  and  elsewhere  (JMN,  IV,  329), 
indicates  that  in  solitude  and  creativity  he  finds  compensation  for  his  sense  of  social  defectiveness .    There 
is  more  to  his  withdrawal  from  interaction  than  compensation,  however.    That,  indeed,  may  even  be  sec- 
ondary.   At  a  deeper  level  and  to  a  significant  extent  Emerson  is  driven  inward  by  a  desire  to  escape  what 
he  sees  around  him  and  finds  unpleasant.    He  has  long  before  discovered  that,  wherever  he  is,  if  his  power 
of  will  be  sufficient,  solitude  may  be  as  much  a  state  of  mind  as  of  place,  may  be  an  alternative  to  undesir- 
able surroundings.     "Disengaged  manners  are  commanding,"  he  knows  (JMN,  V,  325),  but  the  act  of  emo- 
tional disengagement  does  more  than  keep  others  off  and  in  their  place;  it  also  frees  him  inwardly.    The 
famous  "crossing  the  common"  passage  probably  has  an  earlier  root  even  than  the  journal  entry  of  December 
8,  1834,  mentioned  by  Bishop."    We  find  a  similar  cluster  of  images  under  June,   1831:    "Wherever  goes  a 
man,  there  goes  a  great  soul.    I  never  more  fully  possess  myself  than  in  slovenly  or  disagreeable  circum- 
stances .    When  I  stamp  thro'  the  mud  in  dirty  boots ,  I  hug  myself  with  the  feeling  of  my  immortality .    I 
then  reflect  complacently  on  whatever  of  delicacy  is  in  my  taste,  of  amplitude  in  my  memory.    In  a  univer- 
sity I  draw  in  my  horns.    On  nothing  does  wise  man  plume  himself  so  much  as  on  independance  of  circum- 
stance, ]  that  in  a  kitchen,  or  dirty  street  or  sweltering  stage  coach,  he  can  separate  himself  from  impure 
contact  &  embosom  himself  in  the  sublime  society  of  his  recollections,  of  his  hopes,   &  of  his  affections . 
Ambassador  carries  his  country  with  him.    So  does  the  Mind"  (JMN,  III,  261).    In  this  relatively  early  and 
unsophisticated  statement  we  can  see  with  some  clarity  what  the  twenty-seven-year-old  feels  threatened  by. 
The  encroachment  is  "impure  contact" --mud,  street  sounds  and  sights,  being  crowded  and  touched,  being 
in  a  kitchen.    Emerson,  who  "would  be  an  eagle,"  would  prefer  not  to  know  that  impurity  exists.    These  un- 
sought intimacies,  evidences  of  our  common  humanity,  are  in  effect  the  "barnyard,  "  the  "moles  and  field 
mice"  above  which  the  spiraling  hawk,  that  "pure  and  brilliant  image, "  would  soar.    The  tension  and  awk- 
wardness, he  feels  as  he  attempts  to  withdraw  from  his  unwelcome  surroundings,  find  their  echo  in  his 
language,  and  he  has  created  an  awkward  ego  ideal  here  indeed,  a  self-conscious  "wise  man"  pluming  him- 
self, embosoming  himself  in  the  "sublime,  "  and  retreating  into  his  own  world  of  phantasy  "complacently" 
to  shut  the  door  and  contemplate  his  own  "delicacy  [and]   amplitude." 

Equally  awkward  and  uncomfortable  during  this  period  is  his  relation  to  the  subject  of  food  and  eating. 
If  being  alone  opens  for  him  the  doors  of  transcendence,  then  the  act  of  eating,  or  even  the  thought  of  food, 
shuts  them.    To  him  the  act  of  sharing  sustenance  is  not  one  of  social  communion,  or  in  any  way  the  posi- 
tive ritual  of  love  it  appears  to  be  in  our  culture  generally  or  in  the  Judeo -Christian  tradition.    Eating  is  a 
symbol  of  the  low,  gross,  and  self-indulgent;  frequently,  moreover,  it  is  associated  with  a  kind  of  mas- 
culinity that  may  be  aggressive,  destructive,  or  sexual.    Never,  during  this  early  period,  is  food  or  eat- 
ing associated  with  women  or  with  "feminine"  qualities .    Examples  abound;  I  give  only  a  few .    Typical  is 
this  comment  from  1832:    "One  would  think  that  the  hog,  that  walking  sermon  upon  Gluttony,  was  enough  to 


48 
turn  the  stomachs  of  all  men  from  intemperate  eating.    Then  was  ever  the  full  feeder  ready  for  religion?" 
(JMN,  IV,  5).     Emerson's  tone  here  is  brutal.    The  "full  feeder"  (like  the  "ready  milker"?)  is  only  half 
human  and  deserves  contempt.    ("Intemperance"  for  Emerson  refers  generally  to  eating  rather  than  to  any 
other  vice . ) 

Again,  although  he  is  normally  sensitive  in  tone  and  reluctant  to  use  strong  language,  he  defines  the 
eagle  he  would  like  to  be  by  contrasting  it  and  its  airborne  flight  with  earthbound  figures  whose  "obscenity" 
is  expressed  through  the  imagery  of  eating:    "There  are  people  who  read  Shakspear  for  his  obscenity  as  the 
glaucous  gull<^or  burgomaster^   is  said  to  follow  the  walrus  for  his  excrement.    I  would  be  as  great  a  geog- 
rapher as  an  eagle.  .  ."  (JMN,  IV,  279).    The  primary  obscenity  here  is  the  sexual  curiosity  of  certain 
readers.    (The  canceled  "burgomaster"  suggests  that  he  had  male  readers  in  mind.)   To  Emerson  this 
form  of  sexual  aggression  is  best  described  as  the  eating  of  excrement.    Similarly,  when  he  would  describe 
a  low-thinking  hypocrite  he  uses  an  image  of  piggish  masculinity,  describing  a  man  who  keeps  "one  eye. . . 
down  cellar"  with  the  "sausages  &  soapbarrels"  while  he  speaks  conventional  platitudes.    He  is  "basest 
when  the  snout  of  this  influence  touches  the  education  of  young  women"  (JMN,  IV,  351).    Again,  but  with  a 
certain  dry  humor,  he  notes  the  bad  and  greedy  manners  of  his  step -grandfather,  Dr.  Ezra  Ripley,  whom 
he  regards  as  precisely  a  model  of  those  strong  male  virtues  he  respects  but  does  not  much  like- -a  man 
truthful  and  strong,  but  "semi  -  savage, "  cold,  and  unsympathetic  (JMN,  IV,  338-339;  V,  71,  96,  et  passim). 
"Manners.    There  are  occasions  on  which  it  seems  not  much  can  be  said.    Dr.  R[ipley]  says  he  has  been 
eating  an  apple  of  which  he  sent  the  graft  to  Waterford  and  he  would  give  me  a  piece  but  that  he  has  just  eat 
it  up"  (JMN,  V,  65).    Elsewhere  he  describes  Ripley'  s  rigidity  by  saying  that  he  cannot  "'  eat  sponge  cake 
without  a  ramrod'  "  (JMN,  V,  21). 

The  potential  for  destruction  through  eating  is  in  Emerson'  s  mind  when,  at  another  time,  he  is 
troubled  by  the  attacks  of  the  petty  cares  of  life --diarrhea,  taxes,  the  "stinging  recollection  of. .  .a  very 
awkward  word[,  ]  "  etc.    Summing  up  his  anxiety  he  says,  "These  eat  up  the  hours"  (JMN,  V,   100).    The 
fear  of  male  destructiveness  is  even  more  clear  when  he  uses  the  imagery  of  eating  to  condemn  the  act  of 
methodically  probing  into  one'  s  own  creativity  rather  than  trusting  to  intuition.    Such  curiosity  he  sees  as 
a  reenactment  of  the  behavior  of  the  archetypal  father  who  destroys  his  progeny  by  eating  them:    "Saturn, 
they  say,  devoured  his  children,  thereby  presignifying  the  man  who  thought  &  instantly  turned  round  to  see 
how  his  thoughts  were  made.    The  hen  that  eats  the  egg"  (JMN,  V,  26).    The  difference  between  Saturn  and 
the  hen  is  that  for  the  latter  it  is  aberrant  behavior;  Saturn'  s  act  is  central  to  his  paradoxical  identity  as 
god  of  both  sowing  and  destruction. 

Eating  may  also  be  part  of  a  scene  of  social  interaction  at  which  male  rivalries  are  played  out.   Thus 
Emerson  perceives  his  own  "defects"  in  comparison  to  the  "talents  of  [other]   men"  when  he  appears  as  the 
"foolish  parlor  &  table  companion  that  I  am."    (In  compensation  for  these  constant  failures,  he  believes  he 
has  gained  from  them  the  wisdom  and  insight  which  makes  him  "a  bard  of  common  life"  [JMN,  IV,  329]  .) 
Virtue  and  self-control,  on  the  other  hand,  may  be  defined  through  the  denial  of  appetite:    "It  were  well  to 
live  purely,  to  make  your  word  worth  something.    Deny  yourself  cake  &  ale  to  make  your  testimony  irre- 
sistible" (JMN,  IV,  266;  see  also  IV,  308). 

Emerson  never  mentions  or  even  hints  at  awareness  of  sexual  passion  in  these  journals  except  in  re- 
lation to  an  adolescent  crush  he  had  on  another  boy,  to  be  discussed  below.    His  general  rejection  of  food 
and  eating  in  these  early  journals  may  well  stand  in  some  way  for  repression  of  sexual  appetite  and  espe- 
cially male  sexual  aggression. 

One  might  add  here  that  it  was  clearly  no  accident  that  when  he  was  deciding  to  resign  his  ministry 
and  seek  another  mode  of  life,  the  particular  act  he  could  no  longer  bear  to  undertake  was  the  service  of 
Communion.     His  choice  of  that  sacrament  no  longer  seems  arbitrary.    For  that  ritual  which  reenacts  the 
Last  Supper  by  the  public,  symbolic  eating  of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  may  be  generally  understood  as 
a  central  statement  of  religious  communitas,  but  Emerson'  s  private  associations  emptied  the  act  of  all 
positive  meaning  and  made  it  typify  the  deadness  of  ritual.    "Calvinism,  "  he  wrote  later,  is  a  "sucked  egg- 
shell" (JMN,  IV,  309).    In  that  phrase  and  its  tone  both  the  insubstantial,  hollow  creed  and  those  who  had 
primitively  and  greedily  "sucked"  its  nurture  stand  once  again  judged  and  discarded. 

If  we  inquire  into  the  origins  of  these  patterns  of  repression  and  anxiety  about  social  interaction  and 
the  act  of  eating,  we  must  turn  briefly  to  Emerson'  s  childhood. 8    it  is  probably  sufficient  to  say  that  after 


49 

the  death  of  Emerson'  s  father  (which  occurred  when  the  lad  was  eight)  the  family  was  severely  impover- 
ished, both  financially  and  emotionally.    Ruth  Emerson  kept  a  succession  of  not  very  successful  boarding- 
houses.    The  children  were  under  great  pressure  to  achieve  (to  gain  and  keep  scholarships,  for  example) 
and  were  sent  away  to  college- -and  almost  simultaneously  to  their  first  jobs  as  teachers  - -when  only  four- 
teen.   Emerson'  s  memories  of  his  early  life  are  all  sad  ones,  turning  on  deprivation,      the  loss  of  a  dollar 
with  which  he  was  to  have  bought  shoes  and  his  mother'  s  anger;  of  deprivation  of  the  chance  to  play  with 
other  boys  and  learn  to  be  one  of  them;  much  earlier  of  being  repeatedly  forced  off  something  like  a  wharf 
into  the  sea  by  his  father,  despite  phobia  of  the  water,  in  order  to  cure  him  of  a  skin  eruption.    At  home  he 
lived  in  a  basement  room  that  looked  out  on  a  backyard  littered  with  rubble;  his  kitchen  job- -scouring  the 
knives --was  undoubtedly  one  of  many  unpleasant  tasks .    Since  food  and  communal  eating  are  central  to 
boardinghouse  life,  perhaps  we  need  look  no  further  for  the  origin  of  his  food -disgust  and  his  association 
of  eating  with  masculine  aggression  and  sexuality.    He  must  often  have  been  made  aware,  through  the  well- 
bred  eyes  of  his  mother  and  maiden  aunt,  of  the  shortcomings  of  their  paying  guests  and  of  the  existence  of 
gluttony  and  bad  manners  at  the  table . 

As  if  ashamed  of  his  family'  s  social  position  and  not  wanting  to  think  about  it,  he  never  mentions 
directly  his  boardinghouse  experience,  even  though  it  was  the  central  fact  of  life  for  his  family  during  many 
years.    Twice,  however,  in  his  early  journals  and  later,  he  draws  on  this  experience,  both  times  negatively, 
to  describe  human  interaction  and  society  in  general.    Comparing  his  insignificance  in  1834  with  the  great- 
ness of  other  writers,  he  sees  himself  as  a  strange  kind  of  animal-servant:    "We  live[,  ]  animals  in  the 
basement  story[,  ]   &  when  Shakespeare  or  Milton  or  even.  .  .[Carlyle]  calls  us  up  into  the  high  region,  we 
feel  &  say  '  this  is  my  region,  they  only  show  me  my  own  property- -I  am  in  my  element[,  ]   I  thank  them  for 
it. '     Presently  we  go  about  our  business  into  the  basement  again,  cumbered  with  serving  &  assured  of  our 
right  to  the  halls  above,  we  never  go  thither"  (JMN,  IV,  274-275).    This  animal  metaphor,  very  complex  in 
its  tonalities,  is  based  on  the  anomaly  of  being  a  servant  in  a  house  one  owns  but  cannot  afford  to  enjoy  or 
experience- -exactly  Emerson'  s  own  position  as  a  youth- -and  the  boy'  s  unease,  his  touchiness,  his  help- 
lessness to  change  or  affect  his  environment  for  the  better,  his  desire  at  once  to  challenge  and  learn  from 
the  strangers  who  had  taken  possession  of  the  house- -are  all  superbly  caught  here.    At  a  considerably 
later  period,  he  described  society  as  "a  great  boardinghouse  in  which  people  of  all  characters  &  habits 
meet  for  their  dinner  &  eat  harmoniously  together;  but,  the  meal  once  over,  they  separate  to  the  most  un- 
like &  opposite  employments"  (JMN,  IX,  221).    Beneath  the  seeming  harmony  and  communal  life  of  a  board- 
inghouse, in  his  view,  is  an  atomistic  loneUness  and  isolation.    Such  falsity  must  have  seemed  repugnant 
to  a  sensitive  and  lonely  child .    He  and  his  brothers  were  determined  to  escape  this  world  and  to  take  their 
hard-pressed  family  with  them.    The  price  was  intense  self -discipline  and  self-denial.    They  were  only 
partly  equal  to  the  strain.    Two  brothers  died  of  the  same  tuberculosis  that  attacked  him  also,  but  which 
he  overcame,  and  one  of  the  two,  Edward,  suffered  a  mental  breakdown.    (To  complete  the  picture,  Emer- 
son' s  father  had  had  TB  as  well  as  the  cancer  that  killed  him;  a  brother,  Bulkeley,  was  mentally  incompe- 
tent and  needed  institutionalization;  and  another  sibling,  the  only  girl,  died  in  infancy.)    Though  he  succeeded 
in  making  his  escape,  the  habits  he  had  learned  early  of  repression  and  denial,  and  which  may  have  served 
some  partially  useful  function  originally,  later  on  made  his  adjustment  to  the  world  a  difficult  one  and 
limited  his  capacity  to  interact  with  normal  pleasure . 

The  young  Emerson  who  emerges  in  his  earliest  journals  is  a  man  in  full  flight  before  the  threats  of 
his  instinctual  life.    Intensely  lonely,  he  wishes  for  friendship  but  does  not  know  how  to  reach  out  for  it. 
Indeed,  he  is  hampered  by  a  deep-seated  fear  that  if  he  permits  intimacy  with  others  he  will  in  some  way 
be  damaged  by  it.    Close  friendships,  to  a  boy  unprepared  for  them,  can  carry  different  threats.    One  of 
these,  clearly,  can  be  the  fear  of  homosexuality.    A  fable  Emerson  writes  about  friendship  and  its  dangers 
expresses  some  of  these  problematic  feelings .    A  certain  amount  of  background  information  is  relevant 
here.    At  seventeen,  he  developed  an  "infatuation"  (Rusk'  s  word)  with  another  student  named  Martin  Gay. 
Emerson'  s  feelings  were  strong  and  lasted  over  two  years.    He  wrote  ardent  verse  to  Gay,  watched  his 
movements  with  great  interest,  and  brooded  over  their  chance  encounters  (JMN,  I,  22n.,  39-40,  52-53, 
94-95,  219-292,  et  passim  ).    Emotionally  the  experience  was  a  considerable  one  for  Emerson,  deserving 
more  attention  than  the  single  paragraph  his  biographer  has  given  it.  10   Because  it  is  conceivable  that  dis- 
cussion of  the  subject  may  still  arouse  controversy  or  misunderstanding,  I  wish  to  be  quite  explicit.    I  do 
not  suggest  that  Emerson  was  homosexual  but  that  like  most  men,  although  perhaps  to  a  greater  degree 
than  some,  because  of  the  difficulties  of  his  childhood,  he  had  as  a  young  man  doubts  about  his  social  and 
sexual  identity.    His  abortive  relationship  with  Gay  was  not  homosexual,  but  it  either  exacerbated  those 


50 
doubts  or  was  in  part  the  fruit  of  them .    These  unresolved  questions  of  identity  affected  his  relations  with 
society  in  general,  especially  during  his  early  period,  as  analysis  of  his  language  shows  .    What  is  signifi- 
cant—it must  be  stressed- -is  not  that  Emerson  felt  as  he  did  for  Gay  but  that,  given  his  feelings,  the  only 
way  he  could  handle  them  was  by  total  and  complete  repression  of  their  expression  except  in  his  journals . 
Gay  was  evidently  an  attractive,  intelligent,  relatively  worldly,  and  high-spirited  youth  who,  following  a 
period  of  rebelliousness,  became  a  highly  respected  doctor.    He  might,  in  fact,  have  been  the  kind  of 
friend  Emerson  needed  and  could  have  learned  from.    Emerson,  however,  never  permitted  himself  even  to 
meet  the  person  he  loved .    Another  boy  in  his  position  might  at  least  have  attempted  to  channel  and  control 
his  emotions  enough  to  make  friends  with  Gay,  but  he  did  not  dare  to  try.    Instead,  when  they  chanced  on 
each  other,  they  merely  stared  in  encounters  which  Emerson  found  upsetting.    Later,  when  he  had  success- 
fully established  his  career,  the  kinds  of  uncertainties  we  see  here  diminished  markedly.    But  as  a  late 
adolescent,  as  his  journal  shows,  rather  than  learning  how  better  to  interact  with  others,  he  learned  the 
reverse. 

More  than  a  year  after  the  last  entry  indicating  that  he  was  struggling  with  his  feelings  for  Gay  (JMN, 
II,  59),  the  journal  shows  that  he  had  been  reading  Hume'  s  history  of  England.    Hume  describes  at  length 
James'  s  exclusively  male  love  affairs,  especially  those  with  Robert  Carre  and  George  Villiers,  analyzing 
as  disastrous  the  personal  and  political  effects  of  such  relationships,  and  leaving  the  reader  in  no  doubt  as 
to  the  sexual  nature  of  James'  s  passion.  ^    After  referring  to  Hume'  s  comments  on  the  reign  of  James  I, 
Emerson  immediately  writes  a  phantasy  cast  as  a  cautionary  tale  of  a  friendship  that  went  too  far.    The  use 
of  diction  appropriate  only  to  marriage  is  so  obvious  that  it  needs  no  commentary.    "All  human  pleasures,  " 
Emerson  begins,   "have  their  dregs  &  even  Friendship  itself  hath  the  bitter  lees.    Who  is  he  that  thought  he 
might  clasp  his  friend  in  embraces  so  tight,  in  daily  intercourse  so  familiar  that  they  two  should  be  one? 
They  met  in  equal  conversation.    I  saw  their  eyes  kindle  with  the  common  hope  that  they  should  climb  life'  s 
hill  together  &  totter  down  hand  in  hand.    But  the  violent  flame  of  youthful  affection  rapidly  wasted  itself. 
They  foolishly  trusted  to  each  other  the  last  secret  of  their  bosoms,  their  weakness ....    These  erred  in 
fancying. .  .that  the  last  door  of  the  heart  should  be  unclosed,  and  even  its  secret  sensuality  revealed"  (JMN, 
II,  227-228).    Their  guilty  secret  (for  one  can  only  call  it  that)  thus  unveiled,  the  two  friends  "fell  in  each 
other'  s  respect;  they  slighted,  disliked,   &  ridiculed  each  other  &  regret  &  fear  remained  at  last  of  the  con- 
sequences of  the  implicit  confidence  of  their  violent  love"  (JMN,  II,  228).    Emerson  goes  on  to  remark  that 
this  "violent  fondness"  is  only  felt  for  "a  stranger,  of  whom  Nothing  is  known  &  nothing  will  come,  whose 
eye,  hair,  or  coat  takes  the  fancy.    So  James  I' s  propensity  to  favourites,  who  successively  disgusted  him. 
Misery  to  himself  &  seed  grew  out  of  his  intemperate  fondness  for  Robert  Carre,   &  George  Villiers"  (JMN, 
II,  228). 

A  decade  later  Emerson  felt  that  he  had  to  find  excuses  for  friendship,  explaining  that  the  seeking  of 
friends  aims  at  a  "purity  of  intercourse"  whose  object  is   "that  a  man  may  be  made  known  to  himself  to  an 
extent  that  in  solitude  is  not  practicable"  (JMN,  IV,  271).    (From  an  entry  dated  the  same  week,  March  22, 
1834,  it  is  apparent  that  the  seeds  of  his  essay,   "Self- Reliance, "  spring  from  the  ground  he  has  thus  pre- 
pared by  his  decidedly  ambivalent  approval  of  friendship:   JMN,  IV,  269.)    Even  at  so  late  a  date,  friend- 
ship is  justified  only  because  its  end  is  increased  self-knowledge.    The  fatuity  of  such  reasoning  was  evi- 
dently not  clear  to  the  young  widower .    What  is  evident  is  that  close  friendship  with  other  males  was  for 
most  of  Emerson'  s  early  life  perceived  by  him  as  a  threat. 

In  the  light  of  this  discussion  we  are  better  able  to  understand  a  decidedly  bizarre  story  Emerson 
wrote  when  he  was  eighteen,  dropping  it  into  his  journals  seemingly  without  any  connection  with  previous 
entries.    It  ends  equally  abruptly.    In  it,  a  "bearded  islander,  "  an  inhabitant  of  the  Pacific  Ocean,  tells  the 
tale  of  the  Siphars,  a  "vast  musical  apparatus"  which  proved  "fatal  to  us."    The  Siphars  were  trees  con- 
sisting of  "vast  trunks  perforated  by  a  multitude  of  natural  tubes  without  having  any  external  verdure .  When 
the  roots  of  these  were  connected  with  the  waters  of  the  river  the  water  was  instantly  sucked  up  by  some  of 
the  tubes  and  discharged  again  by  others  and  when  properly  echoed  the  operation  attended  by  the  most 
beautiful  musical  sounds  in  the  world"  (JMN,  II,  29-30).    The  islanders  were  worshippers  of  the  "Great 
Zoa."    (Zoa,  as  Emerson  knew,  is  the  plural  form  of  the  Greek  word  for  animal.)   Determining  to  build 
their  churches  to  the  "Great  Zoa"  around  these  objects,  they  succeeded  in  getting  together  a  great  number 
of  them  (jointly  called  "the  Organ")  beside  a  river,  enclosing  the  space  with  walls  made  of  "clay  and  stone.  " 
The  music  the  "Organ"  produced  was  so  ravishing  to  the  senses  it  soon  made  all  the  "hearers  mad. .  .with 
delight,  "  and  they  began  to  "dance,  "  not  noting  the  impending  "disaster."    There  was  an  "unusual  swell"  in 


51 
the  river  and  "owing  to  [that]  and  to  some  unaccountable  irregularity  in  the  ducts  the  pipes  began  to  dis- 
charge their  contents  within  the  chapel.    In  a  short  time  the  evil  became  but  too  apparent,  for  the  water 
rose  in  spouts  from  the  top  of  the  larger  ducts  and  fell  upon  the  multitudes  within. . . .    The  faster  poured 
the  water  the  sweeter  grew  the  music  and  the  floor  being  covered  with  the  torrent  the  people  began  to  float 
upon  it  with  intolerable  extacies .    Finally  the  whole  Multitude  swam  about  in  this  deluge  holding  up  their 
heads  with  open  mouths  and  ears  as  if  to  swallow  the  melody  whereby  they  swallowed  much  water ....   Many 
hundred  were  immediately  drowned  and  the  enormous  pipes  as  they  emptied  the  river  swelled  their  harmony 
to  such  perfection  that  the  ear  could  no  longer  bear  it  and  they  who  escaped  the  drowning  died  of  the  exqui- 
site music.    Thenceforward  there  was  no  more  use  of  the  Siphar  trees  in  the  Pacific  islands"  (JMN,  II,  30- 
31). 

The  sexual  nature  of  this  imagery  can  hardly  be  ignored.    In  an  exotic  setting,  a  presumarly  dark- 
skinned  people  are  worshipping  a  specifically  animal  god.    The  "vast  trunks"  that  encourage  them  in  their 
homage  are  named  "the  Organ";  bare  of  verdure,  perforated  by  "natural  tubes"  and  capable  of  responding 
to  an  "unusual  swell"  in  a  river  by  spontaneously  spouting  forth  water  which  is  also  music  ravishing  to  the 
senses  and  leaving  its  hearers  in  "intolerable  extacies  "--such  organs  are  indeed  worth  dreaming  about. 
(The  whole  story  has  much  the  quality  of  a  dream  retold.)    What  is  most  interesting  is  that  the  waters  which 
cause  these  "intolerable  extacies"  not  only  drench  the  worshippers  utterly  but  are  willingly  swallowed  by 
them.    (Note  that  it  is  the  swallowing- -not  the  dancing,  swimming,  or  any  other  reaction- -which  ultimately 
destroys  the  audience--the  eating  phobia  again.    It  is  as  if  eating  stood,  in  Emerson'  s  mind,  for  the  ulti- 
mate act  of  self-abandonment  leading  to  self-destruction.)   The  death  by  drowning  of  everyone  connected 
with  this  sacred  orgy  is  only  right,  given  the  clearly  homosexual  symbolism.    "They  who  escaped  the  drown- 
ing died  of  the  exquisite  music,  "  Emerson  notes  sternly.    To  give  oneself  up  to  this  pleasure  is  to  be  over- 
whelmed by  it;  the  pleasure  itself  is  fatal. 

Emerson  titled  his  next  entry  "Preface  to  Travels  in  the  Land  of  Not, "  writing  an  introduction  to  but 
not  actually  producing,  another  fable,  as  if  the  preceding  story  had  suggested  a  title  for  others  like  it  which 
were  then  not  forthcoming.    To  name  it  "The  Land  of  Not,"  however,  was  to  provide  an  appropriate  coda  to 
his  tale;  it  is  no  wonder  that  the  theme  did  not  prove  fecund.    The  issue  for  Emerson,  like  the  adoration  of 
a  friend  he  never  allowed  himself  to  meet,  was  a  Never -Never  Land,  a  closed  book  he  did  not  re -open. 
Close  friendships  ever  after  were  both  longed  for  and  avoided;  how  to  cross  the  gulf  between  himself  and 
humanity  was  problematic.    The  energies  thus  repressed  were  formidable;  he  made  much  use  of  them,  in 
altered  form,  in  later  years. 

II 

The  reader  who  comes  to  Emerson'  s  late  journals  (1842-1847)  after  immersion  in  those  of  the  period 
ending  in  1835  receives  early  an  impression  that  the  writer'  s  consciousness  has  changed  significantly.  The 
tone  of  voice  is  stronger,  more  sure.    Not  always  happy  by  any  means,  especially  immediately  following 
the  death  of  his  son  Waldo,  the  speaker  nevertheless  sounds  like  a  man  who  expects  to  be  understood.    He 
seems  more  integrated.    The  imagery  is  less  paradoxical;  the  tone  more  flexible  and  modulated.    Earlier 
one  often  had  the  feeling  that  the  speaker  was  straining,  calling  out  to  a  passerby  and  raising  his  voice  to 
be  heard- -seldom  true  now.    He  seems  more  at  east  with  his  audience --which  in  both  cases  has  been  the 
same  (or  not  the  same)- -himself.    We  are  more  aware  in  these  pages  of  the  people  who  inhabit  the  world 
around  him,  for  he  is  more  aware  of  them,  just  as  he  can  better  articulate  both  the  negative  emotions  of 
sadness  and  hostility  and  the  positive  ones  of  warmth  and  humor.    He  seems  closer  to  his  instinctual  life 
and  possesses  through  it  a  great  kinship  with  humanity.    He  even  seems  to  have  an  awareness  of  the  uncon- 
scious, speaking  prophetically  of  "the  Abyss,  Chaos,  and  Nox,"  as  he  calls  it- -the  repressed,  infantile  life 
of  man- -and  of  its  significance  in  giving  strength  to  conscious,  fully  developed  man.    His  dominant  attitudes 
have  changed  although  not  in  a  total  or  revolutionary  way,  and  one  can  find  traces  of  earlier  attitudes  in  his 
later  writings.    But  by  this  time  Emerson  has  looked  deep  into  himself  and  has  seen  much  of  profit  to  tell 
us. 

These  changes  are  immediately  apparent  if  we  look  at  his  use  of  the  imagery  of  food  and  eating.    His 
children  helped  mediate  this  new  vision.    "Nelly  smells  like  a  cakepan[,  ]  "  he  writes  of  his  infant  daughter 
(JMN,  VII,  399).    Instinct  has  become  acceptable;  the  association  of  food  with  a  primarily  masculine  ag- 
gression has  gone.    His  beloved  Waldo,  too,  makes  appetite  innocent:    "Little  Waldo  cheers  the  whole  house 
by  his  moving  calls  to  the  cat,  to  the  birds,  to  the  flies--'  Pussy  cat  come  see  Waddow!    Liddel  Birdy  come 


52 

see  Waddo!    Pies!  pies!  come  see  Waddo!'    His  mother  shows  us  the  two  apples  that  his  Grandfather  gave 
him,  &  which  he  brought  home  one  in  each  hand  &  did  not  begin  to  eat  till  he  got  nearly  home.    '  See  where 
the  dear  little  Angel  has  gnawed  them.    They  are  worth  a  barrel  of  apples  that  he  has  not  touched'  "  (JMN , 
VII,  42-43).    Often  he  sees  the  children  through  the  eyes  of  Lidian,  who  is  more  earthy  and  effusive,  but 
not  more  tender  than  he:    "Queenie  [his  wife]  looks  at  Edie  kicking  up  both  feet  into  the  air,   &  thinks  that 
Edie  says  '  The  world  was  made  on  purpose  to  carry  round  the  little  baby;  and  the  world  goes  round  the  sun 
only  to  bring  titty-time  and  creeping-on-the-floor-time  to  the  Baby'  "  (JMN,  VIII,  289).    He  has  seen  his 
children  nursing,  and  the  act  of  sucking  is  less  suspect.    He  shares  with  Lidian  the  role  of  doting  parent, 
as  he  can  share  her  language:    his  diction- -which  now  includes  "titty-time" --has  broadened  along  with  his 
humanity.    Eating  hereafter  represents  one  of  his  ties  to  mankind;  though  he  may  acknowledge  the  bond 
positively  or  reluctantly,  it  is  part  of  himself  and  not  an  alien  function.    He  still  prefers  among  men  a  kind 
of  noble  reserve  which  would  let  them  "sit  apart  as  the  gods  talking  from  peak  to  peak  all  round  Olympus" 
(JMN,  IX,  90).    He  would  still  "have  the  island  of  man  inviolate,  "  and  his  sense  of  offense  at  familiarity  is 
still  best  expressed  by  saying:    "[W]  hat  I  most  dislike  is  a  low  sympathy  of  each  with  his  neighbor'  s  palate 
&  belly  at  table,  anticipating  without  words  what  he  wishes  to  eat  &  drink.    If  you  wish  bread . .  .anchovies 
or  lobster,  ask  me  for  them,   &  do  not  hold  out  your  plate  as  if  I  knew  already"  (JMN,  IX,  9,  8).    But  even 
in  this  example,  one  of  the  strongest  of  his  late  uses  of  food  imagery,  the  old  intensity  of  disgust  is  miss- 
ing.   More  often  a  new  tone  is  heard,  recognizing  and  accepting  the  instinctual  needs:    "I  can  reason  down 
or  at  least  deny  every  thing  except  this  perpetual  belly.    Feed  he  must,   &  will,  and  I  cannot  make  him  re- 
spectable" (JMN,  IX,  394).     A  new  sense  of  irony  is  here.    Reason  and  respectability  both  have  their  limits, 
and  to  try  to  imprison  instinct  is  folly.    When  he  writes:    "Every  sane  man  has  tried  starving. . .  &  found 
that  it  did  not  give  him  blood  but  that  we  were  faint  &  dispirited,  "  he  is  describing  himself  (JMN,  IX,  277; 
see  also  n.  7).     Eating,  indeed,  may  now  represent  something  positive,  indicating  a  sense  of  being  a  man 
among  men:    "I  ate  whatever  was  set  before  me.    I  touched  ivy  &  dogwood.    I  kept  company  with  every  man 
in  the  road  for  I  knew  that  my  evil  &  my  good  did  not  come  from  these  but  from  the  spirit  whose  servant  I 
was,  for  I  could  not  stoop  to  be  a  circumstance  as  they  did  who  put  their  life  into  their  fortune  &  their  com- 
pany" (JMN,  IX,   116).     Food  is  still  an  image  of  contact,  but  the  contact  is  no  longer  degrading.    On  the 
contrary,  the  tone  of  the  speaker  seems  endowed  with  an  almost  magical  strength,  as  if  the  things  he  has 
touched  and  eaten  have  been  charms,  capable  of  passing  their  power  on  to  him. 

Nowhere,  perhaps,  is  his  new  sense  of  the  strength  of  the  instincts  and  recognition  of  the  power  they 
give  him  better  expressed  than  in  the  striking  comments  he  offers  on  public  speaking.    Recalling  and  re- 
creating his  address  "last  Wednesday, "  Emerson,  in  1844,  manipulates  the  imagery  of  wooing  and  sexuality 
until  he  stands  forth  as  a  kind  of  primal,  bisexual  creator  who  can  speak  with  equal  and  almost  Tiresean 
authority  to  both  men  and  women.    "But  I  speak  of  instincts,  "  he  writes  of  public  communication:    "I  did  not 
make  the  desires  or  know  anything  about  them:    I  went  to  the  public  assembly,  put  myself  in  the  conditions, 
&  instantly  feel  this  new  craving,  --I  hear  the  voice,  I  see  the  beckoning  of  this  Ghost"  (JMN,  IX,  71).   The 
experience,  as  we  shall  see,  is  daemonic  for  him--sacred  and  profane,  spiritual  and  physical  at  once:  "To 
me  it  is  vegetation,  the  pullulation  &  universal  budding  of  the  plant  man.    Art  is  the  path  of  the  creator  to 
his  work.    The  path  or  methods  are  ideal  and  eternal,  though  few  men  ever  see  them:    not  the  artist  him- 
self for  years,  or  for  a  lifetime,  unless  he  come  into  the  conditions.    Then  he  is  apprised  with  wonder  what 
herds  of  daemons  hem  him  in.    He  can  no  more  rest:  he  says,   '  By  God,  it  is  in  me  &  must  go  forth  of  me'  " 
(JMN,  IX,  71).    The  language  of  generation  is  powerful  here  and  will  grow  stronger.    The  speaker  is  one 
who  by  self -dedication  to  certain  sacred  "conditions  "--a  state  of  consciousness  that  puts  him  in  touch  with 
his  daemonic  powers --is  able  to  "enter  into  all  the  easily  forgotten  secrets  of  a  great  nocturnal  assembly" 
(JMN,  IX,  70).    By  that  power,  by  that  "fine  music. .  .he  should  have  his  audience  at  his  devotion  and  all 
other  fames  would  hush  before  his"  (JMN,  IX,  70-71).    Here  and  below,  of  course,  he  is  deliberately  using 
the  language  of  specifically  pagan,  as  well  as  religious,  veneration.    Now  under  pressure  of  his  "daemons" 
he  speaks  on,  "galvanized"  and  beside  himself:    "I  hear  myself  speak  as  a  stranger. ...    I  say  something 
which  is  original  &  beautiful.    That  charms  me.    I  would  say  nothing  else  but  such  things ....    Once  having 
tasted  this  immortal  ichor,  we  cannot  have  enough  of  it.    Our  appetite  is  immense"  (JMN,  IX,  72).     (The 
echoes  and  parallels  of  the  Siphar  story- -to  be  discussed  below- -are  striking.)    The  urge  to  give  expres- 
sion to  what  is  within  is  irresistible:    ". .  .it  is  of  the  last  importance  that  these  things  get  spoken.    What 
a  little  of  all  we  know,  is  said!    What  drops  of  all  the  sea  of  our  science  are  baled  up!    And  by  what  accident 
it  is  that  these  are  spoken,  whilst  so  many  thoughts  sleep  in  nature!  [H]     Hence  the  oestrum  of  speech: 
hence  these  throbs   &  heart  beatings  at  the  door  of  the  assembly  to  the  end,  namely,  that  the  thought  may 
be  ejaculated  as  Logos  or  Word"  (JMN,  IX,  72). 


53 

He  is  the  life  force  itself  in  these  moments.    He  not  only  woos  the  audience  like  a  lover,  but  his  de- 
scription of  his  act  is  heavy  with  bisexual  imagery.    "Ejaculation"  is  associated  with  male  sexuality  ; 
"oestrum"  means  specifically  the  female  animal'  s  period  of  heat  or  sexual  receptivity.    This  is  not  the 
first  time  that  Emerson  during  his  later  period  has  shown  himself  aware  that  a  healthy  sense  of  identity 
may  incorporate  both  male  and  female  elements.    Writing  in  1842  he  had  described,  clearly  with  himself 
in  mind,  the  "Man-woman"  saying  that,  ". .  .the  highly  endowed  man  with  good  intellect  &  good  conscience 
is  a  Man -woman  &  does  not  so  much  need  the  complement  of  Woman  to  his  being  as  another.    Hence  his 
relations  to  the  sex  are  somewhat  dislocated  &  unsatisfactory.    He  asks  in  Woman,  sometimes  the  Woman, 
sometimes  the  Man"  (JMN,  VIII,   175).    The  presence  of  the  two  elements  may  somewhat  disturb  interaction 
with  the  other  sex,  given  our  socially  determined  roles,  but  Emerson  evidently  perceives  them  in  them- 
selves as  a  source  of  strength.    By  1844  we  see  him  carrying  this  perception  a  little  further,  and  when  his 
performance  as  a  public  speaker  culminates  with  both  the  "ejaculation"  and  "oestrum"  of  the  "logos"  or 
Word,  it  reminds  us  by  his  use  of  the  Greek  that  Emerson  is  repeating  the  utterance  of  God'  s  word,  the 
primal  act  of  all  generation.    He  is  thus  male  and  female  not  only  in  his  sympathies,  but  in  his  God -like 
creativity.    He  is  not,  however,  yet  done.    "Say,"  he  goes  on,  "it  is  in  me  &  shall  out;  stand  there  baulked 
&  dumb,  stuttering  &  stammering,  hissed  &  hooted,  stand  &  strive  until  at  last  rage  draw  out  of  thee  that 
Dream -power  which  every  night  shows  thee  to  be  thine;  a  power  transcending  all  limit  &  privacy,  and  by 
virtue  of  which  the  man  is  the  conductor  of  the  whole  universe  of  electricity"  (JMN,  IX,  76).  This  is  re- 
markable language,  not  only  for  Emerson  but  for  any  man  of  his  age.    It  is  not  only  the  barely  disguised 
sexuality  of  the  language  and  rhythms,  so  consciously  and  so  effectively  manipulated,  which  makes  this 
true.    Nor  is  it  remarkable  merely  because  of  the  magnificence  of  his  assertion  that  he  can  be  in  moments 
of  inspiration  both  God  and  the  gods,  artist  and  nature,  man  and  woman.    What  is  most  striking  to  us  today 
is  that  he  is  clearly  aware  that  his  energy  stems  from  what  we  would  call  the  unconscious,  some  such  con- 
cept being  behind  this  sketch  of  the  "Dream-power"  (the  italics  are  his),  source  of  all  creative  energy,  a 
power  which  will  express  itself  most  naturally  in  sexual  terms.    One  cannot  know  precisely  when  or  how  he 
discovered  and  accepted  these  drives,  this  multiple  nature  within  himself,  but  his  new  language  and  tone 
point  to  a  knowledge  that  has  made  him  a  richer  and  more  powerful  writer . 

Parallels  with  the  Siphar  story  are  striking.    Both  describe  a  great  assembly  met  at  night  to  worship 
something  at  once  sacred  and  profane;  in  both  the  object  of  the  cult  represents  animal  life  or  the  life  force; 
in  both  the  culmination  of  the  act  of  worship- -which  has  been  intensely  pleasureable--is  a  powerful  ejacu- 
lation either  of  water  or  words  (though  in  the  second  example  also  Emerson  speaks  of  the  contents  as  being 
symbolically  an  ocean  or  drops  of  liquid).    Two  major  differences,  however,  are  illuminating.    In  the 
Siphar  story,  Emerson  as  author  is  at  two  removes  from  us,  telling  his  story  through  a  narrator,  and 
everyone  in  the  story  perishes  .    In  the  phantasy  of  the  act  of  public  speaking,  however,  he  himself  not  only 
enters  the  story,  but  also  is  the  object  of  adoration,  the  Great  Zoa  himself,  source  of  the  waters  of  life. 
His  activity  is  seen  not  as  punishable  by  death  but  as  rewaided  by,  and  rewarding,  life.    Not  incidentally, 
he  is  both  masculine  and  feminine  in  sexual  identity.    No  fear  of  homosexuality  is  here  and  no  punishment 
for  libidinal  expression;  he  has  integrated  both  sexes  within  himself  and  risen  to  the  level  of  Tiresean  seer . 
Though  he  wrote  the  two  pieces  twenty-two  years  apart,  the  basic  phantasy  is  fascinatingly  the  same--as  if 
at  a  certain  level  he  has  been  preoccupied  with  reenacting  all  his  mature  life  the  same  phantasy  of  creativity. 
The  difference  is  that  in  his  forties,  despite  the  traumatic  experience  of  Waldo'  s  death  and  his  own  attendant 
depression,  he  has  found  ways  of  finishing  the  phantasy  without  masochism.    By  accepting,  it  may  be,  what 
is  feminine  in  himself  he  has  been  able  to  integrate  himself  into  the  tale,  enter  it  in  his  own  person,  and 
gather  from  it  such  ego  -reinforcement  as  he  desires . 

Other  aspects  of  Emerson'  s  writing  also  reflect  a  consciousness  more  integrated  and  assured.  There 
is  more  interaction  among  the  figures  of  his  phantasy  and  less  egocentrism.    Figures  who  oppose  each 
other,  for  instance,  instead  of  flying  apart  tend  now  to  enter  into  dialogue.    And  for  the  conscious  few,  en- 
lightenment is  possible.    His  own  place  in  society  is  now,  through  his  own  efforts,  a  clear  and  established 
one.    Often  he  seems  galled  by  the  calls  on  his  time  which  are  made  by  friends  and  strangers.    Although 
he  is  very  discreet,  his  marriage  seems  occasionally  less  than  entirely  satisfactory.    The  large  house  he 
chose  to  have  in  Concord  eats  up  time  and  money:    "The  friction  of  this  social  machine  is  grown  enormous, 
&  absorbs  almost  all  the  power  applied"  (JMN,  IX,   189).    Yet  in  spite  of  these  frustrations  he  has  a  sense 
of  accomplishment --not  of  stasis  but  of  achievement.    He  turns  to  the  cosmic  imagery  he  has  so  often  used 
for  significant  statements  to  express  now  his  evolving  sense  of  self:    "As  the  solar  system  moves  forward 
in  the  heavens,  certain  stars  open  before  us  &  certain  stars  close  up  behind  us. . . .    How  great  were  once 


54 

Lord  Bacon'  s  dimensions!    he  is  grown  but  a  middlesized  man,   &  many  another  star  has  turned  out  to  be  a 
planet  or  an  asteroid ....    These  are  the  gracious  marks  of  our  own  growth.    Slowly  like  light  of  morning 
it  steals  on  us  the  new  fact  that  we  who  were  pupils  or  aspirants  are  now  society:   do  compose  a  portion  of 
that  head  and  heart  we  are  wont  to  think  worthy  of  all  reverence  &  heed:   we  are  the  representatives  of  re- 
ligion &  intellect,   &  stand  in  the  light  of  Ideas  whose  rays  stream  through  us  to  those  younger  &  more  in 
the  dark.    What  further  relations  we  sustain,  what  new  lodges  we  are  entering,  is  now  unknown"  (JMN,  VIII, 
127).    Only  seven  years  before  he  had  seen  himself  as  an  aspirant  and  had  wished  to  be  not  a  satellite  but 
an  orb.    Clearly,  in  this  happy  year  of  his  fatherhood,  he  has  achieved  some  part  of  that  ambition,  in  spirit 
if  not  in  letter.    Though  he  is  not  a  star,  he  is  a  prism,  and  if  he  does  not  know  what  the  future  holds,  he 
can  be  a  source  of  light  on  some  matters  to  others .    This  sense  of  himself  as  a  mediating  figure,  one  able 
to  interpret  multiple  sources  and  maintain  a  complex  series  of  dialogues,  is  central  to  his  mature  conscious- 
ness.   He  can  now  envisage  with  some  gentle  irony  a  God  who  plays  with  man  as  one  would  play  hide-and- 
seek  with  a  baby:    "Life  is  a  game  between  God  &  man.    The  One  disparts  himself  &  feigns  to  divide  into  in- 
dividuals .    He  puts  part  in  a  pomegranate,  part  in  a  king'  s  crown,  part  in  a  person.    Instantly  man  sees  the 
beautiful  things  &  goes  to  procure  them[.  ]    As  he  takes  down  each  one  the  Lord  smiles  &  says  It  is  your- 
self; &  when  he  has  them  all,  it  will  be  yourself.    We  love  &  die  for  a  beauty  which  we  wronged  ourselves 
in  thinking  alien"  (JMN,  IX,  207).    Not  only  does  God  know  more  than  man- -He  may  tell  him  all  the  answers, 
and  man  will  still  not  understand.    The  charm  and  the  sadness  of  the  passage  rest  in  its  depiction  of  the  at- 
tempt at  dialogue.    Doomed  though  they  may  be  to  failure,  only  by  such  efforts  shall  we  grow  at  all. 

Communication  between  the  high  and  low  is  again  at  issue  in  the  fable  of  the  mountain  and  the  squirrel. 
In  his  earlier  imagery,  extremes  are  often  paired  and  played  off  against  each  other,  as  if  for  the  sake  of 
their  innate  dynamic  tension.    We  recall  the  hypocrite  with  his  "eye  down  cellar"  and  his  "snout"  touching 
the  "education  of  young  women;"  the  hawk,  circling  above  its  prey;  or  the  man  who  went  to  the  window,  saw 
the  stars,  and  was  "startled."    Effective  though  it  is,  something  nervous  and  compulsive  appears  in  such 
imagery.    That  effect  is  less  common  now,  and  when  Emerson  invents  contrasting  figures,  he  tends  to  in- 
volve them  in  dialogues  from  which  enlightenment- -and  humor- -may  flow.    Thus  when  the  mountain  calls 
the  squirrel  "little  prig"  "Bun  replied  You  are  doubtless  very  big  but  all  sorts  of  weather  must  be  taken  in 
together  to  make  a  year  &  a  world .    And  I  think  it  no  disgrace  to  occupy  my  proper  place  /  If  I  am  not  so 
large  as  you,  /  You  are  not  as  small  as  I  /  If  I  cannot  carry  forests  on  my  back  /  Neither  can  you  crack  a 
nut"  (JMN,  IX,  205).    Our  sympathies  here  are  engaged  by  a  creature  who  is  not  only  minute  but  whose 
special  powers  are  expressed  by  his  talents  for  chewing.    Moreover,  Bun  defends  himself  well:    to  be  low 
and  to  be  busy  eating  are  no  longer  to  be  automatically  the  victim  of  a  stronger  aggressor. 

The  increased  sense  of  communication- -whether  with  individuals,  God,  or  the  universe- -is  accom- 
panied by  a  diminished  sense  of  striving  for  superiority  or  the  higher  role.    There  is  more  acceptance  of 
negative  feelings  and  less  need  to  deny  them.    Though  Waldo'  s  death  may  have  tested  the  development  of 
this  tendency,  it  did  not  in  the  long  run  alter  it .    The  depth  of  Emerson'  s  reaction  to  this  tragedy  has  often 
been  commented  on,  and  his  journals  reflect  his  unhappiness  both  with  himself  and  with  other  people.    "I 
am  not  united, "  he  burst  out  a  couple  of  months  after  the  six-year-old  had  died.    "I  am  not  friendly  to  my- 
self, I  bite  &  tear  myself.  .  . .    When  will  the  day  dawn  of  peace  &  reconcilement  when  self-united  &  friendly 
I  shall  display  one  heart  &  energy  to  the  world[?]"  (JMN,  VIII,  236-237).    That  Emerson'  s  grief  should 
have  taken  the  form  of  a  sense  of  inner  disunion  and  failure  of  energy  is  not  surprising,  for  Waldo'  s  Life 
had  meant  precisely  a  strengthening  of  the  father'  s  sense  of  integrity  and  identity.    Because  the  child'  s  life 
had  been  enormously  important  for  Emerson,  the  tenderness  expressed  in  the  journals  for  him  is  greater 
than  that  for  any  other  person.    One  must  understand  that  for  Emerson  to  have  a  son  was  in  some  sense  to 
heal  the  wound  left  by  his  own  loss  of  his  father;  it  was,  in  a  way,  a  chance  to  replay  the  scene  as  it  should 
have  been. 

Yet,  in  spite  of  this  tragedy,  the  current  that  had  already  set  in  towards  a  larger  sense  of  life  was 
not  stopped  permanently.    (One  might  mention  in  passing  that  the  loving  description  quoted  above  of  the 
baby  Edie  kicking  her  heels  was  written  only  nine  months  after  Waldo'  s  death.)    By  1845  he  could  write, 
under  the  heading  "Inward  Miracles:"    "That  which  so  mightily  annoyed  &  hampered  us  ceases  utterly  &  at 
unawares.    We  wist  not  how  or  whence  the  redemption  came.    What  so  rankled  at  heart,   &  kept  the  eyes 
open  all  night,  and  which,  we  said,  will  never  down;  lo!  we  have  utterly  forgot  it;  cannot  by  any  effort  of 
memory  realize  it  again. . . .    The  crises  in  our  history  come  so.    Thus  they  steal  in  on  us,  a  new  life  which 
enters,  God  knows  how,  through  the  solidest  blocks  of  our  old  thoughts  &  mental  habits.  .  . .    The  miracles 


55    • 
of  the  spirit  are  greater  than  those  of  the  history"  (JMN,  IX,  341).    These  are  the  words  of  a  man  who  has 
suffered  but  who  has  learned  to  live  with  himself  and  who  has  found  his  best,  at  last,  sufficient.    He  is 
stronger  than  before.    He  is  also  sadder- -or  perhaps  only  more  articulate  now  and  less  repressive  of  nega- 
tive feelings.    A  poignant  long  paragraph  describes  superbly  the  lifelong  sense  of  loneliness  which  he  now 
accepts  rather  than  try  to  transmute  it  into  something  else:    "Men  go  through  the  world  each  musing  on  a 
great  fable  dramatically  pictured  &  rehearsed  before  him.    If  you  speak  to  the  man,  he  turns  his  eyes  from 
his  own  scene,   &  slower  or  faster  endeavors  to  comprehend  what  you  say.    When  you  have  done  speaking, 
he  returns  to  his  private  music.    Men  generally  attempt  early  in  Life  to  make  their  brothers  first,  after- 
wards their  wives,  acquainted  with  what  is  going  forward  in  their  private  theatre,  but  they  soon  desist  from 
the  attempt  on  finding  that  they  also  have  some  farce  or  perhaps  some  ear-  &  heart-rending  tragedy  forward 
on  their  secret  boards  on  which  they  are  intent,  and  all  parties  acquiesce  at  last  in  a  private  box  with  the 
whole  play  performed  before  himself  solus"  (JMN,  IX,  236).    The  tone  and  the  slow  cadences  are  untinged 
either  by  self-pity  or  superiority  but  are  at  once  gentle  and  inexorable.    We  watch  those  plays  because  we 
wish  to;  what  we  do  not  choose  is  to  watch  them  alone.    Yet  we  wish  to  be  individuals,  to  see  with  our  own 
eyes.    We  choose  and  do  not  choose,  then,  to  be  alone--an  ironic  paradox.    Such  a  view  has  in  it  the  capa- 
city for  tragic  depth  that  Whicher  has  remarked  on.  13    Francis  Fergusson  once  declared  that  a  requisite 
of  tragic  figures  is  that  we  see  them  "take  it  on  the  chin.  "14   Something  of  that  is  here  in  Emerson'  s  con- 
frontation with  the  problem  of  man'  s  inescapable  and  self-willed  loneliness . 

He  has  been  faulted  for  developing  during  this  period  a  point  of  view  his  critic  calls  "objective  or- 
ganicism,  "  a  vision  of  life  which  sees  a  "beneficent  forward  motion  of  the  total  universe"  and  which,  be- 
cause of  "Victorian  illusion,  "  believes  in  "ameliorative  evolution. "15    Certainly,  the  nature  of  Ms  imagery 
has  changed.    The  dynamics  of  it  no  longer  come  from  the  nervous  juxtaposition  of  opposites.    But  this  is 
not  to  say  that  Emerson'  s  vision  has  descended  to  an  easy  optimism  or  that  he  has  assumed  the  role  of 
"Victorian  rhapsode. "1°    The  contrary  is  true.    It  is  because  he  is  more  in  touch  with  the  life  around  him-- 
with  the  "ivy  &  dogwood,  "  with  the  food  that  was  set  before  him- -that  his  imagery  is  more  straightforward 
in  its  motion,  that  it  speaks  of  growth  and  communication,  and  that  it  can  ultimately  confront  death  and 
loneliness  without  making  man  seem  smaller  in  the  process . 

A  passage  written  in  1845  epitomizes  in  a  striking  fashion  the  development  we  have  been  describing 
here.    He  begins  by  reflecting  on  the  value  of  speech  to  civilization,  comparing  the  history  of  Man  to  that 
of  men.    Children  "unable  to  express  their  desires. .  .scream  &  stamp  with  fury.    As  soon  as  they  can 
speak  &  plainly  tell  their  want. .  .they  become  gentle"  (JMN,  IX,  324).    But  uncivilized  energy  is  fully  as 
necessary  as  the  guidance  of  reason:    "There  must  be  the  Abyss,  Nox,   &  Chaos  out  of  which  all  come,   & 
they  must  never  be  far  off.    Cut  off  the  connexion  between  any  of  our  works  &  this  dread  origin  &  the  work 
is  shallow  &  unsatisfying"  (JMN,  IX,  325).    What  children  are  to  men,  the  wordless  "abyss"  is  to  conscious- 
ness.   This  source  of  our  power  must   "never  be  far  off";  we  must  not  be  alienated  from  it.    Emerson  en- 
visages a  massive  figure  of  Man  holding  a  dialogue  with  the  universe:    "There  is  a  moment  in  the  history 
of  every  nation  when.  .  .the  man. .  .extends  across  the  entire  scale,   &  with  his  feet  still  planted  on  the  im- 
mense forces  of  night,  converses  by  his  eyes  &  brain  with  solar  &  stellar  creation.    That  is  the  moment 
of  perfect  health,  the  culmination  of  their  star  of  Empire"  (JMN,  IX,  325).    The  ideal  is  now  neither  a 
star,  nor  eagle,  nor  Lord  Bacon,  but  a  majestic  man  who  gains  his  strength  and  stature  from  his  roots  in 
earth,  "night, "  and  all  the  forces  of  instinctual  life.    Yet  for  all  this  he  is  neither  immortal  nor  divine, 
and  in  the  next  paragraph  Emerson'  s  sense  of  tragic  loss  and  yearning  break  out:    "Ah,  let  the  twilight 
linger!    We  love  the  morning  spread  abroad  among  the  mountains,  but  too  fast  comes  on  the  broad  noon 
blaze,  only  exposing  the  poverty  &  barrenness  of  our  globe,  the  listlessness  &  meanness  of  the  inhabitants" 
(JMN,  IX,  325).    "Ah,  let  the  twilight  linger!"    It  is  no  faith  in  "objective  organicism"  that  speaks  here,  no 
belief  in  "ameliorative  evolution."    The  dawn  is  best.    It  is  better  to  be  trying  out  one'  s  powers,  still  in 
touch  with  feeling  and  instinct,  than  to  see  the  world  bereft  of  mystery,  heated  and  impoverished  by  a 
withering  glare  of  Light  by  analysis  that  demeans  what  it  would  understand.    To  say  it  out,  to  utter  the  sor- 
row, is  to  assert  man'  s  dignity  in  the  face  of  loss. 

When  Emerson  says  in  the  passage  quoted  as  an  epigram  to  this  paper  that  he  no  longer  sees  phoe- 
nixes but  that  the  "sacred  emblems  are  transferred  to  the  walls  of  the  world, "  he  means,  I  think,  that  the 
vision  of  a  sacred  presence  he  has  entertained  is  no  longer  merely  a  private  insight;  the  phoenixes  do  not 
dance  for  him  only.    He  is  aware  that  he  is  part  of  the  sorry  world  which  looks  best  in  half- Light,  mean- 
est when  seen  at  noon.       But  the  vision  of  beauty  which  he  sees  now  he  can  share  with  others  (it  has  been 


56 
"transferred  to  the  walls  of  the  world")  precisely  because  he  knows  the  beautiful  bird  to  be  part  of  his  own 
consciousness,  created  by  himself.    He  has,  so  to  speak,  seen  "the  Lord  smile,  "  and  heard  Him  tell  man 
of  beauty:    "It  is  yourself."    Emerson  has  understood  that  riddle,  and  his  "usefulness,"  if  we  question  it, 
may  lie  in  his  willingness  to  tell  us  what  it  means . 


1  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  The  Journals  and  Miscellaneous  Notebooks  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  Wm. 
H.  Gilman,  Alfred  R.  Ferguson  et  al.,  9  vols .  (Cambridge,  Mass.:  Harvard  Univ.  Press,   1960-1971),  IX, 
171-172.    Subsequent  references  to  these  Journals  will  be  included  in  the  text  as  JMN  with  the  appropriate 
volume  and  page  numbers  . 

2  Stephen  E.  Whicher,   Freedom  and  Fate:    An  Inner  Life  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (N.Y.:  Barnes,   1961), 
p.  62.    Cited  hereafter  as  Whicher. 

3  Jonathan  Bishop,  Emerson  on  the  Soul  (Cambridge,  Mass .:  Harvard  Univ.  Press,  1964),  pp.  202,  217. 
Cited  hereafter  as  Bishop. 

4  Towns  end  Scudder,  The  Lonely  Wayfaring  Man:  Emerson  and  Some  Englishmen  (London:  Oxford,   1936), 
p.  97. 

5  Henry  Nash  Smith,  "Emerson'  s  Problem  of  Vocation,  "  Emerson:  A  Collection  of  Critical  Essays,  ed. 
M.  R.  KonvitzandS.  E.  Whicher  (Englewood  Cliffs:  Prentice -Hall,  1962),  p.  67.  6    Bishop,  p.  14. 

7  At  times  there  is  a  definite  strain  of  morbidity  in  Emerson'  s  rejection  of  food.    In  1832,  despite  his 
having  suffered  previously  from  a  variety  of  debilitating  illnesses,  he  actually  tried  to  reduce  the  amount 
he  ate,  triumphantly  recording  the  daily  shortening  of  his  rations- -from  14  ounces  to  13,  and  so  on  (JMN, 
IV,  6).    His  Aunt  Mary  believed  that  one  of  his  earlier  illnesses  had  been  brought  on  by  "fasts"  as  well  as 
overwork.    See  Ralph  L.  Rusk,  The  Life  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (N.Y. :  Scribner'  s,   1949),  p.  111. 
Cited  hereafter  as  Rusk. 

8  For  the  facts--but  not  necessarily  their  interpretation- -regarding  Emerson's  early  life,  the  Emerson 
household,  and  the  ill-health  of  his  family,  see  Rusk,  chaps.  3,  4,  6,  and  7;  esp.  pp.  23-24,  60-61,  69, 
127,  206,  230. 

9  Unfortunately  Emerson  did  not  begin  to  keep  his  journals  until  he  was  sixteen,  and  one  finds  mostly 
silence  when  one  reads  the  early  volumes  for  commentary  on  or  memories  of  Ins  childhood.    He  did  not 
often  permit  himself  to  evoke  that  period  even  when  he  was  in  his  forties.    (See  JMN,  IX,  293-295;  for  a 
single  sentence  see  IV,  263.)    His  descriptions  of  his  early  life,  which  appear  in  his  daughter'  s  still  un- 
published memoir,  evidently  agree  with  his  comments  in  vols.  VIII  and  IX  in  depicting  his  childhood  as 
thoroughly  miserable.    Rusk,  however,  dismisses  as  "unrealistic"  and  exaggerated  both  Emerson'  s  own 
memories  and  the  testimony  of  "tradition"  regarding  the  "gray"  unhappiness  of  those  early  years.    (Rusk, 
p .  24  and  notes  thereto . ) 

10  Rusk,  p.  85.    An  excerpt  from  some  poetry  which  is  a  "disguised  address"  to  Martin  Gay,  in  the  view 
of  the  editors  (JMN,  I,  291n.)  gives  a  sense  of  the  eighteen  year -old  Emerson'  s  feelings:    "Malcolm,  I 
love  thee  more  than  women  love  /  And  pure  and  warm  and  equal  is  the  feeling  /  Which  binds  us  and  our  des  - 
tinies  forever..."  (JMN,  I,  292). 

11  David  Hume,  The  History  of  England vol.  IV  (Boston:  Phillips,   1851),  426  ff.,  435,  494,  505,  et 

passim. 

12  For  another  approach  to  this  tale,  see  Kenneth  W.  Cameron,  "Emerson  and  Hydrostatics:  The  Siphars, 
ESQ,  XLVIII  (III  quarter,   1967),  93-99;  also  F.  Y.  St.  Clair,   "Emerson  Among  the  Siphars,  "  AL,  XIX 
(March,   1947),  73-77.  13    Whicher,  pp.  109-111. 

14    In  my  hearing  at  a  seminar  some  years  ago .         15    Bishop,  pp.  216-217.         16    Bishop,  p.  11. 


* 


Passages  from  The  Journals  and  Miscellaneous  Notebooks  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  vols.  II 
through  IX,  Wm.  H.  Gilman  et  al.  eds.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  The  Belknap  Press  of  Harvard  University- 
Press,  Copyright  1961,  1963,  1964,  1965,  1969,  1970  and  1971  by  the  President  and  Fellows  of 
Harvard  College,  are  included  by  permission  of  the  publishers. 


57  Q^ 

THE  FRESHNESS  OF  TRANSFORMATION  Q^>  *v° 

&& 
OR  EMERSON  ON  INFLUENCE 

Stevens,  closing  the  second  part,  It  Must  Change,  of  Notes  toward  a  Supreme  Fiction,  proclaimed  the 
"will  to  change,  a  necessitous  /  And  present  way,  a  presentation,  "  that  brings  about  "the  freshness  of  trans- 
formation."   But  though  this  transformation  "is  ourselves,  "  the  Seer  of  Hartford  was  too  wily  not  to  add  a 
customary  qualification: 

And  that  necessity  and  that  presentation 

Are  rubbings  of  a  glass  in  which  we  peer. 

Of  these  beginnings,  gay  and  green,  propose 

The  suitable  amours .    Time  will  write  them  down. 

Stevens  died  in  1955,  and  many  suitable  amours  concerning  various  beginnings  have  been  proposed 
since  then.    Pound,   Frost,   Eliot,  Williams,  Moore  are  gone,  among  other  major  figures,  and  Crane  and 
Roethke  were  ended  prematurely  in  a  subsequent  generation.    Jarrell  and  Berryman,  whose  achievements 
were  more  equivocal,  have  taken  on  some  of  the  curious  lustre  that  attends  the  circumstances  of  such 
deaths  .    Contemporary  American  poetry  is  a  more  than  usually  elaborate  panorama,  replete  with  schools 
and  programmes,  with  followers  enough  for  all,  and  readers  available  for  only  a  few.    Even  the  best  of  our 
contemporary  poets,  whether  of  any  grouping  or  of  none,  suffer  a  burden  wholly  appropriate  to  the  valley  of 
vision  they  hope  to  have  chosen,  a  burden  more  important  finally  than  the  immediate  sorrows  of  poetic  over- 
population and  the  erosion  of  a  literate  audience.    Peering  in  the  glass  of  vision,  contemporary  poets  con- 
front their  too-recent  giant  precursors  staring  back  at  them,  inducing  a  profound  anxiety  that  hides  itself 
but  cannot  be  evaded  totally.    The  partial  evasions  of  this  anxiety  can  be  identified  simply  as  the  styles  and 
strategies  of  contemporary  verse,  despite  the  overt  manifestos  to  the  contrary  at  which  current  poets  seem 
more  than  usually  adept.    The  anxiety  of  influence,  a  melancholy  at  a  failure  in  imaginative  priority,  still 
rages  like  the  dog-star  in  recent  poetry,  with  the  results  that  Pope  observed.    Poetically,  one  may  call  ours 
the  Age  of  Sirius,  the  actual  cultural  equivalent  of  the  fictive  counter -cultural  Age  of  Aquarius: 

The  dog-star  rages!    nay  '  tis  past  a  doubt,  Fire  in  each  eye,  and  papers  in  each  hand, 

All  Bedlam,  or  Parnassus,  is  let  out:  They  rave,  recite,  and  madden  round  the  land. 

I  write  these  pages  after  passing  an  educational  hour  watching  an  array  of  revolutionary  bards,  black 
and  white,  chanting  on  television.    Their  exhilarating  apparent  freedom  from  the  anxiety  of  influence  is  in- 
structive.   Ignorance  of  it  does  not  render  even  the  most  inchoate  rhapsode  free  of  so  necessitous  a  malady. 
Mixed  into  the  tide  of  rhetoric  came  the  recognizable  detritus  of  the  precursors,  ranging  from  the  American 
Sublime  of  Whitman  to  the  sublime  pathos  of  the  Imamu  Baraka,  yet  containing  some  surprises --of  Edna 
Millay  shining  clear  in  a  black  poetess,  or  of  Edgar  Guest  in  a  revolutionary  balladeer,  or  of  Ogden  Nash 
in  a  particularly  ebullient  open-former. 

If  we  move  to  the  other  extreme  of  contemporary  achievement,  say  Ashbery'  s  Fragment  or  Ammons' 
Saliences ,  then  we  confront,  as  readers,  far  more  intense  cases  of  the  anxiety  of  influence,  for  Ashbery 
and  Ammons,  and  some  others  in  their  generation,  have  matured  into  strong  poets.    Their  best  work,  like 
Roethke'  s  or  Elizabeth  Bishop'  s,  begins  to  demand  the  same  immense  effort  of  the  whole  being  to  absorb 
and  resist  as  is  required  by  the  strongest  American  poets  born  in  the  last  three  decades  of  the  Nineteenth 
century:    Robinson,  Frost,  Stevens,  Pound,  Moore,  Williams,   Eliot,  Aiken,  Ransom,  Jeffers,  Cummings, 
Crane.    Perhaps  no  single  reader  greatly  admires  all  of  these  dozen- -I  do  not --but  the  work  seems  to  abide, 
admired  or  not.    Pound  and  Williams  primarily,  Stevens  more  recently,  Frost  and  Eliot  now  rather  less  so, 
have  been  the  principal  influences  upon  American  poets  born  in  the  twentieth  century,  but  all  these  twelve 
poets  have  descendants,  and  all  of  them  induce  massive  anxieties  of  influence,  though  the  Pound -Williams 
schools  (there  are  clearly  several)  emulate  their  precursors  by  a  remarkable  (and  damaging)  overt  refusal 
to  recognize  such  anxieties.    But  poets,  for  three  hundred  years  now,  at  least,  have  joined  in  denying  these 
anxieties  even  as  they  more  and  more  strongly  manifest  them  in  their  poems . 


58 
The  war  of  American  poets  against  influence  is  part  of  our  Emersonian  heritage,  manifested  first  in 
the  great  triad  of  "The  Divinity  School  Address,  "  "The  American  Scholar,"  and  "Self-Reliance."    This  heri- 
tage can  be  traced  in  Thoreau,  Whitman,  Dickinson,  and  quite  directly  again  in  Robinson  and  Frost,  in  the 
architectural  writings  of  Sullivan  and  Wright,  in  the  Essays  Before  a  Sonata  of  Charles  Ives.    The  less-direct 
heritage  is  more  relevant  to  any  brooding  on  the  negative  aspects  of  poetic  influence,  centering  partly  on 
Pound  and  Williams  (where  it  is  refracted  through  Whitman)  and  partly  on  Stevens,  who  disliked  the  very 
idea  of  influence . 

This  distaste  is  a  proper  characteristic  of  all  Modern  (meaning  Post- Enlightenment  or  Romantic)  poets, 
but  peculiarly  so  of  American  poets  coming  after  our  prophet  (however  now  unhonored)  Emerson.    I  like 
Charles  Ives'  remark  upon  Emerson's  ambitions:    "His  essay  on  the  pre-soul  (which  he  did  not  write) 
treats  of  that  part  of  the  over-soul'  s  influence  on  unborn  ages,  and  attempts  the  impossible  only  when  it 
stops  attempting  it."    Call  Emerson  the  over-soul,  and  then  contemplate  his  influence  upon  American  poets 
who  had  read  him  (Like  Jeffers)  and  those  who  had  not,  but  who  read  him  in  his  poetic  descendants  (like 
Crane,  who  read  his  Emerson  in  Whitman).    It  can  be  called  the  only  poetic  influence  that  counsels  against 
itself,  and  against  the  idea  of  influence.    Perhaps  in  consequence,  it  has  been  the  most  pervasive  of  Ameri- 
can poetic  influences,  though  partly  unrecognized.    In  Nineteenth-century  America,  it  operated  as  much  by 
negation  (Poe,  Melville,  Hawthorne),  as  by  discipleship  (Thoreau,  Very,  Whitman)  or  by  a  dialectical  blend 
of  the  two  relations  (Dickinson,  Tuckerman,  the  Jameses). 

In  a  journal  entry  (21  July  1837)  Emerson  recorded  an  insight  that  made  possible  his  three  anti -in- 
fluence orations  -  essays  of  1837  -  1840:     "Courage  consists  in  the  conviction  that  they  with  whom  you  con- 
tend are  no  more  than  you.    If  we  believed  in  the  existence  of  strict  individuals,  natures,  that  is,  not  radi- 
cally identical  but  unknown(,)  immeasurable,  we  should  never  dare  to  fight"  (JMN,  V,  344-345). 

This  striking  use  of  "individuals"  manifests  Emerson'  s  acute  apprehension  of  the  sorrows  of  poetic 
influence,  even  as  he  declines  to  share  these  sorrows .    If  the  new  poet  succumbs  to  a  vision  of  the  pre- 
cursor as  the  Sublime,  "unknown,  immeasurable,  "  then  the  great  contention  with  the  dead  father  will  be 
lost.    We  can  remember  the  demi-god  Milton  of  the  Age  of  Sensibility,  the  quasi -nature-deity  Wordsworth 
of  the  later  Nineteenth  century,  and  in  our  time  that  Gnostic  divinity,  Yeats,  and  our  own  current  daemon 
of  the  American  Sublime,  Stevens.    Emerson,  shrewdest  of  all  visionaries,  early  perceived  the  accurate 
enemy  in  the  path  of  aspiring  youth:    "Genius  is  always  sufficiently  the  enemy  of  genius  by  over -influence." 

Though  we  rightly  blame  Emerson  for  our  capitalistic  reactionaries  as  well  as  for  our  shamanistic 
revolutionaries,  for  the  whole  range  that  goes  from  Henry  Ford  to  the  Whole  Earth  Catalog,  his  own  medi- 
tations forestall  our  observations.    His  broodings  against  influence,  starting  in  1837,  took  their  origins  in 
the  great  business  Depression  of  that  year.    Confronting  individualism  in  its  terrible  freedom,   Emerson 
developed  a  characteristic  antithetical  notion  of  the  individual:    "Every  man  is  an  infinitely  repellent  orb, 
and  holds  his  individual  being  on  that  condition."    Most  remarkably,  the  journal -meditations  move  to  a  great 
self-recognition  on  May  26,   1837:    "Who  shall  define  to  me  an  Individual?    I  behold  with  awe   &  delight 
many  illustrations  of  the  One  Universal  Mind.    I  see  my  being  imbedded  in  it.    As  a  plant  in  the  earth  so  I 
grow  in  God.    I  am  only  a  form  of  him.    He  is  the  sOul  of  Me.    I  can  even  with  a  mountainous  aspiring  say, 
I  am  God,  by  transferring  my  Me  out  of  the  flimsy  &  unclean  precinct  of  my  body,  my  fortunes,  my  private 
will. .  .  .    Yet  why  not  always  so?    How  came  the  Individual  thus  armed  and  impassioned  to  parricide  thus 
murderously  inclined  ever  to  traverse  &  kill  the  divine  life?    Ah  wicked  Manichee!    Into  that  dim  problem  I 
cannot  enter.    A  believer  in  Unity,  a  seer  of  Unity,  I  yet  behold  two.  .  .  .  (JMN,  V,  336-337). 

The  enormous  split  here  is  central  in  Emerson,  pervades  his  conflicting  ideas  of  influence,  and  is  as 
relevant  to  contemporary  poets  as  it  was  to  Whitman,  Robinson,  Stevens,  Crane,  Roethke.    Turning  off  the 
television  set,  I  open  the  Sunday  book  supplement  of  the  newspaper  to  behold  a  letter  from  Joyce  Carol  Oates, 
novelist,  poet,  critic,  that  replies  to  a  reviewer:    "It  is  a  fallacy  of  our  time,  hopefully  coming  to  an  end, 
that  'individuals'  are  competitive  and  what  one  does  lessens  possibilities  for  another.  ...    I  believe  that 
some  day. .  .all  this  wasteful  worrying  about  who  owns  what,  who  'owns'  a  portion  of  art,  will  be  finished.  .  . . 
In  America,  we  need  to  get  back  to  Whitman  as  our  spiritual  father,  to  write  novels  of  the  kind  that  might 
have  grown  out  of  '  Leaves  of  Grass  . '     Whitman  understood  that  human  beings  are  not  really  in  competition, 
excluded  from  one  another.    He  knew  that  the  role  of  the  poet  is  to  'transfigure'  and  'clarify'  --and,  in  that 
way,  sanctify.  ..." 


59 
This  moving  passage,  by  a  talented  ephebe  of  Dreiser,  indeed  is  in  Whitman'  s  tradition,  and  so  also 
in  Emerson's.    The  over -idealization  of  literature  here  is  normal  and  necessary,  for  the  writer  in  a  writer, 
a  self  constrained  to  deny  its  own  selfhood.    So  Blake  grandly  noted,  after  reading  Wordsworth,  that:   "This 
is  all  in  the  highest  degree  Imaginative  and  equal  to  any  Poet  but  not  Superior .    1  cannot  think  that  Real  Poets 
have  any  competition.    None  are  greatest  in  the  Kingdom  of  Heavenf;]  it  is  so  in  Poetry."    Critics,  who  are 
people  in  search  of  images  for  acts  of  reading,  and  not  of  writing,  have  a  different  burden,  and  ought  to 
cease  emulating  poets  in  the  over -idealization  of  poetry. 

Blake  would  have  insisted  that  only  his  Spectre  of  Urthona,  and  not  the  Real  Man  the  Imagination  in 
him,  experienced  anxiety  in  reading  Wordsworth,  or  in  reading  their  common  father,  Milton.    Blakean 
critics,  like  Frye,  too  easily  join  Blake  in  this  insistence.    But  this  is  not  the  critic's  proper  work,  to  take 
up  the  poet's  stance.    Perhaps  there  is  a  power  or  faculty  of  the  Imagination,  and  certainly  all  poets  must 
go  on  believing  in  its  existence,  but  a  critic  makes  a  better  start  by  agreeing  with  Hobbes ,  that  imagination 
is  "decaying  sense,  "  and  that  poetry  is  written  by  the  same  natural  man  or  woman  who  suffers  daily  all  the 
inescapable  anxieties  of  competition. 

Emerson  set  out  to  excel  "in  Divinity,  "  by  which  he  meant,  from  the  start,   "eloquence,  "  to  the  last- 
ing scandal  of  certain  American  moralists  from  Andrews  Norton  to  Yvor  Winters .    He  tells  his  notebook, 
on  April  18,   1824,  a  month  before  his  twenty-first  birthday:    "I  cannot  dissemble  that  my  abilities  are  be- 
low my  ambition. . . ,  "  but  he  cheerfully  adds:    "What  we  ardently  love  we  learn  to  imitate"  and  so  he  hopes 
"to  put  on  eloquence  as  a  robe"  (JMN,  II,  238,  242).     Certainly  he  did,  and  he  learned  therefore  the  first 
meaning  of  his  idea  of  Self-Reliance:    "Every  man  has  his  own  voice,  manner,  eloquence.  ..."    He  goes  on 
to  speak  of  each  person'  s  "sort  of  love  and  grief  and  imagination  and  action,  "  but  these  are  afterthoughts . 
The  American  orator-poet  requires  singularity  in  "voice,  manner,  eloquence,  "  and  if  he  has  that,  he  trusts 
he  has  all,  or  almost  all. 

The  primary  Emerson  is  this  confident  orator,  who  as  late  as  1839  can  still  say,  in  his  journals, 
that:    "It  is  the  necessity  of  my  nature  to  shed  all  influences ."    Mixed  into  this  primary  strain  is  a  yearning 
to  be  influenced,  but  only  by  a  Central  Man  who  is  yet  to  come.    In  1845,  a  year  before  his  Bacchic  inten- 
sity-of-reaction  against  the  Mexican  War,   Emerson  characteristically  began  those  expectations  of  a  new 
man-god  that  emerged  more  fully  in  1846.    In  the  1845  Journals,  the  tone  might  be  called  the  apocalyptic- 
wistful:    "We  are  candidates,  we  know  we  are,  for  influences  more  subtle  and  more  high  than  those  of 
talent  and  ambition.    We  want  a  leader,  we  want  a  friend  whom  we  have  not  seen.    In  the  company  and  fired 
by  the  example  of  a  god,  these  faculties  that  dream  and  toss  in  their  sleep  would  wake.    Where  is  the  Genius 
that  shall  marshal  us  the  way  that  we  were  going?   There  is  a  vast  residue,  an  open  account  ever.    [51]  The 
great  inspire  us:    how  they  beckon,  how  they  animate,  and  show  their  legitimate  power  in  nothing  more  than 
their  power  to  misguide  us .    For  the  perverted  great  derange  and  deject  us ,  and  perplex  ages  with  their 
fame.  .  . .    This  is  that  which  the  strong  genius  works  upon;  the  region  of  destiny,  of  aspiration,  of  the  un- 
known. ..." 

We  might  follow  Nietzsche,   Emerson'  s  admirer,  and  note  that  as  Apollo  represents  each  new  poet'  s 
individuation,  so  Dionysus  is  emblematic  of  each  poet'  s  return  to  his  subsuming  precursors.    Some  such 
realization  informed  Emerson's  dilemma,  for  he  believed  that  poetry  came  from  Dionysian  influx,  yet  he 
preached  an  Apollonian  Self-Reliance  while  fearing  the  very  individuation  it  would  bring.    "If  only  he  sees, 
the  world  will  be  visible  enough,  "  is  one  Emersonian  formula  carrying  this  individuation  to  the  borders  of 
a  sublime  solipsism.    Here,  expounding  nature's  supposed  method,  is  a  greater  formula:    "His  health  and 
greatness  consist  in  his  being  the  channel  through  which  heaven  flows  to  earth,  in  short,  in  the  fulness  in 
which  an  ecstatical  state  takes  place  in  him.    It  is  pitiful  to  be  an  artist,  when  by  forbearing  to  be  artists 
we  might  be  vessels  filled  with  the  divine  overflowings,  enriched  by  the  circulations  of  omniscience  and 
omnipresence.    Are  there  not  moments  in  the  history  of  heaven  when  the  human  race  was  not  counted  by  in- 
dividuals, but  was  only  the  Influenced,  was  God  in  distribution,  God  rushing  into  multiform  benefit?    It  is 
sublime  to  receive,  sublime  to  love,  but  this  lust  of  imparting  as  from  us,  this  desire  to  be  loved,  the  wish 
to  be  recognized  as  individuals,  --is  finite,  comes  of  a  lower  strain." 

This  beautiful  confusion  is_ beautiful  because  the  conflict  is  emotional,  between  equal  impulses,  and  be- 
cause it  cannot  be  resolved.    Influx  would  make  us  Bacchic,  but  not  individuated  poets;  Self-Reliance  will 
help  make  us  poets,  but  "of  a  lower  strain,  "  short  of  ecstatic  possession.    Emerson'  s  relative  failure  as  a 


60 
writer  of  verse  ("failure"  only  when  measured  against  his  enormous  bardic  aspirations)  is  caused  by  this 
conflict,  and  so  is  his  over -valuation  of  poetry,  a  poetry  never  yet  written,  as  he  too  frequently  complains. 
He  asks  for  a  stance  simultaneously  Dionysiac   and  Self-reliant,  and  he  does  not  know  how  this  is  to  be  at- 
tained, nor  do  we.    I  suggest  that  the  deeper  cause  for  his  impossible  demand  is  his  inner  division  on  the 
burden  of  influx,  at  once  altogether  to  be  desired  and  yet  altogether  to  be  resisted,  if  it  come  to  us  (as  it 
must)  from  a  precursor  no  more  ultimately  Central  than  ourselves . 

But  this  is  not  just  the  native  strain  in  Emerson;  it  is  the  American  burden.    It  came  to  him  because, 
at  the  right  time  in  our  cultural  history,  he  bravely  opened  himself  to  it,  but  by  opening  to  it  with  so  as- 
tonishing a  receptivity  to  oppositions ,  he  opened  all  subsequent  American  artists  to  the  same  irreconcilable 
acceptance  of  negations  .    Post -Emersonian  American  poetry,  when  compared  to  Post-Wordsworthian 
British  poetry,  or  Post-Goethean  German  poetry,  or  French  poetry  after  Hugo,  is  uniquely  open  to  influenc- 
ings,  and  uniquely  resistant  to  all  ideas -of-influence .    From  Whitman  to  my  contemporaries,  American 
poets  eagerly  proclaim  that  they  reject  nothing  that  is  best  in  past  poetry,  and  as  desperately  succumb  to 
poetic  defence  mechanisms,  or  self-malformings,  against  a  crippling  anxiety  of  influence.    Emerson, 
source  of  our  sorrow,  remains  to  be  quarried,  not  so  much  for  a  remedy  as  for  fuller  apprehension  of  the 
malady.    The  crux  of  the  matter  is  a  fundamental  question  for  any  Post -Enlightenment  poet,  but  peculiarly 
acute  for  American  poets  .    It  could  be  phrased:   In  becoming  a  poet,  is  one  joining  oneself  to  a  company  of 
others  or  truly  becoming  a  solitary  and  single  one?    In  a  sense,  this  is  the  anxiety  of  whether  one  ever 
really  became  a  poet,  a  double -anxiety:    Did  one  truly  join  that  company?   Did  one  become  truly  oneself? 

In  his  essay,  Character ,  Emerson  emphasized  the  fear  of  influence:    "Higher  natures  overpower  lower 
ones  by  affecting  them  with  a  certain  sleep.    The  faculties  are  locked  up,  and  offer  no  resistance.    Perhaps 
that  is  the  universal  law.    When  the  high  cannot  bring  up  the  low  to  itself,  it  benumbs  it,  as  man  charms  down 
the  resistance  of  the  lower  animals .    Men  exert  on  each  other  a  similar  occult  power.    How  often  has  the  in- 
fluence of  a  true  master  realized  all  the  tales  of  magic!    A  river  of  command  seemed  to  run  down  from  his 
eyes  into  all  those  who  beheld  him,  a  torrent  of  strong  sad  light,  like  an  Ohio  or  Danube,  which  pervaded 
them  with  his  thoughts  and  colored  all  events  with  the  hue  of  his  mind"  (W,  IV,  94). 

This  flood  of  light, v which  Emerson  taught  his  descendants  to  fear,  rather  curiously  ran  down  upon 
them  from  his  eyes .    As  he  himself  said  in  the  essay  Politics:    "The  boundaries  of  personal  influence  it  is 
impossible  to  fix,  as  persons  are  organs  of  moral  or  supernatural  force"  (W,  III,  205).    Property,  he  cun- 
ningly added,  had  the  same  power.    As  eloquence,  to  Emerson,  was  identical  with  personal  energy,  elo- 
quence was  necessarily  personal  property,  and  the  dialectics  of  energy  became  the  dialectics  also  of  com- 
merce . 

At  his  most  apocalyptic,  as  throughout  the  troubling  year  1845,  when  he  wrote  his  best  poems,  Emer- 
son again  denied  the  anxiety  of  influence,  as  here  in  "Uses  of  Great  Men"  from  Representative  Men:    "We 
need  not  fear  excessive  influence.    A  more  generous  trust  is  permitted.    Serve  the  great.    Stick  at  no  hu- 
miliation.   Grudge  no  office  thou  canst  render.    Be  the  limb  of  their  body,  the  breath  of  their  mouth.    Com- 
promise thy  egotism.    Who  cares  for  that,  so  thou  gain  aught  wider  and  nobler?   Never  mind  the  taunt  of 
Boswellism:    the  devotion  may  easily  be  greater  than  the  wretched  pride  which  is  guarding  its  own  skirts . 
Be  another:     not  thyself,  but  a  Platonist;  not  a  soul,  but  a  Christian;  not  a  naturalist,  but  a  Cartesian;  not 
a  poet,  but  a  Shakesperian .    In  vain,  the  wheels  of  tendency  will  not  stop,  nor  will  allthe  forces  of  inertia, 
fear,  or  of  love  itself  hold  thee  there.    On,  and  forever  onward!"  (W,  IV,  29-30). 

Though  this  over -protests,  it  remains  haunted  by  the  unfulfillable  maxim:    "Never  imitate."    Has 
Emerson  forgotten  his  own  insight,  that  one  must  be  an  inventor  to  read  well?    Whatever  "we"  means,  in 
his  passage,  it  cannot  mean  what  it  meant  in  a  great  notebook  passage  behind  "Self-Reliance":    "We  are  a 
vision."    Rather  than  multiply  bewildering  instances    of  Emerson  on  all  sides  of  this  dark  and  central  idea, 
we  do  him  most  justice  by  seeking  his  ultimate  balance  where  always  that  must  be  sought,  in  his  grandest 
essay,  "Experience."    Solve  this,  and  you  have  Emerson-on-influence,  if  he  can  be  solved  at  all:    "Thus 
inevitably  does  the  universe  wear  our  color,  and  every  object  fall  successively  into  the  subject  itself.    The 
subject  exists,  the  subject  enlarges;  all  things  sooner  or  later  fall  into  place.    As  I  am,  so  I  see;  use  what 
language  we  will,  we  can  never  say  anything  but  what  we  are;  Hermes,  Cadmus,  Columbus,  Newton,  Bona- 
parte are  the  mind'  s  ministers .    Instead  of  feeling  a  poverty  when  we  encounter  a  great  man,  let  us  treat 
the  newcomer  like  a  traveling  geologist  who  passes  through  our  estate  and  shows  us  good  slate,  or  limestone, 


61 

or  anthracite,  in  our  brush  pasture.  The  partial  action  of  each  strong  mind  in  one  direction  is  a  telescope 
for  the  objects  on  which  it  is  pointed.  But  every  other  part  of  knowledge  is  to  be  pushed  to  the  same  extra- 
vagance, ere  the  soul  attains  her  due  sphericity"  (W,  III,  79-80). 

The  blindness  of  the  strong,   Emerson  implies,  necessarily  constitutes  insight.    Is  the  insight  of  the 
strong  also  blindness?    Can  a  soul  duly  spheral  be  enough  of  an  unseeing  soul  to  go  on  writing  poetry?    Here 
is  the  gnomic  poem  that  introduces  "Experience": 


The  lords  of  life,  the  lords  of  life,  -- 

I  saw  them  pass, 

In  their  own  guise, 

Like  and  unlike, 

Portly  and  grim, 

Use  and  Surprise, 

Surface  and  Dream, 

Succession  swift,  and  spectral  Wrong, 

Temperament  without  a  tongue, 

And  the  inventor  of  the  game 


Omnipresent  without  name;-- 
Some  to  see,  some  to  be  guessed, 
They  marched  from  east  to  west: 
Little  man,  least  of  all, 
Among  the  legs  of  his  guardians  tall, 
Walked  about  with  puzzled  look. 
Him  by  the  hand  dear  Nature  took; 
Dearest  Nature,  strong  and  kind, 
Whispered,  "Darling,  never  mind! 
Tomorrow  they  will  wear  another  face, 
The  founder  thou;  These  are  thy  race!" 

(W,  III,  43) 


This  is  the  Emerson  of  about  1842,  and  if  no  longer  a  Primary,  he  is  not  quite  a  Secondary  Man.    The 
lords  of  life  (and  "Life"  was  the  first  title  for  "Experience")  are  a  rather  dubious  sevenfold  to  inspire  any 
poet,  and  the  more-than-Wordsworthian  homely  nurse,  Nature,  offers  little  comfort.    If  these  are  the  gods, 
then  man  is  sensible  to  be  puzzled.    But  it  all  goes  with  a  diabolically  cheerful  (though  customarily  awkward) 
lilt,  and  the  indubitable  prophet  of  our  literary  self-reliance  seems  as  outrageously  cheerful  as  ever. 
There  aren'  t  any  good  models  in  this  procession,  and  man,  Nature  assures  us,  is  their  model,  but  we  are 
urged  to  yet  another  mode  of  Self-Reliance  anyway.    "Ne  te  quaesiveris  extra, "  but  what  is  it  to  seek  your- 
self even  within  yourself?    Does  the  essay  "Experience,  "  in  giving  us,  as  I  think  it  does,  a  vision  beyond 
skepticism,  give  us  also  any  way  out  of  the  double-bind  of  poetic  influence? 

"We  thrive  by  casualties,  "  Emerson  says,  and  while  he  means  "random  occurrences"  he  could  as  well 
have  meant  "losses.  "   But  these  would  have  been  casual  losses,  given  up  to  "those  who  are  powerful  obliquely 
and  not  by  the  direct  stroke."    Very  charmingly,  Emerson  says  of  these  masters,  that  "one  gets  the  cheer 
of  their  light  without  paying  too  great  a  tax."    Such  an  influence,  Emerson  himself  hoped  to  be,  but  Thoreau 
and  even  Whitman  paid  a  heavy  tax  for  Emersonian  light,  and  I  suspect  many  contemporary  Americans  still 
pay  something,  whether  or  not  they  have  read  Emerson,  since  his  peculiar  relevance  now  is  that  we  seem 
to  read  him  merely  by  living  here,  in  this  place  still  somehow  his,  and  not  our  own.    His  power  over  us  at- 
tains an  elevation  in  an  astonishing  recovery  from  skepticism  that  suddenly  illuminates  "Experience":    "And 
we  cannot  say  too  little  of  our  constitutional  necessity  of  seeing  things  under  private  aspects ....    And  yet  is 
the  God  the  native  of  these  bleak  rocks  ....    We  must  hold  hard  to  this  poverty,  however  scandalous,  and  by 
more  vigorous  self -recoveries ,  after  the  sallies  of  action,  possess  our  axis  more  firmly"  (W,  III,  81). 

After  this,  Emerson  is  able  to  give  us  a  blithe  prosehst  of  "the  lords  of  life":    "Illusion,  Tempera- 
ment, Succession,  Surface,  Surprise,  Reality,  Subjectiveness, "  and  in  accepting  these  he  gives  us  also 
his  escape  from  conflicting  attitudes  towards  influence:    "All  I  know  is  reception;  I  am  and  I  have:   but  I  do 
not  get,  and  when  I  have  fancied  I  had  gotten  anything,  I  found  I  did  not."    But  there  speaks  the  spheral  man, 
the  all -but -perfect  solipsist  who  made  Thoreau  almost  despair,  and  whom  Whitman  emulated  only  to  end  in 
the  grief-ridden  palinode  of  "As  I  Ebbed  With  the  Ocean  of  Life."    Charles  Ives,  deeply  under  the  influence 
of  Emerson'  s  late  "Prudence,  "  movingly  remarks:    "Everyone  should  have  the  opportunity  of  not  being 
over -influenced."    Stevens,  a  less  candid  Emersonian,  is  far  closer  to  "Experience"  in  his  ecstatic  mo- 
mentary victories  over  influence : 


I  have  not  but  I  am  and  as  I  am,  I  am. 

. . . Perhaps , 
The  man-hero  is  not  the  exceptional  monster 
But  he  that  of  repetition  is  most  master . 


62 
Emerson  says:    "I  am  and  I  have, "  because  he  receives  without  self -appropriation:    "I  do  not  get." 
Stevens  says:    "I  have  not  but  I  am,  "  because  he  does  not  receive,  but  appropriates  for  himself  through 
mastering  the  repetition  of  his  own  never-ending  meditation  upon  self.    Emerson  is  the  more  perfect  solip- 
sist,  and  yet  also  the  more  generous  spirit,  thus  getting  the  better  of  it  both  ways  .    Stevens,  the  better 
poet  but  the  much  less  transcendent  consciousness,  is  less  persuasive  in  proclaiming  an  ultimate  Self-Re- 
liance.    In  this,  he  does  not  differ,  however,  from  all  our  Emersonian  poets,  whether  voluntary  like  Whit- 
man, Robinson,  Frost,  or  involuntary  like  Dickinson  and  Melville.    Stevens,  too,  who  saw  himself  as  "A 
new  scholar  replacing  an  older  one,  "  became  another  involuntary  ephebe  of  the  Supreme  Fiction  of  our 
literature,   Emersonian  individualism. 

Recoiling  from  the  consequences  of  an  all-repellant  individualism,  Emerson  opted  first  for  Dionysiac 
influx,  and  later  for  the  dominance  of  that  other  Orphic  presence,  Ananke,  who  opposed  herself  to  the  indi- 
vidual as  his  own  limitations  perceived  under  the  mark  of  a  different  aesthetic,  the  beauty  of  Fate.    For 
Emerson'  s  was  an  aesthetic  of  use,  a  properly  pragmatic  American  aesthetic,  that  came  to  fear  imagina- 
tive entropy  as  the  worst  fee  of  the  adverting  or  questing  mind,  seeking  to  make  of  its  own  utility  a  vision 
of  universal  good. 

What  can  be  used  can  be  used  up;  this  is  what  Geoffrey  Hartman  calls  "the  anxiety  of  demand,  "  a  ver- 
sion of  which  is  enacted  in  a  fundamental  Romantic  genre,  the  crisis-lyric.    Does  the  achieved  poem  give 
confidence  that  the  next  poem  can  be  written?    An  Idealizing  critic,  even  one  of  great  accomplishment,  evi- 
dently can  believe  that  poets  are  concerned,  as  poets,  only  with  the  anxiety  of  form,  and  not  at  all  with 
anxieties  of  influence  and  of  demand,  but  all  form,  however  personalized,  stems  from  influx,  and  all  form, 
however  depersonalized,  shapes  itself  against  depletion,  and  so  seeks  to  meet  demand.    Beneath  the  anxiety 
of  demand  is  a  ghost  of  all  precursor-obsessions:    the  concern  that  inspiration  may  fail,  whereas  the  strong 
illusion  persists  that  inspiration  could  not  fail  the  precursor,  for  did  he  not  inspire  the  still -struggling  poet? 

* 

Emerson's  inspiration  never  failed,  in  part  because  it  never  wholly  came  to  him,  or  if  it  did  then  it 
came  mixed  with  considerable  prudence,  and  generally  arrived  in  the  eloquence  of  prose.    If  the  anxiety -of- 
influence  descends  as  a  myth  of  the  father,  then  we  can  venture  that  the  anxiety -of -demand  is  likely  to  mani- 
fest itself  through  imagistic  concealments  of  the  mother  or  Muse.    In  Stevens,  particularly  in  the  late  phase 
of  The  Auroras  of  Autumn  and  The  Rock,  the  concealment  is  withdrawn: 

Farewell  to  an  idea. . . .    The  mother'  s  face, 
The  purpose  of  the  poem,  fills  the  room .... 

But  Stevens,  for  all  his  late  bleakness,  was  preternaturally    fecund,  and  did  not  suffer  greatly  from 
the  anxiety -of -demand,  nor  did  Emerson.    Whitman  did,  and  that  sorrow  still  requires  exploration  by  his 
readers.    The  anxiety  induced  by  a  vision  of  the  imaginative  father  is  strongly  Stevens'  ,  as  here  in  the 
Auroras : 

The  father  sits 
In  space,  wherever  he  sits,  of  bleak  regard, 

As  one  that  is  strong  in  the  bushes  of  his  eyes. 
He  says  no  to  no  and  yes  to  yes .    He  says  yes 
To  no;  and  in  saying  yes  he  says  farewell. 

This  Jehovah-like  affirmer,  whose  eyes  have  replaced  the  burning  bush,  is  a  composite  figure,  with 
Emerson  and  Whitman  important  components ,  since  of  all  Stevens '  precursors  they  most  extravagantly 
said  yes.    The  farewell  is  equivocal.    Stevens,  more  forcefully  than  Pound,  exemplifies  making  it  new 
through  the  freshness  of  transformation,  and  more  comprehensively  than  Williams  persuades  us  that  the 
difficulties  of  cultural  heritage  cannot  be  overcome  through  evasions  .    Emerson,  ancestor  to  all  three, 
would  have  found  in  Stevens  what  he  once  had  found  in  Whitman,  a  rightful  heir  of  the  American  quest  for 
a  Self-Reliance  founded  upon  a  complete  self-knowledge . 

Contemporary  American  poetry,  written  in  the  large  shadowings  of  Pound,  Williams,  Stevens,  and 
their  immediate  progeny,  is  an  impossibly  heroic  quest  wholly  in  the  Emersonian  tradition,  another  varia- 
tion on  the  native  strain.    The  best  of  our  contemporary  poets--!  would  nominate  the  varied  half-dozen  of 


63 

Amnions,  Ashbery,  Merrill,  Merwin,  Strand  and  James  Wright  as  certainly  among  them,  but  there  are  a 
dozen  more  of  genuine  achievement- -show  an  astonishing  energy  of  response  to  the  sorrow  of  influence  that 
forms  so  much  of  the  hidden  subject  of  their  work.    As  heirs,  sometimes  unknowing,  of  Emerson,  they  re- 
ceive also  his  heartening  faith  that:    "Eloquence  is  the  appropriate  organ  of  the  highest  personal  energy,  " 
and  so  they  can  participate  also  in  the  noblest  of  Emersonian  conscious  indulgences  in  the  Optative  Mood, 
the  belief  that  influence,  for  a  potentially  strong  poet,  is  only  energy  that  comes  from  a  precursor  "of  the 
same  turn  of  mind  as  his  own,  and  who  sees  much  farther  on  his  own  way  than  he." 

Yale  University 


64 

EMERSON'S  PROSE  Morse  Peckham     S 


Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  was  the  first  to  appear  of  that  amazing  g 
sequence  of  literary  intellects  which  emerged  from  the  provincial 
darkness  of  the  young  American  republic.  Emerson  (born  in  1803),  £ 
Hawthorne,  Poe,  Thoreau,  Melville,  Whitman  —  sooner  or  later  ^ 
they  have  all  been  accepted  into  that  grand  European  culture  * 
which  transcends  and  rises  above  the  narrow  considerations  of  OT 
nationalism;  and  it  is  from  a  supra-national  European  orientation  ^} 
that  they  are  all  best  understood  and  best  measured.  In  recent  *jj 
decades  Emerson  has  not  been  so  admired,  at  least  in  America,  as  £ 
he  once  was.  Possibly  his  day  is  coming  again.  Certainly  for  some  ;E 
readers  he  has  always  been  the  greatest  of  that  group,  just  as  he  & 
was  the  inspiration  and  vital  spark  for  almost  all  of  them,  even  n 
when  they  rebelled  against  him.  ^ 

u 
Of  Emerson's  various  literary  achievements,  most  of  which  began  a 
as  lectures  assembled  from  entries  in  the  immense  flowing  Missis- 
sippi of  his  Journals,  his  greatest  are  the  two  series  of  Essays, 
published  in  1844  and  1849.  Within  a  decade  of  their  publication 
in  England  they  had  become  volumes  which  there  every  cultivated 
intellectual  and  literary  figure  found  it  necessary  to  know  well. 
Matthew  Arnold,  a  young  man  then,  later  said  that  Emerson, 
along  with  Goethe  and  J.  H.  Newman,  was  of  central  and  utmost 
importance  in  his  own  development  as  a  man  and  as  a  writer,  and 
Arnold  was  above  all  other  English  writers  the  one  who  castigated 
the  English  for  their  failure  to  know  and  be  interested  in  the 
literature  and  learning  beyond  the  limits  of  their  little  island, 
particularly  that  of  Continental  Europe.  His  notion  that  a  man 
should  be  a  good  European  was  taken  up  by  Henry  James  and 
became  the  formative  idea  of  the  latter's  life  and  literary  career. 
To  Arnold,  the  good  European,  Emerson  belonged  in  the  company 
of  Goethe,  the  man  who,  more  than  any  other  great  figure  of 
the  late  eighteenth  and  early  nineteenth  century,  insisted  on  the 
fundamental  unity  and  internal  coherence  of  European  culture. 
Goethe  was  of  the  deepest  importance  to  Emerson,  and  when  the 
thirty-year-old  American  went  to  Scotland  in  1833,  he  sought  out 
Thomas  Carlyle,  who  for  nearly  a  decade  had  been  struggling  to 
bring  the  richness  of  Goethe  and  other  German  writers  to  the 
provincial  English.  Emerson's  task,  his  mission,  his  goal,  was  to 
join  America  to  supra-national  Europe  in  a  seamless  continuum; 


Copyright  ©1969  by  Charles  E.  Merrill  Publish- 
ing Company,  Columbus,  Ohio.  All  rights  reserved. 


65 

it  was  a  manifestation  of  his  subtlety  that  one  of  his  strategies  was 
to  endeavour  to  make  his  fellow  Americans  into  good  Europeans 
by  making  them  exquisitely  aware  of  what  it  meant  to  be  an 
American,  a  matter  on  which  there  is  still  considerable  confusion. 
So  Emerson  flows  from  Europe  and  back  to  it  again,  and  to 
think  of  him  in  exclusively  American  terms  and  categories  is  to 
miss  much  of  his  meaning  and  most  of  his  greatness.  Perhaps  that 
is  why  to  the  young  American  of  today,  at  a  time  when  the  weakest 
and  least  civilized  of  European  cultural  strata  —  those  social  and 
cultural  strata  which  the  most  civilized  Europeans  have  shamefully 
neglected  —  are  themselves  becoming  so  Americanized,  Emerson's 
Essays  may  not  be  very  appealing.  If  such  a  young  American 
finds  them  pale,  disjointed,  wandering,  faded,  too  optimistic,  ex- 
cessively bland,  he  will  after  all  be  but  repeating  the  judgment  of 
many  of  the  critics  and  teachers  but  a  generation  or  two  older 
than  himself.  Yet  for  some  men  in  their  fifties  and  sixties,  as  they 
see  death  coming  nearer,  as  —  to  borrow  from  Yeats  what  he  has 

said  better  than  anyone  —  they  cast  a  colder  eye  on  life,  on  death, 
as  they  increasingly  take  a  half-concealed  pleasure  in  watching 
the  aggressive  horseman  of  energy  and  achievement  pass  by,  as 
they  are  increasingly  torn  between  a  certain  contempt  for  men 
and  an  almost  unendurable  compassion  for  suffering  and  self- 
torturing  mankind,  the  Essays  of  Emerson  become  always  more 
satisfying  and  bracing.  The  affinities  of  Emerson,  the  bland  opti- 
mist, with  Schopenhauer,  the  most  invigorating  of  pessimists, 
begin  to  become  apparent.  His  affinities  with  Stfren  Kierkegaard, 
the  Danish  master  of  irony,  become  intriguing  and  engaging;  ten 
years  Emerson's  junior,  Kierkegaard  wrote  most  of  his  works  in 
the  decade  of  the  publishing  of  the  older  writer's  Essays.  The 
blandness,  the  optimism,  fade  away,  and  a  vigor  and  intellectual 
toughness  emerge  which  strike  into  the  soul  that  iron  in  which 
the  aging  man  delights.  More  than  anything  else,  he  has  learned 
how  to  read  Emerson.  It  is  not  easy. 

Everyone  knows  that  Emerson's  style  is  aphoristic;  everyone 
knows  that  the  Essays  were  assembled  from  here  and  there  in  the 
Journals;  everyone  knows  that  they  are  disjointed,  and  that  there 
is  no  particular  reason  why  any  sentence  could  not  be  omitted. 
It  is  easy  enough  to  test  this.  Leaf  through  the  volume  of  the 
essays,  randomly  selecting  a  dozen  pages,  and  letting  your  eye 
strike  any  sentence  by  uncontrolled  accident.  You  will  find  that 
almost  any  sentence  you  light  on  can  be  extracted  from  its  context 
and  savored  or  dismissed  without  reference  to  what  precedes  or 
follows  it.  In  Emerson,  it  seems,  there  is  no  argument,  no  sustained 
discourse,  philosophical  or  other  kind,  only  a  series  of  sentences 
stitched  together  under  various  grandiose  titles  of  such  a  kind 


66 

that  almost  any  sentence  could  appear  in  almost  any  essay. 

But  that  is  not  the  only  apparently  damaging  allegation  that 
can  be  made  against  Emerson's  style.  As  we  read  any  Essay  con- 
tinuously, the  connection  between  almost  any  of  these  aphoristic 
sentences  and  the  one  that  follows  it  is  by  no  means  easy  to 
grasp.  Often  the  next  sentence  does  not  seem  to  follow  at  all. 
One  of  the  gravest  and  most  difficult  philosophical  problems  is 
this:  Given  sentences  a  and  b,  how  do  you  know  that  sentence 
6  properly  follows  from  sentence  a  except  by  sheer  contiguity? 
Between  any  two  sentences  in  any  discourse  lies,  it  would  seem, 
an  abyss,  and  the  task  of  the  man  we  call  the  good  writer  is  to 
bridge  the  abyss,  to  give  the  reader  at  least  the  illusion,  if  nothing 
else,  that  sentence  b  really  and  truly  follows  from  sentence  a. 
This  is  what  we  expect  when  we  start  to  read  an  essay,  even  the 

essays  of  that  most  capricious  of  informal  essayists,  Charles  Lamb. 
After  all,  even  Lamb  does  more  to  get  his  reader  across  the  bridge 
from  a  to  6  than  does  Emerson,  at  least  much  of  the  time.  It  is  a 
most  interesting  and  instructive  exercise  to  take  any  piece  of 
not  remarkably  good  but  of  merely  acceptable  prose  and  explore 
the  devices  used  to  get  the  reader  from  a  to  b:  the  hints,  the 
clues,  the  parallelisms,  the  contrasts,  the  quasi-logical  connectives, 
the  pronouns  with  their  antecedents  in  the  previous  sentence,  the 
conjunctions,  the  qualifying  adverbs.  The  devices  of  style  which 
go  into  constructing  the  bridges  across  the  abysses  that  lie  between 
sentences  are  innumerable,  and  every  competent  writer  must 
master  them.  Emerson  neglects  them.  He  does  not  build  us 
bridges;  he  makes  us  leap.  And  the  matter  is  made  worse  by  his 
fusion  of  a  capriciousness  greater  than  Lamb's  with  the  philo- 
sophical earnestness  and  moral  seriousness  of  Plato,  Montaigne, 
Spinoza,  Kant,  Goethe,  Carlyle.  With  the  air  of  one  bent  on 
absolute  lucidity,  he  devotes  himself  to  eluding  us. 

It  is  not  in  traditional  discourse  and  expository  prose  or  even 
inspiriting  rhetoric  that  we  must  look  for  a  model  for  what  Emer- 
son is  doing.  It  is  not  in  prose  at  all,  but  in  poetry.  That  model 
is  to  be  found  in  two  kinds  of  poetry,  the  lyric  poem  and  the  poetic 
drama.  When  we  start  to  read  a  lyric  we  do  not  expect  a  contin- 
uous discourse  with  bridges  carefully  built  from  one  sentence  to 
the  next.  Rather,  we  expect  the  speaker  of  the  poem  to  fling 
himself  from  one  proposition  to  the  next,  at  times  to  leap  from 
one  proposition  to  the  next  like  a  predator  flinging  itself  on  its 
victim;  what  we  expect  is  the  tingling  exictement  of  subjectivity, 
and  when  we  respond  adequately  to  the  lyric  poem  we  glow  with 
that  same  excitement.  As  Plato  long  ago  said,  poets  cannot  under- 
stand what  they  are  talking  about.  He  was  quite  right,  but  he 
should  have  added  that  neither  can  anybody  else.  Since  he  was 


67 
a  philosopher,  he  was  scarcely  performing  a  professional  role  that 
would  permit  him  to  admit  that  truth.  Lyric  poets  do  not  conceal 
the  abysses  that  divide  sentences;  they  exploit  them.  Emerson  is 
a  philosopher  who  writes  like  a  lyric  poet,  and  thinks  like  one. 
His  individual  sentences  are  dazzling.  How  does  he  get  from  one 
to  another?  He  does  not  tell  us,  because  he  does  not  know.  It  is  his 
pride  that  he  does  not  know.  He  refuses  to  submit  to  the  universal 
human  illusion  that  we  really  know  what  we  are  doing  while  we 
are  doing  it.  One  who  does  not  grasp  the  immense  and  magnifi- 
cently self-centered  pride  of  Emerson,  the  pride  of  a  Lucifer  who 
has  fallen  but  knows  that  only  in  his  kind  of  fall  is  there  redemp- 
tion, has  not  grasped  an  essential  quality  of  the  man  and  his 
writing. 

The  second  model  for  Emerson's  Essays  is  to  be  found  in  the 
speeches  of  the  protagonists  and  other  central  characters  of  poetic 
drama,  especially  tragedy,  and  above  all  the  tragedy  of  Shake- 
speare and  his  contemporaries.  Hamlet  is  the  greatest  of  tragedies 
because  its  central  theme  is  what  underlies  the  behavior  of  the 
heroes  of  all  tragedy,  and  of  all  interesting  non-comic  characters 
whatever.  It  is  the  endless  struggle  of  the  hero  to  redefine  himself. 
Each  of  us  has  a  self-image  and  we  have  a  similar  image  of  each 
individual  we  know,  for  the  images  of  both  self  and  other  are 
arrived  at  in  the  same  way,  by  observing  and  making  sense  out 
of  what  we  do  and  say.  We  can  stabilize  our  world  —  ourselves, 
those  we  know,  and  the  situations  we  live  in  —  by  making  those 
images  simple,  coherent,  and  fixed.  But  we  do  this  at  the  price 
of  ignoring  and  repressing  those  bits  and  pieces  of  our  behavior 
and  the  behavior  of  others  which  do  not  fit  coherently  and  con- 
sistently into  those  images.  In  every  tragic  or  serious  work,  the 
author  puts  his  protagonist  through  a  series  of  situations  which 
shatters  his  self-image,  and  the  images  of  those  intimate  with 
him,  and  of  his  world,  which  forces  him  to  be  aware  of  unexpected 
or  hitherto  unobserved  and  unassimilated  aspects  of  his  person- 
ality and  of  his  social  and  natural  environment.  His  image  is 
shattered,  and  he  must  remake  it,  only  to  have  it  shattered  again. 
Only  when  he  has  assimilated  the  unassimilated  is  he  permitted 
to  die,  and  he  dies  because  to  do  that  is  in  fact  to  do  the  impos- 
sible. The  falsity  of  tragedy  and  the  spurious  comfort  we  gain 
from  it  rises  from  seeing  the  hero  arrive  at  a  self-understanding 
which  no  man  in  the  real  world,  not  in  the  illusory  world  of  art, 
can  ever  have.  Shakespeare,  greatly  daring,  kills  Hamlet  without 
permitting  him  that  spurious  self-illumination.  Hamlet,  dying,  tells 
Horatio  to  explain  him,  because  the  truth  is  that  he  cannot  explain 
himself,  nor  can  any  man. 

That  is  why  Hamlet  utters  his  great  soliloquies;  why  these, 


68 

not  the  conclusion,  are  the  heart  of  the  play.  Shakespeare  denies 
Hamlet  self-illumination.  Ever  since,  critics  have  been  arguing 
about  what  ought  to  be  a  consistent  image  of  Hamlet,  and  they 
have  never  agreed,  and  they  never  will  agree,  because  Hamlet  is 
inexplicable.  Hamlet  is  Man,  as  no  writer  before  or  since  has  dared 
or  had  the  genius  to  present  him.  Thus,  to  Emerson,  Shakespeare 
was  a  great  philosopher,  and  the  model  for  Emerson's  Essays  are 
the  soliloquies  of  Hamlet,  of  Shakespeare's  other  tragic  heroes, 

and  of  those  of  Shakespeare's  theatrical  contemporaries.  Hamlet's 
soliloquies  emerge  from  dramatic  situations  in  which  self-image 
is  shattered.  Emerson's  Essays  emerge  from  a  grander  situation  — 
the  condition  of  man  —  which  truly,  apprehended,  as  it  almost 
never  is  by  anyone,  shatters  any  man's  self-image.  That  is  why  the 
first  of  the  Essays  is  "History,"  which,  Emerson  tells  us,  is  a 
spurious  projection  of  our  spurious  self-images,  and  he  shatters  it. 
That  is  why  the  next  essay  is  "Self-Reliance."  To  rely  on  oneself 
is  to  have  the  courage  to  doubt  one's  comforting  self-image.  This 
is  the  meaning  of  the  famous  statement,  "A  foolish  consistency  is 
the  hobgoblin  of  little  minds.  .  .  .  With  consistency  a  great  soul 
has  simply  nothing  to  do."  A  great  soul  may  know  that  he  must 
have  a  coherent  and  acceptable  self-image  to  act  at  all,  but  he 
knows  that  at  worst  it  is  spurious  and  at  best  it  is  only  an 
instrument. 

The  Essays,  then,  are  a  fusion  of  the  lyric  and  the  dramatic 
soliloquy.  Emerson  assembled  them  from  here  and  there  in  his 
Journals  because  he  knew  that  any  self-image  is  an  assemblage, 
not  a  coherent  structure.  Just  as  the  lyric  poet  exploits  the  leap 
from  sentence  to  sentence,  so  Emerson  exploits  the  inconsistency 
of  our  personalities  which  our  self-images  endeavor  to  conceal. 
The  tragic  role  he  plays  is  that  of  Man  acting  his  part  on  the 
stage  of  the  World,  and  he  sees  that  the  personality  of  Man  is 
an  assemblage,  the  various  bits  and  pieces  of  which  come  from 
he  knows  not  where,  and  he  does  not  conceal  the  fact.  He  glories 
in  it;  it  is  the  source  of  his  immense  and  magnificently  self- 
centered  pride. 

A  further  genre  of  poetry  can  provide  yet  another  model  for 
reading  Emerson's  Essays  —  a  kind  of  negative  model.  In  the  very 
decade  of  the  essays,  the  1840's,  a  younger  contemporary  of 
Emerson's,  the  Englishman  Robert  Browning,  created  the  dramatic 
monologue.  As  with  Emerson,  his  two  sources  were  the  lyric  poem, 
and  the  soliloquy  of  the  Elizabethan  theater,  of  Shakespeare  and 
his  contemporaries.  But  Browning  adds  a  twist  neither  in  Shake- 
speare nor  in  Emerson.  Browning's  monologues  emerge  from  situ- 
ations which,  though  they  do  not  shatter  the  self-images  of  his 
speakers,  certainly  threaten  to  shatter  them;  the  monologist  imme- 


69 
diately  throws  himself  into  the  effort  to  maintain  his  self-image. 
Consequently  the  reader  sees  through  the  self-image  as  the  mono- 
logist  does  not.  He  sees  that  the  speaker  is  making  an  assemblage 
out  of  the  rags  and  tatters  of  his  personality  in  order  to  preserve 
his  self-esteem.  He  sees  the  threat  which  could  shatter  the  self- 
image  were  it  not  for  the  defenses  of  the  speaker.  It  is  the  process 
subsequent  psychologists  have  come  to  call  rationalization,  and 
nowadays  we  know  all  about  it,  and  perhaps  can  do  it  better 
because  we  do.  It  could  be  said,  of  course,  that  Shakespeare  does 
the  same  thing  in  the  soliloquies  of  such  a  villain  as  Iago,  but 
that  would  be  an  error.  Iago  rationalizes  because  of  a  moral  defect. 
Browning's  monologists  rationalize  because  they  are  human  beings. 
Browning's  twist  is  that  we  rationalize  because  we  are  human; 
rationalization  is  what  we  pay  in  order  to  exist.  Rationalization 
is  the  price  of  the  ticket  of  admission  to  the  great  theater  of 
human  society  and  culture.  Emerson's  Essays,  then,  can  be  profit- 
ably approached  as  dramatic  monologues  by  a  man  who  is  doing 
his  best  not  to  rationalize.  To  be  sure,  we  can  say  that  he  some- 
times fails.  To  affirm  that  he  always  fails  in  an  easy  optimism  is 
to  miss  the  Essays  almost  completely,  just  as  it  is  a  total  failure 
of  comprehension  to  call  Browning  an  easy  optimist.  We  lie  to 
ourselves  in  order  to  exist,  to  act,  and  since  writing  is  a  form  of 
action,  sometimes  even  Emerson  lied  to  himself.  But  he  knew, 
as  Browning  knew,  that  what  we  call  honesty  with  ourselves  is 
also  a  lie,  because  such  honesty  makes  ourselves  explicable,  and 
we  are  inexplicable.  Thus  self-honesty  is  to  ascribe  to  ourselves 
a  moral  defect  which  conceals  from  ourselves  a  condition  of  exist- 
ence. And  it  must  be  added  that  in  the  1850's  Emerson  became 
grimmer  and  developed  something  of  the  terrible  insight  of 
Browning. 

Nevertheless,  Emerson  would  not  have  been  human  had  he  not 
tried  to  justify  his  position  and  provide  a  rationale  for  his  style. 
It  cannot  be  denied  that  he  succumbed  to  the  philosophical  temp- 
tation to  explain  the  inexplicable.  But  then,  not  to  have  succumbed 
would  have  been  consistent,  and  so  inconsistent  with  his  incon- 
sistency. His  tragic  role  is  that  of  Man,  and  Man's  struggle  to 
achieve  a  consistent  vision  of  his  condition  is  a  part  of  that  role 
and  cannot  be  avoided.  Yet  such  a  consistent  vision,  once  achieved, 
can  be  denied  and  transcended;  that  is  what  the  essay  "Circles" 
is  about.  To  think  at  all  we  must  have  a  ground  to  our  thinking, 
or,  as  those  German  philosophers  of  the  time,  whom  Emerson 
knew  directly  and  indirectly,  liked  to  put  it,  there  must  be  a 
ground  to  existence,  if  we  are  to  exist.  Yet  there  is  no  reason 
why  we  should  not  change  that  ground  as  often  as  we  like  —  or 
can.  That  is  why  one  cannot  create  a  consistent  philosophical 


70 
position  from  Emerson's  writings  except  by  omitting  a  great  deal. 
In  the  fashion  of  his  time  he  often  used  the  terms  subject  and 

object,  that  is,  the  observing  mind  and  what  it  observes.  Ever 
since  Kant  it  had  been  realized  that  the  subject,  or  observing 
mind,  observes  what  it  wishes  to  observe,  or,  to  put  it  more  deli- 
cately, what  it  is  its  interest  to  observe;  and  we  know  this  is  so 
because  the  object,  that  which  is  observed,  is  always  tripping  up 
the  observing  mind.  The  instruments,  or  categories,  of  the  observing 
mind,  the  subject,  are  never  congruent  with  the  world,  the  ding- 
an-sich,  as  Kant  called  it.  We  see  not  the  real  world,  which  is 
inaccessible  to  us,  but  the  phenomenal  world,  the  world  as  re- 
arranged to  our  satisfaction,  or  dissatisfaction,  as  the  case  may  be. 
Thus  we  have  two  images,  that  of  the  subject  and  that  of  the 
object,  and  they  never  match;  or,  to  put  it  another  way  —  and 
Emerson  liked  to  put  it  both  ways  —  the  subject  projects  onto 
the  world  an  image  which  falsifies  the  world.  What  the  world 
really  is  we  cannot  know.  In  temporal  terms,  we  are  always  just 
missing  the  bus,  but  then  we  are  always  just  about  to  catch  it. 
In  more  abstract  terms,  Emerson,  like  all  the  advanced  thinkers 
of  his  time  and  ours  —  though  today  we  would  put  it  differently  — 
was  convinced  that  between  subject  and  object  there  is  an  irresolv- 
able tension.  We  do  not  perceive  the  world,  we  create  it;  or,  in 
perceiving  the  world  we  create  it.  And  this  act  of  perceptual 
creation  is  man's  deepest  interest  and  satisfaction.  Here  is  the 
most  important  reason  for  Emerson's  style.  Like  so  many  of  his 
contemporaries,  to  him  the  perception  of  a  work  of  art  or  philoso- 
phy was  as  creative  an  act  as  creating  it.  Kierkegaard  called 
writing  which  forces  the  reader  to  create,  teaching  by  the  indirect 
method.  At  any  rate,  from  this  irresolvable  tension  between  sub- 
ject and  object  emerges  an  odd  paradox.  Everybody  interprets  the 
world  a  little  bit  differently  from  everybody  else,  yet  we  all  find 
our  way  around  in  it  reasonably  well;  and  these  two  facts  can 
never  be  put  together,  or  at  least  Emerson  could  not,  except  in 
a  very  special  way.  It  is  a  way  not  completely  acceptable  to  us 
today,  but  from  it  something  of  great  significance  can  be  rescued 
which  reveals  Emerson's  modernity  and  relevance  to  our  times. 

In  the  essay  "The  Over-Soul"  Emerson  works  out  his  position. 
To  grasp  it  one  must  first  seize  vividly  the  way  we  ordinarily 
think  about  the  relation  of  the  mind  to  the  world.  To  use  non- 
Emersonian  terms,  our  usual  assumption  is  something  like  this: 
a  stimulus  or  set  of  stimuli  is  fed  into  the  brain  by  the  nervous 
system.  The  brain  processes  these  stimuli  in  various  ways,  usually 
called  rational  (i.e.,  logical),  irrational,  and  emotional,  and  the 
result  of  that  processing,  which  we  call  mental  activity,  is  the 


71 

generation  of  some  activity,  including  verbal  activity.  We  identify 
ourselves  with  mental  activity,  and  feel  convinced  that  we  are  in 
control  of  it.  "My  mind,"  we  say,  "is  my  own."  Now  Emerson 
cannot  accept  this  picture  of  what  happens.  Rather,  he  recom- 
mends that  we  stand  aside  from  our  own  activity,  watch  ourselves 
generating  activity,  and  sunder  our  usual  identification  of  our- 
selves, that  is,  our  awareness,  with  mental  activity.  If  we  do  that, 
it  then  becomes  apparent  that  the  usual  picture  is  quite  false. 
Rather,  a  stimulus  or  set  of  stimuli  is  fed  into  the  brain  by  the 
nervous  system.  The  brain  processes  these  stimuli  in  ways  we 
canot  possibly  comprehend,  and  the  result  of  that  processing  is 
our  behavior,  which  is,  therefore,  inexplicable.  Between  stimulus 
and  response  lies  a  mystery,  an  abyss,  the  same  abyss  that  lies 
between  two  sentences.  Thus,  if  "mind"  means  awareness,  or 
consciousness,  then  what  happens  between  stimulus  and  response 
is  not  mind,  is  not  mental  activity.  Or,  if  "mind"  means  what 
happens  between  stimulus  and  response,  then  awareness,  or  con- 
sciousness, is  not  mind.  What  happens  in  that  abyss,  Emerson 
thinks,  is  not  only  inexplicable;  it  is  the  source  of  everything  that 
lends  life  its  value.  There,  he  thinks,  subject  and  object  are  one; 
in  that  abyss,  he  believes,  the  divine  enters  the  human. 

It  is  interesting  that  in  these  very  years  in  which  Emerson  was 
publishing  the  Essays,  in  Denmark,  S0ren  Kierkegaard  was  work- 
ing out  a  remarkably  similar  scheme.  In  human  life  he  discerned 
three  possible  stages,  or  three  levels  of  orientation  towards  the 
world.  The  first  he  called  the  aesthetic,  the  orientation  which 
satisfies  one  with  the  sensuous  and  the  imaginative.  Should  a 
man,  however,  discern  that  the  values  of  such  a  life  are  incoherent 
and  contradictory,  he  develops  the  ironic  vision.  As  a  result  he 
comes  to  realize  that  he  must  choose  among  these  values  if  he  is 
to  have  a  life  more  meaningful  than  the  pure  entertainment  of 
the  aesthetic  orientation.  Thus  he  arrives  at  the  ethical  stage,  or 
orientation,  in  which  he  believes  that  he  has  his  life  in  control, 
that  he  determines  his  life.  Should  he  come  to  realize,  however, 
that  his  life  is  not  his  own,  that  his  behavior  is  actually  inexplic- 
able, he  will,  if  fortunate,  be  amused  that  men  should  entertain 
the  illusion  that  they  know  what  they  are  doing,  and  that  the 
sense  that  they  make  out  of  themselves  and  their  experiences  is 
anything  more  than,  at  the  best,  comforting.  Thus  humor  pre- 
cipitates him  into  a  third  stage,  or  orientation  —  the  religious  — 
in  which  he  realizes  that  each  of  his  acts  is  a  leap  from  a  previous 
act,  a  leap  which  he  can  onlv  perform  but  cannot  understand. 

What  sustains  him  in  that  leap  is  God,  of  whom,  however,  he  can 
never  hope  to  comprehend  anything.  Thus  his  position  is  remark- 
ably like  Emerson's. 


72 

It  is  worth  noting  that  anyone  who  does  not  wish  to  employ 
the  notion  "God"  in  his  thinking,  can  nevertheless  find  both 
Emerson's  and  Kierkegaard's  schemes  quite  useful.  It  can  be  said 
that  both,  still  dominated  by  something  of  traditional  thinking, 
stripped  the  term  "God"  of  all  useful  meaning  and  used  it  in 
order  to  have  something  to  put  into  the  gap  between  stimulus 
and  response,  the  abyss  over  which  man  leaps  from  act  to  act. 
In  the  post-Freudian  period  Western  culture  is  more  inclined  to 
use  "unconscious"  or  "subconscious",  but  like  "God"  in  the  Emer- 
sonian and  Kierkegaardian  structures,  these  words  simply  mean 
that  whatever  is  going  on  in  that  abyss  —  and  we  cannot  know 
what  it  is  —  is  very  important,  so  important  as  to  be  the  source 
of  all  value. 

Although  Emerson  did  not  think  in  Kierkegaardian  terms,  the 
Dane's  categories  are  helpful  in  understanding  Emerson.  Particu- 
larly they  help  us  to  understand  what  in  Emerson  has  so  often 
been  condemned,  especially  by  the  terribly  earnest,  the  irredeem- 
ably ethical,  those  moral  bullies  who  are  always  trying  to  force 
themselves  and  everyone  else  to  the  irresistible  choice,  or  what 
they  fancy  to  be  the  irresistible  choice,  those  who  are  so  foolish 
as  really  to  believe  in  reason  and  logic  and  man's  self-possession 
as  absolutes,  not  as  dull  and  fragile  instrument.  What  annoys 
such  people  is  Emerson's  radiant  light-heartedness,  which  they 
think  of  as  shallow  optimism.  It  is  nothing  of  the  sort;  it  has 
gone  beyond  optimism.  That  is  why  Nietzsche  so  admired  Emer- 
son. If  one  reads  Emerson's  Journals,  one  comes  to  realize  that 
Emerson  achieved  that  light-heartedness  only  by  paying  a  price 
of  terrible  strain  and  even  suffering,  a  suffering  which  never  left 
him.  Emerson,  like  Kierkegaard,  arrives  at  the  religious  stage 
through  humor,  and  it  is  why  among  their  many  other  virtues, 
the  Essays  are  so  amusing.  The  essay  "Compensation  "  is  an 
instance.  Here  he  is  not  humorous  but  ironic.  The  universe,  he 
tells  us,  is  a  system  of  justice;  for  every  action  there  is  a  corre- 
sponding reaction;  for  every  crime  there  is  a  punishment.  At  first 
glance  it  seems  like  a  position  that  affirms  that  the  universe  is  a 
harmonious  and  coherent  unity.  However,  if  for  every  action  there 
is  a  corresponding  reaction,  then  everything  cancels  out  every- 
thing else.  His  point  can  be  seen  if  we  realize  that  when  we  talk 
about  the   importance  of  justice,   we  mean   the  importance  of 

justice  for  other  people,  not  ourselves.  For  ourselves  we  do  not 
want  justice,  but  favors,  special  consideration.  We  want  the  judges 
of  our  actions  to  render  their  judgments  on  our  sins  and  errors 
with  a  full  knowledge  of  the  extenuating  circumstances.  But  no, 
Emerson  tells  us,  there  are  no  extenuating  circumstances;  there 
are  only  our  acts.  Nevertheless  he  consoles  us.  In  human  life  the 


73 

compensation  is  that  we  transcend  what  we  were,  that  we  break 
through  to  a  new  vision  of  experience,  we  break  down  those  de- 
fenses which  preserve  a  spurious  self-image  and  create  a  new  one 
which  is,  hopefully,  at  least  less  spurious. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  Emerson,  like  Kierkegaard,  was  not  an 
optimist  but  a  redemptionist.  The  optimist  thinks  that  the  prog- 
ress of  the  race  is  automatic.  The  redemptionist  thinks  that  if 
man  will  truly  understand  his  situation,  he  can  redeem  himself 
and  the  world,  and  permeate  both  with  a  radiant  and  permanent 
value.  When  Emerson  was  publishing  the  Essays,  the  young  Karl 
Marx  was  struggling  towards  his  vision  of  human  redemption,  of 
a  society  in  which  subject  and  object  —  for  he  thought  in  the 
same  terms  as  Emerson  and  Kierkegaard  —  will  be  reconciled. 
But  there  is  a  difference  between  the  German  on  the  one  hand 
and  the  American  and  the  Dane  on  the  other.  Marx  thought 
redemption  could  be  achieved  by  the  mass  of  mankind  freeing 
itself  from  its  oppressors,  who  had  alienated  from  the  individual 
the  fruits  of  his  labor.  Emerson  thought  that  the  peculiar  historical 
circumstances  of  his  country  might  conceivably  facilitate  the 
achievement  of  individual  redemption,  which,  like  Browning,  he 
thought  could  be  but  momentary  and  must  constantly  be  achieved 
anew.  Kierkegaard  came  to  the  conclusion  that  redemption  could 
be  achieved  only  by  the  individual,  working  in  profound  isolation, 
utterly  separated  from  his  fellow-man.  Emerson,  in  the  1850's, 
moved  in  this  direction,  not  Marx's. 

The  theme  of  alienation  is  common  to  all  three.  To  Marx, 
economic  oppression  has  alienated  man  from  his  happiness,  the 
rewards  of  his  work,  those  rewards  being  his  natural  right.  To 
Marx  the  immediate  task  was  to  overthrow  economic  oppression 
and  its  political  instruments  so  that  man  might  enter  at  once  upon 
his  happiness.  To  Emerson,  redemption  was  a  spiritual  achieve- 
ment, and,  like  Kierkegaard,  he  came  to  see  that  it  lay  not  in 
overcoming  alienation  but  in  plunging  into  alienation,  with  no 
assurance  of  what,  if  anything  might  lie  beyond  it.  Thus  what 
is  often  called  the  optimism  of  Emerson  is  closer  to  a  sunny  and 
cheerful  indifference.  Marx  would  resolve  the  inconsistencies  of 

society  and  culture  into  a  coherent  value-laden  society  and  cul- 
ture; Emerson  denied  that  society  and  culture  could  be  coherent 
and  value-laden.  Value  could  be  achieved  by  the  individual  only 
if  he  accepted  his  incoherence  and  his  absurdity.  For  Marx  the 
goal  is  to  create  a  society  in  which  all  men  are  equally  heroic 
in  their  common  mastery  of  nature.  For  Emerson  only  the  indi- 
vidual can  be  heroic,  and  only  as  an  individual;  and  nature  is 
not  to  be  mastered  but  loved.  To  put  it  with  excessive  baldness, 
Marx  thought  that  redemption  could  be  realized  only  by  bringing 


74 
people  together  into  a  common  cause  and  a  social  unity.  Kierke- 
gaard and  Emerson  and  Browning  thought  that  the  only  way  was 
to  keep  people  apart,  and  that  one  must  begin  by  keeping  oneself 
apart.  Marx  is  the  energetic  horseman;  but  ultimately  Emerson 
casts  a  cold  eye. 

These  two  ways,  the  Marxian  and  the  Emersonian,  are  still  the 
only  ways  of  dealing  with  that  alienation  from  society  and  culture 
which  has  been  the  experience  of  every  modern  and  highly  culti- 
vated spirit  of  that  last  century  and  of  this,  our  own.  Which  way 
is  to  be  preferred?  It  was  the  problem  of  the  1840's,  and  it  is  the 
problem  of  today.  Certainly  Emerson,  in  his  Essays,  has  illumi- 
nated that  problem  as  have  few  writers  then  or  since,  and  with 
a  brilliance  that  one  can  never,  finally,  tire  of. 


AMERICAN 
TRANSCENDENTAL 

QUARTERLY 


„*,* 


#21 


Winter 
1974 


Part   One 


CONTENTS 


GYMNASTS  OF  FAITH,  FATE,  AND 
HAZARD    Martha  Banta 


THE  LAW  OF  PERMUTATION — EMERSON'S 
MODE    Leonard  N .  Neufeldt 


20 


WORKS,  DAYS,  POETRY,  AND  IMAGI- 
NATION   Hyatt  H.  Waggoner 30 

THE  EVOLUTION  OF  EMERSON'S  SEC- 
OND "NATURE"   Richard  Lee  Francis.  33 

EMERSON'S  DISCOVERY  OF  THE  ENG- 
LISH ROMANTICS,  1818-1836 
Sheldon  W.  Liebman ' 36 

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  WALL:  CON- 
SCIOUSNESS IN  EMERSON'S  EARLY 
AND  LATE  JOURNALS 
Evelyn  Barish  Greenberger 45 

THE  FRESHNESS  OF  TRANSFORMATION 
OR  EMERSON  ON  INFLUENCE 
Harold  Bloom 57 

EMERSON  «S  PROSE   Morse  Peckham 64 


m 


The  papers  listed  above  con- 
stitute a  symposium  on 
Emerson  gathered  and  edited 
by  Prof.  Leonard  N.  Newfeldt, 
Department  of  English,  Univer- 
sity of  Texas  of  the  Permian 
Basin,  Odessa,  Texas  97962. 
We  here  wish  to  thank  him 
for  his  kind  offices. 


*****   


*&*$&**■ 


*V* 


GYMNASTS  OF  FAITH,  FATE,  AND  HAZARD 

MARTHA   BANTA 

.  .  .like  vaulters  in  a  circus  round 

Who  leap  from  horse  to  horse  but  never  touch  the  ground. 

I 

In  1904  Henry  Adams  wrote  his  friend  Charles  Milnes  Gaskell  that  he  found  the  "world  turns  double 
back-somersaults  so  fast  that  I  am  green  with  terror.    The  skies  seem  to  Cock-locky  to  have  fallen,  as  he 
has  seen  them  fall  several  times,  at  imminent  risk  of  breaking  his  neck  as  well  as  the  necks  of  various  uni- 
verses."!   This  same  American  Cock-locky  wrote  the  same  friend  thirty-five  years  earlier  (1869)  of  a 
strange  encounter  he  had  had  while  walking  through  a  quiet  street  on  the  outskirts  of  Washington,  D.C. :   "I 
was  suddenly  conscious  of  a  rushing  noise  behind  me,  and  before  I  knew  what  was  the  matter,  I  was  struck 
violently  by  a  soft  substance  on  the  back  of  the  head,  and  flung  to  the  ground  so  quickly  that  I  did  not  even 
make  an  effort  to  save  myself. "    Then  he  looked  about  to  discern  the  cause.    "There ,  on  the  ground  half  a 
rod  in  front,  flapping  painfully,  and  gazing  at  me  with  eyes  to  the  full  as  amazed  and  bewildered  as  my  own, 
was  a  huge,  white,  tame  goose." 

A  few  years  prior  to  this  serio-comic  episode,  Samuel  Clemens  was  out  in  Nevada  gathering  the  tales 
he  would  include  in  Roughing  It  of  1871 .     Among  them  is  "The  Story  of  the  Old  Ram"  in  which  Jim  Blaine'  s 
Uncle  Len  is  felled  by  an  Irishman  plummeting  from  the  sky.    "People  said  it  was  an  accident.    Much  acci- 
dent there  was  about  that.    He  didn'  t  know  what  he  was  there  for,  but  he  was  there  for  a  good  object.    If  he 
hadn1 1  been  there  the  Irishman  would  have  been  killed. "2    Henry  Adams  did  not  have  Jim  Blaine'  s  trust  in 
Providence;  neither  he  nor  the  goose  could  find  signs  of  purposeful  fate  in  their  encounter,  only  the  vagaries 
of  random  chance . 

Earlier  by  a  year  or  so,  Henry  James,  Sr.,  wrote  a  letter  humbly  denying  that  he  was  yet  a  "cosmos.' 
James  felt  he  was  "only  a  very  dim  nebula,  doing  its  modest  best,  no  doubt,  to  solidify  into  cosmical  dimen- 
sions, but  still  requiring  an  'awful  sight'  of  time  and  pains  and  patience. .  .  ."3    He  went  on  to  say  that  it 
was  incorrect  to  think  of  the  universe  as  created  in  a  state  of  full  and  perfected  achievement  as  ducks  are 
created.    He  then  turned  his  metaphor -making  toward  the  benevolent  author  of  man'  s  destiny.    "If  the  Deity 
were  an  immense  Duck  capable  only  of  emitting  an  eternal  quack  we  of  course  should  all  have  been  born  web- 
footed,  each  as  infallible  in  his  way  as  the  Pope,  nor  ever  have  been  at  the  expense  and  bother  of  swimming- 
schools.    But  He  is  a  perfect  man,  incapable  of  the  slightest  quackery,  capable  only  of  every  honest  and 
modest  and  helpful  purpose,  and  these  are  perfections  to  which  manifestly  no  one  is  born,  but  only  re -born. 
We  come  to  such  states,  not  by  learning,  only  by  unlearning.  .  .  .    Say  what  we  will,  you  and  I  are  all  the 
while  at  school  just  now .    The  genial  pedagogue  may  give  you  so  little  of  the  ferule  as  to  leave  you  to  doubt 
whether  you  really  are  there;  but  this  only  proves  what  a  wonderful  pedagogue  it  is,  and  how  capable  of 
adapting  himself  to  everyone.  " 

James'  God  is  a  kindly  Pedagod,  not  an  irritable  Donald  Duck,  or  a  befuddled  goose;   He  will  wait  out 
our  doubts  whether  He  or  we  exist  in  His  knowledge  that,  with  purposeful,  educating  change,  the  little  cos- 
moses of  each  individual  self  will  fulfill  the  perfection  of  their  destiny.    In  contrast,  Henry  Adams'  notions 
of  man'  s  fate  are  far  less  cheerful.    He  had  many  things  to  say  on  the  subject  over  the  course  of  a  long  and 
talkative  life,  and  his  attitudes  vary  in  their  nuances,  but  the  following  remark,  taken  from  a  letter  of  1902, 
is  characteristic:    "Nobody  knows  anything.    Nobody  controls  anything.    Nobody  sees  ahead.    We  go  because 
we  must,  and  we  are  becoming  necessitarians  and  fatalists  with  most  astonishing  rapidity  ."4 

Adams'  encounter  with  the  Chanceful  goose,  Uncle  Len'  s  back-breaking  experience  with  the  Provi- 
dential Irishman,  and  Henry  James,  Sr .'  s  vision  of  the  non-Duck  god  toward  whose  perfection  we  move, 
all  occurred  in  the  I860'  s.    During  those  same  years  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  was  then  past  his  peak  of  think- 
ing, lecturing,  and  writing,  but  he  still  had  ten  more  years  left  to  make  comments  about  similar  matters  of 
chance  and  fate,  cosmos  and  consciousness.    As  so  often  in  reading  Emerson,  it  is  the  metaphors  he  uses 
to  unfold  his  ideas  that,  at  the  least,  take  precedence  over  his  ideas  and,  at  best,  become  the  thoughts  them- 
selves.   Emerson  worked  in,  through,  and  around  metaphors  of  sight  and  played  with  the  symbolism  of 


7 
circles.    We  all  know  this,  and  the  knowledge  has  been  useful  to  us.    Largely  unnoticed  is  the  frequency  with 
which  he  used  images  and  made  analogies  that  spring  out  of  the  world  of  gymnastic  action,  which  aims  to  see 
how  well  one  can  keep  one'  s  feet  in  an  ever-shifting  world  of  mind  and  nature .    By  checking  the  dots  along 
the  continuum  of  this  important  poetic  presentation  of  his  ideas  of  fate,  we  may  better  see  how  his  metaphor- 
making  changed  even  as  his  faith  in  fate  remained  essentially  unaltered . 

II 

Is  this  world  a  jungle  to  get  lost  in,  or  a  jungle -gym  whose  sturdy  frame  easily  supports  one?    Does 
one  stand  poised  on  a  solid  earthen  floor,  or  over  trap -doors  that  might  give  way  any  instant,  or  a  tightrope 
stretched  across  a  chasm?    Is  the  universe  an  endless  treadmill,  Fortune'  s  wheel,  or  a  Platonic  spiral  stair- 
case that  mounts  to  the  morning  star?    Such  questions  form  the  context  for  the  image -answers  offered  by 
those  men  in  the  nineteenth  century  who  sought  to  know  not  only  man'  s  place  in  the  cosmic  structure,  but 
also  how  stable  or  slippery  his  footing  was . 

In  1836  Emerson  addressed  himself  to  the  idea  that  circumstances,  persons,  and  the  world,  as  well 
as  one'  s  body  and  one'  s  memories,  are  constantly  perishing  as  one  exhausts  their  meaning  and  use  for  life. 
Pursuing  this  idea  further  into  an  appropriate  image,  he  wrote  in  his  journal,  "The  world  is  the  gymnasium 
on  which  the  youth  of  the  Universe  are  trained  to  strength  &  skill.    When  they  have  become  masters  of 
strength  &  skill,  who  cares  what  becomes  of  the  masts  &  bars  &  ropes  on  which  they  strained  their  muscle."' 
Emerson  here  calls  upon  his  generation  to  train  as  spiritual  athletes  in  a  world  of  actuality  that  is  itself 
dispensable  equipment.    The  world  of  common  facts  is  left  behind,  yet  more  clearly  realized,  as  the  cham- 
pions of  faith  leap  away  from  the  phenomenal  into  the  noumenal  beyond.    What  is  real  is  not  the  field  of  ac- 
tion but  the  action  itself  and  where  one'  s  gymnastic  prowess  eventuates. 

What  Emerson  was  testing  in  1836,   S0ren  Kierkegaard  was  publicly  affirming  in  1843.    The  skills  of 
the  Knight  of  Faith  were  described  with  awe.    "It  is  supposed  to  be  the  most  difficult  task  for  a  dancer  to 
leap  into  a  definite  posture  in  such  a  way  that  there  is  not  a  second  when  he  is  grasping  after  the  posture,  but 
by  the  leap  itself  he  stands  fixed  in  that  posture.    Perhaps  no  dancer  can  do  it --but  that  is  what  the  knight 
does. "6    In  1846  Kierkegaard  concluded  his  later  essay,  The  Present  Age,  with  a  note  on  "development"  and 
"progress."    Those  who  will  be  saved,  he  foretold,  must  face  "the  abyss  of  eternity"  figured  as  a  sharp 
blade--"and  behold,  it  is  God  who  waits.    Leap,  then,  into  the  arms  of  God." 

Let  us  ask  whether  a  man'  s  prose  style  can  be  seen  as  both  the  tightrope  of  words  from  whose  height 
falls  might  be  made  and  the  safety-net  that  supports  whosoever  falls,  or  whether  that  style  is  a  rope  that 
hangs  too  slackly  or  a  net  too  full  of  holes  to  save.    If  this  analogy  between  the  style  and  the  theme  works, 
then  consider  the  fact  that  Emerson  had  much  to  say  about  faith  and  fate  by  way  of  his  doctrine  of  compen- 
sation.   Is  Emerson,  therefore,  a  canny  conservative  who  manages  to  survive  in  his  prose  because  he 
avoids  attempting  too  much,  or  does  he  leap  as  far  as  Kierkegaard's  Knight,  without  even  the  safety-net  of 
the  arms  of  the  Christian  God?    If  Emerson'  s  prose  dramatizes  his  belief  in  the  value  of  equilibrium- -the 
balancing  act  between  fate  (what  lies  out  there)  and  faith  (what  lies  within),  it  is  necessary  first  to  see  what 
positions  he  took  on  faith  and  fate .    One  must  decide  whether  there  are  drastic  differences  between  the  young 
Emerson  and  the  older  man  on  the  subject;  whether  Emerson  B.C.  gives  us  the  "good  stuff"  while  Emerson 
A.D.  is  readily  dismissible.    Then  we  can  move  on  to  see  whether  his  style  attained  stasis  or  kept  up  its 
dynamic  dance.    The  argument- -presented  as  it  must  be  in  prose --will  be  sequential.    But  in  Emersonian 
actuality  the  conclusions  reached  about  Emerson'  s  style  will  not  come  after  the  conclusions  about  his  ideas; 
the  stylistic  method  and  the  ideas  have  to  stand  and  fall  together.    Like  a  first-rate  balancing  act,  the  man 
on  the  top  and  the  man  on  the  bottom  are  of  equal  importance . 

Ill 

Stated  at  its  simplest,  Emerson  posed  the  inherent  contrasts  between  man'  s  mind  (the  Me)  and  all 
that  lies  outside  (the  Not  Me).    Throughout  his  career  he  played  with  the  question  whether  or  not  the  forces 
of  destiny  are  seated  within  the  mind,  and  thus  are  guided  by  it,  or  are  lodged  without,  and  thus  able  to  dic- 
tate what  a  man'  s  life  will  become.    Emerson  set  up  a  series  of  contrasting  forces  based  on  the  primary 
subject -object  pairing:    Power  and  Aim,  Power  and  Form,  Must  and  Will,  Posse  and  Esse,  Necessity  and 
Freedom,  Nature  and  Character,  Should  and  Would--and  then  contemplated  the  possibilities  of  bringing  them 
all  into  one,  by  unifying,  reconciling,  and  carrying  out  a  merger  of  causes  and  effects. 


8 
As  early  as  1831  Emerson  began  to  work  out  his  theme  of  compensation,  that  maintains  a  trust  in  the 
ultimate  beneficence  of  existence.    Spurred  on  by  the  deaths  of  Ellen  and  his  brother  Edward,  he  wrote  in 
1834,  "We  do  what  we  can,   &  then  make  a  theory  to  prove  our  performance  the  best"  (JMN,  IV,  315).    It 
worries  some  of  Emerson'  s  readers  that  he  shaped  a  philosophy  of  living  out  of  his  innermost  needs,  but 
what  way  would  be  more  appropriate  for  an  affirmation  of  his  early  belief  that  our  wishes  form  our  will  and 
that  our  will  is  our  fate --creative  of  a  world  out  of  the  materials  of  our  brains  and  our  souls? 

Only  Ellen  had  never  disappointed,  except  in  her  death;  the  world  was  full  of  the  facts  of  other  people 
and  events  that  constantly  unsettled  Emerson'  s  delicate  spiritual  balance.    "I  never  get  used  to  men, "  he 
wrote  in  1835.    "They  always  awaken  expectations  in  me  which  they  always  disappoint,  and  I  am  a  poor  as- 
teroid in  the  great  system  subject  to  disturbances  in  my  orbit  not  only  from  all  the  planets  but  from  all 
their  moons"  (L,  I,  375).    By  1838  Emerson  had  worked  out  a  solution.    Not  only  was  he  in  control  of  the 
world  of  his  horizons,  but  in  control  by  means  of  being  that  world.    He  was  neither  a  mere  part  of  it  (thus 
liable  to  its  disturbances),  nor  above  it  (liable  to  criticism  for  trying  to  escape  life).    His  world  was  now 
he  himself  since  it  passed  through  him.    "Place  yourself  in  the  middle  of  the  stream  [,  ]  the  stream  of  Al- 
mighty Power  &  Wisdom  which  flows  into  you  as  Life,  place  yourself  in  the  full  centre  of  that  flood,  then 
you  are  without  effort  impelled  to  truth,  to  right,   &  a  perfect  contentment.    Then  you  put  all  gainsayers  in 
the  wrong,  then  you  are  the  world,  the  measure  of  right,  of  truth,  of  beauty"  (JMN,  VII,  91).    Note  that  the 
conditions  of  this  new  sense  of  mastery  involve  being  "without  effort  impelled  to  truth."    The  passage  opens 
with  Emerson'  s  question,   "Why  need  you  choose?    Certainly  there  is  a  possible  right  for  you  that  precludes 
the  necessity  of  balance  &  wilful  election. ..."    It  would  seem  that,  almost  from  the  start,  Emerson  was 
working  out  the  paradox  of  control  by  means  of  submission,  of  passive  mastery. 

Our  life  is  the  angle  of  vision  we  take .    Man  in  his  self-sufficiency  is  the  maker  of  all  good  and  all 
evil.    Mind  is  married  to  nature.    Subject  is  at  one  with  object  in  the  perfect  proportion  of  soul'  s  beauty. 
These  and  like  statements  fill  the  journals  of  the  decade  between  1832  and  1842,  as  Emerson  wrote  out  his 
need  to  escape  the  doubleness  that  kills  and  to  seize  the  bipolar  unity  that  vivifies.    Certainly  those  critics- - 
Jonathan  Bishop  among  them --are  correct  when  they  cite  those  early  years  (during  which  the  theme  of  mind'  s 
creative  will  is  strikingly  developed)  as  the  peak  of  Emerson'  s  mental  powers  .    Equally  evident,  after 
Waldo'  s  death,  is  the  gradual  waning  of  Emerson'  s  ability  to  convert  his  doubts  directly  into  a  vital  faith  in 
man'  s  power  to  direct  his  destiny. '    But  it  may  not  be  just  to  speak  of  Emerson'  s  thought  and  writing  after 
1842  as  merely  tired,  forced,  and  acquiescent  to  "tendencies."    To  view  the  Emerson  of  the  later  years  as 
nothing  more  than  a  genial  but  aging  figurehead  for  the  Self-Helpers,  the  Norman  Vincent  Peale  of  his  day,  8 
fails  to  take  account  of  the  presence  of  wit,  skill,  and  force  in  essays  put  together  as  late  as  the  I860'  s . 

Interesting  light  is  thrown  on  the  contemporary  criticism  that  names  Emerson  as  changing  from  a 
Romantic  (good)  to  a  Victorian  (bad)  because  he  finally  witnessed  to  the  power  of  the  Not -Me  of  Nature  but 
tried  to  get  around  the  free  will  question  by  saying  freedom  is  our  necessity. 9    This  definition  of  the  Roman- 
tic as  one  who  energetically  locates  power  within  the  mind,  and  of  the  Victorian  as  he  who  passively  places 
force  outside  in  the  world,  is  especially  intriguing  in  view  of  the  desire  to  praise  Modern  Man  as  one  who, 
while  admitting  his  powerlessness  in  face  of  forces  external  to  his  will,  bravely  asserts  his  need  to  act  as 
if  he  were  free.    In  what  ways  is  Emerson  more  a  self -deluding  and  impotent  Victorian?    "In  Thy  Necessity 
is  Our  Freedom"  is  no  more  or  less  appropriate  to  Emerson,  Dante,  or  T.  S.  Eliot.    Granted  that  the  older 
Emerson  got  tired  more  quickly  over  the  span  of  an  essay,  and  was  increasingly  apt  to  make  tom-fool  pro- 
nouncements about  life  in  ways  less  easy  to  ignore  than  the  younger  Emerson.    I  argue,  however,  that  Emer- 
son, early  and  late,  conceived  of  life  in  essentially  the  same  terms--as  the  art  of  balancing  out  those  skills 
man  has  every  right  to  expect  to  master  as  long  as  he  pays  heed  to  the  rules  of  the  sport . 

IV 

In  1834  Emerson  advised  himself  of  the  "philosophy  of  the  erect  position"  since  "God  made  man  up- 
right" (JMN,  IV,  333).    Henry  James,  Sr.,  later  praised  Emerson's  "erect  attitude  of  mind"  that  helped 
him  "undauntedly"  seek  "the  worthiest  tidings  of  God"  and  "calmly"  defy  "every  mumbling  phantom  which 
would  challenge  its  freedom. "10    But  where  is  man  best  positioned  in  this  world  of  the  actual  and  the  phe- 
nomenal?   By  marrying  one'  s  will  with  necessity,  an  act  is  begotten  and  soars  like  "an  angel  of  wisdom" 
freed  from  the  corrupt  world  by  the  incorruptible  force  of  the  mind  (JMN,  V,  321).    The  mind  surveys  the 
broken  promises  of  the  world  and,  "Behold  they  are  all  flat  and  here  is  the  Soul  erect  and  Unconquered 
still"(JMN,  V,  332).    "Let  me  teach  the  finite  to  know  its  Master.    Let  me  ascend  above  my  fate  and  work 
done  upon  my  world"  (Ibid.). 


9 
The  Self's  placement  on  the  heights  recalls  Christ  on  the  mount,  Thoreau  at  the  summit  of  the  Hoosack, 
and  Milly  Theale  perched  high  in  the  Alps  and  al  piano  superiore  at  the  Palazzo  Leporelli.    In  each  case 
there  is  the  temptation  to  gain  victory  over  life  by  being  apart  from  life .    In  each  instance  the  Soul  must 
"come  down"  (and  do  it  humanly,  not  float  down  upheld  by  flights  of  angels).    As  a  reward  for  his  return  to 
earth,  the  Erect  Man  is  able  to  examine  its  underpinnings  and  find  his  being  "imbedded  in  it."    "I  can  even 
with  a  mountainous  aspiring  say,  I  am  God,  by  transferring  my  Me  out  of  the  flimsy  &  unclean  precincts  of 
my  body,  my  fortunes,  my  private  will,   &  meekly  retiring  upon  the  holy  austerities  of  the  Just  &  the  Loving- - 
upon  the  secret  fountains  of  Nature"  QMN,  V,  336). 

The  temptation  to  be  god  by  hovering  above  the  world  has  been  resisted;  the  reward  is  the  discovery  of 
godhead  within.    "Yet  why  not  always  so?"  Emerson  had  to  ask.    "How  come  the  Individual  thus  armed  &  im- 
passioned to  parricide  thus  murderously  inclined  ever  to  traverse  &  kill  the  divine  life?    Ah  wicked  Manichee! 
Into  that  dim  problem  I  cannot  enter .    A  believer  in  Unity,  a  seer  of  Unity,  I  yet  behold  two . "    Pouring  over 
the  natural  world,   Emerson  continued,  "I  yet  find  little  access  to  this  Me  of  Me.    I  fear  what  shall  befall: 
I  am  not  enough  a  party  to  the  great  order  to  be  tranquil.    I  hope  &  I  fear  [;]   I  do  not  see.    At  one  time,  I 
am  a  Doer.    A  divine  life  I  create  [,  ]   scenes  &  persons  around  &  for  me  [,  ]    &  unfold  my  thought  by  a  per- 
petual successive  projection.    At  least  I  so  say,  I  so  feel.    But  presently  I  return  to  the  habitual  attitude  of 
suffering"  (JMN,  V,  337). 

"Cannot  I  conceive  the  Universe  without  a  contradiction,"  he  queries  (Ibid.);  then  writes  Margaret 
Fuller  of  the  homesickness  of  the  Genius  who  has  no  object  ready  to  wed  its  power  (JMN,  V,  344).    There  is 
that  hero,  however,  he  reminds  himself,  who  acts  to  expand  the  mind  into  new  worlds  of  spirit  (JMN,  V, 
349).    It  is  a  mind  that  has  broken  off  association  with  personality  to  blend  itself  with  the  universe .    "Be  a 
football  to  time  &  chance  [,  ]   the  more  kicks  the  better  so  you  inspect  the  whole  game  &  know  the  uttermost 
law"  (JMN,  V,  391).    The  Soul  is  now  engaged  with  the  earth  (not  above  it),  but  disengaged  from  the  ego. 
"The  Intellect  goes  out  of  the  Individual,   &  floats  over  its  own  being,   &  regards  its  own  being  always  as  a 
foreign  fact,  &  not  as  I  &  mine"  (JMN,  V,  446).    "Proportion  is  not  the  effect  of  circumstances  but  a  habit 
of  mind.    The  truth  is  the  Mind  is  a  perfect  measure  of  all  things  &  the  only  measure"  (JMN,  V,  436). 

The  journals  up  to  1838  show  Emerson  thrilling  to  the  mind'  s  power  of  active  and  independent  thrust. 
But  they  also  include  mention  of  his  awareness  that  the  mind  has  periods  when  it  admits,  and  tries  to  take, 
joy  in  its  subordination  to  a  greater  power:  "we  must  yet  admit  always  the  co -presence  of  a  superior  in- 
flux, must  pray,  must  hope  (and  what  is  hope  but  affirmation  of  two?),  must  doubt,  &c.  But  also  show  that 
to  seek  the  Unity  is  a  law  necessity  of  the  mind  [,  J  that  we  do  not  choose  to  resist  duality  [,  ]  complexity. 
Show  that  Will  is  absurd  in  the  matter"  (JMN,  V,  482).  This  notion,  therefore,  of  a  mind  fated  to  Unity  for 
its  own  salvation  enters  Emerson'  s  ken  very  early . 

The  journals  of  1838  to  1842  stress  the  notion  of  the  general  imbalance  of  men'  s  affairs  .    Men  are  lop- 
sided and  hold  God's  gifts  awry  (JMN,  VII,   149).    "Progress  of  the  Species!    Why  the  world  is  a  treadmill" 
(JMN,  VII,  220).    Perhaps,  as  one  of  Emerson's  acquaintances  argued,  the  world  is  "two,  is  Me  and  It,  then 
is  there  the  Alien,  the  Unknown,  and  all  we  have  believed  &  chanted  out  of  our  deep  instinctive  hope  is  a 
pretty  dream"  (JMN,  VII,  200).    The  world  and  self  must  be  connected,  or  all  is  lost.    Neither  is  sufficient 
unto  itself.    "A  pert  &  flippant  orater  remarked.  .  .that  the  World  could  stand  without  linch  pins  &  that  even 
if  you  should  cut  all  the  ropes  &  knock  away  the  whole  underpinning,  it  would  swing  &  poise  perfectly  for  the 
poise  was  in  the  globe  itself.    But  this  is  Transcendentalism"  (JMN,  VII,  221).    What  the  universe  swings 
from  is  man;  he  is  the  linch  pin  and  pivot  (JMN,  VII,  410).     But  man  also  requires  the  facts  of  the  actual  to 
gain  him  "good"  subjectivity  and  to  save  him  from  the  "bad"  subjectivity  which  lodges  reality  in  one'  s  petty 
personality  (JMN,  VII,  320). 

Emerson  is  here  at  the  height  of  his  active  arguments  that  one  is  able  to  get  control  and  keep  balance 
by  means  of  obedience  to  laws  outside  oneself.    He  is  increasingly  sensitive  to  that  which  would  enable  him 
in  1853  to  say  with  pleasure,  not  resignation,  that  there  is  a  "good"  fate  as  well  as  a  "bad"  fate  which  men 
can  choose  by  willing  receptivity  (L,  IV,  376-377).    We  need  the  actual  that  sets  up  limitations  in  order  that 
we  may  step  over  them  (JMN,  VII,  290).    We  need  life  that  "like  the  nimble  Tartar  still  overleaps  the 
Chinese  wall  of  distinctions"  (L,  II,  337;  1840).    "Blessed  is  Law"--that  which  stabilizes  whatever  lies  out- 
side in  the  world  of  Nature  and  within  in  the  worlds  of  the  Soul. 


10 

Being  is  not  enough.    Organization  by  shaping,  naming,  creating  forms  symbolic  of  the  Eternal  Law  is 
required.    These  acts  originate  as  ideas  in  the  poet'  s  mind,  but  the  ideas  themselves  spring  from  facts.  But 
new  notes  of  wild,  formless  Bacchanalian  abandon  are  heard  in  the  journals  of  1841  among  the  calls  for  or- 
ganization and  order.    "We  wish  to  take  the  gas  which  allows  us  to  break  through  your  wearisome  proprieties, 
to  plant  the  foot,  to  set  the  teeth,  to  fling  abroad  the  arms,   &  dance  &  sing"  (JMN,  VIII,   117).    Such  rhapso- 
dies are  followed  fast,  however,  by  words  of  warning  to  avoid  charlatanry.il    Also  words  of  sadness  verging 
near  despair.    How  quickly  the  Devil  Necessity  can  leap  upon  our  backs  once  we  admit  his  power  (JMN,  VIII, 
23).    The  "best  persons"  now  "sit  &  wait"  and  "hold  themselves  aloof"  because  they  sense  the  gap  between 
power  and  aims;  they  "prefer  to  go  into  the  country  &  gaze  at  the  skies  &  the  waters  &  perish  of  ennui" 
rather  than  carry  out  the  barren  ambitions  of  Boston  (JMN,  VIII,  120).    "Hence  the  appearance. .  .of  an  aim- 
less society,  an  aimless  nation,  an  aimless  world."    The  would-be  man  of  action  is  "starved  for  objects  and 
seizes  a  pistol  or  perhaps  some  slow  poison  of  dice  box  or  alcohol  or  ambition  in  the  State  [--]   cantharides 
for  vigor"  (JMN,  VIII,   136). 

Emerson  wrote  Margaret  Fuller  in  December,   1841,  that  "we  are  all  in  the  arms  of  Must  more  than 
of  Will"  (L,  II,  471).    The  next  month  Must  would  enfold  little  Waldo  in  its  arms,  and  the  father  would  have 
to  find  new  ways  to  activate  his  will  in  order  to  have  faith  in  his  fate.    His  piling  up  of  melancholy  images  of 
plagues,  boredom,  and  urges  to  cut  and  run  is  countered  by  "We  are  not  Manichaeans  [,  J  not  believers  in 
two  hostile  principles  but  we  think  evil  arises  from  disproportion,  interruption,  mistake  of  means  for  end" 
(JMN,  VIII,  137).    Apollo  is  still  the  wiser  God  than  Dionysus,  and  the  gymnasts  of  faith  need  learn  to  modu- 
late their  movements .    Attempts  to  dodge  the  attendant  fates  by  the  "fool'  s  trick"  of  tunneling  through  the 
earth  merely  lands  one  upside  down  in  a  topsy-turvy  universe  (JMN,  VIII,   185). 

At  this  point,  perhaps  his  life's  nadir,   Emerson  affirms  that  fate  aids  one  to  fulfill  blessedness,  and 
that  to  be  an  enemy  of  fate  is  to  deny  goodness.    Goodness  is  being;  being  is  character;  character  still  re- 
quires form  in  order  that  it  may  not  be  "upset"  (JMN,  VIII,  200).    It  is  1842  and  Waldo  is  dead;  "the  beauti- 
ful Creative  power  looked  out  from  him  &  spoke  of  anything  but  chaos  &  interruption;  signified  strength  & 
unity--&  gladdening,  all-uniting  life"  (L,  III,   10).    The  father's  mind  that  previously  took  joy  in  leaping  and 
diving  now  tends  to  balance  over  "the  middle  region  of  our  being"--"the  equator  of  life,  of  thought,  of  spirits, 
of  poetry;  a  narrow  belt"  (JMN,  VIII,  200). 

By  now  Emerson  relies  increasingly  upon  the  power  of  words .    One  avoids  the  unlucky  ones  ("As  long 
as  we  use  this  word  [Fate  J  ,  it  is  a  sign  of  our  impotence  &  that  we  are  not  yet  ourselves")  and  repeats  the 
talismanic  phrases  ("I  am  Defeated  all  the  time;  yet  to  Victory  I  am  born")  (JMN,  VIII,  228).    He  writes 
Margaret  Fuller  that  he  will  try  to  bring  order  to  his  life  from  his  heart .    The  mind  facing  grief  might  be 
tilted  too  easily,  for  "by  infirm  faith  we  lose  our  delicate  balance,  flounder  about  &  come  into  the  realms  & 
under  the  laws  of  mud  &  stones"  (L,  III,   178;  1843). 

Emerson  is  once  more  the  man  who  keeps  himself  apart  in  order  to  keep  some  sense  of  equilibrium 
and  wholeness  .    "Each  man  being  the  Universe,  if  he  attempt  to  join  himself  to  others,  he  instantly  is 
jostled,  crowded,  cramped,  halved,  quartered,  or  on  all  sides  diminished  of  his  proportion"  (JMN,  VIII, 
251).    Increasingly  he  notes  the  limitations  to  man'  s  desire  for  the  kind  of  total  power  that  is  his  if  he  could 
only  "jump  out  of  his  skin, "  but  man  may  not,  "for  his  skin  is  the  world"--not  his  mind  alone  (JMN,  VIII, 
252). 

Increasingly  the  self-admonition  comes  to  follow  the  Ideal,  the  Law.    "And  thou  shalt  serve  the  god 
Terminus,  the  bounding  Intellect,   &  love  Boundary  or  Form:  believing  that  Form  is  an  oracle  which  never 
lies"  (JMN,  VIII,  405).    Form  no  longer  comes  easily  to  Emerson  by  means  of  ecstasy  and  spontaneous  in- 
spiration; it  takes  effort  to  attain  it.    "I  think  often  where  shall  I  get  a  whip  for  my  top.    I  have  a  top  which 
will  spin  like  the  Sisters'  Wheel,   &  it  has  a  poise  like  a  planet  &  a  hum  like  the  spheral  music,  yet  it  re- 
fuses to  spin  [.]     Every  atom,  I  have  read  in  the  cosmogonists,  has  a  spiral  tendency,  an  intrinsic  effort 
to  spin.    In  this  strait  I  think  of  how  many  external  sources  where  we  might  borrow  that  desireable  push" 
(L,  III,  387;  1847).    Work,  war,  want,  revolutions,  "other  things,"  are  suggested;  but  some  "other"  is  re- 
quired.   If  it  is  fearful  to  be  caught  powerless  in  the  whirl  of  time;  it  is  also  fearsome  to  be  adrift  in  the 
calms.    Life  must  have  motion.    Who  will  furnish  it,  and  to  what  ends  motion  moves,  continued  to  be  Emer- 
son' s  constant  question  even  when  once  the  pulse  of  his  own  life  began  to  falter. 


11 

Toward  the  close  of  his  active  mental  life,  Emerson  looked  back  over  the  decades  between  1820  and 
1840  with  the  perspective  of  a  man  who  both  cherished  and  lightly  chastised  the  Faustian  romanticism  of 
those  bright  young  men  "born  with  knives  in  their  brain,  a  tendency  to  introversion."    That  had  been  the 
time  when  everyone  was  "for  himself;  driven  to  find  all  his  resources,  hopes,  rewards,  society  and  deity 
within  himself"  (W,  X,  329).    They  had  been  men  of  mind,  theorists  run  to  extremes  who  tended  "to  forget 
the  limitations, "  dreamers  of  Brook  Farm  where  "impulse  was  the  rule  in  the  society,  without  centripetal 
balance. . ."  (Ibid. ,  355,  361).    Lacking  a  central  authority,  a  universal  law  to  heed,  their  individual  egos 
clashed,  and  the  experience  ended,  successful  only  as  experience,  not  as  the  attainment  of  the  blessed  state. 

In  marked  contrast  to  these  gentle  but  somewhat  patronizing  comments  on  egos  whirling  will-I,  nil-I, 
Emerson's  essays  "Aristocracy,"  "Character,"  and  "The  Sovereignty  of  Ethics"--not  published  until  1878 
and  1884--assert  an  anti-Faustian  sense  of  self-discipline  and  adherence  to  a  beautiful  (not  a  dire)  Nemesis . 
People  are  different,  Emerson  argues;  those  born  finer  of  temperament  and  mind  are  the  elite  blessed  by 
fortune's  stars.    The  moral  aristocrat  severs  himself  from  public  displays  of  power,  shuns  both  Chartists 
and  the  oppressing  rich,  remains  cool  without  excessive  hopes  or  fears,  and  stays  the  "true  knight"  by 
loyalty  to  his  own  thoughts  (W,  X).    In  "Character"  Emerson  praises  the  Universal  Mind  that  is  superior  to 
all  things--the  great  "I  am"  that  is  the  fatal,  beautiful  law  over  nature,  the  gods,  and  men's  minds  (W,  X). 
"The  Sovereignty  of  Ethics"  presents  both  a  doctrine  of  trust  in  universal  justice  and  a  faith  in  the  freedom 
to  choose  perfection  forced  upon  us  from  birth;  it  also  extols  the  virtues  of  rectitude  and  the  yielding  of 
private  desires  to  the  divine  mind  (W,  X). 

None  of  these  three  essays  is  a  startling  departure  from  what  Emerson  had  expressed,  often  with  more 
vigor  and  effectiveness,  in  his  earlier  contemplations.    Indeed,  since  it  was  Emerson's  habit  from  the  first 
to  view  his  theme  of  compensation  from  every  conceivable  angle  of  vision,  it  is  hardly  likely  not  to  be  able 
to  scout  out  ideas  made  in  the  1830'  s  or  1840'  s  and  again  in  the  later  decades .    This  is  not  the  main  point. 
Even  allowing  for  Emerson's  buckshot  method,  the  important  fact  is  that  he  continues  to  give  essentially 
the  same  attention  to  balancing  out  that  interdependency  of  freedom  and  fate  which  requires  that  each  be  the 
other'  s  master. 

Many  of  the  essays  drawn  together  after  1860  continue  to  call  for  the  faith  to  join  fate  with  freedom. 
It  is  the  embellishments  that  draw  attention  to  themselves .    "Worship"  and  its  opening  poem  devote  them- 
selves to  driving  out  demon  Luck  by  the  worship  of  the  good  gods  of  unity,  work,  cause  and  effect.    "Demon- 
ology"  carries  on  the  assault  against  illogical  Chance,  lawless  Whim,  and  those  secretive  fragments  that 
pretend  to  be  the  whole,  as  well  as  against  the  temptations  to  power  without  responsibility  and  to  mind 
slipped  loose  from  its  controls.    "Education"  extols  Genius  as  of  old,  but  now  unites  it  with  Drill--the  ac- 
curacy of  arithmetic  and  Latin  grammar  adding  the  precision  freedom  requires .    "The  Superlative"  ends  by 
comparing  the  Far  East  with  the  West:    in  "the  question  of  final  superiority,  it  is  too  plain  that  there  is  no 
question  that  the  star  of  empire  rolls  West:  that  the  warm  sons  of  the  Southeast  have  bent  the  neck  under  the 
yoke  of  the. .  .Northwestern  races"  (W,  X,   179).    "Power"  and  "Wealth"  (1860),  "Civilization  at  a  Pinch" 
(1862),  "The  Scholar"  (1876),  and  "Perpetual  Forces"  (1877)  sound  similar  motifs:    successful  men  are 
those  blessed  with  the  temperament  that  lets  them  put  the  forces  of  Nature  to  use  for  their  own,  and  others'  , 
benefit;  all  men  are  the  proteges  of  Necessity;  Order  is  the  universal  law,  obeyed  alike  by  Nature  and  man; 
the  world  stands  between  balanced  antagonisms;  man  is  not  made  for  rest  but  for  action  and  usefulness; 
heroes  like  Napoleon  always  "land  on  their  feet."    "Blessed  is  all  that  agitates  the  mass,  breaks  up  this  tor- 
por, and  begins  motion,"  even  if  the  agent  be  war.    War--"the  Father  of  all  things" --"passes  the  power  of 
all  chemical  solvents,  breaking  up  the  old  adhesions,  and  allowing  the  atoms  of  society  to  take  a  new  order" 
(W,  XI,  533;  341). 

Over  and  over  we  are  told  that  infusions  of  character  and  charges  of  power  must  be  sought  by  what- 
ever means,  as  long  as  the  end  of  motion -as -unity  is  attained.    Are  these  the  reprehensible  statements  of 
a  man  gone  mildly  mad  with  respectability  and  the  desire  for  order  at  any  cost?    Certainly  there  are  un- 
pleasant connotations  to  many  of  the  ideas  and  images  in  Emerson's  latter-day  essays,  especially  to  any- 
one sensitized  by  recent  fanaticisms  of  order  and  action.    But  before  handing  Emerson  either  to  the  dust- 
heap  of  the  harmlessly  senile  or  locking  him  up  among  the  totalitarian  tyrants,  it  will  help  to  test  the  styl- 
istic and  rhetorical  strategies  used  by  Emerson  the  writer.    Up  to  this  point  we  have  been  dealing  with  him 
largely  as  a  balancer  of  ideas  .    Now  let  us  judge  his  balancing  act  with  words  and  review  his  aesthetics  of 
faith  and  fate . 


12 

V 

In  1848  S^ren  Kierkegaard  wrote  out  his  apologia  in  The  Point  of  View  for  My  Work  as  an  Author .    In 
it  he  insisted  that  he  had  been  a  religious  writer  from  the  start;  he  had  not  begun  as  an  aesthete,  then 
changed.    He  maintained  that  the  religious  writer  must  "first  get  into  touch  with  men.    That  is,  he  must  be- 
gin with  aesthetic  achievement."    He  must  not  delay  too  long,  however,  to  reveal  his  true  goals,  or  tip  his 
hand  too  soon.    "If  too  long  a  time  elapses,  the  illusion  gains  ground  that  the  aesthetic  writer  has  become 
older  and  hence  religious.    If  it  comes  too  soon,  the  effect  is  not  violent  enough. "12 

With  Nature,  "The  Divinity  School  Address,  "  and  "The  American  Scholar,  "  Emerson  might  easily 
have  been  taken  for  a  man  concerned  primarily  with  aesthetic  or  worldly  matters .    With  "Compensation" 
and  Essays,   First  Series  in  1841  he  clearly  revealed  that  obsessive  theme  that  had  been  surfacing  in  his 
journals  and  letters  since  1831.    Compensation  was  the  "King  Charles'  head"  that  Emerson,  like  Dickens' 
Mr.  Dick,  could  not  keep  out  of  his  writings  .    It  was  the  design  he  put  into  almost  every  one  of  his  lectures 
and  essays.    But,  as  Thoreau  said  of  the  Indian  who  had  woven  a  large  supply  of  baskets,  that  Indian  had  to 
learn  that  he  had  to  sell  them.    To  do  that  he  had  to  create  a  demand. 

Jonathan  Bishop  and  Ann  Douglas  Wood  have  characterized  Emerson'  s  typical  audience  as  comprised 
of  the  weak,  the  young,  and  the  confused- -those  guilty  persons  who  wanted  to  hope,  and  had  sufficient  hope 
just  to  be  there  in  the  lecture  hall  waiting  for  the  master'  s  words  that  might  bring  them  back  to  muscular 
self-confidence  in  their  power  to  control  fate.  13    Such  an  audience  was  not,  however,  an  easy  mark.    It 
could  be  critical  if  its  expectancies  were  unsatisfied.    The  editor's  notes  to  the  1867  lecture,  "The  Progress 
of  Culture, "  show  Emerson  initially  heading  for  failure  in  both  his  delivery  and  his  message.    Having  mis- 
laid his  spectacles,  he  stumbled  somewhat  at  the  beginning,  then  moved  smoothly  enough  through  the  first 
part  of  his  address  as  he  extolled  America'  s  material  advantages:    "Mr.  Emerson  enumerated  the  inven- 
tions, the  comforts,  the  conveniences  at  such  length.  .  .and  in  so  uniform  a  tone  of  cheerful  praise  that  some 
members  of  his  family  even  began  to  be  troubled  at  what  he  would  have  called  "the  catalogue  style,  "  and  to 
feel  that  the  oration  was  not  to  be  up  to  the  level  of  his  usual  writing.    Suddenly  he  took  the  very  thought  in 
our  minds,   '  We  have  had  enough  of  these  boastful  recitals, '  and  with  great  effect  exclaimed,   '  Then  I  say, 
Happy  is  the  land  where  benefits  like  this  have  grown  trite  and  commonplace!'     Then,  in  a  tone  quiet  and  low, 
but  with  great  flexibility,  he  began  the  second  part  of  the  lecture  and  gradually  worked  up  to  his  finest  de- 
livery in  the  concluding  passages"  (W,  VIII,  407-408). 

By  openly  meeting  the  inner  uneasiness  of  his  audience  against  the  "trite  and  commonplace,  "  Emer- 
son "redeemed  the  day  by  his  best  delivery  of  the  later  ascending  portion  of  the  oration"  (Ibid. ,  405;  my 
italics).    He  had  broken  the  vicious  circle  of  platitudes  and  repetitions  and  moved  into  the  spiral  form  needed 
to  excite  his  audience'  s  hopes  and  to  calm  their  doubts .    Are  we  as  readily  placated  today  by  rhetorical 
manipulations  and  modulations  of  the  voice?    As  we  move  through  Emerson'  s  various  pronouncements  on  the 
happy  fatalism  of  life,  his  encouragements  that  the  Eternal  Goodness  of  the  Blessed  Realm  of  Noumena  al- 
ways balances  out  the  petty  evils  resident  on  the  phenomenal  plane,  and  his  assurances  that  we  are  coerced 
into  freedom  for  our  own  good,  do  we  believe  him  for  a  moment;  for  a  series  of  moments? 

Our  responses  to  whatever  we  read  act  in  at  least  these  four  ways:    (1)  we  respond  in  terms  of  how 
the  facts  of  life  as  we  have  personally  experienced  them  concur  with  or  differ  from  the  pictured  facts;  (2) 
we  respond  to  the  language  of  the  representation  as  it  bores  or  excites  us  in  ways  that  may  merely  confirm 
our  first  set  of  responses ,  but  might  possibly  carry  them  in  another  direction;  the  language  may  convince 
us  even  as  our  experience  urges  us  to  reject  it;  (3)  we  respond  positively  in  accord  with  the  amount  of  re- 
spect we  feel  for  the  profundity  of  the  writer'  s  mind  as  it  displays  itself  before  us,  even  if  we  tend  to  dis- 
agree with  his  conclusions;  (4)  we  respond  to  the  vision  of  the  ideal  life  he  proposes,  even  if  life  as  it  is 
now  arranged  makes  its  fulfillment  improbable,  as  long  as  it  satisfies  our  sense  of  should  be;  that  is,  we 
may  prefer  Dante'  s  vision  of  Paradise  to  that  of  Edward  Bellamy'  s  Heavenly  Department  Store,  though  the 
attainment  of  either  is  unlikely. 

Following  is  an  extended  example  of  the  trouble  Emerson  might  well  have  today  in  convincing  a  reader- - 
one  familiar  with  his  theses  and  sufficiently  open  to  his  arguments;  that  is,  a  reader  who  is  myself.    I  pur- 
posely work  with  an  essay  taken  from  Emerson'  s  late  period.    The  problems  he  has  in  persuading  people  in 
the  twentieth  century  are  at  their  greatest  in  these  later  essays  because  of  the  direct  frontal  statements  he 


13 
makes  on  social  and  political  matters  of  his  own  day.  They  are  matters  less  easy  for  us  to  handle  with  ob- 
jectivity, because  their  current  versions  are  so  immediate  to  our  lives .    Emersonian  metaphysics  of  trans- 
parent eyeballs  and  the  Orphic  Poet  can,  after  all,  be  relegated  to  detached  areas  of  our  contemplation  if 
we  so  choose,  but  matters  of  social  ethics  thump  out  their  insistence  to  be  reckoned  with  and  evaluated. 

I  shall  test  the  eye-teeth  of  my  responses  on  "Considerations  By  the  Way."    This  essay  discussed  at- 
titudes toward  the  mass  and  the  individual.    "Away  with  the  hurrah  of  masses,  "  Emerson  says .    "Leave  this 
hypocritical  prating  about  the  masses.    Masses  are  rude,  lame,  unmade,  pernicious  in  their  demands  and 
influence,  and  need  not  to  be  flattered  but  to  be  schooled.    I  wish  not  to  concede  anything  to  them,  but  to 
tame,  drill,  divide  and  break  them  up,  and  draw  individuals  out  of  them"  (W,  VI,  249).    The  first  part  of 
this  sentence  appeals  to  all  my  baser  instincts,  especially  apt  to  bristle  on  bad  days  when  my  sense  of  the 
facts  of  things  coincides  with  the  facts  as  Emerson  construes  them.    But  to  the  final  clause--"and  draw  in- 
dividuals out  of  them"--it  is  my  higher  instincts  that  respond,  without  the  promptings  of  the  need  to  ask  my- 
self if  I  ought  to  feel  shame  for  agreeing  with  the  man.    To  my  soul's  relief,  any  quickening  sense  of  guilt 
over  what  might  be  called  Emerson'  s  dormant  fascism  is  here  offset  by  the  closing  assurance  that  all  this 
taming,  drilling,  dividing  and  breaking  will  be  done  to  make  individuals  out  of  them,  not  a  docile  herd  co- 
erced by  the  Hero -Leader. 

Two  pages  later  Emerson  states,  "To  say  then,  the  majority  are  wicked,  means  no  malice,  no  bad 
heart  in  the  observer,  but  simply  that  the  majority  are  unripe,  and  have  not  yet  come  to  themselves,  do  not 
yet  know  their  opinion.    That,  if  they  knew  it,  is  an  oracle  for  them  and  for  all"  (Ibid. ,  252).    I  check  my 
responses  minutely  to  see  if  I  am  feeling  what  I  think  I  ought  to  feel  according  to  my  age's  best  instincts,  or 
what  I  think  Emerson  is  guiding  me  to,  or  what  I  detect  among  my  own  hodge-podge  of  moral  and  amoral 
reactions  .    Yes,  I  first  instinctively  say,  mass  is  mess;  then  I  draw  quickly  back,  as  if  my  conscience 
were  burnt,  to  consider  whether  I  am  being  wrongly  or  rightly  snobbish.    I  must  reconsider  the  conventional 
notion  that  Emerson  is  an  elitist  (bad)  as  opposed  to  the  People  (good).    I  must  then  decide  what  I  feel  when 
Emerson  tells  me--in  his  own  defense  and  in  recognition  of  the  opposition  view--that  he  intends  no  malice. 
What  is  interesting,  I  find,  is  that  it  is  by  this  particular  stroke  that  he  loses  me. 

I  wonder  if  this  loss  of  power  is  so  because  Emerson  turned  toward  me,  almost  apologetically,  to  ask 
me  not  to  think  ill  of  him .    If  he  had  gone  all  the  way  without  once  inserting  the  doubt  that  malice  might  be 
inferred,  he  would  have  impressed  me  truly.    He  would  have  kept  my  trust  if  he  had  had  the  courage  of  his 
convictions  that  the  real  servants  of  mankind  are  those  few  able  to  release  men'  s  souls  from  cloddish  sub- 
servience to  Fate  by  freeing  them  from  the  generalized  mass  into  the  single,  solitary  self  shaping  its  own 
destiny. 

My  sense  is  that  Emerson  will  win  his  points  with  me  only  when  he  audaciously  insists  on  pressing  to 
the  extreme  my  trust  in  his  faith  in  the  lonely,  essentially  anti -social  journey  each  soul  must  take  to  keep 
its  reunion  with  its  fate .    This  hunch  is  confirmed  later  in  the  essay .    Emerson  has  been  making  some  exag- 
gerated, perhaps  high-handed  and  foolish,  but  still  interesting  assertions.    "The  frost  which  kills  the  har- 
vest of  a  year  saves  the  harvests  of  a  century,  by  destroying  the  weevil  or  the  locust.    Wars,  fires,  plagues, 
break  up  immovable  routine,  clear  the  ground  of  rotten  races  and  dens  of  distemper,  and  open  a  fair  field 
to  new  men. . . .    The  sharpest  evils  are  bent  into  that  periodicity  which  makes  the  errors  of  planets  and  the 
fevers  and  distempers  of  men,  self-limiting.    Nature  is  upheld  by  antagonism"  (W,  VI,  254).    Here,  where 
Emerson  is  perhaps  really  cruel  in  his  dismissal  of  individual  suffering  and  his  blithe  willingness  to  sacri- 
fice races  now  for  a  perfected  future,  I  wonder  if  he  has  not  cunningly  prepared  me  to  accept  this  "compen- 
sation" formula  with  little  questioning  because,  with  "candor, "  he  has  permitted  me  to  question  him  earlier 
about  his  malice. 

On  the  next  page  Emerson  proceeds  to  embellish  the  theme  of  strength  through  the  surmounting  of 
pain.    "We  acquire  the  strength  we  have  overcome.    Without  war,  no  soldiers;  without  enemies,  no  hero . 
The  sun  were  insipid  if  the  universe  were  not  opaque.    And  the  glory  of  character  is  in  affronting  the  hor- 
rors of  depravity  to  draw  thence  new  nobilities  of  power. . . .    What  would  painter  do,  or  what  would  poet  or 
saint,  but  for  crucifixions  and  hells?    And  evermore  in  the  world  is  this  marvellous  balance  of  beauty  and 
disgust,  magnificence  and  rats"  (W,   V,  225).     At  this  point  my  sense  is  that  Emerson  is  speaking  out  ec- 
centrically but  with  accuracy  concerning  human  psychological  processes;  he  is  not  wrong  in  showing  that 
nobility  can  come  from  resistance  to  suffering.    But  do  we --here  it  is  necessary  to  shift  from  one  person'  s 


14 
response  to  that  of  us  all- -resent  having  what  is  probably  the  truth  about  the  way  things  are  justified  as  well? 
Do  we  wish  it  argued  that  nobility  attained  by  way  of  suffering  proves  the  goodness  of  the  Universal  Laws? 

We  are  now,  of  course,  at  that  impasse  where  we  end  sooner  or  later  with  types  like  Dante,  Milton, 
Edwards,  or  Emerson.    Everything  such  writers  do  to  persuade  us  depends  upon  our  ability  to  share  their 
faith  that  not  only  is  there  pain  but  there  is  also  just  cause  for  pain.    We  must  sustain  faith  that  the  larger 
view  of  existence  reveals  a  balancing  design,  not  chaotic  meaninglessness;  a  design  that  is  good,  not  malev- 
olent. 

In  1841  Emerson  admitted  that  only  three  people --Alcott,  Thoreau,  and  himself- -understood  the  laws 
of  compensation  (JMN,  VIII,  96).    Others  than  those  chosen  three  would  have  to  find  their  way  to  belief  by 
other  means.    We  cannot  rely,  therefore,  on  pinning  down  audience  responses  to  Emerson's  essays,  early 
or  late,  according  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  intellectual  logic  employed.    Even  an  examination  of  his  ap- 
peals to  the  psychology  of  immediate  human  needs  does  not  go  far  enough.    We  must  face  the  terrible  fact 
of  the  faith  in  fate  Emerson  demands  of  us .    On  his  ability  to  elicit  such  faith  his  whole  success  or  failure 
rests. 

VI 

In  1837  Emerson  noted  in  his  journals  that  in  writing,  the  how  was  more  important  than  the  what  (JMN, 
V,  304-305).    "We  do  not  value  that  which  cannot  express  its  drift,  "  he  observed  in  1841.    "Therefore,  how- 
ever confused  your  aims,  out  with  them  &  let  confusion  be  expressed.    But  do  not  fix  your  will  on  any  form 
as  a  novel,  an  Epic,  or  a  dialogue. .  .but  ask  the  fact  for  the  form"  (JMN,  VIII,  101).    If  the  whatness  is 
about  confusion,  the  howness  must  be  presented  as  confusion  too,  though  clarified  as  meaning.    The  fact 
matches  form  (phenomenal)  in  the  process  it  takes  of  questing  for  that  Form  (noumenal)  that  is  "an  oracle 
that  never  lies  ."    Two  unalikes,  that  yet  belong  together,  are  brought  together  in  the  imagination:    the  re- 
sult, "far  more  goodly  and  efficient  than  either"  (JMN,  VII,  24;  1838).    This,  then,  was  the  first  of  Emer- 
son's strategems,  to  act  like  the  busy  bee  that  flies  between  mint  and  marjoram  to  create  honey  (JMN,  VIII, 
64;  1841).    Art  (which  is  Will)  shall  and  must  work  with  Nature  (which  is  the  principle  of  Must)  in  order  to 
blend  both  into  the  moon-smooth  curve  of  the  All  (JMN,  V,   164;  1836). 

The  necessary  language  used  in  such  an  endeavor  depends  upon  prose  variations  of  "on  the  one  hand" 
and  "on  the  other  hand."  Nothing  is  "so  large  &  nothing  so  thin  but  it  has  two  sides,  and  when  he  [the  phi- 
losopher-poet] has  seen  the  outside  he  turns  it  over  to  see  the  other  face."  We  are  so  constituted,  Emer- 
son explains,  that  we  "never  tire  of  this  game,  because  ever  a  slight  shudder  of  astonishment  pervades  us 
at  the  exhibition  of  the  other  side  of  the  button,  --at  the  contrast  of  the  two  sides . .  .called  in  the  language  of 
philosophy,  Finite  &  Infinite,  Visible  &  Spiritual,  Relation  &  Absolute,  Apparent  &  Eternal,  &  many  more 
fine  names"  (JMN,  VIII,  82;  1841). 

The  Emersonian  artist'  s  method  in  his  writing  is  analogous  to  his  balancing  position  between  the 
Truth  he  sees  and  the  audience  he  writes  for;  he  must  "occupy  the  whole  space  between  God  and  the  mob. 
He  must  draw  from  the  infinite  source  on  the  one  side  &  he  must  penetrate  into  the  heart  &  mind  of  the 
rabble  on  the  other.    From  one,  he  must  draw  his  strength;  to  the  other,  he  must  owe  his  Aim"  (JMN,  V, 
249;  1836).    Men  seem  able  only  to  disconnect,  to  make  dots  as  they  move  through  the  universe,  because 
they  have  little  mastery  over  their  actions;  worms  leave  slimy  trails  behind  themselves  (L,  II,  441;  1841). 
Perhaps  the  artist  can  act  like  the  comets  and  cause  trajectiles  of  light;  if  not,  his  dots  may  suffice  as  phos- 
phorescent paths  through  the  night.    "The  scattered  blocks"  with  which  the  methodizing  mind  "strives  to 
form  a  symmetrical  structure,  fit.    This  design  following  after  finds  with  joy  that  like  design  went  before. 
Not  only  man  puts  things  in  a  row,  but  things  belong  in  a  row."    "Without  identity  at  base,  chaos  must  be 
forever."    This  is  the  one  true  fatality:    "This  reduction  to  a  few  laws,  to  one  law,  is  not  a  choice  of  the  in- 
dividual, it  is  the  tyrannical  instinct  of  the  mind"  (W,  XII,  20-21). 

Fated  as  we  are  to  unify,  and  equally  driven  to  examine  the  many  sides  of  life,  we  must  not  be  caught 
within  a  circle  that  never  moves  onwards  .    "I  thought,  as  I  read,  "  Emerson  wrote  Alcott  in  1838,  "of  the 
Indian  jungles,  vast  &  flowering,  where  the  sky  &  stars  are  visible  alway,  but  no  house,  no  mountain,  no 
man,  no  definite  objects  whatever,   &  no  change,  or  progress;  &  so,  one  acre  in  it  is  like  another,   &  I  can 
sleep  in  it  for  centuries .    But  mortal  man  must  save  his  time,  &  see  a  new  thing  at  every  step"  (L,  II,  140). ^ 


15 

Emerson'  s  method  is  ever  to  move  onward  to  a  new  thing  that  suggests  the  One  and  the  Whole .    Gen- 
eralities and  particulars;  will  and  abandonment;  the  social  and  the  solitary;  man  and  opportunity  (JMN,  VII, 
439;  1841).    Preachers  are  worthless  who  read  from  their  sermons  with  one  voice  and  speak  with  another, 
who  upset  the  relation  between  Sunday -actions  and  those  of  the  weekday,  because  unable  to  bear  the  shock 
of  moving  with  agility  between  the  mind  and  eternity  (W,  X,  229;  232).    One'  s  lectures,  he  wrote  brother 
William  in  1841,  are  "capable  of  a  variety  of  style  &  matter  which  no  other  form  of  composition  admits" 
(L,  II,  460).    The  mind  that  creates  and  the  thought  that  receives  it- -all,  all  in  balance  (JMN,  VII,  534; 
1840). 

But  is  this  desire  for  perfect  stylistic  balance,  always  linked  as  it  is  to  his  philosophy  of  compensa- 
tion, boring?    Do  we  find  ourselves  on  a  seesaw -Margery -Daw,  moving  monotonously  between  "this"  and 
"that, "  "dark"  and  "light,"  "nay"  and  "yea"?    "If  a  man  has  a  see-saw  in  his  voice,"  Emerson  wrote,  "it 
will  run  into  his  sentences,  into  his  poem,  into  the  structure  of  his  fable,  into  his  speculation,  into  his 
charity"  (W,  VI,  45).    Was  it  wise  for  him  to  remind  us  of  just  that  defect  he  may  prove  to  possess?  Is  it 
child's  play,  and  thus  dull,  to  be  rocked  in  kindly  paternal  arms,  or  are  we  to  suffer  the  sudden  sinking 
feeling  that  comes  when  tossed  high  in  the  air?    If  we  are  so  tossed,  is  it  to  gain  that  pleasure  we  feel  when 
we  know  that  Papa  will  surely  catch  us  as  we  fall?    Yes .    At  least  this  was  Emerson'  s  intention:    to  surprise 
us  to  joy--C.  S.  Lewis'  definition  of  the  coming  to  faith- -and  thus  to  persuade  us  in  ways  which  the  usual 
strategies,  intellectual  and  emotional,  cannot  effect. 

In  "The  Superlative"  Emerson  rebuked  "horror -mongers"  who  lead  one  to  "suppose  that  they  lived  in 
a  museum,  where  all  the  objects  were  monsters  and  extremes"  (W,  X,   163,   164).    He  was  far  more  enthu- 
siastic about  excess  in  a  journal  entry  of  1841.    Sounding  almost  Thoreauvian,  he  wrote,  "Exaggeration  is 
a  law  of  nature"  (JMN,  VIII,  87).    It  is  not  a  world  of  dull  checks  and  balances  he  wishes  .    "The  air  would 
rot  without  lightning.    And  without  this  violence  of  direction  which  men  &  women  have,  without  bigots,  no 
excitement,  no  efficiency.    Aim  above  the  mark  to  hit  the  mark"  (Ibid.).    Above  all,  have  a  mark,  a  direc- 
tion, and  one  is  freed  from  the  moral  see-saw  of  a-wrong-and-a-right-make-a-good  that  gets  you  no  place 
in  particular  in  the  art  of  persuasion. 

As  Emerson  looked  about  him  he  observed:    '"  Tis  the  age  of  Parenthesis  .    You  might  put  all  we  say 
in  brackets  &  it  would  not  be  missed"  (JMN,  V,  91;  1835).    Since  he  had  to  render  his  words  indispensable, 
he  called  for  "some  fierce  antagonism"  to  "break  the  round  of  perfect  circulation  or  no  spark,  no  joy,  no 
event  can  be"  (JMN,  VII,  272;  1839).    We  must  escape  the  irritation  felt  by  Xenophanes  over  noting  "that  all 
things  hastened  back  to  Unity  [,  ]  Identity.    He  was  weary  of  seeing  the  same  thing  in  a  tedious  variety  of 
forms"  (JMN,  V,   136;  1836).    "Who  can  blame  men  for  seeking  excitement?"  he  asked.    "They  are  polar  & 
would  you  have  them  sleep  in  a  dull  eternity  of  equilibrium?"  (JMN,  VII,  272). 

Emerson  saw  that  "Nature  hates  calm  system-makers,  her  methods  saltatory,  impulsive.    Man  lives 
by  pulses,  all  his  organic  movements  are  such,  and  all  chemical  &  etherial,  even  seem  to  be  undulatory  or 
alternate.    And  so  with  the  mind,  it  antagonizes  ever,   &  gets  on  so"  (JMN,  VIII,  317;  1842).    "The  world 
would  run  into  endless  routine,  and  forms  encrust  forms,  till  the  life  was  gone.    But  the  perpetual  supply  of 
new  genius  shocks  us  with  thrills  of  life,  and  recalls  us  to  principles"  (W,  X,   102).    He  proposed  this 
strategy:    "If  you  desire  to  arrest  attention,  to  surprise,  do  not  give  me  facts  in  the  order  of  cause  &  ef- 
fect, but  drop  one  or  two  links  in  the  chain,  &  give  me  with  a  cause,  an  effect  two  or  three  times  removed" 
(JMN,  VII,  90;  1838). 15 

Jonathan  Bishop,  in  noting  that  Emerson's  best  sentences  break  the  circle  and  begin  to  spiral,  points 
out  his  simultaneous  use  of  paradox  (which  surprises)  and  redundancy  (which  confirms);  the  sentences  say 
the  same  thing  but  we  are  urged  into  feeling  several  emotions,  both  fear  and  gladness .  1°    Puns  also  encour- 
age repetition  and  novelty.    But  perhaps  the  most  vital  of  Emerson's  methods --and  one  which  fits  his  the- 
matic concern  over  a  fate  that  is  not  random  chance- -is  the  use  he  made  of  the  aesthetics  of  "hazard." 

VII 

According  to  Sister  Mary  Francis  Slattery  in  her  study,  Hazard,  Form  and  Value,  affective  hazard  is 
defined  in  these  terms:    "The  greater  the  sum  of  all  that  is  NOT  common  to  terms  that  have  something  in 
common,  and  hence  the  greater  the  obstacle  or  hazard  to  their  union,  the  more  exciting  or  affective  the 


16 
apprehension  of  their  union;  or,  the  more  unrelatedness  there  is,  the  more  exciting  the  discovered  related- 
ness  is. "I7   The  most  important  aspect  of  form  is  the  totality  of  its  relations.    Reciprocity,  interdependence 
of  parts  and  the  whole,  characterize  form;  it  further  needs  the  presence  of  hazard  for  interest,  but  hazard 
with  limits . 

Hazard  must  not  be  Henry  Adams'  bewildered  goose  knocking  you  down  from  behind.    It  is  more  like 
Uncle  Len's  Irishman  in  that  it  is  controlled  by  the  larger  purposes  it  serves  to  fulfill.    "The  antecedents 
and  consequents  must  become  mutually  relevant  if  uncertainty  is  to  be  desirable"  (p.  49).    The  viewer's 
mind  finds  the  relations,  experiences  the  desirability  of  hazard,  and  makes  use  of  it;  frustration  that  renders 
it  worthless  must  be  avoided.    According  to  Sister  Mary,  "In  literary  meaning,  the  tightness  of  unity,  which 
seems  cognitively  apprehended  to  be  organic,  is  really  an  'illusion  arising  from. .  .reaction  to  hazard'  "  (p. 
62).    She  continues,  "A  form  is  organic  when  the  fitnesses  underlying  the  unity  are  felt  to  be  triumphs  over 
multiple  and  various  hazards  .    The  receiver'  s  experience  of  the  unity  is  dynamic,  that  is,  he  continues  in- 
creasingly to  discover  coherence  and  to  find  each  fulfillment  an  absolute"  (pp.  62-63). 

The  argument  here  for  hazard's  value  rests  upon  the  belief  that  it  alerts  the  mind  to  contemplation; 
it  aids  form  to  incarnate  value.  By  exercising  the  entire  mind,  we  recognize  practical  aspects  at  the  same 
time  they  are  transformed  and  vested  with  the  superior  life  of  meaning.  That  transcendent  unity  of  meaning 
assures  us  the  composure  toward  which  the  excitement  of  hazard,  controlled  by  form,  has  led  us.  Form  is 
the  All  Powerful,  and  Hazard  is  its  obedient  servant.  It  helps  fulfill  the  grand  design  of  unity  toward  which 
the  minds  of  the  faithful  leap  in  joy.  It  is  the  artist'  s  use  of  form  and  hazard  that  makes  him  the  master  of 
his  complex  fate . 

It  is  not  Sister  Mary's  particular  Christian  God,  always  there  behind  the  scrim  of  her  arguments,  who 
furnishes  the  power  in  Emerson'  s  world;  it  is  rather  that  Emersonian  type  of  the  Eternal  Form  he  called 
Character,  itself  the  "will  built  on  the  reason  of  things"  (W,  X,   102).    But  in  many  ways  Emerson  and  Sister 
Mary  agree .    That  object  will  be  the  more  beautiful  "which  has  more  complexity  controlled  by  the  more 
successful  unity, "  she  says,  concluding  that  "the  more  there  is  that  is  interrelated,  the  more  the  value  of 
beauty  is  occasioned  (p.  92).    Value  increases  by  "a  triumph  of  fragility"  from  "the  almost-too -hazardous  - 
hazards  overcome"  (p.  97).    The  mind  is  enticed  by  two  contending  systems;  it  rushes  to  explore  the  central 
implication  in  opposite  directions,  "while  staying  with  the  particular  which  is  invested  with  value,  since  it 
is  the  occasion  of  contact"  (p.  106).    By  placing  Newton's  law  of  universal  gravity  (the  cosmic  reality)  next 
to  that  of  affective  hazard  (one  of  the  mind'  s  realities),  Sister  Mary  finds  that  the  laws  of  physics  and  of 
psychology  affirm  each  other,  sustaining  the  belief  that  there  is  order  and  structure  to  the  universe.    By 
analogy  to  these  laws,  the  artist  also  creates  form  and  incarnates  value.    When  Emerson  reminded  himself 
that  one  adjusts  efforts  to  obstacles  in  order  to  attain  true  power  (W,  VI,  54),  he  was  echoing  the  aesthetics 
of  control  that  uses  hazard  and  so  adds  toughness  to  the  fibre  of  experience. 

Emerson's  essay  "Fate,"  included  in  the  1860  collection  The  Conduct  of  Life,  states,  "History  is  the 
action  and  reaction  of  these  two,  --Nature  and  Thought;  two  boys  pushing  each  other  on  the  curbstone  of  the 
pavement.    Everything  is  pusher  or  pushed;  and  matter  and  mind  are  in  perpetual  tilt  and  balance"  (W,  V, 
43).    Is  the  idea  here  monotonous,  especially  coming  after  such  exciting  sentences  as  "The  habit  of  snake 
and  spider,  the  snap  of  the  tiger  and  other  leapers  and  bloody  jumpers,  the  crackle  of  the  bones  of  his  prey 
in  the  coil  of  the  anaconda,  --these  are  in  the  system,  and  our  habits  are  like  theirs"  (Ibid. ,  7)? 

Emerson  begins  his  essay  with  a  direct  facing  up  to  the  dangers  of  life.    Some  may  believe,  he  says, 
"in  a  pistareen -Providence"  where  one  asks  and  receives,  but  he  asserts  that  "Nature  is  no  sentimentalist." 
By  being  forced  to  front  such  threats,  readers  are  pleasantly  stirred;  as  with  "the  world  is  rough  and  surly, 
and  will  not  mind  drowning  a  man  or  a  woman. . ."  (Ibid. ,  p.  6)  or  "The  way  of  Providence  is  a  little  rude" 
(Ibid. ,  p.  7).    There  is  no  clutching  to  Marquis  of  Queensbury  rules  here.    By  the  time  we  come  to  those 
silly  boys  on  the  curbstone  then,  do  their  games  of  pushing  and  pulling  seem  too  playful,  too  tame  to  win  our 
approval?    The  great  laws  of  life  have  been  shown  as  dangerous;  here  they  are  balanced  out  in  child'  s  play. 
We  see  too  easily  what  Emerson  is  doing  with  us .    We  have  been  at  this  juncture  in  his  essays  before.    We 
warily  watch  to  see  if  he  will  again  erect  really  interesting  hazards  whose  overcoming  will  aid  his  art,  or 
whether  he  will  now  be  content  to  pat  together  mole  hills ,  though  calling  them  mountains . 

"Fate"  concludes  with  a  call  to  prayer.    "Let  us  build  altars  to  the  Blessed  Unity.  .  .  .    Let  us  build 
altars  to  the  Beautiful  Necessity"  (Ibid.,  48).    What  has  Emerson  pulled  off  here?    We  began  the  essay  by 


17 
distrusting  Necessity;  now  we  are  asked  to  worship  it.    Can  we  be  sure  Necessity  is  God,  not  the  Devil?  Can 
we  trust  that  voice  from  the  pulpit  that  calls  us  to  devotions,  when  it  could  be  the  demonic  that  seeks  to  bind 
us  to  its  will  by  urging  us  to  submit  to  the  Higher  Will?    Henry  Adams  thought  that  optimism  was  for  idiots . 
Perhaps  this  is  the  hazard- -that  if  we  answer  the  call  to  become  Holy  Fools  we  risk  being  no  more  than 
damnedfools . 

Further  hazard  may  lie  buried  in  this  possibility  Emerson  suggests:   because  Necessity  is  the  opposite 
of  Freedom,  its  presence  (and  our  worship  of  it)  assures  us  of  unity  through  polarity,  rather  than  dualism. 
Unity  is  the  prime  value .    Its  eternality  outweighs  concerns  vital  to  us  as  individuals  immersed  in  moments 
of  living.    But  Emerson  is  willing  to  risk  successful  persuasion  by  signaling  the  cost  to  us  of  our  acceptance; 
he  lures  us  to  sacrifice  individual  freedom  for  the  perfection  of  unity,  to  give  up  the  visible  and  immediate 
for  the  intangible  and  remote,  and  lets  us  know  what  we  are  about. 

In  dealing  with  materials  of  the  should  be  as  opposed  to  the  is,  Emerson  acknowledged  that  the  "good 
cause  is  always  on  the  defensive,  the  evil  assailant"  since  vice  can  put  innocent  means  to  its  ends  as  well 
as  innocent  ones  (JMN,  IV,  333;  1834).    But  goodness  has  more  power.    It  is  "concentrating"  while  dullness 
requires  "mountainous  demonstration";  angels  can  be  "molecules"  while  devils  must  be  Titans.   °    It  is  un- 
necessary, therefore,  to  berate.    Such  methods  are  "sickly  &  effeminate,"  he  chided  himself  when  he  once 
found  himself  bad-mouthing  the  state  of  fine  arts  in  America  (JMN,  V,  211;  1836).    Henry  James,  Sr., 
thought  Carlyle's  epistolary  attacks  on  evil  had  the  effect  of  a  "large,  avalanche  -movement, "  as  if  "a  mass 
of  earth  and  rock  and  vegetation  had  detached  itself  and  [come J  bouncing  and  bumping  forward."    In  contrast, 
James  thought  Emerson's  style  "has  often  a  perfect  propriety- -seeming,  in  answer  to  Carlyle's  extrava- 
gances, the  note  of  reason  and  justice. "19    Emerson  indicated  that  he  liked  Thoreau's  "perennial  threaten- 
ing attitude,  just  as  we  like  to  go  under  an  overhanging  precipice, "  but  added  that  threats  that  fail  to 
materialize  cause  disappointments  (L,  III,  75;  1842).    If  Emerson  saw  the  ineffectuality  of  unfulfilled  threats, 
he  also  disliked  the  "goodies"  whose  preaching  "makes  us  very  bad"  (JMN,  VII,  31;  1838)  and  the  dry-as- 
dusts  who  bore  us  with  "firstly,  secondly,  &c."(JMN,  IV,  290;  1834).    Better  to  act  as  the  prophet  who  aban- 
dons himself  to  the  Muse  of  Truth  (JMN,  IV,  428;  1832)  and  who  encourages  us  by  the  inspired  sentence  that 
"tells  its  own  story,  makes  its  own  feet,  creates  its  own  form"  (JMN,  IV,  290). 

To  find  unity,  truth,  and  right  against  all  appearances  justifies  the  prophet-poet  and  proves  the  virtue 
of  his  hearers  (W,  V,  219-220).    Anticipating  the  rebuke  of  some  who  listened  to  his  lecture  on  "Immortal- 
ity" and  who  would  say  he  had  proved  nothing,  he  calmly  asserted,  "I  am  a  better  believer,  and  all  serious 
souls  are  better  believers  in  the  immortality,  than  we  can  give  grounds  for"  (W,  VIII,  346). 

Opening  his  talk  on  "Worship,"  Emerson  indicated  that  some  had  complained  his  earlier  talks  on  Fate, 
Power,  and  Wealth  gave  up  "too  many  cakes  to  Cerberus"  (W,  VI,  201).  When  warned  he  ran  the  "risk  of 
making,  by  excess  of  candor,  the  argument  of  atheism  so  strong"  it  could  not  easily  be  rebuffed,  he  coun- 
tered that  he  did  not  fear  playing  "the  devil'  s  attorney"  (Ibid.).  "I  am  sure  that  a  certain  truth  will  be  said 
through  me,  though  I  should  be  dumb,  or  though  I  should  try  to  say  the  reverse.  Nor  do  I  fear  skepticism 
for  any  good  soul.  A  just  thinker  will  allow  full  swing  to  his  skepticism.  I  dip  my  pen  in  the  blackest  ink, 
because  I  am  not  afraid  of  falling  into  my  ink-pot"  (Ibid.). 

An  extraordinary  way  to  treat  one's  responsibilities  to  truth-saying.    Perhaps  it  is  the  very  audacity 
of  such  a  stance  that  holds  us  to  attention,  in  our  fears  or  perverse  hopes  that  he  may  indeed  fall  into  the 
devil's  pit  and  drown.    Elsewhere,  in  notes  concerning  his  second  course  of  Harvard  lectures,  he  wrote, 
"I  hope  the  ruin  of  no  young  man'  s  soul  will,  here  or  hereafter,  be  charged  to  me  as  having  wasted  his  time 
or  confounded  his  reason"  (W,  XII,  424).    How  delicious  to  be  told  one  is  listening  to  words  that  could  ruin. 

Emerson  means  it  when  he  maintains  he  is  that  practical  man  who  will  use  any  means  to  gain  his  Ideal 
ends.  The  subjects  taken  for  the  essays  on  "The  Tragic"  and  "The  Comic"  were  personally  distasteful  to 
him  but,  as  his  editor  notes,  he  deftly  pulled  such  foreign  materials  "within  the  sphere"  of  his  mind,  confi- 
dent of  his  power  to  use  and  to  control  whatever  raw  materials  hazard  handed  him  by  a  form  that  transcends 
logic .  "We  cannot  prove  our  faith  by  syllogisms, "  he  insists .  "You  cannot  make  a  written  theory  or  dem- 
onstration of  this  as  you  can  an  orrery  of  the  Copernican  astronomy.  It  must  be  sacredly  treated"  (W,  VIII, 
346). 


18 

In  Natural  History  of  Intellect  he  stated  that  he  only  wants  to  know  where  the  two  termini  are --the  be- 
ginning and  the  end.    Logic  of  argument --the  inbetweens  - -is  unimportant  when  compared  to  that  power  that 
arcs  from  earth  to  heaven.    His  method  of  marking  the  ends  of  the  arc  by  leaving  it  to  the  audience's  faith 
to  complete  the  sweep  may  have  resulted  from  his  mind'  s  inability  to  fill  in  gaps  or  to  control  "infinitely 
repellent  particles"  (W,  VIII,  355;  editor's  notes).  Surely  he  would  have  felt  no  chagrin  had  this  flaw  been 
pointed  out  to  him.    His  notion  of  fate  as  a  good  rested  on  the  notion  that  the  conversion  of  one's  limitations 
is  what  brings  power.    Whatever  the  inbetweens --the  logic  of  the  situation  or  those  prosaic  facts  that  serve 
only  to  prove  failure --the  termini  are  what  count,  since  they  prove  victory. 

Emerson  brings  "The  Fortune  of  the  Republic"  to  its  end  in  this  manner .    He  has  stated  he  wishes 
that  will  and  works  were  more  actively  engaged  in  shaping  America's  design;  he  has  indicated  awareness  of 
the  nation's  lack  of  perfection.    He  then  concludes,  "But  I  see  in  all  directions  the  light  breaking"  (W,  XI, 
544).    This,  suddenly,  without  any  preparation  or  logical  transition.    Such  an  ending  can  be  seen  as  feeble; 
one  that  does  not  dare  close  on  a  note  of  despair,  or  even  with  an  equivocal  "maybe  it  will  work  out  all 
right."    However,  Emerson  felt  that  feebleness  comes  from  lack  of  faith,  not  from  insistence  upon  hope. 

"The  Man  of  Letters"  concludes  with:    "Who  would  not,  if  it  could  be  made  certain  that  the  new  morn- 
ing of  universal  liberty  should  rise  on  our  race  by  the  perishing  of  one  generation,  --who  would  not  consent 
to  die?"  (W,  X,  258).    The  sheer  gall  of  this  assertion  forces  total  acceptance  or  rejection;  no  middle 
ground,  no  doubts  are  permitted.    It  presses  a  Kierkegaardian  Either  /Or,  a  conclusive  choice.    As  happens 
again  and  again  in  Emerson's  essays,  we  are  placed  precariously  in  balance  between  two  choices  that  are 
ours  to  make.    But  only  one  is  also  fated--the  choice  for  hope.    "Wherever  there  is  health. .  .there  is  per- 
ception and  power"  (W,  XII,  28).    Emerson  drove,  and  drifted,  with  his  essays  and  lectures  toward  conclu- 
sions that  were  absolutely  affirmative- -self-confident  that  they  placed  one  within  reach  of  the  sacred  sper- 
matic flow  "continually  ejaculating  its  torrent  into  every  artery  and  vein  and  veinlet  of  humanity"  (Ibid.). 
But  they  are  conclusions  that  are  also  calculatedly  inconclusive. 

In  1853  he  wrote  Carlyle  about  his  essay  "Fate:"    "Comfort  yourself--as  you  will--you  will  survive 
the  reading,  --&  will  be  a  sure  proof  that  the  nut  is  not  cracked.    For  when  we  find  out  what  Fate  is,  I  sup- 
pose, the  Sphinx  &  we  are  done  for;  and  Sphinx,  Oedipus,   &  world,  ought,  by  good  rights,  to  roll  down  the 
steep  into  the  sea. "20   This  had  been  Emerson'  s  belief  for  years:   one  must  not  go  all  the  way  into  mystery, 
or  something  vital  would  be  brought  to  its  end.    Whether  or  not  this  is  part  of  what  Bishop  calls  Emerson'  s 
fear  of  "letting  himself  go,  "  Emerson  did  pull  back  from  drawing  the  final  circle  around  the  world.    "The 
man  finishes  his  story, "  he  wrote  in  his  journal  in  1837,  "how  good!  how  final!  He  fills  the  sky.    Lo!  on  the 
other  side  rises  also  a  man  and  draws  a  circle  around  the  circle  which  we  had  just  pronounced  the  outline 
of  the  sphere;  then  already  is  our  first  speaker  not  Man,  but  only  a  first  speaker.    His  only  redress  is 
forthwith  to  draw  a  circle  outside  of  his  antagonist.    And  so  on"  (JMN,  V,  372). 21 

Emerson'  s  stress  on  the  suggestive  and  the  inconclusive  was  not  based  on  fear  that  if  one  ever  said 
all,  the  All  would  be  revealed  as  meaninglessness  .    Sceptics  might  think  the  universe  a  nest  of  boxes  with 
emptiness  in  the  last  one  "JMN,  VIII,  343;  1843),  but  not  Emerson.    He  had  his  doubts  but  they  pertained  to 
man's  habit  of  systematizing  truth.    To  assume  too  much  about  man's  fate,  to  pile  the  systems  too  high, 
was  once  again  to  risk  the  Tower  of  Babel.    "Human  Life  in  Ten  lectures  or  the  Soul  of  man  neatly  done  up 
in  ten  pinboxes  exactly  ten.    I  cannot  help  fearing,  O  accomplished  world  builder!  that  some  one  pin  or  rivet 
may  chance  to  fall  out  of  thine  astrolabe,   &  new  Nature  lack  an  atom,  for  all  thy  Decad"  (L,  II,   179;  1839). 

By  the  avoidance  of  tower -building,  by  sticking  to  one'  s  earthly  balancing  act,  in  the  end  one  would 
leap,  not  climb,  to  heaven.    But  will  there  always  be  arms  ready  to  catch  one,  as  Emerson's  own  prose 
style  catches  up  faithful  readers  on  the  other  side  of  hazard?    Henry  James,  Sr . ,  once  felt  "fear  [come J 
upon  me,  and  trembling,  which  made  all  my  bones  to  shake,  "22  but  he  believed  he  would  come  to  rest  in 
God  at  last.    Kierkegaard,  too,  believed  that  the  Knight  of  True  Faith  could  rest  with  God,  once  he  made 
his  final,  fatal  leap.    Emerson  is  significantly  more  concerned  with  a  continuation  of  balancing,  leaping, 
and  resuming  equilibrium  than  he  is  with  bringing  such  spiritual  gymnastics  to  a  close.    As  long  as  the  mind 
moves,  he  felt  that  the  imagination  is  free.    Herein  lies  a  man'  s  sense  of  control  over  his  destiny.    Once 
his  mind  stops  its  incessant  balancing,  leaping,  rebalancing,  a  man  is  held  quiet  in  the  arms  of  Eternal  Law. 
Perhaps  he  holds  no  doubts  that  that  law  is  the  source  of  goodness  and  that  rest  there  would  be  peaceful,  but 
there  is  more  challenge,  and  pleasure,  to  be  the  man  alive,  alert,  in  motion --and  in  control. 


19 
VIII 

Emerson  knew  that  art  (the  movement  of  the  mind)  was  not  as  effective  as  life  (the  turn  of  eternal 
laws).    He  admitted,  more  than  once,  that  of  all  artists  he  was  less  effective  than  most.    "I  am  a  rocket 
manufacturer,"  he  wrote,  one  whose  words  flashed  across  the  sky,  then  quickly  died  out  (JMN,  VII,  245; 
1839).    But  to  try  at  least  to  write  out  the  laws  was  "a  better  homage  than  universal  silence."2**    Partly  vir- 
ile, in  great  part  womanly,  Emerson  himself  longed  for  the  completeness  of  soul  found  only  in  the  hermaph- 
rodite (JMN,  VIII,  380;  1843).    But  hermaphrodites  turn  up  as  freaks  in  the  Side  Show,  not  in  Center  Ring 
as  stars  on  the  high-wire.    Furthermore,  as  Emerson  knew,  completion- -however  beautiful- -is  stasis.   He 
would  keep  on  proposing  answers,  never  the  answer;  keep  jumping  on  moving  trains,  assured  of  "a  drowsy 
sense  of  being  dragged  easily  somewhere  by  that  locomotive  Destiny  which,  never  seen,  we  yet  know  must 
be  hitched  on  to  the  cars  wherein  we  sit.  .  ."  (L,  II,  463;  1841). 24 

There  is  for  Emerson  the  faith  that  fate  will  sustain  because  it  makes  use  of  hazard  and  form .    It  is 
the  faith  that  somewhere  underneath  one'  s  feet  as  they  move  at  the  edge  of  the  abyss,  there  lies  something, 
somehow,  to  bear  one  up.    Henry  Adams  knew  that  the  flying  buttress  of  the  Aquinian  faith  had  collapsed, 
as  had  the  perfectly  constructed  One-Hoss  Shay  of  Calvinist  doctrine  and  that  pet  of  the  Adams  family,  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.    To  sceptics,  faiths  of  any  ilk  are  "crutches"  to  support  the  lame.    But 
others  point  out  that  they  may  use  their  minds  to  transform  the  destructive  element  of  life  into  the  very 
thing  that  keeps  them  afloat.    If  one  is  a  Romantic  with  a  club-foot  who  does  not  go  gracefully  about  by  land, 
then  take  to  the  Hellespont  and  stay  up;  don' t  drown  like  the  Lord  Jims  of  lost  faith.    If  one  should  fall,  fall 
well  and  expertly,  without  breaking  one's  bones;  do  not  fall  heavily,  mindlessly,  like  brute  matter,  but--as 
Henry  James,  Sr . ,  specifically  suggested2 5 --transform  the  Fall  of  Man  into  an  ascending  spiral  upwards  to 
redemption . 

James  the  elder  also  observed  that  "exuberance  of  muscle  and  pride  and  robustious  joie  de  vivre"  ex- 
pressed by  the  sight  of  the  actor  Edwin  Forrest  who,  emerging  "fresh  and  dripping  from  the  bath,  had  en- 
tered the  room  absolutely  upside  down,  or  by  the  rare  gymnastic  feat  of  throwing  his  heels  into  the  air  and 
walking,  as  with  strides,  on  his  hands.  . .  ."26    Life  is  joyous  to  the  Emersonian  soul-type  since  it  believes 
that,  as  Sister  Mary  Francis  Slattery  points  out,  the  laws  of  gravity  and  the  laws  of  the  creative  intelligence 
are  ultimately  sustained,  not  undermined,  by  the  Lords  of  Life.    Life  is  hazard,  but  hazard  works  for  unity, 
and  all  furthers  faith  in  the  gymnastics  of  fate.    "However,  if  there  is  no  order  in  the  universe,  one  can 
frame  an  amorphous  splash  on  a  canvas,  blindly  affirming  the  'universe'  of  Democritus,  and  then  antici- 
pating a  revelation  from  it  with  impunity.    For  if  there  is  no  system,  there  is  at  least  no  harm  in  waiting 
with  futile  hope  for  the  flesh  to  become  word.  "27 
University  of  Washington 

1  Letters  of  Henry  Adams  (1892-1918),  ed.  Worthington  Chauncey  Ford,  2  vols.  (Boston  and  New  York, 
1930),  II,  424.    The  next  quotation  is  from  I,   174-175. 

2  Roughing  It  (Harper'  s  Modern  Classics:  New  York,   1859),  Part  II,  p.  103. 

3  This  letter  of  1860  is  included  by  Henry  James  in  Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother  (N .  Y . ,   1914),  p .  233;  the 
next  quotation  is  from  p.  234.  4    HA  Letters,  II,  369. 

5  The  Journals  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  Vol.  V  (1835-1838),  ed.  MertonM.  Sealts,  Jr.  (Cambridge, 
Mass . ,   1965);  entry  of  1836,  p.  229.    Hereafter  Emerson'  s  writings  will  be  treated  in  this  manner:  extracts 
from  his  journals,  letters,  and  essays  will  be  coded  JMN,  L,  W.    Volume  and  page  number,  and  the  year  of 
the  journal  or  letter,  will  be  placed  in  parentheses  after  the  quotation.    The  editions  used  are  as  follows: 
the  Harvard  University  Press  edition  of  the  Journals ;  The  Letters  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  Ralph  L. 
Rusk,  6  vols.  (Columbia  University  Press),   1939;  The  Centenary  Edition  of  The  Complete  Works  of  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson,   12  vols  .  (Boston  and  New  York,   1903). 

6  Fear  and  Trembling,  included  in  A  Kierkegaard  Anthology,  ed.  Robert  Bretall  (Princeton,  N.J.,   1947), 
p.  121;  the  following  quotation  is  from  p.  269. 

7  Emerson  on  the  Soul  (Cambridge,  Mass.,   1964),  pp.  171-176. 

8  Ann  Douglas  Wood,   "Reconsiderations,  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,"  The  New  Republic  (January  1  and  8,  1972), 
p.  29.    That  is,  one  may  take  exception  to  placing  the  responsibility  for  such  men  as  Peale  and  Teddy 
Roosevelt  upon  Emerson.    If  Emerson  repudiates  the  Calvinist  notion  that  the  sons  of  Adam  inherit  their 
ancestors'  sins,  one  can  also  deny  the  notion  that  a  "father"  is  responsible  for  the  strange  alterations  made 
in  his  beliefs  once  his  heirs  lay  their  heavy  hands  upon  them.  9   Bishop,  p.  205. 

10   Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother,  p.  183. 


20 

11  See  Emerson's  letter  to  Margaret  Fuller  of  March  14,   1841;  L,  II,  385. 

12  Bretall,  pp.  332,  333.  13    Bishop,  pp.  147ff;    Wood,  p.  27. 

14  "I  hate  circular  sentences,  or  echoing  sentences, "  Emerson  wrote,  "where  the  last  half  cunningly  re- 
peats the  first  half,  but  you  step  from  stone  to  stone,  and  advance  ever."    Correspondence  Between  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson  and  Herman  Grimm,  ed.  Frederick  W.  Ho  lis  (Boston,   1903),  p.  58.    One  must  break  the 
circle,  and  move--truly  move--by  means  of  the  spiral.    Kierkegaard  also  worried  over  proliferation  of 
possibilities  that,  by  increasing  to  uncontrollable  numbers,  become  a  smothering  weight.    In  order  to  keep 
1  +  1=2  (phenomenal)  and  One  (noumenal),  man  must  make  an  either/or  choice  and  not  be  deluded  into 
moving  on  and  on  through  damning  dialectics  that  promise  synthesis  but  only  lead  to  the  horrors  of  geo- 
metric progressions  and  eternal  drift.    See  Bretall,  p.  104;  the  section  from  Either/Or  is  significantly  en- 
titled "Equilibrium  Between  the  Aesthetical  and  the  Ethical  in  the  Composition  of  Personality." 

15  But  Emerson  did  not  plan  to  drop  all  the  links,  since  facts  viewed  alone  could  be  ugly.    "I  read  today  a 
horrid  story  of  murder;  it  fills  one  with  glooms,  bludgeons  &  gibbits:    then  it  turns  out  to  be  a  systematic 
longsought  accurately-measured  revenge:  instantly  the  gloom  clears  up;  for  in  a  degree  the  light  of  law  &  of 
cause  &  effect  shines  in"  (JMN,  VII,  98).  16   Bishop,  pp.  11,   14. 

17  Hazard,   Form,  and  Value  (Detroit,   1971),  pp.  11-12.    Further  quotations  will  be  given  with  parentheses . 

18  The  Correspondence  of  Emerson  and  Carlyle,  ed.  Joseph  Slater  (Columbia  University  Press,   1964),  p. 
342;  18437"      19    Quotedlii  Slater;  first  appeared  in  The  Century  Magazine,  XXV  (June,   1833),  271. 

20   Slater,  p.  485.       21    Bishop  notes  that  "A  circle  turned  substantial  and  confining  is  a  wall"  (p.  55). 
22   Quoted  in  Austin  Warren'  s  The  Elder  Henry  James  (N .  Y. ,   1934),  p.  55.        23    Slater,  p.  373;  1844. 

24  Later-day  propulsion  machines  are  more  harrowing  to  the  imagination.    Henry  James  recorded  in  his 
youth  his  sense  of  clinging  to  a  locomotive  engine  that  rushed  him  violently  into  the  future .    Henry  Adams 
wrote,  "We  are  all  in  the  same  automobile,  and  cannot  jump. . ."  (HA  Letters,  II,  458;  1905).    Buster  Keaton 
in  The  General  loves  his  locomotive,  and  though  it  plunges  him  deep  into  enemy  territory,  he  and  it- -work- 
ing together  in  frantic  yet  controlled  motion- -carry  off  the  day  in  triumph.    Keaton  is  more  an  Emersonian 
Wunderkind  than  the  younger  James  or  Adams  in  this  respect.    When  Emerson  extolled  the  freedom  and  pre- 
cision of  art,  noting  that  Dante  wrote  like  Euclid  (W,  VIII,  72),  he  outlined  the  kind  of  faith  in  movement-as- 
destiny  that  Keaton  so  brilliantly  portrays  in  his  art  of  silence. 

25  See  The  Philosophy  of  Henry  James ,  Sr . ,  by  Frederick  H.  Young  (New  Haven,  1951),  pp.  154,  237,  for 
James'  s  discussion  of  the  sensation  of  falling  felt  by  matter  that  is  powerless  to  go  anywhere  but  down,  and 
the  Fortunate  Fall  that  sends  human  spirits  leaping  toward  redemption. 

26  Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother,  p.  272.  27    Slattery,  pp.  107-108. 

THE  LAW  OF  PERMUTATION-EMERSON'S  MODE  ^  *• 

During  the  period  when  Emerson  transmuted  a  number  of  gathering  convictions  into  journal  entries 
which  soon  became  vital  impulses  in  the  writing  of  Nature,  he  noted:    "The  truest  state  of  mind,  rested  in, 
becomes  false.    Thought  is  the  manna  which  cannot  be  stored.    It  will  be  sour  if  kept,  and  to-morrow  must 
be  gathered  anew.    Perpetually  must  we  East  ourselves,  or  we  get  into  irrecoverable  error."!    The  anal- 
ogy here  leads  to  the  heart  of  Emerson's  concern  in  Nature,  where  he  excoriates  experience,  language, 
poetry,  philosophy  and  religion  at  second  hand,  which  he  images  as  groping  "among  the  dry  bones  of  the 
past."    The  scene  is  perhaps  a  mausoleum,  perhaps  the  valley  of  the  bones,  perhaps  neither.    Whatever  the 
scene,  these  bones  cannot  live.    Perception  is  an  eyeless  skull,  language  a  fossil,  and  man  "a  god  in  ruins." 

A  promising,  if  somewhat  pompous,  beginning.    What  can  Nature  say  after  such  an  introduction?  The 
better  question  is,  "Where  does  it  go?"   As  soon  as  we  stop  reading  Nature  we  have  lost  it,  because  the  es- 
say is  still  going;  the  next  sentence  is  always  Emerson's,  and  there  is  always  a  next  sentence.    And  each 
sentence  and  each  new  image  is  capable  of  creating  its  own  unique  and  deeply  experienceable  world  (which, 
as  soon  as  it  is  defined,  is  already  obsolete).    Where  does  one  begin,  then,  in  talking  about  Emerson? 
Usually  he  does  not  write  in  a  way  we  are  used  to,  nor  does  the  language  convey  meaning  in  the  way  other 
writers  lead  us  to  expect.    If  Cooper,  Hawthorne  and  Twain,  for  instance,  through  their  apparent  straight- 
forwardness, draw  us  rather  directly  into  the  hard  center  of  their  works,  he  will  not  let  us  "get  by"  as 
easily.    "Oh  you  man  without  a  handle!"  was  the  verdict  of  Henry  James  senior.    It  is  not  easier  for  us  than 


21 
it  was  for  him  to  find  a  handle  on  Emerson.    A  sentence  or  paragraph  will  not  do,  nor  his  "favorite"  terms, 
nor  his  journal  comments  about  his  essays.    We  have  some  Emerson  thoughts  in  our  hands,  but  the  thinking, 
the  real  art,  is  somewhere  else.    Furthermore,  whatever  we  grasp  for  as  a  handle  will  give  us  little  idea 
what  came  before  or  after.    We  never  get  from  Emerson  a  systematically  organized  presentation  of  his  phi- 
losophy, if  his  thinking  can  be  called  by  that  name.    "We  forget  in  taking  up  a  contemporary  book,  "  Emerson 
noted,  "that  we  see  the  house  that  is  building  and  not  the  house  that  is  built"  (J,  VI,  97-98).    The  essay  on 
Montaigne  quotes  the  Journals  in  calling  for  a  philosophy  "of  fluxions  and  mobility"  (J,  VII,  61).    In  Free- 
dom and  Fate  Stephen  Whicher  complained  of  Emerson'  s  Nature:    "One  cannot  always  easily  penetrate  its 
rapid  criss-cross  of  ideas  and  see  its  underlying  intention. "2    A  few  years  later  his  appraisal  had  changed, 
and  he  observed:    "What  mattered,  then,  was  not  so  much  truth  as  truth-making,  not  thoughts  but  thinking." 
And  he  added,  "A  failure  to  appreciate  his  method  is  responsible  for  a  number  of  traditional  errors  about 
Emerson.  "^ 

But  I  am  ahead  of  myself.    Such  a  judgment  by  Whicher,  with  which  I  agree,  is  the  end  of  the  argu- 
ment, not  the  beginning.    The  argument  begins  with  a  consideration  of  Emerson'  s  language.    Emerson  would 
be  the  first  to  tell  us  to  look  for  a  fresh  consideration,  but  also,  to  look  out  for  it.    Somehow  the  longer  crit- 
ical studies  purporting  to  analyze  Emerson'  s  language  have  tended  to  slip  into  an  investigation  of  his  ideas, 
where,  for  the  most  part,  they  have  stayed.    There  have  been  few  exceptions.'*    The  irony  in  this  is  con- 
siderable, since  Emerson  habitually  begins  with  philosophic  problems  only  to  insist  on  a  poetic  mode  and 
poetic  solutions.    In  so  doing  he  is  on  the  side  of  Thoreau,  who  remarked  to  Emerson  '"that  philosophers 
are  broken-down  poets';  and  'that  universal  assertions  should  never  allow  any  remarks  of  the  individual  to 
stand  in  their  neighborhood,  for  the  broadest  philosophy  is  narrower  than  the  worst  poetry'  "  (J»  VII,  99). 

Charles  Anderson's  suggestion  that  we  read  Thoreau' s  Walden  as  a  poem  (The  Magic  Circle  of 
'  Walden' )  is  at  least  as  applicable  to  Emerson's  Nature .    What  Emerson  means  by  flowing  philosophy  is 
poetry.    It  demonstrates  the  analogical  working  of  the  mind,  the  on-going  process  of  perception  and  imag- 
ing, the  metaphoric  nature  of  language  and  the  tentativeness  of  every  statement.    It  is,  to  quote  Wallace 
Stevens,  the  work  "of  the  mind  in  the  act  of  finding  /  What  will  suffice."    This  poetic  process  is  self-regulat- 
ing and  self -justifying.    It  keeps  its  distance  from  the  "thin  cold  realm"  of  pure  abstraction  and  resists  the 
critic's  attempts  to  define  the  basic,   "real"  Emerson  of  the  essays.    In  "Uses  of  Great  Men"  Emerson  sug- 
gests that  "the  transmutings  of  the  imagination"  are  one  of  the  "intellectual  feats"  the  reader  witnesses  with 
pleasure  and  benefit  (W,  IV,  16).    "Metamorphosis  is  the  law  of  the  Universe."    It  is  also  the  law  of  the 
artist  and  his  art.    Swedenborg  recognized  the  metamorphosis  of  the  appearance  and  meaning  of  anything  as 
it  passes  to  a  new  observer.    He  failed  to  recognize,  however,  the  inexorable  permutation  of  perception  in 
each  observer.    This  is  so  both  of  images  perceived  and  the  images  reporting  our  perceptions .    Both  are 
"temporary  forms"  (J,  VII,   117).    And,  "Only  poets  advance  with  every  word"  (J,  V,  445). 

There  are  instances  where  Emerson  doubts  his  method.    One  of  these  is  the  admission  in  the  Journals : 
"I  am  too  quick-eyed  and  unstable.    My  thoughts  are  too  short,  as  they  say  my  sentences  are.    I  step  along 
from  stone  to  stone  over  the  Lethe  which  gurgles  around  my  path,  but  the  odds  are  that  my  companion  en- 
counters me  just  as  I  leave  one  stone  and  before  my  foot  has  well  reached  the  other.  .  ."  (V,  355).    There 
may  be  as  much  imperious  modesty  in  these  words  as  an  artist's  self-doubt.    Whatever  the  case,  he  re- 
minds himself  that  the  "poetic  eye  sees  in  Man  the  Brother  of  the  River,  and  in  Woman  the  Sister  of  the 
River.    Their  life  is  always  transition. . . .    Heroes  do  not  fix,  but  flow,  bend  forward  ever  and  invent  a  re- 
source for  every  moment"  (J,  V,   494-495).   This,  Emerson  sensed  on  his  lecture  tours,  is  not  what  many 
of  the  lyceum  audience  expected  of  him  or  his  art.    The  life  and  truth  of  an  essay,  according  to  them,  de- 
pended on  a  perfect  imitation  of  nature,  either  the  world  of  their  horizons,  which  they  saw  as  fixed,  or  the 
world  of  their  hopes,  which  they  expected  to  be  defined  and  ushered  in  as  the  new,  unchanging  order: 
"People  came,  it  seems,  to  my  lectures  with  expectation  that  I  was  to  realize  the  Republic  I  described,  and 
ceased  to  come  when  they  found  this  reality  no  nearer .    They  mistook  me .    I  am  and  always  was  a  painter .... 
I  count  this  distinct  vocation  which  never  leaves  me  in  doubt  what  to  do,  but  in  all  times,  places,  and  for- 
tunes gives  me  an  open  future,  to  be  the  great  felicity  of  my  lot"  (J,  VI,  470-471). 

Reading  Emerson,  we  should  always  be  aware  of  the  need  for  fresh  consideration  and  of  what  the  art 
can  give  us,  if  we  read  it  fully  enough.  That  should  be  the  main  expectation.  Despite  the  fact  that  Nature 
was  written  almost  a  century  and  a  half  ago,  it  is  new  to  us,  and  disturbing  in  its  freedom  of  presentation . 
It  is  free  in  two  ways:    from  the  backwash  of  traditional  metaphoric  material,  and  from  the  traditional  process 


22 

of  developing  that  material.    The  latter,  the  Emersonian  mode,  will  be  explored  more  closely  in  the  rest 
of  this  essay.    Emerson  calls  his  mode  by  many  names,  including  metamorphosis,  mutation,  transmuta- 
tions, flowing  law,  the  active  soul,  and  above  all,  poetry.    Nature  will  be  the  starting  point  in  the  analysis  . 
The  relation  in  which  the  chapters  stand  to  each  other  is  pretty  much  the  relation  of  images  to  each  other 
within  the  chapter.    The  kind  of  permutation  at  work  in  the  essay  is  the  most  surprising  and  idiosyncrat- 
ically  Emersonian  aspect  of  the  language,  and  is  consonant  with  the  argument  generated  by  the  essay.   The 
third  section  of  my  discussion  looks  first  to  Emerson'  s  Journals  to  trace  his  comments  on  his  mode  as 
writer  from  the  time  Nature  was  being  composed  through  those  years  when,  according  to  virtually  every 
critical  analysis  of  Emerson,  he  underwent  a  significant  shift  in  belief  and  method.    This  section  concludes 
with  a  brief  discussion  of  Natural  History  of  Intellect,  in  the  interest  of  reminding  the  reader  of  Emerson 
that  Emerson's  mode,  both  in  principle  and  practice,  did  not  essentially  change  throughout  his  career  as 
writer . 

II 

"The  metamorphosis  of  Nature  shows  itself  in  nothing  more  than  this,  "  notes  a  journal  entry,  "that 
there  is  no  word  in  our  language  that  cannot  become  typical  to  us  of  Nature  by  giving  it  emphasis  .    The 
world  is  a  Dancer;  it  is  a  Rosary;  it  is  a  Torrent;  it  is  a  Boat;  a  Mist;  a  Spider'  s  Snare;  it  is  what  you  will; 
and  the  metaphor  will  hold,  and  it  will  give  the  imagination  keen  pleasure.    Swifter  than  light  the  world  con- 
verts itself  into  that  thing  you  name,  and  all  things  find  their  right  place  under  this  new  and  capricious 
classification"  (J,  VI,   18).    A  similar  pronouncement  opens  the  "Commodity"  chapter  of  Nature:    "WHO- 
EVER considers  the  final  cause  of  the  world  will  discern  a  multitude  of  uses  that  enter  as  parts  into  the  re- 
sult.   They  all  admit  of  being  thrown  into  one  of  the  following  classes:    Commodity;  Beauty;  Language;  and 
Discipline."    These  "classes,"  one  discovers,  are  not  to  be  regarded  as  categories  logically  determined; 
nor  do  they  represent  an  exhaustive  inventory.    They  are,  simply,  large  metaphors  concentrating  for  con- 
venience and  poetic  clarification  ("it  is  what  you  will")  the  "multitude  of  uses  that  enter  as  parts"  into  the 
"final  cause  of  the  world."    Each  of  the  four  chapters  comprises  a  sweeping  metaphoric  act;  each  is  another 
poetic  act  and  hence  a  poetic  advance.    The  first  two  sentences  of  "Commodity,"  then,  are  not  indisputable 
statements  nor  logical  propositions  any  more  than  the  opening  statements  of  a  poem  are.    Nor  is  the  se- 
quence and  relationship  absolute  any  more  than  the  stanzas  of  a  poem .    The  chapters  are  acts  which  suffice 
in  their  own  way.    The  relation  of  one  to  the  other  cannot  be  accounted  for  by  Aristotelian  logic,  nor  the 
kind  of  dialectic  operating  in  Plato'  s  Symposium  (although  this  model  is  more  useful  than  Aristotle).    Nor 
will  modern  dialectical  theories  do  .    William  T.  Harris'  s  Hegelian  explication  of  Nature,  still  one  of  the 
most  instructive,  is  impressive  but  finally  unpersuasive.^    In  his  dialectical  scheme  he  misses  the  point 
which  is  actually  his,  or  almost  his --the  continual  permutation  of  figures  in  Nature.    It  is  Emerson,  in 
Nature,  who  reminds  his  readers  that  his  method  is  an  accounting  "by  other  principles  than  those  of  car- 
pentry and  chemistry." 

The  "metaphor  will  hold,  and  it  will  give  the  imagination  keen  pleasure,  "  the  Journals  declare.    Yet 
how  can  such  an  arbitrary  metaphorizing-- Emerson  admits  that  as  "classification"  it  is  "capricious" -- 
work  reliably,  or  to  use  his  term,  how  will  it  "hold"?    It  holds  because  at  the  moment  the  metaphor  is  in- 
vented it  is  a  true  naming  of  the  world.    It  is  true  because  it  succeeds  in  concentrating  the  multifariousness 
of  the  scene  in  a  large  image,  thus  organizing  and  interpreting  the  many  parts  it  reports  both  according  to 
nature  and  relationship.    In  short,  it  holds  because  it  works,  and  it  works  because,  for  the  moment,  the 
mind  has  invented  and  admitted  into  the  growing  text  another  metaphor  that  will  suffice.    And  each  meta- 
phor is  "a  new  weapon  in  the  magazine  of  power." 

According  to  Emerson  the  strategy  is  or  should  be  common  to  all  art.    He  explains  his  view  in  "Beauty, 
in  one  of  the  notable  statements  in  Nature  concerning  his  own  method:    "The  poet,  the  painter,  the  sculptor, 
the  musician,  the  architect,  seek  each  to  concentrate  this  radiance  of  the  world  on  one  point."    This  point 
is  repeatedly  being  found,  then  established  as  a  centering,  only  to  be  relocated,  that  is,  superseded  by 
another  point  which  in  its  new  way  will  "concentrate  this  radiance."    Each  chapter,  then,  is  another  major 
poetic  act,  providing  a  center  of  intersection  for  numerous  lines,  to  that  extent  simplifying  them  and  creat- 
ing the  illusion  that  the  metamorphosis  has  been  stalled.    The  world  is  held  at  a  particular  kind  of  attention 
by  the  metaphor.    Each  chapter,  however,  is  as  susceptible  to  the  next  version  as  nature  and  mind  are. 

"Understanding"  and  "Reason"  and  the  distinction  Emerson  makes  between  them  need  to  be  under- 
stood in  this  context.    To  explain  them  in  terms  of  the  Coleridgean  source  or  the  post-Kantian  distinction 


23 
between  consciousness  and  the  object  of  consciousness  blurs  Emerson's  unique  and  particular  version. 
Understanding  admits  and  works  in  the  midst  of  the  "radiance  of  the  world:"  "Our  dealing  with  sensible  ob- 
jects is  a  constant  exercise  in  the  necessary  lessons  of  difference,  of  likeness,  of  order,  of  being  and 
seeming,  of  progressive  arrangement;  of  ascent  from  particular  to  general;  of  combination  to  one  end  of 
manifold  forces."   Through  her  many  stimuli  nature  tutors  us  in  this  common  sense.    The  true  combina- 
tion to  one  end,  however,  is  a  "moral"  action  he  calls  "Reason:"    the  poetic  acts  of  centering  the  multi- 
plicity according  to  man  (which  makes  them  moral).    Each  act  both  concentrates  the  multifariousness  and 
reconciles  it  to  man.    The  "world's  contracted  thus,"  to  quote  John  Donne.    Such  a  combination,  the  "unity 
in  variety"  which  illustrates  truth  to  man,  is  not  achieved  through  "addition  or  subtraction"  but  by  "untaught 
sallies  of  the  spirit."    The  order  of  metaphoric  acts  in  a  man's  art  constitutes  his  real  natural  history,  and 
the  "best  read  naturalist  who  lends  an  entire  and  devout  attention  to  truth"  will  be  the  best  poet.    "He  will 
perceive  that  there  are  far  more  excellent  qualities  in  the  student  than  preciseness  and  infallibility.  .  .and 
that  a  dream  may  let  us  deeper  into  the  secret  of  nature  than  a  hundred  concerted  experiments ." 

And  so  the  "multitude  of  uses"  of  nature,  brought  into  the  radius  of  attention  by  the  question  "to  what 
end  is  nature, "  is  organized  and  unified  by  each  new  chapter.    This  capacity  to  concentrate  radiance  on  one 
point  makes  idealists  of  us  all,  declares  Emerson.    Not  a  Plato  or  Berkeley;  simply  a  poet  who  unceasingly 
makes  his  world  even  as  he  is  finding  it.    Emerson's  clearest  definition  of  idealism  is  the  poetic  process 
of  Nature . 

There  is,  of  course,  a  "noble  doubt"  in  Nature  which  exfloriates  to  the  point  where  "the  heart  resists 
it."    The  problem  is  inevitable:    the  fear  of  being  imprisoned  "in  the  splendid  labyrinth"  of  the  mind's  per- 
ceptions and  metaphors,  condemned  "to  wander  without  end."    It  is  Wallace  Stevens's  problem,  too,  and 
Stevens '  s  answer  does  not  go  far  enough  for  Emerson .    Ultimately  Stevens  renounces  everything  except  the 
metaphoric  act,  which  justifies  itself  and  its  primacy.    The  poet  wanders  to  an  end,  then  starts  toward 
another.    Although  disturbed  by  the  discontinuity,  he  accepts  it.    Moreover,  he  asks  for  a  humility  that  will 
insist  on  the  primacy  of  the  metaphor  and  not  the  self,  the  supreme  fiction  over  the  ego.    Emerson,  like 
Browning,  sanctifies  the  splendid  labyrinth  with  his  belief  in  immanence,  the  view  "that  he  was  God  when 
his  vital  consciousness  acted."0    Psychologically  stated,  Emerson,  like  Stevens,  seeks  to  reach  a  point  of 
no  return,  an  event  in  world  and  imagination  that  touches  both  at  once  and  alike,  an  event  which  is  true,  is 
unquestioned,  and  cannot  recur,  an  event  which  Stevens  depersonalizes  and  Emerson,  on  the  contrary,  re- 
gards as  evidence  of  God  within.    (I  hasten  to  add  that  in  this  respect  Emerson'  s  late  essays  are  a  half- 
way house  to  Stevens  . ) 

The  "end"  of  the  action  in  Nature,  to  summarize,  is  each  new  sally  of  the  spirit,  each  point  of  con- 
centration and  its  concomitant  "self-recovery ."    Like  the  poetic  event,  the  self-recovery  is  not  a  recur- 
rence.   Each  time  the  world  is  "re-formed"  the  self  is  recovered  in  a  new  version.    It,  too,  participates 
in  the  transformations,  as  the  concluding  paragraphs  of  "Prospects"  make  clear.    At  this  point  "Prospects" 
appeals  for  "humility:"  the  arrogant  are  consistent,  the  dogmatist  is  proud.    Prospectiveness  is  contingent 
on  humility,  on  the  easy  capacity  to  abandon  moorages .    Those  whose  anchorage  is  "indisputable  affirma- 
tion" have  no  further  "Prospects." 

What  has  been  argued  thus  far  might  suggest,  at  least  structurally  speaking,  total  discontinuity  in 
Nature .    In  a  sense  the  permutations  chart  a  direction .    Critics  as  early  as  the  late  nineteenth  century  have 
recognized  a  development  that  in  a  manner  of  speaking  is  evolutionary.    What  needs  to  be  underscored  as  a 
qualifier  is  that  there  is  in  Nature  no  inevitable  evolution  of  a  single  species  or  argument.    Granted,  the 
chapters  become  increasingly  complex  in  their  capacity  as  metaphoric  acts.    But,  to  quote  Sherman  Paul, 
"The  meaning  of  nature. .  .was  its  use. "7    All  the  uses  discussed  are  versions  of  metaphoric  acts  .    The 
only  order  possible  in  Nature  is  the  unfolding  of  progressively  more  complex  uses .    And  since  even  nature 
as  "Commodity"  (and  certainly  the  uses  discussed  in  succeeding  chapters)  accommodates  what  Emerson 
describes  as  spiritual  needs,  the  only  norms  of  development  are  the  chapters  themselves  .    There  are  no 
rules  to  guide  Emerson  or  the  reader  in  the  application  of  the  spiritual  scale.    This  can  be  done  only  when 
need  and  use  meet,  the  latter  accommodating  the  former  and  creating  the  expectation  that  a  greater  need 
will  be  met  by  an  adequately  greater  use .    The  chapters  are  not  isolated  presences ,  the  fragments  of  The 
Waste  Land  searching  unsuccessfully  for  their  unity.    On  the  other  hand,  they  are  not  stages  of  argument 
which  build  one  on  the  other.    Rather,  they  are  states  of  consciousness,  each  one  organizing  itself  accord- 
ing to  its  own  life  (some  of  which  it  shares  with  previous  acts  of  metaphorizing)  and  proceeding  to  its  own 


24 
poetic  shape.    The  use  it  elaborates  and  enacts  creates  by  its  complete  and  completed  presence  the  space 
for  the  next.    This  next  version  surpasses  the  former  in  the  sense  that  it  goes  beyond  it  in  terms  of  evi- 
dence admitted  and  pattern  generated.    This,  it  appears,  is  the  recognition  behind  Sherman  Paul's  vague 
yet  extremely  suggestive  characterization  of  Nature:    "something  of  a  prose  rhapsody. "8 

I  suggested  earlier  that  the  nature  of  the  chapter  as  metaphor  is  akin  to  the  nature  of  the  image  in  the 
sentence  and  that  the  relation  of  chapters  to  each  other  is  essentially  that  of  the  images  to  each  other  with- 
in the  chapters.    Emerson  uses  "metaphor"  to  describe  image,  sentence,  chapter,  and  essay.    One  can  in- 
fer, then,  that  the  chapter  as  metaphor  is  the  elaboration  and  concentrating  of  many  smaller  metaphors, 
raising  them  to  the  level  of  argument  without  becoming  less  figurative.    The  images  in  the  chapter  repre- 
sent the  vital  action  of  consciousness;  the  poetic  acts  authorize  themselves  even  as  they  are  generated  by 
previous  acts.    Such  an  art  is  entirely  open-ended,  and  its  suggestiveness  is  interminable.    Syntactical 
and  rhythmic  units  are  normally  legitimatized  by  images  and  vice  versa .    A  new  image  or  modification  of 
the  image  requires  another  cadence,  clause  or  sentence.    The  paragraph  is  built  on  image  after  image. 
When  it  turns  on  one  main  image,  it  reads  like  a  long  sentence  which  will  not  rest  until  the  image  has  re- 
vised everything  that  preceded  it  and  establishes  its  own  organization  for  experience,  thought,  and  language. 
With  due  respect  for  individual  differences,  this  is  essentially  the  art  of  Thoreau,  Melville,  Whitman, 
Faulkner,  Hart  Crane,  Stevens,  Bellow  (particularly  in  Herzog),  John  Hawkes,  the  later  Roethke  and  Archie 
Ammons  (and  less  consistently  and  consciously,  William  Stafford,  James  Wright  and  Howard  McCord).9 
The  method  is  best  described  by  Emerson  himself  in  an  early  essay:    "Its  permanence  is  a  perpetual  incho- 
ation .    Every  natural  fact  is  an  emanation  and  that  from  which  it  emanates  is  an  emanation  also ,  and  from 
every  emanation  is  a  new  emanation.    If  anything  could  stand  still,  it  would  be  crushed  and  dissipated  by 
the  torrent  it  resisted,  and  if  it  were  a  mind,  would  be  crazed;  as  insane  persons  are  those  who  hold  fast 
to  one  thought  and  do  not  flow  with  the  course  of  nature.  .  . .    Like  an  odor  of  incense,  like  a  strain  of  music, 
like  a  sleep,  it  is  inexact  and  boundless .    It  will  not  be  dissected,  nor  unravelled,  nor  shown"  (W,  I,   199- 
200).    Melville's  and  Faulkner's  psychopaths  are  the  antithesis  of  Emerson's  poet  (despite  the  custom  of 
literary  historians  to  transplant  Emerson's  soul  into  Captain  Ahab).    Quentin  Compson,  ironically,  chooses 
the  river  as  his  final  refuge  from  the  world  of  ceaseless  flux  and  change,  and  Captain  Ahab's  "iron-railed" 
pursuit  leaves  a  shoreless  ocean  in  its  wake. 

To  chart  Emerson's  mode  throughout  Nature  requires  considerably  more  space  than  is  available  here. 
Instead  I  will  simply  note  and  characterize  it  in  several  of  the  chapters  .    The  "Introduction"  opens  with  the 
image  of  building  (building  mausoleums)  as  a  way  of  sidling  up  to  the  matter  of  retrospective  vision.    This 
negative  image  is  followed  by  several  quite  different  yet  also  negative  images,  that  of  seeing  (at  second 
hand),  groping  among  bones  (scavengers  of  that  which  is  dead)  and  dressing  inappropriately  (in  the  fore- 
fathers' wardrobe).    From  here  we  shift  to  the  cattle  to  be  attended  to  and  soil  to  be  cultivated.    The  sheep 
need  shearing,  the  flax  needs  to  be  cut  and  more  land  should  be  worked.    The  sun  is  shining  and  the  time  is 
right;  what  are  we  waiting  for?    Retrospection  is  each  of  the  negative  images,  but  not  the  sum  of  them. 
Each  is  a  new  authorization;  each  is  its  own  version.    And  the  antithesis  of  these  images  is  by  no  means 
the  logical  opposite.    To  get  out  and  work  the  farm  counters  the  groping  among  bones  in  a  way  that  can  only 
partially  be  explained.    Rhetorically  the  paragraph  shifts  as  do  the  images,  between  statement,  question, 
ringing  declaration  and  exhortation.    The  issue  is  being  developed  and  resolved  poetically.    The  second 
paragraph  is  aware  of  this .    Its  title  could  well  be  the  line  from  Frost'  s  "Mowing":    "The  fact  is  the  sweet- 
est truth  that  labor  knows."    Poetic  fact,  that  is. 

The  interest  throughout  Chapter  I  is  the  poetic  fact,  the  "kindred  impression"  and  "integrity  of  im- 
pression" made  by  "natural  objects, "  the  sun  shining  "into  the  eye  and  heart  of  the  child."    Primarily  the 
interest  is  in  how  the  fact  comes  to  be,  how  the  act  of  consciousness  finds  itself  hinging  on  an  image  and 
how  the  imaging,  each  time  it  happens,  "is  the  suggestion  of  an  occult  relation  between  man  and  the  vege- 
table" so  that  "I  am  not  alone  and  unacknowledged."    Here  is  the  most  basic  use  of  nature.    "Not  the  sun 
or  the  summer  alone,  but  every  hour  and  season  yields  its  tribute  of  delight;  for  every  hour  and  change 
corresponds  to  and  authorizes  a  different  state  of  the  mind,  from  breathless  noon  to  grimmest  midnight." 
The  incipience  of  consciousness  is  always  the  naked,  elementary,  yet  profound  contact  between  mind  and 
things .    The  image  does  not  report  the  thing,  but  the  thing  contacted,  the  thing  become  a  "connate"  fact. 
Just  when  and  how  any  such  act  occurs,  and  what  relation  one  act  has  to  another,  cannot  be  specified.    "We 
cannot  write  the  order  of  the  variable  winds,  "  Emerson  notes  elsewhere.    But  Chapter  I  is  not  as  expository 
as  one  might  tend  to  infer  from  this  paragraph.    The  argument  is  in  the  imaging  itself,  from  the  solitary 


25 
looking  at  the  stars  to  crossing  the  bare  common.    One  of  the  images  on  the  way,  that  of  claiming  the  hori- 
zon, deserves  special  attention.    The  image  suggests  a  perpetual  freedom  and  ranging.    Such  a  seeing  can- 
not be  limited.    After  all,  where  does  the  horizon  end? 

The  "bare  common"  passage  has  been  discussed  at  length  by  Jonathan  Bishop.  10   What  immediately 
follows  it,  however,  he  discounts  as  unsuccessful  and  unimportant  writing.    The  importance  of  the  sentence 
beginning  with  "Crossing  a  bare  common"  is,  as  Bishop  explains,  its  unostentatious  reporting  (through  the 
enactment  of  poetic  language)  of  the  naked  contact  between  speaker  and  environment.    The  inventory  of  this 
moment,  however,  comes  after  Bishop' s  favorite  passage.    Instead  of  explicating  philosophically,  the 
speaker  proceeds  through  a  series  of  images,  each  ostensibly  explaining  the  unusual  moment  on  the  bare 
common  even  as  it  transforms  the  moment  into  another  version:    the  snake  casts  off  his  slough,  the  man  is 
reborn  as  a  child,  the  woods  have  become  the  "plantations  of  God"  in  which  the  guest  is  exhilarated  by  the 
"perennial  festival"  etc.    Finally  comes  the  "transparent  eyeball"  passage,  which  Bishop  regards  as  Emer- 
son at  his  worst,  because  of  the  two  words,  "transparent  eyeball."   The  image  is  only  a  brief  gesture.    If 
the  reader  does  not  permit  himself  to  be  stalled  by  it  (enraptured  or  halted  by  annoyance),  he  will  notice 
something  of  greater  significance  here--the  resonance  of  imaging  and  rhythm.    The  passage  is  a  single  sen- 
tence of  many  parts,  one  subsumed  by  the  next,  one  cadence  shading  into  the  next.    The  expansiveness  and 
urgency  of  the  clause  upon  clause  progression  is  the  kind  of  movement  one  will  find  in  virtually  every  Emer- 
son essay  and  which  he  calls  for  repeatedly.    This,  to  him,  is  the  poet  at  work.    We  feel  the  power,  the 
command  of  words  as  they  produce  more  words,  building  up  to  a  tone  and  conviction  which  someone  reading 
an  attempted  paraphrase  of  the  passage  will  not  suspect  to  be  there.    When  Emerson  asked  for  "initiative, 
spermatic,  prophesying,  man -making  words"  (J,  VI,   133),  he  meant  words  like  these.    Several  times  in 
the  Journals  he  distinguishes  between  two  kinds  of  perception  and  art:   prismatic  and  spermatic . 

"Commodity"  demonstrates  how  the  poeticizing  of  the  first  chapter  manifests  itself  in  the  most  ordin- 
ary use  of  nature  (Emerson  describes  it  as  "low"  yet  "perfect  in  its  kind").    At  the  outset  of  the  chapter  the 
position  of  man  is  stationary- -he  is  the  richly  domiciled  squire,  about  whom  nature  scurries  in  obedient 
service  and  entertainment:    '"  More  servants  wait  on  man  /  Than  he'  11  take  notice  of. '  "    Nature  is  in  mo- 
tion, a  pageant  of  perpetual  transformation.    The  second  paragraph  does  not  seek  a  cumulative  account  of 
nature's  appearances  to  man.    The  language  depends  on  the  reader's  willingness  to  follow  the  metamor- 
phosis in  the  images  as  readily  as  he  does  out  in  the  field.    "The  field  is  at  once  his  floor,  his  work-yard, 
his  playground,  his  garden,  and  his  bed."    Emerson's  examples  all  report  incessant  motion  and  change. 
He  summarizes  the  action  with  an  appropriate  image- -the  "endless  circulations  of  the  divine  charity." 

The  shift  in  the  latter  part  of  "Commodity"  looks  forward  to  similar  shifts  in  the  next  three  chapters . 
Now  it  is  man'  s  motion  that  counts .    When  Emerson  writes,  "He  no  longer  waits  for  favoring  gales,  "  he 
has  chosen  his  verb  carefully.    The  rest  of  the  chapter  describes  man  who  refuses  to  wait  and  be  waited 
upon.    His  response  to  the  wind  blowing  from  different  directions  at  various  times  is  to  bag  the  winds,  turn- 
ing all  moments  and  all  directions  into  one.    He  "carries  the  two  and  thirty  winds  in  the  boiler  of  his  boat." 
Each  time  he  does  this  (it  is  done  endlessly;  the  versions  are  never  quite  the  same)  he  changes  "the  face  of 
the  world."    This  action,  described  in  Chapter  IV  as  metaphor  and  in  Chapter  V  as  Reason,  is  what  Emer- 
son as  writer  achieves  chapter  by  chapter  in  Nature .     The  lesson  is  learned,  however,  in  every  moment  of 
consciousness  as  the  things  so  generously  provided  by  nature  are  turned  into  images,  into  things  according 
to  the  mind  and  appropriated  by  it.    "A  man  is  fed,  not  that  he  may  be  fed,  but  that  he  may  work." 

"Beauty"  opens  to  the  panorama  of  the  constantly  changing  scene  and  the  delight  it  affords .    Virtually 
"all  the  individual  forms  are  agreeable  to  the  eye."    "The  long  slender  bars  of  cloud  float  like  fishes  in  the 
sea  of  crimson  Light.    From  the  earth,  as  a  shore,  I  look  out  into  that  silent  sea .    I  seem  to  partake  of  its 
rapid  transformations;.  .  .1  dilate  and  conspire  with  the  morning  wind."    The  pun  on  "conspire"  nicely  sum- 
marizes the  doubleness  of  the  response.    The  speaker  contacts  and  knows  (breathes  with)  the  scene;  simul- 
taneously he  is  conspiring  to  concentrate  its  radiance  on  a  single  point.    This  is  precisely  the  action  of  the 
singer  in  Stevens'  "The  Idea  of  Order  at  Key  West. "    The  rest  of  "Beauty"  is  concerned  with  conspiring  in 
the  latter  sense.    "The  heavens  change  every  moment"  and  the  "shows  of  day"  which  appear  only  to  vanish 
are  phantom  forms  to  the  conspiring  mind.    A  world  of  permutation  is  unreal,  that  is,  insubstantial,  un- 
less and  until  it  is  responded  to  by  "natural  action,"  the  beauty  of  the  deed.    "We  are  taught  by  great  actions 
that  the  universe  is  the  property  of  every  individual  in  it"  and  not  just  a  parade  of  phantoms  (italics  mine). 
The  action  isn'  t  exactly  the  bagging  of  two  and  thirty  winds;  however,  it  is  in  the  transforming  world  that 


26 
man  must  act- -in  the  "winds  and  waves ."    '"The  winds  and  waves,'  said  Gibbon,   'are  always  on  the  side  of 
the  ablest  navigators,  '  "  (as  they  are  in  W.  C .  Williams'  s  "The  Yachts").    "So  are  the  sun  and  moon  and 
all  the  stars  of  heaven."    The  beauty  of  the  noble  act  is  in  navigating  well,  in  drawing  maps,  charting  points 
and  determining  direction.    Each  plotting  of  a  position  and  navigational  action  is  subsumed  by  the  next. 
Therein  lies  the  real  beauty- -the  changing  scene  of  action- -for  only  as  the  heroic  action  participates  in  the 
"rapid  transformations"  of  the  scene  is  it  beautiful  and  poetic  according  to  Emerson.    Finally,  in  this  chap- 
ter, Emerson  turns  to  the  beauty  of  thought,  which  depends  on  "the  plastic  power  of  the  human  eye."    The 
"beauty  of  nature"  continually  "re-forms  itself  in  the  mind."    There  is  no  fixation,  only  permutation.    Even 
the  process  of  re-forming  is  not  an  end  in  itself.    The  end  is  always  "new  creation, "  Emerson'  s  definition 
of  art  in  this  chapter,  of  language  in  the  next,  and  of  poetry  in  "Prospects  . " 

Plato  was  right  then:    '"  Poetry  comes  nearer  to  vital  truth  than  history. '  "    Emerson  can  invoke  the 
statement  in  "Prospects"  without  borrowing  a  philosophy.    Even  Plato  undergoes  metamorphosis,  for  here 
he  witnesses  to,  indeed  introduces,   Emerson's  summary  reminder:    "Every  surmise  and  vaticination  of 
the  mind  is  entitled  to  a  certain  respect,  and  we  learn  to  prefer  imperfect  theories,  and  sentences  which 
contain  glimpses  of  truth,  to  digested  systems  which  have  no  one  valuable  suggestion."    At  this  point  both 
Plato  and  the  poet -philosopher  of  Nature  step  aside  to  admit  the  "Orphic  poet, "  who  may  or  may  not  repeat 
some  of  Bronson  Alcott'  s  sentiments,  but  who  full  of  ardor  and  prophecy  raises  the  discourse  to  a  rhap- 
sodic pitch.    The  change  of  speaker  notwithstanding,  the  mode  is  still  Emersonian.    He  speaks  four  stanzas 
or  paragraphs,  each  another  attempt  to  concentrate  the  multiplicity  of  suggestion  and  exhortation  in  one 
major  point.    Each,  in  short,  behaves  like  the  chapters  of  Nature.    And  within  each  stanza  is  a  permuta- 
tion of  images  akin  to  that  within  the  chapter.    The  distinctiveness  of  the  Orphic  poet  is  the  apocalyptic 
quality  of  his  voice,  as  he  seeks  to  compel  the  reader,  through  the  sheer  power  of  his  anthem,  to  have  the 
same  mind,  the  same  kind  of  being,  as  the  orphic  poet.    This  messianic  voice  is  rarely  again  heard  in 
Emerson'  s  work,  and  is  one  of  the  important  features  to  distinguish  Nature  from  volumes  such  as  Uses  of 
Great  Men,  Conduct  of  Life,  Society  and  Solitude,  and  Natural  History  of  Intellect .    The  poem  "Uriel"  un- 
doubtedly helps  to  explain  why  the  Orphic  poet  (but  not  the  poet)  is  absent  from  later  essays  . 

Significantly,  however,  even  in  darker  and  more  labored  essays  like  "Fate,"  the  Emersonian  mode  I 
have  been  describing  is  still  very  much  in  evidence.    One  of  the  liabilities  of  the  criticism  which  stresses 
Emerson'  s  change  of  faith  and  temperament  is  to  cause  us  to  forget  this .    If  the  "God  in  me"  is  dying,  or 
has  grown  more  deliberate,  moderate  and  gentlemanly  in  his  behavior,  we  need  to  remember  that  he  does 
not  insist  that  Emerson  change  his  method.    Stevens,  as  I  indicated  earlier,  works  essentially  in  Emerson's 
mode.    For  him  God  is  dead  and  perhaps  never  existed.    Much  of  what  Hillis  Miller  argues  about  Stevens  in 
his  essay  "Wallace  Stevens'  Poetry  of  Being"H  is  also  applicable  to  Emerson.    The  mode  is  surprisingly 
similar  whether  God  is  within  or  is  dead  and  forever  gone.    The  precarious  balance  between  continuity  and 
discontinuity  in  consciousness  and  art  is  a  tough  concession  for  Stevens,  and  is  at  the  heart  of  his  rage  for 
order.    For  Emerson,  especially  in  the  early  work,  it  is  the  confirmation  of  infinite  possibilities.    In  the 
words  of  "Language,  "  the  poetic  acts  are  a  sign  that  "the  spells  of  persuasion,  the  keys  of  power  are  put 
into  his  hands . " 

III 

Emerson's  Journals  are,  among  other  things,  a  jogging  reminder  of  his  mode .    Heraclitus'  doctrine 
that  one  cannot  twice  bathe  in  the  same  river  is  extended  by  the  recognition,  frequently  reiterated,  that  a 
man  never  sees  the  same  object  twice,  since  each  time  it  is  perceived  it  acquires  new  aspects.    As  it 
changes,  so  does  the  perceiver .    Language  is  the  linguistic  incarnation  of  this  process  .    It  unnames  even 
as  it  names  and  proceeds  on  its  way  even  as  it  holds .    As  a  reporter  of  the  mind'  s  contacting  its  world, 
language  is  an  exploration  in  which  the  edge  of  order  is  also  the  edge  of  disorder.    There  is  only  one  im- 
mutable realm--the  conjunction  of  ME  and  NOT  ME. 

The  record  of  the  Journals  deserves  better  attention  than  it  has  received,  for  it  is,  indeed,  an  intel- 
ligible record,  not  simply  a  repository  of  quotable  fragments  to  rummage  in  and  sift  for  individual  items 
to  support  critical  arguments  about  Emerson'  s  essays  or  poems  .    I  make  the  point  because  a  carefully 
argued  essay  on  changes  of  style  in  Emerson's  poetry,  in  a  recent  issue  of  PMLA,  perpetuates  the  tradi- 
tional distinction  between  the  literary  modes  of  the  earlier  and  later  Emerson.  12    Despite  the  essay'  s  as- 
sertions to  the  contrary,  the  distinction  is  once  again  hitched  to  "the  development  of  his  ideas"  a  philos- 
ophical shift).    A  more  reliable  coupling,  I  suggest,  would  be  an  investigation  of  the  behavior  of  the  language 
in  the  essays  with  an  exploration  of  the  language  of  the  Journals . 


27 

What  follows  here  and  in  the  appendix  is  a  listing  of  journal  entries  with  as  little  interlocution  as  pos- 
sible to  preserve  the  weight  and  suggestiveness  of  the  passages .    The  entries  are  quoted  in  chronological 
order,  and  cover  the  years  1835  to  1848.    Journal  entries  cited  in  the  discussion  thus  far  are  not  repeated 
here. 


The  aim  of  the  author  is  not  to  tell  truth- -that  he 
cannot  do,  but  to  suggest  it.    He  has  only  approxi- 
mated it  himself  and  hence  his  cumbrous,  embarrassed 
speech:  he  uses  many  words,  hoping  that  one,  if  not 
another,  will  bring  you  as  near  to  the  fact  as  he  is  . 
(J,  III,  491-492). 

Can  I  doubt  that  the  facts  and  events  and  persons 
and  personal  relations  that  now  appertain  to  me  will 
perish  as  utterly  when  the  soul  shall  have  exhausted 
their  meaning  and  use?    The  world  is  the  gymnasium 
on  which  the  youth  of  the  universe  are  trained  to 
strength  and  skill.    When  they  have  become  masters 
of  strength  and  skill,  who  cares  what  becomes  of 
the  masts  and  bars  and  ropes  on  which  they  strained 
their  muscle?  (J,  IV,   126-127). 

We  know  the  authentic  effects  of  the  true  fire 
through  every  one  of  its  million  disguises  .  (J,  V, 
188). 

. .  .the  philosopher  avails  himself  of  the  drama,  the 
epic,  the  novel,  and  becomes  a  poet;  for  these  com- 
plex forms  allow  of  the  utterance  of  his  knowledge 
of  life  by  indirections  as  well  as  in  the  didactic  way, 
and  can  therefore  express  the  fluxional  quantities 
and  values  which  the  thesis  or  dissertation  could 
never  give  .    Q,  V,  189). 


We  learn  with  joy  and  wonder  this  new  and  flatter- 
ing art  of  language,  deceived  by  the  exhilaration 
which  accompanies  the  attainment  of  each  new 
word. ...    It  seemed  to  men  that  words  come 
nearer  to  the  thing;  described  the  fact;  were  the 
fact .    They  learn  later  that  they  only  suggest  it . 
It  is  an  operose,  circuitous  way  of  putting  us  in 
mind  of  the  thing,  --of  flagellating  our  attention. 
(J,  VI,  274-275). 

All  forms  are  fluent,  and  as  the  bird  alights  on 
the  bough  and  pauses  for  rest,  then  plunges  into 
the  air  again  on  its  way,  so  the  thoughts  of  God 
pause  but  for  a  moment  in  any  form,  but  pass 
into  a  new  form ....    A  wise  man  is  not  deceived 
by  the  pause:    he  knows  that  it  is  momentary:    he 
already  foresees  the  new  departure,  and  depar- 
ture after  departure,  in  long  series.  (J,  VII,  117).  13 

The  only  gift  to  men,  the  only  event,  is  a  new 
image,  a  new  symbol.    (J,  VII,  211). 

Every  poem  must  be  made  up  of  lines  that  are 
poems.    (J,  VII,  523). 


In  the  middle  of  the  period  covered  by  these  entries  appeared  "The  Poet, "  the  full-grown  descendant 
of  Nature.    And  one  cannot  read  the  essays  after  1848  (beginning  with  English  Traits)  without  being  returned 
again  and  again  to  "The  Poet"  and  ultimately  to  Nature.    Not  only  are  these  two  permanently  suggestive; 
they  come  as  close  as  is  possible  in  Emerson's  work  to  establishing  something  normative,  an  art  which  we 
can  call  characteristically  Emersonian  because  the  weight  of  the  emphasis  continues  to  be  provided  by  them. 
It  is  their  view  of  art  and  their  flowing  law  of  permutation  which  throws  into  intelligible  relief  the  half  praise 
of  Bacon  and  the  discounting  of  Locke,  Arthur  Hallam,  Dickens  and  Thackeray  in  "Literature"  (English 
Traits).    And  they  help  to  explain  the  many-stringed  instrument  in  "Fate"  (Conduct  of  Life),  where,  through 
the  "pounding  on  each  string.  .  .comes  some  reasonable  hope  of  harmonizing  them;"  the  plea  for  "the  old  eye" 
and  "abandonment"  on  the  part  of  the  scientist  and  inventor  (in  "Works  and  Days, "  Society  and  Solitude)  so 
that  they  will  work  with  poetry  and  humanity;  Emerson'  s  criticism  in  the  strange  eulogy  at  Thoreau'  s 
funeral  ("Thoreau, "  Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches)  of  Thoreau'  s  penchant  for  grasping  and  seeking  to 
hold  the  ungraspable;  the  less  than  optimistic  reminder  in  the  "Fortune  of  the  Republic"  (Miscellanies)  that 
"We  want  men  of  original  perception  and  original  action.  .  .who  can  live  in  the  moment  and  take  a  step  for- 
ward"; the  keynote  in  "Poetry  and  Imagination"  (Letters  and  Social  Aims)  that  "the  creation  is  on  wheels,  in 
transit,  always  passing  into  something  else"  and  that  "the  interest  is  gradually  transferred  from  the  forms 
to  the  lurking  method. "14 


Rather  than  elaborate  on  any  of  these  examples,  I  want  only  to  note  them  and  pass  on,  in  conclusion, 
to  another  late  work  for  a  brief  analysis --Natural  History  of  Intellect,  particularly  its  first  part,  "Powers 
and  Laws  of  Thought."    Emerson  began  composing  this  "natural  history"  while  under  the  influence  of  scien- 
tific lectures  he  had  attended  in  Paris  and  London  during  his  European  visit  in  1847-1848.    The  object  would 
be  to  treat  powers  of  thought  as  "facts, "  "objects  of  science"  which  "may  be  numbered  and  recorded,  like 


28 
stamens  and  vertebrae."    Hence  he  divided  "Powers  and  Laws  of  Thought"  into  three  numbered  sections  and 
analyzed  the  mind  and  its  matrix  in  two  separate  succeeding  essays .    The  scientific  techniques  he  adopted 
are  superficial  at  best:    "The  analytic  process  is  cold  and  bereaving  and,  shall  I  say  it?  somewhat  mean,  as 
spying."    The  essays,  completed  for  a  series  of  lectures  at  Harvard  in  1870,  verify  this .    A  poetic  mode 
comes  closer  to  it,  for  the  life  of  the  mind  is  a  miracle  and  "the  use  of  a  course  on  philosophy  is  that  the 
student  shall  learn  to  appreciate"  that  miracle.    The  essays,  then,  will  be  an  "ode,  "  not  a  "surgical"  per- 
formance .    Emerson  proceeds  to  create  metaphor  instead  of  metaphysics  and  a  succession  of  images  as 
his  truest  facts .    The  structure  of  the  lectures  in  this  way  imitates  the  action  of  their  subject:   just  as  the 
mind  continually  turns  its  perceptions  into  generalizations  according  to  man,  thus  holding  both  multiplicity 
and  movement  by  its  centering  action,  so  the  word  synthesizes  and  reconciles,  binding  in  order  to  unbind. 
The  attempt,  then,  is  to  delineate  the  law  of  permutation,  the  poetic  quality  of  mental  life  when  it  is  free. 
He  called  these  lectures  "anecdotes  of  the  intellect;  a  sort  of  Farmer's  Almanac  of  mental  moods"  and 
"some  sketches  or  studies"  which  at  best  were  synecdoches  of  a  more  complete  "picture"  of  human  intellect, 

The  first  section  of  "Powers  and  Laws  of  Thought"  begins  appropriately  with  the  imaging  of  intellec- 
tual life  as  the  ebbing  and  flowing  sea,  then  shifts  to  the  image  of  the  river:    "In  my  thought  I  seem  to 
stand  on  the  bank  of  a  river  and  watch  the  endless  flow  of  the  stream,  floating  objects  of  all  shapes,  colors 
and  natures;  nor  can  I  much  detain  them  as  they  pass,  except  by  running  beside  them  a  little  way  along  the 
bank.    But  whence  they  come  or  whither  they  go  is  not  told  me.    Only  I  have  a  suspicion  that,  as  geologists 
say  every  river  makes  its  own  valley,  so  does  this  mystic  stream.    It  makes  its  valley,  makes  its  banks 
and  makes  perhaps  the  observer  too.    Who  has  found  the  boundaries  of  human  intelligence?"  (W,  XII,   16). 
The  relation  of  perception  to  expression  is  described  as  follows:    the  perceptions  "hasten  to  incarnate  them- 
selves in  action,  to  take  body. . . .    They  take  to  themselves  wood  and  stone  and  iron;  ships  and  cities  and 
nations  and  armies  of  men  and  ages  of  duration; . .  .agriculture,  trade,  commerce; --these  are  the  ponderous 
instrumentalities  into  which  the  nimble  thoughts  pass,  and  which  they  animate  and  alter,  and  presently, 
antagonized  by  other  thoughts  which  they  first  aroused,  or  by  thoughts  which  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
these,  the  thought  buries  itself  in  the  new  thought  of  larger  scope,  whilst  the  old  instrumentalities  and  in- 
carnations are  decomposed  and  recomposed  into  new."    (W,  XII,   18-19). 

Nature  invites  and  confirms  this  decomposing  and  recomposing,  the  second  and  third  sections  argue, 
because  the  mind'  s  mode  is  also  endemic  to  nature.    Here,  of  course,  some  of  Emerson'  s  descendents, 
most  notably  Wallace  Stevens,  part  company  with  him.    Emerson  easily  finds  evidence  to  support  his  belief 
in  a  correspondence  between  the  modes  of  nature  and  mind  (and,  by  extension,  between  nature  and  art).  The 
view  in  Stevens's  poems,  on  the  contrary,  rarely  deviates  from  the  pronouncement  in  "Sunday  Morning" 
that  "We  live  in  an  old  chaos  of  the  sun."    It  is  his  conviction  that  chaos  resists  order  and  has  little  affinity 
to  the  mind  and  his  belief  that  the  isolated  parts  of  one'  s  world  cannot  realize  their  own  unity  that  nourish 
his  sense  of  absurdity  ("the  deer  and  the  dachshund  are  one").    Emerson  and  Stevens,  then,  hold  essentially 
the  same  view  of  how  mind  and  art  work;  Emerson,  because  nature  agrees  and  the  artist  must  be  a  good 
citizen  of  nature  in  order  to  work  well;   Stevens,  because  nature  is  chaotic  and  alien  and  man  must  be  the 
poet  in  order  to  survive  and  work.    For  Emerson  the  law  of  permutation  is  the  law  of  the  universe;  for 
Stevens  it  is  strictly  the  law  of  the  human  creative  initiative,  the  "giant  of  nothingness"  who  is  "ever  chang- 
ing, living  in  change."   The  counterpart  to  Emerson's  "The  Poet"  is  "Notes  toward  a  Supreme  Fiction,"  to 
"Powers  and  Laws  of  Thought"  is  "A  Primitive  Like  an  Orb."    Emerson's  "eternal  resurrection  and  re- 
habilitation, "  which  both  define  and  account  for  the  power  of  mental  life,  is  enacted  in  "A  Primitive  Like  an 
Orb,"  in  which  the  permutation  proceeds  from  "center  of  things"  to  "arias"  to  "gorging  good"  to  "essential 
gold"  to  "slight  genii"  to  "harmony"  to  "Green  guests  and  table  in  the  woods"  to  "space  grown  wide"  to 
"central  poem"  to  mating  to  "light"  to  "vis"  to  "principle"  to  "magnet"  to  "giant."    (Stanza  VII  is  the  para- 
digm for  the  whole  poem;    each  line  is  another  image  and  another  poem.)   Both  works,  in  fact,  culminate 
with  the  same  image.    Emerson  concludes  "Powers  and  Laws  of  Thought"  with  a  discussion  of  the  "shape- 
less giant"  (W,  XII,  35)  which  in  the  next  essay  is  characteristically  given  new  versions --"slumberous 
giant,"  "oldest  angel, "  "drowsy  genius"  (W,  XII,  69). 

The  law  of  permutation,  whose  life  is  the  giant  "excited,  "  is  more  than  the  kind  of  transference  ob- 
served in  trade  and  commerce,   Emerson  suggests.    This  reminder  is  the  heart  of  the  argument  in  the 
second  essay  of  Natural  History  of  Intellect .    The  better  man  does  not  transfer  objects  but  changes  their 
arrangement.    And  the  best  men  actually  create,  that  is,  engender  new  forms,  themselves  as  various  as 
the  shapes  of  leaves:  some  create  commodities,  some  poems;  one  man  forms  new  social  relationships, 


29 
another  a  new  philosophy.    This  constant  creation  "never  rests  or  repeats  itself,  but  casts  its  old  garb, 
and  reappears,  another  creature:    the  old  energy  in  a  new  form,  with  all  the  vigor  of  the  earth."    To  apply 
this  to  the  literary  artist,  "No  practical  rules  for  the  poem,  no  working-plan  was  ever  drawn  up.    It  is 
miraculous  at  all  points"  (W,  XII,  71-72). 

It  is  this  mode,  "the  old  energy"  forever  reappearing  "in  a  new  form"  and  with  new  energy,  that  pro- 
vides what  directedness  and  stability  there  are  in  Emerson'  s  art.    The  world,  to  him,  is  always  a  "spec- 
tacle,"  an  endlessly  changing  field.    The  self,  too,  never  rests,  but  participates  in  the  changing  scene. 
The  stable  point  is  not  an  inner  faculty  or  the  ego  or  an  over-soul,  but  an  on-going  action  in  which  we  know 
ourselves  through  the  world  and  the  world  according  to  us  .    Much  of  the  time  Emerson'  s  discussion  of  the 
self  is  virtually  interchangeable  with  his  discussion  of  art.    The  language  seeks  out  the  "I"  as  the  center  to 
which  all  is  to  be  related.    Yet  immediately  in  such  a  reduction  the  "I"  shades  into  its  basic  denominator, 
the  single  point  of  consciousness  with  no  dimension  except  that  created  by  the  point  on  the  move.    Seen  by 
themselves,  apart  from  the  mode  of  permutation,  the  individual  acts  appear  discontinuous,  each  act  a  new 
and  isolated  motif.    Followed  through,  Emerson  would  say,  they  are  the  life  that  makes  us  as  we  are  and 
the  very  life  that  makes  and  is  the  art . 

The  continuity-discontinuity  of  the  mode  accounts  for  the  tension  rarely  absent  from  Emerson'  s  art 
between  the  presence  of  the  "I"  as  justifier  and  regulator  of  the  world  of  its  horizons  and  the  recognition 
that  the  "I"  is  nothing  even  though  it  sees  all,  is  but  a  momentary  act  or  moment  of  being  among  all  other 
transient  forms  vanishing  in  time  (and  in  art)  to  reappear  as  a  new  form.    The  true  epiphany  is  the  bright- 
ness of  change  in  experience  and  language,  the  serious  play  of  permutation.    The  least  interesting  passages 
in  Emerson  are  also  the  kind  of  writing  he  feared  most--where  poetic  prose  becomes  pure  prose  and  the 
exposition  settles  into  a  sabbath  of  rest.    The  artist  cannot  hope  to  solve  the  sphinxian  riddle  of  his  exis- 
tence by  becoming  like  the  sphinx.    In  Emerson'  s  "The  Sphinx"  the  crouching  stone  oracle  has  waited  in 
silence  not  to  baffle  man,  but  because  the  true  poet  has  not  yet  arrived.    When  he  finally  appears,  with  the 
"proper  eye, " 


Uprose  the  merry  Sphinx 

And  crouched  no  more  in  stone; 
She  melted  into  purple  cloud, 

She  silvered  in  the  moon; 


She  spired  into  a  yellow  flame; 

She  flowered  in  blossoms  red; 
She  flowed  into  a  foaming  wave; 

She  stood  Monadnoc's  head. 


APPENDIX 

Listed  here  are  additional  journal  entries  spanning  the  years  from  the  writing  of  Nature  to  1848 .  The 
view  they  express  constitutes  one  of  the  two  or  three  most  persistent  emphases  in  the  Journals  for  these 
years . 


How  much  is  supposed  in  every  discourse!    O  poet! 
thou  wert  ten  times  a  poet,  if  thou  couldst  articulate 
that  unsaid  part .    (J,  IV,  495). 

Ah!  that  I  could  reach  with  my  words  the  force  of 
that  rhetoric  of  things  in  which  the  Divine  mind  is 
conveyed  to  me,  day  by  day,  in  what  I  call  my  life; 
a  loaf  of  bread,  an  errand  to  the  town,  a  temperate 
man,  an  industrious  man.    (J>  V,  376-377). 


The  method  of  advance  in  nature  is  perpetual 
transformation.    Be  ready  to  emerge  from  the 
chrysalis  of  today,  its  thoughts  and  institutions, 
as  thou  hast  come  out  of  the  chrysalis  of  yester- 
day.   (J,  V,  484-485). 

Could  you  not  by  grasping  it  very  tight  hold  the 
stream  of  a  river,  or  of  a  small  brook,  and  pre- 
vent it  from  flowing?  (J,  VI,   101). 


No  inventory  is  complete ....    The  asters  and 
eupatoriums  are  maturing  their  leaves  and  buds , 
the  gerardia  is  getting  ready  its  profuse  flowers, 
warning  me  that  my  book  should  be  ended  before 
their  capsules  are  filled  with  seed  .    (J,  V,  422). 

Of  Carlyle's  method  Emerson  observed:  "His  con- 
templation has  no  wings  .    He  exhausts  his  topic . 
There  is  no  more  to  be  said  when  he  has  ended .  He 
is  not  suggestive."    (J,  V,  440). 


Life  itself  is  an  interim  and  a  transition;  this,  O 
Indur,  is  my  one  and  twenty  thousandth  form,  and 
already  I  feel  the  old  Life  sprouting  underneath  in 
the  twenty  thousand  and  first.  ...    (J,  VI,  419-420). 

We  sidle  towards  the  problem .    If  we  could  speak 
the  direct,  solving  word,  it  would  solve  us  too; 
we  should  die,  or  be  liberated  as  the  gas  in  the 
great  gas  of  the  atmosphere.    (J,  VII,  91). 


30 
I  should  say  that  the  imagination  exists  by  sharing  The  interest  of  the  gardener  and  the  pomologist 

the  ethereal  currents .    (J,  VII,   160).  has  the  same  foundation  as  that  of  the  Poet, -- 

namely,  in  the  metamorphosis.    (J,  VII,  313). 
Hawthorne  invites  his  readers  too  much  into  his 

study,  opens  the  process  before  them.    As  if  the  The  world  is  a  glass  dictionary.    (J,  VII,  515). 

confectioner  should  say  to  his  customers,  "Now, 
let  us  make  the  cake"  (J,  VII,   188).  If  I  wrote  a  novel,  my  hero  should  begin  a 

soldier  and  rise  out  of  that  to  such  degrees  of 
On  the  seashore  at  Nantucket  I  saw  the  play  of  the  wisdom  and  virtue  as  we  could  paint;  for  that 

Atlantic  with  the  coast.    Here  was  wealth;  every  is  the  order  of  Nature  .    (J,  VII,  518). 

wave  reached  a  quarter  of  a  mile  along  shore  as 
it  broke. . . .    Our  expression  is  so  slender,  thin, 
and  cramp ;  can  we  not  learn  here  a  generous 
eloquence?  (J,  VII,  270-271). 

University  of  Washington 


I  Journals  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  Edward  Waldo  Emerson  and  Waldo  Emerson  Forbes,   10  vols . 
(Boston  and  New  York,   1909-1914),  III,  477.    Hereafter  cited  parenthetically  as  J .    The  essays  are  from 
The  Complete  Works  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,   12  vols . ,  Centenary  Edition  (Boston  and  New  York,   1903). 
Subsequently  the  Complete  Works  will  be  noted  as  W.         2    Philadelphia,   1953,  p.  52. 

3  "Introduction,"  Selections  from  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (Boston,   1957),  pp.  xviii-xix. 

4  The  most  recent  example  is  John  Q.  Anderson'  s  The  Liberating  Gods  (Coral  Gables,   1971).    Two  notable 
exceptions  are  Jonathan  Bishop's  Emerson  On  the  Soul  and  Phyllis  Burke's  unpublished  doctoral  thesis, 
"Emerson's  Prose  Style:  His  Created  World"  (University  of  Washington).    Of  the  two,  Bishop  is  much  more 
willing  to  account  for  the  behavior  of  Emerson's  language.    Ms.  Burke  recognizes  that  Emerson's  language 
emerges  "with  its  own  individual  nature, "  to  quote  the  Journals ,  and  that  it  is  essentially  a  private  one. 
More  importantly,  she  notes  the  shifting  perspectives,  permutations  of  images,  switching  of  motifs  and  the 
logical  inconsistencies.    But  she  finally  concludes  the  style  is  erratic  and  confusing,  making  her  judgment 
out  of  a  critical  context  which  Emerson  consistently  and  flatly  rejects  . 

5  "The  Dialectical  Unity  in  Emerson'  s  Prose,  "  The  Journal  of  Speculative  Philosophy,  XVIII  (April,   1884), 
195-202;  and  "Emerson's  Philosophy  of  Nature,"  The  Genius  and  Character  of  Emerson,    ed.  F.  B.  San- 
born (Boston  and  New  York,   1898),  pp.  339-364. 

6  Jonathan  Bishop,  Emerson  On  The  Soul  (Cambridge,   1964),  p.  188. 

7  Emerson'  s  Angle  of  Vision  (Cambridge,   1952),  p.  30. 

8  "Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,"  Masters  of  American  Literature,  edited  by  Leon  Edel,  Thomas  H.  Johnson, 
Sherman  Paul  and  Claude  Simpson  (Cambridge,   1959),  p.  269. 

9  And  here,  I  suggest,  is  the  vital  impulse  of  an  American  literary  tradition.    To  the  list  should  be  added 
Robert  Frost  when  he  is  not  editorializing  and  epigrammatizing  in  the  public  role  of  witty  and  wise  cultural 
hero  and  William  Carlos  Williams  in  his  later  work  (notably  from  Paterson  on). 

10  Emerson  On  The  Soul,  pp.  9-15. 

II  ELH,  XXXI  (March,   1964),  86-105.    See  also  Poets  of  Reality  (Cambridge,   1966),  pp.  217-284. 

12  R.  A.  Yoder,  "Toward  the  'Titmouse  Dimension  :    The  Development  of  Emerson's  Poetic  Style,"  PMLA, 
LXXXVII  (March,   1972),  p.  255-270. 

13  The  succession  of  clauses  and  phrases,  with  the  colons  and  commas  separating  the  cadences,  creates 
an  interesting  doubleness:  the  restless,  on-going  sentence,  yet  the  periodic  stops  poised  against  the  move- 
ment, a  compressed  version  of  end  becoming  beginning  and  the  stopping  serving  as  a  new  departure. 

14  Precise  dates  cannot  be  determined  for  many  of  these  essays .    "Literature"  and  "Fate"  belong  to  the 
early  fifties,  "Works  and  Days"  was  delivered  first  in  1857,  "Thoreau"  was  written  in  1862  immediately 
following  Thoreau' s  death,  "Fortune  of  The  Republic"  was  drafted  in  1863  and  revised  after  the  War, 
"Poetry  and  Imagination"  grew  out  of  several  stages  of  work  in  the  1840'  s,   1850'  s  and  I860'  s,  but  was  first 
delivered  as  a  lecture  (in  two  parts)  in  1872. 

WORKS,  DAYS,  POETRY,  AND  IMAGINATION  hyatt  h.  waggoner 

If  there  were  world  enough  and  time,  I  should  like  to  write  a  rather  long  and  quite  detailed  commen- 
tary on  two  of  Emerson'  s  major  late  essays  that  seem  to  me  not  as  well  known  as  they  deserve  to  be, 


31 
"Works  and  Days"  in  Society  and  Solitude  and  "Poetry  and  Imagination"  in  Letters  and  Social  Aims .    "Works 
and  Days"  starts  out  as  an  expository  essay  on  the  technological  progress  of  Emerson'  s  century  but  then 
about  a  third  of  the  way  along  becomes  a  prose  poem  on  the  "everlasting  Now"  available  to  the  imagination 
in  those  "mystic"  units  of  time  we  experience  as  our  days .    "Poetry  and  Imagination"  is  less  coherent,  even 
at  times  jerky,  betraying  its  late  composition,  compilation  almost,  from  passages  written  earlier,  but  it 
may  well  be  the  wisest,  most  penetrating,  and  most  complete  treatment  of  its  subject  in  our  literature.  The 
long  commentary  will  have  to  wait,  or  be  done  by  someone  else,  but  I  can  at  least  try  to  suggest  some  of 
the  reasons  why  the  two  essays  deserve  more  attention  than  they  normally  receive. 

I  have  just  written  at  some  length  on  the  relation  between  the  poem  "Days"  and  the  essay  "Works  and 
Days"  and  I  do  not  wish  to  repeat  myself  here  on  that  subject.    Only  this:    that  if  Matthiessen  had  had  the 
essay  more  freshly  in  mind  when  he  wrote  about  "Days"  in  American  Renaissance  he  would  not,  we  can  only 
suppose,  have  fallen  into  the  error  of  interpreting  the  poem  as  an  ironic  exercise  in  the  Eliotic  Symbolist 
mode.    (On  the  other  hand,  he  might  have  decided  to  read  the  poem  as  he  did  anyway,  since  in  his  time  "ex- 
ternal evidence,  "  even  when  found  in  other  works  by  the  same  writer,  was  taboo,  and  to  consider  a  writer'  s 
"intention"  was  supposed  to  be  a  critical  "fallacy.")   The  essay  makes  clear  Emerson's  intention  in  the 
poem:  the  speaker,  having  forgotten  his  morning  wishes  to  make  the  most  of  "the  deep  today,"  chooses  un- 
imaginatively when  he  takes  a  few  herbs  and  apples .    Herbs  had  real  or  supposed  curative  powers ,  and 
apples  were  good  to  eat --and  Emerson,  an  enthusiastic  orchardist,  enjoyed  both  raising  and  eating  them; 
but  the  potential  depth  of  the  day  could  be  appreciated  only  by  one  who  apprehended  the  "mystic"  significance 
of  stars  and  sky  and  the  "Cosmos"  (Emerson's  emphasis)  they  suggest.    All  the  other  gifts,  the  pleasantly 
and  humbly  useful  herbs  and  apples,  the  humbly  necessary  fagots  and  bread,  and  even  the  diadems  and  king- 
doms that  suggest  worldly  riches  and  power,  are  under,  lower  than,  the  "sky  that  holds  them  all, "  as  the 
Many  are  contained  in  the  One.    The  poem  laments  the  failure  of  a  Transcendentalist  to  live  always  in  terms 
of  his  Transcendental  awareness  . 

The  first  part  of  the  essay,  as  I  have  said,  treats  those  good  and  useful  "works"  of  the  century- -the 
railroads  and  telegraphs,  balloons  and  photography- -that  Emerson  would  be  the  last  to  decry,  that  he  indeed 
often  praised  enthusiastically.    These  are  the  parallels  in  history  of  the  poem'  s  herbs  and  apples  .    (Emer- 
son spent  a  good  deal  of  time  and  money  procuring  the  latest  improved  varieties  of  apples,  peaches,  and 
pears  for  his  orchard;  these  too  were  evidences  of  "progress.")   But  then,  having  applauded  them  without 
qualification,  he  wonders  whether  these  great  "works"  of  his  age  are  a  sufficient  reason  for  self-congratu- 
lation.   "Invention  breeds  invention,  "  but  what  have  all  the  inventions  done  for  the  quality  of  our  life?    Men 
become  the  tools  of  their  machines.    Commerce  is  still  as  "selfish"  as  ever,  and  politics  "were  never  more 
corrupt  and  brutal."    We  can  imagine  the  Hawthorne  of  "The  Celestial  Railroad"  writing  Emerson'  s  transi- 
tional sentence:    "Many  facts  concur  to  show  that  we  must  look  deeper  for  our  salvation  than  to  steam,  photo- 
graphs, balloons  or  astronomy."    Deeper  than  either  applied  or  pure  science,  in  short.    Insofar  as  his  cen- 
tury had  come  to  feel  that  material  progress  gave  it  sufficient  reason  for  confidence,  his  age  was  quite  mis- 
taken:   "Works  and  days  were  offered  us,  and  we  took  works ." 

Emerson'  s  double  consciousness  was  never  better  illustrated  than  in  the  turn  the  essay  now  takes . 
"We  live  in  two  worlds  at  once,"  as  he  said  elsewhere,  and  the  trick  is  not  to  forget  either.    Railroads  are 
realities  in  space  and  time  and  they  alter  our  experience  of  both  dimensions,  but  there  are  still  more  im- 
portant, though  less  tangible,  realities  that  only  imaginative  vision  can  realize  but  that  must  be  realized  if 
we  are  to  be  saved  from  grossness  and  triviality.    Properly --that  is,  imaginatively --apprehended,  the  day 
is  a  "miracle."    The  poetic  imagination  sees  in  each  day  "the  heaven  deep  with  worlds,"  senses  the  tenuous - 
ness  of  the  boundaries  between  "matter  and  spirit."     Every  day  is  a  "miracle  hurled  into  every  beggar's 
hands .    The  blue  sky  is  a  covering  for  a  market  and  for  the  cherubim  and  seraphim."    Experiencing  our 
days  unimaginatively,  we  trivialize  them,  not  realizing  that  in  each  of  them  "He  lurks,  he  hides,  --he  who  is 
success,  reality,  joy,  and  power"  (Emerson's  emphasis). 

Emerson's  Puritan  ministerial  ancestors  would  have  called  the  "he"  Emerson  emphasizes  typographi- 
cally here  "God."    Emerson,  wary  of  misinterpretation  by  the  orthodox,  usually  chose  instead  terms  bike 
"World-Soul,"  "Over-Soul,"  "Spirit,"  or  even  sometimes,  in  his  earlier  years,  simply  "Reason."    But  un- 
der whatever  name,  this  was  the  One  that  contained  the  Many,  the  Reality  that  manifested  itself  in  the  mani- 
fold actualities  .    The  realm  of  the  Many,  in  which  all  of  us  must  live,  might  seem  sufficient  to  the  man  of 
action  and  could  even  seem  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  scholarly  man  of  thought--for  example,  the  learned 


32 
historian  who  offers  us  mere  facts,  who  is  dismissed  with  some  scorn  late  in  the  essay- -but  nothing  less 
than  an  intuition  of  the  One  could  satisfy  the  poet.    No  mere  scholarship  but  only  the  poetic  imagination  "can 
uncover  the  ligaments  concealed  from  all  but  piety,  which  attach  dull  men  and  things  we  know  to  the  First 
Cause." 

One  use  of  "Works  and  Days,  "  apart  from  the  satisfactions  it  can  afford  us  as  a  great  prose  poem,  is 
to  correct  the  widespread  notion  that  as  Emerson  qualified  and  toned-down  his  Transcendentalism  in  his 
later  years  he  ceased  to  be  "religious ."    He  re-defined  "nature, "  as  he  tells  us  in  "Fate,  "  from  opportunity 
to  limitation,  toward  which  he  cultivated  resignation,  but  he  did  not  lose  his  sense  of  the  reality  of  the  One 
behind  and  within  the  Many.    He  came  to  see  the  apprehension  of  it  as  more  difficult  but  not  as  impossible. 
He  knew  from  experience  how  easy  it  was  to  be  content  with  mere  herbs  and  apples,  but  he  never  gave  up 
his  belief  that  the  scorn  the  speaker  in  the  poem  saw  on  the  face  of  the  day  was  deserved .    If  idealistic 
metaphysics  could  not  support  the  religious  intuitions,  as  he  had  argued  when  he  began  his  career  with  the 
manifesto  Nature,  then  the  poetic  imagination  was  enough  and  more  than  enough .    As  he  put  it  in  the  late 
essay  "Immortality, "  not  logic,  not  philosophy,  but  the  poetry  of  Wordsworth'  s  great  "Ode"  continued  to 
be  "the  best  modern  essay  on  the  subject.    We  cannot  prove  our  faith  by  syllogisms ." 

I  have  deliberately  interpreted  the  latter  two-thirds  of  "Works  and  Days"  in  terms  of  ideas  Emerson 
leaves  mostly  implied  there  but  makes  explicit  in  "Poetry  and  Imagination"  because  the  essays  seem  to  me 
to  complement  each  other.    They  make  a  pair  in  much  the  same  way  that  "Self-Reliance"  and  "The  Over- 
Soul"  make  a  pair,  each  being  incomplete  as  "theory"  without  the  other.    "Self-reliance"  would  be  childish 
self-assertion  and  self-engrossment,  as  Quentin  Anderson  has  described  it  in  The  Imperial  Self,  if  the  Over- 
Soul  were  not  real  and  not  within  us .    Similarly,  the  claims  made  for  the  poetic  imagination  would  seem  ex- 
aggerated if  we  did  not  assume  that  poets,  like  the  rest  of  us,  live  in  the  actual  world  of  things,  of  inven- 
tions, commerce,  and  politics,  described  in  the  opening  section  of  "Works  and  Days."    It  is  typical  of 
Emerson'  s  essays,  and  to  my  way  of  thinking  not  a  weakness  in  them,  that  they  are  theoretically  unbalanced, 
ambiguous,  and  inadequate  - -as  philosophy,  as  social  science,  or  even  as  ethical  or  literary  theorizing. 
They  offer  us  knowledge,  not  just  emotive  satisfactions;  but  the  kind  of  knowledge  they  offer  us  is  the  kind 
that  poetry  offers .    "All  thinking  is  analogizing,  "  Emerson  says  in  "Poetry  and  Imagination, "  and  the  think- 
ing in  the  best  of  the  essays  proceeds  by  metaphor. 

"The  Poet"  is  at  once  a  more  impassioned,  lyrical,  and  coherent  prose  poem  than  "Poetry  and  Imagi- 
nation" and  a  less  shrewd  and  prescient  one.    I  know  of  no  essay  by  Eliot  or  Stevens  on  the  subject  that 
foreshadows  so  completely  as  "Poetry  and  Imagination"  both  the  theory  and  the  practice  of  contemporary 
poets--and  a  good  many  older  ones  too,  like  Pound  and  Williams  .    "The  Poet's    dictum  that,  "It  is  not 
metre  but  metre-making  argument  that  makes  a  poem"  has  now  been  boiled  down  to     "Ask  the  fact  for  the 
form,  "  a  condensation  that  shifts  the  statement  away  from  abstraction  and  avoids  the  irrelevant  meanings 
of  "argument."   A.  R.  Amnions'  "Poetics"  is  just  one  of  many  fine  contemporary  poems  that  either  state 
or  illustrate  the  ideal --or,  in  this  case,  do  both  at  once. 

The  essay  announces  an  epistemology  that  is  relevant  to  whole  areas  of  contemporary  thought  and  feel- 
ing, not  just  to  contemporary  poetry.    Parts  of  it  read  as  though  they  might  have  been  written  by  an  English- 
speaking  Heidegger  in  Poetry,  Language,  Thought .    The  direction  of  Emerson'  s  thinking  in  the  essay  is  of- 
fered support  by  Thomas  S.  Kuhn's  too -little -known  The  Structure  oj  Scientific  Revolutions  and  James  J. 
Gibson'  s  The  Perception  of  the  Visual  World .    We  are  just  now  beginning  to  understand  the  world  and  our 
knowledge  of  it  in  ways  fully  adumbrated  in  "Poetry  and  Imagination,  "  as  reading  in  the  same  sitting  first 
Emerson's  essay  and  then  Ruth  Nanda  Anshen' s  "Credo  Perspectives:  Their  Meaning  and  Their  Function" 
in  Paul  Tillich' s  My  Search  for  Absolutes  would  strongly  suggest. 

I  have  wanted  to  call  attention  to  these  two  seldom -mentioned  essays  and  to  suggest,  in  skeletal  form, 
some  of  the  reasons  why  I  find  them  rewarding  and  important.    Everything  I  have  said,  if  true,  needs  either 
expansion  or  qualification.    If  I  have  prompted  anyone  to  reread  them,  or  to  read  them  for  the  first  time, 
I  have  done  the  job  I  set  out  to  do .    It  is  unsafe  to  assume  that  late  Emerson  is  weak  Emerson. 

Brown  University 

h 


33 

THE  EVOLUTION  OF  EMERSON'S  SECOND  "NATURE" 

RICHARD  LEE  FRANCIS 

Writing  to  his  brother  William  in  February,   1844,  Emerson  referred  to  the  "chapters"  of  his  new 
collection  of  essays  he  had  thus  far  written  as  possessing  an  "obituary  sound"  (L_,  III,  242).    And  to 
Margaret  Fuller  a  few  days  later  he  noted:     "when  I  write  I  perversely  turn  my  back  on  ethics,  &  write  on 
Nature,  Poets,  Life..."(L,  III,  243).    Because  of  this  ironic  tone  of  self  deprecation  in  his  letters ,  Emer- 
son more  clearly  revealed  his  concerns  in  the  notebooks  for  this  period .    In  an  entry  in  Journal  G  for  6  July 
1841,  he  mused:    "In  every  week  there  is  some  hour  when  I  read  my  commission  in  every  cipher  of  nature, 
and  know  that  I  was  made  for  another  office,  a  professor  of  the  Joyous  Science,  a  detector  &  delineator  of 
occult  harmonies  &  unpublished  beauties,  a  herald  of  civility,  nobility,  learning,   &  wisdom;  an  affirmer  of 
the  One  Law,  yet  as  one  who  should  affirm  it  in  music  or  dancing,  a  priest  of  the  Soul  yet  one  who  would 
better  love  to  celebrate  it  through  the  beauty  of  health  &  harmonious  power"  (JMN,  VIII,  8).    The  old  dilem- 
ma of  vocation  had  resurfaced  after  the  publication  of  the  first  series  of  Essays ,  and  Nature  was  once  more 
to  be  the  overt  means  for  resolving  the  dilemma .    At  the  start  of  Journal  H  which  he  kept  simultaneously 
with  G  in  late  1841,  he  cryptically  entered  without  elaboration:    "Nature  is  a  silent  man  (JMN,  VIII,  79). 
Like  that  other  troublesome  time  after  the  Divinity  School  Address,  when  he  endeavored  to  explore  the 
"Method  of  Nature, "  he  again  turned  to  the  natural  world  to  help  define  the  Self.    "The  Poet"  speaks  of  the 
way  in  which  language  well  shaped  reveals  what  he  called  the  "Metamorphosis  of  nature"  (JMN,  VIII,  23). 
Perhaps  the  most  revealing  passages  of  all  are  from  the  K  journal  for  1842 .    The  first  is  somewhat  self- 
deprecating  in  its  initial  tone  but  not  inconsistent  with  the  second:    "I  am  most  of  the  time  a  very  young 
child  who  does  not  pretend  to  oversee  nature  &  dictate  its  law.    I  play  with  it  like  other  infants  as  my  toy. 
I  see  sun  &  moon  &  river  without  asking  their  causes .    I  am  pleased  by  the  mysterious  music  of  falling 
water  or  the  rippling  &  washing  against  the  shores  without  knowing  why .    Yet  child  as  I  am  I  know  that  I 
may  in  any  moment  wake  up  to  the  sense  of  authority  &  deity  herein.    A  seer,  a  prophet  passing  by  will 
bring  me  to  it;  poetry  will;  nay  I  shall  think  it  in  austere  woods  &  they  will  tremble  and  turn  to  dreams" 
(JMN,  VIII,  217).     The  second  passage  describes  more  precisely  the  relation  of  the  poet  to  nature,  yet  it 
also  suggests  something  of  the  mystery  and  awe  of  child-like  wonder  stressed  in  the  first  but  this  time  on 
a  more  sophisticated  level.    Though  it  was  not  used  directly  in  "The  Poet, "  it  contains  one  of  the  central 
metaphors  of  that  essay:    "The  Poet  should  not  only  be  able  to  use  nature  as  his  hieroglyphic,  but  he  should 
have  a  still  higher  power,  namely,  an  adequate  message  to  communicate;  a  vision  fit  for  such  a  faculty" 
(JMN,  VIII,  229).    This  passage  is  consistent  with  that  journal  entry  of  two  years  earlier,  when  he  first 
proposed  a  "new  Chapter  on  Nature":    "We  are  predominated  herein  as  elsewhere  by  an  upper  wisdom  and 
resemble  those  great  discoverers  who  are  haunted  for  years,  sometimes  from  infancy  with  a  passion  for 
the  fact  or  class  of  facts  in  which  the  secret  lies  which  they  are  destined  to  unlock  &  they  let  it  not  go  until 
the  blessing  is  won.    So  these  sunsets  &  starlights,  these  swamps  &  rocks,  these  birdnotes  &  animal  forms 
off  which  we  cannot  get  our  eyes  &  ears  but  hover  still  as  moths  round  a  lamp  are  no  doubt  a  Sanscrit  cipher 
covering  the  whole  religious  history  of  the  Universe,   &  presently  we  shall  read  it  off  into  action  &  character' 
(JMN,  VII,  375).    But  it  is  not  altogether  consistent  with  subsequent  passages  in  other  journals  for  1842  and 
1843,  which  express  some  doubt  about  man's  relation  to  nature.    Journal  Z  [A]  records  how  "Nature  hates 
calm  system-makers"  because  her  methods  are  impulsive--a  passage  used  in  "Experience"  (JMN,  VIII, 
317).    In  Journal  R  the  following  year  is  another  revealing  utterance:    "In  Nature  the  doubt  recurs  whether 
the  man  is  the  cause  or  the  effect. . .  .    Culminate  we  do  not:   but  that  point  of  imperfection  which  we  occupy-- 
is  it  on  the  way  up  or  down?"    A  few  lines  further  on  is  the  quotation:    "Look  not  on  Nature,  for  her  name 
is  fatal"  (JMN,  VIII,  362). 

Clearly  these  observations  over  a  period  of  four  years  reveal  a  mind  once  more  in  turmoil  over  what 
role  Nature  was  to  play  in  defining  the  intricate  relationship  between  the  self  and  society.  Like  the  efforts 
to  define  the  role  of  the  Scholar,  these  attempts  at  redefining  nature  were  characterized  by  ambivalences. 
It  is  difficult  to  agree  with  Edward  Emerson  that  the  essay  on  "Nature"  reflects  a  "serener  mood"  than  the 
earlier  one  (W,  III,  328).  The  ferment  is  more  experienced  and  more  muted  in  tone  but  nonetheless  real. 
The  motto  touches  on  the  perplexity: 

The  rounded  world  is  fair  to  see,  The  secret  of  its  laboring  heart, 

Nine  times  folded  in  mystery:  Throb  thine  with  Nature'  s  throbbing  breast, 

Though  baffled  seers  cannot  impart  And  all  is  clear  from  east  to  west  (W,  III,   167). 


34 

The  mystery  persists  concerning  the  natural  world,  but  man  can  at  least  gain  some  comprehension  of 
its  meaning  by  becoming  attuned  to  its  rhythms .    So  the  essay  begins  with  a  highly  lyrical  passage  of  re- 
sponse to  the  wonder  of  the  seasons  experienced  by  the  "surprised  man  of  the  world, "  who  stands  like  a 
pilgrim  at  "the  gates  of  the  forest."    The  enchantments  of  nature  are  medicinal- -"they  sober  and  heal  us" 
(W,  III,   169, 171).    But  they  also  hint  at  greater  possibilities,  of  "ministrations  to  the  imagination  and  the 
soul, "  which  (in  Emerson'  s  favorite  Miltonic  metaphor)  will  allow  us  to  converse  with  Gabriel  and  Uriel. 
Since,  however,  this  kind  of  ecstatic  response  can  "outrun  the  sympathy  of  readers,  "  Emerson  turned  to  a 
more  systematic  analysis,  taking  as  principal  terms  the  old  scholastic  distinction  between  natura  naturata 
(or  "nature  passive"  as  he  called  it)  and  natura  naturans  ("Efficient  Nature")  (W,  III,   176, 179).  The  former 
is  a  reflection  of  the  best  in  man  and,  therefore,  somewhat  unreal  until  "the  landscape  has  human  figures 
that  are  as  good  as  itself"  (W,  III,   178).     Since  man's  condition  is  fallen  (a  position  Emerson  emphatically 
established  in  "Experience"),  it  must  be  distinguished  from  the  condition  of  nature,  which  is  "erect, "  thus 
severely  limiting  the  identity  of  man  with  nature  passive.    If,  however,  we  turn  to  Efficient  Nature  we  en- 
counter a  different  condition:  we  move  from  a  concern  with  its  unitary  significance  to  a  concern  with  ag- 
gregate objects .    In  a  passage  of  considerable  importance  to  the  evolution  of  his  schema,  Emerson  de- 
scribed active  Nature:     "It  publishes  itself  in  creatures,  reaching  from  particles  and  spiculae  through 
transformation  on  transformation  to  the  highest  symmetries,  arriving  at  consummate  results  without  a 
shock  or  a  leap.    A  little  heat,  that  is  a  little  motion,  is  all  that  differences  the  bald,  dazzling  white  and 
deadly  cold  poles  of  the  earth  from  the  prolific  tropical  climates.    All  changes  pass  without  violence,  by 
reason  of  the  two  cardinal  conditions  of  boundless  space  and  boundless  time.    Geology  has  initiated  us  into 
the  secularity  of  nature,  and  taught  us  to  disuse  our  dame-school  measures,  and  exchange  our  Mosaic  and 
Ptolemaic  schemes  for  her  large  style.    We  knew  nothing  rightly,  for  want  of  perspective.    Now  we  learn 
what  patient  periods  must  round  themselves  before  the  rock  is  formed;  then  before  the  rock  is  broken,  and 
the  first  lichen  race  has  disintegrated  the  thinnest  external  plate  into  soil,  and  opened  the  door  for  the  re- 
mote Flora,  Fauna,  Ceres,  and  Pomona  to  come  in.    How  far  off  yet  is  the  trilobite!    how  far  the  quadruped! 
how  inconceivably  remote  is  man!    All  duly  arrive,  and  then  race  after  race  of  men.    It  is  a  long  way  from 
granite  to  the  oyster;  farther  yet  to  Plato  and  the  preaching  of  the  immortality  of  the  soul.    Yet  all  must 
come,  as  surely  as  the  first  atom  has  two  sides"  (W,  III,   179-180). 

This  sense  of  the  long  continuum  of  the  objects  of  the  natural  world  sets  the  theme  for  the  remainder 
of  the  essay  and  nicely  foreshadows  the  revised  version  of  Nature  (1849)  with  its  new  motto  describing  the 
spires  of  form .    This  vision  of  evolutionary  change  is  one  aspect  of  the  dual  comprehension  of  nature  that 
Emerson  now  saw.    Motion  and  rest  are  its  principal  characteristics  .    Motion  defines  the  nature  of  things 
as  we  encounter  them  in  the  world  around  us;  rest  characterizes  our  ability  to  organize  the  motion  by  iden- 
tifying the  analogies  that  exist  between  things  .    Thus  the  centrifugal  action  of  the  world  is  matched  by  a 
centripetal  one.    Central  to  recognizing  the  relation  between  these  two  forces  is  Man,  who  "carries  the 
world  in  his  head,  the  whole  astronomy  and  chemistry  suspended  in  a  thought"  (W,  III,   183).    But  Nature  is 
not  merely  Mind  (as  in  the  earlier  essay);  it  is  also  Force.    Nature  initiates  action  through  an  "aboriginal 
push,  "  which  (in  a  revealing  metaphor)  "propagates  itself  through  all  the  balls  of  the  system,  and  through 
every  atom  of  every  ball;  through  all  the  races  of  creatures,  and  through  the  history  and  performances  of 
every  individual"  (W,  III,   184).    It  is  like  electricity  in  the  air;  it  generates  action. 

With  this  dual  concept  Emerson  overtly  modified  the  construct  of  his  original  essay  on  Nature  in  a 
fashion  consistent  with  the  evolutionary  modification  of  that  construct  as  it  had  emerged  in  the  intervening 
essays.    The  schema  of  this  one  is  consistent  with  that  of  "The  Poet"  and  "Experience"  and  with  the  final 
four  of  the  first  series.    Like  the  distinction  between  "intellect  constructive"  and  "intellect  receptive,"  the 
concept  of  nature  "passive"  and  "efficient"  permitted  Emerson  to  distinguish  the  mental  dimension  of  Nature 
from  its  physical  manifestation  and  yet  preserve  the  unity  of  the  whole.    By  insisting  that  Nature  generates  ex- 
cess energy  at  the  same  time  that  it  preserves  the  harmony  and  symmetry  of  the  whole,  Emerson  extended 
his  law  of  compensation  and  affirmed  in  other  terms  the  distinction  between  "thinking"  and  "acting"  as  enun- 
ciated in  " Self- Reliance . "    By  conceiving  two  separate  spheres  of  Nature,  he  could  account  for  the  inade- 
quacies encountered  in  the  daily  world- -for  those  shortcomings  in  human  experience.    This  is  the  sphere 
of  Nature  wherein  is  "something  mocking,  something  that  leads  us  on  and  on,  but  arrives  nowhere;  keeps 
no  faith  with  us"  (W,  III,  190).    When  he  observed  that  "we  are  encamped  in  nature,  not  domesticated,  "  he 
spoke  of  this  sphere. 

The  metaphoric  analogy  to  these  "deceits  in  life"  is  in  the  "face  of  external  nature" --the  landscape. 
In  a  revealing  passage  he  commented:    "I  have  seen  the  softness  and  beauty  of  the  summer  clouds  floating 


35 

feathery  overhead,  enjoying,  as  it  seemed,  their  height  and  privilege  of  motion,  whilst  yet  they  appeared 
not  so  much  the  drapery  of  this  place  and  hour,  as  forelooking  to  some  pavilions  and  gardens  of  festivity 
beyond.    It  is  an  odd  jealousy,  but  the  poet  finds  himself  not  near  enough  to  his  object.    The  pine-tree,  the 
river,  the  bank  of  flowers  before  him  does  not  seem  to  be  nature.    Nature  is  still  elsewhere"  (W,  III,   192). 
This  frustration,  which  even  the  poet  feels,  could  lead  to  suspicion  rather  than  acceptance  of  the  fact  that 
Nature  cannot  be  "rashly  explained,  "  that  "her  secret  is  untold."    Emerson  now  suggested  that  we  cannot 
deal  with  Nature  as  we  deal  with  persons .    The  relationship  with  it  was  not  to  be  defined  solely  in  terms  of 
what  happens  to  us  in  our  daily  existence.    That  approach  can  be  discouraging  or  disheartening,  the  result 
of  "looking  too  much  at  one  condition  of  nature,  namely,  Motion"  (W,  III,   194).    For  inherent  in  every  ac- 
tion are  the  "innate  universal  laws"  which,  "while  they  exist  in  the  mind  as  ideas,  stand  around  us  in  nature 
forever  embodied,  a  present  sanity  to  expose  and  cure  the  insanity  of  men"  (W,  III,   195).    This  is  the  com- 
pensation of  Rest  or  Identity . 

Thus  man  traverses  "the  whole  scale  of  being,  from  the  centre  to  the  poles  of  nature."    In  a  vivid 
metaphor  which  develops  the  images  of  the  motto  he  launched  his  peroration:    "Here  is  no  ruin,  no  discon- 
tinuity, no  spent  ball.    The  divine  circulations  never  rest  nor  linger.    Nature  is  the  incarnation  of  a  thought, 
and  turns  to  a  thought  again,  as  ice  becomes  water  and  gas.    The  world  is  mind  precipitated,  and  the  vola- 
tile essence  is  forever  escaping  again  into  the  state  of  free  thought"  (W,  III,   196).     The  vividness  of  the 
image  crystallizes  the  dual  spheres  of  nature.    The  movement,  the  flowing,  is  in  both  directions,  from  rest 
to  motion,  then  back  to  rest.    Nature  passive  affirms  Nature  Efficient  and  vice  versa.    In  a  brief  but  very 
cryptic  assertion  he  affirmed  the  importance  of  man  to  this  concept  of  Nature,  but  in  a  way  rather  different 
from  his  exultant  conclusion  to  his  volume  of  1836:    "Man  imprisoned,  man  crystallized,  man  vegetative, 
speaks  to  man  impersonated."    The  first  three  conditions  are  those  of  the  sphere  of  motion;  the  latter  of 
man  embodied  in  the  sphere  of  rest.    In  the  earlier  essay  Emerson  had  affirmed  Nature  by  affirming  Man. 
Here  he  delineated  the  various  roles  of  Man  and  saw  some  aspects  of  Nature  suffusing  these  separate 
spheres.    Since  the  "whole  and  the  particle"  are  equal  channels  of  "that  power"  which  energizes  Nature, 
there  is  no  secondary,  subordinate  condition  here  in  quantitative  terms --the  whole  is  not  greater  than  the 
particle.    But  the  final  sentences  suggest  a  qualitative  distinction  that  preserves  the  transcendental,  hier- 
archical character  of  the  construct:    "Every  moment  instructs,  and  every  object;  for  wisdom  is  infused  in- 
to every  form.    It  has  been  poured  into  us  as  blood;  it  convulsed  us  as  pain;  it  slid  into  us  as  pleasure;  it 
enveloped  us  in  dull  melancholy  days,  or  in  days  of  cheerful  labor;  we  did  not  guess  its  essence  until  after 
a  longtime"  (W,  III,   196). 


The  intuitive  insight  transcends  the  immediate  experience,  giving  it  depth  and  meaning.    In  1841, 
Emerson  recorded  in  his  Dialling  notebook  a  trip  to  Walden  Pond  in  which  he  charged  nature  with  emptiness 
"That  was  the  expression  of  the  wide  amphitheatre  to  the  blank  eye.    It  seemed  as  if  the  curtain  should 
every  moment  rise  &  this  maternal  cluck  which  filled  the  groves  &  all  this  ado  &  flutter  of  small  creatures 
give  place  to  what  is  truly  great.    But  thus  is  the  particular  &  near  ever    standing  in  eternal  contrast  to 
the  grand  horizon  of  sun  &  stars  that  shuts  down  or  shuts  never  down  above  it"  (JMN,  VIII,  494-495).    His 
response  was  strongly  ambiguous  here  but  contained  echoes  of  the  familiar  transcendental  solution  that  is 
spelled  out  with  more  precise,  if  somewhat  unfamiliar,  images  in  "Nature."    Clearly  the  rethinking  of 
man'  s  relation  to  the  globe  was  provoked  by  the  sobering  experience  of  his  son'  s  death.    On  the  one  side 
was  the  emptiness  which  this  passage  records ,  but  on  the  other  was  the  insight  displayed  more  hopefully 
three  pages  earlier  in  the  same  journal.    "I  may  say  without  violating  any  man'  s  sense  of  probability  that 
the  only  way  into  nature  is  to  enact  our  insight.    Instantly  we  are  higher  poets,   &  not  as  before  can  vary 
our  expression  of  one  law,  but  can  speak  a  deeper  law"  (JMN,  VIII,  494).    This  latter  passage  was  in  part 
used  in  "The  Method  of  Nature"  (1841)  but  it  was  not  until  "Nature"  three  years  later  that  the  crucible  of 
experience  would  crystallize  the  exact  relationship  of  this  insight  to  the  other  sphere  of  Nature  with  which 
he  had  not  previously  reckoned  in  its  entirety.    With  that  relation  of  Nature  passive  to  Nature  Efficient  de- 
fined, he  was  able  in  subsequent  essays  to  explore  the  area  of  man's  daily  concerns,  turning  on  it  the 
penetrating  gaze  of  the  Poet. 

Western  Washington  State  College 


American  Transcendental  Quarterly 
journal  of  new  england  writers 

DRAWER    1080 
HARTFORD.    CONNECTICUT     06101 


#14    SUPPLEMENT  2 


S? 


rU-^G 


19^' 


lowell  the  Patriot. 
To  many  of  our  readers  the  news  of  tho 
death  of  James  Rusaall  Lowell  will  come 
like  a  physical  blow.  There  was  in  his 
social  speech  and  writing  such  an  exube- 
rance of  personality,  such  a  suggestion  of 
treasures  of  wit  and  humor  undrawn  upon, 
as  those  who  knew  the  man  find  it  hard  to 
connect  with  the  thought  of  annihilation. 
But  for  the  public  his  works  remain.  Had 
ho  lived,  they  might  have  been  added  to, 
but  we  are  not  deprived  of  them  by 
his  death.  They  have  taken  their  place, 
perhaps  among  the  classics  of  our  race,  cer- 
tainly among  the  classics  of  our  nation. 
They  were  pmoog  the  first  to  answer  the 
question,  Who  reads  an  American  book? 
and  their  author's  name  will  be  among  those 
repeated  by  posterity  In  answer  to  the  ques- 
tion, What  has  America  given  to  the  world? 

The  present  Is  not  the  time,  nor  is  this  the 
place,  for  a  discriminating  estimate  of  Mr. 
Lowell  as  a  poet  or  as  a  man  of  letters.  As 
we  have  said,  his  works  in  those  directions 
will  be  as  much  the  possession  of  future 
generations  as  of  our  own.  But  we  cannot 
forbear  dwelling  upon  an  aspect  of  his  cha- 
racter that  was  to  a  certain  extent  independ- 
ent of  his  literary  gifts,  and  which  was,  there- 
fore, peculiarly  impressive  to  the  men  of  his 
own  day.  He  was  in  the  loftiest  sense 
Of  the  word  a  patriot.  The  expression 
"the  Father  of  his  Country  "  is  perhaps  com 
mouly  used  without  anv  r^ry  clear  spp:e 
•hension  of  its  meaning,  but  it  is  evident  that 
the  emotions  of  a  Washington  in  looking 
upon  the  future  of  the  nation  whose  leader 
he  has  been,  are  not  unlike  those  felt  by  a 
father  in  contemplating  the  future  of  his 
son.-  Mr.  Lowell's  patriotism  was  Imbued 
with  a  similar  feeling.  He  loved  his  country; 
he  rejoiced  in  her  strength,  in  her  great- 
ness, in  her  progress,  and  in  her  promise. 
But  it  was  in  her  strength  when  rightly 
used,  in  her  greatness  and  progress  in  spi- 
ritual as  well  as  in  material  things,  in  her 
promise  of  noble  and  honorable  attainment, 
that  he  rejoiced.  The  maxim,  "  My  coun- 
try, right  or  wrong,"  was  not  to  him  a  pa- 
triotic maxim,  but  the  appeal  of  the  dema- 
gogue to  that  contemptible  travesty  of  pa- 
triotism, tho  chauvinism  of  the  mob. 

Hence  we  find  him  at  the  time  of  the 
Mexican  war — the  time  of  that  other  maxim, 
"My  country,  however  bounded"— putting 
forth  all  his  wonderful  powers  in  opposition 
to  the  policy  of  our  Government.  Wc  were 
playing  the  part  of  a  bully  towards  Mexico, 
and  that,  too,  not  for  the  aggrandizement  of 
the  nation,  but  for  that  of  the  slave  power. 
That  it  was  the  duty  of  a  patriot  to  support 
his  country  in  such  enterprises  was  'not  a 
part  of  Mr.  Lowell's  creed,  and 
the  "Biglow  Papers,"  with  their  unrivalled 
wealth  of  sarcasm  and  common  sense,  of 
caustic  contempt  and  playful  humor,  of  ap- 
peals to  reason  and  to  conscience,  were  pro- 


duced. It  is  a  beautiful  and  honorable 
thing  to  die  for  one's  country  in  a  good 
cause;  but  it  is  not  less  noble  to  with- 
stand her  if  the  cause  is  bad.  To  do  this  is 
tho  part  of  the  highest  courage  and  of  the 
purest  patriotism. 

The  civil  war  showed  that  Mr.  Lowell 
could  guide  and  stimulate  true  patriotism 
with  words  as  lofty  and  strong  and  wise  as 
those  with  which  he  had  repressed  tho  falso. 
ITad  tho  secession  of  the  Southern  State* 
been  peaceable,  it  might  not  have  been  easy 
to  determine  the  duty  of  a  patriot.  But  the 
wanton  attack  upon  the  flag  of  the  Union 
left  no  room  for  doubt,  and  tho  righteous- 
ness of  the  cause  stirred  the  profoundest 
depths  of  Mr.  Lowell's  heart  and  call- 
ed forth  the  noblest  efforts  of  his 
g  nius.  There  was  no  falseness  or  im- 
purity in  the  notes  of  his  song;  it  was  always 
the  spiritual,  the  ideal  that  he  exalted  in 
patriotism.  He  cried  "with  clenched  hands 
and  passionate  pain,"  but  it  was  Truth  that 
he  exalted,  in  strife  and  bloodshed  and 
deatb,  Truth  that  our  brothers  found, 

Where  all  may  hope  to  find, 

Not  In  the  ashes  of  tho  burnt-out  mind 
But  beautiful,  with   danger's    sweetness  round  her. 

Wh"re  faith   made  whole  with  deed 

Breathes  Its  nwckenlng  breath 

Into  the  Ilfeleis   creed, 

Thoy  saw  her  plnr.ied  and  mailed, 

With   Kweet,   stern   face  unrolled, 
And  all  repaying  eyes,  look  proud  on  taem   tnd'ath. 

Thus  he  taught 

That  death  withlu    (ho  sulphurous  h05tl!o   l!nc» 
In  the  meio  wreck  of  i.o'dy   pltrhr  I  dtsl(;ri3. 
Plucks  heart's  ea-e  niirl   not   ruo. 

Thus  he  sang,  in  words  addressed  to  a 
brother  poet,  of  faith  to  things  unseen, 

Of  freedom's  birthright  given  tons  In  trust; 
And  words  or  doughty  cheer  he  spoke  between, 

That  mad"  nil  earthly  fortune  s  'em  as  dust, 
Matched  with  that  duty,  Ol  <  as  Time  and  now. 
Of  belufj  brave  and  true. 

And  when  it  was  nil  over,  and  tho  victory 
gloriously  won,  ho  voiced  the  minjrlcd  joy 
and  sorrow  of  hi s  countrymen,  tbtir  chas- 
tened grief  and  grave  exultation,  In  i 
irlumpiial  hymn  that  was  a  very  concentra/ 
tion  of  patriotism  : 

Eow  down,  dear  Land,  for  thon  hast  found  release I 
Thy  God,   In  the?.'  distempered  days, 
•    Hath  taught  thee  Hie  snre  wis  !om  of  His  way*. 
And   through  thine  enemies  hath  wrought  thy  peace! 

Eow  down  In  praw-r  rmd  praise! 
No  poorest  In   thy  border;  but  may  now 
Lift  to  the  Juster  f  k  ea  a  man's  enfranchised  brow, 
O  Beautiful  !  my  Country  I   ours  once  mora! 
Smoothing  thy  gold  of  war-dishevelled  hair 
O'er  such  sweet  brows  as  nover  other  wore. 

And   letting  thy  set  lips. 

Freed   from    .'rith'!  pale  ellipse. 
The  rosy  edges    >f  thel.-  smile  lay  bare, 
What  words  divine  of  lover  or  of  pool 
Could  tell  our  love  and  make  thee  know  it. 
Among  the  Nations  bright  beyond  compare! 

What  were  o.r  lives   aitbout  thee? 

What  nil  our  lives  to  savo  thee? 

We  rrck  not  ivhat  v*e  gave  thee; 

Wc  will  not    Ian  to  doubt  the*. 
But  ask  whatever  else,  and  we  will  dara! 

It  would  be  but  a  half  recognition  of  Mr. 

Lowell's  patriotism  did  rve  connect  it  only 

with  our  wars.     There  came  a  time  when 

the  leaders  of  the   nation    that  had  poured, 


forth  its  blood  so  generously  for  an  Idea, 
fell  to  doubting  If  it  would  keep  Its  pro- 
mises to  pay  money,  and  when  they  were 
ready  to  drag  the  honor  that  had  been  so 
nobly  exalted  through  the  mire  of  repudia- 
tion. Then  again  Mr.  Lowell's  voice  rang 
out  In  scornful  rebuke  of  this  ignoble  weak* 
ness: 

Poured  our  young  martyrs  their  high-hearted  blood 
That  we  might  trample  to  congenial  mod 
The  toll  with  such  a  legacy  sublimed? 

And  when  his  country  once  more  turned 
from  the  path  of  dishonor,  none  of  her  chil- 
dren rejoiced  more  in.  her  virtue.  It  was 
not  from  any  love  for  controversy  or  cap- 
tious criticism  that  htn  heart  was  fed  with 
wrath,  and  that  he  felt  that  he  must  twial 
his 

little  gift  of  word* 
Into  a>  scourge  of  rough  and  knotted  cordj 
Unmusical,  that  whistle  as  they  swing 
To  leave  on  shameless  barks  their  purple  sting. 

He  loved  the  pleasures  of  retreat,  to  dream 
"in  happy  commune  with*  the  untainted 
brooks,"  or  by  the  fire  that  "  whispei  ed I  its 
domestic  joy,"  where.  "  walled  with  books," 
he  heard  not  "the  world's  unmeaning  noise." 
Nor  must  It  be  denied  that  he  loved  "to sit, 
well-dined,"  with  those  in  other  lands  ae 
well  as  this  that  were  congenial.  Bnt  the 
"  Puritan  drop  "  would  not  be  quiet  in  hi?" 
veins  when  bis  country  was  threatened  with 
disgrace,  and  he  turned  from  no  duty  ten 
wards  lief  because  it  was  distasteful  to  him- 
self.  He  could  not  love  his  country  did  he1 
not  loathe  her  shame. 

For  never  land  long  lease  of  empire  woa 

Whoso  sons  sate  silent  wheu  base  deed;  were  done. 

Once  more  Mr.  Lowell  was  called  upon  to 
give  proof  of  his  patriotism,  when  the  cor- 
rupt  leaders  of  a  degenerate  party  made  the 
insolent  claim  that  those  who  had  acted' 
with  them  for  noble  ends  must  follow  them 
In  their  dirty  struggle  for  the  gains  of  office. 
To  break  with  associations  that  had  a  sa< 
credness  far  above  that  of  ordinary  party 
ties  was  a  cruel  requirement  of  duty;  but 
the  course  of  a  patriot  was  clear  and  Mr. 
Lowell  did  not  falter.  And  as  he  had  honor- 
ed his  country  at  home,  so  he  brought  honor 
to  her  abroad,  for  he  could  go  nowhere; 
that  men  did  not  think  better  of  a 
country  that  could  produce  such  men. 
It  seems  now  as  if  our  loss  were  irreparable. 
As  we  listen  to  the  tawdry  rant  of  pension* 
seeking  mercenaries,  and  as  Die  fhsdow  of 
financial  dishonor  onco  more  darkens  our 
future,  a  feeling  of  despair  comes  over  us 
at  the  dearth  of  counsels  that  are  at  once 
good  and  strong,  at  the  loss  of  that 
"wider  and  wiser  humanity"  that  waa 
so  finely  compounded  with  enthusiasm 
Into  patriotism.  But  such  patriotism  is  not 
sterile,  and  he  himself  won!!  have  fold  us' 
that  in  the  time  of  our  need  the  providence 
of  God  would  raise  us  up  leaders.  In  hfe 
own  up'fftiucrTvoriis, 

M  hj  mnk<   wr  ruo.in 
For  loss  thai  doth  enrich  us  yet 


fVitS  up»  r.rd  yearning!  of  regret  > 
Bleslrer  thnn  nnmossed  stone 
Cur  llres  wore  but  for  this  Immortal  cats 
Of  nustlHed  tariffing  and  Inspiring  pain! 

At  ibri  11*  of  lone  bu«hPd  Cone 
Lire  In  tho  vlnl,  so  our  nouln  (crow  fine 
With  keen  vibrations  from  the  touch  (Urine 
Of  noble  natures  gone. 

H  S  g»/«*.wi  Poet  ** 


Mr.  Lowell's  interest  In  public  affairs  was 
says  George  William  Curtis  in  the  current  num 
ber  of  Harper's  AVeckb.  that  of  a  clear-sighted 
man  who  knew  history  and  other  nations,  and 
had  the  strongest  laith  in  a  government  based 
upon  popular  intelligence.  The  country  never 
sent  abroad  in  tho  person  of  its  minist»r  a 
better  American.  Sj  nin  and  England  saw  in 
him  not  only  a  man  v.'ho,  by  his  literary  frenhis, 
had  conforred  lienor  rnrm  bis  country,  b-.:  who 
rhowed  that  the  fin.  -.1  quality  of  ioanuood,  a 
wholesome,  cox>.mort<ense.  thoroughly  trained 
pnd  amply  equipped,  was  distinctively 
Amotioan.  His  patriotism  was  not  the  brag 
of  conceit  nor  tl  t  lindness  of  ignnrauco, 
an't  the  ^nicrc,  oi  th<  hope  an''  faith  ofits 
notilust  ciiiid.en  «wi'>  never  depicted  with 
iuorc  sean'iiiii;  ij-shjhl  than  in  his  plea  for 
demor i;.r...-  spoKcn  at  -a  mechanics'  institute 
while  ho  vas  ininist'.-r  in  England;  nor  vere 
the  manly  independence  and  courtesy  of  the 
».iarriean  character  ever  more  finely  illustrated 
than  in  his  essaj  upon  "a  certain  condescension 
in  i  :«:2iiers.'  fi  \  ..s  a  patriotism  which  did 
i  ••.  admit  that  itrn.srance  and  conceit  and 
blaiant  self-a!.-erii(  ,•  arc  •  octiliarly  American, 
nor  insist  that  ev-,  \  .l.irn;  American  wa>  for 
that  reason  hotter  thr.n  everything  which  was 
|  not  American.  Ii  '  . is  never  unmindful  that 
thereof,  of  our  political  system  and  of  our  na- 
tional character  was  not  aboriginally  American, 
nor  diti  it.  deny  to  the  traditions  of  an  olriercivi- 
li  ation  and  to  the  lifo  of  older  nations  a  charm 
distinctively  their  nrrn.  Our  literature  has 
no  work  moie  issentially  American  than  the 
"Biglow  Papers,"  not,  only  in  the  dialect  torm, 
but  in  its  dramatic  poitraiture  of  the  popular 
cor.si  icneo  of  >"e\v  Enrrlnnd,  of  Lincoln's  "plain 
people"  >\  ho  liavi  fi  von  the  distinctive  impulse 
to  \1nerir-1n  civilisation,  anil  from  whose  vir- 
tr.es  ha- largely  sprung  the  American  cltarae. 
tt  i  It  is  ivorth  while  to  laystress  upon  tliis 
final'.ly  cf  Mr  t  ..  .  .•'!,  bei  ausc  it  is  throne  to 
which  n.-;eh  ■■'  l.i  peculiar  influence  is  due. 
yet 'which;  nirer  ivcrlookodor  denied.  Thai 
intlui  :»•>  ,|  raniT  fr  ■m  the  humanity  of  his  ■.:■-  n 
ius.  his  ;y-iiorous  r.vmpathy  with  noble  a^pi ra- 
tion and  i-ndi  :iv(ir,  his  political  indopendenoo 
and  hisf-'eadlasi  tidelity  to  tho  high  ideal*  of 
his  yon!':. 


TRIBUTES  TO  H  Jf  ELL 


WORDS      OF      AFFECT^: 
ENGLAND     AND     A 


ION       FROM 
JMERICA. 


A  Mcssajro    from    Tennyi      ton-London 
l»ross    Opinions— Grief      [of  AVhlttlcr 

anil    Ifolmcs. 


London,  August  13.— The  T* 
death  of  Mr.  Lowell   is  probat 
and   widely   felt  in   England  t 
that  of  any  other  American,  or, 
man    not    a    follow-countrymi 
doath   there   passes   into   blstof, 
m.irknblo  mind,    whose  roputat 
with   liiiit.-.      Corrupt   politlclai 
but  he  goes  to  the  grnve  mourn* 
best  in  America  and  amid  the  h< 
and  admiration  of  England." 


tnes  says:  "  The 
>ly  more  keenly 
ifaan  would  be 
.  Indeed,  of  any 
in.  With  bis 
y  a  really  re- 
ion  will  grow 
la  bated  him, 
d  by  all  tlmtis 
sartfelt  regard 


6 

The  Standard  nays:  "  Ameri«  )a  may  claim 
tho  distinction  of  his  blrlb,  but'  his  fame  be- 
longs to  tho  wider  republio  spea  king  the  Eng- 
lish tongue." 

Tho  Iktily  News  *ays:  "Mr.  Li  Jwell  will  be 
lamented  in  England  not  less  thai  n  in  America, 
He  was  ever  a  fighter  and  aTWayf  *  on  the  side 
of  truth,  honesty,  justice,  free  dom,  mercy, 
and  peace."  ' 

All  the  other  liOndon  mornln  »  newspapers 
contain  himilar  comments  and  ,  \g  obituary 
notices. 

Mr.  Walter  liexant,  the  well-H  m  novelist 

and  Kirst  Chairman  of  the  Eieot  «  Commit- 
tee of  the  Incorporated  Soclet;  jf  Authors, 
has  nent  a  telegram  from  Dartmo«  "or,  in  which, 
referring  to  tho  t.iUh  of  Mr.  Lov  rell,  he  says: 
•'  Tho  English  Authors'  Society  se,  nds  its  deep- 
est regrets  and  sympathy  with  A  mericans  on 
the  death  of  that  great  writer,  its  friend, 
James  Rust-ell  Lowell." 

Many  telegrams  from  Engllshr,  uen  promi- 
nent i»  litorary,  dramatic,  and  othi  8r  walks  of 
lifo  are  being  received  in  this  city  r  expressing 
deep  regret  at  thedeath  of  Mr.  Low«  jU.  Among 
tho  teh  grams  received  this  mornii  >g  was  one 
from  Tennyson,  who  has  recently  I  eturned  to 
his  residence  at  Aid  worth,  near  1  Jaileioere, 
from  his  summer  home  at  Freshwa  ter,  Isle  of 
Wight.  The  aped  English  poet  '  vsp  a  close 
friend  of  .Mr.  Loweli,  and  the  latter's  death  has 
affected  him  deeply.  Lord  Tennyson's  mes- 
sage says  : 

"England  and  America  will  mourn  Mr. 
Lowell's  death.  They  loved  him  am  1  he  loved 
them.  Pruy  express  for  myself  and  mlno  our 
sincerest  sympathy  with  Mr.  Lowell'.;    f/.cr.ily. 

••  Tk.nn  tson." 
Henry  Irving,  in  a  lettor  received  to-day  in 
this  city,  says,  in  roferenoe  to  Mr.  L<>  wall's 
death  :  "I,  in  common  with  all  End  lisimien, 
lament  the  Ions  of  one  we  so  loved  aud 
honored." 

All  the  afternoon  papers  of  this  city  and  the 
pnm-rs  published   in  the  provinces  hp^ve  long 

u.:ivrr 
sr.1    X|  ,.ns  of  admiration  asd  reftr'ton  thii 

side  of  the  ocean  bear  eloquent  leitimony  to 
the  reality  of  the  entente  between  'the  two 
great  sections  of  the  English-speak;ing  race, 
which  it  was  ODe  of  tbeobjocts  of  Mr.  Lowell's 
lifeto  promote.  His  place  is  with  Carlylonnd 
Husk  in.  What  these  man  have  dono  in  prose 
to  kindle  faith,  stimulate  conscience,  and 
direct  tho  energies  of  their  time,  Mr,  Lowell 
has  done  in  his  prophetic  verse." 

Mr.  Edmund  William  Gosse,  who  in  "8S4-'S5 
dclivcrod  tho  "  Lowell  Lectures  "  in  6ever.il 
cities  of  the  United  Statee,  has  a  k  r.g  article 
in  the  .Sf  James's  Gazette  in  which  he  speaks 
lovingly  cf  his  dead  friend.  In  concluding  his 
article,  bo  says:  "  It  is  too  soon  to  attempt  a 
flnnl  estimate  of  his  place  in  history.  We 
think  to-day  of  his  stainless  record,  his  lofty 
intelligence,  and  his  lifelong  devotion  to  let- 
ters. America  mourns  him  as  ene  of  ber  fore- 
most citizens.  We,  to  whom  America  lent 
him  for  a  time,  may  stand  by  hor  side  and 
reverently  partake  of  her  sorrow." 

1'oston,  August  13.— Dr.  Oliver  Wendell 
Homes  is  much  affected  by  the  death  of  bis 
life-long  friend  James  Russell  Lowell,  al- 
though, as  be  fays,  he  has  known  it  was  com- 
ing a  long  time.  He  declines,  liowevor,  to 
talk  on  the  subject  for  publication  at  this  time. 
JCKWnvntYPORT,    Mass.,    Augu        IS. — John 


Qroenlnaf  WhiUier,  wbo  has   b>  forced   to 

return  from  the  mountains  b"  J  aalth,  wu 

much  shocked  to  hear  of  Mr4V  'll's  death. 

V  Too  bod,  too  bad,"  he  sale*  '**  I  indeed  a 

_r*»»tt    loss   to    Vmerican* 

world." 


f*L   -o    nd  to  the 


KoitTriAMrrON,  Mass.,  Augu.  t  13.— George 
W.  Cable,  tbe  novelist,  speaking  of  Mr. 
Lowell,  said:  "Mr.  Lowell  was  one  of  those 
American  writers  who  joins  tbe  strongest  im- 
pulses of  national  citizenship  with  the  world'* 
citizenship,  and  the  highest  loyalty  to  the 
highest  art.  What  he  wrote  he  was — and 
much  more.  He  stands  this  test  c"  greatness, 
that  thore  is  no  falling  off  when  we  turn  to 
the  man  and  bis  life  from  the  au'  hor  and  his 
books."  i 

Noivrn  Cohway,  N.  H.,  August  13. — Wm. 
l">enn  Howells,  when  informed  of  Mr.  Lowell's 
death,  was  deeply  affected.  He  declined  to 
voice  his  estimate  of  Mr.  Lowell  as  a  poet  and 
a  man.  "  He  was  too  near  and  itoo  dear  to 
me,"  he  said,  "  for  me  to  say  anything  upon 
the  subject  at  present.  His  death  la  a  national 
calamity.  Postibly  I  shall  write  an  article 
upon  him  myself,  and  prefer  that  what  I  have 
to  say  should  be  given  in  my  own  words." 

Rah  Hariior,  Me.,  August  13  —  Secretary 
Blaine,  when  informed  of  the  death  of  James 
Russell  Lowell,  expressed  his  deepettt  sympa- 
thy at  tho  sad  news.  When  asked  if  he  would 
not  make  some  statement  of  Mr.  Lowell's  ca- 
reer as  a  diplomatist,  he  declined  to  <de  so. 

JAMES    RUSSELL   LOWELL." 


Some  Recollections  of  Him  by   George 
Tlclcnor  Curtis. 


Tho  death  of  James  Russell  Lowell  has' 
awakened  In  mo  a  long  train  of  recollections. 
I  knew  him  when  he  was  a  little  boy.  He 
wns  ten  years  old  and  I  was  slxteon  when,  in 
1827-8  v.- o  both  attended  as  day  pupils  the 
'.,o,i  .... -.-•;-'.>5ol  of  Air.  William  Welis  in 
'..  .     which  was  ntarly  opposite  to  the 

ho  ihi   .tev.  Dr.  Lowell,  James's  father. 

In  ..  it  r.ov.so  James  "/as  born,  and  he  had 
'..  .i-  zood  fortune  to  live  in  It  all  his  life, 
ercciip  >  l.on  ho  was  abroad.  Ilia  first  wifo, 
Mart.1  '  /idle,  of  Watertown,  was  my  second 
cousin  6'.'  was  a  most  intellectual  person, 
of  ni'^. lly  xpirituelle  nature,  and  her  influ- 
■:ice  i:>.  developing  in  him  a  propensity  to 
l.to.r.r.  pursuits  was  very  great.  Her  con- 
.s;;.  ..:-,  -vas  extremely  delicate,  and  she 
died  .-;..-ly,  leaviug  i.  daughter,  hor  only 
child,  zxnvr  Mrs.  Burnett.       '  , 

i     oniaiued  at  Mr.  Wells's  school   c?iy  r,m? 


In    August,   1823,  I  entered  1: 


arvard 
as    wo 


College,   leaving    "Jimmy    Lowell,"  "Vcv,, 
called   him,   still   at  tho  school.     Mr,  we'18 
was  an  Englishman,  married  to  a  IK?  w 
was  a  member  of  the  Bost  family  in.•B08ton., 
and  thoy  had  three  r: own-up  daugtters  2 
two    voungcr  sons.     Mr.   Wells   wr*    a  llno' 
Classical  scholar,  and  a  s'ern  schoor"    ,  or  ot 
tho  old-fashioned  English  type.    l-°  , ,     ,ayf? 
heard  a  recitation  with  tho  book  P.  ;'ls  'eIt 
hand      :<:  a  rattan  in.  his  right,  and  V  tho  b?y 
made    a   /t.lso   quantity  or   did  nck  k"ow  tho 
meaning  jf  a  word  down  camo  ths  ra,itan  on 
hisheaa.     But  this  chastisemen' w;ls  nfl,\'e,^ 
administered  to  mo  or  to  "Jimr?y  ^°.wel1- 
Xot  to  mo  he.  ausc  .1  was  too  ola  Ior  "'  ana 
not  to  niin  because  he  was  too  yf'un^'aoo       i 

E  graduated  from  Harvard  ln.  18<5Z>  8lJ 
years,  before  Lowell.  I  did  no'  know  m.u°h 
about  ;.:m  until  after  he  becam'  enRaK",a  t0 
my  cousin,  Miss  White.  It  wl8  a  10.n8  en" 
gngemer.t,  for  James  hnd  no  very  fooa  pros" 
pent  of    being  established   in    D-1    -ness   ns   a 


law  vor.  Miss  w  hite's  lather  a?11,.,8"111"  °' 
Lowell's  own  relatives  rcRardoc  hl„  own 
young  man  who  would  not  mak  know  hls 
win  i;.  "he  world.       They  did  not  ,    with 

genius,  but  bis  Maria  did  know  it  . ,.        ,   . 
tlu  iidolltv  of  a  trno  woman  she  b<      .  „boll, 
hi-j  Suture.     I  used  to  bear  a  good  d  h  whom 
them  in  a  rirclo  of  young  people    wl  . 

I  was  Intimate,  but  who  wnro  yonnA  , 

myself.  Lowell  had  a  kinsman  in  Bos1™  ^ 
might  hiva  promoted   his  prospocts  Qok  liig 


tionod, 


Ear;   tmt  this  cousin  of  his   always  sh 
head  when  James's  name  was   mon 
and    if  anyone  bad  predicted  James's  ^"v^en 
in  his  presence,  this  cousin  would  h-™. 
utterly    incredulous.      But    this    Kentlmuon 
di<  d  before  tho  young  poot  had  gained  „weli 
reputation.      I  am   not  aware  that  L     one 
owed   his   Miccess  in  any  decree   to  a  ,;tur 
but  himself;  still,  1  think  ho  was  not  >  " 
ally  an  industrious  man.       Ho   had,  I  1.     J ' 
a  propensity  to  idleness,  whien  be  bra'.     ^ 
overcame.      Having  witnessed  the  who.  M*j_ 
his  career,  I  think  I  oan  soy  that  the    .      " 
mate  of  it  given  by  Canon  Farrar  is  per 
ly  Just.  rvlce 

Undoubtedly  tho  greatost  public  se.  d  in 
that  Mr.  Lowoll  ever  rendered  consiste    tj 
what    he    did    to   promote   and   cemont 
friendship  botween  tho  Government  and  "    j 
plo  ot  Great  Britain  and  the  Government".     , 
po<n)lo  of  the  United  States.    We  have 
other  ministors  to  England  who  have  do  itin<j 
good  deal  of  this  useful  and  benotlcont      t 
of  work.     But  Lowell  was  in   England    ' 
peculiar  time,  a  time   when  it  was   nocet  Q0V^ 
ihat   t.uo   work   should  bo  undertaken  a.  ...J 
because  the  unpleasant  feelings   engend        t  - 
hy  our  Civil  "War  wore  not  entirely  worn  ^  ,  * 
For  this  task  Lowell  was  eminently  fitte  .  ftnd 
every  way.    His  genial  manners,  his  tact  _  ^ 
his  varied  accomplishments  enabled  ht  xjew 
All  with  great  success  a  difficult  post,     f 
York  Sun.  ' 


the  emotions  of  a  Washington  in  looking 
upon  the  future  of  the  nation  whose  leader 
he  has  been,  are  not  unlike  those  foil  by  a 
father  in  contemplating  the  futui  J  of  his 
son.  Mr.  Lowell's  patriotism  w.s  Imbued 
with  a  similar  feeling.  He  loved  his  eountry; 
be  rejoiced  in  her  strength,  in  her  great- 
ness, in  her  progress,  and  in  her  promise. 
But  it  was  In  her  strength  wnen  rightly 
used,  In  her  greatness  and  progress  in  spi- 
ritual as  well  as  In  material  things,  in  her 
promise  of  noble  and  honorable  attainment, 
that  he  rejoiced.  The  maxim,  "  My  coun- 
try, right  or  wrong,"  was  not  to  him  a  pa- 
triotic maxim,  but  the  appeal  of  the  dema- 


LOWELL  THE  PATRIOT 
To  many  of  our  readers  the  news  of  (he 
death  of  James  Russell  Lowell  has  come 
like  a  physical  blow.  There  was  in  his 
social  speech  and  writing  such  an  exube- 
rance of  personality,  such  a  suggestion  of 
treasures  of  wit  and  humor  undrawn  upon, 
as  those  who  knew  the  man  find  it  hard  to 
connect  with  the  thought  of  annihilation. 
But  for  the  public  his  works  remain.  Had 
he  lived,  they  might  have  been  added  to, 
but  we  are  not  deprived  of  them  by 
his  death.  They  have  taken  their  place, 
perhaps  among  the  classics  of  our  race,  cer- 
tainly among  the  classics  of  our  nation. 
They  were  among  the  first  to  answer  the 
question.  Who  reads  an  American  book? 
and  their  author's  name  will  be  among  those 
repeated  by  posterity  in  answer  to  the  ques- 
tion. What  has  America  given  to  the  world? 
The  present  is  not  the  time,  nor  is  this  the 
place,  for  a  discriminating  estimate  of  Mr. 
Lowell  as  a  poet  or  as  a  man  of  letters.  As 
we  ha-re  said,  his  works  in  those  capacities 
wiii  be  as  much  the  possession  of  future 
generations  as  of  our  own.  But  we  cannot 
forbear  dwelling  upon  an  aspect  of  his  cha- 
racter that  was  to  a  certain  extent  independ- 
ent of  his  literary  gifts,  and  which  was,  there- 
fore, peculiarly  impressive  to  the  men  of  his 
own  day.  He  was  in  the  loftiest  sense 
of  the  word  a  patriot.  The  expression 
"the  Father  of  his  Country  "  is  perhaps  com- 
mouly  used  without  any  very  clear  appre- 
hension of  its  meaning,  but  it  is  evident  that 


LOWELL'S  LETTERS.- 

Letters  of  James  Russell  Lowell.  Edited  f>y 
Charles  Eliot  Norton.  2  vols.  Harper  & 
Brothers.  1803. 
Mr.  Leslie  Stephen,  writing  of  the  art  of 
biography  in  the  New  Review,  says  that  "let- 
ters, in  the  main,  are  the  one  essential  to  a 
thoroughly  satisfactory  Life."  Certainly  they 
are  a  desideratum,  yet  the  life  of  a  man  of  ac- 
tion is  rarely  revealed  much  through"  bis  let- 
ters; and  in  the  life  of  any  very  busy  man  his 
"epistolary  correspondence,"  as  our  maiden 
aunts  used  to-  call  it,  represents  only  his  odds 
and  ends  of  time.  Thoreau's  remark  about 
keeping  a  diary,  that  "  we  never  can  write  in  a 
diary  what  most  interests  us,  because  writing 
in  the  diary  is  not  what  interests  us,"  is  true  of 
correspondence  also.  Then  thero  is  the  draw- 
back that  the  most  vital  and  essential  letters  of 
a  man's  whole  life— those  representing  the  very 
crises  of  emotion  or  purpose — are  often,  for  that 
very  reason,  unsuited  to  publication,  and  are 
rightly  withheld.  This  very  consideration,  for 
instance,  has  deprived  the  volumes  now  before 
us  of  the  most  intimate  and  important  letters 
which  Lowell  ever  wrote— those  to  his  first  wife 
at  the  most  formative  and  momentous  period 
of  his  whole  career.  All  these  considerations 
show  that  a  hint  t  is  to  be  set  to  that  value  which 
Mr.  Stephen  attributes  to  private  letters  as  an 
element  of  biography.  Nevertheless,  it  may 
truly  be  said  that,  so  far  as  Mr.  Norton's  vol- 
umes represent  Mr.  Lowell,  they  represent  him 
most  delightfully  and  yet  most  fairly,  and 
that  there  has  not,  on  the  whole,  been  a  collec- 
tion of  English  letters  of  such  rich  and  varied 
quality  since  those  of  John  Keats. 

It  is  safe  to  say,  also,  that  few  collections  of 
letters  have  over  had  discreeter  editorial  hand- 
ling. Prof.  Norton  is  a  man  of  strong  convic- 
tions, which  he  sometimes  states  with  such 
vigor  as  to  seem  almost  defiant;  but  he  has 
before  now  proved  himself  to  possess  a  whole- 
some reticence  as  to  himself,  with  a  judicial 
quality  as  commentator.  His  visible  contribu- 
tion to  these  two  large  volumes  covers  but  a 
few  pages,  but  bis  careful  touch  is  felt  every- 
where. In  one  or  two  cases  he  may  have  been 
unguarded  as  to  letters  referring  to  persons 
still  living,  but  this  is  a  thing  very  hard  to 
avoid.  His  frank  revelation  of  Lowell's  earlier 
moods— here  and  there  a  tinge  of  morbidness, 
a  shyness  masking  itself  under  self-assertion, 
a  glimpse  of  over-consciousness — is  simply  ad- 


mirable. Nothing  is  extenuated,  nothing  hold 
up  for  censure.  The  marked  transition,  in 
Lowell,  from  an  impetuous  and  aggressive 
youth  to  a  benign  and  genial  old  age  makes 
itself  apparent  without  formal  elucidation.  It 
would  have  been  very  easy,  for  instance,  to 
omit  the  fact  that,  in  the  storm-and-stress 
period  of  youth,  Lowell  once  put  a  loaded  pis- 
tol to  his  head  but  had  not  the  courage  to  dis- 
charge it  (ii.,  375).  Yet  how  important  this 
fact  in  the  biography  of  Lowell,  nay,  in  the 
history  of  youth  itself!  Doubtless  many  a 
young  man,  just  on  the  threshold  of  mature 
life,  has  toyed  with  just  such  a  wayward  im- 
pulse. The  newspapers  remind  us  from  year 
to  year  that  the  temptation  is  not  always  re 
Risted;  and  what  a  lesson  is  given  in  the  fact 
that  a  career  so  brilliant  and  useful  as  Lowell's 
had  been  preceded  by  just  such  a  morbid  mood. 
With  equal  frankness  is  given  the  brief  letter 

j^51),Announcing  the  fact,  to  him  more  momen- 
tous' than  he  dreamed,  of  his  first  interview  with 
Maria  White.  Hero  we  see  the  door  by  which 
he  escaped  from  this  perilous  period  of  uncer- 
tainty, and,  like  the  hero  of  '  Sartor  Resartus,' 
"immediately  began  to  become  a  man."  His 
subsequent  correspondence  with  this  strong, 
and  most  attractive  woman  would  further  am- 
plify this  revelation,  if  we  could  have  it 
thrown  open  before  us;  and  all  must  respect 
tho  unusual  dignity  and  courage  of  their  only 
daughter  in  withholding  these  letters  from  the 
insatiable  curiosity  of  the  public. 

The  frankness  with  which  these  letters  are 
edited  gives  us  interesting  self-revelations  by 
Lowell  as  to  some  of  his  personal  criticisms 
and  animosities.  In  some  cases,  as  in  his  allu- 
sions to  what  he  wrote  about  Percival,  Tho- 
reau,  and  Masson — all  these  papers  having 
been  a  good  deal  censured  at  the  time  for  un- 
due vehemence  and  acrimony — his  letters  show 
him  quite  unconscious  of  any  6uch  intention. 
The  simple  fact  is,  that  he  grew  up  under  the 
critical  school  of  Poe,  when  men  practised  a 
good  deal  of  slugging,  and  thought  all  fair  in 
the  game.  His  more  celebrated  criticism  on 
Margaret  Fuller,  which  was  perhaps  the  sever- 
est of  these  instances,  receives  a  good  deal  of 
light  in  successive  letters.  It  was  more  cen- 
sured by  dispassionate  critics  than  any  other 
of  these  extreme  statements,  because  it  was  a 
mainly  personal  sarcasm  in  apparent  retalia- 
tion for  a  purely  literary  criticism.  Margaret 
Fuller  had  made  no  personal  allusion,  but  had 
simply  expressed  the  opinion,  in  a  somewhat 
offhand  and  decisive  manner,  "his  verse  sounds 
no  depths."  The  opinion  showed  want  of  dis- 
cernment, though  it  is  to  be  remembered  that 
Lowoll  himself  finally  omitted  from  his  revised 
works  a  large  part  of  the  poems  on  which  it 
was  founded.  It  is  interesting  now  to  find 
that  LoWell  himself  demurred  at  putting  her 
into  the  pillory  of  "  The  Fable  for  Critics,"  on 
the  precise  ground  urged  afterwards  by  others, 
that  it  would  pass  for  a  bit  of  retaliation. 
He  writes  to  his  friend  Briggs  (March  26,  1848) : 
,lI  think  I  shall  say  nothing  about  Margaret 
Fuller  (though  she  offer  so  fair  a  target),  be- 
cause she  has  done  me  an  ill-natured  turn.  I 
shall  revenge  myself  amply  upon  her  by  writ- 
ing better  "  (i.,  128) .  Nothing  could  have  been 
manlier  than  this  last  sentence — bu$,  unluckily, 
he  says  just  after:  " However,  the  temptation 


may  be  too  strong  for  me."  He  yielded  to  it, 
but  still  convinces  himself  (I.  131),  "  with  her 
1  have  been  perfectly  good-humored"  ;  though 
ho  was  unfortunately  too  hard  a  hitter  for  any 
one  else  to  share  this  opinion.  Even  for  him- 
self, this  bit  of  pleasing  self-delusion  did  not 
last  long,  for  he  writes  to  Briggs  once  more 
(October  4),  "If  it  be  not  too  late,  strike  out 
these  four  verses  in  ;  Miranda ' : 

'There  Is  ono  thins  slip  owns  In  her  own  private  right, 
It  Is  native  and  genulne-Miamely,  her  spite  ; 
When  she  acts  as  a  censor,  she  privately  blows 
A  censer  of  vanity  'neath  her  own  nose.'  " 

Unfortunately,  it  was  too  lato  ;  the  verses  re- 
mained in  the  volume  ;  nor  wore  they  struck 
out  in  the  later  editions,  although  Lowell  af- 
terwards erased  most  of  those  relating  to 
Francis  Bowen,  whose  fellow-professor  he  had 
meanwhile  become.  Tho  fact  that,  after  her 
heroic  life  and  death,  he  still  retained  what 
ho  wrote  about  her,  revived  the  discussion 
which  was  then  dying  out;  and  it  is  now  very 
interesting  to  see,  by  his  successive  letters, 
upon  how  narrow  a  chance  the  whole  origin  of 
the  feud  depended. 

All  the  drawbacks  to  Mr.  Lowell's  prose 
style,  so  laboriously  dwelt  upon  by  such  critics 
as  Wilkinson  and  Kirk,  may  bo  found  in  these 

letters;  the  long  sentences,  the  mixed  meta- 
phors, the  occasional  bad  taste,  the  sparkle  of 
trivial  puns,  are  here  also.  He  who  could 
write  of  Milton,  in  a  printed  essay,  "  A  true 
Attic  bee,  he  viadc  boot  on  every  lip"  and  who 
would  assert  that  no  poet  ever  got  much 
poetry  out  of  a  cataract  except  Milton,  "  and 
that  was  a  cataract  in  his  eye,"  would  not  bo 
more  guarded  in  his  offhand  letters:  and  what 
most  proves  him  unconscious  of  these  quali- 
ties is  that  hois  sometimes  most  rollicking  and 
nonsensical  to  some  of  the  most  dignified  of  his 
feminine  correspondents.  Indeed,  that  side  of 
Lowell's  nature,  the  pure  bubble  and  ecstasy, 
the  champagne  quality,  has  never  been  so  tho- 
roughly exhibited  as  here;  and  the  saying  at- 
tributed to  one  of  his  Cambridge  intimates, 
that  "  Lowell  was  always  one  bottle  of  cham- 
pagne ahead  of  us  all,"  is  abundantly  exempli- 
fied, in  the  figurative  sense  in  which  it  was  in- 
truded. His  animal  spirits  were  always  too 
exuberant  to  make  much  demand  upon  any 
artificial  exhilaration,  although  tho  temporary 
impulse  under  which  he  followed  his  wife  into 
tho  total-abstinence  movement  (i.,  07)  appears 
soon  to  have  passed  away.  But  it  is  a  curious 
fact  that,  with  all  this  insuperable  vivacity, 
there  was  for  many  years  a  certaiu  cumbrous- 
ness  in  his  written  sentences,  traceable,  per- 
haps, to  the  old  English  writers  whom  he 
loved.  This  he  himself  recognizes  when  ho 
says.  "  My  very  style  belongs  to  the  last  cen- 
tury, and  drops  too  readily  into  the  sententious 
and  elaborately  historical  manner"  (i.,  309). 
He  adds:  "  Believe  me,  I  was  lively  once  and 
may  recover  it;  but  I  fear  me  much  I  have 
suffered  a  professor  change  that  has  gone  too 
deep  for  healing."  Here  he  deceives  himsolf. 
This  was  written  in  1800;  but  his  stylo  was 
then  far  less  sententious  and  elaborate  than 
when  he  wrote  for  the  Anti-Slavery  Standard 
nearly  twenty  years  before;  and  this  quality 
had  been  actually  a  ground  of  complaint 
among  the  readers  of  that  paper.  When 
Dickens  established  the  Daily  News  in  1845 
and  got  Lowell  to  write  for  it,  there  was  gene- 


8 

ral  disappointment  in  the  long  windedness  of 
his  communications.  Tho-  truth  is  that  he 
shortened  his  sword,  instead  of  lengthening 
it,  as  time  went  on;  and  the  probability  is  that 
"  the  professor  change  "  was  on  the  whole  a 
help  to  him  as  to  the  habit  of  expression. 
There  was  certainly  a  period  when  his  own 
style  tended  towards  that  quality  which  he 
calls,  in  the  case  of  George'  P.  Marsh,  "  con- 
gregational." Tho  crisp  and  piquant  quality 
was  never  far  distant,  but  there  were  long 
paragraphs  throughout  which  it  was  kept  in 
abeyance.  This  was  sufficiently  visible  in  his 
'Conversations  on  Somo  Old  Poets'  (1845), 
where  there  was  occasionally  a  sentence  half  a 
pago  long. 

It  is  a  curious  fact  that  a  constitutionally 
shy  and  modest  man  often  gets  the  credit  of 
undue  self-assertion  from  the  very  effort  he 
makes  to  overcome  his  natural  reluctance. 
This  was  signally  the  case  with  Lowell;  he 
never  likes  his  own  books,  constantly  belittles 
his  own  poems,  constantly  laments,  in  later 
life,  his  own  shortcomings.  Yet  he  was  al- 
ways a  great  talker,  always  given  to  mono- 
logue; wherever  he  sat,  there  was  the  head  of 
tho  table;  it  was  oven  said  of  him  in  youth, 
among  his  most  intimate  circle  of  friends,  that 
he  never  was  quito  easy  unless  he  led  the  con- 
versation. It  is  recorded  that  at  the  old 
Atlantic  dinners  which  preceded  tho  "Literary 
Club"  in  Boston,  he  and  Dr.  Holmes  sat  at  the 
two  ends  of  the  table,  and  did  nearly  all  tho 
talking.  Amid  all  his  social  popularity  in  Eng- 
land, there  recurred  at  times  this  same  impu- 
tation of  excess.  In  tho  amusing  papers  at- 
tributed to  Mr.  George  Russell  on  "  Talk  and 
Talkers  of  To-day  "  in  the  first  numbers  of  the 
New  Renew,  Lowell  is  highly  praised  for 
genuine  wit  and  vast  knowledge,  but  charged 
with  "airy  omniscience  "  and  a  "minute  and 
circumstantial  way  of  laying  down  tho  law." 
There  is  added  a  lively  account,  which  has  an 
irresistible  verisimilitude  for  all  who  knew 
Lowell,  about  his  gently  taking  her  task  out  of 
the  hands  of  tho  dignified  custodian  of  an  Eng- 
lish castle,  and  telling  her  and  the  guests  more 
about  its  history  and  traditions  than  she  or  any- 
body else  know  before.  Lowell  himself  says  in 
one  place:  "  I  suppose  it  was  the  extreme  soli- 
tude in  which  I  grew  up,  and  my  consequent 
unconsciousness  of  any  public,  that  made  me 
so  frankly  communicative "  (ii..  143).  It 
should  be  remembered  that  oven  the  love- 
poems  of  his  youth  were  censured  as  unduly 
open  to  the  public,  and  that  the  very  letters 
which  his  daughter  has  now  destroyed  as  too 
confidential  were  lent  freely  about,  in  their 
day,  among  a  large  circle  of  friends.  The  key 
to  all  this  is  to  be  found,  no  doubt,  in  the  sen- 
tence just  cited. 

No  book  of  our  time  is  so  crowded  with 
"  fine  things  said  unintentionally,"  as  was 
said  of  Shakspere's  sonnets  by  Lowell's  favor- 
ite, Keats.  Such  are  his  casual  sketches  of 
persons — Andrew  Johnson,  "whose  worst  was 
that  he  meant  well"  (ii.,  7);  Secretary  Chase, 
"a  weak  man  with  an  imposing  presence,  a 
most  unhappy  combination"  (ii.,  7);  the  poet 
Gray,  who  holds  his  own  with  "little  fuel,  but 
real  fire"  (ii.,  80);  Rousseau,  "a monstrous  liar, 
but  always  the  first  dupe  of  his  own  lie" 
(ii.,  434);  the  "  Adams  flavor,  as  unmistakable 
ns  that  of  the  Catawba  grape"  (ii..  431);  Dana, 


who  "  convinced  without  persuading  "  (ii.,  43!2) ; 
his  cook  Mary,  who  was  a  cook  "merely  by  a 
brevet  conforred  by  herself"  (ii.,  79);  the  com- 
parison of  Wordsworth's  poetry  to  the  old  ba- 
ronial housekeeping — "what  splendor  and 
what  sordidness  in  one"  (ii.,  307);  the  contrast 
between  Parnell  and  his  successor — "McCarthy 
occupies  his  throne  as  the  two  Kings  of  Brent- 
ford might.  Tho  Irish  half  of  him  will  bo  al- 
ways consulting  the  English  half,  and  there 
will  bo  no  single  sharp-edged  will  as  before" 
(ii.,  430).  Then  there  is  the  delicious  charac- 
terization of  Sibley's  '  Lives  of  Harvard  Gra- 
duates,'of  which  he  says:  "It  is  the  prettiest 
rescue  of  prey  from  oblivion  I  ever  saw.  .  .  . 
It  is  tho  very  balm  of  authorship.  No  matter 
how  far  you  may  be  gone  under,  if  you  are  a 
graduate  of  Harvard  College,  you  are  sure  of 
being  dredged  up  again  and  handsomely 
buried,  with  a  catalogue  of  your  works  to 
keep  you  down  "  (ii.,  130). 

Tho  closing  lettors  are  more  pathetic,  as  be- 
comes a  somewhat  languid  old  age,  yet  the 
champagne  sparkles  to  the  last.  Tho  whole 
book  leaves  a  wholesome  and  even  dolightful 
picture  of  Lowell  at  Elmwood,  surrounded  in 
his  arm-chair  by  vast  piles  of  books,  reading 
twelve  hours  a  day,  in  vacation  (ii.,  (X),  "one  of 
tho  last  of  the  great  readers  "  (ii.,  154),  enjoying 
the  blossoming  of  his  elms,  loving  every  living 
thing  about  him,  even  to  the  centipedes,  for 
which  his  gout  gave  him  a  peculiar  pity  (ii., 
430),  and  effervescing  all  tho  time  with  strokes 
of  wit  like  these.  While  people  assumed  that 
his  heart  was  in  England,  he  was  homesick 
when  abroad  and  happiest  at  home,  with  an 
Americanism  so  pronounced  that  it  perhaps 
explains  tho  else  insoluble  problem  why  Long- 
fellow should  have  been  translated  into  all 
European  languages  and  Lowell  into  none. 
It  is  pleasant  that  he  should  give  us,  from 
time  to  time,  a  glimpse  of  tho  doepor  phi- 
losophy which  made  him  so  full  of  sun- 
shine: 

"  The  more  I  learn,     .      .  the  more  my 

confidence  in  the  general  good  sense  aud  honest 
intentions  of  mankind  increases.  .  .  .  The 
signs  of  the  times  cease  to  alarm  me,  and  seem 
as  natural  as  to  a  mother  the  teething  of  her 
seventh  baby.  I  take  great  comfort  in  God. 
I  think  that  he  is  considerably  amused  with  us 
sometimes,  but  that  he  likes  us,  on  the  whole, 
and  would  not  let  us  get  at  the  match-box  so 
carelessly  as  ho  does  unless  ho  know  that  tho 
frame  of  his  Universe  was  fireproof"  (ii.,  51). 

How  many  accumulated  Bodies  of  Divinity 
and  Collections  of  Posthumous  Sermons  would 
it  take  to  make  up  as  solid  a  platform  of  reli- 
gious consolation  as  is  condensed  into  this 
seeming  irreverence  ? 

TlwtVjfrTiQl'l.  irvk.-  5  7,  ,t«.  iy-87 


/€& 


JAMES  RUSSELL  LOWELL. 

The  death  of  Mr.  Lowell  is  a  grievous  loss  alike  to  his 
country  and  his  friends.  Poet,  scholar,  critic,  and  states 
man,  he  leaves  behind  him  no  more  admirable  master  in 
each  department  nor  an}' more  truly  representative  Ameri- 
can citizen.  His  career  was  one  of  constant  and  well  bal- 
anced progress,  and  his  influence  upon  the  literary  taste  and 
moral  earnestness  of  the  younger  men  of  bis  time  was  most 
Stimulating  and  beneficent.  With  Holmes  and  Whittier,  he 
was  the  only  survivor  of  the  great  morning  of  our  literature. 
Irving  was  thirty  six  years  his  senior;  Bryant,  twenty-five; 
Emerson,  sixteen;  Hawthorne,  fifteen;  and  his  friend  and 
neighbor,  Longfellow,  twelve.  Upon  reaching  his  seventieth 
birthday,  two  years  ago,  Lowell  was  singularly  vigorous, 
with  the  elasticity  and  spirit  of  fifty  unabused  years.     But 

from  the  illness  of  a  year  later  he  never  recovered.  After 
a  long  absence  in  Europe  as  Minister  in  Spain  and  England, 
and  a  subsequent  residence  in  this  country  with  his  only 
Child,  a  married  daughter,  he  returned  to  his  own  house  in 
Cambridge,  only  to  die;  and  with  him  go  a  charming  gen- 
ius, a  noble  character,  extraordinary  literary  acquirements, 
and  a  picturesque,  brilliant,  and  delightful  personality. 

Intellectually,  Lowell  was  very  remarkable.  The  quick- 
ness, grasp,  and  originality  of  bis  mind,  his  keen  wit,  his  ex- 
quisite humor,  the  fertility  of  his  resource,  and  the  opulence 
and  readiness  of  his  memory  were  always  surprising  Of 
Puritan  descent,  he  wa?  as  characteristic  a  New-Englandcr 
as  Emerson,  and  his  moral  nature  was  as  positive  as  his  men- 
tal quality.  In  his  youth  his  verse  inspired  by  nntislavery 
agitation  was  so  Tyrtn?nn  that  to  the  end  of  the  orator's  life 
it  lipped,  as  with  white  flame,  the    fiery  darts  of  Wendell 

Phillips's  eloquence.  But  the  poetic  imagination  chastened 
Lowell's  ardor,  and  mellowed  the  radical  into  the  wise  in- 
terpreter of  the  national  conscience.  Of  the  crucial  Amer- 
ican controversy  of  the  century,  Lowell's  Biglmr  Pajterstrnd 
Mrs.  StQwe's  Viiele  Tom"*  Cabin  are  the  enduring  literary 
monuments,  and  American  patriotism  has  no  nobler  ex- 
pression and  English  poetry  no  loftier  strain  than  the 
"  Commemoration  < Me.' 

Lowell's  temperament  was  that  of  the  poet,  and  his  life 
that  of  the  scholar.  lie  was  class  poet  at  Harvard  when  ho 
was  nineteen;  he  published  his  first  volume  of  poems  when 
lie  was  twenty-two.  At  twenty-four  he  was  editor,  with 
Robert  Carter,  of  a  literary  magazine.  At  twenty -five  ho 
published  another  volume  of  poems;  and  at  twenty-six  a 
volume  of  criticism  upon  some  of  the  old  poets.  Before  he 
was  thirty  he  had  published  "The  Vision  of  St.  Launfal,  A 


JAMES  RUSSELL   LOWELL 

[tor  the  Transcript  ) 
The  King,  the  last  of  his  lino, 
Waits  in  his  homo  today. 
Unheeding  the  rare  sunshine. 
Or  the  breezes  gentle  play, 
He  watts  till  the  prayer  is  said 
Over  hi-;  regal  head. 
Waits  for  the  world's  lovo-sigv 
Written  in  flowers  divine, - 
Tho  King  is  dead! 

Who  shall  rocker  In  words 
The  worth  of  the  Icinff's  (rrand  i   'r  t? 
Number  tho  heart   his  choi 
Have  strengthened  in  lite'i  si  •■'.,•  pain 
His  kingdom  wide  as  the  world, 
And  loyal  in  LovoV.  lull  sum, 
Stands  with  its  en  ilgrn  forle  I 
lis  pale  ltj;?.  r.orrow  dui>'l>- 
T>>e  King  is  rlc 

No  one  can  wear  his  crown 
Or  climb  to  his  emptj  th 
In  honor,  and  wide  rer 
His  name  stands  high  and  alone, 
Mourn  for  the  last  of  his  line, 
O  kingdom  of  thought,  his  rcalml 
Silence,  tho  mystic  sign 
Of  a  lo=s  that  doth  overwhi  lm,- 
The  King  is  dead! 

Junes  that  aro  yet  to  bo, 
Swallows  of  Elmwood  cave  , 
River  that  rlov.  s  to  tho  sea, 
Trees  with  your  - 
Lover  and  frien  J  lias  ;  nssej 
Out  from  your  ;:lorv  and  grace ; 
Summer  in  shadow  is  cist, 
Missing  the  shine  of  his  face , 
The  King  is  (trad  ' 


Oh  lips  that  are  dumb  with  i    u  1 
Oh  heart  weighed  lov  v.  ith  ' 
What  means  thi    ?ad  refrti 

Like  a  wail  fronr  tho  lifted 

Songs  aro  a-wlng  on  the  airl 
Willows  a-qaivir  with  life! 
Color  and  blooi  i  cv 
Thought,  with  h\s\  rit 

Is  the  K  rj    dead? 


o 


.-i  7 


■5  rt 


A  — 


Ka.iit  b  .  Critics,'  and  the  first  series  of  the 
Highiin  I'ii/uiw.  At  thirty  six  he  succeeded 
Longfellow  at  Harvard  as  Professor  of  Mod- 
em Languages  and  Literature,  lie  was  edi- 
tor o£  the:  Aliunde  Monthly  for  live  years  and 
nf  tho  North  Anutriran  licvkm  for  nine  years. 
Hi;  published,  between  1804  and  1S70,  a  sit 
ries  of  new  /lif/Zar  1'it/nis,  two  volumes  of 
poems,  the  Fin  nidi  Travel*,  and  two  vol- 
umes of  critical  essays,  Aiming  my  Hooks 
and  Mg  Study  Windoios.  His  last  work  was 
J  In  i  rl  xra*e  ond  Jl>ic.  a  volume  of  poems  is- 
sued in  1888.  In  England,  before  be  was 
Minister,  lie  received  in  person  the  degree  of 
D.C.L.  from  Oxford,  and  from  Cambridge 
that  of  LL.]).,  and,  while  still  Minister  in 
I  .mi.  he  was  elected  Lord  Hector  of  St. 
Andrews  University,  but  resigned  the  office 
as  incompatible  with  his  diplomatic  posi- 
tion. 

Durum  all  this  lime  of  literary  activity  and 
production  ids  studies  in  literature  were  con- 
stant and  immense.  Besides  the  Greek  and 
Latin  authors,  he  was  deeply  versed  in  the 
old  l''reiicii  /WM/Ve/r  and  in  the  Spanish  drama, 
and  I.e.  was  one  of  the  most  profound  of  Dan- 
tcau  scholars.  This  wide  mastery  of  litera- 
ture _'avc  bis  own  works  extraordinary  and 
cap!  iviil.ing  richness  of  illustration ;  for  he  car- 
ried his  learning  lightly,  and  with  the  grace 
of  a  prince  wearing  an  embroidered  mantle. 
He  was  the  master,  not  the  victim,  of  what 
he  knew.  Ilia  acquirements  were  never 
chains  of  pedantry;    they  were  the  golden 


armor  of  a  vigorous  manhood  and  ot  a  pa- 
triotic citizenship. 

Mr.  Lowell's  interest  in  public  affairs  was 
that  of  a  clearsighted  man  who  knew  his- 
tory and  other  nations,  and  had  the  strongest 
faith  in  a  government  based  upon  popular 
intelligence.  The  country  never  sent  abroad 
in  the  person  or  its  Minister  a  better  Ameri- 
can Spain  and  England  saw  in  him  not 
only  it  man  who  by  his  literary  genius  had 
conferred  honor  upon  his  country,  but  who 
showed  that  the  finest  quality  of  manhood,  a 
wholesome  common-sense  thoroughly  train- 
ed and  amply  equipped,  was  distinctively 
American.  His  patriotism  was  not  the  brag 
of  conceit  nor  the  blindness  of  ignorance, 
and  the  America  of  the  hope  and  faith  of  iis 
noblest  children  was  never  depicted  with 
more  searching  insight  than  in  his  plea  for 
democracy  spoken  at  a  mechanics'  institute 
while  he  was  Minister  in  England;  nor  were 
the  manly  independence  and  courtesy  of  the 
American  character  ever  more  finely  illus 
tratcd  than  in  his  essay  upon  "a  certain 
condescension  in  foreigners."  It  was  a  pa- 
triotism which  did  not  admit  that  arrogance 
and  conceit  and  blatant  self-assertion  are 
peculiarly  American,  nor  insist  that  every- 
thing American  was  for  that  reason  better 
than  everything  which  was  not  American 
It  was  never  unmindful  that  the  root  of  our 


HARPER'S^ 

i 

VOLUME  XXXV.,  NO.  1809.1 

AUGUST  22,  1891. 

lion  and  to  the  life  of  older  nations  a  charm 
distinctively  their  own.  Our  literature  has 
no  work  more  essentially  American  than  the 
Bigloio  I'opcvn,  not  only  in  the  dialect  form, 
but  in  its  dramatic  portraiture  of  the  popular 
conscience  of  New  England,  of  Lincoln's 
"plain  people  "  who  have  given  the  distinc- 
tive impulse  to  American  civilization,  and 
from  whose  virtues  has  largely  sprung  the 
American  character. 

It  is  worth  while  to  lay  stress  upon  this 
quality  of  Mr.  Lowell,  because  it  is  the  one 
to  which  much  of  bis  peculiar  influence  is 
due,  yet  which  is  often  overlooked  or  denied. 
That  influence  sprang  from  the  humanity  of 
his  genius,  his  generous  sympathy  with  no- 
ble aspiration  and  endeavor,  his  political  in- 
dependence, and  his  steadfast  fidelity  to  the 
high  ideals  of  his  youth.  Something  of  his 
personal  fascination  is  felt  both  in  his  poetry 
and  his  prose,  and  he  has  so  cheered  and 
inspired  much  of  the  best  American  life  of 
his  time  that  his  death  will  full  as  a  bereave- 


ment upon  multitudes  who  never  saw  his 
political    system  and  of  our  national  char      ^ 
acter  was  not  aboriginally  American,  nor  did 
it  deny  to  the  traditions  of  an  older  civiliza- 


Georoe  William  Cuutib. 


fUNERAL  OF  MR.  LOWELL. 


SIMPLE   BUI   LMPKESFtfVE  SERVICES  IN  AP- 

PLETON    CHAPEL. 

% 

iV    NOTABLE    LIST    OF  PAIX-BEAREKS— THE    BODY 

BUiUED  INT  THE  FAMILY  LOT  IN   MOUXT 

AUBURN    CEMETERY. 

tflT   -nSLEGRATU    lO  THE  TK1CCXE.1 

Boston,  Am;.  14.— In  the  valley  of  Mount  Auburn. 
and  beneath  the  shadow  of  Indian  Ridec-ave.,  a  stone's 
toss  from  wliero  sleeps  tlie  dust  of  the  poet  Longfellow. 
»t  laid  ul  rest  to-day  by  the  hands  of  Mend 
neighbor^  the  body  of  James  Russell  Lowell,  and  above 
tlie  grave,  one  at  the  foot  and  another  at  the  head. 
Stan''  jilio  sentinels  two  hornbeam  trees,  whose  weird. 
Tagged  leaves,  never  trimmed  by  the  hand  of  man,  will 
sing  tbeir  requiem  over  the  body  of  the  poet,  author, 
critic  and  iiipl>>mat.  The  place  of  burial  is  the  oik 
selected  l)  Mi1,  Lowell,  and  around  his  body  air; 
group.  '  res  of  generations  of  LowelLs  and  Put- 

nams,  i  latter  being  the  family  of  Mr.  Lowell's  only 
Bring  -.1  :r.  Die  family  lot  is  conspicuous  on  ac- 
count of  it  extreme  p'ainness  anil  simplicity.  It 
Is  nnmc in ■<_■;,  b.'i:is  without  granite  cubing,  ltedee  or 
ev-n  location  I  I  iclts.  No  monument  marks  tlie  i-pot, 
and  only  small,  plain  tombstones  arc  at  "the  head  of 
each  grave,  bearing  the  following  inscriptions: 
Chart,  s  ftut-acll  Lowell.  Died  June  ?3,  1S70. 
rauu  -  Jach^u    Lowell,   Lieutenant;  20th   Massachusetts 

.    's.       T)>  ■!    rmic  4.  1882. 
Samuel  R.  Putnam.     Died  December  Si.  1881. 
"Wiiihim  L  >wcll  Putnam.  20th  Regiment  Massachusetts 
Volunteers.      Klllei  sT  Ball's  Bluff.   (Xtoher  21.  isai. 
Annie  Cabot  Lowell.      Died  January  7.  1374. 
Charles  Russell  Lowell.  Colonel  2d  Massachusetts  Cav- 
alry.    Died  October  20.  1864. 

CIia?le<  Lowell  Putnam.      Dl>d  September  10,  184". 
Rebecca    RusseU    Lowell,   daughter   of  Charles  Jjoweli, 
D.  I).      Died  Mar  20.  1872.        '  * 

The  funeral  services  over  the  body  of  James  Rus- 
sell iiowell  were  as  simple  and  unostentatious  as  was 
the  life  of  the  deceased  man.  They  were  held  in 
Applcton  cnapcl,  where  for  generations  Harvard  men 
have  worshipped.  Long  in  advance  of  the  nrrival 
of  the  fnrtf>i-al  proce=slon  the  seats  assigned  to  llio 
public  were  filled,  and  hundreds  were  unable,  to  get 
within  the.  'portals  of  the  dim  old  chapel. 
The  officiating  clergymen  wore  Bishop  Phillips  Brooks 
an''  Hie  Rev.  William  LawreoeV,  dean  of  the  Episcopal 
Theological  Seminary  at  Cambridge  Shortly  sfter  13 
o'clock  the  funercl  procession  was  led  into  the  church 
by  vl'o  clergymen,  who  were  followed  bj  \h:  pall- 
Itjaiers,  Then  came  the  coffin,  anrt  behind  tiiat.  all 
Bi  dead  poet's  relatives  and  family.  Mrs.  Bnrw-tl. 
His  oangnxer,  was  cscortea  Dy  Her  eJaest  son.  The 
music  during  the  service  was  rendered  by  the  Temple 
male  quartet.  Tlie  music  was  hi  charge  of  Warren 
A.  Locke,  organist  at  the  chapeL  The  selections  in- 
cluded a  chant,  "Lord,  Let  Mo  Know  My  End,"  by 
Buck;  -Ben Li  Mortui,"  by  Mendelssohn;  "I  Heard  a 
Voice  from  Heaven,"  by  JVC  D.  Parker;  "Libera 
Me,3  by  Kallwood.  The  floral  tributes  wete  few  in 
number  and  modest  In  character.  A  wreath  picked 
at  Elrowood  rested  on  the  head  of  the  coffin. 
The  body  was  inclosed  la  a  plain  black  coffin,  without 
rig  crept  a  silver  plate  bearing  the.  i  In  pie 
Inscription . 

IMro,  August  12,  1891, 
James  Russell  Lowell, 
Aged  72  years,  5  months. 
The  pallbearers  vera  Pne.-ideni  O,  W.  Elfot,  George 
BUI        (  iirtis.  Dr.  Oliver  Wcndctl  liolines,  W         '  I ■■< 
psi  10]      :  V    Crancn,  Professor  Charles   E    Nov 

ton,  Proi  01  lid,  C.  F.  Choat.-,  .Tohn  Holmes  and 

Bofcss  •  Rarttett.   Their  duUes  were  eutliely  horn  .  i 
llu-  coffln  being  borne  Into  anil  from  the  church  be! 
iheni  by  the  undertaker.  Mr.  Wyetll,  and  Ms  assl  tants. 
The  foregoing  list  of  pallbearers  is  p.  notable  one. 


10 

John  Holmes  is  a  yannger  brother  of  Oliver  Wendell 
Holmes,  and  of  him  Lowell  once  said  that  he  considered 
him  as  witty,  If  not  wittier,  than  tho  mor\>  vel'-known 
"Autocrat."  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  George  William 
Cnrtis  and  William  Dean  Howell-;  are  names  that  need 
only  ;.  mention.  Charles  Eliot  Norton,  professor  of 
fine  arts  at  Harvard,  was  »  great  personal  friend  of  the. 
deceased  man.  John  BartleU,  of  (he  publishing:  house 
of  Llttlo.Tirown  <fe  Co.,  1*  the  author  of  "Familial  Quo- 
tations," to  whom  Lowell  dedicated  one  of  his  poems 
In  token  of  friendship.  Professor  Child  has  been  for 
years  at.  the  head  of  the  F.nRllsli  department  of  Har- 
vard College.  Charles  F.  Choate  Is  the  president  of  the 
Old  Colony  Railroad  Company.  Christopher  P.  branch, 
who«o  poems  have  delighted  many,  was  a  member  of 
tho  Theological  School  when  Lowell  was  a  sophomore. 
The  funeral  arrangements  were  In  charge  of  Chief 
Usher  Edward  Jackson.  Tho  remaining  ushers  wore 
A.  Lawrence  Lowell,  George  Gardner,  Ernest  Jackson, 
Francis  J,.  Coolldge,  Arthur  Lyman  and  Mooifleld 
Storey.  The  relatives  and  family  of  tho  deceased  poet, 
the  p.illbearers  and  members  of  tho  Loyal  Legion  and 
Harvard  Corporation  occupied  a  dozen  reserved  pews 
directly  in  front  of  the  pulpit.  Of  the  surviving  mem- 
bers of  Mr.  Lowell's  class,  tiro  cla=!s  of  lciis.  the  follow- 
ing were  present:  Samuel  Leonard  AbbMt,  William 
Aapluwall,  ox-M  mister  Gcorgo  Bailey  Loilng, 
William  Ingersoll  Bowditch  and  James  Ivers  Trorothtck 
Cooliilgc.  The  LoyaJl  Legion,  of  n'hich  .\)r.  Lowell 
waa  a  member,  was  represented  by  the  foBowin:  i 
£i*'ea :  General  John  I.  <">tls,  <  '..'one;  Steph  r. 
Crosby,  General  Francis  A.  Walker  C  : 
P.  Martin,  Colonel  Cha  his   H.  Codmiii  '      - 

en,  Frederick  V,     Lincoln.  Col   - 
William  Endicott,  Irr,  Colonel  Henrj  L ■■-.  r»..'o- 
bturgis,  Captain  Nathan  Apple. on,  Gutter*!  Edward  W. 
Hinclts,  Colonel  Arnold  A.  Baud  and  Captain  Hira.m  S 
Bhurtleff. 

Amoi.i  others  prosec'  were  B.  B.  Aud 
Wis.,  ex-Minister  lo  Denmarfr:  Hi. 
cock,  of  SomervUlo;   John  Livw  idge; 

Proiess.T    J  ihn    H.    Wright,    oi 
CJharleo,  T.   Kussell,   the   JJev.   D:.    Ai  lei       f   ' 

bridge;  Edwin  r>.  Mead.  Daniel  C.  Heath,  Ji   tin 
librarian  of  Harvard  University;  11.  0    'l       hi  ■•     Jr., 
the  Rev.   Edward  G.  Porter,  of  L   s 
Morve,   Jr.,   Joseph   Burnett,    of   .-  Ren 

Edward    A.   Band,   of    Watertown;     '  mer,    oi 

Waiertown ;  George  Puti    m,.  Lever.   I 
I>.  Sanborn,  Mayor  Ai»h£us  Alger,  ■  '  (    mbrldi 
onel     Henrv    L.    Illcgliison,    Josepli    (  •,-.    Jr. 

Richard  IT.' Dana,  Pfofes       L.  R.  W'i  Ellen 

T.  Emerson,  of  Concord,  Ma&s.;  the  Rev.  IX  .v 
of  Cambridge;  the  Hev  I'r.  A.  P.  Peabodv,  (" 
GcorKo   Mendall  Taylor     Or.   H.    f,    P  I   C:im 

briilire;    State   Librariaii    C     B,   TilHi   ;hast,    Dr.   T,    n. 
Cnnhincham,  of  Cambridge;   the   iiev.   A.   )i.   Muzzcy, 
of  Cambridge;  Jame-   A.  Fox,  Charles 
John   Quincy  Ariajti=,  Ii>.  James  Putnam,  J 
wav.  of  Bedford;  Profasswr  T,    V.  Dv     t,  of 
linlverslty;  Professor  H.  W    Williams,    <i  Hi;,  ird  Uni- 
versity: Geonto  P    Cov  Ware,  of  i 
hia  College,  New-Vork;  i  ■■  i  ;e   \hb  U   Ian     .  the  Ron 
Or.  T.  P.  Pnidden,  of  Chh-a  n:  Di%  William  C   H:r 
Jam.';   J,    >fyers,    tlw     f!   "     Dr,    V.    C.    V\       !■■■■  ) 
fossor   Adolph  Cohn,    A.    II.   Hart,   Will          I          .    \-- 
slstant  Librarian  W.   C.   Lane,  ol   ii   r\ 
J.  J.  Myers,  W.  W.   Newell,  -r.  W.  Frci 
the    Wa-ihlngfon    Omhimai    School,    C»iuhml 
Snow,    William    11.    Oo    Las   Ca          1   •  .  ,:            Arthur 
Gormlev.  ill  Cambrl                                 .  and  Dr.  Hetir 
A.   Wlliia'ns. 

Tho  hodv  was  nm  cm  •  ->'  I  •  u>"  v> 
ai  .1  vwi,  t -i i:  -ii  lo  JrounI    Vuhnrn  Imi   vilatoj       ■'.  ■    id 
Bcrvlccs    ••   the  rlianel,   followed   by 
- 1 ,  ■•         n  her;  w    " ']  »  <  ■  ervices    •:    I   r  gr  \\  ■• 
l,h,  ■  bo.l  •  "'  .-sting  pla  •  . 

in    M.  ■  i    !■  -I'     tltl'i  ■     ' 

.■  •.■.    toil    l  utul  '■  |  at  I  tlf  on 

Vi-Cer  of  Mayor   v. 


a  .a 


3-8 


a  &"g 

a   -j 


9  J3   •  i.  H  *>  * 

«^5  |JS  §  3 

"  S  s  °  a  o  -= 


>: 


§  §  2  -°  I  I  S  V  1  I  f 


>    — 

iJ2  &; 


u  a  > 
5*3 


I  g  s  §  £ 

1  5  s  I  5 
*  H  g  I'3 
3  S I  *  g 


S   5 


IP 


6 
ai   a 

n  ^  a 

e  ^    o 
"  .a 
h  2^ 


SB 

g  -o   » 

«-    B      , 

o  «  » 
T3  « 

a,    o    E 

ps  .a  f 
a 

t,    «      -     <     fc 

o  -a  S        & 

•S  a  "8  t  '$ 


_    •   _  .- 

9  5  !•» 
«  £ 

B  *«  "»  •§ 

rt    O    (8  ,i' 

jc    a 

b  -     ■ 


S^sj 


»  3. 


4  J* 

u.     i 

^  51 
Pi 


£      4.      Q      qa 


3      W    «>    ^-»    ,-- 
M,  <M    S     .        ?> 


9  a  s 


1    I 


SJ    J' 

ts  *  a 

»-    B 

a  ft  5 

S    B   -2 

•9  tt5 

aS"S- 
^3  | 


•9  "S  S  ^  8 

S  »i  o    o 

,  oj  cs  a  «; 

9  "  §1 

a?  5  g  .a 


J?  a  > 


w 


5B.3  2 


2  o 

•o    •  t?  «  9 

*  S    »  a1  - 

»*  £   a  3   ci 

J      '/!  O      N 

C    |«  9 

'St  sb  •■ 

59    S  M    " 

.2  5  .9  t. 


2  J,  A  5  t' 

-    »»   'S  - 

i-tSft 

3  -  «-  Z  " 
t  a  S  "E 

3  *  i  |  i 

-  O     ti    *   £ 

«  a      b  ** 

|  |  2  1  a  8 
ft  J  "H   °   S   ti 

I  '*!*•!  a 

»2£ 


3     41     O 


J.    TS 
■3    9 


2    a    O 


=   H   «   w'  a 

sat- 

a  «  <u  ^i  m 

-  fl  ?  S  u 
i  -s  r  **  2 

~    J3   C    » 

a  5  .a  „  i!  cs 

X    3    ii   B    o    a 

©       «     ^J       r,      +*      ® 

■SS-o  e 

P  BO 

•o  3  « 


a  »  t; 

3  a -si 


s  "3  <d 

•b  a  J5 


2  "9  "B 
-B  o  a 


BBS 

«J  **  pB 

2  a  *>   °  -3 

,  « ■;  »  ^  «  S 

©    a  -_.    a;  o   S 

b  .s  *  -  e  ■-  a 

.a  a  2  a"  S  *• 

>    X         "S  in 


—  o 
«  o 
B    - 


^'  a 


g  a 

a  S  !? 

*rf      CO      "^         ?■     ♦*     ,r^ 


■ft 


8   H   M 


N 


o 


5    « 


'^'      u.      CJ 


tjo  a 


S  a 

s 


a 


S     «l     1)    t) 


S   ^   £  H 


J3     W 


J2  .'5 


5   3 


B  ^ 

b  2  b 

tf  ai      - 

B  S    * 

S  H3    B 

8  t«    to 


a    ■»    ^,    l, 

,j:    n    v   " 

^    ..  "-    ai    B 


■c  a 


>.  r»  a   2   >> 

»  sS'a 


•J  -5    B. 


A    be 


(.1  2 


THr-"BTTBIAL    OF    J,0WVT.' 

Yesterday,    after  3imrl"    - 
Applcton  rhape!.  tho    bods 
SELL  Lowelt,  lvfi  i;t;J  to  rc>t   in   Mount 
Auburn.    Tlio  presence  Of  a  larpe  eonijiany 
of  people  ernincntiu  our  public,  literary  .ind 


"7   i= 


■j 


o    a  A  ~ 

?>i  "■§ 

o  o  5  -c 
a  ">       -• 

=5  "B  ^ 
«i  a  ° 

B    N 
o    rt 

2  i* 


^  X  -r* 


a 

^  *  .. 

V  -Z  M  v 

°     o-  B  « 


9   t 


•v 


•r.  n  A 

E  a  ^ 

-§  2  « 

=  "  a 

,_  J3 


b.9 


B,  _ 
4.  ^ 
■O     (0 

to    B  -S    »        'S  _ 

■  -  °  6  a  2- 
2  a 
8*  S 

o-2  *<   B 

o   >.  ^  'E    p         o 

•*■  g.g  a  a  S  * 

■a    g   B   o  ,«;  *"    o 

f  o  i  ? ;  j  z 

5  £  93  .g  .9 15  b 
4  5  -S  S*S   3 


i-asiglillll 

a  <"  7  «  o  »  -  ■§  g  &  5  a 

^ft.£§g3aHas3^I 


11 

bach  a  soul  as  Lowell's  belongs  to  his  ,  The  music  was  under  the  direction'  of  W.  A. 

r        .-     t* _m-  k„„i,i,„  „iK,-,  Locke,  chorister  of  Harvard  University. 

feotuito  men  forever.    I  was  healthy  abovo  ^^  9uJo(ry  ^^  fc  we  ^  uttewd  than 

all  else    Tbe  lambont  lightnings  ol  its  wit  that  nttered  in  the  Tolco  of  Dr.  Brooks  through 

and  hnmoi  played  continnally  in  Its  depths  the  service.    There  was  A  note  of  faith  and  ex- 

Mid  illuminated    its  surface    with    their  al  tat  ion  in  the  prayer  ut:r:.ie   heaxty  thanks 

chani-in*  forms.    It  is  useless  to  take  such  for  "the  good  example  of  all  thos,>  thy  porvauts, 

i„„~,,_  „„a  ,t,..™rti,.nii'  tr.  who,  having  finished  their  conrst  iu  faith,  do 

?  ivan  on  hearsay  ana  at  seeonct  nana ,  to  *          . 

,     *                       ,              .  now  rest  from  their  labors." 

know  him,  and  thus  enjoy  and  appreciate  Out  Into  tho  sunshine  again   under  the  elm 

him,  w»<  must  go  through  tho  wealth  of  his  boughs  of  the  University  yard   tho  coffin  was 

rich  ver-e  asrain  and  again.    Then  we  shall  borne  and  the  long  line  of  carriages  moved 

most  rrulv  realize  that  not  only  will  hi  away,  following  the  hearse  to   Mount  Auburn, 

bo  suffered  to  die.  but  that   for  the  Mm-    Burnett    rode   with    her     eldest    son, 

...        ,        ,       ..  who  takes  the  name  of  Lowell.    Mrs.  Putnam, 

Continued  good  he  has  done  for  others,  in  Mr  j^^.,  only  rematnlnff  8,ster,  and  num- 

thisday  :md  in  days  to  come,  a  rare  spirit  bera  0f  tne  friends  who  were  in  the  chapel. 

Indeed  bos  beon  in  our  midst  and  but  just  went  to  the  burial  in  Mount  Auburn,  in  the 

tiov   taken  its  quiet  aud  final   departure.  family  lot.  in  the  resting-place  chosen  by  him- 

Let  us  treasure  such  words  of  his  as  these :  »"■    ™°  &***  «*»'«  **•  ***«>  w  *•*■""» 

_       ■,              ,  .       ,  lot  on  the  right  of  Fountain  avenue— the  first 

Thou  alone  seem'st  good,  .  ~     «*»*»».          a. 

I  air  only  tl.oa.  O  Freedom,  whose  detfte  *™nu8  «»  the  left  of  tho  entrance.         . 

Can  UghUn  muddiest  tools  quick  seed*  or  are,    .  The  lot  Is  a  double  one  near  the  Longfellow 

And  M»ain  life'schordi  to  tuooid  h-101' i.i.--ii.  lot,  containing  the  remains  of  generations  of 

Lowells  and  Putnams.    It  Is  very  simple.    It  Is 

unenclosed   and  without  curbing  or  location 

,,n       ,  .,.,_.  ,  JO      rMMroAl  blocks.    No  monument   marks   the  spot,  and 

iTlK.      LOWtLLo     rUINtnALi  only  small,  plain  tombstones  are  at  the  head 

,-i_  of  each  grave,  bearing  the  following  inscrip- 

Sevvicea   Held  This   Afternoon  in  Varies  RusseiiLoweii,  died  June  23.  isto. 

h^i.4.a^    r<i,.,.*ni  Jarnea  Jackson  Lowell,  lieutenant  20tu  Massachusetts 

^.pplei/On    t^Uepei.  Volunteers,  died  June  4, 1882. 

-  Samnel  K.  Pnrnam,  died  Dec.  24, 18C1. 

Wllllain  Loirell  Putnam. 2<>thKe?1ment  Massachnsctts 

Bishop-Elect  Brooks  and  Dean  Lawrence  the  ^[fc^^^ 

Officiating   Clerevmen— Oistlneuished  Men  Charles   RusseU  Lowell,  colonel  Second  Massachn- 

_                 „a         _&*         .                 ,&  setts  Cavalry,  died  Oct.  20, 18G4. 

Present  from  Far  and  Near— Interment  at  chariesLoweiiVutiiam.d'.edSept  10, 1847. 

»<_.._♦    a..u...  .  Rebecca  Russell  Lowell,  daughter  of  Charles  Lowell, 

Mount  Auburn.  r>.  d.,  died  aiay  20, 1872. 

While  the  body  was  being  conveyed  to  Mount 

Alma  Mater  received  he.   -on  again  for  the  Auburn  the  church  bells  throughout  the  city 

sacred  last  rites  of  honor  and 'of  affection.    In  were  tolled  and  the  flags  displayed  at  half-staff 

the  silence  and  the  shadows  .h'  Appleton  Chapel  foy  order  of  Mayor  Alger. 

at  Harvard  University,  the  i.iay  of  James  Rus-  The  ushers  at  the  chapel  were  Edward  Jack- 

'we.ll  lay  at  noon  tod.-y.    In  the  throng  son,  Ernest  Jackson   Arthur  Lyman,  Francis  L 

tii. t  had  tilled  tlie  chapel  when  the  funeral  Coolidge,  Mooreneld   Storey,   George  Gar. 'tier 

services  began  there  were  ■   iiiv  distinguished  and  A.  LawTence  Lowell 

men  and  women  who  cotm ;  no  honor  or  joy  Noticeable  among  tho  vast  throng  was  a 
that  life  has  brought  tii' ;.  arei  than  what  delegation  of  members  of  the  loyal  Legion, 
came  from  being  friend?  ■  'LowelL  They  were  composed  of  General  John  L.  Otis.  Colonel 
all  his  loving  and  mourning  friends  and  their  Stephen  M  Crosby,  General  Francis  A.  Walker, 
tears  miaglcd  with  those  V,:o  wore  only  n"r;rcr  General  A- P.  Martin,  Colonel  Charles  R.  Cod- 
to  him  by  ties  of  blood  and  man.  Colonel  T.  W.  Higgtrson.  who  had  come 

Dr.  Phillips   Brooks   at!    Dr.   William    Law-  from  Dublin,  N.  H.,  to  attend  the  funeral,  Hon. 

rence.  dean  of  the  Episcopal  iheolo^icnl  School  Frederick  W.  Lincoln.  Colonel  Henry   Stone, 

of   the  university,  were   t  William   Endicott.   Jr..    Colonel    Honry    Lee, 

preceded  to  the  altar  the  coliin  that  bore  for  its  Major  Russell  Sturgis,  Colonel  Arnold  A.  Rand,. 

tribute  a  wreath  of  i\y  leaves  ricked  at  Captain  Nathan  Appleton,  General  Edward  W. 

cod  by  Mis.  Burnett,  Mr.  Lo*  ell's  dapgh-  Hincks  and  Captain  Hiram  D.  Shurtleff.  Others 

tor.     This  was  the  inscription  upon  the  coliin  present  were:    Hon.  R.  B.  Anderson,  ex-United 

plate :  States  minister  to  Denmark,  who  came  to  Cam- 

...' .  bridge  from  Madison,  Wis.;  President  Eliotof 

Died  Aug.  12.  1801                          :  Harvard   College;     Frank  B.    Sanborn,   J.    G. 

a^^oS^  «™««rh.                     •'  Thorpe,  Jr.,  Richard  H.   Dana  and  Mrs.  Dana; 
Aged.  <  2  years,  5  months,                     .  „!»,,,.,            •»       c          it        ,  „ 
• • Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thorpe;  Rev.  Samuel  Longfellow; 

A  wreath  of  roses  from  Mrs.  Putnam  and  a  \jj,.  H.  E.  Scudder;  Mayor  A..  B.  Al^rer 
wreath  of  laurel  from  Mrs.  Fields  were  the  0f  Cambridge;  Hon.  Leverett  Saltonst.il, 
only  offered  symbols  of  lov».  The  laurel  Rev.  T.  P.  Prudden,  D.  D.,  of  Chicago;  I^v.  Ed- 
wreath  was  hung  at  Dr.  Brooks's  right,  warfi  a.  Rand;  Professor  L.  R.  Willis- 
close  to  the  coffin.  Its  .significance  was  Torj,  Professor  William  James,  Professor 
deeply  evident,  not  merely  in  its  nrst  meaning  Cohen,  W.  C.  Lane,  J.  J.  Myers,  George  H. 
cfcroxn  of  fame,  bnt  also  as  the  gift  of  Mrs.  Welds,  Professor  Smith  and  Profe=*or  Mack  of 
Jaraos  T.  Fields,  the  widow  of  the  man  whose  Harvard;  Hon.  George  B.  Lorinsr,  William 
fostering  of  literature  made  pleasantCT  the  Aspinwall,  Dr.  Abbott  of  Boston.  Willia-n 
early  pathway  of  the  poet.  Bowditch      and      J.      I.      T.     Coolidgo      of 

These  gentlemen  were  pall-bearers:  Oliver  Mr.  Lowell's  class  of  "38  of  Harvard; 
Wendell  Holmes,  his  brother  John  Holmes,  Dr.  H.  P.  Walcott,  who  attended  Mr.  Lowell  in 
Hon.  E.  R.  Hoar.  Charles  V.  Storey,  Professor  his  last  illness ;  ex-Mayor  James  A.  Fox  of  Cam- 
Charles  Eliot  Norton,  Professor  Child,  Presi-  bridge;  ex-Mayor  Samuel  Greene  of  Bos- 
dent  Charles  F.  Choate  of  the  Old  Colony  Rail-  ton;  Rev.  Dr.  '  Alexander;  E.  D.  Mead; 
road,  George  William  Curtis,  William  Dean  John  Llvermore  of  Cambridge;  Dr.  Thom- 
Howells  and  John  Bartlett.  :    as     E.    Cunningham    of   Cambridge;     E.    C. 

The  first  piece  sung  was  "Lord,  let  me  know  Heath;  Justin  Winsor,  the  librarian  of 
my  end"  (Bach),  by  a  quartet— J.  E.  Johnson.  Harvard  College;  C.  B.  Tillinghast,  8tate 
(Teorjro  W.  Want.  George  H,  Remcke,  and  A.  C.  librarian;  H.  O.  Houghton,  Jr.;  Mr  Frank 
Ryder  The  musical  service  included  also  these  i  Garrison;  Rev.  E.  G.  Porter  of  Lexiug- 
notabers:  "Beati  Mortui,"  Mendelssohn;  "I1  ton;  Postmaster  Arthur  Gorman  of  Cam- 
heard  a  Voice  from  Heaven,"  J.  C.  D.  Parker,  bridge;  Rev.  II.  C.  Hitchcock,  W.  8. 
and  "Libera  Me."  CJlyroer,    Miss    Ellen    T.    Emerson,    daughter 


of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson;  Henry  L.  Iiirr- 
ginson,  Dr.  A.  P.  Peabody,  Rev.  D.  N. 
Beach,  of  Cambridge;  Professor  George  Men- 
dell  Taylor.  Rev.  A.  B.  Mnssey,  of  Cambridge; 
Hon.  Charles  Theodore  Russell,  Robert  M. 
Morso,  Jr.,  Rev.  James  Sallaway  of  Bedford, 
in  A.  Alger  of  Cauibridgo,  Professor 
T.  A.  Dv.  yir  of  Richmond  University,  Professor 
H.  W.  Williams  of  Harvard;  Professor  Ware, 
Columbia  College,  Now  York;  Richard  Watson 
■r.  editor  of  the  Centurjr;  Mrs.  Louis  Asas- 
giz;  Mrs.  Edwin  P.  Whipple;  Mrs.  Anna  Cabo 
Lodge:  Mti.  James  T.  Fields. 


JAMES    RUSSELL    LOWELL 

Poet,  Professor,  Reformer,  Minister  to 
England  and  First  Citizen  of  His  State 
—Full  Sketch  of  Hla  Long,  Active  and 
Distinguished  Career. 


Hon.  James  RusseU  Lowoll,  eminent  as  a 
scholar,  poet,  diplomat  and  wit,  died  at  his 
home,  "Elmwood."  Cambridge,  at  2.10  this 
morning,  after  a  long  illness.  His  daughter. 
Mrs.  Burnett,  was  in  attendance  at  tho  time  of 
his  death.  Tho  immediate  cause  of  his  death 
was  gout  and  sciatica  complicated  with  other 
diseaiss.  Mr.  Lowell  had  been  in  poor  health 
since  bis  roturn  from  England  in  1885,  and  for 
over  a  year  past  he  had  been  unable  to  meet 
bis  lecture  engagements;  but  it  was  not  until 
within  a  short  time  tliat  his  condition  was  re- 
garded aa  critical. 

Mr.  Lowell  was  born  in  Cambridge,  Feb.  22. 
1819,  in  the  historic  old  mansion.  Elmwood, 
which  he  inherited,  and  which  had  been  his 
homo  all  his  life  He  was  descended  from  a 
long  lino  of  men  who  have  stood  high  in  the 
annals  of  their  country.  His  sather  was  Rev. 
Charles  Low. -11.  for  many  years  pastor  of  the 
West  Church,  Boston,  and  his  grandfather  was 
Hon.  John  Lowell,  the  statosman  who  inserted 
in  tho  constitution  of  Massachusetts  the  words, 
"All  men  are  created  free  and  equal,"  and  by 
offering  to  argue  in  the  courts  that  under  It  no 
man  could  be  In  1J  in  bondage.led  to  the  abolition 
of  slavery  in  the  Commonwealth.  He  was 
litterl  for  college  by  William  Wells,  senior  of 
the  firm  to  which  wo  owe  the  series  of  Wells 
and  Lilly  classics,  entered  Harvard  in  his  six- 
teenth year,  and  was  graduated  in  1838.  His 
first-published  literary  produotion,  unless  possi- 
bly some  poems  for  "Harvardiana,"  which 
he  edited  in  l837-'8,  was  his  notable  class 
poem,  composed  uuder  peculiar  circumstances 
At  the  time  of  writing  it  the  collegiate  senior 
was  undergoing  a  brief  period  of  rustication  at 
Concord,  in  consequence  of  inattention  to  his 
textbooks.  His  forced  sojourn  in  this  Arcadia 
of  scholarship  and  reform  brought  him  into  re- 
lationship with  the  transcendentalists,  who  at 
that  day  were  in  tbe^habit  of  gathering  at  the 
home  of  Emerson,  with  whom  then  began  that 
friendship  whion,  despite  the  playful  sallies  of 
the  younger  poet  in  his  earlier  writings,  only 
terminated  with  the  death  of  the  elder.  Tbe 
young  satirist  saw  the  humorous  side  of  the 
social  movements  of  the  day,  and  the  class- 
poem,  scintillating  with  wit.  attacked  the  abo- 
litionists, Carlyle,  Emerson,  and  the  transcen- 
dentalists. In  the  law  school. of  Harvard,  he 
received  the  degree  of  LL.  B.,  and  was  ad. 
,  mltted  to  the  bar  in  1840.  The  only  record  of 
!  the  practice  of  his  profession  is  found  in  a  story 
'  entitled  "My  First  Client,"  published  in  tho 
i  "Boston  Miscellany."  Henceforth  he  gave  him- 
1  self  entirely  to  literature.  In  1841  a  volume  of 
poems  was  published  under  the  title  of  "A 
Year's  life."  The  volume  was  never  repub- 
lished, and  of  the  seventy  poems  only  a  small 
part  have  been  deemed  worthy  of  reprinting  by 
the  author.  His  marriage  to  the  woman  who 
inspired  these  poems  took  place  in  1844.  Maria 
White  was  an  ardent  abolitionist,  and  no  doubt 
her  influence  assisted  in   turning  his  thoughts 


to  the  serious  side  of  that  cause  to  which  he 
rendered  immortal  service.  To  understand 
Lowell's  career,  it  is  necessary  to  remember 
that  he  was  not  only  a  poet,  a  scholar,  and  a 
humorist,  but  always  a  conservative  and  a 
critic.  No  man  was  more  thoroughly  imbued 
than  he  with  the  fundamental  principles  of 
American  democracy— a  democracy  without 
demagogism-  no  man  more  jealous  than  he  of 
the  untarnished  reputation  of  America  in  poli- 
tics and  literature,  110  man  more  quick  to  seo 
any  departure  from  the  high  ideal  of  the  repub- 
lic, and  his  flaming:  pen  was  turned  to  attacK. 
whatever  assailed  this  ideal— at  one  time  slave- 
ry, at  another  time  vicious  political  methods 
threatening  the  purity  of  democratle  society. 
His  radicalism  was  always  conservative,  his 
criticism  always  constructive.  Mr.  Lowell  and 
his  wife  were  regular  contributors  to  the  Lib- 
erty hell,  and  his  name  appears  in  1848  in  the 
Anti-Slavery  Standard  as  corresponding  editor. 
In  this  paper,  from  1843  to  1846,  his  poems 
during  that  period  mostly  appeared.  Later  the 
Boston  Courier  was  the  vehicle  of  his  produc- 
tions, and  in'  its  columns  the  first  series  of  the 
"Biglow  Papers,"  was  given  to  the  public,  be- 
ginning in  the  issue  for  Jane,  184G,  and  ending 
in  1848.  This  satire  was  an  event  of  tho  first 
importance  in  the  history  of  the  world's  liiera. 
tore.  In  wit,  scholarship,  and  penetrating 
knowledge  of  human  nature,  it  leok'the  place 
which  it  has  ever  since  maintained,  of  a  master* 
piece.  Tha  "Biglow  Papers"  will  no  doubt  prel 
serve  the  Yankee  dialect,  and  cause  it  to  be 
studied  ages  hence  in  order  to  the  comprehen- 
sion of  the  effect  upon  our  national  life  of  one 
of  the  rr.osf  opportune  allies  that  freedom  ever 
baa. 

His  interest  in  the  anti-slavery  contest  did 
not  prevent  him  from  purely  literary  labors. 
In  1843  he  undertook  the  editing  of  "The  Pio- 
neer, a  Literary  and  Critical  Magazine,"  in 
joint  editorship  with  Robert  Carter;  and  Poo. 
Hawthorne,  Neal,  Dwight,  JonosVery,  Parsons, 
Elizabeth  Barrett  (Mrs.  Browning),  YVhittier 
and  William  W.  Story  were  contributors.  Only 
three  numbers  were  published,  theveuturo  fail- 
ing through  financial  disaster  to  the  publishers. 
In  this  magazine  was  begun  a  series  of  essays 
on  the  poets  and  dramatists,  which  afterwards 
formed  the  material  for  "Conversations  with 
Some  of  the  Old  Poets."  In  1844  oamo  a  vo!- 
ume  of  Terse,  containing  "A  Legend  of  Britta- 
ny,' witn  thirty-three  miscellaneous  poems  and 
thirty -seven  sonnets  (among  thorn  Konnet:.  to 
Wendell  Phillips  and  Joshua  R.  Giddings). 
written  in  a  vein  that  foreshadowed  and  even 
announced  the  poet's  position  in  the  great  anti 
slavery  revolution.  These  were  followed  In 
1845  by  "The  Vision  of  Sir  Lauufal,"  one  of  the 
most  exquisite  productions  of  his  gomus,  a 
poem  founded  on  the  legend  of  the  Holy  Grail- 
which  is  said  to  have  been  composed  in  a  sort 
of  frenzy  in  about  forty-eight  hours,  during 
which  the  poet  scarcely  ate  or  slept.  The  "Con- 
versations on  the  Poets"  was  his  [first  work 
in  literary  criticism,  and  was  the  basic  of 
his  lectures  before  the  Lowell  Institute.  1854-'6, 
and  of  his  lectures  in  Harvard  University  dur- 
ing his  professorship  of  modern  languages  and 
belles-lettres.  A  third  volume  of  poems,  con. 
taming  many  new  anti-slavery  pieces,  was  pub- 
lished in  1848,  and  the  same  year  was  brought 
out  anonymously  the  "Fablo  for  Critics,"  n 
youthfully  daring  but  amusing  and  racy  skit  at 
the  American  poets,  in  which  tho  laughing  au- 
thor did  not  spare  himself.  In  1840  a  collected 
edition  of  his  poems  in  two  volumes  was  pub- 
lished, the  "Biglow  Papers"  and  "A  Year's 
Life"  being  omitted.  In  tho  mean  time  Lowell 
had  been  a  contributor  to  the  "Dial,"  the  "Dem 
ocratic  Review,"  tho  "Massachusetts  Quarterly 
Review,"  in  which  he  reviewed  Thorean's  first 
volume  in  18+9.  and  to  "Putnam's  Monthly"  iu 
lrfia  and  sovoral  years  later.  In  ltsOl  the  poot 
ami  his  wife  travelled  in  Europe,  visiting  Eng- 
land, Franco,  and  Switzerland,  and  residing  for 
some  tinio  in  Italy.  The  chiof  fruits  of  this 
Journey  werotbo  essays  on  Italian  art  and  liter. 


12 

aturo  and  Ins  eminence  as  astudont    audi 
prater  of  Dante,    In  tho  autumn  of  1  862  he  was' 
again  in  America,  and  in  October,  1853,  hi 
tained  the  greatest  sorrow  of   his   Ulo   in  the 
death. of  bin  wl'«\-  who  had  Ions  been  an  Invalid. 

..!;<.".},  on  Mr.  Longfellow's  resigna- 
tion, Lowell  was  appointed  his  successor  as  pro- 
fessor  of  modern  languages  and  belles-lettres  hi 
Harvard  University,  nnd  after  two  years'  study 
abroad,  during  which  time  bo  greatly  o.vtmided 
his  knowledge  of  Italian.  French,  and  Spanish, 
and  became  ono  of  the  lirst  authorities  in  old 
French  and  Provencal  poetry,  he  assumed  tho 
duties  of  his  professorship.  From  1357  till  18G3 
he  wrote  many  essays,  not  since  republished, 
for  the  "Atlantic -Monthly,"  and  in  1863  he  be- 
came, with  Professor  Charles  BHot  Norton, 
joint  editor  of  the  "North  American  Review,"  a 
connection  which  he  maintained  till  1872.  Tho 
"Atlantic  Monthly."  founded  in  1857,  of  which 
Lowell  was  tho  first  editor,  was  set  on  foot  by 
Holmes,  Longfellow,  Emerson,'  and  Lowell, 
and  Emerson's  study  was  the  scene  of  the  gath- 
ering of  the  great  literary  lights  of  Boston, 
when  the  enterprise  was  discussed  and  the 
character  of  tho  magazine  settled  upon. 

Tho  Kansas  struggle,  1856-'8,  enlisted  Mr. 
Lowell's  sympathies;  he  was  in  accord  with  tho 
leading  anti-slavery  men,  and  at  one  time,  says 
Frank  B.  Sanborn,  contemplated  transferring 
his  Hosea  Biglow  to  Kansas  to  report  in  the  ver- 
nacular the  doings  there,  bnt  "the  flighty  pur- 
pose nevt  r  was  o'ertook."  The  outbreak  of  the 
civil  war  caused  a  revival  of  the  dramatis  per- 
sons of  the  'Biglow  Papers,"  in  which  the  dis- 
unionists  at  homo  and  their  sympathizers  in 
England  vere  equally  brought  under  tba  lash 
of  his  stinging  satire.  This  second  series  of 
"Biglow  Pagers"  first  appeared  in  the'  Atlan- 
tic, and  was  published  in  a  volume  in  1867. 
The  "Fireside  Travels,"  containing  the  pleasant 
gossip  about  "Cambridge  Thirty  Years  Ago," 
the  delightful  "Moosehead  Journal,"  and  notes 
of  travel  on  tho  Mediterranean  and  in  Italy, 
had  appeared  in  the  mean  time.  The  Atlan- 
tic for  January,  18G7,  contained  "Fitz  Adam's 
Story,"  a  poem  intended  to  form  part  of  a  long- 
er one,  "The  Nooning,"  which  had  been  an- 
nounced as  about  to  be  published  as  far  back  as 
1861,  but  has  never  been  completed.  It  was 
omitted  from  "Under  the  Willows,  and  other 
Poems,"     with    the     following    explanation; 

"  'Fitz  Adam's  Story,'  which  some  good  friends 
will  miss,  is  also  left  to  stand  over,  because  it 
belongs  to  a  connected  series,  which  it  is  hoped 
may  be  completed  if  the  days  should  be  propi- 
tious." The  volumes  of  prose,  "Among  my 
Books"  and  "My  Study  'Windows,"  issued  in 
1870,  comprising  the  choicest  of  Lowell's  liter- 
ary essays,  seem  to  mark  the  close  of  his  greatest 
literary  activity ;  but  the  appearance  recently  of 
such  a  paper  as  that  on  the  poet  Gray  shows 
that  only  opportunity  was  needed  for  the  gath- 
ering of  the  maturest  fruits  of  his  critical  genius. 
In  1872  he  made  another  visit  to  Europe,  and 
on  his  return  the  Centennial  period  called 
out  his  efforts  in  the  production  of  three  patri- 
otic odes,  tho  first  at  Concord,  19th  April.  1875, 
the  second  under  tho  Washington  elm,  3d  Juiy 
of  the  same  year,  and  the  third  for"  Fourth  of 
July,  1876.  He  was  jk  Presidential  elector 
in  1876. 

In  1877  he  was  appointed  by  President  Hayes 
to  the  Spanish  mission,  from  which  he  was  trans- 
ferred in  1880  to  the  court  of  St.  James.  His 
diplomatic  career  closed  with  his  recall  by 
President  Cleveland  in  1885.  la  Madrid;  in  a^ 
atmosphere  congenial  to  him  as  a  student,  he 
sustained  the  honor  of  the  American  name,  and 
received  the  confidence  and  admiration  that 
had  been  formerly  extended  to  Washington 
Irving.  His  residence  in  London,  although 
clouded  and  saddened  by  the  long  Illness  and 
by  the  death  in  February,  1885,  of  his  second 
wife,  Miss  Frances  Dunlap  of  Portland.  Me., 
whom  he  had  married  in  September,  1867,  was 
as  honorable  to  him  as  to  the  country  he  rep- 
resented, an  unbroken  series  of  successes  in  the 


world  of  society  and  the  world  of  letters.  And 
no  man  in  our  generation  has  done  more  than 
Mr.  Lowell  to  raise  American  institutions  and 
American  character  in  the 'estimation  of  our 
English  kin.  His  graceful  and  natural  oratory 
was  in  demand  on  scores  of  public  occasions. 
j  The  most  noteworthy  of  his  public  addresses 
1  was  that  on  Coleridge,  delivered  at  the  unveil- 
ing of  the  bust  of  the  poet  in  Westminster  Ab- 
bey in  May,  1885.  The  volume  entitled  "De- 
mocracy and  Other  Addresses"  includes  the 
foreign  speeches,  and  those  spoken  at  the  dedi- 
cation of  the  public  library  of  Chelsea  and  at 
the  Harvard  anniversary.  Mr.  Lowell's  politi- 
cal life  is  confined  within  the  eight  years  of  his 
terms  of  othce  at  Madrid  and  London.  His  re- 
call brought  out  expressions  of  deep  regret  in 
the  English  press.  After  his  return  to  private 
I ifo  Mr.  Lowell's  home  had  been  with  his  only 
child,  the  wife  of  Edward  Burnett,  at  South- 
borough.  He  resumed  his  lectures  at  Cam- 
bridge, and  in  the  winter  of  1887  gave  a  course 
on  the  English  dramatists  before  the  Lowell  In- 
stitute. The  same  winter  be  read  a  paper  before 
the  Union  League  Club  of  Chicago  on  the  "Au- 
thorship of  Richard  HL"  In  the  summer  of 
1887  ho  again  visited  England,  receiving  every- 
where the  highest  honors  that  could  be  paid  to 
a  private  citizen.  The  degree  of  D.  C.  L.  was 
conferred  upon  him  by  the  University  of  Ox- 
ford in  1873,  and  that  of  LL.  D.  by  the  Univer. 
pity  of  Cambridge,  Eng.,  in  1874.  During  his 
residence  in  England  r.s  minister  he  was  elected 
rector  of  the  University  of  St.  Andrews. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  his  works  and  their 
various  editions:  "Class  Poems"  (1838);  "A 
Year's  Life"  (1841);  "Poems"  (1844);  "The  Vi- 
sion of  Launfal"  (1845-48);  "Conversations  on 
Some  of  the  Old  Poets"  (1845);  "Poems"  (1848); 
"Tho  Biglow  Papers"  (1848);  "A  Fable  for 
Critic"  (l«48);  "Poems"  (two  volumes.  1849); 
"Llfo  of  Koats"  (1854);  "Poonis"  (two  vol- 
umes, 1864);  "Poetical  Works"  (two  Tolumes, 
1858);  "Mason  and  Slldell— a  Yankee  Idyl" 
a  863);  "Firesldo  Travels"  (18C4);  'The  Presi- 
dent's Policy"  (1864);  "Ode  Recited  at 
the  Commemoration  of  the  Living  and  Dead 
Soldiers  of  Harvard  University"  (1865);  "The 
Biglow  Papers"  (second  series,  1867);  "Under 
tho  Willows,  and  Other  Poems" (1869);  "Among 
My  Books"  (1870);  "The  Courtin'"  (1874); 
"Three  Memorial  Poems"  (1876);  "Among  My 
Books"  (second  series,  1876);  "Democracy  and 
Other  Addressses"  (18S7X 

Mr.  Lowell  combined  prcat  literary  activity 
and  voracious  reading  with  his  professorship 
duties.  He  was  one  of  tbe  fow  men  who  could 
read  steadily  in  one  book  twelve  or  sixteen 
hours  on  a  stretch  and  retain  in  memory  what 
he  had  read. 

The  professorship,  which  he  held  down  to 
his  departure  for  Spain,  he  filled  with  remark- 
able success.  Ho  '.%  rs  a  treat  favorite  with  the 
undergraduates,  owing  to  the  unfailing  cour- 
tesy of  his  manners,  the  total  absence  of  all  use 
of  authority  in  tho  lecture  room,  and  his  undis- 
guised admiration  of  youth  and  freshness, 
which,  it  used  to  bo  jokingly  said,  mado  it  very  | 
hard  for  him  to  give  a  low  mark  to  a  good-look- 
ing, well-mannered  young  follow.  At  the  reci- 
tations, too,  hU  marvellous  fullness  of  knowl- 
edge constantly  four..!  vent  in  talks  on  the  book 
or  topic  under  examination,  which  were  in  tho 
hlphest  degree  stimulating  a*  well  as  interest- 
ing. 

Mr.  Lowell's  nrst  wiio.  to  wnom  no  was  wed- 
ded in  1844,  was  Miss  Maria  White -of  Wntcr- 
town.  hersolf  a  poet  of  culturo;  her  death  was. 
commemorated  in  Longfellow's  poem,  "The- 
Two  Angels."  Hih  second  wife  was  a  niece  of 
ex-Govornor  Robert  P.  Dunlap  of  Maine.  8h» 
was  stricken  with  typhoid  fever  while  with 
her  husband  at  Madrid,  and  after  sev-. 
eral  days  of  critical  illness  her  physician 
pronounced  her  doad,  but  it  was  discov- 
ered that  sha  was  merely  in  a '  coma- 
tose condition,  and  with  great  onro  she  was 
finally  restored.  After  a  slow  convalescence 
she  was  able  to  rejoin  Mr.  Lowell  in  London, 


whither  in  the  meantime  he  had  been  trans- 
ferred as  minister,  but  she  never  fully  recov- 
ered from  the  effects  of  this  experience,  and 
died  Feb.  19, 1886.  By  his  first  wife  Mr.  Low- 
ell had  four  children,  only  one  of  •whom  sur- 
vives. Mabel,  wife  of  Edward  Burnett.  Mr. 
Lowell  was  very  successful  at  the  court  of  8tJ 
James. 

It  has  been  decided  that  the  funeral  services 
shall  be  held  on  Friday.  All  the  arrangements 
will  be  made  by  Mr.  George  Putnam,  who  Is  at 
present  at  Manchester. 

•  I  ~MM" "^* 


TWO    LOWELL    INCIDENTS. 


Two  incidents  that  made  a  marked  impres- 
sion upon  the  public,  placing  Mr.  Lowell  tem- 
porarily in  a  fierce  fire  of  criticism  that  only  bet- 
ter proved  the  pure  gold  of  character  tried  and 
not  found  wanting  are  recalled  now.  One  was 
the  incident  of  his  Chicago  lecture.  Mr.  Lowell 
bad  been  invited  by  gentlemen  to  speak,  as  he 
supposed,  before  gentlemen  of  one  political 
faith  on  a  topic  of  politics.  He  went  to 
Chicago  and  found  that  the  enterprising  mem- 
bers of  the  club  that  had  asked  him  had  with 
the  freshness  of  enthusiasm  and  a  great  and 
unthinking  youthfulness,  hired  a  big  hall  and 
advertised  their  guest's  lecture  as  a  great  at- 
traction. A  magnificent  audience  was  eager 
to  hear  him;  bat  a  man  who  held  a  position 
like  that  of  Mr.  Lowell  oould  make 
no  sacrifice  of  personal  dignity.  He 
went  to  the  hall,  since  be  was  adver- 
tised, and  be  spoke  to  the  people  on 
the  most  radical  literary  topic  ho  was 
prepared  to  speak  upon.  Now  thero  are  no 
conservatives  in  certain  matters  like  the  re- 
cently enlightened,  and  Mr.  Lowell's  filchard 
TIL  lecture  incensed  the  Chicagoan,  even,  more 
than  his  not  speaking  on  a  political  subject. 
They  found  it  hard  to  forgive  him  or  (collec- 
tively) to  understand  why  he  acted  as  ho  did. 
There  were  however  many  individuals,  men 
and  women  of  fine  feeling  and  generous  culti- 
vation who  appreciated  most  warmly  the  dig. 
nity  of  the  action,  and  took  pleasure  In  the 
theories  advanced  about  Richard  III 

The  other  incident  recalled  is  that  of  Mr. 
Lowell's  famous  passage  at  arms  with  Julian 
Hawthorne.  Soon  after  the  return  of  Mr.  Low. 
ell  from  England,  young  Hit thorae,  who  was 
writing  for  the  New  Tbrk  World,  went  to 
Southborough  where  Mr."  Lowell  ^vas  stay- 
ing with  his  daughter.  Hawthorne  was 
welcomed  heartily  by  the  old  friend  of  his 
father;  they  spent  a  long  afternoon  togeth- 
er and  Mr.  Lowell  talked  with  the  greatest 
freedom  of  English  affairs,  doubtless  putting 
into  his  talk  more  or  less  of  that  whimsical  half- 
critical  spirit  which  one  member  of  a  family 
may  use  in  speaking  to  another  member  of  a 
third.  In  such  spirit  one's  just  or  final  estimate  of 
a  brother  is  never  given,  and  Mr.  Lowell  did  not' 
dream  as  ho  walked  to  the  station  with  Julian 
Hawthorne.talkingwith  th  is  sort  of  f  reedom.that 
all  he  said  and  much  more  than  he  ever  dreamed 
of  saying  would  appear  in  print  with  flaming 
headlines  in  the  New  York  World.  It  did  ap- 
pear, however,  over  the  signature  of  Julian 
Hawthorne.  Hawthorne  accused  of  betraying 
a  fricud,  wrote  and  said  he  told  Mr.  Lowell  be 
was  on  the  New  York  World  aud  Mr.  Lowell 
knew  he  was/  being  interviewed.  Then  Mr. 
Lowell  wrote  a  letter  to  the  Advertiser 
to  say  he  did  not  know  this  was  in- 
tended. With  boyish  vehemence  Hawthorne, 
who  of  course  believed  himself  a  jour- 
nalist when  be  was  not,  wrote  and 
repeated  his  assertions  and  Mr.  Lowell  was 
forced  to  say  in  a  printed  letter  that  it  must  be 
left  as  a  question  of  veracity  between  himself 
and  the  son  of  his  old  friend.  Julian  Haw- 
thorne was  afterwards  forgiven  by  Mr.  Lowell. 


IS 

Tiie" whole  all'air,  which  had  at  first  seemed  to 
put  Mr.  Lowell  into  the  position,  horribly  in- 
congruous for  a  diplomat  lately  returned,  of 
making  free  with  the  royal  family's  foibles  and 
criticising  witb  bitinx  sarcasm  and  picturesauo 
personal  vituperation  matters  of  policy  in  a 
foreign  nation,  which  no  diplomat  could  dis- 
cuss with  dignity,  only  served  to  show  him  at 
'■he  last  in  a  still  more  gracious  light. 


paof.-TtJwrrrr^*" " 

Lowell's  illness  is  a  source 


% 


Prof. 

serious  concern  to  his  friends  and  to  thd 
public  who  are   aware   of   Ibe  circum- 
stances attending  It.    Though  a  consid- 
erably   younger   man    than     Emerson, 
Longfellow,    Whittier  aud  Holmes,  he  ( 
has  done  more  varied  work  than   any  of 
them,    from    the   constant,  a  tteution  he 
has  Riven  to  public  affairs^    Besido  be- 
ing   a   poet,  an  essayist  and  a  humorist,  < 
and    in    all  of   the  first  rank,    he    has! 
beeD  a  political  writer  from  the  time  he  ( 

first     engaged in  _,.  Qdftoiship-r*.-'Htfifi 

the  Anti-Slavery  Standard.  His  es- 
says upon  the  political  state  of 
the  country  In  Putnam'sJMagazine  and- 
in  tbe  Atlantic  Monthly  in  the  period 
preceding  the  war,  are  the  most  effec- 
tive discussions  of  the  kind  that  have 
appeared  In  our  country,  and  will  rank 
with  the  best  political  essay  writing  of 
the  Edinburgh  and  the  Quarterly  Re- 
views of  England.  His  speeches  anb$ 
lectures',  while  on  the  mission  to  Eng- 
land imd  soon  after  his  return,  are  of 
f  highest  order  of  ability.  Mr.  Lowell' 
began  his  political  life  by  b-  ing  among 
the  extremest  radicals,  but  he  has  con- 
stantly grown  conservative  as  he  ad- 
vanced in  age.  He  has  b  en  one  of  the 
truest  American?,  and  one  of  the  most 
faith  ml  to  the  support  of  moral  ideas  li 
politics  and  In  public  life,  through  it  ai 


Jaaie3  itus'selFIofwell. 

The  death  of  the  foremost  American  in 
the  world  of  letters  will  scad  a  thrill  of 
pride,  together  with  the  pang  of  grievous 
loss,  through  the  breast  of  every  country- 
man  of  the  dead  poet  who  has  any  appre- 
ciation of  his  genius  and  his  achievements. 
The  new  world  has  given  another  of  its 
sons  to  join  the  little  company  of  those 
who  may  fairly  be  held  to  have  won  undy- 
ing fame  in  the  6ervico  of  beauty  and 
truth,  and  the  consciousness  that  nobody 
survives  to  fill  the  place  left  vacant  by 
Lowell's  death  cannot  make  Americans 
rejoice  the  less  in  the  luster  which  he  has 
shed  upon  their  country  and  their  name. 

Europe's  ripest  civilization  could  not 
produce  a  more  rounded  and  gracious  per- 
sonality or  give  a  more  rich  and  varied 
store,  by  the  hand  of  one  man,  to  the 
world's  treasures  of  scholarship  and  beauty. 
The  poet,  essayist,  diplomat,  teacher,  ed- 
itor, and  orator  who  has  passed  away  at 
Cambridge  was  in  many  respects  the 
mjst  gifted  man  of  his  times. 
Neither      in      America      nor    elsewhere 


can  there  be  fouud  a  poet  who 
approached  him  in  power  nnd  beauty 
that  might  for  a  moment  be  thought  of  as 
h is  rival  in  the  diplomatic  service  of  a 
great  nation,  in  finish  and  force  as  a  pub- 
lie  speaker,  or  in  mastery  of  prose  in  all  its 
forms.  As  editor  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly 
and  of  the  North  American-  Review,  as 
Minister  of  the  United  States  at  Madrid 
and  London,  ns  professor  in  Harvard  Uni- 
versity, nnd  as  an  essayist  in  whose 
pages  power  and  beauty  of  thought 
find  expression  in  classic  prose  such 
as  no  other  American  could  command, 
James  Russell  Lowell  would  have  been 
assured  of  an  honorable  place  in  the  his- 
tory of  his  country  even  though  he  had 
n<.t  touched  the  highest  level  yet  attained 
by  American  poetry. 

It  may  be  contended  with  much  force 
that  he  was  too  much  the  scholar  and  man 
of  affairs  to  be  the  greatest  of  his  country's 
poets.  Lowell  himself  has  recorded  his 
judgment  that  he  prcaciied  too  much  for  a 
devotee  of  the  beautiful.  Be  this  as  it 
may,  there  is  no  donbt  that  he  proved  in 
more  than  one  immortal  poem,  his  ability 
to  reach  heights  never  passed,  if  attained, 
by  any  of  his  countrymen.  Hia  work  in 
that  realm  where  his  genius  found  its 
fairest  field  of  labor  is  very  uneven  and 
marred  by  many  blemishes.  None  will 
deny  that  much  of  his  verse  is  wholly  un- 
worthy of  its  author.  But  shall  a  poet  be 
judged  by  his  worst  or  hia  best?  If  the 
latter  is  the  true  standard  then  the  author 
of  the  "Commemoration  Ode,"  the  "Vis- 
ion of  Sir  Launfal,"  and  many  more 
masterpieces  was  the  Tennyson  of  America 
and  a  poet  worthy  of  the  be3t  age  of  any 
nation. 


MR.    LOWELL'S 


Exactly  what  caused  Mr.  Lowell's  death  Is 
not  at  present  known,  but  it  Is  understood  that 
gout  brought  on  liver  trouble  and  led  to  other 
complications,  too  great  to  be  resisted  by  a  man 
of  Mr.  Lowell's  age  and  feebleness.  Last  Sun- 
day a  bowel  trouble  developed,  making  his 
case  absolutely  hopeless. 

It  appears  that  the  poet  was  taken  sick  about 
five  weeks  ago.  His'  old  physician  and  friend. 
Dr.  Morrill  Wyman,  being  abroad,  the  doctor's 
son-in-law,  Henry  P.  Wolcott,  M.  D„  was 
summoned  to  take  charge  of  tke 
case.  It  Is  understood,  too,  that  Dr. 
Wyman's  advice  by  mail  was  called  for. 
Two  professional  nurses  were  put  on  duty,  so 
that  there  was  never  a  moment  When  the  pa- 
tient was  not  closely  watched.  About  two 
weeks  or  more  ago  ho  became  delirious,  and  up 
to  Monday  he  recovered  consciousness  only 
at  brief  Intervals,  when  he  gave  mem- 
bers of  his  family  ^Igns  of  recognition. 
He  seemed  to  think  he  was  far  away  from 
home  and  appeared  to  long  to  get  back  to  Elm- 
wood  and  his  family.  At  times,  too,  he  fancied 
be  was  entertaining  royal  visitors.  Though  un- 
qoestionably-tM  pain  was  very  great  he  made 
no  complafnt. 

Last  Sunday  he  seemed  better,  and  the  de- 
lirium left  him.  On  Monday  he  appeared 
-brighter  than  at  any  time  during  his  long  Ill- 
ness.     Up     to     that     time  -  the     room     had 


been  cool,  but  he  then  began  to  show 
the  effect  of  the  heat  On  Monday  after, 
noon, '  when  the  nurses  changed  the  bedding, 
be  suffered  Intensely  when  moTed,  and  finally 
said,  "Oh!  why  don't  yon  let  me  die?"  These 
words  were  his  last.  He  seemed  from  that 
time  to  lose  heart,  and  gradually  his 
life  faded  away.  He  continued  in  a  coma- 
tose condition  until  2.15  o'clock  this  morning, 
when  the  last  spark  of  life  went  out.  Beside 
him  in  hi*  last  moments  were  the  sister  of  his 
first  wife,  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Edward  Burnett, 
•nd  her  husband,  tbe  ex-congressman,  as  well 
as  the  nurses  and  the  servants  of  the  house- 
hold,  to  whom  he  had  always  been  so  kind  that 
a  strong  attachment  had  sprung  up. 
■  There  is  one  touching  incident  In  connection 
■with  this  matter.  It  appears  that  Dr.  Wyman, 
when  informed  of  Mr.  Lowell's  illness  men- 
tioned to  sonic  friends  in  England  that  the  dis- 
ease would  undoubtedly  result  fatally.  This 
led  to  the  writing  of  a  letter  of  sympathy  to 
Mra.  Burnett,  who  thus  received,  a  few  days 
ago,  her  first  intimation  of  the  serious  aspect  of 
her  father's  case.  '  Since  that  time  she  has  been 
constantly  at  Elmwood. 

Dr.  Bartol.  of  Boston,  says  that  Lowell 
owed  a  great  part  of  his  powerto  his  mother, 
and  adds:  "She  was  a  woman  ol  such  force 
of  character  that  nor  admiring  physician 
had  frequent  opportunities  to  tost,  cor  wit 
and  will,  and  his  own  signal  determination 
found  6uch  a  foil  as  save  him  occasion,  with 
characteristic  quaintness.  to  remark :  'Had 
it  pieosed  the  Lord  to  drop  her  spirit  into 
the  pantaloons  ebo  would  have  been  a  great 
general.' "  .    _ 

T*  RfWEiJSs  i  'iXTrrJW*  L'~ 
The  death  oi  MY,  Lowell  has  tot  been 

an*     u  eti  '■.  nml  '  ,;  ;'    i'  an  evi1      ; 
which  the  public  wast  otpn    nr<  .  •■ 

public  had  fondly  hoped  thai  Ins  illness 
was  not  critical  "i    final,  and   his  death 
will   be  a  shook  to   Mi.     thousands   to 
whom  ho  was    endeared   by   his   writ- 
ings  and   by    Ids   private  and   public 
services.      He    Has    ranked    for  many 
years   among   our   most   eminent   men 
of    letters,    and    in     this    communitj 
was  our  chief  authority  In  literature  and 
in  the  higher  lines  of  rolitio;>l  teaching. 
His  address  on    The  Place  of  the.  Inde- 
pendent in   Politics"  has  not  been  for- 
gotten,    nn«l      his      Birmingham     ad- 
dress    on    "Democracy"    made   a   pro- 
found    impression     in     England.      In 
recent      years      his      public      services 
have    obscured     to    some     extent    his 
literary  tame.      Yet  he  did  not  sink  the 
man  of  letters  in  the  diplomat  while  in 
England,    and     his    literal}     addresses 
delivered     while    he   was  at  the  court 
of    St   .Limes  make  one  of  his  most  in- 
terest in-i   volumc.i.      He    was    a    many- 
sided  man.     Rut  he  wasclnefly  and  fore- 
most a  man  of  letters,  a  thoroughly  a< 
coniplished  scholar,  one  of    the    raiosi, 
and  most  completely  furnished  men  in 
belles   lettres    that    Harvard  has  over 
produced,     'lis  work  .it  Harvard,  where 
he     succeeded     to     Mf.      Longfellow's 
position,  brought  him  iniocontac.t  (vltli 
the  rising  literary  men  of  the  present 
generation,  ami   he  had  much  to  do  with 
the       direction      of      their      thought 
Still     more     had     he     to     do    a*    an 
editor  with  this   work.     In  the    Atlan- 
tic for  several  years,  and  later  on  in  the 


14 

North  American  Review,  he  did  what 
was,  perhaps,  the  most  notable  work  of 
his  life.  Before  that  time  the  lirst  series 
of  the  "Biglow  Papers"  had  appeared, 
and  he  had  obtained  fame  both  by  his 
early  poems  and- by  certain  prose  essays, 
as  well  as  by  a  work  entitled  "Conversa- 
tions on  the  Qld  Poets,"  which  is  net  in- 
cluded in  hi3  collected  writings.  In  1858 
he  was  at  the  trysting  time  of  h is  develop- 
ment; at  the  point  oi  doing  his  besi 
work.  He  was  midway  through  his  life, 
full  of  the  stir  of  genius  and  lu  the  daily 
companionship  of  the  men  who  fed  upon 
his  wit  and  were  in  sympathy  with  his 
ideas. 

Perhaps  no  other  American  has  (  ouuted 
for  so  much  in  our  literature  :  s  Sir. 
Lowell,  if  you  measure  his  position  by 
the  double  standard  of  p.\reHence 
of  cultivation  and.  breadth  of  jield. 
Mr.  Longfellow  was  a  poet,  and  stood 
apart  from  the  active  interests  of  life 
Mr.  Emerson  was  a  seer  and  thinker, 
but  you  had  to  go  to  Concord  to  find 
him.  Mr.  Lowell  was  t>oth  a  genius  and 
a  working  literary  man,  and  he  w;<s  h, 
touch  with  all  the  active  forces  in  Amer- 
ican letters.  Few  aspirants  to  author- 
ship in  America  failed  to  consult  him, 
and  no  one  came  from  abroad  who  did 
not  visit  hf in.  He  was  the  soul  of  the 
Saturday  Clnb,  where  Agassi?  ana  Lonp- 
fellow  and  Emerson  and  Holmes  were 
his  peers,  and  there  was  great  comfort 
in  New  England,  and  particularly  in 
Boston,     in     knowing     that    over    In 

Cambridge  dwelt  a  man  w  ho  stood  con- 
fessedly at  the  head  of  our  literature. 
Mr.  Lowell  has  done  notable  work  in 
several  distinct  departments  of  letters. 
Ee  has  been  poet  and  essayist  and  critic 
and  humorist  and  political- writer  by 
turns,  and  In  every  department  in  which 
he  has  employed  his  strength,  his  work 
would  have  attracted  attention  if  he  had 
done  nothing  else.  His  poetry  has,  per- 
haps, given  him  most  fame;  certainly 
his  humorous  poetry  has  made  him 
known  wherever  the  English  language 
Is  spoken.  Hosea  Biglow  was  his  im- 
personation of  whatever  belongs  to 
the  Yankee  character,  and  it  is  a 
unique  creation  In  literature.  He 
never  did  anything  in  the  line  of  a 
genuine  creation  equal  to  this.  Dr. 
Holmes  in  "The  Autocrat"  was  not 
more  truly  dealing  with  original  ma- 
terials than  Mr.  Lowell  in  his  impersona- 
tion of  Hosea  Biglow.  Ills  serious  poetry 
is  largely  ephemeral  in  character.  It 
grew  ont  of  special  occasions,  and  was 
not  the  fruit  of  consecrated  effort.  "The 
Cathedral."  "The  Commemorative  Ode" 
and  "The  Vision  of  Sir  Launfal"  belong 
to  the  higher  order,  out  in  much  of  Mr. 
Lowell's  poetry  there  is,  not  a  lark  of 
power,  but  a  seeming  unwillingness  to 
give  bis  best  to  the  poetical  sentiment 
aud  to  the  higher  calls  of  his  nature. 
His  thought  and  spirit  were  akin  to 
those  of  Milton,  but  he  never  quite  rises 
to  the  plane  of  Miltonic  effort. 


Wo  must  look  in  other  directions  for 
what  is  best  in  Mr.  LowelL  It  is  in  his 
critical  writings,  both  political  and  lit- 
erary, that  we  find  him  at  his  best  Here 
he  is  Itle  to  use  his  wealth  of  scholar- 
ship and  the  ample  resources  of  his 
thinking  His  essays  on  Dante  and 
Chaucer  and  Shakespeare  arid  Words- 
worth have  worked  an  epoch  in  critical 
writing.  They  are  on  the  plane  of  the 
greatest  efforts  by  the  English  essayists, 
and  nothing  like  them  has  ever  appeared 
In  tliis  country.  Both  his  literary  and 
political  essays  were  chiefly  written  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five  years  ago,  when  he 
was  in  the  full  strength  of  his  faculties, 
and  w-ben  he  and  Prof.  Norton  made  the 
Nt  1  -h  American  Review  the  fore- 
mpst  organ  of  contemporary  thought 
then  to  be  found  in  the  F.ncllsh  lan- 
guage. In  estimating  his  writings  as  a 
whole,  one  instinctively  turns  to  these 
productions  as  his  best  work  Mr.  Lowell 
very-  early  entered  upon  the  study  of 
what  Ooethe  calls  world  literature,  and 
his  survey  and  estimate  of  literary  work 
were,  on  the  basis  of  a  knowledge  of  all 
the  great  literatures  of  the  world.  In 
reaching  a  judgment  <ft  his  services,  his 
distinction  as  a  diplomat  should  not  be 


If  not  a  politician.  Ife  was  eer3' 
tainly  a  statesman  in  his  command  of 
public  questions  aud  In  the  discretion 
which  he  brought  to  their  direction. 
The  nation  felt  honored  by  his  conduct 
as  an  English  minister,  and  he  brought 
not  only  the  literature,  but  the 
common  life  ,  of  the  two  nations 
closer  together  by  his  residence  in  Eng- 
land.  We  do  not  quite  apply  the  distinc- 
tion of  greatness  to  Mr.  Lowell,  but  In 
many  directions  he  was  foremost  among 
his  contemporar  ..  ,ul  if  he  had  given 
all  his  strength  to  one  or  two  things,  as 
Emerson  and  Longfellow  did,  he  might 

have  done  his  best  with   an  emphjwis. 
~  ■  ^w^j-.'v  ~  v  »* 

that  would  have  carried  him  into  the 
foremost  rank  of  men  of  genius.  If  we 
do  not  concede  to  him  the  highest  dis- 
tinction among  the  men  of  his  genera- 
tion, it  is  not  from  any  lack  of  apprecia- 
tion of  what  he  did,  but  from  the  convic- 
tion that  the  kindest  thing  to  be  said  of 
the  cue  whose  loss  we  mourn  is  to  speak 
the  truth  with  the  freedom  and  forcw 
which  he  would  have  employed  in  the 
Judgment  of  others. 

MR.  LOWELL'S  AMERICAKISM.  T 

The  condescension'  of  foreigners  whioh  moved 
the  indignation  of  Mr.  Lowell  to  such  an  elo- 
quent extent,  twenty-five  yean  ago,  has  as- 
sumed a  peculiarly  exasperating  phase  since 
his  death.  A  largo  number  of  small  English 
critics  are  explaining  that  Mr.  Lowell  was  not 
an  American  poet  at  all.  That  he  was  a  poet 
they  admit;  that  he  was  born  in  America  is  not 
to  be  doubted :  bnt  the  conjunction,  thoy  argue, 
did  not  make  him  an  American  poet  It  is 
perfectly  true  that  there  may  be  instances  of  a 
writer  so  entirely  foreign  in  thought  to  the 
count .,  of  his  birth  that  hit  nativity  alone 
places  him  n  the  catalogue  of  Its  authors.  But 
Mr.  Lowell  was  not  cue  of  these    Br  birth,  by 


training,  by  sympathy,  by  habit  and  by  will 
he  was  an  American  of  the  American*. 
He  wps  not  in  the  least  like  what  Englishmen 
rail  '"the  typical  American,"  because  the  "typi- 
cal American"  does  not  exists  In  manner  he  was 
like  thousands  of  cultivated  Americans,  and  in 
the  essentials  of  manner  cultivated  men  of  all 
nations  are  a  good  deal  alike.  Certainly  his 
manner,  his  dignified  genialty.  is  only  fonnd 
among  happily  cultivated  Englishmen.  Most 
assuredly  his  was  not  the  English  manner,  as 
that  term  is  generally  understood. 

If  as  a  poet  this  American  was  not  American, 
it  mast  ha  vo  been  because  his  thought  or  his  ex- 
pression was  on-American.  In  what  respect  was 
either  un-American?  Histhought  was  democrat- 
ic; in  its  highest  levels  it  did  not  forget  the  wide 
humanity  to  whose  hopes  and  fears,  blessings 
and  sorrows,  he  was  so  sensitive.  He  could  be 
classical,  but  his  mind  was  not  cast  in  the  an- 
tique mould,  and  if  his  verse  he  the  true  test. 
he  had  for  the  antique  an  artistic  sympathy, 
not  a  passion.  His  sympathy  with  democracy 
made  Mrn  one  of  the  most  expert  of  all  Ameri- 
cans that  ever  essayed  dialect  in  its  most  demo- 
cratic disregard  of  the  tyranny  ot  the  gram- 
marian. Snr»]y  the  "Biglow  Papers"  are  Amer- 
ican? And  what  is  there  in  "Sir  Lannfal"  or 
"The  Cathedral"  that  in  range  of  feeling  or  ex- 
pression  sets  Lowell  apart  from  his"  country- 
men? 

The  truth  is  that  Englishmen  have  set  up  for 
ii  test  of  Americanism  what  Is  only  a  phase  of 
Americanism;  for  the  type  of  America  what  is 
but  a  class  in  America.  There  Is  a  large  real 
America  to  which  Bret  Harte  is  foreign  and  for 
whom  James  Whltcomb  Riley  does  not  speak. 


15 

Ftmerals  of  a  Famous  Poet 
ami  an  Editor. 


"Quale  allodetta  cbe  in  aere  si  spiz:  \ 
r*i  una  canianiio.  e  poi  lace,  (-omenta 
Dell'  ultima  dolcezza  cb*  la  sazia." 

—Dani?  XX  Pvadisa, 


like  as  the  lark  that  soaring  higher  a; 
1  igher 
Sirifcth  awhile.  than  stops  as  't  were  conteti 
With  his  last  sweetness,  having  filled desi.t 
So  pauseft  our  bard;   not   for   bis   force   w 
spent 
Nor  that  a  string  was  loosened  in  his  lyre 
But  bavins  said  his  bust  and  done  his  best 

He  could  not  better  what  was  given  bet'oto 
And  threescore    vears  aud  ten  demanding  re 
Whispered— their     "onf   thec    on   the     >th 
fhore! 
An  i  now  hewalfcs  amid  the  learner,  throng 
Haply  "~ith  Him  who  v.  m  the  sixth  of  the 
Who  to-leered  above  the  multitude  ;n  sou;: 
Oi  by  the  side  of  Geoti'rey  Chaucei  yocs 
Who  shall  remember  with  his  woute  '  saii  c 
tTi  w  .'j.n)?.-  foun.i  music  tn  hi-.  •  ci     us  style 
But  we'll  nel  mingle  fas  c  •  .•  ■  iti      ur  tot ,t. 
>.o:  'torn  his  own  lrnucimuiou  bonow; 
Holmes,  who  is  left  us.   oest  could  speak  hi 

uiaise 
\\  ho  knew  his  heart  so  '.oil  and  ]>,■  eil  his  ia 
\\'<.:.  whom  lie:  reucrc  i  s  with  greater  lecgt! 
ffdara. 

T.  w.  Parsons 


TJIK  MEASURE  <">?  LOWELT/3   GREATNESS 

r  Wuih'V.  ,"  •  .   Poll.] 

Bu;  it  is  not  as  a  public  man  than  Lowell 
will  !>e  longest  remembered.  His  work  in 
literature  will  be  'us  most  enduring  momv 
im  nt  Perhaps  in  each  of  the  departments  o* 
literary  endeavor  his  may  have  been  equalled 
by  h  >me  contemporary,  or  even  surpassed 
Out  when  you  consider  Loweil  as  he  was— 
scholar,  uoet,  philosopher— you  find  thai  he 
occupies  a  unique  position  in  the  history  of 
American  letters;  and  the  more  the  matter  is 

•lsidered  the  moro  clearly  it  is  f-een  that  tho 
i  lerary  quality  in  him  uomiuates  the  speci&l 
inctlous  ol  his  visoi:*  tl  life,  wuother  as  p-^i 
policial-  oi  cruic. 


Services  Over  twilcrsains  of  J.  E\ 
Lovi'cil  and  George  Jones. 


Jlrr-Mayor  Phineaa  J.  Stoue  cf  Ota  :lee- 
town  Laid  to  Eest. 


Simple  and  brief  were  the  funeral  ser- 
vices bold  at  nooa  yesterday  over  tho  re- 
mains of  James  Ru-sell  Lowell  at  Appleton 
cliapel,  on  the  University  grounds,  Cam- 
bridge, a.j<i  extremely  simple  were  the 
floml  offerings. 

It  was.  however,  a  most  notable  gather- 
ing of  distinguished  men  and  women  who 
had  come  to  pay  their  respects  to  tho  dead 
poet. 

These  gentlemen  were  pall-bearers: 
Oliver  'Wendell  Holmes,  hi:  brother  John 
Holmes,  Hon.  E.  R.  Hoar.  Charles  V. 
81  >rey,  Prof.  Charles  Eliot  Norton,  Prof. 
Child,  President  Charles  F.  Choate  of  tho 
Old  Colony  railroa.!,  George  William  Curtts, 
William  Dean  Howells  and  ProL  John 
Bartlett 

Among  the  others  present  "were:  Hon.  K. 
B.  Anderson,  ex-United  States  minister 
to  Denmark,  who  came  to  Cambridge. 
from  Madison,  Wis.:  President  Eliot  of 
Harvard  College;  Frank  B.  Sanborn.  J.  G. 
Thorpe.  Jr.,  Kichard  H.  Dana  and  Mrs. 
Daua.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thorpe,  Rev.  Samuel 
Longfellow,  Mr.  H.  E  Scudder.  Mayor  A.  B. 
Alg<  c  of  Cambridge ;  Hon.  Leverett  Salton- 
Rtall,  Rev.  T.  P.  Prudden.  D.  D..  of  Chicago; 
Re-.  Edward  A.  R:.ud,  ProL  L.R.  Williston, 
Prof.  William  James,  Prof.  Cohert,  W.  C. 
Lane.  J.  J.  Myers,  George  H.  Welds.  Prof. 
Smith  and  Prof.  Mack  of  Harvard; 
Hon.  George  B.  Loring,  William  Aspin- 
wall.  Dr.  Abbott  of  Boston.  William 
Bowditcb  and  J.  I.  T.  Coolidge  of  Mr.  Low- 
ell's  class  of  '38  of  Harvard:  Dr.  H.  P.  >\  al- 
cott,  who  attended  Mr.  Lowell  in  his  last 
illnes«,  ex  Mayor  James  A.  Fox  of  Cam- 
bridge :  ex-:  vor  Samuel  Green  of  Boston  ; 
Rev.  Dr.  i  kxander:  K  D.  Mead;  • 
Livermoro  of  Cambs  ;  Dr.  Tbt  in 
Cunningham  of  Catnl  ridge:  E.  <  Hi 
Justin  Winsor.  the  l.u-.rian  of  Harvard 
College;  C.  B.  Tilhnghast.  State  librarian; 
H.  O.  Houghton,  Jr.;  Mr.  Frank  Gar 
rison:  Rev.  E.  G.  Porter  of  Lexing- 
ton: Postmaster  Arthur  '  rman  of  Cam- 
bridge; Hev.  H.  C.  Hi  W.  S. 
Clymer; Miss  Ellen  r.  >.  lar.g  te; 
of  Ralph  Waldo  Emers  !  ' 
son,  Dr.  A  t'  Feabod  \  ! 
Cambridge,  Proi  (icon  • 
Rev.  A.  B.  Mus.-ey  of  Cam  hi 
Charles  Thoo  lore  Ru^s-vi.  Kobert  .  . 
Jr. ;  Rev.  .James  Saliav.-a-  ,,:  edford  ':. 
Edwin  A  Algerof  Cambridge,  Prof'  l.  A. 
Dwyer  of  Richmond  University,  Prof.  H.  Vv , 
Williams  of  Harvard  ;  Frof.  Ware.  C  lumbi: 
College,  New  York:  Richard  \"  itson 
Gikler.  editor  of  the  Con  ur-  :  Mrs.  1  uv.:. 
Agassiz.  ilrv  Edwin  P  \\  hii  pie,  Mrs  Ann  • 
Cabot  Loo^e.  Mrs.  James  I.  F;f;  .,  >  , 
delegation  of  members  of  tho  Lo*-.!  U  rion, 
composed  of  Gen.  John  L.Ot;s.  Col.  Stenhen 
Ai.  Crosby,  (4«n.  Francis  A.  Walker.  Gen.  A. 
P.  M.irtin.  Col.  Charles  R.  Ccini:-!!.  Col.  T. 
W.  .-ligginson.  who  had  come  from  Dul)lin, 
X.H.,  to  attend  the  funeral .  Hon.  Frederick 
V\".  .Lincoln,  Col.  Henry  Stone,  William  En- 
dicott,  Jr.,  Col.  Henry  Leo,  Ma].  Russell  Stur- 
gis,  Col.  Arnold  A.  Rand,  Capt.  Nathan  Vp- 
ple ton.  Gen.  Edward  W.  Hinrks  and  Capt. 
Hii  am  D.  Shurtieff. 

Sor\ic?s  at  the  chapel  la-ted  less  than  half 
■■  hour,  and  then  the  interment  followed 
at  Ml.  Auburn. 

m  totjTH  ajmd  arANflooD. 


Commonwealth,    the    following    personal , 
!  tribute  to  the  memory  of  Mr.  Lowell: 

The  young  men  who  were  around  Mr. 
Lowell  in  his  college  davs  knew.  flXty  years 
ago,  that  he  was  to  b«  one  of  the  greatest 
pools  oi  the  time,  as  well  as  they  know  now 
that  he  has  achieved  that  promise.  The 
members  of  his  own  class  with  perfect 
unanimity  appointed  him  their  clxss  poet, 
and  this  was  not  before  he  had  written  and 
published  poems  the  sweetness  and  tender- 
ness cf  which  are  still  remembered. 

There  is.  indeed,  a  touching  anecdote,  per- 
fectly authenticated,  of  the  half  plaintive 
way  in  which  dear  Dr.  Lowe?!,  his  revered 
father,  said  to  a  friend  that  James  had 
promised  him  that  he  would  gfve  un  writ- 
ing poetry  and  would  take  to  study. 

Thero  is  hardly  a  father  in  the  world  w'io 
wouid  not  feel  gratified  if  his  son  at  the 
university  made  him  such  .a promise.  But 
as  one  raralls  the  story  now.  it  is  simply  to- 
be  thankful  that  Dr.  Lowell  misappre- 
hended the  j-recision  of  the  promise,  or4 
that  the  poet  found  it  imposnble  for  him  to 
make  good  his  words.  , 

The  instinct  of  the  poet  was  in  him,  and 
ii.  was  not  to  be  trampled  out  by  axiy  iirni 
resolution  of  the  studetit. 

The  university  did  not,  indeed,  show  its 
foresight  in  its  handling  of  one  who,  60 
years  after,  it  was  proud  to  make  its  orator. 

Tho  tradition  was  that  the  government 
were  very  unwilling  to  proceed  to  tho 
harshei-f  measures,  but,  at  the  very  last,  on 
the  central  point  of  pressing  lit?  attendance 
;t  charcl— where  ho  almost  always  founa 
b  'jiselttoo  late  for  entrance— he  was  sus- 
pended from  the  college,  and  -\;'s  not  able 
himself  to  read  the  poem  which  he  had  pre- 
pared for  class  day. 

Well  .lUtbenticated  tradition  says  that  he 

witnessed  the  ceremony  ot  th«j  dan  ■_•<»  around 

th°  trer    through  the  chinks  of  r.  covered 

wagon  to,  whiahJie  hii<Lrifldei^H*__£flife 

,  *<.)'!  u  was  his  piace  of  exile. 

T'i;.  loyalty  to  hia  alma  mater  ho—over. 
afterv<  showed  that  hi  took  no  offence 

;-•■  an.-  ..ar.Mirte^s  oi h"T  treatment.  And 
as  professor,  and  a.s  orator  o>-  the  great  day 
of  her  quarter-milienniuin,  hs  repaid  to  hT 
a '"undrod  fold  all  that  he  had  received 
from  her.  And  iu  all  that  h^has  do  tie  for 
lit  ..  ;u-e  and  education  in  America  he  has 
bo  ■ .-;-.  himself  not  un  worthy  of  her  host 
Itions. 

.-  isonoal  the  finest  illustrations  of  the 
r-  dlncss  with  which  America  submits  her 
dtp!  Hiiaiio.  business  to  men  of  conscience 
a  character,  without  asking  from  them 
what  is  called  a  diplomatic  education,  that 
Mi.  Lowell,  in  the  missions  to  Spain  und  to 
England,  discharged  so  admir-'blv  the 
duties  which  were  entrusted  to  him.  If  any- 
body  .supposed  that  here  was  a  mere 
man  of  letters,  iemorant  of  the 
of  action  of  men  of  affairs, 
Mr.  Lowell's  despatches  undeceived 
them.  He  was  appointed  as  I  sutomS",  to 
Engiand,  simply  because  he  wa->  the  most 
capable  diplomatist  whom  we  had  abroad. 
He  was  sent  to  Spain  nmier  :ha  in  I.ten  <>  of 
that  h.ippy  tradition  which  had  - ei  t  \l&*r~ 
liverett  there  ani  Mr.  Irvy»>K"v/itl 
tho  view  that  a  literary  marMwolt  repr-*/ 
sen'e.i  *'a'is  cotnitry  in  tb-\ jC'k azmi  fro-/ 
whose  archives  half  or- 

d.  In  Spain,  ho 
th: :  he  was  r.of  merely  i 
a  i,i  n  of  affairs,  and  rae  authorities  i 
Washington  honored  the  administrate 
when  they  transferred  him  to  the  po«fc> 
l.<^  nlon. 

!:  -r.r^  bis  retitm  to  thi*  countrj-,  -Mr.  Ix>^ 
ell  ha>  not  been  able  to  ;;^e  .,  veryiJctive? 
part  eithar  m  literature  or  in  puhlic  '.'airs.' 
Ho  felt  the  personal  losses  which  are  :he 
se\  res  i-enalry  of  advsach  life,  Tiio 
last  i  me  )  met  him  I  e  »nci  il  ..  >d  hrn 
thr  he  was  Rt  Elmwo.-.  m-;  '•  »v;d.  -^-'  " 
hw  rend    '  em  lit .  "V,  •«..  it     goodtolne 

'■    hoilse   is    ftlii    oi  ::.  ■-'>.". " 

it            it  '.vas.     C5ut  l.ac  •  .  i.  >:  5i  1-, 

lit'               •         '"','    '—   hi  :       '.  •    wi 

i  -   iwu  .    .'.  1  l! 

n .  -     ises  v  h     .0   h»* 
li.w   an    o    ,:  n  ooiiliafity,  AiTecf             > 

Uinieriiuipavuyt."-,t^,4-^.  ■ ' 


rary  man/ui  r->pr,/ 
m  thajf^harion  tio  f 
o-ir  htstorv  must-  if 
however,   h.  sh  >w« 
y  amati  of  letters,  b? 


Edward  Everett  Hale's  Personal  Tribute 
to  Mr.  Lowell's  Memory. 
Edward  Everett  Hale  writes,  in  tho  Boston 


LOWELL  GENTLY  CRITICISED. 

A  Carerul  Estimate  by  nti  Emluent  Eng- 
lish Littera.te.ur. 

J  From  t.  Lomlon  Athei.  'am,  Aii$.  22.  I 
An  evening  newspapor,  In  some  interest-. 
lns  reminiscences  of  Lowoll,  alluded  tho 
other  day  to  the  fact  that  my  own  friendship 
with  him  "began  in  a  tiff"— began  In  some 
warm  words  that  I  was  Impelled  to  addles* 
to  him  in  answer  to  certain  warm  words  of 
his  against  England.  Thj  anecdote  is 
true  enough;  and  it  is  also  true,  «s  the 
writer  of  the  paragraphs  goes  on  to  say,  that 
it  was  my  fortune  to  witness  "the  rise  and 
progress"  of  what  certain  Americans  called 
his  "Anglomania,"  until  at  last,  when  he  be- 
gan to  praise  our  climate,  I  was  obliged  as 
an  honest  cosmopolitan  to  check  such  fervid 
John  Bullism. 

The    truth    is   that  Lowoll,   having    been 
thrown  into  the  best  circles— best,  I  mean, 
as  retrards  their  wide  knowledge  of  man  and 
of  men— discovered   (as  Emerson  had  done 
before  him)  that  the  voice  of  the  mob  of  New 
York  is.  in  its  Anglophobic   temper   at  least, 
as  far  off  from  being  the  voice  of  God  as  that 
of  any  people  under  the  snn.     Ho.  found  that 
between  an  American  of  th;  true    train  and 
an  Englishman  of  the  true  strain  Mure   is  a 
stronger  attraction  than  exists  1-  twosn  men 
of  any  other  strain,  however  to™'.   He  found 
that  John  Bull  la  not  qnite  so  offensively 
taurine  as  the  American  pressmen  paint,  him; 
that  he  is  not  In  the  habit  of  greeting  Jona- 
than with  "a  certain  condescension,"  nut,  on 
the  contrary,  is  in  the  habit  ■>(  treating   him 
as  an  absolute  equal  in  most  things,  and  as  a 
superior  in  some.  He  found  that  in  England, 
notwithstanding  an   ornainr  ital  monarchy, 
and  notwithstanding  an  aristocracy  not  quite 
so  ornamental,   there  Is  as    much   personal 
liberty  as  in  America  and  a  little   more.      Iu 
fact  he  found  himself  (as  every  American   of 
the  right  strain  finds  himself)  extremely  com- 
fortable in  England.      And  he  dared  to  say 
so.      No   doubt     an     average     Englishman 
would  In  like  circumstances  nave  rejoiced  to 
speak  out.      But  then  the  earthly  paradise 
has  not  yet  eome  in  England.      English   in- 
telligence and  culture  and  good  breeding  are 
not  as  vet  under   the   feet   of    Whitechapel. 
Lowell  knew  very  well  that  his  comfortable 
lite  in  Lowndes    square    would  be   adjudi- 
cated upon  at  the  New    York   gutters   and 
that  the  verdict  would  be  "Too  darned  com- 
forble."     Like  every  American,  ho   had  in- 
herited a   respect   for   that  gutter    verdict 
which  to  English  people  is  a  little  puzzling. 
But  what  he  nad  to  do  was  to  tell  the  truth, 
"tha      whole      truth      and      nothing     but 
the  truth."      He   told    It,    and   the    gutters 
took  offence.    In  courage,  In  truthfulness,  in 
everything,  he  was  the  type  of  the  Puritan 
idea  in  its  most  bracing  expression,  as  Haw- 
thorne (a  man  of  rarer  and  finer  genius)  is  a 
type  of  fevered   Puritanism  on  Its  most  un- 
healthy side,    nis  courage,  his  honesty,  his 
proud  uncompromising  independence,  were 
all  his  own,  but    Puritanism   fostered  them. 
With  all  his  love  of  Ecgland,  America  did 
not  hold  a  more  loyal  son  than  he.    In  her 
glorious  destiny  he  had  a  faith  as  strong  as  it 
was  wise.    Though  for  many  years  America 
has  been  peculiarly  happy  in  the  ministers 
she  has   sent  to  St.  James's,  never  did   she 
send  a  nobler  son  than  Lowell,  and  never 
was  he  more  loyal  than  at  the  very  moment 
when  he  was  saying  those  kind  words  about 
England  which  angered    certain    Americans 
whose  loyalty  to  their  country  means  "bump- 
tiousness," or  else  a  selfish  hardening  of  the 
national  conscience. 

In  England  Lis  position  was  uniqne.  In 
the  high  places  of  our  land,  where  every- 
thing worthy  is  oherisbed  and  recognized  ex- 
cept pure  literature,  a  man  like  Lowell  and 
in  Lowell's  position  must  form  the  only  link 


16 

between  the  English  world  of  letters  and  the 
world  of  diplomatists  and  courtiers.  History 
will  have  to  record  that  this  state  of  things 
has  been  the  most  noticeable  and  interesting 
feature  of  the  present  reign,  but  It  will  point 
to  Lowell  as  the  man  who  formed  a  link  be- 
tween the  two  worlds.  Lowell's  only  true 
ambition  being  literary  success,  he  was  con- 
tinually moving  from  one  of  these  worlds 
into  the  other.  His  diplomatic  functions 
shed  lustre  upon  him  as  a  literary  figure, 
howsoever  little  his  literary  fame  may  hav.i 
added  to  his  position  in  that  other,  world. 

During  one  and  the  same  day  be  might  be 
met  lit  luncheon  at  the  house  of  a  certain 
great  poet,  at  a  flve-o'clook  tea  at  Mrs.  Proc- 
ter's, and  at  dinner  with  people  to  whom 
these  names  conveyed  some  meaning  per- 
haps, but  less  meaning  than  did  thi  name  of 
the  late  Mr.  Fordharu  of  Newmarket.  Bnt 
It  might  not  bo  easy  i<>  <r-y  at  which  house 
Lowell  made  himself  the  most  agreeable.  To 
talk,  as  many  Amoricans  have  talked,  of 
Lowell's  subserrtenoo  to  the  English  aris- 
tocracy is  to  talk  with  as  much  Ignorance  as 
spite.  That  stiffness  of  bearing  In  what  Is 
called  specially  "society,"  which  at  first  usea 
to  be  commented  upon,  but  which  soon 
passed  away,  was  simply  the  raw  expression 
of  an  invulnerable  independence  which  once 
was  rather  too  dogged  and  aggressive.  He 
used  to  speak  of  himself  as  being  an  exceed- 
ingly shy  man  by  nature.  On  one  occasion 
I  asked  him  to  lunch  with  me  to  meet  an 
eminent  man  of  letters  whom  he  had  never 
seen  and  wanted  to  see.  Noticing  that  he 
hesitated,  I  said— in  irony  of  course— "I  am 
afraid  that  the  American  minister  who  has 
jostled  most  of  the  grandees  in  Europe   feels 

shy."    He  said,  "I  do,  bnt  never  with  gran- 
dees." 

In  order  to  realize  what  was  the  temper  of 
the  great  Puritans  of  old,  such  as  Milton  and 
such  as  Cromwell,  It  was,  I  believe,  almost 
necessary  to  be  brought  into  personal  con- 
tact with  Lowell.  Puritanism  has  been,  and 
still  is,  a  favorite  butt  with  the  poets,  and  no 
doubt  in  England  lu  our  own  day  it  has  got 
so  mixed  up  with  blatant  quackery  as  to 
lend  Itself  to  ridicule.  But  this  is  not  so  in 
America  in  the  circles  where  Lowell  moved. 
Simply  noble  is  such  Puritanism  as  that. 
Have  those  who  sneer  at  it  ever  asked  them- 
selves what  true  Puritanism  Is?  Not  they! 
It  is  the  expression  of  a  deep  instinctive 
movement  of  man's  nature.  It  has  always 
existed,  and  its  function  has  always  been  to 
act  as  a  corrective  to  the  over-activity  of  the 

Sagan  instinct  which  leads  man  to  yield  to  tho 
emands  of  the  flesh.  "Without  Puritanism  tho 
human  raco  would  have  come  to  an  end  long 
ago.  Man  is  in  a  different  position  from  tho 
lower  animals.  In  yielding  to  the  indul- 
gence of  the  appetites  the  lowet  animals 
rarely  exceed  healthy  limits,  evi.n  in  feed- 
ing, and  never  in  sexual  intercourse.  The 
gorging  of  an  animal  like  tho  boa  constrictor 
(whose  dinuers  are  so  few  and  far  between) 
Is  hoalthy  and  necessary,  and  tends  to  pre- 
serve the  r;>ce  The  gustatory  appetite  of 
the  an'mal  J*,  nevei,  a*  in  the  case  of  the 
London  alrtn  ...ul.  lensed  and  flogged  into 
unhealthy  '.c'i  •  it;'  by  the  exercise,  of  a  rea- 
soning imagination  learned  in  the  niceiiei  of 
"calipash  and  calipee."  And  so  with  the 
sexual  appetite.  It  is  in  man  only  that  the 
mental  processes  come  In  and  Interfere  with 
the  economies  of  nature  ;  it  is  in  man  only 
that  increase  of  appetite  grows  by  what  it 
«eeds  on.  Without  the  Puritan  instinct 
for  self-dominance  the  pryjan  instinct  for 
self-indulgence,  wtang  to  unhealthy  ac- 
tivity by  man's  mental  processes,  would 
long  before  Buddha's  time  have  played 
havoc  with  tho  raco  In  the  groat  struggle  for 
life.  That  Vngll-di  Puritanism  when  plant- 
ed In  the  New  World  should  flourish  there 
with  mor«  vigor  than  ever  It  llourtshed  in 
Europe  ww  In  th«  ttkt"re<n.tliU)«srv-The' 
oirt,  slinplc;'sfngle-handed  strugglewith  Na- 
ture was  there  in  a  measure  renewed,  and 
tho  very  instinct  of  self-proservation  de- 
manded a  vigorous  exercise  of  man's  self- 
doTMtivui' •  ,  otherwise  the  "Injun"  and  the 
bnckwoi  *s  combined  would  have  made  short. 


work  with  him.  It  was  inevitable,  there- 
'ore,  th:»t  the  Puritan  element  in  man  shonld 
Uourlsh  there,  and,  indeed,  boar  anew  frnlt 
racy  of  the  soil.  And,  surely,  a  splendid 
fruit  it  Is.  Although  America  has  in  late 
years  produced  no  man  in  whom  has  been 
exhibited  so  much  of  the  old  Puritanical  tire 
as  was  shown  by  Gordon,  still  it  may  well  be 
said  that  the  greatest  and  strongest  man  of 
our  time  was  Lincoln,  and  that  great  as  Is 
the  distance  between  him  and  Garfield,  no 
Englishman  can  properly  be  set  between 
them. 

To  give  literary  voice  to  the  best  form  of 
Puritanism — such  as  this  was  the  glory  of 
Lowell.  Puritanism,  indeed,  lives  at  tho 
heart  of  all  that  he  ever  wrote;  it  lives  in 
his  humorous  work  with  ae  much  vigor  ae  it 
lives  in  bis  serious  poetry.  All  humor  is,  of 
course,  the  expression  of  a  sense  of  the  in- 
congruity of  things  as  they  are  when  .com- 
pared with  some  ideal  standard  existing  in 
the  humorist's  mind.  The  Incongruity  be- 
between  the  Christianity  of  Christ  and  the 
Christianity  advertising  itself  from  one  end 
of  America  to  the  other  is  the  subject  matter 
of  all  Lowell's  humorous  work.  If  the  doc- 
trines of  the  New  Testament  were  nut  into 
general. practice  for  a  single  day  In  tne  coun- 
try that,  besides  a  few  true  Puritans,  has 
produced  llarnum,  Jay  Gould  and  McKln- 
loy.  the  entire  structure  of  civilization  would 
fall  down  like  abouse  of  cards.  In  America 
as  in  England,  Christianity  is  non-existent 
as  a  practical  creeds  and  rtils  is  by  far  the 
most  amazing  phenomenon  that  history 
has  ever  shown.  In  the  Buddhistic 
countries  there  is  a  real  relation 
betwi  n  tli;}  social  doctrine  and  |the 
social  organism.  It  is  the  same  with  Islam: 
but  in  the  so-called  Christian  countries  of 
the  Western  world  the  social  doctrine  and 
the  social  organism  contradict  each  other  at 
every  turn.  The  incongruity  is  absolute. 
Life  In  London  and  in  New  York  is  one  har- 
lequinade. It  is  Lowell's  apprehension  of 
this  incongruity  which  explains  what  has 
been  called  his  blasphemy.  A  disciple  of 
Christ  making  mouth*  at  the  blasphemous 
Jewish  mob  would,  be  jppen  to  the  same 
charge.  That  remarkable  poem  called  "Old 
Souls  to  Mend,"  bv  the  English  parable- 
writer.  Dr.  Gordon  Hake,  treating  the  same 
subject  in  the  same  temper,  has  also  been 
called  blasphemous,  and  with  the  like  lack 
of  reason.  The  same  sense  of  the  incongru- 
ity between  the  modern  Christianity  and  the 
doctrine  of  Christ  is  the  basis  of  several  of 
Lowell's  serious  poems.  In  the  poem  called 
"A  Parable,"  for  instance,  he  gives  a  picture 
of  Christ  returning  to  the  earth  In  order  to 
learn 

How  the  men  my  brethren  believe  in  me. 
The  motive  of  the  poem  is  the  incongruity 
between  the  pomps  and  splendors  of  the  pa- 
ganized  Christianity  that  receives  him  and 
the  kind  of  reception  he  expected. 

The  same  incongruity  is  expressed,  though 
in  a  more  obliqne  way,  in  the  "Vision  of  Sir 
Launfal,"  where  a  knight  who  has  travelled 
the  world  In  quest  of  the  Holy  Grail  finds 
that  the  cup  which  he  has  filled  at  a  stream- 
let In  order  to  quench  the  thirst  of  a  leprous 
beggar  is  the  very  Grail  itself,  and  that  the 
beggar  is  Christ.  In  each  case  an  udmirable 
conception  is  developed  with  geat  subtlety 
and  suggestlveness ;  but  in  each  case  the 
"criticism  of  life"  is  so  apparent  that  the 
poem  is  removed  from  the  region  of  pure 
poetic  art  'Perhaps  I  ought  to  say  exactly 
what  I  mean  by  challenging  the  poem 
because  it  is  a  criticism  of  life. 
It  is  always  difficult  to  know  when 
Matthew  Arnold  is  in  earnest  and 
when  he  is  playing  with  his  readers ;  but  if 
he  was  in  earnest  wiien  he  defined  poetry  to 
be  a  "criticism  of  life,''  he  certainly  achieved 
,  In  one  famous  phrase  a  definition  of  poatry 
which  for  whimsical  perversity  can  never  be 
surpassed.  Had  he  said  the  opposite  of  this 
— had  he  said  that  all  pure  literature  except 
poetry  may  be  a  criticism  of  life,  but  that 
poetry  must  be  a  simple  projection  of  life  in 
order  for  it  to  be  separated  from  prose — he 


might  perhaps  have  got  nearer  to  the  truth,  i 
although,  as  regards  prose,  it  must  not  bo 
forgotten  that  the  difference  between  writers 
like  Balzac  and  writers  like  Scott  is  this: 
that  inasmuch  as  the  one  criticises  Ufo,  while 
the  other  projects  it,  the  one  adopts  the  prose  ' 
method,  while  .the  other  adopts  the  poetic 
method. 

If  there  is  in  any  literary  work  a  true  pro- 
jection of  life,  it  must  sometimes  be  classed 
as  poetry,  even  though  the  writer  shows  but 
an  imperfect  conception  of  poetic  art.  Al- 
though much  of  Browning's  noble  and  bril- 
liant writing  is  a  "criticism  of  life,"  and  is 
therefore,  as  I  think,  not  poetry,  a  very  con- 
siderable portion  of  bis  work  is  poetry,  be- 
cause it  is  a  true  projection,  and  not  a  crtti-  I 
cism,  of  life.  But  Lowell's  verse  is  all 
"criticism  of  life."  Of  poetio  projection 
there  is  almost  nothing  at  all.  Most  noblo ' 
and  brilliant  and  splendid  writing  it  is,  to  be 
sure,  and  as  such  we  cannot  admire  it  too 
much.  It  was,  moreover,  ontirely  the  ex- 
pression of  his  own  individuality. 

In  life  his  most  striking  characteristic— ra 
characteristic  indicated  not  only  by  the 
watchful  gray  eyes  and  the  apparently  con- 
scious eyebrows  that  overshadowed  them, 
but  in  every  intonation  of  his  voice-  and  ] 
every  movement  of  his  limbs — was  a  marvel- 
lous sagacity.  Delightful  as  was  personal 
intercourse  with  him,  the  charm  was  not 
quite  undisturbed.  Every  now  and  then 
yon  felt  yourself  to  be  under  the  microscope 
Cil  a  Yankee  naturalist.  Yon  felt  that  you 
wer.i  being  examined,  weighed  and  classified 
for  America,  perhaps  for  Boston.  It  is  this 
sagacity  that  gives  /.ifo  to  his  prose,  "What 
is  riled  his  wit  is  merely  this  almost  preter- 
natural sagacity  in  rapid  movement.  What 
is  called  his  humor  is  this  same  sagacity  at 
rest  and  in  a  meditative  mood.  The 
obtrusion,  however,  of  sagacity  In  poetry, 
unless  it  be  in  worldly  verse,  is  fa- 
tal. Byron,  the  most  sagacious  of  all  nine- 
teenth-century poets  be/ore  Browning,  seems 
so  have  been  aware  oi  this  either  by 
intuition  or  reflection;  for  it  is  only  in  his 
poems  .vritten  iv  the  inock-beroic  vein,  such 
as  "Don  Jn  in,"  ''The  Vision  of  Judgment," 
"Beppo,"  etc.,  that  h6  allows  his  sagacity  to 
display  itself  and  interfere  with  the  impres- 
sion that  all  serious  poets  must  make  in 
order  to  be  accepted— the  Impression  of 
being  insp'rod  by  something  deeper  than 
sagacity.  But  the  odd  thing  is  that  Lowell 
as  a  critic  was  perfectly  conscious  of  all  this. 
The  vice  of  knowingness  was,  however,  the 
one  which  he  could  nevor  conquer.  To  sayl 
a  thing  epigrainmatically  and  brilliantly  v 
to  him  more  than  to  say  it  poetically.  The 
same  remark  applies  to  his  humorous 
Even  In  humour,  paradoxical  as.  It  n,,\  ap- 
pear to  say  >o,  the  humourist's  sagacity  may 
be  too  much  in  evidence,  if  it  inter- 
fere with  that  poolio  glow  which  belongs 
to  the  very  greatest  humour,  whether 
it  be  qi  Let  and  Cervantie  or  Rabe- 
laisian and  noisy.  In  all  first-rate  humorous 
work  the  basis  of  tb.0  structure  should  seem 
tii  bo  not  worldly  sagacity,  but  poetic  enjoy- 
ment illumined  and  stieugtbonod  by  worldly 
sagacity.  This  wili  be  seen  at  once  if  we 
compare  the  J'Man  Made  of  Money"  and  the 
"Chronicles  /of  Clovernook"  of  that  once 
popular  huxaorist,  Douglas  Jerrold.  with  the 
humor  of  Dickens,  even  when  the  latter  has 
passed  into  satire.  In  the  "Biglow  Papers" 
everything  seems  to  be  vitalized,  not  by  hu- 
morous enjoyment,  but  by  Lowoll's  kfton  ss_- 
Racily.  r,1P  M-ritor's  intention  tb~p6uFlnTor- 
lectnal  matter  Into  humorous  forms  is  too 
apparent.  The  highest  hjuroor  is  poetic  in 
its  substance  and  consists  of  a  projection 
rathi  t  than  of  a  criticism  of  life,  as  wo  sou  in 
a  thousand  instances  in  ahakspeare  and  in 
Sterne..    Christopher  Sly's  interjection— 

"  'T  is  a  very  excellent  piece  of  work,  madam 

lady, 
Would  't  were  done!" 

and  the  remark  of  tho  "foolish  fat  scullion" 
in  "Tristram  Shandy"  on  getting  the  news  of 
her  young  master's  death,  are  typical  ex- 
amples of  the  humorous  way  of  projecting 
rather  than  of  orltlcising  life  displayed  by 


17 

the  greatest  masters  of  poetic  humor. 

With  regard  to  Lowell  as  a  serious  poet, 
there  are  those  in  his  own  country  who  think 
that  in  seeking  the  poet's  orown  ne  was,  all 
his  life,  hunting  a  shadow. 

Immediately  after  the  death  of  an  eminent 
writer  it  is  not  pleasant  to  Indulge  in  any 
criticism  of  his  work,  except  that  of  a  lauda- 
tory kind;  but  it  is  very  specially  unpleasant 
to  do  so  when  the  eminent  writer  is  an 
American  and  the  critic  an  Englishman. 
Lowell  himself  was  wont  to  speak  of  the 
British  cntic  as  an  "insular  person,"  and  it 
is  undeniable  that  the  British  critio  is  a  per- 
son Jiving  in  an  island.  Geography  has  al- 
ways played  an  important  part  in  man's  con- 
ceptions of  man.  French  oriticism  is  not 
insular,  for  France  is  not  an  island;  and  the 
same  remark  applies  to  American  criticism. 
As  my  ideas  about  Lowell  as  a  poet  coincide 
with  those  expressed  in  the  following  quota- 
tion, I  think  it  wise  to  stand  behind  the 
buckler  of  so  good  an  American  as  Mr. 
George  S.  Hi  Hard: 

"Mr.  Lowell  has  more  of  the  'vision' than 
the  'faculty  divine.'  He  has  the  eye  and 
mind  of  a  poet,  but  wants  the  plastic  touch 
which  'turns  to  shape  the  form  of  things  un- 
known.' His  conceptions  are  superior  to  his 
power  of  execution.  We  are  reminded  in 
reading  his  poetry  of  the  observation  of  a 
judicious  critic  In  a  sister  art — that  the  pic- 
ture would  have  been  better  painted  If  the 
painter  had  tak;n  more  pains.  In  this  vol- 
ume there  is  more  of  the  ore  of  poetry,  but 
little  of  it  in  its  purified  and  polished  state. 
•  *  *  In  all  that  belongs  to  the  form  and 
garb  of  verse  there  is  room  for  great  Im- 
provement." 

The  critic  dwelling  on  an  island  who  should 
dare  to  write  In  this  way  about  any  Ameri- 
can poet  must  needs  be  a  bolder  man  than  I. 
But  it  is  amusing  to  observe    the  way  in 
which  other  American  critics  speak  of  poetic 
art  as  being  a  thing  apart  from  poetry  itself. 
To  say  that  form  is  essential  to  poetry  Is  not 
enough.    In  the  deep  and  true  sense  poetry 
is  form.    Even  in  prose  the  way  of  saying 
the  thing  in  pure  literature  is  as  important  as 
the  thing  said.    It  Is  science  that  deals  with 
the    Ueratand  of  man.      For  pure  literature 
has  only  to  do  with  the  Yemunft,  leaving 
science  to  address  the  Verstand;  and  as  there 
is  so  little  to  tell  the  soul  which  it  does  not 
already  know,  and  did  not  know   ages  and 
ages  before  Homer  chanted  the  "Iliad,"   the 
way  of  telling  it  is  almost  everything,  even  in 
prose.     "Le  *tijl»  e'est  I'homme"  has  thus  a 
deeper  meaning  than  Bnffon  himself  supposed. 
But  in  poetry  the  way  of  saying  the  thing  is  of 
the  first  importance,  asLowellthe  critic  well 
knew,  or  be  would  never  have  said   (follow- 
ing Wordsworth},    "In  all  real  poetry  the. 
form  is  not  a  garment,  but  a~~  rJoayT"    That  ft 
man  of  Lowell's  amazing  gifts    should  not, 
when  be  set  himself  to  write  in  verse,  apply 
his  own  principles  to  his   own  work  would 
be  scarcel}    conceivable  were  it  not  for  cer- 
tain   other  examples  which  shall  be  name- 
less.   No    poet  with  a  true  ear  could  so  per- 
sistently throw  the  accent  upon  weak  words 
as    he   does    in    that    tine   poem  the  "Com* 
memoration  Ode."    He  is  constantly  forget- 
ting that    underlying   all  rhythms    is     the 
rhythm  of  nature,  the  froo  movement  of  the 
thoughts  and  emotions  passing  into  words; 
and    that,     as     I    have    said      on     a     pre- 
vious   occasion,    the    object    of    all    metri- 
cal   expression  is  to  achieve   such   complete 
mastery  over  the  metrical   form  adopted   as 
to  make  it  seem  this  free  movement.  '  The 
simpler  the  metrical  form,  the  more  easily 
can  this  movement  be  rendered  by  means  of 
verbal  melody.      But  In  all  metres  the  poet 
should  never  rest  till  he  has  made  the  struc- 
tural emphasis  peculiar  to.  the  form  meet  and 
strengthen  the  natural  emphasis  of  the  emo- 
tion.      Wherever  there  is  a  sense  of  effort  in 
reading  a  poem,  such  as  wo   experienced   in 
reading  the  "Harvard  Ode,"  the  "Sir   Laun- 
fal,"   and  the  sonnets  of  Lowell,  It  arises 
from  a  struggle    between    the    rhythm    of 
nature  and  the  rhythm  peculiar  to  the  metri- 
cal form,  such  as  is  nevor  seen  In  the  work 
of  the  great  masters,  but  such  as  is  constant- 


ly seen  in  Lowell,  and,  indeed,  in  most 
American  poets  except  Poe  and  one  or  two 
living  writers.  The  relation  between  quan- 
tity and  accent  in  modern  metres  seems  to  be 
!  almost  ignored  In  America. 

As  a  critic  Lowell  was  one  of  the  best 
equipped  men  of  our  time.  His  reading  was 
both  thorough  and  wide,  and  he  never  ceased 
to  be  a  reader.  His  studies  of  Dante  and  of 
Dryden  would  alone  give  him  a  high  place 
both  as  a  student  and  as  a  critio.  The 
'Dryden'  is  an  unequalled  performance. 
There  is  scarcely  a  sentence  in  the  essay  that 
does  not  coruscate  with  intelligence,  and  al- 
most the  same  thing  may  be  said  in  regard 
to  the  'Dante.'  As  to  Dante,  however,  it  is 
a  remarkable  fact  that  poets  who  make  a 
special  study  of  the  great  Italian  seem  to  be 
but  little  influenced  by  his  supreme 
method.  Dante's  masterful  conciseness 
and  starlike  purity  of  style,  scornful  of 
adjectives,  even  those  of  color  and 
form,  were  the  special  admiration  of  Bosettl. 
as  they  were  of  Lowell ;  and  yet  one  remained 
as  absolutely  uninfluenced  by  the  Dantesque 
method  as  the  other.  Is  it  that  the  richness 
of  Shakspeare  and  those  who  have  followed 
in  his  wako  has  so  dazzlod  the  English  imag- 
ination that  the  high  clarity  of  Dante  Is  out 
of  their  compass  ?  If  so,  it  is  a  pity,  for 
Dante's  style  is  so  pure  and  so  high  that  it 
may  be  called  the  Ideal  style.  By  the  side 
of  him  other  poets  may  all  be  called  man- 
nered. It  is  tho  voice  of  Nature  herself 
speaking;  and  if  it  is  the  fact  that  a  poet  of 
high  order  like  Bosetti  oan  give  his  days  and 
nights  to  Dante  and  yet  fail  to  seize  any  one 
of  nis  excellences,  while  the  voice  of  Snaks- 
peare  is  recalled  in  many  a  lovely  turn  and 
daring  image,  It  shows  how  impossible  it  is 
to  escape  the  influence  of  poetry  written  In 
one's  mother  tongue.        Theodore  Watts. 

--.lames  Russell  Lowell   3n.ee  wrote  in  an 
album: 

Too  pressed  to  ivalt,  npon  hor  slato 
Fame  writes  a  name  or  two  in  doubt; 
Scarce  written,  these  no  longer  ploase, 
And  her  own  fin«or  rubs  thorn  out: 
It  may  ensue,  fair  chl,  that  you 
Years  hence  this  yellowing  leaf  may  see. 
And  put  to  task,  you*  memoiy  ask 
In  rain,  "  This  Lowell,  tvl>n  was  bo  ?" 


> 


LOWELL    TUB    ClTIZfSif.j^^ 
Jomes  Bussoll  Lowell  was  the  first  citizen 
of    Massachusetts.      He  filled    tlds   exalted 
position  by  virtue  of  the  impartial  opinion  ol 
those  of  his  contemporaries  best  able  to  de- 
cide as  to  his  high  qualities  of  mind  and 
heart,   his  manly  individuality  and  courage 
to    accomplish    whatover    duty    demanded. 
The  influence  which  James  Busseli  Lowell 
!  exerted  on  the  intellects  and  consciences  of 
Americans,  by  means  of  his  pen,  cannot  be 
dissociated    from  that  volume  of    humane 
forces    which    finally   gave    us    a  free    re- 
public   in    reality,    buj    it     was     notable. 
He    never    waited    for     public    opinion  to 
form  itself  in  the  right  way  as  he  conceived 
',  it.    His  mental  and  moral  constitution  had 
i  no  such  drawback.    He  recognized  the  obli- 
gation that  he  should  do  a  man's  work,  and 
j  nobly  he  did  it  all  through  life,  In  stimulat- 
ing popular  thought  to  meet  and  overthrow- 
the  great  evils  which  had  become  a  part  of  our 
representative  system.      As  personifying  In 
part  the  majesty  of  therepublic  abroad,  Mr." 
Lowell   recommended    the    country  whose 
diplomatic  agent  he  was  by  his  nobility  of 
character  and   unshrinking  purpose,  while 
maintaining  the  honor  of  the  nation  which 
looked  to  him  for  advancing  its  international 
prestige,  that  the  power  vested  in  him  should 
never  directly  or  Indirectly  aid  in  lessening 
friendlyrelations  between  England  and  the 


United  States. 

Mr.  LowellVaa  one  of  that  type  of  poli- 
ticians who  elevate  politics  by  their  connec- 
tion with  it;  and  the  swarms  of  partisans 
who  are  continually  buzzing  around  for  pre- 
ferment and  place  should  contemplate  his 
career,  and  look  up  to  him  as  a  pattern  and 
exemplar.  Office  was  never  necessary  for 
a  citizen  Of  Mr.  Lowell's  cast.  It 
was  when  he  was  in  a  feeble  and  despised 
minority,  preaching  the  truth  in  almost  in- 
imitable verse  that  his  real  self  shone  the 
most  Tesplendently.  Of  his  enviable  position 
in  the  republic  of  letters  the  opinion  of  the 
civilized  world  has  been  so  often  registered 
that  it  requires  no  gift  of  prophecy  to  say 
it  will  never  be  reversed. 

Born  to  the  best  social  position,  so  far  as 
family  name  and  lineage  may  count  in  this 
country,  and  not  oblivious  to  such  considera- 
tions in  the  choice  of  his  associations,  Mr. 
Lowell  never  wrapped  himself  up  in  the  pur- 
ple, or  was  satisfied  to  dwell  in  the  Cam- 
bridge colony  of  hermits.  He  considered 
himself  none  too  good  for  open,  working  as- 
sociation with  politics,  agitations  and  social 
movements  of  many  kinds.  Whosoever 
were  like  himself  interested  ardently  in 
helping  on  civilization  and  his  country — 
even  were  they  "long-haired  men  and  short* 
haired  women"— were  his  fellows.  Mere, 
wealth  and  Its  possessors  as  such  he 
simply  treated  as  beneath  notice,  and 
he  was  as  unconscious  of  the  attempted  pa- 
tronage sometimes  extended  to  him  in  such 
quarters  as  he  was  of  angry  abuse  for  his 
heterodoxy  in  party  politics.  Of  the  cheap1 
criticism  as  to  his  fondness  for  things  British, 
one  characteristic  trait  of  English  public  men 
he  Introduced  in  his  own  person — individu- 
ality and  Independence ;  and  no  importation 
could  be  better  to  engraft  upon  our  too  easy- 
going, compliant  American  temper  and  habit 
of  thinking  down  to  what  we  call  the  "avei»| 
age  man."    ,  _^^ '-' 

TO  UrSEPULCHRE 


it  SEP1 

lib  will  R 


Lowell's  Remaik  will  Rest  In  Mt  Auburn 
—Bishop  Phlips  Brooks  will  Conduct 
the  Services 

Today  the  moral  remains  of  James  Rus- 
sell Lowell,  Arnica's  illustrious  poet  and 
diplomat,  will  ^consigned  to  their  grave 
in  the  family  lotpt  Mt  Auburn. 

The  funeral  Btangements  are  complete 
and  will  be  undej  the  especial  charge  of  Mr. 
Edward  Jackson 

The  cortege  wD  leave  the  Lowell  home- 
stead shortly  bebre  noon,  and  proceed  to 
the  Appleton  chtpel,  Harvard  University, 
where  services  W;ll  be  conducted  by  Bishop 
Phillips  Brooks.  Assisted  by  Dean  William 
Lawrence  of  Si  John's  Episcopal  theo- 
logical school.     [  [ 

Mr.  Warren  A.  Lock,  chorister  of  Harvard 
University,  will  have  charge  of  the  music, 
and  the  TeinpleAquartet  will  render  selec- 
tions. \ 

The  following'  pallbearers  will  aot  as 
escort  from  the  bouse  to  the  chapel:  Presi- 
dent. Charles  F.  Choate  of  the  Old  Colony 
railroad:  Mr.  «Toh«  Bartlett  of  Cambridge. 
Prof.  Charles  Elio>.  Norton  of  Cambridge, 
Oliver  Wendell  H«lmes,  Johb  Holmes,  W. 
D.  Howells,  Christopher  P.-  Crsncb. 


His  Lines  on  Death. 
Following  are  some  lines  from  the  dead 
poet's  pen  on  death:  .. 

My  love,  1  bave  no  {ear  that  thou  sfiuldst  Am: 
Albeit  I  ask  no  fairer  Ufa  than  this* 
Who*>  Tiumberingclock  Is  soil  thy  gentle  kin, 


18 

While  1 1  rue  and  Peace  with  hands  mloeked  fly. 

Vet  care  I  not  when  In  eternity     ,* 

We  live  and  love,  wall  knowing  tint  there  Is 

So  backward  step  for  those  who  ftel  the  bliss 

Of  faith  m  their  moat  lofty  yearniiga  high; 

Lore  hath  so  purified  my  being's  eVe 

Meseerns  I  scareely  should  he  starlcd  even 

To  find  nome  mom  that  ihon  had?!  tone  before: 

Since  with  thy  love  this  knowledge,  too,  was  given— 

Which  each  calm  day  doth  strengthen   more  and 

more — 
That  they  who  love  are  hut  one  step  from  heaven. 
J  axes  Bcsszu.  Lowell. 


Condolence  from  the  Queen. 

The  Queen  of  England  has  conveyed  her 

regret  at   the  news  of  Mr.  Lowell's  death. 

Mr.  Burnett  received  the  following  message 

yesterday: 

WASBniOTOX,  Aug.  13, 1891. 
To  the  lion.  Edward  Burnett.  Cambridge,  Mass. : 

The  British  minister  at  tins  capital  has  forwarded 
to  this  department  the  following  telegram  from  the 
Marquis  of  Salisbury: 

"The  Queen  desires  to  express  her  sorrow  and  re- 
gret at  the  news  which  has  Just  reached  '.his  country 
(England)  of  Mr.  Lowell's  death. 

William  F.  Wuabtoi;, 

Acting  .Secretary  of  State. 

LOWELL'S  LAS?  POENtT 

Written    u     Yenr   Ak"    mid  •Printed   «",ni» 
Winter,     tfosfawJourtta./ 
TJ'O   last    poem  of   Mr.   Lowell's  wl  i 
published    In    an    American      journal    is    His 

"My     Krook."      It    appeared     in     ilio     New 
York     Ledger's     Christmas     issue.      Dec.     13, 
1890.   in   a    four-page   souvenir   appendix, 
was  illustrated  with  four  large  cuts  tr  ■,   di 
lugs  of  Wilson  de  Mezn-      Mr.  Lowell  wrote  Ibe 
poem  while  he  was  in  England  iu   tho  summer 
of  1800.  ana  subsequently  reviW  it  on  seeing 
the  proofs.    The  amount  paid,  for  it  was  $1000. 
The     poem    excited    varying    opinions    an 
critics,  but  all  praised  it  for  its  music,  its  polish 
and  graceful  diction,     Tho   poem    is   given    in 
part  below: 

MT  BROOK. 
It  was  fnr  np  the  valley  we  fiist  pltelred  troth, 

When  tlie  hours  were  so  many,  the  duties  so  few; 
Earth's  burthen  weighs  wearily  now  oh  us  both— 

But  I've  not  forgotten  those  deai  days;  have  you  .' 

Earh  was  first  born  of  Eden,  a  morn  without  mate, 
And  the  bees  nod  the  birds  and  the  bntterr.es  thou   lit 

'Twas  the  one  perfect  day  ever  fashioned  by  fate, 
Kor  dreamed  tne  sweet  wonder  lor  us  two  was  wrought. 

I  loitered  beside  yon  the  whole  snnuner  long, 
I  gave  von  a  life  from  the  waste-flow  of  in  ne; 

And  whether  you  babbled  or  crooned  me  a  song. 
I  listened  and  looked  till  mt  pulses  ran  wine. 

'Twas  but  shutting  my  eyes;  I  conldseo,  Icouldhca., 
How  yi'U  danced  there,  my  nantch-girl,  'mid  flag-root 
tnd  fern. 

While  the  fashing  tomauns  tinkled  Joyous  and  clear 
On  the  slim  wrists  and  ankles  that  flashed  In  their  tarn 

Ah.  that  was  so  long  ago  I     Ages,  it  seems, 
And.  now  I  return  sad  with  life  and  Its  low. 

Will  they  flee  my  gray  presen.-e.  ttic  light-foot!  rt  die.im«. 
And  Will-o'-wisp  light  me  Ins  lantern  nD  moro ' 
•  ••-••*  •  « 

The  life  that  I  dreamed  of  was  never  to  he, 
For  1  with  my  tribe  into  bondage  was  sold. 

And  tie  tun  gleams  and  moon  gleams,  your  elf -gifts  to  me. 
The  miller  transmutes  Into  work-a-aay  gold. 

What  yon  mint  tor  the  miller  will  soon  melt  away; 

It  is  earthy,  and  earthy  good  onlr  It  buys. 
Bat  tr.t  shekels  you  tost  me  are  (ate  from  decay; 

They  wars  coined  of  the  sun  and  the  moment  that  flies. 

Break  loose  from  yonr  thraldom '.     TIs  only  a  leap; 

Tour  eyes  'tis  bnt  shotting,  just  holding  yonr  breath; 
Escape  to  the  old  days,  the  days  that  will  keep. 

If  there's  peace  In  the  mid  pond,  sola  there  in  death. 

'  en  are  mine  and  no  other's;  with  life  of  ray  life 

1  made  you  a  Xatad,  that  were  bnt  a  stream; 
Id  the  moon  are  brave  dreams  yet,  and  chances  are  rift 

Eot  the  oosslon  that  vent  ares  its  all  on  a  dream. 
Leapt  bravely '    Now  down  through  the  meadows  we  11  go 

To  the  Land  of  Lost  (ays,  whither  all  the  birds  wing. 
Where  the  rllnl*  move  backward  and  asphodels  blow; 

Cum*  flash  yonr  tomauns  again,  dance  again,  slngt 


Tea,  flash  them  and  clash  them  on  ankle  and  wrtsl, 

for  we're  pugTlms  to  Dreamland.  O  Daughter  of  Dream ! 
|  There  we  flna  again  all  tliat  we  wasted  or  ovist. 

And  fancy— poor  tool!— with  bar  bauble's  supreme. 

As  the  M  oora  in  their  exile  the  k  eyi  trsasnrstl  sttn 
Of  tbelr  castles  In  Spain,  so  have  I;  and  uo  fear. 
I  Bnt  the  docrt  will  fly  oweo,  whenever  we  will, 
,    To  the  prime  of  the  1  ast  and  the  sweet  of  the  year. 


MR.    LOWELL    AS   A    TEACHER. 

[From  the  Boston  Globe.] 
'  After  much  persuasion  Mr.  Lowell  harj 
been  induced  in  1883,  after  his  return  from. 
England,  to  occupy,the  chair  of  Smith,  pro- 
fessor of  the  French  and  Spanish  language* 
and  literatures  and  professor  of  belles  lettrerf 
i  at  Harvard.  / 

His  subject  was  Dante,  the  '"Vita  Nuova* 
and  the  "Divina  Cominedla." 

A  few  men  began  at  once  the  study  of 
Jtalian  and  by  sticking  hard  at  it  during  the 
summer  were  able  to  get  Mr.  Lowell's  per- 
mission to  enter  the  class]  and  yet  there 
were  not  over  half  a  dozen  men  on  his  list  as 
regular  students  says  a  writer  in   the  Globe. 

The  lectures  were  held  In  a  room  in  the 
old  University  building.  Up  to  tho  time  that 
Mr.  Lowell  conducted  this  course  the  walls 
had  been  bare,  excepting  here  and  there  a 
puzzling  map,  showing  some  matters  related 
to  political  economy ;  Dut  Mr;  Lowell  swept 
out  the  uncanny  charts  belonging  to  the  dis- 
mal science,  and  brought  down  from  "Elm- 
wood"  a  great  many  engravings  and  photo- 
graphs of  Old  World  cities,  palaces  of  the 
Medici,  the  bronze  doors  of  Gilbherti  and 
Brunelleschi's  dome  which  Michel  Angelo 
hung  on  St.  Peter's,  until  the  old  rude-fur- 
nished room  was  thoroughly  freed  from  all 
signs  of  the  late  dreary  hobgoblin  presence)1 
as  if  it  had  been  blessed'  and  sprinkled  withy 
hyssop  and  holy  water. 

Mr.  Lowell's  method  of  instruction  was* 
fitted  for  university,  not  foT  college,  work. 
It  was  true  research,  the  desire  for  learning 
for  its  own  sake,  not  the  study  for  discipline, 
nor  for  the  information  alone,  but  the  culti- 
vation and  storing  of  the  mind  for  the  pleas- 
ure in  the  acquisition.  There  was  no  delay 
with  syntax  or  prosody. 

An  hour  and  a  half  at  a  time  was  given 
to  the  poem  in  hand;  Mr.  Lowell  had  the 
class  read,  or  he  himself  read,  right  on, 
throngb  good  and  bad. 

As  some  in  the  class  read  the  text 
slowly,  Mr.  Lowell  broke  In  -at  quick  Inter- 
vals with  comments,  criticisms  adverse  or  fa- 
vorable. Now,  the  wilfulness  and  superilu- 
onsness  of  tho  rhyme  was  pointed  out ;  even 
the  crueller  part  of  Dante's  genius  was 
exhibited,  all  in  tho  easiest  manner,  as  if  the 
students  were  a  group  of  visitors  at  "Elm- 
wood"  drawing  out  the  man  of  letters  on, 
poetry,  men  and  places. 

Towards  the.close  of  the  hour  Mr.  Lowell' 
talked.  The  class  sank  into  silence.  There 
were  no  more  questions,  and  for  the  re- 
maining fifteen  minutes  ,Mr.  Lowell  read, 
larding  the  soft  language  of  the  text  with 
personal  talk,  reminiscent  in  character,  full 
of  incidents  from  his  years  in  Italy.  Giotto's 
I  bell  tower  and  the  little  Arno,  shrunken  -by 
the  summer  sun,  were  sketched  in  few  words 
to  the  imagination  of  the  students  on  the 
benohes. 

The  lines  "Font  il  mio  bel  San  Giovanni" 
caused  him  to  tell  of  the  children  whom  he 
saw  baptized  Just  where  Dante  was  chris- 
tened so  long  before.  And  then  quicklv  he 
returned  to  the  tremendous  story  of  the  in- 
fernal precipices,  black  whirlpools,  the  odor 
of  huge  loathsomeness,  the  giants  at  twilight 
standing  up  to  the  middle  in  pits. 

Suddenly  the   professor,  glancing   at  his 

|  watch   on   the  desk,    stopped,    bowed   and 

quickly,  walked  out  of  the  room,  the  men 

rising  to  their  feet  respectfully  as  he  passed. 


19 


Mb.  Lowell  had  a  honor  of  dead-heading, 
as  appears  from  the  little  not*  he  wrote  to  Mrs. 
Caroline  Hall  Washburn  upon  her  sending  him 
•  ooable  of  complimentary  tickets  to  a  parlor 
entertainment,  at  which  his  presence  would 
have  been  nothing  short  of  a  boon  and  a  boom. 
There  Is  a  ray  of  the  true  gem  in  the  delicacy 
and  wit  of  every  little  memento  of  the  poet- 
diplomat  that  comes  to  light,  such  as  this: 

68  Beacon  Street,  Jan.  4. 1889. 

Dear  Mrs.  Washburn:  I   shall    hope   to   obey  ' 
your   orders  on    Monday,  and   shall  if  not  hin- 
dered by  so, no  fore*  mujrure. 

1  have  sold  oue  of  ttie  tickets  you  kindly  lett 
with  me,  and  shall  expect  to  pay  for  the  other. 
As  «>▼  wi''i  approach  nearer  and  nearer  to  ex- 
tinction, I  am.  not  mi  naturally,  more  jealous  of 
be'n?'  "deadheaded."  1  conceive  a  personal  ap- 
ojl'cation  in  ii  Faithfully  jours. 

J,  &  LOWBW.. 

LOWELL'S  EARLY  DAYS 

*:<!•    :ird       Crriril      Slula       I^nr*     « 
iljote  »u  the  .>l#morr  of  "'*  tA-icod. 

liJward  KYcrelt  Hale  writes  in  part  thus 
o  Hoston  Commonwealth  of  Mr.  Lowell: 
ho  •lentil  of  Mr-  Lowell  will  bo  heard  with 
all  people  who  ose  the  1  i>:^uatro 
lid  used  80   vvelL     In   this  neighborhood. 
i  bich  Is  his  home,  there  is  a  world  of 
,  M'rucollectlonsof  the  utmost  tenderness, 
ilcltened  bv  the  announcement  that 
,>  not  to  sec  his  face  agaiu,  or  meet  his 
lutatiou.    lhe  young. n>en  who  were 
i  Mr.  Lowell  m  his  college  days  knew,  60 
that  lie  was  to  be  one  of  the  greatest 
tie  timo,  as  well  a3  they   know  now 
ts    achieved    that  promise.      There 
is     indeed,    a     touching    anecdote,    perfectly 
mlicated,     of     the     half    plaintive    way 
tn     K'hicb    dear    Dr.     Lowell,     bis     reverend 
said     to     a    friend    that   James    had 
him    that    he    would  give  up  writ- 
ing poetry  and  would  take  to  study.    There  is 
hardly  a  father  In  the  world  who  would  not  feel 
gratified  if  his  son  at  the  university  made  him 
such  a  promise.    But  as  one  recall*  the  story 
now,  it  Is  limply  to  be  thankful  that  Dr.  Lowell 
prehendod   the  precision  of  the  promise, 
or  that  the  poet  found  it  impossible  for   him    to 
make  uood  his  words.    The  university  dm  uot. 
Indeed,  show  Us  foresight  in  its  handling  of  one 
:  tt y  years  after,  it  was  proud  to  make  in 
ho  tradition  was  that  the  government 
very    unwilling     to     proceed     to     the 
a       measures,       but,      at      the      very 
,lio      central      point     ol     piojsiiisr 
tnce    at    chapel— whore    ho  almost 
.:iu  himself  loo  late  for  entrance— h"^ 
was  suspended  from  the  college  and  was  uot 
able  himself  to  read  the  poem  which  he  bad 
it.kI    for    Ciasn    Day.       Well-authenllcateJ 
says  that  he  witnessed   th.?  ceremony 
:ce  arouu'i  tbe  tree  through  ihe  chink3 
of  a  ccverod  wagon   in   which  ho  iiad  ridden 
i.  •  r.eord,  which  was  his  ulaceot  evile.  Bis 
:.y  to   his  aim*  mater,  however,  afterward 
slioued   that  ho  took  no  olfence  for  any  harsh 
nets  of  her  treatment 

It  is  one  of  the  niiest  illustrations  of  the  readi- 
ness with  whicti  America  submits  her  diplc 
matic  business  to  men  ot  conscience  and  char 
actei,  without  asking  from  them  what  is  called 
a  diplomatic  education,  that  Mr.  Lowell,  In  the 
missions  to  Spam  and  to  England,  discharged  so 
admirably  the  duties  whicli  v.ere  intrustod  to 
biiii.  it  anybody  supposed  that  here  was  a 
mere  man  of  letters,  ignorant  of  the  ways  of 
action  of  men  of  affairs.  Mr.  Lowell's  disoatches 
undeceived  them.  Since  his  return  to  this 
count  y  Mr.  Lowell  has  not  been  able  to  lake  a 
very  active  part  either  in  literature  or  in  cublic 
alfairs.  But  whoever  has  met  him  has  found 
the  old  cordiality  and  simplicity  and  rcidinoss 
to  render  service  where  service  came  within  his 
power.  He  felt  the  personal  losses  which  are 
the  severest  penalty  of  advancing  life.  Xbo 
last  time  1  met  him  I  congratulated  him  that  he 
was  at  Elmwood.  and  he  said,  with  his  tender 
smile,  '  Yen.  It  Is  good  to  be  there,  but  the  bonso 
is  full  of  ghosts.'  And  so  indeed  it  was.  But 
he  could  not  be  morose;  ho  would  not  oppress 
his  friends  with  the  story  ot  any  of  his  own  re- 
grets; and  the  last  and  earliest  memories  which, 
we  have  of  hint  are  of  his  cordiality,  affection 
and  lender  sympathy.'' 


THE  FUNERAL. 


The  death  of  James  Russell  Lowell  has 
awakened  in  me  a  long  train  of  recollections. 
I  knew  him  when  he  was  a  little  boy.  He 
was  ten  years  old  and  I  was  sixteen  when,  in 
1827-8,  we  both  attended  as  day  pupils  the 
boarding-school  of  Mr.  William  Wells  in 
Cambridge,  which  was  ntarly  opposite  to  the 
house  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lowell,  James's  father. 
In  that  house  James  was  born,  and  he  had 
the  rare  good  fortune  to  live  in  it  all  his  life, 
except  when  he  was  abroad.  His  first  wife, 
Maria  White  of  Watertown,  was'  my  second 
cousin.  She  was  a  most  intellectual  person, 
of  highly  spiritutlle  nature,  and  her  influ- 
ence in  developing  in  him  a  propensity  to 
literary  pursuits  was  very  great.  Her  con- 
stitution was  extremely  delicate,  and  she 
died  early,  leaving  a  daughter,  her  only 
child,  now  Mrs.  Burnett. 

I  remained  at  Mr.  Wells's  school  only  one 
year.  In  August,  1828, 1  entered  Harvard 
College,  leaving  "Jimmy  Lowell,"  as  we 
called  him,  still  at  the  school.  Mr.  Wells 
was  an  Englishman,  married  to  a  lady  who 
was  a  member  of  the  Best  family  in  Boston, 
and  they  had  three  grown-up  daughters  and 
two  younger  sons.  Mr.  Wells  was  a  fine 
classical  scholar,  and  a  stern  schoolmaster  of 
the  old-fashioned  English  type.  He  always 
heard  a  recitation  with  the  book  in  his  left 
hand  and  a  rattan  in  his  right,  and  if  the  hoy 
made  a  false  quantity  or  did  not  know  the 
meaning  of  a  word  down  came  the  rattan  on 
his  head.  But  this  chastisement  was  never 
administered  to  .me  or  to  "Jimmy  Lowell." 
Not  to  me  because  I  was  too  old  for  it,  and 
not  to  him  because  he  was  too  young. 

I  graduated  from  Harvard  in  1832,  six 
years  before  Lowell.  I  did  not  know  much 
about  him  until  after  he  beenme  engaged  to 
my  cousin,  Miss  White.  It  was  a  long  en- 
gagement, for  James  had  no  very  good  pros- 
pect of  being  established  in  business  as  a 
lawyer.  Miss  White's  father  and  some  of 
Lowell's  own  relatives  regarded  him  as  a. 
young  man  who  would  not  make  his  own 
way  in  the  world.  They  did  not  know  his 
genius,  but  his  Maria  did  know  it  and  with 
the  fidelity  of  a  true  woman  she  believed  In 
his  future.  I  used  to  hear  a  good  deal  about 
them  in  a  circle  of  young  people  with  whom 
I  was  Intimate,  but  who  were  younger  than 
myself.  Lowell  had  a  kinsman  in  Boston  who 
might  have  promoted  bis  prospocts  at  tho 
bar;  but  this  cousin  of  his  always  ahook  his 
head  when  James's  name  was  mentioned, 
and  if  anyone  had  predicted  James's  career 
in  his  presence,  this  cousin  would  have  been 
utterly  incredulous.  But  this  gentleman 
died  before  tho  young  poet  had  gained  much 
reputation.  I  am  not  aware  that  Lowell 
owed  his  success  in  any  degreo  to  anyone 
but  himself;  still,  I  think  he  was  not  natur- 
ally an  industrious  man.  He  had,  I  fancy, 
a  propensity  to  idleness,  -which  he  bravely 
overcame.  Having  witnessed  the  whole  of 
his  career,  I  think  I  can  say  that  the  esti- 
mate of  it  given  by  Canon  Farr.-.r  is  perfect- 
ly just. 

Undoubtedly  the  greatest  public  service 
that  Mr.  Lowell  ever  rendered  consisted  in 
what  he  did  to  promote  and  cement  the 
friendship  between  the  Government  and  peo- 
ple of  Great  Britain  and  the  Government  and 
people  of  the  United  States.  We  have  had 
other  ministers  to  England  who  have  done  a 
good  deal  of  this  useful  and  beneficent  kind 
of  work.  But  Lowell  was  in  England  at  a 
peculiar  time,  a  time  when  it  was  necessary 
that  the  work  should  be  undertaken  anew, 
because  the  mmleasat-t  feeling.  I'ngetidered 
by  our  Civil  V\  ar  --ire  not  entlxi  Ij  worn  out. 
For  this  in;  I,  |  t  •  II  was  eminently  fitted  in 
ovciy  way.  lti<  gonial  manners,  his  tact  and 
his  varied  accomplishments  enabled  him  to 
fill    ■■  success  a  dl  then  It  post.     ["New 

York  Sun 


Services  Over  the  Remains  of  James 
(^^R«jssell  Lowell. 


Harvard  College  Chapel   Crowded 
With  a  Noted  Assemblage. 


The    Iuterment    Private     in    the 
Mt.  Auburn  Family  Lot. 


Simple  but  impressive  funeral  services 
over  the  remains  of  the  late  James 
Russell  Lowell  were  held  iu  Ap- 
tdoton  Chapel,  Cambridge,  at  noon  Friday, 
The  chapel  was  crowded  to  overflow- 
ing, and  many  who  desired  to  be 
present  were  unable  to  gain  an  entrance. 
Seldom  has  there  been  witnessed  such  a  gather- 
ing of  those  distinguished  in  the  literary  and 
other  professions  as  gathered  to  pay  tho  last 
tribute  of  love  and  respect  to  the 
deceased  author,  critic,  poet  and  diplomatist,  to 
whom  tho  word*  ot  his  own  tribute  to  another's 
greatness  might  well  be  applied— 
"Flacid  completeness,  life  without  a  fall 
From  faith  or  highest  aims,  truth's   Dreacbless 

wall, 
Surely  if  any  fame  c:m  bear  the  touch. 
His  will  say  'Iierel'  at  the  last  trumpet's  call.' 

Representatives  of  all  these  varied  walks  in 
life  which  the  deceased  so  delightfully  graced 
were  presouti  A  very  noticeable  feature 
too,  was  the  attendance  of  a  large  con- 
course of  citizens  of  Cambridge,  Mr.  Lowell's 
native  city,  showing  the  falsity.  In  this  case, 
of  the  old  saying  that  "a  prophet  is  not  without 
honor  save  in  his  own  country." 

The  officiating  clergymen  were  the  Right 
Rev.  Phillips  Brooks,  Bishop  of  the  Dio- 
cese of  Massachusetts,  and  Rev.  William 
Lawrence,  8.  T.  R,  Dean  of  the  Episco- 
pal    Theological     Seminary     at     Cambridge. 

The  body  was  driven  in  the  hearse  from  Elm- 
wood  at  11.30  o'clock,  followed  by  three  car- 
riages containing  the  Burnett  family, 
nurses  and  servants.  The  cortege  ar- 
rived at  Appleton  Chapel  just  at  noon. 
Shortly  after  12  o'clock  the  funeral  pro- 
cession into  the  church  was  Jed  by 
the  officiating  clergy,  followed  by  the 
pall  bearers,  then  the  body,  and  behind  all 
the  relatives  and  family.  Mrs.  Burnett, 
daughter  of  the  deceased,  dressed  in  deopest 
mourning,  was  escorted  by  her  oldest  son.  Mr. 
Burnett  and  the  rest  of  the  children 
came  next  followed  by  the  nurses  and 
servants.  As  the  funeral  procession  moved  up 
the  aisle  the  voice  of  Dr.  Lawrence  was  hoard 
uttering  the  laraiilar  opeulng  words  of  the 
Episcopal  burial  service  for  the  doad.  The 
Scripture  was  also  read  by  Dr.  Lawrence  and  tho 
prayers  by  Bishop  Brooks. 

Tho  mn.«ic  during  the  service  was  rend ei.'d  by 
the  Temple  Male  Quartette,  consisting  of  T.  E. 
Johnson, first  tenor;  George  \V.  Want,  second 
louoi ;  Geoige  H.  Reinelc,  first  bass,  and  A.  C. 
Ryder,  second  bass.  The  music  was  in 
charge  of  Warren  A.  Locke,  organist  at  the 
chanel.  The  selections  included  a  chant, 
"Lord,  Let  Mo  Knon  M>  End."  by  Buck; 
"Boatt  Mortal,"  by  V.  iifUdssohn';  "lliearda 
Voice    from     Heavtn.'      jy   J.    C.    I).    Parker; 


"Libera  Me."  by  Kahwodx 

The  floral  tributes  wero  verr  few  in  number 
and  modest  in  character.  An  ivy  wraatn  mcked 
at  r.itnwood  rested  on  the  head  of  the 
casket,  another  wreath  of  iiy  from 
Mrs.  James  T.  Fields  bung  orcr  one  corner  of 
the  reading  desk,  and  a  wreath  of 
roses  from  Mrs.  Putnam  lay  upon  the  floor  at 
the  base  of  the  pulpit  The  body  was  enclosed 
in  a  plain  black  broadcloth  easKet.  without 
trimmings  except  a  siirer  plate  bearing  the 
simple  inscription: 

Died  Aug.  12.  1891. 

James  Russell  Lowell, 

Aged  72  years  5  months. 

lhe  pall-bearers  wero  President  C.  W.  Eliot, 
Hon.  Georee  William  Curtis.  Dr.  Olivei 
Wendell  Holmes.  W.  D.  noweil«,Chnstophor  P. 
Cranch,  Prof.  Charles  Eliot  N»rton.  Prof.  Cnild, 
C.  F.  Choate,  Jobn  Holmes.  rrofes<or  Bartlett. 
Their  duties  were  entiroly  honorary,  the  casket 
belucr  born9  into  and  from  the  chuiob  between 
thera  by  the  TJndertsKer*  Wyeth  and  their 
assistants. 

The  foregoing  list  of  nall-honrcr*  is  a  most 
distinguished  one.  John  Holmes  is  a  youneer 
brother  of  Ollrcr  Wendell  Holmes,  and  of 
him  Lowell  once  said  that  ho  considered  him  as 
"▼illy,  it  not  wittier,  than  the  more  well- 
known  Autocrat  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes, 
George  William  Curtis  ano  William  Dean 
Howells  are  pnmes"  that  need  hat  a  men- 
tion. Charles  Eliot  Norton,  Frofrssor  of 
Fine  Arts.  was  a  gieat  jioreonal 
friend  of  the  deceased.  Juhu  Hartlott, 
lately  of  Hie  publishing  bouse  of  Little, 
Brown  &  Co.  :<  the  anthoi  c'  "Familial 
Quotations."  ond  to  him  l^owell  dedicat- 
ed one  of  hi»  r-oeins  !.i  token  of 
Irieiuhhiu  Prof.  ChV"  h:  •  b«en  for  reirs 
»'.  tbe  Load  ol  the  luuglisli  Depart- 
ment of  Harvard  College.  Charles  F. 
Choate,  Esa.,  is  tho  President  of  the 
Old  Colony  Railroad  Company.  Christopher  P. 
Cranch,  whose  poems  hare  delighted  many, 
vVae  8  meml  ct  of  II  .  l'h  rdoglcal  School  whew 
Lowell  was  a  Sophomore. 

Tho  femoral  arrnngci  i"i:ts  were  lu  charge  of 
Chief  Usher  Kdward  Jackson,  The  remaining 
ushers  were  Messrs  A  Lawrence  Lowell. 
('.so.  Gardner,  Ernest  Jackson,  Francis  L  Cool- 
ulsre,  Arthur  Lyman  and  Moorfiold  Storey.  Tbe 
relatives  and  family  of  the  deceased,  the  pall 
bearers  and  members  ol  the  Loyal  Legion  aDd 
Harvard  Corporation  occupied  a  dozen  reserved 
pi.  Ws  across  tbe  church  directly  in  front  of  the 
pilpit. 

Of  the  surviving  members  ot  Mr.  Lowell's 
class,  the  class  of  1838,  tho  following 
were  present:  Samuel  Leonard  Abbot, 
A.  M.,  M.  D. :  Willi,  im  Asoinwal!. 
LL.  B.;  Hon.  George  Bailoy  Lorlng,  M.  D  :  A\  il- 
Kam  Innersoll  Bowditcb,  LL  B,  and  James 
Ivers  Trecotbick  Coolidae,  a  T.  D. 

iThe  Loyal  legion,  of  which  the  deceased  was 
a'membcr,  was  represented  by  the  following 
Allegation: 

Gen.  John  L  Oiis.  C'oi  Stephen  M.  Crosby. 
God.  Francis  A  Walker,  Col.  Augnstns  P.  Mar- 
tin, Col.  Charles  R.  Codmnn,  Col.  T.  Vtr. 
JJ.'gRiuson.  Hon.  Frederick  W.  Lincoln. 
Cr.l.  Henry  Rione.  William  Endicott,  Jr.,  Col. 
Henry  Leo,  Mai.  Rnstell  Slnrcis,  Cnpt.  Nathan 
Appleton,  Gen.  Edward  W,  Ilincks,  Co),  Arnold 
A.  trftflf}  a*"1  *-:apt<  tl!ram  S.  ShurtlefL 

Among  those  present  and  not  already  men- 
tioned wero:  Hon.  R.  B.  Anderson,  Madison. 
Wis.,  ex  Minuter  to  Denmark:  Rev.  ii.  C.  Hitch- 
cock of  Somerville.  John  Livcrmore.  Esq..  o' 
Cambridge,  Prof.  John  Henry  Wright  of  lli:- 
vrd  University,  Hon.  Charles  Theodore  Rus- 
sell, Rev.  Dr.  Alexander  of  Cambridge;  Mr. 
Edwin  D.  Mead,  Mr.  Daniel  C.  Heath,  Juitin 
Winsor,  Librarian  of  Harvard  University. 
H.  O.  Homrhlon.  Jr..  Rev.  Edward  G.  Porter  of 
Lexington,  Robert  M.  Morso,  Jr..  Mr.  Joseph 
Burnett  of  Southboro',  Rev.  Edward  A.  Rand  of  • 
Watertown,  W.&  Clymerof  Watertown,  George 
Putnam,    Esq,      Hon.      Leverett     Saltonstall, 


20 

Frank  B.  Sanborn,  Mayor  Alpheus  Alger  of 
Cambridge,  CoL  Henry  L.  Hiaginson.  Mr. 
Joseph  Q.  Thorpe.  Jr.,  Richard  H.  Dana. 
Esq.,  Profetsor  L.  R  WillUton,  Miss  Ellen  T. 
Emerson  of  Concord,  Mass.;  Rev.  D.  N.  Beach  of 
Cambridge;  Rev.  A.  P.  Peabody,  D.  D..  Prof. 
George  -Mendall  Taylor.  Dr.  H.  P.  Walcott 
of  Cambridire  :  State  Librarian  C  B. 
Tillinghast.  Dr.  T.  H.  Cunningham  of  Cam- 
bridge,  Rev.  A.  H.  Muzzey  of  Cambridge,  Hon. 
James  A.  Fox.  Hon.  Charles  Francis  Adams, 
Hon.  John  Quincy  Adams.  Dr.  James  Putnam, 
Rev.  Jnmes  tsallaway  of  Bedford,  Prot  T.  A. 
Dwyer  of  Richmond  University.  Prof.  H.  W. 
Williams  of  Harvard  University,  George 
P.  Coverly,  Esq.,  Prof.  Ware  of  Colombia 
College.  New  York,  George  Abbott  James,  Esq., 
Rev.  T.  P.  Prudden,  D.  D,  of  Chi 
cago,  l)r  Wm.  C  Hawkins,  James 
J.  Myers.  Rev.  W.  G  Wiuslow,  D.  D., 
Profs.  Adolph  Cobn,  A.  R  Hart.  Wm.  James 
and  Assistant  Librarian  W.  C.  Lane  of  Harvard 
University,  J.  J.  Myers,  Esq..  W.  W. 
Newell.  Esq.,  J.  W.  Freese,  Principal  of  the 
Washington  Grammar  School,  Cambridge,  Eben 
Snow.  Esq.,  William  R  do  las  Casas.  Esq.,  Post- 
master Arthur  Gormley  of  Cambridge,  Godfrey 
Mors*.  Esq..  Hon.  Edwin  A.  Alger.  Dr.  Henry  A. 
Williams,  President  Wheeler  of  the  Cambridge 
Common  Council.  Dr.  Howland  Ublmes  of 
Lexington.  W.  G  Lane  of  the  Harvard  College 
Library,  John  a.  Glidden,  E?q.,  of  Dover.  N.  H.. 
George  P  Davis,  Esq..  of  Boston.  Robert  H. 
Toppan,  Esq..  of  Cambridge.  Rev.  Wilson  Waters 
of  St.  Aune'a  Church.  Lowell:  William  Lloyd 
(jnrrisou,  Mrs.  Agassiz,  Mrs.  Dr.  Sprague,  Mrs. 
William  Blake,  Mrs.  Burt  Dexter,  Mr.  Arthur 
Dexter,  Mis.  Nelson  Blake  of  Arlington,  Mrs.  J. 
H.  Shapleigh  of  Brookline.  Mrs.  F.  L  Goold  of 
Cambridge,  Mrs.  Honry  Whitman  of  Beverly,  A. 
W.  Blake  of  Brookline,  A.  8.  Pargons  of  Cam- 
bridge. Prof.  Francke.  Kanahe  Kozaki  and  K. 
Fukushuna.  Japanese  studouts  of  Harvard. 

Tho  body  was  not  exposed  to  the  view  of  any 
one  and  was  taken  to  Mt  Anburn  immediately 
after  the  services  at  the  chapel,  followed  by 
about  fifteen  carriages.  There  were  no  services 
at  the  grave. 

\Vbile  the  body  was  being  conveyed  to  its  last 
jesting  place  in  Mount  Anburn  the  church  b'd'.s 
throughout  the  city  were  tolled  and  the  flags 
displayed  at  half  mast  by  order  of  Mayor  Alger. 
Thegravoisln  the  centre  of  tho  family  lot, 
on  the  right  of  Fountain  avenue— the 
first  avenue  on  the  left  of  trie  entrance. 
The  lot  la  a  double  one,  containing  tho  re- 
mains of  Generations  of  Lowells  and  Putnanis. 
tbe  latter  being  Mr.  Lowell's  only 
living  sister's  family.  It  is  conspicuous  on 
account  of  Its  extreme  plainness  and  sim- 
plicity. It  is  uninclosed.  being  without  gran- 
ite enrbtpg.  hedge  or  even  location  blocks. 
No  monument  marks  tho  spot.and  only  small 
plain  tombstones  are  at  the  head  of  each 
grave,     bearing    the    followins     inscriptions: 

Charles  Russell  Lowell,  died  June  23.  JS70. 
Jamos  Jackson  Lowell.  Lieutenant  Iwentioth 
Massachusetts  Volunteers,  died  Jun>>  4.  1S32. 
Samuel  R.  Putnam,  died  Dec.  24,  1861.  William 
Lowell  Pc  in  am.  Twentieth  Regimont  Massa- 
chusetts Volunteers,  killed  at  ball's  Bluff  Oct. 
21.  1861.  Annte  Cabot-Lowell,  died  Jan.  7, 
1874.  Charles  Russell  Lowell,  Colonel' Second 
Massachusetts  Cavalry,  died  Oct  ^0,  l.sr,4. 
Charles  l.owell  Putuam,  died  Sent.  lo.  18+7. 
Rebecca  Russell  Lowell,  diughter  of  Charles 
Lowell,  D.  !>..  died  May  20.  1872. 

The  spot  whi<:h  has  beeu  selected  for  tho  poet's 
grave,  and  which,  it  is  undcistood.  was  of  his 
own  choosing,  la  romautieally  situated  un- 
der two  large  hornbeam  troos,  one  of  which 
is  directly  at  the  foot  of  the  crave  and 
tbe  other  on  the  right  of  its  head.  These  trees 
are  never  trimmed,  and  their  chlof  charm  is 
their  natural  and  weird  growth.  The  lot 
is  In  a  valley  In  the  rear  of  the  ceme- 
tery, and  directly  in  the  shadow  of  tho  Long- 
fellow lot,  on  Indian  Ridge  avenue,  where  rest 
the  remains  of  America's  famous  hard.  Thus 
the  two  poets,  who  were  neighbors  in  life,  may 
be  said  to  occupy  the  same  relation  In  death. 


THE  FUNERAL  OF  LOWELL. 


Although  many  of  thoso  who  would 
.otherwise  have  been  present  wore  out  of 
towp,  the  funeral  of  Mr.  Lowell  at 
Cambridge  yesterday  was  the  occasion 
of  3  large  and  distinguished  gatheriug. 
Men  eminent  in  every  walk  of  life  were 
there  to  testify  to  the  respect  i:i  which 
they  held  the  memory  of  the  dead,  and 
the  sorrow  which  they  expressed  was 
keen  and  sincere.  There  was  no  osten- 
tation in  the  ceremony,  which  was  con- 
ducted by  Bishop  Brook*  and  the  Rev. 
William  Lawren'ce  according  to  the 
beautiful  Episcopal  ritual,  and  the  elo- 
quence of  its  fine  simplicity  was  in  per- 
fect keeping  with  the  spirit  of  him  who 

is  dead. 

-- ..       ~-. 

The  death  of  Hon.  Jnmes  Russell 
Lowell,  poet,  critic  and  patriot,  is  a  loss 
to  the  whole  country.  Out  foremost  nua 
of  letters,  and  «n9  whose  genius  was 
recognized  abroad  as  weii  as  at  horns, 
without  a  snet  on  his  reputation  either 
ns  a  private  citizen  or  a  pubL'o  servant,  a 
gentleman  in  the  best  sense  of  that  much 
abused  word,  and  a  devout  btliewr  in 
God,  his  memory  will  ba  revered  by 
every  true  American,  horn  iu  1810,  be 
has  passed  away  just  as  he  was  beuin- 
nia:;  to  enter  npon  whit!;  was  hoped 
would  be  a  prolong.'.!  anu  beautiful  old 
age. 

LOWELL'S   FAME   ABROAD. 

The  New  York  Evening  Post  refers  to 
the  fame  of  Lowell  as  an  author  as  not 
being  international,  and  instances  Long- 
fellow, Cooper,  Mrs.  Stowe  and  Bret 
Harte  as  excelling  him  in  this  respect. 
Jt  might  have  added  Hawthorne,  and, 
perhaps,  Henry  James  to  the  number. 
There  is  ouc  American  author  who  de- 
pends upon  England  and  France  for  his 
fame  mora  than  upon  his  own  country. 
[We  reler  to  Edgar  A.  Poe.  Poe  was  al- 
mosi  neglected  here  until  he  received  the 
certificate  of  genius  from  abroad,  and 
we  are  inclined  to  think  he  is  not  very 
much  read  at  home  by  this  generation. 
Lowell's  essay  writing  is  not  of  a  kind 
to  receive  general  reading  anywhere;  it 
is,  the  most  of  it,  too  much  the  work  of 
What  is  recognized  as  a  distinctively 
literary  man.  His  humor,  from  its  dia- 
lect character,  appeals  rather  to  our  own 
people  than  to  those  abroad.  Among 
British  scholars  and  men  of  letters, 
however,  Lowell  is  appreciated  and 
highly  estimated. 


JAMES    RUSSELL    LOWELL. 

fFor  the  Transcript.] 

From  purest  wells  of  English  undeflled 

None  deeper  drank  than  he,  the  New  World's 

child. 
Who,  in  the  language  of    their  farm-fields, 

spoke 
The  wit  and  wisdom  of  New  England  folk. 
Shaming  a  monstrous  wrong.    Tbe  world-wide 

langb 
ProToked  thereby  might  well  have  shaken  half 
The  walls  of  Slavery  down,  ere  yet  the  ball 
And  mine  of  battle  overthrew  them  alL 

J.  Q.  W. 


THE    POET'S    DIRCE. 

The  following  lines  from  Jamei  Russell 
Lowell's  "Dime"  haTe  a  pathetic  appropriate- 
ness i'iit  now : 

Toot!  louely  Is  thy  bed. 
Aud  tlw  turf  is  overhead— 
Cold  eartb  is  thy  covor, 
Cat  thy  heart  hatU  found  release. 
And  it  slumbers  full  of  peace. 
•  •  *  •  •  • 

Thy  body  findeth  ample  room 
In  its  still  aud  grassy  tomb 

By  the  silent  river. 
But  thv  spirit  found  the  earth 
Is  arrow  for  thy  mighty  birth 

V  uich  it  d roamed  of  overt 


A  correspondent  R.  B.  A.  sends  a  bit  of 
loving  criticism  of  Lowell  from  her  journal 
of  March,  1869. 

I  have  just  read  Lowell's  new  volume 
,rUnder  the  Willows."  It  Is  full  of  music,  of 
pictures,  of  high  thonghts  and  of  passionate 
truth.  Ah!  who  that  has  lost  the  heart's 
treasure  will  not  understand  the  despairing 
grief  of  the  poems  "After  the  Burial,"  and 
"The  Dend  House."  These  are  words  that 
bring  back  the  sorrow  that  blotted  out  the 
day  and  hid  God's  face  in  deepest  night, 
until  there  was  left 

"To  the  spirit  its  splendid  conjectures, 

To  the  flesh  Its  sweet  despair. 
Its  tears  o'er  the  thin-worn  lockot 
With  its  anguish  of  deathless  hair." 

In  "Pictures  from  Appledore"  there  Is  a 
description  of  the  effect  of  the  sun  shining 
upon  the  rocks  quite  unique.  There  is  a 
witchery  in  the  way  the  words  are  used,  iu 
recalling  what  is  delightful  to  the  imagina- 
tion ana  to  the  heart.  "A  Winter  Evening 
Hymn  to  My  Fire"  is  full  of  pleasant  fancies. 
Who  before  has  ever  celebrated  the  Fire- 
spirit  in  such  appreciative  and  almost  loving 
strains?  A  Persian  fire-worshipper  would  be 
charmed.  One  could  fill  pages  in  praise  of 
"Under  the  Willows."  The  author  will  here- 
after ever  be  to  me  nnder  the  laurel. 


Mr.     Lowell's    Letter-  Writln*- 
CEegiriar' Correspondence  of  tbe  Transcript.] 

New  York.  Aug.  14. 

It  is  hard  to  realize  that  James  Russell 
Lowell  is  no  longer  in  this  world,  and  it  is 
hard  to  realize  that  old  age  was  against  him 
in  his  struggle  for  life.  Mr.  Lowell  never 
seemed  like  an  old  man.  It  is  said  of  him 
that,  no  matter  what  the  age  of  the  other  men 
in  the  room  might  be,  Mr.  Lowell  was  always 
the  youngest  man  there.  His  interest  in  life 
and  in  every  thing  that  was  worth  being  In- 
terested in  was  as  keen  as  a  young  man's,  up 
to  his  last  illness. 

Mr.  Lowell  was  old-fashioned  in  only  one 
thing— that  was  his  correspondence.  His 
letters  were  not  telegraphic  despatches,  they 
■were  letters,  and-I  am  -happy- to.  say  that  I 
possess  a  goodly  number  of  them.  I  don't 
think  that  there  is  one  of  them,  not  even  the 
shortest,  that  is  not  wortn  preserving  for  some 
bright  thought  or  witty  line.  Mr.  Lowell  In 
the  latter  years  of  his  fame  realized,  I  fancy, 
than  anything  in  his  autograph  had  a  money 
value  in  addition  to  its  literary  worth.  When 
he  sent  poems  and  manusoripts  to  the  maga- 
zines they  were  copied  out  in  another  hand 
than  his,  his  own  manuscript  being  given 
to  a  friend  whom  he  wished  to 
benefit  by  its  sale  after  his  death. 
His    letters,    however,     were    all     written 


21 

iu  a  clear,  scholarly  hand  on  handsome 
paper.  I  say  this  to  show  that  bad  penman- 
ship and  indifferent  stationery  are  not  the 
necessary  accompaniment  of  the  man  of  let- 
ters. A  letter  written  by  Mr.  Lowell  was  a 
delight  to  the  eye  as  well  as;  to  the  mind. 
His  handwriting  was  quit"  ns  legibln  as  Mr. 
Longfellow's,  without  being  as  clerical  in  its 
cut;  ___ ___ _^________ 

POETRY  AND  JUSTICE.  JU*. 
Before  the  enibors  of  the  election  n re 
have  died  out,  let  us  rescue  this  fragment 
of  a  dozen  lir.es,  written  by  James  Russell 
Lowell.  li  lias  «ioue  hard  duty  in  the 
campaign,  and  lias  been  much  quoted  by 
McClure,  Harrity  and  others  of  the  saints: 

WltD  generous  curre  we  dr>-.w  the  moral  llai; 
Our  »windl«rs  *re  permitted  to  reslyn; 
Their  guilt  Is  wr»i>P»  J  in  ilrlrrtniial  name*, 
Aud  twenty  sympathize  lor  «ue  Mint  b'.nmet 
Tae  public  -errant  u  no  has  »t  >lea  or  lied, 
lfc\ll  d  oi.  mat  re  .,n  with  noa»>-l  pride; 
As  unjuit  lavor  put  nirn  in,  way  douut 
Disfavor  ae  u:.ju'l  h  is  turned  b/m  out? 
Even  It  indicted,  whit  i*  mat  but  fud»« 
To  rum  w   o  couutvd  in  the  elscllv  judge? 
Whitewashed,  iiequiisthe  politician's  strife, 
At  ease  In  mind,  mill  pockets  filled  for  lite. 

This  is  "poetry,"  the  work  of  a  master 
haul,  but  is  it  justice? 

Swindlers,  says  Mr.  Lowell,  if  we  may 
be  permitted  to  condense  his  poetry  into 
cold  controversial  prose,  are  permitted  to 
resign  from  public  stations  they  have 
degraded;  their  crime  treated  with  respect, 
and  in  their  resignations  have  the  sym 
patliy  of  ni neteen-lwenlicths  of  the  com- 
munity. This  is  a  carefully  condense. : 
statement.  Cpon  what  is  it  based?  Where 
is  the  swindler,  since  the  Government 
began,  who  has  ever  been  permitted 
to  resign  under  the  circumstances 
described?  Where  is  the  coinnv.inity 
nineteen-twentieths  of  whom  sympathize 
with  resigned  swindlers?  Was  this  the 
fate  of  Aaron  Bnrr  or  Secretary  Belknap, 
the  two  public  men  who  may  have  been 
in  the  poet's  mind?  Their  history  is  a 
terrible  example  ofj  the  stern  justice 
which  the  Republic  visits  upon  them  who 
trifle  with  their  duties  as  citizens  and 
statesmen.  Better  they  had  died  in  chains 
and  in  the  dungeon  than  live,  as  they  did, 
in  the  pitiless  Alpine  infamy  of  scorn. 

Mr.  Lowell  alludes  also  to  some  public 
servant  who  had  stolen  and  lied,  and  who 
was  permitted  to  resign  in  "honest  pride." 
There  is  no  such  case  in  American  history 
and  can  only  be  found  in  the  English  me- 
moirs of  such  glorious  reigns  as  those  of 
the  four  Georges.  Mr.  Lowell  also  discov- 
ered that  a  Jndre  undt*r  our  elective  system 
treated  the  indictments  of  public  officials 
who  had  stolen  and  lied  as  "fudge."  Can 
any  student  of  the  eminent  poet  give  us 
the  name  of  this  Judge  or  of  any  judicial 
officer  who  ever  attempted  to  condone 
crime  and  not  fall  into  instant  ruin  in  the 
attempt?  The  books  are  open.  The  crim- 
inal records  are  before  all  men.  Give  u< 
names,  dates,  time,  and  pace.  Then  we 
can  rate  ihe  poetry  at  its  value. 

Mr.  Lowell  describes  a  public  man  wh.-i 
steals  and  lies,  avoids  prison  by  collusion 
with  a  corrupt  Judge,  leaves  politics  rich, 


"whitewashed,"  and  "at  ease."  Is  this 
true?  We  have  known  a  few  instances  o' 
men  who  escaped  conviction  by  some 
technicality,  by  the  obtuseness  of  a  jurv 
or  the  nimbleness  of  the  advocate.  But 
this  has  happened  to  murderers  as  well  a* 
to  faithless  officials.  Can  it  fairly  be 
called  a  description  of  the  relations  be- 
tween crime  and  the  American  bench?  Has 
not  public  condemnation  been  instant  and 
pitiless?  Society  would  not  take  such  men 
with  their  gildings.  To  them,  as  in  bitter- 
ness they  learned,  better  the  wooden  bed, 
the  p inter  and  tne  cen,  than  the  living 
scorn  of  a  people's  contempt1. 

The  "moral  line"  is  never  drawn  wuu 
"a  generous  curve"  of  public  opinion,  the 
verses  of  even  as  great  a  poet  as  Mr. 
Lowell  to  the  contrary.  Therein  is  the 
strength  of  the  Republic.  Sins  that  the 
throne  might  hide  grow  darker  under  the 
light  of  republicanism.  There  are  many 
thinzs  which  might  be  improved  as  the 
world  goes.  We  are  trying  to  better  them 
every  day.  Not,  however,  iu  the  moral 
standards  we  exact  from  our  public  met'. 
We  could  not  be  more  implacable  in  what 
we  demand  from  them,  noi  more  severe  in 
our  resentment  of  their  failures  to  do  their 
duty. 

This  is  the  truth  of  history  and  current 
observation,  as  opposed  to  the  poetry  of 
Mr.  Lowell.  The  elections  arc  over,  and 
there  is  no  harm  in  speaking  it. 


TUB   L1STBNBH.  ? 
I7a**<£&' 

The  Listener  struck  an  odd  account  of  Mr. 
Lowell  yesterday  in  a  copy  of  the  Ind4pendan.ee 
Beige,  the  great  newspaper  of  Brussels.  It  was 
written  from  London  to  that  paper,  and  is  In- 
teresting here  from  its  evident  opinion  that  Mr. 
Lowell  was  a  very  different  man  from  the  great 
majority  of  his  fellow  citizens,  and  from  the 
hitherto  locally  unknown  anecdote  it  contains. 
"There  is  no  greater  pleasuro  for  the  citizens 
over  the  Atlantic,"  says  this  Belgian  writer, 
"than  that  of  railing  against  their  mother  coun- 
try, and  playing  her  all  sorts  of  enfant  terrible 
tricks.  In  their  nasal  twang,  they  call  it 
tnrdre  la  queue  du  lion  britannique ;  or 
as  wo  say,  'pulling  grandmother's  wig.' 
'Why,'  said  a  Manchester  man  to  Mr.  Lowell 
ono  day,  'are  n't  yon  an  Englishman?'  He 
was  astonished  to  find  an  American  cut  in  the 
measure  of  Belgravia.  And  the  Yankee  poet 
replied,  with  a  wit  which  his  countrymen  have 
as  yet  failed  to  see  the  delicate  justice  of,  'Yes, 
1  am  an  Englishman— because'  I  'm  not  a  red- 
skin.' It  is  possible  that  his  was  a  case  of  atav- 
ism. Of  Puritan  origin,  his  grandmother,  al- 
though an  emigrant  to  the  New  World,  never 
forgave  the  Americans  for  having  shaken  off 
the  yoke  of  England.  When,  each  year,  close 
by  her  residence  of  Elmwood,  in  Massachu- 
setts, where  her  illustrious  grandson  has  just 
died,  the  lamps  were  lighted  and  the  petards 
began  to  explode  which  were  to  glorify  the 
memory  cf  the  4th  of  Jaly,  1776— the  day  of  the 
declaration  of  American  independence— then 
the  aged  and  noble  lady  went  into  the  deepest 
mourning,  piously  fasting  and  lamenting.in  the 
midst  of  other  people's  fireworks,  'our  recent 
and  deplorable  quarrel  with  his  most  gracious 
majesty,  our  King  George' "1 
+  +  + 

After  learning  thus  of  Mr.  Lowell's  Tory 
grandmother,  we  jro  told  by  the  Belgian  writer 
—who  wields  a  facile  and  bookish  pen,  by  the 


way— that,  "though  ha  was  mora  com- 
pletely reconciled  to  the  flag  of  the  United 
States  than  his  grandparent,  James  Russell 
Lowell  retained  In  his  blood  a  homesick  loye 
for  the  old  beginnings,  for  the  first  fatherland  of 
his  people.  He  was  more  an  English  poet  than 
an  American;  he  belonged  with  Tennyson, 
with  Matthew  Arnold,  with  Thackeray  and 
Lamb,  and  not  with  Poe,  with  Mark  Twain  and 
Bret  Harto.  [The  reader  will  pat  in  his  own 
whistle,  in  his  own  way,  at  this  point]  His 
manner  and  fashion  of  looking  at  things  utterly 
lacked  the  savor  of  the  soil:  it  brought 
to  us  nothing  of  the  flavor  of  wild 
fruits  and  the  copper-red  tones  which  im- 
pregnate the  prose  and  the  verse  of  the  •emi- 
grant definitely  assimilated  to  the  atmosphere 
of  the  Callfornlan  Sierras  or  the  prairies  of  the 
Far  West.  He  drew  his  inspiration  exclusively 
from  the  fountains  of  Old  World  literature. 
He  had  everything,  in  short,  which  is  lacking 
in  the  authentic  type  of  the  young  and  too 
quickly  risen  American  —  the  distinction  of 
manner,  the  aristocratic  grace  of  bearing,  the 
correctness  of  waistcoat,  the  subtle  charming  air 
superficial  with  many,  inborn  with  him,  of  the 
accomplished  gentleman,  which  is  the  ideal  of 
the  English  sooial  type.  And,  by  his  example, 
he  proved  to  England  that  all  Americans  have 
not  made  their  fortunes  in  the  pork  trade ;  that 
they  do  net  all  dine  with  their  feet  on  the  table, 
and  that  there  are  among  thorn  some  who  are 
very  well  lettered,  very  artistic,  very  refined. 
who  have. had  the  time  to  shake  off  the  mad  of 
their  plantations  and  pnt  polish  and  varnish 
upon  their  shoes." 

+  +  + 
Speaking  of  Mr.  Lowell,  the  Listener  has 
heard  several  people  mention  the  criticism  of  the 
dead  poet's  work  and  appreciation  of  his  charac- 
ter contained  in  Mr.TheodoreWatts's  Athenaeum 
article,  copied  in  the  Transcript  Saturday.  Mr. 
Watts  was  an  artist  before  he  was  a  poet  and  a 
critic  and  has  the  artist's  and  poet's  way  of  ex- 
pressing himself  without  much  regard  for  logic 
—of  painting  right  out  with  words,  as  it  were, 
.the  precise  thought  that  is  In  him.  Some  of  his 
remarks  about  Mr.  Lowell's  Puritanism,  and 
that  of  New  England  people  in  general,  Beem  a 
little  dogmatic  Of  course  we  aro  glad  to  be- 
lieve that  Puritanism,  In  the  high  and  compli- 
mentary sonse  In  whloh  Mr.  Watts  speaks  of  It, 
does  exist  In  New  England  in  very  large  meas- 
ure ;  and  it  is  evident  that  it  permeates  Unitari- 
ans, Anglicans,  Catholics,  as  well  as  the 
old  "  orthodox "  New  England  commun- 
ion. But  it  is  not  so  radically  predomi- 
nant a  thing  here  as  an  English  critlo 
might  suppose;  and  if  Mr.  Lowell  had  not 
•scaped  in  a  considerable  degree  from  Puritan- 
ism at  almost  every  step  he  would  never  havo 
been  the  groat  poet  that  he  was.  A  man  who 
could  livo  as  Mr.  Lowell  did.  in  the  thought  and  ' 
nlmost  worship  of  trees  and  birds,  must  have 
had  a  good  deal  of  redeeming  pagan  virtue  In 
him.  That  much  of  Mr.  Lowell's  poetry  was 
not  musical  has  been  known  a  long  time.  Mr. 
Watts  puts  Mr.  Lowell  and  Dante  Gabriel  R09- 
setti  into  the  same  category  in  their  tendency 
to  throw  the  accent  In  their  lines  upon  weak 
words ;  and  what  superb  poots  both  men  were  I 
Is  It  not  possible  that  both  were  conscious  that 
there  is  a  molody  above  melodies,  and  an  ac- 
cent of  thought  and  color  as  well  as  one  of 
sound?  For  all  this,  Mr.  Watts's  study 
was  an  excellent  one;  and  what  he  says 
about  the  relation  of  Americans  and  Englishmen 
is  well  worth  American  roading. 


22 

He  was  no  human.  An  example  of  it  was  his 
kissing  his  venerable  mother  on  the  day  of  his 
Inauguration.  It  wan  criticised,  1  remember 
beating  at  the  time,  as  a  sin  against  good  taste. 
I  thought  then  and  think  imw,  that  if  we  had 
found  the  story  in  Plutarch  we  should  have 
thought  no  worse  of  the  hero  of  it. 

...Mr.  Lowell  was  the  only  honorary  vice 
president  of  the  Egypt  Exploration  Fund  ever 
elected  to  that  highly  honorable  position.  His 
sympathy  with  its  work  and  other  archaeological 
undertakings  is  but  one  of  many  proofs  of  tlio 
breadth  of  his  mind  and  his  appreciation  of 
every  department  of  study  and  Investigation 
that  helped  on  man's  knowledge  of  man. 

"Who  listens  to  an  Englishman's  gpee<  b?" 

This  Is  the  clever  way  tho  New  York    I 
mercial  Advertiser  pays  back  an  old  score  for 
'Who  reads  an  American  booK?"  and   ir  adds, 
"If  Englishmen  are  ever  to  ncquiro  acrriie  theli 
lost  art  of  speaking  It  will   bo  by  the     •  ,j 

Just  puch  consummate  masters  of  that  ■■ 
was  Mr.  James  RossoII  Lowell," 

LIBRARY    AND    FOYER. 


....  Mr.  Lowell's  memorial  speech  on  Garfield* 
mnde  at  Exeter  Hall  in  London,  on  Sept.  2*, 
ten  years  ago  is  one  of  the  most  thrilling  and 
touching  of  his  addresses;  it  may  ho  Found  in 
the  sixth  volumo  of  the  new  ten-',  oli  me  edition 
of  his  works.  It  is  worth  while  to  read  again 
Lowell  saying  of  Garfleld- 


Sir  Edwin  Arnold's  extraordinary  classifica- 
tion of  James  Kussoll  Lowell's  standing,  in 
American  letters,  as  Inferior  to  that  of  Poo  and 
Walt  Whitman,  is  based,  one  may  hazard  a 
fcuess,  not  so  much  on  his  own  or  h^s  nation's 
standards,  ns  on  what  he  and  his  nation  are  led 
to  bolievi  aro  tho  Amorican  standards  of  liter- 
ary achievement.  Poe  Is  bizarre  and  uncon- 
ventional; Whitman  Is  conspicuously  and  de 
terminatcly  uncouth,  and  often  resolutely  and 
impossibly  vulgar:  Lowell  was  above  all  things 
In  his  work  as  In  his  life,  a  gentleman.  Given, 
3n  each,  a  certain  measure  of  literary  ability, 
and  an  Englishman  takes  for  granted  that  the 
American  will  exalt,  as  more  representative  of 
America,  tho  ability  expressing  itself  in 
■bizarre  and  uncouth  forms,  over  the  ability  ex- 
pressing itself  in  forms  of  recognized  beauty, 
gentleness  and  grace. 

Mr.  Lowell  rendered  much  enduring  service 
to  American  letters:  and  among  his  most  Indi- 
vidual and  enduring  gifts  to  our  literature  is 
the  picture  he  has  painted  for  us  of  the  old- 
lashioned,  all-round  Yankee;  the  only  complete 
and  comprehensive  and  artistically-finished 
picture  of  him,  one  Is  tempted  to  say,  ever 
painted.  Hosea  Biglow  is  not  Sam  Lawson,  the 
village  exception,  he  is,— or  was,  a  thousand 
times  alas  for  his  pa-sslngl—  the  village  type; 
easy-going  in  easy  matters,  and  as  fixed  as  New 
England  granite,  in  deeper  ones;  shrewd, -pro- 
foundly humorous,  quaint,  plucky,  kindly ;  an- 
"wearied  in  argument,  effective  in  action ;  "slo>w» 
to  contention  but  slower  to  quit;"  a  character. 
no  moro  like  the  endless  parodies  and  travesties 
of  him,  than  John  Bright  was  like  the  "John 
Boule"  of  the  Petit  Journal  pour  Kire.  Such  a 
man  Lowell  sketched  for  us— or,  with  far 
subtler  art,  mado  all  unconsciously  to  sketch 
himself  for  us,  in  the  most  memorable  dialect 
verse  of  our  literature;  and  to  sketch,  not  only 
himself,  but  the  now  rapidly  fading  atmosphere 
and  surroundings  in  which  he  had  being.  How 
exquisitely  Is  older  >e«-  England  epitomized  in 
''The  Courtln'!"  What  a  model  for  realists  is 
that  incomparable  bit  of  verse,  with  Its  faith- 
ful presentation  of  6lmple,  homely  life,  touched 
Vith  transfiguring  light  from  within!  Where 
shall  we  look  for  a  sweeter,  more  appealing  pic- 
ture of  gentle  girlhood  than  Huldy,  as  she 
*  •  •  sot,  pale  as  asbes, 
AU  kind  o'  smlly  round  the  lips. 
An'  teary  round  the  lashes  1 

Lowell,  like  Abraham  Lincoln,  was  fond  of 
■hinting  in  a  pungent  anecdote,  doubts  or  disap- 
provals be  did  not  care  for  tho  moment  to  ex- 
press outright.  Thus  when  the  eleotlve  system 
began  to  be  a  burning  question  at  Harvard,  and 
■extremists  were  inclined  to  preach  an  absolute 
freedom  of  choice   in   undergraduate  studies. 


Lowell  was  asked,  at  a  Phi  Beta  Kappa  dinner, 
for  his  opinion  on  the  question.  "Well,"  he 
said,  with  a  twinkle  in  his  eye,  "I  have-  been 
thinking  that  the  Faculty  might  meet  with  the 
same  dimooltv  that  an  old  landlord  whom  I 
knew,  once  did.  He  had  a  great  many  origi- 
nal gastronomic  theories;  and  confided  to  me, 
once,  his  conviction  that  ordinary  ducks  could 
be  made  to  attain  precisely  the  same  flavor  as 
canvas-backed  ducks  by  feeding  them  largely 
on  celery-soed.  I  asked  him  why  he  did  not 
try  the  experiment;  and  he  replied  mournfully 
that  he  had  often  endeavored  to;  but,  said  he. 
"r'le  trouble  in  the  blamed  things  won't  eat  the 
eeed"!" 

And  of  all  the  giants  there  ware  on  the  earth 
In  those  days,  how  few  are  leftl  Bancroft, 
8umner,  Emerson,  Longfellow,  Agassiz,  Lowell 
— where  are  their  peers? 

"Something  that  shone  in  them  hath  mado  us 

see 
Tho  archetypal  man,  and  what  might  be 
The  amplitude  of  Nature's  first  design. 

Wo  cannot  find  thorn.  Nothing  now  is  left 
But  a  majestic  memory.  They,  meanwhile, 
Wander  together  in  Elysian  lands." 

1 

The  mention  of  Agassiz's  name  recalls  a  deli- 
cious Utile  story  of  the  great  naturalist,  which  I 
am  quite  stirc  has  never  found  its  way  into  print. 
He  onco  took  a  voyage  on  a  United  States  man. 
of-war,  as  tho  guest  of  one  of  our  commodores 
who  was  his  warm  personal  friend.  He  planned 
to  cast  dredging  nets  here  and  there,  at  certain 
stages,  of  tho  joumoy,  to  secure  specimens  of 
fish  peculiar  to  those  waters;  and  near  the 
Straits  of  Magellan  he  was  overjoyed  on  draw- 
ing hi  hi*  nets  to  find  ho  had  two  fishes  of  so 
exceedingly  raro  a  sort  that  probably  they  had 
never  hitherto  been  accurately  classified  and 
described.  Too  delighted  to  weigh  his 
English  phrases,  ho  stood  murmuring,  over 
and  over  again,  "Ah,  tho  luscious  morsels— the 
lu>eioris  morsels!"  and  gave  them  temporarily 
in  charge  of  a  sailor  In  attendance,  while  he  pat 
away  his  paraphernalia.  An  hoar  afterward, 
at  dinnor,  a  plate,  was  deposited  by  the  respect- 
ful steward  In  front  of  Proressor  Agassiz.  bear- 
ing two  small  fishes,  fried  to  an  appetizing 
brows.  An  awful  foreboding  darted  through 
bis  brain.  "What— what  are  these?"  hegasped. 
"They  're  tho  fish  you  took  this  afternoon,  sir!" 
said  the  steward,  promptly  and  agreeably.  "Tho 
iujii  he  said  you  said,  sir,  as  how  they  were  'lus- 
cious morsels,'  and  he  thought,  sir,  they  'd  bet- 
ter bo  cooked  whllw  they  were  fresh"! 

The  expression  that  settled  on  Agasslz's  face, 
is  a  legend  in  the  ntvy  to  this  hour.  They  say 
that  he  walked  up  and  down  the  cabin  for  an 
bonr  with  a  fish  in  each  hand,  bewailing  his 
and  their  cruel  fate. 


A  timely  literary  gem  is  the  folio-wing  re- 
markable tribute  to  Mr.  Lowell.,  It  Is  printed 
in  all  solemnity,  and  with  the  approbation  of  a 
prominont  rlace  in  the  poetry  column,  by  the 
San  Francisco  Bulletin: 

LITKRABY  LIGHTS.' 

sVorrt;>  of  Condolence  Dedicated  to  the  friends  of  the 
Immortal  Loweu. 

Another  "Light"  across  the  way, 
Brighleuing  our  path  to  follow ; 

The  last  faint  echo  of  the  boatman's  oar 
Is  lost  in  its  empty  hollow. 

The  way,  once  dark,  is  now  so  light 
They  're  clearing  up  superstition. 

Clipping  the  twigs  of  a  dangerous  blight 
With  love,  the  remaining  condition. 

The  "Light  of  a  Lowell"  over  the  way 
A  radiance  will  shed  forever; 

As  there  ou  tho  rim  of  another  day 
He  plants  his  light  by  the  river. 

T  is  only  a  step.    I  plainly  see— 

A  sleep  divested  of  sorrow. 
I  marrol  not  what  the  darkness  bo, 

I  shall  clearly  see  tomorrow. 


23 


(V, 


OS       ^ 
W       cc 

*>< 
a 

H 
I* 

O 
h) 

a 

•< 

M 
►J 

i 


24 


ELMWOOD,   CAMBRIDGE 


The  hunir.n  leaf  falls  one  bv  one 
From  the  tree  of  life  supernal— 

Un<W  fhn  warmth  of  another  snn 
Will  l.nd  and  blossom  eternal. 
Xew  York;  August,  iss»l.  Mai  Fal 


Mr.  James  Russell  Lowell  died  yesterday 
at  his  home  In  Cambridge.    We  give  in  an- 
other column  a  critical  account  of  his  career 
and  of  his  place  in  the  world  of  letters.    But 
no  tribute  to  his   memory  in  the  Ration 
would     be   complete    or   adequate   which 
failed  to  mention  how  much  it  owed  to  his 
sympathy  and  encouragement  from  the  day 
of  its  foundation,  and  how  unstintingly  these 
were  given  to  its  conductors.     His  rare  con- 
tributions to  its  columns,  though  very  valua- 
ble,   were    but    a  very    Insignificant   part 
of    the    support    it   received    from   him. 
What    was    most    valuable   was   his    con- 
stant and  very  frequent  private  expressions 
of  praise  and  appreciation.      These  never 
ceased  for  any  great  interval  during  twenty- 
five  years  of  good  and  evil  report,  and  they, 
we  need  not  say  to  readers  of  his  works,  and 
still  less  to  those  who  knew  the  man  himself, 
came  from  the  hand  of  a  master  in  politics 
as  well  as  in  literature,  and,  what  was  still 
better,  from  the  hand  of  one  of  the  warmest 
and  stanchest  of  friends.     Of  no  American 
of  our  time  might  it  be  more  truly  said, 
"Nee  vero  ille  in  luce  modo  atque  in  ocu  Is 
civium  magnus,  scd  intus  domique  prsstan- 
tior.    Qui  sermo,  quae  precepts!  " 


1Ubl*ho*  ,   flu-just-  »3,  |$*J| 
JAMES  RUSSELL  LOWELL. 

James  Rubsili/ Loweix  was  born  at  the 
residence  •-wiled  Elm  wood  In  Cambridge,  Mm., 
February  22,  1819.  Re  cam*  of  a  family 
which  in  every  feneration  bat  rendered  pub- 
lie  lervioe  in  some  form.  Hit  father,  the  Rev. 
Charles  Lowell,  D.D..  was  prominent  in  his 
day  as  a  clergyman,  though  now  best  remem- 
bered for  the  wholesome  brevity  of  bis  ser- 
mons; he  was  one  of  the  conspicuous  early 
Unitarian*,  although  be  never  would  aocept 
that  or  any  other  denominational  name.  Dr. 
Lowell's  father  was  the  Ron.  John  Lowell, 
United  States  Chief  Justice  for  the  New  Eng- 
land circuit,  who  has  permanent  fame  as  author 
of  that  clause  in  the  Massachusetts  Constitu- 
tion which  abolished  slavery,  and  it  is  worth 
noticing  that  he  was  also  the  author  of  an 
English  poem  in  the  Harvard  "  Pietas  et 
Gratulatio"  of  1761.  Judge  Lowell's  father 
was  the  Rev.  John  Lowell,  a  clergyman  of 
Newbury  port,  Mass.,  and  there  now  bangs  at 
Elmwood  a  painted  panel  representing  this 
worthy  divine,  with  several  others,  sittiig 
around  a  table  with  pipes  and  tobacco,  the 
motto  being  appended,  "  In  neoessarlis  unitas, 
in  non  necessariis  libert as.  in  omnibus  cart- 
tas."  The  father  of  the  Rev.  John  Lowell 
was  Perclval  Lowell,  a  merchant,  who  came 
from  Bristol,  England,  In  1039  and  settled 
In  Newbury,  Mass.  James  Russell  Lowell 
was  thus  of  the  fifth  generation  from 
one  of  the  founders  of  New  England. 
His  brother,  the  Rev.  R.  T.  8.  Lowell,  Is  also  an 
author,  as  Is  his  sister,   Mrs.   8.  R.  Putnam ; 


25 

and  among  bis  kinsmen,  not  through  direct 
descent,  have  been  John  Lowell,  the  prolific 
pamphleteer  of  Madison's  Administration; 
Francis  Cabot  Lowell,  the  founder  of  the  cot- 
ton manufacture)  of  New  England;  John 
Lowell,  the  founder  of  the  Lowell  Institute  in 
Boston ;  the  present  Judge  (John)  Lowell ;  and 
the  younger  authors,  Percival,  Abbott  Law- 
rence, and  Edward  Jackson  Lowell.  Two  of 
James  Russell  Lowell's  brother's  children,  Qen. 
Charles  Russell  Lowell  and  Lieut.  James  Jack- 
son Lowell,  were  killed  during  the  civil  war. 
It  is  doubtful  whether  any  family  name  in  New 
England  represents  so  large  a  total  of  con- 
spicuous usefulness. 

Prof.  Lowell's  mother,  Harriet  (Spence) 
Lowell,  was  the  daughter-  of  Robert  Traill 
Spence  of  Portsmouth,  N.  H.,  an  officer  of  the 
United  States  Navy.  She  is  described  by 
those  who  knew  her  a*  affording  the  greatest 
contrast  to  her  gentle  and  dignified  husband, 
she  having  a  strain  of  Celtic  blood  which  gave 
her  great  vivacity,  wit,  and  impetuosity  "of 
manner,  all  combining  to  make  her  very  at- 
tractive. She  lost  her  intellectual  powers 
with  advancing  years,  and  was  the  subject, 
under  those  elrcumstanoes,  of  one  of  the  moat 
powerful  and  pathetic  of  her  son's  poems— 
"  The  Darkened  Mind." 

The  house  in  whioh  Lowell  was  born  was 
one  of  several  fine  old  mansions  on  Brattle 
Street  (Cambridge)— a  street  bearing  the  name 
of   a  prominent  Loyalist  of  the  Revolution 

known    in    the    last  generation  as    "Tory 

Row."  The  Baroness  Riedessl  in  her  Me- 
moirs has  described  these  bouses  as  tbey 
were  during  the  Restoration,  when  occupied 
by  a  series  of  families  all  connected,  all  rich  and 
prosperous,  and  all  upon  the  Tory  side.  Elm- 
wood  was  built  in  1767  by  Lieut-Gen.  Thomas 
Oliver,  and  was  the  scene  of  a  popular  outbreak 
in  1774,  when  the  occupant  was  compelled 
by  a  mob  to  decline  office  as  Mandamus  Coun- 
sellor in  these  pithy  terms  :  "  My  house  at 
Cambridge  being  surrounded  by  about  4,000 
people,  in  compliance  with  their  command  I 
sign  my  name,  Thomas  Oliver.",  The  house 
was  afterwards  occupied  by  Gov.  Elbridge 
Gerry,  from  whom  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lowell  pur- 
chased it.  The  beautiful  trees  which  now 
adorn  it  were  mostly  planted  by  him.  Nearly 
opposite,  across  Brattle  Street,  in  another  of 
those  large  colonial  houses,  was  kept  for  many 
years  the  classical  school  of  William  Wells,  who 
then  had  the  reputation  of  fitting  boys  better 
than  any  one  else  for  Harvard  College.  This 
was  probably  true,  but  it  was  nevertheless  a 
rough,  old- fashioned  school  of  the  English 
type,  upon  which  none  of  its  boarding  pupils 
look  back  with  much  pleasure.  Lowell, 
however,  was  a  day  scholar,  as  was  his  life- 
long friend  and  fellow-worker,  William  Btory; 
and  among  the  yoqnger  pupils  who  afterwards 
developed  literary  tastes  were  T.  W.  Higgin- 
son  and  Charles  C.  Perkins.  The  training  was 
mainly  classical,  Mr.  Wells  being  himself  the 
author  of  an  excellent  Latin  grammar  and 
editor  of  the  first  American  edition  of  Cicero. 

From  this  school  Lowell  entered  Harvard 
College  in  1834,  taking  his  degree  of  A  B.  in 
1838,  and  that  of  A.M.  in  184  L  He  was  a  col- 
lege classmate  of  bis  friend  Btory,  of  Hon. 
Charles  Devens  (of  Boston),  Hon.  Rufus  King 
(of  Cincinnati),  Dr.  O.  B.  Lorlng  (cur  recent 
Minister  to  Portugal),   Gen.   H.  L.  Eustis,  the 


Rev.  Drs.  E.  A.  Washburn,  Rufus  Ellis,  and 
J.  L  T.  Coolidge.  Socially,  be  was  one  of  the 
favorites  of  his  class  and  one  of  the  editors 
of  the  College  periodical,  Harvardiana ;  but 
he  was  rather  irregular  as  a  student,  and 
was  suspended  on  the  eve  of  graduation 
for  a  boyish  escapade.  This  prevented  the  de- 
livery of  his  class  poem,  but  It  was  subsequent- 
ly published  without  his  nam*,  and  partly 
for  this  reason  baa  now  become  so  rare  that 
copies  of  it  command  a  high  price.  It  con- 
tains some  boyish  satire  upon  the  abolitionists 
and  other  reformers,  but  showed  the  nascent 
spirit  of  reform  in  an  eloquent  protest  against 
the  eviction  of  the  Cherokee*,  and  also  in  a 
tribute  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Cbanning.  He  never 
reprinted  it  among  bis  works,  but  it  is  very 
probable  that  its  publication  did  something  to 
commit  him  to  the  career  of  letters. 

A  far  more  powerful  influence  was,  how- 
ever, brought  to  bear  upon  him,  in  the  same 
direction,  soon  after.  A  young  poet's  love  is 
always  a  prime  factor  in  his  career,  but  rare- 
ly one  so  altogether  controlling  as  in  the  case 
of  LowelL  The  object  of  bis  attachment  waa 
Maria  White,  the  sister  of  one  of  his  class- 
mates. She  lived  in  Watertown,  the  town  ad* 
joining  Cambridge,  where  her  father  was  par- 
haps  the  most  influential  citizen;  she  had  a 
good  deal  of  beauty,  and  this  of  a  thoughtful 
and  poetic  type,  and,  under  a  peculiarly  se- 
rene and  gentle  aspect,  coneealed  great 
strength  and  fervor  of  nature.  Lowell  was, 
is  he  has  since  said  of  himself,  by  "temper- 
ament and  education  of  a  conservative  tone," 
She  was,  on  the  other  hand,  a  natural  re* 
.  former,  and,  though  partly  educated  la  a 
convent,  had  already  thrown  herself  with 
ardent  sympathy  into  the  reformatory  spirit 
of  the  times,  aud  especially  the  anti-slavery 
movement;  she  had  also  attended  Margaret 
Fulfer's  classes.  That  this  reformatory  spirit 
was  with  ber  a  matter  of  temperament  as  well 
as  conviction — something  in  the  blood — is  Indi- 
cated by  the  fact  that  ber  brother,  only  a  few 
years  older,  gave  up  all  for  reform,  travelled 
about  the  country  with  Frederick  Douglass 
and  others  as  an  anti-slavery  apostle,  and 
afterwards  gave  equal  energy  to  the  tem- 
perance agitation. 

All  this  reformatory  atmosphere  determined 
Lowell's  career:  his  love  made  him  a  poet,  the 
object  of  his  love  made  him  a  reformer.  The 
tame  end  might  have  been  reached  in  other 
ways,  bnt  this  was  the  way  In  which  it  actu- 
ally came.  For  the  rest,  he  and  his  betrothed 
became  the  centre  of  a  cirole  of  very  clever 
and  joyous  young  people,  who  bad  several 
pleasant  headquarters  in  Boston,  Cambridge, 
and  Watertown,  and  who  all  accepted  these 
two  lovers  as  their  natural  leaders,  or,  as  the 
phrase  among  them  was,  their  "  king  and 
queen."  Lowell  was  then  studying  law,  or 
just  essaying  his  powers  in  that  direction ;  be 
could  not  yet  afford  to  be  married, 
and  It  was  understood  that  the  prospect- 
ive father-in-law  withheld  bis  content  until 
Pegasus  should  have  learned  to  work  in  har- 
ness, thus  giving  the  needed  flavor  of  opposi- 
tion. Meanwhile,  the  love  affair  interested  the 
whole  circle.  It  was  a  composite  romance; 
there  was,  moreover,  a  theory  of  publicity 
about  it — It  was  too  sacred  not  to  be  spoken  of — 
and  the  love-letters  of  the  young  people  were 
shown  freely  from  hand  to  hand.    Perhaps  it 


was  all  a  little  exaggerated,  but  it  was  pretty 
and  innocent,  and  tbe  real  genius  and  earnest 
purposes  of  the  parties  gave  it  a  certain  digni- 
ty, Tbey  meant  to  lead  a  life  as  ideal  as  tbat 
of  Dante  and  Beatrice,  and,  incidentally,  to 
reform  the  world. 

Lowell's  first  volume,  '  A  Year's  Life '  (1841), 
shows  primarily  tbe  influence  of  Maria  While, 
and  secondarily  tbat  of  Keats  and  Tennyson; 
be  and  his  betrothed  being  among  tbe  first 
readers  of  the  two  thin  volumes  which  then 
imperfectly  predicted  tbe  well-earned  fame  of 
the  present  Laureata  As  the  first  work  of  a 
youth  of  twenty-one,  'A  Year's  Life'  had 
doubtless  much  that  was  crude  and  imita- 
tive, but  it  struck  a  note  then  new  in 
our  literature,  and  found  at  once  a  cir- 
cle of  warm  admirers  who  did  not  hesi- 
tate, with  youthful  daring,  to  claim  tbat  tbe 
most  gifted  of  American  poets  had  ap- 
peared. Margaret  Fuller,  who  later  criticised 
him  in  a  more  trenchant  way,  said  acutely  of 
the  work  that  its  best  encomium  was  to  be 
found  in  the  perhaps  exaggerated  admiration 
of  these  young  people;  and  Lowell  has  since 
been  his  own  severest  critic  by  omitting  most 
of  it  from  his  published  works.  Perhaps  he 
has  done  this  too  rigidly,  but  it  nevertheless 
remains  in  literature  as  a  beautiful  example 
of  shaping  influence  from  a  pure  and  devote  1 
love. 

Its  reception,  at  any  rate,  weakened  h:s 
hold  upon  the  law,  his  brief  experience  ,  i 
which  is  best  recorded  in  a  paper  by  him  en- 
titled "  The  First  Client,"  and  published  in  t!.e 
Boston  Miscellany.  This  periodical  was  ..n 
outgrowth  of  the  "  Brothers  and  Sister  ," 
as  the  coterie  of  young  friends  call  id 
themselves,  it  being  edited  by  Nathan 
Hale,  one  of  the  leaders  of  the  group, 
and  he  being  aided  by  the  contribu- 
tions of  Lowell  and  Story.  The  two  vol- 
umes edited  by  Hale  (1842-3)  are  still  worth 
inspection  as  a  landmark  in  American  litera- 
ture, exhibiting  the  first  step  out  of  tbe 
Oodey's  Lady's  Book  period  towards  the  maga- 
zine of  to-day.  Tbe  fashion-plate  was  still  re- 
tained, the  type  was  dingy,  the  criticisms 
were  conventional,  bat  a  step  was  taken. 
Lowell  himself  attempted  a  still  further  step 
in  the  Pioneer,  a  magazine  which  be  essayed 
to  conduct,  in  1843,  after  Hale  had  surren- 
dered the  Miscellany. 

The  Pioneer  took  at  once  a  higher  stand 
than  any  previous  American  magazine.  The 
element  of  costume  was  now  wholly  disregard- 
ed, and  there  were  substituted  "outlines" 
from  Flaxman,  as  being  better  than  "  a  host 
of  tawdry  fashion  plates."  The  editors  secured 
the  best  corps  of  purely  literary  contributors 
to  be  had  in  the  country — Hawthorne,  Toe, 
John  Neal,  T.  W.  Parsons;  Ellzibeth  Barrett 
tent  one  poem;  Maria  While  printed  two 
really  noble  and  beautiful  sonnets,  addressed 
to  her  betrothed,  but  without  her  name;  while 
Lowell  and  Story  wrote  profusely  under  va- 
rious names.  Whether  it  was  too  good  to 
live  is  now  uncertain,  but  it  died  after 
its  third  number,  leaving,  however,  a 
promise  which  gave  great  encourage- 
ment to  the  later  Putnam's  Magazine  and 
the  final  Atlantic  Monthly.  After  all,  the 
absence  of  capital  may  have  been  the  simpler 
key  to  ite  fate.  Lowell  could  have  commanded 


26 

very  little,  in  those  days,  of  Ibis  essential  re- 
quisite, while  his  associate,  Robert  Carter,  bad 
less.  But  Lowell's  poems  were  in  demand  in 
a  moderate  way;  indeed,  it  was  considered 
quite  a  triumph  of  tbe  muse  when  be  was 
<  fTered  $100  for  ten  poems  to  appear  in  Gra- 
ham's Magazine..  The  same  periodical  con- 
tained a  very  eulogistic  paper  on  the  new 
poet,  signed  "  P.,"  and  generally  attributed  to 
Poe,  but  really  the  work  of  the  late  Coarles  J. 
Peterson  of  Philadelphia. 

The  following  year  Lowell  was  married  and 
entored  on  a  wedded  life  which  fortunately 
did  not  disapi  oint  its  early  promise.  He  and 
bis  young  wife  took  up  their  abode  at  Elm- 
wood  with  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lowell;  and  FredriUa 
Bremer  remarked,  on  her  visit  to  this  country, 
that  it  was  tbe  only  bouse  she  had  entered 
where  two  successive  generations  had  been 
born.  Two  children  were  there  given  to  them, 
of  whom  the  elder,  Blanche,  died  young,  only 
the  younger  surviving — now  Mrs.  Edward 
Burnett,  who  still  resides  with  her  children  at 
Elmwood. 

Lowell's  volume  called  'Poems'  (1844)  show- 
ed a  maturer  development  of  his  powers, 
although,  as  often  happens  with  young  au- 
thors, the  long  poem,  "'A  Legend  of  Brittany," 
was  one  of  its  least  successful  portions.  More 
significant  was  the  sonnet  to  Wendell  Phillips, 
in  which  he  distinctly  took  Bides  with  the  abo- 
litionists, thus  predicting  the  current  of  many 
of  bis  coming  years.  The  sonnet  on  the  oppo- 
site page,  "'  In  Absence,"  was  by  Maria  Lowell. 
Next  followed  the  'Vision  of  Sir  Launfal ' 
(1845),  and  in  a  few  years  his  first  prose  work, 
'Conversations  on  Some  of  theOld  Poets'(184S), 
his  wife  contributing  to  this  also,  in  the  form 
of  a  graceful  illuminated  cover  which  she  de- 
signed. This  volume  was  based  on  his  papers 
on  the  English  dramatists  in  the  Boston  Mis- 
cellany. He  chose  for  his  book  that  conversa- 
tional form  which  Landor  had  tbeu  made 
popular,  but  not  permanent;  there  is  very  little 
of  dramatic  variation  in  Lowell's  two  inter- 
locutors, and  tbe  form  really  added  nothing. 
The  style  wa«,  moreover,  somewhat  crude,  and 
had  a  certain  cumbrousness  from  which  he  did 
not  free  himself  for  many  years;  but  the  book 
was  a  work  of  love,  represented  a  great  d  -al 
of  reading,  and  showed  the  author's  wonted 
taste  in  selections  and  citations.  In  his  pre- 
face be  makes  an  apology  for  tbe  defects  of 
the  book,  on  the  ground  of  baste,  but 
makes  no  apology  for  the  haste  itself,  and 
alludes,  rather  defiantly,  to  tbat  introduction 
of  his  anti-slavery  opinions  which  was  by  do 
means  to  his  discredit  Another  volume,  en- 
titled '  Poems:  Second  Series,'  followed  in 
1818,  containing  a  touching  poem  by  his  wife, 
"  The  Morning  Glory."  It  included  also  his 
ringing  verses  entitled  "  The  Present  Crisis," 
which  had  been  first  published  anonymously 
in  the  Boston  Courier,  and  had  attracted  more 
attention,  perhaps,  than  anything  he  had  writ- 
ten, being  at  first  attributed  to  Whittier. 
Lowell  had  now,  for  some  lime,  been  estab- 
lished, in  Willis's  phrase,  as  "  the  best-launch- 
ed poet  of  his  time." 

He  ha.i  by  this  date  thrown  in  his  lot  with 
tho  abolition ists,  was  a  vice-president  of  anti- 
slavery  societies,  a  corresponding  editor  of  the 
Anti-Slavery  Standard  (1848),  and  a  frequent 
attondant   at   conventions,  although  he  never 


spoke.  Moreover,  he  had  begun  in  1846  to 
write  for  the  Boston  Courier,  under  the  hame 
of  Homer  Wilbur,  those  satirical  verses  which 
were  to  give  him  perhaps  his  greatest  fame. 
Such  was  his  personal  reputation  for  wit  tbat 
no  one  was  surprised  at  his  writing 
them,  but  his  best  friends  were  hardly 
prepared  for  the  extraordinary  combination 
of  talent  which  appeared  in  the  collected 
volume  of  '  Blglow  Papers '  (1848)— the  learn- 
ing, tho  allusion,  tbe  Cotton-Mather  quality  of 
the  whole  setting  of  the  book,  alloyed  only 
here  and  there  by  a  visible  touch  of  Carlyiism, 
then  so  prevalent.  Twenty  years  after,  in  re- 
turning a  second  time  to  tbe  '  Papers,'  he  wrote 
in  his  preface  a  full  explanation  of  the  cir- 
cumstances under  which  tbe  original  book  was 
written. 

During  the  Mine  year  appeared  his  other 
work  of  humorous  genius,  '  The  Fable  for 
Critics'  (1848).  This  was  begun  at  a  mere 
rquib,  to  amuse  a  friend  in  New  York,  but 
grew  upon  his  hands,  and  was  published  anony- 
mously, yet  with  little  attempt  at  conceal- 
ment. It  had  an  immediate  success,  and  had 
many  brilliant  and  many  graceful  passages. 
It  cannot  be  fully  estimated,  however,  with- 
out remembering  that  it  was  written  at  a  pe- 
riod more  trenchant  than  now  —  tbe  Poe 
period  —  when  literary  personalities  were 
still  in  order,  and  when  it  was  considered 
becoming  in  literature,  as  now  In  politics, 
to  "get  even"  with  an  opponent,  as  did  Lowell 
in  this  case  with  Margaret  Fuller  and  with 
Professor  Bowen  of  Harvard  University.  Hav- 
ing become  an  associate  of  the  latter  in  the 
University,  he  modified  that  part  of  the  poem, 
and  it  was  hoped  by  some  of  his  friends  that 
he  would  ;ilso  modify  tbat  in  regard  to  Miss 
Fuller,  whose  heroic  Italian  life  and  tragic 
death  had  meanwhile  disarmed  personal  criti- 
cism; but  he  never  did. 

In  18.r,l  he  visited  Europe  with  his  wife, 
whose  health,  never  strong,  became  more  and 
more  delicate  until  her  death,  October  27,  1853, 
formed  another  era  in  his  life.  It  seemed  to 
produce  almost  a  reaction  against  former  scenes 
and  companionships,  now  painful  through 
bitter  association  with  her;  and  although  he 
allowed  his  name  to  stand  in  connection  with 
anti-Blavery  societies,  he  was  generally  re- 
garded as  having  cooled  in  sympathy.  This 
wa.4  unjustly  attributed  to  his  becoming,  in 
1855,  a  professor  in  Harvard  University,  then 
rightly  regarded  as  very  conservative.  He 
visited  Europe  again,  wrote  In  Putnam's 
Magazine,  and  became,  in  1857,  the  joint  editor 
of  the  Atlantio  Monthly.  In  this  capacity 
he  showed  much  acumen  and  ability, 
with  some  want  of  method  and  systematic  In- 
dustry. Later  (186&-1872)  he  was  editor  of  tbe 
North  American  Review,  with  his  life-long 
friend  Norton  as  co-editor.  Soon  after  hie 
wife's  death  his  brief  'Life  of  Keats'  was 
published  (1854),  prefixed  to  a  new  edition  of 
that  poet ;  this  wa°,  however,  probably  written 
earlier,  and  for  nearly  ten  yoars  after  her 
death  he  trinted  nothing  important  Even 
then  his  'Fireside  Travels'  (1864)  was  almost 
wholly  a  reprint  of  papers  written  long  before, 
and  Rcemed  hardly  enough  of  a  harvest  to  jus- 
tify so  long  a  fallow  period,  although  it  con- 
tained the  delightful  and  semi  autobiogrej  blosl 
"  Cambridge  Thirty  Years  Ago." 


In  1855  Mr.  Lowell  was  appointed  to  the 
Harvard  professorship  vacated  by  his  friend 
Longfellow,  his  title  being  that  of  "  Smith 
Professor  of  the  French  and  Branish  Lan- 
guages and  Literatures  and  Professor  of 
Belles- Lettres."  In  this  capacity  he  gave 
lectures  and  bad  classes;  but  there  was  a 
certain  constitutional  Indolence  about  him 
which  made  academio  life  not  altogether  at- 
tractive; his  pupils  sometimes  complained 
that  be  came  Into  the  recitation-room  yawn- 
ing, and  their  parents  that  he  put  a  little 
cynicism  into  his  interpretations  of  the  great 
historic  legends — such  as  may  be  seen,  for 
instance,  in  his  poem  of  "Blondel."  He 
was  always  personally  popular,  however, 
and  reflected  distinction  on  the  University 
by  his  character  and  attainments.  In  1857 
he  married  his  second  wife,  Miss  Frances 
Dunlap,  of  Portland,  Maine,  an  accomplished 
and  agreeable  woman,  who  bad  been  bis. 
daughter's  governess.  To  this  marriage  no 
children  were  born. 

Meantime  the  storm  of  the  Civil  War  had 
begun  to  gather  over  the  land;  three  of 
Lowell's  nephews — Oen.  C.  R.  Lowell,  Lieut. 
J.  J.  Lowell,  and  Lieut.  J.  J.  Putnam — fell  in 
the  struggle,  and  it  seemed  to  give  a  new  im- 
pulse to  his  productiveness.  The  second  series 
of  the  '  Blglow  Papers '  followed  (1865;,  and 
his  magnificent  "Ode"  was  recited  at  the 
Harvard  commemoration  services,  July  21, 
1865,  taking  rank  at  once  as  the  one  great 
poem  of  the  Civil  War.  A  period  of 
new  activity  followed  ;  there  succeeded 
in  quick  succession  '  Under  the  Willows, 
and  Other  Poems'  (1860),  'The  Cathedral' 
(18701,  '  Among  My  Books'  (1870,  second  series, 
1876),  '  My  Study  Windows'  (1871),  and  '  Three 
Memorial  Poems'  (1876).  He  was  a  Presidential 
elector  in  this  last  year,  and  in  the  following 
was  appointed  by  President  Hayes  (of  whose 
Cabinet  bis  classmate,  Gen.  Devens,  was 
a  member)  as  United  States  Minister  to  Spain. 
This  was  the  beginning  of  his  diplomatic  career. 

The  Spanish  mission  bad  been  by  tradition, 
since  tbe  days  of  Irving,  a  literary  distinction 
rather  than  a  public  function.  Mr.  Lowell 
found  tbe  social  duties  very  agreeable.  With- 
out the  training  of  a  diplomat,  be  had  many 
of  tbe  essential  qualities — cultivation,  bon- 
homie, patience,  and  a  ready  wit  Even  a 
certain  indolence  of  nature  stood  him  in  stead, 
since  a  large  part  of  diplomatic  duty  consists 
in  waiting.  On  hit  transfer  to  the  Court  of  St. 
James's,  he  found  some  duties  mora  complex 
awaiting  him,  in  the  settlement  of  various 
questions  relating  to  Irish- American  " sus- 
pects"; and  he  encountered  some  criti- 
cisms at  home  which  now  seem  to  have 
been  unreasonable.  His  eccial  accomplish- 
ments made  him  exceedingly  popular  in 
London,  and  if  this  popularity  seemed  to 
lie  rather  in  the  direction  of  tbe  conserva- 
tive than  of  tbe  more  progressive  English 
sentiment,  this  proceeded  evidently  from  cir- 
cumstances, and  not — as  was  at  one  time 
widely  reported— from  a  want  of  prober  Ame- 
rican feeling.  Any  doubts  on  this  subject 
were  at  once  removed,  In  all  reasonable  minds, 
by  bis  remarkable  address  on  "Democracy," 
delivered  (October  6,  1884)  at  Birmingham, 
England,  on  aesamlag  the  Presidency  of  the 


27 

Birmingham  and  Midland  Institute.  A  more 
admirable  statement  has  never  been  made 
of  the  working,  not  merely  of  guarded  repub- 
lican institutions,  but  of  the  principle  of  de- 
mocracy itself  up  to  the  present  day,  and  it 
will  go  permanently  on  record  as  a  broad 
statement  of  the  very  spirit  of  tbe  age  by  one 
of  its  finest  minds. 

It  was  published  in  a  volume, 'Democracy, 
and  Other  Addresses'  (1885).  This  contains  a 
variety  of  admirable  addresses,  mostly  lite- 
rary, and  all  delivered  in  England,  except  the 
addrers  at  Chelsea,  Mass.,  and  that  pronounced 
(November  8,  1886)  at  the  250th  anniversary  of 
tbe  founding  of  Harvard  University.  The 
whole  volume  shows  a  very  distinct  literary 
advance  above  all  bis  previous  work ;  there  is  a 
mellowness  of  tone  and  a  judicial  quality 
which  were  not  always  visible  in  bis  earlier 
critical  writings.  The  style  is  terser,  and 
wholly  disarms  some  of  the  criticisms  which 
had  been  earlier  made  upon  him,  not  wholly 
without  reason,  for  too  great  accumulation  of 
metaphor  and  too  great  prolixity  in  tbe  struc- 
ture of  his  sentences.  These  defects,  all  grow- 
ing in  reality  from  an  excess  of  wealth,  were 
keenly  pointed  out  long  since  by  Prof.  W.  C. 
Wilkinson  in  '  A  Free  Lance  in  the  Field  of 
Life  and  Letters,'  and  by  John  Foster  Kirk  in 
Lippincott's  Magazine;  but  their  objections 
certainly  do  not  bold  against  this  his  crown- 
ing volume. 

Tbe  second  Mrs.  Lowell  died  in  London, 
after  a  long  illness,  in  February,  1885.  His 
diplomatic  life  closed  in  1885,  not  abruptly, 
like  Motley's,  but  with  bis  full  consent,  and  in 
the  most  cordial  relations  with  his  successor, 
Mr.  E.  J.  Phelps,  for  whom  Lowell  predicted 
at  tbe  outset  that  successful  career  which  fol- 
lowed. Returning  home,  Lowell  resumed,  in 
a  slight  way,  bis  connection  with  the 
University,  being,  however,  transferred  soon 
after  to  an  "emeritus"  position.  He  de- 
livered lectures  before  tbe  Lowell  Institute  on 
the  old  English  dramatists,  and  gave  various 
public  addresses.  For  a  time  he  resided  with  his 
daughter  in  8outhborough,  Mass.,  but  in  1889 
returned  with  her  and  her  children,  after  pro- 
longed absence,  to  bis  birthplace,  and  occu- 
pied himself  during  a  period  of  broken  health 
in  a  Life  of  his  old  friend  Hawthorne,  for  the 
"  American  Men  o   Letters  "  Series. 

It  is  too  early  to  anticipate  the  judgment  of 
posterity  on  Lowell's  position  in  literature. 
All  will  now  admit  him  to  have  been  th 
author  of  the  finest  t iogle  poem  yet  produced 
in  this  country,  tbe  "Commemoration  Ode"; 
to  have  reached  in  his  '  Blglow  Papers '  the 
high- water  mark  of  American  humor;  to 
have  been  unquestionably,  despite  all  ne- 
cessary allowances,  our  foremost  critic;  and 
to  have  done  more,  probably,  than  any 
man  to  command  for  our  institutions, 
in  all  their  aspects,  tbe  respect  of  the 
English-speaking  world.  His  fame  was  not, 
like  that  of  his  friend  Longfellow— or  even 
like  that  of  Cooper,  Mrs.  8towe,  and  Bret 
Harte— international;  few  of  his  writings,  if 
any,  were  translated  into  other  languages  than 
bis  own.  But  this  is,  after  all,  a  very  uncer- 
tain test  of  merit ;  and  it  is  probable  that  no 
American  author,  unless  it  be  EmersoD,  has 
achieved  a  securer  hold  upon  a  lasting  fame. 


In  his  political  aspect,  nothing  ceo  be  more 
certain  than  that  bis  reputation  will  grow 
with  time,  and  that,  to  say  nothing  <f  tee 
vigor  and  originality  of  bis  thought,  bis  fode- 
pendecce,  which  of  late  years  brought  down 
upon  him  a  shower  of  partisan  abuse  hardly 
to  be  matched  in  any  country,  or  ia  any  ago, 
for  indecency,  will  be  rated  asaoag  ale  WW* 
ing  glorias.     _________ _ ---_---. 

SILEKTLYSK1E0 

.James  Russell   Lowell,  Poet  and 

Diplomat,  Passes  Away  at  Hia 

Cambridge  Home. 


His    Career   oa    Minister   to    Madrid 

cud   the    Court    of   St. 

James. 


A  Remarkablo  Cheerfulness    Main- 
tained Despite  His  Many  Years 
of  Suffering:. 


How  His  Wife  Prevented  Him   Froi 
Injuring   His    Health    by 
Overwork. 


Ke   Converted   Gladstone    to    Home 

Rule  for  Ireland— Sketch 

of  His  Life. 


Boston,  August  12.— Hon.  James  Russell 
Lowell  died  at  his  home  in  Cambridge  at 
2:15  this  morning.  Mr.  Lowell  himself  never 
inquired  as  to  the  nature  of  his  malady. 
From  inquiries  it  was  ascertained  that  an  eld 
enemy  of  his,  the  gout,  has  afflicted  him 
almost  constantly  of  late,  and  that  sciatica, 
hemorrhages,  and  latterly  a  severe  type  of 
liver  disease  have  in  turn  affected  him.  Mr. 
Lowell's  health  has  b"en  impaired  ever  since 
his  return  to  this  country  in  1835  after  con- 
cluding his  diplomatic  services  of  eight 
years,  three  years  at  Madrid  and  five 
at  the  Court  of  St.  James.  The  death 
of  his  wife,  in  the  midst  of  his  social 
and  diplomatic  success  in  London  as 
the  representative  of  this  country  had  an 
uutoward  effect  npon  his  health,  which  was 
then  becoming  broken.  lie  returned  to  bis 
borne  at  Cambridge,  tftat  Elmwwod  so  full  of 
history,  and  where  with  brief  .interval*  he 
has  spent  the  whole  seventy-two  years  of  his 
life.  His  life's  loss  weighed  heavily  upon 
his  mind.  Evtn  then  he  was  beginning  to 
fail  visibly  in  a  physical  way,  and  went  into 
society  little,  preferring  to  enjoy  quietly  the 
companionship  of  his  books,  and  gradually 
dropping  into  the  recluse  life  of  a  semi-inva- 
lid. Ho  was  forbidden  to  take  the  long 
walks  which  lie  so  much  enjoyed  and  which 
yielded  such  abundant  fruit  in  his  works, 
aud  later  driving  even  was  prohibited*.  Ilis 
friends,  when  they  culled  at  Elmwood,  in- 
variably found  him  with  an  open  volume  be- 


fore  hi  in,  but  ready  to  lay  it  aside  and  con- 
Terse  on  every  day  topica  with  all  the  men- 
tal rigor  he  ever  possessed.  Three  Cam- 
bridge gentlemen,  old  friends  of  his,  who 
had  with  him  formed  a  whist  dab,  found  t  hat 
tor  some  time  be. had  been  mating  unusual 
efforts  to  be  present  at  the  game,  or  which  he 
was  so  fond,  and  learning  that  it  was  at  the 
expense  of  his  failing  health,  this,  the  last 
social  enjoyment  he  indulged,  in,  was  also 
given  up.  A  year  and  a  h  .If  ago  his  condi-'i 
lion  became  ro  serious  and  a  fatal  termina- 
tion was  feared,  but.  his  health  then  had  the11 
chnnee  of  recovery. 

His  life  at  Elmwood  has  been  almost  de- 
void of  incident.  One  or  two  friends  have 
dropped;  in  -from  day  to  -  days  -  his  stnd-  I 
ics  hare  been  pursued  whenever  po  siblc,and  ' 
his  geniality  and  lightness  of  spirit  even 
when  sobering  have  been  remarkable.  A 
complete  revision  of  his  works  in  prose  and 
verse  was  undertaken  and  completed,  a  tcsk 
in  itself  of  considerable  ma^tiitn-lo  and 
which  undoubtedly  made  a  decided  stn»in 
upon  his  Impaired  vitality.  He  had  also 
written  a  charming  introduction  to  "Isaak 
Walton's  Works"  and  contributed  a  few 
pieces  of  verse  to  the  Atlantic.  Mrs.  Har- 
nett, hhi  only  child,  has  been  with  him  con- 
stantly. She  is  his  only  ne.>r  relative,  ex- 
cept a  brother,  Robert,  whose  whereabouts 
uncertain. 

It  appears  that  the  poet  was  taken  sick 
about  five  weeks  ago.  About  two  weeks  or 
more  ago  be  became  delirious  and  np  to  Mon- 
day he  recovered  consciousness  only  at  brief 
intervals  when  ho  gave  members  of  his 
family  signs  of  recognition.  He  seemed  to 
think  he  was  for  away  from  homo  and  ap- 
peared to  long  to  get  bark  to  Elmwood  and 
his  family.  At  time*,  too,  he  fancied  he  was 
entertaining  royal  visitor*.  Though  unques- 
tionably the  pain  was  very  great  he  made  no 
complaint.  Last  Snnday  he  seemed  better, 
aud  the  delirium  left  him.  On  Monday  be 
appeared  brighter  than  at  any  time  during 
his  long  illness.  Up  to  trial  time  the  room 
had  been  cool,  but  be  then  began  to  show  the 
effect  of  tlio  heat.  Ou  Mouday  afternoon 
when  the  nurse  changed  tlio  bedding  he 
suffered  intensely  when  moved  and  finnly 
said:  "Oh,  why  don't  you  let  mo  die/' 
These  words  were  his  last.  He  secme  I  from 
that  time  to  lose  heart,  and  gradually  his  life 
faded  away.  He  continued  in  a  comatose 
condition  until  2:15  o'clock  this  morning, 
when  the  last  cpark  of  life  went  out.  Be- 
side him  in  his  last  momen  s  were  the  sister 
of  his  first  wife,  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Kdward 
Burnett,  nnd  ber  husband,  the  ex-Congress- , 
man.  as  well  as  the  nurses  and  servants  of 
the  household  to  whom  he  had  always  been  so 
kind  that  a  strong  attachment  had  sprang  up. 

At  the  mansion  of  the  Elmwood  esinte, 
where  Lowell  died,  there  were  no  members 
of  the  family  to-day  but  the  daughter  and  the  ! 
«ui-in-law  of  the  poet.  His  body  lies  in  his 
own  sleeping  apirtment,  where  the 
last  hours  of  hi*  life  were  spent. 
The  nurse  who  watched  over  him  dnriog  his 
illness  is  still  at  the  house.  She  was  pros- 
ent  at  his  bedside  from  the  time  when 
ho  became  unconscious  Monday  evening  un- 
til he  died,  early  this  morning,  except  for 
absence  of  ii  few  "minutes.  His  death  was  ex- 
tremely peaceful.  Although  it  was  known 
that  he  could  not  live  much  longer,  his  death 
was,  nevertheless,  r»th-r  uuexpeoted. 

Late  Mondav  afternoon,  after  a  few  hours 
of  brightness,  lie-  began  to  wander  again, and 
whatever  he  said  after  that  time  was  aimless. 
In  a  few  hours  he  became  nncmscious,  and 
he  ucver  regained  his  mind.  The  transition 
from  sleep  to  death  was  so  easy  that  for  a  few 
moments  u. -body  in  tho  room  observed  tlia. 
lie  m.d  ceased  to  breathe.  There  were  pro  -cut 
at  his  bedside  when  he  breathed  his  lust,  his 
daughter  Mabel  aud  her  husband,  Vr.  Bur- 
nett, with  hi»  first  wife's  sister,  Mrs.  Howe, 
and  the  nnr.-e.  Ilia  eves  were  closed  and 
they  never  opened.  He  passed  away  with; 
only  a  heavy  sk»h  to  indicate  the  separation  | 
of  llie  Ktcai  soul  from  the  worn  out  body. 
.  The  fit  it  era)  will  he  held  Friday  *at  noon  in 
Applcton  Chapel,  Cambridge.  It  is  proba- 
ble that  Bishop-elect  Phillips  Brooks  will 
.officiate.  -^       - 


88 

*^SCt.  Jewell  hfld  greatly  refretfcd  \htX  the 
state  of  his  health  would  not  admit  of  his 
parsing  (his  summer  a'  bis  iwual  summer  re- 
sort in  Sotlthboro.  The  one  regret  of  his  pub- 
lishers wns  thai  lie  would  not  write  more. 
For  more  than  thirty  wars  Houghtou,  Mifflin 
4:  Co.  h:ul  been  his  publishers.  "They  say  his 
manuscript  was  always  in  his  own  hand- 
writing, nnd  was  "beautiful  copy,"  nerfcetly 
legible,  and  had  very  few  erasures.  Mr. 
Lowell,  they  said,  wns  a  charming  caller.  He 
could  not  write  them  a  short,  informal  note 
even  npon  a  matter  the  most  trivial  without 
making  it  bright,  witty,  nnd  characteristic. 
Speaking  of  ilic  great  ode  which  he  read  at 
the  dedication  of  Harvard  Universitv  Me- 
morial Hall  they  remarked  that  he  fiad  in 
this  oroduction  achieved  the  grcntest  work 
of  the  age  in  this  direction,  and  they  s«id 
that  he  had  in  its  composition,  in  addition  to 
the  incentive  of  patriotimi,  the  sense  of  per- 
sonal loss,  three  of  bis  nephews  having  par- 
ticipated in  the  conflict,  and  one  of  them,  the 
lamented  Colonel  Shaw,  a  young  man  of  the 
brightest  promise  for  the  future,  having  been 
slain  in  battle. 

Mr.  Lowell  bad  a  period  of  lUcrnry  inac- 
tivity after  the-  death  of  his  tirst  wife,  but 
the  ou:break  of  hostilities  between  the  States 
broke  up  bis  lethargy  and  sorrow.  The  same 
thing  happened  after  the  death  of  his 
second  wife.  The  bereaved  husband  was 
for  a  long  time  utterly  inconsolable.  Dur- 
ing this  season  of  sorrow  ninuy  feared  for  his 
health,  and  there  were  some,  indeed,  who 
dreaded  the  result  to  the  sensitive  rated  of 
.  the  stricken  man.  Besides  being  in  closest 
•vmuathy  with  him  in  his  literary  prcdelic- 
tions,  she  was  ever  solicitous  for  his  physical 
comfort.  The  affection  of  this  pair  for  each 
other  was  most  tender  and  'deep.  She  made 
it  her  personal  care  to  see  that  be  was  not 
permitted  to  pursue  his  literary  wcrk  or 
recreation  to  the  injury  of  his  health.  How- 
ever charming  the  volume  in  which  lie  might 
be  for  the  time  engrossed,  aud  however  in- 
tent he  might  be  elaborating  ana  rounding 
out  the  particular  trope  or  stanza,  whenever 
Mrs.  Lowell  deemed  that  the  time  was  come  for 
exercise  and  food,  she  would  inve.de  his  hall 
of  delight  and  bear  him  off  her  prisoner.  And 
her  care  was  needful,  for,  alin-at^Ii  Mr.  Lo- 
well was  regarded  as  a  leisurely  writer,  aud 
although  as  an  author  he  could  do  nothing 
or  would  do  nothing,  as  he  himself  admitted, 
npon  compulsion;  when  the  mood  was  upon 
him  he  would  read  or  write  unceasingly  for 
hours  nf  a  time.  Persons  who  claim  to  know 
the  facts  say  that  Mr.  Gladstoue  declared  to 
an  American  visitor  that  it  wns  to  the  un- 
answerable arguments  smf  the  flawless  logic 
of  Mr.  Lowell  that  his  own  conversion  to 
home  rule  for  Ireland  was  due.  The  same 
gentleman  stated  that  co  far  from  any  decline 
having  taken  place  in  Mr.  Lowell's  repub- 
lican _  principles  during  his  residence  in 
England,  he  was  if  anything  more  intensely 
American  than  ever  after  his  return 
to  this  country.  He  would  declare  to  the 
younger  men  of  his  acquaintance  thst  the 
glorious  destiny  of  this  country  snd  the  per- 
manency of  her  institutions  were  not  for  a 
moment  to  he  donbtcd  nor  despaired  of;  and 
he  added  that  sltnongh  Mr.  Lowell  was  a  man 
of  the  kindliest  nature,  he  had  uo  compunc- 
tion in  ruffling  the  plumage  of  such  Ameri- 
can young  men  as  he  met  with  in  whom 
residence  abroad  bad  engendered  a  'lighting 
tone  of  mind  towards  their  native  land  and 
ber  people.  Thia  gentleman  related  the  fact 
of  the  great  friendship  which  Mr.  Lowell  had 
for  Mr.  Gladstone  and  the  Earl  of  Derby  as 
an  illustration  of  the  American  Minister's 
mental  fairness.  The  English  peer  and  tha 
great  commoner  were  as  wide  as  the  poles 
from  each  other  in  political  ideas,  but  Mr. 
Lowell  saw  in  each  of  them  parity  of  motive 
snd  integrity  of  purpose. 

Sketch  of  His  Career. 

James  Russell  LoweU  was  born  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  on  February  22,  1819.  His 
father,  ltev.  Charles  Lowell,  was  for  more 
than  half  a  century  pastor  of  the  West  Con- 
gregational Church,  of  Boston.  The  Ameri- 
can founder  of  the  house  came  from  Bristol, 
Eng.,  to  Newburg,  Massr,  in  1639,  only  nine-  > 


teen  years  after  the  landing  of  the  Pilgrims,  j 
and  the  family  had  long  been  well  knowa  ia.  I 
New  England  before  its  most  famous  mem- 
ber began  his  career. 

The  poet  whose  death  is  announced  this 
morning  was  educated  at  Harvard,  where  ha 
graduated  in  1838.  His  class  poem  was  pub- 
lished and  attracted  some  notice.  He  studied 
law  and  was  admitted  to  the  bar  In 
1841,  but  his  literary  beat  was  too 
strong  to  permit  him  to  fol- 
low the  practice  of  bis  profession. 
Mr.  Lowell's  first  volume  of  poems  appeared 
iu  1841,  and  it  contained  some  verse  which.' 
retains  a  place  iu  later'  collections  of  his 
works.  Iu  1843  ho  published,  with  Robert 
Carter,  an  illustrated  magazine  called  the 
Pioneer.  Poe  and  Hawthorne  contributed  to 
it,  but  the  venture  proved  a  financial  failure. 
The  next  year  another  volume  of  - 
poems  appeared,  showing  a  note- 
worthy advance  o\tr  the  author's  first 
efforts.  In  1343  a  third  volume  of  verse  at- 
tracted wider  attention  to  Lowell's  genius.  . 
It  contained  strong  anti-slavery  poems  which 
stirred  the  heart  of  New  England  and  pot 
the  young  master  in  the  front  ranks  of  the 
straggle  for  libertv  in  the  South.  His  "Virioa 
of  Sir  Launfal,''  published  iu  that  year, 
established  his  fame  in  the  high* 
est  realm  of  lyric  poetry  aa 
itrmly  as  the  Biglow  papers  (first  series),  did 
his  reputation  as  a  master  of  satire  and  hn- 
mor.  The  second  series  of  these  immortal 
dialect  poems  appoared  during  the  civil  war 
in  the  Aliunde  Slonthty.  In  1843,  also,  was 
published  that  brilliant  critical  essay  in 
verse,  "A  Fable  for  Critics"  which  wsa 
a  wonderful  production  for  a  young 
scholar  nf  twenty-nine.  In  1851  Mr.  LoweU 
went  to  Europe,  and  for  several  years  there- 
after he  published  nothing  but  articlea  lq'r4f 

North  American  Rerieio md  other  periedii  «* 
In  1855  be  succeeded  Longfellow  as  professor 
ot  modern  languages  and  belles  tettres  in 
Harvard  and  spent  a  year  of  preparation 
in  Europe.  In  1857,  while  zealously 
discharging  his  college  duties,  he 
became  the  editor,  at  the  some  time,  of  the 
Atlantic  ilontldy,  which  was  started  in 
November  of  that  year.  After  five  years  of 
successful  work  in  this  field  he  resigned,  but 
soon  joined  his  friend,  Charles  E.  Norton,  in 
condncting  the  North  American  Revimt.  In 
18t>4  he  published  a  new  volume,  "Fire- 
side Travels,"  and  in  1867  another  ae- 
ries of  Biglow  Papers.  The  beauti- 
ful and  noble  "Commemoration  Ode" 
and  other  briUiRnt  poems  graced  the 
volumes  of  verse  published  in  the  next  two 
years,  "Under  the  Willows"  appearing  ia 
1868 and  "The  Cathedral"  in  18t».  In  1870 
and  1871  his  charming  prose  essays,  "Among 
My  Books"  and  "My  Study  Windows,"  were 
given  to  the  world. 

In  1S72  Mr.  !/>wcll  again  visited  Europe 
and  was  honored  by  Oxford  and  Cam- 
bridge with  the  degrees  of  I>.  C.  L.  and 
LI/.  I).,  beside  receiving  other  recognition  of 
his  great  talent*.  In  June,  1877,  President 
IHayes  appointed  him  Minister  to  Spain.  In 
I  So  I  lie  was  promoted  to  the  British  mission, 
I  which  he  filled  until  he  resigned  in  1835, 
when  Cleveland  went  into  office.  In  these 
ihigh  diplomatic  stations  he  added  greatly  to 
1  the  reputation  of  his  country  for  scholarship 
laud  culture,  and  many  high  honors  were 
I  bestowed  npon  him.  Since  his  return  to  his 
'native  land  he  has  lived  a  quiet  life,  oaca- 
sioiislly  delivering  a  notable  public  address  . 
'  and  issuing  various  poems  of  allhisold  power 
;uul  beauty.  His  "lJeinoeraey  nnd  other  Ad* 
|  dresses,"  a  collection  oi'  some  of  his  most 
notable  public  utterances,  proved  him  o  m  of 
I  the  grearcst  of  orators  and  students  ot  cur- 
rent problem-.  Until  the  la»t  he  retained 
his  interest  in  current  events,  aud  his  love  of 
"igdj.  never  flagged.  £   -.  ,    ..,    „«. 


TO  THE  SPOT  OFHISUROOSING 

The  Remains  of  Lowell  Will 
Be  Borne  Today. 


Grave  Romantically  Militated   in   Mt. 

Auburn   In    ln«  Poet's   Family   Lot. 

Kear  the  Tomb  of  JUnirrflloir-Qiietu 
Victoria     Sends     an     Expression    of 

Sorrow. 

Everything  is  Id  readiness  ac  ML  AuDurn 
to  receive  cbe  remains  of  (be  late  James 
Kusseil  Lowell,  which  will  be  Duned  today. 

TDe  gr.ive  is  In  the  centre  of  tne  family  lot 
on  the  right  of  Fountain  avenue— the  first 
avenue  on  the  left  of  the  entrance. 

The  lot  Is  a  double  one,  containing  the  re- 
mains of  generations  of  Lowells  and  r"ut- 
nams,  the  latter  being  Mr.  Lowell's  only 
living  sister's  family.  It  Is  conspicuous  on 
account  of  Its  extreme  plainness  and  sim- 
plicity. It  Is  unlnclosed,  being  without  gran- 
ite cumine,  hedge  or  even  location  Hocus. 
No  monument  marks  the  spot,  and  only 
small,  plain  tombstones  are  at  the  bead  of 
each  grave,  bearing  the  following  inscrip- 
tions: 

Charles  RntseU  Lowell,  died  Jane  23. 187a 

James  Jackson  Lowell,  lieutenant  SOlh  .Massa- 
chusetts ToMnteer.  died  Jane  4,  1883. 

Samuel  R.  Pntnam,  died  Dec.  '.'4, 1S6L 

\V  1111am  Lowell  Putnam,  SOtb  regiment  Massa- 
chusetts volunteers,  kiiieu  at  nail*  Bind  OcL  21, 
18G1. 

Annie  CaboULowel),  died  Jan.  7. 1874. 

Charles  Unwell  Lowell,  colonel  second  Massa- 
chusetts carulry,  died  Oct.  20. 1861 

Charlu  Lowell  Puinam.  died  >epi.  10,  1347, 

Ke.'iccca  Russell  Lowell,  daughter  of  Charles 
Lowell,  L>.  D.,  aled  11  r.y  30,  1872. 

The  spot  which  lias  been  selected  for  the 
poet's  grave. -and  wblcb,  It  Is  understood,  was 
of  his  own  choosing.  Is  romautlcaliy  situated 
under  two  urge  bombesin  trees,  one  ot 
wiilcn  is  directly  at  the  foot  of  the  urate  and 
tbr  other  on  the  riant  of  1m  head.  These 
trees  are  never  trimmed,  and  th  -lr  chief 
charm  Is  their  natural  and  weird  growth. 

Tne  I*  t  is  in  a  valley  In  the  rear  ol  the  ceme- 
tery, and  directly  in  the  Shadow  of  the  Long- 
fellow lot.  on  Indian  Hldce  avenue,  wh>re 
rest  tne  remains  of  America's  famous  bard. 
Thus  the  c^o  poets  »bo  were  neighbors  in 
life  may  be  said  to  occupy  toe  same  retail  _>u  In 
death. 

The  dead  poet's  remains  He  In  the  room  in 
wbl>'t<  he  a.ed,  on  the  second  floor  in  the 
southeast  corner  of  "Elmwood.'' 

There  will  be  ho  services  at  the  bouse  or 
grave,  but  only  at  App.etim  chapel. 

The  pallbearers  wilt  be  Hasan.  Ch->rtr>s  F. 
Choate,  John  Bolires,  Oliver  Wendell 
Holmes,  W.  D.  Ho  wells.  CDnstopher  F. 
Craocb,  Charles  Eliot  Norton,  Joun  Bartleit 
and  Prof.  Cbtld. 

Yesterday  a  lartre  number  of  rrlenda  called 
at  Elmwood,  and  many  strangers  viewed  the 
bouse  from  the  street,  while  some,  in  car- 
riages, drove  through  the  grounds. 

Mrs.  Burnett  Is  so  greatlv  improved  that 
sue  will  be  able  to  attend  CDs  funeral,  wbieh 
at  first  was  doubtful,  •>  log  to  prostration 
cacsed  by  her  f  i  tiler's  death. 

Cablegrams  were  received  yesterday  from 
a  number  of  friends  of  Mr.  Lowell,  wttb 
wb  in  lie  became  Inornate  wbea  at  tne  court 
of  St.  James. 


AN    1NSPIRER  OF  PATRIOTISM. 

K.     W.    OUrter's    Feel  In  sr    Tribute    to 
Jamil    atsueSil    Lswell. 

rSpeclal  Dispatch  to  tbt  Boston  Herald.  1 
Marion,  auk.  18, 1891.  Mr.  R.  W.  Glider 
of  the  Century  ssld  today,  speaking  of  the 
death  of  James  Euaseli  Lowell,  that,  although 
he  bad  learned  of  Mr.  Lowell's  condition  from 
ihe  family,  the  actual  news  of  bis  death  came 
as  a  shock,  and  great  personal  bereavement 
to  both  himself  and  Mrs.  Glider ;  tatasrae 
from  grief  at  the  loss  Of  a  frteod.  be  felt  that 
the  country  suffered  greatly  at  what  was 


29 

really  an  untimely  acuta,  for,  uutii  this  last 
Illness.  Mr.  Lowell's  youtnfuiness  ot  spirit 
ana  apparent  vitality  gave  promise  of  j  ears 
of  Intellectual  productiveness. 

"Air.  Lowell." 'added  Mr.  Uilder,  "was  not 
only  a  great  poet  aud  a  great  scholar,  but  a 
great  citizen.  I  reran  him  also  as  one  of  the 
most  able  and  effective  polricians  that  tbis 
country  has  ever  produced,  us.ng  the  word  In 
Its  true  and  undegraoed  sense.  Not  only  by 
bis  ex  mpie  and  the  Inspiration  of  his  c.ireer 
dt  t  be  foster  American  literature,  but  also 
by  his  quickness  to  recogulze  t  tlent  and  a 
pure  Intention  in  others,  especially  In  his 
juniors. 

"He  was  an  lnspirer  also  of  American  pa- 
triotism, a  fearless  critic  of  our  coun- 
try's shortcomings,  but  a  firm  and  prophetic 
believer  In  its  bitch  destiny. 

"Many  a  young  writer  has  been  helped  to 
success  by  his  generous  encouragement,  and 
bo  was  one  of  toe  first.  If  not  the  very  first. 
of  his  group  to  discover  and  widely  proclaim 
ton  Dolitir.nl  virtue  and  sagacity  of  Lincoln. 

"We  shall  have  other  great  ooets  and 
patriots,  but  never  another  Lowell." 

THE    QUEEN    EXPRESSES  SORROW. 

The  Queen  of  England  has  conveyed  her 
regret  at  the  news  ot  Mr.  Lowell's  death. 
Mr.  Burnett  received  the  following  message 
yesterday: 

WaamxoTOir,  an*.  IS,  18fll. 

To  the  Hon.  Edward  Itorneu,  Cambridge,  Mass.: 
The  hi  ittsh  minister  at  this  aanttat  has  lurwarded 
to  this  department  the  following  telegram  from  lit 
It  Annuls  of  Salisbury: 

"i  Iih  Queen  desires  te  express  her  sorrow  and  re- 
gret at  the  news  which  has  lost  reached:  tnt»  conntry 
(hoiiland)  of  Mr.  Lowell's  death." 
William:  f.  WMAarrXM,  Acting  Secretary  of  State. 


JAMES  RUSSELL  LOWELL. 

CFor  the  Transcript. 3 

THE   IIUST   rOII. 

The  poet  sleeps;  no  more  he  dreameth  dreams 
Beneath  the  glittering  stars.— to  wake  and  tell. 
No  more  he,  clarion-voiced,  will  sinu  away 
Men's  heavy   burdens  and  with  mighty  min- 

'    strelay 
Smite,  note  by  note,  their  fetters  free. 
Ah!  what  divine  and  wondrous  themes 
Are  his  to  choose  whose  feet  nov:  stray 
In  heavenly  fields,  who.  Hying,  loved  so  well 
The  flowess  that  hidden  In  the  wild  woods  dwell 
That  every  tender  grace  they  wore 
He  set  in  some  sweet  song  to  bloom  forover- 
morel 

The  poet  sleeps.  His  was  no  wearied  flight 
That  circled  upward  to  the  infinite. 
And  yet  deep-hidden  he  wore  the  scars 

That  shone  to  heaven  like  stars. 
How  deep  and  wonderful  the  peace 
He  weareth  now!  Death  with  its  high  release 
Has  brought  him  sweep 
Of  the  illimitable  harmonies. 

So—let  him  sleep ; 
New  visions  and  now  flowers  he  sees. 

And  anastonished  Lean  » 

Sublime  immensities  of  song  outlyrick'd  by  the 
spheres. 

O  silent  poet  I  in  thy  hushed  heart  lies 
Knowledge  of  unencompassed  mysteries. 
Thou  sleepest  well ;  and  yet— oar  eyes  are  wet. 
II  thy  mate  lips  could  breathe  the  world's  regTet 
Then  fit  the  song.     Elsewhere  thy  soul  has 

found 
Music  Ineffable,  and  so  been  crowned 
With  cadences  celestial ;  thou  art 
Of  the  Eternal  Symphony  a  part. 

And  *neath  thino  eyes 
In  the  white  light  of  heaven  eternal  bsauty  lies. 
Mb-.  AV hiton-Stohx.   , 
.         ...    «-n^.tiavi».iiT   «i 

"-      JAMES  RUSSELL  LOWELL. 

The  Caaes  of  Ilia  Dcnih—  Arrnneememe 
for  the  Fnoernl  ess  Friday— Rewind. 
eeace. 

Mr.  Lowell's  death  was  aus  to  a  tamor  on  the 
liver,  the  origin  of  which  eroee  back  to  his- seri- 


ous Illness  of  18  months  ago.  During  this 
period  he  had  been  an  intense  sufferer, 
but  he  hsd  borne  his  sufferings  with 
immense  fortitude,  patience  and  cheerfulness.' 
He  died  in  icrnorance  of  ths  nature  of  his  mal- 
ady, never  having  cared  to  be  informed  about 
it.  The  disease  took  on  an  acuta  form  two  sr 
three  weeks  ago,  sines  which  time  he 
had  been  more  or  leu  under  the  influr 
ence  ot  opiates.  Bis  delirium  was  the  natural 
consequence  of  a  very  severe  sickness,  but 
never  during  his  confinement  was  there  the 
least  nartlcle  of  evidence  of  mental  decay.  Mr. 
Lowell  was  under  the  skillful  and  watchful 
care  of  his  son-in-law,  Dr.  H.  P.  Wot- 
cott,  in  the  absence  abroad  of  Dr. 
Morrill  Wyman.  who  had  always  been 
his  physician,  although  ths  hitter's  advice  had 
been  received  by  mail  on  more  than  one  occa- 
sion, lu  addition  to  the  services  of  his  physician 
>  two  trained  nurses  had  been  constantly  by  his 
side. 

Although  on  Sunday  he  seemed  brighter  and 
his  delirium  left  bim,  the  hot  weather  of  the 
last  two  days  put  him  back  again  to  where  he 
was  be/ore. 

Monday,  as  resorted  at  ths  time,  be  passed 
an  unfavorable  day.  When  the  nurses  changed 
the  bedding  in  theafternoon  he  seamed  to  suffer 
iulense  pain,  and  finally  exclaimed,  "Oht  why 
don'r-you  let  me  die?"         '   - 

From  that  time  he  seemed  to  lose  heart. 
On  Tuesday  his  condition  demanded  ths 
unremitting  attention  of  his  physician* 
and,  although  ths  doctor  was  with  htm 
a  good  part  of  the  e  renin*,  he  did  no.  anticipate 
death,  and  in  fact  was  not  with  ths  patient 
when  he  passed  away.   . 

Mr.  Lowell's  death  and  the  Ion*  and  constant 
attention  given  him  by  his  daughter.  Mrs.  Bur- 
nett, has  completely  prostrated  Jest  and  she  Is 
utterly  unable  to  see  sny  one. 

The  :.- ran  cements  for  the  funeral  of  Mr. 
Lowell  have  been  definitely  completed.  Ser- 
vices will  be  held  at  Apnleten  Chapel  Friday 
at  13  o'cloek  and  will  be  conducted  by  Bt.  Rev. 
Bishop  Brooks  and  Bev.  William  Lawrence. 
The  burial  will  be  st  Mt  Auburn.  4 

■tcawlaleceeieee. 

Prof.  John  Flske  of  Harvard,  In  tweaking  of 
Mr.  Lowell  yesterday  te  a  Journal  rc- 
oortcr,  reverted  to  the  time  In  bis  college 
days  when  be  began  tne  study  of  Italian 
sndcr  Prof.  Lowell's  Instruction.  Prof. 
Flske  said  that  when  bs  and  six  or  eight 
fellow-students  were  ready  to  enter  the  ad- 
vanced class  Mr.  Lowell  suzgested  that  it  would 
Ibe  pleasauter  to  bold  the  recitations  at  his 
house,  and  ths  offer  was  taken  advantage  of. 
There  the  speaker  said,  be  spent  masy 
most  delightful  hours,  two  evenings  in  tho 
week.  Mr.  Lowell  was  a  matchless  Dante 
sctiol.iT,  and  no  commentator  was  necessary  with 
him  present  "No experience."  said  Prof.  Fiske, 
"wa«  so  valuable  and  no  instruction  in  the. 
a  hole  course  of  my  college  career  was 
ro.rr.ed  with  so  much  pleasure  as  under  these 
si  -  -pices.  There  was  no  professor  of  whom  I 
was  fonder,  and  since  then  through  life  Prof. 
Lowell  has  been  a  warm  friend  of  mine.  I  last 
saw  bim  iu  Jane,  and  felt  afraid  then  that  I 
should  not  see  him  aiive  acatn.  1  had  antici- 
pated his  death,  and  was  therefore  prepared 
whan  I  heard  ot  It  The  dead  poet's  life  had 
been  a  remarkably  complete  and  well,  rounded 
lone,  but  we  would  have  been  glad  to  have  bad 
it  a  longer  one." 

Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  at  his  summer  resl- 
'  dct: co  at  Beverly  Farms  yesterday  afternoon, 
'  was  asked  to  speak  a  few  word*  In  tribute  to  his 
deceased  friend.  This,  however,  he  courteously 
;  doclined  to  da 

"I  have  not  the  leajt  desire,"  said  be,  in  ths 
course  of  a  pleasant  conversation,  "to  cast  any 
reproach  upon  tbe  newspapers,  for  I  understand 
tho  demands  of  a  voracious  public.  But  iu  this 
ea/to  I  must  not  speak.  Mr.  Lowell  was  my 
valued  literary  and  personal  friend  for  many 


year?.     Ho   is  hardly   ret   'cold.'    Tbo    usual 

obituary  notices  have.  I  presume,  beoti  pr^iod 
in  the  newspapers.  I  feel  that  an>  ihlng  fur-' 
tber  just  now  would  not  bo  In  the  be*t  tasta 
Later  on  rerhacs  sometiitne  in  tbo  way  f 
'tributes'  or  rouiiniscences  mieht  bo  well,  but 
uotuow.  Some  time  some  one  will  havo  tho  very 
serious  task  of  giving  to  the  world  an  Account 
of  Mr.  Lowell's  life  aud  work." 

An    amusing   incident   is    rolaiod 
Lowell  aud  an  old  lrisbrna 
knew  very  well.    A  frien<L*^lIIIS  Irishman 
tho  mis  for  tune  to  bscogi^r»rotogo  of  tho  county! 
at  Hie  East  CambsMfre  Jail,  mid  t».v«  oros'poct 
was  that  he  would  lay  inoarcerat«d  thj,-j,  orwf 
the  Fourth  of  July  iiwthe  slmnj;  rffison  that  ha 
was     unable     to     m mt,  .+-  »io     lino.       The. 
Irishman  went   to   Mr.^LoTell   for   assistance,' 
saying     to     him,     aftt»     a     good     deal      of 
hemming  and  hawing  thai 
was  a  Cambridge  boy  anu  hi^ 
also  a  Cambridge  bey,  he    _. 
willing       to       help       this      friend      out      br 
advancing     the     money     to     pay      tho     fin" 
Mr.    I  r..vell    did   so   without    argument, 
anotlitr  timo  Mr.  Lowell,  upon:  coming  to  Ca 
brides  after  returning  irom  abroad,  was  seen 
shako     bauds    cordially    with    all    oid    Iris 
maD,       and       likewise       with       an      in   u 
acquaintance     not     very     nidi     up     in     tl 
sociil  scale.    Some  friends    tooK  oxcrn'tons  t 
his  actions,  but  Mr.  Lowell  replied  in  <  fTnct  thai 
!■     two   uieu  were  old  schoolmate*  of  hK  and 
i •■ :  .  v  ere  Cambridge  boys,  and   that  bo  aiv.a 
r.      gnizod  a  Cat^sridge  boy  when  ho  met  li' 

These  Ineirienvp  not  only  go  to  show 
Lowell's  love  fo«tls  native  city  and  its  pe 
but  illustrate  Li  tvViaracterlstiealiy  plain,  «* 
cralic  and  con^ptrale  qualities  even  t< 
those  who  werek^  beneath  him.       •  ■  ~j 


N, 


.  a  koou  ueai  or 
I'll,  ho  (Mr.  Lowollj 
k  .><rientLln.lj»iLjBM 
lIicuu-iii  no  would  t>(t~ 


Isaac  F.  Wood,  of  Hah  way.  No* '  Jersey, 
si  correspondent  of  the  New  York  Evening 
Post,  says:  "Amoa?  my  autographs  '{so- 
licited) is  one  from  the  late  James  Russell 
Ixswell,  sent  me  years  ms;o.  I  have  never 
seeu  It  In  print.  It  Is  characteristic,  and  niny 
interest  your  readers:  ; 

•  'Leave  what  to  do*,  and  what  to  spare, 
Tothe  Inspiring  moment's  care — 

Nor  look  for  payment— 
But  Just,  to  wear 
Unspotted  raiment. ' ' 

■  —Ja«ictfJtus**t{  l.ou-fti. 


LOWELL,  THE  MAM  OF  .LETTERS. 

%\erAav\ X»q.»..«4:i«fV/" 

Now  that  the  day  of  death  has  come,  and  the 
Poet  of  Elmwood  is  at  rest  after  long  and  griev- 
ous illness,  thereto  surprise  mingled  with  the 
sorrow  of  all  the  thousands  who  mourn  him. 
Mortality  is  forever  incredible  to  the  living,  and 
it  is  difficult  to  believe  that  the  voice  that  spoke 
and  the  pen  that  wrote  always  in  the  service  of 
truth  are  stilled.  The  chief  actions  and  dates 
of  the  life  of  the  dead  citizen  and  poet,  the 
story  of  his  life  in  its  general  form,— these  aro 
given  elsewhere. 
From  the  days  when  James  Russell  Lowell 
"Tasting  the  raptured  fleetness 
Of  her  divine  completeness," 
gave  to  the  world  his  first  poems,  poems  stren- 
uous with  youth's  ardor  for  Truth  on  to  the  day 
whenhia  last  verses  were  written,  there  has 
been  on  his  part  no  very  longpcriod  of  complete 
sileuce.  His  ha*  been  mainly  a  sustained 
strength  in  spite  of  deep  .sorrows  and  the  pecu- 
liar trials  that  afflict  an  ardent  poet's  tempera- 
ment forever  in  process  of  blending  with  a 
f.ncly  restrained  and  high  conservatism.  It 
has  been  a  strength  like  a  tower  to  those  who 
knew  their  Lowell  deeper  than  the  mere  shift- 
iug  conditions  of  daily  acquaintance  or  politi- 
c.-J  opinion.  Lowell  was  first  and  last  a  poet,  a 
seer. 

"What  know  we  of  the  world  immense 
Beyond  the  narrow  ring  of  sense?" 

he  asked  in  the  last  long  poem  that  ho  has  left 
us,  "How  I  Consulted  the  Oracle  of  the  Gold- 
fishes," and  he  gives  theto  testimony  he  has 
gone  to  prove:  t 

"It  lies  about  ns  yet  as  far 
From  sense  sequestered  as  a  star  • 
New  launched,  its  wake  of  fire  to  trace 
In  secrecies  of  nnprohed  space, 


30 

»  nose  beacon's  hgutaing-pinioned  spears 
Might  earthward  haste  a  thousand  yean 
Nor  reach  it.    So  remote  seems  thin 
World  undiscovered,  yet  It  is 
A  neighbor  near  and  dumb  as  death. 
So  near  we  teem  to  feel  the  breath 
Of  its  hushed  habitants  as  they 
Pass  us  unchallenged,  night  and  day. 

"Never  could  mortal  ear  nor  eye 

By  sound  or  sign  suspect  them  nigh. 
Yet  why  may  not  some  subtle  sense 
Than  those  poor  two  give  evidence  i'" 

The   poem   is   more  answer  than  question, 
although  it  keeps  the  attitude  of  question,  dis- 
covering a  serenity   of  confidence   in  -the  un- 
known and  the  unseen.     Tbe  closing  words  in 
the  poem  to  the  goldfishes  are  deeply  signifi- 
cant now: 

"The  things  ye  see  as  shadows  I 
Know  to  be  substance :  tell  me  why 
My  visions,  like  those  haunting  you, 
May  not  be  as  substantial  too'? 

•         •  •         •         •         •         • 

"Yet  I  shall  fancy  to  my  grave 

Your  lives  to  mine  a  lesson  gave; 

If  lesson  none  an  image,  then. 

Impeaching  self-conceit  in  men 

Who  put  their  confidence  alone 

In  what  they  call  the  Seen  and  Known. 

How  seen?  How  known?  As  through  your  glass 

Our  wavering  apparitions  pass 

Perplexingly,  then  subtly  wrought 

To  some  qui  to  other  thing  than  thought. 

Here  shall  my  resolution  De: 

Tbe  shadow  of  the  mystery 

Is  haply  wholesomer  for  eyes 

That  cheat  us  to  be  overwise. 

And  I  am  happy  in  my  right 

To  love  God's  darkness  as  his  light." 

Since  the  publication  of  these  words  in  the 
Atlantic  Monthly  for  August,  1889,  but  two 
poems  by  Mr.  Lowell  have  appeared— one  was 
the  sonnet  (in  July,  1890.)  ''In  a  Volume  of  Sir 
Thomas  Browne,"  closing  with  the  words: 

"All  potent  phantasy,  the  spell  Is  thine ; 
Thou  lay'st  thy  careless  finger  on  a  word. 
And  there,  forever,  shall  thy  influence  shine. 
The  witchery  of  thv  rhythmio  pulse  be  heard: 
Yea.  where  thy  foot  hath  left  its  prassure  tine. 
Though  but  in  passing  haunts  the  Attic  bird." 

Quite  the  last  poem  published  was  in  the  At- 
lantic Monthly  of  last  September: 

INSCRIPTION      70B     A      MEMORIAL      BtTST      OK 
XTELDINO. 

He  looke%  on  naked  Nature  unabashed, 

And  saw  the  Sphinx,  now  bestial,  now  divine, 
In  oh  ange  and  reohange :  he  nor  saw.  nor  blamed, 

But  drow  her  as  he  saw  with  fearless  line. 
Did  be  good  service?    God  must  judge,  not  we; 

Manly  be  was,  and  generous  and  sincere; 
English  In  all,  of  genius  blithely  free : 

Who  loves  a  Man  may  see  his  image  here. 

But  since  this  purely  literary  fragment,  there 
came  in  the  Contributor's  Club  of  the  Atlantic 
last  December  a  chapter  of  prose  in  Mr.  Lowell's 
sweetest  tone  and  sunniest  mood.  It  begins 
with  some  talk  of  the  trials  that  proof-readers 
Inflict  upon  long-enduring  authors,  and  upon 
the  severer  trials  of  a  cultivated  proof-reader 
himself,  and  so  going  on  to  the  Important  topic 
Sf  Americauisnft*of  spelling  and  of  phrase,  ex- 
plaining their  dignity  with  tho  true  Lowell 
charm,  all  the  more  winning  for  the  way  hi  i 
speaks  of  himself  as  "Mr.  X."  Articles  in  tb  I 
Contributor's  Club  are  unsigned,  but  the  nan-  y 
of  this  "Mr.  X."  Is  written  ineftacebly  into  tri 
style  that 's  the  man  In  this  essay,  dour,  y 
precious  now  that  we  know  it  is  his  last.  It  \ 
entitled  "Thou  Spell,  A  vaunt":  \ 

-  I  was  once  honored  by  tbe  friendship  ot  a  msv. 
of  explosive  prejudices.    He  was  a  proof-readei1" 
and  worthy  to  be  coupled  with  Alexander  the. 
Corrector.     Amenity  itself  in  the  commerce  of  i 
private  life,  in  his  office  he  was  immitigable. 
His  honesty  was  aggTessive;  his  frankness  had 
the  inhuman   innocency  of   childhood.     Like 
some  other  zealous  magistrates,  he  made  incur- 
sions beyond  the  legitimate  boundary  of   his 
province.     No  misquotation  but  he  set  it  in  tho 
pillory;   no  mixed  metaphor  but  he  pursued  it 
through  all  its  windings  like  a  ferret.    He  was  s 
killing  frost  to  every  over-venturesome  flowe 
of  speech ;  none  such  could    take  h is  winds  c 
March  with  its  beauty;  a  faulty  cons  true  tic 
quailed  before  him  like  a  prevaricating  witne.- 
before  Jeffries,  and  every  solecism  found  in  hi' 
a  Torquemada,    His  were,  indeed,    bloody  &■ 
sizes,  and  on  the  marvin   of  a  proof  sheet  lie  \ 
red  pencil  left  a  calamitously  sanguine  trail  be- 


hind it.  He  woum  nave  aeatt  as  unmercuuuv 
with  his  own  epitaph,  could  he  have  had  t. 
chance,  and  I  trust  there  is  no  misplaced  comm'L 
"therein  to  disturb  bis  well-earned  rest.  BuU- 
above  all,  bis  bile  was  blackened  by  any  In- 
decency in  spelling.  , 

lhad  occasion  to  visit  this  Rhadamanthus 
one  day,  where  he  sat  in  chambers  at  the  print- 
ing house.  Ordinarily  his  good-mornings  were 
ceremonious,  and  one  approached  business  by 
a  gentle  slope  through  health  and  weather; 
but  now  he  turned  upon  me  with  a  glare  in  his 
spectacles  as  of  personal  wrong,  and  without 
preliminary  greeting  blared  forth:  "Mr.  X, 
when  I  come  down  to  my  office  in  the  morning, 
it  is  my  habit  to  begin  the  duties  of  the  day  by 
reading  a  chapter  of  the  New  Testament. 
But  If  by  any  chance  it  should  happen 
that  I  found  the  words  of  my  Blessed 
Redeemer  printed  in  the  Websterian  cacogra- 
phy,  I'd  hurl  them  behind  the  backlog!"  All 
this  in  a  single  jet.  and  with  an  absence  of 
punctuation  that  would  never  have  escaped 
him  in  a  proof-sheet.  Recovering  himself  with 
a  courteous  apology  for  his  abruptness,  he  ex- 
plained that  he  bad  been  correcting  a  manu- 
script pollutod  with  those  heresies  of  spelling. 
I  confess  that  I  .-.hare  these  orthodox  antipa- 
thies and  ri  "mtmtnti;  that  I,  too.  glow  with 
these  sacred  beats.  Aro  they  tbo  less  grateful 
that  they  are  unreasonable?  They  are 
peremptory  as  instinct*,  and  .  will  not  be  de- 
nied. 

ion  will  say,  perhaps,  that'the  meaning  is 
the  main  thing,  and  provided  that  be  clear  the 
spelling  may  gpuhang.  But  stay:  since  we  have 
but  twenty-snvfetters  to  spend  upon  our  litera- 
ture, since  Shaksoeare  had  no  more  for  his  ah- 
pott  nt  incantations,  should  there  not  be 
method  and  frusultty  In  the  administer- 
ing of  so  small  a  patrimony?  Not  that 
a  seoinly  superfluity  should  not  be  in- 
dulged on  oocasion.  Does  not  "honour 
loso  something  of  its  state  and  "flavour" 
of  in  benevolence  "when  the  u  in  each  has  been 
economized?  A  cynic  will  scowl  at  this,  as  a 
trifling  ceremonial,  but  such  niceties  are  the 
thin  partitions  that  divide  us  from  barbarism. 
Nay,  the  mere  misplacing  of  a  letter  or  an  ac- 
cent may  vulgarize  a  fine  sentiment  or  make  a 
harniles?ly  erroneous  statement  offensive.  If 
a  man  write  mat  he  was  standing  in  the  centre 
of  the  street  when  he  means  tho  middle,  does 
not  his  crime  call  for  sterner  discipline 
if  he  call  his  impossible  whereabouts  the 
"centre"?  ...       , 

I  suppose  that  I  prefer  the  old-fashioned, 
6witch-tailed  "cheque"  to  the  docked  form  my 
countrymen  have  adopted.  To  me  this  has  the 
air  of  a  disrespectful  nickname  for  that  6pecies 
of  literature  which  has  the  supreme  art  of  con- 
veying the  most  pleasure  in  the  least  space. 
Not  that  l  am  fanatical,  for  the  editor  would 
not  find  me  implacable  who  should  write  to  me 
that  he  "enclosed  his  check,"  for  double  the 
amount  I  e*  pected.  Yet  there  are  outrages  in  the 
like  kind  s\  bich  it  would  be  pusillanimous  toen- 
dure  meekly.  Such  is  the  Revised  Version  of  the 
Scriptures,  for  example.  It  may  be  more  true  to 
the  letter  that  killeth,  but  does  It  not  prosai- 
cally evaporate  that  aroma  of  association  at 
onco  the  subtlest  and  the  most  potent  gramarve 
of  Imagination?  Does  it  not  make  the 
Almighty  speak  like  a  spruce  writer  of 
leader'?  To  drop  figures  of  speech  for  those 
of  arithmetic,  I  believe  that  the  American 
vocabularies  contain  more  words  than  the 
British;  hut  in  spite  of  this  victory  of  superim? 
numbers,  it  is  becoming  in  us  to  be  merciful, 
and  to  admit  that  tbe  English  have  some  rights, 
in  their  mother  tongue  which  an  American  is 
bonnd  to  respect  When  our  cousins  are  In 
good  humor,  they  talk  of  our  common  lan- 
guage :  when  they  are  not,  theytar  us  with  an. 
ycommon  language  and  spice  their  abhorrence 
ui  it  with  modes  of  speech  in  .which  I  am  Quite 
willing  to  renounce  any  share  whatever.  1  was/ 
put  upon  these  reflections  by  seeing  in  Notes 
and  Queries  the  cony  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  W. 
E.  Norris  to  tbe  editor  of  the  London  Times, 
protesting  against  any  complicity  in  the  spell- 
ing used  in  a  book  of  his  printed  in  England 
from  plates  made  in  America. 

Mr.  W.  E.  Norris  is  the  author  of  several  en- 
tertaining novels,  written  in  a  very  comforta- 
ble English,  as  times  go.  He  tells  us  that  ha 
wrote  his  letter  "with  tears  running  down  his 
pen."  and  it  wonld  be  easy  to  turn  the  tables 
upon  him  by  hinting  that  a  careful  analysis 
could  detect  no  salt  in  the  water  which  be 
mixes  with  his  ink.  But  this  were  a  cheap  ad- 
vantage to  take,  especially  in  the  case  of  one  to 
whom  I  am  a  debtor  for  much  wholesome  and 
Innocent  entertainment.  Besides,  it  is  not  with 
Mr.  Norris  that  I  have  a  cn«w  to  pluck, 
and  I  have  said  enough  to  show  that  I 
entirely  sympathize  with  his  feeling 
of  the  indignity  that  has  been  put 
upon  him.  No;  what  I  protest  against 
is  that  his  letter  should  be  printed  under  the 
heading  of  "Americanisms"- -a  beading  under 


whicb  certain  contributors  to  Notes  and  Queries 
seem  eager  to  show  how  easy  it  is- to  trip  over 
ignorance  Into  ill  manners.  They  write  about 
the  English  andlAmerican  languages  without 
knowing  tbe  rudiments  of  either.  To  drop  the 
u  out  of  "honour"  or  to  write  "plow  for 
"plough"  may  be  archaisms,  if  you  will,  but 
they  are  not  Americanisms.  Formerly,  all 
English  words  derived  front  French  originals 
ending  in  ew  changed  it  to  our:  and  properly 
enough,  since  the  accent  fell  on  the  last 
syllable,  as  may  be  seen  rn  Chancer. 
•  *  vDo  Englishmen  never  read  their 
older  literature  in  the  -original  editions,  as 
Charles  Lamb  loved  to  do?  Such  spellings  am 
not  Americanisms,  but  survivals.  True  Ameri- 
canisms aie  self-cocking  phrases  or  words  that 
are  wholly  of  onr  own  make,  and  do  (Ji*r 
work  shortly  aud  sharply  at  a  pinch.  Of  the 
former  we  have  Invented  many  so  bewitching 
for  their  qnaintness  or  brevity,  their  humor  or 
their  fancy,  that  our  English  cousins  have  not 
been  squeamish  in  corroborating  the  urbanely 
languid  ranks  of  their  diction  with  these  back- 
woods recruits.  Of  the  latter  we  have 
coined  too  many  that  are  refused  ad- 
mission *  to  the  higher  society  of  the  vo- 
cabulary because  they  are  unidiomatio  or  vul- 
gar, or  both.  Of  acceptable  and  sure-to-be 
accepted  words  I  cite  "shadow"  and  "stage"  us 
active  verbs,  both  in  unassailable  analogy  with 
"coach."  "floor,"  "ship,"  and  10  many  others. 
"To  voice,"  which  is  laid  at  onr  door,  is  an  in- 
heritance, 'and  though  I  cannot  now  lay  my 
hand  on  the  reference  that  would  prove  it.  I 
feel  sure  that  "to  shadow"  will  yet  prove  its 
Elizabethan  origin,  as  its  features  seem  to  war- 
rant. These  and  their  like  spare  us  camber-. 
some  periphrases,  and  are  sure  of  adoption  be-  '■ 
cause  they  chime  in  with  that  instinct  for  short 
cuts  which  connotes  Englishas  the  langungo 
that,  beyond  all  others,  means  business  and  tho 
hurry  implied  in  it. 

I  believe  that  one  of  the  spellings  that  were 
too  much  for  Mr.  Norris's  sonslbiltties  was 
"center."  I  do  not  wonder.  But  this  again  is 
no  Americanism.  It  entered  the  language  in 
that  shape,  and  kept  it  at  least  so  lata  as  De- 
foe.   •    •-  k 

The  best  English  commerces  alike  with  the 
shelf  and  the  street.  Formal  logic  can  never 
be  applied  to  language,  whioh  has  a  logic  vf  its 
own  of  more  than  feminine  nimbloness,  and 
verbal  critics  should  learn  their  own  tongue  bo- 
fore  they  meddle  with  others.  As  for  idioms,  I 
should  advise  such  critics  to  ponder  deeply 
what  the  Rov.  E.  Young  in  hisPr*-Raffaellitisni 
says  of  definitions:  "It  may  bo  almost  said  of 
them  as  Confucius  said  of  the  gods:  'Respect 
them;  take  care  not  to  offend  them:  have  as 
little  to  do  with  thorn  as  possible  And  on 
our  side  we  should  remember  that  we  have 
evory  right  in  the  language  we  have  Inherited 
which  our  elders  and  betters  had,  that  wo  may 
enlarge,  enrich  and  modify.;  but  may  not  de- 
face It." 

It  Is  only  last  year  that  Mr.  Lowell  edited  the 
Riverside  edition  of  his  works,  now  complete  in 
ten  volumes.  Six  of  these  aro  prose,  four 
poetry.  The  first  four  in  prose  are  "Literary 
Essays"  and  include  all  the  essays  that  in  ear- 
lier editions  appear  under  the  various  titles, 
"Fireside  Travels,"  "Among  My  Rooks"  and 
"My  Study  Windows," 

In  the  prefatory  note  written  last  year  at 
Elmwood,  Mr.  Lowell  expresses  a  certain 
regret  for  not  having  put  into  form  the  verbal 
illustrations  that  went  with  most  of  these 
chapters  when  they  were  first  given  at 
harvard  to  his  classes  and  '  to  other 
members  of  the  university.  He  says,  too,  that 
because  they  were  written  lot  the  ear  rather 
than  the  reason,  they  have  a  rhetorical  tone- 
Few  of  his  readers  would  be  willing  to  forego 
that  personal  tone,  although  many  will  feel 
far  more  regret  than  he  that  wo  must .  forever 
miss  much  of  the  illustration  referred  to  in  this 
paragraph  of  the  prefatory  note: 

Though  capable  of  whatever  drudgory  in  ac- 
quisition-, 1  am  by  temperament  impatient  of 
detail  In  communicating  what  1  have  acquired, 
and  too  often  pat  into  a  parenthesis  as  a  note 
conclusions  arrived  at  by  long  study  and  reflec- 
tion when,  perhapt.it  had  been  wiser  to  expand 
them,  not  to  mention  that  much  of  my  illustra- 
tion was  extemporaneous  and  is  now  lost  to  me. 

Mr.  Lowell  says  of  his  earlier  work  in  this  re- 
vised edition : 

I  have  refrained  from  modifying  what,  was 
written  by  one— I  know  not  whethot  to  say  so 
much  older  or  so  much  youngor  than  I— but  at 
any  rate  different  in  more  important  respects, 
and  this  partly  from  deference  to  him,  partly 
from  distrust  of  myself. 


31 

-The  firth  aud'sixth  prose  volumes  are  "Pollti- 
cal  Essays,"  the  fifth  opening  with  "The  Amer- 
ican Tract  Society,"  the  sixth  with  the  superb 
address  "Dcmocraow,,^md< Including  the  nokle 
"Harvard  Anniversary"  with  its  warnings  "from 
tho  reefs  and  shallows  of  popular  doctrine." 

A  work,  long  hoped  for  by  the  reading 
public,  long  Intended  by  the  life-long  friend  of 
our  great  romancist  was  a  "Life  of  Nathaniel 
Hawthorne."  by  James  Russell  LowelL  Writing 
it  was  to  have  been  the  pleasant  occupation  of 
these  later  years  that  have  been  so  much 
clouded  by  suffering.  Only  in  imagination  now 
can  we  have  even  an  Idea  of  the  joy  such  a  book 
would  have  been.  It  is  an  irremediable  priva- 
tion that  oar  literature  sustains  In  this  hope 
unfulfilled  f 

"  Its  grief  for  us  will  always  lie  across  the  bright 
memories  of  the  associated  lives  of  these  two 
friends.  So  much  We  should  have  found  of 
revealment  and  inspiration  and  delight  In  this 
book  that  might  have  been. 

To  torn  from  his  work— and  what  a  rich  and 
abundant  and  enduring  work  It  Is!— to  the  per- 
sonality of  Mr.  Lowoll,  this  opens  the  door 
to  rich  associations  that  are  already 
sacred  memories.  In  his  home  be  was 
a  devoted  husband,  father,  friend,  host, 
and  the  elms  that  were  his  "lifelong  loafy 
friends,"  welcomed  him  back  from  the 
absences  in  foreign  lands  which  wero  after  all 
very  short  seasons  in  the  life  of  more  than 
three  score  and  ten  years'  that  Elmwood  was 
his  home.  The  intense  happiness  of  his  first 
Italian  days  long  ago,  with  his  young  wife,  the 
scholarly  and  satisfying  stay  at  Madrid,  the  dig- 
nified and  gracious  years  that  he  represented  his 
country  at  the  court  of  St.  James  and  subsequent 
visits  in  England,  all  these  counted  up  but  a 
fraction  of  a  long  life  In  the  home  of  his  birth. 
The  sonnet  headed  with  an  Italian  quotation., 
referring  to  something  he  had  once  said  and 
had  been  criticised  for<he  had  spoken  of  Amer- 
ica as  "the  land  of  broken  promises")  shows  the 
Intensity  and  tenacity  of  his  patriotism  in  his 
later  days: 

If  I  let  fall  a- word  of  bitter  mirth. 
When  publio  shames  more   shameful  pardon 

won. 
Some  have  misjndged  me.  and  my  service  done, 
If  small,  yet  faithful,  deemed  of  little  worth: 
Through  veins  that  drew  their  life  from  West- 
ern earth 
Two  hundred  years  and  more  my  blood  hath 

ran 
In  no  polluted  course  from  sire  to  son, 
And  thus  was  I  predestined  ere  my  birth 
To  love  the  soil  wherewith  my  fibres  own 
Instinctive  sympathies :  yet  love  it  so 
As  honor  would,  nor  lightly  to  dethrone 
Judgment,  the  stamp  of  manhood  nor  forego 
The  son's  right  to  a  mother  dearer  grown 
With  growing  knowledge  and  mora  chaste  than 
snow. 

The  splendor  of  the  Commemoration  Ode  pre- 
cluded Mr.  Lowell  from  much  later  writing  of 
patriotic  poetry;  but  the  height  and  fervor  of 
his  patriotism  need  no  apology  from  those  who 
understand  the  dignity  and  firmness  with 
which  he  held  the  bonds  of  friendship  between 
oar  country  and  the  mother  isle  at  a  time  of 
extraordinary  difficutly,  when  in  hands  less 
skilful  they  woald  certainly  have  been  strained 
and  only  the  gods  know  whether  or  not  they 
would  have  been  snapped. 

The  story  Is  ended,  the  last  poem  is  written, 
the  last  strong  word  for  fineness  and  right  and 
truth  is  spoken  and  the  grave  of  James  Russell 
Lowell  will  presently  be  another  place  for  pil- 
grimage from  far  states  and  lands  to  Mount 
Auburn.  There  the  nearest  whom  he  has  left 
behind  will  follow  him  to  the  place  beside  the 
graves  of  those  who  have  gone : 

'X  were  indiscreet 
To  vex  the  shy  and  sacred  grief 
With  harsh  obtrusions  of  relief 

"iet.  Verse,  with  noiseless  feet, 
Go  whisper:    "This  death  hath  far  choicer  ends 
Than  slowly  to  impearl  in  hearts  of  friends; 

Tnese  obsequies  '  t  is  meet 
Not  to  seclude  in  closets  of  the  heart 
But.  cburch-llke,  with  wide  door-ways  to  ini- 
part 

Even  to  the  heedless  street." 


Dr.  Hale  on  Lowell. 

Edward  Everett  Hale  writes  in  tbe 
Boston  Commonwealth,  published  today, 
tho  following  tribute  to  the  memory  ©f 
Mr.  Lowell: 

The  death  of  Mr.  Lowell  will  be  heard 
with  sadness  among  all  people  who 
use  the  language  which  he  used  so 
well.  It  wili  be  heard  with  sadness, 
also,  among  the  leaders  of  Spain,  where 
his  lifo  was  so  honorable  to  himself,  and 
where  he  renewed  tne  warm  relations 
which  have  united  Spain  and  the  United 
Stales.  He  was  gi  f tea  with  that  greatest 
of  gifts,  the  art  of  making  friends ;  and 
in  every  circie  which  has  known  him 
there  are  pathetic  remembrances  of  the 
friendships  which  he  had  formed  and 
.steadiness  with  which  he  maintained 
them. 

It  is  one  of  the  finest  Illustrations  of 
the  readiness  with  which  America  sub- 
mits her  diplomatic  business  to  men  of 
conscience  and  character,  without  ask- 
ing from  them  what  isealledadiplomatio 
education,  that  Mr.  LowelL  In  the  mis- 
sions to  Spain  and  to  England,  dis- 
charged so  admirably  the  duties  which 
wt-re  entrusted  to  him.  If  anybody  sup- 
poses that  here  was  a  mere  man  of  let- 
ters, ignorant  of  the  ways  ot  action  of 
men  of  affairs,  Mr.  Lowell's  despatches 
undeceived  them.  He. was  appointed,  as 
i  suppose,  to  r.ngiand.  simply  because 
he  was.  the  most  capable  diplomatist 
whom  we  hai  abroad. 

He  felt  the  personal  losses  which  are 
the  severest  penalty  of  advancing  life. 
ihe  la-t  time  I  met  him.  1  congratulated 
him  that  he  was  at  Elmwood,  and  he 
said,  with  his  tender  smile,  "Yes.  it  is 
good  to  be  there,  but  the  house  is  fnll  of 
jihosts."  And  so  indeed  it  was.  Bathe 
could  not  he  morose:  ho  would  not 
oppress  hi3  friends  with  the  story  of  any 
ol  his  own  regrets;  and  tho  last  and' 
earliest  memories  which  we  have  of  him 
are  of  his  cordiality,  affection,  and  tender 
sympathy. 


472.  Who  was  It  that  wrote  tho  line, 
To  win  the  secret  of  a  weed's  plain  heart? 

Alice. 

Ans.  James  Russell  Lowell.  The  line 
will  be  found  Jn  Sonnet  XXV.,  which  Is 
so  characteristic,  of  the  poet  that  we  quite 
it  in  full: 

I   griove    not  that  ripe  Knowledge  takes 

away 
The  charm  that  Nature  to  my  childhood 

wore. 
For,  with  that  insicrht  cometh,  day  by  day, 
A  greater  bliss  than  wonder  was  bcloro. 
The  real  dotn  not  clip  the  port's  wiujis,— 
To  win  the  secret  of  a  wc-d's  plain  hoart 
Reveals  some  elew  to  spiritual  things. 
And  stumbling  guess  becomes  firm- footed 

art: 
Flowers  are  not  flowers  unto  tbe  poet's  eves, 
Their    beauty  thrills   him   by    an  inward 

boiiso; 
He  knows  that  outward  Roomings  are  but 

lies, 
Or,   at    th«    most,    but    earthly   shadows, 

whence  j 

The  soul  that  looks  « ithin  for  truth  mar 

_.     gui  as  ■* 

ThAu>rw«ngo  pt  ^-uojrond/OWi  *»avepiy 


Mrt.   ioivEU'8  rr/icB  i>  uttra. 

TUBE. 

It  is  not  easy  and  perhaps  it  Is  not  deeorous 
or  fit  to  attempt  to  determine  the  permanent 
place  In  literature,  of  a  great  writer  who  hs  s 
but  just  Joined  the  silent  majority.  The  sense 
of  loss  is  keen;  recollection  of  a  winning 
personality  blends  with  appreciation  of  liter- 
ary excellence,  and  tbe  impressive  figure  is 
still  too  near  to  be  seen  in  a  proper  perspec- 
tive.   But  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Lowell  he  waa 


so  versatile,  hi*  writings  were  so  varied  and 
he  achieved  lame  In  so  many  different  fields 
of  literary  effort  that  it  is  natural  to  con- 
jecture as  to  which  of  his  writings  will  =ut- 
vive  the  longest  Will  it  be  as  critic,  as 
satirist  or  as  poet  that  ultimately 
he  will  be  remembered?  His  writ- 
ings in  the  department  of  criticism 
constitute  the  greater  part  of  his  prose. 
They  are  rich  in  scholarship,  keen  and  dis- 
criminating, delightful  in  style,  and  exhibit 
Mr.  Lowell's  qualities,  with  the  single  excep- 
tion of  imagination,  in  their  freshest  and 
most  virile  expression.  But  criticism,  how- 
ever brilliant  and  Just,  rarely  becomes  litera- 
ture, and  it  may  easily  happen  that  thirty  or 
fifty  years  from  now  Mr.  Lowell's  critical 
essays,  while  they  will  not  have  been  forgot- 
ten, will  be  read  as  little  as  are  those  of  Haz- 
litt  at  the  present  time. 

It  Is  probably  by  the  Bigiow  Pap^r*  tbat 
Mr.  Lowell  Is  most  widely  known  among 
readers  to-day.  Satire  has  rarely  been 
used  with  as  telling  effect  In  modern 
verse  as  in  those  remarkable  produc- 
tions, which,  seizing  upon  the  Yankee 
dialect  with  an  absolute  mastery  of 
its  possibilities,  voiced  at  once  the  New 
England  conscience  and  humor  in  their  rela- 
tion to  great  crises  In  the  national  history. 
But  it  is  safe  to  say  that  the  Biglow  Papers 
were  more  read  twenty  years  ago  than  dow, 
;>i>.1  safe  to  predict  that  they  will  be  less  read 
twenty  years  hence  than  to-day;  and  this 
simply  because  for  the  full  appreeiation  of 
their  allusions  one  must  have  lived  either  in 
the  times  about  which  they  were  written  or 
not  long  after  them.  The  more  remote  be- 
come the  issues  which  were  caught  up  in 
these  rigorous  and  telling  lines  the  less  defi- 
nite the  iu\\  re-sion  made  by  the  lines  them- 
selves. 

It  is  in  our  judgment  as  a  poet,  and  by  two 
or  three  poems  In  particular,  that  Mr.  Lowell 
will  take  his  highest  rank  in  the  estimation 
of  posterity.  There  are  not  a  few  who  wuld 
accord  him  the  foremost  place  In  the  list  of 
American  poets,  and  the  most  conservative 
must  admit  that  the  first  three  or  four  names 
among  American  poets  cannot  be  mentioned 
without  including  Mr.  Lowell's  among  them. 
No  poet  of  his  generation,  on  either  side  of 
the  sea,  has  given  us  a  more  memorable  pro- 
duction of  Its  kind  than  Mr.  Lowell's  Com- 
memoration Ode.  He  had  a  noble  theme  and 
!>c  treated  it  nobly.  That  poem  is  the  finest 
i.ru  strongest  utterance  of  American  verso  to 
tfn  present  time.  And  where  shsll  we  find 
anything  more  delicate  in  its  beauty  of  form 
and  thought,  or  finer  in  its  spiritual  srjfgest- 
iveness,  than  "  The  Vision  of  Sir  Launfal?  " 
If  Mr  Lowell  had  written  nothing  but 
these,  his  place  in  literature  would  have 
l>ecn  secure,  and  it  is  these,  wa  think, 
hat  will  be  longest  remembered  among  bis 
writings. 


32 

this  was  not  before  he  had  written  and  pub- 
lished poems  the  sweetness  and  tenderness 
of  which  are  still  remembered.     There  is.  In- 
deed, a  touching  aaecdote,  perfectly  nu*hen- 
tlcated,    of    the    half     plaintive     way    In 
which  dear  Dr.  lowell,  his  revered  father, 
seld  to  a  friend  that  James  had  promised 
bun  that  he  would  give  up  writing  poetry 
nr:      v-ould  take  to  study.     There  is  hardlv 
a  father  In  the  world  who  would  not  feel 
gratified  if  his  sen  at  the  university  made 
such  a  promise.    But  ;is  one  recalls  the  story 
now,  it   is    simply  to   be    thankful  that  Dr. 
Lowell  misapprehended  tho  precision  of  the 
promise,  or  that  the  poet  found  It  impossi- 
ble for  him  to  make  good  bis  words.    The 
instinct  of  the  poet  was  in  him,  and  It  woa 
not  to  be  trampled  out  by  any  firm  resolution 
of  the  student. 

Tho  University  did  not,  Indeed,  show  its 
foresight  in  its  handling  of  one  who<  fl 
vears  after,  it  was  proud  to  maie"  Us  orator. 
The  tradition  wa$ that  the  Goverimenc  ^-1S 
very  unwilling  to  jroceed  to  tie  harshest 
measures,  but,  at  the  very  last,  on  the  central 
point  of  pressing  his  if  tendance  it  chapel— 
where  ho  almost  alvays  found  himself  too 
late  for  entrance — he  Tas  suspended  from  tho 
college,  and  was  not  able  himself  to 
read  the  poem  vhich  he  had  pre- 
pared for  Class  Day  'Well-authenticated 
tradition  says  that  he  witnessed  tha 
ceremony  of  the  dame  around  the  tree- 
through  the  chinks  of  a  covered  WBgon  in 
which  he  had  ridden  from  Concord,  which: 
wa=  his  place  of  exili.  ±£is  loyalty  to  his 
Alma  Mater,  howrrer,  afterward  showed; 
that  he  took  no  offence  for  any  harshnoss  o 
her  treatment.  Ant"  as  professor,  and  a* 
orator  on  the  great  day  of  her  quarter-mii  • 
ninm,  he  repaid  to  Ver.  a  hundred-fold  all 
that  he  had  received  from  her.  And  in  all 
that  he  has  done  for  literature  and  education 
in  America,  he  has  shoVn  himself  not  un- 
worthy of  her  best  tradition}.    *    *    *         . 

He  'felt  the  personal  Jpstes  vhlch  are  t no 
severest  penalty  of  advan'ciig  lite.  The  lajt 
tirro  I  met  him  I  conjrariiated  him  that  ho 
•was  at  Elmwood,  and  he  aid,  with  his  ten- 
Aor  smile,  "Yes,  it  is  gooi  to  bo  there,  but 
the  house  is  full  of  ghosts.",  Aud  so  indeed 
it  was  But  he  could  not  be  morose;  be 
would  not  oppress  his  frienis  with  the  story 
of  any  of  his  own  regret*;  »nd  the  last  and 
earliest  memories  which  w«  ha\  <-  of  him  ars 
o'  his  cordiality,  affection  a  d  teuder  sympa- 
thy. Et>'  >'akp  E.  Hale.    . 


THE  QUEEN'S  SYMPATHY; 


Queen  Victoria  Sends  a  Message 
of  Condolence. 


Many  Oilier  Tributes  to  the  Mem- 
ory of  Mr.  Lowell. 


DR.     HALE     ON     LOWELL'S     COLLEGE 
DAYS. 

CTrom  tha  Catemtowealtfr  today.] 
The  yourfg  men 'who  -were  around  Mr. 
Lowelt  in  his  college  days'* knew,  fifty  years 
ago,  that  he  was  to  be  one  of  the  greatest 
poets  of  the  time,  as  well  as  they  know  now 
that  he  has  achieved  that  promise.  Tho 
members  of  his  own  class  with  perfect  unan- 
imity appointed  him  their   class  poet,  and 


Funeral  Arrangements  and  Words 
from  Eminent  Men. 


The  IclU  vring  message  from  Lord  Salisbury 
t:is  received  at  the  Biato  Department  In  Wash- 
ington Thursday,  and  was  forwarded  t?  <  am- 
biidge  by  Acting  Secretary  Wharton : 


I'he  Qneen  desires  to  express  her  sorrow  and 
regret  at  the  news  which  has  just  reached  this 
country  of  Mr.  Lowell's  death.      BAUSBUnv." 

Acini?  Secretary  Wharton  said  la  reply  to  Si* 
Julian's  telegram,  as  follows;   "Too  Presides, 
ne  to  Acknowledge  tho  reoelotXhrouali' 
the  telegram  from  the  Margsle  of  Rails- 
eon  v<-ylng  the  Queen's  condolence  on  the 
death   of  Mr.  Lowell,  and  to  convey  an  expres- 
(    ino    President's  appreciation   of    Her 
Majesty's  symoathello  message." 

Tho  death  of  Mr.  Lowell  brines  ward*  of  con- 
dolence and  of  tribute  to  his  memory  from  all 
lands  and  the  most  eminent  people. 

Mr.  Waiter  Besaot,  the  well-known  writer  and 
nr.rcltst  and  first  Chairman  of  the  Execu- 
tive Committee  of  the  Incorporated  Society  of 
Authors,  has  sent  a  telegram  from  Dartmoor  to 

a  news  agency  in  London,  In  which,  referring 
to  tho  death  of  Mr.  James  Russell  Lowell,  he 
says:  "The  English  Authors'  Society  sends  Its 
deepest  regrets  and  sympathy  with  Americana 
on  it ie  death  of  that  great  writer,  its  friend 
James  R       <U  Lowell." 

Bret  Harte  has  written  concerning  the  death 
of  James  Russell  Lowell:  "To  my  pride,  a*  an 
American.  In  the  frank  admiration  and  living 
appreciation  shown  of  Lowell's  Intellect  and 
character  personally  hers  I  have  to  add  ay 
own  expression  of  sorrow  at  the  loss  of  cos  of 
the  most  fastidious  and  cultivated  professors  In 
my  calling,  ana  one  of  its  gentlest  rot  manliest 
critics." 

John  O.  Whlttler  said,  when  informs*  of  Mr. 
Lowell's    death:       "I    knew     Lowell     when 
he     was     a   young    man     lust    est   of    col-! 
lege    and     reading    law.     He     was    a    won- '. 
derful     fellow     tnen,     brilliant     asM     witty.  ' 
We    expected  greater   things     from     Lowell 
thar  '--m    any  of  the  rest  of  us,  and  I  think 
be    did     some     things     that     wars     better. ' 
His     poetry     was     rery     superior,      perhaps 
hettertnan  his  prose.  If  any  comparison  could 
be  made      His  'Bicrlow  Papers'  was  a  great 
work.    Tt  did  much  for  the  abolition  cause;  per- 
haps did  as  much  to  free  the  slave  almost  as 
Grant's  guns     It  aroused  the  whole  country." 

Mr.  Ho  wells  said:  "Mr.  Lowell  was 
too  near  and  too  dear  to  me  to  say  any- 
thing upon  the  subject  at  present  He  was  one 
of  my  earliest  and  one  of  my  best  friends 
He  was  the  editor  of  the  Atlantic  when  I 
began  to  write,  and  he  encouraged  my  early 
attempts.  I  really  could  not  say  anything 
abont  him  now.  frobably  I  shall  wrtto  an 
article  upon  him  myself,  and  prefer  that  what 
I  have  to  say  should  be  given  in  my  own 
words." 

Mr.  Dana,  editor  of  the  Sun,  writes:  **I  first 
knew  Mr.  Lowell  when  he  and  I  wars  Harvard 
sophomores.  He  used  to  come  to  oh  ape  1  eyery 
Sunday  with  Story,  now  the  sculptor,  and  tbey 
both  attracted  unusual  attention  became 
Lowoll  wore  a  broad  tnrned-down  collar  and 
Btory  a  very  wide-brimmed  bat.  Lowell's 
connection  with  Harvard  Collage  was 
maintained  until  Mr.  Hayes  started 
him  upon  that  career  of  dip- 
lomacy in  which  he  gained  the  epwoitunlty 
of  perhaps  his  greatest  distinction,  by 
appointing  him  Minister  so  Spain.  IVrai 
Madrid  hs  was  transferred  to  Kwrtaed,  and 
ther«»  bis  elegant  cultivation  and  fins  critical 
faculty,  evinced  in  after-dinner  speeches  and 
occasional  addresses,  found  a  congenial 
audience  and  high  and  Just  appreciation. 
These  address  were,  perhaps,  tha  most 
finished,  well  balanced  and  satisfactory  of  his 
yterary  labors.  They  deserved,  as  they  re-  , 
.jiTed.  unqualified  admiration,  and  hs  rev 
turn  3d  to  Boston  surrounded  with  a  popu- 
larity and  a  renown  which  relieved,  if  1t 
dH  not  obliterate,  the  relation  hs  was  as- 
suming to  the  Presidential  fraud  of  137C 
During  the  civil  war  be  was  as  earnest 
patriot,  and  ne  wrote  his  elaborate  and 
laborlrus  ode  on  the  murder  of  Lincoln 
after  Its  close.    Bot  an  admixture  of  Pharisaic 


moral  sentiment  was  too  strong  to  leave  his 
judgment  of  pablio  question*  comprehensive. 
In  a  word,  ha  was  finally  a  Muewump,  an -1  an 
antagonist  of  American  democracy." 
■  Dr.  Geoiga  B.  Lorlng  said  on  Thursday  In 
Salem:  James  Russell  Lowell  was  a  class- 
mate of  mine  and  an  Intimate  friend  for  many 
years  during  and  after  our  college  course. 
The  intercourse  we  had  with  each 
other  extended  from  1834,  when  we 
entered  college,  to  1857.  Our  correspond;'. 
ence  was  constant,  and  we  Interchanged 
visits  frequently  daring  that  period.  I  hare' 
now  lying  on  my  table  "A  Tear's  Life."  ihe  first 
book  of  poems  ho  published,  in  1841,  and 
I  remember  well  his  reading  these  poems  to 
me  in  manuscript  during  hts  visits  to  my 
lather's  house.  The  letters  ho  wrote  during 
that  Deriod  are  full  of  wit,  humor,  satire  and 
that  fresh,  boyish  spirtt  which  charmed  his 
associates  and  which  lies  at  the  foundation  of 
bis  "Fablo  for  Critics"  and  "Biglow 
Papers,"  from  Which  he  secured  his 
highest  fame.  It  was  as  toe  author  of 
the  latter,  as  the  professor  told  him 
that  the  degTeo  was  conferred  upon  him  at  Ox- 
ford. This  spirit  ran  through  all  his  brilliant 
youth  and  lies  at  the  foundation  oj 
his  rioer  greatness.  I  bare  a  hundred  of 
these  letters,  which  should  be  published,  not 
only  as  specimens  of  a  boy's  literary  capacity, 
but  as  illustrations  of  that  power  which  Is  Id 
after  life  developed  into  genius.  It  has  been 
given  to  few  men  to  enjoy  such  friendship  and 
association. 

Lowell  was  not  only  bright  and  keen  in  hi' 
mental  processes,  bnt  he  always  impressed  hi' 
associates     and     the     world     with    nu    pur 
Integrity.       He      knew      no       such       shirs 
as      equivocation.       At        times         he      at 
pcared     a    little    sharp,    but   he   was   alwai 
true  and  always  encouraged  exact  truth  in  1»' 
companions.    His  vitality  was  unbounded.     1) 
was  a  srortsmaD,  and  I  have  now  iho  fowlie 
i  ieco     he    gave    me    when    ho    retired    fro 
Ihe     liurfter's     field.     He     was     untiring 
his    pursuit    of     letters.       While      we     wo- 
in       college       he      spent      most      'fcf       lit 
lima  with  Chauc/tr  «T>d  the  old  EngllJp/  drag/.: 
lists-    Ai  Secretary  of  trie  Hasty  Pudding  Club 
his  work  was  inimitable,  and  the  record  book 
will     be     found    well    filed    with    his    bright ; 
and     tolling     little     poems     on     the     events ' 
and  Fellows  of  the  sooiety.    That  ho  was  care- 
less  of  hit  college  studios  his  rustication  at  the 
close  of  the  Senior  year,  when  be  formed  his  In- 
tlmacy      with      Emerson      and     lived     with 
"u/.iilni      Frost     at     Concord,      will    testily, 
a       tone        and        spirit     .and       cheerful 
audacity    and   keenness   of   his  mind  are  best 
illustrated    in   his"Faole  for  Critics,"   which 
has   bad    no   equal   In  wit  and  caustic  review 
except   the    "'English    Bards  and    Scotch    Re- 
viewers." 

Of  Mr.  Lowell's  maturer  life  the  world  Is  In 
full  possession.  His  achievements  as  a  poet,  an 
essayist,  a  diplomatist,  are  known  of  all 
men.  The  people  of  the  United  States  always 
telt  that  while  Lowell  represented  them  abroad 
their  intellectual  power,  their  honor  and  their 
highest  tone  were  well  represented.  In  Soain 
and  in  England  his  touch  was  always  with  the 
greatest  and  best  While  he  was  always 
guided  at  homo  and  abroad  by  the 
hixhost  loyalty  and  patriotism,  his  mind 
exercised  a  scholar's  Independence  in  examin- 
ing and  analysing  the  questions  of  the 
any  which  were  brought  to  his  notice.  I 
knew  him  as  a  strong  abolitionist  and 
an  ardent  tempersneo  man  under  the 
sweetest  domestic  influence  that  ever  fell  to  the 
lot  of  man.  a  decided  Whig  in  the  life- 
time of  that  dignified  old  party.  a 
Republican  of  most  decided  turn 
daring  the  days  of  Lincoln  and  tho  war,  a 
Democrat,  as  the  times  demanded,  a-  bravo, 
outspoken  man  through  it  all,  a  joy 
to  his  friends  and  an  honor  to 
his        country.  That        in        all        this 


33 

career  we  differed  is  not  surprising—  but  wo 
never  divided  In  all  those  sentiments  which 
bind  men  together  and  which  consvitute  the 
true  f  riei-dshio  of  life.  I  wish  I  had  time  to  dis- 
cuss his  literary  greatness,  bat  It  has  been  better 
done  by  others,  and  1  only  wait  for  an  oppor- 
tunity to  present  his  fine  character  as  boy  and 
man  to  his  fellow  citizens. 

The  Fuorrnl. 
The  pall  bearers  at  the  funeral  of  Hon.  James 
Russell  Lowell  at  Appleton  Chapel  this  noon 
will  be  Messrs.  Charles  F.  Cboa-te.  John  Holmes, 
Oliver  Wendell  Hoimos.  W,  D.  Howells,  Chris- 
topher P.  Crunch,  Charles  Eliot  Norton.  John 
Bartlett  and  Professor  Child.  Music  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Temple  Male  Quartette. 

Eaillih  Tribal**  (•  .Tlr.  I  eitell. 
London.  Aag.  13,  The  Times  says:  "The 
death  of  Mr.  Lowell  is  probably  more  keenly 
and  widely  felt  in  England  than  would  bo 
that  of  auy  other  American,  or,  indeed,  of  any 
man  not  a  fellow  countryman.  With  his  death 
there  passes  into  history  a  really  remarkable 
mind,  whose  reputation  will  grow  with,  time. 
Corrupt  politielaus  hated  him,  but  he  goes  to 
the  grave  moorned  by  all  that  ts  best  In  Amer- 
ica and  amid  the  heartfelt  regard  and  admira- 
tion of  England." 

The  Standard  says:  "  America  may  claim  the 
distinction  of  bis  birth,  but  his  fame  belongs  to 
the  wider  sepubllo  speaking  the  English 
tongue." 

The  Daily  News  says:  "  Mr.  Lowell  will  be 
lamented  in  England  not  less  than  in  America. 
He  was  ever  a  tighter  and  always  on  the  side  of 
truth,  honesty,  justice,  freedom,  mercy  and 
peace." 

All  the  other  London  morning  newspapers 
contain  simitar  comments  and  long  obituary 
notices. 

Mr.  Henry  Irving,  the  well-known  actor,  in  a 
letter  recelvod  to-day  in  thtsxity.  says  in  refer- 
ence to  Mr.  Lowell's  (loath:  *'l,  in  common 
with  all  English meu,  lament  the  loss  of  one  we 
so  loved  and  honored." 

All  the  afternoon  papers  ot  this  city  and  the 
papers  published  in  the  Provinces  hare  long 
and  loving  articles  on  Mr.  Lowell. 

Mr.  Edmund  William  Gosse,  who  in  1884-85 
delivered  the  ':  Lowell  Lectures"  in  several 
elV  <ot  the  United  States,  has  a  long  article 
in  the  St,  James  Gazette,  in  which  he 
speaks  lovingly  and  reverently  pf  bis  dead 
friend,  In  concluding  his  article  Mr, 
Gosse  says  |  "Jt  it  too  soon  \o  attempt 
A  final  estimate  of  his  place  In  history.  We 
thlnK  to-day  of  hts  stainless  record,  his 
lofty  intelligence  and  his  life-long  doyotion  to 
letters.  Amerioa  mourns  him  as  one  of  her  fore- 
most citizens.  We,  to  whom  America  lent  him, 
for  a  time,  may  stand  by  her  side  and  reverently 
partake  of  her  sorrow," 

Many  telegrams  from  Englishmen  prominent 
in  literary,  dramatic  and  other  walks  of  life 
are  being  received  in  this  city  expressing  sor- 
row, ana  deep  regret  at  the  death  of  Mr, 
Lowell.  Among  the  telegrams  received  this 
morning  was  one  from  Baron  Tennyson.  The 
aged  English  poet  was  a  closo  friend  of  Mr, 
Lowell,  and  the  latter's  death  has  affected 
him  deeply.  Lord  Tennyson's  message  says: 
"England  and  America  will  mourn  Mr.  Low- 
ell's death.  They  loved  him  and  be  loved  them. 
Pray  express  for  myself  and  mine  our  slncerest 
s>  mpathy  with  Mr.  Lowell's  family." 

FURTHER  f  RIBUTKS  TA> TEtfWELT/. 

London,  Aug.  14.— In  response  to  a  request 
Sir  Edwin  Arnold  wrote  last  night  for  the 
New  York  Herald's  European  edition  the  fol 
lowing  tribute  to  Mr.  Lowell: 

Since  you  invite  it,  1  too  will  venture  to  Jay 
this  small  laurel  wreath  on  the  bier  of  James 
Russell  Lowell.  1  tafce  my  private  share  in  the 
public  grief  for  his  loss,  both  as  a  humble  etn. 
zen  of  that  republic  of  letters  of  which  he  was, 
the  glory,  and  also  as   an  outside  friend. 


inew  him  as  a  man.  and  in  knowing  nim  los 
no  Jot  of  my  admiration  and  affection  fo:  lunv 
as  an  author,  which  does  not  often  happen. 
After  Longfellow,  Poe  and  Walt  Whitman.  1 
should  rauk  him  the  best  of  your  American 
poets.  But  he  was  even  greater  as  a  critic  and 
supreme  judge  of  literature  than  as  the  writer 
of  that  magnificent  commemoration  ode  and 
the  inimitable  "oiglow  Papers."  It  Is  much, 
when  all  the  world  must  ssy  that  the  least  of 
the  many  distinctions  of  this  sweet  and  subtle- 
natured  man  of  letters  was,  that  he  held  with 
a  noble  usefulness  and  perfect  loyalty  to 
"both  England*."  so  great  a  post  as  that  of 
Minister   from   the    United   States  to  Great 

bntam.  Edwin  Arnold. 

The  "*  'small  laurel  wreatb,rwhicb  Sir  Edwin 
Abnold  ventures  to  lay  *'on  the  brer  of 
"Jamzs  Russell  Lowell"  is  a  carious  one. 
Sir  Edwin  modertly  speaks  of  himself  as  "a 
"humble  citizen  of  that  republic  of  letters 
"of  which  he  was  the  glory."  But  it  is  a  pale 
sort  of  glory  which  comes  "after  Longfel- 
"low,,  Poe  and  Whitman,"  especially  the 
two  latter.  It  is  of  Lowell  as  a  poet,  of 
coarse,  that  Sir  Edwin  is  speaking  when  he 
uses  this  comparison ;  bnt  while  Lowell's 
place  in  poetry  is  perhaps  not  so  supreme  as 
his  place  in  criticism,  it  is  certainly  not  a  good 
judgment  which  compares  him  to  his  dis- 
advantage with  the  author  of  "The-  Raven" 
and  the  author  of  "Leaves  of  Grass,"  what- 
ever may  be  thought  of  Longfellow's  rela- 
tive place  among  our  creat  singers.  The 
tributes  which  Lowell's  death  have  called 
forth  in  England  and  iu  America  are  grateful 
to  hit  conutrymen;  but  thoy  will  feel  that 
Tennyson's  m'iopIo  words  strike  a  trtii-i  note 
than  the   labored    and    pretentious,  dictum  of 

"HE  SLEEPS  IBCL" 


James   Russell   Lowell  Laid   to 
Rest  in  Mt.  Auburn 


-  James  Russell  Lowell  now  sleeps  in  Mt 
Auburn  Cemetery,  almost  by  the  side  ot  his 
friend  and  fellow  poet.  Longfellow.  Hither 
the  body  was  borne  yesterday  at  noon  after  a 
simple  service  in  Appleton  Chanel.  The  spot 
is  a  romantic  one.  iu  a  little  valley,  and  the 
grave  is  shaded  by  two  hornbeam  trees.  The 
poet  himself,  it  is  said,  expressed  a  wish  to  be 
laid  to  rest  in  this  particular  nook  of  the 
family  lot  in  the  great  city  of  the  dead. 

At  Elm  wood.  Mr.  Lowell's  late  home,  the 
morninc  hours  were  as  quiet  as  they  were  sad. 
Promptly  at  11 :30  o'clock  the  casket,  with  a 
wreath  of  ivy,  was  placed  in  the  hearse  by 
Mr.  VVyeth,  the  undertaker,  and  bis  assistants. 
It  was  covered  with  black  vbroadclotb.  and 
was  without  ornament,  savo  a  silver  plate 
bearing  this  inscription: 

Died  Ang.  12, 1891. 

JAMES   KUSSELL  LOWELL, 

Ape J  72  years  D  months. 

The  honorary  pall-bearers  were  President 
C.  W.  Eliot,  the  Hon.  George  William  Curtis. 
Dr.  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes.  -W.  D  Howells. 
Christopher  P.  Cranch,  Professor  Charles 
Eliot  Norton,  Protessor  F.  J.  Child.  C.  F. 
Choatft,  John  Holmes  and  Professor  John  Bart- 
lett. The  mourners  were  ir.  three  carriages, 
the  first  two  containing  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward 
Burnett,  the  son-in-law  and  the  daughter  of 
ihe  poet,  with  their  children  and  nurse,  while 
in  the  last  carnage  were  the  sorrowing  do- 
mestics of  the  family,  many  of  whom  had 
been  at  Elm  wood  the  greater  part  of  their 
lives.  The  cortege  passed  from  the  grounds 
luto  Elmwood  avenue,  through  Brattle  street. 


to  Mason,  and  thence  through  Garden  street, 
passing  the  historic*  Washington  elm  and 
the  Cambridge  Common  and  across  Peabocy 
street,  through  the  central  gateway  to  Apple- 
ton  Chapel. 

Or  APTLKTON  CttAPEI. 

Theebapei  was  crowded.  Representatives 
ol  all  classes  had  come  here  to  show  their  re- 
spect and  esteem  for  the  rare  geoias  which 
bad  dowered  "in  this  beautiful  and  blossom- 
ing Cambridge."  Here  were  gathered,  too. 
men  and  women  famous  In  literature,  the  arts 
and  sciences.  The  dignity  and  the  solemnity 
of  the  occasion  were  a  little  unusuaL  The 
very  hush  which  characterizes  such  gather- 
ings even  seemed  more  awe-inspiring. 

At  length  the  funeral  cortege  arrived. 
Bishop-elect  Brooks,  who  was  to  officiate, 
assisted  by  the  Rev.  William  Lawrence,  dean 
of  .the  Episcopal  Theological  Seminary  at 
Cambridge,  met  the  mourning  party  at  the 
chnrch  door,  and  preceded  them  up  the  broad 
aisle.  Dr.  Lawrence  repeating  the  opening 
words  of  the  burial  service,  "I  am  the  resur- 
rection and  the  life."  The  prayers  wete  by 
Dr.  Brooks.  There  was  no  discourse.  Tho 
music  which  was  entirely  vocal,  without  or- 
gan accompaniment,  was  under  the  directiOL 
ot  A.  VV.  Locke,  the  chorister  of  the  Harvard 
Chaoel.  It  vras  furnished  by  a  male  quartette, 
consisting  of  X.  E.  Johnson,  first  tenor;  G.  U  . 
Want,  second  tenor;  G.  H.  Remele,  first  bass. 
A.  C.  Ryder,  second  bass.  The  selections  ren- 
dered were  the  obant  at  the  opening  of  tbc 
service— Buck's  "Lord,  Let  Me  Know  Aline 
End  ;"  the  "Beati  Mortui"  of  Mendelsohn,  .'. 
C.  i>.  Parker's  "I  Heard  a  Voice  from  heaven, 
i'tid  Kalliwoda's  "Libera  Me." 

The  decorations  in  the  chapel  were  not  ela'- 
orate.  At  the  base  of  the  pulpit  rested  i. 
wreath  of  roses,  a  token  from  the  poet's  sisiet, 
.,lrs.  Putnam.  Mrs.  James  T.  Fields  hung  a 
laurel  wreath  close  to  the  coftin.  Other  than 
these  there  wete  notioral  tokens  ot  love.  The 
funeral  arrangements  were  in  charge  of  Chief 
Usher  Edward  Jackson.  The  older  ushers 
were  A  Lawrence  Lowell.  George  Gardner, 
Ernest  Jackson,  Francis  L  Ccohuge,  Artlivu 
Lyman  and  Moorneld  Storey.  The  reiative- 
aud  family  of  the  deceased,  the  pall  heartl- 
and members  ot  the  Loyal  Legion  ana  Har- 
vard Corporation  occupied  a  dozen  reserve! 
pews  across  the  church  directly  in  front  of  tb 
pulpit. 

1XANY  PROMINENT  NAMES. 

In  the  chapel,  among  the  prominent  people 
were  the  following:  Charles  Theodore  Uu-.m  .. 
the  Governor's  father:  Justin  Winsor,ltbrari...i 
ot  Harvard  College;  H.  O.  Houghton,  jr.,  W.S 
Clymer,  George  Putnam,  the  Rev.  Di  Alexan- 
der of  Cambridge,  the  Rev.  Edward  (3  Porter 
of  LeringtoD.  the  Rev.  E.  A.  Rand  of  Water- 
town.  Edwin  D.  Mead.  Leveiett  S&ltonstail, 
State  Librarian  Tilllnghast,  Frank  B.Sanborn. 
Mayor  Alger  of  Cambridge.  President 
Wheeler  of  the  Cambridge  Common  Council, 
Henry  L  Higginson.  Newton  G.  Martin. 
Joseph  G.  Thorpe,  jr.,  Richard  H.  Daua,  Pro 
lessor  Charles  Eliot  Norton,  George  William 
Curtis.  W.  A,  Vaughn,  the  Key.  Dr.  J.  I.  T. 
Coolidge,  the  Rev.  Dr.  A.  P.  Peabody.  Charles 
P.  Putnam.  Dr.  Henry  P.  Wolcott,  J.  J.  Put- 
nam, W.  C.  Lane  and  Frank  Carney  of  the 
Harvard  College  Library,  Professor  Goorge 
Mendall  Taylor.  John  A.  Glidden 
of  Dover.  N.  H.;  George  P.  Davis 
of  Bostou.  Robert  H.  foppan  of 
Cambridge.  Mrs.  J-  T.  Fields,  the  Rev.  Wilson 
Waters  of  St.  Anne's  Church,  Lowell;  ex- 
Mayor  Green  of  Boston.  J.  J.  Myers.  Mrs.  Au- 
gustus Lowell  of  Brookline,  Mrs.  Henry  Cabot 
Lodge.  William  LlovU  Garrison.  Mrs.  H.  O. 
Houghton,  jr..  Mrs.  Agassiz  and  sister.  Mi*se3 
Howoof  Cambridge,  Mrs.  William  Blake.  Mrs 
Burt  Dexter.  Arthur  Dexter,  Mrs.  .Nelson 
make  of  Arlington,  Mrs.  J.  H.  Shaploigb  of 
Brookline.  Mrs.  F.  L.  Goold  ot  Cambridge, 
Mrs.  Heury  Whitman  of .  Beverly  Farms, 
Charles  Francis  Adams,  William  Asoinwall  of 
Brooklino.  A,  W.  Blake  of  Brookline,  A.  S. 
Parsons  of  Cambridge.  Professor  Ware  ot  Co, 
Inmbia  College,  Professor  Francke.  naocki 
Kozaki  and  K.  Fukusbivna.  Japanese  students 
of  Harvard:  Professor  Conn  ot  Harvard.  Gen 
eral  \.  P.  Martin,  William  Kendall.  Captain 
James  A.  Fox.the  Kev.  A.  B.  Muzzey,  Dr.  Wll- 
Dam  James.ProfessorT.A.Dwver  of  Richmond 


34 

University,  rroiessor  H.  W.  Williams,  tjeoigo 
T.  Coverlev.  William  B.  de  las  Casas,  Professor 
Ware,  Columbia  College,  New  York:  Richard 
Watson  Gilder.  George  Abbott  James,  tho 
Rev.  T.  P.  Pruddeu.  D.D.,  Chicago:  Dr. 
Thomas  H.  Cunningham,  the  Hon.  Godfrey 
Morse.  Postmaster  Gormley  of  Cambridge  and 
Miss  Ellen  T.  Emerson,  daughter  of  the  poet 
Emerson.  ... 

A  delegation  was  also  present  from  th  o  Loyal 
Legion,  of  which  Mr.  Lowell  was  a  member, 
as  follows:  General  John  L  Otis,  Colonel 
Stephen  M.Crosby,  General  Francis  A. Walker, 
Colonel  Augustus  P.  Martin,  Colonel  Charles 
K.  Codman,  Colonel  T.  W.  Higginson.  the  Hon 
Frederick  W.  Lincoln.  Colonel  Henry  £tone. 
William  Endieott.  jr..  Colonel  Heary  l.ee. 
Major  Russ  II  Sturgis.  Can'ain  Nathan  Applo- 
too,  General  Edward  W,  Hincks,  Colonel 
Arnold  A.  Rand  and  Captain  Hiram  S  Sburt- 
letf. 

12?    THE  CKMETERT. 

While  the  body  was  being  moved  to  Mt, 
Auburn  Cemetery,  tho  bells  of  Cambridge 
ranc  out  laments,  and  many  flags  fio:\ted  at 
half  mast,  by  order  of  Mayor  Alger.  In  the 
cemetery  there  was  a  considerable  number  of 
people,  hut  onlv  tho  motirne-s  were  allowed 
at  the  grave.  Dr.  Brooks  mad9  the  last  prayor. 
and  the  sid  rites  wc*-&  over.  Although  Mr. 
Lowell  »vas  a  UuitartdB,  it  was  bis  wish  that 
the  funeral  service  should  be  that  of  the  Epis- 
copalian fburch- 


""MA'fcro.v.  Aug.  14.— Mr.  R.  W.  Gilder  of  the 
Century  said,    in   speaking  of    the   death  of 
James  Russell  Lowell,  that  aside  from  grief  at 
the  loss  '■!  a  iriend,  he  felt    that   the  country 
suffered  greatiy  at  what   was   really   an   un- 
timely death,  lor  until    this   last   illness    Mr. 
Lowell's  youtlifulness   of   spirit  and  apparent 
vitiluv  gave  promise  of  yearj  of   intellectual 
pioiluctivetiess.      "Mr.    Lowell,"    added   Mr. 
Gilder,      "was     not     only     a     great     poet 
and    a    great    scholar,    but     a     great  *,  citi- 
zen.    I    regard    him    also    as    one     of    the 
most  able  and  effective  politicians   that  this 
country  bas  ever  produced,  using  the  word  in 
its  true  r-.nd  ondegraded  sense.    Not  only  by 
his  example  and  the  inspiration  of  his  career 
did  lie  foster  American  literature,  bat  also  by 
Ins  quickness   to   recognize  talent  and  a  pur» 
intention  in  others,  especially   in   his  juniors. 
He  was  an  inspir6r  also  ot  American  partriot- 
ism.  a  fearless  critic   of    our  country  s  short- 
comings, but  a  lirm  and  prophetic  believer  in 
its  high  destiny.     We  shall  have  other  great 
poets  and  patriots,  but  never  another  LowelL" 
New  York.  Aug.  14.— Mr.  Richard  Henry 
Stoddard  fills  the  greater  part  of  a  column  in 
the  Mail  and  Express   this   afternoon   with  a 
tribute  to  Mr.  Lowell.    In  part  it  says:     "He 
was  thoroughly  literate,  a  master  ot   his  own 
language,  aud  a   scholar   in   other   tongue* — 
ancient  and  modern.    There  was  no  literary 
position  which  he  could  ndtbave  filled  with 
honor  aud  no  literary  work  which  he  could 
net  have   performed   with   distinction.      His 
prose    was   admirable,    lively,   spirited,  ener- 
getic, fluent,  humorous,  witty,  sparkling  with 
epigrams  and  enlivened  with  recondite  illu- 
sions.   His  forte  was  criticism,  not  merely  of 
English  letters  of  which  we   all   suppose  w< 
Know    something,    but    foreign    literatures, 
French.  Italian,   Spanish.    German   and    the 
great  literatures  of  Greece   and   Rome,  which 
is  and  ought  to  be,  the  despairing   admiration 
ot  generations  like  ours.    No  English  critical 
writing  of  the  time,  and  certainly   no   Ameri- 
can critical  writing,  is  so  generally  intelligent 
and  catholic,  so  accute   and   wise,  so  judicial 
md  jnst,  so  liberal,  so  large   and   so  decisiye 
as   that  of   Mr.  LowelL    We  may  cavil  at  hi! 
verse,    which  is  not   flawless,   but   we   cat, 
uot.    without    hypercriticism.    cavil    at    nil 
prose,   which,   equal   to   any   that  we  hava 
produced  for  'he   interchange   of  opinions,  is 
superior  to  all  that  we  have  produced  in  the 
shape  of  critical  analysis  and  study  and   judg- 
ment.   We  have  lost  in  him  a  critic   who  bad 
a  right  to  be  hearj.be  bad  so  thoroughly  tilled 
himself  for  the  charr  which  he  occupied,   and 
to  whom  we  were   bound   to   listen   thought- 
fully, if  not  reverently,  for  he  spoke   as   with 
authority,  and  not  as  do  the  scribes   who  are 
so  numerous  among  us:  aud   we  Have  lost  iu, 
htm  a  poet  of  originality  and  distinction,  who. 
if  he  wrote  less  poetry  than   he  might   have 
done,  and  we  thiuk  ought  to  have  done,  wrote 
enough  to  distinguish  his  name  and  enrich 
our  literature.    We  have  other  men  of   letters 
ot  the  earlier  generations   to   lose,    bat   none 
whose  taking  oil  will  affect  us  like  that  ot  Mr. 
Lowell."  


The  Rev.  Edward  E.  Hale  contributes  to  the 
Commonwealth,  published  today,  the  follow- 
ing reminiscences  and  personal  tribute  to  the 
memory  of  his  friend :  "The  death  of  Mr. 
Lowell  will  ba  beard  with  saduess  among  all 
people  who  use  the  language  which  he  used 
so  well.  It  will  be  beard  with  sadness  aisu 
among  the  leaders  of  Spain,  where  his  life 
was  so  honorable  to  himself,  and  where  he  re- 
newed the  warm  relations  which  have  united 
:'nain  and  the  United  States.  In  this  neigh- 
borhood, however,  which  is  his  home,  there  is 
a  world  of  personal  recollections  of  the  utmost 
tenderness,  which  are  quickened  by  the  an- 
nouncement that  we  are  not  to  see  his  face 
again,  or  meet  his  cordial  salutation.  He  was 
gifted  with  that  greatest  of  gifts,  the  art  of 
making  friends:  and  in  every  circle  which  has 
known  him  there  are  pathetic  remembrances 
of  the  friendships  which  he  had  formed  and 
the  steadiness  with  which  be  maintained 
them. 

"the  yonng  men  who  were  around  Mr. 
Lowell  in  his  college  days  knew,  fifty  years 
ago.  that  he  was  to  he  one  ot  the  greatest 
poets  ot  the  time,  as  well  as  thoy  know  now 
that  he  has  achieved  that  promise.  The 
members  of  his  own  class  with  perfect  unani- 
mity appointed  htm  their  class  poet,  and  this 
-.'.  as  not  before  he  bad  written  and  published 
litems  the  sweetness  and  tenderness  of 
„  hich  are  still  remembered.  There  is,  in- 
deed, a  touching  anecdote,  perfectly  authen- 
ticated, of  the  half  plaintive  way  in  which 
dear  Dr.  Lowell,  bis  revered  father,  said  to  a 
friend  that  James  had  promised  him  that  he 
would  give  no  writing  poetry  and  wonld  take 
to  study.  There  is  hardly  a  father  in  the 
world  who  would  not  feel  gratified  if  bis  sod 
at  the  university  made  him  snch  a  promise. 
But  as  one  recalls  the  story  now.  it  is  simply 
to  be  thankful  that  Dr.  Lowell  misappre- 
hended the  precision  of  the  promise,  or  that 
tho  poet  found  it  impossible  for  him  to  make 
good  his  words.  The  instinct  of  the  poet  wai 
in  him,  and  it  was  not  to  be  trampled  out  by 
any  firm  resolution  of  the  student 

"The  university  did  not.  indeed,  show  it* 
foresight  in  its  handling  of  one  who.  fifty 
years  after,  it  was  proud  to  make  its  orator. 
The  tiadition  was  that,  the  government  were 
very  unwilling  to  proceed  to  the  harshest 
measures,  but.  at  the  very  last,  on  the  central 
no'.nt  of  pressing  his  attendance  at  chapel— 
where  he  almost  always  found  himself  too 
late  for  entrance— he  was  suspended  from  the 
college,  and  was  not  able  himself  to  read  the 
ncem  which  he  bad  prepared  for  Class  Day. 
Well-authenticated  tradition  says  that  he 
witnessed  the  ceremony  of  the  dance  around 
the  tree  through  the  chinks  ot  a  covered 
wagon  iu  which  he  had  ridden  from  Concord, 
which  was  nis  place  of  exile,  his  loyalty  to 
his  Alma  Mater,  however,  afterward  showed 
that  ho  took  no  offence  for  any  harshness  of 
her  treatment.  And  as  professor,  and  as  orator 
on  tho  great  day  of  hor  quarter-millennium, 
he  repaid  to  her  a  linndred-fold  all  that  be 
had  received  from  hor.  And  in  all  that  be 
has  done  for  literature  and  education  in 
America,  he  has  shown  himself  not  unworthy 
■of  her  I  est  traditions. 

"Since  his  return  to  this  country,  Mr.  Lowell 
has  not  been  able  to  take  a  very  active  part 
either  in  literature  or  in  public  affairs.  But 
whoover  has  mot  him  has  found  the  old  cor- 
diality and  simplicity  and  the  readiness  to 
render  service  where  service  came  within  his 
power.  From  the  inexhaustible  stores  of  his 
reading  he  would  always  contribute  to  the 
necessities  ot  any  one  who  applied  to  bim; 
and  with  the  freshness  ot  youth  added  to  the 
exponence  of  manhood,  he  kept  his  eves  open 
to  wliatovor  was  interesting  in  the  literature 
of  our  time  or  In  the  study  of  our  language. 
Ho  felt  tlie  personal  losses  which  are  the  sever- 
est penalty  i  f  advancing  life.  The  last  time  I 
met  hi ri  1  congratulated  him  that  he  was  at 
K'niwood,  and  he  said,  with  his  tender  smile, 
"Yea.  it  is  good  to  be  there,  but  the  house  is 
full  of  ghosts."  And  so  indeed  it  was.  But  he 
could  not  be  morose:  be  would  not  oppress  his 
friends  with  the  story  of  any  of  his  own  re- 
grets- and  the  last  and  earliest  memories 
winch  we  htvo  of  him  are  of  his  cordiality. 
affectum,  and  tender  sympathy." 


TRIBUTES  TO  LOWELL. 


WORDS      OF     AFFECTION      FROM 
ENGLAND    AND    AMERICA. 


A  Messnjje  from  Tennyson  —  London 
Press  Opinions— Grief  of  Whlttler 
anil  HolmesT   .  ..    «„  n     $?$£ 


London,  August  18.— Ths  Times  eaya:  "  Tbe 
death  of  Mr.  Lowell  it  probably  more  keenly 
and  widely  felt  iu  England  than  would  be 
tbat  of  any  other  American,  or,  Indeed,  of  any 
man  not  a  fellow-countryman.  With  his 
death*  there  passes  into  history  a  really  re- 
markable mind,  who**  reputation  will  grow 
with  time.  Corrupt  politicians  hated  him, 
but  be  goes  to  tbe  grave  mourned  by  all  tbat  is 
boat  iu  America  and  amid  the  heartfelt  regard 
and  admiration  of  England." 

The  Standard  says:  "  America  may  claim 
the  distinction  of  hit  birth,  but  hia  fame  be- 
longs to  tbe  wider  republic  speaking  the  Eng- 
lish tongue. " 

The  Daily  News  sayei  "  Mr.  Lowell  will  be 
lamented  in  England  not  leas  than  in  America. 
He  was  ever  a  fighter  and  always  on  the  aide 
of  truth,  honesty,  Justice,  freedom,  mercy, 
and  peace," 

All  tbe  other  London  morning  newspapers 
contain  similar  comments  and  long  obituary 
notices. 

Mr.  Walter  Basant,  tbe  well-known  novelist 
and  First  Chairman  of  the  Executive  Commit- 
tee of  the  Incorporated  Society  of  Authors, 
has  sent  a  telegram  from  Dartmoor,  In  which, 
referring  to  tbe  death  of  Mr.  Lowell,  he  says: 
"  Tbe  English  Authors'  Society  sende  ita  deep- 
est regreta  and  sympathy  with  Americana  on 
the  death  of  that  great  writer,  its  friend, 
James  Russell  Lowell." 

Many  telegrams  from  Englishmen  promi- 
nent in  literary,  dramatic,  and  other  walks  of 
life  are  being  received  in  this  city  expressing 
deep  repret  at  thedeath  of  Mr.  LowelL  Among 
the  telegrams  received  this  morning  was  one 
from  Tennyson,  who  has  receatly  returned  to 
his  rosidence  at  AM  worth,  near  Haslemsre, 
from  his  summer  home  at  Freshwater,  Isle  of 
Wight.  Ine  aged  English  post  was  a  close 
friend  of  Mr.  Lowell,  and  the  tatter's  death  has 
affected  blm  deeply.  Lord  Tennyson's  mes- 
sage says  : 

"  England  and  America  will  mourn  Mr. 
Lowell's  death.  They  loved  him  and  he  loved 
tbem.  Pray  express  for  myself  and  mine  our 
sinoerest  sympathy  with  Mr.  Lowell's  family. 
"  TKNirrsoi*." 
Henry  Irving,  In  a  letter  received  to-day  in 
tbis  city,  says,  in  referenoe  to  Mr.  Lowell's 
death  :  "I,  in  common  with  all  Englishmen, 
lament  the  loss  of  one  we  so  loved  and 
honored." 

All  tbe  afternoon  papers  of  this  city  and  the 
papers  published  In  the  provinces  have  long 
and  loving  articles  on  Mr.  Lowell. 

Tbe  Fall  Mall  Gazette  says:  "  The  univer- 
sal expressions  of  admiration  and  regret  on  this 
side  of  tbe  ocean  bear  eloquent  testimony  to 
the  reality  of  the  entente  between  the  two 
great  sections  of  the  English-speaking  race, 
which  it  was  one  of  the  objects  of  Mr.  Lowell's 
lifeto  promote.  His  place  is  with  Carlyle and 
Ruskin.  What  tbeae  men  have  done  in  prose 
to  kindle  faitb,  stimulate  conscience,  and 
direct  the  energiea  of  their  time,  Mr.  Lowell 
haa  done  rn  his  pTophetic  verse." 

Mr.  Edmund  William  Ooase,  who  in  1834-'85 
delivered  tbe  "  Lowell  Lectures  "  in  several 
cities  of  tbe  United   State*,   haa  a  long  article 


35 

in  the  St.  James's  Gazette  in  which  he  speaks 
lovingly  of  his  dead  friend.  In  concluding  hia 
article,  he  aays:  "  It  is  too  soon  to  attempt  a 
final  estimate  of  his  place  in  history.  We 
think  to-day  of  bis  stainless  record,  his  lofty 
intelligence,  and  his  life-long  devotion  to  let- 
ters. America  mourns  him  as  one  of  her  fore- 
most citizens.  We,  to  whom  America  lent 
bim  for  a  time,  may  stand  by  her  side  and 
reverently  partake  of  her  sorrow." 

Bosto.v,  August  13.— Dr.  Oliver  Wendell 
Ho  dips  is  much  affected  by  the  death  of  his 
life-long  friend  James  Russell  Lowell,  al- 
though, as  be  taya,  be  has  known  It  was  com- 
ing a  long  time.  He  declines,  however,  to 
talk  on  the  shbject  for  publication  at  this  time. 

Newbdryport,  Mass.,  August  13.— John 
Greenleaf  Whittier,  who  has  been  forced  to 
return  from  the  mountains  by  ill-bealtb,  was 
much  shocked  to  hear  of  Mr.  Lowell's  death. 
"  Too  bad,  too  bad,"  he  said.  "  It  is  indeed  a 
great  loss  to  American  letters  and  to  the 
world." 

Northampton,  Masa,  August  IS.— George 
W.  Cable,  the  novelist,  speaking  of  Mr. 
Lowell,  said:  "  Mr.  Lowell  was  one  of  those 
American  writers  who  joins  tbe  strongest  im- 
pulses of  national  citizenship  with  the  world's 
citixenship,  and  the  highest  loyally  to  the 
highest  art.  What  be  wrote  be  was — and 
much  more.  He  stands  this  test  of  greatness, 
that  there  is  no  falling  off  when  we  turn  to 
the  man  and  his  life  from  the  author  and  his 
books." 

North  Corway.  N.  H.,  August  13.— Wm. 
Dean  Howells,  when  informed  of  Mr.  Lowell's 
death,  was  deeply  affected.  He  declined  to 
voice  his  estimate- of  Mr.  Lowell  as  a  poet  and 
a  man.  "  He  was  too  near  and  too  dear  to 
me,"  he  said,  "  for  me  to  say  anything  upon 
tbe  subject  at  present.  His  death  is  a  national 
calamity.  Postibly  I  shall  write  an  article 
npon  bim  myself,  and  prefer  that  what  1  have 
to  say  should  be  given  in  my  own  words." 

Bar  Harbor,  Me.,  August  13  —Secretary 
Blaine,  when  Informed  of  the  death  of  James 
Russell  Lowell,  expressed  his  dwj'Oit  sympa- 
thy at.  the  sa>l  news.  \\  b.m  asked  if  he  woidd 
not  inako  some  it>,U  ment  of  Mr.  Lowell's  oa- 
re«r  a<  a  diplomatist,  he  df  dined  to  do  so. 

Mr.  Lowell's  death  has  brought  ont  a  flood  of 
niTcclionat<  reminiscence  and  anecdote.  The 
Evening  F'">s*.  prints  the  "well-authenticated 
story  '  th.\t  Mr.  Gladstone's  adoption  of  his 
Homo  Kule  poljoy  was  hastened  by  the  influ- 
ence of  Mr.  Lowell,  while  Minister  to  Great 
Britaiii.  It  was  Iu  repeated  conversations  with 
Mr.  Gladstone  that  Lowell  sowed  the  seed 
which  may  somo  day  be  productive  of  Irish  lib- 
erty. This  statement  is  said  to  De  corroborated 
from  an  English  source— possibly  from  Mr. 
Gladstone  himself. 

Mr.  Stedman.  in  speaking  of  him  yesterday, 
sni. I :  "  Lowell's  governing  instinct  was  literary. 
Anyone  who  know  him  in  his  home  life  at  Cam- 
bridge associates  bim  with  shni  ves  of  rare  books, 
early  folios  and  all  things  suggestive  of  scholar- 
ship and  literary  investigation.  At  thewame  time 
he  also  had  the  genuine  New  England  charac- 
ter, aud  never  could  be  contented  to  figure  as  a 
mere  bookworn.  Ho  took  rhe  greatest  interest 
In  human  life,  and  was  born  to  touch  life  at  all 
its  points.  Veil  uiiteht  say  that  he  was  born  with 
convictions  to  tvhlch  he  continuously  added 
through  life,  and  it  seems  to  me  tbat  the  phrase 
which  he  applied  iu  the  '  Fable  for  Critics' to 
Emerson  applies,  of  all  men  in  tho  world,  to 
himself;  ha  had   a  Greek   head  on  right  Yan- 


kee si  :  tilde/*  Honcu  he  was  In  a  state.  1  would 
not  s.  of  conflict,  but  of  perpetual  cbango  be- 
tween his  ethical  beuti  which  took  on  a  polemic 
tori",  i.id  his  taste  and  love  of  beauty.  This 
yen  can  «ee  constantly  in  his  poetry." 
6. 
When   a  tripling  I  went  to  see  Mr.  Emerson 

about  a  certain  course  of  reading  and  study. 
I  remember  that  the  venerated  sage  of  Concord 
delivered  himself  et  the  rather  pungent  oolulon 
that  "most  of  tbe  students  of  Harvard  might  as 
well  be  In  the  Back  Bay  "—because  they  had 
not  the  eyes  with  which  to  see  their  opportuni- 
ties. After  some  cordial  and  very  common- 
sense  advice  of  his  own,  he  sent  me  to  Mr. 
Loweil.  and  so  It  waa  that  I  saw  the  Master  of 
Elm  wood  and  talked  with  blm  in  his  own 
house.  How  heipful  he  was,  bow  kind  and 
gracious,  all  whobave  ever  known  the  magic 
courtesy  of  his  manner  can  well  imagine.  To 
me  it  seemed  the  hrst  opening  of  the  door  of  the 
great  world,  and  so  I  told  him. 

Years  afterward,  meeting  Mr.  Lowell  in 
Madrid.  I  ventured  to  remind  him  of  the  small 
visit  of  the  immature  lad  prompted  by  the 
good  Emerson,  and  he  was  kind  enough  to  say 
that  he  remembered  it.  The  years  bad  touched 
him  lightly  at  tbat  time.  It  did  cot  seem  to  me 
that  from  1868  to  1870  he  had  aged  a  minute. 
Mentioning  this  to  Castelar  a  day  or  two  after- 
ward, the  eloquent  Spaniard  turned  noon  me 
with  one  of  his  sweeping  gesturea  "Lowell,'' 
ho  said,  in  his  picturesque  fashion:  "how 
should  he  grow  old?  Is  he  not  one  of  the  Im- 
mortals? " 

6. 

Few  people  ever  knew  what  an  omnivorous, 
indefatigable  reader  Mr.  Lowell  waa  Ho  read 
on,  read  ere*.  In  those  aays  which  I  have  just 
mentioned  bis  wife  was  seriously  ill  with  a 
lingering  malady,  destined  to  termtnate  fatally 
in  London  a  little  later.  Mr.  Lowell  watched 
by  her  bedside  all  night  long,  never  closing  bis 
eves  until  the  next  day  after  the  duties  of  the 
Legation  were  over,  when  be  allowed  himself 
an  hour  or  two  of  sleep.  "lam  obliged,"  he 
said,  "to  prop  myself  In  a  certain  posi- 
tion in  my  ohalr  to  avoid  any  danger 
of  dozing;  then  I  group  my  books 
around  me  and  read  and  attend  to  my  uatient 
alternately."  After  this  had  gone  on  for  some 
weeks,  he  said,  "they  formed  a  plot  against 
me  and  brought  out  an  English  nurse  from  Lon- 
don. On  the  night  ol  her  arrival  I  was  banished 
to  ned  at  a  normal  hour.  But  as  luck  would 
have  it,  the  new  nurse  fell  asleep  on  the  first 
night  of  her  watching;  she  was  wakened  by  a 
cry  from  my  wife,  wbo  saw  the  candles  setting 
the  bed  clothes  on  fire,  and  after  this  alarm  I 
insisted  on  returning  to  my  post.  So  there  I  am 
back  again,  arm  chair,  books  and  all." 

Tbe  temporary  recovery  of  his  Invalid  wife 
filled  Mr.  ix>well  wltb  joy,  and  his  11ns  over- 
flowed with  thanksgiving.  Madrid  was  a  pleas- 
ant place  of  sojourn  for  blm  personally.  He 
cared  little  for  the  exaggerated  etiquette  of  the 
Court,  but  he  liked  the  good  literary  society. 
There  were,  however,  he  said,  a  great  many' 
"professors  of  mere  phrasing"  in  Spain:  au- 
thors with  good  sense  of  literary  fame  without 
many  Ideas  to  convey  In  U  Of  C»s  telar's  robust 
and  vigorous  genius  he  waa  never  weary  of 
speAkingln  terms  of  highest  praise.  He  thought 
that  the  contemporary  school  of  Spanish  poetry 
bad  a  high  destiny. 


Nstvxb  was  truer  word  spoken  than  that  re- 
mark of  "Taverner'a"  concerning  James  Russell 
Lowell,  reprinted  in  today's  Post : 

To  understand  the  influences  which  developed 
Lowell's  genius,  we  must  go  back  to  the  aimple 
life  of  his  boyhood  and  youth  In  his  native 
town,  where,  instead  of  the  artificial  character 
which  has  since  penetrated  It.  there  was  a  de- 
licious natural  enjoyment. 

It  remains  to  be  seen  what  the  present  Cam- 
bridge will  produce  for  the  benefit  of  American 
letters  and  life.  Perhaps  it  is  too  soon  to  have 
expected  the  new  conditions  there  to  fructify. 


Dr.  Holmes  akd  Mb.  Whiti'Ikb"  are  all  of 
the  elder  men  of  letters  of  the  distinctly©  first 
period  of  our  literature  who  remain,  and  their 
association  with  Mr.  Lowell  was  naturally  so 
warmly  personal  that  their  feeling  is  now  more 
like  that  of  brothers  of  blood  than  mere 
brothers  of  the  pen.  A  visitor  to  Dr.  Holmes 
yesterday  at  his  summer  home  at  Beverly 
Farms  was  told  that  It  Is  not  likely  that  his  old 
friend  will  attempt  a  biography  of  the  dead 
poet.  That  will  be  a  work  for  a  younger  man. 
"Three  weeks  ago  I  paid  my  last  visit  to  him," 
said  Dr.  Holmes,  "and  could  see  that  ho 
had  failed  greatly.  He  was  reading  a  vol- 
ume of  Scott  when  I  entered  and  though 
greatly  debilitated,  was  cheerful."  Mr. 
Whit  tier  spoke  of  the  narrowing  of  the  lit- 
tle circle— Hawthorne,  Lowell,  Longfellow,  F.ir>- 
ersoti,  Motley  and  himself— until  now  only  two 

wore  left.  "Wo  had  expected  much  good  work 
from  Lowell,  even  after  70,"  he  continued.  "It 
was  hoped  that  he  would  have  ten  good  yoar;« 
to  work  after  he  returned  from  Europe.  It  was 
supposed  he  might  do  some  work  even  suporioi 
to  anything  he  had  produced."  Mr,  E.  C.  Sted 
man,  asked  for  his  estimate  of  Lowell,  replied 
that  "thero  is  but  one  thing  to  say-  he  ranks  f»s 
our  very  foremost  man  of  letters." 

LOWELL'S  EARLY  LIFE.  ' 

Hon.    Stephen    M.  Allen's    Reminiscences. 

■^Accidental  circu Distances  in  early  life 
brought  mo  an  intimate  acquaintance  and 
association  with  James  Russell  Lowell, 
which  lasted  for  a  number  of  years.  His 
deep,  comprehensive  and  versatile  talent, 
coupled  with  a  wide  rango  of  theoretlo 
♦raining,  under  the  influence  of  a  vivid 
imagination,  gave  him  a  most  instructive 
ami  interesting  character.  There  was  no 
subject,  from  the  highest  spiritual  and 
ethical,  down  to  the  aggregation  and  correla- 
tion of  matter,  that  he  was  not  ready  to  con- 
verse upon  and  discuss.  His  range  of 
thought  reached  round  that  circle  which 
enclosed  all  that  social  and  industrial  life, 
and  gave  character  to  the  moral,  political 
and  progressive  success  of  a  free  and  inde- 
pendent people. 

In  his  early  days  he  became  warmly  at- 
tracted to  those  of  independent  thought 
and  character  who  •  had  been  educated  lit  a 
different  school  or  sphere  from  his  own. 
This  was  the  secret  tie  which,  held  Jis 
together  for  ten  or  fifteen  years.  His 
was  a  smooth,  easy  life  up  to  twenty-five 
years  of  age,  while  mijie  had  been  one  of 
rare  intensity,  toil  and  hardship.  When  at 
eight  ho  wns  studying  his  Latin  accidence 
under  the  tuition  of  an  indulgent  and  dis- 
tinguiFhed  father,  knowing  no  pecuniary 
wa iit~  and  free  from  mental  and  bodily  suf- 
fering, it  was  my  lot,  while  having  as  good  a 
father,  though  but  an  obscure  village  school- 
master, to  be  studying  the  mixture  of  colors 
In  a  calico  print-works,  for  ten  or  twelve 
hours  a  day  and  reciting  progress  at  home 
after  the  day's  work  was  done.  While 
Lowell  at  twelve  felt  himself  already  on  the 
way  to  the  enjoyment  and  security  of  a 
remunerative  profession  of  belles-lettres  in 
some  literary  institution — for  he  ever  studied 
to   be   independent   of   others,  for  personal 


36 
support — it  was  expected  of  me  to  be  able  to 
draw  every  piece  of    machinery  then  needed 
in  a  cotton  mill,  preparatory  to  a  future  pro- 
fession of  a  mechanieal  engineer. 

Lowell  was  quick  to  learn  the  real  history 
of  his  yonng  associates,  and  made  them  feel 
that  their  personal  experiences  became  one 
with  bis  own  In  mutual  works  for  the 
common  good.  Henoa  the  necessity  of 
dwelling  upon  personalities  in  this  remi- 
niscence. Perhaps  the  coincidence  that  our 
grandfathers  were  active  revolutionists  and 
abolitionists  in  the  olden  time — that  his, 
as  the  judge  of  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Massachusetts,  abolished  slavery  in  1773 
in  the  State — that  our  fathers  were  born  the 
same  year,  1782,  and  that  we  both  saw  the 
light  but  a  few  weeks  apart,  in  1819,  had 
something  to  do  with  both  our  minds  in  thus 
becoming  sympathetically  attached.  At  any 
rate  we  formed  resolutions  that  to  a  greater 
or  less  extent  affected  the  efforts  of  our  whole 
subsequent  lives.  In  those  plans  slavery  was 
to  be  abolished  in  some  way ;  national  and 
State  politics  were  to  bo  purified ;  the  basis 
of  munloipal  government  was  to  be  honor, 
Integrity  and  economy;  the  best  men  were  to 
have  place  and  position;  the  public  schools 
were  to  become  more  "technically  practi- 
cal" in  their  teachings ;  industrial  art  and 
labor  should  be  better  encouraged  and  pro- 
tected ;  temperance  should  be  enforced  and 
promoted  hy  all  proper  moral  and  legal  effort 
that  could  be  made  available, — with  many 
other  principles  of  political  economy  theo- 
retically laid  out. 

Lowell's  family,  collaterally,  at  least,  had 
been  foremost  In  the  promotion  of  the  cot- 
ton manufacture  in  New  England.  He  felt 
that  it  could  be  extended  to  advantage  South 
and  West.  He  became  theoretically  ac- 
quainted with  its  first  introduction  in  Eng- 
land and  Scotland,  and  particularly  with  the 
efforts  of  David  Dale,  Robert  Owen  and 
William  Allen  of  Lanark.  He  liked  their 
plan  of  schooling  their  operatives,  the  co- 
operative schemes  for  benefitting  their  help. 
He  did  not  like  the  socialistic  idea  of  com- 
munities, as  sinking  individuality  too  far,  by 
generalizing  the  duties  of  life  that  should  be 
personal  as  a  constant  spur  to  moral 
and  religious  activity.  In  1843  we  spent 
our  first  summer  vacation  together  with 
some  other  friends  at  Nantasket,  beach. 
William  W.  Story,  Lowell's  intimate  friend, 
was  one  of  the  guests.  George  Tyler  Bigelow 
and  George  T.  Curtis  came  thero  occasion- 
ally ;  James  White  and  two  sisters  and  the 
sister  of  Story,  whom  Mr.  Curtis  subsequent- 
ly married,  were  there  for  tho  season.  There 
were  also  there  representatives  of  the  high- 
est commercial  and  manufacturing  interests 
of  the  State,  which  with  some  teachers  and 
young  people,  mado  up  the  whole  number  of 
guests.  Lowell  was  then  engaged  to  Maria 
White,  whom  he  subsequently  married.  She 
was  a  most  boantlful  and  accomplished 
lady  —  somewhat  undemonstrative  and 
retiring,  more  so  than  her  sister, 
but  she  seemed  always  the  embodiment 
of  dignity  and  kindheartedness.  The  brother 
was  a  whole-souled,  thoroughly  practical 
gentleman — a  rank  abolitionist.  He  after- 
ward lost  his  life  mysteriously  ip  the  West., 
it  was  said,  in  efforts  to  assist  the 
fugitive  slaves  to  escape,  through  the 
underground  railroad  for  that  purpose. 
His  body  was  found  floating  near  the  beach 


of  Lake  Michigan.  He  was  the  son  of  "Abi- 
jah  White,  a  wealthy  citizen  of  Watertown. 

Story  was  then  trying,  as  was  Lowell,  to 
earn  a  living  at  the  practice  of  law.  Both 
failed  in  that  department.  Neither  of  them 
liked  the  profession.  Story  became  the  dis- 
tinguished sculptor,  and  Lowell  the  diplo- 
mat. Story  had  great  literary  talent  and 
quite  a  poetic  taste,  particularly  for  blank 
vers'i  and  the  heroics.  There  was  a  jealousy 
if  1  -well,  who  was  always  the  life  of  the 
gueststby  a  few  of  the  lords  of  the  manufactur- 
i  ig  Interests,  who  naturally  wero  aristocrats. 
They  felt  that  their  names  should  bo  at  tho 
head  of  the  list  of  American  manufacturers, 
and  never  lost  opportunities  to  place  them 
there.  Ou  tho  contrary  the  name  of  Lowell 
gravitated  there  through  its  own  volition 
alone.  Such  wero  disposed  to  sueer  at  tho 
"Whites  for  bringing  their  silver  forks,  not 
then  in  general  use,  as  being  an  affectation 
though  thej  all  were  as  unaffected  and  sim- 
ple in  habit  as  high-bred  custom  could 
guarantee. 

All  tho  guests  were  in  harmony  with  tho 
accustomed  athletic  sport*.  Kew  were  early 
risers  except  occasionally  Lowell  and  my- 
self, who  went  out  with  tho  fishermen  at 
three  for  cod  and  haddock,  returning  always 
by  breakfast  time  generally  well  loaded 
down  with  fish.  Mackerel  were  then  plenty 
In  the  bay,  and  Story,  with  Lowell  and  my- 
self, often  went  out,  making  gTeat  hauls. 
One  morning  Story  said  he  would  stop  in  a 
cleft  of  the  ledge  on  tho  point,  to  write  on 
his  Phi  Beta  Kappa  poem,  and  Lowell  and  I 
went  off  in  the  boats.  The  success  was 
such  that  Story  seeing  us  desired  to 
be  taken  on  board,  but  Lowell  would 
not  permit  him  to  como,  which  angered 
Story  somewhat.  Lowell  and  myself 
were  seated  directly  In  front  of  Story  when 
he  delivered  his  poem  at  Cambridge,  and  it 
was  plain  to  observe  the  change  of  style 
when  the  school  of  mackerel  jostled  the 
harmony  of  the  poem.  The  orator  looked  up 
and  gave  us  a  smile  and  then  went  on,  get- 
ting great  applause  at  the  end. 

One  morning  when  Lowell  and  myself 
were  going  towards  the  beach  we  heard 
screaming  and  saw  quite  a  commotion  in  the 
water  some  ways  out  from  the  shore.  We 
ran  for  and  launched  our  boat,  and  in  a 
short  time  were  through  the  surf.  Contin- 
ued screams  of  "A  shark!   a  shark  I"  came 

over  the  water,  and  we  speedily  rowed 
to  the  scene  of  activity.  Two  young 
ladies  who  were  expert  swimmers  were 
in  the  habit  of  going  out  sometimes  a  quar- 
ter of  a  mile  without  boat  or  escort,  and  this 
morning  became  surrounded  with  a  school  of 
menhaden,  among  which  a  mackerel-shark 
was  feasting,  sometimes  coining  near  enough 
to  be  clearly  seen  by  them.  When  told  what 
the  real  trouble  and  danger  was  they  de- 
clined assistance  from  us  and  struck  for  the 
shore,  which  they  soon  reached  with  perfect 
safety. 

One  evening,  just  before  sunset,  while 
Story,  Lowell  and  myself  were  bowling,  a 
man  came  np  asking  assistance.  Story  had  . 
the  last  roll,  and  Lowell  was  already  engaged 
in  talking  with  the  tramp  when  Stery  ap. 
peared.  Story  fixed  his  eyes  on  him  for  a 
moment,  and  then  told  him  plainly  that  be 
was  an  impostor,  and  that  he  [Story]  had 
seen  him  before  at  such  and  such  placet 
The   tramp    turned    pale,  and    started    off 


without  reply.  Story  remarked  to  me 
that  It  wu  fatal  for  a  man  to 
suffer  him  to  get  a  fall  view  ot  his  face' 
which  could  never  after  he  effaced  from  tils 
mind.  In  the  call  referred  to  it  had  been 
three  years  since  he  had  casually  met  the 
tramp,  and  them  bat  for  a  minute  or  two.  I 
have  often  called  this  to  mind  since  Story 
become  distinguished  as  a  sculptor,  as 
showing  a  native  talent  for  physiology. 

Lowell's  office  was  at  10  Court  street, 
Boston.  Ha,  like  many  other  lawyers  and 
good  men,  was  sometimes  short  of  money. 
One  morning  I  called  upon  him  and  he  was 
walking  the  floor  excitedly.  After  exchange 
of  salutations  he  looked  up  and  said  "Allen 
can  you  tell  me  how  and  where  I  can  earn  an 
honest  dollar?"  I  had  been  successful  and 
comparatively  independent  in  my  humble 
sphere  and  answered  that  I  could  tell 
him  where  be  could  get  a  hundred  if 
•  he  wished,  and  offered  to  supply  him 
with  ready  money.  ''That  is  not  what  I 
want,"  said  he.  "I  want  to  earn  some 
money."  There  were  then  associated  with 
us  a  few  mutual  friends,  who  strove  to  aid 
each  other  in  the  stern  conflict  of  life. 
Lowell  one  day  proposed  that  we  have  a 
name  for  our  club,  and  ha  furnished  one, 
'•The  Mutual  Admiration  Society."  Each 
member  informally  was  to  bring  in  bis 
friends  for  the  purpose  of  mutual  aid  and 
sympathy.  They  are  most  all  gone  now. 
Colonel  Ezra  Lincoln,  Lowell's  friend, 
was  an  engineer,  and  was  a  polished 
gentleman.  Ha  was  eves  active  in  busi- 
ness as  well  as  politics.  James  T.  Fields 
probably  had  the  moat  to  do  personally  with 
Lowell  In  regard  to  literary  matters.  When 
Mr.  Lowell  got  up  the  Paul  Morphy  demon- 
stration aa  a  tribute  to  the  *  champion 
chess  player  of  America,  a  banquet 
was  given  at  the  Revere  House.  There 
were  those  that  spoke  for  the  first  time  on 
such  an  occasion,  and  some  of  our  first  men 
broke  down,  including  Judge  Shaw,  Agassiz 
and  others,  Lowell  and  Fields  held  the  fort 
and  by  their  pleasantry  and  mirth  brought 
up  the  spirits  that  flagged  under  the  gravity 
and  seriousness  with  whioh  some  of  the  older 
guests  spoke. 

Lowell's  marriage  in  1844  changed  his  plans 
of  active  life  so  far  as  the  practise  of  the 
law  was  concerned.  His  literary  labors  be- 
came both  arduous  and  remunerative.  He 
always  claimed  that  every  man  should  really 
earn  his  own  living  Independently  of  others, 
and  this  has  been  his  own  and  most  vigorous 
plan  since  boyhood.  His  appointment  as 
professor  of  belles-lettres  at  Harvard  as  well 
lecturer  in  the  Law  School,  cut  off  the  op- 
portunity of  working  with  effect  upon  many 
ot  his  early  pet  theories;  but,  so  far  as  I 
know,  he  never  changed  much  In  his  ideas  of 
what  should  be,  but  only  as  to  what  practi- 
cally could  be  carried  out  under  them.  Many 
of  the  benevolent  and  philanthropic  societies 
originating  in  Boston  daring  the  last  forty 
years  he  had  sympathy  with,  and  aided 
directly  or  indireotly.  These  subjects  includ- 
ed art,  science,  mechanical  industries,  politi- 
cal economy  and  technology  as  a  method  of 
teaching,  and  many  other  purely  beneyolent 
organizations. 

The  war  changed  everything  around  him, 
and  death  and  other  circumstances  took 
from  him  the  most  active  of  those  that  in 
early  life  were   led  through  his  genius  and 


37 

activity  to  join  iu  plans  and  works  of  goneral 
reform.  After  the  war  he  became  a  man  of 
the  public,  and  served  it  faithfully  to  the 
end  of  his  days. 

*'  MBhy-TWM-s  have  passed  Blncii  thorn  was 
much  intimacy  of  association  between  us. 
Each  had  his  own  sphere  of  lifo,  its  duties 
and  cares  to  sustain,  and  my  own  had  been 
all-absorbing.  Onr  last  personal  meoting 
was  some  threo  years  since,  when  he  called 
at  tho  room  of  the  Webster  Historical  So- 
ciety. Wo  wero  then  old  men,  or  at  least 
were  fast  becoming  such.  More  than  twenty 
years  had  passed  since  wo  had  compnred 
notes.  Forty  odd  had  slid  by  since  thoso 
luminous  plans  of  early  manhood  had  been 
made  with  such  enthusiasm  aud  faith  to  gov- 
ern our  future;  they  contemplated  a  high 
state  of  mutual  improvement,  and  a  faithful 
disinterested  citizenship  beyond  ourselves, 
as  servants  of  the  country  we  were  to  repre- 
sent. What  had  we  accomplished?  Wo 
looked  at  each  other  with  clasped  hands, 
though  but  little  was  said.  A  tear  dropped 
from  Lowell's  eyes  as  he  gazed  into  mine. 
I  am  not  ashamed  to  admit  that  mine  re- 
sponded with  many  in. return.  We  planned 
to  meet  again,  bnt  never  did;  and  so  I 
parted  from  the  man  to  whom  I  was  most 
indebted  for  my  first  assurance  and  enthu- 
siastic encouragement  that  it  was  possible 
for  a  business  man  to  cultivate  a  taste  for 
letters  and  literary  associations  while  pursu- 
ing his  vocation  of  mechanical  or  mercantile 
labors.  STsrHsar  M.  Allen- . 


LOWELL'S  C0TEMP0RAR1ES 

Reminiscences,  by  Hon.  Stephen   M.  Allen. 
II. 


James  Russell  Lowell,  like  Daniel  Web- 
ster, at  eighteen  years  of  age  had  decided 
and  to  a  certain  extent  fixed  ideas  of  the  polit- 
ical economy  both  of  Europe  and  America. 
He  at  twenty-five  by  no  means  glorified 
England,  as  many  have  felt  that  he  did 
liberally  towards  the  last  of  his  life.  It  had 
not  occurred  to  me  that  he  had  changed, 
only  as  all  change  when  they  begin  to  see 
that  it  Is  quite  one  thing  to  have  glorious 
ideas  ot  government  with  men  and  things, 
and  the .  uses  to  which  they  should  be 
pot,  and"  another  to  be  able  to  see  them 
tally  carried  out  through  any  influence  we 
may  personally  exert  in  their  behalf.  To 
his  mind  then,  homely  expressed,  the 
British  Government  individualized  was 
more  of  a  bully  than  a  philanthropist.  In 
the  acquirement  of  her  Indian  territory  in 
the  East,  and  the  millions  of  benighted 
with  it,  coming  under  her  arbitrary  control, 
she  outraged  humanity  and  treated  them 
more  as  slaves  or  serfs  than  aa  freemen,  and 
never  lost  sight  of  the  pecuniary  advantage 
of  such  a  citizenship.  On  the  character  of  her 
warriors  and  statesmen,  of  the  influence  of 
the  East  India  Company  upon  civilization, 
Lowell  discoursed  in  his  younger  days  quite 
freely.  He  believed  that  both  Marlborough 
and  Chatham  had  "doubles"  within  them- 
selves of  which  they  never  were  conscious, 
but  which  made  their  lives  a  contradiction 
pt  misapplied  energies.  Warren  Hastings 
acted  like  a  robber  and  pirate,  and  Welling- 
ton as  a  legated  batcher.  He  appreciated 
Sheridan,  Burke  and  Fox,  but  deprecated  the 


small  amount  of  real  political  principle 
they  enunciated  for  posterity  applicable '  to 
a  growing  civilization  of  any  kind.  Their 
record  altogether  would  not  amount  to  that 
left  in  print  by  Daniel  Webster.  Pitt  he 
thought  a  precocious  ghoul,  whose  whole 
selfish  and  bigoted  acts  were  simple  trigs 
to  human  progress ,  fixing  a  pecuniary  debt 
upon  the  government,  that  would,  with  the 
costs  of  royalty,  drag  a  majority  of  the  people- 
down  to  permanent  poverty  and  suffering. 
Jeremy  Bentham  was  then  Lowell's  ideal  of 
a  practical  moralist,  whether  as  an  ex- 
pounder of  legal,  mercantile  or  social  juris- 
prudence. 

Robert  Owen  stood  at  the  head  of  coopera- 
tive industrial  reform.  It  was  always  inter- 
esting to  Lowell's  young  friends  to  see  with 
what  facility  he  could  turn  from  deep, 
serious  subjects  to  those  of  a  light  and 
jovial  character,  without  losing  the 
application  or  importance  of  either,  as  an 
impressive  fact,  or  making  the  universality  of 
life  a  common  subject  of  interest.  He  could 
alternately  be  the  gravest  of  the  grave,  or 
the  most  lolly  and  genial  associate,  without 
creating  a  hiatus.  One  always  felt  that 
there  was  such  proper  connection  between 
the  two  subjects,  as  he  treated  them,  as  to 
make  up  a  most  beautiful  and  harmonious 
whole.  Before  Lowell,  in  1844,  gave  name 
to  the  mutual  admiration  society,  as  men- 
tioned in  my  previous  letter,  there  had  been 
a  general  awakening  of  young  men  in  Boston 
to  the  importance  of  cooperating  in  various 
ways  to  aid  the  cause  of  successful  industry, 
education  and  morals.  These  were  brought 
together  by  him  so  for  as  he  practically  could 
do  under  the  circumstances  surrounding  each 
case. 

There  were  more  than  a  hundred  in  all 
that  thus  directly  and  indireotly  were  infor- 
mally brought  together  for  work.  The  gov- 
erning principle  was,  however,  to  be  that 
while  each  should  do  what  he  could  private- 
ly by  himself,  no  general  mention  should  be 
made  of  the  result  of  a  public  character. 
Lowell  was  equal  to  the  secret  booming  of 
such  effort,  so  far  as  to  keep  up  the  individ- 
ual courage  or  interest  of  each  worker  in  his 
sphere  of  action.  When  it  became  necessary 
to  disband  the  old  city  fire  department,  forty 
young  men  instantly  came  forward,  from 
all  social  and  business  oiroles,  to  man  each 
"Tub."  It  may  not  be  generally  known  at  this 
day  that  the  salaries  of  these  were  pledged  to 
build  churches,  or  be  disposed  of  in  charity, 
or  that  some  of  these  men  afterwards  were 
sent  to  Congress,  while  others  became  quite 
eminent  in  their  respective  professions. 

One  member  in  particular,  still  living,  a 
graduate  at  Harvard,  may  -be  mentioned  as 
doing  regular  duty  at  the  "tub,"  often  taking 
some  of  the  members  home  after  a  fire  to 
jgive  thorn  lessons  in  chemistry  or  physiology. 
JAt  a  later  day,  and  for  a  long  series  of  years 
'after,  he  was  the  successful  manager  of  the 
Lowell  Institute.  This  institution  has  been 
a  godsend  to  literary  culture  In  Boston,  as 
well  as  a  practical  art  school,  for  forty  years, 
where  the  poor  student  could  always  get  in- 
struction free  gratis.  Another  object  of  the 
clnb  was  the  establishment  of  medical  dis- 
pensaries where  the  poor  could  get  treatment 
and  medicine  free  from  charge.  Some  of 
these  have  been  in  successful  existence  and 
operation  for  forty  years.  "i"n  Licldent  con- 
nected with  the  establishment  of  ono 
of     these      will       long      ho     remembered 


by  the  writer,  who  was  tho  subject 
of  a  practical  joke  perpetrated  by  I>r.  "Web- 
ster, from  whom  he  took  a  few  lessons  in 
chemistry.  While  alone  in  the  dissecting- 
room  of  an  evening,  in  the  old  Mason-street 
Hospital,  where  there  were  on  the  tables  six- 
teen subjects  in  process,  the  key  was  turned 
upon  me  and  I  was  detained  for  an  hour  or 
two  before  the  door  was  opened.  It  was  my 
privilege  to  have  known  both  Dr.  "Webster 
and  Dr.  Parkman,  being  a  frequent  visitor 
at  both  their  houses,  having  charge  of  the 
ventilating  process  for  use  In  the  new  hospi- 
tal then  building.  I  cannot  pass  without  add- 
ing |my  protest  to  the  assertions  of  some 
that  Dr.  Parkman  was  an  avaricious,  hard 
man  upon  his  fellows.  It  was  not  so.  He 
had  his  eccentricities,  and  one  of  them  was 
being  very  exacting.  He  was,  however, 
a  most  benevolent,  kind-hearted  man. 
He  gave  his  whole  time  and  the 
use  of  his  money  for  aiding  the 
poor  and  needy.  He  was  one  of  the  best 
friends  the  mechanics  ever  had,  and  would 
loan  them  small  sums  «f  money,  on  indifferent 
security,  to  accommodate,  but  never  taking 
more  than  six  per  cent  Interest.  Lowell  did 
not  like  him  very  well  until  he  learned  the 
real  character  of  the  man.  Among  the  old 
citizens  of  Boston  who  deeply  sympathized 
with  the  young  active  members  of  the  soci- 
ety some  of  them  before  it  had  name, 
were  the  elder  Nathaniel  Bowditch,  Thomas 
Perkins,  ana  Jonathan  Mason.  They  soon 
passed  away.  Of  those  younger,  few  of 
whom  are  now  living  were  Charles  Scud- 
der,  Stephen  Fairbanks,  John  Benson, 
Frederick  D.  Allen,  James  W.  Converse, 
Franklin  Haven,  Henry  W.  Dntton,  Charles 
G.  Greene  and  Daniel  Safford,  with  Mr.  Park- 
man  and  many  others  who  contributed  to 
different  enterprises. 

One  of  the  early  enterprises  they  patron- 
ized was  starting  a  charity  Sunday  school  to 
take  in  poor  children,  with  an  auxiliary 
society  for  clothing  such  as  could  not  other- 
wise get  suitable  garments  to  wear.  This 
numbered  some  seventy-five  young  boys, 
many  of  whom  were  reclaimed  and  educated 
and  subsequently  held  good  positions '  here 
and  in  the  West.  One  of  them  became  mayor 
of  Cambridge,  one  is  the  present  postmaster 
in  a  large  Western  city.  The  second  superin- 
tendent of  this  school  was  a  young  lawyer,  a 
graduate  of  Cambridge  and  a  friend  of  Low- 
ell's. Boston  was  small  forty  years  ago,  and 
the  United  States  had  but  a  small  popula- 
tion compared  to  the  present.  The 
ideas  of  the  mass  of  the  people  were 
▼try  different*  A  young  man  that  was 
known  to  smoke  in  those  days  was  looked 
upon  as  unfortunately  contracting  a  perni- 
cious habit.  A  fine  of  five  dollars  was  the 
penalty  for  smoking  in  the  street.  Lowell 
was  always  fond  of  smoking,  however.  In 
the  winter  it  was  a  common  practice  for  some 
of  the  church  dignitaries  to  hold  morning 
prayer  meetings,  Deacon  Benson's  bouse, 
corner  of  Federal  and  Charming  streets,  was 
a  popular  resort  for  that  purpose.  The  Mas- 
sachusetts Charitable  Mechanics  Association 
and  Amos  Baker  had  evening  schools  for 
apprentices,  and  the  Mercantile  Library  As- 
sociation gave  public .  lectures  free.  Lowell 
patronized  the  latter  as  did  many  of  hts 
friends.  E.  P.  Whipple  and  J.  T.  Fields 
often  gave  them  lectures. 

Many  of  the   poor   foreign-born   working 


38 
men  had  very  poor  accommodations  for  liv- 
ing. Many  resided  in  basements,  and  ,  a 
movement  was  made  for  their  relief,  which 
resulted  In  the  erection  of  a  large  number  of 
comfortable  dwellings.  This  was  accom- 
plished through  the  indirect  and  direct  aid 
of  the  society.  The  sanitary  condition  of 
Boston  was  one  of  those  questions  that  en- 
gaged a  great  deal  of  attention, and  Lowell  be- 
came much  Interested  in  the  causa  The 
city  pf  Boston  was  urged  to  lay  out  more 
parks  and  sell  lands  at  a  reduced  price. 
Chester  Park  was  enlarged,  and  all 
the  streets  south  to  Buggies  street 
in  Boxbury  were  raised  and  restricted 
to  what  was  called  the  dry  dock  grade  at 
Charlestown,  placing  them  above  tide  water. 
This  was  done  entirely  through  the  influ- 
ence of  members  of  the  society.  Daniel  N. 
Haskell,  editor  of  the  Transcript,  was  a 
member,  and  published  a  gTeat  deal  of  mat- 
ter in  aid  of  the  movement  in  that  paper. 
The  Artists'  Association  was  organized  in 
Boston  in  1841,  with  a  great  number  of  dis- 
tinguished patrons,  in  which  Lowell  with 
others  of  his  friends  took  great  interest,  i 
Two  of  the  artists,  Carleton  and  Holllngs- 
wortb,  became  attached  to  the  Lowell  Jnsti-' 
tnte  as  teachers  and  remained  there  during 
their  lives. 

T.  Buchanan  Bead  came  with  letters  from 
Cincinnati  and  with  an  original  painting  of 
General  Harrison  which  was  his  first  great 
effort  of  the  kind.  He  was  intioduced  to 
Chester  Harding  and  other  artists  and  sub- 
sequently to  Lowell,  and  became  a  great 
favorite  with  all.  His  appearance  in  these 
days  was  that  of  a  light-complexioned,  small- 
sized  boy  of  eighteen,  though  he  had  the 
character,  when  animated,  of  a  man  of  thirty 
years.  Unfortunately  his  tastes  as  criticised 
by  some  wero  considered  too  versatile  for 
him  to  succeed  well  as  a  painter.  Harding 
was  one  of  the  members,  and  came  to  me  one 
morning  quite  excited  after  reading  a  poem 
of  Bead's,  then  published  for  the  •  first 
time  by  the  Mercantile  Library  Asoocia- 
tion,  before  which  it  had  been  delivered, 
and  begged  me,  if  I  had  any  influences  over 
Bead,  to  "entreat  him  to  stick  to  his  crayons" 
and  let  poetry  alone.  Lowell  did  not  think 
so,  bnt  believed  a  man  might  be  both  painter 
and  poet.  Bead's  painting  aud  poem  of 
Sheridan's  Bide  is  an  evidence  of  the  correct- 
ness of  his  judgment.  Bead  went  to  Rome 
with  letters  to  Story,  with  whom  ho  became 
quite  intimate,  bnt  returned  home  and  died. 
The  Artists'  Association  was  well  patron- 
ized for  a  time  by  the  public;  but  few 
of  the  members  are  now  llviug.  HeaJy  had 
been  one  of  of  Harding's  young  pupils 
who  afterward  went  to  Europe  and 
painted  Louis  Phillippe.  On  returning 
to  Boston  he  was  encouraged  by  some  of  tho 
Boston  merchants  to  make  t\n  historical  pic- 
ture of  Webster's  answer  to  J.Iayne,  and 
did  so  aftor  four  years'  tabor.  vVEeTTddTHr 
it" -was  sometime  before  he  could  realize 
upon  it  and  he  became  very  poor  and  dis- 
couraged. The  city  hod  offered  83000  for  it. 
One  of  Lowell's  friends  offered  34000,  though 
he .  did  not  feel  able  to  buy  it.  The  city 
then  offered  85000  and  got  it.  It  is  now  the 
principal  attractive  painting  in  Faneuil  Hall 
and  is  probably  destined  to  remain  there  for 
all  time. 

Boss  Winans  was  a  rich  and  very  eucess- 
ful  railroad  and  locomotive-builder  of  Balti- 
more. He  took  with  other  friends  the  contract 


to  build  the  railroad  from  St.  Petersburg 
to  Moscow,  and  came  to  Boston  for  the  as- 
sistance of  engineers.  Colonel  William  R. 
Lee,  a  graduate  of  West  Point,  was  then 
superintendent  of  the  Boston  &  Providence 
Railroad  and  gave  him  support.  Major 
Whistler  also  became  connected  with  the 
enterprise.  I  think  it  was  Colonel  Lee  who 
first  suggested  the  starting  of  evening  schools 
in  Russia  along  the  line  of  the  road,  where 
the  young  Russians  could  be  taught  mechan- 
ical work  and  engineering  in  connection  with 
ordinary  studies.  Many  young  mechanics 
of  Boston  were  invited  to  go  to  Russia  as  in- 
structors— some  did  go,  and  enough  to  make 
the  system  a  success.  Lowell  afterward  be- 
came much  interested  in  the  matter. 

General  H.  B.  Sargent,  a  friend  of  Lowell, 
was  the  first  in  his  class  at  Harvard,  and  ono 
of  the  most  brilliant  students  in  the  Law 
School  during  my  membership.  It  was 
wholly  through  Lowell's  influence  that  I 
read  law.  Many  of  the  students  distin- 
guished themselves  in  after  life.  Rutherford 
B.  Hayes  became  president  of  the  United 
States,  Judge  Richardson  became  secretary 
of  the  treasury,  Anson  Burlingame  minister 
both  to  China  and  Russia.  Governor  Arnold, 
Judge  Lowell,  the  two  Parkinans,  Nathan 
Morse,  Bobcrt  Codman,  Ebenezer  W. 
Stone  were  members  of  the  class.  General 
Sargent  was  intimate  with  Lowell,  and 
wrote  an  essay  some  thirty-five  years 
ago  upon  the  labor  question  which 
pleased  Lowell  very  much.  He  took  the 
laborers'  side  of  the  question  and  subse- 
quently interested  himself  in  building  bouses 
for  the  working  classes.  The  Legislature  of 
1651  brought  together  many  young  men  that 
became  reformers  and  that  joined  in  organiz- 
ing the  Republican  party  of  Massachusetts 
in  1854.  The  leaders  were  self-made  men. 
George  S.  Boutwell  was  elected  governor. 
Henry  Wilson,  president  of  the  Senate ;  Na- 
thaniel P.  Banks,  Speaker  of  the  House; 
Amasa  Walker,  secretary  of  State.  There 
was  a  great  deal  of  talent  In  the  Legislature 
of  that  year.  Ezra,  Lincoln,  Caleb  Cushing, 
B.  B.  Curtis,  Sidney  Bartlet,  John  Mills, 
General  Whitney,  James  M.  Keath,  William 
Aspinwall,  F.  O.  Prince,  Theodore  Dunne, 
Henry  Gardner,  Otis  Kimball,  William 
Schooler  and  G.  M.  Wightman  were 
members. 

At  the  funeral  of  Daniel  Webster  at  Marsh- 
field  in  October,  1852,  there  were  many  who 
bad  grown  rich  in  property  and  honors, 
through  the  influence  of  Webster,  some  of 
whom  had  gone  back  on  him,  but  were  very 
prominent  actors  in  the  services.  The  young 
Governor  Boutwell  was  there  representing 
the  State.  A  few  of  the  old  political  liners, 
who  had  before  been  in  the  habit  of  first 
naming  the  candidates  for  governor,  but  who 
had  been  disappointed  in  their  choice,  were 
disposed  to  give  the  cold  shoulder  to  the 
governor.  He  conducted  himself  with  a 
great  deal  of  dignity,  as  usual,  and  paid  no 
particular  attention  to  them,  more  than  to 
the  thousands  of  honest  but  humble  people 
prosent  on  the  occasion. 

The  organization  of  the  Republican  party 
at  Worcester,  July  20,  1854,  where  it  first 
received  its  name  in  Massachusetts,  is  a 
matter  of  written  history.  It  was  purely  ac- 
cidental that  I  was  called  upon  to  preside 
over  that  convention  for  the  most  of  the  day 
and  through  all  of  its  business  action.  It 
adjourned  to  Sept.  7,  when  Robert  Rantoul, 


Pr.,  presided.  John  A.  Andrew  wrote  the 
resolrttions  and  Charles  Sumner  spoko  for 
over  an  hour.  The  conventions  of  18"»G, 
Dominating  Fremont;  the  Brooks  outrage 
upon  Sumner;  the  Burlingame  duol;  threats 
of  Brooks  to  attack  "Wilson  and  Banks,  who 
xjjfas  then  Speaker,  are  all  matters  of  history. 
rflr.  Lowell  was  active  in  all  those  measures 
In  his  quiet  way,  but  exercised  a  powerful 
influence  through  others.  As  to  my  own 
humble  effort  in  all  theso  things  I  can  only 
say  that  Lowell  prompted  me  to  action  more 
than  any  other  person.  The  war  brought 
freedom  to  the  slaves  and  established  that 
emancipation  which  we  in  early  life  felt 
could  he  doun  with  money.  Alas!  for  human 
selfishness;  thousands  of  millions  of  dollars, 
and  millions  of  lives,  directly  and  indirectly, 
were  sacrificed  to  this  end. 

Strphrn  M.  Allen. 


LOWELL'S    CONTEMPORARIES. 

2b  the  Editor  of  the  Transcript :  In  a  re 
cent  issue  of  your  paper  appeared  a  communi- 
cation, signed  "C.  O.  Stickney,"  wherein  the 
writer  names  several  contemporaries  of  ,Iamc« 
Russell  Lowell,  and  states  that,  with  one  excej> 
tion,  they  have  all  passed  orer  to  the  "othci 
shore."  Allow  me  to  say  to  him,  and  to  distant 
friends  who  may  be  misled  by  this  assertion, 
that  another  shiidng  exception  oxists  in  the 
person  of  Dr.  Thomas  W.  Parsons,  svhon*  we 
still  have  among  us,  and  whose  tribute  to 
Lowell  in  a  recent  nnmbor  of  the  Transcript- 
roost  tendeT  and  beautiful  —  antedating  youi 
correspondent's  communication,  ought  not  to 
have  escaped  his  notice. 

Fully  recovered  from  a  recent  illness,  the 
doctor  lives  to  cheer  his  many  friends  and  to 
frequent  his  much-loved  haunts  of  Scituato  and 
Wayland  W.  R.  W. 

Concord,  A  uy.  2-4.  fWivJiJLt«i«-w*J 

MY    LOVE. 

Not  as  all  other  women  are 

Is  she  that  to  my  soul  is  dear: 
Her  glorious  fancies  come  from  far. 
Beneath  the  silver  evening-star. 

And  yet  her  heart  is  ever  near. 

Great  feelings  hath  she  of  her  own,  s 
Which  lesser  6ouls  may  never  kno,»: 

God  giveth  them  to  her  alone. 

And  sweet  they  are  as  any  ton* 
Wherewith  the  wind  may  choose  to  blow. 

Yet  in  herself  she  dwelleth  not, 
Although  no  home  were  half  so  fair: 

No  simplest  duty  is  forgot; 

Life  hath  no  dim  and  lowly  spot 
That  doth  not  in  her  sunshine  share. 

She  doeth  little  kindnesses. 

Which  most  leave  undone  or  despise; 
For  naught  that  sets  one  heart  at  ease, 
And  giveth  happiness  or  peace. 

Is  low-esteemed  in  her  eyes. 

She  hath  no  scorn  of  common  things. 
And  though  she  seem  of  other  birth. 

Round  us  her  heart  entwines  and  clings. 

And  patiently  she  folds  her  wings 
To  tread  the  humble  paths  of  earth. 

Blessing  she  is:  God  made  ber  so. 

And  deeds  of  week-day  holiness 
Fall  from  her  noiseless  as  the  snow; 
Nor  hath  she  ever  chanced  to  know 

That  aught  were  easier  than  to  blest. 

She  is  most  fair,  and  thereunto 

Her  life  doth  rightly  harmonize; 
Feeling  or  thought  that  was  not  true 
Ne'er  made  less  beautiful  the  blue 

Unolonded  heaven  of  her  eyes. 


39 

She  is  a  woman — one  in  whom 

The  spring-time  of  her  childish  years 
Hath  never  lost  its  fresh  perfume. 
Though  knowing  well  that  life  hath  room 
For  many  blights  and  many  tears. 

I  love  her  with  a  love  as  still 

As  a  broad  river's  peaceful  might. 
Which,  by  high  tower  and  lowly  mill. 
Goes  wandering  at  its  own  free  will. 
And  yet  doth  ever  flow  aright. 

And  on  its  full,  deen  breast  serene, 

Like  quiet  isles  my  duties  lie; 
It  flows  around  them  and  between, 
And  makes  them  fresh  and  fair  and  green. 

Ssvoet  homes  wherein  to  live  and  die. 

[James  Russell  LowelL 


Y,    AUGUST    13,    1891 


a  news  agency  in  this  city.  In  which,  referring  to 
tho  tieath  of  Mr.  James  Rnssell  Lowell,  ho  says, 
"The  English  Authors'  Society  sends  its  deep- 
est regrets  and  sympathy  with  Americans  on 
the  death  of  that  great  writer,  its  friend,  James 
Russell  I-owoll." 


MINISTER    LOWELL    IN    LONDON. 


NOT     AMERICA'S     ALONE. 


England      Equally      Laments 
Lowell's    Death. 

Words  of    Love  and  Esteem  Spoken 
on   Every  Side. 


He  Was  Always  on  the 
the  Best  in  Life. 


Side  of 


London,  Aug.  13.  The  Times  says:  "The 
death  of  Mr.  Lowell  is  probably  more  keenly 
and  widely  felt  in  England  than  would  bo  that 
of  any  other  American,  or,  Indeed,  of  any  man 
not  a  fellow-countryman.  With  his  death  there 
passes  into  history  a  really  remarkable  mind, 
whose  reputation  will  grow  with  time.  Corrupt 
politicians  hated  him,  but  he  goes  to  the  gravo 
mourned  by  all  that  is  best  in  America,  and 
amid  the  heartfelt  regard  and  admiration  of 
England." 

The  Standard  says:  "America  may  claim  the 
distinction  of  his  birth,  hut  his  famo  belongs  to 
the  wider  republic  speaking  the  English 
tongue." 

The  Daily  News  says:  "Mr.  Lowoll  will  be  la- 
mented in  England  not  less  than  In  America. 
He  was  ever  a  fighter  and  always  on  tho  side  of 
truth,  honesty,  justice,  freedom,  morcy  and 
peace." 

All  the  other  London  morning  newsrnvers 
contain  similar  comments  and  long  obituary 
notices. 

Tribute  of  Bret  Harte. 

Bret  Harte  has  written  concerning  the  death 
of  James  Russell  Lowell,  the  American  poet,  as 
follows:  "To  my  pride,  as  an  American,  in  the 
frank-  admiration  and  living  appreciation 
shown  of  Lowell's  Intellect  and  character  per- 
sonally heie,  I  have  to  add  my  own  expression 
of  sorrow  al  the  loss  of  one  of  tho  most  fastidi- 
ous and  cultivated  professors  in  my  calling, 
and  one  of  its  gentlest  vet  manliest  critics." 

English  Authors'  Society  Sends  Kegrcts. 
Mr.  Walter   Besant,  the  well  known    writer 
and  novelist,  and  first  chairman  of  the  execu- 
tive committee  of  the  Incorporated  Society  of 
Anthors,  has  sent  a  telegram  from  Dartmoor  to 


When  Mr.Lowell  was  Minister  to  the  Court 
of  St.  James,  the  London  "World  included  in 
its  series  of  "Celebrities  at  Home"  areadable 
sketob  of  the  distinguished  literatteur, 
which  is  appended : 

An  unpretending  house  in  a  quiet  London 
square,  painted  that  dull  red  color — an  Amer- 
ican importation,  by  the  way — with  which 
wo  are  now  so  famllar  In  the  western  dis- 
tricts of  the  metropolis.  It  is  the  residence 
of  a  minister  who  represents  the  vast  Re- 
public of  the  West,  over  which  the  sun  takes 
four  hours  to  rise,  and  which  stretches  from 
the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific.  There  Is  nothing 
atiibassodorial  in  his  surroundings.  The 
arras  of  the  United  States  are  nowhere  con- 
spicuously emblazoned,  as  would  be  those 
of  somo  petty  German  State.  Mr.  Lowell 
is  not  approached  through  an  antechamber 
filled  with  secretaries  and  gilded  at- 
tache's. You  are  introduced  by  a  manservant 
out  of  livery  into  a  little  room  on  the  ground 
door  Rt  the  back  of  the  house,  which  con- 
tains a  few  well-filled  bookshelves,  a  writ- 
ing-table strewed  with  papers  and  letters, 
while  a  few  simple  engravings  here  and 
there  cover  tho  walls.  Seated  in  an  easy 
chair  reading  is  a  slight  spare  man  with  a 
profusion  of  curling  hair  and  a  luxuriant 
beard  which  is  almost  white.  His  manner 
;is  he  rises  to  greet  you  is  singularly  quiet 
and  unaffected,  and  though  he  lias  made  the 
Yankee  rtialcct  of  New  England  immortal, 
yon  cannot  detect  in  the  tones  of  his  voice 

the  slightest  trace  of  Americanism.  He  has 
long  passed  his  sixtieth  birthday,  having 
been  born  in  the  same  year  as  Queen  Victo- 
ria, yet  it  is  impossible  to  regard 
him  as  old.  He  reminds  you  of  noth- 
ing so  much  as  the  beautiful  Indian 
summer  of  his  native  land,  differ- 
ingonly  from  midsummer  in  the  circumstance 
that  the  subdued  tints  of  the  foliage,  and  the 
still  dreamy  air,  tell  you  Instinctively  that 
they  are  the  heralds  of  coming  winter. 
Taking  a  well-colored  little  meerschaum 
from  a  rack  he  proceeds  to  smoke,  and  bands 
his  visitor  a  box  of  cigarettes.  Leaning 
back  then  in  his  chair,  he  turns  toward  you 
Ids  full,  deep,  gray  eyes  at  once  thoughtful 
and  penetrating,  and  seems  more  inclined  to 
listen  than  to  talk.  The  conversation  drifts 
from  one  subject  to  another,  and  it  is  only 
when  some  chord  which  Interests  him  is 
struck  that  you  catch  a  momentary  glimpso 
of  tho  varied  knowledge,  the  rich  cultivation, 
the  genius  and  power  which  have  made 
for  him  so  great  a  name  on  both 
aides  of  the  Atlantic.  Those  who  are 
familiar  with  Mr.  Lowell's  life  know  that  he 
has  not  only  shed  a  brilliance  over  the  New 
World,  but  also  done  much  to  cement  the 
bonds  of  union  between  the  Old  World  and 
the  New.  As  a  poet  he  can  hardly  be  con- 
sidered inferior  to  Longfellow,  though  far 
less  widely  known  and  read;  while  as  a 
humorist  he  must  take  his  place  in  history 
with  great  masters  of  wit  and  satire  like 
Swift  and  Thackeray.  His  modest  house  in 
Lowndes  square  seems  but  a  resting-place  by 
the  way.  His  home  is  in  the  beautiful 
suburbs  of  Cambridge,  in  his  native  Massa- 
chusetts, on  the  banks  of  the  sluggish 
Charles.  Through  all  his  wanderings  in 
many  lands,  beautiful  Elniwood,  the  home 
of  his  father,  tho  place  of  his  birth,  the  grave 
of  his  children,  and  the  spot  where  sixty 
years  of  his  life  have  been  spent  among  his 
books,  seems  always  to  claim  him  as  its  own. 
Mr.  Lowell  comes  of  a  good  old  English 
stock.  His  ancestors  emigrated  from  Bris- 
tol in  1639,  and    settled  in  New    England. 


Many  of  the  Lowella  were  foremost  men  in 
the  annals  of  their  adopted  country.  His 
grandfather  was  a  member  of  the  convention 
which  framed  the  constitution  of  Massachu- 
setts and  excluded  slavery  from  its  borders. 
His  father  was  a  distinguished  Congregation- 
alist  minister,  and  a  year  before  too  poet's 
birth  he  purchased  Elmwood,  a  plain  struc- 
ture of  wood,  whose  want  of  plcturesque- 
ness  Is  relieved  by  the  fine  timber 
In  which  it  Is  embosomed.  In  the 
library,  whioh  contains  a  large  and  choice 
collection  of  books,  there  hangs  a  portrait  by 
Page- of  Mr.  Lowell  in  his  youth.  The  dark 
auburn  hair,  parted  in  the  middle,  falls  in 
thick  curls  over  a  white  collar  thrown  back 
loosely  from  his  neok.  There  is  a  dreamy 
poetry  In  the  deep-set  gray  eyes,  and 
the  expression  is  one  of  almost  mournful  sad- 
ness. One  may  well  marvel  .that  the  "Big- 
low  Papers"  could  have  been  produced  by 
the  grave,  melancholy  looking  youth,  who 
might  have  sat  as  a  model  for  Goethe's 
Faust.  The  coat  of  coarse  brown  cloth  he 
wears  gives  a  3pice  of  Puritan  simplicity  to 
the  portrait.  In  an  upper  room,  which  was 
the  poet's  study  in  his  father's  lifetime,  there 
hang  touchingly  over  a  picture  frame  some 
pairs  of  baby's  shoes ;  and  from  the  window 
may  be  seen  the  pretty  wooded  slopes  of 
Mount  Auburn  Cemetery,  the  last  resting- 
place  of  the  little  feet;  all  his  children,  but 
one  daughter,  having  died  in  infancy.  It  was 
this  which  gave  the  tinge  of  sadness  to  much 
of  his  early  poetry : 

"As  a  twig  trembles  which  a  bird 
Lights  on  to  sinsr,  then  leaves  unbent, 

So  is  my  memory  thrilled  and  stirred  : 
I  only  knew  she  came  and  went." 

The  death  »of  his  children  was  followed, 
after  nine  years  of  domestic  happiness,  by 
the  I033  of  his  wife,  referred  to  in  those 
touching  lines  of  Longfellow: 

"  T  was  at  thy  door,  O  friend !   and  not  at  mine 
The  angel  with  the  amaranthine  wreath. 

Pausing,  descended,  and  with  voice  divine 
■Whispered  a  word   that  had   a  sound  like 
Death. 

Then  fell  upon  the  house  a  sudden  gloom. 

A  shadow  on  those  features  fair  and  thin. 
And  softly  from  that    hushed   and  darkened 
room 

Two  angals  issued  where  but  one  went  in." 

Mr.  Lowell  has  shown  himself  to  be  a 
WTiter  of  graceful,  powerful  and  versatile 
prose,  which  alone  would  have  made  the 
reputation  of  a  lesser  man.  His  lectures  on 
the  great  poets  of  the  world  are  models  of 
criticism,  and  display  at  once  the  brilliant 
powers  of  his  vigorous  mind,  and  the  stores 
of  varied  knowledge  acquired  in  years  of 
thoughtful,  patient  study,  and  extended 
travel  in  the  lands  of  the  Old  World.  His 
more  serious  poems  are  full  of  graceful 
imagery,  of  noble  thoughts  clothed  in  noble 
words,  while  some  of  them  possess  the  im- 
passioned fire  of  true  poetic  genius.  They 
want,  perhaps,  that  something  which  Long- 
fellow s  Muse  possesses ;  or  possibly  it  is 
that  the  older  poet  had  gained  the  popular 
ear  before  the  younger  one  became  known, 
and  his  melodies  fell  on  somewhat  un- 
heeding ears,  so  long  accustomed  to  the 
familiar  strains  of  the  old  master.  But  it 
is  on  his  marvellously  humorous  prose  and 
still  more  marvellous  poetry  that  Lowell's 
fame  will  rest,  and  he  can  well  afford -not  to 
be  placed  by  posterity  in  the  first  rank  of  the 
poets  of  sentiment.  A  distinguished  modern 
writer  has  said  that  if  you  want  to  see  the 
England  of  the  seventeenth  century,  you 
must  go  to  New  Euglandj  and  Mr.  Lowell 
has  told  ns  that  if  we  want  to  listen  to  the 
English  which  was  spoken  in  the  davs  of  the 
Stuarts,  we  must  go  still  to  New  England, 
where  it  lingers  yet  in  such  places  as  the  re- 
mote districts  of  Massachusetts.  Railroads 
are  fast  destroying  their  Old  World  charac- 
ter, and  the  Yankee  speech  is  being  grubbed 
up  by  the  school  marms  as  diligently  as  the 
thistle  in  Canada :  but  in  the  "Biglow  Pa- 
pers" it  is  enshrined  forever,  like  the  fly  in 
amber;  and  peers  and  country  baronets 
whose  titles  were  purchased  from  needy 
James  I.  can  read  therein  in   what   fashion 


40 

their  fathers  spake.    The  first  and  by  far  the 
best  series  of  these  remarkable  papers  were 
written  at  the  time  of  the  Mexican  War.  They 
are  designed  to  expose  the  iniquity  of  a  con- 
flict undertaken  in  the  interest  of  slave-hold- 
ing States,  as  a  means  of  extending  the  area 
of  slavery.    No  satirical  pieces  of  modern 
days  approach  them   except,  perhaps,    the 
"Letters  of  Major  Downing."  "Sam  Slick," 
or  some  of  Hood's  inimitable  verses.    Hosea 
Biglow,   Rev.  Homer  Wilbur  and  Birdofre- 
dum  Sawin  are  characters  which  may  take 
their    place,    as    portraits    from    life,    with 
Squire    Western    or    Dr.  Primrose.     These 
papers  are  a  mixture  of  poetry  and  prose, 
written  in  the  broadest  Yankee  dialect  of 
New  England,  interspersed  with  imaginary 
notices  of  the  press,  designed  to  satirize  tho 
ludicrous  iguorance  and   absurdity  of   pre- 
vailing    American      newspaper      criticism. 
Many  of  the  words   and  expressions  in  the 
"Biglow  Papers"  have  become  a  part  of  th« 
English  language  as  it  is  spoken  in  Americj 
today.      At  the  time  they  were  in    everjj 
body's  mouth,  and  became  cant  phrases,  liW 
the  "What,   never?"  of   "Pinafore,"  or  tH 
"Why,  cert'nlyl"  of  "The  Colonel." 
"But  John  P. 
Robinson  ho 
Sex  he  wunt  vote  fer  Guvener  B." 
crossed  the  Atlantic,  and  became,  with  loci 
variations,  a  catch-song  in    the    streets    < 
English  towns.  Whoever  reads  these  wonde- 
ful  sketches,  so  full  of  humor  and  wit,   an 
keen  political  satire  from  which  men  6hran. 
as  from  a  scalpel,  and  is  able  to  understant 
something  of  the  point  of  the   allusions,   ex- 
periences a  sensation  he  will  never  forget. 
Here  is  a  description  of  a  Yankee  orator,  in- 
imitable in  its  truth  to  nature,   and   which, 
mutatis  mutandis,  might  be  applied  to  some 
parliamentary  orators  we  wot  of,  Irish  and 
otherwise : 

Subjick  stalted;  'expanded;  delay  ted;  ex- 
tended. Pump  lively.  Subjick  staited  ag'in, 
so's  to  avide  all  mistaiks.  Ginnle  remarks: 
continooed:  kerried  on;  pushed  furder;  kind  o' 
gin  out  Subjick  re  -staited :  dielooted:  stirred 
up  permiscoous.  Pump  ag  in.  Gits  back  to 
where  he  sot  out.  Can't  seem  to  stay  thair. 
Ketches  into  Mr.  Sea  ward's  hair.  Breaks  loose 
ag'in,  an'  staits  his  subjick ;  stretches  it ;  turns 
it:  folds  it;  onf olds  it ;  folds  it  ag'in  so 's 't  no 
one  can't  find  it.  Argoos  with  an  imedginary 
bean  that  ain't  aloud  to  say  nothin'  in  repleye. 
Gives  him  a  real  good  dressin',  an'  is  settysfide 
he's  rite.  Gits  into  Johnson's  hair.  No  use 
tryin'  to  git  into  his  head.  Gives  it  up.  Hez  to 
stait  his  subjick  ag'in:  doos  it  back'ards,  side- 
ways, eendways,  criss-cross,  bevellin',  no  ways. 
Gits  finely  red  on  it.  Concloods.  Concloods 
more.  Reads  some  xtrax.  Sees  his  subjick  a- 
nosiu'  round  arter  him  ag'in.  Tries  to  avide  It. 
Wun't  do.  Ma-states  it.  Can't  conjectur'  no 
other  plaw8able  way  of  staytin'  on  it.  Trie? 
pump.  No  fx.  Finely  concloods  to  conclood- 
Yeels  the  rlore. 

Underlying  this  satire,  of  the  broadest  an> 
most  farcical    kind,  runs  a    current  of  tha 
strong    religious    feeling  which    everywhei 
distinguishes    Mr.    Lowell's    writings.      A 
every    turn    we    catch    glimpses  of  that  olcl 
Puritan    faith,  with    its    simple  fervid    zeal, 
which  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  planted  on   New 
England  shores. 

Mr.  Lowell's  life  has  been  an  eventful  one, 
the  milestones  on  the  road  being,  for  the 
most  part,  tho  dates  of  the  many  volumes 
which  owe  their  birth  to  him.  His  long  resi- 
dence at  Elmwood  was  unbroken  save  by  a 
year  or  two's  European  travel.  His  distin- 
guished services  to  tho  Northern  cause  at  the 
time  of  the  Civil  War,  as  an  able  opponent  of 
slavery,  were  recognized  in  1874  by  the  offer 
of  the  Russian  ministry.  This  was  declined, 
and  In  the  same  year  the  dogree  of  doctor 
of  laws  was  conferred  upon  him  by 
the  sister  University  on  the  Cam — an  honor 
perhaps  more  appreciated  than  expatriation 
to  the  court  of  the  czar.  In  1877  he  accepted 
the  mission  to  Spain,  and  two  years  later,  on 
the  withdrawal  of  Mr.  Welsh,  he  was  trans- 
ferred to  London.  Seldom  has  an  American 
minister  been  received  in  this  country  witli 
more  cordiality,  or  become  more  generally 
popular  than.  Mr.  Lowell.  The  University 
of  St.  Andrews  has  bestowed  the  highest 
distinction  in  her  gift  upon  the  successor 
of  Longfellow  at  Harvard.    Few  men  could 


do  greater  honor  than  Mr.  Russell  Lowell  to 
the  position  of  lord  rector  of  that  ancieut 
scholastic  foundation.  His  election  will  bo 
regarded,  in  the  land  of  his  birth,  not  only  as 
a  high  compliment  to  one  of  America's  most 
distinguished  men  of  letters,  but  as  a  grace- 
ful act  of  international  courtesy  on  the  part 
of  that  old  land  which  he  is  proud  to  own  as* 
the  fatherland  of  boaxaoa. 


Robert    X.    fi.    Lowell. 

Robert  Traill  Sponco  Lowell,  brother  of  James 
Russell  Lowell,  died  yesterday  morning  at  his 
homo  in  Schenectady.  N.  Y.,  within  less  than  a 
month  of  his  seventy-fifth  anniversary.  Ho 
was  a  faithful  clergyman  of  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Church  and  a  man  of  letters  of  no 
mean  order,  both  as  poet  and  as  novelist, 
having  earned  a  title  to  remembrance  by 
"The  New  Priest  in  Concoption  Bay,"  "A 
Raft  That  No  Man  Made,"  and  "Stories  from 
an  Old  Dutch  Town."  Mr.  Lowell  was  born 
October  8,  1816,  in  Boston,  where  his  lather, 
Rev.  Charles  Lowell,  was  pastor  of  the  old 
West  Church.  He  was  educated  at  the  Round 
Hill  School  oi  George  Bancroft  and  Joseph  G. 
Cocrswell  in  Northampton,  and  at  Harvard 
College,  where  he  was  graduated  in  1883. 
He  took  a  full  course  at  Harvard  medical 
school,  but  instead  of  practising  medicine  he 
went  into  trade.  In  1339  he  began  the  study 
of  theology.  By  invitation  of  Bishop  Spencer  of 
Newfoundland  he  went  to  Bermuda,  where  he 
took  deacon's  orders  in  1842  and  priest's  in 
1843,  and  was  appointed  chaplain  to  the  bishop 
and  inspector  of  schools.  He  was  afterward  ap- 
pointed to  the  parish  of  Bay  Roberts  In  New. 
foundland  ("Peterport"  in  "Tho  New  Priest") 
and  made  the  record  of  a  devoted  servant  of 
Christ,  especially  in  tho  famine  of  1840,  when 
his  medical  training  was  of  the  utmost  value 
to  the  people;  he  was  chairman  of  the  relief 
committee  of  the  district  and  wore  his  health 
out  in  his  arduous  work,  so  that  he  was  com- 
pelled to  return  to  the  United  States.  Mr. 
Lowell's  next  work  was  among  tho  poorer  peo- 
ple of  Newark,  N.  J.,  where  he  gathered  a  oon 
gregation  called  Christ  Church,  and  in  1849-60 
built  a  stone  church,  which  was  open  and  free 
to  all,  with  daily  senrioes.  Between  1869  and 
1889  he  was  rector  of  Christ  Church,  Duanea- 
burg,  N.  Y.,  and  then  for  four  years  was  head 
master  of  St.  Mark's  School  in  South  borough. 

It  was  while  he  was  rector  of  the  parish  at 
Newark  that  he  sent  to  press  bis  first  and  most 
important  work, "The  New  Priest  In  Conception 
Bay."  The  novel  was  published  by  Phillips, 
Sampson  &  Co.  in  the  fall  of  1858,  and  such  was 
the  interest  in  tho  work  that,  though  sent  out 
anonymously  and  followed  almost  immediately 
by  tho  failure  of  the  publishers,  the  first  edition 
was  exhausted  in  a  short  time. 

The  slender  volume  of  poems  which  appeared 
in  i860  under  the  title  of  "Fresh  Hearts  that 
Failed  Three  Thousand  Years  Ago,  and  Other 
Things,"  was  but  a  small  part  of  the  poetry 
which  he  kept  back  in  manuscript;  and  it  was 
filled  out  in  the  next  edition,  published  in  1863, 
with  many  new  pieces,  and  dedicated  to  his  old 
teacher.  Dr.  Cogswell. 

The  famous  war  poem,  "The  Massachusetts 
Line,"  written  to  the  air  of  "Yankee  Doodle," 
was  sung-  with  wonderful  inspiration  during  the 
Civil  War.  Still  another  of  theso  poems  is  tho 
one  entitled,  "The  Little  Years,"  a  song  for  tho 
older  graduates  at  Harvard,  which  is  an  unfor- 
gettable poem.  Still  another,  written  in  a  dif- 
ferent vein,  but  equally  unforgettable.  Is  "Tho 
Brave  Old  Ship,  the  Orient. ;"  and  yet  another, 
entitled  "Burgoyne's  Last  March,"  written  In 
1877.  is  a  fine  specimen  of  the  way  in  which  he 
treated  an  historical  theme. 

When  Dr.  Lowell  gave  up  the  charge  of  St. 
Mark's  School,  he  made  his  home  in  Sohenec- 
tady,  N.  Y.,  and  in  1873  became  tho  professor 
of  the  Latin  lanjnago  and  literature  iu  Union 
College,  where  he  remained  for  six  years. 
After  retiring  from  this  post  In  1879,  he  did  not 


undertake  any  further  public  duty,  but  contin- 
ued to  reside  iu  Schenectady,  and  identified 
himself  strongly  with  its  interests  and  associa- 
tions. Out  of  his  residence  there  grew  "Stories 
from  an  Old  Dutch  Town," 

Dr.  I-owell's  home  was  on  the  banks  of  tho 
Mohawk,  and  from  the  foot  of  his  garden  lie 
could  take  his  boat  and  go  up  and  down  the 
river  at  his  leisure.  He  was  a  great  student  of 
the  classics,  and  delighted  to  write  to  his  friends 
in  Greek,  or  Latin,  or  English,  as  they  were 
able  to  follow  him  in  tbe  expression  of  his 
thoughts.  He  kept  up  his  interest  iu  the  ancient 
languages  to  the  end  of  his  life. 

Since  tbe  death  of  his  brother,  his  health, 
which  was  very  much  impaired  by  the  death  of 
his  wife  last  year,  became  more  and  more  un-, 
certain,  and  his  sadden  death  baa  not  -been,  un- 
expected. Tie  had  five  ohildren— three  sonfand 
two  daughters.  His  eldest  son,  James,  and  his 
son  Charles  survive  him.  His  two  daughters, 
Mary  and  Rebecca,  are  living  in  Schenectady. 

SEPTEMBER    14,    1891 


41 

Nobth  Coswat,  N.  H.,  August  13.— W.  D. 
Ho  well*  speaks  of  Lowell's  death  as  a  national 
calamity.  He  declines  to  be  interviewed,  bnt 
says  he  may  write  an  article  on  Lowell  at  tome 
other  tun*. 


REGARD    FOR    LOWKli. 


Sorrowful  Words  at  the  Death  of  the  Ameri- 
can Pock 

Lon-dox,  August  18.— The  provincial  press 
and  tho  London  afternoon  papers  contain  long 
and  affectionate  articles  upon  the  late  James 
Russell  Lowell.  Expressions  of  sorrow  for  his 
death  come  from  every  quarter. 

The  Pall  Mall  Gazelle  says:  "The  universal 
regret  for  Lowell's  death  and  admiration  for 
his  character  and  achievements  expressed  on 
this  side  of  the  Atlantic  are  an  eloquent  testi- 
mony of  the  reality  of  that  entente  among  the 
English-speaking  race  which  it  was  one  of  the 
objects  of  Lowell's  life  to  promote.  His  place 
in  literature  >s  with  Carlyle  and  Ruskin." 

Edmund  Gosse,  in  an  article  in  the  St-  James 
Gazette,  says:  "It  is  too  soon  to  make  an  esti- 
mate of  his  final  place  in  history.  We  think 
today  only  of  his  stainless  record,  his  lofty  in- 
telligence and  his  devotion  to  letters,  and  we 
reverently  partake  rf  America's  sorrow." 
Henry  Irving  writes  as  follows: 
"In  common  with  all  Englishmen,  I  lament 
the  loss  of  one  we  to  loved  and  honored."  ' 

Loxbok,  August  IS.— Lord  Tennyson  wires 
from  Haslemere  saying:  "England and  America 
will  mourn  Lowell's  death.  They  lovad  him 
aed  he  loved  them.  Pray  express  for  myself 
and  mine  sincerest   sympathy  with  ihe  family- 

"Teskyson." 
Walter  Bcsant,  the  well-known  writer  and 
novelist  and  first  chairman  of  the  executive 
committee  of  the  Incorporated  Society  of  Au- 
thors', has  sent  a  telegram  from  Darrmore,  in 
which,  referring  to  the  deatn  of  Lowell,  he 
says:  "The  English  Authors'  Sooiety  sends  its 
deepest  regrets  ond  sympathy  with  Americans 
on  the  death  of  that  great  writer,  its  friend, 
James  Russell  LowelL" 

803(05  AKER1CAJJ  TBIBUTES. 

Bab  Habbob,  Me.,  August  13.— Secretary 
Blaine,  when  informed  of  the  death  of  James 
Russell  Lowell,  expressed  his  deepest  sympathy 
at  the  sad  news.  When  asked  if  he  would  not 
make  some  statement  of  Mr.  Lowell's  career  as 
a  diplomat  he  declined  to  do  so. 

Boston,  August  13.— Dr.  Oliver  Wendell 
Holme*  is  much  affected  by  the  death  of  his 
life-long  friend, James  Russell  LoweU,although, 
as  he  says,  he  knew  it  was  coming  a  long  time. 
He  declined,  however,  most  imperatively  to 
talk  on  the  subject  for  publication  at  this 
time. 

Newbttbtpobt,  Mass.,  August  18.— John 
Greenleaf  Whitticr,  who  has  been  forced 
to  return  from  the  mountains  by  ill  health,  was 
much  shocked  to  hear  of  Mr.  Lowell's  death. 
"Too  bad,  too  bad,"  he  said.  "It  is  indeed  a 
great  loss  to  American  letters  and  to  the  world." 


COMPOUND    INTEREST. 

A  new  way  of  laying  up  money  Is  described  by  a 
writer  in  the  Contemporary  Review,  and  the  story  is 
the  more  interestiug  because  of  the  celebrity  of  the 
involuntary  inventor  of  the  method  in  question- 
no  less  a  person  than  the  author  of  the  Blglow 
Papers.  In  1855,  says  the  writer,  Longfellow 
having  resigned  bis  place  as  professor  of  modern 
languages  and  literature  in  Harvard  College, 
Lowell  was  appointed  his  successor,  with  leave  of 
absence  to  perfect  himself  In  his  studies. 

Lowell  at  once  went  abroad,  but  did  not  remain 
so  long  as  be  bad  intended.  In  later  years  he  used 
to  tell  now  he  happened  to  cut  short  his  European 
studies. 

It  appears  that  he  left  Instructions  with  his 
London  bankers  to  notify  him  as  soon  as  his 
account  was  reduced  to  a  specified  sum.  Then  he 
settled  down  to  his  work,  drawing  upon  his  bankers 
as  be  needed  money,  but  keeping  no  account  of  his 
drafts.  He  was  still  in  tbe  midst  of  bis  studies, 
when  one  day  he  received  word  that  bis  balance 
had  been  cut  down  to  the  specified  figures. 

The  news  was  surprising;  he  had  supposed 
himself  still  well  within  his  limits;  but  as  he  had 
no  records  of  his  own  there  was  of  course  no 
disputing  tbe  banker's  statement,  even  had  it 
occurred  to  him  to  do  so.  He  packed  up  at  once 
and  returned  to  America. 

Some  years  afterward  he  received  a  letter  from 
the  bankers,  stating  that,  owing  to  the  error  of  a 
clerk,  his  account  had  been  charged  with  a  certain 
sum  which  had  been  drawn,  not  by  him,  but  by 
another  Lowell,  a  kinsman  of  his. 

Tbe  bankers  apologized  for  the  blunder,  and  of 
course  had  placed  the  amount  of  the  draft,  with 
compound  interest,  at  his  credit.  They  kindly 
suggested  that  If  he  were  not  in  present  want  o'f 
the  money,  they  would  invest  it  for  him  in  a  way 
which  they  believed  would  turn  out  to  bis  advan- 
tage. 

Mr.  Lowell  thanked  them,  and  asked  them  to 
Invest  the  amount  at  their  discretion.  About  a 
year  afterward  he  received  a  draft  for  nearly  seven 
hundred  pounds,  and  found  it  very  timely,  as  he 
was  just  then  wishing  to  furnish  a  house.  Thanks 
to  bis  own  carelessness  and  the  blunder  of  a  clerk, 
be  was  able  to  do  It  in  a  fairly  sumptuous  manner. 


T     W     J.    Tj 

■£  "?  "s:  v 


1  .Scl;  a 


*  S3  (5.26 


Mi)t  Bulletin, 

■■    -        -  i      ■■■  if  ii  _  ii. a 

~^TPara1bie3t*vwt.  |  fc/JCT 
Said  Christ,  our  Lord.  "I  will  go  and  sec- 
How  the  mcu,  my, brethren,  believe  in  me." 
He  passed  not  nn.ua  through  the  gate  <-f  birth 
But  mide  himself  known  to   the   children  or 
earth. 

T".:en   said    the   chief-priesSs,    and    rulers,  and 

kings, 
"Beholu,  now,  tiu  Giver  ol  all  good  things. 
Go  to,  let  us  welcome  with  pomp  and  s'atc 
Him  who  alone  Is  mighty  and  great." 

With  carpets  of  „oid  the  ground  they  spread 
Wherever  tbe  Son  of  Man  should  tread, 
And  in  paleee  i  immtiers  lofty  aud  rare. 
They  lodged  him  und  served  him  with  kingly 
fare. 

Great  organ?  surged  through  arches  dim 
Their  jubilant  tiooc's  in  praise  of  him; 
And  in  church,  and  palace,  and  judgment-kali, 
He  saw  his  imnse  hi{.'h  overalls 

But  still,  win::  ever  his  step3  they  led, 
Tbe  Lord  in  sot  cow  bent  down  bis  head. 
And  fron-  under  the  heavy  foundation  stores 
The  Son  of  Mary  heard  bitter  groans. 

And  in  church,  and  pulacc,  and  judgment-hall. 
He  marked  great  fissures  that  rent  the  wall. 
And  opened  wider  and  yet  more  wide 
As  the  llviug  foundation  heaved  and  sighed. 

"Have  ye  founded  your,  thrones    and   altars, 

then. 
On  the  bodiesSand  soufs  of  living  men? 
And  think  y>.  that  building  shall  endure 
Which  shelters  the  noble  and  crushes  tbe  poor? 

"With  gate.-  <>f  silver  and  bars  of  gold 

7c  have  IVne  d  my  sheep  from  tho  Master's 

fold; 
I  have  heard  the  dropping  of  their  tears 
In  hcavcu  tho?o  eighteen  hundred  years." 

"O  Lord  and  Muster,  not  ours  the  guUt, 
We  build  but  st«  our  fathers  built; 
Behold  thine  images,  bow  they  stand. 
Sovereign  and  sole,  through  all  our  land. 

"Our  task  is  hard,— with  sword  und  flame 
To  bold  thy  earth  forexer  tbe  same. 
And  with  sharp  crooks  of  steel  to  keep 
Still,  as  thou  leftest  then,  thy  sheep." 

Then  Christ  *oiifrtit  out  an  artisan, 
A  low-brewed,  «tunted.  haggard  map. 
And  a-aotherii'u  girl,  whone  fingers  thin 
Pushed  from  licr  faintly  want  and  sin. 

These  set  he  in  the  midet  of  them. 
And  as  they  drew  back  their  garment-bcaij) 
For  fear  of  defilement,  "Lo,  here."  t«ud  ha,  < 
"The  images  ye  nave  made  of  mci"  '  ■   , 

,„  —[James  Russell  Low&if.,, 


MR     LOWELL'S    LAST    LETTER. 

The  Athenceum  publishes  the  following 
letter,  which  was  written    by   the  late 
James  Russell  Lowell  to  Mr.   R.  A.   King- 
lake  shortly  before  his  death:— 
Dear  Mr.  Kinghke, 

I  am  highly  honored  in  tb.3  dedication  of 
your  pamphlet,  which'  I  read  with  great 
interest.  I  think  your  pUn  o!  Local  Val- 
halla* to  supplement  that  at  Westminster  an 
excellent  one.  Whils  it  admits  men  of 
national  reputation,  like  Blake  and  Fielding, 
it  admits  also  men  of  \cn  renown,  but 
deserving  some  lasting  commemoration  in  a 
less  degree.  A  collection  of  the  busts  of 
worthies  (in  old  Fuller's  sense)  is  bjth  a 
recognition  and  a  stimulus.  I  am  not  well 
enough  to  cherish  any  hops  of  seeing  England 
again  this  year.  My  recollections  of  the  old 
home  are  among  the  dearest  of  my  life. 
8houId  you  see  Archdeacon  Denison,  I  pny 
you  to  recall  me  kindly  to  his  memory.  With 
kindest  regards  to  your  daughter, 
I  remain,  faitbf ally  yours, 

:  i     J.  B.  Lowell. 


a^fi**1  LOWELL.      tyt-ntfll 

- — T^3       Pieve  di  Cadore,  August  37. 

Is  tbe  notice  of  the  life  of  Lowell  in  the  Na- 
tion of  August  18,  there  la  a  passage  which 
seems  to  me  to  admit,  if  not  require,  a  fuller 
explanation  than  is  there  given.  After  men- 
tioning the  death  of  his  first  wife  and  tbe  con- 
sequent change  in  his  manner  of  existence,  it 
says:  "  And  although  be  allowed  bis  name  io 
•land  in  conrecilon  with  anti-slavery  socle- 
ti  s,  be  was  generally  regarded  as  having 
cooled  In  sympathy.  This  was  unjustly  attri- 
buted to  bis  becoming,  in  1856,  a  professor  in 
Harvard  University,  then  Tightly  regarded  as 
very  conservative."  The  disclaimer  is  correct, 
but  purely  negative  ;  and,  as  a  fact,  the  imagi- 
nary cooling,  which  was  nothing  more  than 
the  natural  effect  of  grief  and  a  morbid  me 
lancholy,  preceded  any  bint  of  his  appoint- 
ment to  succeed  Longfellow,  and  was  broken 
np  by  it  and  bis  subsequent  visit  to  Europe. 

It  happened  that  I  made  Lowell's  acquaint- 
ance shortly  after  the  death  of  bis  first  wife 
and  while  he  was  still  overwhelmingly  affect- 
ed by  it  I  went  to  Cambridge  to  secure  the 
assistance  of  the  literary  men  resident  there 
for  tbe  carrying  on  of  an  art  Journal  which  I 
bad  then  projected  and  afterwards  edited,  tbe 
Crayon,  and  the  acquaintance  grew  into  a 
warm  friendship,  of  whioh  one  of  the  first 
fruits  was  an  invitation  to  come  and  stay  with 
him  at  Elmwood.  He  was  in  a  state  of  apathy 
and  incipient  hypochondriasis,  from  which, 
as  one  of  his  later  letters  shows,  my  intrusion 
into  bis  solitude  partially  aroused  him,  and  be 
was  grateful  for  the  diversion.  The  grief  for 
the  death  of  bis  wife  was  keen,  and  bis  feeling 
was  expressed  in  the  ''Ode  to  Happiness," 
which  he  read  me  from  his  note-book  one  day 
during  this  visit.  He  spoke  of  it  as  unfinish- 
ed, but,  so  far  as  I  recollect,  it  was  then  as  it 
was  printed  later.  What  oppressed  him,  bow- 
ever,  more  than  bis  bereavement  was  a  pro- 
found conviction  thut  bis  brain  was  menaced 
by,  or  actually  undergoing,  a  process  similar 
to  ossification,  and  that  he  was  doomed  to 
die,  as  his  mother  had  died,  insane;  and  this 
gloomy  presenliment,  coupled  with  his  sor- 
row, produced  tbat  apathy  which  was  regard- 
ed as  a  cooling  off  of  his  human  sympathies; 
be  considered  himself  as  already  tbe  victim 
of  a  terrible  death,  and  all  his  constitutional 
buoyancy  could  not  resist  the  obsession. 

I  had  Just  gone  through  one  of  these  disil- 
lusions wbich  young  men  consider  great  grief  c, 
and  this  excited  a  certain  sympathy  wbich 
took  him  out  of  himself,  while  tbe  efforts  I 
made  to  arouse  him  out  of  his  apathy  and  de- 
spondency were  grateful  to  him  and,  I  hope, 
useful.  I  was  an  intense  admirer  of  his  poetry, 
and  bad  most  of  the  then  published  poems  by 
heart,  and  1  made  him  talk  of  them  and  read 
me  what  be  had  unprinted.  He  told  me  that 
be  bad  written  "  Sir  Launfal "  in  two  evenings, 
and  had  never  retouched  it — an  omission  I 
gently  reproved  him  for,  but  he  replied  in  a 
way  which  made  me  think  tbat  be  did  not  bold 
bis  work  in  such  high  esteem  as  to  induce  him 
to  spend  much  labor  limae  on  it.  Tbe  fact 
was,  1  suspect,  tbat  he  could  not  take  up  re- 
vision wit  bout  its  becoming  remaking,  for 
bis  versification   was  so  spontaneous  tbat  he 


42 

could  write  in  verse  faster  than  in  prose,*  ai.d 

it  was  easier  to  write  new  than  to  remodel  tbe 

old.     This  facility  was  curiously  shown  in  one 

of  our  Adirondack  excursions.    We  had  halted 

to  camp  on  Tupper's  Lake,  and  the  guides  and 

myself  constructed  for   the  occasion   a  huge 

bark  sbanty,  and  when  it  was  finished,  I  said 

to  Lowell,  "We  have  built  you  a  bouse;  now 

give  us  an  inscription  for  it";  and  be  began 

what  I  at  first  took  for  a  reply,  but  what  was 

really,  without  casting  about  for  a  word,  an 

impromptu: 

"Whom  rain  doth  welter 
Or  neat  swelter. 
Respect  tbls  shelter," 

and  went  on  with  a  history  of  tbe  sbanty,  tbe 
part  taken  by  each  of  na  In  the  work,  giving 
the  names  of  the  whole  party,  whiob  was  com- 
posed of  ten  visitors  and  nine  guides,  all  with- 
out an  instant's  hesitation  and  as  if  it  were  a 
part  of  the  conversation. 

He  did  afterward?,  however,  in  spite  of  bis 
reluctance  to  retouch  bis  work,  rewrite  for  the 
Crayon  tbe  little  poem  so  well  known,  "  Tbe 
First  Snow-Fa!),"  wbich  had  been  for  years 
circulating  in  the  newspapers,  gathering  mis- 
prints. He  sent  me  many  contributions  for  tbe 
Crayon,  tor  whioh  he  could  never  be  induced 
to  accept  tbe  slightest  remuneration.  He 
never  could  remember  or  rewrite  anything 
tbat  was  lost,  and  be  used  to  tell  with  a  comio 
distress  the  losing  of  "  tbe  funniest  thing  he 
ever  wrote"  in  a  German  hotel,  while  he  was 
abroad  rubbirg  up  bis  German  preparatory  to 
his  as  u min g  bis  professorship  at  Harvard. 

Prior  to  undertaking  tbe  publication  of  the 
Crayon,  I  had  been  engaged  as  art  editor  on 
the  Evening  Post,  then  edited  by  Bryant;  and 
talking  with  him  of  Lowell,  I  thought  I  per- 
ceived a  certain  soreness  at  the  criticism  Low- 
ell had  passed  on  him  in  tbe  '  Fable  for  Cri- 
tics,' and  1  mentioned  it  to  Lowell.  When  he 
came  to  New  York  to  embark  for  Europe,  on 
tbe  occasion  alluded  to,  I  gave  bim  a  dinner, 
chiefly  to  bring  him  and  Bryant  together,  as 
tbey  bad  never  met ;  and  Lowell,  remember- 
ing Bryant's  feeling  on  tbe  subject  of  tbe  cri- 
ticism, did  his  best  to  captivate  tbe  elder  poet, 
and,  as  I  satisfied  myself  later  by  talking  with 
Bryant,  succeeded  completely,  and  though 
tbere  were  in  the  company  several  of  Lowell's 
old  friends,  Bayard  Taylor,  Charles  Sumner, 
E.  P.  Whipple,  and  others,  tbe  conversation 
between  the  two  was  hardly  interrupted  dur- 
ing the  entire  evening.  We  separated  at  a 
late  hour,  Bryant  and  I  leaving  Lowell  and 
Taylor  at  the  Turkish  cafe  of  Oscanyan  en 
joying  a  nargileh. 

I  resided  in  London  during  a  large  part  of 
tbe  time  in  which  Lowell  represented  the 
United  States  there,  and  can  endorse  what  the 
Nation  says  of  his  political  aspect.  He  was 
accused  of  servility  to  rank  and  of  indifference 
to  the  social  pretensions  of  Americans  in  Lon- 
don.    He  simply  understood  his  but-iness  at  tba 


'[Witness  Lowell's  own  testimony  In  tbat  in- 
imitable "Letter  rrcm  Boston"  of  December 
27,  1840,  written  "  In  steambout  haste."— Ed. 
Nation.] 

"  Dear  M..  By  way  of  tarHno  time, 
I'll  do  this  letter  up  In  rhyme. 
Whose  slim  stream  through  four  pages  flows, 
Ere  one  Is  packed  with  tight-screwed  prose. 
Threading  the  tube  or  an  epistle 
Smooth  as  a  child's  breath  through  a  whistle." 


court  to  which  he  had  been  sent,  which  was,  as 
I  have  since  beard  it  formulated  by  one  of  tbe 
greatest  of  English  diplomats.  Lord  Dufferln, 
not  to  introduce  bis  countrymen  to  tbe  society 
of  the  court,  but  to  represent  bis  Government 
at  that  court.  Americans  inflated  by  a  local 
Importance  came  to  London  wearing  their 
Congressional-district  balos,  and  expected  to 
be  presented  to  tbe  Queen,  wearing  them; 
Lowell,  measuring  them  by  the  larger  standard 
of  a  court  where  all  (he  world  comes,  declined 
to  use  bis  great  personal  influence  to  tbe  disre- 
gard of  that  standard.  His  feeling,  which  was 
just  and  di|  lomatic,  was  tbat  no  American,  be- 
cause be  is  such,  is  entitled  to  a  presentation  at 
court  or  an  introduction  to  English  society, 
but  that  it  is  for  the  Queen  in  one  case,  and  so- 
ciety in  tbe  other,  to  choose  whom  they  will 
see,  and  that  without  some  distinction  which 
makes  them  of  interest  to  tbe  one  and  tbe 
other,  the  presentation  is  an  intrusion.  A 
Minister  who  considered  it  his  duty  to  be  tbe 
U"ber  of  all  tbe  Americans  who  come  to  Lon- 
don, would  find  tbat  he  had  neither  time  nor 
influence  for  his  diplomatic  duties. 

Lowell  knew  every  detail  of  tbe  court  eti- 
quette, and  while,  on  the  one  band,  he  never 
permitted  him-elf  to  be  led  into  a  violation  of 
it,  on  tbe  other  be  never  allowed  any  deroga- 
tion of  tbe  ceremony  which  bis  position  as  the 
representative  of  a  great  Power  entitled  him 
to.  He  maintained  tbat  a  sovereign  demo> 
craoy  had  tbe  same  right  to  the  formalities 
established  for  the  court  as  a  monarchy,  and 
abated  none  of  them.  A  lady  of  rank  at  whose 
house  I  was  visiting,  expressed  tbe  desire  to 
make  the  acquaintance  of  the  Minister,  and  I 
undertook  to  make  him  acquainted  with  her 
wish.  He  inquired  her  rank,  and  ns  she  was  a 
marchioness,  he  replied,  "I  cannot,  as  Minis- 
ter Plenipotentiary,  make  the  first  call  on  any- 
thing less  than  a  duke;  tbe  Marquis  must  make 
the  first  call."  People  wbo  know  nothing  of 
tbe  importance  of  precedent  may  consider  this 
snobbish  in  the  representative  of  a  republican 
country,  but  it  was  just  this  wbich  made 
Lowell  ibe  stickler  for  the  letter  of  the  law  of 
precedence  which  he  was.  He  would  not  al- 
low, even  by  a  careless  acquiescence  in  a  neg- 
lect o>  one  of  the  rules  of  diplomatic  ei  queue, 
any  diregard  of  the  least  of  them  which 
might  seem  to  abate  the  deference  due  him  as 
the  lepresenialive  of  a  republic. 

Your  comment  on  bis  seoond  wife,  "an  ac- 
complished and  agreeable  woman,"  does  very 
imperfect  jui-t'ce  to  her  qualities.  She  was 
one  of  tbe  noblest  women  I  bavo  ever  known, 
and  I  knew  her  from  early  in  her  entry  into  his 
family  nearly  till  tbe  day  of  her  death.  She  was 
fully  worthy  of  him  and  made  his  married  life 
with  her  supremely  happy.  He  told  me  that 
his  attachment  for  her  had  begun  before  be 
left  home  tor  Germany,  but  tbat  be  waited  till 
be  had  i  roved  by  protracted  absence  that  it 
was  solid  before  declaring  himself.  My 
opinion  Is  that  she  influenced  his  life  even 
more  than  his  first  wife,  though  I  judge  of  tbe 
earlier  period  only  from  what  he  and  others 
wbo  knew  bim  then  have  told  me.  There 
was  an  intensity  of  sympathy  fa  her  nature, 
coupled  with  the  highest  moral  standard, 
which  be  felt  the  full  value  of  and  reposed  on. 
For  reasons  which  I  do  not  recolleot,  I  did  not 
at  the  time  of  their  marriage  write  to  con- 


gratulate  him,  but,  a  considerable  time  after, 
I  did  so  and  apologized  for  the  neglect,  and 
he  replied  that  the  congratulations  "  hit  the 
■white,"  Tor  he  was  very  happy.  I  have  not,  I 
believe,  seen  him  since  her  death. 

W.  J.  Stillman. 


JAMES  RUSSELL  LOWELL 
A   STUDY    IN    TWO    CHAPTERS., 
oAK  By  S.  H.  Thayer.  ^^  fl* 


Vtifr 


Wjs>'  I- 

A  PEOPLE  finds  in  its  leaders  of  thought,  in  its 
best  translators  of  sentiment  end  of  life,  fitting  ex- 
ponents of  its  language,  learning,  and  spirit.  Each 
determinate  civilization,  modern  or  ancient,  has  its  own 
commentate,  and  poetry,  of  various  distinctions,  made 
classic  for  their  interpretation  of  the  environments  and 
essential  ideals  of  its  respective  periods.  The  enduring 
monuments  of  thought,  in  whatever  form  expressed,  pre 
thus  related  to  their  time  ;  trcn  grow  great  by  appropri- 
ating and  elucidating  the  eminent  principles  and  passions 
of  their  age  and  race. 

We,  as  a  ptople,  need  not  be  ashamed  of  our  own  dis- 
tinguished names,  although  time  has  not,  as  yet,  applied 
its  supreme  test  to  them.     Letters,  poetry,  the  distinct- 
ive product.,  of  literary  creation,  are  perhaps   of  the 
slower  fruits  that  ripen  in  a  new  civilization,  so  that  of 
these  names  we  may  count  only  a  rare  few.     Irving  and 
Bryant  are  of  the   illustrious  dead  ;  Emerson,  whose 
eerene  mountain-thought  has  given  fresh  force  and  grace 
to  the  ideas  of  liberty  and  ethical  philosophy,  has  more 
recently  gone  before ;   Longfellow,  beneficent  and  be- 
loved not  only  by  one  race,  but  In  a  hundred  clime3, 
who  has  typified  the  home  sanctities  In  living  song,  who 
has  relit  the  altar-fires  of  old-time  legendary  lore  in  his 
marvelous  verse,  has  followed  these  ;  while  "Whittier 
and  Lowell  are  far  along  on  the  western  horizon,  their 
work  largely  accomplished,  and  their  records  princi- 
pally made.   Of  the  latter,  whose  literary  career  has,  for 
a  time,  been  Interrupted,  this  paper  treats.  His  work  and 
vogue  are  somewhat  of  a  unique  cast ;  there  is  in  them 
an  especially  articulated  relish  of  the  humanities,  mod- 
ulated by  a  modern  critical  tendency.     Whether  humor- 
ous or  serious,  in  poetry  or  in  prose,  he  is  a  broader, 
larger  mold  of  the  Matthew  Arnold  type,  plus  genius. 
His  thought  has    more  warmth  and  blood,    more  im 
agery,  and  more  humor  and  enthusiasm  than  that  of  the 
fibrous  Englishman  ;  there  is  a  certain  bountlfulnes*  of 
wealth,  an  unfettered  optimism,  that  gives  a  flavor  and 
picturesqueness  to  his  commentaries.     His  art  creed   is 
not  held  as  severely  or  tenaciously  as  Arnold's,  his 
critical  discussions  are  more  instinctive,  less  polemic, 
lees  consciously  impressive,   less  methodical.     Arnold 
has  made  his  model  after  the  classic  Greek  form  ;  his 
stress  Is  laid  on  the  construction,  the  expression,  which 
are  the  superficial  endowments  of  language — these  arc 
the  first  articles  In  Arnold's  creed,  which,  like  most 
literary  creeds,  is  frequently  broken  by  the  author.  But 
there  la  an   exuberant  freedom  in  the  movement  of 
Lowell's  thought  and  art  that  Is  hail-fellow  and  recip- 
rocal, which  attracts  rather  than  compels  a  following. 
I  am  speaking  now  rather  of  his  prose  than  poetry. 

Lowell  was  the  product  of  a  long  succession  of  worthy 
ancestors.  Nearly  250  years  ago  they  came  over  from 
Worcestershire,  England,  and  settled  in  Middlesex 
County,  Mass.    Lowell,  the  city  of  looms,  was  named 


43 

after  them.  Lowells  grandfather  was  a  distinguished 
judge  ;  his  father  was  a  Unitarian  clergyman  in  Boston, 
where  he  himself  grew  under  the  shadow  of  Harvard 
University.  He  early  and  thoroughly  imbibed  the  spirit 
of  its  high  order,  and  through  patient  fostering  prepared 
for  and  entered  its  regular  course  at  the  age  of  fifteen, 
became  class  poet,  and  graduated  at  nineteen.  From 
his  studies  here  he  was  booked  for  the  law — the  law, 
that  dream  so  prone  to  end  in  drudgery.  I  believe  it' is 
Alexander  Smith  who  says  that  "skylarks  are  prima- 
rily created  to  sing,  although  a  whole  choir  of  them  may 
bo  baked  in  pies. "  Imagine  Lowell  trained  to  the  musty 
tomes  of  this  most  voluminous  profession  ;  Lowell,  so 
natively  a  "  law  unto  himself,"  incrusted  In  traditions 
and  precedents,  rfnd  buried  in  briefs  !  He  escaped  ;  in- 
deed, like  Irving  and  Bryant,  ho  could  never  find  clients, 
and  they  could  never  find  him.  He  spent  a  year  at  it, 
and  at  the  end  of  it,  in  1841, , 'published  a  volume  of 
poems  entitled  "A  Year's  Life.''  One  suspects  a 
more  appropriate  title  would  have  been  "A  Year 
of  Death."  Is  it  strange  that  in  these  early  poems 
we  find  an  Imitation  of  the  laureate  master  whose  lyr- 
ics had  already  captivated  the  eye  and  ear  of  the  younger 
poets  of  both  shores  ?  These  notes  from  "The  Sirens" 
are  echoes  from  across  the  sea,  and  no  mean  ones  : 

"  The  sea  is  lonely,  the  eea  Is  dreary, 
The  sea  is  restless  and  uneasy  ; 
Thou  seeke6t  quiet,  thou  art  weary, 
Wandering,  thou  knowest  not  whither. 

Como  to  the  peaceful  home  of  onre, 

Where,  evermore, 
The  low  west  wind  keeps  panting  up  the  shore." 

Young  songsters,  like  young  birds,  mimic  some  elder 
until  they  find  their  own  aerius.  In  his  "Serenade," 
which  commences — 

"  Under  the  window  I  sit  alone, 
Alone,  alone— ah,  woe  !  alone!"— 

do  we  notdetect  the  cadenceof  Shelley  making  a  tragedy 
in  thought  ?  Lowell  had  yet  to  find  hw  vein,  but  mean- 
while his  ear  would  catch  sounds  that  hired  him  every- 
whither. Yet  there  was  little  of  the  dilettante  in  his 
nature  :  he  was  wholesomely  fresh,  and  sufficiently 
•trained  by  study,  thought,  and  aptitude  to  feel  the 
pulse  of  life,  and  to  draw  from  nature's  springs  new 
revelations.  Lowell,  of  all  American  poets,  early 
found  for  himself  green  pastures  and  game  forests  ;  he 
would  not  long  infringe  on  another's  preserves,  he  must 
possess  in  his  own  right.  There  is  a  mark  of  high  man- 
liness— not  brusqueness,  but  the  strength  of  gentleness 
— found  in  this  earlier  work.  We  find  it  in  the  picture 
he  draws  entitled  "  Love :" 

"  A  love  that  doth  not  kneel  for  what  it  seeks, 
But  faces  truth  and  beauty  as  their  peer, 
Showing  its  worthiness  of  noblo  thoughts 
By  a  clear  sense  of  Inward  nobleness." 

The  theory  of  art  for  art's  sake  alone,  that  French 
speech  grafted  on  to  English  lips,  found  no  reiteration 
from  his.  He  would  use  art  as  a  means,  not  an  end. 
He  was  a  free  translator  of  Puritanism,  but  the  quality 
of  moral  supremacy  found  in  its  blood  coursed  through 
his  nature.  He  could  say.  as  he  did,  that  "  Puritanism 
had  an  abiding  faith  in  the  brotherhood  of  man  and 
the  fatherhood  of  God."  Two  things  stand  foremost  In 
Lowell's  prose  and  poetry  alike.  The  first,  an  Intrepid 
moral  nobility,  both  in  mind  and  character  ;  the  second, 
which  continually  manifests  Itself,  an  almost  vagrant 


s  a 


.23  a 


a  8 

_  <D 

a  o 

J3  a> 


o    IS 

8-3 


y  &  "3 

""   -J 

A 
5  **    O 
o   S?    o 

"ofi 
oo    p,  a> 

►    O    6 

o  ~  W 

A    §~ 

-8  8 

□     a5     O 

o   •;  v. 

K    O    v 

o      -"     «J 

o  £  ^ 

—  .=■   * 

O    •£   Xi 
(3     °     £ 

0!     O     J) 

3   *;    S 

am    f- 
,1     «J 

•§  -t  a 

C     c!    f 


®  >° 
"C    .- 

•o    >> 

o  it 

OS      OS 

£8. 

GO      * 

oj  a 

5  5 

3    CI 

a-2 

-J     u 

a   «> 
II 

2  ti 

00 

S3 


£     a) 
O  "O 


0  J 

A  A 

a  o 

a  "3 

s>  > 
A   «s 

S-S 

8  a 
3  o 
a  t 

%■  a 


a    a   b;  r  ' 


a>    «s 

as 
s  a 


■a  o 

bo  oj 
a    v 


a-e  s 


■3  3 

-  a 
a   o 


S   >   o 

4J     c 

■S>  a  2 

"3  5   >-, 

J3  «-,  zi 
°  .5  ~ 

<u     3     P     o 

M  "O 
o 


a>  —  — i 

as 

^-*  -a 

as  — 


a   a 

e)  — 

■B  s 
3« 

"3   St 
>    >> 

^-    B 
o    a 


3  S 


~        bo 


6 
< 
o 

•a 
a 
a 


Co 

g  _o 
o  S 

a   <- 


to  a 

a 

<u  o 

OQ  W 

2  o 

os  a 

a  a 

s  s 

-S  js 


m-5  s  a 


-2  •?„ 


o 
►J  .2 


•  a 

O  J3 

»  XJ 

*  a 

o  — 

t  ^ 

a  « 


o 

"op 
bo's 


•S  "5 


a  "3  w 

a  P 
.    3    ej 


:     Jfl 


Sit 


3     3 


w    cc 

-  O 
S3 

-  OS 

a  . 

o  - 


> 
a 
J3    a> 


a  — 
o 

3o 

J3    a> 
•    I 


K  SL  - 


■5  "o  tj 

*  g  * 

»- 

3  a-fj 
«  a  c; 
bO  3    * 

2*  « 

-  o   o 


°->  S 

^  o 

T3  -— 

OS  x 

fcp  «l-l 


«-.  >» 

O    as 

O     oo 

(► 

2  a 
°-s 

bO 

°  a 

O    ov 

^    O 

"3  S 

■a  a 

3  2 
2  § 

a  a 


a   a,"  a 

Pa 

a  -a  *s 


®  _-  .a  a  ? 

-5     05     ^     £«-''" 


-f301,-a3:5 


.|> 


o?2 


™    (U  ^i  t 


^  -3 


:     o 


^   o   ►, 

*°  3  .2 
<Sl5 


spire-like  narrowness  of  a  certain  class  of  scholarship,  Is 
apart  and  remote  from  As,  which  is  of  a  wider  range, 
wrought  out  of  various  contiguity  with  the  civilities 
and  thoughts  of  men  and  the  world.      "We  can  fre- 
quently only  contrast  critics,   as  we  do  orators  and 
poets,  not  compare  them.     Of  Stedman,  who,  as  a  con- 
temporaneous critic,  is  v\  close  sympathy  with  Lowell 
(the  two  constituting,  perhaps,  the  accepted  umpireship 
In  fctrlct  literature,  onlhis  side  the  water),  it  is  lair  toeay, 
he  possesses  the  keener  detective  edge  of  the  two.  There 
is  a  nicety  in  his  distinctions,  with  a  compactness  of 
style   (placing  a    word  for  a  sentence)  which    gives 
pungency  to  his  judgment,  and  exceptional  felicity  of 
meaning  to  his  statemeit.     Lowell  has  a  power  of  lui 
pressing,  different,  but  lot  less  effective  ;  he  bus  a  less 
delicate  but  more  lavidi  Imagination  ;  he  employs  his 
resources  more  irregularly,  less  strenuously,  than  Sted 
man.    There  is  that  ii  the  latter's  method  that  dis- 
penses with  extended  comment.     It  possesses  somewhat 
the  force  of  a  projectile  deftly  aud  surely  aimed  ;  while 
Lowell  hates  to  part  with  his  theme,  takes  views  from 
many  standpoints,  and  gives  the  effect  of  a  larger  out- 
look.   In  a  sense  the  two  critics  are  complementary  (in 
treatment  at  least);  the  disciplined  yet  delicate  touch  of 
the  one,  and  the  more  careless  range  of  the  other,  serve 
to  fill  out  and  complete  the  interpretation.     Yet  they  are 
both  poets,  and  find  numberless  similitudes  in  tendency 
and  feeling. 

We  sometimes  imagine  that  the  poetical  and  critical 
faculties,  when  united  in  one,  tend  to  Impair  the  condi- 
tions of  power  for  either  gift  in  the  possessor,  yet  some- 
how recognize  the  futility  of  poetic  criticism  save  by  a 
poet.  It  is  for  this  reason,  perhaps,  that  lovers  of  poetry 
are  drawn  Instinctively  toward  these  two  critics  :  for  a 
critic  must  have  In  himself  the  power  to  master  anoth- 
er's secrets.  But  we  forbear  further  reference  to  his 
critical  scope. 

The  poetry  of  Lowell  (the  earlier  of  which  we  re- 
ferred to  in  opening)  constitutes  the  finer,  more  char- 
acteristic body  and  soul  of  his  work,  and  certainly 
illustrates  better  his  free  imagination  and  various- 
sided  genius.  This  first  poetic  strain  was  scarcely  indig- 
enous ;  In  It  he  was  testing  the  point  of  his  cimeter,  or 
rather  casting  about  for  his  real  weapon  of  service.  I 
have  said  that  Lowell  is  a  true  American  ;  he  is  also  a 
progressive  one.  His  moral  forecast  and  his  mental  out- 
look were  prophetic  of  the  gathering  crisis  between 
slavery  and  freedom,  and  his  spirit  did  not  shrink  from 
the  conflict.  When  great  men  are  borne  on  the  tide  of 
mighty  forces,  when  thought  becomes  instinct  with  life, 
convictions  burning,  and  the  conscience  alive  and 
palpitating  under  the  stress  of  a  vast  moral  and  social 
evil,  genius  finds  its  armory  as  well  as  the  soldier. 
What  an  array  of  moral  potence  arose  at  the  alarm  of 
this  momentous  outcry  1  Whlttier,  Phillips,  Dana,  Pier- 
pont,  Garrison,  Bryant,  Emerson,  Longfellow,  and 
Lowell,  all  thrilled  with  their  protests  against  the  broken 
commandment.  Lowell  had  written  some  of  his  "  Big- 
low  Papers"  in- the  period  of  the  Mexican  War  ;  they 
had  served  as  a  protest  against  a  war  of  conquest. 
Charged  with  a  novel  invective,  pointed  with  satire, 
wit,  and  humor,  they  revealed,  both  to  Lowell  and  the 
world,  his  weapon.  "  I  soon  found  I  held  In  my  hand 
a  weapon,  instead  of  a  fencing-stick,  as  T  supposed,"  he 
said.  TV  e.-e  papers  were  cast  In  an  Idiomatic  vernic:  .lar, 
grotesquely  droll  to  a  fault,  but  beneath  all  drollery,  be- 
neath all  laughter,  there  was  a  Btern  present  ineBt  and  a 
burning  impeachment.     They  contained  a  lurking  whip 


44 
that  uenurjed.     None  but  a  born  humorist,  ani  one  na- 
tively learned  in  all  the  idiosyncrasies  and  Inconsist- 
encies of   American  society  aad  politics,  could  have 
filled  his  thought  to  such  a  mold  as  this.     They  had  the 
rare  quality  which  quickened  laughter  and  the   con- 
science at  the  same  time.    They  charged  on  slavery,  and 
put  the  slaveholder  In   the   pillory.     They  excoriated 
the  wily  politician  who  would  coo  gently  as  the  dove,  and 
make  over  his  manhood  for  the  paltry  pottage.     Others 
were  persecuted  and  buffeted  for  their  devotion  ;  but  the 
"  Biglow  Papers,"  not  a  whit  less  true  or  severe,  were 
without   an  adversary  with  which  to    cope.     Lowell 
challenged    slavery,    challenged    rebellion,   challenged 
political  chicanery,  the  triple  curses  of  the  times,  but  he 
found  no  opponent  who  could  match  his  unique  logic. 
Who  could  discomfit  Parson  "Wilbur,  who  confound 
Hosea  Biglow  ?     We  have  in  the  humorists  of  these 
present  days  sheer  nonsense,  odd  ways  of  saying  funny 
nothings  ;  but  the  ground  of  the  "  Biglow  Papers  "   Is 
veritable.  They  contain  a  wealth  of  fertile,  prolific  ideas, 
they  pierce  to  the  quick  the  crystallized  follies  and  the 
embodied  wrongs  of  tbcir  day,  and  in  their  own  way 
disclose  the  inventive  genius  of  an  original  mind,  with 
Infinitely  various  resources,  working  neither  for  spoil 
nor  praise,  but  enlisted  for  the  cause.     The  dainty  little 
cultures  of  the  artistic  school,  strained  through  the  mesh 
of  modern  vogues,  eliminate  the  individual  and  demand 
the  model  and  the  copyist,  but  the  vigorous  spirit  and 
independent  naturalness  of  Lowell  passes  by  the  school 
and  the  model,  and  asserts  itself.     Lowell's  gift  of  com- 
munication is  generally  a  fortunate  one  ;  he  does  not 
affect  words  to  mystify  his  phrases,  neither  i9  he  over 
prudent  in  his  qualifications  ;  there  is,  a  certain  energy 
and  glow  of  feeling  which  leads  one  to  forget  the  mere 
lacework  of  style.    He  is  equally  removed  from   the 
highly  distilled  attenuations  of  a  Swinburne  and  the  de- 
finitely harsh  abbreviations  of  a  Browning  ;  he  manages 
to  blend,  even  with  his  Illusive  themes,  acertain  virility, 
giving  to  their  vaguer  meanings  a  tenure  that  relieves 
them  from  obscurity.     Lowell   is  the  sworn  enemy  of 
sham  in  style,  as  In  character  ;  like  others  who  abound 
in  fullness, ^oweve'r,  he  frequently  writes  that  which, 
v/hlle  it  translates  to  himself  his  own  thought    and 
meaning,  demands  a  close  study  before  it  clarifies  to  the 
reader.     Yet  the  richest  mining  is  not  always  on  the 
surface,  and  you  are  pretty  sure  that  preteusion  has  no 
hand  in  molding  intu  form  the  heat  and  tension  of  hit 
thought.      That  which  lreathe9  through  his  body  of 
poetic  creatiou  Is  a  real  interpretation  of  passion  working 
itself  outward  into  real  pulsations.     There  is  but  little  of 
grave  meditative  philosophizing,   abstract  soliloquies, 
such  as  prevail  in  the  verse  of  Wordsworth.    Life  vivi- 
fying life,, with  large'and  free;  movements, "stirs  bim.to 
his  best.    In'his'poem  on  Columbus,  wherein  he  says,1' 
"  Life,  the  one.block 
Of  marble  that's  vouchsafed  wherefromto  carve 
Oar  great  thoughts," 

he  has  a  subject  that  touches  the  key  of  his  nature. 
When  he  makes  Columbus  say, 

"  My  heart  flies  on  before  me  as  I  sail ; 
Far  on  I  see  my  lifelong  enterprise," 
we  feel  that  his  Intervening  verse,  wherein  he  mor- 
alizes on  patience,  mysteries,  solitude,  and  the  still 
stare,  are  but  preludes  to  the  coming  reality.  Later,  the 
divining  soul,  translated  from  the  mere  theater  of 
life,  is  raised  as  on  wings  to  a  profounder  spiritual 
conception,  as  in  that  beautiful  poem,  *'  The  Vision 
of  Sir  Launfal " — Columbus  the  discoverer  of  earth,  Sir 
Launfal  the  discoverer  of  another  life. 


3    g    B    J   ou, 

8  3£  3-S.a 
as 


03 
P 

a  «- 
o  o 

£•  « 
-■g 

«    p. 


bt) 


5  .2 
2  -o 


•o  -a 

a  3 

X  « 
t»3 

t  2 

OS     4> 


as  H 

a 

a 

0  ti   °  : 

-1  B 

$  •S   ■*    . 

2  a  b  3 


ct  a  o 

B  3  « 

5  »"i 

o  53  > 

*  s  c 

a>  a  1- 

3  ^  0 


I 

•3   v  "S 


1    o 

I     P. 


-  b  ° 


ss 


5  2  8 

If! 


S  §5 


a  g  ■© 


6:  •£  a  g 

a,      O      w 

»— 1   a  w  «•  i-** 


•**  s 

60  a 

3      m  <U 

8-8  8 

S*  § 

*  P  g 

:      9  S 

uj     <5  4> 

>      *•  ja 


A  §  SsEiill  I 

O     Ol     a>  -•     "    v 

s 

-a  *o  "O  =3  •§ 
p  ' 


£   a 

%~4 


S  a  9 


C      00     — 

U  t3    O   _ 


r* 


0  E  I 


•a 
"a 

3 


^    *H    "S    &      M 


H  Ja  *•  A  3 

-  *•"'  -  3  &  a 

g  K  *  -3  «,  2  l^-oo 

>»§:  As*i  *| 

j«  ■§  a  %a<'5"  - 
a  js  ".  «3       .  -^  s  2 

os  a 

a  «>  A 

§  **  9 

U    1-i  o    ^ 

II:    a§  S«S56 


3  -q  a 

%  S  >> 

S.  -p  5 

•c  .  a 

Pa    >  0 

4)    e3  " 

>  s 

B      -  ^ 

t?  P. 


•-J 

w 

l-J 

a, 

-J! 

0 

K 

K 

I-] 

O 

P 

-J 
w 

O 

I 

CO 
CO 

H 

w 

» 

a? 

cq* 

PC 

■— « 

>a 

CO 

>- 

pq 

S3 

< 

t-i 

•-D 

to 

ti   8 


3J9l 
J3! 

la-8 


11 


hJ 


-a 

o 

•c 


which  but  registers  the  Interpretation  of  the  sacrificial 
idea  of  which  he  has  already  partaken.  The  leper,  glo- 
rified, stands  before  him  the  living  Master,  and  utters 
his  saying : 

"  In  many  climes,  without  avail, 
Thou  hast  spent  thy  life  for  the  Holy  Grail. 
Behold,  it  la  here,  this  cap  which  thou 
Didst  fill  at  the  streamlet  for  me  but  now : 
This  crust  is  my  body  broken  for  thee, 
This  water  his  blood  that  died  on  the  tree." 

In  this  simple  yet  beautiful  versification  we  may 
miss  the  intonations  of  a  Tennyson,  with  their  grooved 
and  flawless  modulation  of  expression ;  but  there  is 
freedom  and  fitness.  Going  back  to  this  passage  in  the 
prelude,  so  famous : 

"  And  what  is  so  rare  as  a  day  in  Jane  ? 
Then,  if  ever,  come  perfect  days ; 
Then  heaven  tries  the  earth  if  it  be  in  tune, 
And  over  it,  softly,  her  warm  ear  lays." 
Bow  untrammeled  Is  this  !    Like  the  wild  vine,  It 
runs  without  let  or  hindrance.    And  this  other  grander 
epitome : 

"  TLb  heaven  alone  that  is  given  away  ; 
'Tla  only  God  may  be  had  for  the  asking." 
Lowell  springs  many  such  compact  felicities  on  the 
reader,  that  electrify.  They  WTite  themselves  In  the 
memory  for  their  unqualified  probity  and  nobleness. 
He  reminds  you  of  some  musical  genius  who,  in  his 
affluence,  evokes  from  the  keys  the  ebb  and  flood  of  his 
own  feelings,  taking  light  heed,  as  a  bird  sings.  Nature, 
foremost,  has  made  such  an  one  bountiful.  Longfel- 
low's nicety  of  fancy,  unerringly  cast  into  beautiful 
intaglios  of  thought,  may  be  contrasted,  but  cannot  be 
compared,  with  Lowell's  way,  whoso  Imagination  breaks 
into  venturesome  excursions,  as  a  careless  boy  from 
school.  There  is  nothing  tentative  about  him.  He  confi- 
dently makes  a  song  of  his  own.  What  a  glad,  free 
overflow  is  that  passage  from  his  "  Al  Fresco."  begin- 
ning— 

"  The  dandelions  and  buttercups 
Gild  all  the  lawn ;  the  drowsy  bee 
Stumbles  among  the  clover-tops, 

And  summer  sweetens  all  bat  me. 
Away,  unfnrtfnl  love  of  books, 
For  whose  vain  idiom  we  reject 
The  soul's  more  native  dialect !" 
And  ending — 

"  Ob,  might  vie  bat  or  sach  rare  days 
Build  up  tbe  spirit's  dwelling-place  I" 

Lowell,  we  fancy,  would  rather  make  his  way,  In 
spirit,  through  Juno  days  and  blossoming  fields,  with 
the  south  breezes  Wowing,  than  through  introspective 
questionings,  whicl  would  vex  his  soul  with  their  fine- 
spun speculations.  -  He  is  not  disdainful  of  protoutW  or 
subjective  things ;  he  does  not  scorn  the  philosophies  ; 
but  he  will  not  drudge  it  These  traits  are  ingrained  ; 
they  pervade  his  work,  and  give  their  atmosphere  and 
color  to  his  thought ;  they  are  the  wings  oil  which  he 
soars— not  a  fashion  taken  on.  They  may  prove,  some- 
times, a  hindrance,  by  means  of  which  he  Is  led  to  fall 
below  the  true  key  of  his  song.  There  is  an  elasticity 
in  such  a  temperament  that  lets  down,  as  well  as  lifts  ; 
and  Lowell  not  infrequently  lapses  In  manner  and  ex- 
pression, causing  a  revulsive  twinge  In  the  reader.  No 
serious  poem  illustrates  this  tendency  more  aptly  than 
"The  Cathedral,"  ^with  Its  large  design,  fine  sweep 
of  meditative  tone,  and  its  modern  yet  reverent  solilo- 
quies, uttered  within  the  dim  solemnity  of  lofty  arch 
and  shadowed  nave.    But,  as  If  the  theme  were  too 


45 
majestically  exacting,  Lowell's  Irrepressive  humor  lurks 
about,  and  scores  its  light  word,  sometimes  a  disagree- 
able surprise  to  the  feelings,  and  .which  we  wish  well 
out.  The  exalted  beauty  and  purpose  of  the  poem  add 
to  the  incongruity  of  this  lapsing  tone.  There  are  a 
number  of  passages  which,  by  their  startling  antipathies, 
disconcert  and  weaken  the  effect  of  the  whole.  Yet,  in 
spite  of  these.jthe  poem  is  rich  in  imagery,  and  powerful 
for  its  interpretation  of  moods  and  traditions.  I  do  not 
know  of  another  ambitious  poem  of  his  so  Irregular  In 
Its  execution,  so  strong  and  weak  by  turns. 

Wc  cannot  write  of  Lowell,  as  of  other  American 
poets,  that  he  has  a  prescribed  or  partial  vein  in  which 
he  works.  His  range  is  a  wide  one  ;  he  Is  a  poet  appeal- 
ing to  the  humanities  ;  a  bountiful  poet  of  nature, 
philosophical  in  a  bright,  sententious  way ;  a  poet  of 
fancy,  of  the  affections  too,  as  his  deep,  spontaneous 
verses  "  The  First  Snowfall "  so  beautifully  testify,  and, 
withal,  a  rare  genius  that  can  respond  grandly  to  a 
great  occasion.  Occasional  poems,  as  a  rule,  are  with- 
out pre-eminence.  They  frequently  suggest  a  knack, 
exhibit  an  aptitude  for  filling  an  appointment  creditably 
on  proper  notice,  yet  seldom  burn  with  genuine  flame. 
But  where  do  we  read  a  poem  charged  with  such  eleva- 
tion, such  inspiration,  and  crowned  with  a  nimbus 
like,  "The  Harvard  Commemoration  Ode"?  "What 
organ  tones  are  here  !  The  theme,  the  occasion,  and  the 
poet  are  at  one  ;  it  has  the  unquestionable  sign  of  great- 
ness ;  eulogistic  in  cast  and  spirit,  but  without  the  sins 
of  eulogistic  redundancy.  The  war  sounds  were 
silenced  when  Lowell  wrote  this  ode.  A  million  graves 
had  been  freshly  made,  in  one  of  which  slept  the 
martyred  President.  The  "great  deep"  of  a  nation's 
heart  had  been  sounded.  A  million  homes  were  deso- 
late ;  while  the  nation's  life  and  honor,  preserved,  stood 
as  the  offset  to  this  desolation.  Lowell,  whose  whole 
nature  had  gone  forth  with  the  conflict,  now  felt  its 
pangs  as  If  every  bitter  weed  were  bis  to  wear.  Yet 
he  felt  the  triumph  as  if  every  fetter  had  fallen  from 
his  own  limbs.  In  this  supreme  tension  of  mind  and 
spirit  he  arose  to  a  splendid  achievement,  where  there 
is  heroic  passion,  largeness,  and  an  undaunted  sweep. 
It  stands  pre-eminent,  unrivaled,  among  our  war  or 
post-war  poems,  beautiful  for  its  grand  pathos,  as  for 
its  artistic  structure  and  free  movement. 

The  passages  which  I  would  quote  If  I  had  space 
would  illustrate  how  wholly  modern  in  impulse,  how 
free  from  the  stilted  rhetoric  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
or  opposed  to  the  overdone  classical  tedlousness  of  the 
Imitators,  is  this  poem.  It  was  not  made,  it  was  a 
true  interpretation,  written  when  the  pulse  of  a  nation 
was  beating  time,  and  the  heart  of  the  poet  trembling 
with  emotion.  He  felt  its  full  compass,  he  felt  it  all. 
Art  is  pygmy  alone,  but  art  plus  the  soul  is  a  giant. 
Wo  have  said  that  Lowell  had  an -independent,  a  crea- 
tive, genius.  It  is  an  originality  which  goes  beyond 
manner  and  vogue,  though  these  are  of  it,  and  shines 
In  thought.  Originality  of  thought  is  not  new  thought, 
indeed  ;  but  it  is  the  illumining  of  the  old  with  new  or 
more  significant  meaning.  "What  is  new  is  not  true, 
and  what  is  true  is  not  new,"  is  as  true  to-day  as  ever. 
Yet  the  magic  of  a  poem  is  largely  imparted  by  the  indi- 
vidual ;  some  mark,  some  sign,  that  transcends  in  beauty, 
and  clothes  the  old  with  new  power,  beguiles  us.  Some 
things  take  their  value  from  the  fact.  Kepler's  rules 
relating  the  planets  and  the  sun  are  valuable  for  them- 
selves ;  their  scientific  accuratenees  is  their  beauty  and 
eloquence.  But  a  poem  flashed  from  the  imagination, 
ideal,   artistic,  inspired,  takes  its  color  and  its  atmos- 


09  © 

9  •£ 

2  ® 

^  a 
a 

aJ  e 

T3  £ 

v  2 

-  P 

g  "a 

2  £ 

a  « 

52  -a 


<e    to 


-j   is  a 

SOD  t- 

O    •?  *"^ 

>->   x  ^ 

°  £  o 

<s    ".  a 


9  -  *■" 
©    a    * 

V.    9>    a) 


a 


-    « 
§11 

g«  s 

09     hi 

■2    a    H 

*7  3  -3 


2  a  w  ^  o  o 


2  ►,-" 

a  x> 

-  a  to 

«  3  a 
to£  o 

|       5 


3  *•£ 

«  2  ■s 

S?5  § 

*o  S 

§  sjj 

a  a  - 
a "?  *2 

=>   o  ,2J 

°   P.15 
a 

o  •  2 

A   A 

*  .3   a 

o  w   * 

03 

'    a 


si  g 

.3   S   o 

a  2 

A    oo  "O 

"OS 

03      P>    "3 
OJ    -Q    rl 

OS    O    J 

a  «  a 


.s  SI 

111 

©   o   o 

>    2 

a       £ 

-a  2  o 

3  »  " 

-  a  * 

ti        a 

►>•£ 
a  *  ~ 

-  -P  u 
ao  © 

B  $  ** 

OJ     O     OQ 

<u  Ja    a 

• s  I 

•a  w  o 
5  oa 
a  «  H 
o    a 

S  »  "O 
o  «  a 

a  3    V 


*  «■  2 

o   &>>C 

a  oj 


o,  a  ^ 
■J3   o   o 

»  S  2 

aj       1*       M 

|s  P 


S  P 


Xi  a 


3  f 

2  & 
*  I  p 

o  fl  a 
8  S 


xi  £  S 
So™ 


,"   P   M   2 


o   a 


it  Is 


a 

Mi 

.2—3 

w  >a  «j 

u  a  o 
o  a  a 


%  s 


33  | 

**  a 

o  g 

-  w 


5»n3 
2  a 

a^ 

o  5 

3  a 

•as 


S-s  s  § 

2  -s  ©  g 

—    .  <  - 

05  __•  _   g 
u    a  n    3 


a 


t  *  • 

o    > 
•    a    O    _: 

H  *"  Jl  g 

2  <o  t» 

ou     S    ♦* 

*>  S  -i  ^ 

a  "^ 

aj   S    os 

o  e-c  ^ 

J    «    3    I. 

a  a  °.2 

■°  S^  i 

E"2^  1 

a  g  3^ 
a  5  3  9 


a  §  g 

"SB 

a  o  «- 
g  «  g 

to  a  . 
a  s^ 
•     3 

oi    »    O* 

►  1*3 

a  a  & 
ill 

1.  i 

2  ^  S 

.  a    . 


§^ 


«  33 

ja   a  «2 


bountiful  gifts  of  which  he  partakes,  but  lie  blends 
them  with  the  finer  gold  of  things  Ideal  and  Imagina- 
tive. He  does  not  dwell  In  the  rare  ether  of  Shelley's 
sublimated  thought,  elusive,  visionary  as  It  Is ;  sense 
and  time  possess  for  him  tangibility  ;  earth  is  solid,  not 
dreamland  ;  his  horizon  is  wide  and  human,  while  it 
glows  with  rays  from  the  "  Borderland."  His  scholar- 
ship is  servant,  not  matter;  modern  tendencies  and 
study  do  not  betray  him  into  losing  the  wealth  of  the 
world's  legends  and  traditions ;  he  searches  with  a 
generous  and  reverent  spirit  for  the  spoils  of  time,  and 
holds  lightly  the  modern  scientific  creed,  so  far  aa  it 
trenches  on  the  pre-emption  of  the  poet's  realm  ,  his 
mind  is  catholic  ;  'tis  open  to  the  four  winds,  which  bring 
to  his  ear  and  heart  the  harmonies  and  fragrance  of 
earth,  and  through  these  the  unspeakable  gift  of  song. 

Let  us  hope  that  with  his  release  from  the  official 
prison-house  of  diplomacy,  in  which  for  eight  years  he 
has  been  bound,  the  voice  well-nigh  silent  for  this 
long  period  will  break  forth  again,  giving  to  the  world 
some  final  confirmation  of  a  genius  which  has  already 
proved  its  peerage  with  "  the  Immortals  of  our  western 
choir." 


IN  HEMORIAM:  JAMBS  RUSSELL  LOWELL. 
hl£2~ph0~     «t  ouvTb.  dajta.       nh  itl-18*. 

toeeell  Lowell,  noted  for  (ha  brilliancy  of  his  genius, 
the  variety  of  his  endowments,  the  strength  of  hi*  character, 
end  the  aaope  and  efficiency  of  kis  work,  m  man,  patriot,  aad  poet, 
seed  a*  kw  Immm  to  Cambridge,  Aag.  15,  1861.  Ha  was  a  repre- 
ustsrii  i  Nsw  Eaglaader,  aad,  though  be  tuu  to  tinu  to  bo  almost 
ecennoaolstaa  to  kis  sympathies  aad  affiliations,  m  woll  as  world- 
wide hi  kis  fame,  ko  ku  always  keen  her  loyal  son. 

2.  Ha  was  kora  to  Cambridge  to  tko  house  which  was  bis  life- 
long kosee,  oa  tko  X2d  of  Fobrury,  1819.  Ho  was  tko  so*  of  Dr. 
Charles  Lowoll,  a  Unitarian  clergyman.  Tko  Lowolis  were  of  dis- 
tinguished eassstry  sad  English  descent.  Tboy  wora  prominent  to 
tka  early  history  of  Nsw  Esglend.  His  grandfather,  Judge  Par- 
aival  Lowoll,  waa  a  number  of  the  Continental  Congress  of  1781, 
aad  chief  jaatiee  of  the  first  oirenit  court  of  the  United  States.  He 
waa  efficient  in  securing  the  abolition  of  slavery  to  Maseeohusstts. 
F rends  Cebot  Lowell,  a  eon  of  Pereival,  wae  known  as  the  first  to 
discover  and  employ  the  enpplies  of  water-power  to  New  England. 
Lowell,  tka  kosy  ssannfaotnring  town  on  tko  M errimaa,  was  named, 
oa  this  aeeoeat,  for  him.  It  wae  hie  eon,  John  Lowell,  Jr.,  a  oonein 
of  Jaaaes  Basaall  Lowell,  who  foanded  the  Lowell  Iostitnto  to 
Beaton. 

8.  Tka  poet's  mother  wae  Harriet  Spenoer.  8he  waa  of  Sootoh 
descent,  who  loved  ardently  and  knew  femiltorly  old  romanee  and 
pastil,  and  whose  lore  was  only  shared  by  her  children.  Said 
Mr.  Lowell,  looking  bsokward  from  the  ventage  of  kis  manhood  on 
tka  kappy  aeeoeiationsof  his  ehildhood  :  "  A  mythology  that  broods 
ovar  na  to  our  cradles,  that  mingles  with  the  lnltoby  of  the  nnrse 
and  tka  winter  evening  legend  of  the  chimney-corner,  that  brightens 
day  witk  the  possibility  of  divine  encounters,  is  of  other  substance 
tkan  one  which  we  take  down  from  oar  bookcase,  sapless  as  the 
shelf  it  stood  on." 

4.  Tka  Lowell  komestead  is  near  Mount  Auburn,  Cambridge's 
kenutifol  silent  city.  The  house  is  square  and  three-storied,  painted 
yellow,  and  sat  among  English  elms,  which  give  it  its  name,— Elm- 
wood.  There  are  several  asms  of  land  appertaining,  where  are 
trees,  flowers,  and  birds,  aad  where  the  five  Lowell  children,  of 
whom  the  poet  was  youngest,  made  friendships  with  nature  that 
were  life-Lang. 

5.  In  tka  poet' a  koykood  Cambridge  was  a  town  of  quiet  and 


4  6  almost  suburban  lovslinees,  affording   to  the  ohildren  reared  within 

its  limits  many  of  the  delighte  of  the  country  itself.  He  was  sent 
first  to  a  genuine  district  school,  tbenoe  to  a  school  for  boys  to 
Cambridge,  from  thence  to  a  classical  and  preparatory  school  in 
Boston,  and  thenoehe  went,  at  the  age  of  sixteen,  to  Harvard.  He 
was  not  fond  of  mathematios ;  be  liked  the  languages,  and  found 
still  greater  pleasure  to  general  reading.  He  graduated  in  1838,  as 
olass  poet.  Many  man,  sinoe  become  eminent,  were  in  the  elaes ; 
among  them,  William  W.  Story,  the  soulptor  and  poet,  Rev. 
Nathan  Hale,  Hon.  George  B.  Loring,  and  Prof.  W.  P.  Atkinson. 
6.  After  collegiate  came  lew  studies,  and  Mr.  Lowell  received 
the  degree  of  LL.B.  to  1840.  He  opened  an  offioe  in  Boston,  but 
1  would  rather  write  tales  and  poems  than  briefe.  When  only 
twenty-one  he  published  a  book  of  poems,  "  A  Year's  Life,"  and 
in  1S44,  the  year  of  his  marriage,  a  second  volume.  These  little 
volumes,  though  holding  some  pieces  whioh  he  afterward  discarded, 
contained  muoh  that  wae  beautiful,  and  the  totter  held  two  or  three 
exquisite  poems,  familiar  wherever  his  verse  is  read,  one  of  which 
is  the  poem  "  My  Love."  This  was  inspired  by  the  poet's  young 
wife,  a  lady  of  rare  loveliness  of  person  and  ohareoter.  She  was 
herself  a  poet,  but  the  fragrance  of  her  stainless  life  and  loving 
deeds  is  sweeter  and  more  enduring  than  the  memory  of  her  poetic 
gifts.  There  is  not  in  English  literature  a  finer  portraiture  of 
womanly  character,  actual  or  ideal,  than  our  poet's  liana. 


7.  Btcitatitmr 


MY   LOV*. 


"  Not  as  all  other 
Is  she  that  to  my  soul  is  dear ; 
Her  glorious  fancies  come  from  far, 
Beneath  the  silver  evening  star, 
And  yet  bar  heart  is  ever  near. 

'  Great  feelings  hath  she  of  her  own, 
Which  lesser  souls  may  never  know ; 
God  giveth  them  to  her  alone, 
And  srset  they  are  as  any  teste 
Wherewith  the  wind  may  choose  to  blew. 

"  Yet  to  herself  she  dwelleth  not. 
Although  no  home  were  half  aa  fab. 
No  simplest  dnty  is  forgot, 
Life  hath  no  dim  aad  lowly  spot 
That  doth  not  in  her  sunshine  share. 


"  8hs i  doeth  little  kindnesses, 
Whioh  most  leave  undone,  or  despise ; 
Far  naught  that  sets  one  heart  at  ease, 
And  giveth  happiness  or  peace, 
Is  low-esteemed  to  her  eyes. 

"  Ska  hath  no  scorn  of  common  things, 
And,  though  she  seems  of  other  birth, 
Round  as  her  heart  totwinee  and  clings, 
And  patiently  she  folds  hsr  wings 
To  tread  the  humble  paths  of  earth. 

"  Blessing  she  is ;  God  made  her  so, 
Aad  deeds  of  week-day  holiness 
Fall  from  hsr  noiseless  aa  the  snow, 
For  hath  she  ever  ehanoed  to  know 
That  aught  wore  easier  than  to  bless  "  ? 

8.  Mr.  Lowell  early  began  to  think  seriously  of  literature  as  a  pro- 
fession, and  indeed  wee  engaged  to  it  more  earnestly  thsn  to  his  law 
business,  whioh  he  abandoned.  With  a  friend,  Robert  Cutter,  he 
attempted  the  publication  of  "  The  Pioneer,"  an  illustrated  mega- 
sine  with  some  distinguished  contributors.  It  proved  unprofitable, 
however,  and  was  given  up.  His  first  prose  work  was  published  in 
1845.  It  was  entitled,  "  Conversations  on  Some  of  the  Old  Poets," 
and  was  the  first  of  a  long  and  delightful  series  of  studies  to  liter- 
ature, anoisnt  and  modern,  which  have  enriched  American  letters 
for  all  times,  and  are  a  treasurer-  house  of  learning,  wit,  aad  witdom. 

6.  But  not  happiness,  nor  nature,  nor  his  studiss,  could  detain 
him  when  he  felt,  as  he  began  to  feel,  the  need  of  brave  voioea  to 
speak  for  the  oppressed.     Hs  bad  dsseribed  the  poet  as  one 


— "  to  whoa*  heart  his  fellow-man  ia  nigb,  ^  ' 

Who  doth  not  hold  hia  soul's  own  freedom  dearer 
Than  that  of  all  hia  brethren,  low  or  high," 

And  had  declared  :— 

"  They  are  alaTee  who  fear  to  apeak 
For  the  fallen  and  the  weak ; 
They  are  slaves  who  will  not  ohoose 
•  Hatred,  scoffing,  and  abate, 
Rather  than  in  ailenoe  ahrink 
From  the  truth  they  neede  must  think ; 
They  are  alaTee  who  dare  not  be 
Ia  the  right  with  two  or  three." 

10.  Mr.  Lowell  had  written  already  glowing  stanza  in  defenoe 
of  freedom,  and  in  warning  against  approaching  national  peril*. 
Bat  all  that  had  been  done  teemed  ineff  actual  and  of  little  worth 
as  weapon  or  argument.  He  determined  to  try  satire  aa  a  vehicle 
of  truth,  and  elite  with  patriotic  paaaion,  wrote  and  published  in 
the  Boston  Courier,  in  1847,  the  first  of  the  nniqae  and  inimitable 
"Biglow  Papers."  They  were  irresistible,  and  were  quoted  every- 
where. It  Was  while  the  Mexican  War  waa  in  progress,  and  their 
influence  in  modifying  public  sentiment  was  most  salutary.  They 
were  published  as  a  volume  in  1848,  and  have  never  lost  their  pop- 
ularity. In  the  tame  year  he  published  hia  well-known  "  Fable 
for  Critics." 

11.  In  the  same  year,  too,  be  published  the  noble  poem,  "  The 
Vision  of  Sir  Lannfal,"  with  its  fine  prelude  and  its  exquisite  pre- 
sentment of  the  secret  of  Christian  brotherhood  and  service. 

12.  In  1851  Mr.  Lowell  and  hia  wife  went  to  Earope,  hoping 
that  the  sea  voyage  would  restore  her  health,  then  failing,  but  aha 
died  in  1853.  In  1855  Mr.  Lowell  delivered  a  course  of  lectaree 
before  the  Lowell  Institute,  and  in  the  same  year  he  waa  appointed 
Longfellow's  tuoeeator  aa  professor  of  modern  languages  in  Har- 
vard University. 

13.  In  1857  the  first  number  of  The  Atlantic  Monthly  waa  issued 
with  James  Russell  Lowell  as  its  editor.  He  waa  at  it*  head  for 
five  yeirs,  and  subsequently,  for  nine  years,  he  edited  The  North 
American  Review.  The  civil  war  drew  from  him  the  second  ae- 
ries of  the  "  Biglow  Papers."  In  them  he  gave  invaluable  aid  to 
the  defenders  of  his  oountry, — nay,  was  himself  one  of  her  most 
valorous  and  effioient  helpers.  Nor  have  their  interest  and  their 
popularity  dimished  sinoe  their  purpose  was  accomplished.  If,  aa 
he  modestly  asserted,  they  are  not  "  Yankee  Portraits,"  they  pre- 
sent and  preserve  the  typical  New  England  character  at  its  beat,  hi 
mind  and  morals,  at  its  homeliest  and  home-likest  in  speech  and 
manner,  at  its  brightest  and  keenest  in  argument  and  humor. 

14.  In  1865  he  was  asked  to  write  a  poem  for  the  Harvard  Com- 
memoration Services,  but  answered  that  nothing  must  be  expected 
from  him.  But  inspiration  same,  unexpectedly,  and  a  day  and 
night  of  rapid  writing  completed  the   "  Commemorstioa  Ode." 

15.  This  ode  is  full  of  a  noble  patriotism,  quickened  to  passion) 
with  grief,  loyalty,  and  hop*.     He  asks : 

"  How  oould  poet  ever  tower, 
If  his  passions,  hopes,  and  fears, 
If  his  triumphs  and  his  tears,  | 
Kept  not  measure  with  hia  people  P 

"  'Tis  no  man  wo  celebrate, 
By  hia  country's  victories  great, 
But  the  pith  and  measure  of  a  natioa 
Drawing  force  from  all  bar  men. 

16.  "Be  proud!   for  aba  ia  saved,  and  all  have  helped  to 
aaveherl 
She  that  lifts  up  the  manhood  of  the  poor, 
She  of  the  open  soul  and  open  door, 
With  room  about  her  hearth  for  all  mankind  1 

"  What  were  our  lives  without  thee  * 
What -all  our  Uvea  to  save  thee  t 
We  risk  not  what  we  gave  thee. 
We  will  not  dare  to  doubt  thee, 
But  ask  whatever  else,  and  we  will  dare! " 


17.  In  1868  Mr.  Lowell  published  "  Under  the  Willows ' 
1869,  "The  Cathedral";   in  the  following  year.    "i«n 


My 


Books,"  and  "  My  Study  Windows."  In  1877  he  waa  appointed 
United  States  Minister  to  Spain,  and  after  three  years  of  service 
than  ha  was  sent  to  represent  our  oountry  at  the  English  Court. 
In  England  the  most  distinguished  honors  were  paid  him,  and  by 
all  classes.  The  worth  of  the  man,  his  rare  endowments  as  a  scholar 
and  genius,  and  most  of  all,  bis  helpful  manliness,  were  everywhere 
recognized  and  honored. 

18.  Mr.  Lowell  delivered  an  address  at  the  unveiling  of  the  bust 
of  Coleridge  in  Westminster,  another  at  the  dedication  of  the  me- 
morial of  Samuel  Pepys  at  St.  Olavea;  and  still  another  at  the 
Longfellow  Memorial  Services  at  Westminster.  In  1884,  he  gave, 
before  the  Midland  Institute  in  Birmingham,  Eog.,  an  address  on 
"  Democracy,"  regarded,  as  it  has  been  said  sinoe  his  death,  "  as, 
on  the  whole,  the  finest  interpretation  of  the  American  idea  whioh 
has  yet  been  made."  When  he  returned  to  America  no  expres- 
sions of  regret,  and  theee  were  numberless,  were  more  significant, 
and  none  touohed  him  more  deeply,  than  the  resolutions  passed 
and  presented  to  him  by  bodies  of  English  workingmen. 

19.  In  America  he  was  received  with  warmest  welcomes,  and 
with  graceful  poetical  tributes,  from  all  the  literati.  In  1886,  on 
the  6th  of  November,  he  gave  an  oration  on  the  two  hundred  and 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  Harvard  College.  It  waa 
scholarly  and  earnest,  abounding  in  oounsels  for  the  teacher,  the 
student,  and  the  man  of  affairs.     He  said : 

"  The  founding  of  the  first  English  college  here  was  what  saved 
New  England  from  becoming  a  mere  geographical  expression." 

"  They  (the  Colonists)  meant  that  their  venture  should  be  gain- 
ful, but  at  the  same  time  believed  that  nothing  oould  bs  long  profit- 
able for  the  body  wherein  the  soul  found  not  also  her  advantage." 

20.  "  I  think  that  a  wise  teacher  should  adapt  hia  tasks  to  the 
highest  and  not  the  lowest  capacities  of  ths  taught" 

u  Next  to  the  five  points  of  Calvinism,  our  ancestors  believed  ia  a 
college  education  ;  that  is  in  the  best  education  that  waa  to  be  had." 

21.  "  The  only  way  in  whioh  our  civilization  can  bs  maintained, 
even  on  the  level  it  has  reached,  ...  is  by  bringing  the  influence 
of  the  more  cultivated  to  bear  with  more  energy  and  directness, 
and  by  opening  more  inlets  to  those  indirect  influences  whioh  work 
for  refinement  of  mind  and  body." 

"  The  measure  of  a  nation's  true  suooess  is  the  amount  it  has 
contributed  to  the  thought,  the  moral  energy,  the  intellectual  hap- 
piness, the  spiritual  hope  and  energy  of  mankind." 

"  The  most  precious  property  of  culture  and  of  a  oollege  aa  its 
trustee  is  to  maintain  high  ideas  of  life  and  its  purpose." 

"  The  ii  fluenoe  for  good  of  a  highly  trained  intelligence  and  a 
harmoniously  developed  character  is  invaluable." 

22.  In  1887  Mr.  Lowell  lectured  before  the  Lowell  Institute;  ia 
the  same  year  he  published  a  volume  of  addresses  entitled  "De- 
mocracy," and  he  has  lately  revised  all  his  works. 

His  second  wife  had  died  in  England  while  the  poet  was  minister 
there,  and  sorrow  wore  upon  him.  For  a  year  or  two  Mr.  Lowell 
has  been  seriously  and  severely  ill,  suffering  with  a  most  cheerful 
patience.  He  died  on  the  14th  of  August,  1891,  universally 
mourned,  and  was  buried  at  Mt.  Auburn  two  days  later.  He  rests 
with  his  kindred,  not  far  from  the  grave  of  Longfellow. 

Dr.  Phillips  Brooks  and  Dean  Lawrence  conducted  the  service, 
add  President  Eliot  of  Harvard,  and  three  of  the  professor*, 
—Child,  Nortan,  and  Bartlott,— with  the  authors  Holmes,  Curtis, 
Hewells,  and  Craneh,  bare  him  to  hia  rest 

23.  ".They  love  truth  bast  who  to  themselves  are  true, 
Aad  what  they  dare  to  dream  of,  dan  to  do. 

—  Ah,  then  is  something  hen 
Unfataomed  by  the  cynic's  sneer, 
Soaaethiag-  that  gives  out  feeble  light 
1    A  high  immunity  from  Night, 
Something  that  leaps  life's  narrow  bars 
To  claim  its  birthright  with  the  hosts  of  heaven ; 
A  seed  of  sunshine  that  doth  leaven 
Oar  earthly  dullness  with  the  beams  of  stars; 

Aad  glorify  our  slay 


With  light  from  fountains  older  Hum  the  Day ; 

A  eon—haw  more  divine  than  we, 
A  gla  dness  ltd  with  Mitt  tarn 
A  vexmg,  ruiwaid-reachiBg  man 
Of  ■ana  more  noble  permaaaana ; 

A  light  aoroaa  the  aea, 
Which  bauMs  the  sonl  and  will  not  let  it  be, 
Still  glimmering  from  the  heights  of  nadagenerata  years." 
— JVo«  the  "Commemoration  Ode." 


48 


ai^THE  RUST  OF  LOWELL.        .^ 

T^iUcrneiantWrlleii  In  Favor  of  Placing 
It  in   Westminster  Abbey. 
U  1o  proposed  to  set  up  the  bust  of  Lowell 
in  W  slmi nster  Abbey.    There  will  be  a  cer- 
tain amount  of  protest,  on   the  ground  that 
the  Abbey   Is   for  Englishmen,  and   not   for 
foreigners;  also  on  the  ground  that  Lowell's 
position  in   letters  was  not  such  as  to  com- 
mand the  rltrbt  to  a  monument  In  the  Ab- 
bey.   There  is  no  other  objection   possible. 
As  regards  the  first,  anyone  who  advances 
literature    In    America     does   so    In    Great 
Britain     as    well.     The     converse    is     also 
tn;p.    Therefore,  If   we   admit    men  of   let- 
ters  to    the    Abbey    at    all,    we    ought    to 
admit     Americans     as     well     as     Rrlions. 
Whatever  else  wo  have  not,  our  literature  we 
do   have   In  con.moo.    For  the  second  ob- 
jection, consider  what  a  very  eminent  man 
Lowell  was.    His    writings    profoundly    af- 
fected his  own  people  during  the  civil  war. 
and  greatly  modified  opinions  here;  his  col- 
lected essays  may  compa-e  for  style,  fo.-deli- 
cacy  of  thought  and   criticism,  with    any- 
thing In   the  language;    he  occupied — with 
the    greatest    credit— the    most    Important 
foreign  post  his  country  has  to  bestow — that 
ot  Minister  at  our  Court;  if  his  poems  do 
not  rant  with  those  of  Wordsworth,  Tenny- 
son, Browning,  they  are  a   long  way  nbove 
the  work  of  our  minor  poets»  and  he  was,  if 
always  an   American,  always  an    English- 
man, too.    Ib    talking   with   him    one  per- 
ceived the  Puritan  ;  one  understood  the  Pil- 
grim Fathers;  one  went  back  In  Imaglna- 
lion  to  a  little  group,  embarking  fora  land 
v  here  they  could  hold  their  own  faith  on- 
'.Ksjurhed,  and   where  they  could,  also  un- 
ci: .  irhed,    forbid,    under   penalties   of    the 
whipping  post,  anybody  to  hold  any  otner 
fall  It.    There  are  not  so  very   many  Amerl- 
c\ns  or  the  old  stock  left.    Those  who  do  re- 
main are  the  strongest  allies  wo  have  for  the 
maintenance  of  affection  and  friendship  be- 
tween the  two  countries. 

There  Is  another  objection  which  must  be 
mentioned,  because  It  has  already  cropped 
an.  I  do  not  consider  It  serious.  One  man, 
representative  of  many  men.  write  to  ask 
why  we  should  bo  always  "truckling  to 
them  Yankees,1'  and  getting  nothing  Id  re- 
turn. My  friend,  let  us  be  very  well  assuied 
that  we  shall  get  nothing  at  all  iu  return. 
At  the  next  Presidential  elec'-ion  as  many 
insults  will  he  publicly  offered  to  this  coun- 
ny— a  friendly  country— as  ever.  In  order  to 
catch  the  Irish  vote.  So  much  we  expect, 
and  whatever  courtesies  we  offer,  we  shall 
not  be  disappointed  In  this  respect.  These 
things  have  nothing,  however,  to  do  with 
onrplaln  duty,  which  Is  always  to  behave 
with  the  urbanity  due  from  one  great  nation 
to  another,  to  take  no  notice  of  rude  speech 
and  to  perforin  those  acts  of  politeness  which 
one  gentleman  should  always  exercise  to- 
wards another  without  asking  whether  they 
wlllh»  returned  or  not.  We  will  put  up  this 
1 . u -=  t  to  Lowell,  because  we  are  bound  to 
do  so  In  acknowledgement  of  coustnshlp 
and  In  admiration  ol  a  great  char- 
acter. It  will  be  put  up,  though  from  every 
platform  In  the  States  every  speaker  Is  out- 
vying his  rival  In  malignant  abase  ot  tbls 
country  In  order  to  catch  votes.  We  do  not 
like  It;  we  feel  the  mischief  of  It,  tho  pity  of 
It,    I  he    neediessness  of  It.    In   private  our 


American  friends  mourn  over  it.  We  see 
what  might  bo  done  for  the  world— yea,  and 
shall  be  done — when  we,  once  for  all,  con- 
clude that  mighty  federation  of  which  we 
spoke  last  week.  Meantime  the  next  Presi- 
dential election  is  drawing  near,  and  I  dure 
say  tho  tall-twlstlng  of  the  lion  will  very 
shortly  begin.  Go  on  twisting,  gentlemen, 
but— In  tho  Abbey— silence.  If  you  please. 
The  organ  peals  ;  the  anthem  ring3  along  the 

arches,  and  the  echoes  repeat  It  from  pillar 
to  pillar.  There  walks  down  the  aisle  a  pro- 
cession, headed  by  the  dean  ;  one  draws  nsldo 
a  curtain.  Lo!  The  face  we  knew  so  well ;  the 
calm,  wise,  meditative  faco;  tho  broad  fore- 
head, tho  gray  beard,  the  soft  sad  eyes,  the 
sweet  mouth.  It  is  the  face  of  Lowell,  flush  ! 
noisy  domagogues.  One  moment;  let  us 
llwtcn  to  him  who  speaks  In  praise  of  our 
great  departed— ours,  my  American  friends, 
as,woll  as  yours.  You  havo  his  body;  wc.as 
woll  as  you,  will  keep  and  guard  his  soul. 
Walter  Besant. 


Latest  Literary  Essays  and  Addresses.  By 
James  Russell  Lowell  Boston:  Houghton, 
Mifflin  &  Co.  1892.  &o«fovt  f^ 
The  volume  In  which  Lowell's  last  essays  are 
garnered  is  almost  exclusively  of  literary  in- 
terest. To  an  unusual  degree  it.  is  a  students' 
book.  The  occasion  of  several  of  the  essays, 
meant  as  prefatory  to  other  matter,  limited 
their  scope  and  kept  tho  discursive  habit  of  the 
critic  somewhat  in  check.  Lowell  required  a 
largo  field  to  givo  him  the  natural  freedom  of 
movement  that  secured  the  best  results.  He 
was  not  analytic  in  method,  but  intuitive:  he 
illuminates  the  subject,  but  does  not  organize 
knowledge  about  it;  and  consequently  the  brief 
monograph,  which  most  demand*  solf-r>-stralnt. 
afforded  poor  facilities  for  his  genius.  The  niea- 
greuess  of  some  of  these  pages,  in  coutrast  to 
tho  common  abundant  overflow  of  his  mind  in 
discourse,  is  thus  accounted  for.  The  essay 
upon  "Richard  III.,"  for  iustancc,  look  up 
the  single  question  of  the,  authorship  of  tho 
play,  and  while  tho  topic  permitted  the  author 
to  writo  of  Shakspere's  general  characteris- 
tics he  wrote  fluently  and  delightfully,  with 
equal  penetration  of  thought  and  breadth  of 
treatment;  Lnt  tbe»e  hi  .!  ;■:  >  i.  au  i,  having 
Btated  tho  p  >iu1  of  view  md  •■'.  go.sl.crl  i 
general  firgtiniriit  hy  naniiiUj  tht  tests  of 
thenticiiy,.h<  loaves  tiin  muiu  (jueatipn  nt  loose? 
cud?  For  completeness,  for  conviction,  it 
•,v^  neces-ary  to  develop  tho  argument  and 
apply  tho  tests  in  detail,  but  to  do  this  '.vas  not 
consonant  with  his  habit  of  mind,  Tho  result 
is,  that  one  learns  Lowell's  doubt  whether 
iSlinkspero  wrote  the  play,  buthasjio  opportu- 
nity to  judge,  the  merits  of  the  case  without 
private  study. 

Tho  essay  on  Landor,  in  the  same  way,  is 
hardly  more  than  a  sketch  and  a  reminiscence. 
He  had  written  on  tho  main  subject  before. 
His  immediate  task  was  to  furnish  an  intro- 
duction to  certain  letters  of  Landor  published 
in  a  magazine.     The  slightness  of  the  occasion 


explains  the  character  of  the  paper,  which  was 
of  a  temporary  interest.  The  essay  upon  Mil- 
ton's '  Areopagitica  '  was  similarly  a  preface 
to  a  reprint  of  that  work,  and  the  one  upon 
"The  World's  Progress"  served  a  like  pur- 
pose. Interesting  as  each  is— one  for  the  cha- 
racterization of  Milton  as  a  man  alien  from 
his  age  even  in  dealing  with  contemporary 
politics,  the  other  for  the  view  it  give*  of  what 
impressionlscience  made  on  Lowell's  mind- 
neither  of  them  is  written  or  conceived  in  the 
large  manner  which  we  associate  with  their 
author's  ordinary  prose.  All  these  papers  re- 
flect the  lettered  ease  of  a  mind  no  longer 
strenuous  except  on  great  occasion ;  they  show 
the  scholar  among  his  books,  handling  his 
thoughts  with  a  certain  unconcernment,  con- 
tent to  let  them  go  as  they  come. 

In  the  three  remaining  essays  there  is  a  more 
marked  engagement  of  the  mind  with  the  sub- 
ject. Walton  is  treated  with  the  touch  that 
one  gives  only  to  a  favorite  author.  The  old 
angler's  personality,  his  timet  and  friends,  In- 
terested Lowell,  and  what  we  had  almost  called 
the  unliterary  charm  of  Walton's  phrase  and 
moods,  his  freshness,  felicity  that  seems  un- 
sought, his  generous  share  of  "  nature," 
stimulated  the  pleased  senses  of  the  critio  and 
drew  out  his  sympathies;  so  that,  in  this  in- 
stance, though  the  essay  was  also  originally  * 
preface,  it  takes  a  place  of  its  own  with  the 
other  studies  in  literature  which  make  up  thi 
body  of  Lowell's  work. 

Gray,  however,  is  the  author  of  whom  tht 
best  essay  Is  made  in  this  collection.  The  poet, 
both  in  his  personality  and  his  fame,  gave  "am- 
ple room  and  verge  enough"  for  Lowell's  dis- 
tinctive powers.  As  is  so  often  the  case  in  the 
long-familiar  essays  on  the  older  poets,  the 
critic  cannot  confine  himself  in  any  definite 
limits.  Ho  must  make  his  entry  through  a 
large  portal  and  discuss  the  whole  century 
before  he  has  time  to  remember  the  particular 
poet  he  is  to  meet  at  the  bar  of  criticism.  Gray 
is  out  of  sight  at  the  opening,  and  remains  re- 
cluse for  a  considerable  waiting-spell.  Mean- 
while the  eighteenth  century  is  surveyed,  its 
great  names  recalled,  its  traits  singled  out 
with  much  regretful  contrast  of  past  and  pre- 
sent humorously  thought,  and  from  paragraph 
to  paragraph  the  page  is  studded  with  those 
brilliant  sentential,  compact  condensations  of 
taste  and  judgment,  which  give  to  Lowell's 
best  prose  ite  air  of  world- wisdom.  A  more 
just  characterization  of  the  century  which  is 
the  puzzle  of  our  own,  and  which,  by  our  inep- 
titude to  understand  its  ways,  almost  convicts 
us  of  that  illiberality  we  most  zealously  shun, 
is  not  to  be  found ;  it  is  worth  chapters  of  lite- 
rary history  as  such  history  is  written  when 
that  period  is  treated  of.  It  is  brief,  but  com- 
plete and  exact,  though  broad.  Of  course  the 
figure  of  Dryden  is  large  on  tho  page,  since 
Lowell  never  resisted  the  desire  he  had  to 
speak  of  him,  just  as  he  always  brings  in  Ben 
Jonson  on  the  least  provocation;  but  when 
Gray  is  finally  reached,  the  special  study  of  his 
lifja  and  genius  is  conducted  with  the  acute- 
ness,  the'light  revealing  touch,  the  disinte- 
rested self-possession,  which  Inevitably  force 
the 'spirit,  whoever  he  may  be,  to  render  up 
the  tide  of  what  he  was. 

Gray  needs  to  be  treated  with  considerate- 
ness,  with  excellent  breeding,  for  otherwise 
tho  most  personal  phases  of   his  aristocratic 


and  retiring  nature  would  fail  of  their  effect. 
Lowell's  literary  manner  on  thla  occasion  is  at 
perfect  a*  an  actor's.  He  illustrates  Gray's 
character  by  the  Way  he  behaves  towards  him. 
We  do  not  undertake  to  say  that  this  is  con- 
scions  art;  it  is  probably  only  literary  instinct. 
But  the  issue  is  most  happy.  We  learn  the 
truth  about  Gray,  and  our  poet  is  not  discom- 
posed by  the  inquisition.  There  was  a  kind  of 
felicity  in  this  that  Lowell  was  master  of  in  all 
his  subtler  work,  but  the  secret  of  it  was  con- 
stitutional, or,  as  we  now  say,  tempera- 
mental. 

Akin  to  this,  so  well  illustrated  in  the  paper 
on  Grayt  is  the  indefinable  quality  that  escapes 
definition  but  not  perception  in  the  address  on 
the  Study  of  the  Modern  Languages,  by  virtue 
of  which,  while  defending  his  thesis  loyally 
and  better  than  a  more  partisan  supporter 
could  have  done,  Lowell  yet  conveys  the  im- 
pression that  he  has  half  the  truth  in  his  other 
hand,  and  even  playfully  lets  you  see  it  from 
time  to  time.  The  modern  languages  have  the 
field,  it  is  true,  but  if  courtesy  stands  in  the 
foreground,  honesty  looks  out  behind,  and  will 
have  to  be  reckoned  with,  amicably,  of  course, 
but  Justly.  The  orator  turns  the  silver  side  of 
the  shield,  and  makes  it  glitter  in  the  light, 
but  his  hand  is  on  the  dark  gold  behind,  and 
he  can't  quite  keep  his  eyes  off  it;  or,  to  drop 
metaphor,  let  us  say  that  here,  too,  Lowell 
makes  his  attitude  of  mind  express  a  large  part 
of  his  story.  In  this  address,  next  to  the  essay 
on  Gray,  Js  the  largest  portion  of  that  thought, 
now  practical,  now  profound,  which  especially 
distinguishes  his  last  words;  and  if  the  entire 
volume  is  less  rich  In  this  value  than  preceding 
ones,  it  is  their  light  that  casts  the  shade. 


"G,  MARCH  28,  1892. 


WALT  WHITMAN  DEAD. 


THE  "GOOD  OLD  GRAY  POET"'  SINKS 
CALMLY  INTO  REST.  ' 


INCIDENTS  OF  HIS  LAST  HOURS 


SKETCH  OF  HIS  LIFE  AND  TH.E  BOOK 
HS  WBGTS.  i^. 

— -53t> 

HOW   THE    POET   LIVED    AND  DIED 


THE  FUNERAL  SERVICES  TO  BE  HELD 
AT  TEE  TOMB. 


Walt  Whitman  la  no  more.  After  hover- 
ing between  life  and  death  for  tbe  past 
three  mouths,  his  death  occurred  at  ft 47 
"i  Saturday  evening,  at  his  bumblo  resi- 
dence. No.  S2S  Mlckle  street,  Camden,  where 
be  had  lived  for  a  bom  eight  rears,  and  where 
many  of  his  friends,  prominent  In  tbe  liter- 
ary and  professional  world,  have  visited  and 
cheered  np  the  venerable  and  beloved  poet 
In  bis  declining  years. 

While  be  had  been  eonflned  to  bis  room 
for  over  seven  montbs,  only  going  out  once 
or  twice  In  his  wheeled-cbalr  since  last  sum- 
mer, be  was  not  taken  seriously  111  until 
Wednesday,  December  16th.  when  be  bad  a 


49 

beavy  chill,  which  lasted  for  nearly  two 
hours,  leaving  him  in  a  very  weak  condi- 
tion, Irom  which  lie  occasionally  ralllea 
for  short  intervals.  It  was  only  a  few  days 
after  he  was  first  taken  with  the  chill  that 
pneumonia  was  developed,  and  slues  that 
be  had  taken  little  nourishment  at  a  lime. 

The  physicians,  state  that  tbe  prolonging 
or  bis  life  was  doe  largely  to  the 
strong  aud  vigorous  constitution  of 
the  man,  although  after  he  realized 
that  be  was,  indeed,  seriodSly  111,  ho 
did  not  by  word  or  gesture.  Indicate  that 
be  wanted  to  live,  and  during  tbe  earlier 
weeks  of  bis  Illness  be  remarked  several 
limes.  In  his  usual  characteristic  way:  "It 
don't  make  any  difference  wheher  1  live  or 
die,"  aud  seemed  perfectly  resigned, calmly 
awaiting  tbe  final  summons  to  another 
world. 

Several  tlmea  during  tbe  past  three 
montbs  bis  physicians  thought  that  final 
dissolution  was  near,  and  on  Christmas 
eve  It  was  not  thought  possible  tbat  bs 
could  survive  anotber  34  hours.  His  per- 
sonal friend  and  blograpuer,  Dr.  Bucaer,  of 
Canada,.  Dr.  Alexander  McAllister  and 
oibers  remained  at  tbe  house  all  or  tbat 
night,  expecting  deatb  at  any  moment,  not 
the  venerable  poet  rallied  and  grew  some- 
what stronger  during  the  week  wnlch  fol- 
lowed, but  be  was  able  to  take  but  very 
little  nourishment.  From  tbat  time  until 
Thursday  or  last  week  bis  condition  re* 
inalned  practically  unchanged,  and  bis 
nurse  was  almost  constantly  at  bis  bedside, 
attending  to  his  wants  and  turning  blm 
from  side  to  side  whenever  tha  aged  bard 
expressed  tbe  desire. 

Ills  Last  Hours. 

Oh  last  Thursday  be  grew  very  restless, 
and  wanted  bis  position  in  bed  changed 
many  times  during  the  day  and  night. 

On  Saturday  afternoon,  at  about  4.30 
o'clock,  be  called  bis  housekeeper,  and 
signified  bis  desire  to  change  bis  position  in 
bed.  At  this  time  she  noticed  a  marked 
Change  in  his  condition, and  Or.  McAllister, 
Mr.  Horned  and  Mr.  Traubel  were  sent  for. 
Dr.  McAllister  arrived  about  6. 30  o'clock, 
and  fonad  the  old  poet  lying  on  bis  side, and 
It  was  then  plainly  noticeable  that  he  was 
nearlng  final  dissolution. 
.In  answer  to  a  query. from  Dr.  McAllister 
be  answered  faintly  tbat  be  felt  no  pain, 
and  when  the  doctor  again  asked  blm  it  be 
could  do  anything  for  blm  tbe  aged  bard 
murmured  aoftly:  "No."  He  then  lay 
quiet  for  a  short  time,  and  suddenly  asked 
for  his  housekeeper,  Mrs.  Davis.  She  ap- 
proached tha  bedside,  and  be  whispered: 
"Won't you  lift  me  dp?"  Mrs.  Davis  and 
the  nurse  changed  bis  position,  as  request- 
ed, and  he  remained  quiet  for  some  time 
then  wltn  bis  eyes  closed,  and  seemed  to  bs 
resting  easier.  Shortly  after  6  o' dock  be 
opened  his  eyes,  and  In  his  last  whisper 
said:  "Warty,  buIIL"  The  nurse,  Warren 
Fritzlnger,  carefully  changed  his  position 
again,  and  tbe  dying  poet,  opening  bis 
eyes,  smiled  faintly,  as  though  showing  bis 
appreciation  of  tbe  efforts  or  those  about 
blm  to  render  blm  all  tbe  comfort  possible 
In  bis  last  hours. 

Hodld  not  speak  after  tbls,  and  lay  very 
qolotly,  bis  respiration  growing  shorter  un- 
til 6. 43,  when  Dr.  McAllister,  wuo  was  bend- 
ing over  tbe  dying  poet,  carefully  noting 
eacb  breath,  pronounced  him  dead. 

About  fifteen  minutes  before  be  died  he 
opened  his  eyes  again,  and,  raising  one 
band,  grasped  bis  wrist  to  feel  for  his  pulse. 
Ue  held  it  only  for  a  moment,  abd  then 
calmly  felt  tbe  other  wrist,  apparently  per- 
fectly conscious  of  all  his  surroundings. 

Tbe  following  notice  was  placed  on  tbe 
front  door  Immediately  after  his  death: 

"tAJiDCK,  N.  J.,  March  JW.  *U2.— Whit- 
man began  sinking  at  4.30  1'.  M. ,  and  con- 
tinued to  grow  Worse  until  be  died,  at  C.4S. 
Tbe  end  came  peaoef  ully.  He  was  conscious 
until  tbe  last.  There  were  preseut  at  the 
bedside  Mrs.  Davis,  Warren  FrlUlnger, 
Thomas  U:  Harned,  Horace  L.  Trauble  and 
myself. 

"AL*XAinuEB  MoAiLisTift,  M.  D." 

Thomas  Eaklns,  tbe  well-known  painter 


of  Philadelphia,  and  William  O' Donovan,  a 
sculptor  or  New  York,  yesterday  made  a 
plaster  death  mask  or  the  deceased;  Mr. 
O'Dt'bovao  coming  from  New  York  la  an- 
swer to  a  despatch  for  that  purpose.  The 
work  occupied  about  four  hours.  The,  phy- 
sicians last  night  made  an  adtopsy,  the  re- 
salt  or  which  was  not  made  known.  This 
Was  in  accordance  with  tbe  desire  of  tbe  old 
poet,  wbo,  to  December  last,  gave  bis  con* 
sent  to  the  proposition  lu  tbe  interest  of 
science. 

HU  brother,  George  Whitman,  and  wife 
arrived  at  tbe  bonse  yesterday,  and  are  as- 
sisting lu  lbs  arradgements  for  tha  funeral, 
wblou  will  take  blace  on  Wednesday  after- 
noon  at  2  o'clock..  It  is  tne  Intention  to 
bare  the  remains  exposed  to  view  at  the 
bouse,  from  11  to  2  o'clock  on  the  day  of  tbe 
funeral,  and  tbe  services,  if  tbe  weather  will 
permit,  will  be  held  at  tbe  tomb  In  Hur- 
lelgh  Cemetery.  Dr.  Hucke  and  Robert  a. 
in^trsoll  are  expected  to  be  present  and 
make  addresses. 

Fur  a  number  or  years  the  old  poet  was  In 
tne  habit  ot  dining  on  Sundays  with  his  per- 
sona) friend  and  legal  adviser,  Thomas  11. 
Harned,  Esq.,  at  bis  residence  on  Federal 
street,  above  Broadway,  where  he  met  at 
dinner  many  men  of  prominence  In  the 
world  ot  letters,  os  well  us  in  the  legal  and 
oilier  professions.  He,  however,  had  not 
dined  at  Mr.  llurnea's  bonse  since  last 
si'tlug.  owing  to  his  enfeebled  condition, 

Tne  last  wilt  and  testament  oftbeaced 
poet,  made  nnd  signed  on  December  :141b, 
1*  now  In  the  possession  of  Mr.  Harned,  to 
whom  lie  gave  it  immediately  after  signing 
the  document.  On  January  1st  he  added  a 
codicil  to  toe  original  document. 

Tbe  bouse  In  wblch  be  died  he  purchased 
about  eight  years  ago,  and  has  since  lived 
there,  spending  very  much  of  his  time  in 
bis  "deu,"  a  room  comiortably  lormsbed 
aud  strewn  all  over  with  books",  papers, 
magazines  and  manuscript,  which, be  ouce 
remarked,  he  found  great  difficulty  In  keep- 
ing straight. 

The  last  letter  he  wrote  prior  to  bis  serious 
illness  was ono  to  Colonel  Roberto,  lnger- 
soil,  lu  answer  to  a  very  complimentary  ac- 
knowledgment be  had  received  lrom  Mr. 
ingersoll  on  tbe  receipt  of  bis  completed 
book  of  poems,  "  Lea vas  of  Grass." 
Hlw  Lust  Letter. 
The  following  Is  a  copy  of  tbe  last  letter 
written  by  Whitman,  uud  which  was  sent 
to  his  friend,  Dr.  Johnston,  Boltou, England: 
"Camdkn,  N.  J.,  U.  S.  America,  Feb. 
6,  1802.  —  Well,  I  must  send  you  all,  dear  fel- 
lows, a  word  from  my  own  band— propped 
up  In  bed,  deadly  weak  yet,  but  tbe  spark 
seems  to  glimmer  yet,  Tbe  doctors  and 
nurses  and  New  York  friends  as  faithful  as 
ever.  Here  Is  tbe  advertisement  of '82  edi- 
tion.   (Advertisement  appended.) 

"Dr.  Bucks  Is  well  and  bard  at  work.  Col- 
onel Ingersoll  has  been  here,  and  sent  a  bas- 
ket of  champagne.  All  are  good— physical 
condition,  <tc. ,  are  not  so  bad  as  yon  might 
suppose,  only  my  sufferings  muob  of  the 
time  are  fearful.  Again  I  repeal  my  thanks 
to  you  and  cheery  British  friends— may  be 
iho  last,  my  right  arm  giving  out. 

•  •Walt  Whxtkak." 
On  the  bottom  of  tbe  above  Was  appended 
the  following: 

"Feb.  7.— Same  condition  continued- 
more  and  more  it  comes  to  tbe  fore  that  the 
only  theory  worthy  our  modern  times  for 
great  literature— politics  and  sociality— must 
combine  all  tbe  people  of  all  lands,  and  not 
forgetting  tbe  women.  But  the  mustard 
plaster  on  my  side  la  stinging,  and  I  most 
*top.     Good-bye  to  alL  W.  W." 

\  During  his  illness  be  received-  many  tele- 
grams from  Inquiring  friends  in  this  coun- 
try and  also  on  tbe  other  side  of  the  Atlan- 
tic. One  of  the  cablegrams  was  lrom  tbe 
Whitman  Circle  at  Bolton,  England.  A 
large  amount  of  domestic  and  lorelgn  mall 
mailer  has  also  accumulated  dcrlng  bis  Ill- 
ness, much  of  which  yet  remains  undis- 
posed or. 

Many  met*  or  prominence  called  during 
his  illness  to  inquire  alter  bis  health,  but  be 
was  too  weak  to  see  tbem.  and  by  advice  of 


bla  physicians  they  were  nul  admitted  to 
th*  ilek  chamber. 

SKETCH  OF  Hit  LIFE. 

Walt  Whitman  ni  bora  at  Wat  Hill*. 
New  York,  oa  tbe  31»t  «X  May,  1819.  111* 
early  life  was  passed  in  New  York  city  and 
Brooklyn,  wbere  be  attendea  tbe  common 
school*  ol  that  day  and  waa  said  to  have 
been  a  bard  worker  and  an  apt  scholar,  mas- 
tering one  branch  of  stodr  before  taking  op 
another.  He  manifested  a  rreat  Uklng  for 
printing  offices  at  an  early  age,  and  waa  a 
great  reader,  eagerly  scuonlug  everything 
mutcsine  with lu  his  grasp  In  lbs  shape  of 
literary  work*. 

Kor  about  12  or  IS  years  or  lilt  yoang  man- 
hood he  wus  engaged  in  teaching  school  or 
working  in  printing  offices.  When  but  a 
boy  of  some  12  yean  be  entered  tbe  office  of 
tbe  Long  Itland  Patriot,  wbere  be  continued 
for  several  years,  and  during  that  time  con- 
tributed a  number  of  sentimental  pieces  to 
that  paper,  ills  nest  contributions  were  to 
tbe  New  York  Mirror,  published  at  that 
time  (1832)  by  George  P.  Morris.  In  writing 
In  late  years  of  his  early  contributions  to 
that  Journal  be  speaks  as  follows: 

>•!  remember  wltb  wbat  half-suppressed 
excitement  I  used  to  watch  for  the  big,  fat, 
red-raced,  slow-moving,  very  old  Engllsb 
carrier  wbo  distributed  the  Mirror  in  Brook- 
lyn, and,  when  I  got  one,  opening  and  cut- 
ting the  leaves  wltb  trembling  fingers.  How 
It  made  my  heart  doable-beat  to  see  ray 
piece  on  tbe  pretty  white  paper  la  nice 
type!" 

In  Journalism. 
Walt  Whitman's  advontbres  to  Journal-* 
Ism  are  thus  described  by  himself  in  au  ar- 
ticle which  be  contributed   to  the  Camden 
Courier  in  lis  Initial  number: 

■  •My  first  real  venture  waa  the  Long 
I*lan<ier,la  my  own  reautrfultownof  Hunt- 
ingdon, Long  Island,  New  York,  In  1839.  I 
was  about  20  years  old.  I  bad  been  teaoblng 
country  school  ear  two  or  three  years  In 
various  carl*  of  ourrolk  and  ftu^erui  comi- 
ties, but  liked  printing.  1  bad  been  at  It 
while  a  lad,  and  learned  the  trade  of  com- 
positor, aud  was  encouraged  to  start  a  paper 
in  the  region  where  1  was  born.  1  went  to 
New  York,  bought  a  press  and  types,  hired 
some  Utile  help,  b*ut  did  most  ot  tbe  work 
myself,  including  the  press  work. Everything 
seeiued  turning  out  well  (only  my  own  rest- 
lessness prevented  iny  gradually  establish- 
ing a  permaneut  property  tbere).  I  bought  a 
good  horse,  and  every  week  went  all  around 
the  country  serving  my  papers,  devoting 
one  day  and  night  to  lb  I  never  had  hap- 
pier Jaunts— gulng  over  to  Booth  Bide,  to 
Uabykiu,  down  tlio  Mouth  road,  across  to 
Smlthlowii  and  Comae,  and  back  home. 
The  experiences  of  those  Jaunts,  tua  dear, 
old-losbloned  farmers  and  tbelr  wives,  the 
slops  by  tbe  hay  uelds,  tbe  hospitality,  nice 
dinners,  occasional  evenings,  the  girls,  the 
rides  through  the  brush  and  the  smell  from 
the  salt  of  the  South  roads  come  up  In  my 
memory  to  this  day,  alter,  more  than  forty 
years.  Tho  Long  Itlander  has  stock  It  out 
ever  since— is  now  In  tbe  bands  ot  Qoarlea 
E.  Shepbard,  who  was  ooru  to  brevier,  the 
chase  and  tho  ink-bloak,  and  prints  tbe  best 
country  weekly  for  local  news  1  know  ot 
anywhere. 

"I  next  went  to  the  Aurora  An\\y  la  New 
York  city— a  sort  of  rree  lance.  Also  wrote 
regularly  for  tbe  Tattler,  an  evening  paper. 
With  these  and  a  little  outside  work  1  was 
occupied  off  aud  on,  until  I  west  10  edit  the 
Brooklyn  Eagle,  where  for  two  years  I  bad 
one  or  the  pleasautest  sits,  of  iny  life— a 
good  owner,  good  pay,  and  easy  Work  and 
hours  (it  came  out  about  8  o'clock  every 
afternoon).  The  troubles  la  the  Demoartftle 
party  broke  forth  about  tbose  times  (1848-49), 
and  I  split  off  with  ibe  Radicals,  which  led 
to  rows  wltb  tne  boss  and  'the  party,'  and  I 
lost  my  place. 

•  •Being  now  out  of  a  Job,  I  wasORefed  Im- 
promptu (it  happened  between  the  acta  one 
night,   in  the  lobby  of  the  old  Broadway 


50 

Theatre,  near  Pearl  street,  New  York  city), 
a  good  clmnce  to  go  down  lo  New  Orleans, 
on  the  staff  of  the  Crescent,  a  dally  to  be 
started  there,  wlih  plenty  ol  capital  behind 
it,  in  opposition  to  the  Picayune.  One  or  the 
owners,  Mr.  McClure,  who  was  North  buy- 
lug  material,  met  tue  walking  In  the  lobby, 
and, though  that  was  our  first  acquaintance, 
arterlo  minutes' talk  (and  a  drink),  we  made 
a  formal  bargain,  and  Mr.  McClure  paid  me 
•200  itu'Tu  to  bind  the  contract  and  bear  my 
expenses  to  New  Orleanw.  I  started  two 
days  afterwards;  had  a  good, leisurely  lime, 
as  tne  paper  wasn't  to  be  out  la  three  or  lour 
weeks.  I  enjoyed  my  Journey  and  Louisiana 
venture  very  much.  I  believe  the  Cretcettt 
Isun  Institution  tberi>  yet. 

••llutitrnlng   to  Jlrooklyn   o  ywtr  of   twev 
aflorward  1  started  [ho  Fr'cman,  first  ns  a" 
weekly,  then  daily,    l'rot'.y  Soon  thr  >- 
Blou  war  bro'.;o  out,  and  I,  io,>,  j;ot  dra\,  i-  id 
trio  current  southward,  aud  t-uciit.tuc  >al 
towing  t lues  yean  uier*. 

•  'Besides  starting  them,  as  aforemen- 
tioned, I  have  bad  to  do,  one  time  or  ton* 
other,  with  a  long  list  of  pspers/at  divers 
places,  sometimes  under  queer  circum- 
stances. During  the  war  tbe  hospitals  at 
Washlogton,  among  other  means  of  amuse* 
rcent,  printed  a  little  sheet  among  them- 
selves, surrounded  by  wounds  and  death, 
the  Armory  Square  (Jazet0.  to  which  I  con- 
tributed. The  same  long  afterward,  casu- 
ally, to  a  paper— I  think  It  was  called  the 
Jimplecute— out  In  Colorado,  where  I  stopped 
at  the  time," 

An  Army  Norse. 

The  work  to  which  Mr.  W hitman  referred 
in  tue  last  paragraph  was  his  experience  as 
a  volunteer  nurse  wltb  the  Army  of  the 
Potomac  at  Washington  from  1801  hntll  the 
close  of  the  rebellion,  In  which  position  he 
was  said  to  bave  been  one  or  the  toost  valued 
nurses  in  tbe  hospitals,  his  great  strength 
mentally  and  physically  and  his  uniform 
klbdness,  attention  and  patience  to  tbe 
wounded  soldiers  endearing  him  to  all  With 
whom  be  came  in  contact.  In  later  years 
be  has  always  spoken  Of  his  work  among 
the  wounded  soldiers  as  one  ol  tbo  greatest 
works  or  bis  life,  nod  one  ot  wblch  be  was 
very  proud.  Boon  after  the  War  be  was  at-' 
tacked  with  paralysis,  Whiob  boa  trouble* 
him  more  or  less  from  that  time  Until  bit 
death,  bat  never  seeming  to  afiect  bla  men. 
lal  faculties. 

From  18tt5  to  1874  he  held  a  Governmen 
positional  Washington,  until  recurrence  o 
his  paralytic  affliction  compelled  him  t- 
leave  Washington  and  locate  where  hi 
thought  would  be  to  his  benefit  physicaiJy. 
He  started  for  tbe  seashore,  bat  stopped  lo. 
a  lew  days  in  Camden,  and,  Uklng  tha* 
city,  coucluded  to  settle  there,  and  did  so. 
He  has  lived  for  a  number  or  years  in  ac 
unpretentious  boase  at  <"28  Mlckle  street 
wbere  he  was  surrounded  with  books  ano 
periodicals,  and  wbere  he  passed  the  greatei 
portion  of  his  time. 

A  lew  years  ago  he  was  presented  with  a 
horse  and  carriage,  and  on  pleasant  days  he 
enjoyed  long  drives  through  tbe  country, 
enjoying  the  beauties  or  nature  tbo  country 
afforded,  and  he  waa  never  tired  of  express- 
ing his  thanks  for  tbe  tbougbUnl  friends 
wbo  presented  to  blm  his  team.    When  be 
was  able  to  go  out  more  be  would  siroil 
down  to  tbe  ferries  and  would  ride  on  on*  of 
tbe  boats  between  Camden  and  Philadelphia 
a  number  of  trips,  watcblng  the  ferryboats 
and  other  craft  on  the  river  for  boor*  at  a 
time.    He  was  never  ot  a  communicative 
nature  on  such  occasions,  unless  approach**? 
by  some  one  whom  he  knew,  and  then  ht 
would  usually  answer  any  queries  In  mono- 
syllables only.    Ha  waa  always  very  cour- 
teous to  newspaper  man,  and  would   enter 
into  a  conversation  with  them  on  almost 
any  subject,  and  always  welcomed  them  t 
his  home.    He  became  very  sociable   wit 
some  of   tbe  crews  or  tbe  ferryboats  an 
seemed  to  enjoy  tbe  familiar  talks  he  woni 
bave  with  tbem  on  matters  oonnected  wit 
boating  on  tbe  Delaware. 

One  of  tbe  things  be  osed  to  take  great  fit 


Debt  In  was  to  give  th*  ferrymen  and 
drivers  presents  of  gloves,  and  on  some  < 
nights  he  bas  been  koowa  to  bring  so 
ferry  in   bis  pockets  several  pairs  of 
useful  articles,   and  belore  be  would 
for  homo  he  would  give  tbem  all  away, 
ceivlng  tbe  beartielt  thanks  of  tbeoo  I 
toll  for  his  kind  remembrance. 

Bis  Literary  Work*. 

Although  Walt  Whitman  was  a  ptolTf 
writer  be  leaves  behind  very  low  book!  t 
perpetuate  bis  memory.  Tbe  ohief  of  the* 
was  •  'Leaves  of  Gross,"  whiob  was  firs 
published  In  1855.  »  . 

•  •Leaves   ot  Grass"    was   republished   if 
1856,  1860, 1872,  1876  and  1882,  tbe  last  editlor 
belbg  enlarged  and  rearranged.    The  firs 
edition  is  now  very  rare  andicommands  higi 
prices.  ••Drum  Taps"  appeared  in  1866.  Hlr 
other  Works  Include  memoranda  during  th 
war.  published  In  1867;  "Democratic  Via 
tos, ' '  a  series  or  prose  essays,  1870  (this  hal 
been  republished  as  one  ot  the  "Cameiof 
series  In  England.  1883);  <  •After  AIL  not  tc 
Create  Only,"  1871;    "Passage  to  India}" 
1871;  " as  a  strong  Dlrd  on  Pinion*  Free," 
1872:  a  series  of  poemsr  including  ••Dem- 
ocratic Vistas,"  •  •Centennial  Bongs, "and 
•  •Passage  to  India,"  published  under  the 
tltl*  or  "Two  Ktvulets."  1870;  ••complete 
Works,"  In  two  volumes,  1878;  "Specimen. 
Days  and  Collect,"  1882,  and    "November 
Boughs."  1888. 

He  corresponded  for  some  tl  me  wltb  Alfred 
Tennysou,  but  ot  late  years  their  letters  nave 
been  lew,  owing  to  the  tact  or  Tennyson'* 
blindness,  which  compels  blm  to  hav*  hU 
writing  done  by  others.  Many  other  promi- 
nent people  were  among  his  friend*  and 
correspondents. 

Arooug  his  late  distinguished  victors  wo* 
Sir  Edwin  Arnold,  author  of  tbe  "Light  of 
Asia"  and  "Light  ot  tho  World." 
HI*  Tomb  Prepared. 

Tbe  old  poet  will  be  placed  In  tbo  recently 
completed  tomb  in  Harlelgh  Cemetery,  on 
the  outskirts  or  the  city  of  Camden,  a  spot 
•elected  by  Mr.  Whitman  when  he  was  en- 
Joying  bis  usual  health. and  where  h«  visited 
many  times  durlug  tbe  construction  of  the 
tomb.  ' 

The  Idea  of  me  tomb  was  his  own,  and  one 
his  friends  could  not  dissuade  blm  from.  He 
selected  bis  own  l>>t,  which  Is  la  a  portion  of 
tho  cemetery  known  as  Woodlawn,  and  the 
tomb  Is  built  la  the  side  of  a  bill  in  ibe 
grove.  When  asked  why  he  selected  such  a 
spot  be  replied,  ••!  would  rather  go  lathe 
woods." 

The  tomb  1*  a  substantial  structure  built 
of  massive  granite  blocks,  some  of  tbem,  It 
Is  said,  weighing  over  seven  tons. 

The  door  Is  ot  granite,  six  Inches  thick, 
and  measures  4  leet  2  loche*  In  width 
by  6  feet  4  Inches  in  height.  No  rods, 
bolts  or  other  fastenings  art)  used  in  tne 
structure,  tbe  four  corners  being  b*ld  to- 
gether by  Interlocking  or  morticing  the 
blocks  of  granite. 

The  only  metal  used  Is  the  heavy  hinges 
on  which  tbe  door  swings  and  the  massive 
brass  lock  that  secures  it.  Tbe  entrance  to 
the  tomb  Is  3  feet  6  inches  by  6  fret,  and  tbe 
vestibule  la  front  or  tbe  catacombs  is  11 
feet  8  inches  wide,  7  leet  deep  and  6  feet 
high. 

The  tomb  contain*  receptacles  for  eight 
caskets  or  coffins,  arranged  in  two  tiers. 
They  are  constructed  or  marble,  and  will  be 
sealed  with  polished  marble  slabs.  Tbe  roof 
la  also  of  granite,  the  top  piece  containing 
simply  the  name  Walt  Whitman. 

Tbe  poet's  wish  Is  that  the  remain*  ot  hi* 
mother,  wblch  are  burled  la  Evergreen 
Cemetery,  and  those  of  his  fatber,  buried  lo 
Brooklyn,  be  e vhumea  and  deposited  in  the 
tomb.  This  wish  will  Decompiled  wlta  by 
those  lo  whom  heontrusted  the  request. 


f-  .       Am  AtinrVan  Wall  YVhltntna. 

'  In  ihe  American  edition  of  "Tli"  Maclise  Por- 
trait Gallery  "  one  finds  the  following  foot  note. 
•Milled  "The  Walt  Whitman  Hoar,"  says  a 
correspondent  of  the  New  VorJc  Sun : 
?  "An  eminent  litterateur.  Mr.  W.  SI.  Kossettl, 
laid  a  runuins  plot  to  tost  the  gullibility  of  ine 
puttie  iu  matters  of  taste  and  criticism.  He  due 
'up  an'Amencan  'poet'  who  bad  never  written 
poetrr  in  his  lite,  and  in  all  he  had  written  was 
bombastic,  coarse,  conceited,  ana  isrovorent,  or 
cenerrxil j-  meaningless. 

*  Be  reprinted  him  In  England,  wrote  a  eulo- 
gistic preface,  and  engaged  some  really  clever 
fellows— Prof.  Dowden,  A.  C.  Swinbnrne,  Robert 
Bucbauan.  &c— to  aid  the  scheme  by  unstinted 
and  indiscriminate  laudation.  The  bait  took. 
Men  who  bad  never  read  Washington  Irving  or 
Whittier  echoed  the  cuckoo  cry.  and  '  Walt 
Whitman'  was  the  noblest  transatlantic  'tone' 
yet  beard. 

"Prof,  bay  ne  in  an  able  article  in  the  Contempo- 
rary Review  (December,  1876),  pretty  well  shook 
the  bean  out  of  the  puppet  '  poet,'  but  the  Im- 
petus be  trot  at  starting  still  carries  him  on.  and, 
lite  a  spent  ball,  be  may  jet  roll  on  languidly 
fortune," 

WALT  WHITMAH. 

What    Has    Been    Said   by    IHstlngalshed 

Critics  of  Uie  Good  Gray  l'o-r. 
[Prom  the  Supplement  to  Allltone't  Dic- 
tionary Of  Authors.] 
"Ic  him  we  meet  a  man  not  shaped  out  of 
Old  World  clay,  not  cast  In  any  Old  World 
mould,  and  bard  to  name  by  any  Old  World 
name.  In  bis  sell-assertion  there  Is  a  man- 
ner of  powerful  noncbalantncss  which  Is  not 
assumed;  be  does  not  peep  timidly  from  be- 
hind bis  works  to  clean  our  suffrages,  but 
seems  to  say,  'Take  me  or  leave  me,  here  I 
am,  a  solid  and  not  Inconsiderable  fact  of 
the  universe.'  Be  clisturts  our  classifica- 
tions. He  attracts  us;  bo  repels  us;  ha  ex- 
cites our  curiosity,  wonder,  admiration, 
love;  or,  our  extreme  repugnance.  He  does 
anything  except  leave  us  indifferent.  How- 
ever wa  feel  towards  blm,  we  cannot  despise 
him.  He  is -a  summons  and  a  challeog e. ' 
He  must  be  understood,  and  so  accepted, 
or  must  be  got  rid  of.  Passed  by  be 
cannot  be.  •  ■  •  fle  u  the  first 
representative  democrat  .  la  the  art 
of  the  American  continent.  Not  that 
be  la  to-  be  regarded  as  a  model  or  a 
guide;  great  principles  and  great  passion*, 
wttlca  must  play  their  part  in  the  future.are 
to  be  found  labia  writings;  but  these  have 
not  yet  cleared  themselves  from  their  amor- 
pnous  surroundings.  At  the  same  time,  be 
Is  before  all  else  a  living  man,  and  most  not 
be  compelled  to  appear  as  men  official  rep- 
resentative of  anything.  He  will  not  be 
comprehended  In  a  formula.  No  view  of 
bimcan  image  the  substance,  the  life  and 
movement  or  bis  manhood,  wblcb  contracts 
and  dilates,  and  Is  all  over  sensitive  and 
vital.  •  •  •  Aa  In  all  else,  so  with  re- 
gard to  the  form  of  what  be  writes,  Walt 
Whitman  can  find  no  authority  superior  to, 
himself,  or  rather  to  the  rights  of  the  subject 
wblob  engages  blm.  There  is,  as  Mr.  Bos- 
settl  has  observed,  a  very  powerful  and 
majestic  rhythmical  sense'  throughout  tola 
writings,  prose  and  verse  (if  we  consent  to 
apply  the  term  verse  to  any  of  tbem),  and 
this  rhythmical  sense,  aa  with  every  great 
poet,  Is  original  and  inborn.  Bis  works,  it 
may  be,  exhibit  no  perfect  crystal  of  artistic 
form,  but  each  Is  a  menstruum,  saturated 
with  form  in  solution.  He  lean  to  lose  tbe 
Instinctive  In  any  process  of  elaboration, 
the  vital  In  anything  wblcb  looks  like 
mechanism.  •  «  •  one  feels,  as  It  has 
been  well  said,  that,  although  no  counting  of 
syllables  will  reveal  tbe  mechanism  of  tee 
music,  tbe  rausio  ts  then,  and  that  'one 
would  not  for  something  change  can  with 
those  who  cannot  bear  it '  •  •  •  Never- 
theless, when  we  read  not  tbe  lyrical  por- 
tions of  Whitman's  poetry,  but  what  may 
ba  called  bis  poetical  statements  of  thoughts 


51 

and  things,  a  suspicion  arises  that  if  the 
lorm  be  suitable  here  to  the  matter,  it  must 
be  because  the  matter  belongs  rather  to  the 
chaos  than  the  kosmos  or  tho  new-created 
world  of  art. "—  E.  Dowden. 
'■  ••  One  great  anomaly  ot  Whitman's  ense 
ba*  been,  that  while  be  Is  an  aggressive 
champion  of  democracy  and  ol  tbe  working 
man,  la  a  broad  sense  of  the  term  working 
man,  hu  admirers  ba  vo  been  almost  exclu- 
sively of  a  class  the  farthest  possible  re- 
moved from  that  wblcb  labors  for  dally 
bread  by  manual  tabor.  Whitman  has  al- 
ways been  truly  caviare  to  tbe  multitude. 
It  was  only  those  who  knew  much  of  poetry, 
and  loved  it  greatly,  who  penetrated  tbe 
singular  shell  or  his  verses  and  rejoiced  lu 
tbe  rich  pulpy  kernel.  Even  with  connois- 
seurs. Whitman  has  been  6omewhatof  an 
acquired  taste.  A  cardinal  sin  lu  the  eyes 
of  most  critics  is  tbe  use  of  French,  Spanish 
and  American-Spanish  words,  which  are 
•ealterea  hero  and  there, as  ir  Whitman  had 
rd'them  up,  sometimes  slightly  incor- 
j  from  wandering  minstrels,  Cubans, 
— *  "-i-Hlves  from  one  of  Walker's  raids.  He 
crudely  tbe  American  way  of  lncor- 
..vint;  into  the  language  a  handy  or  high- 
sounding  word  without  elaborate  examina- 
tion ol  lis  original  rueau  lug.  Just  as  we  absorb 
tbe  different  nationalities  that  crowd  over 
from  Europe,  ills  thought  and  his  mode  of 
expf  e*si~a  ai <j  1  no  m ense,  oi °  en  flat,  very  often 
monotonous,  like  our  great  sprawling  cities 
with  their  endless  scattering  of  suburbs. 
Yet  when  onq  gets  the  •  hang '  of  It,  there  Is 
a  colossal  grandeur  In  conception  and  exe- 
cution that  must  finally  convluce  whoever 
will  be  patient  enough  to  look  for  1L  His 
rythm,  so  much  burlesqued,  u  all  ot  a  part 
with  the  man  and  bis  laeas.  It  is  appar- 
ently confused,  really  most  carefully 
schemed,  certainly  to  -a  high  degree  orig- 
inal. It  has  what  to  tbe  present  writer  is 
the  finest  thing  In  tbe  muslo  of  Wagner— a 
great  booming  movement  or  undertone,  like 
the  noise  of  heavy  surf.  •  •  •  He  cer- 
tatuly  represents, -us  no  other  writer  In  the 
world,  the  struggling,  blundering,  sound- 
bearted,  somewhat  course,  but  still  mag- 
nificent, vanguard  of  Western  civilization 
that  Is  encampod  In  the  Uulted  States.  "— 
JCsaays  from  The  Crliie,  177,  et  seq. 
'  "lu  spite  of  an  uneven  aud  emphatic  key 
ef  expression,  something  trenchant  and 
straightforward,  something  simple  and 
surprising,  distinguishes  bis  poems.  He 
has  sayings  that  come  home  to  one  like  the 
Bible.  We  fall  upon  Whitman,  after  tho 
Works  of  so  many  men  who  write  better, 
WTtb  a  sense  of  relief  from  strain,  with  a 
sense  of  touching  nuture,  ns  wlieu  one  pnsses 
out  of  the  flaring,  noisy  thoroughfares 
of  a  great  city  luto  what  be  blmselt  has 
called,  with  unexcelled  Imaginative  Justice 
or  language,  'the  huge  and  thoughtful 
night.'  "-R.  L.  Stevenson,  ••familiar 
/Studies  of  Men  and  Books, ' '  116. 


A  CHAT  WITH  DH  HOLMES. 

HOW  HE  RECEIVED  A  NEW  HAVENER. 


r.  0.   rertwcll  T.lis  ef  aa  Hear  That  Ha  Rscsat* 

ly    Sptat   With   the  "Aatecret  ef  the 

Breakfast   Table"— Bit   LiUrary 

Werk  laded— A  Story  ef . 

Cossaiodon    Hall. 


a  Bib  . 

ill   of    this    city, 


Frederick  H.  -Cogswel 
who  has  just  returned  from  a  abort  visit 
td"  Boston,  relates  with  pleasure  and  a 
feeling  akin  to  pride  that  the  most  memo- 
rable incident  of  his  trip  was  an  hour's 
chat  with  the  "Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast 
Table,"  Dr.  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes.  In 
recounting  his  experiences  lass  evening 
Mr.  Cogswell  said: 

"While  I  have  always  been  an  ardent 


admirer  of  Dr.  Holmes'  writings  it  was 
not  until  a  year  ago  that  I  acquired  a  per- 
sonal interest  in  the  doctor  'himself.  At 
that  time  I  sent  him  a  picture  of  Commo- 
dore Hull  and  a  picture  of  the  old  wai 
ship  Constitution  as  it  is  now.  Commo- 
dore Hull  is  ou»  of  my  ancestors,  end  be- 
ing interested  in  bis  career,  both  from  ■ 
genealogical  and  historical  point  of  view, 
I  traced  up  the  old  Constitution  to  Ports- 
mouth, N.  H.,  had  some  photographs 
taken  of  it  and  sent  one  to  tbe  author  of 
"  'Ayel  tear  her  tattered  ensign  down* 
"  'Long  has  it  waved  on  high.' 
"the  poem  that  undoubtedly  eared  the 
snip  from  destruction  by  the  naval  author* 
ities  at  one  time.  Dr.  Holmes  acknowl- 
edged the  receipt  of  the  pictures  in  a 
characteristic  letter,  which  afforded  me 
much  pleasure  and  gratification. 

Accordingly  last  Wednesday  when  I  was) 
in  Boston  1  made  up  my  mind  to  call  on 
Dr.  Holmes,  at  his  Beacon  atreet  residence, 
and  pay  my  respects  to  the  distinguished 
author.  1  sent  up  my  card  by  the  servant 
and  was  informed  that  Dr.  Holmes  would 
see  me  in  a  few  moments,  but  that  be  was 
now  engaged  with  soma  callers  from  a 
distance.  He  requested  me  to  take  a  seat ' 
iu  the  small  library,  near  tbe  hallway, 
and  here  1  waited  nearly  an  hour,  but  I 
would  not  have  minded  staying  longer  in 
that  room.  The  walls  were  hidden  on  all 
sides  by  bookshelves  laden  with  books, 
presented  by  the  authors  themselves  with 
their  autographs.  They  were  books  from 
nearly  every  author  of  any  importance 
that  has  lived  during  Dr.  Holmes'  life- 
time. Od  the  mantel  was  a  silver  loving 
cup,  presented  iy  his  last  medical  class  in 
Harvard  coll  ge. 

"'Finally  Dr.  Holmes  appeared  end 
showed  bis  visitors  the  door  himself, which 
indicated  that  they  wen  very  close  friends 
ot  bin.  After  bidding  ahem  'Good  bye,' he 
came  into  the  roum  where  I  was  waiting, 
extended  his  hand  and  apologised  far 
keeping  me  bo  long.  I  told  him  that  he 
must  be  very  tired,  for  it  was  then  nearly 
5  o'clock  iu  the  alternoon,  and  that  I 
would  call  some  other  day.  But  he  re- 
plied that  he  didn't  feel  at  all  tired  end 
invited  me  to  come  up  into  his  library  np- 
stalrs.  He  climbed  tbe  long  staircase 
with  mora  ease  than  would  be  expected  of 
a  man  of  82  yean,  and  on  reaching  the 
library  which  is  his  working  room,  he 
asked  me  to  be  seated  by  the  fireplace, 
while  be  took  a  seat  opposite  and  comfort- 
ably put  his  feet  on  the  fender.  As  hs  sat 
there  1  noted  that  he  was  a  little  man. 
physically,  with  a  email  but  finely  ahaped 
head  and  an  eye  of  unusual  brilliancy. 
There  were  few  wrinkles  in  his 
face  and  his  hair  was  snowy  white 
and  quite  tbin.  In  conversation  he 
was  very  animated.  He  immed.ately  re- 
membered the  pictures  1  had  sent  him, 
and  began  asking  questions  about  Com- 
modore Hull,  in  whose  personality  he 
seemed  greatly  interested.  He  told  about} 
the  dinner  which  was  given  to  Commodore 
Huh  in  Boston  alter  the  famous  battle  in 
1  12,  and  spoke  with  gnat  glee  of  tbe  com- 
modore's discomfiture  wheu  he  wee  ceiled 
upon  lor  a  speech.  The  allusions  to  him 
i  ad  been  very  complimentary  during  the 
diuner,  and  tbe  hero's  face  was  covered 
with  blushes  most  of  the  time.  Finally, 
in  response  to  repeated  calls,  tha  commo- 
dore arose  and  tried  to  say  something.  He 
'hemmed  and  hawed,'  as  Dr.  Holmes  ex- 
pressed it,  but  was  unable  to  finish  eay 
sentence  he  might  begin.  Finally  he  gave 
up  in  despair  and  exclaimed:  'I'd  tether 
fight  that  battle  over  again  than  to  stead 
here  and  make  e  speech!'  end  sat  down 
amid  tremendous  applause. 

"I  ref sired  to  tbe  fact  that  his  poem  on 
'Old  Ironside'  had  undoubtedly  saved  the 
old  'Constitution'  from  being  demolished, 
but  he  modestly  nf rained  from  endorsing 
that  statement.  He  said  that  some  yean 
ago  several  canes  were  sen  t^hi  m,  which  wen 
sawed  from  tbe  timbers  of  the  old  ship, 


wnile  being  repaired,  bat  he  bad  no  Idea 
of  what  had  become  of  them.  Ha  had  no 
recollection  of  giring  any  of  them  away, 
but  supposed  his  friend*  bad  helped  them- 
selves. He  said  he  presumed  very  little 
ot  the  original  ship  remained  and  I  told 
him  that  my  own  investigation  had  un- 
earthed the  fact  that  there  wee 
nothing  left  of  the  famous  ship 
bat  one  of  the  cat-beads.  He 
then  spoke  with  great  hnmor  of  the  idea 
of  people  visiting  the  ship  and  reverently 
gazinit  at  the  boards  and  timbers  which 
were  standing  in  a  ionst,  no  doubt,  at  the 
time  the  heroes  trod  her  decks.  Here  he 
recited  an  old  bit  of  doggerel  that  be  re- 
mem  bered  seeing  when  a  boy,  concerning 
the  surrender  of  Capt.  Dacres.  I  cannot 
recall  the  beginning  of  it,  bat  it  described 
the  great  humiliation  of  Dacres  as  he 
stepped  upon  the  deck:  of  the  victorious 
Constitution  and  offered  his  sword  to 
Hull  The  last  part  of  it  ran  like  this: 
"  'He  did  not  look  the  dandy.  Of 
"  Then  up  spoke  gallant  laaao  hull/ 
"  'Wbat  makes  you.  Decree,  look  so  dull?* 
"  'Cheer  upl  cheer  upl  We'll  go  below1 
"  'And  take  a  glass  of  brandy,  Uf 

"It  was  a  rare  treat  to  hear  Dr.  Holmes 
recite  this,  appreciating,  as  he  did,  the 
humor  of  the  situation.  The  conversation 
turned  upon  literary  matters  and  he  said 
he  was  at  present  writing  nothing  but  an 
occasional  le  ter  to  friends.  He  had  In- 
tended that  'Over  the  Tea  Cups'  should  be 
hie  last  published  work.  1'  expressed  m 
hope  that  such  would  not  be  case,  for  his 
powers  seemed  to  be  inexhaustible.  He 
said  he  felt  mentally  as  strong  as  ever, 
but  he  found  the  exertion  of  writing  very 
wearisome.  He  had,  however,  recently 
employed  a  secretary  and  with  chat  as- 
sistance be  might  at  some  time  yield  to 
the  impulse  of  fancy.  He  had  until  re- 
cently written  all  his  own  letters,  but  now 
his  secretary  did  that  for  him,  except  in 
the  matter  of  personal  correspondence 
with  friends. 

"He  evineed  his  lack  of  Interest  In  mag- 
azine literature  by  pointing  to  a  pile  of 
uncut  monthlies  that  lay  on  fje  table.  He 
said  be  did  not  subscribe  for  any  of  them 
but  they  were  sent  to  him  by  the  publish- 
ers. He  said  he  had  rarely  purchased 
books  of  late  years,  the  best  of  them  being 
usuaiy  sent  to  him  by  the  authors  or  pub- 
lishers. I  said  I  supposed  he  was  burden- 
ed with  the  manuscripts  of  young  writers 
who  desired  his  advice  and  criticism.  He 
replied  that  he  had  always  endeavored  to 
be  kind  to  the  young  authors  in  that  re- 
spect, bat  that  of  late  it  had  been  neces- 
sary for  him  to  decline  such  favors.  Ho 
spoke  of  this  as  though  he  regretted  hi* 
nabllity  to  render  each  "*'TTTinffti 
In  fact  it  seemed  to  me  that 
his  great  good  nature  must  have  been 
been  imposed  upon  in  this  way.  It  would 
take  too  lornr  to  give  you  a  full  account  of 
this  delightful  interview.  He  inquired  af- 
fectionately for  Donald  G.  MitcaeU,  our 
fellow  townsman,  and  de&ired  me  to  con- 
vey to  him  his  kindest  regards.  After 
nearly  an  hour's  conversation  I  arose  to  go 
and  the  doctor  made  a  movement  as  if  to 
rise,  bat  1  begged  him  to  remain  seated 
aud  allow  m-  to  find  my  own  way  out. 

"In  conversation  concerning  some  of  the 
old  families  of  Massachusetts  he  spoke 
witn  pride  of  his  descent  from  Gov.  Dud- 
ley aud  another  famous  governor  ot  Mas- 
sachusetts, and  also  the  Qaincy  family.  I 
could  not  help  thinking  as  I  walked  tow- 
nut  the  car  how  proud  the  most  distin- 
guished of  these  great  families  would  be 
of  this  their  most  illustrious  son." 


The  Newspaper  Side  of  Literatci**? 
— The  student  of  our  first  half-century  OT 
national  history  can  hardly  fail  to  be  i  rrt— 
pressed  by  the  nervous  directness,  exact- 
ness, and  consequent  force  of  the  Am- 
erican state  papers  of  that  time.  WhJc 
diplomatic  documents  in  every  other  purl* 


52 

of  the  world  were  marked  by  circuitous 
ness,  tergiversation,  and  a  style  too  s/tC- 
ious  to  be  classed  even  as  slovenly,  th« 
American  proclamation,  petition,  or  di- 
plomatic or  political  argument  was  qurti 
certain  to  be  marked  by  clear-cut  purpdie, 
masculine  vigor  of  expression,  and  close 
adaptation  of  words  to  ideas.  All  1MiS 
was  undoubtedly  due  to  long  and  intenie 
thinking  on  subjects  of  the  highest  im- 
portance to  the  thinkers,  and  to  a  some- 
what narrow  field  of  reading ;  restricted 
to  the  study  of  the  great  masters  of  Eng- 
lish style,  the  great  American  writers 
were  able  to  wing  every  word  with  an 
exact  understanding  of  its  purport,  and  of 
its  strongest  use.  It  can  hardly  be  pos- 
sible to  overestimate  the  educational  in- 
fluence which  must  have  been  exerted  on 
the  American  people  by  the  constant 
reading  of  their  own  political  literature  at 
a  time  when  there  was  little  or  no  native 
drama,  poetry,  or  history,  and  when  the 
attention  of  the  newspaper  reader  was 
concentrated  on  politics  and  state  papers. 
If  the  American's  reading  matter  was 
limited,  it  was  marked  by  dignity,  by  a 
freedom  from  meanness  of  conception  or 
treatment,  and  by  a  copious  supply  of 
sound  English  words  and  an  evident 
power  of  discrimination  in  the  use  of 
them.  Common  schools  may  have  been 
few,  colleges  poor,  and  universities  non- 
existent ;  but  the  documents  which  the 
scanty  newspaper  literature  of  the  time 
gave  to  the  people  were  in  themselves  an 
education.  Even  those  writings  in  which 
a  lack  of  thorough  early  training  is  occas- 
ionally betrayed  by  an  over-fondness  for 
long  words  or  labored  efforts,  through 
they  may  thereby  become  ponderous,  do 
not  become  turgid  or  inexact.  The  rule 
was  that  the  American  diplomatic  or 
political  writer  said  what  he  meant  to  say, 
and  said  it  in  the  fittest  words.  Buch  a 
process  of  popular  education  ought  to  go 
far  to  explain  the  completeness  with  which 
all  departments  of  American  literature 
finally  blossomed  forth.  The  people  have 
been  versed  for  years  in  that  which,  if  it 
was  only  one  branch  of  literature,  had 
been  bandied  in  a  manner  little  short  of 
perfection.  If  the  popular  literary  stand- 
ards were  few,  they  were  of  a  very  high 
order  and  of  a  kind  particularly  service- 
able in  the  direction  of  mere  show  and 
pretense ;  and  the  men  who,  in  other  de- 
partments of  literary  work,  were  at  last 
able  to  come  fully  up  to  these  standards, 
were  necessarily  men  of  such  power  that 
their  work  at  once  took  a  permanent  place 
in  the  literature  of  the  race.  But  not  all 
the  credit  should  be  given  to  the  ability  of; 
the  writers  ;  a  large  part  of  it  is  due  to  the 
existence  of  a  class  of  readers,  trained  to 
high  demands  by  the  quality  of  their  cur- 
rent reading,  furnished  mainly  by  the 
newspapers.  If  the  strength  of  the  new 
American  literature  was  drawn  from 
Shakespeare,  from  the  prose  of  Milton, 
from  the  English  translators  of  the  Bible, 
it  had  come  through  the  declarations  of 
colonial  rights  and  the  petitions  of  the 
Continental  Congress  to  the  king,  through 
the  Declaration  of  Independence,  the 
speeches  of  Patrick  Henry  and  Fisher 
Ames,  the  pamphlet  wars  of  Helvidius 
and  Paciflcus,  the  protests  against  search 
and  impressment ;  narrow  as  the  news- 
paper channel  had  been,  they  had  carried 
into  the  new  American  literature  its  full 
share  of  Shakespeare's  exactness  and  of 
Milton's  power. 


The  newspaper  of  that  past  gave  us,  in 
the  fullness  of  time,  a  literature  whose 
names,  from  Bryant  to  Prescott  and  Mot- 
ley, are  classic.  What  sort  of  literature  is 
our  popular  modern  newspaper  likely  to 
give  us  ?  It  would  be  unfair  to  ignore 
the  fact  that  some  of  our  newspapers  do 
exert  the  best  literary  influence  on  their 
readers  and  conscientiously  subordinate 
other  features  of  their  work  to  their  duties 
as  educators.  But  the  typical  modern 
newspaper,  to  meet  the  taste  which  it  has 
created,  must  surrender  whole  columns  to 
writers  who  aim  only  at  being  amusing, 
and  often  succeed  only  in  being  pert, 
slangy,  or  scandalous ;  and  it  must  find  or 
invent  "  news  "  items  which  have  about  as 
lofty  an  influence  on  the  minds  of  readers 
as  the  wonders  of  the  fair  had  on  the  mind 
of  Moses  Primrose.  A  continued  flood  of 
such  matter  is  not  to  be  offset  or  corrected 
by  an  occasional  brilliant  editorial  or  a 
half-column  speech  by  a  public  man,  or  a 
"  syndicate  "  story  of  a  good  writer.  And 
the  effects  are  cumulative.  Such  news- 
papers are  steadily  training  a  large  num- 
ber ot  readers  to  false  standards  in  the 
only  literature  of  which  they  have  close 
and  daily  experience;  and  tho  newspapers 

themselves  are  steadily  being  forced  to  on 
adoption  of  these  false  standards.  In 
brief,  the  newspaper  of  the  past,  by  reason 
of  its  lack  of  opportunity,  was  compelled 
to  restrict  its  readers  to  matter  of  perman- 
ent educational  value  ;  the  newspaper  of 
the  present,  through  its  superabundance 
of  opportunity,  is  too  often  training  its 
readers  out  of  all  knowledge  or  of  care  for 
educational  standards.  The  only  remedy 
which  can  be  suggested  is  in  that  which 
will  naturally  work  itself  out  of  a  general 
recognition  of  the  evils  to  be  corrected.  It 
can  not  but  be  that  the  American  news- 
paper shall  become  again  an  educating 
force,  higher  and  nobler  than  its  proto- 
type, whose  virtue  was  based  on  impot- 
ence. Notwithstanding  all  the  evil  tend- 
encies of  current  journalism — the  disre- 
gard of  accuracy,  the  irreverence, 
the  cruel  and  impertinent  gossip — there 
are  indications  which  are  highly  encourag- 
ing. The  fact  must  be  recognized  that 
not  all  the  successful  methods  of  the  im- 
mense dailies  are  bad  methods.  There  is 
a  certain  thoroughness  and  enterprise 
about  them  that  impresses,  and  which  will 
be  a  feature  of  the  management  of  the 
ideal '"newspaper  of  tho  future."  We 
noticcTalso  a  tendency  in  some  of  the  most 
sensational  of  these  papers  toward  better 
things — toward  a  certain  legitimate  "sen- 
sationalism." Manners  and  methods  have 
been  modified  under  an  increasing  sense 
of  responsibility  and  in  the  endeavor  to 
reach  a  solid  as  well  as  numerous  circula- 
tion. The  sensationaj  newspaper's  editor- 
ial page  already  often  shows  a  gravity  and 
pith  of  styles  evidencing  ability  and  con- 
science. There  is  a  growing  tendency  to- 
ward the  fearless,  generous,  and  public- 
spirited  discussion  of  living  questions. 
Let  us  hope  that  these  signs  indicate  a 
reaction  against  a  state  of  things  that  is 
deprecated  by  the  best  men  engaged  in  the 
profession  of  daily  journalism.— -Z7ie  Cen- 
tury Magazine. 


WALT  WHITMAN. 

Walt  Whitman,  "the  good  gray 
poet,"  a  sketch  of  whose  life  is  printed 
in  another  column,  was  a  strange  genius, 
who,  whatever  any  one  may  say  as  to  his 
writings,  has  won  a  place  in  the  litera-^ 


ture  of  the  world.  It  wasnotignoranceof 
rhetorical  roles  that  made  his  verses  un- 
couth and  rude.  He  showed  occasionally 
that  he  could  write  poetry  in  conventional 
form,  but  he  preferred  a  rode  style  of  bis 
own,  which  was  sometimes  forcible  and 
never  elegant.  His  rhapsodies  are  de- 
void of  rhyme  and  often  of  rhythm,  but 
the  thoughts  expressed  are  marked  by 
originality  and  are  occasionally  brilliant 
and  beautiful.  It  may  be  conceded  by 
those  who  do  not  like  to  read  him  because 
of  his  affected  lack  of  style  and  quaint- 
ness  of  expression,  that  .he  possessed 
poetic  thought  to  a  marked  degree,  and 
it  is  this  that  has  won  him  recognition 
never  given  to  more  mellifluous  but  less 
original  writers. 

Mr.  Whitman  was  a  very  earnest  man, 
independent  to  a  fault,  a  great  lover  of 
nature,  and  his  poems  reflect  these  char- 
acteristics in  their  matter  and  their  man- 
ner. Concerning  his  theory  of  poetry, 
there  are  wide  differences  of  opinion, 
comparable  to  the  disputes  over  Wag- 
ner's music  and  impressionism  in  art. 
W.  D.  O'Connor,  who  gave  him  the  title 
of  the  "Good  Gray  Poet"  in  1866, 
"pits  Walt  Whitman  not  only  against 
all  the  poets  of  the  day,  bnt  de- 
mands for  him  place  and  rank  beside 
the  great  masters,  Aeschylus,  Homer. 
Dante  and  Shakespeare/'  and  proclaims 
him  "  the  inspired  bard  and  prophet  of 
his  era  and  land."  In  contrast  with  this 
may  be  put  the  references  to  Whitman's 
poetry  as  "barbaric  yawps,"  and  the 
declaration  in  an  English  journal  that 
m  any  man  in  England  who  might  issue 
such  senseless  trash  as  Walt  Whitman's 
poems  would  be  considered  a  proper  in- 
mate for  an  asylum."  These  are  the  ex- 
treme views,but  the  writer  who  calls  forth 
such  eulogies  and  criticism  cannot  be 
without  some  kind  of  power.  The  truth 
seems  to  be  that  Whitman's  bluntneas, 
coarseness  of  expression  and  defiance  of 
the  ordinary  rules  of  poetical  composi- 
tion make  him  offensive  to  some  classes 
of  readers,  especially  to  the  highly  culti- 
vated but  unimaginative,  while  his  origi- 
nality, his  freshness,  the  force  with 
which  he  sometimes  expresses  bold  and 
original  thoughts  no  less  highly  com- 
mend him  to  another  class  of  litterateurs, 
who  care  more  for  ideas  than  lor  words, 
and  whose  imagination  fills  out  the  "im- 
pressionist picture  the  poet  has  made.* 

It  is  impossible  to  classify  Walt  Whit- 
man or  compare  him  with  other  poets. 
He  stands  alone,  having  established  a 
style  of  his  own,  but  may  at  least  be  ac- 
corded a  niche  in  the  temple  of  fame. 

EARLY  AMERICAN  LITERATURE. 
The  literary  growth  ef  a  people  occu- 
pied in  developing  the  resources  and 
strengthening  the  framework  of  a  rising 
State  is  necessarily  slow,  and  is  the  last 
phase  of  national  or  local  life  in  which 
the  people  themselves  actually  display 
an  interest.  After  the  Revolution  men 
began  to  interest  themselves  more  and 
more  in  the  circumscribed  little  newspa- 
pers of  the  day  which  slowly  but  surely 
grew  in  size  and  influence  as  the  people 
gradually  became  readers.  The  young 
Jansens  found  but  little  beyond  their 
own  school  text-books  to  afford  them 
reading  material,  for,  even  as  literature 


53 
advances,  the  requirements  and  the  en- 
tertainment of  the  children  are  the  last 
to  secure  attention.     But,   even  in  the 

homes  of  the  people,  two  young  authors 
of  the  early  days  of  the  century  found 
readers  and  admirers.  The  stories  of 
James  Fen imore  Cooper  and  the  graceful 
humor  of  Irving  penetrated  even  beyond 
the  circle  of  "the  aristocracy"  which 
for  too  long  a  time  had  monopolized  not 
only  the  refinements,  but  the  enjoyments 
of  culture ;  and,  though  the  readers  bore 
but  a  small  proportion  to  those  who  did 
not  read,  the  effect  of  the  literary  ad- 
vance was  each  year  a  more  potent  and 
apparent  factor  in  the  real  progress  of 
the  State. 

Old  Tennis  Jansen  the  elder,  as  he 
listened  to  the  story  of  that  marvellous 
character  in  fiction  The  Spy,  grew  in- 
terested and  excited  over  trie  memories 
of  the  Revolutionary  times  that  it  in- 
spired, but  he  grew  hot  and  wroth  when 
his  grandson  read  to  him  the  sharp  and 
racy  satires  of  Knickerbocker's  so-called 
History  of  New  York. 

"who  is  this  Diedrich  Knicker- 
bocker?" he  demanded.  "'Tis  all  lies, 
boy,  lies  that  he  is  telling.  Would  that 
my  grandfather,  old  Teunis  were  alive. 
I'll  wager  you  he  would  hunt  up  this 
scribbler,  and  serve  him  out  roundly  for 
his  scurvy  tales.  The  Hcer  8tuyvesant  » 
blockhead,  and  our  Dutch  forebears  knavef 
and  cowards  1  Ach  I  111  hear  no  more  o4 
it — but — yes — read  on,  lad — read  on.  Let'i 
hear  what  more  lies  this  blackguard  Knick 
erbocker  can  tell  1" 

The  old  man  "  pshawed  "contemptuous!;, 
too  at  what  he  called  the  "  po'try  trash 
of  Drake's  Culprit  Fay.  "The  idee  oi 
there  bein'  any  such  heathen  truck  as  a 
fairy  up  among  the  Highlands,"  he  said. 
"Why,  I've  hunted  them  over,  man  and 
boy,  these  fifty  years,  from  Cro'  Nest  and 
Anthony's  Nose  to  the  Botterberg  and 
Sugar  Loaf,  and  never  a  spook  or  fairy  did 
I  come  across."  But,  all  the  same,  the 
charming  rhythm  of  Drake's  delightful 
poem  did  have  its  influence  on  the  prac- 
tical old  grandsire;  and  trim  young  Sophie 
Jansen,  as  she  read  the  lines  he  saw  fit  to 
pooh-pooh,  laughed  slyly  as  she  noticed 
her  grandfather  keeping  time  to  the  rhythm 
of  the  Culprit  Fay  with  finger,  foot  or 
head. 

But  the  Jansen  family,  though  a  type 
of  the  "people"  of  their  day,  were  to  a 
certain  degree  above  that  type  in  their  love 
of  books  and  reading.  The  reading  habit 
had  not  yet  secured  the  hold  upon  the 
masses  that  later  years  brought  it;  and 
though  in  some,  even  humble  homes,  the 
works  of  Cooper  and  Irving,  of  Drake  and 
Hullcck,  of  Bryant  and  Vcrplanck,  of 
Brown  and  Sands  and  Hoffman  and  other 
now  unknown  and  forgotten  writers  were 
alike  familiar  and  popular,  the  "  literary 
following  "  was  in  a  measure  limited.  The 
bookstore  was,  however,  gradually  becom- 
ing a  feature  in  social  growth,  and  in 
many  a  small  town  and  thriving  village 
the  bookseller,  with  the  doctor,  the 
"  dominie,"  the  judge  and  the  schoolmas- 
ter, was  one ,  of  the  recognized  "  authori- 
ties." Books  were  then  too  few  to  be 
ranked  as  other  than  high  and  honorable 
merchandise.  They  were  luxuries,  acces- 
sible only  to  the  more  fortunate;  and  while 
there  was  too  apparent  a  laek  of  the  desire 
for  culture  among  the  people  in  general, 
there  was  also,  perhaps,  too  much  of  a  cer- 


tain churlishness  of  possession  among  the 
booksellers    themselves,    reminding    one 
Charles  Lamb's  "stall-man,"  who  cries  out 
to  the  penniless  reader  in  his  book-shop: 
"You  sir,  you  never  buy  a  book, 
Therefore  in  one  you  shall  not  look." 

But  each  little  village  had  its  coterie  of 
culture  and  in  all  such  circles  the  local 
bookseller  was  both  mentor  and  oracle. 
In  considering  the  growth  of  intelligence 
in  our  land  we  are  far  too  apt  to  forget 
the  bookseller  of  sixty  years  ago  as  one 
of  its  leading  and  most  honored  factors. 
The  glimpse  which  N.  P.  Willis  gives 
us  of  a  winter  at  Fleming  Farm  among 
"the  imprisoned  inhabitants  of  Skane- 
atoles "  in  the  lake  region  of  the  State, 
hints  at  this  growing  culture  in  even 
remote  and  isolated  sections.  He  tells 
of  the  old  library  of  the  Flemings — "a 
long  room  in  the  southern  wing  of  the 
house,  a  heavily  curtained,  dim  old  place, 
with  deep-embayed  windows,  and  so 
many  nooks  and  so  much  furniture  that 

there  was  that  hushed  air,  that  absence 
of  echo  within  it,  which  is  the  great 
charm  of  a  haunt  for  study  or  thought." 
The  Flemings,  he  says,  "  amused  them- 
selves during  the  deep  snows  of  winter 
with  a  manuscript  Gazette  which  was 
contributed  to  by  everybody  in  the  house, 
and  read  aloud  at  the  breakfast  table  on 
the  day  of  its  weekly  appearance." 
Such  intellectual  pleasures,  he  affirms, 
were  not  altogether  appreciated  by  the 
indigenous  beaux  of  Skaneateles,  but  it 
was  in  just  such  homes  that  the  intellect- 
ual growth  of  the  State  was  developed 
and  fostered.  From  just  such  a  home, 
in  Plattsburg  on  Lake  Champlain,  came 
that  most  precocious  of  American  girls 
— Lucretia  Davidson. —  Elbridok  8. 
Brooks,  in  The  Story  of  New  York. 


THE  WHITMANITES 


Interesting  Fellowship  of  the  "Good 
{       Gray  Poet's"  Followers. 

DEMOCRACY    IS  ITS    KEYNOTE 


These  Men  Worship  at  a  Literary  Shrine  and 

Accept  Members  Without  Restrictloa 

as  to  Sex  or  Color. 

Of  the  novel  organizations  which  exist  In 
Philadelphia  one  that  possesses  some  spe- 
cial features  of  Interest  Is  tho  Walt  Whit- 
man Fellowship.  In  scope  this  body  Is  In- 
ternational, actually  it  has  an  international 
membership,  but  In  conception 'It  Is  largely 
Philadelphlan,  and  Its  strongest  branch  is 
located  In  this  city.  While  Walt  Whitman, 
whose  personality  and  work  were  the  Inspi- 
ration for  the  Fellowship,  was  a  resident 
of  Camden,  Philadelphia  men  of  letters  and 
the  literary  following  generally  here  have 
always  considered  him  as  one  of  their  num- 
ber, and  his  frequent'  presence  in  Philadel- 
phia and  his  large  circle  of  friends  here 
whom  he  constantly  visited,  sustained  the 
claim.  Walt  Whitman's  work  has  been  va- 
riously criticised,  but  his  personality,  among 
those  who  came  In  contact  with  him,  ex- 
-citcd  only  admiration.  His  disposition,  his 
optimism  and  his  gentleness  made  him  be- 


loved  by  all  who  knew  him.  and  even  those 
who  most  seriously  combatted  his  views 
and  decried  Ws  method  of  expression,  there 
was  a  sympathy  lor  the  "good  old  gray 
poet"  which  was  warm  and  lasting.  The 
desire  to  perpetuate  his  memory  and  to 
forward  the  study  of  his  work  from  differ- 
ent points  of  view  naturally  resulted,  upon 
his  death,  therefore.  In  the  formation  of 
the  society  known  as  the  Walt  Whitman 
Fellowship. 

It  had  been  the  custom  for  some  years  pre- 
vious to  the  death  of  Whitman  for  a  little 
coterie  In  Philadelphia  and  Camden  of  thos<3 
who  manfully  and  sincerely  sustained  the 
rightfulness  of  the  poet's  work  and  who 
earnestly  admired  him  as  a  man,  to  meet 
upon  the  anniversary  of  his  birthday  and 
celebrate  the  occasion  with  a  supper  and 
.with  Informal  speeches,  of  w„hlch,  of  course, 
the  subject  was  Whitman's  poems  and  life. 
Upon  his  death,  March  2G,  1892,  these  ad- 
mirers of  Whitman  were  drawn  more  close- 
ly together,  and  the  meetings  assumed  the 
nature  of  those  of  an  organization.  The 
outcome  was  on  May  21,  1804,  the  forma- 
tion of  the  Walt  Whitman  Fellowship.  A 
constitution  and  by-laws  were  adopted, and 
a   regular  organization  effected. 

To  quote  the  phraseology  of  the ,  consti- 
tution: The  object  of  this  Fellowship  shall 
be  the  association  of  all  persons  who  are 
Interested  in.  the  life  and  work  of  Walt 
Whitman.  The  Fellowship  shall,  encourage 
the  formation  by  its  members  of  branches 
In  different  parts  of  the  world.  Any-  person 
may  become  a  member  by  declaring  himself 
such  to  the  secretary  In  writing  and  upon 
the  payment  of  the  annual  dues.  The  an- 
nual dues  shall  be  |2. 

A  committee  reported  a  choice  of  of- 
ficers, and  its  report  was  confirmed,  the 
following  being  selected:  President,  Daniel 
G.  Brinton,  Philadelphia;  vice-presidents, 
Robert  G.  Ingersoll,  New  York;  John  Bur- 
roughs. West  Park,  N.  Y.;  Richard  Mau- 
rice Bucke,  London,  Canada;  Thomas  B. 
Harncd,  Philadelphia;  Francis  Howard  Wil- 
liams, Philadelphia;  Isaac  Hull  Piatt,  Lake- 
wood,  N.  J.;  council,  Charles  G.  Garrison, 
Camden,  N.  J.;  Horace  L.  Traubel,  Cam- 
den, N.  J.;  John  H.  Johnston,  New  York; 
F.  H.  Maclntlre,  Philadelphia;  "Thomat 
Earlo  White,  Philadelphia;  Mrs.  L.  N. 
Falrchlld,  Boston;  Miss  Charlotte  Porter* 
Boston;  Henry  L.  Bo'nsall.  Camden,  N.  J,: 
Wayland  H.  Smith.  Philadelphia  and  Joseph 
Fels,  Philadelphia. 

A  large  increase  in  membership  was  at 
once  reported  and  the  Fellowship  began  Its 
existence  with  thirty-five  on  its  roll.  Among 
the  number  were  seven  women.  At  the  same 
meeting  Horace  Traubel  announced  the 
foundation  of  a  branch  In  Bolton,  England. 
An  idea  of  the  spirit  animating  those  who 
were  interested  In  the  purpose  of  the  Fel- 
lowship at  this  date  may  be  obtained  from 
the  greeting  sent  to  the  Philadelphia  body 
from  the  Bolton  branch.  It  read  as  follows: 

For  31  May,  '94. 
To  all  Whitman  Lovers,  Present: 

An  English  comrade's  greeting  and  love 
to  each  and  all. 

Some  of  our  most  advanced  and  select 
spirits  here  were  among  the  first  to  recog- 
nise Walt  Whitman's  stature.  But  now 
another  and  more  Important  advance  Is 
being  made. 

■  Giant  Labor  is  no  longer  quite  the  blind. 
Irrational  giant  he  was;  but  begins  to  see 
and  arouse.  Soon  he  will  advance  towards 
possession  of  his  heritage,  and  sit  on  the 
nlphrst  throne.  Already  he  has  heard  of 
Walt  Whitman  as  his  friend  and  brother 
and  supreme  standard,  and  is  learning  of 
him.  And  here,  in  the  North  Of  England, 
durlncr  the  last  six  months,  his  progress 
ha3  been  marked.  As  our  democracy  un- 
folds—here In  England,  there  In  America, 
find  elsewhere  abroad— our  great  democrat 
Will  be  loved  by  united  nations  with  a  pas- 
sion beyond  all  precedent.  As  one  Inly 
Sworn  till  death  to  his  cause  and  to  the 
cause  of  democracy,  I  send  you  a  comrade  s 
challenge  and  pledge.  J.  W.  WALLACE. 
The  provisions  of  the  constitution  of  the 


54 

Philadelphia  body  were  simple  and  few, 
and  the  requirements  for  membership  slight. 
The  organization  prospered  and  If  It  has 
nbt  grown  largely  In  the  last  few  years,  it 
has  made  up  In  enthusiasm  what  it  lacked 
In  size. 

The  annual  meetings  have  been  marked 
Invariably  by  a  spirit  of  the  greatest  good- 
fellowship,  and,  though  the  opinions  ex- 
pressed on  these  occasions  have  not  always 
agreed,  recognition  has  always  been  given 
to  the  fact,  so  plainly  Indicated,  that  free- 
dom of  speech  should  be  strictly  observed, 
and  personal  feeling  have  no  manifestation. 
Numbers  of  papers  have  been  read  at  the 
meetings  dealing  with  the  various  phases 
of  Whitman's  work,  and  considering  him 
from  different  points  of  view,  and  these 
papers  in  most,  if  not  all  cases,  preserved 
In  printed  form,  at  present  make  no  un- 
important addition  to  the  literature  on 
Whitman,  being,  as  they  are,  the  result  of 
close  study  of  the  poet  at  short  range. 

The  special  feature  of  the  organization  is 
Its  liberality  In  regard  to  membership. 
There  Is  no  restriction  as  to  the  age,  sex 
,or  color  of  applicants  for  admission  to  the 
Fellowship,  and  the  meetlngs^of  the  club 
are  attended  by  women  frequently.  Democ- 
racy In  almost  Its  primary  form  Is  the  key- 
note of  the  organization,  and  at  the  latest 
meeting  a  number  of  colored  men  were 
present  and  took  active  part  In  the  pro- 
ceedings. One  of  them,  indeed,  made  an  ad- 
dress, Impromptu,  on  that  occasion,  which 
was  declared  the  feature  of  the  evening. 
The  present  tendency  of  the  Fellowship 
seems  to  be  toward  a  development  of  radi- 
calism In  more  extreme  form  than  was  at 
first  suggested  by  the  character  and  pur- 
pose of  the  organization,  and  some  fears  are 
expressed  by  the  members  of  more  conser- 
vative tastes  that  this  will  lead  at  a  time 
not  so  far  distant,  to  a  departure  from  the 
original  alms  of  tho  body.  Whether  such 
will  prove  to  be  the  case  remains  a  ques- 
tion dependent  largely,  It  seems,  upon 
whether  the  Fellowship  permits  discussion 
to  take  pHce  that  has  not  Whitman  or  his 
work  for  Its  single  subject.  The  present  of- 
ficers are:  Francis  Howard  Williams,  presi- 
dent, Philadelphia,;  vice-presidents,  Robert 
G.  Ingersoll,  New  York:  John  Burroughs, 
West  Park,  N.  Y.,J  Richard  Maurice  Bucke, 
London,  Canada;  Thomas  B.  Harned,  Phil- 
adelphia, arid  Isaac  Hull  Piatt,  Lakewood, 
N.  J.:  Council:  Charles  O.  Garrison,  Cam- 
den, N.  J.;  Horace  L.  Traubel,  Camden,  N. 
J.;  John  H.  Johnston,  New  York;  F.  H. 
Maclntlre.  Philadelphia;  Thomas  Earlo 
White,  Philadelphia:  Mrs.  L.  N.  Falrchlld, 
Boston;  Miss  Charlotte.  Porter.  Boston: 
Henry  L.  Bonsall,  Camden,  N.  J.;  Wayland 
Hyatt  Smith,  Philadelphia,  and  Joseph 
Fels.  Philadelphia;  Horace  L.  Traubel, 
Camden,     N.  J.,  secretary  and  treasurer. 


PERSONAL    NOTES. 

Dr.  Oliver  Wandell  Holmes  li  S3  years 
old  today;  bnt  if  he  and  the  record  of 
his  birth  did  not  admit  as  much,  no  one 
who  looked  at  the  genial  "autocrat" 
would  believo  hint  to  be  an  ootogenariaa. 
His  form  Is  erect,  his  step  firm  and  active, 
eye  bright  and  his- whole  bearing  that  of 
a  man  in  the  best  of  health  and  spirits. 
The  Traveller  salutes  the  good  doctor, 
and  hopes  that  it  will  have  many  more 
opportunities  of  congratulating  him  on 
the  return  of  the  29th  of  August. 

BEVERLY  FAfi&b. 


Dr.  Oliver  Wendell  Holme*  At'nln  Hit 
HtiiX  Uli  thcluy. 

Beveki.y   Farms.   Aug..    29.— Eighty- 
two,  and  still  vigorous  in  mind  and  body ! 


This  can  be  said  of  Dr.  Oliver  \vendelt 
Holmes  who,  today,  is  receiving  callers 
at  his  attractive  summer  home  here;  and 
they,  one  and  all,  are  unstinted  in  their 
congratulations  to  the  "Autocrat  of  tbe 
B-eiiitfast  Table,"  on  his  coutinueu  i:ool 
health,  an  I  the  enjoyment  of  a  life  ip. 
which  he  haswrougnt  so  much  lasting 
«ood  for  in:; i.k: ad 

Hs,  it  can  truly  b  >  said,  has  not  lived 
for  himself  alone,  but  his  great  and  con- 
trolling i>  ir»^sK  has  been  to  make  others 
nappy,  lie  is  a  waa  not  ouly  of  rare  lit 
erary  attainments,  but  a  genius  and  a 
philusopli.; :  as  well.  Never  lias  he  given 
up  to  that  morbidness  born  of  bereave- 
ment and  loss,  nor  the  harboring  of  vain 
regrets,  but  he  has  overcome  the  world 
in  the  sense  that  he  always  has  stood  up 
and  out  as  a  characteristic  personality; 
and  an  admiring  world  has  paused  and 
ga-.ed  at  tho  picture  presented. 

It  is  almost  neediess  to  implore  for  Dr. 
Holmes  that  sweet  benediction,  so  ap- 
propriate for  one  travelling  down  the 
western  declivity,  "May  his  last  days. 
be  bis  bc3t  days."  \ 

All  who  called  rtpon  him  were  vert 
courteously  received,  and  they  departed 
impressel  with  the  influence  of  his  pres- 
ence still  lingering  about  them.  Among 
the  visitors  were  authors  aid  others  of 
prominencs  and  many  r.ch  floral  gifts 
were  seen  in  the  room.  A  large  number 
of  congratulatory  letters  were  received. 

Dr.  tlolmes  is  uti.iiing  some  of  hm 
t:roe  these  bright  summer  days  iu  com- 
piling and  editing  some  of  his  own 
works. 

A    POET'S    dfrrf-HLM^ 

Dr.  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  four  score  ani. 
two  years  old,  bnt  bearing  lightly  a  weight  of 
years  that  overburdens  ordinary  men,  on  Satur- 
day received  and  acknowledged,  with  that 
graceful  courtesy  peculiarly  his  own,  the  con- 
gratulations of  his  numerous  friends  and  ad- 
mirers who  could  visit  him  personally  at  his 
pictnresquo  but  unostentatious  home  in  Beverly 
Farms.  There  were,  to  be  sure,  certain  hours 
set  apart  for  the  reception,  but  notwithstanding 
this  there  was  durinr  the  whole  day  almost  a 
continuous  procession  of  admirers  passing  in 
and  out 

The  residents  of  Beverly  Farms,  especially 
the  children  by  whom  the  kindly  Autocrat  is 
greatly  beloved,  visited  him  in  large' numbers, 
many  from  far  and  near  bringing  some  token  of 
remembrance  and  all  receiving  a  most  courte- 
ous welcome. 

The  Writer  was  one  of  the  very  latest  visitors, 
being-  admitted  to  the  doctor's  study  at  about 
seven  o'clock,  just  after  he  bad  returned  from 
his  usual  afternoon  drive,  which  even  all  the  ex- 
citement and  turmoil  of  the  day  had  not  in- 
duced him  to  forego. 

"Yes,"  said  the  doctor,  in  answer  to  the  first 
and  most  obvious  question,  "I  must  acknowl- 
edge that  I  am  somewhat  tired.  There  has 
been  a  constant  stream  of  callers,  and  I  have 
been  standing  nearly  all  day  receiving  them. 
I  have  been  almost  overwhelmed  by  a  multi- 
plicity of  congratulations  and  a  wilderness  of 
beautiful  flowers.  Here  you  see  them.  They 
are  everywhere.  I  cannot  remember  all  of 
those  who  brought  them.  Many  of  the  donees 
I  know ;  many  others  I  do  not  know.  I  wish  It 
were  in  my  power  to  tnank  everyone  person- 
ally." 

And.  indeed,  the  study  presented  something 
the  appearance  of  a  deserted  flower  mart- 
Flowers  everywhere,  and  the  air  of  the  room 
heavy  and  almost  oppressive  with  their  per- 
fume. Other  tokens  of  remembrance  and 
esteem  were  on  desk,  table  and  mantel,  and  in- 
termingled with  all  were  cards,  letters  and  tel- 
egrams of  congratulation  from  all  sections  of 
the  country.  On  the  table  in  the  hall  was  a  large 
package  of  letters  which  yet  remained  to  be 


opened,  and  succeeding:  mails  will  doubtless 
add  to  the  accumulation. 

"What  paper  do  yon  represent?"  **Tb«  Tran- 
script." "Why,  that  is  my  paper.  And  by  the 
way,  it  come*  to  my  mind  that  the  Transcript 
has  met  with  a  loss  in  the  death  of  on*  of  its 
contributors—  Mr.  John  T.  Prince.  'Syphax'  of 
your  paper.  He  was  a  fine  antiquarian,  of  deep 
and  intelligent  research,  a  man  of  broad  and 
liberal  culture  and  a  most  estimable  gentlef 
man.  I  knew  him  well  and  would  bare  been 
glad  to  write  something  about  him;  bus  I  have1 
not  tbe  time." 

On  being  asked  if  he  could  giro  the  names  of 
those  who  had  sent  flowers,  he  said:  "I  aW 
sorry  I  cannot  recall  them  all.  I  will  giro  yoi 
what  I  remember,  You  are  at  liberty  to  look 
over  the  cards  and  find  what  you  can  Addi- 
tional. There  are  the  telegrams  on  the  desk 
which  you  can  copy  if  you  choose,'' 

A  search  among  the  confusion  of  cards  showed 
tbe  following-named  as  amour  tbe  callers: 
Major  Russell  Sturgris,  Hon.  Robert  S.  Rantoul, 
mayor  of  Salem ;  Rev.  Florence  K.  Kollock  of 
Chicago,  Rev.  Edwin  P.  Hoyt  of  Beverly  Farms, 
Mr.  William  P.  Upham.  the  well-known  histo- 
rian ;  Mrs.  Frank  Taylor,  Mr.  Franklin  Haven, 
Jr. ;  Mrs.  R  M.  Stewart,  Mrs.  James  T.  Fields,- 
Mrs.  Whitman,  Mrs.  J.  L.  Gardner,  Mrs.  Dr 
Shattuck.  Mr.  John  C.  Dodge,  and  many  others 
perhaps  equally  well  known. 

Prominent  among  the  floral  tributes  was  a 
basket  of  beautiful  roses  from  Messrs.  Hough- 
ton, Mifflin  &  Co.,  a  wreath  from  Mrs.  Whit- 
man, artificial  apple  blossoms  from  Miss  Whit- 
ney, flowers  from  Mrs.  James  T.  Fields,  Mrs. 
James  L.  Sperry.  Mrs.  John  L.  Gardner  and 
many  others.  Many  of  the  floral  gifts  were 
also  accompanied  with  fruits. 

These  were  the  messages  received: 

John  G.  Whittier:  Love  and  warm  congratu- 
lations from  thy  old  friend. 

George  W.  Child* :  I  send  the  neartiest  good 
will  and  best  loving  wishes,  my  dear  Dr. 
Holmes,  on  this  auspicious  day.  The  world  has 
been  so  much  the  better  for  your  birth. 

George  William  Curtis,  E.  J.  Phelps  and 
Charles  Eliott  Norton,  a  joint  message  from 
Ashfleld:  Love,  honor  and  congratulation. 

William  H.  Baldwin:"  Please  accept  my 
hearty  congratulations  upon  this  your  eighty- 
second  birthday  anniversary.  May  the  choicest 
blessings  of  heaven  ever  rest  upon  you  and 
yours. 

Moses  Sweetser,  Parkersburg.  Va. :  I  greet  yon 
on  this  your  eighty -Second  birthday.  May  yon 
have  many  more  happy  birthdays,  as  your  ad» 
mirers  will  always  remember  your  literary  and 
other  works  with  pride. 

A  gift  which  especially  pleased  the  poet,  end 
to  wutch  he  particularly  called  the  writer's  at- 
tention, was  a  Japanese  crystal  ball  resting  ou 
the  colls  of  a  bronze  serpent.  This  was  a  present 
from  lady  friends. 

"No,  I  do  not  remember  who  my  oldest  visitor 
was.  She  was  a  lady— I  cannot  recall  her  name. 
But  my  youngest  visitor— and  that  is  worth 
making'  a  note  of— was  five  weeks  old,  a  child 
of  Mrs.  Henry  Parkman." 

As  this  little  one  could  not  speak  her  congrat- 
ulations, the  following  message  was  supplied: 

"A  little  new  arrival  in  the  world  wants  to 
pay  her  best  wishes  to  Dr.  Holmes,  wishing 
him  many  happy  returns  of  the  day." 

But  it  was  now  nearing  eight  o'clock,  and  the 
writer,  [earing-  to  add  further  to  the  burdens  of 
the  day,  was  preparing  to  leave,  when  still  an- 
other package  came.  It  was  in  a  jewelry  case 
from  Daniel  Low  of  Salem.  "I  think  It  must  be 
a  witch  spoon."  said  the  doctor  as  the  attendant 
was  opening  it  He  was  near  the  mark.  It  was 
a  silver  paper  knife  with  the  mystic  woman  and 
her  broomstick  in  relief  upon  the  handle.  Then 
as  the  reporter  again  started  to  leave,  Dr. 
Holmes,  seemingly  still  anxious  not  to  be  con- 
sidered ungrateful,  dictated  the  following;, 
which  he  wished  to  have  published : 

"Dr.  Holmes  fears  that  it  will  be  impossible 
for  him  to  acknowledge  personally  all    the 


55 

tokens  of  good  will  and  acts  of  courtesy  with 
which  the  day  was  crowded." 

In  regard  to  the  poet's  health  the  public  are 
kept  fully  informed.  "I  cannot  see  very  well," 
often  repeated,  is  the  only  complaint  that 
passed  his  lips.  And  indeed  it  Is  sad  to  know 
that  those  kindly  old  eyes  which  have  done  so 
much  for  others  are  growing  dim.  But  it  will 
be  yet  another  decade  before  theauthorof  "'The 
Last  Leaf"  can  pose  as  the  model  of  the  poem. 
It  would  be  well  if  all  the  great  host  of  men  and 
womon  who  are  old  at  fifty  could  make  a  pil- 
grimage to  Beverly  Farms  and  take  object  les- 
sons in  how  to  grow  old  gracefully  from  the  sun- 
\y,  hopeful  spirit  of  the  venerable  autocrat. 


DR.    HOLMES    18    EIGHTY-TWO. 

Happy  is  the  poet  the  sun  shines  on  when  he 
reaches  a  birthday  like  this  one.  Eighty-two  Is 
a  good  age.  and  Dr.  Holmes,  though  of  the 
Brahmin  class.  Is  yet  blessed  with  friends  ga- 
lore among  the  masses  as  well  as  the  classes. 
Flowers  and  gifts  of  all  sorts  come  to  him  on 
these  festival  days.  The  birthday  receptions  in 
the  yellow  house  at  Beverly  Farms  by-the-De- 
pot  were  days  to  be  treasured  In  the  memory  of 
all  who  shared  their  pleasures.  The  plaln.yellow 
old-fashioned  house,  with  Its  big  grassy  lawn, 
knows  the  poet  no  more.  It  is  a  longlsh  walk 
from  the  station  to  the  house  where  he  lives 
now  during  the  summer  in  a  new-fashioned 
bouse  with  a  pleasant  vine-hung  porch,  with 
.its  odd  original-looking  chair,  its  sunny  library 
and  its  homelike  simplicity  and  taste. 

Young  anthers  have  a  way  of  plaguing  old 
authors  with  their  attentions ;  and  Dr.  Holmes, 
with  all  his  amiability,  dares  to  resent  some- 
times their  efforts  to  win  his  recognition.  One 
young  gentleman,  whose  books  have  since 
made  a  furor,  called  upon  the  doctor  one  day 
with  a  friend  whom  the  doctor  was  glad  to  see. 
But  he  would  not  pretend  to  be  glad  to  see  the 
young  man  who  wrote.  He  declared  to  his  face 
that  he  had  never  heard  of  him. 

"But  you  and  I  have  had  correspondence,' 
said  the  snubbed  young  author. 

"A  good  many  people  correspond  with  me  I" 
retorted  Dr.  Holmes. 

"I  'm  going  to  send  you  my  last  book,"  pacifi- 
cally offered  the  young  man. 

"Send  it  if  you  want  to.  I  '11  put  it  on  that 
table  there,  and  maybe  I  '11  read  it  and  maybe 
I  won't,"  declared  the  autocrat,  autocratically. 
Since  a  clever  prose  writer  once  fared  so,  ama- 
teur poets  who>  send  their  books  to  Dr.  Holmes 
would  do  well  to  remember  hfs  advice  to  them 
and  others  like  them : 
"No  will  of  your  own  with  its  pnny  compulsion 

Can   summon    the  spirit    that   quickens   the 
lyre :  »" 

It  comes,  if  at  all,  like  the  Sibyl's  convulsion. 

And  touches  the  brain  with  »' finger  of  tire. 

So  perhaps  after  nil  it  '*  as  well  to  be  quiet 
If  you  ve  nothing  you  think  is  worth  saying 
in  prose. 

As  to  furnish  a  meal  of  their  cannibal  diet 
To  the  critics  by  publishing  as  you  propose  1" 


Sept.  18,  1884. 


§  3  2.  &  a 

■  j>  •      ** 

2    c  ■«  JB    jo 


THE  AUTOCRAT'S  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. 

DR.  HOLMES  has  written  characteristic  letters  of  ac- 
knowledgment to  the  editors  of  the  "  Critic  "  and  to 
the  many  writers  who  contributed  of  their  gratitude  and 
admiration  to  the  "  Holmes  number"  of  that  admirable 
paper.  The  letters  need  no  other  introduction  than  the 
name  of  the  writer  : 
"Tt>  Us  Editor*  of  the  '  Critic:' 

"  The  visit  of  your '  Surprise  Party '  number  was  so  well 
contrived  that  I  had  not  tbe  faintest  suspicion  of  what  was 
going  on  until  I  opened  the  *  Dally  Advertiser '  of  August 
39,  my  birthday.  On  that  same  day  I  received  an  advanced 
copy  of  the  number  of  the  '  Critic,'  in  which  I  find  myself 
embalmed  like  a  Pharaoh,  and  built  over  with  a  pyramid  of 
famous  names.    My  letter,  which  you  print,  was  written  in 


STARTING    ON    HIS    333    TEAR. 

Though  Dr.  Holmes  celebrated  his 
82d  birthday  yeste.day  under  weeping 
skies,  they  could  not  repress  the  cheer 
and  warmth  of  feeling  tnat  lives  in  the 
heart  of  "The  Autocrat,"  nor  could  they 
repress  the  kindly  interest  which  is  felt 
In  him  by  tho  literary  people  of  two 
nations.  Dr.  Holmes  is  known  more  ex- 
clusively In  England  as  a  literary  man 
than  was  the  late  Mr.  Lowell,  but  in  the 
warmth  of  feeling  toward  him  his  re- 
cent "Hundred  Days  in  Europe"  shows 
that  between  Dr.  Holmes  and  Mr.  Low- 
ell there  was  a  generous  rivalry  in  Eng- 
lish appreciation  which  the  American 
people  keenly  and  rightly  appreciate. 
With  the  care  which  our  venerable  Bos- 
ton poet  is  taking  of  himself,  it  may  be 
reasonably  hoped  that  many  years  of 
iqulet.  happy,  genial  life  yet  remain  to 
him,  and  the  people  whom  he  has 
helped  to  "cheer  and  not  inebriate" 
yish  him  health  and  happiness  every 
moment  of  his  life.  More  than  most 
men  he  has  helped  to  make  existence 
pleasant  to  those  around  him,  and  the 
large  interest  In  his  personal  welfare  is 
one  of  tho  precious  returns  which  f.-.:.i^ 
brinas  to  tue  m.in  who  deserves  it. 

HAWTHORNE  ~WOlAD    NOT    INTRUDE. 

CAlwanJer  Ireland,  In  Manchester  (Et><r.)  Guardian.} 
Francis  Bcnnoch.nbrlght.checry  Scotsman, 
long  resident  in  London,  had  a  wide  circle 
of  literary  friends  and  acquaintances.  He 
win  the-  rloso  and  intimate  friend  of  Haw- 
thorne during  the  years  he  was  United  State* 
consul  in  Liverpool,  and  one  of  his  books  is 
dedicated  to  Bennoch.  "When  the  ever-mem- 
or  ililfi  Art  Treasures  Exhibition  was  held  in 
Manchester,  1S57,  he  invited  Hawthorne  to 
coinc  un  from  Liverpool  to  see  it,  and  kindly 
asked  the  late  Charles  Swain  and  myself  to 
meet  him  at  dinner  and  spend  the  evening 
together.  The  next  day  I  spent  entirely 
in  the  exhibition  with  Hawthorne,  where  a 
curious  coincidence  occurred.  While  we 
were  looking  at  the  pictures  of  the  old  mas- 
ters I  saw  Alfred  Tennyson  and  Worflner  the 
sculptor  enter  the  room  together.  I  pointed 
them  out  to  Hawthorne,  who  looked  long 
and  steadily  at  Tennyson.  I  said  to  him, 
"Will  you  not  speak  to  him  and  shake  hands 
Vth  him?"  to  which  he  replied,  "Oh,  I 
cpnld  not  do  that.  I  never  saw  him  before  ; 
it  would  be  obtrusive,"  etc  "Nonsense," 
said  I;  "ict  m«  go  to  him  and  tell  him  you 
arc  in  the  room.  I  am  sure  ho  will  be  de- 
lighted to  meet  you  and  exchange  greet- 
ings." "No.no;  I  cannot  allow  yon  to  do 
•  this."  I  again  remonstrated  with  him.  I 
urged  him  to  join  hands  with  Tennyson,  in 
spite  of  conventional  introductions  and  stnpld 
earthly  limitations  and  customs.  I  contend- 
ed that  tha  fact  of  their  being  in  the  samo 
room  and  within  a  few  insignificant  feet  of 
each  other  on  this  very  day  had  been  evi- 
dently ordained  from  the  beginning  of  time, 
and  that  It  would  be  a  wilfnl  thwarting  of 
the  designs  of  Providence  if  the  meeting  did 
not  become  an  actual  and  accomplished  fact 
—that  such  meeting  was  in  accordance  with 
thp  eternal  fiiness  cf  things,  etc.  All  to  no 
purpose.  He  was  inflexible.  So  these  two 
men  never  spoke  to  each  other  in  this  world. 
Curiously  enough,  Hawthorne  afterwards  re- 
corded in  his  journals  how  Tennyson  was 
pointed  out  to  him  on  this  occasion,  and  ho 
devotes  several  pages  to  a  minnte  and  elabo- 
rate description  of  him,  showing  the  quick- 
ness and  keenness  of  his  observation. 


56 

Referring  in  the  coarse  of  some  literary  recol- 
lections to  Nathaniel  Hawthorne's  visit  to  the 
Art  Treasures  Exhibition  held  in  Manchester  im 
1857.  Dr.  Alexander  Ireland  writes  that  a  cu- 
rious coincidence  occurred:  While  we  were 
looking  at  the  pictures  of  the  Old  Masters  I  saw 
Alfred  Tennyson  and  Woolner  the  sculptor  en- 
ter the  room  together.  I  pointed  them  out  to 
Hawthorne,  who  looked  lone  and  steadily  at 
Tennyson.  I  said  to  him,  "Will  you  not  speak 
to  him  and  shake  hands  with  him?"  to  which 
he  replied,  "Oh.  I  could  not  do  that.  I  never 
saw  him  before;  it  would  be  obtrusive,"  etc. 
"Nonsense,"  said  I;  "let  me  go  to  him  and  tell 
him  you  are  in  the  room.  I  am  sure  he  will  be 
delighted  to  meet  you  and  exchange  greetings." 
"No.no;  I  cannot  allow  you  to  do  this."  I 
again  remonstrated  with  him.  I  urged  him  to 
join  hands  with  Tennyson,  in  spite  of  conven- 
tional introductions  and  stupid  earthly  limita- 
tions and  customs.  I  contended  that  the  fact 
of  their  being  in  the  same  room  and  within  a 
few  insignificant  feet  of  each  other  on  this  very 
day  had  been  evidently  ordaiued  from  the  Be- 
ginning of  time,  and  that  it  would  be  a  wilfnl 
thwarting  of  tho  designs  of  Providence  if  the 
meeting  did  not  become  an  actual  and  accom- 
plished fact— that  such'meeting  was  in  accord- 
ance with  the  internal  fitness  of  things,  etc,  All 
to  no  purpose.  He  wm  inflexible.  So  these 
two  men  never  spoke  to  each  other  in  this 
world.  Hawthorne  afterwards  recorded  in  his 
journals  how  Tennyson  was  pointed  out  to  him 
on  this  occasion,  and  he  devotes  several  pages 
to  a  minute  and  elaborate  description  of  him, 
showing  the  quickness  and  keenness  of  his  ob- 
servation. ■ 

A    BOOK    UNFIT    FOR    SCHOOLS. 

To  the  Editor  of  the  Transcript:  Tho  ques- 
tion of  the  selection  of  suitable  text  books 
for  tho  pupils  in  our  publio  schools  is  one 
of  vital  importance.  This  liaj  been  brought  to 
notice  with  groat  clearness  recently  by  the  pub- 
lication of  an  "American  Literature,"  by  Julian 
Hawthorne.  The  fact  that  heretofore  there  has 
been  no  volume  on  that  subject  suitable  for 
school  use.  should  not  make  the  pnblic,  or  the 
school  boards,  accept  this  one  simply  because  it 
Is  the  only  one  in  the  market.  Any  teacher  on 
reading  it,  would  immediately  recognizo  its 
inappropriateness  for  school  purposes,  and 
any  other  person  who  might  read 
it  wonld  at  once  detect  the  egotisti- 
cal, severe  and  sarcastic  tone,  in  which 
Mr.  Hawthorne  criticises  our  most  beloved  and 
noted  authors.  One  can  scarcely  realize  that 
he  is  the  son  of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  and, 
moreover,  an  American  himself,  who  should 
be  justly  proud  of  the  work  of  his  countrymen, 
and  who  should  be  ready  to  inspire  In  the 
minds  and  hearts  of  the  children  who  read  his 
book,  a  feeling  of  reverence  and  pride  in  our 
great  men.  With  one  exception,  not  one  of  our 
noted  writers  escapes  his  unkind,  sharp  and 
nnappreciative  eritiolsm.  According  to  Mr. 
Hawthorne,  Lowell,  the  truest  Ameri- 
can, and  the  one  to  whom  the  first  place 
in  American  literature  is  due,  Is  "not  original." 
"has  a  vein  of  coarseness  in  his  nature,"  his 
work  is  hurried  and  careless,  an  d  there  are 
"striking  and  memorable"  passages  both  In  his 
prose  and  poetry,  "but  the  high  level  Is  never 
uniform  iu  anything  that  he  has  written ;"  the 
"Biglow  Papers"  are  "grotesque,  so  much  so 
that  it  makes  one  half  regret  their  notoriety." 
If  the  "Biglow  Papers"  are  not  original,  was 
ever  any  tiling  written  that  is?  Mr.  Hawthorne 
seems  to  have  missed  entirely  the  meaning  and 
purpose  of  tnis  work,  which  surely  should  be 
brought  out  to  the  youth  for  whom  the  book  is 
published. 

Our  dear,  delightful  Dr.  Holmes,  whom  every 
young  American  would  love,  and  whose  love 
should  be  encouraged— him  he  calls,  "not  great, 
but  what  there  is  of  him  is  good,"  Patronage 
from  Mr.  Hawthorne  is  scarcely  due,  at  least, 
until  he  has  brought  forth   something  equal  to 


Dr.  Holmes's  works,  to  say  nothing  of  reaching 
Lowoll's  heights. 

Wendell  Phillips,  says  Hawthorne,  "was  not 
a  patriot,  and  loved  talking  of  reform  better 
than  the  thing  itself."  Is  not  this  well  cal- 
culated to  stir  patriotio  feelings  in  the  hearts  of 
young  America?  Enough  dolls  are  stuffed  with 
sawdust,  nowadays,  without  needlessly  adding" 
another  to  the  list  Louisa  Alcott,  for  whom 
there  is  a  soft  spot  in  the  heart  of  every  Ameri- 
can man,  woman  and  child,  has  one  line  and  a 
half  devoted  to  her,  in  the  same  paragraph 
with  Ae'mlie  Rives,  and  a  few  others.  Henry 
Ward  Beecher  is  merely  mentioned,  and  Har- 
riet Beecher  Stowe  has  the  honor  of  having  her 
bodfc,  which  did  so  much  goo  d,  and  is  of  world- 
wide reputation,  called  a  "plausible,  emotional, 
impassioned,  one-sided"  story,  by  which  the 
credulous  public  were  duped.  In  his  treat- 
ment of  Margaret  Fuller  and  her  work 
Mr.  Hawthorne,  deserves  the  severest  criti- 
cism. A  frank  statement  of  opinion  in  regard 
to  an  author  is  admissible,  even  if  it  does  no 
entirely  coincide  with  our  own.  but  the  mean 
.sarcasm  and  personal  spite,  which  plainly  shows 
in  Mr.  Hawthorne's  article  on  Margaret  Fuller, 
Is  utterly  inexcusable,  and  not  fit  to  be  put  Into 
the  hands  of  children.  It  Is  known  that  the 
older  Hawthorne  and  Margaret  Fuller  were  not 
congenial,  and  the  son's  feeling  is  only  too  vis- 
ible. The  one  person  in  the  whole  book,  to  whom 
Hawthorne  gives  unqualified  praise  and  glory, 
is  hlsllfather.  Without  disparaging  Nathaniel 
Hawthorne's  greatness,  and  the  love  and  appre- 
ciation of  his  son,  is  it  not  fair,  to  question 
whether  It  is  right  to  give  fourteen  pages  of 
highest  praise  and  careful  consideration  to  him, 
while  to  Lowell,  confessedly  America's  greatest 
literary  genius,  but  four  pages  are  given,  and 
that  well  sprinkled  with  patronizing,  if  not  ad- 
Terse  criticism? 

Besides  all  this,  there  are  inaccuracies  in  the 
use  of  English,  and  in  the  subject  matter  itself, 
which  would  make  it  undesirable  for  school 
use;  and,  moreover,  the  book  is  beyond  the 
comprehension  of  those  for  whom  it  was  de- 
signed.    C.  W. 

With  Hawthorne. — "  You  shall  sleep 
in  Hawthorne's  own  bedroom,"  said  our 
hostess,  ushering  us  in,  and  we  went  up 
to  it  by  the  steep  old  staircase — a  charm- 
ing room,  with  low  cottage  widows, 
through  whose  latticed  panes  the  roses 
and  woodbine  peeped  in  to  greet  us,  while 
the  bobolinks  chattered  garrulously  on  the 
trees  outsides.  The  house  is  a  rambling 
one,  with  those  quaint  little  steps  up  and 
down  between  the  rooms  inside  which  not 
ungracefully  betray  an  architectural  after- 
thought. The  pitch  pines  and  locusts  and 
silver  birch  trees  that  now  surround  and 
close  in  the  house,  as  well  as  the  larch 
wood  that  clambers  up  the  stoop  behind, 
were  planted  for  the  most  part  by  Haw- 
thorne's own  band.  One  of  the  bushes  is 
itself  a  hawthorne  close  beside  the  pretty 
creeper-covered  porch.  Everything  in  the 
room  and  outside  it  seemed  to  us  alike 
beautiful — the  delicate  feeling  of  a  cultiv- 
ated and  artistic  home  informed  every  de- 
tail of  the  hanging  and  drapery.  We  felt 
that  Hawthorne's  house  has  fallen  into 
good  hands  and  that  no  tinge  of  its  special 
aroma  would  lie  allowed  to  escape  by  un- 
skillful treatment.  Dinner  and  gossip  in 
the  dainty  drawing-room  concluded  the 
Saturday,  and  on  Sunday  morning  we 
rose  fresh  after  all  the  fatigue  of  our  week 
in  Boston.  At  breakfast  we  were  intro- 
duced to  that  immemorial  New  England 
Sunday  dish,  Boston  baked  beans  without 
beginning  the  day  on  which  no  genuine 
Yankee  of  the  old  rock  could  ever  feel  his 
Sabbath  truly  sanctified.  I  cannot  say  I 
thought  highly  of  them,  perhaps  the  dish 


is  in  reality  a  penitential  one  meant  to 
assimilate  the  Massachusetts  Sunday  to  a 

Friday  fast  rather  than  to  a  dominical 
festival.  After  breakfast  we  strolled  out 
casually  into  the  grounds,  and  our  hostess 
led  us  through  tangled  undergrowth  of 
sweet  fern  and  blackberries  to  Hawthorne's 
path  along  the  crest  of  the  ridge.  There, 
on  his  Mount  of  Vision,  as  Mrs.  Hawthorne 
used  to  call  it,  the  Concord  dreamer 
dreamed,  says  Mr.  Bartlett,  as  many  un- 
written books  as  he  ever  put  on  paper.  His 
constant  pacing  up  and  down  as  he  worked 
out  the  details  of  The  Marble  Faun  and 
the  Tanglewood  Tales,  have  worn  a  last- 
ing footpath  on  the  brow  of  the  ridge,  from 
which  we  looked  down  upon  the  waving 
grassland  of  the  Concord  Valley.  Low 
hills  gird  it  round  on  every  side  with  al- 
most primeval  woodland;  in  the  centre  the 
narrow  alluvial  basin  itself,  deep  in  lush 
meadows,  makes  up  the  intrusive  wedge 
of  civilization  which  alone  has  yet  pene- 
trated solid  mass  of  Thoreau's  wild  and 
upsophisticated  forests.  Dark  pines  rise 
sombre  in  front  of  the  house  ;  evergreens 
climb  the  slope  of  the  hill  side.  The 
gloom  of  their  shade  seemed  redolent  of 
Hawthorne  ;  it  was  a  fitting  place  for  a 
man  to  meet  those  strange  mysterious 
witch-like  figures  that  flit  forever  through 
the  pages  of  The  Starlet  Letter  and  the 
subdued  light  of  the  paths  at  the  wayside. 
— Gkant  Allen  in  Fortnightly  Review. 


OLT/EB  WENDELL  HOLMES.  ' 
The  genial  Autocrat,  "  fall  of  years  ante 
honor,"  who  recently  celebrated  his  eighty- 
second  birthday  surrounded  by  many  ldy- 
ing  friends,  seems  certainly  to  have  solved 
the  problem  of  how  to  keep  the  heart 
young,  though  the  years  pile  "  snow  on 
snow  "  on  the  brow.  Age  would  have  no 
terrors  for  us  could  we  all  grow  old  so 
beautifully  as  has  Dr.  Holmes.  "  One  of 
the  boys,"  he  is  indeed,  for  his  sympathies 
are  as  quick  and  his  interest  in  life  is 
as  keen  as  when,  a  jolly  young  collegian, 
be  made  his  grave  elders  smile  by  "  writing 
as  fanny  as  he  could." 

One  would  hardly  think  that  the  sur- 
roundings in  which  young  Oliver  Wendell 
Holmes  was  brought  up  were  calculated  to 
produce  a  humorist.  The  atmosphere  of 
gloom  and  sadness,  of  puritanical  restraint, 
in  which  Hawthorne  grew  up  a  fatalist, 
and  from  which  he  drew  the  inspiration  of 
his  weird  romances  made  of  Holmes  an 
optimist,  a  happy,  sunny-natured  man.  A 
searcher  of  hearts  he  became,  indeed,  like 
Hawthorne;  bnt  his  searching  only  made 
him  more  confident  of  the  good  that  is  to 
be  found  in  every  human  soal.  His  father, 
the  Rev.  Ahiel  Holmes,  was  a  Calvinist  of 
the  deepest  dye,  a  scholar  and  a  gentle- 
man. His  two  sons,  John  and  Oliver.spent 
their  childhood  in  an  atmosphere  of  books, 
and  at  school,  though  their  "quips  and 
cranks  and  wanton  wiles"  showed  them 
to  be  a?  full  of  pranks  as  is  the  tradition 
with  minister's  sons,  they  both  distinguish- 
ed themselves  by  close  application  to 
study.  yy 

Like  Lowell,  young  Holmes  was  destined 
for  the  legal  profession  ;  but,  again  like 
Lowell,  he  was  inclined  to  neglect  his  pro- 
fession and  tarn  to  literary  pursuits,  and 
accordingly  left  the  law  and  went  to  Paris, 
where  he  studied  medicine.  His  fame  as 
an  author  has  in  a  measure  obscured  his 


57 
professional  success,  but  as  a  doctor  he 
has  done  faithful  work.  That  physiological 
problems  as  well  as  psychological  occupied 
his  attention  can  be  readily"  seen  from  his 
writings.  No  one  but  a  doctor  could  have 
written  "  Elsie  Venner."  The  subject  of 
heredity,  especially,  is  one  in  which  he 
takes  a  vital  interest.  A  physician  of  the 
old  school,  homeopathy  excited  his  liveliest 
opposition  for  a  number  of  years,  though 
indeed  the  allopathists  themselves  have 
received  from  him  unfavorable  criticism  on 
their  excessive  use  of  drugs. 

Tlie  class  of  "29,  which  Holmes  has  im- 
mortalized in  his  poem,  "The  Boys,"  were 
n  talented  set  of  young  men,  well  worthy 
to  be  his  companions.  Holmes  was  con- 
stantly chosen  by  them  as  class  orator,  and 
some  of  his  best-known  numerous  poems 
appeared  in  the  college  paper.  After  his 
graduation  he  kept  on  writing  for  a  few 
years,  then,  discontinued  literary  work  for 
some  time.  With  the  establishment  of 
the  Atlantic  Monthly,  in  1857,  he  once  more 
took  up  the  pen,  to  give  to  the  world  that 
brilliant  series  of  novels  and  papers  be- 
ginning with  the  "Autocrat  of  the  Break- 
fast Table ;  or  Every  Man  His  Own  Bos- 
well."  The  "Autocrat,"  "  Poet ".  and  "  Pro- 
fessor" have  been  styled  egotistical  by 
some  critics,  but  it  is  the  most  delightful 
egotism.  A  man  can  be  pardoned  for  die-t 
coursing  about  himself  who  talks  so  charm- 
ingly ;  and  as  the  Doctor  himself  said  to  a 
visitor :  - 

"  My  friend,  vanity  is  one  of  the  most 
useful  things  on  earth.  People  would  go  to 
pieces  but  for -it ;  it  keeps  them  together." 

Thanks,  then,  be  to  the  slender  thread 
of  self-conceit  which  holds  together  the 
pearls  of  wit  and  wisdom  which  drop  from 
the  lips  of  the  Autocrat ! 

Of  his  literary  work  on  the  Atlantic 
Monthly  the  Doctor  says  with  the  utmost 
simplicity  that  "  There  was  no  special  art 
about  it ;  it  was  merely  written  from  hand 
to  mouth.  I  thought  I  had  written  myself 
out,  but  I  waited  a  little  and  things  came 
of  themselves."  His  favorites  among  his 
prose  works  are  the  "  Autocrat "  and  "  Elsie 
Venner." 

In  1840  Dr.  Holmes  married  Miss  Amelia 
Lee  Jackson,  by  whom  he  had  three  chil- 
dren, all  of  whom  are  living.  One  of  his 
niott  fatuous  works  was  "  The  Hunt  After 
the  Captain,"  published  daring  war  times. 
"The  Captain  "  was  the  eldest  son,  who 
went  into  the  army  just  after  his  graduation 
from  Harvard.  For  a  short  time  he  trav- 
eled around  lecturing,  but  the  work  was 
not  to  his  taste,  and  the  "  Autocrat  "  records 
how  he  disliked  the  "  talking  in  cold  coun- 
try lyceums,  going  home  to  cold  parlors, 
and  being  treated  to  cold  apples  and  cold 
water,  and  then  going  up  to  a  cold  bed  in 
a  cold  chamber,  and  coming  home  the  next 
morning  with  a  cold  in  the  head."  He 
finally  settled  down  to  steady  literary  work 
and  to  practice  as  a  physician. 

At  the  Atlantic  Clnb,  Holmes  was  the 
life  and  spirit  of  the  meetings,  which  were 
attended  by  such  men  as  Longfellow,  Emer- 
son, Lowell,  Charles  Eliot  Norton,  Whipple, 
Motley,  eta  None  of  these  reunionss  eem- 
ed  complete  without  Holmes,  who,  quick 
and  nervous  in  manner,  a  little  undersized 
in  figure,  beaming  in  countenance,  moved 
about  here,  there,  everywhere,  always  ready 
with  some  bit  of  quaint  wisdom  or  spark- 
ling repartee.  Charles  Kingsley  called  him 
"  an  inspired  jackdaw."  Many  of  these 
have  now  passed  away,  but  Holmes  is  still 
with  us,  benign  and  beautiful  in  his  old 


age,  waiting  with  trust  and  confidence  to 
pass  the  Iron  Gate  of  which  he  has  himself 
written.  It  is  impossible  to  describe  the 
exact  feeling  with  which  the  public  in  gen- 
eral regards  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes.  It  is 
veneration  and  love,  but  yet  it  is  some- 
thing nearer.  He  is  so  completely  "  one,  of 
us."  No  one  can  see  his  face  or  read  his 
works  without  realizing  clearly  the  warm 
human  heart  that  beats  and  throbs  with 
that  of  all  mankind,  who  are  to  him  "  mine 
own  people "  indeed.  He  recognizes  the 
faults  in  humanity,  sympathizes  with  the 
temptations,  and  rejoices  over  the  good  that 
is  always  to  be  found  with  a  feeling  of  fel- 
lowship. Though  we  may  think  of  the 
author  of  the  "  One-Hoss  Shay  "  as  "  a  fel- 
low of  infinite  jest,"  yet  no  one  can  touch 
the  chord  of  pathos  more  tenderly  than  he 
—witness  "The  Last  Leaf."  Lincoln,  it  is 
said,  could  never  repeat  without  tears  this 
stanza : 

"  The  mossy  marbles  rest 

On  the-  lips  that  he  has  pressed 

In  their  bloom : 
And  the  names  he  loved  to  hear 
Have  been  carved  for  many  a  year 

On  the  tomb." 

Perhaps  no  better  expression  can  be 
found  of  the  hearty  appreciation  which  is 
felt  for  the  poet  far  and  wide  than  a  poem 
which  was  written  by  an  Englishman  some 
years  ago. 

Of  his  popularity  the  genial  old  doctor 
says  with  quaint  simplicity :  "  It  is  an  as- 
tonishment to  me  that  the  world  loves  me 
so  much,  but  it  is  also  a  great  joy."  Those 
who  visit  him  at  his  home  report  his  men- 
tal faculties  as"  keen  as  ever.  Indeed,  it 
would  seem  age  has  only  ripened  his  pow- 
ers to  fuller  maturity,  if  one  is  to  judge  by 
his  beautiful  poem  on  the  late  James  Rus- 
sell Lowell,  written  shortly  after  the  poet's 
death. 

Those  who  visit  Dr.  Holmes  at  his  house 
say  that  he  is  as  charming  and  sprjghtly  as 
ever.  As  he  cheerfully  says,  "  I  have  worn 
well."  His  faculties  are  unimpaired,  save 
that  his  sight  is  not  so  keen  and  bis  hear- 
ing is  a  little  duller.  On  this  latter  fact  he 
himself  touches  with  beautiful  resignation 
in  "  One  Hundred  Days  in  Europe." 

"  One  incident  of  our  excursion  to  Stone- 
henge  had  a  significance  for  me  which  ren- 
ders it  memorable  in  my  personal  experi- 
ence. As  we  drove  over  the  barren  plain, 
one  of  the  party  suddenly  exclaimed, 
'  Look !  Look !  See  the  lark  rising !'  I 
looked  up  with  the  rest  There  was  the 
bright,  blue  sky,  but  not  a  speck  upon  it 
which  my  eyes  could  distinguish. 

"  Again  one  called  oat, '  Hark  !  Hark  ! 
Hear  him  singing!'  I  listened,  bat  not  a 
sound  reached  my  ear.  Was  it  stange  that 
I  felt  a  momentary  pang  ?  Those  that  look 
out  of  the  windows  are  darkened,  and  all 
the  daughters  of  music  are  brought  low. 
Was  I  never  to  see  or  hear  the  soaring 
songster  at  heaven's  gate-sunless — unless — 
if  our  mild  humanized  theology  promises 
truly — I  may  perbaps  hereafter  listen  to 
him  singing  far  down  beneath  me? 

"  I  had  a  very  sweet  emotion  of  self-pity, 
which  took  the  sting  out  of  my  painful  dis- 
covery that  the  orchestra  of  my  pleasing 
life-entertainment  was  unstringing  its  in- 
struments, and  its  lights  were  being  extin- 
guished— that  the  show  was  almost  over. 
All  this  I  kept  to  myself,  of  course,  except 
so  far  as  I  whispered  it  to  the  unseen 
Presence  which  we  all  feel  is  in  sympathy 
with  us,  and  which,  as  it  seemed  to  my 
fancy,  was  looking  into  my  soul,  with  the 
tender,  tearful  smile  of  a  mother  who,  for 


the  first  time,  gently  presses  back  the  long- 
ing lips  of  her,  as  yet,  unweaued  infant." 

-He  is  taking  the  utmost  care  of  himself 
physically,  and  is  said  to  have  an  eager 

cariosity  to  see  how  long  his  life  can  be 
prolonged.  That  he  may  see  many,  many 
more  returns  of  this  Christmas-time  is  the 
wish  of  all  who  know  the  kindly  old  man 
who  has  kept  in  his  heart  for  fourscore 
years  the  feeling  of  peace  and  good  will 
towards  men. 


CCRTIS'S  EULOGY  OF  LOWELL. 

The  oration  which  George  William 
Curtis  delivered  at  the  Brooklyn  Insti- 
tute on  the  22d  of  February  has  the  distinc- 
tion of  being  the  most  just  and  the  most 
discriminating  eulogy  of  James  Russell 
Lowell  that  has  yet  been  ottered.while  at 
tne  same  time  it  no  less  honors  the  heart 
and  the  head  of  the  author.  There  is,  in- 
deed, only  one  man  who  could  do  such 
justice  to  the  comprehensive  intellect,  the 
heaven-born  genius,  the  delicate  fancy, 
the  lion-like  bravery  of  the  most  roman- 
tically practical  poet  of  the  nineteenth 
century — and  the  man  who  has  paid  this 
grand  tribute  to  a  life-long  friendship 
is  he  whom  Lowell  himself  has  described 


The  clear,  sweet  singer  with  the  crown 

of  snow 
Not  whiter  than  the  thoughts  that  housed 

below. 
The  value  of  the  ptnegyric  lies  in  the 
fact  that  Mr.  Curtis  is  able  to  mirror, 
with  great  faithfulness,  the  depths  of  a 
great  soul ;  to  outline,  with  firm  band, 
the  delicate  tracery  of  a  character 
known  to  few;  to  paint,  with  loving 
care,  the  colors  of  a  warm  heart,  and, 
withal,  to  set  the  jewelled  splendor  of 
the  poet's  vast  individuality  in  a  frame 
of  brilliant,  carefully  selected  diction. 
One  feature  of  Lowell's  many-sided  na- 
ture, which  was  none  the  less  assured  be- 
cause it  is  not  generally  patent  to  the 
world,  and  which  his  eulogist  has 
portrayed  with  great  stress,  was  the 
patriotism,  which  was  the  « be-all 
and  the  end-all"  of  his  life.  "Litera- 
ture," says  Mr.  Curtis, " was  his  pursuit, 
but  patriotism  was  his  passion.  His  love 
of  country  was  that  of  a  lover  for  his  mis- 
tress." Nor  can  we,  after  reading  the 
fiery,  though  half-veiled,  indignation,  the 
«  humor  in  deadly  earnest "  of  the  Big- 
low  Papers,  or  the  lofty  thoughts  ex- 
pressed in  the  Commemoration  Ode,  hes- 
itate .  to  believe  the  truth  of  that  asser- 
tion. It  was,  in  fact,  this  love  of  country 
which  induced  the  poet  to  leave  the 
grateful  solitude  of  Elmwood,  to  immerse 
himself  in  the  intricacies  of  a  diplomatic 
life,  and  to  so  win  the  hearts  of  the  Eng- 
lish people  that,  on  his  death,  "  the  sor- 
rowing voice  of  the  English  laureate  and 
of  the  English  Queen,  the  highest  voices 
of  English  literature  and  political  power, 
mingling  with  the  universal  voice  of  his 
own  country,  showed  how  Instructively 
and  surely  the  true  American,  faithiul  to 
the  spirit  of  Washington  and  of  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  reconciles  and  not  exasper- 
ates international  feeling." 

But,  in  emphasizing  Lowell's  greatness 
as  a  publicist,  in  lauding  the  noble  work 
he  accomplished  by  Inspiring  a  spirit  of 
international  good  will  and  friendliness, 
Mr.   Curtis    does  not  the    less   honor 


Lowell,  the  poet,  the  scholar,  the  critic, 
the  censor,  the  public  counsellor,  but  ac- 
centuates, in  turn,  his  wonderful  many- 
sidedness.  Mr.  Curtis  can,  indeed,  well 
appreciate  this  great  diversity  of  talents, 
for  he  too  is  endowed  with  a  similarly 
varied  genius.  Although  his  muse  seldom 
runs  in  rhythm,  he  has  not  only  through 
long  years  "  swayed  the  pens  that  break 
the  sceptres,"  but  he  has  also  "touched 
the  stops  of  various  quills,"  and  given  to 
the  world  much  notable  literature, 
parented  by  his  facile  brain.  While 
thus  and  in  other  respects,  they  had 
much  in  common,  Lowell  and  Curtis  were 
as  a  unit  with  regard  to  their  independ- 
ence in  politics.  This  similarity  is  so 
strong  that  the  following  words  apply  as 
well  to  the  writer  as  to  the-subject  of  the 
writing :  "  With  his  lofty  patriotism  and 
his  extraordinary  public  conscience, 
Lowell  was  distinctively  the  independent 
in  politics.  Ho  was  an  American  and  a 
republican  citizen.    He  acted  with  par- 

tleaas  every  citizen  must  act  if  he  acts  at 
ail.  But  the  notion  that  a  voter  is  a 
traitor  to  one  party  when  he  votes  with 
another  was  as  ludicrous  to  him  as  the 
assertion  that  it  is  treason  to  the  White 
Star  steamers  to  take  passage  in  a 
Cunarder.  When  he  would  know  his 
public  dutj'  Lowell  turned  within,  not 
without."  Such  knowledge  is  true  patri- 
otism, and  when  it  exists  in  the  breasts  of 
men  of  like  calibre  with  Lowell  and 
Curtis  it  compels  them,  as  Kingsley  says, 
to 
"Do  noble  things,  not  dream  them,  all 

day  long; 
And  so  make  life,   death,  and  that  vast 

forevpi 
One  grand,  sweet  song." 


58 


o 

> 

H 


■a  s. 

f.  — 

»  a 


o 


s 

a: 


UJ 

_J 
-J 

ZD 
CO 

>- 

DC 

< 

cc 

UJ 

H 

-J 


t 


Tributes  to  Doctor  Holmes. 

NE  of  the  most  beautiful  and  touching  things  in  human 
experience  is  the  love  and  reverent  tenderness  which  noble 
Age  inspires.     Peculiarly  sincere  and  deep  are  this  love 
and  tenderness  when  Age  lifts  into  eminence  men  who 
have  devoted  their  long  and  fruitful  years  to  the  instruc- 
tion, the  cheering,  the  inspiration  of  their  fellow-men.    This 
will  account  for  the  tone  of  admiration  and  affection  which 
is  most  noticeable  in  all  current  allusions  to  Mr.  Whittier  and  Dr.  Holmes. 
Their  countrymen  recognize  their  wisdom,  their  genius,  their  large  achieve- 
ments, and  their  beautiful  characters  ;  and  they  delight  to  do  them  honor. 

From  the  numerous  tributes  paid  to  Dr.  Holmes  on  his  recent  completion 
of  his  eightieth  year,  and  gathered  by  the  enterprise  of  the  Boston  Daily 
Advertiser,  we  cannot  forbear  quoting  three.  And  properly  the  first  place 
is  given  to  Mr.  Whittier's  graceful  and  very  characteristic  poem :  — 

OLIVER  WENDELL   HOLMES. 

ON   HIS   EIGHTIETH    BIRTHDAY. 

Climbing  the  path  that  leads  back  nevermore, 

We  heard  behind  his  footsteps  and  his  cheer ; 

Now,  face  to  face,  we  greet  him,  standing  here 
Upon  the  lonely  summit  of  Fourscore. 
Welcome  to  us,  o'er  whom  the  lengthened  day 

Is  closing,  and  the  shadows  deeper  grow, 

His  genial  presence,  like  an  after-glow, 
Following  the  one  just  vanishing  away. 


Long  be  it  ere  the  Table  shall  be  set  59  {»*> 

For  the  last  breakfast  of  the  Autocrat,  "i  3 


© 


And  Love  repeat,  with  smiles  and  tears,  thereat  =, 

His  own  sweet  songs,  that  time  shall  not  forget. 


o  s 


1 


Waiting  with  him  the  call  to  come  up  higher,  J  £        > 

Life  is  not  less,  the  heavens  are  only  nieher !  „  r,         «  »§5      f°mP 

Mr.  George  William  Curtis,  with  his  customary  felicity,  wrote:  "It  is      „.  « |    g  R|||  s«|d 
better  to  be  eighty  years  young  than  forty  years  old.     Youth  is  the  fresh-     J?^®    |  |gs|  Ifff 

P    S  a  a  ^      §■ 


•  3  5 


If  J 

111 

s --" 

s  "  • 

b 

B    5  •*> 

c 

—   >>  • 

N 

o    •)  . 

€    • 

s  *- 

li5b 

3-3 

-Oife 

-    o.  « 

2«L.B 

£k»S 

1  sa 

-s  S  g 

£  J  S 
3  fiS 

Winds  o 

Instinct 
Dropped 

s  on  H 
caliar 
Inson 

g  S.-8 

k|o 

£     (S     t*> 

ja    »  — 

H   •  S 

Sea 

ness  of  sympathy,  the  unquenched  hope,  the  generous  enthusiasm,  the  ten-      ®  J  g    «  j.J3|s  lllfi 
der  feeling,  the  lofty  aim,  the  cheerful  humor,  of  which  his  books  are  full,      2  «  £    *  *£xg   •!•« 
and  which  make  the  poet  and  the  Autocrat  a  young  man.     The  crown  of      o  « "S    §  ||j||  ||-g 
honor  and  love  that  he  wears  is,  like  his  genius,  many-sided,  and  every  side      a  •  © 
sparkles  with  diamond  lustre.     His  delightful  humor  first  in  New  England 
brightened  the  seriousness  of  its  literature.  .  .  . 
"It  is  not  easy  without  apparent  exaggeration  to  express  publicly  the 

affection  and  admiration  in  which  Dr.  Holmes  is  held  by  his  personal 
friends.  To  the  public  he  is  the  brilliant  author  who  speaks  to  every  mood. 
But  to  his  friends  he  is  the  man  who  strengthens  and  enriches  every  charm 
which  the  author  weaves." 

Mr.  Charles  Dudley  Warner  said  :  "  Our  poet,  our  essayist,  our  novelist, 
our  man  of  wit,  has  endeared  himself  to  the  whole  nation  for  a  long  time, 

-----  i ..  .    ...  »  B  «    •    i  JJ    B  -O    « 

and  now  it  comes  to  be  plainly  seen  how  much  we  owe  him  in  the  way  of  ]os~'"*,B^a 

distinction  in  the  world.     When  we  sum  up  all  our  resources  and  achieve-  g  „- £  S  «a  as  „  - 

ments,  it  is  to  him  and  his  few  compeers  that  we  must  point  for  our  dis-  ~  ^  HS®8oo|| 

tinction.  I  „-     |  I         c     lv%i*\V 

"This  is  the  general  thought  on  his  eightieth  birthday.     But  to  those  ||jL  |  |     |i*_    |3s2tJ°f 

who  are  so  fortunate  as  to  know  him  outside  of  his  books,  there  is  added  a  «igg   s*$i  Jig*!  «  J5  3  *  «  J? 2  -f 

wealth  of  love  and  personal  devotion  to  the  man,  for  the  qualities  which  zz^s,  |«l|  «S«1  55»a     i'S 

sweeten  private  life  and  endear  their  possessor.     It  is  very  beautiful  to  me  |*.1°   §aJ«   vel'  8  s-  8  »      s  - 


_     S3 
«S     — 

to  see  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  whose  life  has  been  so  helpful  and  full  of       iff!   **f»  I §1.2    S-j-S  ,§.•£'  £••§ 

73  -a  s 


\it  lias 


sweet  charity,  so  followed  now  with  love  and  honor."  .ago   |JSo  t||g  J  •%  £  g 


W§»>>  "4* 


a  a 


P-aSfe     S°Va     SkS*      b  -  ► 

¥¥  2al5  i*f  S-ziZ** 

ton's  poems.     Mrs.  Todd   has  recalled  atten-  ®  |  tt^  ~  £.  2.  °" 

tion  to  the  fact  that  they  should   be   viewed  £  a  ~  «   a  e  S  J 

trtv.  **'  ^^•^^—  rather  as  sketches  than  as  finished  works.    We  5  8  £  >  "2  s   s 

t»u-    t?ttt  powtuv  can   Dever   know    what    changes    the   author 

RECENT  POETRY.  might  haye  made  in  them  had  she  serlourtj- 

The  extract  from  a  letter  of  the  late  Mrs.  addressed  herself  to  i  utting  them  in  print. 

Helen  Jackson  ("  H.  H."),  prefixed  to  the  sec  Up  to  the  point  where  the  left  them,  her  chief 

ond  series  of  Emily  Dickinson's  poems  (Bos-  solicitude  had   clearly  been  with  the  pbrate, 

ton:  Roberts  Bros.),  suggests  the  curious  dif-  not  with  the  verse  or  the  line,     bhe   would 

ference    in    the  careers  of   thete   two    gifted  make  many  alterations  to  secure  precisely  the 

women,  both  natives  of  the  same  small  inland  adjective  or  substantive  she  needed;  but  the 

town    of    Massachusetts.      They    were    play-  minor  changes  required  to  perfect  a  rhyme  or 

mates  and  schoolmates  ;  both  began  to  write  to  avoid  a  repetition  were  sometimes  postpon-  a   r,^_;_^.*»^,^.13*»«^ 

after  early  girlhood  had  passed,  and  for  the  ed  for  some  moment  of  leisure,  il  may  be,  or  iSf^slcSslsl 

utterance  of  deep  personal  feeling.     But  the  in  other  cases  spurned  as  unimportant     Even 

one  easily  obtained  fame,  friends,  recognition,  her  peculiarities  of  grammar  seem  like  mere 

Influence;  she  bad  varied  social  experience;  abort  cuts  or  abbreviations,  as  when  one  takes 

with    many  sorrows,  she  obtained    much  of  notes  in  shorthand.     We  all  know  that  a  really  «    j|  .■•o|  •'  *.i£  ^   S 

what  was  best  and  most  enjoyable  in  life,  and  fine  poem  is  rarely  struck  off  at  a  single  sit-  ]    2    •~u$.ll'2«*g  3 II 

died  in  the  maturity  of  a  conspicuous  literary  ting;  there  are  usually  several  stages  of  com-  •a'1^5MH*i^«J«  1!    «." 

career.    The  other  died  absolutely  unknown,  pletion,  at  any  one  of  which,  up  to  the  very  jj     p3  |-w    .Ji^  »j      g   >s|«> 

even  by  name,  beyond  her  own  domestic  cir-  last,  the  work  would  seem  still  imperfect  if  g    >  a  4>  ~  °  ~o  a  °       oxi       3  ^£  i  | 

ele,  and  yet  this  nameless  woman  was  at  once  published.     The  peculiarity  is  that  almost  all  S  S  £  S  °  ~3  "  *  Z  "t  ^'S      S   »o.s| 

uplifted  into  an  extraordinary  prominence  by  of  Emily  Dickinson's  compositions  are  taken  <a     .  p  ^  -'  ~  g    .  —  £  ^  ft       h  •£  |^  > 

the  simple  publication  of    her  poems,  after  at  that  intermediate  stage,  and  they  are,  id        §2—  «.*•"£  "•"u-^jS*?  S"°~ 

death.    Some  added  light  is  thrown  on  this  short,  to  be  viewed  as  fketcbes,  not  works  of       5a  JI  S  J=  i  J^  S  cS  ■g""|- 

curious  transition  by  the  preface  contributed  codscIous  completeness.     With  this  interpret*-        *;   9    ti'~'Bm'2*0'°€'~^£  E«g* 

to  the  present  volume  by  Mrs.  Todd,  but  it  tion,  it  may  fairly  be  said  that  those  con-        •  5    ►  ,•  S  g  ,§  b""0  5  ■  *"  &  1*      I^00 

leaves  many  questions  to  be  asked.     It,  how-  tained  in  this  second  series  are  quite  as  re-        St"  »rs'  •  S  o  s  1?  b  6  f  ^  I 

ever,  brings  out  clearly  a  point  overlooked  markabie  as  those  In  the  first.     Perhaps  they        |  £     J»«*'"»^'8^Sl 

by  many  who  have  discussed  Emily  Dick  in  are  even  more  remarkable;  at  any  rate,  there        S        §i£  §S^  e<S  o-^SS 


in  at  the  very  birth  of  her  birds  and  flowers, 
as  In  the  following  verses  (p.  72) : 

FRINGED    GENTIAN 

God  made  a  little  gentian  ; 

It  tried  to  be  a  rose 

And  failed,  and  ail  the  summer  laughed. 

Hut  Just  before  the  snows 

There  came  a  pu  pie  creature 

1  hat  ravished  all  the  hill  i 

And  summer  hid  her  forehead. 

And  mockery  was  still. 

The  frosts  were  her  condition  ; 

The  Tyrlan  would  not  come 

Until  the  North  evoki  4  It. 

"Creator I  shall  I  bloom 7 " 

The  editors  have  put  at  the  beginning  of  the 
volume  two  verses  which  seem — unlike  all  the 
rest — to  show  some  objective  aim  in  the  poems; 
and  tbey  close  with  these  four  terte  lines, 
which  might  well  suffice  for  Emily  Dickinson's 
own  epitaph: 

"  Lay  this  laurel  on  the  one 
Too  Intrinsic  for  renown. 
Laurel  I  veil  your  deathless  tree, — 
Him  you  chasten,  that  Is  he  I" 

Tbe  fact  that  Mr.  Donglas  Bladen,  in  his 
'Younger  American  Poets'  (Cassell  Publish- 
ing Co.),  makes  no  allusion  to  Emily  Dick- 
inson, snows  how  important  It  is  that  the 
editor  of  such  a  compilation  should  be  on 
the  spot  and  should  have  the  latest  Infor- 
mation. The  earliest  information,  if  that  is 
desirable,  may  certainly  be  said  to  be  pos- 
sessed by  a  compiler  who  heads  his  list  of  juve- 
nile rhymers  with  the  name  of  Paul  Hamilton 
Hayne,  who  would,  were  he  living,  be  over 

sixty.  The  mere  selection  thus  seems  so  liberal 
that  it  is  almost  a  disappointment  to  find  that 
Whlttier  and  Holmes  are  omitted.  In  the  dis- 
tribution of  space,  too,  there  is  a  waywardness 
which  can  only  partly  be  explained  by  the 
whims  of  publishers;  thus,  Btedman  has  six- 
teen pages,  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  nine,  and  Al- 
drlch  one  and  a  half.  But,  with  all  its  faults 
and  its  wilderness  of  misprints — including,  for 
instance,  "  Borjeson  "  for  "  Boyesen"  (p.  665), 
and  "  Lamer  "  for  "  Lanier  "  (p.  666),  the  book 
affords  a  fairly  good  collection  of  the  works 
of  American  poets  less  than  sixty-one  years 
old;  and  tbe  appendix  containing  Canadian 
poets,  and  edited  by  Goodridge  Bliss  Roberts 
of  8t.  John,  N.  B.,  is  distinctly  valuable  and 
useful.  We  should  not  neglect  to  add  that 
there  is  prefixed  to  the  volume  a  dedication  to 
the  citizens  of  Boston,  and  a  sonnet  to  "Tbe 
American  Fall  at  Niagara,"  both  by  Mr. 
Sladen  and  in  a  Turper-like  vein. 

A  far  more  modest  and  far  better  executed 
collection  of  miscellaneous  poems,  from  Eng- 
lish and  American  sources,  is  that  called 
'Sunshine  in  Life:  Poems  for  tbe  King's 
Daughters'  (Putnam),  selected  by  Florence 
Pohlman  Lee.  The  seleotion  is  good,  the  ty- 
prgraphy  beautiful,  the  dates  of  birth  and  (if 
need  be)  of  death  are  mentioned  in  connection 
with  each  author,  and  several  good  indexes 
are  supplied  For  the  benefit  of  tbat  part  of 
the  public  to  which  the  order  of  the  "  King's 
Daughters"  is  but  a  name,  it  might  have  been 
well  to  intimate  their  aims  and  functions.  An- 
other book  of  poetry,  no  lees  valuable  for  not 
being  new,  is  a  new  edition  of  Sidney  Lanier's 
Poems  (BcribnerF),wilh  tbe  well-known  memoir 
by  Wm.  Hayes  Ward.  Oood  books,  like  good 
runners,  possess  what  may  be  called  their 
first  and  second  wind ;  most  sink  down  breath- 
less when  their  first  wind  is  exhausted,  usually 
at  or   before  the  death  of   their  author.     If, 


60 

however,  an  author's  fame  really  survives 
bim,  it  is  likely  to  bold  out  for  a  long  time, 
and  such  seems  destined  to  be  tbe  fame  of  Sid- 
ney Lanier. 

Of  volumes  wholly  new,  we  find  that  of 
Helen  Gray  Cone  incon  test  ably  the  teat:  '  Tbe 
Ride  to  the  Lady,  and  Other  Poems'  (Hough- 
ton, Mifflin  &  Co.).  The  title-poem  is  the 
strongest  poem  of  action  and  movement  ever 
written  by  an  American  woman;  and,  as 
Emerson  said  of  "  H.  H.'s"  poems,  perhaps 
we  might  as  well  omit  tbe  "  woman."  Since 
Scott  there  has  been  no  terser  handling  of  the 
ballad  measure,  mingled  with  fine  spiritual 
touches  that  Scott  could  not  have  given. 
Read  now  tbe  story  of  the  Orient  at  Nelson's 
sea  fight  of  Aboukir  (p.  37) : 

THE  STORY  OF  THE   ■•  ORIENT." 

'T  was  a  pleasant   Sunday  morning  while  the  spring 
was  In  Its  glory, 
English  spring  of  gentle  glory;  smoking  by  his  cot- 
tage door, 
Florid-faced,  the  man-o'-war's  man   told   his  white- 
head boy  (he  story. 
Noble  story  of  Aboukir,  told  a  hundred  times  before. 

"Here,  the   Theseus — here,  the   Vanguard";    as   he 
spoke  each  nam*  sonorous — 
Minotaur,  Defence,  Majestic  staunch  old  comrades 
of  the  brine. 
That  against  tho  ships  of  Brueys  made  their  broad- 
sides roar  in  chorus — 
BanRlng  daisies  on  his  dcorstone,  deft  he  mapped 
the  battle-line. 

Happed  the  curve  of  tall  three-deckers,  deft  as  might 
a  man  left-handed. 
Who  had  given  an  arm  to  England  later  on  at  Tra- 
falgar. 
While  he  poured  the  praise  of  Nelson  to  the  child  with 
eyes  expanded. 
Bright  athwart   his    honest   forehead  blushed  the 
scarlet  outlass-scar. 

For  he  served  aboard  the  Vanguard,  saw  the  Admiral, 
blind  and  bleeding 
Borne  below  by  silent  sailors,  bomo  to  die  as  then 
they  deemed. 
Every  stout  heart  sick  bat  stubborn,  fought  the  sea- 
dogs  on  unheeding. 
Guns  were  cleared  and  manned  and  cleared,  the  bat- 
tle) thundered,  flashed,  and  so  reamed. 

Till  a  cry  swelled  loud  and  louder — towered  on  fire 
the  Orient  stately, 
Bruevs'  flag  stilp,  she  that  carried  guns  a  hundred 
ana  n  score  : 
Then  came  groping  up  the  hatchway  he  they  counted 
dead  but  lately. 
Came  the  ilttle  one-armed  Admiral  to  guide  the  fight 
once  more. 

"Lower  the  boats  I"  was  Nelson's  order.     But  the 
listening  boy  beside  him. 
Who  had  followed  all  his  motions  with  an  eager 
wide  bine  eye. 
Horsed  upon  tbe  name  of  Nelson  tUl  he  half  had  del- 
(ted  him. 
Here,  with  childhood's  crude  consistence,  broke  the 
tale  to  question  "  Why  ?  " 

For  by  children  facts  go  streaming  in  a  throng  tbat 
novrr  pauses, 
Noted  nnt,  till  of  a  sudden,  thought,  a  sunbeam, 
gilds  th»  motes. 
All  at  onoo  the  known  words  quicken,  and  the  child 
would  deal  with  cnu«es : 
Since  to  kill  the  French  was  righteous,  why  bade  Nel- 
son lower  the  boats  ? 

Quick  the  man  putbv  the  question.     "But  the  Orient, 
none  could  save  h>  r; 
We  could  see  the  ships,  the  ensigns,  olear  as  day- 
light by  the  flare; 
And  a  manv  l.  aped  and  left  her;  but,  God  rest  'em, 
some  were  hrnver;    i 
Some  held  by  her.  firing  steady  till  she  blew  to  Qod 
knows  where." 

At  the  shock,  he  said,  the  Vanguard  shook  through  all 
her  timbers  oiken; 
It  was  like  the  shock  of  Doomsday — not  a  tar  but 
shuddered  bard 
All  was  hushed  f  r  one  strange  moment;  then  that 
awful  calm  was  broken 
By  the  henvy  plash  that  answered  the  descent  of 
mast  and  yard. 

Bo,  her  cannon  still  defying,  and  her  colors  flaming, 
flying, 
In  her  pit  her  wounded  helpless,  on  her  deck  her 
admiral  dead. 
Soared  the  Orient  Into  darkness  with  her  living  and 
her  dying. 
"Ye'  our  lads  made  shift  to  rescue  threescore  souls," 
the  seaman  sold. 


Long  the  hoy  with  knit  brows  wondered  o'er  that 
friending  of  the  foeman; 
Long  the  man  with  shut  lips  pondered;  powerless  he 
to  tell  the  cause 
Why  the  brother  In  his  bosom  that  desired  the  death  of 
no  man. 
In  the  crash  of  battle  wakened,  snapped  the  bonds 
of  hate  like  straws. 

While  he  mused,  his  toddling  maiden  drew  the  daisies 
to  a  nosy; 
Hlld  the  bells  of  Sunday  morning  rang  across  the 
churchyard  sod; 
And.  helped  on  by  tender  hands,  with  sturdy  feet  all 
bare  and  rosy. 
Climbed  his  bnbe  to  mother's  breast,  as  climbs  the 
slow  world  up  to  God. 


Had  that  been  written  by  a  man — Rudyard 
Klplinsr,  for  instance — all  the  critics  would 
have  raid,  "  How  virile  1"  But  the  woman  in 
the  writer  has  given,  us  that  last  verse,  in 
which  the  "  virile"  is  merged  in  the  human, 
which  is  better.  Another  volume  of  good 
verse  is  '  A  Handful  of  Lavender,'  by  Llzette 
Woodworth  Reese  (Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co.), 
showing  her  well-known  quality  of  fine  sym- 
pathy with  nature,  penetrated  by  a  charm  of 
execution  which  may  easily  become  manner- 
ism unless  she  has  a  care.  James  Whitcomb 
Riley  has  also  a  very  close  Intimacy  with  na- 
ture, as  seen  in  his  '  Old-Fashioned  Roses' 
(Longmans),  but  he  will  always  suffer  in  the 
eyes  of  serious  critics  from  having  first  ap- 
peared on  tbe  comic  stage,  thus  forfeiting  the 
assocla* ions  of  seriousness;  so  that  the  reader 
still  tnrns  first  to  "Origgsbv's  Station"  and 
"Little  Orphant  Annie."  Miles  I'Anson,  in 
•The  Vlfion  of  Misery  Hill'  (Putnams),  has 
some  of  the  coarser  California  flavors;  while 
Harry  Fenn's  illustrations  of  the  same  book 
are  ccarser  and  cruder  still. 

There  is  good  local  coloring  In  '  Wildwood 
Chimes'  (Cincinnati:  Clarke),  by  Emma  Wi- 
thers, who  has  for  material  the  beautiful 
mountain  woods  of  West  Virginia.  On  the 
other  hand,  there  is  in  '  An  Idyl  of  tbe  Sun, 
and  Other  Poems,'  by  Orin  Cedesman  Stevens 
(Holyoke,  Mass. :  Griffith),  no  local  coloring  at 
all — not  even  tbat  of  the  sun— and  while  there 
are  good  touches,  there  is  nothing  which  might 
not  have  been  written  anywhere.  '  Lyrics  of 
the  Hudson,'  by  the  late  Horatio  Nelson  Powers 
(Boston :  Lothror ),  have  a  mediocre  excellence 
above  wbioh  rises  these  rather  striking  ltnee 
on  tbat  miracle  yet  unsuug,  the  phonograph 
(p.  69): 

THE  PHONOGRAPH'S  SALUTATION. 

I  seize  the  palpitating  air.    I  hoard 

Music  and  speech.    All  lips  that  speak  are  mine. 
I  speak,  and  the  Inviolable  word 

Authenticates  Its  origin  and  sign. 

I  am  a  tomb,  a  paradise,  a  throne, 
An  angel,  prophet,  slave.  Immortal  friend  i 

My  living  records  In  their  native  tone 
Convict  the  knave  and  disputations  end. 

In  me  are  souls  embalmed.    I  am  an  ear 
Flawless  as  Truth ;  and  Truth's  own  tongue  am  I. 

I  am  a  resurrection,  and  men  hear 
The  quick  and  dead  converse,  as  I  reply. 

A  most  curious  and  interesting  little  book, 
which  might  well  have  been  much  larger  and 
more  annotated,  is  a  volume  of  poems  and 
translations  in  Pennsylvania  Du'ch:  '  Drauss 
nn  Deheem:  Uedichte  in  Pennsylvanisch 
Deitsch  bel  'm  Charles  Calvin  Ziegler  von 
Brushvalley,  Pa.'  (Leipzig:  Hesse  &  Becker). 
There  is  no  regular  glossary,  but  there  is  a 
very  careful  appendix  illustrating  the  pro- 
nunciation of  the  dialeot,  and  some  note*  as  to 
the  influx,  constantly  increasing,  of  English 
words. 


JOHN  QRBENLEAF  WH1&T1ER. 

Whittier,  the  Quaker  poet,  was  born  near  Haver- 
hill, Mass.,  December  17,  1807.  It  is  a  fact  that  we 
have  never  seen  attention  colled  to,  that  on  the  year 
cf  Whittier's  birth  both  the  United  States  and  Great 
Britain  abolished  the  slave  trade  throughout  all  their 
territory  and  colonial  possessions. 

Whittier  was  descended  from  Thomas  Whittier, 
who  came  to  Haverhill  with  the  Society  of  Friends 
in  1(348.  The  Whittier  family  was  famed  far  and 
near  for  its  peace  qualities.  In  1697  and  again  in 
101)8  the  Indians  descended  upon  Haverhill,  massa- 
cring in  horrible  fashion.  On  the  former  occasion 
they  carried  away  Hannah  Dustin,  whose  case  was  re- 
cited in  all  school  readers  forty  years  ago,  and  in  the 
latter  they  killed  and  captured  forty  white  inhabi- 
tants of  Haverhill,  but  though  they  went  and  came 
by  the  door  of  the  Whitticrs.  the  scalps  dangling  from 
the  belt,  they  never  once  molested  the  Whittier 
household.  The  spirit  of  the  fathers  was  in  John 
Green  leaf  Whittier. 

Strength  of  character  and  loyalty  to  the  truth 
were  equally  noticeable  traits  of  the  Whittier  family. 
It  took  seven  generations  of  sturdy,  liberty-loving, 
God-fearing  yeoman  to  produce  a  Whittier.  The 
father  of  the  poet  had  a  comfortable  farmhouse  on 
the  outskirts  of  Haverhill.  The  house  is  still  stand- 
ing, and  the  electric  cars  run  past  the  house  from  the 
Haverhill  station.  The  father  was  in  comfortable 
circumstances,  but  the  poet  was  brought  up  to  work 
on  the  farm  in  the  summer,  to  attend  the  district 
school  in  the  winter,  and  to  work  in  the  shoe  shop  of 
that  day  occasionally. 

Young  Whittier  went  to  school  in  a  dilapidated, 
one-storied  shanJy,  standing  not  far  from  the  Whittier 
homestead.  This  was  the  home  of  the  schoolmaster, 
whose  wife,  somewhat  given  to  drink,  took  care  of 
her  own  babies  "in  the  next  room."  In  a  poem,  "To 
My  Old  Schoolmaster,"  is  this  verse,  which  follows 
one  which  speaks  of  a  domestic  discussion  between 
the  schoolmaster  and  his  inebriated  wife.     Then, — 

"Through  the  cracked  and  crazy  wall 
Came  the  cradle  rock  and  squall. 
And  the  good  man's  voice  at  strife 
With  his  shrill  and  tipsy  wife." 

Whittier  was  first  aroused  in  poetic  imagination  by 
a  volume  of  Burns,  which  fell  into  his  hands  in  early 
boyhood.  He  was  so  fascinated  with  it  that  he  spent 
even-  spare  minute  upon  it.  "He  read  it  at  night  by 
the  kitchen  fire,  at  noon  while  resting  in  the  shadow 
of  the  stone  wall  he  was  helping  to  build."  Every- 
thing now  took  on  a  hue  of  poetry,  which  sought  ex- 
pression in  rhythmical  language.  All  this  greatly 
disturbed  his  practical  father,  who  saw  naught  but 
waste  of  time  and  energy  therein,  but  the  boy  would 
write. 

Whittier's  "first  verses  for  print"  were  written  in 
blue  ink   on   the  coarsest  kind   of  paper,   and  were 


61 


CO 
OS 
GO 


U3 


o 


1 


o 


thrust  under  the  door  of  William  Lloyd  Garrison's 
office,  The  Free  Press,  an  obscure  publication  in  the 
neighboring  town  of  Newburyport.  This  was  done 
after  office  hours  and  found  by  Garrison  on  the  floor 
the  next  morning.  The  editor  was  about  throwing 
the  paper  in  the  wastebasket  unread — he  had  no  need 
of  poetry — hut  glanced  at  it  casually,  saw  that  it  was 
poetry,  "The  Exile's  Departure,"  and  laid  it  away 
for  use,  hut  it  did  not  appear  till  June  1,  1826.  Of 
course  young  Whittier  had  looked  in  the  Free  Press 
every  week  for  his  lines,  and  when  at  last  they  ap- 
peared— well,  no  one  knows  how  he  felt  except  those 
who  have  seen  their  first  verses  in  print,  after  weary 
weeks  of  waiting.  There  was  no  author's  name  with 
the  verses,  and  as  soon  as  they  were  printed,  others 
were  sent,  all  of  which  were  printed.  At  length  Gar- 
rison learned  that  they  came  "from  a  farmer's  boy, 
named  Whittier,  living  in  East  Haverhill."  Garri- 
son at  once  replied,  "I  will  ride  over  and  see  that  boy," 

He  did  so,  and  found  father  and  son  working  to- 
gether in  the  field,  now  little  either  thought  that 
for  fifty  years  they  would  work  together  in  a  great 
cruise!  This  visit  of  Garrison  decided  the  career  of 
Whittier.  Garrison  was  but  two  years  his  senior,  but 
he  was  already  a  man  of  affairs,  had  seen  much  of  the 
world,  had  a  fair  education,  had  deep  convictions,  an 
earnest  purpose,  and  great  courage.  On  that  first 
Aisit  he  insisted  that  the  father  should  give  young 
Whittier  something  of  an  education,  and  two  years  in 
an  academy  followed.  With  this  scholastic  capital 
ho  went  to  Boston,  and  before  he  was  twenty-one  was 
editing  the  American  Manufacturer. 

From  1833  to  1837  .he  edited  the  Haverhill  Gazette, 
and  in  those  years  he  found  his  mission.  He  was  now 
from  twenty-six  to  thirty  years  of  age.  Before  this 
time  he  had  done  editorial  work  in  Boston,  Haver- 
hill, and  Hartford,  but  now  he  lifted  himself  above 
mere  journalism,  and  sent  forth  bugle  blasts  that 
helped  to  arouse  the  entire  north.  Those  were  mem- 
orable years.  Webster  had  just  delivered  his  famous 
reply  to  Hayne  and  was  at  the  height  of  his  glory; 
Great  Britain  abolished  slaver}'  throughout'  the 
British  empire,  1833;  the  Whig  party  was  born,  1834; 
the  American  Anti-slavcvry  Society  had  just  been 
founded,  1831;  Andrew  Jackson  was  the  sensational 
president.,  and  Van  Buren  succeeded  him  in  1837; 
the  greatest  financial  crisis  in  the  history  of  the 
United  States  was  in  1837;  Queen  Yictorfa  began  her 
reign  1837;  and  E.  P.  Lovejoy  was  murdered  for  his 
anti-6lavery  sentiments  in  1837;  Carlyle  wrote 
"Sartor  Bcsartus";  Emerson,  "Nature";  Hawthorne, 
"Twice  Told  Tales";  Goethe,  "Faust";  LoTd  Lytton 
wrote  "Last  Days  of  Pompeii";  Dickens  wrote  "Pick- 
wick Papers"  and  "Oliver  Twist";  De  Tocqueville, 
"Democracy  in  America";  D'Aubigne,  "History  of 
the  Reformation";  while  •Victor  Hugo,  Balzac, 
Strauss,  Hans  Christian  Andersen,  Irving,  Bryant, 
Holmes,  Cooper,  Prescott,  Lowell,  Motley,  Poe,  Long- 
fellow, Channing,  Audubon,  Greeley,  Paulding,  N. 


62 


P.  Willis,  Thackeray,  Samuel  G.  Howe,  the  Brown- 
ings, Mi's.  Sigourney,  Mrs.  Heman?,  Wordsworth, 
Harriet  Mart-menu,  Lockhart,  Bronson  Alcott,  and 
Lydia  Maria  Child  were  catering  to  the  literary  world 
into  which  he  was  suddenly  launched  in  those  years. 
There  were  other  important  events:  the  New  York 
Sun  was  born  as  a  penny  paper,  1833,  and  the  first 
newsboys  in  America  put  in  their  appearance;  tem- 
perance societies  and  anti-slavery  societies  were 
everywhere  organized;  an  anti-abolition  mob  terror- 
ized New  York  July  4,  1839;  an  anti-lottery  move- 
ment was  begun;  the  Ursuline  convent  in  Charles- 
town  was  burned,  1834;  the  sewing  machine  was  in- 
vented; the  telegraph  was  successfully  used.  Whit- 
tier  came  to  his  literary  opportunity  at  one  of  the 
memorable  periods  of  American  life,  and  it  is  not  to 
be  wondered  that  he  broadened  his  power  and  deep- 
'  ened  his  conviction  in  such  times. 

It  was  in  this  period,  while  editor  of  the  Haverhill 
Gazette,  that  he  was  elected  to  the  Massachusetts 
legislature.  He  removed  to  Amesbury  in  1838,  and 
devoted  TrimseTf  f'o  literary  work.  His  great  oppor- 
tunities were  in  the  columns  of  the  National  Era  of 
Philadelphia  and  the  Atlantic  Monthly  of  Boston, 
to  both  of  which  he  was  a  frequent  contributor. 

Mr.  Whittier's  poetic  genius  was  partially  appre- 
ciated in  18o7,  when  his  volume  of  collected  poems 
appeared,  but  it  was  not  till  1866  that  he  was  recog- 
nized as  one  of  those  "Great  American  Saints"  who 
are  also  "Great  American  Poets."  It  was  his  "Snow- 
Bound'*  that  led  the  critical  world  to  see  the  power 
of  genius  in  his  lines.  What  Emerson's  "Nature" 
was  as  a  revelation  of  the  possibilities  of  the  Ameri- 
can essay,  Whittier's  "Snow-Bound"  was  as  a  revela- 
tion of  the  possibilities  of  creating  an  ideal  American 
life  in  verse.  There  is  nothing  else  in  American 
poetry  that  compares  with  this  in  several  essentials. 
Hi^  "Tent,  on  the  Beach"  and  "Among  the  Hills" 
were  in  the  same  line,  but  lacked,  as  did  all  his  other 
verses,  somewhat  of  the  power  of  "Snow-Bound. " 

BRIEF  RECORD. 

1620.— Thomas  Whlttler,  first  American  ancestor,  born 
In  England. 

1638.— Thomas  Whlttler  came  to  America  and  settled  at 
Salisbury  on  the  Merrimack. 

1648.— Thomas  Whlttler  moved  to'  Haverhill,  taking 
with  him  the  first  hive  of  bees  in  Haverhill,  and  |400  as 
his  worldly  possession. 

1669.— Joseph  Whittier,  from  whom  J.  G.  Whlttler  was 
descended,  was  born, — the  youngest  child. 

1716. — Joseph  second,  grandfather  of  the  poet,  was 
born, — youngest  child. 

1760.— John,  father  of  the  poet,— tenth  child. 

1807.— December  7,  John  Greenleaf  Whittier  born.  Be- 
cause he  came  through  the  line  of  the  youngest  sons,  there 
were  but  four  lives  connecting  the  poet  with  1620. 

1826.  June  1  his  first  verses,  "The  Exile's  Departure," 
appeared  in  the  Newburyport  Free  Press. 

1827.— First  met  Garrison. 

1827.— Went  to  Haverhill  Academy. 


1828. — Edited  American  Manufacturer,  Boston,  Haver- 
hill Gazette,  New  England  Weekly  Review  of  Hartford. 
1833-7.— Returned  to  editorship  of  Haverhill  Gazette: 
1831. — "Legends  of  New  England"  published. 
1832.— "Moll  Pitcher." 
1833. — An  anti-slavery  pamphlet. 
1836.— "Mogg  Megone." 
1838.— "Anti-Slavery  Ballads." 
1850.— "Songs  of  Labor"  and  "Old  Portraits." 
1857. — Complete  edition  of  poems,  a  great  success. 
1853. — War  poems. 
1866.—  "Snow-Bound." 
1867.— "Tent  on  the  Beach." 
1868—  "Among  the  Hills." 


new  mm  poetry. 

Characteristics      of      Our 
Great  Poets. 


Bryant.  Longfellow,  Whittier  and 


Lowell 


»*, 


frfc 


Their  "Work  for  Literature  and 
Humanity. 


"  ;S 


[Written for  the  Traveller.] 
With  the  death  of  James  Russell 
Lowell  t'ue  poetical  voloe  of  New  Eng- 
land census  to  be  a  great  symphony,  and 
consists  only  of  b'o ken  chords;  for  death 
has  previously  robbed  us  of  William 
Culleu  Bryant  and  Henry  W.  Longfellow, 
and  a?e  and  infirmities  hushed  the  sweet 
sours  of  Whittier.  Now  the  lyre  is  silent, 
waiting  Tor  a  new  master  hand  to  touch 
and  sing  the  yet  unsung  songs  of  hu- 
manity. 

"Others  shall  sing  the  song. 
Others  shall  r;*httbe  wrong,— 
F.iiish  what  I  De^in. 
.\i\d  all  1  fail  oi  win." 
Poetry,     the     utterance   of    primeval 
thought,  i3  the  beginning  of  literature. 
The  ch:ld    loves    poetry    before   it  will 
listen  to  prose,  and  most  of  tboso  whose 
names  are  familiar  la  the  various  paths 
of  letters  made  tneir  first  step  by  means 
of    rhyme.     But   a  poet  is,   in  the  true 
sense   of    the  word,    born,    uot   made. 
To  be  able  to  interpret  the  voices  of  the 
ftoul  so  that  others  can  understand  them, 
and  to  set   that    interpretation    to   the 
musio  of  sound,  is  the  gift  of  but  few. 

Until  the  beginning  of  the  lbth  ceatury 
America  had  no  literature  of  her  own 
nor  did  she  feel  the  need  of  any.  The 
nation,  like  a  family,  had  been  "settling" 
and  the  mental  food  she  had  time  tor 
was  borrowed  from  the  mother  country, 
which  by  its  common  history  and 
language  belonged  as  much  to  America 
as  to  England.  But  after  the  revolution 
America  bepan  to  evolve  a  people  and 
civilisation  of  her  own  allied  to,  but  a 
counterpart  of  no  other.  It  was  then 
that  she  began  to  feel  the  need  of  a  liter- 


's 6S 

«  22 
to  a.  ft 
a  _ 

'—         en 

■°  a  3 
a  3  ? 

Cs 


28 


!s  a  a  i* 
£-2-3 

a  £.2  a 


ft  o  a 

*  s  © 
_§£  S 

4J      »     © 

js  ■* 
J3  w   O, 

is* 

-a 

*  :  ; 
a  3s 


^■Ofi 


a 

S.a.3  3 

®     (S     O     60 

2.2  5  £ 
.2  £2© 


*~2£  *  "  1 
^3  ¥■&**  & 


§■"21  * 


f  £*£ 

2  *$S 

-;    a    o   «> 

.  .S  -S  a  - 

»   «  d   0)T< 

—  -a   u>  a   o 

3  -    «    S  £ 

w   a  £  3   3 

a  "C    mm    ■      ° 
S    3  .—  T3  ;3 

a  -a  w  a  as 
a     .£  a 

a  2  £  5  3 


go 

2a 


«  a 


a 

it  <-  ■ 

o  it 

iS  o 


o§ 


a  * 


II 

3   m 

«*  a 

fs  a 
&| 

<0    mm 

a  -a 

Tt      O 
l- 

«    4> 

&3 
*I 

"a 

a  M 
ft  a 

a>^ 


A»a|  ° 

o  .  a) 

«  p^5 
.2^3 

"g  -a  m  3 

JOB, 

«  °*  «  £ 
—      a  ^3 

a  «  a 

2  *  B 

a  •    .  I 


^§3 


.iJaS 
is  iff  > 

M    . 

BJ   rf 

3a  J 
a  xj  ° 
»>  o  °> 

■O*'  ® 

3  "3    * 

5  e  2 

*  — . 

®  >  o 

a  °  P 
o  —  — 

»  2  a 

a  Sh 


2  5  s  3  Si  5 


man,  were  singularly  happv  in  their 
domestic  relations  and  were  men  of  un- 
exampled morality  and  Integrity. 

Bryant  and  Lowell  shared  in  common 
an  interest  in  polities,  and  occupied 
positions  ol  political  preferment,  both 
commenced  their  literary  careers  as  as- 
sistant editors  of  short-lived  magazines, 

-  Lowell  and  Longfellow    claimed  the 
same  place  of  residence  in  their  later- 
years,  were  both  £\vlce  married,  and  each 
in  torn  occupied  the  same  chair  in  Cam- 
bridge University. 

But  here  the  similarity  ceases.  Bry- 
ant, voiced  the  moods  ot  nature,  Long- 
fellow those  of  the  heart  and  home,  and 
Lowell  the  reason  and  the  mind.  The 
first  has  been  styled  the  Wordsworth  of 
his  country,  and  some  bare  charged  him 
with  imitation  ot,  when  bis  soul  was 
only  in  sympathy  with,  the  seal  of  the 
Lake  poet  His  style  was  thoughtful  and 
dignified,  and  possessed  a  simple 
grandeur  that  has  never  yet  been 
rivalled.  lie  takes  us  from  ourselves  and 
oar  narrow  ways  into  nature's  great  au- 
ditorium, he  bids  us  listen  to  her  voices 
and  learn  from  her  the  hidden  secrets  of 
life,  He  knew  nothing  aoout  the  wild 
chaos  of  passion  and  regret  of  which 
Byron  wrote,  or  the  religious  meta 
physics  of  Shelley.  His  domestic  joys 
during  an  unbroken  married  lite  of  4S 
years  were  un marred,  and  his  simple 
faith  in  the  Deity  during  his  84  years  of 
life  unquestioned.  Lowell  said  of  him: 
"And  shall  we  praise?  God's  praise  was 
hi-,  i  "fcp 

nd  on  onr  futile  laurels  he  looks  down, 

1. nisei!  our  bravest  crown." 

As  be  and  nature  had  been  inseparable 
! if p,  so  did  he  unite  himself  with  her 
t  death,  in   that   finest   of  his   poems, 
Tbanatopsis:" 
So  live  that  when  the  summons  comes  to 

IOIII 

T ho  innumerable  c.iravnn,  which  moves 
'Jo  that  mysterious  realm,  where  each  shall 

take 
His  (  hamw.r  in  the  silent  halls  of  death, 
'1  lion  .;"  nut,  like  the  qu.irry  slave  at  nicht. 
Nii'iu'-Tci  to  his  dungeon,  hut  sustained  acu 

southed  f* 

By  au  im.'ai  erins  trust,  approach  the  (trove 
ljae  ouo  who  wraps   the  drapery   ol    his 

Ci'Hrth  .  ,       -  -'  ■"  ■ 

About   hta>   anAilies  -  down    to  pleasant 

Lonfellow,  though  he  loves  nature  as 
a  po.'t  should,  only  thinks  of  her  as  the 
abude  of  Hi&watuas  and  Evungelines. 
His  province  is  the  heart  end  home,  his 
power  to  put  a  glory  about  the  s  ropiest 
act  ot  the  simplest  life;  as  he  humbly 
»ayg : 

"That  is  best  which  l;eth  nearest. 

Shtspe  irotu  this  iby  work  ol  art." 

iiryant  could  see  a  poem  in  a  violet 
and  Longfellow  in  a  blacksmith.  He 
spoKe  a  universal  language,  and  every 
o.ie  claimed  him  for  their  own.  from  the 
child  of  tender  age  to  the  white-haired 
patriarch,  lie  neither  dazzles  the  intel- 
lect or  surprises  the  imagination  as  Low- 
ell does,  he  moves  on  with  a  stately 
grace  and  steadiness  of  purpose  to  the 
end.  He  neither  reaches  above  or  falls 
below  you.  He  is  occasionally  tad,  but 
not  melancholy. 

His  Evangeline  does  not  die  without 
seeing  Gabriel ;  it  is  not  an  entirely  pop- 
ular ending  to  the  weary  search.  He 
would  have  more  sweet  than  bitter  In 
lite;  be  would  not  so  muoh  study  her 


63 

problems  as  he  would  admire  her  ways.  ' 
The  change  from  Longfellow  to  Lowell 
Is  like  passing  from  the  fair  and  sunny 
meadows  where  we  have  basked  in 
warmth  and  flowers,  to  the  high  ollffs 
beyond,  where  the  sunny  meadows  we 
hare  left  become  bnt  a  apeek  of  the  ka- 
leidescope  of  the  world.  If  you  wish  to 
have  him  for  company  you  most  with 
him, 

"—Not  fear  to  follow  eat  the  trutn. 
Albeit  along  the  precipioe's  edge." 

But  be  will  never  lead  you  over;  he 
will  carry  yon  to  the  brink ;  he  may  show 
you  a  tender  flower  growing  in  its  dark 
chasms  and  reaching  for  the  light,  or  he 
may  help  you  to  measure  the  dark  abyss. 
but  you  never  fall  because  he  never  does. 

He  la  bold  and  critical  keen  and  un- 
swerving in  his  judgment,  he  sees  his 
own  faults  and  foibles,  with  their  possi- 
bilities, as  well  as  those  of  others.  In 
his  "Fable  for  Critics"  He  says  of  him- 
self: 

"There  is  Lowvla  who's  stilt  lag-  Pw 

to  climb,         .      .  ,        ;,  _ ,      .. 
With  a  whole  bale  of  isms  tied  together 

with  rhyme,     .  ,     _..        .. 

He  mwnt  get  on  alone,  spite  ol  brambles 

and  boulders.  •     .  . 

But  he  can't  with  that  handle  he  has  en  his 

shoulders,     .  ...       ,  ■  ,. 

Tbe-t  p  of  the  hill  he  will  ne'er  com*  nlgb 

Till  be  learn-*  the  distinction  twixt  sing- 
ing and  preaching ;  ... 
His  lyre  has  noma  chords  that  would  ring 

Bnt  he^^Itber  by  half  make  a  drum  of  the 
shelL" 

No  one  could  have  criticised  him  so 
keei.ly  and  kindly,  as  he  has  himself, 
Dut  he  does .  not  tell  the  other  side,  that 
his  admirers  could.  His  pleasant  man- 
ner of  criticism  is  his  moat  felicitous 
vein,  it  was  the  one  upon  which  his 
reputation  was  founded?  in  the  first  rise 
of  the  "Blglow  Papers." 

The  story  of  Sir  LaunfaL  In  which 
the  subje.-t  of  the  Golden  Grail,  or  Last 
Cup  of  our  Saviour  is  worked  up  In  a 
manner  to  carry  a  lesson  to  any  genera- 
tion, is  a  beautiful  religious  conception. 
Here,  as  elsewhere,  Lowell  never  lost 
sight  of  the  nobility  of  simple  goodness. 
'Tis  not  in  lofty  crusades,  but  in  good 
deeds  at  his  own  door  that  mau  is  to 
work  the  perfection  of  his  destiny. 

He  sees  all  about  him  "the  ounce  of 
gold  exchanged  for  the  ounce  of  dross," 
but  he,  with  the,prophetio  insight  of  the 
poet,  doubts  not 

"That  after  us  seme  purer  scheme 

■Will  be  shaped  out  by  -iiser  men  than  we. 

Made  wiser  by  the  steady  growth  of  truth." 

He  has  cerried  out  "the  noble  purpose 
of  his  life  to  noDle  ends,"  and  as  we 
think  of  bis  silent  voice  we  wonder  who 
will  take  up  the  unfinished  prean. 

MaKY   1KGEK30U. 


THE  FORSAKEN    FARMHOUSE. 


Of  healthful  herb  and  flower  bereft. 
The  garden  plot  no  housewife  keeps; 

Through  weeds  and  tingle  only  left 
The  snake,  its  tenant,  creeps. 

A  lilac  spray,  once  blossom-clad. 

8ways  bare  before  the  empty  r 
Beside  the  rootless  porch  a  sad. 

Pathetic  rod  rose  blooms. 

His  track  in  mould  and  dnst  of  drouth. 

On  rloor  and  hearth  the  scrairrel  leaves. 
And  in  the  tireless  chimney's  mouth 

His  Wib  the  spider  weave  s. 

Tiie  leaning  barn  about  to  fall 
Resounds  no  mure  on  husking  eves ; 

No  cattle  low  in  yard  or  stall. 
No  thresher  boats  his  sheaves. 

So  sad.  so  drear!    It  seems  almost 
Some  nauuting  pre.ence  makes  its  sign ; 

That-  down  yon  shadowy  Jan*  some  ghost 
■u.j lit  drive  his  spectral  kino! 

Johx  G.  WKITTriR, 


Tlit  SluuUnrt*  of  Whistler's  "Far**. 

f  Philadelphia  Inquirer.)  OVCl  Jl 
In  many  parts  of  the  country  Whittier 
would  have  brer  hanged  to  a  lamp  post 
with  plensnto,  ani  In  all  the  other  nam 
be  was  to  some  exteut  a  social  pariah. 
The  manliness  of  fibre  in  licated  by  his 
anti-slavery  efforts  is  abundantly  mani- 
fested in  his  poetrv.  and  in  this  sense  it 
is  superior  to  the  work  of  any  other 
Amer.ean  po-'t,  and  on  this  account  it 
appeals  to  iorceiul  peopl  \  who  are  do- 
lug  tiis  world's  work,  as  the  smartness 
of  Emerson,  the  sentiment  of  Longfel- 
low, the  academics  verse  ef  Lowell  and 
the  i  lore  word  niongery  ot  other  writers 
cannot,  do  not  ani  never  will  appeal. 

IBS 


Aeainst  the  wooded  hills  it  stands. 
Ghost  of  a  dead  home,  staring  through 

Its  broken  light  on  wasted  lands 
Where  old-time  harvests  grew. 

TJnplowed,  unsowed.  bv  scythe  unshorn. 
The  poor  forsaken  farm  ne  ids  lie. 

Once  rich  and  rife  with  golden  corn 
And  pale  green  breadths  of  rye. 


Many  Friend!    Prom   AU    Sew    i.i.;l«pd 
P»n«nlUf  Crr«e*Mhe  Pee* 

Newbttbyt-obt,  Deo.  17.—  Th*   r.-oiet 
Quaker  house  Of  Mr.  and  Mrs,  Jose' 
Cartland  on  High  street  was  thr  ■■...*• 
of  unusual  activity  yesterday  on  ii. ••, 
casion    of   the  84th    birthday  oL>their 
friend  and  guest,  and  of-  WeWipglanrTs 
beloved  poet.  John/Greenleaf  Whittier. 
Visitors  were  present  from  a'..  |  ar  •  of 
New  England  lind  gilts  were  -    v.  t  om 
all  over  the  world.    Mr.  VY  littiet    was 
bright   and    vivacous   and    took       •  it 
dclinhf  in  i  onversin ;  with  his  visUt .  •. 

The  Whittier  Club  of  fi  iverMIl 
brought  witli  them  a  bunch  oi  •:  .  ;»■.; 
tilul  Mermei  uses,  encircled  with  broad 
bands  of  pint  satin  ribbon,  upon  ,'he 
ends  of  which  were  stamped  sketched  of 
Mr.  Whittier's  birthplace  and  the  old 
scnoolhouso  where  he  attended  school. 
Mrs.  .lames  1'.  Xieh<  .a  nPtue  same  cicv 
brought  a  unnclio-  .-  ■>  pinks. 

The  young  ladies  of  Laseil  seminary, 
Auburudaie,  contributed  some  e'egaat 
tea  roses,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  («cor*e  t>. 
Mullen*  of  Newton  also  sent  roses.  A 
bouquet  from  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Alexander 
1).  Iiro-vn  of  Newburypt.rt  attract  ••!  at- 
tention on  account  ot  its  size  an  I  beauty. 

The  uoet  Steadman  gave  an  arWstio  oil 
paint  inn  of  in*  Hampton  meadows. 

With  the  Haverhill  party  came  three 
old  schoolmates  frosty-headed  and  laden; 
with  years— lion.  ,).  JI.  Cariejon  of1 
Haverhill,  Mrs.  Warren  i-rdwayano  TV 
li.  Garland  of  Dover,  is.  H. 

Mrs.  Alice  Free!:  an  Palmer  present 
of  Wellesley  Cc  tad  cc-<;o'.""r>or 

and  Mrs.  Clarlin  cali  -    tttheo.-.v. 

An  important  h  ci'hjttt  was  Cm  visu  <>i 
Mrs  Bartlett,  mot  •  ■■  ■  the  aailant  '*. 
W.  Br.rtleit  ofwh  ni  Mi.  Whittier  wt<i  ■> 
in  verse.  Mrs.  Harriet  •  .  bout  8f»j  ..s 
o:d.  and  was  a  schoolmate  of  the  put  r, 
bavin.' attended  tiie  Haverhi!'  AcatTemy 
with  him. 


i'ernaps  the  ba  idsomest  present  r>. 
ceiveJ  i\as»  niouii  i  of  fruit  ft  'in  : 
Joim  frl  irl,  Charles  Coffin   of     j.y  n, 
which  oc  m>i  'i.  the  whr>le  o(   a  reWss 
near  a  !>::j-  window. 

Other  tokens    .    ,  •.••  "frona;'i.  et, 

Wenle'l  Holaies.  iiusiiop  Brooks.  Ft 

lizaoeth   Cavf.:.o.    Mar;.>     t& 

s  .  •-.  ,      .  ■  .Jeweti        \..y       ■  - 

co..  • .  ■  >r n  t ".  W:nthrop,     '  >.■}   Bu:   Is- 

.    M^    .i-  I'd  Hove, 

•    « .  I'eabud'-,  '•  i      vnj  others. 


QUAKER    POET    HONORED. 

Whittier  Celebrates  His   Eighty- 
Fourth  Birthday  at  Newburyport. 


Fourth  Birthday  at  Newburypc 

HeWelcomes  the  Haverhill  Whittier  Cli 
Person— Three  Old  Schoolmates  Visit  Him 

-Gifts  and  Congratulations  from  Interested 

F'"nd-  SfrtP  ill  ■ 

America's  uncrowned  poet  laureate  is  eighty- 
four  years  old  today,  and  Newburyport  la 
honored  as  it  has  sot  been  for  a  Ion*  time.  For 
the  last  few  years  John  G.  Whittier  has  not 
lived  at  Amesbury  all  the  time,  alt  hooch  he 
still  maintains  that  as  bis  leaal  residence  and 
votes  there ;  Instead  he  spends  a  part  of  the  time 
in  the  place  which  has  been  his  home  for  fifty- 
one  years,  and  passes  the  remainder  with  those 
loving  relatives  and  friends  who  are  only  too 
glad  to  welcome  him  to  their  homes.  Last  year 
his  birthday  came  while  he  was  at  Oak  Knoll 
in  Dan  vers.  This  year  it  is  celebrated  during 
his  stop  »t  the  home  of  Harriet  Livermore.  the 
school  mistress  ot  "Snow  Bound,"  which  is  now 
occupied  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joseph  Cartland.with 
whom  he  haa  passed  nearly  three-fourths  of  the 
past  year  in  Newburyport  and  at  the  moun- 
tains, 

Mr.  Whittier  is  an  early  riser  and  this  morn- 
ins  he  came  down  to  breakfast  at  the  usual 
time,  declaring  that  he  felt  better  than  usual 
although  he  was  a  little  afraid  that  he  might 
not  be  able  to  stand  the  fatigue  of  the  occasion. 
With  him  for  the  day  were  his  two  nieces  from 
Portland.  Maine,  Mrs.  Berry  and  Mrs.  S.  T. 
Pickard.  who  was  accompanied  by  her  hus- 
band, the  editor  of  the  Portland  Transcript,  and 
it  was  expected  that  the  poet's  nephew,  Charles 
F.  Whittier.  who  is  also  connected  with  the 
Portland  Transcript  would  arrive  before  night. 

Shortly  after  nine  o'clock  several  carriages 
drove  up  to  the  substantial  colonial  mansion  of 
Mr.  Cartland  on  High  street,  and  a  party  of 
ftfty-eeven  persons  from  Haverhill  entered. 
These  were  the  members  of  the  Whittier  Club 
of  that  city,  who  came  to  extend  their  congrat- 
ulations to  the  poet  whose  works  they  took 
such  delight  in  studying.  Although  Mr.  Whit- 
tier has  aot  for  some  time  been  able  to  stand 
lanre  birthday  receptions,  as  in  the  earlier 
yean  of  his  life,  he  wasglad  to  meet  this  organ- 
ization, ooming.  as  it  did,  from  his  eld  borne. 
and  the  brief  reception  was  carried  through  as 
arranged  tor  several  days  ago.  When  the  party 
had  entered  and  wraps  were  removed,  George 
C.  How,  the  president  of  the  club,  stepped  for- 
ward and  in  a  few  well-chosen  words  extended 
the  greetings  of  the  club  to  the  poet  and  their 
congratulations  on  his  eighty-fourth  birthday. 
Mr.  Whittier  was  deeply  moved  by  the  pleasant 
words  thus  spoken,  and  he  responded  briefly, 
expressing  his  own  gratitude  at  their  presence 
and  his  joy  that  it  was  not  true  that  a  "prophet 
was  not  without  honor  save  In  his  own  Coun- 
try." 

There  was  one  unusually  interesting  feature 
in  the  morning's  reception  and  that  was  a  re- 
union of  old  schoolmates  With'  the  party, 
which  left  Haverhill  In  a  special  car  at  8. 15 
A.  M.  came  three  gray-headed  persons  who  had 
been  to  school  with  Mr.  Whittier  in  the  pic- 


64 

turesque  old  schoolhouse  at  East  Haverhill. 
These  were  Hon.  James  H.  Carleton  of  Haver 
hill.  Mrs.  Warren  Ordway,  nee  Caroline  Foote 
of  Bradford,  and  Thomas  B.  Garland  of  Dover, 
N.  H.  It  was  a  sight  to  he  long  remembered. 
the  reunion  of  thee*  'schoolmates  of  long 
ago  and  the  pleasure  which  they  experienced 
in  talking  over,  if  only  for  a  few  moments, 
their  experiences  of  past  years.  There  was  one 
thing  upon  which  the  three  asrreed,  and  that 
was  tb at  Mr.  Whittier  appeared  in  unusually 
good  health  for  a  man  so  old  and  that  be 
seemed  considerably  stronger  physically  than 
at  the  last  reunion  which  they  held  at  Haverhill 
several  years  ago. 

An  extremely  pretty  floral  gift  was  that 
which  was  brought  by  the  club.  It  consisted  ot 
eighty-four  superb  pink  roses,  one  for  each  year 
of  the  poet's  life,  tied  with  a  broad  pink  ribbon, 
upon  each  end  ot  whloh  waa  a  beautiful  paint- 
ing In  water  colon,  done  by  a  member  of  the 
elub.  On  one  end  waa  a  picture  of  the  old 
house  at  East  Haverhill,  the  birthplace  of  Mr. 
Whittier,  the  other  end  had  an  excellent  repre- 
sentation of  the  old  schoolhouse  which  once 
stood  near  by.  With  this  last  picture  were  the 
words  from  his  poem  "In  School  Days," 

"Still  sits  the  schoolhouse  by  the  road. 
A  ragsed  h— —  mmmkmmM 

Many  -ot  Haverhill's  prominent  poor 
present  in  thejratherine  inMr.Cartland'i 
In  addition  to  President  How  the  club'' 
were  represented  by  Secretary  Clarence 
principal  of  the  Haverhill  High  Scl 
was  accompanied  by  his  wife.  Dudle 
Charles  Butters.  Thomas  Sanders,   or 
the  Board   of  Trade,   and   Rev.    St 
Duncan,  all  of  whom  were  memb> 
bor.rU  of  cMrectors.    Among  the  oth 
were  F»"n.   Thomas  E.   Bornham,  x 

Htverh  ill,  Albert  L.  Bartlntr.  superi. 
of  the  Haverhill  echooIs,Co!onel  Jones  Fra        t. 
Edwin     Capen.     libnriaD.     and     wife,     Rev^- 
William      W.     Everts,     Jr„      Rev-      Edward 
Dolman,       Rev.      J.      C.      Snow        nd 
.   ..      George     K.    Reed    and    wife  . 
Un»rt-.  ri«  t  I  .  Nelson  of  th«»  Haverhill    Hiffb 
brhoo'.,  Professor  L  N.  Carleton.  who  is  prln  ;- 
pal  of  a  private  school  at  Bradford,  Mia*   Annie 
F..  Johnson,   vrinripal    of  Bradford    A.—  lomy, 
and  Miss  Ida  C  Allen,  who  la   coui 
the  lame  institution.     After   all  of   .he.  party 
had  been  presented    to    Mr.    Whitttct    aud  tvi* 
poet  had  fcad  a   few   minutes   of  convei - 
with  each,  they  took  th&is  departure  an  '  h  ivo 
abont  Newburyport,  YiaRSng  the 
field  Church,  the  Marine  Museum   . 
trar;-  before  takimi  the  train  back  to  Haverhill 
at.  11.  A.  M. 

It  seemed  as  if  there  waa  a  regular  procession 
of  messengers  coming  to  the  door  with  tokens 
from  thoughtful  friends  and  despatches  con- 
taining words  of  congratulation  from  those  at  a 
distance.  The  gifts  which  had  already  arrived 
were  arranged  upon  the  tables  in  the 
parlors.  Particularly  noticeable  was  the 
gift  of  E.  Clarenoo  r»tedman,  the  poet, 
which  was  a  beautiful  painting  rep- 
resenting "High  Tide  at  Hampton  Meadows." 
the  work  ot  Carroll  B.  Brown.  In  another  room 
was  a  wicker  stand  heavily  lade  i  \»ith  the 
choicest  fruit,  the  gift  of  Charles  F.  Coffin  ot 
Lynn,  who  always  remembers  Mr.  Whittle* 
upon  his  birthdays  with  tokens  of  this  nature.  I 

A  unique  souvenir  was  that  sent  by  the  teach 
ers  and  pupils  of  the  public  schools  In  West 
Point,  Calaveras  County,  Cal.  It  consists  of  a 
ruler  made  up  of  twelve  different  kinds  of 
wood,  native  to  California  arranged  together  in 
a  most  artistic  manner.  Accompanying  waa  a 
letter  from  the  teachers,  E.  M.  Price  and  Miss 
M.  Langdon,  assuring  Mr.  Whittier  of  their  in. 
terest  in  him,  and  adding  that  the  pupils  were- 
to  celebrate  bis  birthday  by  holding  a  Kpecicl 
meeting,  at  which  many  ef  his  favor- 
ite poems  would  be  read  and  recited. 
Another  interesting  couvenlr  coming  from  the 


Pacific  slope  was  sent  by  John  Murray  of  Notd- 
boff,  Ventura  County.  CaL  It  consisted  ot  a, 
piece  of  olive  wood,  which  is  beginning  to  ba 
cultivated  In  Southern  California,  and  upon 
this  was  a  picture  ot  the  old  Santa  Barbara 
mission,  built  in  1786.  From  the  ladies  ofiWtn* 
Chester,  Virginia,  came  a  paper  cutter  made  ot 
wood  from  Fort  Loudon,  which  was  built  in 
that  place  by  George  Washington  in  17M. 
An  Independence  Hall  spoon  waa  thai 
gift  of  William  H.  and  Susan  B.  Swaaey.' 
A  pretty  footstool  was  the  gift  of  Elieebeth" 
Cavazza,  the  poetess  of  Portland,  Me.,  while.: 
Austin  P.  Nichols  sent  a  beautiful  transparency; 
representing  Whlttier's  blrtbplaee  as  "saow^. 
bound"  after  the  storm  of  March  6, 1891.  Floral 
gifts  were  everywhere,  among  the  most  notice* 
able  being  a  large  hunch  of  roses  sent  by  the 
girls  of  Lasell  Seminary  at  Auburndale.  and 
houqaets  from  A.  D.  Browne,  a  neighbor  s4 
Newburyport,  and  Mm,  George  Battens  of 
Newton. 

Mr.  Whittier  found  upon  his  table  today  a 
souvenir  containing  these  lines  which  wash 
written  by  Henry  O'Meara; 

O  minstrel  of  New  England's  themes, 
\Vhose  lyrics  stir  a  natal  lyre. 

While  legends  of  her  storied  streams 

Flow  on  ideal  in  thy  dreams- 
Live  to  interpret  and  inspire: 

Bard  in  our  freedom's  chants  made  dear. 
Whom  this  old  century  loves  so  long. 

Sing  for  the  new  that  listens  near— 

Thy  strain  responsive  in  her  ear— 
Thy  life-note  resonant  in  her  song  I 
All  day  loag  messages  of  congiatuletion  wet* 
being  received.    This  came  from  a  member  ot 
the  famous  Hutchinson  family: 

"A  nation's  greetings  be  thins  today, 
A  nation's  blessings  attend  thy  war. 

Abbt  Hctchdcsoh  Pattox.*' 

A  little  Indian  girl  sent  this  from  Brentford* 

Ont .: 
"Your  young  Mohawk   friend   asks   for  yo§ 

ixlayt  he  Great  Spirit's  blessing.  , 

E>  Pacuxs  JousbOX.*? 



From  the  senior  literature  class  of  the  Glouces- 
ter High  School  -was  the  following  message:. 

"Congratulations  to  our  loved  singer,  the 
wood  thrush  of  Essex." 

Mr.  Whittier  bore  the  reception  oi  the  morn- 
ing particularly  well  and  after  a  sho.-tTft  ho 
was  ready  to  trreet  the  friends  who  c  I'led  ti  tar 
to  congratulate  him  upon  his  anniversary .  He 
seemed  unusually  active  for  a  man  so  old  and 
all  the  friends  who  held  conversation  sjffirmed 
that  he  could  t&lk  with  greater  ease  than  ~.-.ts 
expected.  Mr.  Wintrier  is  holding  his  stieugta 
in  »  remarkable  tanner,  auo  he  takes  the  ut- 
most care  of  himself.  His  great  feat1  is  of 
pneumonia  and  he  takes  great  pains  not  to  be 
exposed  to  the  cold  of  the  winter. 

Two  Pons  at  SO. 
jon.v  a.  ivnrrrrsB,owj?ts  60ni  uirthdat.  ; 
Friend,  whom  thy  fourscore  winters  leave  more 
dear 
Thau   when  life's  roseate  summer  On  thy 
check 
Burned  in  the  flush  of  manhood's  manliest 
year, 
Lonely,  how  lonely!  is  the  sno^y  peak 
Thy  feet  have  reached  and  mine  ha  »e  climbed 

ko  near! 
Close  on  tbr  footsteps  *mid  the  landscape  drear 
I  stretched  my  hand  thy  answering  grasp  to 

»ek. 
Warm  v-ith  the  love  no  rippling  rhymes  can 
speak. 
Lo.>k  backward!    From  thy  lofty  heights  sur- 
vey 
Thy  years  of  toil,  of  peaceful  victories  won, 
Or  dreams  made  real  and  largest  hopes  out- 
run. 
Look  forward!    Brighter  than  earth's  morning 
ray 
Streams  the  pure  light  of  heaven's  unsettlng 
sun. 
The  all-uo'doudid  dawn  of  life's  immortal  day. 
-[Oliver  Wendell  Holmes. 

Co«.Tm*sel  oi/tf. 


OLIVER  WXNDEIX  HOLMES,  ON  HOB  60TH  BIBTH- 
DAT. 

Climbing  the  path  that  leads  bsck  nevermore. 

We  heard  behind  big  footstep*  and  hi*  cheer; 

Now.  face  to  lace,  we.  greet  hint,  standing 
here,  _  _ 

Upon  the  lonely  gummtt  or  Fourscore. 
Welcome  to  us.  o'er  whom  tne  lengthened  day 

Is  closiDg,  and  the  shadows  deeper  grow. 

His  genial  presence,  like  an  afterglow 
Following  the  one  ju^t  vanishing  away. 
Long  be  it  ere  the  table  shall  be  set 

For  the  last  breakfast  of  the  Autocrat. 

And    Love  repeat,  with   smiles  and  tears, 
thereat  "        - 

His  own  sweet  songs,  that  time  shall  not  forget, 
Waiting  with  him  the  call  to  come  up  higher. 
Life  is  not  less,  the  heavens  are  only  nigner, 

8tn  mo,  28, 1869.  -[John  G.  Whlttier. 


JOHN  GREENLEAF  WHITTIER 

At  Four  Score  and  Four. 

Jobs  Greenleaf  Whlttier  was  horn  December 
«7th   ij;n7,  and  therefore  is  now  four  score  and 
for-  years  old.    Like  many  another  New  Eur- 
land  lad.  he  has,  from  the  humblest  walks  of 
life,  by  his  own  strength  and  will  and  purpose, 
risen  to  that  plane  where  he  can  stand  before 
kings.    The  euc) clop:edla  and  biographies  tell 
c*    .'  the  early  days,  ol  the  home  in  Haverh-.il, 
nl  the  humble  and  moderate  struggles  with  life 
and  traffic,  of  the  country  boy  sending  hi*  first 
pooin  to  the  paper  in  Newburyport.  and  of  the 
coming  of  William  Lloyd  Garrison  to  the  conn 
try  house  to  seek  out  the  author,  of  the  mutual 
and  true  friendship  which  ever  after  existed 
between  these  men,  of  Mr.  Whittier's  literary 
and    editorial  writings.    All  through   his   life 
items    and   incidents  have  been    caught  up. 
so  that  the  lover  of  poetry  and  reform,  and  the 
youth  of  our  schools  are  as  one  In  gaining  in- 
spiration and  trust  and  courage  by  learaing  of 
one  who  has  grown  up  in  our  own  New  Ens- 
land,  whose  life   and   poetry  is  revered   and 
whom  all  the  world  delights  to  honor.    In  the 
presence  of  such  men  as  Longfellow,  Lowell, 
nnd  Whittier  we  atand  with  uncovered  heads. 
Lonrrfellow   aDd  J  ..-well  have  passed  on.    Dr. 
Holmes  and    Mr.  Whittier    remain.    It  gives 
pleasure  to  the  hearts  of  the  admirers  of  the 
penius  and   ability  ot    the  genain*  American 
to  revere  and  recall  the  services  which  its  great 
men  and  women  have  rendered  the  world. 
This  pleasure  grows   upon    our  nation.    The 
ptihlicfcfiools  enter  Into  the  celebration  of  the 
■  irtiid.iys  of  these  noble  people  with  a  true  zeal. 
"■  lie  men  and  women  who  have  passed  on  to  the 
l'amortal  home  are  ;jonie  in  mind,   and  those 
yet  on  the  shores  of  time  are  not  neglected. 
These  men  cannot  be  unmindful  of  the  respect 
in  which  they  were  and  are  held.    The  world  is 
quicker  to  respond  to  high  thinkingand  genius 
than  formerly.    The  world  of  science  and  me- 
chanics has  brought  untold  blessings  to  the 
student  and  poet.     The  genius    of  a    Sbak- 
•peare  would  not  have  been  relegated  to  a  later 
generation  to  be  appreciated  if  the  telegraph 
and  daily  paper  had  existed  in  his  day.    These 
great  forces  publish  to  the  world  the  exalted 
sentiments   of  reform,  poetry,  statesmanship 
and  science,  and  those  whose  eye  and  ear  are  in 
attune  are  quick  to  respond.    The  rapid  living 
of  today  brings  people  of  similar   likes  and 
tastes  speedily  together.   The  world  of  today  is 
quicker,  readier  to  recognize  genius  and  true 
worth  than  In  earlier  times. 

I  shall  ^always  regard  it  among  the  choice 
things  of  my  experience  that  tor  four  years 
I  lived  in  Amesbury  as  a  neighbor  of  Mr. 
Whlttier,  and  that  our  meetings  at  the  post 
office,  on  the  street  er  in  the  house  have  in 
them  treasures  ot  thought  and  inspiration 
which  will  last  with  life.  Oftentimes 
we  have  idols  which  w*  dare  not  take 
down  from  the  pedestal.  They  do  not  bear 
handling,     close     inspection.    There    are    au- 


65 

thors  whose  writings  are  noble,  but  whose  daily 
living  is  full  of  sadness  and  disappointment. 
We  know  of  them  by  their  proseor  their  poetry, 
but  an  intimate  knowledge  of  their  charac- 
ters and  walk  among  men  would  shatter 
our  idoL  But  not  so  with  Mr.  Whittier.  His 
living  will  bear  inspection.  There  are  no 
skeletons  in  his  closet.  We  do  not  have  to  halt 
and  stammer  when  we  speak  one  to  another  of 
his  dally  life.  He  loves  his  home  life.  He  de- 
lights in  his  close  friends.  He  was  born  in  Haver- 
hill-  After  the  death  of  his  father,  the  family 
sold  the  farm  and  removed  to  Amesbury.  where 
they  attended  Meeting  on  the  First  Day.  The 
youth  of  Whittier  on  the  farm  is  oftentimes 
pictured  in  his  poems.  The  scenes  which  meet 
him  on  the  way  from  his  home  to  his  Meeting 
are  those  most  fully  and  graphically  dwelt  upon. 
Early  impressions  have  been  his  choice  inspira- 
tions, Mr.  Whittier  became  a  writer  and  editor, 
his  brother  early  left  the  old  farm,  a  sister  was 
the  village  schoolteacher,  and  another  sister 
cared  for  the  home  and  the  mother  advancing 
in  years.  Mr.  Whittier  is  the  only  one  remain- 
ing His  legal  home  is  Amesbury,  and  he  is 
ever  there  on  election  day.  The  homestead  is 
cared  for  nowadays  by  Judge  Cate.  The  home 
being  broken.  Mr.  Whittier  goes  about  among 
his  several  stopping  places.  Now  be  Is  at  Dan- 
vers,  now  Newburyport,  now  Portland,  now 
Helderness  among  the  White  Mountains.  Bat 
to  Amesbury  he  is  attached  with  deep 
love. '  He  is  now  eighty  •  four  years 
eld.  The  other  day  I  was  talking  with 
Judge  Cate ;  he  said,  "Mr.  Whittier  is  not  a  sick 
man,  but  is  an  old  man."  It  is  n>t  strange, 
therefore,  that  reports  often  get  into  the  papers 
concerning  his  ill-health.  Nature  must  with 
him  soon  give  way.  The  poor  body  may  be- 
come frail  and  fall,  but  lis  great  and  noble 
soul,  like  that  of  his  old  companion,  will  go 
"marching  onr**  He  has  given  much  to  the 
world.  And  the  world  is  not  slow  in  returning 
the  appreciation.  It  doe*  his  heart  good  to 
know  of  the  world-wide  reference  in  which  he 
is  held.  No  man  could  resist  the  sympathy 
which  rolls  in  upon  him;  ind  yet  be  sees  how 
small  bis  work  has  been.  He  sees  wherein  he 
could  have  don*  better.  Bis  heart  is  like  that 
of  us  all.  Experience  andage  have  brought  us 
lessons.  And  we  all  can  rtadlly  see  wherein  a 
better  and  a  nobler  llvlngund  influence  could 
have  bean  wrought.    We  are  not  satisfied  with 

what  we  have  attained.  Ve  desire  to  perfect 
that  which  we  have,  and  do  better  than  what 
we  have  accomplished.  In  his  age,  as  men 
count  age.  Mr.  Whittier  is  ttill  young,  hopeful, 
cheerful.  Hehas  ever  regarded  the  upper  and 
nobler  side  of  life,  and  this  has  been 
for  the  keeping  of  hit  heart  near  to 
the  source  of  those  pa?*tona  for  purity, 
trust,  confidence  and  trut  joy,  which  make 
youth  and  childhood  the  delight  of  all  the 
world. 

The  Quaker  meeting- hots*,  where  Mr.  Whlt- 
tier through  all  his  life  baa  attended,  is  but  a 
short  distance  from  the  tomestead  m  Ames- 
bury. Here  are  the  memories  of  the  friends 
with  whom  he  has  trod  the  quiet  aisles  of 
prayer.  -  But,  it  is  the  tradition  that  the  Spirit 
never  moved  him  to  speak  in  Meeting.  He  is 
git  tad  as  a  writer,  the  finest  and  purest  of  liter- 
ature flows  from  his  Den ;  but  yet  he  cannot,  or 
at  least  has  not,  spoken  in  Meeting.  Convers- 
ing with  him  once  on  preaching  without  a 
manuscript,  Mr.  Whittier  : asked,  "How  can 
the*  think  on  thy  feet?"  This  was  a  great 
mystery,  how  that  a  person  could  stand  before 
an  audience  without  a  manuscript.  It  is  a  great 
thing  to  do.  Many  attempt,  bnt  few,  very  few, 
succeed.  Mr.  Whittier  is  a  lover  of  travels, 
diaries,  biographies,  and  bo  follows  with  keen 
delight  our  explorations  in  new  and  unknown 
regions.  The  exploits  Oi  his  friend  Greely 
into  the  Arctic  circle,  kept  his  mind  at  high 
tension,  and  when  tlo  word  pasted  over 
the      world       that     Gree'.v       was      rescoed 


—with  all  his  neighbor-*.  hi  rejoiced. 
And  when  Stanley  was  in  the  depths'  of  an 
African  continent,  he  said  that  be  would  rather 
shake  hands  with  Stanley  than  any  other,  man. 
Mr.  Whittier  delights  In  the  common  life  and 
in  tuedarintf  nnd  heroism  ot  a  person  who  it 
striving  to  unfold  and  bring  to  light  new  and 
hidden  things.  The  explorations  going  on  in 
Palestine,  E*ypt,  Babylon,  Nineveh  as  well  as 
anion*  the  ruined  cities  of  the  Roman  and  fire* 
clan  rcalin  enuaaa  his  mind.  And  yet  with  all 
iiis  lcveoi"  travel,  of  journeys  in  foreign  lands, 
of  explorations  in  tropic  or  polar  part*— with 
his  lik  i  off  lor  mese.  Mr.  Whittier  is  no  traveller, 
scarcely  having  been  out  of  Mew  England,  ex- 
cept to  Philadelphia.  And  further,  he  is  a 
lover  oi  grand  views,  he  revels  in  looking  upon 
the  rolling  -i-iii  unceasing  ocean,  be  revels 
amidst  the  landscapes  of  the  White  Mountains, 
yet  has  never  seen  Niagara  Falls— a  natural 
wondc-r  of  all  tho  world,  within  five  hundred 
miles  of  His  owu  homo.  The  varied,  choice  and 
luxuriant  landscapes  of  his  own  Essex  County 
give  him  pleasure.  Here  are  rolling  lands, 
river,  mountain  view  and  ocean.  These  thrilled 
his  heart  and  have  moved  his  pen  to  give  word- 
pictures  of  nature  and  landscape  unsurpassed. 

Mr.  Whittier  is  a  rare  conversationalist.  A 
person  of  his  tastes  and  temperament,  however, 
has  moods  and  moments  whan  to  converse 
would  be  al  most  impossible.  At  snch  time*  Mr. 
Whittier  has  been  known  not  to  recognize  a 
neighbor.  His  mind  was  upon  other  thing* ;  he 
was  engrossed,  so  that  the  matters  of  ordinary 
life  were  unnoticed.  This  is  not  a  strange  ex- 
perience. It  is  that  of  which  every  strong  and 
eamest  person  knows.  But  I  have  been  with 
Mr.  Whittier  when  at  his  best,  when  his  tongue 
would  be  loosened,  and  rich  and  quickened 
conversation  would  flow  from  hi*  lips.  He  was 
full  of  reminiscence.  His  choice  was  subjects  of 
exploration,  travel,  early  American  sociology, 
1 1)  j  reforms  of  the  day,  the  freeh  industries  of 
the  Church ;  all  gave  him  wide  fields  for  conver- 
sation. 

Mr.  Whlttier  is  no  mean  student  of  theology 
and  religious  efforts.  H*  has  always  kept 
his  mind  fresh  and  vigorous  with  new  read- 
ing and  study.  He  is  not  a  theologian,  hut 
loves  the  study  of  God;  and  this  study  is  the 
more  keen  and  lively  because  of  his  deep  love 
for  humanity,  made  in  the  likeness  of  God.  He 
is  a  student  of  the  better  side  of  human  na- 
ture. He  believes  in  the  nature  ot  man.  He 
holds  the  idea  that  sin.  wrong,  injustice  are 
vulnerable.  That  the  nature  within  the  soul. 
it  it  but  assert  itself,  would  cast  out  sin  and 
trample  injustice  and  wrong  underneath  the 
feet  The  great  thought  ot  Jesus  is  a  theme 
of  inspiration— that  good  is  able  to  overcome 
evil.  In  his  study  of  God  and  humanity,  he 
early  saw  their  kinship,  and  all  his  appeals  were 
from  this  point.  He  had  no  long  definitions  for 
God,  for  the  mission  of  Jesus,  the  nature  of  the 
human  heart,  the  mysteries  of  life  or  the  world 
into  which  we  shall  pass.  Few,  but  central, 
ideas  have  governed  him  all  through  life.  Hi* 
religion  is  an  affair  to  live.  It  is  the  reception 
ot  a  truer  and  nobler  character.  It  is  a  senti- 
ment, a  faith,  a  confidence,  which  is  real  in 
the  common  ways  and  trials  of  today.  He, 
reduces  whole  schemes  ot  theology  to 
simple  statements,  and  these  he  does  not 
thrust      upon      others.  But      his      great 

statements  of  God,  duty,  the  masterful 
spirit  of  Jesus  and  humanity  set  forth 
in  perfect  gems  of  rhythm  and  rhyme.have  been 
given  with  snoh  sweet  reasonableness  aa  have 
made  them  handmaids  in  helping  the  world 
into  a  clearer  and  more  delightful  vision  ot  God 
and  Immortality.  The  exquisite  liberality  and 
tone  of  his  poems  lead  and  hold  onr  hearts.  His 
poems  ar*  forceful  because  they  tell  u*  in  di- 
rect and  unhesitating  language  the  story  of  his 
faith  and  confidence.  It  takes  a  strong  person- 
to  master  and  lead.  Mr.  Whittier  is  strong;' 
and  men   and  women  of  all  lands  and  of  all 


phases  of  religious  belief  have  been  by  him  as- 
sisted aod  upbuilt  in  spirit  and  In  truth, 

"O  Lord  end  Master  of  us  all  I 

Wb»u'«  our  names  or  sign. 
We  own  thy  sway,  we  hear  thy  call. 

We  test  our  lives  bv  thine. 

O  Love  I   0  Lite  I    Our  faith  and  sight 

Thy  presence  maketh  one; 
As  through  transfUrured  clouds  of  white 

We  trace  the  noonday  sun. 

So,  to  our  mortal  eyes  subdued. 

Flesh-veiled  but  not  concealed. 
We  know  in  thee  the  Fatherhood 

And  heart  of  God  revealed. 

We  faintly  hear,  we  dimly  see. 

In  differing-  phrase  we  pray ; 
But,  dim  or  clear,  we  own  in  thee 

The  Light,  the  Truth,  the  Way. 

Our  Friend,  onr  Brother,  and  our  Lord, 

What  may  thy  service  be?— 
Nor  name,  nor  form,  nor  ritual  word. 

But  simply  following  Thee." 

The  poems  of  Mr.  Whittier.  whether  of  the 
reforms  of  his  early  manhood,  or  relating  to  the 
society  of  early  Quaker  and  Puritan  days,  or  in 
reminiscence  of  some  heroio  and  patrlotio  in- 
cident,, were  each  composed  from  the 
high  plane  of  the  spiritual.  The  summit  of 
life  is  his  standpoint.  From  this  he  views  life 
and  all  experience.  They  who  are  on  the 
mountain  gain  the  better  and  clearer  view. 
Looking  at  life  as  it  is,  from  the  spiritual  out- 
look, a  new  animation  and  courage  is  gained. 
Mr.  Wblttler  came  to  the  defence  of  the  weak, 
the  oppressed  and  the  wronged,  and  because  of 
the  high  point  of  Judgment  in  the  time  of  crisis, 
he  has  been  able  to  be  a  powerful  prince 
among  the  Lord's  host  on  the  earth,  in  making 
the  weak  stronger,  the  oppressed  to  be  made 
free  and  the  wronged  to  b*  so  presented  that 
the  world  has  hastened  to  undo  the  injustice. 
The  poetry  of  Whittier  has  been  helpful,  hope- 
ful and  brave.  The  word  of  courage  and  of 
help  is  the  word  humanity  needs.  There  is 
love,  true  love,  beneath  it  all.  The  lives  of 
many  have  been  distorted,  ill-grown  and  un- 
folded, because  of  the  older  teachings  of  man's 
nature,  of  the  far-away  character  of  the  minis- 
tries of  Jesus  and  the  placing  ef  God  on  a  throne 
tar  away  and  only  Judging  and  frowning;  but  in 
the  newer  Protestantism  where  love  and  grace 
and  brotherhood  are  emphasized  and  enforced, 
the  better  side  of  humanity  will  be  brought  out 
and  ennobled.  The  story  of  the  Eternal  Good- 
ness is  true  of  all  hearts.  The  earnest  thought 
finds  ready  response.  Humanity  has  been 
voiced  by  those  enrapturing  lines— 

"Who  fathoms  the  eternal  thought? 

Who  talks  of  scheme  and  plan? 
The  Lord  is  God  1    Heneedethnot 

The  poor  device  of  man. 
I  walk  with  bare  bushed  tent  the  ground 

Te  tread  with  boldness  shod ; 
I  dure  not  fix  with  mete  and  bound 

The  love  and  power  of  God." 

'  Mr.  Whittier  recognizes  the  Justice  of  God.  he 
lrnows  of  divine  royalty,  he  sees  a  world  of  pain, 
within  himself  no  merit,  but  yet  in  all 
the  maddening  maze  of  things  he  knows 
that  God  is  good.  No  man  is  more  willing  to 
take  the  world  as  it  is. 

'The  wrong  that  pains  my  soul  below 
I  darenot  t  h rone  above :       \ 

I  know  not  of  his  hate,— I  know 
His  goodness  and  his  love. 

I  dimly  guess  from  blessings  known 

Of  greater  oat  of  sight. 
And  with  the  chastened  Psalmist  own 

Hisjudgments  too  are  right. 

>-  <•■  jg  * 

I  know  not  what  the  future  bath 
Of  marvel  or  surprise,  ••  ■•■ 

A&sured  alone  that  life  and  death 
His  mercy  underlies. 

*         ■  •  •  •  •  •  .■ 

i        And  so  beside  the  silent  sen 

I  wait  the  muffled  oar. 
I        No~barm  from  him  can  come  to  me 
On  ocean  or  on  shore. 


66 

I  know  not  where  his  islands  lift. 

Their  fronded  palms  in  sir, 
I  only  know  I  cannot  drift 

Beyond  his  love  and  care." 

Such  words  and  sentiments  hare  been  for  the 
ushering  in  of  a  new  dispensation.  They  help 
us  to  read  all  life  and  trial  in  the  light  of  an 
unceasing  affection.  Truly,  the  world  owes 
and  is  ready  to  bestow  gratitude  upon  Mr.  Whit- 
tier, and  prays  that  his  remaining  days  may  be 
free  from  pain  and  full  of  love  and  peaoe. 

An  boh  Trroa. 

A  Visit  to  the  Poet  WhitUer  at  Oak  KnolL. 

The  picture  of  this  favorite  New  England 
poet  in  the  December  Arena,  and  the  interest- 
ing sketch  in  the  same  number  by  George  Stew- 
art, LL.  D.,  has  brought  back  to  my  mind  a 
visit  made  to  this  friendly  and  philanthropic 
author  at  Oak  KnolL  several  years  ago.  I 
started  from  Grovel  and,  Mass.,  with  a  friend 
and  reached  bis  winter  home  on  a  forenoon  of 
March.  As  we  stood  at  his  doer  a  light  snow 
began  to  fall,  and  the  sweet,  humid  atmosphere 
and  picturesque  color  of  those  surroundings  are 
vividly  brought  back  in  vision. 

We  had  been  told  that  he  could  not  see  stran- 
gersr  and  were  pleasantly  surprised  when  he 
came  to  the  door  himself  to  welcome  us.  He 
led  us  into  his  study,  and  the  comfort  and  re- 
finement of  this  sweet,  homelike  room  were 
made  apparent  to  bur  souls  before  the  surround- 
ings and  pictorial  effects  were  apparent  to  onr 
sight. 

When  we  were  comfortably  seated,  he  left 
the  room,  and  soon  returned  with  his  arms 
full  of  shingles  which  had  been  dropped  from 
a  roof  lately  repaired.  These  light  frag, 
ments  which  burn  so  freely  had  been  brought 
to  replenish  the  fire  on  the  hearth  which  was 
to  weloome  us.  and  the  gentle  servio©  of  his 
bringing  the  fuel  in  himself  reminds  me  still  of 
the  spirit  of  "Snow  Bound,"  that  much-loved 
description  of  New  England  farm  life  when  be 
was  a  boy. 

What  a  sweet  season  we  spent  on  that  gray 
March  day  with  the  dear  old  poet  would  bees 
hard  to  describe-as  to  picture 

"The  soul  of  the  rose !" 

The  influence  was  as  calm",  sweet  and  gentle 

as  the  spirit  of  the  Hebrew  psalm,  which  brings 

the  sight  of  green  pastures  and  gently  gliding 

waters  which  restore  the  soul 

We  had  not  expected  to  pass  an  hour  there. 
not  being  acquainted  with  the  trains,  but  were 
courteously  constrained  to  stay  to  dinner.  We 
sat  down  soon  to  the  table  of  his  hospitable 
cousins,  whose  home'  is  open  to  the 
poet  at  Oak  Knoll  in  Danvers,  Mass.  It 
I  could  turn  to  an  old  letter  which 
I  wrote  after  this  visit,  I  could  toll  yon  much 
'  of  the  conversation  that  day  in  the  poet's  home, 
which  made  us  free  as  among  friends.  He  even 
said  that  it  rested  and  pleased  him  to  see  us 
there.  He  soon  alluded  to  his  life  in  Haverhill, 
as  out  Groveland  home  is  only  across  the 
Merrimack  river  from  that  now  busy  city.  He 
spoke  of  the  old  brick  academy  where  he  went 
to  school  in  1837.  That  building  is  now  in  fine 
repair,  and  stands  on  a  commanding  place  in 
Winter  street.  The  pupils  who  tread  those 
shaded  walks  of  the  now  called  "Whittier 
School"  are  younger  than  he  was  when  he 
|  studied  so  zealously  for  half  a  year  there  to 
I  prepare  to  teach  the  boys  and  girls  in  the  dis- 
trict school  of  the  region  now 
called  West  Amesbury.  He  spoke 
of  that  pari:  of  his  editorial  career 
when  he  war  connected  with  the  Haverhill 
Gazette,  and  we  remembered  together  some  of 
the  persons  of  his  acquaintance  who  still  dwelt 
in  the  Merrimack  Valley. 

After  dinner,  when  the  fire  waa  renewed,  the 
conversation  drifted  gently  to  books  and  poe- 
try. It  did  not  'seem  to  weary  him  when  I 
spoke  of  some  of  his  own  works,  and  especially 


of  one  called  "Memories,"  a  charming  lyric  of 
tender  pictures  of  a  youthful  friend— 

"A  beautiful  and  happy  girl. 
With  step  as  soft  as  summer  air." 

His  kind  eyes  brightened  when  I  declared 
that  I  loved  that  best  of  all,  and  that  I  had 
learned  it  from  "Russell's  Reader"  when  I  was 
a  young  girl  at  Bradford  Academy.  He  said,  "I 
love  it,  too ;  but  I  hardly  knew  whether  to  ru>- 
lish  it,  it  was  so  personal  and  near  to  my 
heart."  » 

While  I  sat  thus,  listening  to  his  gentle  voteev 
the  words  of  the  sweet  poem  came  back,  and 
the  vision  that  he  loves  so  well  of  the  pathwrrs 
around  the  Merrimack,  and  the  toreat-shaded 
brooks  and  mossy  hill.    Then  the  barmen/  of 
the  scene  was  blended  with  the  splnt  of  his 
sylvan  songs,  till  the  last  verse  of  that  poem 
called  "Memories"  came  back  to  me  thus,  en, 
tire- 
Thus  while  at  times  before  our  eye 
The  clouds  around  the  present  part. 
And  smiling  through  them  round  us  lie 
Soft  hues  of  memory's  morning  sky, 
The  Indian  Summer  of  the  heart- 
In  secret  sympathies  of  mind. 
In  founts  of  feeling,  which  retain 
Their  pore,  fresh  glow,  we  yet  may  find 
Our  early  dreams  not  wholly  Tain." 

Before  the  afternoon  waned  we  asked  tl 
privilege  to  go  out  to  the  grounds  of  this  fir. 
mansion,  although  the  gentle  snow  was  stl 
falling,  flake  by  flake,  in  soft  crystals. 

The  atmosphere  which  was  the  precursor  o 
coming  spring.  Was  as  serene  as  the  poet's  lift 
which  we  had  seen  through  his  pure  personal! 
ty  here  in  these  sequestered  shades.  The 
silver  sky  and  the  misty  air  blended  In  tone 
with  the  leaves  of  the  larch-tree*;  which  still 
remained  on  the  trees  to  tell  of  the  summer 
which  was  passed.  As  we  gathered  some  of 
these  types  of  nature  to  send  to  other  shores, 
the  whole  picture  of  the  home  at  Oak .  Knoll 
was  stamped  upon  our  souls,  with  the  serene 
poet  as  the  living  spirit,  never  to  be  forgotten. 

We  entered  the  house  again  and  the  fire  once 
more  sent  up  its  "ruddy  glow."  as  when  in  t| 
old  farmhouse,  the  birthplace  of   this 
one— 

"Shut  In  from  all  the  world  withon 

[They]  sat  the  olean-winged  hearth  about." 

We  bent  over  the  bright  flames  together 
again  and  talked  of  soino  of  the  mysteries  of 
life,  and  its  many  changes  and  mmjscnsivttons. 
He  was  Just  ready  to  give  some  thon,-ut  on  the 
central  truth  of  spiritualism,  when  oru  c  n llp^e 
came  to  take  us  away  from  Oak  Knoll  Aft«r 
kindest  farewells,  we  did  i,ot  need  to  look 
back  to  the  mansion  and  the  tret-s.  iY.t  we  car 
ried  in  memory  the  sweet  scene?  an  ■:<  the  serenn 
thoughts  of  beauty  and  truth  personified  there. 
Julia  Noyks  Suckskv.    - 

8  Pembroke  Street.  I 


jroa  v  aBBiSLsmf  whittiw. 

The  hearts  of  thousands  of  his 
countrymen  throughout  the  length 
and  breadth  of  the  land,  will  turn  to- 
day, with  love  and  grateful  remem- 
brance, to  John  Greenleaf  Whittier, 
New  England's  beet-loved  poet,  as 
he  passes  another  milestone  in  his 
long  life- journey,  and  enters  on  his 
eighty-fifth  year.  There,  may  have 
been  greater  poetf  than  he;  very 
likely  he  will  never  have  in  the 
world's  judgment,  a  place  among  the 
few  great  immortals,  but  the  world 
will  not  forget  that  for  half  a  cen- 
tury his  songs    have  been  lor  the 


nthht 
lottd 


3 


hope  and  the  help  of  his  fellowmen. 
His  verrse  abounds  with  the  great  im- 
mortal troths  whicn  stimulate  faith, 
hope  and  courage;  he  has  been  the 
poet  of  peace,  of  religion;  be  lias 
awakened  the  deepest,  tender?-*, 
holie«t  emotions.  He  has  mad*  men 
lore  him.  "Scow  Bound,"'  is  rorfhy 
a  place  beside  the  "Cotter' s  Saturday 
Nigbr."  ajid  '"Between  the  Gate*," 
"Among  the  Hills,"  th*  "Centenmr.1 
Ode,"  "Maud  Muller,"  and  thos 
matchless  lyrics,  in  "Voices  of  Free 
dom,"  and  "la  War  Time,"  -riS!  toi 
be  forgotten  by  humanity.  la  the 
late  hour  of  his  afternoon  of  life,  a.-, 
the  shadows  fall,  he  is  naturally 
lonely.  Dr.  Holmes,  in  writing  to 
him  pays  him  this  tribute,  thou-' 
tb-re  is  a  pathos  in  hi?  T»ord«  '  ' 
congratulate  you  on  having  .!»:  u  .i 
another  glacier  and  cros«ed  another 
crevasse  in  your  ascent  cf  the  whit' 
summit  which  already  begins  to  see 
tbe  morning  twilight  of  the  "omizr 
century.  A  life  so  well  filled  a.s  yours 
ha?  been  cannot  be  too  long  for  yvur 
fellow  men  and  women.  In  thci: 
affection!  you  are  secure,  rrhether 
you  ere  with  them  here  or  near  thera 
in  some  higher  life  than  th-fr?.  I 
hop*  yorsr  years  here  net  become  a 
burccn.  so  that  you  are  tired  of  liv- 
ing. At  our  age  .we  must  live  chiefly 
in  the  ptsr,  Happy  is  he  who  has  a 
past  like  yours  to  lcok  back  irron.  1 1 
is  one  of  the  felicitous  incidents — 7 
will  not  say  accident*— of  my  life 
that  the  lapse  of  time  hit  hr&nkt 
us  very  n«er  together,  so  th«*  J"T*5- 
qn-intly  flnrl  vyself  honored  \/f  *ee- 
iag  m*  Larnc  mentioned  m  near  een- 
nectina  with  you  now.  TTe  Are 
lor»*'y.  very  lonely,  ia  these  last 
years."  John  G.  Whittier  ia  secure 
in  the  aSpclion  and  respc.r.  if-  hff 
countrymen.  He  Has  never  failed  irt 
his  duty. 


wniTTJEJt'f  XETrnTtTTor.T    tro> 


!Tot  ana  then  the  item  rtap-nears  in  tor  p-i- 
pert  that  the  poet  Whittier  is  staying  this  wlr 
t*r  at  Cartload 's  Garden .  ITewb nrypor?      Thi 
mnst  amnsa  the  N*»bnryport   people    sine 
then  is  no  place  of  that  name  except  thr   -- r 
den  attached  to  Mr.  Cartland's  bcr.'e   and    l  i« 
rot  to  be  supposed  the.t  the  poet  spe mi.-    ruufh 
time  t^ere  at  this  wawn, 

Mr.  Whittier  is  with  his  friends,  Jrsepl- 
Gertrude   Whittier   Cartland,    the    Iatt«       a 
cousin.    The  house  is  one  of  rho  lar^r  satiate 
house*  bo  eemtaon    in    Salem,    ?»eTb»ir. 
and  Portsmouth,    very  attractive  froi 
amp'e  room,  simplicity,  and  ho«pit-J 
■tniftim.     It    fronts    the    south  —  ;- 
sirahio    thoij;    wherever,  as    in    oui 
the  want1:   of   the  -winter   linjrcr   longer  rtr  I 
are  more    i.Tiper"ti-?   than  those  of   ru: —    .. 
nnd  rn  easy- T^^k.  rcn  be  tflke.-     on  a  dr 
roent,  while  the  vie-*  is  of  open  3t-^  »* 
fui  trees,   and  pleasant  hemes,  and  th     -  I 
scar*  is  tir™*-!  and  uaobscured.  »na  the  surtse  - 
to  ail    their  8:l-ry.     The  farr-i!"   is  vyrv    dm. 
Ter.ial  in  teste*   in  c^*rart«-   and  re  li;  .  - 

in  c  doable  fro**  fca  Is  stsyirr -i-.   og    I. •>«    ' 


67 

Id    I  --.;-U,ind  ia  brother  of  the  friend,  "Jtf    A. 
ti  whom   the  touching  memorial    poeto 
■was  acH-essed  n~  Mr   TChittier : 

ur«  la  our  iatth.  aci  one  Iti  our  lootrtac 
To  mnfcn  :ne  world  wlthla  nor  r»a»-n 

Somewhat  t.le  better  for  our  llTtne. 
Anrt  irlsdrtT  for  our  l-nnian  (seei-n. 

—  I  <    Tftl  illnr  «f  miiiM  -n(5    -»btoe 

i         ill    i.-en»*rne-^  Into  rracf: 
'!  o  m*  fc»  t;.e  l*7t»i.  tea  t  r  .m  ole . 
ARrt  UgJM  ~lth  ibo-xjur  tar  nmlJi'3'.  I 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joseph   Ce.r'.'.h:  1   were   '■:■ 
fnr  aianr  years  as  admirable  teach»rv      Ztlr^ 

.irUar.^  has  a  serene  and  cbarmmp  , 
rich  b-oT-Ti    eres,  a  gentle  voice,  aad  ocr  words 

Is  ';- and  aptly  chosen.     8he  often   If  ads 

~>rsof  the  Friends,  and  al^vays  irnth 
xeptance,     J?V.e  has  compiled  a  b 
c^)>.«.ii.;:  .      ,    -^.sage  of  Srriptnre  and  a  q 
Won  from  Whittier  tor  every  day  in  the  year 
and  has  written  aeveral  valuable  articles   •    the 
of  educit^i-  and  lal  pi 

Mr.   "i  hittaer  ia   within  a  few  miles'  iii 
Amesbury  an  ■  hour  in  the  d?y    l>-    el  r' 
't'»«^-,      —   T>  lscrra'J-  >>elr>v(il  in  Lhat  t    wu 
■"  tuia-      Mirs  his  home, »rw  the 

to  rive  his  rar-i--  *«»eie-,  .• 
ons  j»nii  -.!.  ov'"» other  eiit^rpma*  ttkih  h», 
in  turn  baa  deeply  at  heart  -haw  be#  Muttnrz, 
Thus  iiis  year*  pass  on.  (nil  of  fytrwotlvf  uri/n 
mnr)  and  rev< r.  ~t  Invp  toOod,  his  IK*  !•*  r*iJ 
^•r^^ij*.  /  benediction  to  hum.".r»itT -*/8cfft*» 
-  -  -- 


^   To  Merit  TwiWw.    ... 

!>!»  *f?  mh  birthday,  wftt'cfc ocei'"»  JlW  «%JBW.' 

ujlver  Weurt'il:  llollnw,  In    ri'iU'ilte, 
▲  h  IJIO'.ifns,  «uen  Iim*  ilii-e;  '.<i»l— 
•..  WV  both  nf  hi  were  y<rfiH«or— 
jHov   fw    i  y  iitiimblliiu  oVrthr-  i'ast 
Is  Ale  !,..  ty'g  touthlcss  Iiungi'i  I 

Bo  rtfl y  v?3rs  t\»v?  fled,  they  mj\ 
i  v  "   t,»tk  lOUrtnklriK— 

*  lin  NalilteN  inllsy  w»y— 
'i       u.   e  no  i.i  I'm  lillli&llilt. 

.vhi'e  on  life's  uneven  mad 
'    Vmti'  tr;<*k  ynu've  brfii'ptlrsaHic, 
WiMt  fonntitlns  frimi  ynur  wit  ht»v» 
Wlni  orlnkn  you  Have  been  brewing! 

1  knew  whence  all  ynur  ma^lc  e.,;»rtt— 

Yi.ur  secreU'Vfl  iliecover  a— 
Tln>  *mrc-  tlinl  f«t  y.mr  1'iwnrd  flame— 

•  Tlir  dreiifns  that  romul  you  hnreredi 

fear.-"  •  y -.n  le.irncil  to  bite  nr  ntuneh 
'    HUH  b'lclcliiK  In  vmir  oridln, 
TJi..  M»i»es  mi!"'*.!  a  bowl  in'  (iodcU 

And  l!>  ho  !u-tz>-(1  the  l.idlo. 
r>'   :  ^  h»,  wh<ve  eftieih  year  to-dt)' 

V  nr  ripe  hull  MRtnry  nni'ided, 
yciiir  inwtks  tlie  preein.is  (traiishl  betray 


.-*«. 


Vlio  laiiKli! 


.tie  l»i 
112  N 


Ine  ooillimUiiUed. 


,ffn  relvii  i lie  sw«<»t,  the  shart»,  thettrooa, 
R>eli  li  nd*  li-«  faults  uin'*ndna, 

The  vlriin'3  that  in  each  belong 
In  bniipler  union  bteoSjed. 

jAnrt  what  the  iiynr  can  snrsan 

Ofl   t  tt,  Hiilrll.  leimiHfct 
.Co  while  <»'ie  heaiih  fills  etery  Jtlsst 

Mark  Twain  tor  BaiiyjL'leraenst 


(\nmi 


m 


'  I  lJlij 


HllVir 


US 


Meu  of  Note  at  the  Fraeral  of  the 
^AffCuBard.  ,  a  V- 


.  •  t 


4  '  i- 


• 


EOBERT  J.  I«uERSOLLfS  TRIBUTE 

«rj*r  Die    Coromon'esi    at   the>'Tt>iiit>  la 
He-'- '  -^—  T^rchlnfr    S<>eT»!*9  at 
j,     "he'LJttlo  Camden  Co  ufWw. ^  "~V  _ 
Mscy  KI.-»r»l  T»l  bntoa. 


""  alt  WM  rtes  In  his  tomb,  at   last, 

at Uarleigh  I  BmeteryiCornden.    Rr.:-^'.l 

jret  pictarea  le  ;he  Etrts  ^r.-lilce  van!4 
nestieswlthin  the  eastern  hillside,  a  apot 
of  undistr-rbi  '  natural  beanty  which  ap- 
pealed  to  ldj  own  heart,  and  there  in  one. 
ofitssik  t crypts, under  the  bright  suu- 
"hlnr  ■  alcrday  nflernoon,  the  child-like 
wnrnhipoi  f- ,;'xiro  and  1r-n-ortality  lr; 
j»«.  re  **  .  iftiu,  avay  It  iii.i  drefTile'ii 
»li 
*fe«rerday    morning    the   hnmbia    little 

-  :i  -••-   •--  '  I :  ■'  'e  •  *.: t  when  in  bo  rr.nny 

it  t.atr  nt  Fiiiio-iiig  were  passed,  be- 

CHIT-.-   ;\    --'nine.     Fnta   the    monicnt  the 

•'  o  ■  -.-         •  jied  to  the  throngfat  10  oV 

In  the        rnii  i-.  untli  sfter  1  In  the  after- 

-  Mtn -Ttn  of  the  de.  1  noet's 

nsde  theii    last 

ad    ta  :wcl!  upon 

*Jio  pine*;;  men  oi  the  mute  elnjrer,  ah-  -•  t 

--■    •■     ir    its'  scree   ?e    fro*n  )  ;r.s  T"«fn. 

jhos  ,      i«   simple  toi      ft  .iv. 

Jese  v<-  •   his  vigorous  but  f'-ance 

n  fa         -  with  hi:-  cv~     face 

^  -      ...        ■    -•■        ^    -        . -i    locks  on'  jrray 

.     .    ■  ivmnathetic  s^ays. 

-■-•'(■.'•I'    --r    •    "•.»-"'"'  "t^«Iftt»«  rot- 

w.       o  r*a*    He  i  nal  ho-vaee. 


MBTN  OK  rfOTB  Ilf  T1TE  TBIOBTO.  '    . 

imong  the  multitude  was  jostled 
rrveral  men  r.f  lllnstrlousnote,  so  plainly 
msnnercd  themselves  as  to  be  In  perfect 
accord  with  the  .atmosphere  of  common 
fellmvnhip  which  pervaded  that  tmnelaary 
of  the  denrl.  There  was  unpretentious 
John  Burroughs,  the  jireatlovw  -of  the 
bir  I  .  Whitman's  oiri  comrade,  and  at  his 
elliow  fonipnrtionnble  Moncure  D.  Con- 
wnv,  deep  uiinker,  whese  honor  It  was  to 
be  the.  first  author  to  greet  Whitman, 
having  salt-ted  him  as  Emerson's  ambaaaa- 
dorjnst  j/*",rthe  publication  of  "Leaves  of 
Gr-  .."  Conway  it  was,  too,  who  wrote 
in  the  Fortnightly  the  first  article  upon 
Whitman  to  apnear  abroad.  Also  were 
present  Dr.  Horace  Furnesa, Arthur  Stand- 
mnn.  in  lieu  of  his  father,  Edmund  Clar- 
enci>St»"Mlinan;  W.  81oan  Kennedy  and 
Hnr.ilin  'iarlm-.d,  of  Boston;  H.  H.  Oil* 
i  irjst,  the  artist,  who  painted  Whitman's 
portrait  five  ver.ra  a*ro;  Dr.  R.  W.  Bucks. 
of  London.  "hitman's  biographer,  and 
many  other  locally  well-known  represent* , 
stiver  ,,r  -e.icnec  and  letters. 

r,.lnnel  Georjre  W.  Whitman,  a 
brother,  bnd  eomo  on  with  his  wife  from 
uton,  and  Whitman's  Mends, 
Thomas  B.  Harned,  William  Ingram  and 
Horace  Traub^l,  were  there.  Thepail- 
Vsrer"  ^-ore:  John  Burroughs,  HTk. 
Gilchrist,  Arthnr  Ptedman,  W.  Boaar 
Kennedy,  iiemlin  Os-land,  8enator  A.  Q% 
Cattell,  Judge  C.  G.  (rarrison,  William 
lj;|tram  Taicott  Williams.  J.  H.  Johnston, 
of  -  >'ork;  J.  H  Clifford,  H.  S.  Morria, 
,•  :,  t>  r,Maii.  Thomas  Donaldson  ana 
pn  .  iCnkins  *hr  artist.  Colonel  Bobert' 
O.  Injre  oil  and  his  wife  arrived  abattly 
after  *ioon  ' 

A.  Bit-'.      sYJITATRT.  '■* 

"What  a  wonderful  sympathy  Whitman 
awakened,"  Monepre  Don  way   remarked. 

"lie  ; ■  rs     ■■'.  ■•)  himself  men    of   the' 

t ■■■  i»k>s  le  "  ■  'v  .      His    '.olerance  was- 

i      "--•'"  .  •■     *-.A 

the    parlor  hung  the 

portrait  ■•'.' fe.thor  and  mother. 

-as.  Hicks,  which  he> 

From  the  mantel*^ 

>.,t<  •,'•:■    .    of   MTalt    U'hitmarvj 

..■.)■'    ■      :>atheticalljr open. his* 

<n     .'•.    ...  •"••   oofHn       As  he. 

1   •■•  ••  ••! -(    •      •''    r/dcd.  clad' 


jr  •!•'.  familiar  gm*b  of  gray,  with  wide 
pbflat  and  eufJV  of  white,  he  looked  re«- 
•mittkaT  V  life-like  the  fecc  composed  in 
tbe  catm  of  deut;  - 

•"«e  or  tit*.  rtrf»itAt  tributes.         iS 

At  t!ic  litfad  of  '  e  casket  stood  an  ivy 
wreu.t!<  with  a  ciuft-tr  of  beautiful  Easter- 
lilies,  •'<•  tribute  «f  Professor  Geotfrey 
.'•  a;.'.v;.i!ir,  of  Camden.  Edmund  Clar. 
•.'.  &  tltnan  had  »ent  a  large  wreath  of 
Ivy,    with  a  tcnciiloct   poem    to    breathe  - 

:,.•■■  in-,  Old  V.tlt!  Poet  Thomas! 
Bai;ey  I'dricb  cnenbored  the  dead  bard- 
v,  to  ;vy  mid  viole.tw.  and  Edito*"  Ktatuirdj 
J  -■-■>n  iHldi'r  hk!  wife  Browned  ,:btC 
b  ):,tr  with  sple\did  laurels  mid  paling 
.•  .;i..<-r->u-t  other  tlor:tl  tributes  BttrTi  ",1.(4 
v.i.  ngJEf),  aroone;  rhctn  Bom*,  myrthk! 
p ,  |:<.,--!  by  Pulg>?r  jlnKiaiwjv  "ms  .  C: 
Whitman's  "boys'  of  «M,  from  .'the  ,;i^aw^1 
of  ^mcisi«jKalJ4]uJ»a<'rml!'ricSc*.Md. 

When  tho  lid  of  tho  coffin  wasi 
about  to  shut  tho  dear  liire  out  from 
his   siirht  forever,  Colo  no;  t?eorge  Whit-, 

ian  broke  down  nod  sobbing!  v  lean-i 
.1 :,.  oT#r  printed  three  reverent  kisses  upon 
the  gluts  above  the  diient  lips.  With  tears 
in  his  eyes  Walt  Whitman's  old  friend,, 
John  Burroughs,  bent  forward  and  preyed 
there  also  a  tV.ro well  kiS3. 

Over  the  >ljsty  pike  and  the  winding, 
brown  paths  of  the  cemetery,  twenty 
hack?  followed  tho  hearse  to  the  rngeed 
hillside  vault.  Ten  carloads  of  people  had 
preceded  it  there(  and  many  had  journeyed 
on  foot  Three  thousand  spectators  saw 
the  poet  f-.RitL.bed. 

>  !)os<  by  the  tomb  a  large  tent  had  been 
pitched,  and  under  its  White  roof  the  lost 
rites  were  snid,  the  addresses  being  inter- 1 
Spersed  with  spiritual  lessons  from  Con- 
fucius, Buddha,  the  Zend-Avesta  and  the 
Koran,  Plato,  Isaiah  and  Jesus.  The  cere- 
mony was  solemnly  inaugurated  by 
Francis  .Howard  Williams,  who  read 
Whitman's  fUL.llme  "Death  Carol,"  with 
its  under-rhythin'of  beanty  and  hope, 
oocMiioa  nuutiD')  TmrrwoNT. 

Lawyer  Thomas  B;  Hamed  bore  simple 
testimony  to  Whitman's  seventeen  years  i 
sojourn  in  Camden,  his  gentleness,  charitv, 
wisdom  and  -implieltv,  "He  cared  for 
the  companionship  of  the  common  peo- 
ple," he  said,  "Every  moment'  of  hb  life 
tallied  with  the  teaching  of  his  books. 
It  is  because  of  his  personal  request  to  me, 
that  1  speak  to-day  to  return  n is  thanks 
to  the  people,  especially  ot  Camden,  for 
their  many  acta  of  'kindness,  while  he  has 
been  one  of  its  humble  citizens.  Don't 
forgot,  be  said,  to  any;  Thanks,  thanks, 
thanks." 

Dr.  Backs,  remarkably u like  his  dead 
friend  in  appearance,  spoke  feelingly  of 
the  (treat  spirit  he  bad  come  to  recognize 
in  Whitman.  He  said  that  Whitman  still 
lived,  as  be  bad  suns: 

'•Tbe  beat  of  me  Own  wben  do  loiiasislsllilii, 

.  JortowaiestfeatlfcavebMB  biu— uy 

prn«  n  ug. " 

"We  thought  we  ware  to  lose  him  in 
midwinter,'  said  Dr.  ft. &  Brintou,  "but 
he  wee  snared  until  the  springing  of  the 
leaves  of  grass,  typical-  to- him  of -the  mys- 
terious soul  or  nature.  Undiseuadable, 
infinitely  loving,  he  preached  the  gospel 
of  man.  that  tho  individual  is  autocrat  of 
the  world-  -He  taught  robust  love  among 
men,  tender  sympathy  among,  women. 
•Know  thyself,'  said  the  Greek  sage:  'Deny 
thyself,'  said  Jesus;  "Be  thyself,'  said 
Whitman .  They  are  all  evolutions  of  the 
sbelief."  r 


nransotx's  Tommiiro  trusts. 
Colonel  lngersoll  WM  visibly  affected 
with  grief  for  his  long-time  friend  and  as 
he  proceeded  with  bis  address  spoke  with 
quivering  lips.  When  the  coffin  wee  after- 
wards being  ptaeed  in.  the  tomb  Ma  eyes 


68 

filled  with  tears.    "I  cannot  help  it,"  he 
said,  "although  I  feel  that,  like  an  escaped 

tirisoner,  he  has  quitted  life."    Ingersoll's 
nspiring  address  was  as  follows: 

Again,  we,  in  the  mystery  of  Life,  are 
brought  face  to  face  with  the  mystery  of 
Death.  A  great  man— a  great  American— 
the  most  eminent  citizen  of  this  Republic 
— is  dead  before  us.  And  we  have  met  to 
pay  a  tribute  to  his  greatness  and  to  his 
worth.  I  know  that  he  needs  no  words  of 
mine.  His  fame  is  secure.  He  laid  the 
foundations  of  it  deep  in  the  human  heart. 
Ho  was,  above  all  that  I  have  known,  the 
Poet  of  Humanity,' of  Sympathy.  Great 
he  was— so  great  that  he  rose 
above  the  greatest':  that  be  met 
without  arrogance,  and  so  great 
that  he  stooped  to  the  lowest  without  con- 
scious condescension.  He  never  claimed 
to  be  lower  or  greater  than  any  other  of 
the  eons  of  men.  He  came  into  our 
generation  a  free,,  un trammeled  spirit, 
with  sympathy  for  all.  His  arm  was 
beneath  the  form  of  the  sick,  he  sympa- 
thized with  the  imprisoned  and  despised, 
and  even  on  the  brow  of  crime  he  was 
great  enough  to, place  the  kiss  of  human 
sympathy.  One  of  the  ereatest  lines  in 
our  literature  is  his.  Speaking  of  an  out- 
cast—and the  line  is  great  enough  to  do 
honor  to  the  greatest  genius  that  has  ever 
lived— he  said: 

"Not  untu  the  iuo  axetuaet  you  will  I  exolods 
you."  , 

A  charity,  as  wide  as  the  sky.  And 
wherever  there  was  human  suffering,  hu- 
man misfortune,  the  sympathy  of  Whit-, 
man  bent  above  it  as  the  firmament  bends 
above  the  earth.. 

tjbx  ami  ajtskicaf  voion. 

He  was  built  on  a  broad  and  splendid 
plan— ample,  without  appearing  to  have 
limitations— passing  easily  for  a  brother  of 
mountain**  and  sew  and  const* llations — 
caring  nothing  for  the  little  maps  and 
charts  that  timid  pilots  hug  the  shore 
with,  and  giving  himself  freely,  with  the 
recklessness  of  genius,  to  winds  and  waves 
and  tides;  caring  for  nothing  as  long  as 
the  *  stars  were ,  above  nlm.  And 
he  walked  among  men.  among 
writers,  among  verbal  vamlshera  ana 
veneerers,  among  literary  milliners 
and  tailors  with  the  unconscious  dignity 
of  an  antique  god.  He  was  the  poet,  also, 
of  that  divine  democracy  that  gives  equal 
rights  to  all  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
men.  He  uttered  the  great  American 
voice,  uttered  a  song  worthy  of  the  great 
Republic.  No  man,  has  over  said  more  for 
tbe  rights  of  humanity — more  in  favor  of 
real  democracy  or  real  justice.  He  neither 
scorned  nor  cringed — was  neither  tyrant 
nor  slave.  He  asked  only  to  stand  be- 
neath the  great  flag  of  nature,  the  blue  and 
the  stars. 

THE   POST  Or  LIFE  AND  1X)VE. 

He  was  the  poet  of  life.  It  was  a  joy  to  him 
simply  to  breathe.  He  loved  the  clouds 
He  enjoyed  the  breath  of  morning,  tbe 
twilight,  the  wind,  the  winding  streams. 
He  loved  to  look  at  the  sea  when  the 
wind  and  waves  burst  into  the  whiter; 
caps  of  joy.  He  loved  the  fields,  tbe  bills; 
he  was  acquainted  with  trees,  with  birds, 
with  a; I  the  beautiful  objects  on  the  earth.'' 
He  not  only  saw  those  objects  but  under-!, 
stood  their  meaning,  and  he  used  thero> 
that  he  might  exhibit  h!s  heart  to  bis  felr' 
low  men. 

He  vvu.-,  also  the  poet  :>f  love.  He  was 
not  as hani'-d  of  that  divine  passion  that 
has  built  every  home  in  the  world,  that 
divine  passion  that  has  painted  evorvi 
picture  ami  d  ven  ua  every  real  great  wors£ 
of  art,. Uiet  divine  (Mission  that  has  made, 
the  world  wo.  th  living  in  and  gives  some 
value  to  hpmun  life 

rur.  i-orr  Or  tuk  hitmah  back.  , 

He   was    the    poet   of  the  natural    and 


taught  men  Jjot  to  be  ashamed  ot  tha#> 
which  ia  natural.    He  wot    not    only   the) 

pi...r  of. love,  not  only  tb«  .}**»■  ci  dersoo-, 
racv,  not  only  the  poet  of  the  creoi  Kepub* 
lie  "lie  was  tbe  :>oet  of  rhe  human  .race-, 
everywhere.  Tie  was  not  confined  to  Uie* 
1in<"    of  this  country,  but  hi*  syio''-,;.hy: 

|TS!frTO'7nrtWe!f  theequitl  ofall   kiiirp 

i  of  all  princei  end  :he  brother  of  all 

1  no  matter  how  high,  no  matter  haw   Idwl 

He    has  uti<  red  more  supreme  word* 

than  any  writer  of  oar  ,  «mqtunr,  andt 
i  possibly  of  almost  uuy  otter.  He  WMf 
]  above  all  things,  a  man*.-  -And  abovef 
\  genius,  above  all  the  snowcapped  peaks* 
|  of  intelligence,  e>nve  all  art,  rises  the  true 

man  greater  tiiun  ai  I .     lie  was  a  true  man; 

and  ho  walked  arana?«t  his  fellow  men  a*, 

such.  <v 

He  wns  also,  *s  has  been  said,  the  po«4 

,  of  death.  He  accented  all— life  and  death, 

pik!  he  justified  all.  He  had  the  courage 
;  to  meet  all,  and  was    groat  enongb  aad 

splendid  enough  to  harmonfee  all  and  to 
{accept  all  ihero  is  of  life  as  a,  divine 
I  melody.  -  ] 

).:s  rfiuxAontv  was  a  est 

You  know  better  than  I  What  his  life 
has   been,    lint    let   me  say   ore    thtnr.. 

I  Knowing,  a*  he  did,  what  others  can  know 

{and  what  they  cannot,  he  accepted,  and 
absorbed    all   theories,    all  creeds,  all  re- 

lligions,  and  believed  in  none.  Hie  phl- 
los.  iphy  won  a  sky  that  etnhraoed, all flioods  i 

land  accounted  fori.lt  clouds.  He  had  * 
philosophy  and  a  rcligiua  of  his  own, 
orouder.  as  he  believed— and  as  I  believe — 

:  than  others.  -  He  accepted  all,,  he  absorber} 
all,  and  he  wns  u'uove  ail.'  He  was  true, 
absolutely  to  himseif.    He  had  frankne**, 

jcourage,  and  be  w. is  as  Candidas  light.  Be 
was  willing  that  a!!  the  eons  of  men 
should  be  absolutely  acquainted    with  ha 

.heart  and  brair.  lie  had  nothing  to  eon-, 
ceal.  Frank,  candid,  pure,  serene,  noble. 
And  for  years  and  years  bo  was  tna4ign«d 
atid  slandered  simply  because  he  had  the 
candor  of  nature.  He  will  be  understood 
yet,  and  that  for  which  he  was  condemned 
— his  frankness,  bis  candor —  will  add  to 
the  glory  and  the  greatness  of  his  tame. 
He  wrote  a  liturgy  for  humanity,  be  wrote 
n  great  and  splendid  psalm  of  Hfc.  end  be 
gave  to  lib  the  gospel  of  humanity— the 
greatest  gospel  that  can  be  preached  the 
gospel  of  humanity. 

BANG  Or  THE   DOBK  AJO>  DAWS.    ,,      -    , 

He  was  not  afraid  to  lire,  nee  afraid  to 
speak  his  thought;  neither  was  ha  afraid 
to  die.  For  many  years  be  -and  Death 
lived  near  neighbors.  He  'was  •  always 
wiiihig  and  ready  to  meet  and  greet  thht 
thing  called  Death.  And  for  many  months 
be  sat  in  the  deepening  twilight  waiting 
for  the  night  'In  hut  brain  were  the 
blessed  memories  of  tbe  day;  and  in  hb 

,  heart  were  mingled  tbe  dawn  and  dusk  of 
life.  He  was  not  afraid,  but  cheerful  every, 
moment.  The  laughing  nymphs  of  day  did- 
not  desert  him.    Tbey  remained  that  day 

*  might  clasp  the  hand  of  the  veiled  and 
silent  Bisters  of  the  night  when  they 
should  come.  And  when  Ussy  did  oome, 
Walt  Whitman  stretched  his  hands  to  both 
—on  one  side  nyranbe  of  day,  on  the  other 
the  silent  sisters  oh  the  -night  And  so, 
hand  in  hand,  between  smiles   and   tsars. 

1  he  reached  his  journey's  end.  From  the 
frontier  of  life;  from  thd  western  wave- 
kissed  shore,  he  sent  ua  messages  ot 
content   and  hope,    and   those    messages 

;  seem  now  like  strains  of  music  blown 
by  the  mystic  Trumpeter,  from  Death's 
pale  realm.  - 

uis/eivs  woam  ihhostal.    .."  jf£ 
To-day  we  give  back,  to  Mother   Watsore, 
to  ber  clasp  and  kiss,  jmo  of  the  hravtst, 
sweetest  souls  that  ever   lived   in 

I  clay.    Charitable  as  tbe  Sir 


a*  nature,  negligent  of  all  except  to  do  and 
say  what  he  beloved  be  should  do  and 
should  say.  And  I,  to-day,  thank  hirm 
not  only  for  you  but  for  in/self,  for  all  the 
bruve  words  be  has  uttered.  1  thank  him 
to-day  for  all  the  great  and  splendid  word* 
be  bus  suid  in  favor  of  liberty;  in  favor  of 
n»au  and  woman,  in  favor  motherhood, 
in  favor  df  fathers,  in  favor  of  children/ 
and  I  thank  him  for  the  brave  words  h« 
has  said  on  the  subject  of  dmth.  Since  ho1 
has  lived  death  is  less  fearful  than  it  wa# 
before,  mid  thousand*  and  millions  wjl? 
walk  down  into  the  dark  valley  of  the 
shadow  holding  Walt  Whitman  by  the* 
hand.  Long  alter  we  are  dead,  the  bra v* 
words  ho  has  spoken  will  sound  ilketrum* 
pet«  to  the  dying.  •    —i 

And  so  I  lay  thia  poor  wreath  upon  this 
great  man's  tomb.  I  loved  him  living  and 
I  love  him  still. 


THE    EVENING   POST 


WALT  WfflTMAK. 


His  Death  on   Saturday  Erenlnjr—  His 
Life  and  His  Literary  Place. 


Walt  Whitman,  the  poet,  died  at  a  quarter 
before  seven  o'clock  last  Saturday  evening, 
at  bis  home  in  Camden,  N.  J.  He  began  to 
■ink  at  4:30  o'clock,  and  grew  gradually  weak- 
er until  the  end,  which  was  peaceful.  Mr. 
Whitman's  death  came  unexpectedly  at  last,  al- 
though he  bad  leen  very  low  for  several 
mc  nth '.  His  funeral  will  take  place  on  Wed- 
nesday at  two  o'clock. 


Walt,or  Walter,  Whitman  was  born  in  West  HllK 
long  Island;  on  the  31st  of  Mar,  1819,  and  was  edu- 
cated In  the  public  schools  of  Brooklyn  and  New 
York  city.  He  afterwards  learned  printing,  and 
worked  at  that  trade  in  summer,  teaching  in  winter. 
Later  on  he  acquired  a  good  deal  of  aUD  as  a  carpen- 
frr:  Far  brief  periods  of  his  career  he  edited  news- 
papers in  New  Orleans  and  on  Long  Island,  and  in 
1847-'48  he  made  long  pedestrian  tours  through  the 
United  States,  generally  following  the  courses  of 
the  great  Western  rivers.  He  also  made  pedestrian 
explorations  in  Canada.  His  '  Leaves  of  Grass  ' 
was  published  first  in  1865.  During  the  war  his 
brother  waa  wounded  on  the  battlefield,  and  he  has- 
tened to  visit  .him  In  camp,  becoming  a  volnnteer 
army  nurse,  in  which  capacity  he  served  for  three 
rears  in  Washington  and  in  Virginia.  His  ex- 
periences are  recorded  In  'Drum-Taps'  and  other 
poems.  Want  of  rest  and  nervous  (train  brought 
os  a  severe  illness  in  1804,  from  the  effects  of  which 
be  never  fully  recovered.  In  1870  he  published 
his  'Democratic  Vistas.'  From  1805  to 
1874  he  held  a  Government  clerkship  In 
Washington.  In  the  latter  rear  he  was  stricken  by 
paralysis  and  retired  to  Camden,  where  he  was 
gradually  recovering  when  the  sudden  death  of  his 
'mother  m  his  presence  caused  a  relapse,  and  he 
'Jus  remained  in  a  crippled  condition  ever  since,  al- 
though until  lately  his  general  health  was  fair. 
His  intellectual  powers  remained  unaffected.  In 
his  prime  Mr  Whitman  had  a*magnlflcent  physique, 
and  to  the  last  his  presence  waa  imposing,  his  white 
hair  giving  him  a  most  venerable  appearance  In  bis 
later  years.  At  times  he  felt  the  pinch  of  poverty, 
but  his  wants  were  few  and  simple,  and  he  had 
.  friends  who  were  always  ready  to  contribute  to  the 
'relief  of  his  necessities.  Among  his  published  works 
"mar b« mentioned  'Leaves  of  Grass,'  'Passage  to 
India,'  'After  AH,  Not  to  Create  Only,'  'Two 
Rivulets,'  ' Specimen  Days  and  Collect,'  'November 
.Boughs,' and   '  Sands  at  Seventy. ' 


69 

It  has  Jjeen  the  curious  experience  of  Walt  Whit- 
man to  find  his  Inspiration  almost  wholly  in  his  own 
country,  and  his  admirers  almost  wholly  In  another, 
the  rhythmic  apostle  of  democracy,  ho  has  had,  in 
the  word  of  one  of  his  stanch  admirers,  "  absolutely 
i  bo  popular  following  "  at  home;  and  the  gradual  ln- 
rreaser'of  his  circle  of  special  readers,  even  here,  has 
been  largely  recruited  from  the  class  he  least  ap- 
proves— those  who  desire  to  be  English,  even  In  their 
fads.  The  same  thing  was  true,  years  ago,  of 
"Joaquin  "  M  tiler:  but  whDe  be  has  gradually  faded 
from  view,  the  robuster  personality  of  Whitman 
has  held  its  own,  aided  greatly  by  his 
superb  and  now  blighted  physique,  by  the 
persistent  and  somewhat  exaggerated  panegyrics  on 
kts  services  as  an  army  nurse,  and  by  that  rise  In  pe- 
cuniary value  which  awaits  all  books  classed  by  the 
book-venders  as  "facetis"  or  "curlosa."  All 
this  constitutes  a  combination  quite  unique.  To 
many  the  mere  fact  of  foreign  admiration  Is  a  suffi- 
cient proof  of  the  greatness  of  an  American ;  they 
have  never  outgrown  that  pithy  proverb,  the  result 
of  the  ripe  experience  of  a-young  Philadelphia^  of 
twenty-one,  Uiat  "a  foreign  country  Is  •  kind 
■  arsitmiporaneoua  posterltri."  Bat  when  we  re- 
member that  the  scene  of  this  particular  fame  was 
England,  and  that  it  waa  divided  with  authors  now 
practically  forgotten — with  "  Artemus  Ward  "  and 
"Josh  Billings"  and  the  author  of  '■Sam  Slick  ' ; 
when  we  remember  how  readily  the  same 
recognition  is  still  given  la  TEngi»»y|  to 
any  American  who  misspells  or  makes 
fritters  of  English,  or  who  eaters  literature  as  Lady 
Morgan's  Irish  hero  entered  a  drawing-room,  by 
throwing  a  back  somersault  in  at  the  door;  the  judi- 
cious American  win  by  no  means  regard  this  expe- 
rience as  final.  It  must  be  remembered,  too,  that 
all  the  malodorous  portions  of  Whitman's  earlier 
poems  were  avowedly  omitted  from  the  first  Eng- 
lish edition  of  his  works;  he  was  expurgated  and  fu- 
migated in  a  way  that  might  have  excited  the  ut- 
most contempt  from  M.  Guy  de  Maupassant,  or  in- 
feed  from  himself  *%nd  so  the  first  presentation  of 
this  poet  to  his.  English  admirers  was,  as  it  were, 
clothed  and  In  his  right  mind.  Again,  it  is  to  be  re- 
membered that  much  of  the  vague  sentiment  of 
democracy  in  his  works,  while  wholly  picturesque 
cad  novel  to  an  Englishman — provided  he  can  tole- 
rate it  at  all — Is  to  us  comparatively  trite  and 
almost  conventional;  it  is  the  rhythmic  or  semi- 
rhythmic  reproduction  of  a  thousand  Fourth  of  July 
orations,  and  as  we  are  less  and  le* s  Inclined  to  hear 
this  oft-told  tale  In  plain  prose,  we  are  least  of  all 
tempted  to  read  it  in  what  is  not  even  plain  verse. 
There  is,  therefore,  nothing  remarkable  to  the  sort 
of  parallax  which  exhibits  the  light  of  Whitman's 
fame  at  so  different  an  angle  in  his  own  country  and 
in  England. 

But  while  an  English  fame  doea  not  of  Itself  prove 
an  American  to  be  great  else  were  we  all  suing  for 
Buffalo  Bin 's  social  favor  as  If  we  were  members  of  the' 
British  aristocracy — it  certainly  does  not  prove  that 
be  is  not  great;  and  it  is  for  us  to  view  Whitman  as 
onately  as  if  he  were  an  author  ail  our  own, 
Whittier  or  Parkman,  of   whom  an    English 

(tor  win  tell  you,  with  labored  politeness,  that  he 
la  vague  impression  of  having  heard  of  hftn. 
The  most  distinct  canonisation  ever  afforded  to  Whlt- 
man\on  our  own  shores  was  when  Mr.  Stedman 
placed  him  among  the  Dii  majorat  of  our  literature 
by  giving  him  a  separate  chapter  in  his  '  Poets  of 
America';  and  though  it  is  true  that  this  critic  had 
already  ch»ar>»ned  that  honor  by  extending  it  to 
Bayard  Taylor,  yet  this  was  obviously  explained  In 
part  by  personal  friendship  and  partly  by  the  wish 
not  to  give  Vew  England  too  plainly  the  lion's  share 
of  fame  Possibly  this  last  consideration  may  have 
had  Influence  in  the  case  of  Whitman  also;  but  it  is 
Impossible  not  to  see  in  this  chapter  a  slightly  de- 
fensive and  apologetio  tone,  such  as  appears  no- 
where else  In  the  book.  Mr.  Stedman's  own  sense 
of  form  is  so  strong,  his  instinct  of  taste  so  trust- 


worthy, and  his  love-poetry  in  particular  of  so  high 
and  refined  a  quality,  that  he  could  not  possibly  ap- 
proach Whitman  with  the  sort  of  predetermined 
rympathy  that  we  might  expect,  for  In  stance,  from 
EUa  Wheeler  Wilcox  or  AmeUe  Rives. 

There  seems  to  be  a  provision  in  nature  for  a  class 
of  poets  who  appear  at  long  Intervals,  and  who  reso- 
lutely confine  themselves  to  a  few  very  simple  stage 
properties,  and  substitute  mere  cadence  for  form. 
There  Is,  or  was,  an  Ossian  period,  when  simple  en- 
thusiasts cat  up  at  night  and  read  until  they  were 
sleepy  about  the  waving  of  the  long  grass  on  the 
blasted  heath,  and  the  passing  of  the  armed  warrior 
and  the  white-bosomed  maiden.  Ossian  Is  not 
much  read  now,  but  Napoleon  Bonaparte  admired 
him  and  Goethe  studied  him.  Neither  Is  Topper 
now  much  cultivated,  but  men  not  very  old  assure 
as  that  his  long,  rambling  lines  were  once  copied  by 
the  page  Into  extract-books,  and  that  he  was  wel- 
comed as  relieving  mankind  from  the  tiresome  re- 
straints of  verse.  It  would  be  a  great  mis- 
take, doubtless,  to  class  Whitman  with  Ossian  on 
the  one  side,  or  Tupper  on  the  other;  but  it  would  be 
a  stttl  greater  error  to  overlook  the  fact  that  the 
mere  revolt  agaiust  the  tyranny  of  form  has  been 
made  again  and  again,  before  him,  and  that  without' 
securing  Immortal  fame  to  the  author  of  the  experi- 
ment. 

It  is  no  uncommon  thing,  moreover,  for  the 
fiercest  innovating  poets  to  revert  to  the  ranks  of 
order  before  they  die;  as  Wordsworth  gradually  lie- 
came  conventional  and  Swinburne  decent  ^"hit- 
man hasabstalned.  through aU  Ills  later  publications, 
from  those  proclamations  of  utter  nudity  which 
Emerson  called  "priapism,"  in  connection  with 
"Leaves  of  Grass":  and  is  far  more  compressed 
cod  less  simply  enumerative  thqn  wiipri  h*  I  ■prn, 
■True  poetry  Is  not  merely  the  putting  of  thoughts 
Into  words,  but  Uio  putting  of  the  Best  thought*  into 
the  best  words;  ^  rivrs  cs,  bs  in  pointing,  th«  o  of 
Gio'N:  it  secui—  for  us  what  Rus!;in  calls  "  the 
perfection  and  precision  of  the  tostaaij 
taneous  line."  It  ,  fires  a  rifle-bullet  Instead 
9f  a  shower  of  bird  -**-  *-  tk  — ,w' 
the  texjf  best  nbraeo  out  of 
throwing  a  doeen'  epithets  to  see  if  out  may  < 
to  stick.  For  example,  Emerson  centres  his 
"Problem"  in  "a  cowled  churchman";  Browning 
singles  out  an  individual  bishop  or  rabbi,  as  the  case 
may  be;  but  Whitman  enumerates  "priests  on  the 
earth,  ornclea,  sacriflcers,  brahmins,  sabiana,  llamas, 
monks,  muftis,  exhorters. "  In  "The  Song  of  the 
Broad-Axe"  there  are  nineteen  successive  lines  be- 
ginning with  the  word  "Where";  In  "Saint  au 
Monde!"  eighteen  beginning  with  "I  see."  In  "I 
sing  the  body  electric"  he  specifies  in  detail  "Wrists 
and  wrist-joints,  hand,  palm,  knuckles,  thumb,  fore- 
finger, finger-joints,  finger-nails, "  with  thirteen 
more  Unes  of  just  such  mmutur.  In  the  same  poem 
he  explains  that  he  wishes  his  verses  to  be  regarded 
aa  "Man's,  woman's,  child's,  youth's,  wife's,  hus- 
band's, mother's,  father's,  young  man's,  young 
woman's  poems."  It  is  like  bringing  home  a  sackful 
of  pebbles  from  the  beach  and  asking  you  to  admire 
the  collected  heap  as  a  fine  sea  view.  But  It  Is  to  be 
noticed  that  these  follies  «tiwiiT»i«h  in  bis  later  works; 
the  Unes  grow  shorter;  and  though  he  doea  not 
acquiesce  in  rhyme,  he  occasionally  .  accepts  a 
rhythm  so  well  defined  that  It  may  be  called  conven- 
tional, as  in  the  fine  verses  entitled  "Darest  thou 
now,  O  Soul!"  And  it  is  a  fact  which  absolutely 
overthrows  the  whole  theory  of  poetic  structure  or 
structureleesness  Implied  in  Whitman's  volumes, 
that  his  warmest  admirers  usually  place  first  among 
bis  works  the  poem  on  Lincoln's  death,  "My  Cap- 
tain," which  comes  so  near  to  recognized  poetic 
methods  that  it  actually  falls  into  rhyme. 

Whitman  can  never  be  classed,  like  the  German 
Schleiermacher,  among  "  God-intoxicated  "  men; 
but  he  was  early  Intoxicated  with  two  potent 
draughts — himself  and  his  country: 

One's  self  I  sine,  a  simple  separate  perma 

Yvt  utter  the  word  Democratic. the  word  En  Masse. 


With  these  words  his  collected  poems  open,  sad  to 
these  he  has  always  been  tme.  They  have  brought 
with  them  a  certain  access  of  power,  and  they  ha  *» 
also  implied  weakness;  on  the  personal  side  leading 
to  pruriency  and  on  the  rational  side  to  rant.  For 
some  reason  or  other  our  sexual  nature  Is  so  ordain- 
ed that  it  Is  i«ry  hard  for  •  person  to  dwell  ranch 
upon  it,  even  for  noble  and  generous  pur  posts,  with- 
out  developing  a  tendency  to  morbidness;  the  lives 

2phDanthrppists  and  reformers  have  sometimes 
own  tab,  and  when  one  insists  on  it  for  purposes 
of  self-gloriflcailon,  the  danger  is  greater.  Whitman 
has  not  escaped  the  danger;  it  is  something  that  he 
has  outgrown  it;  and  it  is  possible  that  if  let  entire- 
ly alone,  which  could  hardly  be  expected,  he  might 
ere  now  have"  dropped  "  Children  of  Adam  -^  sad 
some  of  the  more  nauseous  passages  in  other  effu- 
sions from  his  published  works.  One  thing  which 
baa  always  accentuated  the  seeming,  grossness-  of 
the  sensual  side  of  his  works  has  been  the  entire 
absence  of  that  personal  and  ideal  side  of  passion 
which  can  alone  derate  sad  dignify  it  Probably 
bo  poet  of  equal  pretensions  was  ever  so  entirely 
wanting  in  the  sentiment  of  individual  love;  he  not 
only  has  given  us  no  tore-poem,  in  the  ordinary 
use  of  that  term,  but  tt  Is  as  difficult  to  conceive  of 
his  writing  one  as  of  his  chanting  a  serenade  be- 
neath the  window  of  his  mistress.  His  love  Is  the 
blunt,  undisguised  attraction  of  sex  to  sex,  the 
physical  appetite  that  Fielding  attributes  to  Tom 
Jones  for  the  requisite  quantity  of  white  flesh;  and 
whether  this  flesh  belongs  to  a  goddess  or  a  street- 
walker, a  Queensberry  or  a  handmaid,  Is  to  him  ab- 
solutely unimportant.  This  not  only  separates  him 
from  the  poets  of  thoroughly  ideal  emotion,  like  Foe, 
but  from  those,  like  BossetU,  whose  passion,  though 
it  may  Incarnate  itself  in  the  body,  is  Inseparable 
from  the  very  profoundest  and  most  subtle  yearn- 
ngs  of  the  spirit 

In  preaching  this  gospel  of*  unbounded  self-indul- 
gence— or,  as  bis  admirers  would  prefer  to  call  it, 
self-expression — he  has  constantly  made  his  own 
personality , and  especially  his  own  fine  physical  man- 
hood, a  factor.  It  is  therefore  fair  to  introduce  this 
factor  into  criticism,  in  *  way  that  would  be  wholly 
unfair  if  we  were  dealing  with  an  objective  poet  like 
Browning.  Thus,  in  his  poem  of  "Native  Mo- 
ments," Whitman  says: 

Fame  moment* — when  70s,  eosae  upon  nra— sh^you 
•rs  hers  now. 

Give  me  now  libidinous  joys  only. 

Give  me  the  drench  of  my  passions,  give  me  ilf* 
coarse  and  rank. 

To-day  I  go  consort  with  Harare's  darlings,  to- 
night too. 

I  am  for  those  who  balievs  1n  Irons  delight*,  I 
share  the  midnight  orgies  of  young  men. 

Much  more  baa  Whitman  written  to  the  same  pur- 
pose, and  with  a  bad  influence— we  speak  from  per- 
sonal observation — on  the  Bras  of  many  young 
men ;  an  influence  that  .  can  scarcely  be 
estimated.  This  passage  is  probably  not  among 
those  extracts;  from  Whitman  which  are  now  read 
for  charitable  purposes  at  Congregational  rooms  or 
in  the  parlors  of  Episcopal  churches;  but  it  repre- 
sents what  the  poet  would  once  have  recognized  as 
the  vital  principle  of  his  muse.  And  be  constantly 
represents  himself  as  the  living  example  of  what  he 
sings: 

I  now  rhhty-esven  rears  old  to  perfect  hearth,  begin. 
Bopuu  nut  to  eesa*  tUl  ceata. 

This  is  his  theory,  tills  his  Invited  test  Ko  matter, 
for  the  present  what  the  moralist  would  say  of  the 
theory;  what  this  physiologist  would  say  of  It  Is  that 
a  man  who  undertakes  to  act  upon  it  will  end  in 
bankruptcy,  will  not  live  out  his  life:  that  those  who 
thus  claim  to  be  Nature's  darlings  end  as  Nature's 
warnings;  that  paralysis,  insanity,  premature  old 
age  are  the  retribution  for  "the  drench  of  the  pas- 
sions "  fat  youth  Was  there  ever  •  a  sadder  per- 
sonal commentary  on  all  this  .  than  when  we. 
And  this  same  poet  who  at  thirty -seven  'exulted  in 
his  manly  strength,  adniasslug  schooi-childrtav  at 
fifty-five  from  the  point  of  view  of  axlieme  age 


70 

("An  Old  Man's  Thoughts  of  "School  ");  and 
having  constant  appeals  made  for  him,  when  hardly 
past  the  prime  of  life,  ss  for  one  broken  down  by 
years  and  mflrmlties.  Compare  this  premature 
senility  of  the  poet  of  "life  coarse  and  rank," 
with  the  old  age  of  the  chaster  poets — with  Bryant's 
eighty-four  clean  and  .wholesome  years,  with 
Whittier's,  almost  a  life  long  invalid  and  yet  busy  and 
useful  when  eighty-four  years  are  told.  It  is  the 
easy  device  of  admirers  to  attribute  this  want  of 
physical  staying  power  to  Whitman's  army  ser- 
vices, but  the  land  is  full  of  men  who  encountered 
during  the  civil  war,  and  without  boasting,  an  or- 
deal of  bodily  exposures  to  which  those  of  Whit- 
man were  as  nothing,  in  that  comparatively  shel- 
tered position  which  he  chose  for  himself;  and  who 
are  still  m  health  and  rigor.  We  have  no  wish  to 
dwell  on  the  bodily  calamities  of  any;  one,  but  where 
a  man  deliberately  invites  the  personal  test,  and 
where  the  application  of  that  test  points  a  moral  for 
coming  generations.  It  would  be  cowardly  to  shrink 
from  its  recognition. 

""  On  purerTpoeOe  grounds  R  must  be  said  of  Whit-' 
man  that  he  has  in  a  high  degree  that  measure  of 
the  ideal  faculty  which  Emerson  conceded  to 
Margaret  Fuller;  he  has  "  lyric  glimpses."  Barely 
constructing  anything,  be  is  yet  gifted  in  phrases, 
in  single  cadences,  in  single  wayward  strains  as 
from  an  JEolion  harp.  It  constantly  happens  that 
the  titles  or  catch-words  of  his  poems  are  better 
than  the  poems  themselves;  as  we  sometimes  hear 
It  said  in  praise  of  a  clergyman  that  he  has  beautiful 
texts.  "  Proud  Music  of  the  Storm,"  "  When. 
lilies  last  in  door-yard  bloomed."  and  others,  will 
readily  occur;  and  .  if .  they  were  sometimes 
borrowed  or  duplicated,  as  "  The  Sobbing 
of  the  Bells"  from  Foe,  It  Is  no  mat- 
ter. Often,  on  the  other  hand,  they 
are  Inflated,  as  "  Chanting  the  Square  Deifle,"  or 
affected  and  feeble,  as  "Eidolons:"  One  of  the 
most  curiously  un-American  traits  la  *  poet  profess- 
edly so  national  is  his  curious  way  of  interlarding 
foreign,  and  especially  French  phrases,  to  a  degree 
that  recalls  the  fashionable  novels  of  the  last  genera- 
tion, and  gives  ah  incongruous  effect  comparable  only 
to  Theodore  Parker's  description  of  aa  African  chief 
seen  by  some  one  at  Sierra  Leone—"  With  the  ex- 
ception of  a  dress-coat  bis  Majesty-was  as  naked  as 
a  pestle."  In  the  opening  lines,  already  quoted 
from  his  collected  volume  (ed.  1881),  Whitman  de- 
fines "the  word  Democratic,  the  word  En-Masse"; 
and  everywhere  French  phrases  present  them- 
selves. The  vast  sublimity  of  night  on  the  prairies 
only  suggests  to  him  "how  plenteous!  how  spiritual: 
how  resume,"  whatever  that  may  mean;  be  talks 
of  "  Milangt  mine  own,' the  seen' and-  the  unseen  "; 
writes  poems  "  with  reference  to  ewsembie  ";  says 
"  the  future  of  the  States  I  hartringe  glad  and  sub- 
lime," and  elsewhere,  "I  blow  through  my  rmbou- 
ekwrri  my  loudest  and  gayest  for  them."  ,  Ee  is 
"the  extolled  of  amies,"  meaning  apparently  mis- 
tresses ;  and  says  that  neither  youth  pertains  to 
hint  "  nor  deit  cores**.'"  Phrases  like  these  might  be 
multiplied  Indefinitely,  and  when  he  says,  "  No  dainty 
dolce  afettuoto  I,"  he  seems  vainry  to  disclaim 
being  exactlv  what  ha  bl  He  cannot  even  intro- 
duce himself  to  the  audience  without  borrowing  a 
foreign  word— '"I,  Watt  Whitman,  one  of  the 
roughs,  a  kosmos"— and  really  stands  in  this  re- 
spect on  a  plane  no  higher  than  that  of  those  young 
girls  at  boarding-school  who  commit  French  phrases 
to  memory  in  order  to  use  them  in  conversation  and 
give  a  fancied  tone  of  good  society.  ' 

But  after  au,  the  offence,  which  is  *  trivial  affecta- 
tion in  a  young  girl,  has  a  deeper  foundation  mamon 
who  begins  bis  literary  career  at  thirty -seven.  The 
essential .  fault  of  Whitman  s  poetry  was  well 
jxiinted  out  by  a  man  of  more  heroic  nature  and 
higher  genius,  Lanier,  who  defined  him  as  a  dandy. 
Of  aU  our  poets,  be  Is  really  the  least  simple,  the 
most  meretricious;  and  this  is  the  reason  why  the 
honest  consciousness  of  the  classes  whom  he  most 


celebrates,  the  drover,  the  teamster,  the  soldier, 

has  never  been  reached  by  his  songs.  He  talks  of 
labor  aa  one  who  has  never  really  labored:  his 
'Drum-Taps'  proceed  from  one  who  baa  never  per- 
sonally responded  to  the  top  of  the  drum.  This  Is  his 
fatal  and  insurmountable  defect;  and  It  at  because 
his  own  countrymen  instinctively  recognise  this,  and 
foreigners  do  not  that  his  foBowlng  is  mn'nly 
abroad,  not  at  home.  But  tt  is  also  true  that  be 
has,  in  a  fragmentary  and  disappointing  way,  somo 
of  the  high  ingredients  of  •  post's  nature:  a  keen 
eye,  a  ready  sympathy,  ft  strong  touch,  a  vivid  but 
not  shaping  imagination.  la  his  cyclopaedia  cf  epi- 
thets, in  his  accumulated  directory  of  details,  in  his 
sandy  wastes  of  Iteration,  there  are  many  srnttered 
particles  of  gold;  never  sifted  out  by  him,  never 
abundant  enough  to  pay  for  the  sifting,  yet  unmis- 
takable gold.  He  has  something  of  t>p  turbid 
wealth,  the  self-conscious  and  mouthing  amplitude 
of  Victor  Hugo,  and  much  of  his  brood,  vnguf ,  in- 
dolent desire  for  the  welfare  of  the  whole  human 
race;  but  he  has  none  of  Hugo's,  structural  power, 
bis  dramatic  or  melodramatic  instinct  and  his  oc- 
casionally terse  and  brilliant  condensation.  It  is 
not  likely  that  he  will  ever  have  that  place  !n  the 
future  which  is  claimed  for  him  by  his  Y  -?!lsh  ul- 
mjrers  or  even  by  the  more  cautious  endorsement  of 
Mr.  Stedmon,  for,  setting  aside  all  other  grounds  of 
criticism,  he  has  phrase,  but  not  form,  and  without 
form,  there  is  no  Immortality. 


L01CD05,  March  28.— Referring  to  th«  lato 
Walt  Whitman,  the  Standard  says:  "  If 
obliged  to  Judge  Whitman  by  conventional 
standards,  it  might  be  necessary  to  declare  tbat 
be  failed  as  a  poet.  If  instead  we  look  at  the 
residuum  of  pure  gold  his  works  contain,  it  is 
impossible  to  deny  him  the  honor'  due  a  great 
and  original  genius. ' ' 

The  Times  says  that  whatever  defects  bis 
poems  may  reveal,  they  at  least  testify  that 
Whitman  was  a  man  of  power  and  f«<hlitw  ef- 
resource,  and  that  bis  work  is  boUMfl  f»C*rr 
else  considerable  •effect  upon  (he  fufw*%  Ot 
American  literature.  • 

The  Pall  Mall  Gazette  call*  Walt  Whitman 
the  "  Poet  of  Democracy,"  adding  t  >'r|  «a 
fitting  tribute  to  turn  from  Aaasrica*  bdhti  ■- 
dans'  treatment  of  the  trumpery  jtatttbsle  of 
years  regarding  the  catching  af  aejjg  fj>  Asa 
better  expression  of  the  genius  esVtJs*  Vajt«d 
States  by  the  author  of  "Leaves  of  Grass"  and 
"  Democratic Vistas. " 

WALT  WHITMAN,  the  one  hun- 
dredth anniversary  of  whose 
birth  comes  on  tha  last  day  of 
May  in  the  present  year,  ia  almost  the 
sole  American  man  of  letters  belonging 
to  his  period  whose  reputation  has 
steadily  widened  throughout  the  whole 
generation .  born  and  grown  to  maturity 
since  the  close  of  his  ereatire  activity. 
Whitman's  life  falls  naturally  enough 
into  four  periods— that  of  bis  appren- 
ticeship, that  of  his  journeymanship, 
that  of  his  productive  activity,  that  of 
his  old  sge.  He  was  an  apprentice  to 
life  and  letters  from  earliest  boyhood 
up  to  the  first  publication  of  "Leaves  of 
Grass,"  In  1865.  He  was  Journeyman, 
iu  two  senses,  at  intervals  almost  all  bis 
life,  though  bis  wide  and  free  wander- 
ings covered  part  of  the  later  period  be- 
fore the  first  edition  of  "Leaves  of 
Grass"    appeared    and   the  time  there- 


co 

H 

W 

O 

< 

S 

CO 

w 

Oh 
CO 

s 

53 


after  to  the  close  of  the  civil  war  and  up 
to  his  disabling  stroke  of  paralysis  in 
the  early  seventies  of  the  last  century. 

His  productive  period  overlapped  both 
his  apprenticeship  and  his  life  as  jour- 
neyman, but  was  mainly  concentrated  in 
the  time  between  1850  and  1882,  at 
which  latter  date  he  issued  the  com- 
plete edition  of  ""Leaves  of  Grass."  Dur- 
ing this  period  he  wrote  also  much  of 
the  best  prose  contained  in  the  'volume 
originally  called  "Specimen  Days  and 
Collect" 

His  old  age  may  be  called  the  last 
10  years  between  .the  publication  of  the 
complete  "Leaves  of  Grass"  and  his 
death  at  Camden;  N,  J.,  in  1892. 

Whitman's  residences  were  Long 
Island  and  Manhattan  Island,  the 
United  States  and  Canada  at  large  nnd 
Camden.  He  had  something  like  25 
years'  residence  on  Long  Island,  with 
almost  daily  excursions  to  Manhattan 
and    periodic    returns    to    both,     and 

something  like  10  years  of  roving  in 
many  parts  of  the  United  States  and 
Canada,  with  ahortcr  or  longer  excur- 
sions In  after  life,  and  about  19  years 
of  residence  at  Camden,  interrupted  by 
these  longer  or  shorter  flights  to  New 
England,  the  West  and  Canada.  He 
never  visited  Europe. 

Shortly  before  Whitman  became  a 
resident  of  Camden,  hi  began  his  curious 
relations  with  Anne  Gilchrist  She,  an 
English  woman,  a  year  his  junior,  wrote 
to  him  in  May,  1869.  saying  that  in 
"Leaves  of  Grass"  she  had  found  no 
book,  bnt  a  man,  and  asking  a  letter. 
Whitman  answered  somewhat  coldly 
that  his  book  was  his  truest  letter.  She 
came  to  Philadelphia  and  Whitman  for 
a  while  saw  her  often,  but  declined  her 
offer  to  marry  him.  His  excuse  was  an 
affection  for  a  woman  in  the  South 
whom  he  could  not  marry,  because  she 
already  had  a  husband.  Whitman  wrote 
of  Mrs.  Gilchrist  after  her  death,  speak- 
ing of  her  as  "My  science-friend,  my 
noblest  woman  friend,  now  buried  in  an 
English  grave."  The  correspondence  be- 
tween Whitman  and  Mrs.  Gilchrist  has 
recently  been  published.  Perhaps  the 
experiment  of  marrying  Whitman  might 
have  been  a  perilous  one  at  any  time ; 
certainly  It  would  have  been  when  he 
was  past  50,  and  on  tbe  edge  of  a  per- 
manent invalidism  and  premature  physi- 
cal old  age. 

While  Whitman  "was  a  neighbor 
across  the  Delaware,  intellectual  Phila- 
delphia annexed  Camden.  Whitman 
came  to  the  trans-Delaware  suburb  a 
physically  broken  man  in  1873,  still  an 
object  of  criticism  and  of  more  than 
suspicion  to  most  persons  because  of 
his  "Leaves  of  Grass,"  and  there  he 
lived,  for  the  most  part,  until  his  death. 
In  1892,  during  which  period  he  largely 
recovered  his  health  and  grew  into  a  fig- 
ure venerated  and  beloved. 

It  was.  in  the  early  years  of  Whit- 
man's residence  in  Camden  that  two 
very y  young  men  had  the  presumption 
to  call  on  him,  at  his  simple,  little, 
wooden  house  in  a  quiet  street.  They 
found  him  seated  in  his  shirt -sleeves  near 
the    front    window,    through   which    the 


71 

sunshine  fell  upon  his  figure,  that  to  the 
young  visitors'  eyes,  of  a  venerable  old 
man,  though  Whitman  was  then  only  in 
his  middle  '50's.  His  bead  was  gray, 
but  his  eyes  were  clear  and  his  com- 
plexion was  good.  As  ever,  his  plain 
garments  were  scrupulously  neat  and 
clean. 

The  poet  sat  amid  a  confused  pile  of 
his  own  books, .  in  copies  of  which  he 
was  pasting  a  photograph  of  himself. 
The  visitors  understood  that  these  copies 
were  to  be  sent  as  compliments  to 
friends  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic, 
some  -f  them,  doubtless,  the  men  who 
had  contributed  to  a  fund  raised  in  aid 
of  Whitman  after  he  had  been  stricken 
with  paralysis.  Tennyson  was,  possibly, 
one  of  the  intended  recipients.  The 
names  of  some  to  whom  the  books  were 
to  go  brought  on  a  mild  literary  dis- 
cussion, and  one  of  the  young  visitors 
was  rash  enough  to  speak  of  Thackeray 
as  "wholesome,"  to  which  Whitman  re- 
plied, peering  over  his  spectacles  at  the 
visitor,  and  speaking  almost  sharply : 
'-'You  call  him  wholesome?"  Naturally, 
the  offender  had  no  answer  to  this  query. 
It  would  have  been  better  for  him  had 
he  held  his  peace  thereafter,  but  he 
was  fatuous  enough  to  ask  Whitman 
whether  some  literary  celebrity  from 
abroad,  recently  in  Philadelphia,  had 
visited  the  poet,  to  which  tbe  answer 
was  a  protest  that  he  bad  no  distin- 
guished visitors.  Perhaps  there  was  a 
touch  of  querulousness  in  the  poet's  an- 
swer to  his  tactless  young  visitor :  there 
was  certainly  a  trace  of  discontent  in 
the  tone  with  which  Whitman  spoke 
some  years  later,  of  his  exclusion  from 
the  magazines.  By  that  time  he  had  be- 
come a  sort  of  institution,  a  suburban 
Philadelphia^,  honored  with  veneration 
in  the  literary  circles  of  the  city,  though 
still  rejected  by  the  scrupulous.  r^e 
was  for  some  years  a  not  unfamiliar 
figure  on  the  streets,  and  he  wrote 
charmingly  of  Chestnut  street  as  a  great 
and  distinctive  thoroughfare. 

Whitman  of  the  years  between  his 
partial  recovery  from  the  effects  of  his 
stroke  and  the  oncoming  of  genuine  old 
age,  say  from  1876  or  1877  to  1888  or 
1889,  was  a  delightful  person  to  en- 
counter upon  the  street.  His  tall,  rather 
full  figure,  his  serene,  large-featured 
face,  framed  in  its  abundant,  fine  white 
beard ;  his  deliberate  pace,  interrupted 
frequently  that  he  might  look  at  the 
crowd  or  gaze  in  at  shop  windows,  made 
him  an  object  of  curiosity  to  strangers, 
of  kindly  interest  to  those  who  recog- 
nized him.  He  looked  as  if  he  were 
somebody,  as  any  but  the  dullest  or 
least  observant  must  have  felt.  Many 
saluted  him.  Now  and  then  a  young 
admirer  joined  him  for  half  a  block.  He 
had  an  effective,  but  not  unkindly,  way 
of  disembarrassing  himself  of  those  who 
Interfered  with  his  quiet  enjoyment  of 
the  scene.  It  was  a  beautiful  old  age, 
mellower  and  mellower  as  the  end  ap- 
proached, as  one  could  read  in  the  face 
of  the  poet  and  in  the  few  things  he 
wrote,  in  prose  or  verse.  He  acknowl- 
edged without  shame  the  material  aid  he 
received  from  friends  and  admirerss 
properly  believing  that  be  had  given  the 
world  far  more  than  an  equivalent  for 
the    moderate    necessities    and   comforts 


that  he  accepted.  When  death  came, 
March  27,  1892,  he  was  honored  not 
only  by  the  little  group  of  admirers 
who  had  not  too  judiciously  made  a  cult 
..f  the  man  and  his  work,  but  by  thou- 
sands of  others  on  both  sides  of  the  At- 
lantic, though,  even  as  he  lay  dead  and 
unburied,  the  note  of  criticism  in  some 
•luarters  was  almost"  brutally  cruel.  He 
was  laid  in  Harleigh  Ometery,  near 
Camden,  where  the  simple,  but  fitting, 
tomb  was  of  his  own  designing. 

Although  Whitman  was  iuteusely 
democratic  in  bis  attitude  toward'  life, 
and  sympathetic  with  the  mass  of  his 
lellow- Americans,  rural  and' urban,  be 
did  not  come  of  the  same  stock  from 
which  the  crowded  masses  of  many 
American  cities  are  now  in  large  meas- 
ure sprung.  Upon  this  side  of  the 
Atlantic,  at  least,  his  forebears  back 
lo  early  Colonial  times,  though  hard- 
working folk,  seem  never  to  have 
known  poverty,  to  have  had  essentially 
what  we  should  call  today  a  common 
>ohool  education,  to  have  been  recog- 
nized among  their  neighbors  as  per- 
sons of  substance  and  consideration. 

Whitman  himself  seems  to  have  felt 
that  he  drew  much  that  was  best  in 
him  from  the  mother's  side  of  the 
Jamil v,  the  Van  Velsors,  prosperous 
farmers  of  Long  Island,  descended  from 
early  Dutch  immigrants.  The  Van 
Velsor  farm  lay  on  the-  edge  of  Queen's 
county,  about  a  mile  from  a  little  har- 
bor on  Long  Tsland  Sonnd,  while  the 
AVhitmans  lived  on  a  farm  of  500  acre* 
•ti  West  Hills,  somewhat  less  than 
three  miles  away,  and  e  little  east  of 
Huntington,  perhaps  30  miles  from"  New 
York  city.  These  Long  Island  Whit- 
mans were  of  a  family  transplanted 
from  New  England.  Join;  Whitman, 
born  in  England  in  1602  and  his  broth- 
er, the  Rev.  Zechariah  Whitman,  a 
Puritan  minister,  came  to  New  Eng- 
land in  1640.  John  settled  :it  Wey- 
mouth, Mas«..  but  Z'-hnriah  was  soon 
after  living  it  Milford.  Connecticut. 
John  and  his  eldest  s'on  returned  perma- 
nently to  England,  but  ZeehariaVs  son 
Joseph  removed  about  10»>4  to  Hunting- 
ton, L.  I.,  and  from  him  "Walt  Whit- 
man  wa«  descended. 

Whitman  felt  that  he  owed  much  to 
JiTs  mother's  Quaker  upbringing.  Her 
mother  was  Amy  Williams,  by  birth  of 
English  stock,  the  child  of  a  sailor  lost 
at  sea.  The  Van  Velsors  were  breeders 
und  trainers  of  blooded  stock,  and 
Louisa  Van  Velsor.  Whitman's  mother 
was  a  d-'rinu  u:<d  skillful  horse-woman. 
Whitman'?  uruudfather.  Van  Velsor, 
known  as  "th<-  Major,"  was  a  jovial  and 
red-stout  old  man  of  striking  counte- 
nance. His  grandmother  Whitman, 
whose  maiden  name  had  been  Brush, 
a  corruption  of  Bruce,  was  a  woman 
of  strong,  noble  character  and  great 
natural  refinement.  She  had  been  a 
schoolmistress  in  youth. 

As  a  boy  Whitman  wandered  much 
afield  and  along  the  shores  of  Long 
Island  Sonnd  and  the  Atlantic.  He 
caught  fish  through  the  ice  of  Great 
South    Bay    and    sailed    Long    Island 


Sound  in  small,  boots.  He  knew  also 
the  pilot*  of  New  York  Harbor  and 
mad*  many  a  abort  voyage  with  them 
down  the  bay. 

At  12  or  13  Whitman  became  office 
b6v  in  a  law  office  in  Brooklyn  and 
Edmund  Clarke,  a  -member  of  the  firm, 
helped  him  to  learn  to  express  himself 
in  writing,  and  gave  him  "n  annunl 
subscription    to    a    circulating    library. 

Soon  after  this  time  Whitman  begon 
to  learn  printing  in  the  office  of  The 
Lcng  Island  Patriot,  a  weekly  news- 
paper published  in  Brooklyn.  At  15 
or  10  he  was  full  man  aizc.  It  was 
about  this  time  that  the  family  re- 
turned to  the  country  and  the  boy  went 
with  the  rest  of  the  brood,  eight  chil- 
dren in  all.  By  this  time  he  had  be- 
longed to  several  debating  societies  and 
had  seen  something  of  the  theatre  in 
New  York.  In  1830-7  he  worked  ut 
"the  case"  in  several  printing  offices 
of  New  York  city,  and  a  little  later, 
when  just  past  18,  he  taught  country 
schools  in  Suffolk  and  Queens  counties. 
Long  Island,  "boarding  round."  He 
found  this  life,  which  showed  him  the 
inside  of  many  simple  American  homes, 
nn  important  part  of  his  education  in 
democracy. 

At  about  20  Whitman  began  publish- 
ing a  weekly  newspaper  in  his  native 
region  of  Huntington,  but  he  soon  re- 
turned to  New  York  and  worked  there 
and  in  Brooklyn  as  printer,  and  as 
writer  of  prose  and  verse.  For  the  next 
few  years  he  took  joy  in  the  ferries  be- 
tween New  York  and  Brooklyn,  and 
rode  much  on  the  Broadway  stages,  com- 
ing to  know  and  enjoy  their  drivers,  and 
sometimes,  it  is  said,  to  take  the  place 
of  one  or  another  on  his  route,  when  the 
driver  needed  a  holiday. 

At  20  and  30  he  was  editing  the 
Brooklyn  Eagle,  and  then  he  resumed 
his  journeyman  Jffe,  that  which  had  be- 
gun in  boyhood  with  his  wanderinga  over 
Long  Island  afoot,  and  in  whatever  ve- 
hicle of  sea  or  shore  offered  itself.  This 
time  he  and  his  brother,  Thomas  Jeffer- 
son, commonly  called  Jeff,  started  off 
together  to  see  the  world  of  the  United 
States.  They  passed  through  the  "Mid- 
dle States"  of  that  da*  New  York,  New 
Jersey,  Pennsylvania  and  possibly  Dela- 
ware, went  down  the  Ohio  and  Miss- 
issippi, lingered  in  New  Orleans,  where 
Whitman  worked  on  the  staff  of  the 
Daily  Crescent.  The  two  at  last  fared 
northward  together,  touching  at  St. 
Louis,  Chicago,  Detroit,  several  places  in 
Wisconsin,  and  going  up  into  Canada. 
They  returned  by  the  Great  Lakes  and 
the  Hudson-  to  New  York,  having  been 
gone  about  two  years  and  traveled  8000 
miles.- 

From  18ol  to  1853  Whitman  tried 
housebuilding  in  Brooklyn.  In  the  ear- 
lier part  of  this  period  also  he  printed 
The  Freeman,  a  daily  and  weekly  news- 
paper. His  father  died  in  1855,  and  in 
that  year  Whitman  published  "Leaves 
oi  Grass,"  having  the  presswork  done  nt 
the  job  printing  bouse  of  bis  friends, 
the  Brothers  Rome.  The  volume  had  but 
94  pages. 

Whitman,  like  Shakespeare,  was  not 
an  infant  prodigy,  not  a  precocious 
genius.  Most  of  his  early  writings  he 
was  glad  to  leave  where  they  fell  un- 
regarded in  the  columns  of  one  periodi- 
cal or  another,  mostly  obscure.     Later 


72 
in  lifo.  when  unauthorized  persons  were 
making  ready  to  collect  and  republish 
some  of  these  early  uncopyrighted  things 
he  published  a  few  of  them  as  it  were 
in  self-defense.  Some  of  his  prose  tales, 
written  to  enforce  the  lesson  of  tem- 
perance in  the  use  of  strong  drink, 
show  dramatic  power  and  close  observa- 
tion, but  an  unformed  prose  style  a  lit- 
tle reminiscent  of  early  nineteenth  cen- 
tury models  before  second-rate  Eng- 
lish a  nd  American  prose  fiction  had 
shaken  off  the  influence  of  the  eighteenth 
century.  The  verse  of  that  period, 
1834  to  1842.  hardly  gives  premise  of 
"Leaves  of  Grass,"  though  the  poem 
entitled  "Blood  Money,"  dated  1843, 
suggests  in  form  and  matter  the  work 
of  his  maturity.  He  says  he  had  found 
it  hard  work  to  rid  the  earliest  "Leaves 
of  Grass,"  the  thin  volume  published 
in  1855,  of  conventional  "poetic" 
phrase's. 

Cold  critics  take  it  for  granted  that 
Whitman's  roughest  and  most  careless 
lines  came  of  mere  laziness,  an  unwill- 
ingness to  give  time  to  polishing  his 
verse,  and  he  was  perhaps  often  too  in- 
dolent to  do  his  best.  So  large  a  per- 
sonage ns  Whitman,  however,  is  not  to 
be  explained  by  mere  laziness.  He 
usually  knew  what  he  was  about.  He 
had  a  perfectly  definite  intention  and 
theory,  and  his  oft  ridiculed  "cata- 
logues" most  of  the  time  have  a  power- 
ful cumulative  effect.  As  to  his  happi- 
est lyric  movements,  they  are  unsur- 
passed by  even  the  greatest  lyric  poets, 
and  a  few  passages  stand  alone  as  su- 
preme examples  of  sound  fitted  to  sense, 
which  is  the  final  and  authentic  mark  of 
lyrical  perfection.  The  poem,  "Dirge 
for  Two  Veterans,"  which  has  some  very 
rough  atanzas,  and  closes  rather  inef- 
fectively, has  also  this  majestically  musi- 
cal stanza  : 

ul  see  the  sad  procession, 

And  I  hear  the  sound  of  coming  full- 
keyed  bugles,  i 

All  the  channels  of  the  city  streets! 
they're  flooding. 

As  with  voices  and  with  tears." 

Perhaps  nowhere  in  Whitman  are 
there  seven  lines  iu  which  sound  and 
sense  are  so  aptly  fitted  as  in  these  from 
the  poem  beginning  "In  Cabined  Ships 
at  Sea,"  and  bearing  that  line  for  title : 

"Here   not  the   land,   firm   land,   alone 

appears,"  may  then  by  them  be 

said, 
"The  sky  o'er  arches  here,  we  feel  the 

undulating  deck  beneath  our  feet 
We  feel  the  long  pulsation,  ebb  and  flow 

of  endless  motion, 
The  tones  of  unseen  mystery,  the  vague 

and  vast  suggestions  of  the  briny 

world,  the  liquid-flowing  syllables. 
The  perfume,  the  faint  creaking  of  the 

cordage,  the  melancholy  rhythm, 
The  boundless  vista  and  the  horizon  far 

and  dim  are  all  here. 
And  this  is  ocean's  poem." 

Whitman's  feeling  for  music,  or  to 
speak  more  broadly,  for  beauty  of 
sound,  finds  apt  expression  in  many 
passu  ce«  of  his  verse.  Sometimes  it  is 
the  music  of  waters,  as  this  from  "Sea- 
Drift  :" 

"Soothe!  Soothe!  Soothe! 
Close  on  its  wave  soothes  the  wave  be- 


hind. 
And   again   another   behind   embracing 

and  lapping,  every  one  dote, 
But  my  love  soothes  not  me,  not  me." 

Another  poem  opens  thus : 
"Proud  musie  of  the  storm, 
Blast   that    careers    so    free,    whistling 

across  the  prairies. 
Strong  hum  of  f  rest-tops-rwind  of  the 

mountains, 
Personified  dim  shapes— you  hidden  or- 
chestras, 
You  serenades  of  phantoms  with  instru- 
ments alert, 
Blending  with  nature's  rhythms  all  the 
tongues  of  nations." 
"The  Mystic  Trumpeter"  has  passage? 
that    approach    the    perfect    fitting    of 
sound  to  sense  found  in  the  seven  lines 
quoted  from  "In  Cabined  Ships  at  Sea." 
The  poem  is  one  of  Whitman's  most  de- 
licious, and  significant,  nobly  expressive 
of  his  highest  philosophy.     Here  is  the 
third  stanza  : 

"Blow  trumpeter  free  and  dear,  I  fol- 
low thee. 
While   at  thy  liquid  prelude,  glad,   se- 
rene, 
The    fretting    world,    the    streets,    the 

noisy  hours  of  day  withdraw, 
A  holy  calm  descends  like  dew  upon  me, 
I  walk  in  cool  refreshing  night  the  walks 

of  paradise, 
I  scent  the  grass,  the  moist  air  and  the 

roses; 
Thy  song  expands  my  numbed,  inbone:l 

spirit,  thou  freest,  launches*  me, 
Floating  and  basking  upon  heaven*' 
lake." 
Whitman's  philosophy  was  a  sort  of 
idealistic  democracy,  which  led  him  not 
only  to  a  belief  in  democratic  govern- 
ment, which  belief  he  had  directly  in- 
herited from  his  father,  who  seems  to 
have  been  a  disciple  of  Thomas  Jefferson 
for  whom  he  named  one  of  his  sons 
but  to  a  belief  in  social  democracy,  in 
literary  and  spiritual  democracy,  nis 
democratic  generalization  was  so  brood 
that  he  seems  to  have  cared  little  for 
any  particular  sect  claiming  for  itself 
exclusively  the  title  democratic.  In  his 
personal  relations  he  was  thoroughly 
democratic. 

In  his  wanderings  he  found  it  easy, 
interesting  and  not  uncomfortable  to 
live  in  daily  contact  with  all  sorts  of 
rough  men.  He  seems  to  have  believed 
that  his  poetry  would  be  popular,  would 
be  read  by  the  mass  of  his  fellow-dti- 
zens,  but  it  never  has  been  popular,  and 
the  first  to  recognize  it  were  men  of 
letters,  and  others  of  broad  literary 
view  and  strong  intellectual  curiosity. 

Whitman  put  into  his  verse  not  only 
his  social  and  political  democracy,  but 
his  democratic  interest  in  all  things  hu- 
man. He  not  only  celebrated  the  com- 
mon man,  but  all  sorts  of  meu,  th< 
vicious  and  criminal  as  well  as  the 
kindly  and  well-ordered,  and  more,  he 
felt  bound  to  express  in  his  poetry  all 
the  human  passions,  and  especially  the 
master  passion  of  sex.  He  tells  how  he 
walked  up  and  down  Boston  Common 
with  Emerson  for  hours,  while  his  fellow- 
poet,  one  of  the  first  to  hail  him  as  of 
the  true  poetic  brotherhood,  argued 
against  the  indution  la  "Leaves  of 
Grass"  of  the  poetry  dealing  nakedly 
and,  as  it  were,  brutally,  with  sex.   He 


found  Emerson's  argument 
able,  bat  It  left  Whitman  aB  the  mora 
determined  to  publish  the  poems  that 
Emerson  would  bar*  bad  him  suppress. 
Tbara  waa  a  tremendous  baa  and  cry 
again>t  these  poems,  aad  even  today  a 
few  critic*  aot  only  think  they  should 
not  have  been  published,  but  deny  Whit- 
man's parity  of  intent.  They  earned  him 
dismissal  from  his  desk  in  the  Treasury 
Department.  It  is  bard  to  see  how 
anyone,  who  knows  Whitman's  -work  as 
a  wbala  can  doubt  that  every  line  be 
published  waa  written  with  thoroughly 
good  intent  Harder  for  Americana  of 
British  ancestry  and  temperament  to 
understand  aad  accept  than  the  sexual 
poema  are  some  of  those  ia  which  Whit- 
man celebrates  the  lore  of  matradta.  for 
he  seems  not  to  bare  bad  that  shrinking 
from  physical  contact  with  Mends  of  his 
own  sex  which  is  so  characteristic  of 
the  Anglo-Saxon.  The  Latin  aad  Ger- 
man fashion  of  exchanging  kisses  with 
male  friends  did  aot  offend  Whitman,  if 
one  may  trust  the  language  of  his  rerses 
in  the  division  of  Ms  poetry  called 
"Calamus." 


Whitman's  rejection  of  ffiawBun'i  ir- 
resistible argument  for  the*  sake  of  his 
own  inner  light  was  the  direct  fruit  of 
his  Quaker  inheritance  and  upbringint, 
for  he  was  a  mystic,  and  this  mysti- 
cism, which  lad  him  to  trust  intuition 
rather  '  than  formal  logic,  determined 
him  to  publish  the  most  coatrumled 
port  of  his  rerse,  while  it  inspired  also 
his  noblest  utterances,  those  that  ex- 
preys  his  faith  in  man  as  essentially  a 
spiritual  being,  a  child  of  God  destined 
to  eternal  life.  These  conceptions  of 
man's  spiritual  being  and  destiny  ap- 
pear in  almost  erery  stage  of  Whit- 
man's poetic  development,  but  are  es- 
pecially frequent  in  bis  later  Terse. 
"Chaunting  the  Square  Detfic"  m  per- 
haps the  noblest  of  his  mystical  poems, 
though  "The  Mystic  Trumpeter"  comes 
near  it  in  deration  and  surpasses  it  in 
technical  beauty.  These  aad  other 
poems  of  like  aabject  make  up  the,  di- 
vision entitled  "Whispers  of  Hearenly 
Death."  One  of  the  best  In  this  divi- 
sion is  the  poem  of  10  lines  entitled  "A 
Noiseless  Patient  Spider."  .  Nobly 
beautiful  is  "The  Last  lnrecation,"  and 
another  strongly  expressive  of  his  spirit- 
ual faith  is  "Assurance.*' 

AH  bat  perhaps  the  few  thick-aud- 
thiu  admirers  of  Whitman  admit  his 
limitations,  hat  defects,  bis  errors  of 
taste.  When  all  these  things  have  been 
acknowledged  be  seems  to  remain  the 
one  powerfully  original  element  in 
American  poetry,  perhaps  the  sole 
American  poet  destined  to  be  a  long 
aad  world-wide  influence.  Ia  the  per- 
spective of  -  tb«  quarter-century  since 
bis  death  be  learns  large  aad  dear  of 
all  his  native  contemporaries;  Jr*  mean* 
urea  well  up  with  Uic  croatrat  necr*  te»ar 
Europe  produced  in  his  peridtt  Mcfti, 
while  his  foibles,  faults,  deficiencies, 
which  seem  triling  as  set  against  bia 
sum,  are  worth  a  glance.. 

Whitman  resented  somewhat  the 
charge  that  he  lacked'  humor,  but  bia 
writings  offer  little  or  nothing  to  refute 
it.  and  pern  up*  if  he  bad  had  hnmor 
along   with    the    genuine    modesty    f»r  ! 


78_ 

which  some  persons  did  ac 

credit  he  could  hardly  hare  eadared 

the  sort  ef  cult  that  a  small  group  made 
of  him  to  his  later  yean.  Hie  feed- 
nesu  for  a  few  foreign  words  grates  on 
most  readers  of  discrimination,  ouch 
worde  as  "libertad"  and  "eamerados." 
such  phrases  as  "en  masse."  The  na- 
tive word  "eligible''  be  also  uses  tee 
frequently,  and  in  a  sense  that  be  seeks 
to  impress  opea  It  a  sense  not  quite 
justified  by  origin  or  rnemmiu  use.  His 
catalogues,  picturesquely  aad  eaaauls- 
tirely  effective  as  they  often  are,  he 
sometimes  overdoes.  His  daUkerate 
dropping  into  .the  baldest  preee,  al- 
though a  studied  effect,  la  seldom 
happy.  Perhaps  /the  bast  test  of  his 
greatness  lies  ia  this,  that  be  bears 
frequent  rereading,  that  new  beauty 
and  fresh  significance  await  those  who 
return  to  bis  poems,  asps. dairy  to  sev- 
eral of  the  longer  and  leas  popular. 

Whitman's  bast  prose  is  almost  flaw- 
less, thourh  his  prose,  area  more  than 
his  verse,  suffers  from  bis  frequent  negli- 
gence and  his  annoying  use  of  long  paren- 
theses. Some  of  the  impressionist  prose 
descriptions  of  nature  equal  the  very 
best  things  ef  the  kind  in  the  whole 
range  of  English  prose,  and  in  the  tear 


Araonc  the  papers  or  a  assessed 
who  was  fond  of  collecting  odd 
tin .  interesting  specimen  was  diaeeeeeMt 

Hero  iato  the  dost 

The  moldering 
OX  Eteaaar  Batcbelder*s 

Well  versed  In  the  arts 

Ol  plea,  pastry  anal  tar  is. 
And  the  lucrative  sciQ  of  the  oven. 

tVhen  abe'd  lived  loos  enough 

"he  mode  her  last  paff— 
A  pi: ft  by  her  nusband  mneh 

And  here  she  doth  lie 

And  makes  a  dirt  ate, 
In  bopes  that  her  eras*  will  he 


jnat 
ertti- 
Jwdt- 


y,  "Deotocrtttic  Vsstoa,'1 
CArelessly  written,  there  an 
passages  of  I 
skillfully  avoid  poetic 
cal  prose  shows  tem  person 
ment  although  mere  gam 
aim  to  overrate  some  of  Ma  enatomper- 
aries,  as  Longfellow,  Lowell,  by  the 
way,  criticized  Whitman  ia  a  totter  to 
Eliot  Norton,  and  left  feteeer  B  measure 
of  bis  owa  Umitstioos,  when  he  wrote, 
In  1855,  touchiag  "Learea ef  Oca**:" 
"No,  no,  the  hind  of  thiaa  yea  deeeribe 

"This  wifl  never  do,"  sHiinai  ay  a 

To  be  truly  popster  WMbbbbb  must 
wait  for  the  maw  that  ha  hoped  would 
come,  when  all  area  bare  teteasa  aad  the-' 
chance  for  Intellectual  aad  spirit  eel  self- 
development  Meanwhile,  a 
bia  birth,  a  quarter  ceatary  after  Ms 
death,  his  work  gives  piemtea  ef 
lag  a  vast  deal  of  that 
centemporsrlea  In  whatever 
has  definitely  takes  hte 
comparatively 
writers  added  to 
the  nlaeteeath  taaataa*  ■  ...  t 
nnr.Vlll  IIIMlli 


'• 


I  see  not  America  only— 1  sea 


WHITMAN'S 
!  OFTODAT-- 

have  found 

world  -toation  ia 

in  Viator  Httfo,  aad  hi  rarfeus 
j  other  foreicn   ■lltaig,  but  an 

Englishman  ceJla  artamtfcm  to) 
j  Walt  Whitman.    Dr.  C.  W. 

Saleeby,  writinff  to  the  Loader, 

Timet,  makes  an 

Wait's  M  Tears  of 
I  flnrt  published  fat "  Drmn  Tape" 

inl8r^andaaka,"Ianot  this 

indeed  prophecy— -the 

utterance  of  the  Drriao?' 
i  only  Liberty's  Batten,  be* 


I  see  treamsaaass  an  a  am  as  aad  emits— I  see 

soHdarity  of  races: 
I  am  thai  force  advancing  with  UfoawUuae 
(■are  the  old  forces,  toe  old  wars,  passed  i 

tottsa  taanjdD 

Law  oa  i 

A  Btopeastoaa  Trio,  aD  assume  forth  against  the  idea  of 
—What  Materia  denouements  are  these  we  an  rapidly  i 
I  am  mea  gsaaoamf  aad  ooeater-aBarcmntj  by  awns 
I  see  the  frontiers  and  boundaries  of  tee  oU 
I  see  the  landmarks  of 

T   aseaaai    rSssW   sAsneap   fha    BsBBBStaBSfean   BB^BaBsftaaMedamee>   llui ■    I  m.  — joWssLSLaaha  a    /aassl 


Whitman's  Self-Reliance  N.v  /8j? 
It  is  oveTsixty  years  since  Goethe  said  that  to  be  a 
German  author  was  to  be  a  German  martyr.  I  presume 
things  have  changed  in  Germany  since  those  times,  and 
that  the  Goethe  of  to-day  does  not  encounter  the  jealousy 
and  hatred  the  great  poet  and  critic  of  Weimar  seemed 
to  have  called  forth.  But  we  in  America  have  known  an 
American  author  who  was  an  American  martyr  in  a 
more  literal  sense  than  any  of  the  men  named  by  the 
great  German.  More  than  Heine,  or  Rousseau,  or 
Moliere,  or  Byron,  was  Walt  Whitman  a  victim  of  the 
literary  Philistinism  of  his  country  and  times  ;  but, 
fortunately  for  himself,  his  was  a  nature  so  large,  tole- 
rant and  self-sufficing  that  his  martyrdom  sat  lightly 
upon  him.  His  unpopularity  was  rather  a  tonic  to  him 
than  otherwise.  He  said  he  was  more  resolute  because 
all  had  denied  him  than  he  ever  could  have  been  had  all 
accepted  him,  and  he  added  : 

' '  I  heed  not  and  have  never  heeded  cautions,  majorities 
or  ridicule. ' ' 

There  are  no  more  precious  and  tonic  pages  in  history 
than  the  records  of  men  who  have  faced  unpopularity, 
odium,  hatred,  ridicule,  detraction,  in  obedience  to  an 
inward  voice,  and  never  lost  courage  or  good  nature. 
Whitman's  is  the  most  striking  case  in  our  literary  an- 
nals— probably  the  most  striking  one  in  our  century  out- 
side of  politics  and  religion.  The  inward  voice  alone 
was  the  oracle  he  obeyed  :  ' '  My  commission  obeying, 
to  question  it  never  daring. ' ' 

The  bitter-sweet  cup  of  unpopularity  he  drained  to  its 
dregs,  and  drained  it  cheerfully,  as  one  knowing  before- 
hand that  it  is  preparing  for  him  and  cannot  be  avoided. 

"  Have  you  learn'd  lessons  only  of  those  who  admired 
you  and  were  tender  with  you  and  stood  aside  for 
you? 

Have  you  not  learn'd  great  lessons  from  those  who  reject 
you,  and  brace  themselves  against  you  ?  or  who 
treat  you  with  contempt,  or  dispute  the  passage 
with  you  f ' ' 

Every  man  is  a  partaker  in  the  triumph  of  him  who  is 
always  true  to  himself  and  makes  no  compromises  with 
customs,  schools  or  opinions.  Whitman's  life,  under- 
neath its  easy  tolerance  and  cheerful  good- will,  was  heroic. 
He  fought  his  batde  against  great  odds  and  he  conquered  ; 
he  had  his  own  way,  he  yielded  not  a  hair  to  the  enemy. 

The  pressure  brought  to  bear  upon  him  by  the  press, 
by  many  of  his  friends,  or  by  such  a  man  as  Emerson, 
whom  he  deeply  reverenced,  to  change  or  omit  certain 
passages  from  his  poems,  seems  only  to  have  served  as 
the  opposing  hammer  that  clinches  the  nail.  The  louder 
the  outcry  the  more  deeply  he  felt  it  his  duty  to  stand 
by  his  first  convictions.  The  fierce  and  scornful  oppo- 
sition to  his  sex  poems,  and  to  his  methods  and  aims 
generally,  was  probably  more  confirmatory  than  any 
approval  could  have  been.  It  went  to  the  quick.  During 
a  dark  period  of  his  life,  when  no  publisher  would  touch 
his  book,  and  when  its  exclusion  from  the  mails  was  threat- 
ened, and  poverty  and  paralysis  were  upon  him,  a  wealthy 
Philadelphian  offered  to  furnish  means  for  its  publication 
if  he  would  omit  certain  poems  ;  but  the  poet  does  not 
seem  to  have  been  tempted  for  one  moment  by  the  offer. 
He  cheerfully  chose  the- heroic  part,  as  he  always  did. 

Emerson  reasoned  and  remonstrated  with  him  for 
hours,  walking  up  and  down  Boston  Common,  and  after 
he  had  finished  his  argument,  says  Whitman,  which  was 
unanswerable,  "  I  felt  down  in  my  soul  the  clear  and 
unmistakable  conviction  to  disobey  all,  and  pursue  my  own 
way."  He  told  Emerson  so  ;  whereupon  they  went  and 
dined  together.  The  independence  of  the  poet  probably 
impressed  Emerson  more  than  his  yielding  would  have 
done,  for,  had  not  he  preached  the  adamantine  doctrine 


74 

of  self-trust?  "To  believe  your  own  thought,"  he 
says,  "  to  believe  that  what  is  true  for  you  in  your  pri- 
vate heart  is  true  of  all  men — that  is  genius. 

In  many  ways  was  Whitman,  quite  unconsciously  to 
himself,  the  man  Emerson  invoked  and  prayed  for — the 
absolutely  self-reliant  man  ;  the  man  who  should  find  his 
own  day  and  land  sufficient  ;  who  had  no  desire  to  be 
Greek,  or  Italian,  or  French,  or  English,  but  only  him- 
self :  who  should  not  whine,  or  apologize,  or  go  abroad  ; 
who  should  not  duck,  or  deprecate,  or  borrow,  and  who 
could  see  through  the  many  disguises  or  debasements  of 
our  times  the  lineaments  of  the  same  gods  that  so  rav- 
ished the  bards  of  old. 

The  moment  a  man  "acts  for  himself,"  says  Emer- 
son, "tossing  the  laws,  the  books,  idolatries  and  cus- 
toms out  of  the  window,  we  pity  him  no  more,  but  thank 
and  revere  him." 

Whitman  took  the  philosopher  at  his  word.  "  Great- 
ness once  and  forever  has  done  with  opinion,"  even  the 
opinion  of  the  good  Emerson.  "  Heroism  works  in  con- 
tradiction to  the  voice  of  mankind,  and  in  contradiction, 
for  a  time,  to  the  voice  of  the  great  and  good. "  "  Every 
heroic  act  measures  itself  by  its  contempt  of  some  ex- 
ternal good  " — popularity,  for  instance.  "  The  charac- 
teristic of  heroism  is  persistency."  "When  you  have 
chosen  your  part  abide  by  it,  and  do  not  weakly  try  to 
reconcile  yourself  with  the  world."  "Adhere  to  your 
act  and  congratulate  yourself  if  you  have  done  something 
strange  and  extravagant,  and  broken  the  monotony  of  a 
decorous  age. ' '  Heroism  ' '  is  the  avowal  of  the  un- 
schooled man  that  he  finds  a  quality  in  him  that  is  negli- 
gent of  expense,  of  health,  of  life,  of  danger,  of  hatred,  of 
reproach,  and  knows  that  his  will  is  higher  and  more  excel- 
lent than  all  actual  and  all  possible  antagonists. "  "A  man 
is  to  carry  himself  in  the  presence  of  all  opposition  as  if 
everything  were  titular  and  ephemeral  but  he."  "  Great 
works  of  art,"  he  again  says,  "  teach  us  to  abide  by  our 
spontaneous  impression  with  good-natured  inflexibility, 
the  more  when  the  whole  cry  of  voices  is  on  the  other 
side. ' '  These  brave  sayings  of  Emerson  were  all  illustrated 
and  confirmed  by  Whitman's  course.  The  spectacle  of 
this  man  sitting  there  by  the  window  of  his  little  house 
in  Camden,  poor  and  partially  paralyzed,  and  looking 
out  upon  the  trite  and  commonplace  scenes  and  people, 
or  looking  athwart  the  years  and  seeing  only  detraction 
and  denial,  yet  always  serene,  cheerful,  charitable,  his 
wisdom  and  tolerance  ripening  and  mellowing  with  time, 
is  something  to  treasure  and  profit  by.  He  was  a  man 
who  needed  no  assurances.  He  had  the  patience  and  the 
leisure  of  nature.  He  welcomed  your  friendly  and  sym- 
pathetic word,  or  with  equal  composure  he  did  without  it. 

I  remember  calling  upon  him  shortly  after  Swinburne's 
fierce  onslaught  upon  him  had  been  published,  some 
time  in  the  latter  part  of  the  eighties.  I  was  curious  to 
see  how  Whitman  took  it,  but  I  could  not  discover 
either  in  word  or  look  that  he  was  disturbed  a  particle 
by  it.  He  spoke  as  kindly  of  Swinburne  as  ever.  If  he 
was  pained  at  all  it  was  on  Swinburne's  account  and  not 
on  his  own.  It  was  a  sad  sight  to  see  a  man  retreat 
upon  himself  as  Swinburne  had  done.  In  fact,  I  think 
hostile  criticism,  fiercely  hostile,  gave  Whitman  nearly 
as  much  comfort  as  any  other.  Did  it  not  attest  reality  ? 
Men  do  not  brace  themselves  against  shadows.  Swin- 
burne's polysyllabic  rage  showed  the  force  of  the  current 
he  was  trying  to  stem.  As  for  Swinburne's  hydroceph- 
alus muse.  I  do  not  think  Whitman  took  any  interest 
in  it  from  the  first. 

Self-reliance,  or  self-trust,  is  one  of  the  principles 
Whitman  announces  in  his  "  Laws  for  Creations."  He 
saw  that  no  first-class  work  is  possible  except  it  issue  from 
a  man's  deepest,  most  radical  self. 


15    J     M 


«  "So  °  t  „  :5 

-   1=    —     On     H 


S     *     2 

V     O     a 

c  "2  - 


J*    © 


a 


i    —  c 


. .    6    T3     B 
'■5  u~  •-    v  -^    £ 


-5    c 


I  2 


b    t3 

>>  u 

£  -a 
o  o 
o.J2 


e  °-  e 


o  ^ 


§■5 


EL  "3 


o 
2  * 


£    "     °   T3 


■d  « :s  a  £ 


«    c    «  -s 


C   2 


bfi  tc  2  '2 


be 

-  «-  ■S  S  ' 

o  '■=  2  — 

*  £    3  n 

*  ■=    o    n 

o 


a  ti  a 


■"     c 


=.   P  £ 


2 

°   © 

_    >>  <-> 

^    S     (30 


-   u    ™  -s    <n    >    o 


C     b  Q. 


x  •? 


c 

<•  '£,  H 

u  *•>  aO  o 

—  >  <J  S 

•O  V  3 

c  -c  •*=  c 

B  •■>  u  .3 


=     3  c 

JO  Z 

o 

*-»  *— ' 

•=.  13 

*  E 

2  15 


o 

•o  § 

1 1 


>>-2 


J5  «   5  -3 


4ZM 


'>  .S2    —    rt 

'•5 

•O    2    °    > 


2  «  -5 


■=  X 


•B     *,j 


£   E 


n  3 


£   a  £•  ~ 


-    >-    5    c 

»*.        01       *       "^ 


i     «  -ri 
H  1: 


-       E  = 

c  -5   a 


«    2>  E  "§  ■£ 


c2 
£  2 
o 


iv     in 


V 


-C    j= 


•g  J5 


•v  ~ 
S   o 


i?  «  « 
-g  .S  H2 
i!  .i  .> 


_  a  Ji 

■jz  >    a. 

-3  'Mi  g 

c  o   a 

«  j= 


«  3   g  j= 

|   §   Ej  2   % 


c  ^ 

"        I. 

E  .E 


:   ■&  to 

E    u 

c  .- 

JC   -D 

o    *-* 

19   .£>    JO 

.E  jo 

e    c 

a 


Ji    M  «    E 
-    o    >>•- 

c  £  >> 

tn     a  .— 


—  Co) 


3 


2S 

o  E 


£      E  * 


u , 

*>'% 

in  * 
O    v 

a.  <* 
a,  o 
3  g> 

o   >, 


-   c  ° 
u  --    e 

°T3    B 

fca  E 

°-2  - 

3     S     B 
">  J= 

§  4,r 

■5    3 


3 
O 


11 
C 
'> 

'■3 


-a 
o 
O 


■3      B 

•£     §| 

B  >>  B 


C   2  jo 

"O    w    B  <u 

C        -1       i  h. 

^5^  o  " 

J= 


B 


J=  o. 


.2    B    o    O, 

B    6     OJ= 

J3    >.°    M 

~.  "  =    "**  3 

is     "b  w  2 

"S    B,E    B  J= 


75 


did  how  completely  our  people  were  under  the  illusion 
of  the  genteel  and  the  conventional,  and  that  even 
among  the  emancipated  few  the  possession  of  anything 
like  robust  aesthetic  perception  was  rare  enough.  Amer- 
ica, so  bold  and  original  and  independent  in  the  world 
of  practical  politics  and  material  endeavor,  is,  in  spirit- 
ual and  imaginative  regions,  timid,  conforming,  imi- 
tative. There  is,  perhaps,  no  civilized  country  in  the 
world  wherein  the  native,  original  man,  the  real  critter,  as 
Whitman  loved  to  say,  that  underlies  all  our  culture  and 
conventions,  crops  out  so  little  in  manners,  in  literature 
and  in  social  usages.  The  fear  of  being  unconventional 
is  greater  with  us  than  the  fear  of  death.  A  certain 
evasiveness,  polish,  distrust  of  ourselves,  amounting  to 
insipidity  and  insincerity,  is  spoken  of  by  observant  for- 
eigners. In  other  words,  we  are  perhaps  the  least  like 
children  of  any  people  in  the  world.  In  due  time  youth 
and  manhood  meet  ;  the  greatest  men  are  the  most 
frank  and  simple  ;  but,  as  a  people,  we  have  a  long  way 
yet  to  travel  to  reach  this  blessed  state.  All  these 
things  were  against  Whitman,  and  will  continue  to  be 
against  him  for  a  long  time.  With  the  first  stroke  he 
broke  through  the  conventional  and  took  his  stand  upon 
the  natural.  With  rude  hands  he  tore  away  the  veils 
and  concealments  from  the  body  and  from  the  soul.  He 
ignored  entirely  all  social  and  conventional  usages  and 
hypocrisies,  not  by  revolt  against  them,  but  by  choosing 
a  point  of  view  from  which  they  disappeared.  He  em- 
braced the  unrefined  and  the  savage  as  well  as  the  ten- 
der and  human.  The  illusions  of  the  past,  of  the  models 
and  standards,  he  freed  himself  of  at  once,  and  de- 
clared for  the  beauty  and  the  divinity  of  the  now  and  the 
here.  He  did  not  hesitate  to  say  that  ' '  what  is  nearest, 
cheapest,  easiest  is  me."  Such  an  example  of  self-asser- 
tion, not  only  in  behalf  of  himself  but  in  behalf  of  his  fellows 
and  of  his  country,  was  never  before  seen  in  any  recent 
literature.  The  arrogance  and  the  assumptions  of  the 
work  were  astounding.  But  its  boundless  humanitarian 
spirit,  its  tremendous  practical  democracy,  its  grasp  of  the 
great  spiritual  forces  and  its  pristine  splendor  and  fresh- 
ness, like  the  sea  and  the  orbs,  won  for  it  a  tardy  recogni- 
tion here  and  there  ;  yet  to  say  that  the  public  taste  was 
shocked,  is  not  saying  much  :  appreciative  readers 
were  often  bewildered.  Even  Emerson's  admiration,  so 
strongly  and  eloquently  expressed  in  his  now  famous 
letter  to  the  poet,  though  never  taken  back,  was  appar- 
ently held  in  abeyance  for  years  before  his  death. 

Out  of  Whitman's  absolute  self-trust  arose  his  pro- 
phetic egotism — the  divine  fervor  and  audacity  of  the 
simple  ego.  He  shared  the  conviction  of  the  old  proph- 
ets that  man  is  a  part  of  God,  and  that  there  is  nothing 
in  the  universe  any  more  divine  than  the  individual  soul. 
"T,  too,"  he  says,  and  this  line  is  the  key  to  much 
there  is  in  his  work — 

"  I,  too,  have  felt  the  resistless  call  of  myself." 

With  the  old  Biblical  writers  the  motions  of  their  own 
spirits,  their  thoughts,  dreams,  etc. ,  was  the  voice  of 
God.  There  is  something  of  the  same  sort  in  Whit- 
man.    The  voice  of  that  inner  self  was  final  and  author- 


itative with  him.  It  was  the  voice  of  God.  He  could 
drive  through  and  over  all  the  conventions  of  the  world 
in  obedience  to  that  voice.  This  call  to  him  was  as  a 
voice  from  Sinai.  One  of  his  mastering  thoughts  was 
the  thought  of  identity — that  you  are  you,  and  I  am  I. 
This  was  the  final  meaning  of  things,  and  the  meaning 
of  immortality.  "  Yourself,  yourself,  yourself,"  he 
says,  with  swelling  vehemence,  "'forever  and  ever." 
To  be  compacted  and  riveted  and  fortified  in  yourself, 
so  as  to  be  a  law  unto  yourself,  is  the  final  word  of  the 
past  and  of  the  present. 

Whitman's  egotism,  colossal  as  it  was,  was  not  per- 
sonal and  ignoble.  It  was  vicarious  and  all-embracing 
of  humanity.  He  thought  better  of  every  man  than 
that  man  thought  of  himself.  Selfishness  in  any 
unworthy  sense  he  had  none.  Vanity,  arrogance,  self- 
assertion  in  his  life  there  was  none.  Fondness  for  praise, 
as  such,  which  has  been  so  often  charged,  I  fail  to  detect. 

A  craving  for  sympathy  and  personal  affection  he  cer- 
tainly had  ;  to  be  valued  as  a  human  being  was  more  to 
him  than  to  be  valued  as  a  poet.  His  strongest  attach- 
ments were  probably  for  persons  who  had  no  opinion, 
good  or  bad,  of  his  poetry  at  all. 

His  egotism,  if  there  is  no  better  word,  united  him  to 
his  fellows  rather  than  separated  him  from  them.  It 
was  not  that  of  a  man  who  sets  himself  up  above  others, 
or  who  claims  some  special  advantage  or  privilege,  but 
that  god-like  quality  that  would  make  others  share  its 
great  good  fortune.  Hence  we  are  not  at  all  shocked 
when  the  poet,  in  the  fervor  of  his  love  for  mankind, 
determinedly  imputes  to  himself  all  the  sins  and  vices 
and  follies  of  his  fellow-men.  We  rather  glory  in  it. 
This  self-abasement  is  the  seal  of.  the  authenticity  of  his 
egotism.  Without  those  things  there  might  be  some 
ground  for  the  complaint  of  a  Boston  critic  of  Whitman 
that  his  work  was  not  noble,  because  it  celebrated  pride, 
and  did  not  inculcate  the  virtues  of  humility  and  self- 
denial,  etc.  The  great  lesson  of  the  "Leaves,"  flow- 
ing curiously  out  of  its  pride  and  egotism,  is  the  lesson 
of  charity,  of  self-surrender,  and  the  free  bestowal  of 
yourself  upon  all  hands. 

The  law  of  life  of  great  art  is  the  law  of  life  in  ethics, 
and  was  long  ago  announced. 

He  that  would  lose  his  life  shall  find  it  ;  he  that  gives 
himself  the  most  freely  shall  the  most  freely  receive. 
Whitman  made  himself  the  brother  and  equal  of  all, 
not  in  word,  but  in  very  deed  ;  he  was  in  himself  a 
compend  of  the  people  for  which  he  spoke,  and  this 
breadth  of  sympathy  and  free  giving  of  himself  has 
resulted  in  an  unexpected  accession  of  power. 

John  Burroughs. 


A  COLLEGE  POEM  BY  BRYANT. 

$^£ff'      By  the  Rev   J.  L.  Jenkins. 

BRYANT'S  college  life  was  short — two  terms 
only.  He  entered  the  Sophomore  Class  at  Will- 
iams in  the  fall  of  October,  1810,  and  left  in  the 
spring.  Daring  this  time  he  wrote  at  least  one  poem. 
Mr.  Bigelow,  in  his  Life  of  Bryant,  says  it  was  deliv- 
ered before  one  of  the  college  societies.     He  quotes 


76 


ten  lines  from  it,  prefacing  the  quotation  with 
these  words :  *'  They  show  that  he  was  satisfied 
neither  with  the  climate,  town,  college,  nor  its  au- 
thorities." 

A  copy  of  the  entire  poem  is  in  my  possession. 
It  is  in  the  handwriting  of  my  father.  To  the 
poem  is  attached  this  statement :  "  Written  by  W. 
C.  Bryant,  late  a  member  of  the  Sophomore  Class 
in  Williams  College."  My  father  was  in  the  same 
elaes  with  Bryant  They  knew  each  other  well,  I 
infer  from  the  fact  that  in  a  letter  of  Bryant,  writ- 
ten  in  1859,  my  father  is  mentioned  by  name,  with 
three  others,  as  the  men  he  remembered  most  dis- 
tinctly as  college  acquaintances.  The  many  Will- 
iams men  scattered  over  the  land  and  world  will, 
I  judge,  be  interested  in  the  poem,  which  I  give  m 
I  have  it 

It  needs  hardly  be  said  that  those  of  as  familiar 
in  recent  years  with  the  fair  Berkshire  college 
town,  with  its  clean  streets  and  wel'-kept  college 
and  private  grounds,  its  noble  buildings  and  world- 
famous  instructors,  do  not  recognize  it  in  the  poet's 
description.  If  it  was  ever  true,  immense  credit 
belongs  to  those  who  from  the  veriest  desert  have 
made  a  matchless  garden. 

Lover  of  Berkshire  as  I  am,  it  mast  be  confessed 
that  Bryant's  description  of  soil  and  climate  comes 
nearer  to  the  truth  in  February  and  March  than  in 
any  other  of  the  twelve  months  of  the  year. 


LONGFELLOW'S    COMMENCEMENT 
Ti^Cfr/v**.^.      ORATION.      £«m.  is; 

T^ETBy  Gbobge  T.  Packakd.  '^, 

THE  Commencement  parts  which  aspiring  youths 
have  lately  given  to  the  world  did  not,  as  a 
rale,  clearly  foreshadow  the  future  occupations  of 
the  speakers.  More  than  one  hard-headsd  and  un- 
rhythmical student  for  instance,  has  treated  the 
shade  of  Shelley  to  its  annual  surprise  by  presenting 
an  unsolicited  tribute  to  the  worth  of  the  poet's 
verse.  This  Commencement  effort  will  be  fol- 
lowed, it  may  be,  by  the  undoubted  prose  of  a 
farmer's  life.  In  fact  there  is  a  certain  pathos  in 
the  feeling  that  these  compositions  are  often  tender 
farewells  to  the  poetical  side  of  life,  and  not  even 
suggestive  of  a  "  might  have  been."  Perhaps  the 
most  striking  instance  of  this  somewhat  violent 
estrangement  between  the  graduating  theme  and 
the  chosen  calling  was  that  of  a  student  I  knew  of, 
who  discoursed  upon  the  physical  sciences  (borrow- 
ing his  words,  as  he  gleefully  confessed,  from  a 
famous  man  of  science)  and  then  betook  himself  to 
sawing  logs. 

Not  so,  however,  was  it  with  Longfellow,  the 
subject  of  whose  Commencement  oration,  when  he 
graduated  at  Bowdoin  College  in  1825,  was  "  Our 
Native  Writers."  The  whole  drift  of  the  com- 
position, not  less  than  the  subject  itself,  was  in 
keeping  with  the  predestined  work  which  was  to 
enrich  and  gladden  so  many  hearts. 

A  number  of  years  ago,  this  composition  of 
Longfellow  was  reproduced  in  the  columns  of  an 
attractive  periodical  in  Boston,  "  Every  Other 
Saturdays"  whose  rather  brief  but  dignified  career 
was  followed  by  the  friendly  interest  of  a  fit  if  re- 
stricted circle  of  readers.  Its  editor  described  the 
text  of  the  comj>osition  as  in  the  "  same  beautiful 
chirography  that  the  poet  always  used."  Even 
Longfellow's  finished  handwriting  seems  to  have 
been  born  with  him.  Probably  few  readers  of 
The  Christian  Union  ever  saw  the  periodical  to 
which  I  refer,  and  the  college  essay  will  be,  there- 


DE8CRXFTIO  GULTELMOPOLI8. 

No  more  the  brumal  tempest  sheds 

Its  gathered  stores  in  sleety  showers, 

Nor  yet  the  vernal  season  spreads 

Her  verdant  mantle  gemmed  with  flowers  ; 

Bat  fettered  stands  the  naked  year 

And  shivers  to  the  ohilliog  air, 

And  lingers  dubious  on  the  wing  ; 

And  often  straggles  to  unclasp 

Reluctant  Winter's  ioy  grasp 

And  greet  the  arms  of  Spring. 

Hemmed  in  with  hills,  whose  heads  aspire, 
Abrupt  and  rude,  and  hung  with  woods  ; 
Amidst  these  vales  I  touch  the  lyre, 
Where  devious  Hoosack  rolls  his  floods. 
Dear  vales,  where  every  pleasure  meets, 
Fain  would  I  paint  thy  slimy  streets, 
Extensive  views  and  wholesome  air, 
Thy  soil  with  churlish  guardians  blest 
And  horrors  of  the  bleak  Northwest 
Poured  through  the  chasm  afar. 

Safe  from  the  morning's  golden  eye 
And  sheltered  from  the  western  breeze, 
These  happy  regions  bosomed  lie — 
The  seats  of  bliss  and  towers  of  ease, 
Far-famed  spot  whose  fertile  breast 
Now  droughts  with  lengthened  blaze  infest, 
Now  tempests  drench  with  copious  flood. 
Alternate  heat  and  cold  surprise, 
A  frozen  desert  now  it  lies, 
And  now  a  sea  of  mud  I 


While  rising  on  the  tainted  gale, 

The  morbid  exhalations  ride, 

And  hover  o'er  the  unconscious  vale, 

Or  steep  upon  the  mountain  side. 

Then  on  her  misty  car  reclined, 

Her  aching  brows  with  nightshade  twined, 

Disease  unseen  directs  her  way, 

Wields  the  black  scepter  of  her  reign 

And  barbs  her  shafts  with  keener  pain, 

And  singles  ont  her  prey. 

Why  should  I  sing  its  turbid  springs 
That  trickle  through  its  rocks  of  lime, 
And  why  those  domes  where  science  flings 
Her  far-diffasing  rays  sublime. 
When  through  the  horror-breathing  halls 
The  pale-faced,  moping  students  crawl 
Like  spectered  monuments  of  woe, 
Or  studious  seek  the  unwholesome  cell, 
Where  dost  and  gloom  and  cobwebs  dwell, 
Dark,  dirty,  dank,  and  low. 

Yet  on  the  picture  dark  with  shade 

Let  not  the  eye  forever  gaxe 

Where  lawless  power  her  nest  has  laid, 

And  stern  suspicion  treads  her  maze. 

The  storm  that  o'er  the  wintry  waste 

Bides  howling  on  the  northern  blast, 

In  time  will  curb  its  furious  way  ; 

But  that  o'er  Hoosack's  vales  which  looks 

Will  never  hail  serener  boon, 

Nor  open  to  the  day. 


fore,  an  unexpected  token  of  the  early  maturity  of 
the  poet 

The  composition  consists  of  about  1,200  words, 
equal  to  a  column  and  a  third  of  The  Christian 
Union.  The  style  is  clear  and  rhythmical,  and, 
apart  from  some  touches  which  tell  of  youthful- 
neBS,  the  treatment  of  the  subject  is  far  more  sus- 
tained and  properly  proportioned  than  that  of  the 
majority  of  graduating  parts.  Longfellow  was  but 
eighteen  years  old  when  he  graduated.  In  the 
class,  numbering  thirty-eight  only  three  were 
younger  than  himself.  One  of  these,  the  Rev.  Dr. 
George  B.  Cheever,  was  his  junior  by  less  than 
two  months.  Hawthorne — born  on  the  4th  of  July, 
by  the  way — was  nearly  three  years  his  senior. 

These  are  the  opening  sentences  of  the  oration  : 
"  To  an  American  there  is  something  endearing  in 
the  very  sounds — Oar  Native  Writers.  Like  the 
music  of  our  native  tongue,  when  heard  in  a  foreign 
land,  they  have  power  to  kindle  up  within  him  the 
tender  memory  of  his  home  and  fireside ;  and,  more 
than  this,  they  foretell  that  whatever  is  noble  and 
attractive  in  our  national  character  will  one  day  be 
associated  with  the  sweet  magic  of  Poetry."  He 
asks  If  our  land  is  to  be  the  "  land  of  song,"  and 
answers,  "  Yes ;  and  palms  are  to  be  won  by  our 
native  writers."  A  "first  beginning  of  a  national 
literature  "  has  been  made,  but  "  we  cannot  yet 
throw  off  our  literary  allegiance  to  Old  England, 
we  cannot  yet  remove  from  our  shelves  every  book 
which  is  not  strictly  and  truly  American."  "  Eng- 
lish literature  is  a  great  and  glorious  monument 
.  .  .  rising  bright  and  beautiful  till  its  summit  is 
hid  in  the  mists  of  antiquity." 

He  discusses  the  hindrances  to  the  progress  of  a 
distinctively  American  literature,  and  says:  "  Poet- 
ry with  us  bas  never  yet  been  anything  but  a  pas- 
time. The  fault  however,  is  not  so  much  that  of 
our  writers  as  of  the  prevalent  modes  of  thinking 


-9  8  33 

'S   g  a   fl 

'sails 

.bj»U  e 

I"*  .  s 
i  J-i  a  s 

g  S.g  a 

e»    a 

ja  — •  _ 
-3   3   a.  2 

is  fo- 
il IS 

g  o.  •  -3 
M  9  s  « 

*lgj 

p  •  B 

x-aia 


§•3-  If,  * 
»  ^  5  3  i  i 

<■>  a  *  * 


a  h*  \3  "3 
.a  *»  fl 


—  9 


"SI 


_  > 
5 -13 

a 

I  M  •  o 
•1-2  §  o*o* 


>  o  *| 


:-3-5 


mart  be  a  deep  and  thorough  conviction  of  the 
glory  of  their  calling — an  otter  abandonment  of 
everything  else— and  a  noble  self  devotion  to  the 
cause  of  literature.  ...  In  the  vanity  of  scholar- 
ship, England  has  reproached  as  that  we  have  no 
finished  scholars.  .  .  .  Oar  very  poverty  in  this 
respect  will  have  a  tendency  to  give  a  national 
character  to  oar  literature.  .  .  .  We  are  thus  thrown 
upon  ourselves ;  and  thus  shall  oar  native  hills  be- 
come renowned  in  song,  like  those  of  Greece  and 
Italy.  Every  rock  shall  become  a  chronicle  of 
storied  allusions;  and  the  tomb  of  the  Indian 
prophet  be  as  hallowed  as  the  sepolchers  of  ancient 
kings  or  the  damp  vault  and  perpetual  lamp  of  the 
Saracen  monarch.'' 

The  "influence  of  natural  scenery  in  forming 
the  poetical  character "  is  the  special  thought  de- 
veloped in  the  latter  part  of  the  oration.  Here  are 
sentences  that  the  man  Longfellow  might  have 
been  willing  to  own  as  his  offspring :  "  Genius,  to 
be  sore,  most  be  born  with  a  man ;  and  it  is  its 
high  prerogative  to  be  free,  limitless,  irrepressible. 
Yet  how  is  it  molded  by  the  plastic  hand  of  Na- 
ture !  how  are  its  attributes  shaped  and  modulated, 
when  a  genius  like  Canova's  failed  in  the  bast  of 
the  Corsican,  and  amid  the  splendor  of  the  French 
metropolis  languished  for  the  sonny  skies  and  vine- 
clad  hills  of  Italy  !  Men  may  talk  of  sitting  down 
in  the  calm  and  quiet  of  their  libraries,  and  of  for- 
getting, in  tbe  eloquent  companionship  of  books, 
all  the  vain  cares  that  beset  them  in  the  crowded 
thoroughfares  of  life ;  bat,  after  all,  there  is  noth- 
ing which  so  frees  as  from  the  turbulent  ambition 
and  bustle  of  the  world,  nothing  which  so  fills  the 
mind  with  great  and  glowing  conceptions,  and  at 
the  same  time  so  warms  the  heart  with  love  and 
tenderness,  as  a  frequent  and  close  communion 
with  natural  scenery." 

"  We  may  rejoice,  then,"  concludes  the  yoathf al 

orator,  "  in  the  hope  of  beauty  and  sublimity  ill 
oar  national  literature,  for  no  people  are  richer 
than  we  are  in  the  treasores  of  nature.  And  well 
may  each  of  as  feel  a  glorious  and  high-minded 
pride  in  saying,  as  he  looks  on  the  hills  and  vales, 
on  the  woods  and  waters,  of  New  England,  '  This 
is  my  own,  my  native  land ! '  " 

Already  Longfellow  had  written  poems  not 
unworthy  of  his  later  fame.  The  charms  of  the 
scenery — of  the  river,  the  sea,  and  of  the  woods, 
whose  voice  greets  each  in  impartial  fondness  ■ 
had  made  Brunswick  more  to  him  than  the  seat  of 
a  college.  He  was  even  then  a  "  native  writer," 
and  American  literature  was  soon  to  feel  the  im- 
pulse which  his  Commencement  oration  predicted, 
though  he  was  too  modest  to  dream  that  the 
prophet  was  to  make  his  own  foretelling  true. 


INGERSOLL  AND  WHITMAN. 


BY  SCOTT  F.  HERSHEY,  PH.D.,  WASHINGTON,  D.  C. 


The  advocate  for  the  unrestrained  circulation  of 
impure  literature  has  posed  in  his  self-conceit  at 
the  bier  of  Walt  Whitman,  where,  as  is  his  cus- 
tom, he  indulges  in  religious  ridicule.  Were  not 
the  entire  proceedings  an  exhibit  of  low  material- 


77 
ism,  characteristic  of  both  the  orator  and  the 
poet?  It  was  proper,  I  suppose,  that  Ingersoll 
should  have  been  there.  Like  Whitman,  he  is  a 
low  sceptic  and  hazy  agnostic.  Like  Whitman, 
he  is  an  apostle  of  animalism,  and  has  no  appar- 
ent conception  of  the  spiritualism.  As  Whitman, 
he  is  erratic  and  indefinite.  It  was  a  proper  place 
for  Ingersoll. 

I  have  been  waiting  for  time — which  I  only 
had  yesterday — to  critically  examine  the  writings 
of  Whitman.  My  impression  is  much  like  that 
of  Swinburne,  that  "Whitman  had  flashes  of 
something  occasionally  like  genius,  expressed  in 
something  occasionally  like  English."  I  note  the 
generally  low  poetic  marks  of  his  writings.  He 
had  little  of  the  fire,  and  less  of  the  genius  of  tbe 
poet.  Only  now  and  then,  mostly  a  line  at  a 
time,  he  seems  to  reach  up  to  something  poetic  in 
feeling,  thought  and  language.  Prevailing  every- 
where there  is  a  bewildering  indefiniteness,  and  a 
tiresome  jingle  of  parallelisms.  I  know  of  no 
poet  whose  lines  are  so  hard  to  understand.  I 
defy  any  man  to  have  a  clear  understanding,  page 
after  page,  of  his  longest  poem.  Hi«  thought  is 
a  muddle,  and  his  style  is  woefully  inconsecutive. 
I  have  a  serious  opinion  that  his  popularity  was 
owing  to  his  moral  looseness  of  thought  rather 
than  to  any  ability  he  had  as  a  poet  In  Ameri- 
can literature,  his  name  will  be  dropped  in  less 
than  a  score  of  years.  He  has  never  touched  the 
hearts  of  men,  without  which  no  man  can  be  a 
poet.  The  only  honor  which  attaches  to  his 
memory  is  that  which  belongs  to  him  for  his 
helpful  services  in  the  hospitals  during  the  war. 

It  is  to  be  remembered  that  Whitman  is  the 
sceptical  poet  of  America.  And  in  this  sense  he 
properly  belongs  to  the  French  school  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century.  He  has  not  expressed  one  clear 
religious  sentiment  in  all  his  writings.  It  is  not 
even  certain  what  he  means  by  religion  in  the 
few  instances  he  uses  the  word.  As  to  whether 
he  believed  in  a  future  life  he  did  not  even  know 
himself.     In  one  instance  he  says  that  there 

"  Never  will  beany  more  perfection  than  there  is  now, 
Any  more  heaven  or  hell,  than  there  is  now." 

He  seems  to  hint  at  Pantheism : 

"  Was  somebody  asking  to  see  the  soul? 
See!    Your  own  shape  and  countenance — persons, 
Substances,  beasts,  the  trees,  running  rivers,  the  rocks 
and  sands." 

He  slurs  the  Christ,  while  he  glorifies  the  lowest 
habits  of  life. 

Whitman  agrees  with  all  sceptical  writers  in 
supreme  self-conceit,  and  an  exaltation  of  self. 
He  says  that 

"  Nothing,  not  God,  is  greater  than  one's  self." 

Egotism  is  almost  made  in  him.     As 

"'I  sat  studying  at  the  feet  of  the  great  masters; 
Now,  O  that  tbe  great  masters  might  return  and 


study  met" 

He  draws  this  crazy  picture  of  self-praise: 

••Walt  Whitman  am  I,  of  mighty  Manhattan  the 
son, 
Turbulent,  fleshy  and  sensual,  eating  and  drinking, 

and  breeding, 
I  dote  on  myself." 

It  is  worth  while  to  remark  that  this  is  typical 
of  sceptical  thinkers.  I  am  not  able  to  name  a 
angle  sceptical  writer  that  was  graced  with  the 
least  discoverable  trait  of  humility.  All  of  them 
are  disgustingly  self-adored. 

Must  it  not  be  written  that  Whitman  is  the  poet  of 
the  animal  and  the  sensual  ?  He  was  an  advocate 
of  immorality,  as  all  infidels  are.  He  had  no 
sense  of  shame  and  rather  boasted  of  it     He  is 


78 


the  poet  of  the  back-yard,, and  the  refuse  heap. 
His  poems  have  the  seal  of  the  sensual  upon 
them.  Not  a  line  did  he  write  in  defence  of  the 
chaste  and  virtuous.     He  says: 

"1  believe  In  the  flesh  and  the  appetites, 
.  I  think  I  could  turn  and  live  with. the  animals,  they 
are  so  placid  and  eelf-oontained, 
They  do  not  lie  down  in  the  dark  and  weep  for  thels 
Sins;  '      ijj 

They  do  not  make  me  sick  discussing  their  duty  to 
God." 

.  I  know  of  nothing  so  low  and  indecorous.  I 
could  make  quotations  no  paper  in  the  land  would : 
print  In  an  honest  moment  he  determined  his 
own  low  level:  "I  bequeath  myself  to  the  dirt/' 

Let  him  remain  there. 


HITMAN  AT  REST, 


JNEftAL  OF  THE  DEAD  POET  IN 
CAMDEN  CITY  YESTERDAY. 
fljU-    ' — A/ftA> 

ttLOMTHENT    PEOPLE    PRESENT 
M**.  31  gib 

ADDRESSES  AT  THEiTOMB  IK  HAS* 

LEIGH  CEMETERY. 


TRIBUTES  OF  RESPECT  OFFERED 


ID  THOUSAND  PSOPLI  YIEW  TEE 
\i  .,  REMAINS  IN  TWO  HOURS.  ,  . 

RulK.  'fjA'/y\*M*l  I,  ■■'  i 

,  'Probabl  y  nor  at  before  has  thore  bean  such 
t  gathering  of  distinguished  men  In  We 
rorld  of  lettora  In  Camden.  *•  assembled 
resterdrty  to  pay  tbelr  last  tribute  or  reapeet 
O  the  dead  poet,  Walt  Whitman,  whose  re* 
Dalai  were  placed  In  tbe  tomb  planned  by 
kiraeoir.  In  iiarlslgli  Cemetery,  In  the  aftor- 
moo.  Boon  after  10 o'clock,  la  tbe  morning 
people  beg-an  to  gamer  in  tbe  vicinity  of  tbe 
tumble  homo  of  tbe  old  poet,  Mo.  XSMiokle 
t,  walling  for  tbe  doors  to  be  thrown 
that  tbejr  might  take  a  last  look  of 
e  whose  faee  and  form  bad  been  tor  many 
ao  familiar  to  the  citizens  of  Camden. 
i   It  wosnot  until  10.46  that  Flihlan  B.  Blm- 

Sons,  the  fnnoral  director  la  charge,  gave 
a  order  to  open  tbe  doors,  and  from  that 
Stour  dntll  1.80  there  waa  a  continual  stream 
*t  men,  woman  and  oblldron  passing 
through  tbe  little  parlora  around  tbo  caaket 
Containing  tbe  remain*  of  the  old  bard. 
■v  The  eaakel  waa  of  heavy  English  quartered 
"Mr,  witli  oxidised  trimmings,  with  tbe 
Iption  •  •  Walt- Whitman,"  In  English 
>xt,  on  the  lid. 
The  eaakel  was  placed  In  tbe  baek  parlor 
ibd  was  literally  covered  wltb  floral  em- 
tlemi  of  various  designs,  sent  by  admiring 
xrlends  from  all  parta  of  tbe  country.  A 
somber  of  deslgna  were  deposited  on  tables, 
while  others  were  arranged  at  tbe  bead  and 
also  at  the  foot  Of  tbe  casket.   Tbe  body  waa 

greased  in  his  familiar  salt  of  gray,  and, 
htio  the  features  were  greatly  emaciated, 
et  to  those  Wbo  knew  htm  In  life,  tbe  race 
In  death  presented  a  natural  appearance,  as 
tboegb  be  had  sank.  Into  a  deep  sleep. 

fc Among  tbe  floral  emblems  were  pieces 
Om  Alcbard  Watson  Glider,  Mrs.  Richard 
j*/atsoa  Ullder,  Edmund  Clarence  Sled- 
man,  John  H.  Johnson,    John   Whitman 


Wilder.  I.  D.  Hyltoo,  F.  8.  81mmons,  Prof. 
Geoffrey  Buck  waiter;  wreath  of  rosea  from 
-the  Whitman  Circle,  Bolton,  England  (or- 
dered by  cable);  wreath  of  Ivy  from  Mrs. 
FniretHid,  of  Boston  j  wreath  of  white  and 
pick  roses  from  friends  in  California  (or- 
dered by  telegraph);  wreath  of  ivy  and  vio- 
lets from  T.  B.  Aldrtch,  of  Boston;  bouquet 
from  Fnlaer  McKliisey,  of  Maryland,  with 
.the  following  note: 

i  "  Hokacr  Thaubkl,  Esq.  ;  Dear  Sir— 
B«I  have  taken  tho  liberty  to  Oudress 
to  you  this  little  box  or  flowers  for  Walt 
Whitman's  coffin.  The  fern  and  aprlgs 
•t  myrtle  are  from  the  grave  or  Franklin 
Soott,  In  Ml  .Olivet  Cemetery,  In  this  olty— 
the  poet  or  American  patriotism— lor  the 
grave  or  the  poet  or  American  Democracy. 

•  -The  tribute  is  a  modest  one,  bat  It  eomee 
from  one  ot  Mr.  Whitman's  'boys'— one 
who  whs  a  tow  years  ago  as  close  to  him  as 
anybody,  and  wbo  holds  very  dear  tbe 
memory  or  bis  friendship  with  tbe  great- 
hearted man.  Please  be%klmt  enough  to 
give  tbe  little  bunch  o(  flowers  ao  humble 
piaoe  among  the  inaay  richer  and  mora 
elaborate  tributes  that  will  no  doubt  be 
seen." 

\  Accompanying  tbo  wreath  of  Ivy,  from 
Edmund  Clarence  Btedinan,  was  the  fol- 
towing  farewell: 

GOOD  BTE,  WALT! 

Good-bye,  you  loved  from  all  yon  loved  oi 

earth- 
Bock,   tree,    dnmb    oreatare,    man    and 

woman—   - 
To  you  their  comradeship  human. 

Tbe  last  assault 
Ends  now,  and  now  in  some  great  world  has 
:■     birth 

A  minstrel,  whose  strong  soul  finds  broader 
i      wlugs, 

f.       More  brave  Imaginings. 
Stars  orowu  tbe  hill-top  where  your  dost 

shall  be, 
Eveu  as  wo  any  good-bye. 

Good- bye,  old  Walt  I 
\  At  1.30  o'clock  over 8000  people  had  passed 
through  tbe  bouse  and    viewed  tho    re- 
mains, and  tbe  doors  were  then  closed  to 
the  general  public 
,  At  the  Tomb. 

At  120  the  Inneral  cortege  started  for  tbe 
cemetery,  arriving  at'  tbe  tomb  at  about  8 
o'clock.  A  tent  had  been  erected  Just  south 
of  tbe  tomb,  where  tbe  services  were  held, 
gnd  around  this  tent  and   on   the  hillside, 

Cve  and  below   tbe  tomb,  were  gathered 
ut  30U0  people.      The  tent  poles  were 
tpped  witb  tbe  national    colors,     and 
pis  and  ferns  lined  either  aide  of  toe  paa- 
>*way  and  tbe   speakers'   platform.    Ar- 
riving at  tbe  tomb  tue  casket  was  carried  to 
tbe  centre  ot  tbe  tent,  facing  the  platform, 
followed  by  the  relatives  and  friends  or  tho 
dead  poet 


The  list  of  honorary  pall-bearers  sown  tod,' 
moat  of  whom  were  present,   Included   the 

Snowing:  Mr.  John  Burroughs, Mr.  Homes 
oward  Furness,  Mr.  J.  H.  Johnson,  Mr. 
Lincoln  U  Eyre,  Mr.  Julian  Hawthorne. 
Mr.  Georgo  W.  Cbllds,  Judge  O.  a.  Garri- 
son. ex-Senator  A.  G.  Cattell,  Mr.  Thomas 
Donald  sou.  Mr.  Francis  Howard  Williams, 
Mr.  J.  H,  Stoddart,  Mr.  H_  Talentt  WU. 
Hams.  Mr.  H.  U  Bonsall,  Mr.  T.  B.  Horned. 
Mr.  H*,rt  k  Trsabel,  Dr.  Baufce,  Roy. 
4.  H.  ci l (lord,  Dr.  Daplel  G.  Brtutou,  Mr. 
Harrison  a.  Morris,  Mr.  Julias  Chambers, 
Mr.  Edmund  c.  Stedmon  and  Mr.  Thomas 
■aklns. 

f  The  Services. 

a  The  services  were  commenced  by  Mr. 
Jrranels  Howard  Williams,  who  rand  Bert p- 
taral  selections  and  extroeta  from  Whit- 
man's poems. 

LMr.  Bsrasd'i  Address. 
Tbe  opening  address  was  roado  by  Thomas 
,  Uerned,  Esq. ,  or  Oamdea,  W  hitman's 
friend  and  1  gal  adviser.    He  soldi 
•    "We  have  come  bure  to-day  to  entomb  the 
body  or  Walt  Whitman.     We  do  not  come 
%n>adness.    Tbe  great  singer  of  death  and 
\xn  lortalif  would  have  us  utter  only  words 
o<  >y.   We  wbo  have  been  the  personal  wtv 
««  es  or  nis  dally  life  bnve  no  right  to  bo 
g\  t.    In  tbe  preseuoe  of  death  It  becomes 
sttUuty  to  give  tesUmocy  to  tbo  oonsUt- 

otonimiish. 

••I  am  charged  with  the  spedtal  dnty  to 

apeak  for  this  olty,  lu  which  he  bad  lived  for 
many  years.     Uo  came  to  Camden  In  1878 
poor,    paralyzed    and  sick.      He   bad   no 
thoucbt  then  that  bis  Hie  would   be  pro- 
longed.     Me  had  given  his  best  years  to  tbo 
nursing  of  soldiers.    No  tongue  can  tell  the 
extent  of  that  ministry.      With  untiring 
fidelity  he  served  bis  country.    The  history 
or  the  war  presents  no  Instance  or  nobler, 
fulfilment  of  duty    or  subllmer  000*11100. 
The  stalwart  physique    broke    under  tbe 
terrible  strain,  and  this  man  cams  among 
las    to    spend   bis  last  days.       For     morel 
I  than    17    years    he     has     been    a    fami- 
liar    figure.      Daring     l.ieso     tons;     years 
or    suffering     no    one     bos    ever    heard 
him  uttcro  word  or  complaint.    We  know 
ol  bis  gentleness,    bis  charity,   nts  wisdom, 
simplicity,    his  inspiring  and  cheery  voice, 
his  oiajesilc  and  venerable  figure,  bis  strong 
sua  clusslc  face,  cost  In  on  antique  mould. 
Wu   have   seen    hlni  on  our  streets,   or   fre- 
quenting tho  ferrv  boats, or  driving  over  tbo. 
neighboring  roads.    His  companions  bnve 
been  from  every  walk  of  Hie,  more  especially 
amonc  the  poor  and  humble.    He  has  token 
a  personal  interest  in  tbo  welfare  of  me- 
chanic*, deck-hands,  car-drivers  and  other 
sons  ot  toll.    Ho  was  tbo  friend  of  children, 
and  they  all  loved  him.    Although  persons  j 
01  eminence  In  literary  and'  public  lis*  paid  j 
him  homage,   bo  cored  more  for  (sweater*  ' 
j  panlonsbip  01  tho  common  people. 


•  •A  predominant  trail  of  his  character  was 
gratltnde,  aud  It  is  because  of  h Is  personal 
request  to  me  that  I  speak  to-day  to  return 
die  tbanks  to  tbe  people,  especially  of  Cam- 
den, for  their  many  acta  or  kindness  while 
he  has  been  one  of  It*  horrible  ollleens. 
•Don't  forget,'  be  said,  <to  say  thanks, 
thanks,  thauks.' 

•  ■  Year  by  year  be  grew  feebler,  and  his 
ability  to  walk  lessened,  until  at  Inst  be 
could  not  leave  tbe  house;  bnt  bis  ability  to 
work,  bis  serene  faith,  bis  Joyous  coo  rage 
never  laltered  or  lessened.  Ilia  tenacity  of 
purpose  never  weakened.  No  one  could 
delect  any  Intellectual  sluggishness  or  tbe 
timidity  of  age.  Uls  keen  Insight  and  olear 
vision  never  failed  him. 

•  ■I  deem  It  my  doty  to  mention  two  Im- 
portant facta:  one,  bis  positive  belief  inim. 
mortality,  and  tbe  other  bis  fearlettneu  of 
death. 

•  •With  him  Immortality  was  not  a  hope 
or  a  bean  tiful  dream.  He  believed  that  be 
lived  In  an  eternal  universe,  and  tbat  man 
was  as  Indestructible  as  bis  Creator.  Ilia 
views  of  religion  have  been  misunderstood. 
He  was  tolerant  of  tbe  opinions  of  others, 
and  recognized  tbe  good  In  nil  religious  sys- 
tem*, ills  philosophy  was  wlthoot  tbe  limi- 
tation of  a  creed,  and  Included  tbe  best 
thought  of  every  age  and  clime." 

Address  of  Or.  Hrlnton. 
Dr.  Daniel  O.  Brlnton,  of  Philadelphia, 
said:  « -Friends  of  tbe  dead,  comrade* 
and  lovers  or  him  wbo  has  left  us.  We 
meet  to  bid  farewell  to  blm  whose  lite 
and  thoughts  have  forged  the  bonds  between 
Us.  We  feared  tbat  In  midwinter  be  would 
bave  been  taken  from  us,  but  he  abided 
until  tbe  flowers  of  spring  bave  come  to 
deck  his  sepulchre,  and  ontll  tbe  leaves  of 
grass  typical  to  bis  soul  of  the  mystlo  energy 
of  nature  stretch  out  toward  bis  tomb, 

•  •No  Idler  wus  he;  no  dalller  with  tbe  golden 
hours;  but  arduous,  contention*  and  Infi- 
nitely loving.  Ue  came  bearing  the  burden 
of  a  Gospel,  tbe  Gospel  or  the  Individual 
Man.  He  came  teaching  that  the  soul  Is  not 
more  than  tbe  body,  and  tbat  tbe  body  Is 
not  more  than  the  soul;  and  tbat  nothing, 
not  God  himself,  Is  greater  to  one  than  one's 
aelf  Is.  He  asked  no  man  to  accept  bis 
teachings  or  become  his  disciple,  or  to  call 
blm  Mailer.  His  strong  voice  resounded 
above  the  beads  of  all  high  men  and  over 
the  roofs  of  tbe  world.  It  obaltenged 
alike  wealth  and  power,  and  want  and 
death,  proclaiming  that  mau,  tbe  one 
man,  the  Individual,  every  individual, 
baa  all  rights  and  all  powers.  Is  the  autocrat 
Of  the  world,  sole  ,rulor  of  tbe  universe— 
let  blm  only  enforoe  his  claims  and  make 
good  his  titles.  Uls  words  are  perpetual 
warnings  to  all  sects  and  syndicates,  to  all 
leagues  and  orders  which  bind  men's  minds 
or  musoles  to  tbe  bidding  ol  another,  wbicb 
make  them  slaves  In. thought  or  In  action, 
aud  a  warning  against  that  worse  and  com- 
moner bondage  to  one's  own  self,  to  Im- 
bibed traditions,  to  cultivated  fears,  to  ac- 
cepted and  self-forged  shackles. ' ' 

Kuloaised  by  Dr.  Uucke. 

Dr.  Uucke,  of  Canada,  tbe  biographer  of 
Whitman,  next  spoke.    He  said: 

••My  friends:— This  hour  and  place  will  be 
memorable  forever,  for  here  now  we  consign 
to  Its  rest  all  that  was  mortal  of  a  great 
roan— a  man  wbo  bas  graved  a  deep  marax 
on  bis  age  and  wbo  will  oat  a  yet  deeper  fur- 
row across  the  face  ot  tbe  to  tare. 

••There  Is  this  difficulty  la  speaking  about 
Wall  Whitman:  He  was  so  great,  he  stood 
so  far  apart  from,  so  far  above  other  men. 
tbat  when  one  who  knew  him  attempts  to 
depict  him  to  those  who  did  not,  there- 
porter  Inevitably  makes  such  claims  as 
cause  him  to  be  charged  with  extravagant 
exaggeration.  Mot  only  so,  bnt,  on  account 
of  tbo  greatness  and  especially  of  the  uni- 
versality of  oar  friend,  even  those  who 
lived  close  about  blm,  though  conscious  of 
romarkablo  qualities  In  the  man,  were 
almost  never  able  to  realize  In  any  adequate 
degree  the  man  himself. 

•  •Over  and  above  all  ordinary  greatness— 


79 

greatness  of  perception,  of  Intellect,  of  will, 
of  moral  qualities,  of  spiritual  exaltation 
and  illumination,  and  of  tbe  power  of  keen 
nod  accurate  expression— and  all  these  great- 
nesses and  many  more  he  had — over  and 
above  all  these  he  had  in  an  eminent  dogree 
tha't  crowning  endowment,  faculty,  qual- 
ity, or  whatever  It  may  be  called,  tbe  pos- 
session of  which  causes  a  man  to  be  picked 
out  from  tbe  rest  and  set  apart  as  an  object 
of  affection.  In  bis  own  vivid  language: 
•He  baa  the  pass  key  of  hearts,  to  him  too 
response  of  the  prying  of  hands  on  the 
knobs.' 

Address  of  Colonel  Ingersoll. 
The  closing  address  was  made  by  Colonel 
Robert  O.  Ingersoll,  lu  tbe  course  or  which  he 
said:  ''Acaln,  we,  In  the  mystery  of  Lite, 
are  brought  face  to  face  with  the  mystery  of 
Deuth.  A  great  man— a  great  American — 
the  most  eminent  citizen  of  this  Republic— is 
doud  before  us.  And  we  uavo  met  to  pay  a 
tribute  to  his  greatness  and  to  his  worth.  I 
know  that  he  needs  no  words  of  mine.  Ills 
fame  Is  secure.  lie  luid  the  foundations  of 
It  deep  In  the  human  heart.  He  was,  above 
all  that  I  have  known,  the  Poet  of  Human. 
lty,  of  Sympathy.  Great  bo  was— .»o  gnat 
that  ho  rose  above  the  greatest,  that  he 
met  without  arrogance;  and  so  grout  that 
he  stooped  to  the  lowest  without  conscious 
condoscuuslon.  Ho  nevor  claimed  to  bu 
lower  or  aroatcr  thun  any  other  of  tlo  sous 
of  men.  Ho  came  Into  our  generation  »  r ■•>••, 
untrammelled  spirit,  wltb  lymini'i  ;■  lor 
all.  Ills  arm  was  boncath  the  form  <'  I  lie 
Sick.  J li>  sympathized  wllU  tho  lmpi :  oiled 
and  despised.  And  «ven  on  the  brow  of 
crime  he  was  ureal  enough  19  plr.ee  the  kUs 
of  human  sympathy  .-UTrtr-nVihe  greatsSC 
HhWlh  drtr  llfofa'Wre  Is  bis.  fspeal;lngol 
an  outcast— and  the  line  Is  great  enough  to 
do  honor  to  the  grcmest  genius  thai  ever 
lived— ho  said : 

"  'Not  until  the  sun  oxcludes|yon  will  I  ex- 
ol tide  you.'-'.* 

"A  charity  ns  wide  as  tho  sky.  And 
wherever  thore  was  human  suffering,  human 
misfortune  the  sympathy  of  Whitman 
b*nt  above  It  as  tbe  firmament  bends  above 
this  earth. 

•  ««And  he  walked  among  men,  among 
writers,  among  verbal  vnrnlshers  and  ve- 
ncerers,  among  literary  milliners  ind 
tailors  with  the  unconscious  dignity  of  an 
antique  zod.  Ho  was  the  poet,  also,  of  that 
divine  dnmocraoy  that  gives  equal  rights  to 
all  the  sons  and  daughters  of  moo.  He  ut- 
tered tbe  great  American  voice,  uttered  a 
song  worthy  or  the  great  Ropabilc  No  man 
has  ever  said  more  for  tbe  rights  of  hu- 
man lty— more  In  favor  of  real  democracy  or 
real  Justice.  He  neither  scorned  nor  cringed 
—was  neither  tyrant  nor  slave.  He  asked 
only  to  staud  beneath  the  great  flag  of  na- 
ture, the  blue  and  tne  stars. 

••He  was  a  Poet  of  Lire.  It  wasajoy  to  blm 
simply  to  breathe.  He  loved  tbe  clouds. 
He  enjoyed  the  breath  of  morning,  tbe  twi- 
light, the  wind,  the  winding  streams.  He 
loved  to  look  at  tbe  sea  when  the  wind  and 
waves  burst  Into  the  while eapa  of  Joy.  He 
loved  the  fields,  tbe  hHls.  He  was  ac- 
quainted with  trees,  wrth  birds,  wltb  all 
tbe  beautiful  objects  on  tbe  earth.  And  he, 
saw  not  only  those  objects,  bat  understood 
their  meaning.  And  he  used  tbem  tbat  be 
might  exhibit  his  heart  to  his  fellow-men. 

•  •He  was  also  tbe  Poet  of  Love.  He  was  not 
aabamed  of  tbat  divine  passion  tbat  bas 
built  every  home  In  the  world — that  divine 
passion  tbat  has  painted  every  picture  aud 
given,  ns  every  real  great  work  of  art;  tbat 
divine  passion  that  baa  made  tbe  world 
worth  living  In  and  gives  some  value  to 
human  life. 

"Ho  was  the  Poet  of  tbe  Natural,  and 
taught  men  not  to  be  ashamed  of  that  wbloh 
la  naiural. 

•  •He  has  altered  more  supreme  words 
than  any  -Titer  cf  our  century,  and  possibly 
of  almost  any  other.  He  was,  above  all 
things,  a  man.  And  above  genius,  above 
all  the  snow-capped  peaks  of  Intelligence, 
above  all  of  art,  rises  the  true  man— greater 
than    all,    he   was   a   true   man.     And   he 


walked  amongst  his  fellow  men  as  such. 

•  •lie  was  also,  as  bas  been  said,  tbe  Poet 
of  Death.  He  accepted  all— Lire  and  Death. 
And  be  Justified  all.  He  bad  the  courage  to 
meet  alt,  and  was  great  enough '  and  splen- 
did enough  to  harmonize  all  and, to  accept 
all  there  Is  of  life  as  a  divine  melody. 

"You  know  better  than  I  what  bis  life  has 
been.  But  let  mesay  one  thing.  Knowing, 
as  bo  did,  wbat  others  can  know  and  what 
they  cannot,  be  accepted  and  absorbed  all 
theories,  all  creeds,  all  religions,  and  be- 
lieved in  none.  Hie  philosophy  was  a  sky 
that  embraced  all  cloud*  and  accounted  rbr 
all  cioodsk  He  bad  a  philosophy  and  a  re- 
ligion of  his  own,  broader,  as  be  believed— 
and  as  I  believe— than  others.  He  accepted 
all.  Ue  absorbed  all.  And  be  was  above  all. 
He  was  true  absolutely  to  himself.  He  baa 
frankness,  courage,  and  he  was  as  candid  as 
light.  He  was  willing  that  all  the  son*  of 
men  should  be  absolutely  acquainted  wltb 
bis  heart)  and  brain,  He  bad  notblng  to 
conceal.  Frank,  candid,  pare,  serene, 
noble.  And  for  years  and  years  he  w«* 
maligned  and  slandered  simply  because  he 
had  tbe  candor  of  nature.  He  will  toe  under- 
stood yet,  and  tbat  for  which  be  was  con- 
demned—tbat  Is,  bis  frankness,  bis  candor 
—will  add  to  tbe  glory  and  greatness  of  bis 
fame.  He  wrote  a  liturgy  roc  humanity.  Ue 
wrote  a  great  and  splendid  psalm  of  life. 
Ana  be  gave  to  us  the  gospel , or  humanity 
—the  greatest  gospel  that  can  be  preached— 
the  gospel  of  humanity. 

•  •He  was  not  afraid  to  live;  not  afraid  to 
apeak  his  thought.  N either  was  be  afraid 
to  ale.  For  many  years  he  and  Death  lived 
near  neighbors.  He  was  always  willing  and 
ready  to  meet. and  greet  this  thing  called 
Death.  And  lor  many  months  he  sat  In  tbe 
deepening  twilight  watting  for  the  night— 
waiting  lor  tbe  light.  In  his  brain  were  the 
blessed  memories  of  tbe  day;  and  In  bis 
heart  were  mingled  tbe  dawn  and  dusk  of 
life.  He  was  not  afraid— cheerful  every 
moment,  tbe  laughing  nymphs  of  tbo  day  did 
not  desert  blm.  Tbey  remained  tbat  tbey 
mlgntclaap  tbe  band  of  the  veiled  and  silent 
slaters  of  tbe  night  when  tbey  should  come. 
And  wben  they  did  come,  Walt  Whitman 
stretched  bU  hands  to  both— one  on  one  side 
the  nymphs  of  day,  on  tbe  other  tbe  silent 
sisters  or  the  night.  And  so,  band  In  band, 
between  smiles  and  tears,  he  reaohed  bis 
Journey's  end..  Prom  the  frontier  of  Hie; 
from  tbe  western  wave-Kissed  shore,  he  sent 
us  messages  of  content  and  hope.  And  those 
messages  seem  now  like  strains  of  moslo 
blown  by  the  mystlo  Trumpeter  from  Death's 
pale  realm. 

To-day  we  give  baok  to  Mother  Nature,  to 
her  clasp  and  kiss, one  of  the  bravest,  sweet- 
est souls  tbat  ever  lived  In  human  clay, 
charitable  as  the  air  and  generous  as  na- 
ture—negligent ol  all  except  to  do  and  say 
what  he  believed  he  should  do  and  should 
say.  And  1  to-day  thank  him,  not  only  for 
you  but  lor  myself,  tor  all  the  brave  word* 
he  has  uttered.  I  thank  htm  to-day  for  all 
the  great  and  splendid  words  he  baa  said  In 
favor  ot  liberty,  in  favor  of  man  and 
woman.  In  lavor  of  motherhood,  in 
favor  of  fathers,  In  favor  of  children. 
And  I  thank  htm  for  tbe  brave  words  be  has 
said  on  the  subject  of  Death.  Blnee  be  baa 
lived  Death  la  less  fearful  than  He  waa<  be- 
fore, and  thousands  and  million*  will  walk 
down  into  the  dark  Valley  of  tbe  Shadow 
holding  Walt  Whitman  by  tbe  band,  long 
after  we  are  dead.  Tbe  brave  words  be  bu 
spoken  will  sound  like  trampeu  to  tbe  dy- 
ing. 

•  -And  so  1  lay  this  poor  wreath  upou  this 
great  mau's  tomb.  I  loved  htm  living  and 
I  leve  him  still." 

Soma  of  Those  Present. 
Among  those  present  at  tbe  funeral  wen 
Professor  Felix  tsohelllng,  William  Walsh, 
Horace  Howard  Furnesa,  Proiesaor  J.  K 
Capen,  Mr.  Cuider  Johnston  and  Mtsa  May 
Johnston,  ol  New  York;  Miss  Helen  Price  and 
Mrs.  Young,  of  New  York;  Dr.  Emily  Ingram, 
William  Ingram, Herbert  A. Drake,  Melville 
Philips,  H.  C.  Walsu,  Mayor  J.  L.  We*t- 
colt.  Hon.  Joseph  M.Kngard,  Judge  Charles) 


Q,  Garrison.  Jobn  Borroogbs,  lit.  R.  M. 
Bucite,  Herbert  H.  Giicurlsl,  Ptrotval 
CbubO,  Tboiaua  B.  Hamed,  J.  M.  t*toa« 
dard,  Wra.  Hi  can  Kennedy,  Hamitu  Oar- 
:anc.  Dr.  Dunlel  U.  Brlnton,  Horace  U' 
Traubel,  Sa'nael  Loag,  H.  I*  Bonaell,  Ar- 
thur Bteaduiun,  Judge  William  tiajdou, 
Taicoti  wiuiuiuB,  jdiiu*  Chambers,  Jobs, 
H.  Jubnatou  aud  duugbter,  of  New  Torkt 
Mum:ure  D.  Conway,  of  New  York;  Mrs/ 
Hot"  it  O.  lugeraoll,  George  DeB.  Ktim, 
Kpt.  8.  H.  Uaun,  Iter.  Q.  U.  Hunger,  Alex- 
ur-iiorMeAUMer,  M.  P.,  William  A.  Huh 
tec 

Wn  vTrvEK  placa  posterity  rosy  give  tiJ 
Wait  W'hittnuii  in  the  realm  of  poetry^ 
tin-  tribute"  paid  *o  his  memory  at  his 
ftp«n  T'tvr  yf-tdxl.iy  nr*  evidence  that. lid 
hail  rntliriiied  himself  in  many  hearts? 
Jt  i"  t," >"-•')  to  leave  (be  world  thus  lores? 
grid  honurst" 

Does  the  world  contain  more  thin  one 
Wayside  Inn?  Surely  not  for  that  large 
number  of  its  English  readers  who  hare 
listened  with  the  poet  Longfellow  to  the  tales 
of  the  student,  the  Sicilian,  the  Spanish 
Jew  and  the  musician.  For  us  the  Way- 
ride  Inn  is  in  Sudbury  town,  Massachusetts, 
npon  the  old  road  from  Boston  to  Worcester, 
snd  we  know  that  it  is  a  veritable  old  tavern 
of  rafters  and  clapboards,  and  not  a  habita- 
tion built  merely  by  the  poet's'  fancy. 

"As  ancient  to  this  hostelry 
At  any  in  the  land  may  be; 
Built  in  the  old  eolonhU  C 
When  men  lived  In  a j 
With  ampler  hospital!  . . 
A  kind  of  old  Hobgoblin  Hall, 
Now  somewhat  fallen  to  decay, 
"With  weather  stains  upon  the  wall. 
And  stsirwsys  worn,  snd  crssy  doors. 
And  creaking  and  uneven  floors. 
And  chimneys  huge,  sad  tiled,  snd  tall." 
Not  only  was  it  a  hostelry  for  man  and 
beast  many  yean  before  our  poet "  saw  his 
earthly  life,  but  also  it  is  still  a  place  where 
persons  are  hospitably  welcomed  when*  they 
come  to  examine   its  quaint  relics  of  a  time 
gone  by.    It  stands  beside  its  neighbor  oak 
trees  as  an  embodiment  of  the  *customs  of 
New  England  colonial  life,  such  as  is  rarely 
to  be  seen  lu  modern   telephonic  days,  and 
within  its  walls  one  seems  to  breathe  the  at- 
mosphere of  an  earlier  civilisation. 
•A  region  of  repose  it  seems, 
A  place  of  slumber  and  of  dreams. 
Remote  among  the  wooded  hills! 
For  there  no  noisy  railway  speeds, 
Its  torch-saee  scaUailag  smoke  snd  glesds." 

In  these  days  of  coaching  parties  a  romantic 
mind  would  wish  to  approach  it  at  least  with 
the  borrowed  associations  of  "a  coach  and 
font,"  although  the  practical  visitor  may 
find  it  quite  an  advantage  to  know  that  the 
Massachusetts  Central  Railroad  passes  not 
too  Inconveniently  near  its  region.  It  is 
almost  dally  sought  by  curious  parties,  and 
ought  to  be  made  a  history  lesson  for  happy 
children  under  the  improved  methods  of 
-object  teaching. 

Those  who  make  a  pilgrimage  to  it  during 
this  present  year  may  consider  themselves  as 
helping  to  celebrate  its  second  centennial, 
for  it  was  built  and  opened  to  the  public  as 
an  inn  during  'the  year  168C,  by  one  Howe, 
whose  coat-of-arms  still  hangs  over  the  fire- 
place in  the  great  reception  room  at  the  left 
of  the  front  door. 

'  —  "In  the  parlor,  full  In  view, 
His  coat-of-arms,  well  framed  and  glased. 
Upon  the  well  in  colon  biased; 


60 

He  beareth  gules  upon  his  shield, 
A  chevron  argent  in  the  field, 
With  three  wolfs'  heads,  and  for  the  crest  -     - 
A  Wyrern  part-per-pale  addressed 
' *"Cpon  a  helmet  barred;  below  ■  :  v 

The  scroll  reads,  'By  the  name  of  Howe.'  " 

For  one  hundred  and  seventy-five  year*  the 
Wayside  Inn  was  kept  as  a  public  house  Jay 
the  descendants  of  this  old  Howe  of  ancient 
and  honorable  ancestry,  the  hist  landlord 
being  the  one  whom  Longfellow  describes 
a»—' 

"Grave  in  his  aspect  and  attire, 
A  man  of  ancient  pedigree, 
A  Justice  of  the  peace  was  he,  . 
Known  in  aU-Sudbury  as  'the  Squire.'  " 

Even  now  the  house  is  owned  by  members 
of  the  Howe  family,  two  ladies,  and  its  pres- 
ent occupants,  their  tenants,  keep  it  open,to 
the  public  in  so  far  that  they  cordially  wel- 
come visitors,  whom  they  allow  to  see  the 
Whole  of  its  great  extent,  and  whom  they 
provide  with  facilities  for  heating  and  eating, 
any  lunches  which  they  may  choose  to  bring. 
The  reception  room  contains  long  tables  and 
benches  for  the  accommodation  of  such  pic- 
nicking guests. 

This  used  to  be  the  Inn  parlor,  and  has  an 
antique  wall  paper  whose  lilac-tinted  groups 
of  figures  represent  scenes  from  the  story 
of  Diana.'  It  is  pleasant  to  imagine  how 
many  poets  —  either  makers  of  verse  or 
poets  by  mood  alone  — may*  have  been 
fascinated  by  those  purple  DlafCaa  gazing 
down  enraptured  upon  those  \.  purple 
Xndymions,  and  may  have  woven  them  into 
dreams  of  sylvan  .beauty  or  ethereal  bliss 
after  coming  in  from  woods  afiotinemlows 
worthy  to  be  the  hunting  fields  of  'rhe  ath- 
letic goddess,  while  they  sat  befjire  warm 
flames  In  that  generous  fireplace ;  although, 
by  the  way,,  we  cannot  well  conceive  of 
Diana  as  hunting  in  a  land  and  season  where 
Ares  were  necessary. 

Hear  the  visitors'  book  in  this  room  are  to 
be  seen,  carefully  framed,  the  two  panes  of 
fc-h*"  "**»     .  \*  ;_-    . 

-    "The  jovial  rhymes  that  rtill  remain, 
— .  Writ  near  a  century  ago 

By  the  sisal  Major  Molineauz, 
"  Wham  Hawthorne  has  immortal  made." 

H&  diamond  commemorated  the  good 
cheer  of  the  inn.  long  before  a  greater  poet 
gang  its  fame.  "Win.  Molineaux,  Jr.,  Esq., 
Tune  24th,  1774,"  Is  neatly  inscribed  upon  one 
of  the  small  panes  of  glass  in  a  running,  al- 
beit somewhat  scratchy,  hand ;  and,  upon 
the  otter,  his  verse  not  only  expresses  his 
smtisfaction  with  the  wine  of  the  house,  but 
also  gives  us  the  assurance  that  the  tavern, 
whose  name  in  full  helps  out  his  rhymes, 
never  needed  the  fostering  of  new  titles  to 
whs-  it  regard,  bat  was  then,  as  now,  the 
Wag-aide  Inn. 

The  large  front  room  on  the  right  -of  the 

—  —  •        Z   '        —  t£.~        m      ■'-  * 

entrance   was    toe    owlnsay   reoep- 

room,  and  from  dt  stairs  •eeeended 
^ for.:  the  ^accj^nnJbdation  of  the 
b,  who  slept-IEogether  in  a  common. 
apartment  overhead. «'  It  baa  even  an 
elder  aspect  than  the  pat-lot  opposite,  all  the 
rafters  being  left  exposed,  and  showing  not 
easy  fSs  great  cross  beams,  but  also  she 
smaller  transverse  ones  of  the  celling.  Here 
to  the^nmrbaj,"  so  called,  to  which  wtth  its 
high  swinging  gatewbver  .the  counter  the 
qualifying  adjeetite  would,  seem  very 
strangely  applied  if  adjoining  it  were  not 
the  "Old  bar"  connected  with  the  dining- 
room  at  the  back  of  (the  house,  from  which  it 
to  separated  by  qneerly   constructed  doors 


thft  jdivide  and  fedtvide,  swinging  partly 
across  and  partly  up  to  the  ceiling  in  what 
to  termed  old  English  style.  Thto  "old  bar" 
woald  make  a  grand  text  for  a  temperance 
feature,  a*  in  its  dim  corner  the  orator  might 
point  to  those  two  feet  of  wooden 
wall  all  honeycombed  and  broken  away 
by  thrusts  of  the  awl  with'  which 
corks  were  removed  from  bottles  before  the 
days  of  the  imbiber's  great  friend— a  cork- 
screw. "What  hurried  oidera.murf  have 
made  those  oMen  bar-tenders  dash  their  awl 
into  the  panel  above  their  heads,  to  await  a 
next  demand !  And  what  an  Incomputable 
number  of  corks  must  have  been  drawn 
from  innumerable  bottles  before  those  pits 
and  seams  were  stablied  Into  this  section  of 
woodwork!  We  can  at  least  be  thankful 
that  the  custom  of  drinking  does  not  now 
enter  into'every  home  and  almost  every  occa- 
sion of  life,  as  it  did  in  those  old  days  t  and 
so  we  can  give  an  pptimtotio  tarn  to  our  tem- 
perance lecture.     * 

The  Wayside  "Cnn  preserves  for  us 
signs  of  many  pother  customs  betides 
the  questionable,  one*  of  drinking.  In 
the  rear  of  the  house,  and  shut  off 
from  the  rest  of  it  by  a  gate  across  the  chief 
hall,  to  the  old  family  sitting-room,  with  its 
high  iaantlej>iece,  and  some  quaint  old  wall 
paper*  again.  There  ne>  may  see  a  china 
plate— one  of  those  "best"  ones  saved  for 
company  in  the  days  when  the  family  ate 
from  pewter.  The  old  kitchen  shows  its 
crane  and  brick  oven,  and  greatlron  pot  for 
a  constant  supply  of  hot  water;  and  all  .the 
outside  doors  of  the  house  stilly  have  the 
the.  wvxHierr4>ars  and  iron  sockets  with  which 
kB|*xgrJ±Tacefi  at  night.  In  the  attic  is  a 
remind*?  of  the  old  warfare  with  the  In- 
dians, aftbough-wirhout  an  exphtnation^Dae 
would  net  "comprehend  that  the  strips  M 
wood  over  theseams  of  the  floor  in  one  room 
were  put  there  ato/ keep  grain  from  fall- 
ing through  into  Jthe  room  below,  and*  that 
the  g$in,  was  brought  there  in.-  or- 
der to  be^  safe  from  Indians.  An- 
other attic  room  contains  a  queer  little 
high  bunk  to  be  reached  by  a  ladder,  in 
which  a  dwarf  negro  used  to  sleeps-one  of 
the  last  slaves  held  in  Ifasssnhiitrtfs 

But  the  pride  of  the  Wayside  Inn  is  the 
room  in  which  once  slept  Lafayette— that 
friend  of  our  country  who,  like  its  Father,— 
seems  to  have  had  more  nights  In  a  year  than 
fall  to  the  lot  of  ordinary  mortals.  When 
the  sceptic  inquires  as  to.  the  history  of  this 
particular  night's  sinmbeirt  be  to  told  about 
an  old  man  now  living  in  Mart  borough  whose 
father  was  a  blacksmith  In*  that  town  and  shod 
Lafayette's  horse  when  be  was  on  his  way 
j  from  Boston  to  "Worcester,  and  after  he  had 
spert  that  night  in  the  Wayside  Inn,  which 
l  gave  special  honor  to  its  best  guest  cham- 
ber at  the  head  of  its  chief  stairway; 
:A»  far  as  possible' *in^Bfjse  times,  the 
room  must  have  bef^  considered  worthy 
of  its  guest;  It  )vm  an  tfpen  fire-place— 
a  painted  wooden  floor,  npon  which  the  re- 
mains of  a  set  pattern,  la  shades  of  brows*, 
are  still  visible,  and  a  vary  curious- wnD- 
paper,  whose  delicate  arabesque  suggests 
some  of  our  modernJjesthetic  designs.  Tout 
IBassfc.  sjii  jaill' 
!  feet  square,  niceaj "jciSSoTtogether,  the  art  of 
1  printing  upon  roOa^ao\havlng  been  invented 
at  the  time  it  was', 
!    If  a  "history  of  civiUxation  were  to  he  based 


npen  the . development  of  window-lighting, 
the  Waysiua  Inn. wcnnd.  show  two  -stages 
about  ball-way  in  the  succession,  "beginning 
wtth  bo  windows,  anjl  followed  by  open 
hole*,  to  be  closed  only  by  shatters ;  round 
windows,  wtth  clumsy  bull's-eyes;  small 
windows,  with  sneetx«fe£.  isinglass,  such  as 
are  still  preserved  from  some  of  our 
early  houses;  and;  sa  coming  down  to 
the  single  plates  oV  heavy  glass  in 
bur  city  palaces.  The.  first  windows 
of  the  "Wayside  InnOiad  ibroad,  hand-made 
sashes,  trhqgj  size  oor^yJm|e  proportion  to 
that  of  the  tiny,  dull  panes  of  glass  which 
they  held.  In  the  lower  halves  of  the  win- 
dows these  sashes  wereveplaced  many  years 
ago  by  others  of  a  lighter  make,  although 
still  containing  the  numerous  small  panes 
which  we  affect  in  ou*  modern  old-fashioned 
house*;  and  thus  work  of  the  two>  periods 

^  be  seta  together.  That,  the  Wayside  Inn 
;  means  enough  of  dighting  according  to 
its  time  became  evident  to  one  observer,  who 
mads  a  journey  all  acound  the  outside  of  its 
main  building  and  t4M*large  wings,  to  And 
by  actual  count  that  u  has  eighty-one  win- 
dows between  the  grc4bd"line  and  .the  ridge 
of  its  gambrel  roof.    t  "'•  m, 

The  second  floor  of  <»he  of  tb?  wings  is  en- 
tirely -a  dawning  baMLwhkk,is  Jpoken  of 
almost  with  contcnrptjs  quite'  "new,"  hav- 
ing been  built  onty  sJXty-elght^  years.  Its 
smooth  floor  Is  even  new  often  trod  by  whirl- 
ing feet,  and  a  "kid  glove"  party  was  among 
its  recent  festivities, ''though  unusual  there 
in  its  elegance.  The  'old  dancing  ball  ad- 
joining it  in  the  main  building,  and  now 
used  as  an  ante-room ',  must  have  witnessed 
many  scenes  of  colonial  mirth  and  pictur- 
esque attire,  even  if  It  eould  not  boast  of  a 
kid-gloved  assemblage.  It  warms  the  heart 
even  now  to  think?  of  .those  gatherings  of 
young  people  from  all  the  country  round, 
coming  on  their  winter  sleighing  parties,  or 
their  summer  moonttght  drive*. 

So,  too,  it  quickc  A  the  humae  sympathies 
to  stand  J 

"Under  the  great  oaks  that  throw 
Tangles  of  lijht  and  shads  below. 
On  roofs  and^qoora  sad  ■!■»■'■  ■!■," 

and  "imagine  Isaavjsuany  vehicles  of  many 
kinds  have  come  to  rest  under  their  shade  in 
all  the  days  of  two  centuries,  bringing  such 
varied  emotions  and  experiences  of  life  to 
that  one  spot,  and  receiving  a  welcome  which 
often  must  have  been  heartfelt  as  well'  as 
professional,  from  %  hospitality  which  must 
have  grown  into  ah  hereditary  impulse. 

The  old  sign  witk  the  prancing  red  horse 
no  longer  swings  at  the  bend  in  the  road, 
and  the  old*  oak  which  so  long  upheld  it  to 
the  view  of  eager  wayfarers  is  now  only 
known  by  a  crumbling  stump.  But  other 
ancestral  oaks— one  of  them  a  patriarch  with 
such  an  Immense  hollow  trunk  that  eight 
person*  have  been  known  to  stand  within  it 
at  the  same  time— still  surround  the  house 
with  a  protection,  which  lias  outlived  human 
generations.  In- leaving  their  shadow,  one 
sends  back  a  wish  that  generations  to  corae 
may  visit  the  spot  and  learn  there  something 
of  the  simplicity,  sturdascs*  and  heartiness 
which  helped  to  form  the  foundation  of  our 
country's  life  in  the  olden,  palmy  days  of  the 
■Wayside  Inn.  «.  a  t. 


81 
An  Old   Burying  Oroand. 

BT  BXV.  J.  W.  <V1  TCiaJUlCTe,  U.  D. 

On  the  19th  of  April,  1.75,  the  British  troops, 
closely  followed  by  the  heroes  of  Lexington 
and  Concord,  passed  by  the  foot  of  a  long  ridge 
in  tbe  latter  village,  on  which,  uvea  then,  was 
an  ancient  birds!  place. 

It  still  remain*,  6eldoin  used,  but  not  neglect 
ed,  with  well-worn  patbs  leading  to  seme  noted 
graves.  It  Is  essentkU'.y  unchanged for  tbe  last 
generation,  daring  the  growth  and  improve- 
ment of  the  pleasant  old  town,  many  of  whose 
honored  dead  It  holds. 

I  will  not  moralize,  though  it  is  a  suggestive 
place  to  stand  in  and  ]*ok  down  on  the- busy 
streets  which  memory  repeoples  with  the  ven- 
erated ancestors— one  of  fbem  a  hero  of  tbe 
"Concord  ngbt,"  who,  "sixty  years  since,."' so 
often  kindly  welcomed  the  little  grandchild. 

But,  in  the  character  of.  Bcott'a  "  Old  Mortal- 
ity," I  will  bring  to  light  a  few  of  the  old  In- 
scription*. 

One  is  on  white  marble,  as  follows : 

This  atone  Is  designed  by  Its  durability  to  puryu  Seats 

tbe  memory,  and  by  lu  oolor  to  repT  nasal 

tbe  moral  chaaactarof 

ABIGAIL     SUDLIT, 

who  died  AprO.  1SU. 

Another  commemorates  a  little  girl  of  IV 
"  excellent  for  her  reading  and  soberness." 
What  a  pea  picture,  at  a  single  stroke,  of  » 
prUa  and  proper  little  maidenu   Few  such  now- 
a-days. 

The  most  remarkable  inscription,  deserving 
to  be  reprinted  every  few  years,  is  that  over  the 
grave  of  a  slave  who  died  just  a  century  ago. 
It  is  a*  follows : 

God  wills  ns  free. 
Alan  wins  ns  slares. 
I  will  as  uod  wills. 
God's  will  bo  done. 

noma  tjxa  ran  boot  or 

JOHJN  JACK, 

a*aaUve  of  Africa,  who  died  In  March,  XTO. 

•  scad  ab'Wt  SO. 

Tlmeali  born  la  a  Una  of  slavery, 

U«  was  born  free. 

Tbongh  he  Uvea  bs  a  laud  of  liberty. 

He  lived  a  stave. 

Till  by  his  honest  tfio'  stolen,  labors 

He  acnlred  toe  sonros  of  slavery, 

Wnicb  gave  him  his  freedom ; 


Tho*  not  Ions  before  Deaui,  the  grand  tynsn. 
Guva  blm  bis  !*~ 
And  ss»  him  oa 


Guts  blm  bis  final  emancipation. 
footing  wtth 


Though  a  slave  to  vie* 
He  practised  taoee  virtues 

Wluaotu  which  kings  are  but  slaves. 

The  author  of  this  unique  specimen  of  en* 
ttthesls  is  unknown.  But  it  certainly  display* 
no  little  talent,  and  provos  that  the  writer  had 
thought  deeply  upon  the  anomalous  system, 
whose  entire  overthrow  within  a  century  ha 
eould  hardly  have  anticipated. 

Would  that  all  the  ancient  graveyards  In  our 
unancient  country  were  as  caiefully  kept,  and 
the  most  noticeable  epitaphs  renewed,  as  tbla' 
last  has  evidently  been,  on  fresh  stones,  before 
becoming  Illegible. 

wmrmasL 

Origin  and  Progress   of   the  Concord 
School  of  Philosophy, 


A  Little  Congress  of  Thinkers  and  Scholars. 

Topics  Discussed  at  the  Session  of 

1884— The  Procrajmmo  fa* 

K oxt  Year,  *   t  i. 

H«**r      '*** 

Special  Correspond enee  of  TBS  Pras, 

Coxcokd,  Aug.  2.—  The  sixth  year's  sessions 
of  the  "Concord  Bummer  School  of  Philoso- 
phy and  Literature"— for  that  U  the  full  title 
of  this  little  a  Diversity— closed  this  morning 
with  one  of  Pro  lessor  Harris*  most  inspiring 
lectures,  followed  with  a  lively  conversation 
upon  "Immortality,"  which  has  been  the 
topic  considered  for  the  last  thro*  day*  The 
course  of  the  school  this  Summer  bs*  been  so 
successful,  and  has  attracted  so  mueh  atten- 
tion, that  a  review  of  ita  history,  aim  and 
methods  may  be  Interesting.  Its  real  founder 
■was  Mr.  Alcott,  who,  for 'the  past  two  years, 
has  been  unable  even  to  attend  ita  sessions. 
tbongb  they  are  held  In  the  little  ehnpeA 
which  he  planned,  and  which  was  built 
ntnoug  the  trees  and  vines  be  planted  many 
years  ago,  oa  the  hillside  where  bis  "little 
women"  spent  so  much  oi  tbair  childhood  and 
youth.  This  hillside,  which  gives  lu  name 
to  tbe  chapel,  has  passed  into  the  ownership 
of  Professor  Harris,  who  has  lived  in  Mr. 
Alcott's  "Orchard  House"  for  the  last  fonr 
years,  and  has  now  purchased  it. 

Mr.  Alcott  bad  lived  there  for  more  than 
twenty  years,  and  previously  at  the  Haw- 
thorne Cottage,  near  by,  which  Hawthorne 
bought  of  Mr.  Alcott  in  1M7,  and  to  which 
bo  returned  from  Europe  in  1880,  and  occu- 
pied it  till  his  death,  in  1884.  Mr.  Alcott, 
upon  leaving  bis  "Orchard  House,"  in  1877, 
moved  into  the  house  where  Thoreau  lived 
and  died,  and  It  is  there  that  be  now  Uvea, 
an  invalid,  with  his  two  daughters  and  bis 
grandson,  at  the  age  of  85. 

wosaCAsrov  of  thx  school. 

More  than  forty  years  ago,  when  Mr.  Al- 
cott was  in  England,  be  formed  tbe  plan  of  a 
school,  or  university,  is  which  philosophy 
should  be  taught  to  a  few  selected  Pytha- 
gorean disciples;  and  to  tbla  us*  be  devoted 
the  volumes  of  tbe  Greaves  Library  (whioh 
came  into  his  possession  is  1843  upon  the 
death  of  Pestalozxl's  English  friend,  Mr.  J. 
P.  Greaves)  and  the  other  books  of  philoso- 
phy, hygiene  and  education  published  by 
blm  in  England.  This  library  was,  in  part, 
scattered  during  tbe  years  of  Mr.  Alcott's 
migration  *  from  Concord  to  Fruitland*,  to 
Boston  and  New  Hampshire;  bat  after  he 
settled  at  the  Orchard  House,  in  1807,  he 
placed  the  volume*  that  remained  in  his 
study  there,  and  it  was  in  this  pleasant  old 
room,  among  his  books,  that  the  "School  of 
Philosophy"  was  openad  in  1879  for  a  session 
of  six  weeks. 

It  soon  outgrew  thejlimltt  of  the  Orchard 
House,  and  in  1880  tbe  present  "Hillside 
Chapel"  was  built,  with  a  small  fund  pre- 
sented by  Mrs.  Eliaabath  Thompson,  or  New 
York.  .  In  1881  this  chapel  was  enlarged,  but 
Still  affords  room  for  no  more  than  150 
persons,  the  wish  of  Mr.  Alcott  and  his 
friends  being  to  keep  the  school  so  small  that 
conversation  can  easily  be  carried  on,  which  is 
not  possible  in  a  large  ball.  Occasionally  the 
Town  Hall  of  Concord  is  used  for  addresses 
.where  conversation  is  not  exported,  sad  it 
was  there  that  Mr.  Emerson  gave  before  tbe 
school  hi*  last  lecture  In  1881.  He  had  taken 
an  inverest  In  the- school  from  the  first,  aa  be 
did  in  all  Mr.  Alcott's  plans,  and  was  a  fre- 
quent listener  in  1879-'80-'81,  dying  in  1883 
before  the  session  opened.  In  that  year  the 
school  devoted  one  day  to  memorial  discourses 


and  poems  ia  honor  ot  Emerson,  and  this 
year  completed  its  tribute  to  Its  master  07 
the  fourteen  discourses  of  the  "Emerson 
Week,"  which  will  boob  toe  published  ia  a 
volume. 

TEl  rOUVDKBS'  OBJXCTS.    ' 

The  design  and  method  of  the  Concord 
Bummer  School,  \*  formed  and  arranged  by 
Mr.  Aloott,  Mr.  Emerson,  the  late  Professor 
Peiroe,  of  Harvard;  Professor  Harris  and 
Mr.  Sanborn,  war*  In  brief,  as  follows:  To 
bring  together  for  a  few  weeks,  ia  the  Sum- 
ner vacation,  those  students  ot  philosophy, 
pastry  and  science  who  had  a  common  in- 
terest in  spiritual  truth,  and  something  to 
say  to  each  other;  that  these  should  give 
written  or  oral  discourses  in  some  methodical 
arrangement— each  discourse  to  be  followed 
immediately  by  a  conversation — and  that 
such  parsons,  young  or  old,  as  wished  to  pur- 
sue the  study  of  philosophy  or  literature  in 
this  way,  should  come  into  the  school  upon 
the  payment  of  a  small  fee.  It  was  hoped  by 
Mr.  Alcott  that  this  would  lead  to  the  resi- 
dence in  Concord  of  a  n amber  of  young  per- 
sons who  should  pursue  their  studies  there, 
with  special  instructors,  throughout  the 
year;  but  this  part  of  the  plan  was  never 
carried  out. 

The  professors  do  give  lectures  and  hold 
conversations,  however,  during  the  year  at 
private  houses  in  Concord,  chiefly  before  the 
"Saturday  Club,"  which  was  founded  by 
Miss  May  Alcott  in  1877,  and  of  which  Mr. 
Alcott,  Mr.  Emerson,  Mr.  Sanborn,  Professor 
Harris,  Mr.  Emery,  Dr.  Emerson,  Mr. 
French,  the  sculptor,  and  many  others  are  or 
have  been  members.  Mr.  Emerson's  last 
public  appearance  was  before  this  club  in 
1882,  and  he  often  gave  readings  there — the 
last  ones  being  bis  paper  on  Carlyle  and  some 
reminiscences  of  Thoreau. 

The  topics  treated  by  the  School  of  Phil- 
osophy have  been  various,  and  there  have 
been  many  lectures,  but  tbose  most  promi- 
nent in  the  lectures  and  conversations  have 
been  Mr.  Alcott,  Professor  Harris,  Dr.  Jones, 
of  Illinois;  Rev.  Dr.  Holland,  of  Louisiana; 
Mr.  John  Albee,  of  New  Hampshire;  Mr. 
Denton  G.  Snider,  of  Ohio;  Miss  Elizabeth 
Peabody,  Mrs.  Che  eny  and  Mrs.  Julia  Ward 
Howe,  or  Boston;  Dr.  Bartol  and  Dr.  Andrew 
Peabody,  of  the  Unitarian  pulpit;  and 
Messrs.  F.  B.  Sanborn  and  S.  H.  Emery,  of 
Concord.  Dr.  McCosh  has  once  lecrured  be- 
fore the  school,  Colonel  Higginson  twice,  Dr. 
James,  the  Harvard  professor,  thrice,  and 
this  year  Mr.  John  Fiske,  the  American  rep- 
resentative of  Darwin  and  Herbert  Spuncer, 
S}mke  for  the  first  time.  President  Porter,  of 
Yale,  has  twice  sent  lectures  to  be  read  here, 
and  Mr.  B.  G.  Hnzard.  of  Bhode  Island,  has 
twice  lectured.  Mr.  Stedman,  the  poet,  read 
a  poem  here  in  1881,  and  his  family  have 
be«n  at  the  school  this  Bummer  for  a  few 

ifcf*         „_  mmm       JML 

Ths  audte&oo  has  come  from  almost  every 
state  in  the  Union,  and  each  year  Pennsylva- 
nia, Missouri  and  Illinois  have  born  repre- 
sented, as  well  &s Massachusetts  and  the  New 
England  States.  This  year  U>«  session  was. 
shortened  to  less  than  half  its  usual  length, 
an<l  the  result  was  to  make  the  daily  audi- 
en<;;.>  .aach  larger,  so  that  three  or  four  times 
the  desired  maximum  of  100  was  exceeded, 
Hud  011  one  day  the  chapi:!  was  crowded.  Of 
those  present  from  cue- third  to  one-half  were 
nlways  inviu^rt  persons,  but  the  paying  audi- 
ence has  been  large  enough,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  18S3,  to  meet  tho  modest  expenses  of 
ths  school,  and  this  year  a  considerable  sur- 
plus has  accrued  towards  the  expenses  of 
1885.  The  lecturers  receive  a  small  honorarium, 
at  first  §10  for  each  lecture,  but  now  $15,  and 
the  other  expenses  amount  to  less  than  $100  a 
year.  The  plan  is  a  very  simple  one,  and 
conld  be  carried  oat  in  almost  any  commu- 
nity where  there  is  an  interest  in  such 
topics. 


82 

Concord  has  the  advantage  of  being  a  place 
well  known  and  attractive  for  other  reasons 
than  the  presence  of  this  school.  The  secret 
of  success  has  been,  however,  that  those 
who  took  part  in  it  bad  something  to  say, 
and  were  far  more  interested  in  saying  it  to 
each  other  than  they  were  in  being  reported 
in  the  newspapers  or  making  mouey  oat  of 
their  wisdom,  ho  that  the  celebrity  they  have 
received  has  surprised  them  as  much  as  any- 
body. They  have  paid  no  attention  to  the 
jokes,  good,  bad  or  indifferent,  that  have 
been  made  about  them,  have  not  defended 
themselves  when  attacked  or  bespattered 
with  injudicious  compliment,  but  have  gone 
on  with  what  they  had  to  do  in  their  own 
quiet  way.  The  consequence  is  that  the  fool- 
ish have  got  weary  of  Jesting,  blaming  and 

praising,  and  the  school  has  become  an  insti- 
tution as  firmly  established  as  anything 
could  be  tn  so  short  a  time  as  six  years.  It 
does  not  covet  the  crowds  or  t*ie  machinery 
of  such  institutions  as  the  Chautauqua  as- 
sembly, good  as  that  is,  but  prefers  its  own 
simple  method  and  result. 

DISCTJSSDtG  EMERSON. 

Ths  fourteen  essays  on  "The  Genius  and 
Character  of  Emerson,"  did  not  cover  by 
any  means  the  whole  variety  of  aspect  under 
which  that  subject  could  be  considered,  for 
the  Orientalism  of  Emerson  was  left  out  of 
view,  from  the  failure  of  the  Hindoo  re- 
former Mozoomdar's  essay  to  arrive,  and  no 
lecturer  was  found  to  treat  of  "Emerson  as  an 
orator,"  or  of  his  friendship,  which,  however, 
were  touched  upon  In  the  session  where  Mr. 
Alcott's  diary  was  read,  and  in  that  where 
the  Post  Channing's  tribute  to  his  friends, 
Emerson  and  Thoreau,  was  recalled  to  the 
recollection  of  the  audience.  Chaptors  in 
the  Emerson  volume  are  still  expected  from 
Mr.  Channing,  from  Mozoomdnr  and  from 
W»'t  Whitman,  and  the  French  essay  of  M. 
de  Poyen  will  be  printed  in  the  volume. 

This  was  the  most  general  and  Inclusive 
statement  of  Emerson's  genius  made  during 
the  week,  and  may  serve  to  correct  some  of 
the  absurdities  of  Matthew  Arnold's  and 
John  Morley's  estimate  of  the  Concord  poet- 
philosopher.  Most  of  tbe  lecturers  bad  some 
word  of  dissent  from  Arnold's  criticism,  and 
Mr.  Albee  pointed  out  very  well  what  Is  the 
true  standard  for  measuring  style  in  litera- 
ture. Mr.  Cooke,  the  biographer  of 
Emerson,  dwelt  much  on  American  litera- 
ture and  Emerson's  relation  thereto;  but  the 
Innate,  intuitive  Americanism  of  the  Con- 
cord sage  was  best  set  forth  by  Julian  Haw- 
thorne, who  has  developed  a  fine  talent  for 
criticism  and  for  public  reading.  His  essay 
In  the  "Manhattan"  Is  by  no  means  Identical 
with  the  lecture  read  at  Concord.  Mrs. 
Cheney's  lecture  on  "Emerson  In  Boston," 
gave  mor«  facts  of  the  poet's  life  than  any 
other;  but  many  such  facts  were  brought  out 
In  the  dozen  conversations  that  followed  tho 
Emerson  lecture. 

TALKS  OK    rMMOKXAXTTT. 

On  the  31st  of  July,  and  for  the  two  next 
days,  the  theme  was  "Immortality;"  and  it 
is  scarcely  possible  to  conceive  five  able  lec- 
tures on  the  same  subject  more  unlike  each 
other  than  those  of  Bev.  Dr.  Peabody,  John 
Fiske,  Bev.  Dr.  Holland.  Thomas  Davidson 
and  Professor  Harris,  who  closed  the  debate 
to-day  with  a  lecture  which  will  appear  one 
of  these  days  In  tue'VNorth  American  Review  " 
Dr.  Peabody  spoke  to  the  popular  heart  and 
the  religious  sentiment  Mr.  Fiske  opened 
the  evolution  hypothesis  upoa  a  new  plane, 
with  an  escape  from  materialistic  evolnion 
through  psychical  development  and  personal 
Immortality.  Dr.  Holland  gave  the  profound 
Hegelian  and  theologic  view,  Mr.  Davidson 
arrayed  in  logical  form,  according  to  tbe  ter- 
minology of  the  schoolmen  and  of  Bosmini, 
the  Italian  philosopher,  the  argument  for  an 
Immortality  of  tbe    thinking   and  spiritual 


faculty,  while  Professor  Harris  showed  tbe 
relation  of  tbe  doctrine  and  belief  of  Immor- 
tality to  the  history  and  future  possibilities 
of  mankind;  thus  supplementing  Mr.  Fiske 
and  the  other  lecturers. 

THS  COXJBSE  FOB  B85, 

The  next  year's  coarse  of  lectures  was  an- 
nounced by  the  Faculty  yesterday  as  twenty 
In  uumber,  running  through  two  weeks  and 
having  for  Its  general  subject;  "Goethe  and 
Modern  Science."  The  plan  Is  to  present  tha 
great  works  of  Goethe,  particularly  his 
"Meister,"  "Faust,"  "FartMnlebre"  and 
"Poetry  and  Truth,"  for  study  by  the  profes- 
sors and  pnpils  during  the  interven- 
ing years,  and  then,  in  July,  1885,  to 
open  a  discussion  here  under  fifteen  or  twenty 
different  heads  on  the  philosophic,  scientific* 
poetic  and  practical  activity  of  Goethe,  and 
on  the  great  development  of  science  that  has 
followed  tbe  poetic  philosophy  of  nature  an- 
nounced by  him. 

At  tbe  same  time,  his  principles  of  art  aad 
literature  will  be  considered,  and  compari- 
sons will  be  made  between  bint  and  Dante, 
Plato  and  Homer,  on  one  side,  and  Victor 
Hugo,  Emerson  and  Darwin,  on  tbe  other. 
The  plan  is  very  acceptable  to  the  members 
of  the  school  and  promises  a  session  next 
year  even  more  brilliant  than  this  year's  has 
been.  It  Is  hoped  that  Dr.  Jones,  who  has 
been  absent  two  years,  may  return  In  1885, 
and  that  Mr.  Alcott,  in  spite  of  his  great  age 
and  his  illness,  may  be  present  then. 
»  ■  in   mi'i     I 

ME  OF  THE  ALCOm 


The  Pleasant  Residence  in  Concord  of  a 
Gifted  Family. 


Something  of  the  Everyday  Life  of  tbe  Author- 

ess    of     "Little   Women"   aad     "Little 
Men"— A    Philosopher,    bat  "Cer- 
tainly  Not  a   Farmer. 

: ^ 

Special  Correspondence  of  Thx  Fur-as.  [ 
Concord,  Mass.,  Nov.  38.— The  histot>  • 
little  town  of  Concord,  Mass.,  can  u  < 
doubtedly  claim  the  distinction  of  havit  t 
been,  at  one  time  or  another  in  its  bistort , 
the  home  of  a  greater  number  of  out  fore- 
most literary  celebrities  than  any  other  of  its 
size  in  the  United  States,  and  among  these 
homes  the  Old  Manse  and  Wayside,  from 
their  association  with  Hawthorne,  and  the 
house  in  which  Mr.  Emerson  passed  the  last 
forty-seven  years  of  bis  life,  will,  as  long  as 
they  remain,  be  invested  with  a  peculiar 
charm  alike  for  the  casual  visitor  and  the 
literary  pilgrim.  And  there  are  still  other 
homes  here  which,  from  similar  associations, 
will  always  possess  a  like  interest. 

Next  to  Wayside,  and  standing  back  some 
little  distance  from  the  road,  surrounded  by 
lofty  oaks  and  elms,  Is  an  old  and  quaint-, 
looking  mansion  with  tall,  peaked  roof,  gable 
ends  aud  high,  old-fashioned  porches,  which 
attracts  the  eye  of  the  passer-by,  and  is  apt 
to  Impress  him  with  the  idea,  from  its  rather 
dilapidated  and  decayed  appearance,  that  itj 
may  take  a  sudden  notion  to  tumble  downf 
one  of  these  days.  In  tlds  house— their  old 
orchard  borne— the  Alcott  family  lived  fox 
many  years,  and  here  it  was  that  Miss  Louisa 
Alcott  wrote  her  charming  story  of  "Little 
Women"  and  other  tales,  and  where  she  used 
to  delight   In   gathering  her  yonng  friends 


about  bar  la  the  old  parlor,  with  the  bright, 
light  of  a  toft  summer's  moon  stealing  in 
through  tbe  open  windo  ws,  nod  regaling  tbemi 
with  ghost  stories.  A  not  taappioprtato 
pUoa  for  too  purpose,  for  aeen  upon  a  chill 
winter'*  night,  with  the  clomp  of  talL  funeral-! 
locking  pine*  shadowing  one  aide  of  it,  and 
the  oatepreading  branches  of  the  old  oaks  and; 
elms  canting  weird  and  fantastic  shape*  upon 
the  ground"*  mantle  of  spotless  white,  and! 
tossing  wildly  about  and  uttering  mysterious: 
groans  in  the  keen  Wants  that  emailed  them. 
one  might  well  Imagine  the  place  to  be1 
haunted.  I 

Not  from  fear  of  any  ghostly  intruders, 
however,' bet  from  dread  of  that  far  grimmer 
reality,  rheumatism,  whose  visit*  were  suffi- 
ciently frequent  and  afflictive,  the  family' 
were  finally  compelled  to  abandon  the  old 
place.  Bat  as  one  of  the  literary  homes  of, 
Concord— as  associated  with  the  Alcott  familyl 
— it  still  possesses  more  than  ordinary  in-1 
terest. 

Upon  the  parlor  walls  are  yet  to  be  seen! 
many  of  the  paintings  of  Mrs.  May  Alcott' 
.Nericker,  a  younger  sister  of  the  authoress, 
who  died  in  Paris  a  few  years  ago,  and  "-ho 
was  by  no  means  the  least  talented  of  ;bi^ 
gifted  family.  Indeed,  as  an  artist,  Miss  May) 
Alcott  took  a  distinguished  rank.  On  thel 
door  panels  throughout  their  oltl 
home,  and  on  the  window  frames; 
of  her  own  room  still  remain  the  delicate: 
tracings  and  pictures  which  were  the  work  ot 
her  earlier  years.  Over  the  parlor  fire-plnc? 
are  some  lines  of  "William  Cilery  Channiuj 
painted  by  her, while  her  finely  executed  bus, 
of  Mercury  still  stands  in  the  ball  near  tin 
door.  This,  however,  is  now  the  home  ot 
Professor  Harris,  of  the  Concord  School  ofi 
Philosophy.  I 

The  same  air  ofsimplcbnt  elegant  refinement, 
and  exquisite  taste  that  pervaded  nheir  old 
home  here  characterizes  their  present  one.  It! 
stands  upon  the  main  street  of  the  town,  a 
plain,  two-story  frame  dwelling,  having 
nothing  in  its  outward  aspect  that  would 
suggest  to  a  casual  observer  any  idea  of  the 
pertect  little  paragon  of  artistic  and  esthetic 
beauty  thit  it  is  within. 

In  the  f -on t  parlor  to  the  right  of  the  hall 
the  eye  is  particnlarly  attracted  by  the 
numerous  copies  of  Turner's  pictures  that 
adorn  the  walls.  These  are  the  works  of 
Mrs.  Herlcker,  who  received  from  competent 
authorities  abroad  the  highest  encomiums 
•pen  the  artistic  fidelity  and  accuracy  that 
characterise  them.  Her  own  portrait  by  a 
well-known  lady  artist  of  London,  hangs 
over  the  mantel-piece.  In  the  next  room  is 
the  most  finished  and  beet  known  of  her 
still-life  subjects,  an  earthen  Jug  containing 
ttowers  and  apple-blossoms,  so  natural  look- 
ing that  one  might  imaidne  a  close 
approach  must  reveal  the  delicate 
odors  that  ha  can  scarcely  conceive 
their  perfectly  simulated  bloom  and1 
beauty  to  be  without.  Tastefully  arranged 
in  different  parts  of  the  parlor  are  many  ob- 
jects of  rare  worth  and  beauty,  and  among 
these  are  disposed,  singly  or  In  groups,  sweet- 
scented  flowers,  which  charm  the  eye  with 
their  bright  colors  and  dainty  forms.  The 
room  is  never  without  them,  for  when  the 
natives  of  the  soil  have  paled  their  hues  and 
exhausted  their  perfume  they  are  replaced  by 
delicate  exotics,  so  that  one  might  dwell  here 
in  an  atmosphere  of  perennial  bloom  and 
fragrance. 

Tbe  soft,  warm  carpet,  comfortable  furni- 
ture and  bright,  rich  window  curtains  im- 
part an  air  of  charming  borne  comfort,  while 
in  one  corner  an  open  piano  shows  that  music 
is  one  of  the  fine  arts  that  has  here  its  devo- 
tees. These  consist  of  two  Pratt  boys— chil- 
dren of  Mr.  Aleot.t's  eldest  daughter — the 
"Little  Men"  of  Miss  Louisa  Alcott's  "tor-., 
and  who,  with  their  mother  and  little  Louisa 
Alcott  .Nericker,  form  part  of  the  househol.1. 
Across  tbe  hail,  In  the  front  room,  was  the 
study  and  library  of  Mr.  Alcott  before  the 


83 

erection  ot  his  uew  library,  which  he  has 
had  constructed  since  attaining  his  eightieth 
birthday,  and  here  he  used  to  ho!d  his  Sun- 
day night  talks  upon  subjects  philosophic, 
scientinc,moral  and  religious  with  the  literate 
of  Concord  aud  such  other  privileged  guests 
who  used  to  assemble  here  on  these  occasions. 
He  is  said  to  have  been  of  one  the  best  ta  I  kers  of 
his  time,  and  In  the  sense  that  when  he  talked 
he  let  fall  from  his  lip*  verbal  gems  of 
matured  knowledge  and  profound  wisdom. 
His  mental  activity  for  one  of  his  age  was  re- 
markable, but  scarcely  more  so  than  his 
physical  prowess,  for  up  to  the  time  of  his 
preheat  illness  he  was  to  be  seen  even*  day 
walking  with  quick  »nd  elastic  steppf  ag  the 
main  street  r:  tb<  village,  ar-.J  -«  t.—« 
driving  about  in  a  111  ie  pony  phi* 
"two  grandchildren,  the  Daisy  ana  " 
nowutxl  in  story. 


The  study  of  Miss  Louisa  Alcott  is  over  « 
new  library,  extended  out  from  the  back 
lor,  and  in  this  apartment,  as  in  ail  tbe  oth 
throughout  the  hnuse,  there  is  the  like  reft' 
taste  displayed  in  its  furniture  and  ad 
men's,  the  same  harmouious  blending 
gether  of  the  useful  and  ornniaental  that  is 
charming  a  characteristic  of  the  lower  room! 
As  a  literary  home  it  may  claim  an  add 
tional  interest  from  having  been  at  differei 
times  the  abode  of  Thoreaa  and  Mr.  P.-  I 
Sanborn.  J 

Upon  the  death  of  Miss  Sophia  Tboresn  U 
bouse  'was  purchased  by  Miss  Louisa  Alcot 
and  presented  by  ber  as  a  gift  to  her  sist* 
Mrs.  Pratt.  Another  instance  of  the  gen 
ous  and  kindly  promptings  of  tbe  wan 
hearted  authoress  is  afforded  by  the  mothers 
care  and  affection  she  has  always  lavish* 
upon  her  little  neice  and  namesake,  Lotdj 
Alcott  Kericker,  and  also  by  her  assuming-! 
expense  of  the  education  of  the  Pratt  boys,  I 
which  purpose  her  story  of  "Little  Men""  asi 
written. 

Before  occupying  their  old  orchard  hon 
tbe  family  resided  in  a  small  frame  house 
little  way  out  of  the  town,  and  while  Jlvii 
here  it  was  that  Mr.  Alcott  essayed  tbe  ei 
peri  mem  of  combining  the  toils  of  literatuu 
with  the  labors  of  agriculture.  The  secret  i 
his  failure  to  achieve  any  very  great  sn 
cess  in  this  latter  pursuit  may,  perhaps,  1 
found  in  the  advice  once  given  him.  by  an  o] 
farmer,  who  remarked  to  him  with  a  tone  a 
sly  humor,  illustrating  a  truth  which  woulf 
no  doubt,  be  applicable  in  more  instances  tha 
the  present  one,  "Mr.  Alcott,  if  you  woul 
give  less  attention  to  books  andmore  to  bean 
you  would  have  better  success."  That  he  d*i 
not  profit  by  the  old  fellow's  advice  woui 
seem  to  be  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  he  soa 
after  abandoned  his  agricultural  labor* 
lhat  the  devotees  of  literature  cannot  take*} 
commanding  position  as  farmers  we  haw 
probably  one  of  tbe  best  exnmpl  s  in  the  di* 
af-trons  experiment  at  Brook  Furra.  Bnt  that 
Mr.  Alcott,  the  profound  scholav  and  philo 
piier.  was  actual ly  guilty  of  sett  i ng  out  j .'a 
in  this  ground  with  their  roots  in  the  air 
of  committing  sad  havoc  among  his  vegi 
ble  beds  from  a  constitutional  inability  to: 
cern  the  difference  between  weeds  and 
lent*  we  never  believed,  whatever  some  wi 
have  ns  do  of  the  Brook  Farm  fraternity. 

In  his  home  Mr.  Alcott  is  the  most  ch: 
ing  of  hosts.  Although— to  use  an  e 
sion  oncfl  made  to  the  writer  in  r^gr-rdf 
hiic — "he  will  poar  off  into  tl  e  Infinite  njwa 
al.  occasions,"  he  possesses  ;  hat  happy  fa* 
ulty  which  was  so  eharact.-rist'c  of  ?.Ii 
Emerson,  of  being  able  to  place  himeeif  \x\ 
the  intellectual  level  of  his  guest  or  <■<■'•* 
iota  thus  putting  him  cutireiy  &t  his 
Of  tbe  "Sage  of  Con-ord"  it  wis  «raid  thnt 
would  converse  as  fluently  -ri-h  bis  fa 
friend  about  potatoes  and  cahbaces  as  n 
tbrj  higher  principles  of  transr-eiK1, 
ceophy  with  the  savant.  So  of  Mr.  A  to 
It  may  be  said,  he  could  at  time*  cond-^via 


to    the    commonplace    thinr-   of   oat   U>m 
world    in   graceful  and  'erudite    'ii-cont 
and    even    enjoy    his    joke    with    auy 
Waile  the  Old  Mans?,  ap-irt  from  Its  ins 
eating  historical  associarions.  and   Way*f 
stvrgest  many  pleasant  tl»o,iv.'h'.-'ot  bint  w-J 
was,  perhaps,  among    writers   c."  Betion, 
most  highly  gifted  of  Ame.icrtn  .j-nuor«. 
th-   house  on   the  Lexitig-  >u   rrnl,   rye 
with    its    plain,    white   fr.mc    walis,    jt 
shutters  and  low  roof,   ol  the  oI»i-time 
England  country    homestead,  will   bring: 
the  mind  pleasant  memories  of  him.  who  ! 
one  of  the  profonmlest  thinkers  of  his 
so  vill  the  "Old  Orchard"  home  in  tho  me 
ow.  and  the  little  honsa  on   M-vu  street,  1 
latter,  happily,  still  the  home  of  ton  so'" 
viving   member   of    that    brilliant    iit^ 
coterie  ot  a  passed  away  day,  whii-h 
splendent  with  some  of  the  brightest  Ug 
American  literature,  po*&ess-*HeIce  cliao 
the  honored  friend  aud  visitor  and  the 
ary  pilgrim  who  may  in  the  time  to  < 
in  time  past  chance  to  turn  their  steps.  J 
wards,  .     s    T.  1 

— '■ ..  u  aj  ii'MPJg^**-" 


'"'IriCirui  rKrfUjrt  »mc~V«£ffi-ea  me-i^n} 

where  tmj-ouso.  Is>is'd»!*\  will*  all  tWgtory' 

aiwt  splendor  il'.'A  it  l-iV«Jhc''..on  tit*   cities, 

and  percluirie--\  *»«  it  ims  nvrcr  *et  before, 

.■/here  there  rsubt*.  solitary  rrJundi   hawk 

toliave  his  wings  gilded,  by.it,  or  only  a 

■  Tnn'jhonacl'.  looks  out  fiom   his  cafciu,  arid 

I  hi      is  only  K/mt-  l!ltlcJ:£-»cx--,-e\ne'.J hrook 

in  the  r.i'.ihi  of  thi:'uKirah»  justtegianingto 

meander,  winding  slowly  around  a  deeay- 

|iug.stiuiQp.'   VTo   \v:iIkV<1  In  sojwrc  and 

'bright  alight,  gil.liug. the  withered  grass 

I  and  leaves,  so  «>ftly  and  sercnery-  brwht, 

I  thought  I  harl^nevt'i'-  hathe<l  in  mch  % 

,<jolden  flood,  without  a  rippfe  bfatnuxmur 

in  it.    Hie  west  eido  of  every  wood  and 

rising  ground-glenmctHiki;  the" boundary  01 

'•lyaurn,  find  the  6iro  on  our  backs  seemed 

"likea  gev.tlc  herdsmau  driving  ua  home  at 

evening.    So  we  saunter  toward  tbe  Holy 

Land,  till,   one  ('ay,  the  •na  sbaU  shine 

■more  Dr?,;l»tly  tb*in  ever  be  has  -Ion,  shall 

jjprehiqee  shine  intodttr  minds  and  hearts, 

And  light  i-potir' whole  liTeawith  a  great 

MraiKfiing  light,  a?  *m-m  and  serene  aud 

gr.Iden  ac     o  i    a  bankJlire  in  autumn.— 

"VThex  a  yc-ing  lady  asked  Mlm  Lontsa 
Alcott  for  advice  as  to  earning  a  living  by 
literary  work,  she  replied:  "I  can  only  reply 
to  yours  as  to  the  other  lanamerahln  letters 
•if  the  same  sort  which  I  receive.  "One  most 
wait  and  work  long  and  patiently  before  suc- 
cess of  any  sort  comes  aad  talent  onsst  be  in 
tbe  tales,  or  tbey  won't  selL  If  people  won't 
take  tb«  stories,  try  something  else.  For  a 
young  woman  with  good  health  and  a  brave 
heart  many  ways  of  earning  a  Hring  are 
upon  if  she  can  pnt  ber  pride  ie  ber  pocket 
nod  take  whatever  comes,  no  matter  how 
hamble  the  task  may  be,  i  Mars*,  teacher, 
companion,  housekeeper,  s*aunlises  or  serv- 
ant are  all  honest  trades  aad  worth  try- 
ing while  waiting  for  the  more  agreeable 
work. 

"I  tried  them,  aad  after  grabbing  for 
twenty  years  made  a  hit,  seenjringry  by  acci- 
dent, bnt  I  could  see  howfroii  bard  experi- 
ence bad  helped,  every  sacrifice  eartched, 
and  so  believe  heartily  in  Itat  sort  of  train* 
jing  for  us  all.  I  do  ant  know  anyone  in 
*Washitigton,  and  I  think  anything  better 
than  the  places  women  hold  In  pnattc  offices 
there.  If  ynar  stories  are  good  tbey  will 
find  a  market;  it  tbey  are  aet,  stop  writing 
nnd  try  something  else.  The  gilt  is  born 
with  ns,  aad  caaaot  be  Isamsrt.  an  some 
think.-'"*  


THE  WESTMINSTER  ABBEY  OF  A 
fo&vsX^  BOOK  CATALOGUE. 
^"jSy  Thomas  Wentworth  Hiqoinson. 

THE  American  visitor  enters  Westminster  Abbey 
prepared  to  be  hashed  in  awe  before  the  multi- 
tude of  great  names.  To  his  amazement  he  finds 
himself  vexed  and  bored  with  the  vast  multiplicity 
of  small  ones.  He  must  approach  the  Poets'  Cor- 
ner itself  through  avenues  of  Browns,  Joneses, 
and  Robinsons.  It  seems  that  even  Westminster 
Abbey  affords  no  test  of  greatness,  nor  do  any  of 
the  efforts  to  ascertain  it  by  any  other  test  succeed 
much  better.  The  balloting  in  various  newspapers 
for  "  the  best  hundred  authors "  or  "  the  forty 
immortals  "  has  always  turned  out  to  be  limited  by 
the  constituency  of  the  particular  publication  which 
attempted  the  experiment ;  or  sometimes  even  by 
the  action  of  jocose  cliques,  combining  to  force  up 
the  vote  of  pet  candidates.  As  regards  our  authors, 
the  great  "Library  of  American  Literature"  of 
Stedman  and  Hutchinson  aims  to  furnish  a  sort  of 
Westminster  Abbey  or  Valhalla,  where  the  relative 
value  of  different  writers  may  be  roughly  gauged 
by  the  number  of  pages  assigned  to  each  candidate 
for  fame.  But  this  again  is  determined  by  the 
taste  of  the  compilers,  and  their  judgment,  however 
catholic,  is  not  infallible.  Still  another  test,  and 
one  coming  nearer  to  a  general  popular  consensus, 
may  be  sought  in  the  excellent  catalogues  which  are 
now  prepared  for  our  public  libraries — catalogues 
in  which  the  list  of  each  author's  works  is  supple- 
mented by  appending  the  titles  of  all  books  or  parts 
of  books  written  about  him  ;  not  usually  includ- 
ing, however,  magazine  or  newspaper  articles.  By 
simply  counting  the  entries  of  this  subsidiary  lit- 
erature which  has  already  grown  up  around  each 
eminent  man,  we  can  obtain  a  certain  rough  estimate 
of  the  extent  and  variety  of  interest  inspired  by 
him  in  the  public  mind. 

Let  us  take,  for  instance,  one  of  the  best  and  most 
recent  of  these  catalogues — the  large  quarto  volume 
which  enumerates  the  English  books  in  the  Cleve- 
land (Ohio)  public  library.  This  selection  is  made 
partly  because  of  the  thoroughness  and  excellence 
of  the  work  itself,  and  partly  because,  as  Emerson 
once  said,  "  Europe  stretches  to  the  AUeghanies," 
and,  by  going  west  of  them,  we  at  least  rid  ourselves 
of  any  possible  prejudices  of  the  Atlantic  border.  I 
have  carefully  counted  the  list  of  entries  in  this 
catalogue  under  the  names  of  many  prominent 
Americans  not  now  living ;  and  the  results  have 
been  such  as  to  surprise  not  merely  the  compiler, 
but  all  with  whom  he  has  compared  notes.  No 
person  to  whom  he  has  put  the  question  has  yet 
succeeded  in  hitting,  at  a  guess,  the  first  four  names 
upon  the  list  presently  to  be  given  ;  the  list,  that  is, 
of  those  under  whose  names  the  entry  of  biograph- 
ical and  critical  literature  is  largest.  The  actual 
table,  arranged  in  order  of  pre-eminence,  is  as  fol- 
lows, the  number  following  each  name  representing 
the  number  of  books,  or  parts  of  books,  referring  to 
the  person  named,  and  enumerated  in  the  Cleve- 
land catalogue.  The  actual  works  of  the  author 
himself  are  not  included.     The  list  is  as  follows : 

Washington ™ 

Emerson,  Lincoln  (each) *1 

Franklin ■*••••  3T 

Webster M 

Longfellow 33 

Hawthorne 2° 

Jefferson *" 

Grant M 

Irvin* ?i 

Clay 19 

Beecher,  Poe,  M.  F.  Ossoli 1« 

Theodore  Parker 15 

John  Adams,  Somner 14 

Cooper,  Greeley,  Sheridan 12 

Everett n 


84 

John  Brown,  Channing,  Farragnt 10 

Garrison,  Hamilton.  Prescott,  Seward,  Taylor     .     9 

Thpreaa. 7 

Allston 5 

Edwards,  Motley fi 

This  list  certainly  offers  to  the  reader  some  sur- 
prises in  its  details,  but  it  must  impress  every  one, 
after  serious  study,  as  giving  a  demonstration  of 
real  intelligence  and  catholicity  of  taste  in  the 
nation  whose  literature  it  represents.  When,  for 
instance,  we  consider  the  vast  Dumber  of  Tog  cabins 
or  small   farmhouses  where  the  name  of  Lincoln 

is  a  household  word,  while  that  of  Emerson  is  as 
unknown  as  that  of  jEschylus  or  Catullus,  one  can- 
not help  wondering  that  there  should  have  been  as 
many  books  written — so  far  as  this  catalogue  indi- 
cates— about  the  recluse  scholar  as  about  the  mar- 
tyr-President. The  prominence  of  Washington  and 
Franklin  was  to  be  expected,  but  that  Longfellow 
should  come  so  near  Webster,  and  that  both  he  and 
Hawthorne  should  distinctly  precede  Jefferson  and 
Grant,  affords  surely  some  sensations  of  surprise. 
Again,  there  is  something  curious  in  the  fact  that 
Poe  should  stand  "  bracketed,"  as  they  say  of  exam- 
ination papers,  with  the  Margaret  Fuller  whom  he 
detested  ;  that  the  classic  Everett  should  fall  so  far 
below  the  radical  Parker  ;  and  that  Dr.  Channing 
and  John  Brown,  the  antipodes  of  each  other  as 
to  temperament,  should  rank  together  on  the  re- 
turns. But  all  must  agree  that  these  figures  reflect, 
to  a  greater  degree  than  one  would  have  expected, 
the  actual  prominence  of  these  various  personages 
in  the  public  mind  ;  and  could  the  table  include  a 
number  of  printed  catalogues  instead  of  one,  it 
really  would  afford  as  fair  an  approximation  as  we 
are  likely  to  obtain  to  a  National  gallery  of  emi- 
nent persons. 

It  is  easily  to  be  seen  that  no  similar  gallery  of 
living  persons  would  have  much  value.  It  is  not, 
ordinarily,  until  after  a  man's  death  that  serious 
criticism  or  biography  begins.  Comparing  a  few 
living  names,  we  find  that  there  are  already,  in  the 
Cleveland  catalogue,  subsidiary  references  to  living 
persons,  as  follows: 

Lowell 15 

Holmes,  Whittier,  General  Sherman 12 

Mrs.  Stowe 8 

Bancroft (> 

Whitman 5 

President  Cleveland 4 

Harte :i 

Blaine,  Howells,  James  2 

Hale,  Parkraan 1 

These  figures,  so  far  as  they  go,  exhibit  the  same 
combination  of  public  and  literary  service  with 
those  previously  given.  Like  those,  they  effectually 
dispose  of  the  foolish  tradition  that  republican 
government  tends  to  a  dull  mediocrity.  Here  we 
see  a  people  honoring  by  silent  suffrages  their 
National  leaders,  and  recording  the  votes  in  the 
catalogue  of  every  town  library.  There  is  no  nar- 
row rivalry  between  literature  and  statesmanship, 
or  between  either  of  these  and  military  qualities,  but 
all  leaders  are  recognized  for  what  they  have  given. 
The  result  is  a  tribute  to  that  natural  inequality  of 
men  which  is  as  fully  recognized,  in  a  true  repub- 
lic, as  their  natural  equality  ;  that  is,  they  are  equal 
in  the  sense  of  being  equally  men,  but  not  equal  in 
their  gifts  as  men.  It  is  curious  to  see  how  the 
social  falsities' of  English  society  tell  on  educated 
Englishmen,  so  surely  as  they  grow  old  enough  to 
shed  the  generous  impulses  of  youth.  It  was  in 
vain  that  Tennyson  wrote  "  Clara  Vere  de  Vere," 
and  Froude  "  The  Nemesis  of  Faith,"  and  Ruskin 
"  Modern  Painters,"  and  Swinburne  the  "  Song  in 
Time  of  Order :"  let  them  once  reach  middle 
life  and  they  are  all  stanch  Tories  and  "  accept 
dukes  ;"  and  now  Huxley  follows  in  their  train. 
But  here  in  America  we  find  no  difficulty  in  select- 


83^5 


o   * 


i 

53 


fe' 

«    m    <a    <o    a  — 
a  3   o.'O  jb  o. 


■5  --2 
.  -  a  g 

"3  '&1 

ts       * 
S  bS 

OS 

*>g 
bo  °  S2 

C3   -»*    © 

£  2  3 


3  J    5.S 


.S3  2 


a"  - 

3  » 


5  5  S^  °-3^  «a 


<*  %  B  a.S 

o.      © 


•a  »  a  s 

5  «  «  3 


•86 


■O  JS  % 

S  ■  « 

Sao 

•  <  < 
a    «  o 

...    m  ja 

*  *~ 

-  *»S 
Me,® 

.S  d?  * 

"5  «3  -5 


o  _^  2-3  o  B-jz  ®.~  •  jb 

fe"2H^|-B^C~.25 
"J* 


I  2  S 


■§■§•§.2 

.  «  _ 

S   ©  **   ©   m 

"   °    ,*  S"S  i     S'5.S  • 


5         -  a  * 


iJb 


_  a-2 
§.2:31:2 -5*  g£  g  g 


I 


'a  a  fc 


©  **       w 


•  4i 


3  ° 

3.8  a 

s^s 

gs  « 

■  •  fc" 

£  >-° 

E   c«   m 

<d  .a    » 

"8*  ■ 
J  S  8 

s 


■a  g  s  j  § 

*  ° 

5.  «>  — 

'      3 


•s  -s -3 

.2  a  £  r 


:u 


?2 

ho  c  •  - 
.°  .2 


K     ?    m 


S  2° 
©  © 

lis 


Z    V  *.     E 

ie  -©    ai  _    S 

o   1  fe 

2-9-2  a 


a 

i 

2 

35 


"9-5  a  _  t* 
9  3  E  a>  j 


I  <   © 


*  1  S-B 


H    5    V    s 

.  -  3 


a  « 


.2  5  a  &> 


a  a  S  "> '2 
«  a  «t3 


si 


S     S> 
O  J3 


bfl 


S  1-2  1  £ 


S  *  8 

"3  ©  *"  £ 

aTg.S"" 

.2  &■§  a 


DEAN  STANLEY  OH    AMERICA. 


The  following  ll  the  address  Of  Dean  Stan- 
ley befor*  tbe  Birmingham  and  Midland  In- 
stitute, at  Birmingham,  England,  on  the 
occasion  of  bli  Inauguration  as  President  of 
the  institute,  ou  December  19th: 

On  this  occasion  I  have  thought  that.  In- 
stead of  enlarging  on  the  commonplace. 
topics  of  education  or  literature,  which 
would  be  equally  advantageous  at  any 
time  or  In  anyplace,  it  might  be  useful  to 
say  a  few  words,  suggested  by  a  recent  Jour- 
ney to  the  United  8tates,  which  will  not  be 
unsuitable  to  the  general  questions  in- 
volved In  institutions  like  this.  It  is  not 
my  purpose  to  give  you  what  are  cnlled 
"Impressions  of  America."  Even  if  the 
circumstances  of  my  Journey  did  not  render 
such  an  undertaking  impossible,  I  should 
have  felt  that,  before  an  audience  at 
Birmingham,  the  ground  had  already 
been  preoccupied  by  a  distinguished 
Pastor,  well  known  to  all  of  you,  whose 
activity  and  zeal  must  be  admired  even  by 
those  who  most  widely  differ  from  bin), 
and  whose  controversial  vigor  of  style  few 
can  Imitate  or  emnlate.  I  propose  to  con- 
fine myself  to  that  side  of  American  life 
which  perhaps  was  of  more  interest  to  roe 
than  to  most  travellers— Its  purely  histori- 
cal aspect,  that  aspect  presented  by  the 
original  Eastern  States  to  which  my  Jour- 
ney was  confined.  It  is  a  part  of  history 
of  which,  for  whatever  reason.  Englishmen 
arc  strangely  Ignorant — at  least  I  speak  for 
myself— until  their  Imagination  has  been 
touched  by  the  actnal  sight  of  that  vast 
continent,  with  its  Inspiring  suggestions 
and  recollections. 

There  are  two  remarks  which  an  English- 
man constantly  hears  from  tbe  lips  oi 
Americans,  uttered  with  a  kind  of  plain- 
tive apology:  "We  are  a  young  people. " 
and  "We  have  no  antiquities:"  The  truth 
of  the  first  of  these  remarks  every  one  must 
admit;  the  truth  of  the  second  I  venture  to 
question.  Ther.e  Is  a  saylngof  Lord  Bacon, 
part  of  which  has  been  made  familiar  from 
Its  having  become  tbe  title  of  an  Interest- 
ing work  oy  an  eloquent  and  multifarious 
writer  of  our  own  tlase,  "Ant iqnitas  taeculi 
fuventu*  mundi,"  '-'The  age  of  the  world  Is 
also  Its  youth.'*  But  there  is  tbe  reverse 
of  this  saying,  which  la  equally  true: 
"The  youth  of  a  nation  is  also  its  an- 
tiquity." It  was  a  fundamental'  maxim 
of  the  historical  philosophy  of  a  great 
teacher  onoe  well  known  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  Birmingham,  and  I  trust  not  vet 
forgotten,  Thomas  Arnold,  of  Rugby;  that 
every  nation  has  Its  ancient  and  modern 
history.  Irrespectively  of  the  chronological 
place  which  such  nation  may  bold  in  the 
geoeral  succession  of  events.  This  is  strik- 
ingly Hii  st rated  in  lue  case  of  America. 
Its  youth  brings  it  within  the  category  of  a 
period  of  history  which  may  truly  he  called 
ancient,  because  It  sill]  breathes  something 
of  the  freshness  of  its  first  beginnings,  be- 
cause It  «tl!l  exhibits  society  not  In  tbe 
~s«mism  -*f"r-»b*-o:iii*»-  aoo!evcmi-!M,iVut  ai 
gradual  formatlou.  No  donbt  the  xcleotlflc 
and  material  appliances  of  the  nineteeth 
century,  in  some  respects  carried  out  to 
a  further  extent  in  the  New  World 
than  in  the  Old,  give  an  appearance  of  no- 
velty, and, in  a  certain  sense,  of  perfection, 
which  U  altogether  alien  to  tbe  first  origin 
of  apeopl  •  bat  when  we  penetrate  below 
this  was'  1  find  that  there  are  Abundant 
traeesr  »  youthful, chlidllke.snd  there- 
fore v  re  aspect  of  American  history. 
'Tha.  -wr*wT-Am erica  corresponds  to  the 
[USuo.aJt*  of  Europe.  It  Is  this  peculiarity 
ot  American  history  In  Its  past.  It?  present 
and  Its  future,  which  constitute*  IU"  peculiar 
Interest,  oaen  its  best  apology,  always  its 
powerful  lucentlve.  It  Is  a  characteristic 
wnlch,  in  a  large  measure,  it  shares  with 
Russia,  bnt  which  in  America  is  brought  to 
a  nearer  focus  from  tha  shortness  of  the 
career  it  has  hitherto  run. 

THE  FPOCHS  OF  AMEHICAN    HISTOBT. 

The  history  of  tho  United  States  may  be 
said  to  class  itself  In  to  four  different  epochs, 
which  emerge  from  the  level  to  wnlch  i  he 
larger  part  of  its  annals  are  confined.  The 
first  epoch  is  what  we  may  call  the  Era  of 
the  Founders.  It  is  rarely  tbat  we  -re  ahle 
so  nearly  to  place  ourselves  within  the 
reach  of  the  first  inhabitants  and  tbe  first 
chieftains  of  a  powerful  people.  What  most 
resembles  this  epoch  Is,  perhaps',  the  ac- 
counts, historical  or  legendary.of  the  foun- 
dation of  the  Grecian  Slates,  whether  In  tho 
mother  country  or  Its  dependencies.  But 
the  Qreek  founders  arc,  for  the  most 
part,  more  or  less  Involved  in  a 
cloud  of  fable,  whilst  those  or  the  American 
Commonwealth  stand  out  in  all  tbe  dis- 


85 

tlnctness  of  living  and  actnal  personalities. 
It  was  an  extraordinary  sensation  which  I 
experienced  when,  two  dsys  after  landing 
in  America,  I  found  myself  assisting  at  the 
celebration  of  the  2Wth  anniversary  of  the 
town  of  Salem,  In  Massachusetts.  Around 
me  were  guests  and  speakers  who  derived 
their  lineage  and  name  from  those  who  had 
first  set  foot  on  what  was  then  a  desolate 
wilderness.  On  on  3  side  was  a  distinguished 
Judge,  the  representative  of  Endlcott.  the 
first  Governor;  on  the  other  side  tbe  vener- 
able and  accomplished  descendant  of  Win- 
throp,  if  not  tbe  first  actual,  tbe  first  un- 
disputed Governor  of  t*»e  Colon/--  T.i« 
orrice  Itself  was  well  represented  by  the 
honored  citizen  who.  In  direct  succes- 
sion, filled  It  at  that  moment-  On  the 
rlgbt  hand  and  tbe  left  were  the  8a  I  ton  - 
stalls,  tha  Bo wd Itches,  and  the  Hlgcinsons 
— names  obscure  here,  but  household  words 
there.  Their  progenitors  are  not  shadowy 
phantoms— like  the  heroes  of  Ossisn's 
poems — with  the  stars  shining  through 
them,  but  stout  and  stalwart  yeomen,  or 
merchants,  or  clergy,  like  ourselves;  each 
home  In  tbe  place  claimed  some  connection 
with  one  or  other  of  these  ancestral  patri- 
archs; their  portraits,  tbelr  letters,  the 
trees  they  bad  planted,  the  churches  they 
had  hull  i.  were  still  amongst  us.  It  was  as 
If  one  were  sitting  at  table  far  back  In  the 
opening  of  English  or  European  history, 
with  the  grandsons  or  great-grandsoas  of 
Henglstand  Horsa,  or  Clovts  and  Pepin.  It 
was  tbat  sense  of  near  proximity  to  tbe  be- 
ginnings of  tbe  State  which  is  so  marvel- 
lously reproduced  In  Sir  Walter  Scott's  no- 
vel of  "lvanhoe,"  where,  with  perhaps  a 
too  close  foreshortening  of  bis  picture,  he 
makes  us  feel  tftat  Cedrlc  anil  Athelstan, 
Front  de  Bceuf  '  and  the  Templars,  still 
breathed  tbe  S]T«  it  of  the  Saxon  monarchy 
and  of  the  Norman  Conquest, 

Look  for  a  moment  at  some  of  the  sepa- 
rate groups  Into  which  the  founders  of  the 
American  Slates  arrange  themselves.  In 
tbe  brilliant  pages  of  ibe  venerable  histo- 
rian of  tbe  United  States.  George  Bancroft, 
you  see  them  one  by  one,  from  Florida  to 
Quebec,  emerging,  as  II  from  the  ocean, 
under  the  guidance  of  those  ancient  heroes. 
Take  tlrsi  that  which  Is  still  In  common 
pasta  mix  rs  lipd-lbj  V other  State,  or  tbe  Old 
Domlinon  of  Virginia.  What  can  be  more 
stirring  or  more  primeval  than  the  account 
of  those  brilliant  adventures,  woo  in  the 
dazzling  glory  ot  the  Elizabethan  age  were 
fired  with  the  bopeot  perpetuating  the  name 
of  the  Virgin  Queen  on  a  new  continent? 
Look  at  the  first  projector  of  tha  scheino, 
statesman,  poet,  blstorlau,  discoverer.  Sir 
Walter  Itnlotglil  Ho  lies  In  a  nameless 
grave  at  Westminster,  but  his  true  monu- 
ment Is  tha  eolouy  of  Virginia.  Look  at 
the  strange  figure,  well-knowu  lu  Amo- 
tion, dimly,  I  fear,  recognized  In 
England,  of  hlin,  though  bearing  the 
homely  uame  of  John  Smyth,  was  tbe  llfo 
mid  soul  of  that  early  settlement,  and 
whose  career,  both  before  aud  afterward, 
was  chequered  with  a  series  of  marvellous 
risks,  which  might  wall  have  belonged  to  a 
Grecian  Argonaut  or  a  med lie val  crusader. 
With  a  scientitio  and  nautical  ardor,  which 
has  descended  to  his  lineage  In  this  country, 
including  the  late  renowned  hydrogrupher, 
Admiral  Smyth,  was  combined  an  Impetu- 
ous passion  for  adventure  which  had  pre- 
viously led  htm  through  the  wars  of  Hun- 
gary, and  plunged  him  Into  tbe  dungeons  of 
the  Turkish  corsairs;  and  whloh.  lu  Ameri- 
ca, won  tbe  affections  of  tbe  Indian  tribes, 
against  whom  he  alone  was  able  to  guard 
the  infant  colony.  Tbrlce  wag  his  Ufa  saved 
by  the  Interest  whloh  his  presence  inspired 
in  three  princesses  whom  be  encountered 
In  these  various  hazards — Calaneia,  the 
lady  of  Hungary;  Trabeglzonda,  tbe  lady 
of  the  Turkish  harem;  and  Pocahontas,  the 
young  daughter  of  the  Indian  Chief  Pow- 
hatan, who  throw  herself  between  blin  and 
her  father's  anger.  It  Is  by  a  singular  fate 
that  whilst  Pocahontas,  the  earliest,  oral- 
most  tbe  earliest  Christian  convert  of  the 
native  tribes  of  North  America,  lies  burled 
Within  the  parish  church  of  Gravesend, 
where  she  closed  her  life,  the  remains  of 
John  Smyth,  after  his  long  and  stormy  ca- 
reer, should  repose  In  the  solemn  gloom  of 
the  Church  of  St.  Sepulohre,  iu  tbe  City  of 
London.  "Here,"  such  was  bis  epitaph, 
"be  lies  conquered  who  conquered  all." 

THE  LANDING  OF  THE  PILGRIMS. 

Turn  to  another  group.  Can  any  one 
stand  on  the  hill  above  the  Bay  ot  Ply- 
mouth, In  New  England,  and  sea  without 
a  yearning  as  toward  the  cradle  of  a  saored 
State,  the  Mayflower  winding  her  difficult 
way  from  promontory  to  promontory,  from 
Island  to  Island,  till  at  last  tho  little  crew 


descend  upsfa  the  one  solitary  rook  on  that 
level  shore— tbe  rock  of  wbloh  tbe  remains 
are  still  visited  by  hundreds  of  pilgrims 
trom  every  part  of  North  America?  Is  It 
not  truly  a  record  of  the  heroic  age  when 
we  read  the  narrative  of  tbe  wasting  away. 
In  that  cold  December  season,  of  one-half 
of  the  little  colony,  tha  other  hiding  tbelr 
dead  under  nameless  graves,  lest  the  neigh- 
boring Indians  should  perceive  the  dimin- 
ishing strength  of  these  peaceiul  Invaders; 
and  then  the  stern  determination,  with 
whloh  they  watched  the  vessel,  alter  five 
months,  return  on  Its  homeward  voyage, 
without  one  single  colonist  of  tbe  rem- 
nant that  was  left  abandoning  the  cause 
for  which  they  came,  and  retracing 
their  steps  to  comfort  and  plenty?  What  u 
dramatic  circle  is  tbat  which  contains  the 
stern  General  Bradford,  tbe  Yorkshire  sol- 
dier of  fortune;  doubti  ul  Puritan  aud  doubt- 
ful Catholic  Miles  Standlsh;  the  flrstchlld 
born  on  the  Atlantic,  Oceanus  Hopkins; 
the  first  child  horn  In  'New  England,  Pere- 

K  lue  White!  Or  again,  look  at  that  slngu- 
r  eccentric  enthusiast,  Roger  Williams, 
who  found  the  bonds  which  the  new  colony 
oudeavorod  to  lay  vpon  him  not  less  odious 
than  (those  which  caused  those  colonists 
themselves  to  leave  tbelr  native  country, 
and  himself  wandering  over  wooded  bill 
and  valley,  or  threading  his  way  In  solitary 
canoe  till  he  reached  a  point  where  he  could 
at  peace  unfurl  the  banner  of  religious  tole- 
ration, and  to  which,  In  grateful  acknow- 
ledgment of  the  grace  of  God  whloti  bad 
smiled  on  htm  thus  far,  he  gave  tbe  name 
still  Immortalized  in  the  State  tbalspraug 
from  bis  exertions,  "Providence."  Or, 
again,  look  to  the  banks  of  the  Delaware, 
where  William  Penn  founded  what  be  well 
called  tho  "holy  experiment"  of  a  State 
which  should  appeal,  .  not  to  war,  but 
to  peace  tor  protection,  and  whlob  should 
improve,  to  use  bis  own  words,  "  an  Inno- 
cent course  of  Hie  on  a  virgin  Elyslan 
shore."  There  rose  tba  City  of  Brotherly 
Love,  whose  streets  still  bear  the  names  of 
the  ash,  the  chestnut,  tha  spruce  and  tbe 
wajnutol  the  forest.  In  whlcn  It  was  planted. 
There  reigned  that  dynasty  oi  princes  who 
acknowledged  tiiolr  allegiance  to  the  Eng- 
lish Crown  by  tbe  simple  homage  of  a 
beaver's  skin,  and  whose  principle,  derived 
from  tho  patriarch  of  tho  Quakers,  George 
Fox,  was,  "  Let  your  light  shine  among  tho 
Indians,  the  blacks  and  the  whites. "  Or  lu 
Georgia,  look  at  the  fine  old  churclimau, 
Oglethorpe,  the  unwavering  friend  of  Wes- 
ley, the  model  soldier  of  Samuel  Johnson, 
the  synonym  lu  tbe  month  of  Pope  lor 
"  stromr  benevolence  of  soul."  He  and 
those  I  have  named  may  surely  be  reckoned 
amongst  those  to  whom  Lord  Bacon  gives 
the  first  place  amongst  the  beneiactors  of 
mankind— tho founders  of  Stales  and  Em- 
pires. They  urc  examples  of  the  hoary  sa- 
cred antiquity  which  may  still  be  fouud  in 
America. 

THK  CONTEST  FOB  A  CONTINENT. 

I  pass  to  the  next  epoch— It  Is  that  in 
which  the  great  French  and  English  na- 
tions conteudod  for  tbe  possession  of  tha 
American  continent,  as  they  had  onoa  In 
the  middle  ages  contended  for  the  posses- 
sion of  the  ancient  kingdom  of  France. 
This  also,  although  chronologically  It  ap- 
pears in  tbe  midst  of  tbe  prosaic  eighteenth 
century,  is  fraught  with  all  the  romunoe 
which  belongs  to  the  mediu-val  struggles  of 
European  races.  It  Is  that  long  contest  so 
graphically  described  lu  the  elaborate  nar- 
rative or  Francis  Purkniun,  and  it  la  Inter- 
twined wltb  some  of  the  most  Impressive 
scenes  of  American  stature.  Look  al 
that  Una  of  waters,  Lake  George 
and  Luke  Cbampluln,  '  whloh  formed 
at  that  lime  the  central  thorough  faro— 
the  only  thoroughfare— through  what  was 
then  a  trackless  wilderness  of  mountain 
and  forest.  See  the  English  armies, drawn 
alike  from  the  mother  country  and  the 
sltll  obedient  colonists,  lighting  lu  one 
common  cause,  coming  down  In  ihoirvoat 
flotilla  through  thoso  hugo  overhanging 
woods.  See  at  the  points  between  tbe 
lakes,  tho  fortress,  of  whloh  the  ruins  still 
remain — almost  the  only  ruins  that  oun>  be 
seen,  perhaps,  throughout  the  length  and 
hrawJIU  ofsiie  UolkalSlates-tha  tortraaa  of 

TTconderoga,  or  at  the  French  called  It, 
Carillon,  or  Chimes,  ftom  tba  melodious 
murmurof  the  waters  which  dashed  along 
from  one  Inland  sea  to  the  other.  Listen  to 
the  legendary  lore  wblcb  bangs  over  the 
mysterious  death  of  Duncan  Campbell  of 
Inverawe.  whose  gravestone  Is  still  to  bs 
seen  amongst  the  descendants  of  bis  fa- 
mous clan;  or  gase  on  the  historic  splen- 
dor which  surrounds  tbe  name  of  Lord 
Howe,     commemorated    by     the    grateful 


American*,  allk*  In  a  roonumeDt  on 
th*  toot  where  he  tell,  by  the  chores 
of  Lake  George,  md  within  the 
walls  of  Westminster  Abbey.  Or  again, 
look  more  northward  aim,  to  tba  wonder- 
ful enterprise  In  which  the  most  captiva- 
ting of  English  soldiers,  th*  little  sickly 
red.  haired  hero,  General  Wolfe,  by  a  mira- 
cle oi  audacity  climbed  the  helghu  of  Abra- 
ham, and  won  the  Imperial  fortress  of  Que- 
bec In  the  singular  victory  In  which  almost 
at  tbe^same  hour  expired  himself  and  his 
no  less  chivalrous  adversary  the  French 
Montcalm.  The  Englishmen  and  Ameri- 
can *> of  to-day.  aa  they  look  from  the  terruce 
of  the  citadel  of  Quebec  over  the  mighty 
waters  of  the  8t.  Lawrence,  may  alike  feel 
their  patriotism  kindled  by  the  recollection 
of  that  time;  and  not  the  leas  because,  as  I 
have  aald,  it  Is  wrapt  In  a  halo  of  romance 
which  belongs  rather  to  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury than  to  that  In  which  it  actually  oc- 
curred. Those  scenes  of  battles  between 
the  high-born  courtiers  of  France  on  the 
one.  band,  and  the  Jacobite  blghlanders 
of  Scotland,  and  the  sturdy  colonists 
of  Virginia  and  Massachusetts  inter- 
mingled with  tbe  war  whoop*  and 
the  tomahawk,  the  feathers  and  the  colors 
of  those  Indian  tribe*  who  were  the  terror 
and  the  attraction  alternately  of  both  the 
contending  parlies,  carry  ns  back  to  times 
which  assure  us  that  tbe  American  novelist, 
Fenlmnre  Cooper,  lightly  choseibetn  as  a 
theme  of  bis  picturesque  and  beart-stlrrlng 
tales,  and  which  make  even  an  Englishman 
or  a  Scotchman  feel  that  lu  traversing  those 
regions  he  la,  aa  It  were,  on  tbe  Loch  Ka- 
trine or  the  Jj6ch  Lomond  of  hi*  own  kin- 
dred isles.  And  when  In  the  hills  of  the 
American  Berkshire  we  see  tb*  huge  boul- 
der which,  with  Its  simple  inscription 
marks  tbe  "grav*  of  tb*  Btockbridge  In- 
dians, the  friend*  of  nor' father*,"  we  feel 
that  we  stand  on  tbe  boundary  of  those 
days  when  tbe  cj  vlllzed  man  and  tbe  savage 
wei*  not  yet  parted  asunder,  when  there 
was  still  a  sense  of  mutual  gratitude  be- 
tween the  two  races  aneh  a*  carrie*  as  bnck 
to  the  time*  when  Goth  and  Roman,  Celt 
and  Saxon  met  In  their  varied  vicissitudes 
of  war  and  peace.  »■ 

TBI  REVOLUTIONA«T  WAR. 

We  pass  to  tbe  third  epoch— that  of  tbe 
War  of  Independence.  We  now  approach  a 
region  which,  compared  with  tbe  two  that 
have  preceded  It,  may  well  be  called  mo- 
dern. Yet  here  also  there  Is  a  savor  of  an- 
tiquity and  of  primitive  inspiration  In  the 
circle  of  renowned  characters  who  for  tbe 

flirt.  p*rb*p«  w«  m«y  M7  ^tasoaiy,  Xlrxs-ip 
American  history,  appear  equal  to  the 
greatness  of  their  country's  destinies. 
When,  In  the  public  place  at  Richmond,  we 
see  the  statue  ol  George  Washington  sur- 
rounded by  the  group  of  ins  famous  Vir- 
ginians or  hi*  time,  tb*  eloquence  of  Pat- 
rick Henry,  lb*  Jadlctoa*  sagacity  of 
Marshall,  the  eccentric  energy  of  Jeffer- 
son—when to  these  w*  add  tb*  stem 
vigor  of  John  Adams,  and  Samuel, 
bis  namesake,  from  Boston,  and  last,  nor 
least,  the  homely  and  penetrating  genius  of 
Benjamin  Franklin,  from  Philadelphia, end 
the  brilliant  philosophic  friend  and  equal 
ofTalleyrand,  tbe  gifted  and  unfortunate 
Alexander  Hamilton,  we  feel  tbat  we  are 
In  tbe  presence  of  one  of  those  Intellectual 
constellations  which  mark  only  those erent 
creative  epochs  In  the  history  of  nations, 
such  as  may  Indeed  appear  in  their  later 
history,  but  usually  belong  to  those  mo- 
ments when  the  nation  Itself  1*  struggling 
into  existence.  In  all  the  events  ot  thai 
struggle  there  I*  a  dramatic  movement 
which  belongs  to  those  critical  times  when 
mankind  is  going  through  one  of  its  deci- 
sive trials.  Old  Martin  Routb,  of  Oxiord, 
who  bad  lived  through  tbe  French  Revolu- 
lion  and  tbe  Napoleonic  war*,  when  asked 
in  his  extreme  old  age  what  event  of  his 
time  had  produced  In  England  the  deepest 
Impression,  answered:  "The  separation 
of  the  American  Slates;"  and  when, 
in  his  100th  year,  be  wandered  In 
bis  dying  moments  to  the  recollections  of 
lormer  year*,  bis  last  words  murmured 
something  of  "the  war  with  America." 
Many  are  tbe  scenes  wblch  Impress  on  tbe 
mind  the  momentous  aspect  of  that  time. 
Let  me  select  two.  One  shall  be  tbat  In 
which  tbe  first  British  blood  wassbed,  on 
the  19tb  of  April,  1779.  It  is  in  the  green 
meadows  close  to  tbe  village  of  Concord.  A 
gentle  river  divide*  the  swelling  bills  on 
either  side;  a  rustic  bridge  crosses  tb*. 
stream.  On  one  side  Is  a  simple  pillar 
which  marks  the  grave*  where  the  first 
English  soldiers  that  were  slain  still  ll« 
burled;   on    the  other  aide  1*  a  monument. 


86 

erected  In  later  times,  representing  one  oi 
the  simple  American  peasants  with  his 
mnskel  br  bis  side,  and  underneath  nr 
writ  ten  the  memorable  wordsofoneof  tl-- 
erealest  livinc  poata,  himself  a  native  or 
Concord,  and  tbe  grandson  o^  tb*  pastor  of 
the  village,  who  was  present  at  the  time  of 
the  conflict: 

"Py  the  rude  bridge  that  arched  tbe  flood, 
Their  flag  to  April's  breese  unfurled, 
Here  once  the  embattled  farmers  stood, 
And    fired    the    shot    beard    round    tho 

world." 
The  other  scene  1*  Mount  Vernon,  the  un- 
adorned yet  spacious  wooden  mansion 
where  Washington  spent  his  latest  years 
with  bis  devoted  wife,  with  his  retinue  of 
slaves,  with  the  gracious  hospitality  of  an 
almost  rezal  majesty;  looking  out  from  the 
oaks  which  now  overhang  hi*  grave  over 
the  broad  waters  of  tbe  Potomac,  on  whose 
bank*  was  lo  rise  tbe  noble  but  still  unfin- 
ished capital  which  bear*  hi*  canonised 
name.  Ko  Englishman  need  grudge  the 
hours  that  be  mvea  to  the  biography  which 
Washington  Irving  has  given  to  our  great 
countryman  (lor  such  he  still  was),  the  fa- 
ther of  the  American  Commonwealth. 

A  CAKEFOL  ALLUSION  TO  THI  crviL  WAR. 

There  Is  yet  one  fourth  group  of  events 
which  makes  us  reel  tbat  even  now  in  the 
time  in  which  we  llv?  America  belongs  to 
those  old  days  of  European  notions  when  so- 
ciety was  not  yet  wedded  together,  when  the 
wars  of  York  and  Lancaster,  or  tb*  wars  of 
Cromwell  and  Charles  the  First,  were  still 
possible.  1  refer  to  the  only  civil  war  ot  re- 
cent time*— perhaps  the  greatest  civil  waroi 
all  times— the  war  between  tbe  Northern  and 
the  Southern  state*  ten  year*  ago.  But 
this  Is  too  close  to  our  day*  lor  a*  to  safely 
touch  upon;  tbe  smouldering aabe*  or  that, 
fierce  volcano  sire  too  near  tbe  surface.  I 
do  but  glance  at  It  and  move  onward*. 

KUUCATIONAL   INSTITUTIONS. 

What  I  have  aald  of  tbe  history,  so  to 
speak,  of  America  at  once  Illustrates  nnd  Is 
illustrated  by  some  ol  the  cblel  characteris- 
tics of  the  present  condition  of  the  United 
Slates,  ana  also  or  our  expectation*  or  Its 
future.  Look,  for  example,  at  the  extraor- 
dinary munificence  shown  In  multiplica- 
tion of  Institutions  emanating  In  a  large  de- 
gree from  the  piety  aud  liberality  of  indi- 
vidual founders  and  benefactor*.  The  very 
phrase  which  I  use  recull*  the  medlieval 
bvneflrenoe  out  or  which  sprang  some  of  the 
chief  educational  Institution*  of  our  own 
country.  I  do  not  say  that  this  munlft- 
ceuce  had  died  out  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury ut  home  or  In  the  older  countries.  In 
one  branch— that  or  publlo  libraries  for  gene- 
ral use,  which  I*  the  ohloi  glory  or  the 
modern  institutions  oi  the  United  Slates, 
as  its  utmost  total  abstinence  Is  th*  chief 
reproach  to  the  metropolis  of  London — In 
these  publlo  libraries  I  understand  that  at 
least  in  Birmingham  a  near  approach  has 
been  '  made  to  the  generosity,  whether  of 
corporation*  or  or  Individuals,  m  tbe 
United  States.  Still  the  freedom,  almost 
the  recklessness,  with  which  these  bene- 
lactlons  are  lavished  beyond  the  Atlantic 
bears  upon  its  lace  tbe  characteristic  of  an 
older  age  reappearing  umidst  our  modern 
civilization  ns  the  granite  boulder  of  some 
earlier  formation.  For  tbe  likenesses  In 
our  English  history  to  John  Harvard,  to 
tbe  ten  worthy  father*  or  Yale,  to  John 
Hopkins,  and  Astor  and  George  Peabody, 
anil  Peter  Cooper,  we  must  look  to  our 
Wvkehoma,  our  Waynfletes,  our  Wolseys, 
at  Oxford,  and  those  whose  names  are  Im- 
mortalised In  Gray's  splendid  Ode. ou  the 
Benefactors  of  Cambridge.  5~ 

POLITICAL   INSTITUTIONS. 

Again,  the  distinct  character,  tho  Inde- 
pendent government,  the  separate  legisla- 
tion of  the  various  Slate*  which  compose 
the  Republic  of  North  America  represent  a 
condition  or  political  society  to  which  mo- 
dern Europe  offers  no  parallel  except  per- 
haps In  tbe  small  Federation  of  Switzer- 
land, nnd  for  which,  on  so  large  a  scale,  we 
must  lor  an  example  go  book  lo  th*  not  yet 
doveloped  Slates  of  Europe  Just  emerging 
from  the  old  Koman  Empire  Into  the  new 
Christian  Empire  of  Charlemagne, .  each 
marked  Indeed  by  the  separate  nation- 
alities which  wero  ^already  beginning  to 
show  themselves,  but  eveii  In  the  sixth 
or  the  ninth  ceulury,  speaking,  a*  in 
the  vast  continent  of  North  America  at 
the  present  day,  at  least  amongst  tb* 
educated  classes,  one  lauguage,  and  sub- 
ject, at  leust  In  name,  to  one  central  Gov- 
ernment.' You  will  not  suppose  that.  In 
thus  referring  to  the  Independence  nnd  di- 
versity of  tbe  different  States  of  America  I 


am  presuming  to  enter  on  that  most  vexed 
of  all  vexed  question*  of  American  politic* 
—the  exact  point  where  the  right*  or  the 
separate  states  terminate  and  the  rights  of 
tbe  Central  Government  begin.  I  treat  or 
It  only  In  Its  general  feature  as  an  unques- 
tionable phenomenon  which  Indicates  that 
the  American  Commonwealth  1*  yst  In  th* 
beginning  ol  political  society,  and  that  tbe 
end  may  be  something  far  different  Irom 
that  which  we  now  heboid. 

CLASSES  IN  THI  UNITED  STATES. 

Again,  In  the  relation*  or  the  laboring 
classes  to  the  educated  and  upper  classes  of 
America,  without  entrenching  on  tb* 
thornv  questions  of  capital  and  labor,  of 
socialism  and  of  political  economy,  whloh 
are  now  beginning  to  agitate  the  New 
World  na  they  agitate  tbe  Old,  there  I*  a 
peculiarity  whloli  exists  in  no  European 
country  at  the  present  time,  and  which  I*  a 
problem  kindred  to  tbe  first  arrangements 
of  the  Stales  ol  the  ancient  olasslca!  world. 
It  Is  the  peollarlty,  by  whloh  mechanical 
and  manual  labor  Is  performed,  for  tbe 
most  part,  not  by  native*,  but  by  lorelgn- 
ers.  What  the  Pelasglans  were  lu  Attica. 
wiiat  iho  Helots  were  In  Sparta,  what  tb* 
Israelites  were  lu  Egypt,  what  the  Canaan- 
Ito*  were  In  Palestine,  what  tb* 
Greek's  generally  call  by  tbe  varying 
names  Parael  or  Periacci~ that  is  to  say,  the 
aboriginal  or  foreign  elements  whloh  the 
ruling  class  appropriated  to  itself  for 
tbeso  Inferior  purpose*  —  tbat.  In  some 
measure,  the  Irish,  tbe  Negroes  and 
tbe  Chinese  are  to  tho  Anglo- 
Saxon  race  of  the  United  Stales.  H  Tjhs 
oflen  been  observed  how  widely  this  diver- 
sity of  tho  Greolau  common  wealths  from 
those  of  modern  Europe  influences  any 
Judgment  which  we  inny  draw  from  them 
and  their  condition  to  ours;  It  Is  not  less 
truo  that  a  like  precaution  Is  reuderod  ne- 
cessary by  the  appearance  of  this  similar 
phenomenon.  In  the  United  States  of  Ame- 
rica. I  might  multiply  indeUuiiely  the  In- 
stances of  this  divergence  In  the  rolntlv* 
slates  of  social  and  political  and  ecclesias- 
tical exlsteuce  In  America  and  Europe. 
Whether  we  condemn  or  approve  the  Insti- 
tutions of  the  United  Slates  or  of'our  twn 
country,  the  main  practical  condition  under 
which  we  must  start  on  auy  comparison  Is,, 
tliut  to  n  very  lame  extent  the  two  spheres 
or  tho  Old  World  and  the  Now  World  are 
almost  as  Incommensurable  us  the  period 
of  Theseus  or  Lycuigus  with  the  age  ol 
A  lex  a  uder.  or  the  period  of  Egberlor  Charles 
Martel  with  the  period  ol  Henry  VIII.  or 
Charles  V. 

EXPECTATIONS  VOB  TUB  FUTUBK. 

But  besides  the  light  whloh  this  view  ot 
American  history  throws  oo  the  past  and 
the  present,  there  Is  also  the  further  ques- 
tion oi  the  light  which  It  throws  upon  tb* 
future.  It  does  not  follow  that  because  a 
nation  like  ours  has  flourished  for  centuries 
it  is  nunr  its  end.  Far  from  us  be  any  such 
desponding  tuiailsm.  Yet  still  It  caiinot.be 
denied  that  the  lunger  the  retrospect  Is, 
there  Is  produced  n  sense  ofsal  iely  or  ol  com- 
pleteness which,  to  a  certain  dearee,  con- 
tracts Hie  vision  oi  tbo  future.  It  Is  the  re- 
verseor  this  feeling  that  i*  produced  by  what 
I  have  culled  the  neur,  aud,  a*  it  were, 
olosoly  present  antiquity  of  th*  American 
Stale*.  Thny  insensibly  look  forward  la 
the  possibility  oi  a  vaster  development  than 
we  do  In  tho  older  nations.  And  thli  ex- 
pectation Is  no  new  thing.  Amidst  all  the 
evil  forebodings,  nud  ull  tbe  failures  of 
American  existence,  it  has  always  bean 
present.  Whuiuer  from  the  reiuarkableclr- 
oumslunceol  it*  flm  beginnings,  certain  it 
la,  that  oven  Irom  very  early  llmos  a  sens* 
oi  a  vast  and  mysterious  destiny  unfolding 
lu  a  distant  future  bud  taken  possession  of 
the  minds  both  or  Americans  and  or  Eng- 
lishmen. Shakspear*  (or  It  may  be  Ben 
Jon«on)  had  but  Just  seen  the  first  dawn  of 
U»a  earnest  settlement  la  Virginia,  and  /•» 
hew«w  able  to  place  in  tbo  month  of  Cran- 
merths  prediction  tbat  In  tbe  foundation 
cf  thetDwn,  and  tbe  river  wblch  bore  the 
n"m,*of  King  Jame*.  there  should  brr 

Mis  honor  nnd  tbe  greatness  of  bta  name 

Shall  make  new  nations." 

"Let  It  not  be  grievous  to  yon,"  was  the 
consolation  offered  from  England  to  tb* 
Pilgrim  Fathers,  "that  von  have  been  In- 
struments lo  break  the  l«  for  others.  Tb* 
honor  shall  be  yours  to  tbe  world's  end,  for 
the  memory  of  the  adventure*  to  this  plan- 
tation shall  never  die."  Bishop  Berkeley, 
who  by  a  strange  rate  was  diverted  Irom  bis 
projects  for  Bermuda  to  settle  on  the  plea- 
sant shore*  of  Rhode  Island/  and  there 
within  tbe  humble  mansion  wHlch  i*  still 
existing,  and  In  the  Jaws  or  an  overhang- 
ing rock,  which  may  still  be  vlslted.com- 


po* ed  one  or  the  finest  of  his  philosophical 
treatises,  wai  Inspired,  at  he  looked  on  the 
scenes  around  htm,  with  a  sadden  enthusi- 
asm, and  uttered  those  larooas  words  which 
have  only  within  the  last  Tear  been  In- 
scribed on  the  portal*  of  the  University  on 
the  shore*  of  the- Pacific — 
"Westward  the  coarse  of  empire  holds  Its 
way." 
Barke.  In  his  magnificent  speech  on. the 
American  colonies,  whilst  descrlblnr  tbem 
f>n  '*a  fierce  people  who  were  still,  as  it 
were,  but  In  the  gristle,  and  not  hardened 
into  the  bone  of  manhood,"  could  not  look, 
at  their  growth  without  marvel,  and  When 
he  spoke  of  them  waa  constrained  to  say, 
"Let  ns  auspicate  alt  onr  proceedings  on 
America,  with  the  old  Cbnrch  cry,  Surtum 
Korda."  We  may  freely  grant  that  these 
predictions.  Impressive  as  they  are,  do  not 
of  necessity  carry  with  them  their  own  fnl- 
fllment.  -  There  fmve  been  predictions  even 
of  a  more  sacred  character  with  regnrd  to 
the  fertanea  of  a  far  more  sacred  people, 
which  have  hitherto  failed  of  their  mil  ac- 
complishment, because  the  nation  of  which 
they  were  spoken  knew  not  the  time  of  her 
visitation,  and  heard  the  Divine  call  with 
closed  ears  and  hardened  heart.  Bnt  the 
peculiarities  of  American  history  on  which 
I  have  dwelt  el  ve  at  least  some  substance  to 
these  lofty  dreams.  When  we  see  how 
young,  how  new,  h»w  primitive  Is  the  form 
of  American  history  and  American  so- 
ciety, It  reveals  to  us  the  possibility— 
nay  ttfe  probability— that  there  Is  still  a 
long  coarse  to  be  run,  that  the  foundation 
of  these  States  is,  as  Penn  said  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, a  neble  experiment  which  it  de- 
pends upon  themselves,  under  God,  to  ac- 
complish or  to  ruin.  The  very  defects  and 
shortcomings  of  the  present  are.  If  not  a 
pledge,  an  Incentive  to  what  may  yet  be  In 
store.  Of  these  defects  I  do  not  apeak. 
They  are  sufficiently  set  forth  In  the  teem- 
ing columns  of  the  American  Journals. 
Many  of  them  belong  to  what  I  have  ven- 
tured to  call  the  mediaeval,  the  lnrantine 
state  of  American  life— some  of  them  have 
already  faded  away  before  the  touch  of  su- 
perior<clvlllzatlon  from  their  own  Eastern 
States — some  before  the  criticism  of  forelgn- 

,erw     ■anaollhtin    «r«    flograut    •till.     Bat 

whether  recently  extinct  or  yet  unsubdued 
they  are  elements  of  a  social  condition,  not 
toward  which  the  civilized  world  la  advanc- 
ing, but   from    whieh    It  ha u  escaped,  et  is 
eaoapinc  century  by  century. 
KIAOAmA. 
And  In  thus  comparing  the  growing  his- 
tory of  the  present  with   the  possible  his- 
tory of  the  tutors,  may  I  be  allowed  to-  nse 
a  figure  which  I   employed   in   one  of  my 
farewell   speeches  to  my    kind   American 
hosts T    In    that  memorable  hoar— memo- 
rable jn   the  life  of  every  one  aa  the  mo- 
ment when   be  first  sees  the  Pyramids  of 
Egypt  or  the  Alps  of  Switzerland— when  I 
first  stood  before  the  Cataracts  of  Niagara, 
it  seemed  to  me  that  the  scene  which  I  wit- 
nessed was  not  an  unapt  likeness  of  the  for- 
tunes  of  America.    It   was  midnight;  the 
moon   was   lull,  and   I  saw   irora  the  vast 
bridge   which  spans  the  river  the  ceaseless 
contortion,    confusion,    whirl    and    chaos 
which  hnrst  forth  in  clouds  of  foam  from  that 
central  ohasm  which  divides  the  American 
from  the  British  dominions, and  as  I  looked 
on  that  ever-changing  movement,  and  lis- 
tened to  that  everlasting  roar,  it  seemed  an 
emblem  af  the  fermenting,  perplexed,   be- 
wildering  activity,  the  ceaseless,    restless, 
beating  whir  pool  of  existence  In  the  United 
States.     Bnt  into  the  moonlight  sky  there 
rose  a  cloud  of  spray  twice  as  high  as   the 
Fulls  themselves— silent,  majestic,  immov- 
able.   That  silver  column,  glittering  in  the 
moonlight,  seemed  an  lmaee  of  the  future 
of    American    history  —  of     the    upward, 
benven-asplring     destiny     which     should 
emerge  from  the  distractions  of  i  he  present. 
Let  me  explain.  In  a  few  words  wherein  that 
pillar  of  light  has  an  historical  substance  In 
lact,  which  may  lead  us  to  hope  that  It  will 
not  vanish  away  with   the  morning  light, 
but  may   continue    to  guide   the  coming 
times  or  the  United  Stated. 

THE  NATIONAL    CHARACTER. 

And  for  this  purpose  I  select  three  points, 
drawn  from  the  history  of  the  past,  which 
conduce  to  confidence,  which.  If  not  with- 
out "trembling,"  still  "reJolces"a!ways 
and  on  which  I  venture  to  Insist  because 
they  bear  practically  on  an  educational  lu- 
stltutlou  like  this.  First,  there  is  the 
■narked  peculiarity  apparent  almost  from 
tne  first,  the  stngu/itr  buoyancy  nod  elas- 
ticity both  of  the  national  and  Individual 
character.  It  may  be  the  product  or  their 
brilliant,    exhilarating,    invigorating    cll- 


87 
mate:  it  may  be  the  accompaniment  of  the 
vast  horizon  opened  by  their  boundless  ter- 
ritory; it  may  be  partly  the  youth  of  the 
Nation,  on  which  I  have  so  much  enlarged 
in  this  address;  but  Its  existence  ^unques- 
tionable. If  at  times  there  is  something  al- 
most or  levity  In  the  readiness  with  which 
misfortunes  are  thrown  off  and  life  begun 
over  again;  If  attlmesthe  more  sober  part 
of  the  Nation  is  depressed  by  the  sense 
of  the  difficulties  which  they  have 
to  encounter ;  yet.  on  the-  whole,  this 
spring  of  vitality.  If  turned  .to  good 
account,  must  be  of  incalculable  value  In 
this  working  world,  where  the  Imagination 
still  plays  so  large  a  part,  and  where  so 
much  Is  given  to  confidence  of  victory,  even 
more  than  to  victory  itself,.  If  perchance 
the  UnltedStates  have  too  much  01  it,  we, 
it  may  be,  bave  too  little;  and  this  confi- 
dence of  Americana  in  their  own  political, 
ecclesiastical  and  social  system.  Is  a  warn- 
ing to  u*  to  rise  above  those  doleful  lament- 
ations with  which  In  these  days  we  often 
hear  citizens  and  Churchmen,  Christians  of 
England, den palrof  our  country, our  Church 
and  our  religion.  Secondly,  there  are  the 
element*  of  that  character  which  they  pos- 
sess In  common -with  the  English  race,  with 
which  their  past  history  shows  It  to  be  in 
so  many  respects  Identical.  In  spite  of 
some  dark  aud  sinister  feature*  in  both 
countries,  there  is  on  the  whole  the  same 
keen  appreciation  or  the  delights  of  pur* 
domestic  life.  In  spite  of  the  lawlessness 
which  is,  perbapa,  the  Inevitable  outburst 
urtl ib  ovane*vcwew-af-wa*»m*Ms4t!«a  atnty-es 
fully  organized,  there  is  on  the  wholeln  the 
mass  of  the  people  something  of  the  same 
sell-control  aad  common  sense,  and  love  ol 
freedom,  and  obedience  to  law  on  which  wo 
pride  ourselves,  and  which  we  are  glad  to 
recognize  in  our  descendants.  And  these 
points  of  oon  tact  bet  w«n  the  Mother  Coun- 
try and  the  Daughter  Stales  not  only  are 
themselves  encouraging,  but  they  derive 
additional  force  from  the  guarantee  which 
they  give  that  the  union  between  the  two, 
though  severed  by  the  revolution  of  the  last 
oenturv,  Is,  In  the  essential  elements-  of 
character  and  social  sympathy,  yet  un- 
broken. We  no  doubt  may  have  ranch  to 
learn  from  America;  bat  II  this  closeness  of 
sympathy  and  hoiuogeueousness  of  race  Is 
still  maintained,  they  will  always  have 
something  to  learn  from  ua,  and  will,  w* 
trust,  be  not  unwilling  to  receive  It.  Ill* 
a  solemn  responsibility  which  this  recollec- 
tion of  American  history  Impresses  upon 
us,  that,  as  we  were  their  lathers,  so.  in 
large  measure,  we  are  responsible  for 
thorn— our  children,  responsible  because 
they  sprang  from  lis,  but  yet  more  respon- 
sible because  our  good  or  evil  actions 
still  produce  a  direct  Impression  on  their 
susceptible  minds.  Commercial  dishonesty, 
blind  political  partisanship,  demagogic, 
stratagems,  frivolous  luxury  in  English  so- 
ciety, are  a  stong  Incentive  to  any  like 
vices  which  appear  In  the  kindred  stock; 
and  on  the  other  band,  every  attempt  on 
our  part  to  maintain  refinement  of  man- 
ners, truthlul  dealing,  a  policy  that  does 
not  tend  lo  popular  fashion,  simplicity  aud 
self-control  in  social  life,  act  and  havo acted 
with  Immense  force  In  promoting  the  like 
vlnue»  beyond  the  Atlantic  "It  Is  the 
spirit  of  the  British  Constitution,"  say* 
Burke,  "which,  Infused  through  the 
mighty  mass  of  the  English  settlements, 
pervades,  feeds,  unites,  Invigorates  every 
part,  even  down  to  the  minutest."  Our 
kinsmen  beyond  the  sea  may  be  nattered 
for  the  moment  by  being  told  that  they  are 
a  nation  stronger  aud  greater  than  we:  But 
they  have  too  much  sense,  they  know  our 
Joint  history  loo  well,  to  repudiate  or  dis- 
parage their  English  parentage  and  their 
ancient  home.  * 

TBR   LITKRATtTIlL  0T  AMERICA. 

Thirdly.  — With  them  a*  with  us,  in  spit* 
of  the  overwhelming  forces  of  uneducated 
or  half-educated  Ignorance  and  fanatlolsm, 
there  Is  the  chance  that  the  voice  of  the 
reasonable  few  may  more  and  more  make 
Itself  heard.  It  is  In  literature  (and  for 
this  reason  I  call  the  attention  of  tbl*  In- 
stitute to  the  fact)  that  this  voice  1*  chiefly 
to  be  beard  and  felt.  The  literature  of  Ame- 
rica Is  still  young;  but  that  small  butaeleot 
band  who  are  Its  leaders  bave  exerolsed.and 
still  may  exercise,  a  controlling  effect  by 
their  Increasing  Identification  with  the.bet- 
ter  elements  of  the  nation.  It  was  Wash- 
ington Irving  who  first  knit  together  those 
bonds  of  family  and  domestic  sympathy 
between  England  and  America  of  which  I 
have  Just  spoken.  After  the  violent  dis- 
ruption which  tore  us  asunder,  he  bad 
the  grace  and   the  courago  to    diffuse  tils 


own  kindly  and  genial  feeling  from  his 
sunny  cottage  on  the  banks  ol  the  Hudson 
through  the  lurid  atmosphere  which  bad 
been  produced  by  the  successive  war*  of 
1775  and  1812.  Westminster  Abbey,  Strat- 
ford-on- Avon,  and  Abbotsford  were  trans- 
figured in  the  eyes  of  Amorlcan*  by  hi* 
charming  ".Sketch  Book,"  aud  from  thaw 
time  ha*  sot  in  the  pllgrlmageof  Americans 
to  our  English  shrines  which  baa  never 
ceased,  and  which  oannol  but  render  any 
future  dislocation  of  the  two  countries  more 
difficult.  Bryant,  Longfellow  and  Whit- 
tier  have  done  perhaps  even  a  greater  ser- 
vice by  touching-  wilb  the  sweetness  and 
the  light  of  their  poetry  soenes  porhupa 
before  hardly,  known  in  the  natural  ob- 
jects and  the  historic  splendor  ol  their 
own  country.  Bryaut,  to  use  the  words 
of  a  distinguished  American  eoolesias- 
tlc,  first  entered  the  heart  of  America 
through  the  Gate  Bcautllul.  When  we 
see  the  Green  River  and  the  rooky  elopes 
or  the  hills  pi  Berkshire,  we  feel  that 
he  did  for  thorn  something  of  what  Words- 
worth effected  for  the  lakes  aud  mountains 
of  Westmoreland,  Longfellow  and  Wblt-< 
iter  achieved  their  lame,  not  only  by  those 
poems  which  appeal  to  the  goneral  liuuinota 
of  mankind,  aud  are  entwined  with  the) 
sacred  recollections  of  Europe,  but  they 
also  attached  themselves  directly  to  the 
legends  of  the  early  Inhabitants  ol  the 
Northern  Continent,  and  to  the  stirring 
scenes  of  the  great  conflicts,  both  of  Ame- 
rica with  England,  and  of  the  Northern  aail 
Southern  States.  The  romances  of  Haw- 
thorne, which  connect  themselves  with  Ita- 
lian life,  may  to  us  for  the  moment  have 
the  most  Interest,  but  those  which  shall 
possess  the  most  enduring  value  are  the 
strange  scenes  of  Now  Euglund  in  tbeslreeta 
ol  Boston  and  of  Salem.  Such  patbetio  and 
elevated  sentiments,  go  Intermingled  with 
national  sentiment,  must  have  a  share  Id 
raising  the  nation  above  the  rustic  murmur 
of  parochial  or  municipal  it  lo  into  the  great 
wave  that  echoes  round  the  world.  And) 
yet  further.  It  is  not  only  in  this  more  sub* 
tie  and  Indirect  manner  that  the  writing* 
and  life  voices  of  the  few  may  guide  the 
opinions  and  passions  of  the  many,  it 
is  by  thoso  direct  lessons  of  wisdom  anifj 
moderation  which  now  and  then  the  lew 
have  the  courago  to  u iter,  and  the  many 
have  the  good  sense  to  welcome.  In  Uvea* 
hitter  days  It  has  been  sometimes  tinpllet 
tliut  the  uneducated  classes  are  always  rigb 
and  the  educated  classes  ulwsys  wrung. 

Tin-:  need  or  a  uiaiiEa  INBPiKATlON. 

But  lii  every  neighborhood,  und  not  lea* 
In  this  grout  ceutre  of  popular  lilt*,  fron; 
time  to  lliile  wo  meet  with  instances  wulcl 
reveal  tons,  us  with  a  ligbiulug  Hash,  lot 
need  of  higher  inspiration*.  The  inosl 
widely  spreud  aud  deeply  rooted  of  populal 
Illusions  In  our  lime  received.  If  I  mistake 
not,  lis  first  mortal  wound  when  an  elo- 
queut  voice  from  Birmingham,  beloved 
also  In  America,  had  the  boldness  to  de- 
nounce It  a*  a  •  round  less  and  miserable 
Imposture.  Aud  lh  the  close  of  the 
eighteenth  century  it  I*  never  to  be 
forgoiton  that  the  last  of  the  Pilgrim 
Futhers,  as  we  may  call  him,  who  was 
forced  to  mlgrute  for  oouacleuca'*  sake  from 
England  lo  America,  took  reiuge  In  the  so- 
litudes oi  Pennsylvania,  driven  hence,  not 
by  king  or  bishop,  but  by  tu-  Illiterate  moh 
of  Birmingham— the  Illustrious  martyr  of 
freedom  and  science.  Joseph  Priestley.  We 
all  now  uckuowledge  that  the  mob)  was 
wrong,  and  that  the  few  who  would  have 

tolerated  Priestley  were  right.  This  aid* 
mat*  deference  to  mature  knowledge  and 
generous  sentiment*  I*  a*  needful  to  culti- 
vate In  the  Institute*  of  onr  great  English 
towns  a*  In  the  UnltedStates  of  America, 
It  was  only  this  year  that  the  venerable 
sage  who  stands  at  the  bead  of  American 
literature  ventured  In  a  lecture  cm  the 
"Fortunes  of  the  Republic"  to  point 
oat  one  by  oue  the  salient  faults  of 
bis  countrymen,  to  express  his  cer- 
tainty that  their  civilization  is  yet  in- 
complete,, that  it  has  not  yet  ended  or 
glveu  sign*  of  ending  In  a  hero.  It  1* 
this  modesty,  this  sense  of  incompleteness, 
that  entitles  him  to  close  with  the  expres- 
sion of  the  calm  trust  In  tbelr  future.  '*OsuT 
helm,"  he  says,  "is  given  up  to  a  better 
hand  than  our  own.  Our  Utile  wherry  U 
tukenTn  tow  by  the  ship  of  the  Great  Ad- 
miral, which-  know*  lu  way,  and  has  the 
force  to  draw  men,  and  States,  and  planet* 
to  their  gosl.  Such  and  so  potent  Is  this 
high  method  by  which  the  Divln*  Provi- 
dence veils  tbe  cbietest  benefits  under  the 
mask  of  calamities,  that  we  shall  not  by 
perverse  Ingenuity  prevent  tbe  Messing.** 


In  like  maimer  It  was  on*  oi   ine   most 
striking  feature*  of   that  banqnet  at  Salem, 
of  which  I  spoke   at   tb«  beginning  of  ttati 
address,  to  bear  the  Impuwlonrd  recitation 
of  a  rigorous  ode  by  a  gifted  scalp  tot  and 
poet,  a  native  of  that  American  Tillage,  bat 
well-known  in  this  country  and  In  Europe, 
who  spoke  to  his  countrymen  words  of  ter- 
rible remonstrance,  which   were  received 
not  with   reprobation   and   aversion,    bat 
with  significant  and   universal  applause. 
He  evidently  had  In  bis  mind  that  abstrac- 
tion or  Hie  hi  nber  order  of  characters  from 
public  aflalrs   which,   though    happily  do* 
yet  seen  amongst  ourselves,  is  said  to  pre- 
vail  at  least  In   the  Northern    State*  of 
America.     He  blamed 
"The  careless  trust,  that  happy  luck 
'  Will  save  us,  come  what  may— 
The  apathy  with  which  we  see  '  ■. 

Our  country's  dearest  Interest  struck, 
Dreaming  that  things  will  right  themselves. 

Tbat  brings  dismay. 
"No!  things  will  never  right  themselves, 

'Tls  w*  must  put  them  right," 

He  rebuked  those  who 
"Apart  In  selfish  silence  stand. 

Hating  the  danger  and  the  wrong, 
And  yet  too  busy  to  uplift  their  band  < 

And  do  the  duties  that  belong 
To  those  who  would  ha  ire*. " 

He  called  en  the 

'  'Noble  men  and  true 

High,    low,    young,    old,    wherever  yo» 
may  he. 
Awake !  arise f  east  off  this  lethargy, 

Your  ancient  ffllth  renew. 
And  set  your  hands  to  do  the  task- 

Tbat  freemen  have  to  do. ' ' 

He  bade  them 
"Cleanse  the  A  ugean  stall  of  politic* 
Of  Its  loul  muck  ef  cruiia.  and  wiles,  and 

tricks  ; 
Drri  - uhe  base  nugs  where  commerce  reeks' 

and  rot*. 
Purge  speculation  or  lis  canker- spot*." 

He  bade  bis  sleeping  country  rise 
"And  forward  go  upon  the  path 

Of  Its  high  desti  riles. " 

Words  like  these,  so  altered  and  so  re- 
ceived, cannot  bnt  beget  a  hope  tbat  the 
country  lor  which  tbey  were  written,  and 
in  which  they  were  spoken,  has  yet  within 
it  the  instruments  01  regeneration,  and  the 
germs  oi  future  greatness.  And  as  tbey  give 
a  forcible— perhaps  too  forcible— representa- 
tion of  the  dangers  and  hope*  which  He 
wrapt  up  In  the  history  of  America,  so  also, 
conscious  of  that  affinity  of  which  I  baVe 
before  spoken  which  unite*  the  two  coun- 
tries together,  I  venture  to  quote  them  here 
in  the  feeling  that  by  analogy  they  are 
appUcable  also  to  England.  Not  only 
they  In  tbelr  youth  and  freshness,  bnt 
we  In  our  green  old  age,  need  to*  be 
reminded  that  we  also.  In  spite  of  Oar  long 
ancettral  traditions,  and  "the  ancient  In- 
bred integrity"  ol  the  English  natlou.ha.ve 
kincred  dangers  threatening  ns  on  the 
right  band  and  on  the  leit.  Our  safety,  like 
theirs,  lies  in  listening  to  the  voice  of  those 
few  noble  souls  and  hlgb  Intelligence*  who 
rise  above  the  passions  of  party  and  the  sor- 
did Interests  oi  the  moment,  who  have  tbe 
wisaom  not  merely  to  denounce  but  to  dis- 
criminate; and  the  desire  not  merely  to 
preserve  or  destroy,  but  to  improve  and 
bring  to  perfection  the  lnh«riUneecomnWl- 
ted  to  our  trust.  > 

SYMPATHY  1*1  TEI     ftUKES'J    AFniCTIOH. 

When  speaking  ol  the  common  sentiment 
which  animates  a  nation  In  the  presence  of 
the  deeper  and  hlgbercbaractersand  deeper 
thoughts  I  should  not  be  doing  Justice  to 
your  feeling,  nor  I  may  add,  to  tbe  feelings 
of  the  great  Republic  wbiob  we  have  been 
oODslderltig,  if  I  did  not  touch  on  tbe 
ml  ogled  grief  and  respect  which  will  beve 
pervadecfall  true  English  hearts  on  either 
side  of  the  ocean  when  tbey  hear  of  tbe 
stroke  of  sorrow  with  which  tbe  Royal 
family  of  this  country  has  been  Visited 
on  a  day  already  signalized  as  the  most 
mourntul  In  the  annals  of  tbelr  house, 
She  who  la  gone  from  us  first  became 
known  to  the  publlo  of  England  through 
ha*  noble  conduct  by  tbe  deathbed  of 
her  father,  once  so  well  known  la  this 
city,  and  she  has  -now  fallen  a  sacrifice 
as  every  wife  and  to  other  In  this  assem- 
bly will  reel,  to  tbe  devoted  care  with  which 
she  nursed  her  husband  and  children.  Bat 
she  also  belonged  to  that  higher  order  of  In- 
telligence and  goodness  ol  which  we  have 
been  speaking.  She -cared  foraU  that  could 
elevate  her  (el  low -creatures;  and  tr  her 
exalted  rank  gaveherlarger  means  of  mak- 
ing ber  beneficent  Influence  felt.  It  will  not 


be  grudged  to  ber  In  any  home  or  In  any 
institution,  whether  of  the  Old  or  of  the 
New  World.  Her  life  will  not  have  been 
spent  la  vain  if  it  has  shown  what  an  Eng- 
lish woman  ounao  by  tbeuuselflshdlschacge 
of  the  duties  of  ber  station— ber  death  will 
not  have  been  In  vain  if  It  has  cansed  many 
hearts  to  beat  in  closer  sympathy  with  tbe 
solitude  of  a  desolate  home,  and  with 
tbe  sorrows  of  a  family,  which  the  whole 
Anglo-Saxon  race  throughout  the  world 
claims  as  Its  own  peculiar  property..  In 
that  banquet  at  Salem,  to  which  I  have  al- 
ready referred,  there  was  one  moment.. and 
one  only,  when  the  whole  assembly  rose  to 
their  feet  and  stood  In  respectful  reverence.. 
It,  was  when,  after  proposing  "Our  old 
homes,"  there  was  sung  tbe  English  na- 
tional anthem,  "God  save  the  Q,ueen," 
Tbat  same  sentiment  will.  I  am  sure.  Inspire 
thousands  of  American  hearts  to  respond  at 
this  season  In  a  yet  deeper  and  more  solemn 
sense  to  the  prayer  in  which  we  all  Jol 
* '  God  aa ve  and  bless  the  Queen.  •* 


88 


"o  o  u  v  "Z  "3 

■S5-S  sIS 

rZ  e  «    _ 

5  «  >°  — T       a] 
•£>  **-e  3  s  -2 

o  §f i-s 

C  £  M  "3  o  *2 
•H  8  o  3  cS 


53  B  P 

if*! 


89 


recently  an  inmate.  Here,  for  half  a  century,  away 
from  the  fret  and  clangor  of  the  restless  world,  he  enun- 
ciated truths  in  such  forms  as  his  genius  has  already 
made  classical.  Through  those  pellucid  depths  which 
reveal  his  thoughts,  he  is  so  little  subject  to  distortion 
or  passion,  so  pure  and  flawless,  that  he  seems  distant 
as  Plato.  Already  we  see  the  harmony  of  his  propor- ' 
tions  as  though  ages  had  evolved  that  atmosphere  which 
tones  the  sage  into  a .  symmetry  as  statuesque  as  the 
grandest  of  the  Greeks.  To  the  busy  littlenesss  of  com- 
mon minds  he  is  as  lofty  and  unapproachable  as  Mont 
Blanc  to  the  loiterer  in  the  streets  of  Geneva.  And  yet 
such  was  the  charm  of  his  simple  manliness  that  to  his 
fellow-townspeople  all  things  connected  with  him  are 
set  apart  as  something  sacred. 

Up  the  village  street  a  mile  or  so,  where  the  elms 
grow  still  more  stately,  we  come  to  the  brown  cottage 
at  the  left,  where  the  veteran  Alcott,  the  dean  of  the 
faculty,  the  most  transcendent  of  all  transcendentalists, 
has  lived  for  thirty  years.  The  philosophy  of  this  brood- 
ing mystic  is  eminently  Pythagorean.  One  looks  vainly 
in  three  volumes  from  his  pen  for  the  secret  of  his 
leadership  among  his  circle  of  admirers.  That  is  to  be 
found  in  the  perfect  sincerity  of  a  life  which  seeks  to  rind 
and  obey  spiritual  laws,  and  to  make  practical  ideal 
truth.  He  is  eminently  a  teacher,  but  his  instructions 
have  been  given  through  parlor  conversations  in  East- 


the  green  peninsula  on  which  his  cottage  stands,  rise 
dark,  dark  highlands,  where  evergreens  ever  murmur  of 
mystery  and  shadow.  His  shy,  gentle  genius,  shunning 
the  vulgar  noonday  blaze  of  curiosity,  loved  to  dwell 
within  this  twilight  land. 

Through  all  these  paths  about  us  Thoreau  zigzagged 
his  way,  like  the  animals  he  studied,  to  keep  his  tryst 
with  some  wood-bird,  or  celebrate  the  opening  of  the 
first  April  bloom  ;  all  equally  secretive,  capricious  and 
elusive  of  human  companionship. 

At  nine  o'clock  we  go  back  to  the  Hillside  Chapel,  to 
hear  the  morning  lesson.  Like  a  growth  out  of  the 
ground  or  a  nest  burrowed  in  the  hill,  it  invites  to  repose- 
ful quiet.  The  sunshine  sifts  through  the  vine-draped 
windows  with  a  mellow  radiance,  as  if  indulgent  toward 
these  later  incarnations  of  the  brooding  spirit  of  philoso- 
phy, which,  Mowing  from  the  shadowy  Orient,  lingered 
long  about  the  groves  of  Greece,  and  bathed  them  in  its 
subtle  splendor. 

Within  nothing  disturbs  the  eye  or  the  mind.  Se- 
verely plain,  the  only  decorations  are  plaster  busts  of 
older  and  later  lovers  of  wisdom,  with  that  of  John 
Brown  in  the  place  of  honor. 

In  the  centre  of  the  platform  sits  the  lecturer,  reading 
from  notes  or  speaking  in  conversational  tones.  At  the 
right  of  the  teacher  sits  Miss  Peabody,  ever  ready  to  say 
a  pertinent  or  suggestive  word,  and  F.  B.  Suuborn,  re- 


THB   HILI.8IUE   CHAPEL. 


era  and  Western  towns.  He  aims  to  unite  noble  sim- 
plicity and  true  culture.  Mr.  Alcott 's  majestic  mien 
and  benignant  features  indicate  an  easily-working  and 
harmonious  nature,  rather  than  one  varied  and  profound. 
In  the  corner  room  of  the  quaint  old  house,  which  for 
a  year  has  been  occupied  by  Professor  Harris,  his  daugh- 
ter Louisa  wrote  her  "  Little  Women"  and  many  another 
delightful  book,  and  behind  it  is  the  studio  of  her  sister 
May,  "Our  Madonna,"  with  her  girlish  sketches  still 
on  the  walls.  As  we  follow  along  the  road  we  soon 
come  to  the  old  home  of  Hawthorne,  who  dwelt  on  the 
border-land  separating  shadow  from  substance.     About 


former,  editor  and  author,  or  Dr.  Bartol,  the  gentle 
preacher.  At  the  left  is  always  seen  the  Dean  of  the 
Faculty,  Mr.  Alcott,  upon  wh'ose  brow  the  blossoms  of 
eighty-three  years  have  lightly  faded  into  autumn 
wreaths.  Beyond  him  may  be  Dr.  McCosh,  of  Prince- 
ton, who  has  given  one  lecture  on  Scottish  philosophy, 
or  Dr.  Ireneeus  Prime,  of  the  New  York  Observer,  or 
some  other  interested  visitor.  In  front  sits  Alexander 
Wilder,  Professor  of  Psychological  Science  in  the  United 
States  Medical  College  of  New  York,  an  encyclopedic 
mystic,  translator  of  Iamblichus,  and  author  of  many 
abstruse  essays.     Dr.  Wilder  has  given  a  lecture  upon 


90 

'jam.  '.'*»gB)''T*?a"n— 


^W^K^'/^/  v 


DR.  BARTOL. 


Alexandrian  Platonism,  beside  contributing  many  con- 
versations. 

All  these  are  from  the  East.  Still,  we  may  be  sure 
that  nothing  important  can  arise,  but  the  broad,  free, 
generous  genius  of  the  West  will  voice  itself  most  un- 
mistakably. Two  of  the  faculty,  seldom  absent— Pro- 
fesstfr  W.  T.  Harris,  of  Missouri,  and  Dr.  H.  K.  Jones, 
of  Illinois — may  be  said  to  embody  much  of  the  u  sweet- 
ness and  light "  of  the  Concord  School. 

Professor  Harris,  fourteen  years  ago,  founded  the 
Journal  of  Speculative  Philosophy,  which  was  for  a  long 
time  the  only  magazine  of  the  kind  in  the  English 
language :  the  Platonist,  also  published  in  St.  Louis, 
has  been  established  since  by  Thomas  M.  Johnson.  But 
Mr.  Harris  is  more  popularly  known  for  his  work  in 
forming  the  admirable  school  system  of  the  "Western 
States,  while  Superintendent  of  Public  Schools  in  Mis- 


souri.   Many  of  his  essays  have  been  translated  and  re- 
published abroad. 

Professor  Harris,  who  may  be  called  a  devoted  stu- 
dent of  Hegel,  while  ranging  with  freedom  over  the 
field  of  metaphysics,  gave  last  summer  five  lectures 
on  the  History  of  Philosophy  and  three  on  Fichte. 
Besides,  he  contributed  an  address  at  the  Emerson  Me- 
morial, on  the  22d  of  July,  upon  the  Dialectical  Unity 
of  Emerson's  Prose.  Clear  as  a  mathematical  proposi- 
tion, his  mind  works  with  extraordinary  celerity.  In- 
cisive and  versatile,  he  darts  from  philosophy  to  history, 
art  or  science  with  an  elan  which  is  American  in  me- 
thod, and  German  in  subtlety.  He  corruscates  light, 
not  heat.  Sharp  and  clear  as  a  crystal  with  many 
facets,  he  represents  the  intellectual,  the  knowing  side 
of  man.  It  is  remarkable  to  see  how  he  analyses  and 
condenses  the  chief  thoughts  In  a  lecture,  in  the  discus- 


91 


sion  which  follows,  presupposing  a  wide  and  quick  in- 
telligence fn  the  hearer.  To  follow  his  lectures  is  to  be 
conversant  with  the  sum  of  metaphysical  thought. 

Dr.  Jones,  the  Platonist,  leads  the  audience  gently  on, 
step  by  step,  toward  that  "central  peace  subsisting  at 
the  heart  of  endless  agitation."  lie  is  surcharged  with 
that  intense  feeling  which  comes  from  consecration  to 
the  highest,  best  and  truest  which  can  bo  attained 
through  effort  and  discipline.  His  may  be  called  that 
intellectual  affection  which  glows  and  burns  with  the 
"light  that  never  was  on  sea  or  Land,"  the  warm  re- 
fulgence of  which  must  irradiate  the  royal  spirit  through 
its  progressive  and  deathless  career.  In  his  reverential 
nature,  Philosophy  is  "allied  to  the  love  of  the  soul  for 
the  true,  the  good  and  the  beautiful. "  It  is  not  divorced 
from  life ;  it  lives  in  the  heart  of  things,  a  Divine  es- 
sence, shaping  the  external,  plastic  form.  His  teachings 
are  eminently  and  practically  ethical.  He  has  grasped 
the  wondrous  thread  of  unity,  which  binds  together  all 


found  insight  exhibited,  but  great  eloquence,  power  and 
poesy  found  expression. 

As  the  head  of  the  Plato  Club  of  Jacksonville,  Dr. 
Jones  has  been  for  nearly  a  score  of  years  a  teacher  of 
ethics.  But  his  lectures  during  the  last  season  have 
reached  such  a  height  of  eloquence,  poesy  and  power  in 
their  bearing  upon  personal  conduct  as  will  serve  to 
make  him  more  widely  known.  For  it  is  generally  con- 
ceded that  there  are  significant  evidences  from  many 
quarters  of  a  new  pulsation  in  the  stagnant  ocean  of 
life,  which,  in  its  dykes  of  immovable  dogma,  was  fast 
losing  its  power  of  quenching  the  spiritual  thirst  of  the 
immortal  nature.  Alive  to  the  need  that  those  waters 
should  be  stirred  to  their  very  depths,  Dr.  Jones'  fervid 
but  restrained  temperament  inclines  him  to  point  out 
the  universal  sweep  of  Divine  laws,  which  must  over- 
ride the  narrow  bounds  of  mere  dogmatic  theology  and 
purify  the  very  fountains  of  human  aspiration. 

It  will  be  seen  that  out  of  the  forty-four  sessions — one 


BRONSON    AI-OOTT'B   HOME. 


peoples  in  all  ages,  and  never  forgets  that  it  is  a  golden 
cord  running  upward  to  the  very  heart  of  Divine  life. 

Dr.  Jones'  eight  lectures  this  summer  ranged  through 
an  extended  course  of  Christian  philosophy,  showing  not 
only  its  premises,  but  its  relations  to  common  sense, 
science  and  experience.  In  his  second  course  on  the 
"  Old  and  New,"  on  the  "  Philosophy  of  Religion  and  the 
Law  of  the  Supernatural,"  and  the  "Community  of 
Faiths  and  Worships  in  Mankind,"  not  only  was  pro- 


held  every  evening,  except  Saturday — Professor  Harris 
and  Dr.  Jones  occupied  more  than  one-third. 

Woman  was  most  worthily  represented  upon  this  ethi-* 
cal  platform  by  Julia  Ward  Howe,  brilliant  leader  of 
society,  preacher,  reformer,  essayist,  poet,  the  tocsin  of 
whose  "  Battle  Hymn  of  the  Republic"  resounded  above 
the  din  of  war ;  by  Miss  Elisabeth  Peabody,  the  vener- 
able pioneer  of  American  kindergartens,  the  friend  and 
biographer  of  Chancing,  who,  with  Mrs.  Horace  Mann 


92 


And  Mrs.  Hawthorne,  formed  a  triune  sisterhood  of 
conspicuous  ability  ;  and  Ednah  D.  Cheney,  art-critic, 
author  and  philanthropist,  as  well  as  by  many  who  fol- 
lowed the  discourses  with  unflagging  interest.  Some  of 
these  acute  listeners  and  questioners  were  from  the  West, 
and  have  traveled  a  thousand  miles  to  be  here  summer 
after  summer. 

Mrs.  Howe's  two  lectures  were  on  "  Idols  and  Icono- 
clasts" and  on"  Sociology ;"  Miss  Pcabody's  on  "  Child- 
hood," and  Mrs.  Cheney's  on  "Nature."  Two  very 
Interesting  ones  were  by  F.  B.  Sanborn  upon  "  Oracular 
Poetry,"  with  illustrative  extracts ;  and  one  evening  was 
devoted  by  Mr.  Blake  to  readings  from  unpublished 
manuscripts  by  Thoreau. 

There  was  also  a  discussion  on  ' '  The  Nature  of  Know- 
ledge—Emerson's Way,"  by  Dr.  Bartol;  on  "Color," 
by  G.  P.  Lathrop  ;  on  "  Poetry,"  by  John  Albee,  one 
each  by  Professor  C.  E.  Garman  and  Dr.  R.  A.  Holland, 
of  Chicago.  There  were  three  on  "  8chelling,"  by  Pro- 
fessor Watson,  of  Kingston,  two  by  Professor  G.  H. 
Howison,  two  by  Rowland  G.  Hazard,  and  one  by  Pre- 
sident Porter,  of  Tale,  on  "  Kantian  Ethics."  Mr.  Al- 
cott  delivered  three  lectures,  marked  by  his  own  peculiar 
■Scope  of  thought  and  felicity  of  language,  in  which 
"Human  and  Divine  Personality"  were  presented  for 
consideration. 


The  first  Saturday  of  the  school  session  was  com- 
memorative of  Emerson,  whose  face  looked  in  serene 
approval  of  this  symposia  in  preceding  years.  Many  of 
those  who  have  been  mentioned  participated  in  the  ex- 
ercises, which  were  held  in  the  Town  Hall,  and  were 
less  laudatory  than  affectionately  appreciative  of  the 
seer  and  his  mission.  There  was  loving  recognition  of 
the  debt  due  him  from  the  entire  world  of  ethics  which 
was  incomparably  generous  and  pathetic. 

The  lectures  close  and  the  little  band  separates.  Each 
takes  with  him  all  he  has  been  able  to  appropriate. 
Time  only  can  record  the  influence  upon  thinkers  at 
large  of  these  who  here  have  congregated.  Laymen 
may  question  the  wisdom  of  all  the  weary  weight  of  ab- 
struse learning  which  they  seek  to  formulate  ;  but  none 
can  doubt  their  refined  and*  hospitable  courtesy,  their 
devotion  to  intrinsic  truth,  their  rejection  of  extrinsic 
gaud  and  greed,  their  fraternal  and  unworldly  motives, 
their  devotion  to  true  goodness,  and  their  desire  for  the 
revival  of  those  genuine  primitive  virtues  which  consti- 
tute the  heart  of  ideal  religion.  In  that  grand  philo- 
sophical religion  of  the  future,  which  must  circum- 
scribe all  essential  and  indestructible  principles,  the 
Concord    School   of  Philosophy  will   certainly  fill   a 

worthy  place. 

HBSTtm  M.  Poota. 


CONCORD  PHILOSOPHY 


The  Transoendentalists   Investigating  the 
Spirit  of  Qoetha, 


Relations  of  the   German   Poet  to  English 

Literature  a  Toplo  of  DUeossloD — Cnpub- 

Uthed  Paper*  of  Thoretu   Read 

by  HU  Literary    Executor. 


Special  Correspondence  of  Tux  Pais*, 
Cowcord,  July  25. — The  second  week  of  the 
lectures  on  Goethe  has  closed  with  a  remarkable 
essay  by  Professor  Thomas  Davidson  on  the 
"Titanic  Sin"  of  Goethe— that  ia,  his  revolt  in 
youth  against  established  authority,  and  his 
mode  of  viewing  the  heavenly  powers,  against 
whom  the  Titans  of  old  rose  in  rebellion.  He 
debated  freely  the  other  lectures,  and  has  a 
store  of  the  Scottish  love  of  disputation,  so  that 
he  compared  himself  the  other  day  to  the '  'spirit 
that  denies,"  in  "Faust"  He  does  not  take 
the  same  view  of  that  work  which  Dr.  Harris 
and  Mr.  Snider  do,  and  last  night  he  dis- 
sented a  little  from  Dr.  L.  F.  Soldan's  exposi- 
tion of  4be  relation  between  Descartes  and 
Spinoza,  and  between  Spinoza  and  Goethe — the 
latter  being  Dr.  Soldan's  special  topic,  which 
he  treated  very  fully. 

The  early  part  of  the  week  was  given  to  liter- 
ary subjects,  the  lecture  on  Monday  morning 
being  ibe  first  of  Dr.  Harris'  on  "Faust,"  in 
which  he  gave  a  critical  analysis  of  the  first 
part  of  "Faust,"  and  also  an  historical  sketch  of 
the  tragedy  and  the  conception  of  the  idea  by 
Gorthe. 

In  the  evening  Mr.  8anborn  lectured  on  "The 
Relation  of  Goethe  to  English  Literature,"  and 
began  by  saying  that  it  is  difficult  to  find  in  the 
fifty  volumes  of  Goethe  any  serious  traces  of 
English  literature,  although  he  had  read  and 
admired  the  best  of  English  authors.  It  is  im- 
possible to  say  that  English  literature  formed  or 
influenced  hisown  works, as  did  the  classical  liter- 
store,  the  Orients  1  or  even  the  French  and  Italian. 
Christopher  Marlowe,  said  Mr.  Sanborn,  who, 
if  be   had   lived,  might  have   disputed  Shak- 


speare's  pre-eminence  in  dramatic  poetry, seems 
to  barn  caught  at  the,  "Faust"  myth  almost  as 
soon  as  it  appeared  anywhere  in  Europe  in  a 
printed  form,  i.  e.  in  1587,  when  there  appeared 
at  Frankfort  the  "History  of  Dr.  Johann 
Faust,  the  far-famed  Sorcerer  and  Black  Art- 
ist." From  an  English  translation  of  this 
made  in  1592,  Marlowe  is  supposed  to  have 
taken  his  play,  the  "Tragical  H  istory  of  Dr. 
Faustus,"  which  was  probably  written  in 
1592-3.     ■ 

Alter  mentioning  the  slight  connection  be- 
tween Goethe  and  bis  English  contemporaries, 
Goldsmith,  Sterne,  Walter  Scott,  eto„  and  quot- 
ing from  Crabb  Robinson  about  Byron  and 
Goethe,  Mr.  Sanborn  said: 

The  finest  aroma  of  English  literature,  that 
wblcb  proceeds  from  a  magnanimous  and  ad- 
venturous character,  displayed  now  In  love, 
now  in  war,  now  In  the  heroism  of  private  life 
or  lo  the  sanctities  of  religion,  Is  perpetually 
wanting  In  Goethe.  I  do  not  speak  of  Shak- 
speare.in  whom  this  magnanimity  had  Its  wid- 
est and  highest  reach,  but  of  lesser  poets  and 
prose  writers,  who,  sometimes  iu  very  humble 
spheres  of  literature,  display  tb Is  same  winning 
quality.  It  Is  this  wblcb  gives  Immortality  to 
Sidney's  youthful  essays  In  prose  and  verse: 
which  makes  Herbert  memorable,  Marveli 
more  than  a  wit;  this  gleams  In  Donne  and 
Jeremy  Taylor,  In  Wordsworth,  Shelley  and 
Byron;  In  Burns  and  Carlisle  among  the  Scotch, 
and  among  Americans  In  Emerson,  Thoreau, 
Walt  Whltmau  and  others  of  less  note.  It  Is 
by  virtue  of  an  untamable  energy  t  bat  English 
literature  Is  capable  of  rising  so  high  and  sink- 
ing so  low,  and  Is  incapable  of  that  measured 
and  deliberate  excellence  of  which  the  books 
of  Plato  and  of  Goethe  are  perhaps  the  best  ex- 
amples. In  the  life  of  Goethe,  not  less  than  In 
bis  writings,  we  see  the  limitations  which 
egoism  Imposes  and  which  not  even  his  great 
genius  could  remove. 

THORE&tT'S  TOFT/BUSHED  ffRITIKOS. 

The  literary  flavor  of  the  week  was  increased 
by  yesterday's  readings  from  Thoreau  by  his  lit- 
erary executor,  Mr.  Blake.  These  extracts 
from  the  unpublished  papers  of  the  Concord 
poet-naturalist-  bad  little  in  common  with 
Goethe,  except  their  love  of  nature  and  the 
beauty  of  their  style,  which  was  remarked  on 
by  those  who  took  part  in  the  discussion.  Mrs. 
Emerson  was  present  at  these  readings,  as  she 
has  been  at  many  sessions  of  the  school  this 
year. 

In  August,  1856,  when  Thoreau  was  in  high 
health,  aod,  at  the  top  of  his  bent,  he  thus  de- 
clines (in  his  diary)  the  offer  of  a  more  intru- 


sive and  cultivated  acquaintance  to  go  with  him 
on  one  of  his  excursions  on  the  Concord  River, 
where,  at  that  trine,  Thoreau  used  to  spend  so 
much  time  in  his  boat — a  kind  of  "pant,"  as 
Matthew  Arnold  would  call  it,  bat  with  a 
"shoulder-of-mutton"  sail,  which  used  to  posh 
it  along,  up  or  down  the  stream,  as  the  wind 
served.    Thbreau  writes: 

There  sits  one  by  the  shore  who  wishes  to  go 
with  me,  but  I  cannot  think  of  It.  I  must  Be 
fancy  free.  There  Is  no  sucb  mote  In  the  sky  as 
a  man  who  Is  not  perfectly  transpureut  to  you, 
who  has  any  opacity.  I  would  rather  attend  to 
him  for  half  an  hour  or  more  on  shore  .or  else- 
where and  then  dismiss  htm.  He  thtnkr  I  could 
merely  take  him  Into  my  boat  and  then  not 
mind.  He  does  not  realise  that  I  should. by  the 
same  act,  take  him  Into  my  mind,  where  there 
is  no  room  for  him.  fbr  my  bark  would 
surely  founder  in  such  a  voyage  as  I  was  con- 
templating. I  know  very  well  I  should  never 
reach  that  expansion  of  the  river  I  bave  In  my 
mind  with  him  aboard,  with  his  broad,  terrene 
qualities.  He  would  sink  my  bark,  not  to 
another  sea,  and  never  know  it.  I  could  better 
carry  a  heaoed  load  of  meadow  mud  and  sit  on 
ttie  tholevins.  There  would  be  more  room  for 
me  and  I  should  reach  that  expansion  of  the 
rlver.nevertheless.  I  could  better  afford  to  take 
him  Into  bedwlth  me.fot then  Imigbt,perhaps, 
abandon  him  iu  my  dreams.  An!  you  are  a 
heavy  fellow.  But  I  am  well  disposed.  If  you 
could  go  without  going,  then  you  might  go. 
There  Is  the  captain's  stateroom  empty,  to  he 
sure,  and  you  say  you  could  go  In  tbe  steerage. 
I  know  very  well  that  only  your  baggage  would 
be  dropped  in  the  steerage,  while  you  would 
settle  right  down  into  that  other  snug  recess. 
Why,  I  am  going,  not  staying.  I  have  come  on 
purpose  to  sail,  to  paddle  away  from  such  as 

fou,  and  you  have  waylaid  me  on  the  shore  *  • 
1  I  thought  you  were  steadily  gazing  after  roe 
a  mile  off,  I  could  not  endure  it.  It  is  because 
I  trust  that  I  shall  ere  long  depart  from  your 
thoughts,  and  so  you  from  mine,  that  I  am 
encouraged  to  setsallatall.  *  *  This  company  Is 
obliged  to  make  a  distinction  between  freight 
and  passengers.  I  will  take  almost  any  amount 
of  freight  for  you  cheerfully,  anything,  my 
dear  sir,  but  yourself.  If  I  remember  aright,  it 
was  only  on  condition  that  you  were  asked  that 
you  were  to  go  with  a  man  one  mile  or  twain. 

The  two  Cornell  professors,  Hewett  and 
White,  lectnred  this  week,  and  their  two  essays 
(of  which  Professor  Hewett's  is  soon  to  be  pub- 
lished In  "flarp«.r")  covered  much  of  Goethe's 
life  from  childhood  to  his  death  at  Weimar  in 
1832.  Professor  White  quoted  freely  from  his 
youthful  essays  and  his  letters,  while  Professor 
Hewett  gave  many  anecdotes  of  the  great  man. 
Dr.  Soldan,  who  spoke  of  Goethe's  early  re- 
ligious views  and  of  the  effect  which  tbe  A  raster- 


dam  Jew,  Spinox*,had  on  him  in  youth,  is  him- 
•elf  a  native  of  Frankfort  and  was  born  not  far 
from  Goethe's  home.  He  has  the  true  German 
reverence  for  Goethe,  ai  do  some  of  the  Ameri-^ 
can  lecturers  also;  while  others,  as  well  as  Pro- 
fessor DaviiNon,  critii-ise  him  more  freely. 
Next  week  "Wilhclin  Mcister"  will  be  eonsiu* 
.etv<t  aud  Goethe's  ruatiin  to  modern  science 
.will  k*sdi«u>3$d. 


AN  AUTHOR'S  HARDSHIPS. 


[KTEBESTIRB    UNPUBLISHED    LETTERS 
pF  BAWTIOBIiE. 


[Frop\  the  Boston  TYanteripL  ] 

More  than  a  half  century  has  elapsed  sine* 
the  leading  English  authors,  petitioning  the 
American  Con^ras  for  International  copy- 
right, declared  taat  such  a  law  wouid  have 
savtrt  Sir  Walter  Scott  from  tbe  pecuniary 
difficulties  which  overshadowed  tbe  cloj tug 
years  of  bis  life.  At  that  time  a  young 
American  was  publishing  tales  which  prom- 
ised his  country  also  a  "Witard  of  the 
North;"  but  It  wlil  be  seen  by  tbe  following 
letters  now  in  tbe  possession  of  Dr. 
John  S.  H.  Fogg,  of  Boston,  that  his 
early  lire  was  overshadowed  like  that 
of  Sir  Walter  at  Its  close.  It  is  not  doubt- 
ful, to  one  who  reads  the  Mote-Books  of 
Hawthorne,  and  remarks  the  many  rlcb 
blossoms  that  bore  no  fruit,  that  the  world 
lost  much  through  his  struggle.  He  In- 
dulged a  morldd  fancy  that  ho  was  nnder  a 
retributive  cars*  because  his  Salem  ances- 
tors had  persecuted  <  •witches' ' ;  but  his  real 
doom  was  a  competition,  tor  which  his  deli- 
cate genius  was  unfit,  with  tbe  unpaid  novel- 
ists of  Europe.  It  Is  strange  that  a  proud  and 
educated  people  ILke  the  Americans  do  not 
ferl  it  as  a  scandal  that  among  all  their 
brilliant  writers  hardly  one  Is  able  to  live  by 
authorship  alone,  or  without  alliance  with 
some  publishing  enterprise. 

From  the  right  understanding  of  the  let- 
ters the  following  dates  may  be  helpful. 
Nathaniel  Hawthorne  was  born  July  «,  180*. 
His  earliest  literary  productions  were  pub- 
lished in  the  "Democratic  Review. "  edited 
by  J.  L.  O'Sulllvan,  who  paid  blm  five  dollars 
per  page.  These  were  collected  in  1837  nn- 
der tbe  UUe  Tw  lee-  told  Talc*.'  Mr.  George 
Bancroft,  tbe  historian,  being  Collector  of 
Boston  under  the  Presidency  of  Van  Buren, 
gave  blm  a  place  in  the  Custom  House  of 
that  etty  (KB).  He  was  turned  out  of  office 
m  Bfl;  sojourned  for  a  time  with  the  Brook 
Farm  Commnnlty(deeerlbed  In  "The  BUthe- 
dale  Romance');  married  In  1813  (Sophia 
Feabody),  and  went  to  reside  at  Concord, 
Mas*.  In  1MB  bo  wan  appointed  snrveyer  of 
loo  Custom  House,  Salem,  from  which  be 
was  removed  In  1M9,  Tbe  letters,  with  one 
exception  (that  to  his  wife's  sister,  Miss 
gbtabeth  Feabody),  were  written  to  his 
friend,  George  StiUman  Hlllard.  author  of 
«U  Months  In  Italy'  and  other  works. 
^Concon*,  Not.  Js,  1MS.-I  wish  at  some 
leisure  moment  yon  would  glre  yourself  the 
trouble  to  call  Into  Munroe's  book-store  and 
Inquire  about  the  state  of  my  "Twice-told 
Tales,"  At  tbe  last  accounts  (now  about  a 
year  since)  the  sales  bad  not  been  sufficient 
to  pay  the  expenses;  but  it  may  be  otherwise 
now— else  I  shall  be  forced  to  consider  my- 
self a  writer  for  posterity;  or  at  all  events 
aot  for  the  present  generation.  Surely  the 
boos;  was  puffed  enough  to  meet  with  a  sale. 
What  the  devil  lathe  matter? 

We  are  very  well  here,  and,  as  usual,  pre- 
posterously happy. 

Coxoo&D,  March  2*,  1S+4.-I  thank  yon  for 
your  kind  and  warm  congratulations  on  the 
advent  of  our  little  Una— •  name  which  I 
wish  you  were  entirely  pleased  with,  as  I 
think  you  will  be  by  and  by.  Perhaps  tbe 
first  impression  may  not  be  altogether  agree- 


93 

able,  for  the,  name  has  never  before  been 
warmed  with  human  life,  and  therefore  may 
not  seem  appropriate  to  real  flesh  and  blood. 
But  for  as,  our  child  has  already  given  It  a 
natural  warmth;  and  when  she  has  worn  it 
through  her  lifetime,  and  perhaps  trans- 
mitted it  to.  descendants  of  her  own,  the 
beautiful  name  will  hare  become  naturalised 
on  earth;  whereby  we  shall  have  done  a 
good  deed  In  bringing  It  out  of  the 
realm  of  Faery.  I  do  not  agree  with  you 
that  poetry  ought  not  to  be  brought  Into 
common  life.  If  flowers  of  Eden  can  be 
made  to  grow  among  my  cabbages  and 
squashes.  It  will  please  me  so  much  the  bet- 
ter; those  excellent  vegetables  will  be  Just 
as  good  to  eat,  and  the  flowers  no  less  de- 
lightful to  see  and  smell.  After  all,  I  like 
the  name,  not  so  much  from  any  association 
with  Spenser's  heroine,  as  for  It*  simple 
self— it  Is  as  simple  as  m  name  can  be—as 
simple  as  a  breath— It  Is  merely  Inhaling  a 
breath  Into  one's  heart,  and  emitting  It 
again,  and  the  name  Is  spoken, 

I  find  It  a  very  sober  and  serious  kind  of 
happiness  that  springs  from  the  birth  of  a 
child.  It  ought  not  to  come  too  early  in  a 
man's  life—not  till  he  has  fully  enjoyed  his 
youth— for  methlnks  the  spirit  cad  never  be 
thoroughly  gay  and  careless  again,  after 
this  great  event.  We  gain  Infinitely  by  the 
exchange;  but  we  do  give  np  something 
nevertheless.  As  for  myself,  who  have  been 
a  trlfler  preposterously  long,  I  find  It  neces- 
sary to  come  out  of  my  cloud-region,  and 
allow  myself  to  be  woven  Into  the  sombre 
texture  of  humanity.  There  Is  no  escaping 
It  any  longer.  I  bare  business  on  earth 
now,  and  must  look  about  me  for  the  means 
of  doing  ft 

It  will  never  do  tor  me  to  continue  merely 
•  writer  of  stories  tor  the  magazines— the 
most  unprofitable  business  In  the  world— 
and,  moreover,  even  If  there  were  ever  so 
great  a  demand  for  my  productions  I  could 
not  spend  more  than  a  third  of  my  time  In 
this  sort  of  composition.  It  requires  a  con- 
tinual freshness  of  mind,  else  a  deterioration 
tat  the  article  will  quickly  be  perceptible.  If 
X  am  to  support  myself  by  literature,  It 
most  be  by  what  Is  called  drudgery,  but 
which  Is  Incomparably  less  irksome,  as  a 
business,  than  imaginative  writing— by 
translation,  concocting  of  school  books, 
newspaper  scribbling,  etc.  If  we  have  a 
Democratic  Administration  next  year,  I 
shall  again  favor  Uncle  Sam  with  my  ser- 
vices, though,  I  hope,  In  some  less  disagree- 
able shape  than  formerly. 

I  sent  an  article  to  Graham  some  months 
ago,  and  he  wrote  me,  accepting  It  with  a 
••great  deal  of  pleasure,  etc,"  but  It  does 
not  yet  appear.  Unless  he  publishes  It  next 
month  I  shall  reclaim  It,  having  occasion 
tor  It  elsewhere.  God  keep  me  from  ever  be- 
ing really  a  writer  for  bread.  If  I  alone  was 
concerned  I  had  rather  starve;  but  In  that 
case  poor  little  Una  would  have  to  take 
refuge  In  the  almshouse,  which,  here  in 
Concord,  Is  a  most  gloomy  old  mansion. 
Her  •  'angel  face"  would  hardly  make  sun- 
shine there.  Yon  must  come  and  see  little 
Una  and  the  rest  of  us  as  soon  as  the  rail- 
road is  opened.  People  of  experience  In 
babies  say  sue  is  going  to  be  very  pretty, 
which  I  devoutly  believe,  though  the  tokens 
are  as  yet  hidden  trom*my  eyes.  At 
all  events  she  Is  a  remarkably  strong 
and  healthy  child,  free  from  all  troubles 
and  torments  .such  as  nature  gene- 
rally provides  for  poor  little  babies.  She 
seldom  cries  except  lor  hunger— her  oilmen- 
tiveness  being  enormously  developed.  She 
has  already  smiled  once,  on  theslxteenth 
morning  of  her  existence.  I  was  inclined  to 
attribute  It  to  wind,  which  sometimes  pro- 
duces a  sardonic  grin ;  but  her  mother,  who 
was  tbe  sole  witness  of  the  phenomenon, 
persists  that  it  was  a  veritable  smile  out  of 
the  child's  mouth  and  eyes.  I  hope  to  see 
you  In  Boston  early  In  next  month.  Give 
our  regards  to  Mrs.  Hlllard.  We  long  to 
•how  her  our  baby.  I  am  glad  of  Longfel- 
3ow's  anticipated  happiness.    It  Is  a  pity 


•that  any  mortal  should  go  out  of  life  with- 
■oat  experiencing  what  gives  life  Its  reality; 
and,  next  to  a  child  on  earth,  It  Is  good  to 
'nave  a  child  In  Heaven.* 

YssUfrtenl     si  seMaTB  i  WtsTTlsstFl 


Old  Time  Civil  Service  Abases. 

Salem,  March  6, 18*).— I  am  informed  that 
there  Is  to  be  a  strong  eflort  among  the  poli- 
ticians here  to  remove  me  from  office,  and 
that  my  successor  is  already  marked  out.  I 
do  not  think  that  this  ought  to  be  done,  for 
1  was  not  appointed  to  office  as  a  reward  for 
political  services,  nor  have  I  acted  as  a  poli- 
tician since,  A  large  portion  of  tbe  local 
Democratic  party  look  coldly  on  me  tor  not 
having  used  the  influence  of  my  position  to 
obtain  the  removal  of  Whigs— which  I  might 
have  done,  but  which  I  In  no  case  did. 
Neither  was  my  appointment  made  at  the 
expense  of  a  Whig,  for  m  y-  predecessor  was 
appointed  by  Tyler  In  his  latter  days,  and 
called  himself  a  Democrat.  Nor  can  any 
charge  of  inattention  to  duty,  or  other  of- 
ficial misconduct,  be  brought  agjajnat  me, 
or,  if  so,  I  could  easily  refute  It.  There  la, 
therefore,  no  ground  tor  disturbing  me, ex- 
cept on  tbe  most  truculent  party  system. 
All  this,  however,  wlil  be  of  little  avail  with 
the  Slang-whangers— the  vote  disturbers— 
tbe  Jack  Cades  who  assume  to  decide  upon 
these  matters  after  a  political  triumph ;  and 
as  to  any  literary  claim  of  mine,  they  would 
not  weigh  a  leather,  nor  be  thoogkt 
weighing  at  all.  * 

But  It  seems  to  me  that  an  inoffensive  i 
of  letters,  having  obtained  a  pitiful  little 
office  on  no  other  plea  than  bis  pitiful  little 
literature,  ought  not  to  be  left  w  the  mercy  of 
these  thick-skulled  and  no- hearted  ruffians. 
It  Is  for  this  that  I  npw  write  to  yon.  There 
are  men  In  Boston— Mr.  Hufns  Choato,  for 
Instance— whose  favorable  Influence  with 
the  administration  would  make  It  impossi- 
ble to  remove  me,  and  whose  support  and 
sympathy  might  fairly  be  claimed  in  my  be- 
half— not  on  the  ground  the.t  I  am  a  very 
good  writer,  but  because  I  gained  my  posf- 
tlon,  such  as  it  Is,  by  my  literary  character, 
and  have  done  nothing  to  forfeit  that 
tenure.  •  •  •  I  do  not  let  myself  be  dis- 
turbed by  these  things,  but  employ  my  lets* 
ore  boors  in  writing, and  go  on  a*  quietly  as 
ever.  I  see  that  Longfellow  has  written  a 
prose  tale.  How  Indefatigable  he  Is  r  and 
how  adventurous  1  Well  be  may  be,  for  he 
never  fails. 

Salem,  June  8,  1849.—  I  am  turned  out  of 
office  I  There  Is  ao  use  In  lamentation.  It 
now  remains  to  consider  what  I  shall  do 
next.  The  emoluments  of  the  office  have 
been  so  moderate  that  I  have  not  been  able 
to  do  any  thing  more  than  support  my  fam- 
ily and  pay  some  few  debts  that  I  have  con- 
tracted. If  you  could  do  anything  in  tbe 
way  of  procuring  me  some  stated  literary 
employment  in  connection  wlthanewspa- 
per,  or  as  corrector  of  the  press  to  some 
printing  establishment,  etc.,  It  could  not 
come  at  a  better  time.  Perhaps  Epes  Sar- 
gent, wbo  Is  a  friend  of  mine,  would  know 
something.  I  sball  not  stand  upon  my  dig- 
nity ;  that  must  take  care  of  itself.  Perhaps 
there  may  be  some  subordinate  office  con- 
nected with  the  Boston  Atbenasum.  Do  not 
think  anything  too  humble  to  be  mentioned 
to  me. 

I  wrote  lo  Longfellow,  the  other  day,  that 
I  would  dine  with  him  on  his  next  Invita- 
tion, and  that  yon  would  come  too.  I  should 
like  soon  to  meet  you  and  him. 

The  Intelligent  ha*.  Just  reached  me,  aud 
Sophia  has  not  .,et  heard  it.  She  will  bear  It 
like  a  woman— that  Is  to  say,  better  than  a 
man. 

•  Mr.  Hlllard  had  Just  lost  his  only  child. 


THE  C0NC03D  PHILOSOPHERS. 


!%•  Kommcr  Seh«a*  CI— ea1— 


Flatta  *»r  Xext 


[Ccrrcsnondenee  ofThii  Boston  Journal.} 
Concord.    Mass.,  Aoe.    12.     Tbe  School  of 
Hsiio90phy  closed  Its  cummer  sessions  to-day. 
Dr.  Harris  read  his  last  paper  on  Fieble's  Doc- 
trine of  Beliftoo. 

The  Sctojl  to  BeMln  l«  C»r.r*r«. 

A  short  discission  followed  the  lector*,  after 
which  Mr.  S.  F.  Emery,  Jr.,  gave  an  announce- 
ment of  the  proposedrourse  Tor  next  rear.  Al- 
though there  has  been  serious  talk  of  tbe  re- 
moval of  tne  school  to  the  West,  they  have 
finally  decided  10  bold  the  sessions  of  next 
year  In  tbe  Hillside  Chapel  at  Concord,  the 
same  ae  In  previous  years.  The  session*  wOl 
continue  frou>  July  20  M>  An*:.  12, 1683.  1  tiers 
will  be  no  sessions  on  Saturday*.  An  entirely 
sew  departure  will  be  taken  In  the  way  of 
elementary  courses  for  the  stody  of  philosophic 
method  which  will  be  given  in  the  afternoon. 
Besides  these  there  will  be  3D  regular  lectures, 
Including  four  each  by  Mr-  Alcott,  Dr.  Jones, 
Prof.  Harris,  Rev.  Mr.  Holland  and  Prof. 
Bowlson.  The  rest  of  the  rexular  lectures  will 
be  divided  in  the  main  among  those  who  have 
lectured  In  the  past,  though  no  definite  an- 
nouncement can  as  yet  be  jriren. 

Air.   AJrott's  VaOeOe— ry. 

.After  tnts  prospectus  haU  been  fc'ven.Wr.  Aa 
Bronson  Alcolt  delivered  the  valedictory-.  He 
said  tli.it.  on  la  ting  a  review  ot  their  four  an- 
nual sessions,  they  had  reason  lor  every  encour- 
agement, for  there  has  been  .1  continuous  im- 
provement in  the  nature  of  the  lectures.  During 
the  first  year  of  tbe  School  it  was  an  entirely 
new  departure,  and  might  be  said  to  be  a  no»- 
eltv  in  thl»  conntrv,  Ui<<ugh  t.otanovelty  In  ail 
respects  in  other  times.  Tue;e  was  curiosity, 
of  course,  when  our  prospectus  wns  announced, 
and  each  ons  had  a  different  idea  ol  what  phi- 
losophy was.  Then  there  was  a  question  on  the 
part  of  those  who  bad  let  others  do  their  think- 
ing whether  the  study  was  of  any  use  and  had 
any  practical  bearing.  The  next  question  was-to 
learn  a  new  dialect.  We  were  exposed  on  that  sine 
to  misapprehension  by  those  who  di<l  uot  care  to 
learn  a  new  dialect,  as  they  would  be  compelled 
to  do  if  they  were  commencing  the  study  of  al- 
gebra. Then.-af>  to  numbers,  during  tbe  first 
year  we  had  a  very  good  attendance,  mr.cn 
more  thau  we  expecic<;,  though,  to  bo  s-re, 
numbers  are  not  of  much  account  with  us.  Dai- 
Int.-  the  second  and  third  ye*nt  there  was  u  silil 
greater  success  in  numbers.  Meanwhile  a  gen- 
erous woman  e«ve  us  the  means  to  erect  our 
chapel,  which  we  built  as  plainly  as  we  could, 
with  few  ornaments.  Our  numbers  this  year 
have  not  been  as  lanre  as  In  previous  years,  but 
we  do  not  take  this  as  discouraging.  In  all  we 
now  have  a  list  of  700  or  8o0  different  persons 
who  have  attended  tbe  school,  to  that  we  may 
say  that  thero  Is  a  large  enough  uoml*t  of  per- 
sons in  this  country  who  really  care  to  de- 
vote themselves  to  philosophy,  ,-ihd  so  we  feel 
•couuraged.  We  did  entertain  ihc  quest. on 
whether  tbe  "  Concord  "~tn. >ioo<  sbunld  go  for 
one  year  to* Western  town,  but  we  decided 
that,  though  it  ml c lit.  advertise  us,  we  did  not 
wish  to  go  peddling  for  support.  If  tbe  human 
soul  lores  light  and  truth,  the  Concord  School 
most  have  longevity.  We  do  really  believe 
that  there  Is  a  seed  spread  on  this  hillside  which 
Is  going  to  spring  Into  everlasting  life.  The 
School  has  the  power  to  make  Itself  known  and 
loved.  The  speaker  thought  evervlluue  hope 
fol  for  the  future,  and  that  It  is  sa'fe  for  young 
people  to  go  to  tbe  Concord  School  without  :sn- 
rfbing  any  heresies.  Although  tbe\  to  n  large 
lxtent  presented  German  views,  which  .\  tew 
years  ago  were  considered  dangerous  to  Sure*- 
ilgate,  they  had  an  American  Interpretc  who, 
sould  sift  the  truth,  thus  endeth  the  V'i» 
'ear  of  lbs  Concord  School  of  Philosophy. 


PHILOSOPHY  AT  COICOBD. 


94 

tbe  faculty,  who  has  been  so  enfeebled  for  a  long 
time,  will  probably  be  present  on.  the  opening. 
day,  and  there  will  be  read  extracts  from  hit 
diary  of  1835, 1877, 1838,  and  18421  In  tbe  latter 
year  he  went  to  England,  and  Jtat  before  leav- 
ing for  home  he  received  a  letter  from  Thomas 
Cariyle,  and  this  letter  will  be  one  of  the  matters 
read  on  Wednesday  morning.  In  Mr.  Alcott'* 
diary  are  criticisms  and  estimates  of  Emerson, 
who  at  the  time  bad  published  only  one  work, 
'  Nature."  These  comments  are  said  to  be  very" 
interesting  reading  now  an  l  to  be  in  a  brighf 
style. 

It  is  Wholly  uncertain  wbat  tbe  future  of  the 
school  will  be.  Tbe  attendance  fer  thu  year, 
crowded  into  two  weeks  as  it  most  be,  promises 
to  average  larger  per  day  than  last  year.  Possi- 
bly after  this  year  tbe  hillside  cbapsl  will  rem  iia 
closed ;  poseibly  it  may  be  opened  after  a  year  or 
two  of  vacation;  possibly  reopened  next  year,  if 
tbe  attendance  and  encouragement  this  year  war- 
rant It  But  Emerson  is  gone,  and  Mr.  Alcott  is 
unable  to  attend  legularly.  Tbe  Faculty  are 
widely  scattered  and  the  prospect  is  not  favor- 
able for  a  continuance  of  the  school. 

Tbe  programme  of  subjects  and  lectures  is  as 
follows:  "  Emerson's  View  of  Nature,"  by  Dr. 
W.  T.  Harris;  "Emerson's  Religion,"  by  tbe 
Rev.  Dr.  C.  A.  Bartol;  "Emerson's  Ethics.''  by 
Mr.  Edwin  D.  Mead;  "  Emerson's  Manners  and 
Relation  to  Society,"  by  Mrs.  Julia  TTard  Howe; 
"  Emerson  as  Seen  from  India,"  by  Protap 
Cbunder  Mozoomdar,  of  Calcutta;  "  Emerson  as 
an  American,"  by  Julian  Hawthorne;  "  Emer- 
son in  tbe  Pulpit,"  by  Miss  Elizabeth  P.  Pea- 
body;  "  A  French  View  of  Emerson,"  '07  M. 
Rene  de  Payen  BeUeisle,  of  Paris;  "  Emerson  in 
Boston."  by  Mrs.  Edna  D.  Cheney;  "  E.-n^ron 
as  an  Essayist,"  by  Mr.  John  Albee;  "  Eoiaraon 
and  Tboreau,"  by  Mr.  Walt  Whitman  (or  in  its 
place  readings  by  Mr.  H.  O.  O.  Blake,  Emerson's 
biographer);  "  Emerson's  View  of  Nationality,* 
by  tbe  Rev.  O.  W.  Cooke;  "  Emerson  Among 
the  Poets,"'  by  Mr.  F.  B.  8anborn;  u  Emerson's 
Relations  to  Goethe  and  Cariyle,"  by  Dr.  Harris; 
"The  Genius  of  Emerson,"  by  Mr.  \T.  E.  Cbtin- 
ning,  of  Concord.  Tbe  discussion  on  immortal' &y 
will  be  shared  by  tbe  venerable  Rev.  Dr.  An- 
drew P.  Peabody,  of  Cambridge;  the  Rev.  Pr. 
Robert  A.  Holland,  of  New  Orleans;  Mr.  Joba 
Fi^ke,  Dr.  Hart  is,  and  others.  The  latter's  topic. 
wiil  be  "  Tbe  Origin  and  Destiny  of  Man.''  The 
hcturer  from  Paris  will  speak  in  his  native 
t>  ngne,  which  will  be  the  first  time  that  any 
other  language  than  Ecgllsh  has  beea  emplij-ed 
at  tbe  school.  Nine  in  the  morning  and  ta'.  '- 
.fast  seven  in  the  evening  are  the  hours  for  !e>c- 
tures,  w  ith  only  one  on  Saturdays.  Julian  Haw- 
thorne is  put  down  for  the  evening  ot  tbe  first 

l»x.  

CONCORD. 


P«*siblT  tbe  Last  Programme  ef  the  F  •hofti  ■ 
latrin  and  Immorality. 

[Correspoodeuc*  cf  the  Bventng  Pan.] 

Bossxm,  July  21 
On  Wednesday  of  this  week  tea  Concord  Sum- 
mer School  of  Philosophy  will  open  for  the  six-.h 
time  and  perhaps  tbe  but.  Only  two  subjects 
wiD  be  considered — Emerson  aad  immortality. 
Tbe  venerable  A.  Bronson  Alcott,  the  Deaa  of 


WRITTEN  BT  GEO.    TOLMAN  FOR 
TBE  PUBLIC   LI  SCARY  PRIZE, 


Am  accurate  Analysts  of  Schools  aad 
Saelety — Land,  Taxes,  Llbr»rr  •»* 
fv»ter — The  Paopls  Good  IVelehbara. 

Today  The  Record  continues  tha  publica- 
tion of  in  series  of  articles  on  the  best 
town  to  live  In.  Tbe  list,  so  far  as  made 
ftp,  is  gives  below,  and  due  notics  will  be  given 


of  the  other  towns  which  are  to  follow.  Bo- 
member,  that  the  vote  U  to  be  seat  tn  whoa  the 
list  is  completed,  by  cutting  out  tha  title  of  the 
article  from  tbe  paper,  enclosing  it  to  The  Record, 
directed  "The  Record,  Boston,  Mass..  The  Boat 
Town  to  Live  In."  See  to  Is  that  your  own 
town  is  voted  for  and  makes  a  good  showing  fat 
this  competition,  which  has  attracted  attention 
everywhere. 

Dee.  13.  Vdrosa. 
See.  IS.  Lin  cola. 
IXc  14.  Wlnthrojj. 
Pee.  IS.  W.  Xewtoa. 
£»cl*.  OldMsdfird. 


Bse.tr.  HvOsPW*. 

Tire  IS.  Arhaswa. 

I)t*C  SO.   Qo  T>CT. 

Jxk.  «.  W«Jk»wy  IBBs, 

Dm  ta.  AsjbsW  1 — 


.  Coxcobd,  Nov.  11.— 1  snppose  that  every 
Concord  reader  of  Tbe  Record,  whan  be  came 
across  your  proposition  in  last  Friday  even- 
Ing's  Issue,  at  once  exclaimed,  "He  must  mean 
Concord,"  for  surely  there  Is  ao  other  town  m 
the  whole  Commonwealth  that  so  telly  answers 
the  demands  of  the  writer. 

True  we  are  almost  at  the  exheuie  limit  of 
20  utiles  from  Boston,  but  with  14  dally  train* 
each  way  over  the  Pitch  burg  road  and  four  over 
the  Lowell,  we  are  brought  as  near  to  the  city 
as  is  desirable.  In  point  of  time,  Grove  Hall  la 
as  far  from  the  Old  State  House  as  Concord  to ; 
while,  as  far  as  the  comfort  of  the  daily  Joutusy 
goat,  tbe  40  mmntes  trio  m  tha  easy,  roomv 
and  comfortable  cars  of  the  Fttcbfanrg  road 
|*  Immeasurably  to  be  preferred  so  the  time- 
•carter*  of  an  hour's  ride  in  tbe  dusty,  crowd- 
ad  and  draughty  horse-car*  which  the  dweller 
In  the  nearer  suburbs  of  the  dry  must  undergo 
Baity.  Nor  is  the  difference  in  car  fare  greatly 
to  be  regarded,  for  tbe  price  of  a  season  ticket 
aver  the  railroad  ($88  a  year  from  Boston  to 
Concord)  Is  more  than  offtet  by  tha  difleionu*  m 
house-rent 

1  Rents  in  Concord  axe  low,  of  at  any  rata  mod- 
erate, the  only  difficulty  being  that  there  an 
very  few  rented  houses,  and  tenements  an 
hardly  to  be  found;  but  bearing  m  mted  tha 
bet  that  your  inquiry  Is  for  the  oenaot  of 
who  "either  own  or  intend  to  own  their  1 
•his  difficulty  becomes  one  of  vary  Uttie  Impor- 
Indeed,  Hit  a  serious  drawback  to  many 


at  tha  newer  towns  nearer  Boston  t 
fat  them  so  many  rented  houses,  inducing  a 
transient,  shifting  population  of  people  who 
have  not  the  interest  of  proprietors  in  tbe  town, 
and  for  that  reason  are  not  to  inhrttmit  to 
laatntttn  Its  credit  or  us  reputation, 
a.  ercoTro  local  raauira, 
Toe  ownership  of  real  proaaity  create*  a  test- 
ing of  conservatism,  and  leads  a  nun  to  talcs 
an  active  Interest  in  matters  of  local  importance, 
tbe-»ebools,  tbe  highways,  tha  taxes,  tha  ao 
ministration  oT  town  affairs  and  tha  Ilka.  So 
It  will  be  found  that,  in  Concord  and  towns  of  Its 
data,  partisan  politics  find  no  place  In  town  af- 
fairs, but  the  town  officers  are  chosen  simply  on 
tbe  ground  of  fitness  and  ability,  aad  the  bust 
ass*  of  the  town  is  managed  carefully  and 
economically.  Land  within  easy  rtliania  of  the 
railroad  s  scion  is  held  at  leasonable  prices,  and 
noma  of  the  best  b-jfding  spots  ut  the  town  have 
within  a  few  years  been  brought  Into  tbe  mar- 
ket by  the  openin?  ot  new  strata  sad  bridges. 

SIB— BT  TKB  CTTBIO  TOK. 

As  to  the  air  of  Concord  there  Is  certain iy 
enough  of  it.  The  vuiace  is  somewhat  loosely 
built,  with  bouses  far  enough  apart  to  give  a 
free  circulation  to  the  breezes  which  And  then- 
way  over  or  through  the  barrier  of  low  hills 
which  surround  it  on  every  Mde.  Nor  is  the 
air  contaminated  by  smoke  or  smeil  from  man- 
ufactories or  slaughter-houses  or  tanneries  or 
any  of  the  similar  lll-smellnur  ettahttebments 
which  pollute  tne  sir  of  ao  many  of  the  other- 
wise attractive  suburbs  of  Boston.  From  all 
these  things  we  are  entirely   free,   aad  in  tea 


** 


eery  nature  «f  O*  an  w«  mutt  always  remare. 
No.  our  quiet  riror  ufiort!Hng  no  power  for  menu- 
ttetnring  exept  at  Wostvale,  three  miles  away, 
»«d  there  being  no  Inducement  whatever  to  any 
era  toMtnpa  factory  to  nn  by  steam. 

Perhaps  Uw  town's  bills  of  mortality  intent 
better  than  anvthlngelse  show  tbe  healthful- 
neii  of  tbs  rHace.  The  average  ags  of  tbe  62 
famous  who  died  hero  last  year  was  -40  years ; 
of  those  62  exactly  one  fourth  had  more  than 
lived  ont  their  "allotted  span"  of  three  score 
years  and  en,  and  are  of  these  had  attained  to 
85  years  of  age  and  over,  The  annual  death 
rate  of  tbe  town  for  the  past  10  years  has 
•▼erased  less  than  that  of  any  other  town  with- 
in yonr  drele  of  20  miles  from  Boston, 
sexooxa  Axb  sxsrora. 

Tbe  schools  of  Concord  hare  for  more  than 
200  years  raoKed  very  high,  according  to  the 
foslnonoftbe  time-  Personally  I  hare  very 
little  telth  la  the  modern  methods  and  aims  of 
public  school  instruction.  The  system  seems  to 
me  to  attempt  to  do  altogether  too  ranch,  and 
to  succeed  in  doing  altogether  too  tittle.  I  con- 
fess l  would  like  to  see  a  reutrn  to  simpler 
courses  of  ttudy,  a  more  thorough  training  in 
the  elementary  branches,  and  a  more  liberal 
idea oi  what  is  called  "discipline."  But  the 
quackery  wnich  has  taken  possession  of  the 
public  schools  is  now  *  •irstem. "  Concord  is 
not  responsible  for  it;  sue  baa  simply  tumblsa 
into  it.  along  with  pretty  nearly  oil  tbe  rest  of 
the  towns  in  the  Commonwealth.  But,  judged 
b/  tbe  standards  Uow  id  voeoe,  tbe  schools  of 
this  tonro  are  arson;  ike  best  in  the  State,  and 
are  liberally  and  ungrudgingly  supported  by 
tbe  PtopU,  who  tr«  haggle  in  town  meeting 
ores?  any  appropriation,   bowermr    largo,  for 


As  to  streets  and  sidewalks,  every  town  baa 
them,  and  one  will  hardly  rind  a  mils  of  really 
bad  street  in  any  village  in  this  part  of  the  Com- 
monwealth. I  do  not  think  Concord  falls  be- 
hind tn  this  partl-uisr.  Tbe  streets  in  the 
village  are  broad  a  ;d  level,  well  made  and  well 
kept,  lighted  at  night,  and  bordered  with  wel- 
growa  trees  mostly  erms  and  mantes.  The 
highways  running  out  of  the  town  wind  through 
tbe  woods  and  ovar  the  bills,  past  well-tilled 
fields  and  prosperous  farms,  and  oSer  a  succes- 
sion of  charmtmr  drives  or  walks,  lending  in 
many  case*  to  scenes  of  great  natural  beauty. 
tkb  socrrrr  rs  dbbocbatic. 

Society  tn  Concord  Is,  tn  its  way,  democratic 
As  an  old  town,  where  many  of  the  first  setilera 
of  two  tenttrries  an  J  a  half  ago  ate  still  repre- 
sented by  thetr  descendants  of  the  eighth  or 
nrn  h  generation,  and  wben  tbe  old  family 
names  bare  continued  perhaps  more  persistently 
than  in  most  of  tbe  other  old  towns  even,  it  is 
nor  without  n  strong  feeUag-of  local  and  family 
pride,  which.  It  Is  to  to  hoped,  may  never  be 
or  fbrpwtteu.  Bnt  this  fa  not  the 
i  of  wealth  or  of  exclnslveness.  Tt  is  the 
I  feetlag  of  a  peor le  who  know  that  they 
bare  a  history  and  traditions  of  their  own  as 
old*  and  as  honorable  an  that  of  New  England 
itself. 

Tbe  newer  villages,  which  bave  been  built  up 
around  some  great  manufacturing  establish- 
ment, or  bave  sprung  into  existence  at  tha  bid- 
ding of  land  spa  'ulators,  have  none  of  this  local 
pride  -.  they  are  merely  aggregations  of  individ- 
uals, bound  together  by  no  common  ties  except 
those  of  a  purely  material  character,  dependent 
eOetttmee  upon  scum  one  rich  family-  or  corpo- 
ration, or  upon  some  slmrte  mannfartagmg  in- 
dustry, which  give  to  such  places  all  the  dis- 
tinctive municipal  and  social  ebarattar  that  t  bey 
hare.  No  one  wflr  erer  sank  Concord  as  a 
place  of  residence  because  of  its  mechanical  or 
manufacturing  industries,  or  will  be  allured 
here  by  the  showy  promises  of  speculators  or 
building  associations. 

rrs  utiiiiT  mn 

Those,  however,  who  come  hither  «■  account 
of  the  attraction*  which  tbe  old  sown  really 
possess ss,  Its  quiet,  peaceful  character,  its  Ht- 
erary,  social  and  educational  ad  rentage*  its 
fxtaOtst  society,  tie  charming  scenery,  are  cor- 
dially welcomed,  and  qulcity  and  easily  find 
place  in  Its    MCml    fife.      Concord    is    a 


95 

wealthy  town,  with  no  wealthy  people ;  that  Is. 
there  is  no  one  here  who.  as  rlcbee  are  counted 
nowadays,, can  be  accounted  ri  h.  Ho  there  is 
no  vulcar  ostentation,  no  pretentions  houses,  no 
little  great  man,  whose  wealth  gives  him  a  com- 
mandin*  influence  in  local  anuirs.  Nor  or* 
then  «nr  very  poor.  Three  or  four  suueran-- 
nnated  old  men  and  women  doze  out  the  fe*  re- 
maining years  of  their  lires  in  a  sort  of  com- 
fortable retirement  at  the  town  farm,  without 
betas*  mad  -  to  feel  that.they  are  in  any  sense  a 
pub  1c  burden,  and  are.  Indeed,  not  without  a 
certain  otgnlty  of  their  own,  as  those  who  have 
done  their  part  in  life  in  their  years  of  activity, 
and  are  now  reaping  their  deserved  riward,  of 
having  their  nratertil  want*  supplied  by  their 
fallow  townsmen. 

the  oheat  QfBrrtog  ron  Horsn-oMTsxRs. 

Taxc  In  Concord  in  not  high.  On  n  very 
mol.rate  assise  i  valuation,  th  ■  rate  last  year 
was  *10  on  a  ;">  0  "0;  this  year  it  hj  ?V2.  ths  in- 
erea.-e  being  o  t  account  of  a  new  schaolhousa. 
It  is  Concord's  way  to  par  03  it  goes,  and 
there  Is  absolutely  no  town  debt  to  pay  in'e-est 
noon,  except  the  w-tter  loan,  which  Is  provided 
for  by  a  sinking  fund  derived  from  the  revenue 
fOttita  water  works. 


As  to  "rum  shon*,"  the  ce'ebr*tea  chanter  on 
The  Snalres  of  Ireland  -  amy  T>i  "para phtased. 
••Theie  are  no  rnnSi shops  In  Concord," nod  so 
far  as  I  can  judge,  there  is  nobody. who  wsuts 
one.  The  saloon  has  gone,  and  prohanlv  has 
pone  to  stay,  ami  our  vigilant  poltee  force  of 
one  rinds  time  hang  heavy  on  bis  hands  for 
want  of  occupation. 

wirxT  axsnr 

Bet.  ap^rt  from  all  these  things,  atr,  streets, 
sch  olsr  cocietr,  low  taxes  and  lak  of  mm- 
sbopg,  what  else  has  Concord  ?  First,  let  us 
rut  tup  libraiy.  an  institution  of  which  we  are 
Josrly  r>rou ■',  containing  nearly  2.%O0J  volumes, 
open  *or  w.  \  en  hours  "dally  for  six  days  in 
ever;  -r  v...  b.^autl  nlly  honsed  in  the  very  cen- 
tre otiba  to*u,  intollisently  directed,  well  en- 
dowed for  ''s  maintenance,  and,  for  Its  annual 
additions,  enthusiastically  supported  by  tbe 
town,  which  re:mlarly  and  without  question 
appropriates  to  its  support  the  very  last  dollar 
that  the  law  penults  towns  to  raise  by  taxation 
for  library  purposes. 

Then  the  water  supply,  a  matter  of  no  little 
Importance,  in  quantity  ample  for  fire  times 
our  prtsont  population,  even  at  tbe  ex- 
travagant rate  at  which  we  use  it.  Drawn  from 
a  t'oreot  lake  which  receives  no  drainage  or  sew- 
age from  farms,  village  or  manufactory,  and 
never  can  receive  such  it  comes  to  our  nouses 
pure,  healthful  and  life-glring.  entirely  unpol- 
luted by  the  nameless  horrors  which  we  rean  of 
as  contaminating  the  water  of  a'mosteverr  pub- 
lic aqueduct  in  the  neighborhood  of  Boston. 
Indeed  an  acual  analysis  of  the  water,  officially 
made  at  the  time  onr  whirr  works  were  first  put 
in,  eho'.vg  it  to  be  afcoolntely  tbe  purest  wa  er 
furnished  by  an c  municipal  water  works  tn  the 
whole  world.  The  supply  for  all  domestic  pur- 
poses and  for  extinguishing  fires  (if  we  over  had 
any  rires  i  is  unlimited,  so  that  even  the  lawn- 
sprinklers,  which  are  nominally  restricted  to  an 
hour  a  day,  run  along  without  intermission, 
day  and  night,  for  half  the  year. 

ths  r-jBorus  Ana  "ooon  xxraamona." 

A  great  attraction  of  Concord,  especially  to 
those  who  bars  children  to  bring  up,  is  to  be 
found  in  lis  rural  situation  and  surroundings. 
Tbe  village,  situated  la  a  level  plaid  of  limited 
extent,  is  compact  enongh  for  neighborlinese 
and  socability,  wbfle  a  walk  of.  but  a  few 
moments  bringi  one  to  the  open  fields,  the 
woods,  tbe  ponds  or  tbe  river,  the  last  by  no 
means  the  least  of  onr  domestic  institutions.  A 
narrow,  shallow,  sluggish  stream,  it  winds 
la.:il v  around  three  sides  of*  tbe  village,  flowing 
for  tbe  most  part  through  low  and  somewhat 
monotonous  meadows,  but  sometimes  wtoanlng 
out  Into  little  lakes  or  flowing  naoer  the  houghs 
of  oreruanglng  trees,  or  at  the  fast  of  low  hills. 
It  li  almost  one  of  the  highways  of  the  town ; 
everybody  rows  or  padd'es  over  its  surface,  the 
bovs  swim  and  fish  in  it  in  summer  or  skate 
on  er  it  i7i  winter,  picnic  parties  bivouac  on  its 
shady  Shares,  nobody  is  afraid  of  It,  and  even 
the   most  anxious  of  mammas  feels  confident 


~f*a 


that  this  most  gentle  and  placid  of  straesas  Is  at 
safe  and  harmless  a  playground  as  hag  enfldsan 

can  find. 

Of  out  woods  aiM  ponds,  asm  scenery,  onr 
societies,  the  school  of  philosophy  and  the  state 
reformatory,  it  hardly  needs  to  soy  anything, 
Tbe  last  two  of  these  initituttooa,  k  ■  true,  am 
peculiar  to  Concord,  but  of  these  the  school  hi 
already  more  famous  abroad  than  tths  at  haeasv 
and  tbe  reformatory,  being  more  than  two  xattrt 
away  from  the  riiUge,  U  quietly  ignored  by 
Coucordiana,  who  look  spam  k  aesncOsefvs 
foreign  affair. 

cELSB^ikTioic.  cr  nn   wt 
^        .  AmravxBaABr. 

Adclre*»/6j    the  Hon,  E.  «.  B'cmis 


•■-T^sest 


nrronTH*   FOR    thx   aosvos 


The  fiftieth  anatrer  «ry  of  the  C« 
relebreted  lwTevetiing  In  the  "3  awn  ftsal  h 
The  att'Tdance  was  vtry  largs,  tM  the 
se-<*ed  that  gxaat  lntaie<  which -must  aruay*  arsneh  te 
u  literary  in<ttretion  whose,  yean  «f  ami  rallies-  have 
extended  over  so  ienga  period.    AAsranusto,   - 

'Tkv  Hok.  E.  M.  H*«r  _•.  ..  . 

O i ""1  I  It  far  r""'  to  order  ana  jfRrit:  i*  foli»w»i — r 

JCcighlsrrt**<1  Frie*i* :  Flftj  years  ago  te-night,  at 
."  loeetuigoXertiznisof  Concord,  aftarthrve or  faar 
pTtrious  meetlcgs  in  which  they  had  been  estanged  tn 
perfecting  an  elaborate  coumitiirtoo,  the  Concord 
Lvceum  was  rarme  J  wtth  a  li*t  of  iftj  an 
flf>-t  of  whom  jaShe  nsintetcr  of  Ooneurd  I 
lionary  time,  Dr.  Biplfr,  and  as  tor 
kindly  permitted  ; 
i  ecomc  member*  i 
oThero.  Itorkwood  I 

then  of  tbe  age  of  twelve.  Xnare  axe  B»tag  "ta 
the  town  but  three  of  the  origgsnl  Iftj  leian, 
at.il  that  I  am* one  of  the  Muilsota  aaeasmt*  for 
nn  WU  g  recoeAe.1  to  preside  over  this  meeting  tsn« 
iV.ting.  The  other  two  now  living  In  Oo*eewl  jre 
TLoma"  F^Htmt  and  Mr.  Jo  " 


I  person*  'under  eighteen  year*  oM  *a 
i  on  paring  half  tne  sua  MSjirUsd  at 
d  Hoar  1»  the  nfly  bl  lenSti  on  thakss, 


l.-renri .  \>egauas  most  things  do  thas  avegeod.  trrjbe 
pi-'tartrjs  tr.bcwof  an  enthusiast,  Mr.  Jaeuth 
i  i-.iKof  floston,  a  man  who  rras  interested 
op;.-  and  mineralogy,  and  wen*  about  the 
eiing  sTatuilone  ten  uses-  upon  thoaes  . 
urfinic  the  people  of  the  cttlfrt  and  t**wtjs  tn 
h cenms  for  poMlar  education.  Hkscbnejeetak 
a  good  deal.  -  He  perroaded  tbe  people  of  i  salens 
lov.-n«  an<l  cBJjt»,  Borton,  and  Cbnrteatewn,  awd 
Salem  iiiid  "WArcc-rcT.  and  a  great  snesrr  sf  the 
emniler  towns. -of  tue  Commonwealth  as  ^art  saw 
l".  i-emr.^.  ThVrcl'^  l>ics  Y"tt  one,  howuaar,  dss*  hw* 
pi(^n""li'f  ^tM-^  Ui>e  tho  Tvo*iorstaat>  ot  She 
m-tirtition    wUch    ha    ninleiiiuftSTyi    |aM    ww 

uicndeo,    and     that     la    the     Bssen    siita ef 

.'■aie'ii.  It  has,  as  he  ptopesed 
M.oaUl  hare,  a  large  library,  an  - 
lectfon  of  objastMn  narnrel  hfrtorr, « 
era.ugy,  anil  nawug  eonre*  of  le 
ber-i  diri'.  in?  tMnwelves  tote  sect 
tion  of  the  ttudy  of  history,  science  1 
The  Concord  Lyceum  began  wr*k  f 
br  toe  Rev.  Barnard  Whitman  of  r? 
bW  Sapentttions."  It  absorbed  tare 
dtnnttna  wwrtoty,  and  liad  debates  as  i 
in  wiiicb  I  reroeialper  tbe  pairhn^aass.  — m  <n  ™w 
to  the  majority  jtrobably  of  thia  awlleaw  are  &n*r  a 
iraditton.  Dr.  Biplev  was  the  first  Prassshsat  of  -sba 
aocietr,  and  Jassmn  Darts  and  Daaaan  tteemen  Baa  an 
tbe  Vice  President*,  Lemuel  Shattaefc,  tbe  hhssarlaa 
of  tbe  town,  the  jreconhnp  Secretary .  and  the  Shhutae 
were  participated  in  br  eamuat  Hoar  and  ahasae 
l*rit«hard  and  Hflneas  Howe  and  Daniel  Bhsttm*  aaad 
Timothy  Piewiott  and  Epbrahn  Kerriam  seal  Cyras 
Homier.  It  bring*  back  to  the  bay  of  than  ■ 
the  old  man  of  to-day  niesaeiles  leal  an  isij 
«wi  iarpiefirc.  We  nspt  cetoUeawi  th»  smutaa- 
hKtitstionp  or^tr.  tftr  yearr  it  bnat,  for  tt  we  west 
for  tbe  expiration  of  the  century  -ansae  Is  -nasse  s»ha 
reiMeiaber  the  -fannJera.  Moat  of  The  treeasas-sajaa 
were  eMabliibed  were  short  lived.  That  In  tiottma,  of 
which  Daniel  Webster  was  President,  bused,  I  bahsva, 
some  eight  or  ten  rears.  Titer  fell  off  almost  every- 
where, hot  with  that  panttsaev,  whine  ma  " 
ouraerree  la  somewbnt  a  chamcterisHe  ef  r 
hare  steadily  matatamed  ear  eoarsss  of  I 
kept  up  tbe  Lyeeux  t,  until  now  it  hen  sesmsasd  ssi 
period  of  fifty  veers.  It  seems  te  the  yesager 
a  matter  of  eunies,  bat  I  ask  yon  P 
moment  and  thtak  what  this  i " 
done  for  this  sows.  What  an 
upon  this  coniiauulfy ,  what  sa 
tion,  of  cultvre,  of  social  aoquatataneek 
For  fifty  years,  through  these  tin  i  —Ire  ' 


96 


old  and  tbe  young  h><   t  come  here  to£e:lr  -  .     -ee 
each  others' faces.  tn<  yunij  men   n  I  v.ni ■-■ 
rimes,  perhay.*.   with   -ther  views  than    •: 
lectual  culture,  bat  all  of  an   frieu'il>.  >••   . 
and   ene»ce'l   in   a   pursuit  imioceiit  and  l.< 
Aid  there  has  been  poured  out  nefore  n  \  re 
to  onr  mind*  and  iioart*,  lnstruvtv.u.itb*-  ui 

which  no  statement  of  mine  can  pow-iblv  m  ■••■    tiiaj-<\ 
It  l-  wonderful  to  look  through  thw  rec\>r<l  and  l 
the  list  of  Wtumia  that  hare  addressed  our  tnwr  - 
people  In  t\i.i  Little  community.    It   ban  l*-^  nu     '  i 
ration  conducted  to  the,  most  catLolic  -pi  !t      '   -er. 
shade  cf  opinion  b.->-«   here  been  pre?t_r.r  1  sr  !   : 
s-ectfullT  entertained.    VHvr.  I  bwV  <rt    »n«t  before   ' 
ia,uje,  ovtr  :iie  scores  to  »ee  the  ranire  oi  i  lerirvir,>-, 
that  have  addre.  e«l  us.     From  I>r.  Brownaon.  ri 
rotnpll-bed  i  i-il.^'ic  scholar,  we  had  l>r .  tf.mnic 
tbe  Old  Sooth    anil   I>r.    Stono  of  Park   street. 
Unptlst  Dr.  Nc.'Mn.  Hedge,  Pr.  Chauta  (the  leader 
of   the  Universalis**,  Starr   King,  Eilw.u-il  Kverftr 
Hale,  James  Freeman  Clarke.  Mr.  Wei**.  Themlorr 
Parker.   sounding     tho    gamut     from    one   end   of 
the      icnle       ;<>        tbe       other.        Onr       Lycetu 
ha*  heard  lecture*  from  two  PreMlcnt-  oX  Ilui   .  ird 
OUeae,  Mr.  i'elton  :i'wl  Dr.  Hill,  from  Mi.  B     ■       oi 
New  HiTOii  Leonani  Havon,  from  Dr.  Iiunti- ai   :• 
from  Dr.  Gannett,  from  Dr.  Sears,  from   fto  .  1 1 
rbnl,  from  AVater>ton  and  QuJricv,  from  Hot.*  ••  fire.' 
let    and  John  V.  Hale,-  from    i.eorjre    Thomson    •' 
Englsnd,  from  Dr.  Palfrey,  Dr.  Frauds,   I»r   I 
from  Agassis:  and  Hohne*and   Lowell  and   Dnnn 
Whipple  sutl  Field,  from  .Tone*  Verry  and  '  eorge    ' 
Parte  and  Joseph   T.  BuckinjoaTu  an!  t  .V^V- 
Jacksca;  atuonsreniment  lawyers,  CUiei  Justice    >.; 
son,  Judge  Hopkim,  George  P.  Fmlej    mill  ."•    i4.  A, 
Grtftn.  Got.  Boutwell  and  Oov.  Banks,  from  Wend  u 
FhUllp*  and  George  William- tnrtl*. 

And  as  my  memory  goes  bee*,  through  the  li-   of 
earlier  days,  I  rei  n-mber  some  who*e  name*  b  • 
been  *o  fnmon-.  lmt  were  cnt  off  In  their  y 
besnty— Georg.-   rarrar,  one  of  the  most,  prtniisius 
Tonng  men  of  the  Commonwealth,  Ju«t  -Lirtinr     •  a 
laTvycrln  Cnarl*  town,  and  from  Deacon    1*.'."'     ■>! 
Urn  oli. ;  and  In  the  tirst  year  of  tbe  Lyceum .  r'.uw 
BUsa  Kmer«on  andfCtnttlm  Chnunc"*   Euier^n;    i  :  >• 
gave  to  u*  loftier  truth*  from  sweeter  live*  Mi   • 
senerstion  kn    .  *.    Tlie  only  time  that   I   pre 
fklwnr!  IVHs-  Pin.  Mm  •)*»*  la  putili  "■•  •  • 
Conreid  I    etoni,  v. here,  the  tlr*t  witter,  hi  d**l      '    ' 
a  le.*t'n>    <"i  ."' .    *  <;ei>graphT    of   Am-;,"        j 
whb.h  to  thr  tcbuol  l.oy  sounded  rer.- iln.    I .  ■• 
nn  In  tl'.;.  uul\  "»».r  llie  old  Academy,  witl'k  u  1 ..  *■■    •• 
with  a  painted  outline  of  Asia  upon  It   with  a  wan  !   it 
hi*  hand,  and  entranced  tbe  attention  of  tln>  audi- 
enee.    I  retiie>iil«cv  now  but  one  line  of  Mart  lecture— I 
rer-ember   lr.uu   '  earlne  it  fifty  year*  :^!.'»--t^•,   '•- 
line  of  a  t>o<  ncai  i|HOt3tioti  w»«U  wLV!i  be  clos^<t  - 
••  Anil  *e.-k  uo  i^tlu-r  cestlng  place  i>»t  lleaven  " 

Charles    Chauncej    V.men«r.."i  lev.  are  on  s,Kr.it> 

was  the  most  ytirrini  appe  I  to  tho  rouac  men  wli;ti 

at  that  time  they  bad  ev-r  heard,  cloKing  with  tl<e  line. 

"  God  for  thee  ha*  done  hi*  part,  do  thine." 

We  have  had  aaany  latereatlnc  lecture*  frcwi  "  n» 
of  the  town,  from  rfidoat*  of  Concent,  t  b^v»  I  I ■>-.■ 
me  a  list  of  those  wh»  have  lecturetl.  loo  Ion?  hi  read 
ta detail.  Frwn  it  it  appear*  that  Mr.  Tboaaaa  £■'■<■»  n- 
1»  lectures  before  the  L\ cenui,  Dr.  Jurvt*  17.  Dc.vou 
Kahemiab  Rail  17.  at  which  I  wen  eenzember  a  eouiwa 
tn  natural  Mstory  Uleatrated  by  a  u.tcic  laatcm  on  n 
Terr  larg*  scale,  and  the  delight  with  which  the  j  min* 
people  viewed  the  Tenre*enfatTT<  ot  every  Uno 
inecie*  of  ape-  monkey  and  IrfiMwm.  o<x'cmpaiue<l  by 
a  verv  prroi^e  <>nd  accurate  statement  nt  Hielr  length 
from'  the  tin  of  fhe  i"->e  to  the  it. -<-.;- 
tlon  of  the  tall.  l»ev.  Mr.  Ero.r  ?;>• 
eight  lecture".  Dr.  Ripley  tw*  \e.  Deneon 
{  vm«  Hf*Tner  ten,  Mr.  Rsn'xltB  rf.ven  the  Ltte  Ui 
Itejoolds  nine.  Mr.  AV  neildc .•  one  Mr.  Mian"  oue 
fort-  vcj^b  acoaud  one  moras  — eently..  - 

But  rm\  wfli  all  hare  BOtii-M  in  thi*  narrarivp  th" 
omission  of  one  nam*.    It  w*«  the  f»Uctty  of  th<  L  - 


hjstoij.cl  ■   ■  •■■  ««m<v.u.».  •!   detail,  ail? 

•lil»'  i   o:    (  oneord  arill  »tan  noca  tta 

.:.        -  .  'npl.-itse.)  ,  'Tf 

J       -i    .  <•■-■!  9Tb*  the.i  ,-•  . 

I?."    -\  j  iidCQ  Hcm*.  hi  - 

,>    ..      '  .■  ■  i  .    .'vriti  01    6hC  -"  . 

loti  .  ml  fci      ;-faiiiii-_7  v- 


TL.-  "  ..i7  PDiiosophert KflBord  of  His 
Dead  Companion. 


,    ,^    ...     Together  fir   N  ~;«rly  ITair  «   Cen- 

••i  ;      '        lyl^     Oiip    .;T    tlio    Tiinitv  of 

ii  .L,i,eei    .-ut-llst*  —  inviting 

lllm  to     America. 


i  as  it  w:.s  the  good  fortune  oi  the  tjim  that  3T»\ 
Etr»Tson  came  to  fire  among  us.  He  hs*  delivered 
beCore  the  Concord  Ljceuin  in  th>- pn*t  nJ't.  >e-»r*  *? 
lecture*,  jlr.  Emehson's  pro«>"iC"  t'cnliibt  i*  :  «ome 
extent  an  er'larTa*«ment  to  me.  ntstuAt  be  t"i 
when  this  cuii'tnunttv  sball  be  free  t.  yivi- ;'  '  tw 

sioti  to  it«  gratitude  ««  him,  and  to  the  is>ve  an  I  a  "•■••- 
tinn    n-hicbbls  townsmen  benr  to  him.    .Apji"-'-  > 
Bu:  onr  cremony  would  he  lrj'>mpbte  If  I  di  ' 
von  to  psnse  for  a  moment  ai»l  to  tl  \tlX  what  t '. 
pie  statement  of  Nasse  !*»  lectnr«»ua|>Ue<  nod  m<   ins. 
What  a  wealth  of  latellcctual  r-easn-9  hss  been  ;f  — •" * 
oo»  hefore  this  people.    Wb^it  keenneseof  ana-7 
whrt  t-ertstres  of  wit  awl  *ri<  iini.  >»hat  lotty  and 
'oiring  Uiougbt.  what  wasltb  ov  nob'e  lu>  i*  ci"  -• 
i.i  tho»e  nw  ««cript  pace*'. 

Tii*  TinKfrre  of  Mr.  Bmewtui    in  Concord    '      r' 
the    .'luearlon  of  tbe  town.  It  rtn*  giveu  U  Its  prul  >\ 
(U-th'.ct'o;i  Ir   our  cenerstion ,  and  we  owe  ve.v  "*a 
t>i  tbe  lecrrt-e-  which  hare  been  glv^n  ns  by  pe--'>r- 
dintiiietion    a>id    emtoenoe  from  othe-  pl:ri-     i.g 
de*ir.-  to  vi»it  «n<l  *ee  Mr.  Ei'*r*«i  ami  ".  tiling  u 
M»  irlerO*  to  routHbute  to  the  entertainment     I 
t'"-n-in»n.    I  most   not  t«iVe  np  your  thne.    I 
i.etl .in;  «rerialt«i    :iv  to  tou.  but  there  t<  " 
Hi»i   -Mnes  int  tbongbts   '*-    '  '  •'  V  bvk  ov  • 

*:*>    •  •■  ■-  it'll  >f    '     .-..'•  art  of  !)"■   •" 

••  •»•,*    of  j    tendei  I  »'  nhette. 

••»■■  "!iT.t»  ■    •  itor      t      *.i   '   and  'nt'"  •* 


-  jrrc?»ondenc*  of  THX  Pres*. 
C  okt),  J^ily  28—  The  first  d»y  >f  tbe 
Corse  i:  i  -  '  ool,  which  this  year  has  bat  two 
U>pics  foi  discnasioa — Emerson  and  Inimoi- 
:  i':-v—  brought  together  an  aadience  t'rotu 
-.iMi'.y  hall  the  states  of  the  union— fiora 
California,  Colorado,  Nebraska,  Missouri. 
Louisiana  and  Michican — as  well  as  frot 
Mi  -  ..  liisetts.  New  York  andPennsyivania.. 
Th,  ..  .,  hillside  chapal  was  filled  at  tha 
evening  session,  when  Jolian  Hawthorne 
read  b.s  paper  en  "Emerson  as  an  Ameri- 
ca,)," .  ich  was  voted  to  be  a  much  mere 
•  criticism  of  the  poat-pbilo«opher 
than    Uosa  of  Arnold  and  John  Morley. 

At  tho  morning  session,  after  a  "Manet  by    communlo 
?*:•.!>  T.iizarus,  some  passages  were  rea<l  from 
the  early  diaries  of  Mr.  Aicott  (whose  healtb 
pret  •     »d   his  jireseoce  at  the  school),  con 

.    lug   "he   flrsi  years  of  his  aoquaiata 
with   Emerson,   prefaced  with  tnia  introduc- 
tion: 

the  topics  proposed  for  diaoosslon  wc 
to  commence  on  the  "Genius  anil  Cb  u- 
Emerson,"  was  one  of  "Eu.ei  on  i 
!>s,''  but  alonz  wtth  the  other  mlsfor 
.....  ,..  -.,  ».r^  Montt'*$.cii  tliltatd  illn"ss  brings 
to'-~  :.  i. :.  o:v,  that  It  acp.-irc*  c=  of  tl.  Vi 
anil  Llie  '  .jui;htso;  that  friend  of  Emerson  uln 
tU  hesida  him  for  nearly  half  acenlury,  and 
- 1  .  u  •  be«  have  spoken  on  tbis  deli(thtfnl 
tb.cme  A -none  rr-e  qualitie*  of  oarfrie.ici  icl 
m  re  .  r.  'tie  was  more  conspicuous  or  mi  r3 
cb  :.  ;. -iian  bis  loyalty  in  friendship.  His  Arab 
a  the  ii.»e  n  ~Her~n'one,'  who  in  other  p»»~ ace* 
nttei-»  the  i*nUmentsof  Emertoa.  aowhere  speaks 
saor«  truly  .baa  la  *-- it 
"I  ata  of  a  He  eae* 

That  each  for  eacb  -->tb  fast  erza«er' 
aad  tbar  n^t!*  poor-  whicb  precsdes  tha  assay  on 
•Vrlendship,"    de»rr:K«>i   no  frlead  stara  falth- 
♦^ii-   br.-  Ttr'imn-  himself: 

"I  raoct*-!  ha  waa  led— 
R*tt,  afttr  raaay  a  year 
t'  Olowesl  unexpected  kindness. 

Like  dail:  sunrise  there." 
Tn  -  •>  perassi 


xuincd  by  the  attacks  of  tho  Boston  news- 
papers, on  -dr.  Atcott's  opinions. 

£merson  and  Alcott  at  onoe  grew  Intimate, 
as  rmy  '>c  seen  +>j  this  extract  from  the  lat- 
ter's  diary  of  July  12,  1835: 

A  few  days  since  Mrs.  Morrison,  of  Pbllndel- 
pjla,came  In  town  brtnzin?  me  letters  from  Mr. 
.  :-i»*r  i  Last  erenlna;  she  saw  several  ot  your 
trlentts,  persons  with  whom  we  wished  her  to  be- 
come acquainted.  Among"  these  were  tbe  follow- 
ing: Mr.  Waldo  Kmerson.  Charles  Rfflenon,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  I).  V.  Child,  Mr.  S.  J.  May,  Miss  Eliza- 
beth p.uu  Miss  Mary  Peabody  (now  Mrs.  Horace 
.M-i—  ,.  Mrs.  Bliss  (now  Mrs.  Oeorze  Bancroft), 
11  -.  Mary  Emerson,  Miss  EUaabetb  Hoar  and 
others. 

Later  in  the  Bammer,  AVasaat  10,  Mr.   Al* 

«iii.  wiites  :  J 

*  T  bars  been  tn  attendance  at  the  American  lav 
3t-;t,iite  of  Instruction,  at  the  State  House  In  the 
Jhsy  Do  e.  at  Chsancy  Hall  in  the;  evening.  Oat 
Vbhoadav  at  Ii  o'clock.  Rev.  Mr.  Ferness,  ot  Phil* 
ffd'lonia.  Kara-  aa  introductory  address  oa  the! 
f  StvrifWtfce-Trne  Teacher."  aaeleqoeat  perfomv 
»<••!.  A  *  «  p.  M. ,  Re  v.  Mr .  Emerson,  of  Concord, 
fcasr*  n  !"f!rur>!  on  "Tbe  Means  of  Inspiring  a  Taste 
*~  ifcaclish  fcue-atDre."  These  two  lectures  were 
' bf  a  more  spIHteul  characUi  dUta  iiave  b**i<  ?re» 
isented  at  the  Institute  ou  former  occasions.  Tbey 
rnrpite  hope.  They  are  proufs  that  sometime* 
:tnore  U  fdlt  in  the  community  tbaa  tha  material. 
•Tbe  members  of  the  Institute,  many  of 
them  teaebers  from  the  country,  persona  *f 
pyrrrnr  views  *M  *r>r*r.*r,.:'a!^tt3htiaeuUt  were  oa^ 
prepared  to  follow  tbe  lectures,  yet  they  seemed] 
to  listen  with  interest,  aad  to  feel.  If  they  did  not 
'Spnrecl  -  te,  th*  truths  announced.  * 

^      IXMTIKO  CAALTLE  TO  BMW  B^OLAJTD. 

j  Through  the  rear  1835  Mr.  Alcott  was  deep 
Is  the  study  of  Plato  and  the  Bible,  which  be 
frtuoi.  1c  accordance  with  each  other  and  with 
t.is  own  thoughts,  and  he  was  also  in  close 
with    those  readers    of  Carlyle 


Among 
ars  about 
acter  oi 
Fries 


ebo  were  inviting  him  to  New  Eneiand,  and 
er«  —  nc?.ing  a  new  magazine  to  be  called 
:TheTranseendenta1ist,"  of  which  mention 
•Is  mttr!a  in  Emerson's  letters  to  Cirlyle  of 
March  12  and  April  30,  1835.  Or  this  project 
'Emerson  wrote:    r 

Dr.  Channinc  lay  awake  all  night,  he  told  my 
friend  last  week,  because  he  had  learned  tn  tbe 
evening  that  some  yonng  men  proposed  to  issue  a 
Journal  to  bo  called  the  "Transcendentalist"  as  tbe 
erjjran  or  asplrltual  philosophy.  •  *  *  »  If  Mr. 
Carl y! a  would  undertake  a  journal  ot  which  we 
hare  talked  much,  but  which  we  bare  nerer  yet 
produced,  be  would  do  us  great  service,  and  we 
'"•'  some  confidence  that  it  could  be  made  to  se- 
cure fc-.ru  a  support.  It  Is  to  be  called  the 
"Transcendentalist."  or  tbe  "Spiritual  Inquirer." 
or  the  lib*,  and  Pi  H.  Hedge  was  to  he  tbe  editor. 
Hedga  is  just  learinc  onr  neighborhood  to  ha  set- 
tled as  a  minister  HO  miles  oil.  in  Maine,  and  en- 
treats that  you  will  edit  tbe  journal.  He  will 
wite.  and  I  pieaas  myself  with  thinking  that  I 
shall  be  abie  to  -vrite  under  such  auspice*. 
jj  To  rh:s  invitation  Cariyle  listened,  and  re* 
aponded  (May  13,  1835): 

,  The  Boston  "Transcendentalist,  *'  whatever  tbe 
f-f "  or  merit  of  it  msy  prore  to  be.  Is  surely  an  lo- 
^e~estlng  symptom.  There  must  be  things  not 
£reamt  of  in  that  trans-ocpanic  parish.  I  shall 
'eordlally  wish  well  to  this  thing,  and  bail  It  as  tbe 
_  srurs  forernnaer  of  things  ^etter.  InnameraM* 
was  this  high  eamuaatwnship  ftsra|  TBUault,  ^    ^^^le,    *,»«    ».    stru^t.d 

jtehjsr  ao4  aaaShshtldisst  mm Jkiito  Mr.  Alcott.  ^w        M-    J"  ^  traB>CO[IUTOtalUra  ,;olT# 

land  we  bare  therefore  asked  him  to ^allow  vs.  ha    ltlc|,  fa   .^   cothanM,a   of    metaphrsios   alt*. 

•uf ..:.  readiegfro.,  Ins  diarhw  and  oorrespond-  Ha,  it  be  sore,  mar  ,t  be  speedy! 

erce  ot  tha  last  flftr  years  of  these  few  passages. 

-     .   ■         '     _  „™_„„-,  Kr??DRED  ASPlf.v  CKJXS. 

;  t.  *I  rTi.,,,.1  „  «T1*L.^>._.<.»..M       Pa*33gas  were  Then    read   from   the  diaries 

-.-  that  Alontt  mad.  thn  seqnnfnttne.     f  and    fnm 

bb?£r        ->n  atatrrnrae  of  lec'ares  in  Boston 


tn  183i.  wbau  E;aerson  gare  biographical 
-i-  tel  .■*  at  Miebs  il  Antrclo,  Lather,  Mil  on, 
•  .  ?ot.  Eurb-0  ":c.  At  this  time  'Cajer- 
«on  was  "'Z  and  A.cott  3"  years  old.  ard  the 
jmt1  _  .,  ,..  leaching  k  *c  not  f->r  tdqc^  chil- 
•*  ths  -»i  "ric  T«-^-i«  in  Boston, 
h  .  toon  b^ca-T"  l'amotTs,  but  wai  ^»Ter 
r-r.  .  vcoessfui   r-"»unrarily  and  was  tnally 


ths  correspondence  of 
Uraereon  with  Ale  'tt  iu  those  years,  aad  inv 
3800,  after  tbe  p»  -  .ecutions  of  tbe  Transceo- 
edeuraiiit?  by  tl.o  counerratires  in  re'.lgionl 
s.  politics  bad  begun.  Mr.  Alcott  than 
!    bis    estimate   of  the    friend   wltb 


i-S&QBVli "  hvi  hecou 

"  p  Toss'syr^d:  .:  a  A'w-*ii;--  in  0<ncoTdi 
■i      >     ^\'e  bare    much    \  i^n<y,  to  say  o»  tH*> 


bresest  aspo. '.  and  r?ndenc)  >  •.  :.,v  :.i.vics.  A 
.<»»  »»!  controversy  Is  o^l»:nj  over  our  heads. 
H'>no»jstr.{  inflicnri-»  are  at  wori  in  the  very 
*i«rc  at  today.  nW  '••rata  *re  noli  I  >  '  e  o»<t  off. 
Thaoouljs  sliviildirk;  ^  il.uifh  ami  renewing  l£- 
;»!f.  Tiie  rimiii,t  i  besotted  are  looiu.ijt  on  with 
fear.  Views  with  which  our  name  are  associated 
are  to  bo  assail  ed  is  tbe  prolific  Cause  of  this  over- 
turn o.  lions*  We  ve  tn  he  wade  the  buttof 
sectarian  caail;-1  Persecutions,  fierce  and  unre- 
leatinj.  jre  to  t>e  waged  aintrist  ua.  Onr  tampers 
are  v..  2m  tried.  I  shall  lllte  to  lew  a  tbe  mood  of 
this,  ray  brot'.ier,  as  he  looks  oat  from  the  seclu- 
sion cf  bis  mi al  retreat.  Brother— that,  Is  a  kind- 
line  name '  I  'eel  the  sentiment  of  kiadred  quicken 
wtttilu  ucsil  write  it  He  is  a  brother  of  wine, 
ai.ii  an  only  one.  Ail  other  men  seem  strange  to 
tne  when  I  think  of  him,  for  uootliei  knows  me 
so  well,  and  I  vara*  none  so  dourly.  1  may  confide 
In  him.  Bravest  among  my  contemporaries,  he 
i  walks  tbe  earth  magnanimously,  and  X  behold  hi* 
trorit  and  despair  not  of  men.  A  spirit  like  hi* 
shall  not  be  cowed.  An  insight  like  bis  shall  gala 
its  meed  of  honor.  My  brother,  we  shall  do  and 
dare.  God  is  on  oar  side.  We  believe  in  the  real, 
and  snail  come  off  victorious  in  our  warfare  against 
the  seaming. 

F.MEBSONTA1*    CTI IB ACTttRISTICg. 

Ou  Thursday,  Friday  and  Saturday  of  last 
week,  Bev.  Dr.  Bartol  'and  Mr.  £.  D,  Mead 
(tbe  champion  of  Mr.  Blaine  against  the 
Boston  bolters),  read  lectures  ou  Emerson's 
religion  and  ethics;  Dr.  Harris  on  Ma  view 
of  nature;  Mr.  John  Alboe,  a  charming 
paper  en  his  matter  and  manner  as  an  essay* 

i-%  and  Mrs.  Julia  Ward  Howe  On  "Emir- 
si  u'si  ligations  to  Soctety.** 

To-day  Miss  Elisabeth  Peabody  has  lec- 
tured on  bis  preaching  from  tbe  Unitarian 
pulpits  of  Boston,  New  Bedford  and  Lexing- 
tiui,  where  she  frequently  beard  him  be- 
tween 182d  and  1S37,  and  Mra.  Cheney  told  of 
bis  reception  in  Boston  after  be  left  tbe  pnl- 
pit  aud  made  tbe  lecturer's  desk  bis  place  of 
instruction  fur  many  years  in  that  city. 
Miss  Peabody,  in  the  absence  of  Mr.  Alcott, 
is  tbe  oldest  member  of  the  faculty  of  the 
school,  and  participate*  every  day  iu  the  ccn- 
\  craatiDiis,  as  Mrs.  Howe  did  on  Batnrday, 
but  Mrs.  Cheney  made'her  first  appearance 
to-day. 

Among  other  lecturers  present  are  Bev. 
Dr.  H  oiland,  of  2Jew_  Orleans;  M.  de  Poyen, 

rho  addresses  , 


97 

so  deeply.  There  is  a  speedy  limit  to  prtv 
fligate  politics. 

.  Fear  disenchants  life  and  tbe  world.  If 
I  bare  not  my  own  respect,  I  am  an  Im- 
postor, not  entitled  to  other  men's,  and  had 
i  ^fter  creep  Into  my  grave.  I  admire  the 
sentiment  of  Thoreau,  who  said,  "Nothing 
is  so  much  to  be  feared  as  fear;  God  trim- 
self  likes  atheism  better."  For  the  world 
is  a  battle-around;  every  principle  is  a  war 
r.stc,  »iid  ilic  i>io*wraJe-t  and  protected  life 
is  at  any  moment  exposed  to  incidents 
which  ten  your  firmness.  The  illusion  that 
strikes  mc  as  the  masterpiece  in  that  ring 
of  illusions  which  our  life  Is,  Is  tbe  timidity 
with  which  we  assert  onr  moral  sentiment. 
Y\>  are  made  of  it,  tbe  world  is  built  by  it, 
thine*  endure  as  they  share  It;  all  beauty, 
all  health,  all  Intetttgenr  extet  by  It;  yet 
we  shrink  to  speak  it  or  to  range  ourselves 
by  its  side.  Nay,  we  presume  strength  of 
him  or  them  who  deny  It.  Cities  go  against 
It;  tbe  coUejre  goes  against  it:  tbe  courts 
snatch-  at  any  precedent,  at  any  vicious 
form  nf  law  to  rule  it  out;  legislatures  lis- 
ten ■  Ui  appetite  to  declamations  against  it 
•n<~.  m-  it  down.  Every  new  aasertrr  of 
the  right  surprises  nj,  like  a  man  joining 
tbe  church,  and"  we  hardly  believe  be  Is  In 
earnest.  * 

Bo^wbat  we-  do  and  suffer  4s tts  moments; 
Che  ours*,  of  right  for  which  we  labor  never 
eUe*)  works  in  long  periods,  can  afford 
many  checks,  gain*  by  oar  defeats,  and  will 
know  bow  to  compensate  our  extreniest 
sacrifice.  Wrath  and  petulance  may  have 
their  snort  success,  bar  they  quickly  reach 
their  brief  date  and  decompose,  whilst  the 
massive  might  of  ldeaa  U  Irresistible  at  last. 
Whose*  does  this  knowledge  comet  Where 
la  the  source  of  power? "  The  soul  of  God  Is 
poured  Into  the  world  through  the  thoughts 
of  men.  The  world  stands  on  Ideas  and 
not  on  Iron  or  cotton;  and  the  Iron  of  Iron, 
tbe  fire  of  fire,  t*>e  ether  sad  source  of  all 
the  element*  is  moral  force. 
.  A*  cloud  on  cloud,  as  snow  on  snow,  as 
-tbe.  bird  on  the  sjr,  and  tbe  planet  rests  on 
ispace  In  its  flight-  so  do  tbe  nations  of  men 
and  their  Institut-ons  rest  on  thoughts. 
Ralph  Waxoo  Exbbsox. 


la'er,  ii'  they  bad  a  good  chance  for  nn  invest- 
rner.t.were  glad  to  get  Emerson's  surplus  into 
it  a\;>i  forward  him  good  dividends.  His  mother 
may  have  been  a  little  distressed  at  first  by 
the  si  range  opinions  that  bad  separated  him 
from  tbe  church,  but  she  soon  found  that  be 
had  chosen  tbe  better  part.  Surrounded 
thus  by  all  the  resources  of  happiness,  Emer- 
son sorrowed  most  for  his  friend  Caflyle  in 
bis  lonely  home  on  the  bleak  moors,  and 
again  urged  bim  to  come.  He  ottered  Carlyle 
his  home  and  even  bis  own  destiny.  He 
prophesied  and  pictured  for  him  a  career  in 
America  singularly  resembling  tbe  career 
afterward  fulfilled  by  himself.  "He  need  to 
write,"  said  Carlyle  to  me,  "of  solid  and 
honest  farmers,  and  said,  'Horace  Greeley 
does  their  thinking  for  them  at  a  dol- 
lar a  bead.' "  Whereat  CkrlyU  was 
mirthful;  but  one  can  now  see  a  sad  contrast 
lu  she eavrrcDnicntt  whichih*  ofct  worliTand 
new  had  severally  assigned  to  these  repre- 
sentatives of  tbe  same  era.    Carlyle  pnlsse 


\  \\  >*p  !*\ -friend  «{ mine  nsedtos.iv  thai 


a  French  student  of  Emerson, 

the  audience  in  French;  and  Professor  David-  ,, 

eon,  the  translator  of  Aristotle,  who  talks  in-  ,  ,n  ™ triage* moj OiouM  seek  a  eoul  thai  cairn 

differently  in   Scotch,  French,  Italian,  Latin,  h,f<? ™  "•"rW  nD°ut  the  same  time  as  lum- 

Graek    or    German,    and    is   an   agreeable ■*' '        So  i.inerson  once  said  to  me.    L'uMtn 


In 


intpgTVAL  roitcm*. 

-Soma  Treths  Expressed  l»  Kmerson** 
Foretbse  Way.    ■ 

Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  thus  concludes  an 
article  on  "Perpetual  Force*"  in  the  cur- 
rent number  of  the  Norm  American  Be- 
vlew: 

All  our  political  disasters  grow  at  logi- 
cally out  of  onr  attempt*  in  the  past  to  do 
without  justice,  as  the  sinking  of  some  part 
of  your  bouse  come*  of  defect  in  the  foun- 
dation. One  thing  is  plain;  a  certain  per- 
sonal virtue  Is  essential  to  freedom,  and  It 
betrtu*  to  be  doubtful  whether  onr  corrup- 
tion in  this  country  ha*  not  gone  a  little 
oyer  the  mark  of  safety:  so  that  when  can- 
vassed we  shall  be  found  to  be  made  np  of 
a  majority  of  reckless  self-seekers. 

I  hope  better  of  the  State,  Half  a  man's 
wisdom  goes  wlth-ai*  courage.  A  boy  wtsO 
knows  that  a  bally  lives  around  the  corner 
which  he  must  pas*  on  hi*  daily  way  to 
school  Is  apt  to  take  a  sinister  view  of 
street*  and  of  school  education.  And  a  sen- 
sitive politician  suffers  hi*  ideas  of  tbe  nart 
New  York  or  Pennsylvania  or  OmOaretoplay 
in  the  future  of  tbe  Union  to  be  fachtoaed 
by  the  election  of  rogues  In  some  coun- 
ties.   But  we  must  not  gretlry  th*  rogue* 


Jackson,  whom  be  married  In  lSifi,  exceeded 
him  a  li'tle  in  ace,  and  The  spiritual  breath 
of  tho  same  era  was  upon  her.  Born  beside 
Plymouth  Bock,  she  had  become  of  sneb 
mark«tl  derotcduess  iu  tbe  church  "there 
founded  by  the  Pilgrims— dedicated  by  her 
ancestors  to  the  God  of  Calvin,  anil  ascended 
to  the  G-'-d  of  Thanning — and  so  unweari-:-^ 
in  her  charities  that  she  was  kuouu  as  "the 
Staiut  of  Plymouth."  Yet,  whenever  the 
'Oast  supper"  was  to  be  celebrated  iu  thi* 
church,  Irs  saint  arose,  and.  from  the  o'd 
family  pew  near  the  pulpit,  walked  dorm  the 
aisle  r.ud  out  of  the  church.  TbiB  was  no*, 
because  she  did  not  honor  the  rire,  but  be- 
cause she  held  its  maintenance  a-;  a  condition 
of  ennrch  membership  to  be  its  per icrsion 
and  dishonor.  Mrs.  Emerson  brought  some 
pecuniary  addition  to  his  menus,  and  the 
hou---.  wiih  its  pleasant  garden,  in  which  b« 
7-.-d  To  work,  and  severs'.  'acr~.-.  were  pur- 
chased. Einersonnow  regarded  himself  as  r» 
ri'-b  inn  ii,  with  his  homestead,  about  §20,UOU 
in  money,  and  an  increasing  demand  for  his 
•  ecr>;re«.  Then,  as  always,  he  and  his  wii'u 
knew  the  nrt  of  spending.  Simplicity,  gnnd 
taste,  comfort,  hospitality,  sincerity,  vera 
the  furniture  of  this  Concord  home.  There 
were  business  men  in  Boston  who  revered  the 
scholar  rind  philosopher,  audperhr.ps  then  as 


poverty,  while  every  posthumo 
witaess  to  its  miserable  effect  upon  himself 
and  bis  miserable  life  Emerson  never  knew 
real  poverty;  even  while  he  drove  hi*  moth- 
er*!* cow  to  pasture  there  were  prospect*  of 
oleuty  around  him  in  every  drreotien,  and  no 
room  for  fear  or  misgiving  about  th*  future. 
To  a  healthy  and  intelligent  youth  America 
was  already  a  fortune.  Carlyle'*  "Blessed 
be  poverty"  is  not  so  wise  aa  Solomon's 
"Give  me  neither  poverty  nor  ftehea."  After 
all  it  is  a  mean  thing,  the  stingy!*  for  exist- 
euce,  to  a  thinker  whose  mind  should  he  free 
to  detach  the  poetic  dream  of  it*  youth  from 
the  local  mould,  and  sound  a  melody  for  the 
young  world.  "Concordia"  lost  nothing 
from  its  notes  having  passed  through,  that 
furnace  smoke. 

Much  more  will  have  to  he  said  sborrt 
Emerson's  homo  as  tbe  birthplace  of  many 
souls,  but  I  insert  here  reminiscences  written 
by  Louisa  Alcott,  whose  tales  have  carried 
far  the  morning  breath  of  Concord. 

"My  tirst  remembrance  is  of  the  morning 
when  I  was  sent  to  inquire  for  little  Waldo, 
then  lying  very  ill.  His  father  came  to  me 
so  worn  with  watching  and  changed  by  sor- 
row, that  I  wa*  startled,  and  could  only 
stammer  out  my  message.  'Child,  he  is  dead  !* 
was  his  answer.  Then  the  door  closed,  and 
I  ran  home  to  tell  the  sad  tidings.  I  was 
only  eight  years  old  and  that  was  my  first 
glimpse  of  a  great  grief,  but  I  never  have 
forgotten  the  anguish  that  made  a  familiar 
face  so  tragical,  and  gave  those  few  words 
more  pathos  than  the  sweet  lamentation  of 
the  'Threnody.  * 

"Later,  when  we  went  to  school  with  the 
little  Emersons  in  their  father's  barn,  I  re- 
member many  happy  times  when  th*  illus- 
trious papa  was  our  good  playfellow.  Often 
piling  us  into  a  bedecked  hay-cart,  he  took  us 
to  berry,  bathe  or  picnic  at  Wasden,  making 
our  day  charming  and  memorable  by  show- 
ing us  the  places  he  loved,  the  weed-people 
Thoreau  had  introduced  to  him.  or  the  wild- 
flowers  whose  bidden  home*  he  had  discov- 
ered. So  that  when  years  afterward  we  read 
of  'the  sweet  rhodora  in  the  woods'  and  'the 
burly,  dozing  bumble-bee,'  or  laaghed  over 
'The  Mountain  and  the  Squirrel,'  we  recog- 
nized old  friends,  and  thanked  him  for  the 
delicate  truth  and  beauty  which  made  them 
immortal  for  us  and  others. 

"When  the  book  mania  fell  upon  me  st 
fifteen  I  used  to  venture  into  Mr.  Emerson's 
library  and  ask  what  I  should  read,  neren 
conscious  of  the  audacity  of  my  demand,  sd 
genial  was  my  welcome  His  kind  ham; 
opened  to  me  the  riches  of  Shakespeare, 
Dante,  Goethe  and  Carlyle;  and  I  -grerefully 
recall  the  sweet  patience  with  which  he  led 
me  round  the  book-lined  room  till  th*  new 
and  very  interesting  book'  wa*  found,  or  the 
indulgent  look  be  wore  when  I  proposed 
something  far  above-  my  comprehension. 
'Wait  a  little  for  that,'  ha  said.  'Meantime 
try  this,  and  if  you  like  It  come  again.'  For 
many  of  these  wise  hooka  I  am  waiting  still, 


very  patiently,  because  in  his  own  I  have- 
found  the  truest  delight,  the  best  inspiration 
of  my  life. 

4i\Vhen  these  same  precious  volumes  were 
tumbled  out  of  the  window  while  his  house 
was  burning  some  years  ago,  as  I  stood 
guarding  the  scorched,  wet  pile,  31r.  Eraer- 
sou  passed  by  and  surveyed  the  devastation 
with  philosophic  calmness,  only  said  in  an- 
swer to  my  lamentations,  'I  see  my  library 
under  a-  new  aspect.  Could  you  tell  ma 
where  my  good  neighbors  have  flung  my 
boots  ?' .  *  *  *  When  Emerson  and 
Carlyle  were  returning  one  day  from  a  visit 
to  Stonehenge  they  were  entertained  by  Sir 
Arthur  Helps  at  Bishop  Walthams,  with 
other  gentlemen,-  and  to  these  'friends  in 
council'  Emerson  told  an  anecdote  about 
Alcotr,  which  I  am  sorry  I  did  not  ask  him  to 
repeat  literally,  for  the  version  I  heard  may 
coutaiu  mythical  elements.  Alcott  seemed 
unable  to  produce  anything  for  which  the 
world  was  willing  to  trade,  and  the  family 
i,i5  i^<l..C3d»c  ™-»n».  On  one  occasion,  how- 
i-vtr.  he  became  the  owner  of  a  twenty -dollar 

'..I  j.ieoe,  which  caused  joy  in  his  hon«ehoU. 
>■;    the   .-ame   day   a   traveler    in    distress 

,_'.»•*:  ot  his  door,  and,  telling  a  piteous 
•  ...•-.    b<  sought  a  loan  of  live  dollars  Toenablo 

•  '  ji  i..  reach  home.     Alcotx  twld  him  he  had 

•  t  .1  :i.v-picce,  but  could  lend  h:ru  twenty. 
'  i  iiiative  was  accepted  with  a  sntisfac- 
i'i.:  ..'  •  shared  by  Mrs.  Alcott  wheu  she 
,i  . .  r>.'t timed  from  a  walk.  The  pnpprs 
i.  .  •  ,  i.ny  contained  a  description  of  rim 
rogue  and  how  he  had  swindled  other s. 
.M:  ,t  wis  in  some  domestic  disgrace  nntil  a 
!•  :.<•:■  arrived  containing  the  money,  the 
swindler  declaring  that  he  could  pot  make  np 
his  mind  to  rob  a  man  so-»4rapl<vhearted  as 
t . >  ^ive  four  times  the  amount  asked  for. 
Alcott  .-ilon*  recovered  his  money.  This,  or 
something  like  .t,  w:is  the  story  Emerson 
told  the  company.  Carlyle  sat  silent,  and 
When  dinner  was  announced  refused  to  pre- 
cede Emerson— 'he  was  alto^ether^.  jm* 
•ieked. ' » 

QflmlMiL 
It  war  discovered  on  Sunday  afternoon, 
daring  a  burial  in  Sleepy  Hollow  Ceme- 
tery, at  Concord,  Massachusetts,  that  the 
grave  of  Raloh  "\7nido  Emerson  had  been 
disturbed.  An  ex^Hiinatibn  showed  that 
it  had  been  *  oflsned  during  Saturday 
night  and  the  coffin  exposed,  butC  the 
ghouls  appear  tc^bAve  been  frighieitwtf 
away  beiore  they  couifl  get  at  the  body.' 
A  watch  has  been  .set^npon  .ihe  gryn 

until -it  can  be  covered   \vitti-a   hear} 
monument  of  stone. 


EMEftSGffS  FUKERAL 


Alt  Address  by  F.er.  Jai?y«  Free- 
jW***  man  Clarke,©,  lij 

y«»*»L       ?■*■■■ 

Tributes  from  Eca.  E.  Kockwood  Hoar 
full  I-?..  A.  *3ros«oa  Alcott 

Pr>t»*-.  Sc.'vice^jmd  Burial   lr«  Sleep, 
Hollow  Cemetery. 


The  obsequies  of  Pair!*  Waldo  Emerson  at 
Concord  yesterday  inwone  oJ  the  most  nota- 
ble^t  .eit>igs  that  has  ever  been  sren  In  the 
neighborhood  cf  Boston.  A  large  unaiber  of 
la<5^r  .id  cc--.t',;Ljen  distinguished  In  literary 
or  pvof^s-donal  life  went  out  from  Boston  bv 
the  trains  at  1  P.  '\  and  2.13  F.  M.  At  2.S0  P. 
>!.  a  ptlvate  service,  was  held  at  the.  home  of 
the  Emerson  family,  toe  Re-v.  Dr.  Furness  of 


98 

Philadelphia  -ii,!  i..an;.  The  I  antral  proces 
fieri  tbc  \«rnt  to  the  Chtach  of  the  Tivst 
Paiish  where  public  services  were  held,-  ic- 
elcdlne  TTlnctory  words  by  the  Hun.  T.. 
Ho'  kto" ■•.  Hoar,  Sct'-orre  reading  by  the  Eev. 
Dr.  run'vss,  :in  ;.'Vtic=s  hy,  the  Rev.  James 
rree.aim  <  larkc,  psi»/ci  '■  y":he  lie--.  Howard  N. 
'iJiown  i  f  BrcokUue,  ;n  ■  r  ^em  by  i.  Brer -.on 
Alcott.  Hie  remain.-  were  then  conveyed  to 
?>»T»y  Hollow  Cemetery,  where  they  were  In- 
t  .rrcd  •  itu  :iati:2s.lemnity. 

T! -:*.  PRIVATE  SERVICES. 

No?  since  the  solemn  scones  of  theohscqnles 
Of  Itawthcrue  It  thut  balmy  spring  day  seven- 
teen year.;  ajro  !-.*«  an  »r?nt  occurred  at  Con- 
eord  to  co.npare  with  the  coinmlstal  to  earth  of 
Ralph  ttal'io  Emerson.  The  same  venerable 
ch:r  ',  ••  itr.r'sed  ilie  parting  tribu.-;  to  the 
d;-.i  i,  ,  :.  i  the  same  lovely  plot  of  ground  re- 
ceived all  that  remained.  The  company  that 
gathered  also  was  to  a  large  extent  Identical 
with  that  which  paid  tribute  to  Hawthorne,  and* 
was  of  kindred  pursuits  and  sympathies. 

VUltors  to  the  town  were  at  once  impressed 
with  the  feeling  of  general  bereavement  that 
•e*»med  to  have  fallen  upon  the  whole  commu- 
nity. A  subdued  and  saddoneo  air  seemed  to 
punade  the  very  atmosphere  of  tbe  place,  not 
withstanding  the  g-nial  sun  that  glided  the  Con- 
cord River  and  valley.  On  every  home,  from  the 
«che«t  to  t'..e  lowliest,  were  displayed  the  em- 
blem* of  m r-nrnlng.  From  tbe  tall  staff  that  oc- 
cupied the  centre  of  the  town  common  the  dag 
drooped  at  halt-mast,  wtrtt  long  streamers  of 
black  depending  fron^it.  At  2.30  P.  M.  a  prtvate 
servtc*  was  b'dd  attfceb.onse,  and  this,  though  In 
keeping  with  the  spirit  of  the  deceased,  entire- 
ly uiiosientrftious,  was  singularly  impressive  in 
ltsheart-totv-hjng  srmpilclty.  and  in  the  mute 
eloquence  c'  the  face  upturned  beneath  tbe 
lofty  array  o»  booka  with  which  he  loved  to 
eommtuns. 

" ritid  hster  niiir  -  ui!  .\x>k>— 
TTi*  fnet  of  G  ca  was  la  ha  looks." 

It  was  the  "ameealD  and  thonght<hastened 
cocnt^n.tner.  ihongh  whiter  now  and  more  re- 
po^stn!  than  evet  before,  the  sarn»  lofty  bead, 
with  tbe  t'atn  sad  blanching  locks  that  bis 
frier.3s  hr:t  noted. of  late,  and  the  same  clear 
outline  ot  fcyin'ana  i*atare  that  was  seen  in  the 
typical  vest-.rre  ot  ivtL.e  resting  In  the  plain  cas- 
ket and  affording  emphasis  to  the  prayer  and 
praise  of  all  the  hearts  that  clustered  near  him. 
Peace  and  nlaetnlt/  narked  him  In  death  as  in 
life,  and  thong!.:  and  an  intuitive  fitness  was 
spoker.  In  all  his  surroundings. 

There,  In  tha*  modest  study,  rich  only  In  the 
products  or.  thoc^ht  and  memory,  were  the 
symbols  of  his  lUe  work  and  the  representa- 
tives of  the  worjd  -vide  friendship  It  bad  won 
for  him.  On:  the  simple  casket  in  which  no  lsy 
was  spsved- 

'   B^T.fB  WAI.DO  Emersox, 

-    Bora  May  25,  1803, 
«     1  Died  April  27, 1682. 

Just  be!or»  this  inscription  was  a  tlry  wreath 
of  pansier,  sud  further  down  a  chaplet  formed 
of,  Jscc.neri»>iiot  and  Souvenir  roses.  On  fU8 
long:  maate^  'nelf,  amid  memorials  of  friends 
and  old-time  visits,  were  large  clusters  of  forge t- 
zne-nots,  and  ca  an  t$cratoira,  In  n  qaalnt  em- 
bellished b"T-i  beneath  his  bust  that  recalled 
llie  Onys  of  his  mental  prime,  stood  a  radiant 
cluster  or  tlT»'ers  he  loved. 

The  company  that  filled  every  space  In  the 
etuay,  th«  passageway  ar.d  the  home  room  to 
Which  It  lea  was.  not  the  lemt  notable  feature 
"it  the  scene.  There  wore  gat  ho  1  tbe  r.-prc- 
aentatl^-s  of  three  generatio'-?.  M'  friends  who 
iiad  beenwttli  him  at  School,  m  collcpe,  at  tne 
smlonsof  th9  Tr«T>scenden'allst';  oivd  the  social 
etrcle,-  the  parishioners  who  sat  nene a'h  ills 
preaching  lit  the  Church  of  the  Second  Parish 
m  Boston,  tbe  bookmakers  .tnd  publicists  wbo 
bad  sent  forth  his  works  to  the  world, 
tne  professors  -vbo  had  blendad  tdelr  thought 
with,  his  In  the  school  of  philosophy  j  but 
nearer  than  ail  were  thoso  wbo  had  haon  allied 
to  htmby  tbo  double  claims  of  kinship  and  lit— 
jerarv  sympathy.  The  words  of  trltute  iind 
prayer  over  th»  deceased  were  fittingly  given 
byonc  who  hod  bean  with  him  more  than  sixty 
years  beftrr»»  as  a  >.lassma*.o  m  the  ol«t  Boston 
Latin  School,  the  flsr.  1'r.  Furness  ofPrrtl.'>l 
Jihla.  The  service  %'as  sl>u;>le.  inuccd — no  music 
•c  ohort,-.t;r  wns  h  ■"-:,  and  no  labnved  eulogy: 
t-it  the  nenctratir  {vwoyds  .  nd  c  :pre*?ton  of 
"vo  sueat-"  -s  ir mt  •J«f:tv-*o  the  J'sarts  o!  the 
^...;^u^.^ ■■■■!?%&>  ■  -r  -■*'.* -^i  a 
and  wim>.  fcowevei  Axalted  above  his  fellow- 
saen.   bybientf"!    v^tth,    It    M    In    the    pure 


'  art  and  ii'-.U  pv.rpose  of  good  that  final 
greatness  if  to  be  sought.  Such  he  showed  was 
Rrnerso'.i  e  lasting  claim.  The  prayer  and  Scrip 
tnre  passages  ended,  the  silent  company  arose, 
and  passing  1b  turn  to  look  at  the  form  of  him 
who  lay  in  the  casket  prepared  to  Join  the 
cc  ■  -  a  to  the  chur-h.  First  came  tbe  tall  and 
venerable  form  of  his  lite  companion,  Mrs.  Em- 
erson, wbosi  pallid  face  told  on lr  too  plainly 
the  unspeakable  sense  of  loss-  that  was  felt 
within,  and  after  her  came  tbe  nearest  rela- 
tives and  loved  .  ones  of  the  deceased. 
The  body  was  reverently  borne  from  the 
house  ana  placed  in  tbe  waiting  hearse 
oy  the  pall-bearers,  who  were  Messrs.  Charles 
Emerson,  Haven  Emerson,  William  Forbes.  J. 
K.  Cabot,  J.  B.  Thayer,  Dr.  Emerson,  Ralph 
Forbes  and  William  Thayer.  As  they  passed 
the  venerable  men  who  bad  come  to  pay  their 
last  tribute  stood  wltb  uncovered  heads  on 
either  side  of  the  walk.  The  picture  was  such  as 
Is  rarely  s?en.  The  solemn  procession  then 
moved  to  tbe  church,  the  Immediate  relatives 
and  most  intimate  friends  of  the  deceased  oc- 
cupying carriages  immediately  following  the 
besrse,  and  several  hundred  ladles  and  gentle- 
men proceeding  on  foot  In  pairs.  Among  those 
wbo  participated  In  the  obsequies  were  his 
three  surviving  children,  Dr.  Emerson,  Miss  El- 
len Emerson  and  Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Forbes  and  her  six 
children ;  also  Di.  Olivet  Wendell  Holmes, 
George  William  Curtis,  Kev.  Dr.  Hartol,  Col.  T. 
W.  Hlgslnson,  JuUnn  Hawthorne,  Frank  B.  San- 
born. Prof.  James  P.  Thayer,  President  tllot  of 
Harvard,  Prof.  Harris,  Mrs.  James  T.  Fields, 
Mrs.  John  A.  Andrew  and  daughter,  W.  W. 
FWtchard  ot  New  York,  Prof.  0.  E.  Norton, 
Elizabeth  Peabody,  Dr.  Le  Haron  Eussell,  Dr. 
Charles  Putnam,  Dr.  James  Putnam,  Kov.  Mr. 
Dahl.  Henry  James,  Samuel  Bradford,  Mrs.  O. 
R.  Russell,  Mrs.  Agas3lz,  Judge  Lowell  and  wife, 
Mr.  snd  Mrs,  H.  C  Hlrclnson,  George  Hlgglr.- 
•on,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Parknian  Blake,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  D.  G.  Hasklns,  Mr.  and  Mrs, 
McLean  Hey  ward,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frank 
Cobb,  Divtd  French,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ben- 
nett Nash,  Thomas  C.  Appleton,  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  f^eorcre  Faulkner  Miss  ranlkner,  Col.  H. 
8.  Russell  and  family,  J.  Maicom  Forbes  and 
family,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  Eliot  Cabot,  Mrs.  Storer 
and  daughter,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Q.  A.  Shaw.  Mrs. 
Tappan,  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Hedge,  Prof,  Ooodwln, 
51r.  and  ^,r8-  Huscy  Goodwin,  Prof.  Norton,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  :■<  orton,  Rev.  u.  W.  Cook,  Dr.  Ai  .<  <  i 
Pev.  JJ.  P.  Foisoro,  Rev.  Dr.  Briggs,  1  ;  >i.  '( 
Bterry  Hunt,  Henry  James,  Jr.,  EJ»»bith 
Stuart  Phelps,  Miss  Abby  \V.  M"y,  Capt. 
Main.  Ai>rlt)ton,  Senator  Qerry.  Gecrge 
Prtnam,  Thomas  G.  Appleton,  Miss  Alicw 
Longrollutv,  Darwin  E.  Ware,  Solomon  Lincoln, 
Col.  KobortG.  Ingersoll,  Judge  Henry  F-  Frencn. 
Jsrs-  Henry  Whitman,  Mrs.  Susan  Coolldge  of 
Newport,  Oen.  N.  P.  Banks^ R«v.  Dr.  Chandier 
Bobbin,  Ml°s  Lcnlse  M.  Alcott.  MIrs  Sarah  O. 
Jeurett,  Charles  Emery.  Col.  J.  B.  Moore,  Miss 
Ann    Whitney,   Nathaniel-  Henderson,    w.    W, 

n  ii  rur  i  n  iiirl  it  ifwiin  illin 
j«tttis  r.  H-wwsj,  rtmgmrwmmmmKmmm 

u.c  pui  n«her»  repiestnted  were  Messrs.  Hough- 
ton, Miffiin,  S"ii!!,,  A.  Williams,  J.tt.  Cnpples 
Mid  Mr.  J  S.  Clirk.  The  Second  Church,  Bos- 
ton,  n  wi  li  Mr.  Emerson  once  officiated,  was 
•p-  -^  _  .   roinniUtce  consisting  of  the 

I  ,tor,  Ecv.  1.  \.  liorcou.  ex-(iov.  Talbot,  F.  W, 
Lln.:u!n  S.  !  iTf-i-v,  G.  H.  Hagar.  The  Social 
C'.rc'e  *  htoli  i"  c  deceased  was  the  oldest 
nv  ■  -  '  living  ji  npdin  1842,  wasrepresen1e<l 
bj  Roi  ■  it  Barrett,  K  X.  Elce,  H.  N.  Grout,  fiam- 
ut-i  staples,  E.  C.  Damon,  E.  R.  Hoar,  Lorenzo 
Eaton,  H.  J.  Walcot,  G.  P.  Howe,  J.  F.  Barrett, 
G  ".  llevc,  -'allies  B.  Wood,  H.  J.  Hosmex.  J.  B. 
K  yes  5.  I.  >milh,  H.  F.  Smith.  N.  B.  Howe, 
Geo.  ifeywood, 

THE  CHURCH  SERVICE. 

As  ps  rlj  is  t\To  o'clock  a  few  people  were  an 
•>  c  steps  rf  the  church  oi  the  Ilrst  Parish 
awaiting  the  opening  of  Its  doors,  and  In  the 
jpeantt-.ne  watcuicg  those  who  were  favored 
with  «no  privilege  of  attending  the  exercise;  at 
the  Mouse,  many  ot  whom  passed  the -church  on 
their  wny  lo  the  home  of  tbe  family  In  whose 

I I  nrnlng  thousands  were  parUclpatiDg.  Rap- 
idly these  waiter'  upon  time  Increased  In  num- 
bers, accessions  of  those  who  were  driven  upor 
of  tho««  who  walked  continually  oelng  received. 
At  2a:  tbe  doors  cf  the  edifice  were  swung  open 
to-adnilt  nearly''.;  not  quite  as  many  as  there 
wera  seats  t!:at  were  not  reserved.  A  large 
roTps  of  ushers,  underthedlrectlon  of  Mr.  Samuel 
Hoar,  saw  that  all  that  could  possibly  oe  done 
to  injure  comfort  was  done,  but  in  spite  of  their 
tireless  efforts  later  on  the  crush  was  some 
thing  from  which  one  might  well  be  thankful 
toliavebe^n  delivered.  This  overplus  of  sym- 
pathizers did  not  occur  until  the  arrival  of  the 
special  train  from  Boston.  Tbe  people  it 
Drought  thronged  aisle  and  passage,  until  ad- 
mission for  one  more  was  an  Impossibility. 
Buttho  co2ET>»){atloa  was  as  orderly  as  it  was 


larce.  each  of  those  composing  It  snaring  In  the 
solemnity  of  the  event  by  which  they  bad  been 
assembled.  'While*  the  congregation  was  of  Its 
original  magnitude  Mr.  T.  XFt  Burette,  organist 
ol  the  church,  played  softly  "Chaplu's  Funeral 
March,"  repeating  again  and  again  its  Cream-. 
harmonies.  At  length  tne  clergymen  who  ha<i 
been  at  the  house  came  in— an  indication  ilia', 
the  public  services  were  about  to  be  com- 
menced. The  organ  tones  were  changed  to  those 
of  Pleyel's  hymn,  which  was  siren  at  the  re- 
quest of  the  family,  and  to  these  solemn  notes 
the  honored  dead  was  borne  In  and  placed  at 
tne  foot  or  the  altar  at  which  so  often  is  lite  he 
had  worshiped.  After  the  subdued  bustle  of 
the  entrance  of  the  relatives  and  Intimate 
friends  had  subsided,  the  lid  of  the  casket  was 
turned  back,  exposing  to  view  the  Intel  lectnal 
face,  reposing  amid  folds  on  folds  of  white, 
and  the  hands  that  once  translated  Into  words 
the  thoughts  of  the  busy  brain,  now  so  quiet, 
calmly  folded  across  a  white  robed  breast  in 
which  the'heart  throbs  bad  forever  ceased. 

Arwund  and  above  the  simple  receptacle  for 
the  dead  were  tasteful  decorations.  The  pulpli 
was  covered  with  pine  boughs,  In  which  were 
purple  pansles  and  call*  lilies.  "In  the  centre, 
was  a  harp  of  jonquils,  the  gift  of  Miss  Aicott, 
and  on  the  right,  occupying  a  pedestal,  was  a 
floral  book  from  the  scholars  and  teachers  of 
the  Emerson  School.  Its  final  page,  of  white 
carnations  and  tuberoses,  bore  the  word 
"finis"  In  blue-  violets;  its  cover  was  of  dark 

Bansies,  a  dash  of  golden  yellow  here  and  there 
gliting  up  the  purple  expanse.  On  either  band 
were  clusters  of  geranium  flowers,  with  a  few 
roses  and  lilies.  Unostentatious,  yet  sweet  and 
pungent,  were  the  .surroundings  of  Emerson's 
last  resting  place,  ere  hi*  body  reached  its  final 
bourn-. 

In  tbe  mlrlst  of  a  silence  that  was  oppressive 
Hon.  E.  R.  Hoar  stepped  to  the  foot  of  the  cav 
ket  and  began  the  services.  As  he  spoke  he 
made  long  pauses  in  his  words,  looking,  as  he 
did  so,  at  the  face  of  his  friend,  each  glance  at 
mat  immobile  countenance,  adding  to  tbe  in- 
tense cf  the  tremor  that  ran  all  through  his 
Utteran<  i»s. 

Boat.  E.  K.  Hear 
Said  The  beauty  of  Israel  Is  fallen  from  i's 
high  plnoe.  Mr.  Emerson  has  died,  aud  we,  his 
friends  i»nd  neighbor*  and  townsmen,  with  tbl* 
sorrowing  company,  have  turned  asidolle  pro 
cession  from  Ills  home  to  bis  grave  to  th's  fem- 
ple  of  his  f  ■■■  thers  that  we  may  here  unite  la  our 
parting  tribute  of  reverence  and  love.  There  is 
nothing  to  mourn  for  him;  that  brave  and  man- 
ly life  was  rounded  out  to  the  full  length  of 
days.  That  dying  pillow  was  softened  by  the 
sweetest  domestic  affection,  and  as  he  lay  rtotvn 
to  the  sleep  which  the  Lord  giveth  His  beloved 
his  face  was -as  the  face  of  a  child' and  his 
sinl'e  seemed  to  give  a  glimpse  of  the 
opening  boavens.  Wnerever  the  English  lan- 
guage is  spoken  throughout  tne  world  Bh 'name 
Is  established  and  secured.  From  bcyor.rt  the 
sea  and  throughout  this  great  land  will  come 
Innumerable  voices  of  sorrow  for  this  great  pub- 
lic loss.  But  we,  his  neighbors  and  townsm<-n, 
feel  that  he  was  oars.  lie  was  descended  from 
the  founders  of  the  town:  he  chose  our  village 
as  the  p!&t:e  In  wfctoh;  !rB"Hfe-lo«g  work  was  to 
be  done;  It  was- to  our  fields  and  orchards  that 
his  presence  gave  such  value;  it  was  In  onr 
streets  in  wnich  children  looked  up  to  him  with 
love  and  the  elders  with  reverence.  He  was  our 
ornament  and  pride. 

He  t«  gone-Ms  dose:  he  tbe  morefortunate !    Yea,  he  hath 

Ontshedl 
For  Mm  there  It  ca  longer  arr  future. 
His  lite  is  bright— bright  wttbont  «oot  tt  was 
hrta  cannot  cease  to  'oe.    No  omicons  hour 
Enockt  at  tus  door  with  rjilucp  of  mishap* 
vir  o3  Is  »ie,  a  bov*  -leeirc  and  fear  j 
No  more  subroltfta  in  the  ehiinge  xaC  chase*. 
The  blcom  !s'vsnl*d«<  froui  Sty  Il>t 
For  o:  h»  stood  US.Vn.elar*  or:  youth; 
Transfrnnea  :'or  me  Uie  rial  to a'drrsr.i 
Clothing  the  palpable  and  frmHIar 
Willi  golden  exhalations  of  tho  dan  a. 
whatever  fortunes  wait  mr  iiuum  toil*. 
The  keajttftit  is  vanbhed  and  returns  not. 

That  le'tv  brow,  the  home  of  all  wis*  thoughts 
and  high  aerations—  Shose  lip*  of  eloquent  mn/ 
sic— that  great  sou!  which,  trusting  in  Goa.  r.ov^i 
lost  Its  hope  ot  immortally— that  gre-H  h.-  rt 
to  which  everything  was  welcome  that  he- 
longed  toman— »!»».» isinrosDtMn  natu'-'-,  lovip* 
and  tender  and  generous,  having,  no  repulsion 
orscoru  for  anything  but  meanness  and  base- 
ness—onr  friend,  brother,  fatter,  lover,  teacher, 
inspirer,  guide  Is  gone.  Is  there  no  more  that 
we  can  do  now  than  to  give  thee  our  hall  and 
farewell  ? 

A  sweet,  attractive  kind  of  grace, 
_A  full  SMuroitcegtv-o  by  looks. 
Continual  comfort  ui  a  face,. 

The  lineament*  of  Gospel  Book*! 
Itrow  tnat  coantenance  cannot  lie 
Wboee  thoughts  are  legible  tn  tbe  eya 


99 

W««  ever  eye  did  nee  that  foes. 

Was  ever  ear  did  bear  that  tongue, 
Wag  ever  mint!  did  mind  his  grace. 

That  erer  thought  the  travel  long  f 
But  -yea  anil  ears  and  evsry  thou.; lit 
Were  wtrh  bis  tweet  perfections  sought. 

There  was  one  hymn  ot  .Dr.  Watts  that  Mr. 
Emerson  especially  liked,  and  which  -it  seems 
proper  should  be  read  at  his  funeral: 

Lord,  when  I  Quit  this  earthly  stare, 

Whrierhnlt  '  fly  DM  to Thj breast" 
For  I  h.ive  soneht  no  otter  home. 

For  I  bave  le.irnc-d  a  >  other  rest. 
I  rannot  hve  corrtenttMhere, 

Without  some  gLinpatsof  Thy  face:  - 
And  Heaven  wttnoatThy  presence  there 

W  n'.id  !  >e  a  'lait  an.t  tiresome  place. 
My  God!     And  eantckemblecHiM 

JT>.it  .  ><-es  lhi>e  wttir'a  florae  so  high. 
Tier-      Uom  Thy tace-rxilsd 

Without  the  pity  of  Thy  eye  • 

Impossible,    For  Trdne  own  hands 
Have  i?d  m«-  heart  so  fasi  :o  Tnes 

And  m  Thy  Hook  tin  prorc  -    stands 
Tost  wtera  Thou  an  Tay  rrienits  mu.»t  be. 
The  congregation  are  In \  ited  lo  unite  in  sing- 
ing Boscoe's  hymn  commencing 

"  Thy  wifi  be  done,  I  ruil  not  fear 
Ibe  fate  ptoviiled  by  Ihy  love." 

The  Swrlitfarc  Selection*. 
Bet".  Tn.  Turness  of  Philadelphia  read  these 
passiiges of  Holy  VFtiti-  "Blessed  an;  the  r>  -or 
in  spirit:  for  theirs  la  the  kingdom  cf  Heaven. 
l>h'.-— »r  arethriyth.it  jnourn:for  thov  shili  ho 
comforted.     Blessed    are  the   meak:'for   they 
rhall  inherit  the  cattli.    Klessed  are  they  vri.1 
hunger  anJ  thirst aftei  rlghteousno^s:  for  t'  ejr 
sh.il]    be  filled.    t;ie.s=?  :  ai'e  the  merciful'  I    . 
they  shall  obtain  mercy.    Blc^-ed  a;,    •' .  j   ire 
In  heart:  for  they  shiUl  see  GorL    Blessed  »>•* 
tn"  i  i    cemakcrs:  Tor  th^;-  ?ftall  I  •  call  ••! 
cliiloren     ot    God."       "Then     said      M»tiii 
i"    to     .fesn=.      Lord,     if     tiio-.t     ha   st      beei 
my    :■> ..tt.  r     '<  ■■       •  :'     ■•  -■  '         But    . 
::  ow  t'.i.'it  ;v?ii  itstsaevT-t  thou  will  .isi 

.,  t    ...    i.  ■  ,   v.  .  ■  nvr.     Jesus  salt!    it.it-.i 

i.  i  Thy  fcv.  l.c"  iiai  i ise .-isram.  Maith  »-uth 
unto  Him:  I  '■•  .<-  th  it  he  shall  rija  ':.:.>•'  i- 
tiie  Tesurrcction  at  the  li»st  day.  Jesus  s'a'.ta 
mto  ho:  I  <rm  the^osnrrcction  arid  the  Jute;  ha 
'....it  beilaveluinine,  tiungh  he  wtre^lea.' w 
shall  he  lk"  nnA^.i.r  , .  ..  -~-  I'TaUiaaili  Imi— "- 
•an.  ra  asswskail^asssM  M*JES££tlH 
BIN',1"  ■■  W»ar-»jHfasf,agW'fBoujrhiavlhln?  in. 
CTerUble  wiiu  yo«  ..->  !  On 3  shot  hi  val-r  the 
ilond':  I  verily  inoaaht  erfj  .-:yscif  that  1 1>  ■:•  -'.t 
to  to  Jg  mfihy  ihincrs  <"<.>ntr..iy  *"  Hie  name  .: 
Jeans  of  Kuiar  tn.  which ..  things  I  fum- 
"^  Jerusalem,  and  many  of  ttte-salnts  dhi  ; 
shu'.  *  p  In  prison,  having  reetVcd  autboxiiy 
i-oiii  tiv-^i.irf  priests:  r.na  wneo  tney  were  pnt 
10  tie  th.  I  .■»  ii£  my  vol'v;  r.  .r.lnst  th  'm.  And  I 
jr.nlihcrt  t.x  1  ot!  In  every  sytiat;i'£i'4,  jci-i 
c  irjoi  :  :^.'  t.!it;ii  t^  bln-i  her.ie;  Vnd  b-3lci  e: - 
ceetiicgry  iu;  a  a»r,U;s:  them.  1  perrcsutexi  ilusn- 
even  u:tto  strange  cities.  WJ.erenjKjn^as  I  se:  • 
tip  to  iv.i'i.  i«'-;s  with  nurhority  and  coiitmlseic; 
frora  the  ehiei  priests.  ;it  mh'.day,  O  Klr.p',  I  an 
:<\  in-  way  r.  lit'.tt  iron  iie-aven,-- above  ite 
l,-i;intr,f  of  th.  rti)-.,  ehi'.rjig  rcnnd  atx  it 
tr>f  tijiJ  I'-  .  wMch"  i"Mirii  ;."Cil  «'lth  itir>.  .- 
when  we  wcpq-iH  fall  •'■  10  ti*e  «ir  , 
t  Uvard  a  voici.  ^n\;\  .,  m  ;,>  on.  m.  lsiyinc  > 
t-V.  Hebrew  :oi;ii  to,  P?.t!i,  h.uil.  "vl-'v  petseour^S 
•i  :uJ'i  '.'  ■*^5»y~'  i  f^"r !  ;ee  t.*  ...'':  f;n in  t  " 
'!•:.-.    _A:t>i  .  jf^jj    v.,      a«  Thl, 

'for  one  light  a  ution.  w.ucl 
utont,  worketh  f.  v  us  a  !:ir  mure  rt"  --Mutf  .>n<i 
ctrn.al  wrtght  01  glory;  while  we  look  nut  ■'.'. 
the  v.hings  Wi'eh  nra  seen  bin  ct  tho 
things  wii"li  arr  not  Seen:  fcr  the  things  whleh 
are  seen  ;ire  ter.-.pnrai;  but  the  things  which  are 
not  seen  are  eternal."  '•  Death  Is  swallowed  Ui' 
In  victory,  o  death  where  Is  tliy  stir.?!  O  grave. 
where  la  thy  victory  I"  "Thanks  be  to  God 
which  glveth  as  the  victory  throuch  onr  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Therefore  be  ye  steadfast,  on- 
movable;  always  abounding  In  the  worEs  of  the 
J^ord,  forasmuch  as  ye  know  that  your  labor  is 
not  in  vain  in  the  Lord."  Rev.  James  Freeman 
Clarke,  l>.  D.,  followed  wltn  the  eulogy. 

Rev.  tlainc*  Freemaa  Clarke's  Knt«s*.v. 
This  assembly  has  come  logelhex  not  only  to 
testify  Its  resuect  for  one  of  the  jjreatert  think 
ers  and  writers  ol  our  time,  but  also  it  L?  drawn 
to  this  place  by  gratitude  for  the  strength,  help, 
inspiration  which  has  been  given  to  us  through 
the  mediation  of  this  noble  soul.  It  Is  not  for 
me.  It  is  not  for  this  hour,  to  say  what  ought  ro 
be  said  of  the  genius  trhlch  has  kindled  tue  fires 
of  thought  in  two  continents.  The  r>re«ei't  mo- 
ments belong  to  reverentlnl  love.  We  thank 
t>od  here  tor  the  influences  which  have  made  us 
all  better.  The  voire  now  hushed  never  spoke 
hnt  to  lift  us  to  a  higher  plane  of  generous  sen- 
timent. Tha  hand  now  still  never  wrote  except 
to  take  us  o-.-.t  of  "  our  dreary  routnie  of  sense, 
woridllness  aud  sin  "  into  communion  with  what- 


:r.-- .;.  ;      ;      .• 

El.  is  but  tor  w.  i 


ever  is  noblest,  purest,  highest.  By  the  side  of 
this  revered  torm  we  thank  God  that  through 
ail  these  years  we  have  been  made  better  by  his 
voids  and  his  life.  He  has  been  a  preacher  of 
righteousness  to  this  and  other  lands.  When  he 
left  the  pulpit,  he  said,  in  his  farewell  sermon, 
that  he  did  not  relinquish  hi*  profession— 
that  he  hoped  whatever  was  his  work,  to 
be  still  a  teacher  ot  God's  truth.  How  well  has 
he  kept  that  promise!  No  one  can  say,  till  the 
day  or  judgment  declares  it,  how  large  a  part 
of  the  genuine  faith  in  the  things  not  seen  but 
eternal  has  come  to  us  from  the  depths  of  his 
spiritual  insight.  He  was  one  of  God's  seers, 
and  he  was  sent  to  us  at  a  time  like  the  one  of 
which  It  is  written,  "  The  Word  of  tbe  Lord  was 
precious  in  those  days;  there  was  no 
open  vision."  Men  lived  by  past  Inspira- 
tions, with  no  faltb  In  the  possibility 
of  any  new  revelation  to  the  soul  of  the 
divine  will.  No  doubt  they  did  well  to  resort  to 
the  words  of  ancient  prophets  until  the  dav 
should  dawn  and  the  day  star  arise  in  their 
own  hearts.  That  day  dawned  anew  when  the 
sight  of  the  divine  truth  kindled  a'  light  In  the 
solemn  eyes  of  Channinz  and  created  a  new 
power  which  spoke  from  the  lips  or  Emerson. 
Vet  the  young  and  hopeful  listened  with  jov 
to  this  morning  song— they  looked  gladly 
to  this  auroral  light.  When  tne  little  book 
"  Nature  "  was  published  it  seemed  to  some  of 
us  a  new  revelation.  Mr.  Emerson  then  said 
what  has  been  the  text  ot  bis  life,  "  Let  the 
single  man  plant  himself  on  his  Instincts,  and 
the  great  world  will  come  round  to  him."  He 
did  not  reply  to  his  critics.  He  went  on  his  way 
—and  to-day  we  see  that  the  world  has  come 
rcund  .uhlm.  He  is  the  preacher  of  spiritual 
truth  to  our  age.  We  understand  through  him 
what  Jesus  meant  when  he  said,  h  You  must  eat 
m\  flesh  and  tlrink  my  blood."  Our  souls  have 
hfcen  fed  by  his  life.  We  bave  been  nourished 
by  hi*  character  moT9  than  by  bis  words.  He 
has  been  bread  and  wine  to  us— the  bread  of 
strength,  the  wine  of  Joy. 

The  >-aying  ol  the  liturgy  is  true  and  wise, 
that  "in  the  midst  ot  life  we  are  in  death."  But 
It  is  still  more  true  that  "in  the  midst  of  death 
we  are  in  life."  Do  we  ever  believe  so  much  in 
immortality  as  when  we  look  oh  such  a  dear 
and  noule  lace,  now  so  still,  which  a  few  hours 
ago  was  radiant  with  thought  and  love  t>  "He 
Is  not  here;  he  Is  risen."  That  power  which  we 
knew— that  soaring  Intelligence,  that  soul  o' 
fire,  that  ever  advancing  spirit— "'•ne  cannot 
have  been  suddenly  annihilated  with  the  decay 
of  these  earthly  organs.  It  has  left  its  darkened 
dust  behind.  It  has  outsoared  the  shadow  of 
our  night,  God  does  not  trifle  with  his  crea- 
tures by  bringing  to  nothing  the  ripe  frultof  th'e 
ag<-s.  by  the  lesion  6f  a  cerebral  eeli,  or  some 
bodily  tissue.  Life  does  not  die,  but  matter  dies 
of!  lioui  it.  The  highest  energy  we  know, 
the  soul  ot  man,  the  unit  In  which 
meet  Intel  iigenee,  imagination,  memory, 
hope,  lovo,  -purpose,  insight— thb  agent 
of  lmmense,,resource  and  boundless  power— 
this  has  not  been  snbdaed  by  its  Instrument, 
When  we  think  of  such  an  one  as  be,  we  can 
Only  think  of  life,  never  of  death.    * 

Such  was  his  own  faith,  as  expressed  In  his 
paper  on  Immortality.  But  he  himself  was  the 
best  argument  for  Immortality.  Like  the 
greatest  thinkers,  he  did  not  rely  on  logical 
proof,  but  on  tbe  higher  evidence  of  universal 
tnstincts— the  vast  streams  of  belief  which  flow 
through  human  thought  like  currents  In  tbe 
ocean— Ui  cse-shore less  rivers  whleh  forever  roll 
along  their  paths  in  the  Athuitle  and  Pacific— 
not  restrained  by  banks,  but  guided  by  the  revo- 
lutions ot  the  globe,  and  the  attractions  of  tbe 
sun. 

Mr.  Emerson  stated  sneh  Indications  of  Im- 
mortality as  these:  That  all  great  natures  love 
stability  and  permanence.  "Everything  here," 
be  says,  "  is  prospective. •*  "The  mind  delights 
In  immense  time."  *  Wa  son  not  interested  in 
anything  which  ends."  "All  I  have  seen 
teaches  me  to  trust  the  Creator  for  what  1  bave 
not  seen."  "All  tbe  ways  of  virtuous  living 
lead  upwards  and  not  downwards." 

In  hU  "Threnody"  be  shows  as  bow  the  Deep 
Heart  said  to  him 

j£W>i«Q  tire  scuttxetoraii  are  foil 
^Wlth  Thought's  poriloos,  whirling  cool; 
wben  frail  Nature  caa  be  more 
Tbeo  the  spirit  strike*  the  hour;  .- 
M  r  servant  Death,  witb  tolvlag  rite 
l"ours  Unite  into  infinite." 

There  «re  few  who  remain  who  remember  the 
beginnings  of  thts-long  progress.  The  first  time 
I  saw  him  I  went  with  Margaret  Fuller  to  hear 
hlui  preach  in  the  church  on  Hanover  street. 
>elther  of  ns  then  knew  him.  We  sat  In  the 
galler--,  and  felt  that  a  new  Influence,  sweet 
and  strong,  had  come.  Then  I  recall  his  kind- 
ness, artrr  I  came  to  have  his  acquaintance,  an: I 
how  he  rrave  me  to  print  in  a  Western  magazin' 


tour  oC  his  early  poems— -the  first  ever  printed. 
Jisxt  I  thin!:  of  the  group  which,  always 
collected  nt  his  lectures,  ever  the  same  persom. 
those  who  came  to  he  fed,  and  never  went  awa- 
hungry.  After  that  were  the  dp.ys  c£  the  Tran3 
condeutal  Clnb,  which  we  called  the  "  Llkt 
•Stalled "— I    (appose  heeanse  no  two  of    us 

•  Wufiht  alike.  One  summer  afternoon  we  came 
*WConcord  and  had  one  meeting  in  his  par- 
i*r.  There  waa  George  Ripley,  admirable 
talker,  most  genial  01  men,  ahd  Orestes  A. 
Brownson.  full  of  Intelligence,  courage  and  in- 
dustry, who  soon  went  over  Into  the  Kon.an 
Catholic-  Church,  and  James  Walker,  of  whom 
Mr.  Emerson  once  said  to  me,  "  I  have  come  to 
Boston  to  hear  Dr.  Walker  thunder  this  even 
lag,"  Theodore  Parker  and  many  others.    ways 

of  enthusiasm  and  youthful  hope,  when  the 
world  seemed  so  new  aud  fair,  life  so  precious, 
when  new  rtr.  ek.Cons  were  close  at  band  as  we 
thongbt,  and  dome  new  Pinto  or  ohakupeare 
was  about  to  appear.  TVo  dwelt  at  ^  hat  ItalleoJi 
calls  ••  the  ciear  >-hnrm  of  life's  illusive  dream/' 
r:nct  the  man  who  had  the  largest  hore  of  ail, 
■•I  joined  i  ith  tlio  keenest  eye  to  detect  evc.-y 
fallacy. v  'r  ;Rniph  Waldo  Emerson.  Vetoolcedt  • 
him  nx  ou;  piaster.  And  now  '/w  irorld  caPs 
him  its  n  .  5ter— In  lnslebt,  jtidi"inent,  charm  e: 
spec  u  ii.. >lilng  courage,  endless  a*ylratior„ 
Are  ca.  t;  .'.-j  as  Goethe  cf  Schiller,  ''la.  fir 
went'  wav  -  er  os.T.ud  fcr  all  these  yer.n  * 
tii.ii,  ijk1  e'  He  ha-i  £one  fat  erojgh  fur  ti>  '•» 
-:ir!h..  IV:  .  're  Is  t-ikc-r.  tft.it  ;ree*  shall 
nolyrcwr.pt  Heaven.'  lits  work,  like  tb«H  -; 
tbs  apostle  ".  .!■<  accorarUsbed  by  the  q  ;  int  i> 
of  soul  that  w&s  in  Liu — not  by  mere  power 
of  intellect-  but,  "by  puren^*«.  by  Ki.owlertire, 
by  lonjr  su.Tetrhgj  l«y  kindness,  by  the  Holt 
Spirit,  by  1c  e  iMitelgaei.'.  by  the  word  of  trot;: 
t>y  'he  au  or  ot  rightecisncss  on  Uio  light 
hand  <%r.<t .  '  e.  ietV' 
tetns.  u  n.  pouderbts  wonls- 

wmtfiai  ■■  nt  iBBpBpi 

X-oYri-'St  n»rm  V.^nrlli  i^Ur-x^d.  -    . 
Fri«*r«  ol  «r> Int s  that  ,r]y  burned— 
K.irliiJ—  H'Afff  it  txerUwt,   " 
/>■  li-ui  /tnv.  it  ptrw^wt I 
£>«><  afedaf.hevl'i  lomt  rrmtrin; 
ii'o"  « lmmllmttl  'htcooat*. 

Bca*»  aj>d  fnant  go  to  fjiwmi . 
Uni-in  '-..li.  in  uodheac  louu..." 

1\*   *>f-ur»r. 

Be*  Glwfavnf  K.  I!rc  ,vn  of  BrotkTi:  a  c  '  •  : 
tiilu  lT.-txTJi-t  o  '.<xl?  most  holy  an^  mc,  w»r  '■• 
fill,  I'lOvkrho  art  thesrtvtrnf  on.  lie  nr.  '  w'io 
n. «!:.-, ■'•^a-rtuj, I  ol  dial1;  B  n»«tv  nrrr  ol  Tny 
w.::,  v  U<  ■■  ■■■<-  i-elp  ts,  Thy  cnildv  n,  when  'i'njr 
Ceciet  tr.n  •=.  from  us  the  <2eave;,t  of  our  treas- 
ures, .'it.  lite  tiiat  has  grown  to  U;  a  part  of  onx 
be':  ,,.../  *vui  Thou  .ild  us*.©  snv,  "Jilessedbe 
the  m-me  of  the  Lord  r:fio  do~lh  all  things 
we.  /"'  Hf«  we  humble  our  spirits  be'ere  Thee, 
ccr."e-*!jn.  :b.  •-  In  the  presence  ot  Thine  lu- 
fi.'i.e  wjf  dwm,  by  which  atl  things  have 
he«..i  mst'j  mid  are  sustained,  'iur  sorrow 
sncuid  he.  dsmb,  acknowiedglns  t:.«i  It 
Is  not  for  ns7t^^»  creature*  of  n  day.  u  enter 
too  .luug.i.ent  wit*  Thi ue  Almighty  wi,  .  i:ut 
Taou.  Uo  I,  hast  made  'ibysulf  kuow;,  ur...  us  on 
a  loving  f:. titer,  and  to  Thy  utTty  rV  >vc  i!";.».»; 
for  comf .ti  and  help  when  l«i«  » Utor?  ot  sor;  j .. 
come  in  u>>on  our  souls.  Help  u+.  we  tray  I  bee, 
to  ur.  r.p  our  heart*  u»  Ti  ec  ti .^t  vre  may  be 
faithful  to  *<1  we  can  see  and  know  of  Thy 
■■■:  iniru,  and  may  trust  with  nnwaveriug  con- 
.•a.cy  when  Thy  onroose  la  hidden  from  our 
Eigut  v.  e  do  thank  Thee  ont  of  an  Infinite 
enit  iiude  tar  the  hope  of  endlefsllfe  whieh  Tbou 

19s*  set  -before  us— the  hope  of  a  wona  where 
■  ■■•shri'  bo  tree  from  the  losses  and  psdns  ibaS. 
bMTden  our  spirits  here,  and  where  we  shall  re- 
join the  loved  ones  who  have  pnsseo  ont  ot  our 
sight  iu  the  valley  of  the  shadow  of  death.  The 
mjarer  .nd  dearer  the  ties  that  have  knit  our 
souls  to  theirs,  the  purer  their  lives,  the  mora 
blessed  their  presence  has  beeu  to  us,  the  more 
do  we  th.-.nlc  Thee  th*  t,  through  Christ  Jesus, 
our  eyes  have  been  turned  toward  the  new 
heaven  and  the  new  earth  that  are  to  be  the 
home  of  the  soul,  aud  the  aooro  earnestly  do  we 
rray  tu  Thee  for  Increased  eonildence  in  the 
reality  of  that  spiritual  •* house  of  lnajiyman- 
*lo:;s,"  In -which  the  Master  has  prepared  a 
place  for  na.  We  tbank  Thee,  O  God.  for  il!  the 
grace  and  peace  and  team y  of  the  noble  life 
that  Is  now  ended.  Thou,  O  feort,  art  the  great 
life  of  which  our  human  lives  are  feeble  hcagcis 
and  reflection,  ana  to  Vhee  oar  thatlks  are 
due  for  the  kindliness,  the  patience,  the 
wisdom,  the  love,  above  ail,  for  the  nameless 
charm  of  person  and  of  spirit,  sneu  **  those- 
whlcn  are  treasured  Sn  the  enteful  memory  of 
the  i  mates  of  the  household  tu  which  he  be- 
longrl,  of  the  commnnliy  in  which  be  lived,  oX 
t'»e  1  rieT.ds  near  ahd  dear  throughout  the  world- 
V  a,  O  God,  amid  the  scenes  which  were  t» 
hi  .-festhe  workshop  of  bis  renins;  here,  where 

*  ev»H  tortl-has   forged  noble   utterances  ot 


100 

infill  to  in  the  guide  rud  the  strength  of  men 
in  all  parts  i.i  the  earth;  where  a  elear- 
sceins  and  br^ve  heait  iias  held  communion 
wltl>  Thee  and  received  from  Thee  mes- 
sages oi  sacred  and  lofty  Impart;  here 
do  we  thank  Thee  for  Urn  work  he 
h3!  Jcne  for  truth  and  righteousness  by 
which  the  life  ol  all  lnanklii.i  has  oeen  ctv- 
laiced  and  this  whole  people  has  been  ennobled. 
tTe  tbank  Thee  for  the  words  of  wisdom  which 
rccr  i  ihelr  way  from  his  heart  Into  a  multitude 
or  i-  -arts  and  homes.  We  axe  crktefnl  that  w* 
have  been  privileged  to  know  tace  to  iace  and 
>n  'fca  Sntercourse  of  daily  life* spirit  so  radi- 
ant with  the  beauty  of  huLneas.  O  God,  he  wik> 
has  gone  from  ns  wn«  a  wise  teacher  of  Thy 
tr-.tii  and  cf  Thy  laws.  His  life  was  a  fresh  revela- 
tion of  the  graces  and  virtues  which  shone  nnio 
tbw' world  tbrcusrh  Jesus  i.Uria:,  aau  we  t.i<tus 
TUy  love  and  Tny  goodness  which  garnus  this  t&- 
5irnc»T  and  friend  to  make  our  pathway  In  life 
inoM  peaceful  and  more  sore.  And  now  that 
the  work  of  his  bands  is  finished ;  since  our 
bands  can  no  more  minister  to  bis  c  rrlort  and 
i  is  needs,  tiere  we  eommlt-  to  Thine  infinite  love 
tie  spirit  which  Thoo  {r>ivest  without  rerlrJnc 
andtrustlag  to  reclaim  whnt  we  have  learned  .o 
c*l:  onr  own  when  Thot:  doat  call  na,  too,  to  tbf 
'tome  which  'luou  hast  prepared  for  tlie  seal. 
■«  e  pray  for  Thy  hJessin;  anon  the"booper."ld  la 
whlcli  this  life  has  now  been  quenched,  and  we 
ash  ihat  ino  light  of  Tny  spirit  may  make  g  -*1 
ih^-  >o->s  which  has  befallen  •samauy  sensitive :  .id 
loving  hearts.  OGod,  to  the  widowed  wiio,  la"  •> 
'atheriesa  children,  to  th-;  Ultimate  frlen.ti, 
whether  dl--tant  or  near  JaLs  due  to  ;.n  our 
nea ■''  let  that  spirit,  bring  that- tan"  screuc 
'on  ;iit  and  trust  wh'.ch beautlfleu  U>c  ro'^i^ 
r_  :  iaL  ha-  aone  f.om  aa,  Koratve  ns,  O  L^rd, 
•.  t  ;".-'ei  any  stress  cf  gri?f  wa  ever  doubUn 
.i  ;  M'l'V'Li.t -s  -n-.l  power  to  provide  frr  tnc 
-   i  .".'■  oliMi,.  ?n,  anCcvci  ai.fs.ij!'-;  lii  ■-• 

■■•  "l  •,..".  -=.'"- «  fc  t'te  .soi.l  that  i-nis  1:     -    it' 
.  .  ;:.?         i":  tiov.-  wlit  Thou  inee:  .     .  in 

■  u  ■  -v.bts  and  <  nestlonin/s,  .  Tito 
th  i  "i  •  iit'.varJ  a.  m.i  iirt-»: 
r-l.     1  •■      t:  'ao.    svr'\     <J2   *> 

wiiic-.   Trorict 

'   nt  as  T'-on  tur- 

i  i-..iH  s!ic:.'.   s;-  --»* 

■  f  whf;:-  ii.e  Is 

i  -,    f»crst     .s.    J 


closed,  not  tc  bv  reonened;  the  services  la  the 
e.hurt  h  were,  at  an  end.,  . 

At  the  close  of  the  church  servioe  the  funeral 
procer»!on  egabn  moved,  the  members  of  the 
Social  Circle  going  before  the  hearse,  and  aa  the 
long  and  picturesque  line*  passed,  the  tolling 
of  bells  was  heard  and  manifestations  of 
popular  love  and  sorrow  were  visible  dn. 
every  side.  The  procession  moved  slowly  past 
the  drooping  flag  and  by  the  Town  Hall,  and, 
turning  up  Bradford  street,  leeched  the  peace- 
ful anil  beautiful  cemetery  of  Sleepy  Hollow. 
Moving  i\>  the  puth  that  leads  to  Kiiige 
Hill,  It  parsed  at  last  at  the  highest 
point.  Here  a  bcanttful  ptctnre  was  pre- 
sented. The  sun,  which  was  about  to  set, 
shone  over  the  bill  and  rale,  deeming  on 
white  headstone*  aiu.  glancing  through  grove* 
of  pine:  birds  twHiered  in  toe  boughs  over- 
head, and  bevond  the  eminence  wero  vie  *d 
the  winding  stream  and  the  extending 
•.ncadows  that  envl'on  Concord  with  beauty. 
Trom  this  spot  co'old*  be  seen  the 
list  letting  place  of  Vath  miel  fl  ;tr- 
tln  rr-o.  and  *.->t  fav  off  that  of  H-mry 
't  %r  an  Ti'j  .....•«  was  made  In  the Tmc-on 
,  ..  d*.a  Too!  >f  a  v/V"u.sp«Mdin{  ;tir.»:  lis  «.'  '• 
were  lined  .;fh  b.-'"-,'l»«  of  hehuo-Ta  an'  t<i« 
neighboring  enr.b  carpeted  with,  plue  opravat* 
Here  w  r  >  to  be  noted  also  the  ?»»t  lestinU 
p!sv.-.'  the     wife     of    his    youth,    ol     a 

sou.  ;.  n  Hhat  J  oth>'T»  wh.  £se  <  muny 
y  -rs  :>/a.  The  forvkse  ol  .':;:'.  tl  it  to 
t:  a  en-.:.  t»as  rear!  after  tlio  Evlr-  .  ..  '  ~u  by 
:i  . Xi/v.  in  ilaifkti.s  r>f  Broekivu  i  ••;•;•  i^It- 
V:"  •••  the  dead,  iv.d  »=i  the  wtT'i  ••it  st-,t4- 
fot!"  "■  rti!,:Ti.  i  inn  ffmal  i  , '  ,(i>  i  Wnh '., 
!En:^',*>  a  w«sw  '.  .i  ,i  -iy  forev-r  in  t  e  '■•oil  m» 
»hJoh  ii'.-    i.n-i'M'r*-  h»^ong  a, id  to  *lt.'u>  |f^» 

^•e-nivt5  KsuLaJl/acLfftMlC. 


rfe  m-J;  ■  •< .-*■-» 'i. 


*wlth  the  £>"iin  lrfe 
bv  si'.r-h  vlsio  t«  of  Irn 
nisht  st  to  them.  T^e. : Ua.  . 
to  us  fov>- 1  -  <  :  the  Uiv  . 
full,  and  which  -..tuii*  :-" 
we  may  be  made  ."  t>erf.-<  ..-  jwafti'.f  Tii* 
presence  here  as  to  know  mat  w  *e."!c  f-ver^rtft 
beyond  Thy  love  and  care,  and  1:  "f  •:(  portion 
In  rhy  splrltiutl  unlrente^shall  i  v  cad.  :-  ,.iv  and 
unccaslnc  love.  Thus,  <*  Cod,  may  ti:e  ;re»t 
words  wnlch  these  silent  lii-s  hai  e  sim^.t-  *o  nr 
and  welch  will  lire  on  in  the  pag«s  cf  men* 
books  and  upon  the  tablets  of  their  hen.^,,  t-»s» 
fragrant  memory  of  lhl>  pure,  Amplete  »-4S 
saintly  life  help  to  madre  all  men  "better,  thr  -  -h 
all  time  to  come,  and  to  keep  their  souls  ir.  u  - 
way  of  eternal  life.  We  atk.  >t  a*  U.*cip!es  ,r* 
Thrist  and  for  Thine  iuflntte  marefs  sskV 
Vrnen.  « 

The  congregation  sang  lira.  Barbauld's  hv..'.n: 
*Bow  bleat  the  rtgJt»*ous  whtn  he^lte*," 
And  then  Mr.   A  Icott  stepped  quietly  forw^iw 
standing  near  the  head  ot  bis-  dean  friend  he> 
read  this  sonnet: 

His  bare  Is  sOeati  shall  sneeesters  rtss, 
XooctUns  with  venturous  baod  th«  tremDUag  atrlr^, 

Rjrdla  clad  rvrtures.  vtttean  or  jurprl?e, 
A  nd  wak»  to  er9tar»  each  slumbenns  thin  ;  7 

Shall  life  and  thought  flaab  osvr  la  wondering  «r'«. 

A*  when  the  «eer  a*n*»ndent,  great  aad  »i«, 

World- wlilo  bts  nailre  inciodlCT  did  t'.aa. 

Flashed  with  fair  bopea  an<1  ancient  memories? 

A.h,  do!  Llatniatehlcaa  lyre  »'_.dl  aacat  lie; 
i.rone  hath  the  rant-bed  nv.nitrel's  r-otii'.riTS»kiri 
To  toach  that  lmtraaient  » ,dt  art  and  -  til, 

t.  Kb  lilm  winded  poe»*  doth  droop  and  u.<:— 
While  our  dull  age.  left  vo:  wieas  »oti*t  U'n»ent 
lhs  bati  high  heaven  had  for  its  service  v.it. 

The  Benediction. 

Dr.  Fumess  said:  IT  the  congTca'.ticn  .Ul 
rise  1  wid  dismiss  It.  Every  one  stood  !-.  rev-r- 
ent silence  and  witn  bowed  neau-»  .-■«  \iv  p.-o- 
nounced  these  words:  And  now  may  t'.i*  tie  1 
of  peace.  He  who  brought  again  front  t'ledp.ul 
the  f.ord  Jesus  Christ,  that  great  sheph.-r-l  of 
:ho  sheep,  make  yon  rexfect  in  every  pood  w  ;  i 
and  work,  working  in  yon  that  wl.ich  is  -  : 
pleasing  in  hii  sitjht  aiay  graea,  r.:e  r;  i-.nd 
peace  from  God  «hi>  1  athcr  and  the  Lord  Je>u* 
Christ  be  with  us  all  forever. 

Judge  Broolcs  invited  all  who  vn  hed  to  i.-ok 
oice  more  ou  the  pntls,  vener.-ted  face,  so 
peaceful  In  Its  last,  long  sleep.  The?  is  a 
general  response  to  this  call;  former-1  tuxr  "It 
an  hour  townsmen  and  those  from  afar,  the  ;  ol- 
lege  professor  i»nd  '.he  farm  lsoorer,  the  ti^r- 
Cbant  and  the  mechanic,  filed  by  the  <  asUet 
containing  the  beloved  form.  Wheu  all  these 
friends  had  secured  the  glimpse,  so  cinch  de- 
sired ana  long  to  be  cherished,  the  relatives 
tooic  their  lr.st.  fond  farewell;  the  eastet  wag 


\n  Attack  *a  Walt  ffklimaa. 

In  the  American  edition  of  "TheMaclise  Por- 
trait Gallery  "  one  finds  the  following  foot  note, 
entitled  The  Walt  Whitman  Hoax."  sars  a 
icorrespondeni  ot  the  New  York  Son : 
r.  "An  eminent  litterateur.  Mr.  W.  M.  Rosscttl, 
'laid  a  running  plot  to  test  the  gullibility  of  the 
Epnblic  i  a  matters  of  taste  and  criticism.  He  dug 
up  an'Amertcan  "poet'  who  bad  never  written 
poetrr  in  his  lite,  and  In  all  he  bad  written  was 
wombastic.  coarse,  conceited,  ana  wreverent,  or 
generally  meaningless.    • 

"  He  reprinted  him  In  England,  wrote  a  eulo- 
gistic nrc face,  and  engatred  some  really  clever 
fellows— Prof.  Dowden,  A.C.  Swinburne.  Robert 
Buchanan.  &c— to  aid  th*  scheme  by  unstinted 
'and  indiscriminate  laudation  The  bait  tooK. 
Men  who  had  never  read  Washington  Irving  or 
:  Wliittier  echoed  the  cuckoo  cry,  and  '  Walt 
Whitman'  w  as  the  noblest  transatlantic  '  tone' 
■yet  beard. 

"Prof.  Baynein  an  able  article  in  the  Contemno. 
jrary  Review  (December,  1875),  pretty  well,  shook 
!tbe  bean  out  of  the  puppet  *  poet,'  but  the  im- 
fpetus  be  got  at  starting  still  carries  him  on,  and, 
lite  a  snent  halt,  he  may  yet  roll  on  languidly 
jDraUoaV 


THE    CHRISTIAN    UNION 
A  MAY  DAY  IN  CONCORD. 

ONE  who  sees  Walden  Pond  for  the  first  time  on  a 
clear  spring  afternoon,  its  translucent  depths  full 
of  color  and  light,  feels  at  a  glance  the  charm  which  drew 
Thorcau  so  often  to  its  wooded  margins,  and  understands 
wilh  hardly  a  lithe  of  his  marvelous  natural  perception, 
how  he  found  so  much  of  the  overshadowing  world  of 
forest  and  sky  in  its  quiet  waters.  In  the  old  adage,  trulb 
lies  at  the  bottom  of  a  well  ;  and  here  surely  Thereat 
found  it,  in  thedepthsof  this  little  lake  hidden  among  the 
trees.  Unlike  most  ponds,  it  separates  itself  sharply  from 
its  surroundings  by  its  clear,  clean  shores,  free  from  un- 
dergrowth, and  defined  everywhere  by  a  line  of  while 
sand  ;  one  gets  an  impression  of  distinct  individuality  from 
this  little  sheet  of  water,  which  holds  itself  apart  from 
the  wooded  heights  that  encircle  it,  and  rises  and  falls 
by  some  mysterious  law  of  its  own  ;  as  if  it  needed  no 
feeding  from  the  skies,  but,  like  the  men  who  odcc 
haunted  its  shores,  had  found  the  source  of  inner  life. 
Looking  upon  Walden  Pond,  one  understands,  too,  what 
Margaret  Fuller  had  in  her  thought  when  she  wrote  of 
a  pond  nearGroton,  "  breaking  into  exquisite  wavelets" 
at  her  feet,  that  in  such  pools  one  sees  the  most  subtle 
force  combined  with!  the  most  winumji;  gcuilcmbd. 
Translucent  water  has  that  finest  quality  of  matter,  the 
power  of  receiving  into  itself  and  blending  with  its  own 
being  the  forms  of  life  that  surround  and  overhang  it. 
The  light  that  suffuses  Waldeu  Pond  and  the  stars  that 
shine  in  ils  depths  on  cloudless  nights!  have  made  it  a 
vcrit  ible  pool  of  mystery.  It  is  the  sharp  individuality  of 
Walden  Pond,  surrounded  by  woods  and  overdung  oy 
the  sky,  so  clear  that  the  most  delicate  forms  of  either 
are  n  produced  in  it,  and  yet  apparently  detached  from 
both,  that  continually  suggests  Thoreau,  whose  presence 
seems  to  haunt  the  place  even  now. 

Thl»  thought  of  marvelously  keen  receptivity  united 
to  a  certain  isolation  and  power  of  self-support  brings 
one  near  to  the  source  and  secret  of  the  intellectual 
movement  which  long  ago  made  Concord  a  place  of 
world-wide  fame  ;  more  significant  in  the  true  history  of 
man's  life  on  earth  than  many  a  great  city,  with  miles 
of  shipping  at  its  wharves.  There  are  few  readers  of 
American  books  who  have  not  at  some  period  felt  the  at- 
traction of  this  quiet  town,  and  accepted,  in  imagination 
at  least,  its  gentle  hospitality.  One  should  see  Con- 
cord when  the  tender  flush  of  spring  is  deepening  in 
the  woods,  and  the  softness  that  overspreads  the  land- 
scape is  like  a  mist  of  memories  ;  as  if  the  incoming 
tide  of  life  had  revivified  the  spiritual  no  less  than  the 
material  Concord. 

In  the  Celtic  legend  good  St.  Brandan,  journeying 
westward,  touched  one  of  those  islands  of  immortal 
peace  with  which  the  elder  Imagination  broke  here  the 
sweep  and  waste  of  the  seas.  Such  a  place  of  calm  and 
repose  has  this  charming  village  been  in  our  busy  and 
eager  life.  The  benignant  spirit  which  looks  out  from 
Mr.  French's  bust  of  Emer3on  may  well  be  the  genius 
of  a  place  so  tranquil,  so  full  of  unspoken  invitations  to 
repose,  so  gently  emphatic  in  its  protest  against  the  fret 
and  fever  of  modern  life.  The  Concord  River  is  the 
very  embodiment  of  quiet  motion,  its  current  hardly 
perceptible  as  it  lingers  reluctant  at  every  turn,  as  if  to 
mirror  Concord  days  and  nights  were  greater  joy 
than  the  plash  of  mill-wheels  and  the  rush  to  the  sea. 
Thoreau  repeats  a  local  tradition  to  the  effect  that  the 
only  bridge  ever  carried  away  on  the  main  branch 
within  the  limits  of  the  town  was  driven  up  stream  by 
the  wind.  "  Without  a  murmur  or  pulse-beat,  with  the 
moccaslned  tread  of  an  Indian  warrior,"  it  flows  with 
gentle  sweep  onward  through  the  historic  landscape, 
carrying  Its  unspoken  message  of  peace  to  the  wild- 
flowers  and  meadow  grasses  which  mark  its  course. 

It  is  the  constant  appeal  to  some  of  the  richest  associ- 
ations of  one's  intellectual  history  that  makes  a  first  visit 
to  Concord  memorable.  Certain  names  are  continually 
on  the  lips,  certain  books  speak  once  more  with  the 
puissant  inspiration  of  those  golden  hours  when  they 

>  Wistaria  signifies,  "  W«loomo,  fair  stranger." 


101 
first  lighted  the  fires  of  aspiration  and  set  all  life  to  a 
celestial  haimony,  certain  forms  vanish  and  reappear 
along  the  highways.  Reverence  for  those  who  have 
served  us  greatly  when  we  most  needed  help  will  not 
die  while  men  keep  any  spark  of  soul  alive  in  them,  and 
he  is  greatly  to  be  pitied  who  can  sit  in  homes  where 
great  men  have  workod  or  staud  by  the  places  where 
they  rest  from  their  labors  and  not  feel  moved  out  of  the 
moods  of  common  life.  Concord  ha*  seen  so  much, 
however,  of  the  vulsar  sort  of  hero-worship  that  one 
finds  a  certain  satisfaction  in  postponing  his  acquaint- 
ance with  it  until  it  has  become  mainly  a  place  of 
memories.  There  was  something  fine  and  delicate  in  the 
man  who  came  twice  from  the  far  West  to  seek  an  in- 
terview wilh  Mr.  Emerson,  and  when  be  found  himself 
at  the  great  man's  door  paused  each  time  and  turned 
back.  Even  the  "  Old  Manse,"  upon  which  history  and 
literature  alike  lay  claims  to  ownership,  stands  so  se- 
cluded that  its  very  aspect  rebukes  vulgar  curiosity. 
The  bou3e  in  which  Emerson  wrote  "  Nature,"  and 
Hawthorne  the  "Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse,"  must 
always  keep  its  door  ajar  to  the  imagination  of  the 
world  ;  but  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  this  venerable 
house  still  shelters  an  unbroken  family  life  that  has 
always  been  a  history  of  the  highest  public  and  private 
virtue,  the  truest  and  most  genuine  culture.  Such 
homes  arc  rare  among  us,  and  he  is  not  to  be  envied 
who  could  come  within  the  walls  of  the  "  Old  M-inse  " 
and  not  feel  something  of  the  sicredncss  which  att  ichei 
to  unbroken  traditions  of  sweet  and  pure  living  under 
one  roof  through  successive  generations. 

The  pine  tree,  "  the  giver  of  honor "  stands  by 
the  windows  of  the  study  in  which  Mr.  Emerson 
worked,  and  overshadows  the  place  where  he  sleeps  ;  it 
was  his  subtle  Interpretation  of  its  place  and  meaning 
in  the  vast  economy  of  nature  which  has  made  it  sacred 
to  a  certain  sweet  but  solitary  mood.  Standing  on  the 
hill  where  Emerson,  Hawthorne,  and  Thoreau  lie  buried, 
one  feels  how  appropriate  is  the  fellowship  of  the  pines 
that  crown  the  height,  and  through  whose  delicate 
needles  the  winds  make  a  quiet  threnody.  Through 
these  branches  nature  whispered  some  wonderful  secrets 
to  Emerson,  for 

..."  The  countless  leaves  of  the  pine  are  strings 
Tuned  to  the  lav  the  wood-sod  sinsrs." 
The  wide  outlook,  the  scclusion'tnat  comes  not^from 
retirement  but  from  breadth  of  view,  the  silence  which 
only  nature  ventures  to  break,  are  not  alien  to  those 
whose  genius  combined  something  of  all  these  elements. 
They  all  fled  from  cities  to  the  companionship  of  the 
woods  and  the  bills,  from  men  to  winds  and  stars  and 
the  still  voices  of  rivers  and  forests  ,  and  these  have 
taken  them  into  everlasting  communion.  There  was 
something  of  isolation  and  solitude  In  each,  as  there 
always  has  been  and  always  must  be  in  men  of  the  highest 
genius. 

Emerson  found  in  solitude  that  quietness  of  mood  to 
which  his  own  nature  was  keyed.  "  It  was  good,"  says 
Hawthorne,  "  to  meet  him  in  the  wood-paths,  or  some- 
times In  our  avenue,  with  that  pure  intellectual  gleam 
diffused  about  his  presence  like  the  garment  of  a  shining 
one;  and  he  so  quiet,  so  simple,  so  without  pretension, 
encountering  each  man  alive  as  if  expecting  to  receive 
more  than  he  could  impart."  He  saw  the  dangers  of 
isolation  as  clearly  as  he  saw  the  perils  of  too  close  a 
contact  with  the  world  ;  nature  may  be  as  fatal  to  the 
most  complete  development  as  society.  It  was  his  wise 
perception  of  the  best  conditions  of  growth  which 
prompted  Emerson  to  say  that  "  solitude  is  impractica- 
ble, and  society  fatal,"  and  that  at  times  made  him  feel 
about  the  charm  of  woods  and  fields  that  "  a  brave 
scholar  should  shun  it  like  gambling,  and  take  refuge 
in  cities  and  hotels  from  these  pernicious  enchant- 
ments." A  certain  isolation  from  the  mass  of  men,  a  cer- 
tain remoteness  from  great  cities,  from  commerce  and  me- 
chanical industry ,  was  the  necessary  condition  of  the  work 
done  at  Concord.  Margaret  Fuller  more  than  once  ex- 
pressed her  impatience  with  the  seclusion  in  which  Emer- 
son lived,  but  his  larger  wisdom  and  ampler  nature  found 
the  truer  point  of  view,  and  established  the  most  health- 
ful relations  with  practical  life.     It  was  his  great  work 


v  a  £   a 

*-  3  ?,  xi 

"  a  *•  •* 

_  I  B  -H 


>     9» 


S,»j'a 

.2  (c  3  -8 

£  d«3 


111 

ai    3       t 

■"  v  .2 
r>>.a  o 


5  .a  .2  l* 

"  Zi  XI 


3 


or)   j£     > 


-o-a  2  o 

■5  "5  °  ~~ 

t  Sen  3 

>        ja    o 
<o  "3  — ■ 


5  —  " 

°     O     0 

a   *   p 


«    o  — 
Q,  o 

«*  —  t!  *S 
«  .2  3  ° 

•2  §  u  2 

S3  1  1 

*.  a  6 
<a  —  ■" 
tJ  «o  3  S 
—  «■£•= 
-  aj  .2 
•h  a  3  3 

°  e  1 5" 

ti     ry     5T»   W 

GO     "       0>      ,-, 


x    r>    4>    <j 
.3    *    *    >  2 


ij  If 

2   *"■  S    a 
5  a  ■-  "2 


9  -    -   c 


b3  ij  r  o 

S     °"    3 


as  " 
St   3 


2  -2 


g   S   a 

a  *  ■& 

a  ■" 

to  a 


U    XI    XX 

a    u    m 

"3  S  a 
HU  8 


fl  = 


3-3  .jS.2 


5^  S 
S2W 


-J  .2  Si  jb  *+  3  3 


102 


his  Ibought  is  most  impersonal,  most  completely  de- 
tached from  local  surroundings,  from  social  conditions, 
from  any  special  intellectual  environment. 

If  one  wanted  to  test  the  health  fulness  and  essential 
soundness  of  the  intellectual  influences  which  once 
radiated  from  Concord,  he  would  find  in  the  atmosphere 
which  abides  there,  and  in  the  tone  and  habit  still  dom- 
inant there,  conclusive  evidence.  The  repose  and  quiet- 
ness of  spirit,  which  even  the  most  hurried  visitor  can- 
not  fail  to  fed,  are  the  fruits  of  a  true  conception  of 
a  dignified,  cultured  living.  From  the  beginning  of  its 
history  the  community  has  been  singula!  ly  free  from 
that  vulgar  display  which  has  invaded  even  our  quiet- 
est towns  Elsewhere.  Elegant  equipsges,  with  rattling 
harness,  conveying  to  ostentatious  homes  gentlemen 
who  will  shortly  figure  m  the  bankruptcy  lists,  are  con- 
spicuously absent,  and  success  gets  little  credit  unless  .it 
is  founded  on  honest  methods  and  dignified  by  some  in- 
tellectual quality.  If  the  transcendental  movement 
bad  nothing  more  than  made  Concord  what  it  has  "been 
and  is,  it  would  have  rendered  no  small  service  to  a  peo» 
pie  whose  occupations  require  such  enormous  idealiza- 
tion. The  spirit  which  gave  Emerson's  life  an  eleVatien 
so  commanding  long  ago  escaped  the  limitations  of  a 
purely  literary  expression ;  it  is  spiritualizing  the  mv 
menae  material  civilization  of  America  aa  the  thought  of 
a  sculptor  slowly  masters  the  stone  on  which  he  works. 

Hajoltoh  W.  Mabie. 

Bonos,  May,  1884. 


!  Ml?*  6 


•c  'C  o  w 


©  

O  <  0  o 


00    O    "m 

r-  4» 

.a 
H 


5 

m 

I 

3 
8 

$  S      A 

•a  «  s  a  3 

*>  ».  -j  _   ,  a 

(•"too  £  a 

si jj i\ 

3.93    e 


**% 


|a=3g«s 
!  i  5  i  i  I 

-  $  5  *     s 

d  E  fl  9       ja 


Qld+Ul**' 


utmtm  oi  in*  au 
than  describe 
aa«*~*re«riTr 
seen    present 


«,  Bar.  Ralph.  'Waldo  Emema. 
sua  lzctttbjc  on    memory    before   thb 

COHCORD  SCHOOL  OF  PHILOSOPHY. 

The  In  wrest  in  the  Concord  School  of  Phi- 
losophy culminated  yesterday  aiternooo, 
whan  Mr.  Emerson  fare,  hla  lecture  on 
"Memory. "  Tha  Interest  lo  the  famous 
Concord  author  waa  ao  great  that  tha  audl- 
net  would  Dot  be  contained  within  the 
"Orebard  House,"  and  tbe  vestry  of  tha 
Congregational  Church,  a  room  that  seats 
comfortably  280  persons,  waa  obtained  for 
this  purpose.  Mr.  Emerson  la  a  prophet 
net  without  honor  even  In  his  own  country 
aqd  anions;  hla  own  kith  and  kin.  Tbe 
veatry  was  ao  crowded  that  many  bad  to 
be  turned  away.  -  There  waa  neither 
seating  nor  standing  room  for  any  more. 
Tha  thermometer  had  tha  misfortune 
to-  rise  to  about  ninety  degrees,  and  tbe 
state  of  the  audience  can  be  better  Imagined 
Ibed.  Tat  they  bad  come  to  see 
""  Ir.  Emeraon.  and  would  bave 
present  bad  the  weatber  been  even 
bolter  than  It  waa.  The  laet  tbat  he  has 
now  greatly  lost  hte  memory,  and,  tbouan 
In  tolerably  good  beaitb,  la  really  an  old 
nuta,  drew  many  people  to  hear  him,  be- 
sides the  persona  who  are  attending  tbe 
philosophical  school.  Among  them  waa 
one  of  Mr,  Emerson's  classmates  at  Har- 
vard, Mr.  J.  B.  Hill,  or  Mason,  N.  Y..  a 
vigorous  old  gentleman,  rather  abort  for  bis 
else,  who  eat  next  to  his  Illustrious  friend 
daring  tbe  reading  oi  tbe  lecture,  and 
seemed  to  take  In  every  word  with  great 
enjoyment. 

Other  strangers  were  the  Hon.  George  S. 
Bontwell  and  bis  daughter.  Miss  Georgian* 
Bontwell;  Mrs.  A.  J.  Ryckoff,  of  Cleve- 
land; Senator  Hoar,  the  Rev.  Dr.  H.  N. 
Powers,  or  Bridgeport,  Connecticut,  and 
the  Rev.  E.  F.  Howe,  of  Newtonvllte. 
Miss  Emerson  attended  her  father  and  acted 
aa  hla  assistant,  bat  Mr.  Emerson  got 
through  remarsably  well.  Hla  voica  was 
tbe  clear,  distinct  voice  of  other  days;  be 
did  not  loee  his  Interest  In  what  be  was 
aaylng,  either  from  badness  of  memory  or 
physical  weariness;  tbe  peculiar  Emersoni- 
an emphasis  was tbereaaof  yore;  yoaknew 
when  he  struck  an  Idea  he  liked  by  tbe  smile 
trial  played  upon  nia  features, as  be  ulterefj 
the  words  and  by  a  certain  tenderness  \r 
tone;  and  tha  large  audience  aat  In  *&( 
moat  perfect  alienee,  aava  when  tt  ( 
homo*  made  one  laugh,  from  tbe  bealfei 
nlng  to  toe  end  of  the  read! of.    It  was  on.v 


THE    HOME  OF   EMERSON. 


%1  Golden  October  Day  in  Clan- 
sic  Concord. 


Sleepy    Hollow   Bnrying-Groand. 


The  Marriage 
Mrs. 


Gift   of   Carlyle 
Emerson. 


to 


"Happy  places  have  prcsn  ho'j;  It  we  #o  where 

ostce  we  went 
Only  tears  will  fall  down  slowly,  as  at  toleara  tiera- 
tneat." 
Tbeae  Does  repeat  themselves  to  one  as  bo 
pauses  under  the  tall  cliesarnt  ir?es  tbat  stand 
at  tbe  gateway  to  Eaierson's  home  and  listens 
for  an  imptrciprfole  moment  to  tha  wind  in  tbe 
pine  trees  above.  The  gate  is  hospitably  opeD, 
and  a  stone-flagged  path  leads  totoe  dour.  A<  it 
opens  one  steps  into  a  ball  rnnni njr  the  depth'  of 
tbe  house,  and  notes  bangjnc  above  a  table  an 
old  picture  of  Ganymede.  At  tbe  right  a  door 
opens  into  a  study — his  study —and  one  steps 
across  the  thresbbold  reverently.  Tbe  apart- 
ment is  In  alt  respect*  aa  Mr.  Emorsoa  left  it. 
For  all  token  ot  absence  he  might  well  bave 
stepped  into  the  adjoining  room.  In  the  centra 
of  the  room  Is  a  large  table.  I;  is  piled  with 
books.  Co  one  side  lies  tbe  little  blotting  pad 
with  theets  of  paper,  and  by  it  a  pen  and  an  ink 
bottle.  This  is  all  the  paraphernalia  ot  Emer- 
ron's  writing  material-".  No  desk  with  its 
liigroa  holes  and  litter;  no  array  of  "reference'' 
books;  nothing  of  the  usual  machinery 
at*     Its     professional     litterateur,     and     this 


absence  cf  ali  literary  mechanism  impresses  tbe 
visitor.  Mrs,  Annie  Fields,  iu  a  paper  in  Bar- 
ptr's  Magazine  a  year  or  two  sicce,  described 
F.merson's  method  of  writing  on  ball  sheets  of 
paper,  letting  them  fall  on  the  floor  when  writ- 
teo.  It  was  in  this  manner  tbat  the  "Vjlanta- 
iles"  was  written,  one  morning  before  break- 
fast, when  he  was  a  guest  at  their  house,  and  on 

bis  asking  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fields  to  come  to  his 
room  and  bear  it,  the  poen  was  found  on  these 
t  entered  sheets  all  over  the  carpet.  Mr.  Emer- 
aon asked  Mr.  Fields  for  a  nam*  for  tbe  poem, 
and  ba  gave  it  the  perfect  title,  "Voluntaries." 
It  Is  in  this  poem  tbat  tbe  Immortal  Maes  occat  : 

So  nigh  is  grandeur  to  oar  dost, 
So  near  to  God  Is  man, 

TV  hen  do'y  whispers  low,  Thou  mutt, 
Tbe  youth  replies,  /  can. 

The  absence  of  all  literary  mecbant>m  im- 
press one   with   the   peculiar     spirituality    ot 
Emerson's  message.     Direct  from   heaven    it 
seamed  to  fall  on  the  white  paper.    No  materia 
medium  interposed.     He  kept  blmeelf   onen- 
cumbered  by  detail  and  free  to  receive  spiritual 
impression?.    Tbs  quality  of  his  life  permitted 
him  to  transmit'  and  transcribe  them.     "My 
whole  philosophy,  which  is  very  real,"  he  ones 
wrote,  "teaches  acquiescence   and    optimism. 
Sure  I  am  that  the  right  word  will  bs  spokes, 
though  I  cut  ont  my  tongue  "    In  bis  discourse 
on  Emerson,  Matthew  Arnold  said:  "Happiness 
In  labor, 'lghteousness  and  veracity;  in  all  the 
life  of  tbs  spirit,  happiness  and  eternal  hope;— 
tbat  was  Emerson's  go  >  pel........  But  by  his 

conviction  that  the  Ufa  of  the  spirit  is  hippi- 
nefs,  and  by  his  hope  that  this  life  of  the  spirit 
will  come  more  and  snore  to  be  sandy  uuderv 
stood,  and  to  prevail  and  to  work  for  happi- 
ness— by  this  conviction  and  bops  Emerson  was 


great."  Nowhere  could  one  be  mora  profound- 
ly imsressed  with  the  dignity,  the  serenity  and 
toe  deration  of  Emerson's  character  thin  in 
lingering  in  his  study.  Over  the  loir  tnaatel 
bangs  a  fine  copy  of  Michael  Augelou's  "Fates." 
There  if  a  carious  old  Egyptian  idol,  choice 
engravings  on  the  wails,  and  busts  of  cele- 
brated men  stand  hre  and  there  about 
the  room.  On  either  side  the  fireplace  two 
doors  open  into  the  tunny  south  parlor,  where  a 

crimson  carpet  glows  like  a  warm  welcome, 
and  window  draperies  of  tbe  tame  rich,  warm 
color  are  swept  back  rerealiog  toe  view  of  low 
bills  crowned  with  pine  trees,  fax  across  the 
quiet  meadows.  All  the  landscape  is  In  a  minor 
key,  still,  unaccentuated,  fall  of  a  peace  that  is 
not  yet  stagnation.  In  this  room  hangs  the 
picture— an  old  Italian  engraving  of  a  sun-god— 
wbich  was  Carlyls's  marriage-gift  to  Mrs. 
Emerson.  It  bean  on  the  back  a  slip  of  paper 
parted  on  tbe  boards,  on  which  U  written,  in 
Carlyle's  own  handwriting,  a  little  inscription, 
something  to  the  effect  that  this  picture  is  for 
the  lady  of  tbe  Concord  home,  from  one  whose 
household  will  ever  hare  eause  to  remember 
hers,  and  signed  T.  Carlyle.  Tbe  risltor  looks 
lone  and  liogertagly  at  this  choice  token,  and 
perchance  in  memory  he  flads  some  stray 
echoes  of  a  letter  which  in  1841  Car!  vie  wrote  to 
Mrs.  Emerson,  saying  to  her:  "You- are  an 
enthusiast;  you  make  Arabian  Nights  out  of 
doll,  foggy  London  days;  with  your  beautiful 
female  imagination  ships  burnished  cop- 
per castles  out  of  London  fog.  It  is  rery 
beantirul  of  you,— nay,  It  U  not  foolish  either,  it 

;  -  wfca. f . .  Your  oao^s  -<*h>s»H   r*-.i~h   ltU« 

Martlneau;  my  Dame  will  seed  it  io  her  first 
letter.  Tbe  good  Harriet  is  not  well,  but  keeps 
a  very  courageous  heart.  She  lires  by  the  shore 
of  the  beautiful  blue  Northumbrian  sea."  It  was 
ont  of  this  borne  that  Kmerson  wrote  to  Carlyle, 
'  Your  rooms  io  America  are  waiting  for  you, 
and  my  wife  is  making  ready  a  closet  for  Mrs. 
Carlyle."  It  was  out  of  this  home,  too,  that 
Miss  Martineau  wrote  to  Carlyle  that  Emerson 
was  "the  OBly  man  in  America  who  had 
quietly  sat  himself  down  on  a  competency  to 
follow  his  own  path  and  do  tbe  work  his  own 
will  prescribed  for  him."  Carlyle  tells  this  to 
Emerson,  and  says:  "Pity  that  you  ware  the 
only  one!  but  be  one,  nevertheless ;  be  tbe  first 
and  thgte  will  come  a  se:ond  and  a  third.  It  is 
a  poor  country  where  all  men  are  sold  to  Mam- 
mon, and  ran  make  nothing  but  railways  and 
bursts  of  parliamentary  eloquence." 

A  lovtly  portrait  of  a  daughter  of  tbe  house 
bangs  in  this  suany  parlor,  arid  here  hare  gath- 
ered social  groups  including  almost  every  noted 
person  who  has  ever  visited  America.  Hje. 
were  tbe  famous  conversations,  when  Bronson 
Alcott  and  Margaret  Puller  joined  in  them. 
Bere  Frederlcka  Bremer  sat  and  chatted.  Thor- 
eau came  dally  for  tbe  comorebansion  and  sym- 
pathy be  found,  and  old  John  Brown  was  often 
found  here,  silent  and  absorbed,  until,  as  Mr. 
Bartlett  said,  "some  allusion  or  cbauce  remark 
would  fire  bis  soul  and  ligbt  up  his  rugged 
features." 

It  was  from  Emerson's  Borne,  on  this  perfect 
coldtn  day  of  last  October,  that  the  little  Darty. 
fouud  their  way  to  Sleepy  Hollow  cemetery, 
that  plnce  of  consecrated  history.  Here,  under 
the  pine  trees  that  be  loved,  in  the  gronad  con- 
secrated by  the  by  mn  be  wrote,  sleeps  all  that 
wss  moriul  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson.  Within  a 
step  are  ibe  graves  of  tbo  Tboreau  family,  and 
tbe  Hawthorne  lot,  where  the  great  master  of 
American  romance  lies  buried,  and  near  him  the 
two  little  grandchildren,— Oladys,  daughter  of 
Julian  Hawthorne.  and^F  ranklln  Hawthorne,  son 
of  George  P.  and  of  Rote  Hawthorne  Lathrop 
The  burial  of  Hawthorne,  related  one  of  bis 


103 

near  friends,  was  one  of  the  most  touching  and 
pathetic  scenes.  He  was  brought  from  New 
Hampshire,  where  he  died,  to  the  little  Concord 
eburcb.  The  Satnrday  Club  came  to  pay  the 
la&t  tribute  of  respect,  and  here  sat  Longfellow, 
Agassiz,  Emerson,  Whipple,  Lowell.  As  the  sim- 
ple set  vices  closed  they  all,  moved  by  simultane- 
ous accord,  rose  and  bent  a  last  look  abore  their 
dead  friend.  Tbe  friends  all  walked  to  Sleepy 
Hollow.  Only  one  carriage— that  bearing 
Mrs.  Hawthorne — was  in  the  procession.  As 
Agassiz  entered  tbe  cemetery  he  stopped  and 
gathered  a  little  bunch  of  violet*,  which  he 
dropped  on  the  casket  as  It  was  lowered  into  the 
groom*.  The  graves  of  tbe  Tboreau  family  are 
conoosly  suggestive  of  tbe  isolation  of  tempera- 
ment that  marked  their  Uvea.  Here  lie  tbe 
father  and  the  mother,  and  tbe  three  unmarried 
sons  and  daughter,  Henry,  William,  and  Sophia, 
all  long  pist  middle  age,  dying  a  solitary  death 
out  of  a  solitary  life.  The  Emerson  lot  Is  his- 
toric. Here  lies  the  little  Waldo,  whom  Mar- 
garet Fuller  loved,  and  for  whom  Emerson's 
"Threnody''  was  written.  Here  is  that  strange, 
weird  genius,  Mary  Moody  Emerson,  the  aunt 
to  whom  be  always  felt  he  owed  so  much  of  in- 
tellectual energy  and  thought.  An  extraordin- 
ary mental  life  was  hers.  After  the  custom  of 
her  day,  when  life  was  not  so  active  but  that 
there  was  an  abundance  of  time  to  analyze  and 
reeord  it,  she  kept  copious  journal  records, 
and  we  read  bow  she  baked  bread,  read  Shake- 
speare, dipped  into  Cicero,  finished  the  family 
washing,  and  made  notes  from  Penelon— all  in 
one  day.  This  curious  mixture  was  fairly 
typical  of  her  eccentric  life.  So  one  thought  of 
ber  with  mingled  pathos  and  amusement,  and 
above  the  golden  sunshine  sifted  through  golden 
leaves,  and  the  breeze  sounded  its  faint,  wind- 
harp  music  through  the  pine  trees,  and  the  sun- 
shine of  the  October  day  fell  .ilentlr  over  the 
grave  of  Emerson. 


MATTHEW  ARNOLD  ON  KlUBIOON. 

Kmerson  and  FrantUln  Writers   Who 
Sustain  Hrnnan  Conrace  and  Hope. 

Boston,  Dec.  2.— Matthew  Arnold  deliv- 
ered his  lecture  on  "Emerson,"  Saturday 
afternoon,  the  first  time  in  America,  in  the 
presence  of  a  representative  audience.  Mr. 
Arnold,  while  professing  profound  love 
and  veneration  for  Emerson,  declared  that 
he  was  not  a  great  poet,  nor  a  great  man  of 
letters,  nor  a  philosophy  maker  —  facts 
which,  he  said,  no  one  knew  better  than 
Emerson  himself.  Emerson's  essays,  how 
ever,  were,  in  Mr.  Arnold's  opinion,  tbe 
most  fruitful  in  prose  writings  of  the  age, 
and  he  pronounced  Emerson  and  Franklin 
two  of  the  most  distinctively  American  of 
our  writers  and  said  they  could  sot  be 
prized  too  highly,  nor  be  heeded  too  dili- 
gently. Their  writings  tended  to  keep  up 
human  courage  and  hope. 

.     BemfjatsMnem  of  Thoreao. 

a/w.  £u-t*v*~r  /for 

More  than  fortv  years  ago  half  a  dozen 
boys  were  on  the  east  bank  of  tbe  Assabet 
river  taking  a  sun  bath  after  their  swim 
in  the  stream.  They  were  talking  about 
the  conical  heaps  of  stones  in  the  river, 
and  wishing  that  that  they  knew  what 
built  them.  There  were  about  as  many 
theories  as  there  were  boys,  and  no  con- 
clusion had  been  arrived  at,  when  one  of 
the  boys  said"here  comes  Henry  Thoreau, 
let  us  ask  him."  So  when  he  came  near, 
one  of  the  boys  asked    him  "what    made 


those  heaps  of  stones  in  the  river."  "I 
asked  a  Penobscot  Indian  that  question" 
said  Thoreau  "and  he  aaid  'the  musquash 
did, '[but  I  told  him  that  I  was  a  better  In- 
dian than  he,  for  I  knew  and  he  did  not,** 
and  with  that  reply  he  walked  off.  John — 
said, "that  is  just  like  him,  he  never  will 
tell  a  fellow  anything  unless  it  is  in  his 
lectures,  darn  his  old  lectures  about  chip- 
munks and  Injuns,  I  wont  go  to  hear  him," 
and  the  unanimous  conclusion  of  the  boys 
was,  that  when  they  got  left  again,  another 
man  would  do  it.  The  boys  could  not  un- 
derstand Thoreau,  and  he  did  not  under- 
stand boys,  and  both  were  losers  by  it. 

While  looking  over  Thoreau' s  "An 
tumn"  lately,  the  writer  was  reminded  of 
the  time  when  Thoreau  and  the  writer's 
father  spent  some  two  or  three  weeks  run- 
ning anew  the  boundary  lines  in  Sudbury 
woods.  I  think  it  was  in  1S51,  and  there 
were  grave  disputes,  and  law  suits  seemed 
probable  but  after  a  while  these  two  men' 
were  selected  to  fix  the  bounds.  The  real 
trouble  was  owing  to  the  variation  of  the 
compass,  the  old  lines  having  been  run 
some  200  years  before ;  but  Thoreau  un-| 
derstood  his  business  thoroughly  and  seM 
tied  the  boundary  question  so  that  peace? 
was  declared.  Thoreau's  companion  was? 
an  old  lumberman  and  woodchopper  ancf 
a  close  observer  of  natural  objects:  but  ho 
said  that  Thoreau  was  the  Deathman  hi 
Jaad  ever  known  in  the  wood*  *"^WF"^ 
clime  a  UHB  Hffe  a  s^fdfrJelT"  knew  every- 
blant  andWhrub  and  really  seemed  to  hare 
been  bornl in  the  forest  Thoreau  asked' 
manv  questions;  one  of  them  was,  "Do7 
.you  know  where  there  is  a  white  grape,, 
which  grows  on  high  land,  which  bears 
every  year  and  is  of  superior  quality  r" 
"Yes,"  was  the  reply.  "It  is  a  little 
north  of  Deacon  Dakins'  rye  field  and 
when  the  grapes  are  ripe  if  you\  are  not 
on  the  windward  side  your  nose  will  tell 
you  where  they  are."  Thoreau  laughed 
and  appeared  satisfied. 

About  this  time  Thoreau  went  to  a 
party  in  Concord,  and  he  says  in  his 
journal  or  diary,  that  he  would  rather  eat 
crackers  and  cheese  with  his  old .  compan- 
ion in  the  woods. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  suppose  that 
Thoreau  was  a  solitary  student  of  natural 
history  in  Concord  and  vicinity  at  that 
time.  He  was  better  equipped  for  his 
work,  an&  could  record  his  observations 
and  discoveries  better  than  his  fellow 
students  and  this  was  enough,  to  make 
him  famous  in  later  years. 

There  was  a  young  man  who  worked 
on  a  farm  one  year,  and  saveckhis  money 
like  a  miser,  to  spend  il  the  next  year  in 
travel  and  the  study  of  natural  history. 
This  was  done  for  several  years  or  so 
long  as  the  writer  knew  him.  Another 
deliberately  chose  a  hunter's  and  trapper's 


life  id  the  wild,  northwestern  section  of 
oar  great  country,  and  he  bad  the  nerve 
and  determination  to  (tick  to  his  wild, 
dangerous  pursuit  There  was  a  man  in 
Burlington,  Mass.,  70  rears  old  who 
would  be  in  the  woods  and  fields  as  earlj 
as  3  o'clock  during  the  summer  months, 
and  as  soon  as  he  could  see  in  the  winter, 
returning  in  time  to  do  a  full  day's  work 
at  the  shoe  bench. 

He  was  a  most  enthusiastic  student,  but 
he  was  a  good  business  man  as  well.  He 
supplied  the  city  stables  with  skunk's  oil 
at  $2.00  per  quart,  sold  woodcocks  and 
partridges  in  their  season,  and  by  his  skil- 
ful administration  of  strychnine  cleared 
the  country  of  toxes  and  other  pests,  and 
put  man j  dollars  In  his  pocket.  On  Sun- 
days he  would  let  his  birds  and  squirrels 
out  of  their  cages,  call  in  the  dog  and 
cat,  and  a  pet  lamb,  and  then,  the  boys 
said,  "lather  was  in  heaven."  This  man's 
sons  solved  the  problem  which  had  never 
been  solved  before;  namely,  "where  is 
the  other  end  of  a  squirrel's  hole  ?"and  the 
name  of  Skel ton  is  forever  more  associ- 
ated with  that  problem  which  had  vexed 
the  rustic  minds  for  centuries.  I  was 
much  pleased  with  the  reply  which  a  Lynn 
shoemaker  made  me  when  I  asked  him  if 
he  read  Thoreau's  books?  He  replied 
that  he  only  read  them  during  the  winter 
months,  when  he  could  not  go  out  and 
look  for  himself,  and  that  they  were  a 
good  substitute  for  his  out  door  rambles. 

These  unknown  men  are,  and  have  been 
the  branch  lines,  the  feeders  of  the  Grand 
Trunk  naturalists,  and  they  have  not 
lived  in  vain. 

There  was  a  great  intermediate  class 
between  Emerson*  nd  the  Canadian  wood 
chopper  who  would  have  gladly  aided 
Thoreau  if  he  had  been  a  little  more  hu- 
man in  his  dealings  with  them.  The 
modest,  unpretending  Concord  farmers 
who  cultivated  their  fields,  educated  their 
children,  paid  their  taxes  for  the  support 
of  schools,  churches,  and  their  chosen 
form  of  government,  whose  sons  gave 
their  lives  for  their  country  in  its  years 
of  peril,  are  not  to  be  sneered  at  and  de- 
spised by  men  whose  occupations  and 
opinions  differed  from  theirs.  In  the 
language  of  Ruskin  "let  us  think  less  of 
peculiarity  of  employment  and  more  of 
excellence  of  achievement.'*      Crayon. 


Al  .    DIXIE  LAUD, 

THE  AUTHOR  QUTETLY  RESIDES  ft 
MT.  VERNON,  OHIO. 


EAR 


EmmMI'K  Mnnlcnl  M'n»H-How  Dixie 
Land  C«m<-  to  b«*  Written— An  Im- 
mediate Sneeeaa— Pllce'n  m*le. 


104 

[WRITTEN   RrrCIAl.LY   FOR   PltBlilC    l.T-OOKB.] 

How  many  of  the  thousands— nay,  mil- 
lions—whose  hearts,  the  last  six  months, 
have  throbbed  with  Indescribable  pulsa- 
tions of  patriotic  excitement  whenever 
band  or  soloist  or  street  musician  struck 
"up  ••Dixie,"  have  paused  to  wonder  how 
the  stirring  tune  came  to  he,  or  who  pave 
It  to  the  nation? 

Probably  very  few.  Indeed,  are  aware 
that  the  author  of  "Dixie"  1a  still  living, 
reaping  but  little  honor  for  the  composi- 
tion now  so  famous,  and  which  Is  more  en- 
deared probably  to  Americans  than  any 
Other  air,  except  the  "Slar  Sponsion 
Banner."  Daniel  D.  Emmet"  once  known 
throughout  this  country  and  England  as 
Sv  minstrel,  and  the  founder  of  minstrelsy 
In  the  United  States,  resides  now,  at  the 
advanced  age  of  S3  years,  entirely  alone 
on  a  small  farm  In  the  vtclnlty  of  Mount 
Vernon,  Ohio,  his  birthplace.  Since  the 
Conclusion  of  a  tour  with  Al  G.  Fields  s 
minstrels  through  the  South  some,  two 
years  ago,  at  which  time,  as  the  composer 
of  "Dixie,"  he  everywhere  received  ova- 
tions, he  has  settled  down  to  the  life  of 
a  hermit,  say  friends.  Strange  close  to  a 
life  passed  before  the  public,  spent  In 
catering  to  its  pleasure,  cheered  by  He 
applause!  A  photograph  taken  two  years 
ago  shows  that,  although  Emmett's  hair 
and  moustache  are  now  snow  white,  he  Is 
■till  upright,  and  the  years  have  left  but 
■light  trace  upon  his  genial  features. 

Biographers  state  an  interesting  variety 
of  "facts"  concerning  Emmett's  antece- 
dents, some  claiming  his  descent  to  be 
German,  some  Irish.  The  latter  is  actually 
the  case.  His  grandfather  emigrated  here 
from  Ireland  shortly  before  the  Revo- 
lutionary War,  and  served  In  the  army  as 
Chaplain  and  surgeon.  He  settled  In  Vir- 
ginia, and  had  a  son,  Abraham  Emmett, 
■who  later  removed  to  Ohio  and  fought  In 
the  War  of  1812  under  General  Hull.  At 
another  period  he  served  as  a  spy  upon 
the  Indians  In  the  northern  districts  of 
Ohio.  He  married- and  had  a  family  of  fout 
children,  of  whom  Daniel  #D.  Emmett. 
born  October  29,  1816,  was  the  eldest. 

It  Is  said  Shat  during  Emmetfs  boy- 
bood  days  It  was  fashionable  among  the 
young  people  of  Mount  Vernon  to  at- 
tempt the  composition  of  verses  and  their 
adaptntlon  to  popular  tunes;  and  that  In 
this  manner  Emmett  formed  a  liking  for 
minstrelsy.  Shortly  after  1S28,  about  which 
time  he  taught  himself  to  play  the  fiddle 
by  ear,  this  boy  of  13  went  to  Cincinnati 
under  an  engagement  to  play  the  second 
Violin  In  the  orchestra  attached  to  Stick- 
Bey's  Circus,  which  "uchestra."  It  may 
be  observed*  consisted  of  two  violins,  a 
bugle  and  bass  drum. 

Emmett's  Mnrflcal  Work. 
Emmett  then  added  to  his  accomplish- 
ments the  mastery  of  the  piccolo,  flute 
«md  fife,  and  became  In  time  well,  known 
ft*  a  flfer  and  drummer. 
.  HIS  work  in  composition  consisted  prin- 
cipally of  "hoedowns,"  walkarounds"  and 
«arky  melodies.  To  those  unfamiliar  with 
the  traditions  of  minstrelsy,  the  explana- 
tion la  due  that  at  that  time  shows  usually 
•wound  up  with  a  "walkaround,"  the  min- 
strels, in  their  darky  make-up.paclng  fan- 
tastically in  a  circle,  while  singing  some 
catchy  ditty,  to  which  the  clap,  clap  of 
their  feet  kept  time.  "Hoedowns"  were 
Jiejrro   dances,   similarly   accompanied. 

At  various  times  Emmett  travelled  all 
ever  this  country,  meeting  with  good  re- 
ceptions everywhere,  and  some  writers 
rill  attention  to  the  fact  that  minstrelsy 
then  took  the  form  of  a  close  Imitation 
of  quaint  negro  manners  and  customs, 
.whereas  now  it  not  unfrequently  becomes 
mere  clownish  buffoonery. 

In  1843  Emmett  ©rgantxed  the  first  per* 
frect  minstrel  troupe  of  the  United  States. 
Ho  was  Its  leader,   and  associated   with 


him  were  Richard  Pelham,  "Billy"  Whlt- 
lock  and  Frank  Brower.  They  played 
hume.rous  engagements  here  as  the  "Vlr- 

enta  Minstrels."  and  then  travelled  over 
ngland,  reaping  a  goodly  harvest,  and 
finally  wandering  over  the  borders  into 
Scotland,  where  they  separated.  Em- 
mett Is  the  only  one  of  the  four  still  liv- 
ing, and  In  a  letter,  under  date  of  March, 
39.  189S,  to  Mr.  Frank  H.  Dumont.  who 
Courteously  permitted  the  writer  to  extract 
from  It,  Emmett  gives  these  Interesting 
details: 

"In  the  old  times  each  circus  company 
bad  one  or  more  performers,  who  were 
called  'Ethiopian  Delineators;'  In  other 
words,  singing  of  negro  songs  in  character. 
Jn  the  summer  of  1842  I  located  In  New 
York  and  played  the  violin  and  also 
banlo.  and  thus  became  acquainted  with 
others,  who,  like  myself,  performed  here 
and  there  throughout  the  city.  In'  the 
spring  of  1843  I  was  residing  at  87  Cath- 
arine street,  and  one  day  while  playing 
upon  my  violin  and  accompanied  by  Billy 
Whltlock  on  the  banjo,  the  door  opened 
and  Prank  Brower  entered.  For  awhile 
lie  Mstened,  and  then  joined  in  with  the 
bones.  We  were  delighted  with  the  Idea 
and  tbc  music,  and  were  again  going 
through  our  performance,  when  Dick 
Pelham  entered,  and,  with  hla  tambour- 
ine, th«  fourth  man  joined  In  this  Im- 
promptu rehearsal.  Struck  by  this  Idea. 
Wo  four  began  a  series  of  rehearsals, 
which  ended  In  forming  a  partnership. 
Hve  performed  In  several  places,  but  the 
first  .ppcarance  in  public  was  made  at 
the  Chatham  Theatre  and  for  the  benefit, 
of  I.;  ■!'  F  e]h„m.  We  gave  concerts  in  the 
•Prem  t  Temple,  Boston,  for  six  weeks, 
the  new  amusement,  'Minstrels.'  going 
like  wildfire.  We  then  sailed  for  England, 
•giving  <  oneerts  in  Liverpool,  Birming- 
ham <nd  Manchester  to  Immense  busi- 
ness. We  opened  In  the  Adelphl  Theatre, 
London.  In  connection  with  Professor  An- 
derson, the  wizard.  •  •  *  Upon  our  first 
appearance  in  London,  and  just  as  we 
came  upon  the  stage,  a  person  rose  In  the 
audler/e  and  shouted  to  ua:  'Go  home! 
Go  home  find  pay  your  honest  debts:-  Let 
me  explain  that  Pennsylvania  hod  re- 
pudiated some  debt,  and  we,  as  Ameri- 
cans, were  being  held  to  account  for  It. 
The  person  was  put  out  of  the  theatre 
and  thH  minstrels  proceeded." 
^lliiw  Dixie  G'umo  to  be  Written. 

'•ii''5vMOW  we  como  to  now  "Dixie"  was 
i^^V.  UJw.  mwy,  M0tha£~  JUlQC*»a&| 

y IT  was  um  HMUUM  UlllffrWWW 

'8eldom.  Indeed,  do  the  Idlers  of  thlfi 

/Id   contribute   to   Its    treasures.     It   Is 

Ac  busy  people  out  of  whom  the  frlctloo 

of  everyday  life  strikes  the  spark  of  geV 

tilus. 

In  1859  rcmmett  was  a  member  of  Bry» 
pnt's  Minstrels,  472  Broadway,  New  York^ 
One  Snturday  evening,  as  he  was  depart- 
ing for  home  at  the  close  of  the  entertain- 
ment, he  was  hailed  by  "Jerry"  Bryants 
•who  asked  him  to  compose  a  "walk- 
around.'"  with  a  "hooray  chorus,"  ready 
for  the  Monday  morning  rehearsal.  The 
t^ms  of  Emmett's  engagement  with  Bry« 
ant  bound  him  to  compose  such  thing* 
whenever  new  ones  became  requisite.' 
Emmett  replied  that  the  time  allotted, 
Mm  was  short,  but  he  would  do  his  best. 
The  next  day  our  beloved  "Dixie  Land" 
came  Into  existence.  The  words  have  been 
transcribed  inaccurately  from  time  to 
time,  but  the  original  version  Is.  Identical 
with  that  which  we  have  grown  familiar 

With: 
"I  wish  1  w::s  In  de  land  ob.  cbttpn; 
Old  times  dar  am  not  soon  forgotten. 
Look  away!  look  away  I  look  away,  Dixie 

land ! 
,In  Dixie  lnnd.  whar  I  was  born  In, 
So  early  one  frosty  mornln", 
book  away!  look  away!  look  away,  Dixie 


Innrt!" 

An    immeitlntr    9«reeim% 

The  sonjr  delight  nl  Hie  other  members 
■f  the  troupe  when  produced  tit  th?  Mon- 
ti y  rehearsal,  and  It  met  with  ;«  warm  r»- 
%ptton  from  the  audience  that  evening. 
i  Is  said  that  half  the  number  of  those 
nsent  went  home  humming  "Dixie 
fed."  ' 

The  New  York  Clipper,  .devoted  to  tb« 
thentrtcsT"tWW«Milon(  vi<nt«u  ^tne  worns 
of   hixlf  on  the  front  p.igo  of  It*   isHtie, 
January  2«,  Mm.  duly  crediting  their  r<u- 
thorshlp   to  TCmmotl.     This   Is  Important* 
been  use,  the  honor  of  .-<al<l  authorship  has 
bven  .lisputod  with  him  by  more  than  one 
claimant.    Ky  one  authority  It  Is  solemn- 
ly stated  as  being  nctunlly  true  that  the 
original  words  of  the  song  were  written 
by  <«<neral  Albert  Pike,  who  was  born  In 
Boston,  December  29,  J8W,   fought  In  the 
Mexican     War    and    on    the  Confederate 
side  through   the  Civil  War,   and  In  M«8 
oof  tied  down  to  law  In  Washington.     It 
la  probable,  to  Judge  from  the  fiery  lan- 
gu&ge  of  Oeneral  Pike's  poem,  as  In  the 
stanzas   given   below,   that   the   Souther)) 
soldier    Htrng   hln    words    to    the    tune   of 
"Dixie,"  thus  confusing-  biographers: 
"Southrons,  hear  your  country  call  you, 
ITpl  lest  worse  than  death  befall  youl 
To  arms,  to  arms,  to  arms,  In  Dixie! 
Lo,  all  the  beacon  flres  are  lighted! 
Lei  a'.l  our  hearts  be  now  united; 

To  arms,  etc. 
"Hear  the  Northern  thunders  mutter; 
Northern  flags  in  South  winds  flutter; 

To  arms,  etc. 
Send  them  back  your  fierce  defiance, 
Stamp  upon  the  cursed  alliance. 
To  arms,"  etc. 

A  variety  of  picturesque  ditties  such 
as  the  one  about  "We'll  Hang  Abe  Lin- 
coln to  a  Sour  Apple  Tree,"  "Hooray, 
Hooray  for  Dixie,"  were  adapted  to  the 
Irresistible  swing  of  the  tune  and  con- 
verted into  war  songs  by  the  Southerners. 
Emmett  himself  explains  his  choice  of 
a  theme  In  this  way:  Frequently  members 
of  minstrel  troupes,  travelling  In  the  North, 
would  exclaim,  when«feellng  the  pinch  of 
Northern  frosts:  "I  wish  I  was  In  Dixie," 
Dixie,  of  course,  being  the  name  used 
to  typify  the  States  south  of  Mason  and 
Dixon's  llne(  This  expression,  which  be- 
came quite  a  saying  among  minstrel 
troupes,  suggested  the  words  of  this  song, 
and  the  first  bar  or  two  of  the  air  gave 
the  key  to  the  rest. 

Another  Ingenious  but  Incorrect  explan- 
ation 6f  the  theme  is  given  by  some 
writers,  who  affirm  that  "Dixie"  refers 
to  a  slave  owner,  who  spelt  his  name 
"Dixy."  and"  that  It  Is  the  song  ol  a  slave 
yearning  for  his  old  home,  the  first  line 
of  which  should  run: 

"I  wish  I  was  with  Dixy." 
The-  same  authority  seeks  to  deprive 
Emmett  of  the  honor  due  him  by  claim- 
in  ir  that  the  tune  Is  an  old  Northern  ne- 
gro air,  whose  origin  Is  as  vague  as  most 
traditions  of  the  race.  But  Emmett's 
friends  at  various  times  have  staunchly 
defended  his  rights,  and,  fortunately,  there 
are  now  persons  living  who  remember  well 
the  circumstances  under  which  the  song 
was  written. 

At  the  time  of  the  breaking  out  of  the 
Civil  War  a  new  march  and  war  song 
were  needed  to  Introduce  In  a  spectacular 
performance  given  In  New  Orleans.  Thli 
in  said  to  hnve  been  the  occasion  when 
Mr.  John  Wood  played  In  "Pocahontas." 
fty  John  Brougham,  Carlo,  the  brother  of 
Adellna  Pattl.  leading  the  orchestra.  At 
all  events.  "Dixie"  was  seized  upon  as  the 
thing  required.  Its  martial  beat  echoed 
the  spirit  of  the  times  and  Its  title  en- 
deared It  to  Southern  hearts.  It  rang  In 
music  halls.  It  was  hummed  on  the  streets. 
It  resounded  In  the  home  circle.   It  was 


105 

wafted  to  the  battle  fields,  caught  up  by 
the  Confederacy,  and,  ringing  through  the 
Rebel  ranks,  "made  many  a  battle  harder 
for  the  Northern  men,"  aa  one  writer  puts 
It. 

At  the  time  of  the  war  It  was  considered 
almost  (treasonable  to  sing  it  this,  side  of 
Mason  and  Dixon's  line,  and  It  Is  even 
said,  though  not  sufficiently  corroborated 
to  be  accepted  without  question,  that  Em- 
mett's  loyalty  to  the  Union  was  criticised, 
although  the  song  was  written  two  years 
before  the  war,  and  that  one  truculent 
Maine  editor  fished  out  of  the  depths  of 
hla  Ink  well  the  epithet,  "Secesh,"  and 
hurled  It  at  the  composer,  recommending 
him  to  summary  and  condign  punishment. 
Whether  Emmett  reaped  blame  of  this 
sort  or  not,  it  is  certain  that  he  reaped  no 
other  '  reward.  The  publlo  appropriated 
"Dixie,"  withholding  from  him  much  of 
praise  and  all  pecuniary  benefit 

With  the  reunion  of  North  and  South 
the  song  was  restored  to  Its  place  In  the 
affections  of  i  the  nation.  Lincoln  is  re- 
ported to-  have  considered  it  "captured"— 
surely  the  best  capture  made  in  the  war. 

And  now  an  old  man  sits,  neglected  and 
alone,  by  his  hearthstone  In  Ohio;  and 
wherever  patriotic  assemblages  gather 
the  song  he  created  echoes  and  re-echoes, 
as  It  will  do  through  generations  .yet  to 
come,  stirring  the  hearts  of  the  people 
with  a  strange  fervor  and  stimulating  to 
a  passion  devotion  to  the  Stars  and  Stripes. 
BEATRICE  CLAYTON. 


MY.  T!ii>er«»n*a  Dntth. 
The  death  of  Mr.  Emerson,  'following  only  a 
few  weeks  after  that  of  Mr.  Longfellow,  is  a 
painful  reminder  of  the  rapidity  with  which  the 
oMi'T  ebeol  of  American  authors,  the  men  who 
I icj  .;u  to  write,  when  American  liic.atnre  was 
beginning  to  take  shape,  and  who  have  exerted 
a  formative  Influence  noi  only  upori  literature, 
but.  upon  the  life  and  thought  of  the  people,  are 
pa'-iii  s  away.  Whittior,  Holmes  and  Ix>well 
amc.nc  ihe  fioets,  Bancroft  amoug  prose  writers, 
nml  W'inthrop  an<l  Phillips  among  the  great 
orators  of  the  platform,  arc  loft  to  us,  bnt  Low- 
ell Is  thn  only  one  of  these  who  has  not  passed 
(ho  boundary  of  three  score  years  and  ton;  and 
the  departure  of  Emerson  not  only  recalls  old 
sorrows,  but  suggests  other  losses  which  are  to 

The  death  of  Emerson  does  not  toncli  with 
grief  so  wide  a  circle  as  did  that  of  Longfellow. 
His  influence  was  not  diroctly  foK  by  the  masses 
of  people.  There  was  something  deterrent 
about  the  thought-compelling  quality  of  his 
books,  to  many  minds:  there  was  a  subtlety 
about  his  methods  of  thought,  and  an  absence  of 
seqnenco  i;ud  arrangement  In  his  manner  of 
grouping  ideas,  which  made  it  by  no  means  easy 
for  an  untrained  and  impatient  reader  to  follow 
him.  Ho.  was  an  excellent,  author  to  read  by 
detached  passages;  all  over  his  writings'  there 
are  sentences  that  sparkle  with  brilliancy,  and 
there  are  seed-thoughts  which  are  wondrously 
fruitful  If  they  do  but  find  congenial  soil.  But 
it  requires  a  pretty  robust  mind  to  read  page 
after  page,  essay  after  essay,  of  his  writings, 
n  it.liutit  any  sense  of  weariness.  As  Alcott  aptly 
expressed  It,  his  logic  was  tbe  logic  of 
a  Ralavy  of  stars.  There  was  brilliancy 
there—  a  flashing  and  dazzling  brilliancy  often, 
like  that  of  the  stars,  as  seen  through  a  rarer 
and  clearer  atmosphere  than  that  through  which 
we  ordinarily  view  them,  but  It  was  a  bril- 
liancy which  defied  analysis  and  arrangement. 
Nor  was  It  only  his  subtle  qualities  of  thonght 
and  style  which  kept  bis  writings  from  finding 
a  place  among  the  familiar  books  of  average 
readers;  the  subjects  with  which  he  dealt 
were  often  lofty  and  abstrnse,   and    removed 


from  the  ordinary  thonght  of  men. 

When  the  final  estimate  comes  to  be  made  np 

upon  Mr.  Emerson's  work  and  the  results  of 

it,  wn  are  quite  confident  it  will  be  fonnd  that 

the  indirect  influence  which   it  has  exerted  has 

been  not  only  vastly  wider  but  more  potent  than 

the  direct.    It  is  an  Influence  which  has  been 

felt  by  many  minds  who  were  quite  unaware 

from  what  source  It  came;  and  this  because  it 

was  a  re  flex  Influence,  reaching  them  by  radia- 

tm,  as  it  were,  from  other  muds  which  wen 

jrectly    touched  by    Mr.  Emerson's   thought. 

jr.  Emorson's  work  has  been  the  fructifying 

[some  of  the  noblest  minds  of  his  generation, 

id  through  the  operations  of  these  muds,  and 

!  others  touched  by  these  la  turn,  ha  has  made 

I  impress  npon  many  people  to  whom  he  him- 

|f  was  hardly  more  than  a  name.    Ho  died 

inqnilly  and  painlessly,  as  a  child  might  faff 

|eep;  and  he  has  passed  to  a  more  intimate 

fcwledge  of  the  mysteries  which,  during  bU 

ptime,  engaged  his  deepest  thonght. 

■       ii   i     .— — mm  im* 


writiwq  in  TH.e  mmr  ■ 

'^T'.-      *,rt of  cimiHMtitR-  it  fV4rb   Before 
Putting  ,1  on  Paper. 

I    Dickeni  lived  >o  thoroughly  ftith.ftis  rti.-u 
*gcters  tiiaMiecoiiln  not  sleep  at  iilgftt,  anti  to 
v^eapc  tiieni  was  fctulged  to  get.uf/anu  go  out 
lor  a  -.vaik.    B»  daughter  relajri  that  a»  he 
Wro'e  ue  actiid   many   of  the   prone,  of    his 
novels,  rising  occasionally  and  pacing    the 
room,  talking  to  himself.    Thero  can  hardly 
.be  a  doubt  that  tho  most  successful  dramatists 
witness   their   plays    1:1    imagination    before 
they  aro  nut  on  the  board*,    llere  Is  probably 
tbe  secret  of  Umiclcault's  ouccoss.    He  has 
flcrrlbc  J  in  a  limuazlne  bow  ho  "makes"  a 
play  before  he  writes  it.    He  gets  the  story 
and  the  plot  and  then  the  seenei.    The  wont 
of  construction  ocean   before  he  has  put  a 
line  on  paper.    The  last  thing  of  all  Is  to  sup- 
ply tbe  dialogue,  which  ne  considers  ot  the 
least  Importance.     Alexandre    Dumas    even 
went  furth?r.    Ho  built  the  whole  play  in  his 
mind,  even  to  the  language,  before  touching 
bis  pen  and  ink.    He  relays  that  on  one  oc- 
caslon  he  had  a  drama  to  write,  anr,  as  It  was 
necessary  to  bu  quiet,  be  iook  passage  <>n  a 
yachr,  and  for  34  hours  lay  in  a  kind  of  stupor 
on  the  decic    His  mind  was  absorbed  in  the 
niece.    When  ho  got  up  ana  tooK  a  meal  tbe 
work  was  finished,    tf  e  amused  himself  for  a 
tew  days  and  tnen  returned  to  Paris,  where 
he  wrote  out  what  he  had  so  concentrated ly 
labored  upon.    Other  plats  lie  composed  In 
nils  way,  uarrylng  Ihom  abac. tn  his  head  for 
years,  ana  tnts  Is  the  explanation  of  some  ot 
those  miracles  of  composition  with  which  he 
loved  to  amaze  his  friends.    Jules  Janin  tells 
a    story.        He    was    at    a    country    house 
with    Dumas    where    there    was    a    crowd 
of   pleasure   seekers.    All   day   they    were 
hunting   ana   amusing    themselves.     About 
13     o'clock     at     night     in     the    smoKlng 
room  »hen  everybody  wntfomrortably  fagited 
out  and  half  asleep,  Dumaf,  accidentally  turn- 
ing over  some   papers  lo  his  pocket,  came 
nnou  a  letter  which  .he  nad  received  some 
•  uvs   before.     Heavens  I   ha  bad,  forgotten. 
Be   had   promised   to  write  a   piece  for   a 
friend's  benefit,  which  was  to  come  off  Imme- 
diately.   The  manuscript  must  be  In  Paris 
next  day.    Dumas  shruggea  his  shoulders. 
"Well.  It  must  be  done,"  ana  he  took  up  bis 
light  and  started  tor  the  Horary.    When  tbe 
others  came  to  breakfast  in  the  morning 
there  was  a  piece  lying  on  the  library  table, 
completed,  ana  Dumas,  who  nad  been  up  till 
dawn  over  it,  was  sleeping  late.    Here  ap- 
peared something  miracalous— -  to  Invent  tbe 
plot,  scenes  and   characters  of  a  play  and 
write  out  the  whole  In  these  few  hours,  and 
Paris  rang  with  the  feat.    Bet  it  was  a  trio*. 
Tbe  drama  had  been  in  Us  mind  lor  roonuii, 
and  mere  was  nothing  to  do  but  to  pUoe  It  en 
paper,    i  .■■■    ■  "^ 


THE  CARLYLE-EMERSON  CORRESPOND-, 
Ou^tW^     ENCE-/Unr/?<*W 

OF  the  portion  of  the  Oarlyle-Ernerson  correspond- 
ence Just  published  for  the  first  time,  the  Boston 
"Herald"  says: 

The  mutilation  of  the  "  Correspondence  of  Carlyle 
and  Emerson  "  Is  a  literary  misfortune.  There  were  Im- 
portant gaps  In  the  letters  which  could  not  be  filled  up  at 
the  time  the  correspondence  was  first  published,  and  the 
hope  that  the  letters  missing  from  It  might  be  recovered 
has  been  fulfilled  by  the  restoration  of  thirteen  letters 
written  by  Carlyle  and  four  by  Emerson.  There  are 
other  letters  still  to  turn  up,  but  comparatively  few 
spaces  in  the  correspondence  now  remain  to  be  filled.  A 
few  extracts  from  these  letters  are  here  appended,  which 
express  the  opinions  of  the  two  distinguished  corre- 
spondents and  reveal  still  further  their  friendly  relations 
with  each  other.  The  first  of  these  recovered  letters  is 
from  Carlyle  to  Emerson,  and  Is  concerned  with  what 
Carlyle  calls  "  the  boob:  business."  It  is  dated  April  13, 
1839.  He  says  of  himself:  "I  am  again  upon  the 
threshold  of  extempore  lecturing  on  '  The  Revolu- 
tions of  Modern  Europe ;'  Protestantism,  two  lectures  : 
Puritanism,  two ;  French  Revolution,  two.  I  almost 
regret  that  I  had  undertaken  this  thing  this  year  at  all, 
for  I  am  no  longer  driven  by  poverty  as  heretofore. 
Nay,  I  atn  richer  limn  I  huve  i.oea  for  ton  years,  and 
have  a  kind  of  prospect,  for  the  first  time  this  great 
while,  of  being  allowed  to  subsist  In  this  world  for  the 
future ;  a  great  blessing — perhaps  the  greatest,  when  it 
comes  as  a  novelty.  However,  I  thought  it  right  to 
keep  this  lecturing  business  open,  come  what  might.  I 
care  less  about  It  than  I  did.  It  is  not  agony  and 
wretched  trembling  to  the  marrow  of  the  hone,  as  It 
was  the  last  two  times.  I  believe,  in  spite  of  all  my 
perpetual  Indigestions  and  nervous  woes,  I  am  actually 
getting  Into  better  health  ;  the  weary  heart  of  me  Is 
quieter  ;  I  wait  In  silence  for  the  new  chapter — feeling 
truly  that  we  are  at  the  end  of  one  period  here.  I  count 
It  two  In  my  autobiography.  We  shall  see  what  the 
third  is,  if  there  be  a  third.  But  I  am  in  small  haste 
for  a  third."  A  little  later,  in  a  second  letter,  Carlyle 
recurs  to  the  lectures  In  the  following  strain  :  "There 
was  but  one  moderately  good  lecture,  the  last,  on 
'  Sansculottlsm,'  to  an  audience  mostly  Tory,  and 
rustling  with  the  beautlfullest  quality  silks  1  Two 
things  I  find  :  First,  that  I  ought  to  have  a  horse.  I  had 
only  three  incidental  rides  or  gallops,  hired  rides.  My 
Yankee  hone  Is  never  yet  purchased,  but  It  shall  be,  for 
I  cannot  live,  except  in  great  pain,  without  a  horse.  .  .  . 
But  the  second  thing  I  found  was  the  extempore  speak- 
ing, especially  in  the  way  of  lecture,  is  an  art  or  craft 
that  requires  an  apprenticeship,  which  I  have  never 
served!"  In  the  same  letter,  he  begins  to  think  that  he 
must  begin  a  book.  He  says  :  "  Books  are  the  lasting' 
thing  ;  lectures  are  like  corn  ground  Into  flour  ;  there 
are  loaves  to-day,  but  no  wheat  harvests  for  next  year. 
Rudiments  of  a  new  book  (thank  Heaven  !)  do  sometimes 
disclose  themselves  in  me.  Festina  lente.  It  ought  to 
be  better  than  the  French  Revolution  ;  I  mean  better 
written.  The  greater  part  of  that  book,  as  I  read  proof- 
sheets  of  it  In  these  weeks,  does  nothing  but  disgust  me. 
And  yet  It  was,  as  nearly  as  was  good,  the  utmost  that 
lay  in  me.  I  should  not  like  to  be  nearly  killed  by  any 
other  book.  Books,  too,  are  a  triviality.  Life  alone  Is 
great,  with  its  infinite  spaces,  its  everlasting  times,  with 
lis  death,  with  Its  heaven,  and  Its  hell  I  Ah  me  I"  In 
the  same  letter  there  is  an  opinion  of  Wordsworth  that 
is  more  favorable  than  Carlyle  was  wont  to  speak  of  him 
at  other  times :  "  Wordsworth  is  here  at  present ;  a  gar- 
rulous, rather  watery,  not  wearisome  old  man.     There 


106  is  a  freshness  as  of  brooks  and  mountain  breezes  In  him  ; 

one  says  of  him  :  Thou  art  not  great,  but  thou  art  gen- 
uine :  weU  speed  tbou." 

In  a  letter  dated  December  8,  1839,  Carlyle  speaks 
plainly  of  one  of  his  frequent  visitors:  "Poor  Miss 
Martineau  is  in  Newcastle-on-Tyne  this  winter;  sick, 
nalnf  ully.  not  dangerously ;  with  a  surgical  brother-in- 
law.  Her  meager  dlalectlcalttles  afflict  me  no  more ;  bat 
also  her  blithe  friendly  presence  cheers  me  no  more. 
We  wish  she  were  back.  This  silence,  I  calculate— 
forced  sllenco — will  do  her  much  good.  Jf  I  were* 
legislator,  I  would  order  every  man,  once  a  Veek  or  so, 
to  lock  his  lips  together,  and  utter  no  vocable  at  all  fox 
four  and- twenty  hours  ;  it  would  do  him  immense  bene- 
fit, poor  fellow  I  Such  racket  and  cackle  of  men  hear- 
say and  sincere  cant  grows  at  last  entirely  deafening, 
enough  to  drive  one  mad,  like  the  voice  of  mere  infinite 
rookeries  answering  your  voice  I    Silence,  silence  I" 

Emerson  writes  from  Concord  in  the  summer  of  1846  - 
"  I  creep  along  the  roads  and  fields  of  this  town  at  I 
have  done  from  year  to  year.  When  my  garden  is 
shamefully  overgrown  with  weeds,  I  pull  up  some  of 
them.  I  prune  my  apples  and  pears.  I  have  a  few 
friends  who  gild  many  hours  of  the  year.  I  sometimes 
write  verses."  Emerson  was  then  preparing  his  lecture 
on  "  Representative  Men,"  and  says  of  his  work:  "I 
wrote  a  deal  about  Napoleon  after  reading  a  library  of 
memoirs.  Now  I  have  Plato,  Montaigne,  and  Sweden- 
borg,  and  more  in  the  clouds  behind.  What  newa  of 
Naseby  and  Worcester?"  Carlyle  in  the  same  year 
replied,  with  a  mass  of  new  Cromwell  letters  before 
him,  that  he  was  "  sunk  deep  into  the  dust-abysses 
again." 

During  the  next  year,  1846,  Carlyle  made  a  visit  to 
Scotland,  and  thus  records  his  Impressions :  "  Thirty 
years  move  away  a  generation  of  men.  The  old  hills, 
the  old  brooks  and  houses  are  still  there ;  but  the  popu- 
lation has  marched  away,  almost  all ;  it  is  not  there  any 
more.  I  cannot  enter  into  light  talk  with  the  survivors 
and  successors ;  I  withdraw  into  silence  and  con  vein 
with  the  dumb  old  crags  rather  In  a  melancholy  and  ab- 
struse manner.  Thank  God,  my  good  old  mother  Is 
still  there  ;  old  and  frail,  but  still  young  of  heart ;  as 
young  and  strong  there,  I  think,  as  ever.  It  Is  beauti- 
ful to  see  affection  survive  where  all  else  is  submitting 
to  decay  ;  the  altar  with  its  sacred  fire  still  burning, 
when  the  outer  walls  are  all  slowly  crumbling,  material 
Fate  saying,  '  they  are  mine  1'  I  read  some  insignificant 
books,  smoked  a  great  deal  of  tobacco,  and  went  mop- 
ing about  among  the  hills  and  hollow  watercourses, 
somewhat  like  a  shade  In  hades."  In  another  letter  of 
the  same  year,  the  Chelsea  sage  says  to  Emerson  :  "  If 
you  see  Mr.  Everett,  will  you  thank  him  for  his  kind 
remembrance  of  me,  till  I  find  leisure  (as  I  have  vainly 
hoped  to  do)  to  thank  him  more  in  form  T  A  dignified, 
compact  kind;  of  man,  whom  I  remember  with  real 
pleasure.'' 

Again  he  says  :  "  Alas  !  the  speech  of  men,  especially 
the  witty  speech  of  men.js  often  afflictive  to  me;  'in 
the  wide  earth,'  I  say  sometimes  with  a  sigh,  '  there  is 
none  but  Emerson  that  responds  to  me  with  a  voice 
wholly  human  I'  All  literature,  too,  is  become,  I  cannot 
tell  you  how,  contemptible  to  me.  On  the  whole,  one's 
blessedness  is  to  do  as  Oliver  :  work  while  the  son  is 
up;  work  well,  as  if  eternities  depended  on  it;  then 
sleep— as  if  under  the  guano  mountains  of  human  stu- 
por, if  handsomely  forgotten  all  at  once,  that  latter  U 
the  handsome  thing.  I  have  often  thought  what  W. 
Shakespeare  would  say  were  he  to  sit  one  night  in  a 
'  Shakespeare  society '  and  listen  to  the  empty  twaddle 
and  other  long-eared  melody  about  him  there." 


PNBimONV.UB. 

The  Idraiitr  »f  P*»aUr  Writer*  levealed. 

Mr.  Dole,  in  hi»  "  Catalogue  of  the  Rhow- 
hegan  (Maine)  Library,"  (fives  the  following  list 
ol'Uie  pmidonvma  of  native  and  foreign  anthosW, 
no,  fines  changed  by  marriage,  anil  the  authors  of 

anonymous  books: 

AMRRtCA*   PBRtTPOKTMS. 
linl  Nttmr*. 
Charles  11.  Smith. 
Benjamin  O.  Sqaier. 
Jos  ph  A.  Scoville. 
Aenjamfn.  J  ml  in,  and  Lf- 

man  Abbott  (jointly.) 
Charles  A*tor  Hrlsted. 

CJrnrge  W.  rock. 
Henry  W.  .Shaw, 
ltov.  hanmcl  l'iike. 


AtfVttctiymt, 
Hill  Arp, 
r-nmnel  A.  Bahl, 
Walter  Barrett, 
Brnauly. 

(  orl  HenFon, 

tarrtcll  A.  Ulgly  (Can  tell 

a  big  lie), 
Josh  Killings, 
Puttn  Browne, 


Paid  Crcyton, 

Shirley  llaro, 

<}.  K.  Philander  Docsticks,  Alortlmcr,  Thomson 

rat  Contributor. 

Major  Jack  Downing, 

Fleet a, 

frank  Forester, 

Mr*.  Oilman, 

Howard  Olyndon, 

Barry  Gray, 

Orace  Greenwood* 

Harry  Cringe, 

Gall  Hamilton, 

Marlon  Iliirlnnd, 

Jennie  June 

Orpheus  C.  Kerr  (Office 

Keeker), 
Edmund  Klrke; 
Fat  LoTcngood, 
Helen  Mar, 
Ik  Marvel, 
Sotfblo  May, 
Mlrmle  Myrtle, 
Petroleum   Vesuvius 

by, 
L>r.      Oldham, 

•lories,  ' 
Oliver  Optic, 
Mile*  O'Reilly, 


J.  T.  TrowbrblKe. 

-MjJ'  Snsnn  Punning. 

"lortlnier  T 

A.  M.Urlswald. 

Knba  Smith. 

Kate  W.  Hamilton. 

H.  W.  Horlicrt. 

Mr. Ballou. 

Miss  Laura  C.  Redden. 
H.  II.  Coffin. 

Mr».  Sarah  J.  C.  Llpplncott. 
Lt.  Henry  A. Wise,  U.8.N. 
Miss  Mary  Abigail  Dodge. 
Mrs.  M.  V.  TerKane. 
Mrs.  Jennie  C.  Croly. 


Mm  Partington 
Florence  Percy 
John  I'htrnix 

Torte  Crayon, 

L.  Pylodet  (anagram), 

Srclry  Kegcster, 

JohJSass, 

foci   De     Kay  (author-  of 


R.  n.  Newell. 
J.  K.  Gilmore. 
Captain  G.  Harris, 
Mrs.  D.  V.  M.  Walker. 
Donald  O.  Mitchell. 
Miss  R.  8.  Clarke. 
M  iss  A noa  L.  Johnson . 
Nas- 

D.  B.  Locke. 
Of    Grey-     T    * 

Caleb  8.  Henry,  LX.  D. 

Wm.  T.  Adams. 

Colonel  Chaflas   O.    Hal- 

pine. 
».  P.  Sjiillaber. 
MrffAkcra. 
Captain  George  H.  Derby. 

rHfcernTD.  P.  Strother. 
F.  Leypoldt. 
Mrs.  O.  J.  Victor. 
Mr. Foxcroft. 


"Canctuckey"), 
Ethan  Spike, 
Talvi, 

Timothy  Tltcomb, 
Trust*  (anagram), 

Mark  Twain, 

A  Veteran  Observer 
Artemus  Ward, 
Blythe  White,  Jr., 


(Charles  D.  Kirk. 
.Matthew  F.  Whittles 
Mrs.    B.    Robinson.    (The- 
'    rese  A.  L.  Von  Jakob.) 
Joslah  G.  Holland,  Ml   Bv 
Miss      Elizabeth      Stuart 

VhJfm,  - 

Bam  uel  L.  Clemens. 
E.  D.  Mansfield. , 
Charles  F.  Brown. 
Solon  (Beblnson. 


A.  L.  O. 

England), 
Cnthbert  Bed*, 
E.  Berger,     . 
Bon  (faultier. 

Cetwitry    Parson,   ' 

H.  B.  " 
George  Eliot, 

Holme  Lee, 

Jfrt-Msikharo, 

jfwtn  Meredith, 

Hf^-ulseMuhtbsch, 

•Vimrod, 

Old  Humphrey, 


rOMIOR  niUDORTHI. 
E,    (A   Lady   of 


■A,   X. 


MisiThsrlotte  Tncker. 
Ber.'Kdward  Bradley. 
Miss  Elisabeth  Sbepard. 
Prof.   W.    E.   At-Urna  and 
Theodore  Martin. 

\Bev.  A.  K.  H.  Boyd. 
Mrs.    Marian  J.   (Evans) 

Lewes. 
Mrs.  Harriett  Parr. 
Mrs.  Elizabeth  Penrose. 
Bon.  Edward  B.  B.  Ly  tton. 
Mrs.  Clara  Maodfc 
Charles  J.  Anneritfv 
troorge  Mosjndge. 


107 

AH0NYM0U8  BOOKS   AND   THBIR   AUTHOM. 

Alchemy  and  the  Alcne- 
ralrta;  also, 

Christ  the  Pplrit,- 

"Colln  Clout  's  Come 
Home  Again"  Ex- 
plained, 

Red  Book  of  Apptn, 

SwedonWc  RslirrmrtfcMiilnr  OencroT   Ethan    A 
Phllos.«ph«r;  lUtchcoeJm 

Eire  Homo,  PsJol.  MctryTfttt  q»xry)t 

Ecce  Cccliim,  Resw  E.  F.  Bitrr/ 

Erring,  yet  N<wiley  rssSe-  F:  Reed,  Jr. 

I'nith  Gartncy'sirlrlrrosd,  Mrs.  A.  D.  T.  Whltnsy. 
Household    ot  Sir   Thomas 

Moore :  also.  Journal'  of 

Mary  PowelIr  Ml«*-*nne  Mstrrtng. 

The  Lampllghtsr,  Miss  M.  8.  Commtn* 

Lyrics  by  the  letter  H.,      Col.Chsa.  G.  Halplne^ 
TheVew  Timothy,  EevI  W.  M.  Baker. 

Rutledge,  Miss  M,  Cole. 

Sch<>nlx<r£-rottA  FonjUlf».  Xri- Elizabeth  Cberiesi 
Hiilrll  of  Peventy-Six,  M«t.  D.  8.  Cuttls. 

Tnlvs  ot  the  Genii,  TWrtfswas*  Ridley1. 

A  Trip  to  Catch  a  Sun  nem»32ls»  M.  A,  Plaueh  «,  after' 
ward  Mrs.  Henry  Mi«k- 


5^>rge8and, 


Amsntlne    Luclle   Atrrore 
(Dupln  Dndevant^ 
January  Searle,  Geo.  S.  Phillips. 

Arthur  Sketchley,  George  Rose.  .^^. 

Samuel  Slick,  Judge  Thos.  C.  HalltrartOB. 

Stonebenge,  John  H.  Walsh.   ^ 

Xacklel,  Llent.  RJchard  J.  Morrison. 

HAMW  CHAITOID  »T  otARMAHl. 
Charlotte  Bronte,  Mr*.  HlehoUa. 

Augusta  J.  Evans,  Mrs.  Wlleon.^^ 

Marian  J.  Evans,  Mrs.  O.  H.  Lewes. 

Caroline  Fry,  Mrs.  Wltoon. 

Dinah  Muloeh,  Mrs.  Cralk. 

Harriet  Prescott,  Mr*.  R.  O.  BpoBbrd. 


Wind  and  Whirlwind,'      -5n#4«e  Welly*  ElfloU 

MohArT  ^'wferr    /fo/Yie. 

Tbe  olt-repeated  orltloUm  on  Mrne.  Pattil" 
singing  the  «•  Inevitable "  "Home,  Hvreet 
Home,"  1*  stoutly  resented  by  the  great 
artist.  Mme.  Paul  delares  that  she  would 
not  sing  ono  song  for  twenty  year*  It  the 
public  did  not  demand  It,    Bhe  says: 

"I  learned  the  song  years  ago  and  never 
dreamed  that  X  would  have  to  sing  lt  tor 
yeurs  and  years,  but,  after  I  bad  once  sung 
it,  nowhere  could  1  appear  but  the  publlo 
demanded  it,  particularly  here  In  America. 
I  have  tried  again  and  again  to  substitute 
other  songs,  and  it  is  absurd  to  suppose  that 
I  haven't  songs  enough  In  my  repertory  to 
give  an  evening'*  entertainment  without 
•  Home,  Sweet  Home.'  But  every  time  I 
nave  heard  people  all  over  the  bouse  demand 
the  old-time  melody.  Why  should  I  not 
try  to  please  my  publlo  1  Indeed,  I  would 
never  sing  U  again  if  only  onoo  I  did  not 
bear  the  thunder  of  applause  whenever  the 
first  notes  ot  the  Introduction  are  heard.  Of 
course,  I  am  encouraged.  There  never  was 
m  singer  who  was  not  encouraged  and  borne 
on  tb*  very  wings  of  triumph  and  ecstucy 
by  hearing  gruut  applause. 

Ml  also  couieH*  that  I  like  to  sing  it, 
and  I  never  grow  tired  of  the  words  or  tha 
simple  melody.  Often  on  the  spar  of  the 
moment  I  would  like  to  add  a  touch  here  or 
there,  but  X  refralu,  knowing  that  Just  Us 
simplicity  is  what  touches  an  audience,  and 
I  am  not  above  saying  that  it  always  touches 
me.  X  am  snre  every  one  will  do  me  this 
Jnstlo*  after  due  consideration.  X  have  sung 
many  number*  in  many  programmes,  have 
given  numerous  song*  of  ail  style*  and  all 
descriptions,  and  X  mar  add,  without  ego- 
tism, with  great  aaoceaa ;  therefore,  I  feel  that 
I  sua  doing  lust  the  right  tbing  when  I  give 
the  public  J  ust  what  It  waata.  "-Nm  Hot* 

Chronology   of    Ottef  'Justice*. 

Altogether  there  have  been  but  Ire 
Chief  Justices  of  the- Uni W  States  Sm 
preme  Court  -The  first  was  John^Sf  ty, 
of  New  York,  who  was  appointed  9e  pi. 
26,  1789,  and  .who  resigned  in  1794*tc  go 
to  Great  Britain.  In  December,  18  X), 
he  declined  a  reappointment,  an<fldtea 
May  17,  1829..  JoJmBittledge,  of  South 
Carolina,  was  -  appointed  to  *.',  thh 
office  by  the  President,  July  1, 
1795.  bnt  the  Senate  refused  to  confirm 
the  appointment.  William  CoahingJ  <*f 
Massachusetts,  declined  an  appointment 
Jan.  27,  1796,  and  March  4,  of  that 
year,    Oliver     Ellsworth,  '•    of      Con- 


necticut, received  the  appointment.  Me 
resigned  in  1800  on  account  of  his  health. 
John  Marshall,  of  Virginia,  occupied  the 
office  from  Jan.  81,  1801,  to  July  6» 
1835,  when*  he  died.  Dee.  ."28,  ■  1885, 
Soger  B.  Taney  took  the  bench,  which 
he  held  until  his  death,  in  October, 
1864,  and  on  Dee;  8,  1864,  Salmon  P. 
Chase  succeeded  him. 


NOVELS. 

'«•«  They  May  Possibly  Be   Matte   br 
Bern  Noweltata. 

|    Speaking  ot  Mr.  Julian   Hawthorne's  Va*. 
tar  lecture,  "How  Novel*  Are  Made."  the 
London  News  sayti   He  thinks  that  a  man  at 
genius— nobody  can  be  offended  by  the  men- 
tion o(  Shakespeare  at  an  example— could  not 
tell  how  bis  works  got ,  written,   while  tha 
author  of  a  shilling  story  coula  produce  bis 
note  books,  plots,  stylographlo  pan  and  ex- 
plain  all   his   process.     Bat   we   venture  to 
think  that  the  difference  Is  only  a-  dlflereuo* 
ot  decree.    ShaKeipeiajv  could  have  said.  Jtttt 
as  easily  as  the  autnor  of  -rue  Blaek  Brtgan. 
tine."  -Oh.  I  Just  took  The  History  of  Ham- 
biei"'  (or  the  old  Kngil-h  play  about  Hamlet), 
"and  faked  lt  about  a  bit,  and  gave  Burba** 
pleutv  of  fat,  you  know."  In  some  snob  simple 
•da    Giulish   terms    would    William.    II    be 
could  answer,  tell  us  how  be  wrote  "Hamlet." 
Ana  really  tne  shilling  novelist  ean  say  no 
more.    He  met  an  Incident  In  real  life,  or  In  a 
hook,  or  In  a  pap.-r.  and  be  developed  it,  and 
worked  In  the  results  of  Ills  tnought  and  ex- 
perience, such  as  uiey   were.    Ae  tar  as  the 
Author   know,  the  process  of  composition  is 
much  the  same  always,  though  a  tow  induUe 
luecoeniric  hanlis;  and  Mr.  Hswi borne  him- 
self  is  s.i  la  <o  have  ouce  Written  for  a  pro- 
digious unhesru  of  number  of  boors  at  one 
sititnir.    They  pick  up  idea*  «s  they  go  on, 
and   in   bis  new  letters  we  learn  now  Mr. 
Thackeray     selected     notions     for      "Pen- 
dennls"      from      his      dally      Hie,      even 
while      that     work    was    coming    oat    in 
mon'hiy   n umbers.      Nor    do    any    author* 
know  exnctlv  what  th*-y  ere  going  to  say  when 
they  ■•It  down  to  *rlie.    All  pens,  though  the 
penmakt-rs  are  unaware  ot  it.  have  familiar 
spirits  resident  in  them,  whleb  Wnlsper  Ideas 
to  the     uiiior    as   tie    koos   on.    He  nt-ver 
dren inea  of  these  Ideas  till  ne  had  Hie  magical 
pen  in  bis  hand,  tne  pen  murmurs  insm,  and 
he  accepts  tiiein,  iind  often  (like  Thsekeray 
when   he   made  Becky  admire  Bawdun  for 
neauog  Lord   Steyue)    be    wonders  at   hi* 
own   cleverness.    It    Is   not   in*   own,   it   1* 
g.ven  to  him  irom  without,  ne  feels,  and  that 
is  why  he  can  never  explain  "bow  it  I*  don*.'* 
Or.  It  this  theory  of  ihe  lum    ot  the  peu   be 
•couied,    *e   ouppose   that     .ie   Drain   »ieis 
neaied.  excited,  borne  above  itself,  and  so, 
when  the  brain  cools  down,  the  autnor  be- 
o  imes  a  commonplace  mortal,  and   forgets 
bow  ne  got  Into  fairyland,     inert-fore,  iUoT 
never  can  explMo  how  their  work*  are  writ* 
leu,  though,  periiaps,  they  could  often  trace 
bank.if  ibey  cared,  the  steps  ot  the  associ- 
ation of  ide  is. 

Apr -ir.-nii y,  novelists  sothetlme*  begin  with 
aaetol  ch  racters,  and  think  over  tiietn  till 
uiey  begin  to  move  and  act,  as  the  table 
moves  if  people  sit  round  lt  with  their  flonei  s 
on  it.  In  tuat  way,  perhaps,  "Vnnity  Fair" 
was  tnveu  ed.  Thackeray  had  a  Beck  v  in  ins 
mind,  and  be  eo  oo*ed.  Emmy  out  ot  a  col- 
lection of  living  models.  Theti,  perhaps,  ha 
sei  to  work  wondering  how  these  ladies 
would  act  and  re.,ct  ou  e.iou  other's  fortunes. 
Then  more  queer  cbarac  ere— old  Sir  Pitt, 
oil  Miss  Cra  ley.  tLe  notorlou-  L>ord 
bteyne  aqd  »o  on— insisted  on  Joining 
tne  uauoe.  But-  there  is  no  puzzle  to 
be  explained,  no  astonishing  eliuatiun  to  be 
accounted  for,  as  In  novels  of  tbe  type  of 
Uab«'  Inu' ».  Another  mode  of  birth,  w  e  mav 
eobjexture,  was  that  of  "Bleax  House." 
Olckeas  "-:mi  to  have  *atd  to  himself,  bow 
let  us  hare  a  ding  at  some  national  abuse,  and 
be  tound  that  yreat  paloable  cookahy,  tne 
court  or  ccancery  before  him.    So  the  story 

tl.ft    Ifl    u,.  r    '.irrh   Ih.   Lffll.   Af         Hon/.u...        m.*.   .■■  — 


bad  to  set  forth  the  evils  of  cbanoery,  as  dis- 
played In  the  sorrows  ot  a  set  ot  woruty  rulued 
people.  Then  L-iuh  Hunt  came  In  the 
author's  wav,  and  nromptly  Mr.  Harold 
Skiinno'o     was     devised,    and    Joinea     tne 


dwi'-o.  and  so  od.  Probably  cheap  nov- 
el* of  murder  and  mystery  are 
writ .r-i  oy  acvi-me  »  strange  sltUAiloa.  and 
working  back  from  that,  to  Invent  ways  In 
wwcr-  h  miL'.rii  nav«  happened.  Ion  intro- 
duce «.  ueniletnan  who  Audi  the  lira  smoking 
drcMrtfui'v  m  br?akta*t.  tie  examines  the 
ehtnuev,  and  finds  In  it  lor  body,  uead  down- 
wards, ot  a  lovely  utrl  ot  is.  bow  In  the 
world  did  she  ge  there?  You  work  hack  mi 
you  nave  Invented  a  plausible  throrT  <>t  tbo 
whimsical  cucurostance,  and  mat  theory  is 
.your  novel.  O.iborlau  of  on  worked 
bac  •  as  tar  as  tbe  revolu  Ion,  or 
the  edle'  ot  Nante«.  it  not  the 
crusade  .  before  be  coul  i  get  room  to  turn 
rou  d  in.  And  no  wonder,  for,  If  yon  will  in- 
troduce a  duke  shooting  all  Urn  company  in  a 
•iinurbau  pot  bouse,  bis  motive*,  if  honor* 
able,  must  b«  as  "remot  "  *s  tbu  Intentions 
vt  the  young  lover  In  the  'lory.  Any  n<  vellst 
ean  tell  us  u»niur->  like  this  about  tils  art,  Ju-t 
as  Tllfonhll*-  Uauiler  told  KOtue  one  th.ti.ae 
wrote  ti:  •:>■ f,  buicK  nil  eroea  lux*,  to  divert 
and  c'l-r-  his  labors.  "Wbeu  v«u  r>*uch  iho 
sixth  -tt'..  y  »■  shall  try  the  red  iok,"  ho 
woum  'uy  '-■'  ii'iitseif.  and  found  it  a 
■areas  comfort— as,  lud~ed.  It  Is.  l)ut  riieuoh- 
lle  d '  t  ii"'  K«t  h's  style  iroin  his  colored  Inks, 
OnrHba'ion-are  Ms  Ifauilet  from  ••The  HIv 
tory  <>t  HawWet"  !'r<>babi\  "lb-  oommon 
steu'if.i'.'  rtnuce,"  as  Milton  says,  ot  the 
period,  sci'u.micd  timi  siiMkusueara  w;«*  a 
Uilef.  aod  'hat  ani  <  r  ■  oouid  plagiarize  the 
"History  nt  tl  millet."  ittit  the  ■in.-.cy  never 
Hid  »"  h!nj»**ir.  n<;t  'ltd  Ills  irlenu..  am!  only 
iraroe'l  |ruoi>'t>  il!;«  i,'r.  Puroivhll  know  even 
tbe  natix  ■  •:'■  these  >i,".-:tt  awl  virnlcul  ob;eu. 

rithis. 


whittier. 

The  death  of  Whittier  takes  away  onoswbo 
Bad  been  for  more  than  sixty  years  In  close 
«mipanlonshlp  with  the  American  people. 
This  courpaaloosbra  existed  la  spite  of  the 
tact  that  In  early  life  he  differed  sharply 
with  moat  ot  his  ooTrutryrnen.  '  feat  never* 
ftheless  he  was  always  with  them,  though 
often  not  of  them.  Unrecognized  by  them  at 
first,  he  voiced  their  deep  moral  sense  when 
partisanship  so  obscured  it  that  their 
Own  utterance  ot  "If*  was  harsh  and 
distorted.  His  muse  than  spoke  tbe, 
words  of  indignant  remonstrance.  To 
tnany  readers,  of  the 'present  generation, 
these  angry  polemics,  expressive  as  they  are 
Of  a  noble  scorn  of  the  meanness  and  in  jusv 
ttce  of  slavery,  have  their  chief  value  as  no-' 
litical  records  in  verse,  as  rhythmical  history. 
Bad  Whittle?  never  essayed  any  other  strain, 
these  verses  might  have  become  only  a  part 
of  the  literature  of  the  great  anti-slavery 
struggle.  Strong  as  Whittier  was  la  donas. 
elation  ot  wrong,  ho  was  yet  stronger,  and 
infinitely  more  sweet.  In  the  expression  of  an 
overflowing  love  of  his  fellow  men, 
of  a  kindness  that  comprehended 
all  things,  both  great  and  small,  in 
Its  wishes,  and  of  a  pathos  that  had  la  it 
nothing  of  pessimism.  Whittier  the  moral 
teacher  spoke  in  his  political  poems ;  it  is , in 
this  ballads  of  Mew  England  Ufa  and  legends 
that  Whittier  the  poet  finds  the  truest  ex- 
pression of  his  kindly  genius.  Bis  buoyant, 
hopeful  nature  breathed  through  all  his  writ- 
ings and  made  thorn  the  most  Inspiring  and 
helpful  of  popular  poetry,  for  he  was  essen- 
tially a  popular  poot.  His  popularity  was 
honorable  both  to  his  readers  and  himself,  as 
It  conclusively  proved  that  a  poet  can  be 
lofty  in  his  ideals,  chaste  in  his  language, 
artistic  in  verse,  and  yet  win  to  himself  not 
merely  those,  who  read  In  a  spirit 
of  critical  appreciation,  bat  all  who 
yearn  for  a  bettering  ot  tbo  lot  of 
mankind  on  earth.  No  American  poet 
ha*  had  a  wider  public  thaa  Whittier,  for 
•he  reason  that  no  American  poet  has 
{written  verso  that  entered  so  much  into  the 


108 

-evory  day  llfo  of  the  American  people. 
Whittier  understood  the  American  people 
better  than  any  of  his  contemporaries  and 
addressed  himself  directly  to  them. 
I  To  the  public  there  have  always  been 
.two  Whittiers,  Whittier  the  poet  and 
.Wbitt.lrr  the  man.  There  has  been  no 
-contradiction  between  them  and  both  have 
Won  loved  by  tbe  people  who  learned  to 
know  tbo  man  through  the  poet.  To  the 
Whole  people,  not  merely  to  the  student  in 
his  study,  but  to  the  workers  in  the  shop 
and  factory  as  well,  Whittier  came  to  be  an 
Old  and  vory  dear  friend,  to  be  loved  and 
cherished  as  ono  who  had  been  prophet, 
up"'-  Mi ,  and  pastor. 

Tho  death  of  Whittier  leaves  Dr.  Holmes 
the  last  survivor  of  the  American  poets  who 
have  achieved  renown.  The  stare  of  the 
fctootlcat  firmament  have  now  been  reduoed 
to  one,  and  there  are  no  signs  -of  the 
-rising  of  a  new  constellation.  There  are  por- 
tmps  dimly  seen,  faintly  glittering  nebu- 
lae, hut  ot  the  coming  of  a  star  of  the  first 
magnitude,  no  token.  Apparently  America 
is  entering  into  a  period  of  twilight  in 
poetry,  which,  let  us  hope,  will  com*  before 
the  awakening  of  a  yet  brighter  day. 


music  and  prayer,  but  loving  one's  neigh* 
bor  and  dolus  one's  wboie  duty  as  a  man. 
Wblttler's  religion  is  a  religion  of  morality, 
a  religion  tor  reformers.  •  <Tbe  love  of 
God,"  he  said,  ••la  tbe  lore  of  good," 

Whittier' a  influence  will  go  on;  be  la  for 
liberty,  for  right  everywhere;  be  la  with 
those  wbo  would  give  to  woman  "tbe  rights 
and  'Sutler:  pledged  to|all;"  wltb  those  wbo 
would  sparo  "the  tax  upon  a  poor  man's 
food;"  villi  those  wonld  "to  labor  full  re- 
quital make." 


WHITTIER  A3  A  HaRTIAL  POXT. 
Although  Whittier  was  bora  a  Quaker  and 
-Hang  to  the  faith  of  Bis  fathers  all4  bis  life, 
there  are  la  bis  poetry  passage*  a)  full  of 
martial  ardor  as  anyto  be  t otmctla*  tbe  versos 
of  the  cavalier'  poets^  Tbe  Qaakar  rule, 
Charles)  I*mh  to  tbe  c/>utn«ryIr  ddiji  eot  "the 
human  feeling  cool,-l'  tmd  tho  puMsuonhip  of 
troth,  the  honest  'hatred  of  wnoft  and  la- 
A°literary  estimate  of  Whittier  Is  out  of  JustlcAas  easily  '.enter  the  rhilftsn*  mood 
placo  bere.  It  muy  be  questioned,  Indeed,  with  Quakers' as  with  .  follownpa  ei  other 
whether.  In  his  case  tbe  roan  did  not  over-  creeds.  General  Greene  sVas  bote  a,  Quaker, 
abadow  tbe  poeu  He  himself  said ^th.i .he  d  H  \  {.miliar  .instance1  ^  political 
seta  higher  value  on  bis  namn  as  appended  ~\   ^  ,  ,TT       ^?    ,.",      . 

tothe  Anti-Slavery  Declaration  of  18JW  than  eouvictlon*  carrying  a,  man  beyond  the 
on  tbe  title  page  oi  any  rook,  it  Is  bard  for  restrictions "-  ot  creed.  v  We  '  doubt  if 
os  to  realize  the  excitement  caused  by  tbo  Whittier  ever  thought  of  Grreeno'a  coo- 
duct  as  meriting  very  severe  censure.  At  all 
events,  there  are  lines  In  Whittier  that  are 


WHITTIER  AS  A  MORAL  INFLUENCE. 

An  Analysis  of  the  Poet's  Character  and 
Work. 

•  At  the  meeting  of  tbe  Society  for  Ethical 
Culture,  held  at  tbe  New  Century  Hall  yes- 
terday, W.  M.  Salter  delivered  a  lecture  on 
Wblttler,  of  which  tbe  following  Is  a 
synopsis 


Antl-Slavtry  agitation.     We    may   perhaps 
be  belpod  to,  If  we  think  of  the  sensitive- 
ness to  any  attacks  on  property  now.    >'or 
tbe  slave  was  as  much  property  as  a  piece  of    decidedly  those  of  a  "bard  of  marshal  lay." 
land  or  a  share  of  railway  stock  Is  at  pre-    In  "The  Angels  of  Buena  Vista"  occur*  stir- 


sen  t—  and  those  who  attacked  slavery  be- 
came enemies  of  tbe  law,  of  tbe  publle 
peace  and  of  social  order.  Hence,  Garri- 
son, Phillips  and  Whittier  were  almost  aa 
badly  hated  uud  maligned  In  those  days  as 
Socialists,  or  even  Anarchists,  are  now.  Yet 
Whittier  look  bis  suiud;  and  the  peace- 
loving  Quaker  became  a  man  ol  war  In  oil 
but  the  disposition  t^  use  bis  arms,  ills 
weapons  vers  not  only  love  and  pity,  but 
indignation,  wrath,  satire,,  rid  leu  le  and 
cutting  sarcasm.  His  poems  are  not  mere 
poems— ihey  are  tho  beurt-tbrobs  of  a  man 
indignant  at  a  wrong  and  fear  Jo**  of  conse- 
quences, lie  was  mobbed  In  New  Hamp- 
shire, and  bis  editorial  office  bere  In  Phila- 
delphia was  burned  along  with  Pennsyl- 
vania Hall,  tbe  city  authorities  offering 
feeble,  if  any,  restaUooe  to  the  lawless  crowd. 
Wblttler's  verses  are'  almost  a  history  of 
tbe  time,  or  rather,  they  give  ns  tbe  great 
events  of  tbe  time  viewed  from  tbe  stand- 
point of  conscience.  He  was  an  Inealenia- 
ble  moral  lotluence  In  this  critic*!  period, 
nursing  the  seutlment  and  the  moral  ardor 
by  the  help  or  which  slavery  was  at  last 
overthrown. 

In  me  realm  of  religion  Wblttler  haa 
also  exercised  a  moralising  lotluence. 
Tbe  divorce  between  religion  and  the  com- 
mon luw  ul  human  brotherhood  stirred  the 
poet's  soul.  God  was  to  bis  mind  Insep- 
arable iroin  tho-i;  ulghcr  thoughts  ibat 
ran!;*  tbo  higher  lav  hi  felt  within.  Tbe 
ser-lc:  of  Ood  h"  b"l(.  consisted  la  obe- 
dience  to  these  thorn-'  i*.  Religion  was  to 
him   no  loogcr    rites,     sacrifices.   Incense, 


ring  battle  pictures : 

"Hark  I  'that'  sudden  Mass  of  butWthexe  the 

troop  of  Minon  wheels'; 
There  the  Northern  horses  thunder,  with  tbo 

cannon  at  their  heels. " 

Here  are  in  two  lines  the  rush  and  swing 
of  contending  hosts.  Agatu,  take  these  noble 
stanzas  from  that  noble  poem,  "Tbe  Watch- 
ers": * 

"Two  angels,  each  With  droopioa  bead 

And  folded  wings  and  noiseless  tread. 
Watched  by  that  valley  of  the  dead. 

The  one.  With  forehead  saintly  bland  ' 
And  lips  of  blessing,  not  command. 
Leaned,  weeping,  on  her  olive  wand. 

The  other's  brows  wore  scarred  and  knit 

gls  restless  eyes  were  watch-fires  tit. 
Is  hands  for  battle-gauntlets  flt. 
•         •      .  •  ■       •      •' '      •. 
Then  Freedom  sternly  said:    tsfauu 
No  strife  nor  pang  beneath  tbe  sun. 
When  human  rights  are  staked  and  woo. 

1  knelt  with  Ztska's  hunted  flock. 
I  watched  in  Toussalnt's  cell  of  rock, 
I  walked  with  Sidney  to  the  block ; 

The  moor  of  "Marston  felt  ay  tread,  ' 
Through  Jersey  snows  tbe  march  1  led. 
Mr  voice  Magenta's  charges  sped. ' " 

These  are  the  lines,  not  of  ou#  who  glori- 
fied war,  but  of  a  poet  whose  imagination 
kindled  at  its  scenic- ssrpect,  and  who,  wo 
feel,  would  not  hare  shunned  strife  or  pang 
When  human  righto  were  at  stake. 


109 


BOSTON    JOURNAL— THURSDAY,    SEPTEMBER    s\  IB92i 


AT  REST. 


John   G.  Wilier 
Passes  Away. 

Miss  Gove's  Home  a  House 
of  Mourning. 


Meiers  of  the  Poet's  Family 
at  His  Bedside. 


The   Curtain    Falls  on  a 
Life  Well  Spent 


sv+dai  Diwatt*  f  7*e  Baton 

Kanwwwit,  Mai,  Sept  7.  Quietly  tad 
withont  a  struggle  with  exhausted  mlwii  the 
n>irlt  of  John  O.  Whittior.  at  tho  homo  of  Mia 
Ott,  Hampton  Falls,  passed  into  the  hands  of 
Mint  who  save  it  at  half-past  «  o'clock  this 
moraine  J  tut  as  the  light  of  heaven 
was  hreaktna:  noon  earth  ho  opened  his 
eyes  to  the  toll  light  of  tho  brisrhtaeasof  that 
Ood  in  whom  ho  trusted  and  who  had  eared  so 
tenderly  far  him  mare  than  fourscore  years. 
Dn  Dowries*,  with  aomo  of  Mr.  Whittier's 
family,  were  at  nia  bedside.  About  S  o'clock 
yesterday  afternoon  unfavorable  symptoms 
became  apparent  and  unconsciousness  followed. 
The  patient  continued  in  this  condition  through 
tho  night,  gradually  sinking,  until  tho  last 
chapter  of  the  book  of  Us  life  was  ended  and 
"  Fade  **  woe  written  In  tho  circlet  which  beam* 
so  brightly  around  tho  name  of  John  G.  Whittier. 

The  funeral  of  the  poet  will  occur  Saturday 
afternoon  from  tho  pjattsBos"  of  Judx*  Gates. 
Friend  street  The  Interment  will  take  place 
in  the  Amoabury  Cemetery,  on  Haverhill  Road. 
Tho  church  bells  this  morning  are  tolling  tbe 
age  of  tho  dead  poet  and  announcing  tho  death 
of  Amurbury's  beloved  citizen.     « 

MR.  WHITTIER'S  LIPS. 


may  bo  very  briefly  and  simply  told.  He  was 
born  in  Haverhill,  on  tnel7th  of  December. 
1807,  ana  his  father  was  a  farmer,  who  came  of 
a.  mil,  long-lived  race.  His  mother, 
whose  maiden  name  was  Abigail  Hnzzey, 
was  of  French  descent;  and  with 
a  mother's  quick  intuition,  she  saw  the  poet  in 
her  boy  and  encouraged  his  aspirations,  while 
his  father,  a  man  of  practical  mind,  looked  to 
faim  only  to  follow  his  own  career  at  the 
plow.  Mr.  Whittier  had  always  the  ten- 
dered recollections  of  his  mother, 
•ud  he  wrote  of  her  once  in  the 
Friends'  Review.  "All  that  tbe  sacred  word 
•mother  '  means  in  in  broadest  fnllest  signifi- 
cance, onr  mother  was  to  us;  a  friend,  helper, 
counsellor,  companion,  ever-lovitig.  gentle  and 
unselfish."  It  was  a  typical  New  England 
home  into  which  Whittier  was  born,  and 
tbe  picture  whioh  he  gave  of  it  in  his 
poem  "Snowbound"  was  painted  in  vivid  and 
natural  colors  from  the  poet's  memory  of  the 
fireside  in  the  Haverhill  farm  hove  and  of 
tho  loved  forms  that  gathered  about  it.  It 
was  a  Quaker  household,  and  its  influences 
were  of  the  gentlest  Throush  life,  tho  poet 
retained  allegiance  to  bis  parents'  faith,  and 
his  verse  and  bis  character  alike  show  tbe  im- 
press of  bis  early  training.  The-  lad  Whittier.  a 
shy  and  sensitive  youth,  enjoyed  the  ordinary 
district  school  privileges  of  New  JKagland 
hoys,  and  at  the  age  of  19  ho  went 
to  too  academy  at  Haverhill,  when  he 
had  tho  benefit  of  a  year's  instruction, 
broken  by  an  interval  of  six  months,  spent  in 
teaching  a  district  school  at  "Blrchy  Meadow"— 
a  place  with  an  omniously  suggestive  name. 
for  tho  site  of  a  school  house.  These,  with 
a  few  months  spent  in  desultory 
study  afterward  in  a  eierxrman's  family 
ro  Boston,  constituted  tho  only  edacational 
■Hunt unities  he  oyer  had.  Few  men  have  won 
literary  distinction,  tho  circumstance  of  whose 
youth  gave  less  promise  than  did  Whittier'a 
Ho  had  not  even  access  to  hooka,  his  father's 
library  comprisinr  not  more  than  fifteen  or 
twenty  volumes,  and  those  mostly  theological. 
Aa  the  love  of  poetry  grew  upon 
htm,  he  would  sometimes  walk  a  dozen  miles  to 
borrow  a  book  of  poems.  Bums  was  the  first 
noet  whosowritings  he  read,  and  he  never  lost 
bis  enthusiasm  for  them.  Lata  in  life,  he 
declared  that  his  wonder  and  delight 
Burus's  poems  were  as  fresh 
and  ho  gave  a  delightful 
account  of  the  Quaker  preacher,  who.  stopping 
at  tho  Whittier  homestead  over  night  first  read 
from  Burus's  writings  to  the  eager  boy.  and 
then  lent  him  tbe  volume  for  his  own  reading 
Whittior  found,  as  he  expressed  it  "that 
tao  things  out  of  which  poems  came  were  not 
a*  I  had  always  imagined,  somewhere  away 
off  in  a  world  and  life  lying  ontside  the  edge  of 
onr  New  Hampshire  sky :  they  were  right  here 
about  my  feat  and  amour  the  people  I  knew. 
Tho  common  things  of  our  common  life  I  found 
ware  full  of  poetry.  It  was  a  new  and  a  perfect 
mutilation."  To  this  revelation,  very  likely, 
we  owe  in  part  the  simplicity  of  his  own  verse 
and  the  beauty  with  which  he  invested  common 


lateral  ani   Creat 


A  Isble  Career  of 


One  ef  tbe  U  aesl  tt  men  and  sweetest  and 
surest  of  poets  haa  boon  taken  from  us  by  the 
deataof  John  Greonraaf  Whittier. 

Tho  facta  In  Mr.  Whittier's  personal  history 


The  farmer  lad  was  about  18  when  he  wrote 
his  first  poem.  The  family  were  taking  William 
Lloyd  Garrison's  paper,  tho  Free  Press,  and 
Whittier's  sister,  unknown  to  him.  save  bis 
poem  to  tbe  carrier,  who  .  slipped  it 
under  Garrison's  door.  Garrison  liked 
la  and  printed  it:  and  one  day, 
when  the  boy  was  in  the  field  with  bis  uncle, 
mending  fences,  the  carrier  came  with  tbe  pa- 
per, and  the  lad.  turning  first  as  usual  to  the 
poets'  corner,  saw  there  to  his  great  surprise  his 
own  name  and  his  own  lines.  The  lines  were  in 
blank  Terse,  a  paraphrase  of  tbe  vision  of  tbe 
pionhet  Elijah,  wherein  the  demonstration  of 


God's  power  came  in  tho  fire  and  -tho  earth- . 
guake  and  the  tempest  but  God  Himself  spoke 
lath*  still,  small  voice.    Aa  Mr.  Whittier'a  first 
urodnction.  these  lines  am  interesting: 
raa  asm. . 

"..'   Tbe  Freshet  stoat 
Ob  the  Ugh  mora t,  and  saw  the  faintest  donJ 
Poor  the  fierce  whirl  wlart  Mm  tfe  asaWfUh 
Ol  congregated  gloom.    Tbe  mountain  oat. 
Torn  from  the  earth,  beared  high  its  roots  Where  one* 
X»  branches  waved.    The  fir-tree's shapely  form, 
Pmote  by  the  tempest  lasted  the  mounts  m't  side. 
Yet  calm  in  conscious  parity,  tba  Seer 
Beheld  tho  awful  desolation,  for 
The  Eternal  Spirit  moved  net  m  the  storm. 

The  tempest  ceased.    Tbe  ea vented  earthquake  burst 
Forth  from  its  prison,  and  the  mountain  sashsfl 
X  van  to  Us  base.    The  topmost  crags  were  thrown. 
With  fearful  crashing,  down  Us  shuddering  sides. 
Tnawed,  the  Prophet  saw  and  beard;  be  feB 
Sot  in  the  earthquake  moved  the  God  of  Beavea. 

Tbe  murmur  died  away;  and  from  the  height. 
Torn  by  the  storm  and  shattered  by  tbe  shock. 
Pose  (or  and  clear  a  pyramid  of  flame 
Mighty  and  ra*c ;  the  startlM  mountain  deer  - 
Shrank  from  Its  glare  and  cowered  within  the  shads; 
The  wild  fowt  shrieked— but  erea  then  the  Seer 
Cntremblin;  stood  and  marked  tbe  fearful  glow. 
Far  Israel's  God  came  not  within  the  flame.     ~ 

The  flery  beacon  sank.    A  still,  small  voice 
Sow  eacght  the  r ropliet's  ear.    Its awful  tone. 
Unlike  to  human  sonnd.  at  once  eonreyed 
pan  awe  and  reverence  to  his  pious  heart.  - 
Then  bowed  tbe  holrmao;  bis  face  bis  vefls* ' 
BY-Ona  his  stsntts_ajfJ>J>P^taajs  ruaaa  ■ 
The  preseuce  of  ha  God.  dteeerned  not  la 
The  storm,  tbe  earthquake,  or  the  mighty  flame. 

Writing  for  the  Paper*. 

After  this,  Mr.  Whittier  contributed  poems 
occasionally  to  the  Free  Press,  the  Boston 
Statesman,  elitcd  by  Nathaniel  Greene,  and 
the  Haverhill  Gazette,  then  edited  by  the 
father  of  Professor  Thayer  of  Harvard  Uni- 
versity. While  in  Boston,  he  wrote  general 
editorial  articles  for  the  America,!  Manu- 
facturer, which  was  published  by  Mr.  Collyer. 
I  the  clergyman  iu  whose  family  he  boarded.  At 
the  same  time  he  wrote  several  articles  far  tho 
Hartford  Review,  edited  by  George  D.  Prentice, 
and  m  1829.  Mr.  Prentice  having 
to  go  to  Kentucky  to  collect  mate- 
rials for  his  life  of  Henry  Clay, 
he  wrote  to  Mr.  Whittier,  wbo  was  then  on  tbe 
farm  at  Haverhill,  inviting  him-to  manage  tho 
paper  in  his  absence.  Mr., Whittier  went  to 
Hartford  and  remained  there  two  years,  raoeiv- 
ine  ?8  .i  week  for  his  editorial  work 
on  the  Review.  He  then  went  back  to 
i  the  farm,  his  father  being  sick  and  In  need 
of  him.  Ho  took  a  lively  interest  in  politics, 
and  was  warmly  in  sympathy  with  the 
Abolitionists.  He  exerted  ixiinself  to  aid  in 
the  election  of  Caleb  Cashing  to  Conxress; 
Mr.  Cashing,  though  not  an  Abolitionist 
having  promised  to  defend  the  Abolitionists* 
right  of  petition  and  to  sea  that  then* 
appeals  were  received— a  promise  which  ho 
kept.  In  December,  1833,  Mr.  Whittier  wont 'to 
Philadelphia  as  a  delegate  to  an  anti-slavery 
convention,  and  he  and  Lewis  Tappan  served 
as  secretaries  of  the  convention.  In  lt>36 
he  was  elected  from  Haverhill  to  tho 
General  Court  as  tbe  candidate  of  the 
national  Republicans.  In  August  US&  ho 
went,  with  Geonte  Thompson  of  Eastland,  to 
Concord,  N.  H..  to  attend  an  anti-slavery  moot. 
ins.  and  they  were  mobbed  and  petted  with 
stones,  beinc  rescued  by  Col.  Kent,  who,  though 
not  an  Aboiitionist,  gave  them  refuge  in 
his  house.  Three  years  later  Mr.  Whittier 
went  to  Philadelphia,  where  far  two  years  he 
edited  an  outsooken  advocate  of  liberty  called 
tho  Pennsylvania  Freeman.  Tho  mob  finally 
broke  into  the  office  of  the  paper, 
carried  off  Mr.  Whittier's  books  and 
papers  and  burned  the  building.  Mr.  Whit- 
tier, encased  in  a  loan  white  overcoat  standing 


110 


in  the  crowd  and  watching  the  office  born. 
Next  morning  the  enti-slavery  people  held  m 
meeting  near  the  mini,  but  won  not  molested 
by  the  mob. ' 

In  184Q  Mr.  Whittier  came  to  lire  in  a  plain, 
white;  old-fashioned  house,  which  he  had  oar- 
chased  in  theoutsklrts  ot  Amesbury.  and  here 
be  lived  for  nearly  40  years,  having  as  bis  sole 
companion,  until  her  death  in  1804.  his  last  snr- 
viving  sister.  Elizabeth.  Bis  atudy  here  was 
ecosey  room  of  medium  dimensions;  a  cheery, 
open  fireplace,  with  the  old-fashioned  brass 
endiroiis.  was  a  prominent  feature  ot  it;  near 
a  window  stood  his  writing  table,  usually 
strewn  with  mannscripts  and  writing  materials ; 
there  were  a  few  chairs,  some  simple  pictures  oi 
anti-slavery  acquaintances  on  -the  walls,  with 
here  an  J  there  a  photozraah  of  somejiterary  or 
personal  friend,  HI*  bookcases  were  roomy 
and  well  filled,  and  tbe  number  of  autograph 
boohs  sent  him  by  authors  very  large.  From 
this  quiet  home  sir.  Whittier  went 
but  rarely  into  publicity,  though  he 
continued  to  attend  anti-slavery  meet- 
inss.  and  like  others  in  that  move- 
ment was  more  than  onee  In  peril  from  mobs. 
In  1843  ho  edited  the  Middlesex  Standard,  an 
anti-slavery  paper  at  Lowell,  and  he  wrote  anti- 
slavery  articles  for  any  paper  that  had  the 
courage  to  publish  them.  In  1S45  he  became  an 
associate  editor  of  the  Washington  National  Era. 
the  leading  anti-slavery  paper  of  the  country. 
edited  by  Dr.  Gamaliel  £  Bailer  oi  Connecti- 
cut. This  connection  he  continued  until  1851 
or  1852.  when  failing  health  compelled  him  to 
relinquish  It.  In  1848  the  Whigs  ot  his 
district  wanted  to  make  him  their  can- 
didate for  Congress,  but,  aa  he  said,  he 
"  was  terribly  afraid  he  might  be  elected.'  aud 
so  be  declined  the  candidacy.  He  was  chosen 
Presidential  Elector  in  1860  an  J  again  in 
18U4.  and  wai,  it  is  believed,  the  omy  man 
wbo  voted  for  Lincoln"'  both  times.  I'o 
fie  Lincoln  campaign  ne  comri  bated  a  rallying 
sow:,  "  l'he  Quakers  Are  Out,"  wbicb  was 
hailed  with  great  delight  at  tne  Wide  IAw*ke 
raliy  at  Georgetown,  where  it  was  first  recite i. 
We  give  the  song  below,  as  it  is  probauly  re- 
membered by  very  few:     

>ot  ralnlr  we  waited  and"  counted  the  boon, 
Tlie  bo<u  of  oar  trnpe  bare  bant  oat  is  to  non-era, 
N  u  room  lor  Hushing— no  loop-holo  of  doubt — 
We've  beard  from  the  Keystone!    Tbe  Quaker*  are  oat  I 

Tbe  plot  bas  exploded— ire'  ve  found  oat  tbe  trick; 
Tbe  brlbo  goes  a-begging;  the  Inston  won't  (tick. 
Wb.nl hi.-  Wide  Awake Tanternajla  ahlnlng  about, 
Tbe  rognea  *ta)'  *t  boms,  aad  tbe  tne  wen  come  oat! 

The  good  State  has  broken  tbe  corns  for  her  spaa; 
Her  ..il  springs  :■  nd  water  won't  fine  into  one; 
The  Dutchman  has  ssatoned  with  ITeedom  hat  asset, 
And  alow,  late,  bat  certain,  the  Quaker*  are  oat. 

Give  the  flagi  to  the  wind*!— *et  tbe  hills  an 
Make  way  tor  tbe  man  with  the  parmruh'a  c 
Away  wub  misgiving— away  with  nil  doubt. 
For  JJncolu  goes  In  when  tne  vnakeiscoaueoatT 

His  Relattesks  With  the  aTrieenla, 

He  always  retained  his  interest  in  political  af- 
fairs, wherever  principle  or  liberty  was  ac stake, 
and  occasional  bnet  letter*  irom  bis  pen  in  va- 
rious jour  nit  is,  in  recent  years,  have  attested 
hi*  watchfulness  aud  his  lively  sympathy 
with  all  liberal  ana  progressive  movement*. 
During  the  day*  of  the  anti-eta  very  aatitetion  bis 
position  compelled  him  to  taae issue  wuu  his 
brethren  in  mo  lalth  of  the  friend*,  and  con- 
centaur  the  breach  thus  nude  he  wrote  charac- 
teristically in  18C7: 

"From  my  y  ouui  up,  whenever  my  health  per- 
mitted. 1  itave  oeen  a  constant  attendant  of  our 
me  j;iuiffl  (or  religious  worship  This  is  true, 
however,  that  after  our  meeting  houses  were  de- 
nied oy  tbe  Vear.y  Meeting,  lor  Auti-Slavery 
purposes,  1  did  not  feet  it  in  my  way,  lor  souk 
years,  to  attend  too  Antiuai  meeting  at  New- 
port.. Proin  a  feeling  ox  duty  1  protested  against 
that  decision  when  it  was  made;  out  was  given 
to  understand  pretty  distinctly  that  shore  was 
no  'weigus'  iu  my  words,  it  waaa  hard  day 
for  reformers ;  some  stilled  their  conviction*; 
others,  not  adding  patience  to  then*  faith, 
allowed  themselves  to  be  worried  out  ot 
the  Society.  Abolitionists  holennr  office  were 
very  generally  'dropped  hut,'  and  the  Ark  oi 
tbe  Church  staggered  on  with  no  profane  au ti- 
slavery  bands  ucon  it,  For  myself,  having  no 
taste  for  controversy  which  must  necessarily 
become  oenonal,  1  left  the  Society  to  it*  course 
aud  took  mine,  feeling  quite  sure  that  the 
work,  would  go  on,  wbetner  friends  went  witn 
ttoruot  1  never  deeuatrod  ot  *  groat  chauxe 
in  the  views  of  the  Society,  bat  1  knew  that  i 


could  do  little  to  promote  it:  the  pleas  ol  youtn 
and  enthusiasm  were  not  likeiy  to  be  heeded 
by  my  eiders,  who  in  common  with  the  great 
majority  of  all  sect*,  tailed  to  comprehend  the 
breadth  and  scopu  oi  a  great  Providential  more- 
ment— God's  controversy  witu  oppression,  flow 
many  ot  those  dear  old  friend*,  so  active  on 
that  occasion,  have  since  'alien  asleep  in  t ue 
Lord,  trusting  iu  his  mercy  alone,  and  not  iu 
their  cuuxch  politics!  Others,  still  living  in 
honored  age.  have,  in  patient  and  steady  labor 
lor  the  slave,  mails  beautiful  atonement  lor 
tne  error  of  that  day  oldarxnesx.  L  too,  uierci- 
luliy  spared  to  see  the  last  tetter  tail— have 
learned  uianv  lessons  of  distrust  of  myself,  and 
charity  for  other*.  In  the  great  moral  miracle 
oi  our  aire  I  hud  no  place  fcr  self  exaltation.  It 
is  not  of  man  but  ot  Ood." 

Mr.  W  hittier's  career  as  an  author  began  with 
the  publication  m  1831  of  a  sleuder  voiume  en- 
titled "Legends  of  Mew  Engiaud  lu  prose  and 
Verse,"  and  Hearing  a  Hartford  imprint.  His 
next  volume.  "*do:l  Pltcuer,"  was  a  metrical 
tale,  oi  wuicn  Mistress  Mary  Pitcher,  tne  famous 
old  witch  ol  -Nanaut  was  the  heroine,  ine 
date  ot  its  publication  is  not  known  aud  it  ha* 
not  oeeu  included  in  the  poet's  writings.  A 
poem,  entitled  "  Mogg  Megone,"  printed  at 
Boston  iu  lasts,  in  a-  little  voiume  oi  lit)  paires, 
is  the  first  which  the  author  cared  to  recognize 
in  later  editions  of  his  worts,  and  alum 
as  it  was.  it  called  forth  frieniiy  out  discrimi- 
nating notice  from  the  .North  American  tteview. 
i'hese  earlier  products  of  VVuiUier'*  pen  are  to 
be  judged  wltu  the  charity  wmch  may 
justly  bo  claimed  for  first  writings,  re- 
inforced.  in  ibis  ease,  by  consideration  of 
the  poet's  lack  ot  training  and  the  absence 
at  that  time  o:  ail  fixed  standards  iu  American 
literature,  it  is  interesting  to  notice  how  eariy 
the  poet  was  drawn  to  Mew  England  legend*  for 
his  themes,  and  with  what  seriousness  of  miiid 
he  dealt  with  them.  Mogg  Megone,  tne  hero 
of  this  poem,  was  a  chief  of  me 
Saco  Indians,  and  not  a  very  pleasant 
person,  so  titat  the  reader  does  not  great ty  re- 
gret his  murder  at  the  bands  of  Kuth,  the  out- 
law'* daughter,  iwo  years  later  appeared  a 
volumo  of  Ballads  and  in  1845  a  volume  en- 
titled "  Lays  of  My  Home  and  Other  i*oetns." 
Lon?  betore  this  the  poet's  soul  had  oeen 
kindled  with  righteous  indignation  against  Afri- 
can slavery,  and  in  the  volume*  just  mentioned 
were  inciudou  some  of  tbe  tuirty-uiKiit  poems 
which  were  published  at  Phliadclputa  iu  1813 
under  the  title  "  Voice*  of  Freedom."  Voices 
ot  freedom  tooy  were,  innee.i.  uuu  there  wa*  a 
vehemence  and  a  martial  niM  tu  some  of  tbem 
wnicu  almost  betted  the  peaceful  tenet*  ot  the 
poet's  taitu.  Mr.  It  H.  Stoduard  uas  avowed 
his  inability  to  admire  Mr.  Whittier'*  anti- 
slavery  poetry,  and  his  wish  tuatthe  time  spent 
In  writing  it  bad  oeen  devoted  to  more  demrm- 
ful  tasks.  But  tnere  .va»  uo  more  doiigbtiul 
task  just  then  for  the  uoerty- loviu.'  poet  tuau  to 
give  his  voice  tor  human  freedom,  and  to  on 
counted  amouir  those  who  were  hatod  auu  per- 
secuted lor  their  aliegience  to  the  cause.  Mr?. 
W  assort  has  well  said  of  these  D03ms  mat 
they  were  pieces  ot  rhythmic  oratory.  "  They 
arts  themselves  battle*  and  stir  the  mood  liue 
Uie  blast  o(  a  trauipjt.  Wnat  a  boat  iu  them  ot 
fiery  pulses!  Wnat  a  he-.it,  as  of  molten  metal 
or  emu  minos  onrntug  unuer  irroun.it 
What  anger!  Wa.it  desire!  And  yet  we  hare 
in  vain  searched  tneso  poems  to  find  ouu  travo 
of  base  wratn.  or  of  any  degenerate  and  selfish 
passion."  Even  at  this  distance  ot  time,  wuo 
dots  no*  thrill  at  lines  like these,  addr.ssed  as 


by  Massachusetts 

the  huntiuK  for  fugitive 


il 


I  hnmat  Ity 


"We  wage  no  war—  w< 

within 
The  hre-damps  oftnou; 

aln; 
We  lea  ve  ye  with  your  b 
With  the  strong  upward 

man! 
Bnt  lor  ns  and  for  oar 

sIVen 
For  freedom  and 
He  star&tnint  in  e»r 
.VoAaiert  ta  tltt  hay  «/ 

And  these  from  "'" 
ing  the  terms  ot  the 
■•  Tua  Cruis  presses  on 
Willi  solemn  lip*  of  — 

sands! 
This  nay  we  fashion  Dri  ftny, 
'1'bis  day  for  all  n-rralti  r 
Even  now  truin  stirry 
We  call  tbe  dews  oi 


Virginia,   in  the  days  ot 
slave*'.' 
lift  no  arm— wa  fling  no  torch 

1  suing  mine  beneath  your  sod  ot 


mdmea,  to  wrestle,  while  ye  ess. 
tendencies  and  godlike  soni  ot 

cbiloren,  the  vow  which  we  hare 


is  registered  In  boaven; 
bofoert— «o pirate  oh  ourrtrand  I 
"'<.  te—no  alure  upon  our  kaut !" 

I  he  Crisis,"  written  on  learn- 
treaty  with  Mexico: 

face  to  face  with  nstt  stands, 
like  the  Sphinx  la  Egypt'* 


(mesuon. 

,onr  web  of  fate  we  spin; 
cu.wae  we  boliueu  oraln; 
i  -erlzlni,  or  Edsi's  clmdy-erawn. 
:  olei  state  or  the  bolts  ot  cnralag  down ! 

By  aU  for  which  tbe  ma  rtyrs  bore  their  agony  and  shame; 
uy  all  Ine  warning  wi  rd*  of  troth  «iih  which  the  pro- 

nh^t*  came; 
By -the  fnra  re  which  a  waU*  as;  by  .an  tbe  bones  which 

east 
Their  faint  and  trembfli  f  seams  across  the  Uacxneasof 

the  fast; 
And  by  the  blessed  thought  of  Him  who  for  Earth'*  free- 


dom die.  I,  I 

0  in  -.-people!  0  my  brifbcrs!  lei  ns  choose  the  rigbsseos 
|Slue!"  ,   - 

The  encouragement  which  such  poems  as 
these  gave  to  itu  cuatn  pious  of  freedom  can 
scarcely  be  estimated.  William  Lloyd  Uarri- 
sou.  in  a  lecture  at  Newbury  port  iu  February, 
1859.  said:  "  Wbinier  in  his  most  inspired sno- 
ments  rises  as  tar  anove  has  compeers  as  to* 
Isoul  is  above  the  body.  Iu  rexard  to  the  ques- 
:tiou  ot  slavery  he  bas  fulttlleu  btsesarty  prom- 
ise. Iu  every  emergency  of  the  causa.  In  every 
Insolent  attempt  ot  the  slave  power  to  override 
truth  aud  justice,  and  poison  with  its  pestifer- 
ous breath  the  fairest  hopes  of  the  free  millions 
oi  our  common  country,  he  has  never  tailed  to 
raise  his  warning  voice  as  a  aweet  singer  in 
Israel" 

Abent  His 


The  titles  of  Mr.  IVhtttier'a  volumes  of  . 
subsequent  to  The  Voices  of  Freedom  are: 
Song*  of  Labor  and  Other  Poems.  1S50;  Tbe 
Panoramn  and  Other  Poem*.  1866;  Home  BaU- 
laus  and  Poems.  1860;  Iu  War  Time  and  Other 
Poems,  1803;  National  Lyrics,  1806;  Snow 
Hound,  a  Winter  Idyl.  1868:  The  Tent  on  the 
Beach  and  Other  Poems.  1887;  Among  tbe 
Hills  and  Other  Poems,  1868;  Miriam  end 
Other  Poems,  1870;  The  Pennsylvania  Pilgrim 
and  Other  Poems.  1872;  Hazel  Blossoms,  1874; 
The  Vision  of  Echard  and  Other  Poems,  1878. 
and  The  King's  Missive  and  Other  Poems, 
1881;  Bay  of  Seven  Islands,  and  Other 
Poems.  1883;  Poems  of  Nature.  1885:  and  8t 
Greunry's  Guest,  and  Kecent  Poems,  1886.  A 
final  edition  of  hit  poetical  and  prose  works, 
supervised  by  himself  and  including  bis  sister'* 
poems,  mat  published  in  seven  volumes,  in 
1888-89.  Mr.  Whittle*  bad  gathered 
tbe  poems  he  had  written  tines  the 
publication  of  St,  Gregory's  Guest,  and 
they  are  to  appear  this  fall  under 
tbe  appropriate  title  "  At  Sundown."  Some  of 
these  poems,  if  not  alt.  appeared  in  a  privately 
primed  book  under  the  same,"jitle  a  year  or  two 
aco.  Mr.  Whlttier's  last  complete  poem  was  his 
tribute  to  Dr.  Holmes  on  his  8Sd  birthday,  in 
the  tfeotemoer  Atlantic  Monthly,  an  I  his  last 
bit  ot  verse  the  four  lines  winch  he  contributed 
to  The  Journal's  group  of  tributes  to  the  loved 
"  Autocrat,"  Aug.  29. 

Nearly  all  the  poems  contained  in  his 
volumes  are  brief,  the  longest  being  Snow 
Bound  and  fbe  Tent  on  the  Beach— and  of 
these  tbe  latter  is  rather  a  series  of  poems, 
linked  together  like  Longfellow's  Tales  of  a 
Wayside  Inn.  Oi  tba  friends  who  tell  the  sev- 
eral tales  in  The  Tent  on  tbe  Beach,  it  is  easy  to 
recognise  .Mr.  Fields  in  tbe  "lettered  magnate" 
who  could 

"Well  tb*  market  rale*  tsA 
Ot  poet  and  philosopher. " . 

Mr.  'Whittier  in  the  dreamer. 

M  Who,  with  a  nilasloa  to  falflll. 

Had  left  the  itnaes'  hamit*  to  tare 
Tbe  ciank  of  an  opinion  nail;'* 

and  Mr.  Bayard  Taylor  in  the  traveler,  with 
Arab  face  tanned  by  tropie  sons  and  boreal 
frosts,  who 

"in  Idling  mood  had  from  htm  hmratd 
The  poor  Squeezed  orange  of  the  world." 

The  volume.  "Hazel  Blossoms  "  contains  nine 

poems  written  by  tbe  poet's  sister  Klixabetb, 
which  in  form  and  spirit  suggest  a  nature  much 
like  her  brother's  and  uelp  to  explain  the  close 
gympatny  which  existed  between  tbem.  and 
which  is  further  indicated  in  the  tender  words 
witu  which  Mr.  Whittier  iniro  inoed  tbem.  It  is 
Interesting  to  trace  in  these  volumes  the  poets 
growth— his  genius  constantly  conquering  -  for  - 
itself  riches,  sweeter  and  more  gracetol  forms 
ot  expression,  and  his  latnr  poems  evincing 
a  more  accurate  sense  of  harmoay,  eh  ampler 
vocabulary,  aud  a  more  assured  command  of 
versification  than  bts  earlier.  His  tame  also 
has  steadily  broadened,  and  his  hold  upon  the 
regard  of  nis  readers  bas  become  stronger.  It 
was  iu  1847  that  Mr.  Muzzey,  who  combined 
the  occupations  ot  pill  maker  and  publisher, 
meeting  Air.  Whittier  on  (Jorauill.  sugirested  to 
him  the  Idea  of  collecting  bis  scattered  writings 
into  a  single  volume,  and  offered  to  pay  him  a 
copyright  of  S500.  As  soon  as  tbe  poet  re- 
covered from  bis  astonishment — tor  it  seemed 
to  him,  lor  tbe  moment,  a*  he  afterward  ex- 
pressed it.  that  Mr  Muzzey  had  gone  mad 
from  eating  his  own  Dills— he  gladly 
closed  with  the  offer,  and  the  book  was 
breueht  out  in  1849,  with  illustrations.  Its 
success  astonished  author  and  publisher  alike, 
and  years  af lerwarl.  when  the  author  bought 
oack  the  copyright  he  bad  to  pay  #aooo 
for  what  ne  had  gratefully  sold  for 
$500.  It  was  not  until  the  publica- 
tion of  "Snow  Bound. "  however,  that 
the  poet's  popularity  became  an  assured  and  to 
him  an  astounding  fact  Some  of  the  critics 
lo.iKed  askance  at  it.     One  of  the  first  critical 


journal*  in  the  country  declared.  that 
ii  was  more  likely  to  lessen  than  to 
increase  bis  reputation,  and  apologized 
for  Its  feebleness  on  the  ground 
that,  as  it  had  been  written  to  beguile  tbe  wear- 
iness of  a  sick  cbamber.  it  was  hardly  oven  to 
the  usual  criticism.  But  tbe  obstinate  puuiic 
could  not  be  made  to  undersiau-i  tbat 
tbe  simple  beauty  and  naturalness  of 
tbe  poem,  ant  tbe  grace  and  sweet- 
ness with  wnleh  it  treated  of  common 
things  called  ior  any  apology;  and  the  rock 
was  demanded  with  an  aridity  wliich  amize  I 
tbe  auibor  and  bis  publishers  an  I  uuini- 
pressiouable  critics  most  01  ail— the  sale 
for  tbe  first  tw.  ivo  mouths  rinnuig  up 
to  more  than  30.000  cooias.  A  trieud 
who  visited  him  no;,  long  after  found  his 
Louse  n\>nted  and  otherwise  improved,  and  (he 
m<<ruing  alter  his  arrival  tbe  poet,  urawing  on 
Ins  boots,  said:  "Theew.H  have  to  excuse  m?, 
for  1  must  go  down  to  tbe  office  of  the  collector." 
And'  h«  added,  with  a  bumoroa*  gleam  in  his 
eye.  "Mince  'Snow  Bound'  was  published  I 
bare  risen  to  tbe  dignity  of  an  income  tax." 
Seventieth  Birthday  Celebration. 

Mr.  Whittier  contributed  to  the  first  number 
of  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  and  has  continued 
until  tbe  present  time  one  of  its  most  regular 
and  valued  contributors,  With  Emerson,  Long- 
fellow, fields  and  twenty  or  more  others  of  tbe 
Atlantic  contributors,  be  was  associated  iu  the 
"Saturday  Ciub."  which,  with  ranks  sadly 
thinned  uy  death,  still  holds  its  monthly  meet- 
ings. A  very  pleasant  and  fitting  recognition  of 
Mr.  Wbittier's  association  with  the  Atlantic 
vat  made  by  the  publishers  of  that 
periodical,  in  a  banquet  which  they  gave 
In  honor  of  his  seventieth  birthday.  Dec 
17,  1877.  to  which  the  Atlantic  contriotators 
were  invited.  The  banquet  took  place  at  tbe 
Hotel  Brunswick,  and  was  a  most  delightful 
orc:i«ion.  It  is  a  striking  illustration  of  the 
poet's  timidity  and  shrinking  iron*  publicity. 
that  it  tt.uh  with  difficulty  that  ne  was  per- 
suaded to  bo  present  at  this  banquet,  given  in 
his  honor,  ho  (ortified  himself  against  the  con- 
tingency of  absence  by  placing  in  Mr.  Long- 
fellow's ban  .»  ttie  poem  winch  he  wrote  for  the 
occasion,  and.  thongn  bis  shyness  was  so  far 
overcome  tbat  he  appeared  at  tbe  banquet 
and  spoke  a  few  words  of  simple  acknowl- 
edgment of  the  compliments  paid  him,  he  still 
had  not  tbe  heart  to  read  Uls  own  lines,  and  that 
service  was  rendered  by  .ur.  Longfel- 
low. At  this  banquet  addresses  were 
made  by  Mr.  Longfellow,  Mr.  Hoaghton, 
Mr.  Howells.  Mr.  Warner,  Col  Higsrtnson  and 
others,  and  poems  were  read  by  Dr.  Holmes. 
Mr.  Piatt  and  Mr.  Stoddard.  Mr.  Emerson,  who 
was  present,  responded  to  the  calls  made  upon 
him  by  reading  Mr.  Whittter's  "Id. a  oo." 
Another  verv  pleasant  and  gratifying  recogni- 
tion of  Mr.  v<  liuuer's  seventieth  -uirthday  was 
the  puolication  of  a."  Whittier  nnmuer"  of  the 
Literary  World.  To  this  number  Mr.  Long, 
fellow,  Mr.  Bayard  Taylor.  Mr.  dtedman.  Dr. 
Horn's,  Mr.  Paul  R.  Hayne.  Dr.  Holland.  Mr. 
George  P.  Lathrop.  Mrs.  L,  Maria  Chil  I. 
Mrs.  Tbaxter,  .vliss  Pbelps,  Mr.  Garrison 
and  others  contributed  poetical  tributes 
to  the  character  and  writing*  of  Mr- 
Whittier,  and  there  were  *  cordial  .  letters 
of  irietidsbip  and  high  regard  from  tne  venera- 
ble Richard  H.  Dana.  Wihiam  Culleh  Bryant.. 
Georce  Bancrofts  Vol  Hbpxiusou  and  itm'iv 
inore.  It  is  a  paihful  reminder  o.'  the  losses 
which  American  I  literature  has  sustalne  I  of 
late  that  of  the  fifteen  names  mentioned  above 
<s  amour  those  wao  joined  in  this  trioute  to 
Mr.  Wiiittier.  seven  are  those  of  persons  who 
<<re  aire;idy  :ead 

■  MY.  Longfellow's  tribute  to  his  brother  bard 
att  this  time  vns  ttbe  exqnbho  sonnet,  "  The 
Three  Silences." 

Three  Mlsnccs  t.ie^e  are;  the  first  ot  speech, 

l  iic  ttcond  at  ■  l-firr,  tbe  third  of  thought , 

i     'iU  i ,  Hit'  1  tv  » l-ipantih  monk,  dim  raiutht 

With  iUe*un  a::<|  rislo.is,  was  the  tint  to  teaeh. 
These  Mlr-i  era,  ruihounglio,'  eucb  with  each. 
Made  ay  rfca  perfect  Sdeuee  tbat  be  sought 
1     Andirrvc    ."•:,  and  wherein  at  time*  he  '..iagnt 

M)«i<.rfni*  .'.■.ti;,Jg  from  realms  bevond  onr  n. jco. 
)  O  th  iu,  truss  rtdlf  ltr*  anticipaiui 

Tbo  life  la  ••' >ni<\]and  in  whose  thought  and  word 
The  s^lrimal  woild  preponderates. 
Hermit  of  Aiuestmfr!  tbou  too  hast  heard 
Voices  and  melodies  from  beyond  the  gates. 
And speu&ett  on*-  when  thy  *oul  Is stirred! 

Hit  .HeUeaty  and  tUt/mmm • 


The  shyness  whl 
in  connection  witl 
which  reference  hi 
phase  of  a  uaodestif 
speak  with  siugu.rd 


Mr.  Whittier  manifested 
such  tributes  as  tuose  to 
ks  been  made  was  omy  one 
|whic.i  led  bim  tounuk  and 
•humility  of  his  work.  In 
18'iT.  writing  tol  correct  a  misapprehension 
which  found  placol  in  the  Xattou,  to  the  effect 
that  he rcuretled  thai  be  bad  not  giveu  imrneif 
to  purely  literary  pursuits,  instead  of  devoting 


111 

so  ipuch  ot  (us  streH-'tu  to  iaoor  lor  the  einanci- 
patfi  n  of  the  slave! [he  said : 

true  simple  fact  is  that  1  cannot  be  sutGciont- 
ly  tkaukful  to  the  ill  vlnaProTidencetbataoeariy 
called  my  attoiitiot  to  the  great  Interests  of 
kufrxaauy,  saving  «|e  from  the  poet  ambitious 

and  miserable  jealousies  of  a  selfish  Dur»uit  of 
literary  reputation.  Up  to  a  comparatively  re- 
cent perioa  my  literary  writings  have  been 
simply  euiso.ncai,  something  apart  ii-om  tne 
real  object  and  aim  ot  my  life,  aud  whatever  of 
favor  mey  have  found  witu  the  unblic  has  come 
to  uie  as  a  tfratelul  surprise  rat  her  man  an  ex- 
pected reward.  As  I  have  never  staked  ail  upon 
thecna.ices  oi  autuorsuip,  1  nave  oeeu  sp.ir ed 
the  pain  oi  disappointment  and  the  teinptauou 
to  envy  those  wuo,  as  men  oi  letters,  deservedly 
occuuv  a  uigher  piace  in  tno  poouiar  esuination 
than  1  bave  ever  aspired  to." 

Writing,  in  187*.  iu  auswer  to  a  letter  which 
informed  nim  that  nis  works  were  to  oe  made  a 
suujeci  oi  special  study  uy  the  Friends'  social 
Lyceum  ot  Wilmington,  Dot.,  he  said : 

"  1  have  not  felt  able  to  place  a  very  big.,  esti- 
mate ou  my  writing*.  1  know  too  well  tueir  de- 
hciencies,  uut  1  nave  given  tne  puolic  tue  uest  1 
had  togive.  auutne  measure  of  favor  witu  which 
they  have  been  received  has  been  a  constant 
surprise  to  me.  This  at  least  1  can  say  truiy, 
tua.  1  have  been  actuated  by  a  higher  motive 
than  literary  success,  auu  it  uas  oeeu  my  desire 
tuat  wuatever  intlueuce  my  writing*  may  exert 
Should  oe  found  ou  tbo  side  oi  morality,  lree- 
uoni  and  christian  charity." 

iiio  regard  in  wuicu.  Mr.  Whittier  is  held 
among  tue  Friends  Is  indicated  uy  tbe  fact  tuat 
tuey  naui.'j  ine  inst.tution  oi  learning  which 
they  esiauli.Hhed  in  lSuli  at  Cialem.  lowa,  Wuib- 
tier  College,  iu  tu«  uope  that  it  migut  "luruiah 
uie  biguo&t  intelieCiual  ana  morai culture,"  and 
"reflect  tne  me  and  character  ot  tne  poet  whose 
name  it  bears." 

As  regards  personal  appearance,  Mr.  Whittier, 
like  his  ancestors,  was  tail — measuring  six  teet 
ur  more — ot  slender  bniid.  put  utraigut  as  an 
arrow,  lie  bad  a  nigh  loreitead,  a  quiet  smiie, 
uark,  piercing  eyes,  aud  hair  that  was  ouce 
btacg,  bat  iu  nis  old  -  age  tutnued 
auu  gray.  lie  dressed  in  a  sun  of 
hiack,  cat  in  Quaxer  laehion.  and  be  retained 
some  of  tne  <^uaaer  peculiarities  ox  speech,  lie 
was  given  to  long  waigs,  and  was  a  most  plea- 
sant and  conipamouaoie  neighbor;  but  ue  was 
not  in  the  habit  o.  driving,  ana  he  traveled  but 
rarely  and  lor  short  uutauce*— never,  it  Is  saio, 
having  gone  farmer  tuan  to  WastUugton,  lie 
often  spent  a  portion  oi  the  winusr  in  tuu  city, 
Ui>uaiiy  at  the  nbuse  of  bis  iriend,  ex  Uovernor 
clarl.n.  He  wrote  only  wuen  the  mood  was 
ou  mm,  and  men  very  soon,  artex  tue  idea 
which  he  sougut  to  express  nau  tak^n 
tKnstjssiou  ot  nts  mind,  lie  wrote  easily 
and  waii  an  absoruing  interest  in  uls  subject, 
aud  although  he  was  soo  conscientious  to  send 
out  crude  writing,  his  first  dratts  were  not 
usually  greatly  altered  by  suusequent  revision. 
tor  tcvera.  years,  bis  noiso  has  oeeu  in  a  com- 
lortabie.  roomy  uouse  at  "U*k  Kuoil"  in  Dan- 
vers,  a  p>ace  named  ior  tue  beautuul  oag  trees 
which  a  .oru  it.  rle  uas  retimed  ownership  oi 
tne  house  in  Amesuury  wuore  nts  mouter  and 
sister  died,  uut  bas  lived  inojt  oi  the 
time  of  late  at  tbe  .  "Knoll,"  ting- 
ing congenial  '  employment  and  diver- 
sion in  tne  liguter  care>  oi  rural  life,  tie  ban  had 
aiwsys  tue  same  simple  auu  cordial  welcome  ior 
a.l  comers,  ana  tuere  are  ma„y  poor  p^opie  wuo 
nave  reason  to  hoid  bun  In  gratoiui  remem- 
brance. 

His  a  serene,  winning,  courageous  and  noble 
spirit  «  hicu  hasgoue  irom  us.  As  some  one  uas 
weu  said,  nis  me  was  pis  uest  poem.  Foetoi 
iNew  Kuglaud.iixe  and  legend,  oi  tueuomeauu 
home  attectious,  ol  lreuuoai  aud  charity  aud  re- 
ligious laith,  nis  worK  and  u  is  cnaracter  stand  out 
in  uobte  reliei,  auo  are  a.i  utsD^ratiou  to  pure 
living  aud  nigu  endeavor.  From  tue  suusei.oX 
Ins  ine  was  shed  sometning  oi  tbe  giory  and 
beauty  of  wbicn  he  saug  in  his  sweet  poem. 
"  Sunset  on  tue  Bearcamp:" 

Slow  fades  Um  TWon  at  tin  Sky,     . 

The  goiuen  water  pale*. 

Ana  over  all  tbe  vuj  icy-land 

A  gray-wioted  Vapor  aaUs. 

I  zo  tue  eouuuoa  way  m  aU; 

XlM  mus-t  Urea  wul  bun. 

The  floweis  will  blow,  the  river  flow, 

Wben  1  no  more  retain. 
So  whisper  Irom  life  mountain  pins 

Nor  lapsing  iikui  .hall  tell 
The  Mrau^er,  treaUUiK  "Here  1  tread, 

Ut  htm  who  loved  "them  well. 

Bet  twenty  seen  Is  never  lest, 

God's  colon  all  are  last; 
The  sloiy  of  uxs  sunset  iiasnaj 

lrwmv  souj  ba*  p.imil. — 
A  sense  of  tuailnss*  niieonS—q 

To  mortal  sale  or  cUine : 


As  tbe  soul  hrets.  tt  shaU  Mrs 

JJeyond  the  years  of 
Beside  tue  raysile  a«j' 

Suall  blooiutbeho 
And  ue-.r  bonauna  flush  and  glsng 

>\  tth  « onset  hues  ol  oars.  - 


TRIBUTES  AND  ANECDOTES. 

A  Selertlos  From  the  X«Bberi«s  Seat  Thlsis 
Said  ol  Mr.  WklUler. 

The  "  poet  of  freedom  "  has  passed  away  and 
numberless  are  the  tribute*  and  anecdotes 
which  follow  the  demisa  '  A  few  of  the  many 
loving  thing*  sa<d  about  him  yesterday  have 
been  collected  by  The  Journal  The  tribute  by 
Edward  Everett  Hale  is.  perhan-t,  tbs  fullest 
that  bas  come  to  notice.  Frees  It  are  taken  the 
following  excerpts  : 

Eslwttrd  Everett  , 


"Dr.  Holmes  bas  taught  ut  that  the  noet  re- 
membered »y  the  most  is  be  whose  songs  are 
sacred  onomth  to  be  song  in  men's  churches, 
while  they  are  simple  enough  for  men  and 
women  of  all  sorts  and  conditions  to  remember 
them  and  want  to  sing  them.  He  has  shown 
that  of  the  English  poets  ot  the  last  century  it 
is  not  your  gran  I  qnar to-printing  Thomson  or 
Somerviile.  dedicating  their  poems  to  forgotten 
noblemen,  who  is  most  widely  quoted  to-day. 
Not  even  Cow  per  or  Alexander  Pope,  the  kin-: 
ot  them  all.  It  is  dear  Doctor  Watts,  of  whom 
a  hundred  lines  come  to  memory  and  lip  for  one 
from  the  stately  poems,  who  is  familiarly  re- 
membered. Both  Dr.  Holmes  and  Mr.  Whittier 
have  achieved  for  themselves  such  success  as  it 
thus  described.  In  each  case  tbe  success  is  due 
to  the  writer's  habit  of  personal  and  hearty 
intimacy  with  all  sorts  and  conditions  ot  men. 

"  Vet  more  than  one  of  Whittier*!  hymns— 
of  tlio«e  best  known— were  written  with  no 
thcu-rht  by  the  '  Quiker  Poet '  that  they  woukL 
be  sung  in  '"  meeting.'  What,  iaiieci.  would 
George  Fox  havo  said  had  he  been  told  that 
within  two  centuries  after  lint  Journey  through 
N»w  England,  tne  songs  of  a  New  England 
*  Friend '  would  be  sung  in  every  '  steeple 
house  '  in  New  England,  no*.  :o  say  in  every 
'steeple  hoo>e'  in  Old  England?  Whittier 
•*  roi •>.  r,c;  that  men  might  sing— not,  indeed, 
that  t-i ■•>■  might  praise  bim— bat  because  this 
thing  oagi.t  to  be  sain,  and  he  would  say  it  as 
well  a<  h    roul  J  say  it  there  and  then. 

"  iu  hundred*  of  churches  thousands  oi  wor- 
shipers tins  aud  remember  the  hymn : 
*  O  fairest  horn  of  lave  and  light.' 
and  tbank  him   for  it    The- fine  verses  thus 
Known  so  widely  were  selected  by  bis    friend. 
Samuel    Longfellow,  from    tne  ode  to  "  Democ- 
racy." wnich  Whittier  wroto  in  1843,  on  "  elec- 
tion day.'     There  are  but  few  men   wboeould 
tell  us  what  tne  issues  ot  that  election  were." 
Hong  ef  the  KrsrassM  Krs>tgvrasit«. 
TVe  cross  lb*  prairie,  as  of  old. 
Our  tuners  co^scilthssca. 
To  mnte  the  West. as  tnevlhe  East, 
■The  homestead,  of  the  :ree!  ..  , 

We  )ro  to  rear  a  wall  of  mien 

On  freedom's  southern  line.     J 
Ana  plant  best' Is  rhu  cotion-tras  1 

Tiie  rasped  northern  pine. 

•  •  •         •         •      1   ■' 

f  r.  he  art  in,  lite  the  ark  of  otl,  i  ] 

The  Bible  in  onr  van, 
We  go  to  icst  tbe  truth  of  God 

Araif-st  the  fraud  of  maa.     i   >- 

No  pause  nor  rest,  save  wnses  tte  in  i  inn     .  • 

That  feed  the  Kansas  ran; 
Save  where  onr  pilgrim  gonfalon  : 

Shall  flout  the  setting  son!  ; 

Cel.  T.  tV.   nigglBMsu 

"Going  to  reside  at  New.-urybort,  Masa,  I 
was  within  a  few  miles  of  Whittier,  aud  was 
often  a  fruest  at  his  peaceful  and  benny  home 
a'.  Amesoury.  He  and  bis  mother  and  sister  be- 
longed to  the  Society  of  Frieu-isiu  the  most  lit- 
eral sense  of  that  tine  title:  and  tbe  strength  ot 
that  quality  was  not  Impaired  by  tbelr  living  in 
a  lift. e  white  collate  in  a  factory  village.  Tbe 
three  members  of  tbe  family  formed  a  perfect 
combination  of  wholly  varying  temperament*. 
Mrs.  Whittier  was  placid,  strong  and  sensible 
an  exquisite  housekeeper  and  'provider;'  it 
seems  to  ine.  that  I  have  since  seen  no  white- 
ness to  be  compared  to  tbe  snow  of  her  table- 
cloths and  napKins.    But  her  soul  was  of  the 


same  has;  and  all  worldly  conditions  and  all 
fame  of  her  children— for  Elizabeth  Wnittier 
then  shared  the  lame— were  to  her  whollv  sub- 
ordinate thlnirs.  to  be  taken  as  the  Lord  gave. 

"On  one  point  only  this  blameless  aoul  seemed 
tohavoa  shadow  of  solicitude,  this  oeing  the 
new  wonder  of  Spiritualism,  just  dawning  on 
the  world.  I  never  went  to  the  house  that  there 
did  not  come  from  the  gentle  lady  very  soan  a 
plncid  inquiry  from  behind  her  knlttin*  needles. 
'Has  thee  any  further  information  to  give  m  re. 
car  J  to  th»  spiritual  com  muni  aatior.i.  as  tbey 
oail  them? '  But  if  I  attempted  to  treat  seri- 
ously a  matter  which  then,  as  now.  puzzle  i 
most  inquirers  by  its  perplexing  details,  there 
would  come  some  keen  thrust  trom  Elizabeth 
Whittier  which  would  throw  all  serious solu- 
tion farther  off  than  ever." 

Janet  Baasell  L.«svell'»  Tribute. 

This  was  Mr.  Lowell's  verse  for  Mr.  Whittier 
on  his  eightieth  birthday: 

How  fait  a  pearl  cti.iln.  etjrtttv  strong. 

Lustrous  and  hallowed  crery  one 
With  saintly  thoosh.s  and  aacied  sons 
As  ' t  were  tb«  roaary  of  a  nan '. 
Hon.  H.  O.  Houghton  of  Houghton,   Mifflin  & 
Co..  the  publishers  for  Mr.  Whittier.    was   seen 
yesterday  and  gave  some  personal  reminiscences 
as  lot  lows: 

*  *  •  •  • 

"When  I  went  once  to  Dan  vers,  at  the  invita- 
tion of  Mts. Woodman,  I  rememiier  Mr.  Wiiittior 
snoke  to  m»  clioerrully  and  pleasantly,  about 
his  approaching  end.  He  extr^-se  I  himselt  as 
ready  lor  the  change  at  anr  time,  He  thought 
it  was  all  in  the  course  of  nature,  and  be  spoke 
nolUhtfuliy.  Mr.  Whittier  was  a  deliamftx! 
conversationalist,  but  be  was  shy  and  never 
carod  to  tain  to  more  than  one  person  at  a 
time.  Darin*  this  visit  1  enjoyed  myself  very 
inuoh.  Mr.  Whittier  was  in  a  charming  mood 
•ndfM  was  living  in  •  Iflrttrr  spot amine  wa» 

very  happy.  I  don't  think  I  ever  enjoyed  a  visit 
mor"  than  I  cid  this  one.    '• ;  . 

•  •  •;  - "  »  "    • 

"  As  an  instance  of  bis  self-depreciation.  I  re- 
member that  Mr.  HoweIVs  and  myself  attended 
a  dinner  complimentary  to  the  poet  on  Ins  7QM» 
birthday,  and  Mr.  Whittier  in  course  ofaCaU- 
versation  said :  '  I  know  tne  peoole  of  this  coun- 
try like  my  poems,  because  they  tell  me  so.  and 
tbey  write  to  me  how  much  they  enjoy  reading 
them,  and  I  think  tbey  are  truthful,  but  it's  ail 
humbug.'  . v-~ 

"And  yet,"  said  Mr.  Houghton.  "Ms  poetry 
has  a  wonderful  power.  Many  of  bis  poems 
have  the  rinir  of  musketry  and  rifles. 
,  "One  or  his  poems,  which  he  was  very  late  in 
acknowledging,  was  lull  of  the  miliary  spirit. 
I  speak  of  the  'Old  Vermontexs.'  It  is  are* 
markable  poem,  and  one  osn  hardly  realise 
that  it  was  written  by  the  quiet,  unassuming 
Quaker  poet,  who  has  just  passed  sway  from  as, 

"  He  very  rarely,  in  conversation,  referred  to 
politics  or  religion,  but  he  had  very  decided 
views  as  to  his  political  duties,  and  was  a  deeply 
religions  man." 

A»  Old  Ae<]a*iataae*. 

Mr.  Frank  B.  Sanborn  has  known  Mr.  Whittier 
ever  since  be  first  began  lo  attract  attention  as 
a  ooet.    In  an  interview  yesterday  he  said : 

"As  appears  very  clearly  from  his  autobiog- 
raphy, published  the  other  day.  the  domestic 
life  of  Whittier  was  from  the  beeinntug  Terr 
simple  and  even  rustic  As  long  as  he  remained 
on  the  farm  at  Haverhill  he  took  part  in  all  the 
farm  labors  without  exception,  mowing,  reap- 
ing, threshing  with  an  old-fashioned  flail.  and 
all  those  forms  of  manual  labor  which  are  now 
almost  forgotten.  Few  persons  visited  him  in 
Haverhill  except  the  anti-slavery  men,  with 
whom  he  was  then  so  closely  connected. 

"After  he  removed  to  Amesbury  ids  cottage 
there  was  often  visited  by  many  of  his  friends. 
He  received  there  Alcott,  Emerson.  Ellery 
Channing  and  the  other  early  traneeendentsi- 
isu.  toward  whom  be  inclined,  and  some  of 
whom  were,  like  himself,  very  familiar  with 
tbe  Memmac  River  and  its  neighbor  heed.     - 

"A  friend  of  mine,  long  since  dead.  Benjamin 
Griffin,  who  was  well  known  as  a  Republic  m 
politician  and  friend  of  Charles  Sumner,  lived 
for  years  in  West  Newbury,  a  few  miles  across 
the  river  from  Amesbury,  and  was  in  the  habit 
of  visiting  Whittier  iuloroially.  as  most  people 
did.  The  family  then  consisted— say  in  1850— 
of  tbe  poet,  bis  mother  an  ■  sister  Elizabeth,  who 
was  herself  a  writer  of  excellent  verse  and  the 
liveliest  and  most  social  member  ox  tbe  bowse. 
hold. 

"Whittier  at  that  period,  at  1a  bis  youth,  wag 
shy  in  conversation,  except  with  intimate 
friends,  and  fashionable  visitors,  or  those  wno 
insisted  on  praising  hlin  tooopenly.eouli  seldom 
draw  much  from  him.  His  increasing  knowl- 
edge of  uio  world,  and  the  tarns  which  his 
verses  i  rounht  him.  removed  much  of  this  shy 
and  rustic  manner  after  years,  but  be  was  never 


112 

foud  of  a  large  company,  and  usually  avoided 

those  occasions  whore  he  might  he  lionized. 
•         ••eve* 

"I  could  never  notice  that,  even  in  old  age, 
whittier  wrote  less  easily  than  before  be  had 
acaclred  irreat  skill  by  i.ractice.  and  his  verse 
is  more  free  from  those  traits  which  lead  some 
of  his  Enirlisb  critics  to  undervalue  his  high 
poetic  merit.  He  belonged  to  the.  school  of 
Burns  and  not  to  that  of  Pope,  or  Coleridge,  or 
Tennyson— still  less  of  Matthew  Arnold. 

"His  home  life  was  simp ;e  to  the  last  In  con- 
versation he  was  emphatic  and  eviuced  great 
Independence  of  oniuion.  but  be  was  by  no 
means  given  to  disquisition.  He  was  particu- 
larly interested  in  religious  matters,  and  in 
politics  as  connected  with  the  anti-slavery 
cause.  He  kept  in  touch  with  tbe  news  of  tbe 
day.  was  a  somewhat  close  reader  of  the  -news- 
papers and  was  a  much  wider  reader  of  books 
than  was  generally  supposed.' 

"I  tnink  that  the  best  example  of  his  peculiar 
style  is  'Snowbound.'  Which  deals  with  sucn 
interesting  phases  of  New  England  life. 
Whittier  was  emphatically  a  local  poet  and 
poet  of  scenery.  The  poems  of  his  that  have 
probably  pro  luced  the  most  effect  were  some  of 
his  anti-slavery  ballads  and  religious  -poems. 
The  anti-slavery  ballads  were  extremely  good 
and  Intro  raced  a  form  of  verse  into  oar  litera- 
ture that  was  not  known  before— a  sort  of  com- 
bination of  narrative  and  poetic  eloque  ice  that 
appears  in  some  of  the  ballads,  and  shown  forth 
even  better  than  m  Longfellow's  writings. 
'  Barbara  Freiichie.'  for  instance,  is  one  of  his 
poems  that  wilUlive  long. 

"Whittier  was  more  like  an  apostle  or  ballad 
sinner— a  sort  of  Quaker  minstreL  as  it  were— 
than  a  literary  figure.  He  struck  here  and 
there,  when  he  bad  a  particular  interest,  but 
the  broader  view  of  life  bo  did  not  take.  He 
was  a  sort  of  Georre  Fox  in  rhyme.  He  was  a 
real  noet,  with  as  much  enthusiasm  and  rapture 
as  any  ot  them,  and  was  yet  a  Quaker  an  I  de- 
voted himself  to  religious  causes  all  the  time. 
Whittier  will  i  e  read  by  more  people  at  dif- 
ferent ages  than  most  pi  our  eoeta.  Be  appeals 
to  young  and  old  alike." 

Mteries  of  the  reel. 

When  Mrs.  Ceiia  Thaxter  was  boarding  at 
the  little  English-like  inn  on  the  sunny  slope  of 
Beacon  Hill  called  Hotel  Winthrop.  Mr  Wntt 
tier  went  there  one  day  to  see  iter.    Mrs,  The* 
ter  Jiked  the  quiet  place,  wiib   its  ivied  windo* 
atid   the  glimpse  of   the   strong,  short,  gr-j1 
draped  tower  of  St.  John  the  Evangelist,  an 
abe  praised  it  to  her  old  friend.    That  was  son 
time  in  1881.  sn  i  in  November  of  thst  year  I 
joined   his  Oak  Knoll  cousins.  Mrs.  Woodma 
anu  her  daughter  aud  the  Misses  Johnson,  at  tb 
Winthrop.    The   ladies   of   his   family  came  i 
September,  but  Mr.  Whittier  di  i  not  join  that 
until  .November.    He  ssi  t  tuat  he  did  not  wan 
to  Jose  his  vote  in  Amesbury. 

v      •  •        •  .  .   a        *        w  _  .  m 

A  lady  who  was  one  of  that  "  family  "  tells  t 
story  of  seeing  in  the  morning  paper,  one  day.  a 
paragraph  to  the  effect  that."  a  certain  widow  c 
was  likely  by  perseverinr  efforts  to  xnceee J  ia 
becoming  Mrs,  Whittier.  When  sbe  went  dowa 
to  uiuuer  that  day  tne  poet  was  seated  at  table 
with  a  stranger  from  the  country  and  her  three 
handsome  boy*,  lie  was  ail  devotion  to  tea 
party.  He  buttered  the  children's  bread  attd 
ordered  jam  to  top  the  nutter.  Everything  on 
tne  bill  of  fare  was  provided  for  the  boys  an4 
their  mother  and  "more  nuts  aud  raisins " 
called  for.  Wnen  tbey  were  gone  and  the 
■amily  hau  assembled  in  tbe  parlor  where  the 
evenings  wore  spent,  across  the  uall  trom  the 
mormug-rooin,  the  lady  who  had  cut  the  para* 
graph  read  it  merrily  to  the  party,  sayiugj 
"  From  wnat  we  saw  at  dinner  to-day,  it  seems 
as  it  this  story  of  the  widow  may  be  .rue."  AHv 
Whittier  laughed  with  the  rest,  then  said  seri- 
ously aud  witu  that  »iucere  mo  lesty  which  was 
his  lue-loug  cnarui.  **_ l'uat  lady  brought  her  boys 

4<)  miles  u*  see  m*V   I  don't  know  un.tt  tu« 
about   me   that   would  make  anybody  w  .. 
come  lorty  inues  to  sew  ma"    fn*  strange: 
arrived  about  dinner  time  on  the  pintrur 
with  her  boys,  and  bad  been  cor  .utily  in- 
to stay  to  dtnntr  by  thi  ho-p-.tabi-  p°. :. 
tol-.i  the  hons.ko.  p  r  that  she  bad  feit  ■    th 
she  "cnuid  not  let  Whi.ticr  get  oid  *<m 
without  seeing  him  and  having  her  bois 
him." 


thing  goes  on  much  tourer  1  shall  be  land  poor." 

'  During  the  winters  he  was  at  the  Winthrop. 
Mr.  Whittier's  favorite  way  of  getting  ssjoui 
was  in  a  nerdtc.  Tuey  were  "not  pretty."  but 
they  "knew  tne  way  to  peaces,"  fuititeiau* 
usedtoiro  tuere  tosee  hima:id  try  to  get  him 
u>  banaueis.  But  his  liu-lonx  avoidance  of 
politics  in  the  minor  sense  made  hint  easily  re- 
sist their  wiles.  **  1  have  seen  Jar.  —  (a  wetl- 
knowu  name)  come  here  aud  just  about  ,o  down 
on  his  lutees  to  get  Mr.  VVbitt.ertosovakor  avert 
to  came  to  a  banquet."  sera  the  landlord  (wuo  is, 
uy  tne  ray.  ait  olo-timo  euaraeter  wertay  of 
anovel  it's  pen).  "  but  Mr.  IVbiut.-r  wouid  just 
sit  there— right  in  that  chair  yoa're  in— •■•>  I 
kind  of  smiio  to  himself  as  if  to  smV.  *Oh.  yonr 
talk-tton't amount  ioanyintn<t'    W'oli.  o.io  .<ir. 

camo  here  ana  staved  ana  stayed  a-taik • ; ,^ 

and  persuadimr,  an  I  gave  Mr.  Whittier  an  ear- 
ache if  evera  man  bad  one.  but  he  didn't 
maKS  anything  by  it,  although  he  finally  had  to 
laxo  a  beu  and  stay  ail  nlgbu" 

ARRANGEMENTS    FOR    THE    FUNERAL. 

Newburttort,  Mass..  Seat.  7.  It  to  uad  r- 
stood  that  Mr.  Whittier  left  a  will,  made  aboutt 
two  years  ago,  in  which  are  direct  mas  shout  hie] 
tunc  rat  and  burial. 

It  is  probable  the  body  of  Mr.  Whittier  will  bi 
brought  to  AmesDury  from  Hampton  Falls  to? 
morrow,  and  that  tbe  funaral  services  will 
be  held  at  his  home  on  Friend  street  on  Kate, 
day.  Tncy  will  be  conducted  according  to  m 
Friends*  ritual,  by  whom  is  not  determined.  '1  US 
burial  will  be  in  the  Whittier  family  lot,  located! 
in  the  Friends' quarter  of  the  old  cemetery,  near| 
Bartlctt's  corner,  in  Amesbnry.  In  Che  lot  are 
Mr.  Whiitier's  parents,  sister  and  auut  The 
lot  is  enclosed  by  an  evergreen  hedge, 

THE  QUAKER  CUSTOM. 
HAatrrox  Falls.  N,  tt.  Sept,  7.  According 
to  the  Quaker  custom  there  will  be  no  sermon 
preached  at  the  mneral  services  over  the  bo-iy 
of  Johu  G.  Whittier.  Ths  services  will  be  quite 
simple.  The  bells  in  Amosbury,  Mr.  Whittier's 
late  borne,  were  tolled  this  forenoon  whe-n  the 
news  of  his  death  was  received  there. 

HAVERHILL  MOURNS. 
Ha vebhill.  Muss,.  Sept  7.  Tbe  news  of  the 
death  of  John  <J.  Whittier  has  bean  received 
here  with  universal  feelings  of  sadness  and  re- 
gret i  he  City  Hall  bell  was  struck  84  time*  at 
S  o'clock,  as  in  ticat:  n?  the  aire  of  ibe  de-cr-sse  I, 
aud  rla<s  on  the  .  "iidiu^sand  also  on  tbe  sruool 
houses  were  displayed  at  baif-mast  uai;scn 
of  resoect  lor  the  great  ooet. 

...WHjn!ER;JS,LDJEAaJ 

The  Quaker  Poet  PaweB  Peace- 
tally  A  yraj.* 

Eighty-Four   Year*  eif  Useful    Life 
Ended. 


<i   IS 

li  to 
i  ad 
■:e 
ited 
<he 
\'n 
'•:» 
•!-e 


OnC9  a  friend,  a  lady  who  had  sotm>  pro;  '  -, 
in  Virginia,  wrote  Mr.  Wbitticr  of  u.i  <■ 
named  n,  street  in  a  new  town  lor  him.  a.  of 
having  set  twde  a  portion  of  ground  in  bis 
name.  He  replied  with  tnaiik-<.  ajdiug  that  he 
bad  that  week  received  news  of  no  less  man 
three  towns  or  streets  ueing  namea  for  him, 
with  a  gift  ot  town  lots,  addl.ig:    "ii  this  sort  ot 


Ham iton.  It"  H..  Sept.  7.  Mr.  John O.  WMt- 
tier.  he  poet,  passed  away  at  4^0  this  morning. 
He  died  peacefully  and  was oonsaoas  up  tethe 
moment  of  his  death.  •-'» 

His  nearest  relatives  war*  with  him  when  be 
pas«;«>d  away.  Dr.  Douglass,  who  had  relieved 
Dr.  Howe,  was  present  when  death  came. 

The  funeral  will  take  place  at  Amesbtrry. 
Mass..  at  2.30  Saturday. 

Ac-ording  to  tbe  Quaker  custom  there  will  be 
no  sermon  preached  at  the  18111011  over  tbe 
hodr.   The  cremonies"  wW  be  quite  simple. 

The  bells  in  Amexbuxy.  Mr.  Whittier's  late 
home,  were  tolled  this  forenoon  when  the  news 
of  his  deatii  was  received  tbata. 

expressions *'pr  BOBBOW. 

Havcrhtll  lieeydy   Grieved  by  the  Sad  Jtowa 
froQi 


Havirhilu  Mass.,  Sept,  7.  The  news  of  the 
death  of  John  G.  Whittle*  he*  been  received 
bare  with  universal  reelings  of  sadness  sad  re- 
gret. Tho  City  Hall  bell  wee  struc*  elghty- 
fonr  times  at  eiyht  oelocx  es  indicating  the  age 
ol  the  deceased,  :\nd  tings  on  the  buildings  and 
also  on  the  schoolhousss  were  displayed  at 
half-mast  as  a  token  of  respect  for  the  poet 


TBS   POET'S    UTS. 

"And  while  in  life's  Into  afternoon. 

Where  cool  and  lens;  the  shadows  grow, 
I  walk  to  meet  the  night  that  soon 
•Shall  shape  and  shadow  overflow, 
I  cannot  feel  that  tbow  art  fax, 
-evince  near  at  hand  the  angels  are ; 
And  when  the  sunset  gates  unbar. . 
.'Shall  I  not  see  thee  watting  stand, 
And  white  against  the  even  ing  star. 
The  welcome  oi  thy  beckoning  hand" 
[Snow -Bound. 


113 

always  had  a  weekly  newspaper,  and  when 
yonng  Garrison  started  his  Tree  Press  at  New- 
buryport,  he  took  it  In  the  place  of  the  Haver- 
hill Gazette,  My  sister,  who  was  two  years  old- 
er than  myself,  sent  on*  of  my  poetical  at. 
tempts  to  the  editor.  Some  weeks  afterward  the 
newseanier  came  along  on  horseback  and  threw 
the  paper  oat  from  his  saddlebags.  My  uncle 
and  I  were  mending  fences.  I  took  up  the  sheet, 
and  'was  surprised  and  overjoyed  to  see  my 
lines  in  the  "poet* s  corner."  I  stood  gazing  at 
them  in  wonder,  and  my  uncle  had  to  call 
mo  several  times  to  my  work  before  I  could 
recover  myself.  Soon  ifat  Garrison  came  to 
our  farmhouse,  and  I  was  called  In  from  hoeing 
In  the  cornfield  to  see  him.  He  encouraged  me, 
and  urged  my  father  to  send  me  to  school.  1 
langed  for  education,  but  the  means  to  procure 
it  were  wanting.  Lncaily,  the  yonng  man  who 
worked  for  us  on  the  farm  in  summer  eked  out 
■his  snflfll  lB*come  by  making  ladles'  shoes  and 


Job*  Greenteal  Wntttte*,  one  of  the  sweetest  ■"»•»  to  *»  wln*«i  «"  1«ra*d  •n(on*h  "J 
iA-,»8«S*oflha  world's  poets,  died  at  4.30  *?*™*™"?^^?£?LXlth^ 


this  moraine-, at  the  residence  of  his  friend.  Miss 
Sarah  A.  Gove,  at  Hampton  Falls,  21.  H..  where 
be  has  been  passing  the  past  two  months. 

The  storr  of  Mr.  Whlttler*s  life  is  a  very  brief 
and  a  very  simple  one.    Ho  was  born  in  the 


a  term  of  six  months  In  the  Haverhill  Acade- 
my. The  next  winter  I  ventured  n  pon  another 
expedient  for  raising  money  and  kept  a  district 
school  in  the  adjoining  town  of  Amesbury, 
thereby  enabling  me  to  have  another  academy 
term.    The  next  winter  I  spent  in  Boston,  writ- 


beautiful  Merrimac  Valley,  trendies  out  from  — _  *""»  tLSZlzTrtT  T^'XiL 
the  market-town  of  Haverhill.  Ma*..  Deo.  7.  *S?J2***E:  %£ "s  ™  ?n 'h1T£ L° 
.«T    «».u-  __i_i.,~  v ~—.a  .11  *v« at  work -on  the  farm.  I  was  surprised  by  an 


1S07U  At-  his  primitive  homestead  all  things 
were  elementary  and  of  the  plainest  cast  Both 
his  parents  were  Quakers,  and  his  ancestors  on 
both  sides  had  belonged  to  the  Society  of  Friends 
tor  'manr  generation*.  John  Whittier,  the 
father  of  the  poet,  is  described  by  citizens  of 
Haverh 111  as  having  been  a  rough,  but  upright, 
kind-hearted  farmer.  His  neighbors  gave  him 
the  nickname  "Quaker  Whycher."  He  seems 
to  have  been  a  sturdy,  decided  person,  and 
deeply  religious.  There  was  no  Friends'  church 
In  Haverhill,  yet  Invariably  on  First  Days 
"Quaker  Why  Cher's"  abe-horae  chaise  could  be 
sawn  winding  towards  the  old  brown  meeting- 
houseiln  Amesbury,  six  mile*  away.  Accord- 
in*  to  the  poet,  one  of  the  reasons  why  bis 
mother  removed  to  Amesbury,  in  1840,  was  that 
She  mighfrbe  near  the  little  Friends'  "meeting" 
in  that- town,  v   ' 

Apropos  of  his  boyhood,  we  are  told  that 
IrMttfe^eveta.yhen  a,  Itttle  lad.  was  always 
writing  verses  Instead  of  doing  sums  on  his 
slate  in  school.  The'  reading  material  that 
came  into  his.  father's  house  consisted  of  the  al- 
manac add  the  weekly  Village  newspaper,  with 


invitation  to  take  charge  of  the  Hartford 
(Conn.)'  Review,  in  the  .  place  of  the  fa. 
mous  George  D.  Prentice,  who  had  removed  to 
Kentucky.  I  bad  sent  him  some  of  my  school 
"compositions,"  which  he  had  received  favor- 
ably. I  was  unwilling  to  lose  the  chance  of  do- 
ing something  more  in  accordance  with  mr 
taste,  and.  though  I  felt  my  unfitness  for  tlin 
place,  I  accepted  it,  and  remained  nearly  two 
years,  when  I  was  called  home  by  the  nines*  of 
my  father,  who  died  soon  after.  I  then  took 
chsrgc  of  the  farm  and  worked  hard  to  "make 
both  ends  meet;"  and,  aided  by  my  mother's 
and  sister's  thrift  and  economy,  in  some  meas- 
ure succeeded. 

-.  "As  a  member  of  the  Society  of  Friends,  I  had 
been  educated  to  regard  slavery  as  a  rreat'end 
t»u.    WHT-lMf  -sympathies    wero 
gly  enlisted  for  th*  oppressed  slaves  by  my 
ntimate  acquaintance  with  William  Lloyd  Gar- 
son.    When  the   latter   started   his   paper  In 
ermont      In      1828.      1    wrote    him     a     let. 
ir   commending    his  -views     upon     slavery, 
Intemperance    and    war,    and     assuring    him 
that     bo       wns       destined      to      do      great 
was    a 


l»rheps  a  score  of  books  and  pamphlets,  among  thing,.  In  1933  i  WM  a  dele«rate  to  the 
them LlndleyMemyV'Raoder'' and ftflwocd's  fir^  national  anti-slavery  convention  at  Phlle- 
^avidels.  or  the  Uta  of  DaTld,  King  of  Israel'  4e,phla.  IwM  one  0l  the  secretaries  of  the 
There  wa* nothing  to  learn  of  the  outer  world  sxmyention  and  signed  its  declaration.  In  1836 
except  from  the  eccentric  and  ofteffpioturesque  j  Whg  ln  the  Massachusetts  Legislature.  I  was 
stroller,  who  in  those;  days  peddled,  sang  or  fobbed  In  Concord.  N.  H..  in  company  with 
MdlodfromTillawtoXTillage.  Yet  the  boy's  ^^  Thompson,  afterward  member  of  the 
poetic  fancy  and  nsttvesense  of  rhythm  appar  3lritlf,h  Parliament,  and  narrowly  escaped  from 
ontly  wer*  not  inert.  He  listened  eagerly  to  ^^  dan(Wr,  i  Kept  Thompson,  whose  life  was 
the  provincial  traditions  and  legends— a  genn-  niteu  for.  concealed  In  our  lonely  farmhons* 
tee  folk-lore  recounted  by  his  elders  at  the  fire- 
side—and he  began  to  pot  his  thought  In  num- 
bers at  the  earliest  age. 

Of  his  early  literary  asp!  rations  and  the  events 
which  moulded  his  thoughts  and  guided  his 
pen  in  after  years  no '  batter  account  can  be 
given  than  the  modest,  simple  story  told  by 
bimsel  f  some  years  ago.  "When  1  was  f ourteeu 
years  old  my  first  schoolmaster.  Joshua  Coffin, 
the  able,  eccentric  historian  ot  Newbury. 
brought  with  him  to  our  house  a  volume  of 
Burns'  poems,  from  which  be  read,  greatly  to 
my  delight.  I  begged  him  to  leave  the  book 
with  me,  and  setmyself  at  once  to  the  task  of 
mastering  the  glossary  of  the  Scottish  dialect 
at  its  close;  'This  was  about  the  first  poetry  I 
had  ever  read— with  the  exoeption  of  that  of  the 
Bible,  of  wbleh  I  had  been  s  close  student— and 
It  had  a  lasting  influence  upon  ma  I  began  to 
make  rhymes  myself,  and  to  imagine  stones  and 
adventures.  -  In  fact.  I  lived  a  sort  of  dual  life, 


for  two  w«eka,  I  was  In  Boston  during  the 
great  mob  in  Washington  street,  soon  after, 
and  was  threarr-ned -.  witn .  personal  violenco.. 
ln  1837 1  was  in  .New  York,  in  conjtmetion-with 
Henry  B.  St  an  tot  and  Theodore  D.  Weld,  in  the 
office  ol  tho  American  Ann-Slavery  Society.  The 
next  year  I  took  charge  of  the  Pennsylvania  Free- 
man, an  organ  of  the  Anti-Slavery  Society.  My 
office  wn  »  sacked  and  burned  by  a  mob  soon  after, 
but  I  continued  my  paper  until  my  health  failed, 
» ben  I  returned  to  Massachusetts.  The  farm 
m  Haverhill  had  In  the  meantime  been  sold, 
aud  my  mother,  aunt  and  youngest  sister  had 
moved  to  Amesbury.  near  the  Friends'  Meeting 
House,  and  I  took  up  my  residence  with  them. 
All  this  time  t  bad  been  actively  engaged  in 
writiag  for  the  anti-slavery  cause.  In  1833  I 
printed  at  my  own  expense  an  edition  of  my 
first  pamphlet,  "Justice  and  Expediency." 
With  the  exception  ot  a  few   dollars   from   the 


said  in  a  world  of  tancv,  at  wall  as  In  the  world   Democratic  Review  and  Buckingham's  Mass 
•f  plain  matter  of  fact  about   ma    My  father    zine,  I  received  nothing  for  my  poems  and  lit- 


erary articles.  Indeed,  my  pronounced  views 
on  slavery,  made  my  name  too  onpopahvr  for  a 
publisher's  uses.  I  edited  ln  1844  the  Middlesex 
Standard,  and  afterward  became  associate  edi- 
tor of  the  National  Era  at  Washington.  I  early 
saw  the  necessity  ot  separate  political  action  on 
the  part  of  abolitionists,  and  was  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  liberty  party—  the  germ  of  the 
present  Republican  party. 

In  1867  an  edition  of  my  complete  poems  up 
to  that  time  was  published  by  T1cknor&  Fields, 
"In  War  Time"  followed  ln  1884,  and  ln  1888 
"Snow  Bound"  In  I860 1  was  cheese  a  l 
berof  the  electoral  college  of 
snd  also  in  1884,  I  have  been  a  member  of  the 
board  of  overseers  of  Harvard  Cojtaga  and  a 
trustee  of  Brown  University.  Bat  white  feeling 
and  willing  to  meet  all  the  responsibilities  of 
citizenship,  and  deeply  interested  in  question* 
which  concern  the  welfare  and  honor  ot  tho 
country,  I  have  as  a  rule  declined  overtures  for 
acceptance  of  public  stations.  I  have  always 
taken  an  active  part  in  elections,  but  have  not 
been  willing  to  add  my  own  example  to  the 
greed  of  office. 

"I  have  been  a  member  of  the  Society  of 
Friends  by  birthright,  and  by  a  settled  convic- 
tion of  the  truth  of  its  principles  and  the  impor- 
tance of  its  testimonies,  while  at  the  seme  time 
I  have  a  kind  feeling  toward  all  those  who  are 
seeking,  in  different  ways  from  mine,  to  serve 
God  and  benefit  their  fellow-man.  Neither  of 
my  sisters  is  living.  My  dear  mother,  to  whom 
I  owe  much  every  way,  died  in  1868."    . 

The  above  is  the  modest  story  of  a  man  whom 
the  country  delighted  to  honor  and  whose 
birthday  has  for  the  past  few  years  been  eete 
brated  on  its  annual  recurrence  not  only  by  the 
school  children  throughout  the  tend,  with 
whom  his  melodious  and  simple  Terse  baa  al- 
ways been  a  favorite,  but  by  tho  Isarttng  poets 
and  writers.  Indeed.bnt  little  remains  to  be  add- 
ed. His  quiet  and  uneventful  lite  at  bis  home 
in  Danvers  has  often  bean  described.  The 
occasional  poems  that  came  from  his  pan 
In  later  years  have  bean  eagerly  read  and 
widely  copied,  and  although  ago  and  increas- 
ing infirmities  bad  rendered  latter  writing  a 
task,  he  still.  Almost  up  to  the  test,  eoatbned  to 
send  out  loving  greetings  to  old  friends,  and  to 
write  words  of  encouragement  in  aid  of  any 
cause  in  which  he  was  interested.  We  believe 
that  the  last  tetter  ha  over,  indicted  was  the 
congratulatory  note  to  Dr.  Holmes  on  bis 
eighty -third  birthday  anniversary. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  bis  published  works 
in  the' order  of  their  appearance  In  print:  "Leg- 
ends of  New  England,"  1831 :  "Justioa  and  Ex- 
pediency" (a  pamphlet  on  the  slave  question), 
1888;  "MogMegooe,"  1836:  "Ballads,"  1888; 
"Lays  of  My  Home,  and  Other  Poems,"  1843; 
"The  Stranger  in  Lowell. "1048;  "Vaernatur- 
alism  in  New  England,"  1847;  "The  Bridal  of 
Pennacook,"  1848;  "The  Voices  ot  Freedom" 
and  "Leaves  from  Margaret  Smith's  Journal." 
1849;  "Songs  of  Labor  and  Other  Poems"  and 
"Old  Portraits  and  Modern  Sketches."  1850; 
"The  Chapel  of  the  Hermits,"  1888;  "Literary 
Recreations  and  Miscellanies,"  ISM:  "The Pan- 
orama and  Other  Poems."  1868;  "Homo  Ballads 
and  Other  Poems."  1880;  "In  War  Time,  and 
Other  Poems,"  "National  Lyrics "  and  "Maud 
Muller."  1883:  "Snow-Bound."  1888;  "Tent  on 
the  Beach,  and  Other  Poems, ""1887:  "Among 
the  Hills,  and  Other  Poems,"  1868]  "Miriam, 
and  Other  Poems,"  1670;  "The  Pennsylvania 
Pilgrim,  and  Other  Poems."  187*:  "Mabel  Mar- 1 
tin."  1874;  "Hazel  Blossoms,"  1875:  "The 
King's  Missive,  and  Other  Poems."  1881;  "The 
Bay  ot  8even  Islands."  1888 ;  "Jack  In  the  Pnl- 
ptt."  1884;  and  St.  Gregory's  Guest,  and  Recant 
Poems,"  1888, 

Since  this  time  a  number  of  single  pi 
have  been  published  in  the  magazines 
newspapers. 

A  recent  visitor  thus  describes  the 
appearance  ot  the  poet:    "In  personal  lapssar- 
ance  Whittier  Is  remarkable.     Tail,    end  aa 


straight  as  one  of  the  roans  pines  in  his  favor- 
ite grove;  it  iiwii  lnposstblo  that  be  U  about 
mt  too  end  of  ton  obom  years.  The  crown  of 
his  bead  is  bald,  and  his  hair  Is  glossv  silver, 
but  hi»  gsoat  black  eyes  are  as  clear,  bright  and 
ptareinc  self  ha  were  fa  the  prime  of  Ufa.  Ha 
walk*  with  tb*  deliberation  and  dlcatty  of  ace. 
bat  without  a  suggestion  of  physical  feeble- 
ness, and  while  he  remains  standing  bis  bead  is 
as  finely  poised  at  a  soldier's.  '  The  straichtness 
of  bis  figure  is  the  mora  noticeable  on  account 
of  bis  Quaker  dress,  the  coat  of  which  flto  him 
as  neatly  and  olesslr  as  if  It  war*  the  eonven- 
tional  'swallow  talL'  When  seated  and  listen- 
lac;  bis  bead  drops  slightly  forward  and  aside 
—a  pose  which  seems  peculiar  to  poetlo  natures 
tba  world  over.  Ha  is  a  most  appreotatiYe 
reader  of  other  men's  books  and  poems,  and 
talks  admirably  of  all  rood  wri  tin**,  except  his 
own,  of  which  be  can  scarcely  be  persuaded  to 
speak,  eren  to  his  dearest  Intimates." 

His  brother.  Matthew  Franklin,  who  died  a 
few  years  aco  left  oaa  son,  who  is  the  only 
immediate  relative  of  the  poet  bearinc  tba 
family  name.  On  Oct.  M,  1884.  a  portrait  of 
Mr.  Whittier.  painted  by  Edgar  Parker  of  Bos- 
ton, was  presented  to  the  Friends'-  School  at 
Providence,  R  L  The  donor  was  Mr.  Charles 
C.  Coffin  of  Lynn,  Masa,  who  was  a  pupil  In  the 
school  fifty  years  sco  and  afterwards  a  teacher, 
now  dead.  The  portrait,  which  now  bancs  in 
Alumni  Hall,  is  life-else,  and  represents  the 
poet  as  seated  In  an  arm-chair  in  an  attitude 
of  peaceful  tboncht.  On  the  occasion  of  the 
presentation,  an  address  was  delivered  by  Pres- 
ident Cbase  of  Hartford  College.  A  letter  from 
Minister  Lowell  centaininc  the  folio  wine  son  nee 
was  read: 


New  England's  poet,  rich  la  (bye  as  years, 
"  ir  hills  and  vaUe 
brooks 


Her  hills  and  valleys  praise  thee,  and  her 


Dance  to  thy  sjoac ;  to  her  crave  sylvan  nooks 
Thy  leet  allure  as,  which  the  woodthrush  hears 
As  maids  their  lovers,  and  no  treason  fear*. 

Through  thee  hsr  Merrlmaes  and  Agioo- 
chooks. 

And  many  a  nam*  uncouth,  win  loving  looks, 
Sweetly  familiar  to  both  Englands'«ears. 

Peaceful  by  blrthritnt  as  a  Virgin  lake.  ,,' 

The  lily's  anchorure.  which  no  eyes  heboid  i 

Bare  those  of  stars,  yet  for  thy  brothers'  sakie. 
That  lay  in  bonds,  tbcra  blew'st  a  blast  as  bold 

As  that  wherewith  the  heart  of  Roland  braJrje. 
Far  heard  through  Pyreaaan  valleys  cold. 


Slew  fades  tu*  vision  of  the  sky. 
The  golds*  water  pales. 

And  over  all  the  valley  land 
A  gray-winged  vapor  sat  Is. 


I  l-o  the  confmon  war  of  all; 
nevt  fires  will  born, 
ersjfiiLblow.  th*ijdaB*flMr_ 


I     itJW  lyiej  mora  ftNnn 
No  whisper  from  the  me 

Not  lapsing  stream  shall 
The  stranger,  treading  wi 

Of  him  who  loved  then* 
Bnt  beauty  seen  is  never  I 

God's  colors  all  are  fasti 
The  glory  of  this  sunset  M 

Into  my  son!  has  passed- 
A  sense  of  gladness  onconf 

To  mortal  data  or  aline: 
As  the  soul  llveth,  it  shall  live  .      *A 

beyond  the  years  of  time. 
Beside  the  mystlo  asphodels 

Shall  bloom  tba  home-born  flowers. 
And.  new  horizons  flash  and  clow    , 

With  sunset  hues  of  ours. 

rwhlttte. 


i  rtn 
-D 

9d— '•""^T'^i,. 

■onflned^l 

na:  i 


\srsti 


STORIES  OF  l^JTTJffc.' 

Hia;  Winters   In  Bostbn  — TJUBtm  potn- 

metLts  an  City  Life— '.A  Last    Word. 

When  Mrs.  CeliaThaiter  was  boaTdTnc  at  tho 
little  English-like  itra  on  the  sunny  slope  of 
Beacon  Hill  called  Hotel  Winthrop,  Mr.  Whit- 
tier  went  there  one  day  to  sea  h*r.\  Mrs.  Thai  ■ 
ter  liked  the  quiet  place,  with  Its  ivied  win 
dow  and  its  grll  m  pse  of  the  strong,  short,  (freer. 
draped  tcwer-' St.  John  the  Evangelic*'',  and 


114 

she  praised  it  to  her  old  friend.  That  was  s«me 
time  in  1681,  and  in  November  of  that  year  he 
joined  his  Oak  Knoll  cousins.  Mrs.  Woodman 
and  her  daughter  and  the  Misses  Johnson,  at 
the  Winthrop.  The  ladies  of  bis  family  came 
in  September,  bnt  Mr.  Whittier  did  not  join 
them  until  November.  He  said  that  h*  did  not 
want  to  lose  his  vote  In  Ainesbtur* 

It  was  a  winter  full  of  pleasure  to  the  poet. 
He  was  not  then  too  feeble  to  go  out  evenings 
and  he  spent  many  pleasant  hours  with  friends 
like  the  Claflns  and  others.  But  tho  hours  in 
the  parlor  of  the  hotel  make  the  place  historic 
and  give  it  a  special  Interest  and  meaning  for 
bis  future  biographer.  Mr.  Wblftier  had  room 
14  (the  number  of  a  sonnet's  lines,  tw'ce  seven. 
with  luck  for  a  poet!)  and  the  fire  escaoe  made 
a  little  balcony  for  him  on  a  corner  towards 
St.  John's.  The  landlord  had.  a  door 
cnt  through  the  thick  old  wall  to  the  rooms 
adjoining  and  those  were  the  roams  of  Mrs. 
Woodman  and  the  rest  It  is  old  Boston,  deci- 
dedly In  that  quarter.  The  brick  of  the  houses 
is  mellow  old  red  and  there  la  nothing  very 
new-fangled  anywhere  about  Mr.  Whittier 
said  be  preferred  coming  here  rather;  than  to 
one  of  the  big  hotels  because  there  he  was  "over- 
whelmed with  the  service"  and  here  it  seemed 
"more  like  Amesbnry"  where  people  "are  neigh- 
borly and  drop  la  without  knocking."  He  bad 
"always  been  used  to  watttac  upon  himself" 
snd  he  "liked  being  in  a  plaoe  where  they 
would  let  him." 

It  was  his  custom  nominee  to  come  dew*  Into 
the  little  reception  room  on  the  street  floor  and 
'  'sitting  right  in  that  chair  where  you  *re 
sitting"  as  the  writer  was  told,  he  "used  to  read 
his  letters  and  throw  all  the;  papers  in  a  pile  on 
the  floor  and  go  off  and  leave  them."  That 
little  room  was  a  great  place  of  congregation 
for  "the  family"  as  the  bCmrders  who  wore 
therewith  Mr.  Whittier  like'  to  call  themselves. 

The  poet  would  sit  on  the  sofa  with  a  favored 
one  on  each  side  of  him  and'the  rest  in  a  croup 
about,  "often  on  footstools'  or  on  the  floor,  as 
Ilka  as  no*."  while  be  "told  stories  of  war 
times."  General  Stevens  was  there  daring  one 
of  tba  poet's  long  stays:  he  had  bean  a  class- 
mate of  General  Lea  and  of '  Jefferson  Davis  at 
West  Point,  and  he  and  the  abolition  poet  dis- 
cussed these  man  and  their  times  from  the 
broader  view  af  later  days. 

A  lady  who  was  one  of  that  "family"  tails  a 
story  of  seetac  In  the  morning  paper,  one  day,  a 
paragraph  to  the  effect  that  "a  certain  widow" 
was  likely  by  persevering  efforts  to  succeed  In 
becoming  Mrs.  Whittier.  When  she  went  down 
to  dinner  that  day  the  poet  was  seated  at  table 
with  a  stranger  from  the  country  and  her  three 
handsome  boys.  Ha  was  allv  devotion  tot  the 
party.  He  buttered  the  children's  bread  and 
ordered  jam.  to  top  the  butter.  Everything  on 
the  bill  of  fare  was  provided  .for  the  boys 
and  their  mother  and  "more  nuts  and 
raisins"  called  for.  When  they  were 
gone  and  the  family  had  '  assembled 
In  the  parlor  where  the  .evenings  were 
spent,  across  the  ball  from  the  morning-room 
the  lady  who  had  cut  the  paragraph  read  it 
merrlrr  to  the  party;  saying, '**!"»ro«»,whs*-w» 
saw  at  dinner  today,  it  seems  as  if  this  story 
of  the  widow  may  bo  true."  Mr.  Whittier 
laughed  with  the  rest  then  said,  seriously  and 
with  that  srnesre  modesty  which  was  his  life- 
long charm.  "That  lady  Drought"  her  boys  forty 
miles  to  sea  me.  I  don't  know  what  there  Is 
about  me  that  would  make  anybody 
want  to  come  forty  miles  to  saa  me." 
The  stranger  had  arrived  about  dinner 
time  on  the  pilgrinace  with  her  boys,  and  had 
been  cordially  Invited  to  stay  to  dinner  by  the 
bosultable  poet  She  told  taa  housekeeper  that 
she  had  felt  as  though  she  "could  not  let  Whit- 
tier cat  old  and  die  without  seeing  htm  and 
having  her  boys  aae  him." 

Onoe  a  friend,  a  lady  who  had  sense  property 
in  Virginia,  wrote  Mr  Whittier  of  having 
named  a  street  tn  a  new  town  for  bin.  and  of 


having  set  aside  a  portion  of  around  la  bis 

nana.     Ha      replied     with 

that    ba    bad    that    weak 

of      no      lees       than    '  three 

streets     being     named     foWbha 

gift  of  town  lota,  adding:  "If  this  sort  of  thine 

goes  on  much  longer  I  shall  ba  land  poor. " 

During  the  winters  he  was  aj  The  Wtatinwe 
Mr.  Whittiar's  favorite'  way  df  getting  about 
waslnaherdlc  They. ware  '■pit': pretty.'' but 
they  "knew  the  way  to.  places.";  Politicians 
used  to  go  there  to  see  him  and  try  to  cat  him 
to  banquets.  But  his  ■  life-long  avoidance  of 
politics  in  the  minor  sense  made  him  easily  re 
sist  their  wiles.  "I  have  seen/Mr.  —  (a  wall- 
known  name)  come  here 'andY  Just  about  go 
down  on  bis  knees  to*  ret  Mr.  Whittier  to 
speak  or  even  to  .  cone  to  a  banquet,'* 
says  the  landlord  (who.  la- by.  tba  way  an  old- 
timely  character  worthy  of  a. novelist's  nan), 
"but  Mr.  Whittier  would  Just  aft  there  -right  la 
that  chair  you  're  in— add  .  kind  of  "smile  to 
himself  as  if  to  saf.  ."  "Oh ,  your  talk 
don't    amount-  to    anything f      .frail,     once 

Mr.    came     here     and     stayed     and 

stayed  a-talklng  and  persuading,  and  cava  Mr. 
Whittier  an  ear-ache  If  ever' a  nan.  bad  one. 
But  be  didn't  make  anything  by  it,  although 
be  finally  had  to  take  is  bad  and  stay  all 
algbt"  ■'" ','     '  .      ■■* 

"The  poets  used  to  send  him  thai?  new  books 
of  poems,"  said  another  speaker.  ""Sometimes 
he  would  get  several  at  a  time -In  his  mail. 
One  mornlnc  ha  just  wrote  his  name  an  all  that 
came  and  gave  then  to  ny  daughter."  Right 
here  must  be  given  a  most  characteristic  letter, 
written  by  the  poet  later  to  this  lady  when  she 
was  starting  on  a  journey  to  California:     *,- 

My  dear  Mrs.  Cole— I  trust  thee  will  have  a 
very  pleasant  journey  to  the  Pacific  Slope.  It  la 
the  right  season  of  the  year  and  the  scenery  on 
the  way  is  delightful.  I  an  told.  I  wish  tba 
Pilgrim  Fathers  bad  drifted  round  Cape  Horn 
and  landed  at  Santa  Barbara  instead  of  Ply- 
mouth and  I  had.  in  consequence,  been  born  la 
a  land  of  flowers- instead  of  lee.  I  have  hard 
tines  with  colds  the«past  winters  and  have 
been  confined  to  the  house  a  great  part  of  the 
time,  but  am  aow  feeling  better.  Thy  daughter 
will  be  glad  to  see  thee  fn  her  new  bene.  Give 
my  love  to  ber.  With  all  good  wishes  to  thee. 
I  am  thy  friend.  '_ 

Jorx  G.  WBrYtica. 

He  bad  a  birthday  celebration  wb lie- at  The 
Winthrop  and  it  is  one  of  the  treasured  legends 
of  the  house  that  it  was  "tilled  with  flowers  for 
once. "  There  are  memories  for  every  one  'who 
was  ever  associated  with  him  of  Mr.  Whittier** 
kindness  and  consideration  for  those  about 
him.  He  thought  of  himself  last  and  ha  loved 
human  kind  not  only  in  tba  abstract  but  tn 
the  associations  of  daily  Ufa  "Bis  almost  apol- 
ogetic letter  to  his  landlord  shows  his  thought- 
fulness.  X  o  wonder  the  recipient  treasures  tba 
following  letter  which  be  Intends  bequeathina 
to  the  Boston  Museum  when*  his  own  days  on 
earth  are  done:-  .* 

AacasBtrar.  Srd  Me*  19. v 

Dear  Mr.  Kaleher—  I  am  sorry.  t«  bay* thee 

.  ton  eemlneTothaWln'tnroj^I 
to  thee  for  remitting  them.  I  miss  1 
'Inthrop  a  good  deal.  I  found  It  a  com  rortabH 
home  and  I  have  a  very  pleasant  memory  01 
landlord  and  gnests.  Please  give  mv  regards 
to  mich  of  tho  latter  as  remain,  aodaaaure  them 
1 1  am  not  likely  to  forget  our  pleasant  evening* 
In  the  parlor.  Winter  holds  on  with  a  light 
grip  here  still.  There  is  some  anew,  but  mora 
!  toe.  Thine  truly. 

John  G.  WHn-rrgK. 
Here  is  an  extract  from  a  letter  written  after 
ibis   last  winter  in   Boston.    He  had  hoped  to 
!  come  Into  town  again,  but  gave  it  up.  ""This  is 
Written  in  November  of  1884: 

I  hope  Mr.  Keleher  does  not  keep  my  room  for 
me,  as  I  shall  not  be  able  to  occupy  it  My 
health  Is  not  as  good  as  last  year,  and  all  the 

chano^s  of  our  very  changeable  season  affect 

rof .  I  shall  hope  to  look  in  upon  you  sometime. 
•  though  I  shall  miss  some  of  the  last  winter's 
Fu'sfJ»~ the  dear,  good  general  especially,  but- 
1  shall  see  all  who  remain.  The  social  atney 
sphere  of  the  hotel  I  greatly  enjoyed, TS 


1 

yof 


Butthe  letter  which  ii  of  most  recant  date  is 
irnat  affecting,  m  it  shows  how  he  loved  life  to 
Lite  last: 

My  Dear  Mrs.Cole—  I  thank  thee  for  bo  kindly 
remembering:  me  New  Year's  Day.  My  bftaHfi 
does  not  allow  me  to  do  much  reading  or  »rt*- 
lug.  and  I  can  only  make  oriel  return.  Iaa 
u-aring  my  82nd  year  and  I  feel  the  burden  of 
a*»,  but  I  am  thaakfnl  that  I  can  lore  my 
fiends  and  Mature  as  well  aa  ever,  and  that 
Hr  Jt  four-icon  it  worth  Home.  With  the 
%ot   .-{shea  of  the  Mason. 

I  am  thy  friend. 
*HHO.  Wi 


_  Whlttier's  lack  of  self-consciousness  was  al- 
-„.»!§  marked.  Ha  was  not  the  kind  of  man 
capable  of  asking,  "Do  yoa  knew  who  I  am 7" 
of  any  of  God's  creature*.  Ha  was  greatly 
touched  once  to  hear  of  a -volume  of  his  poetry 
In  the  hands  of  a  Southern  fraadmaa,  adding, 
"I  had  nt  realized  they  even  got  as  fax  away 
from  home  as  Virginia,"  He  was  never  a  trav- 
eller. Sometimes  he  got  as  far  away  from  home 
as  the  White  Mountains. 

"Did  I  erer  tell  yoa  my  experience  with 
Whlttier?"  says  a  Boston  business  man.  ''Well. 
I  was  at  North  Conway  one*  and  I  fall  in  with 
an  old  fellow  different  from  anybody  I  had  ever 
seen  out  walking.  I  was  around  with 
him  for  an  hour  and  ha  was  talking  all  the 
time  about  the  things  ha  saw,  the  spray  on 
the  falls  and  such  things.  Ha  would 
pleknpalaaf  and  say  how  pretty  it  was,  c*-a 
piece  of  stick  and  talk  about  that.  I  had  nerer 
got  hold  of  anybody  Ilka  him.  Dent  Jet  It  get 
out,  bat  I  called  it  Nancy-ism  to  myself  I  Yes. 
I  said  to  myself.  1 11  find  out  who  this  nice  old 
Miss  Nancy  is,  that  keeps  calling  things  pretty.' 
And  when  we  got  baok  to  the  office  of  the  hotel 
I  asked  a  man,  'Know  that  old  fellow's  name 7* 
•Yes,*  said  he,  that  '*  John  G.  W  hittler.'  Wall, 
I  was  crashed  completely."       „    '   ' 

.   JOHN    GREENLEAF   WHITHER. 

It  is  tot  easy,  in  our  oniet  tii-nes.  to  estimate 
as  is  dwarves  such  servicn  as  Whittior  has  ren- 
dered to  his  country.  It  is  a  service  such  at  ho 
never  dreamed  of  himself,  oven  In  those  hopeful 
days  of  his  youth  which  he  !>!»>>  so  well  de- 
scribed, When  to  his  delight  he  first  saw  his 
own  vnrsos  in  the  "Poet's  Corner"  of  Garrison's 
Free  Press,  he  had  no  thought  that  it  was  an  a 
poet  that  he  was  to  he  remembered  and  loved 
for  generations.  The  young  people  of  otrrowT 
time  value  him  and  keep  at  heart  verses  of  hi.v 
which  speak  best  for  tbem  their  best  emotions. 
Bat  they  cannot  carry  themselves  back  to  day* 
of  storm,  when  the  oonntry  needed  men  as  brav  i 
as  he  to  speak  Its  best  hope  and  '<■■■ 
giro  to  it  true  courage,  when  « 
signs  of  the  times  were  of  the  darkest.  TB«- 
is  no  holiday  poet  who  stepped  out  from  < 
bower  when  the "j fight  was  over  with  a  pre"  p 
copy  of  verses  forjthe-conqueror.  He  was  reatfji 
to  be  In  the  thick  Of  the  fight,  though  he 
scorned  the  soldier's  weapons  of  war.  be  was 
a  child  of  the  people,  and  he  spoke  and  sang  for 
the  people  to  |bo  people.  He  knew  that  the 
republic  could  not  stand  on  any  foundations 
which  tried  to  rest  on  a  hog  of  compromise; 
and.  whether  the  sky  Were  dark  orelear,  hit 
clarion  voice  rang  outin  words  of  absolute  truth 
and  simplicity.  ,  ■      '  '■ 

It  is  this  readiness  to  serve  at  any  and  every 
moment  which  endears  him  to  all  men  and 
women,.  Nor  can  anyone  rightly  rate  his  ser- 
vice to |  his  time,  who  cannot  look  back  far 
enough  'to  see  how  much  snch  a  voice  was 
needed  In  times  of  dontit 

Such  a  life  has  ■  been  spared,  thank  God, 
for  efficient  service  which  covers  more  than 
seventy  yean— more  than  two  generations  of 
men.  In  all  that  time,  wherever  the  pressure 
has  heen  the  hardest  or  the  sky  the  darkest, 
some  word  has  come  from  him  of  warning,  of 
encouragement  or  of  direction.  Here  la  a  good 
lesson,  therefore,  far  those  doubting  Thomases, 
who  at  oollece  commencements  or  after  defeat 
at  elections,  tell  as  that  In  oar  fieroe  democracy 


115 

men  ef  tho  finest  mould  and  of  the  divine  affin- 
ities find  no  fit  place  unless  they  attempt  the 
duties  of  the  men  who  administer  Government 
When  we  are  told  thus  that  poets  and  other 
seers  ought  to  seek  places  In  city  councils  or  in 
senates,  it  is  well  that  we  can  remember  Whit-' 
tier,  and  the  positive  and  evident  service  which 
for  seventy  years  he  has  rendered  to  the  people 
and  to  tho  nation.  The  leaders  lead,  and  he 
has  been  one  of  the  leaders  aa  truly  as  if  he 
had  worn  the  stars  of  a  commander  in-chief  on 
his  shoulders. 

Indeed,  it  Is  only  a  maa  who  Is  in  the  thick  of 
life  who  knows  what  life  is,  or  can  interpret  its 
moods  to  others.  And  the  young  men  who  flat- 
ter themselves  that  hy  sitting  at  home  and 
reading  nootry  and  counting  syllables  and 
talking  to  each  other  about  artistlo  form  and 
cadence  and  the  sohool  of  Thingumbob  they 
will  ever  become  the  poets  of  a  people,  and  live 
in  men's  hearts  for  generations,  will  do  well  if 
they  read  and  inwardly  consider  a  life  like 
Whlttier's.  It  Is  the  working  editor  of  a  strug- 
gling newspaper  who  knows  enough  of  the  re- 
alities to  write  the  ode  to  "Democracy. "  It  Is 
a  man  who  has  seen  democracy  behind  and  be- 
fore, and  from  the  inside.  It  Is  a  man  who  has 
taken  a  half-cord  of  wood  In  payment  for  two 
years'  subscription  to  hli  paper,  adjusted  the 
rhymes  of  his  verses  while  he  was  guiding  his 
plough,  who  has  learned  to  make  ladles'  shoes 
so  that  he  may  pay  for  three  months  at  the 
academy— it  Is  snch  a  man  who  writes  anode 
to  democracy  which  gets  Itself  repeated  as  men 
chop  their  wood  and  haul  It  te  market,  or  at 
they  fling  their  hooks  and  lines  off  thesehooner 
in  the  fog. 

Dr.  Holmes  has  taught  us  that  the  poet  re- 
membered by  the  most  is  he  whose  songs  are 
sacred  enough  to  be  sung  in  men's  churches, 
while  they  are  simple  enough  for  men  and 
women  of  all  sorts  and  conditions  to  remember 
them  and  want  to  sing  them.  He  has  shown 
that  of  the  English  poets  of  the  last  century  It 
Is  not  your  grand  quarto-print! ng  Thomson  or 
Somervllle,  dedicating  their  poems  to  forgotten 
noblemen,  who  is  most  widely  quoted  today. 
Not  even  Cowper  or  Alexander  Pope,  the  king 
of  them  all.  it  is  dear  Doctor  Watts,  of  whom 
a  hundred  lines  come  to  memory  and  lip  for  one 
from  the  stately  poems,  who  is  familiarly  re- 
membered. Both  Dr.  Holmes  and  Mr.  Whit- 
tler  have  achieved  for  themselves  such  success 
as  Is  thus  described.  In  each  ease  the  success  Is 
duo  to  the  writer's  habit  of  personal  and  hearty 
Intimacy  with  all  torts  and  conditions  of  men. 

Yet  more  than  one  of  Whlttier's  hymns— most 
of  those  best  known— were  written  with  no 
thought  by  the  "Quaker  Poet"  that  they  would 
be  sung  in  "meeting."  What,  indeed,  would 
George  Pox  have  said  had  ha  been  told  that 
within  two  centuries  after  his  Journey  through 
Now  England,  the  songs  of  a  New  England 
"Friend"  would  be  sung  in  every  "steeple 
house"  in  New  England,  not  to  say  In  every 
"steeple'  house"  in  Old  England?  Whlttier 
wrote,  not  that  men  might  sing— not,  indeed, 
that  they  might  praise  him— but  because  this 
thing  had  to  be  said,  and  he  would  say  it  as 
well  aa  he  could  say  it  there  and  then. 

In  hundreds  of  churches,  thousands  of  wor- 
shippers sing  and  remember  the  hymn— 
"O  fairest  born  of  love  and  light," 
and  thank  him  for  It  The  fine  verses  thus 
known  so  widely  were  selected  by  his  friend, 
Samuel  Longfellow,  from  the  ode  te  "Democ- 
racy." which  Whlttier  wrote  In  1843,  on  "elec- 
tion day."  There  are  but  few  men  who  could 
tell  us  what  the  issues  of  that  election  were. 

What  is  certain  Is  that  what  generally  called 
Itself  democracy  in  that  day  was ,  something  of 
a  very  Indifferent  pattern.  It  was  a  democracy 
linked  in  the  closest  bonds  with  the  slave-driv- 
ing propensities  of  a  handful  of  Southern  oli- 
garchs. .  Mr.  Longfellow  selected  five  verses 
from  the  ode,  and  gave  to  them  the  fit  name 
"Christianity."  Whlttier  had  given  to  them 
the  motto  of  all  true  Christianity  and  all  true 
democracy.  "All  things  whatsoever  ye  would 


that  men  should  do  to  yoa,  do  ve  even  so  to 
them ;"  and  the  hymn  had  the  beat  possible  right 
to  its  new  name.  Such  is  a  good  enough  illus- 
tration, where  it  would  *  be  easy  to  give  a 
-hundred,  of-tue  penetration  by  a  profound  reli- 
gious spirit  one  might  say  of  every  line  which 
Mr.  Whlttier  has  published.  The  ballads  and 
songs  suggested  by  hints  from  New  England 
history  are  alive  with  this  light  which  shines 
on  one  who  has  seen  the  infinite  vision.  And 
so  the  world  has  the  fortunate  lesson  that  this 
man,  trained  in  that  sohool  of  absolute  religion 
which  looks  most  coldly  upon  written  creeds  or 
established  forms,  has.  In  the  seventy,  yean  of 
his  literary  life,  made  himself  the  spokesman 
of  men  and  women  of  every  religions  eom- 
munlon. 

It  is  true  that  Mr.  Whlttier  has  written  and 
has  printed  his  poems  with  utter  indlffereaoe 
to  his  own  reputation.  If  only  he  thought  to* 
occasion  demanded  the  poem,  or  thought  the 
poem  could  serve  the  duty  of  the  present  hour. 
He  has  lived  loyally  up  to  the  spirit  of  tho  high- 
est eulogy  ever  pronounced  In  words,  which 
I  says  of  the  Saviour.  "He  made  himself  of  ne 
reputation. "  It  is  dear  that  Ml,  Whlttier  never 
i  cared,  In  those  days  of  darkness,  whether  the 
poem  he  printed  had  or  bad  not  bean  filed  as  it 
should  be  filed,  whether  its  rhythm  ware  rough, 
or  iU  images  could  be  improved. 

"The  rigor  of  a  frosen  clime, 

The  harshness  of  an  untaught  ear, 

The  Jarring  words  of  one  whose  rhyme 
Beat  olteu  labor's  hurried  time. 

Or  duty's  rugged  march  through  storm  and 
and  strife,  are  here." 

Bat  as  he  says  again— 

"Yet  here  at  least  an  earnest  i 
Of  human  right  and  weal  is  shown; 
A  hate  of  tyranny  Intense 
And  hearty  In  its  vehemence  -  ■  > 

Aa  if  my  brother's  pain  and  sorrow  ware  my 
otrn." 

Indeed,  what  he  would  have*  liked  moat  would 
be  the  reputation,  which  he  certainly  has 
through  America,  of  being  the  poet  of  freedom 

"O  Freedom !  if  to  me  belong 
Nor  mighty  Milton's  gift  divine. 

Nor  Marvel's  wit  and  graceful  song. 
Still,  with  a  love  as  deep  and  I ' 


As  theirs,  I  lav.  like  them,  my  best  girts 

shrine  r  .  •       ».     , 

i  But  it  would  be  to  the  last  degree:  uajnet  to 
imply  that,  because  Ma.  Wntttler  began  hi* 
public  Hfe  when  he  was  driving 'tbapteaghjend 
making  slippers  for  women,  he  had  wot,  as  Ufa 
went  on,  need  the  advantages  of  the  'larger 
college  of  the  world)"  upon  whose  most  active 
courses  he  had  entered.  He  had  that  divine 
lyrlo  Impulse  to  which,  fortunately  for  us,  a 
fow  men  and  women  are  born  in  every  genera- 
tion, and  whloh  no  study  nor  painstaking  sap- 
piles.  To  this  his  real  passion  for  poetry  led 
him.  from  his  early  life,  to  add  whatever  a 
careful  study  of  the  English  peats,  not  only  of 
the  best  sohools,  but  of  all  schools,  would  give 
him.  And  there  was  no  man  in  our  dmle 
whr<ie  conversation  on  literary  subjects,  par* 
tiouiurly  such  w  involved  the  course  of  Eag> 
lii  poetry,  was  more  Interesting.  Modest  Hf 
thins!" degree,  ho  still  kne-v  what  ho  kaeWt* 
art  had  Ms  iloihrfte  ami  wei:  f onoed '  OTinion»n 

.'•  wan  in.  st  th«»Vtrhb{ttl  and  affectionate  Inl 
hi  convovs  ii  'ah  \- ■  i ),  voun:'or  men  imA  women* 
ail  t-;iv.j  np  )\\h  time  with  roekftem  safcrifice  itf 
f>iy  hen  ul<i  inspire  them.  Ho  nhow*d  'blnrt 
R"  t.Iuis  kfi  any  young  companion  as  oife  of  the» 
.est  iti.si  liish  nn»l  considerate  of  men  and  altj 
vemu  aspirants  in  literature  who  were  called, 
ino  activity  by  the  great  struggle  for'nationai 
rflstenco  and  th*  destruction  of  slavery,  knew? 
J,/u  they  would  Una  in  him  a  sympathetic*; 
e'visor.  '••  *       .  h  ,  j 

e|  had  at  Ono  time  a  large  class  ot  pupils,  well \ 
u  ,»d  ami  of  snflloleat  maturity  to  know  how  to-5 
.-* Misult  the  best  sources  of  English  literature. 

•iod  to  quicken   .heir  habits  of  reading  by, 
ir. u.  them  from  time-to  time,  as  an  ekerols* 
selection,  froai  t'.ie  whMe  body  of  English 
"'.'>:  kuoU  poems  a*  fitted  In  beet  with  the. 


'-  .-at  nnnivorsanes  in  onr  own  history.  Thus, 
1  vonlu  bid  them,  brine  me  illustrations 
fit  to  bs  read  or  suntr  oa  Forefathers' 
Dif ,  on  Independence  Day,-  on  -other  anniver- 
i  sales  of  ureal  events;  poems  fit  to  be  read  on 
j  ov  trreat  roligious  festivals,  or  on  onr  annual 
fa*s.  I  have  by  xne  now  the  collection  which 
th«e  reftders^-seouts,  may  I  say,  in  the  great 
op*  country  of  literature— broach t  In  answer 
to  inch  requests.  It  is  most  curious  to  see  how 
oi»n  it  proved  that  Whittle!  answered  the 
denand  for  something  at.  once  strong,  poet- 
icd  and.  -  American,— something  so  hopeful 
tint  young  people  would  like  to  read 
»rd  remember  it,  something  so  alive  with 
tn>  best  life  of  poetry  as  to  be  worthy  of 
thimes  so  noble  as  those  which  are  suggested 
byour  great"  anniversaries.  Since  that  experi- 
eme  of  a  generation  ago,  I  have  ranked  Whit, 
tiv  as  most  distinctly,  what  he  himself  asked 
Md  wished  to  be,'  the  poet  of  freedom.  It  is 
morally  idle  for.  us  to.  forecast  the  estimate 
which  the  future  ts  going  to  give  to  each  men. 
But  I  cannot  think  we  are  wrong  in  supposing 
Uat,  as  the  poet  of  freedom,  .Wbittler  and  his 
vines  are  to  bo  remembered  as  long  as  the 
people,  of  this  nation  are  true  to  the  prlnoiplee 
ot  which  it  is  founded. ' 

When,  in  1854,'the  .gods  made  mad  the  lead- 
em  of  the  Southern  Oligarchy  of  America,  and 
In  the  practical  business  of- the  settlement  of 
Kansas,  there 'Was  at  last  opened  'something 
which  the  men  and  women  of.  the  North  could 
do.  A  party  of  some  forty  New  Xnglanders  left 
Boston  for  what  wee  then .  .the  wilderness 
of  Kansas  with  the  prond  object '  of  mak- 
ing- a  free  State.  They  took  their  lives  in 
thtlr  hands,  and.  many  of  them  paid  with 
thslr  lives  for  that  noble  rashness  which 
sett  them  there,  in  defiance  of  the  whole  power 
of  the  national  government  as  it  was  then  ad- 
ministered. Some  of  the  wisest  men  of  the 
North  regarded,  this  adventure  as  madness. 
Forty  people,  with  a  capital  of  hardly  twenty 
thousand  dollars  behind  then,  .were  to  go  fif- 
teen hundred  miles,  to  defy  that  organization 
of  slaveholders  which,  from  .the  necessity  of 
th»  case,  would  act  with  absolute  unity  against 
thsm.  At  that  moment  tor:  Whittle*4. printed 
the  song  of  the  "Kansas  -JE migrants'* : 

'We  cross  the  prairie,  as  or  Old' 
Onr  fathers  crossed  the seskVi 
To  make  the  West,  a*  they  the  East, 
,    The  homestead  of  the  freej 

I  We  go  to  rear  a  wall  Of  moo- 
On  Freedom's  southern  line. 
And  plant  beside  the  cotton-tree 
•  The  ragged  northern  pine. 

Unbeerimr,  like  the  ark  of  old; 

The  Bible  In  onr  van,  '  .  ■'.  ' 

We  go  to  tost  the  truth  of  God 

Against  the  fraud  of  man.   > 

.  Ho  pause  nor  rest,  save  where  the  streams 
i    That  feed  the  Kansas  runt 
;  Save  where  our- pilgrim,  gonfalon 
Shall  ttout  the  setting  sun!"-,  7*j 

The  words  oi  thataong  were  song  in  railway 
ears  and  4n  cabins  built  of  soda  of  avad.  And 
Where  the  song  was  not  funr;  the-  words  were 
repented,  and  remembered  us  the  simple  and 
convenient  creed  of  the  movement  Whidh,  in 
fact,  was  the  first  Wave  of  the  flood  which 
overwhelmed  the  system  of  slavery.  To  per- 
ceive ar  the  install  the  impertanne  of  the 
movement,  to.  forecast  tta  Success,  and  to  en- 
courage  .those  who  personally  engaged  in  its 
hardships— this  was,  the  contribution  of  what 
we  call  a  seer  or  a  poet  in  the  great  struggle  of 
the  time.;  It  is  literally  by  a  thousand  such 
contributions  that  Mr.  Whlttler'made  his  mark 
in  that  great  revolution  which/  for  the  first 

.time,  made  the  United, SteitssA»*t'n>V  * 
Writing  these  hasty  words    at  the  moment 

when  Wbittler  has  Just,  passed  away,  It  is  I 
Impossible  to  mako  opy  litstetemeni  of  tbeplace 
whioh  this  great .  ngan  occupies  in  the  history 
of  our.time.  It  must  be  enough- to  .call  the  at- 
tentions of  yonng  men  and  women  to  the  lesson 
which  is  learned  when  one  seen  that  there  is  no 


116 

royal  road  needed  for  achieving  the  highest 
success.  A  farmer's  hoy,  who  was  willing  to 
work  In  the  shoe  shop,  baa-  made  him- 
self  the  poet  of  freedom.  Kay,'  he  has  won 
his  iway  to  ,  the  hearts  -  of  the  na- 
tion because  he  it  one  of  the  people,  who  knows 
their  life  and  sympathizes  witn  them  In  every 
trial.  '  Ue  has  not  despised  his  surroundings,  he 
has  not  beon  Indignant  been  use  they  were  what 
they  were ;  rather,  he  has  used  his  surroundings' 
and  has  made  thorn,  the  stepping-stones  of  his 
power  and' his  faino.  First  and' last,  he  has 
chosen-intimacy  with  tho  Infinite  Spirit  who  is 
in  all  life  as  the  companionship  and  society 
which  he  has  most  enjoyed.  Because  of 
thli  intimacy  with  God,  he  has  won  the  confi- 
dence and  affection  ofall  .God's  children  who 
have  seen  him  or  have  read  his  writing.  And 
he  dies  honored  and  loved  of  this  -community, 
not  because  of  his  skill  in  rhyming,  not  because 
of  his  careful  study  of  literature,  but  because  in 
every  exigency  he  said  what  he  believed  In 
theway  in  whioh  ho  could  best  say  It  at  the 
moment.  With  God's  help  he  thought  for 
himself,  he  has  said  exaotly  what  he  thonght— 
no  more  and  no  less— and  he'  'did  exaotly 
what  he  said.  Bdwakd  Evnxrrr  Halk. 


-    JOHN    GREKNIEAF   WHITTICK. 

Not  unexpected  at  his  83tt  year,  and 
yet  universally  beloved  and  lamented, 
the  poet  '.Vhktlor  has  been  taken  avray 
Oniy  th«  other  diivlie  contributed  a 
rr  riorisl  poem  on  the  occasion  of  the 
f3d  birthday  of  I>r.  Holmes,  which  in 
finish  of  touch  and  felicity  of  phrase  is 
r>n  a  level  with  his  bestwork,  and  tlfongh 
it  has  long  been  known  that  hfcwas  ex- 
ceedingly feeble*  there  is  no  trace  of 
failing  mind  or  body  in  this  .overture  of 
one  venerable  poet  to  another^  Holmes 
and  WhSttier  were  the  only  ANcerican 
poets  left,  who  belonged  to  the  great 
coterie  of  the  middle  part  of  the  century, 
and  Dr.  Holmesjs  today  tie  patriarch 
bf  American  letters,  the  only  New  Eng- 
land poet  who  enjoys  a  worloVwidefame. 
The  late  Dr.  .PatsorjB  won  long  ago  Bn 
enviable  fame  as  a  minor  poet,  but  he 
nevnr  claimed  the  position  to  which  his; 
abilities  entitled  Mai.  ^Whittler  for  fully 
neventy  years  has  been  a-  writer  of 
poetry.  His  first  verse's,  were  contrib- 
uted to  the  poet's  "corner  of  the  journa! 
edlt'd  by  Garrison,  who  quickly 
isaw  lhat  his  young  contributor 
bad  mcds  of  Promise,  and  gave 
hi.  i  the  praise  and  sympathy  which 
nrcournged  him  to  go  on.  He  hnd  more 
to  do  with  the  making  of  WhltUer  than 
uy  other  person  in  his  early  life,  but  it 
v-as  the  poems  of  Burns  which  be  read 
inbisl4lh  year  that  awakened  |  In  him 
th^  desire  to  become  a  poet. 

M'hittler  has  been  so  long  beforrs  the 
American  public  that  for  folly  two  gen- 
erations he  has .  been  perhaps  more 
widely  and  universally  known  than  any 
other  American  poet.  He  chose,  from 
the  first,  American  themes,  the  legends 
and  pastoral  tales  of  his  native  land, 
and  having  always  lived  In  the  country 
and  possessing  a  quick  Instinct  for  nat- 
nrr.l  boaaty,  ho  was  able  to  fill  out  the 
meaning  of  whatever  he  wrote  so  that 
it  kindled  tho  imagination  and  touched 
the  'eelings  of  his  readers.    This  gave 


his  early  poems  a  wonderful  popularity. 
When  Longfellow  was  Just  beginning  to 
be  known,  and  long'  be  fore  "Emerson  had 
'published  anything  beyond  fugitive 
•parses,  ha  hnd  obtained  wide  ree- 
'ognitioo  as  a  poet  who  had. written  from 
the  very  heart  of  American,  life,  and  it 
Is  bis  special  distinetton  that  ho  never 
worked  away  from  his  choice  of  Ameri- 
can subjects.  Wliefher  ballad  or  lyric 
or  pastoral  idyl  was  attempted.  Ms  heart 
was  with  the  American:  people,  and 
whatever  he  wrote  bad  the  spirit  of 
the  soil  in  It  His  poetry  was  not  so 
great  as  it  was  true  and  lifelike.  It 
never  moved  on  stilts.  It -was  as  If  a 
neigblwir  had  written  It,  and  nothing  Is 
praised  by  him  so  much'  as .  the  sim- 
plicity and  purity,  and  sincerity  of  fbe 
home  virtues.  Though,  brought  np  a 
Qnaker  and  keeping  efose  to  the  tradi- 
tions of  his  sect,  his  religion,  as  tf  speaks 
in  his  poetfj^'if  liketliat 'of  the  Quaker 
mystics  in  Its  spirit;  and  like  that  of  his 
Puritan  forefathers  In  "tt3  Insistence 
upon  the  strict  essentials  of  the  Chris* 
tian  faith.  He  Is  almost  ascetic  In  the 
strictness  of  Ms  faith,  and  yet  he  is  too 
cheerful  and,  sweet  in  his  temper,  and 
■too  charitable  to  others,  to  let.  the  Puri- 
tan spirit  overshadow  his  genius. 
»  Wbittler  was  much  mora  than  the  poet 
pt  nature  or  of  rsirgieVs-devotlou.  He 
had  the  spirit  and  the  heart  of  a  greet 
citizen,  and  it  is  in  Ms- position  as  a  citi- 
zen poet  that  he  gained  his  strongest 
hold  upon  the  American  people. 
was  the  companion  of  Garrison 
anti-slavery  reform,  and  It  wai  Whit- 
tier's  songs  of  labor,  quite  as  much  as 
Garrison's  incisive  utterances,  that 
ron??d  the  nation  to  Its  moral  sensibility 
to  rcgstrV!  to  slavery.  His  heart  was  with 
the  people,  and  his  conscience  was  too 
quick  and  keen  to  allow  a  great  wrong  to 
fexist  without  uttering  his  passionate 
protest  ogainst  It  He  did  great  and' 
Valiant  work  long  before  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Republican  party,  by  hit 
burniuz  'lyrics.  In  enkindling  men'* 
hearts  and  inducing  them  to  take  the 
lead  in  national  reforms.  His  labor  and 
freedom  lyrics  are  as  "true  to  the  kin- 
dred points  of  heaven  and  home"  as  the 
i msznet  is  to  the  pole.  He  was  never  a 
fanatic,  but  no  man  ever  held"  Inner  hy 
hi*  convictions. .  Even  when  thaw  ate 
simply  part  of  a  greet  his- 
tory these  \  songs  of  freedom 
and  labor  beat  add  grow  with  the 
passion  that  is  In  then.  They  reveal 
the  power  of  Funis  and  the  sincerity 
of  Cowper;  they  are  what  the  great 
rpass  of  the  people  would  say  if  they 
only  knew  how.  During  alt  the  (years 
of  our  great  conflict  WMttter  wee  a 
power  behind  the  throne.  It  was  In  hit 
gift  to  speak  the  winged; word*  that 
reached  the  whole  country,  and  tf  he 
never  actively  engaged  iff  petltlcs  he 
was  one  of  the  men -whose  word  en 
public  questions  was  universally  re- 
spected. He  was  like  an  Inspired  leader. 
f-  Whlttier  was  distinctly  an  Individ nal- 


ruugea* 

le.    He/ 
in  hi/ 


ht  in  his  thought  and  spirit,  and  hi* 
•treitcth  as  a  poet  was  chiefly  In  his 
power  to  take  np  small  >  subjects  and 
pathetic  incidents  and  present  thorn  in 
an  artistic  and  poetical  form:  hut 
when  be  was  thoroughly  aroused  the 
moral  spirit  of  the  man  came 
Into  play,  2nd  charged  his  words 
with  such  forte  '  that  ihey  had 
BJ  ■llllllin  fit  r  ^-«*»-~»«  utteranca. 
men  lie  tpeico  for  the  ^mewr  usawuyv» 
and  the  nation  heard  him  as  one  of  Its 
representative  citizens.  It  was  known 
that  he  stood  for  conselenca  and  lor 
moral  right,  and  that  his  word  was 
that  of  a  sincere  and  hottest 
man.  Though  lie  has  lived  Into  ad- 
vance! years,  his  interest  in  public 
matters  showed  no  more  signs  of  failure 
than  did  his  poetical  powers.  Nb  man 
iik  the  country  stood  individually  for 
more  character  and  conscience,  and  he 
had  kept  himself  so  close  to  the  hearts 
of  the  peoplo  In  his  writings, 
both  prose  and  poetry,  and  he  was 
so  Intensely  and  honestly  American  in 
his  spirit,  that  his  better  work  i9  already 
regarded  as  a  permanent  part  of  ear 
literature.  If  Longfellow  could  be 
called  the  most  popular  of;  American 
poets,  Whittrer  can  he  justly,  re- 
garded as  standing  next  to  him,  or 
as  his  only  rival.  He  has  been 
aptly  called  the  Burns  of  America.  He 
has  lived  Into  our  pastoral  and  political 
life  with  such  intensity,  and  has  so 
•horoughly  represented  the  life  of  the 
people  in  his  work,  that  he  is  sure  for 
many  generations  of  a  foremost  place 
in  the  hearts  of  the  American  people, 
and  from  his  abundant  writings  there 
could  be  selected  a  volume  of  -  religions 
and  pastoral  poems  that  must  always 
have  a  place  of  honor-in  our  literature. 


John    O.    Wblttter. 

Emeesox  and  Poe.  Bbtant  and  Lowell. 
Longfellow  and  Whittihk  ;  these  filx  are 
by  general  consent  placed  at  the  bead  of 
American  poets.  The  death  of  John  G. 
Whucteb  in  his  eighty-flfth  year  has  taken 
from  us  the  last  of  our  eminent  national 
gingers.  They  were  all,  with  the  exception 
of  Pok,  natives  of  New  England,  and  three 
of  them  were  ardont  laureates  of  the  anti- 
slavery  cause.  But  the  verse  of  Wetttieb 
owes  least  to  alien  impulses  and  models: 
it  smacks  most  deeply  of  the  New  England 
soil,  and  be  was  par  excellence  the  bard  of 
thelong  discredited  but  at  last  triumphant 
Abolitionists.  For  the  genecalappreciatioal 
of  ids  artistic  merits  he  bad  to  wait  for  the 
success  of  bis  poli tlcobyoo-labo^ers :  ifc  was 
not  until  1667 » that  he  was  ev*rywb.ere\ac- 
clairucdas  oneNif^thV  chief  1-Tical  repre- 
sentatives of  his  country 

There  am  certalTrfacts  relating  to  Whtt- 
TiER's\earlier  life  which,  help!  its,  to  under- 
standing quality  and  trend,  of  bin  poetical 
talents  -  He  was  born*  in  -Essex  county. 
Mass., Hue  stronghotd  of  Puritanic  tradi- 
tions. The  hard  featurW  however,  of  the 
Puritan  character  iie  Bad  not  inherited. 


117 
for  both  his^parents  Vera  of  Quaker 
6tock.  and  they  were  themselves  mem- 
bers of  the  Society  of  Friends.  His 
father  was  a  poor,  hard-working  farmer: 
the  farm  which  he  tilled  cost  but  six  hun- 
dred dollars  of  borrowed  money.  If  we 
except  twelve  months  at  the  Haverhill 
Academy,  the  only  tuition  which  the 
future  poet  ever  had  from  others  was  ob- 
tained at  a  common  school.  Narrow  also 
were  his  opportunities  for  self-educa- 
tion: too  poor  to  buy  books,  he  had  to 
borrow  them,  and  the  libraries  to  which  he 
hod  access  were  small  and  few.  He  was  all 
his  life  a  stran jrer  to  the  influences  of  col- 
lege culture  and  of  foreign  travel,  which 
nod  mucn  to  do  with  shaping  the 
minds  of  Emebson,  Longfellow,  and 
Lowell.  Two  other  circumstances  are 
of  capital  significance.  The  poetic  in- 
stinct was  awakened  in  him  by  the 
poetry  of  Bobebt  Bubicb.  As  he  lately  told 
a  friend :  "  Bubns  was  the  first  poet 
I  rear',  and  he  will  be  the  last." 
The  second  pregnant  incident  was  this': 
that  the  first  poem  of  Whtttcer's  ever 
printed  appeared  in  1826,  when  the  author 
was  19  years  old,  in  William  Lloyd  Gab- 
bxsok's  newspaper,  the  Free  Preen.  Five 
years  later  the  farmer's  son  decided  to  cost 
in  his  lot  with  the  despised  Abolitionists. 
and  became  in  a  distinctive  sense  the  poet 
of  freedom.  For  thirty  years  Whit- 
ttjeb's  political  lyrics  appealed  to  a 
gradually  widening  audience,  until  his 
"  Kansas  Emigrants"  was  heard  from  Mas- 
sachusetts Bay  to  the  Missouri  River,  and 
his  "Eln  Feste  Burg"  and  "Song  of 
the  Negro  Boatmen"  were  sung  In  the 
Union  armies.  It  cannot  be  said,  however, 
that  he  ever  deliberately  wrote  in  praise  of 
warfare;  on  the  contrary,  his  poems  are 
full  of  passages  deploring  It.  In  'Massa- 
chusetts to  Virginia"  he  said.  "We 
wage  no  war,  we  lift  no  arms" 
against  the  South.  In  "  Stanzas  for 
the  Times"  his  bugle  call  was  not  to  battle, 
but  to  the  contest  of  truth  *nd  love  with 
error.  Even  In  "  Brown  of  Ossawatomie  " 
the  same  spirit  was  so  conspicuous  as  to 
provoke  the  charge  of  lukewarmness  from 
Gabbison.  The  keynote  of  "Disarma- 
ment" is  that  "peace  unweaponed  con- 
quers every  wrong,"  and  the  poet's  own 
attitude  toward  the  vanquished  South  was 
indicated  in  the  lines  to  William  Fraxcis 
Babtlett:         ,, 

"  Moors.  EMtx.  on  tbT  ata-blown  •hot*. 
Tby  beautiful  and  brare, 
Wboae  falling  band  the  oliraboo. 
Whose  dyLns  Up*  forjava" 

Although  the  heart  and  mind  of  Whittteb 
were  for  the  most  part  absorbed  in 
the  agitation  against  slavery,  some 
of  the  strongest  proofs  of  his  purely 
artist!--  faculty  were  exhibited  before  luo 
close  of  tliH  civil  war;  R'.ina;  these  may  he 
named  such  ballads  as  "Maud  Miuler," 
"Skipper  Ireson."  and  "The  Pipes  at  Luck- 
now."  It  is.  nevertheless,  true  that  the 
national  as  distinguished  from  the  sectional 
awakening  to  the  charm  of  "Whittieb's 
verse  dat  js  from  the  publication  in  18C6-7  of 

j?ls¥lt)i" -"*K~th***  oomposttOJia  It  Is 

fleftl  Mi  at  his  aspirations  and  endeavors  are. 
tending  to  turn  away  from  a  homiletlcal  or 


didactic  purpose  to  the  embodiment  of 
esthetic  beauty.  But.  although  he  no, 
longer  weakened  the  artlstlo  effect 
of  a  composition  by  tacking  to  11 
a  moral,  it  must  not  be  inferred  that 
Whittieb  was  ever  a  conscious  ad* 
vocate  of  art  for  art.  His  whole  nature  won 
steeped  in  &  sense  of  doty  and  responsibil- 
ity, and  it  is  doubtful  It  he  could  even  com- 
prehend  beauty  divorced  from  goodness. 
His  conception  of  the  poet  was  rather  that 
of  the  vaUs.  or  bard,  who  elevates,  than 
that  of  the  poeta,  or  maker,  whose  exclusive 
purpose  is  to  please.  In  his  view  the  pos- 
session of  artistic  powers  implied  a  divine 
commission  to  lift,  invigorate,  and  purify 
mankind.  If  the  artist  in  him  was  often 
tempted  to  forsake  "themes  of  publlo 
wrong"  for  "  the  green  and  pleasant  paths 
of  song."  his  conscience  Interposed  the 
query  which  Coleridge  had  uttered: 

-  Wn*  it  iifM, 
While  mr  tumnmbtrad  bratbran  telle*  sad  Mad, 
Tbat  I  (honla  dream  *«•»/  th'  lntrnatad  asSM 
On  roat-Uax  bade,  pampartnc  the  coward  heart 
Wltb  faallngs  aU  too  dtlioate  I  or  oaa  r*         > 

It  is  with  Longfellow  that  WHxrnxB 
is  naturally  associated  in  the  minds  of 
American  readers,  for  the  point*  of  contrast 
which  undoubtedly  exist  are  less  salient 
than  the  points  of  likeness.  Both  were  es- 
sentially lyric  poets:  it  was  in  songs  and 
ballads  that  their  finest  talent  was  shown. 
The  best  versa  of  each  is  characterized 
by  a  sweet  tunefulness,  and  by  a  grace 
which  seems  untutored,  but  i«  really  the 
product  of  an  exquisite  art.  If  Long- 
fellow's intellect  was  more  richly  stored 
and  more  variously  trained,  it  may  be  that 
WmmiEB's  had  more  native  vitality  and 
robustness;  it  is  certain  that  the  Quaker 
had  more  fire  in  him  than  the  college  pro- 
fessor; bis  strokes  upon  the  anvil  drew 
more  sparks.  He  is  more  truly  at  homo 
and  more  unfeignedly  happy  In  New 
England  history  and  amid  the  somewhat 
bleak  and  commonplace  surroundings' 
of  New  England  rural  life;  and  yet 
there  is  nothing  of  Whittieh's  which 
equals  the  pathos  of  "Evangeline."  To 
Wbxtttxb.  as  to  BtrsNs.  romance  was 
no  far-won  exotio;  to  both  of  them  the 
beautiful  was  no  more  lacking  in  the  homely 
types  of  humanity  around  them  than  In  the 
wayside  flowers  of  their  own  lands.  Poets 
of  the  common  people,  that  is  to  say.  of 
man  in  the  great  mass,  they  will  never  be 
outgrown  by  their  audience.  That  is  why 
Btjbns  and  Wsxttxbb  will  probably  survive, 
when  the  special  stamp  of  culture  and  re- 
finement accepted  by  a  given  generation 
may  seem  rococo  and  inadequate,  amid 
wider  Intellectual  horizons  and  divergent 
mrrents  of  taste. 


Srdo^rVWrfr^.SV'  .£,  1*1*- 
JOBX  GREEXLEAF    WHITTIER. 

-To  say  that  the  world  Is  the  poorer  that 
Sir.  WmrriiR  has  left  it  is  but  to  utter 
feeble  words.  Wherever  the  English 
tongue  is  spoken  the  new*  will  be  received 
with  sadness.  An  exoression  of  sorrow  that 
is  heartfelt  will  go  forth,  even  though  it  is 
true  that  we  have  had  him  with  us  s>o  fang, 
and  that  the  news-thai  he  .is  no  mors   can 


scarcely  causa  surprise.  ~~^ho  truest  word 
to  say  is  not  that  the  wnrld  is  the  poorer 
now,  btit  that  it  is  the  richer  becatrse  he 
has  HveiTraytt.     ,  \*         V 

Mr.  WHirriaa  wa*  almost,  rl^not  alto- 
gether, the  greatest- of  Amrtica-n.  poet*. 
He  was  also  a  man  among  in>o.  His  was  a 
sterl i ng  persooall ty  which  mi d\jts  lm  press 
upon  those  among- wfiom  hamevetk  "While 
England's  poet-lanreate  basT"hiddon  him- 
self from  ti«w  amid  the"«t«aa,  at  Farring- 
ford,  the  poet  of  America  haa  been  visible 
to  the  world,  as  he  has  walked  beneatn  the 
spreading  branches  at  Oak  Knoll. 

Mr.  WHrrtot*  has  been  called  the  poet  of 
freedom.  His  service  with  his  pen  during 
the  days  of  the  anti-slavery  agitation  and, 
later,  during  the  rebellion,  can  scarcely  be 
estimated.  He  was  io  the  very  core,  a 
patriot.  HJKheTTJtal3B|3U  ■taxcely  be  ac- 
ooraed  to  any  man. 

Bat  It  is  chiefly  in  the  hearts  ot  his  coun- 
trymen that  Mr.  Whtttikr's.  memory  as  a 
friend,  a  man,  and  a  patriot  will  long  re- 
main green.  It  is  apon  his  character  as  a 
poet  that  his  fame,  with  future  (fenerations, 
roust  rest.  As  such  the  lustre  of  his  name 
will'not  soon  be  dimmed.  Mr.  Whtttier 
will  not  he  forgotten,  because  his  verses, 
among  all  those  of  American  poets,  keep 
most  closely  to  human  life.  Gold- 
smith's ''Deserted  Village"  and  Guat'h 
.".Elegy  la  a"'  Country  Churchyard" 
have  become  integral  portions  ot  oar  very 
language,  while  even  rn  his  lifetime,  but 
few  of  the  poems  of  Tkottson  are  .  house- 
hold words.  So,  too,  "Maud  Muller"  will 
he  read  when  tbe  title  ouly  of  man;  a  more 
ambitious  poem  will  he  remembered.  The 
poems  of  Whittirb  have  appealed  to  the 
heart,  and  will  live  long  after  those,  beauti- 
ful in  themselves,  which  have  addressed 
simply  the  intellect,  are  covered  with  dust. 
His  verses  will,  many  generations  hence, 
rest  witl'in  easy  reach  upon  the  library 
shelf. 

The  thought  must  have  occurred  to  mul- 
titudes ottpeoole  when  the  tidings  of  Mr. 
"Whittikr  s  serious  Illness  reached  them 
that,  should  their  wont  fears  be  realized,  no 
words  from  any  tongue  or  pen  coufd  more 
fittingly  express  sentiments  appropriate  to 
such  an  endbf  such  a  life  as  his  tban  those 
contained  in  too  closing  lines  of  the 
l.iuaksi  jxtt's  own  tender  and  beautiful 
tribute  ottered  but  a  few  days  ago  to  O  Liven 
■\VispKr.i.  HoLiis.s.  Bead  now,  in  the  light 
that  shines  through  our  tears,  bow  woDder- 
fully  prophetic  they  seem! 

The  hour  draws near.liowe'er  delayed  and  iate, 
Wurn  at  the  Kternal  Gnt3 
JWe  l^.-vve  tile  words  and  works  We  call  our  own. 
And  lift  void  hands  alone 

For  love  to  fill.    Our.  nakedness  of  soul 
Drinks  lot  hat  Ucrte  no  toll ;  t  •  ■  „ 

Citftless  we  come  to  Him.  who  all  things  gives. 
And  live  because  Ho  lives.  -  - 


-    TITE  POET  WHITTIM.  J 

(  The  death  of  John  Greeuleaf  Whittler  was 
fcot  wholly  unexpected,  for  be.  was  an  old 
man.  lie  had  said  good-by  to  the  four-score 
years  which  Moses  all<we^  to  ufiosnal 
strength.  And  yet  his  mental  qnlckness.  his 
interest  in  all  things  pertaining  to  humanity 
and  his  unfaltering  power  of  expression 
were  so  pronounced  thai«it  now  seems  as 
though  he  were  taken  away  bj  the  prime  of 


118 

manhood.  With  one  exception  lie  »«<  the 
last  of  the  poets  who  san$s**L-fonS  together 
for  the  glory  of  Xew  England,  and  in  certain 
respects  lie  was  the  otx^Met  who  was  most 
fully  possessed  with  the  sprslt  of  New  Eng-" 
land ;  tbe  one  who  best  portfossed  in  verse 
her  landscapes  and  expressed  most  subtly  as 
well  as  with  the  sharpest  realism  the  temper 
of  her  people.  For  Longfellow  was  cosmo- 
politan; and.  it  is. easy  to  Imagine  the 
Lowell  of  later  y»aTsWd«r(tlling  in  comfort 
on  foreign  sdfl.  Bryant  could  have  chanted 
his  hymns  to  nature  and  to  death  under  a 
different  sky,  and  Emersohr  In  spite  of  his  in- 
tense love  u£  the  ^ew  ESghxnd  soil,  was  a 
poet-philosopner  of  the  «nrtverse.  But  it  la 
hard  to  thlnlr  of  Whittler  wfthout  at  once 
coupling  with  his  name  New  England  scenes 
and  New  England  ideasN^.    ' 

His  life,prepared  his  peatry.  FiTSt  of  all 
enteterhinto  his  poetical  equipment  heredity: 
He  came  pt  persecuted^  stock,  and  he  nat- 
urally sympathized  deeply  with  the  ojW 
pressed.  Bocn  on  a  farm,  Tie  knew  the  lite 
of  a  farmer ;  but  it  ws5~tts*^ily  the  rontina 
work  that  he  could  so  welMeseribe,  or  the 
dress  and  the  ways  of  life;  -he  "became  the 
trusted  friend  of  Nature,  and  MMrim  she  told 
her  secrets.  Eager  for  education,  he  made 
shoes,  and  lie  taught  school  that  be  himself 
might  learn.  His  first  published  verses  won 
the  praise  and  the  sympathy  of  Garrison, 
and  his  friendship  with  that  zealous  lib- 
erator, added' to  hie  natural  inclinations, 
made  him  the- poet  of  the  anti-slavery 
party.  Tbe  stern  New  England  spirit  that 
in  his  religious  poetry  was  so  strongly  tem- 
pered by  the  optimism  and  the  sweetness  of 
his  sect,  blaxea  with  the  fiery  indignation  of 
a  Hebrew  prophet  In  denouncing  the  cruelty 
of  tbe  oppressor  and  In  warning  tbe  nation 
of  the  wrath  to  come.  He  sang  tbe  promise 
of  those  early  days'  when  Fremont  was 
leader ;  he  amused  the  Northern  people  to  a 
lively  sense  ot  the  arrogance  of  the  slave- 
holders; he  exalted  in  memorable  verse 
when  it  was  proclaimed  throughout  the  land 
that  tho.-e  in  bonds  were  set  free  forever. 

It  has  been  said  by  them  whose  talk  is  of 
art  for  art's  sake  that  the  poet  was  over- 
shadowed by  the  reformer ;  that  the  sincerity 
of  the  latter  madahlui  despise  the  polishing 
of  verse;  that  in  becoming  the  hard 
of  an  epoch  fie  forgot  the  ,  re- 
quirements of  Time,  the  final  judge. 
It  fs  true  that  Whittler  was  never 
a  juggler  with  words.  There  are  provincial- 
isms of  word  and  accent  in  his  poems, 
whether  they  treat  of  pastoral  scenes  or  of 
slavery,  and  he  was  occasionally  careless  in 
his  rhymes.  But  the  individuality  of  the 
poet,  as  well  as  the  New  England  individu- 
ality, would  have  suffered  from  the  Horatian 
labor  of  the  file.  The  rugged  honesty  of  his 
excited  thought  could  not  brvok  the  delay 
necessary  to  the  cutter  of  verbal  gems.  When 
a  dull  nation  needed- the  prick  of  a  zealous 
prophet  it  would"  have  seemed  treachery  to 
lihn  to  have  halted,  for  the  sake  of  a  more 
felicitous  expression.  Poetry  was  to  him  In 
those  dark  days  before  the  war  the  readiest 
tool  to  serve  his  purpose.  A  national  dis- 
grace or  a  national  crime  was  never  merely 
material  for  poetry. 

As  by  his  glowing  lines  he  served  his  conn- 
try,  so  by  his  poetic  illustrations  of  homely 
New  England  life  he  glorified  a  homely  peo- 
ple: so  by  his  religious  verses  full  of  sweet 
charity  and  Implicit  trust  he  appeased  mnny 
a  doubting  spirit  and  brought  consolation  to 
many  a  mourner.    The  New-  Englander  of 


past  years,  stern  to  severity,  a  man  of  obsti- 
nate convictions,  yetnot  inaoeesalble  to  tbe 
demands  of  justice;  who  in  the  routine  of 
his  hard  life  was  apt  to  neglect  the  cultiva- 
tion of  things  now  thought  necessary;  who, 
absorbed  in  wresting  from  the  land  or  the 
sea  s  livelihood,  paid  little  or  no  attention  te 
the  glories  of  autumnal  woods  or  setting 
sons,  waves  dashing  against  rocks  or  laugh- 
ing under  a  blue  sky ;  whose  grim  humor 
was  often  displayed  in  tragic  situations; 
this  New  Englander  finds  his  most  kindly, 
sympathetic  and  at  the  same  time  realistic  in- 
terpreter In  Whittler.  The  poet  may  choose 
an  episode  in  the  history  of  New  Eng- 
land, as  In  his  version  of  the  long-cred- 
ited inhumanity  of  "Floyd  "Ireson:"  Tie 
may  treat  of  a  pathetic  superstition  as  In 
•'  Telling  the  Bees ; "  or  he  may  give  a  photo- 
graphic representation  of  (arm  life  in  winter, 
as  in  "Snow-Bound,"  and  In  each  and  every 
case  the  graphic  touch  or  the  faithful  dellne** 
tion  never  suggests  merely  tbe  cold,  accurate 
observer;  but  the  lines  glow  with  the  warmth 
of  human  feeling  and  human  appreciation. 
He  sees  Nature  as  tbe  friend  of  man,  even  in 
her  sterner  moods ;  lie  does  not  use  her  as'  a 
subject  for  metaphysical  speculation.  In- 
deed, speculative  as  well  as  analytical  poetry 
was-  foreign  to  htm.  Nature  and  roan  and 
woman  as  they  were  found  in  New  England, 
were  his  subjects.  These  subjects  were  closely 
bound  together.  Hesang  of  the  people  and  the' 
scenes  near  and  familiar  to  him.  A  man  of! 
the  people,  he  wrote  for  the  people  They- 
listened  to  him  gladly.  They  understood 
him.    They  loved  him. 


!'  JohuU.  Whittler  combined  the  native 
meekness  of  the  Quaker  with  tbe  aggres- 
sive earnestness  of  tbe  apostle  of  reform 
In  a  tray  that  has  1-een  seldom  illus- 
trated in  history-  Those  who  have 
known  Whittler  in  t;ie  later  years  of  his 
Hfe  saw  in  him  a  gentle  old  man  with  a 
heart  :hat  looked  out  kindly  and 
Charitably  to  all  the  world.  Jit 
konld  not  be.  otherwise  than 
this  in  his  inherent  nature; 
yet  he  had  an  earnest  barred  of  wrong, 
which  found  vent  in  as  fiery  utterance 
In  his  early  life  as  that  of  the  most  im- 
passioned partisan  of  a  cause  or  of  an 
Idea.  It  was  doubtless  a  sore  trial  to 
Whittier  when  so  many  of -.his  old 
associates  of  the  early  abolitionist  move- 
Dent  parted  company  with  him  In  these 
latest  year>x.tovwhich  ve  bave  re- 
ferred before.  He  taehh  firmly  to 
his  party .  because  It  Dad  been 
the  anti-smvery  party,  and,  doubtless, 
found  it  difficult  to  understand  their 
leaving  it:  but  he  knVw^tbem  too  well 
and  had  too  high  on  appreciation  of 
their  sincerity  of  rlisracter  to  deal 
with  them  as  ha-bKdN^one  with  those 
who  had  earlier  diuTred  Irom  him.  This 
circumstance  -probably  affected  Whit- 
tier's  attitude  in  later  life  toward  oppo- 
nents on  political  questions  generally. 
He  bad  learned  a  tolerance  which  bad 
not  previously  been  in  bis  temperament 
Indignant  denunciation  of  wrong  bas 
never  oeen  uttered  with  •  more  ve- 
hemence of  language  tban  by  this  calm 


Quaker.  In  tbe  abstract  It  was  met 
with  a  spirit  of  absolute  intolerence  en 
bis  part  for  wrong  itself,  according  to 
bis  own  standard.  There  are  no  sneb 
•ery  words  in  the  language  in  poetry  as 
Whittier  pot  Into  his  anti-slavery 
verses.  They  indicate  a  mind  in 
'the  extremest  state  of  excitement,  and 
airing  way  to Jhe  most  unbounded  free- 
dom of  utterance.  There  is  not  tbe 
slightest  tendency  to  self-repression, 
such  as  we  should  have  expected  of  tbe 
Quaker.  Whittier  never  took  bis  pen 
on  such  occasions  without  going  into  a 
white  heat  His  attention  was  mostly 
given  to  slavery,  but  he  wrote  a  poem 
entitled  "The  prisoner  for  Debt"  at 
this  early  time.,  in  wbieh  is  the  same 
quality.  School  boys  selected  thc*e 
pieces  for  declamation  because  of  tneir 
Intense  energy  of  exnressioa.  It  was  all 
natural  enough  if  it  had  not  come  from 
a  Quaker.  The  strange  feature  of  it  was 
the  Quaker  finding  such  unrestrained  ex- 
pression. There  was  tbe  same  vehement 
assault  In  bis  dealings  with  individual!), 
Mr.  Louis  '. '  A.  .  Godey .  a  half-cen- 
tury *go,  was  publishing  a  periodi- 
cal called  "The  Lady's  Book,"  which 
circulated  throughout  the  country. 
and  of  course  largely  in  the 
South.  Mr.  Godey  truckled  to  that 
section  on  the  slavery  question  with  a 
view  to  bis  -  subscription  list.  About 
that  time  he.caused  a  portrait  of  himself 
to  be  printed.-  Whittier  wrote  the  most 
bitlngly  severe  lines  addressed  to  this 
picture.  They  ate  in  like  caustic.  The 
verses  have  not  been  preserved  amoug 
his  writings.  But  that  terrible  arraign- 
ment' in  the  poem  "Ichabod"  is  perpet- 
uated, and  forms  one  pf  the  most  im- 
pressive pieces  in  our  literature.  These 
things  which  we  have  noted  were  incom- 
patible with  the  Idea  of  the  Quaker  in 
the  ordinary  mind. 

The  spirit  of  the  aggressive  moral  re- 
former and  the  spirit  of  the  Quaker 
were  really  incompatible,  and  the  spirit 
of  the  former  conquered  in  the  case  of 
Whittier.  His  poems  were  not  at  all 
the  poems  of  the  non-resistant  That 
quarter  was  the  last  one  to  which  the 
reader'  would  have  attributed  their  au- 
thorship. The  man  was  made  much 
what  he  was  bv  the  anti-slavery  contro- 
versy. He  Was  in  this  'as  entirely  as 
were  any  of  its  apostles.  It  carried  him 
Into  active  politics.  Ho  did  not  follow 
Garrison  and  the  men  of  his  school  in 
holding  his  hand  from  this  work.  He 
engaged  in  It  eagerly.  It  was  not  a  part 
of  the  mission  he  felt  to  be  his  to  attend 
caucuses,  though  we  have  little  doubt 
that  he  would  have  done  this  had  he  felt 
it  necessary  to  advance  tbe  cause  he  had 
at  heart;  but  be  was  willing  to  be 
a  candidate  for  office,  and  took 
nominations  for  Congress  and 
for  presidential  electors.  It  would 
be  difficult  to  imagine  htm  at  home  in 
the  former  body;  but  his  feelings  of 
political  fellowship  were  so  strong  that 


119 
they  never  left  him.  even  in  the  many 
placid  years  of  his  latest  life.  His  con- 
tinuance as  a  Republican  adherent  no 
doubt  came  largely  from  the  memory  of 
battles  on  tbe  part  of  that  party  in  which 
he  had  participated,  as  well  as  of  re- 
membrance of  encounters  with  the 
enemy  whom  it  had  opposed.  He  could 
not  leave  tbe  one  or  go  into  alliance 
with  the  other,  even  When  he  saw  many 
of  his  former  associates'  taking  this 
course.  He  was  a  natural  fighter, 
though  be  was  trained  in  other  respects 
in  the  Quaker  faith.  He  had  the  feel- 
ing •  of  the  old  warhorse  when 
the  battle  was  on.  Of  course  he 
fought  primarily  from  principle.  We- 
woul'l  not  question  for  a  moment  that 
this  was  his  underlying  and  paramount 
motive;  but,  unlike  those  with  wfcom  he 
had  acted  in  anti-slavery  battles,  be 
could  not  take  his  eye  from  the  old 
standard.  T!?o  call  to  this  was  an- 
swered without  reservation,  and  he 
never  recognized  the  possibility  of  being 
reasoned  away  from  H. 


the  end  or  an  ipocm. 
The  sudden,  though  net  unexpected, 
death  of  two  men,  who  were  the  last  of 
the]r  ceueration  in  the  lines  of  actlvuv 
which  they  followed,  shows  that  we 
have  really  come  to  the  end  of  an  epoch, 
or  rather  of  two  orochs.  Mr.  Curtis 
wa-  the  Inst  of  the  prea*  Lyceum  force 
which  did  much  to  prepare  the  way  for 
the  unattached  schools,  which  are  now 
universal,  and  Mr.  Whittier  was  the  last 
of  our  American  poets  who  belonged  to 
our  literatnre  for  this  century-  He  was 
the  equal  61.  his  peers,  and,  though  Dr. 
Holmes  survives,  ho  is  not  so  exclusively 
a  poet  that  we  can  rank  him  among  the 
great  American  poets  of  this  century. 
Both  Mr,  Curtis  and  Mr.  Whittier  repre- 
sent tne  end  of  an  epoch.'  They  have 
been  chiefs  and  leaders,  in  the  depart- 
ments of  literary  and  public  effort  which 
they  cultivated,  and  tlrey  have  passed 
away  without  leaving  -*nr  person  who 
takes  their  places.  The  lecture  field  has 
come  to  an  end.  ■  Its  legitimate  function 
of 'agitation  is  better  accomplished  In 
another  way,  and  in  respect  of 
poetry  it  cannot  bo  said  that 
any  of  out  younger  writers  com- 
mand the  attention  of  the  nation  as 
Lowell  or  Longfellow  or  Whittier  did. 
We  look  in  vain  for  tbe  man  whose 
bugle  notes  are  universally  listened  to. 
Half  a  dozen  poets  may  he  named,  bnt 
they  have  not  the  clear  and  universal 
utterance  which  Introduces  them  to 
national  fame.  It  is  In  this  sense  that 
the  departure  of  these  two  men  is  to  be 
regarded  as  the  end  of  an  epoch.  They 
are  without  successors,  and  we  are  com- 
pelled to  look  out  upon  the  future  -from 
a  different  point  of  view.  Who  shall 
forecast  what  the  leadership  shall  be  in 
the  spheres  in  which  these  men  held 
swan? 


ftasteK  «obe,  S«fh*|  WI- 
TH* TWILIGHT  07  TUT  YOSTS,     j 

The  "twilight  of  tbe  poets"  deepens  wrk 
the  death  of  Whittier.    He  /Was  tbe,  laist" 
bnt  one  of  that  great  group  o I  writers  wlje 
made    American    literatnre'  memorable. 
That  one,  Oliver  WraDCLi/HoLicES.  still 
lives,  tbe  lonely  survivor  of  a  mighty  epoch. 

But  because  we  are  now  passing  through 
the  twib«Litof  the  poets  ia.no  reason  to  ap- 
prehend that  there  will  never1-**,  another 
sunrise.  Li  terature.ln  any  age  or-countrr, 
baa  never  flowed  on  in  one  continuous  and 
undiminished! Wrens**  Genius  has  its  seed- 
time and  harvest,  "ana  there  is  of  necessity 
a  barren  winter  Setpreen  'tbe  sheaves  ot 
harvest  and  the  blooms  of  sr/ring>*<*. 

•When-  ws  remember"  tbet  England, 
tnouchjibe  has  the' greatest  ftrerature  in 
the  wBrrdT has  produced  onVeight  or  ten 
really  great  poets  in  eighttrr.tcn  centuries. 
America  should  not  be  discouraged  if  there 
Is  a  short  intermission  in  he*  literary  pro- 
ductiveness. "V« ' 

Though  tbe  great  -era  fhaT  produced 
Emerson,  Bryajjt.  Hawthorn*.  Poa. 
LoxorcLLOw.  Lowiix.  Whitmah  and 
Whittier  is  now  over,  it  Is  probable  that 
the  golden  age  of  American  literature  baa 
not  yet  dawned.  Walter  Bksaxt  has 
prophesied  that  there  is  soon  to  be  an  out 
burst  of  llterarv  Renins  In  America  such  as 
the  world  has  not  seen  since  the  act  of 
Queen  Elizabeth.  Our  "twilight  of  tbe 
poets"  will,  in.  dne  time,  be  succeeded  by  a 
sunburst  of  mornine. 


rmt  r'JCirn'or  TrnmiER. 

To  The  youni^r  generation  of  readers,  ^mett 
and  women  who  have  grown  up  siaee4b*  stir- 
ring days  when  Wblttier's  moit  fiery  eengs 
Were  sung,  his  poetry  has  a  significance  differ-, 
pat  from  Us  relation  to  elder  minds,  To  these. 
As  to  boys  and  gfrls  who  are  now  reading 
Whittier.  with  the  first  glow  ot  youthful  inter-' 
est  bo  represent*  a  berolc  ace  of  our  country, 
and  is  more  historical  than  contemporaneous. 
He  has  translated  for  all  who  have  not.  lived 
through  half  of  the  century  with  him  the  spirit 
of  the  days  of  tbe  early  sixties.  3e  Interprets 
tne  passion  of  the  abolition Utj  to  the  reup* 
and  gives  them  throbbing  personal  share  with 
tbeir  elders  who  echoed  Whittier'*  cry  t» 
"Voices  of  Freedom:" 

Rhall  honor  bleed 7— shall  troth  suetrambf 
Shall  pen  and  press  and  soul  oe  dumb? 
Sol  by  each  spot  of  haunted  around,     ■ 
Where  freedom  weeps  her  children's  ralL" 
By  Plymouth's  rock  and  Banker's  mound. 
By  Grlswold'i  stained  and  i«h*tter*d  walL 


By  Warren's  ghost,  by  Langdon'a 
By  all  the  memories  of  ear  dead! 


There  Is  another  and  a  larger  fseetew  far 
which  Whittier  has  always  spoken,  aad  in  this 
utterance  his  influence  npoa  bis  time*  ts  h*aal> 
cuiable,  even  through  bis  sometime*  formal eac- 
presiton  of  is  may  militate  against  Ms  rounded 
fa  tore  fims.  It  U  tbe  bend  to  hand  aad  heart 
to  heart  encouragement  he  bm  «rv*n  faith, 
faith  in  its  highest  and  broadest  meaning 
which  ts  meant  now.  He  has  shown  pot  parr 
bis  "earneet  sense  of  human  right  and  wenL," 

end 

A  hate  ot  tyranny  Intense,  ..  . 
And  hearty  in  its  ■seheman**; 


end  ha  hM  not  merely  made  all  men 
hi*  brother!  In  hi*  sharing  ef  their 
sorrow  and  their  pain.  But  he  haa  u*. 
tered  -over  and  e-rer  .again  Ms  •owl's,  cer- 
tainty of  immortality  and  h1a  life's  serenity  of 
faith  in  words  which  are  fruitful  deep  in  the 
4vr*s  of  his  countrymen;  It  is  scarcely  possible 
to  go  into  a  remote  Tillage,  an  isolated  hamlet, 
a  sparsely  populated  region  aurwbere  la  the 
United  Rtate*  without  coming'  upon  a  rolnme 
of  WhiUier'a  poema,  More^han  any  other  of 
our  poets  he  has  spoken  as  common  man  to 
common  man,  and  the— nnliterery  lore  him 
with  an  affection  f  never  insplMd  by  those 
whoae  form  of  expression  ia  Teas  simple,  direct 
and  sincere.  TOsusaads .  Qt  these  people 
as  well  at  those  ,  of  the  ywrt  who 
read  the  •  latent  Atlantic,  '.  Monthly 
and  know  how  touching  a  ft) log  it  is  that  Whlt- 
tier's  last  poem  is  there  (or  Dr.  holmes— thou- 
sands of  these  rerere  his  name  for  words  which 
hare  strengthened  the  soul  of  the  nation,  aa  hie 
war  poema  stiffened  its  backbone.  And  there 
are  stanzas  like  these  from  "My  goal  and  I* 
which  are  parts  of  sacred  experieo.ee  to  i 
men  and  women: 
"Know  well,  my  soul,  God's  hand  controls 

Whate'er  thou  feareeD 
Bound  him  ia  calmest  mnalc  rolls 

Whate'er  thou  nearest 

What  to  thee  Is  shadow7  to  him  U  day. 

And  the  end  he  knoweth, 
And  not  on  a  blind  and  aimless  way 

The  spirit  goeth." 
Or  this  from  "The  Orer-Heart:" 

"O  hearts  of  lore!    O  souls  tnht  turn 
lire  sua  flowers  to  the  pure  and  beat  I 
To  you  the  truth  is  manifest: 
For  they  the  mind  of  Christ  discern 
Who  lean  like  John  upon  his  breast  1" 
Or  these  from  "The  Eternal  Goodness:" 
"IJong  for  household  roiees  gone, 

For  vanished  smiles  I  long. 
But  God  hath  led  my  dear  ones  on 
And  he  can  do  no  wrong. 

Ho  offering  of  my  own  I  hare. 
Nor  works  my  faith  to  prove, 

I  can  hut  giye  the  gifts  he  gave 
And  plead  bis  love  for  lore. 

And  so  beside  the  silent  sea, 

I  wait  the  muffled  oar: 
Mo  harm  from  him  ean  ooma  to  ma 
On  ocean  or  on  shore." 
Or  these  from  "Our  Master  f 

"Death  comes,  life  goes;  the  asking  ay* 

And  ear  are  answerless : 
The  grave  is  dumb,  the  hollow  sky 
Is  sad  with  sUentnesa, 

The  letter  fails  and  systems  fall. 

Aod  every  symbol  wanes ; 
The  spirit  overbroodtng  all, 

Eternal  lore  remains. 


Webrlng  no  ghastly  holocaust. 
We  pile  no  graven  stone ; 
irres  thee  best  whe  lovet* 
i  brothers  and  thy  own." 


Heserrea  thee  best  whe  loreth  most 

Dal 


fTWAS  A  BWS~  SUGGESTION 

Thai   led    wiittier  to  Write 
"Barbara  Freltchie." 


Sirs.  Sonthwbrth  Telle  of  Iter  Frlen* 
*hl|>  for  the  Quaker  Poet-She  Ite» 
eaUe  a  Visit  to  HI*  Plainly  Fur- 
nished Rome— Tribute  of  the  Ames* 
bury  SelectSBsaa. 

tertciAi  ourArcii  to  tub  so»to»  nn'-.Ai.ft..     4 

WASHiXGTbN,  D.  C«  Sept.  8,  1802.   Wu.it- 

tier  had  i:i  Mrs.  E.  D.  «.  K.  South  wortfc, 

the  well-known  novelist,   a    frienu    atrd 

gTeat   admirer.    It   was  Mrs.  Sontbworth 


120 

who  sent  Mr.  Whittier  the  story  of  the 
famous  incident  at  "Fredericklown,"  which 
suggested  "BirbiraFrcitchie."  : 

Last  eveninz  Sirs.  Soutuworth.  nt  her 
charminir  home  in  iTeorgetown.  told  to  a 
reporter  of  the  Sttit  the  story  of  har connec- 
tion with  the  famous  poem:  "*,-' 

"In  September.  1883."  said  Mrs.  South- 
worth,  "a Mr.  C.  S.  B.imsburg,  a  neighbor  of 
mine,  related  to  my  son  Richmond  and  my- 
self the  storv  of  Stonewall  Jackson's  raid 
through  Maryland  the  previous  year  and 
his  passasre  through  Frederick,  telling  OS 
how  old  Barbara  Frcitcliie.  a  connection  of 
Mr.  Ramsburc.  hung  out  from  her  window 
the  stars  and  stripes,  and  how  they  were 
shot  down.  If  I  remember  rightly,"  con- 
tinued Mrs.  Southwortli.  "Barbara  was  at 
the  time  moie  than  00  years  old.  The, 
town  was  about  equally  divided  between 
sympathizers  with  the  southern  cause  and 
those  who  upheld  the  Union. 

"Barbara  was  a  stanch  Unionist,  and 
when,  upon  hearing.,  of1  the  approach  of 
Stonewall  Jackson  and  his  army,  the 
Unionists  of  the  town  hid  their  flags,  the 
brave  old  lady  nailed  a  small  American  liar 
to  a  staff,  and  placed  it  at  her  window. 
Jackson  came  riding  in  at  the  bead  of  his 
men.  and.  seeing  the  flag,  ordered  them  to 
shoot  it  down. 

"They  did  so.  and  the  flag  fell. '  It  was 
then  that  Barbara  caught  the  flag  up.  and, 
leaning  out  of  her  window,  waved  it  bia*b 
above  Jackson's  •  head,  crying  to  himt 
"Shoot  me  if  you  dare,  but  spare  the  flag." 
Jacksou  halted,  looked  up  at  the  brava 
old  lady.  and.  to  the  ererlasting  glory  of 
the  man  and  soldier,  ordered  his  men  td 
march  on.  .  ; 

"That  was  about  the  way  the  incident 
was  related  tome  by  Mr.  Bamsburg."  said 
Mrs.  Southwortli,  "and  upon  my  son  re- 
margins, 'what  a  Brand  subject  for  a  room 
bv  Whmier,  mother,'  I  at  once  sat  down 
and 

-Wrote  to  Mr.  Whittier. 

telling  him  the  story  and  acquainting  hire 
with  iny  son's  suggestion.  I  received  aa 
early  reply,  which  was  as  follows: 

AXFKRtET.  0  >IO.   g,  180.1.     ; 

Myl>e»r  Mrs.  Sonthwwth:  t  hearnlr  thank  tliea 
for  ihy  very  kind  lrtter,  em.  its  tni'lovl  "message.^ 
It  ongir  to  liiive  fallen  into  Letter  hundft.  but  1  Lave 
Jiut  written  out  a  little  ballad  ul-'Kunan  rreitehiel 
wliirti  will  s>pp?*r  in  the  next  Atlantic.  If  11  is  ?jo4* 
for  atiythins  thi  e  "leserves  nit  the  rredit  for  tt.  I 
wish  I  OHM  :>•  <-ept  thT  Wind  lurtt.ilton  to  thy  J'l»as4 
ant  rottaee  home,  Imt  I  nm  too  mnch  of  an  iuiatl>C 
to  undertake  the  journey.  1  thunk  the*'  non"  tha 
less,  however,  for  askitui  me.  I  shall  *o  therein 
Imagination  if  I  raunot  otherwiee.  With  hest  »:sh»s 
for  tli.r  health  and  happiness*.  I  urn  most  truly  tlij 
friend,  ,  John  u.  Whittikc. 

"I  must  tell  you."  explained  Mrs.  South- 
worth,  after  <ho  had  shown  the  reporter  the 
original  of  Whittier's  letter,  "that  1  had 
known  Mr.  -\Vhittier  many  years  previous 
to  the  late  war.  He  was  one  ot  tny  entiisst 
literary  friends.  1  made  his  acquaintance 
at  the  home  of  Dr.  Bailey,  the  editor  of  tl.i 
National  Era  in  1S47.  'At  thai  tnu*  my 
tlrst  serial  story.  'Retribution.'  was  ruunmg 
in  that  publication.  Previous  to  our  ac- 
quaintance !';■.  Hai lev  handed  me  a  i»tter 
written  to  him  by.  Mr.  Whittier.  spe&King 
very  kindly  of  my  Story. 

"Meeting  Mr.  Winttier  shortlyafterth.it 
an  acquaintance  begun  which  em>>l  only 
at  his  death. 

"Wo  also  corresponded  'or  maaly  ye  irs, 
and  when  I  sent  inn.  the  story  of  'UarlKira 
Frei  cuie,'  I  wrot  >  him  that  I  consiili-ieii 
it  a  messags  from  t  he  soirit  world.  Barbara 
diets,  if  1  remember  correctly,  sh<  rt!y  •  •' -r 

the   incident  related,  and.  the.<;t'         ' 

had  the  pleasure  of  reading  Mr.  W.i it; 
beautiful    lines,    which    liN    appears    .    I 
think,  in  the  Atlantic  of  Octobei,  ls«w. 

"I  visited  Mr.  Whittiur  at  his  home  in 
Amesimry  in  is7:t.''  said  Mrs.  Sov.taworth, 
"in  company  w  uh  my  .son  and  Mr.  ll.nns- 
bl'.rg.  I  well  remember  that  we  hail  no 
little  dirhculty  in  discovering  his  resilience. 
On  the  streets  of  the  town,  in  answer  to 
inquiries,  we  we-o  told  by  several  pcr-ons 
that  they  knew  wh-re  a  slinenuUr  by  this 
name  oi  Winterer  lived,  but  did   net    Know 

jus: 


Where  the  Poet  Be.ldetl.  | 

"Mr.  Whittier's  residence,  we  found,  ta 
be  a  small  two-story  frame  cottage,  settlnsr 
hack  lu  a  yard  well  shaded  oy  trees.  lit 
answer  to  our  rap.  Mr.  Whittier  himself  apl 
psared  at  the  door,  and,  when  1  had  introt 
duced  my  party,  cordially  welcomed  us) 
intoaverv  plainly  furnished  little  parlor! 
the  furniture  being  of  the  old-fxshiO'ied 
horsohair  style.  We  talked  of  the  lata  wa| 
among  orher  things,  and  of  the  emancir1* 
tion  or  the  sluxes,  for  which  Mr.  Wlnftiei1 
had  l.iboro  I  so  lontr.  Mv  mo:i  asked:  'Are 
you  net  nrouci  of  the  result,  Sir.  Whittier. 
And  I  shall  never  iorcet  his  answer  a«  tie 
bowed  his  nead.  nud  in  a  low.  vpico  filled 
with  emotion  replied.  'I  am  very  thankfnL* 

"It  was  then  about  an  hour  after  noon,1* 
continued  Mrs.  South  worth,  "autl  Mr.  Whit- 
tier suil'lciily  .isked:  'Did  rl.eo  lunch  be- 
fore leaving  Ha>:on?'  \Sn  answered  no. 
when  he  rem.irkea:  'Oh,  then,  thei  ntnst, 
and  excused  himself  for  a  few  moments, 
Upon  his'returntnthoroom.wo  resumed  cntr 
conversation,  until  about  Italian  hour  ..hit. 
A  youmr  lady  opened  the  door  between  tii^ 
little  parlor  imiiI  the  dining  room,  an iT  In- 
vited us  to  partake  of  a  light  lunch  of  tea. 
home  made  bread  aad  butter  cukes  and 
preserves.  \ 

"The  house  wis  plainly  furnished  «n« 
neatly  kept,  and  in  everv  nook  and  corner^ 
even  on  the  landings  of  the  stairs,  Ihki'<s 
were  s,-attci'oJ  at»out.  Keturiimsr  to  t:ie 
parlor  wi  inlkcd  o'  Barbara  Fre iti-hio.  ..n  I 
''■Ir.  NVhtmer  showed  us  Barbara's  cane>, 
which  a  fnciid  of  his  seeured  uiwn  a  visit 
to  Frederick,  to  verify  the  incident  wliHsh 
formed  tlie  subject  of  the  po?n». 

"Mr.  W'li'ittier  informed  us  that  !ifl 
friend  had  i.mml  ;ho  ^tory  t<i  he  sutistH  i- 
tlully  true  Vniai  .-.s  1  have  related  if.  am! 
the  cane-,  he  sni  •.  iheohl  lady  ossal  t  >."»ke 
att|,(  'iifle  rni;  •  •>!  ibe  town  who  '"•  ^l'd 
feme  sbotrth«r  !:on«?aud  hurrah  Kc  •>es7 
l>*vi- 


THE  POETSLEEPS. 

JOBS  G.  TrrfltTI&lt  T^jtSiED 
AWAY  YESTERDAY* 


IEE  EKB  CAME  PEACETT/LLT   AT  JUMP 
^itO-,      TON  r ALLS,  at  H.      £tfsV9; 


aJLrt»iHaV 


im. 


WITH  THE  FIRST  BREAKING  OF  THE 
DAWN  HIS  SOUL  WINCED  ITS  FLIGHT. 


He  Was  Conscious  Until  the  Very  Last  Moment 
—The  Story  of  a  Lour  aad  Useful  Life— How 
His  Early  Tears  Were  Spent— The  Triad- 
ship  of  William  Lloyd  Garrison  of  Great  As* 
sis  tar.  c«  to  Him— He  Tarlv  Tmhihsd  a  Lore 
Tor  the  Poems  of  Bums  aad  Bat  Jtaiy  At- 
tempts Were  After  the  Style  oi  the  Soateh 
Sard— Notable  Celebration  of  Ss  70th  Btrth- 
dav-Jriom  That  Time  His  Birthday  Wu 
Marked  by  Celebrations  Tsar  by  Tear— Gen- 
eral Sorrow  Expressed  at  Ss  Death. 

Hampton,  X.  H..  Sept  7.— J.  G.  Whittier, 

the  gentle  poet,  died  at  4:30  this  morning  of 
heart  failure.  He  died  peacefully  and  was 
conscious  to  the  last  moment  of  his  death. 
The  funeral  will  occur  at  Ameabary,  Haas.. 
Saturday,  al  2:30  r.n. 

i  His  ne  a  rest  relatives  Were)  with  him 
.when  he  r>3«sed  away. 


Accordin,  to  the  Quaker  custom,  tbere 
will  be  no  sermon  preached  at  the  funeral 
Services  over  the  body.  The  services  will 
be  quite  simple. 

At  Hampton  Falls  be  has  been  the  guest 
of  old  friends,  "bis  sojonrn  bavin?  been  at 
the  house  of  Miss  Sarah  A,  Gov.  in  an  an- 
cient colonial  mansion.  Hampton  seems  to 
have  been  a  place  -  of  unusnal  interest  to 
Mr.  Whittier.  The  town  appears,  first  seen, 
perhaps,  across  tbe  marshes;  -  with  their 
myriad  haystacks  seemingly  dancing  as  tbe 
train  Hies  oast,  but  an  ordinary  seaside 
town.  Nowhere*  else  fn  New  England  is 
there  snch  a  prairie  as  this.  At  several 
points  the  marsh  is  divided  by  rocky  par- 
titions that  reach  seaward, 'forming  in  ono 
place  the  bluffs  Of  Boar's  Head,  and  In  an- 
other spot  the  three  river*  ronyerge.  and. 
Joining  thvir  swirling  waters,  floVtofjetlier 
past  tbe  rocks  of  Rivermouth.  -This  is 
made  memorable-,  by  Whittier's  legendary 
poem,  "The  Wreck  of  Rivermouth." 

HIS ''»  US  T  L  CFE. 


Bis  Earliest  Effort  ContribuUa  tie  Oarrison's 
.  Paper— Pays  His  Own  Way  Through  School 

Thomas  Whittier/  thq-r-flrst"  of  the 
family  in  this  country,  was  born 
in  the  same  year  in  which  the  Pil- 
grims .  landed  ■  upon  Plymouth  Bock, 
and  sailed  from  '  Southampton,  Eng- 
land, for  Boston,  in  the  ship  Confi- 
dence of  London  In  April,  1638;  He  settled 
upon  a  tract  of  land,  in.the  town  of  Salis- 
bury, on  the  banks  of  the  Powow  River,  a 
tributary  of  the  Merrimac.  A  few  years 
later  he  removed  to  .Haverhill,  where  he 
erected  a  log  bouse,  which  he  inhabited  a 
great  many  years.  'About the  year  1688  he 
erected  a  large  sh»d  substantial  mansion, 
which  has  since,  been  the  Home  of  his 
descendants  and  in  .-which  the  poet  was 
born,  December  17,  1807. 

John  Greenleaf  Whittier  was  Jibe  fourth 
In  descent  from  the" founrfetei  the  Ameri- 
can branch  of  the  family.  It  is  regarded  as 
not  a  little  remarkable,  by  Mr.  Whittier's 
biographer,  that  the'  lapse  *  of  nearly  two 
centuries  should  see  but  four  generations 
In  the  poet's  line  of  descent,  the  more  es- 
pecially as  the  family  has  been  prolific  of 
sons  and  daughters.  T,he  seeming  anomaly 
is  explained  in  the  fact  that-the  poet's  line 
fs  descended  in  every  generation  through 
tbe  younger  sons  of  the  families. 

The  grandmotber  of  tbe  poet  was  Sarah 
Greenleaf  of  Newbury,  who  married  Joseph 
Whittier,  tbe  son  of  Joseph,  the.  son  of 
Thomas.  The  elder  Joseph  was  married  in 
lfttt  to  Mary  Peasley,  whose  father.  Joseph 
Peasley,  was  well  known  in  those  early 
days    in    tbe    history    of  ,'onr  country  as  a 

?irominent  member  of  thes'*ciety  of  Friends, 
b,en  opnrobrlonsly  called  .Quakers.  It  was 
through  the  family  of  his  great-grandmother, 
then,  that  the  poet  received  bis  Quaker 
birthright,  and  that  the-  family  became 
Identified  with  the  fortunes  of  that  once 
despised  and  persecuted,  but  new  warmlr 
respected,   sect.    From    the   family  of  bis 

grandmother,  Sarah  Greenleaf,  he  received 
is  name,  combined  with  that  of  his  father 
John,  wbo  was  born  Hot.  23. 1760. 

In  Whistier'a  poem,  "A  Name,"  Which 
be  addressed  to  his  grand-nephew,  he  thus 
alludes  to  the  name  of  .Greenleaf,  and  its 
origin  :— 

Tbe  name  the  Gallic  exile  bore, 
St.  Malo.  from  thy  ancient  mart, 

Became,  upon  our  Western  shore, 
Greeuleaf  for  Feuillevert. 

f  Tbe  mother  of  the  poet  was  Abigail, 
daughter  of  Joseph  Hussey  of  Somers worth. 
{now  called  Rollinsford),  N.  H.  The  two 
Were  married  October  3,  1804,  and  lived  in 
wedlock  28  years,  when,  in  June,  1833,  the 
connection  was  severed  by  the  death  of  the 
husband. 

•"Abigail  Hussey,  the  poet's  mother,"sa;-s 
1st.  Whittier's  biographer,  ''was  descended 
from  Christopher  Hussey,  a  fellow  towns- 
man       with       Thomas        Whittier         in 


121 

Haverhili.  who  afterward  removed 
jto  Hampton,  N.  H.,  "  where  he 
■married  the  daughter  of  Rev.  Stephen 
Bachelor  (sometimes  written  Batchelder), 
the  first  minister  of  that  town.  The  Hus- 
iseys  oar  -  from  Boston.  Eng.,  and  were 
pecple  of  distinction,  both  in  the  old  coun- 
try and  the  new." 

From  the  same  family  stock  were  de- 
scended Daniel  Webster,  William  Pitt  Fes- 
■endeo,  Caleb  Gushing,  William  B.  Greene 
and  other  prominent  men. 

John  Whittier,  tbe  10th .child  of  his 
father  and  the  father  of  tbe  poet,  waa  born 
Nov.  22,  l?Gn,  and  to  him  and  to  his  wife 
Abigail  were  four  children  born.  These 
were  Mary,  born  in  180^ ;  John  Greenleaf. 
born  Dec  17.  1807;  Matthew  Franklin, born 
in  1812;  and  Elizabeth  Hussey,  born  in 
1815.  The  youngest  of  theso  was  the 
shortest  lived,  and  died  in  1864.  The  onlr 
brother  of  the  poet  lived  to  the  a?e  of  71, 
and  died  in  1883,  The  eldest,  M;iry,  and 
her  brother  John  were  lifelong  companions. 
She  was  his  keenest,  though  hi>  most  con- 
siderate ciitic;  and  to  her  encouragement, 
doubtless,  is  due  much  at  his  success  as  a 
man  of  lettetst  Her  death  was  doubtless 
jkbe  areatesLgrief  it  his  Ufa. 

Tbe  old  WTmtfer^horoestea'd.'whreh  was 
erected  by  the  gv?at-gci'a,t-graudfather  of 
the  poet,  and  in  which  lie  himself  '"tirst 
breathed  the  vital  air,"  is  a  large  mansion, 
solidly  framed  of  hewn  oak.  It  whs  burtP 
after  the  manner  of  wan v  of  the  early 
colonial  houses,  being  of  two  stories  in 
froiit.  while  in  the  rear  the  roof  sloped 
back  to  a  sinu'l'!  .story.  In  the  year  1801 
tlu«  architectural  peculiarity  was  obliter- 
ated bv  improveui  snts  made  in  the  edilice 
by  the  father  cf  the  poet.  "It  is  now," 
says  the  biographer,  "more  open  to  view 
from  the  mam  .oad  than  it    was    60   years 

irly  age  he  was  set  at  work  on 
tbe  farm  ,md  in  assisting  his  mother  in 
household  duties.  His  leisure  hours  were 
passed  iu  roaming  the  woods  and  fields, 
and  uis  comrnn  mugs  with  nature  were  cer- 
tainly heartfelt.  Many  of"  the  poet's  finest 
touches  founu  their  inspiration  in  these 
hours  of  what  was  then,  perhaps,  termed 
idleuess,  but  which  bore  its  fruit  in  after 
years.  Ih  his  poem,  "The  Barefoot  Boy," 
we  taste  some  of  these  fruits. 

He  early  imbibed  a  love  of  the  verses  of 
Burns,  through  a  wandering  Scotchman, 
wbo  stoppeil  a  while  at  his  father's  house, 
and  bis  earliust  attempts  at  verse  were  aftei 
the  manner  of  the  Scottish  bard.  His  first 
schoolmaster,  Joshua  Coffin,  so  says  Whit- 
tier himself  in  a  little  autobiographical 
pamphlet,  brought  to  his  father's  house  a 
volume  of  Burns,  and  his  delight  in  read- 
ing it  ".as  very  great.  "The  poetry  of 
Burns  rind  the  Scottish  music  had  enrhralled 
him,  ami  hi«  en  feelings  began  to  shape 
themselves  in  ibyme."His  sister  Mary  gave 
him  much  encouragement,  and  for  a  time 
she  alone  shared  his  secret  with  him. 

It  was  about  this  time  that  William  Lloyd 
Garrison  was  an  indentured  apprentice  to 
the  proprietors  of  the  Newbury  port  Herald, 
and  was  pccustomed,  from  time  to  time,  to 
contribute  to  its  columns.  Later,  Garrison, 
in  1820,  established  the  Newburyport  Free 
Press.  Of  this  newspaper  the  father  of 
Whittier  was  a  subscriber. 

One  day  Mr.  Garrison  received  a  poem 
anonymously  contributed,  which  he  pub- 
lished in  the  poet's  corner.  A  day  or  two 
'T^ra  young  man  employed  in  mending 
fences  in  his  father's  field  saw  the  news- 
cirricr  approachiug  on  horseback,  and  re- 
ceived from  his  hand  a  moment  later  a 
copy  of  the  newspaper.  His  eye  first  fell 
upon  his  own  ,verses,  and_  for  a  few  mo- 
meuts  he  was  speechless.  "This  poem  was 
"The  Deity,"  a  versified  amplification  of 
:>»i  scriptural  passage,  1  Kings  xix.  11, 1-. 
-ind  was  in  blank  verse,  somewhat  in  the 
manner  of  "Paradise  Lost,"  though  it  is 
.lot  it  all  certain  that  ho  bad  at  that  tiire 
sc  .uuch  as  heard  of  Milton. 

This  was  eariy  in  the  year  1823.  In  the 
summer  of  that  vear  Whittier  was  one   day 


called  from  the  cornfield,  at  tbe  summons 
of  a  visitor.  It  proved  to  be  Garrison,  who 
had  discovered  through  the  medium  of 
Mary  Whittier  the  identity  ef  the  author 
of  the  ooems  which  he  had  received  and 
published ;  for  the  first  success  had  embold- 
ened the  young  ma  n  to  make  fresh  venture*. 
Mr.  Garrison  earnestly  commanded  tbe 
young  man's  work  and  prophesied  for  him 
a  brilliant  future.  He  urged  upon  the 
father  that  the  son  be  offered  an  oppor- 
tunity for  a  more  extended  education,  but 
in  those  days  of  small  things  this  teemed 
an  insurmountable  task.  The  young  roan, 
bimselt,  however,  overcame  all  obstacles, 
and  by  working  at  tbe  shoemaker's  bench 
be  obtained  funds  sufficient  to  pay  for  a 
course  of  six  months  at  an  academy. 

In  the  autumn  of  1828,  Garrison,  who  was 
then  in  Boston,  where  he  bad  founded  the 
National  Philanthropist, '  procured  for 
Whittier  a  position  on  the  staff  of  tbe 
American  Manufacturer,  where  '  he  re- 
mained for  several  months,  at  a  salary  of  ?9 
per  week.  In  June,  1820,  he  returned  to  his 
father's  farm,  where  be  remained  until 
July,  1830.  During  this  period  his  pen  was 
prolific,  but  though  his  productions  gavs 
promise  of  genius,  none  of  them  are  re- 
garded as  having  great  merit.  Still,  as  his 
biographer  says,  "*he  juvenile  poems  are 
not  to  be  despised.  Tber  are  the  sunken 
piles  that  stand  under  tbe  slowly-reared 
edifice  of  bis  fame.".. 

In  1830  Mr.  Whittier  succeeded  George  D. 
Prentice  in  the  editorial  chair  of  the  New 
England  Review.  During  his  connection 
of  ih  years  with  tbis  publication.  Whittier 
wrcto  and  published  no  less  than  42  poems, 
many  of  which  are  preserved  among  bis 
collected  works.  At  this  time.  Mr.  Whittier 
was  but  22  years  of  age. 

He  retained  his  position  until  January, 
1832,  when  his  health,  always  delicate, 
forced  him  to  retire  from  journalistic  life. 
In  the  meantime,  his  tirst  volume  was  pub- 
lished, under  the  title,  "New  England 
Legends  in  Prose  and  Verse."  Many  of 
these  eariv  productions  Mr.  Whittier,  in 
later  years,  caused  to  be  suppressed  as  on- 
worthy  of  his  reputation. 

Leaving  Hartford,  he  returned  to  Haver- 
hill, and  for  a  time  devoted  himself  wholly 
to  literature,  the  greater  portion  of  his 
work  appearing  in  Buckingham's  New  Eng- 
land Magazine,  then  published  in  Boston. 
But  just  then  the  slavery  question  began  to 
be  uppermost  in  the  minds  of  the  people. 
Thenceforth  his  life  was  to  be  devoted  to 
the  cause  of  freedom  and  of  universal  broth- 
erhood. Tbe  heart  ef  tbe  yourg  man 
Whittier  was  fired  and  be  entered  tbe  lists, 
throwing  down  as  bis'  gauntlet  a  pamphlet 
with  the' title,  "Justice  and  Expediency; 
or,  Slavery  Considered  with  a  View  to  Its 
Rightful  and  Effectual  Remedy,  Abolition." 
Tbis  pamphlet  -was  priuted  ia-ft433,  at  tbe 
author's  sole  expense.  Says  the  biographer 
concerning  this  pamphlet:  "It  covers  the 
ground  completely,  and  its  positions  were 
never  met  in  argument,  only  by  evasions, 
misstatements,  or  more  commonly  by  abuse 
or  personal  violence." 

From  this  time  forward  Whittier's  pen 
was  never  idle.  He  had  embarked  in  a 
great  cause.  He  was  a  target  for  abnse, 
but  he  persevered.  He  was  threatened 
with  legal  proceedings  and  with  personal 
violence,  but  he  was  -  undaunted.  Gov- 
ernors of  States  offered  rewards  for  his 
head,  but  he  was  not  silent.  Thoroughly 
earnest,  active,  aggressive,  he  lost  no  op- 
portunity for  insisting  upon  the  great 
truth,  which  Is  now  recognized  throughout 
the  land,  of  the  sacredness  of  the  right  of 
pL i. soual  freedom.  He  was  attacked  by  a 
moh  in  Concord,  N.H. ;  he  witnessed  the 
mob  in  Boston,  when  bis  friend  Garrison 
wns  dragged  through  the  streets  with  a 
r<  I  e  ah'itit  his  neck. 

Rev.  S.  J.  May.  himself  one  of  tbe  fore- 
mast of  the  anti-slavery  men,  says  of  .Whit- 
tier "Bet  of  all  our  American  poets,  John 
(>.  Whittier  has  from  first  to  last  done 
m^sf  .'..r  the  abolition  of  slavery."  A  suffi- 
cient eulogy,  surely,  for  any  man* 


In  May.  1838,  Mr.  Whittier  wa»  tgain  tor 
a  time  the  editor  of  the  Haverhi'  l.rcJe. 
Later,  lie  was  one  oi  the  ieti?u.  ••«  i<  the 
National  Anti-Slavery  Society,  tn  H;",  he 
was  engaged  as  a  writer  upon  the  staff  o( 
the  Pennsylvania  Freeman,  published  in 
Philadelphia.  In  March,  183d,  he  became 
its  editor,  but  resigned  two  years 
later.  During  hi*  occupancy  oi  the  edi- 
torial chair,  the  building  in-  which  the 
office  of  the  newspaper  -was  located  wo* 
tacked  and  burned  by  a  mob,  egged:  on  by 
Jbamaxor-fi&SbftJttV  ' 

UfW ieamvsr-;r"BUadelphla  be  TetWBen 
to  Massachusetts,  and  in  1845  the  Whittier 
family,  having  sold  the  larm  in  Haverhill, 
removed  to  Amesbury,  where  ho  has  for 
Inany  years  lived.  He  was  moulding  the 
minds  of  men  for  the  great  struggle  about 
to  come.  It  was  duriug  this  period  that 
many  of  hi*-poems,  afterwards  collected  in 
a  vjlumeientif ted  "Voices  of  Freedom,'- 
wra  written. 

In  1847  the  National  Era  newspaper  was 
established  it  Washington,  and  Wliittiei 
^tciimo  the  corresponding  editor,  which 
position  he  retained  until  1859.  "U  i  'le 
loci's  Cabin"  appeared  lirst  in  this  uev-*- 
paper,  is  e  serial,  in  1350.  Duriug  this 
period  ibove.  80  ut  Whittior's  poems  ap- 
peared :ri  its  columns.  He  was  also  * 
voluminous  contributor  to  other  per- 
iodicals', notably  th ;  Atlantic  Monthly, 
in  which  many  of  his  sweetest 
songs  first     ■    appeared.  Perhaps 

the  best  known  of  the  "Atlantic"  poems 
was  "Maud  Mailer,"  long  an  English 
classic,  and  the  "Witch's  Daughter,"  after- 
ward republished  as  "Mabel  Martin." 
Tnese  works  are  quite  equally  divided  be- 
tween the  two  classes  of  purely  literary  and 
political.  In  the  former  the  pure  noetic 
soul  of  Whittier  glows  with  a  light  a'lmost 
divine ;  in  the  latter  he  employs  satire  than 
which  none  coula  be  more  biting,  argument 
and  powerful  invective,  forming  at  times, 
as  his  biographer  says,  ofttimea  scarcely 
more  than  "rhymed  eloquence." 

But  I  have  lingered  too  long  about  the 
fascinating  narrative  of  Whittier's  earler 
years.  At  60  years  oi  age  he  was  fully 
recognized  as  one  of  the  foremost  poets  of 
the  age.  His  connection  with  the  Atlantic 
Monthly  has  been  alluded  to.  but  it  should 
be  said  that  be  was  in  reality  one  of  the 
founders  of  that  magazine,  and  to  him  is 
due  very  much  of  its  success.  These  ser- 
vices were  folly  recognized,  when  Mr. 
Whittier  had  reached  his  70th  year,  in  a 
dinner  tendered  to  the  poet,  at  which  the 
literary  men  and  women  of  New  England 
were  his  guests.  Mr.  H.  O.  Houghton,  the 
senior  publisher,'  was  seated  at  the  head  of 
the  table. 

Emerson,  Longfellow,  Holmes,  Howells, 
Charles  Dudley  Warner,  Prof.  Norton  and 
Marie  Twain  were  among  the  guests,  and 
letters  of  regret  were  read  from  Bryant, 
Curtis,  Alurich,  Bayara  Taylor,  President 
Kliot,  Mrs.  H.  B.  Stowo,  Francis  Parkman 
and  others.  Dr.  Holmes  read  a  poem,  as 
did  many  of  the  guests,  and  Mark  Twain 
brought  out  a  sketch  in  which  Emerson. 
Longfellow,  Holmes  and  Whittier  were 
made  to  masquerade  as  Western  ronghs, 
pelting  each  other  with  quotations.  The 
effect  was  rather  startling  at  firs t,  but  its 
comicality  redeemed  it. 

Whittier's  own  contribution  was  "My 
Birthday." 

Better  than  selteindulgent  years 

The  outfiunp  heart  of  youth. 
Than  pleasant  songs  in  idle  years 
The  tumult  of  the  truth. 
''  From  that  time  his  birthday  was  marked 
by  celebrations,  year  by   year.    In  1884.  on 
the  occasion  of  his  77th   anniversary,   there 
was  gathered  at  Oak  Knoll  a  pleasant  com- 
pany of    friends  and,  relatives,    who    were 
received  bv  the  veneWble  gentleman   with 
bis  customary  gentle  courtesy  and  generons 
hospitality.      In      1885,      the        beginning 
of    the     78th      year  -   of     the    poet    was 
quietly      celebrated      at      Danvers       the 
reaidence|  of   his     two    cousins.    On    the 
afternoon   of  that  day   Mr.  Whittier's  por- 


122 

trait,  wnicu  had  been  placed  inthntown 
hall  at  Haverhill,  was  unveiled  in  the  pres- 
ence of  a  large  audience.  When  he  became 
an  octogenarian  in  18S7,  be  waa  active, 
erect,  firm  and  full  of  cheerfulness.  On  his 
birthday  came  the  gorernor  and  his  wife 
and  many  distinguished  people.  There 
were  numerous  presents,  uot  intrinsically 
valuable,  but  gifts  of  loving  friends.  There 
was  a  great  basket  containing  80  red  and 
white  roses. 

Among  those  who  paid  loving  tribute,  in 
a  memorial  volume  collected  for  the  pur- 
pose to  his  wortk,  w?re  George  W.  Childs, 
Walt  Whitman,  Snwttor  Hoar.Mark  Twain, 
Secretary  Lamar.  Chief  Justice  Waite. 

Mr.  Whittier,  like  bis  ancestors,  was  tall 
— measuring*!!  feet  or  more— of  slender 
build,  but  straight  as  an  arrow.  He  had  a 
high  forehead,  a  quiet  smile,  dark,  piercing 
eyes,  and  hair  that^was  once  black,  but  in 
his  old  age  thinned  and  gray.  He  dressed 
in  a  suit  of  black,  eat.  iu  Quaker  fashion, 
and  he  retained  some  of  the  Quaker 
peculiarities  of  speech.  He  was  given  to 
long  walks,  and  was  a  most  pleasant  and 
companionable  neighbor;  but  he  was  not 
in  the  habit  of  driving,  and  he  travelled 
but  rarely  and  for  short  distances — never, 
it  is  said,  having*  gono  farthlr  than  to 
Washington. 

He  often  spent  a*  portion  of  the  winter 
in  this  city,  usually'  at  the  house  of  his 
friend,  ex-Gov.  -Ciaflin.  He  wrote  only 
wheu  the  mood  was  on  him,  and  then  very 
soon  after  the  idea  which  be  songht  to  ex- 
press had  taken  possession  of  his  mind.  He 
wrote  easily  and  with  an  absorbing  interest 
in  his  subject,  and  although  he  was  too  con- 
scientious to  send  out  crnde  writing,  his 
first  drafts  were  not  usually  greatly  altered 
by  subsequent  revision. 

Mr.  Whittier's  remarkable  preservation 
of  his  mental  strength  hus  been  bis  great- 
est pleasure  and  the  pleasure  of  his*friends. 
Although  advanced  in  years  and  always  of 
a  delicate  constitution,  even  almost  to  the 
last  moment  of  his  life  he  ceased  not  tq 
sing.  As  the  world  now  beholds  his  face 
serene  and  placid  in  its  last  sleeo  it  will 
recall  his  lines  to  his  friend  Dr.  Holmes 
published  in  the  current  issne  of  the  Atlan- 
tic Monthly.  Did  he.  as  be  wrote  these 
final  lines,  already  hear  the  rustling  of 
angel  pinions. 

The  hour  draws  near,  howe'er  <lelav*sd  and  late 
When  at  the  Eternal  Gate 
We  leave  the  words  and  works  we  call  our  own. 
And  lift  void  hands  alone. 

Whittier's  Eymaa 
Dr.  Hale  In  the  Transcript. 

Dr.  Holmes-  has  taught  ns  that  the  poet  re- 
membered by  the  most  is  hewnose  songs  are 
sacred  enough  .to  be  suntr  in  men's  churches, 
while  they  are  simple  enough  for  meu  and 
women  ot  all  sorts  and  conditions  to  remember 
them  and  want  to  sine  them.  Hehasshor.  n 
that  of  the  English  ftoeta  of  tha last  century  if 
is  not  your  graivt  i~'»rto-printin*t  Thomson  or 
Souifrville.  dedicating  their  poems  to forgotteu 
nob!  -nan,  whQ.is^icst  widely  quoted  today. 
Not  even  Cowjter  or  Alexander  Pope,  the  king 
of  thi  !n  all.  It  ?s_dear  Doctor  Watts,  of  whom 
ahmiJ.'Ct  line?  come  to  memory  and  lin  for 
one  i'^ii  the  stately  poems,  who  is  familiarly 
reuiein  -ad.  '-Both  Dr.  Uoimcsand  Mr.  Whit- 
tier have  >chieved  for  themselves  such  suc- 
cess as  i-  i hus>  described.  In  each  case  the 
success  b  i  no  to  the  writer's  babit  of  person  >l 
and  hr.ir  »  intimacy  with  all. sorts  ana  condi 
tions  of  ' 

Yet  iyioix  than  cue  of  Whittier's  hymns— 
most  of  :4ose  best  Known— were  written  vri.li 
no  thought  by  the  "Quaker  Poet"  that  they 
would  be  sung  in  "meeting."  What,  indeed, 
won!  J  Cjifije  Fox  have  stiil  had  he  been  told 
that  -  ithm  two  centuries  after  his  journey 
through  New  England,  the  song  of  a  New  Knij 
land  "l-  riend"  would  bo  sung  in  every  "steeple 
house''  iu  Now  England,  not  to  say  in  c  ery 
"steeple  house"  in  Old  England .'  Whittier 
wrote,  not  that  man  might  siu^— not.  intlen'. 
that  th.iy  might  praise  him— hut  because  this 
thing  had  to  be  said,  ara"  be  would  say  it  as 
well  a  i'ie  could  say  it  there  and  then. 

In  hundreds  of  churches,  thousands  oi  wor- 
shippers sine;  and  remember  the  nvmn— 
"O  fairest  born  of  love  and  harhi,'' 
and  th^nk  him  fc  it.      The  tine   versos  thus 
known  ?o  widely  ^rere  selected  by  his  friend, 
Samuel  l^ongfellow,  from  the  ode  to  "Democ- 


racy, which  Whittier  wrote  in  1843.  on 
"election  'lay."  There  are  out  few  men  wh« 
could  tell  us  what   the  issues  ot  that  elecaiM 


Like  a'l  America'";  literary  nun  «t  emT- 
nence,  he  was  a  ui-fcad-winner  first  asn*  poet 
next,  though  iu  his  •cas:-,  irotn  the  simplicity 
of  his  lib',  he  began  liis  endeavor  ip-pnrelr 
literary  work  earlier  than  Longfeifew .  ce 
Emerson  or  Lowell.  Hut  at  this  earlier  period 
of  his  lite  ue  was  always  on  the  side  of  toe 
abolitionists,  ready  to  assist  theta  in  any  way; 
often  giving  the  support  of  his  presence  to 
their  meetings  and  travelling  over  northern 
New  En<r!  >nd  with  members  of  the  fraternity. 
Onct  in  i  .nenri.  N.  H..  with  the  English 
abolitionist,  Lrinstrong,  he  again  narjowly 
escaped  rough  treatment  by  a  mob. 
Armstrong  and  he  had  been  to 
an  abolitionist  meeting  at  Ply- 
mouth. N.  H..  and  were  to  remain  over  night 
at  the  nous"  of  one  of  Whittier's  friends  in 
Concord.  Early  in  the  evening  the  mob  took 
possesion  ot  ihe  grounds  about  the  house  and 
demanded  the  abolitionists  within.  After 
they  bad  made  considerable  disturbance  and 
were  organizing  for  a  concentrated  movement 
upon  the  house,  a  horse  and  buggy  had  been 
quietly  prepared  for  Might  in  the, barn,  and 
Armstrong  and  Mr.  Whittier.  descending  by  a 
back  exit,  were  hustled  into  the  buggy  and 
driven  hurriedly  away,  pursued  for  some  dis- 
tance by  the  mob.  They  made  no  sMv  ou  tha 
way  back  to  Massachusetts  until  they  had  put 
distance  enough  between  them  and  their 
enemies  to  insure  sateiy.  - 

The  ooet  admitted  to  the  writer  to  having 
been  mobbed  on  other  occasions  also-,  but  did 
not  Specify  them.  Some  years  after  the  Con- 
cord episode  he  was  walking  along  ihe  street 
in  Portland,  Me.,  when  a  .man,  after  eyeing 
Hlterwrious+y  for  .some-  that*  nnaAle^-etspped 
up  and  asked:  "is  not  this  Mr.  Whittier V" 

The  poet  admitted  his  ident'ts^when  tha 
man  replied:  "I  am  somewhat ! ashamed  to 
admit  it,  but  I" was  one  of  the  members  of  that 
Concord  mob  which  was  so  desiKus  of  meet- 
ing you  at  close  quarters  some  years  ago." 

"And  what  would  the  mob  bajre  done  if  It 
had  succeded  in  getting po*esK Ion  of  ns?" 

"Probably  your  complexion  would  have 
been  changed  consid*rably?<Cxjplied  the  ex- 
mobber.  rather  sheepishly.  A.  coat  of  tar  and 
feathers  was  evidently  intended. 

"I  remember  that  one  summer  afternoon,  tip 
under  Wachusett,"  says  a  young  acquaintance 
of  his.  "I  came  with  a  friend  upon  a  pleasant 
old  farmhouse,  large  and  rambling,  where 
we  stopped  in  our  walk,  for  a  cup  of  water 
out  ot  the  well  that  we  had  spied 
from  afar.  The  master  of  the  manor  was 
comir.r-  across  the  yard  at  we  made  to  htm 
our  humble  request.  He  seemed,  not  un- 
inclined  to  talk.  .  And  when  he  learned 
where  we  had  been,  and'-  found  that  we  wen 
bound  for  Monad  noc,  heboid  us  that  Mr.  Whit- 
tier had  just  passed  that  way.  and  stopped.  I 
think,  a  night  or  two  with  him  there 
at  the  farm.  'Why,  he's  just  as  natural  and 
like  folks  as  can  be,'  he  said,  'tie  wrote 
some  poems  right,  out  here  in  the  yard  on 
a  board  he  picked  us,  and  be  was 
sittin'  in  a  kitchen  chair  he  brought 
out,  looking  toward  'Chosen  yonder.  Hia 
poems  we  can  understand,  tlio'  we're  cot  book 
people.:  lie's  like  folks,  Whittier  is.'  " 

"JMd  you  ever Ibear  the  story  ot  Whittier 
and  the  cabbage?'1  asked  an  old  friend  yester- 
day, "ft  may  have  been  told  before,  but 
it  is  worth  repeating  now.  He  hated  the 
odor  of  cabbage,  like  most  sensible  men, 
and  hnd  a  cordial  horror  of  the  right^ismell  in 
the  vrong  place,  us  Henry  James  calls  the 
fragrance  of  a  dinner  in  the  hallway.  One 
day.  however,  a  cabbage  wns  cooked  at  Oak 
Knoil.  and  most  of  it  was  left  ovor.  In  defer- 
ence to  her  cousin's  olfactories  the  mistress 
of  the  bouse  directed  her  cook  to  put 
the  cold  ca image  on  the  top  shelf  in  the  pantry 
until  next  nay.  In  the  course  ot  the  alter- 
noon  Mr.  \\  hittier  was  seen  digging  in  the 
garden.  .\  uiemDo.r  ef  the  family  asK«d  him 
what  he  was  going  to  do,  but  he  pnt  her  off 
with  a  merry  twinkle  in  nis  eyes. 
When  in  the  coarse  of  household  events 
the  cook  sought  the  cabbage  it  was  gone. 
Mr.  Whittier  had  traced  i*  to  its  eyrie:  he 
had  climbed  tin  and  had  borne  it  away  in 
trintnrb.  and  In  defiance  of  domestic  economy 
had  buried  it  iu  the  garden.  1  tell  the  story 
as  it  was  told  to  me,"  said  his  friend.  "Call  it 
'How  the  Poet  Planted  a  Cabbagstbolledi.'" 


WHITTIER. 

The  popular  poet-laureate  of  this  country 
passed  away  in  peace  on  September  7,  in  the 
eighty-fifth  year  of  his  age.  This  longevity, 
and  numerous  and  very  recent  biographies, 
have  made  the  principal  facts  of  his  unevent- 
ful life  well  known  to  the  public.  Neither  of 
the  careers  which  he  would  fain  have  deter- 
mined for  himself  was  destined  to  be  his.  From 
journalism  as  from  politics  the  farmer's  son 
was  turned  back  to  that  simple  inspiration  of 
poet  which  was  confirmed  in  him,  on  discov- 
ery, by  his  neighbor,  the  editor  of  the  New- 
buryport  Free  Press,  afterwards  the  editor  of 
the  Boston  Liberator,  The  friendship  of  those 
two  men  might  have  led  the  younger,  as  disci- 
ple, to  become  entirely  absorbed  in  the  agita- 
tion against  slavery,  in  which  he  did  in  fact 
for  a  time  do  editorial  service.  But  partly  his 
political  and  partly  his  sectarian  bias  drew 
him  away  from  Garrison  at  the  time  of  tho 
schism  in  the  abolition  ranks  growing  out  of 
political  and  sectarian  differences,  though  in 
after  years  they  came  together  without  bitter- 
ness and  with  their  old  affection.  Moreover, 
tho  poet  was  physically  unfitted 

"  to  ride 
Tho  wiugi'd  Hippogriff  Reform." 

He  was  all  his  life  a  victim  of  ill-health,  having 
brought  on  neuralgia  and  headache  by  over- 
work in  tho  early  days  of  his  journalism. 
For  many  years  ho  could  not  write  fifteen  mi- 
nutes at  a  time  without  a  headache.  A  wor- 
thy grocer  of  Amesbury,  whenever  ho  heard 
this  fact  spoken  of  with  compassion,  used  to 
disput?  the  scntimont  with  some  vehemence; 
Mr.  Whitticr's  ill-health  having,  as  he  thought, 
been  beneficial  to  his  fame  by  "  preventing 
his  engaging  in  any  business,"  and  thus  turn- 
ing him  to  poetry .  Tue  inference  seemed  to  be 
that,  with  good  health,  Mr.  Whittier  too 
might  have  been  a  flourishing  grocer,  just  as 
some  of  Sir  Walter  Scott's  neighbor ;  thought 
that  he  would  have  been  '  'sae  woel  rcspeckit ' ' 
had  he  stuck  to  the  law  and  not  wasted  his 
time  on  poetry  and  novels.  Be  this  as  it  may, 
it  is  certain  that  Mr.  Whittier's  delicate 
health  was  for  almost  all  his  lite  a  drawback 
to  continuous  mental  exertion,  although  care 
and  watchfulness  greatly  benefited  his  general 
condition  during  his  later  years.  This  im- 
proved health,  together  with  other  causes, 
produced  in  him  an  increase,  not  a  dimi- 
nution, of  sociability  and  freedom  of  in- 
tercourse as  years  went  on.  Ho  became 
more  frequently  a  guest  at  private  houses, 
where  nothing  but  an  increase  of  doafness  pre- 
vented him  from  being  a  most  delightful  com- 
panion. His  shyness  visibly  diminished — a 
quality  so  marked  in  early  life  that  it  some- 
times seemed  a  positive  distress  to  him  to  be 
face  to  face  with  half-a-dozen  people  in  a 
room. 

This  habit  showed  itself  chiefly  in  what  is 
called  society ;  with  men  met  for  political  or 
even  business  purpose*  he  was  more  at  home. 
He  was  for  many  yean  an  active  politician 
(in  1885  and  1836  he  wu  a  member  of  the 
M— ohmetti   Legislature),  and  mi  eateem- 


123 

ed — though  a  poet — a  man  of  excellent  judg- 
ment in  all  public  matters.  He  was  a  keen 
judge  of  character,  was  perfectly  unselfish, 
and  always  appeared  to  look  at  affairs  moro 
with  tho  eyes  of  a  man  of  the  people  than  with 
those  of  a  student.  Without  making  any  words 
about  it,  he  seamed  held  by  early  associations 
as  well  ns  principle  to  the  point  of  view  of 
tho  working  class.  His  whole  position  in 
this  recprct  was  very  characteristic  of  Ameri- 
can life;  had  he  lived  in  England  and  among 
the  social  restrictions  of  that  more  stereo- 
typed society,  he  would  perhaps  have  been 
simply  some  Corn- Law  Rhymer,  some  Poet 
of  the  Peoplo.  As  it  was,  there  was  no- 
thing to  keep  him  from  full  identification  with 
the  most  cultivated  class,  and  yet  he  was  al- 
ways able  to  remain  in  full  sympathy  with  the 
least  cultivated.  In  this  respect  he  was  more 
typically  national  than  our  other  bards.  His 
liberal  attitude  was  aided  also  by  his  train- 
ing in  the  Society  of  Friends.  Of  this  body 
Mr.  Whittier  was  always  a  faithful  mem- 
ber, though  never  narrow  or  technical  in 
his  spirit.  In  his  youth  his  anti-slavery  asso- 
ciations sometimes  brought  him  into  danger  of 
discipline;  and  lie  usod  to  say  jokingly  in  his 
later  years  that  tho  Society  would  gladly 
have  then  put  upon  him,  would  he  but  consent, 
all  the  committeo  work  and  the  little  dignities 
from  which  his  position  as  a  reformer  had 
excluded  him  in  his  youth.  He  always  held  to 
the  prescribed  garb  so  far  as  the  cut  of  his  coat 
was  concerned,  but  conform  ?d  to  the  ways  of 
the  world  in  his  other  attire.  He  did  not  use 
the  "thee"  to  members  of  his  own  society 
alone,  as  is  the  case  with  some,  but  presented 
it  in  his  intercourse  with  the  world  at  large. 

It  is  difficult  to  say  whether  in  his  life,  as  in 
Irving's,  an  early  romance  led  the  way  to  a 
career  of  celibacy.  A  few  passages  in  his 
writings,  but  only  a  few,  might  bear  this  in- 
terpretation, while  the  view  was  discouraged 
by  his  nearest  kindred.  It  is  certain  that  in 
later  life  he  sometimes  permitted  himself  to 
express  regret  that  he  had  never  married,  since 
all  his  tastes  and  habits  were  eminently  domes- 
tic. Ho  always  appeared  to  advantage  in  the 
society  of  women.  His  manners  had  all  the  es- 
sentials of  courtliness  in  their  dignity  and  con- 
sideration for  others,  and  while  he  had  little 
small-talk,  he  had  plenty  to  say  about  men  and 
books;  this  being  always  said  with  sympathy 
and  with  quaint  humor.  Utterly  free  from 
self-esteem,  he  was  always  g!ad  to  keep  the 
topic  of  conversation  away  from  himself,  and 
was  quite  disposed  to  rejoice  in  any  evidences 
of  obscurity. 

He  was  a  wido  reader  and  had  a  tenacious 
memory ;  but  he  spoke  no  language  except  his 
own,  nor  did  he — although  he  translated  one 
or  two  simple  French  poems — read  much  in 
any  foreign  tongue.  He  never  visited  Europe. 
He  used  to  say  that  in  early  life  he  had  a 
great  reaming  for  travel,  but  that  after 
reading  a  book  about  any  foreign  place,  he 
retained  in  his  mind  a  picture  so  vivid  that  his 
longing  for  that  particular  place  was  satisfied. 
Yet.  as  Thoreau  said  that  he  had  travelled  a 
great  deal — in  Concord,  so  Whittier  was  fami- 
liar with  New  England  and  Pennsylvania,  and 
has  done  far  more  than  any  poet  (perhaps  as 
much  as  all  other  poets  together)  to  p-eserve  the 
legends  and  immortalize  the  localities  of  these 


portions  of  our  country.  It  is  only  necessary 
to  look  through  the  New  England  volumes  of 
Longfellow's  '  Poems  of  Places  '  to  be  satisfied 
of  this.  In  his  treatment  of  legends,  his 
Quaker  truthfulness  comes  in,  and  he  generally 
produoes  his  poetic  effects  while  keeping  close  to 
history.  But  his  great  skill  lay  in  disooTery; 
everything  he  found  was  turned  to  account, 

and  he  shared  with  Hawthorne  the  honor  of 
demonstrating  that  the  early  New  England 
life  was  as  rich  in  poetic  material  as  the 
Scottish. 

Of  his  poetry  it  may  safely  be  said  that  it  has 
two  permanent  grounds  of  fame :  he  was  the 
Tyrteeus  of  the  greatest  moral  agitation  of 
the  age,  and  he  was  the  creator  of  the  New 
England  legend.  He  was  also  the  exponent 
of  a  pure  and  comprehensive  religious  feel- 
ing; but  this  he  shares  with  others,  while  the 
first  two  branches  of  laurel  are  unmistakably 
his  own.  His  drawbacks  are  about  as 
plain  and  unequivocal  as  his  merits.  Brought 
up  at  a  period  when  Friends  disapproved 
of  music,  he  had  no  early  training  in  this 
direction  and  perhaps  no  natural  endow- 
ment. He  wrote  in  a  letter  of  1883,  "  1  don't 
know  anything  of  music,  not  one  tune  from 
another."  This  at  once  defined  the  limits  of 
his  verse  and  restricted  him  to  the  very  sim- 
plest strains.  He  wrote  mostly  in  the  four- 
line  ballad  metre,  which  he  often  made  not 
only  effective,  but  actually  melodious.  That  he 
had  a  certain  amount  of  natural  ear  is  shown 
by  his  use  of  proper  names,  in  which,  after  his 
early  period  of  Indian  experiments  had  passed, 
he  rarely  erred.  In  one  of  his  very  best 
poems,  "  My  Playmate, "  a  large  part  of  the 
effectiveness  comes  from  the  name  of  the  lo- 
cality : 

"  The  dark  pines  sing  on  Rnraoth  hill 
The  slow  sons  of  the  sea." 

In  "Amy  Wentworth,"  another  of  his  best, 
he  gives  to  one  of  bis  verses  the  unconscious 
flavor  of  a  Scotch  ballad  by  using,  as  simply 
as  a  nameless  Scottish  minstrel  would  have 
used,  the  names  at  his  own  door: 

"  The  sweetbrlar  blooms  on  Klttery-slde 
And  green  are  Elliot's  bowers." 

These  are  the  very  names  of  the  villages 
where  the  scene  was  laid,  and  even  the  Kit- 
tery -aide  is  vernacular.  Whittier  sometimes 
prolonged  his  narrative  too  much,  and  often  ob- 
truded bis  moral  a  little,  but,  so  far  as  flavor 
of  the  soil  went,  he  was  far  beyond  Longfellow 
or  Holmes  or  Lowell.  If  he  lost  by  want  of 
ear  for  music,  the  result  was  chiefly  injurious 
in  that  it  impaired  his  self-confidence;  and 
where  he  bad  trusted  his  ear  to  admit  a  bolder 
strain,  he  was  easily  overawed  by  some  pro- 
saic friend  with  a  foot-rule,  who  convinced 
him  that  he  was  taking  a  dangerous  liberty. 
Thus,  in  "The  New  Wife  and  the  Old,"  in  de- 
scribing the  night-sounds,  he  finally  closes 
with— 

"  And  the  (Treat  sea  waves  below, 
Pulse  o'  the  midnight,  beating  alow." 

This  "Pulse  o'  tho  midnight"  was  an  un- 
usual rhythmic  felicity  for  him,  but,  on  some- 
body's counting  the  syllables,  he  tamely  sub- 
mitted, substituting 

"  Like  the  night's  poise,  l.eatlnjr  slow," 
which   is  spordaic   and  heavy;    but  be  after- 
wards reston  d  the  better   lino.     In  the  Fame 


way,  when  be  tang  of  the  shoemakers  in  the 
bast  of  his  "Songs  of  Labor,"  he  originally 
wrote: 

"  Thy  eongs.  Hans  Bachs  are  living  yet 
In  strong  and  hearty  German, 
And  Canning'*  craft,  and  Clifford's  wit. 
And  the  rare  good  aenae  of  Bnerman." 

Under  similar  pressure  of  criticism  ha  was 
induced  to  substitute 

"And  patriot  fane  of  Sherman  " ; 
and  this  time  he  did  not  repent.  It  it  pain- 
ful to  think  what  would  have  become  of 
the  liqnid  measure  of  Coleridge's  "  Christa- 
bel  "  had  some  tiresome  acquaintance,  possi- 
bly "a  person  on  business  from  Porlock,"  in- 
sisted on  putting  that  poem  also  in  the  stocks. 

Whittier '•  muse  probably  gained  in  all  ways 
from  the  strong  tonio  of  the  anti-slavery  agi- 
tation. That  gave  a  training  In  directness, 
simplicity,  genuineness;  it  taught  him  to 
shorten  his  sword  and  to  produce  strong  effects 
by  common  means.  It  made  him  permanently 
high-minded  also, and  placed  him,  as  he  himself 
always  said,  above  the  perils  and  temptations 
of  a  merely  literary  career.  Though  always 
careful  in  his  work,  and  a  good  critic  of  the 
work  of  others,  he  always  talked  by  preference 
upon  subjects  not  ,  literary — politics,  social 
science,  the  rights  of  labor.  He  would  talk  at 
times,  if  skilfully  led  up  to  it,  about  his 
poems,  and  was  sometimes,  though  rarely, 
known  to  repeat  them  aloud ;  but  his  own  per- 
sonality was  never  a  favorite  theme  with  him, 
and  one  could  easily  fancy  him  as  going  to 
sleep,  like  La  Fontaine,  at  the  performance  of 
his  own  opera. 

Tet  certainly  few  men  of  limited  early  train- 
ing have  brought  from  that  experience  so  few 
literary  defects  as  Whittier.  He  soon  cutgrew 
all  flavor  of  provincialism,  and  entered  into 
the  thorough  atmosphere  of  literature.  The 
result  is  that  when  he  uses  a  mispronunciation 
or  makes  a  slip  in  grammar,  it  has  the  effect  of 
an  oversight  or  a  whim,  not  of  ignorance. 
Thus  he  always  accents  the  word  "romance " 
on  the  first  syllable,  as  in 

"  Young  Romanoe  raised  his  dreamy  eyes;" 

.and  in  the  poem  "The  Knight  of  St.  John" 
has  this  bit  of  hopeless  bad  grammar: 

"  For  alnce  the  time  when  Warkworttt  wood 
Closed  o'er  my  steed  and  1." 

Yet  these  things  suggest  no  flavor  of  illite- 
racy. A  worse  fault  is  that  of  occasional  dilu- 
tion and  the  reiteration  of  some  very  simple 
moral.  D'Alembert  said  of  Richardson's 
novels,  once  so  famous,  "Nature  is  a 
good  thing,  but  do  not  bore  us  with 
her  (non  pas  jutqu'd  I'ennui )."  Whittier 
never  reaches  the  point  of  ennui,  but  he  some- 
times makes  us  fear  that  another  verse  will 
bring  us  to  it;  and  yet,  when  be  will,  he  can 
be  thoroughly  terse  and  vigorous.  He  is  al- 
ways simple — always  free  from  that  turgidness 
and  mixture  of  metaphors  which  often  mar  the 
verse  of  Lowell.  On  the  other  hand,  he  does  not 
so  often  as  Lowell  broaden  into  the  strong  as- 
sertion of  great  general  principles.  Lowell's 
"Verses  Suggested  by  tbe  Present  Crisis" 
followed  not  long  after  Whittier' s  "  Massa- 
chusetts to  Virginia,"  and,  being  printed 
anonymously,  were  at  first  attributed  to  the 
same  author.  Whittier's  poem  bad  even  more 
lyric  fire  and  produced  an  Immediate  impres- 


124 

sion  even  greater,  but  it  touched  universal 
principles  less  broadly  and  is  therefore  rarely 
quoted,  while  Lowell's 

"Troth  forever  on  the  soaffold,  wrong  forever  on 
tbe  throne  " 

is  immortal  on  the  lips  of  successive  orators. 

But  while  this  is  true,  it  is  also  certain  that 
there  is  room,  even  in  the  United  States,  for 
such  a  function  as  that  of  poet  of  the  people ; 
and  here  Whittier  filled  a  mission  apart  from 
that  of  tbe  ether  members  of  his  particu- 
lar group  of  New  England  bards.  The 
difference  was  indeed  ante-natal,  and  affords 
a  most  interesting  study.  Emerson,  Long* 
fellow,  Holmes,  and  Lowell  belonged  more 
or  less  completely  to  what  one  of  them 
described  well  enough  as  "  Brahmin  blood," 
representing  traditions  of  hereditary  culti- 
vation, if  not  always  of  station  or  wealth. 
Their  ancestors  were  to  a  great  extent  law- 
yers or  clergymen,  genM  d«  rob*.  With  the 
questionable  exception  of  Father  Batcbelder, 
Whittier  held  a  widely  different  ancestry.  But 
here  came  in  a  new  element  of  Interest:  he 
came  of  a  race  which  had  a  culture  of  its  own, 
namely,  that  implied  in  "birthright  member- 
ship" of  the  Society  of  Friends.  He  could 
say  for  himself  in  good  faith  what  Lowell  said 
only  from  a  dramatic  attitude : 

'*  We  draw  oar  lineage  from  the  oppressed." 

Nor  was  it  from  the  oppressed  alone, 
but  from  those-  who  had  suffered  in  a 
spirit  so  lofty  and  with  such  elevation  of 
purpose  as  to  yield  through  transmitted 
spiritual  influence  many  of  the  results  of  the 
finest  training.  No  one  appreciated  bett.pt 
than  he  the  essential  dignity  of  the  early  New 
England  aristocracy— he  whos)  imagination 
could  trace  back  bis  heroine's  lineage  through 
tbe  streets  of  Portsmouth,  N.  H. : 

"  Her  borne  la  brave  In  Jaffray  Street, 
With  stately  stairways  worn 
By  feet  of  old  Colonial  knights 
And  ladles  gentle- born. 

"  And  on  ber,  from  tbe  walnsoot  old. 
Ancestral  faces  frown— 
And  this  had  worn  tbe  soldler'a  sword. 
And  that  tbe  lodge's  gown." 

But  what  was  all  this  to  him  who  had  learn* 
ed  at  his  mother's  knee  to  go  in  fancy  with 
William  Penn  into  the  wilderness,  or  to  walk 
with  Barclay  of  Ury  through  howling  mobs  f 
There  is  no  better  Brahmin  blood  than  the 
Quaker  blood,  after  all.  It  was,  then,  as  from 
kinsman  to  kinsman  that  Whittier's  last  verses 
were  addressed  to  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes. 


tic*-ft>* leveller,  Se/vf.*,  )f<jl 


By  the  not  unexpected  death  of 
the  aged  Quaker  poet,  John  Green- 
leaf  Whittier,  a  notable  career  Is 
ended,  a  life  of  great  usefulness  is 
closed!^  Descended  from  Thomas 
Whittier,  who,  as  a  boy  of  18,  came 
from  Englahdiii  f63S,  and  settled  in 
Newbqry,  he  was  a  typical  New 
ISnglander,  and  was  the  embodiment 
of  these  stem  and  rugged  Puritan  vlr- 
tues  vHuch  have  given  New  England 
its  power  and- Influence  In  shaping 
American  history  and  directing 
American  destiny.    Combined  with 


these  .virtues  -  was  the "  instinct  of 
tha  reformer,  the  insight  of  the 
poet  and  the"  gentleness  of  the 
Quaker  mystic.  As  the  poet  of 
the^gfSat  anti-slavery  straggle  he 
rendered  invaluable  service,  while 
he  never  aroused  bitter  antagonisms 
and  hatreds.  Be  lived  to  see  the 
caus  ■<  to  which  he  devoted  his  life 
tr  umphant,  and  has  en  joyed  a  happy 
and  serene  old  age.  TJhere  is  a 
sweetness  and  homeliness  In  his 
poetry  which  appeals  strongly  to  the 
heart,  and  which  has  given  him  a 
peculiarly  warm  place  in  the  affec- 
tions of  the  masses  of  the  people- 
He  was  indeed 

The  hope  of  all  who  suffer. 
The  dread  of  all  who  wrong. 

A  nation  mourns  his  death,  while 

it  rejoices  in  ■  his   noble   life.  tThe 

singer  has  passed  on,  but  the  song 

still' lives. 


Boston  TfarXcripT 

NEW    ENGLAND'S  SINGER. 


Did  England's  Appreciation  of 
Whittier's  Worth. 


The   Robert 


Burns 


or   the    New 


Lon-po\,  Sent  8.  The  newspapers  this  morn- 
ins  cod  tain  editorials  on  the  death  of  John  Q. 
Whittier,  the  American  poet. 

Tbe  Times  says:  "It  mar  almost  be  sard  that 
what  Scott  did  for  Scotland.  W  hittier  did  for 
New  England.  The  moat  salient  features  of  bis 
verse  were  those  also  observaele'fn  his  personal 
character  —  sincerity,  simplicity,  earnestness 
and  manliness.'' 

Tbe  News  says:  -Whittier  sang  of  a  dis- 
tinctive New  England  life  as  no  one  ever  sang 
it  before,  and,  since  it  is  going  tbe  way  of  all 
things,  as  no  one  will  ever  singlt  again." 

Tbe  Standard  thinks  that  it  was  good  fortune 
rather  than  preeminent  merit  that  secured 
Whittier  an  attentive  and  sympathetic  hearing 
on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic  It  imagines  that 
in  America  Itself  his  claims  to  distinction  will 
be  more  energetically  questioned  than  here. 

The  Chronicle  says:  "Whittier  was  the 
nearest  approach  to  our  conception  of  an 
American  Robert  Burns  that  the  New  World 
has  given  na.  The  world  haa  lost  one  of  the 
sweetest  lyrists  of  Its  saddest  wrongs." 

The  Telegraph  say* :  "Whittier  possessed  no 
small  portion  of  Wordsworth's  peniaa  Al- 
though Inferior  to  the  best  work  of  Bryant  and 
Poe,  It  la  probable  that  his  "Mops  Mevone'  and 
'Mand  Mailer*  will  liven  long  as  Thanatop- 
sia,'  and  The  Raven.'  *• 


ft  tf   foevwvwt,  (fWt" 
THE  DEATH  OP  WHITTIEE. 

Oliver.'    Wendell*    Holmes's      Acquaintance 

with  the  Poet. 

1      »■  ■ 

BevebAt  Farms,  V ass.  (  September  8. — On 
learning  yesterday  of  31*.  Whittier's  death, 
Dr.  Oliver  Wendell  Hoimes  said:  "Mr.  Whit- 
tier was  one  of  the  sweetest  natures — bo  was 
one  of  the  swfeetcst  singers  we  ever  had  or  ever 
shall  have,  His  death  was  to  be  expected  in 
the  course  of  nature,  bnt  nevertheless  it  leaves 
me  stunned. 

Dr.  Holmes  said  he  bad  been  on  terms  of  In- 


timacy  with  Mr.  Whittisr  for  many  yean. 
His  acquaintance  with  him  dated  from  the 
starting  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly  in  1857.  He 
had  corresponded  with  him  erar  tinea  the  u, 
and  of  late  yean  had  of  ton  received  from  him 
letters  expressing  sentiments  of  the  highest  re- 
gard and  expressions  of  friendship.  The  Doc- 
tor said  he  had freqeantly  visited  Whittier  at 
Oak  KnolL  It  was,  he  said,  a  beautiful  sight 
to  see  the  pdet  among  his  trees  around  his 
home.  "The  last  time  I  saw  him  there, "  said 
Dr.  Holmes,  "  was  last  year,  when  we  had  a 
most  delightful  time  together.  When  I  came 
away  he  just  loaded  me  down  with  fruit.  It 
was  a  very  pretty  set." 

THE  BREAKFAST  TABLE. 

The  poet  Whittier  has  chosen  the  home 
of  iiis  uucestors  in  winch  to  die,— not  the 
house  but  the  oarijh  ,  for  his  tlrst  Ameri- 
can ancestor.  Rev.  Stephen  Bachiler,  lived 
'for  years  in  the  old  town  of  Hampton,  and 
hi«  daughter,  the  wife  of  Christopher 
Hussey,  lived  not  far  from  "The  Hill"  in 
Hampton  Falls,  where  stands  the  house 
of  Miss  Gove,_in  which  the  poet  had  been 
spending  the  summer  before  his  fatal 
illness.  He  is  descended  from  one  of  the 
sons  of  Christopher  Hossey,  who  himself 
seems  to  have  become  a  Quaker  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  17th  century,  when  George 
Fox  and  his  disciples  first  invaded  New 
England.  Christopher  Hussey  died  in 
Hampton  Falls,  or  Seabrook,  bat  his 
descendants  colonized  Nantucket  and  also 
established  families  in  different  parts  of 
New  Hampshire, 

The  family  of  Gove,  with  which  the  de- 
scendants of  Rev.  Stephen  bachiler  inter- 
married, was  also  long  wo',  settied  in  the 
parish  of  Hampton  Falls ;  \*od  the  lady  at 
whose  boose  Whittier  .wajj  visiting  is  a 
descendant,  no  don bt.'of  that  Edward  Gove 
who  in  1683  raised  an  insurrection  against 
Ki  nt;  Charles'  representatives  in  the  colony 
of  New  Hampshire:  was  tried  and  sen- 
tenced to  death  for  treason,  sent  to 
England,  and  there"  pardoned  by 
Charles  IX  after  a  .year's  imprison- 
ment. His  descendants  also  became 
Quakers,  and  several  of  them  were 
leading  members  o<  the  Quaker  meeting  In 
Seabrook  close  to  tbe  town  line  of  Hamp- 
ton Falls,  where  'Whittier  and  his  sister 
often  cam  from  the  neighboring  town  of 
Amesbury,  to  join,  in  the  silent  worship,  or 
to  listen  to  Mrs.  Gore,  an  eloquent  preacher, 
whose  death  Whittier  commemorated  by 
a  beautiful  '  poem  some  years  ago.  This 
meeting  house  is  now  gone,  and  I  suppose 
the  nearest  Quaker  meeting  for  the  few 
Friends  who  remain  in  She  towns  of  Hamp- 
ton Falls,  Kensington  and  Seabrook,  is  that 
at  Amesbury,  near  which  was  Whi  (tier's 
cottage,  when  I  lirst  glaited  hies, 

'.  The  fine  old  house  of  Miss  Gove  stands 
en  the  bill  wnlch  gives  its  name  to  the 
small  village,  and  not  far  from  the  falls  in 
the  little  river,  which  gave  their  name  first 
.to  the  perish,  and  then  to  the  town ;  ana 
the  Quaker  meeting  house,  ot  Seabrook  is 
some  half  mile  south  of  it.  It  was  the 
home  when  I  first  knew  it,  -  more  than  50 
.years  ago,  of  Mrs.  Wells,  the  grand- 
mother of  Miss  Gove,  a  wealthy 
widow  who  owned  also  the  large,  three 
story  tavern-house,  where  the  poet  has  been 
.dining  the  past  summer.  This  was  a 
famous  "stage-tavern"  before  the  Eastern 
B.R.  v^as  built,  but  long  since  ceased  to  be 
en  inn,  though  sometimes  a  boarding  honse 
ef  late  -years.  It  stands  where  there  was 
an  Inn  for  200  years,  I  suppose— or  from 
1B46  to  1845,  and  there  in  1741  was  the 
"George  Inn;"  bearing  the  head 
of        King        George       on       its       sign, 


125 

where  the  provincial  authorities  of 
New  Hampshire  and  Massachusetts  met  for 
dinner,  after  determining  the  boundary 
line1  between  the  two  Provinces.  Here, 
also,  and  in  the  hall  of  the  house  which  is 
now  standing,  Daniel  Webster  pleaded  an 
Important  law  case  before  referees  while 
be  was  practising  law  at  Portsmouth.  As 
is  well  known.  Webster,  as  well  aa  Whit- 
tier, descended  from'  Rev.  Stephen  Bachi- 
ler, and  his  Bachiler  ancestors  lived  on  a 
farm  \\  miles  north  of  Miss  Gove's,  where 
eow  stand*  jthe  villa  of  Warren  Brown. 

Of  this  whole  region  between' the  Merri- 
mac  end  the  Plscataqua,  between  the  Deer- 
field  Mountains  and  the  seashore,  Whittier 
has  been  the  local  poet;  there  is  scarcely  a 
hill  or  stream  or  viHage  therein  which  be 
has  not  celebrated  in  his  Dooms.  His  an- 
cestors or  his  cousins  lived  all  about  this 
region,  which  was  in  fact  the  whole  of 
the  old  colony  of  New  Hampshire  when 
the  Huaseys  were  important,  magis- 
trates there.  Hampton  Beach,  three  or 
four  miles  from  Miss  Gove's  house,  whs, 
often  visited  and  sometimes  sung  by  Whit- 
tier ;  and  he  has  even  described  a  fatal  voy- 
age down  the  Hampton  River.  wtych  has  a 
course  of  only  a  few  miles  before  reaching 
the  ocean,— tne  first  navigable  stream  north 
of  (be  Merrimac  Up"  this  stream  lu-Ooto- 
ber,  1638,  sailed  Whlttier's  first  American 
ancestor,  Stephen  Bachiler.  accompanied 
by  young  John  Winthrop,  afterwards  gov- 
ernor of  Connecticut,  for  the  purpose  of 
^laying  out  tbe-plantatlon  of  Hampton;  and 
a  few-month*  let»r,  his  teednrighnji^  Mrs. 
Christopher  Hussey,  with  her  husband,  and 
tfaa  Widow  Sanborn,  with  her  three  sens. 
Joined  tbelr  father  in  the  new  plantation, 
of  which  be  was  the  first  minister. 

No  poet  of  New  England  has  lived  so 
close  to  the  actual  habits  of  the  people,  in 
the  present  and  the  past  centuries,  as  did 
Whittier;  and  his  poems  of  locality' will' 
become  as  much  a  feature  of  New  England 
litarature  aa  ace  those  of  Burns  or  Scott  in 
their  native  country.  This  fidelity 
to  homely  fact  and  profound  senti- 
ment have  made  Whittier  more  than  any 
other  the  patrtat  and  religious  poet  of  New 
Hampshire  and  eastern  Massachusetts. 
He  has  done  in  verse  what  Hawthorne  did 
in  prose ;  it  was  only  the  accident  or  accom- 
plishment of  verse  Which  separated  these 
two  poets,  and  made  one  of  them  our  most 
graceful  and  romantic  prose  writer;  while 
tne  other  became  our  most  spiritual  and 
literal  poet.  F.  B.  Sasbobk. 

Concord,  Sept.  7. 

MY  TRIVMPH. 

By  John  Oreenleaf  Whittier. 
Th  a  autumn-time  has  come ; 
On  woods  that  dream  ot  bloom 
And  over  purpling  vines. 
The  low  sun  fainter  shines.1 
1  he  aater  flower  is  failing. 
The  hazel's  cold  is  paling; 
Yet  overhead  more  near 
The  eternal  stars  appear, 
And  present  irra tirade 
Insures  the  future  good. 
And  for  the  things  I  see 
I  trust  the  things  to  be. 
That  in  the  paths  untrod. 
And  the  long  days  of 'God, 
My  feet  shall  still  be  led. 
My  heart  be  comforted. 
O  loving  friends  who  love  toe!' 

0  dear  ones  gone  above  met 
Careless  of  other  fame, 

1  leave  to  yon  my  nam*. 
Hide  it  from  evil  praises, 
8ave  it  from  evil  phrases: 

Whv.  when  dear  lips  that  spake  It 
Are  dumb,  shonid  strangers  .wake  it? 


Let  the  thick  curtain  faiLj, 
I  better  know  than  all    '  i  ' 
How  little  I  have  gained. 
How  vast  the  unavelneetj 
Not  by  the  page-work  palntef 
Let  life  be  banned  or  sainted; 
Deeper  than  written  kstoU 
The  colors  of  the  teeL 


Sweeter  than  any  ping 
My  songs  that  found  no 
Nobler  than  any  fact 
My  wish  that  failed  to  act 
Others  shall  ting  the 
Others  shall  right  the 
Finish  what  I  begin,' 

And  all  I  fail  to  wtaj 

What  matter.  I  or  they. 
Mine  or  another's  day. 
So  the  right  word  be  said 
And  life  begrweeter  made? 
Hall  to  the  coming  singers!         - 
Hail  to  the  brave  ligh  t-Bringen  J 
Forward  I  reach  and  sbard  ! 
All  that  they  sing  end  darei. 
The  sirs  of  Heaven  blow  o'er  me  J 
A  glory  shines  before  me ,  . 
Of  what  mankind  shell  bay— 1 . 
Pure,  generous,  brave  and  free- 
A  dream  of  man  and  won— n 
Diviner  but  still  huesan. 
Bolting  the  riddleoW. 
Shaping  the  Age  of  Gold! 

The  love  of  God  and  neighbor  i 

An  equal-handed  labor; 

The  richer  life,  where  beauty 

Walks  band  in  band  with  duty. 

Ri  ng  bells  In  un reared  steeples.  I 

The  joy  of  unborn  peoples f  ■    • 

Sound,  trumpets  far  off  blown. 

Your  triumph  is  my  own,    ' 

Parcel  add  part  of  ail. 

I  keep  the  festival. 

Fore-reach  the* good  to  be. 

And  share  the  victory.       ' 

I  feel  the  earth-move  sunward, ' 

I  join  the  great  march  onward. 

And  take,  by  .faith,  while  living. 

My  freehold  of  thanksgiving.       I     

POET  TO  POBT.    J 
This  was  Mr.  Lowell's  verse  for  Mr,  Whittier 
on  his  80th   birthday,  as   published  In  the  fa- 
mous Whittles  edition  of  The  Advertiser  of 
that  vear  :— 

How*  fair  a  pearl  chain,  fffnty  suiHia.  \ 

Lustrous  and  hallowed  every  one 
With  saintly  thoughts  and  sacrefi  song 
As 't  were  the  rosary  of  a  nun. 

Walt  waiunan. 

^S  THB  GREEK'S'  STOX4X  TXAJOB.  3-^T 

For  Whlttier's  SOtn  brrthdaa,  Dae.  17.  UpjT. 

As  the  Greek's  signal  flame,  Oy^antlqae  rec- 
ords told, 

(Tally  of  many   a   narn -strain 'd  battle,  straw- 

/ ,      gle,  year— triumphant  only  at  the  l*»c) 

Rose  rro.i\  the   hilltop,  like  applause   end 
glory. 

Welcoming   in  fame  some  -special  veteran, 
hero, , - 

WTrh  roar  He^VreWlEtVf.    UN  abed    he'd" 
.  '    served. 

So  I  aloft   from   Mannanattal  isip-Ols— I 
■wore. 

Lift  high  a  kindled  brand  for1  thee.  6M  NseT 

Thome*  Weit worth  Higgiasoa, 
To  J<*o  Qsenleaf  Whitttor.     . 
At  dawn  ot  manhood  came  a  voice  td  Be 
TMatsaidto  startled  conscience,    "Sleep  Bat 

'     more!"      •  ■••■,-* 

Like  some  load  cry  that  peals  from  deer  to 

door 
It  roused  a  generation,  and  I  see 
Now  looking  back  through  years  or  memory 
That  all  of  school  or  college,  all  the  lore 
Of  worldly  maxims,  all  the  statesman's   store 


126 


'Were  nought  beside  that  voice's  master y. 
If  any  goou  to  me  or  from  me  came 
Througn  life,  and  if  no  influence  less  divine 
Has  quite  usurped  the  place  of  duty's  Dame ; 
It. aught  row  worthy  in  this  heart  of  mine. 
Aught  that,  viewed  backward,  wears  no  shade 

of  shame; 
Bless  thee,  old  friend t  for  that  high   call    was 

thine. 

Thomas  Wkxtworth  HroomgoiT, 
Cambridge,  Dec.  17. 1887. 

Oliver  Wendell  Holmes. 
To  John  Greenleaf  Wutrtler. 

Friend,  whom  thy  fourscore  winters   leave 

more  dear  ■  " 

Than  when  life's  roseate  summer  on  thy  cheek 
Burned  in  the  Mush  of  manhood's  manliest 
year. 

.Lonely,  how  lonely!  is  the  snowy  peak 
Thy  ieet  hare  reached,  andmine  have  climbed! 

so  near  I 
Closo  <>n  thy  footsteps  mid  tho  landscaoe  ilrear 
I  stretch  my  hand  thine  answering  grasp  to 

seek. 
Warm  with  the  lore  no  ripplinu  rhymes  can 

speak! 
Look  bacKwnrtls!  From  thy  lofty  height  survey 
Thy  years  oi'  toil,  or  peaceful.  *  ictories  won. 
IK  dreams  made  roil.  largOJt  hop  s  outrun  I 
Look  forward  '    hrighter  than  fwrtii's  mcv  n'rig 

my 
?*re»nis  the  pure  lijtht  of  Hca\cn's  unsciting 

sun. 
The  all-unclouded  dawnqf  life's  immortal  day  ! 
Oliver  VVkmdkli.  Holmes. 
Boston.  Dec.  17. 1887. 


WHITTIER'8    LAST    POEM. 


clfritfr**: 


v/>  / 


WHITTIIrVS   FUNIRAL. 

The  requesttof  the  poet  that  whenever 
he  passed  away  his  fnneral  might  be  In 
keeping  with  the  sJfnpttetty  and  humility 
of  his  life  was   strictly  observed.  1  The 
day  was  a  perfectMay  for  early  autumn, 
and  In  the  house  where  he  had  lived  re- 
latives  and  frlendi  gathered  for  such 
simple' testimonials  of  affection  and  re- 
spect as"  the    Quaker*  system   allows. 
The  wfcaJ»population  f t  the  town  sought 
to  pay   some  Utfjut^jo  Its  most  distln- 
gnished  citizen.  Tbe_emblernT&f  mourn- 
ing were  (Bsplayad^t  nearly  every  house 
as  they  Vcre~~tnr~CoIfeord  on  the  day 
when  Emerson  was    burled.     It    Was 
such  a  quiet  funeral  as  WhUtler  himself 
has  ofreir4e3crib?3r*wi  It  was  a  fitting 
lowerTn^sflf    the  curtain  upon  a  great 
New  EnglXlnd^rHfbobad^gpiuiii;.  from 
•ur  country  hllteides7inttr%ho  bad  cele- 
brated in  all  m^feajtires  tho.  rural  life 
•f  New  England."**^  was  pot  ft  time  for 
mourning  tti*lM6Tm\  gene,  ^It  was  an 
occasion    for   rgjoi^prng   that,  a   life  so 
nearly  perfect  had.  been  lived  In   our 
community,  and-  had  been  enjoyed  by" 
the  people  at  Urge".    The  pastoral  sim- 
plicity and  beauty  of  this  service  will  be 
remembered  with  satisfaction  by  all  who 
had  a  share  In  It,  and  they  were  the  best 
sort  of  tribute  to  the  memory  of  a  great 
poet.    It  was  the   simple  acknowledg- 
ment of  the  beauty  and  ripeness  of  the 
life  of  a  good  and  great  man. 


Cut  fbCtAJt-'tt  <i  ImLjfvnfa 

foijj 


Facsimile  of  the  Verse  Written  for  the  Journal. 


The  last  poem  that  John  (J.  Whlttier  wrote  is 
given  in  facsimile  aoove  It  was  written  for 
The  Boston  Journal  iu  honor  of  Dr.  Holmes's 
89d  birthday  and  was  originally  published  in 
this  paper  on  the  39th  of  last  August. 

The  warmth  of  affection  that  has  always  ex- 
isted between  Me.  Whlttier  an  J  Dr.  Holmes  has 
been  remarkable,  and  when  The  Journal  pre- 
pared ir«  tributes  to  the  Autocrat  Mr.  Whlttier 
most  willingly  responded.  He  was  then  staying 
at  the  residence  of  Miss  Gove  at  Hamp- 
ton Falls,  and,  though  feeling  somewhat  weak 
on  account  of  the  weather,  was  not  deemed  to  be 
at  all  ill.  In  fact,  it  was  bopod  that  be  would 
gather  sufficient  strength  to  return  Terr  soon  to 
the  more  active  life  at  Ametbury.  But  a  few 
days  after  writing  this  verse  he  was  stricken 
with  sudden  illness,  and  In  less  than  a  week 
passed  away. 

In  publishing  tlits  poem,  as  written  br  Mr. 
Whlttier.  it  is  appropriate  also  to  repeat  the 
tribute  sent  by  Dr.  Holmes  to  The  Journal  last 
year  on  the  occasion  of  the  hut  birthday  cele- 
bration of  Whlttier.  The  Journal  at  that  time 
prepared  a  tribute  to  the  poet  who  has 
stoen  passed  away,  and  warm  words  of 
affection  were  published  from  Booert 
C  Wimhroo.  Sarah  Oroe  Jewett,  !—<•»  Lar- 
eom,  Celia  Tbaxter.  Julia  Ward  Howe.  Harriet 
Prescott  Bpofforri,  Andrew  P.  Peabody.  Rose 
Terry  Cooke.  Elizabeth  Stuait  Phelps- Ward, 
ueorge  W.  Cable,  T.  W.  Hlgginson.  Charles 
Eliot  Norton.  Donald  *2.  Mitchell  and  others. 
Dr.  Holmes's  tribute  at  that  time  was  in  the 
form  of  a  letter,  reading  as  follows: 

Jry  Dtar  WMltter: 

I  i  iiansaiiilaii  von  en  baring  cHmbed  mocker  (lacier 
and  Classed  snorter  crerawe  in  yonr  fu-mt  ot  id* 
white  summit  which  already  r>»£ins  to  «»e  the  morn- 
ing roiUstbt  of  the  coming  <— ntury.  A  IKS  »o  well 
sued  as  '  yonr*  has  b-?n  cannot  be  loo  long  for 
year  fellow -men  and  women.  In  their  affec- 
thras  you  an  pecun.  whether  yon  an  with  Uwm  here  or 
aaar  them  In  aome  higher  US*  than   theirs.    I  hope  jour 


rears  bare  sot  t»*-«ne  a  bar-Jen,  to  that  Von  are  HreS  of 
livtng.  At  our  age  we  moat  lire  ehtefry  la  'the  p*si— 
happy  it  he  who  haa  a  neat  Ilia  yoon  to  look  hack  own. 
It  la  one  of  the  fel  Ktiana  ir.cMents— t  ami  Dot  aay  aneK 
dente— of  my  life  that  the  lapse  or  time  haa  brongut  -ns 
very  near  together,  «o  that  I  Ireo,  arnny  end  myself  hon- 
ored br  seem;  mv  name  mentlorve  I  In  uear  connection 
with  j-ou  r  own.  We  are  lonely,  very  toael/.  in  these  last 
yean,  The  ImageWlfrcli  I  hare  used  before  ffcai  tn  writ- 
ing to  yon  ftreenra  war»  mora  to  ray  thought. 
We  wen  on  deck  together  a*  we  began  the  Toy- 
age  of  life  two  generations  agi.  A  whole  geaeis- 
etna  passed  and  the  etmmUiU  one  fonad  ns  m 
the  cabin,  with  a  too lly  company  of  ooevata.  Then  liie 
crnft  which  held  ua  begaa  going  to  ptaeaa,  ami  a  fen-  of 
ns  were  lert  on  Oi-  raft  ptaeid  cojether  of  tta  fragmentt. 
And  now  the  nft  hia  at  teat  purred  aad  yon  and  Itc  lea 
clinging  to  the  •oSttsry  aaar,  whlrh  la  an  that  etl'.l  remain* 
afloat  of  the  sunken  Teasel. 

lftawe  inst  been  looktag  over  the  uaadatoaaa  In  Mr, 

Oneiroid's eeaietery. entUM  "la*  rests  aad  roerryos* 

Amerlea."    IntbatTTnerafaie  raecsaacs*,  ktst  eompl-trngi 

tea  half  eentnry  *t  extslcnea— car  the  daa*  of  the  adU 

Hon   befiire  me  it  IMS— I   Had   the  aanna  of  Uveal 

Qraenl-af  Whl((l«r  and  Oliver  Wendell  Rolmea  nexteaeat 

oilier,  in  their  dne  order,  aa  fher  sboald  he.    Alt  arowadj 

an    the     names    of     the     dead—toa     Mien    of     f.** 

gotten       dead.        Three        whkm       1        «>*      there 

an      stni       araoeg     thoae     of      The       Mrrng.       }*r, 

Joan  Oaborn  Baxamt,  wlso  makes  Beraee  Ma  own   by 

I  raUbiol  atady  and  eon  by  arsoiam  inaasMKm;  laaaai 

'  McLerUa.wlrowaawTlUog*a  MSO,  and  whom  but  wort 

j  a  dated  1SSO;  and  CarsWouhM  T.  Craaeh,  araoae  noerle»j 

i  gilt  baa  too  nrety  foaad  erpmsl-m. 

Of  thea*  many  dead  von  ar*  ttt?  asast  Taaerated,  re. 

|  TereJ  and  beliTvd  aarrrvor:  of  the*e  f ew  Brtog  ihc  moat 

honored  repreeefitatrre.    LengmaTlt  be  befon  roa  In?* 

a  world  when  roar  lnflner.ee  ha*  bee*  ao   benrtraartl 

j  t*w»  fnar  eiaroble  h«  been  anoh  iDajTtrslion,  where  roij 

an  to  truly  loved,  and  when  tout  presence  bar  :•«".•,•». 
benediction.  *  * 

tlwars  a Weetlona  tely  yaaraJ 

,' 

I 


Wtaittier   Color   Blind. 

The  poet  Wnlttler,  stranjre  as  such  a 
defect  appears  In  one  who  makes  such 
effective  use  of  color  in  his  poetry,  is 
color  blind,  says  the  Chicago  JoarnaL 
He  is  able  to  describe  with  as  much 
accuracy  as  beauty  the  tints  of  the 
evening  sky  at  sunset,  the  hnes  or  clouds 
and  forest  upon  the  side  of  a  moaatain 
or  the  changing  purple,  blue  and  violet 
of  the  twilight  sea. 

Recently,  however,  his  peouliarlty  of 
vision  betrayed  him  Into  an  error, 
although  not  an  error  discoverable  by 
his  readers. 

The  Quaker  poet  shares  In  all  respects 
the  quiet  tastes  of  the  sect  Into  which, 
be  was  born,  and  shares  them  no  less  by 
temperament  than  breed. ug,  being 
naturally  one  of  the  simplest,  sedatest, 
most  retiring  and  least  showy  of  men. 

His  friends  were,  therefore,  naturally 
astonished  when  he  n  ad  a  bis  appear- 
ance one  day  not  long  aieo  with  his 
usually  sombre  carb  enlivened  by  a 
flowing  necktie  of  a  Darning  scarlet  hue. 
They  wondered  lor  a  time  in  silence; 
then  a  Tory  old  friend  ventured  to  In- 
quire: ■"" 

"Thee's  never  worn  aneoktle  like  that 
before,  Greenleaf ;  doea  the*  think  It  Is 
becoming?" 

A  little  euiprised,  Mr.  Whittier  ap- 
pealed to  the  company  foi  their  verdict, 
when,  the  color  of  the  oil  etui  in,:  d  x  ;i- 
tion  being  mentioned,  he  expressed  both 
amusement  and  dismay,  andvrdusteered 
a  promise  to  discard  it  at  onco  and  for- 
ever. He  had  purchased  it,  he  assured 
them,  under  the  impression  that  i»  was 
of  a  dull  and  de  orous  green '. 

As  in  uiativ  other  cases  of  persons 
similarly  a  •  icted.  Mr.  Whittier's  coior 
blindness  Is  only  partial,  and  is  limited 
to  an  Inability  to  distinguish  Rrecn  from 
Its  oomplemeniiuy  color*  red, 


■ft 


wHiniER; 


&nf 


i  of 


jw  England's 


11  •    h\      Worth    During   Vj;r!ou* 
Jot  anions 


Rerol-  tions  of  an  Old  and  Valued 
Friend. 


127 

mediately  followed  astonished  nobody  as  much 
»<;  tls€  poet  hiinsolf;  but  hecradaally  reconciled 
himself  to  them  and  began  to  put  money  in  his 
p  .  .  He  realized,  however,  no  very  great  sum 
ir  n  Ins  productions  before  the  advent  of 
Hound,"  which  lie  himself  considered  a 
verv  in  'i  rent  bit  of  versification,  lis  sudden 
pov'nl  u  ity  boiuz  one  of  the  greatest  surprises  of 
4iMhfe.  ... 

"■-:it1»i  Brainerd.    who   made  him  a  visit 

,f       -  .ti   publication   of    TSnow-Houud." 

telle    Litis    storv:    "1    founu    bis    house   newly 

iHiii>;    :  mil  :mpr»jved.  wueretipon  I  said  tohim. 

•ji    .     ,.,  ■  i.  m  that   poetry    has   ceased    to  bo  a 

i  „     .,     me    market'    1  he  next  morning  Mr. 


Ii  s.v-:.'i  il.it  years  ago, when Whittier's 
wor:. .  ■'-...'  not  .-.«  popular  as  now.  ho  wag  walk- 
in.:  in- day  on  Co-nhlll  when  be  met  Mu/.zcy. 
[he  Usher  and  Pooksoilcr.  After  some  con- 
vex 'i  -n  ;  ont  poetry  and  or.i  thing  2nd 
an<  a.    :ev  pn.poied   to  pay  him  S500  for 

Ihf  copyright  of  his  productions  and  a  percr-n !• 
age  on  tii;  sales  Mr,  Whittier  i«s  vastly  as  1 
tonfsbed  He  tl.cugbtpill  and  bookinakimr  had 
eo-nhin  d  to  make  the  roan  crazy:  tut  Mnxzey 
Was  in  dead  earnest  and  at  last  Mr.  Whittier. 
wi!*i  ^  referred  feeling  of  oompas«»On  for  the 
demeuted  publisher,  consented  to  the  arrange- 
BWat,  Mozzey  brought  out  the  hitherto  ill- 
dressed  and  obscure  children  of  the  poet's 
brain,  which  he  picked  up  here  and  therein 
neat  ar  I  attractive  shape.    The  sales  which  itn- 


V  htttii  1  '*  answer  came.    It  was  in  the  winter, 

ami  as  lue  poet  went  up  to  the  tire  to  warn:  nis 
l>o,,.s  ii-psratory  to  putting  them  on.  he  said: 
■  Thee  will  have  to  excuse  me.  for  I  must  so 
dov.-)i  o  i',ie  office  of  the  Collector.'  Then,  with 
a  humorous  gi<*«in  in  his  eye,  he  added:  "Since 
•'Snow-Bound"  was  published  I  nave  risen  to 
the  titsnitv  of  an  income  tax.'  " 
■   .   • 

To  -.n  Englishman  who  lately  visited  him  Mr. 
Whittier  ^pressed  bis  surprise  that  his  guest 
should  know  so  much  of  his  poetry  by  heart. 
"  1  wonder,"  be  said,  "  thou  shouldst  burden  tby 
memory  with  all  thatrnyai*  It  is  not  well  to 
bare  too  much  of  it;  better  get  rid  of  it  as  soon 
•s  nossibio.  vs  by.  1  can't  remomber  any  01  it  I 
one*  went  to  hear  a  wonderful  orator,  and 
lie  wound  no  his  speech  with  *  poetical  quota- 
tion, and  i  clapped  witb  all  dot  might.  Some 
one  touched  me  on  the  shoulaer  and  said.  'Do 
you  know  who  wrote  that?'  f  said  "No,  I 
don't,  but  it's  good.*  It  seems  I  had  wr  ttcn  it 
myself,  fhe  fault  Is.  I  have  written  tar  .too 
much.  I  wish  half  of  It  was  in  the  Ked  Sea." 
•   •   • 

Mr.  Whittier  when  interviewed  some  time  xso 
as  to  In*  (avorito  worm,  replied:  "On. really.  1 
have  none.  Much  th it  I  have  written  I  wisU 
was  as  deep  iu  the  Rtd  Sea  as  Pharaoh's  chariot 
wneels.  Much  of  the  bread  cast  on  the  waters 
I  wish  hau  never  returned.  It  is  not  fair  to  re- 
vive writings  composed  in  the  shadow  ci  condi- 
tions that  make  every  acceptaule  work  lmros- 
sible.  In  my  early  life  I  was  not  favored  with 
■rood  opportunities.  Limited  chances  (or  educa- 
tion and  a  lack  of  books  always  stood  in 
my  way.  V*»  ben  I  began  to  write  I  had 
seeu  notbina*,  and  virtually  knew  nothing 
of  the  world.  Ot  course.  Ihun  wrttleu  then 
could  not  be  worth  muco.  In  my  father's 
house  there  were  not  a  dozen  books,  and  they 
were  of  a  severe  type.  The  only  one  that  ap- 
proached poetry  was  a  rbymed  history  of  King 
David,  written  or  *  contemporary  of  George 
Fox,  the  «.'.- alter.  There  wa*  one  poor  novel  in 
the  familv.  It  belonged  to  an  aunt  This  I 
secured  one  day.  bat  when  I  had  read  it  about 
ball  through  1  was  discovered  and  it  was  taken 
away  from  me." 

... 

Mr.  Whittier.  in  speaking  Of  Longfellow's 
Works  a  few  years  ago.  satd :  "  'Evangeline'  is 
a  favorite  with  me.  1  think  it  is  one  of  the 
most  beautiful  or  poems.  Longfellow  had  au 
easy  hie  and  superior  advantages  of  association 
ana  education,  and  so  did  Emerson,  it  was 
Widely  different  with  me.  and  1  am  very  thank- 
ful for  tne  km  1  esteem  that  people  have  given 
fv  wtitiugs.  Before  '  Evangeline '  was  written 
had  hunted  up  the  history  of  the  ban- 
ishment of  the  Acadian*,  and  had  intended  to 
write  upon  it  myself,  but  I  put  it  off.  and  Haw- 
thorne got  bold  of  the  story  and  gave  U  to  Long 
fellow.  1  am  very  glad  he  did.  for  he  was  just 
the  one  to  write  it.  If  1  had  attempted  it  I 
Should  have  sooiled  tbe  artistic  effect  of  the 
poem  by  my  indignation  at  the  treatment  of 
the  exiles  by  the  Colonial  Govern  m  en  t.  who 
had  a  very  hard  lot  after  coming  to  this  coun- 
try. Families  were  separated  and  scattered' 
about,  only  a  few  ot  them  oelng  permitted  to  re- 
main in  any  given  locality.  Tue  children  were 
bound  out  to  the  families  iu  the  localities  in 
which  they  restded.  and  I  wrote  a  poem  npon 
finding  In  the  records  of  Haverhill  tbe  indenture 
that  hound  an  Acadian  girl  as  a  servant  in  one 
of  tbe  families  of  that  neighborhood.  Gath- 
ering the  story  of  her  deatn  I  wrote  'Mar- 
guerite* ... 

Once  in  Concord.  N.  H.,  with  the  Englfsh 
Abolitionist  Armstrong,  he  narrowly  escaped 
rouzh  treatment  by  a  mob.  Armstrong  and  he 
had  been  to  an  Abolitionist  meeting  at 
Plymouth,  N.  IL.  aud  were  to  remain  ore; 
nigtit  at  tue  house  of  one  of  Whittier's  friend* 
iu  Concord.  Early  In  the  evening  the  mob 
took  possession  01  the  grounds  about  the  house 
and  deti'^'ided  the  Abolitionists  within.  After 
thrr  |.p .1   made  considerable   disturiiauce  and 


were  organizing  lor  a  concentrated  movement 
upon  the  bouse,  a  horse  aud  buggv  ban  been 
quietly  prepared  for  flight  in  the  barn,  aud 
Armstrong  and  Mx.  V\  nutter,  descending  by  a 
bsck  exit.  were  hustled  into  the 
buggy  and  driven  '  hurriedly  away, 
pursued  for  some  distance  by  the  mob. 
Xbev  made  no  stop  on  the  way  back  to  Mas- 
sachusetts until  they  had  put  distance  enough 
between  them  and  their  enemies  to  insure 
saf'-tv  .Some  years  after  the  Concord  episode 
be  was  walking  the  street,  in  Portland.  Me.. 
when  a  man,  aftsr  eyeing  him  curiously  for 
some  tun--.,  hnal.y  stepped  uo  and  asked:  "Is 
not  this  Mr.  Wbittier?"  The  poet  admitted  his 
identity,  when  the  man  replied:  "I  am  some' 
what  asnamei  to  admit  it.  but  4  was  one  of  tne 
mem  here  of  that  Concord  mob  which  was  so 
tdesirous  of  meeting  you  at  close  quarters  some 
Tear*  ago."  "And  what  would  tho  mob  have 
done  ii  it  had  »ncce.-ded  iu  getting  possession  of 
n» '."  "  Probably  your  complexion  would  have 
been  changed  considerably."  replied  the  ex- 
tnobber.  rather  sheepishly.  A  coat  ot  tar  and 
feathers  was  evidently  intended. 

•  •  « 
ijar  V<t  Editor  of  The  Boston  Jottrnal: 
1  May  I  call  yoor  attention  to  some  errors  in 
your  sketch  of  John  G.  Whittier.  in  the  second 
jcotumn  it  is  stated  that  "In  1840  Mr  U'ulttter 
dame  to  live  in  a  plain,  white,  old-fashioned 
house,  which  he  ha  1  purchased  in  the  outskirts 
of  Arnesuury,  and  nere  he  lived  for  nearly  40 
years,  having  as  his  sole  companion,  until  her 
death  in  lbtfi.  bis  last  surviving  sister.  Eliza- 
beth." 

Having  bean  personally  acquainted  with  the 
family,  1  speak  from  my  own  knowledge  when 
1  say  that  his  mother  kenl  bouatf  for  him  until 
her  death  iu  1857.  as  stated  0.1  your  first  page, 
aud  theuhissister  Elizabeth,  who  had  lived  with 
them  all  the  time.  tooK  tier  mother's  place  uuiil 
she  died  In  1804.  Hut  Elizabeth  was  not  Ins 
only  surviving  sister,  as  Ids  oldest  sister, 
Mrs.  Caldwell,  did  not  die  until  Jan. 
T.  1881  « (as  statvid  on  your  first  page;. 
Sixteen  years  after  Elizabeth.  But  Mrs.  U 
was  not  a  member  of  t  >r.  family,  but  lived  aoont 
one  hundred  yar.ls  frou'  iter  urocbor.  I  think  it 
is  scarcely  correc*.  to  .s^enk  of  the  house  as  in 
the  outskirts  ot  Arnesuury.  as  ii  is  pretty  near 
the  ("litre  uf  the  village:  and  although  after 
the  uurriajreor  his  niece  (Mm.  Pickaru),  who 
kept  house  lor  ;  iui  .Wter  tne  death  of  his  sister, 
he  ma',f  <"  ■-.*!>,••  iii-riits  to  spend  a  l*r<e  part  of 
his  lilhe  111  JaiiTert,  he  still  retained  his  home 
fn  Amesbury.  and  ns  he  himseil  told  ma  wueii  I 
v|<itf-d  him  there  last  year  he  spent  about  one- 
third  ol  !.is  time  there,  tleckoniug  irom  ia+0 
that  would  make  hU  residence  iu  Ameiuury.  at 
least  partially.  5"J  years.  »  1 

Ailow  me  t-j  add  tha:  your  description  of  hir 
Hi  rary.  with  its  appurtenances,  it  very  ciiarsc- 
teristic,  with  t;.e  exctfbtton  that  his  writing  ta-' 
bi«  was  in  the  Centre  of  the  room,  just  opposit* 
th:  open  fireplace,  lhe  ooor.  was  a  methodical 
man.  not  given  to  change,  and  When  1  was  iut 
tbe  lir-rary  last  year  it  lookc  .  just  as  it  ns-.-d  t* 
jco*  when   1  was  *  iresiurtut  caller  th^rc  thirty^ 

iveu  years  ago.  and  1  told  him  so.    .       Writ, 


WHITTIER    PERSONALITIES. 

His  Ho  me- Seeping  Ways— The  6tory  of 
Hi3  Last  Poem— Avoiding  Pilgrrlms-Hla 
Itelaticni  "With  HIb  Publlshore.] 

Mr.  WUuiar  was  never  a  traveller.  He  had 
not  Veen  out  of  New  Eucland  for  many  years. 
His  Journeys  tr>  Washington  sort  to  Peansyl- 
vania  were  his  longest  one^.  Possibly  he  was 
our  mlr  Ameri<  in  man  of  letters— certainly 
the  only  cue  of  ihe  first  rank— who  nev«r  wont 
to  Europe. 

Hampton  Falls  N.  H  ,  wrerebe  die.)  is  «■••.'.- 
sever  miles  'ror.-.  Arncsbury.  Mass.,  bis  "."/in* 
home."  He  u.t  said  that  ho  should  like  *"  be 
in  Florida  or  California  for  awic-ter.  but  the 
soing  appalled  him.  and  the  bright  open  fire  in 
bis  library  at  Oak  Knoll  has  tiven  him  con- 
densed .sunshine  for  his  recent  winters  of  grow- 
ing infirmity. 

There  is  an  interesting  little  story  in  connec 
tion  with  his  last  poem.  'To  OMver  Wendell 
Holmes."  which  appears  In  the  September  Af 


lantic  Monthly.  It  was  copied  for  him  and 
sent  to  Houghton,  Mifliin  &  Co.,  and  in  the 
copying  «  stanza  was  left  out.  Kooody  will  find 
it  easy  to  guess  where  the  omitted  sim/a  ought 
to  come  iu  the  poem  as  it  appears  in  the  current 
Atlantic,  But  when  Mr.  Whittier  got  the  proof 
he  wrote  in  strenuous  haste  to  inquire  for  the 
missing  stanza.  It  was  too  iato  then;  the 
plates  of  the  Atlantic  had  gone  to  press  with- 
out it  '  His  readers  will  have  this 
stanza  in  the  volume  of  his  poems,  "At  Snn- 
down,"  which  will  be  out  in  November. 

St.  Nicholas  has  a  poem  by  Whittier  which 
will  appear  in  the  November  number  (the  rlr„. 
number  of  that  magazine's  year),  and  the  com- 
plete book  will  follow.  The  letter  Mr.  Whittier 
wrote  about  the  missing  stanza  is  tiie  last  one 
received  by  his  publishers.  It  is  a  longtime 
since  he  was  in  Boston,  ana  his  last  visit  to 
Mr  Garrison  in  his  office  at  Houghton.  Mif- 
flin &  Company's  was  not  a  recent  one.  Th« 
autograph  copy  of  the  birthday  poem  that  went 
to  Dr.  Holmes  contained,  of  course,  the  stanza 
the  copvist  had  left  out. 

Mr.  Whittier's  relations  with  his  publishers 
were  always  of  a  happy  sort  He  made  a  mod- 
•st  fortune  from  his  poetry,  and  his  income 
might  be  skid  to  be,  on  an  average  about  that  of 
a  college  professor.  He  was  most  generous  to 
tr's  family,  liberal  in  subscription  to  good 
causey  and  no  man,  was  ever  more  appealed  to 
from  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  enthusiasts,  as 
well  as  beggars  outright,  with  no  reason  for 
asking  except  the  goodn»ss  of  his  heart. 

Several  years  ago  he  burned  a  great  quantity 
of  material— letters,  etc.— which  would  be  of 
priceless  value  to  his  biographer,  whoever  that 
may  bo.  Some  one  has  asked,  "Why  not  Miss 
Lucy  Larcom?"  She  was  certainly  very  near 
to  biro  iu  understanding,  affection  and  long 
frieadshfo.  and  krrsw  him  thoroughly  and  well. 
The  letters  he  destroyed  wont  Into  tho  flames 
at  a  time  when  several  volumes  of  "Life 
and  Letters"  of  eminent  men  had  laid  bare  to 
public  criticism  passing  notions,  evanescent 
opinions  and  sacred  secrets  of  experience.  Mr. 
Whittier  had  no  wish  to  risk  such  ill-treatment 
from  an  injudicious  biographer.  It  Is  said  that 
he  has  since  repented  of  his  holocaust  of  mate- 
rial. At  alt  events  there  is  a  great  fund  of 
living  loving  knowledge  concerning  his  simple, 
democratic,  beautiful  life  readily  accessible. 

The  story  has  been  told  before  of  a  visitor  to 
Oak  Knoll  once  praising  "Hannah  Binding 
Shoes"  to  Mr.  Whittier,  with  the  comment  that 
the  speaker  "always  liked  that  best  of  your 
poems  Mr.  Whittier."  With  a  sparkle  of  merri- 
ment in  those  keen  dark  eyes  (he  was  color- 
blind by  the  way),  he  said  he  admired  that 
poem  very  much  himself.  After  exhibiting 
an  amount  of  interest  in  the  poem  surprising 
to  the  visitor  who  had  heard  that  Whittier  was 
modest  about  his  poetry,  the  poet  called  in  Miss 
Lucy  Larcom,  who  chanced  to  be  a  visitor  in 
the  bouse,  and  said  "Thee  will  like  to  meet  the 
author  of  "Hannah  Binding  Shoes,'  "  and  lutro- 
daced  herl 

All  the  world  loves  a  poet  all  the  world  of 
reading  people,  at  least,  and  the  people  who 
made  pilgrimages  from  far  and  near  to  see 
Whittier  were  countless.  Of  late  Tears  he  has 
not"  been  able  to  see  many  of  them,  aad  it  has 
taxed  the  Ingenuity  of  his -friends  at  Oak  Knoll 
and  at  Amesbnry  to  keep  them  away  without 
hurting  their  feelings.  Until  a  few  years  ago 
he  welcomed  them  all",~but  a  chief  reason 
that  he  went  seven  miles  from  home 
this  summer  was  to  be  at  a  place  where  he 
could  "avoid  pilgrims,"  to  use  his  own  phrase. 
He  asked  his  life-long  friend.  Miss  Gove,  ono 
day  after  meeting,  "Abby,  has  thee  a  spare 
room  up  at  thy  house?"  And  of  course  she  was 
happy  to  welcome  him.  He  bad  said  wlthia  a 
moo  i,h  that  this  was  the  most  restful  summer  he 
had  spent  in  forty  years.  They  went  across  to 
the  inn  for  their  meals,  except  when  Mr. 
Whittier  was  feeling  ill.  then  they  used  the 
little  dining-room  in  the  house. 


128 

There  was  a  little  balcony  from  Mr.  Whittier's 
room  where  he  could  look  off  to  sea.  The  sta- 
tion agent  at  Hampton  yesterday  pointed  out  to 
a  visitor  from  Boston  the  places  in  sight  con- 
nected with  several  of  Whittier's  poems. 

"Yonder  are  the  "River-mouth  Rocks,'  and 
that  house  there  is  the  one  where  'Goody  Cole* 
lived.  'The  Tent  on  the  Beach'  was  over  on 
Salisbury  Beach,  and  [how  thoroughly  of  New 
England  this!]  though  I've  lived  here  within 
sight  of  it  for  fifty  years,  I've  never  yet  been 
over  to  the  beach." 

It  is  particularly  broad  and  lovely  at  Hamp- 
ton Falls,  and  there  'are  two  superb  elms  rear 


the  house  where  the  poet  died.  And  on  tho 
way  down  from  Boston  you  see.  in  going,  the 
"meadows  green  and  low,"  and  glimpses  where 
a  "river  comes  winding  down  from  salt-sea 
meadows  and  uplands  brown."  It  is  a  journey 
through  Whittier's  own  country : 

"And  fair  are  the  sunny  Isles  in  view 
East  of  the  grisly  Head  of  the  Boar, 
And  Agamenticus  lifts  its  blue 

Disk  of  a  oloud  the  woodlands  o'er;  | 
And  southerly,  when  the  tide  is  down, 
'Twixt  white  sea-waves  and  sand-hills  brown. 
The  beach-birds  dance  and  the  gray  gulls  wheel 
Over  a  floor  of  burnished  steel." 


WHITTIER  AND  HIS  VERSE. 

^i^^~  Bt  8.  H.  That**    ff.  V*** 

IF  it  be  true  that  "all  great  joys  are  serious,"  surely 
Whittier  took  deep  draughts  from  these,  and  felt 
tho  exaltation  from  their  springs  ;  for  Whittier,  of  all  of 
our  own  poets,  in  the  gift  of  pure  spiritual  absorption 
early  touched  the  hem  and  felt  the  virtue. 

With  a  father  wrought  upon  by  the  authority  and 
solemnity  of  religious  teaching,  and  with  a  mother  de- 
vout and  zealous  in  her  stern  faith,  he  caught  their 
mantle  and  breathed  their  spirit  Sympathy  we  may 
know  in  our  commonest  life ;  the  rough  man's  speech 
breathes  it.  the  humanitarian  will  send  it  with  his  gifts ; 
but  Whittier's  sympathy  is  of  the  sacred  sort,  weighed 
down  yet  winged  with  the  consecrated  songs  of  a  con- 
secrated life. 

The  lonely  youth  in  the  wooded  vale  of  Haverhill 
took  on  some  of  the  shadow  of  its  loneliness.  Whittier 
loved  the  wildness  of  nature,  as  did  Wordsworth  and 
Bryant,  but  he  never  caught  distinctively  the  color  or  the 
tone  of  either.  Tho  limited  culture  of  his  earlier  life 
held  him  to  tne  more  unstudied  thoughts  and  influences 
that  worked  through  him  as  he  worked,  like  "a  well  of 
water  springing  into  life."  Almost  without  books,  re- 
pressed by  a  careful  father,  he  stole  moments,  as  if  of 
gold,  in  which  to  con  the  wild  songs  of  Burns  from  a 
volume  that  happy  chance  sent  him.  On  the  grass,  at 
noontide,  by  the  shadow  of  the  stone  fence  which  he 
himself  was  building  on  his  father's  farm,  he  eagerly 
caught  the  inspiration,  and  felt  its  stimulus  gathering 
and  beating  in  his  life.  The  first  paper  that  came  to 
him  with  one  of  his  own  poems  in  its  "  poet's  corner  " 
dazed  him,  thrilled  him ,  elated  his  heart ;  and  when, 
later,  after  successive  publications,  the  editor,  William 
Lloyd  Garrison,  struck  by  the  promising  character  of  his 
unknown  contributor,  searched  him  out  and/visited  him 
at  his  home,  the  fire  burned  forth  that  has  never  since 
been  quenched. 

Happily  in  vain,  his  rigorous  parent  plead  with  him 
and  with  the  editor  that  such  notions  would  undo  him 
for  useful  work  :  his  power,  his  genius,  had  discovered 
itself  ;  henceforth  nothing  could  change  his  destiny. 

It  is  plain  that  Whittier's  creations  are  of  the  inevi- 
table sort ;  he  was  born  a  poet,  not  made  such  ;  what- 
ever of  after  culture  and  training  came  to  him,  the 
flower  was  in  the  bud  that  was  to  blossom  for  the  world. 
I  will  not  trace  his  personal  life  further,  save  to  mark 
the  simplicity  and  dignity  which  its  discipline  imparted. 
Whittier,  cherishing  his  newly  born  love — nay,  not 
newly  born,  but  newly  baptized  of  hope — sang,  like  the 
immortal  Bums,  at  his  work,  keeping  time  in  sympho- 
nious  thought  with  the  reaping  and  the  threshing. 

What,  then,  is  the  secret  of  his  music  T  He  had.  in  a 
marked  degree,  the  "  consecration  and  the  poet's  dream ;" 


i"8 

O     © 

S  &►» 

■g-a 

■3    ? 


«8   «J"tf 

u  s  a 

o  ,q   a 

a  -£ 

3 


« 


CS    o 

-  -9 

©     D. 

s  e 

C  ft 

»  - 

.a  «o 
o 

il 

S.9 


a    ej 
a  a 

'£* 
2  c 


-3  O 

•—     ©   — 


£•2  2 
I  9  * 

s  a  ^ 

•,       to 
S  «-  a 

u   £  " 

•"So 

g  §  & 

o  0  • 

H       3 

***  ©  o 


©     ©     ©   JS     © 

•o  -a  o  "5)ja 

.  **  "S    3   "* 

£»S  ►  8  S 

»   »  S  2   a 
o"S  III 


a  3 
8  _ 


■>  OS 

■3  a  2-      3 

_  *»  *a  O" 
►,13   2   5   « 

«i        ©  J- 
S  o.a 


°  r* 


•s  a3 


a   o 

a? 

B  © 

•3    u 

1    A 

A    © 


I- 


s 

<s 
o  » 

Sib 

"3 


a 

es 

t>,  s  » 

©5  JS 


written  scroll  like  an  incense,  discovering  the  divine  law 
in  the  natural  order.  From  such  a  fountain,  springing 
from  the  heights,  what  testa  would  we  bring  to  his  body 
of  verse  ? 

As  we  have  said,  he  is  an  artist,  but  of  no  school. 
Whittier's  peculiar  meter  and  rhythm  have  become  fa- 
mous, and  he  has  the  gift  of  concealing  his  art  ;  an  innate 
modesty  ran*  through  all  of  his  verse  as  it  doss  through 
hit  life.  It  is  the  fault  of  the  imitator,  the  society  versi- 
fler,  that  we  see  through  ail  a  labored  design ;  the  skel- 
eton is  there ;  he  is  studied,  overnice.  Who  reads  Swin- 
burne but  feels  satiated  with  the  affectations  of  his  Verse  t 
fie  subordinates  matter  to  manner  to  the  point  of  attenua- 
tion ;  liquid  and  musical  he  is,  but  he  is  so  overcharged 
with  alliterations,  and  his  methods  constitute  so  chiefly 
his  design,  that  the  effect  of  his  art  is  sometimes  very 
meretricious.  Not  that  we  crave  slovenly  written  verse, 
but,  above  all,  and  first  of  all,  we  ask  for  real  beauty, 
not  the  toilet's  ait.  Now,  if  I  read  Whittier  aright, 
while  he  feeds  the  heart,  his  finish  is  beautifully  adapted 
to  his  theme  and  treatment ;  there  is  in  him  a  certain 
harmony  that  makes  for  strength,  and  there  is,  fre- 
quently, in  his  verse,  a  unique  beauty  of  analogy  that 
in  his  more  spiritual  themes  is  often  sublime  in  its  deep, 
sympathetic  aptness.  Take  a  stanza  from  his  poem 
entitled  "  A  Friend's  Burial"  She  is  laid  to  rest  within 
sight  and  sound  of  the  sea.  How  fittingly  it  illustrates 
this  comment : 

"  Sing-  softly,  spring  bird,  for  her  sake ; 
And  thou,  not  distant  sea; 
Lapse  lightly,  as  If  Jesus  spake, 
And  thou  wert  Galilee."  , 

This  is  one  of  his  many  famous  touches.  As  an  in- 
terpreter of  the  moral  law  and  life,  another  stanza  from 
the  same  poem,  quite  aa  famous,  reveals  his  largeness  of 
faith: 

"  From  scheme  and  creed  the  light  goes  out, 
The  saintly  fact  survives. 
The  blessed  Master  none  can  doubt, 
BeTealed  in  holy  lives." 

His  simplicity,  his  manner,  and  his  trend  of  thought 
conspire  alike  to  elevate  and  distinguish  his  poetry.  We 
may  well  wonder  at  the  marriage  of  ideas  and  treatment 
in  one  so  comparatively  unlettered  ;  and,  knowing  the 
intimacy  that,  through  long  years  of  literary  work, 
existed  between  Whittier,  Emerson,  Longfellow,  and 
Hawthorne,  such  a  contrast  in  genius  and  training 
leaves  us  to  marvel  at  the  tenacity  with  which  he  held, 
and  holds,  his  own  individuality  of  taste  and  execution. 
In  the  matter  of  culture,  he  tells  us  that  he  felt  keenly 
his  own  inferiority ;  this,  with  him,  was  not  false 
modesty,  it  was  real  feeling.  A  master  in  the  lore  of 
art  and  tradition  presided  over  the  quartet  in  Longfel- 
low ;  the  philosophical  spirit  and  temper  enriched 
their  intercourse  through  the  sage  of  Concord ;  the 
weird  imagination,,  of  Hawthorne  played  through  their 
talks  with  a  magician's  skill ;  while  the  still,  grave 
nature  of  Whittier  could  not  have  failed  to  absorb 
much  that  widely  contrasted  with  his  own.  If  he 
had  been  a  nice  Imitator,  what  on  opportunity  these 
years  would  have  afforded  him !  but,  artist  aa  he 
was,  he  felt  that  his  strength  lay  in  his  own  indi- 
viduality. And,  conscientious  as  he  was,  he  must 
write,  himself,  his  own  thought  and  feeling,  in  the 
songs  of  his  life  ;  he  would  not  borrow  color  or  inspira- 
tion ;  they  must  evolve  from  his  own  genius  and  spirit, 
and  reflect  an  inner  creation.  Whittier,  unlike  others 
of  his  contemporaries,  did  not  go  far  for  his  subjects.  In 
his  tales,  he   is  the  poet  of  New  England's  lore  and 


129 
traditions  ;  they  lay  in  his  heart ;  they  were  his  first  love. 
His  pictures  are  conscientiously  native  to  the  New  Eng- 
land manner  and  spirit.  Far  removed  from  Puritanism  aa 
he  was.  he  yet  could  go  behind  the  crust  of  its  stern 
thought,  and,  with  large  charity  take  the  narrow  gauge 
of  its  isolated,  contracted,  yet  elevated  faith.  We  can 
imagine  what  comments  Taine  might  indulge  in  if  he 
were  to  make  a  6tudy  of  our  Quaker  poet  One  who 
could  scarcely  tolerate  the  high  and  serious  grandeur  of 
such  a  noble  masterpiece  as  Tennyson's  "  In  Memori 
am"  would  not  dwell  happily  on  the  spiritualizaUona 
which  characterize  much  of  Whittier's  meditative  verse. 
Whittier  has  the  English  moral  reverence  and  stamina 
which  so  baffles  the  French  mind  ;  his  protests  against 
wrong  are  charged  with  almost  a  prophet's  cry ;  he  la 
the  latter-day  Isaiah,  but  with  the  faith  ineffable,  that, 
like  a  nimbus,  crowns  the  song  of  David.  In  this  day 
of  so  much  elaborate  and  soulless  verse,  such  a  voice  as 
Whittier's  sounds  as  from  the  heights.  As  the  Christian's 
watch-tower  i«.  and  ever  must  be,  faith,  so  all  men 
aspiring  and  toiling  upward  toward  their  hope  sad 
ambition  must  have  faith — faith  in  their  own  destiny,, 
and  in  all  of  the  processes  that  tend  to  it ;  faith  that 
true  work  is  crowned  at  last .  that  longing  and  con- 
stancy have  a  meaning  and  a  fulfillment ;  that  all  of  the 
prayers  and  pleadings  of  truth,  in  art.  aa  in  life,  point 
to  the  benediction :  "  Well  done  1"  This  faith,  insepa- 
rable from  nobleness,  broods  over  the  spirit  of  Whittier, 
and  gives  to  his  work  and  days  a  serene  atmosphere.  A 
man's  poetry  will,  taken  as  a  whole,  express  the  ideal  of 
the  man,  if  not  the  real  man  himself.  The  restless,  in- 
tense, turbulent  nature  of  Byron  is  articulated  with 
almost  painful  distinctness  in  his  body  of  verse.  The 
quite  gentleness  of  Wordsworth,  his  interior  serenity  of 
feeling,  not  conspicuously  evident,  but  deep,  is  the 
source  from  which  flows  his  ri7cr  of  song. 

So,  like  these,  Whittier  lives  and  breathes  in  the 
music  which  he  makes.  Whatever  the  merit  of  his 
verse,  great  or  slight,  it  always  carries  with  it  e  pure 
sweet  flow  of  harmonious  beauty,  as  if  his  own  spirit 
were  on  the  surest  terms  with  the  truth  which  he  would 
convey.  Keats,  in  his  "  Ok  to  a  Grecian  Urn,"  makes 
that  immortal  climax— 

"  Beauty  Is  truth,  truth  beauty :  that  Is  all 
Ye  know  on  earth,  and  all  ye  need  to  know." 

This  he  wrote  in  meditating  on  the  grace  and  form  of 
ancient  Grecian  sculpture.  When  we  read  exalted  and 
pure  poetry,  do  we  not  feel  iu  a  high  sense  the  inex- 
pressible charm  that  springs  from  this  union  of  beauty 
and  truth  ?  Grecian  art  revealed  this  to  Keats  :  it  was  a 
sentient  ideal  with  him.  Music  of  a  high  order  carries 
the  same  lesson  to  the  ear  ;  and  noble  poetry,  which  sur- 
passes in  nobleness  all  other  order  of  creation  in  litera- 
ture, conveys  the  same  divine  revelation  to  the  mind 
and  soul  of  man.  A  discord  between  the  poet's  environ- 
ment and  his  poetic  impulse,  as  in  Byron's  life,  mars 
this  unity  necessary  to  the  realization  of  Keats's  thought. 
However  great  a  genius,  discord  between  the  spirit  and 
the  career  of  a  poet  will  run  through  his  music,  and 
vex  its  vibration,  as  surely  as  defective  art  will  mar  its 
forms.  That  which  distinguishes  genius  from  mere 
intellectual  greatness  is  this  iul>orn  gift  of  harmony — in 
some  arts  we  call  it  proportion,  touch,  expression  ;  but 
in  music  and  poetry  we  feel  that  it  is  more  a  soul  qual- 
ity than  in  any  creation  of  form  or  color.  To  those,  if 
any,  who  may  hold  Whittier's  work  in  slight  esteem,  I 
submit  that  he  possesses  this  nameless  something,  which 
Carlylc  would  call  the  worshipful  ia  him,  something 
which  earth  neither  gives  nor  takes,  which  raises  him 


lj«J 


^    3 


s  a 

Is 

§3 


J  8 

te  a 

a  2 

-"  Q. 

.3  a 

•a  2 


z>  > 

1  i 
Is  g 


£  *  83 

~  9    .  3 

8  «  -3  a 

at  -i 

■J    «   -      V 

»:*    »  2 
^a   a" 

S  [t-3 

*"  -  2  3 

a  &  ft3 

3  _,  -a    y 

•^     *     «    — 

1?  sz  "3  .£ 
*5  -°  ?»~  '£ 

c~  SS    a 

a     »-     oJ     3 


M  i,  "O 

aua 

£  *  _ 

a        ® 

J  "  3 
^  rj  j 


-3  T3 

at    a) 


*2 


3? 
I. 

>*:3 

o  o  8 

<  *  - 

S  sf  6 
flj 

3  9-3 


<a   s 

M 

a  » 

Hi 

•-   a    a 

b  -2  a 

g  3  * 

"•2  2 

U  04) 

s  o 


.S   a  * 

1-2  § 

?  -  J 

"   £  a 

9  v 


& 


"footprints  oa  tb«  land*  of  time.** 

"The  hooded  clouds,  like  friars, 
Tall  their  bead*  In  drops  of  rain." 

■*  Into  each  Ufa  some  rain,  ma»t  fail." 

"And  the  cares  that  Infest  the  Jay 
■hail  foM  their  tents  like  the  Arabs, 
And  aa  silently  steal  away." 

**  She  floats  upon  the  river  of  his  thought  ** 

"  The  lea  rea  of  memory  seem  to  make 
A  mournful  rustling  In  the  dark." 

These  are  Longfellow's  ;  uniquely,  unmistakably  his. 
We  know  him  by  his  touches  of  fancy  even  when  we 
cannot  place  the  text.  Wliitlier  was  far  removed  from 
this  fanciful  imagery  ;  his  gift  had  not  (his  airy,  magical 
qmdity  ;  it  rather  weighed  and  deepened  than  winged  his 
Terse.  Some  passages  that  I  have  quoted  exemplify 
this  ,  others  might  be  cited  ;  a  strikingly  beautiful  one 
occurs  m  the  "  Battle  Autumn  of  1862,"  where  he  would 
express  the  beneficence  of  Nature  : 

"  She  sees  with  clearer  eyes  than  ours 
The  good  of  suffei  inif  born, 
The  hearts  that  blossom  like  her  flowers, 
And  ripen  like  her  corn." 

Without  p3i3e3*in£  any  mirked  dramatic  quality, 
Whittier's  imagination  is  at  times  boldly  realistic,  and 
presents  to  us  vivid  scenes  where  action  is  strong  and 
passionate ;  he  is  picturesquely  graphic  in  description, 
and  at  times  appeals  to  our  livelier  emotions  with  marked 
effect.  His  short  poem,  "  What  the  Birds  Say,"  is  rich 
with  weird  imagery.  His  •■  Skipper  Ireson's  Hide"  has 
the  genuine  Browning  accent  for  nervous,  precipitate 
action;  while  "Barbara  Freitchie"  is  of  a  heroic  cast 
that  challenges  an  exalted  yet  instant  enthusiasm. 
With  all  of  his  granduess  of  nature,  "Wliitlier  manifests 
in  a  variety  of  poems,  distributed  over  a  wide  rango  of 
years,  a  steady  glow  of  fervor,  that  quality  which  is 
inevitable  in  the  atmosphere  of  the  poet's  inspiring 
thought,  like  the  electric  current,  lightening  with  the 
object  and  occasion  ;  his  war  lyrics  are  illuminated  by 
it,  while  fn  his  more  ideal,  his  commemorative,  and  his 
spiritual  creations  alike,  it  glows  with  a  pure,  almost 
holy  emotion  ;  it  is  a  part  of  himself  ;  like  all  that  Whit- 
tier  expresses,  'lis  the  heart  of  hirn. 

As  contrasted  with  Emerson,  Whiltier  does  not  work 
in  as  abstract  or  sublimated  a  realm,  but  is  more  human; 
interprets  life,  with  its  rauge  of  profound  feeling,  with 
more  intimate  fidelity.  His  pathos  possesses  virility  and 
dignity ;  it  effectually  discards  mere  sentimentality.  Ue 
indulges  in  no  conceits  by  which  to  catch  the  coarser  ear. 
His  work  is  unblemished  by  those  obvious  frailties  of 
speech  which  often  mar  and  taint  the  work  of  greater 
poets,  as  painters  sometimes  ingeniously  contrive  to 
Tidate  the  general  effect  of  a  fine  perspective  by  incon- 
gruities in  the  foreground.  With  Whiltier  there  are  no 
degrading  surprises,  no  stoopings  to  conquer.  His  im- 
agination exalts  his  theme ;  he  is  serene  in  the  faith  that 
the  higher  law  rules  in  art  as  in  morals.  He  docs  not 
itch  for  fame.  His  true  native  modesty  is  an  adequate 
shield  against  sensationalism  in  style  or  subject. 

Whiltier  has  written  too  much,  it  is  true.  So  did 
Chancer,  so  did  Spenser,  and  even  Shakcreare,  in  their 
time.  So  have  all  of  the  modern  poets,  from  Scott  to 
Tennyson;  the  latter,  perhaps,  less  than  most.  Masters 
in  all  arts  have  left  their  remnants.  Raphael  and  Mich- 
ael Ang»lo  have  left  unworthy  relics  of  their  art.  We 
measure  a  poet  by  his  mast  envoi  k,  not  his  inferior — 
his  power  is  equal  to  his  best.  I  am  not  unmindful  that 
Whittier,  for  the  time,  seems  overshadowed  by  con- 
temporaries.    Such  work  as  his  is  not  bold  or  striking  ; 


130 

it  dors  not  assert  itself  in  the  popular  impulse.  He  is  the 
George  Herbert  of  our  choir,  but  as  far  advanced  beyond 
him  as  the  nineteenth  century  is  beyond  the  seventeenth. 
His  felicities  are  of  the  searching  sort.  Serious  and 
grave  with  all,  he  i9  neither  metaphysical  or  artful. 
Light  humor  is  wanting.  For  passionate  appeal,  for 
intense  subjectiveness,  for  the  sensuous  or  sensual  ap- 
petizing, the  world  craves  the  school  of  a  Byron  ;  for  a 
call  to  pelf-renunciation  and  soul  service,  the  world, 
though  not  always  knowing  it,  needs  a  Whittier.  He 
is  a  benign  light  that  never  dazzles.  Stimulate  the 
popular  sense  with  the  pageantry  of  wealth,  make  men 
selfish,  proud,  and  Christlcss,  and  the  poetry  of  Whiltier 
will  languish.  Stir  the  conscience,  quicken  thought  and 
emolion,  awaken  the  moral  and  ideal,  and  Whittier's 
voice  has  a  meaning  and  a  power. 

It  is  a  question,  I  imagine,  which  the  present  genera- 
tion of  critics  will  hardly  solve,  how  posterity  will  rank 
such  verse  as  Whittier's.  Not  only  is  the  class  of  sub- 
jects selected  significant  as  to  the  relative  qualities  of 
a  poet,  but  the  tone  and  atmosphere  as  well  in  which 
the  treatment  is  rendered.  I  have  studied  to  convey  a 
clear  idea  of  Whittier's  standard  in  relation  to  these. 
That  Whittier  has  selected  the  profounder  themes  bear- 
ing on  human  existence  is  eminently  true.  He  treats  of 
the  interior  phases  of  human  conduct,  not  the  superfi- 
cial or  conventional ;  he  dwells  on  the  value  of  rectitude 
and  faith,  and  shows  their  relation.  In  a  beautiful  and 
simple  way  he  speculates  on  the  divine  fruition  in  obe- 
dience to  the  higher  law.  He  is  free  from  the  wom-oul 
traditions  of  thought ;  he  is  catholic  and  progressive.  It 
appears  to  me  that  in  his  symbolic,  poetic  reasoning,  he 
leads  the  mind  reverently  away  from  human  limitations, 
and  fixes  it  on  the  transcendent,  the  immutable.  If, 
then,  the  interior  and  unseen  elements  of  Jile,  nobly 
treated,  constitute  an  enduring  basis  in  poetry,  some 
of  Whittier's  work,  at  least,  bears  the  seal  of  and  holds 
the  key  to  immortality. 

ftcGui*..      Lowell's  Love  of   Dante  Aif.i*,/ff*. 

We  quote  the  following  paragraphs  from  the  Eleventh 
Annual  Report  of  the  Dante  Society,  in  which  they  consti- 
tute the  report  proper,  filling  five  of  the  109  pages  of  the 
pamphlet : — 

The  past  year  has  been  a  memorable  one  for  the  Dante  Society 
The  favorable  reception  by  scholars  and  by  the  public  of  works 
published  during  the  year  by  members  of  the  Society — Mr.  Butler's 
annotated  translation  of  '  Hell,'  Dr.  Scartazzini's  '  Dante  Hand- 
buch,'  the  late  Mr.  Latham's  translation,  with  historical  notes,  of 
Dante's  Letters  (the  Dante  Prize  Essay  for  1890),  and  Mr.  Nor- 
ton's translation  of  the  '  Divine  Comedy ' — has  shown  with  what 
faithfulness  and  what  success  the  members  of  the  Society  are  pro- 
moting its  object,  '  the  encouragement  of  the  study  of  the  Life 
and  Works  of  Dante.' 

But  the  year  has  been  chiefly  and  darkly  memorable  for  the  So- 
ciety on  account  of  the  death  of  its  second  President,  Tames  Rus- 
sell Lowell,  who  succeeded  Mr.  Longfellow  in  that  office  in  1882. 
The  distinction  conferred  on  the  Society  by  its  first  two  Presidents 
[Longfellow  and  Lowell]  is  enduring,  and  the  example  afforded  by 
their  life  and  work  will  be  a  perpetual  stimulus  and  encourage- 
ment to  their  successors.  The  following  extract  is  from  the 
records  of  the  annual  meeting,  May  17,  1892. 

'  The  meeting  having  been  called  to  order,  [President]  Norton 
spoke  briefly  of  the  loss  which  the  Society  had  sustained  in  the  death 
of  its  President.  Mr.  Lowell  stood  first  among  the  interpreters  of 
Dante  to  the  English-speaking  race.  Alike  as  scholar  and  as  poet, 
by  long  study  and  by  sympathetic  insight,  he  had  become  one  of 
the  intimate  familiars  of  Dante.  He  had  applied  to  himself  in  re- 
lation to  Dante,  the  words  of  Dante  to  Virgil :  "  May  the  long  zeal 
and  the  great  love  avail  me  which  have  made  me  search  thy  vol- 
ume !  "     The  zeal  and  love  had  begun  in  early  life  and  continued 


•=  «*  ?!  S  tJ  **  •» 


3 


131 

to  its  end.  Mr.  Norton  spoke  of  the  character  of  the  instruc- 
tion Riven  by  Mr.  Lowell,  as  professor,  to  his  classes  in  Dante  ;  and 
then  read  some  extracts  from  letters  of  various  dates  illustrating 

the  constancy  of  Mr.  Lowell's  occupation  with  the  Poet,  closing    lu'f "°  H"  °  °    -"§ 
with  the  following  extract  from  one  of  his  unpublished  college  ^^ 

lectures : — 

'  "  One  is  sometimes  asked  by  young  men  to  recommend  to  them  a 
course  of  reading.  My  advice  would  always  be  to  confine  yourselves 
to  the  supreme  books  in  whatever  literature;  still  better,  to  choose 
some  one  great  author  and  grow  thoroughly  familiar  with  him. 
For  as  all  roads  lead  to  Rome,  so  they  all  likewise  lead  thence  : 
and  you  will  find  that  in  order  to  understand  perfectly  and  weigh 


exactly  any  really  vital  piece  of  literature,  you  will  be  gradually 
and  pleasantly  persuaded  to  studies  and  explorations  of  which  you 
little  dreamed  when  you  began,  and  will  find  yourselves  scholars 
before  you  are  aware.  If  I  may  be  allowed  a  personal  illustration, 
it  was  my  own  profound  admiration  for  the  '  Divina  Commedia' 
of  Dante  that  lured  me  into  what  little  learning  I  possess.  For 
remember  that  there  is  nothing  less  fruitful  than  scholarship  for 
the  sake  of  mere  scholarship,  nor  anything  more  wearisome  in  the 
attainment.  But  the  moment  you  have  an  object  and  a  centre,  at- 
tention is  quickened,  the  mother  of  memory;  and  whatever  you 
acquire  groups  and  arranges  itself  in  an  order  which  is  lucid  be- 
cause it  is  everywhere  in  intelligent  relation  to  an  object  of  con- 
stant and  growing  interest.  Thus,  as  respects  Dante,  I  asked  my- 
self. What  are  his  points  of  likeness  or  unlikeness  with  the  authors 
of  classical  antiquity  ?  In  how  far  is  either  of  these  an  advantage 
or  defect  ?  What  and  how  much  modern  literature  had  preceded 
him  ?  How  much  was  he  indebted  to  it  ?  How  far  had  the  Ital- 
ian language  been  subdued  and  suppled  to  the  uses  of  poetry  or 
prose  before  his  time?  How  much  did  he  color  the  style  or 
thought  of  the  authors  who  followed  him  ?  Is  it  a  fault  or  a  merit 
that  he  is  so  thoroughly  impregnated  with  the  opinions,  passions, 
and  even  prejudices  not  only  of  his  age  but  his  country?  Was  he 
right  or  wrong  in  being  a  Ghibelline  ?  To  what  extent  is  a  cer- 
tain freedom  of  opinion  which  he  shows  sometimes  on  points  of 
religious  doctrine  to  be  attributed  to  the  humanizing  influence  of 
the  Crusades  in  enlarging  the  horizon  of  the  western  mind  by 
bringing  it  in  contact  with  other  races,  religions,  and  social  ar- 
rangements ?  These  and  a  hundred  other  such  questions  were 
constant  stimulants  to  thought  and  inquiry,  stimulants  such  as  no 
merely  objectless  and,  so  to  speak,  impersonal  study  could  have 
supplied.'" 

The  attention  of  members  is  called  to  the  change  made  by  the 
unanimous  vote  of  the  Council,  as  provided  in  section  five  of  the 
By-Laws. 

No  essays  were  presented  in  May.  1892,  for  the  Latham  Prize, 
which  therefore  remains  open  for  another  year.  Atrention  is 
especially  called  to  the  fact  that  '  the  competition  is  open  ret  only 
to  the  students  in  any  department  of  Harvard  University,  and  to 
Harvard  graduates  of  not  more  than  three  years'  standing,  but 
also  to  students  and  graduates  of  similar  standing  in  any  college 
or  university  in  the  United  States.' 

The  following  subjects  are  proposed  for  the  year  1892-93.  but 
competitors  are  at  liberty  to  write  on  any  one  of  the  subjects  which 
have  been  proposed  for  the  six  years  during  which  the  Dante  Prize 
has  been  offered  : — 

1.  A  compaiison  of  Dante's  system  of  sins  11  '  Hell '  and  '  Purgatory, 
and  an  explanation  of  its  apparent  differences  in  the  two  realms. 

2.  Wh->  was  the  Matilda  of  the  '  Earthly  Paradise,'  and  what  is  her 
allegorical  and  symbolical  character? 

3.  The  acquaintance  of  English  writers  from  Chaucer  to  Gray  with 
the  'Divine  Comedy.' 

The  first  of  the  papers  which  accompany  this  Report  concludes 
the  reprint,  begun  last  year,  of  all  documents  known  to  exist  con- 
cerning Dante's  public  life.  A  large  part  of  these  documents  are 
contained  in  books  or  periodical  literature  not  easily  accessible  to 
many  students  of  Dante,  and  it  is  hoped  that  to  such  this  collection 
of  them  may  be  of  permanent  value  ;  to  all  students  it  will  be  a 
convenience  to  have  in  a  single  publication  documents  which  have 
been  too  long  contained  only  in  many  different  works.  The  sec- 
ond paper  is  the  list  of  books  and  periodical  articles  relating  to 
Dante,  received  at  Harvard  College  Library  during  the  year  ending 
May  1,  1892.  These  number  172  titles,  about  the  same  as  last 
year ;  52  are  works  purchased  with  the  Society's  money  ;  53  were 
given  by  authors,  editors,  or  others ;  the  rest  are  articles  in  peri- 
odicals or  books  bought  with  Library  funds.     To  the  many  friends 


yjj=  o  Q-jj  r  E  2^ 

<-  o  o      .SsuuS 

>  Srt  5  »i  ^  <  m 

.u-e  ~  3  -  -  v  o  § 

-=  —  es.ts  •_  .,  *it*:Cj 

*  S  S  3£  2-5  c 

«>  t;  ■"  2      *>      w 

l/l    C    —    k*ti   *i.h 


Q  1)  en  •.£  T3  -o 

C  Zi   ^        u   e   a 
«  —  -a  £  Q-=     - 


On 
00 


-    £  VI 

£2  3 

o    cd  O 

J5  *"^  ■•* 


£  a  3 
a^  2 

T   3   J3 
«   «-,    *j 

^3  a 

O  ~   "3 

<o  a 

CD  "8    aS 

i  *  & 

■S  2  -§ 

*  ^   4 

Co  00 

§«*  s 

3-s  § 

o  *   d 


•3  .n  3 
u-e  £ 

2  5  s 

*J    as  o 

as     71  S. 

SCD 

fc   •-   - 

5 

u 

«  -°  *"■ 

-3     CO     00 

o   «   a 

a  *-a 

^      O      T. 

til 

».  a  & 

i .  * 

J3   ._   _, 

O-a   g 

2  o  a 

a  2 


o   fe  .-fi   » 


•a 


cS    bO   2 

&5  2 


Sfe 


I* 

o    O 
►>    o 

a 

91      O 
I" 

c?2 


d     en 

V3  a 

a  <- 

•-  o 

-a 

•3   ft 

8 


I- 

jJ   bo 

a  a 

s»5 


s   o  .3 
v*    w  "T 


a  3 


.2  a 
•  a 

♦J  Hi 


—  u 

.aZ  e-a  8*2  o 

jr.scDi-^Ourt 
^  —  <u  •-  o      j=  -r,  "s! 

—  £  o  bca£  3  o& 
o  s  c  «  «;  mn 

GEORGE   WILLIAM   CURTIS. 

Jotjbnaljst,  orator,  man  of  letters,  the  lead- 
ng  Independent  in  our  politics,  the  foremost 
among  those  who  have  endeavored  to  redeem 
our  civil  service  from  the  baseness  of  a  parti- 
san system  of  rewards  and  punishments — such 
was  George  William  Curtis,  who  died  after 
much  suffering  on  August  31.  He  was  born  in 
Providence,  R.  I.,  February  24,  1834,  and  was 
thus,  as  it  were,  sealed  from  his  birth  to  that 
u  soul  liberty"  of  Roger  Williams's  proclama- 
tion which  was  a  watchword  often  on  his  lips. 
With  Lowell's  birthday  on  the  22d  of  the  same 
month,  and  Longfellow's  on  the  27tb,  there 
was  here  a  pleasant  omen  of  tho  friendly  near- 
ness of  these  men  that  would  enrich  his  life; 
Lowell's  the  nearer,  that  the  omen  might  not 
lack  anything  of  exactness.  On  his  father's 
side  he  came  of  a  family  that  had  long  been 
honorably  known  in  Worcester,  Mass. ,  and  his 
father,  George  Curtis,  was  a  man  of  pro- 
nounced business  faculty.  His  mother  was  a 
daughter  of  James  Burrill,  jr. ,  at  one  time 
United  States  Senator  from  Rhode  Island,  and 
at  another  Chief  Justice  of  the  State;  and 
hence  we  may  imagine  that  direction  of  his 
blood  which  tended  to  a  life  of  public  interests 
rather  than  one  of  mercantile  pursuits.  The 
latter  would  have  pleased  his  father  more,  and 
to  this  end,  in  183'J,  after  the  boy  had  been  at  a 
boarding-school  near  Boston  for  four  years  and 
with  a  private  tutor  for  another,  he  was  placed 
in  a  German  importing-house  in  New  York. 
In  these  years  he  had  lost  his  mother,  and  his 
father  had  married  again  and  come  to  New 
York  to  engage  in  banking.  The  boy's  school- 
life  at  Jamaica  Plain  is  supposed  to  be  freely 
rendered  in  the  opening  chapters  of  '  Trumps, ' 
Mr.  Curtis's  only  novel  (1858- '9),  and  not  hia 
most  successful  book. 


°  2 

>     -a 
w    u 

CD 

£  2 
2,  W 


3  c 

^  o 

O  J3 

u 

■a  -2 

a  -a 

*»  .2 

GO  T3 


>r-  a 

5J*  on  .3 

2  k  -a 

ej    o 

Q.J3  -3 

O    <J  CD 

*  "  S 

e   b  £ 

JS    CD  t*> 

O  v. 

00  O 

a  * 

-   2  t- 

i  2  2 

0.33  a 

-  a> 

«    a  S 

I  2  - 


1 


9  5  3 

CO  L 
J3 
3     © 

a  • 

bob 

v*   ed  3 


3 

o 


a 

CD       . 

IS 


£  sT*r3  §• 

x   a  ■•*   a   3 
S  S  S  S  — 

*&<■%* 

f->    CD 

JO    kT  -^ 
•"fe- 
ci   9>S  "2 

—  a  a        ^ 
a  js        a  a 

S   cd   3   u  a 

SI  tf^  2 


2£ 


a-! 


1      CD     CD 

3  ••  *■ 


CJ    _ 

*•  a 


E   *    3 

.3    sa    5 


i  2  b 

-j  a  a 

-2  *» 

i  o  2 

3  •  * 

1-1 

3  s  a 


a  a 


a 


CD    _ 

a  -a 


ft  .2  £ 


to  many  a  vivid  stroke ;  among  others,  to  that 
tragic  incident  of  a  poor  girl  who  drowned 
herself,  which  furnished  Hawthorne  with  the 
basis  of  his  drowning  of  Zenobla  in  '  The 
lilitbedale  Romance.' 

From  August,  1846,  until  August,  1850,  Mr. 
Curtis  was  in  Europe,  and  he  never  went 
again  and  nevor  felt  any  pressing  inclination 
to  do  so.  It  may  well  have  been,  especially  in 
the  later  years,  because  he  knew  that  it  would 
be  "  another  Yarrow,"  and  another  every- 
thing, if  he  went  again.  His  itinerary,  even  for 
those  times,  was  of  uncommon  interest,  for  it 
took  him  first  to  Italy,  then  to  Switzerland, 
Germany,  Holland,  Egypt,  Palestine,  and  to 
England  on  the  eve  of  his  return ;  and  it  coin- 
cided with  a  period  of  great  events — that  of 
the  revolutions  of  1848.  In  Italy,  wit"  others,  he 
risked  a  dangerous  walk  from  Como  to  Milan, 
and  he  was  in  Berlin  at  the  time  of  the  out- 
break, and  saw  that  most  impressive  sight,  the 
eotlios  of  a  hundred  or  more  of  the  dead  revo- 
lutionists borne  in  long  procession  on  the 
shoulders  of  their  comrades  to  their  burial. 
He  made  many  acquaintances  that  were  an 
honor  to  his  youth  and  a  growing  satis 
faction  to  his  maturer  years;  the  Brownings 
possibly  the  most  precious  of  them  all.  The 
manner  of  his  meeting  them  is  related  in  one 
of  the  "  Easy  Chair  "  papers  included  in  the 
select  volume  published  in  1691. 

But  Mr.  Curtis's  travels  were  of  more  im- 
portance because  of  the  literary  fruit  they 
bore  than  because  of  any  enjoyment  that  be 
reaped  from  them  at  the  immediate  time. 
This  fruit — the  'Nile  Notes'  and  'Ibe  Howadji 
in  Syria' — was  of  an  Eastern  daintiness  which 
melted  in  the  mouth.  They  were  not  the  stun* 
to  brace  the  intellectual  or  moral  man,  but 
they  were  no  vain  repetitions  of  a  theme 
which,  even  then,  was  not  unworn;  they  wore 
fantasias  upon  It  which  involved  every  con- 
crete detail  in  rosy  mists  of  fancy  and  conceit. 
The  manner  was  not  unrelated  to  other  writ- 
ing of  the  time,  but  it  had  the  stamp  of  indi- 
vidual talent  upon  every  page.  Here,  as  in 
'  Prue  and  I,'  sentiment  was  pushed  to  the 
verge  of  sentimental  ism,  but  not  across  the 
line.  The  '  Nile  Notes  '  was  published  in  1851, 
and  'The  Howadji  in  Syria'  in  1852;  and  the 
latter  gave  to  Mr.  Curtis  a  sobriquet  that  clung 
to  him  for  many  years  and  into  a  period  which 
had  little  in  common  with  the  dreamy  languor 
of  the  Howadji.  While  Mr.  Curtis  was  abroad 
be  furnished  occasional  letters  to  the  New 
York  Times  and  Tribune,  of  which  his  friends 
Henry  J.  Raymond  and  Charles  A.  Dana  were 
then  managing  editors.  His  first  literary 
work  after  his  return  was  in  the  way  of  musi- 
cal criticism  for  the  Tribune,  and  simulta- 
neously, or  soon  after,  he  wrote  a  series  of  let- 
ters for  the  same  journal  about  the  Catakills, 
Niagara,  Saratoga,  and  other  places  of  sum- 
mer resort.  These  were  gathered  into  a 
volume  in  1852,  and  they  aro  as  pleasant  now 
as  when  they  first  appeared — pleasanter  than 
the  places  which  they  celebrate  are  now,  ex- 
cept Niagara,  which,  like  Browning's  forest, 
has  "relapsed  to  its  ancient  mood."  And  here 
it  may  fitly  be  mentioned  that  Mr.  Curtis's 
predilection  for  u  doing  good  by  stealth  and 
getting  found  out,"  though  for  the  second  part 
he  did  not  care,  had  a  fine  illustration  in  bis 
silent    partnership    in    the    enterprise    which 


132 

saved  Niagara  from  private  greed  and  made 
it  the  possession  of  the  State.  No  one  except 
his  friend  Prof.  Norton  was  more  helpful  in 
that  business. 

In  1852  Mr.  Curtis  did  his  first  work  for 
Harper's  Monthly,  the  earliest  of  bis  com- 
ments on  the  social  world,  foregleams  of  '  The 
Potiphar  Papers  '  and  the  long  bright  day  of 
genial,  social  satire  that  was  afterwards  to 
shine  in  bis  department  of  the  same  maga- 
zine. But  in  the  meantime  be  was  to  have 
some  pleasant  and  some  sad  experience  as  the 
editor  of  Putnam's  New  Monthly  Magazine. 
Parke  Godwin  and  Charles  F.  Briggs,  yclept 
"  Harry  Franco"  in  Lowell's  'Fable  for  Critics,  * 
were  associated  with  him  in  the  editorial  care. 
In  it,  as  in  no  previous  venture,  was  the 
promise  and  the  potency  of  our  present  Har- 
per's, Century,  Scribner's,  and  Atlantic. 
But  it  had  a  charaoter  of  its  own,  not  repro- 
duced in  any  one  of  these,  though  in  the  At- 
lantic more  than  in  the  others.  Mr.  Curtis  con- 
tributed to  it  his  '  Potiphar  Papers '  and  his 
'Prue  and  I,'  the  former  his  most  satirical 
performance,  showing  unmistakably  the  in- 
fluence of  Thackeray,  for  whom  he  had  the 
warmest  admiration,  increased  by  personal  ac- 
quaintance; and  though  he  could  not  be  other 
than  a  "kindly  wag,"  his  spear  disclosed  abun- 
dant snobbishness  and  other  folly  in  the  social 
world.  'Prue  and  1'  was  very  different,  the 
most  charming  bit  of  sentiment  he  ever  wrote. 
The  different  papers  which  made  up  'The 
Homes  of  American  Authors'  were  ahio  writ- 
ten for  Putnam's.  His  business  connection 
with  the  enterprise  was  less  fortunate.  When 
the  magazino  changed  bands,  Mr.  Curtis  con- 
nected himself  with  the  new  firm,  which 
soon  failed.  Well  might  Lowell  write  to 
William  Page,  a  common  friend,  "Tincture  of 
laurel  is  not  good  for  daily  bread."  By  avail- 
ing himself  of  legal  technicalities  Mr.  Curtis 
might  have  escaped  his  share  of  the  responsi- 
bility, but  he  was  incapable  of  doing  this. 
Holding  himself  morally  responsible,  be  went 
to  work  as  heroically  as  Sir  Walter  in  bis  last 
years,  but  fortunately  with  youth  and  health 
upon  his  side,  to  pay  a  greater  sum  than  he 
had  ever  hoped  to  gather  for  his  own. 

He  was  now  settled  in  his  "  Easy  Chair," 
and  was  also  writing  a  series  of  papers  for 
Harper's  Weekly  called  "The  Lounger,"  but 
his  income  from  these  sources  did  >ot  begin  to 
meet  the  creditors'  enormous  claim.  He  en- 
larged his  lecture  field  and  gave  some  years 
a  hundred  lectures  in  the  season  for  such 
edification.  His  rivals  were  Beecher  and 
Chapin  and  Parker  and  Emerson  and  Phillips 
and  many  of  le-s  note,  but  no  one  was  wel- 
comed more  cordially  than  he  or  did  less  to  de- 
base the  currency  which  he  exchanged  for 
"Fame,"  as  Chapin  call,  d  it— "Fifty  And  My 
Expenses,"  then  a  maximum  rate.  Parker 
was  more  massive,  Emerson  more  profound 
and  mystical,  Phillips  more  incisive,  Chapin 
more  vehement,  Beecher  more  humorous  and 
impassioned,  but  Curtis  had  a  charm  of  voice 
and  manner  of  his  own,  suiting  the  dignity  of 
noble  thoughts  expressed  in  musical  cadences. 
Many  of  his  lectures  were  upon  literary  sub- 
jects, but  always  with  a  lively  feeling 
for  tho  personality  behind  the  book.  His 
"Sir  Philip  Sidney  "  was  related  to  his  re- 
pertory much  os  Phillips's  "  Lost  Arts  "  to  his, 


which  was  much  more  contracted;  and  ever, 
as  men  heard  it,  they  confused  ihe  speaker 
with  the  man  of  whom  he  spoke.  As  the 
anti-slavery  combat  deepened,  his  lectures 
took  its  impress  more  and  more,  until  fre- 
quently it  became  his  solitary  theme,  and  he 
must  go  from  Dr.  Furness's  house,  in  Philadel- 
phia, to  the  lecture-hall  with  eight  revolvers 
In  the  pockets  of  as  many  friends  to  insure 
his  safoty.  But,  whatever  the  subject  or 
the  inspiration  of  the  lecturer  or  the  edi- 
torial contributor,  the  bulk  of  all  his  earnings 
for  a  dozon  years  and  more  went  to  the  pay- 
ment of  his  debt.  Yet  could  political  passion 
rage  so  fierce  in  1884  that  men  who  knew  all 
this  could  not  account  for  Mr.  Curtis's  political 
course  but  by  imputing  to  him  mercenary  mo- 
tives ! 

Students  of  Lowell' s  life  have  found  in  his 
great  love  for  Maria  White  and  his  happy 
marriage  with  that  lady  the  secret  of  his  deep- 
ening purpose  and  his  devotion  to  the  anti- 
slavery  cause.  Late  in  1856  Mr.  Curtis  was 
married  to  Anna  Shaw,  and  John  C.  Fre- 
mont was  at  the  wedding.  Mr.  Curtis  had 
just  done  his  best  for  this  candidate  in  the 
Presidential  campaign,  but  the  Quakers  had 
not  "  come  out,"  and  Fremont  could  lend 
to  Mr.  Curtis's  nuptials  only  the  ornament  of 
a  defeated  general,  still  picturesque,  as  he  had 
always  been,  and  little  more.  But  the  coinci- 
dence of'Mr.  Curtis's  political  beginnings  with 
his  marriage  is  too  obvious  not  to  suggest 
a  wonder  whether  here  also  there  was  not 
a  propter  hoc.  Certain  it  is  that  his  wife, 
a  daughter  of  Francis  George  and  Sarah 
B.  Shaw,  and  sister  of  Col.  Robert  G.  Shaw, 
who  was  "buried  with  his  niggers"  at 
Fort  Wagner,  and  of  Josephine,  who  mar- 
ried Col.  Charles  R.  Lowell  of  like  glorious 
fame,  was  of  a  stock  and  parentage  so  earnest 
and  so  philanthropic,  and  was  so  true  to 
all  their  inspirations,  that  Mr.  Curtis  may 
well  have  found  some  heightening  of  his  aims 
in  his  new  life  and  love  and  in  the  new  associa- 
tions that  now  touched  his  spirit.  Before  this 
there  was  little  in  his  character  that  prophe- 
sied the  man  he  came  to  be.  It  seemed  much 
more  likely  that  his  star  would  lead  him  to  a 
career  exclusively  literary,  if  not  dilettantish, 
than  that  he  would  be  found  among  the  pro- 
phets of  political  justice  and  the  organizers 
of  political  reform.  But  there  was  little 
doubt  which  way  it  was  leading  him  after 
1856.  From  that  time  onward  the  anti- 
slavery  conflict  became  more  engrossing  to  his 
mind  and  heart,  and  entered  more  largely 
Into  his  pubic  utterance.  Not  content  with 
this,  he  entered  vigorously  into  the  local 
politics  of  Staten  Island,  where  he  had  made 
his  home,  and  soon  found  himself  Chairman 
of  the  Republican  County  Committee,  an  office 
which  he  held  for  many  years,  nor  was  it  any 
sinecure  as  held  by  him.  In  1860  he  was 
a  delegate  to  the  Republican  Convention 
which  nominated  Abraham  Lincoln ;  though 
Seward  was  his  candidate,  he  afterwards 
appreciated  to  the  full  the  happy  fortune 
which  secured  the  honor  for  the  less  experienc- 
ed but  wiser  man.  A  speech  which  Mr. 
Curtis  made  at  this  Convention  was  the  most 
impressive  and  effective  of  all  the  shorter 
speeches  of  his  life.  A  motion  by  Joshua 
R.    Giddings     to    add    a    clause    from    the 


Declaration  of  Independence  had  been  lost 
by  a  large  majority  In  their  desire  to  con- 
ciliate the  border  States.  Mr.  Giddings  was 
about  to  leave  the  Convention  when  he  was 
brought  back  by  John  H.  Bryant,  a  brother 
of  William  Cullen  Bryant,  to  hear  a  motion 
by  Mr.  Curtis  which  differed  inappreciably 
from  his  own,  and  a  speech  in  its  support  which 
carried  the  Convention  with  its  impassioned  elo- 
quence and  secured  for  the  motion  a  unani- 
mous vote.  After  Lincoln's  election,  Mr.  Cur- 
tis's  energy  on  the  platform  and  the  stump 
was  directed  to  so  husbanding  the  victories  of 
the  war  that  they  should  be  the  victories 
of  emancipation.  But  before  the  war 
was  over  (1863)  he  had  become  the  political 
editor  of  Harper's  Weekly,  and  thus  secured 
"a  door  of  utterance  "  much  wider  than  the 
platform  of  the  lecturer  had  afforded  him. 
In  1869  ho  was  urgently  invited  to  assume  the 
editorship  of  the  N.  Y.  Times,  Henry  J.  Ray- 
mond having  died.  Many  have  felt  that  here 
was  the  most  splendid  opportunity  he  ever 
had,  yet  ho  put  it  from  him  as  a  forbidden 
thing. 

Mr.  Curtis  has  been  often  spoken  of  as  one 
who  abandoned  a  literary  career  for  that  of 
politics  and  reform.  Hut  he  did  nothing  of  the 
kind.  Ruskin  assures  us  that  all  rivers  have 
their  deep  and  shallow  side.  It  may  not  be  so 
—most  likely  it  is  not;  but  Mr.  Curtis  had  his 
deeper  side  in  his  political  activity,  and  a  side 
less  deep  where  his  mirth  and  humor  played 
in  and  out  among  the  social  topics  of  the  time, 
among  men  and  books,  as  the  sunlight  plays 
among  the  leaves  and  pebbles  of  a  river's  shal- 
lower side.  The  literary  impulse  of  his  youth 
was  continued  in  the  essays  of  his  "Easy 
Chair,"  but  the  essays  were  not  editorials  and 
the  editorials  were  never  the  superfluous  pro- 
ducts of  his  "Easy  Chair."  It  was  remarkable 
that  two  lines  of  production  could  be  kept  so 
perfectly  distinct  for  thirty  years.  But  in  all 
this  time,  and  especially  in  the  concluding 
score,  Mr.  Curtis  had  a  third  instrument  of 
use  and  power,  the  oration,  in  which  the 
strength  of  bis  editorial  writing  and  the  beauty 
of  his  essays  both  found  expression,  while 
there  was  scope  for  other  faculties  which  these 
did  not  employ,  something  architechtonic, 
which  evolved  their  structure  into  a  noble 
symmetry, 

"swelling  up  loudly 
To  a  climax  and  then  dying  proudly." 

In  these  last  years  Mr.  Curtis  wrote  but  few 
lectures  in  the  manner  of  those  earlier  ones 
which  delighted  both  the  town  and  the  country 
mouse,  but  he  wrote  and  delivered  many  ora- 
tions, and  their  structure  was  quite  different 
from  that  of  bis  lectures.  They  were  general- 
ly read,  but  they  had  not  the  efifect  of  read- 
ing, and  when  they  were  memorized,  as  at  the 
laying  of  the  corner-stone  of  the  Washington 
Arch,  there  was  no  creak  of  the  memoriter 
machine.  He  was  the  ornament  of  many 
great  occasions;  municipalities  and  States 
were  always  seeking  him  for  their  great 
commemorations  and  to  honor  their  illuatri 
ous  dead.  His  eulogies  upon  Sumner  and 
Phillips  and  Bryant  and  Lowell  were  all 
significant  and  admirable,  each  subtly  fit- 
ted to  its  special  theme,  and  that  upon  Lowell 
(1892)  fitly  concluding  the  distinguished  line. 
Each  one  of    these  and   every  other  was  made 


133 
the  vehicle  of   some   impressive  lesson    needed 
by  the  Hour.    And  the  same  is  true  of  all  that 
multitude  of   speeches  which    he    delivered  at 
civic  banquets  and  on  similar  occasions. 

Already  a  generation  has  arisen  that  knows 
not  the  Hon. Thomas  A.  Jenckes  of  Rhodo  Isl- 
and, who  in  1865  framed  the  first  practical 
measure  of  civil-service  reform,  and,  by  his 
intelligent  and  earnest  advocacy,  compelled  an 
unwilling  legislature  to  give  It  at  least  the 
semblance  of  a  trial;  but  Mr.  Curtis  was  al- 
ways ready  to  disclaim  the  honor,  which  waa 

frequently  accorded  him,  of  being  a  pioneer 
in  that  "  wilderness  of  shameful  precedent." 
He  always  cherished  for  Mr.  Jenckes  a  Ken>o 
of  loyalty  as  to  a  living  chief.  He  beenmo  at 
once  his  second  in  command,  and  in  1871  waa 
appointed  by  President  Grant  to  tho  Chair- 
manship of  the  first  Civil-Service  Commission. 
Ho  nover  doubted  Grant's  sincority  or  earnest- 
ness in  the  matter,  but  the  President  felt  him- 
self too  much  alone  to  keep  up  tho  weary 
fight.  It  was  given  up  in  1873,  and  Mr.  Cur- 
tis, whose  hopes  had  been  absurdly  high,  waa 
correspondingly  depressed  and  full  of  mortifi- 
cation and  chagrin.  But  be  soon  rallied,  and, 
under  his  guidance,  and  inspired  by  bis  re- 
solve, the  National  Civil-Service  Reform 
Len^ue  was  formed  in  1881,  with  local  organi- 
zations wherever  a  nucleus  of  political  ideal- 
ists could  be  found.  The  first  of  these,  the 
New  York  Civil-Service  Reform  Association, 
had  been  organized  in  1877  and  reorganized 
in  1880,  from  which  time  Mr.  Curtis  was  it* 
President,  drawing  to  him  many  strong  allies. 
In  Harper's  Weekly  he  applauded  every  onward 
step,  and  stigmatized  in  fitting  terms  each  old 
abuse  or  cowardly  retreat.  He  was  in  corre- 
spondence with  every  Senator  and  Represen- 
tative or  State  official  or  municipal  officer  in 
whom  there  was  any  hope  of  better  things. 
At  each  annual  meeting  of  the  National 
League.as  its  President,  he  made  a  careful  ad- 
dress inwbich  he  counted  up  the  losses  and  the 
gains  and  measured  men  according  to  their 
works.  And  his  reward  was  great.  At  the 
time  of  the  last  annual  meeting  already  more 
than  36,000  national  offices  had  been  redeemed 
from  the  spoils  system  and  made  subject  to 
competitive  examination  and  promotion  upon 
merit — to  say  nothing  of  the  reform  effected 
in  New  York  and  in  Massachusetts;  while 
bills  have  been  proposed  in  the  present  Con- 
gress which,  if  only  evidence  of  that  "hy- 
pocrisy" which  is  "the  homage  that  vice  pays 
to  virtue,"  are  signs  that  may  not  be  despised. 
To  support  Gen.  Grant  in  1872  was  a  great 
strain  on  Mr.  Curtis's  loyalty  to  his  party; 
when  it  came  to  supporting  Mr.  Blaine  in  1884, 
the  strain  was  more  than  he  could  bear.  At 
the  Convention  which  nominated  Blaine  he  did 
his  best  to  avert  the  evil ;  and  when  that  prov- 
ed impossible,  faithful  to  his  constituents,  he 
remained  until  the  end,  to  save,  if  possible,  a 
little  from  the  general  wreck.  A  conference 
of  Independents  was  soon  after  held,  and  an 
organization  formed  allying  the  recalcitrant 
Republicans  with  the  interests  of  Mr.  Cleve- 
land in  the  pending  election.  Of  this  confer- 
ence and  organization  Mr.  Curtis  was  the  life 
and  soul.  His  editorials  gave  no  uncertain 
sound.  They  had  always  been  the  exact  ex- 
pression of    his    own    opinions,  absolute    and 


complete,  equally  free  from  partisan  duplicity 
and  personal  control.  Once,  in  the  Cornell  or 
Folger  time,  when  a  phrase  In  one  of  them 
had  been  softened  by  his  publishers,  he  being 
out  of  reach,  the  next  week  the  paper  waa 
without  an  editor,  and  that  was  sufficient  for 
the  understanding  that  there  should  be  no  fur- 
ther tampering.  Now,  he  and  they  were  whol- 
ly of  one  mind.  But  the  campaign  was 
fraught  for  Mr.  Curtis  with  the  utmost  bitter- 
ness. Day  after  day  his  mail  came  to  him 
foul  with  anonymous  abuse  and  the  reproaches 
of  his  dearest  friends.  And  no  man  had  loved 
the  Republican  party  more  than  he.  Had 
be  remained  in  it,  we  are  assured  that 
his  ideals  would  have  compelled  the  alle- 
giance of  the  party  soon  or  late,  and  that 
honors  only  less  tempting  than  the  highest 
would  have  been  at  once  within  his  grasp. 
But  for  him  to  remain  was  simply  impossible. 
Great  offices  had  for  him  no  great  temptation. 

President  Hayes  bad  wished  to  make  him 
Minister  to  England,  ami,  further  on,  to  Ger- 
many, but  he  preferred  bis  editorial  chairs, 
though  each  had  no  doubt  those  "  thorns  in  the 
cushion"  of  which  Thackoray  wrote  so  feeling- 
ly. Once  he  had  accepted  a  nomination  for 
Congress,  but  it  was  only  "  to  stand  up  and 
be  shot  at,"  without  expectation  of  success. 
But  these  things  were  neither  here  nor  there. 
Ho  could  not  support  Mr.  Blaine  with  a  good 
conscience,  and  therofore  he  could  not  support 
him  at  all.  In  1888  he  again  supported  Mr. 
Cleveland.  Not  that  he  was  by  any  means 
satisllod  with  his  administration  of  the  civil 
service,  but  he  thought  Mr.  Harrison  would  do 
much  worse,  and  the  event  haa  justified  bis 
premonition.  Latterly,  with  renewed  confi- 
dence in  Mr.  Cleveland,  bis  confidence  in  the 
Democratic  party  as  represented  by  its 
managers  and  Congressional  representatives 
and  Tammany  Hall  had  steadily  declined. 
But  tho  nomination  of  Mr.  Cleveland  in  spite 
of  these  assured  him  of  the  sounder  mind  in 
the  great  body  of  the  party. 

In  1S67  Mr.  Curtis  was  Chairman  of  the 
Committee  on  Education  in  the  State  Constitu- 
tional Convention,  and  in  the  courso  of  the 
debates  he  urged  the  enfranchisement  of 
women  in  a  speech  of  great  ability,  but  with- 
out any  practical  result.  Tho  enlargement 
of  women's  educational  opportunities  was  a 
matter  very  near  his  heart,  and  he  brought 
all  the  resources  of  his  humorous  satire  to  bear 
on  the  opposing  party.  As  a  member  of  the 
Board  of  Regents  from  1864  he  exerted  a  happy 
influence  on  the  educational  methods  of  the 
State,  and  as  Chancellor  of  the  University  of 
the  State  of  New  York  he  mediated  graciously 
between  the  confidence  of  the  larger  uni- 
versities and  the  jealousy  of  the  smaller  col- 
leges and  academies.  As  President  of  the 
Metropolitan  Museum  his  influence  was 
steadily  for  the  improvement  of  its  collections 
and  their  more  unrestricted  popular  use  on 
all  days  of  the  week.  He  was  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  National  Conference  of  Unita- 
rian Churches  and  a  Vice-President  of 
the  American  Unitarian  Association.  That 
he  was  also  an  officer  of  the  Free  Religious  As- 
sociation shows  that  his  Unitarianism  was  of 
the  radical  type.  In  the  little  Unitarian 
Church  at  Staten   Island  he  often    read  the 


sermops  of  Mariineau  and   Dewey  and  others 
to  "audience  fit  though  few." 

In  1889  Mr.  Curtis  edited  an  edition  of  John 
Lothrop  Motley's  letters,  and  it  was  charac- 
teristic of  his  genial  disposition  that  he  omit 
ted  almost  every  reference  to  the  most  painful 
episodes  of  Motley's  lifo.  It  was  only  natural 
that  there  were  those  who  thought  that  this  was 
not  well  done. 

No  man  was  ever  less  inclined  to  insist 
upon  the  maxim,  ' '  The  laborer  is  worthy  of 
bis  hire."  He  did  a  very  great  amount  of 
unrewarded,  often  thankless,  work,  especially 
as  he  answered  every  decent  letter  he  received, 
however  stupid  it  might  be.  He  was  prodi- 
gal of  help  to  those  who  sought  his  judgment 
in  great  literary  tasks.  His  eloquence  was 
often  at  the  service  of  some  honorable  cause  or 
valued  friend.  In  every  personal  relation  he 
was  a  good  man  to  know,  a  better  man  to 
love,  as  relative  or  friend.  He  was  full 
of  pleasant  talk  and  golden  memories  of  per- 
sons and  events,  nowhere  more  interesting 
and  engaging  than  in  some  friendly  circle; 
everywhere,  and  especially  in  his  own  borne, 
the  least  formidable  of  men,  putting  the 
most  awkward  at  their  ease.  His  most 
remarkable  endowment  was  not  any  in- 
tellectual distinction,  any  imaginative  foroe 
or  originality  of  mind,  but  a  character  which 
uniied  in  itself  the  rarest  gentleness  and  tho 
hternest  sense  of  duty  and  resolve  to  have  it 
done.  He  was  our  Puritan  cavalier.  His  gra- 
cious manners  masked  an  iron  will.  He  add- 
ed nothing  to  our  literature  which  did 
not  make  for  kindness,  charity,  and  peace; 
nothing  to  our  politics  which  does  not  shame 
its  ordinary  levels  and  beckon  it  to  higher 
things. 


134 


THE  DELPHIC  HYMN  TO  APOLLO. 

An  event  of  the  greatest  interest,  not  only  to  aroheolo- 
gists  and  classical  scholars,  but  to  the  world  of  culture 
generally,  is  the  recent  reproduction  of  the  Hymn  to 
Apollo,  found  on  two  inscriptions  unearthed  at  Delphi 
by  the  French  excavators  last  October.  Every  one  can 
imagine  the  emotion  with  which  (he  select  audience, 
gathered  recently  in  the  library  of  the  French  School  at 
Athens,  listened  to  the  tones  which,  after  a  silence  of 
two  thousand  years,  once  more  vibrated  upon  the  air. 
The  melody,  rendered  by  four  male  voices  in  unison  and 
accompanied  very  cleverly  on  the  piano  by  M.  Nisolle,  a 
French  student  of  ancient  musical  lore,  produced  a  pow- 
erful impression ;  its  weird  cadences  had  a  mysterious 
charm,  and  the  prevailing  minor  character  gave  to  the 
whole  hymn  an  effect  of  grandeur  and  majesty.  It  is 
understood,  of  course,  that  these  effects  were  partly  due 
to  the  piano  accompaniment ;  but  the  latter,  asM.  Nicolle 
assures  us,  was  composed  on  the  basis  of  what  is  known 
of  ancient  Greek  instrumental  music,  so  that  it  is  not 
unfair  to  judge  of  the  performance  as  a  whole.  But  we 
owe  the  reader  the  chief  details  of  this  subject. 

This  Hymn  to  Apollo  consists  of  two  inscriptions,  or 
rather  two  slabs  of  the  same  inscription,  found  in  the 
Treasure- House  of  the  Athenians  at  Delphi.  The  be- 
ginnings and  the  ends  of  the  slabs  are  mutilated,  and 
the  first  slab  has  lost  a  large  piece  down  the  right-hand 
side ;  but  there  can  be  no  reasonable  doubt  that  they 


belong  together,  and  probably  there  was  a  (tiird  slab  as 
well,  for  the  conclusion  of  the  Hymn  is  not  to  be  found 
on  the  second.  » The  letters  of  the  inscription  are  of  the 
post-classic  style,  an  indication  confirmed  by  what  seems 
to  be  a  reference  to  the  invasion  of  Greece  by  the  Gauls 
in  278  b.  c.  Thus  the  Hymn  in  all  probability  dates  back 
to  the  middle  of  the  third  pre-Christian  century,  and 
was  contemporary  to  the  more  learned,  tho  hardly  more 
powerful  hymas  of  K  vlli  maclioj.  It  was  evidently  sung 
by  a  a  Athenian  dep  nation  or  bind  of  pilgrims  on  their 
march  up  to  the  sacred  Kastalian  fountain  ;  indeed,  the 
conjecture  made  by  M.  Reinach  is  quite  plausible,  that 
it  was  composed  by  order  of  the  Athenian  Republic  and 
sung  at  the  festival  of  the  Soteria  (in  memory  of  the 
victory  over  the  Gauls)  by  the  great  embassy  sent  to 
Delphi  to  thank  the  god  for  sparing  Athens  the  calamity 
of  foreign  invasion. 

The  hymn  is  composed  in  the  peonic  meter,  with  all 
iits  varied  substitutions.  Following  is  the  text  with  a 
■literal  translation,  as  restored  by  MM.  Reinach  and 
Weil,  of  Paris.     First  fragment  : 

[Ad]r/vaio(. 
[tov  KiOapi\oei  xtardi'   Tuirfu  /ityaXov  [Ai6\ 
(f  tpua"  arc  Tujp  aicpovtQf/  r6v6t  n&yov  atxu- 
\6pora  np6\  naai  dvaroioii;  wpopaivei  [««] 
fc  X6ytat  Tft]iiroda  fiavrcttiov  <jc  cie'i[Xtit  ex-\ 
[flpdf  bv  ifp]  ovovpetet  Spanuv,  brc  Tt[oloi\ 
\piXcaiv  lr]ori>/3a(;  nioXuv  ihiirdv[Qv6v] 

ovvpiy/iaff  <»f<f  d0<j;r[evroc] 

Jf  raXaraAv  <Vw  [eight  broken  lines] 

Second  fragment : 

tarov  Qedv  oa 
[' hl'AiKu]  va  CaftvdevSpov  al  Xd[;re]- 
[t£,  Aiic]  i[pt\6p6.aovov  duyarpsQ  i'vit\e\yot,\ 
p6fa[r]£,  aw6fiotuuv  iva  Qouitov  iu6aei. 
at  fit\\\niTe  xpvae0K^fiav,  &f  ava  iiKophv- 
1a  TlapvaoaWoc  raaoit  ircrtpac  idpava  /*[*]- 
ra  /cAuraifif  beeXpleuv  KaoraXidof 
lovbdpov  wi/iar'  k^cviaerai,   HO.tyuv  ava 
\np\uuva  fiaavTetelov  t^truv,    xayov. 
VWi],  k\viu%  uiya\6rro}.is  'A0#if,  ev£Oi£- 
[}o]i  Qep&irXoto  vaiovaa  Tptruuvi<fi(  rfdfirf]- 
[S\ov  aOpavorov  dyiotf  6i  fjufioioiotv  "A- 
[ejaurrof  aieide [t]  vtuv  fif/pa  raobpuv  bfwv- 
ov  6e  viv  '  Apay  dr^dc  irt  'OXvfinov  iiva.Kidv\a\ 
rar  ?uyv  <5£  Aurodf  6p£/iuv  acldXoioitfjil] 
Xtaiv  uidaav  Kpticei,  xPva*a  &  d<lbOpov[  c .  td\- 
ttapif  x/fivoiaiv  ava/itXrzcTar   (i  Si  [0]- 
[?]cj[p](J!>  jrpdiraf  ta/wr  'AtHfida  XaX[&v] 

"...  the  Athenian  Lor,  By  AthenueusJ  .  .  .  Thee 
we  praise,  son  of  great  Zeus,  famous  for  thy  playing  upon 
the  clthara,  who  beside  this  snow-capped  mountain  dost 
foretell  divine  words  to  all  mortals  .  .  .  how  thou  didst 
capture  the  oracular  tripod  guarded  by  a  hostile  dragon, 
when  with  thy  arrow-  thou  didst  pierce  his  spotted,  coil- 
ing body  .  wildly  hissing, untamed  .  .  .  thewar 
of  the  Gauls  .  .  .  passed  the  unholy  .  .  .  (Second  frag- 
ment): ...  Ye  daughters  of  loud-thundering  Zeus, who 
have  received  a-s  your  portion  thickly- wooded  Helicon,  ye  of 
the  beautiful  arms,  come  and  with  your  songs  extol  your 
brother  Phoebus  of  the  golden  locks,  who  near  the  twin- 
peaked  abodes  of  this  Parnansiau  rock,  hovers  among  the 
far-famed  Delphic  maidens  about  the  waters  of  Kastalia's 
plenteous  spring,  as  he  visits  this  lofty  crag  of  the  Delphic 
oracle.  Come  with  thy  prayers,  O  glorious  Attic  metropo- 
lis, who  inhanitestthe  undestroyed  land  of  the  armed  Trl- 


tonts.  Upon  the  sacred  altars  Hephaistos  burns  the  thigh 
bones  of  young  bullocks  and  at  the  same  time  the  black  va- 
por ['Afjaif/ar/ioi,  incense?]  is  wafted  up  to  Olympus.  Merrily 
the  whistling  pipes  strike  up  an  ode  of  varied  song,  and  the 
golden,  sweet-voiced  clthara  resounds  with  hymns,  while 
the  entire  body  of  envoys,  who  have  received  Attica  as 
their  lot    .    .    ." 

That  this  hymn  was  set  to  music  would  be  evident, 
even  were  there  no  musical  signs  affixed,  from  the  re- 
duplication of  man/  vowels  or  diphthongs  (e.  y,, 
ipfjov.ov-fjei.ei)  denoting  that  the  reduplicated  syllable  cov- 
ered two  notes  when  suug ;  but,  fortunately,  the  music- 
al score  is  also  given,  by  I'-ttera  of  the  Ionic  alphabet, 
upright  or  reversed,  placed  above  the  syllables.  M. 
Reinach  transcribes  the  melody  on  the  modern  key  of 
three  flats,  tho  this  is,  no  doubt,  arbitrary.  One  notices 
the  great  range  of  th<>  melody,  covering  more  than  the 
mean  vocal  octave/-/,  and  reaching  the  limit  of  an 
augmented  eleventh.  The  rhythm  of  the  hymn  is  t  time, 
with  a  noticeable  increase  of  vivacity  in  the  second  half. 

With  regard  to  the  musical  notation,  the  new  Hymn, 
which  is  the  most  complete  and  authentic  document 
of  its  kind,  more  than  confirms  beyond  all  doubt  the 
testimony  of  ancient  writers  on  the  theory  of  music. 
Our  knowledge  of  ancient  Greek  music  (indeed,  of 
Roman  music  as  well,  which  is  never  spoken  of  as  dis- 
tinct from  the  Greek)  h  is  been  derived  hitherto  from  a  few 
unimportant  fragments  of  musical  pieces,  a  few  scattered 
notices  in  the  works  of  Plato  and  Aristotle,  and  a  goodly 
number  of  theoretical  works  of  ancient  authors.  Thus, 
we  have  three  hymns  of  Dionysius  and  Mesomedes  (of 
the  reign  of  Hadrian),  tht  instrumental  composition  of 
the  Anonymous(ed.  Bellerinaan),ashort,  musical  inscrip- 
tion of  Tralles,  and  a  fragment  of  a  chorus  of  Euripides's 
"Orestes"  (ed.  Wessely),  since  proved  to  bear  no  musical 
si^ns,  but  only  peculiar  punctuation  marks .  The  chief 
theoretical  works  are  those  of  Aristoxenos,  the  real 
founder  of  ancient  musical  science,  of  Aristides,  the  ora- 
tor, of  Claudius  Ptolemaeus,  the  eminent  astronomer  and 
mathematician  of  the  reign  of  Antoninus  Pius  (preserved 
only  partially  in  a  commentary  of  Porphyrius).  To 
these  must  be  added  the  works  of  Alypius,  Gaudentius, 
Pseudo-Plutarch,  Martianus  Oapella,  Boethios,  and  the 
stray  notices  in  Pollux  and  Atheoaeus.  The  work  also  of 
Manuel  Brienmos  (fourteenth  century)  is  of  great  im- 
portance for  the  many  excerpts  which  it  contains  of  an- 
cient musical  lore. 

As  is  well  known,  the  Greeks  used  a  different  notation 
for  instrumental  and  for  vocal  music.  The  latter 
comprised  fifteen  signs  or  notes,  of  which  the  new 
Hymn  gives  fourteen,  F*TOMAKierBO+X.  Alypius 
gives  the  varied  notation  of  these  fifteen  notes  in 
three  classes :  diatonic,  chromatic  and  enharmon- 
ic, a  distinction  which  will  ba  perfectly  intelligi- 
ble to  modern  students  of  music.  The  fourteen 
musical  signs  of  the  new  Hymn,  with  the  exception  of 
two,  l>elong  to  the  notation  of  the  chromatic  trope.  Yet 
the  character  of  the  melody  is  not  strictly  chromatic 
throughout;  on  the  contrary,  the  opening  twenty-five 
lines  are  diatonic,  then  follows  a  chromatic  passage  bad- 
ly mutilated,  on  quite  an  elevated  pitch.  With  the 
beginning  of  the  second  half  we  have  another  diatonic 
passage,  followed  by  the  chief  chromatic  passage,  and 
lastly  another  diatonic  passage.  It  would  seem  that 
these  changes  in  the  character  of  the  music  corre- 
spond to  changes  in  the  subject  matter  of  the  text. 


135  The  music  of   this   Hymn  belongs  to  the    so-called 

Phrygian  or  Hypo-Phrygian  class.  The  ancient  authors 
give  eleven  harmonic  classes  or  scales — the  Lydian, 
Phrygian,  Doric,  Meso-Lydian,  Hypo-Lydian,  Ionic  or 
Hypo- Phrygian,  ^Eolic  or  Hypo- Dorian,  Boeotian,  Syn- 
tono-Lydian,  Lokrian  and  Syntono  Lokrian.  This  array 
of  names  gives  an  insight  into  the  great  range  and  detail 
of  ancient  music  to  a  degree  surpassing  all  our  modern 
systems  and  even  the  capacity  of  our  modern  instru- 
ments. 

To  those  who  wish  to  look  further  into  this  matter  one 
may  recommend  the  excellent  articles  in  Smith's  Dic- 
tionary of  Antiquities  (latest  edition),  Muller's  "  Hand- 
buch  der  klasaischen  Alterthumswissenachaft,"  Vol.  II 
(second  edition),  Westphal's  " Die  Musik  der  alten  Qriech- 
en,"  and  Gevaert's  "  Histoire  et  Theorie  de  la  Musique 
de  V  Antiquite."  For  the  new  Hymn  to  Apollo  see  the 
latest  French  School  Report  (•'  Bulletin  de  Correspon- 
dence hellenique,"  1893.    Second  half). 

A  practical  suggestion  in  closing.  The  glory  of  hav- 
ing unearthed  these  precious  musical  fragments  at 
Delphi  would  to-day  belong  to  the  American  School  of 
Classical  Studies  at  Athens,  had  the  $80,000  necessary 
for  the  Delphi  excavations  been  raised  in  America  more 
promptly.  Let  the  past  supply  lesbons  for  the  present. 
The  American  School  has  just  received  the  privilege 
from  the  Greek  Government  of  excavating  the  northern 
slope  of  the  Acropolis  at  Athens,  where  the  most  impor- 
tant public  buildings  of  the  ancient  city  are  undoubtedly 
buried  under  fifty  feet  of  earth.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that 
the  friends  of  classical  learning  and  culture  in  America 
will  be  more  prompt  this  time  with  their  subscriptions. 

For  the  facts  given  above  we  are  indebted  to  Deme- 
trius Kalopothakes,  Ph.D.,  Lecturer  on  History  in  the 
National  University  of  Athens.  An  early  announcement 
of  the  discovery  should  be  put  to  the  credit  of  Professor 
Manatt  in  The  Brown  Magazine  for  April. 


PHILLIPS  BFOOKS  AND 
PULPIT. 


THE  MODERN 


O 

I 

6 


Of  Phillips  Brooks  it  can  be  said,  more 
truthfully  than  of  any  other  clergyman  of 
his  generation  enjoying  anything  like  his 
fame,  that  his  career  and  success  were  those 
of  a  preacher.  In  an  age  when  it  is  uni- 
versally agreed  that  the  pulpit  has  declin- 
ed, he  was  able  to  attain  in  it  an  eminence 
and  a  power  as  great  as  any  man  could 
desire.  Such  a  figure  as  his  in  the  Chris- 
tian pulpit  of  the  last  half  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  may  well  give  pause  to 
those  who  are  affirming  that  modern  con- 
ditions have  for  ever  broken  the  power  of 
the  old-time  preacher.  To  those,  on  the 
other  hand,  who  say  that  modern  conditions 
are  all  wrong,  and  that  the  thing  to  do  is, 
with  Cardinal  Newman,  to  wish  that  the 
world  might  again  become  bigoted  and 
superstitious,  so  that  religion  and  its  offi- 
cial expounders  might  be  restored  to  their 
old  place — to  such  bewailers  of  the  good 
oid  times  the  career  of  Phillips  Brooks  in 
the  better  new  times  ought  also  to  fur- 
nish food  for  thought     They  ought  to  be 


led  by  it  to  ask  themselves  whether  the 
wise  way  is  to  seek  in  vain  to  bring  back 
what  is  now  in  the  irrevocable  past,  or  to 
adjust  themselves  to  the  present. 

This  is  what  Brooks  did.  He  furnish- 
es no  proof  whatever  that  an  old-time 
preacher  can  flourish  under  modern  con- 
ditions as  well  as  a  century  ago,  for  the 
simple  reason  that  he  was  not  an  old-time 
preacher.  Whatever  genius  he  had,  lay  in 
his  perception  that  the  men  of  his  genera- 
tion can  no  longer  be  reached  by  the 
methods  of  the  past,  and  in  his  power  to 
fpeak  the  language  of  the  present.  His 
example  does  not  show  that  it  is  still  pos- 
sible for  the  pulpit  to  hold  its  old  place, 
but  only  that  it  is  still  possible  for  the  pul- 
pit to  make  for  itself  a  new  place.  How 
that  new  place  can  be  made  may  be  se€n 
by  a  glance  at  some  of  the  qualities  which 
gave  Phillips  Brooks  his  influence. 

His  liberality  was  sincere  and  boundless. 
It  did  not  consist,  as  in  too  many  cases, 
of  a  grudging  recognition  of  the  fact  that 
opinion  can  no  longer  be  controlled  by 
ecclesiastical  or  civil  law,  and  so  find  its 
main  expression  in  calling  freedom  of 
thought  freedom  to  damn  yourself  by 
false  beliefs.  Nor  was  his  liberality  mere 
indifference,  as  if  all  truth  were  pretty 
doubtful  anyhow,  and  all  you  had  to  do 
was  to  choose  your  party  or  your  church 
and  then  stick  to  it.  His  convictions  were 
profound  and  intense,  but  so,  he  clearly 
saw,  might  be  other  men's  who  differed 
from  him.  His  method,  therefore,  was 
not  to  denounce  others,  or  to  seek  to  im- 
pose his  beliefs  on  them,  but  to  join 
hands  with  all  earnest  men  everywhere 
in  the  search  for  truth  and  righteous- 
ness. 

Obviously  such  a  man  could  have  no 
sympathy  with  anything  that  was  merely 
sacerdotal.  The  forms  and  conventions  of 
his  church  he  used  with  ease,  and  doubt- 
less with  pleasure,  as  Emerson  said  that  a 
man  of  native  strength  and  skill  of  han- 
dling could  succeed  even  under  the  oldest 
and  mouldiest  conventions ;  but  when  men 
attempted  to  bind  him  with  them  he  snap 
ped  them  as  Samson  did  his  green  withes. 
Professional  airs  and  priestly  assumptions 
were  abhorrent  to  him.  He  was  always 
horrifying  the  "unco  guid"  of  his  own 
denomination  by  his  carelessness  of  cleri- 
cal privilege,  and  by  the  frank  terms  of 
equality  on  which  he  placed  himself  with 
all  honest  and  benevolent  men.  Even  the 
robes  of  a  bishop  could  not  make  an  eccle- 
siastic out  of  him,  and  only  a  few  weeks 
ago  a  fellow- bishop,  whom  it  is  charity 
not  now  to  name,  published  a  long  protest 
to  the  Church  at  large  against  the  scan- 
dalous conduct  of  Phillips  Brooks,  an  Epis- 
copalian bishop,  in  consorting  with  Con- 
gregational publicans  and  Unitarian  sin- 
ners. 


136 

Of  still  more  importance  in  securing 
him  his  sway  over  men  was  the  perfect 
sincerity  which  always  marked  his  bear- 
ing and  his  speech.  He  never  gave  the 
impression  of  keeping  back  anything,  of 
"looking  this  objection  full  in  the  face," 
as  a  preacher  said  once  in  unconscious  con- 
fession, "and  passing  by  on  the  other  side." 
It  is  not  probable  that  he  was  a  great  stu 
dent,  or  deeply  read,  but  he  knew  what 
men  were  thinking  of,  and  he  had  the 
gift  of  speaking  to  their  real  and 
present  needs.  Religion  was  in  him  near 
to  Matthew  Arnold's  famous  definition  of 
it  as  "morality  touched  with  emotion," 
and  his  greatest  flights  as  a  preacher  were 
those  in  which  he  glorified  the  common 
round  and  daily  task  of  mortals  with  the 
light  of  eternal  principles  and  hopes.  Wall 
Street  crowding  Trinity  Church  at  noon- 
day meetings  for  a  week  to  hear  Phillips 
Brooks  speak  on  righteousness  and  truth 
and  judgment  gave  striking  testimony  to 
the  power  of  his  honesty  and  manly  faith. 

His  life  proves,  in  short,  that  if  the  pul- 
pit has  declined,  the  trouble  is  with  the 
pulpit  and  not  with  the  times.  It  is  a 
great  mistake  to  suppose  that  the  oppor 
tunity  of  the  preacher  has  passed  or  is 
rapidly  passing.  What  has  passed  is  the 
notion  that  a  sermon,  as  such,  is  a  chan- 
nel of  grace;  that  an  illogical  harangue 
is  not  an  illogical  harangue  when  de- 
livered from  the  pulpit  ;  that  a  man 
whom  his  college  mates  know  to  be  of 
no  more  than  average  ability  becomes 
suddenly  endowed  with  supernatural  wis 
dom  and  authority  upon  entering  the 
ministry.  All  that  is  dead  and  gone.  But 
what  has  not  gone,  what  will  never  go  as 
long  as  human  nature  remains  what  it  is, 
is  the  willingness  of  men  to  hear  gladly 
the  preacher  who  can  put  an  ideal  in- 
terpretation upon  their  lives,  and  quicken 
all  their  nobler  aspirations,  and  strength- 
en them  in  all  their  worthier  resolvea 
For  such  a  preacher  the  time  is  always 
ripe,  and  for  lack  of  him  too  many  churches 
are  in  the  condition  of  the  one  where  Car- 
lyle  went  to  hear  Sterling  preach — where, 
he  said,  it  would  be  possible  to  let  off  a 
musket  in  any  direction  without  danger  of 
hitting  an  auditor.  Phillips  Brooks  has  no 
better  lesson  to  teach  the  ministry  of  to  day 
— and  he  was  emphatically  a  preacher's 
preacher — than  the  lesson  that  the  surest 
way  to  reestablish  the  pulpit  in  the  respect 
and  affection  of  the  people  is  to  make  it 
tolerant,  unaffected,  progressive,  and, 
above  all,  transparently  honest. 


The  latf.  Mr?,.  Theodore  Parker. — The 
widow  of  Theodore  Parker  died  in  Boston  on 
Saturday  night,  April  16.  She  was  almost 
seventy  years  old,  and  had  for  some  time  been 
in  delicate  health.  A  ycaror  more  ago  she  was 
injured   by  a  carriage  accident,  from  the  effects 


of  which  she  had  never  fully  recovered.  Since 
the  death  of  her  husband  in  i860  she  has  lived 
a  very  retired  life,  her  name  seldom  appearing 
before  the  public  ;  and  of  late  years  she  has  been 
known  intimately  to  a  comparatively  small 
circle.  She  was  connected  with  old  Boston 
families.  She  was  highly  cultivated,  said  to  be 
something  of  a  linguist,  and  accomplished  in 
many  ways.  Pleasant  reference  is  made  to  her 
in  Weiss  life  of  Parker,  and  some  of  her  letters 
are  there  quoted.  She  was  devoted  to  her  hus- 
band, and  was  his  companion  and  helpmeet. 
She  had  maintained  some  honorary  connection 
with  the  remnant  of  Parker's  society  which 
established  the  Parker  memorial,  but  did  not 
take  any  active  part  in  it. — N.  Y.  Evening  Post. 


Motley  AND  Prescott.— The  Boston  Herald, 
writing  of  distinguished  authors  whose  earlier 
works  were  rejected  by  publishers,  names  Car- 
lyl ■:,  Thackeray,  Kinglake  and  Anthony  Trol- 
lopc  as  having  passed  through  that  pleasant 
ordeal.  It  also  mentions  that  John  Lothrop 
Motley  underwent  the  humiliation  of  receiving 
his  manuscript  of  "The  Rise  of  the  Dutch 
Republic"  back  from  the  famous  publisher 
John  Murray,  of  London,  with  thanks  and 
complimf-nts.  But  his  first  disappointment 
was  when,  after  he  had  spent  several  years  in 
the  collection  of  the  material  and  sketching 
and  laying  out  his  work,  he  heard  that  Pres- 
cott was  preparing  a  "History  of  Philip  II." 
Motley  was  almost  crushed  by  the  news.  He 
felt  that,  he  would  have  to  renounce  forever 
a  long-cherished  idea,  and  probably  give  up 
his  career  as  author.  He  had  long  had  the 
Intention  of  writing  some  kind  of  a  history, 
making  the  choice  of  subject  a  second  thought  ; 
but  this  subject  had  attracted  him,  and  he  was 
absorbed  in  it.  He  felt  the  necessity  to  write 
the  book  over  which  he  had  thought  60  much, 
but  no  disposition  to  write  on  another  subject. 
He  went  to  Prescott,  and  frankly  explained  his 
position.  Prescott  treated  Motley  in  the  same 
noble  spirit  with  which  Scott  had  treated 
Robert  Chambers  on  a  similar  occasion,  and 
encouraged  and  supported  him  in  every  pos- 
sible manner.     Had  the  result  of  the  Interview 


been    otherwise.    Motley   said    that    he    would 
have  laid  aside  his  pen  forever. 

Longfellow's  First  Pokm.  —  When  our 
great  poet  was  nine  years  old,  his  master 
wanted  him  to  write  a  "  composition."  Little 
Henry,  like  all  children,  shrank  from  the  un- 
dertaking.     His  master  said  ; 

"  You  can  write  words,  can  you  not  ?'" 

"  Yes,"  was  the  reply. 

"  Then  you  can  put  words  together?" 

"  Yes,  sir." 

"Then,"  said  the  master,  "you  may  take 
your  slate  and  go  out  behind  the  school-house, 
and  there  you  can  find  something  to  write 
about,  and  then  you  can  tell  what  it  is,  what  it 
is  for,  and  what  is  to  be  done  with  it,  and  that 
will  be  a  composition." 

Henry  took  his  slate  and  went  out.  He  went 
behind  Mr.  Finney's  barn,  which  chanced  to  be 
near  by,  and  seeing  a  fine  turnip  growing  up, 
he  thought  he  knew  what  that  was,  what  it  •v.-i  - 
for,  and  what  would  be  done  with  it.  A  hali 
hour  had  been  allowed  to  Henry  for  his  firs: 
undertaking  in  writing  compositions.  In  a 
half  hour  he  carried  in  his  work,  all  accom- 
plished, and  the  master  is  said  to  have  been 
affected  almost  to  tears  when  he  saw  what 
little  Henry  had  done  in  that  short  time. 


THEPaETOFGtfO'MLIFE/ 

John  G.  TVkiTUer  Is  so  Termed 
by  Bev.  L.  JL.  Banks. 

Jlis  True  PUtuie«  of  N«"iv  Euslaua 
I.lfL-neV.  *.  t.  Jtexfor.i  «»J«  11»* 
Dnitltor  VeraeOUaUer  tVa*  the  Friend 
«f  MantitiMl— Ilia  Effort*  «>•  Betwlf 
«t  ^%«.i.-.-.u  Sttffr:i|r«v 

':.  I»r  !.  »..  Hat:»  i"  lcriia.y  inorniiMR 
-.:■  i\  .•  .  . •?  t •  ■•!* - 1.   ripiscopal  Church, 

•ieli?ur?<r  ■ .  •■  i  in  ^  series  of  three  dts- 
courses  on  ii"  iifeworkoi  tlie  l'oet  V\  hit- 
tier  his  special  theme  being  "Whittior,  the 
l'oet  of  New  England  Homo  Life.'"  He 
1  ebose  for  Lis  text :  "Who  prophesied  with 
ft  harp."    I.  Chronicles  xxv.,  3. 

lie  said  in  part:  David, the  poet-kiss:.  had 
as  a  department  of  -government  a  company 
of  sweet  Binders,  who  were  gifted  with  the 
prophetic  soirit.  ami  who  voiced  their  mes- 
sage in  song.  We  come  to  stud y  the  work  of 
a  prophet  tout,  who  voiced  the  thought  and 
feeling  and  sentiment  of  the  common 
home  life  in  New  England  perhaps  better 
than  any  one  else,  not  from  pulpit  or  altar. 
Lnt  from  sweet.  incloJIous  harp. 

w'hiuier  was  a  son  of  the  soil,  like  Amos, 
who  was  called  from  among  the  herdsmen 
nnil  from  dressing  sycamore  trees,  or 
Flishi.  from  his  oxen  and  his  ploutf >'.  lor 
Whittier  to  sing  of  New  England  homenfe 
was-onlv  to  ronut  his  own  pulsebeats,  for 
its  music  was  in  Ms  very  blood.  H>s  was 
!>oru  in  one  of  the  "sweet  homes"  that 
"nestle  in  these  dales," 

"Ami  perch  along  ttese  wooded  twetla, 

An.l,  i.lest  bevnn<l  A  read  Ian  mm. 

I  liey  !inr  the  sound  of  Sabbatu  bell*. 

Here  dwells  no  i*n*v;  man  sublime. 

>or  noiiiin  wlnte.1  beiore  her  time; 

Unt.  wji h  the  (suits  nn.i  follies  of  the  race, 

Old    homebred  virtues  hold    Uieir   not   unl>ouored 

plaee." 

He  was  his  own  "barefoot  boy"  of  his 
later  song,  who 

•<  Wju  i  wta  in"  flowed*  and  trees. 
Humming  birds  «nd  honey  l>e*»." 

No  one  born  out  of  New  England  •ul't 
ever  hare  sung  the  »ong  of  "Th*  Pumpkin" 
with  so  much  delicacy  and  pathos. 

Who  could  sing  about  the  old  New  Y.ng 
land  cobbler's  bench  like  the  Ik»t  who 
earned  iris  first  schooling  through  long 
winter's  toil  making  stuns?  Never  out  oi 
his  memory  wasjost  the  vrsion  of  the  shoe- 
nttker 


187 

ns  hare  Jell  and   understood   in  ttw  last 

verse:  ■> 

"lie  lire*  to  learn,  in  life  •  hard  school, 
flow  few  who  put  above  him 
Lament  their  triumph,  and  hit  lots. 
Like  her— betauae  they  km  him." 


'Upon  hi»  cobbler's  form, 
V.'l'li 


»  pan  of  coals  on  either  baud 
To  keep  nu  wax  euda  wins, 

Ami  there,  tn  th*  RoUlan  weather, 

lie  (tlu-hed  awl  hammered  and  snne  ; 
In  the  brook  In  inobrtenert  bis  Isttoer, 

In  the  pewter  »qs  hu  tongue." 

No  one  has  told  the  story  of  winter  in  the 
New  England  farmhouse  like  Whittter  in 
•"Snowbound."  How  many  gray  heads  have 
lost  kheir  frost  and  been  boys  and  girls 
again,  as  carried  on  the  current  of  his  song, 
they  have  been 

"Sh„t  in  from  all  the  world  wltboat. 
Via  sattliarJean-wininM  hearth  aioot. 
Content  to  let  the  north  wind  roar. 
In  battled  race  at  pane  and  door. 
While  the  red  loua  before  us  l*at 
Tha  frost  Una  bac*.  w.tb  irop.o  beat 


What  matter  how  the  nlaht  benared 
What  nintter  bow  the  north  wind  raved? 
Hlo-.v  li.eti,  blow  low.  not  all  Its  mow 
Coald  i|iien<-h  onr  hearthBre's  ruddy  glow." 

No  poet  in  our  time,  or  in  en  y  time,  ha* 
brought  out  more  clearly  the  divine  influ- 
ence of  friendship  nnd  love  on  our  every- 
day home  life  than  Whittier.  It  shines  out 
in  the  of i  quoted  poem,  "hi  School  days," 
in  the  face  of  the  little  girl  who  hated  to 
go  above  him. 

"neesatr,  you  ate,  1  love  yon"- « 

And  there  Is  a  deeo  sigh   which  mar.-  of 


A  FRIEND  OF  MANKIND. 

The  Poet  Whistler  as  Seen  by  Hew.  C 
I~  Keiford  of  Hoibnrr 

The  life  and  works  of  the  dead  Poet 
Whittier  furnished  a  theme  for  Rev.  E.  L. 
Rex  ford's  discourse  at  the  Roxbary  Uni- 
versallst  Church  yesterday  morning. 

The  gen  t  lest,  kindest  and  most  amiable 
elements,  said  he,  were  possessed  by  Whit- 
tier.  By  the  children  he  was*  dearly  b%- 
loved.  and  the  same  tender  feeling  went 
out  to  him  from  the  aged.  On  the  whole, 
he  was  a  simple  and  noble  friend  of  man- 
kind. _^ 

Great  ehaiacTeirarer"not  the  products  of 
their  own  age.  Supernatural  qualities  are 
usually  called  in.  Emerson  was  proface<i 
by  saveu  generations  of  noble  ancestry. 
Whittier  was  filled  with  all  good  filial  loy- 
alty, and  he  paid  tribute  to  his  parentage. 
In  the  brotherhood  of  humanity  he  saw  his 
religious  expression. 

his  first  American  ancestors  came  to 
this  country  in  lB3it,  ana  it  was  in  the  sec- 
ond generation  that  Quakerism  was 
adopted.  He  was  born  and  reared  in  a  re- 
ligious society  whose  first  principle  was 
brotherhood.  He  learned  the  meaniug  of 
brotherhood,  and  virtually  said  that  all 
men  were  his  brothers.  From  that  prin- 
ciple he  acted  from  his  birth  until  last 
Wednesday  morning. 

Quaker  though  he  was.  he  saw  that  there 
could  be  no  peace  in  public  life  as  long  as 
slavery  existed.  Whit'ler  lost  no  opportu- 
nity to  thrust  his  tsuce  through  wrongs 
that  predominated  in  this  country.  His 
poems  fairly  burned  with  indignation  wheu 
the  occasion  required*- • 

In  the  Lincoln  campaign  he  made  the 
Quakers  of  Pennsylvania  come  out  to  vote. 
'I his  incident  occasion*!  hia  song.  "The 
Quakers  Are  Out."  It  seems  impossible  to 
us  of  this  generation  that  public  sentiment 
-hould  ha  revolutionized  in  the  life  of  one 
man.  NotonTythe  slave  of  the  South,  but 
tlie  oppressed  of  everywhere  were  near  to 
hi*  heart. 

Just  to  the  red  man.  he  was  also  just  to 
the  women  of  this  country.  For  many 
years  he  has  been  a  prominent  advocate  or 
woman  suffrage  He  has  been  symDatlir ;, 
and  responsive  asa  listener  to  the  uianif^h' 
cries  of  human  distress.  Tbe  heart  treas- 
ure of  childhood  aud  old  age,  Wbittict 
abides  with  all  and  is  loved  by  all. 

A  ntEPONSET  PASTOH'S  TRIBUTE. 

At  the  Apnleton  M.  E,  Chu*ch.  Neponset, 
yesterday  morning,  the  pastor.  Rev.  E.  H. 
Had  lock,  paid  a  brief  tribute  to  the  late 
John  G.  Whittier. 

After  sneaking  briefly  of  the  earlvlife 
and  formative  influences  Drought  to  ben* 
nponthe  younr"  post,  Sir.  Hadlock  dwell 
particularly  u>i  Whittier  as  the  Christian 
poet  of  Amer'x  a.  and  pre-eminently  th»  • 
Christian  poet  o£  New  England. 

As  distinctively*)  Christian  poet.  WBit- 
tier  has  t.i>  peer  among  his  American  col 
leagues.  His  life  was  devoted  to  the  art-: 
vancem'*'*  of  tbe  Redeemer's  kingdom, 
the  uplilri ■■£  of  his  race  and  the  ameliora- 
tion of  t!o  cont'itioa  of  his  countrymen. 
Inoessantir  and  unselfishly  he  toiled  for 
the  glory  o:  <Jod  and  the  welfare  of  men. 
The  speaker  quoted  ser»r*l  selections  from 
Whittier's  poemn,  to  show  the  roligiooi 
4one  of  his  poetry,  among  f>em  a  selection 
fiom  the  latter  p;trt  of  Whittier*s  recent 
tribute  to  Holmes:  ', 

Theho,ii  d-H-vn  nMr.TioVeVdeiayed  and  late, 

Whet:  a' '    ••  »ttrrn>;  vate   • 

We  '.  i-c  th"  words  nntl  worit  we  mil  o*ir  own 

for    n    >ii  fllli  our  :ia*M<v-«of  wul 

Hr'Hiis  I  ■  tua!  ci-'e  n"  Lull; 
■  ciftlesawe  i-oroeto  III  ...  v  bo  all  tu  na-tves,  '     ' 

An  .  ■•    bi  ■    :-"  be.l«v<s," 

Tli^-tva  Vmeneanfpwrt  has  -een  Cod 
wai;'"'*.  :  '  s»»jii  r.:s  heckimme'  haurt.  lias 
nbcre'i  the «.ninmoi»i>,  and  h-s  tro'ie  to  he 
.wUh.hiia.wuotn  .J|ia,.*oa»klqvea,  and-.for 


But  m 

shoe 

l>u- 
^alnedwtnati- 
stthel  more 
16  U  tillftr 


Trfliutcs  or  the  Preachers :^ 
the  Quaker  Poet. 

Rev.     «.    XT  Belt     of     Msrblehead    «» 

"The    Cttaxacter    and     Influence    at 

WlilK!     i"-Bcv.  I.oul*  Albert  Bank* 

o-i  •••. '  llittler,  the  Toet  Reformer," 

— MerruiriaJ  .<l«-r-rleo  In  Melrose. 

Rev.  S.  i  Bell  of  the  First  Conirega- 
tional  Church,  Marblehead,  delivered  **• 
very  interesung  discourse  on  The  Char- 
acter and  luiluence  of  the  Late  John  G. 
Whittier."  at  that  church  J osteraay  initts- 
inc.  - 

Mr.  Bell  took  for  his  text:  Amc*  vli., 
1*.  15,  "I  was  no  prophet,  neither  was"  1  m 
son  of  a  proohet.  but  I  was  a  herdsman,  fad 
a  gatherer  of  sycamore  fruit,  and  tbo  LoroV 
took  me  as  I  followed  the  flock.  a'g4.th« 
Lord  saia  unto  me.  Go:  prophesy,  nan  ins] 
people  of  Israel."  -f-  J    "     ***V>/ 

He  said  in  substance:  "It  was  Whittle*! 
lot  to  know  something  of  tbe  stem  apstoi- 
tions  under  which  tbe  ordinary  «ou I  isedu- 
cated  among  us.  ana  fitted  for  i«s  work  in 
life.  There  was  for  him  no  luxurious  hotne. 
no  splendid  library,  no  schoolo,  el  art'  arm 
of  music  in  which  the  great  poVaiDflrties  ot 
his  nature  might  oe  dever " 
spite  of  his  environment  ha 
distinctive  sighH  of  gepiusA 
tions  to  the  cress  before  be  at 
hood  proved  that  he  was  slot! 
than  the  proohet  Antra  Ok.  T 
of  the  soil.  ^A 

"The  character  of  Whittier  was  always 
charming  aud  attaact^e/  He  waa  one  of 
the  most  sincere  uxen  tors  century  has 
Feen.  His  convictions  were  the  result  of 
his  fine  sense  of  righteousness  and  tha 
ever-abiding  consciousness  of  hla  <iutv^o 
God  and  humanity. 

"The  existence  of  wrong  troubled  his 
soul  and  f  creed  him  to  speak  o*u  wbat  tat 
in  him.  It  was  impossible  for  Was  tcrpw 
false  to  his  better  nature,  and  |o  turn  awajr 
his  ear  from  the  cry  of'  the  •uffetimr  and 
oppressed.  -     ^-v.  •*  •-••     "•    ~    •« '* 

"However,  he  was  resssgkable  for  the 
simplicity  of  his  maimer  And  habits  "of  life. 
He  was  not  spollcd/H>y  fa>te  or  Mattered 
into  6eli-consciousuess  by  -)ijs  eathusiaatrc 
admirers.  The  graces. .  of  nioiestr.  meek- 
ness  and  geniality  ncve>4orsook  hfm."-4  r 

"What  adelight.it  wak  to  see  h  to  in  his 
own  home!  He  sat  jr>  plats  clothingin  a 
small  and  unpretentious  room,  with  eves 
full  of  meaning,  aud  s>»oice  which  In  con- 
versation on  favorite- -themes  often  became) 
as  musical  as  anppling  stream.  Au«1Wt 
was  in  him  Ws  ^ingalar  rtrraw*  «f 
thought  andaJm  isMpnrposa.  Wltatsovrar 
thinirs  made  tot  til*  elevation  of  Issspirft. 
for  the  enrKhnic»,t  of  hl»  soul,  lor  tlie'less- 
ening  of  the- worhVs  burdens  were  Loved 
by  htm  and  V«t-d  -for  the  moulding  and 
shaping  of  hie  -character,  lu  him  that* 
was  no  guile.  He  lived  in  an  atmosphare 
of  ?aiainiie«s  all  his  days  and  Was  truiy  m 
man  after  God's  own  heart. 

He  was  unquestionably  a  great  poet, 
though  by  no  means  the  greatest  of  Ameri- 
can poet*,  tie  had  not  the  tleep  and  mea- 
sured cdtlencwof  liryant.  who  not  seldom 
reminds^as  of  ono  or  the  old  psalintsts.  He 
had  not  tlibwhnble  fancy  and  subtlb  power 
of  touchlmr  the  common  Which  aro  so  con- 
spicuous in  rho  lines  of  Longfellow.  He 
hadnot  theelear  insight  and  virile  movo- 
ment.  tbo  "reative  force  and  wealth  of  al- 
lusion, and  the  classic  elegance  and  perfect 
grace  of  I.otveJl.  r" 

"Bat  he  had  to  a  marvllous  degree  the* 
lvrlc  (juality  of  Burns.  When  tfio  inspira- 
tion, was  apouhim.  the  vorses  came  spenta- 
neouSi}"-  al"l  theirr>thm  was  of  the  high- 
est or. lev  He  had  such  buoyancy  and  en- 
ergy, and  ^consciousness' of  rtlctl9B-and 
sublimity  of  thought,  such  srvveetand  beau- 
tiful ideals,  that  ho  earned  his  readers 
along  with  him  with  ever  increasiug  ad- 
miration  nnd  pleasure.  Under  the  spell 
of  his  gvnins  they  forgot  his  errors- of  gram 
mar,  his rm<t ikes- m  accent,  his  to*  fre- 
oucnt  repel  ir.ion  of  ideas,  his  strait. ed  moral 
observations. 

"Cut  ins  i>oetry  is  fall  of  the  noblest  mor- 
al U'»i'h mg.  Gou  is  to  hiut  the  Kather  of 
the  human  rare:  all  inem  ars  bretliren:th* 


universe- n  the  symbol  of  the  Divine  pres- 
ence ami  energy.  ■  U port  the>>u  three  preg- 
nant ana  thoroughly- scriptural  ideas  he 
constantly  dwelt  hi  his  meditative-  hours 
and"  in  tiis  mwiiciits  of  rapturous  so  ;g. 

"And  now  he  lias  couc  to  his  rew.trd.  We 
shall  not  look  upon  ni*  liite  again.  But  we 
are  uiifeUrriecUy  thankful  for  the  blessing* 
he  has  left  us.  and  .  we-shall  etidenvur  to 
acqurre  bis  Christ-like  temper' and  the 
splendid  charity  of  his  words  aad  deeds." 

REV.   L.  A.  BANKS  ON  WHITTIER. 

Yesterday  rnornirrc.  in  Oru'co  Church,  on 
Temolo  street.  Rev.  lit.  I.ouis  Albert  Banks 
delivered  the  second'  of  a  series  of  three 
discourses  on  Whittier.  tiis  subject  beinz 
"Whittier— the  Poet— Keforuv.-r." 

He  said  in  part:  William  Lloyd  Garrison 
was  AVhittier's  Elijah.  He  found  him  a 
iarofooted  young  laci  who  had  had  the 
slightest  possible  opportunities  for  educa- 
tion, and  whose  only  acquaintance  with 
books  was  con  lined  to  »  library  ot  20  vol 
times,  and  a  stray  cony  of  Burns'  poems, 
borrowed  from  a  podler.  It  was  <  Harrison's 
kindly  sympathy  :md  Keen  appreciation  of 
the  abilities  indicated  by  AVhittier's  early 
verses  that  inspired  in  his  heart  a  ^termi- 
nation to  have  a  better  odtrcation.  and  to 
fit  himself  to  take  an  earnest  pari  in  the 
work  of  reform. 

It  is  not  bard  to  understand  how  a  strong-. 
magnetic  nature  lixe  Garrison'*,  all  aglow 
with  his  undyiug  love  for  humanity  and 
hatred  of  oepre*siou,  should  "nave  moulded 
the  sby  young  Quaker  into  a  living  engine 
of  "reform.  In  those  early  days  of  the  anti- 
slavery  agitation,  no*  message  rase  out 
with  a  troer*note  in  behalf  of  "Ainaricaus 
to  market  driven,  and  bartered  as  the  orate 
for  gold'."  than  AYhitticr's. 
.  Some  of  his  lines  rev'M  Img  the  heartless- 
ness  of  slavery's  disregard  for  the  rights  ot 
humanity  intent  easily  be  aoolied.  without 
change,  t  >  coDditlrxns  that  exist  all  too 
oft«u  among  ns  today. 

AVhitrier  did  not  cease  to  be  a  reformer 
when  sin  very  was  overthrowii.  Oppression 
anvwhere  aroused  his  indignation  and 
compelled  his  sympathy.  He  was  a  warn! 
friend  of  eaual  rictus  tor  women,  had  the 
most  hearty  sympathy  for  the  temperance 
cause,  and  was  ever  ready  with  voice  ana 
pen  to  defend  the  Indian,  the  prisoner!**- 
debt  or  any  ouo  fctjont  whose  head  ui5 
fortune  gatherer 


WriiTTitR'S    FUNE8/ 


*u 


Qui -J./     Bolemniaed    Beneatli 
cho /Trees. 

Thousands  View  the  Honored  Poct'<; 
Remains. 

fern  ia.\  i-RsrATCit  to -rni  TnANstnirT.l 

AMKiiBttRY,  Sept  10,  The.  trensn  mist  that 
hnng  oyer  Amcsbnry  like  ai  damp  pall  early 
this  morning  was  In  harmony,  with  the  stillness 
and  aombreness  with  wlfick  everyone  was  im- 
pressed in  tho  presence  of  'the  great  sorrow  felt 
all  the  more  Intonsoly  as.  the  neur  approached 
for  the  bnrlal  of  tho  (treat  poet  and  philan- 
thropist, John  Oreerrleaf  Whittier.  Tho 
Mystery  of  death  w%s  typified  by  the  shifting 
and  elusive  shadows  oVthe  fog;  and  the  glory 
and  hopefulness  of  the*.resi?rrectlon  was  illus- 
trated b7  the  brigntWa)-m  rays  of  the  son  that 
came  with  the  grnwlntr'of  day. 

Although  the  time  when  the  friends  of  the 
dead  poet  wero  to  biVe  an '  opportunity  of  tak- 
4ng  a  last  look  at  hlwace  was  arranged  for  be- 
tween the  hours  eltdn  and  two,  by  9.30  o'clock 
earnest  reqna*ts\-atne  from  immediate  friends 
and  neighbors  fit'  Judge  Cate,  on  Friend 
Street,  where  tb«  remains  lay.  for  an 
opportunity  "lo^  view  them  before  the 
appointed  tlme.Stnd  from,  then  until  the 
hour  for  ri»*»  funeral  there  was  a  continuous 


138 

bnmnn  stidain  passing  through  the  house! 
For  the  first  tw«  or  three  hours  or  until  the 
arrival  of  tho  trains  from  Boston  the  callers 
were  confined  principally  to  people  of  Ames- 
bury.  One  lady  brought  with  her  an  offering  of 
fringed  gentian— Mr.  Whlttler's  favorite  flower- 
rare  at  this  season  of  the  year,  which  was 
placed  on  the  coffin.-  The  funeral  arrangements 
were  under  the  charge  of  William  Lloyd  Garri- 
son. Jr.,  Jndce  Cate  and  8.  T.  Paekard.iedftor  of 
tho  Portland  Transcript,  whose  wife  is  a  nelce 
of  Mr.  Whittier.  They  courteously  gave  visit- 
ors an  opportunity  to  view  the  modest 
Bttle  study  of  the  -  poet,  where  most 
of  his  literary  work  was  done.  At  the 
window  looking  out  i  upon  the  garden 
•haded  with  fruit  trees  and  beautified  with  a 
wreat  bed  of  hydrangeas  is  the  little  round 
table  he  used  for  a  desk.  Shelves  set  into  a 
niche  In  the  wall  contain  a  small  library  of 
carefully-selected  books.  On  the  walls  are  a 
few  engravings  and  the  photographs  of  rela- 
tives and  friends. .  An  open  stove  gave  a 
oheerful  glow  and  ■  ■  combined  with  the 
.furnace  In  affording  beat  in  the  winter. 
Tli"  rest  of  the  furnishings  are  equally  simple 
and  unpretentious.  Letters  and  despatches  were 
being  constantly  received  from  friends  far  and 
near  who  werer'wfiable  to  he  present  in  person. 
Among  the  first  was  one  from  the  author  of 
"Uncle  Tom's  Cabin."  who  wrote  as  follows: 

.  Hartford.  Sept,  8,  1002. 
1  Dear  Friend—  Let  me  thank  you  for  your  kind 
remembrance  of  me.  In  communication  with 
our  mutual  friend,  I  bad  already  learned  from 
the  papers  of  the  going  home  ot  nls  pure  spirit. 
To  such  as  he  the  transition  from  this  world  to 
the  next  Is  but  slight.  It  would  be  selfish  to 
.sorrow.  Ours  Is  the  loss  and  his  the  eternal 
gain.  I  wish  I  might  send  a  fitting  tribute,  bat 
my  days  are  almost  numbered  and  bit  pen 
halts  In  my  hand.  His  own  beautiful,  solemn 
words  come  to  me  now : 
The  honr  draws  near,  howe'er  delayed  and  late 

When  at  the  Eternal  Gate 
We  leave  the  words  and  works  we  call  our  own 

And  lift  our  hands  alone. 
For  Love  to  fill  our  nakedness  of  soul, 

It  will  not  he  possible  for  me  to  be  present  In 
person  on  Saturday.    But  I  will  be  with  yem  In 
■pint.    With  truest  sympathy,  I  am 
Sincerely  yours. 
Harriet  Bekcjtrr  Btowk. 

Grace  Greenwood  wrote  from  Nutley,  Now 
Jersey: 

"Mr$.  Or.rtrv.df  Cartland.  Dear  Friend— I  am' 
quite  overcome  with  the  shock-  and  sorrow  of 
our  great  friend's  deatb.  •  "  •  I  have  been 
hoping  and  wishing  to  go  I  on  to 
Massachusetts  and  New  Hampshire 
with  the  hope  of  seeing  my  noble 
beloved  friend  once  more.  Indeed,  that  was 
mr  chief  object  when  I  left  home,  to  see  him 
who  has  for  many  years  been  to  me  the  moat 
dear  and  venerated  of  men.  You  can  under- 
stand how  It  seemed  to  me  when  I  awoke  this 
morning  and  realized  that  be  had  gone.  *   •    • 

The  following  despatches  were  received : 
Bah  Harbor,  Mr,  Sept.  0, 1892. 

Hon.  Geo.  W.  Cate— I  had  hoped  to  be  present 
at  Mr.  Whlttler's  burial,  but  it  Is  Impossible.  I 
feel  sad.  Indeed,  to  think  I  shall  see  him  no 
more.  I  have  long  regarded  htm  with  affec- 
tionate veneration.  Jakcr  G.  Blaiitb. 
Washinotoh,  D.  O.,  Sept  10.  1803. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  W.  Cartland— The  death  of 
Jobn  G.  Whittier  touches  mo  deeply,  but  the 
severe  loss  is  softened  with  thankfulness  that 
he  lived  to  witness  the  triumph  of  the  eause  ho 
loved  and  served  so  well.  Emancipated  mil- 
lions will  hold  his  memory  sacred. 

Frbobrick  Douglass. 

Remembrances  In  tho  form  of  flowers,  ar- 
ranged In  elaborate  and  artistic  designs,  began 
arriving  early.  Sarah  Orne  Jewett  sent  an  Ivy 
wr-;Uh ;  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps  Ward,  a  large 
bore-net;  Mrs.  Daniel  Lothrop,  widow  of  the 
publisher,  of  Concord,  a  bunch  of  White  lilies 
and  smilax.  lied  with  a  broad  satin  ribbon,  on 
whteh  wns  inscribed  "In  Memory  of  John  G. 
Whittier"  on  one  end,  a  verse  of  poetry  on  the 
other:  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  a  large  wreath 
of  white  roses  and  smilax ;  Houghton,  Mifflin  8t 
'Co..  a  wreath  of  roses;  Mrs.  Lyman  of  JamAlca 
Plain,  sister  of  T.  Jefferson  GooUdge,  roses  and 
■ntilaxi 


Other  despatches  and  letters  were  received 
from  Ira  I.  Coolbraitu  ot  Oakland,  Cal..  J.  J, 
Brown  of  Newbury  port.  Alphens  H  Love,  pros 
ldent  of  the  Universal  Peace  Union,  Philadel- 
phia, Hon.  John  D.  Long,  Hon.  J.  P.  Coggswell 
of  Salem.  Anson  Titus  of  Natick.  Hon.  R.  T. 
Davis  of  Fall  River,  Cella  Thaxtef, 

Among  those  present  were  General  O.  O, 
Howard,  Edna  Dean  Proctor,  Miss  Harriet  Mo> 
Elwln  Kimball,  Colonel  Henry  I..  Hlgginson, 
William  Endlcott,  Jr.,  Jolm  C.  Hopes.  General 
Thomas  Sherwin,  Hon.  H.  S.  Rice,  Colonel  Rice. 
Hon.  Edward  L  Pierce  and  wife,  ex-Govornor 
Clafllii.  Hon.  Henry  Cabot  Lodge.  Francis  J. 
Garrison,  Hon.  William  Lloyd  Garrison, 
Robert  Treat  Paine,  president  of  the 
American  Peace  Society,  of  which  Mr. 
Whittier  was  vice  -  president.  John  W. 
Hutchinson,  one  of  the  famous  Hutchinson 
family,  and  bis  sister,  Mrs.  Ludlow  Patten  of 
New  York,  the  famous  Abolition  singers,  Judge 
des  Drisay  of  Brldcwater,  N.  S..  S.  B.  White  ot 
Brooklyn,  Edward  Clarence  ^tedmnn  of  New 
York.  Cbarleti  C.  Coftln,  Mrs.  Kar-iet  Prescotf 
BpofTord.  James  W.  Forbes.  II.  O.  Houghton, 
Colonel  J.  C.  Frankle.  a  delegation  of  ten 
members  from  the  Loyal  Legion,  Samuel  May, 
Parker  Plllsbury,  W.  P.  Blossom.  Professor 
Palmer  and  wife,  Mrs.  Caroline  H,  Dall, 
Pranees  II.  Underwood,  Mayor  Rantoul  of  Pa- 
lem,  F.  K.  Avery.  Thorms.  R.  Fitcfe,  Attorney 
General  Pii'sbury. 

vTbo  l^<MraloJromiiavei3till  Drought  twenty 
-  ol  the  city  'lovernment  headed  by 
i  Xi  nmas  E.  ;;nrnbam'  and  the  Whittier 
i  lull,  c,i  which  (i  rzr>  i!.  Howe  is  nrMltfent 
ai ■•■  i.iny  ladies  members.  They  marched 
ti  .  rli  tlinstrnoli  In  double  file  to  the  bouse, 
ras  onglrnill"  intenc-ed  to  bold  the  simple 
•ices  in  tho  Friends'  i  iset'i-  ;:  ise,  but 
early  this  morning  the  weather  Was  sn  nrornls- 
iii  „-  pi  *  bright  and  beautiful  dav  H  •'  ss  decided 
to  allow  thn  remains  to  rest  in  the  lionM  until 
tho  hour  «,f  intorinelit,  and  say  the*  few  words 
of  consolation  and  eulogy  in  the  little 
garden  bo  loved  so  well.  Chairs  and  settees 
wero  arranged  under  the  trees  and  from  a  low 
Improvised  platform,  those  who  were  moved 
by  the  spirit  to  speak,  addressed  the  assembled 
mourners.  Although  the  services  were  In  strict 
accordance  with  tho  custom  of  the  Friends,  tew 
among  those  present  wore  thn  garb  of  members 
of  that  faith. 

Tho  Interment  was  in  the  lot  In  that  part  ot 
the  Union  -  Cemetery  used  by  the  Friends  In 
which  the  Whittier  family  are  buried.  The 
grounds  are  large,  bnt  modestly  laid  out.  They 
are  situated  at  what  is  known  as  Bart- 
lett'g  Corner,  abont  three-quarters  of  a 
mile  from  Amesbury.  off  Main  street  on 
the  Haynrhill  road.  Many  Union  sol. 
diers  are  buried  there.  Tho  members, 
ot  Mr.  Whlttler's  family  who  rest  In  the  lot  are 
John  Whittier.  Who  died  Jane  11,  1831.  s**4 
70.  his  father:  Abigail  Whittier,  died  Dec  91. 
18.17,  aged  77  years,  his.  mother:  Moses 
Whittier.  an  uncle,  who  died  Jan.  33.  1834, 
aged  CI  years;  Mercy  E.  Hnssey,  an  aunt, 
died  April  14, 184G;  Mary  W.  Caldwell,  a  sister, 
died  Jan.  7, 1881.  aged  sixty-fonri  Elieabeio  H, 
Whittier.  a  sister,  died  Sept.  8,  1804,  forty- 
eight  years  old,  and  Matthew  Franklin  Whit- 
tier, who  died  Jan.  7, 1883.  The  whole  lot  was 
covered  with  evergreens  whioh  hid  from  sight 
the  earth  taken  from  the  grave.  The  casket 
was  lowered  into  a  brick  vanlt  bvllt  just  largo 
enough  to  contain  It  The  vault  will  be  closed 
by  an  arched  brick  roof. 

Memorial  Services  In  Salem. 
Memorial  exercises  were  held  today  in  all 
the  publlo  schools  of  Salem.  The  exercises 
consisted  chiefly  ot  the  reading  of  Whlttler's 
favorite  poems.  At  the  Phillips  School  a  draped 
'crayon  portrait  of  the  dead  poet  was  hang  in 
the  school  room.  It  was  surrounded  by  flowers, 
the  gift  of  the  pupils.  Placed  Jn  the  frame  ot 
the  pictnre  was  an  autograph  latter  written  by 
Whittier  to  the  pupils  of  the  school  on  the  oe- 


niton  of a  reunion  last  spring.  ' 

Moarned  In  Dunrt 

Thle  afternoon,  la  Danvera,  tervtoes  In  which 
the  school  children  took  a  prominent  part,  were 
held  In  the  Town  Hall.  Place  wore  at  half- 
staff  and  all  the  ehoreh  belts  In  town  wore 
tolled  at  half-paat  two  o'clock. 

The  programme  of  exeroUe-  waa  aa  follows: 
Reading  of  scripture,  Rer.  J.  W.  Hy Je :  prayer. 
Ret.  A.  P.  Putnam ;  hymns  by  Mr.  Whittler,  by 
■elect  ehotr;  address,  Hon,  Alden  P.  WhlUi 
"Our  Offerin*."  written  for  the  ohlldren  by 
Harriet  P.  Fowler;  eefootions  from  Mr.  Wblt- 
tier's  poems,  read  by  pnptti  of  the  pnbllo 
sohoolsi  address.  Rer.  W.  H.  Trickey ;  "Ameri- 
ca," tup*  by  eohool  children;  benediction,  Ret. 
Edw.  C.  Ewtaff. 

MrWblttier  was  much  beloved  In  Dan  vers, 
where  for  many  yean  ha  spent  much  of  bit 
time  at  hU  beautiful  boa*  "Oakinclk* 


•jh. .  w  ■:•  uz?:s  JtrJrsRAL.^ 

SI  ,    I.  .,       •,-•■■•■:..    Vriehea  TOre 

'"..- :V- '.  ■•.■--   .  :  .  V  .  Anson  Titns.J 

Mr.  '  >,'vu\    i      :.  ■    will   make?    ibis 

•      ..•        Mi  i*  :i. ,       -;:   ..i;  a  my  fuuerai 
'■■■,    .,  lid'  etod    ii     M»o    plan    and 

qu    ,  way     <■    thi   •■••    ety    of    Friends. 

tv.tii  wiiich  j  am  •"•  'i  i  .-.*.'... i  aot  only  by 

birth:  ;■:!)..  I>nt  •  ■•"  -  a  settle'!  >  ""- 
vietion  of  the  ■  •.;:  ts  (inaoiplps  and 
tho  Impor:  iii  ■  nie-.' 

Thin  wish  >>r  y.i     \  '  *    w  .j    fit- 

tingly respected.  Tin  :,...oral  Kcrvioos 
were  most  appropriate)  to  tlio  man.  Mr. 
Whittler  wu  a  Fricad,  a  loyal  and' 
devotea  adherent  to  the  fuitl\  of  hit 
ancestors.  "The  plain  anu  quicv  way'' 
was  his.  and  his  only  way,  in  which  the 
last  rites  could  be  observed.  Judge 
(Jate  and  Mr.  tVekard  daw  that  tbls 
wish  was  observed,  Thoir  manage- 
ment of  tho  funeral  wu  superb.  There 
were  thousands  nrosant  Most  of 
whom  viewed  thoreraxins  but  not  all 
of  whom  oonld  possibly  attend  the  ser- 
vice. 

The  house  wonld  bare  been  too  small 
for  the  most  intimate  friends;  the 
Friends'  Meeting-house*  short  distance 
away,  wonld  hay*  been  too  small;  to 
have  gone  to  any  ohurch  or  hall  wonld 
hay*  been  Inappropriate,  "  Heaven 
smiled,  and  a  most  beautiful  September 
day  was  given.  It  was  one  of  Mr.  Whlt- 
tler's  own  days ;  jnst  such  as  he  himself 
wonld  have  chosen.  Tbe  day  was  full 
of  health  and  joy. "  Those  In  charge  of 
the  services  fittingly  thought  ot  having 
services  in  the  Beautiful  garden  lawn 
just  in  the  rear  of  the  house.  This  gar- 
den Is  a  familiar  place  to  every  visitor. 
It .  was  a  favorite  haunt.  From  the 
library  windows  Its  trees  and  shrubs 
were  seen,  and  their  growth  and  har- 
vest watched  with  constant  Interest 
It  was  a  most  beautiful  place  tor  the  ser- 
vice. There  was  present  a  large  audi- 
ence of  choice  frlenda  The  plain  and 
qniet  service  waa  beautiful  beneath 
these  trees. 

T  e  words  of  the  several  speakers. 
who  were  truly  moved  by  the  spirit,  were 
touohtng.  The  poems  recited  took  on 
new  meaning;  and  the  words  of  Mr. 
Steadman  were  a  source  of  help  and 
strength.  He  said  to  know  Mr.  Whittler 
was  a  consecration,  and  to  have  his  sym- 


130 

pathy  a  benediction.  The  sorrow  of  the 
hour  was  tinged  with  a  Joy  born  of  God. 
The  entire  service  was  permeated  with 
the  thought,  that  this  life  was  not  all; 
that  Immortality  was  a  blessed  fact,  and 
that  goodness,  faith  and  love  were 
mightier  than  all  the  rthinzs  of  earth. 
It  was  good  to-  be  there.  The  occasion 
was  a  fitting  close  to  his  life  In  his 
dying  hours  he  sent  forth  tbe  message 
of  "love  to  the  world."  Those  gathered 
In  that  garden  realised  that  the  sorrow. 
ing  hearts  of  the  world  were  with  them. 
We  are  sure  that  the  thanks  of  the 
thousands.  Who  loved  Mr.  Whittler  for 
the  good  he  has  done  them,  will  go  to 
those  who  had  in  ehurge  these  last  rites, 
and  to  the  Father  In  heaven,  for  the 
beautiful  September  day. 

In  this  large  concourse  were  many 
friends,  with  whom  through  a  long  life, 
Mr.  Whittler  had  trod- the  qniet  aisles  of 
-prayer.  They  were  doar_and  treasured 
friends  in  a  double  .sense  of  the  word. 
They  have  many  reasons  to  sorrow,  and 
many  to  rejoice.  One  of  their  number 
has  gone,  his  presence  they  will  miss, 
his  companionship  and  counsel  .  was 
most  dear;  but  their  faith  was  lived.  A 
gazing  world  saw  in. that  departed  life,  a 
character  sweet  and  pure  and  true.  Mr. 
Whittler  loved  this;  faith,  and  his  wish 
was  to  give  a  parting  expression  In  be- 
half of  "the  birthright  and  conviotion  of 
the  trnth  of  Its  principles  and  tho  im- 
portance of  its  testimonies,"  In  this  ex- 
pression, these  services  were  Joined  by 
those  of  every  shade  of  religious  belief 
and  rite.  The  helpful  spirit  melted 
every  heart,  and  became  as  one.  In  the 
.departure  of  such  a  sonl  from  the  scenes 
of  earth,  there  is  a  spiritual  delight, 
which  makes  all, to  bo  drawn  nearer 
God. 

The  people  of  Amesbury  are  as  one  In 
their  sorrow.  Ago  and  youth  alike  were 
softened  by  the  death  of  their  neighbor 
and  distinguished  citizen.  Sincere  horn- 
axe  was  evidenced  all  through  the  town. 
Public  buildings  and  private  residences 
testified  their  sorrow.  The  people  gave 
the  quiet  greeting  to  the  many  strangers 
who  came  to  "mourn  with  them.  The 
gentle  and  genial  bearing  of  Mr.  Mux- 
well,  a  leading  Friend  in  the  Amesbury 
meeting,  who  had  publio  onarge  of  the 
services,  and  the  appreo  ative  adminis- 
tration to  many  of  the  details  of  the  ser- 
vice byMr. Garrison  will  bo,  recalled  with 
great  pleasure.  They  rendered  satisfac- 
torily their  services.  Tho  press  '  of 
Amesbury  wore  generous  in  thoir  help 
to  visiting  correspondents'  and  editors. 
The  Amesbury  News  had  a  line  tribute 
to  Air.  Whittter's  memory,  by  the  Hon. 
W.  H.  B.  Currier,  a  llfo-lonc  neighbor 
ot  Mr.  Whittler,  and  for  a  half  century 
Connected  with  tho  local  pre-is.  He  is 
probabiy  the  best  acquainted  man  of 
Mr.  Wliitticr'a  early  editorial  labors. 
His  tribute  was  fitting,  neighborly  and 
sincere, 

Tho  "plain  and  qniet  way"  waa  ob- 
served. The-  many  hundred^  did  not 
prevent  it.  The  hearts  ot  a  loving  and 
sorrowful  world  ace  '^ankfut  that  the 
wishes  of  the  dear  post  were  carried  out 
by  tru«  and  faithful .'  .ends. 


6<ri*rrHTAuu/cAfW,  Stf^S,  iflx. 

HAMP-rrtw,  N.  H..  Sept  7.— John  (V 
Whit  tier  passed  away  at  4.30  o'clock  this 
morning.  He  died  peacefully  and  waa 
conscious  up  to  the  last  moment.  The 
funera*  will  take  place  at  Amesbury, 
*Mass..  at  '2.30  Saturday  afternoon- 
According  to  the  Quaker  custom,  there 
Sain  hn  no  sermon  preached  at  the 
"fnn-rrvl  services  over  the  body  o*t  John 
'G.  Wnittier.  Tho  sorvieos  will  be  quite 
Blrh nl*  Tho  bells  in  AmeKbury,  Mr. 
Wiilttler's  late  home,  were  tolled  this 
forenoon  when  the  news  of  his  death 
was  received  there. 

Akrtrh   nt  I1U  Life. 

I  The  following  sketch,  written  by  Mr. 
Whitticr  with  his  own  hand  a  few  years 
n_- ••  In  rasponsn  to  inquiries  made  of 
him.  gives  the  main  points  of  interest  in 
•  lone  and  useful  life.  It  has  never  been 
given  i  i  world  generally: 

1  was  born  on  Dec.  17.  1907.  In  tho 
easterly  part  of  Haverhill,  Mass.,  In  tho 
house  mnlt  by  my  first  American  ances- 
tor, : '  ■<■>  years  ago.  My  father  waa  a 
fnrnv  r  in  moderate  circumstances— a 
tnan  of  good  natural  ability  and  sound 
judgment  For  a  great  many  years  ha 
was  one  of  the  selectmen  of  the  town, 
anu  as  often  called  upon  to  act  as  arbi- 
trator in  matter*  at  Issue  between  neigh- 
bors. M  v  mother  was  Abigail  Hussey 
of  Holllngftford.  N.  H. 

A  tvn-ncior  uncle  and  a  maiden  aunt, 
both  of  whom  1  remember  with  much  af- 
fection,livedlnthofamlly.  The  farm  was 
not  a  profitable  one;  It  was  burdened 
with  dent,  and  we  had  no  spare  money  t 
but  with  strict  economy  we  lived  com- 
fortably and  respectably.  Both  my 
parents  were  members  of  the  Society  of 
Friends.  I  had  a  brother  and  two  sis- 
ters. Our  home  was  somewhat  lonely. 
fnalf  hidden  In  oak  woods,  with  no  house 
n  sight,  and  we  had  few  companions  of 
our  age  and  few  occasions  of  recreation. 
Our  ;.'-iiool  was  only  for  12  weeks  In  a 
year— in  the  depth  bf  winter  and  half  a 
inilo  distant; 

.  At  an  early  age  I  was  set  at  work  On 
TWm  t.trni  and  doing  errands  ifor  my 
Smother,  who.in  addition  to  her  ordinary 
(bouse  duties,  was  busy  in  spinning  and 
{weaving  the  linen  and  woollen  cloth 
tjaec.lod  in  the  family.  On  tirst-daya 
flat 1 1 «r  and  mother,  and  sometimes  one 
pit  the  children,  rode  down  to  the 
unds'  Meeting-house  in  Amesbury, 
■ichr.  miles  distant  I  think  I  rather  en* 
wyed  staying  at  home  and  wandering 
n  the  woods,  or  climbing  Job's  hill. 
iwlncii  rose  abruptly  from  the  brook 
{Which  rippled  down  at  the  foot  of  our 
•pardon.  From  the  top  of  the  hill  I 
.con  id  see  the  blue  outline  of  the  Deer- 
'field  mountains  in  New  Hampshire,  and 
•the  solitary  peak  of  Agamentlous  on  the 
tcoast  of  Maine 

>  A  curving  line  of  morning  mist  marked 
±he  course  of  the  Merrlmae.  and  the 
Great  l'ond,  or  Kenoza,  stretched  away 
from  tho  foot  ot  the  hill  toward  the  vil- 
lace  of  Haverhill  hidden  from  'sight  by 
Intervening  hills  and  woods,  bat  which 
sent  to  ns  the  sound  ot  Its  two  church 
Delia  We  had  only  about  20  volumes  of 
books,  most  of  them  the  journals  of  pio- 
nerr  ministers  in  our  sooiety.  Our  only 
annual  was  an  almanac  I  was  early 
feno  "i  reading,  and  now  and  then  heard 
or  a  book  of  biography  or  travel,  and 
wnlk.d  mllcsto  borrow  it. 

When  I  was  14  years  old  my  first 
sohoolmastcr,  Joshua  Coffin,  the  able. 
eccentric  historian  ol  Newbury,  brought 
with  him  to  our  house  a  volume  of 
lKirn°'.«  poems,  from  which  he  read. 
greatly  to  my  delight.  I  begged  him  to 
iea>.o  the  book  with  me,  and  set  mvselr 
at  onee  to  the  task  of  mastering  the  glos- 


suy  of  the  Hootch  dialect  at  its  close. 
',  lift  was  abort t  the  first  Doetry  I  hna 
6'  er  road— with  the  exception  of  that  of 
.no  Bible,  of  which  I  had  been  a  close 
sr;  uniit  -and  it  had  a  lasting  influence 
Upon  me.  V 

1  he-an  to  make  rhymes  myself  and  to 
lin  mine  stories  and  adventures.  In 
loot,  1  lived  a  sort  of  dual  lite,  and  in  a 
world  of  fancy,  as  well  as  in  the  world 
of  nlaln  matter  ot  fact  about  me.  My 
lather  always  had  a  weekly  newspaper, 

5n<l  when  young  Garrison  started  his 
'ree  Press  at  Nowburyport,  he  took  it 
In  tho  place  of  the  Haverhill  Gazette. 
Blv  M«ter.  who  was  two  years  older  than 
myself,  sent  one  of  my  poetical  attempts 
to  the  editor.' 

Some  weeks  afterward  the  newscar- 
tier  caino  along  on  horseback  and  threw 
the  paper  out  from  his  saddle  bans.  My 
uncle  and  1  were  mending  fences,  i 
tooK  up  the  sheet  and  was  surprised  and 
ore  loved  to  see  my  lines  In  the  'Toet's 
Corner."  I  stood  (razing  at  them  m 
wonder,  and  my  uncle  had  to  call  me 
several  times  to  my  work  before  I  could 
recover  myself.  Soon  after.  Garrison 
came  to  our  farmhouse,  and  I  was  called 
in  from  hoeing  In  the  cornfield  to  see 
him.  lie  encouraged  me,  and  urged  my 
father  to  semt  me  to  school. 

1  longed  for  education,  but  the  means 
to  procure  It  were  wanting.  Luckily,  the 
you  us  man  who  worked  for  ns  on  the 
la:  in  in  summer,  eked  oat  his  small  In- 
come by  making  ladies'  shoes  and  slip- 
pers In  tho  winter ;  nnd  1  learned  enough 
of  him  to  earn  n  mm  sufficient  to  carry 
me  through  a  tenu  of  six  months  in   tho 
Haverhill  Academy.    The  next  winter  I 
ventured  upon  another  expedient  for  rai  s- 
IBJ  fi '  ■  »  and  kept  a  district  scho  d  In 
the  adjoining  town  of  Amesbury.  there- 
by enabling  me  to  have  another  academy 
term.     I  he   next    winter   I     spent     in 
Boston,  writing  for  a  paper. 

JCeturniufi  in  the  spring,  while  at  work 
on  the  farm,  I  was  surprised  by  nn  invi- 
tation to  take  charge  of  the  Hartford, 
.Cfc.  Jicview,  in  tho  place  of  the  famous 
C.  J.).  I'reutico,  who  had  removed  io 
Kentucky.  1  had  oent  him  some  of  my 
school  •compositions,"  which  he  had  re- 
rcivet    favorably.    1   woe    unwilling  to 

io-c  the  chance  of  doing  something  more 
n  >ic  ordauce  with  my  taste,  and  though 
1  :«\i  my  unfitness  for  the  place,  lau- 
MPled  it.  and  remained  nearly  two 
Vours,  wiien  1  was  called  home  by  the 
Illness  ot  my  lather,  who  died  soon 
*itnr.  1  then  to.ik  charge  of  the  farm 
and  worked  hard  to  "make  both  ends 
meet" :  and.  aided  by  my  mother's  and 
bister's  thrift  and  economy,  in  some 
measure  succeeded. 

As  a  member  of  the  Society  of 
Friends,  I  Imd  been  educated  to  regard 
slavery  us  a  great  and  dangerc  us  evil, 
an  .  my  sympathies  '.er".  strongly  en- 
listed for  tho  oppressed  slaves  by  my, 
inttina'.u  ucmintan  e  with  William. 
l  ,-.,  ''.  »;arr!s»>n.  When  the  latter  started] 
Is  .ii  i  ■  in  Vermont  in  ii<>h.  [  wrote 
iiT)  ;  •  1  •  '-"  .'".loucliiig  his  views  upon; 
«i*very,  iatani u wanes  juid  wax.  and  km 
snrlng  him  that  he  was  destined  to  do 
great  things,  in  1833  I  was  a  delegate 
to  the  first  national  anti-slavery  conven- 
tion at  Philadelphia.  I  was  one  of  the 
seoretailes  of  the  convention  and  signed 
Its  declaration,  in  1^31  I  was  In  the 
Mussaehusetts  Legislature. 

I  was  tnnlihed  In  Concord,  N.  II.,  In 
company  with  George  Thompson,  after- 
ward member  of  the  British  Parliament, 
anil  narrowly  escaped  from  great  dan- 
ger. I  kept  Thompson,  whoso  lif»j  was 
hunted  for,  concealed  incur  lonely  farm- 
house for  two  week*.  1 1  was  in  lioston 
during  the  great  mob  in  Washington 
street  soon  after,  and  was  threatened 
with  personal  violenoa  in  1837  I  was  In 
New  York,  in  conjunction  with  H.  B. 
Stanton  and  Theodore  D.  Weld,  in  the 
office  of  the  American  Anti-Slavery  So- 
ciety. 
_  The  next  year  I  took  charge  of  the 


140 

Pennsylvania  freeman,  an  organ  of  the 
Anti-Slavery  so  rety.  My  office  was 
sacked  and  burned  by  a  mob  soon  after, 
but  I  continued  my  paper  until  my 
health  failed,  when  1  returned  to  Massa- 
chusetts. The  fai  m  In  Haverhill  had  In 
the  meantime  been  sold,  and  my  mother, 
aunt,  and  youngest  sister  had  moved  to 
Amesbury.  hear  the  Friends'  meeting 
house,  and  1  took  np  my  residence  with 
them.  All  this  time  I  had  been  actively 
engaged  in  writing  for  the  anti-slavery 
cause.  In  183  <  1  printed  at  my  own  ex- 
pense an  edition  of  my  first  pamphlet, 
"Justice  and  i  xpedlency." 

With  the  exception  of  a  few  dollars 
from  the  Pcmooratio  Review  and  Buck- 
ingham's "Magazine  1  received  nothing 
for  my  poems  and  literary  articles.  In- 
deed my  pronounced  views  on  slavery 
made  my  name  too  unpopular  for  a  pub- 
lisher's uses,  f  edited  in  1844  the  Mid- 
dlesex Standard  and  afterward  became 
associate  editor'  of  -the  National  Era  at 
Washington.  1  early  saw  the  necessity 
of  separate  political  action  on  the  part 
of  the  abolitionists;  and  was  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  Liberty  party— thu  germ 
of  the  present  i.epublican  party. 

In  ir>7  an- edition  of  my  complete 
poems  up' to  that  time  was  publisned  by 
T icknor  &  .Fields.'  "In  War  Time"  fol- 
lowed in  lHfi*.  and  in  1««5  "Snow 
Hound."  In  181 0 1  was  ohosen  a  member 
of  the  electoral  college  ot  Massachu- 
setts, and  also  in  i8i>4.  I  have  been  a 
member  of  the  Board  ot  Overseers  of 
Harvard  College  and  a  trustee  of  Brown 
University.  But  while  feeling  and  will- 
ing to  meet  all  the  responsibilities  of 
citizenship,  and  deeply  interested  in 
questions  which  concern  the  welfare 
and  honor  of  the  country,  1  have  as  a 
rule  deolined  overtures  for  acceptance 
of  public  stations.  1  have  always  taken 
an  active  part  in  elections,  but  have  not 
been  willing  to  add  my  own  example  to 
the  greed  of  ollice. 

I  have  been  a  member  ot  the  Society 
of  Friends  by  birthright,  and  by  a 
settled  conviction  of  the  truth  of  its 
principles  nnd  the  importance  of  its 
testimonies,  while  at  the  same  time  I 
have  a  kind  feeling  toward  all  those 
who  are  seeking,  in  different  ways  from 
mine,  to  serve  God  and  benefit  their 
fellow-men. 

Neither  of  my  sisters  are  living.  My 
dear  mother,  to  whornl  owe  mnch  every 
way,  died  in  1S58.  [His  brother  Matthew 
Franklin  Whitt.er,  died  in  l»83.| 

My  health  was  never  robust;  I  inheri- 
ted troin  both  my  parents  a  sensitive, 
nervous  temperament;  and  one  of  my 
enriiest  recollections  is  of  pain  in  the 
head,  from  which  1  have  suffered  all  my 
life.  For  many  years  I  have  not  been 
able  to  read  or  write  for  more  than  half 
an  hour  at  a  time;  often  not  no  long. 
Of  late  my  hearing  has  teen  defective. 
But  in  many  ways  I  have  been  blest  far 
beyond  my  deserving;  and.  grateful  to 
the  divine  Providence,  I  tranquilly 
await  the  close  of  a  Ufa  whieh  has 
been  longer,  and  on  the  whole 
happier,  than  I  had  reason  to  expect, 
although  far  different  from  that  which  I 
dreamed  of  In  youth.  My  experience 
confirms  the  words  of  old  time,  that  "It 
is  not  In  man  who  walketh  to  direct  his 
steps."  Claim  lug  no  exemption  front 
the  sins  and  follies  of  our  common  hu- 
manity. 1  dare  not  complain  of  their  in- 
evitable penalties.  1  have  had  to  learn 
renunciation  and  submission,  and 

"Knowing 
That  kindly  Providence  iti  caro  is  showing 
In  the  withdrawal  as  in  the  bestowing. 
Scarcely  I  dare  for  more  or  less  to  pray." 

The  BTctt*   at  HAvarhllL 

HAVKRiiir.r,  Sept  7.— The  news  of 
the  death  of  John  G.  Whittler  has  been 
received  here  with  universal  feelings  of 
sadness  and  regret  The  City  Hall  bell 
was  striiok  84  times  at  8  o'clock,  as  indi- 
cating the  age  of  the  deceased,  and  flags 


on  the  buildings,  and  also  on  too  school, 
nous*,  were  displayed  at  half-mast  as  a 
token  of  respect  for  the  groat  pool. 

tut:  pa"*  tUTdTTB  posts. 

Lord  Tei:ar«on  died  a  rieb  men.  How- 
rich.  no  one  yet  Lnowe,  but  If  litf'lsfi  tk 
fortnnc  of  51,000,000  and  over  it  would  «tr»2 
prise  no  one.  His  early  publishers,  Meam.1 
btrnban  St  Co.,  paid  blm,  Mr,  George  W. 
Rmalley  write*  from  London,  $20,000  a  yeari 
for  thu  privilege  of  pabllshlng  bis  poems* 
snd  a  royalty  lioaides.wbicb  was  abi>ve  the? 
conventional  10  par  cent,  paid  to  most: 
aiubors.  It  h  fair  to  suppose  that  b# 
ohaoped  bis  publishers  to  his  profit ,  Maw 
that  tbe  Me««rs.  MaeMiilaa  paid  htmdnring 
recent  years  in  wbiob  tbey  wers  bis  poblinb-, 
ers  &  still  larger  sum,  wblob  msy  readily! 
havb  jeacbed,  with  royalties  and  other  rs-: 
turns  • -:40.0 )0  to  $50,000 annually.  Ht  wea' 
paid  b?  the  Nineteenth  Century  $1575  for", 
tbe  "lievo.?e."  Good  WoHs  paid  Sim 
twenty  Tuiness,  or  about  $105  a  Use  for  one 
of  tbe  worst  poems  be  svsr  trrrte,  and 
twenty  year*  before  be  received  $50  a  lias 
from  «n  ac*  bisons  publisher.  Yet  down  to 
Lbs  issue  of  his  collected  works,  fortv-foor 
years  before  bis  death,  he  bsd  obtained 
next  to  nothing  for  bis  poems  dupnu  ■' 
pe.  cd  in  wbiob  be  bad  produced  •MsudY 
n&rf  "In  Menioriam."  sod  his  first  assured 
income  came  from  tbe  familiar  two-volom* 
edition  in  wbiob  to  many  of  this  veneration 
first  read  bis  poems.  It  was  in  ths  sting 
of  straitened  retoarees  after  tbe  loss  of 
bis  personal  fortune  and  before  bis  poems 
yielded  him  s  revenue  that  be  soeeptf  d  ths 
pension  of  $1000  a  year  wbiob  be  continued 
to  receive    np  to    ths  Urns   of   bis   death," 

Esriy  neglect  followed  by  later  riebe* 
bss  been  no  nnesnal  lot  among  tbe  poets 
of  tbe  century.  Longfellow,  who  r  oetvei 
$14  for  "Excelsior,"  $20  esob  for  tbo  "Gob- 
let  of  Life"  and  "To  tbe  River  Charles," 
and  $25  for  the  "Wreck  of  ths  Besperos," 
lived  to  reeeivs  $4000,  $30  a  lins,  for  lbs 
"Banging  of  tbe  Crane."  "I  wish,"  he  wrote 
in  1840  of  ths  $10,000  a  year  made  by  N. 
P.Willis,  "that  I  made  ten  bandrod." 
Down  to  1852,  $2800.  be  records,  wss  ths 
largest  torn  be  bad  received  in  say  oas 
year  from  bis  psn.snd  thiowss  after  be  bad 
pnhlisbed  "Evangeline,"  perbsps  bis  most 
popular  poem.  Yet  wbeo  be  died  be  left  so 
estate  of  $356,200.  Whittier  bas  Jost  left 
$200,000,  tboogb  for  bis  earlier  poems  be 
received  nothing.  Lowell,  on  tbe  otbsv 
band,  pnhlisbed  bis  first  poems  at  bis  ewsy 
expense,  snd  to  tbe  end  bis  income  from 
tbem  was  small ;  tnd  it  wa#only  la  tbe  elos- 
ins  ten  or  fifteen  years  of  bis  life  that 
Browning,  who  bsd  a  similar  exper- 
ience with  His  first  volume,  received 
snything  from  bis  poems. 

Tbe  eoormeos  inoreote  Id  tbs  number  of 
readers  in  this  century  bss  usdonbtedly 
added  to  tbs  gain's  of  tbs  average  and 
mediocre  writer.  It  bss,  too,  given  grains  a 
reward  it  bss  never  before  bad ;  hot  tbe 
retnrns  of  popular  poets  were  as  gnat  half 
a  century,  a  century,  or  even  two  osntsrfeo 


ago.  •»  bow.  No  author  of  tb«  last  half  of 
tbe- century  baa  approached  t be  $1,800,000 
Scott  earned  with  bis  pen.  For  on*  novel 
be  waa  paid  at  tbe  rata  of  $252  a  working 
day.  Tba  "Lost  Minstrel"  ba  aold  for 
$3946.60,  "Martnion"  for  $5000,  and  tba 
"Lady  of  tbe  Lake- for  $10,500.  Byron 
began  where  ba  eloaed,  with  $20,000  for 
"Child*  BaraM,"  and  $15,000  for  "Don 
Juan."  "Lalia  Rookb,"  a  few  weekt'  work. 
waa  aold  in  advenes  for  $15,760.  and 
Moore  received  $45,000  for  "Irish  Melodies." 
Campbell.  comparatively  unknown, received 
$15,000  for  tbe  "Pleasores  of  Hope." 
though  Borne,  lem  fortunate,  waa  paid  $100 
for  tba  first  Kilmarnock  edition  of  big 
poeme— single  copies  of  wbicb  eell  for  far 
more— and  $3500  for  tbe  aeeond  edition. 
Pro.  who  aold  tba  "  Raven"  for  $20.  never 
had  tbe  good  fortaoe  to  tec  a  second  aditiea 
of  bii  poeme  wanted. 

Earlier  Euxliib  posts  did  aa  well— oom- 
nercially  speaking— as  the  brillant  gros| 
Wbkb  opened  tbe  ceutuijr.  Dryden'i 
"Vircll"  hroiight  bun  fWWO,  and  Pope's 
"Homer"  $40,000.  OrayA  it  h  true,  re- 
ceived only  $200  for  bin  poems,  bat  tin* 
waa  d>ie  to  his  prejudice  sgsinst  makinar 
money  wiib  his  pen,  and  tbe  "  Elegy,"  wbicb' 
I)"  pave  to  IWesley,  brought  the  pobli»l.«r 
$■'•000  ia  profits.  Jobn  Gay  made  $8300  out  of 
tbe*  Beggar's  Opera."  and  $0000,  out  of  it* 
saccensor  "Polly."  Goldsmith,  It  is  true, 
only  received  $300  for  tbe  "Traveler,"  $500 
for  tbe  "Deserted  VI Hate."  but  this  waa 
due  to  lack  of  any  business  ability  ia  driv. 
log  a  bargain:  while  the  $75  paid  Milton 
for  "Paradise  Lost"  la  a  claaeic  example  of 
unrewarded  genius,  though  tba  earn*  publio 
made  Bunyan  rieb  with  tbe  profita  of  bis 
work. 

English  .  authors  have  in  tba  main  been 
better  paid  than  tboae  on  tbe  Continent. 
Few  countries,  like  Norway,  pension  a  poet 
as  Jhsen  Las  been,  or,**,  in  Hnngsry.  provide 
a  residence  and  'incone  by  «he  gifts  of 
friends, ns  bas  been  done  for  Mortti  .lokal.tbe 
Hungarian  poet.  Sohille  •'*  heirs  have  l>  ■  n 
paid  $456,600  in  copyrights,  hut  be  only 
received  $14,500  from  I7flt  to  1805.  Goethe 
wns  paid  by  one  publisher.  Colta,  $V»i.77B' 
<n  ills  Ufa-time,  and  bu  beirs  rteeivrd  a* 
iiiich  rooi" after  his  death,  Cboteachriand 
v    ■   paid  i. COO  tor    bit  collected    works, 

a;        rumarlim     »  ■***)    for    "Fall    of     an 
.'  m  :     v  ■,iiimi  for  hi*   history;    '»■>» 
n  ■ .  •■■      -  ■  ■■'    >■■  ;■  ]  joirmlieti    tei 

hv    •  -  pay  than  Euiclifco     ie  i'-encu  poet  re- 
enivea.  iu  aanoral  i«M 


Yashin  gtbn  Irving. 
No.  2. 


141 

throughout  Lis  works,  the  enforced 
humor — his  mellow,  flowing,  softly- 
tin 'od  style,  all  seem  to  bespeak  hia 
moiul  as  ^-ell  as  his  intellectual  quali- 
ties and  make  us  love  the  man  at  the 
ran. e  time  that  we  may  admire  the 
author."  Yes,  all  "the  secret  wind- 
ings of  the  heart "'  we  seem  to  trace  as 
we  turn  the-  pages  of  this  (manning 
writer.  Lb  Bancroft  expressed  it  in 
writing  to  Irving  about  the  Life  of 
Washington:  "The  throbbings  of 
jjeVt&yaii  ai-  a3  marked  and  percep- 
tible along  the  pages  as  in  anything 
you  ever  vrote."  He  calls  Irving  one 
of  the  c<  great  masters "  of  the 
English  tongue,  "always  felicitous, 
— never  redundant — graceful  and  ele- 
gant,'" J.  Loth  r op  Motley  expresses 
the  feeling  of  thousands  when  he  says 
a    sense     "of    personal    obligation" 


I    white;  j 

She  waves  them  both  in  her  oneqaal  flight"  ' 

The  warm,  hearty  and  healthy  sym- 
pathy with  nature  shown  by  Irving, 
is"  a  continual  sunshine  that  floods  his 
pages.  His  pictures  of  English  rural 
life  entrance  us  with  their  sweet 
serenity  and  blissful  beauty.  He  also 
uses  the  processes  of  nature  to  illus- 
trate truth,  as  where  hs  represents 
the  growth  of  genius  under  difficulties. 
Providence  delights  in  "  disappointing 
the  assiduities  of  art  with  which  it 
would  lead  dulness  to  maturity  and 
to  glory  in  the  vigor  and  luxuriance  of 
her  chas.ee  productions.  She  scatters 
the  seeds  of  genius  to  tbe  winds. 
Though  some  may  perish  among  the 
stony  places  of  the  world,  and  some 
be  choked  by  the  thorns  and  brambles 
of  early  adversity  ;  yet  others  will  now 


mingles  *rith  admiration  in  the  hearts  fend  then  strike  root,  even  in  the  clefts 


of  his  "  innumerable  readers." 
p^he  truthfulness  of  Irving's  charac- 
ter is  another  feature  worthy  special 
commendation.  In  his  diplomacy  at 
Madi  id,  he  says :  "  I  have  depended 
more-  <ipo~i  good  intentions,  frank  and 
op, ..  . -.o  uduct,  than  upon  a  subtle 
taanttgeznexft.  i  have  an  opinio**  that 
43w  old  aia-un,  '  Honesty  is  the  best 
policy,'  holds  good  even  in  diplom- 


at the  rock,  struggle  up  bravely  into 
sunshine,  and  spread,  over  their  sterile 
birth-place  all  the  beauties  of  vegeta- 
tion." 
Again,  he  conceives  an"  afiiiuTy  Ee"» 

tween  all  natures,  animate  and  inami- 
mate,  and  compares  the  pride  and 
lus!  ihood  of  the  oak  to  the  power  of 
lion  and  eagle;  and  then,  rising  to  a 
higher  parallel,  he  makes  the  mighty 


acy !  "  He  was  heart-sick,  he  says,  at  pillar,  with  its  leafy  honora  lifted  high 
the  intrigue  and  falsehood  seen  in  and  broad  in  the  he©  air  and  glorious 
court  circles,  the  lack  of  "high  honor  sunshine,  " an  emblem  of  what  a  true 
and  pure  patriotism  in  political  affairs."  nobleman  Bhould  be— a  refuge  forthe 
When  released  from  duties  at  Madrid,  ™&,  a  &*lier  for  the  .oppressed,  a 
the  Queen  stepped  out  of  the  formali-  defence  for  the  defenceless  ...  an 
ties  of  style  seen  in  state  papers  and  ornament  and  a  blessing  to  his  native 
addresses,  to   thank  Irving    for    his  land. '  *^ 

'f  frank  conduct "  as  well  as  loyalty  and  Inviting  a  friend  to  Sunnyside,  ho 
ability.  writes,   "  Come  and  see  me,  and  TO 

Charged  with  puffing  his  own  books, 
he  explained  that,  at  the  request  of  the 
publisher,  in  England,  Mr.  Murray,  he 
wrote,  what  many  authors  now  do, 
matter  illustrative  of  his  work  x>n 
Granada  to  explain  certain  points,  hi 
not   laudatory.     He    used    the    sou 


A3    A   ?tAX  AXO   AUTHOR. 


briquet  of  a  Spanish  name,  and  was 
paid  for  what  he  did  as  for  other  ar- 
We  may  say  of  Irving  what  he  said  tides  furnished    Mr.   Murray.      Mis- 

ot  Goldsmith :  "  We  read  his  charac-  representations    will    always     attend 

tci  in  every  page,  and  grow  into  fami-  the  best  arjd  truest  public  men.     As 

liar  intimacy  with  him  as  we  read.  Milton  says — 

The   artless   benevolence   that  h-Ams  «» pa^ne  has  two  wings,  one  black,  the  other- 


give  you  a  book  and  a  tree. 

After  reading  "  Rural  Life  in  Eng- 
land," Richard  H.  Dana  said  that  he 
was  as  much  refreshed  aa  if  he  had 
been  really  enjoying  an  hour  or  two 
the  very  fields .  and  wood*  them- 
selves. The  subduing  influences  of 
nature  seem  to  clear  away  every  dis- 
turbing thought,  or  transform  them, 
as  the  clouds  are  turned  to  beauty  by 
the  splendor  of  the  moon.  At  one 
time  Mr.  Irving  writes :  "  I  feel  a  kind 
of  intoxication  of  the  heart  as  I  draw 
in  the  pure  air  of  the  mountains,  and 


8)~       ' 

the  clear  transparent  atmosphere ;  the 
steady,  serene,  golden  sunshine  seems 
to  enter  my  very  sonL" 

An  intimate  friend  in  England  said : 
"  Nature,  in  her  sweetest  or  grandest 
moods,  pervaded  his  whole  imagina- 
tion, and  left  no  place  lor  low  or  evil 
thoughts."  He  loved  the  birds  that 
sung  about  Sunnyside,  and  woke  one 
night  in  great  distress,  having 
dreamed  that  he  had  killed  one  of 
them.  He  could  not  shake  off  the  im- 
pression till  he  lit  his  lamp  and  read 
off  the  effects. 

In  his  last  days  he  wrote:  "O 
blessed  retirement,  friend  to  life's 
decline  !  How  delicious  it  is  to  loll  in 
the  shade  of  the  trees  I  have  planted, 
arid  feel  the  sweet  southern  breeze 
starting  up  the  green  banks,  and  look 
out,  with  half-dreaming  eye,  on  the 
beautiful  scenery  of  the  Hudson,  and 
build  castles  in.  the  clouds  as  I  used 
to  do  hereabouts  in  my  boyhood.  -  Wo 
never  had  so  many  singing  birds  about 
the  place,  and  the  humming  birds 
are  about  the  windows  continually 
after  thr  ^spcrcrs  of  the  honeysuckles 
and  trumpcr  creepers  which  overhang 
them."  Hew  liko  the  picture  Banyan 
gives  of  Beulah  Land,  ■  whose  air  was 
very  tweet  and  pleasant;  yea,  they 
heard  continually  the  singing  of  birds, 
and  saw,  every  day,  the  flowers  appear 
on  the  earth."  Sunnyside  was  and  is 
a  sweet  Elysian,  but  it  was  the  sunny 
spirit  within  that  brightened  living's 
outward  paradise  and  made  its  atmos- 
phere melodious.  The  birds  were 
there,  but  a.querelous  spirit  out  of 
sympathy  -with  nature  would  have 
never  heard  fheir  melody. 

livings  chitvalrio  regard  for  woman 
is  another  noble  feature  of  his  charac- 
ter. Speakicg  of  Madame  A——,  he 
said  that  she  seemed  an  ideal  of  divine 
grace  and  purity  before  whom  he  could 
have  knelt  an  1  worshipped.  "  For  my 
part. I  ?m  SHRIKfiUtious  in  my  admira- 
tion of  them  (women)  and  like  to  walk 
in  a  perpetual  delusion  decking  thera 
out  as  divinities.  I  thank  no*  one  to 
undeceive  me  and  to  prove  that  they 
are  mere  mortus."  Highest  of  all  is 
the  place  nwgives  to  a  mother.  Her 
love  to  a  son  is  painted  in  glowing  i 


142 
words:  "Neither  chiliad  by  selfish- 
ness, dannted  by  danger,  weakened  by 
wortlilessne8S,'nor  stifled  by  ingrati 
tude.  She  will  glory  in  his  famo,  ex 
ultin  his  prosy erity,  and  if  adversity 
cvt  i.ake  him  he  will  be  the  dearer  to 
ht?  by  misfortvne.  If  disgraeg  settle 
on  his  name  she  will  still  love  and 
cherish  him.  ff  all  the"  world  beside^ 
least  him  off  E^e  will  be  all  the  world 
to  him."  His  loN-e  for  Matilda  Hoffman, 
who  died  in  1809,  in  her  eighteenth 
year,  was  deep  and  abiding.  Her' Bible 
and  prayer-book  he  placed  under  his 
pillow,  and  in  his  subsequent  wander- 
ings in  far-off  lands  these  were  his 
constant  companions.  The  removal  of 
her  whom  he  hoped  to  make  his  bride, 
cast  a  life-long  shadow  over  his  path. 
Some  of  his  references  to  it  are  seen 
in  "  St  Mark's  Eve,"  and  other  articles. 
"There  are  departed  beings  that  I 
have  loved  as  I  never  shall  love  again 
in  this  world  ;  that  have  loved  me  as  I 
never  shall  beloved  again." 

Speaking  of  the  service  which  Irving 
has  rendered  to  American  letters, 
Charles  Dudley  Warner  says,  that  W9 
owe  to  him  what  Scotland  owes  to 
Scott  and  Burns.  He  has  invested  a 
new,  crude  land,  with  the  enduring 
charms  of  romance  and  tradition,  a 
priceless  legacy,  an  imperishable  pos- 
session. He  was,  he  says,  always  a 
literary  man,  with  the  habits  and  tastes 
of  such  a  one,  Inching  at  life  from  that 
outlook  rather  than  from  a  political, 
philosophic,  theologic,  or  economic 
point  of  view.  This  may  appear  to  be 
a  less  exalted  one  amid  the  tremendous 
energies  seen  in  passing  affairs,  but  it 
is  the  pointXhat  endures.  Its  crea* 
tions  remain  to  charm  and  civilize  life, 
like  the  poems  of  Horace,  if  they  do 
not  mould  it,  as  did  the  Roman  law, 
Irving  was  not  aggressive  or  partisan, 
but  full  of  lenient  charity  far  all  the 
world. 

The  symmetry  of  Irving's  works  as 
a  whole  is  worthy  of  attention.  We 
see  in  all  ''  an  admirable  proportion.1* 
\8  Underwood  says,  He  does  not 
fatigue  us  by  learned  antithesis  or  pro- 
verbial pliilosemhv  :  he  omits  nothing 
necessary  and  avoids  details  that  are 
needless ;  he  is  as  happy  in  delinea- 


tions of  character  as  he  is  of  scenery ; 
"  he  moves  us  to  tears  or  to  laughter 
at  his  pleasure ;  his  style,  in  short,  is 
absolutely  unrivalled  in  its  fluency, 
grace  and  picturesque  effect.  The 
vivacity  of  youth  never  wholly  desert* 
ed  him.  Although  he  ceased  writing 
humorous  works,  it  served  to  animate 
his  graver  histories  and  to  give  them 
a  charm  which  the  mere  annalist  could 
not  attain.  Other  authors  may,  per* 
haps,  excite  more  of  our  wonder  or 
reverence,  but  Irving  will  be  remem- 
bered with  delight  and  love." 
[concluded  nr  otjb  xixt.] 


Oirc  of  the  illusions  is  that  the  pres- 
ent h-jur  is  not  the  critical,  decisive 
hour.  Write  it  on  your  heart  that 
every  day  is  the  best  day  in  the  year. 

— Emerson. 


-  The  death  of  Mr.  CurrX 
peered,  bat  It  comet  with' 
Joss  to  thousands'  of 
been  delighted  by 
Jeetnal  work, 
who  have  looke 
«qk  American 
the  America^ pul? 
Run -an 
wrtter,  a 


s  not  une£ 

*en*e  df 

who  have 

'  and  intel* 

onsamis  beside* 

him  as  an  i llusiri- 

Ue  figured  before 

both  as  h  literary 

an  influential  political 

o?t  eotialry  In-  both  pose? 


ii« 


lie 


tlona  \vashe  an  interpreter  of  noeiaf  life 

f^rShtlcal  tendencies.  His .  ««rlj£ 
via  It  the  dement  of  romance^ 
3  most  bright  Xew  Engjand  boys; 
red  hi «  novitiate  *at  -  Brook:  Farm 
in  West  Roxbury,  and  at  Concord, where 
he  was  brought  into  pIom  contact  with 
Emerson  and  Hawthorne  .  and  .  Tno- 
rcau.  He  caught  the  inspiration 
of  the  .  transcendental  movement,  and 
remained  a  '  sweet-tempered  radical 
all  his  life;  but  he  soon  passed  ont  of  this 
romantic  period,  and  after  spending  some 
time  abroad,  laying  In  a  large  experience 
of  social  lite,  be  married  and  became  an 
editorial  and  magazine  writer. In  Kaw 
York  city.  Mr.  Parke  Godwin  and  Mr. 
Curtis  were'  the  chief  promoters  of  Put- 
nam's Magazine,  started  la  1864.  They 
associated  with  themselves  Mr.  Lowell, 
Mr.  Charles  F.  Briggs,  Mr.  George  Rim 
ley.  and  other  choice  literary  men  of 
that  day.  and  Putnam's  Magazine  In 
his  bands  became  an  Influential  factor 
In  American  literature.  To  it  Mr.  Curtis 
(Contributed  the  materials  which  were 
afterward  collected  into  a  volume  or 
two.  All  of  these  writings  are  delight- 
ful In  style  and  treatment,  bat  wen 
chiefly  dependent  for  their  interest  oat 
things  .  of  passing  moment  His  con- 
nection with  this  magazine  was  also  tea1 


occasion  of  hi*  burdening  himself  with 
a  debt  of  $100,000;  which  was  Incurred 
because  be  was  a  silent  partner  m  the 
firm  that  published  the  mejratlne.  It 
was  this  debt,  honorably  assumed  and 
as  honorably,  discharged,  which  was 
both  a  help  and  a  hindrance  to  him. 

It  led  to  the  tar  more  serious  pursuit 
of  literature  t  h  an  a  mas  like  Mr.  Curtis 
had.  at  first  Intended,  and  It  compelled 
bin  to  work  in  the  harness  when  he 
would  have  been  glad  to  have  taken  life . 
more  easily.  He  bad  already  been  for 
several  years  the  contributor  of  the 
papers  entitled  the  "Editor's  Easy 
Chair"  in  Harper's  Monthly,  and  it  was 
in  this  field,  occupied  for  nearly  forty 
years,  that  he  was  to  do  his  best  literary 
work.  Not  only  that,  but  when 
Harper's  Weekly  was  established  he 
became  its  principal  editorial  writer, 
and  when,  ten  years  later,  Harper's  Bar 
zar  was  begun,  be  continued  to  write  ad- 
ditional weekly  essays  for  that  for  the 
next  six  years.  He  had,  par  excellence, 
among  American  writers,  the  ability  to 
say  graceful,  pleasant  and  true  things. 
He  had  a  style  of  wonderful  sweet- 
ness and  flexibility,  and  while  he 
did  not  appear  as  a  censor  of  American 
manners,  he  always  exerted  a  positive 
and  refining.  Influence  upon  out  social 
life.  Ephemeral  as  his  work  was  In 
subject,  the  treatment  was  a*  finished 
and  graceful  as  if  it  were  intended  to  last 
for  all  time.  Perhaps  there  is  no  series 
of  comments  on  American  life  for  the 
last  forty  years  equally  broad  and  kind- 
ly, and  at  all  to  be  compared  with  what 
Mr.  Curtis  has  written.  He  never 
wounded  the  sensibilities  of  his  readers, 
never  betrayed  them  by  a  false  touch, 
never  missed  his  opportunity  to  say  the 
right  thing.  If  he  has  left  no  work 
that  is  in  itself  a  proper  meas- 
ure of  bis  ability,  he  has,  nevertheless, 
furnished  specimens  of  style  which  will 
compare  with  the  best  social  writing  In 
the  eighteenth*  century,  when  Addison 
and  Steele  and  Swift  and  Johnson  were 
the  social  censors  of  the  town.  He  had 
a  wonderful  gift  for  saying  delightful 
things,  and  this  appeared  En  his  platform 
workasalectarerinasmarkedad  *gree  as 
it  did  in  what  came  from  his  pen.  His 
lectures  were  of  so  fine  a  quality  that  in 
the. great  lycenm  era  of  the  century 
only  our  best  speakers  surpassed  bltu  as 
sb  orator.  He  carried  the  spirit  of  youth 
and  romance  and  enthusiasm  Into 
thousands  of  villages  and  hamlets  alt 

over  the  land,  and  whtlejn  this  way  he 
was  discharging  Ms  pecuniary  obliga- 
tions to  others,  he  was  everywhere  the 
Insplrer  of  our  American  youth. 

It  remains  to  speak  of  him  as  a  citi- 
zen. We  have  had  more  illustrious  rep- 
resentatives of  citizenship,  but  we  hare 
had  few  Instances  of  men  who  have 
stood  for  the  Ideal  life  of  the  citizen. 
Mr.  Curtis  was  like  Chevalier  Bayard : 
be:  believed  in '.honest  politics  and  In 
honest  methods  of  carrying  his  ends, 
and  be  would  awvtr -stoop  In.  the  Enter-' 


143 

ests  of  party  to  the  doing  of  question- 
able work.  He  stood  on  the  national  side 
of  every  public  question,  and  was  as 
strong  for  purity  In  politics/as  for  purity 
in  private  life.  He  was  an  unswerving 
Republican  until  188-L  when  he  became 
one-  of  the  leaders  of  the  Independent 
Republicans,  who  -refused  to  support 
Mr.  Blaine  in  the  campaign  which  re- 
sulted in  the  election  of  Mr.  Cleveland. 
His  IntlependenUposltion  in  politics  since 
that  time  made  him  in  some  respects 
both  a  more  influential  and  a  less  prom- 
inent man,  but  It  did  not  In  any  way 
Impeach  the  Integrity  of  "his  conduct 
or  the  honesty  of  his  '"eonvictlors. 
"When  he  ceased  to  be  one 
of  the  leaders  among  the  younger  men 
of  the  Republican  party  and  to  Tarry  the 
standard  of  the  torch-bearer,  he  inevita- 
bly lost  the  prestige  which  a  great  and 
powerful  party  cave  him,  but'  he  wa* 
easily  among  the  first  of  the  men  who. 
became  Independents  in  politics,  and* 
Ms  course  in  this  new  position  was- 
ns,  consistent  as  lfc^ifcsjiiJMBskaJse'a 
lote  ia_.tlw.old  Me*  Mr.  Cnrtfs  stood 
in  politics  for  great' national  issues, 
and  In  this  light  his  efforts 
in  behalf  of  civil  service  reform  show 
htm  to  have  been  one  of  the  patriots  and 
pioneers  of  his  day.  His  work  became 
representative,  and  whether  he  suc- 
ceeded or  failed  In  what  he  sought  to 
accomplish,  every  one  felt  the  inspira- 
tion and  the  strength  of  an  honest  man 
in  what  he  undertook  to  do.  Ho  was  a 
typical  American  citfzeu,  a  man  who 
illustrated  the,  spirit  cf  JbAh  tJm*, 
a  man  *who  had  tf»  lisdiarti 
of  the  aristocrat  •  and"  *  wr.s  yet 
so  broad  a  man  that  ha  could 
be  nothing  lesj -fpan  or<e  of  the  people;  * 
man  who-e  life  was  bright  and  sun»jpr 
and  helpful  r>  man  who  had  the  good 
forlnuc  to  make  beautiful  friendships 
And  who  made  his  career  full  of  goodness 
and  Initii,  and  on  whrnn  the  whole  eorn- 
rannity  depended  for^he  light  and  cheer: 
vl  J.ts  woVd,  - 


BY  TELEGRAPH. 

GEORGE  WILLIAM  CURTIS. 

THK     EMUSnCSri     EDITOR,     ATjtHOR, 

XT?D  r.ErORMER  PA83E9  AWAY. 
Fatal   Tebmihaiids"   or   Mb,    CoaxIS, 

Long  Llljoess— His  Evkntfoi.  Cabers 

— OSE    Or    THB    BBOOK    FAB!*.  COIiOITT 

rjr  Eabi/f  Ltrn  —  His  Association 
with  Embrsobt,  Hawthobse,  ANT) 
Thobeau  — Hxs  Br/SY  Lrrn  as  Anti- 
S&avebv  Agitator,  Author,  Editor. 

LECTUBAB,  AND  PUBXJCIBX. 

New  Yobs,  Aug.  31  {By  Direct  Telephons). 
— Mr.  George  WlllUm  Curtis,  the  editor  of 
Harper's  Weekly,  who  baa  been  serionsly  ill 
at  bis  home  on  SUton  Island  for  a  long  time 
past,  died  at  2  o'oleok  this  morning.    Af  \ , 

Aw  BVESTFUl.  AND  Bbiliuaht  Ca.bf.kr. 


G  ecrge  William  Ourtu  was  born  la  Providence, 
B.  L.  on  February  M,  1821.  and  had  thai  more 
than  halt  completed  his  sixty-ninth  year  at  th* 
time  of  his  death.  He  was  partly  of  Massa- 
chusetts descent,  his  father  having  been  barn  in 
"Worcester,  la  that  State,  cf  which  aa  ancestor  was 
the  first  settler.  His  mother  was  the  daughter  of 
Jj.ffi-3  BurriU.  Jr.,  at  Cone  time  Chief  Jaitlce  of 
Bhede  Island. and  afterwards  United  States  Sena 
tor.  In  1830  he  went  to  boarding-school  at  Jamaica 
Plain ,  n  e  ar  Bob  ton,  where  h  e  remained  for  four  yean 
Pleasant  reminiscences  of  his  school-days  there 
are  found  in  the  early  ohapters  of  his  aoval, 
Trump*,  narrated  with  a  freshness  and  onthusl 
asm  which  remind  the  reader  of  Ton  »r**»»  of 
Mvoby.  Meanwhile  he  lost  his  mother;  and  In 
1839,  his  father,  who  had  married  again,  removed 
with  his  family  to  New  York,  and,  desirous  that 
his  f  on  should  pursue  a  mercantile  career,  placed 
hire,  after  a  year's  study  with  a  private  tutor,  as 
,  a  clerk  In  a  German  importing  house  la  Etea.nge 
Place. 

But  mercantile  life  was  not  agreeable  to  the 
youth.  His  tastes  were  decidedly  literary,  aad  la 
the  oocrte  otfils  readlag]  he  became  deeply  inter- 
ested In  the  transcendental  movement,  la  which 
so  many  or  the  best  and  purest  winds  of  Hew 
England  were  at  that  time  engaged.  Accordingly, 
after  about  a  year  of  uaeeageaial  drudgery  la  the 
Importing  house,  la  IIU,  when,  he  was  about 
eighteen  years  old,  be  went  with  his  eldest  brother 
to  join  the  fraternity  of  remarkable  men  aad 
women  who  tried  at  Brook  Farm  the  experiment 
of  founding  a  Uttle  Utopia  of  their  ewa,  after- 
wards celebrated  by  Hawthorne  ta  the  ANftreVsta 
Rcmar.ee.  Here  he  remained  about  eighteen 
months,  in  the  society  of  Emerson,  Hawthorn*, 
Marearet  Fuller,  and  «Uer  leading  salads  of  the 
new  England  of  that  day.  whose  personality  most 
have  mad*  a  stiong  Impression  upon  bis  owa 
tastes  and  habits  of  thouant- 

Apperently  he  found  rural  pursuits,  for  a  time, 
lass  distasteful  than  did  Hawthorne,  who  has  re- 
corded with  quaint  humor  his  aversion  to  milking 
eews  and  digging  potatoes;  for,  after  leaving 
Brook  Farm,  h*  went  to  lire  with  a  farmer  at 
Concord,  Massachusetts,  and  performed  his  al- 
lotted share  of  farm  labor  with  Indus  trio  ns  regu- 
larity. Here,  also,  h*  continued  his  intimacy 
with  Emerson,  Hawthorn*,  and  Thoreau,  his 
warm  friendships  with  whom  being  broken  only 
try  death.  la  his  Heme*  •/  America*  Author*  he 
has  printed  some  io  terestlag  no  tee  of  his  Inter- 
course with  the  philosopher,  the  maaa—r,  aad 
the  hermit. 

■  But.  like  other  members  of  the  Brook  Farm 
**mmuntty,  Mr.  Curtis  at  length  grew  weary  or 
Amateur  farming,  aad  again  turned  his  attention 
to  mora  elegant  and  more  congenial  pursuits.  la 
XBtS  he  went  abroad.  After  speadlag  nearly  a 
year  In  Italy,  he  passed  a  few  month*  In  study  at 
the  University  of  Berlin,  aad  then  extended  hi* 
Wanderings  into  Egypt  aad  Syria.  This  included 
Atrtpep  the  Nile,  la  the  delightful  old  fashion 
new  vanishing  before  thu  introduction  of  steam- 
heat*  aad  railroad*.  Th*  fruit  of  thee*  wander- 
tog*  were  those  charming  beeks  of  travel, 
th*  Nile  Hole*  «/.  *  Hovuijl  aad  The  Sewaoyi 
tm  Stria.  Mr.  Curtis  did  not  travel  In 
search  of  useful  information,  aad  th*  reader 
.Who  looks  for  It  in  thee*  books  win  be  dis- 
appointed. He  wUl  find  there  neither  "races"  nor 
•figures,"  in  the  Oradgriad  sense:  bat  the  Tory 
spirit  ef  the  East  pervade*  every  peg*.  Th*  im- 
pressions caught  from  th*  mighty  architecture 
that,  as  firm  aad  nearly  at  old  as  the  eternal  hill*, 
rise*  on  th*  banks  cf  th*  sacred  river  which  "flow* 
through  old  hushed  Egypt  aad  Its  sands"— from 
th*  Strang*,  weird  people  and  their  customs— «re 
reproduced  la  that*  book*  with  a  Adeltty  which 
overcomes  th*  reader  aa  with  eaehantmeo t.  aad 
transports  him  to  th*  very  seen**  traversed  by 
th*  wanderer.  If  one  weald  thoroughly  e*joy  the 
East,  without  making  a  journey  thither,  be 
should  read  these  delightful  books, 

.  Mr.  Curtis  remained  abroad  ab*at  four  year*. 
On  his  return  ta  this  country,  he  was  ***r*Cod, 
tor  a  while,  on  the  suff  of  the  New  York  T>t»»««, 
aad  wrote  for  that  paper*  eerie*  of  brilliant  let- 


ters  from  Newport  and othw fashionable  water)  no- 
places of  the  ptrtod.  rhes •  letters,  overflowing 
with  graceful  humor,  dedoate  satire,  and  fine 
deeeripttOB,  war*  afterwards  gathered  la  to  a 
volume,  under  tho  title  of  Lotui  Eating.  ■* 

;  In  the  autumn  of  1858  Putn**.'*  ileum*  wu 
started,  udSr.  Onrtawasoneof  its  Ant  editors 
and  writers.  HU  eontrlbuUons  to  ltt  pages  in- 
cluded a  series  of  brilliant  papers  on  "Oar  Best 
Boot***,"  afterwards  published  under  the  title  of 
Tn»  fotipktr  Paper*,  In  which  the  ridiculous  tide 
m*  oar  fashionable  society  wu  satirised  with  a  wit 
and  numor  which  u«  u  pertinent  now  as  they 
wer»  forty  y««n  ago.  When  Putnam' $  was  gold  to 
Six,  Edwards  fe  Co.,  Mr.  Cortla  wai  a  til  eat  part- 
ner la  the  firm;  and  when  It  subsequently  beeame 
embarrassed,  In  the)  spring  of  1857,  he  assumed, 
with  Mr.  Miller,  who  printed  the  magazine,  all  its 
assets  aad  liabilities,  in  Ihe  hope  of  seen  ring  the 
eredl tors  against  loss.  In  this  he  wu  unsueoess. 
-1UL  The  magaslne  soon  went  do wn,  and  carried 
with  it  the  whole  of  hie  print*  fortune. 
•">.  Some  yean  previous  to  this  failure,  Mr.  Oartls 
had  oOhneoteaCauteelf  with  Harper*  t  Hag  as in'. 
In  the  winter  of  1818  he  succeeded  Mr.  Donald  Q. 
Kitchen  u  the  occupant  of  the  "Editor's  Easy 
©heir,"  a  position  which  allowed  and  called  forth 
the  display  of  a  mental  versatility  rarely  equalled 
In  literature.  -  Every  month,  for  nearly  forty 
years,  the  reader  has  turned  to  this  department 
with  expectation  never  doomed  to  disappoint- 
ment. The  whole  range  of  periodical  literature 
contains  no  other  Instance  of  a  series  of  articles  so 
Tailed,  so  brilliant,  so  well  sustained,  U  this.  The 
nearest  approach  to  it,  in  respsstof  duration,  is 
the  Xocle*  Ainbroriantt  of  Christopher  North, 
{Which  ran  through  thirteen  years.  In  the  "Eaiy 
Chair"  Mr.  Curtis  has  treated  the  topics  of  the 
Sfire— rarely,  however,  touching:  on  those  of  * 
■political  nature— with  a  grace  and  ease  of  manner, 
•peeijUarly  alt.own, 

;HnsM  BBrfeTH  otefBf  wSTewtablhthed,  in  18ST7! 
4ffr  Curtis  became  a  constant  contributor  to  itsi 
column*,  conducting  a  department  called  "The" 
Tiounger,"' which  cmsIstcJ  at  first  cf  essays  in  the 
lighter  vein  en  social  and  literary  topics,  very' 
much  In  the  manner  of  the  "Buy  Chair."  After 
tbe  beginning  of  the  war  Mr.  Curtis  frequently 
Introduced  subjects  of  a  national  and  polUcal 
character  In  this  department;  but  his 
field  wu  comparatively  restricted  until, 
on  the  (retirement  of  Mr.  John  Bon- 
ner from  the  position  or  its  editor,  In  1343,  he  as- 
■■.med  ccDtrl  of  the  editorial  page.  Fro  a  that 
icce  until  111  health  compelled  in  abandonment 
'f  literary  labor,  Mr.  Curtis  was  the  principal  edi- 
torial writer  in  Harper's  Weekly,  and:  g*ve  dlrec. 
t'on  and  tone  to  Its  political  coarse.  Whatever 
lay  be  thought  of  hrs opinions  on  party  questions, 
men  of  all  shades  of  political  faith  agree  In  com- 
mending the  dignity,  fairness,  and  ability  with 
which  his  views  have  been  expressed.  He"  br.i 
sever  intentionally  misrepresented  an  opponent, 
and  has  always  been  ready  to  correct  an  error  Into 
which  he  may  have  fallen. 

In  addition  to  the  "Easy  Chair"  and  the  politi- 
cal editorials  In  Harper'*  Weekly,  Mr.  Curtis  was 
the  author  of  the  charming  series  of  papers  In 
Snrper'*  Bazar  entitled  "Manners  upon  the 
Koad,"  In  which,  under  the  signature  of  "An  Old 
Bachelor."  he  treated  principally  social  topics  of 
current  interest.  These  articles  were  commenced 
In  the  first  number  of  the  Bazar,  In  January,  1868, 
and  were  continued  weekly  until  he  wu  obliged, 
seme  five  years  later,  temporarily  to  lay  uide  his 
pen.  They  exhibit  the  same  trait*  of  versatile 
thought,  graces  of  style,  and  refined  culture, 
which  have  characterized  the  "Easy' Chair." 

In  the  early  period  of  bis  career,  when  he  wu 
spurred  to  activity  by  the  determination  to  pay  oil 
every  creditor  of  Putnam's  Magazine,  the  amount 
of  labor  he  performed  was  literally  enormous. 
Betides  filling  the*  "Buy  Chair"  of  Barrier's  Meg. 
azin*  and  the  editorial  chair  of  Barper'e  Weekly, 
he  delivered  a  long  series  of  lectures,  sometimes 
speaking  a  hundred  nights  la  the  coarse  of  »  sin- 
gle season,  and  travelling  without  rest  from  place 
to  place  at  the  insatiable  caU  of  managers  and 


144 

te  place  at  the  Insatiable  call  of  managers  and 
Committees.  No*  one  was  more  popular  as  a  loo- 
twrer  In  those  halcyon  days  of  the  American 
lyeeum.  The  charm  of  his  manner  wu  Irresisti- 
ble, and  he  spoke  with  the  grace  and  ease  of  the 
true  orator.  One  of  the  meet  popular  of  his  leeturee 
wu  that  open  the  perfect  soldier  of  chivalry, 
Sir  Philip  Sydney,  and  scarcely  lets  popular  were 
his  Eowell  lectures  upon  the  modern  English 
novelists,  which  were  repeated  la  all  the  larger 
dues  of  the  United  States,  and  in  many  or  the 
smaller  towns.  The  physical. and  mental  strain 
Involved  in  this  labor  waaso  exeewlve  that  many 
people  wondered  that  he  was  willing  to  undergo 
It.  A  few-only  of  his  Immediate  friends  knew  that 
the  proceeds  of  all  hie  lectures  during  a  period  of 
almost  ten  years,  and  a  part  of  his  salary  aa  editor, 
were  devoted  to  the  liquidation  of  the  debt  from 
which  the  law,  but  not  hlt^-nlgh  tense  of  moral 
responsibility,  would  barer  absolved  him.  In  his 
early  career,  too,  Mr.  Oartls  wu  a  writer  of  very 
graeefal  and  polished  verse.  1st  the  summer  of 
1853  he  delivered,  an  excellent  poem  before  the 
University  of  Boohetter,  at  Its  annual  commence- 
ment, and  also  one  the  following  year  at  Brown 
University.  Almost  all  young  A net-leans  of  cul- 
ture and  taste  take  to  writing  poetry,  but  net  all 
have  the  good  sense  to  leave  off  when  the  serious 
business  of  life  begins.  The  only  books,  besides 
those  already  mentioned,  published  by  Mr.  Curtis 
are  Prut  and  I,  a  very  pleasant  volume  made  up 
from  papers  which  originally  appeared  in  the 
pages  of  Putnam' $  MmtUy,%ni  Trumpt,  which  wu 
first  printed  atascrtallu  Barper'e  Weekly.  Trumps 
abounds  in  felicitous  sketches  of  charaeter,  and  in 
fine  delineations  of  certain  phases  of  social  and 
political  life;  but  the  story  failed  to  take  hold  of 
public  interest..  It  is,  Indeed,  rather  the  ground- 
work of  a  novel  than  a  finished  and  well-rounded 
work  of  art. 

During  these  years  the  slavery  question  had 
gradually  absorbed  public  attention,  and  had 
become  the  paramount  theme  in  the  press,  the 
pulpit,  and  the  lyeeum.  In  his  Newport  lounging* 
Mr.  Curtis  had  noted  the"  effect  produced  upon 
northern  society  by  the  slave  power,  and  his  at- 
tention had  been  called  to  the  necessity  of  com- 
bating tbe  evil  influence  by  every  popular  means. 
Accordingly  in  all  his  lectures,  like  many  of  the 
lyeeum  speakers  at  that  time,  he  discussed  the 
subject  with  great  freedom  and  force,  and  did 
much  te  arouse  and  enlighten  public  opinion  on 
this  vital  question,  and  te  prepare  the  way  fur  the 
great  revival  of  an  t! -slavery  feeling  In  the  North 
whioh  followed  the  personal  assault  upon  Charles 
Snmner  in  1856.  Mr.  Curtis  wu  one  of  a  large 
number  of  young  men  wno  Alt,  when  that  assault 
took  place,  that  the  time  for  decided  action  had 
come. 

In  the  year  just  mentioned  he  delivered  a  col- 
lege address  at  Middletown  upon  the  "Duty  of  the 
American  Scholar  to  Polities  and  the  Times,"  In 
which  the  situation  and  the  Impending  crisis 
were  discussed  from  an  anti-slavery  point  of  view. 
Be  went  upon  the  stump  fer  Fremont,  In  that 
year,  speaking  In  New  England,  New  Jersey,  and 
Pennsylvania,  and  entered  actively  Into  politics 
on  Stat  en  island,  where  he  Bved,  and  where  for 
many  yean  he  was  Chairman  of  the  Republican 
County  Committee.  Be  was  a  delegate  to  the 
second  National  Convention  of  the  Bepublioan 
party,  which  usembled  at  Ohlcagn  In  May,  1880. 
It  will  be  remembered  tbat  the  construction  of  a 
"platform"  wu  a  laborer  considerate  difficulty. 
There  were  stin  many  BepubUeens  Who  wished  to 
conciliate  the  border  States,  and  when  Mr. 
Joshua  B.  Giddlnsrt  moved  in  Convention  to 
add  to  the  first  resolution  the  "Bfe,  liberty,  and 
pursuit  of  happiness"  clause  from  the  Decla- 
ration of  Independence,  the  opposition  was 
loud  and  determined.  The  moUon  was  lost 
by  a  large  vote,  and  Mr.  Biddings,  who  had  urged 
Its  adoption  In  the  most  eloquent  and  impressive 
manner,  proposed  to  withdraw  from  the  Conven- 
tion; but  Mr.  Curtis  took  aa  early  opportunity  to 
renew  the  motion  la  a  slightly  modified  form. 
There  were  again  loud  cries  of  opposition.  Mr. 
Curtis  uked  whether  the  party  wu  prepared  at 


Its  second  National  Convention  to  vote  against 
the  great  charter  ef  American  liberty,  and  eae- 
tloned  the  delegates  te  beware  how,  there  In  the 
broad  prairies  of  the  West,  they  receded  front  the 
position  which  the  party  had  occupied  at  Pftav 
bnrgl  'and  refuted  to  repeat  the  w.,rds 
ef  the  Fathex*  of  the  BevelnttUa,  HU  elo- 
quent periods  acted  like  magic  en  the  Con- 
vention. The  amendment  wu  adept ed  unani- 
mously amid  wild  excitement,  the  great  multi- 
tude rising  and  giving  round  after  round  of  ap- 
plause. "Ten  thousand  voices,"  says  a  contem- 
porary report,  "swelled  Into  a  deafening  roar,  and 
for;  several  minutes  every  attempt  to  restore  order 
was  hopelessly  vain.  The  crowd  of  people  outside 
took  up  and  re-echoed  the  cheers,  making  a  scene 
of  excitement  and  enthusiasm  unparalleled  In  any 
similar  gathering."  It  wu  a  great  popular  tri- 
umph, and  was  of  vital  service  to  the  party,  net' 
t-ulj  in  loiaining  the  Influence  ef  Mr.  Olddlags 
and  his  followers,  but  In  swelling  the  entbaslasat 
whlofcgraoUd  ttupUtfarnyan*  ttsajanflirtatem,    i 

at  its  height  when  Mr.  Curtis  became  the  political 
editor  of  Harper't  Weekly,  which  he  seen  made  a 
power  In  the  Republican  party, and  la  the  country 
at  large.  He  won  and  kept  the  enthusiastic  per- 
sonal support  and  admiration  of  his  audience  at 
probably  no  other  editor  hu  succeeded  in  doing, 
with  the  tingle  exception  of  Horace  Greeley.  Hit 
position  was  strengthened  by  hit  never  seriously 
entertaining  proposals,  however  brilliant  and 
tempting,  that  would  interrupt  his  relations  with 
bis  readers.  Thus,  although  he  could  serve  u  a 
Begect  of  the  University,  of  which  he  was  finally 
chosen  Chancellor  In  1880,  and  as  a  non-resi- 
dent Professor  of  OcrneU  University  for 
four  years,  he  declined  la  IBM,  upon  the 
death  or  Mr.  Henry  J.  Raymond,  who  had  pre- 
viously asked  him  to  become  assistant  editor,  aa 
in  Tit.-:  Hon  to  the  chief  editorship  ef  the  New  York 
Time  Once  he  accepted  the  Bepubllcan  nomi- 
nation for  Representative  in  Congress,  knowing 
that  his  dlstriot  wu  hopelessly  Democratic,  and 
that  there  was  no  prospect  of  his  eleeUon.  In 
1867,  also,  he  served  la  the  State  Constitutional 
Convention,  In  which  body  he  noted  u  Chairman 
of  theOommitiee  on  Education  and  frequently  took 
part  in  the  debates,  making,  especially,  an  elabo- 
rate speech  in  favor  of  tbe  extension  of  the  fran- 
chise to  women,  a  measure  of  which  he  bed  been 
for  years  a  consistent  an  vacate. 

In  the  editorial  columns  ef  Barper'i  Weekly  and 
in  hit  public  addresses,  Mr.  Oartls  eary  ex- 
pounded and  advocated  a  reform  Of  the  Civil  Ser- 
vice, and  continued  his  sietadt  to  too  and  of  his 
career,  la  spite  of  the  wrath  ana.  TUlcule  of  the 
practical  politicians.  He  eccep tea  the  Chairman- 
ship cf  the  Civil  Service  Commission  when  It  wu 
first  created  in  1871,  under  Grant's  Administra- 
tion, with  sanguine  hopes  of  success.  Bat  la  1878, 
becoming  convinced  that,  yielding  to  the  pressure 
of  the  practical  politicians,  the  President  had 
changed  hit  views,  Mr.  Curtis  resigned,  and 
In  the  following  year  the  whole  project 
was  abandoned  for  the  flat,  Ho  presided 
over  the  Republican  State  Convention  la  187S 
and  In  a  notable  address  oa  r iteming  the  chair 
advocated,  la  the  most  outspoken  way,  opposition 
to  the  Third-Term  movement,  which  wu  then  la 
Its  lndpleaey.  He  also  participated  In  the  State 
C on veniic a  or  the  following  year  which  sclented 
delegatea  to  the  Ctaelnaatt  Conventton,  aad 
opposed,  but  In  Tata,  the  instruction  of  the 
delegaUon-at-large  for  Senator  Oenkllag.  Ho 
represented  his  Congressional  district  la  the  Na- 
Uenal  Convention  of  that  year,  and  at  the  begin- 
ning of  President  Hayes'  AdmlnlstraUen  wu  re- 
quested to  select  a  foreign  mission,  which  he  de- 
clined, and  he  also  declined  the  special  offer  of  the 
mission  to  Germany.  BUB  eonUcelnghlt  activity 
In  the  counsels  of  the  party,  he  hold  a  seat  la  the 
State  Convention  of  1877,  U  which  ha  again 
crossed  lancet  with  Senator  Oonkllng,  who, 
as  Chairman  of  the  OoBuntttee  oa  Platform, 
had  reported  an  elaborate  argument  against  the 
doctrine  that  national  omee-bolders  should  be  pro- 
hibited from  taking  part  la  polities,    Mr.  Oartls 


moved  to  strike  oat  tali  portloa^of  tho  platform, 
aad  Insert  an  amendment  oonmondlng  President 
Hayes,  whereupon  ImM Conkllng  made a  bitter 
attack  upon  the  great  OrrU  Swim  Beibrmar, 
wfcose  amendment  taa,  after  a  tons'  and  animated 
debate,  defeated  by  tho  dsoUlvs  rote  of  100  to  2BJ. 
It  wai  In  Senator  Oonttlng's  speech  on  this  osoa- 
■ton  that  occurred  tho  famous  reference  to  tho 
"men-milliners,  the  dilettanti  and  eerpetknighu 
la  polities,  who  devoted  their  energies  to  do 
nonaelsa  men  more  honest  than  themselves." 

Is  tho  State  Convention  of  187*  Mr.  Curtis 
again  appeared  ai  tho  eulogist  of  President 
Hayes.  In  tho  following  roar,  however,  ho  finally 
broke  with  tho  Bopnblloan  managers  la  Now 
Tort,  and  In  tho  eolumne  of  Htrper't  Weekly  pro- 
tested against  tho  principal  soninaOons  made  by 
tho  Saratoga  Convention  of  that  year/  HUeoans 
In  tho  paper  was  folly  endorsed  by  tho  pub: lab- 
or* In  an  opoa  (otter,  and  Mr.  Onrtli  formally 
severed  Ms  relation*  with  tho  party  organtzatloo, 
by  resigning  at  Chairman  of  tho  Stnten  Lliad 
local  Convention.  In  tho  following  year,  hftwever, 
ho  made  an  eflort  to  enter  tho  State  Ooorveintlon 
as  a  delegate,  bat  was  defeatedjn  this  attempt  by 
tho  ConUlagO-rant  combination,  and  subse- 
quently remained  Independent  Of  party  associa- 
tions until  October  last,  when  ho  again  enrolled 
hll  name  in  tho  Bepublloan  column,  with  the 
statement,  "I  shall  vote  the  Bepublloan  ticket 
thls;fall;  In  polities  I  regard  myself  as  an  Inde- 
pendent, but  when  It  comes  to  a  oho  Ice  as  be- 
tween Tammany  Hall  and  Its  -powerful  organlza- 
tlon^on  tho  ono  hand  and  tho  Kepubllc&n*  on  the 
other,  1  can  have  no  hesitation." 

Moanwhtlo  Mr.  Curtis  had  boon  elected  Presi- 
dent of  tho  Olvll  Service  Reform  Association  at 
the  annual  meeting  In  1839,  and  was  continued  In 
that  position  by  successive  annual  elections  down 
to  tho  present  time.  In  Juno,  1834,  ho  prestded 
over  a  meeting  of  Independent  Republicans  which 
took  action  against  tho  candidacy  of  James  a. 
Blaine,  who  had  Just  boon  nominated  fir  the 
Presidency  by  the  National  Convention  at  GUI 
oago,  and  In  tho  campaign  which  followed  he 
supported  tho  Demoeratlo  candidate,  Mr.  Clove* 
land,  in  tho  columns  of  Barner'*  W tekly.  In  the 
national  campaign  of  1888,  Mr.  Curtis  again  stood 
by  Mr.  Cleveland,  who,  ho  declared,  had  "made 
his  own  platform  In  his  Message,  and  there  had 
boon  nothing  in  his  Administration  which  had 
alarmed  the  business  Interests  of  tho  country.'' 
Mr.  Curtis  has  boon  la  such  poor  health  of  late 
that  he  has  boon  unable  to  take  an  active  part  In 
tho  pending  eampalga. 

Mr.  Curtis  was  married  In  1887  to  a  daughter  o( 
Mr.  Robert  O.  Shaw,  tho  eminent  philanthropist. 
For  many  year*  ho  had  resided  In  West  Now 
Brighton,  on  Staten  Island,  except  daring  tho' 
summer  months,  when  ho  sought  rest  and  relaxa- 
tion In  a/pleasant,  old-fashioned  country  homo  In 
the  village  of  Ashfleld,  Mass.  He  was  a  medium- 
sized,  well-built  man,  with  an  athletic  frame,  a 
largo  and  well-shaped  head,  a  thick  growth  of 
bushy  gray  hair,  and  strong, ^handsome  features' 
with  white  aide  whiskers,  a  pale,  ruddy  com- 
plexion, and  largo  gray  eye*,  row  men  bore  their 
years  so  well,  and,  though  ho  had  always  been 
such  a  hard  worker,  until  his  fatal  illness  over- 
took him  he  looked  younger  than  most  men  do  at 
fifty,  a  result  largely  due  to  his  love  for '  the  open 
air  of  tho  country  and  his  regular  alternations  of 
work  and  exercise. 


145 

together  they  are  Irresistible.     Mr.  Curtis  oo-  Buoh  a  figure  teat  cnoe  an  honor,  to  on? 

oupied  a  place  In  our  national   life  akin  culture  as  a  people  aid  a  hope  ot   the  beat 

to    that  .of    'Emerson.     That  U,    he    was  things  In  our  national  future.    Too  battle  foe 

a  thicker  and  a  maker  of  thinkers.    He  had  dvll  service  reform  carried  on  by  Curtis  fox; 

tot  the  pore  intellect  of  Emerson,  bat  the  ro  many  yours  was  certainly  not  a   losing* 

world  was  more  to  Jstm,  and  be  was  mora,  fight,  contemptuously  as  it  eras  regarded  by* 

practical.      The  work   af  each    was    dona  the  professors  of  practical  politics.    Oat  cf  ft 


largely  through  an  elevation  which  not  so 
much  approached  the  whole  mass  of  society 
as  i  t  -raised  disciples  who  widely  spread  the 
message  of  hnmanitarlanimn,  "We  by  no 
means  underrate  the  direct  work  of  Curtis  as 


hundred 
it     by 
to     the 
message. 


ninetyssaM     might     p\*d 

coldly     or     with      ridicule,     Mt 

hundredth     it    was     a      burotcijj 

Acd     tboae     hundredth     parrsj 


make   the   saving   remnant  of  society; 


an  editor  and  publicist,  but  undoubtedly  the   them  depends  the  carrying  out  of  the  id  \M 


bulk  of  bis  influence  was  through  themuia- 
tude  of  writers  of  lower  grade  who  were  in- 
spirtd'and  enlightened  by  him;— and  this  is 
to  be  one  of  the  master  minds. 

The  career  of  Mr.  Curtis  was  a  doable  one 
of  literary  man  and  politician;  but  the  first 
province,  as  years  went  on,  was  swallowed 
up"  by  .the  second.    By  this  we  mean  the 
province  of  pore  literature.     In   so   far  as 
journalism  may  be  called   literature  it  re- 
mained always  an  integral  part  of  his  labors. 
But  the  line  between  his  early  ambitions  as  a 
writer  and  his  later  position  as  a  publicist  fell  k<? 
and  social  philosopher  is  distinctly  drawn,  pi  tor 
There    la   room    for   lament   over    it,   ,for  jjrb 
American    authorship     had     some    of 


which  will  make  the  Bepabllo  what  it  was 
ordained  to  be  by  fata.  And  they  will  cirry 
them  out ;  oblcanexy  anil  corruption  will  not 
prevail,  despite  the  ninaty-nise;  the  good 
mtii,  tbongh  few,  will  conquer.  This  is  the 
law.  One  of  the  high  preachers  of  it  haa  guney 
fiom  among  us,  but  bis  example  remain-* 

ebcrmviOvttvwa,    Stf*  Ij  WV 
<vtrm  *TA*rr  ciiatju 


TIt 


i.  i   ,    : 


brightest  promise*  in  Curtis'  early  books. 
Prut  and  J  is  a  novel  which  justly 
led  the  public  to  expect  a  aeries  of  books 
of  this  class  of  a  high  grade,  and  Th* 
Potiphar  Papers  showed  a  satirical  power, 
akin  to  that  of  Lowell.  Without  doubt  It 
this  line  bad  been  continued  Mr.  Curtis 
would  have  secured  a  position  in  it  equal  to 
the  best  of  the  men  who  succeeded  him;  and., 
as  far  as  personal  distinction  is  concerned, 
the  divergence  into  his  subsequent  tasks  is  to 
be  deplored.  But,  as  we  said  at  the*  outset, 
be  was  a  man  of  conscience;  he  felt  Impelled 
to  take  part  in  the  living  and  breathing  affairs 
of  the  world;  be  never  ceased  to  be  a  student 
of  literature,  bnt  his  genuine  lifawork  left  bit 
early  ventures  far  behind. 

Mr:  Curtis  stands  beyond  everything  else 
as  an  example  of  the  American  politician  a* 
hie  best.    We  may  aay  this  without  intend- 
ing to  endorse  all  bis  opinions  as  editor  of  ?* 
Earper't  Weekly,  or  as  expressed  on  numer 


lAith  of  George  William  Curtis'  wTfl  be 
>nly  ia  many  ways.  The  vfrice  of  the" 
•«'<;  i>e  beard  no  more. '  Tb*. orator, 
speech  was  heavy  with  thought  and 
its  brilliant  with  the  display   of   Imatrlnetinn, 


tl 

i  • 

- 1 


listied  sentence;  we  warm  wit! 
>1  strong  in  sincerity,  whose  nit 1< >- 
ar.d  graceful  bearing  wc*cem- 
deatlj  as  the  humble  instruments 

ihg  convSction,  or  In  the  exp^ssfon 

n'a  ioy  or  lamentation.    The  citizen 

■    ii!»nm>  i!  who  in  all  his  endeavors,  iu 

h  and  in  his  action,  thought,  r.i  *  o< 

»]  the  republic,  and  fnfs  was  kuowi 

o  that  they  who  ■  'uld  not  share  • 

»    Tinted  eheerfully  the  honesty  of  tin; 

••   .-.     As  a  man,  bis  death  will  seem  to 

i«     i  personal  low,  although  they  never 

.    with  him.  although  they  never  saw 

,  fir  he  tint   sat  in  tne  «£a*y  <hairw*s 

-  lion    if  the   !as»n  that  walked  t!ie 


on 

*   of    A^'.O.i  and  New  York.    To  him 

•■   i  ..  :l      n. 'utlenun  "  might 

•    |  .  '  v    :  R-ftutd  it  tw  the  mere 

theti     i'  of  n\>.  :  Ittarj  eulogy  to  describe  htm 

as  the  ideal  American  gentleman  in  thought, 

nncr  and  in  speech. 

iii  orator.  .    aizsn  and  an  example  of 


ons  prominent  public  occasions.  The  course 
of  his  journal  on  our  Industrial  nolicy  and  manhood  his  place  will  not  be  quickly  filled, 
other  matters  is  opposed  to  our  own  cot <rio-  «ven  iu  these  days  of  sudden  leaps  to  suc- 
tions, but  the  judgment  just  expressed  in  ^s  and  of  mnstaioom  reputations.  But  the 
nowise  suffers  from  that  fact  The  hone  ity,  hn*  °l  *?££**  *°  SSSfSSlSSSi 
the  ability,  and  the  dignity  of  this  noble  £  *  disputed  tradition,  w«d  the  KOordef tfis) 
teacher  are  beyond  dispute  He  edu-  ^mp,n^  e^Q  b  a^lS!^%ni*W?t^ 
cated  onr  lawmakers,  oar  office-holders,  fcSJSS^ JHfgPft^.  ****** 
».«pM.f«-  e«»  «ffl««  in.  i/i.u  te  in- blamed  for  their  jealous  preservation 
?"?**»■  JL/P*,\  v"V  .lnd^  If  all  thttfss  ptlnted.  The  book  is,  after  an, 
,row.»?0?rtJ7 1*ftia^ti,n,,.^T  T? 9,iD_0^  Ibe  life-beat  to  jK,sterity. 

Wliea  Mr.  Curtis  was  one  of  the  editors  of 


Ok  a  of  the  most  genuinely  diBtinguiflhed  of 
contemporary  Americans  has  gone  to  his  rest. 
George  William  Coxtls  was  a  true  marker 
mind,  and  bis  work  was  informed  firs:  and 
last  by  conscience  which  knew  no  shadow  of 
turning  front  what  he  waa  convinced  was  the 
right  Where  y«  u  have  such  a  eombina'lon 
the  result  must  be  momentous;  ettaer  with- 
out the  other  might  fail  of  good  to  the  world,— 


porattd  througb  seoond,  third,  or  fourth 
hands~-fn~Iaws  which,  experience  baa  showu  to 
be  beneficial.  In  this  way  the  leaders  often 
strike  the  mark;  ridiculed,  it  may  be,,  as  itn- 
practicable,  fheir  ideas'peroolate  thcm«-=-oi 


the  old  "Putnam's  Monthly,"  when  be  wrote 
^"The  Potiphar  Papers,"  "Prue  snd  I H  and 
"  Trumps,"  he  was  undoubtedly  strongly 
Dmlerthe  influence  of  Thackeray,  and  for 
ignorance  or  indifference;  at  last  and  in  most  ^ia  he  wa*  then  reproached.  "Tim  Potiphar 
unexpected  places  Jhej^ftelke  root;  apostles  papers  "  was  called  a  New  Terlr  version  of 
are  raised  ap  who  carry  on  the  wor*  rf  The  Bo^k  of  Snobs."  The  rttarw*  was  not 
triumph.  Bo  Oarriaob  and  Greeley  wi-rt-d.  ^lthont  truth'  He  toolt  *»»**•«*  »»  hls 
afteT  methods  less  sttiotty  inteii 
those  of  Emerson.  Cnrtis  waa  ot 
each  of  those  great  seen;  he  rt*d  •***,  tasae  * 

resistless  pnrpoU,  the  s.mo  purrfe  ^  Mrt  fc0"^3   ra(lTetl     f"    ^    *****    ^ 
,      *VT.    .,,  r     w  w  "^     fltructed        by        the      i  greater        man. 

the  same  love  of  his  fellows. 


plev  wi  rt^t   !wlUlont  truth,    ue  took  Thackeray  as  Ms 

lleotu  tifcaa  •a,0<J*l:  he  not  only  preached  his  belief  in  the 

t  Tta  i^i*«lwii,oynic  "~ for  *° il  w*»  tne  fashion  to  tegard 

-  jLJT-J^he  creator  of  Col. ^ewerjmt— bnt  his  own 


gtnd  yet  there  were  mtr»y  felicitous 
touches  in  those  earlier  pages,  whreh  Thack- 
eray himself  might  have  envied.  Bat  "Nile 
gates  of  a  Howadji,-  "Lotus  Eating,"  as 
swell  as  tJte.  books  mentioned,  art  cotupara- 
.lively  unknown  to  the  yotthgev  generation, 
f  It  was  his  habit,  a  habit  confirmed  by  the 
practice  of  many  year*,  to  talk  each  month, 
seated  comfortably  In  his  Easy  Chair,  concern- 
ing the  ever  changing  mental  and  material 
fashions  of  mankind;  to  point  out  in  humor- 
jous  vein  the  petty  weaknesses ;  to  glorify, 
prith  more  animated  voice,  a  good  or  noble  . 
deed :  to  rebuke  In  withering  irony  the  mean-   he  was  lLible  is*  said  to  have  been 


146 

a  man  of  uiibldinished  character— a 
gentleman  in  the  highest  sense  ol 
i  ho  word.  What  he  was  in  this  latter 
regard  was  finely  illustrated  by  his 
conduct  when,  like  Sir  Walter  Scot  r, 
through  no  fault  of  his  own,  the  fail- 
ure of  a  publishing  firm  with  which 
he  was  connected  left  him  heavily 
involved,  and  when,  like  the  noble- 
hearted  romancer,  he  went  resolutely 
to  work  to  discharge  the  obligations 
against  Lira.    The  amount  for  which 


about  9100/000?  but  in  1873,  sixteen 
years  later,  he,  paid  off  the  last  dollar 
of  the  debt,  and  felt  that  he  was  a 
free  man  again.  This  he  did  by 
writing  and  lecturing,  and  per- 
haps he  shortened  his  days  by 
his    exertions    to    accomplish    his 


Hess  of  snobbery  in  society,  the  crime  of  cor- 
ruption in  high  places.  Nothing  that  per- 
tained to  humanity  was  to  him  foreign.  The 
ranee  of  subjects  seemed  unlimited.  By  htsl 
treatment  of  these  subjects  Will  he  undoubt- 
edly be  best  known.  If  the  subjects  them- 
selves were  ephemeral,  the  treatment  was  for 
the  coming  years. 

Comparison,  are  made  easily,  and  It  I,  not  J****       But    b^  jepuUtion   was 
wrprtsingthat^r.  Curtis,  the  essayist,  was.  w°rth   m°™  h,fan.th*n   lif«  £ 

tened  frequently  to  Addison  or  Steele  or!  ,elf'  and  he  begrudged  no  expendi- 
ng or  Thackeray.  There  were  traces  of}  ture  of  time  *n(*  8fcr«»sTth  that  en- 
these  writers  In  his  monthly  essays,  but  »bled  him  to  dr»w  nearer  to  the 
>  peonllar  flavoring  was  bis  own.  There  wished-for  goal. 
was  a  savor  of  the  soil ;  not  strong  and  rank,  Mr.  Curtis  was  a  genuine  patriot, 
as  in  the  works  of  certain  nitre- Americans,  He  might  differ  from  men  as  wise  as 
but  like  the  smell  of  a  virgin  wood  or  the  himself  on  political  questions,  but 
meadow  land  of  a  new  country.  He  had  the  no  one  could  doubt  that  he  loved  his 
humor  characteristic  of  the  gannt  American,  country  and  was  anxious  that  it 
bnt  it  was  mellowed,  free  from  exaggeration,  8hould  prosper  in  the  broadest  pos- 
klndly  even  whea  It  was  used  In  rebuke.  B,KI-  „Mi-  -  T„  ^%,u  ...--^  *„  h_ 
His  sentences  were  fragrant  with  flowers  of  8lKb'e  «*°8f-  *»  f^^nS 
mecb,  natural  floweS.  such  as  are  still  ^owed  himself  to  be  a  courageous 
found  in  old-fashioned  gardens  trimmed  with  man-  He  was  not  to  be  deterred  by 
box.  In  these  gardens  of  speech  the  figures  *e™re  criticism  from  following  the 
familiar  to  an  antlqne  eye  were  seen  occa-  Jead  of  *"*  convictions.  What  he 
sionally.  The  men  took  snuff  and  whispered  thought  he  ought  to  do  as  an  Ameii- 
*-/  ames  with  powder,  patches  and  painted  can  citizen,  that  he  did,  regardless 
fans.  The  compliments  were  courtly,  of  any  consequences  to  himself,  and 
There  was  a  clipped  and  trained  tree  In  the  in  so  doing  set  an  example  that  his 
foreground.  But  this  love  of  olden  days  was  critics,  as  well  as  his  political  associ- 
never  affectation,  never  pedantry.  Nor  as  ates,  admired. 
>e  grew  older  was  he  like  the  old  man  of 
loraee  who  spoke  only  of  the  past  Always 
Atholicin  taste,  his  sympathies  went  out 
she  more  in  all  directions  as  mankind  multi- 
plied around  him.  The  same  man  who  re- 
membered the  Italian  singers  of  golden  voice 
wrote  aDpreciattvely  of  Wagner,  of  at  least  refined  and  elevated  at  sixty-eight 
called  for  fair  play.  Although  he* was  faith-  **  it  had  been  at  forty.  He 
ful  to  the  literary  loves  of  his  youth,  he  wel-  was.  withal,  a  truly  eloquent 
corned  the  new  comers,  and  in  some  cases  his  speaker,  and  pronounced  more 
fceartwas  touched,  so'  that  there-was  a  faint  than   one    oration    that    will    live 

SSil*  h£BCle*/henilSPOiCe  ?  lhe",1  u  fOT  »  century  to  come.  Pew  of  those 
public.    He  never  preached  as  front  a  pulpit  _u  j  ..v      i  ^»         •   ,»». 

la  these  essays ;  yet  what  wholesome  lesson.  Z*°  *?^  the  V1*"™ &$*  days 
Were  tanght,  lessons  of  abiding  good  to  men  wh!n  **£  lyceum  was  in  its  glory, 
Kbd  women.  could  begin  to  compare  with  him  as 

fc  In  this  essayist  the  man  will  live.  For  fhe  an  orat°r.  and  no  thoughtful  young 
Ajsayist  and  the  man  were  one.  The  cheer-  man  desirous  of  becoming  a  success - 
jTol,  kindly,  pure  and  Christian  philosophy  of  ^1  public  speaker  could  hear  him 
thr writer  was  the  goide  te  the  feet  of  the  without  large  profit. 
man  who  was  not  unacquainted  with  ad-;  But,  after  all,  it  was,  what  George 
yersity  and  sorrow.  In  the  literary  world  William  Curtis  was  as  a  man  that 
there  are  startling  antitheses  of  practice  and  suggests  out  greatest  loss  in  his 
profession.    Seldom  is  there  such  unity  of  death,  and  his  influence  as  such  will 

^Sl^on/tL^tt  o^Z"*  **]£?**  ta.ere  Jive  long  after  him;  and  thus,  like 
— svfaaUu.d.tt«llfe0#MT.CaAb»       -       *the   righteous  man  of  old,  though 

dead  he  Will  continue  to  speak  to 
the  land  of  which  he  was  so  loyal  a 
citizen. 


Again,  Mr.  'Curtis  was  an  elegant 
writer.  His  English  was  well-nigh 
faultless,  and  although  as  an  editor 
he  was  compelled  to  write  so  much, 
his  style  never  suffered,  but  was  as 


SBOKBl 


WII.LU1 


7ST1*. 


as.  .oxti 

The  death  of  George  William  Car- 
i'.r,  is  \  rational  loss,  and  will  be>rec- 
oguized  as  tuch  from  the  Atlantic  to 
the  Pacific.    He  was,  to  begin  with. 


8«*fo>,  r+oi«ja ,  V* 'X' W 

"OUR  DCAfX  PWO^fttT." 

Tribute  Paid  f  fftm  Miatorr  of  Cmt|« 
vrfUiaaa  caeftf*. 

At  the  Harrison' SaWrt*  Cbarch  in  Dor- 
chester yesterday.  Rev.  W.  R.  Lord  ro- 
f erred  hi  bis  sermon  to-  the  lata  Geerrs 
William  Cortts-Jn  nhstaace.  as  follows: 

I  want  to  make  thstjnew  tart  for  ow  »m> 
pose  today:  "Holy  men  of  modern  times 
speak  a»  tb.e>  are  moved  by  ^th?  Holy 
Spirit."  The  present  tense  bast  expresses 
God's  relation-toonr  Hainan  Ufa  and  his- 
tory—not God  '•m»de.".nnt  Goa makes; not 
so  much  God  "spoke,"  aslSpd  sneaks.  Holy 
men  of  oJ<retid  specie,  bat  theV  spoke  for 
their  own  generation  the  truth  it  mast 
ueecloa.  The  samo^Go'k.  who  spoke  than 
speaks  now  through  onr  own  proahets  the 
special  truths  we*  most  need. 

Tbai.k  God  fdrrhe  Living  prophets !  And 
while  it  is  immensely  important  that  we 
should  reverence  the  prophets  of  the  ohutrf 
time,  it  is  not  IiaJf  so  tmportam  as  that  wo 
should  hear  and  ohey  the  prophets  of  our 
own  time.  One  has  Just  died,  and  while 
vet  the  tones  of  hi«i-voice  vibrate  in  oar 
ears,  let  us  acain  h&tr-his  Basaaspa. 

Every  i ndi  virtual  prophet  has  his  own 
special  Uath  to  sneak  j&L, work  to  do. 
Goorvrn  William  CurtTs  Stood  for  truth  in 
the  whole;  and  in  whatever  way  he  ap- 
proached humanity,  whether  in  its  social, 
economic  or  literary  aspects,  it  was  to  sum- 
mon it  to  purity  and  righteousness.    - 

Ha  was  not  conrineu  in  his  efforts,  and 
many  noble  causes  are  higher  today  be- 
cause he  livet.  But  it  was  lor  him,  as  for 
all  prophets,  to  emphasize  some  one  t  ins* 
I  in  life,  and  above  att.'he  becamethe  prophet 
ofnoiitical  reform.  ~ 

Ho  saw,  as  waran  all  see.  that  the  whole 
pyramid  of  corrupt-on-  iu  omr  government, 
city,  state  and  national,  rests  upon  the 
spoils  system  :  that  toe  ladder  upon  «  hich 
small  and  selftsli-and  venal  men  crawl  to 
power,  is  held  up  by  the  seekers  arte*  ©Mice 
and  plunder.  ■  -     •— ■..  •  •  1 

Mr.  Curtis  was-Also  the  prophet  of  politi- 
cal independence—  Always,  hu  said. loyalty 
to  conscience,  to  the  caftan  of  pure  govern- 
ment, and  not  tc  party.  Be  ready  at  any 
time  to  torsike  vour  party,  bat  nevor  your 
cause.  What  was  the  source  of  Mr.  Curtis' 
▼isiou,  power  and  courage?  1  answer  that 
it  was.  as  with  all  the  prophets,  he  was 
"moved  by  the  HolvSHrft."  .Mr.  Curtis  was 
a  religious  min.  He  believed  in  God  *ad 
caught  his  vision  of  the  world  as  God 
wanted  it    *.  bile  looking  up         -     — 


MR.  CUrTTlff^ri^VsW^ 

M 


A  Glimpse  of  Hhrt  as  a  Young  Mm'  Well- 
known  People  who  were  his  Friends— The ' 
Memory  of  his  Courtship-Storlesjof  the 
Lecturer.  ____i"        i  '*%?'-,  ' 

NKWToaT.^Bn*T.  JWJ. 

Hie  fi rst  (Jroppiag  of  the  aaiVnnin  lea|!  tfbat 
more  bean ti  ml  or  mora  fitting  time  foa»  -poet 
to  pr.ssaway  from  «artb  than  now.  wlaaa  the 
summer  i*  «till  in  Its  full  beapty— theljsSlty  of 
inatnritT— and  only  the  most  delicate.  *hai%.  tbe 
moir,  fragile  dowers,  and  themosjt  tendirtaaTes 
fi'!  in  the  ground?  The  man  wliros*  dosth  wa 
mourn  today  was  of  so  exiuittt*  a  nature, 
so  refined  by  the  long  yaars«of  a  ln¥  civoa  to 
noble  thonglit  and  high  eneaaew  that  it 
seemed  eminently  fitting  the  grosser  tenemeat 
of  clay,  onee  so  vigorous,  so  full  of  manly 
Rtran.-ta'aud  beauty,  shouW  have  waxed  frail 
and  tesder.  Tka  ethereal  sfcd  apirAaal  beauty 
of  old  arer-fbe  old  age;  that  erowna  a  Ufa  wall 
lived— had  set  its  silver  saaloipoa  oar  atlvet- 
tongue  d  speaker  and  one  f  anci  es  that  he  faded 
gradually  away  from  as  tin  little  was  left  save 
that  beautiful  voice,  the  memory  ol  which 
shall  long  ring  in  our  ears,  and  tbeooWa  spirit, 
whieh  even  in  the  valley  of  the  shadow  of 
death  gave  heed  to  its  life  work.  OB  fhe  brink 
of  the  grave  be  still  called  hack  to  as  bis  chosoa 


•  atrhword  "Reform."  and  the  chaise  that  he 
hat  laid  down  we  must  take  up  and  continue 
hi»  work  ufunwt  mar. 

But  who  »hall  take  LU  place?  Where  among 
"nr  roan?  men  shall  we  find  one  disttng uisbed 
b j  the  exquisite  grace  of  manner,  the  dignity, 
the  high-breeding  of  George  William  Curtii? 
He  was  an  American  gentleman  of  the  highest, 
because  of  the  meat  intellectual  tyee.  and  as 
unassuming  as  the  man  of  tree  worth  and 
nobility  of  character  always  is.  All  honor,  all 
praise  to  such  a  man.  and  may  his  high  exam 
pie  ever  find  follow  em  among  the  young  men 
of  our  repnhliet 

It  is  of  Mr.  Curtis  as  associated  with  Newport 
that  I  would  like  to  amy  a  few  words,  however 
and  In  order  to  do  to  I  snail  acre  to  go  back 
into  the  dim  past,  when  my  recollections  of 
him  begin  here,  in  the  early  fifties.  Mr.  Cur- 
tis was  a  gay  young  man  of  society  in  those 
early  days— end  the  writer  of  the  present  arti- 
cle was  in  her  sixtn  year. 

Although  he  was  fond  of  parties  and  balls,  as 
is  the  average  young  man.  healthy  in  body  and 
xnied,  his  tastes  drew  him  toward  literary  peo- 
ple, as  is  natural  in  one  who  was  already  an  au- 
thor. Instead  of  spending  the  summer  at  one  of 
the  vast  hotels  which  then  contained  Newport's 
summer  population,  ha  lived  at  the  .Old'  Cliff 
House,  a  delightful  but  primitive  hostelry,  near 
the  site  of  which  the  present  Cliff  House  and 
cottages  are  built  Here  wave  gathered  to- 
gether, during  the  seaswa  of  which  I  speak,  a 
-are  summer  party  of  friends.  Including  the 
..■-"»t  Longfellow  and  his  beautiful  wife,  Mr. 
Tom  Appleton,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Freeman,  the  art- 
Ms.  Mrs.  Julia  Ward  Howe,  Mr.  Curtis  and 
-them. 

A  photograph  is  still  in  existence 
of  this  merry  group,  in  which  all 
are  smiling— probably  at  some  bon-mot 
of  Mr.  Appleton 's— and  Longfellow,  wearing 
a  high  stove-pipe  hat  of  the  absurd  shape  then 
in  fashion.  looks  benign  and  beaming,  as  if  he 
greatly  enjoyed  the  joke  of  the  thing.  For  the 
protracted  sittings  before  the  camera,  which 
were  necessary  tn  those  days,  had  to  be  taken 
either  as  a  most  sober  and  dreadful  earnest,  or 
as  a  hntre  jest 

Mr.  Curtis  was  then  usually  called  "the 
Howadji"  by  his  friends,  and  what  a  Howadjl 
might  wear  was  a  source  of  wonder  and  mys- 
tery to  my  infant  mind.  I  fancy  that  Mr.  Cur- 
tis was  a  sort  of  pet  with  the  rest  of  the  party, 
who  were  for  the  most  part  older  than  he,  and 
already  married.  . 

Indeed,  the  Old  Cliff  House  was  quit*  a  fami- 
ly hotel,  and  unfortunately  for  Mr.  Curtis  his 
room  was  somewb.it  noisily  situated,  next  to 
the  nursery  of  tbo  Howe  children. 

I  suppose  that  some  one  must  occupy  the  upper 
rooms  at  hotels— which  were  not,  in  the  ante- 
elevator  days,  as  agreeable  as  the  upper  rooms 
at  synagogues  and  feasts  are  supposed  to  be. 
Young  men  and  children,  who  are  sound  sleep- 
ers, and  don't  mind  the  stairs,  are  conveniently 
disposed  of  there.  , 

Poor  Mr.  Cnrtls,  who  enjoyed  tire  balls  and 
bops  of  Newport,  did  not  retire  to  rest  very 
arty  .  But  hi*  next-door  neighbors  did— and 
were  on  the  alert,  at  the  "screech  of 
dawn,'*  when  he  would  fain  have  slept 
a  little  longer.  They  and  their  nurse 
mads  such  a  noise  over  the  morning  ablutions, 
that  Mr.  Curtis  was  wont  to  complain,  half 
jestingly,  of  the  dreadful  racket  made  by  the 
Howe  children  and  their  loud-voiced  tin  bath- 
tub. 

Some  of  the  gentlemen  at  the  Cliff  House 
practised  pistol  shooting,  but  I  don't  think  Mr. 
Curtis  was  of  the  number.  I  have  a  sad  mem- 
ory of  a  beloved  silver  mag  wig  mug— lying  on 
the  grass,  with  a  great  wound  in  its  side,  some 
one  having  taken  it  for  a  pewter  cup  ?  We  had 
a  delightful  "jogglimr-board"  on  this  Sams'. 
lawn— and  I  remember  the  poet  Long- 
fellow's baby  daughter  sporting  about 
in     its     vicinity.     The     boys     were     some* 


147 

what  older,  and  with  the  assurance  of  young 
gentlemen  of  six  and  eight  years  of  age,  held 
an  animated  argument  with  their  father  as  to 
the  propriety  of  bis  name,  which  they  declared 
ought  to  be  Shortftllow  rather  than  Longfellow 

Mr.  Curtis's  courtship  was,  in  part  at  least, 
carried  on  on  our  beautiful  island  of  Aqnid- 
neck;  a  year  ox  two  after  the  pleasant  Cliff 
House  days,  there  were  rumors  of  bis  engage- 
ment to  Miss  Anna  *Jhaw— whom  I  remember  as 
a  handsome  young  woman,  wearing  her  hair  in 
curls.  It  is  pleasaut  to  think  that  the 
romantic  spell  of  this  peaceful  spot  was  upon 
those  two  young  people,  and  that  they  perhaps 
wandered  through  its  deep-wooded  valleys  and 
drove  together  along  Its  quiet  erass- fringed 
roads;  while  they  were  deciding  to  take  to- 
gether that  longer  journey  through  life  which 
has  just  ended  for  one  of  them. 

We  were  all  much  interested  in  the  publica- 
tion of  Mr.  Curtis'  novel  "Trumps,"  in  Harper's, 
Weekly,  although  I  was  too  much  of  a  child  to 
appreciate  it  then  and  never  sot  beyond  the 
first  chapters.  The  characters  of  the  story  were 
drawn  according  to  the  on  dlt  from  Boston  peo- 
ple whom  we  all  knew— or  whom  oar  fathers 
had  known.  But  as  the  lady  from  whom  the 
portrait  of  the  heroine  was  said  to  have  been 
copied  is  still  living  it  would  manifestly  not  be 
proper  to  give  her  name. 

Of  tbe  noble  struggle  which  Mr.  Curtis  made 
—and  teade  successfully— to  pay  off  the  debt  of 
his  publishers,  for  which  he  was  not  responsi- 
ble, save  morally,  w e  used  to  hear  at  times,  in 
the  days  when  I  remember  him  in  his  full  pow- 
er as  a  brilliant  orator,  and  handsome  man, 
with  brown  hair  and  whiskers"  and  the  finely 
formed  chin,  which  he  always  wore  shaved. 
Brilliant,  confident  find  winning  speaker  as  ha 
was,  there  must  have  been  a  time  in  the  begin- 
ning wh«n  be  sabered  from  statre  frljrht  to 
judtfp  from  the  following  story  my  mother  nsed 
tntnllns  with  much  amusement,  how  Mr.  Curtis 
at  Ms  firs*  lecture,  advanced  and  said.  ''Ladies 
AA  geetteteen.  Hj»  Pltoroless  Bott,"  with  a  so- 
lemnitv,  which  was  changed  to'  confusion^ 
pvhen  he.  psrtdseo  his  error.  ■. For  -of  etmrssjr 

fiad  murm^^*^mtmmmiimm  to? 

orisrtejewg. wpasajsjaj  ulim"BSIl%-^mmmm 
glimpse  of  him  here  at  Newport;  where  bej 
rami?  for  the  sessions  of  the  Civil  Service  ReM 
farm  League,  and  sometimes,  merely  to  visit 
old  friends'.  But  I  doubt  whether  the  rush  and 
whirl  ef  the  modern  Newport  life,  were  alto*' 
gether  atrrceable  to  the  busy  literary  man.  with- 
in? scholarly  tastes,  for  his  stays  were  brief,      l 

His  conversation  was  delightful  and  entirely 
free  from  that  pedantry  which  marks  the  man 
of  half-culture.  Be  was  not  such  a  brilliant,. 
irrepressible  talker  as  our  dear  Autoorat,  buai 
his  speech  had  a  great  charm ;  and  although  bs> 
did  not  >-"k  to  take  the  lead  In  conversation  he 
was  willing  to  do  his  part,  and  did  it  incompa- 
rably well.  He  bos  been  called  cold,  but  t 
think  he  was  calm  rather  than  celd,  with  a' 
certain  sadness,  as  of  one  who  had  been  obliged.1 
from  the  force  of  bis  convictions  and  beJlef,- 
to  take  a  more  active  part  in  the  battle  of> 
affairs  than  his  tastes  would  hare  led  him  to • 
assume.  j 

I  remember  his  telling  some  amnaiag  stories- 
of  mistakes  that  had*  been  made  upon  the  lee.? 
ture-platform.  by  people  who  confused  his; 
name  with  that  of  Cable;  as  the  Initials  of  the* 
two  names  are  the  same,  they  are  sometime* 
confounded— and  Mr.  Curtis  and  his  audience 
were  alike  astounded  when  he  was  Intro.: 
troduced  to  them  as  the  brilliant  and  popular 
novelist  Georce  Washington  Cable. 

1  last  saw  him  at  one  of  those  Newport 
gatherings,  where  it  seemed  most  appro- 
priate that  be  should  be— at  a  meeting  of 
the  Town  and  Country  Qua.     It  was  .held 

at  tbe  house  of  an  artist,  where  all  the 
surroundings  were  of  the  refined  beauty  which . 
only  the  loving  hand  and  knowledge  of  the 
artist  can  create.  The  presence  of  such  a  dis- 
tinguished man  as  Mr.  Curtis,  added  eclat  to  an 


already  brilliant  occasion.  Bnt  he  was  as  i_ 
simple  and  dignified  in  manner.  He  gave  mo  a 
few  kindly  words  of  greeting— calling  me  by 
the  childish  nickname  which  one  never  out- 
grows to  those  who  remember  one's  early  days 
—to  the  valued  friends  of  one's  parents. 

Peace  be  to  his  memory  I  But  a  few  days  ago* 
he  was  with  us,  and  one  of  us,  tn  this  busy, 
struggling  world,  now  he  has  fought  the  good 
fight— fought  it,  and  won  it  and  remains  to  at 
only  as  a  shining  Instance  of  high  oouraga  end 
steadfast  virtue,  a  precious  memory  and  sushis, 
example.  Flokxx  ci  Howb  h**v- 

8osttr>%TrnLnjQr,pf-#  Stft,  l%l  ffu 

MX.  CftntTTS  A8  A  POLTTICtAX. 

George  William  Curtis's  long  and  honora- 
ble career  before  the  American  people,  in 
which  his  face  and  form  have  become  fami- 
liar to  all  classes,  Tana  been  overflowing  with 
Incidents  showing  to  what  extent  a  scholarly 
man,  liberally  endowed  by  nature  and  gifted 
with  an  abnormally  unyielding  vertebral 
column,  can  accomplish  In  the  purification 
of  political  end  public  affair^  This" enlight- 
ened critte.  of  American  politics,  ThOjM 
nature  revolted  et  everything  mean,  and 
degrading  wherever  It  might  present  itself, 
made-  en  indelible  impression  upon  our 
modest  of  political  thinking.'1  He  wee  ever 
ready  te^bettle  with?  wrong,  whether  it  ap- 
peared in  abstract  Opinion,  Vre.  concretely  in 
acts  of  oppression  o*  hypocrisy.  As  »  hater 
of  slavery,,  a  constant  and  tjowerful  oppo- 
nent of  fntrigulng  politicians^  however  high 
placed,  amjudent  friend  of  civil  service 
reform,  and^the  value  of  bis  iisi  i  leas  to  that 
cause  cannot  be  over-estimated,  a'e an  advo- 
cate of  woman  suffrage,  and  es  an  Indepen- 
dent, ever  since  the  Cincinnati  convention 
of  1872,  fearlessly  uttering  his  convictions  at 
all  proper  and  seasonable  times,  Mr,  Curtis 
stands  forth,  today  ee  one  of  those  courege- 
ous  Americans  who  have  nooly  *  per  for  need 
e  high  mission  in  life  end  consequently  leave 
to  posterity  en  example  and  a  record  which 
will  grow  brighter  as  the  years  recede.    \ 

George  William  Cnrtls*  carry  fell  under 
the  ban  of  the  Conservatives.  It  wee  the 
'Union  savers"  who  detested  Mm  prior  to 
thewsrof  the  Rebellion.  "  He  wee  announced 
to  speak  in  Philadelphia  in  Deoember,  1860, 
before  the  People's  Literary  Institute,  on 
"The  Poller  of  Honesty."  Thtky  on  tbe  face  of 
it,  does  not  seem  to  be  an  inflammable  topic, 
but  the  prevaiflng  JioTthern^ style  wee  then 
to  avoid  ell  appearance^  of .  offence  to  tbe 
South,  end  the  ball  was"  refused,  for  the. 
delivery  of  this  lecture~',6n  -'.the  ground 
that  it  would  cause  a  riot '  This  incident  Is 
rehearsed  here  to.  show  bow  often  Mr. 
Cnrtls  mm  elnisil  ml  pinrnliii "  siiallfeenl  -mid 
bow  the  crowd  fine  lly  veers  to  the  side  that 
to  right  Mr.  Curtis's  political  battles'  with 
Roecoe  Conkling,wbo  regarded  with  supreme 
contempt  anybody  holding  tbe  opinion 
that  the  use  of  Federal  patronage  In  elec- 
tion!* to  incompatibl*  with  true  republi- 
canism, ere  en  important  pert  of 
the  history  of  New  York  politics,  beonuee 
the  "Man-Milliner"  quit*  VuejtjUtohed  bis 
redoubtable  senatorial  opponent.  It  Wta 
found  in  these  encounters  that  for  virile 
English  Conkllng.  with  all  bis  adjectives, 
was  no  match  at  all  for  Curtis,  and  when  it 
came  to  cutting  end  penetrating  sarcasm 
Conkling  proved  himself  the  veriest  bungler 
when  contrasted  With  •  foeman  whom  he  so 
often  derided  for  his  unpractical  views.    But 


take  the  verdict  of  the  country  on  these  two 
men  today,  which  would  rank  th«  highest 
1b  pnbllc  estUaatloBf  Curtis'*  contention 
has  Issued  1b  the  constant  though  retarded 
progress  ot  civil  service  reform.  Conkllng's 
contention  culminated  in  the  assassination 
of  a  President.  — 

Mr.  Curtis  had  the  happy  fate  Co  concentrate 
upon  himself  all  the  tobobi  of  those  who 
eoald  not  bear  to  have  any  ideal  standard  set 
op  is  politics.  Although  the  chosen  intimate 
of  those  leaders  who  founded  and  built  np 
the  Republican  party,  he  was  frequently  the 
victim  of  savage  vituperation  because  he 
never  hesitated  to  denounce  every  practice 
tending  to  reaction  or  to  selfish  in- 
terest and '  corruption  in  public  life, 
whether  found  in  the  party  with 
which  he  was  nominally  connected  or  in  the 
opposite  organization.  The  "courtesy" 
group  of  United  States'  Senators,  of  which 
Conkllng  was  so  conspicuous  and'  appro- 
priate a  representative,  always  looked  upon 
Mr.  Curtis  as  a  writer  and  speaker  worthy  of 
not  the  slightest  quarter  from  men  whose 
business  it  was  to  carry  elections 
and  so  dictate  th*  country's  policy. 
After  all,  however,  Mr.  Cnrtls's  voice 
and  pen  were  probably  more  effective  in 
Influencing  popular  opinion  than  all  the 
efforts  of  those  who  denounced  him  because 
fearing  that  he  was  despoiling  them  of  their 
vocations  as  practical  politicians.  Thought, 
pluck,  Intelligence*  culture  and  a  high  moral 
purpose  a**"  —nut  for  a  good  deal  la  Ameri- 
•    •  •  «**M*~,»  ««*M»»«%i«r  the  ra- 


148 


Bosfwn  Joarn**!,  Sapi   /,  lt<\  i- 

The  Woll-known   Editor   of 
tj.-rpors  Weekly. 


Hte  Noted  Career  as  Author  nnd 
Journalist. 


Sketch  of    His  Travels  and    His 
Wsrfcs, 


Ceoive  William  Curtis,  the  well-known  au- 
thor ami  journalist,  died  at  2.S8  Wednesday 
•liori.uiz  at  his  residence  hi  Wt->t  Brighton.  S.  I. 
f*ist  July  Mr.  Curttic's iUnes«  assumed  a  serious 
form.  He  had  not  been  feelin.?  welt  since  th" 
middle  of  June,  but  ha  conti nueU  to  <:o  his  rwr 
alar  wotk  until  after  the  Fourth  of  July.  Just 
before  the  Fourth  a  chaos*  far  the  worse  took 
place,  and  soon  Dr.  Jaaeway  aud  Mr.  Curtis'* 

brother.  Dr.  Carta,  were  oaMed  in  to  aid  the 
local  physician.  The  trouble  was  in  the  lower 
part  of  the  stomach  and  consisted  of  a  swel  line, 
attended  bv  inflammation.  But  the  nature  of  his 
disease  has  never  been  determined.  It  was  an- 
nounced some  time  sgo  that  he  was  suffering 
from  cancer  in  the-  stomach,  but  tlie  physician 
who  attended  him  could  not  agree  that  his  dis- 
ease was  of  a  cancerous  nature,  and  it  was  the 
opinion  of  a  number  that  be  suffered  from  some 
abnormal  erowtb.<38h  the  abdomen,  which  be- 
came very  large,  it  is  understood  that  there 
will  be  an  autopsy. 

■SW  jfeejftr  Career. 
-  Starling  out  6b  hi*  youthful   career  as  the 
author  ot  several  ouabains  books  of  travel,  and 


GKORGF.    WILLIAM   CURTIS. 


afterward  dr  if  tins:  'into  literary  engage- 
ments with  the  New  York  Tribune.  Har- 
per's Weekly  and  other  journal*.  Mr.  Curtis 
was  at  an  early  aire  driven  by  conviction  to 
take  part  in  the  zreat  moral  revolution  which 
culminated  in  the  war  for  the  Union 
and  the  abolition  of  slavery  in  the  United 
Bta'.es.  and.  throwing  himself  with  fervor  into 
this  uew  field  of  activity,  he  abandoned  a  pro- 
fession in  which  ho  might  have  attained  high 
honors,  for  the  one-i'it  which  he  has  achieved 
Ms  great  reputation  as  a  leader 
of  men.  Born  •  tn  Pm%iilaBce.  Rhode 
Island.  Feb.  24. 1821.  he  was  partly '  ot  Massa- 
chusetts descent,  bi«  father  having  been  born 
In  Worcester,  of  which  an  ancestor  was  the 
first  settler.  His  mother  was  the  daughter  of 
■lames  Burrill.  Jr..  at  one  timo  Chief  Justice  of 
Jthode  Island,  and  afterward  United  States  Sen- 
ator. In  1830  he  went  to  boarding  school  at 
Jamaica  Plain,  where,  he  remained  for  four 
years.  Pleasant  reminiscences  of  his  school 
dart  there  are  found  is  the  early  chapters  of  his? 
siovel.  "Trumps."  narrated  with  a  fresh  no* 
and  enthusiasm  wbbeh  remind  the  reader  of 
"Tom  Brown  at  Kugbr-.".  Meanwhile  he  lost 
his  mother;  and  In  1839.  his  lather,  who  had 
married  again,  removed  with  his  family  to  New 
York,  and  desirous  that  his  son  should  pursue  a 
mercantile  career  placed  him,  after  a  ye-ir's 
study  with  a  private-tutor,  as  a  clerk  in  a  Gor- 
man importing  hous&in  Exchange  place. 

But  mercantile  lite  waa  not  agreeable  to  the 
youth.  His  tastes  were  decidedly  literary,  and 
tp  the  course  of  his  reading  he  became  doeply 
interested  in  the  transcendental  movement. 
Aecorumely  he  went  to  Brook  Farm  With  his 
brother  and  there  remained  until  1844. 
They  then  passed  -  two'  years  In  Concord, 
Massachn<etes£bidYlng  and  farming.  Here 
Mr.  Curtis  became  Terr  intimate  With 
Emerson,  Hawthorne  and  Henry  Tboreao, 
forming:  warm  friendship*  with  them. 
which  were  uroRsi*  only  by  death.  In  his 
"Hotnei  of  American  Authors  "  he  has  printed 
some  interesting  notes  of  his  intercourse  with 
the  philosopher,  the  romancer  and  the  hermit, 
'''.  Latter*  Bad  Tlngmilne  VTVrlu 

Beginning  with  M48,  Mr.  Curtis  traveled  ex-( 
tensfvetr  abroad,    A  iourney  across  Ute  deeart. 


tassiou  in  which  he  might  nave  attataeo  nwa 
honors,  for  the  one  in  which  he  has  achieved 
his  great  reputation  as  a  Isaisr 
of  men.  Born  .  In  EsaPSJtfaBjqp,  Rhode 
Island.  Feb  24.1824.  he  was  partly  of  Massa- 
chusetts descent,  hi*  father  having  been  born 
hi  Worcester,  ot  which  an  ancestor  was  the 
first  settler.  His  mother  waa  (he  deurhtsr  of 
J umes  Burrill.  Jr. ,  at  on*  tiroo  Chief  Justice  of 
Khode  Island,  and  afterward  United  States  Sen- 
ator. Iu  1830  he  went  to  lioairtliai  school  at 
Jamaica  Plain,  where  he  remained  for  four 
years.  Pleasant  reminiscences  ot  bis  school 
davs  there  are  found  In  the  early  chapters  of  hts 
novel.  "Trumps."  narrated  with  a  freshae* 
and  enthusiasm  which,  remind  the  reader  of 
"  Tom  Brown  at  Kugbr.".  Mean  while  be  lost 
his  mother:  and  In  1839.  his  father,  who  had 
married  again,  removed  with  hit  lamfly  to  New 
York,  and  desirous  that  bis  son  should  pursue  a 
mercantile  career  placed  him,  after  a  yeir's 
study  with  a  private  tutor,  os  a  clerk  In  a  Ger- 
man importing  house  in  Exchange  place. 

But  mercantile  life  was  not  agreeable  to  the 
youth.  His  tastes  were  decidedly  literary,  and 
in  the  course  of  his  reading  he  became  deeply 
Interested  in  the  transcendental  movement. 
Accor  Jinglyho  west  to  Brook  Farm  with  hia 
brother  and  there  remained  until  1844. 
They  then  passed  two'  yean  In  Concord, 
Massachusetts,  studying  and  farming  Here 
Mr.  Curtis  became,  very  intimate  with 
Emerson.  Hawthorne  and  Henrr  Thoreaa. 
forming  warm  friendships  with  them, 
which  were  broken  only  by  death.  In  bis 
"  Homes  of  American  Authors"  ha  has  printed 
some  interesting  notes  of  his  intercourse  with 
the  philosopher,  the  romancer  and  the  hermit. 

abetters  ansa!  fllswutae  Wwrlc. 
.  Beginning  with  1840,  Mr.  Uurti*  traveled  ex- 
tensively abroad.  A  lourney  across  the  desert. 
by  way  of  Gaza  to  Jerusalem,  of  which  he  wrote 
an  account  in  "  The  Howadji  fn,  Syria."  ended 
Mr.  Curtis's  Easteratravels.  He  spent  the  earl  v 
summer  of  1830  VB  England,  and  returned 
home  in  August.  His  pen  had  not  been 
idle  during  bis  wanderings.  Besides  his  jour- 
pals,  be  bad  written  letters  for  the  Courier  and 
Inquirer,  of  which  Mr.  Henry  J.  Raymond  was 
then  managing  editor,  and  for  the  New  York 
Tribune,  where  "his  friend.  Mr.  Charles  A. 
Daua.  held  the*  'same-  petition.  On  bis  re- 
turn he  entered  upon  an  active  literary 
[life.  He  became  musical  critic  and  editorial 
writer  on  the  Tribune,  and  wrote  out  his  "NUe 
Notes."  which  were  published  in  1851  by  the 
Harpers,  in  tliaautnmn  ot  that  year  he  wrote 
a  series  of  picturesque  traveling  letters  to  the 
Tribune,  from  the  CatskltN.  Saratoga.  Trenton. 
Niagara,  Newport  and  Nahaai.  which  were 
pa*jlished  in  1862  as  "Lotus-Eating."  beau'i- 
fsasy  illustrated  by  his  friend  Kwisett.  In  the 
ame  rear.  'The  Howadji  in  Syria"  was  poh- 
nsbed,  and  Mr.  Curtis  wrote  some  sketches  of 
social  life  for  Harper's  Monthly  -3 

Th«  establishment  of  Piu-iain's  Monthly,  ta 
18W,  opened  anew  field  to  Mr.  Curtis,  who,  hr 
feonjun cfion  with  Mr.  Parke  Godwin  and  Mrl 
BCharU  s  F.  rJriirgs.  assumed"  the  editorial  man? 
prem^nl  of  that  periodical,  which  was  destined 
Bo a  i  riiiiant  though  brief  carear.  Within  tha 
first  yea*  of  its  existence  he  wrote  the  paper 
on  Kincrson.  Hawthorne.  Longfellow  and 
,'«roft.  in  the> series  on  "The- Homes  of  Asaericai 
SAuthois."  To  this  magazine  Mr,  Curtis  cfl 
.tribute  1  "The  Pojfiphar  Papers."  a  brilliau 
lire  on  certain  phases  of  Now  York  societj 
'series    of    dettabt 


.ffhCT  the  „ 
;mto—We*  fcarrds  of  Messrs.  Dix  Jfc  Ldwtris.' 
Mr.  Curtis  snd  Mr. Frederick  Law  O^.mstod  ber 
cauir  conuectca  with  tire  lirm.  an  1  werein-j 
v,.  vc.l  in  its  failure.  Considering  himself  mor-' 
ally,  if  uoi  legally,  respons-ihle  for  a  portion  of{ 
Iho  indebtwrness.  Mr.  Corttt  'refused  io  avail 
hUlisell  ^i  the  lichiiicalllios  of  the  law.  and 
set  Iruusell  to  the  work  of  paying  the  creditors. 
PU  devoted  himself  diligently  to  literary  work. 


The  •mount  of  labor  he  performed  was  literally 
otiorinms.  Kesidcs  til  Hug  the  "Easy  Chair"  of 
Harper's  Magazine,  in  which  he  had  just  taken 
his  ^ ■■•>...  auit  writing  "  File  1-A.unger ''  in  Har- 
per's Weekly,  he  delivered  a  loners  tips  of  lec- 
tures, souictimes  speaking  a  hundred nights  in 
a  se.ison.  and  traveling,  almost  without  rest, 
from  olsoa  to  place,  at  the  Insatiable  call  of 
mniuccrs  and  committee'1.  Ko  man  trar.  over 
moro  popular  as  a  lecturer.'  The  ••harm  o!  hi* 
manner  was  irresistible;  he  had  no'  only  some- 
thins  to  say  which  the  people  wanted  to  li«ar, 
but  kucw  how  to  say  it  with  the  erne  ami  else 
which  belong  to  the  true  orator.  One  of  the 
most  popular  of  hi*  lectures  was  that  upon  the 
perfect  soldier  of  chivalry.  Sir  Philip  Sidney. 
I b  P*litir». 
Mr.  Curtis  was  a  delegate  to  the  secoud  Na- 
tional Con**ntJfiT'of  the  Republican  party. 
which  assembled  at  Chicago  on  the  ICth  of 
Al»y,  1860.  It  will  he  remembered  that  the 
construction  of  a  "platform"  was  a  labor  of 
considerable  difficulty,  liter*  were  still  many 
Republicans  who  wished  to  conciliate  the 
border  States,  and  when  Mr.  Josbua  R.  Gid- 
dintrs  moved  In  convention  to  add  to  the  first 
resolution  the  "life,  liberty  and  pursuit  of 
happiness "  clause,  from  the  Declaration  of 
Independence.  the  opposition  was  loud 
and  determined.  The  motion  waa  lost  by 
a  large  vote,  and  Mr.  (lidding*,  who  bad 
urged  its  adoption,  proposed  to  withdraw 
from  the  convention;  but  Mr.  Curtis  took  an 
■arly  opportunity  to  renew  the-  motion  in  a 
slightly  modified  form. »  There  were  again  loud 
<.rieu  of  opposition.  Mr.  Curtis  asked  whether 
the  party  was  prepared  at  it*  second 
National  Convention  to  vote  against  the  great 
charter  of  American  liberty,  and  cautioned  <h« 
ielegates  to  beware  how  they  receded  from  the 
p^ilion  which  the  party  had  occupied  at  Pitts- 
burg: His  eloquent  periods  acted  like  murie. 
|  11m  amendment  was  adopted  unanimously  amid 
wild  excitement,  the  great  multitude  rising  and 
giving  round  after  round  of  applansc 

It  was  a  noteworthy  event  in  the  history  or 
AmericAu  journalism  when,  in  December  of 
18«3,  Mr.  Curtis  became  the  political  editor  of 
harper's  Weekly.  Ha  had  been  conducting  a 
department called  The  Lounger."  begun  in  th* 
autumn  of  1857,  which  consisted  at  first  of 
essays  in  the  lhchter  vein  on  social  and  literary 
topics,  very  much  in  the  manner  of  the  "  Easy 
Chair/'  After  the  beginning  of  the  war  Mr. 
Curtis  frequently  introduced  subjects  of  a 
national  rod  political  character  ia  this  depart- 
ment; bnt  bis  field  was  comparatively  re- 
stricted. From  the  meanest,  however,  that 
he  look  his  seat  ra  the  editorial  chair,  his  dis- 
cussions aasamed  a  wider  scone,  embracing 
all  the  great  issue*  befure  the  country. 
His  interest  in  Civil  8*rvice  Reform  is  noted. 
Mid  at  one.  time  he  was  Chairman  of  the  Civil 
Service  Commissioe: 

H<MS*rs  Offered  Hr.  Curtis. 
Mr.  Curtis  served  as  a  Recent  of  the  Unlver- 
ottv  and  as  non-resident  Professor  at  Cornell 
TJoiverstty  for  four  years.  He  declined,  in  1869. 
upon  the  death  of  Me.  Henry  J.  Raymond,  who 
had  previously  asked  him  to  become  assistant  ed- 
itor, an  invitation  to  the  chief  editorship  of  the 
N*w  York  Times.  Mr.  Curtis  never  accept- 
ed a  political  office.  although  of  ten  pressed  to  do 
so.  By  Mr.  Sewari  he  was  offered  the  Consul- 
Generahhip  to  Egypt;  President  Haves  urged 
him  to  accept  the  port  of  Minister  to  England, 
and  afterward  that  of  Minister  to  Cermany.«but 
ho  could  not  be  teraroted  away  from  his  edito- 
rial position.  Once  he  accepted  the  nomina- 
tion for  Representative  to  Congress,  knowing 
that  his  district  was  boelesslv  Democratic 
and  that  there  was  no  prosnect  of  his  election. 
In  1867  he  served  in  the  State  Constitutional 
Convention.  In  which  lie  was  Chairman  of  the 
Committee  on  Education.  He  frequently  took 
part  in  the  debates,  and  made  an  elaborate 
%neech  in  favor   of  the   extension  of   the  fran- 


149 

chlso  to  women-*  measure  of  which  Mr.  Cur-  pu§hed  in  1873.    Portions  of  his  contributions 

th  has  been  for  years  a  consistent  advocate.  tothe  mmcarilw  were  8nb8equenty  published 

Mr.  Curtis  delivered  in  Boston   in  1884  the  pub-  under  the  titles  of  "Th«  Pntinh**PanM»ftej(tt 

lio  eulogy  on  Wendell  Phillips.'     He  refused  to  ?"?%>„* L"'^\«,,«J!      I      V      P^2™) 

accept  any    pecuniary   compensation,  but   the  *aa    ^™»«*ndl    (1856).    As  a  lyceum  lecturer. 

Citv  Govern  mint,  presented    him    with  a  gold  upon  which  field  of  labor  Mr.  Curtis  entered  in 


1863.  be  met  with  great 


He  has  de- 


medal. 

Mr.  Curtis  was  marriod  m  1857  to  a  daughter  iinMd  «,,vj>p»i  «« 

of  Mr.  Kooert  G. -  Shaw,   the  eminent  ptiilan-  "▼•«<»  several  °**uSy* '*»*  Pcems  before  liter- 

tbroplst,  recently  deces«ed.     For  mnn>  vears  ***  »ocieties.  and  held  a  high  rank  as  a  poem. 

he  resided  in     West    New  Brighton.   Staten  lar  orator.    In  the  presidential  canvas  '-of  1858 

Island,    excent   dttrina-   the  suhmier   months,  he  enlisted  with' great  zeal  as*  public  apeaker 


when  he  sought,  rest  and  relaxation  in  the  vil- 
lage of  Ashtieid. 


BesTrmTmnScrtpt-,   &frt.8,  Ifi^X. 


on  behalf  of  the' Republican  par  y.  In  the  win- 
ter of  1858  he  advocated  the  rights  of  woman  in 
a  lecture  entitled  "Fair  P  lay  for  WoHMn.,,  -  Te 
the  current  literature  of  the  day  be  baa  been  a 
constant  contributor  since  1853.  through 
Harper's  Monthly,  and  else*'  the  *»utnmn 
of  1857  through  Harper's  Weekly!  newr 
ef  which  journal  \  he  I  wee  I 
principal      ediwt       In      Xb58-M     be 


Mr.  Curtis  was  methodical  In  his  "work,  and 
while  at  Ashfleld  for  four  months  each  year, 
kept  up.  hi*  regular  work  just  the  same  aa 
when  at  hts  Staten  .Island  home,  or  in  New 
York.    The  morning  be  devoted   to  work,  and   tne 

had  his  regular  mail  day  for  sending  mann  wrote  for  this  paper  a  novel  entitled  ""Trump*,'' 
script  to-New  York,  In  the  afternoon  be  gen-  which  waa  published  in  a  volume  in  1883.  TJp- 
erally  took  a  drive  with  Mrs.  Curtis,  for  she  in-  on  the  establishment  of  Harper's  Bazaar  la 
variably  drove  the  pair  of  horses.'  which  the  1867,  he  began  a- series  of  papers  under  the 
family  bad  owned  for  years, or  took  a  walk  with  title  of  "Mannar*  upon  the  Road,"  which  waa 
Professor  Norton,  and  '.the  two  would  roam  continued  weekly  until  .the  spring  of  1878.  In 
around  the  country  llge  aj couple  of  boy*.  His  1671  President  Grant  appointed  him  one  of  a 
mall,  which  was  always  'large,  came  In  at  six  commission  to  draw  up  rules  for  the  regulation 
o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  and  he  generally  de-  <*  the  eivll  service;  and  he  was  elected  chair- 
voted  hts  evenings  to  looking  it  over  and  scan-  toan  of  th#  .^agfiiii  and  of  thTadvMMy 
ning  the  newspaper.  He-  had  neatly  ill  the  tmni  .„  — tu  ,,  _..  __v^J__»,  """wr 
local  papers  from  aU  over  New  York  State,  so  InlSren.  wSb.  reatrEa^L^T  2?Zt 
that  with  his  trained  eye  he  could  keep  in  touch  Jl.  JS--"!r. .  _.*MtfB»a  ""fy."  «  •*»•«»• 
with  the  people  on  the  political  atfd  social  'SJaWetTtareiSa^^ 
querrtfonsof  the  day.  Wbil*  at  Ashfleld.  he  ^to^ZZ^??3£ZZE£2? 
"-  it  a  point  to  take  a  vacation  front  politic*  l£~ ^J:^?^*?"1??!?*"  *?"*• 
.«,i»  t,i-H  ♦„  ,««„.„,..  »x*  »m.~..  „~,„  e*E  w*nonal  Convention*  of  I860  and  1884, 
*eI  apoa    which  nominated  Mr.  Lincoln:    and  In  the 

latter  year  he  was  the  Republican  candi- 
date for  Congress  In  the  First  District 
of  New  York,  but  was  defeated.  In  1863 
President  Lincoln  offered  him  the  post  of  con- 
sul general  in  Egypt,  which  he  declined.  In 
1867  he  waa  elected  one  of  the  delegates  at 


made 
and  rarely 
this  subject. 


HGN:  GBOBCOI  "W^raHXtt.CTJRTIS. 


Death  of  the  distinguished  Author,  Orator    ilarge  to  the  Constitutional  Convention  of  Hew 


and   Publicist.' 

Hon.  George  William  Curtis,  who  has  been  ill 
at  his  summer  residence,  Livingstone,-  S.  L, 
died  at  2.30  this  morning. 


York,  in  which  he  waa  chairman  of  the  com- 
mittee on  education.  In  1888  be  was  a  Repub- 
lican presidential  elector.  Siace  1864  he  ha* 
been  one  of  the  regent*  of  the  University  of  th* 


for  a  year  he  was  a  clerk  in  a  mercantile 
bouse.  In  1843  he  went  with  his  elder  brother 
to  reside  at  Brook  Farm,  in   West  Roxbury, 


_  Mr.  Curtis  was  born  at  Providence,  R.  L,  Feb-  Sut*  °J  New  *<»*• 
ruary  24.  1824.  He  received  his  early  edu-  U_L/Mt  w»*'-  Curtis's  illness  assumed  a seri- 
cation  in  a  private  school  at  Jamaica  Plain,  •■■form.  H*  had  not  been  feeling  well  since 
Mass.  At  the  age  of  fifteen  he  removed  with  *•  Middle  of  June,  bnt  he  continued  to  do  his 
bis  father  from  Providence  to  New  York,  where   w^l**  work  until  after  the  Fourth  of  July. 

J'«theforetbeFourth"a-ehange'forthe  wen* 
took*plac*,  and  scon  Dr.  f  aueirar  and  Mr.  Cur- 
tis's brother.  Dr.  Curtis,  were  called  in  to  aid 
Mass..  where  he  passed  a  year  and  a  half  in  *h«loc*l  physician.  The  trouble  was  in  the 
study  and  agricultural  labor ;  after  which  he  lower  pmrt  of  *•  «tomach  and  was  at  first 
went  to  Concord.  Mass.,  and  with  his  brother  thought  to  be  cancer  of  the  stomach,  bnt  this 
spent  eighteen  months  there,  living  with  a  w*f  *fte«w*rds  denied  by  his  physicians. 
farmer,  and  both  taking*  part  regularly  In  the  ™f- Curtis  was  married  In  185T  to  a  daughter 
ordinary  work  of  the  farm,  and  afterwards  for  *'  Mt  Bo08rt  G.  Shaw,  the  eminent  pbllan- 
six  months  tilling  a  small  piece  of  land  on  their  "''"P1^  recently  deceased  For  many  years 
own  account  In  1846  Mr.  Curtis  went  to  °*.  '•"'"d  In  West  New  Brighton,  Staten 
Europe,  and  after  a  prolonged  stay  in  Italy  and  "J*1"*'.  •""•*'  du*lwr  the  sammer  months. 
Berlin,  travelled  in  Egypt  and  Syria.  In  1850  'wnen  •w,»h*  *•"•  *»d  ralaxatlon  In  the 
be  returned  to  the  United  States,  and  published  Tll,w»of  Aahfleld.  Mass.  7 

bis  first  book.-"Nil*  Notes  of  a  HowadjL"  Although  nearly  all  his  life  a  resident  of  New 

He  soon  Joined  the  editorial  staff  of  the  New  ""*  he:  °7  lon*  "to«*tlon.  residence  and  In- 
York  Tribnne,  and  in  the  summer  of  1851  *•***•  ***  »  elo»«  '»l»t>onabl»  with  Maeaa 
wrote  a  series  of  letters  to  that  journal  from  va-  w08****  »*try  through  his  marriage  Into 
rious  watoring  places,  which  were  afterwards  a  MaasncbtMstti  family  of  note,  pertly 
collected  In  a  volume  under  the  title  eX  "Lotus  f*™***  through  the  ties  formedjn  those  idyl. 
Eating."  His  seeond  book,  however,  was  The  »o  days  at  Brook  farm  and  Concord  And  in 
Howadji  in  Syria,- published  .in  1853.  In  the  Massachusetts  he  had  another  home,  at  Ash- 
autumnbf  1852  Putnam's  Monthly  was  com-  Hei^.™  WB'°«  «•  »«^»^  every  sununer.  It  to 
meneed  In  New  York,  of  which  Mr.  Curtis  was  «  0,d.f^hoose  on  the  outskirts  of  the  vfl- 
one  of  the  original  editors,  and  with  which  he  '*!!?•  "*r!2_z!"  Em*?**  **"«f«l  maple^led 


continued  connected  till  the  magatlae  ceased 
to  exist.  Ia  the  meantime .  It  had  paased  into 
the  hands  of  the  firm  of  Dtx.  Edwards  A  Co..  In 


hills. 

and 

the 


between       the       Berkshire      valley 
the      picturesque      neighborhood      of 
Qeerflelds    and     Northampton. 


which  Mr.  Curtis  was  a  special  partner,  pecn-  *'»  hffD  „,y^M!»«0'  „w1l*hte  **»»«* 
nlarlly  responsible,  but  taking  no  part  In  its  cx>™"  *"«*  Norton.  Mr.  Ourtto  aided  In 
commercial  management — In  the  spring  of  founding  a  library  for  Ashfleld,  and  he  was 
1867  th*  house  was  found  to  be  Insolvent  for  a  so  mnch  of  a  favorite  with  his  neighbors  there 
large  amount,  and  Mr.  Curtis  sank  bis  pri-  that  they  were  anxious  to  make  him  their  rep- 
vate  fortune  In  the  endeavor  to  save  its  resentative  In  Congress.  He,  however,  seeitfl 
creditors   from  loss,  which  he  finally  acoom-  to  prefer  their  friendship  and  the  glorious  eel- 


on  ot  their  autumn  wood!  to  their  -rotes. 
,  la  1876  it  wu  to  him  that  Concord  turned 
when  seeking  an  orator  for  the  centenary  of 
her  famous  "fltrh  t :"  and  It  was  he  again  whom 
Boston,  In  the  spring  of  '84,  invited  to  pro- 
nounce the  eulogy  upon  Wendell  Phillip*. 

Mr.  Cortia  long  Tears  line*  gained  national 
reputation  ae  a  lecturer.  His  first  venture  in 
teat  line  wu  To* temporary  Art  in  Europe," 
in  1851 ;  then  he  fairly  got  under  way  with 
The  Age  of  Steam,"  and  soon  became  one  of 
that  remarkable  group,  including  Starr  King, 
Phillip*  and  Beecher,  who  built  up  the  lyceuui 
into  an  important  institution,  and  went  all 
over  (be  country  lecturing.  Mr.  Curtis  gave  lee 
tore*  every  wtnter  until  1872. 

He' ha'  always  manifested  a  deep  interest  in 
the  cause  of  higher  education,  and  lu  addition 
to  hU  efforts  in  behalf  of  political  reform  and 
hi*  literary  labors,  he  found  frequent  opportu- 
nity to  use  his  voice  and  pen  in  behalf  of  hu- 
mane enterpriser. 

H«  was  a  staunch  supporter  of  Henry  Berc  In 
hi*  defence  of  dn  nV>  animsls  from  cruelty,  and 
of  almost  every  other  wort  of  mercy  and  char- 
ity undertaken  In/New  York  and  neighboring 
commonwealths. 

Mr.  Curtis  was  not  an  unfrequeat  visitor  to 
Boston,  and  one  of  Ms  most  forcible  appeals  ill 
behalf  of  cirri  service  reform  was  made  at  the 
Tremonj  Teowle  la  October,  1880. 

Boston  Tro-nscr-ipT-,  Stpt.  i  /l^L. 

MX.  CURTIS  IK  THZ  FIFTIES. 

!■  the  minds  of  those  readers  whose  acquain- 
tance with  American  literature  covers  the  de- 
cade preceding  the  civil  war,  the  announce- 
ment of  the  death  of  George  William  Curtis  will 
awaken  memories  of  a  peculiarly  Interesting 
character.  The  present  generation  knows  Mr. 
Curtis  principally  as  a  political  reformer,  the  ed- 
itor of  a  great  weekly,  and.  In  a. literary  way,  as 
the  Eaxy  Chair  ef  Harper**  Magazine.  Bat,  to 
those  whose  memories  go  back  thirty-five  yean 
comes  tip  a  personality  so  different  and  so  dis- 
tinctive 1 »  character  from  that  which  marked 
his  later  public  life  ae  to  warrant  special  refer- 


160 

culture  and  hi*  eloquence  thai,  were  not  spent 
merely  on  self -display,  but  la  the  manifold 
cense  of  progress.  Oratory  wee  net  one  ot  the 
least  of  hi*  gifts,  end  that  undoubtedly  led  htm 
in  the  direction  of  political  Ufa.  It  was  at  thi* 
time  be  stood  at  the  parting  of  the  ways.  He  had 
achieved  a  reputation  such  ee  few  Amerioans 
enjoyed  In  literature,  and  his  admiren  saw  be- 
fore him  an  ever-broadening  and  ever-brighten- 
ing career.  Pate,  however,  decided  differently 
and  the  powers  which  otherwise  miarht  here 
been  devoted  to  the  enrichment  of  American 
letters  became  gradually  diverted  Into  mere 
practical  channels;  the  HtUratev*  grew  Into 
the  political  reformer,  end  it  is  comfort  to  know 
that  although  in  one  sense  literature  may  have 
lost  from  "his  seeming  defection,  society  has 
been  a  gainer.    His  constant  and  aggressive 

i'lfa  rltS 


Few  the  souls  that  answer  mine. 
And  no  voice  so  sweet  as  thine-    i 

Desert  wastes  of  care  remain  —    ' 
Yet  thy  lips  speak  not  agai  n  * 

Gray  eternities  ot  space- 
Yet  nowhore  thy  living  face! 

Only  now  the  lonesome  btitrht, 
Hea ry  day  and  haunted  night 

All  tb«  lisbt  an  J  music  reffr- 
Ou'.y  txoutrhtehd  memory  toll' 

leaee.  fond  mourner.   This  thy  boon. 
'llion  thyself  must  tollowf  ~ 


n 


Mr.  Curtis  was  born  with  tha-Utetary  Instinct, 
which  manifested  itself  in  hi*  boyhood's  days.. 
He  rebelled  agalnt  the  eommeretai  eareer  which 
had  been  marked  out  for  him,  and  at  the  age  ot 
eighteen  broke  away  from  it  anePJetned  the 
little  band  of  reformers  at  Brook  Perm,  where 
he  stayed  for  a  year,  end  a  half,  nndotgumg 
a  discipline  which  had  no  doubt  e  great  influ- 
ence upon  his  subsequent  career.  Then  the 
thirst  for  foreign  travel  came  gver  him,  end 
he  spent  four  yean  abroad  absorbing  material 
for  future  work.  At  twenty -six  he  we*  on  the 
editorial  staff  of  the  Tribune, ,  and  at  twenty. 
eight  became  the  editor  of  the'  beet  literary 
magazine  this  country  has  eve?  known— the  old 
••Putnam's."  It  was  in  thi*  that  ThePotlphar 
Papen"  wen  originally  pebllabei  a  series  of 
satirical  papers  whlcb,nieei*a1  a  decided  sensa- 
tion In  New  York  society  circles.  "Prae  and 
I,"  a  charming  novel  of  American  life, 
also  first  saw  the  light  there  aa 
a  serial.  "Trumps."  Mr.  Curtis'*  latest  novel, 
appeared  In  1860.  More  successful  than  either 
ot  these  novels,  perhaps,  wee  "The  Kile  Note* 
of  a  HowadJL"  which  came,  ont  toon  after  the 
author's  return  from  abroad,'  a  book  which  an 
English  imttmm  described  as  "an  onrhymed 
poem;  wild,  wilful,  fantastic,  bet  very  beauti- 
ful." 

A  little  later  Mr.  Curtis  became  a  prominent 
figure  on  toe  lecture  platform,  and  happy  in- 
deed in  those  palmy  days  of  the  ly  cram  wee 
the  agent  or  audience  that  could  secure  his 
presence  with  his  elegant  personality  and  his 


GEORQI  WILLIAM  CURTIS. 

[From  the  S»w  Tork  Tribune.! 

OBTTT  ACC'31.  1802. 

L 

All  the  flowers  were  in  their  pride 
On  the  day  when  Rupert  died. 

Dreamily,  through  dozing  trees. 
Siclio-l  ton  idle  summer  breeze. 

Wild  hirus,  glancing  through  the  air. 
Spilled  their  music  everywhere. 

Not  one  sign  of  mortal  ill 

Told  that  his  great  heart  was  still. 

Now  the  grass  he  loved  to  tmad 
Murmurs  softly  o'er  bis  head : 

Now  the  great  green  branches  *rare 
High  above  bis  lonely  grave: 

While  in  prief's  perpetual  speech 
Roll  the  breakers  on  the  beach. 

Oh.  mT  comrade,  oh,  my  friend. 
Must  this  pasting  be  the  end? 


.    1L 
Weave  the  shroud  and  spread  tte  p»P  1 
Night  and  silence  cover  nil. 

Howsoever  we  deplore. 
Ttiey  who  go  return  no  more. 

Never  from  that  unknown  track 
Floats  one  answering  whisper  bees.. 

Nature,  vacant,  will  not.  heed 

Lips  that  grieve  or  hearts  tnat  bleed. 

Wherefore  now  should  mcurniog  word 
Or  the  tearrul  dirge  be  heard.' 

now  shall  words  out  grief  abate? 
Call  Itim  noble  ,  call  him  great. 

Say  that  Faith,  now'gaont  andkrrfm 
Once  was  fair,  because  ot  him : 

Say  that  Goodness,  round  his  way. 
Made  one  everlasting  day ; 

Say  that  Beauty's  heavenly  flame 
Bourgeoned  wbereso'er  he  came : 

Say  that  all  life's  common  ways 
Were  made  glorious  in  his  gaze; 

Say  be  gave  us,  hoar  by  hour. 

Hope  and  patience,  grace  and  power ; 

Say  his  spirit  wee  so  true 
■J  hat  it  made  us  noble  too ;-  - 

What  is  this,  but  to  declare 

Life's  bereavement.  Love's  'lesps'r0 

What  is  this,  but  just  to  sav 
All  we  loved  is  torn  away? 

Weave  the  shroud  and  spread  the  pall! 
Night  and  silence  cover  all 

HI. 

Oh !  my  comrade,  oh '.  my  friend. 
Must  this  parting  be  the  end  ? 

Heart  and  hope  are  crowing  ol ' 
Dark  the  night  coiur s  down,  a-id  ■  .».  ! 


Pence   akd  let  repining  go! 
Peace— tor  Pate  witl  have  it  so. 

Vi>  i  1 1 .  v  now  h  U  paisr-  is  said ; 
Vain  thec*riand    or  hi*  bead; 

Vi  t  fa    ••'i  fort's  shadow  cast 
From  thu  kindness  of  the  past. 

All  i^y  lov*  could  do  to  cheer 

V       i.i-ii  f.ls  heart  when  he  was  here. 

i  i  .  to.  s  piandit.  Friendship's  vow 
i  »id  not  coUiiy  wait  till  now. 

Oh,  my  comrade;  oh.  my  friend. 

If  tins  parting  be  the  end, 

\er  1  hoii!  my  life  divine, 

jo  i  ivc  known  n,sofl  like  thine?    | 

And  I  husb  the  low  lament 
In  submission,  penitent. 


ROSE  THORPE'S  OIE  POEM. 


[Prom  IKe  Kuffalo  Oouritr.} 
Rose   Hartwtck    Thorpe,    tho   author  of 
<  Curfew  Must  rot  King  To-night, "  1*  now 
ring  In  tbo  fctouth  (or  the  benefit  of  her 
aebacl'ts  healthy  but,  as  her  own  health 
ifl'erH  then,  the;  think  ef  making  Booth- 
's < "  •. hicrrilu  their  future  home.     She  i« 
jw  iv  women  or  SV,  and  she  wrote  the  well-  | 
riown  verses  wheu  she  was  under  17.    All  i 
tc  get  lor  them  was  a  letter  of  thanks  from 
Ve editor  ot  a  Detroit  newspaper  to  whom,, 
le  sent  the  lines,     fine  1b  a  native  of  In> 
'xaa  and  passed  her  childhood  In  greet 
(erty.    Mho  toys:    "Of  all  dull,  proaalo 
-t  mine  was  the  dullest  and  moat  pzoo- 
_•'    When  she  wrote   <•  Curfew"  she  bad 
-education  and  no  knowledge  of  books, 
kv-k'     iha  afterwards  applied   herself  to. 
Jem,   M»d   t)ccivrc«  a  school  teacher.    Bat 
»n  dnrin;  her  ?ariy .  married  life  It  was) 
ere  ImpSTtant   to  hsr  reputation  among 
rncb:    i  -g'hatahe  should  "aeon  house"  : 
^approved  fashion  thnn  that  she  should; 
frlte  well,   and  she  remark* t    ''Until  the 
|  we:    >-•"■   I  whs  laundryinaid,  cook,  senm- 
Aress  am"  ..r.rse  for  my  ahlldron."    Thla 
latpeHcni-';   'oculls  the  story  of  Mrt.  George^ 
pttplcy,  a>  wbc:n  s'js,->o:ifte4  Harvard  *ta-j 
'dent*    iV.d  tc  so  '.<>  !>■■>  "-".uoried;  ,8kmjoon*i 
'le<Kttd  t">hnveor.ou  ;o'itul  )»<*Bitantn«  at; 
the  seine  Mme-to  one  boy  whowaa  wtttasv 
1  Orei :;  w.d  naoUtor  who  wu*  demnnatruUntf ; 
ap:<i>o,uir.t  tn  nj  atytlee,  whlleeiieeheiiea 
p*.i*  and  :  •: .. :  d  •&«  baby's  orudid  with  hop  | 

|  toot.     ,  )._  :^\:  _  : 

All  H.vpt»kxtd  m  FinrMV.^Batgiii Mum 
of  Independence  wns  mgoed  on  Friday.    -.. 

Waehintrtoa  was  born  on  Fridnp, ..  • 

Qneen  Victoria  was  married  on  Friday. 

America  wan  discovered  on  Friday. 

Mayflower  landed  on  Friday. 
-Joan  of  Arc  was  burned  at  the  stake  on 
Friday. 

Battle  of  Waterloo  was  fongbt  on  Fri- 
day. 

Baetile  was  burned  on  Friday. 

Battle  of  Marengo  wan  fought  on  Friday. 

Julius  Oesar  wae  aseaaeinated  on  Friday 

Moscow  was  burned  on  Friday. 

Shakespeare  was  born  on  Friday^. 

King  Charles  I  was  beheaded  on  Friday. 

Battle  of  New  Orleans  was  foogbt  on 
Friday.        -  „ 

Lincoln  was  assassinated  on  Friday. 


I  co<>    c« 


IjOHiirtX.  >?o\.  2S.—  Thece. ooi'iiiu'v  att«nd*>| 
.;>    i  "it-    inwillngof   tho   melooiial    '.i 
awm**  I.--,. il  i.o.iclt.  In  tho  •*"'. .    tor  r        • 
.     '.V     ti  itqYier  Abbey,  began  ■•■'    •■    n  to-  • 
r.>«      ■•   cror;..:    consists  uf    wo    Wfta  d  $    >■« 
ntted     ■        Owe   of  them   U  divided   It 
juuli..         n*.     three   parts,  wUitii  fttttebot*! 
torn  o!  [V  other  two  ii   a   medalllou  portion 
of  the  minister,  author-end    poet.    On   tho 
tfv-.    <     'ionsot    the  mnMoricd  window 

,>■■  :-it ions  of  an  av  .ret  nrferrntc  ,a  jb'  •!  1 
'he  :.-•»■>  :i  ic  -irmsoftbe  V-  itc-.i  F!:<">, :  he  !nn.-*« 
in^>.:  ''ip  Pilgrim  Shiners  dor-  U) )  ",";.>•- 
V.  mm  i  r,  .  'iis  the  fgore  of  St,  jJWorpb.  Or.  the 
otiicr  ■ ■  .r.doir  «tc  the  figures  of  **tr  Launfal, 
an  ansc.  bearing  a  shield  t>elow  :i>e  nrir.s  oi 
*he  United  K'i npdom,  and  a  flgnre  of  Pt.  An> 
t>ro.-\  ns  well  as  a  symtiollic  representation 
-cf  the  emancipation  of  the  -'.'  tea. 

Subscriber*  to  the  Me-norial  J?nnrl. 
1  While  Mr.  Lowell  Was  lAnMrtertn  fltinisteT 
to  <-'reat  Britain  b«  greatly  endeared  himself! 
•o  t*i- best  classes  of  the  English,  people,  ;:  id1 
sbo'lly  after  hi*  death  the  project  eTsia  started 
of  <-;t~  'isg  a  memorial  to  him.  T^c  funds 
•wet.*  quickly  raised '  among  his  English, 
friends,  and  lo-day**  cerem<i  :i  -•  m-rkedthe 
fiu.il  eemptttton  of  the  work  of  lore.  Among 
those  vlio  subscribed  to  the  fuud  trere  tbe 
*>cki  r.f  Wcstml lister,  the  Dnkn  of  Argyll, 
Kt'l  ilrsi  bf-ry.  Lord  0bler1d?e,  Lord  Bras- 
•  v  1  .-.  1  TVayfalr,  Sir  John  f  abboek.  Pre- 
res*  >,-  Bryce,  Professor  Tyndoll.  t,eorge  Mem- 
niith,  Dr.  Conan  Doyle,  Canon  Farrar  and 
Aliua-Tadema. 

Among  Those  Present 

Arionar  those  present  to-day  were  the  Hon. 
Thomas  r.  Bayard,   American  Ambassador; 
Mis*  Balfour,   sister  of  tb«  Bt,    Hon.   A.  J.  I 
II  .'•    ■'■■t;  the  ArchWshop  of  Carjterbrrry,r**an| 
Bradley  and   Miss  Bradley ,_Lord  Coleridge, ' 
Lord  Chief  JnsMoe;   the  Klght  Hon.    Arthur 
Wellesley  Pool,  Speaker  of  tbe  Houso  of  Com-, 
jmnns;    Lord     lloscbary,     Foreign    Minister;', 
ICnnon  Kurrar,    Lord   Hersehell,    Lord  High. 
ICbanoollor;  Mr.   Welter  liesant,   tho  Right, 
lion.  Joseph  Chamberlain  and  Mrs.   Cham- 
berlain,  the  Ui<ht  lion.   Sir  Henry  James, 
Lord  and  Lady  Reay,   Lord  Aberdare,    Mr. 
Wii; urn  Leaky,  tire  historian,  and  Lord  and? 
La>o  Pembroke.  I 

l>»an  Bradley**  gpeeek. 
i    Pun  Bradley  presided. 

In  his  opening  speeoh  ha  said:     "Wo  have 
met  la  this  venerable  building  to  pay  a, 
tribute  to  the)   merooiy   ol   ono  whose  high- 1 
character  and  great  gift*   ondea  rod  blm  loan 
lever  widening  circle  till  the  day  or  Me  death, ; 
ii  will  leave  others  to  speak  of  Mr.  Lowell  as  a    "  ' 
writer  who  helped  others  to  appreciate  treat    '" 
writers  of  the  same  race. "  A  ,  *" 

Leslie  Stephen**  Addreas.     ,  f    v 

!    Mr.    Leslie  Stephen,  a«   Chairman   of  tbej    '"' 
•Memorial  Committee,    beggea    Ambaeaadoi. 
,Bay»rd'»acoeptnnoe  of  tbe  memorial  on  be-' 
half  ot  the  United  States.    He  said,  among 
oil"  r  things:  "I  had  the  honor  of  Mr.  Lowell's 
fr'i  ldship  for  many  years,    lite  reason  we 
V  »semel  here  to  honor  Lowell  is  suggested  to 
any  one  visiting  the  Poets'  Corucr.    The  long, 
line  cf  lllnstrloos  men  whose  monuments  an 
Mi  re,  and  who  passed  tho  torch  or  Uteratnn 
frnm  Cnauoer  to  Tennyson,  would   doubtless 
m-onilKc  Lowell   as    a   oongonlal   dlaolple. 
Sea  rooty  ono  of  theso  tollowed  letters  with; 
more  unflagging  real.     On  blin  tell  the  spirit-' 
Of  thr  great  masters.     He  always  spoko  from 
'bis  heurl,  and  heneo  nobly.     He  would  not: 
take  »  '.of  rank  among  the  masters." 

Mr.  stnpnen  li!n;thlly  eulogiaed  Mr.  Lowv^ 
ell's  wovUs.  an  I  roferre.d  lo  tho  influence  exM 


151 

Will  be  nceeplod  as  It  Is  Intended,  so  thaf 
Americans  can  see  that  Englishmen  arc  en  pa. 

fblc  of  respecting  and  admiring  one  of  them  at 

Taeartlly  as  if  ho  was  one  of  oar  own  couutry- 

imeo." 

Ambassador  Bayard's  Response). 

Id  Ambassador  Bayard  then  .arose  and  said: 

'"I  hold  myself  happy  In  tbat  I  have  been* 
permitted  to  bo  in  the  Chapter  Houso  of  West-, 

minster  Abbey  when,  for  the  second  time,  the 
name  of  an  American   Is  Inscribed    In    this 

'double  sanctuary  of  religion  and  renown— the  ! 
bust  of  Longfellow,  and  now  tbe  memorial  ot ' 

Sits  bro,ui'r  poel,  both  from  otir  kindred  be- 
yond (lie  sen.  The  forms  of  these  two  glftod 
'sons   of     vmcliM  ore  olcsped  In  tho  bosom  of 

Itho  lai;d  oi  their  birth;  tholr  ashes  rest  In 
pence   nt    homo,    but  the  echoea  of  their  tame 

I  have  been   wafted   across   the   Atlantic,  and 

I they  full  In  clear  and  musical  notes  upon  tho 
loving  ears  of  the  two  countries  whoso  peoplo 
speak    the   same    tongue.        Longfellow   and 

i  Lowell,  here  In  Wegtmlnstor  Abbey,  In  blooded 

:  fellowship,  are  worthy  companions  of  that 
band  who  snog  with  Wordsworth  and  wio 

ig.iv"  n<i  nobler  love  and  nobler  cares. 

• -I  am  unablo  In  the  few   word*  permitted 

[We  to  :>ttempt  a  portmltnre  of  Ix>well.  llap- 
plly  'tils  i"  needless,  owing  "to  tbe  eloquent 
a.;.'.r-^s  of  Mr.  Stephen,  which  Is  especially 
grn'  ::•.>!  to  myself  and  my  compatriots  and 
which    will    be   received  thus  by  the  country 

■  wlic  -i  «-on  Is  Its  subject.  It  Is  a  strong  saying, 

I  'B><-o*  is  thicker  than  water. ' 

.    '  *rJve-T  day  proves  bow  the  ties  of  common 

or^In  -'.-id  anccKlry  are  stronger  than  written 

ilreatl<"5.  The  Inborn  «>•  mpi  thie*  of  race  finally 
Mlenoc  tnternatlonol  discord  ana  Jeoloasy.  It 
is  p  eaaant  to  recall  In  this  chamber  that  the 
man    In    •■•hose  honor   this   unveiling  takes 
place   'o-dny    s'ood    12  years   a-ro  speaking 
words  :n  hono-  and  nffeeUon   of  Dean  Stan- 
ley, that  pure,  ioMe  being,  whose   memorial 
Is  before  us,  seemingly  tbe  guardian  spirit  of' 
Ihls  venerable  place.      But  eight  years  slnco 
lc  ■  of  Lo'.Tell  was  again  heard  In  these 
i>.  -.Then  '.he  b«r*t  of  Coleridge,  tho  gift 
-.-•rlcan*,  was  u-ivcllc".     I  am  glad  ln- 
!:.<»    this   riarlc   of  honor   to   ray    dear 
ryman   was  ereoled  so  soon  afl-r  his 
Tbe   reprosnh   of  long  (May,    often 
Just,  cannot  be  made  hero,  nor  can  bo  applied  i 
tb'.  words  of  Johnson, 
"*See:he  uations,  Mlowly,  wise  and  meanly' 


Ibe  t: 

bi  eh 

|dc  sa  i 
ieoun; 
deal  1 1 


I  ■  ;t, 


Ho  also  i 


ertedfey  "The  Bl»«iow  Pitpers, 
ferred  to  Mr.  LoweU's  love  for   '  ,:iglish  liters-; 
tare   and    55ngfc'-»»    ■-'•ueraily,  even    English' 
ithcr.     Ha    ex'  filed     Lowell's    power  ot 


c\  merit  raise  the  tardy  bust.' 
u-^re  brotherliood  In  letter?  .and  kin-  i 
;i'r:ts    hapten    to    give    buried   merit | 
uL-aioriaU      1  cannot  forbear  to  wish,  I 
futile  it   may  be,    that  he  should  , 
vn  T>or:nl"ed  to  foreseo  this  lionor.    It  I 
purpose     to  bring     the    people   ol  i 
Britain      an  1     the      United      States  i 
Her  knov'  ledgoof  each  other,  to  replace  ' 
ii   by  conflttenco  met  Ignonmt  anlmos-  ! 
.     -idly  n;  :  *"'  'iailxn.     lie  liked  to  call' 
tniiri  of  Idler*.     Truly,  ho  was   a 
he  Ivi  rllsh  language,  and  ho  made 
d  <<r,<  ■  ledgo   the   iiguncv  *o  Inter- 
tte:  ."••.  nig  of  both  branehoa  of  the' 
5  eiiii;.  on  glories.  Jn  a  l  American 
n*'    !■'      ratoftil   pridowtll  ho  felt 
|eftf"n    '        itie  •  or  fame  'iv  '.;■  cono- 
iho  :,>>;ar,  »tate*mnn   and 

has  r--.>  >'-U  a  tlie  in nui- <if  LrLcus 
%c:iicrat»l»;  tciniilo 'if  natloi  ot  religion, 
thonor  and  renovra,  ISHm  my  love  to  Eng- 
land  In  geinaral'  >rns  the  laat  message  ol 
f,  n-'.;'  (J  Thomas  Hugh<>.  In  ihtso  memo*. 
|rla!i  i  ,ywo  not  rend  England'^  reply  to 
i  I  and  the  nation  lut  Saiihtully  repre- 

u   :■••  d?" 

A  Iter  the  eeremt.nie"  many  per  sous  lingered, 
,.!•»:•  (.ntvptor    lijtise  toaCmin    the   laeino- 


T-  .-..-■ 


113  i 


1.- 


Wi.i  ii 

tryi> 


Bb*i 


rial-  '  " 

speech,  ids  synipui.iy  aid  kindness/and  said    MBASaiBOs'.     BaTlBB-S     TltlBOft     TO 
be  was  proud  to  e'li   him   bis  friend' all  his. 


life.  Tlio  enuunlitet)  had  received  many 
Oilers  from  tho  Cislted  ^tctes  regarding  tho 
memorial,  bnt  it  Iiad  been  tliouc;bt  lit  tode- 
«rrno  m«hl  UWHllyA  TEey  wished  to  show  that 
Englishmen  themselves  knew  how  to  honor  a 
great  American  In  the  spirit,  In  which  Lowell 
•poke  and  wrote.  "We  bnvo  crested  thl* 
tee — 


BAT  AM* 

I.OWIXI*  THE  POET, 


Following  w if!  L >  found  the  i'a  ,  >ci-  of  Am- 
Dsssddor  P:>V.ird'  *  rto^oeift:  't'.'jm 
V.  ■•     ;:    ;    well,    delivered   KovesriUcj^  "a 

i         i lie  i>-cas1on  ttt  xne  Brrvetliri-fffel   Ui 

memorial   "f    the    dtstiagilsfae  I     Aniteilcsn 

port.  Kcholar  and  diplomat  at  the  entrance  to 


'i  he  'd  rayselfhaopy  indeed   that  I  have| 
beea  permitted  to  be  in  the  Chapter  Hoose   of 
Westminster,  ,»ud  in  on  aseeraMy  so  dlsiUr- 
iivshed  aad  t.uprefSlve,  when,  for  the  second 
tuee,  the  name  of  an  Ararrioan  la  laserlbed 
in  this  "double  sanctuary  of  rellgton  and  re- 
uown  '  -Ibe  bust  of  Longfellow,  and  now  the 
n-lndowsand  tablet  to  his  brother  poet,  both; 
from  'kindred  beyond  l  he  sea.'    Thelbrmaofj 
these  two  gifted  sons  of  America  have  been! 
clasped  to  the  bosom  of  tho   land  that  gave: 
them  birth,  and  their  ashes  rest  in-  paste  at, 
home;  but  the  echoes  of  their  Joat   ant  are 
wafted  to  and  fro  across  tba  Atlantic  fsdlhsg 
in  clear  and  mnsleal  notes  upon  loving  ears 
in  tbe  two  countries  whose  people  apeak  tho. 
same    mother    tongue.       '  Longfellow     and 
Lowell.' here  in    Westminster   Abbey,    their 
names   are    blended   In   goodly   ssHowshlp— 
worthy  companions  of  that  hand,  song  by 
Wordsworth— 
'•  'Who gave   us   nobler  tovea  and  nobler 
cares.' 
In  the  few   words   permissible  to  noon  this 
occasion.    I  may   not  attempt  nrotrsltnreof 
James  P.osseil   Lowell,  for  tbat  has  happily 
been  rendered  superfluous  by  the  s*usj  jssst  aod 
inter- -sting  address  of  the  eminent  eaholor. 
Mr.  Leslie  Stephen,    to   wbleh   we  hava  Jos* 
listened— which  was  so   especially  grateful  tej 
I  me  and  my  compatriots  here  gathered— and.  I 
I  will  be  received  with  moh  aontasnatlon  by 
I  the  entire  country  whose  gifted  sad  betoved 
son  was  Its  subjeot     It  Is  a  flne,    Slsang    say- 
ing that  'blood  Is  thicker  than  water*— and 
i  every  day  proves  how  the  ties  of  a  eora  man 
orlsln  and  ancestry  are  stroma*  than  written 
treaties— and   Inborn  sympathies   of  race,  la 
the  end,    can    silence    International   discords 
and  Jealousies  It  is  pleasant  to  recall  that,  I* 
this  very  chamber,  the  man  In  whose  honor 
these  memorials  are  nn veiled   to-day  stood 
!  IS  years  ago  speaking  warm  words  of  honor 
I  and  affection  of  Dean  Stanley— that  pan  and 
noble  being  wbose  memorials  are  before  us— 
I  seeming  tho  gnardlan  spirit  of  this  venerable 
place.    And  It  Is  bnt  eight  years  since  tba 
i  voice  of  Lowell  was  again  beard  In  tbesa  pre- 
cincts, when  tbe  bast  of  Coleridge— the  gift  of 
on  American— was  unveiled.      I  am  glad.  In- 
deed, that  this  mark  of  honor  to   myrjear 
countryman  baa  bcetT creeled  so  anon  after  hat 
death.    Tbe  reproaeb.  an  often  Jaat,  of  long 
demy  cannot  here  be  mads,  nor  tba  wards  of 
:  tbe  great  Johnson  bo  uttered— 
j "  'See*  nations,    slowly   aim   and    meanly 

Jnst. 
To  barled  merit  raise  the  tardy  bast. ' 

For  barn  a  brotherhood  of  letters— kind  rot  I 
spirits— have  hastened  with  jiaosfnl  aad  lov- 
ing appreciation  to  give  to  "bnrted  merit'  Its 
Just  memorial.  Z  cannot  Harass r  tho  wish, 
however  (utile,  tbat  he  could  have  been  per- 
mitted to  foresee  tbe  erection  of  th  mi -marks 
of  honor  to  his  name.  For  I  can  wall  Imag- 
ine the  bonest  and  exquisite  pleasure  It  would, 
have  caused  him,  for  who  could— who  so  wsll 
as  he  did  j  tut  ice  by  pen  and  speech  to  an  eh 
nets  of  sympalhy  and  praise  to  buried  merit  f* 
It  was  his  great  aad  honoraMs  pnrpooe  to 
bring  tho  peoples  of  Great  Britain  and 
of  the  Untied  States  Into  a  batier  aoitt> 
prehension'  of  each  other,  to  rapines  sus- 
picions by  confidence  and  Ignorant  animos- 
ity by  friendly  appreciation.  He  liked 
to  call  himself  <a  man  of  lettovs.' 
and  truly  be  was  a  master  of  tba  English 
tongue,  and  made  bis  skill  and  knowledge  an 

agency  to  interpret  the  bettor  feelings  of 
both  branches  of  tbe  race  who  sham  Its  glories 
In  common.    la  American  homes,  tbmogb- 

tout  tbe  broad  land  over  which  tba  ensign  of ! 
their  country  floats,  a  seam  of  grateful  pride  I 
will  be  felt  when  they  learn  that  tho  asms 
and    fams  of   their    fellow.countryman.  the 

l-poat,  scholar,  statesman  and  patriot  have  re- 
ceived at  the  hands  of  Britons  Ibis  blah  trib- 

i  nte  of  respeot  In  their  most  venerable  tempt* 

!  of  aational  religion,  boner  and  eauoans. 
•Give  my  love  to  England  In  gsnaaat*  was  a 
late  message  of  Mr.  Lowell  In  a  letter  to*  his 
friend,  Judge  Thomas  Hnghes,  and  In 


morial."    he  added,  "in  the  hops  OuR  ig|  |,h^  f-har-ter  House.  Westsslnrter  Abbsty. 


read    the  reply   of    'England   to  geaaisl'toi 


James  Russell  Lowell  and  tbe  nation  ho  fall  h- 
futiy  represented  at  the  Court  of  St.  James?" 
•  Mr.  Chamberlain  responded  to  Mr.  Bayard 
as  follow*: 

"The  very  acceptable  and  honor*  b'e  duty 
hfli  been  cast  upon  me  of  returning  thanks  io 
the  American  Ambassador  for  his  presence 
here  to-day.  I  am  rery  glad  that  It  hns  fallen 
to  his  Excellency,  so  early  In  the  history  of 
the  distinguished  appointment  which  be  Alls, 
to  take  a  part  In  a  ceremony  whloh  indicates 
the  olose  community  between  his  countrymen 
and  ours.  It  has  been  sometimes  said  that 
sueh  meetings  tend  to  the  closer  union  of  the 
American  with  tbe  British  people.  I  will  not 
say  that  this  is  perhaps  an  exaggeration, 
bat  at  least  It  Indicates  a  union  which 
Is  already  accomplished.  I  think  that 
the  Americana  have  always  rightly 
olalmed  the  possession  and  Inheritance  In  nil 
our  Illustrious  and  distinguished  dead.  Now, 
on  our  part,  we  too  claim  a  common  Interest 
and  a  common  pride,  and  almost  a  common 
ownership.  In  Illustrious  American*.  I  have 
said  T  nm  very  glad  that  Mr.  Bayard  has  been 
called  upon  to  aeknowledgo  this  memorial, 
because  I  do  not  think  that  even  among  his 
countrymen  will  be  found  any  one  who  la 
more  deeply  permeated  with  that  living  In- 
terest in  our  English  history  and  our  Illustri- 
ous dead  than  Mr.  Bayard  himself,  nnd  who 
Is  so  well  qualified  to  sympathize  with  his 
Illustrious  fellow  countryman.  I  am  sure  you 
will  readllv  Join  me  In  the  expression  of  our 
thanks  to  Iho  Ambassador  for  his  presence 
hero  to-ilnr. " 

Mr.  Chamberlain's  happy  reply  elicited  the 
subjoined  response  of  the  American  Ambas- 
sador • 

"'.'is  perfectly  plain  that  our  feellnrs  to- 
day am  atone,  and  that  wo  echo  Mr.  Chnm- 
berlai >:' a  speech,  that  whatever  Is  noble  and 
lllus'rloi";.  whatever  chal!  dignify  humanity 
*r"t  propiclo  tbe  welfare  o"  the  world,  will  he 
we'eo:oe<1  h- ,  very  v;*n  and  woman  who 
»p- lit*  t'ie  P  iiT'ishtouguoon  both  sides  of  tbe 
■•:..nt<'    " 

-         'i    imi  '  — 

!AMf.S     RUSSELL    10WELU 


&-.   KcW'iU?   'Jives  an  Account  Of  His 
.         ttlng  With  Him  in  I860, 


152 

Mr.  Howells's  description  of  a  journey  to 
New  England  undertaken  thirty  years  ago 
and  ^ontribut-ed  to  Harper's  Magazine,  is  one 
of  the  roost  delightful  bits  of  autobiography 
printed  for  mmiy  a  day.  In  the:  second  in- 
stall ient,  issued  with  the  May  number,  ha 
give*  an  account  of  his  first  meeting  with 
Lowell: 

Lowell  was  not  then  at  the  height  of  his 
fame;  he  had  jtist  reached  this  thirty  years 
after,  when  be  died ;  but  I  doubt  if  bs  was 
ever  after  a  greater  power  in  his  own 
country,  or  more  completely  embodied 
the  literary  aspiration  which  would 
not  and  ctmld  not  part  itself  from 
the  love  of  freedom  and  the  nope  of  jus- 
tice. For  the  sake  of  these  ha  had  been 
willing  to  snffer  the  reproach  which  followed 
their  friends  in  the  earlier  days  of  the  anti- 
slavery  struggle.  vHe  had  outlived  the  re-' 
pronch  longDefore;  -but  tbe  fear  of  bis 
strength  remained  with  those  who  had-faH 
it,  and  he  had  not  made  himself  mora  gener- 
ally loved  by  the  "Fable  for  Critics"  than  by 
the  "Biglow  Papers,"  pTobaMy.  But  in  tba 
"Vision  of  Sir  LaunfaV'  and  «ie  "Legend  of 
Brittany"  he  had  won  a  liking  If  not  a  lie- 
teniae  far  wider  than  his  humor  and  hhi  wis 
had  got  him  ;  and  in  bis  lectures  on  the  Ecg- 
lish  poets,  given  not  many  years  before  he 
came  to  the  charge  of  the  Atlantic  be  bad 
proved  himself  easily  the  wisest  and  finest 
critic  in  our  language.  He  was  already, 
more  thau  any  American  poet, 
'Dowered  with  tba  hate  of  hate,  the  acorn  of 
scorn, 

Tbe  1st*  of  leva," 

and  he  held  a  place  ta  the  pnbllo  sense 
which  no  other  author  among  us  baa  held. 
I  had  myself  nerer  been  a  great  reader  of  bis 
poetry,  when  I  met  Mm.  though  when  I  was 
a  boy  of  ten  years  I  had  heard  my  father  re- 
peat passages  from  the  "Biglow  Papers" 
against  war  and  slavery  and  war  for  slavery 
upon  Mexico,  and  later  I  had  read  those 
oritlcisms  of  English  poetry,  and  I  knew  Sir 
Launfal  must  be  Lowell  In  some  sort;  but 
my  love  for  him  as  a  poet  was  chiefly  centred 
in  my  love  for  his  tender  and  lofty  rhyme, 
"Auf  Wledersehen,"  which  I  cannot  yet 
read  without  something  of  tbe  young  pathos 
:  It  first  stirred  in  me.  I  knew  and  felt  his 
'  greatness  somehow  apart  from  tbe  liter- 
ary   proofs    of    it;     ho    ruled   my   fancy 


and  held  my  allegiance  as  a  character^ 
i as  a  man;  and  I  am  neither  sorry  nor 
ashamed  that  I  was  abashed  when  I  Aral 
came  into  his  presence ;  and  that  in  spite  of 
his  words  of  welcome  I  sat  Inwardly  quak- 
ing before  blm.  He  was  then  forty-oue  years 
old,  and  nineteen  my  senior,  and  If  there 
had  been  nothing  else  to  awe  ma,  I  might 
well  have  been  quelled  by  the  disparity  of 
our  ages.  But  I  have  always  been  willing 
and  even  eager  to  do  homage  to  men  who 
have  done  something,  and  notably  to  taea 
who  have  done  something  in  the  sort  I 
wished  to  do  something  in  myself.  I  could 
never  recognize  any  other  sort  of  superior- 
ity ;  but  that  I  am  proud  to  recognise ;  and 
I  bad  before  Lowell, some  such  fooling  as 
an  obscure  subaltern  might  have  before 
bis  general.  He  was  by  nature  a  Ml 
of  a  disciplinarian,  nnd  tbe  effect  was 
from  blm  as  well  ae  in  me;  I  dare 
say  he  let  me  feel  whatever  difference  there 
was  as  helplessly  as  I  felt  it.  At  tbe  first 
encounter  with  people  he  always  was  apt  to' 
have  a  certain  frosty  shyness,  a  smiling 
oold,  as  from  tbe  long,  btgh-sunned  winters 
of  his  Puritan  race ;  he  was  not  anile  him- 
self till  he  bed  made  you  aware  of  his  quali- 
ty ;  then  no  one  could  be  sweeter,  tenderer, 
warmer  than  he :  then  he  made  Ton  free  of 
his  whole  heart;  out  yon  must  b«  his  captive 
before  he  could  do  that.  His  whole  person- 
ality had  now  an  Instant  charm  for  me :  X 
could  not  keep  my  eyes  from  those  beautiful 
eyes  of  his,  whloh  had  a  certain  starry  seren- 
ity, and  looked  out  so  purely  from  under  bis 
white  forehead,  shadowed  by  auburn  hair 
untouched  with  age ;  or  from  the  smile  that 
shaped  tbe  auburn  beard  and  gave  the  face 
In  its  form  and  oolor  the  Christ-look  whloh' 
Page's  portrait  has  flattered  in  It.  , , 

His  voice  bad  as  great  a  fascination  for  »* 
as  bis  face.  Tbe  vibrant  tenderness  ariu  the 
criap  olearness  of  tbe  tones,  the  perfect  mod- 
ulation, ihe  dsar  enunciation,,  toe  exquisite 
accent,  the  elect  diction— I  did  not  know 
enough  then  to  know  that  these  were  the 
gifts,  these  were  the  graces,  of  one  from 
whose  tongue  our  rough  English  came  as 
muslo  such  as  I  should  never  pear  from  any 
other.  In  his  speech  there  was  nothing  of 
our  slipshod  American  slovenliness,  but  a 
truly  Italian  conscience  and  an  ertlstto  sense' 
of  beauty  in  the  instrument.  [From  "My 
First  Visit  to  New  England."  by  W.  X>. 
Ho  wells,  In  Harper's  Magaslsje  for  Jnne. 


Oldest   Family   la  the   Tvartd, 

Of  tbe  100  birons  la  th«*  British 
Jtousii  of  lords  aboxit  a  dozen  tfnte, 
■back  to  1400,  the  earliest  being  1234.; 
The  oldest  family  In  the  British  Isle&i  Is! 
the  Mar  family  In  Scotland.  109a\  Tbej 

Campbells  of  Argyll  began  In  1190. 
Talieyr  .□.!  dates  from  1199  and  Bis- 
marck fro..;  1270.  The  Grosvenor  fam- 
ily, the  Dr.!:*  af  Westminster,  1CCG; 
the  Austrian,  honse  of  Hupsbnrg  goes 
hack  to  95*  .md-  the  honse  of  Bonrhon 
to  SO*.  The  descendants  of  Mobanv 
med,  born  570,  are  all  registered  bare- 


fully  and  Authoritatively  In  a  book  kept 
In  Mecca  by  a  chief  of  tbe  family.  Lit- 
tle cr  no  donbt  exists  of  the  absolute 
authenticity  of  the  Ions  line  of  Moham- 
med's descendants.  In  China  there  are 
many  old  families;  also  among  the' 
Je-cvs.  But  In  point  of  pedigrees  tbe 
mikado  of  Japan  has  a  unique  record. 
His  place  has  been  filled  by  member! 
of  bis  family  toe  more  than  2,500 
years.  Tba  present  mikado  la  tbe  one 
hundred  and  twenty-second  In  the  line. 
The  first  one  was  contemporary-  with 
Kebuchadaesaar,  608  years  before 
Christ. 


••THE  OLD  CLOCK  OF  TUB  STAIEB,"| 

[Front  ('.f  Jwcllcrt'  Circular. J 
•TEriic  i  Louj$T«ltt>w,  nso:iofttte  crest  poet,' 
hns  •  <'.;r:iul  remembrance  of  his  father 
|rbi  -,i  lot  ney  cannot  boy.  It  is  nothing  i-iore 
po:  :  s  than  "T  i  Old  Clock  on  the  Hlairs,  " 
irndc  r«rnous?iy  his  fr.lhcr.  The  elorn  was 
hrmcriy  owned  liy  Tuo:u.-»kG.  AppleUm,  and 
*.  ln<  (lea  In  the  hvire,  llilnitlu^-  ihe  clock  was 
Cl  i-.ir:>M.l:r  value  io  Ernest  Loitgfeilow.  on 
Jkccou-r  i;  h»s  father';:  conneetloti  w;th  the 
enclcr.t  rccpleee,  donated  II  to  Ihe  son  of"  the 
ipe»,  *<>  itial  it  now  adorns  a  nco»  in  Ihe 
stairs <X  his  house  at  Mugooila.  ALass. 


