An 


j 


ID 


And -there  was  Am- 
erica 

CI 697S7 

#23 E25_ 

THE  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

of 
Fort  Wayne  and  Allen  County,  Ind. 
Information  For  Country  Borrowers 

Books  are  free  to  all 

residents  of  Allen 

County.  They  may 

be  borrowed  from 

the  Main  Library 

at  Fort  Wayne  or 

from  any  Branch, 

Reading     Room, 

Deposit  Station  or 

School    Library    in 

Allen  County. 

Books  will  be  sent  by 
parcel  post, prepaid  to  any 
borrower  living  a  distance 
from  a  Library  Station. 


COUNTY  DEPARTMENT 
ANTHONY  3333 


wu.  dbriUUUI 


LIBRARY    BUREAU    CAT.    NO.    116B 


Date  Due 


1 


And  There  Was  America 


And  There  Was 


America 


Written  and  Illustrated  by 
Roger  T>uvoisin 


TTTTTTVTVTTTTTTTTVTTTTVTTyTVVVVTTVVTTTTTTTTVTTyTTVVVTT 


NEW  YORK  •  ALFRED  A    KNOPF 


COPYRIGHT    I938   BY  ALFRED   A.    KNOPF,   INC.    ALL    RIGHTS   RESERVED. 
NO  PART  OF  THIS    BOOK   MAY  BE    REPRODUCED   IN   ANY   FORM   WITHOUT 


PERMISSION  IN  WRITING  FROM  THE  PUBLISHER,  EXCEPT  BY  A 
REVIEWER  WHO  MAY  QUOTE  BRIEF  PASSAGES  IN  A  REVIEW  TO  BE 
PRINTED  IN  A  MAGAZINE  OR  NEWSPAPER.  MANUFACTURED  IN  THE 
UNITED  STATES    OF    AMERICA. 


13 


X>.  SCHOOLS 

C13S787 


&  The  Stories 


TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTfTTTTTTTTTTV 


The  Stories 


TO   CHINA 


THE   SHIP   WITH   THE 
DRAGON  HEAD 

Leif  Ericson  and  his  brother  Thorvald — two  sons  of  the 
Norseman,  Eric  the  Red — find  a  new  country.        3  —  6 

ROUND    THE    WORLD 

ClTrTs?apher   Columbus   talks  with  several    kings   and  a 
queen  and  finds  some  unexpected   Indians.  7  — 14 

;\  ICEBERGS   AND 

John  Cabot,  an  Englishman,  says  good-bye  to  the  king 
ind  sails  in  the  polar  bear  country.  15  — 18 

THE    SPANIARDS   HUNT 

FOR    GOLD 

Ponce  Je  Leon  finds  Florida  instead  of  the  Fountain  of 


Youth;  De  Soto,  looking  for  gold,  discovers  the  great 
Mississippi  River.  19  —  24 

THE    FRENCH    TRADE 
FOR    FURS 

Cartier  finds  the  St.  Lawrence  River;  Champlain  draws 
maps  of  a  country  full  of  Indians  and  beavers;  La  Salle 
paddles  all  the  way  down  the  Mississippi  and  dreams  of 
a  French  America.  25  —  36 


THE    DUTCH   ALSO 
TRADE   FOR    FURS 

Henry  Hudson,  an  Englishman  in  a  Dutch  ship,  doesn't 
find  a  water  passage  through  America,  but  does  find  a 
splendid  place  for  trading.  37 —  40 

THE   ENGLISH   BUILD 

*^1&*  l  HOMES   IN  AMERICA 

^vTBPwt^ia 

Sir  Francis  Drake  makes  the  sea  safe  for  Englishmen; 
Walter  Raleigh  sends  settlers  to  Virginia,  but  they  find 
too  many  Indians  and  too  little  food;  gentlemen  go  to 


IN  ^ 


Jamestown  where  John  Smith  meets  Pocahontas;  slaves 
come  to  the  colony,  and  later  Cavaliers.  41  — $y 

IN  NEW  ENGLAND,  MARYLAND  AND 
PENNSYLVANIA 

The  Pilgrims  cross  the  ocean  in  the  Mayflower,  Miles 
Standish  keeps  up  their  courage,  and  the  Indians  are 
good  to  them;  the  Puritans  come  to  Massachusetts  but 
are  too  stern  for  Roger  Williams,  who  goes  on  to  Rhode 
Island;  Catholics  cross  the  sea  to  Maryland,  and  Quakers 
to  Pennsylvania.  57 —  J 5 

AND   IN  THE   END  THE   ENGLISH, 

WHO  MADE  HOMES 

IN  THE  NEW  COUNTRY, 

POSSESSED   THE    LAND 


TT 


And  There  Was  America 


[  Leif  landed  on  the  white  beach  ] 


The  Ship  with 
the  Dragon  Head 


Leif,  the  Norseman,  son  of  Eric  the  Red,  lived  in 
old  Greenland.  He  was  strong  and  tall.  To  look 
taller,  he  wore  on  his  head  a  helmet  with  two  iron 
wings  on  it. 

All  this  was  a  thousand  years  ago  in  a  country 
where  the  mountains  were  covered  with  ice  and  snow 
—  a  country  which  Leif  's  father  had  discovered  years 
before. 

Leif  wore  a  fine  red  tunic  and  a  heavy  belt.  He  was 
a  man  full  of  courage. 

Leif  was  a  fine  sailor  too.  His  ship  was  the  best  in 
Greenland.  It  had  a  dragon  head  high  up  in  the  front 
and  a  red  and  white  sail.  It  looked  like  a  great  bird 
with  striped  wings. 

"I  am  going  to  sail  east  to  Norway  to  visit  the 
king,"  said  Leif  one  fall.  "I  will  go  now  before  win- 
ter freezes  the  sea."  He  and  his*  thirty  sailors  with 
their  long  hair  down  on  their  necks  got  into  their 
ship.   They  hung  their  painted   shields  along  the 


sides  and  sailed  off  to 
Norway. 

The  King  of  Nor- 
way was  pleased   to 


see  Leif . 

"Will  you  stay  at  ^5PP! 
my  court  all  winter?" 
he  asked.  "I  will  give  you  many  presents."  So  Leif 
remained  until  spring.  Then  he  said,  "Pll  get  my 
ship  ready  and  go  back  to  Greenland  again." 

The  waves  tossed  the  ship  about.  Black  clouds  hid 
the  sky  all  day  and  the  stars  at  night.  Leif  was  lost. 

One  day  the  clouds 
blew  away.  The  sun 
came  out. 

"Land!"  a  sailor  cried. 
"There  is  land  ahead!" 
"This  is  not  Green- 
land," Leif  said.  "There 
is  no  ice  or  snow.  What 
£•    country  can  this  be?  See 
those   tall    trees.    They 
grow  almost  down  to  the  sea." 

Leif  and  some  of  his  sailors  put  out  the  small  boat. 
They  rowed  ashore.  "It  feels  good  to  be  here," 


5 

Leif  said.  "It  is  much  warmer  than  in  Greenland." 
"Let's  go  and  see  what  there  is  beyond  the  trees," 
said  a  sailor  who  had  two  horns  on  his  helmet.  He 
went  in  among  the  trees.  Soon  he  came  running 
back.  "Look  what  I  have  found,"  he  cried.  "Berries; 
berries  on  a  vine.  And  fine,  tall  grass!" 

"These  berries  are  grapes,"  said  an  old  sailor  with 
a  white  beard.  "The  grass  is  wheat.  Wheat  and  grapes 
don't  grow  in  Greenland,  but  I  have  seen  them  in 


warm  countries." 


"Let's  call  this  country  Vinland,  on  account  of 
the  vines,"  said  Leif.  "Vinland  is  a  fine  country." 

They  got  into  their  ship  again  and  sailed  away 
north  to  Greenland.  They  told  everybody  about  the 
grapes  and  the  wheat.  "I  want  to  see  this  country," 
said  Leif 's  brother  Thorvald. 

"We  want  to  see  it  too,"  cried  the  others.  "Let's 
sail  away  and  make  our  homes  in  Vinland."  They  got 
into  three  ships  and  put  out  to  sea. 

"Leif  told  the  truth,"  the  sailors  said  when  they 
came  to  Vinland.  "It  is  a  good  country.  We  like  it. 
We  are  going  to  build  our  homes  here." 

So  they  built  houses  and  planned  to  stay. 

But  there  were  Indians  in  Vinland.  They  did  not 
want  these  strangers  to  stay  in  their  country.  They 


took  their  bows  and  arrows  and  stole  up  toward  the 
Norsemen's  homes.  There  was  a  big  battle.  Thorvald 
was  killed. 

"We  cannot  be  safe  in  this  country,"  the  Norse- 
men said.  "There  are  too  many  Indians." 

They  made  their  ships  ready  once  more  and  re- 
turned to  Greenland.  But  Thorvald  lay  buried  in  the 
new  country  with  a  cross  at  his  head  and  another  at 
his  feet. 

The  story  of  Leif  Ericson  was  told  many  times  and 
came  to  be  one  of  the  most  famous  stories  among  the 
Norseman.  It  was  told  and  it  was  written  down,  but 
after  a  while  everyone  forgot  about  it  and  about  Vin- 
land,  the  country  Leif  Ericson  discovered,  which 
must  have  been  America. 


^k     »  fc  ^  Round  the  World 


to  China 


kkkkkti 


"I  wish  I  knew  a  safe  way  for  my  ships  to  go  to 
China/5  said  the  King  of  Portugal  nearly  five  hun- 
dred years  ago.  "There  are  so  many  things  I  could 
get  there.  I  could  get  silks,  jade,  and  turquoises;  sil- 
ver, gold,  and  many  kinds  of  spice." 

The  king  sent  a  ship  down  the  coast  of  Africa  to 
see  if  it  could  go  around  that  land  and  sail  east  to 
China.  But  the  sailors  were  afraid.  They  went  only 
a  little  way  and  returned  to  Portugal.  Another  ship 
tried.  Then  a  third,  and  a  fourth.  Each  went  a  little 
farther  than  the  ship  before.  But  still  there  seemed 
to  be  no  end  to  Africa. 

"There  is  a  sailor  named  Christopher  Columbus 
who  has  come  to  see  me,55  said  the  king  to  some  wise 
old  men.  "He  says  that  the  world  is  round.  He  says 
he  can  go  to  China  by  sailing  west  around  the  world. 
What  do  you  think?" 

The  wise  old  men  shook  their  heads  and  their  long 
white  beards. 


8 

"No,"  said  one.  "That  cannot  be  done." 

"No,"  said  another,  "he  will  sail  forever  and  he 
will  come  nowhere." 

"No,"  said  a  third.  "The  world  is  not  round.  It  is 
flat.  He  will  fall  off  the  edge." 

Then  the  king  forgot  about  Columbus  and  tried 
again  to  sail  east  around  Africa.  Columbus  went  to 
see  the  King  and  Queen  of  Spain. 

"If  you  will  give  me  a  ship,"  he  said,  "I  will  sail 
round  the  world  to  China.  I  will  fill  my  ship  with 
gold  and  precious  stones  and  spices  and  silk.  These 
I  will  bring  back  to  you." 

"This  is  interesting,"  said  the  king,  "but  I  am  too 
busy  with  my  armies.  Come  back  some  other  time." 

Columbus  went  to  see  the  King  of  England. 

"Your  idea  might  be  good,"  said  the  king,  "but  I 
have  no  ships  to  spare." 

Columbus  was  discouraged.  He  thought  about 
seeing  the  King  of  France.  "Go  to  see  the  King  of 
Spain  again,"  a  friend  said.  "He  is  no  longer  busy 
with  his  armies." 

So  Columbus  went. 

"What  will  you  do  for  me  if  I  give  you  some 
ships?"  the  King  of  Spain  asked  Columbus  this  time. 

"I  will  bring  you  all  the  precious  things  of  the 


9 

East,"  answered  Columbus.  "I  will  find  new  lands 
of  which  you  will  be  king.  I  will  also  teach  the  people 
of  China  the  stories  in  the  Bible." 

"And  what  do  you  want  for  yourself?"  asked  the 
queen. 

"I  want  to  be  admiral,"  said  Columbus.  "I  want  to 
be  governor  of  all  the  lands  I  find.  Besides  I  want  a 
part  of  all  the  things  that  I  bring  back." 

"Oh,  no!  That's  too  much,"  exclaimed  the  king 
and  the  queen  together.  "We  won't  give  you  any 
ships.  That's  too  much." 

The  tax-gatherer  heard  all  this.  He  said  to  the 
queen,  "You  are  making  a  mistake.  What  Columbus 
asks  won't  cost  you  much,  and  if  he  finds  a  way  to 
China  you  will  be  very  rich." 

"That  is  right,"  the  queen  decided.  "We  will  give 
him  the  ships." 

So  the  King  and  Queen  of  Spain  arranged  for  Co- 
lumbus to  have  three  ships:  a  large  one  named  the 
Santa  Maria,  a  medium-sized  one  named  the  Pinta, 
and  a  small  one  named  the  Nina.  And  Columbus, 
very  happy,  sailed  away. 

For  days  and  days  the  three  ships  sailed. 

"You  will  see  that  we  will  get  nowhere,"  said  a 
sailor  with  gold  rings  in  his  ears.  "We  shall  fall  off 


/• 


the  edge  of  the  world  and  be  lost.55 

" Before  that  happens,"  said  another,  "some  big" 
sea  serpent  will  have  swallowed  us  up,  ship,  masts 
and  all.55 

They  sailed  on  and  on.  They  could  see  nothing 
ahead  but  the  neat  line  where  the  blue  sea  ends  and 
the  blue  sky  begins.  Once  the  man  in  the  crow5s-nest 
cried,  "Land!  Land!55  But  he  had  cried  too  soon.  It 
was  only  a  cloud.  When  it  had  vanished  nothing  but 
the  sky  and  the  sea  could  be  seen. 

The  sailors  began  to  be  afraid. 

"This  sea  has  no  end,55  they  said.  "We  shall  sail 
like  this  forever.  We  shall  never  see  Spain  again.  We 
must  go  back.  We  will  go  back!55 


[  And  Columbus  sailed  away  ] 


1 1 


"Have  courage,"  Columbus  replied.  "We  shall 
soon  arrive  in  China.  Think  how  rich  you  will  be 
after  that." 

"We  don't  care  about  China.  Go  there  alone  if 
you  want  to,"  answered  the  sailors  together. 

Then  Columbus  grew  stern.  "We  will  not  turn 
back,"  he  said.  "And  I  will  put  in  irons,  in  the  dark 
jail  of  the  Santa  Maria,  the  first  one  who  com- 
plains." So  they  sailed  on. 

One  day  a  bird  flew  by.  Then  a  sailor  found  a 
stick.  It  was  not  a  plain  stick.  It  had  been  carved  by 
somebody.  That  was  a  sign  that  land  was  near.  The 
sailors  cheered  up.  Soon  they  saw  a  log,  and  a  branch 
with  berries.  Then  more  birds  flew  by. 


[  They  sailed  on  and  on  ] 


12 


IPjJ  k  Then    one    evening    Co- 

fp  ■    lumbus    thought    he    saw    a 

]|j  ■     light  ahead.  The  next  morn- 

Hlffl  I     ing  everyone   cried,  "Land! 

1I|1hH     Land!"   ' 
!l!  ftXll  ^"^s  time  ^  was  not  a  mis- 

take.  "Look!55  cried  the  sail- 
ors. "An  island!  It  is  all  cov- 
V      ered  with  palm  trees.  There 
are  people  on  the  shore." 
Columbus  took  the  banner  of  the  King  of  Spain 
in  one  hand  and  his  sword  in  the 
other  and  he  landed 
on  the  beach. 

"From  this  day  on," 
he  said,  "this  land  be- 
longs to  the  King 
and  Queen  of 
Spain." 


[  Columbus  saw  a  light  ] 


This  land  belongs  to  the  King  of  Spain  ] 


"It's  strange/5  said  a  sailor.  "The  people  of  this 
island  don't  have  yellow  skins  as  Chinese  should 
have.  They  have  red  skins.  And  they  don't  wear  silk 
robes  such  as  I  have  heard  that  the  Chinese  wear." 

It  was  true.  In  fact  these  people  did  not  wear  any- 
thing at  all.  Instead  they  painted  themselves  with 
bright  colors.  Some  had  their  faces  blue,  or  their 
bodies  red.  Some  had  just  painted  their  noses  yellow. 

Columbus  gave  these  people  red  caps  to  put  on 
their  coarse  black  hair,  and  strings  of  glass  beads  for 
their  arms  and  necks.  The  painted  people  were 
pleased  and  they  brought  presents,  too:  green  par- 
rots, balls  of  cotton,  fruits,  and  arrows.  "Now  let's 
go  look  for  the  King  of  China,"  said  Columbus. 

But  he  never  found  the  King  of  China,  for  this 
was  not  China  at  all.  Instead,  Columbus  had  discov- 
ered America.  But  he  didn't  know  it.  He  went  right 
on  looking  for  China's  cities.  He  found  many  beau- 
tiful islands.  He  saw  new  kinds  of  flowers  and  fruit, 
new  trees  with  birds  of  all  colors  in  them,  and  straw 
houses  where  the  Indians  of  these  islands  lived.  But 
he  saw  nothing  that  looked  like  Chinese  cities. 

"Let's  go  back  and  tell  the  King  and  Queen  of 
Spain  what  we  have  found,"  said  Columbus.  "Then 
we  can  come  again  and  look  some  more." 


i4 


So  Columbus  went  back  to  Spain.  How  happy  the 
people  were  when  they  saw  him  back!  They  led  Co- 
lumbus to  the  king  and  queen  at  the  head  of  a  noisy 
parade.  The  king  and  queen  made  Columbus  sit  next 
to  them.  They  made  him  tell  his  adventures  again 
and  again.  They  marveled  at  the  green  parrots,  the 
balls  of  cotton,  the  new  plants,  the  strange  beasts,  and 
at  the  painted  Indians  he  had  brought  back. 


Columbus  went  to  America  three  more  times.  He 
still  hoped  to  find  the  rich  cities  and  to  visit  the  great 
King  of  China.  He  never  knew  he  had  found  a  great 
new  land  which  no  one  in  Europe  had  known  since 
Leif  Ericson's  day  five  hundred  years  before. 

[  The  Queen  and  King  of  Spain  welcomed  Columbus  ] 


Icebergs  and 
Codfish 


"Oh,  oh!"  said  old  John  Cabot  the  sailor,  when 
the  news  of  Columbus  came  to  him  in  England.  "I 
am  going  to  China  too.  I  must  tell  the  king  about  it." 

"Very  good,"  said  the  King  of  England.  "Do  go 
to  China.  But  don't  go  south  where  Columbus  sailed. 
The  King  of  Spain  calls  that  his  land.  He  would  be 
angry.  You  go  farther  north." 

"I  will,"  answered  Cabot.  "And  I  will  set  up  your 
flag  in  all  the  countries  I  find.  They  will  be  yours 
forever  after." 

"But  I  have  no  ship  that  I  can  give  you." 

"I  have  a  ship.  It  is  not  very  large.  Only  eighteen 
men  can  sail  on  it.  But  it  is  a  good  ship.  Some  mer- 
chants gave  it  to  me." 

"Farewell,  then,  John  Cabot.  Give  my  best  wishes 
to  the  King  of  China." 

On  his  little  ship,  high  in  the  front  and  high  in  the 
back  like  a  Dutch  wooden  shoe,  John  Cabot  set  out 
for  China.  For  many  weeks  he  sailed. 


i6 


The  ship  swang  to 
and  fro  on  the  gray 
northern  sea. 

"By  my  long 
beard,"  said  Cabot, 
"it  is  not  very  warm 
here.  Look  at  these 
great  blocks  of  ice 
drifting  past  us." 

They  sailed  on 
and  on.  At  the  end 
of  seven  weeks 
Cabot  saw  land.  It 
was  gray  and  flat. 
Small  black  fir  trees  grew  on  it. 

"I  didn't  think  China  looked  like  this,"  remarked 
John  Cabot.  "Let's  sail  on  until  we  find  the  king  in 
his  yellow  silk  robe." 

But  Cabot  was  not  in  China  any  more  than  Co- 
lumbus had  been.  He  was  in  the  part  of  North 
America  which  is  now  called  Labrador.  So  he  did 
not  meet  any  people  dressed  in  silk.  He  did  not  meet 
any  people  at  all. 

"There  is  no  one  to  sell  us  food  in  this  land,"  said 
Cabot.  "We  had  better  go  back  to  England  before 


[  /  did  not  think  China  looked  like  this  ] 


i7 


we  starve,  for  we  have  little  food  left  in  our  ship." 

"Even  if  we  don't  see  any  people  on  land,"  said 

an  old  sailor,  "still  there  are  plenty  of  fish  in  the  sea. 

Look,  they  jump  and  glitter  around  our  ship.   It 

seems  as  if  the  sea  were  filled  with  new  silver  coins.' ' 

So  they  ate  fish  and  they  sailed  back  to  England. 

When  the   King  of  England   saw  John   Cabot 

safely  back,  he  was  very  pleased.  He  gave  him  fifty 

dollars.  "That's  for  having  found  those  new  lands," 

he  said. 

The  fishermen  of  France 
and  Portugal  heard  the 
story  about  the  fish  jump- 
ing all  around  the  boat. 

"We  must  go  to  that 
land  to  fill  our  boats  with 
those  fish,"  they  said. 
"Then  we  will  sell  them 
all  over  Europe." 

Every  year  after  that  the 
fishermen  of  France  and 
Portugal,  and  later  the 
fishermen  of  England, 
went  to  the  neighborhood  of  Labrador  to  catch  cod- 
fish where  Cabot  had  first  found  them. 


[  So  they  ate  fish  and  sailed  back  to  England  ] 


[  The  Fountain  of  Youth  is  on  an  island  over  there  ] 


▼YYYYYVYTTVYyYYYYTrT? 


The  Spaniards  Hunt 
for  Gold 


AAAAAA 


Among  green  palm  trees  and  red  Indians,  on  an 
island  which  Columbus  had  discovered,  lived  a  Span- 
iard named  Ponce  de  Leon.  He  was  sad. 

"I  have  sailed  with  Columbus,"  he  said.  "I  have 
conquered  new  lands  for  Spain.  I  am  governor  of  an 
island.  But  I  have  not  found  China's  golden  cities. 
And  now  my  beard  is  gray.  My  face  is  wrinkled.  I 


am  old." 


Ponce  de  Leon  shook  his  head,  and  the  blue 
feather  in  his  tall  hat  fluttered. 

"There  is  a  Fountain  of  Youth,"  an  Indian  said, 
"off  there  in  a  land  where  the  trees  grow  greener 
and  the  flowers  brighter.  Its  waters  make  old  men 
young." 

"I  shall  seek  this  fountain,"  said  Ponce  de  Leon. 
"Then  I  shall  be  stronger  again  and  I  can  sail  new 
seas  till  I  And  the  cities  of  China." 

Ponce  de  Leon  hung  his  sword  by  his  side.  He 
put  his  feathered  helmet  on  his  head  and  he  sailed 


20 


out  to  sea  in  his  wooden  ship. 

The  ship  came  to  a  new  land  where  trees  really 
were  taller  and  greener,  where  flowers  were  larger 
and  very  bright. 

"This  must  be  the  place/5  said  Ponce  de  Leon. 

He  went  ashore.  He  planted  the  flag  of  Spain  -in 
the  ground.  "I  shall  call  this  land  Florida,"  he  said, 
"and  it  now  belongs  to  the  King  of  Spain.5' 

Then  Ponce  de  Leon  explored  the  woods  and 
streams  of  his  new-found  land.  He  bathed  in  every 
river.  He  drank  from  every  spring.  Alas,  when  he 
returned  to  his  island  his  beard  was  still  gray.  His 
face  was  still  wrinkled.  "I  have  not  found  the  Foun- 
tain of  Youth,"  he  sighed,  "nor  the  cities  of  China. 
But  anyway  I  have  discovered  Florida." 

In  Spain  a  few  years  later  a  man  came  to  the  king. 

"There  is  ever  and  ever  so  much  gold  in  Florida," 
he  said.  "I  know.  I  have  been  there." 

Fernando  de  Soto,  a  Spanish  captain,  heard  this. 
He  said,  "I  want  to  get  some  of  this  gold.  I  will  sell 
my  houses  and  my  orchard  of  olive  trees  and  my 
vineyards.  I  shall  buy  a  ship  and  go  to  Florida." 

"We  will  help  you  find  gold,"  cried  many  soldiers. 
"We  will  sell  our  houses  too  and  go  with  you." 


■% 


21 


So  a  good  many  Spaniards  got  ready  to  sail  to 
America  to  look  for  gold.  They  buckled  on  their 
steel  armor.  The  horsemen  took  their  horses.  The 
foot-soldiers  took  their  cross-bows  and  muskets  and 
lances. 

"We  will  take  pigs  along  for  food,"  they  said,  and 
they  crossed  the  sea  to  Florida — men,  horses,  pigs, 
and  all. 

On  the  Florida  beach  the  horsemen  in  red,  blue, 
and  yellow  breeches  climbed  onto  their  horses.  The 
foot-soldiers,  in  polished  armor,  took  their  guns  and 
bows  and  lances.  The  pigs  squealed.  The  army  stood 
ready  behind  the  red  and  yellow  flag  of  Spain.  How 
gay  it  was! 

"Forward,  march!55  said  De  Soto,  and  the  army 
followed  him  into  the  woods.  They  followed  him 
through  muddy  swamps  and  across  rivers. 

"Go  north,55  the  Indians  said.  "There  men  wear 
hats  of  gold  when  they  go  to  war.55 

North  they  went,  for  days  upon  days.  "We  don5t 
see  any  gold,55  they  complained. 

Near  a  yellow  stream  among  the  pines  there  was 
a  little  village  of  brown  log  huts  with  roofs  of  leaves. 
Indians  were  gathering  corn  in  a  field. 

"Where  can  we  find  gold?55  the  Spaniards  asked. 


22 


"Where  the  sun  rises/5  replied  the  Indians,  "in  a 
young  queen's  country.55 

The  soldiers  helped  themselves  to  the  Indians5 
corn  and  took  it  with  them  and  marched  toward  the 
sunrise.  For  weeks  upon  weeks  they  marched. 

The  young  queen  lived  in  another  village  of  log 
huts  among  pines.  She  wore  a  blue  dress  of  deerskins 
and  a  crown  of  yellow  feathers  in  her  black  hair. 

"My  wish  is  to  serve  you,  great  Prince,55  she  said 
to  De  Soto.  And  she  gave  him  a  necklace  of  beads. 
"My  land,  my  people,  all  that  I  have  belongs  to  you.55 

"I  find  no  gold,55  said  De  Soto. 

"Go  twelve  days  toward  where  the  sun  sets,55  said 
the  queen. 

The  soldiers  took  some  of  the  Indians  and  put 
iron  chains  on  their  necks  and  made  them  go  along 


[  The  queen  gave  De  Soto  a  necklace  of  beads  ] 


23 


fFAU._.ttM». 


to  carry  the  food.  Toward  the  sunset  they  went,  for 
months  upon  months.  But  still  they  found  no  gold. 

"We  are  weary,"  said  the  soldiers.  "Our  armor  has 
grown  rusty.  Our  clothes  are  ragged.  Our  horses  are 
thin.  And  see  how  many  of  us  have  been  killed  by 
Indians." 

"Forward,"  said  De  Soto.  "The  gold  country  is 
ahead." 

Three  frightened  Indians  stood  wrapped  in  red 
blankets.  "The  gold  country  is  beyond  a  great  river 
farther  away,"  they  said. 

The  Spaniards  went  on.  They  came  to  the  great 
river.  It  was  so  wide  that  the  tall  trees  on  the  other 
side  looked  no  higher  than  bushes.  Its  water  was  yel- 
low and  muddy.  In  it  floated  big  logs  and  dead  trees, 
going  down  to  the  sea.  It  was  the  Mississippi. 


[  The  Spaniards  crossed  the  Mississippi  with  their  hungry  horses  ] 


24 

"We  will  build  boats  and  cross  the  great  river," 
said  De  Soto.  They  built  four.  The  ragged  hungry 
soldiers  and  their  starving  horses  crossed  the  big 
river.  But  still  there  was  no  gold. 

Now  De  Soto,  too,  was  weary  and  discouraged. 
He  fell  ill.  He  called  his  officers  and  said,  "I  am  very 
sick.  I  know  I  am  going  to  die.  I  have  led  you 
through  deserts  and  swamps.  We  have  fought  Indians 
together.  You  have  suffered  much  and  we  have  found 
nothing.  I  ask  you  to  forgive  me.55 

So  De  Soto  died.  His  soldiers  buried  him  in  the 
great  yellow  river,  the  Mississippi,  which  he  had 
discovered. 

Then  the  soldiers  built  a  ship.  "We  are  hungry 
and  tired  and  weak,"  they  sighed.  "We  are  a  dusty, 
rusty,  rickety  army.  We  have  found  no  gold,  and 
De  Soto  is  dead." 

And  they  sailed  back  to  Spain. 

Years  afterward  the  King  of  Spain  sent  people  to 
Florida  to  keep  the  King  of  France  from  taking  it. 
They  built  St.  Augustine,  the  first  town  for  white 
men  in  what  we  call  the  United  States. 


The  Frenchmen  Trade 
for  Furs 


lAAA 


"Oh!  Really,"  the  King  of  France  was  saying  to 
his  admiral.  "Really,  the  King  of  Spain  thinks  the 
whole  world  is  his.  He  is  setting  up  his  flag  all  over 
these  new  lands  which  Columbus  has  found.55 

"True,55  his  admiral  answered.  "Soon  there  won't 
be  a  big  enough  space  left  for  you  to  put  up  the  flag 
of  France.  Why  don5t  you  send  Jacques  Cartier  over 
there?  He  is  a  fine  French  captain.  He  knows  the 
sea  near  these  new  lands.  He  has  been  fishing  for  cod 
there.55 

"That  is  a  good  idea,  Admiral!  Tell  him  to  find 
these  mysterious  cities  of  China.  And  tell  him  to 
bring  back  gold,  too.55 

Soon  Jacques  Cartier  was  sailing  west.  When  he 
got  to  land  he  planted  a  wooden  cross  with  these 
words  carved  on  it:  "Long  live  the  King  of  France.55 

"That  will  stand  longer  than  a  flag,55  said  Cartier. 
"But  I  don5t  see  any  gold  or  any  city  around  here. 
There  are  only  green  woods  and  dancing  Indians.  I 


26 

will  look  about  some  more." 

But  Carrier  found  no  cities.  When  he  sailed  back 
to  France  the  best  thing  he  had  discovered  was  a 
beautiful  river,  the  St.  Lawrence,  in  a  land  which  he 
called  Canada. 

"Let's  forget  about  this  land/5  exclaimed  the  King 
of  France.  "It  has  no  gold.  It  is  not  China.  I  hear 
people  call  it  America." 

"Call  it  China  or  call  it  America  or  call  it  Canada," 
said  the  French  fishermen,  "we  shall  keep  on  going 
there  every  year  to  fish." 

"But  fishing  is  dangerous  and  we  are  paid  little," 
said  a  fisherman  whose  face  was  rough  from  the  salty 
sea  winds.  "I  am  tired  of  smelling  fish.  We  would 
get  more  money  if  we  got  furs  from  the  Indians  and 
sold  them  in  Europe.  We  only  have  to  give  the  In- 
dians axes  and  knives  and  beads  and  they  will  bring 
us  beautiful  fox  and  beaver  and  bear  skins." 

"You  are  right,"  said  the  other  fishermen  as  they 
wound  up  their  lines.  "Let  us  become  fur  traders." 

So  they  began  to  trade  with  the  Indians  for  furs. 
They  filled  their  ships  with  bear,  wolf,  fox  and 
beaver  skins.  And  they  grew  rich  enough  to  live  in 
castles. 

Now,  after  the  fishermen  and  the  fur  traders,  an- 


27 


other  Frenchman  came  to  Canada.  His  name  was 
Samuel  de  Champlain.  With  his  workmen  he  cut 
down  trees,  plowed  fields  and  built  the  first  town 
in  Canada.  He  called  it  Quebec. 

"It  is  a  very  small  town,"  said  Champlain,  "with 
only  four  houses  and  a  log  wall.  But  it  will  grow.  And 
we  shall  show  our  countrymen  that  Canada  is  better 


[  They  began  to  trade  with  the  Indians  for  furs  ] 


than  just  a  place 
for  fur  trading. 
And  then,  too,  we 
will  teach  the  Al- 
gonquin Indians 
in  Canada  to  like 
our  God." 

Just  then  the 
Algonquins  were  sitting  round  their  campfire  in 
the  woods  talking  about  other  things.  "We  must 
ask  this  great  white  chief  Champlain  to  help  us 
in  our  war,"  said  the  Algonquin  chief.  So  they 
sent  a  messenger  to 
Champlain. 

"Ugh!  Ugh!"  said 
the  Indian  warriors 
to  Champlain.  "Iro- 
quois Indians  are 
bad  Indians.  Help  us 
fight  them,  great 
white  chief." 

"I  will  help  you," 
replied  Champlain, 
"and  wherever  we 
go  I  will  make  maps 


[  The  beginning  of  Quebec  ] 


[  The  Algonquins  in  their  woods  ] 


29 


of  the  land.55  So  Champlain  and  two  Frenchmen 
put  on  their  armor.  They  took  their  muskets  and 
went  with  the  Algonquins  in  their  birch  bark  ca- 
noes. They  swarmed 
up  the  river  like  bees. 
They  sang  and  yelled. 
Birds  on  the  shore  flew 
up  in  fright. 

Up  the  St.  Lawrence 
River  they  paddled, 
then  up  another  clear 
river  to  the  south. 
After  a  while  they  came 
to  a  great  blue  lake 
with  green  mountains 
around  it. 

"Careful!"  said  the 
Algonquin  chief.  "We  are  in  the  Iroquois  country 
now.  We  must  hide  in  the  woods  by  day  and  paddle 
by  night." 

Then  suddenly  one  evening  the  canoes  of  the  Iro- 
quois appeared  in  the  dark.  "Here  they  are,"  cried 
the  Algonquins. 

"Here  they  come,"  shouted  the  Iroquois.  "Let's 
land  and  build  barricades  in  the  woods." 


[  Champlain  and  his  men  went  with  the  Algonquins  ] 


30 

Next  morning  the  Iroquois  saw  Champlain  and 
his  men.  "What  are  those  pale-faced  men  with  shift- 
ing things  on  their  heads?'5  they  asked.  "They  must 
have  come  down  from  the  sky.  What  are  those  queer 
sticks  in  their  hands?" 

Then  Champlain  raised  his  gun  and  fired. 

"Run,  run!"  the  Iroquois  shouted.  "It  is  a  stick 


[  Run,  run!  It's  a  stick  that  throws  lightning!  ] 


3* 

that  throws  lightning."  They  tumbled  over  one  an- 
other in  their  hurrv  to  flee. 

The  Algonquins  danced  for  joy  until  they  could 
stand  up  no  longer.  The  war  was  ended. 

"Well!"  said  Champlain.  "I  have  discovered  a  new 
river  and  a  new  lake  to  draw  on  my  map."  And  he 
drew  the  shape  of  Lake  Champlain. 

"I  will  make  other  trips  with  my  Indian  friends 
and  I  will  see  what  else  I  can  find." 

He  found  other  great  lakes  and  drew  them  in  their 
places. 

"Perhaps,"  said  Champlain  one  day,  "I  spend  too 
much  time  exploring  and  drawing  maps.  I  must  do 
something  about  my  town  of  Quebec.  It  does  not 
grow  fast  enough.  All  the  people  I  bring  from  France 
trade  with  the  Indians  for  furs  instead  of  building 
houses  and  plowing  fields." 

"But  Governor  Champlain,  why  should  we  make 
our  homes  in  this  cold  country?"  the  Frenchmen 
asked.  "We  want  to  become  rich  as  fast  as  we  can 
by  selling  furs.  Then  we  can  go  back  to  France,  our 
homeland." 

"I  love  New  France,  this  country  we  have  come 
to,"  answered  Champlain.  "I'll  work  until  I  am  old 
to  make  you  love  it  too  as  your  homeland." 


32 

But  most  of  the  Frenchmen  still  wanted  to  trade 
for  furs  instead  of  building  homes. 

One  day  in  Quebec  Rene  La  Salle  stood  on  the 
bank  of  the  St.  Lawrence  and  dreamed  of  a  giant 
river  farther  west  where  trees  on  the  other  bank 
looked  no  taller  than  bushes. 

"I  want  to  do  something  better  than  working  on 
my  farm  or  trading  for  furs,"  he  said.  "I  want  to  find 
out  where  the  Mississippi  goes.  I  will  build  a  sailboat 
and  sail  clear  down  it.  I  will  take  along  soldiers  and 
workmen  and  tools  so  I  can  build  towns  and  forts 
along  the  banks.  Then  the  flag  of  France  will  fly 
over  America  all  the  way  from  north  to  south." 

For  all  this  Rene  La  Salle  needed  money,  so  he 
borrowed,  because  he  was  not  rich.  With  his  soldiers 
he  went  west.  Near  the  Mississippi  River  he  put  up 
a  fort.  Then  he  built  a  sailboat  and  was  ready. 

"I  hear  that  the  tools  and  the  workmen  I  wanted 
have  come  from  France,"  he  said  to  his  sailors.  "I  am 
going  back  to  Quebec  to  bring  them." 

On  the  St.  Lawrence  River  as  he  was  going  back 
to  Quebec  La  Salle  met  someone  who  said,  "The 
ship  that  was  bringing  your  tools  has  sunk.  Your 
workmen  have  gone  back  to  France." 


33 

"Then,"  answered  La  Salle,  "I  will  sell  my  farm 
and  buy  other  tools  and  hire  other  workmen." 

"Oh,  but  the  people  who  lent  you  money  have 
sold  your  farm." 

"Then  I  still  have  many  furs  that  the  Indians  are 
bringing  me  in  their  canoes." 

"But  don't  you  know?  Your  furs  are  at  the  bottom 
of  the  river.  Those  canoes  have  sunk." 

Just  then  two  men,  with  ragged  and  muddy  deer- 
skin coats,  came  running  up  to  La  Salle.  "We  come 
from  the  fort  that  you  built  near  the  Mississippi," 
they  said.  "Your  soldiers  have  pulled  it  down.  They 
have  left  your  ship  to  rot  in  the  woods." 

"Things  are  very  hard  for  me,"  said  La  Salle.  "But 
never  mind.  We  will  go  down  the  Mississippi  in  ca- 
noes. And  I  will  build  towns  and  forts  later." 

Then  La  Salle  turned  west  again.  Back  across  the 
Great  Lakes  he  went,  and  on  through  the  long 
woods.  Finally  one  cold  winter  day,  with  a  few  sol- 
diers, some  Indians,  and  a  priest,  he  came  to  the  Mis- 
sissippi. They  all  got  into  canoes.  Down  the  great 
river  they  paddled,  past  the  black  leafless  trees  on 
the  banks,  which  looked  like  giant  whisk  brooms 
turned  up  toward  the  gray  sky;  past  buffalo  and  deer, 
drinking  at  the  edge  of  the  water;  past  Indian  vil- 


34 


lages  from  which  there  sometimes  came  the  rumble 
of  war  drums.  The  Mississippi  grew  broader  and 
broader.  The  weather  grew  warmer. 

"The  trees  have  leaves  and  even  flowers  on  them 
here,55  said  the  priest. 

"The  sun  is  warm  enough  now  to  make  flowers 
bloom,55  answered  a  soldier,  "but  it  also  makes  pad- 
dling harder.55 

"Look!55  cried  an  Indian.  "There  is  a  sleepy  alli- 
gator. He  looks  as  dead  as  an  old  log.55 

And  they  paddled  on  and  on,  in  the  rushing  cur- 
rent. 

"We  must  be  near  the  sea,55  said  La  Salle  one 
morning.  "Taste  the  water;  it  is  salty.55 

And  indeed,  the  sea  was  not  far  away.  Suddenly, 
around  the  last  bend,  there  it  was,  all  blue  in  the  sun. 


[  La  Salle  paddles  down  the  Mississippi  ] 


35 


The  shining  ripples  looked  like  thousands  of  jump- 
ing fish.  ,    CO.  SCHOOLS      C13S787 

"It  is  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  where  the  Spaniards 
sail!"  cried  La  Salle.  And  his  soldiers  shouted  for  joy 
at  sight  of  the  sea.  "It  seems  as  good  as  when  the 
sailors  with  Columbus  first  saw  land/5  they  said. 

By  the  river's  mouth  La  Salle  planted  the  flag  of 
France  and  a  cross  on  which  they  carved:  "Louis, 
King  of  France." 

La  Salle  pulled  out  his  sword  and  said,  "All  the 
country  where  the  Mississippi  flows  belongs  to  King 
Louis  of  France.  I  name  it  after  him,  Louisiana." 

They  stood  for  a  while  looking  at  the  sea,  and 
talking  of  the  new  land  that  now  belonged  to  their 
king. 

"Now  we  must  paddle  up  the  Mississippi,  back  to 


[  Louisiana  belongs  to  the  King  of  France  ] 


36 

Quebec,55  said  La  Salle.  "Then  I  will  go  to  France 
to  ask  the  king  to  help  me  bring  French  people  to 
Louisiana." 

When  the  King  of  France  received  La  Salle  in  his 
fine  palace  he  said,  "I  am  pleased  with  what  you  have 
done.  I  will  give  you  four  ships  with  soldiers  and 
farmers  and  tools.  You  shall  sail  south  to  where  the 
Mississippi  meets  the  sea,  and  you  shall  build  towns 
and  forts  there.55 

La  Salle  bowed  before  the  king.  He  was  happy. 
"Now  my  dreams  come  true,55  he  thought.  "Now  I 
will  begin  the  making  of  a  great  New  France  in  a 
warmer  country  than  Quebec.55 

But  some  months  later  on  a  deserted  beach  of 
the  Gulf  of  Mexico  a  few  hungry,  sick  men  were 
all  La  Salle  had  left  of  his  dream.  "Here  I  am,55  said 
he  sadly.  "My  best  fine  French  ship  was  taken  by 
the  Spaniards.  Two  of  my  ships  have  sunk.  Now  the 
fourth  has  deserted  me  and  gone  back  to  France. 
Most  of  my  men  have  died,  and  here  I  am,  sick  on 
an  empty  shore.55 

Then  some  of  La  Salle5s  men  turned  against  him. 
They  hid  behind  some  trees,  and  they  shot  him. 
And  so  ended  La  Salle5s  sad  story  and  all  his  beauti- 
ful dreams. 


▼TTTTTTTTTTV 

I 


The  Dutch  Also 


^,|^'  Trade  for  Furs 


While  Champlain  was  busy  making  maps  in 
America,  before  La  Salle  sailed  down  the  Mississippi, 
an  English  sea  captain  named  Henry  Hudson  wanted 
to  do  one  thing  very  much.  It  was  the  same  thing 
Columbus  had  dreamed  of  doing:  finding  a  short 
way  to  China. 

"I  am  sure  I  can  reach  China  by  sailing  north 
around  Europe/5  said  Hudson  to  some  London  mer- 
chants. 

"Perhaps  you  can,"  answered  the  merchants.  "But 
we  have  already  given  you  a  ship,  and  you  didn't  find 
any  passage.  The  ice  stopped  you." 

"Give  me  another  ship  and  I  will  try  again.  Then 
you  will  grow  rich,  trading  with  China." 

"No,  no,  we  can't  keep  giving  you  ships." 

"Then  I  shall  ask  the  Dutch  merchants.  They 
want  me  to  find  that  new  passage  for  them.  They 
are  tired  of  sailing  to  China  around  Africa  by  the 
route  the  Portuguese  found.  It  is  too  long." 


38    • 

So  finally  the  Dutch  merchants  gave  Hudson  the 
ship  Half  Moon  and  he  sailed  off  to  find  a  way  to  go 
north  of  Europe  to  China.  He  went  far  into  icy  seas. 
But  the  Dutch  sailors  said,  "This  is  too  near  the 
North  Pole.  Our  ship  will  be  broken  in  the  ice.  We 
will  freeze  to  death.  We  must  go  back." 

"No;  we  must  seek  a  new  way  to  China,"  said 
Hudson.  "We  cannot  go  back.  One  thing  we  could 
do,  though.  Map  makers  tell  me  there  is  a  passage 
by  water  through  America.  If  there  is,  that  must  lead 
to  China.  We  can  go  there  and  see." 

"All  right,"  said  the  sailors.  "We  like  that  better." 

Then  the  Half  Moon  turned  about.  She  crossed 
the  ocean  to  America. 

"Now,"  said  Hudson,  "we  shall  look  into  every 
nook  and  bay.  Surely  we  shall  find  that  passage." 

Alas,  for  weeks  all  the  inlets  Hudson  saw  were  but 
bays  or  rivers.  One  day  the  Half  Moon  came  into  a 
large,  wide  harbor.  Henry  Hudson's  heart  grew 
happy.  "It  is  the  passage  we  are  looking  for,"  he  said. 
"See  how  far  inland  it  goes.  We  cannot  see  its  end." 

A  large  island  lay  in  the  bay.  On  it,  under  old  oak 
and  maple  trees,  there  was  an  Indian  village.  The 
Indians  got  into  their  canoes  and  brought  presents 
of  fresh  huckleberries  out  to  the  sailors. 


39 


"We  will  sail  through  the  passage  now,  and  see  if 
we  come  to  the  China  Sea,"  Hudson  said. 

For  days  the  Half  Moon  sailed  on  the  clear  water 
between  cliffs  green  with  old  forests.  At  first  Hud- 
son and  his  sailors  were  full  of  hope.  Then  they  grew 
sad.  "Pm  afraid  this  passage  is  nothing  but  a  river," 
said  Hudson  at  last.  "See  how  narrow  it  becomes. 
The  water  is  no  longer  salty." 

"Soon  there  won't  be  enough  water  for  our  ship  to 
sail  on,"  answered  a  tall,  thin  sailor. 

"It  is  true,"  sighed  Hudson.  "We  must  turn  back. 
But  still,  even  if  the  Dutch  merchants  can't  reach 
China  this  way  they  can  come  here  to  trade  for  furs 
with  the  Indians.  The  woods  are  filled  with  bears  and 
wolves  and  beavers." 

So  Hudson  sailed  back  to  Europe  with  no  news 


[  There  was  an  Indian  village  ] 


40 

of  China  but,  like  Jacques  Carrier,  he  had  a  story 
about  a  beautiful  river. 

Then  the  Dutch  built  a  little  trading  town  on  the 
island  where  the  huckleberries  grew  and  called  it 
New  Amsterdam.  There  they  traded  for  furs.  Finally 
the  English  took  the  town  and  named  it  New  York. 
It  grew  to  be  the  world's  biggest  city.  The  island 
kept  its  Indian  name,  Manhattan,  and  the  river  was 
named  the  Hudson  after  the  English  captain  of  the 
Half  Moon. 


[  New  Amsterdam  ] 


The  English  Build 
Homes  in  America 


Francis  Drake,  a  bold  English  sea  captain,  was  sit- 
ting in  an  inn  in  England  telling  a  story. 

"All  our  English  ships  were  in  the  harbor,"  he 
was  saying,  "in  the  New  World  which  the  Spanish 
think  belongs  to  them.  Well,  the  Spaniards  came 
sailing  into  the  harbor  and  they  burned  all  our  ships 
except  one.  The  little  one  I  was  on  slipped  out  and 
got  away.  Now  I  am  certainly  going  to  fight  the 
Spaniards." 

Francis  Drake  took  off  his  coat  with  the  ruffled 
lace  sleeves.  He  put  on  his  coat  with  the  plain  wide 
cuffs.  He  went  out  to  his  ship  in  the  harbor. 

"The  Spaniards  think  that  we're  afraid  of  them," 
he  said,  "but  Pm  going  to  show  them  we're  not. 
They  send  their  big  ships  which  they  call  galleons  to 
America.  They  load  them  full  of  gold  and  silver. 
They  think  they  own  the  whole  American  coast, 
especially  Mexico  and  South  America.  They  call  it 
the  Spanish  main." 


42 

Then  Drake  sailed  up  and  down  the  American 
shores  and  around  the  tip  of  South  America.  He 
fought  every  Spanish  vessel  he  saw.  He  burned  the 
big  galleons  and  he  sank  them,  and  he  took  away 
their  gold. 

"We  are  going  to  show  them  that  they'd  better 
not  fight  the  English/5  he  said. 

Then  he  sailed  home  around  the  world  with  his 
wealth.  Queen  Elizabeth  welcomed  him  and  made 
him  a  knight  and  everyone  called  him  "Sir." 

The  Spanish  sailors  began  to  be  afraid.  They 
named  Sir  Francis  Drake  the  Dragon. 

"Now  that  Drake  has  made  it  safe  for  us  in  Amer- 
ica,55 said  a  gentleman  in  Queen  Elizabeths  court, 
"we  ought  to  go  there  to  hunt  gold  as  the  Spaniards 
do,  or  to  trade  for  furs  like  the  French.55 

"Yes,  we  ought  to  go  to  America,55  said  a  young 
poet  who  was  dressed  in  laces  and  velvet  and  colored 
silk.  "But  we  must  not  hunt  for  gold  or  for  fur.  We 
must  build  towns  so  we  can  keep  the  land  for  Eng- 
land.55 

"You  are  right,  Walter  Raleigh,55  said  the  queen. 

So  Walter  Raleigh  sent  some  Englishmen  to  the 
part  of  America  called  Virginia.  They  were  not  very 
happy  there.  They  weren5t  good  to  the  Indians  so 


43 

when  the  Englishmen  got  hungry  the  Indians 
wouldn't  sell  them  any  food. 

"We  will  starve  here  in  Virginia/5  said  the  English. 

Then  one  day  Francis  Drake  came  sailing  by. 

"Take  us  back  to  England/5  said  all  of  Raleigh's 
men.  "We  can't  live  here.  We  have  no  food.  We  are 
sick.  We  want  to  go  home." 

So  Drake  took  them  back  to  England. 

"I'll  have  to  send  other  men  on  other  ships,"  said 
Walter  Raleigh.  "I  know  how  they  can  make  a  liv- 
ing in  America.  Tobacco  grows  well  in  Virginia. 
The  Indians  smoke  it.  I'll  teach  Englishmen  to 
smoke  it  too.  Then  my  men  in  Virginia  can  grow 
tobacco.  They  can  sell  it  to  men  in  England  and  with 
the  money  they  get  they  can  buy  food." 

"Smoking  may  be  good  for  savages,"  laughed  Ra- 
leigh's friends.  "But  for  us?  Making  smoke  with  a 
pipe?  Pooh!  It  smells  bad.  And  it  would  spoil  our 
laces." 

"You  are  wrong,"  Queen  Elizabeth  said.  "Ra- 
leigh is  clever.  He  can  make  gold  out  of  smoke  while 
others  only  make  smoke  out  of  gold." 

So  Raleigh  sent  more  men  to  Virginia.  Again  they 
had  too  little  food.  "We  will  starve  before  the  corn 
we  have  planted  can  ripen,"  they  said. 


44 

They  went  to  their  governor. 

"You  must  go  back  to  England  and  get  food 
for  us,"  they  told  him. 

"I  don't 
like  to  go 
just  now," 
replied  the 
governor. 
"My  daugh- 
ter has  a  new 
baby,  Vir- 
ginia Dare. 
She    is     the 

first  English  child  to  be  born  in  America.  I  don't 
want  to  go  off  and  leave  them  right  now  in  this  wild 
country." 

"But  you  must  go,"  cried  the  men.  "We  will  all 
starve  if  you  don't." 

So  the  governor  went  back  to  England.  He  went 
right  to  Walter  Raleigh  to  get  help. 

"Queen  Elizabeth  can't  spare  a  single  ship  even 
to  send  food  to  Virginia,"  Raleigh  said.  "The  Span- 
ish are  fighting  us  because  of  the  way  Francis  Drake 
burned  their  galleons,  and  for  a  lot  of  other  things 
too.  They  are  sending  a  big  Spanish  fleet  called  the 


[  So  the  governor  went  ] 


45 


Armada  to  fight  us  in  England.  We  need  all  our  ships 
here." 

The  governor  waited.  He  waited  and  waited.  Fi- 
nally the  great  Spanish  Armada  came  and  was  beaten. 
Sir  Francis  Drake  burned  many  of  its  ships. 

"Now  that  is  over  and  I  can  go  back  to  Virginia," 
said  the  governor. 

At  last  he  got  the  ship 
and  the  food  and  he 
sailed  for  America.  It  had 
been  four  years  since  he 
had  left.  "My  little  grand- 
daughter will  be  old 
enough  to  walk  and 
talk/'  he  said. 

The  ship  came  to 
the  Virginia  harbor. 
The  men  rowed  ashore. 
Everything  was  quiet. 
Nobody  welcomed  them.  They  went  to  the  spot 
where  the  log  houses  stood.  No  one  was  there.  Doors 
were  left  open.  Weeds  grew  around  the  houses  and 
inside.  The  governor  and  the  sailors  looked  every- 
where. They  hunted  through  all  the  country  round, 
but  they  never  found  the  people  who  had  been  left 


[  Weeds  grew  around  the  houses 


46 

in  Virginia.  They  never  knew  what  happened  to 
Virginia  Dare. 

In  England  a  few  years  later  some  merchants  were 
gathered  around  a  big  table  talking.  "Walter  Ra- 
leigh's town  in  Virginia  has  failed,"  they  said,  "but 
still  we  should  try  again.  America  is  a  rich  country 
and  we  should  send  Englishmen  there." 

"It  costs  a  lot  for  ships  and  tools  and  food,"  said  a 
merchant  who  had  a  wide  white  ruff  around  his  neck 
so  that  he  looked  as  if  his  head  were  on  a  platter. 

"Perhaps  it  costs  too  much  for  one  person,55  said 
another  with  long  dark  curls.  "But  if  we  would  all 
put  our  money  together  we  would  have  enough.55 

"All  right,  we  will  do  that,55  they  agreed.  "We 
will  stay  in  London  and  only  send  our  men  to  Vir- 
ginia; so  let5s  call  ourselves  the  London  Company.55 

The  London  Company  bought  three  ships.  They 
loaded  them  with  people  and  tools  and  food  and 
clothes.  They  sent  them  off  to  make  homes  in 
America. 

By  an  island  in  a  river  in  Virginia  the  three  ships 
let  down  their  anchors.  The  men  went  ashore  and 
looked  about.  "We  will  build  homes  here  on  this 
island,55  they  said.  "We  will  call  the  river  the  James 


47 


River  and  our  town  we  will  name  Jamestown,  for  we 
want  to  honor  the  new  English  king,  James  I. 

They  cut  down  trees  and  sawed  up  logs.  They 
built  houses  and  they  planted  gardens. 

"My  hands  are  getting  blistered/5  one  tired  man 
said. 

"I  have  cut  my  knee  with  an  ax,"  said  the  man 
who  was  working  next  him. 

"The  sun  burns  me  and  the  mosquitoes  bite  and  I 
have  skinned  my  knuckles  on  the  rough  logs  and 
bruised  my  shin  when  a  tree  fell,55  said  a  third. 

It  was  hard  work  and  these  men  had  never  worked 
that  way  before.  They  had  never  lived  in  a  new  coun- 
try. Besides  it  was  hot  and  damp  on  the  island.  Many 


[  //  was  hard  work  ] 


!ff  fMf  )  Oohn  CaboT  looks  for  ft*.  Kin 
of  China  and  he  finds  Codf  i< 

1(9513.)  Ponce  deLeon  cannot find  The 

Fonfam  of  Youth  but  he  discovers 
/_  Florida. 

id*  I1/ )  Cartier  in  search  of  China  disco uers 
fhe  Sr-lawrence» 

lS*fl)  De  Soto  crosses  the  MisS*iss*H>f"  1° 

if  there  is  gold  on  the  other  side 

foK)    Spaniards  build  S'Augusffne. 

S{I58$)  Raleigh  sends  the  first  English 
colowsfc To  America. 

ff60f)%e  beginning  o\  Virginia. 

ffrWOiam  plain  Imlds  Quebec. 

%)/i6(M\Hvdson  saik  up  the  Hudson 
^  Rivet- in  a  Dutch  snip. 

*^J<»620)Th.e  Mayflower  comes  to 
frw         Plymouth 

tt(i628)  W»  fans  come  to  New  England 

'  and    build  Salem. 

#»/f6£*tord  Baltimore  sends |  English  | 
/Sfff°5*  catholics  to  Marqland. 
J3li6W)  William  Fenn  brings  Quakers 
to   Pennsylvania. 

Al*2)U  Salle  sails  down  tWe 
'  HHs*is5'n>pi . 


^pa*^ 


50 

fell  sick.  Some  died  of  the  fever.  Then  there  were 
the  Indians. 

The  Indians  crept  up  to  watch  through  the  wil- 
lows. "Who  are  these  pale-faced  men?"  they  asked. 
"They  are  cutting  down  our  trees.  They  are  spoiling 
our  land." 

Then  the  red  men  crawled  through  the  grass  and 
shot  their  long  arrows.  Many  Englishmen  were 
killed. 

"We  can't  stay  here/'  said  the  rest.  "This  is  too 
hard  a  place  to  live.  Our  gardens  have  nothing  good 
to  eat  in  them  yet.  How  can  we  keep  from  starving?" 

"We  can  hunt  as  the  Indians  do,"  said  a  young 
man  with  a  yellow  beard.  "They  get  deer  and  wild 
turkeys  in  the  woods,  and  honey  from  wild  bees.  We 
can  do  that  too.  I  think  Pll  go  right  now." 

So  John  Smith  went  hunting  and  the  other  men 
went  too. 

After  they  had  learned  how  to  hunt,  John  Smith 
said,  "I  am  going  to  look  at  the  country  around  here 
carefully.  I  want  to  make  a  map  of  Virginia." 

He  took  his  pistol  and  two  other  men  took  their 
arquebuses.  They  got  into  a  canoe.  Up  the  river  they 
paddled. 

Indians  were  watching  in  the  woods.  They  put 


5i 

their  arrows  in  their  bows.  There  was  a  whirring 
sound.  Two  men  in  the  canoe  fell  over  with  arrows 
through  them. 

The  Indians  rushed  out  and  took  John  Smith 
prisoner. 

They  tied  him  to  a  tree. 

"I  can  see  by  their  black  angry  eyes  that  they  mean 
to  torture  me,"  John  Smith  thought  to  himself.  He 
took  out  his  compass.  "Look  at  this,"  he  said. 

The  Indians  pushed  each  other  to  put  their  fingers 
on  the  little  needle  which  moved  all  by  itself.  But 
they  couldn't  touch  it  because  of  the  glass. 

"There  is  magic  in  this  little  box,"  they  grunted. 
"Ugh!  This  white  man  is  a  god.  We  had  better  not 
kill  him.  He  might  make  the  sky  fall  on  us." 

"Untie  him,"  ordered  their  leader.  "We  will  take 
him  to  the  wigwam  of  our  great  chief,  Powhatan." 

Powhatan  was  sitting  among  his  red-painted  war- 
riors. He  wore  a  robe  of  raccoon  skins  with  the  tails 
hanging  all  around.  "This  is  not  a  god,"  he  said. 
"This  is  a  man.  He  must  die." 

But  Powhatan  had  a  daughter,  Pocahontas.  "I 
like  this  white  stranger,"  she  said  and  she  threw  her- 
self in  front  of  him  so  he  couldn't  be  killed. 

"Let  him  live,"  said  Powhatan.  "Since  my  daugh- 


52 

ter  likes  him,  we  will  not  kill  him.  We  will  adopt 
him  into  our  tribe." 

Then  the  Indians  let  John  Smith  go,  and  he  went 
back  again  to  Jamestown. 

"We  are  glad  you  have  come  back,55  said  his 
friends.  "You  always  get  along  with  the  Indians. 
When  you  are  away  they  will  not  sell  us  food  but 
when  you  ask  them  to,  they  give  us  corn.  Besides 
you  teach  us  how  to  fish  and  hunt.  You  seem  to 
learn  more  quickly  than  any  of  us  how  to  get  along 
in  this  wild  land." 

So  they  chose  Smith  for  their  leader.  Pocahontas 
and  her  people  visited  them  and  brought  dried  meat 
and  corn  for  presents.  Jamestown  grew  to  be  a  happy 
town. 

Then  one  day  some  gunpowder  exploded  and 
John  Smith  was  wounded.  "I  must  sail  back  to  Eng- 
land to  see  a  doctor,"  he  said. 

"That  is  bad  for  us,"  said  the  Virginians.  "Now 
that  our  captain,  John  Smith,  has  gone  away,  some  of 
our  people  will  quarrel  with  the  Indians.  Then  the 
Indians  will  not  sell  us  corn  and  meat.  Maybe  they 
will  fight  us.  Nothing  worse  could  have  happened." 

They  were  right.  When  winter  had  frozen  the 
ground  the  red  men  refused  to  come  with  their  corn. 


[  The  Indians'  arrows  whistled  around  the  canoe  ] 


54 

Instead  they  came  with  bows  and  arrows.  Again  they 
killed  many  Englishmen.  Hunger  and  cold  killed 
many  others.  Only  a  few  colonists  saw  the  spring 
bring  green  leaves  to  the  woods.  Those  few  were  thin 
and  pale  and  hungry. 

"The  first  ship  that  comes  here  will  take  us  back 
to  England,"  they  said.  "We  have  had  enough  of 
these  wild  woods  with  their  wild  Indians." 

But  the  next  ship  that  came  was  so  full  of  good 
food,  of  fine  tools  and  also  of  new  farmers  and  car- 
penters, that  the  hungry  Virginians  felt  differently. 

They  sang  for  joy. 

"Let  us  stay  after  all,"  they  said.  "Let  us  rebuild 

Jamestown!" 

And  now  James- 
town really  grew. 

As  they  were  talk- 
ing everything  over 
in  Jamestown  one 
day,  one  of  the 
men  said,  "You 
know  Walter  Raleigh 
thought  we  should 
grow  tobacco  in  Vir- 

[  Indians  crept  up  through  the  long  grass  ] 


55 


ginia.  Many  English- 
men are  smoking  now. 
We  could  sell  all  the 
tobacco  we  could 
grow.  We  could  be 
rich." 

So  in  Virginia  fields 
and  more  fields  were 
planted  to  tobacco. 

"We  could  do  bet- 
ter still  if  we  had  more 
people  to  work  in  the 
fields,"  a  tall  man  ex- 
plained as  he  hung  tobacco  leaves  up  to  dry.  "All  the 
Englishmen  who  come  want  to  have  their  own  to- 
bacco fields.  They  don't  want  to  work  for  us." 

"I  have  what  you  want,"  answered  a  Dutch  cap- 
tain. He  had  just  sailed  into  Jamestown  harbor.  "I 
have  negroes  in  my  ships.  I  brought  them  from 
Africa.  I  will  sell  them  to  you  and  they  will  be  your 
slaves  and  do  your  work." 

"That  is  just  the  thing,"  said  the  Virginians.  "We 
will  buy  your  negroes." 

And  they  did. 

So  negro  slaves,  working  hard  and  singing  on 


[  Hunger  and  cold  killed  many  ] 


the  tobacco  plantations,  helped  to  make  Virginia 
wealthy. 

In  the  meantime,  in  England,  the  people  couldn't 
agree  as  to  how  the  king  should  rule  the  country. 

"The  king  is  a  good  man,"  said  his  friends,  the 
Cavaliers.  "We  are  for  him." 

"He  is  not,"  said  the  Puritans.  "Let's  get  rid  of 
him." 


[  /  brought  them  from  Africa  ] 


57 

So  they  quarreled.  And  finally  they  took  their 
muskets  and  swords  and  fought  it  out.  The  Puritans 
won  and  they  cut  off  the  king's  head. 

"That  makes  it  bad  for  us,55  said  the  Cavaliers. 
"Our  land  will  be  taken  away  from  us.  Our  heads 
might  be  cut  off  too.  Since  we  have  many  friends  in 
Virginia,  let's  go  there  and  become  planters." 

So  the  Cavaliers  went  to  Virginia.  They  were  fine 
men  who  had  studied  and  thought  and  talked  with 
the  king.  They  helped  make  Virginia  prosperous. 
One  of  them  was  John  Washington,  whose  great- 
grandson  would  be  named  George. 


II 


About  the  time  Jamestown  was  started,  before  the 
Cavaliers  and  Puritans  fought  each  other,  people  in 
England  had  forgotten  how  to  live  happily  together. 

"We  are  Catholics,"  said  some.  "We  will  do  as 
the  Pope  in  Rome  tells  us." 

"We  are  Englishmen,"  said  others.  "We  will  have 
nothing  to  do  with  the  Pope.  We  will  do  as  our  king 
and  our  government  tell  us." 


58 

"We  are  Puritans,55  said  still  others.  "We  will  do 
only  as  it  is  written  in  the  Bible.  Let  us  break  away 
from  the  king5s  church  and  have  one  of  our  own.55 

The  king  heard  this.  "Who  dares  to  disobey  my 
orders?55  he  said.  "Let  me  hear  no  more  talk  of  this 
new  church.55 

The  people  who  obeyed  the  king  were  the 
stronger.  They  made  life  difficult  for  the  others. 

"We5ll  have  to  leave  England,55  said  some  of  the 
unhappy  people.  "Let  us  go  to  Holland.  The  Dutch 
people  let  each  man  go  to  the  church  that  pleases 
him.55 

So  they  sailed  to  Holland. 

They  were  the  Pilgrims. 

Ten  years  passed.  Then  some  of  these  English 
Pilgrims  in  Holland  thought,  "We  have  been  happy 


[  Let  us  leave  Holland  ] 


59 


here.  The  Dutch  have  been  kind  to  us.  But  our  chil- 
dren go  to  Dutch  schools.  They  are  already  speaking 
Dutch  in  our  own  homes.  They  will  forget  how  to 
speak  English.  They  will  become  Dutchmen.  We 
want  them  to  always  be  Englishmen.  Let  us  leave 
Holland  before  it  is  too  late.55 

Then  a  man  who  had  been  thinking  for  days  and 
days  about  what  could  be  done  said,  "The  London 
Company  say  they  will  give  us  land  in  Virginia  if  we 
want  to  go  there  to  live.  Let  us  go.  In  America  we 
shall  be  free.  There  our  children  will  still  be  English 
at  heart.55 

So  they  returned  to  England.  Then  in  two  ships, 
the  Speedwell  and  the  Mayflower,  they  set  out  for 
the  New  World.  Other  unhappy  Englishmen  went 
with  them. 

[  The  "Mayflower"  was  blown  farther  and  farther  north  ] 


6o 

Their  faces  looked  serious  as  they  sailed  away. 
They  were  not  crossing  the  sea  for  gold,  as  the  Span- 
ish had  done.  They  were  not  going  for  furs  or  fish, 
as  the  Dutch  and  French  had  done.  They  were  go- 
ing to  build  homes  and  to  be  free. 

Before  they  were  far  out  at  sea  the  Speedwell  be- 
gan to  leak.  The  sailors  tried  to  pump  the  water  out. 

"We  had  better  go  back  to  England  to  repair  that 
ship/5  said  John  Carver,  the  leader.  "Otherwise  it  will 
fall  apart  in  mid-ocean.5' 

The  Pilgrims  turned  back  and  the  Speedwell  was 
repaired.  But  it  was  a  very  old  ship.  Somehow  the 
water  still  kept  leaking  in. 

"Let's  go  ashore  again  and  all  try  to  get  into  the 
Mayflower"  decided  John  Carver.  "We  will  be 
crowded  but  there's  nothing  else  to  do." 

Twenty  Pilgrims  were  left  behind  in  England  be- 
cause there  wasn't  room  for  them.  Then  the  May- 
flower with  one  hundred  and  two  Pilgrims  sailed 
away  for  Virginia. 

Cold  wind  swept  over  the  ocean.  The  May- 
flower was  blown  farther  and  farther  north.  But  at 
last  the  Pilgrims  saw  land. 

"That  is  not  Virginia,"  said  a  lean,  pale  man.  "It 
looks  like  a  much  colder  country." 


6i 

"You  are  right,"  answered  John  Carver.  "This 
land  is  Cape  Cod  in  New  England.  But  it  is  still 
America,  even  though  it  is  not  Virginia." 

"We  cannot  stay  here,"  exclaimed  a  woman  who 
had  a  baby  crying  in  her  arms.  "It's  too  cold.  It's 
not  quite  Christmas  yet  and  the  whole  winter  is  be- 
fore us." 

The  Pilgrim  leaders  sat  around  a  table  in  a  dark 
room  in  the  little  ship  to  talk  things  over.  "Let  us 
stay,"  they  decided.  "We  can  remain  on  the  ship 
during  the  winter,  and  on  days  when  it  is  not  too 
cold,  we  will  go  ashore  to  put  up  our  log  houses.  We 
will  find  a  good  place  to  build  our  town  and  we  will 
call  it  New  Plymouth,  after  the  English  town  from 
which  we  sailed." 

Then  they  wrote  out  some  rules.  "We  will  gov- 
ern ourselves  by  these  rules  of  our  own,"  they  said. 
And  the  men  all  signed  their  names  at  the  bottom. 

It  was  a  hard  winter.  When  the  Pilgrims  were  on 
board  the  old  ship,  they  were  cold  and  damp  and 
hungry.  When  they  went  ashore,  the  wind  froze  their 
hands  while  they  worked  with  axes  and  hammers 
and  saws. 

"We  had  better  give  up,"  some  of  them  said. 

"Oh,  no!"  exclaimed  Captain  Miles  Standish.  "It 


62 


is  hard,  but  we  came  here  to  be  free.  Let's  stay." 

So  Captain  Miles  Standish  cheered  the  Pilgrims 
the  way  Captain  John  Smith  cheered  the  people  at 
Jamestown.  He  showed  them  how  to  work,  how  to 
hunt,  how  to  live  in  a  country  where  there  were  no 
stores  and  no  other  white  people  to  help  them,  but 
only  woods  and  winds  and  sea. 

It  was  so  hard  a  place 
to  live  that  before  winter 
was  over  half  of  the  Pil- 
grims died.  Their  gov- 
ernor, John  Carver,  died 
too. 

When  spring  came, 
the  Mayflower  set  sail 
for  England,  but  the 
people  stayed. 

"Now,55  said  William 
Bradford,  their  new  governor,  "the  Mayflower  has 
gone.  We  are  all  alone.  The  wide  ocean  is  in  front  of 
us.  Behind  us  are  wild  woods  and  wild  Indians.  Let  us 
hope  the  Indians  won't  shoot  us  the  way  they  shot  so 
many  men  in  Virginia.55 

A  few  days  later,  an  Indian  walked  into  Plymouth. 
He  was  tall  and  he  held  his  head  high.  He  had  four 


[  Miles  Standish  lands  in  Plymouth  ] 


f  An  Indian  walked  into  Plymouth  ] 


64 


eagle  feathers  stuck  in  his 
black  hair  and  he  wore  a 
string  of  bear  teeth  around 
his  neck. 

"What  does  he  want?55 
the  Pilgrims  asked  one  an- 
other. "He  must  have  come 
to  tell  us  that  the  Indians 
are  going  to  fight  us." 
But  the  Indian  smiled. 

"Welcome  to  Englishmen/5  he  said.  "I  am  Samo- 
set.  I  am  sent  by  our  Great  Chief  Massasoit.  He  wants 
to  come  to  your  town  to  smoke  the  pipe  of  peace 
with  your  chiefs!55  . 

The  Pilgrims  were  filled  with  joy.  They  gave 
Samoset  a  shiny  knife  and  a 
ring. 

"This  is  a  good  thing  for 
us,55  said  Governor  Brad- 
ford. "If  Massasoit,  the  In- 
dian Chief,  is  our  friend,  we 
won't  have  all  the  trouble 
the  Jamestown  people  had. 
The  Indians  will  show  us 
how  to  fish  and  hunt,  and 


[  The  wind  froze  their  hands  J 


[  Hunting  in  Plymouth  ] 


65 
how   to   grow   corn   and   vegetables   in    this   bleak 


country." 


So  the  Indians  helped  the  Pilgrims  and  when  har- 
vest came  there  was  plenty  of  food  and  they  all  had 
Thanksgiving  together. 

In  England,  John  Endicott,  the  Puritan,  said, 
"Since  the  Pilgrims  live  happily  in  New  England,  I 
will  go  there  too." 

So  John  Endicott  in  his  black  suit  and  his  large 
black  hat  got  into  a  ship  with  some  other  Puritans  in 
black  suits  and  black  hats  and  sailed  off  to  America. 
To  the  north  of  Plymouth  they  built  Salem  in  the 
Massachusetts  woods. 

"We,  too,  will  go  to  America,"  said  many  other 
Puritans  in  England.  "There  is  no  use  to  try  to  be 
happy  in  England.  We  can't  go  to  the  church  we 
like.  And  business  is  not  so  good  here  anyway." 

These  were  rich  Puritans.  One  of  them  was  John 
Winthrop,  a  lawyer.  "Let's  put  our  money  together 
as  the  merchants  of  the  London  Company  did,"  he 
said.  "That  way  we  can  buy  more  ships  and  tools." 

So  they  put  their  money  together  and  called  them- 
selves the  Massachusetts   Bay   Company,  after  the 


66 


Massachusetts  Indians  of  New  England.  Then  the 
whole  company,  with  a  great  many  other  Puritans, 
sailed  across  the  sea  and  started  Boston,  and  other 
towns  besides. 


One  day  in  New  England  a  man  came  in  from  hoe- 

£faSr:  \« 

man  who  had 
been  out  fish- 
ing in  the 
ocean.  "It  is 
not  easy  to 
grow  things  in 
New  Eng- 
land,5' he  said. 
"It  is  not  so  warm  as  it  is  in  Virginia,  and  the  soil  is 
full  of  stones.  At  harvest  time  there  isn't  much  to 
show  for  all  our  hard  summer's  work." 

"It  would  be  easier  to  fish,"  said  his  friend. 

"Let  us  stop  working  so  hard  at  farming,"  said 
the  governor.  "Out  beyond  the  bay  the  water  is  full 
of  cod.  A  little  farther  north  the  whales  are  spouting. 
We  can  make  money  by  shipping  dried  codfish  to 
Europe.  We  can  sell  cod-liver  oil  for  medicine,  and 


[  The  soil  is  full  of  stones  ] 


67 

whale  oil  for  lamps." 

Then  a  man  who  had  been  a  carpenter  in  England 

said,  "We  have  beautiful  woods  standing  all  about 

us.  We  can  build  our  own  ships  to  carry  the  codfish 

and  the  oil  back  to  Europe." 

"Yes,"  said 
the  man  who 
had  been  hoeing 
corn.  "With  the 
money  we  get 
for  the  cod  and 
whale  oil  we  can 
buy  food.  We 
won't  have  to 
try    to    raise    it 

among  these  stones." 

"Besides,"  added  the  carpenter,  "our  swift  rivers 

will  turn  mill  wheels  for  us.  Saw  mills  will  be  line 

for  cutting  up  lumber  to  build  ships." 

So  in  New  England  the  men  cut  masts  and  spars 

and  ship's  siding  and  soon  New  Englanders  were 

sailing  every  sea. 

Now,  strangely  enough,  after  the  Puritans  had 
been  living  as  they  pleased  for  a  while  in  peace  they 


[  Farther  north  the  whales  are  spouting  ] 


68 

became  so  used  to  having  their  own  way  that  they 
wanted  to  force  everybody  to  do  as  they  themselves 
did.  So  there  were  unhappy  people  among  them,  just 
as  there  had  been  unhappy  people  before  in  Eng- 
land. 

Roger  Williams  was  one.  He  decided  he  could  no 
longer  get  along  with  the  Puritans.  They  were  too 
stern.  "You  have  become  hard  and  unjust  since  you 
left  England,"  he  said.  "You  came  here  to  find  free- 
dom, and  now  that  you  have  found  it  you  would 
take  it  away  from  me  and  from  all  who  do  not 
think  as  you  do.  Besides,  you  are  not  fair  to  the  In- 
dians. You  take  their  land  and  you  do  not  pay  them 
for  it.  You  have  no  right  to  take  their  land." 

The  Puritans  of  Massachusetts  looked  at  each 
other  and  frowned.  "This  man  is  making  trouble  for 
us,"  they  said.  "He  will  turn  the  Indians  against  us. 
Let  us  throw  him  into  prison  and  be  rid  of  him." 


[  A  little  New  England  town  ] 


69 


But  as  they  were  coming  to  arrest  him,  Roger  Wil- 
liams slipped  away  into  the  forest.  He  went  farther 
west  and  lived  for  a  while  among  the  Narragansett 
Indians.  He  was  fair  to  them  and  they  loved  him. 

"Let  me  buy  some  of  your  land,"  he  said  to  them 
one  day.  "I  will  then  bring  some  of  my  friends  here 
to  live  about  me.  We  will  make  this  place  our  home." 

But  the  Indians  replied,  "You  are  our  white 
brother.  We  do  not  sell  land  to  our  brother.  We  give 
it  to  him  for  a  present.  Come,  take  all  the  land  that 
you  need  for  yourself  and  your  friends,  and  live  here. 
We  welcome  you!" 

So  Roger  Williams  brought  together  all  the  people 
who  were  unhappy  among  the  Puritans,  and  he 
founded  the  colony  of  Rhode  Island. 

Now  the  Pilgrims  and  the  Puritans  had  found  a 


[  Let  us  throw  him  in  prison  ] 


70 


place  where  they  could  live  happily  but  the  Catho- 
lics who  were  still  in  England  were  none  too  well 
off.  Among  them  there  was  a  rich  man,  Lord  Balti- 
more. "I  will  do  something  about  this/'  he  said.  He 
went  to  see  the  king.  "You  have  allowed  your 
people  to  settle  lands  in  Virginia  and  New  England," 
he  explained.  "If  you  will  let  me,  I  will  take  as  many 
Catholics  as  I  can  to  America  and  we,  too,  will  settle 
a  piece  of  land.  I  am  rich.  I  can  buy  ships,  tools  and 
food.  You  won't  need  to  help  me  except  to  give  me 
land." 

The  king  thought  this  over.  It  seemed  to  him  a 
good  thing. 


[Roger  Williams  slipped  into  the  forest] 


7i 

"Very  well,"  he  said.  "I  will  do  it.  I  want  my  new 
land  settled,  so  I  will  give  you  a  part  of  it.  Where 
would  you  like  to  go?" 

"I  have  already  tried  to  live  in  Newfoundland," 
answered  Lord  Baltimore,  "but  it  is  too  cold  there. 
There  is  a  fine  strip  of  land  between  Virginia  and 
the  Dutch  settlements  around  New  Amsterdam.  I 
would  like  to  go  there." 

"Then  go,"  said  the  king.  "And  I  will  name  your 
land  Maryland,  for  the  queen." 

But  before  he  could  go  to  America,  Lord  Balti- 
more fell  ill  and  died.  His  second  son,  George  Cal- 
vert, with  other  Catholics,  sailed  to  Maryland  in  two 


[  The  Catholics  going  to  Maryland  in  the  "Dove"  and  the  "Ark"  ] 


72 

ships  called  the  Ark  and  the  Dove.  "This  land  is  even 
better  than  we  had  hoped,"  they  said.  "With  this 
fine  soil  for  farming  and  this  warm,  sunny  weather, 
we  shall  have  good  crops.  And  with  these  broad,  deep 
rivers  we  can  easily  ship  our  crops  down  to  the  sea." 
So  the  Catholics  built  towns  in  Maryland  and 
were  happy  there. 

In  England,  some  time  later,  a  young  man  named 
William  Penn  was  troubled.  His  father  had  been  an 
admiral  in  the  navy  and  the  king  liked  him.  But  Wil- 
liam was  different.  He  was  a  Quaker,  and  that  was 
being  disloyal  to  his  ruler.  For  the  Quakers  had  many 
ideas  that  were  not  the  king's  ideas. 

"And  worst  of  all,"  exclaimed  the  king,  "they  be- 
lieve that  it  is  wrong  to  go  to  war.  That  is  very  seri- 
ous. Very.  For  if  my  people  will  not  fight  for  me, 
where  will  I  be?" 

William  Penn  decided  that  the  best  place  for 
people  who  wanted  to  do  things  their  own  way  was 
America.  He  went  to  talk  to  the  king  about  it. 

"When  my  father  was  living  you  owed  him  some 
money,"  he  said.  "Now  my  father  is  dead.  Couldn't 
you  give  me  a  large  piece  of  land  in  the  New  World 
instead  of  the  money  you  have  sometimes  talked 


73 

of  paying  me?  I  would  like  very  much  to  go  to 
America  to  live.'5 

"A  splendid  idea,"  thought  the  king.  "I  have 
much  more  land  in  America  than  I  have  money  in 
England." 

To  William  Penn  the  king  said,  "I  shall  be  glad 
to  give  you  a  grant  of  land  instead  of  money.  And 
I  will  name  it  Pennsylvania  .  .  .  Penn's  Wood- 
land." 

So  Quakers  went  to  Pennsylvania  to  live.  Penn 
made  friends  with  the  Indians.  They  called  him  their 
brother.  He  invited  people  of  all  beliefs  to  come  and 
live  in  his  colony,  and  people  from  all  nations.  Cath- 
olics came  and  Puritans,  as  well  as  Quakers.  English 


[  Penn  went  to  talk  to  the  king  ] 


74 


came  and  Swedes,  Dutchmen  and  Germans.  To- 
gether they  lived  happily  in  Pennsylvania. 

"Let  us  lay  out  a  beautiful  city  here,"  said  William 
Penn.  "Let  us  make  the  streets  broad,  with  great 
spreading  trees  to  shade  them.  In  London  the  streets 
seem  too  crowded.  We  will  name  our  city  Philadel- 
phia, because  it  will  be  a  place  of  brotherly  love.55 

The  Quakers  cleared  broad  fields  in  Pennsylvania 
and  there  in  a  gentle  climate  they  and  their  friends 
raised  great  crops  of  wheat  which  they  shipped  to 
Europe. 

Now,  in  the  English  colonies  of  America  white 
people  were  sending  to  other  countries  the  tobacco, 
the  wheat,  the  cofn,  from  their  fields;  the  cod-liver 
oil,  the  whale  oil,  the  salted  codfish,  from  the  sea; 
the  lumber  from  their  woods.  And  the  sailing  ships 


[  A  log  cabin  in  Pennsylvania  ] 


75 

they  had  built  themselves  were  carrying  these  things 
away  across  the  ocean.  America  had  become  a  busy 
place. 

Thus,  in  all  the  ships  which,  after  Columbus  found 
the  way,  sailed  west  from  Europe  to  what  is  now  the 
United  States,  there  were  men  who  looked  for  differ- 
ent things.  Spaniards  looked  for  a  way  to  become 
rich  quickly,  so  they  came  for  gold.  Frenchmen  for 
the  same  reason  came  for  furs.  But  in  the  end,  Eng- 
lishmen gained  the  most,  for  they  came  to  build  their 
homes  and  in  this  way  they  kept  the  land. 


^^mmimmm* 


\ 


•Ui»i4J 


