ANNALI 
D’ITALIANISTICA 


ITALY 1991 
THE MODERN AND THE POSTMODERN 


Edited by 


Dino S. Cervigni 


Volume 9, 1991 


AdlI 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
EDITOR: 
Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: 
Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 
Antonio Iliano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Edoardo A. Lébano, Indiana University 
Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 
ADVISORY BOARD: 
Luigi Ballerini, New York University 
Ernesto G. Caserta, Duke University 
Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Domenico De Roberiis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Cecil Grayson, Magdalen College, Oxford 
Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 
Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 
Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 
Paolo Valesio, Yale University 
Aldo Vallone, Universita degli Studi di Napoli 
Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 


Annali d’Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its cultural context, to 
foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of interest to a large number of Italianists. 
Monographic in nature, the journal is receptive to a variety of topics, critical approaches, and 
theoretical perspectives. Each year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and contributions 
are welcome. The joumal is issued in the fall of each year. For all communications concerning 
contributions and subscriptions, address the Editor, Annali d’Italianistica, The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. Subscription rates: Regular $12; 
institution $19; patron $30; donor $50; benefactor $100; foreign subscribers: $21 (surface 
mail). Checks, in U.S. currency, should be made payable to Annali d’I/talianistica. Manuscripts 
should be submitted with a Mcintosh or IBM compatible disk and should be accompanied by a 
stamped, self-addressed envelope. Authors should follow the MLA style for articles in English; 
articles in Italian should conform to the Ad/ style sheet. 


© 1991 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 





144 


Annali d’Italianistica 





Contents, Volume 9, 1991 


Franco Fido and Dino S. Cervigni. Announcing Ad/ 1993: Goldoni 
%* 
Dino S. Cervigni. The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 
Postmodern Debate: Philosophy, Politics, and History 
Peter Carravetta. Postmodern Chronicles 
Francesco Guardiani. Il postmoderno esce dal caos. 
Verso la sintesi con McLuhan e Frye 
Giovanni Mari. Post-moderno e democrazia. 
Nota sulla “filosofia militante” di Gianni Vattimo 
Adelino Zanini. Instrument/Plan. Modern Lemmas, Postmodern Usage 
Giuseppe Patella. Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’eta postmoderna: 
verso un postmodernismo della resistenza 
Alessandro Carrera. Alternative alla storia. 
Un problema per il pensiero italiano contemporaneo 
Renate Holub. Weak Thought and Strong Ethics: 
The “Postmodern” and Feminist Theory in Italy 
Rocco Capozzi. Dalla “letteratura e industria” all’industria del postmoderno 


II. The Modern and the Postmodern: Criticism, Fiction, Poetry 


158 


168 
182 


198 
z12 
230 


242 
254 


272 


Gregory L. Lucente. Modernism and Postmodernism 

in Contemporary Italian Fiction and Philosophy 

Gian Paolo Biasin. Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 

Joseph Francese. The Postmodern Discourses 

of Doctorow’s Billy Bathgate and Tabucchi’s J dialoghi mancati 

JoAnn Cannon. Italian Postmodernism and Calvino’s Lezioni americane 
Angela M. Jeannet. Escape from the Labyrinth: Italo Calvino’s Marcovaldo 
Robert Dombroski and Ross Miller. Postmodern Rhetoric: 
Calvino’s Le citta invisibili and Architecture 

Beverly Allen. Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 

Emilio Speciale. Post-moderno 0 neo-classicismo? Patrizia Valduga 

e il ritorno alle forme metriche nelia recente poesia italiana 

Rebecca West. Before, Beneath, and Around the Text: 

The Genesis and Construction of Some Postmodern Prose Fictions 


III. Postmodernism and Film 


294 Francesco Casetti. Archeologia del postmoderno italiano: 8//2 di Fellini 
304 Claudio Mazzoia. Il Deserto rosso di Antonioni: 

visione anticipatrice del deserto postmoderno 
314 John P. Welle. ““Maciste magretto della letteratura”: 

Postmodernism in Pasolini’s Film Poems 


REVIEWS AND NOTES 


NOTES 

La scrittura femminile. Considerazioni in margine alla lettura di Le stanze ritrovate. 
Antologia di scrittrici venete dal Quattrocento al Novecento, ac. di Antonia Arslan, 
Adriana Chemello, Gilberto Pizzamiglio, Venezia, Eidos, 1991. 

Valeria Finucci (322) 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 
Edited with the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Albert N. Mancini, Valeria Finucci, 
Gustavo Costa, and John P. Welle. 


Renato Rosselli, Dizionario guida alla scelta dei sinonimi e dei contrari (Robert C. Melzi 
330). Mario Santoro, JI libro a stampa. I primordi (Emilio Speciale 333). Rosetta 
D’Angelo, Il poemetto dell’ intelligenza (Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 335). Robert Pogue 
Harrison, The Body of Beatrice (Paul Colilli 337). Robin Kirkpatrick, Dante’ s Inferno: 
Difficulty and Dead Poetry (Regina Psaki 338). L‘idea deforme: interpretazioni esoteriche 
di Dante, ed. Maria Pia Pozzato (Thomas Simpson 340). Konrad Eisenbichler and 
Amilcare A. Iannucci, eds., Petrarch’s Triumphs: Allegory and Spectacle (Stephen 
Murphy 342). Karla Taylor. Chaucer Reads The Divine Comedy (Edward Vasta 344). 
Petrarch’s ‘Secretum’ with Introduction, Notes, and Critical Anthology, trans. Davy A. 
Carozza and H. James Shey (Aldo S. Bernardo 348). Giovanni Cavalcanti, Nuova opera 
(Chronique florentine inédite du XV® siécle) (Luigi Monga 350). Manfredi Piccolomini, 
The Brutus Revival: Parricide and Tyrannicide in the Renaissance (David Marsh 352). 
Matteo Maria Boiardo, Orlando innamorato, trans. Charles Stanley Ross (Michael Murrin 
353). Mario Santoro, Ariosto e il Rinascimento (Deanna Shemek 357). Marianne 
Shapiro, The Poetics of Ariosto (Salvatore Di Maria 359). Robert Klein and Henri 
Zerner, Italian Art, 1500-600: Sources and Documents (Mary Pardo 361). David O. 


Frantz, Festum Voluptatis: A Study of Renaissance Erotica (Bonner Mitchell 362). 
Torquato Tasso, Rinaldo. Edizione critica basata sulla seconda edizione del 1570 con le 
varianti della princeps (1562), ed. Michael Sherberg (Anthony Oldcorn 363). Veronica 
Gambara e la poesia del suo tempo nell'Italia settentrionale (Elissa Weaver 366). 
Giancarlo Maiorino, The Cornucopian Mind and the Baroque Unity of the Arts (John M. 
Headley 369). Studi secenteschi (Olimpia Pelosi 371). Reed Way Dasenbrock, Imitating 
the Italians: Wyatt, Spenser, Synge, Pound, Joyce (Raymond A. Prier 372). Enrico 
Malato, Lo fedele consiglio de la ragione (Albert N. Mancini 375). Albert N. Mancini, J 
“capitoli” letterari di Francesco Bolognetti: tempi e modi della letteratura epica fra 
l’Ariosto e il Tasso (Gustavo Costa 378). Cesare De Leonardis, II finto incanto. Cesare 
De Leonardis. I] re superbo, ed. Olimpia Pelosi (Francesco Guardiani 380). Maria-Luisa 
Minio-Paluello, La “fusta dei matti” (Bonner Mitchell 382). Franco Fido, Le muse 
perdute e ritrovate (Stefania Buccini 385). Jane V. Bertolino, The Many Faces of Pamela 
(Maria Ines Bonatti 387). Alessandro Manzoni, I promessi sposi, ed. Ezio Raimondi and 
Luciano Bottoni (Augustus Pallotta 387). S. Bernard Chandler, Saggi sul romanzo 
italiano dell’ottocento (Darby Tench 390). Mario Aste, Grazia Deledda: Ethnic Novelist 
(Francesco Guardiani 392). Robert S. Dombroski, Antonio Gramsci (Ellen Nerenberg 
394). Anthony Caputi, Pirandello and the Crisis of Modern Consciousness (Giovanni R. 
Bussino 397). Anthony J. Tamburri, Of Saltimbanchi and Incendiari: Aldo Palazzeschi 
and Ayant-Gardism in Italy (Elena Urgnani 400). Eugenio Montale, Poesie (Giancarlo 
Pandini 402). Romano Luperini, L’allegoria del moderno. Saggi sull’allegorismo come 
forma artistica del moderno e come metodo di conoscenza (Gian Paolo Biasin 403). Ezio 
Raimondi, Le poetiche della modernita in Italia (Clavio Ascari 406). Alfredo Bonadeo, 
Mark of the Beast: Death and Degradation in the Literature of the Great War (Clavio 
Ascari 407). Contemporary Women Writers in Italy: A Modern Renaissance (Rosalia 
Colombo Ascari 409). Donna: Women in Italian Culture (Rosalia Colombo Ascari 412). 
Rocco Capozzi, Scrittori, critici e industria culturale dagli anni ’60 ad oggi (Francesco 
Guardiani 413). Armando Balduino, La donna dello schermo (Paolo Cherchi 417). New 
Italian Poets (Massimo Maggiari 419). Giuseppe De Marco, Per una carta poetica del Sud 
(Charles Klopp 421). Bruce Merry, Women in Modern Italian Literature (Robin 
Pickering-Iazzi 423). Seymour Chatman and Guido Fink, eds., Michelangelo Antonioni, 
dir. L’avventura (Angela Dalle Vacche 426). Rita Melillo, Indagine su KA-KANATA. 
Pluralismo filosofico (Giovanni Gullace 428). Peter Carravetta, Prefaces to the Diaphora. 
Rhetorics, Allegory, and the Interpretation of Postmodernity (Renate Holub 431). 


Books Received 


Copyright 1991. Annali d’italianistica. Edited by Dino S. 
Cervigni. 


Goldoni 
(1793-1993) 


and 
Eighteenth-Century Theater 


Annali d’italianistica will devote its 1993 issue to Carlo Goldoni on the 
bicentennial of his death, which occurred in Paris on February 6, 1793. Italy’s 
foremost playwright, Goldoni authored over one-hundred comedies in Italian, 
Venetian dialect, and French, and over fifty librettos, in addition to his memoirs. 
For us today, after two centuries, Goldoni’s work provides a fertile ground, to 
some extent still to be explored, for the study of Venetian society, Italian 
culture, and European philosophy and art. Ad/ 1993 intends to investigate such 
regional, national, and international aspects of Goldoni’s work. 

Goldoni’s best known plays have drawn an international audience and 
equally international casts; critics and historians have been quick to regard 
Goldoni’s theatrical craft and imagination as central to the portrayal and shaping 
of eighteenth-century mores. Furthermore, the Venetian dialect he often used and 
the everyday life he portrayed, although running counter to the lofty standard of 
the Italian literary tradition, today engage our modern interests. In fact, through 
recent productions at the hands of both traditional and avant-garde directors in 
Paris, London, Frankfurt, Warsaw, Moscow, and New York, Goldoni has been 
rediscovered as the inventor of a unique blend of dramatic realism, and his 
theatrical production has been reassessed for its cordial, yet acute insight into 
society, its characters, and its issues. Goldoni’s language, a sparkling expression 
created for the stage, assumes a style of its own, which is neither purely literary 
nor, certainly, common and everyday. Furthermore, Goldoni’s seemingly casual 
theatrical inventions confronted the public with the Enlightenment’s principles 
more effectively than his contemporaries’ didactic work. Ironically, this 
“Venetian” author has become recognized as the most “European” writer in 
eighteenth-century Italy. 

Within such an international perspective and diversified concerns, the editors 
of this issue, Franco‘Fido and Dino S. Cervigni, welcome contributions that 
explore Goldoni’s Venetian, Italian, and European context. The editors further 
hope that, by fostering this great European playwright’s understanding and 
appreciation, Ad/ 1993 will promote the translation of a larger number of 
Goldoni’s comedies, thus further encouraging directors and actors to bring them 
on the American stage. 


Dino S. Cervigni 


The Modern and the Postmodern: 
An Introduction 





With “Italy 1991: The Modern and the Postmodern,” Annali a’ italianistica seeks 
to probe into Italy’s contemporary moment more directly than in any of its 
previous eight issues. This issue’s focus on the present, a fluid point of time, 
evolving, more challenging, and hence not immediately comprehensible to those 
who experience it, lies at the root of some of the difficulties inherent in the topic 
itself.! In addition to these, scholars are confronted by difficulties originating 
directly from the study of the postmodern itself. They range from making some 
sense out of the ongoing debate about the postmodern and formulating an 
acceptable concept of it to defining its relation to the modem, its historical 
boundaries, its philosophical and political basis, and — not at all least for 
literary critics — its effectiveness in textual analysis. 

An initial, not at all unessential, issue concerns terminology. As Biasin 
points out in this volume, nowadays everybody in Italy speaks of 
postmodernism; and yet, before this discussion began, nobody ever spoke of 
modernism. In fact, whereas in the Anglo-Saxon world postmodernism finds in 
the New Criticism and in Modernism an easily identifiable point of reference and 
contrast,” until recently “modernism” has not been a viable term in the Italian 
critical literature.? In Italian language, ““modernismo,” the immediate cognate 
with the English term, has a specific historico-religious meaning (as Biasin and 
Carravetta remind us) and thus cannot be employed in our present debate. In the 


1 Debating this volume’s same issues, Connor postulates that “knowledge is always doomed to 
arrive too late on the scene of experience” (3) and points out that this “gap between experience 
and knowledge begins, or at least reaches a point of important focus, in some of the texts of the 
cultural and philosophical movement that is called modernism” (3-4). 

2 Scholars, in fact, point out that postmodemism has contributed toward the clarification of 
modemism, as Connor writes: “the urge to identify and celebrate the category of the postmodern 
has been so strong as to produce by back-formation a collective agreement about what 
modernism was, in order to have something to react against” (105). 

3 One of the most recent studies of Italian modemism is Raimondi’s Le poetiche della modernita 
in Italia, which C. Ascari reviews in this issue. 

4 “Modernismo . . . tendenza al rinnovamento di ideologie, metodi, sistemi e sim. per adeguarli 
al mondo moderno. . . . movimento religioso condannato da Pio X, perché tendeva ad accordare 
la tradizione cattolica con le correnti filosofiche e sociali del mondo moderno. . . . prima 
dell’apparizione del grave documento pontificio, la parola Modernismo venne coniata da 

Giuseppe Sacchetti, direttore dell’“Unita cattolica”, in polemica con Romolo Murri. Questi 
faceva uso e abuso, parlando a nome dei giovani della democrazia cristiana della modernita e 


6 Dino S. Cervigni 


meantime, two other words have become available, “il moderno” and “la 
modernita,” and hence “il postmoderno” and “la postmodemita.”> To be sure, the 
issue concerning terminology is bound to become more complex, for in the 
English-speaking world one also distinguishes between postmodernism and 
postmodernity. For Schulte-Sasse, in fact, the terms of modernity and 
postmodernity refer to the “socio-historical period,” while modernism and 
postmodernism designate the “cultural precipitates of this socio-historical period” 
(quoted in this volume by Welle, note 2).° For the benefit of all of us — 
initiates and uninitiates alike — Carravetta (as a first step toward a philosophico- 
historical discussion) reminds us of the etymology of the term, from the Latin 
modus (norm and rule) to modo (the present time) and hence modernus (coined 
after hodie-hodiernus). 

This volume’s inherent difficulty, however, derives most clearly from the 
evolving debate in which postmodernism is involved, primarily (although every 
day less and less exclusively) in the English-speaking world to the extent that, as 
Carravetta suggests, “Postmodernism is by and large an (Anglo-)American 
phenomenon” (Prefaces 268n11). Quite simply and succinctly, while the term 
postmodernism was used in the 1950s and 1960s by certain writers (Connor 6), 
the concept began to become acceptable in the mid-1970s when several 
disciplines became involved in the debate and influenced each other through 
discussing it. More recently, as Connor writes, “With the appearance of Jean- 
Francois Lyotard’s La Condition postmoderne in 1979, and its translation into 
English in 1984, these different disciplinary diagnoses received an 
interdisciplinary confirmation, and there no longer seemed room for disagreement 
that postmodernism and postmodemity had come to stay” (6).” 


Sacchetti incomincid a dare addosso al modernismo nel quale vedeva un successo della 
modernitd. La polemica si svolgeva all’alba del secolo XX” (Cortelazzo and Zolli, “moderno”). 
The same historico-religious meaning is one of the accepted meanings of “modemism” 
according to The Compact Edition of the Oxford English Dictionary (“Supplement”). This 
edition, dated 1971, does not record the term “postmodemism.” 

5 Most Italian dictionaries do not record the latter two entries, with the exception of Grande 
dizionario della lingua italiana, which lists: “postmodemismo,” “post-modemista,” 
“postmodemita,” and “postmodermo.” According to Grande dizionario della lingua italiana, 
English is the recognized language of derivation of all these terms; their definitions privilege 
architecture and philosophy; the authors quoted in these entries are: F. Montuori, G. Vattimo, A. 
Branzi, M. Ferraris, P. Portoghesi, B. Zevi, and S. Saviane. The latter two employ the term 
“postmodemo” ironically. 

6 See also Connor: “It is necessary to distinguish between two separate areas of postmodem 
theory. On the one hand, there is the compendium of narratives about the emergence of 
postmodermism in world culture. . . . associated with this side of the postmodern debate . . . is a 
different account, of the emergence of new forms of social, political and economic arrangement. 
These two accounts, one of the emergence of postmodemism out of modemism, the other of the 
emergence of postmodemity out of modemity, run on adjoining tracks . . .” (27). 

T Not only has postmodemism (just as modemism) come to stay; both concepts have also 
created a plethora of studies. The scanning of the MLA Intemational Bibliography CD ROM, 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 7 


Precisely within this context of open, ongoing, and often conflicting debate, 
I proposed this topic — “Italy 1991: The Modern and the Postmodern” — in the 
1989 volume of Ad/ and have solicited and accepted essays. Thus, the twenty 
articles featured here focus on the proposed topic from various perspectives and 
disciplines in order to present the debate on the modern and postmodern in 
contemporary Italy in as diversified and as complete a manner as possible. 


I. The Postmodern Debate: Philosophy, Politics, and History 


Begun initially within the realm of architecture (Portoghesi; Connor 65-102), 
the debate on the postmodern moved quickly to philosophy, politics, and also 
history. In some areas more so than in others, the debate has become intense, 
and postmodernists express a sense of urgency in presenting their (often 
conflicting) views, in justifying postmodernism both historically and 
philosophically, and in showing to which extent postmodernism is by its own 
nature an all-encompassing concept. 

Peter Carravetta’s essay, “Postmodern Chronicles,” is thus exemplary in 
many respects. In fact, its first subsection (“1. Pretext”) offers the reader a 
passionate and well-argued defense of the “weak thought” presented by Gianni 
Vattimo — Italy’s foremost proponent of postmodernism? — as well as a 
forceful attack upon Romano Luperini’s ongoing critique of postmodernism in 
general and of the postmodernism d /a Vattimo in particular. Then, in the essay’s 
two subsequent sections (2. Prodromes”; “3. Early Protagonists”), Carravetta 
traces the history of the debate on postmodernism, primarily in Italy, in order to 
focus on postmodernism’s maior issues (“4. Reactions of the Moderns”; “5. 
Other Discussions”; “6. By Way of Introducing the Next Instalment . . .”). 
Carravetta explores Vattimo’s “weak thought” — with which he assumes the 
reader to be familiar —° in all its manifold historical and philosophical 
connections with such philosophers as Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Lyotard, 





1981-1991, produces about 1600 items for modemism and modemity and about 800 items for 
postmodernism. 

8 Carravetta has almost single-handedly spearheaded the debate on Vattimo’s “weak thought” in 
North America through the joumal he has founded and edits, Differentia, his recent Prefaces to 

the Diaphora (reviewed by Holub in this issue), and countless essays. He has just completed the 
translation of /! pensiero debole, to be published in 1992 by the Johns Hopkins UP. 

9 In Annali, Viano has critically described Vattimo’s and Rovatti’s anthology, J] pensiero 

debole, which is one of the most fundamental presentations of “weak thought.” For Viano, 
Vattimo and Rovatti attack theory “intesa come potere, capacita di controllo, implicazione, 
totalizzazione” (Jl pensiero debole 8); by contrast, “weak thought” should leam how to 

“articolarsi nella mezza luce” (9), giving up the hope of encountering original being but 
nevertheless hoping to come across the “essere come traccia, ricordo, un essere consumato e 
indebolito”; in order to do so, reason must reevaluate certain forms of irrationality and assume a 
sort of “pietas” toward the past (11; qtd. by Viano 407). 


8 Dino S. Cervigni 


according to whom all theories — variously called master narratives, 
metanarratives, “great legitimizing ‘myths’ or narrative archetypes” (Jameson, 
“Foreword” IX)!® — ought now to be considered extinct.!! 

Whereas Carravetta focuses on the postmodern following a philosophical 
line which goes from Heidegger to Lyotard and Vattimo, in his essay “Tl 
postmoderno esce dal caos” Francesco Guardiani seeks to offer a synthesis of the 
current debate on postmodernism from both a philosophical and literary 
perspective. He privileges two Canadian thinkers: McLuhan and Frye. After 
tracing the development in the Anglo-Saxon world from New Criticism to 
structuralism, poststructuralism, and deconstruction, Guardiani analyzes the work 
of McLuhan and Frye in order to show the ways in which their work points 
toward, and can be viewed as, a synthesis of the postmodern. Guardiani knows 
full well that critics have an easier task in tracing literary criticism’s 
development in the twentieth-century Anglo-Saxon world, where New Criticism 
and Modernism embrace most of the first half of this century, than their Italian 
counterparts concerning Italy. For the Italian context, in fact, Guardiani rightly 
mentions Croce (1866-1952), whose overwhelming personality dominated 
almost completely Italy’s poetic theory throughout most of the twentieth 
century until his death.!2 For Guardiani, McLuhan’s and Frye’s parallel and 
totalizing critical theory constitutes Canada’s highest contribution to 
contemporary culture, of which the two scholars — Guardiani argues — offer a 
synthesis that brings together philosophy and philology, the history of the ideas 
and rhetoric, despite the fact that they never employ the term postmodernism. 
For McLuhan in The Gutenberg Galaxy (1962) — Guardiani continues — 


10 tn his “Foreword” to Lyotard’s The Postmodern Condition, Jameson identifies “the two great 
myths disengaged by Lyotard”: “that of the liberation of humanity and that of the speculative 
unity of knowledge (qua philosophical system). . . . The first — political, militant, activist — 
is of course the tradition of the French eighteenth century and the French Revolution, a tradition 
for which philosophy is already politics and in which Lyotard must himself clearly be ranged. 
The second is of course the Germanic and Hegelian tradition — a contemplative one, organized 
around the value of totality rather than that of commitment, and a tradition to which Lyotard’s 
philosophical adversary, Habermas, still — however distantly — remains affiliated” 
(“Foreword” IX). 

1 Carravetta’s essay — the first in a series of articles intended to “chronicle” postmodemism 
— is thus closely linked with his recent book-length study of postmodemnity: Prefaces to the 
Diaphora: Rhetorics, Allegory, and the Interpretation of Postmodernity. The book is divided 
into three parts, focusing respectively on the modem in decline, on the issues and the epoch 
leading directly to the postmodem, and finall:7 on the postmodern itself. The book ends with a 
conclusion, notes, a vast bibliography, and an index of names and of terms and subjects. See in 
this issue Holub’s review of the book. 

12 Th 1989 and 1990, Ad/ has published three reviews by Gullace of studies by Caserta, Moss, 

and Paolozzi dealing exclusively or in part with Croce. It is worth pointing out what Raimondi 
notes in Le poetiche della modernita in Italia; namely, that Croce himself(Di un carattere della 

pit recente letteratura italiana) saw the origin of twentieth-century poetics in the changes which 
occurred in the first half of the nineteenth century (Raimondi 11, qtd. by Ascari). 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 9 


modernity is the epoch which goes from the invention of the press to the first 
half of the last century. Postmodernity, born at that time with the invention of 
the electric telegraph, has reached its highest phase in our contemporary epoch.!4 
McLuhan’s justification of this twofold periodization of six centuries of history 
— Guardiani explains — resides in his conception of the medium which 
characterizes society’s development. In brief, while modernity was based on a 
mechanic medium, which privileges sight, postmodernity is characterized by 
electric and electronic ways of communication, which for McLuhan are no longer 
machines but all-embracing “anti-machines” because they affect all human 
perceptions and experiences. Scholars are fully aware of the far-reaching 
implications of chronological boundaries in all historical investigations.!4 
Insofar as McLuhan’s notion of the medium resides at the origin of modernity 
and postmodernity, Guardiani goes to great lengths to clarify the principles 
underlying it. Accordingly, he also argues that, contrary to Vattimo 
(Postmoderno: una societd trasparente?), who fails to clarify the cause of 
modernity, McLuhan posits such a cause in the mechanic nature of its mass 
media. Therefore, although, in Guardiani’s view, Vattimo agrees with McLuhan 
in placing the beginning of modernity in the fifteentht century, by leaving its 
essential cause unspecified Vattimo leaves ambiguous his conception of 
postmodernity.!> After McLuhan, Guardiani goes on to discuss Frye, 


13 Defining chronological boundaries constitutes a major issue for all periods and hence also 
for postmodernism. Whereas for McLuhan (according to Guardiani) postmodemism began during 
the first half of the last century and for Toynbee (Carravetta writes) “the Modem ends around 
1895” (Prefaces 146), the notion of the postmodem is usually applied to the time which goes 
from the sixties to the present. 

14 4, Headley reminds us in analyzing “the end of the Renaissance” (an epoch which would fall 
within the first phase of McLuhan’s concept of modernity): “Do historical periods, or better yet 
historical movements, have an end, a definitive termination? . . . Obviously, historical 
movements do not end as do railroad tracks or a football game. For as a historical agent the 
movement itself has throughout been undergoing transmutation or transformation. . . 
Furthermore, it appears that historians have spent more time reflecting on the origins than 
defining the ends of movements” (157). 

15 A criticism of Vattimo’s position on postmodemity comes from another scholar, Romano 
Luperini, whose work is quoted by Guardiani and other contributors (Lucente; Capozzi), in 
addition to Carravetta. Luperini is unwilling to view modemity separately from postmodemity: 
“Ebbene, quest’ultima fase [of modernity], segnata dalla esasperazione e dalla concentrazione 
estrema degli aspetti piii qualificanti del moderno e dalle conseguenze da essi indotte (e 
segnatamente da un nuovo modo di vivere il rapporto fra spazio e tempo), pud anche essere 
definita postmoderno, ma cid non significa affatto che le forme critiche di pensiero elaborate 
dalla modernité siano inadeguate alla comprensione del presente” (4-5). Furthermore, in 
agreement with McLuhan and Vattimo, although for different reasons, Luperini sees an 
historical shift (“svolta epocale”) take place during the first decades of the last century, and of 
such a shift he emphasizes the elements of continuity characterizing “capitalist industry”: 
“fetishistic goods,” “usage” supplanted by “exchange,” “the natural world” subordinated to 
production, market, and technology (4). Immediately afterward, Luperini makes abundantly clear 
his opposition to the concept of postmodernism, while emphasizing and proposing a sort of 


10 Dino S. Cervigni 


emphasizing an element connecting the two: their shared understanding of the 
Dantean polisemous: Accordingly, for Guardiani Frye’s theory of literature is 
based on the concept of polysemy applied to symbols, metaphors, and myths: 
“Simbolo, metafora e mito sono i cardini del pensiero critico di Frye: il simbolo 
é la parola letteraria, la metafora é lo strumento di associazione dei simboli, il 
mito é l’espressione verbale compiuta della creativita umana espressa con una 
storia formata da simboli legati da metafore.” In Frye’s understanding of myth 
Guardiani sees the link connecting both Frye and McLuhan within a postmodern 
context: “il mito va soprattutto riconosciuto come risposta dell’ immaginazione 
alle esigenze fondamentali dell’uomo, che sono esigenze di sopravvivenza e di 
riaffermazione della propria identita.” Hence derives Frye’s “postmodern choice,” 
which coincides with McLuhan’s, for whom “l’ideologia non é altro che una 
razionalizzazione di esperienze passate da mettere a frutto nel futuro.” Obviously, 
Frye’s interest in a theory of literature makes his writings on poetry more 
directly pertinent to our concerns as literary critics. Thus, Guardiani’s quotation 
from Freye’s Myth and Metaphor (“Poets are the children of concern... . Yet 
there has always been a sense of something else that eludes this kind of 
communication” 21) involves poets as well as critics both intellectually and 
morally. In conclusion — Guardiani writes — what unites McLuhan and Frye is 
their lesson on “il principio di proprieta”: what is proper of human beings in 
their thought and conduct (Words with Power 303-4). 

This volume’s first two essays amply illustrate postmodernism’s close 
relation to philosophy, history, and literary criticism. Giovanni Mari’s essay 
continues Carravetta’s and Guardiani’s discussion of Vattimo from the specific 
perspective of “filosofia militante,” which in Mari’s view has now assumed the 
task, once entrusted to metaphysics, to ground politics. Mari’s essay moves 
along a line which at tines takes him close to Vattimo, although at other times 
it distances him from the proponent of “weak thought.” For Vattimo, modernity, 
violence, and metaphysics belong together. Mari objects to each element of this 
triad: violence is an effect of metaphysics only under certain conditions, 
democracy does not rest on persuasive arguments only, and modernity cannot be 


manifesto for his view of modemity: “storicita, razionalita critica, natura pragmatica e dialettica 
del linguaggio, visione allegorica e altre categorie o forme del pensiero e dell’arte che hanno 
contraddistinto un filone antidogmatico e antimetafisico della modemita rappresentano, almeno 
per chi scrive, dei valori attuali per cui battersi contro la tendenza all’accettazione apologetica 
del presente — ora nichilistica ora misticheggiante — che caratterizza l’ideologia del 
postmodermo” (5). Unquestionably, Luperini urges readers to take a stand vis-a-vis the 
categories he views as characteristic of modemity (“storicita, razionalita critica, natura 
pragmatica e dialettica del linguaggio, visione allegorica . . . un filone antidogmatico”), his 
willingness to “battersi” (literally or intellectually?) against postmodemism, and his 
condemnation of metaphysics and/or ideology. Finally, Luperini (5) is vehement in attacking 
what he calls the “intrinseco carattere apologetico” of the “ideologia postmodema” and its 
utopic version as expounded in Vattimo’s La societd trasparente. 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 11 


equated to intolerance. Consequently, Mari argues that Vattimo’s version of 
postmodernism cannot claim to be the filosofia militante entrusted with the task 
of waging war against the intolerance and violence supposedly fomented by 
metaphysics. Mari, however, does see in Vattimo’s “weak thought” 
“un” indubbia forza seducente.” In fact, Mari too argues against metaphysics: “Il 
‘meccanismo’ del fondamento o il richiamo alla verita, infatti, tendono a porre 
un termine alla discussione e a togliere legittimita al carattere autoreferenziale del 
sistema dei linguaggi.” And yet, I cannot but wonder to what extent metaphysics 
has put an end to any debate, for it would in fact seem that discussion, although 
time and again opposed, has always continued throughout history. At the same 
time, however, I join Mari in objecting to Vattimo, for whom to be 
“democratici in politica” one must be “postmetafisici in filosofia” and 
“sostenitori di un’ ‘ontologia debole.’” To hold such views may be tantamount to 
raising one’s ““weak thought” to the same level of absolute metaphysics. At this 
juncture, Mari confronts Vattimo with an argument ad hominem; namely, 
Heidegger’s pro-Nazi stand: an argument — I would like to add — which the 
proponents of Heideggerian philosophy are as eager to face as Marxists are to 
theorize over the dissolution of the Soviet empire in its attempt to establish or 
reestablish democracy. In his rationalized ambivalence toward Vattimo, what 
concerns Mari the most, however, is Vattimo’s linkage of politics with 
philosophy, with the possible outcome — Mari argues — for the “potere 
politico di rinvenire in una filosofia un alleato da allevare e preservare contro 
tutte le altre filosofie, nonché un discorso universalistico in cui ammantare la 
propria pratica e gli interessi che essa privilegia.” Mari’s final statement, 
therefore, is that politics “per propria natura tende a forme di dominio 
incontrastato sull’attualita.” While the observation of past and present politics 
would seem to confirm Mari’s statement, at the same time, however, I wonder 
about the ethical and philosophical implications of such a view, which seems to 
verge closely on Machiavelli’s political thought. 

Related to Mari’s discussion of the relation between politics and philosophy 
is Adelino Zanini’s essay on “Instrument/Plan: Modern Lemmas, Postmodern 
Usage.” According to my understanding and within the context of the 
philosophical speculations of J. Dewey, C. S. Peirce, and G. H. Mead, an 
instrument is whatever can produce a practical effect. Hence derives the collapse 
of the traditional distinction between theoretical and practical activities. Zanini 
begins with a premise: an instrument “receives social approval based on specific 
alternatives which it may or may not satisfy.” The question then is to what 
extent this premise is verifiable “in a greatly dilated space which is occupied by 
the ‘community of instruments’ on the present-day scene.” Zanini points out the 
tragic nature of the instrument, for it can bring about either a convivial society 
or an instrumental one: the former is “that social organization where the 
‘community of instruments’ is subservient to the aims of the person, while the 
latter “(presupposes submission to totalizing institutions.” Relying on I. Illich’s 


12 Dino S. Cervigni 


research, Zanini proposes that “the irreducible opposition between instrumental 
society and convivial, transparent, post-industrial reconversion of the 
instrument” is “found in postmodern knowledge.” Zanini’s analysis points to a 
further issue which derives from the relation between the instrumental society 
and political planning. Vis-a-vis postmodernism’s critique of every concept 
dealing with planning, Zanini emphasizes “the breach between political planning 
and unplannable ethic.” Hence his final words’ subdued tone: “In some ways, 
therefore, even according to the logic of a controlled postmodern vocation, the 
essence of ‘modern things’ may remain obscure.” 

Giuseppe Patella further develops Mari’s and Zanini’s discussion within a 
vastly speculative context. In his “Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’eta 
postmoderna,” Patella writes that “in our postmodern condition” modernity’s 
instruments and its modalities — “ragione soggettocentrica e universale del 
discorso filosofico” — should no longer govern society to the extent that they 
assume an objectionable control over reality through yesterday’s idealism or 
today’s technocracy, nihilism, authoritarianism, or demagoguery. For Patella, 
modernity’s connection of culture and society in universal and absolutistic terms 
has failed. As a more adequate link between culture and society, he proposes 
“postmodernismo della resistenza.” Insofar as the present situation is 
characterized by “una cultura della decorazione,” “una politica della 
conservazione,” and “una societa del conformismo,” Patella’s “postmodernismo 
della resistenza” is concerned with “‘il carattere effettuale del sapere e della cultura, 
facendo differenza tra conservazione e trapasso, debolezza e forza, immobilismo e 
trasformazione, tatticismo ed effettualita.” Therefore, vis-a-vis some of 
postmodernism’s interpretations, which Patella calls “nichilistiche e 
banalizzanti,” this new cultural perspective underscores knowledge’s maieutic 
function toward reality and history.!® 

The following essay by Alessandro Carrera is in accord with all the other 
essays in this section for its focus on postmodernism’s interest in philosophy 
and history as much as it is in disaccord with them in some of its final 
conclusions. Postmodernism — Carrera reminds us — is concerned with history: 
not so much with history’s two traditional conceptions, the linear and the 
cyclical one, but rather with what has been called “the end of history.” Through 
this conception of history, posmodernism undoubtedly reacts to modernism, 
which, in combating the passage of time which seemingly threatens artistic 
achievement, denies time to guarantee artistic permanency (Connor 118). By 
contrast, postmodern literature breaks this atemporal vision of time by 
underscoring time’s contingency and becoming. Carrera joins neither the 
modernists nor the postmodernists. For him, to conclude that history and 
metaphysics have reached an end entails “una conclusione storicistica.” Nor can 


16 Tt would like to acknowledge the cooperation of Peter Carravetta, who solicited these 
contributions by Giuseppe Mari, Adelino Zanini, and Giuseppe Patella. 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 13 


history, metaphysics, or technology be “oltrepassate” just because a 
community’s intellectual spokespersons have so resolved. Vattimo himself — 
Carrera points out — argues that the notion of overcoming history and 
metaphysics reached a moment of crisis in Nietzsche, who has in fact revealed 
this notion’s relation to the idea of progress which the philosophy of 
“overcoming” criticizes. Thus Carrera argues that one can “speculare sulla fine 
della storia solo nel momento in cui non si puo pit teorizzare la sua fine reale” 
(Carrera’s italics). Hence he suggests that the cyclical and linear conceptions of 
time intersect in our present time, and that, in fact, according to Christian 
thought, history has ended while individual time is still in becoming. For 
according to Pauline conception (Gal. 4:4; 1 Eph 10; etc.), Christ marks the 
“plenitudo temporis,” the beginning and the end of time: “con l’evento di Cristo 
diviene possibile il fine (e la fine) della storia, nella misura in cui, a partire da 
quell’evento, tutte le possibilita storiche sono gia dispiegate.” The consequence 
is that the end of history is not an historical event but history’s fulfillment. In 
discussing Guzzi’s postphilosophical, Christian option, Carrera remains on 
philosophical grounds. He observes, nonetheless, that repositioning religion 
within the framework of the current debate allows the forgotten category of 
possibility (i.e., what is still possible, always possible) to reenter the realm of 
postmodern thinking, from which such a category had been excluded because of 
its “suspected” anti-nihilistic potentiality. 

In contrast with Carrera, who views the end of history as history’s 
fulfillment and who repositions religion (and the category of possibility) within 
the postmodern debate, Renate Holub evokes history as a history of the 
transcultural subject. In her article “Weak Thought and Strong Ethics: The 
‘Postmodern’ and Feminist Theory in Italy,” Holub focuses on “weak thought” 
as well as on the philosophical work of Diotima (the community of women 
philosophers in Verona) as manifestations of a contemporary critical spirit in 
Italy which she only cautiously calls “postmodern.” Against the background of 
Lyotard’s model of the “postmodern” and Harvey's theses worked out in his The 
Condition of Postmodernity, Holub reflects on the position of contemporary 
Italian critical theory in the context of the rise of transculturalism. Thus, with an 
attentive eye to those non-Italian developments in the present international and 
cultural sphere that increasingly move towards hegemonic forms of 
transnationalizations and transculturalisms, Holub seeks to develop the minimal 
contours of a thesis which would accord contemporary Italian theory (such as 
“pensiero debole” and the feminist theory of Diotima) potentially subversive 
powers precisely because of its operations from the margins of transcultural 
politics. 

Concerned as it is with literary as well as sociopolitical and mass-medial 
issues, Rocco Capozzi’s essay, “Dalla ‘letteratura e industria’ all’industria del 
postmoderno,” links the first with the second section of this volume. Capozzi 
enters into the debate on the modern and postmodern through discussing, among 


14 Dino S. Cervigni 


others, Fortini, Luperini, and Vattimo, Fiedler, Jameson, and Hutcheon. He 
analyzes the literary and sociopolitical implications of the so-called “‘letteratura e 
industria” production which took place in Italy between 1957 and 1965. He 
furthermore indicates the ways in which literature’s implications with industry in 
the fifties and sixties display some of the concepts characteristic of a postmodern 
so concerned with our contemporary industrialized world’s effects on society. 
Capozzi finally underscores the critic’s ethical duty to “deconstruct” from within 
postmodern industrial production in order to unmask it and attain a more 
appropriate understanding. 

No matter how complex and controversial the philosophical, historical, and 
sociopolitical debate on the modern and postmodern is, one cannot but welcome 
its orientation toward a more enhanced concern with ethical and social issues. 
Undoubtedly, determining what these social and ethical issues are may prove as 
complex as mapping out our pragmatic and specific approach to them. 


II. The Modern and the Postmodern: Criticism, Fiction, Poetry 


Although everyone nowadays is willing to admit philosophy's function in the 
analysis of postmodernism, it would seem that no one is certain to which extent 
a postmodern perspective can be effective in the evaluation of literary texts. This 
issue is further complicated by additional characteristics peculiar to the Italian 
critical scene: the undefined contours of modernity’s literature and the Italian 
literary critics’ hesitation or outright opposition to such critical trends as 
deconstruction and poststructuralism, which are often identified with 
postmodernism (Selden 70-74; Callinicos 2-3; 4-7; etc.). And yet, literary critics 
of contemporary Italian literature, especially those who operate in North 
America, cannot avoid asking themselves — as Gregory L. Lucente does in this 
section’s first essay — fundamental questions about the nature of the differences 
distinguishing the literature of modernism from that of postmodernism, about 
aesthetic concerns, and about ethical and sociopolitical issues. Thus the nine 
authors whose essays constitute this section analyze specific literary texts as 
they also bear in mind a twofold question: What is postmodernism, and to what 
extent is postmodernism effective in literary analysis? 

In “Modernism and Postmodernism in Contemporary Fiction and 
Philosophy,” Lucente moves from a series of considerations on modernism and 
postmodernism to a brief analysis of exemplary postmodern texts. He identifies 
four categories — authority, closure, alienation, and representation — which 
characterize modern and postmodern texts differently.!7 Modern literature is 


17 Tp this issue, Biasin also contrasts the major characteristics of modem and postmodem 
literatures. Scholars interested in schematizations aimed at distinguishing the modem from the 
postmodem should consult Carravetta’s Prefaces, where the author presents his own or 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 15 


typified by irony vis-a-vis narrative voice, narrative closure, existential 
uncertainty, and faith in language’s representational capacities. By contrast, 
postmodern literature displays a fragmented narrative, open-endedness, “the 
communal immersion in the jouissance,” and finally ‘‘a sort of mass-cultural 
“games without end.’” Although Lucente exhibits an ambivalence toward some 
alleged traits of postmodernism, he nevertheless holds fast to others: the notion 
of process and cultural immersion, the destruction of hierarchies and the culture 
of the elite, the internationalization of culture, and “the end of a culture of' 
ordered self-reflection and so the beginning of a rapidly shifting, nonlinear 
culture of pure experience unhindered by rationality and doubt.” In arguing these 
notions, Lucente joins the debate for or against Terry Eagleton, Fredric Jameson, 
Gianni Vattimo, Jiirgen Habermas, and others. Most strikingly, Lucente states 
that he is “against theorizing for its own sake,” a process which he sees “move 
only in circular fashion as a protective justification for its own continuing 
discourse” and is characteristic of “so much of the writing on postmodernism. . . 
.” Finally, shifting from theoretical to analytical criticism, Lucente proceeds to 
show in which ways some of the concepts he has previously proposed become 
effective in some novels of Paolo Volponi and Maria Corti, especially focusing 
on “the relation between, or, more precisely, the shift from, the functions of 
symbol to those of allegory. . . .” 

Gian Paolo Biasin writes primarily as a literary critic, although many of the 
theoretical and philosophical ideas debated in the previous pages are clearly 
present in his essay. His focus is the topos of the journey in Italian fiction from 
the fifties to the eighties. To exemplify the functions of the journey in 
modernity’s and postmodernity’s literature, Biasin chooses Pavese’s La luna e i 
falé and Tabucchi’s Notturno indiano, respectively. For Biasin, Pavese’s novel 
proposes a journey “geografico ed esteriore almeno altrettanto quanto esso é 
spirituale ed interiore” and in fact entails “‘sia una visione ciclica della vita che 
una concezione lineare del destino.” Anguilla’s journey is both a katabasis and a 
return, the discovery of history and the revelation of archetypes and myths (the 
“legitimizing narratives”). In brief, La luna e i falé represents for Biasin an 
indispensable point of reference for modernity in Italy, and its year of publication 
(1950) marks a chronological high point beyond which no writer of Pavese’s 
generation could have foreseen the events which were to take place. In marked 
contrast with the modernity of La luna e i fald, Biasin argues that Tabucchi’s 
Notturno indiano is a paradigm of postmodernity. It is an outward journey (not a 
return), which leads to the loss of the self (not to the discovery of the self-others 
relationship); it is a remake and a pastiche written in a communicative style, 
rather than a high literary autobiography; its mode is parody rather than elegy; 
its materials are stereotypes, not archetypes; it is not just a novel but a self- 
reflexive metanovel. Such detailed analyses and critical comparisons provide 





introduces other scholars’ schemata (150; 154-55; 159-60). 


16 Dino S. Cervigni 


Biasin with a convincing case for a distinction between modernity and 
postmodernity, a distinction which is solidly based on the primary evidence of 
literary texts and can serve as a model for further inquiries. 

Like Biasin, Joseph Francese also deals with Tabucchi. Francese’s 
comparative analysis takes him from Doctorow’s Billy Bathgate to Tabucchi’s I 
dialoghi mancati, thus enabling him to conduct a detailed literary analysis of 
those two works within a specific notion of postmodernism. Although Francese 
relies on Linda Hutcheon’s designation of postmodem narrative as metafictional 
and historical, he nevertheless objects to Hutcheon’s conflation of the two 
notions of historiography and history, “social practice and/or reproduction.” He 
argues that postmodernism’s attempt to return “the text to the world” takes place 
“through an awareness within the text that all textualizations are subjective 
representations of social practices transcoded into the realm of the real.” Within 
this context, Francese analyzes Tabucchi’s and Doctorow’s works to show the 
ways in which they “cast doubt” on “the true nature of a unified, though 
complex, underlying reality” (in Harvey’s words) which they represent. 
Ultimately, Francese argues, the world “to which the postmodern narratives of 
Tabucchi and Doctorow return . . . determines and is determined by individual 
agents within a social context.” 

Just as in this volume’s first section Renate Holub laments a European and 
American lack of interest in Italian contemporary philosophical thought, one 
could likewise deplore outside Italy the dearth of critical studies on 
contemporary Italian literature. The one exception is of course Italo Calvino.!® 
In fact, in virtually all comparative and interdisciplinary studies of the 
postmodern (Hutcheon; Barth; Connor; de Lauretis; etc.) Calvino constitutes a 
constant point of reference for the debate on the postmodern both in Italy and in 
the West. No one should be surprised, therefore, to find out that Calvino is the 
focus of three essays, which study Calvino’s postmodernism from the 
perspective of Lezioni americane (Cannon), the Marcovaldo cycle (Jeannet), and 
Le citta invisibili (Dombroski and Miller), respectively.!9 

JoAnn Cannon takes her starting point — one worth emphasizing — from 
John Barth, according to whom — in Cannon’s words — “the individual text 
ought to take primacy over definitions of an extratextual postmodernist 
program.” Focusing, therefore, on Calvino’s Lezioni americane, Cannon points 
out that although “At first glance this book seems to be the antithesis of 
postmodernist,” it “is in a sense paradigmatic of Italian postmodernism.” At this 
juncture, Cannon relies on the argument she developed in Postmodern Italian 


18 One could certainly add the case of Umberto Eco, primarily because of his novelistic activity 
(Il nome della rosa; Il pendolo di Foucault), which falls within postmodemity’s chronological 
boundaries. 

19 1 would like to point out another recent study of the postmodem Calvino: Siegel’s reading of 
Cosmicomics as a postmoderm autobiography. 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 17 


Fiction, according to which some Italian writers “may be considered postmodern 
in that their works dramatize to varying degrees the crisis of rational attempts at 
making sense of the world.” Such a crisis of reason is symbolized “by 
indeterminate aleato-y structures — the labyrinth, the dream, irrational numbers, 
the open-ended detective novel.” And yet, what characterizes Italian postmodern 
writers is “a positive cognitive structure animating their fiction.” Thus Cannon 
argues that the “notion of writing as an instrument of knowledge is central to 
Calvino’s Norton lectures,” where he derives his inspiration “from science and 
philosophy of science” and where he also defends “the cognitive function of 
literature.” Thus, Calvino’s “insistence on the cognitive role of fiction” sets 
him apart from “those postmodern writers who argue the futility of rational 
thought.” 

Whereas Cannon discusses Calvino’s postmodernism from the perspective 
of his last, unfinished work, Angela M. Jeannet moves back and forth between 
Calvino’s two eras — modernism and postmodernism — through focusing on 
the two Marcovaldo’s cycles. As Cannon reminds us, the labyrinth constitutes 
not only a constant motif in Calvino’s writings but also an image of 
postmodernism. Thus, the title of Jeannet’s essay, “Escape from the Labyrinth: 
Italo Calvino’s Marcovaldo,” already suggests the writer’s modern and 
postmodern posture, which she discusses through carefully exploring the 
transformation of the first Marcovaldo (1958) into the second (1963). She 
reminds us that Calvino was formed within Modernism, that he witnessed 
Neorealism, and that he was also led toward explorations of the fantastic. After 
writing in 1959 that “Questi sono tempi poco propizi alle grandi spiegazioni del 
mondo come ai grandi romanzi” (“I racconti che non ho scritto” 12), Calvino — 
Jeannet argues — “opted for a fantasy harnessed by rational structures” and 
refused “the various solutions proposed by the contemporary literary scene.” 
Accordingly, for Jeannet the first “unitary Marcovaldo cycle breaks up” in 1963, 
and the “second Marcovaldo finds its coherence in its being an open network 
where stories threatened by the void organize in arbitrary and rigorous 
constellations.” Finally, Jeannet argues that Calvino, although aware of his 
culture’s crisis, never gave up the “text’s pleasure and its worth,” which for him 
“had to do with the interpenetration of style and ethics.” I cannot but express my 
appreciation for such a balanced, “humanistic” posture toward our contemporary 
epoch as Calvino’s writings evince: a certain faith in cognitive powers, and the 
text’s pleasure and worth. 

Concerned not only with Calvino’s text but also with the debate on 
postmodernism (just as Cannon and Jeannet), Robert Dombroski and Ross 
Miller explore the metanarrative structure of Le citta invisibili, in which, they 
argue, Calvino defines the ethical limits of textuality. For them, one could 
hardly find “a more paradigmatic text to illustrate the postmodern perspective in 
literature.” In fact, they view the novel as a parable which uses architecture as its 
model and invites the reader to connect the literary text to the world of things and 


18 Dino S. Cervigni 


thus to rehistoricize. Thus, just as we have seen in the two previous essays, 
Dombroski’s and Miller’s analysis once again points out Calvino’s ambivalent 
posture toward modernism as well as postmodernism. Dombroski and Miller 
themselves seem to share such an ambivalence as they distance themselves from 
some of postmodernism’s theorists (especially Hutcheon) and as they argue 
against postmodernism’s “unilateral characterization” of “such metanarratives as 
Marxism and Freudianism.” Furthermore, Dombroski and Miller emphasize 
Calvino’s (and every writer’s) attempt to engage the reader: “Like Marco Polo, 
the postmodern writer . . . must become responsible for the various meanings of 
the people he has visited” as well as for the forms in which “these meanings will 
be expressed.” As to the reader, he too, like Marco Polo, must choose between 
one of the two possible ways “to escape suffering the inferno”; namely, either to 
accept hell by becoming part of it to such an extent that one no longer sees it, or 
to distinguish hell from what hell is not and to give the latter both time and 
space. 

As we have seen thus far, philosophy, history, sociopolitics, and fiction 
have helped us explore modernity and postmodernity. Poetry can help us probe 
further into the notion of the modern and the postmodern, for, as Frye (quoted by 
Guardiani) writes, “Poets are the children of concern” (Myth and Metaphor 21) 
and, as Carravetta reminds us, “Often the poet has already responded to questions 
that philosophers pondered much later” (Prefaces 79). In the volume’s two essays 
devoted exclusively to poetry, Beverly Allen and Emilio Speciale focus on such 
specific feature of contemporary poetry as dialect and metrics and probe their 
postmodern character. 

Allen’s starting point is twofold: modernity’s notion of national identity, 
which is grounded in the concept of a nation-state as it constitutes human 
subjectivity, vis-a-vis the notion of local identity, the origin of which recedes in 
time and constitutes another form of human subjectivity and identity. Within 
this coexisting twofold notion, Allen sees at work two forms of literary 
productions which engage in renegotiating national identity: on the one hand, 
“the postnational novel,” which “operates in a global macrocontext” and 
challenges national identity from its international perspective; on the other, 
“local literature,” which operates in a regional microcontext” and also challenges 
national identity, although from a different perspective. Characteristics of the 
postnational novel (Atwood’s Lady Oracle, Eco’s Il nome della rosa, etc.) are not 
only its “national identity” but also its translation into other languages and its 
wide distribution on an international scale, which depends on contemporary 
technology. But it is precisely these conditions of translation, publication, and 
distribution, which characterize the postnational level, that make it available, at 
the same time, to “a public that does not claim the national ‘identity’ that such a 
novel represents.” Therefore, Allen argues, “the production and reception 
networks of the postnational novel have the effect of calling into question 
traditional valorizations of national ‘identity.”” Hence derives “the notion of 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 19 


place” to be added “‘to the notion of time”: “the positioning and repositioning of 
people and objects within spaces imagined as places.” And hence also follows 
Allen’s transition from national and transnational literature to “local literature” 
(for instance some of the poetry of Zanzotto), which “is emblematic of historic 
resistance to the nation state of a preeminent ‘identity’ category.” In a world, 
therefore, preoccupied with national and transnational issues and empowered with 
sophisticated technology, local literature emphasizes, by contrast, “placeness,” 
“local legend over national literary history,” and identity through a dialect. In 
these and other elements Allen sees Zanzotto’s (and local literature’s?) 
postmodernity: “His own, most postmodern, book is // galateo in bosco.... It 
is also his most immensely local book, I think.” Allen’s conclusion flows 
logically: “National ‘identity,’ as both the postnational level and local literature 
demonstrate, is but one possible image now available to my (postmodern?) self’s 
constitution.””° 

From considerations on the national and transnational novel, Allen moves 
to focus on Zanzotto as a most eminent example of “local literature.” Within the 
same context of contemporary poetry, Valduga is the focus of Speciale’s 
analysis. In both instances, a way of communicating is at stake: dialect and 
metrical forms. 

In contrast to this century’s previous poetic practices, Speciale emphasizes 
contemporary poetry’s option for more transparent communication and the 
erosion of “la rappresentabilita politica” as well as “un partito poetico” in favor 
of the “voce individuale, l’evocazione di una esperienza privata.” Apparently in 
contrast with such emphasis on subjectivity, metrical structures have once again 
reappeared. Speciale surmises that “il ritorno alle forme metriche tradizionali . . . 
credo che sia il riflesso, ma non so quanto cosciente, di una sorta di difesa/attacco 
contro la omologazione della nostra societa di tutte le arti. . . .” Traditional 
metrical forms — Speciale argues — carry out also the desired rapprochement 
with the educated reader, a notion of poetry in terms of imitation, and a 
replobematized relation to tradition. Speciale places Valduga’s poetry within this 
general context through emphasizing her poetry’s peculiar characters: the 
employment of traditional poetic forms (the sonnet, “sonettessa,” octave, tercet; 
endecasyllables; rhyme schemes, etc.), the parodic turning around of the 
thematics of love peculiar of Petrarchism, and the tragic character of the human 


20 From a different yet convergent perspective, Asor Rosa emphasizes Allen’s view on the 

interacting of language and dialect in contemporary Italy: “La letteratura italiana pit recente é 
costretta dunque a misurarsi con una situazione nuovamente del tutto inedita. Una comunita di 

italofoni esiste, molto piii compatta e presumibilmente pid vasta (persino al di 14 dei confini 
politici nazionali) che in passato. Al tempo stesso, perd, la lingua della letteratura e la lingua 
dei parlanti . . . si sono, diversamente dal passato ma non meno profondamente, divaricate” 
(74). Note the subtitle of Asor Rosa’s article: “‘Koiné’ massmediologica.” The same author 

provides a basic bibliography on dialect literature (63n11), for which see also Welle 
(“Pasolini’s Friulian Academy”). 


20 Dino S. Cervigni 


condition and especially of contemporary woman. Valduga’s poetry — “l’unico 
vero tentativo di classicismo che abbia avuto questo secolo” — juxtaposes the 
traditional and the contemporary poetic codes. Finally, Speciale asks where 
Valduga’s poetic practice should be situated vis-a-vis the other contemporary 
poets and postmodernity. Speciale’s suggestions cannot be but tentative and 
cautious. Valduga’s employment of “l’intero codice classico” is likened to what 
has taken place in postmodern architecture, but it can hardly be viewed as a 
common practice among contemporary poets. In Speciale’s view, what 
characterizes all of them is the need to communicate and to make poetry 
accessible to the public. One can wonder whether such a concern with 
communication can be linked with McLuhan’s notion of the medium, as 
expounded by Guardiani, and with the importance of dialect and local literature, 
as discussed by Allen. 

Throughout this volume, readers are reminded time and again of the text’s 
primacy, of the subjectivity of any individual as well as of a multiplicity of 
extratextual issues necessarily confronting any reader. Thus, if, on the one hand, 
modernism seeks to isolate the printed page from the reality surrounding it, 
postmodernism might claim to move precisely toward the opposite direction: 
immersing the text into contemporary society’s diversity, which often seems to 
verge on undecipherable chaos and in which every reader may be allowed to read 
the text according to a totally subjective manner. In “Before, Beneath, and 
Around the Text: The Genesis and Construction of Some Postmodern Fictions,” 
Rebecca West argues for some equilibrium between the relationship of reader and 
text, which contemporary criticism has recently emphasized, and the rapport of 
author and text, which is no longer prevalent but is certainly far from being 
extinct. Focusing on the theoretical writings of Eco, Segre, Corti, and Genette, 
West illustrates an approach to literary analysis which gives full shrift to the 
text and to those elements which lie, as she writes, before, beneath, and around 
the text: avantesto, genotesto, and paratesto. In concluding, West points out that 
another form of text also exists: the “criticotext,” which is the critics’ work and 
which “‘comes after the writer’s labors, and is thus additive rather than creative in 
the full sense of the term.” West suggests that thinking about postmodernist 
authors’ “relation to their texts as well as our own relation to and use of them 
seems ... a legitimately useful (and appropriately ‘friendly’) critical mode that 
can contribute to a lessening of the divide between authors . . . and critics.” 
Furthermore, I would like to argue that West’s composite critical approach is 
respectful not only of the text but also of its author and its reader. I could not 
agree more with West when she concludes: “Entering the dreams of others is 
both a privilege and a responsibility.” By the same token, I would like to add 
that every writer’s “privilege and responsibility” includes also knowing that 
his/her writings will likewise “enter” every reader’s “dreams.” In my opinion, 
therefore, West’s last statement applies to authors and critics alike, their texts, 
and the society in which they are produced: “‘Not to shatter the crystal sphere of 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 21 


fantasy as we search for a way into its center: this is a delicate and crucial 
operation for writers and critics alike.” 

I could not find a more appropriate image to conclude these explorations of 
the modern and the postmodern in Italian literature and to introduce its presence 
in film. 


III. Postmodernism and Film 


Postmodernism seeks to present itself as a concept capable of encompassing, if 
not explaining, today’s contemporary world. Postmodern categories have, 
therefore, been applied to the analysis of film and television: the two most 
prominent mass-cultural media characterized by advanced technological forms of 
communication no longer characteristic of the modern or Gutenbergian but of the 
electronic galaxy.”! 

Within this general context, two articles focus on film per se (Casetti; 
Mazzola) and on poetry’s relation to film and culture (Welle). If in McLuhanian 
terms film could be viewed as the postmodern medium par excellence, for others 
(for instance Jameson) postmodern is only the cinema which is no longer 
committed to representing “reality” and “real time” (as the case is with novels 
which pursue grand narratives). Within the latter notion of postmodern cinema, 
the essays of Casetti and Mazzola strike the reader provocatively, insofar as they 
focus on two films — Fellini’s 8//2 and Antonioni’s Deserto rosso — which 
are not usually associated with postmodernism. And yet, the two authors 
illustrate in which ways those two films are harbingers of postmodern 
representations. 

Casetti’s thesis is that 8//2 contrasts two different views of cinema and thus 
of artistic creation: the first is based on a Romantic view of art and is pursued by 
Guido, the director who is within the film itself and who is in crisis, while the 
second is called for by the people surrounding him and by the public. The clash 
between these two ideal films, which, as it were, elide each other, brings to light 
a third cinematic production, which prefigures a postmodern work. Guido’s 
unrealized creation — Casetti argues — is like a “journal de 1’4me” woven with 
fantasies and memories. It is also like a deformed vision of reality which is 
bound to fail. Guido’s failure is determined by such external elements as friends, 
relatives, the film troupe, and the producer. While Guido’s search for a principle 
of personal expression is linked to Romantic opera, the demand of a specific 
performance, on which the people surrounding him insist, derives from the 


21 Postmodernism claims, in fact, to embrace all forms of culture, from high to low, it considers 
them essential aspects of the contemporary world and therefore worthy of critical consideration. 
On postmodernism and popular culture in general see Connor’s and Shapiro’s bibliographies; 
within an Italian context, see Barariski. 


22 Dino S. Cervigni 


industrialized society’s emphasis on productivity. Guido nevertheless remains 
inactive. And yet — Casetti argues — “Il film si pud fare, basta girarlo.” And 
here is then the film’s outcome: “il suo tema é la ricerca di un tema; il suo senso 
é l’incertezza di un senso. II nuovo film accetta l’indecidibilita dei significati e 
delle assiologie. ... il suo ordine é la frammentazione e l’accumulo. . . . il suo 
genere é l’assenza di genere. ... Lo sfaldamento del soggetto. .. .” Is it 
possible — Casetti queries in concluding — to see in all these characteristics a 
harbinger of postmodernism? 

Like Fellini’s 8//2, Antonioni’s Deserto rosso also came to the screen in 
the early 1960s. Just as Casini in the analysis of 8//2, Mazzola also views 
Antonioni’s film as an anticipation of postmodernism, or, as he calls it, the 
postmodern desert. Antonioni — Mazzola argues — breaks away from the 
postwar neorealistic films’ representation of reality in order to recreate a new sort 
of realism intended to reflect the new industrialized society’s emergence. Mazzola 
points out that it is precisely in the late fifties — that is, along with 
Antonioni’s Deserto rosso — that Lyotard sees the emergence of what he calls 
the postindustrial and postmodern society. In an epoch, therefore, which 
witnesses social change, Antonioni searches for more appropriate narrative 
forms, which may reflect the intellectuals’ changing role within society, the 
concept itself of communication, and the problematics involving representing a 
reality which no longer seems representable. Antonioni’s Deserto rosso explores 
such a problematics in multiple ways: through prolonging the film’s temporal 
sequences, thus making the film story static, through making reality 
undistinguishable from non-reality, and through situating all characters in 
isolation, that is, in a desert. Most interestingly, in the film’s last sequence, in 
which Giuliana is once again in front of a factory, Mazzola sees the feminine 
persona as postmodern society’s dominant figure: although still in transition, 
she nevertheless is clearly endowed with those moral and intellectual resources 
which man has seemingly lost temporarily. 

Thus, Fellini’s 81/2 and Antonioni’s Deserto rosso query, in Linda 
Hutcheon’s words, “those boundaries . . . between art and life” (A Poetics of 
Postmodernism 224-25). To pursue further the analysis of such a claim, John P. 
Welle also quotes Hutcheon, who in A Politics of Postmodernism restates that 
postmodernism points to a “transgression of the boundaries between genres, 
between disciplines or discourses, between high and mass culture, and... 
between practice and theory” (119). Bearing in mind this claim of 
postmodernism, Welle analyzes what he calls Pasolini’s film poems: that is, 
“poetic texts with filmic references.” Through identifying and analyzing 
Pasolini’s filmic thematics in his poems, Welle investigates not just the ways 
in which cinema and poetry interact and interrelate — an issue he has pursued in 
Annali a’ italianistica: Film and Literature — but more specifically how Pasolini 
views the older, established, and “nobler” form vis-a-vis the younger, twentieth- 
century technological mass medium. Welle points out not only Pasolini’s 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 23 


“realization that the cinema speaks to audiences beyond the reach of poetry” but 
also what is central to Pasolini’s entire undertaking; namely, “that the status of 
literary culture itself hangs in the balance.” Hence derives Pasolini’s “realization 
that the cinema ‘assorda il canto degli aedi,’” his “profound anxiety regarding the 
cultural status of the poet,” and his awareness that film “has taken over the civil 
responsibilities . . . previously assumed to be the province of literature.” The 
notion of postmodernism which Welle employs, relying on Schulte-Sasse and 
Hutcheon, constitutes an appropriate context for Pasolini’s poetic reflections on 
film. Pasolini in fact proposes “a critical conjuncture between history, filmic 
representation, and subjectivity,” which explains his own “shifts between poetry, 
the novel, and film” and ultimately brings about his parodic “undercutting [of] 
his own persona as lyric poet.” In Pasolini’s critical attitude vis-a-vis film and 
poetry within poetry itself, Welle sees at work the problematics of modernism 
and postmodernism: “Pasolini’s view of cinema and poetry points to the 
inevitable continuity and discontinuity between these broad terms of periodic 
demarcation.” Hence, once again, derives the characteristic postmodern 
effacement of historical and representational boundaries. 


5. A Final Word 


From philosophy to politics, history, and feminism, from fiction to poetry and 
dialect, and finally from cinema to film poems, the twenty contributors to this 
ninth monographic issue of Annali d’ italianistica have taken us on a journey 
through their complex explorations of the modern and the postmodern in 
contemporary Italy. After soliciting and/or accepting their contributions, reading 
and editing their papers, corresponding and exchanging converging and diverging 
views with them, the time has come to acknowledge my gratitude to all of them 
for helping me bring this volume to completion and for reading and commenting 
on this introductory paper.” 

At this point, I cannot but pause and share some reflections on the topic at 
hand. Most essays featured in this volume, especially those in the first section, 
point more or less directly to a basic postmodern tenet; namely, in Linda 
Hutcheon’s words, “the inadequacies of totalizing systems and of fixed 
institutionalized boundaries (epistemological and ontological).” In fact, she 
proposes to replace “poetics” with “problematics”: “a set of problems and basic 
issues that have been created by the various discourses of postmodernism, issues 
that were not particularly problematic before but certainly are now” (A Poetics of 


22 Further acknowledgements of gratitude are also due to all reviewers, who have contributed 
toward creating the largest section of book reviews ever published in Annali d’italianistica and 
in any Italian journal in North America. I would also like to acknowledge my gratitude to 
Raymond A. Prier for reading this essay and for making valid suggestions. 


24 Dino S. Cervigni 


Postmodernism 234). Hardly any one is willing to contest that a central mode of 
postmodernism is to problematize, because — it has been argued — 
postmodernity has seen the era of absolute truths come to an end and is thus 
confronted by a multiplicity of issues. And yet, postmodernism’s critics counter 
that such a proposed problematics runs the risk of becoming institutionalized and 
turning itself into a dogma just as the one which postmodernism contests. Take 
for instance the ethical realm, which for postmodernism cannot but become 
ethical subjectivism. According to Alex Callinicos, postmodernists, for instance 
Fredric Jameson, avoid “passing judgment — whether positive or negative — on 
Postmodernism” (129), since for Jameson, “if postmodernism is a historical 
phenomenon, then the attempt to conceptualize it in terms of moral or 
moralizing judgments must finally be identified as a category-mistake” 
(Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism” 85). Critics of 
postmodernism’s ethical subjectivism, however, counter that to claim “It is 
always wrong to make moral judgments” is self-defeating. For, as Mary Midgley 
argues in Can't we Make Moral Judgments? “any condemnation of all moral 
judgment is inescapably a self-condemnation” and “even in the more developed 
positions of the cultural relativist and the individual subjectivist, every attempt 
to do away with morality inevitably invokes it” (Kane 7). 

Furthermore, ethical relativism and personal subjectivism may lead to 
skepticism with the ultimate disruption of all rational discourse, including the 
one carried out by postmodernists. In this issue of Ad/, Gullace, reviewing 
Melillo’s Indagine su KA-KANATA. Pluralismo filosofico, objects to Melillo’s 
philosophical pluralism, since for the reviewer such a philosophical attitude 
“means relativism and individualism, implying that there is no truth or falsehood 
per se, while what is asked of philosophy is universal truth, stable principles, 
not a diversity of opinions.” Gullace is correct in holding that the philosopher’s 
task has traditionally been to pursue truth and principles. And yet, how is it 
possible for us to attain truth and principles if not in a limited manner and 
through a debate open also to people of different views? For just as no single 
thinker, so no single epoch can lay absolute claim on philosophical truths or 
ethical principles. Ultimately, after employing one’s cognitive powers to the 
utmost, what is required of every one who yearns for metaphysical truths and 
ethical principles is to take a step which cannot but require an act of faith. I, for 
one, find quite acceptable, both philosophically and pragmatically, the position 
displayed by Petrarch, who claims to doubt everything except what he must 
accept as a believer.” At the same time, however, whether or not one holds that 


23 Writing on secular and religious interpretations of history, a scholar of postmodermism, 
Said, comments on what “Vico calls divine Providence mysteriously at work within history” 
(145). Said submits that the “conversion of the absence of religion into the presence of 
actuality is secular interpretation” (146). Just as, in my opinion, it ultimately takes an act of 
faith in order to attain metaphysical truths, it also takes an act of faith to see divine providence 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 25 


truth is attainable, tolerance and mutual respect and acceptance concerning 
practical and intellectual matters are a conditio sine qua non if we are to continue 
living.” Since no return to an edenic past is (or ever was) possible, tolerance in 
fact becomes an imperative, unless we want to turn this fragmented and 
centerless world into original chaos. 

Postmodernism’s ethical subjectivism parallels a much broader individual 
subjectivism and cultural relativism to such an extent that for some scholars 
(and we now return to the theoretical sphere) postmodernism is necessarily not 
one but many. As Selden puts it: “there are as many ‘postmodernisms’ as 
theorists” (74). Hence derives also another important issue: postmodernism’s 
relation to deconstruction and poststructuralism. In fact, according to some 
critics postmodernism’s world view parallels, or is outright identifiable with, 
that proposed, either implicitly or explicitly, by poststructuralism: 


Despite the diversity of trends within each [postmodernism and poststructuralism], 
there is no doubt that poststructuralist thought is to some extent a body of reflections 
upon the same issues which concern postmodern culture as understood by critics such 
as Ihab Hassan, Jean Francois Lyotard, Fredric Jameson and Gerald Graff. 

(Selden 72) 


In fact, according to the same critic, 


The questioning of all ‘depth models,’ the decentering of the world and the self, the 
rejection of elitist aesthetics and experimental formalisms, the disruption of all 
discursive boundaries, the obliteration of the frontiers between high and low culture 
and between art and commodity, and the resistance to meaning and interpretation, are 
all themes of poststructuralism. 

(Selden 74) 


Even such a convinced postmodernist as Linda Hutcheon does not dismiss such 


at work in history. Italianists know that such a view permeates, for instance, ] promessi sposi 
(Mariani). Except for Said’s attempt to separate “history” from “human society” — a separation 
I cannot conceive as possible — Manzoni would likely agree with Said’s following statement: 
“The fundamental thing is that history and human society are made up of numerous efforts of 
crisscrossing each other, frequently at odds with each other, always untidy in the way they 
involve each other. Vico’s writing directly reflects this crowded spectacle” (145). Discussing 
religious issues in /] superamento del moderno, Fomi outlines possible views of history which 
is inclusive of a religious category, and he quotes Maritain (1882-1973), especially Umanesimo 
integrale, as an example of a Christian thinker. Forni further discusses Nietzsche’s “death of 
God” from the perspective of Barth: “Barth pensa che il Dio che muore sia sostanzialmente un 
idolo che va in effetti eliminato nel fuoco purificatore dell’ateismo” (118); “L‘ateismo é la 
distruzione degli idoli, dei ‘valori’ supremi che l’uomo si é costruito nell’epoca della sua 
sicurezza” (120). (I would like to thank Peter Carravetta for bringing this book to my attention.) 

On tolerance see Galeotti’s review article of the “Morrell Tolerance Project,” and some of its 
publications, with extensive bibliography. 


26 Dino S. Cervigni 


“overlappings” between poststructuralism and postmodernism, which she 
nevertheless seeks further ws ‘haracterize: 


we need to go beyond the now obligatory association of the postmodern with the 
poststructuralist. Admittedly Habermas (1983) is largely responsible for promoting 
the association and the two terms did enter North American theoretical debates about 
the same time. They were also greeted with the same hostility by Marxists, 
traditionalists, and neoconservatives alike. But, while there are significant 
overlappings of concern between these two most polemical “posts” today, to equate 
them would be to ignore the very strong connections between postmodernism and 
other modes of contemporary theory: discourse analysis, feminist, black, ethnic, 
gay, post-colonial, and other ex-centric theories; psychoanalysis; historiographic 
theory; and even analytic philosophy. 

(A Poetics 226) 


Obviously, those who have long given up making any sense out of 
poststructuralist and deconstructionist trends will be overwhelmed to a much 
greater extent by such an avowed overlapping of poststructuralism and 
postmodernism. Those, however, who have always sought to follow and 
understand the last two decades’ developments in criticism, theory, and all other 
interconnected disciplines may be allowed to address once again the promoters of 
postmodernism in order to ask greater clarity in their debate and further practical 
demonstrations of the ways postmodernism can be effectively applied to the 
analysis of literary texts. 

I am therefore grateful to all the contributors to this volume, since their 
essays — from those focusing on philosophy, theory, and sociopolitics to those 
devoted to the analysis of literary texts and films — tend precisely to move 
forward the postmodern debate, while they also show possible applications to 
written and visual texts in contemporary Italian culture. 

In addition to those issues which belong to postmodernism as a global 
notion, further problems are peculiar of the Italian philosophical and literary 
scene. In the Anglo-Saxon world the explorations of modernity and 
postmodernity have influenced each other and have also contributed toward a 
more precise formulation of these two notions. Italy, however, is characterized 
not only by a scarcity of study of the postmodern but by an almost virtual 
absence of studies of the modern itself. Furthermore, insofar as one accepts the 
relationship between postmodernism and poststructuralism, one cannot but 
wonder to what extent postmodernism can become a potentially fruitful notion 
in Italy since Italian scholarship has never completely embraced 
poststructuralism. A case in point is the Letteratura italiana edited by Asor Rosa, 
consisting of nine volumes, plus two of indexes, in which the notion of the 
postmodern has found no systematic treatment. Postmodernism’s foremost 
supporters — from Lyotard to Jameson to Vattimo to Carravetta — are quoted 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 2) 


but a handful of times, usually in footnotes.2> Most interestingly — and 
disconcertingly to the supporters of the postmodern — although the last 
subheading (in italics) in the last volume is entitled “Verso il post-moderno” 
(7.3:xili), to which corresponds the homonymous header spanning pages 966- 
1287, no author ventures into the discussion of the postmodern per se, even 
though most of those authors treat issues which American theorists would 
certainly categorize as such.”° In brief, if one were to infer something from 
postmodernism’s treatment in what certainly constitutes one of the most 
extensive studies of Italian literary culture in the twentieth century, the notion of 
postmodernism has still to come of age on the Italian peninsula. 

Carravetta, the most dedicated supporter of postmodernism among all 
American Italianists, shares some of my concerns. In concluding his essay 
“Postmodern Chronicles,” he asks: “where, in all this, is Italy? Italian culture 
and society?” In fact, he openly admits that “If we look around, the scenario is 
not encouraging.” While I adopt Carravetta’s queries about the status of Italian 
explorations of postmodernism, I would also like to join him in asking: “‘if it 
[postmodernism] exists, what does a postmodern literature, or visual art, look 
like? can it help in perceiving other historical periods in a different light? and by 
extension, what is the status of the critic, of the mediator, of the manipulator of 
unescapable metalanguage?” Hence derives the specific task of Italianists who are 
concerned with the postmodern and operate in the English-speaking world: to 
bridge the gap between the two cultures. In brief, insofar as the debate on the 
postmodern is an Anglo-Saxon phenomenon (Carravetta, Prefaces 268n11), 
American Italianists share the scholarly responsibility to carry their debate over 
to Italian matters. 

I feel compelled to share another reflection with this issue’s readers. As I 
read to prepare myself to this issue, I have time and again come across a sense of 
urgency about the debate at hand and a seemingly pervasive impatience toward all 
those who differ, ultimately leading to assertions about the present epoch which 
broach no question. Time and again I felt that the repudiated and condemned 
“‘logocentrism” has been not displaced but has been replaced by another form of - 
ism: For instance, in one of the few undisputed books on postmodernism, 
Lyotard writes in the “Appendix,” the first heading of which is titled “A 
Demand”: 


A Demand 
. .. | have read an art historian. . . . I have read an art critic. . . . | have read that under 
the name of postmodernism, architects. . . . I have read that a new philosopher... . I 


25 Lyotard 2:465n; 4:617n; 636; 645n; 5:423n; 7:1117n; Jameson 4:678 and n; 4:680 and n; 
Vattimo 2:489n; 3:315n; 334n; 4:614n; 645n; Carravetta 4:16n; 4:645n. 

For instance, Ragone discusses mass media and popular culture since the fifties (1142-67) 
and quotes the Calvino of Lezioni americane as well as Lyotard (1167). 


28 Dino S. Cervigni 


have read that a French weekly. . . . I have read from the pen of a reputable historian. . 
. . I have been reading that a young philosopher of language. . . . I have read a 
talented theatrologist for whom postmodernism. . . . I have read a thinker of repute. . 


(71-72) 


Since I see no need to comment on the author’s iterative tone, which echoes the 
language of logocentric books, nor on his benevolent and paternalistic 
condescension which verges on irony, I skip to the last two pages of the 
“Appendix”: 


The nineteenth and twentieth centuries have given us as much terror as we can take. 
We have paid a high enough price for the nostalgia of the whole and the one, for the 
reconciliation of the concept and the sensible, of the transparent and the 
communicable experience. Under the general demand for slackening and for 
appeasement, we can hear the mutterings of the desire for a return of terror, for the 
realization of the fantasy to seize reality. The answer is: Let us wage a war on totality; 
let us be witnesses to the unpresentable, let us activate the differences and save the 
honor of the name. 

(81-82) 


Together with all people of good will, I too want to join Lyotard in deprecating 
the terror — all terrors — not just of our time but of all times. But I beg to 
disagree on the concept of “the whole and the one,” for it is indeed polysemous. 
The choice of this Dantean word is not at all fortuitous. For me, in fact, the 
concept of “the whole and the one” is stronger than just a “nostalgia,” unless I 
take the latter etymologically: a desire to return to “the whole and the one,” 
which I understand a /a Dante, Michelangelo, Manzoni, etc. Like these writers, I 
too try not necessarily to seize reality but to understand and represent it. No 
matter how futile or limited the attempt may be, I too seek to become, together 
with those authors, “witnesses to the unpresentable” and bring out “the 
differences.” I am furthermore willing to debate and argue — hence this volume 
on postmodernism. For I care about what I do and believe; indeed, praxis and 
belief, thought and action are inseparable. Hence derives the openness to 
documenting an ongoing debate, which this volume demonstrates. But please no 
more wars! 

Openness to the ongoing debate on postmodernism — just as on any other 
issue — has compelled me neither to exclude a priori any dissenting views nor 
presumptuously to speak for everybody. Accordingly, I do not think any one can 
write, as I read, that “we no longer believe in political or historical teleologies, 
or in the great ‘actors’ and ‘subjects’ of history — the nation-state, the 
proletariat, the party, the West, etc.” (Jameson, “Foreword” XII; emph. mine).27 





27 Different (but not at all unrelated) is the issue of those who write that seemingly “there is no 
space available for engaging with the postmodemist question from outside it, for to engage with 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 29 


Immediately afterward, however, Jameson seems to strike a more conciliatory 
tone than that he attributes to Lyotard. Jameson writes: 


This seeming contradiction can be resolved, I believe, by taking a further step that 
Lyotard seems unwilling to do in the present text, namely to posit not the 
disappearance of the great master-narratives, but their passage underground as it were, 
their continuing but now unconscious effectivity as a way of “thinking about” and 
acting in our current situation. This persistence of buried master-narratives in what I 
have elsewhere called our ‘political unconscious. . 

(““Foreword” x11) 


I just wonder how Lyotard and Jameson would categorize what the entire world 
has witnessed precisely at the time this volume was being written; namely, the 
collapse of Soviet communism (was it not a master narrative?) and Boris 
Yeltsin’s public confession of his faith in God (or is this just a micro- 
narrative?). The reader, of course, decides what ought to be considered a “master” 
narrative or a “small” narrative, and what has been unconscious, underground or, 
rather, has never ceased to be at work. Finally, I cannot help but quote once 
again Rebecca West’s final statement, which, through a poetic image, expresses 
appositely everyone’s task in our contemporary world: “Not to shatter the crystal 
sphere of fantasy as we search for a way into its center: this is a delicate and 
crucial operation for writers and critics alike.” 


The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


Works Cited 


Ascari, Clavio. Rev. of Le poetiche della modernita in Italia, by Ezio Raimondi. 
Annali d’ italianistica 9 (1991). 

Asor Rosa, Alberto. “Centralismo e policentrismo nella letteratura italiana unitaria.” 
Ia Alberto Asor Rosa, ed. Vol. 7. pees e geografia. Tome 3. L’eta 
contemporanea. 1989. 3-74. 

, ed. Letteratura italiana. 9 vols. in 11 tomes. Milano: Einaudi, 1982-1991. 

Barrsek. Zygmunt G. and Robert Lumley, eds. Culture and Conflict in Postwar Italy: 
Essays on Mass and Popular Culture. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1990. 

Barth, John. “The Literature of Replenishment: Postmodernist Fiction.” The Atlantic 
(January 1980): 69. 

Biasin, Gian Paolo. Rev. of L’allegoria del moderno. Saggi sull’allegorismo come 
forma artistica del moderno e come metodo di conoscenza, by Romano Luperini. 
Annali d’italianistica 9 (1991). 

Callinicos, Alex. Against Postmodernism: A Marxist Critique. New York: St. 


postmodemism, even in the form of a detached survey, or a negative critique, however hostile, 
is to become part of it” (Connor 8). 


30 Dino S. Cervigni 


Martin’s Press, 1990. 

Carravetta, Peter. Prefaces to the Diaphora: Rhetorics, Allegory, and the 
Interpretation of Postmodernity. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1991. 

The Compact Edition of the Oxford English Dictionary. 2 vols. Oxford UP: 1971. 

Connor, Steven. Postmodernist Culture: An Introduction to Theories of the 
Contemporary. Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1989. 

Cortelazzo, Manlio and Paolo Zolli. Dizionario etimologico della lingua italiana. 5 
vols. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1979-88. 

de Lauretis, Teresa. Technologies of Gender: Essays on Theory, Film and Fiction. 
Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1987. 

Forni, Guglielmo. II superamento del moderno. Frammenti di filosofia del quotidiano. 
Universale il portolano 13. Bologna: Cappelli, 1984. 

Foster, Hal, ed. The Anti-Aesthetic: Essays on Postmodern Culture. Ed. and introd. 
Hal Foster. Seattle: Bay Press, 1983. 

Galeotti, Anna Elisabetta. “Cosa leggere sulla tolleranza.” L’indice schede 8.7 
(1991): 9. 

Grande dizionario della letteratura italiana. Vol. 13. Torino: UTET, 1986. 

Gullace, Giovanni. Rev. of Benedetto Croce Reconsidered. Truth and Error in Theories 
of Art, Literature, and History, by M. E. Moss. Annali d’italianistica 7 (1989): 
485-87. 

. Rev. of Croce and Marxism: From the Years of Revisionism to the Last 
Postwar Period, by Emesto G. Caserta. Annali d’italianistica 7 (1989): 482-85. 

. Rev. of Indagine su KA-KANATA. Pluralismo filosofico, by Rita Melillo. 
Annali d’ italianistica 9 (1991). 

. Rev. of Vicende dell’ estetica tra vecchio e nuovo positivismo, by Emesto 
Paolozzi. Annali d’italianistica 8 (1990): 483-87. 

Harvey, David. The Condition of Postmodernity. Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1989. 

Headley, John M. “Tommaso Campanella and the end of the Renaissance.” Journal of 
Medieval and Renaissance Studies 20:2 (1990): 157-74. 

Holub, Renate. Rev. Prefaces to the Diaphora: Rhetorics, Allegory, and the 
Interpretation of Postmodernity, by Peter Carravetta. Annali d’italianistica 9 
(1991). 

Hutcheon, Linda. A Poetics of Postmodernism: History, Theory, Fiction. New York: 
Routledge, 1988. 

Jameson, Fredric. “Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism.” New 
Left Review 146 (1984): 53-92. 

Kane, Francis. “Morality on the Barricades.” Rev. of Can't we Make Moral 
Judgments?, by Mary Midgley. The New York Times Book Review Aug. 4, 
1991: 7-8. 

Lyotard, Jean-Francois. The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge. Trans. 
Geoff Bennington and Brian Massumi. For. Fredric Jameson. Theory and History 
of Literature 10. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1984. Trans. of La Condition 
postmoderne: rapport sur le savoir. Paris: Les Editions de Minuit, 1979. 

Mariani, Umberto. “Evoluzione dello storicismo manzoniano.” Annali d’ italianistica 
3 (1985): 85-97. 

Maritain, Jacques. Integral Humanism: Spiritual Problems of a New Christendom. 
New York: Scribner, 1968. French ed. 1936. 


The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction 31 


Midgley, Mary. Can’t We Make Moral Judgments? New York: St. Martin’s Press, 
1991. 

Portoghesi, Paolo. After Modern Architecture. Trans. Meg Shore. New York: Rizzoli, 
1982. Rev. ed., Postmodern: The Architecture of the Postindustrial Society. New 
York: Rizzoli, 1983. 

Ragone, Giovanni. “Editoria, letteratura e comunicazione.” In Alberto Asor Rosa, ed. 
7:1047-1167. 

Raimondi, Ezio. Le poetiche della modernita in Italia. Milano: Garzanti, 1990. 

Said, Edward W. “Opponents, Audiences, Constituencies and Community.” In Foster 
135-59. Rpt. from Critical Inquiry 9 (September 1982). 

Schulte-Sasse, Jochen. “Modernity and Modernism, Postmodernity and 
Postmodernism: Framing the Issue.” Cultural Critique 5 (Winter 1986-87): 5-22. 

Siegel, Kristi. “Italo Calvino’s Cosmicomics: Qfwfg’s Postmodern Autobiography.” 
Italica 1 (1991): 43-59. 

Tamburri, Anthony J. and Charles Ganelin, eds. RLA Romance Languages Annual. 2 
vols. West Lafayette: Purdue Research Foundation, 1991. 

Vattimo, Gianni. La societa trasparente. Postmoderno: una societa trasparente? 
Milano: Garzanti, 1989. 

and Pier Aldo Rovatti, eds. /] pensiero debole. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1983. 

Viano, Maurizio. “Sesso debole, pensiero debole.” Annali d'italianistica. Women’s 
Voices in Italian Literature. Ed. Rebecca West and Dino S. Cervigni. 7 (1989): 
394-422. 

Welle, John P. “Introduction. From Pastrone to Calvino: New Perspectives on Italian 
Film and Literature.” Annali d’italianistica 6 (1988): 4-17. 

. “Pasolini’s Friulian Academy, Dialect Poetry, and Translation Studies.” 

Tamburri and Ganelin 2:286-90. 





Peter Carravetta 


Postmodern Chronicles 





1. Pretext 


In a recent article titled “Il tramonto del postmoderno,” and published in the trial 
issue of a new journal called Campo (which looks like a perfect bound Alfabeta 
recidiva),! Romano Luperini takes the last stab at what he deems to be the 
anguished bleeding soul of the Postmodern, a period which covers the last 
twenty years of Italian (and implicitly West-European) culture, and which, 
according to him, has witnessed the passage from an “historical immobility” to a 
foundationless “‘ahistoricity” (astoricita). The only thing new, he adds ironically, 
has been the fact that “everything is the same,” and that, despite the great 
increase in the options available to us on the surface (with specific reference to 
electronic technology and the mass media), the “scelte di fondo” — the serious 
options, we might say — have been perilously reduced. 

The argument is familiar enough to those who have followed Luperini's 
unflinching critique, through the Eighties, of contemporary Italian philosophy 
and of the Nietzsche-Heidegger trunk in particular.? In his view, ours is the 
epoch of apologetic philosophy, of soft nihilism and of weak thought, leftovers 
of the predominance of that “ontology of language” which completely ignored 
reality. Fortunately, he says elsewhere in the same journal (37-45), things are 
changing, because the neo-romantic, neo-hermeneutic current which reached its 
apex with Gianni Vattimo's 1987 essay “Hermeneutics as a Koine”? is 


1 As of this writing — March 1991 — only the first “numero-progetto (doppio)” of the “rivista 
possibile” has come out. The editorial blurb stresses that besides an exchange among differing 
intellectual disciplines, each issue will deal in depth only with one field, or “campo” but... 
“sempre sul filo dello ‘sperimentalismo.’” The word must be taken in the acceptation it had in 
the Sixties and the Seventies, otherwise it would not be coherent with the journal’s negative 
critique of postmodernism, which to all accounts can also be considered an extended, indeed a 
persistent, experimentalism. (All translations are my own.) 

2 Most of these attacks have appeared in the journal L’ombra d’Argo; per uno studio 
materialistico della letteratura, which was published by Milella from 1983 to 1989. See for 
instance Luperini 1987, and in general in all issues under the various rubrics on “Note e 
contronote,” “Il panorama delle riviste,” etc. 

3 The Italian version appeared in AUT AUT (217-18) in 1987, and was republished in 

anthologies and collections; an English translation came out in Featherstone 1988:399-408, 
and will be republished in Vattimo’s forthcoming Consequences of Hermeneutics (Humanities 

Press, 1992). 


Postmodern Chronicles 33 


dissolving, and the need for a new, not “strong,” but “critical thought” is making 
itself felt more than ever.* Luperini is a critic who has the merit of being engagé 
in an age of callous non-commitment, who reiterates that there is always an 
epistemic triangle at work from which we cannot, or should not, sway off 
whenever we do criticism — namely: author-text-reader — and who has made 
serious strides towards a re-appreciation of the notion of allegory;> and yet, it is 
discomforting to perceive how acritically he attacks the opponents and how 
simplistic is his assessment of those thinkers who for better or for worse did 
indeed attempt to come to grips with some fundamental problems of the past 
twenty years. More specifically, Luperini writes: 


The postmodem is a metaphysics of the here and now [dell’oggi]: the reduction to the 
immediate present of a past deprived of its historical density and reduced to Kitsch, 
and the annihilation of the future are an integral part of its culture. In fact, the 
ideology of the postmodern sees its positive effect in this lowering of tension and 
the end of any perspective: if strong passions and strong thoughts have produced so 
much violence, it is said, better the present weakness. Thus the end of any whatsoever 
alternative form of thinking is greeted with joy, risking in the meantime to take 
down any likely critical thinking. Never before has European and American culture 
been so complicitous to the forces of power, so permeated by it as to be entirely 
unable to assume against it any critical or cognitive distance. 

(Campo 5) 


It is a clear call to arms, a call to begin again with cultural “projects,” praising 


4 It should be noted, moreover, that together with interpretation theory of the hermeneutic kind, 
Luperini condemns also the literature of those neo-romantics who simply juggle words only to 
play up to the unreality of the media. Echoing views shared also by Filiberto Menna, the debate 
over what makes “serious” literature in the Eighties is plurivocal and thomy, and should be 
addressed separately. Perhaps once again what the writers (and artists for the plastic arts) 
themselves have to say on the subject is of crucial importance. All the same, the mere fact of 
Taising the issue — yet again! — of what a critic and a writer “ought to do” by addressing the 
relationship between word and reality, social role and aesthetic values, points to a number of 
complex problems in contemporary Italian culture. The names alone of the majority of critics 
and artists who reunited to give the former Alfabeta new life indicate that — unlike what 
happened with the ex Novissimi and the Gruppo 63, who in the late seventies recanted certain 

earlie poetological and theoretical positions — these are true diehards, intellectuals who sort of 
lay fallow until the new hermeneutic fad presumably went by: Francesco Leonetti, Paolo 
Volponi, Filippo Bettini, Biagio Cipollaro, Mario Spinella, Fulvio Abate, Mario Lunetta, 
Sandro Briosi, Alberto Arbasino, Giuliano Gramigna, Giulio Carlo Argan and others of more 
recent acquisition. Despite specific differences vis-a-vis their American counterparts, who at 
least confronted and responded to the various notions of the postmodem (see Arac, Kaplan, 
Cultural Critique), these intellectuals are all on the left, and could be critically situated on the 
same bank with the theoreticians of the “postmodernism of resistance,” (see Patella’s book and 
his article in this issue), allowing us to sketch the premises for a current we might call a 
“(neo)modernism of resistance,” with all attendant contradictions. 

3 See for instance Luperini 1986, 1987 and other articles which appeared in Allegoria. 


34 Peter Carravetta 


in the meantime the fact that, for instance, in the United States the alleged 
“waning” of the deconstructionist, hermeneutic and reader-reception schools of 
criticism (rather generically assumed to be representative of postmodernist 
thinking), coincides with the ever growing critique on the part of conservatives 
against excessive liberalizing of the curricula, the various attacks against Duke 
University, the need to reinstate “Great Books” and the traditional “Classics,” and 
finally the growing move to stop this nonsense about the end of the subject, the 
Master Narrative, and the literature of minorities, women, and homosexuals.® In 
his anti-postmodernist tirade, Luperini enlists the contribution by Hirsch (39). 
So why not, we might add, Allen Bloom and William Bennet? I have to agree 
with him that the very recent attempts to wed deconstruction with hermeneutics 
are, to put it mildly, a theoretical aberration,’ and a further symptom of the 
confusion (but also of the objective complexity) that reigns supreme. However, 
it is not at all true that Gianni Vattimo is seeking “a sweet nothingness” (“un 
dolce nulla”) or a “new utopia” (6), or even that he means to change the ethic 
into the aesthetic.® In reality, Vattimo holds precisely the contrary view. He has 
indeed been assessing how everything has gone aesthetic or become transparent, 
but on the basis of an objective assessment of various phenomena (II pensiero 
debole), arriving at the conclusion that THIS is the case, but at the same time he 
has held that, because of this, the ethic is the new frontier for both aesthetics as 
a discipline and for hermeneutics as a praxis. Therefore Vattimo's papers on the 
“decline of ontology” or on nihilism and nothingness may in fact spur a 
correlative phantomatic return to the Mythical, to the narrative mode. This, 
however, is neither an escape nor a tacit nod to the forces of the market, but 
rather it is an invitation (on the tracks of a certain Nietzsche and a certain 
Heidegger) to finally realize that all those elaborate variations on Enlightenment 
optimism and rationalism have produced elaborate variations of the Same thing, 
insofar as humans are constantly jostled about as entities and not as beings, as 
bookkeeping entries and as expendable or cmelly recyclable work force 
legitimated by a logic which, once the highest achievement of Western culture, 
is now anthropophagically turning on itself. 


6 The literature on these issues in the United States is vast and it represents the state of turmoil 
and uncertainty that characterizes the eighties, variously dubbed “the age of Reagan,” “the MTV 
decade” and so on. The responses to Bennet, Bloom and Hirsch, Jr., have been heard within and 
outside academia. For a critique from the point of view of postmodem hermeneutics, focusing on 
the “core curriculum” and the notion of “classic,” see Spanos. For a neoconservative overview 
on these issues, focused on Duke University, see D’Souza, “Iliberal Education.” I would like to 
thank Paolo Giordano for bringing this article to my attention. 

7 This remains a great critical-theoretical problem. In Italy as in the United States, the 
confrontation Gadamer/Derrida has spawned position papers and compelled much reflection. 
Luperini’s plausible target may have been Ferraris’ ongoing work on the “hermeneutics of the 
trace.” 

8 For a critical exposition of Vattimo’s hermeneutics in light of the modem-postmodem debate, 
see my “Gianni Vattimo and the End(s) of Modemity” in Prefaces 215-35 


Postmodern Chronicles 35 


Whether or not we live in an age of impending barbarism is not the point 
here. But it ought to be stated that, if read “generously,” the Weak Thought 
proposal has much going for itself: it certainly can help us untangle the 
postmodern knot insofar as it does “lower” the theoretical anxiety to want to 
understand and speak for everything, and it does not once suggest that the 
postmodern is a movement or epoch that follows upon the end of the modern 
(quite to the contrary, it actually re-evaluates it in interesting ways). Finally, and 
perhaps above all, it suggests that the condition we should explore, understand, 
live out as experiencing-feeling beings is the reality of risk (Rovatti), of errancy 
(Amoroso), of chance (Marconi), even of that being-in-the-same-place (Amoroso) 
which can be transformed into an itinerary, a journey both mental and 
sentimental (Comolli; Vattimo-Rovatti 29-51, 137-63, 164-80, 181-208; 
Carravetta 1988). What Luperini and the propounders of the “(neo)modernism of 
resistance” will not bear is the fact that some have come to grips with and 
accepted the decline and disappearance of the great idols and immutable values of 
the post-Renaissance, or, more pointedly, the grand nineteenth-century political 
and aesthetic “revolutionary” ideals. And so they crank up their worn out 
industrial-revolution locomotives in an attempt to regain it is not known what 
sort of materialist Eden. Having assessed that there have been incredible shifts on 
the geopolitical map, especially in 1989, and that the international picture is all 
in uncertain flux, Luperini says: “In some parts of the world — and to some 
degree in Italy also, with the student struggles — the masses have hit the streets 
and started reopening the processes of history” (6). As if history ever stood still! 
and this were true of the whole Italy, where the only student sit-ins concerned a 
vacuous proposal to “partly privatize” the universities and where the only 
manifestations worthy of the name took place only during the Gulf War 
(Luperini’s essay was written before that nefarious event). To speak of “mass 
protests” taking place in the eastern European countries and to link that with a 
“reopening of the processes of history” betrays the belief in that overly abused 
eighteenth- and nineteenth-century conception of History as a fairly linear 
progress (of the “spirit”) for the emancipation and progress of all peoples which 
is one of the most perversely ideologized masternarratives in serious need of 
reconceptualization.? 


9 Here once again the bibliography is vast and thomy. As regards Italy, the majority of articles 
I have seen on this topic have appeared in Micromega, Filosofia, Iride, Il mulino, Critica 

sociale, Rinascita, and others. The problem to which I am alluding and which is worth repeating 
because I am writing in the context of Italian Studies in the United States, is that this kind of 
mentality typically will yield to the vicious logic whereby when we deal with those cultures 
existing in “underdeveloped” countries (or “underclassed” portions of a given nation) which 
have not had the two or three centuries of industrial revolution, middle class au pouvoir, avant- 
gardes and parliamentary politics, we are unwittingly tempted to assume a patronizing attitude, 
as if we could not abstain from imparting lessons, a little bit at a time, on everything, from how 
to invest capital (by buying them out first, or indebting them for decades), selling them our 


36 Peter Carravetta 


Concepts such as emancipation, manifest destiny, utopia, origins, 
perfection, eternity, history (in their Capitalized sense) are what are floating in 
disarray in the postmodern age. And not just in the smug sense of “floating 
signifiers,” but in the very real sense of their unstable semantic fields, which 
yields an even greater number of definitions on the subject than ever before 
recorded. To not want to deal with this unsettling situation is to bury one’s head 
in the sand, hoping thus the danger will go away. To conclude with the 
conservative misreading of the postmodern on the part of Luperini (and, mutatis 
mutandis, Jameson, Arac, Habermas, and all the romantic marxist-idealists 
waddling in contradiction and struggle at all costs): 


For those who believe still in the necessity to develop a materialist culture of 
transformation, the very crisis of Marxism can have a paradoxical positive effect: 
that of being able to begin from zero, from a situation which is no longer prejudicial, 
neither tainted nor compromised [poter ripartire da zero, da una situazione non pit 
pregiudicata, né inquinata o compromessa]. 

(Campo 6) 


If only it were possible! Actually, we always begin from two (two human 
beings, that is) over time: beginning again is beginning after a certain quantity, 
a given system, exists already. Or are we supposed to believe we can forget, 
erase our memories, our past, the common sociohistorical nightmares that 
determine our very being and our vital projects. Do we really still want to 
believe that Descartes’ metaphor of the tabula rasa is not a metaphor?!° And if 





products (typically what our own health agencies consider no longer marketable because toxic 
or what not), showing them how to run an election (provided they elect someone pro-America or 
pro-Western Europe), obviously make them read OUR books, all the way to bolstering tourism 
travel using our credit cards and plastic bags. These and other issues or better said, 
hermeneutically, Cultural Referents (such as colonialism, migrations, racism, sexuality, 
sexism, feminism, hereticism, contrived underdevelopment, national history, etc.) are hardly 
raised in contemporary Italian writings on the modern-postmodern debate, perhaps because they 
are not considered “relevant” or at any rate seem to be extra-territorial: critics prefer to connect 
or confine the post-modern to the most superficial mass culture events, and never take it 
seriously as a radical, epochal moment to re-think everything. Thus the possible referents I 
listed are at best object of the occasional topic of argument of joumalists, opinion makers (even 
on national television) or of sociologists and politologists, but seldom appear in aesthetic, 
artistic, literary, philosophic discourse. This goes for the Turin hermeneuticians as for the 
Bologna phenomenologists, for the Neapolitan idealists as well as for the letterati of the Po 
valley. There seems to reign in the cultural landscape of Italy “principio degli anni novanta” a 
nearly doleful pax intellectualis, a diffuse genteel acknowledgement of other critical views 

which are then just as deferentially ignored: real debates are a thing of the past, and Pasolini 
appears ever closer to Giordano Bruno than to Umberto Eco. Despite its verve, Luperini’s 
neoleftism is no exception. This state of affairs is worthy of serious reflection. 

10 The temptation to begin at point “zero,” at the very “beginning” and proceed as if what has 

happened in between is epistemologically discountable, or can be put in parenthesis, so to 
speak, has been a theoretical thorn on the side of révolutionary thinking. Pareyson, Vattimo 


Postmodern Chronicles 37 


not, why do these critics elsewhere write against phenomenology, which if 
nothing else at least posited — consciously, that is to say, experimentally — 
the possibility of pure essences, of mental states devoid of both inner and outer 
heterogeneous elements?!! Or why would they be, on another front, against 
Anglo-American analytic philosophers of language, who pursue their meandering 
abstractions on self and truth and valid claims by stipulating a mind in a jar with 
two eyes staring fixedly in a room where other people, totally ignoring this 
monstrosity, discuss the use of sentences such as “I like Jane” and “I cannot feel 
your toothache.”!2 

The essays contained in this issue of Campo all rehash positions from the 
early eighties. Most of them are emblematic of how that same diabolical logic of 





and the “Turin school” hermeneuticians have constantly written against the dangers of false 
nostalgia and the myths of origins. This bears directly upon the critic’s value of the idea of 
tradition, which is usually invoked equally (though with very different premises or motivations) 
by formalist philologists, marxists, historicists and hermeneuticians alike. The following, 
early critique of the left’s notion of tradition and revolution by Pareyson is, to my mind, worthy 
of further reflection even today: “Tradition is the opposite of revolution not because it 
counterfoists against it conservation, but precisely because the regeneration which it requires is 
of a totally different nature than that propounded by revolution, as the first has an ontological 
and originary character, the second has a temporal and secondary character. Above all, 
revolution intends to begin at the beginning, whereas tradition is a continuous recovery of the 
origin; the true object of the revolutionary ideal is the past as such, whereas with tradition the 
object is being; what revolution desires is a new beginning in time, whereas tradition retums to 
that origin from which alone it can derive a regeneration of time” (Verita 49). One of the 
unsettling and to all purposes unresolved paradoxes of the left has been its necessity to posit an 
ideal in order to organize a set or a system (a society, a labor force, the rhetoric of an argument) 
while simultaneously firm in both, condemning idealism and grounding all claims on concrete, 
empirical reality. But the set or system of the premise is itself an idealization, as an idealization 
is the metalanguage of empiricism. In its attempt to restore an original order, marxism has had 
to project the perfect order into a future, appealing to extra-historical, above-the-individual 
categories of legitimation, yielding a utopia because the future can only exist in (we might say, 
it is an essential category of) time, not in space (topos). For an ontological critique of the 
atemporal, etemalizing beginning of emancipatory ideals, see Vattimo (Le avventure 151-72) 
and the observations on Carchia, below; for an epistemological critique, see Lyotard (The 
Postmodern Condition). The demise of the revolutionary ideal in the West is part and parcel of 
the decline of the Left, whose crisis of its temporal categories is a salient point. For 
representative critiques of this political/philosophical situation in the late seventies and early 
eighties in Italy, see Dal Lago (The End) and Marramao (Potere). 

11 It is unfortunate that the authors who publish in Campo, and Allegoria never broach the long 
debated, though still unresolved linkages between Marxism and phenomenology. However, it is 
significant that one of Italy’s most important philosophers of the post-World War II period, 
Enzo Paci, who had dedicated many works to both in terms of his key notion of “relation,” is 
being republished by Bompiani and is taken up more frequently in the journal AUT AUT. 

12 Besides the attacks against other “schools” I have in mind also the recurring attempts by 
certain literary critics to establish a (belated) theoretical alliance with structuralism (the Segre 
and Agosti versions), or bend deconstruction (the de Man and Culler versions, not the Dervidian 
one) to become social criticism, and the rather uninspired reading of Benjamin’s notion of 
allegory, present first in L’ombra da’ Argo and now in Allegoria. 


38 Peter Carravetta 


contradiction and idealizing dialectic which has, in the tracks of Habermas (16), 
legitimated the notion that the postmodern is conservative, is now insidiously at 
work in their own post-Berlin Wall Fall neoconservative cultural projects, taking 
the guise of a call to vague (and inevitably idealist) cultural re-constructions, 
invitations to further avant-gardist developments (11), conveniently attacking 
Philip Johnson (12), ever critical of Derrida, and nearly obsessive about the fact 
that a “literary text” is a concrete reality (not just “mere” signifiers that make no 
sense “hors de texte,” in short), bearer of a meaning which can — and must — 
be differentiated from that of a compact disc, a telenovela or a phone book. It is 
hard to disagree on this last point, and if nothing else they shore up the diffusion 
of deconstructionism, which in Italy never took hold as it did in the United 
States; besides, it is salutary to remind the reader that a text is also, and perhaps 
primarily, a social construct. Yet a compelling confrontation between Marxism 
and deconstruction has yet to be seen.!3 

There appears also a lack of sensitivity toward the un-projected, the non- 
classifiable, the unforeseeable situations which may create meaning, which can 
arise from a myriad of situations and/or be elicited by objects which strike the 
critical (the aesthetic, the ethic) consciousness of the common reader or viewer. 
Are not these relevant to the understanding of literature, the visual arts? to their 
social and political dislocation? In the lives of many of us the value of a printed 
word in a phone book, or on a television screen, may hold more truth and more 
meaning than many a passage from Canonical authors one may care to read on 
the way to work. If the postmodern reclaims the cruciality of the present, it is 
not in abeyance of some banal vitalism or hedonism, but in order to remind us 
that life, society are now, they do not exist solely in the future (Thou shalt!), 
nor exclusively in the past (you should have .. .!). True, it is how it gets 
“translated” into a written work that matters here. Yet to hold fast to an idea of a 
Literature, or better yet, to Great Literature, means believing in and working for 
a clearly defined social category, advocating distinctions of genre, quality, and so 
on which will not, cannot take into account what Western social life has 
become, with the myriad of metalanguages that intermingle, the unpredictable 
forms which appear daily, the compression of time, the hitherto unbelievablé 
retrieval capacities of the contemporary artist (whether a highschooler or a Nobel, 
prize winner), the fact that being avant-gardist (once emulated because justifiably ' 
against an eighteenth- or nineteenth-century notion of Tradition) does not 
distinguish anyone anymore because everyone can be one (and we have now 
plural, multilayered traditions), while the media is become a continuously 
running experimentation in mixing images, artificial ones too, and intrinsically 


13 I mean in the sense in which in the United States we have had works by Frank Lentricchia, in 
which deconstruction is read against the development of other leading currents in literary 
criticism, or Michael Ryan, who tackles the theoretical impact of deconstruction on marxism 
with interesting if arguable results. 


Postmodern Chronicles 39 


so.14 

If we reflect further on these positions, and bring to bear on our critical 
horizon some of the arguments of the American social and leftist critics, one 
gets the composite impression that the enemies of the postmodern are simply 
either too overwhelmed by the unmanageable quantity of messages circulating, 
of values being exchanged for hard currency and in disdain of purists and 
puritans, or else theirs is a critique which belies a professional and territorial 
anxiety about an orderly and predictable, and therefore unproblematic, reality: a 
reality which, in a way, is simply slipping away from them, yet it is not 
disappearing, not at all.!5 


2. Prodromes 


Let’s go back in time and pick up the story at its near inception. Discussion 
over what postmodernism or the postmodern is or is not began relatively late in 
Italy, when compared with the attention devoted to the word/concept in the 
Hispanic world (which goes back to the thirties), in the United States (the 
fifties), and then in France (the sixties).!® In Italy it began in the late seventies, 
with an article reference in a Boatto piece later reissued in Lo sguardo dal di fuori 
being a first conscious deployment of the word-concept. Depending on one’s 
overall point of view, the debate can be considered one rhyzomatic offshoot of 
the post-1968 syndrome, namely, the by now “official” end of the age of 
ideology or of a particular mode of cultural production. It can also be seen to 
reflect a deeper tectonic shift in the national attitude toward secularization, 
multinational capitalism, and the onslaught of global technology. More 
specifically, and emblematically, il dibattito sul postmoderno flares out on the 
heels of a series of intellectual and cultural events/debates which include a 
Heidegger and Nietzsche renaissance!? — which implied, basically, a reading 


14 In this perspective, Ihab Hassan’s pioneering The Dismemberment of Orpheus had already 
located and described the premises for the dissolution of the Modem: the “lyre without strings” 
of the contemporary artist is pointing to several distressing dead-ends: silence, aliterature, 
nothingness, cynical nihilism. Italian left criticism, as well as broad areas of the artistic and 
poetic realm, have been hesitant before these topics. For a concise and historically correct 
reconstruction of the relationship between intellectuals, class structure, and the cultural changes 
that have taken place in Italy in the post-WWII period, see David Forgas, “The! Italian 
Communist Party and Culture,” in Barariski and Lumly 97-114; see also, in this acute and useful 
collection of essays, those by Giulio Lepschy, “How Popular is Italian,” and Geoffrey Nowell- 
Smith, “Italy: Tradition, Backwardness and Modemity” at pp 63-75 and 50-62 respectively. 

15 See, besides the already mentioned anthologies by Arac and Foster, Bara riski and Lumly, 
Kaplan, Featherstone. 

16 See KGhler’s essay in Carravetta-Spedicato 1984, as well as New German Critique 1984, 
Featherstone, Subirats, Maldonado, Patella. 

17 Though generally acknowledged as being crucial, even at the molecular level, the socio- 


40 Peter Carravetta 


“through” the left in order to remove the left’s stigma (Lukacs, Adorno) off some 
audacious claims — and a pervasive “crisis of reason,”!® which made waves 
across different disciplines such as structuralism, history, semiotics, political 
theory, epistemology, exploding finally with the 1980 Venice Biennale. The 
atmosphere was ripe for the nth confrontation between the ancients and the 
modern, and it was again architecture — that hybrid field, or profession, or 
metaphor at the interface between the fine arts, big capital and the social project 
— that led the battle. It basically saw pitted against each other Portoghesi and 
the defenders of the Via novissima, and Bruno Zevi, the dean of Italian 
architects.!? The diatribe spilled into the dailies and the weeklies, and it became 
immediately apparent that the status of the word/concept was unstable: did it 
refer to a variation of Modernism? was it a new avant-garde? was it confined to 
the fine arts or could it be extended to the sciences and social studies as well? and 
what did philosophy have to say about it?” In the main, the reactions were shrill 
and sarcastic, and one could turn even to the pages of JI corriere della sera, 
Panorama and L’ espresso to ponder the assessments of the likes of Arbasino, 
Giuliani, Magris and others, who quickly billed it as a terminological fad, or the 
swan song of avant-gardism. Some, like Renato Barilli, interpreted it as a new 
cycle in a dynamic cultura! tension which went back to the end of the last 
century and which now, in the McLuhan universe of electronic media, was 
undergoing some radical shifts (Carravetta 1991b). Others, like Maurizio 
Calvesi, felt quite early on that postmodernism was not the latest avant-garde, 
but that, indeed, the postmodern was compelling art to come to grips with a 
totally different set of problems, above all that “high” art was no longer a 
tenable notion, the aesthetic was intruding everywhere, and art criticism was on 
the mend,”! indeed the center was gone for good. Learned articles appeared in the 
journal Aut Aut, focusing on the status of the image and the possibilities left 





history of this phenomenon has yet to be studied adequately. Some steps, however, have been 
taken. For Heidegger, see the recent issue of Archivio di filosofia edited by M. M. Olivetti, “La 
recezione italiana di Heidegger,” Padova, 1989; for Nietzsche, Ferraris 1990. 

18 See Gargani’s Introductions to his 1979 and 1985 anthologies. For a historical-critical 
exposition of the entire Gargani 1979, stressing the passage from a critique of epistemology to 
a critique of ontology, see Carravetta 1988. 

19 Besides various articles which appeared in art magazines at the time, and in particular in the 
May 1982 issue of Casabella, see Portoghesi 1979 and 1981, and Tafuri 1980. 

20 Let us recall that Lyotard’s La Condition postmoderne came out in 1979, and that Italian 

intellectuals in general are critically sensitive to what their cousins beyond the Alps say or do. 
A first important gathering on the postmoderm appeared in 1980 in AUT AUT, “Sull’immagine 
postmoderna,” with texts by, among others, Dal Lago on social stratification and subjection, 
Formenti on Lyotard’s scientific imaginary, Casella on Prigogine, and Agamben on the 
relationship between word and knowledge. 

21 Similar positions are held by Krauss, Russell, Burgin, Enrico Baj and others. Well before 
“Transavanguardia” and “Arte povera” come onto the scene, Alberto Boatto had perceived in Pop 
Art the final chapter in both avantgardism and modemism. 


Postmodern Chronicles 41 


open to any sort of “rationality.” The debate heightened in 1981 on the pages of 
Alfabeta (n. 22), which published, almost simultaneous with its appearance in 
English, Habermas’ famous “Modernity: an Unfinished Project,” spurring a 
series of articles in subsequent issues of the journal.22 When, in 1985, someone 
of the stature of a Gianni Vattimo titles a book The End of Modernity, writers 
critics and media hounds alike took serious notice, for either this was a suspect 
provocation, or else postmodernism was here to stay, and demanded further and 
deeper consideration. 


3. Early Protagonists 


a. Ferraris 

Here I would like to take up some other representative interlocutors. The young 
philosopher Maurizio Ferraris began his career by engaging in close readings of 
the French maitres da penser of the seventies, while addressing the status of 
philosophy, and specifically of Modern rationality. Though one might find 
several points to critique in his assessment of the postmodern condition — 
most noticeably his early (1980, now in 1983) characterization of the 
postmodern as the “ironic counter-effect of the dominant drama of modernity” — 
Ferraris makes a convincing case, in part following his teacher Vattimo, for a 
non-foundational, degrounded (sfondata) aesthetic which is linked to the rise of 
the twentieth-century metropolis: 


It is precisely in the metropolis as an omnicomprehensive ecumenism which is causa 
sui and index sui, [and which cannot be] counterfoisted against the Grund of the earth 
and of being, nor can it be legitimated retrospectively as polis of the political 
practices of History and Spirit, that we witness the conjoined decline of the subject 
and of technology, the loss of the origin and the conscious realization of repetition. 
(Tracce 91). 2 


22 The short essays published during this period deserve a close rereading. They will be referred 
to in a more focused context in the next instalment of these chronicles. 

23 For a more thorough explication of the relationship between urbanism and the social and 
philosophical problems it has raised, see Maldonado 67-84. His “conclusion,” however, is 
symptomatically mired in a “What’s to be done” paralysis of theory, as we will see further down: 
“A character in Dostoievsky’s Notes from the Underground described Petersburg as ‘the most 
abstract and premeditated city on the globe,’ adding immediately ‘cities in fact can be divided 
into premeditated and non-premeditated.’ Personally I feel that negative experiences have been 
registered in both camps, the premeditated and the unpremeditated one, but there have been 
positive instances also, and for both. We must therefore find a planning method [metodo di 
progettazione] which is at one and the same time premeditation and non premeditation” (84). 
But it is precisely the obsession with method that lurks at the heart of the crisis of modemity. 
For a critique see Lyotard 1984, Gargani 1979, the already mentioned Feyerabend, Jacobitti. For 
a critique of the notion of “planning” see Zanini and Ardigo. 


42 Peter Carravetta 


We can agree with this assessment, except for the part about technology, which 
if anything has actually multiplied its power and penetration in every nook and 
cranny of social life. The quote can be corroborated with references to his other 
writings and essays, which in one case take up Benjamin’s cautioning to accept 
metropolitican culture strategically — in this, it is worth remarking, both 
Benjamin and Heidegger are still thinkers of the polis. Elsewhere, he adopts the 
notions of repetition and simulacre as found in Klossowski, Deleuze and 
Baudrillard. But in the background there emerges Lyotard’s view of the Modern 
as the age of the grand legitimizing metanarratives gone awry and the 
postmodern as the uncontested dominion of cybernetics, the immaterial, local 
positives and the speech of contention and power. Through this problematic 
meshing, Ferraris finds confirmed the thesis whereby in the postmodern epoch 
nomadism and nihilism coincide, and that as a result the “sense” of our age is 
that there are no longer any grand values to shoot for . . . pun intended. 

Ferraris also explored the decline, both reported and desired, of the “school of 
suspicion”2> — Marx, Nietzsche and Freud, theorized by Paul Ricoeur — 
because its “unmasking” strategy is too “metaphysical,” favoring in its stead an 
emerging hermeneutics of the trace (Derrida) which focuses on the distance and 
the difference between our interpretation and the objects it claims to explain, or, 
said otherwise, on the constitutive impossibility of carrying out a project such 
as Gadamer’s, which is reconstructive and integrative and therefore predicated 
upon a potential but nevertheless immediate availability of tradition, sense and 
value. If to this line-up we add, as Ferraris proceeds to do in his Storia 
dell’ ermeneutica, Rorty’s assessment of present day continental philosophy as a 
“kind of writing,” a view which generalizes perhaps excessively about a growing 
awareness in recent times with the means of exposition, the resulting 
postmodern picture would then be characterized by linguistic (and therefore, we 
might point out, semiotic, iconographic) paroxysm, and of which some telling 
examples are “the archaeology of the frivolous,” the theological and 
anthropological pathos of non-sense, non-foundation, and the parodic nature of 
all referential discourse. The postmodern, in short, is the age of the double-bind. 

Ferraris certainly pinpoints some crucial interstices in the philosophical 
debate of the early to mid-eighties. Yet it can be critiqued on at least two fronts. 
One is its ultimately descriptive nature of a series of problems which are never 
translated into a new or at any rate different praxis of doing philosophy in this 
heterogeneous if not altogether confusing horizon, keeping to that style and 
format which since the dawn of Modernity has characterized philosophese as a 
disciplined writing attitude. The second is his wholesale acceptance of parody — 


24 For a fuller exposition, see Ferraris 1984:81-101, and Carravetta 1991a:191-212. 
25 See his article “Invecchiamento della ‘scuola del sospetto’” in Vattimo-Rovatti 1983:120- 
36. 


Postmodern Chronicles 43 


already critiqued by Vattimo in his 1978 essay on Derrida and Deleuze — 
without inquiring further into the linguistic and rhetorical structures of this 
trope. I have elsewhere argued for an understanding of parody as a strategy which, 
together with irony, is quintessentially modernist and representative of avant- 
gardist practices;”° its persistence on the contemporary arena, in criticism as in 
literature, in the visual arts as in cinema, ought not to be seen as a peculiarity of 
the postmodem, as this typically adds to the confusion about what the 
postmodern is or could be. 


b. Carchia 

Gianni Carchia asks the question from a different vantage point. Carchia locates 
in the notion of Modernita some intriguing tensions which belie any conception 
of the postmodern. He finds that what stands above (or below) all our cultural 
experiences is the ineradicable conflict (present especially through the Modern 
period) with the temporality of existence, ultimately with death. According to 
Carchia, if we reflect upon the protoromantic aesthetic project, which absorbed 
the full impact of the French Revolution and its sociohistorical aftermath, we 
observe a deep separation between the lines followed by aesthetic consciousness, 
and the lines of social organization which embraced the capitalist mode of 
production and its techno-industrial structure. He writes: 


We can hypothesize the paradoxical affirmation whereby it was art, and not 
technology [la technical, which elected itself to be the true, complete consciousness 
of the new and of modemity. Art accepted the challenge of technology, and decided to 
become its full integral realization. But that is immediately related to the deep 
metaphysical structure of the “New”: the new is the anticipated construction of death, 
freed from its organic and natural meaning, in short, the construction of the 
transitory and the ephemeral. 27 

(La legittimazione 117) 


It is not a case of the “mimesis of death” as we would encounter it in the archaic 
period, where the ritual of death rationalizes the codes of civil coexistence, but a 
fabrication, a conscious production, a compulsion for accumulation which, 
perhaps like hoarding in a psychoanalytic perspective, is intrinsically related to 
death. In terms of technology, this evidences an underlying ambiguity. The 
radical transitoriness of life which technology unveils is at the same time attuned 
and finalized to the ends of instrumental reason. To put it bluntly, technology 
wants to colonize the very realm of death, and so it fosters and sponsors the 


26 Carravetta 1991a, especially 133-70. 

27 Carchia has been a close reader not only of Hegel, but of Bachofen and Gehlen as well. He has 
developed some of his ideas through writings on the (philosophical) origins of the novel 
(1983), on painting and the recovery of the mythical (1987), and on the language of the 
unsayable (1990). 


44 Peter Carravetta 


(production of) images — through television, cinema, the press — and the 
weapons — think of space race, nuclear build-up, contrived wars —to carry out 
this program. This state of affairs requires that we speak of the inner dynamic of 
the inframing, the Gestell, in conjunction with its political-bureaucratic 
legitimation. As it edges into the mid to late twentieth century, 
technology/technocracy announces its own decline, sells its symptoms and 
symbols and cultural manifestations, and is reborn from this dying, troping 
incessantly, we might say, in Italian, “una morte perennemente annunciata.” As 
such it becomes progressively more aggressive, a force whose destructive 
nihilism is constantly dis-possessing, trans-propriating whatever it relates to.”8 
The discourse thus far requires a preliminary assessment and perhaps some 
responses. The logic which underlies the sociological and the economic 
explanation of this predicament cannot be employed to make sense of the 
route(s) taken by modernist art. The culture of decadence, the transfiguration of 
the aesthetic image, the obsession with death, eternity, and consciousness — 
themes which are dominant in the works of D’Annunzio, Pirandello, Svevo, as 
well as Musil, Joyce, Kafka, Hoffman, Lawrence, Gide and so on — and the 
paroxystic and explosive derangement of the senses, the material techniques of 
expression, the splintering and destruction of all values, God included — which 
we find in Baudelaire, Mallarmé, Rimbaud, Nietzsche — in sum, the aesthetic as 
the embodiment of beauty, all are but several different ways in which art had 
explored and then renounced and then as often even suggested to keep a certain 
distance from a logic which is constantly announcing its own demise, 
threatening to die immediately, to the point of lying about it. From the 
sociological and political side, the modernist’s obsession with the new — think 
of Pound’s “make it new” — has not spared intellectual discourse either, 
understandably so, we might add, as we have seen many prophetic 
announcements of ends coming from Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Gehlen’s post- 
histoire, Marinetti’s manifestoes, and so on; and of course their counterparts, 
beginnings (or “revolutions”), such as Kant’s, Darwin’s, together with a whole 
menu of “births” of “disciplines,” from chemistry to electricity to archeology to 
historiography to psychiatry. From the point of view of aesthetics, then, it can 
be said that modern art has indeed seriously dealt with the anticipation of death 
— think of illness as a persistent metaphor from Romanticism onwards, or the 
rehabilitation of and fascination with ruins, the mystery and connected esoteric 
discourse of the Orient and the pseudotruths it unfortunately spawned, or even 
the scientific false-starts of the end of the nineteenth century which filter into 


28 As to whether this can be perceived in Italian fiction or poetry of the seventies and eighties, 
it is a task for Italianists to deal with, and perhaps urgently. My experience with poetry, 
however, reveals that these issues have been only marginally treated, unless one looks at 
certain peculiar “styles” or “forms” as allegories of these problems. This will be picked up 
elsewhere. 


Postmodern Chronicles 45 


criticism, fiction and the visual arts (Taine, Zola, the Impressionists). These 
translate into forces we perceive as living metaphors for capital gains, so to 
speak, for they foster exchange only in order to accumulate, to deprive, pre-load 
the gun, buy out ahead of time, take a lien on future courses of action, 
suggesting conceptualities intrinsically appropriative, self-centering at other 
times, now self-regulating and self-reproducing, even as technology develops 
grids and networks over larger and larger portions of the globe. . . 

In this troubled and often lugubrious panorama, Carchia reads the 
postmodern as no longer endowed with any aura or utopistic promise and as 
basically a continuation of the dialectic of avant-garde versus tradition. The post- 
avant-garde in art, he writes, is essentially a different form of the ante, of the 
avant of yesteryear: in the continuum of Modernity, these temporal references are 
better understood as “‘spatial metaphors” (La legittimazione 119). In this light, 
his critique of the notion of “classic” as being at one and the same time 
theoretically aporetic and practically a founding force in art (II mito in pittura 45- 
68; 103-28), and his proposal to explore the relationship between myth and form 
as a path toward an understanding of the soul, of the very logos, seem to be 
sensitive to and respond to a variety of present-day cultural manifestations (La 
retorica, chs. 4-5). Certainly they are worth exploring further. 


4. Reactions of the Moderns 


But not everyone was willing to suddenly look at the past from the vantage 
point of a postmodernity which denied any maior theory, which questioned all 
forms of critical and philosophical thinking. The discussion on the postmodern 
in Italy has in part forced a re-evalutation of the Modern epoch and of its yet to 
be developed potentialities, so that to many critics the postmodern was, and is, 
no more than an overwrought though successful (from the point of view of 
media reception) terminological squabble. Let us recall that until very recently 
the Italian term modernismo denoted a social and intellectual movement at the 
beginning of the century which vied for an experimentalism against the 
contending forces of the recently self-enthroned Crocean idealism, on the one 
hand, and a movement which was squelched by the encyclical Pascendi dominici 
gregis of 1907 and eventually disappeared with the onslaught of World War I.” 
When, in 1979, Algo Gargani published his anthology Crisi della ragione, it 
became more or less established that the great turning point in the history of the 
modern epoch came during the last quarter of the nineteenth century. This is 
problematic, because different reactions to the possibility of a postmodern epoch 
could make leverage upon the many masks and dead-ends of Modernity to 


29 As Semerari recently argued in his book Novecento filosofico italiano, it has unjustly been 
ignored by philosophical historiography. But that, too, is another story to be (re)told. 


46 Peter Carravetta 


rearrange legitimizations and, though alert to change, speak in favor of 
substantial changes, especially with references to the sciences (albeit not in 
terms of anything as radical as Nietzsche, Heidegger, Foucault and Lyotard have 
been prospecting). All, in short, was not lost. Theorizer of the neo-avant-gardes 
and of the supremacy of the Signifier, Barilli, for instance, quickly re-interprets 
the entire parabola of the historical avant-gardes as being postmodern, taking full 
advantage of an epochal periodization sketched by Arnold Toynbee whereby the 
Modern ends somewhere around 1875.°° For Remo Bodei, there are still many 
untold riches buried deep in the fibers of the Modern, which he calls “an 
unsaturated tradition” capable of producing yet atopies, non-places of memory, a 
healthy lowering of expectations, and a de-synchronization of everything that 
claimed to be continuous and parallel to anything else. We might try to calibrate 
again our gauges, Bodei seems to suggest, but there is no end yet to the 
possibilities of development of modern rationality.*! 

The defence of the Modern came on strong and from all sides. Tomas 
Maldonado, in his J] futuro della modernita, undertakes, among other things, to 
reconstruct the history of the word/concept “modern” (173-85). Modernus, we 
learn, derives from modo, which means “now.” Modo in turn is an adverb derived 
from the substantive modus, which means “measure,” in an absolute sense, that 
is, measure as a goal which implicitly cannot be outdone, and thus it picks up 
the sense of “rule,” “norm,” “prescription.” Originally, then, it had the semantic 
sense of “staying within the norm,” while “right now” turned out to imply 
“staying within the time frame of the present.”22 However, the combination of 


30 Barilli 1981 and 1984. It is interesting to note that Tra presenza e assenza, whose first 
edition came out in 1974, leaned upon the experiences and aftermath of the Gruppo 63, and 
posited two hypotheses: the attainment in contemporary culture of a generalized, “normalized” 
ecstasies, and the poetics of renunciation to any sort of action. For, since every act, every 
possible course of action had already been done, every move was bound to be a “duplicate.” With 
this went the possibility that, much like the painting [il quadro] was lost in the plastic arts, so 
in literature gone was the book. The first two hypotheses can still be fruitfully developed (for 
instance, in terms of the problem of duplication and falsification; see on this Della Vigna), the 
last hypothesis less so: the book is surviving, doomsayers of the techtronic age 
notwithstanding. When he republished the book in 1981, Barilli thought it opportune to 
subtitle it: “due ipotesi per l’eta postmodema.” 

31 See Bodei’s articles in Gargani 1979:199-240 and Mari 1987:32-43, as well as his book 
Scomposizioni 211-48. 

32 A present which, since it can only accept and signify a specific, coded precedent, will 
eventually interpret tradition as the sum total of all the messages it has passed on from year to 
year. This has fueled the argument (historically dominant) that some traditions are superior or 
better than others on the strength of their years or, I should say, weight of books produced! For 
a critique of the idea of tradition as quantity and accumulation in the age of mass media, see Nora 
and Mince. For an early critique of Modem Reason as intrinsically instrumental, see Adorno and 
Horkheimer, and Horkheimer 1974. Yet a full-fledged auto-critique of both, the ontological and 
epistemological premises, which is open to integrative suggestions from other areas of 
discourse (in plain English, from other philosophies, or currents) has not yet really taken place. 


Postmodern Chronicles 47 


the two senses, and the later development of the affix -ernus (on the basis of the 
paradigm for hodiernus, hesternus), dilate the semantic field such that to the 
descriptive sense is added a critical one: modern is what is proper now. 
Historically, then, we always had a modern versus an ancient or previous time or 
age: the age of Charlemagne is defined as saeculum modernum (179). When 
modernitas appears, in the eleventh century, it stood for an “age that must be 
overcome,” and with the rinascita, the Modern found its autonomy, temporalness 
(i.e.: the present) and the categorical difference vis-a-vis the ancient or classical 
world. No need to remind anyone here of the conceptual revolution brought 
about by Descartes’s geometric time. The various movements, the different 
renaissances within the modern epoch are already pre-disposed to actualize once 
again, over and over within an ever-changing right-now, this Jetz-Zeit as 
Benjamin called it, this fundamental dialectic. Developing in part his earlier 
work, La speranza progettuale (1970), in II futuro della modernita Maldonado 
takes cognizance of all the dissymmetries imaginable of the twentieth century, 
and speaks in favor of an “open” and more “humble” rationality, one attuned to 
function and means rather than objects and ends. Yet, in the end, as we just saw, 
this kind of “openness” harks to that most diabolical capacity of Modern 
rationality to pre-empt the future, to fore-see all upcoming moves, as we read in 
Carchia’s analysis of the turn-of-the-century, and as we can see if we ponder, for 
a moment, on the rise and development of code semiotics. Attuned to systems 
theory, information exchange processes, and artificial intelligence, unlimited 
semiosis had reached such a level of sophistication by 1975 that all possible 
“future” combinations of messages in any code could be predicted, verified and 
legitimated. 33 In the end, Maidonado too is comfortable with the numerous 
pathways still available to the modern critic, as when he writes: 


There is talk of a “post” but, more often than not, it is a “pre” which people have in 
mind. “Post” is now presented as a magic prefix through which our society tries to 
persuade itself (and us) that is has an “after,” that is to say, a future.... 





There are however some encouraging exceptions: in aesthetics, Strano; within the left, Pietro 
Barcellona and Adelino Zanini; and in sociology, Achille Ardigd and Gian Paolo Prandstraller. 
These issues will be taken up in the forthcoming continuation to this piece. 

33 Eco’s A Theory of Semiotics remains the Modem(ist) monument to the endless possibilities 

of sign production and exchange, predicated upon a binary logic of equal/identical 
correspondences, isometries, algebraic analegies and a whole armament of dichotomous 
conceptual couples which make it the metalanguage par excellence. Those who subscribe to a 
semiotics of experience overlook the fact that they are talking about a theory of signs of 
experience (inevitably of something else): the dislocation along the three prepositions suggest 
that it is no closer to reality than Russian formalism, French structuralism or Luck4csian 
marxism ever was. The real value of a semiotics of experience resides perhaps in its broadening 
the range of topics, of Cultural Referents present within the work of art, which spurs untried 
intellectual interactions and creation of meaning, and not in the truth-value of theory or the 
method adopted. 


48 Peter Carravetta 
(Il futuro della modernita 16) 


This is coherent with the thesis that many alleged postmodernist —for example, 
the nostalgic, the avantgardists, the romantics, the conservatives — indeed think 
of a “pre” when they capitalize on the “post.” And undoubtably the issue of the 
future has many people in theoretical anxiety over the “what’s next” and “what 
to expect” we spontaneously predict/predicate through our very grammatical 
habits. Yet I feel he entirely sidesteps the issue when he continues: 


In brief, [the “post” buzz-words] are not grounded in a tried and true theory, at least 
not in a theory which one might want to consider scientific. 
(Il futuro della modernita 16) 


This is precisely the point of the postmodern, at least one of its most telling 
faces: for it is the legitimacy of scientific theories as irrefutable paradigms for 
social and aesthetic inquiry which has been called into question, so that to 
champion a “postmodern theory” means really no more than asking for an 
editorial tab, a conventional tag, identification with a specific group of 
“intellectuals,” but that does not change the fact that it is literally impossible to 
come up with general theories that explain any one single phenomenon (let 
alone such complexes as society, literature, aesthetics, criticism, national 
language), and even more so when these attempt to find legitimation in scientific 
fields and procedures.*4 In this sense, Maldonado follows Habermas, and is 
entirely deaf to Lyotard’s sound explication, in The Postmodern Condition, that 
postmodernity is the age when all grand explanations, all Theories, or 
Metanarratives as he calls them, have no leg to stand on.*> One is reminded here 
of how Lyotard’s position finds confirmation in some works in epistemology — 
for instance, by Feyerabend — or feminism —like Sandra Harding’s — or even 
from the New Historicists, who in their heterogeneity still agree on the 
cruciality of the microstory while shunning the grand paradigms. 


5. Other Discussions 


In the anthology edited by Giovanni Mari, Moderno e postmoderno; soggetto 
tempo sapere nella societa attuale, most of the articles are actually a call to arms 
to reconsider the heritage of the modern, beginning with Paolo Rossi’s scathing 
attack at the wholesale identification of modernity with science and technology, 


34 For an acute critical synthesis of the developments of modem scientific thinking in relation 
to postmodemity, see the article by Jacobitti “Taking Humanism Seriously.” 

35 Lyotard’s book came out in Italian translation in 1981. It set the stage for a debate based on 
the opposing conceptions between the French thinker and Jiirgen Habermas, though these 
discussions did not last as long as they did in England and the United States. 


Postmodern Chronicles 49 


or the fact that the greatest problem in metaphysics is that of eternal truths or of 
subjectivity (14-31).36 Rossi states that even a cursory glance at what took place 
during the fourteenth and seventeenth centuries should convince anyone that back 
then the problems, fears and hopes were framed in more or less the same 
language. However, he adds —echoing in part other philosophers in this 
anthology such as Livio Sichirollo, Biagio di Giovanni, and Francesco Adorno 
— that against those who pin the so-called postmodern chaos on the failure or 
need to dethrone science and technology, what we need is not less but more 
science, not less but more rationality, and, dulcis in fundo, that we cannot take 
mass media fads too seriously. It sounds like an ivory-tower rationalist-liberalist 
proclamation secure of its values and defiant at the prospect that the scattered 
storms may take down the Bastille, seemingly unconcerned with the fact that 
society is made up of individuals whose mind sets are framed early on by what 
takes place outside the classroom or the library, and who support an ideology 
which, still imbued with the Bildung theory of individual erudition, never 
questions the genealogy of this aristocratic model or at least its more historically 
recent catastrophes when approached through our primary and secondary 
schools.?7 

Similar analyses and “‘defenses” of the Modern(ist) mind set came from the 
critics gathered in another anthology titled Metamorfosi del moderno. Domenico 
Losurdo, for instance, demonstrates how the unnecessary schematic 
counterposition, modern-postmodern, risks plunging us into confusion or make 
us oblivious to certain dynamics which interact in the very fibers of Modernity. 
For instance, we tend to forget how many of Nietzsche’s ideas — typically 
hailed as the first postmodern author*® — are deeply rooted in and complicitous 
with an aristocratic liberalism which still harbors grand values of primacy, 
selectivity, hierarchy, inevitable class domination, excellence.*? Very 


36 In the debate on the main problems in metaphysics, there emerge indeed those of eternal 
truth and subjectivity. Close in this issue to Carlo Augusto Viano, Rossi is careful to distance 
himself from the views of the hermeneuticists, the “vattimiani” in particular, as well as those of 
the (neo)left. For a response, centered on the question of history, see Marramao 1989. 

37 Less “anxious” responses to the claims of the dissolution of scientific thought have come 
from Geymonat and Giorello, who have also been directly involved in the proper assessment of 
the status of science and knowledge through important editorial projects concerning 
encyclopedias and textbooks. 

38 “Philosophical postmodemity is born to Nietzsche’s work,” in Vattimo 1985, quoted by 
Losurdo (114). 

39 This raises the specter that we may have to admit to what the market and the avatars of free 
competition have been preaching, legislating, and implementing all along. Nietzsche is the 
paradoxical author who sounded the bell on the unrealistic ideological schemes of religion, 
socialism and democracy. And predictably he has been made into this or that “monster.” In some 
cases, critics remind us of how much he is rooted into the Enlightenment-Romantic ideologies 
of his age. Losurdo writes: “To conclude, neither Hegel and Marx on the one hand (the “myth” of 
history as progress), nor Nietzsche on the other, point to a totalizing modemity and a 


50 Peter Carravetta 


traditionalist, and representative of the academic response to the issue, is 
Pasquale Salvucci’s conclusion, in his essay “Quale filosofia nel postmoderno”: 


I am convinced that to consider the present-day shattering and undeniable 
heterogeneity of languages as an unsurmountable obstacle means, in the last 
analysis, to renounce philosophy, whose task remains, and cannot not be, the 
universal, the search for that which is true for all and for each and which, as such, can 
be absolutely communicated.” 

(Metamorfosi 86) 


Let us, then, turn to philosophy, but not, absolutely, in terms of universals, or 
what applies to each and everyone on the globe: that was a scientific principle, 
which worked for a while — three centuries more or less —but philosophy 
ought finally to liberate itself from its underprivileged status as ancilla scientiae. 


6. By Way of Introducing the Next Instalment .. . 


One might reasonably ask, at this juncture: where, in all of this, is Italy? Italian 
culture and society? In other words, other than the fact that we summarized and 
partly critiqued the main tenets of some representative Italian spokespersons on 
the question of postmodernity, are there any analyses, studies, reflections on the 
issue which bear directly on actual and/or past social and cultural situations of 
the geopolitical reality called Italy in the 1980s? The question is neither moot 
nor provocatory. The critics we discussed in part give away where the real 
problem lies: each approaches the theme from within his own field, a 
professional necessity, no doubt. Thus the discourses — that is, the texts, the 
ideas, which circulate in those disciplines — are the ones we mentioned all 





detotalizing postmodemity. In the first two totality is above all the construction of the 
universal concept of man under which every single individual must be subsumed, e concretely 
so, according to Marx’s position in particular. The detotalization wrought by Nietzsche, 
however, is above all a deconstruction of the universal concept of man (it makes no longer 
sense to speak of progress insofar as there no longer exists a unitary subject of such a progress). 
And yet while the universals of humanity and of the progress of humanity are destroyed, 
[Nietzsche’s] anthropological nominalism grounds itself by making recourse to universal which 
not only are more totalizing ("virtue” and the “great economy of the Whole"), they are also 
decidedly more mystifying, given that the greatest majority of people cannot see itself living 
up to those ideals” (140). And he concludes: “The paradox is that the jacobeanism and 
rousseauism which Constant liquidated as ‘ancient’ are now twined into a common continuous 
line with Hegel and Marx and disposed of as ‘modem.”” This is an acute, if astute, observation, 
although I would have to add that Nietzsche’s “nominalism” applies mostly to the pre- 
Zarathustra period, and not to his later tum to genealogy, to a self-referential acceptance of the 
eternal return of the same, and in the belief in an aesthetic-existential dimension to the life of 
the individual persona which predates or is more fundamental than the constitution (hierarchy or 
not) of the social concept of individual. See Carravetta 1991a:13-76. 


Postmodern Chronicles Si 


along. If we look around, the scenario is not encouraging. Books and journals in 
sociology, political theory, and the various histories (of philosophy, of 
criticism, of “la patria”) either do not even mention the term, or else merely 
record its appearance. Literary experts and commentators have been very 
responsive on the issue of postmodernism only insofar as certain cultural events 
did not fit any “traditional” schemes; so why not throw them into the garbage 
dumper of postmodernity: Eco’s and Calvino’s novels, but also Madonna 
concerts, designer Valentino self-celebrating retrospective in Rome, May 1991, 
telenovelas, television’s Blob, and Bret Eston Ellis. But only from atop the 
stump of “popular” or, better, “massmedialized” book reviewing and 
presentations in dailies, exhibits, opening nights, never from the marble thrones 
of academia. In fact, as concerns literature, if we exclude Luperini and his Ombra 
d’ Argo and now Allegoria, one is hard pressed to find, after 1987-88, an article 
on postmodernism or the postmodern condition in traditional or at any rate 
established literary journals such as Lingua e stile, Misure critiche, Autografo, Il 
verri, or any academic periodical which deals with pre-twentieth-century fields of 
study.4° 

After more than a decade of discussions, it is an appropriate task to try to 
sketch the major traits of this word/concept which seems to speak to the time of 
the world, to the age in its undefinable circumstances. So let us ask: if it exists, 
what does a postmodern literature, or visual art, look like? can it help in 
perceiving other historical periods in a different light? and by extension, what is 
the status of the critic, of the mediator, of the manipulator of unescapable 
metalanguage? what do we do if the boundaries we have come to know and 
accept between Signifier and Signified are no longer viable, or credible, cutoff 
points? what do we do if we accept the hypothesis that literature itself may be 
overdue for a reconceptualization? +! what happens if indeed we accept that what 
comes over the media is more important, more representative, more polycentric, 
cosmopolitan, elusive than any long established canon with its list of major and 
minor and preferably dead protagonists? 

Lurking undemeath is the problem of text and interpretation. Yet in order to 
even begin responding to these pressing questions, I think it is useful and 
appropriate to turn to the wisdom of political theorists, historians and 
sociologists, in order to first size up the external material context to a discussion 


40 Another death knell was sounded by Invemizzi in 1986 in the pages of L’ espresso with the 
article: “1986: é finito il postmoderno.” 

41 Although I have in mind break points such as, foremost, the invention of the printing press, 
I am at the same time trying to see other aspects behind the McLuhanian perspective as the only 
viable hypothesis; for instance, the deeper ontological problem that with the logarithmic 
increase in information availability, we may be communicating less, not more, or as Danilo 
Dolci once observed, “mass communication” is a misnomer: we may have more info, more data, 
but the masses are not communicating any more or better, indeed dispersion and further 
estrangement seem to be the result. 


52 Peter Carravetta 


on the fate of the text, both literary and philosophic, in contemporary Italian 
thought.42 


Queens College, CUNY 


Works Cited 


Adorno, T. and M. Horkheimer. Dialectic of the Enlightenment. New York: 
Continuum, 1986. 
Anderson, Benedict. Imagined Comunities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of 
Nationalism. London: Verso, 1990. 
Arac, Jonathan, ed. Postmodernism and Politics. Minneapolis: U Minnesota P, 1986. 
Ardigd, Achille. Per una sociologia oltre il post-moderno. Roma: Laterza, 1988. 
Aut Aut. “Sull’immagine postmoderma.” 179-90, (Sept.Dec. 1980): 179-90. 
Baj, Enrico. Cose dell’altro mondo. Milano: Eleuthera, 1990. 
Barariski, Zygmunt and R. Lumley, eds. Culture and Conflict in Postwar Italy. New 
York: St. Martins, 1990. 
Barbieri, Giuseppe and Paolo Vidali, eds. Metamorfosi. Dalla verita al senso della 
verita. Roma: Laterza, 1986. 
Barcellona, Pietro. J] capitale come puro spirito, Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1980a. 
. Il ritorno del legame sociale. Torino: Boringhieri,1990b. 
Barilli, Renato. “Technology and the Relationship between Modernity and 
Postmodernity.” Differentia 3-4 (1989): 25-38. 
. “Che bella sorpresa, il postmoderno @ nato un secolo fa.” La stampa 
“Tuttolibri.” 17 marzo, 1984. 
SSIES . Tra presenza e assenza. Due ipotesi per l’eta postmoderna. Milano: 
Bompiani, 1981. 
Bell, Daniel. The End of Ideology. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1988. 
. The Coming of Post-Industrial Society. New York: Basic Books, 1973. 
Boatto, Alberto. “Linguaggio e ascolto.” Alfabeta 65 (ottobre 1984): 15. 
. Lo sguardo dal di fuori. Bologna: Cappelli, 1982. 
Bodei, Remo. Scomposizioni. Forme dell’ individuo moderno. Torino: Einaudi, 1987. 
Bolaffi, Angelo and Massimo Ilardi, eds. Fine della politica? Roma: Editori Riuniti, 
1986. 
Burgin, Victor. The End of Art Theory. Criticism and Postmodernity. Atlantic 
Highlands (NJ): Humanities Press, 1986. 
Calibano, 7 [“La finzione necessaria; Il romanzo postmodermo americano”]. 
Bologna: Savelli, 1982. 
Campo, “numero progetto,” Milano-Lecce: 1990. Carchia, Gianni. Retorica del 
sublime. Roma: Laterza, 1990. 





42 | intend to continue this discussion in altra sede. 


Postmodern Chronicles 53 


. Il mito in pittura. Milano: Celuc, 1987. 

. La legittimazione dell’ arte. Napoli: Guida, 1982. 

Carravetta, Peter. Prefaces to the Diaphora. Rhetorics, Allegory,and the 
Interpretation of Postmodernity. W. Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1991a. 

. “On Barilli’s Theory of the Postmodern.” Ed. A. Tamburri and C. Ganelin. 

RLA: Romance Languages Annual. W. Lafayette: Purdue Research Foundation, 

Vol. 2, 1991b:107-13. 

. “Repositioning Interpretive Discourse: From the ‘Crisis of Reason’ to 
“Weak Thought.” Differentia 2 (Spring 1988): 83-126. 

Carravetta, P. and P. Spedicato, eds. Postmoderno e letteratura. Percorsi e visioni 
della critica in America. Milano: Bompiani, 1984. 

Casabella 46.480 (May 1982). 

Castro Florez, Fernando. “Contribucién al debate estético de la postmodernidad.” 
Meta. Revista de filosofia. Universidad Complutense, Madrid, 3 (enero 1988): 
15-28. 

Cazzaniga, G. M., D. Losurdo, D., and L. Sichirollo, eds. Metamorfosi del moderno. 
Urbino: Quattroventi, 1988. 

Cultural Critique,. Modernity and Modernism; Postmodernity and Postmodernism 5 
(Winter 1986-87). 

Dal Lago, Alessandro. “The End of the Revolutionary Imaginary.” Differentia 1 
(Spring 1986). 

. L’ordine infranto: Max Weber e i limiti del razionalismo. Milano: Unicopli, 
1983. 

Dalla Vigna, Pierre. L’opera d’arte nell’eta della falsificazione Milano: Mimesis, 
1987. 

D’Souza, Dinesh. “Illiberal Education.” Atlantic Monthly (March 1991):51-79. 

Eco, Umberto. “Postille a Jl nome della rosa.” Alfabeta 49 (giugno 1983): 19-22. 

. Trattato di semiotica generale. Milano: Bompiani, 1975. 

Featherstone, Mike, ed., Theory, Culture & Society, Special Issue on Postmodernism 
5.2-3 (1988). 

Ferraris, Maurizio. Nietzsche e la cultura del novecento. Milano: Bompiani, 1990. 

. Storia dell’ermeneutica. Milano: Bompiani, 1988. 

. La svolta testuale. Pavia: CLU, 1984. 
. Tracce. Nichilismo, moderno, postmoderno. Milano: Multhipla, 1983. 

Forni, Guglielmo. /1 superamento del moderno; frammenti di filosofia del quotidiano. 
Bologna: Cappelli, 1984. 

Gargani, Aldo. Sguardo e destino. Roma: Laterza, 1988. 

. Il sapere senza fondamenti. Torino: Einaudi, 1975. 

Gargani, Aldo, ed. La crisi del soggetto. Firenze: La casa usher, 1985. 

, ed. Crisi della ragione, Torino: Einaudi, 1979. 

Gunn, Giles. The Culture of Criticism and the Criticism of Culture. New York and 
Oxford: Oxford UP, 1987. 

Habermas, Jurgen. /1 discorso filosofico della modernita. Roma: Laterza, 1988. 

Hassan, Ihab. The Dismemberment of Orpheus; Toward a Postmodern Literature. 
Madison: U Wisconsin P, 1982. 

Heidegger, Martin. The Question Concerning Technology and Other Essays. New 
York: Harper, 1977. 


























54 Peter Carravetta 


Horkheimer, Max. Critique of Instrumental Reason. New York: Continuum, 1974. 
Invernizzi, G. “1986: @ finito il postmoderno.” L’ espresso (27 luglio, 1986): 86-92. 
Jacobitti, Edmund. “Taking Humanism Seriously: Science and Rhetoric in the Post- 
Modern World.” Differentia 34 (1989): 91-118. 
Jencks, Charles. The Language of Post-Modern Architecture. London: Academy 
Editions, 1978. 
Kaplan, Ann, ed. Postmodernism and Its Discontents. London:Verso, 1988. 
Klotz, Heinrich. The History of Postmodern Architecture. Cambridge: MIT P, 1984. 
Krauss, Rosalind E. The Originality of the Avant-Garde and Other Modernist Myths. 
Cambridge: MIT P, 1986. 
Kroker, Arthur and David Cook. The Postmodern Scene. Excre-mental Culture and 
Hyper-Aesthetics. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1986. 
Lentricchia, Frank. After the New Critcism. Chicago: U Chicago P, 1980. 
Losurdo, Domenico. “Nietzsche, il moderno e la tradizione liberale.” Cazzanica 115- 
40. 
Lyotard, Jean-Francois. The Postmodern Condition. Minneapolis: U Minnesota P, 
1984. 
. La pittura del segreto nell’epoca postmoderna, Baruchello. Milano: 
Feltrinelli, 1982. 
Luperini, Romano. “Tl tramonto del postmoderno. Campo (1980): 5-7. 
. “Ermeneutica e testo letterario.” L’ombra d’Argo 4.11-12 (1987): 16-30. 
. “Semantica e interpretazione.” L’ombra d’Argo, 3.9 (1986): 11-66. 
Maldonado, Tomas. // futuro della modernita. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1987. 
Mari, Giovanni, ed. Moderno postmoderno. Soggetto, tempo, sapere nella societa 
attuale. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1987. 
Marramao, Giacomo. “‘Idola’ del postmoderno.” Filosofia '87. Roma: Laterza, 1988. 
163-81 [Eng. trans. Differentia 3-4 (1989): 7-24]. 
. Potere e secolarizzazione. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1983. 
New German Critique. Modernity and Postmodernity 33 (Fall 1984). 
Nora, Simon and Alain Minc. L’/nformatisation de la societé. Paris: Seuil, 1978. 
Olivetti, M. M., ed. Archivio di filosofia. La ricezione italiana di Heidegger. Padova: 
Cedam 1989. 
Owen, Frank. “The MTV Decade.” Newsday (July 31, 1991). 
Paci, Enzo. [1 senso delle parole (1963-1974). Milano: Bompiani,1987. 
. Idee per una enciclopedia fenomenologica. Milano: Bompiani, 1973. 
Pareyson, Luigi. Verita e interpretazione. Milano: Mursia, 1972. 
. Estetica, teoria della formativita. Firenze: Sansoni, 1974. 
Patella, Giuseppe. Sul post-moderno. Per un postmodernismo della resistenza. Roma: 
Studium, 1990. 
Perniola, Mario. Del sentire. Torino: Einaudi. 
Pfeil, Fred. Another tale to Teil: Politics and Narrative in Contemporary Culture. 
London: Verso, 1990. 
Portoghesi, Paolo. Dopo Il’ architettura moderna. Roma: Laterza, 1980. 
. Postmodern. Milano: Electa, 1979. 
Prandstraller, Gian Paolo.: L’komo senza certezze e le sue qualita. Roma: Laterza, 
1991. 
Russell, Charles. Poets, Prophets and Revolutionaries. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1985. 











Postmodern Chronicles = (8) 


Salvucci, Pasquale. “Quale filosofia nel postmoderno.” Cazzaniga 79-86. 

Semerari, Giuseppe. Novecento filosofico italiano. Napoli: Guida, 1988. 

Spanos, William. “The Apollonian Investment of Modern Humanist Education.” 
Cultural Critique 1 (Fall 1985): 7-71; 2 (Winter 1985-86): 105-36. 

Strano, Carmelo. Dall'opera aperta all’ opera ellittica: oltre la modernita e il 
postmoderno. Milano: Mursia, 1989. 

Subirats, Eduardo. El final de las vanguardias. Barcelona: Anthropos, 1989. 

Tafuri, Manfredi. La sfera e il labirinto. Torino: Einaudi, 1980. 

Vattimo, Gianni. La societa trasparente. Milano: Garzanti, 1989. 

. La fine della modernita. Milano: Garzanti, 1985. (Eng. transl. The End of 

Modernity. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP,1989.) 

. Le avventure della differenza. Milano: Garzanti, 1980. 

and P. A. Rovatti, eds. JI pensiero debole. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1983. 

Wellmer, Albrecht. La dialettica moderno-postmoderno. La critica della ragione dopo 
Adorno. Milano: Unicopli, 1987. 

Zanini, Adelino. [1 moderno come residuo. Roma: Pellicani, 1980. 











Francesco Guardiani 


Il postmoderno esce dal caos. 
Verso la sintesi con McLuhan e Frye 





Lo stato del dibattito critico é oggi tale, di qua e di 1a dall'Atlantico, che non 
sembra si possa fare a meno di portare in campo il postmoderno. Eppure non c'é 
chi non biasimi |’inadeguatezza del termine, la sua vacua ambizione definitoria. 
Si corre allora ai ripari: non si rinuncia al concetto — ché proprio nella sua 
straordinaria ambiguita ha il grande merito di rendere fruibili i discorsi 
provenienti dalle pit diverse scuole e, anzi, dalle pit diverse discipline — ma 
non si finisce di sillabare la parola fatidica che subito si avverte il bisogno di 
procedere con le qualificazioni. Abbiamo cosi il postmoderno di Ihab Hassan, di 
John Barth, di Leslie Fiedler, di Fredric Jameson, di Linda Hutcheon . . . per 
restare in ambito specificamente letterario. Il che, in verita, non capita di 
frequente perché il postmoderno é per sua stessa natura flessibile e, anzi 
polimorfo. In fondo esso significa “stagione culturale attuale” ed é quindi logico 
che da ogni parte venga registrato; cid che é notevole e nuovo, piuttosto, é che la 
maggior parte degli studiosi trovi giusto usare lo stesso termine, segno di un 
acutamente avvertito bisogno di sintesi, di un bisogno di intendersi sugli 
elementi fondamentali della cultura contemporanea al di 1a delle priorita dei 
singoli campi di specializzazione. Cosciente o no che sia questo bisogno, una 
volta impugnato il concetto di postmoderno non si pud evitare che, pur nelle 
mani del critico pit scaltro, esso apra il discorso nell’ambito pit ampio. Quando 
poi proprio l’orizzonte pit esteso costituisce il campo dichiarato d’indagine, 
quando cioé ci si impegna in un discorso culturologico da un punto di vista 
prettamente teorico, il postmoderno sembra acquisire la pil: grande coerenza e 
validita negli scritti dei filosofi, da Jean-Francois Lyotard a Richard Rorty a 
Gianni Vattimo, che reclamano priorita sull’argomento in maniera pil) o meno 
palese, nonostante le proteste dei primi arrivati all’utilizzo generalizzato del 
termine, storici e critici d’arte, architetti soprattutto (Charles Jencks, Paolo 
Portoghesi). 

E curioso osservare come il critico italiano, da Croce disabituato all’analisi 
stilistica e dei generi letterari, dopo una vampata di entusiasmo per la riscoperta 
della retorica, torni oggi ad avvertire un senso di acuta dipendenza da categorie 
filosofiche. Non c’é naturalmente un “critico italiano tipico” e per questo si 
evitano riferimenti precisi che inevitabilmente risulterebbero parziali e 
fuorvianti; si tende invece a generalizzare, e generalizzare bisogna ché il quadro é 
tanto vasto da permettere solo da lontano un riconoscimento della sua figura. 

In ambito anglosassone la situazione presenta una linea di sviluppo inversa: 
contemporanei di Croce sono i critici di Cambridge e quindi i “New Critics” con 


Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesiconMcLuhane Frye 57 


le loro sottili analisi del “tessuto” testuale e i loro vari tipi di ambiguita (sette. 
“Perché solo sette?” Fu il commento caustico di Northrop Frye all’uscita del 
fortunato saggio di William Empson, intendendo: “Una volta che si riconosce il 
principio di ambiguita nel testo poetico occorre che lo si porti avanti; vedremo 
cosi a quali risultati sapra condurci”. Guardiani, La critica mitologica di Northrop 
Frye 101-2). Ai critici di Cambridge, I. A. Richards ed Empson particolarmente, 
nel cui ambiente si era formato il giovane McLuhan che forse rappresenta il loro 
prodotto pit originale, reagirono i nuovi studiosi di “storia delle idee” che gia 
avevano accumulato un certo risentimento contro lo stretto filologismo storico 
tardo ottocentesco. Con la “storia delle idee” si rilanciava il Romanticismo in 
sede propriamente letteraria e, in generale, si riportava in auge la filosofia 
aprendo anche all’ingente nuova massa di studi provenienti dalla psicologia e 
dall’antropologia. In quest’ultima corrente si colloca Frye, secondo quanto lui 
stesso ha dichiarato (Guardiani, Interview 318), almeno per quanto riguarda 
l’humus della sua formazione accademica. Non meno ironicamente di quanto é 
accaduto in Italia, in ambiente anglosassone il “New Criticism” é risorto nel 
post-strutturalismo, e precisamente nel movimento decostruzionista. Ricorro 
ancora a Frye, all’ intervista rilasciataci e pubblicata nell’autunno del 1988: 


F. Guardiani. Do you see in the insistence on ambiguity and on texture (rather than on 
all-encompassing structures) a return to a type of criticism of the past? Do you see 
deconstruction as the most important post-structuralist trend? 
N. Frye. Yes, I think post-structural criticism is the “new” criticism of two 
generations ago refurbished with a more elaborate theoretical framework. One is post- 
structural and the other pre-structural, but they both neglect the totality that the word 
“structure” is a metaphor for, and concentrate on texture. When I say totality I don’t 
mean anything that can be finished and done with, but something that suggests a 
context or bigger totality beyond itself, in the way that the work of literature has the 
rest of literature for its context. 

(Guardiani, Interview 323) 


E ora, dopo tanto divagare per la pur necessaria comice storico-culturale di un 
discorso di messa a fuoco sulla postmodernita di Frye e McLuhan, di scoprire le 
Carte e indicare nel pensiero dei dioscuri della cultura canadese quelle linee 
portanti che ne chiariscono la prospettiva e, a nostro avviso, indicano l’approdo 
ultimo del presente dibattito critico. Gia comunque si dovrebbe awvertire, nel 
quadro testé delineato, l’esigenza di un superamento delle pur ampie, ma opposte, 
posizioni critiche piu rappresentative del ventesimo secolo. Il doppio incrocio tra 
ambiente anglosassone e italiano, di filosofia e filologia (0, pit: precisamente, di 
“storia delle idee” e retorica) trova dunque nel presente lavoro due “campioni” in 
Frye e McLuhan, entrambi per lungo tempo professori alla University of 
Toronto. Frye vi ha insegnato per oltre mezzo secolo fino alla sua recente 
scomparsa, McLuhan per pit di trent’anni, dal 1946 fino alla morte anche lui. Il 
primo, originario delle province dell'Est (nato nel 1912 in Québec e poi 


58 Francesco Guardiani 


trasferitosi con la famiglia in New Brunswick), aveva completato la sua 
formazione a Oxford; il secondo, proveniente dall’Ovest (nato nel 1911 in 
Alberta e laureato in Manitoba), aveva conseguito il Ph.D a Cambridge sotto 
l’influenza fortissima di I. A. Richards e poi di William Empson. Entrambi 
erano confluiti alla University of Toronto insegnando il primo a Victoria 
College il secondo a St. Michael’s College. A Toronto ognuno dei due, pur 
conscio della presenza vistosa dell’altro, soprattutto negli anni Sessanta, ha 
elaborato indipendentemente la propria sintesi, il proprio sistema di integrazione 
dei prodotti umani, in una ardita struttura onnicomprensiva. Molto si é detto e 
scritto a proposito della esemplarita dell’ambiente culturale canadese e, in 
particolare, di Toronto e del suo milieu accademico, della sua leggendaria apertura 
a influssi culturali provenienti da ogni parte del mondo, della sua “school of 
communication” aperta dagli studi pionieristici di Harold Innis. Credo tuttavia 
che sia proprio nel binomio Frye-McLuhan, nella loro parallela ricerca di una 
totalizzante teoria critica ed educativa, che vada rintracciato il massimo 
contributo del Canada, o del mosaico di nazioni che lo costituisce, alla cultura 
del nostro tempo. 

In questa sede si ricorre a McLuhan e alla sua teoria delle trasformazioni 
culturali per un inquadramento storico dell’attuale situazione, mentre di Frye si 
riportano le categorie polisemiche di simbolo, metafora e mito che, entro 
l’ampio spazio definito dalle coordinate di McLuhan (“time and media”), 
specificano gli obiettivi della ricerca e annunciano i suoi sviluppi e i suoi frutti. 
Premetto che non é@ mia intenzione approfondire qui il problema della 
coniugabilita, in un unico discorso critico, delle teorie dei due studiosi canadesi; 
data la straordinaria, anche quantitativamente, produzione di entrambi, questo 
richiederebbe un lavoro di ampiezza ben diversa dall’attuale. Vero é che ognuno 
dei due rappresenta “a one man system” che non ha bisogno di appoggi esterni 
per solidificare le proprie intuizioni e i propri risultati; tuttavia, entrainbi 
mostrano una decisa volonta di esplorare e inglobare con la propria teoria tutto 
cid che rientra nell’ambito dell’umano dalla creazione all’apocalisse e per questo 
si illuminano a vicenda. Un altro caveat: né McLuhan né Frye ha mai adottato il 
termine “postmoderno”. Si pud facilmente ipotizzare che il primo, venuto a 
mancare dodici anni fa, e dopo due anni di malattia che lo aveva letteralmente 
ridotto al silenzio, avrebbe certamente impiegato il concetto capitalizzando sulla 
sua Capacita di sintesi, visto che esso poteva servire, come serve tuttora, quale 
valido sostegno esterno, come mezzo di verifica e di propagazione delle sue pit 
ambiziose intuizioni. 

Diverso @ il caso di Frye, scomparso nel gennaio del ’91, poiché negli 
ultimi tre lustri @ stato totalmente impegnato nella meditazione e nella stesura 
della sua summa (sviluppata in due libri, The Great Code e Words with Power), 
sul rapporto tra Bibbia e letteratura. Proprio nell’ultimo lavoro, uscito a stampa 
pochi mesi prima della sua morte, Frye, sempre attentissimo a tutto cid che 
riguardava nuovi metodi e percorsi critici, di fronte al proliferare di correnti e 


Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesicon McLuhane Frye 59 
tendenze che é un fenomeno tipico dell’ ultima stagione “postmoderna”, annotava: 


If I am right in my conviction . . . a consensus does exist in criticism, however much 
the dialectical divergences among the schools may conceal it. The pluralistic 
tendency has to work itself out to exhaustion before any effective unifying movement 
can replace it. 

(Words with Power xix) 


Questa scheda, che certo non si spiega se non facendo appello all’intima 
convinzione dello studioso di agire criticamente con una visione unificatrice e 
globalizzante, ben si potrebbe porre in esergo al presente lavoro; con l’aggiunta 
di un’altra, pit datata ma non meno efficace, tratta da Counterblast, uno dei libri 
“profetici” di McLuhan (praticamente tutta la sua produzione dal ’64, anno di 
Understanding Media, in poi): “Bless Thomas Kuhn’s Structure of Scientific 
Revolutions for bridging art and science beyond the hopes of C. P. Snow” 
(Counterblast 121). Ed ecco, allora, che siamo gia nel cuore della questione, 
additando nei due la sintesi del nostro titolo che ora conviene sviluppare. Ma, 
intanto, osserviamo preliminarmente che con Frye ci troviamo di fronte a una 
sintesi che ha carattere pratico, di intesa, sulle questioni fondamentali della critica 
letteraria, mentre con McLuhan a una sintesi pid ampia, culturologica e allo 
stesso tempo epocale, “contro la scellerata ipotesi che ci siano ‘due culture’” 
(Barilli, Poetica e retorica 6), 0 pit culture, nell’ambito dei valori essenziali 
dell’uomo. 

Si deve a Renato Barilli il merito di aver portato ad una riattualizzazione di 
McLuhan in chiave postmoderna (Poetica e retorica; Tra presenza e assenza; 
Culturologia; McLuhan) e, in passing,  dovere aggiungere che é carenza grave 
della critica italiana, la quale non certo tralascia di ricordare oggi McLuhan (per 
esempio Vattimo 25; Luperini 6), il non aver tratto vantaggio dalla sua 
illuminante rivisitazione, densa di riflessioni chiarificatrici sull’arte e la 
letteratura del ventesimo secolo e, in particolare, della stagione presente. Aila 
postmodernita di Frye, oltre a un affondo esplorativo da noi tentato anni fa nel 
corso di un piccolo convegno canadese (“The Italian Connection: 25 Years of 
Canadian Literature in Italian Translation”, aprile-maggio 1988) i cui atti non 
furono mai pubblicati, non é stata finora dedicata alcuna attenzione. Un fatto 
abbastanza comprensibile se si pensa al postmoderno come a una “nuova” 
specializzazione nella gia sovraffollata piazza della critica accademica, ma meno 
scontato se per postmoderno si vuole intendere, come noi facciamo, un 
environment culturale di dimensioni planetarie del quale restano ancora da chiarire 
gli elementi distintivi. 

L’operazione di Barilli sostanzialmente consiste nell’aver ridefinito in 
termini attuali le due epoche culturali maggiormente studiate da McLuhan: egli 
chiama eta moderna (con quasi perfetta cronologia rispetto alla modernita della 
storiografia corrente) l’eta meccanica, gutenberghiana, di cui appunto The 


60 Francesco Guardiani 


Gutenberg Galaxy (1962) fornisce il mosaico planimetrico, e chiama poi eta 
postmoderna (incrociando “il contemporaneo” dei manuali scolastici) 1|’eta 
elettrica, cioé determinata dall’ideazione e dallo sviluppo dei mezzi elettrici di cui 
un quadro sintetico é offerto in Understanding Media (1964). Con questa 
partizione abbiamo, innanzi tutto, una chiara sistemazione cronologica: |’eta 
moderna abbraccia il periodo che va dall’invenzione della stampa a caratteri 
mobili, intorno alla meta del Quattrocento, fino all’apparire del primo mezzo 
elettrico, il telegrafo, nel 1825. Il postmoderno nasce in questo periodo ed é 
quindi entrato oggi in una fase avanzata di sviluppo. Si pongono qui problemi 
che necessitano di immediato chiarimento: qual é l’elemento di base che permette 
una classificazione cosi vasta e drastica allo stesso tempo? Come accertare lo 
straordinario valore assegnato allo spartiacque fissato all’inizio dell’Ottocento? 
Come interpretare 1 movimenti, le tendenze, le scuole e in genere tutte le 
suddivisioni che secondo la tradizionale partizione per secoli cadono all’ interno 
dei raggruppamenti amplissimi qui suggeriti? Buona parte del Rinascimento, il 
Barocco, |’Illuminismo, per esempio, rientrano nella modernita: che cosa li 
unisce e che cosa li separa? 

E d’obbligo, per rispondere a questi legittimi interrogativi, un ricorso ad 
alcune “degnita” mcluhaniane. Non sorprenda la chiara allusione a Vico ché il 
filosofo napoletano fu, con Francis Bacon e Joyce, tra gli autori pit frequentati 
da MacLuhan, soprattutto negli ultimi anni; si pensi all’ultima sua opera, 
completata dal figlio Eric e pubblicata recentemente, che perfino nel titolo 
dichiara il debito vichiano, Laws of Media: The New Science.’ Si deve innanzi 
tutto accettare per segno distintivo di una data cultura e, per estensione 
temporale, di un’epoca, il medium che piu di ogni altro determina i valori sui 
quali si regge l’intero impianto sociale. Le tappe fondamentali della civilta, per 
McLuhan, sono rappresentate dalla lingua, dall’alfabeto (e quindi dalla scrittura, 
con un’escursione che va dal geroglifico all’ideogramma alla rosa fonetica della 
parola scritta), dalla stampa a caratteri mobili, dai mezzi elettrici (che ¢ quanto 
dire dall’elettromagnetismo e dalle sue applicazioni). Ognuno di questi elementi é 
un medium. E bene subito chiarire, visto che il concetto @ tanto usato quanto 
mal inteso, che per McLuhan medium é perfetto sinonimo di technology o 
human artifact, prodotto dell’uomo insomma, che puod essere la ruota come la 
forma della tragedia, il computer come I’ abito da sera. Ora il medium, e siamo 
alla seconda “degnita”, costituisce una estensione dei nostri organi percettivi, e 
quindi dei nostri sensi, con cui conosciamo e interpretiamo il mondo naturale, il 
mondo esterno che ci circonda; nel creare i media, comunque, noi creiamo anche 
degli oggetti che quindi vengono ad essere estensioni dei nostri sensi e anche 
nuovi elementi del nostro environment sia fisico che immaginativo. Cosi 
un’autostrada, per esempio, mentre costituisce un’estensione dei nostri mezzi di 


1 Per pid puntuali riscontri si rimanda al nostro Probing the Natural Law: McLuhan’'s Reading of 
Vico. 


Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesiconMcLuhane Frye 61 


locomozione, cambia allo stesso tempo |’ambiente nel quale ci muoviamo. Altra 
indispensabile “degnita”: gli effetti precedono sempre le cause. E cioé: alla 
coscienza delle cause di una trasformazione imposta dal medium di maggior 
penetrazione e di pili ampio raggio d’azione si perviene solo a trasformazione 
avvenuta. A questo punto val la pena di fermarsi un attimo per considerare due 
implicazioni della massima importanza. 

Sara opportuno notare subito che la mancata consapevolezza della portata 
della trasformazione in corso di attuazione per opera di un medium di grande 
penetrabilita e potenza, unita al bisogno di darsi ragione dell’iniziale ma pur 
avvertibile cambiamento culturologico, conduce in genere alla “rear-view mirror 
syndrome”, ovvero alla giustificazione del presente con le risorse intellettuali e 
con la forma mentis del passato. Ecco l’esempio di McLuhan in proposito: 
quando apparve l’automobile in circolazione, essa fu chiamata horseless carriage, 
carrozza senza cavalli, sintagma che evocava ancora un mondo fatto di fienili, 
stalle, locande di posta e strade di terra battuta; certamente non significava o 
suggeriva un nuovo environment costituito da autostrade, distributori di benzina, 
autogrill, motel, grandi parcheggi e insediamenti suburbani. Si deve osservare 
allora che l’immersione in un nuovo environment inizialmente avviene in 
maniera subliminale. Tale immersione diventa pero consapevole nel momento in 
cui il medium pit responsabile del cambiamento giunge nella sua fase di 
maturazione, e cioé di pil ampia applicazione, alla fase che McLuhan definisce di 
applied technology. In questa fase si assiste allo scontro, per cosi dire, del nuovo 
medium, innovativo, con quello precedente, obsoleto. La conseguenza é che il 
primo viene sostituito (0 trasformato) dal secondo, scatenando nei suoi ideatori e 
fruitori un forte senso di desiderio e di attesa per le nuove possibili innovazioni. 
La fase di applied technology é allora una fase intermedia nella vita di un 
medium: una volta che l’uomo acquisisce la consapevolezza del suo valore si 
chiude la fase conservatrice (della “rear-view mirror syndrome”) e si apre quella 
della sperimentazione e delle nuove proposte. 

Questi assiomi sulla natura del medium si applicano a qualunque prodotto 
dell’uomo. Alla decisione di rivolgere lo studio agli effetti della stampa e 
dell’elettromagnetismo McLuhan é arrivato attraverso un processo di massima 
generalizzazione nella ricerca delle cause “ambientali” a monte delle pit vistose 
trasformazioni culturali occorse nell’arco dell’ultimo millennio. Si pud 
contrastare questa sua scelta di referenti, ma se si accettano gli assiomi di base 
fondati sulla cognizione di civilta come sommatoria delle creazioni umane 
(media) e queste come estensioni delle nostre facolta percettive, appare per lo 
meno improbabile che si possano smantellare gli inventari di The Gutenberg 
Galaxy. Parliamo di inventari con riferimento al metodo d’indagine di McLuhan 
che, nei termini pit’ semplici, consiste nell’accumulare analitiche descrizioni di 
effetti dei media coevi pit disparati fino a quando la loro causa comune non viene 
pienamente manifestata. E questo metodo antidialettico del mosaico che porta 
alla sintesi: quando le tessere trovano la loro collocazione grazie alla loro forma e 


62 Francesco Guardiani 


alla loro misura, il risultato appare evidente senza alcuna razionalizzazione 
astratta. 

E veniamo finalmente al postmoderno. II prefisso ci impone di intenderci 
sul “moderno”. Per McLuhan, come s’é anticipato, esso corrisponde all’eta 
meccanica, determinata prima subliminalmente e poi in maniera sempre piu 
cosciente dalla stampa. Gli effetti di tale medium sulla psiche individuale e 
collettiva confermano che esso stabilisce uno squilibrio nella nostra percezione 
del mondo a tutto vantaggio del senso della vista: un senso disgregante, divisivo, 
Ja cui prevalenza sugli altri conduce ad una percezione atomistica della realta. 
Scomporre implica comunque anche la possibilita di ricomporre, anzi @ proprio 
questo il suo grande vantaggio: la neutra valenza delle parti minime in cui gli 
oggetti sono frammentati offre la possibilita di ricomporli o di comporne altri a 
piacimento; le lettere dell’alfabeto sono quindi come i mattoni da costruzione con 
cui si pud “costruire” a piacimento qualunque struttura. Non solo: la macchina 
della stampa costituisce l’archetipo di tutte le macchine in quanto assicura la 
perfetta replica del prodotto in quantita virtualmente illimitate e a costi bassi. E 
la coscienza di questa potenzialita che per McLuhan da vita a vere e proprie 
avventure cognitive (da Cartesio a Locke), a nuovi orientamenti sociali (dalla 
costituzione degli stati nazionali alla democraticizzazione delle masse) e 
naturalmente a nuove scoperte della scienza e della tecnica; fatti “positivi”, 
insomma, che ancora costituiscono l’orgoglio dell’Occidente, per i quali la forma 
mentale visiva non ha fatto altro che apparecchiare un environment stabilendo 
nuovi formidabili “paradigmi”, per usare una nota espressione di Thomas Kuhn. 

Se questo é il moderno, e se il medium pit forte e pit coinvolgente che 
siamo stati capaci di individuare in esso é la stampa a caratteri mobili, la ricerca 
del postmoderno sara rivolta a un medium di almeno pari potenza, capace di 
contrastarlo, di renderlo obsoleto, o almeno di trasformarlo radicalmente. E, di 
nuovo forti degli inventari di effetti di McLuhan, siamo indotti a puntare 
sull’elettromagnetismo e sulle sue applicazioni. Con lo _ studio 
dell’ elettromagnetismo e, in particolare, con la scoperta della nozione di “campo” 
opposta a quella della linearizzazione meccanica gutenberghiana, il senso fisico 
direttamente chiamato in causa non é pit quello visivo, anzi non é pid un solo 
senso: siamo infatti in un ambito di generale ed equilibrato coinvolgimento di 
tutti i sensi, di percezione gestaltica della realté. Chiaramente non é qui il caso di 
indugiare in lunghe discussioni sulla natura della percezione sensoriale, bastera 
far riferimento, oltre che agli studi di McLuhan gia menzionati e alla loro 
sistematica elucidazione fornita da Barilli, al lavoro pubblicato postumo dallo 
studioso canadese (in due diverse stampe: Laws of Media: The New Science, 
1988; The Global Village: Transformations in World Life and Media in the 21st 
Century, 1989) e infine al recentissimo Brainframes, 1991, di Derrick de 
Kerckhove. Importa invece mettere a frutto le nostre “degnita” nel periodo 
postmoderno che abbiamo isolato tra I’inizio dell’Ottocento e il tempo presente. 

Alla domanda, perché solo oggi si parla di postmoderno (perché solo ora si 


Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesiconMcLuhane Frye 63 


avverte l’esigenza di un “nuovo ordine” mondiale per la sopravvivenza stessa del 
pianeta), la risposta é che solo oggi siamo giunti alla fase di applied technology 
in cui la trasformazione epocale del medium elettrico ha toccato la coscienza 
collettiva. Non si tratta soltanto di una questione di “mera” comunicazione, 
intesa come una aumentata informazione sullo stato attuale delle cose nel 
mondo: i nostri stessi sensi sono stati direttamente toccati dagli effetti del 
progresso meccanico lanciato verso una distruzione sistematica dell’ambiente 
naturale e del nostro sistema nervoso. Cid ha stimolato a cercare reazioni 
alternative e globalizzanti: soluzioni ecologiche, intransigente riaffermazione dei 
diritti umani, revisione dell’attuale quality of life. La differenza tra questa e le 
“rivoluzioni” di cui é costellata la storia del periodo moderno é nel suo puntare 
nel qui e ora, con la coscienza della estrema rapidita d’azione dei mezzi elettrici 
che non permette si rimandi al futuro la soluzione dei problemi e non concede 
piu fiducia nelle promesse delle ideologie. 

Lo sviluppo dell’ elettromagnetismo (che é quanto dire della postmodemita) é@ 
marcato dalle seguenti innovazioni: telegrafo, radio, televisione, computer. 
L’errore pit banale e comune (vistosamente rappresentato, per esempio, ne La 
malattia del tempo, il recente romanzo per altri versi straordinario di Roberto 
Pazzi) é quello di considerare questi media “macchine”, mentre sono esattamente 
anti-macchine per la loro natura elettrica e onniavvolgente, “fredda” secondo la 
classificazione di McLuhan, esplicata massimamente nel computer, nel 
“cervello” tutt’intero “elettronico” — e varra pure a qualcosa far riferimento a 
questa unita oggi che lo studio delle diverse funzioni delle due parti del cervello 
ha acquisito piena rispettabilita scientifica (De Kerckhove, The Alphabet; 
Brainframes). Nella seconda meta dell’Ottocento Samuel Butler lanciava forse il 
pill severo monito all’invadenza delle macchine nel suo Erewhon; cid che allora 
era pura intuizione, preveggenza di artista, oggi é luogo comune. I mezzi con cui 
i futurologi annunciano oggi le prossime trasformazioni culturali non sono pit 
macchine, ma circuiti stampati “immobili” che elaborano dati alla velocita della 
luce: William Gibson, autore del pit: inquietante romanzo fantascientifico degli 
ultimi anni, Neuromancer, 1986, quando per la prima volta ha aperto “la scatola” 
del computer, si é meravigliato che ancora contenesse parti rotanti, parti 
meccaniche. Gli effetti pit vistosi e stimolanti del nuovo environment sono 
come sempre nel campo delle arti; gli effetti pit) ovvi in ambito sociale sono 
nelle comunicazioni in cui anche il “cieco” riconosce |’affermarsi del binomio 
costituito da simultaneita e globalita dell’informazione. Fino a questo punto ci 
conduce McLuhan. 

Prima di passare a Frye, alle sue categorie pid precise e fruibili da un punto 
di vista critico letterario che qui si presentano in perfetta sintonia con la teoria 
generale dell’altro canadese, pud essere di qualche utilita un breve sondaggio 
Critico su chi di media e postmoderno si é recentemente occupato con un certo 
successo. Mi riferisco a Gianni Vattimo e, in particolare alla sua Societa 
trasparente (Postmoderno: una societad trasparente?), un saggio di sintesi 


64 Francesco Guardiani 


veramente trasparente e quindi apertissimo a commenti costruttivi. Vattimo 
annuncia innanzi tutto questa definizione, per la verité un po’ sibillina: “la 
modernita @ l’epoca in cui diventa un valore determinante il fatto di essere 
moderno” (7); per poi stabilire il postmoderno in base a vari “fattori”: fine del 
colonialismo e dell’imperialismo, avvento della societa della comunicazione 
(11). Quest’ ultimo “fattore” &@ quello che gli permette di chiarire il senso di 
“societa trasparente”: 


Come si sara osservato, l’espressione “‘societa trasparente” @ qui introdotta da un 
punto interrogativo. Cid che intendo sostenere é: a) che nella nascita di una societa 
postmoderna un ruolo determinante @ esercitato dai mass media; b) che essi 
caratterizzano questa societaé non come una societa pill “trasparente”, pil. consapevole 
di sé, pit “illuminata”, ma come una societa pit complessa, persino caotica; e infine 
c) che proprio in questo relativo “caos” risiedono le nostre speranze di 
emancipazione. 


(11) 


Ora @ chiaro che Vattimo ragiona in termini di effetti e non di cause. Circa la 
definizione di modemita, infatti, non si capisce come ad un certo punto della 
storia diventi “un valore determinante il fatto di essere moderno” (7). Ammesso 
pure che questa consapevolezza (credo che egli si riferisca ad una sopravvenuta 
“coscienza della modernita”) sia stata davvero tanto ampiamente condivisa da 
costituire una categoria distintiva di una intera epoca, la sua origine non é affatto 
chiara nelle parole di Vattimo che, anzi, non si pone neppure il problema, visto 
che rimane entro i parametri della storiografia da manuale (“alla fine del 
Quattrocento . . . ufficialmente si fa cominciare |’et&4 moderna” 8). Ora, se non si 
intende la causa della modernita (della “coscienza della modernita”), la 
postmodernita é destinata a rimanere ambigua, non definita. Quando poi Vattimo 
parla di “fattori” che determinano il postmoderno, é difficile non porsi il 
problema del numero e della congruenza reciproca di tali importanti termini di 
riferimento. In altre parole: quanti e quali altri fattori ci sono? E, tra quelli 
menzionati, che cosa associa mass media a “‘fine dell’imperialismo” e permette 
che entrambi siano trattati come “fattori”? Si parla poi di “grandi fattori”: ce ne 
sono di meno grandi? La questione si pud chiarire puntando su quello che a 
nostro avviso é |’errore fondamentale di Vattimo. 

L’affermazione secondo cui nel postmoderno un ruolo determinante é 
esercitato dai mass media, in termini mcluhaniani non ha proprio alcun senso o, 
se un senso ad essa si vuole dare, @ una banalita tautologica. Ogni societa, ogni 
cultura, @ fondata sui mass media; @ fondata cioé sui media, prodotti dell’uomo, 
che sono condivisi da una “massa”. La lingua inglese é un mass medium, dice 
McLuhan, come lo é la ruota, la sedia, o la forma del sonetto. Occorre allora 
precisare, scavare nel significato dei termini mass e medium, ed & precisamente 
quello che lo studioso canadese ha fatto in tutta la sua opera. La confusione di 
Vattimo sulla natura dei mass media, cui egli pur assegna un valore 


Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesiconMcLuhane Frye 65 


determinante, non gli permette di riconoscere in essi il fattore unico di ogni 
trasformazione culturale e quindi di chiarire che il senso della modernita é da 
ricercare nei mass media meccanici che privilegiano il senso della vista, mentre 
quello della postmodernita nei mass media elettrici, che richiedono un totale 
coinvolgimento sensoriale favorito dai pil pronti e palesi recuperi, che sono 
quelli dei sensi dell’udito e del tatto. Tale confusione, che é in verita diffusissima 
per cui in Vattimo prende valore esemplare, non pud logicamente offrire alcuna 
certezza sulle possibili future trasformazioni dell’ambiente culturale nel quale 
siamo immersi (troppi e troppo incerti sono i fattori determinanti); si resta 
percid con il “caos” del presente e con niente altro se non “speranze” per il 
futuro. Dalla posizione di Vattimo il postmoderno, “la societa trasparente” con 
tanto di punto interrogativo, ¢ un mondo esterno da “interpretare” e da 
riprogrammare per viverci. Questo é invece un mondo in cui si vive senza 
“interpretazioni”, rispondendo direttamente ai nostri bisogni primari che i mass 
media elettrici, ci piaccia o no, ci hanno scaraventato di fronte ed imposto per la 
nostra stessa sopravvivenza. Il futuro, insomma, per dirla con McLuhan, “is a 
thing of the past” (1’aforisma é riportato da Ong, La nuova oralita 76). 

Intorno ai bisogni primari dell’uomo si discutera fra poco ricorrendo a Frye; 
occorre intanto osservare che la simultaneita e la globalita dell’informazione 
toccano la realta dell’uomo contemporaneo su tutta la superficie terrestre — a 
differenza di quanto ritiene Lyotard, per il quale ii postmoderno “is the condition 
of the most highly developed societies” (xxiii) — imponendo un coinvolgimento 
totale nella ricerca della propria identita. Che, socialmente, ha oggi una natura 
tribale secondo quanto profetizzava trent’anni fa McLuhan e secondo quanto si 
pud osservare in tutto il mondo, dalle regioni del Baltico alle pianure del Canada, 
dalle leghe italiane alle fazioni rivali del Sud Africa. Tali sviluppi dell’eta 
elettrica (della postmodernitaé) non sono affatto rassicuranti, abituati come siamo 
alle omogeneizzazioni “meccaniche” delle organizzazioni nazionali e dei blocchi 
continentali. Questo tanto per sfatare l’assurda idea di una prossima inevitabile 
beata utopia del postmoderno. Le implicazioni sociali delle innovazioni 
massmediologiche si possono capire solo se prima si intende che l’eta meccanica 
delle ideologie, pit o meno consciamente totalitarie, dei piani di sviluppo, degli 
ideali posti a traguardo di percorsi prefabbricati, ormai l’abbiamo alle spalle. E 
con Frye che questi problemi acquistano una loro utile definizione, con una 
prospettiva incentrata sull’attivita educativa del critico letterario. 

Un primo punto di contatto tra Frye e McLuhan é costituito dal principio 
del significato polisemos (secondo la grafia della dantesca 0 pseudodantesca 
epistola a Cangrande). McLuhan ne parla in un suo fondamentale lavoro, tuttora 
inedito, The Place of Thomas Nashe in the Learning of his Time. Si tratta della 
tesi di laurea presentata a Cambridge nel 1943. In essa si discute di Nashe 
praticamente solo nell’ultimo dei cinque capitoli, ognuno dei quali é diviso in tre 
parti ("Grammatica”, “Logica”, “Retorica”). L’opera @ in effetti una lunga 
rassegna delle arti del trivium dai presocratici alla fine del Cinquecento. Cid che 


66 Francesco Guardiani 


fin dai primi studi appare chiaro al giovane McLuhan é che mentre la grammatica 
tende ad associarsi naturalmente alla retorica, la logica si oppone ad entrambe. 
Nella rassegna prevale allora l’idea di una serie di momenti innovativi e 
sperimentali segnati dai grammatici e dai retori che é regolarmente spezzata da 
momenti di assestamenti conservativi e dialettici nella storia della cultura 
occidentale. La grammatica é I’arte con cui si da il senso alle parole e la retorica 
ha la funzione di comunicarlo, di estendere socialmente il frutto delle invenzioni 
verbali e delle scoperte esegetiche. La forma mentis del grammatico é determinata 
da due assolute priorita, etimologia ed esegesi, in perfetta simbiosi. L’etimologia 
attesta il valore della lingua come teatro della memoria (da qui l’interesse per 
Vico, scoperto attraverso gli studi su Joyce), mentre l’esegesi é la messa a frutto, 
per cosi dire, della rievocazione verbale. Ora l’esegesi, e siamo al punto, deve 
procedere da una pluralizzazione delle valenze semantiche della parola. I quattro 
livelli d’intendimento fissati da Terenzio Varrone in De lingua latina, sono per 
McLuhan I’ossatura stessa di ogni operazione interpretativa. Era quindi logico, 
egli argomenta, che essi venissero ripresi nell’ esegesi biblica medievale e, da qui, 
giungessero a Dante. 

Proprio su Dante (1’autore pit citato in Words with Power), sulla doppia 
esposizione del significato polisemos nella lettera a Cangrande e nel Convivio, é 
impostata |’intera teoria della letteratura di Northrop Frye. Il principio, infatti, 
ricompare regolarmente negli scritti di maggior impegno (Anatomy of Criticism; 
The Great Code; Words with Power). Nel primo esso é il fondamento della 
“teoria dei simboli”, nel secondo esso serve a definire le forme della metafora, nel 
terzo si applica al mito. Simbolo, metafora e mito sono i cardini del pensiero 
critico di Frye: il simbolo é la parola letteraria, la metafora é lo strumento di 
associazione dei simboli, il mito é l’espressione verbale compiuta della creativita 
umana espressa con una storia formata da simboli legati da metafore. Un insieme 
di miti interconnessi forma una mitologia, ovvero un corpus di “storie” che 
corrisponde al sistema di valori che informa la vita civile e comunitaria. E chiaro 
che ci sono infiniti miti, ma, argomenta Frye, 


only a finite number — in fact a very small number — of species of myths. The latter 
expresses the human bewilderment about why we are here and where we are going, and 
include the myths of creation, of fall, of exodus and migration, of the destruction of 
human race in the past (deluge myths) or the future (apocalyptic myths), of 
redemption in some phase of life during or after this one, however “after” is 
interpreted. 

(Words with Power 23) 


Questi miti sono tutti contenuti nella Bibbia per cui, anche se solo per studiarne 
la loro struttura individuale e quella determinata dai loro rapporti, é se non altro 
una scelta pratica quella di appellarsi al “Grande codice”, operazione compiuta da 
Frye praticamente dai tempi di Fearful Symmetry (1947) anche se formalizzata 








Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesicon McLuhane Frye 67 


soltanto con gli ultimi due libri. 

Ora, essendo un factum e non un datum dell’esperienza umana, e per di pit 
un fatto indispensabile alla vita civile (da cui, per esempio, l’espressione “the 
myths we go by”), il mito va soprattutto riconosciuto come risposta 
dell’immaginazione alle esigenze fondamentali dell’uomo, che sono esigenze di 
sopravvivenza e di riaffermazione della propria identita. Ed eccoci, allora, 
prossimi alla sintesi di Frye e quindi all’incrocio con McLuhan: 


There is primary concer and there is secondary concern. Primary concern is based on 
the most primitive of platitudes: the conviction that life is better than death, 
happiness better than misery, freedom better than bondage. Secondary concern 
includes loyalty to one’s own society, to one’s religious or political belief, to one’s 
place in the class structure, and in short to everything that comes under the general 
heading of ideology. All through history secondary concerns have had the greater 
prestige and power. We prefer to live, but we go to war; we prefer to be free, but we 
keep a large number of people in a second-class status, and so on. In the twentieth 
century the dangers of persisting in the bad habits of war, and of exploitation both of 
human beings and of nature, have brought humanity to a choice between survival and 
extinction. If we choose survival, the twentieth century will be the first period in 
history when primary concerns have some real chance of becoming primary. 

(Myth and Metaphor 21) 


E questo, nei termini pit’ drammatici, posti come siamo di fronte all’ estinzione 
della specie umana, la necessita della scelta postmoderna di Frye. La sintesi 
consiste nel far fronte alle nostre esigenze primarie, senza pil mediazioni 
ideologiche, senza pit razionalizzazioni dialettiche che riducano il nostro 
coinvolgimento individuale nella vita del pianeta nell’ambito di un corpo sociale 
atomizzato e “meccanicamente” ricomposto in blocchi “moderni”. 

La consapevolezza di essere in un momento del tutto nuovo della storia 
obbliga ad una linea di condotta informata dalla sistematica rimozione di ogni 
possibile ideologia astratta e quindi dell’immediata risposta a quelle che sono le 
esigenze primarie. Per quanto riguarda l’ideologia abbiamo qui un punto di 
perfetta convergenza con McLuhan. Per il quale l’ideologia non é altro che una 
razionalizzazione di esperienze passate da mettere a frutto nel futuro: data la 
rapidita delle percezioni cui i mezzi elettrici oggi ci obbligano, e la varieta stessa 
delle esperienze possibili, non solo il seguire una ideologia qualunque, ma anche 
il cercare di crearne una nuova si esprime bene con I|’immagine dell’asino che 
insegue la carota. Frye é meno drastico di McLuhan perché per lui la dialettica 
che informa ogni ripensamento delle esigenze primarie e ogni loro 
razionalizzazione in un corpo di regole di vita per il presente e, soprattutto, per il 
futuro, @ pur un prodotto umano da riconoscere come risposta a legittimi 
interrogativi esistenziali. Tuttavia, nei suoi ultimi lavori pili chiaramente che 
mai il linguaggio della logica deve far posto al linguaggio che meglio esprime il 
“myth of concern”, che direttamente affronta il problema dell’identita dell’uomo e 


68 Francesco Guardiani 
dei suoi inderogabili bisogni esistenziali; questo é il linguaggio della poesia. 


Poets are the children of concern: they normally reflect the ideologies of their own 
times, and certainly they are always conditioned by their historical and cultural 
surroundings. Yet there has always been a sense od something else that eludes this 
kind of communication. 

(Myth and Metaphor 21) 


Il qualcosa che va al di 14 delle circostanze culturali e ambientali nelle quali il 
poeta opera, e che oggi non é piu dato di tralasciare, é il potere creativo del mito 
presente in tutta la letteratura. “Literature is displaced mythology”, @ uno dei pit 
noti aforismi di Frye. La sintesi é dunque per lui nella coscienza del mito, e 
quindi nella risposta ai bisogni primari dell’uomo con la letteratura. Questo 
punto di arrivo é in verita un punto di partenza: tutta la letteratura é aperta al 
postmoderno, ma sta al lettore e al critico, oggi pil) che mai, riconoscerne 
l’essenza creativa e attualizzarla. Forse questo si pud fare solo entrando in 
comunita con il “mondo nuovo”, il “mondo ipotetico” evocato dalla letteratura: 
Frye afferma di non sentirsi meno creativo di un poeta nello scrivere saggi critici 
(Words with Power xvii) e Leslie Fiedler dichiara che “criticism is literature or is 
nothing” (Cross the Border — Close the Gap: Post-Modernism 153). A questo 
livello 


The writer disappears as an individual, and the question of authority [con buona pace 
di Harold Bloom e della sua “anxiety of influence”] shifts from him to the authority of 
literature as a whole. Then we see that there are no clear boundaries between literary 
and other verbal structures, so that the question becomes one of the authority of 
language. . . . Primary concern is clearly not confined to life and the pursuit of 
happiness; it is not confined even to leisure, privacy, and the freedom of movement 
that for most of us indicate the higher level of culture. It includes also a concern of a 
conscious being to enlarge that consciousness, to get at least a glimpse of what it 
would be like to know more than we are compelled to know. 

(Myth and Metaphor 22) 


Una intensificazione del nostro stato di coscienza, nel tentativo di ritrovare i 
“primary concerns” attraverso il linguaggio, é il fine cui mira l’ultimo libro di 
Frye. Nella seconda parte di Words with Power, “Variations on a Theme”, e cioé 
variazioni sul tema del “myth of concern”, egli esprime i risultati della sua 
ricerca, in cui i miti della letteratura si specchiano in quelli della Bibbia, nelle 
esigenze primarie di liberta di parola e di azione, di amare, di assimilare 
l’ambiente e, alla fine, di creare. Quest’ ultimo é “the concern of concerns” che 
ingloba tutti gli altri. Far fronte direttamente a tale imperativo del nostro essere @ 
dunque il programma e allo stesso tempo la sintesi che la nostra eta, al limite 
della storia, ci richiede . . . “if we choose survival”. 

Per concludere, se Frye e McLuhan ci insegnano qualcosa, essi ci insegnano 











Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesiconMcLuhane Frye 69 


che si pud fare a meno di Frye e McLuhan, come di ogni altro maestro, se la 
loro individualita non si annulla nella “materia” del loro discorso. II principio 
esegetico del significato polisemos che permette di distinguere i livelli del 
linguaggio e quindi di dare un senso alla sua pit profonda creativita, non é parte 
della parola, “it is a heuristic assumption adopted for the sake of seeing what 
comes out of it” (Words with Power xvii). Cid che viene fuori @ l’essenza della 
critica stessa. Gli strumenti euristici sono virtualmente infiniti, come le scuole 
critiche, e una scuola vale 1’altra se ci conduce alla coscienza della necessita della 
sintesi nelle attivita dell’uomo. Cid che in ultima analisi associa Frye e 
McLuhan, e cid che pit conta nella loro comune lezione, é l’avvio ad una pratica 
di meditazione sul “principio di proprieta”, per Frye cid che é proprio dell’uomo 
nel pensiero e nell’azione (Words with Power 303-4). In Anatomy of Criticism 
il pid alto valore assegnato al simbolo é@ quello della “monade”, la frazione 
minima di umanita che diventa una finestra sul mondo intero. La monade é un 
simbolo e il simbolo é un “medium of exchange” (Myth and Metaphor 28-43); 
lo scambio di cui Frye parla non avviene solo tra uomo e uomo, ma tra 
l’individuo e l’umanita stessa che lo comprende e nella quale egli si identifica. 


University of Toronto 


Opere citate 


Barilli Renato, Tra presenza e assenza. Due ipotesi per I’ eta postmoderna, Milano, 
Bompiani, 1981 (prima ed. 1974). 

» McLuhan e I’ eta postmoderna, in de Kerckhove-Iannucci 73-83. 

, Culturologia e fenomenologia degli stili, Bologna, Mulino, 1982. 
, Poetica e retorica, Milano, Mursia, 1984 (prima ed. 1969). 

Barth John, La letteratura dell’ esaurimento, in Carravetta-Spedicato 49-60. 

, La letteratura della pienezza: fiction postmodernista, in Carravetta- 
Spedicato 86-98. 

Bloom Harold, The Anxiety of Influence, New York, Oxford UP, 1973. 

Butler Samuel, Erewhon, London, J. M. Dent & Sons, 1932. 

Carravetta Peter e Paolo Spedicato (a c. di), Postmoderno e letteratura. Percorsi e 
visioni della critica in America, Milano, Bompiani, 1984. 

de Kerckhove Derrick, Brainframes, Technology, Mind and Business, Utrecht, Bosh 
& Keuning — BSO/Origin, 1991. 

de Kerckhove Derrick e Charles J. Lumsden (a c. di), The Alphabeth and the Brain, the 
Lateralization of Writing, Heidelberg, Springer Verlag, 1988. 

de Kerckhove Derrick e Amilcare Iannucci (a c. di), McLuhan e la metamorfosi 
dell’uomo, Roma, Bulzoni, 1984. 

Empson William, Seven Types of Ambiguity, London, Chatto & Windus, 1930. 

Fiedler Leslie A., Cross the Border — Close the Gap, Post-Modernism, in Pitz-Freese 
151-67. 








70 Francesco Guardiani 


Frye Northrop, Anatomy of Criticism, Princeton, Princeton UP, 1957. 

, Fearful Symmetry, A Study of William Blake, Princeton, Princeton UP, 
1947. 

, Myth and Metaphor. Selected Essays 1974-1988, a c. di Robert D. Denham, 
Charlottesville, U of Virginia P, 1990. 

, [he Great Code: The Bible and Literature, Toronto, Academic Press, 1982. 

, Words with Power. Being a Second Study of “The Bible and Literature,” 
Toronto, Viking/Penguin, 1990. 

Gibson William, Neuromancer, New York, Ace Books, 1984. 

Guardiani Francesco, Interview with Northrop Frye, “Quaderni d’italianistica” 9.2 
(1988), 314-26. 

, La critica mitologica di Northrop Frye. Tesi di laurea, Universita G. 
d’Annunzio, Facolta di Lingue e Letterature Straniere, Pescara, Archivio 
dell’Universita, 1977. 

, Probing the Natural Law: McLuhan's Reading of Vico, in Giambattista Vico 
and Anglo-American Science, Philosophy and Writing, ac. di Marcel Danesi, 
Berlino, Mouton de Gruyter (in corso di preparazione). 

Hassan Ihab, II critico come innovatore: una sequenza paracritica di X cornici, in 
Carravetta-Spedicato 61-85. 

, L’evanescenza della forma, in Carravetta-Spedicato 39-49. 

, La questione del postmodernismo, in Carravetta-Spedicato 99-108. 

Hutcheon Linda, A Poetics of Postmodernism, History, Theory, Fiction, New York, 
Routledge, 1988. 

Innis Harold, The Bias of Communication, Introduzione di Marshall McLuhan, 
Toronto, U of Toronto P, 1970 (prima ed. 1951). 

Jameson Fredric, Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, “New Left 
Review” 146 (1984), 53-92. 

Jencks Charles, The Language of Postmodern Architecture, London, Academy 
Editions, 1977. 

Kuhn Thomas, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, Chicago, U of Chicago P, 
1970 (prima ed. 1962). 

Luperini Romano, L’allegoria del moderno, Roma, Editori Riuniti, 1990. 

Lyotard Jean-Francois, The Postmodern Condition. A Report on Knowledge, 
Minneapolis, U of Minnesota P, 1984 (prima ed. in francese, 1979). 

McLuhan Marshall, Counterblast, Toronto, McClelland and Stewart, 1969. 

, The Gutenberg Galaxy. The Making of Typographic Man, Toronto, U of 
Toronto P, 1962. 

, The Place of Thomas Nashe in the Learning of His Time, Ph.D Dissertation, 
U of Cambridge, 1943. 

, Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man, New York, McGraw-Hill, 
1964. 

e Eric McLuhan, Laws of Media: The New Science, Toronto, U of Toronto 
Press, 1988. 

e Bruce R. Powers, The Global Village: Transformations in World Life and 
Media in the 21st Century, New York, Oxford UP, 1989. 

Pazzi Roberto, La malattia del tempo, Genova, Marietti, 1987. 

Portoghesi Paolo, Dopo I'architettura moderna, Roma, Laterza, 1981 (prima ed. 


























Il postmoderno esce dal caos. Verso la sintesiconMcLuhane Frye 71 


1980) 
, Postmodern: l'architettura nella societa post-industriale, Milano, Electa, 

1982. 

Piitz Manfred e Peter Freese (a c. di), Postmodernism in American Literature, 
Darmstadt, Thesen Verlag, 1984. 

Richards Ivor Armstrong, The Philosophy of Rhetoric, New York, Oxford UP, 1936. 

Rorty Richard, Habermas, Lyotard et la postmodernité, “Critique” 442 (1984), 181- 
OF. 

Snow Charles P., The Two Cultures, Cambridge, Cambridge UP, 1959. 

Vattimo Gianni, La societa trasparente (Postmoderno, una societa trasparente?), 
Milano, Garzanti, 1989. 


Giovanni Mari 


Post-moderno e democrazia 
Nota sulla “filosofia militante’ di G. Vattimo 


1. Il dibattito sul “post-moderno”, quello, in Italia assai intrecciato a 
quest’ultimo, sul “pensiero debole”, e in particolare le tesi sostenute in varie 
occasioni da Gianni Vattimo, hanno contribuito in maniera rilevante a rilanciare, 
in questi ultimi anni, la questione del rapporto tra filosofia e politica. “Filosofia 
militante” significa, non secondariamente, anche preoccupazione per questo 
rapporto. Pit precisamente, la “filosofia militante”, dal punto di vista di questo 
rapporto e nella concezione di Vattimo, si fa carico, “distorcendola” (verwinden), 
di quella funzione che una volta era stata affidata alla metafisica di fondare la 
politica. La metafisica, sotto varie forme (storicismo, universalismo, filosofia 
dei valori, escatologia, ecc.) ha variamente cercato di soddisfare l’esigenza di una 
“‘legittimazione” della politica. Si é cioé sforzata di individuare un fondamento, 
una qualche struttura dell’essere (legalita storica, trascendentalita dei fini, verita 
del realismo o dell’idealismo, ecc.), che costituisse una sorta di orizzonte 
oggettivo in cui cercare il senso profondo dell’azione politica. La “filosofia 
militante” dovrebbe in qualche modo e misura contribuire a colmare il vuoto 
determinatosi alla base della politica nell’eta della fine della metafisica. 

La presente nota intende vedere brevemente, discutendo alcune idee di 
Vattimo, determinati caratteri della “filosofia militante” e il modo in cui essa 
recupera, modificandola, quella funzione tipica della metafisica. 


2. Nel suo recente Post-moderno, tecnologia, ontologia, G. Vattimo, dopo aver 
sostenuto che “quando si parla di un oltrepassamento della metafisica si ha in 
mente un processo di emancipazione, una sorta di uscita da una condizione che, 
in termini marxiani, si chiamerebbe di alienazione”, si pone la seguente 
domanda: “in che misura I'indebolimento del principio di realta che, secondo la 
mia tesi, ha luogo nella transizione alla post-modernita, corrisponde alle esigenze 
che ispirano lo sforzo di oltrepassare la metafisica e la modernita?” La risposta, 
“in termini molto sommari”, fornita da Vattimo @ che “un'ontologia 
dell’indebolimento dell’essere, fornisce ragioni filosofiche per preferire una 
societa democratica, tollerante, liberale invece che una societa autoritaria e 
totalitaria” (Post-moderno, tecnologia, ontologia 94). 

Il fatto che lo “sforzo” di oltrepassare la metafisica (e la modernita) coincida 
con la “preferenza” per una societa democratica, fa “corrispondere” |’ontologia 
dell’indebolimento con la “filosofia militante”, cioé con quelle “ragioni 








Post-moderno e democrazia 73 


filosofiche” in favore della tolleranza e del liberalismo. Laddove tutto il 
ragionamento presuppone la tesi del carattere violento della metafisica e insieme 
l’altra tesi (esattamente il rovescio della medaglia della precedente), che la 
tolleranza, la liberta e la democrazia postulino una mentalita culturale e filosofica 
ben rappresentate dal “‘pensiero debole” e dalla filosofia del “post-moderno”. La 
filosofia militante, quindi, si collocherebbe all’interno di un crocevia di 
corrispondenze storiche e filosofiche, quali quelle tra modernita e metafisica, tra 
metafisica e violenza, tra post-metafisica e post-modernita, tra ontologia 
dell’indebolimento dell’ essere e tolleranza, democrazia, liberta. E quest’ultima la 
corrispondenza che pit direttamente esprime la filosofia militante e quella che a 
noi pit direttamente interessa. 

Occorre anche osservare il particolare intreccio che in questo modo Vattimo 
stabilisce tra filosofia, politica e storia (0 societa). La critica alla metafisica 
coincide con un evento storico — la fine della modernita — che in un certo 
senso essa favorisce e rappresenta; tale critica non é semplicemente un aspetto 
deila storia della filosofia, un mero evento filosofico. A sua volta, una essenziale 
dimensione storico-sociale come la democrazia, @, insieme, un effetto di quella 
critica emancipatrice e una espressione del pensiero post-metafisico, e non 
semplicemente un programma politico. Per un verso, quindi, qui accade una 
particolare torsione della nozione di ontologia. Quest’ultima non solo non é 
scienza dell’essere che @, ma dell’essere che non é, che diviene, ma acquista 
alcuni connotati del pensiero politico tout-court. E proprio di quest’ultimo, 
infatti, almeno nella tradizione emancipativa in cui Vattimo si colloca, 
incaricarsi della definizione e della promozione di determinati cambiamenti 
storico-sociali. Il fatto che sia un’ontologia a presentarsi come una “filosofia 
militante” é piuttosto rilevante. Probabilmente in tutto questo vi é qualcosa di 
post-hegeliano: in Hegel l’ontologia @ scienza di un cambiamento (storico) che 
possiede una struttura e il senso (nascosto) é dato dall’interpretazione di questa 
struttura comunque presupposta. La “filosofia militante” presuppone un 
cambiamento ma non un senso. Quest’ultimo, di cui pure si presuppone 
l’indispensabilita, é l’esplicito risultato dell’ attivita del pensiero post-metafisico. 
Ovvero come scrive Vattimo, 1’ontologia debole, 1’“ontologia dell’ attualita”, si 
“configura come il compito di mostrare, all’interno dell’apertura dell’essere che 
caratterizza la modernita, i tratti di una nuova apertura che abbia tra i suoi 
caratteri costitutivi la possibilita di una ricostruzione del senso unitario 
dell’esistenza oltre la specializzazione e la frammentazione proprie della 
modernita” (Postmoderno, tecnologia, ontologia 89). 

Per |’altro verso, in questo modo Vattimo respinge l’idea di un’autonomia 
della politica. La politica non ha fondamento, ma tra democrazia e filosofia pud 
esservi un rapporto positivo. In particolare, la politica non sembra essere da sola 
in grado di emanciparsi dalla metafisica. In un certo senso, per instaurare la 
democrazia, la tolleranza e la liberta, sembra prefigurarsi la necessita di una sorta 
di alleanza tra politica e filosofia (ontologia debole), una alleanza da cui 


74 Giovanni Mari 


sembrano dipendere anche le sorti stesse della modernita. E questa alleanza é la 
militanza della filosofia. 


3. Sie accennato alla centralita della tesi del carattere violento della metafisica. 
Tesi che Vattimo condivide, almeno parzialmente, con altri pensatori, quali 
Nietzsche, Heidegger, Adorno o Levinas. In Metafisica, violenza, 
secolarizzazione (Filosofia ’86), Vattimo precisa la propria posizione su questo 
importante tema e, tra l’altro, scrive che se la metafisica consiste nella “credenza 
in una struttura stabile dell’essere che regge il divenire e da senso alla conoscenza 
e norme alla condotta”, cioé nella credenza di un fondamento, allora questo 
“meccanismo del rimando al Grund, della fondazione”, é cid che “‘in tutta la sua 
storia, ha sempre costituito la base della violenza metafisica” (Filosofia ’86 71- 
81). L’oltrepassamento della metafisica, e quindi del meccanismo del 
fondamento, coinciderebbe, quindi, anche con l’abbandono della violenza della 
metafisica. Questa trasformazione della filosofia equivarrebbe al costituirsi di 
“ragioni filosofiche” a favore della societa democratica. La battaglia contro la 
metafisica e per un indebolimento dell’essere @ tout court anche una battaglia dal 
significato politicc a causa del carattere violento, autoritario e totalitario che 
sarebbe connesso alla metafisica e al suo “meccanismo” del fondamento. In 
questo senso, quindi, la filosofia che conduce tale battaglia é “‘militante”, milita a 
favore della democrazia, si schiera dalla parte della tolleranza e della liberta contro 
il fondamento, la metafisica e la violenza connessa. 

Non siamo, evidentemente, in presenza di giudizi storici. Perché, anche se 
dovessimo accettare l’idea che il meccanismo del fondamento é comunque una 
violenza, occorrerebbe poi — se non altro per poter dare un senso al nesso tra 
post-metafisica e democrazia — ben distinguere tra la violenza del caso in cui la 
metafisica fonda una politica e i casi in cui l’essere non é pensato in relazione 
diretta e esplicita con la politica, cioé con un piano pubblico e collettivo che 
implica anche 1’uso dell forza, e non solo quello della comunicazione ragionata. 
In altre parole, se @ verosimile che una politica ispirata a qualche metafisica 
possa facilmente cadere nell’intolleranza e nell’autoritarismo, mi sembra che si 
possa altrettanto facilmente ammettere che di per sé la metafisica non debba 
necessariamente essere socialmente e politicamente pericolosa. D’altra parte é la 
democrazia sia una conquista del mondo moderno, sia un’idea dei rapporti 
individuali e collettivi in cui, accanto alla tolleranza e a tutta una serie di liberta, 
é dato di ritrovare, almeno fino a quando tutti non la penseranno allo stesso 
modo, conflittualita, vincitori e vinti, forme di coercizione e di violenza pil o 
meno esplicita. Né @ possibile, infine, scordare come le moderne democrazie 
siano sorte dalla violenza rivoluzionaria. La democrazia e il libero mercato, 
insomma, sin dalla loro origine, ammettono e si sorreggono su tutta una serie di 
violenze che l’eccessiva insistenza sul carattere violento della metafisica pud 
offuscare. 

Eppure la tesi di Vattimo possiede un’indubbia forza seducente. Essa sembra 


a 


— 








Post-moderno e democrazia i) 


fare appello ad aspetti essenziali del nostro odierno modo di vivere. Perché se noi 
siamo prima di tutto degli individui inseriti in una rete di comunicazioni, tutto 
cid che questa rete pud spezzare, delegittimare o non far funzionare, acquista 
immediatamente il carattere di una violenza nei confronti della nostra identita. La 
tradizionale origine di sicurezza rappresentata dal Fondamento e dalla Verita 
sembra potersi essere trasformata in causa di preoccupazione. II “meccanismo” 
del fondamento o il richiamo alla verita, infatti, tendono a porre un termine alla 
discussione e a togliere legittimita al carattere autoreferenziale del sistema dei 
linguaggi. Non solo, ma appaiono anche implicare la fine di ogni pluralismo. In 
questo senso effettivamente violenta pud apparire la causa di questa delimitazione 
della discussione e di questa fine dell’ammissione di una ricca molteplicita di 
linguaggi. 

Con tutto cid rimane aperto il problema della natura del nesso tra metafisica 
e violenza. Si tratta di una relazione di implicazione o di possibilita, ovvero, di 
una necessita universale oppure determinata? Siamo sul terreno della filosofia 
militante, cioé del rapporto tra filosofia e politica. Quando parliamo di violenza 
ci riferiamo a qualcosa di abbastanza preciso, e comunque a una violenza che 
abbia una evidente dimensione sociale e pubblica. In questo caso, come si @ gia 
accennato, il “meccanismo del fondamento” pud determinare violenza pubblica 
solo attraverso la mediazione della politica. Cioé non di per sé, ma solo in quei 
Casi in cui tale “meccanismo” si applica al caso della politica. Si pud 
immaginare una discussione non necessariamente violenta anche tra metafisici. 
Mentre si puo sostenere la violenza di una “metafisica militante”, di una politica 
attuata in nome della Verité e del Fondamento. In questo modo, certamente, il 
blocco modernita-violenza-metafisica perde in gran parte la rigidita e la solidita 
vagamente epocali che gli viene attribuito da Vattimo: la violenza é un effetto 
della metafisica solo a certe condizioni, e, d’altra parte, la democrazia non é fatta 
solo di persuasione comunicativa; a sua volta la modernita non é@ solo 
intolleranza e la metafisica non produce necessariamente effetti violenti. 

Ma soprattutto, mi sembra, per questa strada si pud capire che la filosofia 
militante in favore della democrazia e della liberta non ha semplicemente la 
metafisica come proprio interlocutore, ma la “metafisica militante”, se cosi ci si 
pud esprimere. Questa prima conclusione pud permettere di approfondire il 
significato e 1 problemi di una filosofia militante democratica e non metafisica. 
E anche la seguente questione preliminare: che la ricerca di un rapporto tra 
filosofia e politica, la pratica teorica di una filosofia militante, @ possibile solo 
presupponendo una determinata politica e non semplicemente facendo filosofia, 
ancorché post-metafisica. Il significato profondo della filosofia militante di 
Vattimo, invece, é che per essere democratici in politica é sufficiente essere post- 
metafisici in filosofia. Ovvero che esiste un rapporto di implicazione tra tesi 
filosofiche e programmi politici. Un rapporto che non é metafisico e neppure 
logico, ma storico. Oggi essere di sinistra in filosofia significa essere post- 
metafisici, sostenitori di un’“ontologia debole” e del “pensiero debole”. La 


76 Giovanni Mari 


“funzione” del fondamento metafisico, distorta ma conservata da parte della 
“filosofia militante”, alla fine pud rivelarsi come una forma di nuovo 
determinismo, se non come quella di un vero e proprio nuovo monismo. Perché 
mai dovrebbe essere impensabile che un metafisico sostenga un programma 
politico democratico? oppure che un post-metafisico — ed é il caso di 
Heidegger, su cui ritorneremo — ne sostenga uno antidemocratico? 

In altre parole, anche quando si parla di filosofia militante occorre ristabilire 
con nettezza quella che é una grande conquista del pensiero moderno, cioé la 
distinzione e la reciproca autonomia tra filosofia e politica. D’altra parte é 
proprio a partire dall’accettazione e dalla difesa di questa duplice e reciproca 
autonomia che é possibile parlare di una filosofia militante. La quale se non 
intende né fondare né determinare una particolare politica, non potra che 
presupporla. E se vorra fare questo senza ridursi, come si diceva una volta, a fare 
“il fiore all’occhiello” di quella politica, dovra sia misurare responsabilmente 
determinati ed eventuali effetti storico-sociali delle proprie tesi (cid che dovrebbe 
fare anche lo scienziato), compresi anche quelli della politica di riferimento, sia 
tener conto del significato filosofico di tale politica, dell’autonomo valore 
filosofico che ogni progetto politico pud rivestire. Filosofia militante é 
precisamente quella che contrasta o favorisce questo valore filosofico in base alla 
valutazione politica degli effetti sociali del progetto politico di riferimento e del 
tipo di rapporto (favorevole o contrastante) in cui si collocano gli ipotetici effetti 
sociali della filosofia militante rispetto a quelli del progetto politico in 
discussione. Una filosofia militante a favore della democrazia, della tolleranza e 
della liberta, ad esempio, dovra sia presupporre la democrazia e un giudizio 
politico favorevole sugli effetti politico-sociali di tale forma dei rapporti politici, 
sia individuare il significato e i valori filosofici autonomamente espressi dal 
progetto della democrazia. Solo nel caso in cui si riuscira a dire che tra questi 
valori vi @ anche quello del rifiuto di ogni fondamento si potra proporre 
1’“ontologia debole” come una filosofia militante a favore della democrazia. Ma 
anche in questo caso, cioé per il fatto di poter sostenere tutto questo, non si é 
affatto in grado, per cid stesso, di sostenere anche l’inverso. Anche se veramente 
la democrazia fosse (0 potesse essere) l’antitesi della violenza, la metafisica non 
sarebbe di per sé violenza. Violenta sarebbe sempre e soltanto quella politica che 
la ponesse a suo fondamento, e militante, cioé favorevole a quella politica di 
violenza, sarebbe quella metafisica che si ponesse a fondamento di tale politica. 
Militanza non puo essere di per sé sinonimo di democrazia ed emancipazione. In 
ultima analisi il significato politico di una filosofia militante é@ rintracciabile 
solo all’esterno di tale filosofia, precisamente nel giudizio politico sulla politica 
a favore della quale la filosofia militante si schiera. Solo in questo modo, tra 
l’altro, si pud spiegare che un filosofo post-metafisico come Heidegger possa 
aver militato a favore di una politica antidemocratica, autoritaria e violenta come 
il nazionalsocialismo. La post-metafisica non @ di per sé democratica, come di 
per sé non é violenta la metafisica, anche se, indubbiamente, una politica fondata 














Post-moderno e democrazia TI 


metafisicamente potra difficilmente evitare l’intolleranza e la violenza pit aperta. 
Ma in questo caso, appunto, non semplicemente di metafisica si tratta, ma di una 
“metafisica militante”, cioé di una metafisica che intende insieme fondare e 
presupporre quella politica. 


4. La duplice relazione, quella di contrapposizione tra metafisica e democrazia, da 
un lato, e quella, invece, di alleanza tra ontologia debole e democrazia dall’altro, 
in cui si articola la tesi del nesso tra metafisica e violenza, pud ricevere alcune 
conferme, ma incontrare anche serie difficolta, da alcuni confronti storici. Tale 
nesso, nella storia europea, potrebbe, ad esempio, essere rinvenuto nelle guerre di 
religione (anche se occorrerebbe guardarsi da un giudizio anacronistico). Anche 
per il nazionalsocialismo 0, a maggior ragione, per il fascismo italiano 
compromesso col neoidealismo, occorrerebbe compiere un’analisi precisa. In 
ogni modo appare un po’ semplicistico vedere nel primo, essenzialmente, come 
fa anche Adorno, un esito dell’Illuminismo e una tragedia della ragione 
(Auschwitz), perché non é secondario che la Weltanschauung nazionalsocialista 
sia piena zeppe di mitologie dichiaratamente antiscientifiche e riecheggianti 
culture medieval-romantiche. Qualcosa di analogo si pud dire per 1’umanesimo 
prometeico del fascismo italiano. La retorica, insomma, o il mito, possono 
veicolare altrettanta violenza della metafisica. 

La tesi della violenza della metafisica, almeno sul piano della filosofia 
militante, cioé della ricerca di un rapporto tra filosofia e politica, potrebbe altresi 
essere intesa come una sorta di grande metafora della vicenda del movimento 
operaio e socialista. Una volta interpretato il marxismo ufficiale e ortodosso, il 
materialismo dialettico, come una forma di metafisica, la storia di questo 
movimento pud rappresentare un caso significativo di contrapposizione tra 
metafisica e democrazia e di nesso tra metafisica e violenza (lo stalinismo, il 
Gulag): un caso calzante anche in senso storiografico. Perché é stato proprio a 
partire da una critica filosofica del “fondamento”, cioé della dialettica oggettiva e 
universale, della storia e della natura, che in questa area politica e culturale (e 
vengono in mente i nomi di Korsch, del primo Lukacs e di Gramsci) ci si é posti 
inizialmente il problema della democrazia (ancorché “operaia”) e si é sostenuto e 
personalmente testimoniato (anche a caro prezzo) il diritto al dissenso e alla 
tolleranza. E si potrebbe anche aggiungere, oggi che questa area é ormai passata 
integralmente alla democrazia, che la “filosofia militante”, !’“ontologia debole”, 
si presenta sia come una chiave di lettura di tale vicenda, sia come la proposta di 
una filosofia che occupa il posto e la funzione, “distorcendoli”, che una volta 
erano del marxismo. 


5. Tra i riscontri storici cui pud essere sottoposta la “filosofia militante” di 
Vattimo é difficile non includere la vicenda politica di Heidegger. Si capisce, 
infatti, che il nesso tra fine della metafisica e possibilita di un pensiero 
favorevole alla tolleranza e alla democrazia viene messo fragorosamente in 


78 Giovanni Mari 


discussione dall’altro nesso, quello tra Heidegger e il nazismo: dal rapporto attivo 
e non occasionale, cioé, tra il pensatore per eccellenza della fine della metafisica e 
l’esperienza tragicamente emblematica di una politica totalitaria, violenta e 
antiliberale. Non ho alcuna intenzione di ricostruire, neppure sommariamente, il 
dibattito seguito in Italia alla pubblicazione del libro di Farias.! Piuttosto vorrei 
soltanto cercare di vedere, nell’ottica delle precedenti considerazioni, come il 
“discorso militante” é uscito fuori dalla prova — non facile, occorre riconoscerlo 
— di una possibile confutazione sulla base di elementi accusatori tratti proprio 
dall’ esperienza filosofica militante dell’autore (Heidegger) di quelle tesi che sono 
state poste all’origine di una possibile filosofia militante di tutt’altro segno: 
liberale, democratica, ecc. 

Una volta stabilita la differenza tra modernita, metafisica, violenza da un 
lato, e post-modernita, post-metafisica, e democrazia dall’altro, l’adesione di 
Heidegger a una politica di violenza pud essere spiegata o con la persistenza nel 
pensatore tedesco di una metafisica (questa é la tesi di Derrida in De I’ Esprit), o 
con l’ammissione che la post-metafisica pud ugualmente contemplare una 
filosofia militante a favore del totalitarismo come della democrazia. Ovvero si ha 
che l’avvento del pensiero che l’essere non é, che non vi é alcun fondamento, 
non inaugura di per sé e necessariamente la possibilita di una filosofia militante 
a favore della democrazia e della liberta politica. Il perseguimento di quest’ ultimo 
tipo di filosofia @ garantito soltanto dalla responsabile assunzione della 
democrazia e quindi uno spirito antidemocratico, ancorché eccellente post- 
metafisico, per quanto concerne i rapporti tra filosofia e politica sara pit 
facilmente spinto ad assumere tesi filosofiche militanti a favore del totalitarismo. 
E questa una scelta, tuttavia, che di per sé non pud essere considerata un errore 
filosofico. E se in Heidegger vi é, come sostiene Derrida, della metafisica 
residua, questa non spiega |’adesione di Heidegger al nazismo, ma, semmai, la 
sua idea di filosofia militante a favore di tale politica: l’idea, cioé, di una 
fondazione e di una legittimazione filosofica del nazismo avanzate dal filosofo in 
nome della Verita, come ha scritto Alessandro Dal Lago. L’adesione di Heidegger 
al nazismo é una tragica scelta politica che occorre prima di tutto sottoporre a un 
giudizio politico. Gli altri tipi di giudizio — filosofico, morale, ecc. — non 
possono che venire successivamente e la loro formulazione non potra non tener 
conto dell’essenziale giudizio politico. In questo senso, anche dal punto di vista 
della democrazia, la scelta politica di Heidegger non puo invalidare tutta la sua 
filosofia, ma, semmai, solo la sua filosofia militante. 

Quello che é certo, comunque, almeno ai miei occhi, é che anche l’esempio 
di Heidegger conferma |’impossibilita a dare qualsiasi carattere di necessita al 
nesso tra metafisica e violenza, e quindi di rigidita ai due blocchi di modernita- 


1 Tra la numerosa bibliografia citiamo “Aut-aut”, 226-27 (luglio-agosto-ottobre 1988), che 
contiene numerosi interventi raccolti sotto il tema “II filosofo e l’effettuale”, e, di diversa 
impostazione, Rossi. 








Post-moderno e democrazia 719 


violenza-metafisica, da un lato, e di post-modernita-post-metafisica-democrazia, 
dall’altro: polarita tra due famiglie di nozioni che l’“ontologia debole”, cioé l’idea 
dell’essere come “evento”, tende a trasformare in differenza cronologica dal netto 
significato epocale. La liberazione da questo tipo di nesso che si ottiene col 
riconoscimento di un valore prevalentemente politico all’adesione di Heidegger al 
nazismo é contemporaneamente anche liberazione della politica da un comando 
necessario della filosofia, e autonomizzazione della filosofia dal potere politico. 
Questo non vuole affatto dire né negazione della possibilita di un giudizio 
filosofico, morale, ecc. sulla politica e i suoi effetti sociali, istituzionali, ecc., 
né sottovalutazione del significato filosofico che pud rivestire ciascun progetto 
politico. 

Vattimo ha teso a non dare molta importanza al dibattito sollevato dal libro 
di Farias. Tuttavia, quando si é soffermato sull’episodio del rapporto tra 
Heidegger e il nazismo, non ha mancato di formulare una valutazione filosofica. 
E lo ha fatto a partire dalla nozione (centrale in tutta la sua filosofia) di 
Verwindung, che “indica un oltrepassamento che ha in sé i tratti dell’accettazione 
e dell’approfondimento . . . della convalescenza . . . della (dis)torsione .. . 
‘rassegnazione’” (La fine della modernita 180). Per esempio scrive Vattimo: 
“L’alternativa al rovesciamento della metafisica (in una metafisica nuova) e al 
silenzio rumoroso della resistenza utopico-negativa é la ‘distorsione’ della 
metafisica intrapresa da Heidegger (certo, con tutti i rischi e gli sbandamenti che 
essa per lui ha comportato, anche senza voler dare completamente ragione a 
Farias)” (Predicare il nichilismo? 112). Il nesso tra Heidegger e il nazismo é 
quindi un episodio della Verwindung, della “distorsione” e “convalescenza” dalla 
metafisica che tuttavia ammette un “bisogno” della metafisica (e della violenza, 
occorrerebbe aggiungere, almeno secondo i canoni di Vattimo). La Verwindung 
sembra assumere qui toni piuttosto forti e drammatici. Essa @ un possibile 
sbandamento, e, soprattutto, un rischio. Dietro di essa vi @ l’esigenza di 
“continuita dell’esperienza”, la ricerca di una “ricomposizione” nel momento 
stesso dell’abbandono e della volonta dell’oltrepassamento. In una parola si. 
propone che I’esperienza della Verwindung, intensa come |’esperienza universale 
e centrale di tutta un’epoca, copra il nesso tra Heidegger e il nazismo. In questo 
modo, analogamente a Derrida ma forse ancora di pil, si sottrae Heidegger da 
ogni determinata responsabilita politica individuale e lo si colloca in un quadro di 
Verwindung epocale. 

Mi rendo conto che sarebbe un voler forzare le parole sostenere che in questo 
modo si é ricaduti in qualche filosofia speculativa della storia, con le sue epoche 
— la Modernita e la Post-modernita — e le transizioni: |’eta della Verwindung. 
Il fatto @ che questa specie di partita a scacchi col passato giocata dal “‘pensiero 
debole” costituisce un gioco in cui tutto viene oltrepassato ma non criticato, 
conservato ma distorto, definito insieme insufficiente e indispensabile; un gioco 
che, tra l’altro, non ammette una periodizzazione effettiva, nel senso che gli 
stessi confini tra passato e presente risultano indefinibili: sia perché le epoche 


80 Giovanni Mari 


~ (come la Modernita) ereditate dalla filosofia metafisica della storia vengono 
anch’esse distorte, sia perché per tale definizione manca la continuita storica su 
cui ritagliare le fratture temporali. L’eta della Verwindung @ un’eta perenne: in 
questo preciso senso il Post-moderno é la “‘fine” della storia. E in questo modo si 
riesce anche a “‘oltrepassare”, “accettandola”, la tesi hegeliana della fine della 
storia. 

Non di fronte a una filosofia speculativa della storia, allora, siamo di fronte, 
quanto a una filosofia “debole” della storia. Una filosofia in cui le epoche, come 
Modernita o Post-modernita, non sono propriamente delle periodizzazioni di un 
tempo lineare, ma, come dire, maschere epocali senza pretesa cronologica, 
connessioni epocali che accadono in un tempo di per sé amorfo e indeterminato. 
E pur tuttavia, misteriosamente, anche nel pensiero post-metafisico il tempo 
trascorre e a un certo punto qualcosa non tiene pit: “consumarsi”, “dissolversi”, 
“non sussistere pit”, “non funzionare pil”. Queste e analoghe espressioni sono 
impiegata da Vattimo per segnare la fine “epocale” di qualcosa che 
precedentemente appariva irrinunciabile: come la verita o il fondamento. Ma il 
nuovo appare direttamente indicibile, irraggiungibile e in quanto tale svalutato. 
Rimane come prigioniero del passato e del suo “bisogno”. E quest’ ultimo risulta 
pil’ acuto nel momento in cui un aspetto del passato appare insostenibile e 
1*‘oltrepassamento” pit urgente. E proprio alla luce di questa condizione epocale 
perennemente in sospeso tra un passato “consumato” e un futuro cui si volgono 
le spalle che si cerca di spiegare anche la scelta politica di Heidegger. In questa 
non si dovrebbe semplicemente vedere un filosofo politicamente nazista, ma 
invece un filosofo post-metafisico impegnato in una “rischiosa” operazione di 
Verwindung. In questo modo, paradossalmente, la storia, l’epoca, la post- 
filosofia della storia di Vattimo produce esattamente gli stessi effetti 
giustificativi e “legittimanti” del comportamento politico della moderna filosofia 
speculativa della storia, dello “storicismo” e del sociologismo. 


6. La presente nota era iniziata rilevando due cose: primo, che il “pensiero 
debole” aveva contribuito con particolare efficacia a riproporre al dibattito 
filosofico il problema del rapporto tra filosofia e politica e, secondo, che 
1’“ontologia debole” non intendeva disperdere ma anzi mantenere, ancorché 
“distorta”, la funzione della metafisica di fondare la politica. Alla fine del 
precedente paragrafo e sulla base del caso Heidegger (che ha il privilegio di essere 
l’unico esempio storico di un certo rilievo del rapporto tra pensiero 
consapevolmente post-metafisico e politica effettiva), sono giunto alla 
conclusione che le forme in cui la “filosofia militante” (di Vattimo) sostituisce 
la metafisica in quella funzione fondante possono produrre effetti di 
legittimazione e di giustificazione assai analoghi, se non proprio identici, a 
quelli della moderna filosofia della storia. Se si accetta questa conclusione si deve 
altresi ammettere che la nozione di Verwindung, se per un verso permette di 
evitare il riferimento al “progresso” e al “superamento” dialettico, per l’altro non 











Post-moderno e democrazia 81 


sembra in grado di garantire né quel distacco dal passato che pure (a suo modo) 
sostiene di voler perseguire, né qualcosa di veramente originale. Il che vuol dire 
che a forza di svalutare il nuovo si finisce per riproporre il vecchio. 

Nei paragrafi precedenti ho anche cercato di sottolineare il pericolo di una 
troppo facile identificazione tra filosofia e filosofia militante. Quest’ ultima, 
infatti, in Vattimo finisce per identificarsi con le diverse formulazioni con cui 
via via la filosofia viene presentata: pensiero post-metafisico 0 post-moderno, 
“ontologia debole” o “dell'attualita”, “pensiero debole” e altre. A parte la 
sorprendente facilita con cui Vattimo, una volta stabilito che si é nel tempo 
dell’essere che non é e che accade, riesce poi a interpretare tutta una serie di 
problematiche filosofiche come altrettante espressioni del pensiero post- 
metafisico: a parte tutto questo, dunque, non si possono sottacere alcune 
conseguenze della confusione teorica tra filosofia e filosofia militante. In questo 
senso ho cercato di ristabilire alcune distinzioni e relative autonomie, in 
particolare tra politica e filosofia e tra filosofia e filosofia militante, cosi anche 
alcuni forti e reciprochi condizionamenti, come quelli che intercorrono tra 
politica e filosofia militante. 

A me sembra che se non rispettiamo queste distinzioni e relative autonomie 
corriamo alcuni seri pericoli, tra i quali soprattutto quello, duplice, di una 
dipendenza della politica dalla filosofia e della connessa trasformazione della 
filosofia in Weltanschauung. La Weltanschauung, che all’occasione pud 
funzionare come una filosofia militante, non pud essere scambiata per il 
paradigma della ricerca filosofica, neppure in una forma indebolita tipo koiné, 
ancorché occorra respingere l’utopia positivistica dell’eleminazione di ogni 
“concezione del mondo”. Quanto alla politica comandata dalla filosofia (sia essa 
una Weltanschauung 0 meno), si tratterebbe di una tesi non post-moderna ma 
premoderna. Questo non significa che la politica e i suoi effetti non possano o 
non debbano sottostare al giudizio filosofico, oppure che la politica non possa o 
debba trovare un alleato nella filosofia (militante). Al contrario, tutto questo @ 
auspicabile che avvenga, se non altro per non rinchiudere la politica in una mera 
logica e tecnica del potere, cid che non potra accadere senza una contemporanea 
influenza della politica sulla filosofia (militante) e un contemporaneo 
riconoscimento dell’autonomo valore filosofico di ogni progetto politico. In 
conclusione, l’aspetto secondo me soprattutto negativo della “filosofia militante” 
di Vattimo é@ un importante effetto che essa tende a produrre nei rapporti tra 
filosofia e politica: quello per cui la posta in gioco decisiva per lo sviluppo 
democratico e delle capacité emancipative della politica consista in una buona 
filosofia piuttosto che in una buona politica. Una volta ammesso questo sarebbe 
poi molto difficile contrastare la volonta del potere politico di rinvenire in una 
filosofia un alleato da allevare e preservare contro tutte le altre filosofie, nonché 
un discorso universalistico in cui ammantare la propria pratica e gli interessi che 
essa privilegia. 


82 Giovanni Mari 


7. C’é infine anche un altro modo, almeno parzialmente diverso e secondo me 
pill interessante, in cui Vattimo presenta la “filosofia militante”; un modo in cui 
la “militanza” consiste nella ricerca di una relazione diretta della filosofia con 
l’“attualita”.2 Nella “Introduzione” a Filosofia ’87, dopo aver contrapposto la 
ricerca di un “discorso filosofico teorico, un discorso militante”, alla “cura 
archeologica dell’eredita disciplinare”, Vattimo scrive: “con il venir meno della 
metafisica . . . é la stessa filosofia che ha visto dissolversi la possibilita di darsi 
una definizione disciplinare sicura, e rischia . . . di divenire discorso ideologico, 
edificante, giornalistico. Inutile dire che, per molti degli autori di questo volume, 
proprio questo rapporto intensificato con |’attualita, con il discorso comune e i 
‘problemi di tutti’, in quanto é il correlato di una trasformazione della filosofia 
conseguente alla fine della metafisica, costituisce un aspetto centrale del 
problema, sfida, vocazione o destino con cui la filosofia oggi, come teoria, deve 
misurarsi” (Filosofia ’87, V-VI1). Qui la connessione é tra teoria, militanza e 
attualita. Nel senso che quella trasformazione della filosofia richiesta dalla fine 
della metafisica (“sia nella sua forma classica, di sapere dell’essere in quanto 
essere; sia nella sua forma moderna, di epistemologia e metodologia”), 
trasformazione che dovrebbe approdare a una filosofia militante, appare consistere 
e potersi realizzare solo attraverso una riflessione sui vari aspetti della realta in 
concorrenza e in conflitto con altri tipi di discorsi dell’attualita. La militanza 
della filosofia, insomma, in questa prospettiva, consiste nella sua capacita a 
strappare ai discorsi ideologici, edificanti e giornalistici i problemi dell’ attualita. 

In questo caso, dunque, la “filosofia militante” piuttosto che porsi il 
problema di costruire “ragioni” in favore della politica (“democratica”) appare 
essere in concorrenza con quest’ ultima e sfidarla sul terreno dell’attualita e della 
ricerca autonoma di un senso del presente vissuto da tutti. Non é chiaro quanto in 
Vattimo queste due versioni della “filosofia militante” siano conciliabili e 
immediatamente sovrapponibili. In ogni modo esse prefigurano pratiche e effetti 
filosofici non ugualmente accettabili dalla politica che per propria natura tende a 
forme di dominio incontrastato sull’attualita. Da questo punto di vista la 
“filosofia militante” pluralizza i linguaggi del presente, e a suo modo, piuttosto 
che determinare ragioni a favore della democrazia, si presenta essa stessa come 
democrazia. Mi sembra, tuttavia, che anche in questo caso sia opportuno non 
smarrire la distinzione tra filosofia e filosofia militante; una distinzione, tensione 
o dialettica che pud impedire al filosofo di trasformarsi solo in un “maitre a 
penser” e alla filosofia in discorso sapienziale. 


Istituto Gramsci, Firenze 


2 Su questa apertura del “pensiero debole” all’attualita si é soffermato Quaranta. 





Post-moderno e democrazia 83 
Opere citate 


Dal Lago A., “La politica del filosofo”, Elogio del pudore 62-103. 

Elogio del pudore, ac. di A. Dal Lago e Rovatti, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1989. 

Filosofia '86, ac. di G. Vattimo, Roma, Laterza, 1986. 

Filosofia '87, a c. di G. Vattimo, Roma, Laterza, 1987. 

Quaranta Mario, Moderno e postmoderno nella cultura italiana (1980-1990), 
relazione al Convegno di studi “Modermo e postmoderno nella filosofia italiana 
oggi”’, Dorgali-Calagonone, 7-9 ottobre, 1990. 

Rossi P., Paragone degli ingegni moderni e postmoderni, Bologna, I] Mulino, 1989. 

Vattimo G., La fine della modernita, Milano, Garzanti, 1985. 

, Post-moderno, tecnologia, ontologia, ‘““Micromega” 4 (1990). 

, Predicare il nichilismo?, “‘Aut-aut” 226-27 (1988). 





Adelino Zanini 


Instrument / Plan 
Modern Lemmas 
Postmodern Usage 


If it is true that any instrumental object, which can cause innovative effects, 
proposing itself as a distinctive instrumentum, receives social approval based on 
specific alternatives which it may or may not satisfy; and if it is also true — as 
R. Linton affirms — that the instrumental innovation must be intrinsic in a 
cultural continuum made up of acquisitions and inevitable temporal dispersions; 
if this is true, maybe it is not far-fetched to ask oneself if and how this can go 
on happening in a greatly dilated space which is occupied by the “community of 
instruments” on the present-day scene. Such a scene is unsuspected for 
anthropomorphical passions — and for this reason “disenchanted” — and, 
moreover, never satisfied with any transfigurations of an electronic and tentacular 
Atlas. 

This question, rather than far-fetched, may even be radical, and, of course, it 
is insofar as it is able to grasp as nodal the connections existing between the 
forms of the bodies — individual, collective, social, political — the shapes of 
the instruments — whether they are vulgar ferramenta or refined instrumenta 
imperii — and the causal connections which determine their use, defining them 
as used by or on bodies, according to a “modern” discriminant. 

We can obviously suppose that from a particular point of view such a 
synthetic discriminant may even seem to be a simulated simulacrum, in itself 
unimportant in its archaic “critical-modernity” (Baudrillard). Or, I suppose, it 
may appear to ignore the actual typology of an “instrumental community” a la 
Lyotard. In any event, we accept the “modern” formulation of the question. On 
the other hand, because the roots and the generating contexts of postmodern 
knowledge are as manifold as the interpretations of post-industrial assumptions 
which underlie them, it is not unusual to see some startling short-circuits, 
whose rays often shine on the fragments of what is perhaps an unassimilated 
Modernity. A scholar like Ivan Illich, for example, testifies this conception by 
his reflection on instrumental society, whereby it does not seem impossible to 
imagine a return of the Modern as an unsolvable puzzle, or the persistence of a 
vernacular illusion as a place which is still, although unconsciously, modern: a 
place of the “rediscovered” instrument in its primitive, but undefined, symbolic 
valency. 

Many of the problems inherent in the relationship between social bodies and 
“community of instruments” are relative to the symbolic complexity of the 








Instrument/Plan: Modern Lemmas, Postmodern Usage 85 


Many of the problems inherent in the relationship between social bodies and 
“community of instruments” are relative to the symbolic complexity of the 
instrumentum in so far as objectified, “technical” structures: it is an archaic 
magical utensil, communal symbol of the arts, dead labor, accumulated 
knowledge, the means of instrumental action. Obviously, this is a general 
assumption, legitimated by a century of anthropological research and 
philosophical “torments,” which we find at the base of Illich’s broad research 
into the structures of convivial society. 

Basically, convivial society is that social organization where the 
“community of instruments” is subservient to the aims of the person who is 
integrated in the collectivity in which instrumental action — backed-up by far- 
reaching organizations, by trusts, by the State — is banned because it supposes 
submission to totalizing institutions. On the other hand, the preserved 
instrument, whose function should conform to the energy regime of human 
metabolism as far as possible, will therefore be the one whose structure 
encourages personal discovery, surprise, rather than a specialistic view, which is 
a known forerunner of instrumental integration. Illich’s research centers around 
the analysis of the irreducible opposition between instrumental society and 
convivial, transparent, post-industrial reconversion of the instrument, in the 
radical awareness of the upheaval this preservation “might” involve. This 
awareness is widely found in postmodern knowledge. In this particular case, 
however (and this is the problem), it is so not because it takes upon itself the 
inevitable “‘tragicalness” of the instrumental society (Formenti), but, rather, 
because it hypothesizes its sweetest subversion. 

The hypothesis is legitimate only insofar as it is the result of a “radical 
research” and of a qualitative change in social living. Besides, the underlying 
“critical” will opens up to a (real) utopia, which is not interested in being 
legitimated by any kind of postmodern knowledge. It is not my intention to 
posit an axiological question; on the contrary, from a logical point of view, a 
first radical question seems inevitable. In fact, in the horizon of post-industrial 
society and within the different models of knowledge which it produces and 
which Illich considers, the issue is whether there is room for a “critical” 
assumption of an instrumental society, or, with such presuppositions and in this 
context, whether the tragic “playing-one-out-with” the impersonal instrument is 
the only possibility. 

This seems to be Illich’s first query, which he indirectly addresses to so- 
called postmodern knowledge. This is also a material, political query, since [lich 
does not disdain but, on the contrary, he invokes a declared “‘political reversal” at 
least in his best known work (1973). This query, however, is aporetical. In fact, 
what such a political reversal is unable to unravel because of its being played 
contradictorily on the razor’s edge of an unresolved Modernity, is the persistence 
of instruments into which political reversal cannot get its teeth. For this reason, 
political reversal is also unable to find credibility, because it has given up those 


86 Adelino Zanini 


modern presuppositions which were means of critique. The question as to the 
irreducible symbolic valency of the instrumentum, therefore, is no longer radical, 
for it constantly brushes against an unresolved Modern. 

In actuality, the instrument is a symbolic being (“entita”) whose complexity 
and magical depth — irreducibly extrinsic to anthropos — cannot be simplified 
even when radical social changes take place. Mircea Eliade, among others, in the 
first book of his Histoire des croyances (1975), recalls how the instrument is not 
an extension of human organs even for the paleoanthropus, but a symbolically 
distinct tool, recognized as the “tool of tools,” whose role is to forge what 
prehistoric beings by themselves cannot forge. The same tool, then, is the only 
means which, with fire, enables the smith, who is a diviner because he holds the 
secrets of metals, to alter the rhythms of “maturation” of the earth’s mineral 
fruit, thereby producing and reproducing tools. In this way, the smith’s art is 
divine and demoniacal, since he makes use of tools to reproduce tools which can 
probe the arcane depths of the commune Mother Earth. The tool, being 
irreducible to the harmony of the tribal body, dominates the smith insofar as he 
transforms the natural rhythms, exposing the social anthropos to the gods’ anger 
(Eliade, 1977). 

It is well known that in the historic epoch the progressive transformation of 
alchemic knowledge into technical-rational knowledge has gradually eliminated 
the magical nature of the tool, its unknown divining power. In its attempt to 
subjugate the tool positivistically or historic-dialectically, Western Philosophy 
continues to recognize in it the “Other”: that which is extrinsic and irreducible to 
the Ego, which no longer is anthropos but Ich. On the other hand, returning to 
Illich, we see that these philosophies of development, based on the assumption 
that the human plays a role in instrumental action, no longer provide adequate 
knowledge for even an extreme simplification. 

We are, therefore, led to think that also Illich inevitably accepts the 
symbolic irreducibility of the tool as shown by Mircea Eliade. In reality, such is 
not the case even in Illich’s recent works (1982). However much the “critical” 
message is lacking within a postmodern context, the stigmatization of the 
sexually emancipated society — economically neutral and in actuality sexist — 
“tragically” assumes gender alone as the place of the complementary 
differentiation of the sexes, within which, however, the tool should be able to 
reconquer a primitive, vernacular, denied symbology. 

What transpires in this scene is the awareness of the symbolic irreducibility 
of the impersonal unisex instrument, which is the vehicle for neutrum 
oeconomicum and male despotism. On the other hand, the hoped for freedom 
from an apparently emancipated sexist society is possible in the vernacular 
gender, where the sexual differentiation is the principle of complementarity 
between the sexes, bodies, and convivial instruments. But such freedom is also 
conceived as a “return,” which admits the alteration of the symbolic structure of 
the tool. Again, what is being pushed to the fore is the “critical” threshold, the 




















Instrument/Plan: Modern Lemmas, Postmodern Usage 87 


reformulation, the hope of being able to preserve particular tools by changing 
their social placing and consequently their symbolic complexity. 

Although I do not intend to deny the social mutability of the nature of the 
instrument, I must point out that the mutation of the social context does not 
structurally guarantee in itself such a hope. In substance, Illich’s strategy 
constantly brushes against the Modern without however preserving its true 
paradoxicality, or rather its likely impossibility to attain fulfillment. Although 
this may be viewed as a symptom of weakness in the “languages,” I would rather 
see it as the fruit of a complexity of “modern things.” 

The political philosophy of Giorgio Ruffolo, whose ten year attention to 
the issues of planning reflects a growing interest in the relationships between the 
instrumental society and political planning (“programmazione”), confirms this 
impression within a far more disenchanted context, which, upon closer analysis, 
is still specular to Illich’s. The analogy, of course, must be grasped on the 
assumption that it is possible to control instrumental action, that excess of 
might (“potenza”) which, if removed even further from the dynamics of power 
(“potere”), can only overflow (Ruffolo, 1988). But, first and foremost, the 
analogy must be grasped — as it is particularly explicit in La qualita sociale — 
in that anxiety of the European political rank which, in the sixties, attempted 
unsuccessfully to channel instrumental economic action onto the lines of 
planning. The analogy must also be grasped on the basis of its being able to 
rationalize the manifest irreducibility of the “instrumentations,” which of course 
are no longer magic but social. 

In Ruffolo’s sociological reconstruction appear at least two relevant sides: 
the pars destruens, which is connected with the theoretical examination of the 
elements which explain the forces of crisis in the seventies, and the pars 
construens, which is aimed at defining a philosophy-of-different-development. As 
to the first aspect, the lesson has become canonic. Ruffolo points out the vast 
changes which have occurred and are occurring in the social legitimation of 
politics and in political economics vis-a-vis the seventies. The referents, which 
should have guaranteed, regulated, and organized to a certain extent the 
quantitative growth of the main economic variables, have gone beyond any 
reasonable crisis. For different reasons, the Market and Welfare, in their 
opposing designs, are on their deathbed. Indeed, neither doctrine has been able to 
foresee the failure of a “self-centering” social-political system; Keynesian 
doctrine, above all, has not found a way to understand the crisis looming in the 
cycle of prosperity. The lack of any political alternative, connected with the 
faltering value of planning in the Market and in Keynesian doctrines, have made 
the proliferation of political requests for change uncontrollable. At the same time 
that the changing subjects needed the flexibility of a qualitative development, the 
offers made by the political market were always linked to a rigid quantitative 
growth. 

The spread between supply and demand was bound to degenerate into 


88 Adelino Zanini 


paradoxical simplification. In fact, if it is true that welfare politics could no 
longer act as the efficient regulator of a completely renewed, flexible and hetero- 
directed system, for the very same reason the rediscovery of a “reformed” Market 
did not add and does not add any clarifying elements. The indispensable 
theoretical somersault cannot be made until we accept the preeminence of 
qualitative development. 

Such a preeminence is above all defined as a flexible link in the changes that 
occur in society. After one has abandoned the “modern” logic of growth based on 
a self-centering social organization, qualitative development becomes essentially 
the capacity to synthesize amidst diversity and different “regional” capabilities of 
social planning. Explicitly, this notion implies establishing programs for 
processes of advancement, which no longer refer to arbitrary quantitative 
indicators, but to “ecological” equilibria. It also means excluding simplistic dual 
logics of the type either State or Market, and planning always wider margins for 
the de-reification of social time by means of acquired technological maturity. On 
the whole, this requires accepting multicentered and hetero-directed social 
planning, which is coherently feasible in so far as we can see in the immaterial 
production of information the crossroads of present-day social conditions. 

The thesis which Ruffolo proposes, certainly not new (Russo and 
Silvestrini; Giovannini), has, however, a distinguishing feature: it does not 
express a culture of opposition but a culture of government; namely, the 
responsibility of planning-without-deferment is deliberately taken on by 
Ruffolo’s thesis. Hence derive its specificity and its never sufficiently 
disenchanted logic. For this reason, Ruffolo’s thesis can be accused of being 
anything but utopian. 

Planning (‘“‘progettare”), therefore, is synonymous with organizing social 
information, for the will to plan in order to organize the change which is already 
in things is unavoidable. This is Ruffolo’s message to the Left, which is 
perfectly understandable in its pars destruens. As for its pars construens, the very 
synthetic presupposition — the unavoidable will to-plan-in-order-to-reform — 
demonstrates in my opinion the persistence of a strong philosophic aporia. In 
the end, everything has been considered except the key word: planning 
(“progettare”). Why? 

That this planning evidences utopian open-mindedness seems, nevertheless, 
an unfounded objection. In the end, this utopianism is only a secondary 
ingredient, while the recurrent and invoked reformistic dimension of “planning” 
should be measured according to its incapacity to accept the inherent limits of 
the “tragic”; namely, a controlled “different” (“diverso”) development. What is 
“tragic” is the realization of the factual abyss between the will to plan and the 
difficulty in seeing in operation what is planned. In Ruffolo’s work, this 
difficulty is overcome. Vis-a-vis his pars construens, one could oppose the a- 
governability of complexity to the auspicious “planning.” This objection, 
however, might be unjustly conclusive. For it proposes once again the 











Instrument/Plan: Modern Lemmas, Postmodern Usage 89 


problematic instance on which Ruffolo bases his critical and founded reasoning, 
where he reveals the slightly perverse nature of a particular sociology. To the 
Left he directs such key words as will, subjects, and projects, which are as 
modern as “the challenge of State socialization” (Rapporto XX) and as the plan to 
“ask ourselves what we would like our own society to be like” (La qualita 
sociale 4). 

What is problematic is not so much the consequential humanistic appeal to 
be protagonists in this planning, but rather the removal of the awareness of the 
limits inherent in the planning of a society which is completely instrumental. 
No reflection on the logic of the instrument is present here. It is no chance that 
in Ruffolo’s discourse the very key-words an unchanging Left has already 
extolled with no recent fruits are absolutely indeterminate. Ruffolo, for example, 
does not say what the term “subjects” means. Nevertheless, he points them out 
and indicates their might in an instrumental key, because such is their strength if 
they remain unchecked by power. Are the subjects, therefore, disinterested and 
unwilling to deal with predetermined change — impossible authors of their 
destiny, as Censis political philosophy would have us to believe — or are they 
something else, subjects for another society? Ruffolo believes that they are not 
something else, that they are just themselves, because society is this one, and in 
continuous becoming. 

Such is the characteristic of a completely transparent and static democracy, 
whose “tragic” condition remains unsaid. The appeal to a will to plan (“volonta 
progettuale”) is valid precisely because it focuses on this problem, but it is not 
so obvious that the will of subjects is plannable or governable. What might be 
confirmed as unplannable is the very change it primes, for politics might be 
confirmed as dispersive and centralized instead of being diffusive. Accordingly, 
the above mentioned hiatus between social potentiality and understanding of this 
society might be unresolvable. “Planning,” in short, even linguistically alludes 
to a Postmodern with too many “Modern” illusions of the sixties. The failure of 
a mode of planning (“programmare”) does not automatically imply that another 
way would be effective, for it may just happen that the etymon is socially sense- 
less. As Dupuy writes, “the only future which the invention of a project can 
bring forth is in some way already contained in the past” (90). 

Therefore, the spread between the actual and the planned is a measure of the 
absent “tragic,” even though the difference is not necessarily a utopian residual. 
It is rather the figure of the existing hiatus between the political dimension of 
power and a post-political, ethical dimension of might, which the removal of the 
“tragic” amplifies: a figure firmly anchored to that splendid modern equation 
which identifies knowledge (of how to plan) and power (to accomplish the given 
task). Not that such modern equation is no longer true. However, more and more 
frequently it may have a singular destiny; namely, a reversal of meaning, 
optimism of the intelligence and pessimism of the will (Negri 208-35), a 
“tragic” loss which no planning can consider without taking on the breach 


90 Adelino Zanini 
“modern things” may remain obscure. 


Istituto filosofico “Comunita di ricerca” , Milano 











Instrument/Plan: Modern Lemmas, Postmodern Usage 91 
Opere citate 


Baudrillard, Jean. L’Echange symbolique et la mort. Paris: Gallimard, 1976. 
Dupuy, Jean-Pierre. Ordres et désordres. Paris: Seuil, 1986. 
Eliade, Mircea. Forgerons et alchimistes. Paris: Flammarion, 1977. 
. Histoire des croyances et des idées religieuses. Paris: Payot, 1975. 
Formenti, Carlo. “La macchina, il cyborg, il mana. L’immaginario scientifico di 
Lyotard.” Aut Aut 179-80 (1980): 63-83. 
Giovannini, Fabio. Le culture dei Verdi. Bari: Dedalo, 1987. 
Illich, Ivan. Gender. London: Marion Boyars, 1982. 
. Tools for Conviviality. New York: Harper and Row, 1973. 
Linton, Ralph. The Study of Man. New York: Appleton-Century-Croft, 1936. 
Lyotard, Jean-Francois. La Condition postmoderne. Paris: Minuit, 1979. 
Negri, Antonio. La fabbrica del soggetto. Livorno: XXI secolo, 1987. 
Ruffolo, Giorgio. Potenza e potere. Roma: Laterza, 1988. 
. La qualita sociale. Roma: Laterza, 1985. 
. Rapporto sulla programmazione. Roma: Laterza, 1973. 
Russo, Antonio and Gianni Silvestrini. La cultura dei Verdi. Milano: Angeli, 1987. 


Giuseppe Patella 


Sapere e potere, estetica e politica 
nell’eta postmoderna: 
verso un postmodernismo della resistenza 


“Nel trascorrere del tempo, bisogna sapersi 
indirizzare al centro dell’occasione.” 
(Baltasar Gracién, Oracolo manuale § 55) 


1. Il postmodernismo tra estetica e politica 


Dopo vent’anni dall’ultima grande teoria estetica (quella di Adorno, Aesthetische 
Theorie), durante i quali si @ assistito, da una parte, al consumarsi delle 
esperienze sia delle avanguardie cosiddette storiche sia delle neo-avanguardie e, 
dall’altra, inverosimilmente, ad una progressiva de-esteticizzazione dell’arte e 
contemporaneamente ad una montante esteticizzazione della societa, la soluzione 
adorniana di fuggire e abdicare di fronte all’ incalzare dell’attualita come unica via 
di salvezza rimasta all’arte, per diverse ragioni rimane ancora uno dei grandi 
problemi con cui deve misurarsi l’interrogazione estetica contemporanea. 

Malgrado l’enorme sforzo teorico adorniano sia stato animato, da un lato, 
dalla esigenza di un confronto con l’estetica tradizionale e, dall’altro, 
dall’obiettivo di un reale superamento del suo orizzonte, attraverso |’impulso 
verso una “estetica dialettica” in grado di indagare fino in fondo il contenuto di 
verita dell’opera d’arte, in realta esso sembra impedire alla riflessione estetica 
contemporanea di riprendere con forza l’impresa teorica legata ad una 
considerazione essenzialmente filosofica della disciplina estetica nel presente, 
poiché di tale impresa sembra averne ricusato la necessita e invalidato l’esistenza, 
attraverso la dichiarazione della sua irrimediabile superfluita e leggerezza. In 
questa prospettiva, vale a dire nell’affermazione della verita dell’ opera d’arte in 
contrapposizione all’epoca storica, l’estetica di Adorno sembra ancora favorire 
l’idea secondo la quale il compito e il progetto dell’ estetica nella contemporaneita 
si sarebbero esauriti. E a ben vedere la situazione attuale dell’estetica sembra 
confermare proprio l’impressione che si ricava dall’esame della posizione di 
Adorno. Una situazione nella sua essenza profondamente contraddittoria: da un 
lato si assiste al trionfo di una dimensione estetica generalizzata, caratterizzata 
dalla estensione di una esteticita diffusa in ogni ambito del reale e del sociale, 
dall’altro alla assoluta mancanza di una teoria filosofica dell’ estetica. 

Ora, pero, in contrapposizione ad una visione catastrofica dello stato attuale 
dell’estetica, la riflessione estetica contemporanea deve finalmente potersi 











Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’ eta postmoderna 93 


assumere il compito di porsi infinitamente a distanza tanto dalla prospettiva che 
decreta la morte dell’arte e 1’azzeramento del presente per continuare a costruirsi 
un futuro, quanto dall’atteggiamento luttuoso di chi si lamenta della perdita di 
senso dell’interrogazione estetica nell’epoca dell’egemonia della tecnica. 
Emancipatosi dalla dimensione auratica e numinosa, ma anche effimera e 
consumistica, nella quale é@ stato costretto finora, L’orizzonte di una estetica del 
presente si deve aprire verso forme dischiusive, libere, responsabili, in cui siano 
declinati affermativamente e senza tragicita il trionfo della ragione strumentale e 
il dominio del Wille nichilistico del mondo della tecnica. 

L’estetica del periodo della dissoluzione delle forme moderne dell’arte si 
muove ormai in una dimensione che non contempla pit la rimemorazione o la 
nostalgia delle esperienze del passato, né in quella del “superamento” dialettico 
dell’estetica tradizionale; essa si vede invece completamente affidata ad un 
confronto reale ed efficace con la storia e in “presa diretta” con I’esistente, che le 
impone un radicale cambiamento di rotta. Contro una ormai perenta estetica 
dialettica e una fragile e fugace estetica per il presente, occorre dunque insistere 
su una pill meditata e coerente estetica del presente, che nella pratica quotidiana 
ritrova le condizioni di una piu concreta ed essenziale effettualita. 

La riflessione estetica della condizione postmoderna rifiuta la logica della 
contraddizione e della sintesi, con cui l’estetica tradizionale ha indagato il campo 
delle distinzioni dicotomiche che guidavano I|’interrogazione sull’arte nella 
modernita (autonomia/eteronomia dell’arte, verita/menzogna del prodotto 
artistico, arte elevata/cultura di massa, innovazione/conservazione, arte 
d’avanguardia/arte tradizionale). Per rispondere alla sfida che la complessita dei 
tempi che stiamo attraversando impone, |’estetica del presente deve avere il 
coraggio di dirsi postmoderna, deve cioé essere in grado di indagare, approfondire, 
il dissolvimento delle categorie tradizionali dell’estetica e guidare la loro 
risoluzione nell’ eta postmoderna. 

Ora, caratterizzata da una debolezza teorica di fondo, |’ interrogazione estetica 
contemporanea pare dibattersi tra un approccio metodologico di tipo storiografico 
e uno di mera indagine sulle singole opere d’arte attraverso l’apporto di varie 
metodologie e discipline. Viene quindi a mancare una riflessione estetica generale 
che tenga conto sia dei sostanziali problemi filosofici relativi alla sua essenza, ai 
suoi compiti e al suo statuto, sia delle continue trasformazioni cui essa stessa @ 
sottoposta attraverso la crescita dei propri oggetti di studio e l’estensione della 
“dimensione estetica”. Il ritorno di interesse nei confronti di questa disciplina, 
che sembra essersi manifestato nel corso degli ultimi anni, @ in realta 
fondamentalmente apparente e fuorviante. 

Questa situazione globale viene ben descritta da Mario Perniola, e 
sintetizzata in questo modo: 


paradossalmente dinanzi a tanta esteticita diffusa, l’estetica diventa sempre pit timida 
e vergognosa, finendo col rinunciar quasi completamente anche a quel ruolo di 


94 Giuseppe Patella 


educazione e di formazione sociale, nonché di orientamento per le arti, che ha svolto 
negli ultimi due secoli e col ridursi ad una disciplina universitaria . . . che si struttura 
organizzativamente secondo prospettive e interessi strettamente accademici. 

(Presa diretta 66)! 


E aggiunge: “la dimensione estetica @ onnipresente, ma la teoria estetica langue”. 

Dunque, malgrado ultimamente un notevole successo anche accademico e 
sociale sembri accompagnare 1’estetica, cid a cui stiamo assistendo nel corso 
degli ultimi anni non si manifesta come un vero ritorno di interesse nei confronti 
della teoria che indaga lo statuto, le dimensioni, i compiti della “vecchia” 
disciplina del bello e delle arti,” piuttosto come |’estensione di un fenomeno di 
esteticita diffusa che si palesa in una rinnovata curiosita per gli “stili di vita” e le 
“belle apparenze", legata alla propagazione di una sensibilita generalizzata 
centrata all’attenzione del superficiale e del decorativo. Dietro il ritorno 
dell’estetica si nasconde, quindi, il trionfo di una esteticizzazione del reale che 
investe ormai numerosi settori della conoscenza: dalla letteratura alla ricerca 
scientifica, dalla politica all’economia, dalla religione alla filosofia, dall’etica alle 
scienze sociali. Di fronte a questa situazione, continua Perniola, 


non si deve chiudere gli occhi sull’aspetto essenzialmente paradossale del successo 
dell’estetica: il trionfo sociale dei “‘valori estetici”, del “buon gusto” va in direzione 
opposta rispetto alla critica radicale che la filosofia contemporanea (a cominciare da 
Hegel e da Kierkegaard, fino ad Heidegger e oltre) ha pronunciato sul modo di essere 
estetico per la pretesa superficialmente conciliativa, per il misconoscimento del 
contenuto sostanziale delle arti, per il suo fondamentale etnocentrismo. Come non 
accorgersi che il “disinteresse estetico” @ parte essenziale della metafisica 
occidentale, la quale ha separato strutturalmente |’apparenza dalla realta, 11 bello 
dall’utile, la poesia dall’azione. 

(II ritorno dell’ estetica1) 


Della situazione attuale dell’ estetica é tuttavia essenziale tener conto per arrivare 
a rivolgere |’attenzione — suggerisce Perniola — all’“estetico”, come modo di 
essere fondamentale dell’estetica, in cui si concentra sia il suo carattere di 
dimensione estetica che quello di teoria estetica. Attraverso questa prospettiva, 
allora, si riesce ad indagare e a cogliere l’essenziale del fenomeno in esame: tanto 
il rapporto della disciplina estetica, costituita da un suo apparato di testi teorici, 
con la prospettiva di una estetica implicita, fondata sulle scelte estetiche 
implicite nei gusti di un’epoca, sul vissuto quotidiano; quanto il rapporto 
dell’estetica con i suoi oggetti, che non sono piu soltanto I’arte, il bello, il 


1 Si veda Presa diretta (65-69), nonché la sua analisi di Verso un’estetica generale in La societa 
dei simulacri. 

Come é noto, il termine “estetica” fu introdotto da A. G. Baumgarten intomo al 1750 per 
definire quella nuova scienza che aveva come oggetto del proprio studio la “conoscenza 
sensibile”, altrimenti definita anche come “teoria delle arti liberali” e “arte del bel pensare”. 

















Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’ eta postmoderna 95 


piacere, ma anche la storia, la vita, la politica, la societa e cosi via (Perniola, 
Presa diretta 70-82). 

Partendo da questa analisi, Perniola rivendica una stretta colleganza tra 
estetica e politica, sapere e potere, “una profonda coappartenenza di conoscenza e 
societa”, pensata tuttavia non in una prospettiva totalizzante, in “un approccio 
carcerario-disciplinare”, oppure in un’ottica “manageriale-bossistica”. L’attuale 
situazione di crisi che investe i rapporti tra potere e sapere, che si manifesta nella 
perdita di consistenza di legittimita del potere e nella mancanza di effettualita 
sociale del sapere — continua Perniola —, é giunta ad un tale stadio cronico che 
non puo pit essere affidata a “managers culturali” e a “bosses politici”, che fanno 
della cultura qualcosa di decorativo e della politica il luogo del dominio mafioso: 


Management culturale e bossismo politico non possono infatti percorrere lo spazio 
post-scientifico e post-ideologico che la fine della modemita apre. Essi vivono sulla 
gestione del patrimonio culturale della modernita, smembrato e snervato, perché 
separato dal rapporto con la societa. Management culturale e bossismo politico 
cronicizzano la crisi socio-culturale. 

(Presa diretta 26) 


Questa crisi, sostiene Perniola, non pud dunque essere “abbandonata alle 
pagliacciate del nichilismo manageriale-bossistico”, ma essere affrontata da 
pensatori e operatori attraverso I’attivazione di quel rapporto di “presa diretta” tra 
sapere e potere, estetica e politica, filosofia e organizzazione sociale che non si 
regge in una prospettiva ordinata gerarchicamente, ma in una dimensione di 
stretta consonanza di pensiero ed esperienza vissuta, cultura e vita corrente, 
Caratterizzata dall’inserimento di ogni evento locale nell’ altro, ordinata mediante 
uno scambio che coinvolge l’insieme delle relazioni. Tale rapporto non 
presuppone tuttavia che la realta sia gia di per sé stessa pienamente culturale: 
anche “se mai come oggi il sociale é stato cosi potenzialmente culturale, né la 
cultura cosi potenzialmente sociale”, scrive Perniola, “proprio la differenza di tale 
rapporto di presa diretta tra sapere e potere, rispetto alle forme tradizionali in cui 
esso si é manifestato nella storia dell’Occidente, sollecita l’intervento di pensato- 
ri e operatori che ne sappiano e ne possano esplicitare, evidenziare, attivare 
l’aspetto costruttivo, che agiscano come ostetrici di una situazione che chiede 
innanzitutto di essere praticata” (Presa diretta 27-28). 

Tale situazione impone dunque |’ attivazione di una operazione culturale che 
svolga una funzione maieutica sul semplice dato culturale e sociale, poiché 
quest’ ultimo da solo non é mai la “‘realt&” con la quale pretende avere a che fare la 
mentalita moderna dell’idealismo, dell’Iuminismo e dell’umanismo, e sul quale 
questa mentalita finisce per imporre il suo dominio e la sua violenza. Il dato 
reale deve essere colto, compreso e indirizzato in una dimensione essenzialmente 
filosofica e culturale che lo sottragga al controllo totalitario dell’ umanismo 
moderno. 


96 Giuseppe Patella 


La prospettiva di una stretta connessione tra sapere e potere, estetica e 
politica, filosofia e azione, pensata in maniera radicalmente differente rispetto al 
pensiero moderno, cosi come viene avanzata da Perniola, apre dunque un nuovo 
orizzonte culturale nel quale il postmodernismo pud essere compreso anche come 
“pratica” culturale, considerato dal punto di vista di una sua effettivita sociale, 
sollecitando cosi una visione del fenomeno del postmodernismo completamente 
estranea a quella solitamente tratteggiata dai suoi detrattori. Si apre quindi un 
nuovo campo di rapporti tra postmodernismo e politica che merita di essere 
adeguatamente approfondito. 

Nel dibattito culturale degli ultimi anni, il rapporto tra postmodernismo e 
politica @ certo stato oggetto di tutta una serie di studi che ha messo in rilievo la 
connessione tra cultura postmoderna e societa contemporanea. Tuttavia, nella 
maggior parte di questi approcci, tale rapporto é stato esaurito esclusivamente in 
termini di contrapposizione e di esclusione. Si @ altresi considerato il 
postmodernismo come un fenomeno essenzialmente estraneo alla politica, il 
luogo dell’apparenza, della leggerezza, dello spettacolo e della futilita 
contrapposto al luogo della realta e dell’effettualita. Ora, a ben vedere, rifiutare di 
riconoscere al postmodernismo una sua valenza anche “sociale” e “politica” 
(come sembra invece emergere dal versante del “distruzionismo” statunitense, 
dalla riflessione di Perniola e per certi versi anche dall’analisi di Lyotard), 
significa negare la possibilita di pensare su altre basi anche il rapporto tra 
pensiero e societa, sapere e potere, e dunque accentuare ancora pil radicalmente 
quella separazione tra cultura e vita, filosofia e organizzazione della societa, 
estetica e politica che ha caratterizzato la prospettiva tradizionale della metafisica 
occidentale, in accezione heideggeriana. In essa, infatti, la dimensione culturale, 
artistica, filosofica, é sempre stata strutturalmente allontanata da quella pratica, 
effettuale, politica e dunque relegata ad una posizione di autonomia, di 
indipendenza, di isolamento; come se la cultura, la filosofia, l’estetica dovessero 
rimanere chiuse all’interno del loro ambito di competenza disciplinare, al riparo 
da qualsiasi infiltrazione e contaminazione del mondo estemo e della societa. Gli 
esiti di questo processo, che appartiene per intero alla storia della riflessione 
metafisica dell’Occidente, li abbiamo continuamente sotto gli occhi: la 
separazione del sapere dalla storia é divenuta marginalita della cultura, la 
dicotomia tra conoscenza e societa si é tramutata in isolamento della ricerca 
(Perniola, Presa diretta 10-14; Dopo Heidegger). 

Oggi pit che mai, ogni distinzione che pone da una parte la scena, 
l’apparenza, lo spettacolo e dall’altra una realt sostanziale nascosta, si dimostra 
del tutto improponibile. E |’attuale trionfo di una generale attitudine nichilistica 
della conoscenza, caratterizzato dalla scomparsa del senso, dall’ineffettualita delia 
cultura, da una dimensione in cui il sapere @ ridotto ad una funzione meramente 
accessoria e decorativa, non @ quindi che il risultato di un processo che affonda le 
proprie radici nell’antichita, e precisamente nelle scelte compiute dalla filosofia 
platonica. 














Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’ eta postmoderna 97 


E dunque lo stesso meccanismo in virti del quale il sapere @ stato 
allontanato dal potere, la cultura dalla societa, la filosofia dalla vita, che continua 
a manifestarsi ancora oggi nella separazione tra postmodernismo e politica. 
Appare quindi necessario ripensare in altri termini tale rapporto. 

E stato recentemente Jiirgen Habermas a richiamare |’attenzione sulla 
questione della relazione tra le teorizzazioni del postmodernismo e le espressioni 
della politica. Tuttavia, egli ha tematizzato questa relazione in un’unica 
direzione: ha cioé completamente identificato il fenomeno del postmodernismo 
con le varie forme di conservatorismo politico presenti nel panorama ideologico 
degli ultimi quindici anni. Nella sua famosa conferenza del 1980 (Moderno 
contro post-moderno), tenuta a Francoforte in occasione del ricevimento del “‘pre- 
mio Adorno”, Habermas solleva per la prima volta la questione del post- 
modernismo in riferimento alle tendenze di tipo reazionario operanti a livello 
politico in diversi paesi occidentali e si trova a qualificare il postmodernismo 
come un segno dei tempi, come un segno della crisi in cui versa il vero progetto 
della modernita e, quindi, a identificarlo con il crescente neoconservatorismo 
degli anni Settanta e Ottanta. 

Ora, per quanto discutibile, non @ necessario condividere 1l’analisi di 
Habermas per accorgersi che il problema della collusione tra tendenze 
neoconservatrici e alcune teorie del postmodernismo esiste. E indubbio che 
molto di quello che negli ultimi anni @ passato sotto 1’etichetta del 
“postmoderno” si sia rivelato scarsamente o debolmente critico, sia dal punto di 
vista culturale che politico. Tuttavia, pare estremamente semplicistico e riduttivo 
liquidare tutto il fenomeno del oe a come conservatorismo, vecchio, 
nuovo 0 giovane che sia. 

In maniera apparentemente dissimile dalle conclusioni di Habermas si 
presenta invece 1’interpretazione del postmodernismo avanzata dal critico 
statunitense Fredric Jameson, secondo la quale, sommariamente, esso 
esprimerebbe la forma culturale eminente del capitalismo maturo, “la logica 
culturale del tardo capitalismo” (Postmodernism). Jameson infatti intende 
comprendere il fenomeno del postmodernismo, piuttosto che come una 
descrizione stilistica, come una “dominante” culturale — vale a dire una norma 
egemonica 0 una logica culturale dominante — e secondo tale prospettiva storica 
pone il fenomeno nel contesto delle trasformazioni del capitalismo, giudicandolo 
sostanzialmente come un sintomo della cultura capitalistica in declino. II critico 
americano invoca, quindi, le categorie del marxismo per spiegare il fenomeno e 
intende situarlo nel contesto di una teoria dello sviluppo della periodicita 
capitalistica per sostenere la validita di tale approccio al postmodernismo. 
Secondo Jameson, allora, il postmodernismo sarebbe caratterizzato da una nuova 
mancanza di profondita, da un indebolimento del senso della storia, 
dall’affermarsi di una tonalita affettiva nostalgica e dunque rappresenterebbe la 
compiuta espressione culturale, sia interna che sovrastrutturale, della nuova fase 
del dominio economico mondiale del capitale e, d’altra parte, il risultato delle 


98 Giuseppe Patella 


trasformazioni della cultura nella societé contemporanea. Ora, anche se in questa 
prospettiva storica Jameson cerca di evitare una concettualizzazione del 
postmodernismo in termini moralistici o moraleggianti, egli tuttavia finisce con 
l’attribuire ad esso le stesse caratteristiche stilistiche ed estetiche esecrabili 
(pastiche, parodia, storicismo, nostalgia, trasformazione della realta in im- 
magine, trionfo del simulacro e cosi via) che i suoi avversari attribuiscono a 
questo fenomeno e con cid ricade in quella stessa visione dalla quale intendeva 
prendere le distanze. In definitiva, allora, nell’ottica storico-dialettica 
(hegelo-marxismo), il critico statunitense inserisce il postmodernismo nel 
sistema di una evoluzione culturale del tardo capitalismo, o capitalismo 
multinazionale, e lo giudica come un momento storico essenzialmente negativo 
che impedisce, dal punto di vista culturale, l’avvento di quella che egli definisce 
una “‘teoria politica radicale” e, dal punto di vista politico, l’emancipazione dal 
capitalismo. A questo punto, senza ricorrere a Lyotard, é evidente che nel caso di 
Jameson ci troviamo ancora in una prospettiva tutta moderna di liberazione dal 
“grande racconto” del capitalismo attraverso l’invocazione del “racconto” non 
meno grande del marxismo, all’interno della quale il fenomeno del 
postmodernismo non é altro che una fase storica del capitale, ancora troppo 
ottimisticamente ritenuta superabile e transitoria. 

Ora, malgrado le riflessioni di Habermas e Jameson sul postmodernismo 
abbiano in qualche modo sottolineato la relazione che intercorre tra 
postmodernismo e politica, nelle loro linee essenziali, perd, esse non si dis- 
costano dalla prospettiva che vede il postmodernismo come un fenomeno 
fondamentalmente estraneo, irriducibile ad una dimensione pratico-politica 
positiva. E certamente vero che alcuni esiti delle teorizzazioni sul postmo- 
dernismo hanno dato ragione alle accuse di neoconservatorismo e di irenismo 
edonistico che da pil parti sono state mosse. Tuttavia, nel caso di Habermas in 
particolare, la valutazione del postmodernismo come fenomeno politicamente 
conservatore, sembra il pretesto con il quale viene volentieri obliata e, quindi, 
taciuta la dissoluzione del potenziale emancipativo dell’ Illuminismo. Questo 
progetto non si é esaurito per colpa del neoconservatorismo dei postmodernisti, 
piuttosto esso é stato invalidato nel suo stesso fondamento per ragioni storiche, 
nel momento in cui é stato inverato. La stessa cosa potrebbe valere anche per il 
discorso di Jameson, a proposito della crisi ormai patente del marxismo e delle 
sue categorie politiche, economiche e culturali. Per una pit proficua elaborazione 
del problema della connessione tra postmodernismo e politica é quindi necessario 
rivolgersi altrove. 

A questo punto é@ interessante vedere come il tentativo habermasiano di 
salvataggio del potenziale emancipativo della ragione dell’Aufkldrung sia stato 
discusso in una prospettiva fondamentalmente differente da Habermas, alla luce di 
una indagine culturale i cui risultati possono essere inseriti all’interno di una 
riflessione teorico-sociale sulla cultura del postmodernismo, dallo studioso 
tedesco Peter Sloterdijk. Per Sloterdijk occorre innanzitutto partire dalla “crisi 

















Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’ eta postmoderna 99 


scintillante” dell’Illuminismo e da quella conseguente della ragione 
soggettocentrica, con i suoi imperativi di controllo sulla totalita del reale e della 
cultura: nella societa e nella cultura contemporanee il delirio totalizzante della 
ragione illuministica si scontra con i processi di inarrestabile frammentazione 
che quella stessa razionalita subisce, finendo per invalidare quegli stessi 
illuministici imperativi totalitari. Dalla dissoluzione del progetto 
dell’Aufkidrung, secondo Sloterdijk, per evoluzione scaturirebbe una nuova 
figura di coscienza, predominante soprattutto a partire dagli inizi di questo 
secolo, identificata con un tipo particolare di cinismo, un neo-cinismo diverso da 
quello antico, un cinismo dei moderni (a questo proposito, tutto il volume di 
Sloterdijk si articola proprio sulla distinzione tra cinismo moderno e cinismo 
antico: nella lingua tedesca due termini distinti indicano i due fenomeni, 
rispettivamente Zynismus e Kynismus) che nella societa contemporanea, 
caratterizzata dalla divisione e dalla frammentazione del sapere e dall’ affievolirsi 
delle opposizioni all’interno del sistema del potere politico, si presenterebbe 
come una sorta di consapevolezza critica dei limiti delle modalita universali della 
ragione illuministica, dice Sloterdijk, come una “falsa coscienza illuminata”.* 
L’essenza del cinismo moderno consisterebbe dunque in questa coscienza critica 
che sa della propria falsita, che conosce e accetta |’altro della ragione, il proprio 
negativo, una soggettivita non ingenua, anche critica, una lucida consapevolezza 
che “pratica” il disincanto nei confronti della realta e ad essa pero finisce per 
arrendersi, per rassegnarsi. A questo punto, la crisi dell’ Aufkldrung cosi articolata 
non puo essere gestita da questa forma di cinismo illuminato che si traduce in 
una mancanza di orientamento della cultura e nel prevalere di una attitudine 
all’omologazione, all’indifferenza, all’eclettismo: allora per Sloterdijk la 
soluzione é questa: contro il cinismo dei moderni, l’unico rimedio consiste in un 
ritorno al cinismo degli antichi. In quest’ultimo infatti, secondo lo studioso 
tedesco, sarebbero gia state elaborate tutte quelle strategie di pensiero 
(contestazione, autocritica, insolenza, distacco critico e cosi via) che ora 
consentirebbero il superamento delle attuali divisioni tra individuo e societa e tra 
teoria e prassi. 

Ora, senza entrare nel merito della risposta fornita da Sloterdijk, occorre 
rilevare che egli, contrariamente ad Habermas, tematizza ampiamente il declino 
del progetto e della razionalita dell’IIluminismo e si sforza di pensare alla 
maniera per uscire dalla crisi in cui sono prese tanto la societa quanto la cultura 
nel mondo contemporaneo: una crisi che non puo pero essere affrontata con il 
ricorso al potenziale emancipativo e culturale dell’ Illuminismo, e neppure da 


3 Per una lucida presentazione e una interessante discussione delle tesi del libro di Sloterdijk si 
pud vedere la conversazione — della quale qui @ stato tenuto ampio conto — cui hanno 
partecipato Luigi Alici, Aldo Masullo, Mario Pemiola, Armando Rigobello e Aldo Zanardo, 
tenuta nel novembre del 1988 presso la II Universita di Roma, raccolta e pubblicata col titolo La 
“Critica della ragion cinica” di Peter Sloterdijk. 


100 Giuseppe Patella 


questa forma di Illuminismo disincantato e spregiudicato, ma che richiede di dare 
una risposta efficace sia alla “tregua della teoria” cui assistiamo, che alla 
“disperazione” degli uomini. 

Dall’analisi di Sloterdijk emerge dunque il bisogno di una diversa 
strutturazione del rapporto tra cultura e societa, filosofia e vita, estetica e 
politica, che non é pit possibile articolare attraverso gli strumenti e le modalita 
della razionalita dell’Aufkldrung, i quali hanno spesso ridotto il sapere a sistema 
di predominio sul reale (tecnocrazia) e il potere a forma politica vuota, senza 
controllo e legittimita (autoritarismo). La crisi ormai eclatante dell’ Illuminismo, 
della modernita, non rappresenta pit soltanto la crisi dei suoi modelli e dei suoi 
ideali, segna ormai la fine della articolazione del legame tra sapere e potere 
secondo I’ideologia della modernizzazione e dello sviluppo, e quindi rappresenta 
la crisi profonda della relazione della cultura alla societa. 

Venute meno le certezze del meccanismo che nella modernita univa la 
praticita della conoscenza e la legittimita del potere in un dispositivo di 
omogeneita immediatamente riconoscibile tra comunita scientifica e potere 
ideologico, fondato sulla validita universale del criterio consensuale, appare 
necessario articolare la connessione tra sapere e potere su altre basi. In altre 
parole, con il declino della civilta politico-culturale moderna, basata a partire 
dall’Mluminismo sul binomio scienza-ideologia, diviene indispensabile ripensare 
in un’altra prospettiva il legame tra cultura e societa. A questo proposito, nella 
situazione di crisi attuale che vede il sapere in una posizione di progressiva 
emarginazione, semplicemente confinato in sfere autonome della conoscenza che 
nulla hanno a che vedere con la societa, la soluzione non consiste nella 
rifondazione di un sapere universale e totalizzante. L’attuale prolificazione di 
micro-saperi rende ormai inaccettabile un macro-sapere globale; parimenti la 
crescita inarrestabile di micro-poteri in seno alla societa contemporanea rende 
ormai inattendibile una ricomposizione unitaria della societa. Se storicamente 
non é mai stato completamente possibile ricondurre il sapere e il potere ad unita 
assoluta, senza che il rapporto di immediata traducibilita dell’uno nell’ altro non 
determinasse la conseguente, scambievole, minorita di uno rispetto all’altro, a 
seconda dei casi, (in questa prospettiva si spiega il nichilismo della cultura e 
l’autoritarismo del potere: vale a dire un sapere senza effettualité ed un potere 
senza consenso), oggi meno che mai non si vede come cid possa avvenire: la 
societa e la cultura non si lasciano pil costringere in una totalita. Nella 
condizione postmoderna, come insiste giustamente Lyotard, é completamente 
tramontata l’eventualita di rifondare una qualsiasi metanarrazione 
onnicompensiva che pretenda unire in un dispositivo legittimante i diversi settori 
della conoscenza. Per la connessione tra sapere e potere nella postmodemita é 
quindi necessario insistere su quella idea di “presa diretta”, avanzata da Perniola, 
in cui pit che sulla identita e sulla conciliazione dei termini di estetica e politica, 
cultura e societa, sapere e potere, l’accento viene spostato su quei particolari, 
mirati, differenziati, peculiari processi di socializzazione del sapere e 








Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’ eta postmoderna 101 


culturalizzazione della societa, sollecitati dalla responsabilita e dalla capacita di 
operatori e pensatori che nella conoscenza e nella pratica quotidiana sappiano 
attivare il rapporto tra l’uomo e la societa. 

In questa differente articolazione della connessione tra pensiero e societa, 
filosofia e azione, la tematizzazione del rapporto tra postmodernismo e politica 
sembra trovare un notevole sostegno concettuale. Di fronte alla tendenza a fare 
della cultura un fenomeno isolato e ornamentale non é piii possibile ignorare i 
richiami alla “mondanita” del pensiero (Spanos e Said), gli sforzi a riflettere su 
un “pensiero-cosa” in grado di dare vita ad un nuovo “‘intellettuale ad alta 
definizione” che prepari una “civilta della cosa” che succede a quella 
dell’immagine (Perniola), l’impegno mirato a raffinare “la nostra sensibilita per 
le differenze” (Lyotard) e, infine, l’apertura verso una reale pratica di resistenza 
all’interno della universale spinta alla conservazione e al conformismo. 
L’insieme di questi impulsi emergenti dal presente del pensiero si muove, allora, 
nella direzione dell’affermazione di una nuova forza ed effettualita della cultura, di 
una consapevole apertura postmoderna all’impegno e, in definitiva, verso una 
profonda coniugazione affermativa di postmodernismo e politica. Continuare a 
riflettere in questa direzione rimane la “cosa”, in senso forte, da pensare, il 
compito del pensiero nel momento in cui l’attuale crisi dei legami del sapere col 
potere impone la necessita di percorrere strade che sappiano confrontarsi 
adeguatamente con cid che sta prepotentemente emergendo nella nostra epoca. 


2. Per un postmodernismo della resistenza 


Giunti a questo punto, si deve riconoscere che l’insieme di quelle elaborazioni 
filosofiche, letterarie, estetiche, politiche attraverso le quali si é cercato fin qui di 
articolare il discorso (a cominciare dal pensiero heideggeriano, Lyotard, 
Sloterdijk, fino alla peculiare riflessione di Perniola), depone complessivamente 
a favore di un postmodernismo di segno contrario rispetto a quello delle 
immediate mistificazioni, delle banali semplificazioni e del disincantato assenso 
nei confronti dello status quo. 

Gia dalla prima elaborazione teorica della “condizione postmoderna” (quella 
di Lyotard) emergeva come il postmoderno fosse ben lontano non solo dal 
sottoscrivere, ma addirittura dall’evocare un atteggiamento di rilassamento o di 
sottomissione. Esso non sembra indulgere neppure per un istante ad una tonalita 
arrendevole e condiscendente. La condizione postmoderna é estranea tanto alla 
sfiducia nichilistica quanto al cinismo apatico e irresoluto, “estranea al 
disincanto, cosi come alla cieca positivita della delegittimazione” (Lyotard 7). La 
sensibilita dalla quale é animata @ scarsamente incline alla commemorazione 
nostalgica e alla profezia dell’utopismo. Essa sembra porre l’accento pit’ che 
sulla conquista di una condizione definitiva dai contorni rigidi, sul suo continuo 
spostamento; pit sull’attivazione dei contrasti, dei dissidi, dei dissensi, dei 


102 Giuseppe Patella 


conflitti, delle diversita, delle eterogeneita, delle differenze, che sul 
raggiungimento dei consensi, delle sintesi dialettiche, delle unita concilianti. 
delle pacificazioni accomodanti, delle identita armoniche, delle omogeneita 
livellanti. 

Pare allora farsi largo cid che si potrebbe legittimamente chiamare un 
postmodernismo della resistenza, che in primo luogo resiste alla facile filosofia 
(postmoderna) del “tutto va”, alla tendenza a fare della cultura un fenomeno 
spettacolare, isolato e meramente ornamentale, al totale dominio di un irenismo 
scanzonato che si manifesta nell’attitudine a combinare tutto con tutto, a 
omologare e appiattire qualsiasi cosa a livello di volgarita, decorazione, 
mediocrita e bassezza. Tale resistenza tuttavia non pud essere assimilata a quella 
espressa in termini di negativité a la Adorno, né avere valore universale; la sua 
funzione sara invece determinata, specifica, contingente e propositiva. Il suo 
movimento differenziale non significa rifiuto, distacco, ma trasformazione e 
trapasso. Il postmodernismo della resistenza non ha nulla a che vedere con 
atteggiamenti di nostalgia, di rassegnazione, di passivita, di avvilimento; é 
alieno tanto dal pessimismo quanto dall’ ottimismo cieco e anacronistico. Esso, 
al contrario, presuppone forza e responsabilité, capacita operativa e savoir faire, 
praticita ed effettualita piuttosto che debolezza e impotenza, vuoto tatticismo e 
mero eclettismo. 

In riferimento ad un campo di indagine di politica culturale, oggi é es- 
senziale porre una distinzione fondamentale tra un postmodernismo neoromantico 
e nostalgico, il cui significato politico e culturale che indulge ad un sostanziale 
appiattimento allo status quo & ben noto, e un postmodernismo della resistenza il 
cui spessore teorico e “politico” questa analisi cerca di indagare. La nuova 
dimensione culturale che si inaugura all’insegna di un postmodernismo della 
resistenza presenta dei caratteri che non sono assolutamente assimilabili a quelli 
della cultura iniziata dal Sessantotto e della cultura degli anni Ottanta. Al 
protagonismo e all’attivismo della cultura della contestazione degli anni Sessanta 
e Settanta, cui hanno fatto seguito il qualunquismo e 1’inerzia (Habermas direbbe 
il “neoconservatorismo” ideologico) del postmodernismo “debole” degli anni 
Ottanta, succede 1’effettualita dell’operazione culturale sul presente: il mondo, la 
societa, la vita diventano il punto di partenza e il punto di arrivo di ogni 
intervento culturale che a null’altro tiene se non a mantenere un rapporto di 
diretta consonanza con quanto di realmente presente giunge a noi dalla storia. 

Dalla cultura della trasgressione di buona parte del pensiero negativo dei 
decenni trascorsi si é passati senza una vera e propria soluzione di continuita alla 
gestione burocratico-amministrativa della cultura da parte dei “commessi 
viaggiatori” del postmoderno, in perpetuo movimento nella speranza di imbastire 
nuove relazioni, tessere altre trame, per riuscire a conciliare superficialmente 
tutto con tutto, attraverso la “chiacchiera” e l’imbonimento. La iniziale carica 
dirompente e innovativa della cultura postmoderna si é@ risolta in una sua 
amministrazione tattico-managcriale. A questo postmodernismo debole e perento 














Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’ eta postmoderna 103 


é quindi necessario opporre un postmodernismo forte e resistente, il cui compito 
sembra essere quello di incrinare fino a rompere quel pregiudizio di natura 
fatalistica secondo il quale nella “fine delle ideologie”, nel tramonto della 
modernita, nel declino dei métarécits ogni posizione culturale e politica vale 
l’altra, ed é dunque aperta e interscambiabile. Anche se di fronte alla cultura della 
“reazione” favorita da tale postmodernismo la tentazione sarebbe quella di passare 
per dei sostenitori del “progetto moderno” @ la Habermas appare invece essenziale 
insistere su un postmodernismo della resistenza, che si permette di fare differenza 
tra conservazione e trapasso, debolezza e forza, immobilismo e trasformazione, 
tatticismo ed effettualita. La fine della modernita non presuppone assolutamente 
un abbassamento della guardia, piuttosto una sua effettiva attivazione. 

Rispetto al profetismo utopico del Sessantotto e al nichilismo debole della 
koiné ermeneutica degli anni Ottanta, il postmodernismo della resistenza implica 
la rinuncia ad ogni prometeismo e vitalismo, ad ogni volonta di padronanza e di 
violenza nei confronti delle cose e del mondo, ad ogni pallida restaurazione del 
soggetto, cosi come ad ogni piccolo-soggettivismo, ad ogni vile tentativo di 
asservimento e sottomissione alla storia. 

In termini etico-politici questo rifiuto sia di un atteggiamento di conquista 
che di passivita nei confronti delle cose e del mondo si traduce in un tipo di 
apertura consapevole, di reale disponibilita verso l’incontro di forme di 
“differenze” politiche, sociali, culturali, religiose, etniche, sessuali, razziali e 
cosi via. In altre parole il postmodernismo della resistenza si pone in una 
posizione di profondo ascolto nei confronti delle cosiddette “minoranze” di ogni 
genere (donne, neri, omosessuali, etnie altre, culture non occidentali e cosi via), 
che gli permette di incontrare veramente tali “diversita” in modi radicalmente 
differenti dalla conquista e dal predominio, accogliendole e salvaguardandole nella 
loro differenza, resistendo alla tentazione di risolvere tali differenze in 
omologazioni forzate, in livellamenti di comodo o in sincretismi semplificatori. 

Alla luce di queste considerazioni é dunque evidente che un altro elemento 
costitutivo del pensiero che si riconosce sotto il nome di un postmodernismo 
della resistenza riguarda l’abbandono della dicotomia tra sapere e potere, cultura e 
societa, filosofia e azione, estetica e politica, letteratura e mondo della vita, che 
per troppo tempo ha caratterizzato il corso del lungo tratto della storia del 
pensiero dell’Occidente. E giunto il momento in cui il pensiero sia gia sempre in 
diretta consonanza con la vita, le cose, il mondo, la storia, poiché ora come mai 
esso ha gia sempre la possibilita di essere vita, cosa, mondo, storia; e cid grazie 
anche a quel grande rivolgimento culturale determinato da quel che @ stato 
chiamato l’avvento della societa informatizzata nella quale ormai da tempo 
viviamo. Se ci si riesce ad aprire verso una nuova prospettiva culturale, secondo 
la quale 1l’essenziale della societa dei mass-media non consiste piu nell’affannante 
ricerca del nuovo e del sensazionale in cui essa ci avvolge nel vincolo del grande 
abbraccio fraterno e conciliante dell’ attualita (tale visione ha prodotto il risultato 
di omologare e appiattire tutti i messaggi prodotti dall’industria culturale su un 


104 Giuseppe Patella 


unico livello, di diffondere l’ideologia dell’effimero e del transitorio), ma nella 
possibilita, favorita complessivamente dai suoi strumenti, di conservare, 
elaborare, trattare e trasmettere data, che si trovano ad essere immediatamente e 
simultaneamente disponibili in ogni dove del pianeta, si scopre in primo luogo 
che ogni singolo messaggio culturale é inserito e collegato in una rete che pud 
consentire la sua disponibilita ad essere fruibile indefinitivamente nel tempo e 
nello spazio e, inoltre, proprio in virti del suo collegamento con la banca, 
l’archivio che l’accoglie, esso si trova ad essere gia sempre un messaggio 
culturale, parte di un patrimonio culturale conservabile e trasmissibile, poiché 
sempre pronto ad essere letto, diffuso e interpretato come tale. 

Ora, é indubbio che a tale postmodernismo si potranno muovere numerose 
critiche, esso potra sollevare diversi interrogativi, potra non essere convincente 
né condivisibile; tuttavia il postmodernismo della resistenza non potra in alcun 
modo essere scambiato o fatto passare per l’esaltazione di un modus vivendi che 
abbia a che fare con una Stimmung malinconico-depressiva, futile e ricreativa 
(troppe volte spacciata per la vera filosofia del postmoderno), salvo che per gusto 
polemico, piacere ludico o totale malafede. In questa prospettiva, le tradizionali 
accuse rivolte alle teorie del postmoderno, riguardanti la loro connivenza con 
atteggiamenti di rassegnazione e di sottomissione, con una tonalita arrendevole e 
nostalgica, non hanno alcun senso di sussistere nel caso del postmodernismo 
della resistenza, poiché esso non vuol dire né immobilismo né conservatorismo, 
ma lento, quasi impercettibile, perd continuo, inarrestabile movimento di 
trapasso, di trasformazione dello status quo. Molte volte é difficile non nutrire il 
sospetto che tali accuse non siano altro che il sintomo dell’atteggiamento 
pretestuoso e reazionario di chi intende minimizzare, e dunque tacere, la rigorosa 
e radicale portata di alcune critiche del reale. 

In realta, che la fine dei “grandi racconti” della modernita, dei grandi sistemi 
di legittimazione del sapere, delle grandi produzioni di senso, non sia vista come 
una grave perdita da vivere in maniera tragica o drammatica e che, invece, possa 
— come si é cercato di mostrare — essere assunta come possibilita di 
sperimentare nuovi orizzonti di liberta per il pensiero e per i soggetti, risulta 
essere il valore decisivo di quel che si é chiamato un postmodernismo della 
resistenza, del quale, al suo livello pit profondo, si intende continuare a indagare 
tutte le capacita e le possibilita. 

Sembra cosi che il significato essenziale di un postmodernismo della 
resistenza sia il notevole contributo che esso offre a indicare l’estensione e la 
valenza di cid che nell’ orizzonte del presente sarebbe ancora possibile chiamare 
una “cultura militante”: una pratica di pensiero che rivendica ancora e sempre la 
dimensione effettuale del sapere. 

Continuare a “misurare l’occasione” di questa linea di pensiero “militante” 
rimane un obbligo impreteribile dell’ interrogazione filosofica contemporanea. 


Universita degli Studi di Roma II 














Sapere e potere, estetica e politica nell’ eta postmoderna 105 


Opere citate 


Adorno Theodor W., Aesthetische Theorie, Frankfurt am Main, Suhrkamp, 1970. 
(Trad. it. di E. De Angelis, Teoria estetica, Torino, Einaudi, 1975; 1977.) 

Alici Luigi, Aldo Masullo, Mario Perniola, Armando Rigobello, Aldo Zanardo, La 
“Critica della ragion cinica” di Peter Sloterdijk, “‘Clinamen” 2.2 (gennaio-aprile 
1989), 3-39. 

Gracian Baltasar, Oracolo manuale e arte di prudenza, trad. it., Milano, Rizzoli, 1967. 

Habermas Jiirgen, Moderno contro post-moderno, trad. it. di E. Rispoli, “Lettera 
internazionale” 3.8 (1986), 45-49. 

Jameson Fredric, Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, ““New Left 
Review” 146 (1984), 53-92. (Trad. it. di S. Velotti, Jl postmoderno o la logica 
culturale del tardo capitalismo, Milano, Garzanti, 1989.) 

Lyotard Jean-Francois, La condizione postmoderna, trad. it., Milano, Feltrinelli, 
1981. 

Perniola Mario, Dopo Heidegger, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1982. 

, Presa diretta, 
, Il ritorno dell’ estetica, “Estetica News” 1.1 (gennaio-aprile 1988), 

, Verso un'estetica generale, La societa dei simulacri, Bologna, Cappelli, 
1980, pppp. 

Sloterdijk Peter, Kritik der zynischen Vernunft, Frankfurt am Main, Suhrkamp, 1983. 
(Trad. fr., Paris, Bourgeois, 1987; trad. ing]., Minnenapolis, U of Minnesota P, 
1987.) 





Alessandro Carrera 


Alternative alla storia. 
Un problema per il pensiero italiano contemporaneo 


1. L'istante inenarrabile 


E concepibile pensare la storia nel suo non essere scritta e non poter essere 
scritta? E possibile considerare la storia nella dimensione dell’evento e 
dell’istante? Sono quasi domande impossibili; singolarita dell’evento e unicita 
verticale dell’istante si trovano a disagio nella successione del tempo storico. 
Non solo: non appena si affacciano alla superficie della storia, evento e istante 
trasformano la sequenza del passato in una finzione narrativa che non 
riconosciamo, che non ci appartiene pit, che ci appare un errore. E cid che Aldo 
Gargani sostiene nel suo scritto L’aitra storia, insieme saggio e confessione, al 
limite (e sul limite) della forma-saggio (L’ altra storia 1989, 70). 

L’istante, cosi lo intende Gargani, é inenarrabile. L’istante @ certo. E 
nell’istante che si pud essere assassinati, é nell’istante che sono morti i 
prigionieri dei campi di sterminio. Un tale istante non é mai entrato a far parte di 
nessuna storia scritta. La sua certezza é retroattiva. Essa cambia il passato, é tale 
certezza ad essere irreversibile, non il passato. Di pit: un tale istante determina 
una irriducibile dicotomia tra memoria e verita. Sotto la guida dalla memoria, 
odio e amore sono narrazioni che collocano e giustificano il passato, che creano 
una verita di comodo. Ma quando ci rendiamo conto che davanti, per cosi dire, 
all’istanza dell’ istante, tali narrazioni non hanno valore, ci troviamo spogliati di 
storie, nudi, improvvisamente trasformati in mostri agli occhi degli altri. 
Ognuno di noi é potenzialmente l’istante dell’altro e il mostro dell’altro e per 
altro, dall’altro sempre giudicabile e sempre condannabile. Il soggetto si 
riconosce mostro per gli altri e vede gli altri come mostri quando cade l’illusione 
narrativa in cui viveva protetto dalla narrazione di sé raccontata a se stesso. Per 
ritrovare la via del ritorno alla sua essenza il soggetto deve quindi passare 
attraverso la memoria di cid che per lo pit non viene ricordato: l’origine e 
l’infanzia, la memoria non storica, “perché qualsiasi uomo é soltanto un 
bambino predestinato dalla memoria” (L’altra storia 1989, 75). Non si dovrebbe 
scrivere questa memoria. E perché lo si vuole fare, perché si vuole scegliere il 
proprio passato, che ci si ritrova mostri. 

Per uscire dal dilemma, Gargani propone di ricostruire gli altri non nella 
relazione che hanno avuto con noi, ma in quella che hanno avuto con se stessi. 
In questo senso, ad esempio, il figlio che racconta la vita del padre deve 
diventare, deve far accadere, il racconto del padre. 














Alternative alla storia 107 


Il figlio diventa il figlio dal momento in cui si esclude come personaggio storico 
dalla vicenda del padre e rivive la relazione che il padre ha avuto con se stesso. 
(L’altra storia 1989, 77) 


Questa narrazione é “narrazione dell’origine dell’esistenza del padre”. II figlio 
diventa figlio e si costituisce come figlio in quanto conseguenza presagita nel 
proprio racconto del padre. Padre e figlio, come tali, nascono assieme. II racconto 
del padre rivissuto dal figlio é la resurrezione del padre e la morte del figlio in 
quanto figlio. Non é solo un passaggio di consegne. Gargani sembra invocare 
una vera e propria transustanziazione. Anche se é il figlio a raccontare, il 
racconto é del padre nei due sensi del genitivo, perché racconta il padre e perché 
appartiene al padre. Certo, é il figlio che racconta, perché nessuno puod raccontare 
se stesso se non vuole prima o poi trasformarsi in mostro per sé e per gli altri. Il 
padre racconta se stesso attraverso il figlio, e il figlio esterna la sua pietas 
raccontando il padre come padre e annullandosi in questo racconto. Le figure che 
animano il racconto non “‘c’erano” prima che il racconto cominciasse. II racconto 
le costituisce, le definisce e le salva. 

Fin qui Gargani. Ma é questa un’altra storia? Dobbiamo ancora chiamarla 
storia? O non é piuttosto cid che @ appunto irriducibile a qualunque storia? II 
problema é@ come pensare una simile irriducibilita, con quali categorie che non 
siano immediatamente assunte nella “storia scritta”, nella successione dei “fatti” 
da cui l’istante @ per essenza escluso. Tutto il testo di Gargani (tanto 
coinvolgente quanto faticoso) cozza contro i limiti di un vocabolario 
insufficiente e soffre di quella stessa dittatura del Logos pubblico, narrativo e 
storico di cui vorrebbe mostrare le aporie. La contraddizione dolorosa che 
sottende lo scritto di Gargani, anche se l’autore non la menziona, é tra Logos e 
Phronesis, tra storia pubblica e “saggezza” privata, categorie incompatibili e 
nemiche. Gargani sta cercando una impensabile storia del privato, una narrazione 
sottratta alla indifferenza e anonimita del linguaggio pubblico, in cui la 
singolarita irriducibile alle mediazioni storiche abbia voce e, in tutti i sensi, 
faccia testo. 


1y rapporto tra padre e figlio invocato da Gargani richiama un passo della Ecloga IX. Scolastica 
di Andrea Zanzotto. Il figlio, che dispera di poter ancora insegnare alle giovani generazioni con 
la stessa sicurezza con cui il padre, anch’egli insegnante, mostrava ai suoi allievi operai 
l’equivalenza della scrittura sulla carta e dell’ intaglio nel legno, si rassicura nella certezza che il 
padre lo assiste in quest’opera per via di una trasmissione che é insieme culturale e naturale: 
“Senti che da sotto / di tutto se stesso ti regge; sentine tutto il respiro: / non é, nemmeno nella 
morte, ancora non é faticoso” (Poesie 138). Ma i “padri” il cui respiro é avvertibile sotto il testo 
di Gargani sono Kafka, Benjamin, Wittgenstein e Heidegger. Dai Diari di Kafka viene il timore 
della sempre possibile condanna da parte dell’altro che pud venire “in un momento qualunque, da 
labbra qualunque”. Da Benjamin e dalle Tesi sulla filosofia della storia proviene il tema 
dell’istante, del kairds che azzera la storia e la fa ripartire. In particolare, @ la Sesta Tesi che 
auspica storici futuri in grado di salvare il passato dalla violenza del presente. Da Wittgenstein 


108 Alessandro Carrera 


E Gargani non é l’unico, tra i pensatori italiani di questi ultimi anni, ad aver 
posto in dubbio 1|’attuale efficacia della scansione storica del tempo. Per 
approfondire le possibilité suggerite da Gargani possiamo infatti rivolgerci a 
Carlo Sini e alle sue analisi sulla differenza tra Logos pubblico e dimensione 
privata (immagini di verita; Il silenzio e la parola;I segni dell’ anima). 
Affrontando il tema contemporaneo della “crisi di fondativita” della storia, Sini 
ha osservato che la stessa dissoluzione dello spazio operata dalla civilta 
tecnologica ha reso impossibile la fede in un unico tempo, in un’unica storia 
valida per tutti: 


Alla dispersione dello spazio fa eco la dispersione del tempo, il quale si frammenta in 
durate discontinue finite (“private”), in verita non confrontabili e non assimilabili tra 
loro. Cid significa che noi siamo di fronte alla sempre pit radicale intraducibilita 
dell’esperienza (delle varie esperienze) nelle categorie teoretico-democratiche della 
verita “pubblica”. 

(Il silenzio e la parola 111-12) 


Ogni narrazione @ esperienza della verita. Parziale, certo, ma anche tutta 
l’esperienza della verita, perché un’altra esperienza (un’altra storia) non sarebbe 
che un’altra narrazione. La stessa necessita esistenziale di una narrazione privata, 
di un’“altra storia” che sia storia dell’istante o storia al di fuori dello sguardo 
panoramico dell’io pubblico (come sembra essere il desiderio di Gargani) é frutto 
della divisione accettata illo tempore e mai pit messa in discussione tra Logos 
pubblico e idiosincrasia privata, il primo depositario della verita in quanto 
“comune a tutti” (come Eraclito lo vuole), la seconda necessariamente errata 


viene il “mostrarsi” del mondo nella sua mistica nudita, il “mostrato” che @ forse all’origine di 
cid che Gargani chiama mostro. (A meno che Gargani non abbia in mente il monstrum latino 
come cid che é da mostrare e da guardare per la sua unicita). Da Heidegger, infine, deriva il tema 
dell’Andenken, del pensiero come memoria dell’essere, memoria spogliata perd da ogni 
funzione culturale e pubblica e ricondotta a una personale Frémmigkeit des Denkens, a una 
“pieta del pensiero” che é racconto della nostalgia dell’essere. Ma l’implicita critica al rapporto 
tra memoria e testimonianza svolta da Gargani non é estranea alle ultime riflessioni di Primo 
Levi, che in J sommersi e i salvati giunge alla disperata conclusione che il vero testimone 
dell’ingiustizia non é@ il sopravvissuto. L’unica testimonianza non fallace é il silenzio della 
vittima, e l’unico omaggio che le sia degno é l’approfondimento di tale silenzio. Sfiducia nella 
parola e fiducia nel silenzio sono, @ vero, costanti culturali ebraiche, ma di enorme rilievo e 
gravita per la contraddizione che implicano: poiché il passato non c’é se non nella 
testimonianza — che perd @ presente — se manca la pur fallace parola del testimone manca tutto, 
e il passato é@ definitivamente perduto. Il sopravvissuto che sceglie il silenzio per rendere 
giustizia al passato, con il suo stesso silenzio toglie di mezzo la sopravvivenza del passato 
stesso. Per il problema dell’“esistenza del passato” rimando al mio What Happened to Being?, 

per una pil’ ampia discussione sull’ecloga di Zanzotto si veda il mio Le ceneri della storia. 

Gargani ha poi ampliato lo scritto qui analizzato in un intero volume, intitolato anch’esso 
L’altra storia (1990), ma il presente saggio @ stato completato prima che tale volume fosse 
disponibile. 














Alternative alla storia 109 


perché solo “particolare”. Perché sia possibile immaginare una storia libera dal 
Logos panoramico, una storia capace di fondare contemporaneamente, nell’ atto 
del suo svolgersi, e come Gargani vorrebbe, il padre e il figlio, bisogna forse 
arrivare a considerare, con Sini, il concetto di tempo storico come “grandioso 
immaginario collettivo” (/1 silenzio e la parola 100). L’idea di “storia universale” 
(risalente a Schiller) si rivelerebbe cosi come uno straordinario “sogno ad occhi 
aperti”, una fantasia occidentale sul punto di divenire planetaria perché ormai 
condivisa da tutte le culture opportunamente “occidentalizzate” e “civilizzate”, il 
che significa, appunto, “storicizzate”. L’istituzione eraclitea del Logos come 
dimensione pubblica ha creato per esclusione dialettica il suo opposto, cioé la 
dimensione “privata” intesa come luogo della pura e irrilevante singolarita 
(Immagini di verita 111-15). E da quando, con Tucidide e la guerra del 
Peloponneso, il racconto storico @ divenuto parte integrante del racconto del 
Logos, il privato si é costituito appunto come cid che restava inenarrabile 
rispetto alla storia. La sola espressione “storia del privato” diviene cosi 
impensabile, una pura contraddizione in termini. Con quali altre categorie infatti, 
oltre a quelle del Logos pubblico, sarebbe possibile comunicare la propria 
privatezza? Il Logos @ linguaggio, e il linguaggio non appartiene al singolo 
parlante.” 

Sini conclude che la peculiare esperienza della storia vissuta dal nostro 
tempo é lo sfondamento della storia. Tale sfondamento, tale perdita di terreno, 
deriva dalla coscienza sempre pili acquisita che anche la storia ha un’origine 
“storica”, che anch’essa é un particolare mythos, forse un caso limite del mito, 
della narrazione e della scrittura (II silenzio e la parola; I segni dell’ anima 110). E 
man mano che la coscienza della relativita della storia va prendendo piede, sempre 
meno i popoli e gli individui se ne sentono fondati, e ne fuggirebbero volentieri, 
se fosse possibile, verso una memoria loro propria e tuttavia maternamente 
impersonale, capace di farli nascere o rinascere in un unico, irripetibile racconto.? 


2 Carlo Sini ha affrontato il problema della differenza tra pubblico e privato, connettendola alle 
istituzioni eracliteo-platoniche del Logos e dell’anima. Ma l’impostazione del problema inizia 
dalle sue riflessioni su C. S. Peirce. E Peirce, infatti, ad aver ribadito che la verita @ un processo 
semiotico, e quindi pubblico, costituito dalla pubblica circolazione dei segni, mentre il privato 
non sarebbe che idiosincrasia ed errore (Semiotica e filosofia). Incidentalmente, ricordiamo che 
la stessa svalutazione del privato é alla base anche del Contratto sociale di Rousseau e del suo 
concetto di “volonta generale”. Pagine importanti sul rapporto tra storia, linguaggio ed 
esperienza, soprattutto in riferimento a Benjamin, si trovano in Agamben (Infanzia e storia). 
Benché non citate in questo saggio, sono state tenute presenti. 

3 Si leggano ad esempio le pagine di Storia con bambina di Peter Handke, in cui la figlia del 
narratore viene minacciata, in quanto tedesca, da un fanatico che vuole vendicare su di lei lo 
sterminio degli ebrei. Dopo uno scontro e un colloquio chiarificatore con l’autore della 
minaccia, il padre della bambina si avvia verso casa e cosi riflette: “Ora, finalmente, si fa sentire 
appieno lo sdegno, o meglio il rancore. E qui maledice quelle autentiche nullita che hanno 
bisogno della storia per dare un senso alla loro vita; qui maledice la Storia e la rinnega per 
quanto attiene alla sua persona; qui, per la prima volta, si vede solo con la bambina nella notte 


110 Alessandro Carrera 


A queste osservazioni potremmo aggiungere che ci sembra di vedere una linea 
diretta tra il desiderio diffuso di un’“‘altra storia” e lo scatenarsi di conflitti etnici 
anche all’interno dei sistemi che pit si vantano della loro democrazia. Sempre 
pit frequentemente, solo l’appartenenza a una “tribw”, a una razza o regione di 
origine sembra promettere quell’ intreccio di pubblico e privato, quel ritorno al 
génos, al gender proprio che |’egualitarismo democratico (l’uguale di Marat) ha 
dovuto necessariamente cancellare.* La storia é storia della liberta, come voleva 
Croce, nel senso che il nostro concetto di storia é nato ed é stato reso possibile 
dall’affermarsi della democrazia in Atene. Anche uno storico che si accinga a 
stendere |’apologia di un tiranno deve fare i conti con Tucidide. Ma é solo la 
nostra presunzione occidentale e storiografica a farci credere che la democrazia sia 
il sistema di governo “pili adatto” e “migliore” per l’intero pianeta, 0, come é 
stato di recente affermato da Francis Fukuyama, “the final form of human 
government” (The End of History 4). Non vogliamo fare dell’antidemocrazia 
salottiera. La democrazia parlamentare é la pi tollerabile forma di esercizio del 
potere finora escogitata dall’Occidente, e non auspichiamo nessuna soluzione 
“forte” dei suoi problemi. Ma molti conflitti oggi in corso prenderebbero una 
piega diversa se si potesse accettare uno “scandaloso” pensiero: non é affatto 
detto che tutti i popoli e tutte le nazioni, “se solo potessero”, si darebbero un 
ordinamento di tipo democratico-occidentale (con l’ovvio corollario che bisogna 
aiutarli a diventare democratici, che lo vogliano o no). Nel momento in cui 
potessero, vorrebbe dire che se lo sarebbero gia dati, perché l’opzione democratica 
é gia inclusa nella possibilité di una scelta. Nessuna potenza straniera ordino agli 
ateniesi di instaurare la democrazia. 


2. Lo strappo nella rete 


Heidegger ci ha resi familiari con l’idea che dominio planetario della storia e 
dominio planetario della tecnica, in quanto manifestazioni dell’epoca della 
metafisica, siano la stessa cosa. Come la metafisica che, anche se superata, non 
scompare, ma anzi ritorna sotto forme diverse, cosi storia e tecnica non possono 
essere oltrepassate solo perché gli intellettuali portavoce di una comunita cosi 
hanno deciso (Oltrepassamento della metafisica, 46). In effetti, per evitare 
confusioni, il concetto di limite della storia ci sarebbe molto pit utile che quello 
di fine. I] limite della storia, quel territorio intermedio che forse coincide con cid 


del secolo e nella vuota aula sepolcrale del continente, e tuttavia ne trae l’energia per una nuova 
liberta futura” (62-63). 

La democrazia nasce nel momento in cui gli ateniesi, con la Costituzione di Clistene, vengono 
divisi non pid in génoi ma in démoi, e |’appartenza al territorio prevale sulla concezione 
aristocratica e gentilizia della linea del sangue. Si veda Sini (// silenzio e la parola 103), che 
commenta le conseguenze di tale decisione facendo largo uso delle tesi esposte in Montanari, // 
mito dell’ autoctonia. 














Alternative alla storia 111 


che Gargani chiama 1’altra storia, é concepibile in quanto limite impensato ma 
costitutivo della storia stessa. Il problema sta nel riconoscerlo e nel collocarlo. Il 
linguaggio del Logos pubblico non ha molte speranze di riuscire nell’impresa. 
D’altra parte, non esiste linguaggio privato (0 altra storia) che non si infranga 
contro il Pubblico nel momento in cui cerca di dire e di dirsi. Ma questo 
infrangersi é uno dei compiti della poesia, e 1 suoi pil memorabili naufragi sono 
proprio quelli in cui desiderio di voce privata e retorica del Logos pubblico si 
scontrano sulle rive del linguaggio. 

Un simile incidente, profetico rispetto al dibattito attuale, é testimoniato da 
La storia di Eugenio Montale, inclusa in Satura: 


La storia gratta il fondo 
come una rete a strascico 
con qualche strappo e pit) di un pesce sfugge. 
Qualche volta s’incontra l’ectoplasma 
d’uno scampato e non sembra particolarmente felice. 
Ignora di essere fuori, nessuno glie n’ha parlato. 
Gli altri, nel sacco, si credono 
pit liberi di lui. 
(Tutte le poesie 367) 


La storia che qui Montale ridimensiona non si snoda “come una catena di anelli 
ininterrotta”. In ogni caso, “molti anelli non tengono”. Uscirne @ possibile per 
caso, forse per miracolo. Ma non rende né pit liberi né pit felici. Liberta e 
felicita potrebbero nascere solo dalla consapevolezza che 1l’evento 
dell’oltrepassamento del limite @ accaduto e accade. Ma tale consapevolezza non 
sarebbe ancora storica? In ogni caso, al personaggio di Montale essa manca, 
come gli manca qualunque memoria dell’evento dello scarto, del caso che lo 
mette al limite della rete; vale a dire, tutto. Il superamento del limite @ 
necessariamente gratuito, un atto di misericordia o di condanna (non lo possiamo 
sapere) la cui luce ultravioletta non pud essere percepita dal mortale che non 
sapra mai nemmeno di essere stato graziato o condannato. 

Naturalmente, la gratuita di questo oltrepassamento lascia intatto il 
problema di fondo. E coessenziale della metafisica dell’era moderna (e della 
storia, che della metafisica é sorella) il fatto di dover “superare” 1 suoi limiti, di 
“oltrepassarsi” in orizzonti apparentemente sempre “pili ampi”. Metafisica e 
storia moderne condividono la nozione di progresso per cui il futuro confutera 
inappellabilmente il passato, ponendosi ad un livello di consapevolezza ad esso 
“superiore”. Nei manuali scolastici di stampo storicistico-idealista Hegel ha 
capito pid di Kant perché @ venuto “dopo” di lui.> Eppure constatiamo che il 


5 Molte angosce storiche e molti conflitti di periodizzazione verrebbero leniti se ci si ricordasse 
di sviluppare il concetto blochiano di “non-contemporaneita” in tutta la sua portata teorica. 
Anche se in maniera problematica e non esente da cadute, Emst Bloch ha perlomeno cercato di 


112 Alessandro Carrera 


tema dell’oltrepassamento della metafisica (0, che @ lo stesso, della fine della 
storia) diventa stranamente impellente proprio quando lo stesso pensiero 
metafisico si accorge che non ci sono pitt limiti da superare. Perché? 

Pretendere di essere finalmente consapevoli che storia e metafisica hanno 
raggiunto il loro fine é ancora una conclusione storicistica. Quale altra autorita 
se non quella della storia ci potrebbe informare che siamo giunti al termine del 
percorso? Lo scampato di Montale non sa di essere tale perché la storia non ha 
parole per chi ne sta, impensabilmente, fuori. La si chiami dialettica o 
ermeneutica, in entrambi i casi é all’opera un progetto cumulativo per il quale la 
fine della metafisica o della storia non appare che un altro capitolo nella storia 
della metafisica e della storia stessa, diligentemente vergato dall’ultimo dei suoi 
soggetti.® Certo, si pud “continuare a sognare sapendo di sognare”, come propone 
Vattimo citando l’aforisma 54 della Gaia scienza (Le avventure della differenza 
141-42), ma cid non sarebbe assolutamente un passo avanti rispetto a chi 
sognava senza tale consapevolezza. Se fosse un progresso, lo sarebbe solo nei 
termini della classica autocoscienza che “sa” qualcosa in pi che prima “non 
sapeva”. Tale autocoscienza, nel sacco, si crederebbe quindi piu libera, perché pit 
consapevole, di chi ne é caduto fuori.’ 

Parecchie pagine di Vattimo lottano proprio intorno a questo problema: la 
nozione di “superamento” come possibilita di uscita dalla storia e dalla metafisica 
é gia stata messa in crisi da Nietzsche, che ne ha svelato la parentela con quella 
stessa idea di progresso che la filosofia del superamento intenderebbe criticare. II 
divenire come eterno ritorno dell’ uguale é gia la confutazione pit radicale di ogni 
superamento. Coincidendo con il divenire, l’eterno ritorno non ne elimina affatto 
la storicita. L’essere si da nella storia dell’essere, non in un altrove intemporale 
sospeso al di sopra del divenire. E, questo, Vattimo lo riconosce: 


pensare la storia non come un unico flusso da cui non si pud fuggire, ma come un insieme di 
correnti, ognuna delle quali crea e “temporalizza” la sua peculiare temporalita storica (Bloch; 
Bodei). Ad esempio, secondo Bloch la storia delle arti 2 eccentrica rispetto alla sua cronologia. 
Un autore non viene “dopo” un altro solo perché é nato dopo; pud venire “prima” o “dopo” a 
seconda di quanto, nella sua opera, mostra |’avvicinarsi dell’essere umano al suo Sé. (Carrera, La 
storia della musica; Ernst Bloch). 

6 Derrida, dal canto suo, ha gettato abbondante acqua sul fuoco della “fine della filosofia”, 
ricordando che anche l’apocalisse filosofica pud ridursi a un argomento come un altro, che 
prendera il suo posto su scaffali futuri (Of an Apocalyptic Tone).. Borges, avendo affermato che i 
sistemi filosofici nascono come plausibili descrizioni del mondo e finiscono come capitoli nei 
manuali, forse acconsentirebbe. E la concezione museale della storia, come l’aveva gia definita 
Nietzsche nella seconda Considerazione inattuale, e non dice nulla sul fatto che cid che viene 
schedato e rubricato sia ancora vivo. 

7 Nell’aforisma citato, Nietzsche precisa di avere scoperto che il passato dell’umanita, tutto il 
passato, vive in lui; che questo @ un sogno, e che deve continuare a sognarlo se non vuole perire, 
cosi come il sonnambulo deve continuare a sognare se non vuole cadere a terra. Il sogno di 
Nietzsche sara l’incubo di Stephen Dedalus nello Ulysses finché non ritornera assolutamente 
sogno nel Finnegans Wake, ma questa volta nella simultaneita di tutti i tempi. 











Alternative alla storia 113 


La storia della metafisica @ la storia dell’oblio dell’essere nella sua differenza 
dall’ente, dunque dell’essere come Ereignis; ma appare tale solo se guardata dalla 
dislocazione in cui ci colloca il Ge-stell. 

(Le avventure della differenza 186) 


Dove il Ge-stell @ naturalmente 1’im-posizione della tecnica sul mondo. E 
ancora: 


Il mondo del Ge-stell non @ soltanto il mondo della tecnica tutta dispiegata, della 
provocazione-produzione-assicurazione; ma @ anche, inscindibilmente, il mondo 
della Historie, della storiografia come industriosa ricostruzione del passato, in cui 
l’industriosita storiografica finisce, con il suo eccesso, per liquidare ogni rapporto 
sacrale e gerarchico con questo passato stesso. 

(Le avventure della differenza 194) 


L’uomo della Historie, turista nel giardino della storia, come gia lo descriveva 
Nietzsche nell’aforisma 223 della prima parte di Umano, troppo umano, é in 
realta l’assassino della storia, esattamente come i “piccoli uomini” 
apparentemente cosi rispettosi di Dio sono gli assassini di Dio. L’aforisma 125 
della Gaia scienza, in cui “l’uomo folle” annuncia che Dio é morto, potrebbe 
quasi essere reintitolato La storia é morta. Ma torniamo a Vattimo: 


La a-storicita costitutiva del Ge-stell, intesa non solo come perdita delle radici ma 
anche nella sua portata ultrametafisica, come aspetto del preludio dell’Ereignis, 
impronta la rimemorazione a cui il Ge-stell ci avvia di una storicita o temporalita che 
si pud definire “debole” o “depotenziata”. 

(Le avventure della differenza 198) 


E quindi dalla riflessione sull’esaurirsi del modello moderno di storicita che nasce 
la teorizzazione vattimiana del “pensiero debole” come ultima spiaggia della 
metafisica, preludio a un Ereignis, a un “evento” desacralizzato e tuttavia 
annunciato in termini prudentemente messianici. Per strutturare tale pensiero 
rimemorante in senso debole, opposto ad ogni modello “forte”, Vattimo deve 
pero sbarazzarsi della categoria stessa di “superamento”, ancora troppo “‘forte” e 
“moderna”. Nelle Avventure della differenza, infatti, Vattimo fa notare come 
Heidegger, nel suo Oltrepassamento della metafisica, abbia accostato alla 
categoria di Uberwindung (superamento) quella di Verwindung, termine che pud 
essere tradotto come “remissione”, come un “rimettersi” dalla, della e alla 
metafisica (Le avventure della differenza 174). In scritti successivi, come il 
decimo capitolo della Fine della modernita, il volume collettivo II pensiero 
debole, il saggio Verwindung: Nihilism and the Postmodern in Philosophy e La 
Societa trasparente, Vattimo preferisce tradurre Verwindung con “distorsione”, 
sostituendo, al superamento della metafisica e della storia, una loro progressiva 


114 Alessandro Carrera 


secolarizzazione (altra possibile traduzione di Verwindung), declinazione, 
riproposizione smagata, pietosa ed ironica insieme, di cid che storia e metafisica 
sono state. E ancora, in un certo senso, il nietzschiano continuare a sognare 
sapendo che si sogna, dove pero la necessita vitale del sogno di Nietzsche viene 
rimpiazzata da una convenzione culturale. 

Ma rimane un residuo insanabile. Quella sensazione di Gétterdadmmerung, 
quel risuonare apocalittico che fa di Uberwindung der Metaphysik una delle 
piéces piu tragiche e disperate della prosa del Novecento, una delle poche, 
davvero, ad essere all’altezza dell’inferno da cui proviene, svaniscono 
completamente in questa interpretazione tutto sommato rassicurante. Una 
Verwindung cosi intesa perde tutta l’urgenza di cui il testo heideggeriano la 
carica. Dov’é l’esaurimento, dov’é la fine? Qual é stata l’esperienza di Heidegger, 
qual é la nostra? Non riusciamo piu a vedere la differenza. Leggendo Heidegger 
dovremmo sempre ricordare da dove viene la sua voce. Ii suo stile, la sua 
straordinaria retorica, possono rendere ciechi e sordi alla sua provenienza 
temporale, irrimediabilmente storica. E gia accaduto che si leggessero Marx, 
Lenin e Mao in modo oracolare e divinatorio, per cosi dire senza mai guardarsi 
intorno, senza andare a prendere una boccata d’aria, come se parlassero sempre e 
solo per noi, qui ed ora, nell’esatto momento in cui avevamo aperto i loro testi. 
Si pud fare lo stesso con Heidegger, anzi é stato gia fatto. Heidegger é un 
pensatore, anzi é il pensatore, del Novecento come tragedia, e del nazismo come 
espressione di questa tragedia. Uberwindung der Metaphysik non @ un manuale 
per filosofie future. E un testo che, per rispetto ermeneutico, non possiamo 
leggere senza sentire il fragore dei bombardieri sopra la testa. 

E storicismo il nostro? E rifiuto della testualita? La pratica della 
decostruzione ci ha abituato a ben altre alzate di spalle. Si tratta, in verita, di 
riflettere sullo strano paradosso per cui il tema della fine della storia si é 
affacciato alla cultura occidentale, dall’Europa agli Stati Uniti, proprio in 
momento in cui la sequenza di fatti significativi che tradizionalmente viene 
qualificata come storia ha accelerato i suoi ritmi e imposto come non mai la sua 
presenza. Gli anni in cui pit si parla di fine della storia sono quelli in cui quando 
si apre il giornale la mattina bisogna pizzicarsi per credere a quello che si legge. 
Il fatto é che é possibile speculare sulla fine della storia solo nel momento in cui 
non Si puo pit teorizzare la sua fine reale. 


3. Esodo e Apocalisse 


Spieghiamoci. Secondo Giacomo Marramao, le due concezioni storiografiche che 
si affrontano e si intrecciano lungo la storia dell’Occidente possono essere 
simbolizzate dalle figure del cerchio e della linea ([dola of the Postmodern 10). 
La concezione ciclica della storia, risalente a Platone, attraverso le Storie di 
Polibio giunge fino a Machiavelli e a Vico. Accanto a questa tradizione si 





Alternative alla storia 115 


afferma in tutta la sua potenza narrativa |’Exodus biblico, nel quale la struttura 
lineare oppressione-ribellione-liberazione assume la forma archetipica che servira 
da esempio a tutti i processi rivoluzionari. Ma la divisione fra cerchio e linea 
non é poi cosi netta: la sequenza che va dall’oppressione alla rivoluzione al 
contratto sociale al nuovo ordinamento sociale si insinua anche nello schema 
circolare, cosi come esiste una circolarita nell’avventura dell’Exodus: la promessa 
divina sta all’inizio come alla fine del viaggio nel deserto, in un movimento 
chiuso il cui perno non é né topologico né geografico, ma etico. In questo senso, 
ogni rivoluzione, ogni apokatdstasis, mantiene il suo originario significato 
astronomico di “nuovo ordine” del cosmo insieme a quello etimologico di 
restaurazione dello status quo ante \’oppressione (Idola of the Postmodern 9-14). 

Nel mondo attuale, linea (tendente al futuro) e cerchio (tendente alla ciclicita 
e alla ripetizione) si stanno intrecciando sempre di pit. Nel “mondo 
amministrato” in senso weberiano gli atti risolutivi vengono sempre pii 
sostituiti da effetti di cristallizzazione della temporalita lineare, e l’intreccio di 
finalita e controfinalita é ormai cosi forte da paralizzare qualsiasi soluzione 
“monoteista” del conflitto sociale (Marramao, Idola of the Postmodern 17). Ma 
l’infittirsi delle interrelazioni avviene a totale scapito della concretezza dei singoli 
soggetti sociali. Quando la progettazione del futuro si fa coazione, e non pill 
promessa d’esperienza, la dimensione del futuro perde il suo fascino e la sua 
Carica legittimante (Minima temporalia 109). La “cattiva infinita” lineare della 
societa civile si sta curvando in circolo perché nessun progetto politico appare 
abbastanza forte da imporle una direzione. Proprio l’hegeliana contrapposizione 
di societa civile e stato sembra cosi tenere la chiave della storia moderna. Hegel 
ha definitivamente secolarizzato sia la tradizione messianica dell’Exodus che la 
sua trasposizione neotestamentaria, incanalando la struttura caduta-rivelazione- 
apocalisse (schema che aveva gia trovato la formulazione pit estrema nelle eresie 
gnostiche) nella costruzione della sua dialettica.8 Con Hegel, la storia non 
finisce nell’ apokatdstasis, bensi con la realizzazione dello Spirito Assoluto. Ma 
cid non toglie apocalitticita alla storia perché, nella sua marcia verso 1’ Assoluto, 
la storia ha “senso”, cioé direzione, solo perché un giorno finird, perché 
anch’essa @ un progetto destinato al suo peculiare essere-per-la-morte. Le 
rivoluzioni, come Benjamin e Bloch ricordano, non vogliono un infinito 
temporale davanti a sé: vogliono fermare il tempo, far finire la storia e creare un 
tempo nuovo. E nella misura in cui non pongono realmente fine alla vecchia 
storia, tutte le rivoluzioni finiscono come farse dell’apocalisse. 

Ora, l’unica rivoluzione che non sia stata ancora sconfitta (se non lo sara dal 
pianeta stesso) é quella industriale. Il capitalismo come organizzazione pratica del 
mondo della tecnica é l’unico progetto che sia ininterrottamente in corso da tre 


8 Lo schema Eden-caduta-redenzione, che si secolarizza gradualmente in un arco che va dalla 
Bibbia a Vico, trasformandosi poi nella nozione di progresso come redenzione dalla barbarie, é 
analizzato ampiamente in Sini (Passare il segno), dove viene definito “strategia psico-storica”. 


116 Alessandro Carrera 


secoli a questa parte. Perché dunque, dai politologi statunitensi agli ermeneuti 
europei, si specula cosi volentieri sulla fine della storia? Il fatto é che, cosi come 
non si da progetto senza finalita, non si da storia senza risoluzione, senza 
apokatdstasis. La cattiva infinita del sistema dei bisogni e del progetto planetario 
della tecnica hanno risucchiato in sé ogni teleologia. Essi sono la teleologia. Ma 
teleologia senza fine, perché senza fine e quindi essenzialmente vuoto é l’ideale 
del progresso. Poiché apparentemente tale progetto non ha pit nemici in grado di 
contestarne l’ideologia, esso prosegue trionfale, spazzando dalla sua strada 
avversari occasionali che comunque cercano solo di affrettare i tempi della loro 
partecipazione al supposto banchetto universale. O, almeno, questo @ cid che 
l’Occidente pensa di loro. 

Ma, in senso essenziale e non semplicemente evenemenziale, se cid é vero, 
se le culture non occidentali e gli stati del “Sud del mondo” non hanno davvero 
nessun progetto alternativo al dominio della tecnica, questo significa allora che il 
progetto storico @ concluso, finito. La sua morte non verra per mano altrui, sta 
tutta nel suo dispiegamento. Non ci sara pit) Occidente, quando (e se) tutto il 
mondo sara Occidente. Non ci sara piil un capitalismo occidentale trionfante 
quando esso sara stato assimilato e fatto proprio da altre culture. La storia nata 
con l’epoca moderna é finita perché non avra fine, e perché si mischiera alle 
infinite tradizioni, pit silenziose e forse pit forti di essa, che la assorbiranno 
fingendo di sottomettervisi. Come il cacciatore Gracco di Kafka, che vagava 
“nelle pil basse regioni della morte” a causa di una deviazione (una distorsione?) 
della barca che avrebbe dovuto condurlo all’ oltretomba, la storia finira senza 
poter morire. Gia finita, continuera a vivere, a nutrire coscienza e memoria, libri, 
istituzioni e cattedre, mentre tutto il suo sapere si trasformera in tradizione, 
ripensamento, Andenken, Biblioteca di Babele. 


4. Al di qua della porta 


Anche se un superamento orizzontale (utopico, rivoluzionario) della storia 
sembra oggi impossibile, cid non dice nulla su una eventuale via d’uscita 
“verticale”. Mai realizzata nella storia, perché essa non potrebbe essere possibile 
secondo un altro tempo? 

Tutte le tradizioni religiose e sapienziali, ha osservato Marco Guzzi, 
concedono la possibilita al singolo di “rinnovare in sé l’universo”. (Tale chance, 
viene da notare, @ stata negata all’uomo moderno proprio dal liberalismo e dal 
marxismo, per i quali nulla salus extra historiam). Il cristianesimo, attraverso il 
mistero dell’ Incarnazione e la sua interpretazione paolina, riprende tali tradizioni, 
ma se ne distingue in quanto fa carico al singolo essere umano non solo della 
redenzione di sé, ma, nel nome di Cristo come Uomo universale, dell’intera 
creazione. Guzzi scrive: 











Alternative alla storia 117 


Per il cristianesimo la svolta conclusiva della storia, la vera rivoluzione, é gia 
avvenuta con la discesa di Gesi sulla terra e la remissione dei nostri peccati, la storia é 
cioé gia finita. In tal senso ogni uomo pud vivere gid qui, attraverso la conversione e 
la continua riattualizzazione della fede, nel regno di Dio che, come insegna Gesu, é 
presente in mezzo a noi. La catastrofe rigenerativa diviene cioé individuale prima che 
storica. 

(La svolta 187) 


La possibilita analizzata da Guzzi é inscindibile dalla scelta della fede, non é solo 
il risultato di una deduzione teorica o di una lettura ermeneutica. E un salto che 
si lascia alle spalle i ponti filosofici. Ma non ne parleremmo in questa sede se la 
sua tesi non chiedesse di essere considerata anche da un punto di vista teoretico. 

Certo, l’affermazione secondo la quale con il cristianesimo la storia é finita 
fa sorgere alcune questioni: non solo il cristianesimo condivide con la storia la 
“strategia psico-storica” Eden-caduta-redenzione, ma anzi tale strategia non 
sarebbe nemmeno divenuta dominante se il cristianesimo non l’avesse 
legittimata. E una simile legittimazione non @ stato il prodotto di una 
“decisione” della teologia cristiana. La rivelazione, infatti, svela il senso della 
creazione proprio dandole un senso, un telos, una storia, producendo cosi lo 
spazio teorico in cui la teologia si situa. Poiché l’evento del Cristo é l’evento 
storico per eccellenza, la tesi di Guzzi @ accettabile solo se la intendiamo nelle 
sue estreme conseguenze: con |’evento di Cristo diviene visibile il fine (e la fine) 
della storia, nella misura in cui, a partire da quell’evento, tutte le possibilita 
storiche sono gia dispiegate. 

Come é possibile, dunque, che sia lo stesso cristianesimo a permettere 
un’uscita dalla storia? L’argomentazione di Guzzi @ che la storia, come tendenza 
dominante del destino occidentale, come sguardo pubblico (nel senso investigato 
da Sini e di cui abbiamo parlato in riferimento a Gargani), non esaurisce affatto i 
livelli di ek-sistenza dell’ente-essere umano. Si da invece, e secondo Guzzi é lo 
stesso Heidegger a mostrarla, una “trascendenza costante dell’esserci rispetto alla 
storia manifestata” (La svolta 99). In base a questo sempre possibile 
autotrascendimento, l’essere umano non si identifica mai totalmente con la 
propria essenza, con la propria apertura epocale, e quindi con la propria 
“gettatezza” e progettualita. Si pud, secondo Guzzi, negarsi, cioé negare il 
proprio progetto espansivo, invertire la rotta della propria tensione volitiva, 
penetrare nell’ Aperto di ogni apertura differenziante “‘e cosi anticipare ‘per sé’ i 
tempi del compimento” (La svolta 98). La storia é “finita” non come successione 
di eventi ma, in senso epocale, perché é finita l’espansione “imperialista” 
dell’autocoscienza, @ finito l’io, cioé il processo hegeliano che impone alla 
coscienza l’evidenza assoluta dello Spirito disvelato. A parere di Guzzi, l’io, 
ormai “del tutto formato e autocosciente”, non pud pili espandersi in un progetto 
storico infinito. Una vera crescita di pensiero non sara percid che un Ritorno, nel 
senso di un andare oltre riassumendosi in Sé (La svolta 99). La fine della storia 


118 Alessandro Carrera 


non é un fatto storico. E invece il compimento della storia, oltre il quale essa 
puo continuare, ma le sue opzioni sono esaurite. 

Il progetto del Ritorno non é per Guzzi una decisione nel senso in cui questa 
categoria era stata indagata in Sein und Zeit. Non c’é atto di volonta che sani “il 
nostro differire da noi stessi” (La svolta 35). Il Ritorno appare pit simile a quella 
Gelassenheit ipotizzata da Heidegger nei suoi scritti pid tardi, un abbandonarsi 
alla corrente che congeda 1’io riportando al Sé. 


[I]l pensiero della Revoca dell’Invio vanifica il compito che si proponeva Sein und 
Zeit di fondare una storicizzazione autentica dell’esserci, fondandola sulla sua 
continuita esistenziale, garantita a sua volta dalla decisione del Se-stesso che, 
decidendosi, si rendeva adeguatamente disposto a intervenire in modo creativo nel 
mondanamente storico. . . . Ed infatti negli anni successivi a Sein und Zeit il compito 
che si profilé non fu pit quello di fondare una storia autentica; ma di distruggere 
storiograficamente, e cioé delineando una storia unitaria dell’essere, i fondamenti 
concettuali della storia stessa come ciclo epocale del differimento giunto alla propria 
fine... < 

(La svolta 97) 


Il tentativo di Guzzi sta nel proposito di ridare dignité di pensiero a cid che tutta 
l’attuale ermeneutica ritiene inattuabile per principio, cioé che sia possibile 
lasciarsi alle spalle la barriera di divieti che la filosofia della fine pone intorno a 
sé, impegnata com’é a ripetere che dalla fine non si esce. In senso pil 
strettamente ontologico, ci sembra che il problema sia quello di riconsiderare la 
categoria del possibile come possibile ancora e sempre, \asciata intatta, perché 
troppo rischiosa, da tutte le canzoni delia disperazione e dalle enciclopedie del 
postmoderno. Il tempo cairologico di Benjamin e il Novum di Bloch si 
riaffacciano alla mente, non come ipotesi messianiche e rivoluzionarie 
abbondantemente fallite, bensi come legittime ribellioni contro:la dittatura del 
tempo storico, come affermazioni di difficile trascendentalita dell’esserci rispetto 
alla propria gettatezza, e di lotta con quest’ ultima. 


Il parto é prematuro 
sempre. 
Il figlio non @ mai voluto 
come il risveglio 
viene. 
(Guzzi, Il giorno 67) 


Interpretiamo: la svolta non é prevedibile, non é collocabile in una successione 
lineare. Cosi, in una poesia dello stesso Guzzi, parla una figura femminile che 
poi candidamente ammette: “Non sono vergine, ma posso riprovare” (I] giorno 
68). E il sapere di non essere vergini (detto altrimenti: di essere in una situazione 
“gettata”) @ tutto cid che si pud “oggettivamente” sapere. II rivolgimento 











Alternative alla storia 119 


invocato da Guzzi é esistenziale prima che culturale. A noi qui importa indagarne 
la possibilité teorica. Certo, essa & sempre aperta. Ma la modalita di questa 
apertura é peculiare. Proprio il suo essere-sempre-aperta ricorda irresistibilmente 
la situazione della porta della Legge davanti al contadino nell’apologo di Kafka. 
Il contadino non la oltrepassa perché ritiene che gli sia vietato. Solo quando é 
troppo tardi apprende che la porta era destinata a lui. Ma, appunto, cid che gli era 
destinato era l’apertura della porta, e non |’oltrepassamento. II rivolgimento (il 
passaggio) pud avvenire ogni momento, ma non in un determinato momento 
incluso in una successione, perché la sua promessa e la sua realta stanno tutte 
nella sua sempre intatta possibilita. Proprio perché il passaggio é sempre 
possibile, da sempre e per sempre destinato alla sua possibilita, non é attuabile 
in una temporalita lineare. Se il contadino passasse, empiricamente, la porta, che 
ne sarebbe di quel “sempre” di cui la porta é fatta, della sua pura possibilita? La 
Legge al di 14 della porta non é attingibile oltrepassando la porta perché tale 
oltrepassamento apparterrebbe ancora ad una temporalita “storica”. Ma il tempo 
della porta, della Legge, se si vuole della Rivelazione, é un altro tempo, il tempo 
del sempre, non nel senso dell’ eterno, bensi di quell’istante inenarrabile che non 
fa parte di nessuna successione — meglio, che nessuna successione pud 
incorporare e narrare. La porta é oltrepassabile, viene da dire con Bloch, 
nell’“‘oscurita dell’istante vissuto”, nella differenza insormontabile tra il vissuto e 
la coscienza, 0, in termini heideggeriani, nella differenza tra la gettatezza e la sua 
interpretazione. Né ora né mai, dice il guardiano, perché nemmeno I’ora e il mai 
sono il sempre, quell’istante unico e possibile, non dicibile in un tempo fatto di 
ora, € ora, € ora. 

Che rapporto c’é tra il rivolgimento verticale dell’epocalita, che Guzzi 
rivendica invece come realmente effettuabile, e la pura, assoluta dynamis della 
situazione della porta? Non si tratta solo di un fatto di fede. Entrambe sono 
modalita di esperienza alternative al tempo storico. Sia che la via del Ritorno sia 
stata imboccata, sia che la vita venga spesa nell’attesa dell’ingresso nella Legge, 
le due eventualita ci insegnano, con buona pace delle ambasce della 
postmodernita, la crescente irrilevanza della nozione di oltrepassamento — non 
importa se inteso nel senso ancora lineare di superamento, o interpretato come 
distorsione. Il Ritorno o il Passaggio possono avvenire, ma non come fatti 
storici. Poiché la porta é gia aperta, e lo splendore della Legge ne promana, non 
c’é nessun bisogno di affannarsi a oltrepassarla, per averla gid passata. Infatti, se 
gia fossimo col Padre nella pienezza della festa, che ne sarebbe della speranza? 
Cid che dona la certezza toglie la speranza. Cosi Kafka nei Diari. Ma l’attimo in 
cui il ritorno inizia, o l’attimo in cui il contadino potrebbe varcare la porta, sono 
inenarrabili e certi. Appartengono a quella totalita dei tempi in cui il ritorno é 
gia da sempre iniziato, e la porta gia da sempre varcata. Come ha scritto 
Massimo Cacciari: 


Cid che davvero “‘anticipa” il tempo della redenzione non é che la forza con cui questa 


120 Alessandro Carrera 


creatura sa “credere” all’antinomia — non oscurarla, non rimuoverla, non 
consolarsene, volere che cosi sia. 
(Icone della legge 40).? 


Resta una questione, e non delle meno impegnative. II ritorno al Sé, o la visione 
dello splendore della Legge, proprio in quanto alternativi alla storia, sono in 
grado di incidere efficacemente sulla legittimita, o la crisi, dello sguardo storico? 
Sono solo percorsi alternativi o anche proposte per la risoluzione della corrente 
malattia delle anime? Guzzi ha cercato di abbozzare una risposta nella sua 
introduzione a sei colloqui con varie personalita della cultura e del pensiero: 


[I] Rivolgimenti in corso stanno travolgendo ogni forma di conoscenza, di autorita 
istituita, e di progettazione storico-politica che non si radichi nell’incarnazione 
diretta, nella sperimentazione esistenziale e nella testimonianza personale. . . . Non 
si capisce il Rivolgimento come se fosse un oggetto esterno da indagare; lo si patisce 
come una passione d’amore. . . . L’unica Sapienza della Svolta, immersa a capofitto 
nel suo moto di Rivolgimento, @ la Sapienza dell’Incarnazione. 

(Rivolgimenti 9-10) 


Che ci si accordi o meno ad una disponibilita religiosa, resta indiscutibile che la 
svolta é il momento in cui “ci si incarna”, in cui il soggetto conoscitivo si fa 
soggetto testimoniante, o in cui, per parafrasare Gregory Bateson, si smette di 
essere colti e si inizia a diventare saggi. Detto questo, non sappiamo ancora nulla 
sul rapporto pratico tra questa coscienza incarnata e 1 problemi posti dalla svolta 
della storia. Qual é@ il rapporto tra le istituzioni e le nuove forme di 
rappresentanza dei soggetti sociali? In che misura la rappresentativita democratica 
é adeguata e sufficiente a rispondere alla dispersione deila soggettivita e a quella 
sua reazione speculare — vero ritorno del rimosso della storia moderna — che é 
la risorgenza dei conflitti etnici? Quali altre forme di rappresentativita sono 
pensabili? Eppure, anche se questi sono i problemi pid urgenti da affrontare, le 
riflessioni sulle dimensioni altre rispetto alla temporalita storica non sono affatto 
inessenziali. Esse ci ricordano che l’eccessiva enfasi posta sul senso storico come 


9 Ci siamo qui basati, prendendoci varie liberta, sull’interpretazione della Parabola della Legge 
di Kafka in Cacciari (cone della legge 66-78). E di Cacciari, anche, l’insistenza sulla 
distinzione tra via (cristiana) e vita (ebraica) e sulla categoria del possibile, dimensione decisiva 
dell’esserci, del Dasein, come terreno di scontro tra Rosenzweig e Heidegger (36). E che la porta 
sia aperta, si dice a pagina 73, irrealizza “tutta la nostra logica dell’oltrepassamento”. I 
problema della temporalita non storica @ ripreso e ampliato in Cacciari, Dell’inizio. A 
Heidegger (Fenomenologia e teologia) e a Cacciari (Die Christenheit oder Europa) rimandiamo 
per una discussione sul rapporto “hegeliano” tra cristianesimo e storia. E ovvia la differenza di 
impostazione tra Cacciari e Guzzi: dove il primo si ferma sulla porta della rivelazione, il 
secondo vi entra deciso. Ma come Guzzi intende ancora legittimare filosoficamente (perlomeno 
in La svolta) la sua scelta post-filosofica, cosi Cacciari non pud trattenersi dal guardare al di 1a di 
quella soglia che vuole proibirsi. 





Alternative alla storia 121 


unica saggezza dell’umanita non é che una delle molte maschere del nichilismo. 
Gia Nietzsche lo aveva anticipato: 


Immaginate l’esempio estremo, un uomo che non possedesse punto la forza di 
dimenticare, che fosse condannato a vedere dappertutto un divenire; un uomo simile 
non crederebbe pit a sé, vedrebbe scorrere |’una dall’altra tutte le cose in punti mossi 
e si perderebbe in questo fiume del divenire: alla fine, da vero discepolo di Eraclito, 
quasi non oserebbe pit alzare il dito. . .. Un uomo che volesse sentire sempre e solo 
storicamente, sarebbe simile a colui che venisse costretto ad astenersi dal sonno.... 

(Sull’ utilita 264) 


E vero che quando scrisse queste parole Nietzsche aveva in mente la “distorsione” 
della storia in senso scientistico operata dalla storiografia ottocentesca. Ma, 
anche nella mutata situazione odierna, in cui le considerazioni di Nietzsche sono 
divenute infine “attuali”, lasciare una “porta aperta” su dimensioni non storiche é 
fondamentale anche e soprattutto per mantenere un atteggiamento di salubre 
equilibrio rispetto alla vita. Ancora Nietzsche: 


Chi non sa mettersi a sedere sulla soglia dell’attimo dimenticando tutte le cose 
passate, chi non é capace di star ritto su un punto senza vertigini e paura come una dea 
della vittoria, non sapra mai che cosa sia la felicita, e ancor peggio, non fara mai 
alcunché che renda felici gli altri. 

(Sull’ utilita 264) 


University of Houston 


Opere citate 


Agamben Giorgio, /nfanzia e storia, Torino, Einaudi, 1978. 

Benjamin Walter, Tesi di filosofia della storia, in Angelus Novus. Saggi e frammenti, 
trad. it. di Renato Solmi, Torino, Einaudi, 1962. (Uber den Begriff der 
Geschichte, in Gesammelte Schriften I, 2. Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp 1974.) 

Bloch Emst, Spirito dell’ utopia, nuova edizione rielaborata della seconda stesura del 
1923, a c. di Vera Bertolino e Francesco Coppellotti, Firenze, La Nuova Italia, 
1980. (Geist der Utopie. Gesamtausgabe, vol. I, Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp, 
1974.). 

Bodei Remo, Multiversum. Tempo e storia in Ernst Bloch, Napoli, Bibliopolis, 
1979. 

Bocchi Gianluca e Ceruti Mauro, La cultura degli anni ottanta: dalla fine della storia 
all’ecologia della storia, “Oikos” 1 (1990), 39-69. 

Cacciari Massimo, Die Christenheit oder Europa, “Nuova Corrente” 76-77 (1978), 
216-41. 

, Icone della Legge, Milano, Adelphi, 1985. 





122 Alessandro Carrera 


, Dell’ inizio, Milano, Adelphi, 1990. 

Carrera Alessandro, La storia della musica secondo Ernst Bloch, “I quaderni della 
Civica Scuola di Musica”, Comune di Milano, 7 (gennaio 1983), 36-44. 

, Ernst Bloch. La musica come tempo dell’istante, “Kemi-Hathor”, Milano, 
Edizioni Riza, 3.8 (febbraio 1984), 29-33. 

, What Happened to Being? On Hermeneutics and Unlimited Semiosis in Carlo 
Sini and Gianni Vattimo, “RLA Romance Languages Annual 1989”, vol. 1, ac. 
di Ben Lawton e Anthony J. Tamburri, West Lafayette, Indiana, Purdue Research 
Foundation, 1990, 94-97. 

, Le ceneri della storia. Pasolini, Morante, Zanzotto, “RLA Romance 
Languages Annual 1990”, vol. 2, a c. di Charles Ganelin e Anthony J. Tamburri, 
West Lafayette, Indiana, Purdue Research Foundation, 1991, 213-18. 

, Consequences of Unlimited Semiosis. Metaphysics of Sign and Semiotical 
Hermeneutics in Carlo Sini's Thought (di prossima uscita in “Continental 
Philosophy”, vol. 6). 

Derrida Jacques, Of an Apocalyptic Tone Recently Adopted in Philosophy, trad. ing]. 
di John P. Leavey, “Oxford Literary Review” 6.2 (1984), 3-37. 

Fukuyama Francis, The End of History?, “The National Interest” 16 (Summer 1989), 
3-18. 

Gargani Aldo G., L’altra storia, in Filosofia '88, a c. di Gianni Vattimo, Roma, 
Laterza, 1989, 67-79. 

, L’altra storia, Milano, I] Saggiatore, 1990. 

Guzzi Marco, La fine della storia e la via del ritorno, in L'uomo, un segno, Roma, vol. 
5, 1, 1982, 109-43. 

, La svolta. La fine della storia e la via del ritorno, Milano, Jaca Book, 1986. 

, Il giorno, Milano, Scheiwiller, 1988. 

, Rivolgimenti. Dialoghi di fine millennio. Genova, Marietti, 1990. 

Handke Peter, Storia con bambina, trad. it. di Rolando Zorzi, Milano, Garzanti, 1982. 
(Kinder geschichte, Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp, 1981.) 

Heidegger Martin, Fenomenologia e teologia, in Segnavia, trad. it. di Franco Volpi, 
Milano, Adelphi, 1987, 3-34. (Phdnomenologie und Theologie, in Wegmarken, 
Frankfurt am Main: Klostermann, 1976.) 

, Oltrepassamento della metafisica, in Saggi e discorsi, trad. it. di Gianni 
Vattimo, Milano, Mursia, 1976. (Uberwindung der Metaphysik, in Vortrdge und 
Aufsdtze, Pfullingen: Neske, 1954.) 

Kafka Franz, Tutti i racconti, a c. di Ervino Pocar, Milano, Mondadori, 1970, 1976". 


, Confessioni e diari, a c. di Ervino Pocar, Milano, Mondadori, 1972, 1981°. 

Levi Primo, J sommersi e i salvati, Torino, Einaudi, 1986. 

Marramao Giacomo, ‘Jdola‘ of the Postmodern. Untopical Considerations on the End 
(and the Principle) of History, trad. di Paul J. Thibault, “Differentia” 3-4 
(Spring/Autumn 1989), 7-24. (Idola del postmoderno. Atopiche considerazioni 
sulla fine [e il principio] della storia, in Filosofia '87, a c. di Gianni Vattimo, 
Roma, Laterza, 1988.) 

, Minima temporalia. Tempo spazio esperienza, Milano, Il Saggiatore, 1990. 

Montale Eugenio, Tutte le poesie, Milano, Mondadori, 1977. 

Montanari Enrico, /l mito dell'autoctonia. Linee di una dinamica mitico-politica 














Alternative alla storia 123 


ateniese, Roma, Agra, 1979. 

Nietzsche Friedrich, Sull’utilita e il danno della storia per la vita. Considerazioni 
inattuali, IT, trad. it. di Sossio Giametta, Opere di Friedrich Nietzsche, vol. TH, 
tomo I, Milano, Adelphi, 1972, 257-355. 

Sini Carlo, Semiotica e filosofia, Bologna, Il Mulino, 1978. 

, Passare il segno. Semiotica, cosmologia, tecnica, Milano, II Saggiatore, 

1981. 

, Immagini di verita. Dal segno al simbolo, Milano, Spirali, 1985. 

, Il silenzio e la parola. Luoghi e confini del sapere per un uomo planetario, 

Genova, Marietti, 1989. 

, I segni dell’anima. Saggio sull’ immagine, Roma, Laterza, 1989. 

Vattimo Gianni, Le avventure della differenza. Milano, Garzanti, 1980. 

, Dialettica, differenza, pensiero debole, in Il pensiero debole, ac. di Gianni 

Vattimo e Pier Aldo Rovatti, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1983. 

, La fine della modernita, Milano, Garzanti, 1985. 

, “‘Verwindung’, Nihilism and the Postmodern in Philosophy, “SubStance” 
53, vol. 16.2 (1987), 7-17. 

, La societa trasparente, Milano, Garzanti, 1989. 

Zanzotto Andrea, Poesie (1938-1972), a c. di Stefano Agosti, Milano, Mondadori, 
1973: 




















Renate Holub 


Weak Thought and Strong Ethics: 
The “Postmodern” and Feminist Theory in Italy 


I. Transnationalism and Italy 


Whether there exists a relation between the political-economic transformation of 
late twentieth-century capitalism and the myriad of cultural phenomena 
accompanying that transformation — including what has been called the 
“postmodern” in literature, the arts, and some of the human sciences — is no 
longer a question.! What is more difficult to assess is the nature of that relation. 
I have no intention here of presenting such an assessment; rather, what I would 
like to explore is the need for critically and rigorously exploring such relations. 
A reader may be quick to point out that ever since the 1979 publication of Jean- 
Francois Lyotard’s La Condition postmoderne, the nature of these relations — 
namely, the interdependencies between economics, society, and culture — have, 
as far as contemporary times are concerned, been settled. After all, Lyotard had 
engaged in a brilliant discussion of the heterogeneity of language-games 
underlying authorial decision making and legitimation in late capitalism, 
whether one is dealing with the sphere of social action or the production of 
knowledge, with the social sciences or the natural sciences, with ethics or 
epistemology. That heterogeneity imparts in Lyotard’s account a strong sense of 
the unrepresentability of all states of affairs (81). In the foundational metaphor of 
unrepresentability, the political and the communicative practices amalgamate 
with the scientific and the production of knowledge. The arbitrariness of 
language-games does not subvert but legitimates the totality of the administered 
society. Innumerable language games and combinations, obeying different rules, 
infinitesimally expand under the impact of ever increasing machine languages, 
the matrices of game theory, new systems of notation for non-denotative forms 
of logic, thus colonizing the “suburbs of our languages” in which we live.2 With 
the exception of a few vestiges, heterotopias, who opt for regional resistances to 


1 “As far as ‘postmodem’ is concermed, I would like to keep it always in quotation marks: 
‘postmodern,’ since I do not believe that such a term captures the very complex transformations 
going on. I can perceive of postmodemism in the arts and architecture quite clearly, yet in other 
areas I do not see it at all: was the bombing of Iraq, where perhaps as many as 200,000 Iraquis 
were killed, postmodern?” (from a letter, dated October 2, 1991, by Renate Holub to the editor). 

2 I have profited immensely from Robert C. Holub’s discussion of Lyotard’s concept of 
postmodemnity in relation to Habermas and other twentieth-century theorists of communicative 
practices (Habermas, especially 133-81). 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 125 


this process of totalization, the majority of the global communities are 
increasingly subjected to the domination communicatively inscribed in all social 
practices. As in Adorno’s political program, it is the aesthete, the avant-garde 
and the artistic experiment, the extraordinary and not the ordinary that are capable 
of eluding the processes of reification in the structures of what he calls 
postindustrial age and what others call late capitalist age. 

Lyotard’s narrative is highly interesting and highly influential, yet it is but 
one narrative among many. There are many other stories which have been told. I 
would like to briefly focus on David Harvey’s, who in his 1989 The Condition 
of Postmodernity, relies not so much on the conditions for and the consequences 
of the production of linguistic systems and signs, and on the life-world of the 
communication or information society, but more on the conditions for the 
production of commodities, which we continue to buy and consume, as societies 
enter the age of information technology. Harvey shares Lyotard’s observations 
on the increasing control in the production of information and knowledge, that 
is, a transnationalization of power. Yet Harvey does not lose sight of those 
processes of material production and their organization and of the ways in which 
late capitalism continues to secure, by utilizing the enabling powers of 
information technology, the principle on which capitalism relies: the principle 
of profit. What is fascinating in Harvey’s story is his delineation of late 
capitalism’s march from the organization of commodity production based on 
Fordism to commodity production based on the principle of flexible 
accumulation, where both capital and production are transnationalized. Capital 
itself, with its monetary sources, is concentrated in the hands of a transnational 
banking conglomerate, actually a conglomerate of Western and Japanese banks, 
which control commodity production and the technology and information 
necessary for profitable production of commodities. Commodity production itself 
is transnationalized in the sense that ever smaller parts of a product are produced 
in global shops and factories, a practice called out-sourcing, where the cheaper 
conditions of labor secure higher profits. The application of information 
technology enables the flexibility in out-sourcing: wherever and however a part 
can be produced more profitably, it will be produced. Flexible accumulation and 
out-sourcing have their social prize. It often leads to the de-industrialization of 
some regions and the industrializations of others, to de-skilling in labor 
practices, to the social destruction of communities, and to the ecological 
destruction of our surroundings. 

What Harvey points out is that this inexorable march towards 
transnationalization of capital has been accompanied by the creation of an 
international culture, a kind of a complex internationalism in the sphere of 
banking and other service institutions. Harvey also points out that the radical 
transformations taking place in the sphere of production have effected the social 
and cultural realms, which seem to be increasingly colonized by phenomena 
accompanying that transformation. In this scenario, the logic underlying the 


126 Renate Holub 


production of contemporary culture — largely characterized by responses to the 
hitherto unknown experiences of the compression of space and time and which is 
often described as postmodernism, mimics the conditions of flexible 
accumulation. The culture of what is commonly called postmodernism becomes 
the “mirror of mirrors” (336). Thus the emphasis on ephemerality, collage, 
fragmentation, and dispersal in contemporary philosophical and social thought, 
in research programs, in architectural design, in literature and aesthetics stand in 
no arbitrary relation to the processes and structures ordering contemporary global 
commodity production in the era of flexible accumulation. In other words, 
whereas the abandonment of teleological thinking, notions of authority, agency 
and a responsible subject, causality, goals, centers, and whatever else makes up 
the “postmodern” account of the preceding and perishing style of the “modern” 
was seen by Lyotard not as a natural by-product of late capitalist society but as a 
positive reaction to the ubiquitous domination ushered in by the postindustrial 
information society (in so far as the aesthete or a select group can activate, 
heterotopically, the subversive powers of the fragmentary, the ephemeral, the 
dispersed, the heterogeneous), for Harvey the embracing of the fragmentary, the 
dispersed, the heterogeneous is not a subversive political principle but 
potentially a conservative one which denies the complexity of the world.* My 
sense is that both narratives of the structure of our contemporary life world are 
extraordinarily useful for a critical dialogue on the cultural dimensions of 
contemporary society, which in the opinion of some is based on a mode of 
information, and in the opinion of others on the mode of production, to use a 
term coined by Mark Poster. That critical dialogue cannot, however minimally, 
with any rigor take place here. Nonetheless, it is by relying on the juxtaposition 
of Lyotard’s and Harvey’s respective positions on the complexity of our era, 
commonly called the “postmodern,” that I can methodologically stake out a few 
problems which I would like to explore against the backdrop of contemporary 
Italian philosophical culture. 

It takes no expert in political economy, international relations, or corporate 
law to state that Italian society and culture take part in the transformation of the 
global economy moving from Fordism to flexible accumulation, and from a 
national economy to the transnationalization of capital. No great expertise is 
needed, I am afraid, when it comes to reading comparative statistics which assess 
the itinerary of a nation’s international economic clout.* If, as Lyotard and 


3 “Postmodemism has come of age in the midst of this climate of voodoo economics, of 
political image construction and deployment, and of new social class formation. . . . A rhetoric 
that justifies homelessness, unemployment, increasing impoverishment, disempowerment, and 
the like by appeal to supposedly traditional values of self-reliance and entrepreneurialism will 
just as freely laud the shift from ethics to aesthetics as its dominant value system” (Harvey 336). 
4 Harvey (157) reproduces OECD Labour Force statistics which indicate how in Italy, as in most 
leading capitalist nations, the service sector, typically tied to transnational transactions — 
finance, insurance, real estate — had already increased by 1981 to 49.2% of the labour force, 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 127 


Harvey propose, many of the corporate, legal, and political institutions of 
western nations are engaged in and facilitate that apparently inexorable global 
march towards transnationalization of capital (Harvey) or in that equally 
inexorable global march towards a transnationally administered information 
society (Lyotard); and if, as Lyotard and Harvey further propose, the conditions 
of possibility of the predominant mode of organization and transformation of 
contemporary society — commodity production based on flexible accumulation 
in Harvey’s story, and information production based on heterogeneous language 
games contained in the self-regulated systems of their rules in Lyotard’s story 
— hegemonically engulf the very social structure of contemporary society 
including its production of culture and knowledge, what are then the ways in 
which Italian theory responds to the challenges posed by transnationalism? Or, 
to put it more clearly, although surely more reductively: In which ways does the 
most advanced consciousness, the avant-garde, of Italian theoretical culture 
respond to the social and cultural challenges of a phenomenon that transcends 
national boundaries? 

What one should bear in mind is that in the wake of the geopolitical 
hegemony of Fordism — since World War II — many a culture witnessed not 
an integration into the emancipated western communities freed of want but rather 
the destruction of local cultures. What one should further bear in mind is that in 
the wake of the recent adventures of global economics — since the early 
seventies — moving from the crises of Fordism to flexible accumulation, and, 
empowered by the newly found capacities of information technology in processes 
of production and distribution, many more local cultures witness not a validation 
of their specificity but a legitimation of their destruction. Surely, Italy, as an 
economic system, takes part in the march of capitals towards hegemonic 
transnationalization. And as an institutional system, it takes part in the 
increasing transnational bureaucratization of its public spheres. But what about 
the social and, in particular, the cultural in contemporary Italy? Does the cultural 
follow the logics of hegemonic transnationalism, does it precipitate it, resist it, 
or bypass it? If Niklas Luhman has a say, then Weber’s dictum of the 
“Entzauberung der Welt,” of the inexorable rationalization of the structures of 
our life world, have intruded since the beginning of modernity into the cultural 
worlds as well, thus colonizing and codifying the most private of our private 
spheres: the original scenes of creativity and love.’ At this point, I would prefer 
to think, against Luhman, that the most advanced Italian philosophical culture 
entertains the possibility, theorized by Lyotard, that some cultural forces from 


superseding agriculture (13.4 %) and industry (37.5 %). Compare with Germany or the United 
States: in Germany agriculture is 5.9% , industry is 44.1%, and serivice is 49.9%; in the U.S.A. 
agriculture is 3.5%, industry is 30.1%, and service is 66.4%. 

5 See his Liebe als Passion and the commentaries by Hartmann Tyrell and Karl-Heinrich Bette in 
Theorie als Passion ( 570-629). 


128 Renate Holub 


within the complexity of a differentiated system are capable of subverting the 
apparent self-regularity of complex systems. Whether the subversion of some of 
these Italian cultural forces are capable of going further and intervene in 
transcultural processes, divert their direction, affect a change in the philosophical 
languages being deployed, is a different question. There have been some 
developments in Italian philosophical culture, from within the institutions of 
“weak thought” and “feminist theory,” which seem indeed to have a certain 
potential to disrupt, from the margins of transcultural hegemony, the ease with 
which the transnationalization of the economies hegemonizes the 
transnationalization of cultures. Whether it will lead to much at all is an open 
question. Yet it is worth telling one version of its story. 


II. Transculturalism and Weak Thought 


If one were to make a rough draft of the trajectory of the Italian philosophical 
communities in the twentieth century, the graph would look something like 
this: from Croce’s idealism to Paci’s phenomenological existentialism, and from 
there to the adaptation of marxist philosophy, in particular of the neo-marxism 
of the Frankfurt school, finally to the crisis of marxism and dialectical thought 
in general in the late seventies, a crisis which marks the beginnings of the 
“pensiero debole” or “weak thought.” The historical logic of this Italian way of 
philosophizing is then surely quite different from the American, where analytical 
philosophy has managed — _ in spite of Richard Rorty and the many 
monumental critiques of philosophers of science, on the one hand, and the 
expeditiously organized translations from French deconstruction, new- 
historicism, and other “postmodern” philosophical systems on the other hand — 
to hold onto an unprecedented monopoly in the philosophical state of the arts.® 
While the predominant metaphors and rhetorical figures of modern Italian 
philosophy and the course they have chosen display few affinities with U.S. 
American hegemonic philosophy, they have more in common — so it appears 
— with the general trajectory of twentieth-century French and German 
philosophy. In France one can trace a movement from phenomenology and 
existentialism to marxism (Althusser), and from there to a crisis of marxism, 
which ushers in the “postmodern” systems as we know them of Lyotard, 
Deleuze, Baudrillard, Derrida, Foucault, Lacan and many others. In Germany, the 


© The Italian philosophical culture has produced analytic philosophers as well, yet it is 
interesting to note that some of the analytic philosophers, such as Aldo Gargani, no longer 
work in that mode. While Gargani in part introduced Wittgenstein to the Italian philosophical 
discourse, he has also left Wittgensteinian theoretical models behind when he experiments with 
new modes of a minimalist epistemology. See his Lo stupore e il caso, as well as his La frase 
infinita. 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 129 


graph moves from existentialism to the marxism of the Frankfurt School. 
However, the crisis of marxism, which also occurs there, does not lead, as in 
France, to a “postmodern” radical calling into question of western metaphysics 
and traditional ways of systematizing knowledge, but rather to two forms of non- 
“postmodern” systems: the projects of Habermas and Luhman respectively. As I 
intimated a few moments ago in using the term “postmodern systems,” I should 
also add that both the German and the French philosophy constitute complex 
responses to, or commentaries on, the order of late twentieth-century things. 
Thus I consider a system not only German philosophy, in so far as Habermas’s 
and Luhman’s research programs superbly lend themselves to such a description. 
I also consider a system what is put forth by French “postmodern” thought, all 
claims to unsystematicity to the contrary. A set of hegemonic metaphors and of 
persuasive strategies, both positively and negatively deployed, autarchically reign 
in both. “0, drafting the adventures of twentieth-century Italian philosophy 
suggests a set of conceptual and rhetorical figures which are contractable, to 
some extent, on a line which moves from idealism to phenomenology and 
hermeneutics, from there to neo-marxism, and ultimately to the crisis of reason 
and to the “pensiero debole,” which can be viewed as a reinvestment in or return 
to phenomenological hermeneutics. This is certainly the impression one gathers 
when studying one of the most eminent intellectual journals in Italy, Aut-Aut. 
Yet we could see these philosophical events from a different angle and order them 
along different lines. After all, what we select from a codification or a canon, or 
the way we construct new codifications, center around metaphors of our liking. 
Something gets always lost. We could look at modern Italian intellectual history 
as a continuous history of complex dialogues and perhaps even dialectical 
encounters; accordingly, there is not only Croce, Paci, marxism, its crisis, and 
“weak thought,” but Croce and Gramsci, with Spaventa and Labriola closely 
placed behind these two, and Paci, and his phenomenology, in relation to neo- 
marxism and neo-positivism, and neo-marxism in its relation to hermeneutics, 
semiotics, and communication theory. This historiographical sketch has the 
advantage of being able to incorporate many of the forceful as well as original 
voices of the Italian scene, which, albeit often working in fields which are not 
philosophical in the narrow sense, nonetheless bespeak a powerful philosophy. I 
am not only thinking of Remo Bodei and his interests in psychoanalysis, but 
also of Norberto Bobbio in political history, of Giacomo Marramao and Enrico 
Rusconi, theorists of the political, as well as of the critical psychiatrist Franco 
Basaglia and the neo-positivist Galvano Della Volpe. 

In the codification proposed here it is. more difficult to maintain the 
historical nécessity of a philosophical and metaphysical crisis in the late 
seventies, which is a crisis of hegelianism and marxism, or at least it is more 
difficult to accord that crisis an unprecedented or foundational status in the 
history of twentieth-century ideas. Similar to Harvey’s assessment of the 
condition of postmodernity, the crisis can be studied as one of many phenomena, 


130 Renate Holub 


which are perhaps not as readily available to purview than the philosophical 
crisis itself. Yet no matter how we prefer to codify it, one would find it difficult 
to separate the advent of “weak thought” from both sketches. In fact, “weak 
thought” is located somewhere between a radical Heideggerianizing 
postmodernism in the humanities, on the one hand, and a critical discourse in the 
social sciences, on the other hand. There are probably many more possible ways 
of orchestrating a meaningful purview of Italian contemporary philosophy.’ Yet, 
however we maneuver such orchestrations, contemporary Italian philosophy has 
closer affinities with Germany and France, that is, with continental philosophy, 
than with the United States and Britain. 

When we compare the Italian response to or comment on the late twentieth- 
century order of things with the responses put forth by French and German 
philosophical cultures, it is not difficult to notice that French “postmodernity” 
and German “modernity” (to operate with the “appropriate” terminology) have 
been treated to a much larger reception by the transnational theoretical 
communities than Italy’s weak thought in particular and Italian philosophical 
culture in general. With this I state nothing new. Giovanna Borradori, as many 
other historiographers of Italian theory, has addressed this issue recently in her 
introduction to Recoding Metaphysics: The New Italian Philosophy.’ She cites a 
variety of reasons which might be accountable for the lack of a wide-spread 
reception of Italian philosophical culture: the advent of Italian fascism, which did 
not lend itself to a diffusion of Italian culture; the peculiar status of Italian as a 
language, when compared to French, in the international community. And the 
“loss of historical perspectives and the consequent impossibility of 
reconstructing the internal horizons of referents in which the discourse of 
contemporary Italian philosophy takes place” (2). Her analysis requires our 
attention. What we could add, however, is that some Italian theorists function 
within internal as well as external horizons of referents. While philosophical 
language is tied to its metaphors and rhetoric of a national iradition, it is also 
tied, to various degrees, to the metaphors of transnational rhetorical formations. 
Gianni Vattimo is in this respect a fascinating case in point. He has managed to 
go national and transnational at once. We might even contend that he tried very 
hard to transnationalize the Italian philosophical business. Why then, we might 
ask, is his success on the transnational stage not comparable to that of the 
French poststructuralists, or to that of the German systematizers? 

After all, we might argue that his theory, his version of the “pensiero 
debole,” which he co-authored next to Pier Aldo Rovatti, Gianni Carchia, 


7 See, for instance, Carravetta, “Repositioning Interpretive Discourse.” 

8 For Borradori see her “Introduction: Recoding Metaphysics,” which is a wonderful invitation 
to survey contemporary Italian philosophy. For a survey that offers a broader spectrum, see the 
various issues of Differentia. As far as the marginalization of things Italian is concerned when it 
comes to a different discourse, such as Italian feminist philosophy, see my “For the Record.” 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 131 


Alessandro Dal Lago, Maurizio Ferraris, Leonardo Amoroso, and Giampiero 
Comolli, seems to meet many of the rhetorical and psychological aporias of 
“postmodern” philosophical culture. For one, he expediently abdicated marxism 
at the moment when it counted most, learned the language of transnational 
power, published his books in the United States, and adopted a version of the 
French “postmodern” speak by generously showering his narrative with 
Germanic syllables printed in cursive and many other visuals of Heideggerian 
heraldries all in the service of what befits an authentic “postmodern” mode. In 
addition, as most postmodernists or late modernists, Vattimo had not always 
paid tribute to the rhetoric of the “postmodern” speak. Indeed, he had spent a 
good deal of time with neo-marxist metaphors in such a way that even in his 
interpretation of Nietzsche he was unable to resist the temptation to displace 
Nietzsche by Marx and to decidedly transform Nietzsche’s superman into the 
figure of the Marxian proletariat inexorably enacting its internal will to 
liberatory power (/] soggetto e la maschera). Moreover, by the end of the 
seventies, when the transnational horizon adjusted its discursive referents to 
include ciphers of predictably dystopic millennial anxieties, Vattimo too shifted 
gears, just when his Nietzsche volume went into a successful second printing.? 
Vattimo’s subject, until now capable of managing some orders for him/herself, 
of being an actor on the historical, the political, the social and cultural stage, and 
also of having fun, as in his J] soggetto e la maschera, Nietzsche e il problema 
della liberazione (1974), underwent a radical metamorphosis. In his Al di la del 
soggetto, Nietzsche, Heidegger e l’ermeneutica (1981), Vattimo no longer 
chooses to speak of a subject or agency, as the title suggests, but of spheres that 
go beyond a subject, of conditions, structural and existential perhaps, within 
which a subject moves. We are reaching the edges of the end of modernity, La 
fine della modernita (1985).!° What is interesting is that although in J] pensiero 
debole (1983) the human being is no longer the subject of critical inquiry but 
rather it is, as in Heidegger, thought itself, in his work subsequent to this 
volume thought usually stands in relation to a subject. Next to changing the 
topic of his investigation, of moving from the social more towards the 
ontological, without, however, completely giving up the social, Vattimo has 
also adjusted his research program to “postmodern” organizational and narrative 
styles. Whereas in his earlier work he chose to write monographs, his later work 
consists, conforming to the taste of the time, of collection of essays. And 


IIna private conversation at Boston College in October 1990, Gianni Vattimo cited terrorism 
in Italy as the event which influenced his shift away from marxism. One wonders how some of 
the French intellectuals would ground their conversion to anti-marxism, given that there was no 
terrorism, and secondly why in Germany, which experienced a good dosage of terrorism, many 
intellectuals continue to work in the tradition of the Frankfurt School critical theory. 

10 For an excellent discussion of Vattimo’s La fine della modernita see Carravetta, “Vattimo and 
the End(s) of Modemity,” in Prefaces to the Diaphora 215-35. See also my review of Prefaces in 
this volume of Annali d’ italianistica. 


132 Renate Holub 


whereas the earlier is heavily endowed with explicatory, detailed, and erudite 
footnotes, the latter keeps footnotes to a minimum, as is required by the form of 
the essay in its traditional meaning of attempting to deal with a problem rather 
than solving it.!1 What Vattimo did not change is his basic strategic program 
and the causal logic within which he moves. No matter whether we open at 
random an earlier or a later text, Vattimo adheres to the traditional logic of cause 
and effect, of a before and after in time, and he intends to persuade his readers of 
the correct state of the arts. In other words, whereas he shares with most 
transnational “postmodern” theory the assumption that philosophy must still 
have a say, that it is still capable of persuasive powers, what he does not share 
with many “postmodern” theorists (Philippe Lacou-Labarthe, Jean Luc Nancy) is 
that the condition of postmodernity expresses itself also in the language of 
philosophy. In Vattimo, it is the philosopher who speaks the language of 
philosophy, someone who is still capable, however minimally, of choice, rather 
than the language of philosophy that speaks through the philosopher. Language 
itself does not express the “postmodern” condition, and the condition does not 
express itself in language. For Vattimo it is the philosopher who expresses in 
language that condition. 

It should be to his credit that Vattimo retains a minimum of intentionality 
and thus critical responsibility in his philosophical program, a minimalism 
which he shares with other “debolisti” and with the major proponents of the 
Italian hermeneutic tradition as well. Indeed, there are some critics, such as 
Borradori and Edmund Jacobitti, who have suggested that in Italy an adherence to 
the hermeneutic tradition, a genuine interest in the dialogic, is the symptom of a 
specifically Italian philosophical culture ultimately searching for practical 
models rather than predominantly metaphysical ones which keep the communal 
or the civic moment intact, a reverence to history, and to the principle of a 
community.!2 Yet Vattimo’s propensities for an ontology which, in its 
weakness, admits an epistemology and even an ethics of sorts is surely little 
reason for being disqualified from running with the French and German critical 
crowd. After all, we know what Habermas is all about: intentionality and critical 
responsibility. What is then precisely accountable for the lack of a wide-spread 
reception of Italian theory by the transnational critical community? What does 
not easily sell does no longer get produced. It would take research into the 
relation between the formation of a specific philosophical discourse and its value 
on the intellectual commodity market. And it would take comparative research of 
the “politics of cultural politics” that would take into account the economic 
status and foreign affairs policy of the various cultures involved. At the same 


11 See for instance his essay “Dialettica, differenza, pensiero debole, “ in Vattimo and Rovatti 
12-28. 

12 For Borradori see her Recoding Metaphysics (4-14). For Edmund Jacobitti I am referring to 
the many fascinating papers he has presented at various conferences on this topic. 





Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 133 


time, what remains puzzling is that while Italy has produced in the realm of 
philosophy as many volumes as the French and the Germans, to whom they 
stand qualitatively in no unequal relationship, Italian philosophy is not as 
frequently distributed. Is its commodity value simply not as high? It would also 
take research into the ways in which the Italian government chooses to package 
its international public relations interests. What we know from the French and 
particularly from the Germans is that many a political Mark finds its way to 
Centers for European Studies, ready to be handed out for multi-volume 
translation projects, transatlantic conferences, summer institutes and so forth, all 
presumably in the service of the production of neutral knowledge and value free 
cultural relations.!3 The production of theory seems to be a business, and so its 
distribution. The reception of a theory, or the lack thereof, falls to a large extent 
into the ‘omain not only of national, but also of transnational cultural politics. 
This is not the place to pursue this kind of thinking, for one could only 
scratch the surface of such complex processes and relations. Nor is here the place 
to deplore the fact that Italian theory, including the “‘pensiero debole” meets little 
resonance. Indeed, there is perhaps no reason to deplore the unequal status of 
Italian theory on the international market at all. The economic weakness of weak 
thought on the transnational market might well be one of its philosophical, 
theoretical, and perhaps even politically subversive strengths. For what is 
fascinating about contemporary thought in Italy in general and about the 
“pensiero debole” in particular is that it keeps doing its own thing, largely 
unencumbered by the modemist and postmodernist pressures exerted upon it from 
Germany and France. Whereas in France philosophical communities have 
throughout the twentieth century huddled around the three big H’s, to borrow a 
term from Descombes (1980), i.e., Hegel, Husserl, and Heidegger, occasionally 
dialoguing with Nietzsche, Marx, and Freud, and whereas the German 
philosophical communities have difficulties resisting the desire — perhaps 
originating in Hegel — to inexorably systematize systems of systematizations, 
Italian philosophers on the whole seem to pursue their own independent course. 
Italian “weak thought,” by being modern and “‘postmodern” at once, and by being 
connected to its own hermeneutic tradition while indicating propensities for 
transnational discourses, holds on to a decidedly independent and autonomous 
course. With this “terza via” in theory, Italian philosophical culture assumes the 
potential, so I would like to propose, to resist the reificatory operations of 
transcultural hegemonic domination. If we can, against the background of 


13 The German government has endowed Harvard/MIT, Georgetown and the University of 
California system with a sum of fifteen Million Marks each, all for the benefit of Centers called 
Westem European Studies. There is nothing comparable coming from the Italian government. It 
is also difficult to make out, in the Italian case, where the money comes from and how it is 
distributed. I know of at least seven different sources. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry 
for Tourism and Entertainment, Ministry of Cultural Heritage, Ministry of Education, Ministry 
of Science and Research, Regional Governments, Private Institutions. 


134 Renate Holub 


Harvey’s complex analysis of postmodernity, envision future decades where the 
cultural realms are increasingly subsumed under the rules of economic and 
financial transnationalism and under the regulations of its codifications — a 
process which is perhaps already taking place — then Italian critical culture 
might be in the position to critically comment on, to assess, and perhaps even 
subvert, from the margin of European cultural centers, the desirability of certain 
hegemonic transcultural processes. That the marginal positionality of Italian 
theory possibly harbors empowering tools of critique is in any event not a 
proposition that reaches us from the centers of Italian cultural production. 
Rather, it is both from the postmodernist and the modernist camp, from Lyotard 
and Foucault, and from Adorno and Marcuse that we have been treated to the 
powerful discourse in the era of reificatory colonization of consciousness and 
desires. It is only from the margin, where critical thinking takes place both 
within and outside the parameters of cultural hegemony, that positions of 
meaningful critique can arise. If “‘pensiero debole” should strike one, in spite of 
everything, ultimately as a weak candidate for the position of critical subverter in 
the production of transnational discourses, I would like to invite this skeptic to 
critically survey what the community of women philosophers of Verona has to 
offer. And it is to this group, known by the name of Diotima, that I will now 
briefly turn. 


III. The Perhaps All Too Strong Ethics of Feminist Philosophy 


I should begin by pointing out that the proclivities of “pensiero debole” for 
“less” rationality rather than “more,” or for “some” rationality rather than “none” 
at all has not been welcomed by two of its critics, a representative of French 
postmodernism on the one hand, and by Diotima on the other. So for instance, 
Lacou-Labarthe (1990), for whom the “complacent” disinterest of “pensiero 
debole” in renouncing all philosophizing is not sanctionable by, and by 
extension identifiable with, his interest in renouncing all philosophizing as he 
continues to write about how all philosophizing should be renounced (6). Yet it 
seems to me that Vattimo and Rovatti, whom this French intellectual 
admonishes for continuous philosophizing, albeit in a small key, reflect on what 
they are doing in more adequate ways than Lacoue-Labarthe, who claims that he 
is renouncing philosophy by speaking of the need to renounce philosophy. 
Adriana Cavarero (1987), one of the theorists of Diotima, critiques the “‘pensiero 
debole” from a different point of view when she writes in her “Per una teoria 
della differenza sessuale” as follows: “Occidental philosophy has recently flirted 
with this positive value, namely that this “less” of philosophy is able to play 
out its symbolic force at the moment in which the neutral universal, the subject 
indeed, has entered a crisis. For man who has placed himself and who has 
understood himself for thousands of years as the strong subject — this 














Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 135 


recuperating of a weakness generously left in the custody of the “more of the 
less” of woman is indeed the flirting of a subject who does not uproot the 
foundations of his own representation (and why should he?) but replaces quite 
freely the categories of his logic. . . . The path of ‘pensiero debole’ is not the 
path by which a woman can arrive to speak herself, to think herself, to represent 
herself: on the one hand because of strictly logical reasons, and on the other hand 
because it is rather pathetic to speak of a weak subject insofar as a woman does 
not even have a language which bespeaks her a subject” (48-49). What is 
interesting in Cavarero’s critique of the “pensiero debole” is bringing the 
“pensiero debole” into the vicinity of feminist thought, of having picked up, 
whether consciously or not, on the large body of feminist knowledge dealing 
with the problem of the subject and subjectivity, in particular as this problem 
has been worked out in the context of the writing of the French feminist 
philosopher Luce Irigaray.!4 Striving towards a new or a weak rationality, 
towards a subject that contents itself with less knowledge rather than more, 
towards an epistemology which constructs bodies of knowledge on the basis of 
details, the minimal, and the marginal rather than on the basis of macro- 
codifications systems and towards an ethics which cultivates the minimal rather 
than the maximal, which respects the communal in everyday life (Gargani 1985 
and 1990; Vattimo/Rovatti 1983; Ginzburg 1979) is then a welcome 
development for western philosophy at large. Yet it is a development from 
within western philosophy, unable to question (all lip service to thinking of 
knowledge and representation without foundation [Gargani, 1975, to the 
contrary] the foundations of its own representations. What Cavarero is alluding 
to is the research program of Diotima, which has patiently staked out the 
conditions not of possibility but of impossibility of woman to represent herself 
within the structures within which she finds herself. The symbolic, including the 
logic underlying the organization of everyday life in the world, is a symbolic 
logic that posits man as the norm, and all that which he is not, as the other 
defined in relation to that first principle: man. Throughout the eighties, Diotima 
has experimented with most advanced philosophical ways which could undo 
some of the structures imposed on woman’s being in the world. What she has 
come up with his striking and powerful, immensely controversial, and most 
radical at the same time. I do not think that Rosi Braidotti is all that off the 
mark when she states in her recent Patterns of Dissonance (1991) that this 
feminist philosophy in the making, conceptually allied, as it is, with Irigaray, 
could become one of the most exciting sites of theoretical production in the 
years to come (261). 

Speaking of a “conceptual alliance” between Diotima and Irigaray is to the 


14 For an earlier discussion of the complex and uneasy relation between contemporary Italian 
theory and feminism see Holub, “Towards a New Rationality” and “Subtextual Feminisms in 
Italian Theory of the Seventies and Eighties.” 


136 Renate Holub 


point.!> Diotima has immensely profited from this French theorist, and Luisa 
Muraro, who is considered the most eminent member of this community of 
philosophers, has conveniently translated most of Irigaray’s work into Italian. 
What Diotima has adopted from Irigaray is the radical critique of western 
conceptualities, which assume neutrality while simultaneously endowing 
language, concepts, and terms with the value laden symbolic substructures of a 
sexed discourse. As Irigaray entitled one of her books, “parler n’est jamais 
neutre”: speaking always implies the sexed nature of language. If Diotima 
recognizes that sexual difference has kept women from commanding the 
languages of philosophy, of the conceptual, of the symbolic, she also recognized 
that women’s marginalization from the languages of the symbolic constitutes 
simultaneously her marginalization from social and public spheres. “How can 
woman become a subject?” asks Diotima in II filo di Arianna. Letture della 
differenza sessuale (1987). And further: How can she love herself, if indeed her 
effective situation is to be in exile, to love others, her children, a man, a house? 
How can woman become a subject if the symbolic, the linguistic, the conceptual 
within which she moves is not of her own making(73-82)? In an attempt to 
begin to look for ways which could transform woman into a subject, Diotima 
has worked out a series of theoretical models. There are two which I would like 
to comment on. One is perhaps best described as the theory of a social or public 
symbolic practice. The second one we might describe as a private symbolic 
practice. Whereas the first focused on possibilities of woman’s being in the 
social world, the second focuses on woman’s being in the world at all: Mettere al 
mondo il mondo. Oggetto e oggettivita alla luce della differenza sessuale (1990). 
And finally, whereas the first privileges the realm of ethics as an entry into the 
realm of knowledge, the second appears to privilege the realm of ontology as an 
entry. What both have in common is the desire to construct a truly feminine 
order, a world of the feminine. 

Diotima’s explorations into a feminine ethics proceeds something like this: 
It is unlikely that woman can become a subject if she identifies with the mother, 
fuses with her origins, and by extension identifies with and fuses with women in 
an undifferentiated fashion. The mother has been excluded from the symbolic and 
it is unlikely that a woman gains presence in, and an access to, social reality if 
she identifies with an absence in that reality, with her mother and other women. 
Diotima suggests to take recourse to a different relation, not to identification and 
fusion with the mother, but to a relation that stresses difference, distantiation, 
and differentiation. Indeed, it is a relation of difference between symbolic mothers 
and daughters which powerfully creates the condition of new and liberatory 
possibilities. By positing herself not as the same but as different from the other 
woman, who is in any event “the other” of male discourse, by positing, that is, 


15 For a sustained treatment of the relation of Irigaray to Diotima see my article “The Politics 
of ‘Diotima,” and in particular “Between the U.S. and Italy.” 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 137 


herself as similar but not as the same, woman creates the condition for 
exploiting the double alterity inscribed in woman’s condition. She is at once 
“the other” of male discourse, but also the “similar other” of a feminine 
discourse. This can be activated for feminist purposes, indeed, as an awareness of 
the double-alterity becomes the guid pro quo of a feminine ethics, a mediating 
category that moves women from non being into being, from non-subjecthood 
to subject-hood, from non-freedom to freedom. 

In a publication written by the Milan Women’s Bookstore Collective 
(1987/1990), the authors have proposed that the notion of double-alterity, with 
its immense theoretical dimensions, had been the logical outcome of feminism 
in Italy, insofar as women who exist with other women in an undifferentiated 
fashion exist not only next to other woman but also separated and isolated from 
sociality at large. This condition seemed to harbor few possibilities for higher 
stages of liberation and freedom and for the construction of a liberated feminine 
subject. On the other hand, by introducing the notion of double-alterity and an 
understanding of its potential, it was argued that the grounding of women’s 
freedom could be founded on more propitious grounds. 

Crucial for this liberatory process, which is individual and collective at 
once, is the category of the “‘affidamento.” How does it work? A woman, perhaps 
a younger woman of less experience, and of less social and political prestige, 
privilege, and power, entrusts herself to another woman, perhaps, but not 
necessarily, older, with more prestige, more power, and more status. In this 
process of “‘affidamento” the age old relation between mother and daughter is 
symbolically activated, a relation that is not balanced and is unequal in that the 
mother has an emotional, physical, and psychological advantage over the 
daughter. The “mother” will then use her power to mediate between the outside 
world and the “daughter,” between the patriarchal and phallocratic law of the 
father and the realm of the daughter that is devoid of a specifically feminine 
symbolic, a language, a conceptuality, and an ethics. In that act of mediation, 
that which exists among women in spite and because of their differences, that 
which is latent and similar in woman precisely because they live a sexual 
difference, perhaps the remnants or traces of metaphorics of an ancient, buried, 
and forgotten imaginary, rises to the surface, and powerfully becomes activated, 
and the potentialities of a feminine subject begin to spark: a feminine language, 
culture, and symbolic can be created, particularly as this project does not remain 
and cannot remain a project between a few individuals, two women. Since these 
two women are always already social beings, living in political and civil 
societies, that project takes on collective dimensions. Indeed, women then 
mediate between their needs and the reality principle of phallocratic society, not 
in order to adjust their needs, their desire for a language, a symbolic, a culture of 
their own, to that principle, but in order to adjust that principle to their desires. 
This progression towards a realization of feminine needs and desires, towards the 
unearthing of the remnants of an ancient feminine imaginary as well as towards 


138 Renate Holub 


the birthing of a feminine symbolic, is made possible, so it seems, by the nature 
of that interaction between women, by the process of “‘affidamento.” Crucial for 
the practice and the process of “‘affidamento” is the act of recognition, an act that 
changes one state of consciousness into another, an act by which consciousness 
leaps forward, both quantitatively and qualitatively. In the act of recognition, a 
consciousness acknowledges, recognizes, knows that it is not identical to but 
different from other consciousnesses, from the consciousness of the other 
woman. Its possibility for freedom is contingent on engaging with the other, a 
differentiated consciousness, in an act of distantiation that recognizes, 
acknowledges, and, most importantly, affirms and accepts the power differential 
between women. The two women of differential power engage one another not in 
a life and death struggle as in Hegel’s master/slave dialectic, but in an act of 
dialectic nonetheless. By entrusting herself to another woman in recognition of 
the differential that exists between the two, a woman mediates her social 
alienation resulting from an engagement that seeks identification and fusion. 
Simultaneously, by accepting the gift of “affidamento,” by acknowledging, 
recognizing, and affirming the distantiated trust of another woman, the more 
powerful woman must account and is held accountable for her mediation between 
the outside world, the phallocratic symbolic orders, and the as of yet non-existent 
world of feminine symbolics. Although it seems that it is the less powerful 
woman who gains and the more powerful woman who loses in that encounter, 
the dialectics of the “affidamento” make both women winners in that struggle. 
For it is not by being-for-herself, by being a simple consciousness, but by being 
self-consciousness, by being-for-herself-in-herself, that the feminist spirit reaches 
its liberatory goal. That goal is achieved by recognizing and desiring to be being- 
in-and-for-the-other in a differentiable way, in the more liberated realm of stage 
three, a stage where consciousness can be-in-and-for-itself, a free consciousness, 
that is both simple and complex, identical with but also different from the other. 
Both women move towards that stage, although they set out from different point 
of departures. By engaging with the “daughter” in the dialectic of the 
“‘affidamento,” the more powerful woman experiences a moment of reversal: in 
being held accountable by the other woman, she lives in momentary bondage. 
By desiring that accountability and by actually being accountable for the other 
woman, the more powerful woman both reverses her bondage to a non-bondage 
while simultaneously lessening the less powerful woman’s bondage from the 
phallocratic world. And conversely, by engaging with the “mother,” the less 
powerful woman overturns her double alterity, her bondage to the phallocratic 
world and to the world of the “mother.” She turns this very actual existence of 
double-bondage, of being oppressed by the patriarchal order of men and women 
alike into a double advantage by recognizing the power of double-alterity. The 
images that ensue are as elegant and beautiful as those of a mathematical 
equation. Mothers and daughters, by potentiating the numbered roots of their 
imaginary, squarely unleash infinitesimal symbolic powers. 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 139 


There is no doubt that Diotima operates, whether expressly stated or not, 
with the dialectical process of Hegel’s Phenomenology, in particular as it worked 
out in the sections on dependence and independence of self-consciousness.!° 
Indeed, Diotima not only appropriates a version of the master/slave dialectic, but 
also uses parts of Hegel’s ambitious political project, as it is worked out in his 
Philosophy of Right.17 In both cases Diotima adjusts Hegel to its own 
purposes, as it uses those aspects of the Hegelian system which are functional to 
its program of a feminine/feminist ethics. Yet if Diotima focused on ethics in its 
first major research program, it has moved, as of late, towards the ontological in 
what ‘ooks to be its second and otherwise extraordinarily unprecedented major 
research program in feminist thought. And moreover, if Diotima operated with 
vestiges of the Hegelian dialectic earlier, it now makes a striking leap into a 
territory almost exclusively dominated by women philosophers. The propensity 
to look for feminine figures and models was never quite absent in Diotima’s 
programs, as the name “Diotima” itself suggests. With the latest Mettere al 
mondo il mondo, however, Diotima has radically left behind, and perhaps 
inexorably so, the shores of western philosophizing. It has entered the world of 
women philosophers, of Santa Teresa D’ Avila, of Hannah Arendt, of Edith 
Stein, of Simone Weil, splendid women thinkers who seem to have, and this is 
at least what Diotima proposes, always already searched for ways of imprinting 
on the world their understanding of the world. It is an understanding from a 
woman’s point of view, from a point of view situated in woman’s and not man’s 
body. 

Against the background of Simone Weil, Diotima relates the notion of 
progress to an inability to know how to safeguard the present and to know how 
to support it. This attention to the present turns up again in other parts of the 
project in so far as these philosophers would like to distinguish their very own 
emotions and desires within a world which is not of their own making. There 
seems to be an enormous effort to approach the “real,” which is not reducible to 
the present, to that which is, but rather the real stands in a relation between that 
which is and that which cannot be, between the patriarchal order, and that which 
is not anticipated in that order. Diotima still searches the horizons for a feminine 
symbolic, yet her sense of politics has assumed new dimensions. No longer 
future oriented, she now doubts that on the basis of a feminine genealogy, a 
feminine symbolics, or a feminine strength, the patriarchal structure can be 
annulled. What Diotima proposes instead and in addition to it is the notion of 
political action as contemplation, whereby the ecstatic acts of contemplation 
rupture the linear time of the patriarchal project. There are moments of 
perfection, of feminine perfection, and perhaps of perfect feminine freedom, if 


16 Hegel, The Phenomenology of Mind 228-40. 
17 Hegel’s Philosophy of Right (105-22) on “Ethical Life” and The Phenomenology of Mind 
(462-505) on “The Ethical Order.” 


140 Renate Holub 


only we read that which is positive in the situations in which we live. And 
against the background of Santa Teresa d’Avila, Diotima experiments with 
passions for one’s freedom in the most radical sense. This includes the path 
towards mystical experiences as outlined by Teresa d’Avila in her many 
publications and manuals. The notion of excess implicit in the mystical 
experiences are related to a capacity for the infinite, a capacity which is not 
unrelated to, indeed it is most intrinsically part of, a woman’s body. What 
appears in the most advanced Italian feminist theory are again Irigaray’s shadows, 
yet this time Irigaray has to share the limelight with the great realist thinkers of 
a feminine philosophical tradition. Luisa Muraro’s brilliant essay “La nostra 
comune capacita d’infinito,” places the power of the feminine mystical tradition 
in general and of the feminine mystical experience in particular at the center of 
the discussion, where the disappearance of the “I” in ecstasy functions as the 
mediating factor between being and thought. What seems to propel the latest 
research of Diotima is not a facile celebration of the mystical, as it might seem 
on the surface, but an investigation of how a woman’s body, at this point in 
history, can provide form to fluidity, can capture the real in its presence as well 
as in its absence. The mystical is perhaps but one answer for a most rigorous 
symbolic practice for and of women. Yet if we observe the enormous efforts 
Diotima has put forth over the last decade or so in order to probe the 
possibilities of a feminine ethics, epistemology, and ontology, I would not be 
surprised if she came up, in the future, with answers as well. In this consists 
Diotima’s unsettling realism. 

Both of Diotima’s projects are highly ambitious. They take place at the 
margin of the international feminist community, literally and metaphorically. 
What is most striking about Diotima is her enormous sophistication, her deep 
understanding of the philosophical and theoretical traditions and her refusal to 
look for shortcuts when probing complex and painful issues. She refuses to 
speak in a confusing tongue, as she refuses not to insist on continuing to probe 
the very difficult questions of our existence as women. She has dealt with the 
uneasy relation of power among women, a topic which predominant feminist 
theory on this side of the ocean has studiously and successfully avoided. And in 
that context, she has come up with a solution which as of yet has no rival in the 
international feminist theory. Ultimately, what I find most fascinating, is the 
splendid self-assurance by which Diotima continues to do her own thing. In 
wisdom, demeanor and style, Diotima, more than any other feminist school of 
thought, comes closest to the ancient Diotima, the woman of Mantineia, the 
wise woman who taught Socrates all he would ever know about love, about the 
union of body and mind, and about the challenges that pour forth from that 
union. In the short run, and due to the ways things stand in the transcultural 
critical business, Diotima has little power perhaps in rupturing the complacent 
poverty of feminist ethics which structures our life world ever since the 
retrenchment of feminism in the eighties. Quite possibly, her propositions are 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 141 


perhaps an all too strong ethical program. Yet given the principles of 
arbitrariness that seem to govern the production and the distribution of discursive 
practices, there is no way to predict whether Diotima’s radical story might be 
next on the market. And given the logic of the “postmodern” by which most 
discourses become increasingly colonized and often politically neutralized by the 
hegemonic tendencies embedded in increasing systems of systematizations, it 
remains to be seen whether Diotima’s all too radically ethical story is deemed 
conveniently colonizable by hegemonic transculturalism. In that case we would 
have :‘< argue against Luhman in so far as some margins are simply too 
subversive to be subsumed by the powers that be, thereby supporting the 
“postmodern” thesis, not invented by me, that the marginal is often empowered 
to subvert the self-propelling systems and hegemonic systematizations. 


Massachusetts Institute for Technology 


142 Renate Holub 


Works Cited 


Baecker, Dirk and Jiirgen Markowitz, eds. Theorie als Passion. Niklas Luhmann zum 
60. Geburtstag. Frankfurt: Suhrkamp,1987. 

Bette, Karl-Heinrich. “Was ist der Kérper.” Baecker and Markowitz 600-29. 

Bimbi, Franca, Laura Grasso, and Maria Zancan. Gruppo di filosofia Diotima. II filo di 
Arianna. Letture della differenza sessuale. Roma: Cooperativa Utopia, 1987. 
Borradori, Giovanna. “Introduction: Recoding Metaphyscs: Strategies of Italian 

Contemporary Thought.” Borradoril-27. 
, ed. Recoding Metaphysics: The New Italian Philosophy. Evanston: 
Northwestern UP, 1988. 

Braidotti, Rosi. Patterns of Dissonance. A Study of Women in Contemporary 
Philosophy. New York: Routledge, 1991. 

Carravetta, Peter. Prefaces to the Diaphora. Rhetorics, Allegory, and the 
Interpretation of Postmodernity. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1990. 

. “Repositioning Interpretative Discourse.” Differentia, Review of Italian 
Thought 2 (1988): 83-124. 

Cavarero, Adriana, Cristiana Fischer, Elvia Franco, Giannina Longobardi, Veronica 
Mariaux, Luisa Muraro, Anna Maria Piussi, Wanda Tommasi, Anita Sanvitto, 
Betty Zamarchi, Chiara Zamboni, Gloria Zanardo. Diotima. Il pensiero della 
differenza sessuale. Milano: La Tartaruga, 1987. 

. “Per una teoria della differenza sessuale.” Cavarero et al. 41-81. 

Descombes, Vincent. Modern French Philosophy. Trans. L. Scott-Fox and J. M. 
Harding. Cambridge: Cambridge UP,1980. French ed. 1979. 

Diotima. Mettere al mondo il mondo. Oggetto e oggettivita alla luce della differenza 
sessuale. Milano: La Tartaruga, 1990. 

Gargani, Aldo, ed. Crisi della ragione. Nuovi modelli nel rapporto tra sapere e attivita 
umane. Torino: Einaudi, 1979. 

. La frase infinita. Thomas Bernhard e la cultura austriaca. Roma: Laterza, 
1990. 

. Il sapere senza fondamenti. La condotta intellettuale come strutturazione 
dell’ esperienza comune. Torino: Einaudi, 1975. 

. Lo stupore e il caso. Roma: Laterza, 1985. 

Ginzburg, Carlo. “Spie. Radici di un paradigma indiziario.” Gargani, ed. 107-27. 

Harvey, David. The Condition of Postmodernity. Oxford: Basic Blackwell Ltd., 1989. 

Hegel, G. W. F. The Phenomenology of Mind. Trans. and J. B. Baillie. Sec. ed. 
London: George Allen & Unwin, 1910. New York: Humanities Press, 1977. 

. Philosophy of Right. Ed. and trans. T. M. Knox. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 
1952. 

“Ethical Life.” Philosophy of Right 105-22. 

“The Ethical Order.” Phenomenology 462-505. 

Holub, Renate. “Between the U.S. and Italy: Critical Reflections on Diotima’s 
Feminine/Feminist Ethics.” In Giovanna Miceli Jeffries, ed. Feminism and 
Femininity in Italy (forthcoming). 

. “For the Record: The Non-Language of Italian Feminist Philosophy.” 
Romance Language Annual 1 (1990): 133-40. 
. “The Politics of ‘Diotima.’” Differentia 5 (1991). 











Weak Thought and Strong Ethics 143 


. “Towards a New Rationality: Notes on Feminism and Current Discursive 
Practices in Italy.” Discourse 4 (1981-82): 89-107. 

. “Subtextual Feminisms in Italian Theory of the Seventies and Eighties.” 
Paper read at the Conference on Contemporary Italian Thought. Ottawa, Carleton 
University, Oct. 1990. 

Holub, Robert C. Jiirgen Habermas, Critic in the Public Sphere. London: Routledge, 
1991. 

Lacoue-Labarthe, Philippe. Heidegger, Art and Politics. The Fiction of the Political. 
Ti-s. Chris Turner. London: Basic Blackwell, 1990. French ed. 1990. 

Luhmann, Niklas. Liebe als Passion: Zur Codierung von Intimitét. Frankfurt: 
Suhrkamp, 1982. 

and Jiirgen Habermas. Theorie der Gesellschaft oder Sozialtechnologie - Was 
leistet die Systemforschung? Frankfurt: Suhrkamp, 1971. 

Lyotard, Jean-Francois. The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge. Trans. 
Geoff Bennington and Brian Massumi. For. Fredric Jameson. Theory and History 
of Literature 10. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1984. Trans. of La Condition 
postmoderne: rapport sur le savoir. Paris: Les Editions de Minuit, 1979. 

The Milan’s Women Bookstore Collective. Sexual Difference. A Theory of Social- 
Symbolic Practice. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1990. It. ed. 1987. 

Muraro, Luisa. “La nostra comune capacita d’infinito.” Diotima 61-77. 

Nietzsche. I] soggetto e la maschera. Nietzsche e il problema della liberazione. 
Milano: Bompiani, 1974. 

Poster, Mark. The Mode of Information. Poststructuralism and Social Context. 
Chicago: The U of Chicago P, 1990. 

Tyrell, Hartmann. “Romantische Liebe. Ueberlegungen zu ihrer ‘quantitativen 
Bestimmheit.’” Baecker and Markowitz 570-600. 

Vattimo, Gianni. Al di la del soggetto. Nietzsche, Heidegger e I'ermeneutica. Milano: 
Feltrinelli, 1981 (Idee 1984). 

. Il soggetto e la maschera. Nietzsche e il problema della liberazione. Milano: 
Bompiani, 1974. 
and Pier Aldo Rovatti, eds. Jl pensiero debole. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1983. 








Rocco Capozzi 


Dalla “letteratura e industria” 
all’industria del postmoderno* 





L’etichetta “letteratura e industria” denota una parentesi alquanto breve ma di 
notevole importanza nella letteratura italiana contemporanea tra la fine degli anni 
’50 e gli inizi degli anni ’60 — per essere specifici tra il 1957, pubblicazione di 
Tempi stretti di Ottieri e de II lavoro culturale di Bianciardi, e il 1965, uscita de 
Il padrone di Parise.! Purtroppo, proprio perché la “narrativa industriale” nasce e 
vede il suo meglio mentre in Italia, in alcuni circoli, si dibatte ancora la 
questione realismo/neorealismo e, poco dopo, quando la critica deve far fronte 
alle nuove proposte di letteratura promosse dai sostenitori del Gruppo 63 e della 
neoavanguardia, diverse opere di questo periodo, incluse quelle di scrittori come 
Volponi, Ottieri, Bianciardi e Parise, fuori dalle ripetute discussioni sul processo 
corrosivo dell’alienazione industriale, ricevono poca attenzione come esempi di 
narrativa intesa ad analizzare gli effetti dell’ industrializzazione sugli intellettuali e 
sulla societa intera in un paese impreparato ai grandi cambiamenti socio- 
economici e culturali che scaturivano da questo processo di trasformazione. Nel 
1961, nel “Menabo” 4, in Jndustria e letteratura, Vittorini apriva il dibattito 
sottolineando che la verita industriale risiede nella catena di effetti che il mondo 
delle macchine mette in moto e sostenendo che la questione di letteratura e 
industria andava al di 14 della semplice tematica della fabbrica. Infatti, molti 
artisti, registi e scrittori cercarono di affrontare i nuovi problemi che si celavano 
sotto l’ottimismo dell’industrializzazione. Si pensi alle problematiche che 
affiorano nel cinema e nella letteratura di Antonioni, Bianciardi, Volponi, Sereni, 
Leonetti, Mastronardi, Parise, Calvino, o Pasolini, tanto per fare i primi nomi.” 


* Tl testo che segue, con leggeri ritocchi, é stato letto al symposium “Gli scrittori, le tendenze 
letterarie e il conflitto delle poetiche in Italia 1960-90” che ha avuto luogo a Toronto il 19-20 
aprile 1990. 

} Ottieri, Tempi stretti; La linea gotica; Donnarumma all’ assalto; Bianciardi, [I lavoro culturale; 
L’ integrazione; La vita agra; Parise, [1 padrone; Mastronardi, [| maestro di Vigevano; Volponi, 
Memoriale; La macchina mondiale; Vorporale; e pit recente, Le mosche del capitale. 
Ovviamente qui porto come esempi un numero ristretto di autori e di opere di “letteratura e 
industria” e naturalmente in questi parametri non discuto affatto la narrativa cosiddetta 
“letteratura selvaggia” — ad esempio, Tuta blue di Tommaso di Ciaula che esce nel 1978 (con 
un’introduzione di Volponi). 

2 Sereni, Gli strumenti umani. I film di Antonioni a cui mi riferisco sono II grido, L’eclisse e I 
deserto rosso. Di Pasolini penso innanzitutto a Teorema. 











Dalla “letteratura e industria” all industria del postmoderno 145 


E si veda come due romanzi ambientati a pochi chilometri di distanza da Napoli, 
Donnarumma all’ assalto di Ottieri e Era l’anno del sole quieto di Bernari,? 
mettono a fuoco i diversi problemi che accompagnano le difficolta di 
industrializzare il Mezzogiorno: problemi dovuti sia all’impreparazione di questa 
societa, sia perché mentre si cercava di creare nuove strutture che avrebbero 
dovuto favorire l’intero Meridione nuove burocrazie e corruttele si inserivano 
prima ch: le fabbriche aprissero i cancelli. 

Il numero di studi dedicati alla letteratura industriale é tutt’oggi molto 
esiguo;* ma questa lacuna critica veniva notata gia nel 1968, nell’Almanacco 
Bompiani, dove negli interventi di Bigiaretti, Vicari, Gramigna e Baldacci 
leggiamo: “La societa industriale resta, ma la letteratura non se ne interessa pill”; 
“la querelle su letteratura e industria sembra lontana migliaia di anni luce” (36). 
A mio avviso, questa tendenza letteraria associata fin troppo al cosiddetto 
miracolo economico-industriale di quegli anni andrebbe (ri)esaminata pit a fondo 
per le caratteristiche ideologiche, sociologiche, linguistiche e strutturali che si 
riallacciavano sin d’allora alla tematica pit globale della produzione dell’ industria 
della cultura postmoderna. E quindi si dovrebbe riesaminare il successo o il 
fallimento di questa letteratura come un tentativo di rinnovare il romanzo italiano 
e come disamina dei mutamenti e delle problematiche apportate dalla nuova realta 
industriale e neo-capitalista italiana (realta che in altri paesi era diventata post- 
industriale e tardo-capitalista e che negli USA veniva gia definita post-modern). 
Un ritorno (senza nostalgia) agli anni ’60, oltre a rivalutare alcuni romanzi 
apparsi in questo periodo, aiuterebbe a chiarire perché uno scrittore come Paolo 
Volponi abbia costantemente riesaminato i rapporti tra scrittori, intellettuali, 
scienza, industria, tecnologia, capitalismo e societa, e quindi come e perché con 
Le mosche del capitale sia ritornato su una delle tematiche che gli stanno pit a 
cuore: la distinzione tra le potenzialita positive e progressiste dell’industria e il 
potere asservente e fagocitante del capitale. Tematica che, come stiamo per 
discutere, ci riporta ai dibattiti iniziati su “Il menabd” (4 e 5) da protagonisti 
quali Vittorini, Calvino, Fortini, Leonetti, Forti, Scalia e Eco, e che continuano 
tutt’oggi con le polemiche sul postmoderno. Va aggiunto che un ritorno 
all’inizio degli anni ’60 ci darebbe una seconda occasione per studiare le fonti 
americane della letteratura postmoderna (quando la televisione, il cinema, i mass 
media, e le arti op/pop facevano sentire la loro presenza nella letteratura — e 


3 Per alcuni critici Bemari rimane tra i primi narratori italiani ad aver parlato di operai e 
industria con Tre operai (1934). 

4 Per quanto non manchino note e articoli apparsi in riviste e naturalmente dei capitoli in cui si 
fa una rassegna di alcune opere (Zolla, Tesari, Vené, Luperini, ecc.), dopo gli articoli apparsi nei 
numeri 4 e 5 de “Il menabd” (1961; 1962), gli studi dedicati esclusivamente alla tematica 
“letteratura e industria” o “letteratura aziendale” rimangono: Letteratura e industria a c. di Tesari, 
L’ industria di Leone e Scrittori e industria a c. di Chicco Vitizzai. Molto pid ricca é la 
bibliografia sull’industria della letteratura; basta pensare agli scritti di E. Golino, G. F. Ferretti, 
S. Piccone-Stella, A. Cadioli, V. Spinazzola, A. Abruzzese, O. Calabrese e U. Eco. 


146 Rocco Capozzi 


naturalmente quando critici come Leslie A. Fiedler incoraggiavano una letteratura 
che aboliva la barriera tra cultura alta e cultura bassa).> In Italia la discussione sul 
postmoderno arriva molto pit tardi e cioé solo dopo i dibattiti intrapresi tra 
Lyotard e Habermas, e direi che per molti diventa un vero e proprio argomento di 
critica letteraria dopo che Umberto Eco, nelle Postille a Il nome della rosa, 
suggerisce che il postmoderno é ormai un termine troppo abusato.® 

Dai giorni dell’iniziale fiducia nell’establishment industriale, prima alla 
Olivetti (come direttore delle relazioni aziendali) e poi alla Fiat, Volponi ha 
costantemente creduto nelle possibilita di umanizzare |’ industria, fiducioso che il 
nemico dell’uomo non sia la macchina o il computer ma la sete di profitto delle 
“mosche del capitale” che sfruttano l’apparato industriale e tecnologico. 
L’ industria e la tecnologia dovrebbero infatti contribuire al progresso. Purtroppo, 
il poiere totalizzante del capitale é diventato tale che dai giorni di Memoriale, 
nonostante la loro fiducia iniziale in un’industria avanzata e dispensatrice di beni 
e, innanzitutto, in un’industria che non minacci la cultura agraria e artigianale, 
personaggi come Saluggia, Crocioni, Aspri e Saraccini diventano sempre pit 
cinici, fino a sentirsi totalmente disincantati e sconfitti nei loro tentativi di 
inserire valori umanistici nella logica produttiva di un’industria il cui fine unico 
é il profitto. Saraccini ne Le mosche del capitale capisce che nell’universo 
industriale il capitale é diventato tutto e che purtroppo il suo umanesimo, la sua 
astrattezza ideologica e la sua vecchia fiducia nei rapporti umani non hanno piu 
posto nella nuova industria. Ecco quindi che il computer ricorda al ficus: “oggi 
non é pit il tempo delle human relations” (165). 

Le prime reazioni dei recensori sono state quasi tutte positive nel valutare Le 
mosche del capitale come una riuscitissima narrativa allegorica (moderna e/o 
postmoderna) intesa a riflettere il potere del capitale. L’unica critica negativa 
sembra provenire da chi ha lamentato una mancanza di suggerimenti risolutivi o 
da coloro che hanno visto una presunta eccessiva ingenuita dell’autore nei 


5 Tra i primi scritti fondamentali di Fiedler in cui vediamo il suo atteggiamento postmodemo 
ricorderei: The Middle against Both Ends (1955), The Death of Avant-Garde Literature (1964), 
The New Mutants (1965) e Cross the Border — Close the Gap (1970). Questi ed altri saggi sono 
raccolti nei due volumi The Collected Essays of Leslie Fiedler. 

© Ad un convegno all’Universita di Siena nella primavera del 1990, ebbi occasione di far 
presente ai colleghi italiani che mentre loro si accingevano a discutere il postmoderno in base 
alla pubblicazione di // postmoderno e la logica del tardo capitalismo di Jameson e La sociata 
trasparente di Vattimo (due volumi usciti alla fine dell’estate del 1988) e partendo da dibattiti tra 
Lyotard e Habermas alla fine degli anni ’70, in realta il postmodemo é un fenomeno socio- 
artistico-culturale americano iniziato tra la fine degli anni ’50 e 1’inizio degli anni ’60. Il mio 
intervento voleva fare il punto sul postmoderno come un’avanguardia americana che purtroppo, 
dopo l’intervento dei teorici europei e americani, diventa un argomento che non solo sembra far 
parte del poststrutturalismo, del decostruzionismo o di tante altre metodologie in voga negli 
ultimi venti anni, ma che finisce per diventare un cliché vuoto di significato. Per questa mia 
storicizzazione del postmodemo in America si veda il mio saggio dal titolo /! dibattito critico in 
Nordamerica in Teoria e critica letteraria oggi ac. di Luperini. 








Dalla “letteratura e industria” all’ industria del postmoderno 147 


riguardi di Adriano Olivetti e dell’industria in generale. Qui mi limito a ribadire 
che tutt’altro che utopia o ingenuita, quella di Volponi é sempre stata una sincera 
fiducia nel ruolo delle macchine nell’ accelerare il benessere sociale. E se negli 
ultimi trent’anni Volponi non ha smesso di criticare il mondo dell’ industria é 
perché forse non ha mai abbandonato completamente la sua speranza/illusione 
iniziale cue ci siano ancora degli Adriano Olivetti che credono in un futuro 
migliore dove le macchine, i computers, le human e public relations e i mezzi di 
produzione e di distribuzione, tutt’altro che alienare e asservire l’uomo, 
dovrebbero renderlo piu libero offrendogli maggiori possibilita di appagare i suoi 
sogni socio-economici e culturali. 

Ne Le mosche del capitale siamo davanti ad una societa unidimensionale 
(direbbe Marcuse) dove tutti i personaggi si esprimono con lo stesso linguaggio 
saturo di neologismi che provengono dal mondo del business e dei managers. 
Non a caso vengono ricordate le universita di Harvard e di MIT, da dove 
provengono i grandi business managers. Percid ci sembra geniale che, un po’ 
come nel mondo dei fumetti, Volponi faccia parlare sedie, tavoli, borse, piante, 
quadri, un pappagallo, un canarino, un cane e un computer esattamente con lo 
stesso linguaggio dei dirigenti che li circondano. Ecco forse la pit bella novita di 
Volponi in questo romanzo: I’arte di far parlare gli oggetti e gli animali che si 
impongono in primo piano come personaggi e non come simboli 0 come voci 
dell’autore. Credo che sia difficile non apprezzare la disinvoltura con cui 
filosofeggiano il ficus e il pappagallo, o lo spirito parodico-postmoderno con cui 
dialogano il computer e la luna. Altrettanto significative sono le battute ironiche 
tra il cane Tozzo e il presidente Astolfo sulla fine del romanzo dell’industria e 
sulla fine della letteratura in generale: “— Ma cosa succede alla citta, alla societa, 
agli uomini dell’industria? Che cosa si pud raccontare di loro? — Niente. Non 
c’é niente da raccontare. Non si racconta piu. . . . Il racconto é finito. La 
narrazione, se vuole, é il bancone del supermercato. . . . La poesia non so bene 
che sia, né come si compia” (122-23).’ La riuscitissima allegoria della civilta 
industriale é presente sin dalle pagine iniziali dove Volponi stabilisce il tono 
satirico e parodico che domina l’intero romanzo. Qui troviamo il giovane 
Saraccini che guarda dall’alto di una collina la citta industriale (un po’ come 
Rastignac guarda Parigi pensando “ed ora a noi!”). La critica contro la societa 
asservita al capitale inizia con questa brillante descrizione di come mentre tutti 
dormono (grazie a sonniferi e medicinali) il computer, sempre sveglio, calcola 
incessantemente la crescita del capitale. Ora, proprio perché queste pagine si 
distinguono dal resto della narrativa che a volte tende ad essere un po’ pesante, 
potrebbe apparire che ne Le mosche del capitale, come succede spesso nei 
romanzi postmoderni, la forza del romanzo stia non tanto nell’opera intera quanto 


7 £ naturalmente tutti apprezzeranno le divertentissime pagine comico-satiriche in cui la 
poltrona della presidentessa Donna Fulgenzia racconta come viene in contatto (o meglio viene 
contaminata da) con il sedere della donna delle pulizie Teodolinda. 


148 Rocco Capozzi 


nelle singole pagine, e cioé in qualche riuscitissima descrizione/rappresentazione 
di un personaggio o di un evento, in qualche monologo, o in alcuni richiami 
parodico-citazionali. Comunque, moderno 0 postmoderno questo romanzo é uno 
dei migliori esempi di critica della civilta postmoderna; ed é una denuncia fatta 
con atteggiamento critico-conoscitivo e con l’ottica di chi sa di dover lavorare 
dentro lo stesso apparato che vorrebbe modificare. Ecco quindi una denuncia 
molto pit efficace dell’ipercritica di coloro che demonizzano o che rifiutano a 
priori, 0 in un modo semplicistico, 1’industria, la tecnologia, i computers, il 
postmoderno e tutto cid che non rientri nei parametri della loro ideologia e/o 
tradizione. 

Le mosche del capitale dimostra che la tematica “letteratura e industria” non 
solo non si é chiusa a meta degli anni ’60, ma che essa é oggi ancora pil attuale 
nella nostra societa postmoderna dove 1’industria, il profitto e la logica del 
capitale condizionano ogni aspetto della vita. Il romanzo é ricco di argomenti, 
situazioni e personaggi che provengono dal mondo della politica, dell’economia, 
della cultura, dei mass media e della letteratura (inclusa quella di Volponi).® 
Quindi Olivettti, Agnelli, il marketing, il PCI, Saragat, Fanfani, Kissinger, 
Harvard, la Cina, il problema dei meridionali che lavorano nel settentrione, gli 
scioperi e i licenziamenti alla Fiat, le banche, Cervantes, Galileo, Leopardi, 
Marcuse, Pasolini, Fortini, il computer, la musica di Mozart, i quadri di Turner, 
di Sironi, e di Lichtenstein,’ il settimanale “L’espresso”, i viaggi, ecc., hanno 
tutti la loro importanza in quanto fanno parte della nostra societa. E per quanto 
dubito che Volponi abbia voluto offrirci una narrativa postmoderna, alla Eco, in 
cui la societa consuma e ricicla oggetti, storia e cultura, tutto allo stesso modo, 
in Volponi trovo chiaramente illustrato lo spirito di “complicita” e di 
“disianziamento” necessario per analizzare e denunciare i mali o i tranelli della 
civilta tardo-capitalista e postmoderna. Parlo della stessa dimensione di 
“complicita e distanziamento” discussa da Linda Hutcheon (A Poetics of 
Postmodernism; The Politics of Postmodernism) — una dimensione che 
andrebbe identificata in opere cosi diverse come I] nome della rosa e Il pendolo di 
Foucault di Eco, in Ribes di Nico Orengo, nei romanzi di Stefano Benni, o in 
Un weekend postmoderno di P. V. Tondelli. E aggiungerei che questa é in parte 


8 Mi riferisco agli echi intratestuali che ci rimandano sia ai romanzi precedenti che alle poesie di 
Con testo a fronte. 
9 Nelle pagine 243-46, dove parla un quadro di Lichtenstein, troviamo una interessante 


osservazione che riflette lo spirito riformista volponiano. Sottolineo che dubito che qui ci sia 
dell’ironia: “Il quadro é dell’arte avanguardistica americana, assai sensibile all’ industria e ai suoi 
problemi di sviluppo. . . . Un’arte che purtroppo da noi manca, perché il nostro é un paese in 
ritardo, ancora privo di una cultura industriale avanzata. . . . Guardiamo dunque all’America e 
cerchiamo di aggiomarci sul suo modello” (246). Per una testimonianza dello spirito riformista 
di Volponi si veda l’incontro dell’ autore con gli studenti dell’universita di Siena: Di letteratura e 
industria, Paolo Volponi e la Pantera in “L’immaginazione”. 











Dalla “letteratura e industria” all’ industria del postmoderno 149 


la dimensione che va identificata in alcune opere di Calvino — da Cosmicomiche 
e T con zero a Se una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore — come del resto la critica 
nordamericana, soprattutto dopo il saggio di John Barth (The Literature of 
Replenishment), ha giustamente sottolineato studiando l’illustre narratore 
italiano accanto ad autori quali Borges, Vonnegut, Pynchon, e lo stesso Barth. 

Franco Fortini, con grande acume, é stato tra i primi critici italiani, sin dalla 
fine degli anni ’5O, a aver intuito che i dibattiti intorno a “Letteratura e industria” 
mettevano in discussione i rapporti tra intellettuali, scrittori e l’industria della 
letteratura. Qui non intendo parlare della trasformazione dell'industria editoriale 
italiana analizzata cosi bene da studiosi quali Golino, Ferretti, Spinazzola, 
Cadioli e Abbruzzese. Intendo invece considerare il fenomeno che colpisce 
industria culturale/massmediale nella civilta postmoderna e che coinvolge 
produttori, distributori, critici e consumatori dei prodotti di cultura, e che 
colpisce specificamente |’industria del romanzo contemporaneo. 

Nel 1958 in Per uno stato civile dei letterati Fortini impostava il problema 
dei rapporti tra scrittori e pubblico sostenendo che negli ambienti delle scienze e 
della tecnologia lo scrittore viene discreditato e lo si accusa di “vacuita, 
dilettantismo e scarsa serieta” (25). Inoltre, quando lo scrittore accede agli 
strumenti di cultura di massa egli viene “mediato, controllato e deformato dai 
funzionari organici dell’indusiria e della politica culturale” (27). Pit importante é 
quanto poi Fortini afferma: “I veri nemici della cultura e della liberta non sono 
né i partiti né le loro ideologie . . . ma le grandi istituzioni culturali di massa, la 
scuola, la stampa, |’editoria, la radiotelevisione, il cinema” (27). In un secondo 
articolo, Astuti come colombe, apparso quattro anni dopo ne “Il menabo” n. 5, 
Fortini ribadisce che “l’industria non é un tema, é /a manifestazione del tema che 
si chiama capitalismo” (35). Oggi se si sostituisce la parola industria col termine 
postmoderno credo che per Fortini (come per Fredrick Jameson)!° abbia 
altrettanto senso dire che il postmoderno non é un tema ma é la manifestazione 
del tema tardo-capitalismo postmoderno. Infatti dubito che Fortini abbia 
cambiato parere sul destino dell’ intellettuale nel mondo dell’ industria e dei mass 
media, e cioé della falsa o illusoria liberta dell’intellettuale sempre piu 
subalterno, mediatore e parte integrante del piano del capitale. Ma dubito pure 
che Fortini scoraggi gli intellettuali da qualsiasi partecipazione nell’industria 
della cultura massmediale. Dopo tutto, il suo lavoro é indice di come un 
intellettuale, volendo, pud mantenere la sua autonomia ideologica e artistica pur 
lavorando nell’industria dei media. Che oggi lo scrittore sia sempre pit 
compromesso con il mondo dei rapporti di produzione é fin troppo ovvio, anzi 
sarebbe un’illusione per uno scrittore o per un critico immaginare di poter 
condurre un lavoro culturale senza nessun compromesso. Ma qui rimanderei a 
studi come L’autocritica dell’intellettuale di Giancarlo Ferretti per una 


10 y saggio di Jameson, Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, scritto in 
parte all’inizio degli anni ‘80, é apparso nella rivista “New Left Review”. 


150 Rocco Capozzi 


discussione piii approfondita. Comunque, credo che la critica di Fortini, come 
quella pit recente di Luperini, nei confronti dell’industria culturale e del 
postmoderno provenga da una nozione 0 meglio da una profonda convinzione 
dell’arte come valore etico-morale e socio-politico in diretta opposizione a cid 
che Eco fa dire a Garamond ne I] pendolo, e cioé che oggi “I’editoria @ 
un’ industria, la pid nobile tra le industrie, ma un’ industria” (195). Purtroppo 
questa é una cruda realta che molti scrittori rifiutano perché non possono 
accettare l’idea che l’oggetto-libro sia diventato merce da mercato — neppure 
dopo l’ormai noto scherzo della casa editrice Feltrinelli che nell’estate del 1988 
metteva i libri in vendita al chilo. 

Il conflitto tra scrittori e critici sulla questione dell’ industria della cultura in 
Italia sembra accentuarsi con la pubblicazione di Eclissi dell’ intellettuale di E. 
Zolla nel 1959 (una critica aristocratico-apocalittica in cui notiamo il rifiuto del 
mondo della tecnologia in nome di un’ideologia umanistica). Fortini, in Astuti 
come colombe, denunciava le proposte di Vittorini, Calvino e Scalia come 
falsamente progressiste e conforme alle esigenze di ammodernamento culturale o 
di pseudoriformismo promosso dal neocapitalismo. Gianni Scalia, in Dalla 
natura all’ industria, sosteneva che il “compito di una letteratura contemporanea é 
quello di anticipare, ‘nella’ rappresentazione dell’alienazione industriale, il 
divenire della liberazione ‘dalla’ alienazione industriale” (153). E qui se 
all’espressione “alienazione industriale” sostituiamo 1l’espressione 
“massificazione postmoderna” notiamo come il suggerimento di Scalia @ valido 
tutt’oggi. Ma é innanzi tutto in Signor capitale e Signora letteratura (1977) — 
nella denuncia del “capitale eversivo” che “de-estetizza |’ arte per ri-estetizzarla 
altrimenti nelle forme della non-arte, dell’anti-arte” —- che Scalia sembra venirci 
pit incontro. Parlando della morte dell’ arte, in quanto nel potere totalizzante del 
capitale l’arte, non essendo pit un bisogno dello spirito, vive e muore nel 
mondo del lavoro e della produzione, Scalia sostiene che sta sempre all’arte 
compiere il cosiddetto “trucco sinonimico” (e io aggiungerei oggi specificamente 
allo scrittore postmoderno) saper “trasformare l’arte in sapere, in riflessione e 
autocoscienza” (Signor Capitale e Signora letteratura 166). Naturalmente la sfida 
al postmoderno é altrettanto implicita ne La sfida al labirinto di Calvino il quale 
suggeriva che compito dello scrittore e del critico @ quello di “compilare una 
mappa del labirinto, reagendo al fascino del labirinto” (96). Non dimentichiamo 
che come testimoniano Le lezioni americane, Calvino ha sempre avuto fiducia 
nel futuro della letteratura non sentendosi affatto minacciato dalla galassia 
elettronica che, secondo Marshall McLuhan, avrebbe sostituito quella di 
Gutenberg nella societa post-industriale. Nella Lezione 5: Molteplicita troviamo 
di fatto il suggerimento che “la grande sfida per la letteratura é il saper tessere 
insieme i diversi saperi e i diversi codici in una visione plurima, sfaccettata del 
mondo” (109-10). 

Ne “Ii menabo” 5, in Del modo di formare come impegno sulla realta, Eco 
intraprendeva un discorso che viene approfondito in Apocalittici e inte grati 








Dalla “letteratura e industria” all industria del postmoderno 151 


(1964), dove reagisce direttamente contro “l’intellettuale” di Zolla e contro una 
critica apocalittica nei riguardi dei mass media e della cultura di massa — opera 
importantissima proprio perché anticipa (come i saggi di Leslie Fiedler) le attuali 
polemiche sulla letteratura e le arti postmoderne. Ne “Il menabd” Eco accentuava 
come lingua e contenuto vanno aggiornati per parlare a un nuovo pubblico e, 
riferendosi alla lirica del cantante popolare Claudio Villa, afferma: “Costui 
sembra sfuggire alla realt4 inumana della macchina: il suo universo é definito dai 
concetti umanissimi di ‘cuore’ ’amore’ e ‘mamma’” (Del modo 203). Al polo 
opposto di Claudio Villa troviamo l’esempio di Antonioni ne L’eclisse e di 
Joyce nell’Ulysses per il modo in cui questi due si pongono nell’alienazione e la 
riducono a struttura formale. Jacques Barzun ha recentemente accentuato (The 
Culture We Deserve) che oggi abbiamo la cultura che ci meritiamo, ma Eco gia 
nell’introduzione a Apocalittici e integrati richiamava il detto che ogni epoca ha 
l’avanguardia e l’inconscio collettivo che si merita asserendo che “ogni societa 
culturale ha le ‘novita’ che si merita” (x). A mio avviso la carenza pill grave 
della critica fatta a Eco si trova nella critica di Pietro Citati, nella recensione La 
Pavone e Superman a braccetto di Kant, in quanto non solo Citati non considera 
l’intenzionalita dell’ interdisciplinarieta di Eco ma, cid che é pit importante, non 
tiene conto del pubblico cui viene indirizzata l’opera di un teorico che, come 
vediamo in Lector in fabula o ne Il nome della rosa, conosce (o meglio, 
considera essenziale) l’importanza di dover parlare a vari tipi e livelli di lettori."! 
Come per Eco cosi per noi, qui non si tratta di voler essere postmoderni ad 
ogni costo o di dover scegliere tra “conservatori amareggiati” e “progressisti in 
tensione” quanto invece di voler suggerire che forse é ora di riesaminare i 
parametri entro cui (re)agisce buona parte della critica di sinistra davanti alla 
produzione postmoderna. Sono pienamente d’accordo che gli “‘integrati” peccano 
di un eccessivo 0 ingenuo ottimismo nei confronti del postmoderno, ma credo 
pure che la critica “apocalittica”, richiamandosi ancora a Eco, vada rimproverata 
innanzitutto perché raramente tenta uno studio concreto dei prodotti e dei modi in 
cui vengono davvero consumati, e anziché analizzare il postmoderno caso per 
caso, per farne emergere le caratteristiche strutturali, lo nega in blocco. 
Sappiamo che mentre una chiara ideologia fa vedere a Marcuse |’ industria della 
comunicazione come un’operazione di appiattimento unidimensionale, una 
mancanza di ideologia (politica?) in McLuhan gli fa vedere la stessa realta come 
un fatto naturale della “galassia elettronica” in cui il messaggio va cercato nella 
forma stessa del messaggio. Lo stesso si pud dire per la critica di Zolla contro i 
mass media e la cultura di massa vista accanto a quella di Leslie Fiedler (Cross 
the Border — Close the Gap), il quale alla fine degli anni ’50 professava che era 


11 Daj giomi di Apocalittici e integrati Citati sembra aver continuato una critica pid ad 
hominem che critico-conoscitiva dell’opera di Eco. Basta vedere come tratta l’autore de // 
pendolo nella recensione Giocando a dadi con Eco e Foucault apparsa in prima pagina de La 
repubblica. 


152 Rocco Capozzi 


ora di chiudere la lacuna tra alta e bassa letteratura a favore di una cultura pop (o 
midcult). 

Nell’introduzione a II punto su: il romanzo poliziesco Giuseppe Petronio 
lamenta il modo in cui molti critici considerano il giallo come un mero oggetto 
di consumo (come paraletteratura, o Trivialliteratur) esclamando: “Ah critici, 
critici! Snob, razzisti, classisti, e, per dirla con eufemismo garbato, uomini di 
scarse letture” (86). Anche se Petronio non fa nessun riferimento al postmoderno 
bisogna chiedersi se qui il noto critico parli in generale dei limiti e dei pregiudizi 
di molti critici accademici nei confronti dei nuovi fenomeni culturali. E qui ci 
chiediamo se spesso non sia piu il critico (pit ironico quando egli é di tendenza 
marxista) che lo scrittore ad operare in una sfera culturale alquanto distante dalla 
realta quotidiana della massa. Inoltre c’é anche da chiedersi perché alcuni critici 
reagiscano negativamente a qualsiasi forma di commistione o trasgressione dei 
generi letterari. Certo, a volte si fanno eccezioni per gli scrittori affermati, e 
quindi va bene se Gadda, Calvino, Eco, o Malerba utilizzino strutture del giallo o 
dei fumetti, ma il giudizio é spesso ben diverso per i “nuovi narratori”. Ad 
esempio, quanti sono del parere di E. Sanguineti nel considerare la narrativa dei 
cosiddetti “giovani narratori”, accusati di produrre meri divertissements a- 
ideologici e a-storici, e di abbandonarsi a “un’eleganza inutile”?!? Ancora una 
volta credo che la risposta vada cercata non in una questione di gusti o di 
generazione ma in una dimensione ideologica. Richiamando Eco e l’esempio 
della lirica di Claudio Villa, sono del parere che oggi la critica al capitale 
postmoderno deve tener presente il background e le esigenze del pubblico della 
civilta attuale. In breve, dubito che servirsi esclusivamente dell’esempio del 
commercio dei lupini de J Malavoglia sia oggi il modo pit efficace di denunciare 
i mali del neocapitalismo della civilta massmediale alla generazione post- 
sessantottina “acculturatasi” davanti al televisore e davanti agli spots 
pubblicitari. Bisogna riconoscere che scrittori come Eco, Orengo, Benni, o 
Tondelli, e registi come M. Nichetti (si pensi ai suoi film come Ladri di 
saponette e Volere volare) offrono idee, immagini e tecniche artistiche pit 
facilmente accettabili da nuovo pubblico che negli ultimi trent’anni si é formato 
con stereotipi filmici, televisivi e massmediali. E vero che il postmoderno, 
contrario alla neo-avanguardia italiana, non parte da una contestazione distruttiva 
del potere proprio perché i suoi promotori iniziali non sembrano imporsi un 
impegno ideologico-politico. Ciononostante questo non significa che un’opera 
parodica 0 carica di ironia non possa condurre un’ operazione eversiva solo perché 
non rivela esplicitamente un’impostazione politica. Come disamina della societa 
industriale considero efficace sia le opere critico-conoscitive di Bianciardi, 
Volponi e Parise, sia l’operazione comico-grottesca di Lucio Mastronardi ne I] 
calzolaio di Vigevano. E come analisi della societa post-industriale postmoderna 


12 Per un resoconto delle reazioni di critici e scrittori italiani alla nuova narrativa rimando al 
mio Scrittori, critici e industria culturale dal '63 ad oggi. 


Dalla “letteratura e industria” all’ industria del postmoderno 153 


trovo altrettanto eversiva sia l’operazione di Nico Orengo in Ribes, dove 
assistiamo all’ironica e parodica trasformazione di una cittadina ligure in una 
“societa acllo spettacolo” (man mano che I'instaurazione di canali radiotelevisivi 
privati influiscono sulla vita di ogni cittadino), sia l’insieme di scene e 
performances in Un weekend postmoderno di Tondelli, sia la critica 
all’irrazionalismo contemporaneo de I pendolo di Foucault. 

Qui non possiamo decidere dove sia il divario tra un’operazione divulgativa 
O una dissacrazione postmoderna che permette di ridurre i testi di autori quali 
Dante, Shakespeare, Manzoni o Moravia a sceneggiati televisivi trasmessi 
accanto alle telenovelas, ai serials e ai supershows all’americana. Tantomeno 
possiamo discutere perché non sia una dissacrazione della letteratura (colta?) 
l’operazione di Eco il quale, per narrare la semiosi illimitata, l’intertestualita, la 
psicosi del sospetto, o “i limiti dell’interpretazione” ermetica, egli 
genera/ricostruisce ne Il nome della rosa e ne I pendolo di Foucault una piccola 
enciclopedia della cultura contemporanea con numerosissime passeggiate 
inferenziali che rimandano dalla Bibbia ai testi delle scienze esoteriche, da Dante 
a Pavese, dai videogames al mondo di Marlowe e di Indiana Jones, dai Templari 
alle brigate rosse o nere. Cio un’operazione in cui il lettore passa 
continuamente dal mondo della letteratura colta a quello pop e dalla Storia alla 
cronaca rosa o nera, grazie alla semiosi illimitata e alle citazioni postmoderne 
che trasgrediscono i confini dei vari generi. Comunque bisogna chiedersi se 
nell’attuale societa postmoderna ridurre i classici a sceneggiati televisivi, oppure 
richiamarli nei fumetti o nelle parodie e nei pastiches postmoderni non sia 
preferibile alla scelta di non farli conoscere affatto al pubblico massmediale. A 
prescindere che alla televisione, nei film, nella letteratura e nei media ci sia posto 
per tutto, direi che é tutta questione di saper distinguere (e gustare) tra un mero 
divertissement, un’operazione divulgativa, e le operazioni eversive di autori che 
per quanto possano sembrare complici del postmoderno in realta si distanziano da 
esso con ironia 0 con altri strumenti di distanziamento critico-conoscitivo. 

Oltre al pericolo inerente a ogni stasi ideologica, il problema pit grave che 
intravedo in molta critica italiana (innanzitutto quella marxista) del postmoderno 
é la mancanza di distinzione tra una critica rivolta ai teorici del postmoderno (a 
partire dalla fine degli anni ’70 con i dibattiti tra Lyotard e Habermas) e una 
Critica testuale di opere di autori postmoderni che sin dagli anni ’60 si sono 
proposti di analizzare con un’ottica ironica o parodica la produzione e il consumo 
dell’immaginario di massa della civilta postmoderna. Ad esempio, 
nell’introduzione a L’allegoria del moderno Luperini critica con sue buone 
ragioni “il nichilismo morbido” di Vattimo ma diventa generalizzante verso tutti 
i postmoderni nel denunciare (un po’ troppo alla Jameson) la rappresentazione 
postmoderna come “organica alle forze del potere”, “incapace di assumere” un 
minimo di distanza “critica e cognitiva”, e nell’insieme come una forma di 
“apologia dello status quo” (4-6). Per Luperini “la vera svolta epocale non si é 
avuta negli anni Cinquanta di questo secolo, ma nei primi decenni di quello 


154 Rocco Capozzi 


scorso” (4). A prescindere dal fatto che gli effetti culturali della rivoluzione 
industriale meccanica ottocentesca non sono di massa e colpiscono operai e 
borghesi in modi diversi, direi che é invece a cominciare dagli anni ’SO, con la 
scoperta dei microchip, con la diffusione dell’ informatica e con la massificazione 
dovuta ai media, che |’intera societa sente gli effetti della civilta tecnologica (la 
quale diventa sempre pit un “villaggio globale tecnologico”, per dirla con 
McLuhan). Si pensi a come la galassia elettronica ci permette, seduti a casa, di 
visitare luoghi e culture in qualsiasi luogo del nostro pianeta al semplice tocco 
del telecomando. Indubbiamente la televisione, il cinema e i mass media oggi 
continuano a rivoluzionare |’ immaginario collettivo molto pili velocemente che 
la scoperta del motore nel secolo scorso — una realta socio-culturale che non 
solo Marx ma neppure Benjamin potevano prevedere. 

Aggiungo che mentre sono tra i primi a denunciare la televisione e i media 
per il modo in cui ci offrono dei frammenti, spesso confusi, di immagini e di 
miti di una “societa dei simulacri”, sono anche tra i primi a chiedere di chi sia la 
colpa. Chi guarda gli shows all’americana alla televisione italiana? Dove sono 
gli intellettuali consulenti dei media italiani alla guida di quel fenomeno 
audiovisivo che negli anni 50 veniva considerato uno strumento miracoloso per 
raggiungere milioni di analfabeti — uno strumento capace di istruire e di far 
divertire portando nelle case musei, gallerie, musica, arte, cinema, luoghi e 
eventi in Italia e nel mondo intero? Naturalmente bisogna chiedersi pure qual sia 
il potere del pubblico, lo stesso pubblico che si rifiuta di leggere narratori e poeti 
sciocchi 0 illeggibili dovrebbe saper rifiutare 1 programmi stupidi e/o volgari. Di 
fatto, proprio perché é questione di produzione e di mercato é naturale che sia il 
pubblico a determinare, garantire e sostenere il successo commerciale di qualsiasi 
prodotto. 

Qui arriviamo alla questione di chi dovrebbe istruire e orientare il pubblico 
facendogli notare i tranelli della civilté postmoderna che sfrutta, oggettualizza e 
mercifica tutto sotto la maschera del benessere e del divertimento. Direi che 
l’intellettuale e il critico abbiano ancora un ruolo importante nella nostra societa, 
anche se a volte (per la troppa “visibilita massmediale” ?) invece di opinion 
makers essi diventano degli showmen alla televisione, sui quotidiani e sui 
settimanali.!3 La “missione del critico” (rimando al testo omonimo di 
Sanguineti) a mio avviso rimarrebbe quella di rendere pit trasparente la 
superficialita della societa postmoderna in quelle opere che non fanno altro che 
appagare la pseudo-cultura e in quelle che glorificano il kitsch, il pastiche o le 


13 Naturalmente qui sto parlando in generale di critici, scrittori e intellettuali che sembrano 
insistere pil sul fare spettacolo o, se si vuole, sul creare polemiche, anziché svolgere un ruolo di 
interpreti dei fenomeni culturali che ci circondano. Parlo delle cosiddette “personalita” della 
cultura massmediale tipo Vittorio Sgarbi, Aldo Busi, Pietro Citati e Giovanni Raboni, tanto per 
fare i nomi pid illustri. Ma immagino che per gli accademici italiani bisognerebbe aggiungere 
anche Eco e Vattimo i quali sono cosi spesso on the road nelle universita nordamericane e 

europee. 


Dalla “letteratura e industria” all industria del postmoderno 155 


immagini (sia elettroniche che stampate) come realta autentiche, o peggio come 
se fossero ‘2 uniche forme di realta. Il critico non dovrebbe giudicare a priori la 
qualita solo per il fatto che l’autore e I’industria insistono sulla quantita. E cioé, 
anche se un best seller viene lanciato, premiato, recensito e pubblicizzato con le 
stesse operazioni di marketing (si pensi al caso Eco) con cui si lanciano i nuovi 
modelli di macchine, i film, i rock stars 0 qualsiasi nuovo prodotto per la massa, 
il critico ha il compito di giudicare i meriti artistici dell’opera e non 
semplicemente il modo in cui viene diffuso. Dice bene Eco quando sostiene che 
vendere la Bibbia in edizione paperback e in grande quantita non diminuisce il 
valore del Testo Sacro. 

In Un weekend postmoderno si richiama |’affermazione di Harold Bloom che 
“ogni critico ha bisogno di un poeta della propria generazione da seguire e con 
cui confrontarsi”. Tondelli aggiunge: “Ma anche un poeta, uno scrittore, un 
artista, ha bisogno di un critico della propria generazione con cui confrontarsi e 
discutere. E, sinceramente, nel campo letterario, non si vede granché 
all’orizzonte” (374). Dubito che sia una barriera generazionale a far rifiutare ad 
alcuni critici le opere cosiddette postmoderne di scrittori che, intenzionalmente, 
si propongono di riflettere una societa in cui il bagaglio culturale-libresco viene 
sostituito sempre di pit da un'insieme di performances cammevalesche fatte di 
suoni, immagini, echi e miti provenienti dalla televisione, dal cinema e dai 
media in generale. In Un weekend postmoderno troviamo accuratamente descritta 
questa societa postmoderna italiana lungo la famosa costa marchigiana, a 
Firenze, Roma, Milano o Napoli, che sembra identica a quella di Parigi, Londra 
o New York, proprio perché il condizionamento della civilta massmediale non 
conosce confini. Come si diceva, nella galassia elettronica il mondo si riduce a 
un “villaggio globale”. E quindi concluderei col ripetere che tutt’altro che a una 
querelle dei vecchi e dei giovani il conflitto tra critici apocalittici e integrati 
postmoderni nella societa postindustriale risale ad antagonismi intransigenti tra 
umanisti e promotori della cultura tecnico-scientifica, o a schieramenti ideologici 
che ostacolano il compito del critico nel confrontare (sfidare, diceva Calvino) dal 
di dentro la societé massmediale.!* Oltre alla sua funzione tradizionale di 
mediatore tra artista e pubblico, oggi, nel mercato delle lettere, sta soprattutto al 
critico massmediale il compito di guidare i lettori in un mondo sempre pit 
bombardato dalla stampa, dall’informatica elettronica, dagli oggetti usa e getta, 
dagli special effects. Il critico che ignora o rifiuta tutta la produzione industriale 
postmoderna senza decostruirla dai di dentro, e cioé senza un tentativo di 
smontarla per meglio capirla (anche senza illusioni di dominarla) — e quindi per 
smascherare i travestimenti e i condizionamenti del potere di chi controlla i 


14 Mi riferisco a quella che una volta si chiamava “la critica militante” e che oggi molti 
chiamano semplicemente la critica giomalistica. Per un resoconto di come critici e scrittori 
vedano la critica giornalistica oggi in Italia rimando al mio Scrittori, critici e industria culturale 
dagli anni ’60 ad oggi. 


156 Rocco Capozzi 


media —, o sottovaluta gli effetti di questa industria oppure s’illude di vivere, 
con nostalgia, in una civilta pre-massmediale convinto che la “vera” (?) 
letteratura non vada contaminata al mercato e dal mercato. 


University of Toronto 


Opere Citate 


Almanacco Bompiani, Milano, Bompiani, 1968. 

Barth John, The Literature of Replenishment, “The Atlantic” (January 1980), 64-71. 

Barzun Jacques, The Culture We Deserve, Middletown, Wesleyan UP, 1989. 

Benni Stefano, Bar Sport, Milano, Mondadori, 1976. 

, Terra, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1983. 

, 1l bar sotto il mare, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1987. 

Bernari Carlo, Era l’anno del sole quieto, Milano, Mondadori, 1964. 

, Tre operai, Milano, Rizzoli, 1934. 
Bianciardi Luciano, // lavoro culturale, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1957. 
, L’integrazione, Milano, Bompiani, 1960. 
, La vita agra, Milano, Rizzoli, 1962. Calvino Italo, La sfida al labirinto, “Tl 
menabo” 5 (1962). Ora in Una pietra sopra 82-97. 

, Cosmicomiche, Torino, Einaudi, 1963. 

, [ con zero, Torino, Einaudi, 1964. 

, S€ una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore, Torino, Einaudi, 1979. 

, Una pietra sopra, Torino, Einaudi, 1980. 

, Le lezioni americane, Milano, Garzanti, 1988. 

Capozzi Rocco, Il dibattito critico in nordamerica. Il romanzo postmoderno, né 
nostalgico né meccanico, in Teoria e critica letteraria oggi, a c. di Romano 
Luperini, pp. 87-110. 

, Scrittori, critici e industria culturale dagli anni '60 ad oggi, Lecce, Manni, 
1991. 

Citati Pietro, La Pavone e Superman a braccetto di Kant, “Il giorno” (14 ottobre 
1964). 

, Giocando a dadi con Eco e Foucault, “La repubblica” (21 ottobre 1988). 

Di Ciaula Tommaso, Tuta blu, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1978. 

Eco Umberto, Del modo di formare come impegno sulla realta, “Tl menabd” 5 (1962), 
198-237. 

, Apocalittici e integrati, Milano, Bompiani, 1964. 

, Il nome della rosa, Milano, Bompiani, 1980. 

, Il pendolo di Foucault, Milano, Bompiani, 1988. 

Ferretti Giancarlo, L’autocritica dell’ intelletuale, Padova, Marsilio, 1970. 

Fiedler Leslie, The Collected Essays of Leslie Fiedler, New York, Stein and Day 
Publishers, 1971. 

Fortini Franco, Astuti come colombe, “I] menabd” 5 (1962), 29-45. 




















Dalla “letteratura e industria” all’ industria del postmoderno 157 


, Verijica dei poteri. Bologna, Il Saggiatore, 1965. 
, Per uno stato cilvile dei letterati, in Verifica dei poteri 68-88. 
Jameson Fredrick, Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, “New 
Left Review” 146 (1984), 53-92. 
, Il postmoderno e la logica del tardo capitalismo, Milano, Garzanti, 1988. 
Linda Hutcheon, A Poetics of Postmodernism, New York, Routledge, 1988. 
, [he Politics of Postmodernism, New York, Routledge, 1989. 
Leone Michele, L’ industria nella letteratura italiana contemporanea, Saratoga, Anma 
Libri, 1976. 
Luperini Romano (a c. di), Teoria e critica letteraria oggi, Milano, Franco Angeli, 
1991. 
, L’allegoria del moderno, Roma, Editori Riuniti, 1990. 
Mastronardi Lucio, II calzolaio di Vigevano, Torino, Einaudi, 1962. 
, Il maestro di Vigevano, Torino, Einaudi, 1965. 
Orengo Nico, Ribes, Torino, Einaudi, 1988. 
Ottieri Ottiero, Tempi stretti, Torino, Einaudi, 1964. 
, La linea gotica, Milano, Bompiani, 1962. 
, Donnarumma all'assalto, Milano, Bompiani, 1963. 
Parise Goffredo, I] padrone, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1965. 
Petronio Giuseppe, // punto su: Il romanzo poliziesco, Roma, Laterza 1985. 
Sanguineti Edoardo, La missione del critico, Genova, Marietti, 1977. 
Scalia Gianni, Dalla natura all’ industria, “Tl menabo” 4. Ora in Critica, letteratura, 
ideologia, Padova, Marsilio, 1968, pp. 141-58. 
, Signor capitale e signora letteratura, Milano, Dedalo Libri, 1977. 
Sereni, Vittorio, Gli strumenti umani, Torino, Einaudi, 1965. 
Tessari Roberto (ac. di), Letteratura e industria, Milano, Zanichelli, 1976. 
Tondelli Pier Vittorio, Un weekend postmoderno, Milano, Bompiani, 1990. 
Vittorini Elio, /ndustria e letteratura, “Tl menabd” 4 (1961), 13-20. 
Volponi Paolo, Memoriale, Milano, Garzanti, 1962. 
, La macchina mondiale, Milano, Garzanti, 1964. 
, Corporale, Torino, Einaudi, 1974. 
, Con testo a fronte, Torino, Einaudi, 1986. 
, Le mosche del capitale, Torino, Einaudi, 1989. 
, Di letteratura e industria, Paolo Volponi e la Pantera, “L’immaginazione” 
72-73 (gen.-feb. 1990), 1-11. 
Vattimo Gianni, La societa trasparente, Milano, Garzanti, 1988. 
Vitzizzai Elisabetta Chicco (a c. di), Scrittori e industria. Dal “Menabo” di Vittorini e 
Calvino alla “letteratura selvaggia” , Torino, Paravia, 1982. 
Zolla Elémire, L’eclisse dell’ intellettuale, Milano, Bompiani, 1959. 























Gregory L. Lucente 


Modernism and Postmodernism in 
Contemporary Italian Fiction and Philosophy 


By now critical thought both in the United States and in Europe — with a few 
major exceptions to be noted shortly — seems more or less in agreement that 
there actually exist certain differences between the literature of modernism and 
that of postmodernism; but even today there remain areas of serious contention 
as regards this topic. We might begin by listing three such areas. First, what 
exactly is the nature of these differences that everyone seems to be talking about? 
Second, even given their existence, are these differences really so significant as 
many of the participants in critical/theoretical discussions claim them to be? 
And, third, how are the differences themselves to be viewed, that is, how is the 
shift from modernism to postmodernism to be evaluated not just in formal or 
empirical or even aesthetic terms but also in ethical — which in this context is 
to say sociopolitical — terms? In the course of this essay, I will attempt to 
address the first of these questions explicitly while merely suggesting, 
implicitly, my feelings about the last two. 

I should start by saying that it seems to me fruitless to deny that there exist 
notable similarities, even if in the fashion of family resemblances, among the 
principal authors of the modernist canon in the West (say, for our present 
purposes, Pirandello, Svevo, and Gadda, although Proust, the younger Joyce, and 
Faulkner would do as well) and among those of postmodernism (Eco, 
Manganelli, and the later Calvino, with the later Joyce, John Barth, and Vladimir 
Nabokov waiting in the wings). I believe, moreover, that there are salient 
differences — and not merely family differences, to belabor a term — between 
the two groups as groups. Although these differences are graded and occasionally 
obscure rather than neatly drawn and crystal clear, they do, I repeat, exist in a 
significant and functional way, and they can be outlined, however schematically, 
by adopting four basic categories to be considered one by one: authority, closure, 
alienation, and, finally, representation. 

Modernist narratives appeal to interpretative authority in various ways, 
primarily through irony and often, as David Hayman has pointed out in his 
reading of Joyce’s early and middle works, through the subtly ironic arrangement 
of narrative segments as distinct from narrative voice. Along with interpretative 
authority, modernist texts — even as they appear open-ended — aim toward 
narrative closure through the establishment of both moral and formal hierarchies, 


Modernism and Postmodernism in Italian Fiction and Philosophy 159 


however provisional such hierarchies may seem at first glance. In terms of 
individual characters, the great theme of modernist literature, which is the 
relationship between the central individual and the society in which he or she 
(but almost always he) lives, is portrayed in the key of distance, of individual 
alienation, existential uncertainty, and Angst. 

Finally, as regards the category of literary representation, for better or worse 
modernist literature believes in it, at least as a category. That is, the concern for 
linguistic refinement so much in evidence throughout modernist programs, the 
concern for prose style, regularly retained a representational format, in which the 
very point of actively refining narrative language was to create a fuller, more 
effective “portrayal” of what language was supposed to re-represent outside 
language, be that the psychological development of the individual in the world of 
matter and sense or the spiritual development of human collectivity. In other 
words, the aesthetic model here remained one in which language, as a transparent 
rather than opaque agency (to borrow terminology begun by Russell and 
Whitehead), led to the world, albeit within the ever-shifting hierarchies of doubt, 
self-reflection, and, now to follow Tarsky, “meta-language.” 

In the literature of postmodernism, each of these categories takes on a 
distinctly different cast. Interpretative authority is broken apart both through 
fragmentation of the narrative segment and through the often discussed effects of 
“citationality” woven within the narrative texture, which is now made up of a 
congeries of prenarrative voices all of which are on display but none of which is 
finally dominant or individually determinant. In the process, the modernist 
hierarchy of ordered narrative levels becomes flattened out into surface rather than 
depth, a surface now negotiable only in confusion and disarray. Narrative closure 
as a goal is thus foregone in favor of the text as process instead of product. 
Rather than alienation, a concept that in modernist literature is linked to a notion 
of the individual subject, the postmodern text emphasizes the delights of process 
as a collective phenomenon of mass culture, as the seemingly communal 
immersion in the jouissance of postmodern appropriation and presentation. The 
potential closure of parody, to put this in other terms, gives over to the apparent 
open-endedness of pastiche. In this way, representation, as a means of 
representing something outside the aesthetic experience, is abandoned as a 
notion, with the result that the self-contained aesthetic experience itself becomes 
the primary category of sociocultural (and I would argue also political) life, a 
sort of mass-cultural “games without end” at play in the world of the 
postmodern. 

At this juncture, it would probably be useful to pause for a moment to 
underscore a few of the problems that the above schema, at least as regards 
postmodernism, inevitably runs into. First, it is hard to tell exactly to what 
extent collective narcissism, in the era of the postmodern, means not only 
communal delight but also solipsism, anti-historicism, and, in effect, political 
withdrawal. Second, it is not at all clear that the apparent collectivity of 


160 Gregory L. Lucente 


postmodern experience is really communal rather than singular, is really an 
experience in which man is truly more “connected” or, on the other hand, is in 
fact one in which man is more and more alone. Finally, it is equally uncertain 
that in the framework of the postmodern it actually makes sense, in anything 
other than an academic sense, to talk about literary narrative (as opposed to such 
other, now dominant narrative forms as television and cinema, most recently via 
video, and the popular narrative of the paperback romance). However germane 
these problems may be, the necessary points de repére of any discussion of 
postmodernism remain in force: the condition of process itself as totality, 
without beginning or end, which is to say, as the experience of cultural 
immersion; the destruction of hierarchies and, along with it, the apparent 
elimination of the culture of the elite; the internationalization of culture in what 
is now a global rather than local or even a national context; and, in conclusion, 
the end of a culture of ordered self-reflection and so the beginning of a rapidly 
shifting, nonlinear culture of pure experience unhindered by rationality and 
doubt, a culture to be lived rather than one to be reflected upon. 

The international debate over both the significance of these differences and 
the questions of their ethical evaluation can be approached by a path that initially 
passes through the works of Terry Eagleton, which are at times carried forth 
solus ad solam, while at times in dialogue with Fredric Jameson.! Again, one of 
the beliefs that both these writers have in common, one shared as well by Gianni 
Vattimo (to be discussed shortly), is that, by way of fundamental disagreement 
with Jiirgen Habermas, such a phenomenon as postmodernism really does exist. 
That is to say, again in contrast to Habermas, that the project of modernism, 
with its emphasis on individual dissolution and alienation as well as its constant 
attempt to reestablish the lost ground of interpretative authority and closure, has 
come to an end in social as well as cultural terms. 

For Eagleton, the distinctive characteristic of postmodern society is the very 
pervasiveness of culture itself, embellished by postmodernism’s delight in 
interminable self-involvement and pastiche as well as by its invitation to 
collective immersion in the re-creative activity of cultural production and 
enjoyment. There is no doubt that Eagleton perceives the potential danger of 
such phenomena, that he understands all too well that the joy of anti-elitist 
collective delight runs perilously close to the narcissistic involution of 
individual hedonism and consumption and that the production of postmodern 
culture, while it may appear somehow autonomous, with an integrity all its 
own, is inextricably tied to the market situation of postmodern technological 
development and to the internationalization of the dominant world economic 
community. But, overall, Eagleton’s handling of the entire question of 
postmodernism, with its new sense of the individual and the community as well 


1 See for example, Eagleton, “Capitalism, Modernism and Postmodemism” (131-47) and “From 
the Polis to the Postmodern” (366-417). 


Modernism and Postmodernism in Italian Fiction and Philosophy 161 


as its new economy and culture, is notably evenhanded. 

Up until now, as Eagleton notes in various contexts, the same cannot be 
said for Jameson. Where Eagleton sees at least the potential for parody — and so 
for an ordered hierarchy of values even if in a self-reflective hall of mirrors — 
Jameson sees only pastiche, only the anti-historical enticements of solipsistic 
self-involvement with no hope of either rational order or effective escape. A part 
of this attitude derives, it seems to me, from the core of almost puritanical 
seriousness that can be found at the center of much of Jameson’s work. But still 
more to the point here is Jameson’s dogged adherence to a version (however 
restructured and updated) of Lukacsian reflection theory, from which perspective 
this new culture is essentially a reflection of a new economic organization. Since 
that new economy remains, like it or not, tied to the dominance of the same 
oppressive bourgeois forces that created and, at least in the final analysis, 
organized the culture of modernism under industrial and monopoly capitalism, 
the culture produced by the current international capitalism of “high tech” must 
be equally suspect: unquestionably a new band, but still the same old tune. 

On the other hand, Gianni Vattimo, in his recent treatment of “The 
Transparent Society,” is extraordinarily enthusiastic about more or less 
everything for which postmodernism strives. In a sense, this enthusiasm is, in 
and of itself, heartening. Nonetheless, Vattimo’s work does create certain 
perplexities. One of these has to do with his discussion, although fleeting, of 
sociocultural life in what he appears to regard as the postmodern society par 
excellence, the United States. Along with a philosophical overview of the sorts 
of issues we have mentioned so far — the sociocultural immersion of the 
individual/collective subject in the non-hierarchical and non-authoritatively 
ordered, i.c., “transparent,” society of postmodernism — Vattimo makes an 
interesting assertion as regards human liberation and the freedom of the word, the 
very access to speech, in contemporary American life: “Negli Stati Uniti degli 
ultimi decenni hanno preso la parola minoranze di ogni genere, si sono 
presentate alla ribalta dell’ opinione pubblica culture e sub-culture di ogni specie” 
(13). True, Vattimo is quick to hedge his bets, to admit that perhaps it should be 
recalled that complete “political emancipation” has not actually gone along with 
this apparent liberation and that ultimate economic and technological power still 
resides in the hands of the great corporations. But all in all, his depiction of 
American life, indeed his conception of la societd trasparente in its totality, is 
nothing short of glowingly optimistic. 

It would be nice to be able to share this optimism, but this is not possible. 
Certainly, the errors that Vattimo makes, at least by implication and suggestion, 
should be pointed out: in the first place, the two major American groups among 
those that Vattimo alludes to, women and blacks, provide difficult examples at 
best, since women are once again assailed by the abortion issue and blacks have 
not had anything like the economic advancements in relation to whites that the 
liberal enthusiasts of the 1960s predicted for them; in the second place, any hint 


162 Gregory L. Lucente 


that sub-cultural groups are now speaking out in liberation and sociocultural 
affirmation seems misguided, even ridiculous, in the light of the highly 
publicized activities of those groups that at present come most quickly to mind, 
the symbol-defined yet also extraordinarily violent gangs engaged in bloody 
internecine warfare in the black and ethnic neighborhoods of Los Angeles, New 
York, Chicago, Detroit and other large American cities. 

But my intent here is not to quarrel with Vattimo over the facts: that would 
be too easy. Instead, the question I propose at this junction does not have to do 
so much with the details of what Vattimo says, but rather with why he would 
want to say it. The answer is probably all too obvious. Vattimo’s conception of 
life in the United States as, indeed, his entire notion of “the transparent society,” 
remains functionally fixed in the totalizing optimism of its conception of the 
world, that is, its representation of the world, only to the degree that it actively 
ignores and/or glosses over the biting material facts of that world. It should 
perhaps not surprise us then that Vattimo’s view of America corresponds 
remarkably well with George Bush’s announced desire for a “kinder, gentler 
America,” a type of society in which contrasts do exist but do not dominate, in 
which difference is itself happily transparent, in which the sociocultural 
experience of each subject is at once authentically individual and authentically 
collective: in short, the society of postmodernism. As I say, all this should not 
surprise us. But it should disturb us. 

Why? For the simple reason that if we, too, are taken in either by Vattimo’s 
re-creative representation of contemporary life or by Bush’s, in a sort of fantasy 
that recalls not the everyday world around us but rather that of Snow White and 
the Seven Dwarfs (and here the reference to Hollywood is not in any way 
gratuitous), we will lose whatever genuine choice we have in terms of actually 
participating in both sociocultural and political life, that is, in the realities of 
our own world. In my opinion, Jameson’s view of postmodernism is too 
negative, and it may well lead to a sort of non-participation by abstention. But 
Vattimo’s view is far too positive, and in the end considerably more dangerous, 
because it may well lead to non-participation by default, by giving up our real 
ability to choose and negate — in short, to cut back the sociopolitical bushes of 
current American life if not to uproot them completely, as they doubtless 
deserve. Although when all is said and done I am not against theory (a la Knapp 
and Michaels or anyone else), I am against theorizing for its own sake, against 
the sort of theorizing that seems to move only in circular fashion as a protective 
justification for its own continuing discourse (in this instance, 4 la Vattimo), 
blissfully apart from the actual particulars of the world of its creation and 
reception; and it seems to me regrettable that so much of the writing on 
postmodernism, carried out from so many different perspectives, turns out to be 
of this stripe. 

Rather than continue along this line toward a reasoned proposal for renewed 
sociopolitical involvement in literary criticism (as I have done in another 


Moderxism and Postmodernism in Italian Fiction and Philosophy 163 


context), I would now like to turn to something completely different, as they 
used to say on “Saturday Night Live” (I should add, as they used to say in deeply 
citational fashion); that is, to the relation between, or, more precisely, the shift 
from, the functions of symbol to those of allegory in works by two 
contemporary Italian novelists, Paolo Volponi and Maria Corti. The novels by 
Volponi are /I lanciatore di giavellotto (1981) and Le mosche del capitale (1989), 
those by Corti are L’ ora di tutti (1962) and II canto delle sirene (1989). 

The primary focus here is specifically on the allegorical (rather than 
symbolic) slant of these novels. In each case, the symbolic unity of the earlier 
work is denied in the later novels in favor of the patent diversity of realms in the 
allegorical artifact with its disjunctive appeal to interpretation that blocks the 
narrative flow.” Each of these last two narratives, it is true, is clearly more 
allegorically distanced and abstract than the earlier symbolic novels; but it is also 
true that this openly analytical allegorical stance is much clearer, at least in a 
sociopolitical sense, in Volponi’s work than it is in Corti’s. Nonetheless, I 
would like to suggest that both these novels — each of which, I should say, I 
consider to be extremely effective narratives — indicate to me that perhaps the 
narrative of postmodernism, in a rejuvenated literal and allegorical vein, is now 
beginning to view its own sociopolitical and cultural situation from a 
perspective framed critically in the distanced perspective of allegory, and, indeed, 
framed allegorically in the dissatisfactions of sociocultural life in our own era, 
which is, like it or not, the era of the postmodern, however tenuous our 
understanding of that term may continue to be. 

In order to flesh out this schematic division between allegory and symbol in 
recent Italian narratives, it might be easiest to consider a series of passages from 
Volponi’s novels, the first two from the end of // lanciatore, and the third from 
the opening page of Le mosche del capitale. The passages in question are the 
following: 


Trovo con la mano la roncola, che lo aspettava, e il suo sangue intero si versd 
insieme con tutta la forza del corpo e anche di quella gioia bestiale che esplodeva nel 
compimento dell’atto; mend la lama sul collo di Lavinia, dalla parte dell’ultimo gesto 
ad onda, sul suo cedimento di peccatrice. La roncola forte doveva tagliare tutto; ogni 
legamento tra quel corpo e le immagini del peccato; ogni nodo interno della carne 
Stretto dalla colpa. 

(II lanciatore 191) 


Cercé anche di mettersi in equilibrio nell’impugnatura di se stesso proprio come un 
giavellotto, per andare a cadere quanto pit in 1a possibile nel buio, dietro a Vitina. . . 


2 The allegorical method of Volponi’s Le mosche is discussed by Luperini in Chapter 14 of his 
L’allegoria del moderno (299-302), and by Bettini in his introduction to Volponi’s Nel silenzio 
campale (7-16). 


164 Gregory L. Lucente 


. Il nastro sciolto tracciava adesso nel buio il lancio di se stesso. La realta del vuoto 
lo convinse del prodigio che infine giungeva a cogliere: senza pit’ dolore né 
nostalgia; con volutta, con bravura. 

(Il lanciatore 192) 


Saraccini guarda dall’alto della collina la grande citta industriale che si estende nella 
pianura, spianata dalla notte oltre se stessa fino a sparire tra i riflessi del fiume e le 
fumate dei campi. . . . Egli @ sereno e gode soddisfatto di quella vista e del generale 
silenzio. “E si, @ proprio un altro grande generale, il silenzio”, confida a se stesso e 
all’universo. . . . La grande citta industriale nempie la notte di febbraio senza luna, tre 
ore prima dell’alba. Dormono tutti o quasi. . . . Gli uomini le famiglie i custodi i 
soldati le guardie gli ufficiali gli studenti dormono, ma dormono anche gli operai: e 
non si sentono nemmeno quelli dei turni di notte, nemmeno quelli dei turni di guardia 
di ronda tra le schiere dei reparti o sotto le volte dei magazzini. Quasi tutti dormono 
sotto l’effetto del Valium, del Tavor e del Roipnol. . . . Ma dormono anche gli 
impianti, i forni, le condutture, dormono i nastri trasportatori delle scale mobili che 
depositano le pozioni chimiche nelle vasche della verniciatura o nei lavelli delle 
tempere. Dorme la stazione ferroviaria, dormono anche le farmacie nottume, le porte 
e le anticamere del pronto soccorso, dormono le banche: gli sportelli le scrivanie i 
cassetti le poste pneumatiche le grandi casse forti i locali blindati. 

(Le mosche 1) 


What seems fairly obvious from the examples of these two novels is that J] 
lanciatore follows a mode of presentation that may be termed symbolic in the 
apparent unity of its narrative presentation of the psychological development of a 
young boy in the period of Fascist Italy. The symbols (especially the phallic 
ones, but others as well) are unified here and elsewhere throughout the novel in 
their portrayal of Damin’s psychic motivation and his eventual psychic trauma. 
This apparent symbolic unity is distinct from what may be regarded grosso modo 
as the patent difference between the levels of allegorical presentation in Le 
mosche del capitale. In Le mosche, as opposed to I lanciatore, what is 
emphasized through the narrative strategies is not the unity of presentation but 
instead this diversity of realms, in which, it is true, people sleep, but in which 
things sleep too: that is, in which the significance of things as allegorical signs 
is constantly underscored by way of an open appeal to interpretation in a 
disjunctive rather than unified mode. That this allegory, as demonstrated in 
Saraccini’s early thoughts, deals repeatedly in the text with the levels of the 
individual and the universe, thereby stressing what is effectively left out, which 
is to say the entire realm of intimate interpersonal interaction that is presented in 
such a complex yet unified manner in // lanciatore, attests to the social and the 
political commitment underlying Volponi’s later novel. But again, the aspect to 
be noted here at least in literary terms is not so much that of sociopolitical 
engagement as opposed to disengagement but rather that of allegorical 
disjunction as opposed to symbolic unity. 





Moderxism and Postmodernism in Italian Fiction and Philosophy 165 


I would like to make a brief return at this point to two of my earlier studies, 
that is to a book on realism and myth in modern narrative and to another on 
literary self-consciousness. The point of this return here is to add a clarification, 
or perhaps better, a pair of clarifications. First, the notion of “myth” in modern 
and contemporary narrative does not stop with or even really aim at classical 
mythology as such, but instead at what might be called mythic perception and 
mythic discourse (see the later Freud of Beyond the Pleasure Principle), that is to 
say, at all the ways, unconscious and just coming into consciousness, that we 
experience the world through intellectual conceptions and emotional drives that 
precede any particular perception and that, therefore, organize our very 
perceptions for us. Volponi’s Le mosche del capitale uses a preexistent set of 
Italian sociopolitical phenomena and sociopolitical aspirations (and, I would add 
in an Italian context, sociopolitical disappointments) in just this way, thus 
providing order to an otherwise seemingly disordered, postmodern text. Maria 
Corti’s most recent novel, // canto delle sirene, uses classical mythology (as 
does, mutatis mutandis, recent work by Luigi Malerba) to these same sorts of 
ends. 

The second clarification, the one that has to do with the notion of self- 
reflection, is simply that I prefer to view self-reflection in the largest terms 
possible, including specifically literary (narrative and linguistic) self- 
consciousness — that is, the text’s self-reflective awareness of its status both as 
a “story” and as a linguistic artifact — but also extending beyond literary matters 
proper to questions of individual and group psychology, politics, and culture 
most broadly conceived. From this point of view, it seems to me that the self- 
conscious importation of sociopolitical categories into Le mosche del capitale 
(and, again, classically mythic ones into Corti’s Canto delle sirene) imports not 
only ethical order into the postmodern text in a Freudian or even Girardian sense 
but also an allegorical point to that order, which is, in both cases — clearly in 
Volponi, far more subtly in Corti — not postmodern delight but postmodern 
critique. To end, then, I would just like to say — but perhaps it has been 
apparent all along — that I do believe that things are indeed changing. But I also 
believe (in order to complicate those very analytical categories with which we 
began) that literature and culture, and I put these novels into evidence, can help 
us both to see the changes in our world and to confront them. 


University of Michigan 


166 Gregory L. Lucente 
Works Cited 


Bettini, Filippo. “Introduzione.” In Paolo Volponi. Nel silenzio campale. 
Corti, Maria. L’ora di tutti. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1962. 
. Il canto delle sirene. Milano: Bompiani, 1980. 

Eagleton, Terry. “Capitalism, Modernism and Postmodernism.” Against the Grain: 
Essays 1975-1985. London: Verso, 1986. 

. “From the Polis to the Postmodern.” The Ideology of the Aesthetic. Oxford: 
Basil Blackwell, 1990. 366-417. 

Hayman, David. Ulysses. The Mechanics of Meaning.1970. Madison: U of 
Wisconsin P, 1982. 

Lucente Gregory L. Beautiful Fables: Self-consciousness in Italian Narrative from 
Manzoni to Calvino. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1986. 

. The Narrative of Realism and Myth: Verga, Lawrence, Faulkner, Pavese. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1981. 

Luperini, Romano. L’allegoria del moderno. Saggi sull’allegorismo come forma 
artistica del moderno e come metodo di conoscenza. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 
1990. 

Vattimo, Gianni. La societa trasparente. Milano: Garzanti, 1989. 

Volponi, Paolo. /I lanciatore di giavellotto. Torino: Einaudi, 1981. 

. Le mosche del capitale. Torino: Einaudi, 1989. 
. Nel silenzio campale. Lecce: Manni, 1990. 








- 





Gian Paolo Biasin 


Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 





I. Preludio 


Allora partimmo, e lui si mise avanti per i sentieri delle vigne. Riconoscevo la terra 
bianca, secca; l’erba schiacciata, scivolosa dei sentieri; e quell’odore rasposo di 
collina e di vigna, che sa gia di vendemmia sotto il sole. C’erano in cielo delle lunghe 
strisce di vento, bave bianche, che parevano Ja colata che si vede di notte nel buio 
dietro le stelle. Io pensavo che domani sarei stato in viale Corsica e mi accorgevo in 
quel momento che anche il mare @ venato con le righe delle correnti, e che da bambino 
guardando le nuvole e la strada delle stelle, senza saperlo avevo gia cominciato 1 miei 
viaggi. 

(164-65) 


Questo brano bellissimo, raccontato da Anguilla, il narratore di La luna e i fal 
di Cesare Pavese, é situato nel testo in una posizione strategica, quando egli e 
V’amico Nuto — I’altro narratore — si accingono a compiere |’ultima tappa del 
loro viaggio, verso la cima della collina di Gaminella, che concludera il 
romanzo. 

Ma questo brano é, soprattutto, straordinariamente emblematico 
dell’ importanza del viaggio in letteratura. Intanto, viaggio e narrazione appaiono 
inscindibili gia nel sintagma “Allora partimmo”, in cui la dimensione temporale 
e quella interpersonale sono espresse rispettivamente dall’avverbio e dal verbo in 
prima persona plurale, in posizione iniziale, per cui il testo si configura come 
uno spazio su cui s’inscrive un itinerario, come un tempo che scandisce una 
durata. Poi, viaggio ed esperienza sono contenuti nel verbo “riconoscevo”, in cui 
non si sa se sottolineare la ripetizione indicata dal prefisso o |’atto espresso 
dall’azione verbale: “ri-conoscevo”: il viaggio come ritorno, il viaggio come 
conoscenza (si veda ancora: “mi accorgevo”, “da bambino . . . senza saperlo”), e 
dunque anche il viaggio come Bildungsroman, come racconto di una formazione 
che diventa racconto di tutia una vita, un’autobiografia — non per nulla prevale 
la narrazione in prima persona. E ancora, l|’elemento picaresco: “avevo gia 
cominciato i miei viaggi”, al plurale, fra gli ostacoli e le prove che insegnano a 
maturare (e “Ripeness is all”, ammonisce l’epigrafe shakespeariana del romanzo). 

L’importanza del viaggio in letteratura, anche escludendo 
programmaticamente le relazioni e i resoconti di viaggi stilati o fatti stilare da 
mercanti, navigatori, missionari, esploratori 0 inviati speciali, é troppo evidente 
perché debba essere sottolineata. Basti pensare all’Ulisse omerico e poi dantesco 


Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 169 


e joyciano, a Lazarillo e a Gulliver, a Robinson e a Ishmael; oppure si ricordino 
i viaggi d’avventura di Stevenson, Verne e Salgari, oppure quelli di Conrad, che 
diventano vere e proprie indagini conoscitive di una coscienza moderna 
dolorosamente impegnata a demistificare la retorica del colonialismo: viaggio 
come ricerca 0 quest, come esplorazione, come scoperta, come ritorno a un 
centro spirituale, come erranza; viaggio che porta ad un arricchimento 
dell’esperienza 0 viceversa che conduce al dubbio o allo “svuotamento” di senso 
(Scatasta 104-5; ma su tutto questo @ assai interessante l’intero primo numero 
della nuova rivista L’Asino d’oro, dedicata alla “fine dei viaggi” com’era 
ipotizzata da Claude Lévi-Strauss all’inizio di Tristes tropiques). Su questo 
sfondo generale, appena accennato ma, credo, sufficientemente suggestivo, vorrei 
ritornare al brano di Pavese come punto di partenza per il mio percorso critico. 


2. Un paese ci vuole 


Il brano di La luna e i fald che ho citato all’inizio stabilisce un nesso 
strettissimo fra la dimensione naturale ed anzi cosmica (le vigne e la vendemmia, 
le strisce di vento, la strada delle stelle, il mare venato con le righe delle correnti) 
e la dimensione storica e personale (il viale Corsica a Genova, e cioé la citta, i 
traffici, l’elemento economico; “io pensavo”, “da bambino”, e cioé il futuro e il 
passato di un singolo individuo). ll viaggio é dunque geografico ed esteriore 
almeno altrettanto quanto esso é spirituale ed interiore, e coinvolge sia una 
visione ciclica della vita che una concezione lineare del destino, esperite entrambe 
non in opposizione ma in sintesi dialettica — quella particolare fusione, nel 
testo pavesiano, fra ragione ed elegia, giudizio storico e nostalgia, cronos e 
kairos. 
Si rilegga I’ inizio del romanzo: 


C’é una ragione perché sono tornato in questo paese, qui e non invece a Canelli, a 
Barbaresco o in Alba. Qui non ci sono nato, é quasi certo; dove son nato non lo so; 
non c’é da queste parti una casa né un pezzo di terra né delle ossa ch’io possa dire 
“Ecco cos’ero prima di nascere”. Non so se vengo dalla collina o dalla valle, dai 
boschi o da una casa di balconi. La ragazza che mi ha lasciato sugli scalini del duomo 
di Alba, magari non veniva neanche dalla campagna, magari era la figlia dei padroni 
di un palazzo, oppure mi ci hanno portato in un cavagno da vendemmia due povere 
donne da Monticello, da Neive o perché no da Cravanzana. Chi pud dire di che carne 
sono fatto? Ho girato abbastanza il mondo da sapere che tutte le carni sono buone e si 
equivalgono, ma é per questo che uno si stanca e cerca di mettere radici, di farsi terra e 
paese, perché la sua carne valga e duri qualcosa di pit! che un comune giro di stagione. 


(9) 


Chiaramente inquadrato fra la “ragione” della prima riga e la “stagione” 


170 Gian Paolo Biasin 


dell’ultima, il ritorno del narratore é un viaggio alla ricerca delle radici e 
dell’identita, un viaggio che, almeno in quanto il narratore é un trovatello e un 
bastardo, acquista una risonanza pil ampia del romanzo di Pavese intitolato La 
luna e i fald per riflettersi sulle origini del romanzo in generale, secondo la 
proposta critica di Marthe Robert in Roman des origines et origines du roman. 
Ma indubbiamente il viaggio di ritorno, cosi efficacemente presentato in questo 
primo paragrafo del testo pavesiano, acquista molto del suo valore dalla 
contrapposizione col “farsi terra e paese”, col principio opposto della stabilita: 
“questo paese”, anche se non é mai nominato nel romanzo, é infatti il centro 
ideale di tutta la vicenda, perché 


Un paese ci vuole, non fosse che per il gusto di andarsene via. Un paese vuol dire non 
essere soli, sapere che nella gente, nelle piante, nella terra c’é qualcosa di tuo che 
anche quando non ci sei resta ad aspettarti. Ma non é facile starci tranquillo. 


(12) 


“Un paese vuol dire non essere soli” é il motivo sottile e persistente che 
scandisce la quest di Anguilla, il suo bisogno, pit forte della irrequietezza e del 
desiderio di viaggiare, di tornare a un’origine e a un’identita problematiche in 
partenza, ma care e necessarie. Percid “questo paese”, il iuogo da cui Anguilla é 
partito per Genova e per |’America, il luogo a cui é tornato dopo tanti anni, é 
anche il luogo da cui riparte alla fine per giungere in cima a Gaminella, la 
collina “sacra” del mito e della storia, il culmine della sua ascensione-ascesi e 
insieme della sua katdbasis, della sua discesa nel mondo dei morti, amati un 
giorno e ritrovati per un momento nel racconto-rivelazione di Nuto. Si noti che 
Nuto é I’altro narratore, quello sedentario che non ha viaggiato come Anguilla 
ma come lui crede nella comunicabilita dell’esperienza — e i due modi di narrare, 
quello rievocativo e monologante di Anguilla e quello diretto e dialogico di 
Nuto, costituiscono la non ultima bellezza del testo pavesiano, strutturandolo 
solidamente in maniera tale che non sarebbe certamente dispiaciuta al Walter 
Benjamin del saggio sul narratore. 

E noto che Pavese non aveva mai messo piede in America, ma anche per 
lui, come per gli autori che invece “avevano fatto davvero esperienza dei luoghi 
descritti nelle loro opere, il momento della scrittura segnd sempre la frattura 
rispetto al mondo della realta e della storia, l’inizio di una deriva in mari 
risolutamente allegorici, ricchi di mitologici approdi” (Barbolini 103). Infatti i 
tre capitoli sull’America — il terzo, l’undicesimo e il ventunesimo — 
costituiscono dei flashback che scandiscono la trama del romanzo, intercalando 
l’altrove di una terra “mitica” ma demistificata (il mito appunto dell’ America, 
non piii significativo per Pavese, come era stato per tanti intellettuali italiani) al 
qui di una terra diversamente mitica ma non mai demistificata (le Langhe), e 
contrapponendo il passato di un’esperienza vissuta (l’esilio e la maturazione) al 
presente di un’esperienza in fieri, il ritorno e la riscoperta della storia collettiva 





Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 171 


(la Resistenza) e personale (il passare del tempo). 

Il viaggio in America di Anguilla é innanzitutto la realizzazione dei suoi 
sogni giovanili, quando sentiva il “fischio del treno che sera e mattina correva 
lungo il Belbo”, facendolo “‘pensare a meraviglie, alle stazioni e alle citta” (12), 
quando sperava che “di 1a dalle colline ci fosse un paese pit bello e pid ricco” 
(44); @ il desiderio di diventare qualcuno, é lo sbocco e lo sfogo della “rabbia di 
non essere nessuno, la smania, pill che di andare, di tornare un bel giorno dopo 
che tutti Jo avessero dato per morto di fame” (138); ed é una fuga, per sottrarsi 
alla polizia fascista che lo cercava per le sue attivita sovversive — “sono 
contento che non pensavi soltanto a far soldi”, gli dice Nuto (139). 

Ma che 1’America di Anguilla risulti demistificata e insieme allegorica é 
indubbio. Mi limito a citare una descrizione emblematica al centro del romanzo, 
nel capitolo undicesimo, quando Anguilla passa una notte nel deserto 
californiano e vede passare un treno: 


Mi piombo addosso sulla strada, illuminandomi dai finestrini l’automobile, i cacti, 
una bestiola spaventata che scappo a saltelli; e filava sbatacchiando, risucchiando 
l’aria, schiaffeggiandomi. L’avevo tanto aspettato, ma quando il buio ricadde e la 
sabbia tornd a scricchiolare, mi dicevo che nemmeno in un deserto questa gente ti 
lasciano in pace. Se domani avessi dovuto scapparmene, nascondermi, per non farmi 
internare, mi sentivo gia addosso la mano del poliziotto come |’urto del treno. Era 
questa l’America.... 
Pit avanti nella notte una grossa cagnara mi sveglid di soprassalto. Sembrava che 
tutta la pianura fosse un campo di battaglia, o un cortile. C’era una luce rossastra, 
scesi fuori intirizzito e scassato; tra le nuvole basse era spuntata una fetta di luna che 
pareva una ferita di coltello e insanguinava la pianura. Rimasi a guardarla un pezzo. 
Mi fece davvero spavento. 

(62-63 } 


Basata su un’eco intertestuale dal John Steinbeck di The Grapes of Wrathe di 
Tortilla Flat, specie nella prima parte, questa descrizione acquista connotazioni 
stilistiche e simboliche tipicamente pavesiane soprattutto nella conclusione. Le 
immagini di violenza reale e metaforica con cui é costruita vogliono sottolineare 
la estraneita di Anguilla in quel paesaggio, e dunque la sua insuperabile diversita, 
lui bastardo, da tutti quegli altri “bastardi” di cui era fatta 1’ America, e dunque 
ancora la presa di coscienza e la decisione del ritorno. II tono assertivo della voce 
narrante, la drammaticita delle connotazioni descrittive non lasciano alcuno 
spazio a una interpretazione diversa, pi favorevole al mito dell’ America. II 
lettore potra solo contrapporvi mentalmente, a romanzo finito, le molte violenze 
che Anguilla riscopre o di cui é testimone sulle Langhe (dai morti repubblichini 
alla morte del Valino e a quella di Santa), e concludere che pur nella sua 
negativita il mito dell’ America é necessario e costitutivo, perché senza di esso il 
narratore non sarebbe quell’uomo affermato economicamente, e soprattutto 
maturo di esperienza, che pud, materialmente e letteralmente, tornare. 


172 Gian Paolo Biasin 


L’altro viaggio che struttura La luna e i fald, quello verso la cima di 
Gaminella, é un viaggio non tanto nella geografia quanto nella storia e nel mito 
— la storia italiana contemporanea e la mitologia greca rivisitata alla luce degli 
studi degli etnografi Walter Otto, Paula Philippson e Karl Kerényi, gia cari al 
Pavese redattore della Einaudi e autore di Dialoghi con Leuco. Narrativamente, 
questo viaggio é ancora pill importante di quello in America, che funziona solo 
da presupposto e da contrasto al ritorno, perché sottende il racconto capillarmente 
con l’immagine di Gaminella sempre presente (“Mentre parlava, io mi vedevo 
Gaminella in faccia, che a quell’altezza sembrava pit grossa ancora, una collina 
come un pianeta”, 72), le reticenze e i silenzi di Nuto (“Nuto non disse niente. 
M’ero gia accorto che della Mora non parlava volentieri”, 51), e la decisione 
sempre posposta di salire sulla cima: “Adesso, senza decidermi, rimuginavo che 
doveva esserci qualcosa lassu, sui pianori, dietro le canne e le ultime cascine 
sperdute. Che cosa poteva esserci?” (48). Sono tutti elementi che contribuiscono 
potentemente, insieme con le vere e proprie epifanie narrative costituite dalle 
apparizioni dei cadaveri dell’epoca della Resistenza e dalle allusioni ai falo di 
festa (San Giovanni), di lavoro (la fecondita dei coltivi) e di tragedia (le Ca Nere, 
la casupola del Valino), alla sospensione della trama e alla preparazione del 
culmine finale, la rivelazione, fatta da Nuto che é salito con Anguilla sulla cima 
di Gaminella, della morte di Santa, giustiziata dai partigiani per i suoi 
tradimenti: 


Gli chiesi se Santa era sepolta li. . . . — No, Santa no,— disse, — non la trovano. 
Una donna come lei non si poteva coprirla di terra e lasciarla cosi. Faceva ancora gola 
a troppi. Ci pensd Baracca. Fece tagliare tanto sarmento nella vigna e la coprimmo 
fin che bastd. Poi ci versammo la benzina e demmo fuoco. A mezzogiorno era tutta 
cenere. L’altr’anno c’era ancora il segno, come il letto di un fald. 

(173) 


E la conclusione, ben triste e amara, della lunga quest di Anguilla: un sapere che 
si spalanca su un’assenza. Gaminella gli si rivela come un luogo di morte, ma 
una morte in qualche modo riscattata da un atto di rispetto e di amore che la 
ritualizza e la consacra: la violenza acquista un qualche significato (non per nulla 
René Girard ha intitolato La violence et le sacré il libro in cui delinea la sua 
concezione dell’origine della civilta basata sul capro espiatorio); e con lo stesso 
gesto narrativo con cui gli affetti e le emozioni personali dei due narratori 
fondono il passato e il presente, ia storia é riassorbita nel mito. Anzi, occorre 
scrivere “la Storia é riassorbita nel Mito”, con le maiuscole, perché Pavese crede 
a tali valori, e soprattutto il secondo per lui acquista un carattere assoluto e 
consolatorio. 

La luna e i falo presenta dunque un intreccio indissolubile fra la narrazione e 
il viaggio, tra il viaggio e l’esperienza, con una ricchezza di significati e di 
riferimenti che fa di questo romanzo uno dei libri fondamentali del Novecento 


Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 173 


italiano, e certamente il libro indispensabile come punto di riferimento della 
modernita in Italia: e anche l’anno di pubblicazione, il 1950, indica un crinale 
cronologico molto rilevato, la meta del secolo, al di 14 del quale si verificheranno 
degli sviluppi e dei mutamenti di tale enorme portata, nella societa e nella 
cultura italiane, che nessuno scrittore della generazione di Pavese avrebbe potuto 
prevedere. 


3. Viaggi e paesaggi degli anni Ottanta 


Uso naturalmente il termine modernita come lo usano Jiirgen Habermas ed Ezio 
Raimondi, e in parte Gianni Vattimo; non scelgo il termine modernismo, 
corrente in area anglosassone, perché troppo legato in Italia a un movimento 
riformista in seno alla chiesa cattolica all’inizio del secolo, e dunque in qualche 
modo non utilizzabile per un contesto culturale pit ampio. Questa precisazione 
terminologica serve forse a sottolineare un paradosso che si aggiunge ai tanti 
altri indicati dalla critica che si € occupata di postmodernismo (si pensi solo ai 
saggi fondamentali di Hassan, Lyotard, Jameson e Hutcheon): in Italia oggi si 
parla di postmodernismo, ma prima d’oggi non si era parlato di modernismo, se 
non nel senso detto. Per questa ragione sarebbe forse pili coerente parlare di 
postmodemita. In ogni caso, il termine postmodernismo é ormai diffusissimo, e 
lo si accetta almeno preliminarmente nella sua versione italiana — 
postmodemita — come ipotesi di lavoro adatta a cercare di individuare e definire i 
cambiamenti avvenuti nella cultura e in particolare nella narrativa negli ultimi 
quarant’anni, nell’ambito tematico del viaggio in letteratura. 

A questo scopo é forse opportuno dare per scontati in linea di massima e 
quindi saltare gli sviluppi che si sono avuti nel romanzo italiano dopo la 
scomparsa di Pavese, e concentrare l’indagine su campioni testuali degli anni 
Ottanta, perché le differenze (e le somiglianze) possono risaltare meglio mettendo 
a confronto gli estremi piuttosto che le sfumature. Non per nulla anche Calvino, 
presentando Una pietra sopra, i saggi che vanno appunto dagli anni Cinquanta 
all’inizio degli anni Ottanta, affermava che |’intellettuale impegnato delle prime 
pagine della raccolta assiste ai cambiamenti che si verificano a poco poco “senza 
svolte brusche”: e vede, in particolare, un mutamento dapprima impercettibile, 
poi netto, che interessa da vicino non solo tutta l’opera di Calvino stesso, com’é 
Ovvio, ma anche il mio saggio, e cioé il “dissolversi della pretesa d’interpretare e 
guidare un processo storico” e l’affermazione sempre piii rilevante del “senso del 
complicato e del molteplice e del relativo e dello sfaccettato che determina 
un’attitudine di perplessita sistematica” (viii). 

Come si configurano dunque i viaggi nella postmodernita? Non ho certo 
intenzione di proporre una tipologia, che si presenterebbe in ogni caso difficile e 
provvisoria data la materia ancora in divenire, ma intanto, tralasciando ogni 


174 Gian Paolo Biasin 


pretesa sistematica, vale forse la pena segnalare qualche campione 
particolarmente significativo. 

Nel 1982 Italo Calvino, la cui opera é tutta articolata in viaggi mutevoli, 
dai picareschi ai fantastici, dagli intergalattici agli intertestuali, pubblica 
“Sapore, sapere”, che poi diventera “Sotto il sole giaguaro”, un racconto in cui 
mette in scena il viaggio turistico di una coppia di italiani in Messico, i quali 
cercano di capire |’alterita della civilta messicana attraverso i sapori della cucina 
piccante ed esotica, che richiama per loro i sacrifici umani degli Aztechi e mette 
in moto una ricerca antropologica straordinariamente profonda e tormentata, al 
cui sbocco c’é il riconoscimento non dell’alterita ma della appartenenza e della 
comunanza. 

Daniele Del Giudice, in Lo stadio di Wimbledon (1983), immagina il 
viaggio di un giovane aspirante scrittore da Trieste a Londra alla ricerca delle 
tracce di un famoso personaggio letterario morto da una quindicina d’anni, e il 
suo viaggio geografico si configura immediatamente come un itinerario interiore 
alla ricerca delle possibilita e delle modalita della scrittura. Anch’esso 
profondamente coinvolto nei problemi della letteratura, ma con esiti assai 
diversi, La casa sul lago della luna di Francesca Duranti (1984) é@ invece il 
romanzo di una ricerca e di una scomparsa: “la casa sul lago della luna” é anche il 
titolo dell’ opera tedesca che il protagonista maschile ha tradotto e dal cui autore é 
affascinato: ma il viaggio in Austria che compie sulle sue tracce si rivelera un 
itinerario, geografico e interiore, verso il proprio annientamento. 

E Gianni Celati, in Verso la foce (1989), presenta quattro diari di viaggi 
nella pianura padana fatti in compagnia del fotografo Luigi Ghirri per illustrare i 
guasti portati anche nel paesaggio dalla mentalita industriale del profitto: un 
viaggio attraverso la solitudine e l’abbandono, descritti con occhio limpido, 
preciso e partecipe: “ogni osservazione intensa del mondo esterno forse ci porta 
pit vicini alla nostra morte; ossia, ci porta ad essere meno separati da noi stessi” 
(10). Questo libro riprende e completa quello precedente di Celati, Quattro 
novelle sulle apparenze del 1987, in cui l’osservazione e il racconto conducono 
alla perplessita (come avveniva anche in Palomar di Calvino, 1983). E la foce 
del Po, quasi introvabile al confine tra acque e terre, diventa la bellissima 
metafora di un’attesa destinata a restare insoddisfatta: ““Noi aspettiamo ma niente 
Ci aspetta, né un’astronave né un destino” (140). 

Per la mia ricerca, che si pud configurare come un viaggio non solo 
“testuale” (come dice il titolo di un’opera di Maria Corti) ma soprattutto 
intertestuale, ho scelto un libro che mi sembra particolarmente significativo, per 
non dire emblematico, perché si pud ricollegare da un lato all’indagine di Celati e 
di Calvino sulle apparenze del mondo (con il relativo interesse per la visibilita, 
per l’esteriorita delle cose, privilegiate rispetto all’ interiorita dell’io), e dall’altro 
all’autoriflessivita letteraria e problematica di Del Giudice e Duranti. 





Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 175 


4. L’India é@ misteriosa per definizione 


Il libro che ho scelto, la cui traduzione francese ha ottenuto il Prix Medicis nel 
1987, & Notturno indiano di Antonio Tabucchi (1984). “Questo libro é un 
viaggio”, scrive l’autore nella nota introduttiva (9), ed é, aggiungo io, una 
versione squisitamente stilizzata ed ironica della quest. Sono due qualita 
essenziali, non solo in sé ma perché rimandano a modi e interessi di cui é 
intessuta l’opera dell’autore: si pensi da un lato ai viaggi di Donna di Porto Pim 
e di Piccoli equivoci senza importanza, dall’altro alla ricerca dell’ identita di J] 
gioco del rovescio e di II filo dell’ orizzonte. 

Ma prima ancora di proseguire, converra fermarsi a leggere due brani di 
Notturno indiano, coilegati tematicamente, che mi sembra indichino con la 
massima chiarezza possibile la distanza che separa il narratore di Tabucchi da 
quello di Pavese, la postmodernita degli anni Ottanta dalla modernita degli anni 
Cinquanta: 


Mi stesi sul fondo della barca e mi misi a guardare il cielo. La notte era proprio 
magnifica. Seguii le costellazioni e pensai alle stelle e all’epoca in cui le studiavamo 
e ai pomeriggi trascorsi al planetario. . . . E poi pensai alle stelle variabili e al libro 
di una cara persona. E poi alle stelle spente, la cui luce ci giunge ancora, e alle stelle a 
neutroni, nello stadio finale dell’evoluzione, e al flebile raggio che emettono. Dissi a 
bassa voce: pulsar. E quasi che fosse stata risvegliata dal mio bisbiglio, come se 
avessi azionato un registratore, mi arrivé la voce nasale e flemmatica del professor 
Stini che diceva: quando la massa di una stella agonizzante é superiore al doppio della 
massa solare, non esiste pit: stato di materia capace di arrestare la concentrazione, e 
questa procede all’infinito; nessuna radiazione esce pit dalla steila, che si trasforma 
cosi in un buco nero. 


(89) 


Come ricorderete dalla mia citazione all’inizio del saggio, il narratore di La luna 
e i fald rievoca il tempo in cui contemplava “la strada delle stelle” e sognava 
quelli che sarebbero diventati 1 suoi viaggi futuri; il narratore di Tabucchi invece 
non sogna, é gia in viaggio, e rievoca piuttosto delle nozioni scientifiche sulla 
tipologia stellare e sulla teoria dei buchi neri — nessun atteggiamento 
sentimentale affiora alla superficie del testo, nemmeno nel ricordo dei "pomeriggi 
trascorsi al planetario” con l’amico scomparso di cui é alla ricerca. Il rimpianto, 
se c’é (“una cara persona”?), deve essere inferito dal lettore, ed @ in ogni caso 
messo in secondo piano dal sottile brivido che da il pensiero dei buchi neri. 
Il secondo brano é ancora pili eloquente: 


E quando io arrivai [a Panaji, un porto fluviale per piccoli battelli], come se stesse 
sbucando dal fiume, proprio dall’orlo della piattaforma, stava sorgendo la luna. Aveva 
un alone giallo intorno ed era piena e sanguigna. Io pensai: luna rossa, e mi venne 


176 Gian Paolo Biasin 


istintivamente di fischiare una vecchia canzone. (90) 


La vecchia canzone é ovviamente “E luna rossa me parla ’e te”, ma il minimo 
che si possa dire @ che, indipendentemente dalla cronologia, all’ Anguilla 
pavesiano che pure guardava la luna che “insanguinava la pianura” non era 
venuto in mente di fischiettare una vecchia canzone popolare, cioé Pavese non 
poteva considerare coerentemente sullo stesso piano stilistico due generi tanto 
diversi quanto la letteratura “alta” e la canzone “bassa” — senza contare che anche 
nel testo di Notturno indiano la citazione subisce uno spiazzamento 
significativo, perché il “te” della canzone presuppone un rapporto amoroso, 
“romantico”, che non é quello del narratore con |’amico, e perché il fischiettarla 
fa scattare un meccanismo memoriale che é funzionale all’avanzamento della 
trama pit ancora che alla connotazione paesaggistica o psicologica. 

Ma procediamo lungo I’ itinerario suggerito da Tabucchi. Notturno indiano é, 
come si @ detto, un libro di viaggio, ma un libro che utilizza parecchie 
convenzioni della letteratura di viaggio e d’avventura in modo ironico e 
autoriflessivo: & tanto un remake quanto un pastiche, tanto una mise en abime 
quanto un metaromanzo. Il viaggio di cui tratta si svolge “all’estero”, 
riprendendo modalita antiche del topos (la ricerca) e mescolandole con altre pit 
nuove: usando la terminologia proposta da Paul Fussell per la letteratura inglese, 
il protagonista non é un esploratore ma un viaggiatore e un turista, nell’India 
“misteriosa per definizione” (47). Si noti che egli @ munito di una guida 
(appunto turistica) intitolata India, a travel survival kit (13 e 55, almeno), una 
guida che nella realta extratestuale si trova davvero in commercio e che nel corso 
del romanzo viene contrapposta al trattato di viaggio scritto nel 1665 dal Padre 
Manoel Godinho della Compagnia di Gest, missionario portoghese in India e a 
Goa: 


La sua narrazione era esatta e circostanziata, priva di cerimoniosita e di retorica. Non 
amava le metafore e le similitudini, quel prete; aveva un occhio strategico, divideva la 
terra in zone favorevoli e sfavorevoli e concepiva 1’occidente cristiano come il centro 
del mondo. 


(74) 


E anche troppo chiaro che il protagonista non condivide questa visione 
eurocentrica, che sembra richiamata apposta per farne risaltare l’estraneita e la 
non pertinenza nell’ambientazione romanzesca contemporanea; il viaggio del 
narratore é non di conquista ma di ricerca, é una specie di pellegrinaggio, “ma 
non nel senso religioso del termine”, egli spiega a un interlocutore: ““Semmai era 
un itinerario privato, come dire?, cercavo solo delle tracce” (41). E un viaggio 
scandito dai lucghi che da Bombay a Madras a Goa, da un sordido albergaccio al 
lussuoso Grand Hotel, dalla stazione ferroviaria al battello fluviale, dall’ospedale 
alla societa teosofica, fanno da sfondo ai suoi incontri umani (la prostituta, il 








Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 177 


dottore, l’indovino, il filosofo, la fotografa francese, i camerieri, e tanti altri), 
ognuno colto con rapidi tocchi sapienti, rispettosi delle singole personalita. 

E questo viaggio é messo costantemente en abime, come per esempio 
quando il protagonista parla al dottore del signor Janata Pinto che “scriveva 
racconti”, uno dei quali “parlava di un uomo che passa la vita a sognare un 
viaggio e quando un giorno finalmente gli capita di poterlo fare, quel giorno si 
accorge di non avere pili voglia di farlo” (29). Oppure si pensi alla descrizione 
dell’albergo Zuari, che é addirittura preceduta da questo avviso ai lettori: 


Alberghi cosi popolano gia il nostro immaginario: li abbiamo gia trovati nei libri di 
Conrad o di Maugham, in qualche film americano tratto dai romanzi di Kipling o di 
Bromfield: ci sembra quasi familiare. 

(80) 


A queste indicazioni, che sono veri e propri suggerimenti di percorsi 
intertestuali, se ne potrebbero aggiungere altre, sparse a piene mani nel libro, da 
Hermann Hesse a Fernando Pessoa (Pessoa, |’autore portoghese dai molteplici 
alter ego, che nella reaita extratestuale Tabucchi ha tradotto e fatto conoscere al 
pubblico italiano), ed altre ancora, non dichiarate ma abbastanza evidenti, da A 
Passage to India di E. M. Forster ai fumetti di Hugo Pratt (magari rivisitati da 
Milo Manara); ma bastino questi riferimenti per illustrare e chiarire in che senso 
Notturno indiano sia un remake e un pastiche (non solo letterari e romanzeschi, 
ma anche cinematografici): parte del piacere della lettura é costituita proprio dal 
riconoscimento del déja vu che il nostro immaginario compie e che I’autore, 
guida turistica di se stesso, stimola e asseconda. Da questo punto di vista, 
Tabucchi é il perfetto rappresentante di una delle due alternative che nel capitolo 
sulla “Visibilita” di Lezioni americane Calvino suggerisce come possibili per la 
sopravvivenza della “letteratura fantastica nel Duemila”: “Riciclare le immagini 
usate in un nuovo contesto che ne cambi il significato”, proprio perché “‘il post- 
modernism puod esser considerato la tendenza a fare un uso ironico 
dell’immaginario dei mass media, oppure a immettere il gusto del meraviglioso 
ereditato dalla tradizione letteraria in meccanismi narrativi che ne accentuino 
l’estraneazione” (95). 

Ecco dunque, in Tabucchi, 1l’autoriflessivita e il metaromanzo, cioé i 
meccanismi narrativi che accentuano I|’estraneazione dei materiali usati. Quasi 
tutto l’ultimo capitolo di Notturno indiano @ metanarrativa pura. Si svolge nello 
scenario della terrazza da pranzo del lussuoso hotel Oberoi di Goa (sera tropicale, 
tavolo d’angolo, aragosta, camerieri premurosi e discreti), e questo scenario viene 
ripreso, e letteralmente rimesso in scena, dalle parole del narratore: 


“Gia”, dissi io, “proprio cosi, per scenario prendo questo. Supponiamo che sia una 
sera come questa, calda e profumata, albergo molto fine, sul mare, grande terrazza con 
tavolini e candele, musica in sordina, camerieri che si aggirano premurosi e discreti, 
cibo scelto, naturalmente, con cucina internazionale. Io sono a un tavolo con una 


178 Gian Paolo Biasin 


’ 


bella donna... .’ 
(105) 


Ma il raddoppiamento non si limita all’ambiente, anzi. A Christine, la fotografa 
francese che gli chiede cosa fa, il protagonista risponde, “Mah, supponiamo che 
stia scrivendo un libro,” per esempio “un romanzo” (oltre a ricercare “cronache 
antiche” — come quella di Padre Godinho — “in vecchi archivi”, 100); e 
all’ulteriore richiesta della ragazza che vuol saper “la sostanza del suo libro”, il 
suo “concetto”, egli risponde: “Per esempio nel libro io sarei uno che si é perso 
in India” (102), e procede a raccontare la storia che abbiamo appena letto fino a 
quel momento rovesciandola completamente, come se lui non fosse “Rouxinol” 
(portoghese per usignolo), il narratore alla ricerca dell’amico scomparso, ma 
fosse quest’ultimo, Xavier che perd ha adottato il nome del ricercatore (“Sono 
diventato un uccello notturno”, 59), con l’accortezza di renderlo in inglese — 
Mr. Nightingale — per non farsi riconoscere a prima vista. Questo 
raddoppiamento che é anche uno sdoppiamento e un rispecchiamento era stato 
preparato sapientemente nel testo: si ricordera che una poesia di Pessoa detta in 
inglese non era stata riconosciuta subito (61); che il narratore aveva connesso il 
proprio soprannome al nuovo nome dell’amico, “come un corto circuito”, solo 
quando aveva fischiettato il motivo della luna rossa (90); che, d’altra parte, 
l’indovino gli aveva detto: “tu sei un altro” (68), una frase allora misteriosa e 
inspiegabile che riceve la sua “spiegazione” solo ora; e che perfino le due donne 
dei fugaci ricordi degli anni perduti, Isabel e Magda, appaiono interscambiabili 
(36). In ogni caso, il risultato ultimo di questo sdoppiamento non pud essere che 
un abbassamento, per non dire una vera e propria perdita, dell’io, che appare 
instabile, fragile, precario come non mai. La frase del narratore “io sarei uno che 
si é perso in India” non é affatto banale né tantomeno misteriosa. 

Ma intanto, in questo gioco di apparenze sempre pit inaffidabili, Christine, 
non per nulla fotografa dell’abiezione (98) che non crede ai “pezzi scelti” (102), 
incalza: 


“E lui perché la sta cercando con tanta insistenza?” 

“Chi lo sa”, dissi io, “é difficile saperlo, questo non lo so neppure io che scrivo. 
Forse cerca un passato, una risposta a qualcosa. Forse vorrebbe afferrare qualcosa che 
un tempo gli sfuggi. In qualche modo sta cercando se stesso. Voglio dire, € come se 
cercasse se stesso, cercando me: nei libri succede spesso cosi, é letteratura.” 


(103) 


Come si vede i meccanismi e i topoi squisitamente letterari della ricerca e del 
doppio sono qui dichiarati a piene lettere, resi argomento esplicito della 
narrazione, tematizzati. Ipotesi come “Forse cerca un passato” o “Forse vorrebbe 
afferrare qualcosa che un tempo gli sfuggi” potrebbero benissimo servire a 
caratterizzare il narratore di La luna e i fald, oltre che quello di Notturno indiano: 
ma appunto, in Pavese, paradigma della modernita, questo tipo di metanarrativita 





Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 179 


disincantata e ironica (“é letteratura”) é impensabile, mentre nel postmoderno 
Tabucchi é essenziale: come scrive Hutcheon, con parole che sembrano dettate 
apposta per il nostro autore, “Parody is a perfect postmodern form, in some 
senses, for it paradoxically both incorporates and challenges that which it 
parodies"(A Poetics 11). 

Non sard cosi perfido da rivelare come va a finire la storia di Notturno 
indiano, per non rovinare il piacere della lettura a quei (miei) lettori che non 
avessero ancora letto il romanzo di Tabucchi; dird solo che la fine echeggia, nel 
dialogo del protagonista con Christine, il racconto gia en abime di Janata Pinto, 
ma é veramente indecidibile, perché non possiamo sapere se le parole del 
narratore si riferiscono alla finzione raccontata (en abime) o a quella scritta che 
stiamo leggendo — la “realta”del romanzo (106-7). 

D’altra parte un “Indice dei luoghi di questo libro” (dal Khajuraho Hotel 
all’ospedale e alla Victoria Station di Bombay, dalla fermata d’autobus sulla 
strada Madras-Mangalore all’ Arcivescovado di Goa, dalla spiaggia di Calangute 
all’Oberoi Hotel di Goa) precede il testo del romanzo e segue la nota dell’autore, 
che beffardamente spiega perché ha ritenuto opportuno fornire questo indice: 


Non so bene se a cio ha contribuito l’illusione che un repertorio topografico, con la 
forza che il reale possiede, potesse dare luce a questo Notturno in cui si cerca 
un’Ombra; oppure |’irragionevole congettura che un qualche amante di percorsi 
incongrui potesse un giorno utilizzarlo come guida. 


(9) 


Anche da quesia pagina risalta chiaramente la caratteristica, in fondo non tanto 
contraddittoria, del postmoderno, che non pud fare a meno della realta (0 della 
storicita, della naturalezza, o del dato acquisito), e infatti la usa (e come!), ma 
mentre la usa la contesta o la problematizza (Hutcheon, A Poetics x-xiii); 
nell’atto di problematizzare, lo scrittore postmoderno mette in questione i grandi 
discorsi 0 racconti legittimanti (come li chiama Lyotard), che invece 
continuavano a sorreggere solidamente la suspension of disbelief della narrativa 
precedente (per esempio, ii mito in Pavese). E da questo atteggiamento che nasce 
il continuo gioco delle apparenze di Tabucchi (0 la perplessita sistematica di 
Calvino). 

Mi sembra opportuno, a questo punto, riassumere 1’analisi intertestuale 
svolta finora in una tavola sinottica che faccia risaltare con efficacia appunto 
visiva le principali differenze riscontrate fra il testo di Pavese e quello di 
Tabucchi, punti estremi del mio percorso critico accomunati dall’uso del topos 
del viaggio come ricerca. 


La luna e i fal6 Notturno indiano 


direzione centripeta direzione centrifuga 
ritorno dell’emigrante turista nell’esotico 


180 Gian Paolo Biasin 


katabasis inconclusivita 
recupero del tempo perdita nello spazio 
Vio e gli altri lio = l’altro 
esigenza di totalita frammentazione 
legittimazione problematizzazione 
mito disincanto 

stile alto, espressivo medio-alto, comunicativo 
simbolismo realismo 

elegia ironia 

archetipi stereotipi 
flashback mise en abime 
autobiografia remake, pastiche 
letterarieta metaromanzo 


Credo che queste contrapposizioni siano molto utili per capire i due testi letterari 
che ho preso in esame, e attraverso di essi 1 cambiamenti che sono intervenuti 
nel testo culturale italiano degli ultimi quarant’anni. Il topos del viaggio in 
letteratura, divenuto, nel mio saggio, un viaggio nel postmoderno, si é 
confermato strumento di indagine e di conoscenza veramente prezioso e 
rivelatore. 


5. “Fine” 


Al termine dei percorsi testuali seguiti finora, e sulla base dei dati raccolti, credo 
davvero che il viaggio continuera a fornire i suoi materiali alla letteratura (e 
all’immaginario collettivo): muteranno non solo i mezzi tecnici e la facilita del 
trasferimento, ma soprattutto l’atteggiamento dei viaggiatori e degli scrittori, la 
loro esperienza, la loro consapevolezza — e con esse, i modi delle relative 
scritture. Lungo itinerari antichi, gia noti ma nuovamente ripercorsi in viaggi 
sempre diversi, la geografia romanzesca cambiera ancora. 
E i tropici, saranno sempre pil tristi? 


University of California at Berkeley 


Opere citate 


Barbolini Roberto, “I percorsi dell’Avventura”, La Chimera e il Terrore. Saggi sul 
gotico, l'avventura e l'enigma, Milano, Jaca Book, 1984, 101-45. 

Benjamin Walter, “Il narratore. Considerazioni sull’opera di Nicola Leskov”, Angelus 
Novus, trad. italiana, Torino, Einaudi, 1962. 











Frammenti di geografia romanzesca 181 


Calvino Italo, Una pietra sopra. Saggi di letteratura e societa, Torino, Einaudi, 1980. 
, Palomar, Torino, Einaudi, 1983. 
, Sotto il sole giaguaro, Milano, Garzanti, 1986. 

, Lezioni americane. Sei proposte per il prossimo millennio, Milano, 
Garzanti, 1988. 

Celati Gianni, Quattro novelle sulle apparenze, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1987. 

, Verso la foce, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1989. 

Corti Maria, // viaggio testuale, Torino, Einaudi, 1978. 

Del Giudice Daniele, Lo stadio di Wimbledon, Torino, Einaudi, 1983. 

Duranti Francesca, La casa nel lago della luna, Milano, Rizzoli, 1984. 

Forster E. M., A Passage to India, London, Amold, 1924. 

Fussell Paul, Abroad. British Literary Traveling between the Wars, Oxford, Oxford 
UP, 1980. 

Girard René, La Violence et le sacré, Parigi, Grasset, 1972. 

Habermas Jiirgen, “Modernity — An Incomplete Project”, in Hal Foster (a c. di), The 
Anti-Aesthetic: Essays on Postmodern Culture, Port Townsend, Wash., Bay 
Press, 1983, 3-15. 

Hassan Ihab, Paracriticisms. Seven Speculations of the Times, Urbana, U of Illinois 
PilO75! 

, [The Dismemberment of Orpheus: Toward a Postmodern Literature, Madison, 
U of Wisconsin Press, 1982. 

Hutcheon Linda, A Poetics of Postmodernism. History, Theory, Fiction, New York, 
Routledge, 1988. 

, [he Politics of Postmodernism, New York, Routledge, 1989. 

India, a Travel Survival Kit, South Yarra, 2a edizione, Victoria (Australia) e Berkeley, 
Lonely Planet, 1984. 

Jameson Fredric, “Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism”, New 
Left Review 146 (July-August 1984), 53-92. 

Lévi-Strauss Claude, Tristes tropiques, Parigi, Plon, 1955. 

Lyotard Jean-Francois, La Condition postmoderne, Parigi, Minuit, 1979. 

Pavese Cesare, La luna e i fald, 14a edizione, Torino, Einaudi, 1964. 

, Dialoghi con Leuco, Torino, Einaudi, 1974. 

Raimondi Ezio, Le poetiche della modernita in Italia, Milano, Garzanti,1990. 

Robert Marthe, Roman des origines et origines du roman, Parigi, Grasset,1972. 

Scatasta Gino, “Bruce Chatwin: viaggio, frammento d’inferno”, L’Asino d’Oro 1.1 
(maggio 1990), 100-13. 

Steinbeck John, Tortilla Flat, New York, Covici Friede, 1935. 

, The Grapes of Wrath, New York, Viking, 1939. 

Tabucchi Antonio, Donna di Porto Pim, Palermo, Sellerio, 1983. 

, Notturno indiano, Palermo, Sellerio, 1984. 

, Piccoli equivoci senza importanza, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1985. 

, Il filo dell’ orizzonte, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1986. 

, Il gioco del rovescio, nuova ed. accresciuta, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1988. 

Vattimo Gianni, La fine della modernita, Milano, Garzanti, 1985. 























Joseph Francese 


The Postmodern Discourses 
of Doctorow's Billy Bathgate 
and Tabucchi's I dialoghi mancati 


Linda Hutcheon designates narrative that is at once metafictional and historical as 
“postmodern.” She believes that through the use of intertextual references it 
instates then subverts “the notion of the work of art as a closed, self-sufficient 
autonomous object deriving its unity from the formal interrelations of its parts” 
(“Historiographic Metafiction” 6). For her, postmodern fiction attempts to 
combat Modernism’s hermetic, elitist isolationism. In her view, “postmodern 
historiographic metafiction . . . ask[s] us to question how we represent — how 
we construct — our view of reality and of our selves” (The Politics of 
Postmodernism 42), thus subverting Modernism’s unifying world view. 
Unfortunately, Hutcheon conflates the terms historiography and history (social 
practice and/or reproduction) thus weakening what is otherwise a very convincing 
argument and precluding the anticipation of what might be the repercussions of 
the return of literature to the world. The postmodernist acknowledgement of an 
objectified past overcomes Modernism’s pure formalism, but does not break the 
cycle of literary self-reflexivity. Rather, it broadens the concept to include a 
wider variety of texts. The incorporation of events belonging to a collective past 
within a literary text, if seen as an end unto itself, only serves to undermine 
further the separation of literature and historiography in distinct genres.! This 
return to the world, then, could more accurately be described as the intersection 
of the world of real events with that of literature, an encounter that results in a 
renewed form of historical narrative (a genre that further obfuscates the separation 
of literature from historiography). If we accept as the aim of postmodern 
narrative the return of the text to the world, we must concentrate our attention on 
the manner in which the postmodern text attempts to interact and contrast with 
what is outside it. I submit that postmodern narrative may accomplish this 
return to the world through an awareness within the text that all textualizations 
are subjective representations of social practice transcoded into the realm of the 
real. 

The purpose of this essay is to discuss the manner in which the 


1 Although generic distinctions lend themselves to editorial marketing strategies, they are, of 
course, constructs. As Costanzo has argued, both poetry and prose are communicative 
informational acts, grounded in “everyday discourse”; poetry, prose, and “everyday discourse” 
are distinguished only by the degree of semantic intensity inherent to the message. As Jameson 
has indicated (“Magical Narratives” 135), the various genres serve as a “contract between the 
writer and reader,” as an artificial norm whose function is to be transgressed. 


The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 183 


postmodernity of two contemporary writers, E. L. Doctorow and Antonio 
Tabucchi, their resistance to cultural codes, and their consideration of social 
practice within a temporal framework takes shape in their most recent work. 
Although their styles are quite different, I believe that what comes forth 
exemplifies two extremely fertile examples of postmodern narrative. Doctorow, 
in Billy Bathgate, and Tabucchi, in J dialoghi mancati,? have adopted divergent 
narrative strategies that seem to share the same end. Although they operate 
within distinct literary traditions and direct their work to different audiences, it is 
still possible to identify an important element common to the work of both 
writers. Each attempts to denaturalize objectified codes of signification through 
diverse forms of multiple perspectivism that share a renewed dialectical 
relationship with history. While the Modern, according to Harvey, “took on 
multiple perspectivism and relativism as its epistemology for revealing what it 
still took to be the true nature of a unified, though complex, underlying reality” 
(30), the work of Tabucchi and Doctorow cast doubt on that underlying reality. 
For Bové, postmodern prose attempts to “reveal the ‘root’ of our representations 
in inescapable yet hidden linguistic processes” (6). This, as we shall see, is 
particularly true of Doctorow’s Billy Bathgate. Tabucchi re-inserts a 
“discontinuous” self into a dialectical process of becoming with real, or 
conditioning forces, in an attempt to diminish the alienation of the subject. 
While Joyce’s Stephen Dedalus defines history as “a nightmare from which [he 
is] trying to awake” (28), for the postmoderns Doctorow and Tabucchi an 
understanding of the manner in which the past determines the present is 
fundamental for the contextualization of the individual within society. Tabucchi 
and Doctorow’s postmodern discourses look beyond the self-reflexivity of 
Modernism to comprehend the necessary reciprocity that, according to Gramsci, 
links literature and society. For these authors (as Jameson has argued in a 
different context) history is “not so much a text, as a text-to-be-(re)constructed” 
(“Imaginary and Symbolic in Lacan” 388). Time and space are not construed as 
autonomous, objective data, but are represented as part of a social process by 
which all human knowledge is objectified. The world to which the postmodern 
narratives of Tabucchi and Doctorow return, as they remove themselves from the 
cycle of literary self-reflexivity we have mentioned, determines and is determined 
by individual agents within a social context. 

Doctorow’s use of the gangster story, a theme commonly associated with 
pulp novels, contributes to Billy Bathgate’s best-seller popularity and serves to 
further obfuscate the “boundary” separating “serious” literature, pleasing to the 
academy, from works designed for mass consumption.? Doctorow first inscribes 


2 A volume containing two one-act plays, // signor Pirandello é desiderato al telefono and II 
tempo Stringe. 

3 Tt also comes as a partial response to what was underlined by Habermas and Said regarding the 
need to overcome the excessively specialized division of knowledge , which is itself a reflection 


184 Joseph Francese 


into his text a commonly known lore that reiterates the “official” values of the 
national community. However, he installs those values in order to demystify 
them by revealing the modes of their perpetuation. As Dieter Schulz writes of 
Doctorow, “each of his novels distills the ideological essence of a specific period 
in U.S. history and confronts ideology with historical evidence, American 
principles with American reality” (16). For Jameson, the “Nostalgia Mode” that 
inheres in postmodern narrative, particularly Doctorow’s, satisfies a “deep 
longing” to re-experience art forms popular earlier in this century. As Jameson 
states, Doctorow’s “narratives do not represent our historical past so much as 
they represent our ideas or cultural stereotypes about that past” ("Postmodernism 
and Consumer Society” 18-20). Doctorow’s popularity is at least partially due to 
his nostalgic evocation of common values and simpler times, when Good was 
easily distinguished from Evil. The re-reading of an American social history does 
in fact inform Doctorow’s dialogue with the past. In my view, however, the 
“deep longing” underscored by Jameson is symptomatic of the condition of 
postmodermity shared by Doctorow and his public, a symptom he adroitly 
exploits for other ends. The evocation of the past in Doctorow’s prose contrasts 
official textbook accounts against a lived past that is very much alive in a 
mnemonic dimension, one that operates at a much more profound level of 
signification.* Doctorow utilizes the popular register to subvert ruling-class 
values; in Gramscian terms, he inscribes national-popular values to act then as a 
counter-hegemonical force. 

Therefore, when reading Doctorow we must consider the manner in which 
the historiographic past has been inscribed into the text and see how his prose 
differs from that of the traditional historical novel. Ian Watt has underscored the 
importance of the representation of the individual in the nineteenth-century 
novel, particularly the manner in which a specific identity is developed within 
the confines of a given socio-historical context. Following Watt, Avrom 
Fleishman argues that the dialectic of personal and collective experiences in the 
traditional historical form acts “not only upon the characters in the novel but on 
the author and readers outside it” (15), affording writers an “historical” 
perspective by which to view their lives. In his view, historical fiction 
underscores the universality of the contemplation of the past, “the constants of 


of the division of labor, imposed in the name of capitalist “efficiency.” At the same time, it is 
indicative of a characteristic of the postmodern noted by Jameson, that is, “the effacement in it 
of some key boundaries or separations, most notably the erosion of the older distinction 
between high culture and so called mass or popular culture” (“Postmodemism and Consumer 
Society” 14). 

4 Doctorow’s persona is well aware of the dichotomy between lived experience and the official 
recording of it: “I find some consolation, however, in having told here the truth about 
everything of my life with Dutch Schultz, although in some respects my account differs from 
what you will read if you look up the old newspaper files. I have told the truth of what I have told 
in the words and the truth of what I have not told which resides in the words” (481). 





The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 185 


human experience in history” (14). Doctorow’s prose, on the other hand, 
supplants any organizing consciousness that might underpin traditional historical 
narrative.> In Billy Bathgate the persona’s relationship with Drew Preston and 
Dutch Schultz, exponents of legal and illegal capitalism, enables him to 
overcome his egocentrism and understand the relativity of his experience.® 
Through his initiation into the discourse of Drew and Schultz, Billy not 
only comes to see himself as a minor element of a very broad context, but more 
importantly, he is able to understand that his own identity does not have the 
monolithic quality he had previously held to be true. Billy Bathgate’s story is 
retold fifty years after the fact. The past is relived in the text, permitting the 
author to split his narrator’s personality into two distinct entities: the narrator is 
a university-educated corporate executive who recounts his adventures as a 
teenage hoodlum. This division is further widened by the persona’s use of an 
alias in describing himself as a youth. Thus, the narrator has taken two 
conscious steps that allow him to speak of himself as other.’ Robert S. 
Dombroski has argued that the distinguishing feature of postmodern narrative is 
the reduced significance of the subject as the organizing center of consciousness 
(“Antonio Pizzuto and the Subject of Narrative”); in Billy Bathgate the splitting 
of the persona’s personality effectively negates any narrative center that may 
have been constituted. Ultimately, reality is relativized through the narrator’s 
reconstruction of the past: Billy realizes that there is no true portrayal of the 
past, only diverse representations of real events. Human action is the only 
reality: one, however, which cannot be preserved in any true form. Its 
textualization necessitates interpretations which are unavoidably falsifications. In 
Billy Bathgate any pretense of a unifying perspective is undermined by the 
tension between conflicting interpretations of external reality. The dialogue with 
the reader (and with himself) allows the subject of Doctorow’s narration to go 
beyond the limits of his own subjectivity. Because he objectifies his past 
through dialogic externalization, he is more capable of understanding the self in 
the present. Memory is a means by which an individual may dispassionately 
evaluate past behavior by contrasting it with and re-inserting it into the 


5 See the “choral” recollection of World’s Fair and The Book of Daniel wherein the persona’s 

narration altemates between past and present, first and third person. 

6 As Billy says, “perhaps it wasn’t necessary to get anything straight, not even monickers, 
maybe that was my trouble that I needed to know things definitely and expected them not to 
change. I myself was changing, look where I was, look what I was doing. . . . None of these 
things made sense except as I was contingent to a situation. And when the situation changed, 
would I change with it? Yes, the answer was yes. And that gave me the idea that maybe all 
identification is temporary because you went through a life of changing situations. I found this a 
very satisfying idea to consider. I decided it was my licence-plate theory of identification. As a 
theory it would apply to everyone, mad or sane, not just me” (205-6). 

7 One example should suffice; to quote Billy: “I am proud of this boy I was, thinking through 
his cold dread” (344). 


186 Joseph Francese 


parameters of a social context. As Billy points out, his own recollection of 
Schultz differed markedly from the newspaper accounts (481). It is precisely this 
decentering of the subject, along with the denaturalization of the values that 
underpin neocapitalist order, that define Doctorow’s narrative as postmodem. 

Billy is not only able to decenter his perceptions of reality, but, through his 
association with Drew Preston and Dutch Shultz, he is also afforded the 
opportunity to observe Capital’s ability to create at will representations of real 
events. Because of her wealth, Drew is able to impose her subjective perspective 
on others. “She seemed incapable of distinguishing pretence from reality,” said 
Billy, “or perhaps she was rich enough to think everything she pretended was 
true” (201). On the other hand, Shultz consciously exploits his ability to impose 
his will on reality, or, to use a euphemism, shape public opinion. His immense 
financial resources allow him to transform the “value of feeling into numbers” 
(386). Moreover, he is able to alter the public’s perception of him: his 
philanthropy transmutes him from robber baron into captain of industry. Billy is 
able to absorb the means and the purpose of these mystifications and, when 
presented with the opportunity, shows himself to be his master’s pupil. 
Doctorow superimposes the different worlds of Billy, Drew and Schultz, not to 
demonstrate the manner in which “an incommunicative ‘otherness’ prevails in a 
space of coexistence” (Harvey 113-14), but rather to underscore the facility with 
which Billy masters discourses that are not his own. The “de-ghettoization” of 
Billy is contingent on this and dramatically emphasizes the disempowerment of 
those who lack his capability. Shultz’s downfall (in contrast to Billy’s 
integration into the capitalist mainstream) is the result of his inability to learn 
the discourse of the dominant class. The insertion of a third, subaltern, discourse 
(Billy’s) into what is commonly perceived as a binary opposition — “legality” 
(Drew) and its antithesis (Schultz) — effectively subverts the dominant moral 
order. 

As Hayden White has indicated, historiographic narrative must first posit a 
moral order or social center to describe then transgressions of that law. Of vital 
interest in Billy Bathgate is the situation of the law between the opposing poles 
of mainstream society and its antithesis. The specular relationship between the 
two relativizes and undermines the values of the social center. Billy comes to 
understand that the transgressive nature of the underworld accurately reflects that 
of the establishment. This newfound awareness of the universality of 
transgression sanctions his own construction of a metaphysics that will in turn 
be used to justify his oppression of others. A recurring theme of Billy Bathgate, 
almost a leit-motif, is the depiction of organized crime as a form of capitalist 
endeavor. In Billy’s words, “once you accepted the first pure inverted premise” 
(110), it was a business venture that obeyed the same internal logic of all 
corporate enterprise.® The specific nature of the “inverted premise” is never 


8 As the novel draws to a close, Billy states: “something like a revelation had come to me 





The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 187 


explored; the only discernible distinction seems to be between those who must 
pay taxes and those who may not. Schultz’s criminal associates are described as 
businessmen, from their desire to “streamline” their “business” to their apparel. 
Shultz himself explains the dynamic necessities of his “enterprise” (212-13) to 
his eager charge, Billy, in commercial terminology: it must constantly expand, 
absorbing smaller conglomerations, in order to maintain a competitive posture 
(262).? Schultz’s incessant battles to maintain and augment his market share, 
however, are exasperated by his inability to appropriate the discourse of the 
dominant class, to enter the “economic mainstream” (186) and to become a legal, 
taxpaying entity. To extend further the metaphor, the assassination of Schultz 
and his gang may be considered a truly hostile takeover, congruent with the ways 
of neoimperialist foreign policy and with the practice (if not the means) of Wall 
Street. When Billy finds Schultz’s cache and makes the rapid metamorphosis 
from criminal to entrepreneur, the affinity of the two forms of capitalism is 
further underscored. Thus, Billy comes to embody a reality that cuts Doctorow’s 
mass readership to the quick. The son of Jewish and Irish immigrants, he is the 
apotheosis of the American “melting pot.” The founder and chief executive 
officer of a successful corporate enterprise, Billy Bathgate conceals his past as a 
gangster and assassin and comes to personify the American dream. 

Concomitant with the progression of the narrative is Billy’s search for a 
“metaphysical” explanation for his own existence. He praises God for affording 
him the opportunity to join a gang of murderous pirates (85), presumably 
because this association enables him to attain what he calls “final justice” (469). 
Although the government’s indictment of Schultz undermines his faith (383), 
Billy’s liberation from Schultz’s domination and the financial security he 
subsequently secures rejuvenate and transcend that faith. As the novel draws to a 
Close, Billy quickly divests himself of all moral responsibility for the murders 
and various crimes to which he was a willing accessory. He understands that 
only God and His earthly vicar, cash, are eternal and that he, Billy, has found 
both: 


I had been sharing the defeat of the gang in a morbid way, I had been dwelling on their 
deaths. But nothing was over, it was all still going on, the money was deathless, the 


through my school lessons: I was living in even greater circles of gangsterdom than I had 
dreamed, latitudes and longitudes of gangsterdom. The truth of this was to be bome out in a few 
years when the Second World War began” (479). 

9 Within Schultz’s organization, Otto Berman is the main proponent of this point of view and 
Billy’s teacher. Berman, to use Billy’s words, foresaw a “new realm” “where numbers ruled, 
where they became the language and rewrote the book” (443). All of Berman’s efforts were 
directed at “streamlining” and modemizing the “business” (212-13). It was Berman who truly 
understood the “immutable” nature of money (Sohn-Rethel) and it was he who spent his dying 
breath giving Billy the combination of Schultz’s safe and access to the accumulation of cash to 
which both Berman and Schultz had dedicated their lives. 


188 Joseph Francese 
money was eternal and the love of it was infinite. (476) 


Thus, “final justice” is attained. No longer one of the economically and socially 
oppressed, Billy realizes the transition to legitimate enterprise envisioned by 
Schultz. Although the transfiguration from street tough to businessman takes 
several years, the narrator condenses and obfuscates the process of development 
that takes place within him as his social status improves. Although Billy’s 
perspective changes dramatically as a result of his empowerment, the reader, who 
is dependent on Billy’s subjective narration, perceives only continuity in the 
persona’s views. Therefore, Billy’s newfound religious faith seems completely 
disinterested. For a fleeting moment, however, we are allowed to see how firmly 
Billy’s spirituality is rooted in immediate, earthly interests. We also see the 
extremely contingent nature of what the narrator, at the close of the novel, 
presents as an eternal, natural, social hierarchy. Billy coopts a form of false 
consciousness designed to justify his privileged status, conceal its origins and 
evade responsibility for his actions. 

Ephemeral, lived reality is juxtaposed to the various means of self- 
perpetuation and reification inherent in the textualization of social reproduction. 
Schultz’s actions and speech survive only in Billy’s memory and transcriptions. 
However, the official newspaper versions of Schultz’s demise preserve for 
posterity an extremely different view of what happened. At the same time, 
Schultz’s mortal existence is transcended and perpetuated by his accumulation of 
capital. Having found a substantial part of Schultz’s fortune, Billy is able to 
participate vicariously in the money’s “unhistorical time” (Sohn-Rethel).!° He 
then directs his efforts toward finding a means of securing his own immortality, 
which he accomplishes, in his opinion, when his legitimate heir, a baby he sired 
with Drew, is delivered to his door. 


And now I have just one more thing to tell, and I have saved it for last because it is the 
fount of all my memory, the event that doesn’t exonerate the boy I was but may delay 
for a moment reading him out of heaven. I drop to my knees in reverence to think of 
it, I thank God for the life He has given me and the joy of my consciousness, I praise 
Him and give all reverent thanks for my life of crime and the terror of my existence. 
(481-82) 


Billy’s “final justice,” is a euphemism for the coveted perpetuity of a system of 
economic exploitation. In the new scheme of things the origins of the system 
are concealed and presented as natural. What most concerns Billy, however, is 
that he is among those who may vicariously participate in the a-temporal nature 
of coinage through an heir. 

Just as Doctorow’s prose undermines the mystifications that underpin 


10 Sohn-Rethel discusses the “immutable” and “universal” qualities ascribed to coinage and its 
fundamental role in the “exchange abstraction” and in the creation of false consciousness. 








The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 189 


capitalist order, Tabucchi, to use Hutcheon’s phrasing, explores the manner in 
which narrative “structures how we see ourselves and how we construct our 
notion of self, in the present and in the past” (The Politics of Postmodernism 7). 
Thus, in Tabucchi’s work the means by which we interpret reality are 
interrogated. It is precisely his questioning of individual and collective realities 
that distinguishes Tabucchi from the majority of contemporary Italian writers. 

The field of Italian letters has been described by the literary historian 
Giuliano Manacorda as a polyvalent and indecipherable “terra di nessuno” (360) 
in which the majority of writers’ attempt to “mantenere i contatti con una realta 
sempre pili complessa, mutevole e drammatica” (359). As social reality becomes 
increasingly difficult to assess and define, Italy’s novelists see themselves less in 
agreement as to the means, and in many cases as to the necessity, of rendering 
that reality on the page.!! According to Luca Clerici and Bruno Falcetto, a 
precise vision of the social role of Italian authors is precluded by a “progettualita 
di corto respiro . . . legata a sua volta a una serie di visioni del mondo 
tendenzialmente passive, rassegnate e pessimiste,” brought about by the 
diminished importance of the writer in the decades that have followed the eclipse 
of Neorealist engagement. The disorientation described by Manacorda constitutes, 
in the opinion of these two critics, “un lento e inesorabile processo di rimozione 
del problema” that has left Italy’s writers “quasi disarmat[i] di fronte a una realta 
sulla quale risulta sempre pit difficile riuscire a far presa” (59). This pervasive 
sense of doubt has provoked in some that “crisis of reason” of which JoAnn 
Cannon has recently written (35). 

Antonio Tabucchi’s literary debut explored an Italian social identity, 
particularly of his own generation, those who were born during the Second 
World War and who came of age in a time characterized less by Neorealist 
engagement than by the Neo-avantgarde, by the social upheavals of 1968 and by 
terrorism. He consequently never expressed faith in any totalizing master 
narrative nor in the Reason that was to explain and justify it. To use his own 
phrasing, “il mondo é mondo / per essere dubitato” (J dialoghi mancati 30). 

In addition to the refusal of all metanarratives, Tabucchi’s most recent work 
evinces several aspects of postmodern narrative in English recently underlined by 
Hutcheon in her analysis of historical metafiction. Tabucchi, much like his 
Anglophone counterparts, inscribes and subverts in the text literary conventions 
through the frequent use of more and less explicit references to canonical 
Modernism, particularly to the literary production of the Portuguese poet 
Fernando Pessoa (Tabucchi is a scholar of Portuguese literature), Italo Svevo, 
Luigi Pirandello and Eugenio Montale.!2 Tabucchi’s latest novels, Notturno 


11 Lucia Re writes of “a lack of consensus and a persistent unwillingness on the part of a 
considerate sector of the Italian literary scene to become once again involved in public debates 
on the ‘meaning’ and function of literature” (111). 

12 While the intertextual references in II signor Pirandello é desiderato al telefono are more 


190 Joseph Francese 


indiano and I! filo dell’ orizzonte and the recently published short story “Tanti 
saluti,” are excellent examples of a prose that is deliberately indeterminate, 
purposely suspends meaning and precludes any definitive interpretation. 
Moreover, in Tabucchi’s work, to quote Hutcheon, “subjectivity is represented as 
something in process, never as fixed and never as autonomous, outside history” 
(The Politics of Postmodernism 39). 

In an essay of 1978, Tabucchi stated that the most notable characteristic of 
twentieth-century literature has been the “fracture” between art and life within the 
Modernist antihero. As he said, “il fare poesia e il riflettere sul fare poesia é 
l’unica ‘azione’ concessa all’uomo nullita, ¢ una vita mentale che sostituisce la 
vita reale, @ la letteratura che sostituisce la realta fattuale” (“Alvaro de Campos e 
Zeno Cosini: due coscienze parallele” 159). In his view, Pirandello does not go 
beyond this negative vision; Svevo and Pessoa, on the other hand, “riscattano 
tale visione” per “trovare ragione e plausibilita in una vita che é pure 
irragionevole e implausibile” ("Alvaro de Campos e Zeno Cosini” 152). Zeno 
Cosini and Alvaro de Campos, Svevo and Pessoa’s most important personae, 
transform their “incapacitaé di vivere” into a source of strength through “la 
volonta di superamento della condizione negativa della vita nonostante la ferma 
convinzione dell’artista che essa @ veramente negativa” (Alvaro de Campos e 
Zeno Cosini” 151). Svevo and Pessoa suggest to Tabucchi that a more 
productive relationship between self and other is possible. While Pessoa 
objectifies subjective experience in order to propose his own torment as a 
“norma dell’ universale” (Stegagno Picchio 383), Svevo utilizes his “incapacita di 
vivere” as a means of actively interrogating, or analyzing human experience. In J 
dialoghi mancati, Tabucchi contrasts Pirandello’s introjection of real experience 
(a tendency that precludes Pirandello’s participation and solidarity with the 
human dramas depicted in his writings) with the subjectivity evidenced in the 
work of Svevo and Pessoa. For this reason the encounter of Pirandello and 
Pessoa, desired by the persona of I signor Pirandello é desiderato al telefono, can 





explicit, in JI tempo stringe they are more numerous and implicate all of Tabucchi’s preferred 
authors. In JI tempo stringe the cigarette (51) evokes both Svevo’s La coscienza di Zeno and 
Campos’ “Tabacaria” (see Tabucchi, “Le sigarette di Femando Pessoa” and Pessoa, Obras 
completas 2:250-57). The poetic “occasions” mentioned on p. 71 are reminiscent of Montale’s 
Le occasioni (Tabucchi mentions this volume of poetry in another essay, “Alvaro de Campos” 
161). The “canto orfico” recited by Enrico (72) vaguely evokes Campos’s “Aniversdrio” 
(Pessoa, Obras completas 2:282-84), while the Venus of Milo mentioned on p. 39 (II signor 
Pirandello) recalls Campos’s “O binémio de Newton é ta0 belo como a Vénus de Milo” (Pessoa, 
Obras Completas 2:109). Perhaps the most significant of these intertextual references occurs on 
p. 30: “Vagheremo come un pulviscolo / nel vuoto di questo universo,/ neppure coscienza 
infima / di cid che non siamo stati,” lines that play on Montale’s Ossi di seppia (“Codesto solo 
oggi possiamo dirti,/ cid che non siamo, cid che non vogliamo” 27). However, while the refusal 
of the present by Montale’s persona is symptomatic of an overwhelming sense of negativity, 
Tabucchi’s actor-poet recognizes the ideterminacy of the present and the relativity of the past. 


The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 191 


not, and does not, take place.!4 

Il signor Pirandello é desiderato al telefono comes to a close with the actor- 
poet wishing Pirandello “‘addio” (44). He states that they will certainly see each 
other “dopo” (44), after or beyond something, death presumably (the text is 
deliberately unclear) and rephrases the actor-poet’s words to “ci vedremo.” This is 
a Clear reference to Tabucchi’s own “Storia di una storia che non c’é,” a chapter 
in a previous work, / volatili del Beato Angelico. The persona of that tale is an 
author who destroyed the only manuscript of his novel, Oltre la fine. The 
annihilation of the text, we are told, may have been “un tributo, un omaggio, un 
sacrificio 0 una penitenza” (61). The writer, in any case, is left with his memory 
of that text and with the phantasmal voices of potential literary creations that 
inhabit his nights of insomnia. Tabucchi’s “oltre” (his “beyond”) aims at 
intersubjective dialogue and must be contrasted to that of Pirandello. The 
Sicilian playwright, according to the Italian critic Giacomo De Benedetti, 
designated with that same term “quel non-Io che é neli’Io, quell’altro da sé che @ 
nel sé” (464). While Pirandello’s “beyond” serves to further isolate the individual 
from the external, Tabucchi’s persona purposely acts as a “mirror of its own 
structuration,” interacting “with its environment to change its own reflection” 
(Ragland-Sullivan 7). 

Pessoa gives explicit voice to the repressed forces perceived operating in his 
unconscious through the creation of at least five other poets, or heteronyms, 
complete with their own biographies, somatic features, aesthetic preferences, 
world views, poetic styles and personalities. In Pessoa, however, specifically in 
the writings of the heteronym Alvaro de Campos, a mental life and its literary 
component become the overriding reality, precluding any cognizant interaction 
with the Other. In Campos the empirical observation of the dichotomy between 
things that are “real inside” the self and those that are “real outside” (““Tabacaria,” 
Obras completas 2:250-57) are experienced as an “illness” that manifests itself as 
insomnia which in turn inspires his poetry, to be written the following day. 
According to Campos, humanity relaxes and forgets life’s joys and sorrows: 
“Even while awake, Humanity forgets.” Campos’s persona, however, “does not 
sleep” and his poetry lingers, unattended, a cry “in the serene darkness” 
(“Ins6nia,” Obras completas 2:274). In Tabucchi’s recuperation of Pessoa this 
interior dialogue becomes recognition of the Other’s voices within one’s own 
unconscious that permits the exploration of repressed discourse. The self, having 


13 Tabucchi does, however, create an imaginary meeting in which Pessoa and Svevo “si 
prendono a braccetto per conversare come vecchi amici” (“Alvaro de Campos e Zeno Cosini” 
152). Tabucchi also brings Pessoa and Pirandello together in a fictitious telephone 
conversation (“Uma conversa no Outono de 1935”). In this short story Pessoa claims that he, 
unlike Pirandello, is an author in search of his characters (who, as we have seen, are aspects of 
himself). Pirandello admits that he too seeks out his characters but ignores that while Pessoa’s 
search is part of the creative process that precedes literary creation, his own occurs after the fact, 
during the process of theoretical justification of the literary product. 


192 Joseph Francese 


purposely cast aside its monolithic facade, acknowledges the presence of the alien 
discourse within and is free to analyze its interactions with the Other. 

Svevo’s Zeno also writes to placate the manifestations of his own repressed 
anxieties. Like Campos, Zeno is used by his creator as a means of organizing 
consciousness. Zeno’s monologue, and its implicit attribution of a therapeutic 
value to written communication (Zeno purportedly records his thoughts for a 
psychoanalyst), is directed outside the self; his soliloquy engages an (albeit 
mute) interlocutor in dialogue, in implicit anticipation of a rejoinder. For 
Tabucchi the soliloquy is, in fact, a deliberate attempt at breaching the isolation 
of the subject as it projects itself into the future in its anticipation of a rejoinder, 
or more specifically a reader.'4 

The retelling of the persona’s past is reminiscent of the “exterior 
monologue” utilized by Svevo in his Confessions of Zeno, in which, as De 
Benedetti has shown (558-616), a narrative style markedly different from Joycean 
stream of consciousness is utilized. In La coscienza di Zeno the reader is not a 
passive observer, but instead a mute interlocutor, a dialogic counterpart. Svevo 
held that the “stream of consciousness” evidenced in Joyce’s prose adhered to the 
naturalistic tenet of objectivity: it accurately portrayed the mechanisms of an 
individual psyche while circumventing authorial mediation. As De Benedetti has 
indicated, however, although Svevo repeatedly claimed to have modelled his own 
prose on that of his friend, in Svevo’s discussion of Joyce’s work the term 
“stream of consciousness” (“il monologo interiore”), is very carefully avoided; 
Svevo preferred to refer simply to joycean “monologue.” And, as De Benedetti is 
quick to point out, monologue is always communication with another, dialogue. 
While joycean stream of consciousness is characterized by the “paradosso della 
parola che appartiene al vocabolario della lingua comune e storica, ma insieme 
sgorga da un lessico privato e anteriore, ignaro di ogni vocabolario” (600), 
Svevo’s novel respects traditional syntax and describes actions that involve 
subjects external to the subject of narration. 

Tabucchi’s metafiction is not an end unto itself, but serves as a point of 
departure, the basis for the development of a perspective that must conflict with 
that realized by those Modernists chosen by Tabucchi as dialectic counterparts. 
Tabucchi’s actor-poet cites the definitions of love proposed by two of Pessoa’s 


14 For Bakhtin, “in the actual life of speech , every concrete act of understanding is active: it 
assimilates the word to be understood into its own conceptual system filled with specific objects 
and emotional expressions, and is indissolubly merged with the response, with a motivated 
agreement or disagreement. To some extent, primacy belongs to the response, as the activating 
principle: it creates the ground for understanding, it prepares the ground for an active and 
engaged understanding. Understanding comes to fmition only in the response. Understanding 
and response are dialectically merged and mutually condition each other; one is impossible 
without the other” (282). “The word in living conversation is directly, blatantly, oriented 
toward a future answer-word: it provokes an answer, anticipates it and structures itself in the 
answer's direction” (280). 





The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 193 


heteronyms in order to underscore the difference between their egocentric vision 
and his own. Love, we are told in the futurist poet Campos’s essay “Notes for a 
Non-Aristotelian Aesthetic” (Pdginas de doutrina estetica), is an act of pure 
volition. For another of Pessoa’s heteronyms, Ricardo Reis, it is a form of 
narcissistic self-identification whereby the self is mapped onto another. As Reis 
says, no one loves anyone else; we only love those aspects of ourselves that we 
discern, or believe we discern, in another (Obras completas 4:145). Tabucchi’s 
actor-poet evokes these manifestations of Pessoan “‘autopsychography” (wherein 
the poet “feigns sentiments that are truly his own”)!> to his audience to then 
contrast them to his own view: it is necessary to engage in dialogue the 
discourse of the Other in order to end the individual’s isolation through an 
enhanced understanding of the dialectical nature of intersubjectivity. This 
indeterminacy of the self is underscored in JI signor Pirandello é desiderato al 
telefono. The persona may be an actor representing the poet Pessoa, or he may 
be Pessoa playing an actor playing Pessoa (15). One thing is certain: the subject 
must seek out his/her identity in an-other. In Tabucchi’s work the subject is 
relativized; purposely not a source of meaning, s/he is consciously an element of 
a web or network of subjects. A symbiotic relationship between the self and the 
Other is recognized; the atomized individual may be re-integrated into a social 
context. The reference to and the refusal of Pirandellian relativism, that is the 
“humoristic” or ironic distancing of the dispassionate observer who is at once 
“one, no one and one hundred thousand,” is all too clear: 


Nessuno, eppure troppi. 

E anche questo é stato il mio modo 

di vivere la mia vita: 

vivere tante vite, le pit’ vite possibili, 

perché la pit nobile aspirazione 

é di non essere noi stessi, 

o meglio, 

é esserlo essendo altri, 

vivere in modo plurale, 

com’é plurale l’universo. (32) 


The indeterminacy of the self is juxtaposed to that of the text. In J] tempo 
stringe the nun tells Enrico that his brother’s death occurred momenis before 
Enrico’s arrival and was caused by third degree burns. Enrico, who claims to 
have a perfect memory, ignores this information and invents his own narrative. 
In Enrico’s fiction, the brother is killed in an automobile accident. This version, 


15 See “Autopsicografia” (Obras completas 1:237) by Pessoa’s ortonym, that is, the heteronym 
who signed his work Fernando Pessoa: “O poeta é um fingidor./ Finge tao completamente / Que 
chega a fingir que é dor / A dor que deveras sente” (“The poet is a simulator./ He simulates so well 
/ that he comes to simulate pain / the pain he truly feels”). 


194 Joseph Francese 


because it is real for him, is of greater value to Enrico than the nun’s recounting 
of what happened. Having created a narrative congruent with his own perception 
of his brother’s life, Enrico then creates a second narrative involving a concealed 
text. This second narrative, because of the physical absence of the text, corrects 
or rewrites the past. The pretext for Enrico’s journey to visit his brother is 
supposedly a letter penned by their late mother or forged by one of the two 
brothers. What should be the climax of the action, the revelation of the culprit 
who caused their father’s financial downfall, is deliberately indeterminate. We 
never learn who wrote the letter. 

This “dialogue with the dead,” as Tabucchi has called the reading of texts,!® 
has been an important theme in his recent literary production. In JI tempo stringe 
Enrico’s soliloquy over his brother’s cadaver underscores the extent to which the 
past not only determines, but is a dynamic part of the present. Tabucchi seems 
to have arrived at the conclusion that the active participation of the individual in 
the present not only determines the future, but rewrites the past. The writing of 
the present (and its preservation in texts) necessitates a re-interpretation of the 
past that identifies the determining factors operating in history. Of extreme 
importance, therefore, is the manner in which we live our “Frattempo,” as he 
calls the human lifespan. Death is a biological fact, not the source of trauma it 
was for Modernism’s exasperated individualists. Tabucchi reiterates here what he 
said in previous works (“Gli archivi di Macao” and “Ultimo archivio,” in J 
volatili): death may come in the form of a collective suicide (i.e., the nuclear 
holocaust that may be brought about by the “uomini savi” [/ dialoghi mancati 
30] who refuse doubt as a basis of understanding),!” or it may be inflicted on us 
surreptitiously by the various cancer-causing pollutants we have placed in the 
environment. In any case, our own individual and collective demise are matters 
to be addressed. These and other sources of trauma should not be repressed with a 
Montalian “nobile stoicismo” (I volatili del Beato Angelico 10), something that 
in his view is a facade for a passive and nostalgic refusal to participate in the 
shaping of history. Rather, we must search for our own “poetry,” as he calls it, a 
simple, but practicable modus vivendi. 

The act of writing, then, is for Tabucchi a bridge between individuals and 
between past, present and future. Much like the Father of Doctorow’s Ragtime, 
writing, for Tabucchi is “a system . . . of language and conceptualization [that] 
proposed that human beings, by the act of making witness, warranted times and 
places for their existence other than the time and place they were living through” 


16 Tabucchi “interviewed” Pessoa some fifty years after the latter’s demise (“Ce qu’a vu 
Pessoa”). 

17 Tp the final chapter of his “confessions,” Zeno predicts an extreme manifestation of psychic 
illness that would induce an individual to place a bomb at the earth’s core. The ensuing “great 
explosion” would restore health to the human race through the reduction of the planet to its 
primordial, nebulous form. 





The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 195 


(78). But it is also much more than that: writing is not a means for deepening 
the abyss between life and art, but for strengthening social bonds; it is not a 
means of cathartic self-understanding but a catalyst for infra-historical social 
dialectic, directed toward the future diminution of alienation. For this reason, 
perhaps, Tabucchi’s actor-poet invites his public to participate in his insomnia. 
The insomnia that afflicts Tabucchi’s actor-poet makes possible a discourse that 
anticipates a rejoinder, actively seeking out an interlocutor in the immediate and 
distant future, while redefining the past. As a group of solitary individuals (each 
with his/her own trauma), the actor-poet and his public may keep each other 
company while sharing an insomnia that is the manifestation of repressed 
anxiety provoked by the awareness of one’s own mortality. Just as the rereading 
of texts gives the past a renewed, modified value, the act of writing, more than 
communication in the present, is a means of extending oneself dialogically into 
the future. 

If literature, as Gramsci has written, is a hegemonical force within the 
superstructure that influences the shape of the economic base, it may 
nevertheless behave also in a counter-hegemonical manner, as Dombroski 
proposes, to widen “the concept of literature to include works containing 
alternative values” (Antonio Gramsci 104). The postmodern denaturalization of 
social and communicative codes may be contained within the hermetic realm of 
literariness or made to absolve a reformist function within purely aesthetic and 
ideological spheres. More productive would be the re-integration of literature into 
a global process of disalienation wherein the constructs that condition both the 
unconscious and class society are unveiled.!® The historical perspective inherent 
in the work of Tabucchi and Doctorow allows these writers to utilize the sense 
of indeterminacy that characterizes the present, rather than be overcome by it. 
Tabucchi deconstructs the myth of the extra-historical self (i.e., the concept of 
individual identity prior to and independent of social hominization [Rossi-Landi]) 
to demonstrate that the subject is truly the synthesis not only of existing 
relations but the history of those relations, while Doctorow inscribes the reified 
and historically conditioned values of neocapitalism in the text in order to 
subvert them. Doctorow and Tabucchi provide us with two diverse postmodern 
Narrative strategies that nonetheless share an acute awareness of the individual’s 
and the text’s historicity. While Tabucchi’s work remains closely linked to the 
academy, Doctorow’s prose appeals to a mass audience. Both however propose as 
an alternative to literary Modernism a re-evaluation of the subject. In Doctorow’s 


18 Rossi-Landi uses the term “disalienation” to say that “la costruzione di coscienze nuove e di 
una nuova mentalita, che si manifesti a tutti i livelli della praxis e in ogni anfratto della vita 
quotidiana, equivale all’istituzione di pratiche sociali radicalmente nuove. Si tratta di correggere 
l’intera riproduzione sociale, fra l’altro sostituendovi tutti i principali sistemi segnici con altri 
pid adeguati, che reggano la produzione di uomini nuovi, cioé operanti in rapporti sociali 

nuovi” (273-74). 


196 Joseph Francese 


work the subject is the battleground for social issues. For Tabucchi it is a self- 
displacing entity within a field of ideological contestation involving self and 
Other and all temporal dimensions. Thus, the literary text is seen as an active 
part of a negative dialectic that re-interprets the past and its relationship to the 
present as they become the future. Both Tabucchi and Doctorow, however, 
indicate possible means of overcoming the isolated subjectivity characteristic of 
Modernism through their demystifications of the reifications that inform 
consciousness. Therefore, their work may be considered as part of a process of 
disalienation whose goal is the lessening of the divergence of consciousness and 
social practice. 

Michigan State University 


Works Cited 
Bakhtin, M. M. The Dialogic Imagination. Trans. Carol Emerson and Michael 
Holquist. Ed. Michael Holquist. 1981. Austin: U of Texas P,1988. 
Bové, Paul A. “The Ineluctability of Difference.” Postmodernism and Politics. Ed. 
Jonathan Arac. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1986. 3-25. 
Cannon, JoAnn. Postmodern Italian Fiction: The Crisis of Reason in Calvino, Eco, 
Sciascia, Malerba. Rutherford: Fairleigh Dickinson UP,1989. 
Clerici, Luca and Falcetto, Bruno. “‘La realta sfuggente: narrazioni degli anni ottanta.” 
Linea d’ombra (maggio 1986): 57-64. 
Costanzo, Mario. “Pretesti jakobsoniani.” Discorso quotidiano, prosa, poesia. 
Roma: Bulzoni, 1985. 11-41. 
De Benedetti, Giacomo. Jl romanzo del Novecento. 1971. Milano:Feltrinelli, 1976. 
Doctorow, E. L. Billy Bathgate. 1989. New York: Harper and Row, 1990. 
. Ragtime. 1974. New York: Ballantine Books, 1989. 
. The Book of Daniel. 1971. New York: Ballantine Books, 1987. 
. World’s Fair. New York: Random House, 1985. 
Dombroski, Robert. Antonio Gramsci. Boston: Twayne Publishers, 1989. 
. “Antonio Pizzuto and the Subject of Narrative.” /talica 67 (1990): 1-16. 
Fleishman, Avrom. The English Historical Novel. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins 
UP, 1971. 
Gramsci, Antonio. Quaderni del carcere. Ed. Valentino Gerratana. Torino:Einaudi, 
1975. 
Harvey, David. The Condition of Postmodernity. 1989. Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 
1990. 
Habermas, Jiirgen. “Modernity — An Incomplete Project.” The Anti-Aesthetic:Essays 
on Postmodern Culture. Ed. Hal Foster. Seattle: Bay Press, 1983. 3-15. 
Hutcheon, Linda. “Historiographic Metafiction: Parody and the Intertextuality of 
Discourse.” Intertextuality and Contemporary American Fiction. Ed. Patrick 
O’Donnell and Robert Con Davis. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1989. 3- 
32. 
. The Politics of Postmodernism. London: Routledge, 1989. 
Jameson, Frederic. “Imaginary and Symbolic in Lacan: Marxism, Psychoanalytic 
Criticism, and the Problem of the Subject.” Literature and Psychoanalysis. Ed. 
Shoshana Felman. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP,1982. 338-95. 








The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow and Tabucchi 197 


. “Magical Narratives, Romance as Genre.” New Literary History 7 (1975): 

135-63. 

. “Postmodernism and Consumer Society.” Postmodernism and Its 
Discontents. Ed. E. A. Kaplan. London: Verso, 1988. 13-29. 

Joyce, James. Ulysses. 1922. New York: Vintage Books, 1986. 

Manacorda, Giuliano. Letteratura italiana d' oggi (1965-1985). Roma: Editori Riuniti, 
1987. 

Montale, Eugenio. L’opera in versi. Ed. Rosanna Bettarini and Gianfranco Contini. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1980. 

Pessoa, Fernando. Obras completas de Fernando Pessoa. 1952. 11 vols. 2nd ed. 
Lisboa: Atica. 1964-67. 

. “Apontamentos para uma éstetica nao-aristotelica.” Pdginas de doutrina 
estética. Ed. Jorge de Sena. 2nd ed. Lisboa: Inquérito, 1946. 115-30. 

Ragland-Sullivan, Ellie. Jacques Lacan and the Philosophy of Psychoanalysis. 
Urbana: U of Illinois P, 1987. 

Re, Lucia. “The Debate on the Meaning of Literature in Italy Today.” Quaderni 
d’italianistica 7 (1986): 96-111. 

Rossi-Landi, Ferruccio. /deologia. 1978. Milano: Mondadori, 1982. 

Said, Edward. “Opponents, Audiences, Constituencies and Community.” The Anti- 
Aesthetic: Essays on Postmodern Culture. Ed. Hal Foster. Seattle: Bay Press, 
1983. 135-59. 

Schulz, Dieter. “E. L. Doctorow’s America: An Introduction to His Fiction.” E. L. 
Doctorow: A Democracy of Perception. Ed. Herwig Freidl and Dieter Schulz. 
Essen: Die Blaue Eule, 1988. 9-18. 

Sohn-Rethel, Alfred. “Historical Materialist Theory of Knowledge. “Marxism Today” 
(1965): 114-22. 

Stegagno Picchio, Luciana. “Pessoa, uno e quattro.” Strumenti critici (1967): 377- 
401. 

Svevo, Italo. Le confessioni di Zeno. 1923. Milano: Dall’Oglio, 1976. 

Tabucchi, Antonio. “Alvaro de Campos e Zeno Cosini: due coscienze parallele.” Studi 
filologici e letterari dell'Istituto di filologia romanza e ispanistica 
dell’ Universita di Genova. Genova: Bozzi, 1978. 151-62. 

. “Ce qu’a vu Pessoa. Interview en différé.” Europe: Revue littéraire mensuelle 

(Juin-Juillet 1988): 57-60. 

. I dialoghi mancati. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1988. 

. Il filo dell’ orizzonte. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1986. 

. I volatili del Beato Angelico. Palermo: Sellerio, 1987. 

. “Le sigarette di Fernando Pessoa.” II poeta e la finzione. Scritti su Fernando 
Pessoa. Ed. A. Tabucchi. Genova: Tilgher, 1983. 119-34. 

. Notturno indiano. Palermo: Sellerio, 1985. 
. “Tanti saluti.” In Tullio Pericoli. Tanti saluti. Milano: Archinto, 1988. 5- 
15. 

. “Uma conversa no outuno de 1935.” In José Jodo Brito. Uma conversa no 
outuno de 1935. Lisboa: Casa de Moeda, 1985. 

Watt, Ian. The Rise of the Novel. Berkeley: U of California P,1957. 

White, Hayden. The Content and the Form. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1987. 




















JoAnn Cannon 


Italian Postmodernism 
and Lezioni americane 


The contributors to this issue of Annali d’italianistica have been asked to 
consider the extent to which the concept of postmodernism can be effective in 
literary analysis. Instead of debating the merits or demerits of postmodernism as 
a critical tool in the analysis of texts, I believe it is more useful simply to 
recognize that postmodern is a label which has now “stuck” to a set of writers 
and texts. Like all such labels, it is valuable only in defining a certain climate, 
in delimiting a field whose boundaries remain indistinct. As John Barth has 
suggested in his classic essay on postmodernist fiction, “The Literature of 
Replenishment,” the individual text ought to take primacy over definitions of an 
extratextual postmodernist program. “Actual artists, actual texts, are seldom 
more than more or less modernist, postmodernist . . . what have you” (69). In 
the same essay Barth cites Calvino’s Cosmicomics and Garcia Marquez’s One 
Hundred Years of Solitude as examples of works that approach an ideal, 
postmodernist program. The induction of Calvino into the “literary club of 
postmodernism” now seems secure (Gitlin 35). 

To speak about Italian postmodernism I would like to follow Barth’s 
suggestion and to focus on a specific text rather than an extra-textual “program.” 
The work I would like to highlight in my discussion is Calvino’s Lezioni 
americane. Sei proposte per il prossimo millennio, a volume which includes five 
of the six Charles Eliot Norton lectures which Calvino was to have delivered at 
Harvard in 1985-86. At first glance this book seems to be the antithesis of 
postmodernist. The author devotes less attention to identifying his postmodern 
contemporaries than he does to creating his precursors through “strong” readings 
of such writers as Lucretius, Dante, Shakespeare, and Leopardi. Despite its 
apparent lack of concern with contemporary fiction, however, Lezioni americane 
is in a sense paradigmatic of Italian postmodernism. 

I have argued elsewhere that there are a number of Italian writers who may 
be considered postmodern in that their works dramatize to varying degrees the 


1 A recent New York Times Book Review article by Todd Gitlin lists Calvino in its “examples” 
of postmodermism, along with Philip Johnson’s AT & T building, Disneyland, Monty Python, 
Max Headroom, and Donald Barthelme. 


Italian Postmodernism and Lezioni americane 199 


crisis of rational attempts at making sense of the world.” In the works of such 
writers as Malerba, Eco, Sciascia, and Calvino the crisis of reason is symbolized 
by indeterminate, aleatory structures — the labyrinth, the dream, irrational 
numbers, the open-ended detective novel. Yet what is perhaps most interesting 
about postmodern Italian writers, and what distinguishes them from other 
postmodernists, is that, despite the sense of crisis, there is still a strong 
cognitive thrust animating their fiction. It is in this sense that Calvino’s 
posthumous work, Lezioni americane, is characteristic of Italian postmodernism. 

The notion of writing as an instrument of knowledge is central to Calvino’s 
Norton lectures. “La letteratura vive solo se si pone degli obiettivi smisurati, 
anche al di 1a d’ogni possibilita di realizzazione. Solo se poeti e scrittori si 
proporranno imprese che nessun altro osa immaginare la letteratura continuera ad 
avere una funzione. Da quando la scienza diffida delle spiegazioni generali e delle 
soluzioni che non siano settoriali e specialistiche, la grande sfida per la 
letteratura é il saper tessere insieme i diversi saperi e i diversi codici in una 
visione plurima, sfaccettata del mondo” (Lezioni americane 110). As in previous 
essays of the late sixties, Calvino takes great pains in his lectures to define 
literature’s position as a unique mode of comprehension. Literature is portrayed 
as a heuristic tool which may offer an alternative to philosophy and science. At 
the same time the author makes it clear in each of the Norton lectures that much 
of his inspiration as a writer is derived from science and philosophy of science. 
Calvino not only traces the reaction of contemporary literature to the science and 
philosophy of our time but also chronicles the relationship between literature 
and science over the centuries. 

In my reading of Calvino’s Lezioni americane I would like to follow the 
author’s own suggestion that the true work of criticism be read as a fictional 
text, a tissue of poetic metaphors. Woven within the text of Lezioni americane 
are the same images — the crystal, the labyrinth, the city, the chessboard — 
which animate Calvino’s fictions. Each of the lectures takes its title from one of 
the literary values that Calvino would bequeath to the next millennium: 
leggerezza, rapidita, esattezza, visibilita, molteplicita. (The final lecture, on 
consistency,was unwritten at the time of Calvino’s death.) The book thus has a 
highly “structured” appearance. But this tidy compartmentalization, which 
reveals the author’s self-proclaimed taste for geometrical composition, is 
something of an optical illusion. Each of the chapter titles is an umbrella term 
which only partially covers the many strands and digressions which Calvino 
follows in the corresponding lecture. Several of the highlighted literary values — 
multiplicity, exactitude — cannot be fully “contained” within the lectures 
devoted to them. Writers don’t always fall neatly into their assigned 
compartments. Midway through the third lecture Calvino complains: “Questa 


2 In this paragraph I borrow from my book Postmodern Italian Fiction: The Crisis of Reason in 
Calvino, Eco, Sciascia, Malerba. 


200 JoAnn Cannon 


conferenza non si lascia guidare nella direzione che m’ero proposto” (67). We 
might borrow from Calvino’s essay on Northrop Frye to characterize the 
complex text. “Si direbbe che in lui si svolga una lotta tra la sua passione per le 
ripartizioni rigide e la sua sensibilita di critico che avverte continuamente 
dimensioni che sfuggono a ogni schema” (Calvino, Una pietra 200). 

In his first lecture Calvino upholds the value of lightness over weight. The 
meaning of weight quickly becomes clear as it comes to be associated with the 
“committed” literature of the immediate postwar years. “Leggerezza” implicitly 
addresses a familiar theme in Calvino criticism — the argument that Calvino’s 
work is torn between two irreconcillalable poles of sociopolitical involvement 
(neorealism) on the one hand and escapism (fantastic) on the other.? Calvino’s 
description of his working method over the years as a continuous subtraction of 
weight in some ways gives credibility to the “polarized” perception of his 
fiction. Did not Calvino turn away from the “weight” of postwar Italy as 
depicted in such works as Ultimo viene il corvo, La giornata. di uno scrutatore 
and La speculazione edilizia? In Lezioni americane, however, Calvino takes great 
pains to convince us that his is a necessary, participatory detachment, that the 
“lightness” for which he strives does not connote an escape from the world. This 
participatory detachment is precisely the stance adopted by Cosimo in I] barone 
rampante and later defended in II castello dei destini incrociati. In the penultimate 
chapter of JI castello, “Anch’io cerco di dire la mia,” the narrator reads the tarot 
cards of the King of Swords and the Hermit as telling the story of the poet who 
unites chivalric deeds and the conquest of wisdom. Calvino frequently reenacts 
this conflation of the man of action and the man of contemplation, the King of 
Swords and the Hermit. In the Norton lectures it is the myth of Perseus that 
becomes a founding myth for the writer. Calvino describes the poet’s 
relationship to the world as analogous to the relationship between Medusa and 
Perseus, “che non rivolge il suo sguardo sul volto della Gorgone ma solo sulla 
sua immagine riflessa nello scudo di bronzo” (6). “Nei momenti in cui il regno 
dell’umano mi sembra condannato alla pesantezza, penso che dovrei volare come 
Perseo in un altro spazio. Non sto parlando di fughe nel sogno o nell’ irrazionale. 
Voglio dire che devo cambiare il mio approccio, devo guardare il mondo con 
un’altra ottica, un’altra logica, altri metodi di conoscenza e di verifica. Le 
immagini di leggerezza che io cerco non devono lasciarsi dissolvere come sogni 
dalla realta del presente e del futuro . . ."(9). The key word here is “conoscenza.” 
The writer must not be content to chronicle the chivalric deeds of Charlemagne’s 
knights (or of the heroes of the Resistance movement); he must seek new modes 
of comprehension, new keys to understanding the world. 

One of the new perspectives from which Calvino increasingly views the 
world is that of contemporary science: “cerco nella scienza alimento per le mie 


3 See De Lauretis for a brief summary of this notion of polarity in the critical reception of 
Calvino. 








Italian Postmodernism and Lezioni americane 201 


visioni in cui ogni pesantezza viene dissolta” (8). Calvino claims as his 
precursors a host of writers, from Lucretius to Cyrano de Bergerac to Leopardi, 
who have nourished their fantasy on the scientific knowledge of their times. To 
explain the idea of lightness as a way of looking at the world based on 
philosophy and science, Calvino cites Lucretius and Ovid. The author shows the 
importance of Epicurus for Lucretius and Pythagoras for Ovid in developing a 
lightness of thoughtfulness that is far removed from the lightness of frivolity, 
vagueness, or the haphazard. “Se volessi scegliere un simbolo augurale per 
l’affacciarsi al nuovo millennio, sceglierei questo: l’agile salto improvviso del 
poeta-flloscfo che si solleva sulla pesantezza del mondo, dimostrando che la sua 
gravita contiene il segreto della leggerezza, mentre quella che molti credono 
essere la vitalita dei tempi, rumorosa, aggressiva, scalpitante e rombante, 
appartiene al regno della morte, come un cimitero d’automobili arrugginite” (13). 
The notion of literature nourished by the science of its time recurs throughout 
Calvino’s Lezioni americane. 

Calvino concludes his essay with a defense of the cognitive function of 
literature: “Abituato come sono a considerare la letteratura come ricerca di 
conoscenza, per muovermi sul terreno esistenziale ho bisogno di considerarlo 
esteso all’antropologia, all’etnologia, alla mitologia” (26). The writer 
characterizes literature as an autonomous and age-old mode of comprehension 
whose deepest rationality is to be sought out in the anthropological needs to 
which it corresponds. For Calvino literature offers an alternative form of 
rationality which is intimately related to anthropology, ethnology and 
mythology. The writer is like the tribal shaman: “Alla precarieta dell’ esistenza 
della trib, — siccita, malattie, influssi maligni — lo sciamano rispondeva 
annullando il peso del suo corpo, trasportandosi in volo in un altro mondo, in un 
altro livello di percezione, dove poteva trovare le forze per modificare la realta” 
(28). Both literature and shamanism respond to the same human need for 
“levitation.” In the remaining lectures Calvino develops further the idea of 
literature as an alternative mode of comprehension. 

In the second lecture Calvino extols the virtues of “rapidita” — not only the 
economy of expression characteristic of some of the writer’s most cherished 
Italian folktales but also the “speed of mind” characteristic of writers like 
Leopardi. Calvino cites Leopardi’s Zibaldone to clarify the relationship between 
the two aspects of “rapidita.” “La rapidita e la concisione dello stile piace perché 
presenta all’anima una folla d’idee simultanee, cosi rapidamente succendentisi, 
che paiono simultanee, e fanno ondeggiar l’anima in una tale abbondanza di 
pensieri, o d’immagini e sensazioni spirituali, ch’ella o non @ capace di 
abbracciarle tutte, e pienamente ciascuna, 0 non ha tempo di restare in ozio, e 
priva di sensazioni” (Zibaldone, 3 November 1821, cited in Lezioni americane 
42). It is this exhilarating rush of ideas that the author also admires in Galileo, 
from whom Calvino borrows the metaphor of the horse for the speed of thought: 
“Tl discorrere é come correre,” reasoning like racing. It is this lightning quick 


202 JoAnn Cannon 


rush of ideas that Calvino has tried to capture in his own writing. 

Not surprisingly the lecture on quickness includes a tribute to Borges, to 
whom Calvino attributes the latest invention of a new literary genre. His 
invention was, of course, to pretend that the book he wanted to write had already 
been written, “scritto da un altro, da un ipotetico autore sconosciuto, un autore 
d’un’altra lingua, d’un’altra cultura, — e descrivere, riassumere, recensire questo 
libro ipotetico” (49). The potential fiction of Borges approaches the extreme 
economy and conciseness of which Calvino dreams: “immense cosmologie, 
saghe ed epopee racchiuse nelle dimensioni d’un epigramma” (50). Interestingly 
the memo ends with a kind of postscript on Mercury and Saturn, Saturn “incline 
a una forte introversione, a una scontentezza per il mondo com’é,” Mercury 
“light,” astute, and agile. After confessing that he is a Saturn who dreams of 
being a Mercury, Calvino proceeds to defend the complementarity of constructive 
concentration (Saturn) and participation (Mercury). The third memo begins with 
a definition of “exactitude” and its three component parts: 1) a well-defined plan 
for the work in question; 2) an evocation of clear, incisive, memorable visual 
images; 3) a language as precise as possible both in choice of words and in 
expression of the subtleties of thought and imagination. For examples of his 
cult of exactitude Calvino looks in particular to two writers — Leopardi and 
Poe, whom Valéry described as the demon of lucidity. Both Poe and Leopardi 
make of cosmological conjectures a literary genre and thus lay bare literature’s 
vocation as a “mappa del mondo e dello scibile” (Calvino, Una pietra 187). 
Calvino sees a close relaiionship between the discoveries of modern science and 
the need for a cosmological model in fiction. 


Il gusto della composizione geometrizzante, di cui potremmo tracciare una storia 
nella letteratura mondiale a partire da Mallarmé, ha sullo sfondo l’opposizione 
ordine-disordine, fondamentale nella scienza contemporanea. L’universo si disfa in 
una nube di calore, precipita senza scampo in un vortice d’entropia, ma all’interno di 
questo processo irreversibile possono darsi zone d’ordine, porzioni d’esistente che 
tendono verso una forma, punti privilegiati da cui sembra di scorgere un disegno, una 
prospettiva. L’opera letteraria é una di queste minime porzioni in cui l’esistente si 
cristalizza in una forma.. . 


(68) 


The notion of the work of fiction as a privileged space in which the randomness 
of life is contained and negated by artistic form is of course not original to 
Calvino. What is interesting is the image of the universe as a “vortex of 
entropy” in which areas of order spontaneously form. Calvino’s view of the 
cosmos seems to be informed by the new systems theory of life. In such diverse 
fields as physics, thermodynamics, information theory, and fractal geometry it is 
being shown that order is not the antithesis of chaos but rather its product, that 
instability in complex systems spontaneously gives rise to self-organization. 
Ilya Prigogine has synthesized these recent findings in his landmark work Order 








Italian Postmodernism and Lezioni americane 203 


Out of Chaos, which Calvino called “‘a passionate meditation on Man and 
Universe.” It would seem that Calvino not only shares the world view of the 
chaos theorists but also conceives of literary texts as “self-organizing systems in 
Prigogine’s sense” (Paulson cited in Hayles 320). 

For Calvino the systematicity toward which literature strives is figured in 
the image of the crystal, “il modello di perfezione che ho sempre tenuto come un 
emblema” (69). We must look to Calvino’s “cosmic” fictions for a gloss on the 
metaphor of the crystal. In Ti con zero, the crystal is characterized not as a model 
of perfection but as a symbol of asymmetry. But the apparent disorder masks a 
hidden structure of order. “A ogni asimmetria rispondeva in realta una rete di 
simmetrie” (Calvino, Ti con zero 45). This image of asymmetry embedded 
within a larger design calls to mind the Borgesian library of Babel “in which the 
same volumes are repeated in the same disorder (which repeated, would constitute 
an order, Order itself)” (Borges 87-88). Although the crystal is his most 
cherished emblem, Calvino mentions two contrasting emblems of equal validity 
— the flame, which epitomizes constancy of external form despite unremitting 
internal agitation, and the city, a symbol with even greater possibilities for 
Calvino in that it expresses “la tensione tra razionalita geometrica e groviglio 
delle esistenze umane” (70). The city of Calvino’s fantasy calls to mind not the 
planned city of Le Corbusier but the ad hoc city of Jencks’ classic essay “The 
Rise of Postmodern Architecture” or the hybrid city of Robert Venturi’s 
Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture.4 More than the crystal, the image 
of the city as symbolized in Calvino’s Le cittd invisibili and described in Six 
Memos seems akin to the kind of complex system which, according to chaos 
theory, dwarfs the “ordered systems which science has traditionally regarded as 
norms for the universe” (Hayles 307). Despite Calvino’s obsession with 
geometric precision, the writer recognizes that the true map of the universe may 
well resemble the city of Eudossia, “che dilaga senza forma con vie tutte a zig 
zag,” described in Le cittd invisibili. In his gloss on the image of the city as an 
expression of the tension between geometric rationality and the entanglements of 
human lives Calvino implicitly acknowledges the need to confront complexity, 
disorder, chaos. 

In “Visibilita” Calvino takes his departure from Dante’s definition of 
imagination to underscore the visual quality of fantasy. 


O imaginativa che ne rube 
talvolta si di fuor, ch’om non s’accorge 
perché dintorno suonin mille tube, 

chi move te, se ’] senso non ti porge? 
Moveti lume che nel ciel s’informa 
per sé o per voler che git lo scorge. 


4 See Hardison (112-14) for a discussion of the postmodem city. 


204 JoAnn Cannon 
(Purg. 17:13-18) 


Calvino maintains that “all’origine d’ogni mio racconto c’era un’immagine 
visuale” (88). The cloven viscount, the baron in the trees, the nonexistent knight 
presented themselves to the writer in much the same way as Pirandello’s Six 
Characters. ‘““Dunque nell’ideazione d’un racconto la prima cosa che mi viene alla 
mente @ un’immagine che per qualche ragione mi si presenta come carica di 
significato, anche se non saprei formulare questo significato in termini discorsivi 
o concettuali” (88). As the visual image becomes clear, the writer begins to 
develop the story’s possibilities and to make sense of the image. But once the 
writing has begun, it quickly dominates the field. “Sara la scrittura a guidare il 
racconto nella direzione in cui l’espressione verbale scorre pit felicemente, e 
all’immaginazione visuale non resta che tenerle dietro” (89). It is at this critical 
juncture, the moment of setting pen to paper, that Calvino parts company with 
writers like Pirandello. For Calvino what is of primary importance in the 
genesis of the work of art is the writing process itself, a process governed by a 
set of predetermined combinatory rules that the author has attempted to describe 
in “Cibernetica e fantasmi” (Calvino, Una pietra 164-81). 

This intimate look at the role of the visual imagination in Calvino’s works 
is followed by a survey of the idea of imagination throughout history: 1) the 
notion of imagination as an instrument of human knowledge, and 2) the 
neo-Platonic concept of imagination as a communication with the world soul. 
Calvino declares his support of both these definitions at the same time that he 
recognizes himself in a third definition — “l’immaginazione come repertorio del 
potenziale, dell’ipotetico, di cid che non é né é stato né forse sara ma che avrebbe 
potuto essere” (91). Citing Starobinski’s treatment of Giordano Bruno, Calvino 
suggests that the spiritus phantasticus is a limitless world or gulf of forms and 
images. “Ecco io credo che attingere a questo golfo della molteplicita potenziale 
sia indispensabile per ogni forma di conoscenza. La mente del poeta e in qualche 
momento decisivo la mente dello scienziato funzionano secondo un procedimento 
d’associazioni d’immagini che é il sistema pill veloce di collegare e scegliere tra 
le infinite forme del possibile e dell’impossible” (91). Calvino casts both 
scientist and poet in the role of the visionary who draws upon an infinite number 
of possibilities. 

The idea of a repertory of possibilities that may or may not be realized is 
one of the most pervasive themes in Calvino’s fiction. It is that pool of 
multiplicity which Astolpho tries to recover in the sixth tale of J] castello dei 
destini incrociati. Astolpho is instructed to journey to the moon not to recover 
the phial containing Roland’s lost wits but rather to find “uno sterminato 
deposito [che] conserva dentro ampolle messe in fila . . . le storie che gli uomini 
non vivono, i pensieri che bussano una volta alla soglia della coscienza e 
svaniscono per sempre, le particelle del possibile scartate nel gioco delle 
combinazioni, le soluzioni a cui si potrebbe arrivare e non si arriva .. .” (37). 








Italian Postmodernism and Lezioni americane 205 


The notion of unrealized possibilities in Calvino bears a resemblance to the 
concept of possible worlds as it has been articulated in modal semantics and 
analytical philosophy. Borrowing from Leibnitz, modal semantics distinguishes 
between various types of inactuality. Modal logicians and philosophers conceive 
of the possible world not as a “mere fiction” but as an unrealized possibility. It 
is not within the scope of the present essay to trace all the implications of 
possible world semantics in contemporary thought. It is important to note that 
the notion of possible worlds not only has interesting ramifications for the 
so-called “hard sciences” (the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics, 
for example),° but also for theories of fiction and the status of fictional 
discourse.® Analytical philosophy has come to recognize an affinity between the 
realm of possible worlds and that of literary fictions. In a much more intuitive 
way Calvino seems to have captured the true force of literature as a realm of 
possibilia, a bottomless well of potential multiplicity from which the 
visionary-scientist may draw. In his 1968 essay, “Due interviste su scienza e 
letteratura,” Calvino characterizes literature as a stimulus to the imagination of 
the scientist using the example of Galileo: “L’ideale di sguardo sul mondo che 
guida anche il Galileo scienziato é nutrito di cultura letteraria” (Calvino, Una 
pietra 186). Calvino argues eloquently for the cross pollination of science and 
literature; just as Galileo sought food for thought in Ariosto, so Calvino as a 
writer finds nourishment in Galileo “come precisione di linguaggio, come 
immaginazione scientifico-poetica, come costruzione di congetture” (Calvino, 
Una pietra 187). 

“Visibilita” ends with a discussion of the two versions of Balzac’s Le chef 
d’ oeuvre inconnu. Calvino reads the first version of Balzac’s novel as a parable 
of literature about the elusiveness of the visual imagination, while the second 
version he interprets as a rejection of the literature of fantasy in favor of minute 
description of the world as it is. Balzac’s uncertainty as to how to conclude the 
novel is indicative of a broader truth. 


La fantasia dell’ artista é un mondo di potenzialita che nessuna opera riuscira a mettere 
in atto; quello di cui facciamo esperienza vivendo é un altro mondo, che risponde ad 
altre forme d’ordine e di disordine; gli strati di parole che s’accumulano sulle pagine 
come gli strati di colore sulla tela sono un altro mondo ancora, anch’esso infinito, ma 
pit. governabile, meno refrattario a una forma. I] rapporto tra i tre mondi e 
quell’indefinibile di cui parlava Balzac: o meglio, noi lo diremmo indecidibile, come 
il paradosso d’un insieme infinito che contiene altri insiemi infiniti. 

(97) 


5 See DeWitt and Graham for a discussion of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum 
mechanics. 

6 In addition to Pavel’s Fictional Worlds, see Merrell’s review article, which draws out 
implications of Pavel’s book. 


206 JoAnn Cannon 


The world of experience and the world of words are homologous possible worlds 
subsumed in one infinite repository of forms, a bottomless well or vortex of 
multiplicity. The visionary, whether poet, philosopher, or scientist, draws freely 
from the infinite repertory of possibilities with an agility and lightness of 
thought which Calvino would bequeath to the next millennium. 

In “Molteplicita,” the final and appropriately the most exhaustive lecture of 
Lezioni americane, Calvino finally turns to modern fiction and examines its 
“encyclopedic” quality. The author shows how “enciclopedismo” manifests itself 
in such writers as Gadda, Proust, Flaubert, and Musil. Calvino’s formulation of 
the notions of encyclopedism and multiplicity represents an attempt to locate a 
middle ground between order and chaos, between geometric precision on the one 
hand and complexity, entanglement, the Gaddian pasticciaccio on the other. 
Calvino often spoke of his fascination with Gadda, a writer brought up on the 
culture of science and philosophy who sought all his life to represent the world 
without underestimating its “inestricabile complessita.” Calvino’s predilection 
for Gadda’s unfinished novels, which he likens to “rovine d’ambiziosi progetti, 
che conservano i segni dello sfarzo e della cura meticolosa con cui furono 
concepite” (104), reveals much about the writer’s own ambitious literary efforts. 
Like Gadda, Calvino has often found his ambitions of geometric rationality to be 
at odds with the effort to present the tangible side of the world as precisely as 
possible. This uneasy truce between two conflicting tendencies in Calvino’s 
fiction is apparent in Le cittd invisibili, where the Khan’s desire for precision is 
overwhelmed by the chaos of facts which Marco Polo presents in his reports. 
Marco Polo’s vast, encyclopedic “competence” reminds us that the encyclopedia 
is “a potentially unordered and unrestricted galaxy of pieces of world knowledge” 
(Eco, Semiotics 68). 

The use of the terms multiplicity and encyclopedism in the final lecture of 
Lezioni americane both conceals and reveals the dispersive power of the 
encyclopedia. Calvino begins to refer to the open encyclopedia to convey the 
centrifugal force underlying “enciclopedismo” in Musil, Proust, Flaubert, Gadda 
(and perhaps Calvino himself). As the writer points out, the adjective “aperta” 
contradicts the noun “enciclopedia, nato etimologicamente dalla pretesa di 
esaurire la conoscenza del mondo rinchiudendola in un circolo” (113). But the 
promise of totality is illusory, the encyclopedia can never be complete. In this 
sense the open encyclopedia closely resembles a labyrinth. Calvino does not 
advocate surrender to the labyrinth, however. In his discussion of Bouvard et 
Pécuchet, the author takes issue with the standard reading of Flaubert’s 
unfinished novel as an expression of “la vanita del sapere tout court.”’ He opts 
instead for Queneau’s reading of Flaubert’s text. “Flaubert est pour la science . . 
. dans la mesure justement ou celle-ci est sceptique, méthodique, prudente, 


7 Calvino’s reading of Bouvard et Pécuchet closely resembles Culler’s interpretation of the 
novel. 


Italian Postmodernism and Lezioni americane 207 


humaine. Il a horreur des dogmatiques, des métaphysiciens, des philosophes” 
(112). Reading Flaubert through Queneau Calvino makes the point that 
literature, like science, must distrust facile explanations. It must embrace chaotic 
multiplicity not in a spirit of helplessness and hopelessness so often associated 
with the postmodern condition but in a spirit of curiosity tinged with a salutary 
skepticism. 

For Calvino the greatest writers of our century are those who have inherited 
Flaubert’s “scetticismo attivo,” his sense of gambling and betting 
“nell’ostinazione a stabilire relazioni tra i discorsi e i metodi e i livelli” (113). 
Calvino’s admiration for Flaubert’s forma mentis calls to mind recent 
discussions of the logic of scientific discovery and the importance of skepticism 
as an active catalyst of the scientific attitude. Skepticism is central to the work 
of Karl Popper, whose view of science as a series of conjectures and refutations 
is in turn derived from the doctrine of fallibilism articulated by Charles Sanders 
Peirce.’ Peirce maintained that it was infallibilism, the belief in absolute truths, 
that blocks the road to scientific progress. The first rule of reason is “not to be 
satisfied with what you already incline to think.” We need not trace Calvino’s 
admiration for the intellectual gambler, from Lucretius to Galileo to Flaubert, to 
any specific source. What is worth our attention is the degree to which his 
perception of the conjectural quality of knowledge is congenial with postmodem 
philosophy of science. Equally noteworthy is the way in which Calvino blurs 
the distinction between scientisi, philosopher, and writer. What Calvino would 
bequeath to the next millennium is the admittedly overambitious project of 
weaving together “i diversi saperi e i diversi codici in una visione plurima, 
sfaccettata del mondo” (110). 

“La conoscenza come molteplicita e il filo che lega le opere maggiori, tanto 
di quello che viene chiamato modernismo quanto di quello che viene chiamato il 
postmodern, un filo che — al di 14 di tutte le etichette — vorrei continuasse a 
svolgersi nel prossimo millennio” (113). The books that Calvino loves are as 
minutely planned as Dante’s Commedia. What matters, however, “non é il suo 
chiudersi in una figura armoniosa, ma é la forza centrifuga che da esso si 
sprigiona” (113). Joyce sets out to write a systematic and encyclopedic work and 
what he achieves in Finnegans Wake is an encyclopedia of styles. Calvino 
includes in his “apologia del romanzo come grande rete,” an open encyclopedia, 
an explanation of his predilection for Borges: “ogni suo testo contiene un 
modello dell’universo o d’un attributo dell’universo” (115). What Calvino 
admires in Borges, or in the hyper-novels of Georges Perec, is what he has called 
elsewhere the vocation of Italian literature “che passa da Dante a Galileo: l’opera 
letteraria come mappa del mondo e dello scibile, lo scrivere mosso da una spinta 
conoscitiva che é ora teologica ora speculativa ora stregonesca ora enciclopedica 


81am borrowing from Eco’s treatment of fallibilism in Peirce and Popper in The Sign of Three 
198-220. 


208 JoAnn Cannon 


ora di filosofia naturale ora di osservazione trasfigurante e visionaria” (Calvino, 
Una pietra 187). The map of the world which Calvino would bequeath to the 
next millennium is an open encyclopedia which is potential, conjectural, and 
manifold. 

Lezioni americane gives us an intimate glimpse at some of the sources from 
which Calvino drew his intellectual “nourishment.” Whether Calvino’s lectures 
will be read as a prescription for future generations of writers is open to 
question. Calvino certainly makes an eloquent case for the cross-pollination of 
science and literature and for literature as an alternative mode of comprehension. 
With his insistence on the cognitive role of fiction Calvino unquestionably parts 
company with those postmodern writers who argue the futility of rational 
thought. Through his readings of Lucretius, Leopardi, Flaubert, and Borges, 
Calvino advocates a manifold and conjectural fiction as a “mappa dello scibile.” 
At this point it is appropriate to remind ourselves that Calvino’s legacy to the 
next millennium must be assessed primarily through his fiction. It is in his 
most fantastic, “weightless” tales that Calvino makes his most eloquent case for 
literature’s unique power. There is one of Calvino’s cosmicomic tales which can 
be regarded as paradigmatic of Calvino’s legacy as articulated in his Lezioni 
americane. In “Quanto scommettiamo” the writer looks at the universe from a 
radically new perspective — the origin of space and time. “Quanto 
scommettiamo” is a cosmological fiction which lays bare man’s incurable 
propensity for conjecture. Two adversaries, Qfwfq and Decano (k)yK, adrift in the 
timeless void, begin to place bets on the form that the universe will take. Indeed, 
Qfwfq’s first victory comes when he bets that there will be a universe. Qfwfq 
ascribes his addiction to gambling to primordial ennui. “Facevamo sempre delle 
scommesse, io e il Decano, perché non c’era proprio altro da fare, e anche perché 
l’unica prova che io ci fossi era il fatto che scommettevo con lui. . .” (Calvino, 
Le cosmicomiche 104). This comical reversal of the Cartesian cogito underscores 
the conjectural quality of human knowledge. 

At first Qfwfq’s wagers are quite straightforward: we’re heading for atoms 
today, the protostars will catch fire, an isotope of bismuth will be formed. Being 
a conservative, unimaginative type, the antagonist generally limits himself to 
betting that events will not occur. With an agility of mind which staggers his 
opponent, Qfwfq correctly “predicts” the various stages of the evolution of the 
universe as described by contemporary physics. Qfwfq becomes increasingly 
rash, forging ever more links onto his chain of deductions. One day as Qfwfq and 
(k)yK are suspended in the limitless primordial void prognosticating on the still 
nonexistent universe, Qfwfq makes a new kind of challenge: “Ora senti un po’, 
(k)yK, secondo te, gli Assiri la invaderanno, la Mesopotamia?” Here Calvino’s 
protagonist passes from what Braudel calls geographical time, in which events 
occur over the course of aeons, to social time, “the shorter time by which 
economies, states, and civilizations are measured” (Toffler xvii-xviii). It is at 
this point that Qfwfq’s predictions, and his modus operandi, prove erroneous. 





ge | ee ee 


Italian Postmodernism and Lezioni americane 209 


The protagonist’s world view (or paradigm in the Kuhnian sense) is a 
classical, Newtonian one in which chance plays no part. Qfwfq’s method is 
predicated upon the assumption of a stable, predictable mechanical universe. It is 
just such an image that has recently been challenged in such diverse fields as 
physics (Feigenbaum), thermodynamics, information theory, and fractal 
geometry (Mandelbrot). Both the “hard” sciences, which study geographical time, 
and the social sciences, which study social time, have increasingly moved away 
from the deterministic, Newtonian paradigm. It is argued that, although closed, 
mechanistic systems do exist, open processes involving randomness or 
irreversibility are much more common. The phenomena which Prigogine and 
others would unite under the umbrella term “chaos theory” seem to possess a 
deep structure of order. Chaos is no longer seen as an absence of order but rather 
as a presence of maximum information. 

The reevaluation of our scientific world models is still in its infancy. What 
is interesting is that Calvino, in “Quanto scommettiamo,” seems to have 
intuited the logical absurdity of the idea of an entirely mechanistic, deterministic 
world. In the preface to Ilya Prigogine’s Order Out of Chaos, the Nobel laureate 
muses: “Even the scientist who is convinced of the validity of deterministic 
descriptions would probably hesitate to imply that at the very moment of the 
Big Bang, the moment of the creation of the universe as we know it, the date of 
the publication of this book was already inscribed in the laws of nature” 
(Prigogine xvii). And yet it is precisely this absurdly mechanistic world view 
that Qfwfq adopts as he undertakes ever more risky meta-bets from his vantage 
point at the origin of time. On the 8th of February 1926 Signorina Giuseppina 
Pensotti leaves her home. Does she turn right or left? Does Lucien de Rubempré 
commit suicide at the end of Balzac’s Illusions perdues? Qfwfq’s winning streak 
comes to an abrupt halt, forcing the protagonist to come to terms with the 
unpredictable, aleatory character of human events. (k)yK triumphantly ticks off 
his victories: Pharaoh Amenhotep IV didn’t have male children, Pompey didn’t 
defeat Caesar, Lucien de Rubempré didn’t commit suicide. These possible worlds 
remained just that — possibilities which by chance, at the point of bifurcation, 
remained unrealized. 

Calvino’s story cannot be reduced to a simple parable. This tale is a conte 
philosophique, as Calvino has defined the term in his discussion of Cyrano de 
Bergerac; “not a ‘story’ with a thesis to demonstrate but one in which ideas 
appear and disappear and tease one another in turn” (Calvino, The Uses of 
Literature 336). The beauty of “Quanto scommettiamo” lies in its very 
suggestiveness. It is a speculation about time and space, about the status of 
scientific inquiry, historiography and literary discourse, about the crisis of the 
social or human sciences. The hero of “Quanto scommettiamo” typifies the 
doggedly inquisitive mind characteristic of Calvino’s most memorable 
protagonists — from Marco Polo and Kublai Khan of Le citta invisibili to 
Palomar to the various narrators of Sotto il sole giaguaro. Like each of these 


210 JoAnn Cannon 


incarnations of homo conjecturans, Qfwfq relies heavily on heuristic systems 
which may prove to be unreliable. As Qfwfq and (k)yK pore over the newspapers 
to determine the outcome of their wagers, Qfwfq longs for the simplicity of their 
earlier skirmishes. “E io penso a com’era bello allora, attraverso quel vuoto, 
tracciare rette e parabole, individuare il punto esatto, l’intersezione tra spazio e 
tempo in cui sarebbe scoccato l’avvenimento, incontestabile nello spicco del suo 
bagliore; mentre adesso gli avvenimenti vengono git ininterrotti, come una 
colata di cemento, uno in colonna sull’altro, uno incastrato nell’ altro, separati da 
titoli neri e incongrui, leggibili per pid versi ma intrinsecamente illeggibili. . .” 
(112). Yet what is perhaps most striking in this fiction is not the protagonist’s 
pessimism but rather his intellectual hubris, his determination to persevere in 
the face of apparently insurmountable odds. As the inveterate gambler draws 
down his Swiss bank account to cover his increasingly heavy losses, we know 
that Qfwfq’s obsessively mechanistic rationality wili be upset by “the 
entanglements of human lives.” Yet there is always the possibility that Qfwfq’s 
luck will change, that a deep structure of order will emerge from the chaotic 
“noise” of human affairs. 


University of California, Davis 








Italian Postmodernism and Lezioni americane 211 


Works Cited 


Barth, John. “The Literature of Replenishment: Postmodernist Fiction.” The Atlantic 
(January 1980): 69. 

Borges, Jorge Luis. Ficciones. Trans. Emece Editores. New York: Grove,1962. 

Calvino, Italo. Lezioni americane. Milano: Garzanti, 1988. 

. Una pietra sopra. Torino: Einaudi, 1980. 

. Ti con zero. Torino: Einaudi, 1967. 
. The Uses of Literature. New York: Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, 1986. 

Cannon, JoAnn. Postmodern Italian Fiction: The Crisis of Reason in Calvino. Eco. 
Sciascia. Malerba. London: Associated University Presses, 1989. 

De Lauretis, Teresa. “Narrative Discourse in Calvino: Praxis or Poiesis.” PMLA 90 
(1975): 414-25. 

Culler, Jonathan. Flaubert: The Uses of Uncertainty. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1985 . 

DeWitt, Bryce S. and Neill Graham, eds. The Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum 
Mechanics. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1973 . 

Eco, Umberto. “Horns, Hooves, Insteps: Some Hypotheses on Three Types of 
Abduction.” The Sign of Three: Dupin. Holmes. Peirce. Eds. Umberto Eco and 
Thomas Sebeok. Bloomington, Indiana UP: 1983. 198-220. 

. Semiotics and Philosophy of Language. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1984. 

Gitlin, Todd. “Hip-Deep in Post-Modernism.” New York Times Book Review. 
(November 6, 1988): 3 & 35-36. 

Hardison, 0. B. Disappearing Through the Skylight. New York: Viking Press, 1 989. 

Hayles, N. Katherine. “Chaos as Orderly Disorder: Shifting Ground in Contemporary 
Literature and Science.” New Literary History 20 (Winter 1989): 320. 

Merrrell, Floyd. “Fiction, Fact, Phalanx, Phantasm.” Diacritics (Spring 1989): 2-16. 

Paulson, William. The Noise of Culture: Literary Texts in a World of Information. 
Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1988 . 

Pavel, Thomas G. Fictional Worlds. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. 

Prigogine, Ilya and Isabelle Stengers. Order Out of Chaos. Toronto: Bantam Books, 
1984. 

Toffler, Alvin. Forward. Ilya Progogine and Isabelle Stengers. Order Out of Chaos 
Xi-XXVi. 








Angela M. Jeannet 


Escape from the Labyrinth: 
Italo Calvino’s Marcovaldo 





1. Introduction 


Copying a text, even letter by letter, is writing anew, Borges taught us. Words, 
phrases and sentences do not mean what they once did when they are drawn again 
on the page, reproposed in a new format and reread in a new context. The second 
collection of Marcovaldo stories, which Calvino published in 1963 as a 
paperback entitled Marcovaldo ovvero le stagioni in cittd,’ is that intriguing 
product, the rewriting of a previous text. The first collection remained embedded 
in the volume of J racconti and almost disappeared from the consciousness of 
Calvino’s readers, in part because it had become less accessible, hidden as it was 
in a large and relatively expensive volume. 

What is the significance of Calvino’s re-elaboration of the Marcovaldo 
pieces? Given the transformations of the collection and the changed historical and 
literary context, how does the 1963 reformulation build on the elements of the 
first version and relate to the works that followed? I submit that the second 
Marcovaldo is the work that mediates between two major phases of Calvino’s 
activity. 


2. A New Context 


It is by now commonplace to say that the late Fifties marked the end of an era in 
Italian post-Second World War history, particularly in the lives of those 
intellectuals who were in any way connected with the Italian Communist Party.” 


1 My quotes come from the 1983 edition of J racconti and the 1973 edition of Marcovaldo. It is 
interesting to note that Marcovaldo was only translated into English in 1983, twenty years after 
its publication in Italy, and is still the least known of Calvino’s works, in ite U.S. 

2 For an extensive treatment of this historical moment and its impact on cultural life, see Asor 
Rosa’s “Lo stato democratico e i partiti politici” in Letteratura italiana 1: 547-643. On page 
614, a heading reads: “II 1956: fine di un ciclo.” Among those who have addressed Calvino’s 
sociocultural context, see Giovanni Falaschi, who drew one of the first major portraits of 
Calvino and asserted, speaking of the late Fifties’ crisis: “il 1956-’57 &@ cosi significativo per 
almeno due generazioni di comunisti che . . . lo sfondo . . . conta pit delle posizioni del 








Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 213 


Bitterness about the practices of Soviet Communism compounded the 
disappointment with the way Italian politics had evolved after the Resistance. 
Many felt increasing perplexity as to the direction they were to take in their 
personal and political activities. In 1956, Calvino wrote the last short story of 
the first Marcovaldo series, “Luna e Gnac.” In 1957, he published // barone 
rampante and withdrew from specifically political commitments. In 1958, he 
published / racconti, after selecting and carefully rearranging the greatest part of 
his short fiction (but not all of it).4 Clearly, he was rethinking his personal 
positions and literary practice. The reflective statements he made shortly 
thereafter insist on two or three concepts: the primacy of a lucidity which does 
not indulge in pessimism, the importance of filtering every memory through 
irony and fantasy, and the need for what Calvino repeatedly called “obstinacy 
without illusions.”4 

By 1963, a mere six years later, something clearly had shifted in Italian 
cultural life. At forty years of age, Calvino already appeared as representative of 
an earlier generation. His major essays centered on the crisis experienced by 
writers over their inability to reconcile words and deeds, i.e., writing and being 
in the world, but they also called for challenging the sense of entrapment felt by 
many, and for exorcising the fascination exerted by the “labyrinth,” that world of 
objectification which consumerism was proposing as the new human 
environment.° The essays’ posture, as well as the spirit of La giornata d’ uno 
scrutatore, published in that same year 1963, met with cutting criticism by some 
younger critics.® In retrospect, it is clear why those works seemed out of tune 


singolo” (“Ritratti di contemporanei” 544). Lidia De Federicis, in an excellent school edition of 
La giornata d’uno scrutatore, devotes an entire section to “Il cambiamento culturale dal 1953 al 
1963,” the decade that elapsed between the planning and the actual publication of La giornata as 
well as between the two Marcovaldos. Ferretti reiterates: “Il discorso di Calvino . . . e la sua 
ricerca di un’integrazione uomo-mondo continua . . . anche dopo la crisi del °56, ma qualcosa 
certamente muta” (Le capre di Bikini 46). However, he adds an interesting correction: “Ma nella 
sostanza il 56, pit’ che rappresentare un salto, una svolta nell’itinerario di Calvino, fa piena 

luce su quanto Calvino stesso recava fin dall’inizio dentro di sé” (Le capre di Bikini 46-47; 

author’s emphasis). 

For an analysis of the entire volume of / racconti see Ricci, especially 1-17, where the short 

stories are defined as steps in a “labyrinthine journey” (10). 
4 The major essays where those concepts appear are: “Natura e storia del romanzo” (1958), now 
in Una pietra sopra (19-38), where the expression “ostinazione nonostante tutto” first appears 
(38; the italics are Calvino’s) and “Tre correnti del romanzo italiano d’oggi” (1959; Una pietra 
sopra 46-57). Then came “II mare dell’oggettivita” (1959; Una pietra sopra 39-45), which used 
again “ostinazione senza illusioni” as a closing expression. 

The concepts I paraphrase are presented in “Pavese: essere e fare” (1960; Una pietra sopra 58- 
63), “Dialogo di due scrittori in crisi” (1961; Una pietra sopra 64-69), “La sfida al labirinto” 
(1962; Una pietra sopra 82-97) and “Un’amara serenita” (1963; Una pietra sopra 98-99). 
© Those were the years when the Gruppo 63 was active and vocal. Angelo Guglielmi, one of its 
members, commenting on “La sfida al labirinto,” accused Calvino of remaining faithful to a 
literature interested in the essence of things, in order, rules and perspective to control the 


214 Angela M. Jeannet 


with the early sixties: they brought to the emerging new Italy echoes of the 
literary and cultural discourses elaborated over the previous thirty years. 
Meanwhile, the “New Novel” was triumphant in France, flaunting its disdain for 
obvious political commitment and for the common pleasures of a fiction wedded 
to characters and plots. 

Today, thirty years later, Calvino’s 1963 publications, i.e., the essays cited 
above, La giornata d’ uno scrutatore, and especially Marcovaldo, appear more 
complex and in tune with their times than his critics believed. Calvino’s move, 
also in 1963, from the Turin of the so-called Italian “economic miracle” to the 
Paris of structuralism and semiology, further suggests a symbolic shift in 
perspective. But the significant gesture of a writer is writing, and the second 
Marcovaldo is that gesture. 


3. The New Text 


Speaking of the two Marcovaldos, in an article published in 1975, Maria Corti 
asserted that, as compared with the first collection, the new one did not have a 
cohesive model or generative structure, had moved very far from the spirit and 
the nature of the first collection, and, although artistically very valid, was not a 
unitary textual body or macrotext (“Testi 0 macrotesto?”).”? Calvino, self- 
reflective a writer as he was, mulled over some of Maria Corti’s conclusions, as 
we learn from a footnote to the 1978 reprint of Corti’s essay, where she quotes 
from a letter Calvino wrote her.® Calvino insisted that “resta aperta la possibilita 
di studiare il modello di trasformazione dal macrotesto I a un nuovo (possibile, 
forse non realizzato) macrotesto II, in cui la struttura di calendario diventa 
decisiva (a cominciare dal titolo Le stagioni in cittd) e viene sottintesa una 
dimensione di sviluppo storico" (//] viaggio testuale 200 n.). These remarks 
cannot be simply attributed to Calvino’s sensitivity to criticism or his 


world’s multiplicity (“Una ‘sfida’ senza avversari” 259). Calvino — Guglielmi said — with his 
“vecchia anima razional-moralistica” (266) could not appreciate the fact that the world had 
drastically changed and that it was necessary to acknowledge the crisis of all values. Barilli had 
already expressed reservations about Calvino’s J racconti, as he saw in them all the limitations 
of an Italian fondness for “measure,” lacking energy and daring (La barriera del naturalismo 210- 
20). Although recognizing Calvino’s skill at avoiding the pitfalls in which other less shrewd 
writers had fallen, he castigated him for his caution, his "senso comune,” his refusal of whatever 
was “diverso” (La barriera 260-61). Guglielmi and Barilli compared Calvino unfavorably with 
the European writers of that first half century, particularly the “new novelists” such as Robbe- 
Grillet. 

7 Corti wrote “Testi o macrotesto? (1975). Ahern followed Corti’s lead, at the end of his article 
on “Gli amori difficili.” For a recent reading of the first Marcovaldo cycle, see my “Requiem for 
the Idyll.” 

8 The 1975 article became part of “Trittico per Calvino,” in J! viaggio testuale, with few 

changes. 








Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 215 


necessarily idiosyncratic perspective on his own work. Calvino’s keen critical 
awareness provides us with some valuable clues: structure is a crucial addition in 
the new collection, a historical perspective is an integral element, and the text’s 
cohesiveness may be of a different kind from that of the earlier cycle.? 

The original cluster of ten stories, linearly constructed and located within the 
volume J racconti, was extracted from its context and dismembered. Each story 
became a movable component in a new order and part of a free-standing text. 
Gaps were created and filled by new stories. A visible scaffolding was erected to 
support and define the whole, which had previously been held inconspicuously 
together by implicit connections. Paratextual clues drew attention to the changed 
identity of the collection: the volume had its own title (Marcovaldo), a subtitle 
(ovvero Le stagioni in cittd), a blurb on the cover and illustrations. 

The most obvious elements of a book are often also the most significant 
clues for an analysis of the text, as the writer suggested in the letter cited earlier. 
The title and subtitle of the new volume effect the break with the past. The title 
is a message emphasizing the centrality of the protagonist’s presence. 
Marcovaldo is the first Calvinian character to give his name to a book. Only 
Palomar, twenty years later, will perform the same function. The subtitle 
translates, in less abstract but more peremptory terms, the oxymoron present in 
the subtitle of the earlier cycle, Gli idilli difficili, where “difficult” carried the 
connotations of problematical, improbable and elusive, contradicting the pastoral 
connotations of the term “idylls.” The paradoxes of the protagonist’s universe are 
now made explicit. The term “the seasons,” with its pastoral overtones, is linked 
to “the city,” which traditionally indicates a stressful, exciting reality in 
opposition to the “natural.”!° The preposition “in” inserts the first term of an 
antinomy, which is conventional but by no means proven, into the second term. 
The simplicity of the subtitle (what could be plainer than “the seasons in the 
city”?) is further contradicted by the controlled patterning of the collection. For 
the first time in his career, Calvino plays consciously with grids, headings, 
cycles and returns, which contain under the camouflage of seeming transparency 
the proliferation of unmanageable elements in the protagonist’s universe. As for 


9 The importance of Calvino’s insight is confirmed by an article Corti published in Strumenti 
critici in 1990. After recalling the letter Calvino had sent her, she observes how “a Calvino 
preme approfondire ogni questione strutturale riguardante la costruzione di ogni suo testo” (“Nel 
laboratorio di Italo Calvino” 140). Moreover, a further quotation from that same letter tells us 
that Calvino, referring to Corti’s allusion to the surrealistic endings of the later short stories, 
saw that technique as belonging to "una categoria formale pid estesa di quadro finale visionario 
gremito di figure, di allargarsi del campo visivo a una panoramica minuziosa, che pud essere 
surreale o non esserlo” (140; Calvino’s emphasis). 

10 Calvino had already played with this dichotomy and had undermined it by insisting on the 
symbiotic relationship of the two constructs, ever since the time of I] sentiero dei nidi di ragno, 
then in short stories such as “Paese infido” (J racconti 81-88) and in short stories such as “La 
formica argentina” and “La nuvola di smog” (J racconti 357-85 and 454-95). 


216 Angela M. Jeannet 


the “ovvero” linking title to subtitle, the conjunction is a playful and 
untranslatable archaism. The fables are inserted in a tradition of storytelling. 

On the volume’s overleaf, an anonymous voice speaks of Italo Calvino and 
his authorial intent, underlining the communicative dimension of writing, while 
distancing and objectifying author and text. The blurb says that the author has 
remained faithful to “[il] suo ideale stilistico d’una prosa articolata, agile e 
limpida.” The new collection is part of a series called “Libri per l’infanzia e la 
gioventi” and the audience is now specifically mentioned. It is composed of 
children of various ages (“bambini e ragazzi”), although it does not exclude an 
earlier public: “Anche il lettore non pit ragazzo vi trovera il divertimento 
pungente che é abituato a cercare nei libri di Calvino . . .”11 Do Marcovaldo’s 
adventures — as the blurb says — remain “fedeli a una classica struttura 
narrativa: quella delle storielle a vignette dei giornali dell’infanzia”? The assertion 
needs to be qualified, as I will seek to do in the analysis of the text. For now, I 
will only point out that indeed the text’s visual apparatus is due to a major 
author of Italian comic strips for children, Sergio Tofano, a significant choice.!2 

Formal changes in the original ten stories fall, by and large, into two 
categories. All the characters acquire names, and some acquire new ones. The 
maid in “Il piccione comunale,” Teresa, becomes Guendalina, the night 
watchman in “La villeggiatura in panchina” becomes Tornaquinci, and the 
foreman becomes Signor Viligelmo. The author confirms the dichotomy he had 
already established between two groups of characters. Adult characters of humble 
Station are burdened with archaic, noble names, which signify their estrangement 
from their sociohistoric context.!> The children, on the other hand, being at ease 
in a world that is not a disappointment to them, acquire more realistic names. 
Paolino joins the earlier Michelino, Filippetto and Teresina, while an earlier 
Daniele becomes Pietruccio. 

Some changes are related to reader reception. In order to update the allusions 
to popular culture, the Superman of the early fifties (J racconti 173) is replaced 
by the Nembo Kid of the early sixties (Marcovaldo 84).!4 Also, what Calvino 


11 Calvino himself wrote the material used in the blurbs. Calvino’s analysis of his Marcovaldo 
is like a preview of the critical readings that followed. He mentioned the book’s “comico-poetic 
whimsy,” “neorealist concern with day-to-day struggles,” “satire of the ‘economic miracle, 
etc., in one of his many playful forecasts of his own books’ reception, for which he should be 
famous. 

12 Sergio Tofano (1886-1973) was the creator of several comic strip characters, for example // 
signor Bonaventura, which appeared in children’s periodicals, such as the Corriere dei piccoli, 
an insert of the Corriere della sera. He was much admired and cited by Calvino. 

13 This technique is reminiscent of the convention established in the comic strips of the 
thirties and forties, where, for instance, Jiggs and Maggie, whose names carried a connotation 
of blue collar roots in the American original, became Arcibaldo and Petronilla in the Italian 
translation. 

14 Interestingly, he becomes the Lone Ranger in William Weaver's translation (Marcovaldo 


7 oo 





Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 217 


saw as appropriate only for a text which was not consciously directed at young 
people is eliminated or transformed. For instance, the episode of the women 
selling cigarettes on the black market (J racconti 169) disappears from “La 
villeggiatura in panchina” (Marcovaldo 17); talk about quattrini (Marcovaldo 55) 
replaces talk about ragazze (I racconti 162); “le quadruplici mammelle e sozze 
code” of the cows (I racconti 163) disappear; an allusion to breasts (J racconti 
156) and the mechanics of a rabbit’s reproduction (J racconti 157) also disappear 
(Marcovaldo 63; 64). 

Two crucial stories experience major changes, which are more in tune with 
the sixties, but also stress the stories’ lyric quality. “La villeggiatura in 
panchina” is extensively reworked.!> Its title in J racconti was simply “La 
panchina”; the mention of “la villeggiatura” adds an ironic sociocultural 
connotation, as summer vacations used to be the privilege of the upper middle 
class (as Goldoni had already testified in his comedies!) and still remain out of 
reach for the perpetually city-bound Marcovaldo. In the second version, the 
poetic/comical aura is accentuated, while many realistic touches are erased. For 
instance, a pillow reminiscent of Linus’ blanket replaces the old rolled up shirt 
which originally served as a pillow (J racconti 166; 167; 168; Marcovaldo 14; 
15). An episode concerning two black market vendors and their arrest is 
eliminated (I racconti 169). A factual remark disappears: “d’estate, data la minor 
disponibilita dell’acquedotto, la chiudevano” (J racconti 170). The timid 
announcement (I racconti 169) of the theme that will be movingly developed in 
“L’avventura di due sposi” (J racconti 345-48) is sacrificed, so that it will not 
distract from the Marcovaldian themes. A sentence on page 171 of I racconti 
(“Come succede a chi ha occhio, lo trovd a occhi semichiusi”) becomes an 
aphorism, in keeping with the playfully didactic character of the new collection: 
“Chi ha occhio trova quel che cerca, anche a occhi chiusi” (Marcovaldo 19). A 
colloquialism “tirar su” (J racconti 171) becomes “vuotare” (Marcovaldo 19), 
another: “Orcalorca . . .” (J racconti 145) is eliminated. Some rhetorical devices, 
on the other hand, are insisted upon: an exclamation “Oh, potessi . . .” is added 
in the first paragraph of the story, and “da sentirlo laggit” (J racconti 170) 
becomes “che appena s’indovina laggit” (Marcovaldo 18), with its added poetic 
indeterminacy. 

In “Luna e Gnac,” in addition to the changes in the children’s names 
indicated earlier, there is a major transformation of Isolina and Fiordaligi, from 
proletarian adolescents to romantic dreamers. Isolina “coi suoi diciott’anni” (/ 
racconti 173) becomes a less specific “ormai . . . una ragazza grande” 


1983, 72). 

15 «yp, panchina” had a complex history, which Corti documented in /I viaggio testuale (201- 
20) and in her more recent article (“Nel laboratorio di Italo Calvino” 137-46). It was first a short 
story, then a libretto for an opera produced in 1955, with music composed by Sergio Liberovici, 
then the short story of J racconti, and finally the version revised for Marcovaldo. 


218 Angela M. Jeannet 


(Marcovaldo 83) and loses the vividness which a gesture had given her: “si 
stirava nella vestina stretta” ([ racconti 173). Fiordaligi, in love with the 
unattainable “ragazza color di luna,” da “ragazzo quindicenne precocemente 
sviluppato” (I racconti 174) becomes a “giovinotto melanconico” (Marcovaldo 
84). 


3.1 Voices and Metatext 

Language contains a text’s fundamental clues. Since it bears the traces of all 
previous users, acting like a societal record, it does not disguise connections, but 
rather acknowledges them. The discourse of the first Marcovaldo was already 
exquisitely literary, that is, written in a medium rich in allusions and supremely 
controlled. 

The cartoon-like quality of the early stories is accentuated and reveals clearer 
traces of other reminiscences. For instance, and most significantly, Collodi’s 
voice is now more audible. Certainly Le avventure di Pinocchio was a much 
more important influence on Calvino’s formation and in shaping his linguistic 
medium than many texts he read later in life.1© As a matter of fact, just in case 
our ears were not sufficiently sensitive, in 1966 the author provided clues in the 
“users’ instructions” he placed as a preface to the school edition of Marcovaldo. 
A longish heading (Marcovaldo 1966, 5) defines the preface as “‘seria e un po’ 
noiosa,” uses the archaic and playful expression “ragion per cui,” addresses “‘i 
nostri lettori,” suggests to “saltarla,” although he condescendingly admits that 
this preface may be useful to some hapless schoolmaster. By suggesting the 
“appropriate” reading, the Author plays a self-conscious game, becomes his own 
reader, learns his own “lesson,” but then deftly slips away to avoid any 
permanent interpretation. Open to dialogue but as elusive as that of the older 
Tuscan writer, the voice of the Author speaks about a more naive and stubborn 


16 “Ogni elenco [di letture] credo deva cominciare con Pinocchio che ho sempre considerato un 
modello di narrazione,” said Calvino to Corti, speaking of his formative years (“Intervista” 48). 
Only a few examples of Collodian echoes in Calvino’s linguistic medium can be given here. 
Serio and noioso belong to the semantic area that connotes schools and teachers throughout Le 
avventure di Pinocchio. The use of the Tuscan babbo (Marcovaldo 11) and figliolo (Marcovaldo 
10; 70; 84), of expressions such as pizzicorino (Pinocchio 144; Marcovaldo 132), pastrano 
(Pinocchio 204; Marcovaldo 74), pazienza! (Pinocchio 160; 162; 171; 172; 191; etc.; 
Marcovaldo 134) and expressions such as ragion per cui (Marcovaldo 5; Pinocchio, motivo per 
cui 156; 184) trigger Collodian memories. Also important are some classic Collodian 
expressions such as courtesy formulas: “Arrivedella [sic], stia bene e tanti saluti a casa” 
(Pinocchio 155, and similarly 214; Marcovaldo 77; 78). I could cite famous situations, such as 
Pinocchio eating the pear peelings and cores (Pinocchio 159-60; Marcovaldo 64), oral 
narration patterns (Pinocchio 200, 249; Marcovaldo “si volta e cosa vede?” 27) and comical 
inventions such as explaining a sneeze as a sign of a person’s sensitivity (Pinocchio 170; 
Marcovaldo 9). (I wish to thank Dr. Silvia Spandre of the University of Turin, who is 
collaborating with Prof. Giorgio De Rienzo, of the same University, on the Concordanze delle 
avventure di Pinocchio, for answering my queries on Collodi’s lexicon.) 





Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 219 


burattino than Pinocchio, i.e., Marcovaldo, who never learns his lesson, is never 
subjected to the indignity of becoming “un bambino per bene,” but rather 
disappears for good. 

The two major voices speaking in Marcovaldo are interconnected in even 
more ambiguous ways than was the case in the earlier cycle. The narrating voice, 
with its interferences that take the form of asides and poetic flights, boldly 
appropriates Marcovaldo’s voice, his point of view and his feelings. Very early 
in the collection, the narrating voice suggests the total control it exerts on the 
character, by evoking the ghost of the page where Marcovaldo exists, in “La citta 
smarrita nella neve,” and by making the physical ink trace that gives Marcovaldo 
life the focus of the story entitled “I figli di Babbo Natale.” As Calvino was to 
assert later, the ink drawing on the page “‘presuppone una penna che la traccia, e 
Ogni penna presuppone una mano che la impugna” (“La penna in prima 
persona,” Una pietra sopra 295). The story is clearly the storyteller’s domain. 


3.2 A New Plan 

The major change in the new text is the grid formed by two coordinates, time 
and space. This grid distances the narrative episodes and further stresses the 
intersection of “nature” and “history.” The natural cycle of the seasons, 
determinant and yet curiously distant in its mechanical repetitiveness, structures 
life in the city, while the city expands its function as an indispensable prison and 
a dream machine. Each coordinate bears the weight of the text’s contradictions. 
Time runs on two tracks: on one side there are memory and desire, those 
conditions determined by historical forces. On the other side, there is the rigid 
pattern of a calendar, whose ahistorical phases mark the parallel boundaries of 
Marcovaldo’s existence and the narrator’s storytelling, as each season affects the 
protagonist’s life and controls each short story. Space also is two-faced. 
Although the episodes take place in a narrowly defined urban environment, 
glimpses of another world emerge from a cityscape that is familiar and rich in 
allusions. 

What was suggested in the original ten stories is now made more explicit. 
In the first Marcovaldo, the world’s duplicity was an intrinsic necessity; in the 
second Marcovaldo, the measuring of time and space emphasizes the impact of 
external constraints on internal motives, magnifies the labyrinthine quality of 
existence and exasperates the need for a way out. The nature/history dichotomy is 
more emphatically negated, as its two terms reveal their inescapable connection. 
Marcovaldo’s adventures acquire intensity, in a multilayered urban context 
which, more clearly than in the earlier collection, is both the impregnable 
fortress of the “real” and the necessary ground on which to plot an escape. 

The historical background in which poetic production takes place informs 
the text’s structural and thematic shifts in subtler ways than even Calvino 
suggested in his letter. The first Marcovaldo was the humorous undermining of 
an aristocratic literary tradition, where the city lay within a fantasy landscape of 


220 Angela M. Jeannet 


bountiful serenity called Nature. The second version heightens the urgency of the 
search for escape, as dysfunction becomes a widening phenomenon in economic, 
social and cultural terms, but ultimately the text also provides a thread out of the 
labyrinth, as literary metaphors of pastoral daydreaming give way to surreal 
happenings, then to the magic of writing. Where the original ten stories had 
reiterated a statement about the powerlessness of desire in the “miseria” of 
existence, and had regularly closed with the defeat of the protagonist, the theme 
now is a potentially successful escape. Two paradigmatic tales, in this regard, are 
“Tl coniglio velenoso” and “Il giardino dei gatti ostinati,” which illustrate the 
shift in perspective from 1954 to 1963. Now the city is riddled with hideouts and 
the text intentionally revalues poetic discourse, in its flexibility, playfulness and 
transformative power, as a tool for the enactement of that escape. 

If we look more closely at the twenty stories, we see a new pattern 
emerging (see Appendix). While the first three stories remain faithful to the early 
narrative triad of desire/obstacle/defeat, the added fourth tale, “La citta smarrita 
nella neve,” almost brings to fruition the escape fantasies found in its 
predecessors. The image of the city, “smarrita,” i.e., not lost but hidden by a 
snowfall, evokes for the first time a realm of fleeting and menaced freedom that 
only the quintessential city dweller can imagine. Silence and snow also introduce 
for the first time the metaphor of the white/blank sheet of paper (“un foglio 
bianco,” with its untranslatable ambiguity). 

The sixth tale develops two earlier and more discreet Marcovaldian themes: a 
sleep visited by visions, and the protagonist’s literal “flying” away from 
everyday reality. Then, “La fermata sbagliata,” number twelve of the new series, 
reiterates and intensifies the need for escape felt by the protagonist, an escape 
which he actively pursues by viewing films about exotic locales. The oneiric 
quality of his sailing away is conveyed by the darkness of the movie theatre, 
which contrasts on the one hand with the colorless fog that has washed out the 
city and erased the sharpness of lines and sensations, and on the other hand with 
the colorful “splendor” of the films. The theme of escape in flight becomes more 
concrete, as Marcovaldo actually boards a plane directed to faraway places.” The 
tales numbered thirteen, fourteen and fifteen play with a surrealistic motif, 
orchestrating it in various ways: “Dov’é pit azzurro il fiume” leans towards the 
fairy tale; “Luna e Gnac” revisits with nostalgia its earlier farewell to the 
illusions and marvelous lies of the idyll; and “La pioggia e le foglie” allows the 
protagonist to experience a near-metamorphosis (into a plant) and then a 
vicarious flight, a secular Assumption confirmed by the appearance of a rainbow. 

After two attempts to escape through consumerism fail, in “Marcovaldo al 


17 The “bateau ivre” metaphor looms in the background, among many echoes that haunt 
Marcovaldo’s blind search. As is often the case with Calvino, one could list a number of 
intertextual allusions in this tale about the hero’s journey toward the place of his desire. 
Calvino’s literary knowledge was truly encyclopedic. 


Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 221 


supermarket” and “Fumo, vento e bolle di sapone,” the eighteenth and nineteenth 
stories return to the theme of the discovery of a hidden city, the city that is 
present in its invisibility, a “negative” of the visible city, a mosaic of empty 
spaces: “S’aprivano larghe e interminabili le vie, vuote di macchine e deserte . . 
.” (‘La citta tutta per lui” Marcovaldo 113). The empty city of summer, that 
other city “intravista solo per un momento, o forse solamente sognata” 
(Marcovaldo 116), just as the city erased by snow, allows Marcovaldo a playful 
freedom: “percorreva le vie con zig-zag da farfalla” (Marcovaldo 115). In “Il 
giardino dei gatti ostinati,” the “countercity” has become as real as the city, its 
upside down double, where the protagonist comes close to another 
metamorphosis, this time into a cat, that icon of obstinacy and freedom. 
Marcovaldo in fact looks at the city “attraverso i tondi occhi d’un micio” 
(Marcovaldo 118). On the one hand, then, there is the “citta degli uomini,” “citta 
inabitabile,” “citta verticale,” “citt&é compressa”; on the other hand, there is the 
“citta dei gatti,” the “controcitta,” “una citté negativa,” the “citta di intercapedini, 
pozzi di luce, canali d’aerazione, passaggi carrabili, piazzole interne . . . una rete 
di canali secchi” (Marcovaldo 118), a hidden labyrinth. As the seasons pass 
swiftly, the cats slyly enforce a stalemate, at the heart of the technological 
wonder-city. “L’antico popolo dei gatti” (118) embodies the obstinacy without 
illusions that lies at the heart of Marcovaldo’s tenacious resistance and of 
Calvino’s writing. 

It is the function of the twentieth story to bring Marcovaldo’s odyssey to a 
close. 


4. Marcovaldo: A Definition 


An odyssey is a song of return. As the destruction of the “city of men” is 
literally effected by the “figli di Babbo Natale” (something is lost in the 
translation, i.e., the term ““Babbo,” in the English “Santa’s children”) and as their 
happy destructiveness is swiftly coopted by a consumption-crazed socioeconomic 
system, Marcovaldo goes back into the streets. He loses himself among the 
crowds. The narrative thread that is his essence unravels and goes into a frenzy of 
detailed drawing, which always announces a closure, however ambiguous, in 
Calvino’s writing.!® In the chaos of the urban scene, with its artificial lights and 
artificial night, an exquisitely familiar, yet portentous, detail emerges: the open 
fire of the roasted chestnut vendor, a “tondo fornello nero ardente,” which 
becomes the magic fire of a sorceress. A lyrical mode, subdued but 
unmistakable, has materialized.!9 The round, dark, but red-hot crucible evokes 


18 As examples of this Calvinian technique, one might see the endings of “La formica 
argentina” in J racconti, Il cavaliere inesistente, and Il barone rampante. 
19 The use and placement of adjectives are important signs of the text’s shifting towards a 


222 Angela M. Jeannet 


the “buie misteriose montagne” glimpsed at the beginning of the story. Thus the 
world in its multiplicity is reduced to a symbiotic double image, as the 
encompassing gaze recedes with vertiginous speed. Whose perspective is the one 
for which “la citta sembrava pili piccola, raccolta in un’ampolla luminosa, 
sepolta nel cuore buio d’un bosco, tra i tronchi centenari dei castagni e un 
infinito manto di neve” (Marcovaldo 130)? The city is the alembic of the 
alchemist, who contemplates in it the desired metamorphoses. Marcovaldo’s eye 
has ultimately been absorbed by the eye of the narrator. 

A spider’s stratagem is engineered under our very noses. The thread of 
narration busily follows the narrator’s fantasy and fills the page with dark print. 
Onomatopeia and alliteration are used to evoke characters out of ancient fables 
like the wolf and the hare. The narration becomes pure pleasure, a light 
symphony of primary colors: black, white, red, then white on white, black on 
black, separated by an impassable line. That line, and the miracle of suspended 
flight, prevent both chaos and total closure. 

The thread now quickly sketches the animated cartoon of a chase sequence, 
deadly and playful in its exact grace of movement and gesture. The disappearance 
of the pursued, announced by the hare’s invisibility and by the acceleration of the 
question marks, accomplishes the sleight-of-hand performed by the text: “E qua? 
é 14? no, é un po’ pit in 1a” (Marcovaldo 139). The metamorphosis of the 
character allows character and narrator to fuse and then escape. The stress placed 
on the chromatic factor disguises the trick enacted, as the expanse of snow and 
the empty page alone remain, testifying in their whiteness/blankness to the 
ambiguous success of writing. 

The old model has indeed been erased. The term macrotext has become 
irrelevant to a definition of the new text. This text uses the splintered elements 
of its own past to play a different game, as it places them in new configurations 
and constricts them within deterministic grids. It tests more stringently the 
options for an escape, while remaining a mobile structure, a Calder-like artifact. 
Building on the model of the first collection, where a search for the idyll 
inevitably led to comical disappointment, “senza lasciare margini di fuga e di 
consolazione” (Ferretti 43), this set of episodes progressively introduces new 
themes. One theme is that of the formalized game, in which tassels, chips, or 
pieces are movable and subject to different interpretations depending on their 
placement in a context. The other theme is that of the enactment of escape, as 
vicarious “flights” less and less frequently conclude with a “fall” back into 
“reality.” This time the escape attempts are dynamic. In “Un sabato di sole, 
sabbia e sonno,” Marcovaldo is poised in the air, surveying the teeming beach 





poetic tone and level of writing, as one can see in “La villeggiatura in panchina” and “Luna e 
Gnac,” two of the most poetic of Calvino’s short stories. Calvino insisted on his preoccupation 
with stylistic factors in the interview with Corti: “Credo che la prosa richieda un investimento 
di tutte le proprie risorse verbali, tal quale come la poesia” (“Intervista” 49). 


a I I a i a a I, I SN I a 


Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 223 


scene beneath him. In “La fermata sbagliata,” he is off on an actual journey, 
only partly unintended. Through trial and error, the “invisible” face of the city 
fully emerges. Though surreality and consumerism are unmasked as erroneous 
paths to escape, as the pastoral dream had been, the text has opened a gap in the 
wall of necessity. A way out is revealed to the protagonist’s quest, even though 
success remains uncertain. The new metaphor is the chase fraught with danger, 
while writing and fantasy are offered as a possible salvation in this narrative 
“challenge to the labyrinth.” The suspense of the chase points to the 
impossibility of a final closure, but writing is proposed as the thread leading out 
of the maze towards an ever-menaced freedom. A new “ameno inganno” for a 
besieged humanity may have been found. 


5. Between Modern and Postmodern 


How does the discourse of postmodernism illuminate our reading of the 1963 
Marcovaldo? 

No matter which definition of postmodernism one selects,2° certain 
constants are part of it. First of all, there is the ambiguity of the postmodern 
historical positioning. As Huyssen writes, “As the word ‘postmodernism’ 
already indicates, what is at stake is a constant, even obsessive, negotiation with 
the terms of the modern itself” (x). Then, while self-reflexivity is variously 
defined either as a modern or a postmodern posture, a new way of relating to the 
past is generally ascribed to the postmodern sensibility. In the postmodern 
perspective, the past is not certainty of origins, but occasion for reminiscence, a 
spectacle of ruins, a storehouse yielding the fragments which are endlessly re- 
ordered in repetitive narratives. On the other hand, the future holds no promise of 
resolution. The ground of conventions has shifted, becoming an unsafe basis for 
any durable structure, what in Horace’s words was “monumentum aere 
perennius” (Opera 100). Character representation has gone from a subjective to a 
functional mode, having been compromised by the crisis of the self and the 
problematical legitimation of knowledge. It follows that the postmodern can 
only revisit the past without innocence, disbelieving all social constructs, of 
which literature is one, and using them in ways necessarily playful and ironic. 


20 The material available on the subject of postmodemism is overwhelming in its abundance 
and diversity of focus. In addition to the works mentioned elsewhere in this article, I have relied, 
for the concepts which relate more directly to my topic, on Hassan’s view of postmodern 
literature as a response to apocalypse, on Lyotard’s discussion of the crisis of knowledge and 
the functions of narrative, and on Huyssen’s stimulating overview of the evolution of 
postmodemism in the sixties and seventies, for which see “Part 3, Toward the Postmodern” of 
his After the Great Divide. The volume edited by Kaplan includes Jameson’s “Postmodernism 
and the Consumer Society” (Kaplan 13-29), which explores postmodemism in the context of 
mass culture and political thought. 


224 Angela M. Jeannet 


Finally, the postmodern operation is dependent on the presence of an audience, 
preferably endowed with a shared cultural and textual competence, but naive 
nonetheless. 

Calvino’s formation took place within Modernism first, and then within the 
energizing season of Neorealism. Soon, however, other issues became of 
primary concern to him. His “magic realism” led him toward the fantastic 
exploration of incompleteness with /I visconte dimezzato and to the creation of a 
vehicle, Marcovaldo, for his vision of estrangement. The stories of the first 
Marcovaldo cycle spoke of loss of innocence and exile. They incorporated 
suggestions from the artifacts of mass culture, transcoded literary traditions and 
evoked an implicit reader as ambiguous as the narrator/character dyad. The 
postmodernity of the second Marcovaldo hinges on the transformation of the 
mediating character, from a disguised poet-laborer with anarchic components into 
a participant in a plot to escape. Between the two Marcovaldos, we must 
remember, Calvino had written /] barone rampante, whose playfulness and 
energy disguised a somber coming to awareness: “gli ideali della giovinezza, i 
lumi, le speranze del nostro secolo decimottavo, tutto é cenere” (II barone 
rampante 283). 

There is a sentence in an article written by Calvino in 1959 that indicates 
his entering a new phase: “Questi sono tempi poco propizi alle grandi 
spiegazioni del mondo come ai grandi romanzi” (“I racconti che non ho scritto” 
12). Refusing the various solutions proposed by the contemporary literary scene, 
Calvino opted for a fantasy harnessed by rational structures: “é stato il bisogno 
d’accentuare l’elemento razionale e volontario del racconto, |’ordine, la geometria 
a spingermi verso la fiaba” ("I racconti che non ho scritto” 12). In 1963, the 
unitary Marcovaldo cycle breaks up. The second Marcovaldo finds its coherence 
in its being an open network where stories threatened by the void organize in 
arbitrary and rigorous constellations. The discovery of gaps in what is apparently 
whole — a Calvinian leitmotiv — accentuates the nexus of visible and 
invisible. Literature is a field of potentialities, where games of probability are 
played. The call to a specific readership stresses the importance of the audience, 
an audience at the same time totally committed and naive, made up of children or 
child-like readers, the most demanding and rewarding of audiences. 

Space will allow only a few observations about the relationship between 
Marcovaldo and later texts. The themes and techniques tested in Marcovaldo, as 
well as its acknowledgement of a new cultural context requiring different ways of 
perceiving, find their fruition in three groups of works, at three recognizable 
moments in Calvino’s production. 

The major works of the later sixties, Le cosmicomiche and Ti con zero, 
remain in many ways close to Marcovaldo, not only because of the presence of a 
mediating character, Qfwfq, with his specularly arranged name, but also because 











Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 225 


the themes of estrangement and obstinate search dominate within a vastly 
expanded grid of the time/space coordinates.”! The inexhaustible resources of 
storytelling and writing are called upon to continue Marcovaldo’s project. 

It is not surprising that Calvino would attain fame in the English-speaking 
world with Se una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore, as the postmodern discourse 
was becoming a dominant feature of North-American creative and critical life. Se 
una notte has been called “a novel that obstreperously proclaims its participation 
in the postmodern aesthetics of simulation, textual spectacle, masquerade and self 
reflexive excess” (de Lauretis, Calvino Revisited 131). In reality, starting with 
the 1969 publication of Tarocchi (Parma, FMR) until 1979, Calvino had 
consciously operated in the postmodern mode. He used his talent for masterful 
bricolage, game playing and grid constructing, in order to move back and forth 
from creative pleasure to tongue-in-cheek insistence on quotation. What links the 
phase of II castello dei destini incrociati and Le citta invisibili to Marcovaldo is 
the self-referentiality of the text, its emphasis on multimedia narratives, its 
structuring strategies, and — most importantly — the metaphor of the “invisible 
city.” The theme of invisibility embodies the writer’s concern with “seeing 
double,” as he attempts to embrace at the same time the surface of things and the 
depth that lies underneath. 

However, something dry and sterile, like preciosity, threatened the Calvinian 
text. If one accepts E. Ann Kaplan’s distinction between a “utopian” and a 
“commercial” or “‘coopted” postmodernism, where the latter is a fashionable trend 
and the former revalues the body and rejects a binary world view, then the 1969- 
1979 Calvinian season, with its extraordinary outcomes, wavered between the 
two. It hesitated between virtuosity, “relishing . . . the eternal recurrence of déja- 
vu” (Huyssen 182), and the search for a way to prove the intelligibility of chaos. 
Calvino’s bricolage was in some ways misleading, and Calvino himself later 
complained about the reductionist readings he had fostered ( “La coda di 
Minosse,” La repubblica [10 marzo 1983]:18), as the formal components of his 
texts were painstakingly dissected by critics. In the Calvinian universe, the body, 
physical immanence, and the execution of art still matter. Writing is not a 
simulation model developed by a computer, detached from actualization in 
history. While building on the intervening experiences, Palomar, Collezione di 
sabbia and the posthumous publications return toward Marcovaldo’s project, the 
exploration of our world’s boundaries, and to “la letteratura come funzione 
esistenziale . .. come reazione al peso di vivere . . . come ricerca di conoscenza” 


21 One has only to reread “Tutto in un punto” (Le cosmicomiche 53-60), where estrangement is 

represented by the contradictory pulls of nostalgia, which is also the gravitational force, and 
cosmic energy, and which causes expansion and exile; or, the chases in T con zero 

(“L’ inseguimento” and “II guidatore nottumo” 121-48) infinitely enacted but suspended; and the 
retelling of the story of “Il conte di Montecristo” (T con zero 149-64), where the effort to 

understand one’s prison corresponds exactly to finding the means to escape it. 


226 Angela M. Jeannet 


(Lezioni americane 28), a painstaking but playful search. Palomar’s title, its 
textual plan and the illustration on the jacket reassert the importance Calvino 
placed on paratextual elements. Mr. Palomar, the new mediator, again insists on 
calling upon his senses, dulled and imperfect as they may be, as well as on his 
reasoning powers, to test the boundaries of his situation. The eye of an older and 
socially more “respectable” Marcovaldo “‘intercetta segnali fuori d’ogni codice,” 
as he focuses his attention “solo sulle cose che gli capitano sotto gli occhi nella 
vita quotidiana” (blurb on book jacket).2* The writing of Mr. Palomar’s 
experience is again delegated to an extradiegetic narrator, silence has become one 
of his tools, and death is a ruse “per vedere come va il mondo senza di lui” 
(Palomar 121). Leopardi, Svevo, Pirandello and Montale preside over Palomar’s 
postmodern posture and his attempt at self-effacement. Ultimately, it is again 
through writing that the capture of each instant, in another “hare and wolf” game 
with space and time, and the supreme escape, the character’s disappearance, are 
effected (Palomar 123-28). 

To sum up, Italo Calvino’s pen had intercepted early, as if it were the 
sensitive point of a seismograph, the changes in its sociocultural environment. 
However, his awareness of a “crisis of tools” and the wider crisis of his culture 
did not induce a postmodern indifference in him. The text’s pleasure and its 
worth, for Calvino, had to do with the interpenetration of style and ethics. 
Language and the senses continued to interact, in a stubborn and spare dialogue, 
in spite of the collapse of the old order. Calvino’s characters had the task of 
chronicling the ongoing search for a new contact with the “real,” however 
uncertain. With Marcovaldo, Calvino asserted what he was to repeat until his 
own disappearance, that the concerted obstinacy of character, narrator and reader is 
rewarded by the seemingly infinite possibilities of narrative play. 


Franklin and Marshall College 


22 Fora parallel statement about the writer’s determination to limit himself to the observation 
of the multiplicity of the world’s objects, see also “The Written and Unwritten Word” 39. 





Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 


221 


Appendix 
Plans of the Two Marcovaldo Cycles 


I racconti (1958) 


1. Funghi in citté (1952) 

2. Il piccione comunale (1952) 

3. La pietanziera (1952) 

4. Lacura delle vespe (1953) 

5. Il bosco sull’autostrada (1953) 

6. L’aria buona (1953) 

7. Il coniglio velenoso (1954) 

8. Un viaggio con le mucche (1954) 
9. La panchina (1955) 

10. Luna e Gnac (1956) 


* 


Marcovaldo 
ovvero Le stagioni in citta (1963) 
1. (1) Funghi in citt4* 
2. (9) La villeggiatura in panchina 


3. (2) Il piccione comunale 
4. + Lacitt4 smarrita nella neve** 


5. (4) La cura delle vespe 
6. + Un sabato di sole sabbia e sonno 


7. (3) La pietanziera 

8. (5) Il bosco sull’autostrada 

9. (6) L’aria buona 

10.(8) Un viaggio con le mucche 
11.(7) Il coniglio velenoso 

12. + La fermata sbagliata 

13. + Dov’é pit azzurro il fiume 
14.(10) Luna e Gnac 

15. + La pioggia e le foglie 

16. + Marcovaldo al supermercato 
17. + Fumo, vento e bolle di sapone 
18. + La citté tutta per lui 

19. + Il giardino dei gatti ostinati 
20. + I figli di Babbo Natale 


The number in parentheses indicates the earlier position in the collection. 


** The “+” sign indicates an addition to the earlier collection. 


Works Cited 


Ahern, John. “Out of Montale’s Cavern: A Reading of Calvino’s Gli amori difficili. 
Modern Language Studies 12.1 (1982): 3-15. 
Alinovi, Francesca. “‘Natura’ impossibile del postmoderno.” JI verri 1-2 (1984): 


110-21. 


Asor Rosa, Alberto, ed. Letteratura italiana. Vol. 1. Il letterato e le istituzioni. 


Torino: Einaudi, 1982. 


Barilli, Renato. La barriera del naturalismo. Studi sulla 
contemporanea. Milano: Mursia, 1970. 


narrativa italiana 


228 Angela M. Jeannet 


Calvino, Italo. [I sentiero dei nidi di ragno. Torino: Einaudi, 1947 (The Path to the 
Nests of Spiders. Boston: Beacon, 1957). 

. Il barone rampante. Torino: Einaudi, 1957. (The Baron in the Trees. New 
York: Random House, 1959). 

. I racconti. Torino: Einaudi, 1958 (1983 ed.). 

. “I racconti che non ho scritto.” Marsia (January-April 1959): 11-13. 

. Il cavaliere inesistente. Torino: Einaudi, 1959. (The Non-existent Knight. 
New York: Random, 1962). 

. Marcovaldo ovvero le stagioni in citta. Libri per l’infanzia e la gioventi. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1963. 

. Le cosmicomiche. Torino: Einaudi, 1965. (Cosmicomics. New York: 
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1968). 

. Marcovaldo ovvero le stagioni in citta. Letture per la scuola media. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1966. 

. Marcovaldo ovvero le stagioni in citta. Coralli. Torino: Einaudi, 1969. 

. Tarocchi. Parma: FMR, 1969. (Tarots. New York: Rizzoli, 1986.) 

. Marcovaldo ovvero le stagioni in citta. Nuovi Coralli. Torino: Einaudi, 
1973. 

. Marcovaldo or The seasons in the City. New York: Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich, 1983. 

. Ti con zero. Torino: Einaudi, 1967. (t-zero. New York: Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich, 1969). 

. Se una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore. Torino: Einaudi, 1979. (Uf ona 
Winter's Night a Traveler. New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1981.) 

. Una pietra sopra. Torino: Einaudi, 1980. 

. Palomar. Torino: Einaudi, 1983. (Mr. Palomar. New York: Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich, 1985). 

. “La coda di Minosse.” La repubblica. (10 marzo 1983): 18. 

. “The Written and Unwritten Word.” New York Review of Books 12 (1983): 
38-39. 

. Collezione di sabbia. Milano: Garzanti, 1984. 

. Lezioni americane. Sei proposte per il prossimo millennio. Milano: 
Garzanti, 1988 (Six Memos for the Next Millennium. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
1988). 

Collodi (Lorenzini), Carlo. Pinocchio [sic]. Ed. Ferdinando Tempesti. Milano: 
Feltrinelli, 1972. 
Corti, Maria. “Intervista. Italo Calvino.” Autografo 2.6 (1985): 47-53. 

. “Un modello per tre testi: le tre ‘Panchine’ di Italo Calvino.” In “Trittico 
per Calvino.” Jl viaggio testuale. Torino: Einaudi, 1978. 

. “Nel laboratorio di Italo Calvino (da lettere inedite).” Strumenti critici 5.2 
(1990): 137-46. 

. “Testi o macrotesto? I racconti di Marcovaldo.” In “Trittico per Calvino.” J/ 
viaggio testuale. Torino: Einaudi, 1978. 

. “Testi o macrotesto? I racconti di Marcovaldo di I. Calvino.” Strumenti 
critici 9 (1975):182-97. 

De Federicis, Lidia. Italo Calvino e La giornata d'uno scrutatore. Torino: Loescher, 
1989. 














Escape from the Labyrinth: Calvino’ s Marcovaldo 229 


de Lauretis, Teresa. “Reading the [Post] Modern Text: If on a Winter’s Night a 
Traveler.” Calvino Rivisited. Ed. Franco Ricci. Toronto: Dovehouse, 1989. 131- 
45. 

Falaschi, Giovanni. “Ritratti critici di contemporanei: Italo Calvino.” Belfagor 27.5 
(September 1972): 530-58. 

Ferretti, Gian Carlo. Le capre di Bikini. Calvino giornalista e saggista 1945-1985. 
Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1989. 

Guglielmi, Angelo. “Una ‘sfida’ senza avversari.” [1 menabé 6 (1963): 259-67. 

Hassan, Ihab. The Dismemberment of Orpheus: Toward a Postmodern Literature. New 
York: Oxford U P, 1971. 

Horace. Q. Horati Flacci Opera. Ed. S. Borzs4k. II, 30. Leipzig: Teubner, 1984. 

Hutcheon, Linda. A Poetics of Postmodernism: History, Theory, Fiction. New York: 
Routledge, 1988. 

Huyssen, Andreas. After the Great Divide: Modernism, Mass Culture, 
Postmodernism. Bloomington: Indiana U P, 1986. 

Jeannet, Angela M. “Requiem for the Idyll: Italo Calvino’s First Marcovaldo’s 
Stories.” Stanford Italian Review 10.2 (1992; forthcoming). 

Kaplan, E. Ann, ed. Postmodernism and Its Discontents. London: Verso, 1988. 

Lyotard, Jean-Francois. La Condition postmoderne. Rapport sur le savoir. Paris: 
Minuit, 1979. (The Postmodern Condition. Minneapoli: U Minnesota P, 1984). 

Ricci, Franco, ed. Calvino Revisited. Toronto: Dovehouse, 1989. 

. Difficult Games. A Reading of I racconti by Italo Calvino. Waterloo, 

Ontario: Wilfrid Laurier U P, 1990. 

Suleiman, Susan. Subversive Intent: Gender, Politics, and the Avant-Garde. 
Cambridge: Harvard U P, 1990. 


Robert Dombroski 
Ross Miller 


Postmodern Rhetoric: 
Calvino’s Le citta invisibili and Architecture’ 





The concept of a “postmodern” moment in contemporary cultural history came 
into being in the middle 1970s across various artistic fields and intellectual 
disciplines which paralleled a new cognitive orientation in the human sciences. 
Jean-Francois Lyotard was the first to address the problem systematically and it 
is from his well known essay La Condition postmoderne (1979) that the issues 
we discuss below derive. According to Lyotard, there were once “grands récits,” 
absolute truths, and more or less standardized fields of knowledge and modes of 
production. But, beginning from the middle of the 1950s, scientific knowledge 
has become one among many discourses. Contemporary society is characterized 
by a multiplicity of languages, each in itself “true”: 


The principle of a universal metalanguage is replaced by the principle of a plurality 
of formal and axiomatic systems capable of arguing the truth of denotative 
statements; these systems are described by a metalanguage that is universal but not 
consistent. What used to pass as paradox, and even paralogism, in the knowledge of 
classical and modern science can, in certain of these systems, acquire a new force of 
conviction and win the acceptance of the community of experts. 

(Lyotard 43-44) 


This new world of pragmatic performativity heightens our sense of difference, 
strengthening our capacity to tolerate the viewpoint of the other. We therefore 
are awakened from the nightmare of Modernity, liberated from manipulative 
reason and from the fetishes of totality, made ready to enter the space of 
heterogeneity. 

The concrete, pluralistic realities of Western societies are living proof that 
the heterogeneity of which Lyotard speaks is not an illusion. However, in the 
area of cultural production, heterogeneity’s presence is more abstract than 
concrete, distinguished by the labels that confirm originality in the marketplace 
of culture. Paradoxically, cultural products are the same in that they meet the 


* An Italian version of this essay was read at the international conference held in 1990 in Siena 
on “1960-1990: le teorie letterarie, il dibattito metodologico e il conflitto delle poetiche,” and 
will appear in the Conference’s proceedings to be published by Franco Angeli Editore. 





Postmodern Rhetoric: Calvino’ s Le citta invisibili and Architecture 231 


demands of being different, that is, of being “produced” for the market of 
diversity. In this sense, heterogeneity, as envisaged by Lyotard and by almost all 
the theoreticians of postmodernism, is not a concept that actually refers to a 
reality of different things; it is not a universal in the classical sense that includes 
all the particulars of a given species. Instead, heterogeneity is an image of itself, 
the image of an image, appearance become reality, simulacra, hyperreality, etc. 
So, it is not merely a question of replacing demoted “metanarratives” with a 
plurality of “small narratives,” each having its own force of conviction. If “small 
narratives” acquire value only by virtue of their being signs of plurality, they too 
then constitute a metanarrative, but one that is notably different from traditional 
metanarratives in that it does not exclude, but includes and tolerates everything, 
even its antithesis: the absolute, the homogeneous, which it neutralizes, as one 
among other discourses, all potentially commodifiable. 

Yet, the concern that postmodern culture displays toward social and 
individual differences, the emphasis it places on the difficulty of human 
communication and, generally, on the complexity of culture, cannot be ignored. 
There is no doubt that the principle of plurality represents an enormous gain 
with respect to universal metalanguages which tended to exclude racial, class and 
sexual differences. But at the same time it must be acknowledged that such 
metanarratives as Marxism and Freudianism resist the kind of unilateral 
characterization that postmodern thought enjoys giving them. The works of 
Benjamin, Gramsci and Althusser demonstrate that Marxism can be as “open” 
and subtle as one wants; not to speak of the development, since Freud, of the 
notion of the unconscious. We agree with David Harvey that the modern 
consciousness which postmodernity opposes has been ideologically reconstructed 
to appear much more resistant and insensitive to difference than it actually was. 
We also maintain that the relation of the modern to the postmodern is one of 
continuity as well as diversity, and that what is normally referred to as 
“postmodern” is a hypervalorization of the contingent and disruptive side of the 
modernist paradigm: the “sogno angoscioso” described by Pirandello in an 1893 
essay as the waving of “mille bandiere, in cui le parti avversarie si sian confuse e 
mischiate, [lottando] ognuno .. . per la sua difesa, contro all’amico e contro al 
nemico” (Saggi 906). This is the same awareness that later Yeats captures in the 
well known verse, “Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;/ Mere anarchy is 
loosed upon the world” (qtd. Harvey 11). 

What postmodernity renounces in Modernism is the impulse toward unity 
and the recomposition of the ephemeral and fragmentary within the eternal and 
inalterable space of art. To call again on Pirandello: “Sorgera forse anche adesso 
il genio, che stendendo |’anima alla tempesta che appressa, al mare che dilaghera 
rompendo ogni argine e ingojando le rovine, creera il libro unico, secolare, come 
in altri tempi é avvenuto” (Saggi 906). Postmodern theory refutes all forms of 
recomposition and thus deprives the chaotic of its status as a term in the 
conflict; it is then raised to the level of a metaphysics that celebrates the 


252 Robert Dombroski and Ross Miller 


relativity of all things, the cacophony of voices, and the activities of 
dissimulation, pretence, and fetishism. Thus, although the postmodern moment 
recognizes the authenticity of the other, of difference, and of the fragment, it 
prevents this authenticity from acquiring “a new force of conviction,” from 
acceding to the status of “truth.” As Harvey puts it very well, the real 
authenticity of difference is “[ghettoized] . . . within an opaque otherness, the 
specificity of this or that language game. It therefore disempowers those voices 
(of women, ethnic and racial minorities, colonized peoples, the unemployed, 
youth, etc.) in a world of lop-sided power relations” (117). 

Following Terry Eagleton, we may look at postmodernism’s 
hypostatization of difference as a final stage of the Left’s response to the radical 
aestheticizing of early modernism, namely, as an attack on ideology in the name 
of human creative power which resists reification and commodification by the 
capitalist mode of production. (Eagleton 369-70). It is this development of 
modernist revolt, still linked, however tenuously, to the liberal-humanist notion 
of individuality and subject autonomy, which politically meets defeat at the 
hands of the modernist Right’s fascistic regrounding of the ego in Tradition and 
in the blood and transcendent material body of the Nation. The rehabilitation of 
free-market capitalism in the war’s aftermath sets a very different kind of stage 
onto which the revolutionary impetus will reemerge from the ashes of history, 
one capable of accommodating, integrating and legitimizing a host of different 
artistic and literary directives. 

In Italy as elsewhere we are at the beginning of a radical transformation in 
the economic and social structures of society. The intensification of industrial 
production geared toward consumption and the creation of a cultural marketplace 
regulated by the needs of technology draw the previously excluded literary 
intellectual, whether avant-garde or traditional, into a work force to be recruited 
and employed by the culture industry. Cultural creation and intellectual work 
becomes, strictly speaking, goods, or services, to be bought and sold for profit 
in a society where economic, political, and cultural power are one. There is a 
whole literature that registers the cognitive effects of such a transition, which we 
might refer to as high modernism or perhaps more accurately as a modernism 
which, although aware of the liability of any excessive valorization of the 
artifice, is unwilling to abandon the normative pleasure of the grands récits. The 
Italian fifties display this turn most powerfully in the mature work of Carlo 
Emilio Gadda and in the early narratives of Antonio Pizzuto. In Gadda, parody 
helps a retreat in defense of the devalued norm; it provides a kind of comic (albeit 
painful) release; while in Pizzuto we get the impression that from the present 
there is neither defense nor release, that the present invests and penetrates the 
entire fabric of our daily existence to the degree that our by now beleaguered 
individuality — that concrete “difference” which revolutionary modernisn 
surrendered to fascism, has no space whatsoever. What was once the intimacy of 
our private world, on account of the economic urgency of commodity production 


Postmodern Rhetoric: Calvino’ s Le citta invisibili and Architecture 233 


and the expansion of advertising technique, becomes a sense of hazard mitigated 
by nostalgic revisiting. Once the norm is forgotten or effaced and the hazard 
removed, we have entered into the space of the postmodern. 

It is not hard to understand why what are generally viewed as the properties 
of the postmodern — its fetishism of style and surface, its depthlessness or two- 
dimensionality, its hedonistic investment in technique, its valorization of the 
multivalent and the hybrid, its reification of the signifier, etc. — can be, as 
Eagleton remarks, either defended as subversive of metaphysical truth claims and 
epistemological hierarchy, or debunked as complicit with consumerism’s 
philistine rationale. The ambiguity, however, as Eagleton argues, derives much 
less from artistic intent as from the logic of the commodity itself. What point is 
there in taking a stand for or against postmodernism, if postmodern cultural 
production can be at once “radical and conservative, iconoclastic and 
incorporated”? (Eagleton 373). Its equivocal structure and stylistic features mirror 
“the transgressive, promiscuous, polymorphous” nature of the commodity: “its 
self-expansiveness, its levelling passion to exchange with another of its kind” 
(374). In other words, the commodification of art spells the ruin of its distinctive 
identity, “craftily conserving the difference of use value but only by dint of 
sublating it into that sameness-in-difference which for Walter Benjamin was 
fashion” (374). 

We can now see why a poetics of postmodernism may be of negligible 
critical usefulness. What is to be gained, for example, in rehearsing, as Linda 
Hutcheon does, the epistemological grounds of historiographic metafiction when 
its object, the forms and contents of the past rethought as human constructs, is 
tacitly established as the starting point of sustained apology? The postmodern 
concern for the multiplicity and relativity of truths puts us at a double 
disadvantage with respect to the object of inquiry. Not only are we unable to go 
Outside its rambling parameters, but, given the uncertain nature of its cultural 
physiognomy, we are at odds in determining which of its features is the crucial 
term of its identity. We could, following Jameson, engage in a kind of 
“cognitive mapping” which, however, would allow only to defer, dialectically, 
our answer to a time (unimaginable) when we are in a position to understand 
ourselves as individual and collective subjects Jameson 146), or we could move 
on to the political offensive, behind Said and Eagleton, and resist pluralistic 
hegemony by critiquing the legitimizing impulse of the kind of postmodern 
narratives offered by such diverse, yet complementary, voices as Lyotard and 
Baudrillard. Who benefits from the postmodern decentering of the subject and the 
abandonment of truth claims? And why are small narratives better than big ones? 
The obvious answer of who benefits does not get us off our intellectual 
treadmill, for any critique of the cultural politics of pluralism, any explanation 
of the particular hegemonic practices of late capitalism, is grist for the mill of 
current intellectual, moral, and philosophical consent. As it stands now, the 
hegemonic strategies of liberal pluralism opt for an ever growing extension of 


234 Robert Dombroski and Ross Miller 


the range of ideological commerce. How then do we approach the problematics 
of postmodernism? 

In a Poetics of Postmodernism, Linda Hutcheon argues that the dominant 
feature of postmodern literature is the blurring of boundaries between history and 
fiction. She acknowledges, nevertheless, that such a crossing of boundaries has 
always been a general feature of literature, but that with postmodernism such a 
blurring is overt because the writer truly “acknowledges the limits and powers of 
‘reporting’ or writing of the past” (117). According to Hutcheon, postmodernism 
forces us to accept the “inevitable textuality” of historical knowledge, its value 
and limitations; she cites in support of her argument, among other works, Italo 
Calvino’s Le citta invisibili. 

It would be hard to find a more paradigmatic text to illustrate the 
postmodern perspective in literature. Le citta invisibili contains all of the 
ingredients essential to portraying what Lyotard calls the condition of knowledge 
in our time: reality as an infinity of interpretations to be found in a game of 
signs — self-legitimizing seductive language games. It is perhaps not accidental 
that the novel takes as its immediate referent the architectural image of cities, 
cities with names that are differentiated according to their architecture and the 
social practices which it facilitates. It matters less that Calvino’s cities are 
mental constructs and therefore “invisible” than that they create a fascination 
with the “discoveries” they engender: particularly Marco’s discovery of new 
languages containing coherent meanings about real things. Calvino’s cities are 
no doubt a metaphor for literature; they are the inner landscapes of desire and 
fantasy at the same time they are concretized in material structures and endowed 
with meanings. Their meanings are striking but uncertain. For the Great Khan, 
although capable of deciphering the signs, can never know Marco’s purpose in 
communicating them. The only thing he can be sure of is their emblematic 
power, a self-generating force which, fueled by facts, adds meaning on to 
meaning. 

If we approach Le cittd invisibili as a meta-fictional game of signification, 
which no doubt is being played out in the text, we must inevitably equate the 
game’s language with the novel’s message and agree with Hutcheon who, 
following Musarra (1986,1431), sees the novel as a discourse on textuality. But 
what if we were to regard textuality itself as a language which Calvino makes 
use of, a local cultural idiom that he must adopt lest his message fall on deaf 
ears? Then the game of signification becomes a function, rather than a telos. At 
the same time it conveys the postmodern condition whose limits it defines. 

Marco forces polymorphous architectural worlds into limited gestural and 
verbal codes because he has no other vehicle available; he transforms the cities 
he has visited into verbal signs because he cannot carry them back to Kublai 
Khan, save in the form of traces (objects acquired, mementos). And if it is true 
that he throws into question the authority of his reportage, his doing so does not 
dispute the real, objective complexity of the objects of his knowledge. The 





Postmodern Rhetoric: Calvino’ s Le citta invisibili and Architecture 235 


experience he reports to Kublai Khan — the experience of the kind of imaginary 
worlds we find in literary texts — is not his subjective experience of another 
text. Rather it is that of the thing itself, which, in order to be communicated, 
has to enter into a collective mode of discourse. The discourse is not the thing, 
although the thing, in order to retain its status as a sign, cannot be separated 
from it: 


Marco Polo descrive un ponte, pietra per pietra. 
— Ma qual é la pietra che sostiene il ponte? — chiede Kublai Kan. 
— Il ponte non é sostenuto da questa o quella pietra, risponde Marco, ma dalla linea 
dell’arco che esse formano.— 
Kublai Kan rimane silenzioso, riflettendo. Poi soggiunge: 
— Perché mi parli delle pietre? E solo dell’arco che m’importa.— 
Polo risponde: 
— Senza pietre non c’é arco. — 
(Le citta invisibili 89) 


Hence the sense of history that would appear lost in the combinations and 
relationships of the game of signification is forcefully reinstated. The universal 
value of the concept of “arch” consists not in its generality but, like the concepts 
of “need,” “labor” and “production” in its specific referentiality. Marco does not 
create the bridge in his mind, but rather he remembers it as a materially 
verifiable fact that came into being through a process having the status of an 
event. That Marco, historian of his own travels, cannot disengage the fact from 
his own experience of it and the event from the reconstruction it undergoes in his 
mind does not mean that the bridge has no independent existence outside his 
memory. And yet, at the same time, “Bridgeness” is not a metaphysical 
guarantee, but instead a practical construct with which Marco communicates a 
thing of concern to his interlocutor. 

Through Marco’s descriptive travelogue and philosophical debate, Calvino 
addresses human values and problems from a postmodern perspective. His novel 
is about the responsibilities of imaginative literature and by extension about art 
in general. One of its essential messages involves the laws that govern 
experience in relation to character and environment. The space of Khan’s empire, 
like literature itself, contains many different and mutually exclusive worlds; 
within the same space exist side by side incompatible ways of thinking and 
feeling. Each of these orders exists separately within its own linguistic 
dimension. Together they form a collage of discontinuous and inconsistent 
entities, each possessing an exotic name and defined by a complex of surrealistic 
images. There appears to be no pattern that connects them, save that they are all 
sites of human need. To learn about these different worlds will give new 
meaning to Kublai Khan’s life and will challenge him to understand and combat 
the forces of evil in his domain. The process is one of enlightenment by means 
of enchantment; its purpose is to make the emperor see one city in terms of 


236 Robert Dombroski and Ross Miller 


another, to confront unfamiliarity and the complexity of existence through artful 
construction and reportage. Each description is a tale of difference, each world a 
small narrative which invariably has to be undercut and reunited into a 
perspective or vision. 

Marco’s imaginary worlds are really in some way his native Venice, the 
only historically and geographically real site that is not described for fear that, by 
fixing it in words, it will be lost altogether. Better to lose it little by little 
through the continuous foregrounding of otherness. Calvino’s postmodern space 
of otherness, although governed by the rules of the game of signification, 
contains signpost warnings that its reality is much more than an exercise in 
immanentist thought. Through fable, Calvino has us face the inevitability of 
social change. These worlds have come into being because of human agency, 
they all presuppose the application of human will, hence they are all the 
products of political action. The fundamental thing that the emperor must 
understand is that there is no one explanation, no center to his empire of cities, 
no one fixed and accepted authority, no hierarchies, even though his authority 
and his hierarchies exist. 

Marco’s reportage generates a spiral of questioning and differential relations 
that lead inevitably to the infernal city, to the nihilism that is the last landing 
place in the mind’s journey. The final question is how we escape suffering the 
effects of the infernal city. Calvino has used the rhetoric of fable to reproduce the 
logic of postmodernism; he has mapped out a world of diversity, of small 
narrations, so complex in variation that their invisible order of meaning eludes 
even the most experienced of travellers. This paradoxical complexity, which 
harbors the anarchic force of the commodity, brings us to the final question of 
escape which is the same as how to move forward. Marco’s answer is that there 
are two ways to escape suffering the inferno: 


il primo riesce facile a molti: accettare 1’inferno e diventarne parte fino al punto di 
non vederlo pit. Il secondo é rischioso ed esige attenzione e apprendimento continui; 
cercare e saper riconoscere chi e cosa, in mezzo all’inferno, non é inferno, e farlo 
durare, e dargli spazio. 

(170) 


The writer’s responsibility is thus connected to a rhetoric grounded in a 
semiotics that communicates the meanings that a culture holds dear at the same 
time it chooses to experience and inhabit the space in which new and provocative 
meanings will find expression. This is perhaps a way of both asking and 
answering Jameson’s final question of whether there is a way of resisting the 
logic of consumer capitalism. Between Calvino’s alternatives, the second is 
obviously the most difficult to realize because it requires an understanding of the 
map of human diversity. Like Marco Polo, the postmodern writer — the 
postmodern architect as well (Jencks 97) — must become responsible for the 





Postmodern Rhetoric: Calvino’ s Le citta invisibili and Architecture 237 


various meanings of the people he has visited; these meanings will be expressed 
in his forms. 

Yet what appear as Calvino’s ethical concerns finds no adequate formal 
expression. The collage-effect produced by the juxtaposition of descriptions or 
reports suggests a flattening of the narrative perspective, creating the illusion of 
two dimensionality. The existence of a third dimension hinges on the operations 
of the reader; it requires a merger of the fable with history (set off by italic type 
as a discourse apart). Hence Marco’s reports appear to Kublai Khan on multiple 
surfaces as manifest signs that must be reimagined and thus given the unity of a 
mental image. Like Marco’s memory, which repeats signs so that the cities can 
begin to exist, his interlocutor must provide essence and authenticity to words. 

What we have broadly described as postmodernism’s concern with surface, 
depthlessness and glorification of technique has very specific consequences in the 
realm of material culture, specifically architecture. There the fascination with 
multiplicity of interpretation, double-meanings and puns found in postmodern 
literature is tested against what Linda Hutcheon calls the “inevitable textuality” 
of knowledge. Architecture’s inevitable textuality is in its “thingness” and 
implacable connection to place. Recent moves toward paper or conceptual 
architecture, of which the 1989 show at MOMA on “Deconstructivist 
Architecture” illustrates a recent professional trend away from architecture’s 
traditional interest in program and site. A brisk international market in 
architectural drawings suggests that architects are uncomfortable with their 
discipline’s inbred difficulties and envy what they read as the pure free play 
which characterizes the celebrated contemporary production of their literary 
compatriots. Architecture’s thingness and sense of place make it an unlikely 
stage for the modern free dance spectacle of signifier and signified. Architecture, 
unlike literature, never is set on a bare stage. 

It then should be no surprise that most postmodernist activity in architecture 
has been in elevation and rarely in plan and section (John Hejduk and Peter 
Eisenman are notable exceptions). For the majority, postmodern architecture has 
been a play at the surface (elevation) with little attention to three-dimensional 
form making. Major cities in Europe and America contain the record of this 
work: Palladian cutouts, Bramantian broken keystones and Walt Disney ducks 
mark the thin facades of buildings with radically different functions (from banks 
to fast food outlets). The paradox, of course, must already be apparent. While the 
postmodern intention is to encourage a multiplicity of meanings, in practice the 
flattening of surface to accommodate billboard-like signage has created a lack of 
distinction, a privileging of semantics over syntax and a general blurring of 
distinction rather than an encouragement of diversity. 

Calvino’s Le citta invisibili offers a useful intersection between the different 
problems of production in the essentially separate worlds of literary and material 
culture. By testing the absolute freedom of language games against the relatively 
fixed and terrestrial problems of architecture, his narrative or anti-narrative 


238 Robert Dombroski and Ross Miller 


becomes a convenient critique of the current practice of architecture in the 
postmodern style, although postmodernism in architecture is the obverse of 
Calvino’s formulation for literary “architecture.” In the novelist’s material 
world, reality is constructed from an infinity of interpretations to be determined 
by an organic game of signs. Calvino uses architecture to provide the 
imagination, which is essentially private and closeted, with a status in the 
material world, whereas the postmodern architect borrows the signs — from the 
classical orders or cartoons — and re-inscribes them through the associative 
meanings of his building’s program. Marco Polo is Calvino’s architect; he 
builds not with mortar or bricks, but with narrative. His architecture, which can 
exist only in the putative language of the clean white page, generates its own 
form and space. It becomes three-dimensional as the reader reimagines the words. 
Paradoxically the postmodern architect does not generate form as he plasters with 
signifiers, like a billboard painter with paste, his wafer-like facades. His work 
does not sustain a multiplicity of meanings — the postmodern intention — but 
a reduction of them through the sputtering binary agency of punning and irony. 
The question “Isn’t it ironic?” rather than “Isn’t it beautiful?” divides the 
postmodernist from the romantic, the interpreter from the form maker, the critic 
from the artist. 

Whereas architecture is rich in referents, postmodern literature is rich in 
signs. Calvino’s plot in Le cittd invisibili is an attempt to have the one enrich 
the other. Kublai Khan relies on Marco to transform the THING into a SIGN. 
Calvino encourages the reader to play the game and complete the process, to 
transform the sign back into a real thing, returning the referent to the image. 
Kublai Khan’s world, remote from the West where he believes culture is being 
reimagined and, more importantly, remade, is rich in things and poor in new 
signs. Marco Polo is most interested in the newly discovered facts of 
architecture, while Kublai Khan in its idea. Like Alberti newly discovering and 
translating Vitruvius, Marco — as we have already remarked — tells the emperor 
that “without stones there is no arch,” in answer to his chastisement, “Why do 
you speak to me of the stones? It is only the arch that matters to me.” 

Consumer culture has made intellectuals into complacent Kublai Khans 
more interested in the “line of the arch” than the labor process that made it 
possible. Our purpose has been to refocus interest on the rhetorical 
transformations of form into idea, signified into signifier that have marked the 
period we call postmodern. We are attempting to offer a discourse that mediates 
between the discredited universalizing of modernism and the soulless 
dematerializing of postmodern theorizing, thus suggesting a new correspondence 
between language and action. 

Such a correspondence may be posited in terms that are once ethical and 
aesthetic. The worlds Marco presents to Kublai Khan have their own 
commonsense reality, although to the emperor they are merely possible worlds. 
The process of reporting serves to integrate aesthetically these terms. These 








Postmodern Rhetoric: Calvino’ s Le citta invisibili and Architecture 239 


worlds are attractive to Khan because they are “new”: they break the pattern of 
his referential schema, of his commonplace reality, thus producing wonder and 
temporary escape, while at the same time they evoke the ethos of the “other.” 
Through his ambassador, Khan journeys to strange lands, into the “ethical” heart 
of different communities. Confronted with the fragments of discourse Marco 
brings him, he cannot help but view discourse as a relative phenomenon. 

But “relative” in what sense? In relation to form, to Marco’s narrative 
intentions, to the existence of some transcendent reality existing beyond his 
texts, or relative to “history,” to “language” or to “discourse” itself? 

We think the discourse is relative to none of the above, for Marco’s “r 
worlds are not objects to be understood and thus dominated. Rather, they are 
ways of understanding. They are not “represented” but instead “evoked.” We can 
apply to Marco’s discourse what Stephen A. Tyler writes about the ethnographic 
text, for Marco is the ethnographer of imaginary worlds: the text “is not only an 
object, it is not the object; it is just a means, the meditative vehicle for a 
transcendence of time and place that is not just transcendental but a 
transcendental return to time and place” (129). Thus these worlds retain their 
particular, specific difference — of time, place, and materialized existence in 
architecture — at the same time they are a restorative vision, a therapy designed 
to call forth the reality of different commonplace worlds and to fuse that reality 
with the world of the viewer which has been renewed by means of the aesthetic 
process. 

It is not by accident that Calvino chooses architecture or city building as his 
postmodern paradigm. He understands that building implies a sense of optimism 
about the ideas of closure and unity that normally tend to be undercut by reason. 
There is a bone-headed aspect to architecture — its preoccupation with measuring 
and the tiniest facts — that makes it a reluctant candidate for theorizing. The 
aspect of optimism or healing — filling holes and remaking the world — that is 
implicit in architectural activity makes it an ambiguous model for the 
postmodernist writer. However, Calvino knows that there is a shadow side to the 
work that implies its opposite. The first function we have assigned to Emperor 
Khan, the second to Marco. 

For Kublai Khan there is unity: he has constructed in his mind a model city 
from which all possible cities can be deduced. For Marco, it is a city made of 
exceptions, exclusions, incongruities, contradictions. In both cases, 180 degrees 
opposed, architecture remains the model. For Khan it offers a premodern 
certainty that truth can be known and made palpable. Khan’s city is his power. 
Marco is also secure knowing that the world remains fragmented and incapable of 
wholeness. 

To the novelist Calvino, with whom we travel most intimately, both 
interpretations of the material world are acceptable. The characteristic feature of 
postmodern discourse is that while it appears to be dialectical it can equally 
accept either term of the dialectic and has no faith in synthesis. Calvino’s novel 


240 Robert Dombroski and Ross Miller 


becomes a parable of parables. Marco and Khan are playing the same game. This 
is the same game the attentive reader must play. Pure discourse in what passes as 
plot and in narrative is constantly being transformed materially. Calvino is 
forcing the reader to rehistoricize, to connect back to the world even when he and 
the reader, like Marco, have no faith in the results. A reader of Le citia invisibili 
is compelled to privilege the world of things over the world of words at the same 
time he can find no logical reason to do so. The infinite regresses — loops — of 
discourse are broken when the reader engages Khan or Marco answering Khan. 
Architecture as Khanian unity or Marcoian fragment provides an antidote to the 
arbitrariness of postmodern language. In its very “thingness” or “builtness,” 
architecture is incapable of perfection and is the ancient repository of loss. 


The University of Connecticut at Storrs 


Postmodern Rhetoric: Calvino’ s Le citta invisibili and Architecture 241 


Works Cited 


Calvino, Italo. Le citta invisibili. Torino: Einaudi, 1972. 

Eagleton, Terry. The Ideology of the Aesthetic. Oxford: Blackwell, 1990. 

Harvey, David. The Condition of Postmodernity. London: Blackwell, 1989. 

Hutcheon, Linda. A Poetics of Postmodernism. New York: Routledge, 1988. 

Jameson, Fredric. “Postmodernism and the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism.” New 
Left Review 146 (1986): 53-92. 

Jenks, Charles. The Language of Post-modern Architecture. New York: Rizzoli, 1972. 

Lyotard, Jean Francois. The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge. Trans. 
G. Bennington. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1984. 

Musarra, Ulla. “Duplication and Multiplication: Postmodernist Devices in the Novels 
of Italo Calvino.” Approaching Postmodernism. Ed. Douwe Fokkema and Hans 
Bertens. Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 1986. 

Pirandello, Luigi. “Arte e coscienza d’oggi.” Saggi, poesie, scritti vari. Milano: 
Mondadori, 1960. 891-906. 

Tyler, Stephen A. “Post-Modern Ethnography: From Document of the Occult to 
Occult Document.” Writing Culture: The Poetics and Politics of Ethnography. 
Ed. James Clifford. Berkeley: U of California P, 1986. 118-35. 


Beverly Allen 


Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 


in lingua in verbo ci constatiamo, incarnati 
inchiostrati incastrati squartati dai quattro lati, 

persi in collages e in agnizioni reciproche: mite/truce 
proprio/esproprio fisima/cresima fuisse/in-nuce. 
(Zanzotto, “La Pasqua a Pieve di Soligo”) 


Postmodernism is confusing at times.! Contemporary modes of what is 
traditionally thought of as aesthetic cultural production, like contemporary 
modes of politics, business, religion and disease, differ from those that seemed to 
characterize my youth and what I know of the early and middle parts of this 
century in the U.S. and Europe. Yet many articulations of postmodernism seem 
not to be specific to contemporary cultural production at all. Notions of 
fragmentation, for example, sound modern, while a plethora of styles could just 
as easily be baroque. What is clear, from the prefix “post-”, if from nothing else, 
is that there is a contemporary sensibility in European and U.S. cultures, and 
perhaps even arguably in global contexts, that distinguishes itself from 
sensibilities associated with the first half of this century (McGowan 2-30). 

Modern European and U.S. literature, if I take “modern” in a wide sense as 
beginning in the Eighteenth Century, is marked by the development of the 
novel, which represents the psychic and social lineaments of the new bourgeois 
subject. Modern European and U.S. literature, if I take “modern” to mean early 
twentieth century, has problematized this bourgeois subjectivity it “inherited” 
from the Enlightenment. The literature of postmodernity, especially (but not 
only) that deriving from postcolonial situations, brings a new critique to the 
notion of the unified subject. These are familiar arguments to literary scholars 
(Bhabha). In these two referents, “modern” is associated historically with the 
autonomous subjective “identity”? of Enlightenment postulation and with the 
nation state in our century. 

One of the most salient features, I believe, of contemporary literary 
production globally is the way in which much of it critiques the function of 


1 T would like to thank John Agnew for bringing notions of place and synchoricity to my 
attention in his own work and in that of other geographers such as Allen Pred and Edward Soja; 
thanks also to John Welle for pointing out Hermann Haller’s book and to Akhil Gupta for 
making his forthcoming work available to me. 

2 I use “identity” in quotation marks in order to highlight the contradictory nature of the 
concept. In order to be “identical” to something or someone else, a thing or a person must first 
be distinct from it. To think in terms of “identity", then, is always to think ideologically. 








Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 243 


national “identity” in traditional notions of the unified subject. What happens to 
that part of the unified subject that depends on national “identity” and concurrent 
“identity” possibilities such as that of citizenship when the person whose 
subjectivity is at stake belongs to a border culture, such as Chicano culture and 
the land of Aztlan in the U.S. and Mexico (Rosaldo 147-67)? What happens to 
that part of the unified subject that depends on national “identity” when the 
person whose subjectivity is at stake speaks a tribal language or a highly 
differentiated dialect instead of the national language, such as Wolof in Senegal 
(Ousmane) or Barese in Italy? 

In such ponderings as these, place is of the most enveloping importance. By 
thinking in terms of the distribution and redistribution of placeness effected by 
recent (postmodern?) literary productions, I have noticed two in particular that 
engage directly with renegotiations of national “identity.” One, the literary 
artifact I call the postnational novel, operates in a global macrocontext, 
challenging national “identity” by making it somehow secondary to a larger one 
(Allen 1992). The other, what I call local literature, operates in a regional 
microcontext, challenging national “identity” by somehow making it secondary 
to a smaller one. 

Later in this text, I take a look at a particular place, the town of Pieve di 
Soligo in the Veneto in Italy, as a place of local literature. But first, let me offer 
a description of a kind of literature whose place is the opposite of local. 

Briefly, the postnational novel as I see it is any novel in which national 
“identity” appears as a significant factor in the representation of subjects and 
action, or characters and plot, and which may be translated and in any case is 
distributed widely on an international scale almost as soon as (or even before) it 
appears in the original in the nation state context where or for which it was 
written. Examples of the postnational novel are Margaret Atwood’s Lady Oracle, 
Umberto Eco’s The Name of the Rose, Milan Kundera’s The Unbearable 
Lightness of Being, Gabriel Garcia Marquez’ One Hundred Years of Solitude, and 
Salman Rushdie’s The Satanic Verses. Moreover, such novels are often made 
into films, thereby potentially reaching audiences — albeit in a medium that 
works in vastly different ways from that of the novel — that may not have print 
literacy. 

This sort of novel depends on contemporary print technology as well as on 
contemporary corporate publishing and distribution structures and on 
contemporary film production and distribution practices. It is, therefore, a 
historically recent (postmodern?) phenomenon. Much of its significance, 
however, derives from the difference it marks between its own instantiation of 
national “identity” and that of the European novel at its historic appearance in 
the eighteenth century. What Ian Watt calls “the rise of the novel” had the 
historical task of providing a representation of a unified bourgeois mentality, one 
that was constituted by such notions as those of subjective autonomy, the 
psychologized individual, and, not least, national “identity,” the interior 


244 Beverly Allen 


umbilicus connecting the instance of greatest freedom — the autonomous 
individual — to the instance of greatest control — the amorphous state — via 
the dark internalization of that control (Watt). 

Significantly, the public for which the early European novels — think of 
Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe, for example — were written was in every case the 
national language group whose own national “identity” was insistently 
represented by those novels. The conditions of translation, publication, and 
distribution that characterize the postnational novel, however, determine that the 
public for such a novel is necessarily in greatest part a public that does not claim 
the national “identity” that such a novel represents. Therefore, the production and 
reception networks of the postnational novel have the effect of calling into 
question traditional valorizations of national “identity” as they simultaneously 
offer a view, either implicit or explicit, of a new valence for that sort of 
“identity.” 

Consider the possibility, for example, that a non-print-literate person in 
Norway or the Philippines or the United States might see the film, The 
Unbearable Lightness of Being. Each viewer’s distance from the characters’ 
negotiations of their own Czech national “identity” as represented by Kundera 
during the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 contains the possibility 
that the viewer’s own national “identity” will take on a relative value, a sense of 
arbitrariness, even perhaps a tinge of virtual exchangeability. The circulation of 
“identity” codes effected by the postnational novel, therefore, is both constitutive 
and predictive of a shift away from the importance of the nation state as a 
teleologically complete organizer of “identity” and action toward a practical 
contextualization of “identity” and action that is transnational at least and that 
points to the demise of national “identity” as a functional category. 

The pragmatics of this literary phenomenon, therefore, evoke a resemblance 
between it and other postnational communities such as multinational 
corporations, religious fundamentalism, and the AIDS community (both of the 
latter of which have taken on roles traditionally associated with the nation state: 
the issuing of execution orders, for example, and the flourishing of an illegal 
economy in drugs and treatments, for another). 

Finally, it is not so much through a positivist, teleological, “modern” and 
temporally oriented reading, paradoxically, that I can gain a historical 
understanding of this literary production. Rather, it is through an understanding 
of the significance of place — of setting in the novel, for example, but also and 
emphatically of distribution of the novel and location of its readers — as an 
apparent challenge to the “identity” assumptions the novel has traditionally 
borne. This perspective, which adds the notion of place to the notion of time in 
a conceptualization of history, might be termed diachoric rather than diachronic; 
it insists on the significance of the positioning and repositioning of people and 
objects within spaces imagined as places. Here, then, I locate the simultaneously 
predictive and constitutive functions of the postnational novel: as a macrotextual 








Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 245 


reworking of cultural — and therefore of cognitive — premises regarding the 
valence of the nation state in constitutions of subjective “identity.” 

I insist, therefore, on the importance of place specificity and subject 
positionings within a given place as a corrective addition to chronological 
notions of cultural history. Thinking in these terms, I next approach local 
literary contextualizations in contemporary culture, which I am able to observe 
in Europe (one example being the literature of the Veneto which I shall talk 
about later) and the United States (think of writers such as Bret Harte and Mark 
Twain, whose “local color” negotiates “identity” at a time when the Civil War 
had rendered national “identity” highly problematic). This production is generally 
bound by linguistic specificity (as dialect, say, rather than as a national 
language) and by means of production and distribution to a relatively and 
sometimes highly localized public. In contrast to cultural artifacts that, being 
associated with mass media, are quite recent, it is a long and ongoing — some 
might say “archaic” — mode of literary production. It offers an alternative to 
national “identity” that is a challenge from within. Local literature emblematizes 
not the “identity” negotiations of subjects who have passed through the 
constitutive influence of nation-state ideology and come out, so to speak, on the 
other side, as I might say the postnational novel does. On the contrary, local 
literature, in its very endurance, is emblematic of historic resistance to the nation 
State as a preeminent “identity” category. 

One telling instance of such local literature has recently been delineated by 
Gordon Craig in a discussion of current Glaswegian novels (Craig). These tales 
are written by Glaswegians for Glaswegians and are peopled with Glaswegians 
living in Glasgow. They enjoy large printings, yet their distribution is limited 
almost exclusively to the confines of Glasgow itself. These are best-sellers, 
then, which never make it past the edge of the city, much less the national 
border. And they offer, over and over again, representations of a context for 
social and subjective constitutions that is clearly not the nation state but a 
metropolis whose own “identity” as a place antedates the modern period and the 
ideologies of nationhood. 

More to the point, even, are local literatures that mark themselves as archaic 
constitutions of “identity” vis-a-vis the nation state by their linguistic 
precedence, both diachronic and synchronic, both diachoric and synchoric, relative 
to a national language. Whether these literary productions are conducted entirely 
in a language other than the official language of the nation state, such as Wolof 
in Senegal, or in a diglossy that reflects cultural actuality but not official nation 
state representations of “identity,” such as Spanish and English as used by 
Chicano writers in the United States, or in a linguistic code that stands 
historically as a continuous historical alternative to a standardized national 
language, such as dialect literature in Italy, they hold a common thread in that 
they all provide an alternative contextualization for subjective being and action 
that is not the context provided by the nation state, a contextualization that in 


246 Beverly Allen 


this case is both pre-modern and postmodern in its resistance to the “identity” 
possibilities offered by any modern national context.? 

Now, let me bring you to a place, one always slightly edenic for me, a place 
of my own personal pilgrimages to the enigmas of language and a place 
emblematic of much contemporary social change in northern Italy: Pieve di 
Soligo, the home town and constant residence of the poet Andrea Zanzotto. 

Pieve di Soligo is a small town in the Veneto near Treviso. Its inhabitants 
counted among their numbers, until his recent demise, the remarkable Nino, 
agronomist, astronomer, agriculturist, peasant, seer and poet, as the calling card 
he gave me once proudly announced. In keeping with local traditions, Nino had 
won any number of literary prizes, perhaps more than the internationally known 
Zanzotto himself. Nino also raised animals, tended his vineyards, and had the 
capacity to eat an entire chicken, bones and all, at his ninetieth birthday party in 
spite of the fact that by then he had only half a dozen teeth. Pieve di Soligo is a 
place where Nino would socialize with the local dignitaries, including the crusty 
mayor, the rotund, red-nosed local priests, and the local prince, grandson of the 
man in whose fiefdom Nino’s grandfather had been a kind of serf. Nino was one 
of Zanzotto’s best friends, a local phenomenon, with emphasis on the local. His 
practice of conversing in rapid alternation about crops and verse cadence, his 
habit of bursting into lyric in the middle of a discussion about the weather, his 
immeasurable good humor and the way it testified to an archaic pantheism in 
which there was no hierarchized valorization of poetry and plow furrows are 
characteristics emblematic of this place, where academic notions of history are 
jumbled in a synchoristic actuality. 

Anyone who has read Zanzotto’s poetry will recognize Nino and the 
conglomerate of practices, “grand-narrative” historical periods, and locally 
specific make-up of community which he embodied (Allen, Zanzotto; Welle). 
These conglomerates are still hazily discernible in Pieve di Soligo. For example, 
from a caffé in the town square I noticed that a man had set up a sort of stand 
where he was offering to repair the straw seats on wooden chairs typical of local 
houses. Wondering if I had stumbled upon an equivalent of the “justaonbrele” 
Zanzotto writes about in “Mistierdi” (Zanzotto 1986), I ambled over to speak 
with him. He was a man in his fifties or so whose thinning, red-dyed hair evoked 
in my companion (a scholar of German literature) strong notions of Venice, 


3 Fora representation of the status of Wolof in Senegal, see Ousmane’s novel, Xala; Anzaldua’s 
Borderlands/La Frontera is a well-known example of bilingual Chicano writing. Dialect 
literature in Italy is pervasive throughout the peninsula. The Milanese Carlo Porta and the 
Roman Giuseppe Gioacchino Belli are well known dialect poets of the nineteenth century whose 
work constantly refers to its municipal contexts, despite or because of the fact that theirs was 
the age of the Risorgimento, the movement for Italian national unification. In the twentieth 
century, several wellknown poets who have done most of their work in Italian have also written 
in dialect; Pasolini and Zanzotto are among the most prominent in this group (note especially 
Pasolini’s Poesie a Casarsa and Zanzotto’s Filo). 


Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 247 


mortality and Thomas Mann. When the straw-weaver learned that I was in town 
to visit the poet, Zanzotto, he handed me his calling card and announced that he, 
too, was a poet. Then he began to recite a lengthy ode to the fire of love. I 
thought that I would never be able to communicate this notion of how poetry 
infiltrates the quotidian social fiber in this town to my students back in the 
States. Yet the social and physical conditions which permit such a practice of 
poetry to endure as normative, along with the trades of straw weaver and even 
umbrella repair man, are precisely some of the constitutive aspects I would most 
want to communicate about Pieve di Soligo, its placeness. 

The preeminence of local legend over national literary history is another 
stunning aspect of Pieve di Soligo as a locale. When I compare traditional 
versions of literary history that set the production of, say, Della Casa’s Galateo 
in a linear sweep of national tradition, to what the Pievigiani have to say about 
it, I begin to doubt that the nation-state ever got even a toehold here. For the 
locals, the Galateo is a book that the Monsignor Della Casa wrote while he was 
in residence “over there” in the Montello wood, courting the Venetian poet 
Gaspara Stampa, who was herself residing in a local castle. The Montello, not 
“Ttaly,” and certainly not “Europe,” is the site of literature that in Rome and New 
York is called “Italian,” but not here. 

My further investigations into conditions of postmodernity in Pieve di 
Soligo afforded me the opportunity to receive some prescient readings of the 
present from Zanzotto’s cousin Amneris Bernardi, one of my favorite Pievigiani 
and the owner of the local profumeria. Amneris laments the passage of quieter 
times in Pieve di Soligo, saying that now “we are drugged with work.” As far as 
class proprieties are concerned, she, an enterprising single woman with a 
flourishing business on the town square, remarks that the local plumber has 
recently purchased a villa. She recounts for me that many of the local women are 
now in the public work force, thus taking responsibility for three major life 
activities: their house, their job, and their grooming, which, she testifies (and 
she is eminently qualified to do so), remains impeccable at all times. These 
burdens lead, Amneris attests, to some personal problems (“qualche disturbo”) 
sooner or later. In general, Amneris continues, the goal of well-being, “il 
benessere,” has people too much on the run. Their way of thinking has changed. 

(Amneris continues her analysis, slipping into dialect in a way that never 
fails to flatter me, the outsider, the foreigner, as if all this were something I 
would intrinsically understand, as I would intrinsically understand her sweetened 
consonants, her increased lilt, the vocalization of her “identity” with this place.) 

““We’re not a family anymore, we’re too individualistic.” These are the ills 
of well-being, “le malattie del benessere.” And people suffer from them quite 
literally. Why, the good Doctor Fregné, who is French, treats many of her 
friends, and he is a specialist in psychosomatic disorders! As far as Culture is 
concerned, moreover, “we’ve lagged behind,” she laments. The young people, 
fortunately, have had a chance to study, but the older Pievigiani have had to 


248 Beverly Allen 


work. Then there are (once again) the women. Ah, the women — they are 
“brave”: they pay close attention to all their children, even if they also have 
jobs. 

Finally, Amneris tells me about a recent staging, in Pieve di Soligo, of 
Zanzotto’s little “Venetian” book of poems, Fild.4 The recitor and the musicians 
were “bravissimi,” she exclaims, but what would Zanzotto’s grandmother have 
thought to see her “pin penin” nursery rhyme appear on “a global stage”?° 

In Amneris’ speech and in that of every other Pievigiano, dialect is the 
verbal sign of local “identity.” This “identity” is so specifically local, in fact, 
that a Pievigiano man might claim that his wife fails to understand him because 
she comes from a town two hills away, where of course “they speak another 
dialect.” 

Zanzotto and I walk along the last cultivated field within the increasingly 
inhabited town limits as he responds to my queries and as I skirt around in his 
thinking, trying to find further signs of postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo. 

“Dialects,” Zanzotto says, “are like nature. They grow like weeds, like the 
weeds that sprout up in the fields.” Especially “i dialetti piccoli,” the ones that 
are “far from the center.” As far as his own “identity” is concerned, the strongest 
context for Zanzotto is the Veneto — the region in the northeastern part of the 
peninsula, that is, and not the nation state. Part of this “‘identita veneta” derives 
from what he calls “l’effetto contrada,” the notion of historic regional rivalry. 
Venice, he continues, was already a dominant power in 1388, and “four centuries 
aren’t nothing, after all.” This is a surprising moment, tinged with a meek sort 
of gloating, from the poet who warns against the dangers of triumphalism and 
“History” in II galateo in bosco (93-102). An archaic moment, as well, placing 
Zanzotto in a context where the nation state is but one of any number of 
attempts to dominate that which can not be suppressed or surpassed: the Veneto, 
the region whence he distills his meaning. 

Finally, the poet addresses postmodernity, which he describes initially as 
“the transcription of ‘weak thought’” (Vattimo). It is the fall of logocentrism, he 


4 This book, containing three poetic texts written in various historic and invented versions of 
Venetian and Pievigian dialect, was prepared in part at the request of Federico Fellini for his film 
“Fellini’s Casanova” in 1976. Published in Venice by Edizioni del Ruzante, it contains 
Zanzotto’s first clear weavings of his dialect and ecology themes, thereby marking it as one of 
the most synchoristic works of this highly synchoristic poet. 

“Pin penin” are the opening and refrain words of Zanzotto’s “Cantilena londinese” in Fild. In 
Fellini’s film, they are sung by the exiled Venetian giantess as she bathes and plays with her 
dolls and dwarves in her dressing room at the carnival in London where she is being displayed as 
a wrestler. Upon overhearing her dialect song, Casanova recognizes that she comes from his 
home island in the Venetian lagoon. The “pin penin,” therefore, is emblematic of the dulcet 
bonding of these two characters on the basis of a specific regional locality of provenance that, 
for one moment in the film, at least, holds sway over the Enlightenment Europeanism that 
characterizes much of Casanova’s experience. 








Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 249 


says, as my feminist ears hearken keenly to his words. It is the fall, he 
continues, of rational bases for thought, the end of the grand political myths. Is 
it a positive thing? “Doveva capitare a un certo momento perché si erano fatte 
troppe illusioni sulla ragione.” Suddenly, the sky opens, and we run to shelter 
from the summer rainstorm. 

There once was a language, Zanzotto continues at dinner that night, now 
called “Nostratico,” which was spoken around 70,000 B.C.E. in Indo-European 
regions, and dialects on the Italian peninsula are a continuation of that language. 
This continuity, which is not a remarkable notion to me despite Zanzotto’s 
rather gleeful presentation of it, is due, he maintains, to an absence of literacy. 
Illiterate speakers would speak continually, with no rupture in the continuity of 
language, receiving language “from the environment” — without the mediation 
of writing and reading, that is. Therefore, Zanzotto goes on, linguistic change 
would occur outside the consciousness of the speakers. Any change would 
immediately become the norm, because there would be no written evidence of 
previous versions to bear witness to the possibility of variance. I wonder if this 
is an erasure of history; I wonder if this is a postmodern moment. 

Beneath it all, Zanzotto continues, beneath postmodernity, that is, lies a 
kind of slithering nihilism — sometimes you see it, and sometimes you don’t, 
like a river in Friuli. This is especially true in Italy, he says, where we are 
witnessing a return to the baroque, in traditional alternation with classic 
principles. I think that the age of Zanzotto’s cultural context is showing here, 
where he is capable of articulating the characteristics of what for many thinkers 
is a definitive, technology-bound movement out of teleological or cyclical 
organizations of history as, precisely, simply one of those periods of disarrayed 
linearities which always follow periods that keep their lines straight. There are 
no more strong forces, he says, as he slips into the physics lingo his recent 
poetry is so fond of; there are only weak forces. 

And then he comes to architecture. “Si vive scagazzando, facendo case 
orrende. Non sono neanche il postmoderno; sono di certe pollai....” And, 
arriving in the main square, he insists that I look at what I had always considered 
a rather undistinguished, and at the same time rather inoffensive, provincial 
building a couple of decades old. This postmodern monument, this “ziggurat 
babilonesco,” as Zanzotto would have it, right here in the middle of Pieve di 
Soligo, is the ugliest thing the human mind could possibly conceive. The 
architects are “geniuses of the ugly.” I realize that, whatever it is, postmodernity 
in Pieve di Soligo is something this poet, at least, takes very seriously. 

What next? I ask. For a certain period, Zanzotto prophesies, there will be 
many styles, where everything is possible because nothing is possible. His own, 
most postmodern, book, is /] Galateo in bosco (Zanzotto 1978; Welle). It is also 
his most intensely local book, I think. He cites its mixture of styles, its use of 
citations, references, clichés, as proof of its postmodern status. The inventions 
of science, and of science fiction, he continues, will have an important role as 


250 Beverly Allen 


postmodernity progresses. As far as technology is concerned, where once we had 
machines that were hardware, now we have machines that depend on software 
(like Vattimo’s weak thought, I wonder). In fact, Zanzotto continues, what we 
have in postmodernity is a phosphenic situation. 

Phosphenes, in Zanzotto’s poetry, are simultaneously the material external 
physical world, as when they shine forth from nighttime seaweed in the ocean, 
and the somatic internal subjective world, as when they appear as the lights I see 
when I shut my eyes tight. Oscillation, ambiguity, analogy abound in particular 
in his book called Fosfeni (Zanzotto 1983), and so I work toward a sense of 
postmodernity here as a sinchoricity, or perhaps better, for Fosfeni’s insistence 
on the materiality of experience and language, as a synchoricity, a physical 
combination within a place. 

Zanzotto’s example of this phosphenic situation is the space station. The 
space station has no need of aerodynamic form. Its context is independent of the 
kind of causality recognizable in Newtonian physics. Consequently, it is 
designed in the most baroque forms imaginable, knotty knuckle forms that have 
nothing to do with images of rockets, forms which are, instead, arborescent, like 
trees. Is this synchory? I ask, eager to try out a new notion. Yes, a beautiful 
term for it, he replies, and I think I will include his comment in my write-up. 

Our talk has turned more emphatically now to notions of the local, of place, 
movement within space, contextual specificity. From Zanzotto’s vantage point 
in Pieve di Soligo, what he calls “l’elemento etnico” is growing ever weaker, as 
is the notion of the village itself. Not surprisingly, he attributes this dilution of 
the local to an increased emphasis on a kind of rival national “identity,” an 
invading one, in fact, which has been present on the Italian peninsula since the 
1960s. United States habits have wormed their way into life in Italy with the 
result that local “identity,” what Zanzotto calls “the ethnic element,” is 
threatened with destruction. The “Americanization” of Italy “distrugge 
l’inconscio dei popoli,” he says, and I remark that he speaks of the people in the 
plural. “The peoples” are a sure sign that even at the point of Zanzotto’s most 
dire vision of the disappearance of local “identity,” his reference is to the varied 
points of multiple, dialect, local, regional cultural contexts that exist on the 
Italic peninsula. It is the disappearance of these he fears, and not the 
disappearance of any unified national culture. 

Cultural homogenization favors entropy, he continues. Everything gets 
transformed, irreversibly so, and what results is something like a “risotto 
universale.” He pulls an example from what is traditionally referred to as ancient 
history and reminds me that the Romans permitted themselves things like this, 
things, that is, like assimilation of Roman usages to local ones. He suggests I 
read Colin Powell on the subject. 

His next book will most likely be entitled, Temi di paesaggio, he remarks, 
as I wonder whether to classify this a non sequitur. “Quasi un ritorno sopra ai 
primi libri.” I think of the itinerary of Dietro il paesaggio (1951), Elegia e altri 





Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 251 


versi (1954), Vocativo (1957), and IX Ecloghe (1962). I remember riding with 
Zanzotto in his car through the landscape of the Veneto and those books. I 
remember what a careful driver he was. I also remember the bumps in the roads, 
and my own l/apsus as I wrote about Zanzotto some years ago (Andrea Zanzotto). 
I am convinced now, as I was then, that one of the keenest keys for reading 
Zanzotto is the notion of the symptom: that which is most evident hides that 
which is most significant. Will this “return” of his be a (postmodern?) citation, 
a (modern?) Vichian ricorso, or something more slippery? I know where to place 
it, in any Case. 

We are eating polenta and grilled sausages in the country trattoria called 
“Ciao Bei,” and our day of local talk closes with three events remarkable for their 
dependance on national “identity.” First, the oste sits down with us and, as he 
repeatedly sends his young wife to serve us more and more food, questions my 
companion, the scholar of German culture, as to why nazism was so successful 
in Germany. What is it about the Germans. .. . 

This kind of question immediately brings national “identity” into question, 
and we begin to joke about the stereotypes national “identity” propagates. 
Zanzotto tells two jokes, calling them “European” in honor of the economic 
unification of Europe due next year. The first has to do with soldiers in a new 
European army when faced with the (somewhat contrived, I think) necessity of 
jumping out of an airplane without parachutes. The English soldier leaps 
without hesitation because his survival will be “‘a gentleman’s bet.” The German 
does so because it’s an order. The French soldier jumps because “‘c’est chic.” 
When the Italian finally goes, he does so because he knows that jumping out of 
airplanes without parachutes is forbidden. 

The second joke doesn’t come off quite so well. I think my simultaneous 
translation talents (I am translating into English for my German scholar 
companion) can’t hold up to this sort of humor, which I find stale. In this one, 
Zanzotto talks about an Italian and a German who arrive together in Hell, where 
they are separated into distinct, nationally determined mini-hells, a German hell 
and an Italian hell. After many peripezie, the Italian learns from one of the devils 
of his great good fortune in having been assigned to the Italian hell rather than 
the German one, for there, in the German hell, everything works, while here, in 
the Italian one, nothing does: the gas doesn’t get delivered on time, therefore the 
spits don’t turn, the temperature goes down, everything goes to pot... . 

And so we go out into the Veneto night, edging through the woods back to 
Pieve di Soligo, and I think what a remarkable place we are in. The archaic and 
enduring local traditions persist in their own sense of threatened, yet preeminent, 
context, while one of the “greatest” “Italian” poets, who considers himself from 
the Veneto first, tells shaggy dog stories about national stereotypes in larger 
contexts of a unified Europe and the afterlife. 

I let these perhaps contradictory (postmodern?) moments, lived in the 
warmth that I find only in the village locales I know, signal a conclusion to my 


252 Beverly Allen 


literary theoretical considerations here. In both the postnational novel and local 
literature, negotiations of subjective “identity” are best understood, it seems to 
me, within images of space that constitute placeness. My self has (postmodern?) 
possibilities which are exactly congruent with my images of local and global 
situations for that self, with all the relative valences and territorial legends those 
imply. National “identity,” as both the postnational novel and local literature 
demonstrate, is but one possible image now available to my (postmodern?) self’s 
constitution. I conclude that I would do well to be aware of how it is used, by 
myself and perhaps especially by others, to describe me, to solicit me, to 
categorize me, to patriotize me. These are the (postmodern) themes I found this 
summer in this beloved landscape in the Veneto. 


Syracuse University 


Works Cited 


Agnew, John. Place and Politics. Boston: Allen & Unwin, 1987. 
. “Timeless Space and State-Centrism: The Geographical Assumptions of 
International Relations Theory.” Syracuse, NY: Unpublished essay, 1991. 
and James S. Duncan, eds. The Power of Place: Bringing Together 
Geographical and Social Imaginations. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989. 
Allen, Beverly. Andrea Zanzotto: The Language of Beauty's Apprentice. Berkeley: U 
of California P, 1988. 

. “The Novel, the Body, and Giorgio Armani: Rethinking National ‘Identity’ 
in a Postnational World.” Feminism and Femininity in Italy: An Ongoing 
Discourse for the Nineties. Ed. Giovanna Miceli Jeffries. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P (forthcoming 1992). 

Anzaldua, Gloria. Borderlands/La frontera: The New Mestiza. San Francisco: 
Spinsters/Aunt Lute, 1987. 

Atwood, Margaret. Lady Oracle. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1976. 

Bhabha, Homi K. Nation and Narration. London: Routledge, 1990. 

Belli, Giuseppe Gioacchino. Er papa e li frati. Roma: Napoleone, 1988. 

Craig, Gordon. “‘Glesca Belongs to Me!’” The New York Review of Books 38.8 
(April 25, 1991): 12-18. 

Defoe, Daniel. The Life and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. Boston: Houghton 
Mifflin, 1968. 

Della Casa, Giovanni. Galateo. Torino: Einaudi, 1975. 

Eco, Umberto. The Name of the Rose. San Diego: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1983. 

Garcia M4rquez, Gabriel. One Hundred Years of Solitude. New York: Harper and Row, 
1970. 

Gupta, Akhil. “The Song of the Nonaligned World: Transnational Identities and the 
Reinscription of Space in Late Capitalism.” Cultural Anthropology 7.1 
(forthcoming 1992). 











Postmodernity in Pieve di Soligo 253 


and James Ferguson. “Beyond ‘Culture’: Space, Identity, and the Politics of 

Difference.” Cultural Anthropology 7.1 (forthcoming 1992). 

Haller, Hermann. The Hidden Italy: Two Centuries of Italian Dialect Poetry. Detroit: 
Wayne State UP, 1986. 

Kaufman, Philip, dir. The Unbearable Lightness of Being. Based on Milan Kundera’s 
The Unbearable Lightness of Being. N.Y.: Orion Home Video, 1988. 

Kundera, Milan. The Unbearable Lightness of Being. New York: Harper and Row, 
1984. 

McGowan, John. Postmodernism and its Critics. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1991. 

Ousmane, Sembene. Xala. Westport: L. Hill, 1976. 

Pasolini, Pier Paolo. Poesie a Casarsa. Bologna: Libreria Antiquaria, 1942. 

Porta, Carlo Antonio. Poesie scelte. Torino: UTET, 1964. 

Powell, Colin. Kant’s Theory of Self-Consciousness. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1990. 

Pred, Allen. Making Histories and Constructing Human Geographies. Boulder: 
Westview Press, 1990. 

Rosaldo, Renato. Culture and Truth: The Remaking of Social Analysis. Boston: 
Beacon Press, 1989. 

Rushdie, Salman. The Satanic Verses. London: Viking, 1988. 

Stampa, Gaspara. Rime. Milano: Rizzoli, 1976. 

Soja, Edward W. Postmodern Geographies: The Reassertion of Space in Critical 
Social Theory. London: Verso, 1989. 

Vattimo, Gianni. The End of Modernity. Cambridge: Polity, 1988. 

Watt, Ian. The Rise of the Novel. Berkeley: The U of California P, 1979. 

Welle, John. The Poetry of Andrea Zanzotto. Roma: Bulzoni, 1987. 

Zanzotto, Andrea. Dietro il paesaggio. Milano: Mondadori, 1951. 

. Elegia e altri versi. Milano: Mondadori, 1954. 

. Vocativo. Milano: Mondadori, 1957. 

. IX ecloghe. Milano: Mondadori, 1962. 

. Filo. Venezia: Edizioni del Ruzante, 1976. 

. Il galateo in bosco. Milano: Mondadori, 1978. 

. Fosfeni. Milano: Mondadori, 1983. 

. Idioma. Milano: Mondadori, 1986. 





Emilio Speciale 


Post-moderno o neo-classicismo? 
Patrizia Valduga 

e il ritorno alle forme metriche 
nella recente poesia italiana 





1. La crisi della neo-avanguardia negli anni ’70 ha rimesso in gioco le carte della 
poesia che da allora in poi hanno subito un continuo rimescolamento. 
All’osservatore interessato si  presentato un ampio panorama di tentativi che 
difficilmente possono caratterizzarsi con una sigla unica. Se poi abbiamo 
bisogno di sigle. Le formule che sono state adottate per evidenziare alcune 
tendenze sono cosi vischiose e di poco respiro che, se non si vuole fare del 
giornalismo, bisogna proprio astenersene. Ed in realta é stato fatto tanto 
giornalismo sulla poesia negli ultimi vent’anni: pagine di quotidiani hanno 
accolto cronache di performance poetiche oramai passate nella memoria 
collettiva, spesso si sono letti articoli anche ben informati sulle nuove 
esperienze poetiche.! La poesia é uscita fuori (ma poi da dove?) e se n’é parlato 
molto: il fenomeno pid appariscente @ stato quello delle letture pubbliche. 
Questa nuova situazione della poesia ha smantellato alcune costruzioni teoriche 
proposte dalla neo-avanguardia. Tra 1l’altro: la postulata assenza dell’io, ora 
presente sulla scena in carne e ossa + voce, l’opacita semantica, ora invece 
necessita della comunicazione richiesta dalla presenza sempre pill massiva e 
partecipante del pubblico. 

Su questa seconda direttiva, cioé la pressione esterna che la poesia si faccia 
pid comunicabile, credo possa collocarsi la spinta che ha caratterizzato il 
panorama scritturale degli ultimi vent’anni. A riprova di cid mi sembra un fatto 
eclatante nella sua macroscopicita che una delle industrie librarie pit forti in 
Italia, la Garzanti, benemerita per quanto riguarda la poesia, si sia messa a 
proporre e continui a proporre al pubblico edizioni complete della produzione di 
grandi poeti, che durante la ventata neo-avanguardista avevano accostato i battenti 


1 Si veda ad esempio l’articolo di Fortunato. Non é un caso che nel 1988 sia uscita una rivista 
mensile, Poesia, che vuole portare ad un pubblico pid ampio il dibattito contemporaneo e la 
produzione poetica. Prima direttrice di questa rivista @ stata Patrizia Valduga, mentre attuale 
direttore € Maurizio Cucchi. 





Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 255 


per cucire i loro versi nel buio delle loro camerette.? Non che fossero ibernati ma 
certo isolati, e non che non partecipassero dell’intemperie, anzi spesso si 
possono riscontrare interessanti richiami nella loro poesia a quello che la neo- 
avanguardia stava facendo. Per fare i nomi, basta qui pensare a Caproni, Luzi, 
Sereni, Penna, Bertolucci, ecc.: insomma una generazione precisa di poeti che si 
formarono in un clima di post-ermetismo e quindi di necessaria apertura 
comunicativa.? La quale si accentua poi proprio quando, dopo lo scontro con le 
sperimentazioni linguistiche della neo-avanguardia, questi poeti hanno sentito 
l’urgenza di una maggiore apertura e polifonicita: si pensi all’ultimo Caproni, si 
pensi al successo de La camera da letto di Bertolucci uscita nella prima parte da 
Garzanti nel 1984. Qui il poeta tenta una sorta di poema epico seguendo una 
chiara direttiva narrativa: non per nulla il libro @ sottotitolato Romanzo 
famigliare [al modo antico]. 

La presenza di questi poeti, ed il loro successo in termini di diffusione, ha 
creato un clima diverso da quello, aggressivo verso il linguaggio, della neo- 
avanguardia. Sono questi poeti pill portati verso la cantabilita del dettato poetico, 
verso la valorizzazione della parola piena, scelta con cura, verso soprattutto una 
limpidezza e trasparenza semantica. Il ritorno di questa generazione di poeti, che 
in realta ha sempre continuato a scrivere, anche se ora sono passati per cosi dire 
dagli scaffali alla vetrina, ha indotto un cambiamento di poetica generale 
conducente ad una sorta di riappacificazione tra il poeta ed il suo lettore. Le 
nuove generazioni hanno sentito l’urgenza di aprirsi maggiormente verso il 
pubblico e non soltanto verso quelli che una volta si chiamavano, e spero non si 
usi pid, “addetti ai lavori”. Il bisogno della comunicabilita significa anche che 
non si pud piii scrivere soltanto per un piccolo cerchio di intendenti: il gruppo 
che tendenzialmente si trasforma in accademia, luogo chiuso di circolazione della 
cultura. Ma non solo le nuove generazioni hanno riflettuto su queste 
problematiche ma anche i poeti di area novissima, i pit provveduti, si sono in 
quest’atmosfera risolti per una apertura verso forme di maggiore trasparenza 
semantica. Si pensi all’ultimo Porta, alle ultime cose di Sanguineti in 
particolare al Novissimum testamentum, si pensi anche all’invenzione ironica e 
commediante della Signorina Richmond di Balestrini.4 

Un primo segnale preciso di questo nuovo clima si trova ad esempio 
nell’introduzione di Tomaso Kemeny ad un libro che riporta gli interventi ad un 
dibattito sulle tendenze della poesia organizzato al Club Turati di Milano 


2 Bisogna qui dire che un certo influsso ebbe l’antologia di Mengaldo La poesia del Novecento, 
che nell’introduzione aveva ridimensionato l’esperienza neo-avanguardista, rivalutando invece i 
poeti post-ermetici. 

3 Basti qui accennare in nota anche al Montale degli anni *70. 

4 primo libro de Le ballate della signorina Richmond usci nel 1977. Quattro di queste ballate 
si trovano gia nelle Ballate distese, che sono del 1975. Nel 1987 sono uscite altre due raccolte 
intitolate La signorina Richmond va in esilio e Il ritorno della signorina Richmond. 


256 Emilio Speciale 
nell’aprile del 1978: 


il seminario ha avuto come risultato, in gran parte prevedibile, lo svuotamento del 
concetto di “avanguardia”, “neo-avanguardia” ecc., termini impraticabili se riferiti 
alla poesia degli anni ’70. . . . Parte significativa dei poeti “nuovi” stabilisce nel 
proprio testo (relativamente agli anni ’60 dei “novissimi” ecc.) un rapporto pit 
rilassato con i destinatari virtuali. Questo desiderio di ritorno alla comunicazione, al 
rituale @ segnalato anche da operazioni che si svolgono in margine alla scrittura 
poetica. . . . Prima il testo veniva esibito in silenzio e il singolo fruitore poteva 
acquistarlo. . . . oggi il testo viene, con frequenza significativa, anche agito, in modo 
irreversibile nel tempo “dell’esecuzione pubblica”, gli intervenuti alla 
manifestazione ne diventano i depositari-testimoni. 


(6-7) 


Kemeny definisce la tendenza della poesia di quegli anni come “nuova 
comunicazione”, sottolineando appunto la necessita che si provava, almeno dalla 
seconda meta degli anni Settanta, di raggiungere un lettore. 

Questa tendenza ha trovato ultimamente, dopo una prima ondata 
d’accoglienza favorevole e decisa, molti critici che hanno visto in essa il riflesso 
di istanze spiccatamente regressive nella societa italiana. Mi riferisco in modo 
particolare all’antologia Poesia italiana della contraddizione a cura di Franco 
Cavallo e Mario Lunetta, il quale nell’introduzione ha osservato:> 


La neoconservazione in poesia si @ espressa in questi anni soprattutto attraverso 
l’enunciazione e la pratica del principio dell’irresponsabilita assoluta del poeta nei 
confronti del linguaggio in quanto agente carico di determinazioni storico-sociali. 
Puro emittente di messaggi emotivo-suggestivi, il poeta @ stato proposto con 
pervicacia come figura impegnata esclusivamente in rapporto alla Grazia... . 
Intimismo e celebrazione del Soggetto Patetico, spontaneismo e emotivita, 
neocontenutismo “ermetico-simbolista” la caratterizzano, in un “orizzonte d’attesa” 
che aspira al coinvolgimento e all’identificazione in termini di emozioni e di canto 
finalmente “liberato”, drammatizzato in una dialettica ontologica di Gioia-Dolore in 
modi non storicizzanti e critici ma irrelati e catastrofici. 

(13-14) 


Non é@ comunque facile delineare quali siano state le spinte esterne a favorire 


5 Il contrasto oltre che di poetiche @ anche di differenti aree geografiche: gli antologizzati in 
questo volume gravitano quasi tutti attomo a Roma, mentre i poeti “neoconservatori” gravitano 
attomno a Milano. Mai come adesso si registra almeno in poesia un contrasto cosi netto 
geograficamente. Mi sembra comunque che questi autori che vogliono continuare la strada della 
neo-avanguardia, anche se a leggere attentamente poi spuntano ancora una volta delle voci 
individuali notevoli, non presentino ancora, anche se @ troppo presto dirlo, un progetto 
vincente. Da Milano infatti credo che arrivi per adesso, favorita anche dall’industria, la poesia 
pil interessante. 


Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 257 


questa ansia di comunicazione nella poesia degli ultimi vent’anni. S’é parlato del 
riflusso politico-economico, del rifugio nel privato, della ristrutturazione 
capitalistica: e non ci sono dubbi che I’Italia di questi ultimi tempi ha subito 
delle grandi trasformazioni sociologiche. Ma mi sembra difficile dire se ad 
esempio Piccola colazione di Paolo Ruffilli (1987), che ha ottenuto un notevole 
successo negli anni scorsi, possa essere omologata a cid che sta succedendo in 
Italia, una societa che mostra sempre pill spaccature e contraddizioni. Né che, 
prima ancora, La parola innamorata (1978) rappresentasse uno specchio sincero 
della condizione sociale dell’Italia rappacificata e addomesticata nelle punte di 
lotta operaria, insomma il riflusso. C’é solo da dire che in maniera macroscopica 
i poeti pil recenti hanno la chiara coscienza della impossibilita di essere 
rappresentati o rappresentanti. C’@ anzi un’avversione da parte delle nuove 
generazioni ad appartenere al gruppo o ad essere siglati con una formula 
collettivizzante: assistiamo insomma al ritorno alla voce isolata. Ecco che in 
questo punto credo possiamo vedere come s’incontrino societa macro e societa 
micro dei poeti. Si erode sempre pit in Italia il concetto di rappresentabilita 
politica del soggetto, si erode anche in poesia la necessita di presentarsi come 
portatori di una sigla o come fautori di un partito poetico.® Quello che conta 
sempre pit é la validita della voce individuale, l’evocazione di una esperienza 
privata. 

Un altro fenomeno interessante degli ultimi anni é stata l’apparizione di 
seminari e scuole di scrittura creativa. Se quindi da un lato si é accentuato il 
Carattere individuale del fare poesia, la voce unica contro la poetica di gruppo, si 
é venuto d’altra parte a riconoscere che la poesia non si produce semplicemente 
col mettere gil’ stati d’animo, ecc., ma con una sapienza tecnica precisa. 
Sintomatica l’apparizione nel 1988 di un Manuale del poeta compilato da un 
giovane scrittore che fa parte di questa generazione di “poeti nuovi”. Mi riferisco 
al libro di Mario Santagostini pubblicato da Mondadori nella cui introduzione 
firmata da Maurizio Cucchi fra l’altro leggiamo: 


A lungo si é guardato con diffidenza da parte del lettore potenziale e medio, da parte a 
volte dello stesso poeta o aspirante poeta, all’opera della tradizione. Oggi, che il 
moderno sembra finito, e divenuto esso stesso tradizione, non é pil cosi. Si é capito 
che il cammino non puo prevedere un superamento delle fasi precedenti, né tanto 
meno un progresso inarrestabile. Si é capito che la continuita rispetto al passato é pid 
vitale e importante della sua negazione: il passato @ comunque presente, in modo pit 
© meno esplicito, in ogni forma di espressione contemporanea. E d’altra parte ogni 


6 Un fenomeno recentissimo che mi preme qui ricordare é@ la formazione nel 1989, dopo un 
convegno a Lecce in cui si sono presentati le “Tesi”, del Gruppo 93, che si sta organizzando 
verso proposte di critica della poesia neo-romantica espressa dai poeti, e da poeti della stessa 
generazione e tendenze, apparsi ne La parola innamorata. Alcuni poeti di questo gruppo si 
trovano antologizzati da Cavallo e Lunetta nell’opera citata. 


258 Emilio Speciale 


poeta non pud che nascere sulle basi di una tradizione. Un merito di questo libro é 
anche quello di farlo capire in concreto, di far capire come non esista una differenza di 
natura tra la poesia studiata a scuola e quella che oggi si va facendo. E come, al tempo 
stesso, non sia possibile entrare nella poesia d’oggi, nei suoi meccanismi, senza 
un’esperienza fatta in proprio della poesia della tradizione, che é un patrimonio 
enorme che corre lungo i secoli, e arriva a noi sempre diverso eppure intatto. Ma, per 
fare questo, occorre provvedersi di una particolare dimestichezza con 1 materiali e, 
appunto, i meccanismi costitutivi elementari della poesia. 

(vi-vii) 


C’é quindi un preciso movimento verso il recupero delle forme tradizionali di 
scrittura poetica al di 14 della rottura, postulata come necessaria dall’ideologia 
romantica, del legame con la tradizione. Questo recupero ha significato anche una 
maggiore disponibilita da parte del poeta di comunicare meglio con il lettore: 
non @ semplicemente una forma di esibizionismo saper mettere insieme degli 
endecasillabi che vanno a costituire un sonetto. Da un altro punto di vista, il 
ritorno alle forme metriche tradizionali ha un significato preciso: credo che sia il 
riflesso, ma non so quanto cosciente, di una sorta di difesa/attacco contro la 
omologazione della nostra societa di tutte le arti, contro l’esteticizzazione diffusa, 
contro la faciloneria di indicare con poesia tanti prodotti verbali e non-verbali. 
Insomma contro l’usurpazione e diffusione di poeticita, il ritorno invece alle 
forme classiche ricompone i confini di cid che é poesia e cid che non é. E un 
modo di rifare i connotati a qualcosa che |’ideologia moderna, fino alle punte 
estreme dell’avanguardia, ha totalmente sfigurato. 

Ma questa tendenza a recuperare le forme tradizionali pone un problema: 
scrivere poesia significa quindi esclusivamente utilizzare delle regole metriche 
fisse? E i testi che non presentano tratti metrici non sono poesia? Se fosse 
questo il caso ci troveremmo veramente in una situazione di terrorismo culturale 
oO di pieno riflusso aristocratico. Infatti nell’epoca modema si é fatta strada l’idea 
che le forme classiche escludono tanti dalla pratica e anche dalla lettura di poesia. 
Tuttavia la parola poetica vive in questa nostra epoca una estrema solitudine, e 
l’unico e solo momento in cui il lettore medio viene esposto ad essa é tra i 
banchi di scuola dove regna prevalentemente la poesia classica. Tornare quindi 
alle forme tradizionali ha lo scopo di riavvicinare il lettore medio, fermo all’eta 
della scuola, proprio con quelle forme a cui é stato abituato. Inoltre dalla parte 
del poeta produttore |’uso di forme metriche comporta anche un restringimento 
dell’uso di materiale lessicale e quindi una concentrazione sui valori semantici 
della parola. Metrica significa innanzitutto iterazione di certe strutture e ritomno di 
certi valori fonici che si riflettono anche su un accrescimento di significato, 
come tanta semiotica letteraria ci ha fatto capire. Le strutture metriche quindi 
invece di allontanare il lettore dalla poesia come si pensava in epoca moderna, 








Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 259 


riavvicinano il testo al lettore, naturalmente al lettore istruito.’? L’autore infine 
deve dare “senso” a strutture che gli vengono dal di fuori, e deve costringere il 
proprio dettato ad essere ancora comunicativo nella ripetizione. 


2. Durante tutto l’arco del Novecento il problema del ritorno alle forme 
tradizionali non si era mai posto cosi acutamente come sembra stia accadendo in 
questi ultimi anni. Si pud anzi affermare che il Novecento é l’unico secolo in cui 
non esista un fenomeno di classicismo o neo-classicismo che dir si voglia. Un 
primo attacco contro i sistemi metrici era stato sferrato dall’avanguardia storica la 
quale comunque pit che puntare alle forme mirava ad eliminare il ricorso ad un 
simbolismo romantico. L’attacco di Marinetti (“Dopo il verso libero, ecco 
finalmente le parole in liberta!”) era concentrato pit sulla linearita del dettato 
poetico che sulla struttura metrica la quale era gia stata smantellata dai diversi 
tentativi dei grandi poeti di fine Ottocento. Il dato di fatto ¢ che non esistono 
pit, diciamo dopo il Pascoli, forme tradizionali usabili. Tuttavia non sono state 
completamente rimosse ma hanno subito una trasformazione cosi radicale che 
anche quando vengono utilizzate non sono pil! immediatamente riconoscibili. 
Questa credo sia la tendenza novecentesca: adoperare le forme tradizionali senza 
pero farle affiorare in superficie o addirittura nominarle. Spesso si sono usati i 
termini tradizionali di sonetto, ballata, ecc. come titolo o sottotitolo di qualche 
poesia che in realta non presenta per nulla i tratti canonici di tali forme. Per 
richiamare alla mente alcuni fenomeni si pensi ad esempio in maniera 
micrologica all’uso dell’endecasillabo in Ungaretti e Montale. O si pensi all’uso 
in Saba del sonetto, quasi irriconoscibile.® O ancora ai Sonetti dell’ anniversario 
di Caproni dei primi anni ’40, in cui il testo é continuo senza separazione delle 
quartine e delle terzine. 

Proprio questa forma tipicamente ancorata alla tradizione italiana ha avuto 
nell’arco del Novecento una fortuna costante.? Negli ultimi decenni poi abbiamo 
assistito ad un ri-uso fortunato di questa forma, sia accettata nelle sue strutture 


7 Mi preme qui ricordare come negli ultimi anni il dibattito sulla pratica e l’insegnamento della 
poesia, e in generale della letteratura, a scuola sia stato forse il fenomeno pid interessante e 
appassionante che ha visto dibattere tanti critici ora che la teoria letteraria & sempre pid 
dormiente. Per quanto riguarda la poesia si tenga presente il fatto che il giovane studente si 
affaccia al mondo della letteratura proprio facendo una scorpacciata di poesia in forma 
tradizionale. Lo studente impara a riconoscere immediatamente le forme della poesia almeno le 
pit semplici. I settori pid avanzati nell’ambito della pedagogia hanno allora accentuato questo 
aspetto della tecnologia poetica, della riconoscibilita ed anche dell’uso delle forme tradizionali. 
Basti qui ricordare l’enorme successo di un libricino delizioso quale Calicanto di Zamponi e 

Piumini e l’utilissimo e aggiomato manuale di Bertocchi e Lugarini, Guida alla poesia. 

A proposito dei sonetti di Autobiografia Montale aveva detto che siamo in presenza di una 
“riduzione all’assurdo del sonetto tradizionale”. Si veda 1’introduzione a Saba nell’antologia del 
Mengaldo gia citata. 

Si veda il saggio di Marazzini, Revisione ed eversione metrica. 


260 Emilio Speciale 


canoniche, sia sconvolta. Zanzotto ad esempio introduce una collana di sonetti al 
centro del suo Galateo in bosco, collana intitolata “Ipersonetto” perché composta 
da 14 sonetti, che dovrebbero ciascuno corrispondere ad un verso del sonetto 
tradizionale, pid una “Premessa” ed una “Postilla”.!° In questa collana il poeta 
non solo avvicina la forma della tradizione, ma anche gli autori della tradizione, 
in particolare i maggiori “sonettisti” da Petrarca ai Petrarchisti, in una sfida che 
va, come ha sottolineato molto bene il Welle, da un dovuto omaggio ad una 
parodia. Zanzotto utilizza comunque la forma sonetto nella sua canonicita per 
veicolare i suoi consueti messaggi di rottura e di sperimentazione sul linguaggio. 
Ancora pili radicale appropriazione della forma tradizionale troviamo in Balestrini 
di [pocalisse, una raccolta di “49 sonetti” (cosi il sottotitolo) pubblicata da 
Scheiwiller nel 1986. In questo volumetto la tradizione viene completamente 
negata, e il poeta tenta di riformulare la struttura stessa della forma canonica. Si 
veda ad esempio la poesia 14, nella sua forma similissima a tutte le altre: 


questo é tutto 

per ora 

in questo momento 

é come se 

fossimo gia 

invece siamo 

appena 

e cid che & 

pit strano é 

che uno non se 

lo immagina bene 

dove potrebbe 

essere arrivata 

la lunga traversata 
(27) 


Quello che in questa poesia resta della forma tradizionale é il numero dei versi 
(14), mentre tutti gli altri elementi vengono cancellati. Manca per ogni verso il 
secondo emistichio e la rima, e il lettore @ tentato a ricomporre la forma 
tradizionale: un tentativo naturalmente destinato al fallimento. Chiamando queste 
composizioni sonetti, Balestrini vuole mettere in crisi lo statuto stesso delle 
forme canonizzate richiamando I’attenzione sull’impossibilita di ri-usare queste 
forme o sulla necessita di ripensarle. 

Su questa stessa linea si pone anche Pier Carlo Ponzini nella sua 
recentissima raccolta Trenta sonetti. Qui gia la forma é esibita fin dal titolo ed ad 


10 Rimando per una fine analisi a Welle, The Poetry of Andrea Zanzotto, in modo particolare al 
capitolo IV (The Poetry of Tradition and Experimentation: Zanzotto's Petrarchism as Parodic 
Homage). 


Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 261 


apertura di libro l’attesa del lettore é puntata verso |’apparizione della forma 
canonica. Ma anche qui l’unico tratto metrico pertinente rispetto al sonetto resta 
la presenza numerica di quattordici versi. Fra |’altro la composizione tipografica 
confonde anche questo semplice dato che si tratta di poesie di quattordici versi, 
essendo questi versi estremamente lunghi e quindi riportati a capo con il segno / 
e sarebbe stato meglio forse comporre orizzontalmente la pagina. Trascrivo, 
mantenendo i segni grafici, i primi tre versi del sonetto 29 (pag. 56): 


Si, non ci penso pil! — mi cerco un altro — / non perché 
[creda / che tu non tornerai, / non per vendetta, 
farti ingelosire / (farti morire come tu mi uccidi), essere 
[libero, decidermi, tradire (ancorché certo 
tradire non é male — é bene, / se tu sei traditore), 
[imbastardire, che pure é virtt cara 
(56) 


In Ponzini piu che la tradizione italiana classica, si affaccia la tradizione del verso 
lungo alla Blake, tra l’altro segnalato dalla quarta di copertina, e di autori 
novissimi come Pagliarani e Sanguineti. 

Ma pili che moltiplicare gli esempi di ritorno delle forme tradizionali, 
bisogna qui ripensare che cosa significa questa necessita di “rifare il verso”. 
Caratterizza la nuova poesia la coscienza che non si puo essere sempre sulla linea 
della devianza dalla lingua, che non sempre la poesia costituisce semplicemente 
uno scarto dalle norme.!! Ritorno alle forme tradizionali significa innanzi tutto 
che bisogna pensare al fare poesia in termini di imitazione di un modello gia dato 
e quindi di classicismo.'2 Ma da questo luogo della memoria letteraria non 


11 Alcune riflessioni di Merola sembrano qui opportune: “salutiamo con maggior soddisfazione 
proprio questa pacifica rivolta della poesia contro la dittatura del progresso linguistico, contro 
V’obbligo di applicarsi soltanto alla ricerca del nuovo e contro la possibilita di misurare i 
progressi compiuti in termini puramente linguistici, di una descrittiva linguistica che non nega 
a nessuno una sua identita ma incoraggia chiunque a una scelta astrattistica come a quella capace 
di meglio evidenziare la cosidetta autonomia del significante. I nodi del Novecento letterario 
sono venuti al pettine, da quando i lettori, e con loro i critici che li considerano interlocutori da 
non trascurare e anzi parti in causa di primo piano, non subiscono pil passivamente il ricatto 
terroristico della tradizione del nuovo, per cui l’illegibilita di oggi discende dall’illegibilita di 
ieri, a sua volta autorizzata da quella ‘storica‘ delle origini del Modemo e delle nebbie che le 
circondano” (Il poeta e la poesia 22-23). Il volume raccoglie gli atti di un importante convegno 
tenutosi all’universita “La Sapienza” di Roma 1’8-10 Febbraio del 1982. A questo convegno 
erano presenti i maggiori poeti italiani della generazione di Caproni, Bertolucci, ecc., dei 
Novissimi e delle nuove generazioni. Riguardo ai problemi che sto affrontando in questo saggio 
(morte della neo-avanguardia, nuova comunicazione, ecc.) si vedano in particolar modo gli 
interventi di Sanguineti e altri nelle pp. 161-69. 

12 sy queste problematiche alcuni poeti nuovi e diversi critici hanno riflettuto nei saggi raccolti 
da Copioli in Tradizioni della poesia italiana contemporanea. 


262 Emilio Speciale 


provengono altro che frammenti, come ha sottolineato un grande studioso di 
questo fenomeno in area cinquecentesca, Amedeo Quondam: 


Del suo aureo corpus non restano — oggi — che frammentarie, irriconoscibili, 
membra disjecta. Da sistema iperconnotante, la tradizione é diventata — fin anche 
nell’uso comune: stereotipo, una delle dominanti doxai — semplice, automatico, 
compiuto, irrecuperabile disvalore. 

(67) 


Nella nostra breve e limitata campionatura, abbiamo visto come alcuni autori del 
Novecento recuperino la forma sonetto appartenente al codice classicismo per 
adattarla a esigenze proprie. Ma questa forma é stata tanto svuotata dei suoi 
caratteri specifici (una poesia di quattordici versi non basta per definire un 
sonetto) che difficilmente possiamo dire di trovarci ancora all’interno del codice 
classicismo. Anche nei casi in cui la forma viene recuperata nella sua interezza, 
come ad esempio ancora in Caproni o Saba, il codice classicistico viene stravolto 
in vari modi: adottando ad esempio una sintassi spezzata, ignorando il limite 
dell’endecasillavo e servendosi quindi di enjambement, ecc. Bisogna infatti 
distinguere nettamente tra scelta poetica di usare forme metriche della tradizione, 
come espediente ad esempio di distanziamento dal codice linguistico ordinario, e 
scelta poetica di ri-uso della parola classica con tutta la sua sintassi e retorica. 
Quondam, caratterizzando meglio il rapporto della scrittura classicistica con il 
suo modello, afferma: 


Questa lingua senza epoche @ un monumento fatto di parole-pietre, resistenti all’usura 
e ai secoli proprio perché remote dall’uso quotidiano: uno dei primi vocabolari 
cinquecenteschi, un organico repertorio delle voci di Petrarca e Boccaccio, si intitola 
esattamente Fabrica del mondo. Lessico pietrificato, forme marmorizzate, in una 
dimensione costruttiva di perdita della temporalita: @ questa la peculiare caratteristica, 
tutta italiana, della lingua letteraria, la modalita esclusiva del rapporto fra la 
Tradizione e la Lirica. I percorsi possibili all’interno di questa fabrica del mondo sono 
necessariamente inscritti dentro una griglia sempre citazionale: ogni atto di scrittura 
si formula come atto combinatorio. La scrittura del classicismo é@ istituzionalmente di 
seconda mano. Ed é ancor questo un elemento proprio dell’orgoglio d’ogni tradizione: 
la reciprocita che nel suo sistema culturale si evidenzia tra ripetere e inventare. 

(77) 


Rispetto quindi ai tentativi di alcuni poeti del Novecento di servirsi delle forme 
tradizionali, immettendo in esse materia e sintassi contemporanea, le proposte 
recenti di recupero archeologico di queste “parole pietre” rappresentano una 
riproblematizzazione del rapporto con la tradizione. 


3. Nel 1982 appare una raccolta di poesie intitolata Medicamenta di una giovane 
poetessa che attrae subito l’attenzione di diversi critici. Perché rispetto alla 


Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 263 


poesia che si va facendo di continua rottura dei piani sintattico e semantico, 
questa poesia si presenta ordinata in schemi metrici facilmente riconoscibili e 
con un linguaggio che mescola le “parole pietre” della nostra tradizione lirica con 
una tematica estremamente contemporanea. Patrizia Valduga si presenta come 
fautrice in prima linea di una poetica di recupero delle forme tradizionali, a 
suggerire che la pratica moderna della lingua spezzata non resiste pil ai tempi in 
cui viviamo. Che solo l’inautenticita di quelle forme @ ancora capace di 
trasmettere l’autenticita di un’esperienza personale.!4 

La sua prima raccolta si compone di tre sezioni (“Notti dei sensi”, “Notti 
incolori”, “Notti mancate”) in cui si esperiscono varie forme metriche: il 
sonetto, la sonettessa, l’ottava (tutta la seconda sezione), brevi frammenti. Nella 
seconda edizione di questa fortunata raccolta si aggiungono altri sonetti e due 
sestine. Le forme tradizionali vengono adoperate dalla poetessa seguendo 
fedelmente le regole metriche. I sonetti ad esempio presentano nelle quartine la 
rigida struttura ABAB/ABAB ed ABBA/ABBA con sole due eccezioni 
(ABBA/BAAB, pag. 8, non rara nella tradizione lirica italiana) e ABCD/CDAB 
(21). Le terzine invece sono le pili varie secondo appunto il canone che dava pit 
liberta al poeta in questa parte di chiusura della poesia. La stessa fedelta al metro 
tradizionale si riscontra nelle due sonettesse (17; 58) con ripetizione nella coda, 
composta da un settenario e due endecasillabi, delle rime dell’ ultima terzina. 
Perfette sono le sestine coll’uso canonico del ritorno delle parole-rima secondo 
una struttura a retrogradazione a croce, pit la chiusa di tre versi in cui riappaiono 
le sei parole-rima. Lo stesso dicasi delle otto ottave nella variante toscana con sei 
endecasillabi a rime alternate e due finali a rime baciate che costituiscono la 
seconda parte del volume. Si veda questo esempio: 


O datemi qualcuno che mi ascolti, 
ché di parole straripo . . . qualcuno 
che mi prenda per mano e dei sepolti 
dei fatti polvere e niente al raduno 
mi porti. . . di occhi ho paura... di volti... 
Non mi restava ormai niente e nessuno, 
e come sanguinando intorno intorno 
pesantemente in me cadeva il giorno. 
(36) 


Se si escludono quindi alcuni frammenti che fanno da cerniera tra le varie poesie, 


13 | volumi della Valduga che sto per discutere sono: Medicamenta; La tentazione; Medicamenta 
ed altri medicamenta (1989; cito sempre da questa seconda edizione); Donna di dolori. Voglio 
specificare che le analisi che seguiranno non vogliono essere un giudizio critico sulla poetessa, 
che si rimanda ad altra sede. Le opere della Valduga saranno quindi considerate, pit: che nel loro 
essere “monumento”, nel loro aspetto di “documento” di alcune tendenze contemporanee. 


264 Emilio Speciale 


ma frammenti canonicamente in forma di settenari e endecasillabi, tutta la 
raccolta segue con rigore le forme piu praticate della tradizione lirica italiana. La 
Valduga si cimenta anche in alcuni pezzi di maestria metrica come il sonetto 
monorimatico (pp. 14 — con tante rime interne —, 78, 81) e un sonetto (pag. 
73) rimato normalmente ma con tutte le parole in rima che presentano identica 
assonanza: stipi, cibi, costipi, libi; principi, prelibi, straripi, allibi; annidi, riti, 
sfidi; deicidi, inferiti, confidi. Rispetto quindi ai cauti avvicinamenti dei poeti del 
Novecento alle forme tradizionali, colla Valduga ci troviamo in un altro ambito: 
si tratta di una accettazione completa del canone metrico, un volere cancellare 
l’esperienza metrica moderna riallacciandosi al classicismo italiano. Si potrebbe 
quindi definire la ricerca della poetessa come I’unico vero tentativo di classicismo 
che abbiamo avuto in questo secolo, se per classicismo intendiamo imitazione di 
un modello sia per quanto riguarda le forme, sia per quanto riguarda i contenuti. 

Ancora pil pertinente si fa questa affermazione se dal livello metrico 
passiamo infatti a considerare le scelte stilistiche e lessicali. Nel leggere queste 
poesie si ha la sensazione di precipitare indietro di alcuni secoli e precisamente e 
decisamente nell’ambito del Petrarchismo cinquecentesco, che condividendo le 
parole di Quondam, costituisce gia di per sé una scrittura di seconda mano. 
Qualche estratto pud bastare: 


Qual mai sara 1’anno, il mese, qual giorno 


(9) 


amor non muta e muta mi trascino 


(11) 
Dei superni desiri ecco la squilla 

(19) 
di mie doglie, lagnanze e lai 

(23) 
Amor m’impiaga ma mi sto armando 

(42) 
a: era wralaeia alee oe ene Rie gala aie O notte, 
che su di me t’inarchi e mi tormenti 

(49) 


Risaltano da queste schegge I’uso del parallelismo caro alla scrittura petrarchesca, 
citazioni facili dal corpus del Canzoniere, tonalita tipiche della poesia del 
Cinquecento. Soprattutto viene da pensare alla poesia malinconica di Gaspara 
Stampa (il suo costante rivolgersi all’amato sfuggente, l’irruenza nella sua 
poesia di un io sofferente e confuso) e di Michelangelo (la sua poesia notturna). 





Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 265 


Citiamo un sonetto monorimato, l’ultimo della raccolta, che mette in evidenza 
queste ascendenze (si veda ad esempio la ripresa da Michelangelo di ““O ombra del 
morire”):!4 


Signore caro, tu vedi il mio stato, 

vedi che ho l’avvenire nel passato, 
e questo rotto scoppiato e crepato. 
Vita non sono mia, ma del peccato. 


O notte senza oggetti, dal tuo lato, 
dove non corre tempo, io ho cercato 
una gioia lontana dal mercato 

del giorno che m’imbara, disensato. 


O ombra del morire, se in agguato 
alla memoria chiami il tempo andato, 
lo chiami come un sogno gia sognato, 


su un amore che zoppo é sempre andato, 
né medica la morte, se é malato, 
se vive come un morto sotterrato.!5 
(81) 


Ma ci sono punte nella Valduga di invenzione lessicale molto vicina a quella dei 
marinisti: dissorte (contrario di consorte, pag. 11), ingrifa e disgroppa (pag. 17), 
invanisce (pag.18), dilomba (pag. 70), ecc. Mi sembra comunque completamente 
erroneo collocare la poesia della Valduga nell’area d’influsso barocco, come 
alcuni critici si sono precipitati a fare. Non @ presente in questa poesia 
l’attenzione per oggetti concreti che caratterizza tanta poesia barocca, la quale era 
fra l’altro aliena dal mettere in campo la propria esperienza autobiografica come é 
il caso della Valduga. E vero che molti giochi acrobatici colle parole fanno parte 
del codice barocco, ma questi non sono, come si é ritenuto per tanto tempo 
erroneamente, esclusiva di quella poesia. In tutta la tradizione lirica italiana si 
ritrovano poeti € poesie in cui sono accentuati questi giochi con le parole: il 
fenomeno del manierismo, se cosi vogliamo definirlo, non é un fenomeno 


14 Ha accennato a Michelangelo ed a Veronica Franco il Baldacci, profondo conoscitore del 
petrarchismo, nella sua introduzione, ma si dovrebbe condurre una ricerca pil minuziosa sulle 
fonti che la Valduga ha nascosto con tanta bravura. Credo tuttavia che la Valduga abbia fatto suo 
il codice petrarchesco e non si applichi semplicemente ad un gioco di citazioni culte ed occulte. 
15 & da sottolineare qui che oltre alla sua condizione esistenziale, la poetessa richiama 
l’attenzione al suo vivere questa condizione scritturale come inattualita: “l’avvenire nel 
passato”, “un sogno gia sognato”. Bisogna aggiungere che i brevi frammenti che si 
inframmettono alle poesie richiamano alla memoria la densité di alcuni frammenti 
michelangioleschi. 


266 Emilio Speciale 


esclusivo, né tantomeno caratterizzante, di quel periodo che chiamiamo 
barocco.!¢ La Valduga s’inserisce all’interno del codice classico-petrarchista, non 
in quello barocco. Si veda ad esempio come in una delle poesie pit artificiose il 
riferimento é@ alla poesia burchiellesca, che ebbe tanto successo editoriale nel 
’500, con un finale invece tutto della poetessa: 


Frissi d’amor con arte, d’amor scrissi 
senz’arte .. . rifritture di riflussi 
riscrissi . . . fuor d’ellissi: pissi pissi. 
In rime parossitone mi strussi. 


Scema, cosi, al naturale, abissi 
non sondai, né riflessi colsi o influssi, 
e sulla rena disfeci o costrussi. 


Risi, mi afflissi, mi rosi . . . Fui sussi, 
testa di turco e testa anche di cazzo, 
lessi assai e nulla trassi. . . Ti sconfissi 


© mio cuore, discussi dei tuoi flussi 
e sconquassi, li ressi in imbarazzo ... 
Vissi o non vissi? Se vissi, malvissi. 
(62) 


Il decimo verso di questo sonetto (“testa di turco e testa di cazzo”) ci porta a 
passare ad una sfera diversa che é quella dello scontro di questo codice classico 
con la tematica tutta contemporanea della poesia della Valduga. Innanzitutto al 
livello linguistico spesso appaiono all’interno del dettato tutto classicistico dei 
corpi estranei a quel mondo. Ad esempio: 


Quando sensuale sia la sera, quando 
ai sensi sale, in insidie che ho teso 
cadrai disteso per telecomando, 
mio bell’amore, d’un colpo, indifeso . . . 
(42) 


Ma piu che queste aperture verso il mondo contemporaneo, questo mescolamento 
di alto e basso, di aulico e quotidiano, stratagemma non alieno alla poesia del 
Novecento, colpisce nella poesia della Valduga lo stravolgimento del codice 
erotico che é il cuore del petrarchismo. L’eros entra in questa poesia senza 
passare attraverso nessuna censura. I limiti posti dal Petrarca nella nominazione 


16 gj veda, ma con cautela, il classico Hocke, // manierismo della lettratura, che fra 1’ altro 
accenna al poeta italiano, ancora vivente ma poco studiato, Edoardo Cacciatore. 


Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 267 


di parti erogene, e mantenute con piccole variazioni dai petrarchisti, ma 
scavalcati con tracotanza da antipetrarchisti come il Franco, sono qui ignorati. Si 
amplia quindi notevolmente il codice erotico, non con una semplice mossa 
iconoclasta e d’opposizione, ma con la naturalezza per cui bisogna nominare 
tutte le sfaccettature del rapporto amoroso, dallo spirituale al corporale. La 
provocazione e lo scandalo, se vogliamo cosi considerarlo, sta nell’aver fatto 
scontrare l’eros petrarchesco con |’eros del mondo contemporaneo senza che |’uno 
sia in opposizione all’altro. Ancora per negare il codice moderno rappresentato 
dall’eros romantico, del tutto assente nelle poesie della Valduga. Due codici uniti 
insieme, con qualche stridore inevitabile, proprio per sconfiggere quel codice 
erotico che ha dominato e domina nel mondo moderno. Si ha in poche parole 
non contrasto ma giustapposizione: uno accanto all’altro. Non che l’un codice 
serva per smascherare o parodiare |’altro, ma entrambi sostengono I’ intero dettato 
della Valduga. 

Nelle due raccolte seguenti la Valduga abbandona le forme che abbiamo 
visto fino ad ora e sperimenta altre forme sempre tenendo comunque presente la 
tradizione petrarchesca. Ne La tentazione la poetessa prova a misurarsi con la 
terzina dantesca. Si tratta di un poemetto di dieci canti tutti di trentatré terzine a 
rima incatenata, pil’ un verso di chiusura che rima con il penultimo verso della 
terzina precedente: come i canti di Dante. Il numero stesso di canti e terzine 
vuole suggerire in scala diversa un riferimento alla struttura della Comedia. La 
presenza di Dante s’era gia fatta sentire comunque in qualche passaggio nella 
prima raccolta. Ad esempio: 


Gravezza che al leggiadro cuore ratta 
s’apprende e con molestie si dilata 
(58) 


Qui mi sovvien l’usare un poco d’ arte 
(72) 


ma come si vede si tratta solo di minime reminiscenze. E a parte la struttura e 
qualche riferimento al mondo degli inferi, qui divenuto mondo d’incubi, non si 
trovano riferimenti evidenti al poema di Dante ne La tentazione. Proprio 
all’inizio del poemetto anzi siamo in presenza di un contesto molto simile a 
quello del Petrarca nei sonetti d’apertura del Canzoniere: 


In questa maledetta notte oscura 
con una tentazione fui assalita 
che ancora in cuore la vergogna dura. 


Io cosi pudica, cosi compita, 
vedevo un uomo a me venire piano 
e avvolgermi quasi avido la vita: 


268 Emilio Speciale 


un altro ne veniva e con la mano 
oh delicatamente lui mi apriva, 
e un altro e un altro ch’era vano 


a guerra apparecchiarmi d’armi priva, 
gia incatenata, e senza una catena, 
nel tempo che la vita non par viva. 


(13) 


Si ritrovano in questo poemetto alcuni motivi stilistici che abbiamo gia 
riscontrato nella precedente raccolta, ma qui, dato l’uso della terzina, il dettato si 
allarga a una pit distesa articolazione, fino ad assumere un andamento quasi 
narrativo. Spesso il discorso si muta in forma di dialogo in cui si contrastano la 
voce desolata della poetessa con quella del rincuorante amato. II discorso erotico 
cosi effervescente nella raccolta precedente si ritrae qui a minimi termini, mentre 
risalta ad ogni passo il tragico senso della vita. Circola un’aria notturna ¢ tetra, 
un continuo accarezzamento alla morte, un’aria insomma tipica — e questa volta 
sembra pit appropriato affermarlo — di certa prosa e poesia barocca. Tuttavia mi 
preme ancora far notare come sia difficile trovare nella poesia barocca poemi in 
terza rima. Abbiamo invece un esempio di poesie in questa forma nelle Terze 
rime di Veronica Franco, mentre una consonanza della poesia della Valduga si 
pud ritrovare ad esempio in questa chiusa del sonetto “Io penso talor meco 
quanto amaro” della Gaspara Stampa: 


dove, s’io fossi morta e posta in terra, 
si porria fin ad un tratto al dolore, 
ch’é vita morte che pit morti atterra. 


E si veda questa terzina della Valduga: 


mandami un sogno in cui mi fai l’amore, 
o una morte che sia soltanto mia, 
non quella grama che quaggit si muore. 


(56) 


Questa tragicita della condizione umana, ed é pit preciso dire della condizione 
della donna, @ ancora tema centrale dell’ultima fatica della poetessa. Che é 
presentata come un monologo di una donna “morta sotterrata allo stato 
colloquiativo”. Donna di dolori, pubblicato da Mondadori quest’anno, presenta 
una forma ancora piii semplice. E divisa in quindici composizioni di varia misura 
ma con 1’uso costante di endecasillabi a rima baciata, un metro presente nella 
tradizione lirica italiana con una certa costanza almeno fino al Pascoli (invocato 
come mentore, insieme al Rebora, dalla poetessa). Ancora una volta il richiamo 








Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? 269 


delle parole-pietre della tradizione si fa sentire ma sempre pit elusivo e meno 
convincente: 


Passa la nave mia con vele nere 


(20) 
oh luce dei miei occhi che trabocchi 
(20) 
Ahi serva Italia in mano ai socialisti, 
a quel gobbo ********* e menagramo 
(39) 
e nella penultima poesia (“Migrazioni di vermi . . . verso est . . .”) si pud 


riscontrare un ricordo molto flebile di una catena di sonetti del Lubrano dedicati 
ai vermi.!”7 Ancora predomina un’abile vena manieristica: 


O vita vitale per cui vivo, 
per cui vivendo muoio e vivo a morte, 
pestami ancora, pestami pit forte, 
sono quella che spasima d’amore! 
(34) 


Tuttavia stiamo assistendo nel percorso poetico della Valduga ad un lento e 
continuo sganciamento dalle prime prove in cui si applicava non solo una 
struttura metrica precisa e chiusa ma anche una tonalita facilmente riconoscibile 
come quella del petrarchismo cinquecentesco. Non é da dire comunque che 
qualcosa é venuto a mancare, anzi nelle ultime prove troviamo ancora una voce 
molto interessante e originale che, evitando certe petrosita dei Medicamenta, 
acquista sempre pili un posto sicuro nel parnaso italiano novecentesco. Ma di 
questo alla prossima occasione. 


4. Mi sono soffermato a lungo sulla poesia della Valduga perché essa 
rappresenta con le sue prove la punta pit visibile del ritorno alle forme metriche 
tradizionali. Abbiamo visto come cid sia avvenuto: non solo attraverso 1|’uso 
delle forme, ma anche con la riappropriazione della tradizione, come era accaduto 
gia con il petrarchismo che divenne fenomeno di massa. Abbiamo visto anche 
come questo neo-classicismo si distingue dai tanti ritorni alle forme canoniche 
del passato per il fatto che richiama non semplicemente l’apparato metrico, ma si 


17 Mi riferisco a “Moralita tratte dalla considerazione del verme setajuolo” che si trovano 
nell’edizione modema delle Scintille poetiche a cura di Pieri e che erano state proposte anche 
dalla rivista Poesia Uno edita nel 1980 dal Guanda a Milano e vicina agli ambienti in cui si @ 
formata la Valduga. 


270 Emilio Speciale 


spinge a riportare in vita anche un codice lessicale e retorico ben preciso. E non 
si tratta solamente di raccogliere le pietre del passato, esaminarle, buttarne la 
maggior parte e conservarne alla luce di faretti alcuni frammenti preziosi. Questa 
sarebbe tecnica da museo archeologico, mentre qui siamo alla presenza di una 
giustapposizione di due codici. Ci sono momenti citazionali evidenti, e tanti altri 
se ne sarebbero potuti mettere alla luce. Ma cid che si cita é l’intero codice 
classico, che si @ assimilato intimamente e a cui si riconosce la potenzialita di 
esprimere ancora una condizione contemporanea. E lo stesso stratagemma che 
insomma troviamo alla base del movimento architettonico denominato post- 
moderno e che confusamente é stato assunto come tratto culturale caratteristico 
dell'epoca che stiamo vivendo. 

Tuttavia applicare questa formula alle tendenze della poesia italiana attuale é 
molto fuorviante. Se nella Valduga abbiamo visto degli aspetti che potrebbero 
far pensare a questa tendenza almeno nella sua prima raccolta, difficile mi sembra 
trovare altri autori che possano essere assimilati sotto questa etichetta. Come ho 
detto in apertura la poesia attuale vive di pit’ voci difficilmente omologabili. Né 
si pud affermare che esista una giovane generazione che possa stare dietro 
all’esperienza della Valduga, esperienza ancora in fieri anche se solida e fra l’aitro 
tendente a diversificarsi essa stessa. Resta comunque il fatto che assistiamo 
sempre pit ad un’attenzione viva e partecipante verso le forme della tradizione. 
Che non é pid un tabi ritornare alle forme metriche classiche e al codice poetico 
del classicismo. Possiamo allora preconizzare quest’ultimo decennio del secolo 
come l’apparizione di un neo-classicismo che @ mancato durante i decenni 
passati? Ma anche su questo sarei molto scettico. 

Un dato di fatto concreto che mi sembra invece possa caratterizzare la 
tendenza della poesia contemporanea é la necessita di comunicazione, di ricerca di 
nuovi modi di apertura verso il pubblico. Questo si riscontra in tant fenomeni, 
ultimo non essendo il ritorno alle forme metriche e ai codici poetici canonici. E 
questo sia perché il contatto che il pubblico ha avuto con la poesia é stato 
attraverso i classici tra i banchi di scuola, sia anche perché oramai del codice 
romantico e moderno si @ appropriata |’industria delle canzonette, svuotandolo di 
significato. D’altronde |’attacco portato a questo codice dalle avanguardie é stato 
fenomeno elitario e le nuove generazioni di poeti sentono pili urgenza di fare 
avvicinare alla poesia nuovi lettori. 


The University of Chicago 


Post-moderno o neoclassicismo? Zit 


Opere citate 


Balestrini Nanni, Le ballate della signorina Richmond, Roma, Cooperativa scrittori, 

1977. 
, Ballate distese, Torino, Geiger, 1975. 

, Il ritorno della signorina Richmond, Oderzo (Treviso), Il bello giallo, 1987. 

, La signorina Richmond va in esilio , Milano, Corpo 10, 1987. 

, Ipocalisse. 49 sonetti. Provenza 1980-1983, Milano, Scheiwiller, 1986. 

Bertocchi Daniela e Edoardo Lugarini, Guida alla poesia, Roma, Editori Riuniti, 1986. 

Cavallo Franco e Mario Lunetta (a c. di), Poesia italiana della contraddizione, Roma, 
Newton Compton, 1989. 

Copioli Rosita, a c. di, Tradizioni della poesia italiana contemporanea, Roma, 
L’Altro Versante, 1988. 

Fortunato Mario, / giovani poeti. Forza rima, “L’espresso”, 21 giugno 1987. 

Hocke G. R., [1 manierismo della lettratura, Milano, Il Saggiatore, 1965. 

Kemeny Tomaso e Cesare Viviani (a c. di), /1 movimento della poesia italiana negli 
anni settanta, Bari, Dedalo, 1979. 

Marazzini Claudio, Revisione ed eversione metrica. Appunti sul sonetto nel 
Novecento, in “Metrica”. II, Milano, Ricciardi, 1981. 

Mengaldo Pier Vincenzo, La poesia del Novecento, Milano, Mondadori, 1978. 

Merola Nicola, /I poeta e la poesia, Napoli, Liguori, 1986. 

Pieri Marzio e Giacomo Lubrano, a c. di, Scintille poetiche, Ravenna, Longo, 1982. 

Pontiggia Giancarlo e Enzo Di Mauro (a c. di), La parola innamorata, Milano, 
Feltrinelli, 1978. 

Ponzini Pier Carlo, Trenta sonetti, Milano, Garzanti, 1991. 

Quondam Amedeo, La lirica e la tradizione, “Schifanoia” 1 [s.d.], 67-86. 

Ruffilli Paolo, Piccola colazione, Milano, Garzanti, 1987. Seconda ed., 1988. 

Santagostini Mario, Manuale del poeta, Milano, Mondadori, 1988. 

Valduga Patrizia, Medicamenta, Milano, Guanda, 1982. 

, La tentazione, intr. di Franco Cordelli, Milano, Crocetti, 1985. 

, Medicamenta ed altri medicamenta, con uno scritto di Luigi Baldacci, 

Torino, Einaudi, 1989. 

, Donna di dolori, Milano, Mondadori, 1991. 

Welle John P., The Poetry of Andrea Zanzotto. A Critical Study of 11 galateo in bosco, 
Roma, Bulzoni, 1987. 

Zamponi Ersilia e Roberto Piumini, Calicanto, Torino, Einaudi, 1988. 














Rebecca West 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text: 
The Genesis and Construction 
of Some Postmodern Prose Fictions 


The emphasis in much recent critical and theoretical writing about literature has 
been on the reader-text relationship.! The so-called “death of the author,” the 
discreditation of authorial intentionality as a valid critical focus, and the increased 
emphasis on the “creativity” of the critic, whose writing is presumably equally 
as much a part of the great undifferentiated sea of creative écriture as that of the 
writer-writer, are all factors in our current academic environment that have 
worked to attenuate, if not virtually to block out, the attention formerly paid to 
the author-text rapport. This is not to suggest that there are no literary critics 
and/or theoreticians who study literature with some concern for the author’s role 
in its genesis and construction. Rather, I am highlighting (perhaps 
hyperbolically) the trend today toward a dominant interest in the myriad uses and 
interpretations to which literary texts lend themselves, as contrasted to an 
investment in their origins and structures as experienced and understood by those 
who create them. The most obvious source of information about the latter is, of 
course, the author of any specific work who, in either written or oral form, can 
communicate to the reader who is interested in the creative process (in addition to 
the resultant text and/or its uses and interpretations) answers to questions such 
as: How did you come to write this book? What were your sources and models? 
Why did you choose the genre (or structure or point of view) that you did? How 
much say did you have in the physical appearance of the text, in its 
“presentification” as a book? In working on the fiction of contemporary writers, 
I have had occasion to ask authors themselves these and other questions, not in 
the mode of the formalized interview but in informal discussions that form part 
of my research into how and why current fiction comes to be.” From their 
answers and from the work of such critics and theorists as Umberto Eco, Cesare 


1 The bibliography on reader-response criticism is immense. Some standard studies include Eco’s Lector in 
fabula, Iser, Tompkins, and Fish. 

2 Eco has observed that “there are few cases in which an interview can become really creative. This happens only 
when the interviewer spends several days with the person being interviewed, and when his knowledge is 
thorough. . .” (Viegnes 57). My understanding of Celati’s and Malerba’s fiction has been enriched by such 
lengthy and unstructured contact, while I had the opportunity of speaking with Manganelli only a few fairly brief 
times, the first of which was a taped conversation of several hours when he talked mostly about his love of 
Baroque literature and answered some specific questions about his works. 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 273 


Segre, Maria Corti, Gérard Genette and, less directly, from the thoughts on 
creativity and composition of Poe, Calvino, Nabokov, Montale, and a host of 
other writer-critics, I have come to understand something of the genesis and 
construction of literary texts in a general sense. But it is the specific case to 
which this essay will be dedicated; more precisely, I shall discuss the work of 
three contemporary fiction writers — Gianni Celati, Luigi Malerba, and Giorgio 
Manganelli — with the goal of shedding some light on what I have called in my 
title the “before,” “beneath,” and “around” of their respective fictions. In more 
technical terms, I shall consider the avantesto, the genotesto, and the paratesto as 
described by these writers and/or as exemplified in their works. My emphasis 
will be primarily, although not exclusively, on the author-text connection, on 
those aspects of textual creation that authors can best clarify. However, I shall 
move to the reader-text end of the communicative chain “author-text-reader” when 
seeking to interpret the broader import and relevance of their commentaries 
(implicit or explicit as the case may be) and of their fictions themselves for the 
critical reader or theorist of postmodern narrative literature. A final prefatory 
caveat: I do not believe that “killing off” the author is a necessary or desirable 
Critical strategy, nor do I think that intentionality is a dead horse that can only be 
futilely beaten. I hope that what follows will make clear my reasons why. 


I. Avantesto: Before the Text 


When concerned with the genesis of a literary text, the critic finds of real interest 
the pretextual phase, which has been called by certain French and Italian critics 
the avant-texte or avantesto.? Genette suggests that the usefulness of the avant- 
texte resides in its function as “une visite, plus ou moins organisée, de la 
‘fabrique’” (Seuils 368). This is the phase during which the writer conceives an 
idea (or several ideas) as to what he or she may wish to create before having set 
pen to paper (or hands to computer). This is a particularly elusive phase for 
readers and authors alike; as Cesare Segre writes: “I meccanismi mentali che 
sovrintendono alle connessioni di concetti e immagini, poi di parole e ritmi, 
sino alla realizzazione linguistica, e metrica, ci sfuggono in gran parte, come 
probabilmente sfuggono agli scrittori stessi, che qualche volta si sono sforzati di 
darcene notizia” (79). Segre therefore turns to the more concrete evidence of 
“avantestualita” provided by variants, editorial revisions, and the like. Since, 


3 See Segre’s Avviamento all’analisi del testo letterario 79-85 and Corti’s “Elogio del lettore” for useful 
bibliographic information as well as for their own contributions to the definition of the avantesto. See also 
Genette’s Seuils 363-70 for an excellent discussion of the avant-texte, which he classifies as an “épitexte privé,” 
the “€pitexte” in general being “tout élément paratextuel qui ne se trouve pas matériellement annexé au texte dans 
le méme volume, mais qui circule en quelque sorte a l’air libre, dans un espace physique et social virtmellement 
illimité” (316). 


274 Rebecca West 


however, these other versions of a “definitive” text are, of course, themselves 
texts, and since there is no strict diachronic or progressive relationship among 
written versions, the study of variants and revisions cannot really re-create the 
pre-textual process of literary genesis and elaboration in any sort of concrete 
way. What the consideration of variants and editorial revisions can do, according 
to Segre, is to help us to understand (if only partially) “il dinamismo presente 
nell’attivita creativa” (79). The critic ends his discussion of the avantesto by 
asserting that the very concept itself cannot escape a “certa materialistica 
ingenuita,” for the maturation of a specific work takes place in the context of the 
entire production of any given writer, so that “si dovrebbe insomma chiamare 
avantesto tutta l’opera d’un autore sino al momento dato; ma con scarso 
vantaggio terminologico” (85). We might add that, seen in this way, the author’s 
entire life experience as well could be considered in some sense “avantextual”; 
again, however, we gain a “scarce terminological advantage” and end up only 
saying what has already been said so many times and perhaps never better than 
by Flaubert: “Madame Bovary, c’est moi.” 

Maria Corti’s comments on the avantesto are less materialistically oriented 
than Segre’s, yet she too seeks to endow this intangible phase of creativity with 
some identifiable contours. She writes: “Il rapporto autore-testo nasce all’interno 
di una fase che si pud definire avantestuale, quando chi scrivera é, per dirla con 
Valéry, in état d’attente, stato di attesa” (“Elogio del lettore” 5). Her emphasis is 
on the perceptual aspect of this generative period, when “il soggetto o autore, 
mentre guarda quello che tanti altri hanno guardato, lo vede in una prospettiva, in 
una luce e in una serie di rapporti nuovi. Come si sa, é la diversa combinazione 
che genera il nuovo, perché mette in luce diversa gli elementi che di conseguenza 
comporranno il nuovo” (5). The visual metaphor at work here is immediately 
felt to be appropriate; we have all thought about or spoken of our work as 
resulting from “seeing things in a new light” or “looking at a problem from a 
new angle.” Popularly, the classic cartoon rendering of a character with an idea is 
the balloon overhead containing a brightly lit light bulb, once again 
emphasizing the aptness of a phrase such as “luce nuova.” Corti’s mode of 
expression will be especially pertinent to the following discussion of the 
avantesto in Celati’s recent fiction, for his own descriptions of how that fiction 
came to be are heavily conditioned not only by metaphors of new perceptual 
perspectives but, more importantly, by the generative role played in his writing 
by photographic (i.e., material as well as theoretical) perspective, by the direct 
viewing of landscapes, and by the problems of narratorial point of view. 

More on this later, but for the moment I wish to return briefly to Corti’s 
comments. As we have seen, she first emphasizes the importance, during the 
phase of the avantesto, of “seeing differently”; this perceptual shift (or 
heightened receptivity or new slant or whatever we care to call it) permits what 
Corti calls “il possibile” to be born within the already existing. In fact, it has 


29, 66 


been called “inspiration,” “illumination,” or “miracle”: “non a caso gli antichi 





Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 275 


portavano in causa ora Apollo, ora le Muse” (5). She adds that today’s theorists 
call it “dinamismo orientato,” although I do not find that this term gives us any 
“terminological advantage” either. In any case, the writer, in order indeed to be a 
writer, now passes from the new “possible” that has been glimpsed or sensed to 
the phase of construction in words, a phase marked by the necessity of limits, 
choices, and coherence. The resultant text may be a very successful reflection of 
the rich “inspirational” thoughts and feelings that preceded its creation, or it may 
not be; no matter what, however, the actual phase of the avantesto is 
substantially over once the composition of the text begins. 

The difficulties inherent in theorizing about the avantesto may perhaps be 
overcome, at least in part, by concentrating on particular experience; by, that is, 
beginning with a specific case rather than from the global phenomenon of 
“avantestualita.” Gianni Celati is a writer whose fiction has always been 
accompanied by extraordinarily thoughtful meditations on what his prose 
narrative is (or seeks to be) and how it arises out of his experience, tradition, and 
language itself. After a successful début in the early seventies, Celati enjoyed 
some serious critical attention that, for the most part, characterized him as a 
highly original creator of post-neoavantgarde fiction.* The “‘sgrammaticalita” of 
Comiche and of Le avventure di Guizzardi aligned him with the anti-aulic, 
macaronic tradition reaching back to Folengo and extending to Gadda, while his 
categorical rejection of the “romanzo ben fatto,” his interest in linguistic 
materialism and corporeal humor (both tied to cinema), and his preference for 
“marginal” (as contrasted to historically “monumental”) subjects and settings 
(tramps, insane people, adolescents, deracinated youths) showed his “sixties,” 
counter-cultural leanings. Yet Celati did not continue to write out of these 
cultural and literary contexts; in fact, he fell silent after the publication in 1978 
of the novel Lunario del paradiso, and did not publish any further fiction until 
1985 when the collection of short stories Narratori delle pianure appeared. This 
Celati redivivus was so radically different from the writer of the seventies that 
critics naturally asked him to discuss the origins of his new art. Interviews, 
speculative reviews of Narratori, and other sources of information regarding the 
avantextual phase of Celati’s short stories proliferated, and a fascinating — and 
quite specific — portrait of the “stato d’attesa” preceding the actual elaboration of 
the written fictions emerges. The marked difference, stylistically, structurally, 
and thematically, between the recent short stories and the earlier fiction makes 
asking the question where this new writing came from all the more apposite, and 
Celati’s period of silent suspension further supports the appropriateness of 
investigating the mysterious “stato d’attesa” that prepared the different “vision” 


4 Calvino was one of Celati’s first champions, introducing Comiche and stimulating critical interest in his work. 
Although not directly involved in the Gruppo ’63 or other neoavantgarde groups, Celati published several 
important theoretical articles in /I verri and was taken up by the writers and “critici militanti” of the period. See 
my “Gianni Celati and Literary Minimalism” for a bibliography of writings by and on him. 


276 Rebecca West 


of the possible characterizing his recent work. 

While Celati’s own direct comments are the best source of information 
about his avantextual experience, I would like to begin with a brief consideration 
of the relevance of some other factors, not overtly referred to by the author, that 
perhaps played a role during the inspirational phase that preceded his most recent 
writings. I do so not because I wish to usurp the author’s place but because 
Celati’s reticences are often as eloquent as his pronouncements (the latter more 
often than not offered under the duress of an interview or a public talk, both of 
which are antithetical to Celati’s “weak” mode of being and doing. I use “weak” 
in the sense of “pensiero debole,” of which more further on). First, there is the 
fact that Celati has worked for years on a translation of Herman Melville’s short 
story “Bartleby the Scrivener,” meditating on its philosophical and metaliterary 
resonances. The character Bartleby’s identifying utterance — “I would prefer not 
to” (translated by Celati as “‘avrei preferenza di no”) — signals throughout the 
tale his mystifying refusal to act, to the point ultimately of death. Celati’s 
translation, with an introduction, selected letters by Melville, and a commented 
bibliography of studies of the story, appeared in 1991 with Feltrinelli. It is clear 
that Bartleby’s silent and passive existence fascinates Celati (as it has myriads of 
writers and critics), and that there is even a sort of identification with “lo 
scrivano che rinuncia a scrivere e resta immobile a guardare un muro, 
imperturbabile e laconico, sordo a ogni ragionevole persuasione, 
inespugnabilmente mite” (“Introduzione” vii). 

The writer drawn to silence is not a figure exclusively of our age, of course; 
but perhaps it is true that such a figure is particularly emblematic of the late 
twentieth century’s millennial doubts regarding the efficacy of the word, and can 
be seen as yet another sign of the so-called “crisis of reason and faith” by which 
the postmodern world is characterized.” That Bartleby’s story is, for Celati, very 
much a story for our times is made clear in many assertions in his “Introduction” 
to it. Perspectives on the story provided by postmetaphysical thought (most 
obviously articulated in Italy by the proponents of “pensiero debole”) and by 
postrealist modes of writing (such as minimalism, metafiction, and revisionist 
history) are brought into play in Celati’s reading : “Nessuna tragedia vera e 
propria, nessun fatto avventuroso, solo il fruscio del divenire entro gli stretti 
limiti del suo luogo d’apparazione. Del resto tutto in questo racconto parla di 
limiti, di spazi esigui, di atti minimi, di piccolezze. Tutto sembra nel segno d’un 
abbandono delle aspirazioni di grandezza, nel segno di un lutto per tutte le 
titaniche e deliranti ansie di espansione” (vii). This description could just as well 
stand as an apologia pro arte sua of Celati’s own recent production, from the 
stories of Narratori delle pianure to those of Quattro novelle sulle apparenze to 


5 One of Celati’s favorite writers is Beckett, whose literature of silence is emblematic of this trend. See Steiner’s 
Language and Silence for some still pertinent considerations regarding the politics of silence. See Cannon for a 
good analysis of postmodem Italian writers whose work reflects the crisis of reason. 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 277 


his writings directly related to the photography of Luigi Ghirri (Celati’s 
commentaries to Ghirri’s photographs in II profilo delle nuvole: Immagini di un 
paesaggio italiano and his diaristic “racconti d’osservazione” in Verso la foce).° 
Similarly, Celati’s professed admiration of Giorgio Agamben’s recent study La 
comunita che viene is in harmony with his admiration for the “abandonment of 
aspirations to greatness” that he finds in “Bartleby.” Agamben’s book, itself an 
exiguous seventy-seven page meditation on the individual and the community of 
the future, proposes, as does much of the collective work of the “debolisti,” a 
modest vision.’ In the chapter entitled “Bartleby,” Agamben furthers his 
argument concerning the Kantian concept of the qualunque (which subtends the 
philosopher’s entire vision of the subject to come) with recourse to the character 
Bartleby, whose preference for silence, non-action, and finally death is seen by 
Agamben as an expression of the Aristotelian “potenza di non essere” that, 
unlike mere impotence, is what characterizes the “essere qualunque. . . che pud 
non essere, pud la propria impotenza” (25). Bartleby thus serves, for both 
Agamben and Celati, as an exemplary postmodern figure as well as an example 
of a certain “weak” mode of being and acting (by not being and acting in the 
much more common terms of assertion, aggression, or domination) appropriate 
to the postmodern, anti-projectual culture they perceive and support. If many 
postmodern writers express primarily epistemological problems in their work 
(we need only think of Eco and Malerba), Celati’s recent interests put him 
squarely among those for whom ontological issues dominate. Bartleby is a figure 
who is ideally suited to meditations regarding the subject, being, silence, and 
death: all topics dear to the philosophical and literary “ontologists” of 
postmodern culture. 

All of this may appear to be far afield of my professed topic — the avantext 
— but I am convinced that Celati’s “stato d’attesa” was in great part filled with 
preoccupations as to how his future writing might reflect the silence of Bartleby 
and the related “fruscio del divenire,” “lutto,” and “‘abbandono delle aspirazioni di 
grandezza.” Celati found another source of inspiration in the work of 
photographer Luigi Ghirri, whose influence on the writer is explicitly discussed 
in a number of pieces published both before and after the appearance of Narratori 
delle pianure (Orengo; Marcoaldi; Turnaturi). Pondering “being” inevitably led 
to pondering the external world in which being resides, and Ghirri’s work held 
for Celati many revelations regarding the importance of photography as a means 
of bringing being to light, revelations which he later sought to incorporate into 


© See Mitchell for a very thoughtful and rich meditation on the photographic essay; see as well Hutcheon, 
especially the chapter entitled “Text/image border tensions” (118-40) for useful words on the relation in 
postmodem culture between the visual and the verbal, particularly between the photographic and the textual. 

q Agamben is a philosopher and essayist who studied with Heidegger, works on Benjamin, among others, and 
serves as an advisor to Differentia, the American journal created and edited by Peter Carravetta, and the best 
disseminator of postmodem, postmetaphysical Italian thought in this country. See Vattimo and Rovatti, and Dal 
Lago and Rovatti for essays on “il pensiero debole.” 


278 Rebecca West 


his writing. In an essay written for the 1984 conference in Palermo called “Tl 
senso della letteratura,” Celati discusses Ghirri’s photography. Stating that recent 
Italian literature does not afford him any examples of “finzioni a cui credere” (the 
title also of his essay) because everyone instead seems to be dedicated to 
“‘smascherare brillantemente ogni possibile finzione, viaggiando per convegni a 
dettare interpretazioni complessive sul mondo” (all references are from Alfabeta 
64, settembre 1984, p. 10), Celati turns to Ghirri as an artist who has escaped 
“la boria culturale da cui siamo asfissiati.” Ghirri lives in Formiggine, in the 
province of Modena, in a neighborhood that Celati describes as resembling 
“modellini di suburbs americani per classi medie, con case unifamiliari provviste 
d’un giardino.” The difference is that Ghirri’s neighborhood is entirely covered in 
asphalt, so that there is a sense of enormous and empty space. Rather than trying 
to make sense of the “strana fissita che assume lo spazio vuoto,” and rather than 
seeking to transform it into something usable or meaningful, Ghirri’s 
photographs “recount” this strange fixity of empty space. For Celati, this 
achievement is important because it is what the writer calls “una radicale pulizia 
negli intenti o scopi dello sguardo”; Ghirri’s work does not seek either to 
approve or to condemn what is seen, but rather “scopre che tutto pud avere 
interesse perché fa parte dell’esistente.” (In an informal taped interview in 1985, 
Celati spoke to me of Ghirri’s “modo di descrivere, cioé un modo che non é né 
documentaristico né estetico.”) Celati calls Ghirri’s vision “un racconto, 
tutt’ altro che tetro e livido, dei posti che affiorano sulla superficie della terra e 
nei quali ci sentiamo dispersi.” 

What connection might this photographic mode have with the written word? 
Celati sees as most important to any story “la soglia d’intensita che viene scelta 
per narrare le cose.” If the artist (photographer or writer) is interested in making 
us see the otherness of the external as exceptional, then the threshold of intensity 
must be high either thematically or stylistically. If, however, it is the simply 
“existent” that is of interest, then the threshold is lowered (as in Ghirri’s 
photographs) and we come to see that the external world is not different from our 
interiority, but that we, like everything and everyone, are “gia da sempre e per 
sempre nella rappresentazione”; that, in short, “otherness” resides in us. From 
this Celati concludes that appearances are all we have, and that “ fictions to 
believe in” can do no more than “ricucire le apparenze disperse negli spazi vuoti, 
attraverso un racconto che organizzi l’esperienza, e percid dia sollievo, come 
quello di Ghirri. Non esiste nessun racconto che valga la pena d’esser fatto, se 
non da sollievo (anche la tragedia da sollievo, i brillanti smascheramenti d’ogni 
finzione no).” The lowering of intensity and the avoidance of exceptionality; the 
emptiness of space (like the silences of language); the modest goal of art to give 
comfort and to orient us as we live out our lives among scattered appearances; all 
of these factors relate to the modes of thought represented by Celati’s 
involvement with Bartleby, with Ghirri, and with “debolezza,” and all, I believe, 
strongly conditioned the stories that came to be written after the years of silence. 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 279 


To conclude these comments on Celati’s avantext or “waiting stage,” I 
would like to have us listen to the photographer whose work had such a primary 
role in inspiring the writer. Ghirri’s comments on Narratori delle pianure 
appeared in Panorama in June 1985; entitled “Una carezza al mondo,” the brief 
piece opens by quoting the last words of the last story of the collection: 
“* Avevano |’idea che, continuando a remare, sarebbero arrivati da qualche parte.’ . 
. . Credo di poter dire che in questa frase é il senso della sua [di Celati] ultima 
fatica, che ho visto nascere da vicino” (italics mine). In other words, Ghirri 
witnessed the period of “avantestualita” and can tell us invaluable things about 
it. What he does in fact say is succinctly put; of the seven-year hiatus between 
Lunario and Narratori Ghirri writes: “per lui questo é stato un tempo pieno di 
voci da ascoltare e mondi da guardare. Se negli anni passati lo scrittore (con 
Comiche, Le avventure di Guizzardi, La banda dei sospiri ) aveva privilegiato 
mondi personali e interiori, in questi racconti sono le voci ascoltate e gli spazi 
esplorati a essere i protagonisti. Qui, tutto quello che ci é esterno — suoni, 
voci, luci, spazi — diventa il centro della narrazione.”® Ghirri makes his own 
connection between photographic and narrative art when he states: “In questo 
aspetto magico-misterioso dell’esistente sta il fascino di questo libro; e qui si 
rivela l’amore di Celati per la fotografia, che ¢ immagine della realta, e finzione, 
realta trovata e costruzione della realta.” Ghirri concludes by recalling a comment 
by Celati on Walker Evans: “le sue fotografie sono come carezze fatte al 
mondo,” to which the photographer adds: “Penso che i racconti di Gianni siano 
la stessa cosa.” Here, Ghirri is of course speaking of the finished product, not of 
the process preceding its creation. We understand less of that product, however, if 
we know nothing of the complex “stato d’attesa” that came before. I am not 
suggesting that our critical evaluation of the fictions resulting from Celati’s 
many explorations into thought and space depends on our understanding 
something of those explorations. I am arguing, however, that our understanding 
of the origins and goals of his writing (like that of any writer) enriches our 
possible responses to that writing, and reminds us that art is made by human 
beings, our respect of whose dedicated efforts should be as much a factor in our 
work as critics as our respect for the concrete results of those efforts. To talk of 
texts as if they were authorless, unrelated to the same fumbling, tentative, 
mysterious, and provisional processes of life and thought to which all of our 
being and doing are tied is both to elevate and degrade art into a bloodless, static 
realm, no matter how ingenious and complex the interpretive strategies 
employed. According to Genette, genetic criticism, in focussing both on the 
avantext and on the so-called “final version” of any text “confronte ce qu’il est a 


8 In a very brief insert, entitled “Da Buster Keaton a Peter Handke,” included with Turnaturi’s review of 
Narratori delle pianure, Calvino concurs with Ghirzi, writing: “Dopo vari anni di silenzio, Celati ritora ora con 
un libro che ha al centro la rappresentazione del mondo visibile. . . .” He attributes this in part to “quel 
rovesciamento dall’intemo sull’esterno che mi sembra il movimento pid caratterizzante degli anni Ottanta” (95). 


280 Rebecca West 


ce qu’il fut, 4 ce qu’il aurait pu étre, a ce qu’ il a failli devenir, contribuant ainsi a 
relativiser, selon le voeu de Valéry, la notion d’achévement, a brouiller la trop 
fameuse ‘cléture,’ et 4 désacraliser la notion méme de Texte” (Seuils 369-70).? 
Considering the avantextual period is, I believe, one modest way to bring 
attention back to the dynamism and process of artistic being and doing, to the 
“work in progress” that is not only the literary artifact but also, and more 
importantly, collective human striving. 


II. Genotesto: Beneath the Text 


In the section of Avviamento all’ analisi del testo letterario dedicated to “i 
contenuti testuali,” Segre briefly touches upon the concept of the “genotesto”; he 
refers to Kristeva’s discussion of the “fenotesto” and the “genotesto,” which 
Segre describes respectively as “‘il testo in senso proprio, superficie significante” 
and “‘la struttura significata, profonda; il secondo ‘genera’ il primo, in senso 
chomskiano” (99 note 16). In the Appendix, entitled “Toward a Critique of the 
Sign,” of the Encyclopedic Dictionary of the Sciences of Language, Ducrot and 
Todorov provide a slightly more detailed summary of the concepts. In their 
presentation they write of “the displacement of the primary opposition between 
language of communication and signifiance onto a second opposition, in the text 
itself, insofar as the text is a writing on a dual basis that opens the ‘inside’ of 
the sign to the ‘outside’ of significance.” The surface “phenotext” can be 
understood as the site both of a dissimulation of literary language’s signifying 
activity and as a manifestation of that signifying activity’s transgressive nature 
vis-a-vis Communicative language, while the underlying “genotext” can be seen 
as the site of signifiance itself, of the generation of the phenotext. Ducrot and 
Todorov insist that the relations of these two terms “are not those of 
Chomsky’s deep and surface structures [italics mine], since it would be useless 
to seek in the genotext a structure that would reflect in an archetypal form the 
structures of the communicative sentence.” The phenotext is rather a “generative 
process,” a “remainder” of all of the possibilities of language that the genotext 
encompasses; furthermore, the phenotext is not “an end but a cut-off point or a 
limit,” and the genotext “exceeds it on all sides” (all quotations from 360). For 
my purposes here, I should like to concentrate attention on the concepts of 
“surface” and “deep” (which condition discussions of the phenotext and genotext 
even if the Chomskian analogy is refused), and on the metaphorical idea of the 
“remainder.” I am not seeking a technically exact linguistic definition of the 
genotext; rather I am interested in its potential relation to the dream and, 


9 Genette (Seuils 364) mentions Jean Bellemin-No#l’s Le texte et l'avant texte (Larousse 1972) and the December 
1977 issue of “Littérature” entitled “Genése du texte” as particularly useful sources of information regarding the 
methodologies of genetic criticism. 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 281 


secondly, in the dream’s potential relation to literary narrative. My “test case” is 
the writing of Luigi Malerba, in which the dream plays a vital role not only 
thematically but “generatively.” My goal, as in the case of the avantext, is to 
explore the genotext in the specific context of one writer’s production rather than 
in a broadly theoretical manner, although I would hope that some of the issues 
raised might have some applicability to narrative in a wider sense. 

John Gardner has written that “whatever the genre may be, fiction does its 
work by creating a dream in the reader’s mind” (31). His interest is in the 
techniques by means of which the writer creates a vivid and continuous dream, 
one that fully captures the reader’s emotions and judgments. His use of the word 
“dream” could be substituted with the word “film,” for he writes of the 
importance of physical detail and the sensory engagement of various kinds 
(especially visual) provided by effective fiction. Similarly, a recent piece on Poe 
describes his imagination as “visual and three-dimensional,” and concludes: “If 
Poe had lived today he would probably have been a film maker” (Johnson 10). 
These diverse considerations remind us that when we respond to and are held by 
certain fictions, as well as by certain dreams and films, it is in great part because 
we are drawn into worlds that hold us at a gut level; we are stimulated not only 
mentally but viscerally, corporeally. Something gets underneath our skin, “gets” 
us deep down, below the surface of the fully explainable, the clearly definable. 
Paraphrases of dreams and films (and fiction also) are notoriously flat compared 
with the experience of their deep effects on and meanings for us. The spatial 
metaphors of “deep” versus “superficial” and the concept of mere “trace” or 
“remainder” as contrasted to the thing itself are very much part of our ways of 
thinking about and expressing ideas regarding dreams, films, and fiction. Luigi 
Malerba, screenwriter, fiction writer, and published dream diarist, brings together 
these concerns in his work, in which not only is the dreamlike filmic effect of 
fiction on the reader explored, but also the generative role of these realms on the 
writer himself is brought to the fore. 

Malerba’s writing is notoriously involved with the notions of materiality, 
corporeality, and the bodily origins of writing. Conversely, his fiction also 
explores the fascination of the abstract and of the purely mental. The writer 
himself has avowed that “ogni mio libro nasce da un grave disagio,” a physical 
discomfort produced by allergies or by disturbing dreams.!° Dreams permeate his 
fiction, for they are precisely the realm where the vividly corporeal and the 
exquisitely abstract meet. It could even be said that dreams are the essential 
ingredient in Malerba’s fiction. In his excellent study, appropriately entitled 
Malerba: la materialita dell’ immaginazione, Francesco Muzzioli argues that 
Malerba’s art can be defined in terms of the synergistic, reciprocal interference of 
the imaginary and the real: “da un lato l’immaginario non é mai liberato in 
assoluta onnipotenza inventiva ma @ tenuto ancorato da valutazioni basse- 


10 Malerba makes this assertion in Mauri 1. 


282 Rebecca West 


quotidiane di tenore corporale. . . mentre, dall’altro lato, la realté non disperde 
l’immaginario come pura insussistenza” (14). Later, Muzzioli refers to the dream 
as the perfect site of such “interference,” given that it is “una ‘figurazione’ 
quotidiana che parte da elementi reali per svolgerli e manipolarli secondo le 
diverse gradazioni del ‘possibile’” (86); he further points out that dreams are 
within Malerba’s fiction from the earliest stories of La scoperta dell’ alfabeto to 
the novels // serpente, Il pataffio, and Il pianeta azzurro. JoAnn Cannon has also 
considered the role of dreams in Malerba’s earlier fiction, writing that “the 
suggestion that the dream embedded at the center of the novel has perhaps 
‘generated’ the story of The Serpent is crucial to the reading of this text (72). 

It is, however, in Diario di un sognatore that Malerba makes explicit his 
fascination with the dream, and it is in the prologue to this diary of dreams that 
Malerba introduces the notion of the dream as genotext. Malerba is not interested 
in systems (mythic, Freudian, or other) that interpret dreams.'’ Instead he often 
uses the dream as, to take Muzzioli’s term, a “serbatoio” (91) from which stories 
can be elaborated. The dream is thus a genotext in that it contains the possible 
elements from which the story or phenotext can be constructed. Malerba 
describes this process thus: “in qualche caso il sogno si articola da se stesso in 
una narrazione elementare o ‘genotesto’, che si pud inscrivere nell’ambito 
generico della fiaba e talora ci fa risalire a tempi ancora pil remoti, nella 
penombra del mito e delle fantasie primitive” (“Prologo” 13). The words “tempi 
pili remoti,” “penombra del mito,” and “fantasie primitive” resonate with the 
sense of “deep” ascribable to the genotext in linguistic terms; both the dream and 
the “elementary narrative” of the genotext must await the ordering and 
structuring of waking invention in order to “come to the surface,” yet both are 
not effaced by the phenotext, the latter of which remains merely a “trace” or 
“remainder” of the wealth below, much as a diamond is a trace of the materials of 
its composition deep under the earth. Malerba’s definition of the dream as a real 
experience produced by fantasy, as a vast repository of imagined “possible 
worlds,” and as a phenomenon tied to myth makes of it a “buried treasure” akin 
to the depths of potential structure and meaning of the genotext that can only 
come to light by means of the phenotext. Rather than saying that Malerba’s 
genotext is the dream, we might say that the genotext and the dream can both be 
used as critical metaphors for the linguistic, structural, and imaginative 
repositories beneath his “surface” literary narratives. That the abstract metaphors 
that govern so much of our thinking about literature are spatial (beneath-above; 
inside-outside; layers of structure and meaning, and so on) is perhaps an 
inevitable result of our dominantly visual (and therefore sensory) orientation, 
which is at work in the creation and the reception of dreams, films, and fiction 
alike. Malerba’s art stimulates us to ponder the deep abstractions and 
potentialities “beneath” fiction and life, while it provides us with textual 


11 See my “The Poetics of Plenitude.” Koelb has written an acute reading of the book in the light of Nietzsche. 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 283 


surfaces of alluringly concrete appeal to mind and senses both. As in the case of 
Celati’s recent work, the relevance of literature to lived experience is clear, yet 
both literary constructs and “reality” are problematized in complex ways that do 
not permit of any facile reassurances regarding the meaning of either. The 
abstract potentiality of language and structure represented by the genotext is 
inextricably tied to the concrete “remainder” represented by the phenotext, and 
neither is definable without the other. Similarly, the astounding fertility of our 
dreams is born from our experience in the “real” world, and as the real generates 
fantasy, so fantasy, imagination, and “vision” beyond the seen inform the real. 
The constant crossover between fantastic realms of deep mystery and the surface 
of real experience, between the unexpressed and the expressed, and between the 
inexhaustible potential of language and realized texts is characteristic of 
Malerba’s fiction in which the genotextual level, like dreams beneath our waking 
consciousness, does its hidden work. 


III. Paratext: Around the Text 


Gérard Genette’s work on the paratextual aspects of literary texts is 
fundamental. In a number of studies, he has elaborated a detailed and highly 
useful critical and theoretical framework for considering those elements of the 
literary text that, all the while being part of the overall structure and eventual 
meanings of it, are nonetheless “around” rather than “in” the main text itself. In 
Palimpsestes: la littérature au second degré, he defines the paratext as “titre, 
sous-titre, intertitres; préfaces, postfaces, avertissements, avant-propos, etc.; 
notes marginales, infrapaginales, terminales; épigraphes; illustrations; priére 
d’insérer, bande, jaquette, et bien d’autres types de signaux accessoires, 
autographes ou allographes, qui procurent au texte un entourage (variable) et 
parfois un commentaire” (9). In an article in the journal Substance, Genette 
further comments that the paratext is “less a well-defined category than a flexible 
space, without exterior boundaries or precise and consistent interiors. . . . [it] 
consists . . . of all those things which we are never certain belong to the text of 
a work but which contribute to present — or to ‘presentify’ — the text by 
making it into a book” (63). This “flexible space” is Giorgio Manganelli’s 
natural habitat; his works reveal his constant flight from the main body of a 
fixable text to the appendages and accessories that decorate, camouflage, and 
“presentify” it. Manganelli has written many prefaces to books penned by others, 
for example; he has written a book that consists entirely of commentary on a 
missing main text (Vuovo commento); he has created the genre of the “parallel 
text” in Pinocchio: un libro parallelo, a book that is both a commentary on and 
a rewriting of the original. He is famous for his jacket blurbs. Manganelli has, 


284 Rebecca West 


in short, dedicated himself to the paratext. In this consideration of the 
Manganellian paratext, I shall concentrate on his inimitable jacket blurbs and 
comment very briefly on the cover illustrations of his books, many of which he 
himself chose. It is common practice to remove and discard book jackets, a 
practice tantamount to book mutilation in Manganelli’s case (and perhaps in all 
cases), given that the blurbs and jacket illustrations are integral parts of the 
books’ signification. Happily, Manganelli republished a number of his blurbs in 
the 1989 Antologia privata, although original jacket illustrations for early works 
are still hard to come by.!? There is nonetheless enough of this paratextual 
material available to be able to draw some conclusions regarding its functions 
and meanings. 

That the blurbs and the jackets are integral parts of Manganelli’s fiction, as 
well as characteristic “signatures” on his books, is undeniable; no author (at least 
in Italy) is as famous for his jacket self-presentations as Giorgio Manganelli. 
Giuseppe Zuccarino writes that Manganelli has cultivated “in modo 
estremamente originale e sistematico questa abitudine del risvolto, fino a farne 
una sorta di genere autonomo e tutto personale” (“II risvolto di Manganelli” 8). 
Manganelli’s blurbs systematically undermine the usual functions 
(informational, critical, promotional) that such jacket commentaries serve, often 
by parodistically mimicking those very functions. In them, the three basic 
elements of literary communication — author, text, and reader — are all 
subjected to Manganelli’s particular brand of play; the “contract” of 
communicability implicit in the literary act is null and void as the writer’s 
diabolical wit sabotages any and all notions of message, sincerity, or fixable 
meaning. Ostensibly descriptive, the blurbs instead serve to emphasize the 
purely rhetorical nature of writing and literature’s absolute lack of connection 
with anything that might be called “reality,” just as the books they gloss refuse 
narrative logic, linear plots, and reliable narrators. We expect blurbs to be 
“straight,” that is, we typically perceive a difference between the literariness of 
fictions and the communicative directness of the descriptions attached to them. 
Manganelli willfully ignores this expected difference, writing instead exquisitely 
literary blurbs that parodistically imitate more standard commentaries. 

A few examples will have to suffice here. The blurb for Centuria,a 
collection of one hundred very short stories, claims that the volume contains 
“minute descrizioni di case della Georgia dove sorelle destinate a diventare rivali 
hanno trascorso una adolescenza prima ignara poi torbida; ambagi sessuali, 


12 1 was lucky enough to find a copy of the first edition of Manganelli’s first fictional work, the 1964 
Hilarotragoedia, jacket intact, in a Palo Alto bookstore. A photograph of the author, looking something like a 
slightly shady private eye out of a film noir, very untypically provides the jacket’s decoration, while the 
hardback book beneath, gray in color, is bedecked only with the author’s signature written in large black script. 
The jacket blurb, if written by the author, is an also untypically anodyne description far from the extravagantly 
self-parodic version included in the second edition. (See Petroski for an informative and amusing meditation on 
dust jackets.) 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 285 


passionali e carnali, minutamente dialogate; memorabili conversioni di anime 
travagliate; virili addii, femminesca costanza” and so on. The book contains 
nothing of the sort; in fact these are the sorts of themes most detested by 
Manganelli, based as they are on “life,” “psychology,” and “human passions.” 
Other books are characterized as containing “il buon, vecchio, invernale 
racconto” (Tutti gli errori) or “mere trascrizioni 0 traduzioni da lingue variamente 
estranee” (Agli déi ulteriori); Hilarotragoedia is described as “un trattatello.. . 
che ben si sarebbe schierato a fianco di un Dizionarietto del vinattiere di 
Borgogna, e di un Manuale del floricultore,” while Centuria is called “una vasta 
ed amena biblioteca; un prodigio della scienza contemporanea alleata alla retorica, 
recente ritrovamento delle locali Universita.” Manganelli either deprecates or 
hyperbolizes his fictions, but never is there any attempt to describe their actual 
form or content. It could appear that Manganelli is parodying and thus criticizing 
the naturalist or realist tradition in favor of an avantgardistic conception of 
literature, but this is not the case. Unlike other writers who can be called 
“neoavantgarde” or “experimental” (that is, writers who sought and seek to find 
new socio-political and/or aesthetic forms, functions, and meanings for literature 
within the context of the society in which it is written), Manganelli has 
consistently refused a conception of literature that ties it to “reality.” In fact, he 
has stated more than once that he categorically refuses the very idea of a 
describable reality, insisting instead (most famously in his 1967 “manifesto” 
appropriately entitled “La letteratura come menzogna”) that literature is nothing 
more or less than the endless play of language entirely ruled by the “god” of 
rhetoric. The absolute “literariness” of literature makes of the text the site of 
purely linguistic and rhetorical elaboration, disconnected equally from the goals 
and beliefs subtending both realist and avantgarde writing. The blurbs can no 
more “describe” (describe what?) than the fictions themselves; both are, like all 
literature, “organizzazione. Di niente. Organizzazione di se stesso.” ! 

What, then, of the author? Manganelli stated in a 1980 interview that 
“writers are simply instruments of verbality” (Magazine littéraire ). In response 
to a fan letter I wrote to him in 1985, he replied (in English): “You tell me very 
kind words about ‘my books,’ but I don’t think there is such a thing, an author. 
Books do happen, quite as dreams do. Impossible to tell in advance what a dream 
will be, or if we will have any dreams; and of course the dreams we dream are 
not ‘ours.’” In the blurbs, the author is never called the author, therefore; rather 
he is “il raccoglitore” (Agli déi ulteriori); “un fool”; ““vago, vacuo, vagellante 
anche vile amanuense” (Discorso dell’ ombra e della stemma); “umile pedagogo” 
(Hilarotragoedia ). Commenting on Sconclusione, Manganelli writes that it was 


13 Quoted in Corti, II viaggio testuale 151; Corti’s reading of Manganelli is one of the most detailed available to 
date. See my review of several books by Manganelli in “Annali d’Italianistica” 4 (1986) where I discuss in some 
detail his conception of literature. See also Lucente (312-22) for a particularly lucid account of Manganelli’s 
poetics. 


286 Rebecca West 


composed “in condizione di umida nebulosita cimmeria, spente le ultime braci 
del rogo dell’io.” When writing blurbs to his collections of critical essays, 
however, Manganelli does enjoy taking on the guise of the “absent-minded” 
professorial type; the “humble scholar” who wrote the essays contained in 
Angosce di stile tells us that “non avendo noi studiato il sanscrito negli anni 
della nostra puerizia, non scriveremo un memorabile saggio sui Veda.” He has, 
however, provided us with “un testo sulla Bottega dell’antiquario di Charles 
Dickens che, é@ del tutto ovvio, sta al posto di una memorabile ricerca sulla 
Kabbala e sul Golem, pit! una grammatica comparata delle lingue semitiche che 
circostanze atmosferiche mi hanno impedito di portare a termine.” The author, 
fictionalist or essayist, is generally characterized, then, as a “buffone,” a hapless 
bumbler, a pretentious fool, or a slave to language’s hegemony. 

As might be expected, the reader fares no better. Manganelli’s “ideal reader” 
is imagined as someone looking for something quite other than a “good read” or 
“edification.” The readers of Hilarotragoedia are “capziosi delibatori,” and “rari ma 
costanti cultori della levitazione discenditiva.” Those of Sconclusione are 
“mentalmente perplessi . . . sollecitati da incubi cui danno effimero sollievo con 
badiali ululati notturni”; they are, furthermore, “sommessi fobici, cerimoniosi 
delicati, nevrotici altamente depressi, coloro che vantano cecita e afasia isterica,” 
and they do not need “maggior dottrina di quanta si possa ragionevolmente 
pretendere da un catatonico di provincia.” Manganelli imagines some poor 
misguided reader in the blurb to Dall’ inferno who “golosamente acquistasse il 
presente volumetto adescato dall’ammicco turistico del titolo, sperando di 
trovarvi non inutili indicazioni per un verosimile soggiorno a conclusione di una 
vita operosa”; he sees “la famigliola” who buy the book “fiduciosamente.” These 
readers “sprecherebbero il virtuoso denaro.” The blurb to Centuria suggests that a 
chain of readers line up on the various floors of a skyscraper of the same number 
as lines in the book in hand; at a signal the top reader will read one line as he 
jumps, and the others will follow suit as they read line by line through the entire 
book. The reader, thus insulted, ridiculed, and even killed off, is scarcely invited 
into the texts. Reading the blurbs, we either accept the “joke” and enter into 
complicity with Manganelli, or we turn away, knowing full well that the books 
inside will provide us with little escape or comfort. 

Manganelli’s blurbs sometimes refer directly to the titles and cover 
illustrations. Indeed, he even writes of an as yet nonexistent cover in the blurb to 
A e B. His comments there are worth quoting at some length because they reveal 
his acute awareness of the importance of paratextual material in “presentifying” 
literary texts: 


Nel momento in cui scrivo queste righe, questa etichetta da incollare ad un recipiente, 
un container di anonimi, pseudonimi e defunti, io ignoro quale sara la copertina del 
container; @ una situazione imbarazzante, giacché fino a che non esistera una sia pure 
putativa copertina, io non potrd essere certo che questo oggetto impreciso, informe, 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 287 


deforme . . . insomma, ignoro se “questo” riuscira mai a conseguire i caratteri 
contrattualmente impegnativi di un libro. I] fatto che tuttora non abbia copertina mi 
conforta nella sensazione che esso non uscira da una condizione gelatinosa, che non 
procedera oltre la consistenza della muffa letteraria. 


The cover of Sconclusione is understood only after having read the cover blurb, 
for it consists of the letters H, M, O, C, and D, with H being the largest and 
first in the design. Manganelli tells us that they are letters “composte con fregi 
disegnati da W. Casion tra il 1742 e il 1763,” and that he prefers H above all 
letters because it is “ectoplastico, inafferabile effato, fonico nulla.” Other cover 
illustrations work hand in hand with the blurbs in a similar manner, both 
serving to emphasize the book as object as well as to reiterate Manganelli’s 
refusal of “message-oriented” content or books’ relevance to context. His use of 
these (and other) paratextual elements as modes of signification is unsurpassed in 
contemporary Italian literature. Manganelli’s fidelity to his particular view of 
“literature as lie” is constant throughout his prolific production over an almost 
thirty-year period, which continued uninterrupted until his death in May 1990 
(and beyond, for his last novel, La palude definitiva, has just been posthumously 
published by Adelphi). 


IV. Criticotext: After the Text 


The “before,” “beneath,” and “around” of texts are critical concepts that can help 
us to understand the origins and construction of these and other contemporary 
fictions. There are other temporal and spatial metaphors that guide our work as 
critics and theorists of literature: the “now” of texts (studies oriented to the 
synchronic); the “then” (studies concerned with the diachronic); the “where” 
(culturally and socio-anthropologically conditioned criticism). No matter what 
sort of approach we employ, however, it remains true that the critic’s work 
comes after the writer’s labors, and is thus additive rather than creative in the full 
sense of the term. Books are what we make of them, but they are also what their 
authors made. My point is decidedly not that we return to a critical mode based 
on authorial intentionality or on biographically directed interpretations that 
privilege the maker over the made. I am seeking, instead, some alternative to 
literary critical and theoretical methodologies that distance texts so radically from 
the processes of their making so as to nullify the author’s role. Wayne Booth 
has written some words that come close to expressing my perspective: “All 
criticism depends on basic metaphors, often unstated, for our relation to 

? As soon as I conclude the sentence with ‘to the words on the page,’ 
‘to stories,’ ‘to characters dramatized,’ ‘to the text,’ ‘to the author,’ or to any 
other term, I have already implied my choice of a metaphorical mode. . . . many 
critics today talk of solving puzzles, deciphering codes, wandering through 


288 Rebecca West 


mazes, untangling webs, or dismantling ramshackle structures. Others imply 
slightly warmer relations: ‘texts’ become worlds to be entered or prized objects 
to be analyzed or admired. . . . In pursuing now the metaphor of people meeting 
as they share stories, we have no need to spend time attacking any of its rivals” 
(170). Booth goes on to discuss the now virtually lost tradition of considering as 
friends beloved books and their authors. Certainly, “friendship” is as much a 
critical metaphor as any other term chosen to describe the critic’s relation to the 
texts studied. But it is, to my mind, a far superior metaphor than “enmity,” 
“hierarchy,” or “dominance.” What benefit do we derive from “mastering” a text’s 
“hidden strategies,” as if it were a battle plan, rather than a work of art, that we 
were reading? Why is it considered necessary in so many of today’s 
methodologies to disdain anything authors might have to say about their 
creations, as if the creator were as a matter of course the worst possible reader of 
the work in question?!* 

As we seek to make sense of postmodernism in its many guises, and as we 
read the complex and highly diverse prose fictions of contemporary writers such 
as Celati, Malerba, and Manganelli, thinking about their relation to their texts 
as well as our own relation to and use of them seems to me a legitimately useful 
(and appropriately “friendly”) critical mode that can contribute to a lessening of 
the divide between authors who write down their “dreams,” their “possible 
worlds,” and critics who enter into those dreams and seek the meanings of those 
worlds in the contexts in which they circulate and gain an afterlife. In the cases 
of Celati and Malerba, we learn in studying their works’ avantextual and 
genotextual aspects about the importance of extraliterary sources of inspiration 
(photography, dreams, film) to the elaboration of their fictions, a characteristic 
common to much contemporary literature. We also come to see that even the 
most unnaturalistic, most “self-conscious” writing is still reflective of 
existential and epistemological problematics that are far from irrelevant to lived 
life. In the case of Manganelli’s paratext, we are led to ponder the writer’s role in 
“presentifying” his words as books, and to consider once more the meaning of 
the radically anti-referential aesthetic that underlies not only Manganelli’s art but 
also that of many of today’s artists in such diverse realms as literature, painting, 


14 Writing of the ambivalences of many verses in Dante’s Commedia, Wlassics posits that the poet willfully left 
them so: “The author, at the very least, must be admitted into his own readership. Did Dante read the Divine 
Comedy? He certainly did, both in the ‘directional," left-to-right sense . .. and by the non-sequential ‘seesaw 
scanning’. . . theorized by Paul de Man. . . . The ambivalences we are dealing with should be conceived of, at 
least for argument’s sake, as having the sanction of that privileged reader, the author” (309). Wlassics adds that 
“Stanley Fish, by pushing his concept of ‘reading’ to its extreme, strips the author of his ‘authorship,’ as it were” 
(310). I agree, and would extend all authors’ “privileged status” as “first readers” of their texts to include their 
role as privileged commentators on the genesis and constructions of those texts. Their knowledge should not be 
banned from the Empire of Criticism, any more than our readings of their texts should on principle be scomed 
by living writers. 


Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 289 


and film.!° 

Entering the dreams of others is both a privilege and a responsibility. In 
conclusion, I want to quote one of Malerba’s written dreams that, I believe, 
provides yet another useful metaphor: “Una grande sfera di cristallo, pid di un 
metro di diametro, é al centro del soggiorno nella casa di Settecamini. Vorrei 
trovare il modo di entrare nella sfera, la faccio girare lentamente nella stanza per 
vedere se c’é un pertugio, o una falla, che mi consenta di entrarvi. Capisco che la 
cosa non é possibile, ma continuo a cercare con accanimento. Non si sa mai” 
(Diario di un sognatore 136). Not to shatter the crystal sphere of fantasy as we 
search for a way into its center: this is a delicate and crucial operation for writers 
and critics alike. 


The University of Chicago 


Works Consulted 


Agamben, Giorgio. La comunita che viene. Torino: Einaudi, 1990. 

Booth, Wayne C. The Company We Keep. An Ethics of Fiction . Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1988. 

Calvino, Italo. Lezioni americane. Sei proposte per il prossimo millennio. Milano: 
Garzanti, 1988. 

. “Da Buster Keaton a Peter Handke.” L’Espresso 30 giugno 1985: 95. 

Cannon, JoAnn. Postmodern Italian Fiction. The Crisis of Reason in Calvino, Eco, 
Sciascia, Malerba . London: Associated University Presses, 1989. 

Celati, Gianni. “Parlato come spettacolo.” J] verri 26 (1968): 80-88. 

. Comiche. Torino: Einaudi, 1971. 

. “Tl racconto di superficie.” Jl verri 1 (1973): 93-114. 

. Le avventure di Guizzardi. Torino: Einaudi, 1973. 

. La banda dei sospiri. Torino: Einaudi, 1976. 

. Lunario del paradiso. Torino: Einaudi, 1978. 

. “Finzioni a cui credere.” Alfabeta 67 (dicembre 1984): 13. 

. Narratori delle pianure. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1975. (Voices From the Plains. 

Trans. Robert Lumley. London: Serpent’s Tail, 1989.) 

. Quattro novelle sulle apparenze. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1987. 

.Verso la foce . Milano: Feltrinelli, 1989. 

, trans. and ed. Bartleby lo scrivano (Herman Melville). Milano: Feltrinelli, 
19911. 

Corti, Maria. II viaggio testuale. Le ideologie e le strutture semiotiche. Torino: 

















15 See Lucente, especially the “Introduction” and “Conclusion” of his study, for some very insightful comments 
on postmodem “self-consciousness.” 


290 Rebecca West 


Einaudi, 1978. 

, ed. Viaggio nel Novecento: come leggere i testi della letteratura 
contemporanea. Milano : Mondadori, 1984. 

. “Luigi Malerba: una scomessa con il reale.” Autografo 13 (1988): 3-21. 

. “Autointervista.” Annali d'Italianistica (“Women’s Voices in Italian 
Literature.” Ed. Rebecca West and Dino S. Cervigni) 7 (1989): 423-29. 

. “Elogio del lettore.” La rivista dei libri 1.2 (maggio 1991): 4-6. 

Dal Lago, Alessandro and Pier Aldo Rovatti. Elogio del pudore. Per un pensiero 
debole. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1989. 

Differentia. Review of Italian Thought. Ed. Peter Carravetta. 1 (1986); 2 (1988); 3-4 
(1989). 

Ducrot, Oswald and Tzvetan Todorov. Trans. Catherine Porter. Encyclopedic 
Dictionary of the Sciences of Language. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 
1979. 

Eco, Umberto. Lector in fabula. Milano: Bompiani, 1979. 

. “Postille a JI nome della rosa. Il nome della rosa. Milano: Bompiani, 1986 
(18th reprint). 505-33. 

Fish. Stanley. Is There a Text in This Class? Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1980. 

Galliano, Gianfranco. Letteratura e cultura in Giorgio Manganelli. Firenze: Firenze 
Libri, 1986. 

Gardner, John. The Art of Fiction. Notes on Craft for Young Writers. New York: 
Vintage Books, 1991. 

Genette, Gérard. Palimpsestes. La littérature au second degré. Paris: Editions du Seuil, 
1982. 

. Seuils. Paris: Editions de Seuil , 1987. 
. “The Proustian Paratexte.” Trans. Amy G. McIntosh. Substance (“Reading In 
And Around”) 17.2 (1988): 63-77. 

Ghirri, Luigi. “Una carezza al mondo.” Panorama 30 giugno 1985: 24-25. 

. Il profilo delle nuvole. Immagini di un paesaggio italiano. Testi di Gianni 
Celati. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1989. 

Hutcheon, Linda. The Politics of Postmodernism. London: Routledge, 1989. 

Iser, Wolfgang. The Implied Reader. Patterns of Communication in Prose from 
Bunyan to Beckett. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1974. 

Johnson, Diane. “Dreams of E. A. Poe.” The New York Review of Books 38.13 (July 
18, 1991): 7-8; 10. 

Koelb, Clayton. “Nietzsche, Malerba, and the Aesthetics of Superficiality.” Boundary 
2 12 (Fall 1983): 117-32. 

Lucente, Gregory L. Beautiful Fables. Self-consciousness in Italian Narrative from 
Manzoni to Calvino. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1986. 

Malerba, Luigi. La scoperta dell’ alfabeto. Milano: Bompiani, 1963 (sec. ed., 1971). 

. Il serpente. Milano: Bompiani, 1966 (sec. ed., Milano: Mondadori, 1989). 

. Il pataffio. Milano: Bompiani, 1978 (sec. ed., Torino: Einaudi, 1985). 

. Diario di un sognatore. Torino: Einaudi, 1981. 

. Il pianeta azzurro. Milano: Garzanti, 1986. 

. “Lo scrittore come fantasma.” Autografo 12 (1987): 4-9. 

Manganelli, Giorgio. Hilarotragoedia. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1964 (sec. ed.,1972). 

. La letteratura come menzogna. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1967 (sec. ed., Milano: 











Before, Beneath, and Around the Text 291 


Adelphi, 1985). 

. Nuovo commento. Torino, Einaudi, 1969. 

Agli déi ulteriori. Torino: Einaudi, 1972. 

A eB. Milano: Rizzoli, 1975. 

Sconclusione. Milano: Rizzoli, 1976. 

Pinocchio: un libro parallelo. Torino: Einaudi, 1977. 

Centuria. Cento piccoli romanzi fiume. Milano: Rizzoli, 1979. 

“Interview.” Magazine Littéraire 165 (October 1980): 20-21. 

Angosce di stile. Milano: Rizzoli, 1981. 

Discorso dell'ombra e dello stemma. Milano: Rizzoli, 1982. 

Dall’ inferno. Milano: Rizzoli, 1985. 

Personal Correspondence with Rebecca West, dated April 21, 1985. 

Tutti gli errori. Milano: Rizzoli, 1986. 

. Antologia privata. Milano: Rizzoli, 1989. 

Marcoaldi, Franco. “Padania-Texas.” Reporter: Monitor Libri 14 giugno 1985. 

Mari, Giovanni, ed. Moderno postmoderno. Soggetto, tempo, sapere nella societa 
attuale. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1987. 

Mauri, Paolo. Luigi Malerba. Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 1977. 

McGrady, Donald. “An Interview with Eco, Together With Considerations Upon The 
Validity of Some Modern Authors’ Observations on Their Work.” Jtalian Culture 
8 (1990): 147-61. 

Mitchell, W. J. T. “The Ethics of Form in the Photographic Essay.” Afterimage 
(January 1989): 8-13. 

Montale, Eugenio. Sulla poesia. Ed. Giorgio Zampa. Milano: Mondadori, 1976. 

Muzzioli, Francesco. Malerba. La materialita dell’immaginazione. Roma: Bagatto 
Libri, 1988. 

Nabokov, Vladimir. “On a Book Entitled Lolita.” The Portable Nabokov. Selected 
with the author’s collaboration and with a critical introduction by Page Stegner. 
New York: The Viking Press, 1968. 

Orengo, Nico. “Celati: racconto la gente che ho ascoltato.” Tuttolibri 15 giugno 
1985: 5. 

Petroski, Henry. “Dress for Success: The Dust Jacket As Art, Advertisement and 
Nuisance.” The New York Times Book Review May 18, 1986: 21. 

Poe, Edgar Allan. “The Philosophy of Composition.” The Complete Poems and 
Stories of Edgar Allen Poe with Selections From His Critical Writings. Ed. 
Arthur Hobson Quinn and Edward H. O’Neill. 2 vols. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 
1982. 2: 978-87. 

Segre, Cesare. Avviamento all‘analisi del testo letterario. Torino: Einaudi, 1985. 

Stallman, Robert W. “Intentions, problem of.” Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and 
Poetics. Ed. Alex Preminger. Frank J. Warnke and O. B. Hardison, Jr. Associate 
eds. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1974: 398-400. 

Steiner, George. Language and Silence. Essays on Language, Literature and The 
Inhuman. New York: Atheneum, 1976. 

Tompkins, Jane P., ed. Reader-Response Criticism. From Formalism to Post- 
Structuralism. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1980. 

Tumaturi, Gabriella. “Il collezionista.” L’ Espresso 30 giugno 1985: 93; 95. 

Vattimo, Gianni and Pier Aldo Rovatti, eds. Jl pensiero debole. Milano: Feltrinelli, 








292 Rebecca West 


1983. 
Viegnes, Michel. “Interview with Umberto Eco.” L’Anello che non tiene 2.2 (1990): 
S7=19 
West, Rebecca. “The Poetics of Plenitude: Malerba’s Diario di un sognatore.” Italica 
62.3 (1985): 201-13. 
. Review of La letteratura come menzogna, Dall’ inferno, Laboriose inezie, 
Tutti gli errori, by Giorgio Manganelli. Annali d’Italianistica 4 (1986): 307-11. 
. “Lo spazio nei Narratori delle pianure.” Nuova corrente 97 (1986): 65-74. 
. “Gianni Celati and Literary Minimalism.” L’Anello che non tiene 1.2 
(spring 1989): 11-29. 
. “Working on Living Writers.” Romance Languages Annual 1 (1989): 216- 
21. 
Wlassics, Tibor. “Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy.” Annali d'Italianistica 
(“Dante and Modern American Criticism.” Ed. Dino S. Cervigni) 8 (1990): 300- 
13: 
Zuccarino, Giuseppe. “II risvolto di Manganelli.” Alfabeta 57 (febbraio 1984): 8. 





s 
, at oe (~ 


\ 
Pee Ss, uy 















werent toe ah cep staf AIM 97.1 led) elle oats 
we 4 nen Mtl tones Cowher ak tesilltanhsh 
eto YONIpEETEL © xm fama ¢: eteduacens 5! ete, Ge ‘oni 
Petiaty, pidenep & Gere ole possibite. Dies peat um eg 
(Ridoiryatoent niet de cteemitats inte Sep onsen hw! sila onawees-y 
oeigan't Bnepir mail} me datas dale hot ickdd inrog ye owelbar Ile agiseia iz. 
it oloatta iy eaeeaye-ni Stosylutei crite mele 
aie te | nbpedincsiginteits @; asa TaN YOUR ATTA 
 bigme ain cit: § :Qrobignics eemshnis coasedam © Dimsheaustiegt? 
itearote sperbrntemey A tel syb-hie ad demgeep Sr - whites diy ate 
— seatihouirauifiios 1 aticon.Gulahuen Abaya sty sootnenannay ab ania « 
oar Rab sogeweb ellen p Geo ners awiswesy tipas og twig -epdinpets ibtenia 
Oupeigh Maswwai-n/ lapis hi maedslehyoitle Lroginayortadetts ai perbpergs: 
herbs! exe ‘tet iemrianatdere cod aire raiocuaont: | ay omati dean tc 
¢ nobiles: aerate zip rived ibd ini ert ipcep in: srtoennifen atsgeri 
rege di eneug ueenbeliedo 22squ’t eneih 1 ones kioense alisaives 
iteeeenian og amen i) hj Tet soutiieeahotec cet esyoriageey ham ls 
ifgnier seen Or terval (aboot ins Me o rw 2! @thaheita if ebtytrety il 
obnaemy ise2gir nT heeeta me ny A‘oreei erent ceteide Yoo et ember 
piiSindaietlittidete i ee “ie dwergs bad! at ce vette ed RE’ 
andrei (ienemhroy st tel ceengphenacieb ‘netle ba qvel 1p 2haris Ge “aby ome 3 


















oovndinnemstia oS yietwomisiee mh ehorullie cin ny Siew 1 Salas * 
S- iudsnuaa iu) saci pitreends olovias fuc:i dc bnety perked geen ee 
otuyossa pa) é: oo @r sndt inetbiwieuw ¢n tes Calne etercd i . 
Pe Em ae Se | Anqyittperernl iit, Cibtgair!h oes) te Mitel a. ae 
Obiiac fierieviy olmeuieg «ty scenery ened alls haw in} orm ofr. cmap 5 
al.noo shite, ina A) ite seca gaat cman tig Be Aah pomyD sti +! : 
| pot tatieregs 1 evry ef 2 yactee Mig ee PSisiiiiey Sah as OTH pin - 
peub Annales ey Vn ty SR s-<i Y°*: 2° ii Taney eaves « - 
Jaatinetens pia eco aorta? tema dp exec HEHE Oe Ase)? 


Tau sh ners in ity ectheritaphek at matey nats nore Suastantageti 
(ib eis Bian Oyirols Carmina ye deksie eile haw an SVU T Sy aT Pd 
erent tate ty pgt aiviveepetate ry m oe Keune BR wicks 9 
pheraidin vy (aeth ob ivr te rake ai > ree Sia ‘en as J tdi =) 
Ges Fegoes. nied A a Jjaiaer © 


~ 
ll 
reer mare + ibs Gi ‘ L & ‘ives fa) iF entsh ako <yP ul pete 


Francesco Casetti 


Archeologia del postmoderno italiano: 
81/2 di Federico Fellini 


1. Il sogno di un film 


Pud sembrare curioso che in un numero speciale dedicato al postmoderno in 
Italia si risalga all’indietro, ai primi anni ’60, e si esamini un film come 8//2 che 
a prima vista non tradisce indulgenze in questa direzione. Ma non é solo il 
barocchismo gid emergente in Fellini a giustificare questa scelta (e si sa quanto 
postmoderno e neo-barocco tendano a coincidere): é qualcosa di pil ampio e 
insieme di pit sottile. La mia ipotesi infatti é che 8//2, raccontando la storia di 
un film in preparazione che non vedra mai la luce, metta in conflitto due diverse 
idee di cinema (e pili in generale di creazione artistica), quella inseguita da Guido, 
il regista in crisi, che ci riporta all’opera romantica, e quella invocata dal suo 
pubblico e dalla sua piccola corte, che ci avvicina ai modi dell’ opera industriale; 
e che dallo scontro tra questi due “film ideali”, che in qualche modo si elidono a 
vicenda, ne nasca un terzo, che prefigura l’opera postmoderna. 

Questa |’ipotesi: e per dimostrarla partiamo dall’idea di cinema portata avanti 
da Guido. Esaminiamo la maniera in cui egli procede, le diverse fasi su cui egli 
imposta la sua attivita. Innanzitutto c’é un’attenzione diffusa verso il mondo 
circostante, per raccoglierne tutte le indicazioni utili; una disponibilita latente 
verso quanto accade, per impadronirsi dei suoi possibili suggerimenti; in una 
parola, una ricerca continua delle fonti di ispirazione. Poi c’é un ricorrente lavoro 
di immaginazione, che si manifesta talvolta come ricostruzione del passato sul 
filo della memoria, talaltra come liberazione della fantasia, spesso come 
mescolanza delle due cose. II decollo dell’immaginazione avviene sia per analogia 
a quanto Guido osserva (si pensi alla donna grassa che passando genera il ricordo 
della Saraghina), sia per contrasto (l’apparizione di Claudia alle fonti stride con la 
presenza della cameriera che porge sgraziatamente il bicchiere), sia per l’affiorare 
di una domanda interiore (1’“Eppure . . .” di Guido che da avvio alla visione 
dell’harem), sia per fili ancora pili segreti: l’effetto in ogni caso consiste nel 
delineare una realta che per intanto ha la consistenza di un disegno mentale. 
Infine c’é l’intervento diretto sul film, e cioé l’inserimento dentro una storia di 
quanto si é immaginato, la definizione dei personaggi e delle situazioni da 
riprendere, 1l’allestimento di un set, l’impressionamento di una pellicola. 
Insomma, dopo l’ispirazione e dopo la formazione di un’immagine mentale, 
abbiamo la realizzazione di un’ opera. 





Archeologia del postmoderno italiano: 8112 di Fellini 295 


Ora quest’ ultima fase manca: Guido non la affronta mai per davvero; anzi, la 
tiene continuamente sospesa. Tuttavia cid non significa che non riusciamo a 
farci un’idea del film in cantiere: dal modo in cui é ripetutamente annunciato, e 
soprattutto dal modo in cui Guido lo prepara tra sé e sé, possiamo ben intuirme i 
contorni. Da un lato questo film dovrebbe avere come oggetto il mondo stesso 
del regista: i ricordi e la fantasie che lo nutrono partono infatti sempre da 
qualcosa che tocca Guido da vicino, sia perché gli é capitato, sia perché gli sta 
capitando, sia perché forse gli capitera. Abbiamo detto delle associazioni donna 
grassa-Saraghina, donna della fonte-Claudia, situazione familiare-harem: cid che 
viene recuperato e man mano esplorato appartiene tutto all’esperienza del regista, 
sia essa passata, presente o anche solo possibile. Del resto uno degli spettatori 
dei provini (l’unico materiale filmico che Guido gira . . .) osserva: “E la sua 
vita”. In questo senso siamo sul piano dell’introspezione. 

Dall’altro lato perd l’universo del regista trovera sullo schermo nuove 
misure: i diversi momenti che lo costituiscono saranno infatti sottoposti ad un 
lavoro di contaminazione, di compressione, di deformazione. Lo intuiamo gia da 
alcune ipotesi alle quali si fa qua e 14 cenno: l’astronave, facile metafora del 
microcosmo chiuso e autosufficiente in cui Guido vive, é una struttura metallica 
fortemente astratta; il marinaio che balla il tip tap, e a cui Guido promette una 
parte, € una macchietta ai limiti del ridicolo. Dunque gli oggetti e 1 personaggi 
destinati ad essere ripresi non avranno una faccia consueta, comune. Ma lo 
intuiamo soprattutto dai ricordi e dalle fantasie cui Guido si abbandona, da quei 
“sagei di immaginazione” che sono chiamati a far da filtro alla realta e a fornire 
materia al nuovo film. Essi esibiscono dei parametri propri: abbiamo la 
coesistenza di mondi diversi, come nella sequenza del cimitero; abbiamo il 
comprimersi degli spazi e dei tempi, come nella sequenza dell’harem; abbiamo 
l’ingrandirsi degli oggetti e il rimpicciolirsi delle persone, come nella sequenza 
del collegio; e cosi via. Dunque nelle fantasie e nei ricordi nulla rimane eguale a 
se stesso; tutto si ricombina, si altera, si trasforma. In questo senso il film da 
farsi si avvicinera alla visione del sogno, in cui dominano le condensazioni e gli 
spostamenti; l’introspezione sara bilanciata da una profonda ristrutturazione dei 
dati, di natura fondamentalmente onirica. Insomma, |’esplorazione di sé si aprira 
alla réverie. 

Ecco, introspezione e réverie. Diciamo aliora che l’opera a cui Guido mira si 
puo ben configurare come una trascrizione soggettiva del proprio mondo, o come 
la traduzione in un’ottica individuale del proprio universo. Insomma, una sorta di 
diario privato basato su di una forte espressivita: un discorso costruito sulla 
doppia regola del “parla di te” e “parlane in modo personale”. Gia questi due tratti 
ci consentono di riconoscere il profilo tipico dell’opera romantica: ma 
quest’identificazione si rafforza se ricordiamo sia l’ossessivité con cui Guido 
sembra perseguire il suo progetto, sia soprattutto la sua incapacita di dare ad esso 
uno sbocco effettivo. Egli, vitalisticamente, si mette ad ogni passo in gioco; e 
nello stesso tempo quello cui di fatto arriva é il non finito, il non manifestato. 


296 Francesco Casetti 


Dunque “journal de 1|’4me” intessuto di fantasie e di ricordi, visione 
deformata del proprio mondo individuale, prova sostenuta da slanci vitalistici e 
nondimeno votata allo scacco: il “film ideale” a cui Guido mira sembra 
riproporre con puntualita il modello romantico. Del resto che il nostro regista 
incarni il “tipo dell’artista”, il “genio creatore” che nel romanticismo ha appunto 
la sua ascendenza, non c’é dubbio: in questo sono d’accordo anche coloro che 
magari senza volerlo ne ostacolano a fondo 1’ azione. 


2. Le funzioni della regia 


E passiamo appunto al fronte opposto a quello di Guido. Che cosa infatti 
impedisce la realizzazione del suo progetto? Due realta, fondamentalmente: 
l’irresolutezza del regista, la sua cronica indecisione; e i richiami che gli 
provengono da chi lo circonda, le attese o le richieste che lo perseguitano. 
Quanto all’irresolutezza di Guido, essa conferma la sua natura di “artista”. Dove 
stanno infatti gli intoppi? Guido non sa collegare gli spunti che pure trova (si 
pensi alla difficolta di inserire nella storia sia l’astronave che Claudia, i cui ruoli 
continuano a cambiare); non sa scegliere il materiale che man mano acquisisce 
(si pensi all’imbarazzo nel decidere a quale degli attori assegnare la parte tra quelli 
sottoposti a provino); non sa trasformare in un’indicazione precisa cid che gli 
passa per la testa (si pensi alla resistenza a definire la strada che vuol prendere, il 
tipo di film cui vuole arrivare). Tutti questi casi dimostrano che a Guido non 
mancano né le idee, né le possibilita di esprimerle; semmai ce ne sono in 
eccesso, e quel che latita é invece la capacita di utilizzarle in modo pratico, di 
farle rendere per quello che valgono (é in questo senso, credo, che va interpretata 
la domanda che lo stesso Guido si pone in un momento di particolare 
smarrimento: “E una crisi di inspiration?”). Dunque se il disegno non si 
concretizza, non é per una deficenza di creazione; é solo perché questa creazione 
non si vuol misurare con la concretezza del momento espositivo, in cui rischia di 
impoverirsi e di banalizzarsi. Del resto, fa parte della natura romantica votarsi 
allo spreco e alla sconfitta. 

Ma se il film non si fa, é anche per un’altra ragione: per la presenza di una 
serie di richiami esterni che intralciano la ricerca di Guido e che gli impediscono 
di farla maturare. Richiami provenienti da diverse fonti, e con contenuti 
differenti. In primo luogo c’é il pubblico dei film di Guido, rappresentato ad 
esempio dal dottore che all’inizio lo visita, e pit in generale dai numerosi 
giornalisti che lo assediano, tutte persone che chiedono al regista di spiegare il 
suo lavoro e insieme di rinnovare i suoi precedenti risultati. Poi, su di un altro 
terreno, quello familiare, c’@ Luisa, la moglie di Guido, che gli chiede affetto e 
fedelta. C’é Rossella, l’amica della moglie, che gli chiede di ritrovare la chiarezza 
di un tempo. E c’é Carla, l’amante di Guido, che chiede un riconoscimento per sé 
€ una ricompensa da riversare sul marito. Ritornando all’ambiente 


Archeologia del postmoderno italiano: 81/2 di Fellini 297 


cinematografico, c’é la troupe, in cui spiccano Conocchia e l’ispettore di 
produzione, sempre li a chiedere l’assegnazione di compiti precisi. Ci sono gli 
agenti delle attrici, che chiedono quante pose sono previste. C’é Carini, 
l’intellettuale chiamato a leggere la sceneggiatura, che chiede lucidita e 
precisione. E infine c’é il produttore, che semplicemente chiede a Guido di girare 
il suo film: di girarlo come vuole, ma subito; di girarlo comunque. 

Questi richiami, per quanto diversi, hanno un denominatore comune: 
impegnano Guido a uscire allo scoperto, a pronunciarsi, a rassicurare: insomma, 
a fornire una prova chiara e univoca riguardo a sé e al suo lavoro. Un tale invito 
porta indubbiamente il regista verso il passo che gli manca, e cioé a produrre dei 
segni visibili, a render pubbliche le sue intenzioni, a concretizzare le sue idee. 
Ma un tale invito scombina anche un poco I’azione di Guido, visto che lo 
chiama a rispondere a delle domande pit che a scavare nel proprio io, 0 a 
garantire una disponibilita pit che a insistere nella propria ricerca, o a dimostrare 
una capacita d’intervento pil che a inseguire Il’impossibile. Insomma, la richiesta 
di una prova spinge Guido a completare il suo cammino, a “scrivere” il suo 
diario; ma lo spinge anche a modellare il suo agire in qualche modo 
diversamente, pensando ad esso come ad una vera e propria prestazione. 

Lo spostamento non é di poco conto. Prendiamo il film come termine di 
paragone (ne siamo autorizzati, oltre che dal fatto che @ l’idea di cinema quella 
che stiamo cercando di sondare, anche dal fatto che il mondo professionale 
riassume un po’ tutto l’universo del regista, compreso il suo universo familiare: 
come ben dimostra la sequenza del cimitero, nella quale il padre di Guido chiede 
proprio al produttore se il figlio si comporti bene). Ebbene, tra la maniera di 
procedere scelta da Guido e quella richiestagli ci sono almeno tre ordini di 
differenze. In primo luogo ad un’attivita che mette in gioco soprattutto le sue 
premesse (la ricerca dell’ispirazione) si contrappone un’attivita mirata a dei 
risultati precisi (la realizzazione dell’ opera). Il fare di Guido deve tradursi in una 
performanza. Poi ad un’attivita personale, ai limiti del solipsismo, si 
contrappone un’azione che vede implicati gli altri, promossi ad interlocutori. Il 
fare di Guido deve tener conto di una dimensione sociale. Infine ad un’attivita 
sganciata da obblighi precisi o da riscontri vincolanti si contrappone un'attivita 
in funzione delle attese che la circondano. Il fare di Guido deve assumere una 
certa conformita. 

La conclusione @ che Guido si trova proiettato su di un terreno totalmente 
diverso dal suo. La richiesta di un prova rovescia il suo modo d’agire: lo 
impegna in qualcosa di effettivo, di riconoscibile anche dagli altri, e di conforme 
alle aspettative; lo impegna in qualcosa che ha tutta l’aria di coincidere con 
l’allestimento di uno spettacolo. Di qui il delinearsi di un conflitto aperto, di 
un’alternativa secca. Che pud essere riassunta appunto nella contrapposizione tra 
un diario segreto retto da un principio di espressivita e uno spettacolo basato su 
di un principio di prestazione. I due progetti non potrebbero essere pid distanti: 
si differenziano sia a livello di obbiettivi che di premesse. Cosi come si 


298 Francesco Casetti 


differenziano a livello di riferimenti: se infatti il primo (lo abbiamo visto) 
richiama il modello dell’opera romantica, come non riconoscere nel secondo il 
modello dell’opera industriale? C’é la stessa finalizzazione del lavoro creativo: 
l’artista o arriva ad un risultato “spendibile”, o altrimenti non é nulla. C’é lo 
stesso senso di esteriorita: l’artista non é pit il solo padrone della propria opera, 
essa appartiene prima ancora ai suoi fruitori. E c’é lo stesso scendere sul terreno 
del mercato: |’artista o entra appieno in un gioco di attese e di soddisfazioni, o il 
suo agire, reso marginale, é del tutto inutile. Guido, inseguendo un progetto, si 
trova prigioniero di un altro: “maestro” celebrato, forse proprio perché “troppo” 
celebrato, si trova impaniato in un nuovo ruolo. Egli é chiamato ad essere non 
pid il “creatore puro”, ma qualcuno che sappia anche essere efficiente, 
rispondente e utile: un “autore” che si possa esibire come “garanzia di qualita”. 
Se egli vuole rivestire la funzione del regista, non ha alternative: e sul secondo 
versante che deve mettersi, non certo sul primo. 


3. E tuttavia ... 


Ma Guido non si muove: stretto tra due misure in conflitto, le elude entrambe. 
Né il film segretamente perseguito, né quello pubblicamente richiestogli, vedono 
mai la luce. Tanto cid che lui vorrebbe essere, l’immagine che egli ha di sé, 
quanto cid che gli altri vorrebbero lui fosse, la sua immagine sociale, si rivelano 
due ruoli senza sbocco. 

Guido si ferma: e resta con dei materiali dal contenuto incerto (che cosa 
significa l’astronave? che ruolo ha Claudia?), privi d’ordine (si tratta solo di 
frammenti giustapposti senza legami e senza progressioni), e non chiariti nella 
loro natura (che tipo di film vorrebbe veramente fare il regista? di che genere? per 
chi?). Il suo discorso non tiene né sul piano semantico, né su quello sintattico, 
né infine su quello pragmatico. Lo si vede dai provini: semplici variazioni sul 
tema, il cui senso sfugge; accumulo di materiale che non si sa come organizzare; 
riprese forse inutili rispetto al progetto previsto. E proprio nella sala dei provini 
Guido si dimostra drammaticamente incapace d’un qualunque gesto di regia: 
segno evidente dell’impasse in cui si trova. Eppure, nel momento della massima 
crisi, quando Guido rinuncia al suo progetto e insieme rompe il contratto che lo 
lega al produttore, ecco la svolta. Il film si pud fare, basta girarlo: esso conterra 
tanto le situazioni che il regista € venuto immaginando quanto le occasioni che 
ne hanno accompagnato |’elaborazione, tanto i personaggi che lo circondano 
quanto i dubbi e le difficolta di cui questi sono i portatori. Il film si pud fare, 
anzi é gia fatto: né “diario segreto”, né prodotto industriale (entrambi senza titolo 
.. .), esso ha probabilmente un nome, 8/72. 

Quest’opera finalmente possibile, e insieme da apprezzare 
retrospettivamente, obbedisce ovviamente a nuove misure. Innanzitutto sul piano 
semantico: il suo tema é la ricerca di un tema; il suo senso é l’incertezza di un 


Archeologia del postmoderno italiano: 81/2 di Fellini 299 


senso. II nuovo film accetta l’indecidibilita dei significati e delle assiologie. Poi 
sul piano sintattico: il suo ordine @ la frammentazione e l’accumulo. Il nuovo 
film accetta il disordine come principio di costruzione. Infine sul piano 
pragmatico: il suo genere é l’assenza di genere. II nuovo film accetta l’idea che ci 
siano degli esemplari inclassificabili. Ora per fondare queste nuove misure sono 
necessari alcuni passi. Il primo e pit radicale consiste nell’abbandonare |’idea che 
un’opera nasca da un gesto lineare e ben definito, quale pud essere un voler dire 
basato sull’introspezione e la réverie, o un saper rispondere da esibire come prova 
tangibile. Le manovre sottese sono in realta assai pil complesse. Diciamo di 
pid: va abbandonata |’idea che un’opera sia lo specchio di un “io” pieno e ben 
identificabile, quale é un creatore votato all’espressivita o un autore spinto alla 
prestazione. Guido fin qui si € mosso su questo terreno: tanto nei momenti in 
cui agiva da “maestro” riconosciuto, quanto nelle pause in cui si rifugiava nelle 
fantasie e nel ricordo, egli si poneva come fonte unica del suo discorso, come sua 
origine assoluta. Ma una simile condizione si rovescia proprio nell’ultima 
sequenza, quella che vede emergere una nuova prospettiva: in essa il regista 
incrocia due personaggi che si sovrappongono a lui e ne complicano I’azione. Il 
primo é Maurice, che si avvicina a Guido mentre sta andando via in auto e gli 
annuncia: “Siamo pronti a cominciare”. Il secondo é il fanciullo con il clarinetto, 
che introduce l’orchestrina dei clown e che esce di campo per ultimo, giusto 
prima della fine. Questi due personaggi consentono appunto a Guido di rompere 
la propria monoliticita e di riformulare il proprio statuto. Per un verso infatti 
essi sono soltanto dei suoi alter ego. Il fanciullo in modo esplicito: come 
dimostra la precedente sequenza del collegio, egli raffigura 1’infanzia del regista, 
con le sue prime scoperte e i suoi primi segreti. Maurice in modo piu indiretto: 
egli @ perd qualcuno che pratica sia l’esplorazione delle menti (tramite una 
telepata legge i pensieri pili segreti degli altri), sia la messa in scena (con la sua 
partner conduce un numero di varieta), e sotto quest’ aspetto é insieme quel che il 
regista vorrebbe essere e quel che @ chiamato ad essere. Guido dunque trova nei 
due personaggi dei propri rappresentanti: e in questo modo egli rimane uno. Ma 
per un altro verso Maurice e il fanciullo complicano la manovra. Lo si vede bene 
dal modo in cui il gesto di regia, finalmente ritrovato, si suddivide tra i presenti: 
& Maurice che ha il compito di introdurre i partecipanti alla passerella finale; 
dopodiché Guido afferra un megafono, e prima timidamente poi con decisione 
comincia a dirigere i movimenti della piccola folla; ed é infine il fanciullo che 
chiude la sequenza, rimanendo solo in campo a condurre i suoi musicanti, e 
decidendo con la sua uscita la fine stessa del film. Abbiamo insomma un 
passaggio di mano: Maurice inizia |’allestimento, il regista lo continua, il 
fanciullo lo chiude. Guido dunque é costretto a spartire il suo spazio d’azione; 
delega a dei rappresentanti una parte del suo operato, e intanto ne subisce 
l’iniziativa; egli, pur restando uno, diventa anche tre. 

Il risultato é la creazione di un sistema di porta-parola che si dipana 
indubbiamente a partire da Guido, ma che introduce anche una pluralita e una 


300 Francesco Casetti 


dispersione delle voci. Se & vero che il regista continua ad essere un punto di 
riferimento, @ anche vero che non é pit il solo ad avere in mano la partita: nuove 
figure intervengono sul suo dire, raccogliendone gli spunti, spostandone le linee 
di forza, rilanciandone la necessita. E se é vero che egli sempre al centro delle 
operazioni, magari per delega, @ anche vero che in qualche modo un po’ se ne 
estrania: chi lo sostituisce é pronto ad agire per proprio conto, prendendo in 
mano la bacchetta di comando. E emblematico allora che Guido ad un certo 
punto salga anche lui sulla passerella e scompaia tra i suoi stessi personaggi: 
egli da uno sbocco al suo latente esibizionismo (il suo diario segreto finisce 
finalmente in piazza . . .), ma insieme rinuncia alla sua posizione di forza (il 
creatore, montato in scena, non ha ormai alcun diritto in pit rispetto alle sue 
creature . . .). Insomma, in questa rete di porta-parola, colui che dovrebbe 
muovere il discorso, l’enunciatore, un po’ si perde; si moltiplica, si sposta, si 
confonde. 


4. Di una decostruzione possibile 


Questo sfaldamento del soggetto (per molti aspetti ambiguo, come diremo), non 
coinvolge solo Guido, ma anche chi ce ne presenta le vicende. La sequenza finale 
infatti introduce un ulteriore elemento di complicazione. Fino a qui avevamo 
potuto risalire alla “fonte” di ciascuna proposta, distinguendo non solo cid che 
era dell’uno o dell’altro, ma anche cid che era dei singoli personaggi e cid che era 
della storia che ce li aveva introdotti. Non a caso cercando di ricostruire i “film 
ideali” perseguiti rispettivamente dal regista e da chi lo circondava, avevamo 
potuto isolare dei materiali (sogni, parole, richieste . . .) che il film che ci 
scorreva sotto gli occhi non solo attribuiva ora a questo ora a quello, ma 
soprattutto non attribuiva a se stesso. Insomma, ogni enunciato aveva il suo 
enunciatore: sia gli enunciati ospitati da 8//2 , sia 8/2 come enunciato ospitante. 
L’ultima sequenza abolisce queste distinzioni. Chi la enuncia infatti? Non 
qualcuno che agisce all’interno delle vicende narrate; per quanto essa nasca dal 
gesto combinato di Maurice, di Guido e del fanciullo, non si presenta come loro 
costruzione mentale; non c’é alcun segno chiaro, alcuna transizione, che ce la 
faccia apparire come frutto della loro immaginazione. Ma neppure qualcuno che 
si pone al di fuori 0 al di sopra delle vicende narrate: qualcuno che per contrasto 
allo sguardo soggettivo dei personaggi dovrebbe adottare le misure 
dell’ oggettivita; mentre la sequenza non ha I’aria d’essere una pura constatazione 
di fatti. Diciamo allora che essa é enunciata da qualcuno che é nello stesso tempo 
dentro e fuori le vicende raccontate: qualcuno che si allinea con Guido e gli altri e 
che insieme da per cosi dire loro la vita. Questo enunciatore, 
contemporaneamente diegetico e extradiegetico, si era del resto gia affacciato nel 
film. Lo avevamo intravvisto ad esempio nella sequenza delle terme commentata 
dalla musica di Wagner: un lungo e complesso movimento di macchina aveva 


Archeologia del postmoderno italiano: 812 di Fellini 301 


come sorpreso i personaggi in scena e li aveva costretti a rivolgersi alla 
cinepresa; quest’ ultima allora si era rivelata come la causa dei comportamenti di 
chi veniva inquadrato (ne sollecitava la reazione), e insieme come una presenza in 
qualche modo implicata nella storia (una ‘presenza sensibile e tuttavia non 
visibile); insomma, qualcosa che consentiva alle immagini di esistere e che nello 
stesso tempo si dimostrava pronta a entrare nel cuore di queste immagini. 
L’ultima sequenza, pur formalmente cosi diversa, ripete l’impianto che abbiamo 
appena descritto: anche qui possiamo dire che chi enuncia é la macchina da presa: 
occhio che da forma ad un mondo, e che ora trattenendosi sulla sua soglia, ora 
calandosi nel corpo di un personaggio, pud anche esserne partecipe; occhio 
costitutivo, ma anche non ancorato ad una funzione unica e fissa, e che dunque é 
talvolta di nessuno, talaltra di qualcuno, talaltra ancora di tutti. Occhio che per 
metonimia ci rimanda al cinema nel suo complesso, alla macchina e al 
dispositivo. 

Ecco allora chi muove |’ultima sequenza, e con essa |’ opera resasi d’un tratto 
possibile: la macchina da presa, il cinema stesso, ma intesi come occhi 
camaleontici, senza un’unica identita. Lo sfaldamento del soggetto investe anche 
l’enunciatore della vicenda di Guido e dei suoi sodali: anch’esso é pronto ad 
assumere questa o quella maschera, senza che ce ne sia una che gli garantisce la 
centralita nel gioco; anch’esso pud operare su pil piani, all’interno 
dell’enunciazione enunciante o all’ interno dell’enunciazione enunciata, senza che 
nessuno d’essi si ponga come “fondativo” rispetto all’altro. Il terzo “film ideale”, 
quello che il finale ci apre e che retrospettivamente coincide con I’intero 8//2, 
riposa appunto su questo sfaldamento, su questa decostruzione. 

Certo, decostruzione ambigua. Non si pud infatti dimenticare che 8//2 tiene 
aperta la strada anche ad un’altra ipotesi, e cioé quella di una sorta di 
compromesso tra i primi progetti proposti; il film che ripercorriamo all’ indietro 
si pud anche leggere come il tentativo di coniugare 1’io romantico, inquieto e 
egocentrico, con 1’io industriale, fattosi immagine di marca (per non parlare poi 
dell’idea che altri testi, a cominciare da quelli giornalistico-critici, ripetono 
spesso, e cioé quella di un monumento alla persona di Fellini). Decostruzione 
ambigua dunque perché manterrebbe aperto un momento di “sutura”, vuoi nel 
sogno di un creatore che si fa anche “firma” o “griffa”, vuoi nel riferimento ad 
una identita anagrafica, quella del “regista ufficiale”, appunto F. F. E nondimeno 
decostruzione avviata in modo chiaro, attraverso un vacillamento di chi 
(personaggio o istanza) si trova a guidare la partita. 

A partire da questa possibile decostruzione si capisce allora come si possano 
instaurare le nuove misure che, come prima si diceva, caratterizzano |’opera che 
emerge a partire dal finale. Se i contenuti diventano indecidibili, & perché essi 
non hanno pili una precisa appartenenza: non c’é pili un enunciatore unico e 
compatto a cui essi possono essere imputati. Se la linea espositiva adotta la 
frammentazione, @ perché essa riposa su di un fitto lavoro di incastro: lo 
sviluppo del discorso vede intervenire continui cambi di mano. E infine se il 


302 Francesco Casetti 


film risulta inclassificabile,  perché non rientra in un solo universo di discorso: 
ciascuna voce ha la sua tonalita, ciascuno sguardo la sua prospettiva. 

Ancora, a partire da questa decostruzione si pud anche capire l’impressione di 
“piattezza” che quest’opera da. Non che essa manchi di spessore; al contrario. Si 
vuol solo dire che essa non ha un “cuore” che tutto giustifica e che si possa 
raggiungere con un lavoro di “scavo”. I suoi diversi piani si incastrano e si 
sovrappongono senza una gerarchia preordinata, senza il senso di una prospettiva. 
“Dietro” Maurice c’é Guido, come “dietro” a questo c’é quello; dietro la scena c’é 
il suo enunciatore come “dietro” a questo c’é quella; “dietro” a ciascuna cosa ce 
n’é semplicemente un’altra. 

E a partire da questa decostruzione si capisce infine come |’unica formula che 
puo definire il terzo “film ideale” @ che esso si fa: costruzione che trova in sé e in 
sé sola le sue ragioni e il suo movimento, spazio di accoglimento che opera su 
moto proprio. Diciamo meglio: semplice testo basato su di un principio di 
esposizione. 

Dunque moltiplicazione e dispersione dell’io; e a partir di qui indecidibilita 
dei contenuti, frammentazione della linea espositiva, inclassificabilita del 
discorso, assenza di un centro o di un cuore, funzionamento per moto proprio. E 
lecito allora intravvedere in queste caratteristiche quelle che l’opera postmoderna 
predichera, di li a qualche anno, come proprie? 


Universita Cattolica - Milano 


Archeologia del postmoderno italiano: 81/2 di Fellini 303 


Referenze bibliografiche 


Calabrese Omar, L’ eta neobarocca, Roma, Laterza, 1987. 

Jameson Fredric, Post-modernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, “New 
Left Review” 984. 

Lyotard Jean Francois, La Condition postmoderne, Paris, Minuit, 1979. 

Metz Christian, La Construction ‘en abime’ dans Huit et demi de Fellini, in Essais sur 
la signification au cinéma, Paris, Klincksieck, 1968. 


Claudio Mazzola 


Il Deserto rosso di Antonioni: 
visione anticipatrice del deserto post-moderno 





In un'intervista del 1962 (Alpert), Michelangelo Antonioni afferma che il suo 
fare cinema é soprattutto rivolto a “ricreare il realismo” e non tanto a “mostrare 
la realta”, come invece aveva fatto il neorealismo; con questa frase il regista 
indica, con estrema chiarezza, l’impossibilita di continuare a mantenere certi 
obbiettivi e ad esprimersi artisticamente con quei mezzi che avevano contribuito 
alla vitalita della cultura italiana dal 1945 alla fine degli anni ’50. La disfatta di 
Mussolini e la caduta della monarchia non significarono, come molti credettero 
in un primo momento, né |’automatico raggiungimento di un equilibrio politico 
e sociale, né la possibilita di cancellare decenni di incomprensioni e discordie 
sopite durante la dittatura. A ben poco servi l’ingenuo ottimismo dei pit per 
colmare deficienze, soprattutto politiche, che solo quindici anni pit tardi 
sarebbero poi riemerse, presentandosi in tutta la loro irrisolta gravita. La fine 
degli anni ’50 deve essere quindi vista come un importante punto d’arrivo e di 
svolta per la societa italiana post-bellica; da un lato, perché si impone la 
necessita di fare un primo bilancio politico e sociale, mentre, dall’altro, diventa 
quasi obbligatoria la necessita di tenere il passo con i mutamenti, soprattutto 
tecnologici, che si stavano verificando a un ritmo molto intenso in tutta Europa. 
L’eredita del neorealismo doveva tenere conto dell’importanza ideologico- 
espressiva di cid che era stato prodotto dopo il 1945, ma doveva anche 
manifestarsi con una revisione dei valori storico-politici stabilitisi alla fine della 
guerra. Che il contesto soprattutto sociale fosse ormai radicalmente mutato lo 
dimostra anche il fatto che l’industria cinematografica fagocitO con estrema 
facilita alcune caratteristiche del neorealismo (quale i! facile ottimismo e un certo 
paternalismo nei confronti delle classi pili povere) che, svuotate del loro 
contenuto politico, divennero strutture portanti di film commerciali e di puro 
intrattenimento. 

La necessita di rivedere modi e forme di rappresentazione della realta si 
impose quindi come scelta espressiva estremamente urgente; in quest’ ottica, e in 
virtii delle loro scelte artistiche, registi come Fellini, Visconti e Antonioni 
devono essere a ragione considerati i pit’ validi continuatori del neorealismo. Il 
loro modo di porsi di fronte alla realt4 tiene infatti ben presente la lezione del 
neorealismo e, nel contempo, riflette scelte di carattere stilistico-contenutistico 
che meglio rispecchiano quei cambiamenti politico-sociali che tutti loro stavano 
vivendo. Pitt specificatamente si pud dire che, da un lato, sia Fellini (soprattutto 
con La dolce vita) che Visconti (con Rocco e i suoi fratelli) sono i testimoni pit 


Il Deserto rosso di Antonioni: visione anticipatrice del postmoderno 305 


attenti dei mutamenti prodotti dalla ricostruzione industriale del dopoguerra nella 
societa coeva; dall’altro, invece, Antonioni pud essere considerato il primo a 
registrare e anticipare gli effetti negativi proprio di quella fase rappresentata da 
Fellini e da Visconti. Antonioni descrive, in particolare, quel momento di 
sviluppo della societa moderna che Jean-Francois Lyotard definisce post- 
industriale dal punto di vista economico, e post-moderno da quello culturale; ed é 
interessante che |’ autore francese dati 1’inizio di questa fase proprio alla fine degli 
anni ’50. In un certo senso, Fellini e Visconti illustrano il passaggio da 
un’economia di guerra a una di pace, impiegando ancora un discorso narrativo- 
letterario prima che cinematografico. Antonioni, invece, comprendendo 
l’importanza del mezzo visivo e la necessita di sfruttare la cinepresa per quello 
che pud raccontare — prima che idee e concetti le vengano imposti — stabilisce 
dei nuovi parametri narrativi che risultano essere pill consoni a una realta post- 
industriale. 

Nel passaggio dal contesto in cui operavano i rappresentanti del neorealismo 
a quella in cui lavora Antonioni, si registra un fondamentale mutamento nel 
ruolo dell’intellettuale nei confronti della societa. Esponenti del neorealismo, 
quali De Sica, Rossellini e De Santis, hanno svolto una funzione importante nel 
riportare il cinema (e con esso |’arte in generale) a contatto con la societa ancora 
in subbuglio dopo |’esperienza fascista. La loro opera @ soprattutto testimonianza 
di un impegno che concilia l’artista con l’ambiente circostante; come dice 
Lyotard: 


. in the diverse invitations to suspend artistic experimentation, there is an 
identical call for order, a desire for unity, for identity, for security, or popularity (in 
the sense of Offentlichkeit, of “finding a public”). Artists and writers must be brought 
back into the bosom of the community, or at least, if the latter is considered to be ill, 


they must be assigned the task of healing it. 
(73) 


Antonioni dimostra che questa fase é ormai stata superata e si deve affrontare 
il fatto che la riproduzione artistica sia in crisi perché sta mutando sia il concetto 
di comunicabilita che quello di comunicazione. La rappresentazione oggettiva, 
tanto ricercata dal neorealismo, non ha e non puo pil avere una funzione 
taumaturgica, ma al contrario diventa la difficile e problematica fonte di scontro 
tra societa e artista. Per questa ragione, il regista deve affrontare quello che 
definiremmo “‘il non rappresentabile”, cioé una realta stravolta nei suoi principi 
rappresentativi. Non importa quale sia la scelta stilistica dell’ artista, resta il fatto 
che il risultato non puo che essere un prodotto che per la difficolta di concepire il 
rappresentabile é caratterizzato da una struttura di base in costante mutamento. E 
ancora Lyotard che, da questo punto di vista, fornisce una perfetta definizione 
dell’opera di Antonioni in ottica post-moderna: 


306 Claudio Mazzola 


The postmodern would be that which, in the modern, puts forward the unpresentable 
in presentation itself; that which denies itself the solace of good forms, the 
consensus of a taste which would make it possible to share collectively the nostalgia 
for the unattainable; that which searches for new presentations, not in order to enjoy 
them but in order to impart a stronger sense of the unpresentable. . . . The artist and 
the writer, then, are working without rules in order to formulate the rules of what will 


have been done. 
(81) 


La ricerca di Antonioni é tutta rivolta quindi a esplorare la rappresentabilita 
cinematografica di una realté che non sembra pit rappresentabile, dove devono 
essere rivisti i parametri che correlano spazio e tempo all’interno dell’ azione 
filmica. A questo riguardo, si veda come i protagonisti de J] deserto rosso, ed in 
particolare Giuliana, vivano in una dimensione temporale che potremmo definire 
di “gia vissuto”; i loro movimenti cioé, pur essendo tentativi rivolti a esplorare 
nuove possibilita, finiscono con il cozzare contro una realta fisica e psicologica 
che impedisce loro di registrare un qualsiasi progresso, cioé di arrivare a un 
mutamento sostanziale del loro stato fisico-mentale. Per Giuliana @ come 
brancolare nel buio, passando da una fase all’altra senza un confortante senso di 
progressione. 

Antonioni comunica questa difficolta di crearsi degli spazi propri dilatando i 
tempi del film, creando cioé delle minime unita narrative che in un primo 
momento disorientano le aspettative dello spettatore. Questa apparente staticita 
della storia @ paragonabile ai tempi morti de L’ avventura, dove il senso di vuoto 
e di smarrimento é legato a un’azione che non pare procedere. Se mettiamo in 
relazione questo vuoto, che corrisponde a una crisi di tipo esistenziale, alla noia 
riscontrabile ne La dolce vita o all’illusione di benessere che ossessiona 1 
protagonisti di Rocco e i suoi fratelli, possibile rilevare come questi ultimi due 
stati si collochino in un momento della societa ancora pieno di certezze, anche se 
difficili da inseguire e da ottenere. Nel “deserto postmoderno” di Antonioni, 
l’illusione di benessere e la noia sono gia state superate; la dicotomia realta- 
sogno, che caratterizza i film di Visconti e di Fellini, svanisce in quanto non é 
pill costituita da segni in netta opposizione; la realta @ ormai indistinguibile, 
irriconoscibile e manca, di conseguenza, il suo opposto. In pid di un’occasione, 
Giuliana é incapace di vedere e analizzare chiaramente cid che la circonda; basti 
ricordare l’episodio in cui ella va a trovare Corrado nel suo albergo. Arrivata 
davanti al portiere, ella dimentica per un istante persino il nome della persona a 
cui si sta recando a far visita. L’arrivo della donna é presentato prima dal punto di 
vista del portiere, poi in un rapido contro-campo si passa quasi a una soggettiva 
di quello che Giuliana vede. Tutto @ significativamente fuori fuoco, mentre ella 
parla non si capisce a chi si rivolga, la sua persona si muove in uno stato di 
assoluto caos percettivo. Questo distacco dalla realta continua nella lunga 
sequenza che segue nell’appartamento di Corrado. La cinepresa mantiene infatti 


Il Deserto rosso di Antonioni: visione anticipatrice del postmoderno 307 


questo suo duplice ruolo di distacco e di identificazione con Giuliana. 
L’appartamento diviene uno spazio dove i contorni delle pareti e degli oggetti 
(soprattutto il letto) perdono la loro dimensione reale per assumere le 
caratteristiche di corpi contundenti e minacciosi che violano lo spazio 
immaginario della donna. I movimenti della macchina da presa accrescono questo 
senso di pericolo schiacciandola contro le pareti della stanza o mostrandoci quello 
che lei crede di vedere. Solo alla fine della lunga sequenza la cinepresa inquadra in 
campo totale, con una dominante di colore rosa, la camera da letto nelle sue reali 
dimensioni che si rivelano tutt’altro che minacciose. 

L’improvviso vuoto, che si potrebbe quasi definire emotivo, tra realta e 
sogno é messo ulteriormente in risalto dal racconto fantastico che Giuliana fa al 
bambino, improvvisamente incapace di muoversi dal letto. Ricca di simboli e di 
contrasti che hanno un particolare significato per la donna, la narrazione non ha 
pero alcuna funzione taumaturgica per il figlio, che, soprattutto alla fine della 
storia, mostra solo distacco e indifferenza. L’episodio va quindi visto piuttosto 
come lo sforzo di Giuliana di riuscire ad immaginare un luogo in cui tutto sia 
diverso dalla propria realta quotidiana. Il risultato, pero, ¢ abbastanza patetico 
perché il sogno sembra pit che altro una parodia che le causa una grave crisi 
depressiva quando scopre che I’infermita del figlio si rivela tutta una finzione. 
Vale anche la pena ricordare che spazialmente il sogno allude a una fuga 
dall’ambiente domestico che, come ricorda anche Claudine Hermann (Les 
Voleuses de langue 150), @ il luogo dove la subordinazione della donna si 
manifesta con maggior enfasi. Nel suo appartamento, Giuliana si trova a disagio; 
la funzionalita dell’arredamento sembra inversamente proporzionale alla sua 
capacita di sfruttare lo spazio che dovrebbe esserle familiare. Ella si trascina da 
una stanza all’altra in un ambiente asettico (dove dominano il bianco e 1’azzurro), 
senza avere un senso delle proprie azioni, senza una precisa finalita data al 
proprio agire. I] marito la tratta con sufficienza e distacco, fornendole solo delle 
ipocrite forme di conforto quasi ella non fosse neppure una persona degna del suo 
affetto. L’inconciliabilita della donna con cid che la circonda si manifesta in 
modo perfettamente uguale sia negli ambienti interni che in quelli esterni. Fuori 
di casa ella mostra la stessa mancanza di capacita nel coordinare i propri 
movimenti in modo razionale. La macchina da presa, in campi medi o lunghi, la 
segue girare senza una specifica direzione, senza una meta prefissata verso la 
quale poter orientare i propri sforzi. Nelle vicinanze della fabbrica Giuliana 
passeggia con il figlio come circondata e intrappolata dalle linee verticali e 
orizzontali che delimitano gli impianti. Quasi come una forma di ribellione, ella 
si comporta come se avesse completamente dimenticato le regole della societa e 
divora con avidita animalesca il panino quasi strappato dalle mani dell’operaio 
che lo stava mangiando, mentre comunica con il figlio solo con mezze frasi, con 
gesti quasi primitivi. Dell’assurdita di questa situazione é un perfetto esempio 
anche la visita che lei fa nell’ ufficio del marito; Antonioni riesce molto bene a 
costruire la scena sulla mancanza di una motivazione che leghi la presenza nello 


308 Claudio Mazzola 


stesso luogo di Ugo e Giuliana. La loro estraneita si impone tra le false premure 
di lui e la timorosa indecisione di lei. Ed @ proprio la visione della donna che il 
regista cerca di elaborare, alternando alla presenza oggettiva della fabbrica — 
nella sua imponenza fisica (spesso in campi lunghi) — una visione pit 
soggettiva che renda meglio lo stato d’animo di Giuliana. In questo caso la 
cinepresa seziona le forme e i volumi degli elementi che compongono gli 
impianti, fornendo dettagli che risaltano soprattutto per la ricchezza cromatica e 
per il rapporto spaziale che si stabilisce con Giuliana. Prevalgono campi medi o 
ravvicinati, inquadrature con angolazioni devianti dalla norma e una profondita di 
campo particolarmente accentuata che permette, in pil di un’occasione, di 
ribaltare i dettami classici dello spazio concesso alla figura femminile nel 
cinema. La forma e i colori dei pezzi dell’impianto sono estrapolati dal loro 
insieme, perdono il loro immediato collegamento con la fabbrica, cioé la loro 
funzionalita, e vengono indirettamente inglobati nel processo conoscitivo di 
Giuliana. Millicent Marcus fa notare il particolare rapporto che si stabilisce tra la 
donna e quello che !e sta attorno: 


By using Giuliana as his visual receptor within the film, Antonioni is exemplifying 
Pasolini’s notion of “free indirect subjective” which is the cinematic equivalent of 
the free indirect discourse in literature. It is by means of this technique that cinema 
realizes its highest poetic possibilities, according to Pasolini, freeing itself from the 
restrictions of conventional narrative form and allowing itself to return to its 
expressive source in preconscious thought. 


(93) 


Questa applicazione cinematografica del discorso libero indiretto non deve perd 
portare a scartare arbitrariamente la sua visione come quella di una donna malata 
che non puo fornire una valida testimonianza sulle condizioni della societa 
contemporanea. Molto pit di quanto non lo siano il marito o Corrado, Giuliana 
é una vittima perché si rifiuta di entrare attivamente a far parte del meccanismo 
che i due uomini gelosamente custodiscono e che lei evita, ma che purtroppo 
non é capace di sostituire. L’incidente automobilistico diventa, da un canto, la 
scusa per una forma di segregazione di comodo operata dal marito, e dall’altro 
stimola la vuota e interessata consolazione di Corrado. Suo malgrado, ella si 
trova esclusa da ogni posizione chiave di potere e viene relegata a un ruolo di 
assoluta impotenza di fronte al condizionamento materiale e morale impostole 
da Ugo e da Corrado. L’incapacita della protagonista di scegliere, di volere e di 
sentire é sintomatico di una crisi che va anche al di 1a del suo rapporto personale 
con i due uomini, esce dai confini del privato per diventare il riflesso di un male 
sociale che guasta, prima di tutto, l’equilibrio esterno dell’individuo. Ogni gesto 
evidenzia |’incapacita di stabilire un contatto, non solo con le altre persone, ma 
anche con gli oggetti che la circondano. Gli oggetti, come del resto la fabbrica, 
privati della loro funzione pratica, sono diventati un bene il cui significato @ 


II Deserto rosso di Antonioni: visione anticipatrice del postmoderno 309 


stato traslato per assumere un pill vago valore rappresentativo di benessere. Ne 
consegue che é anche mutato il concetto di bisogno, che non é pit guidato da un 
senso di utilita personale ma da pit forti imposizioni esterne, basate su valori in 
costante mutamento che |’individuo (Giuliana, nel caso specifico) non riesce a 
registrare. Il classico rapporto emittente/ricevente e produttore/consumatore ¢ 
ormai saturo, per cui si riscontra l’esistenza di un momento di transizione da una 
societa orientata ad accettare un concetto puritano del lavoro, dove lo sforzo viene 
compensato dal potere d’acquisto del denaro, a una societa che si scopre pil 
edonistica e sempre meno puritana in cui lo spendere @ accompagnato dalla 
volonta di far dimenticare che la merce si paga. Giuliana non accondiscende pero 
a diventare parte di questo passaggio, non sottosta ai termini che prevedono il 
progressivo annullamento della libera scelta dell’individuo. Nel momento in cui 
la sequenza desiderio-oggetto-utilita viene in qualche modo alterata o messa in 
crisi, si genera una specie di corto circuito nell’individuo, che ricorda da vicino il 
comportamento di Giuliana. Baudrillard descrive nel seguente modo questa 
situazione di alterazione: 


The world of objects and of needs would thus be a world of general hysteria. Just as the 
organs and the functions of the body in hysterical conversion become a gigantic 
paradigm which the symptom replaces and refers to, in consumption objects become 
a vast paradigm designating another language through which something else speaks. 
We could add that this evanescence and continual mobility reaches a point where it 
becomes impossible to determine the specific objectivity of needs, just as it is 
impossible in hysteria to define the specific objectivity of an illness, for the simple 


reason that it does not exist. 
(45) 


Giuliana vive costantemente lo stato di alienazione descritto da Baudrillard, a 
nulla le serve la possibilita di evadere da questa situazione tramite il negozio che 
vuole aprire. La possibilita concreta di mettersi nella posizione di chi controlla e 
stabilisce le regole del gioco non é reale perché il negozio non @ uno spazio 
conquistato da lei ma qualcosa concessole a malincuore da Ugo. Questi non esita 
a definire poco decorosa |’attivita che ella vuole intraprendere, condannando sin 
dall’inizio qualsiasi iniziativa che possa sfuggire al suo diretto controllo. Il 
negozio resta completamente spoglio dall’inizio alla fine, ella non sa esattamente 
che cosa vendere e a chi vendere, sembra che sia incapace di legare il suo bisogno 
di realizzarsi con le esigenze del sistema, ma l’apparente possibilita di gestire il 
potere che le viene concesso é dovuto almeno in parte alla coscienza che si tratta 
di una falsa opportunita. Chi riesce invece apparentemente a evitare |’ alienazione 
di cui parla Braudrillard sono Corrado e Ugo, i quali controllano e manipolano i 
bisogni e la vita degli altri senza scrupoli; si veda, per esempio, come Corrado 
usi un tono falso e ammaliatorio durante la riunione con gli operai interessati ad 
andare a lavorare in Patagonia. La facilita dei due uomini di adattamento non 
significa perd che, in ultima analisi, possano sfuggire alle ripercussioni negative 


310 Claudio Mazzola 


delle condizioni imposte dal meccanismo che loro credono di governare. 
L’episodio nella baracca mette in rilievo il loro disperato tentativo di ritrovare un 
contatto umano che é ormai reso impossibile dalle loro condizioni di vita. I 
ridicoli giochi erotici comunicano un senso di squallore che é il riflesso della 
loro poverta interiore. La misteriosa nave, portatrice di una non ben identificata 
malattia, approda al molo scoprendo le debolezze e la vulnerabilita del gruppo. 
La minaccia é tanto fisica quanto psicologica, in pochi istanti la falsa gioia 
svanisce e il panico si impadronisce di tutti loro, simbolicamente incapaci di 
muoversi nella nebbia che li circonda. 

Nonostante lo stato di alienazione accomuni tutti 1 protagonisti di questo 
episodio, si possono notare diversi livelli di comprensione ed accettazione della 
realta; Giuliana é la pid vulnerabile di tutti e si lascia prendere dal panico, 
rischiando di uccidersi nel tentativo di scappare dal molo in automobile. Negli 
altri c’é quasi un senso di rassegnazione, di silenziosa accettazione di cid che li 
circonda. Questo desiderio di ignorare i problemi rivela la coscienza di aver 
raggiunto uno stadio da cui non si pud tornare indietro, uno stadio in cui si pud 
e si vuole accettare solo il proprio spazio circostante, senza preoccuparsi neppure 
di tentare di trovare una soluzione; non é un caso che Antonioni presenti una 
serie di episodi caratterizzati dalla significativa mancanza di una risposta logica. 
La malattia del figlio, l’arrivo della nave, la situazione nella fabbrica, creano uno 
stato di tensione e di sospensione che viene accresciuto proprio perché manca un 
dialogo e un’intesa fra i protagonisti. In questo senso, “il deserto” di Antonioni 
non é semplicemente la metafora della landa disabitata, spoglia e priva di 
qualsiasi forma di vita a cui sono ridotte le zone adiacenti al porto, ma é anche il 
deserto in cui vive ogni persona incurante di quello che succede agli altri. Come 
dice Baudrillard: 


Today, we are everywhere surrounded by the remarkable conspicuousness of 
consumption and affluence, established by the multiplication of objects, services, 
and material goods. This now constitutes a fundamental mutation in the ecology of 
the human species. Strictly speaking, men of wealth are no longer surrounded by 
other human beings, as they have been in the past, but by objects. Their daily 
exchange is no longer with their fellows, but rather, statistically as a function of 
some ascending curve, with the acquisition and manipulation of goods and messages: 
from the rather complex domestic organization with its dozen of technical slaves to 
the “urban estate” with all the material machinery of communication and professional 
activity, and the permanent festive celebration of objects in advertising with the 
hundreds of daily mass media messages; from the proliferation of somewhat 
obsessional objects to the symbolic psychodrama which fuels the nocturnal objects 
that come to haunt us even in our dreams. 


(29) 


Questa distanza tra le persone é riscontrabile in ogni inquadratura de II deserto 
rosso. Se da un lato perd l’incomunicabilita tra Giuliana e Ugo é evidente sin 


Il Deserto rosso di Antonioni: visione anticipatrice del postmoderno 311 


dall’inizio, cid che sottolinea ancora di pit l’isolamento personale é la comparsa 
di Corrado. Con lui ella spera di poter stabilire un rapporto umano, crede di poter 
dare un senso alle proprie azioni, ed @ anche pronta a superare una forma di 
frenante pudore sessuale pur di riuscire ad avvicinarsi a Corrado. Questi perd 
mostra solo una facciata diversa da Ugo, perché in sostanza i due uomini la 
trattano con lo stesso tipo di accondiscendenza e superiorita. La progressione del 
film non é tanto riscontrabile nella capacita della donna di adeguarsi alla realta, 
ma nell’inaspettato desiderio di cambiare atteggiamento nei confronti degli 
uomini che condizionano la sua vita. Questa acquisita lucidita Giuliana la mostra 
in almeno due occasioni: nel finale, prima con Corrado e poi con il figlio, 
mentre il marito scompare simbolicamente dalla scena. Nell’ultimo incontro con 
Corrado, proprio nel negozio ancora spoglio, lei gli dice: “Ho fatto di tutto per 
riinserirmi e ci sono riuscita, sono riuscita persino ad essere una moglie 
infedele.” Ma questo é solo un ironico riinserimento, ella aggiunge infatti: “C’é 
qualcosa di terribile nella realta e io non so cos’, nessuno me lo dice”. 
Significativa é l’incapacita di Corrado di mettere insieme una risposta che abbia 
valore. La scena é dominata dall’acquisita dignité della donna che sembra 
finalmente uscita dal suo stato di torpore per porsi al di sopra delle squallide 
speranze offertele dalla realt4. Il breve discorso che fa al figlio, di fronte alle torri 
che sperdono vapori inquinanti nell’ aria, solo superficialmente indicativo di una 
tangibile soluzione alla sua portata. La forza della scena é invece tutta nel tono 
non proprio persuasivo usato da Giuliana; a lei manca la convinzione perché il 
figlio un piccolo Corrado o un piccolo Ugo, si diverte solo con giocattoli 
meccanici e, nell’episodio della presunta malattia, ha preso in giro la madre 
proprio come hanno fatto gli altri due uomini. 

In una classica struttura circolare il film si chiude come era iniziato, cioé 
con Giuliana che passeggia all’esterno della fabbrica con il bambino per mano. 
Proprio come era successo in molte altre occasioni, la cinepresa di Antonioni 
cessa per un breve spazio di tempo di fungere da terza persona narrante e 
acquisisce invece la facolta di rivelare un aspetto del personaggio femminile 
dall’interno. II suo sguardo sull’impianto industriale contiene la consapevolezza 
dei limiti che quella societa le impone, ma presenta anche una dignita che 
nessuno dei protagonisti maschili sara mai in grado di mostrare. Non c’é pill quel 
senso di soggettivo stravolgimento della realta notato in precedenza; i bidoni dei 
rifiuti industriali sono visti in campo ravvicinato, prima fuori fuoco come una 
massa informe e poi in campo totale appaiono nella loro quasi assurda bellezza. 
Solo Giuliana @ la cosciente testimone di questa drammatica situazione. Ines 
Hedges, discutendo della subordinazione della donna all’uomo nello spazio 
cinematografico, sostiene che 


women are conventionally positioned in the three dimensional, diegetic space in a 
manner that makes them seem more passive than the male characters. In the first 
place, most point-of-view shots are authorized by the look of male characters. 


312 Claudio Mazzola 


Secondly, women characters are less likely to initiate action. 


(88) 


Contrariamente a tutte queste convenzioni, Antonioni é in grado di fornire, se 
non proprio il punto di vista di Giuliana, sicuramente parte di quello che lei 
sente e vede. Qui il regista evita di cadere in uno scontato paternalismo 
d’occasione facendo coincidere certe sue scelte stilistiche con un discorso sui 
mutamenti nella societé italiana contemporanea. Antonioni anticipa gli effetti 
collaterali della sfrenata e incontrollata corsa all’industrializzazione del secondo 
dopoguerra e suggerisce anche che dall’uomo non sono arrivate che risposte prive 
di qualsiasi validita ai problemi della societa. La donna, invece, nella sua 
vulnerabilita e nella sua impotenza, emerge come la figura dominante di questa 
societa postmoderna, una figura ancora in transizione ma sicuramente dotata di 
risorse morali ed intellettuali che l’uomo pare aver momentaneamente perso. 


Vassar College 


Il Deserto rosso di Antonioni: visione anticipatrice del postmoderno 313 


Opere citate 


Alpert Hollis, A Talk with Antonioni, “Saturday Review,” October 27,1962. 

Baudrillard Jean, Selected Writings, Stanford, Stanford UP, 1988. 

Hedges Ines, Breaking the Frame, Bloomington, Indiana UP, 1991. 

Herman Claudine, Les Voleuses de langue, Paris, Editions des Femmes, 1976. 

Lyotard Jean-Francois, The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge, 
Minneapolis, The U of Minnesota P, 1984. 

Marcus Millicent, /talian Cinema in the Light of Neorealism, Princeton, Princeton 
UP, 1986. 


John P. Welle 


‘““Maciste magretto della letteratura”: 
Postmodernism in Pasolini's Film Poems 


In considering the massive influence of film in the twentieth century, Raymond 
Williams has observed that “the remarkable innovations of the cinema.. . 
might reasonably be described as the invention of a new mode, the cinematic, 
interacting with older kinds, types and forms but also undoubtedly creating some 
important new forms” (202). Viewed in its multifaceted entirety, Pier Paolo 
Pasolini's career as a poet and filmmaker provides a singular exemplum of the 
“cinematic mode.” As is generally known, Pasolini’s encounter with the cinema 
finds expression in his novels, poetry, and prose narratives, while his work as a 
filmmaker, as a film critic, and as a film theorist was profoundly marked by his 
vocation as a poet. Andrea Zanzotto, for example, has observed that Pasolini 
tended to “‘attribuire al cinema stesso dati di fatto e dati di procedimento che sono 
propri della poesia” (225). 

Zanzotto’s remarks on the interchange of film and poetry in Pasolini’s career 
can be read as part of an ongoing discourse concerning the underlying paradigms 
informing the vast artistic and theoretical production of this Italian 
poet/filmmaker. Despite a general tendency to refer to Pasolini’s film work as a 
“cinema di poesia,” and the propensity to consider his literary writings under the 
sign of “contamination,” no one has yet undertaken a systematic analysis of the 
fertile cross-pollination of poetry and cinema in Pasolini’s oeuvre.! While such a 
complex and far-reaching topic would obviously require a book of its own, in the 
present context I propose to focus on a number of Pasolini’s texts from the late 
1950s and early 1960s that foreground the relationship between cinema and 
poetry. Despite Pasolini’s own characterization of his turn from poetry to film 
as a relatively uncomplicated “change of technique” (cited in Stack 28), his film 
poems, i.e. poetic texts with filmic references, reveal a deeper anxiety concerning 
the diminished cultural status of literature. This anxiety was to mark his career 
from this point forward. It expresses itself through his numerous filmic 
adaptations of literary texts and can be read in his tendency to “contaminate” his 
poetry with allusions to film. Furthermore, given Linda Hutcheon’s assertion 


1 The best overviews of Pasolini’s life and work remain those of Golino, Naldini, Rinaldi, and 
Santato. For a selection of criticism on Pasolini and for an analysis of critical trends in Pasolini 
scholarship, see Martellini and Voza. For an illuminating study of Pasolini’s use of poetry in 
some of his films from the 1960s, see Brunetta. 





Postmodernism in Pasolini’s Film Poems 315 


that postmodernism signals a pervasive “transgression of the boundaries between 
genres, between disciplines or discourses, between high and mass culture, and . . 
. between practice and theory” (119), Pasolini’s experience of the cinematic mode 
in his career as poet, filmmaker, and theorist can be fruitfully related to current 
efforts to categorize postmodernism.” 

One of the first lengthy references to the cinema in Pasolini’s poetry is 
found in La religione del mio tempo. Entitled “Proiezione al Nuovo di Roma 
citta aperta,” this poem is one of the earliest and most successful poetic reactions 
to a neorealist film. Pasolini describes the total filmic experience from his first 
glimpse of the poster advertising the film to the actual viewing of the work 
itself. The poem begins thusly: 


Ma che colpo al cuore, quando, su un liso 

cartellone . . . Mi avvicino, guardo il colore 

gia d’un altro tempo, che ha il caldo viso 

ovale, dell’eroina, lo squallore 

eroico del povero, opaco manifesto. 

Subito entro: scosso da un interno clamore, 

deciso a tremare nel ricordo, 

a consumare la gloria del mio gesto. 

Entro nell’arena, all’ultimo spettacolo, 

senza vita, con grige persone, 

parenti, amici, sparsi sulle panche, 

persi nell’ombra in cerchi distinti 

e biancastri, nel fresco ricettacolo... 
(Poesie 189) 


He goes on to categorize his emotions as Roberto Rossellini’s Roma citta aperta 
unfolds on the screen before him. 


Subito, alle prime inquadrature, 
mi travolge e rapisce . . . l’intermittance 


2 Because I am interested primarily in issues regarding literary historiography, I rely on the 
definitions of modernity and postmodemity, modemism and postmodernism as offered by 
Jochen Schulte-Sasse: “Modernity . . . would mean a form of society or social organization 
characterized by industrialization, so-called high capitalism, etc. Its beginnings can be found in 
the eighteenth century and its culmination in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The 
cultural precipitates of this socio-historical period should be called modernism. . . . the term 
‘modernism’ should include products of both so-called high culture and mass culture. In an 
analogous manner, the term postmodemity should designate a period of material reproduction of 
society that has succeeded the period of modemity; whereas postmodemism should refer solely 
to the mode of cultural reproduction of that socio-historical period. The inflationary and often 
contradictory use of the term postmodernism does not have to concem us as long as it is 
understood that postmodemity and postmodernism refer to qualitative changes in society and 
their cultural manifestations” (6). 


316 John P. Welle 


du coeur. Mi trovo nelle scure 

vie della memoria, nelle stanze 

misteriose dove 1’uomo fisicamente é altro, 

e il passato, bagna col suo pianto... 

Eppure, dal lungo uso fatto esperto, 

non perdo i fili: ecco . . . la Casilina, 

su cui tristemente si aprono 

le porte della citta di Rossellini... 

ecco l’epico paesaggio neorealista, 

coi fili del telegrafo, i selciati, i pini, 

i muretti scrostati, la mistica 

folla perduta nel daffare quotidiano, 

le tetre forme della dominazione nazista .. . 
(Poesie 189) 


This poem crystallizes the electric charge that neorealist films had on Pasolini 
and illuminates an important moment in the pre-history of his career as a 
filmmaker. Pasolini reveals here his interest in the aesthetics of film: “. . . Mi 
trovo nelle scure / vie della memoria, nelle stanze / misteriose dove 1’uomo 
fisicamente é@ altro”: an interest that will receive fuller treatment in his future 
essays on semiotics and film theory. 

Rossellini’s film carries the poet back to the dark days of the war. While 
watching the film, Pasolini relives the horror of the Nazi occupation and the 
heroism of the Italian Resistance. The poem’s final lines describe the techniques 
and characters that empower Rossellini’s filmic version of history: 


Quasi emblema, ormai, l’urlo della Magnani, 
sotto le ciocche disordinatamente assolute, 
risuona nelle disperate panoramiche, 
e nelle sue occhiate vive e mute 
si addensa il senso della tragedia. 
E li che si dissolve e si mutila 
il presente, e assorda il canto degli aedi. 
(Poesie 190) 


Here, in a poem written in 1958, Pasolini reveals his attitude regarding the 
evolving relationship of film and poetry. On the screen, the present is being 
shaped by the fictional representation of the past. Magnani’s cry has become an 
emblem. 

The power of these moving pictures, these emblems of communal suffering, 
fortifies Pasolini’s growing realization that the cinema speaks to audiences 
beyond the reach of poetry and that the status of literary culture itself hangs in 
the balance. “The song of the bards” is being deafened by the cinema: “E liche si 
dissolve e mutila / il presente, e assorda il canto degli aedi.” The cinema, as 
portrayed in this poem, has begun to take over the civil responsibilities that 


Postmodernism in Pasolini’s Film Poems 317 


Pasolini had previously assumed to be the province of literature. The cinema 
usurps the vatic powers of the bard as it recreates the past and consequently 
shapes and influences the political attitudes of the present. 

Furthermore, this poem clearly illustrates what Teresa de Lauretis in 
describing Pasolini’s film theory has characterized as his interest in film as a 
discursive practice rather than as an abstract system of signs. In “Proiezione al 
Nuovo di Roma cittd aperta,” Pasolini emphasizes what de Lauretis calls 
“distinct communicative situations, particular conditions of reception, 
enunciation, and address” (44). More importantly, this text gives credence to her 
remarks concerning Pasolini’s interest in the cinema’s power to mold social 
attitudes: 


In light of the developments within semiotics and especially of Eco’s critique of 
iconism, it is interesting to reread Pasolini’s essays on cinema, written in the mid- 
sixties and at the time quickly dismissed as un-semiotic, theoretically 
unsophisticated, or even reactionary. Ironically, from where we now stand, his views 
on the relation of cinema to reality appear to have addressed perhaps the central 
issues of cinematic theory. In particular, his observation that cinematic images 
inscribe reality as representation and his insistence on the “audio-visuality” of 
cinema . . . bear directly on the role that cinema’s imaging has in the production of 
social reality. 

(48-49) 


The cinema’s role in “the production of social reality” is precisely what interests 
Pasolini in “Proiezione al Nuovo di Roma citta aperta.” In describing the film 
audience, the movie theatre itself, the poster, the “epic neorealist landscape,” and 
“the gates of the city of Rossellini,” Pasolini powerfully evokes a significant 
moment of Italian history that he associates with film history as well as with 
his own personal history. 

The connection between Italian history, its filmic representation, and 
Pasolini’s personal history becomes more clear in the following poem. “Chi 
fui?” the poet asks as he continues his meditation on the power of the cinema, 
“Che senso ebbe la mia presenza / in un tempo che questo film rievoca / ormai 
cosi tristemente fuori tempo?” (Poesie 193). In this way, by implicating a 
critical conjuncture between history, filmic representation, and subjectivity, 
Pasolini anticipates what Linda Hutcheon describes as one of the chief concerns 
of postmodernism: “how exactly is it that we come to know the past?” ( 92). 
Hutcheon argues that the postmodernist impulse explores “the way in which 
narratives and images structure how we see ourselves and how we construct our 
notions of self, in the present and in the past” (7). Within this context, 
Pasolini’s “Proiezione al Nuovo di Roma citta aperta” not only points to the 
matrix of theoretical interests that he will develop in the following decades, but 
with its focus on the interpenetration of history, representation, and subjectivity 
this poem also foreshadows the postmodern concern with these very same issues. 


318 John P. Welle 


Furthermore, Pasolini’s film poem communicates a profound anxiety 
regarding the cultural status of the poet as he begins to question the relation 
between poetry, cinema, and other social discourses. Giuliano Manacorda, in 
discussing Pasolini’s poetry from the 1970s together with that of the later 
Montale,? describes the Italian literary environment as follows: 


Gli anni Settanta hanno visto il collasso stilistico di due grandi poeti: Pasolini e 
Montale. Gli ultimi libri di ambedue vivono la vertigine della perdita dello stile. La 
loro grandezza nasce da questa vertigine, da questo disperato spaesamento. La loro 
poesia, improvvisamente cosi poco poetica, priva dei punti fermi della metrica . . . si 
appiattisce sul parlato: vive l’angoscia della caduta della differenza, il panico di 
un’improwvisa confusione di identita. 

(129) 


While the problematics of Italian literary culture in the 1970s are writ large in 
both Montale and Pasolini, as Manacorda points out, it would seem that for 
Pasolini the seeds of this crisis can already be seen in the late 1950s in the poem 
“Proiezione al Nuovo di Roma citta aperta.” The loss of a civic mandate on the 
part of the poet, “‘un’improvvisa confusione d’identita,” to use Manacorda’s 
terms, is evident in Pasolini’s realization that the cinema “assorda il canto degli 
aedi.” Filmic representations of history are simply more alluring than literary 
representations. The audience for poetry has always been a restricted one and, in 
Italy, poets have faced particular problems stemming from the great linguistic 
diversity of the peninsula. It is not surprising therefore, given Pasolini’s interest 
in la questione della lingua and the civic nature of his project, that his Muse 
inevitably seeks an outlet in other forms of cultural expression. 

“[C]essa, la condizione di poeta,” Pasolini states in “Poesia in forma di 
rosa,” “quando il mito degli uomini / decade . . . e altri sono gli strumenti / per 
comunicare con uomini simili . . .” (Poesie 511). The status of literature in 
societies dominated by the mass media underlies Pasolini’s impending shifts 
between poetry, the novel, and film. By describing himself in one poem as 
“Maciste magretto della letteratura” (Poesie 371), Pasolini directs irony towards 
himself as a contemporary “film hero.” Rather than saving young women and 
defeating villains as Maciste did in numerous Italian silent epics in the 1920s 
and 1930s, however, Pasolini must come to the rescue of literature in the 1960s. 
His perception of literature’s loss of its privileged cultural status and his 
expression of that perception through an ironic filmic reference can be related to 
what Schulte-Sasse describes as two of the defining characteristics of 
postmodernism: “postmodern art is obsessed with both the parodic undercutting 
of images and reflections on the institutional status of art in society” (22). 


3 For a penetrating analysis of Montale’s experience of this “identity crisis of the poet,” see 
Luperini. 


Postmodernism in Pasolini’s Film Poems 319 


Pasolini’s reference to himself as “Maciste magretto della letteratura” undercuts 
this important film icon and also points to his questioning of the institutional 
status of literature. In a similar fashion, this ironic reference to the poet/director 
as a “film hero” also anticipates one of the characteristics of postmodernism that 
will later be theorized by Italo Calvino. “Il post-modernism,” Calvino argues, 
“pud essere considerato la tendenza a fare un uso ironico dell’immaginario dei 
mass media” (95). 

Pasolini wrote some forty poems with filmic references from the late 1950s 
until his tragic death in 1975. While Pasolini’s poetry in the 1960s began to 
register the effects of his turn to filmmaking, his films provided him with a new 
outlet in which to reflect on the changing status of literature. As is well known, 
Pasolini’s film work makes use of a wide variety of classical literary texts: from 
the Old Testament, /] vangelo secondo Matteo, the letters of Saint Paul, and J 
fioretti di San Francesco, to Le mille e una notte, from Medea, Edipo re, and the 
Orestiade to the Decameron, I racconti di Canterbury, and I promessi sposi. By 
the same token, poetry and poets abound in Pasolini’s films, screenplays, and 
film treatments. The list of poets woven into the fabric of Pasolini’s film work 
ranges from Dante and Shakespeare to Rimbaud, Ezra Pound, and Allen 
Ginsberg, from Jacopone da Todi to Osip Mandelstam. La rabbia, with its poetic 
commentary written by Pasolini and recited by Giorgio Bassani, constitutes one 
of the most interesting examples to date of a successful combination of film 
documentary and poetry. Furthermore, Pasolini’s poem on Marilyn Monroe in 
La rabbia together with his use of Orson Welles as the “poet-director” in La 
ricotta provide him with further occasions to direct irony toward the cinema and 
the mass media while also parodically undercutting his own persona as lyric 
poet. 

Although we have only examined a few of the many hybrid texts that 
comprise Pasolini’s exploration of the cinematic mode, his ironic genre- 
crossings beckon as a promising source of insight into postmodernism.* The 
transition from modernism to postmodernism, according to Fredric Jameson, 
involves “the erosion of the older distinction between high culture and so-called 


4 In a recent article on Pasolini’s theoretical writings, Bruno argues that many of Pasolini’s 
concems in the 1960s anticipate both later post-structuralist developments and the condition of 
postmodemity. Commenting on the importance of Pasolini for understanding the postmodem 
“end of history,” for example, Bruno writes: “[Pasolini’s] polemics against the cultural logic of 
late capitalism were generally taken as nostalgia for an archaic world. Attacking the leveling of 
conflicts and the superficial unified picture resulting from the ‘industrial puritanism’ of 
consumer society, he called attention to regional cultures and historical peculiarities. Rather 
than a conservative call for traditional values, this interest in geographical and historical 
specificity can today be understood, in the context of postmodemism, as the denunciation of the 
end of history in the postmodem era. . . . Today Pasolini’s call for a discursive reinscription of 
the past, and for the reenactment of historicity in cultural practices seems very contemporary. 
Also current are Pasolini’s intertextual practice and his passion for quotations, which informs 
his writings as well as his cinema, filled by citations and remakes of literary texts . . .” (39). 


320 John P. Welle 


mass or popular culture” (112). Since poetry has traditionally enjoyed high 
cultural status while film has been relegated to the lower spectrum of cultural 
production, Pasolini’s intermingling of these two art forms offers a unique locus 
for charting the tensions or “erosion” between shifting cultural levels, to use 
Jameson’s phrase.> In describing Pasolini as “l’immagine stessa della poesia e 
dell’impossibilita della poesia,” Zanzotto’s characterization of his film/poetry 
dynamics sheds light on the broader significance of Pasolini’s undertaking: 


Pasolini . . . @ stato “poeta al massimo” perché si @ trovato a ripetere quelle 
impossibilita che erano apparse gia ai tempi di Baudelaire. Egli si é trovato di fronte, 
come altri oggi, alla radicalizzazione delle aggregazioni di necessario e impossibile 
che vide tutto un certo Ottocento, da Baudelaire a Rimbaud. Ma Pasolini ci ha dato 
questo nel modo piti complesso e pil “aggiornato”, anche per aver rovesciato tutto il 
problema della poesia sul problema del cinema — e di questo su quello — secondo le 
esigenze del nostro tempo e della nostra realta. Percid il suo discorso @ ancora tutto 
aperto, proiettato sul futuro, interpretabile e reinterpretabile. E lo sara ancora per 
moltissimo tempo. 

(228) 


The origins of Pasolini’s attempt to “rovesciare tutto il problema della poesia 
sul problema del cinema — e di questo su quello” can be seen in his “Proiezione 
al Nuovo di Roma cittad aperta.” Pasolini’s powerful attraction toward this 
film/poetry dynamic, what Williams has called the “cinematic mode,” also finds 
expression in his other film poems, in his famous essay “Il cinema di poesia,” 
and in many other hybrid texts. Moreover, as Zanzotto’s highly intuitive 
remarks suggest, through poetry and through the cinema Pasolini was repeating 
“quelle impossibilita che erano apparse gia ai tempi di Baudelaire.” If, in Walter 
Benjamin’s terms, “to Baudelaire, the lyric poet with a halo is antiquated” (192), 
the twentieth century has done nothing to restore the lustre of that halo. In other 
words, Pasolini’s fear that the cinema “assorda il canto degli aedi,” and his 
description of himself as ““Maciste magretto della letteratura,” may be read as a 
“pill aggiornato” denunciation of the gulf separating the poet from his or her 
desired public, a gulf that was already seen by “un certo Ottocento, da Baudelaire 
a Rimbaud.”® 

Pasolini expresses this problematic “nel modo pit complesso” because he 
uses both poetry and film to question the social identity of the poet. Since 
postmodernism emerges within the framework of and in response to modernism, 
Pasolini’s use of cinema and poetry points to the inevitable continuity and 


5 For an interesting study of Pasolini’s use of the term “cultura,” and his predisposition toward 
high culture, see Barariski. 

For a persuasive analysis of the importance of the symbolist poetic tradition on Pasolini’s 
cinema, see Greene. See also Barariski who discusses Rimbaud as one of Pasolini’s intellectual 
paradigms. 


Postmodernism in Pasolini’s Film Poems 321 


discontinuity between these broad terms of periodic demarcation. “Percid,” to 
conclude with the words of Andrea Zanzotto, “il suo discorso é@ ancora tutto 
aperto, proiettato sul futuro, interpretabile e reinterpretabile. E lo sara ancora per 
moltissimo tempo” (228). 

The University of Notre Dame 


Works Cited 


Barariski, Zygmunt. “Pier Paolo Pasolini: Culture, Croce, Gramsci.” In Culture and 
Conflict in Postwar Italy. Ed. Z. Barafiski and R. Lumley. New York: St. Martins, 
1990. 139-59. 

Benjamin, Walter. J/luminations. Ed. Hannah Arendt. New York: Schocken, 1969. 

Brunetta, Gian Piero. Forma e parola nel cinema. Padova: Liviana, 1970. 

Bruno, Giuliana. “Heresies: The Body of Pasolini’s Semiotics.” Cinema Journal 30.3 
(Spring 1991): 29-42. 

Calvino, Italo. Lezioni americane. Sei proposte per il prossimo millennio. Milano: 
Garzanti, 1988. 

de Lauretis, Teresa. Alice Doesn't: Feminism, Semiotics, Cinema. Bloomington: 
Indiana UP, 1984. 

Golino, Enzo. Pasolini: il sogno di una cosa. Pedagogia, eros, letteratura dal mito del 
popolo alla societa di massa. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1985. 

‘Greene, Naomi. Pier Paolo Pasolini: Cinema as Heresy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1990. 

Hutcheon, Linda. The Politics of Postmodernism. London: Routledge, 1989. 

Jameson, Fredric. “Postmodernism and Consumer Society.” The Anti-Aesthetic: 
Essays on Postmodern Culture. Ed. Hal Foster. Port Townsend: Bay Press, 1983. 
111-25. 

Luperini, Romano. Montale o I’ identita negata. Napoli: Liguori, 1984. 

Manacorda, Giuliano. “Rivista d’attuale poesia.” Nuovi argomenti n.s. 16 (1986): 
129-32. 

Martellini, Luigi, ed. JI dialogo, il potere, la morte. La critica e Pasolini. Bologna: 
Cappelli, 1979. 

Naldini, Nico. Pasolini, una vita. Torino: Einaudi, 1989. 

Pasolini, Pier Paolo. Le poesie. Milano: Garzanti, 1975. 

Rinaldi, Rinaldo. Pier Paolo Pasolini. Milano: Mursia, 1982. 

Santato, Guido. Pier Paolo Pasolini. L’opera. Vicenza: Neri Pozza, 1980. 

Schulte-Sasse, Jochen. “Modernity and Modernism, Postmodernity and 
Postmodernism: Framing the Issue.” Cultural Critique 5 (Winter 1986-87): 5-22. 

Stack, Oswald. Pasolini on Pasolini: Interviews with Oswald Stack. Bloomington: 
Indiana UP, 1969. 

Voza, Pasquale. Tra continuita e diversita: Pasolini e la critica. Storia e antologia. 
Napoli: Liguori, 1990. 

Williams, Raymond. The Sociology of Culture. New York: Schocken Books, 1982. 

Zanzotto, Andrea. “L’avventura della poesia.” Dialogo con Pasolini. Scritti 1957- 
1984. Supplement to Rinascita 51.29 (dicembre 1984): 222-28. 


REVIEWS AND NOTES 
NOTES 


La scrittura femminile. Considerazioni in margine alla lettura di Le 
Stanze ritrovate. Antologia di scrittrici venete dal Quattrocento al 
Novecento. A c. di Antonia Arslan, Adriana Chemello, Gilberto 
Pizzamiglio. Venezia, Eidos, 1991. Pp. 275. 


La forma “antologia” che si venne sviluppando durante il Rinascimento é stata, 
secondo molti critici, estremamente importante nel promuovere la pubblicazione di 
scritti di donne. Non necessariamente riflessione della convinzione dei vari editori che 
ci fosse una intrinseca validita in una scrittura al femminile, una tale inclusione faceva 
apparire la scelta editoriale illuminata e commercialmente interessante, ma (o forse 
sarebbe il caso di dire: perché) in fondo non cambiava niente. Come Nancy Miller ha 
notato sardonicamente, in una ricetta traboccante di nomi maschili, l’aggiunta di un 
elemento dell’altro sesso si disperde tra gli ingredienti principali (“Add a woman and 
stir” 46): presente sulla carta, la donna ha poco peso sulla bilancia.! Occasionalmente 
sono anche apparsi volumi dedicati a sole donne con le immancabili inclusioni di 
Vittoria Colonna, Veronica Gambara e Chiara Matraini, per fare alcuni esempi.2 In 
tempi pid recenti, antologie di scritti femminili sono state pubblicate raramente: tra i 
casi che vengono alla mente, e in ogni modo limitati a una copertura massima di due 
secoli, sono da ricordare il testo della Santoro e quello della Morandini. L’unica altra 
raccolta che viene a cimentarsi con un periodo pit lungo é quella della Costa-Zalessow, 
con tutte le limitazioni dovute alla brevita.> Il volume Le stanze ritrovate, quindi, 
riempie un vuoto e si propone come strumento indispensabile in corsi di letteratura 
sulle donne. 

Quello che a prima vista sorprende di pit in questa antologia é il numero di 
letterate che provengono dal Veneto nel Rinascimento in senso lato, indice vistoso, 
questo, del fatto che Venezia era il centro indiscutibile delle attivita letterarie nel 
Cinquecento e che un numero considerevole di stampatori, editori e librai operava nella 
citta (493 secondo il Grendler su un totale di 1100-1200 in tutta Italia).4 In questo 
senso l’introduzione della Arslan non manca di notare, e lamentare, ]’assenza quasi 
assoluta di scrittura femminile nel Veneto odierno. 


1 Parables and Politics: Feminist Criticism in 1986, “Paragraph”, 8 (1986), 40-53. 

2 Per un’accurata tabulazione rimando a Amedeo Quondam, Petrarchismo mediato. Per una critica 
della forma antologia, Roma, Bulzoni, 1974. 

3 Di Anna Santoro si veda il volume Narratrici italiane dell’ Ottocento, Napoli, Federico & Ardia, 
1987. Della Giuliana Morandini @ La voce che é in lei. Antologia della narrativa femminile 
italiana tra '800 e ’900, Milano, Bompiani, 1980. Della Natalia Costa-Zalessow é Scrittrici 
italiane dal XIII al XIX secolo, Ravenna, Longo, 1982. 

4 Paul F. Grendler, Critics of the Italian World 1530-1560, Madison, U of Wisconsin P, 1969, 
p. 6, n. 7. 


Reviews and Notes 323 


L’antologia presenta le diverse letterate in ordine cronologico cominciando da 
Isotta Nogarola che scrisse in latino agli inizi del quindicesimo secolo e finendo con 
Giovanna Zangrandi, morta nel 1988. Di ogni autrice viene data una lista di 
pubblicazioni, una bibliografia, un’introduzione critica di 2-4 pagine e una scelta di 
opere. L’apparato bibliografico varia quanto mai e certamente sarebbe stato 
interessante vedere riflesso nell’antologia quanto i numerosi contributi americani sul 
soggetto abbiano offerto recentemente. Gli studi di Margaret King sulle umaniste 
Nogarola e Fedele, quelli di Ann Rosalind Jones e Fiora Bassanese sulla Stampa e la 
Franco e quelli di Louise George Clubb sulla Andreini hanno non solo contribuito a 
inserire queste scrittrici nel canone, ma, nel caso della Jones, le hanno anche inquadrate 
in un fenomeno europeo. 

La raccolta offre un’autrice non veneta, Caterina Percoto, i cui motivi per 
l’inclusione mi sfuggono visto che la Percoto non ha mai abitato né pubblicato nel 
Veneto e l’unico legame, mi pare, con la regione é costituito dalla corrispondenza con 
una veneta, anch’essa inclusa nell’antologia, Luigia Codemo. A questo punto, allora, 
perché non includere Laura Cereta, nata a Brescia e suddita di Venezia? Vorrei anche 
mettere in discussione l’esclusione di Elena Cornaro Piscopia di cui si dubita la portata 
letteraria. Sappiamo bene che quel che fa letteratura tende a fluttuare attraverso i secoli 
con i vari movimenti culturali e mi sembra che una donna del Seicento che conosceva il 
greco, il latino, l’ebraico, 1’arabo, il caldaico, l’inglese e naturalmente l’italiano, per 
non parlare delle sue abilita filosofiche e teologiche, vada studiata al di 14 del fatto 
storico che di per sé l’ha resa famosa, il suo essere stata, nel 1678, la prima donna a 
laurearsi nel mondo.» Non é in discussione se la produzione letteraria della Cornara sia 
o non sia consistente; @ tuttavia importante, nel giudicare le ddtte di questo periodo, 
valutare non solo il valore intrinseco delle loro argomentazioni ma anche il fatto che 
esse siano riuscite a farle e, facendole, a essere prese sul serio. Come la Jardine nota, 
qualsiasi commento sulle orazioni delle umaniste, dalla Nogarola alla Fedele alla 
Cereta, non manca di mettere in rilievo la loro eccezionalita. Eppure, a leggerle nel 
contesto di quello che altri umanisti hanno prodotto, esse ci sembrano competenti, ma 
non indimenticabili. Quello che @ eccezionale é che queste orazioni siano state scritte 
da donne in un periodo cosi poco ben disposto verso la donna, e che nonostante le 
limitazioni sociali imposte al sesso femminile, quali l’ingiunzione di non insegnare e 
di non occuparsi di teologia, queste umaniste siano riuscite a salire in cattedra, anche se 
solo occasionalmente. 

E indubbio che questa antologia arriva in un momento di grande interesse in figure 
femminili dimenticate o studiate in contesti “altri”: mi riferisco agli studi della 
Chemello su Moderata Fonte che hanno reso difficile parlare oggi di libri sul 


5 Per un (caldo) invito allo studio della Comaro, rimando a Paul Kristeller, Learned Women of 
Early Modern Europe: Humanism and University Scholars, in Beyond Their Sex: Learned Women 
of the European Past, a c. di Patricia Labalme, New York, New York UP, 1980, in particolare pp. 
98-104. Nello stesso volume Labalme (Women’s Roles in Early Modern Italy: An Exceptional 
Case) parla della singolarita della Cornaro ma manifesta dubbi sul valore artistico dei suoi 
contributi. 

6 “That the woman performs is remarkable; what she performs is not to the point” (Lisa Jardine, 
Women Humanists: Education for What?, in Anthony Grafton and Lisa Jardine, From Humanism 
to the Humanities, Cambridge, Harvard UP, 1986, p. 45, n. 44). 


324 Reviews and Notes 


comportamento senza tenere conto del contributo di questa scrittrice, o alla rilettura di 
Maria Savorgnan condotta della Zancan. Se nel passato |’importanza della Savorgnan 
era pedissequamente assegnata al fatto che essa era stata corrispondente di Bembo, e 
quindi funzionava come elemento per una biografia purtroppo non sua, se, come ci dice 
Giorgio Padoan, il Bembo conservo le lettere non tanto per vanita o per ricordo di una 
passione finita, ma perché esse costituivano “consapevole esempio di una civilta 
amoroso-letteraria degna di essere tramandata ai posteri”, ’ la Zancan mette in chiaro 
che si ballava in due nel carteggio d’amore e che la Savorgnan, pur parlando di elementi 
quotidiani, ben mostrava conoscenze petrarchesche e non mancava di reclamare a sé 
parita intellettuale con il famoso corrispondente. Le introduzioni critiche sono quasi 
sempre dettagliate e ad hoc: citerei come esemplari i saggi della Sartori sulla 
Campiglia, della Zancan sulla Stampa, della Chemello sulla Fonte e della Arslan sulla 
Zangrandi. In alcune introduzioni perd le considerazioni scadono a volta, e 
sorprendentemente, nel personale, come quando si scrive che la Tarabotti era “bellina, 
ma zoppa” (119), la Renier Michiel “di statura inferiore alla media, ma aggraziata” 
(165), la Copio Sullam “bionda, bellissima” (112) e la Teotochi Albrizzi “fascinosa” 
(175). Non siamo molto lontani dalla relazione che il Poliziano fece a Lorenzo de’ 
Medici dopo il suo primo incontro con Cassandra Fedele: “E cosa, Lorenzo, mirabile, 
né meno in vulgare che in latino; discretissima, et meis oculis etiam bella. Partimi 
stupito.”8 Che questi commenti siano fuori posto in un’antologia di scrittori é di per sé 
un’indicazione di quanta strada tutto sommato sia ancora necessario percorrere per 
parlare di letterate qua letterate. Non per niente la Nogarola, in un dialogo su Adamo e 
Eva, si era scusata con il suo interlocutore non tanto di essere donna letterata, "poiché 
questa non é impresa da donnicciola”, quanto di essere donna tout court, “debole e 
modesta”, conscia quindi che l’eloquenza femminile venisse equiparata a mancanza di 
castita. “Nullam eloquentem esse castam” (53), aveva scritto anonimamente (e 
animosamente) Niccolé Barbo accusandola di aver commesso incesto con il fratello.? 
Su una direttiva non troppo diversa, i commenti di Piermario Vescovo su Isabella 
Andreini suggeriscono che questa scrittrice avrebbe fatto bene a parlare poco o a parlare 
meno. In questo senso |’intento del critico mi sembra contrario agli scopi degli editori: 
invece di aumentare interesse per la Andreini, la sua lettura lo fa perdere. Secondo il 
Vescovo, la scrittura di questa letterata sarebbe un insieme di “debolissime prove”, di 
“tributi stereotipi, finzioni calcolate” (86); il suo testo pid interessante, Mirtilla, 
diventerebbe roba da niente quando lo si inserisce in una tradizione che per se stessa 
sembra valere poco (“nel modesto quadro medio della straripante produzione pasiorale 
coeva”, 89). Il Vescovo anche ricicla la solita lamentela che la Andreini non ha scritto 
come donna e, naturalmente, quel che ci avrebbe dato come uomo @ un poco riuscito 
travestimento (“travestendosi alla meglio nei panni d’occasione”, 87). Adesso, 


7] fantasmi di Tancredi, Caltanisetta, Sciascia, 1972, p. 417. 

8 In L Del Lungo, Prose vulgari inedite e poesie latine e greche edite e inedite di Angelo 
Ambrogini Poliziano, Firenze, 1867, p. 81. 

9 Rimando a A. Segarizzi, Niccold Barbo, patrizio veneziano del secolo XV e le accuse contro 
Isotta Nogarola, “Giornale storico della letteratura italiana”, 43 (1904), 39-49. Si veda anche 
Margaret King, The Religious Retreat of Isotta Nogarola (1418-1466): Sexism and Its 
Consequences in the Fifteenth Century, “Signs”, 3 (1978), 807-22. 


Reviews and Notes 325 


mettendo da parte la considerazione, e non mi sembra cosa da poco, che la Andreini sia 
stata la prima donna di successo del teatro italiano, famosa ben al di fuori dei confini 
nazionali, e che sia stata capace di raggiungere questo successo in pochi anni e 
nonostante sette figli e un numero imprecisato di gravidanze, mi sembra che questo 
voler ricercare a tutti i costi uno specifico femminile nella venuta alla scrittura delle 
donne sia un’operazione quanto mai riduttrice. Perché lo scrivere da donna, come 
dimostra la geniale riscrittura dell’io petrarchesco al femminile operata nell’ ambito 
veneziano dalla Stampa e dalla Franco, era un’operazione pericolosa, e non per niente i 
nomi di queste due poetesse sono inevitabilmente accompagnati dalla qualifica di 
“cortigiane oneste”. E anche questo non é bastato, perché solo tre sonetti della Stampa 
furono pubblicati durante la sua vita in un periodo in cui, per citare un esempio a 
contrario, Laura Terracina, un’altra autrice spesso rimproverata di scrivere da uomo, 
ebbe quattordici edizioni dei suoi commenti alle ottave iniziali dell’Orlando furioso. Le 
Rime della Franco videro un percorso editoriale relativamente pit facile perché avevano 
alla base una strategia quanto mai interessante. Come le composizioni in ambito extra- 
veneto della Tullia d’Aragona, le rime furono composte in forma di “capitoli”, cioé 
come risposte a sonetti e canzoni (“proposte’’) di letterati che con le loro tenzoni e lodi 
della scrittrice venivano implicitamente a autorizzare l’appropriazione di un io 
femminile da parte della corrispondente. Quest’io era poi tutto sommato non tanto un 
io specificamente femminile, quanto un io inclassificabile, e quindi non pericoloso: la 
Franco non ha mai negato (o nascosto) la sua professione di cortigiana. In un contesto 
di recupero della scrittura femminile i commenti del Vescovo sono alla stessa stregua 
dei commenti del Magnifico in difesa delle donne in una sezione de JI libro del 
cortegiano. Qui perfino la Emilia Pio, volutamente estranea a un discorso di donne su 
donne, si lamenta a un certo punto della evidente mancanza di energia nel controbattere 
che mostra il difensore ufficiale del suo sesso: "or no intendemo gia in che modo voi ci 
diffendiate”.!9 11 mio punto non é che un libro di scrittrici debba essere un libro in 
difesa di questo genere, ma che non vedo |’importanza di recuperare un’autrice, che, 
caso interessante, ha bisogno meno delle altre di essere recuperata (il suo nome appare 
immancabilmente in tutte le antologie sul teatro in Italia) semplicemente per 
eliminarla. 

Pit specificamente, non credo sia politicamente conveniente categorizzare la 
donna sempre come “altro” perché questa alterita presuppone uno standard di “non 
altro”, di sempre uguale, un punto di riferimento che necessariamente si rivela 
maschile, forte 0 debole secondo le varie mode filosofiche, ma sempre in posizione di 
soggetto e in ambito eterosessuale. In questo senso é@ interessante leggere le scelte 
della Campiglia nel contesto di quello che viene offerto oggi dalla critica femminista. 
Perché, diversamente dalle critiche femministe liberali che discutono sulla eguaglianza 
tra uomo e donna e sui diritti delle donne (ho in mente Mary Wollstonecraft per fare un 
esempio storico e i vari movimenti per la liberazione della donna, mentre in ambito 
rinascimentale prenderei il caso della Marinelli, che opta per la superiorita), 
diversamente dalle critiche femministe socialiste che leggono il lavoro delle donne, 
compreso quello domestico, come produzione, e quindi come avente valore materiale 
implicito (il caso della Kaplan e della Hamilton e in ambiente veneto, mi sembra, della 


10 Baldassare Castiglione, // libro del cortegiano, Milano, Mursia, 1972, 3.17.223. 


326 Reviews and Notes 


Fonte con la sua lunga digressione sul sapere delle donne nel campo delle erbe), e 
diversamente dalle femministe post-strutturaliste che decostruiscono la categoria 
“uomo” e “donna”, spesso usando strumenti psicoanalitici lacaniani e post-freudiani, o 
lasciano spazio all’esperienza per un recupero della soggettivita femminile (il caso 
della Kristeva, della Irigaray, della Cavarero, di molta critica americana recente e, nel 
testo in considerazione, suggerirei il nome della Tarabotti nella sua difesa, per 
esempio, del lusso femminile), la critica femminista radicale (ho in mente qui la Wittig) 
cerca di eliminare la tirannia che l’elemento biologico ha da sempre esercitato sulle 
donne naturalizzandone in un certo senso l’oppressione sociale, culturale e filosofica. 
E cosi non solo la riproduzione viene a essere inficiata di nessi negativi, ma viene 
interrogato il principio stesso dell’eterosessualita come elemento base delle istituzioni 
sociali patriarcali. E questo ci riporta alla Campiglia che ha scelto, a quanto ci racconta 
la Sartori, non solo di negare il valore dell’eterosessualita, ma, sebbene sposata, di 
celebrare la propria verginita, al modo delle mistiche del tardo romano impero e del 
medioevo. Una scelta che aveva precedentemente portato Isotta Nogarola a rifiutare il 
matrimonio e a isolarsi nella sua “libraria cella”. 

Adesso é vero che questo desiderio di non sposarsi e di rimanere vergini é stato a 
volte recuperato dagli uomini — il caso delle umaniste — come dimostrazione che 
queste donne erano diverse dal loro sesso, meno donne o non donne, e che era in nome 
di questa eccezionalita, del loro virilis animus, che meritavano di raggiungere la gloria 
letteraria al pari degli uomini. Cosi, in una famosa lettera alla Fedele, Poliziano si 
meravigliava che una donna possedesse tanta dottrina per poi correggersi subito perché 
quella che lui lodava, aggiungeva, non era una donna, ma una fanciulla, una vergine: 
“Mira profecto fides, tales proficisci a femina (quid autem a femina dico?) imo vero a 
puella, et Virgine potuisse”.!1 La scelta della Campiglia, peré, ha poco a che fare con 
giochi ad hominem perché nel suo caso la liberta sessuale che le viene in un certo senso 
dal matrimonio viene recuperata non come liberta di donarsi (a un altro, dentro o fuori 
l’ambito legale), ma come liberta di non donarsi, di non entrare nel regime di scambio 
che secondo Lévi-Strauss é@ alla base della nostra societa e, implicitamente quindi, della 
risultante oppressione femminile.!2 

Che la biologia abbia avuto un ruolo quanto mai negativo nella vita di queste 
letterate € indubbio: Moderata Fonte @ morta di parto, Isabella Andreini di aborto 
naturale (era alla sua ottava gravidanza) e dubbi rimangono sulle cause della morte di 
Gaspara Stampa. Che le letterate del Rinascimento abbiano visto nel rifiuto della 
sessualita una via d’uscita dalla soggezione femminile é altrettanto indubbio: Corinna 
ne Il merito delle donne della Fonte, appropriando il grido di liberta lanciato 
dall’amazzone Marfisa nell’Orlando furioso, rivendica a sé il diritto al successo 


11 Clarissimae feminae Cassandrae Fidelis Venetae epistolae et orationes, ac. di I. P. 
Tomasinus, Padova, 1636, p. 155. 

12 G. Mantese sembra suggerire che il motivo per cui la Campiglia cosi energicamente 
chiedesse l’annullamento del matrimonio e successivamente rifiutasse anche la possibilita che il 
marito usufruisse della sua dote alla morte, sarebbe da ricercare nell’impotenza di Dionisio 
Colzé. Il matrimonio, in ogni caso, non fu mai annullato e il Colzé rientrd legalmente in 
possesso di una parte della dote alcuni anni dopo la morte della moglie con il consenso dei 
fratelli. Si veda Per un profilo storico della poetessa vicentina Maddalena Campiglia: aggiunte e 
rettifiche, “Archivio veneto”, 81 (1967), 89-123. 


Reviews and Notes 327 


letterario appunto perché, nella sua scelta di verginita, non ha da dipendere dagli 
uomini (“Non servo alcun, né d’altri son che mia,/. . ./ Poiché fallacia d’uom non 
n’interrompe,/ Fama e gloria n’attendo in vita, e in morte” [76]). Analogamente la 
ninfa Flori, nella omonima favola pastorale di Campiglia, celebra il valore della 
maternita mentale: piuttosto che figli, essa ragiona, @ meglio per le donne creare (e 
crearsi) come intellettuali. 

Che un numero cosi rilevante di donne di una sola regione, infine, sia arrivato alla 
scrittura quando, e fino a tempi recenti, sono mancati i mezzi e le scuole per istruirsi 
(secondo il Baldo, nel 1587 solo lo 0,1% delle “putte” aveva accesso all’istruzione a 
Venezia, e certamente le cose andavano meglio in quella citta che nel resto 
dell’Italia),13 dovrebbe farci riflettere su quanto non é a noi arrivato. Sappiamo che la 
Fonte si é istruita seguendo le lezioni assegnate al fratello, stando al racconto dello zio 
Doglioni incluso nel trattato J] merito delle donne pubblicato postumo, e che Angela 
Veronese si autoinsegné l’alfabeto ricalcandolo da fogli messi contro i vetri della 
finestra. Politicamente astuta, Marinelli in La nobilta delle donne non manca di 
indicare esplicitamente nel diniego all’educazione femminile il desiderio maschile di 
mantenere una propria, non si sa quanto minacciata, superiorita: “gli uomini, temendo 
di non perdere la signoria, e divenir servi delle donne, vietano a quelle ben spesso anco 
il saper leggere e scrivere.”!4 E non si dimentichi che & grazie a un’altra veneta, 
anch’essa inclusa nell’antologia, Erminia Fua Fusinato, la quale creé una scuola 
femminile superiore a Roma nel 1874, che 1’educazione femminile riusci a fare un 
enorme passo avanti. Altre donne hanno smesso di scrivere durante il matrimonio, 
come la Cassandra Fedele, o perché mancava il tempo a disposizione, come la Percoto, 
quando dovette assumere la conduzione della sua azienda. Al tempo stesso, sappiamo 
che in famiglie di letterati la venuta alla scrittura delle donne era incoraggiata e 
coltivata: la Nogarola fu educata dai migliori umanisti, la Marinelli fu istruita dal padre, 
famoso medico veneziano, e la Caminer Tura fu indirizzata presto al giornalismo sulla 
scia dei familiari. Sappiamo anche quanto la presenza di altre letterate sia stata 
importante nel processo di crescita artistica. Valga per tutte il caso della Bergalli Gozzi 
che assiduamente frequentava il salotto della pittrice Rosalba Carriera. 

In un celebre saggio sul Rinascimento pubblicato qualche anno fa, Joan Kelly- 
Gadol si chiedeva se le donne avessero avuto anche loro un Rinascimento di cui essere 
orgogliose, in un periodo in cui gli uomini (Pico della Mirandola in testa) erano 
impegnati a affermare la loro soggettivita e genialita.15 Kelly-Gadol concludeva che in 
realta, e nonostante le apparenze, c’era poco da congratularsi perché le nuove leggi 
sembravano restringere nell’ambito borghese, piuttosto che allargare, il territorio di 
competenza femminile. Leggendo quest’antologia di scrittrici venete si arriva a 


13 Alunni, maestri e scuole in Venezia alla fine del XVI secolo, Como, New Press, 1977, p. 12. 
14 Donna e societa nel Seicento: Lucrezia Marinelli e Arcangela Tarabotti, a c. di Ginevra Conti 
Odorisio, Roma, Bulzoni, 1979, p. 120. Secondo Patricia Labalme, la Marinelli scelse di 
femminizzare il suo nome in “Marinella”: Venetian Women on Women: Three Early Modern 
Feminists, “Archivio veneto” 117 (1981), 81-109; rimando a p. 92, n. 32. 

15 Did Women have a Renaisance?, in Women, History, and Theory. The Essays of Joan Kelly, 
Chicago, U of Chicago P, 1984, 19-50. Si veda anche Catherine Belsey, The Subject of Tragedy: 
Identity and Difference in Renaissance Drama, New York, Methuen, 1985, pp. 149-50. 


328 Reviews and Notes 


tutt’altra conclusione perché mai si @ avuta tanta testimonianza di fervore intellettuale 
femminile quanto nel periodo di due secoli che va dalla Nogarola alla Tarabotti. I resto, 
a paragone, é pallida cosa. 

E quindi da auspicarsi che, nel contesto di riscoperta, valutazione e sistemazione 
delle letterate italiane, una raccolta antologica come questa possa servire da invito alla 
lettura per neofiti e da spunto ad altre, pit dettagliate letture da parte di specialisti. Mi 
permetto di corredare |’apparato bibliografico, di per sé sostanziale, che il libro offre, 
di una bibliografia di scritti su scrittrici venete pubblicati recentemente negli Stati 
Uniti. 


Adler Sara, Veronica Franco's “Terze Rime” : Subverting the Master's Plan, “Italica” 65 
(1988), 211-33. 

Bassanese Fiora, Gaspara Stampa, Boston, Twayne, 1982. 

, Gaspara Stampa's Poetics of Negativity, “Italica” 61 (1984), 335-46. 

, Private Lives and Public Lies: Texts by Courtesans of the Italian Renaissance, 
“Texas Studies in Literature and Language” 30 (1988), 339-53. 

, What's in a Name? Self-Naming and Renaissance Women Poets, “Annali 
d’Italianistica” 7 (1989), 105-15. 

Collina Beatrice, Moderata Fonte e “Il merito delle donne”, “Annalid’Italianistica” 7 
(1989), 142-64. 

Clubb Louise George, Jtalian Drama in Shakespeare's Time, New Haven, Yale UP, 
1989. 

Holm Janice, The Myth of a Feminist Humanism, “Soundings” 68 (1984), 443-52. 

Jardine Lisa, Women Humanists: Education for What?, in Anthony Grafton & Lisa 
Jardine, From Humanism to the Humanities, Cambridge, Harvard UP, 1986, 29-57. 

Jones Ann Rosalind, Assimilation with a Difference: Renaissance Women Poets and 
Literary Influences, “Yale French Studies” 62 (1981), 135-53. 

, City Women and Their Audiences: Louise Labé and Veronica Franco, in 
Rewriting the Renaissance. The Discourses of Sexual Difference in Early Modern 
Europe, ac. di Margaret Ferguson, Maureen Quilligan e Nancy Vickers, Chicago, U 
of Chicago P, 1986, 299-316. 

, The Currency of Eros: Women's Love Lyrics in Europe, 1540-1620, 
Bloomington, Indiana UP, 1990. 

, New Songs for the Swallow: Ovid's Philomela in Tullia d'Aragona and 
Gaspara Stampa, in Refiguring Woman. Perspectives on Gender in the Italian 
Renaissance, a c. di Marilyn Migiel e Juliana Schiesari, Ithaca, Cornell UP, 1991, 
263-77. 

, Surprising Fame: Renaissance Gender Ideologies and Women's Lyric, in The 
Poetics of Gender, a c. di Nancy Miller, New York, Columbia UP, 1986, 74-95. 
Jordan Constance, Renaissance Feminism. Literary Texts and Political Context, 

Ithaca, Cornell UP, 1990. 

King Margaret, Book-Lined Cells: Women and Humanism in the Early Italian 
Renaissance, in Patricia Labalme, Beyond Their Sex 66-90. 

, The Religious Retreat of Isotta Nogarola (1418-1466): Sexism and Its 
Consequences in the Fifteenth Century, “Signs” 3 (1978), 807-22. 

, Thwarted Ambitions: Six Learned Women of the Italian Renaissance, 
“Soundings” 59 (1976), 280-304. 





Reviews and Notes 329 


King Margaret and Albert Rabil, a c. di, Her Immaculate Hand: Selected Works by and 
about the Women Humanists of Quattrocento Italy, Binghampton, Center for 
Medieval and Early Renaissance Studies, 1983. 

Kristeller Paul, Learned Women of Early Modern Italy: Humanists and University 
Scholars, in Beyond Their Sex 91-116. 

Labalme Patricia, a c. di, Beyond Their Sex: Learned Women of the European Past, New 
York, New York UP, 1980. 

, Women's Roles in Early Modern Venice: An Exceptional Case, in Beyond 
Their Sex 129-52. 

Lipking Lawrence, “Could I Be Like Her?” The Example of Women Alone, in Lawrence 
Lipking, Abandoned Women and Poetic Tradition, Chicago, U of Chicago P, 
1988. 

Malpezzi Price Paola, A Woman's Discourse in the Italian Renaissance: Moderata 
Fonte’s “Il merito delle donne” , “Annali d’Italianistica” 7 (1989), 165-81. 

Niccoli Gabriel, Eros and the Art of Self-Promotion in Veronica Franco's “Terze Rime” , 
in IRSA, ac. di Jean Brink and Pier Raimondo Baldini, River Forest, Rosary 
College, 1989, 53-62. 

Phillippy Patricia, Gaspara Stampa’s “Rime”: Replication and Retraction, 
“Philosophical Quarterly” 68 (1989), 1-23. 

Rosenthal Margaret, A Courtesan's Voice: Epistolary Self-Portraiture in Veronica 
Franco's “Terze Rime”, in Writing the Female Voice: Essays on Epistolary 
Literature, a c. di Elizabeth Goldsmith, Boston, Northeastern UP, 1989, 3-24. 

, Veronica Franco's “Terze Rime”: The Venetian Courtesan's Defense, 
“Renaissance Quarterly” 42 (1989), 227-57. 

Schiesari Juliana, Appropriating the Work of Women's Mourning: The Legacy of 
Renaissance Melancholia, in Working Papers for the Center of Twentieth Century 
Studies, U of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 1990. 1-25. 

, [he Gendering of Melancholia: Feminism, Psychoanalysis and the Symbolics 
of Loss in Renaissance Literature, Ithaca, Cornell UP (in corso di stampa). 
, In Praise of Virtuous Women? For a Genealogy of Gender Morals in 
Renaissance Italy, “Annali d’Italianistica” 7 (1989), 66-87. 

Vitiello Justin, Gaspara Stampa: The Ambiguities of Martyrdom, “Moder Language 
Notes” 90 (1975), 58-71. 

Warnke Frank, Gaspara Stampa: Aphrodite's Priestess, Love’s Martyr, in Women 
Writers of the Renaissance and Reformation, a c. di Katia Wilson, Athens, U of 
Georgia P, 1987, 3-21. 

ac. di, Three Women Poets: Renaissance and Baroque: Louise Labé, Gaspara 
Stampa, and Sor Juan Ines de la Cruz, Lewisburg, Bucknell UP, 1987. 

Wilson, Katia, a c. di, An Encyclopedia of Continental Women Writers, New York, 
Garland, 1991. 

Zancan Marina, L’ intellettualita femminile nel primo cinquecento: Maria Savorgnan e 
Gaspara Stampa, “Annali d’Italianistica” 7 (1989), 42-65. 








Valeria Finucci, Duke University 


330 Reviews and Notes 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 


Edited with the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, 
Albert N. Mancini, Gustavo Costa, Valeria Finucci, and John P. 
Welle 


Renato Rosselli. Dizionario guida alla scelta dei sinonimi e dei 
contrari. Firenze: Sandron, 1989. Pp. 1439 + XXIII. 


In a delightful review of the new Dizionario italiano ragionato, Raffaele Simone 
observes that, inasmuch as the dictionary he is reviewing has sold more than fifty 
thousand copies in two years, “di vocabolari ce n’é sempre bisogno” (Simone, 1990). 
Proof of the veracity of Simone’s words is a brief outline of dictionaries that have 
appeared in Italy in the past twenty years. In addition to the nine dictionaries of 
Italian language proper (some of which sold more than three hundred thousand copies 
in one year), Italy’s voracious appetite for dictionaries prompted the appearance of 
three tomes of legal terminology (one in French, one in Russian, and one in 
English), two frequency dictionaries, two English-Italian dictionaries of business and 
economics, two dictionaries of Italian words of English derivation, one each of 
politics, neologisms, science and technology, philosophy, information science, 
photography, sports, sociology, psychoanalysis, economics, and medicine. 
Considering that my list is by no means exhaustive, this is not too bad for a country 
of Italy’s size! 

We should then not be surprised that editor Remo Sandron has commissioned 
Renato Rosselli to prepare this new dictionary of synonyms and antonyms that, after 
ten years of preparation, has seen the light under the tutelage and with a preface of 
Francesco Sabatini, professor of History of the Italian Language at the University of 
Rome, and president of the Italian Society of Linguistics. Sabatini’s point of view is 
the same held by the father of Italian lexicography, Tommaseo; namely, that true 
synonyms really do not exist; in the presenter’s words, the dictionary’s purpose will 
be that of bringing the old master's dictionary up to date, using a different 
lexicographical technique, and reflecting another Sprachgefiihl. The present 
dictionary has, therefore, eliminated all international scientific vocabulary words, 
that, by their very nature, do not allow any approximation. It indicates parts of 
speech, etymology, labels, synonyms and antonyms and is, in fact, very similar to 
any other general dictionary, with the difference that, as Sabatini puts it, there runs 
through the dictionary “the red thread of semantic relations that tie one word to 
another.” 

The Guida is accompanied by a list of linguistic terminology, which, if one 
wished to be hyper-critical, could be condemned for not being integrated with other 
similar entries within the body of the dictionary. In the matter of dictionaries, 
however, one should always remember Dr. Johnson’s warnings that “the humble 


Reviews and Notes 331 


drudge” can only avoid reproach, without ever aspiring to praise, and that one should 
be very frugal in criticizing fellow lexicographers.Whether this Guida may compare, 
as Sabatini affirms (vil), with the French Petit Robert, in which one goes from “des 
mots que vous connaissez, a tous les autres par |’analogie,” is open to contention, 
since there are some inconsistencies that blemish this dictionary. To give but one 
example, we need to look only at the entry ancora: it is shown avy. (adverb) and its 
derivation from O.F. encore is added. We then find three main meanings: 1. a) The 
repetition of an action as in “lo vedrdé ancora domani.” The synonyms “di nuovo” and 
“nuovamente” are indicated. b) The continuation of an action either in the past, 
present, or future, as in the examples “stava ancora lavorando,” “c’é ancora 
abbastanza luce,” and “piovera ancora domani?” The synonyms are “sempre” and 
“tuttora.” 2. It may also indicate a temporal deadline such as: a) in the present “ancora 
non é venuto,” with the synonyms “fino a questo momento,” or “finora.” b) In the 
past as in “Ancora non avevo preso una decisione.” The synonyms are “fino ad 
allora” and “fino a quel momento.” 3. It may finally have a copulative function such 
as in “Gli dissi ancora di non farlo (“Again and again I told him not to do it”). 
Synonyms are “anche,” “inoltre,” and “pure.” When, however, we look for “di nuovo” 
that we expect to find under “nuovo,” this adverbial expression is absent. When we 
look for “finora,” the entry is absent and under “pure” we do not find a cross-reference 
to “ancora.” 

Looking for an example under verbs, “astrologare” shows the synonym 
“divinare,” but the latter fails to be cross-referenced to “astrologare”; the same occurs 
with “indovinare,” which is shown as a synonym of “astrologare” but does not refer 
to “indovinare”; a similar lack of cross-referencing happens with 
“predire,” “pronosticare,” and “vaticinare.” 

One final example could be drawn from the noun “entrata,” (4.), which has as 
synonyms, “reddito,” “rendita,” and “utile”; while “‘rendita” is cross-referenced to 
“entrata,” “reddito” and “utile” fail to mention “entrata” as a synonym. Probably 
because automobile and airplane terminology does not lend itself to synonyms, most 
references to such conveyances are avoided. The user should, however, be informed 
that many of these terms apply to more than one item; “cofano” is not only a box, or 
a chest, but is also the car’s hood. 

A dictionary should be a mirror of society, and if changes occur in the usage of 
words that, once upon a time, might have offended the purchaser, these changes 
should be reported. The Dizionario guida is, on the other hand, affected by a strange 
prudery that does not seem to follow a logical pattern. Some of the words that used to 
be considered vulgar, describing either the sexual act or scatological functions, are 
present, and the user is warned by the label “volg.”; such is the case with “coglione,” 
“culo,” “pene,” and “vulva”; it is not clear, on the other hand, why ‘‘cazzo” is not 
entered, especially since the interjection “Che cazzo!” is hardly considered vulgar any 
more, and may simply be labeled colloquial. The same observation could be extended 
to the word “minchione,” which is entered in the dictionary while “minchia” is not; 
anyone who has seen the recent film “Cinema Paradiso” may testify that this 
interjection is part and parcel of everyday language. It is equally baffling to fathom 
why the dictionary mentions “fottere” and not “chiavare,” a verb that is just as vulgar 
and has approximately the same frequency. 

Another strange feature of the dictionary is that of leaning heavily toward the 


332 Reviews and Notes 


Tuscan usage, which is suggested by the fact that “tosc.” is the only dialectal label 
mentioned among abbreviations. It is even more striking to witness the presenter as 
being extremely proud of the author’s Tuscan credentials; it seems bizarre, at the very 
end of the eighties, to witness a scholar of the caliber of Sabatini extolling the 
virtues of this dictionary because of “il suo fervido, non occultabile amore per la 
favella toscana” (Ix). These words could have been uttered in the sixties, when the 
Tuscan-leaning tendency, epitomized by the DOP, was still popular; nowadays, after 
Nora Galli de’ Paratesi’s studies, this seems to be no longer the leading theory in 
modern Italy. 

An entire new generation of dictionaries on disc is now being prepared and is 
already invading the Italian market (Ferraris). It may well be that, in a couple of 
years, dictionaries such as that of Rosselli’s will be obsolete, and will be replaced by 
“electronic dictionaries” that will be updated every six months, and will keep the user 
informed of all changes in the language. 

Robert C. Melzi, Widener University 


Bibliography 


Abbagnano, Nicola. Dizionario di filosofia. Torino: UTET, 1971. 

Antola, M, L. Mezzalira, and R. Negrini, N. Scarabattolo. Dizionario di informatica. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1985. 

Bartolini, U., C. Tagliavini, and A. Zampolli. Lessico di frequenza della lingua 
italiana (LIF). Milano: IBM Italia, 1971; Milano: Garzanti, 1972. 

Bobbio, Norberto, Nicola Matteucci, and Gianfranco Pasquino. Dizionario di 
politica. Torino: UTET, 1983. 

Calvenzi, Giovanna, Fabrizio Celentano, and Paolo Lazzarin. Dizionario della 
fotografia: 2035 termini spiegati ed illustrati. Roma: Ciapanna, 1984. 

Cortelazzo, Manlio, and Ugo Cardinale. Dizionario di parole nuove. 1964-1984. 
Torino: Loescher, 1986. 

Dardano, Maurizio. Nuovissimo dizionario della lingua italiana. 1st ed. Roma: 
Curcio, 1982; 2nd ed. Bologna: Thema, 1990. 

De Felice, Emidio, and Aldo Duro. Dizionario della lingua e della civilta italiana 
contemporanea. Palermo: Palumbo, 1975. 

De Franchis, Francesco. Dizionario giuridico inglese-italiano. Milano: Giuffré,1984. 

de’ Paratesi, Nora Galli. “Opinioni linguistiche e prestigio delle principali varieta 
regionali di italiano.” Jtaliano d’oggi. Trieste: Lint, 1977. 

. Lingua romana in bocca ambrosiana. Bologna: il Mulino, 1988. 

Dizionario enciclopedico scientifico e tecnico inglese-italiano,italiano-inglese. AA. 
VV. Bologna: McGraw Hill-Zanichelli, 1980. 

Dogliotti, Miro, and Luigi Rosiello. Jl nuovo Zingarelli. Vocabolario della lingua 
italiana di Nocola Zingarelli. Bologna, Zanichelli, 1983. 

Enrile, Eugenio. Dizionario dello sport. Roma: Edizioni Paoline, 1977. 

Ferraris, Maria. “Lessicografia e editoria elettronica.” Lettera dall’ Italia 20 (Oct.-Dec. 
1990): 58. 

Gallino, Luciano. Dizionario di sociologia. Torino: UTET, 1978. 

Gianni, Angeli, et al. Dizionario italiano ragionato (DIR). Firenze: D’ Anna-Sintesi, 





Reviews and Notes 333 


1988. 

Juilland, A., and V. Traversa. Frequency Dictionary of Italian Words (FDIW). The 
Hague: Mouton, 1973. 

Laplanche, Jean, and J. B. Pontalia. Enciclopedia della psicanalisi. Bari: Laterza, 
1974. 

Migliorini, Bruno, Carlo Tagliavini, and Pietro Fiorelli. Dizionario di ortografia e di 
pronuncia (DOP). Roma: ERI, 1969. 

Napolitano, Tomaso. Vocabolario giuridico russo-italiano. Milano: Giuffré,1981. 

Palazzi, Fernando. Novissimo dizionario della lingua italiana. New ed. Gianfranco 
Folena. Milano: Fabbri, 1974. 

Picchi, Fernando. Economics & Business: Dizionario enciclopedico e commerciale 
inglese-italiano, italiano-inglese. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1986. 

Premoli, Palmiro. Vocabolario nomenclatore illustrato. Milan: Soc. Ed. Aldo 
Manuzio, 1909-12. Reprint 2 vols. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1989. 

Ragazzini, G., and G. Gagliardelli. Dizionario commerciale inglese-italiano, 
italiano-inglese. Milano: Mursia, 1984. 

Rando, Gaetano. Dizionario degli anglicismi nell'italiano postunitario. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1987. 

Ricossa, Sergio. Dizionario di economia. Torino: UTET, 1982. 

Sciarone, A. G. Vocabolario fondamentale della lingua italiana (VFI). Bergamo: 
Minerva italica, 1977. 

R. S. (Raffaele Simone). “Tl Dizionario italiano ragionato.” Lettera dall'Italia 18.5 
(1990): 56-57. 

Schmid, Bona. Words. Firenze: Sansoni, 1989. 

Tommaseo, N., B. Bellini. Dizionario della lingua italiana. Repr. of the 1865-1869 
ed. Milano: Rizzoli, 1977. 

Tortora, Giovanni. Dizionario giuridico italiano-francese, francese-italiano. Milano: 
Giuffré, 1982. 

Valente, Renato, and Maria Germana Malesani. Dizionario medico Larousse. Torino: 
S.A.LE., 1984. 


Mario Santoro. II libro a stampa. I primordi. Napoli: Liguori, 
1990. Pp. 410. 


A distanza di dieci anni esce di nuovo questo manuale che |’autore ha aggiornato nella 
parte bibliografica ed ha ampliato con ben undici nuovi contributi sull’argomento. La 
prima edizione aveva avuto un buon successo, recensita anche su alcune riviste 
americane, e quindi @ sembrato pit’ che opportuno ripresentare questa utile antologia 
di scritti di vari autori attinenti la storia del libro. Come spiega l’autore nella 
premessa alla prima edizione, qui riportata, il libro si divide in tre sezioni che 
abbracciano tre argomenti diversi. 

La prima parte di carattere generale affronta il problema del libro a stampa in tutti 
i suoi aspetti dalla produzione alla distribuzione. Qui si trovano brani dei pit grandi 
studiosi di bibliologia, autori di testi oramai classici: basti citare la Eisenstein, 
Hirsch, Steinberg, Martin e Fevre ecc. e tra gli italiani i decani di questa scienza cioé 


334 Reviews and Notes 


Balsamo e Frattarolo. Questa sezione inizia con un contributo del Santoro stesso 
intitolato “Prolegomeni alla ‘storia del libro’”, in cui vengono presentati alcuni nodi 
problematici di una sociologia del libro nella catena produzione-fruizione e 
sfruttamento del mezzo mediatico da parte del potere, e finisce con alcune pagine 
dall’influente, anche se orami molto datato, libro del McLuhan sulla Galassia 
Gutenberg, che fra l’altro é citato diverse volte dal Santoro stesso. Il quale comunque 
discute con grande cautela alcune conclusioni troppo acuminate dello studioso 
canadese, riaggiustando il tiro dell’argomentazione in base alle nuove acquisizioni 
della bibliologia. Ciononostante resta in Santoro, e si veda la conclusione 
dell’introduzione, una vena di “‘apocalitticismo” per usare un termine-idea coniato 
qualche decennio fa da Eco. Cioé che i mezzi di comunicazione di massa siano 
controllati da un potere occulto che domina le menti dei consumatori. Si fa credo 
confusione quando si omologano il libro e la stampa: vale a dire il concreto e 
l’astratto. La rivoluzione tecnologica @ un fenomeno interessantissimo e lo si deve 
studiare in tutti i suoi particolari anche ad arrivare nelle sfere dell’ideologie; la storia 
del libro invece si colloca nella concretezza direi vivente delia lettura. Si vedano 
allora le pagine molto stimolanti del libro dello Chartier, Letture e lettori nella 
Francia di antico Regime pubblicato da Einaudi nel 1988 stranamente non citato dal 
Santoro, in cui si mettono in discussione la differenziabilita di cultura alta e cultura 
popolare, e l’immediato effetto che la parola pud avere sul pubblico. Cito da pag. XII: 
“Pensare le pratiche culturali in termini di appropriazioni differenziate significa 
anche non soprawvalutare l’efficacia di testi, parole e gesti che tentano di plasmare il 
modo di pensare e i comportamenti della gran parte della popolazione”. Ritengo che 
si dovrebbe procedere su questa linea un po’ pil! morbida di quella del Santoro, per non 
restare in vaghe formule di sociologismo difficilmente verificabili. 

La seconda parte del volume (“I primordi della stampa in Europa e nel Nuovo 
Mondo”) raccoglie diversi saggi di studiosi stranieri (Dahl, Moran, McMutrie, ecc.) 
che tracciano la storia della nascita della stampa in Germania, Francia, Olanda, 
Spagna e Portogallo, Inghilterra, Europa orientale, Nuovo Mondo (cioé Messico) e 
Stati Uniti. E una panoramica molto esaustiva specialmente per il pubblico italiano 
che non trova tradotti questi testi antologizzati. Santoro ha fatto un lavoro molto 
pregevole nello scegliere e adattare con tagli i vari brani in modo tale che dessero 
un’informazione quanto pit’ completa sul soggetto. Nel leggere queste pagine si 
ripercorre l’avventurosa storia della stampa, fatta spesso di curiosi accadimenti come 
ad esempio quello narrato dal McMutrie della nascita della stampa in Citta del Messico 
dovuta al presunto prototipografo Juan Pablos di origine bresciana. Questa seconda 
parte chiarisce meglio il titolo del volume: infatti per ‘primordi’ il Santoro ha inteso 
giustamente non solo quella zona della bibliologia che divide la storia del libro in 
incunaboli e no, ma anche |’impianto in una area geografica delle prime tipografie. 
Nell’introduzione il Santoro discute con molta attenzione questo problema della 
definizione del libro pre-1500 e di quanto sia artificiale questa divisione. Poi riporta 
comunque nel corpo del volume alcuni brani molto chiari e pertinenti (ad esempio il 
saggio di Frattarolo nella prima parte) di come si caratterizzi un incunabolo rispetto 
ad una cinquecentina. E chiaro che una disciplina, nello studio concreto dei suoi 
oggetti, tenda a stabilire dei parametri, passibili di essere messi in discussione. 
Santoro conosce molto bene le difficolta inerenti all’uso del parametro ‘incunabolo’, 
e pur mettendo in evidenza le sue caratteristiche bibliologiche, avverte 1] lettore come 


Reviews and Notes 335 


la definizione di questo parametro @ sempre meno rigida. 

La parte di gran lunga pil interessante credo che sia la terza per due motivi: é la 
sezione pil specialistica e contiene saggi dei pil importanti studiosi italiani (anche 
se non si trova nulla di Petrucci, che perd é citato nell’introduzione del Santoro), 
porta alla luce del grande pubblico la storia locale della stampa, ricchissima di fatti, 
che normalmente si pud leggere soltanto in riviste specializzate. Qui sono da 
apprezzare soprattutto la serieta e l’erudizione degli studiosi italiani che possono 
competere agli stessi livelli della bibliologia anglosassone e francese. E senza 
entrare nel merito dei vari saggi che sono di grande utilita e ottima qualita, mi preme 
qui fare una considerazione generalisima. Circola in Italia ancora una specie di 
maledizione sugli studi che mostrino un po’ d’erudizione. Se si fa il confronto tra gli 
studi di bibliologia inglese ed americana, studi alla luce del sole ed apprezzatissimi, 
con quelli italiani, che invece solo negli ultimi anni stanno timidamente uscendo dal 
giro degli specialisti, e grazie al Santoro al Petrucci al Cavallo, ecc., si deve 
veramente apprezzare lo sforzo dei nostri studiosi di non aver ceduto e di aver 
prodotto ottimi risultati dalle loro ricerche. La bibliologia, pur avendo i suoi 
strumenti autonomi, come ha giustamente sottolineato il Santoro nella sua 
introduzione, apporta un notevole contributo a varie altre discipline come la storia, la 
letteratura, la sociologia, la storia della scienza, ecc. Non si deve quindi trascurare la 
bibliologia, essendo il libro appunto il mezzo di diffusione del sapere pit: importante 
e pil stabile da diversi secoli (e lo continuera ad essere, d’accordo con il nostro 
autore). Non si pud quindi prescindere da questa disciplina, specialmente nel campo di 
cui mi occupo, la letteratura italiana e quella del tardo cinquecento in particolare. In 
questo ambito affascinanti contributi hanno dato ad esempio Amedeo Quondam e 
Paolo Trovato. Ci vorrebbe ora un’équipe di studiosi che affrontasse 1’impresa di 
preparare una serie di volumi come quelli, preziosi e importanti, curati da Martin, 
Chartier e Vivet per la Histoire de I’ édition frangaise. 

Per tali motivi credo che il volume del Santoro sia, a parte la lieve pecca di 
sociologismo che mi sembra circoli nei suoi interventi, di grande utilita: la sua 
chiarezza e completezza ne fanno uno strumento indispensabile per affrontare la 
problematica della storia del libro in tutti i suoi aspetti. E concludendo mi preme 
menzionare la lunga /ntroduzione del Santoro che in brevi tratti precisi e incisivi 
traccia la storia della nascita del libro, usufruendo con acume della vasta bibliografia 
sull’argomento. A questo proposito si deve apprezzare il vasto apparato 
bibliografico, aggiornato in questa seconda edizione, che testimonia non solo della 
conoscenza profonda della letteratura scientifica sulla storia del libro, ma anche la 
passione e la cura del Santoro verso questo prodotto indispensabile della nostra 
cultura. 

Emilio Speciale, The University of Chicago 


Rosetta D’Angelo. Il poemetto dell’intelligenza. Urbino: Edizioni 
quattroventi, 1990. Pp. 110. 


L' intelligenza, a didactic poem consisting of approximately three hundred stanzas of 
nona rima, written sometime between the end of the Duecento and the beginning of the 


336 Reviews and Notes 


Trecento, is the subject of this critical study which has as its general aim the 
stimulation of renewed interest in this work and a greater appreciation for its 
importance within the history of Italian literature. The approach to the subject is 
comprehensive in scope. Chapter I (7-36) includes a discussion of the poem’s dating, 
attribution, manuscript tradition, title, as well as a sketch of the historical 
development of the idea of Eternal Wisdom (Sapienza) from the Egyptians to the Late 
Middle Ages. With regard to authorship, the traditional attribution to Dino Compagni 
is rejected on the basis of both stylistic and ideological analyses of Compagni’s works 
in relation to L’intelligenza. Chapter II (37-65) gives an overview of the poem’s 
contents as well as discussions of the /apidari tradition together with an analysis of the 
lapidari in the poem, the description of Madonna Intelligenza’s palace and the 
historical sketches represented on the walls of the palace’s concestorio. Chapter III 
(67-90) discusses the allegorical framework for the poem, especially the 
transformation of Madonna Intelligenza into an allegorical figure for Eterna Sapienza, 
as well as the poem’s influence on Francesco da Barberino’s Reggimento e costumi di 
donna and on Dante. Chapter IV (91-102) consists of a stylistic appreciation of the 
strophes dedicated to the Fatti di Cesare, a description of the poetic figures employed 
(dittologia, hyperbaton, anacoluthon, assonance, dissonance) as well as a sampling of 
Provengal, Sicilian, Guittonian and Stilnovistic derivations to be found in the poem. 

The parts of the study dedicated to discussions of the medieval traditions regarding 
Sapienza, as well as those treating the /apidari tradition, and the figure of the castle or 
palace are of general interest as synthetic overviews of these various traditions. 
Valuable bibliographic indications are included. The most engaging portion of the 
book for many readers will be those pages of Chapter III (70-81; 83-89) dedicated to 
the connection with Dante. The author’s thesis is that the transformation of Madonna 
Intelligenza into Divine Wisdom goes beyond troubadour and Stilnovistic conceptions 
and prepares the way for Dante’s idealization of Beatrice in the Convivio and the 
Commedia. The poem’s allegorical identification of Madonna Intelligenza with Divine 
Intelligence and Eternal Wisdom as described in the Old Testament is more advanced 
than Guinizzelli’s conception, since instead of an analogy between God who 
illuminates the angels and the woman who illuminates the poet, L’intelligenza 
presents woman as “la personificazione dell’Eterna Sapienza, misura di tutto” (79). 
Given the suggestiveness of the parallels between Dante and the author of 
L’ intelligenza, one might have hoped for fuller discussion of the implications of the 
critical accostamento of the two. 

But beyond the desire for fuller development of the connection between Dante and 
L’intelligenza, and occasional difficulties due to the study’s somewhat rhapsodic 
organization, /l poemetto dell’ intelligenza succeeds well in its primary intention of 
stimulating a renewed interest in this relatively forgotten poem (but see also the 
studies of M. Ciccuto regarding L’intelligenza often cited in this work, especially [1 
restauro de L’intelligenza e altri studi dugenteschi (Pisa: Giardini Editore, 1985). 


Theodore J. Cachey Jr., The University of Notre Dame 


Reviews and Notes 337 


Robert Pogue Harrison. The Body of Beatrice. Baltimore: The Johns 
Hopkins UP, 1988. 


In the critical introduction to The Body of Beatrice, Robert Harrison takes issue with 
Charles S. Singleton’s and Domenico De Robertis’ reading of the Vita nuova. The 
former imposes an “alien” theological structure upon the work, while the latter, as a 
result of an over-preoccupation with philology, looses sight of the visionary 
impulse of Dante’s text. In an attempt to overcome limitations of this variety, 
Harrison’s major critical concern becomes that of avoiding the “hermeneutic trap of 
Dantology”. The trap was established by Dante himself who embedded interpretative 
guidelines in his works. As far as the Vita nuova is concerned, the only way to 
overcome the critical traps is that of positing a minimum of importance on authorial 
intent and privileging instead any hermeneutic strategy that aims to disclose the 
profounder crevices in which “the work takes on a new life of its own: a new life 
independent of the canonized author” (IX). 

The “deeper crevices” that Harrison speaks about are the Joci in the Vita nuova 
that make manifest the essential aspects of the libello: namely, that the book relates 
an account which deals with what is at stake in literary alternatives (poetry/prose, 
lyric/narrative). Indeed, Harrison dedicates much exegetical energy in arguing that for 
Dante what is at stake is a rapport with temporality and the impossibility of 
imposing a closure upon it. Moreover, the Vita nuova allows the critical eye to 
envision the manner in which both the lyric and narrative modes seek to transcend 
temporal closure. In fact, while alive, Beatrice incarnated transcendence in the 
miraculous nature of her person. But in the aftermath of her death and disappearance 
Dante’s lyric voice enters a phase of crisis and blockage that brings about a revision 
of past history. Dante’s libello concludes with a projection that envisions a future 
supratemporal closure of the new life. At the same time, however, the narrative stasis 
rests in a state of suspension while the author negotiates with the future. 

Harrison speculates that there is present in the Vita nuova a “meantime 
temporality” which engages the condition of human temporality at its most essential 
level. In other terms, the libello indicates the extent to which this same temporality 
both underlies and nurtures the hypothetical projection toward a final end. The 
prophetic mode which nourishes Dante’s mature work has as a pre-condition this 
ecstatic temporality, namely, a temporality that seeks, but fails to find, closure. For 
this very reason Harrison suggests that the Vita nuova explores the pre-conditions of 
both Dante’s lyric past and his epic future. In essence, the provisional “meantime” to 
which governs the aesthetic movement of the Vita nuova permits the work to present 
itself as demystifier of the poetic impulse that fosters both the epic and lyric 
alternatives. That is to say, “it reveals the nostalgic nature of this impulse as well as 
the dreams of salvation to which it gives rise” (166). 

Along with the lucidity and concision of Harrison’s critical logic, a central 
feature of The Body of Beatrice rests in the fact that the author offers a convincing 
reading of Dante in what I would term a post-theological mode. That is to say, in a 
manner that rests outside the heavily forested domain of the North American variety 
of Dante studies which places a distorted emphasis upon theological orthodoxy. 


338 Reviews and Notes 


Harrison’s approach is very much indebted to the Heidegger of Being and Time. But 
Harrison’s analysis of the aesthetic ramifications of temporality in Dante’s libello 
clearly indicates an organic appropriation of Heidegger’s thought, rather than mere 
dependence upon it. 

Paul Colilli, Laurentian Univevrsity, Canada 


Robin Kirkpatrick. Dante’s Inferno: Difficulty and Dead Poetry. 
Cambridge Studies in Medieval Literature 1. Cambridge: Cambridge 
UP, 1987. 


Although in Dante scholarship it sometimes seems that there is nothing new under 
the sun, Kirkpatrick’s book can truly claim to approach the /nferno from a new 
perspective: he sees it as a work which Dante “might have been ashamed of having 
written” (432). While analyzing each canto in sequence, Kirkpatrick simultaneously 
argues a unified reading of the cantica; this in itself is a welcome variation on the 
necessarily discontinuous interpretations of the multi-authored lectura Dantis format. 
Kirkpatrick’s reading derives from a regrouping of the cantos as follows: 1-5 (“action 
and order”), 6-11 (“history, nature, and philosophy”), 12-16 (“narrative, myth and 
the individual”), 17-23 (“comedy and identity”), 24-27 (“signs in transition and the 
pathos of order”), and 28-33 (“endings, tragic and comic”; vii). These titles suggest 
some of Kirkpatrick’s concerns in reading the /nferno, information we might 
otherwise be tempted to seek in the critical apparatus — which is virtually, and 
deliberately, non-existent in this book. Without footnotes, index, or a serious 
bibliography, Kirkpatrick’s book seems determined to challenge both the procedures 
of Dante criticism and its traditional privileging of the /nferno over the other two 
cantiche. 

Kirkpatrick states his global reading of the /nferno thus: “When I speak of 
difficulty...my purpose is to strike a somewhat polemical note, and to call in question 


a prevailing view of the character of Dante’s poem. . . . I shall argue that the 
philosophical positions which Dante develops in the Commedia involve a far greater 
measure of internal tension than is commonly supposed. . . . in the end, the Jnferno is 


a work of which Dante seems to be ashamed” (xi-xii). If the /nferno is “difficult” to 
this extent, it is so in favor of other parts of his oeuvre which Kirkpatrick privileges: 
“The desire for free and simple utterance was the heartfelt motive of his earlier poetry; 
in writing a narrative as many-voiced as the Inferno, the poet has put in jeopardy, or 
even risked betraying, the origin and end of that authentic aspiration. . . . certain 
cantos of the Paradiso . . . show how Dante’s thinking on questions of justice and 
love . . . emphasize the instability of the intellectual system that he constructs in the 
Inferno. ...The Vita nuova is, poetically, the origin that Dante seeks in the 
Purgatorio and Paradiso, as he draws closer to Beatrice. It is also the origin which in 
the Inferno he increasingly betrays” (432-33). I quote at such length in order not to 
caricature Kirkpatrick’s position, which is in fact subtler than these “reader’s guides” 
may suggest. 

I find this reading compelling and suggestive, if ultimately unpersuasive. The 
“regrettable lapse” thesis is problematic in that it adopts the position of the 


Reviews and Notes 339 


historical author (assuming we could get to him) who assesses his work as wholly his 
own creation. Kirkpatrick speaks of Inferno as Dante’s linguistic and poetic 
construction only, rather than as figuring a “part” (or dimension, or category) of 
God’s creation. He implies that we can disregard Dante’s insistence on the literal truth 
of his journey in evaluating this poem. But I doubt that Dante would regret his writing 
of the Inferno; it is not an unfortunate episode of his own, but a regrettable 
component of a world he purports to represent rather than to create. To invoke the 
Vita nuova as emblematic of the kind of writing Dante “really” valorizes, is idle; it 
both dispossesses the Inferno of the truth-value the poet claims for it, and discounts 
its necessity as a part of the world beyond death. After all, if Dante’s narrative is 
putatively plurivocal, it is still underwritten by a single transcendent Word; he might 
well prefer that we had recourse to that Word before attempting to discern his (ethical 
and aesthetic) judgment on the /nferno as a strictly human product. 

One important move Kirkpatrick makes, on which his ultimate judgment of 
Dante's judgment of this cantica depends, is to insist on the “difficult cases” the 
pilgrim meets as puppets of the poet, rather than as figures to whom the poet would 
like to attribute some responsibility — both for their lives and for their slanted 
narration of them. Kirkpatrick constantly questions whether the most vividly (and 
subtly) drawn characters — Francesca, Pier Della Vigna, Ulysses, Ugolino — are 
aware of the manipulativeness of their rhetorical strategies (88, 183, 342, 417; xii). 
We should not, of course, try to psychoanalyze these creations as though they were 
autonomous entities, but we should analyze them and their rhetoric in light of the fact 
that their author has declared them autonomous. We acknowledge, of course, that their 
words (and suppressions) are all Dante’s own; but we must take into account the 
"fiction . . . that his fiction is not a fiction,” in Singleton’s words. In this context I 
believe that Dante would consider these sinners incorrigible, aware of their sin but 
still trying to soften it with noble language. 

In bypassing the internal constraints Dante claims for his poem, then, 
Kirkpatrick aligns himself with the author, who alone can evaluate his work without 
reference to its inscribed pretenses. I find this an utterly fascinating move, but the 
results it yields are unverifiable. Kirkpatrick’s argument is solidly constructed and 
elegantly worded; but the /nferno has a necessity in Dante’s schema which precludes 
its being an unfortunate lapse in Dante’s writerly itinerary. I suspect that many 
readers of Dante will agree. 

Dantisti, in fact, may be dismayed more by Kirkpatrick’s iconoclastic stance 
toward scholarly convention, than toward the Inferno. He justifies his decision to 
dispense with traditional citations thus: “If the literary texts we read are to be 
considered in any sense as ‘open, then critical texts, too, must admit their own 
openness, and willingly abdicate authority. And this . . . may explain why I have 
made no use of footnotes or endnotes in this volume” (XIV-XV). He also makes a very 
modest claim for his book’s status: “the present work is not a scholarly volume; it 
does not pretend to challenge or advance any particular school of thought, but seeks 
rather to serve as one reading among many that are possible, as an actor might 
perform Othello or a pianist the Wanderer Fantasy” (XV). 

But in fact the book’s articulation — seeming to have sprung mature from the 
head of Zeus — would actually disprove this claim to critical neutrality: to write a 
book on Dante without citing specifics of Dante scholarship is a very clear position 


340 Reviews and Notes 


statement, and far from neutral. 

Kirkpatrick seems to intend to remove the obtrusive presence of the critical 
tradition, which would add an unwanted fourth to the ideal company of text, critic, and 
reader (xiv). Ironically, his attempt (as I presume) to liberate both Comedy and reader 
from the great barrier reef of Dante scholarship which separates them, itself turns into 
an obstacle as daunting to the novice reader as to the expert. To take a minor 
example: as the author reviews the positions from which we can assess the poet’s 
stance on Ulysses, he refers to “the familiar escape whereby Dante’s religious 
obligation to condemn Ulysses is taken to be at odds with his human sympathies” 
(325). Now, the novice reader will never, from this book, be able to gather which 
writers Kirkpatrick indicates with the word “familiar” (328; it turns out to be “the 
Romantics,” a rather outmoded group with whom to polemicize. This closes a door 
summarily on her desire to learn the field. The more advanced reader will also, I 
suspect, snort at orphaned references to outdated opponents. Both groups will find 
this procedure distracting, and it will probably backfire. 

Like it or not, we cannot carry on a dialogue with Dante’s text: it and we come to 
the encounter accompanied by a host of other people and their readings, assumptions, 
and desires. Dialogue turns instantly into conference, and honesty compels us to 
name those other interlocutors, as conscientiously as their sheer number will allow 
— both to guide our readers, and to graciously acknowledge what we have gained from 
other Dantists. Kirkpatrick, who describes his own tonality as “somewhat polemical” 
(xi), still declines to identify and cite those with whom he will polemicize, treating 
them instead as an undifferentiated mass with a “prevailing view” (xi). Still less does 
he invoke those Dante scholars with whom he agrees, and who have influenced him. 
This leads to an astonishing number of vague attributions in the passive voice, 
making the prose too often fuzzy and unwieldy. In addition, the lack of an index or 
bibliography will certainly make the book itself more difficult to use, just as the lack 
of citations will not help the reader gain access to the field at large. 

While I found the thesis problematic and the format difficult, however, this book 
is a most valuable commentary to own and consult. Kirkpatrick both delivers 
splendid insights into single moments of the Jnferno, and posits new connections to 
the rest of the Comedy. Whether or not a reader ultimately agrees with Kirkpatrick, 
this book will amply reward the time spent on it. 

Regina Psaki, University of Oregon 


L'idea deforme: interpretazioni esoteriche di Dante. Ed. Maria Pia 
Pozzato. Bompiani: Milano, 1989. 


L’ idea deforme: interpretazioni esoteriche di Dante is an outgrowth of Umberto Eco’s 
research into the limits of interpretation, and the direct result of a course he offered at 
the University of Bologna on semiosi ermetica. The book consists of a presentation 
and analysis of six esoteric interpreters of Dante from the early 19th century to the 
1950s: the carbonaro Gabriele Rossetti, Eugene Aroux, Giovanni Pascoli, Luigi 
Valli, Rodolfo Benini, and René Guénon. The articles are united by a common 
semiotic approach and framed by an introduction by Eco, a preface by Maria Pia 


Reviews and Notes 341 


Pozzato, the volume’s editor, and, at the end, an essay by Regina Psaki, a conclusion 
by Pozzato, and a postface by Alberto Asor Rosa. The result is a kind of intellectual 
tag-team wrestling match in which each critic tackles the amorphous question of what 
is hermeneutically illegitimate in an age when we are no longer able to believe in 
what Asor Rosa calls “la verita del testo.” Could it be that someone has composed a 
book on semiotics and Dante that can be described as fun to read and even, at 
moments, delightful? 

The semioticians identify in the six very diverse Dantists a typical procedural 
pattern and a common way of structuring their rhetoric. They compare this 
methodology to the characteristics named in Thomas Kuhn’s work on the history of 
science as necessary to the creation of scientific consensus (specifically, here: 
coherence, exhaustivity, and simplicity). Each of the esoteric thinkers claims to have 
arrived at their occult interpretation through a legitimate scientific inquiry that gave 
way suddenly to a revelation of truth. Eco generalizes as “paranoid” the tendency of 
the six arguments to embrace a syndrome of the secret and of the conspiracy. The 
bella menzogna of the Divine Comedy consists for these men in a secret key or arcane 
jargon known only to initiates. For example, the title itself, L’idea deforme, is an 
ingenious anagram (repeatedly credited to Stefano Bartezzaghi) of “Fedeli d’Amore,” 
the sect of Templars posited by the fascist Luigi Valli as the clan of initiates for 
whom Dante wrote. For Valli, Dante’s poetic lexicon is composed of code words 
referring to mysterious and elusive Masonic symbols; for Aroux, these same words 
convey a heretical diatribe, and for Rossetti they are a secret Ghibelline language. 

For all these thinkers, in the Divine Comedy there is a single central secret that, 
once revealed, will explain all the poem’s anomalies: Rossetti uncovers a 
nationalistic conspiracy; Aroux, a plot against the Church. Pascoli’s plot is formal 
rather than political: a perfectly harmonious proportionality lies hidden below the 
superficial discrepancies in the poem’s design. The mathematician Benini finds 
marvelous numerological repetitions of 666 and 515 that underlie Dante’s 
composition. In all these approaches, the central secret comes to dominate the poem 
itself, such that Dante’s incredible polysemia gets crushed into a single motif that 
repeats and repeats and repeats. It is also typical that this motif seems in each case to 
be a fun-house mirror reflection of the critic himself: Benini’s Dante is a 
mathematician centuries ahead of his time; for Rossetti he is an exiled revolutionist, 
etc. 

Particularly fascinating are the conspiracy readings, best demonstrated in the 
case of René Guénon. For Guénon, hidden in Dante’s poetry are allegorical arrows 
pointing to an ancient knowledge that the rest of us have lost. But though the poetry 
speaks of and points to this occult cosmic secret, the secret itself can never be 
revealed, because (as Pozzato observes about mystical reasoning) only what cannot 
be expressed can be true. Therefore, in Eco’s words, “In the temptation to discover an 
ultimate and unapproachable meaning, we accept an unstoppable slipping of 
meaning” (14). A single jargon word such as Beatrice can mean an unlimited number 
of things, often opposite to each other (for such is the strategy of concealment). All 
these writers are afflicted by logorrhea, the attempt to persuade through sheer volume 
of words, and they all portray themselves as persecuted seekers appealing to the 
reader (at times rather bullying the reader) to make a leap of faith toward their 
position. 


342 Reviews and Notes 


The pleasure and strength of this book comes not from heaping critical abuse on 
easy targets (a comforting exercise in a day when no one is right and all are equally 
wrong), but rather in the sense of the fragility and provisorial quality of what we 
regard as scientific truth. We are forced to grant the internal coherence of each of 
these diverse readings. After all, as Regina Psaki notes, it is these misguided and self- 
deceiving souls who opposed the absolutism of Croce’s poesia-non poesia duality 
and who opened the door to the allegorical and theological readings of the Divine 
Comedy that are indispensable today. 

In measuring themselves against the “excessive” readers of Dante, Eco’s 
semioticians are fundamentally challenging their own presuppositions. While we can 
laugh at unfounded and outlandish inventions such as Dante as member of a 
clandestine sect of Templars, as in Guénon, or at the dictionary of Dantean code words 
invented by Aroux, can we say that such semiotic notions as destinatario, lettore 
modello, and neutro semantico are scientifically concrete concepts, or rather, also, 
leaps of faith? What makes L’idea deforme compelling and urgent is our own sense of 
being off the mark. In a time when all measures of literary value have at least 
theoretically fallen, in a time when in Dante studies it is common to find research on 
what is not in the work as a source of meaning, or on the logorhythmic relations in 
the verse, or studies that give predominance to tiny possible ailusions to minor 
theologians while ignoring large, obvious structures; in a time, more generally, 
when public language seems completely turned inside out and abstracted from reality, 
the semiotician’s job seems ever more desperate and crucial. 

Thomas Simpson, The University of Chicago 


Konrad Eisenbichler and Amilcare A. Iannucci, eds. Petrarch's 
Triumphs: Allegory and Spectacle. U of Toronto Italian Studies, 4. 
Toronto: Dovehouse Editions, 1990. Pp. xv + 420. 


In the (unwritten) story of Petrarch's fortune, the Triumphs have a crucial and 
paradoxical place. They were the most popular of his works during the Renaissance, 
but subsequently fell into a neglect from which they have not yet recovered. The 
neglect has not been as thorough as for some of the Latin works, for example the De 
remediis (enormously popular during the late Middle Ages); nevertheless, the contrast 
with the Rime is striking. It is not clear how we should read the Triumphs so as to 
understand them and to take pleasure in them as a whole. The papers collected in this 
volume, from a conference held at the University of Toronto in May 1987, 
investigate reading the Triumphs from various disciplinary and methodological 
approaches, and with various degrees of directness. What results is a valuable and 
stimulating book. 

The papers are organized according to two main poles of interest in the 
Triumphs: what the poem might mean in itself, and its influence in the Renaissance. 
The papers of the first two sections address the question of meaning, concerning 
respectively the intertextuality of the Triumphs and the functioning of allegory and 
rhetoric in the poem. Section three examines the relationship between the Triumphs 
and the figurative arts; section four addresses translations and imitations; and the 


Reviews and Notes 343 


final group of papers studies the reality of social spectacle in the Renaissance. An 
introductory essay prefaces each section and helps synthesize the diverse insights 
found there. 

The literary models of Petrarch's poem are numerous, so there is considerable 
scope for intertextual study. Richard C. Monti shows that Ovid's Amores 1.2 is the 
primary classical source for the first two Triumphi, namely, Cupidinis and Pudicitie. 
However, he claims that the use of Aeneid 6 adds a serious, epic dimension to the 
elegiac heritage. Aldo S. Bernardo compares three triumphs by the Three Crowns: the 
procession in Purgatorio 29-33, Boccaccio's Amorosa visione, and Petrarch's work. 
He concludes that the general movement of the Triumphs is the most positive of the 
three, affirming the value of the outstanding individual. Sandro Sticca finds the 
Triumphs profoundly influenced by medieval dramatic processions, both in its visual 
narrative pattern and in its moral and allegorical character. The paper by Zygmunt G. 
Baranski, regarding Petrarch’s poem as a “supremely metaliterary text” (65), 
considers that its characteristic tension comes from the effort to harmonize Christian 
ideology with classical form. 

The tradition of allegorical interpretation is a presence which haunts several of 
the papers in the second section. As W. H. Herendeen points out in his introductory 
essay, allegory can not simply be dismissed, although it is a tradition which has 
obscured the poem’s real indeterminacy. Paul Piehler pursues this paradox, arguing 
that the Triumphs themselves are “‘anti-allegory.” More precisely, the poem must be 
read simultaneously with two opposed conceptual systems: one traditionally 
allegorical, linear, essential; and one anti-allegorical, non-linear, existential, 
deconstructive. Sara Sturm-Maddox casts fresh light on the intertextual relationships 
between the Rime and the Triumphs, pointing out important differences in the 
treatment of Laura, the laurel, and the narrator himself. Paul Colilli brings in another 
central Petrarchan text, the Africa, to concentrate on it for an explicitly 
“grammatological” reading of Scipio’s triumph. In a more formalist approach, 
Massimo Verdicchio studies the rhetoric of enumeration in the Triumphs, yet also 
reaches a conclusion concerning the poem’s radical indeterminacy. In contrast to 
medieval practice, Petrarchan enumeration no longer functions synecdochally; it 
calls attention to itself and so disrupts traditional epistemological claims of 
language. Gabriele Erasmi too is interested in enumeration, yet he emphasizes its 
strategic placement in the poem, as well as its emotional effects. In this section, 
which ought to be the most important, one wishes for more attention to the anomaly 
of the Triumphus Eternitatis. 

The papers on the figurative arts range from surveys of relevant iconography to 
readings of particular works. Jens T. Wollesen studies the relationship between text 
and image in the early Trecento, and finds that Petrarch and Dante too share some of 
the problems of representation (the use of typology, allegory, antiquity) found in 
their artistic contemporaries. Esther Nyholm surveys the evolution of 
representations of the Petrarchan triumph in the Quattrocento, while Sara Charney 
concentrates on the Triumphus Famae and the pattern set for it by illustrated editions 
of De viris illustribus. Thomas Martone finds in Piero della Francesca’s “Triumphs of 
the Duke and Duchess of Urbino” an encapsulation of “the spectrum of Petrarchan 
triumphs” (222). 

The papers of the section on literary influence are mostly studies of Petrarch’s 


344 Reviews and Notes 


fortune in individual countries. The exception is Gian Carlo Alessio’s paper on the 
interpretive tradition of the Triumphs in the Quattrocento. Among the noteworthy 
characteristics of the commentaries are: relatively little interest in the allegorical, 
didactic, or formal aspects of the poem, along with considerable attention to its 
classical elements. As for Petrarch abroad, Spain is the country best served by the 
papers at hand. Giovanni Caravaggi displaces the entry of Petrarchism into Spain 
from the canonical date of 1526 in his examination of the thorough influence of the 
Triumphus Cupidinis on the Marquis of Santillana’s Triumphete de Amor, which dates 
from the mid-fifteenth century. Anne J. Cruz finds in three sixteenth-century Spanish 
translations of the Triumphs the evolution of the Castilian literary vernacular. In 
England, Lord Morley’s translation is the main point of interest. Kenneth R. Bartlett 
argues that the translator’s choice to publish the poem and his rededication of it to 
Lord Maltravers show his approval of an abortive plot to marry Maltravers to then- 
Princess Elizabeth. Following this mystery story, a badly edited paper by Eva 
Kushner presents the Triumphs as the background for a type of poem, the list of 
illustrious poets, practiced in France by Ronsard, Du Bellay, and Pontus de Tyard. 

As regards the “spectacle of society”, after an excellent introductory essay by 
Marguerite Waller, there is one highly theoretical paper followed by treatments of 
specific processionai practices in Italy, England and France. Domenico Pietropaolo 
seeks a propaedeutic for a purely formal reading of triumphs/processions. Asking 
what the constant is which makes a procession a procession, he concludes that it is 
the order of the elements. This can be formalized through the method of topology. 
After this stimulating, dense and too brief effort at abstraction, the other papers can 
be read as illustrations, although sometimes only loosely linked to the Petrarchan 
text. Quattrocento Florence is Konrad Eisenbichler’s subject, while Enrico Vicentini 
is concerned with Venice, and more particularly with the processional tableaux 
vivants called soleri. The changing face of English civil ceremony is studied by 
Alexandra F. Johnston, and finally Victor E. Graham surveys the Triumphs and 
triumphs in sixteenth-century France, particularly Henry II’s entry into Rouen in 
1550. 

There is some editorial sloppiness in this volume, as in an occasional 
inconsistency of endnote form, and one paper where Latin verse is presented in prose. 
The reproductions of artworks are not always the clearest. But it is on the whole an 
attractive book. Preceding the foreword and each of the five sections there are plates 
showing six triumphs, from the 1515 Venice edition. If the book is thus (in a limited 
sense) structured like its subject, we should not be surprised to find in both a great 
richness, some surprises, as well as some frustrated hopes. 

Stephen Murphy, Wake Forest University 


Karla Taylor. Chaucer Reads The Divine Comedy. Stanford: U of 
Stanford P, 1989. Pp. 289. 


Readers of the latest issue of Annali d’italianistica (8. 1990), devoted to modern 
American Dante criticism, may have noted R. A. Shoaf’s rejection of Karla Taylor’s 
attempt in Chaucer Reads The Divine Comedy “‘to erect” Chaucer as the “‘anti-Dante” 


Reviews and Notes 345 


(384). In Taylor’s configuration of Chaucer, Shoaf sees American iconoclasm, 
pragmatic idealism, and resistance to Euro-centrism, and the possible influences of 
Existentialism and feminism. 

Although such nationalist reflections and cultural influences are not self-evident 
in Taylor’s book, Shoaf’s characterization of Taylor’s Geoffrey Chaucer as a creation 
or construction is accurate. Chaucer Reads The Divine Comedy pursues the energetic 
and innovative mode of post-modern literary criticism, which so displaces authority 
from the author and the text onto the critic that it might be termed, quite benignly, 
“designer criticism.” All criticism, theory says, is fundamentally by design, for one 
cannot but have designs on the works one reads, and the challenge therefore is to 
sustain “rigor” or “power” while working from a subjective stance. The post-modern 
critic designs or redesigns a subject, reorganizes literary texts accordingly, assumes 
or “brackets” away contexts, and presents critical constructs as a personal narrative. 
The result displays a critic’s personal sophistication in a current style of ideas and 
methods and draws its authority from the current markets of discourse: that is, as a 
commodity that appeals as much to desire as to reason. Annali d’italianistica itself 
testifies that designer criticism is much of what is today published, and so also testify 
these and other works by Taylor and Shoaf. Such criticism’s deep roots in 
subjectivity, furthermore, and the multiplicity and diversity of schools of 
postmodern thought, make disagreement inevitable 

Taylor’s is essentially a reconstructive reading of Dante and a deconstructive 
reading of Chaucer, and by this combination “she organizes her argument,” as Shoaf 
accurately puts it, “as a diptych or binarism” (385) in order to argue that Chaucer 
progressively opposes, criticizes, breaks with, and ultimately deposes Dante’s entire 
project. From The Divine Comedy Taylor draws passages here and there: the creation 
of the Eagle in Paradiso 18, the Terrace of Pride in Purgatorio 10-12, the story of 
Paolo and Francesca in Inferno 5, the Ulysses account in /nferno 26, and others; but 
her analysis of Chaucer moves from The House of Fame to and through, generally but 
progressively, the five books of Troilus and Criseyde. She assumes that Dante and 
Chaucer are each identical with their respective narrators in the same way: that is, that 
author and narrator are the same person under different aspects; she assumes that 
Dante gave Chaucer his bookish narrator; and she assumes that the Christian view of 
the world, language, and art are optional for both authors, and for all readers. In light 
of such assumptions, which she frankly states, she probes all selections of text 
minutely, reasons closely and sometimes speculatively, and addresses the reader in 
the first-person. Throughout, as she reports in a note (259), she subsumes all “‘under 
the model of Chaucer, Poet of the Secular World.” 

Her particular focus, she reminds us (6), is on what used to be called “narrative 
point of view,” an interest so typically modern that one is not surprised to find listed 
in the bibliography of references, although not quoted in the text, Henry James, 
Percy Lubbock, and Wayne Booth. More particularly, her subject is the linguistic and 
rhetorical means by which Dante and Chaucer achieve narrative authenticity: that is, 
how they elicit or undermine their audience’s assent to their respective narrative 
voices, to their fictions, and to the reality to which their fictions point. In the first 
chapter she distinguishes between Dante’s deistically founded and Chaucer’s 
humanistically based authentication (without using these binary adjectives) and 
argues that in writing The House of Fame, Chaucer learns how to undermine Dante’s 


346 Reviews and Notes 


truth-claims and subsequently uses what he has learned as he “makes narrative 
authentication a major issue in the Troilus” (48). Chapter 2 initiates the inquiry into 
the Troilus, presenting a collage of arguments to the effect that Dante’s Commedia, 
like Boccaccio’s JI Filostrato, is a subtext of the Troilus in that Chaucer’s plot echoes 
both the Paolo and Francesca story and the Dido and Aeneas account. Through such 
devices as borrowings, parallels, and transpositions of Dantean material, including 
the use of Dante’s words in Troilus’s speech, Chaucer sets the Troilus against the 
Commedia regarding matters of love, history, and love literature, thereby rendering 
the Commedia Troilus’s galeotto. “Dante indeed intends his poem as just such a 
galeotto, guiding his readers to the Empyrean, yet Troilus’s Dantean words subvert 
Dante’s purpose. Troilus’s idealism is admirable, but it fails. And in this failure, 
Chaucer illustrates the dangers Dante’s poem might hold for readers who, like Troilus, 
do not share Dante’s conversion” (76). 

Chapter 3 concentrates on the narrators themselves. Through manipulations of 
verb tenses, similes, acrostics, commentary, narrative distancing, and the like, 
Dante’s narrator tells the history and experience of his moral and literary fall and his 
subsequent conversion in the Commedia. Using the same or similar devices, 
Chaucer’s narrator works against Dante’s authentications by destroying the division 
between objectivity and subjectivity and destroying narrative and historical 
authenticity itself. The two remaining chapters then pit Chaucer against Dante 
regarding the authenticity of the world to which the two fictions point. Dante’s 
similes and analogical language point to a world created and governed by God, 
revealed by God through scripture, history, and nature, and expressed by God’s Word 
through the words of the poet. Dante’s narrator, furthermore, convincingly 
transcends the limits of that world, treasures up his knowledge and experience in his 
memory, and returns to his poetic self to give us an authentic account of a spiritual 
reality. Working off Dante, Chaucer’s proverbs and conventional love language 
reveal such Dantesque confidence as a deception, a product of desire mixed with 
confused experience and faulty understanding, and again a danger to one who does not 
share Dante’s conversion. Thus Chaucer ends the Troilus by destroying the 
authentication of his own poem and withdrawing himself from fiction in general to 
the extent of avoiding, out of compassion for the unstable beauties of the secular 
world, poetry that attempts to deal with final things. Thus is Chaucer the Poet of the 
Secular World. 

The most rewarding contribution of this laborious, energetic and innovative (and 
rather tedious to read) book is Taylor’s analysis of the strategies of narrative 
authenticity in Dante and Chaucer taken separately. Although most of the relevant 
passages in each work have been analyzed time and again, Taylor has collocated them 
in suggestive juxtapositions and analyzed them with provocative originality. 
Applications of linguistic and rhetorical strategies of authentication expose 
numerous ambiguities and equivocations and add significantly to the study of 
Chaucer’s and Dante’s personae. The general progress of the critical analysis is not 
free from strained maneuvers, faint logic, and large conclusions drawn from minute 
particulars, but these occur mainly, although not always, in attempts to argue 
instances in which Chaucer’s Troilus intertextually negates Dante’s Commedia. Some 
examples of such unconvincing attempts are the pairing of Chaucer’s Criseyde with 
Dante’s Francesca through the intermediary of Dido, to whom Troilus is also linked, 


Reviews and Notes 347 


while Criseyde is also linked to Aeneas (65-67, 74); reading a series of widely 
scattered similes involving sticks, reeds, trees, and vines as adaptations of, or 
allusions to, a single proverb (158-61); declaring that Troilus’s transcendence to the 
eighth sphere after his death parallels Dante’s ascendence in the Paradiso (187); 
rationalizing that Chaucer’s repudiating the world and simultaneously pointing to 
heaven is a weaker condemnation than Boccaccio’s simple repudiation of the world 
(when naming the world’s alternative would seem to strengthen rather than weaken 
contemptus mundi, 190); and interpreting the eagle in Criseyde’s dream as an 
“ominous portent” that undermines the sincerity of her decision to fall in love with 
Troilus (even though conventionally, one does not decide to fall in love, dreams are 
not decisions, and falling truly in love is indeed an “ominous portent” 194-95). By 
and large, however, Taylor’s analysis of these two works, each taken in itself, is 
acute and sensitive and cognizant of an impressive range of relevant primary material 
and secondary scholarship. 

Taylor’s thesis, however, that Chaucer’s objective is to undermine Dante’s, thus 
rendering the Troilus, in effect, a secular galeotto to the reader, elicits serious 
reservations, if not, as it did for Shoaf, rejection. Her assumption that Chaucer and 
Dante are each in the same way identical with their narrators is astonishing in that 
Chaucer is a satirist and Dante is not, and that unlike Dante’s, Chaucer’s works are 
prolific in the use of ironic double vision. That Chaucer got his bookish narrator 
from Dante is questionable, for such a narrator is visible in The Book of the Duchess, 
which Taylor acknowledges shows no familiarity with Dante (20). The faintly argued 
assertion (187) that the journey of Troilus’s soul after death is “at least partially 
parallel to Dante’s flight” in the Paradiso (191) is to insert a particle of one narrative 
into the enormous complexity of another in order to draw large conclusions. That 
Chaucer, in effect, favors secularism as a medieval option to Christianity, and views 
Dante, in effect, as belonging to a kind of dangerous cult, betrays the anachronistic 
modernity of Taylor’s Chaucerian model. 

Taylor’s thesis, in fact, is founded on elementary illogic; it violates the 
principle that terms from two different orders cannot be in contradiction. Dante’s 
Commedia is encompassed entirely within the complexities of a divinely ordained 
and governed universe, while the Troilus works through the universe of humanistic, 
even pagan, understanding. To borrow language and rhetorical figures from one 
universe of thought in order to use them in another does not render those elements 
self-contradictory. Chaucer, and students of rhetoric as well as logic, would know 
this, but in only one brief passage, concerning the use of proverbs as an 
authenticating device, does Taylor herself finally, and indirectly, acknowledge the 
problem that is bothersome from almost the outset of her case: “To the extent that 
Chaucer’s ironic proverbs expose the false claims of a pagan world, they affirm the 
superiority of the Christian world; and indeed Chaucer ends his poem with a Dantean 
prayer to the Trinity and Mary” (173). But she immediately dismisses this one 
sentence statement by adding five more sentences, before dropping the idea entirely, 
to remind us, circularly in effect, that Chaucer’s is an unstable humanistic world and 
not Dante’s stable world of divine affirmation, which is precisely the problem of 
illogic in Taylor’s thesis. 

Such circularity undermines the rigor of Taylor’s entire reader-response effort. 
Her title, Chaucer Reads The Divine Comedy, suggests two designs to be articulated: 


348 Reviews and Notes 


Chaucer’s and Dante’s. In actuality, she articulates three: Chaucer’s, Dante’s, and her 
own. Herself using authenticating techniques, such as expressions of personal 
conviction or doubt, Taylor reads Chaucer according to her own desire, which is to 
maintain that Chaucer reads Dante according to his own desire, and that Chaucer wrote 
a work that makes his reader read according to the reader’s own desire, and Taylor is 
such a reader, who therefore reads Chaucer according to her own desire. .. . 

Contrary to Taylor’s intention, the overall result of her criticism lends credence 
to Shoaf’s insistence that “Chaucer like Dante was a Christian and a Christian also 
possessed of a profoundly discriminatory imagination” (393). Her criticism also adds 
credence to C. S. Lewis’s time-honored demonstration, which is one of Taylor’s 
points of departure, that Chaucer “medievalized” Boccaccio’s II Filostrato (57). Much 
of Taylor’s analysis, furthermore, if Chaucer is viewed as Satirist rather than as 
simply Poet of the Secular World, could support the view that Chaucer rejects 
Boccaccio’s humanism, and Petrarch’s with it, and for that matter the humanism 
already burgeoning as Italy moved toward the Renaissance, just as in The House of 
Fame he rejects the impending Renaissance’s resurrection of classical Fame as a 
stable ground of valid humanistic immortality. After all, in that earlier work (HF 
1873-82) and in the Troilus (V.1793-99), Chaucer places his poetic calling not in the 
unstable desire of the reader but in the relative stability of the text, which is founded 
upon the uncircumscribed and all-circumscribing Word. In other words, Taylor’s 
analysis could be redesigned to support a view opposite to hers, that Chaucer’s 
Troilus does not oppose Dante but instead follows in Dante’s footsteps. 

Edward Vasta, The University of Notre Dame 


Petrarch’s ‘Secretum’ with Introduction, Notes, and _ Critical 
Anthology. Trans. Davy A. Carozza and H. James Shey. American 
University Studies. Series 17, Classical Languages and Literature. 
Vol. 7. New York: Peter Lang, 1989. Pp. xvii, 284. 


This volume would make a fine text in a Medieval or Renaissance course devoted to 
examining Petrarch’s role in the evolution of Renaissance Humanism. It not only 
provides the translation of the Secretum, but an overview of the basic scholarship 
regarding the text. Following a “Chronological Sketch” of Petrarch’s life, the volume 
divides into five Parts. Part One includes a “General Introduction” and three 
subsections having to do with (a) Petrarchan studies devoted to the Secretum, (b) The 
form and meaning of the Secretum, and (c) notes on Petrarch’s Latinity and the 
present translation. Part Two contains the translation of the entire work. Part Three 
provides four Petrarchan texts related to the Secretum (Fam. 4.1, and poems 264, 360, 
and 366 of the Canzoniere). Part Four offers a critical anthology of scholarly texts 
dealing with various aspects of the Secretum, including a 1917 study by R. Sabbadini, 
and more recent studies by Rocco Montano, Pierre Courcelle, Giulio Augusto Levi, 
Enrico Carrara, and Francesco Tateo. Part Five provides a selected bibliography. 

In examining the form and meaning of the Secretum, the General Introduction 
maintains that the work is really not a spiritual autobiography in the manner of 
Augustine’s Confessions. It is rather a consolatio in the wider meaning of the term, 


Reviews and Notes 349 


which includes the dialectic of a Platonic dialogue, but marked by the presence within 
the dialogue of some kind of supernatural concern which defines the form as an 
apocalyptic dialogue. This leads to the presentation of the most recent thesis of 
Secretum criticism: Petrarch’s primary inspiration for its composition did not really 
come from Augustine’s Confessions, but rather from Boethius’ De Consolatione 
Philosophiae with an assistance from Augustine’s Soliloquia. The discussion includes 
an examination of the recent view that the composition of the work occurred in 1347, 
rather than in 1342-43, with revisions in 1349 and 1353. The remaining argument is 
dedicated to further buttressing this thesis and to an analysis of why a proper 
translation of the work’s full title, De secreto conflictu curarum mearum, would be A 
Private Conversation About My Personal Struggle with Anxiety. The authors believe 
that Petrarch wrote the Secretum “to console himself, and not as a confession” (23). 

The “General Introduction” ends with a discussion of Petrarch’s Latinity and the 
manner in which the translators hope to have their work “reflect as much as possible 
the rhetorical ornateness of the Latin and to convey something of the eloquence with 
which Erasmus credits Petrarch” (31-32). 

The translation that follows is based on the text established by Enrico Carrara in 
1955, which is the best to date, but not definitive. On the whole it reads smoothly, 
although at times somewhat excessive liberties seem to be taken. At the conclusion 
of the “Proem,” for instance, Petrarch addresses his book as follows: “Tuque ideo, 
libelle, conventus hominum fugiens, mecum mansisse contentus eris, nominis 
proprii non immemor.” The translation reads: “This little volume, therefore, is not 
intended for wide circulation, but will remain among my private papers — in keeping 
with its title” (39). The intimacy of the direct address never reaches the reader. 
Similarly, shortly after the opening of Book One, St. Augustine discusses “three 
points” that are keeping Petrarch from achieving happiness. In trying to 
overgeneralize the translation of reliquorum and istam causam, the translation seems 
to lose sight of the reference to the “three points” (42). But such discrepancies, 
though frequent, are mostly minor. 

Part Three offers other texts by Petrarch related to the Secretum. These include, in 
English translations, Petrarch’s description of his presumed climb of Mt. Ventoux 
contained in Fam. 4.1; the opening canzone (No. 264) of Part Two of the Canzoniere; 
poem 360, in which we find Petrarch debating Cupid at the Bar of Reason; and finally 
the last poem of the collection addressed to Mary. Given the obvious usefulness of all 
the texts given, it is a pity that the authors chose to use rather antiquated translations 
of the poems. Notwithstanding a Translators’ Note that the translations were chosen 
for their quality, the modern reader cannot avoid a sense of quaintness. The one other 
text that should perhaps have been included in this Part is the brief Fam. 2.9 in which 
Petrarch defends the reality of Laura against a skeptical friend who wonders whether 
Laura really exists. 

The “Critical Anthology” of Part Four includes six essays representing major 
trends in scholarship on the Secretum. These are particularly valuable because, as the 
authors explain, they do not include studies readily available in English. Most were 
originally written in a foreign language and are here presented for the first time in 
English. The first two selections offer the latest views on the date of composition of 
the work. In the “Introduction” to the Anthology a full discussion of the dating 
problem is given as well as summaries of the critical essays which follow in the 


350 Reviews and Notes 


Anthology. The “Selected Bibliography,” which closes the volume, is more than 
ample for acritical assessment of the Secretum. 

As intriguing as the thesis of the Boethian source of the Secretum may be, the 
fact that in his De Consolatione Philosophiae, Boethius was not merely in prison, 
but awaiting execution for treason, would seem to imply some difference in the spirit 
of the two works. As Petrarch states in the very first sentence of the “Proem,” his 
“vision” came to him while he was contemplating the problem of “how I came into 
existence and how I shall pass out of it” (37). Having obviously reached a kind of 
crisis in his life, as had Dante in the Comedy, Petrarch seemed indeed to be in search 
of advice rather than consolation. When St. Augustine ultimately identifies the two 
principal “chains of gold” that are keeping him from achieving some form of 
happiness, and indeed salvation, Petrarch agrees to free himself from one (Laura), but 
not from the other (Glory). The reasons are very complicated and must be sought 
throughout his works. But as I have shown in an essay appearing in this journal in 
1986 (45-72), they may be summarized in the concept of the “born-again ancient” 
living in Christian times, or a “Christian Apollo,” that is to say, the man of letters 
and upholder of ancient values and ideals, but with Christian awareness and concern. 
As he states at the very end of the Secretum, “I must abide on earth. . . . I eagerly 
hasten to other tasks. . . . I cannot restrain my desire for study” (144). 

These reflections, however, in no way are intended to detract from the basic value 
of this book. If something similar were done with every other Latin work of Petrarch, 
his true stature as the “father of Humanism” would become indisputable. It is only to 
be hoped that the typewriter-like typography of the text, typical of recent cost- 
cutting, computer-publishing technology being used by many publishing houses, 
does not interfere with the reader’s appreciation of its true worth. 

Aldo S. Bernardo, SUNY-Binghamton 


Giovanni Cavalcanti. Nuova opera (Chronique florentine inédite du 
XV® siécle). Edition critique, introduction et notes par Antoine 
Monti. Centre interuniversitaire de recherche sur la Renaissance 
italienne, n. 17. Paris: Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1989. 
Pp. 275. 


Ogni edizione di cronache inedite, ogni scoperta di manoscritti antichi, soprattutto 
se, come in questo caso, in sé ricchi di informazioni dettagliate su un mondo 
particulare che altrimenti rischierebbe di restar sepolto in una imprecisa memoria 
collettiva (“inter mortua jaceret”, direbbe Jean Bodin), deve essere salutata come uno 
sforzo benemerito di sottrarre all’oblio del tempo fatti, ricordi e personaggi degni di 
nota, degni di rimanere tra di noi. Una finalita morale, questa della storia, e lo ripete 
Giovanni Cavalcanti, l’autore della cronaca che qui presentiamo, richiamando 
implicitamente il celebre aforisma di Tucidide sulla funzione della storia: 
“ageiugnendo ammaestramenti alle future genti” (f° 1r), “accid ch’e futuri ne piglino 
essemplo” (f° 2r). Come tanti altri manoscritti, quello della Nuova opera, che 
Antoine Monti rispolvera ora dagli scaffali della Biblioteca Ricciardiana di Firenze, 


Reviews and Notes 351 


era gia noto agli specialisti del periodo di Cosimo il Vecchio e nel secolo scorso era 
gia stato in parte pubblicato: gli mancava, tuttavia, un’edizione onesta e moderna, 
come quella che qui presentiamo. 

Il poco che si sa sull’autore di questa cronaca, Giovanni Cavalcanti, vissuto tra il 
1381 e il 1451, @ presto detto dal curatore del volume, in una introduzione chiara e 
precisa. Quanto alla cronaca stessa, Monti la definisce “une oeuvre complexe et 
bouillonnante et, pour tout dire, hétéroclite . . . 4 mi-chemin entre l’histoire et le 
traité (moral, didactique et politique), entrecoupée de digressions mythologiques, 
anecdotiques ou méme “journalistiques’”. Opera singolare, dunque, ricca di intenzioni 
dichiaratamente polemiche da parte di un fiorentino colto che i debiti hanno 
costretto, dopo esser passato nelle “infernali carceri” della citta natale, a “ricond[ursi] 
in sull’antichita del [suo] arido monticello, il quale @ posto in sull’atorcigliato fiume 
ch’a Montelupo perde il nome” (f° 1r), cioé a Montecalvi, dove il torrente Pesa si 
getta nell’Amo. Dalla triste quiete del suo ritiro, lontano dai rumori partigiani e dai 
“villanelli raffazzonati . . . ribaldelli venuti di nuovo ad abitare la citta” (f° 63r), 
Cavalcanti si scaglia contro l’esosita e l’ingiustizia delle imposte e gli speculatori: 
]’“avarizia” e la “tiranneria” sono per lui le vere cause delle “cittadinesche discordie” 
(f° 65r) di Firenze. Ma sopra tutti, inveisce con virulenza contro i “vegniticci”, la 
“trista ciurma”, la “gente nuova”, gli arrivisti che gia Dante aveva stigmatizzato 
(Purg. VI, 125-26), ed é bello rileggere la citazione dantesca nel testo di questo 
“antico cittadino”, ora ufficialmente dichiarato “popolano” per bancarotta. Si sarebbe 
tentati di leggere la Nuova opera in chiave moderna, e i riferimenti possibili ad 
avvenimenti e personaggi dell’Italia contemporanea potrebbero essere fatti in modo 
non del tutto casuale. Ma é Cosimo il Vecchio e il suo incipiente assolutismo che, 
fondamentalmente, lo scrittore ha presente, quando attacca con implacabile dialettica 
la politica medicea (“la dolcezza del principio reggimento partor[i] si amarissimo 
fine” f° 2v), tesa in uno sforzo onerosissimo di creare a Firenze una architettonica 
grandeur, sviluppata a danno del cittadino senza posa tartassato. 

Moralista austero e storico onesto (“per la difesa del vero e ad offesa degli 
huomini invidiosi” f° 1r), benché attivamente impegnato nella vita politica 
cittadina, Giovanni Cavalcanti é@ autore che merita di essere letto: sotto la scorza un 
po’ ruvida del suo dettato, spesso faticoso, a volte perfino oscuro, si potra scoprire 
uno scrittore sobrio e, talvolta, un narratore dall’aneddottica piacevole, che attinge 
volentieri dai libri che hanno influito sulla sua formazione. Tra gli autori filosofici, 
pagani e cristiani, presenti nella Nuova opera, Cavalcanti cita Pitagora, Platone, 
Sallustio, Seneca, Agostino e Boezio; tra i poeti Ovidio, Dante e Petrarca, e una sola 
volta il Boccaccio. 

Quanto ai criteri seguiti dal Monti nella sua edizione, li troviamo affatto 
ineccepibili, e in ogni caso sono chiaramente espressi nell’introduzione; le note a 
pié pagina permettono di risalire senza difficolta alla grafia dell’originale. Se dei 
leggeri appunti si potranno fare alla trascrizione, saranno di essersi attenuti forse 
troppo alla diplomaticita dell’edizione e di non aver tenuto conto della “s” impura 
nella divisione in sillabe del testo italiano, di averlo cioé sillabizzato alla francese. 
Quanto alla parte puramente grafica, il lettore resta sconcertato di fronte ai rimandi 
alle note a pié di pagina, i quali talvolta sono esponenziali talaltra sottoscritti. 

Tutto considerato, questa edizione della Nuova opera resta un ottimo lavoro che 


352 Reviews and Notes 


fa onore non solo al curatore ma anche al “Centre interuniversitaire de recherche sur la 
Renaissance italienne”, 1’équipe che lo ha prodotto e che da quattordici anni continua 
con alacrita e acribia a pubblicare nuovi studi e nuove edizioni in questa collana. 

Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Manfredi Piccolomini. The Brutus Revival: Parricide and 
Tyrannicide in the Renaissance. Carbondale and Edwardsville: 
Southern Illinois UP, 1991. Pp. 142. 


In three chapters and an appendix, Piccolomini examines the literary and political 
followers of Brutus, conspirator against Julius Caesar. In his preface, the author 
traces his interest in the topic to the ideological dilemmas posed by the resurgence of 
Italian terrorism (specifically the killing of Aldo Moro) during the late 1970s. 

Chapter 1, “The Making of a Destiny,” traces the background of the late Roman 
republic and its medieval Nachleben. Under the latter rubric, Piccolomini treats the 
three “crowns of Florence”: Dante for his condemnation of Brutus as secular Judas and 
his salvation of Cato the Younger as Stoic libertarian, and the obiter dicta of Petrarch 
and Boccaccio on the topic. Piccolomini's discussion of Dante's reasons for placing 
Brutus in hell and Cato in purgatory occasions a cursory glance at the Latin tradition 
(Horace, Lucan, and Seneca), but adds little to Baron and others on the topic. 

The lengthy Chapter 2, “Brutus Carries Out his Destiny,” offers an ambitious 
survey of tyrannicide as a literary notion from the Trecento to the Cinquecento. 
Piccolomini begins with the obiter dicta of Petrarch and Boccaccio on “power.” 
Quattrocento humanism is represented by Salutati, Bruni, and Landino, whose 
remarks on Brutus (generally made in response to Dante) occasion reflections on 
destiny and “humankind’s . . . tragic flaw” (50). Curiously, Piccolomini's discussion 
of Bruni’s republicanism fails to mention his translation of Plutarch’s Antony, a text 
which sheds considerable light on the assassination of Caesar. 

For the late Quattrocento and early Cinquecento, Piccolomini examines 
Poliziano’s Pazzi Conspiracy, Alamanno Rinuccini’s De libertate, and Luca Della 
Robbia’s Narrazione of the last hours of Pietro Paolo Boscoli, who was condemned to 
death for a failed plot against Giuliano de’ Medici in 1513. In describing High 
Renaissance tyrannicides, Piccolomini recalls Burckhardt’s notion of fashion (63), 
and emphasizes the Florentine (i.e., Medicean) centrality of the Pazzi conspiracy and 
Lorenzaccio. Political historians may find it odd that Piccolomini regards Sixtus IV 
as motivated by libertarian ideals (64), and that he lumps Poliziano and Machiavelli 
together as interpreters of Medici power (68). 

The final chapter, “Brutus, Destiny, and Tragedy,” offers a brief survey of three 
Renaissance dramas based on the Brutus theme: Marc Antoine Muret’s Julius Caesar 
(ca. 1544), Jacques Grévin’s César (1558), and Orlando Pescetti’s Cesare (1594). In 
these plays, Piccolomini identifies four recurrent themes associated with Brutus’ deed: 
a view of the assassination as parricide, the futility of the act, and an emphasis on 
Brutus’ intellectualism and on his desire for fame. 

An appendix titled “Hamlet as a New Brutus” suggests that the late Renaissance 
placed would-be tyrannicides (and, by implication, modern terrorists) in a no-man’s 


Reviews and Notes 353 


land of political futility. 

Much of this volume seems intended for undergraduate readers. Piccolomini is 
often at pains to gloss facts and figures presumably familiar to students of the 
Renaissance. The prose is not altogether felicitous, occasionally betraying 
Italianisms of form and idiom such as ““Absburg” (85) and “a testament to the evils of 
the times” (29). Perhaps more troubling is the author’s heavy reliance on older critics 
like Burckhardt, Spengler, and Gollancz, and on such notions as destiny, fashion, and 
tragic flaws. In attempting to blend literature and political science, Piccolomini 
seems to share a post-Romantic views of Medici tyranny, as when he speculates that 
“maybe history used Lorenzino . . . to prove that tyrannicide, at least for a while, was 
out of style” (89). Ideally, a book which seeks to link contemporary terrorism to 
Renaissance tyrannicide should make more explicit the sources of its political 
orientation. Perhaps in a subsequent study Piccolomini will address the question of 
the Plutarchan tyrranicide myths which, at least for Italy’s Alfieri and Foscolo, join 
the age of the Enlightenment and the era of revolutions. 

David Marsh, Rutgers University 


Matteo Maria Boiardo. Orlando innamorato. Trans. Charles Stanley 
Ross. Berkeley: U of California P,1989. Pp. 891. 


With his translation of the Orlando innamorato Charles Ross has made a major 
contribution to the Anglo-American understanding of the Italian Renaissance. Verse 
romances and epics, the major narrative modes of the period, have so far not drawn 
the attention they should have. Students of English literature, for example, though 
they know about Spenser’s and Milton’s debts to the Italians, normally confine their 
reading to Ariosto and Tasso, who have multiple translations. As a result, English 
speakers have a skewed view of Italian literary culture, since no one reads Pulci, 
Boiardo, or Marino. 

In studies of romance Ariosto has monopolized all the attention, a situation also 
true to some extent for Italy itself. It is as if everyone had ceased to read any novels 
but Ulysses. One’s sense both of the genre and of the particular author must become 
eccentric, and Ariosto, for example, has received credit for much that is not his own. 
Readers of Ross’ translation will see that Ariosto borrowed most of his fantasy from 
the Innamorato. The humorous treatment of traditional characters and themes likewise 
existed already in both Boiardo and Pulci, though Ariosto gave the humor a peculiar 
twist. 

Ross’ translation thus fulfills a need and forms part of a broader movement 
among American scholars to make previously unknown Italian classics available to 
the modem reader. Harold Martin Priest began it, when he translated selections from 
Marino’s L’Adone in 1967, and the first volume of Annali d’italianistica (1983) 
included an excerpt from Joseph Tusiani’s version of Pulci as well as part of Ross’ 
Boiardo. In all these cases, of course, the test is the quality of the English version, 
for a translator can present an Italian author either well or badly. 

Boiardo composed the /nnamorato in ottava rima, the verse form traditional for 
romances but not often used in English. A verse translation would thus convey a 


354 Reviews and Notes 


sense of the original as poetry but risk inaccuracy, particularly if the English writer 
made additions, omissions, and changes to maintain a rhyme scheme. On the other 
hand, a prose version would give an exact sense of Boiardo’s meaning but would 
destroy much of the reading experience. Ross attempts a compromise. He opts for a 
verse translation, maintaining an exact syllable count, but omits rhyme. At the same 
time he tries to be as literal as possible, line by line. He thus preserves the 
experience of verse and at the same time keeps as much of the accuracy of a prose 
translation as he can. 

Boiardo, however, poses a number of dilemmas for any translator. Suggesting 
the cantari, he adopts the pretence of an oral performance with all its stylistic 
peculiarities: parataxis, recurring epithets, and stock phrases. Such a style tempts the 
translator to improve it, make it polished like the lyrical openings which Boiardo 
devised for some of his cantos. Yet a poet who could compose with such polish chose 
to appear “rude” in other sections of the Jnnamorato, and the translator then would 
misrepresent the original. Ross resists this temptation and has designed his 
translation to fit the oral pretence of the poem. One can read his translation aloud as 
well as silently. 

Boiardo’s range of style and mood provides the greatest test for a translator. The 
poet can present violent or humorous action, evoke lyrical moments, or describe 
fantastic places. To test Ross on this range of styles, I chose some passages from 
Book Two of the Innamorato. 

Ross does well with action scenes, whether humorous or military. The duel 
between Orlando and Pinadoro illustrates the latter. Agramante has sent the Saracen to 
collect captives and information: 


Quivi de intorno non era persona, 
Benché fosse la zuffa assai vicina; 

L’un verso I’altro a pit’ poter sperona 

A tutta briglia, con molta ruina. 
Ciascadun scudo al gran colpo risuona, 
Ma cade a terra il re di Constantina; 

Sua lancia and6 volando in pit tronconi, 
E lui di netto usci fuor de 1’ arcioni. 


Orlando lo piglid senza contese, 

Poi che caduto fu de lo afferante, 

Perd che lui non fece altre diffese, 

Né puote farle contra al sir de Anglante; 

E seco ragionando il conte intese 

Come quel ch’é nel monte é il re Agramante, 
Che per re Carlo e Francia disertare 

Con tanta gente avia passato *] mare. 


There wasn’t anyone around, 

Though they were very near the war. 
Each of them spurred with all his force, 
Riding precipitantly, hard, 


Reviews and Notes 355 


And both shields echoed when they hit. 
The king of Constantina fell: 

His lance turned into little splinters, 
And he flew cleanly from his saddle. 


Orlando grabbed him easily 
After he’d fallen from his steed, 
And the king put up no defense — 
He could not fight the lord d’Anglant — 
And the Count learned from Pinador 
That Agramante was on the mountain: 
He’d crossed the sea with many men 
To desolate King Charles and France. 
(2.29.35, 36) 


The octosyllabic lines of the English maintain the economy and swiftness of the 
original narrative. Ross conveys the stock phrases in this passage efficiently, and 
the casual opening gives a sense of the immediacy of an oral performance. “Riding 
precipitantly, hard” nicely catches “A tutta briglia, con molta ruina.” Hard balances 
the Latinate adverb and ends the line energetically. Ross keeps the sense of flying for 
the end of the stanza, though he transfers it from the lance to the person. The second 
ottava contains the impossible line six, with all the vowels jammed together in the 
double elision: “monte @ il re Agramante.” Ross turns this density into a nine 
syllable line: “That Agramante was on the mountain.” Throughout he stays as close 
to the literal sense of the Italian as possible. 

The lyrical and fantastic would normally create more difficulty for a translator 
who wishes to maintain the economy of the Italian. Take, for example, the two 
stanzas in which Orlando descends a long staircase to Morgana’s underground 
meadow: 


Or, come io dissi, il bon conte di Brava 
Git nella tomba alla sinistra mano 

Per una scala di marmo calava 

Pit de un gran miglio, e poi gionse nel piano; 
E col carbone avanti alluminava, 

Perché altramente seria gito invano, 

Ché quel camino é si malvagio e torto, 
Che mille fiate errando seria morto. 
Splendeva quivi il ciel sereno, 

Che nul zaffiro a quel termino arriva, 

Ed era d’arboscelli il prato pieno, 

Che ciascun avea frutti e ancor fioriva. 
Longe alla porta un miglio, o poco meno, 
Uno alto muro il campo dipartiva, 

De pietre trasparente e tanto chiare 

Che oltra di quello il bel giardino appare. 


356 Reviews and Notes 


Now, as I said, the Count of Blaye 
Descended through the labyrinth. 
He went left, down a marble stairway, 
More than a mile, then reached a plain, 
And, with the gem, he lit his way, 
Or else he would have gone in vain. 
That path’s so foul and twisted, he’d 
Have erred a thousand times and died. 
The cloudless sky here beamed so bright 
No sapphire could surpass its blue, 
And small trees filled the meadowland, 
Each bearing fruit, though each still bloomed. 
A mile or less beyond the door 
A high wall split the field in two, 
Made of transparent stones, through which 
A lovely garden could be viewed. 
(2.8.37, 41) 


In the first stanza Ross evokes effectively the main sense of the passage: the hero 
finding his way through a dark labyrinth. The stairs are labyrinthine, so is the whole 
place (2.8.15). He misses the eery extra sense that Orlando is dropping down into a 
tomb: “Git nella tomba . . . calava.” Paraphrase perhaps could suggest the sense of 
death which haunts this ottava, but the translator would then lose the economy of the 
original. For the other stanza, one of Boiardo’s celebrated descriptions of paradise, 
Ross has an almost perfect translation. The whole sequence in fact reads well. Ross 
thus passes both tests as a translator. He provides us with an accurate version, and his 
English verse reads well. A student will get a sense of both for the narrative speed and 
excitement of the original and for its wonder and beauty. 

In accord with the practice of the “Biblioteca italiana” Ross has made his 
translation part of a bilingual edition, and Aldo Scaglione’s Italian text faces the 
English version. As was necessary for a bilingual text of such length, the poem 
running between 35-36,000 lines, Ross has kept annotation to a minimum, a few 
pages of text at the back. A careful glossary of names and places, however, answers 
many of the questions a reader might ask. 

Such an arrangement, nevertheless, puts much stress on the “Introduction,” in 
which Ross must speak both to the general reader and to the specialist. In it he 
discusses the significance of the Jnnamorato for literary history, sketches Boiardo's 
life, and suggests an analysis of the romance. Ross does especially well with the 
elements strangest to a modern reader: interlace and repetition. Ross generally strikes 
a nice balance between older criticism like that of C. S. Lewis and the most recent 
studies. At the same time he has his own points to make about the poem, comparing 
Occasion in Boiardo and Spenser, showing that Peacock anticipated Panizzi in the 
rejection of Berni's rifacimento. Ross has a particularly good analysis of the first 
scenes in Paris: the interchange between Balugante and Ranaldo, the first tournament, 
and the aftermmath in Arden Wood, which Ross argues wanders about the French 


Reviews and Notes 357 


landscape. 

The whole edition has the meticulous planning and balance worthy of the poet 
and of the undertaking, and the University of California Press has printed the book in 
an elegant fashion. I would hope, however, that California would eventually issue a 
paperback of the English by itself. Ross’ Boiardo should compete with Barbara 
Reynolds’ version of the Furioso, which she did for Penguin. Only in such a format 
can students afford to buy the text and professors assign it for their classes. 

Ross spent many years working on this translation and did not, therefore, follow 
the normal course of a young teacher. Our profession values and rewards critical 
books and tends to treat translations in a patronizing way. Yet a good translation of a 
major work has more enduring value than most critical studies. Many years from now 
people will still read Ross’ Boiardo with pleasure, when most of our critical works 
collect dust in used bookstores. 

Michael Murrin, The University of Chicago 


Mario Santoro. Ariosto e il Rinascimento. Napoli: Liguori, 1989. 
Pp. 377 + Index. 


This volume of nearly four hundred pages comprises twenty of Mario Santoro’s 
essays, fifteen of which have appeared previously in print and five of which are 
published here for the first time. The new material in this collection amounts to only 
fifty-six pages, and many of the reprinted articles are gathered from the author's two 
earlier books on Ariosto (Letture ariostesche,1973; L’anello di Angelica, 1983). The 
present assembly, however, updates footnotes and affords a comprehensive view of 
Santoro’s dedicated engagement with the poetry of Ariosto over more than twenty- 
five years. In his introduction, Santoro offers this collection as a review of his work 
on Ariosto over a quarter of a century. He also suggests the broad influence of his 
critical approach both on recent developments in Ariosto criticism and on a revised 
notion of the Renaissance in general. 

Noteworthy among Santoro’s historical interests is his attention, at least as 
early as 1973, to the debate over women’s rights that recurs so often in the Furioso. 
Perhaps due to the Italian universities’ conservatism, critics there have been far less 
active in the area of Renaissance gender studies than have their counterparts in 
France, England, and North America. Yet Santoro’s essays on Rinaldo’s defense of 
women (1973), on the goblet of wifely fidelity (1976), and on Angelica’s “flight 
from history” (1978) antedate not only the volumes on women in sixteenth-century 
texts published in Italy by dwf (1985) and in Nel cerchio della luna (Marina Zancan, 
ed., 1983), but also the few gender-focused articles appearing in the double-volume 
study of Castiglione, La corte e il “Cortegiano” (C. Ossola and A. Prosperi, eds., 
1980). His inquiry into humanist arguments regarding women predates also the 
French collection, Images de la femme dans la littérature italienne de la Renaissance 
(J. Guidi and M. Piéjus, eds., 1980) and Joan Kelly’s widely debated study, “Did 
Women Have a Renaissance?” (Becoming Visible, R. Bridenthal and C. Koons, eds., 
1977), which is often regarded as an inaugurator of feminist studies of the period. For 
scholars who focus their research on conceptions of gender and sexuality in humanist 


358 Reviews and Notes 


culture, Santoro’s contribution in this area remains important. 

The present collection also features essays that highlight Santoro’s intensive 
studies in humanist learning, including new discussions of Rodomonte's 
abandonment of reason (Ch. XI) and of Ariosto’s early education (Ch. 1). In a more 
philosophical vein, several articles address Ariosto’s familiar concern with the 
intertwining of ethical and epistemological problems in human affairs, while others 
treat the poet’s engagement of contemporary political and social questions. These 
include previously unpublished articles on Ariosto's references to the New World (Ch. 
XIV) and on the technological innovation of firearms production in sixteenth-century 
Europe (Ch. Xv). 

Gathered together in this volume are Santoro’s provocative character studies of 
Astolfo (1963), Rinaldo (1973), and Angelica (1978) along with new essays on 
Rodomonte and Olimpia. Thematically these pieces coalesce as persuasive arguments 
for Ariosto’s attention to character consistency. Readers of Peter DeSa Wiggins’ 
Figures in Ariosto's Tapestry (1986), which includes a direct response to Santoro’s 
portrait of Rinaldo, will regret Santoro’s choice not to address the American critic’s 
counter-arguments in the new and revised essays: rarely have two intelligent readers 
of Ariosto been so close and yet so far apart. More generally, Santoro displays a 
noteworthy openness to the recent work of non-Italian scholars, particularly those 
writing in English. The collection ends with four essays devoted to Ariosto’s satires. 

Santoro’s role in what he terms the “profound transformation of the image of the 
Renaissance” (11) has been, as he points out, a constant and solid one through the 
nineteen-seventies and early eighties. A commitment to materialist historiography 
and a reassessment of literary activity within social contexts energized the most 
innovative studies of those decades in Europe, and Santoro’s work contributes to that 
broad project. This focus on the social constraints of both production and reception, 
along with the boom in literary-theoretical studies, changed fundamentally the 
subsequent reading not only of Ariosto but of all the literary artifacts of the period. 
Most important, as Santoro’s work demonstrates, the image that emerged from these 
studies of the fifteenth through the seventeenth centuries was deeply at odds with a 
long-standing view of the period as one of liberality and cultural bounty: of free re- 
nascence. 

Yet the limitations of Santoro’s willingness to embrace a transformed notion of 
the early modern period in Europe are signaled precisely by his terminology and his 
subject matter. It is to the Renaissance, and thus to the culture generated by 
humanism, that Santoro dedicates his energies, and not to the vast terrain opened by 
the investigations of historians, literary scholars, and anthropologists eager to 
explore cultural practices that occupied the world outside the elite group: and it is in 
these areas of study that ideas about the Renaissance have been most radically 
transformed in the last fifteen years. My intent here is not to criticize Santoro’s 
choice of topics for study in these masterful essays, but rather to indicate the degree 
to which they are still invested in a traditional humanist project. From the 
perspective of 1990, the essays on Ariosto’s use of the querelle des femmes seem to 
prepare the way for a deeper questioning of humanistic culture’s values, centered as 
they are on the protagonism of privileged, educated males, but one looks in vain for 
evidence of Santoro’s engagement with such questions. This may indicate his 
subscription to the scholarly premise that to study an author is to retrieve as 


Reviews and Notes 359 


faithfully as possible his or her values. As part of a process of critical interrogation, 
such reconstructive work is necessary, and Santoro studies humanist culture with 
exemplary integrity and erudition. Yet concretely, his discussions are constrained by 
the demands of fidelity to the poet’s “intentions.” Santoro thus never takes the 
further step of going beyond Ariosto’s concerns in assessing the significance of his 
work — the boldest step taken by recent scholarship in the early ages. As one 
audacious reader of classical culture has observed, “If our critical faculties are placed 
solely in the service of recovering and reanimating an author’s meaning, then we 
have already committed ourselves to the premises and protocols of the past” (John J. 
Winkler, The Constraints of Desire: The Anthropology of Sex and Gender in Ancient 
Greece, New York: Routledge, 1990, p. 126). We have much to learn from Santoro’s 
explorations of sixteenth-century culture. Particularly given his concerns in these 
lucid and valuable essays, however, the step beyond the service of recovery and 
reanimation is a step too soon withdrawn. 

Deanna Shemek, University of California, Santa Cruz 


Marianne Shapiro. The Poetics of Ariosto. Detroit: Wayne State UP, 
1988. Pp. 278. 


Marianne Shapiro justifies the need for her book by lamenting the paucity of 
significant scholarship on the Furioso. Scholars, students, and even the general 
reader wishing to know how their reading of the poem will illuminate their 
“understanding of its culture — have had little to resort to that which was written after 
the sixteenth century” (9). Of the approximately five thousand scholarly items 
published to date (as of 1980 both Fatini’s and Rodini-Di Maria’s bibliographies 
document 4,550 publications on Ariosto), she considers only a handful worthy of 
notice. 

As suggested by the title, the contribution the author promises lies in the depth 
of her analysis of Ariosto’s poetics. But before readers may benefit from Shapiro’s 
often brilliant insights, they must first negotiate a style so complex as to sacrifice 
clarity for the sake of aureate expression. For example: “The numerous incidental, 
courtly formalities in which Ariosto chose to embed much of his diction function in 
aid to an overarching formality. In elegant self-correcting language he produced a 
poem that stands ‘above it all’ in true princely fashion, discriminating between 
sentiment and sentimentality so as to speak this language unhindered” (11). The high 
tone and density of this style tends to frustrate readers in their attempt to follow with 
ease the author’s thought. This is especially true in the introductory chapter where 
Shapiro argues for a reading of the Furioso as Ariosto’s eighth Satire. Clarity is 
essential here, for it is here that readers are introduced to the major premise of the 
whole book, namely, that Ariosto is a master of allegoresis, with a strong propensity 
for undoing myth and for deconstructing both his own and other people’s texts. 

Among the stylistic techniques Ariosto employs in achieving his mastery, 
Shapiro discusses the poet’s penchant for undermining textual authority through 
inversion, recontextualization, transformation, fragmentation, or segmentation. She 
goes on to explore Ariosto’s use of these devices in five aspects of Renaissance 


360 Reviews and Notes 


writing, each constituting a chapter: satire, mythography, picture writing, 
amplification, and ecphrasis. 

The best demonstration of these techniques is perhaps in Shapiro’s eloquent 
exploration of Ariosto’s mythography which includes Atlante, Perseus, and 
Bellerophon. Relying on her solid scholarship, she takes the reader through the 
multiple, allegorized variations of these myths, showing how Ariosto borrows 
elements from different versions of the same myth in creating characters such as 
Astolfo and Ruggero. This sort of mythographic collage gives form to a character 
whose semantic relevance is constituted by the convergence of many sources. At 
times, Ariosto starts by stressing the symbolic value of the primary source of the 
myth, and then proceeds to neutralize or negate that value by means of inversion or 
fragmentation or transformation. As a result, the myth is often deconstructed at the 
moment of creation, since the mythographic bits that go into the making of a 
character, given their provisional nature, are themselves subjected to 
recontextualization, inversion, or even distortion. This technique underscores 
Ariosto’s conception of a world in constant tension between the certain and the 
ephemeral, the fleeting and the lasting, illusion and reality. Shapiro correctly points 
to the historical referent of this view by alluding to the swift changes and the socio- 
political instability brought on by the devastating French invasions of Italy, begun 
in 1494 by Charles VIII. 

The poet’s “fragmenting and dividing, parceling out, shifting and 
repositioning” (131) of texts is also the subject of the chapter on “Ariosto’s Multiple 
Vision,” where Shapiro discusses the technique of doubling or amplification, noting 
that important events have occurred somewhere before, and that story lines tend to 
subdivide constantly. She pointedly observes that “multiplying within and without 
the confines of the text argue processually that writing consists mainly in the new 
disposition of elements of an existing, hence, stable body of expression.” (191). She 
goes on to discuss ecphrasis, a device exemplified by Homer’s verbal painting of 
Achilles shield. This aspect of Renaissance writing deals with description of 
‘pictures,’ allowing to poet to show rather than tell. 

The scholar, student, and general reader who make their way through Shapiro’s 
dense style is finally rewarded not so much with a significant breakthrough in 
Ariostean scholarship, but with an articulate analysis of writing techniques which 
emerge as signs of Ariosto’s perception of the world. Indeed, the novelty of 
Shapiro’s work lies in the freshness of her approach to and restatement of commonly 
held views, and, in particular, the notion that in Ariosto’s world all is relative. This 
is a world where, in Shapiro’s words, “no perception is sure and no purpose surely 
rewarded. . . . the loveliest aspects of life are the most fragile and fleeting. . . . fame 
may be the path of wrongdoing. . . . everything must bear the imprint of a universally 
divided mind. Repeated contrasts only make the opposite of every single thing the 
more explicit, suspending final judgment” (243). 

Salvatore Di Maria, University of Tennessee 


Reviews and Notes 361 


Robert Klein and Henri Zerner, Italian Art, 1500-600: Sources and 
Documents. Evanston: Northwestern UP, 1989. Pp. 195. 


Italian Art, 1500-1600 is an affordable reissue of an anthology originally published 
in 1966 as part of the Prentice-Hall series, “Sources and Documents in the History of 
Art.” Though aimed at lay readers and undergraduate students, this project was 
entrusted to distinguished specialists who also took into account the interests of the 
professional scholar. 

The Prentice-Hall series made available, in English, representative selections of 
written sources on the arts dating from major periods in the history of Western art. 
Editorial interventions were minimal. Each volume provided 1) a brief “Preface” 
outlining the art historical issues at stake, and 2) the texts themselves, grouped under 
broad chronological and thematic headings, and introduced by brief interpretive 
essays. The layout was equally suited to sequential reading and to random sampling. 

Like other titles in the Prentice-Hall series, Jtalian Art, 1500-1600 had gone out 
of print. It is gratifying to see it reissued at a time when the very concept of artistic 
originality is under scrutiny. The figure of the “fine” artist, bearing all the marks of 
“creative genius” in the modern sense, assumed historical consistency in the critical 
literature of the Cinquecento; inevitably, the record of its emergence sheds light on 
our current critical projections. In their “Preface,” Klein and Zerner present these 
convergent phenomena — the social and professional rise of the sixteenth-century 
artist, and the maturation of a specialized art literature (drawing a more diverse 
audience into the artistic dialogue) — as the keys to the organization of the volume. 

The assorted texts are grouped in eight sections of roughly similar length: 1) Art 
and the Cultured Public (on the formation of the aristocratic taste for High 
Renaissance art); 2) Documents on Art and Artists (featuring material on 
commissions and the promotion of artists); 3) Mid-Century Venetian Art Criticism 
(introducing the pioneering texts of an “engaged” art criticism); 4) Vasari; 5) Art 
Theory in the Second Half of the Century (illustrating the academic orientation of 
specialized texts on art); 6) The Counter-Reformation (suggesting the effect of the 
Roman Catholic Reform on Italian art and its criticism); 7) Artists, Amateurs, and 
Collectors (reprising section 1) from the standpoint of the late-sixteenth-century 
“crisis” in patron-artist relations); and 8) On Beauty (documenting the increasing 
“idealism” of art theory in the wake of the High Renaissance). 

Appropriately, the section on Vasari is at the heart of the volume, for he 
virtually invented modern art history in his brilliant synthesis of the several textual 
traditions (biographical, topographical, technical, critical) on Italian art. If there is 
something to regret, it is the omission of important authors from the first third of the 
century, when developments in artistic practice were at their most innovative: Giovio 
and Gauricus (but Leonardo also deserved fuller representation). From the student’s 
standpoint, it is also unfortunate that the reissue could not accommodate a 
bibliographic addendum: since 1966, the English-language scholarship on the 
Cinquecento art literature has made enormous strides. On the other hand, the absence 
of architectural theory is justified, as the latter constitutes a separate field of inquiry. 

Even where one disagrees with the editors’ assessment of historical 
developments, there is much to learn from their analysis of the evidence. This book 
should remain a thought-provoking introduction to the riches of the Cinquecento 


362 Reviews and Notes 


literature on the arts. 
Mary Pardo, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


David O. Frantz. Festum Voluptatis: A Study of Renaissance 
Erotica. Columbus: Ohio State UP, 1989. Pp. 275. 


Citing the British seventeenth-century scholar Roger Thompson (Unfit for Modest 
Ears), David Frantz endeavors in his introduction to distinguish among the 
pornographic (1), the obscene (2), the bawdy (3) and the erotic proper (4). All four 
categories of writing and art of are, however, embraced by the general term erotica, 
and all are given attention in this rather ambitious study. Pornography gets relatively 
more space in the chapters dealing with Italian material, while the obscene, or 
scatological, is more prominent in English subject matter. The book is in fact a study 
of Renaissance erotica in those two countries, with Italy playing in this context as in 
so many others the role of model and source. 

A first chapter, devoted to learned erotica in Italy, deals principally with 
Poggio's Facetiae, and with the relevant works of Francesco Berni, Anton Francesco 
Doni, Annibale Caro, and Antonio Vignale. In connection with the Cinquecento 
writers, there is a very interesting discussion of the development of accademie, and 
its effects on literary wit. This section contains also a concentrated treatment of the 
minor genre of the mock or paradoxical encomium, destined to be much copied in 
England. 

Chapter 2, “The Scourge of Princes as Pornographer,” gives extended attention 
to Aretino, and the following one considers his disciples in the erotic vein, known as 
the Aretines, most notably Niccold Franco, Lorenzo Veniero, and Antonio 
Cavallino. Here, clearly, are the main sources for English pornographers to come, 
and there is a special consideration of the lascivious or scurrilous sonnet, destined for 
English success. 

The fourth and final chapter in the Italian section examines erotica in the visual 
arts, with most attention going to Giulio Romano (whose famous drawings of 
posizioni were accompanied by sonetti caudati of Aretino), Perino del Vaga, 
Agostino and Annibale Carracci, Titian, and Giorgione. Thirty-eight illustrations 
show the principal paintings and drawings discussed. 

Moving north, the fifth chapter looks at “English Views of Italy,” with the well- 
known ambivalence of attitudes that ranged from extreme admiration to contempt or 
hatred. Italian erotica found a market in England, and the author indulges mild sarcasm 
in pointing out that “Someone admired Italian works that were not neoplatonic” 
(142). The printer John Wolfe and John Florio are prominent among the Italophiles 
discussed, and Roger Ascham the outstanding Italophobe. Chapter 6 examines a 
number of people who cultivated “Erotica in England,” with special attention to the 
paradoxical encomium and epigram, while chapter 8 is given over entirely to the 
eroticist Thomas Nashe, "the English Aretino.” In a final section on “The Context of 
Erotica,” relevant attention is given to John Marston and to the major figures of 
Donne, Shakespeare, and Spencer. 

Frantz is no doubt writing mainly for English specialists and would perhaps not 


Reviews and Notes 363 


lay claim to a great deal of original primary research on the Italian erotica. Italianists 
will, however, find his broad survey to be very interesting, especially in his 
attention to minor genres, and will also appreciate a number of his judgments, as for 
example that Aretino in his sonnets is “subverting not the real world but another 
fictive world, the world of sonneteers, Petrarchism” (55); “that part of what 
distinguishes good pornography from the mediocre or bad are those elements which 
carry it beyond its chief end” (76-77); or even the marginal but sound observation 
“that art historians have always been better at using literary materials than literary 
historians have been at using the visual arts” (118-19). 

It is discouraging to find a number of errors in the translation of Renaissance 
Italian. Occasionally ordinary words are rendered wrongly, as, for example, “luxury” 
for “lussuria” (31) or “in a little while” for “un dappoco,” rightly “a person of little 
account” (53). In the latter passage two verb tenses are also translated wrongly. Most 
mistakes come, however, in interpretation of the numerous passages of sexual 
double-entendres, admittedly very difficult material. The author laboriously acquired a 
certain familiarity with this specialized gergo, but he would have benefitted 
enormously from an acquaintance with Jean Toscan's four-volume Le Carnaval du 
langage: le lexique érotique des poétes de l'équivoque de Burchiello a Marino (XVe- 
XVIle siécles) (Presses Universitaires de Lille, 1981), which is still little known. 

Linguistic errors do not, however, take seriously away from the usefulness of 
what is really a remarkably broad vue d’ensemble of Italian and English erotica in the 
Renaissance. 

Bonner Mitchell, University of Missouri-Columbia 


Torquato Tasso. Rinaldo. Edizione critica basata sulla seconda 
edizione del 1570 con le varianti della princeps (1562). Ed. 
Michael Sherberg. Classici Italiani Minori, 16. Ravenna: Longo, 
1990. Pp. 334. 


Tasso’s Rinaldo deserves to be better known. It is no accident that the hero’s name 
recurs as that of the executive protagonist of the Liberata. Elegant, impetuous, 
ambitious, self-obsessed, impatient with obscurity, eager for sensual gratification, 
but prepared to sublimate or postpone it, to make it subordinate to his dreams of 
glory, Rinaldo is of course a figure of the poet himself. He also brings with him, to 
be chastened by the epic world, the potentially unlimited narrative freedom of 
romance. Let us not forget that to write the Rinaldo Tasso interrupted the Ur-Liberata, 
the so-called Gierusalemme, his first attempt to dramatize the history of the First 
Crusade, begun in 1559 at the age of fifteen. (Most of its 115 octaves, however, 
survive, remarkably, twenty years later in the completed epic.) The first attempt at 
straight epic had run aground. Begun in medias res, with Jerusalem a sitting duck, the 
action had threatened to be over before it got started. The trick was to delay 
dénouement, or, better, to tie some knots. The tension and suspense of the poetic 
unicum Tasso would later invent was to come from the spectacular clash between the 
irresponsible centrifugal drive of romance and its equally irresponsible languors, and 
the deliberate centripetal teleological epic plod. Without the experiment (not the 


364 Reviews and Notes 


vacation) of the Rinaldo, Tasso would not have discovered the structural necessity of 
the “‘amori e incanti” he so stubbornly defended in the Liberata. 

I would like to begin by expressing a sincere debt of gratitude to the editor of the 
volume under review, Michael Sherberg — who, incidentally, also thanks me, among 
his acknowledgements, for my epistolary answers to a number of his linguistic 
queries (7). In May 1989, before his book was published, Sherberg was kind enough 
to send me a diskette containing a pre-final copy of his critical text, which saved me 
no end of time, since I too was (and still am) working on a less ambitious task 
involving the Rinaldo — an annotated edition for the Grande Universale Mursia 
series directed by Roberto Fedi. Let me say at the outset that my own text will not 
reproduce the text of this edition. 

What, briefly, have been the editoriai fortunes of this, Torquato Tasso’s first 
complete narrative work? For the answer to this question, we must turn to the classic 
article, “Testo e tradizione del Rinaldo,” published by Cesare Bozzetti thirty years 
ago in Studi tassiani, 11 (1961), 5-44. The romance was composed, according to 
Tasso’s own prose preface, at the instigation of the poet-sculptor Danese Cattaneo, 
over a ten-month period, while the author was still a law student at Padua, and 
published in Venice “‘appresso Francesco Senese” in 1562, after his father Bernardo 
Tasso, submitting to pressure from a claque of “dottissimi e giudiziosissiuni 
gentiluomini” (60), had given his reluctant permission. All this before young 
Torquato (then making his debut as “il Tassino”) had reached his nineteenth birthday. 
Only two years earlier, in 1560, the more circumspect Bernardo had published, also in 
Venice, his own romance, the elephantine Amadigi (one hundred cantos, and more 
stanzas than the Orlando innamorato and the Orlando furioso put together!) at what I 
used to think of as the ripe old age of sixty-seven. 

Torquato’s Rinaldo would go through half a dozen editions before the end of the 
century, but the only other one that counts is the second Venetian edition of 1570, 
printed like the first by Francesco Senese (in this case the frontispiece reads 
“Francesco de’ Franceschi Sanese”). In the absence of an authoritative MS, Bozzetti 
was the first to collate the two editions (Sj and S2 respectively) accurately and to 
realize that the second was an authorially revised text, containing the corrections 
made by Tasso, presumably in a lost copy of the first edition. S2, then, would appear 
to constitute the definitive text. Bozzetti, however, advised against making it the 
basis of a modern critical edition. His reasons might at first sight appear hedonistic, 
but I believe they are sound. For Bozzetti, the 1562 text represents too precious an 
incunabulum of Tasso’s early narrative style for it to be supplanted by a text that 
incorporates the stylistic evolution of the subsequent eight years. Paradoxically, 
therefore, Bozzetti proposes a critical edition based on the 1562 text, with the 1570 
variants relegated to the apparatus. If we accept Bozzetti’s hypothesis, based on 
internal evidence, that the substantive variants of S2 do not imply a second MS 
version but were written in the margins of a copy of S1, then it certainly seems likely 
that the remaining non-substantive differences in the linguistic texture of the two 
editions are to be laid at the door of the compositor. My own experience of the 
typesetter’s psychology (he will be more careful when setting from manuscript), as 
well as of Tasso’s distracted erratic even slovenly practice as a corrector of his texts, 
leads me to conclude that we are safe in this particular case in returning to the 
otherwise discredited principle, recentiores sunt deteriores. 


Reviews and Notes 365 


Bozzetti’s exhaustive study of the problems of the text pointed out the 
shortcomings of all previous editions. Bozzetti never got around, however, to 
preparing the new critical text he promised. Three years after Bozzetti’s article 
appeared, when faced — as part of the daunting task of providing a modern annotated 
edition of all of the poet’s works — with the problem of what to do with the Rinaldo, 
Bruno Maier decided “non senza perplessita” on a pis aller: to reproduce as 
scrupulously as possible and with the bare essential critical intervention the text of 
the 1562 editio princeps, leaving the critical edition — and the problem of the 1570 
variants — to Bozzetti, a note to whose article, which mentioned the Laterza 
“Scrittori d’Italia” series, seemed tantamount to the staking of a claim (see “Nota ai 
testi,” in Torquato Tasso. Opere. 5 vols. Milano: Rizzoli, 1963-65. 2: 875-76). This 
was also the decision of the eminent tassista Bortolo Tommaso Sozzi, who, in the 
third enlarged edition of his collection of the poet’s selected works (an edition not 
cited by Sherberg in the bibliography on p. 39), includes the complete text of the 
Rinaldo in Maier’s edition “con qualche indispensabile emendamento per la 
punteggiatura” (see “Nota ai testi,” in Torquato Tasso. Opere. 2 vols. Torino: UTET, 
1974. 2: 8). 

At this point, it seems appropriate for me to state my own intentions. The 
collection my edition will appear in is addressed to a scholastic rather than to a 
scholarly audience, and a pretentious critical apparatus would tend to detract from its 
attractiveness to the general public. It will be, then, what Bozzetti describes as “una 
edizione corrente” (Bozzetti 41). The text, however, will incorporate the results of 
my own collation of S$; and S2, and, though lacking an apparatus, will be to all 
intents and purposes critical, reproducing all that is salvageable of the linguistic 
texture of Sj, but introducing wherever they occur the substantive variants of S27. My 
choice, though I realize that what I propose is a contaminated text, is less radical, in 
light of the recent enlightened critical tradition, than Sherberg’s. Sherberg breaks 
with Bozzetti, Maier and Sozzi in proposing to make S2 and not S, his basic text and 
in relegating the variants of Sj to his apparatus. I say “proposing” because his 
edition is not always an accurate representation or a correct interpretation of the true 
state of affairs. Not all of the differences between S and S2 are recorded. Morever, 
having chosen to follow S2, he seems to have concluded that he could afford to ignore 
the only other responsible modem edition, Maier’s (followed as we said by Sozzi), 
which reproduces S;. He may even have seen it as a possible distraction. If this was a 
conscious decision, then it was a mistake, since both Sj and S9 are full of misprints 
and misreadings, often the same misprints and misreadings, and Maier is after all a 
native speaker and in theory better able to spot an error than us foreigners. In 
addition, Italian punctuation norms are not the same as English, and Maier’s edition 
would have been a good model to go by. Not that Maier does not make mistakes. He 
does. Of various kinds. And not all of them are caught by Sozzi. On the whole, 
however, within the limits of their intentions, their editions contain fewer errors 
than Sherberg’s. 

Space permits me but a single example of a missed opportunity. Among the 
cruces identified by Bozzetti is the following. We are close to the beginning of Canto 
5, where our hero Rinaldo meets his future companion-in-arms Florindo for the first 
time. For the moment Florindo is all pastoral, very cute to look at and very plaintive. 
His soliloquy accusing Love of taking unfair advantage of just plain folks looks 


366 Reviews and Notes 


forward in a way to the prologue of Aminta, in which the boy Love declares his 
boyishly willful intention of wreaking havoc outside of the highfalutin courtly 
circles exclusively favored by his social-climbing mother Venus. (Significantly, 
Florindo’s lament contains the only two stanzas of the Rinaldo — stanzas 16 and 18 
— set to music by sixteenth-century madrigalisti.) The lines that interest us occur in 
the second half of stanza 16: “Deh qual gloria te aspetti e qual onore / s’io tale 
schermo alcun non far pur oso / s’a pena |’arco steso, a pena accinto / eri a ferir, ch’io 
mi rendei per vinto?” (5: 16, 5-8). Oddly, as Bozzetti had already pointed out that the 
second line quoted makes no sense (Bozzetti 23), Sherberg leaves it as it stands. 
(Even Bozzetti himself is not immune to error. In quoting the stanza, he banalizes the 
“te” of line 5 into a “ti.”) The text of Sj is of no help at this point, since, though the 
overall meaning remains the same, the last four lines of the canto have been radically 
reworked in S2. Bozzetti’s conjectural correction (‘‘s’io a te schermo alcun pur far non 
oso”) is a good one and restores the sense, though it has the compositor of Sj 
inverting the author’s intended order of “pur far non” and writing “non far pur,” as 
well as, somewhat more implausibly, misreading “‘a te” as “tale.” I propose a more 
economical solution (always preferable), which calls for no change in the word order, 
merely suggesting that “fare” in Tasso’s handwriting could have been misread as 
“tale” and “fui” as “far.” The new reading (“s’io fare schermo alcun non fui pur oso”’) 
has the advantage of restoring a verb in the passato remoto tense (‘fui’) to a context 
in which the other main narrative verbs (“venisti,” “mi rendei’”’) are also in the 
preterite. Furthermore, my conjecture, in which “oso” is no longer the first person 
singular of the verb but part of a verbal locution modelled on the Latin semi-deponent 
perfect ausus sum, is, I find, more elegant, and certainly more in keeping with the 
authoritative examples of Dante and Petrarch, both of whom use “oso” only in the 
rhyming position and only in this grammatical role (Pg. 11:126; Pg. 20: 149; Pd. 
14:130; and R.V.F. 356: 4; Tr. Fam. 3: 79). So young and so intertextual. Well, bless 
my aporia, this must be Tasso. 

Anthony Oldcorn, Brown University 


Veronica Gambara e la_ poesia del suo tempo nell'italia 
settentrionale. Atti del Convegno (Brescia-Correggio, 17-19 ottobre 
1985). Ed. Cesare Bozzetti, Pietro Gibellini, Ennio Sandal. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1989. Pp. 442. 


The title of this volume is precise: it is not a collection of essays about the poetry of 
Veronica Gambara (pronounced Gambara), but rather about Gambara, the historical 
figure, her family, her cities, Brescia (where she was raised) and Correggio (where she 
spent her adult life), the historical vicissitudes of her works and her fame, 
contemporary writers and the general literary scene in her part of Italy, in her times. 
Only five of the sixteen collected essays treat her works, two take up the problem of 
establishing critical texts, one narrates the story of her poetic correspondence with 
Pietro Bembo, and two examine the musical settings of her poetry. Only one of the five 
essays enters into the literary merits of her writing; that is simply not what the 
conference celebrating the fifth centenary of her birth was about. While this reader’s 


Reviews and Notes 367 


expectations were disappointed, the volume makes clear that the literary historical and 
philological scholarship necessary for a serious study of the writer had not been done 
and that even now there is much more to do. 

Veronica Gambara (Pralboino, 1485 — Correggio, 1550), poet and member of an 
important Brescian family, became countess of Correggio when she married Count 
Giberto da Correggio in 1509. During her husband’s absences and then permanently 
after his death in 1518 she assumed and ably handled the political affairs of her city- 
state. She corresponded with important literary and political figures such as Aretino, 
Isabella d’Este, Ariosto, Bernardo Tasso, and Emperor Charles V, and was a central 
figure in the culture and politics of Northern Italy in the first half of the sixteenth 
century. 

Carlo Dionisotti’s essay on the political history of Brescia in the early sixteenth 
century situates the prominent Brescian families of Gambara and Capriolo (the family 
of a noted local historian) in the political struggles of the time. Gambara’s father had 
first fought for Venice, but switched allegiance to France and finally to Spain. Veronica 
as ruler of Correggio continued successfully to pursue the same political course. Her 
literary relations, however, were not bound by her politics and she maintained an 
important correspondence and poetic exchange with Pietro Bembo, which she had 
begun in her youth in Brescia. This literary friendship is the subject of Giorgio 
Dilemmi’s essay, which documents carefully, poem by poem, the exchange between 
Bembo and Veronica Gambara, probably the “Berenice” of his Asolani. Guglielmo 
Gorni corrects some problems of mistaken identity of the correspondents addressed in 
Bembo’s verse. He does so by noting repetitions of key words and expressions used to 
allude to specific persons. For example, in poems known to be written for Maria 
Savorgnan the word “mare” and in letters “mille” (reference to her initial M.) recur; “di 
pari” and “parimente” seem to have special significance to the two in their 
correspondence as does, and in the poetry as well, the metaphor which calls Maria the 
source, the “radice” (literally, root) of all his thoughts, happiness, suffering, etc. The 
recurrence of these words, and similarly of “luce” and “sole” for Lucrezia Borgia, 
“onore” for Vittoria Colonna, constitutes a specialized, allusive language in the poetry 
through which the identity of the addressee is adumbrated. Gorni, by paying careful 
attention to Bembo’s linguistic games, to metrical evidence and thematic congruences, 
has been able to correct some misidentified addressees, proving beyond doubt, for 
example, that the sonnet “Rime leggiadre, che novellamente,” thought by many to 
have been written for Veronica Gambara, was a response to one sent to Bembo by 
Maria Savorgnan. The essay is a convincing and entertaining presentation of one 
aspect of the intense literariness of Bembo’s writing. 

Two papers should be singled out for their philological thoroughness. Alan 
Bullock, also known for his excellent work on the poetry of Vittoria Colonna, has 
carefully sorted out the manuscript and printed traditions of all of the poetry attributed 
to Veronica Gambara. He examines the three principal collections: Brescia, 1759, 
Felice Rizzardi, ed.; Florence, 1879, Pia Mestica Chiappetti, ed.; and Turin, 1880, 
edited by an anonymous “trentino.” Bullock’s essay carefully lays out the problems yet 
to be resolved in order to define the authentic corpus of Gambara’s poetry. The notes 
alone, listing all the many editions and manuscripts containing poems attributed to 
Gambara, make this an important contribution to the scholarly literature, an essential 
study for the preparation of a critical edition of her poetry. Bullock includes in his 


368 Reviews and Notes 


essay the text of six previously unpublished poems attributed to Gambara. One which 
he considers doubtful, but in need of further study, is “A canti sonori,” a long 
canzonetta of sixteen strophes, each of four senari (six-syllable lines) rhymed abab. 
This piece was transcribed in the eighteenth century and no earlier ms. has come to 
light. It has all of the characteristics, in my view, of a late sixteenth- or a seventeenth- 
century theatrical song of the sort used in Christmas plays at the adoration of the 
manger. The text would seem to be written for a double choir of angels and shepherds, a 
musical type popular in Baroque theater. 

While the canzonetta, “A canti sonori,” which I believe was written to be sung, 
does not seem to be Gambara’s, many of her poems were set to music in the sixteenth 
and seventeenth centuries. Maria Teresa Rosa Barezzani describes the musical settings 
of Tromboncino, Verdelot, Bernardo Lupacchino da Vasto, Vincenzo Ruffo, Francesco 
Portinaro, Francesco De Layolle, Niccoldé Dorati, Pietro da Ostia, Giulio Fiesco, 
Annibale Stabile, Aurelio Roccia da Venafro, Niccolé Vicentino and finally Luca 
Marenzio, using them to illustrate, at the same time, the development, in the latter half 
of the sixteenth century, of the mature madrigal style. Claudio Vela’s historical and 
theoretical discussion of the music concentrates on making clear the distinction 
between “poesia per musica” and “poesia in musica,” poetry written for music and 
poetry later set to music, the development first of the frottola style and the evolution 
of the madrigal. 

Elisabetta Selmi’s study of Gambara’s correspondence, like Bullock’s work, is a 
model of philological thoroughness. She points out the shortcomings of the three 
modern editions (the same as the poetry: 1759, 1879 and 1880) and she laments the 
loss of what must have been Gambara’s most interesting correspondence, for example, 
most of her letters to Bembo, Cardinal Ridolfi, Vittoria Colonna, Isabella d’Este, 
Aretino, Molza, and Trissino. Selmi’s article is unique in the collection in that besides 
historical and philological matters it also addresses literary critical issues in 
Gambara’s writing. She characterizes Gambara’s style, her “literary self-presentation,” 
as a “civile conversazione,” a humanistic discourse somewhat camouflaged by an 
apparent “orality” which is in truth an able rhetorical orchestration of familiar spoken 
dialogue and highly literary writing (170, 178). Gambara seems to have had no 
intention to collect and publish her letters, as so many of her contemporaries did, no 
desire to preserve an “ideal” version of herself for posterity; her correspondence seems 
to have had the more direct and immediate aim of realizing a communication among 
kindred spirits (172). 

Ugo Vaglia traces the fortune of Veronica Gambara in eighteenth-century Brescia. 
While selections of her poetry were often included in sixteenth- and seventeenth- 
century anthologies, and a few of her letters appeared in that form as well, interest in 
collecting Veronica Gambara’s work began in early eighteenth-century Brescia 
(Rizzardi, 1759) where she had become a local hero. It was then and there too that 
Camillo Zamboni published his biography of her. Her life was proposed as a model for 
Brescian noblewomen; and she became the paragon of feminine virtues invoked in 
literature. And the cultural history of Brescia is more directly the subject of two other 
studies: Ernesto Travi discusses the curriculum of private boys’ schools in sixteenth- 
century Brescia, and Ennio Sandal connects members of the Gambara family with a 
number of early published books, not as authors or publishers, but as patrons and 
intellectuals. Alberto Ghidini studies instead the political and economic history of 


Reviews and Notes 369 


Correggio, a city that struggled to maintain its autonomy and did so successfully and 
prospered under the leadership of the da Correggios in the fifteenth and sixteenth 
centuries, losing its independence only eighty years after Veronica Gambara’s death. 
Agriculture was the mainstay of its economy and the government’s enlightened 
policies brought about the general prosperity of the city and its territories. The urban 
area developed especially under Niccolé da Correggio and Veronica Gambara; important 
artists (Biagio Rossetti and Antonio Allegri) worked there and writers such as Ariosto 
visited its court. There was a somewhat free religious climate and ideas of the 
Reformation circulated in the early sixteenth century, some of the ideas, such as the 
question of predestination, of works versus faith, tuning up even in the writing of 
Veronica Gambara, though she was an outspoken critic in the 1540s of the Lutheran 
controversy and of the Reformer Bernardo Ochino. 

The other essays are devoted to the lives and work of various representatives of the 
Northern Italian literary world in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth century. Some of 
these persons were important enough to be mentioned in Canto 46 of the Orlando 
furioso among the writers and artists welcoming Ariosto home from his literary 
voyage, although very little is known of them today. This part of the collection 
attempts to resurrect the lost history. The Milanese poet Girolamo Cittadini is studied 
by Massimo Danzi, the Mantovan Paride Ceresara by Andrea Comboni and Ippolita 
Clara, from Alessandria, but who lived and wrote in Milan, by Simone Albonico; all 
three essays include a discussion of textual issues and the publication of a 
representative selection of poetry, for the most part previously unpublished. Bortolo 
Martinelli’s contribution is an inventory of the library of the Milanese petrarchist 
Gasparo Visconti. Finally, Silvia Longhi, in her “‘Lettere a Ippolito e a Teseo: la voce 
femminile nell’elegia,” studies the tradition of mimesis of Ovid’s Heroides, letters in 
terza rima, generally elegiac laments in a feminine voice (“voce femminile finta . . . 
scrittura femminile per interposta persona” 389), written by Niccolé da Correggio, 
Serafino Aquilano, Tebaldeo and the Bolognese poet Giovanni Filoteo Achillini. 
Longhi analyzes the genre in its vernacular forms, its topoi, its myths, the attributes 
of the narrative voice, when feminine, sometimes affectionate, sometimes furious. She 
points out that the elegies generally conclude with the speaker’s death, that their 
rhetorical strategies are designed not to elicit a response, but rather to delay the end, 
and that the figure of Penelope is a recurrent emblem. Longhi’s is one of the very few 
papers in the collection with literary critical as well as historical interests. Veronica 
Gambara’s verse deserves this sort of careful analysis and, though that is not to be 
found in this volume, the essays here presented provide the philological and historical 
groundwork from which it is to be hoped there will come reliable editions and 
evaluations of her writing. 

Elissa Weaver, The University of Chicago 


Giancarlo Maiorino. The Cornucopian Mind and the Baroque Unity 
of the Arts. University Park: Pennsylvania State. 1990. Pp. 210. 


In the understanding of the Western development certainly the most elusive and 
abused term is that of the “Baroque.” Its chameleon-like procession of guises and 


370 Reviews and Notes 


elasticity of forms seem to defy the Apollonian craving for definition and the supply 
of specific Cartesian limits. Yet the term embraces a number of cultural propensities 
and aspirations coming at the veritable watershed of European history. Thus, a new 
effort in “the taming of the Baroque” can be welcomed, at least guardedly. 

The present study announces just such a taming of the Baroque, conceived in 
terms of form as process. While the author’s heroic efforts in this respect transcend 
any mean, ordinary attempt of nailing jello to the wall, the enterprise to this reader 
partakes of a valiant and to some extent useful exercise in nailing down the 
unnailable. 

Preferring relevance to range, the author focuses principally on Michelangelo 
and Giordano Bruno as “‘the axial core” of this study with lesser but significant assists 
from Rembrandt, Vel4zquez, Montaigne, Cervantes, and Bacon. Michelangelo is seen 
as opening up form with his non-finito. Here emphasis falls upon the late works, 
specifically the Rondanini Pieta, the last unfinished Pieta being the most complete. 
For we are told that the Baroque has an innate hostility to the completed work, a 
hostility well attested in Michelangelo’s last achievements. For his part Bruno is 
seen aS committed to variety over uniformity and to a mutability inherent in the 
human condition as evinced in The Frenzies and The Expulsion. Similarly, Bruno is 
represented as avoiding any finite, completed formation. The spiral thrust of the 
twisted cornucopia, the incorporation of the temporal in the plastic as expressed in 
Bernini's Apollo and Daphne, best embody the Baroque line of beauty. 

In the comet-like trajectory of the author's mind through layers of literary and 
visual evidence, as it draws upon the entire tapestry of creative endeavor not just in 
the period of the Baroque but from Seneca to Valéry for support, contrast, and 
relevance, the mind of the ordinary reader often falters. The method seems to be like 
the pointilism of Seurat and to the mere historian caught in his pattern of what might 
be called linear think, there is the desire at times wistful, at times urgent, for a close, 
careful, contextual analysis of the development of any one of the many observations 
and perceptions which are being emitted amidst the Brunonian flights and vast 
Miltonic swoops. Indeed, this is all quite intoxicating. Sometimes it proves 
mystifying. For example, try savoring this one: “To the Baroque mind .. . at its best, 
art reconciled permanence with flux through forms that ‘presenced’ epiphanic 
encounters between capacity-to-be and being-in-act.” Get it? Well almost. Before the 
cognitive grip of the mind’s retention can close upon it, the insight may well have 
dissolved into a dew. 

Amidst the showers of intellectual sparks bursting from these pages there are 
occasional emissions that at least to the more pedestrian reader seem worthy of 
modest emphasis. The claim that doubt and persuasion turn into comerstones of the 
Baroque reminds one of the point made by T. K. Rabb in his Struggle for Stability: 
“the colossal scope, the vast canvas was part of an aesthetic that overwhelmed its 
subject, that silenced doubt by sheer magnificence and sweep” (58). The huge 
canvasses especially evident in the Medici cycle of paintings by Rubens would seem 
to want to obliterate by their very size all doubt and thus persuade. The twin fictions 
of Church and State are in the same period comerstones of another sort of which men 
need to be persuaded. And in another instance the author, pursuing the temporal sense 
of the Baroque, tosses forth the Baconian idea that man is now distinguished not by 
his power to remember, but to discover: it is reminiscent of Bacon’s distinction 


Reviews and Notes 371 


between a method that is “‘magistral” and one that is “initiative” (De augm. VI. 2). 

Coming as it does upon the assertion that the Renaissance humanists had a 
spatial rather than temporal view of reality, wherein their fixed distances and 
exemplary models contrast with Brunonian relativistic and conjunctive propensities, 
we cannot help but adynire the author’s bold effort to incorporate the temporal 
dimension into his weighing of the Baroque. The quest for perfection transformed 
into that of perfectibility fosters now improvement, a purely human potentiality. 
Reality as the order of becoming begins to emerge. 

The Comucopian Mind, indeed. There is something here for everyone. As with 
the bomb itself — first dreaded, then misunderstood — it may well come to be loved. 

John M. Headley, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Studi secenteschi. Vol. 30. Firenze: Olschki, 1989. Pp. 309. 


Nella prima parte del volume, densa di contributi, é da segnalare il saggio di Edoardo 
Taddeo, Le “Favole tratte dal vero” di Maiolino Bisaccioni (101-30). In esso si prende 
in esame la raccolta di novelle dell’avventuroso barone delle Bellezze, dal titolo 
L’albergo: particolare rilievo vien dato, nella prima sezione del lavoro, al “problema 
della cornice”, al suo allontanamento dall’archetipo boccacciano e alla metamorfosi 
della sua “funzione simbolico-paradigmatica” rispetto al modello medievale. 

La seconda parte dell’articolo @ dedicata all’analisi degli elementi che 
concorrono alla creazione della cosiddetta “‘poetica del vero bisaccioniana” non 
ultime le “infrazioni di consuetudini narrative consolidate” che maggiormente si 
approssimano alla “disorganicita e incongruenza del reale”. Segue 1’intervento di 
Mario Zanardi (131-47) dal titolo: Le “figure armoniche” e l'elocuzione barocca 
nell’ “Aristodemo” di Carlo de’ Dottori; esso @ incentrato sul rapporto fra alcune figure 
retoriche catalogate nel quarto capitolo del Cannocchiale aristotelico di Emanuele 
Tesauro e l’applicazione di tale “teoria compositiva” da parte del Dottori in quella che 
& stata definita “la pit bella tragedia del teatro barocco italiano”. 

Al Brusoni novelliere @ dedicato l’articolo di Francesco Piero Franchi, “La 
chitarra spagnuola”: storia di un plagio (169-81). In esso l’autore si occupa, in 
particolare, di una delle due novelle con le quali il Brusoni esordi nel 1641 nella 
miscellanea Gli aborti dell’ occasione, dimostrando come essa sia un “caso esemplare 
di plagio precoce” da un “originale spagnolo”. 

La terza parte della rivista, riservata alla Bibliografia e documentazioni, 
occupata da un documento di notevole importanza: ]’edizione critica di 125 poesie per 
la “maggior parte” inedite di Ciro di Pers ritrovate nella Biblioteca del Museo Correr 
di Venezia. Il curatore, Lorenzo Carpané, descrive il manoscritto, “sfuggito, fino ad 
oggi, a quasi tutti gli studiosi, 0 quantomeno semplicemente menzionato”, e ne 
verifica la paternita, confortato dalle prove addotte dall’illustre trascrittore, Giusto 
Fontanini. I] meritorio contributo del Carpané chiude questo volume di grande 
interesse che ancora una volta getta nuova luce su innumerevoli aspetti del variegato 
universo letterario secentesco. 

Olimpia Pelosi, SUNY at Albany 


372 Reviews and Notes 


Reed Way Dasenbrock. Imitating the Italians: Wyatt, Spenser, 
Synge, Pound, Joyce. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP. Pp. xvi + 
282. 


There is good imitation, and there is bad. We have been mulling over the frustrating 
ambiguity ever since Plato. Dasenbrock in Imitating the Italians tackles how all this 
has affected Renaissance and Modern texts. He does so in a style that is clear, elegant, 
witty, and wholly American. What are the imitative relationships between Dante, 
Petrarch, Machiavelli, Tasso, and Leopardi and English Renaissance and English and 
American Modernist poets? 

Perhaps in an even more imaginative way than Thomas Greene, the author 
focuses upon Petrarch’s Senecan remarks about imitatio as works of either apes or 
creative artists and perceives the positive side of mimésis, over against the negative, 
anxiety-ridden reading it is given generally by critics of bad conscience. Dasenbrock 
would rather divide English imitators of the Italians between sympathetic poets who 
take Italian society and art seriously and those, who in Said’s “Orientalist tradition,” 
judge themselves “against the Italians.” Interested, for the most part, not in a poet’s 
anxiety as much as a poet’s voice, the author claims, in the face of Bloom and 
postmodernist rhetoric, that texts are produced by people, that “to imitate is an 
intentional act just as to write is an intentional act,” and that “individual authors are 
agents responsible for their act” (11-12). This is old but good news. 

The book is divided into two parts, the first of which, “Some Versions of 
Petrarchism,” deals with imitation of the Italians by Wyatt, Spenser, and Synge; the 
second, “O Patria mia,” with Joyce and Pound. The concluding chapter deals directly 
with the “Search of the True Dantescan Voice.” 

Wyatt, he notes, translated texts from the hands of Petrarch and Serafino. 
Wyatt’s “translations” yield more than one might expect: “His poems are much more 
realistic and personal than Petrarch’s. Love’s presence as a mediating force is sharply 
reduced or disappears altogether” (26). Wyatt “emphasizes the effect of the loss on 
him rather than the loss itself’ (28). From imitation Wyatt created his own style, 
come down to us as one of blame or complaint. In the Amoretti, Spenser reveals a 
choice from Petrarch’s text that arises from time to time in Dasenbrock’s argument: 
the imitation of the Canzoniere in terms either of the in vita or the in morte. No 
English Renaissance Petrarchan finds sympathy with the latter, “because none shares 
Petrarch’s desire to transcend Petrarchan love” (39). Spenser is an exception. He is 
the first faithful ‘‘translator” of the Canzoniere’s ‘“‘second half.” He senses that love, 
not the Lady, is the problem. He redirects the will away from “egotistical conflict” 
and resolves his poetic conflict, not in death like Petrarch, but in marriage (I should 
say like Pontano). Spenser has transformed “the tradition in order to redeem its 
seriousness” (49). Synge, at the tum of this century, was also “closer in spirit to 
Petrarch than were most Renaissance Petrarchans” (89). His models are exclusively 
from the in morte, and his translations of the master were central to the eventual 
discovery of his poetic voice. His peasant diction demythologizes much. Laura 


Reviews and Notes x13 


becomes more human. 

The third and fourth chapters of part one were initially confusing to me until I 
marked in the “Acknowledgements” their debt to Stanley Fish. One chapter examines 
the “‘Squire’s Double Bind” in Books 3 and 4 of The Faerie Queen; the other, “Queen 
Elizabeth and the Politics of Petrarchism.” Both substantially ignore Spenser’s 
poetic voice for that of “the group,” the common focus of the politically correct 
gents and dames who are strung along by the de Mans and Fishes of this world. Two 
mottos govern The Faerie Queen’s Third Book: “Be bold, be bold” and “Be not too 
bold” (3.11.54), but Petrarchan love presents a sharper, conveniently 
deconstructionist paradox still: “Be bold, do not be bold” (54). Fish’s and supposedly 
Petrarch’s rhetorical oxymorons run wild, and we are confronted with the whine of 
“class disparity,” “pathological dominance,” “tan inequality of power and and 
inequality of desire,” and in what is one of the most hilarious misprints (I think!) ever 
to leap to the surface in the midst of current cant, our author speaks of Paridell’s 
“deduction” of Hellenore in Book 3, rather than her “seduction” (63). 

But Dasenbrock is aware of the boundaries of our current sophistic debates. He 
knows his argument works only if Books 3 and 4 somehow make a “shift in attention 
from individuals to the relationships in which individuals are caught” (58). The real 
problem in all of this, as he argues in chapter four, is Queen Elizabeth — the First — 
her “virginity,” and the Protestant ethic of Marriage. Petrarch as a Catholic model 
became highly problematic, and from Spenser’s struggle with it the question of 
imitating Italian poets began to fall decisively into Said’s “Orientalizing” camp. 

In part two, Dasenbrock returns to more solid critical ground and some highly 
instructive insights into politics and the poet. His main Modernitsts are Pound and 
Joyce. “Modernist imitation” is the key issue, and once again it falls into camps of 
either the apes or the creative artists. While English writers stick to the 
“Orientalizing” point of view, Irish and American ones broke away from such a 
“cultural problematic” (102). For Pound and Joyce the supreme Italian figure was 
Dante, but in different ways and with a startling different result. Dasenbrock’s work 
on Pound’s failed fascist agenda is top drawer. Pound’s translations of Cavalcanti 
gave that poet a prominence in English-speaking culture. Ostensibly thrown in the 
face of “fat Frankie” (read “‘Petrarch”), Cavalcanti, along with Dante, gave Pound the 
models for a sense of “something new.” But Pound, ironically, shared with Petrarch 
scholarly, imitative, and, eventually, poetic interests. Pound, however, moved on to 
Leopardi and canonized him in translation. The Canzoni (1911) “is perhaps the most 
extreme example of Pound’s attempt to ’make it new’ by making it old... .” (114). 

A close study of Leopardi’s “Sopra il Ritratto di una bella donna” reveals a trait 
that is pure Pound: “Leopardi moves toward a ritratto of the dead woman, Pound toward 
a celebration of her image, her monument . . . the recuperative powers of art, of 
images, of artistic representation that was one of Pound’s central themes” (124). Such 
a position signals the poet’s eventual fascist or “Machiavellian” moment. Italy 
becomes a mirror for America, and from 1910-1915 Pound sought an American 
risorgimento. His source? American robber barons, fat cats, and Jefferson. Pound, 
however, made no critique of power. He, like Petrarch, Machiavelli, and other Italian 
humanists, courted the powerful to guide that power. He shifted from art to social 
structures, but eventually became entangled in “the political program of classicizing 
humanism” (154). One could argue the same problem for Petrarch. Both poets would 


2 «66 


374 Reviews and Notes 

have us politically ape the “same.” Making excellent use of Pound’s 
Malatesta/Jefferson/Mussolini parallel and Pocock’s The Machiavellian Moment, our 
author traces the radical reversal of Pound’s bias toward action against an “existing 
malign order” to Adam’s, not Jefferson’s, focus on the institutions of power. The 
rest, one might say, is history. In imitative mirrors of “dizzying complexity,” 
Mussolini is to imitate Jefferson and Adams, and America is to “take Mussolini as its 
model. America should imitate the Italians, who should imitate the early Americans, 
who were in any case imitating the Italians of the Renaissance” (169). Dasenbrock 
claims that these are not “merely the ravings of a madman” (170). I am not so sure. 

In the end, the author regards the imitator-fascist Pound as the last Ghibelline 
(chapter 9). And here, of course, we return to Dante, not of the Commedia, but of the 
De Monarchia. Dasenbrock draws interesting and compelling parallels, especially 
from the fact that Dante, like Pound, acted upon his own political theory. Pound’s 
“humanist theory” of imitation as replication was a disaster. He, like Dante, died an 
outcast. 

But what of Joyce? We know him as a much more successful author, and 
Dasenbrock does much to tell us why. Joyce was always interested in Dante as an epic 
and encyclopaedic poet, not as one descended from a lyric tradition. Joyce was no 
“Orientalizer.” Moreover, he knew a great deal about Vico, whose texts affected 
Ulysses, as well as Finnegans Wake. Vico’s theory of epic “gave Joyce a way of 
reading Homer and Dante (and reading them together) that is absolutely crucial for the 
design of the [latter]” (130-31). Joyce saw the reason why Vico sought the “true 
Homer.” It had to do with an epic and social ricorso, and Joyce revels in it in the 
“Cyclops” episode of Ulysses. Unlike Lady Gregory, Yeats, Padraic Pearse, and 
George Moore, Joyce posits no positive apes. Through Vico, Joyce always kept 
Dante as an epic poet among others (rather much Dante’s view of himself in Limbo, I 
should say.) The great Italian master never became a totalitarian model. 

In probably the most delightful chapter in the book (chapter 10), Dasenbrock 
addresses “Understanding Modernist Imitation: Mozart contra Wagner in Ulysses.” 
Musical taste in Joyce’s great epic reveals the difference between good and bad 
imitation and, ultimately, between Joyce, the ironic master of personal freedom, and 
Pound, the fascist institutionalizer. Joyce, a man who almost turned to a career as a 
singer, thought highly of Mozart and Italian opera. He loathed Wagner. In Eliot’s 
review of Ulysses, there appears the phrase “mythical method.” What is in this heady 
idea? Dasenbrock brilliantly reduces it to the “operatic method,” the “normal use of 
opera arias by Dubliners” in the novel (196). Bloom’s love of Mozart reflects the 
secret of the epic novel: comedy, the theater, irony, and multiple roles. There Joyce, 
the creative artist, can ply his trade on the lines of Petrarch’s sense of creative 
imitation. 

So bad Modernist imitation must be characterized by its dangerous political 
connotations. A comment that surfaces from time to time in the later portions of 
Dasenbrock’s text deals with the fact that, although the imitating apes still run 
rampant in the twentieth century, we can thank God — and perhaps ourselves — that 
their political programs have failed. The author concludes his work with the 
twentieth-century’s search for creative imitations of Dante and, en passant, titillates 
the reader with what had better be his next study: Eliot’s Dantescan voice. Dante is a 
model both of a total vision of life and of architectonic construction. Modernists 


Reviews and Notes 375 


imitate one or the other. Pound admired Dante’s divine vision; Joyce, the “intricacies 
of Dante’s forms” — especially words (211). Ideologically Dante was for him a 
blank. Pound wanted Dante’s epic design and the judgment carried by that design. 
This Joyce himself panned in Pound. Besides, no such order could be imposed upon a 
disordered modern world. Pound never could write his Paradiso. Canto 116 is a 
confession of that failure. Had he only returned to his earlier interest in the lyric 
trecento. Joyce steered an Aristotelian mean. He imitated, but transformed, Dante. “In 
terms of creative imitation, this means he was the best imitator of all” (219). 

Dasenbrock appends “Pound’s Map of Italian Literature for Mussolini” and ends 
his work with a delicious swipe at the fascist de Man, who after a lecture on Italian 
culture in Brussels in 1941, could claim that “dans le climat fasciste, une trés belle et 
originale poésie a pu s’épanouir.” 

Imitating the Italians is a good book, but more importantly it is a very 
encouraging one. If you take a glance at Dasenbrock’s own bibliography (262), you 
see that he, as many of his generation, has been drawn to the flame of the aping rant 
and cant of deconstruction, with all its totalitarian, sadly failed rhetoric of the 
superficial. On the other hand, Dasenbrock’s praise of Giuseppe Mazzotta, Charles 
Singleton, his “crazy Aunt Caroline,” and a multitude of libraries tends to show that, 
at last, the author has come to possess his own voice. His book is a sign of a critical 
ricorso: the poet’s individual voice and text first, politics second. In his anti- 
deconstructionist stand, Dasenbrock reaffirms that voice in the poet, by the poet, 
and, ultimately, for us. 

Raymond Adolph Prier, Durham, North Carolina 


Enrico Malato. Lo fedele consiglio de la ragione. Studi e ricerche di 
letteratura italiana. Roma: Salerno Editrice, 1989. Pp. 581. 


Studioso e operatore di cultura impegnato in un ampio scenario di aree disciplinari, 
autore di pregevoli edizioni di testi napoletani del Seicento (bastera qui ricordare 
l’edizione con traduzione della Posilecheata di P. Sarnelli del 1963 e quella delle 
Opere poetiche di Giulio Cesare Cortese del 1967), Enrico Malato propone in questo 
volume un itinerario attraverso alcune esperienze fondamentali della sua fervida 
attivita di critico e storico oltreché filologo, raccogliendo in sezioni distinte saggi di 
vario taglio dedicati rispettivamente a Dante, le origini della novella e il teatro 
comico tardocinquecentesco. 

Chi percorre questi studi, in parte gia editi, facilmente comprendera la traccia che 
li connette: 1’analisi spassionata dei fatti culturali, rigidamente fondata nelle ragioni 
della filologia e della storia; l’indefettibile rispetto dell’esigenza dell’informazione 
testuale piena e specifica che riconduce alla lezione del Bédier, significativamente 
esplicitata nella chiusura del saggio trascritto in appendice al volume (‘“Filologia e 
critica”, pp. 521-545) ma presente anche nella premessa (9). La prospettiva a cui si 
allude nel titolo — il motto dantesco tratto dalla Vita nuova — da un’ulteriore 
indicazione di un modo di atteggiarsi del critico di fronte al testo. Emerge dunque, 
programmaticamente, come carattere di omogeneita, un tipo di lettura che intreccia 
dato storico e rilievo stilistico “in cui la fedelta della (e alla) ragione intesa come 
impegno nell’uso della ragione, nel senso di fermezza e assiduita nell’essere 


376 Reviews and Notes 


ragionevole — sia il viatico primario e sicuro alla intelligenza dello stesso testo” 
(10). 

Il primo saggio della sezione dantesca, finora inedito, contiene una 
“investigazione” innovativa del canto [III dell’/nferno 17-65). Contestando le 
riduzioni del Sapegno, per cui il canto era una delle prime, ancora imperfette, prove 
del poeta inesperto, il Malato ne rivendica la straordinaria importanza nel quadro 
complessivo non soltanto dell’/nferno, ma dell’intera Commedia “per la ricchezza e 
la varieta dei motivi, delle connessioni letterarie, delle movenze stilistiche, delle 
implicazioni dottrinali e teologiche che espone, non meno che per la sua funzione 
propedeutica alla rappresentazione del primo dei regni oltremondani” (22). Nel 
saggio seguente (66-125), anch’esso di stesura recente, il Malato propone un’attenta 
rivisitazione di quello che giustamente definisce il pit letto, indagato, interpretato 
canto della Commedia, il V dell’Inferno. Nonostante il troppo modesto intento 
dichiarato di separare il grano dal loglio nelle innumerevoli proposte interpretative 
precedenti (67), lo studio riesce a offrire un contributo originale, specialmente per la 
preminente rilevanza del De amore di Andrea Cappellano e della tipologia d’amore che 
giustifica e teorizza la “devianza” dei peccatori Paolo e Francesca. 

Una rilettura impegnata, questa del canto V, che spazia sintomaticamente nella 
vasta, esaustiva esplorazione, quasi una monografia in sé (126-227), ammirevole per 
ricchezza d’informazione e lucidita d’esposizione, del percorso compiuto dalla 
formula dell’amore cortese dalle teorizzazioni del Cappellano fino a Dante, passando 
attraverso la scuola siciliana, Guinizelli e Cavalcanti, nel campo della filosofia e 
della teologia ma bensi del lessico. Né questo meraviglia, considerando 
l’orientamento del Malato, attento a non considerare in astratto ]’attivita letteraria 
ma anzi a collegarla strettamente agli ambienti storici ed istituti retorici e stilistici. E 
da sottolineare infatti 1’attenzione prestata nella sezione dantesca, la pil’ ampia del 
volume, alla vexata. quaestio del testo critico della Commedia (273-317) e all’analisi 
di varie chiose testuali (228-272). 

Nella seconda parte del volume (321-372) é riprodotta la relazione introduttiva al 
convegno internazionale di Caprarola svoltosi nel settembre 1988 sul tema “La 
novella italiana”, organizzato dalla rivista “Filologia e critica”, sotto gli auspici 
dell’Universita di Roma “La Sapienza” e dell’Universita della Tuscia con il 
coordinamento dello stesso autore, direttore della benemerita collana “I novellieri 
italiani”. Per il Malato il passaggio dalla narratio brevis alla novella si compie 
soprattutto nell’Italia del Trecento. Nel suo delinearsi come genere letterario, la 
novella, trascurando i temi della letteratura aulica e privilegiando il realismo e i valori 
pratici delle classi subalterne, si presenta come un’alternativa borghese alla 
tradizione cortese. I] Boccaccio é lo scrittore che interpreta l’esigenze immaginative 
ed espressive della societa mercantile in ascesa, costruendo un modello narrativo che 
prevarra fin oltre la meta del Seicento. Per chiarire il senso della diversita d’indirizzo 
fra l’opera del Boccaccio e quelle precedenti (in particolare, il Novellino) lo studioso 
si diffonde in una lucida analisi dei tratti fondamentali della prosa italiana nel Due e 
Trecento (329-342). Fatto il punto della cultura del racconto preboccacciano 
(improntato alla brevitas, fondato sull’auctoritas della fonte-veritas-exemplum, 
connotato dalla fluidita del testo che corre verso l’epilogo, dalla poverta di elementi 
ambientali e formali, dalla marginalita e scarsa circolazione del testo), lo studioso 
enuclea i caratteri della novella: ricerca qualitativa, coerenza narrativa; caso 


Reviews and Notes 377 


raccontato eccezionale ma realistico; narrazione distesa, dimensione colloquiale, 
gusto del motto pungente e della battuta brillante. La novella si differenzia dalla 
narrazione del fatto storico; si attribuisce il ruolo di evasione da situazioni di 
sofferenza, ruolo al quale anzitutto si richiama l’impostazione della cornice, 
espressione della societa borghese; esce dalla marginalita e svolge una sua funzione 
sociale di mezzo di contatto e di comunicazione. Questo processo storico della 
novellistica culmina per il Malato nel Cinquecento quando il Decameron, sulla base 
dell’autorita del Bembo, assurge a modello stilistico e linguistico del genere 
narrativo; e quando avvengono scambi tra cultura ufficiale e cultura popolare, fra 
cultura italiana e straniera con la diffusione e il successo europeo della novella. 

Nucleo importante del volume é il gruppo di articoli, scritti fra il 1976 e il 1989, 
sulla questione molto complessa dell’attribuzione a Torquato Tasso della commedia 
gli Intrichi d'amore (373-517). Della commedia, rappresentata per la prima volta 
dagli Accademici di Caprarola nel 1598 e stampata a Viterbo nel 1603-1604, si era 
parlato negli anni cinquanta e sessanta, particolarmente a proposito delle 
rappresentazioni all’Olimpico di Vicenza (1951) e al Valle di Roma (1952), a Ferrara 
e altrove (1968), ma anche dell’edizione procurata da F. Pedrina (Milano: L. 
Trevisini, 1953) e di un primo intervento del Malato, comparso nella Nuova 
Antologia, 96 (1961): 487-516. Se n’é tornato a parlare a motivo della nuova, tanto 
pit accurata edizione critica della commedia curata dalla stesso Malato nel 1976. 
Nell’ampia introduzione al testo, riprodotta ora nel volume in esame (375-444), lo 
studioso ribadisce con attenzione e ricchezza di argomentazioni le sue ragioni a 
favore della paternita del Tasso, da riconoscersi con prove esterne e un’analisi, assai 
circostanziata, di situazioni analoghe e di echi dello stile del Tasso maggiore nel 
testo. 

Il dibattito sull’attribuzione tassiana, controversa attraverso i secoli (gia i primi 
due famosi biografi del poeta, il Manso e il Serassi, la negarono) viene presentato 
attraverso il filtro delle ricezioni del saggio del 1976. Si registrano e discutono qui 
alcuni giudizi stralciati da varie recensioni uscite fra il 1976 e il 1978 pro o contro la 
patemnita del Tasso (G. Getto, G. Barberi Squarotti, S. Nigro, M. Rak, M. Dardano, N. 
Borsellino, G. Manganelli, fra gli altri), ma soprattutto con la duplice serie di 
opposizioni, Malato-Ettore Bonora (che propende per l’anonimato) e Malato- 
Pasquale Stoppelli (che attribuisce gli Jntrichi al romano Cristoforo Castelletti). A 
parte i rilievi che una conoscenza specialistica dei problemi pud avere autorizzati ci 
sembra che la grande mole di lavoro dedicato dal Malato a quest’opera conservi 
innegabili titoli di merito. Sulla base dei frequenti riferimenti alla critica e alla storia 
delle interpretazioni, e nello sforzo d’illustrare i nodi delle discussioni intorno ad 
alcuni nuclei e luoghi della commedia, l’esplorazione del teatro comico tardo 
cinquecentesco, ancora poco frequentato, ne risulta sostanzialmente ampliata ed 
approfondita. 

Copiose sono le note ai singoli contributi radunati nel volume, a convalida della 
ricchezza d’informazione e dell’esigenza della documentazione proprie dell’autore. 
L’esposizione é molto chiara, come si addice a lavori che intendono presentare a serio 
livello scientifico i risultati delle indagini svolte. Chiudono l’elegante volume utili 
indici delle opere citate e dei nomi propri. E doveroso infatti rimarcare l’accuratezza 
tipografica del prodotto, ben oltre i consueti standard editoriali. 

Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 


378 Reviews and Notes 


Albert N. Mancini. I “capitoli” letterari di Francesco Bolognetti: 
tempi e modi della letteratura epica fra l’Ariosto e il Tasso. Studi e 
testi di Letteratura Italiana: Collana diretta da Mario Santoro, 11. 
Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1989. Pp. 213. 


Francesco Bolognetti (c. 1510-1574) @ un classico esempio di letterato della 
Controriforma, sul quale richiamd opportunamente |’attenzione Remo Ceserani in una 
informatissima voce del Dizionario biografico degli italiani, 11 (1969), pp. 320- 
323. La sua appartenenza a una cospicua famiglia di Bologna gli garanti la possibilita 
di mantenere contatti con le personalita politiche, religiose e letterarie pit influenti 
del proprio tempo. Fra le sue conoscenze spiccano principi della Chiesa (come i 
cardinali Alessandro Farnese o Gabriele Paleotti), pontefici (come Pio IV o Gregorio 
XIII, del quale era parente) e letterati illustri (come il Casa, il Caro, lo Speroni o 
Bernardo Tasso). Ebbe una carriera politica di tutto rispetto (fu senatore e 
gonfaloniere di giustizia), ma le cariche pubbliche non gli impedirono di dedicarsi 
alla poesia, di cui coltivd soprattutto il genere epico-cavalleresco. La sua opera di 
maggior impegno é il Costante (poema ispirato soprattutto dalla Historia Augusta) 
che vide la luce in otto libri nel 1565 e in sedici libri nel 1566. Sebbene la versione 
pit ampia fosse ristampata nel 1654 e nel 1841, nessun editore si @ curato di 
pubblicare altri quattro libri (XVII-XX) che Bolognetti lascid inediti, evidentemente 
perché rimase alquanto deluso dai giudizi dei contemporanei. Nella introduzione al 
presente volume (7-14), Mancini promette di darne una edizione critica, che potrebbe 
aiutarci ad intendere meglio la evoluzione del genere epico-cavalleresco nel 
Cinquecento. Ci auguriamo che questa impresa venga portata felicemente a termine. 
Senza dubbio, nessuno potrebbe farlo meglio di Mancini che da vari anni dedica la sua 
ben nota acribia filologica a Bolognetti, come risulta da alcuni saggi non compresi 
nel volume in oggetto, quali Funzione e tattica del meraviglioso nel Costante di 
Francesco Bolognetti, uscito nella miscellanea Studies in the Italian Renaissance: 
Essays in Memory of Arnolfo B. Ferruolo, a cura di G. P. Biasin, A. N. Mancini e N. 
J. Perella (Napoli: Societa Editrice Napoletana, 1985), pp.181-199, o Dal romanzo 
all’ epopea agiografica nell'eta della Controriforma, “Rivista di Studi Italiani”, 3 
(1985): 11-43. 

In attesa di leggere i canti inediti del Costante per farci un’idea pit adeguata del 
poema, accontentiamoci di conoscere un altro aspetto dell’opera poetica di 
Bolognetti: i suoi “capitoli”, cui & appunto dedicata l’ultima fatica di Mancini. Si 
tratta di composizioni poetiche in terzine, in larga misura inedite, le quali presentano 
un carattere prevalentemente autobiografico e pertanto consentono una pil precisa 
"ricostruzione dell’esperienza vitale e artistica del Bolognetti” e una sua “pil 
completa collocazione negli ambienti culturali in cui visse ed operd” (26), come 
giustamente asserisce Mancini nel primo capitolo (15-34). Né si deve dimenticare 
che, sebbene Bolognetti sia un modesto verseggiatore, la sua vicenda intellettuale é 
degna di attenzione, perché giova ad illuminare le ragioni del travaglio 
controriformistico intono al poema eroico. I] volume di Mancini, infatti, é un 


Reviews and Notes 379 


contributo originale che ci permette di precisare meglio i termini del “problema delle 
discussioni teoriche e dei tentativi sperimentali di pieno Cinquecento che 
approderanno poi . . . al complesso progetto tassiano della Gerusalemme” (10). 

Dato che Bolognetti scrisse una cinquantina di “capitoli”, Mancini ha dovuto 
fare una cernita molto rigorosa per concentrare la sua ricerca su cinque componimenti 
particolarmente significativi, dedicati ad Annibal Caro, a Sperone Speroni, ad 
Alberico Longo Salentino, al Giraldi Cinzio e al Pigna. Questi testi sono ampiamente 
illustrati nei capitoli II-VI (35-170) che costituiscono il nucleo pit consistente del 
volume in oggetto. Ciascun “capitolo” @ valutato attentamente, sia dal punto di vista 
della forma che da quello del contenuto, in ampie introduzioni di carattere critico- 
filologico. Per esempio, Mancini dimostra che il componimento dedicato al Caro 
(inedito) “mostra una pil pronta e abile appropriazione da parte del Bolognetti della 
lezione descrittiva e sentimentale del genere, il capitolo-epistola, nel quale 
s’inserisce; un genere ormai affermato e sicuro dopo le esperienze fondamentali, la 
lezione del Machiavelli e dell’ Ariosto, con una tematica collaudata e convenzioni di 
racconto saldamente accettate” (35-36). Contrariamente a quanto accade a studiosi 
meno scaltriti, Mancini non si lascia prendere la mano dal suo autore, ed afferma con 
obbiettiva severita che “i risultati artistici non sono certo grandi”, in quanto “il 
Bolognetti satirico non é un inventore di estrosa aneddotica personale” e tutt’al pit 
offre “qua e 14 qualche finezza e in genere un rilievo psicologico nuovo rispetto alle 
invenzioni esterne di tanti altri suoi capitoli” (36). Ma l’autore riesce, attraverso una 
visione ravvicinata del contesto culturale del “capitolo” al Caro, in cui tanto spazio é 
dedicato al Costante, a farci toccare con mano i termini della discussione 
cinquecentesca sul poema eroico. Alla luce del “capitolo” al Caro, “una testimonianza 
programmatica”, relativa agli “elementi che l’attivita presente e successiva del poeta 
si propone di sviluppare” (48), il Costante risulta un omaggio alla voga 
antiaristotelica della molteplicita di azioni, intesa come specchio della verita storica, 
e alla esigenza del meraviglioso, perseguito sul piano della trama piuttosto che su 
quello dello stile. 

In questo modo, Mancini ci permette di vedere, al di 14 dei problemi personali di 
uno scrittore mediocre come Bolognetti, “gli orizzonti, la formazione, la fisionomia 
stessa dei poeti epici fra 1’Ariosto e il Tasso” (49). Questo discorso vale anche per 
altri “capitoli”, a cominciare da quello allo Speroni, “una risposta alle critiche e alle 
censure gia formulate sul Costante”, in cui il lettore si ritrova “nel giro di idee che 
ricorrono con significativa insistenza nelle prefazioni dei tentativi post-ariosteschi 
di poema epico e cavalleresco: la disponibilita a sollecitazioni molteplici, quasi- 
sperimentale del poema offerto ai lettori; la perfettibilita del testo visto come work in 
progress o fascio di redazioni diverse, tutte ugualmente legittime; la provvisorieta 
delle varie stesure o edizioni dello stesso poema rispetto ad un modello di opus 
maximum. ipotizzato dall’autore" (80). Altrettanto importanti sono le indicazioni che 
Mancini ricava dal “‘capitolo” al Giraldi Cinzio, in cui si coglie “la constatazione del 
fallimento degli esperimenti neoclassici del Trissino e dell’Alamanni che 
proponevano un poema epico rigidamente modellato sullo schema omerico- 
virgiliano e il riconoscimento del declino del modello ariostesco del poema 
cavalleresco non pit rispondente ai gusti dei competenti e alle istanze ideologiche 
tardo-cinquecentesche” (135). 

Di fronte a tanta ricchezza di spunti critici e di dati filologici, sarebbe di cattivo 


380 Reviews and Notes 


gusto dare troppo peso ad alcune piccole incongruenze, dovute a eccessivo scrupolo di 
esattezza. Mi riferisco alle note esplicative che accompagnano i testi dei cinque 
“capitoli”, su cui si @ concentrato Mancini. Questi vengono dati in trascrizione 
diplomatica, con rispetto assoluto della grafia cinquecentesca. Il che appare 
perfettamente legittimo, trattandosi di un libro per specialisti, come dimostra anche 
l’apparato delle varianti. Ma allora, a prescindere da un refuso come “Schemo di forze” 
(67, v. 22) che ovviamente va corretto in “Scemo di forze”, non era il caso di spiegare 
che “a questa etade” significa “Nella nostra epoca” (66, n. 2), “Phebo” sta per 
“Apollo, dio della luce, di qui l’epiteto di Febo e cioé il luminoso" (67, n. 3), 
“Hippocrene” @ una “Fontana, sacra alle muse, situata sul monte Elicona” (67, n. 4), 
ed “Hesperia” equivale a “Italia da Espero che, perseguitato dal fratello Atlante, fuggi 
in Italia” (107, n. 33). Pienamente giustificate sono invece le note riguardanti 
personaggi poco noti, come “Camillo Paleotti, parente del Bolognetti da parte 
materna” (67, n. 5) o allusioni poco chiare, come quella al Costante dei vv. 11-12 del 
“capitolo” al Caro: “Un certo parto mio, tanto imperfetto,/ Ch’aborto con ragion pud 
dirsi, 0 mostro” (67). 

Si tratta di difetti minimi che non debbono farci dimenticare i grandi meriti del 
libro di Mancini, frutto di uno scavo in profondita nel terreno poco frequentato su cui 
@ sorto l’edificio della poesia eroica tassiana. I] pregio del volume é accresciuto dalla 
ricca appendice documentaria (171-206), in cui figura l’inedita lettera di Bolognetti a 
Domenico Venier in data 25 gennaio1568, trascritta da un codice della Biblioteca 
Corsiniana di Roma, e da un indice dei nomi. 

Gustavo Costa, University of California, Berkeley 


Cesare De Leonardis. II finto incanto. Testo critico, introduzione e 
note di Olimpia Pelosi. Atripalda Edizioni WM, 1988. Pp. 248. 
Cesare De Leonardis. II re superbo. Testo critico, introduzione e 
note a cura di Olimpia Pelosi. Pompei: Le Pleiadi, 1987. Pp. 152. 


“Tl finto incanto di Cesare De Leonardis @ una tra le innumerevoli opere minori, per la 
maggior parte dimenticate o messe in ombra dalla critica, che fiorirono a Napoli e nei 
suoi immediati o pit lontani dintomni nella seconda meta del secolo decimosettimo. . . 
. Fu questa l’epoca dei cosiddetti ‘drammi italo-spagnuoli’; sulla scorta di Lope de 
Vega e di Calderén de la Barca i commediografi meridionali — invertendo i termini del 
secolo precedente — si dettero con foga ‘alle traduzioni, alle imitazioni, ai 
rifacimenti delle commedie spagnuole di capa y espada’” (7). Esordisce cosi, nella 
Premessa all’edizione, Olimpia Pelosi. E gia il restauro del Finto incanto, come 
quello parallelo del Re superbo che é l’unica altra opera del De Leonardis andata a 
stampa, offre motivi di notevole interesse: non solo agli specialisti, ma a tutti coloro 
che vogliano darsi ragione di secoli di mancata attenzione critica per la letteratura del 
Seicento. La difficile situazione in cui si trova oggi sia il ricercatore che 
l’insegnante, in questo ambito, @ determinata dalla scarsita di testi in edizione 
moderna. Vero é che da alcuni anni a questa parte fervono nuove ricerche tendenti a 
colmare il vuoto, ma ]’operazione di recupero ha finora privilegiato la prima parte del 
secolo e soprattutto la poesia. 


Reviews and Notes 381 


Cesare De Leonardis (1633-1686) nasce otto anni dopo la pubblicazione 
dell’Adone di Marino ed @ attivo nel periodo della seconda ondata del barocco 
meridionale, da Marzio Pieri indicata nelle esperienze, liriche soprattutto, di 
Giuseppe Artale, Antonio Muscettola e Giacomo Lubrano. Sul fronte del teatro il 
lavoro @ ancora tutto da fare; tra le esplorazioni pid’ recenti non conosco altro se non 
una Guerra tra vivi e morti. Tragedia a lieto fine dell’ Artale, tratta dall’Enciclopedia 
poetica del 1679 ed edita da Anna Maria Razzoli Roio (Parma: Facolta di Lettere e 
Filosofia, Istituto di Filologia Moderna, 1990). C’é bisogno di puntare innanzi tutto 
sui testi per stabilire attraverso i loro rapporti, man mano pit chiari, ipotesi di lavoro 
globalizzanti. Il caso De Leonardis @ dalla Pelosi giustamente posto a emblema del 
profondo influsso spagnolo sentito nel teatro napoletano, ma senza pretese di totale 
rappresentativita: “Il problema @ poderoso e delicato. C’é bisogno di affrontarlo da 
diverse angolazioni, di scendere nell’intricato sottobosco che forma ]’humus in cui 
questi rapporti [tra Spagna e Italia], dapprima sotterranei, poi sempre pil articolati e 
prepotenti, si svilupparono” (8). 

La rara acribia della curatrice si rivela nel fatto che questo Finto incanto 
costituisce la seconda edizione da lei curata della stessa commedia (prima ed. Salerno: 
Palladio, 1984), resasi opportuna dopo il ritrovamento dell’originale spagnolo, El 
Hechizo Imaginado, di Juan de Zabaleta (1610-1670), riportato in appendice in copia 
anastatica. La commedia spagnola fu messa in scena a Madrid nel 1663, mentre la 
stampa napoletana del rifacimento del De Leonardis é datata 1674; le date sono tanto 
prossime da assicurare uno stretto collegamento culturale. Dal confronto dei testi, in 
generale, @ emerso che “JI finto incanto appare nel suo snodarsi meno cupa e compatta 
della commedia spagnola; e cid a causa della pit brillante vis comica del De 
Leonardis, della lievita di alcune trovate che sdrammatizzano molti personaggi 
dell’opera e dell’uso di diverse lingue e propriamente: del volgare (in maggior parte), 
del dialetto napoletano e qualche volta dello spagnolo” (20). In particolare, la 
curatrice ha notato nella versione italiana la presenza del prologo in musica, assente 
nello spagnolo, e poi una vistosa modifica tra i personaggi: una “villana”, Tonella, 
diventa nel De Leonardis il contadino Antuono, nel quale si concentra praticamente la 
comicita della commedia. L’intricatissima trama, sviluppata in tre atti secondo i 
canoni della riforma di Lope, si conclude con uno scioglimento (in cui viene svelato 
“il finto incanto” del titolo) che porta a un triplice matrimonio. 

Per quel che riguarda /I re superbo, di cui si conoscono due stampe napoletane 
(1691 e 1720), si tratta di “un’opera sacra per ideazione della quale il De Leonardis 
prende spunto da un exemplum superbiae riportato da Sant’Antonino nella sua 
Summa” (10). L’influsso spagnolo é riconosciuto in un lavoro di Lope de Vega, El 
triunfo de la humiltad y soberbia vencida. Non si pud parlare di traduzione o di 
rifacimento in questo caso, e forse neanche di fonte diretta, ma ]’identita del tema e la 
struttura dell’opera, oltre naturalmente all’ammirazione trasparente del De Leonardis 
per il drammaturgo spagnolo, mettono bene in luce quei rapporti di dipendenza di cui 
sopra si diceva. La trama @ incentrata su un atto di superbia di un re, di un paese 
immaginario, che rifiuta l’autorita di Dio sopra di lui. Dopo un’opportuna “stagione 
in inferno” (un angelo sceso dal Cielo fa si che egli diventi l’ultimo del reame) il 
monarca pentito é riportato sul trono. Come nel Finto incanto abbiamo qui numerosi 
attori, intrecci vari e una mistura di linguaggi particolarmente significativa 
soprattutto a opera di personaggi “‘bassi” (il buffone di corte Moscone e il servo 


382 Reviews and Notes 


Ciccuzzo). 
La commistione di stili non @ che una delle pid evidenti caratteristiche retoriche 
di questi lavori teatrali (la cosa @ stata evidenziata anche dalla Razzoli Roio per 
l’Artale) che, posti in rapporto alle grandi innovazioni di poetica dell’inizio del 
secolo, ne rappresentano la normalizzazione (cfr. per esempio, Riccardo Scrivano, 
Canto 5, ‘La tragedia’. Amplificazione per ripetizione, in Lectura Marini. L’Adone 
letto e commentato, a c. di F. Guardiani. Ottawa, Dovehouse, 1989). Soltanto 
riconoscendo che ormai la poetica degli eccessi é diventata routine, si pud veramente 
intendere la novita della restaurazione della insorgente Arcadia. 
Francesco Guardiani, University of Toronto 


Maria-Luisa Minio-Paluello. La “fusta dei matti” Firenze San 
Giovanni 1514: una barca di folli alla ricerca del metodo nella 
follia, e umori ed emulazioni fra Firenze, Roma e Venezia, 
primavera 1514. Introduzione di Franco Cardini. Quadrangolo, 3. 
Firenze: Franco Cesati, 1990. Pp. 197. 


Present-day scholars are usually interested in one of two very different types of 
Renaissance feste: either state ceremonies and officially staged pageantry, such as 
triumphal entries, or popular, “unofficial” manifestations like carnivals, and the 
Feast of Fools. Students of neo-classical themes, emblems, and iconography, along 
with political historians, have found dense material in literary and artistic efforts to 
portray the majesty of the state on the first sort of occasions, while the rarer records 
of the second sort of celebration are particularly dear to social historians and 
folklorists. The latter kind of festa, which has flourished, or at least been tolerated, in 
many kinds of societies, served as a sort of safety valve for public discontent. It was 
an occasion when the world was temporarily tumed upside down (as the Roman 
Saturnalia, or the medieval Feast of Fools, or Renaissance carnival) and when 
unpalatable, seditious truths could be uttered under the cover of folly. The potential 
for subversion of the established order was always present, despite official tolerance. 
The festa studied in this little volume is, however, not a genuine popular, safety- 
valve kind of celebration, despite the presence of fools, but represents instead an 
extremely curious hybrid of the popular with the official. It was, argues the author, 
the pro-Medici Signoria of Florence who planned the manifestation and charged the 
fools with a scandalous message. San Giovanni was, of course, the feast of Florence's 
patron, analogous to St. Mark's Day in Venice, and the celebration of it had long had 
civic content. Since the Middle Ages, for example, the subject cities of Florence such 
as Arezzo and Pistoia had brought large, elaborately formed cere to the Baptistry as 
symbols of tribute and allegiance. Lorenzo il Magnifico had also used San Giovanni 
(and other holidays) for a tasteful presentation of personal propaganda (his favorite 
theme being that of a return of the classical Golden Age). Now the Medici were back 
in Florence (since September, 1512), and the main manifestation of the 1514 San 
Giovanni was to be an elegant, classicizing “Trionfo di Camillo” which celebrated 
the restoration of the family to power. Two days before the feast proper, however, a 
rather inconsonant chariot designed as a ship of fools was pulled through the streets 
of the city by a pair of oxen. The strange apparato had been commissioned by the 


Reviews and Notes 383 


Signoria, who, in what seems to us a cruel and tasteless touch, had populated the ship 
not merely with actors but with at least two genuine Florentine pazzi or scempioni: 
Carafulla da Vespignano and Giovanni Tancredi. “Devils” walked alongside the 
chariot and sometimes kidnapped spectators, who had to pay a taglia to avoid being 
put aboard ship with the fools. Devils and fools, particularly together, carry a heavy 
symbolism: “Sia il folle, sia il diavolo, sono elementi del linguaggio d’immagini e di 
concetti con cui si cerca di esprimere cid che si crede d’intravvedere” (70). 

The author tries with some success to find Florentine precedents for the theme of 
this chariot, which seems more appropriate for carnival than for Saint John’s Day and 
which has no parallels in well-known feste of the time. Giovanni Villani had, 
however, recorded a dramatic production with devils and hell on the Ponte alla Carraia 
in 1304. In the mid-Quattrocento, Poggio had alluded to an apparent festive custom of 
parading real pazzi on a chariot, and Leon Battista Alberti offered a loose parallel in 
an episode of his Momus. Another source of inspiration is seen in Botticelli's 
drawings of ships with devils for Landino's edition of the Divine Comedy (1481). On 
the other hand, the author is at great pains to assert that Sebastian Brandt's 
Narrenschiff (1494) stems from a different tradition and has essentially nothing in 
common with the Florentine manifestation. 

It seems clear that the fusta was not devised simply to amuse the townspeople 
and to get them in the mood for festivities to come. It had, on the contrary, a civic 
function that was “fra il sovversivo e il catartico” (20). The discontented faction 
expressing its feelings in this dramatic way was, however, not an oppressed, 
alienated segment of the population, not, as one might first assume, a faction of 
defeated republicans, but the Medicean Signoria itself, and through it, perhaps, 
Lorenzo di Piero dei Medici, regent of the city. After delirious joy at the election of 
his uncle Giovanni dei Medici to the papacy as Leo X the preceding year, Florentine 
palleschi had become disenchanted with the new pontiff's policies. They resented (1) 
his rapprochement with Piero Soderini and other ex-piagnoni, (2) his leaning toward 
an alliance with Venice and France, and (3) his expensive pipe dream of a new crusade 
against the Turks. Lorenzo was perhaps also personally jealous of his uncle Giuliano 
and other relatives for staying close to the action in Rome while he had to reside in 
the backwater of Florence. Moreover, church officials from Rome sometimes 
comported themselves in Florence as though they were lords of the city. A number of 
cardinals had, in fact, just arrived to enjoy the San Giovanni festivities, bearing arms 
and riding horses on city streets in defiance of municipal regulations. 

The author's “reading” of the fusta's message does not convince me in all its 
details — most importantly in her identification of Carafulla with Piero Soderini and 
of Tancredi with the pope — and I do not grasp the relevance of the fact that cardinal 
Leo had commissioned a fountain in the form of a navicella for his titular church of 
Santa Maria in Domnica. Dr. Minio-Paluello is, however, clearly an expert in the 
historical moment of Summer 1514 for Roman and Venetian affairs as well as for 
Florentine ones, and her general interpretation of the fusta chariot as a critical 
message from the Signoria seems unassailable. Her study gives us a glimpse of the 
wealth of material in festival records awaiting competent elucidation, and we shall be 
waiting to see her apply her historical knowledge and interpretive talents to the 
lettura of new festival texts. 

Bonner Mitchell, University of Missouri-Columbia 


384 Reviews and Notes 


Franco Fido. Le muse perdute e ritrovate. Il divenire dei generi 
letterari tra Sette e Ottocento. Firenze: Vallecchi, 1989. Pp. 218. 


La complessa dinamica di trasformazioni che tra ]’eta dell’Arcadia e la stagione 
romantica ha il merito sia di rinnovare i vecchi generi che di proporne nuovi, viene 
attentamente riassunta e seguita nelle sue tappe fondamentali dalla tragedia alla 
commedia, dall’autobiografia al romanzo, in quest’ultimo libro di Franco Fido. Il 
volume illustra la crisi delle forme letterarie tradizionali e il ricostituirsi di vari generi 
in quattro aree, divise in dieci studi specifici. 

La prima, Tragedia e commedia, si apre con un saggio dal titolo suggestivo 
(Tragedie antiche senza fato: un dilemma settecentesco dagli aristotelici al Foscolo, 
pp. 11-40) e dal contenuto, non meno stimolante e ricco di spunti, riguardante i 
rapporti ambivalenti e i compromessi tra eminenti tragediografi come Maffei, Alfieri 
e Foscolo con gli archetipi offerti e mutuati dalla tradizione classica. 

Seguono due saggi rispettivamente dedicati alla novita rappresentata nel 
contesto settecentesco dalle opere teatrali di Martello (JI teatro parallelo di Pier 
Jacopo Martello, pp. 41-57) e ai modelli che Alfieri avrebbe potuto avere in mente 
per la composizione della Finestrina (Alfieri, Martello e una possibile fonte della 
Finestrina, pp. 59-67). 

La sezione successiva, Dalla commedia al dramma borghese. Percorsi 
goldoniani, consiste in due illuminanti studi che evidenziano il graduale distacco dal 
teatro goldoniano dai clichés comici tradizionali e il suo procedere verso le soluzioni 
originali ed autonome del ‘“‘dramma borghese”. Nel primo (Prima della “riforma” . 
Ipernaturalismo e sapienza drammaturgica della Putta onorata, pp. 71-91), pur 
individuando nella Putta onorata |’indiscutibile presenza di elementi che anticipano la 
grande stagione goldoniana, Fido sottolinea una certa dipendenza della commedia dal 
teatro arcaico, evidente sia nella tipologia dei personaggi che nell’impiego dei 
registri e nelle strutture sceniche. Nel secondo (Dopo la riforma: educazione 
sentimentale dell’innamorata “civile” goldoniana, pp. 93-112,) viene invece 
ricostruita una sorta di storia di quel “mondo dei sentimenti” che “si impone con 
urgenza crescente nel teatro di Goldoni, man mano che la Ragion mercantile tramonta 
come affidabile criterio di giudizio” (111). Le “eroine dell’amour-passion” (111) 
goldoniane, dalla Bettina della Putta onorata e della Buona moglie alla Eugenia degli 
Innamorati e alla Giacinta delle Villeggiature, riflettono secondo Fido con 
straordinaria forza teatrale la sensibilité, aspetto della cultura settecentesca pit 
europeo che italiano, e annunciano 1’Ottocento per l’assenza di edonismo e di 
compiacenza. 

I due saggi che compongono la terza parte del libro, Tra un genere e l'altro: 
vagabondaggi del Baretti, sono dedicati al ruolo svolto dal Baretti nel processo di 
apertura dell’Italia a risonanze europee e quindi nell’aggiornamento delle idee e dei 
generi letterari. All’intellettuale piemontese, infatti, non viene riconosciuto soltanto 
il merito di essere stato uno dei pil acuti critici e osservatori di una civilta pid 
ammirata che conosciuta come |’Inghilterra e di aver dato con i suoi studi un diverso 
orientamento alla gia esistente, e spesso retorica, anglofilia settecentesca (Jn 


Reviews and Notes 385 


Inghilterra: reportage e letteratura comparata, pp. 115-134), ma anche di aver 
sollecitato con le sue Lettere familiari la nascita di due sottogeneri: la corrispondenza 
giornalistica di viaggio e l’autobiografia romanzata (La scelta di lettere familiari: 
dalla grammatica all’ autobiografia clandestina, pp. 135-146). 

Nell’ultimo gruppo di studi, intitolato Le ragioni della prosa: dal diario al 
romanzo, si ripercorrono le tappe pil significative della scrittura prosastica sette- 
ottocentesca, a cominciare da quella volutamente soggettiva del diario e 
dell’ autobiografia. Al saggio sui giornali intimi (Specchio o messaggio? Sincerita e 
Scrittura nei giornali intimi tra Sette e Ottocento, pp. 149-160), un genere 
decisamente pit! comune in Francia che in Italia, segue quello sui topoi memorialistici 
(I topoi del soggetto. Alle origini dell'autobiografia moderna, pp. 161-178) 
ricorrenti nei testi autobiografici composti tra i due secoli (la nascita, la vocazione o 
l’educazione intellettuale, per ricordarne soltanto alcuni), i quali sono “spie di una 
continuita tra un’autobiografia e 1’altra” ( 167) e quindi di un dialogo intertestuale che 
puo essere intenzionale, se si rimanda esplicitamente alla fonte, o casuale quando si 
tratta di fopoi inerenti al genere stesso. 

Chiude la silloge un consuntivo dei numerosi riferimenti, espliciti o allusivi, 
all’opera manzoniana (Jl fantasma dei Promessi sposi nel romanzo italiano 
dell’ Ottocento, pp. 179-205) che nella tradizione narrativa ottocentesca — dalla 
Bufera di Calandra e Cento anni di Rovani alle Confessioni di un italiano di Nievo e a 
Piccolo mondo antico di Fogazzaro — continua ad essere un punto di riferimento 
costante, sia a livello di spunti tematici che di strutture narrative. 

Pur affrontando tematiche diverse che vanno dalla tragedia antica al dramma 
storico, dalla commedia al dramma borghese, dalle lettere familiari alla 
corrispondenza giornalistica, i saggi che compongono il libro sono tuttavia 
connessi da una solida ed unificante metodologia di analisi: la prospettiva storicistica 
e la visualizzazione “europea” del complicato meccanismo del farsi e disfarsi dei 
generi. Senza dubbio |’altissimo merito non soltanto delle Muse perdute e ritrovate, 
ma di ogni studio di Franco Fido. 

Stefania Buccini, University of Wisconsin-Madison 


Jane V. Bertolino. The Many Faces of Pamela. New York: Legas, 
1990. Pp. 136. 


Lo studio di Jane V. Bertolino costituisce uno dei pochi interventi in lingua inglese 
sul teatro di Goldoni. La novita di questo agile volume non risiede solamente nel 
portare all’attenzione della critica americana alcune opere del maggior 
commediografo italiano del Settecento, tuttora poco conosciuto al di fuori 
dell’Europa, ma nell’inserire la produzione goldoniana in un quadro europeo. 

Nel tracciare la fortuna della Pamela di Richardson in Europa, Bertolino individua 
nel successo di pubblico e nei motivi egalitaristici, portati a piena realizzazione nel 
romanzo con il matrimonio tra un nobile e una semplice "borghese”, i fattori che 
hanno spinto commediografi, tra gli altri Voltaire in Francia, Goldoni, Chiari, 
Cerlone in Italia ad imitare lo scrittore inglese. Questi autori hanno adattato il tema 
dell’uguaglianza sociale alla cultura del paese nel quale venivano rappresentate le loro 


386 Reviews and Notes 


tragicommedie. Grazie alla presa delle idee illuministiche in Francia, Voltaire pud 
conservare l’episodio del matrimonio tra esponenti di classi sociali diverse in 
Nanine, mentre Goldoni, nella Pamela nubile, ricorre all’espediente dell’agnizione 
per svelare i nobili natali dell’eroina e togliere ogni ostacolo ad un’unione che 
altrimenti avrebbe provocato indignazione nel pubblico veneziano, non ancora 
pronto ad accogliere in pieno la lezione illuministica. 

Il libro @ diviso in quattro capitoli, ognuno dei quali presenta un aspetto 
particolare relativo alla fortuna letteraria di Pamela : in Inghilterra (Chapter I. The 
English Pamela); nel continente europeo, dove la storia dell’eroina subisce delle 
trasformazioni (Chapter II. Pamela’s Transformation on the Continent), a Venezia, 
dove l’opera di Richardson é accolta con grande favore sebbene contenga elementi 
che si pongono in contrasto con i valori piii moderati della societa veneziana e del 
Goldoni stesso (Chapter III. Goldoni and the Venetian Setting); e infine sulle scene, 
che rinnovano il successo di Pamela per mezzo della piéce goldoniana, posta a 
confronto nelle sue soluzioni originali con il romanzo inglese (Chapter IV. Goldoni 
and Richardson: Pamelas compared). 

Il lavoro di Bertolino conserva coerenza in tutto il suo sviluppo con i 
presupposti metodologici contenuti nella /ntroduzione : “The purpose of this study is 
to examine the adaptations of the Pamela theme, specifically Goldoni’s adaptation as 
a reflection of different cultures. The work assumes that literature does express the 
characteristics of the social and cultural setting in which it is written” (x). Bertolino 
dichiara quindi la sua appartenenza alla scuola storicistica, ma, purtroppo, tende a 
semplificare il quadro storico sia per 1’Inghilterra che per 1’Italia, limitandosi a delle 
informazioni generali, sostenute da una bibliografia limitata nel numero di opere 
consultate. Un altro appunto che si potrebbe muovere all’autrice riguarda il ricorso a 
testimonianze di letterati e scrittori per provare il successo riscosso dal romanzo di 
Richardson nel Settecento (19-21; 27-29). La critica odierna é@ orientata nel provare la 
diffusione di un’opera di largo consumo attraverso dati quantitativi, cioé attraverso il 
numero di copie vendute e il numero delle ristampe. I giudizi “qualitativamente” 
rilevanti riportati da Bertolino si limitano quindi ad illuminare il lettore sulla 
ricezione del romanzo da parte di una porzione particolare di pubblico. 

Non ci soffermeremo sui capitoli II e III, di carattere informativo, per 
concentrarci sul capitolo portante del libro, il IV, in cui @ contenuta 1’analisi della 
Pamela di Richardson messa a confronto con la Pamela nubile di Goldoni. Eliminati 
dalla tragicommedia gli eccessi di passione e violenza psicologica e fisica contenuti 
nel romanzo, Goldoni forgia la psicologia di Pamela in accordo con gli ideali di 
moderazione e ragionevolezza cari al commediografo. Bertolino coglie la superiorita 
intellettuale della Pamela di Goldoni che si articola in quattro aspetti. Innanzitutto 
l’eroina goldoniana mostra di possedere una maggiore maturita, essendo persi in lei 
quegli elementi di trasporti infantili e di coquetterie che caratterizzano il personaggio 
inglese. Inoltre, nel pretendere rispetto da Milord Bonfil, avanza argomenti a favore 
dell’uguaglianza degli individui basata sulla ragione. Il ricorso all’argomento 
dell’uguaglianza naturale, che perd non coincide ancora con l’uguaglianza sociale, la 
rende un personaggio “‘laico”, pid in sintonia con il secolo dei lumi e in contrasto con 
il personaggio originale che deriva dalla religione le giustificazioni per difendere il 
proprio onore. Anche, il modo di esprimere l’amore per Milord Bonfil @ pit 
controllato: la Pamela della tragicommedia si limita a comunicare il proprio 


Reviews and Notes 387 


sentimento baciando la mano del suo padrone, mentre la Pamela di Richardson si getta 
tra le braccia dell’innamorato in un impeto di passione. Infine, la visione dell’amore 
subisce una trasformazione: la Pamela goldoniana, a differenza del suo modello, 
insiste nel separare gli elementi erotico-passionali dal sentimento di affetto e di 
collaborazione che giustifica l’amore coniugale. 

Le conclusioni a cui giunge Bertolino sono ben giustificate e illustrate da esempi 
provanti, sebbene l’autrice tenda a rendere Goldoni pil’ progressista dei suoi 
contemporanei, senza tener conto, per esempio, degli sforzi pionierististici di un 
Gasparo Gozzi giornalista, aperto alla filosofia d’oltralpe, e di un Chiari “difensore 
delle donne” nei suoi numerosi romanzi e commedie. I] libro é, comunque, un buono 
strumento di ricerca per chi intende approfondire le relazioni tra la cultura italiana del 
Settecento e quella europea. Di facile lettura, conciso, senza inutili digressioni, il 
testo si rivolge anche ad un pubblico che si accosta per la prima volta ai problemi 
delle influenze inglesi sulle letterature straniere, in particolare sul teatro di Goldoni, 
fornendo un quadro critico e informativo di esemplare chiarezza. 

Maria Ines Bonatti, Vassar College 


Alessandro Manzoni. I promessi sposi. Ed. Ezio Raimondi and 
Luciano Bottoni. Milano: Principato, 1988. Pp. 911. 

Since 1893 twenty-one school editions of ] promessi sposi have appeared in Italy. 
Some are the work of such prominent critics as Russo, Momigliano, Getto, Caretti, 
and Sapegno. Besides financial incentives, which no doubt played a part, what 
attracted seasoned literati to this effort was the opportunity to influence, with their 
comments to the novel, thousands of young readers. In recent years, more than any 
other text which is required reading in Italian secondary schools, ] promessi sposi has 
been the object of widespread criticism on pedagogical and ideological grounds. 
Teachers and students alike have criticized the traditional fashion of teaching the 
work while progressive elements in Italian society have questioned the choice of a 
text that espouses Catholic and supposedly conservative values. 

To a large extent, this recent edition of ] promessi sposi springs from a 
dissatisfaction with previous efforts, as Raimondi and Bottoni point out in the 
“Introduction”: “La scuola istituzionalizza dei modelli di lettura e li fa diventare degli 
schemi che noi pratichiamo vita natural durante. I] problema é@ di chiedersi a quali 
modi e a quali modelli di lettura siamo stati addestrati e come invece potremmo 
leggere certi testi. Nel caso de J promessi sposi \’impressione é che ci si sia abituati a 
una lettura fiacca edulcorando il romanzo e riducendolo alla forma fatua di “poema 
della Provvidenza” (XIX). Yet, unlike those, such as Alberto Moravia, who would 
prefer that Manzoni’s novel be banished from public schools altogether, the present 
editors second Hoffmannsthal’s assertion that Italy has produced two truly “national” 
works: Dante’s Commedia and I promessi sposi . They write: “Il romanzo parla 
dell’amore e dell’amicizia, della violenza e del tradimento, della malattia e della 
morte; attraverso le voci dei suoi personaggi parla della superstizione e della follia, 
della speranza e della giustizia, della politica e della guerra; parla della carita cristiana 
e dell’egoismo ottuso, dei caldi sogni della puberta e delle terrificanti ossessioni del 
delitto” (x1). 

In their relatively short “Introduction” the editors play down biographical 


388 Reviews and Notes 


events to focus essentially on two matters: the function of history in the novel — 
with too much emphasis, it seems to me, on Scott’s influence — and the question of 
language, which is all-important and ever-present in the exegetic apparatus. The body 
of annotations amounts to a monumental effort distinguished by a mine of textual 
commentary, elucidations, insights, references, and quotations of disparate sources, 
from the Bible to Fermo e Lucia. References to critics and previous commentators; to 
other works by Manzoni; to texts that share a genetic connection with J promessi 
sposi, especially Carlo Porta’s poetry, Carlo Maria Maggi’s plays, and Francesco 
Cherubini’s Vocabolario milanese-italiano, which was issued in 1814. 

With regard to language, this edition marks a significant departure from its 
predecessors in that it devotes considerable attention to Milanese dialect at the 
expense, of course, of Florentine. Raimondi and Bottoni are quite explicit on this 
point: “La pit feconda e maliziosa invenzione manzoniana sembra proprio quella di 
aver calato nella ‘dicitura’ del romanzo il dialetto milanese; la lingua del Maggi e del 
Porta inventariata dal dialettologo Cherubini” (xv). Critics and linguists have 
perhaps overplayed the importance of Florentine to the extent that some balance 
needed to be reasserted. However, rather than recognizing a long and painstaking 
process that resulted in a judicious eclecticism and linguistic fusion, these critics 
attribute to Milanese the significance that previous scholars have accorded to 
Florentine: “Il Manzoni inventa una lingua parlata che ha come punto fermo il 
milanese: con J promessi sposi il parlato fa irruzione in una letteratura che ne era 
priva: & una operazione rivoluzionaria, un esperimento straordinario” (348). The 
novel’s debt to Florence is thus decisively diminished: “Il soggiorno a Firenze del 
1827, pit’ che a ‘sciacquare i panni in Arno’ sarebbe servito, come nota 1’ Angelini, a 
controllare se le voci lombarde trovassero anche rispondenza nell’uso toscano” (318 
note). 

It makes little sense, in my view, to deemphasize Florence’s contribution to / 
promessi sposi. Juxtaposing Fermo e Lucia to the 1827 and 1840 editions of the 
work leaves no doubt that fundamental, qualitative changes in the texture of the 
language have taken place — changes identifiable with Florentine usage, ranging 
from idiomatic choices and syntactic constructs to a predilection for diminutive forms 
of nouns and the elision of the final vowel in the use of verbs. Clearly the transition 
from a vacillating, often rustic linguistic register to the refined text that we 
appreciate today is essentially the product of three factors: Manzoni’s close readings 
of Tuscan literary works; his sojourn in Florence in 1827; his consultation of 
Cherubini’s Vocabolario and of personal sources. 

What distinguishes this from other school editions of J promessi sposi is a 
determined effort to encourage students to read the text in accordance with recent 
critical practice. The intent is enunciated in the Avvertenze: “Solo un paziente 
esercizio ermeneutico concede di entrare nelle logiche segrete del racconto; solo una 
puntuale metodologia di lettura pud avvertire lo straordinario intreccio di registri 
narrativi in un romanzo intessuto di generi letterari diversi, di microromanzi 
biografici . . . con digressioni, parodie, montaggi ironici” (xx). At the end of each 
chapter, in the section called Integrazione, these assertions take the form of 
challenging critical notes for students. Clearly, this part constitutes the most 
innovative aspect of the Raimondi-Bottoni edition. The /ntegrazione begins with a 
descriptive account of the chapter’s narrative sequences and their significance. There 





Reviews and Notes 389 


follows a variable but methodologically uniform selection of discoursive questions 
closely identified with structuralist analysis; such questions as diegetic and mimetic 
narration; typology of characters and character interactions; speech representation; 
focalization; story-time and the like. Each new term is duly explained when first 
introduced and diagrams are used regularly to render critical understanding of the novel 
more accessible to students. 

One cannot but applaud the decision to introduce students to the basic aims and 
the lexicon of contemporary criticism. But the /ntegrazione also raises serious 
questions. There is, for instance, a disparity in methodology between the footnotes, 
which exhibit a fairly traditional form of exegesis, and the critical stance of the 
Integrazione, which is informed by the tenets of structuralist criticism. In any event, 
the passage from one mode of “reading” to another offers two critical viewpoints, but 
can also confuse and disorient students. It should be said too that the critical tools 
placed in the students’ hands are somewhat outdated. While structuralism has given 
way, in recent years, to deconstruction and semiotics, Bottoni insists on applying to 
the novel, with the aid of tables, circles, and arrows, Greimas’ categorization of 
fictional characters and their function as actants, helpers, opponents, and similar 
terminology. 

There is affinity between the Jntegrazione and the footnotes on one point: the 
dominant position assigned to language in critical analysis. Language, of course, not 
as Manzoni understood it, but as a system that organizes and defines the structure of 
the novel. Nearly everything here is explained in terms of language. Take this 
definition of a fictional character: “Il personaggio @ un insieme di parole, un costrutto 
testuale, un fascio di relazioni che lo individuano per somiglianza o opposizione 
rispetto ad altri personaggi del romanzo” (428). And: “Dovrebbe essere ora chiaro che 
il personaggio non é che un insieme di enunciati, di frasi pronunciate da lui o su di lui: 
il personaggio infatti nasce solamente dalle frasi, dalle unita di senso, e possiamo 
considerarlo un effetto ‘di persona’ costruito progressivamente dal racconto” (518). 
Given these strong, normative assertions, it becomes difficult for a young reader to 
perceive Renzo, for example, as a tangible, if fictional, being with individual 
characteristics and human traits not unlike those embodied by a real being. The 
crucial distinction here is between a reasonable axiom that a character is fashioned 
with and defined by words, and the proposition that a character is essentially a 
linguistic abstraction. 

In the Integrazione, but often in the textual commentary as well, the adherence to 
structuralist tenets yields a discoursive practice through which the lyrical and the 
spiritual, ideology and poetry, the presence of the novelist as author and person are 
subordinated, when they are not sacrificed, to obsequious attention to dry, technical 
concepts which are supposed to explain and illustrate — but often fail on both counts 
— how language as a system organizes and gives expression to a cultural 
phenomenon which, in our case, takes the form of a historical novel. 

A balance of sorts is reestablished in the last section of the work, Ipotesi di 
lavoro, consisting of an average of five-six questions per chapter in which students 
are asked to respond to the text with less technical and abstract evaluations. In 
closing, it should be clear that this is not another annotated edition of J promessi 
sposi. In spite of my reservations — which can be neutralized by a capable instructor 
— the encyclopedic design of the project, coupled with the competence and the 


390 Reviews and Notes 


boundless effort with which it is carried, make this edition a watershed in the cultural 
history of the novel. 
Augustus Pallotta, Syracuse University 


S. Bernard Chandler. Saggi sul romanzo italiano dell'ottocento. 
Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1989. 


S. Bernard Chandler’s admirable insistence on reading Italian literature in its 
European literary context is evident throughout this collection of essays. The author 
is primarily concerned with the writings of Alessandro Manzoni and Giovanni Verga 
— their minor as well as major works; his intelligent analysis does not, however, 
ignore the Ottocento’s lesser lights. Chandler’s style is suggestive rather than 
argumentative: like Verga, he allows the reader to draw his or her own conclusions; 
like Manzoni, he sometimes offers elegant suggestions about what those conclusions 
ought to be. Although an explicit comparison between nineteenth-century Italy’s 
most influential novelists is avoided, the overall effect of the book’s double focus is 
one of counterpoint criticism, subtly rendered but nonetheless provocative. Most of 
the essays have been published elsewhere; some have undergone extensive revision. 

The sole exception to the book’s Manzoni-Verga dichotomy is the opening 
essay, “La donna e il romanzo al principio dell’ottocento.” Here the focus is not on 
either of these authors — although some attention is given to Manzoni’s thoughts on 
the “Woman Question” — but rather on “i rapporti delle donne con la cultura e la 
letteratura . . . nel Settecento e nell’Ottocento,” in Italy and a broad (7; pardon my sic 
humor). There is, perhaps, an unintended irony in the title, for Chandler’s essay 
indicates that the social, cultural and literary status of the novel rose faster and farther 
than that cf women, or rather, of women who wanted to be writers. 

To say that Chandler devotes five of the other eight essays in his book to 
Manzoni is to risk understatement, unless we take the word “devotion” in a quasi- 
religious sense — as seriously, that is, as Chandler takes the moral, theological and 
philosophical questions with which Manzoni grapples. Chandler’s prose is 
compelling, often persuasive, frequently impassioned. The reader might sometimes 
wonder whose voice he or she is hearing, that of the twentieth-century critic or his 
nineteenth-century subject. It should therefore come as no surprise that Chandler cites 
Paul Tillich at the end of “Il momento nel pensiero e nelle opere di Alessandro 
Manzoni” (47n53): Tillich, Chandler and Manzoni share an interest in the “boundary 
situation,” where theology, philosophy and culture intersect. This essay, which takes 
as its point of departure Augustine’s meditations on time in Book 11 of his 
Confessions, is particularly interesting for its examination of Manzoni’s thought as 
it relates not only to his seventeenth- and eighteenth-century sources, but also to 
poets, theologians and philosophers (primarily but not exclusively existentialist) 
who succeeded him, in Italy and elsewhere. 

The linchpin in Chandler’s otherwise free-wheeling Chapter 2 is the 1819 
edition of Manzoni’s Osservazioni sulla morale cattolica. “Nel romanzo,” he notes, 
referring of course to J promessi sposi, “egli non applicava troppo strettamente le 
dottrine delle Osservazioni; si rendeva conto delle condizioni speciali del 


Reviews and Notes 391 


personaggio e condivideva il concetto romantico dell’unicita di ogni eta storica” 
(37). Manzoni’s struggle to accommodate history and the human psyche to a 
“reasonable” Christianity is most evident in his depiction of the Innominato, and it 
is to this character that Chandler dedicates the crux of his analyses in three of the five 
Manzoni essays. 

Although he acknowledges the Innominato’s Romantic genealogy (“la sua 
genesi dalla figura dello Sturm und Drang e del romanticismo che sfida la societa” 61; 
the essay in which this observation appears is “La passione, la ragione e il male nel 
pensiero e nelle opere di Alessandro Manzoni”), Chandler elsewhere notes that the 
climactic conversion scene also dramatizes a number of issues discussed in the 
Osservazioni (52). The powerful Man Without a Name is again described by Chandler 
in terms of Romantic excess in Chapter 4 (“I limiti della liberta dell’individuo nelle 
opere di Alessandro Manzoni”): “L’ironia del dramma dell’Innominato é che, infine, 
si trova rinchiuso in un isolamento che eccede tutti gli altri” (77). 

In these essays as well as the others of the collection which touch on J promessi 
sposi (“Tl concetto del dovere nelle opere di Alessandro Manzoni” and “Tl motivo del 
viaggio nel romanzo del ’700, in Walter Scott e in Alessandro Manzoni’’), Chandler 
fleshes out his analyses of character with reference to Manzoni’s less familiar works, 
including Adelchi, Il conte di Carmagnola, Discorso su alcuni punti della storia 
longobardica, and Fermo e Lucia. As for the oft-cited Osservazioni, it is implicitly 
described as a psychological inquiry or character study, disguised, so to speak, as a 
moral treatise (52), while J promessi sposi is cast, particularly in Chapter 6 (“Il 
concetto del dovere’’), as a moral meditation disguised as a study of human 
psychology and human behavior. 

Turning to Verga, Chandler’s primary concern is not with character but rather 
with the author’s use of imagery. True, Chapter 8 (“La caratterizzazione delle classi 
superiori in alcuni romanzi di Giovanni Verga”) deals with Verga’s depiction of the 
international set, the bourgeoisie, and a few stragglers from la vie de bohéme in Una 
peccatrice, Eva, Eros and II marito di Elena, but I found this essay to be a bit weaker 
than the others; despite its laudable effort to recuperate the “minor” Verga, it does not 
offer much that has not been said before. “La contemplazione della natura nelle opere 
di Giovanni Verga,” on the other hand, offers illuminating observations on some of 
the author’s lesser-studied works, including several short stories which are, alas, 
frequently overlooked outside of Italy. 

“Tl movimento della vita nelle opere di Giovanni Verga” is, simply put, a great 
essay, rich and suggestive in its identification of stasis and mobility as the 
motivating dialectic of Verga’s prose. Rivers and roads, rather than the sea (where 
“Providence,” significantly, drowns), predominate in this excellent, provocative 
study. Chandler integrates poignant quotations from Verga’s correspondence with 
passages culled primarily, but not exclusively, from J Malavoglia. The reader 
acquainted with Gaston Bachelard’s Poétique de l'’espace may be tempted to 
characterize this approach to Verga’s fiction as phenomenological; in fact, 
Bachelard’s book was published the same year, 1958, in which this essay first 
appeared. Chandler, however, avoids references to continental literary theory 
throughout the collection, which makes the coincidence of the critics’ interest in 
spatial form all the more interesting. 

Chandler is a gentleman critic, ever gracious in his acknowledgements and 


392 Reviews and Notes 


modest in his critical discoveries (for a delightful example, see 86n12). But he is also 
capable of staking out his critical territory with conviction and purpose: “Si é parlato 
della stabilita, della certezza, della casa e della famiglia che sembrano fondamentali 
nella vita apparentemente fissa di Aci Trezza, con la sua saggezza tramandata dagli avi 
e conservata nei proverbi. . . . Perd il concetto della vita umana espressa nella 
prefazione dei Malavoglia non permette l’esistenza permanente di stabilita e 
sicuramente non si puo trascurare questa prefazione né esaminare il romanzo senza 
tenerne conto” (110-11). This is radical, revisionist, laudable stuff; to Chandler’s 
credit, it is as elegant and subdued in its attack on the tired old way of reading J 
Malavoglia as Verga himself could have wished. 

Darby Tench, Middlebury College 


Mario Aste. Grazia Deledda: Ethnic Novelist. Scripta Humanistica 
68. Potomac, ML: Scripta Humanistica, 1990. Pp. 103. 


Non si pud certo dire che sull’opera di Grazia Deledda (1871-1936) siano mancati 
impegnativi studi critici dall’epoca, almeno, del premio Nobel, ottenuto dalla 
Sscrittrice sarda nel 1926, con cui praticamente si certificava un gia avvenuto 
internazionale riconoscimento dei suoi meriti artistici. Altrettanto ingiusto sarebbe 
affermare che la critica ha evitato l’elemento della etnicita nelle discussioni intorno 
ai temi, allo stile e alla stessa forma mentis della scrittrice. Lo studio di Mario Aste, 
in cui si tiene conto di queste realta, non vuole essere allora né una generica 
riesumazione di una autrice “dimenticata”, né un inventario di elementi etnici 
rinvenuti nella sua opera. Lo scopo del volume, pienamente realizzato, é quello di 
riconoscere la centralita della cultura sarda nella Deledda, e di distinguerla da una 
cultura italiana che secoli di tradizione critica hanno voluto organicamente unitaria. 
Le implicazioni di questa nettissima posizione sono molteplici e di ampia portata. 
Basti pensare, per rendersene conto, che a nessuno oggi verrebbe in mente di 
considerare la “letteratura inglese” come una entita comprendente anche la letteratura 
americana, quella canadese, australiana, neozelandese ecc. Eppure questa é la 
situazione in Italia dove “cultura” e “lingua” non sono ancora state adeguatamente 
distinte. I] fortunato lavoro di Contini, La letteratura dell'Italia unita, 1961-1978 
(Firenze, Sansoni, 1968) non @ che una conferma di questo stato di cose. Contini 
esclude la Deledda che, invece, costituisce una presenza di primo piano nell’ antologia 
ideale, ancora tutta da fare, sulla “letteratura dell’Italia disunita”. Ritorno su questo 
argomento nella conclusione; urge ora descrivere pit dettagliatamente 1’ottimo 
lavoro di Aste e raccoglierne gli spunti interpretativi pit’ stimolanti. 

Il volume é diviso in tre capitoli limitati da una doppia apertura (Preface 1-3; 
Introduction 4-6) e da una Conclusion (87-90). Nel primo capitolo, Early Literary 
Experiences, si discute della formazione culturale della scrittrice che fu praticamente 
un’autodidatta: pur appartenendo a una famiglia alquanto agiata, venne ritirata dalla 
scuola pubblica dopo le elementari. Davvero intensa risulta quindi la sua vocazione 
letteraria, espressa inizialmente in ricerche e saggi sulle tradizioni popolari della 
Sardegna e in particolare della sua citta, Nuoro. Aste mette subito in rilievo che ]’uso 
della lingua italiana rende la scrittrice, fin dai suoi primi esperimenti, consciamente 


Reviews and Notes 393 


“bilingual in the true sense of the word” (8): non solo per l’uso comune e familiare del 
dialetto, diversissimo dall’italiano, ma perché il mondo stesso in cui la Deledda @ 
avvolta, e nelle origini del quale si immerge e si ritrova con straordinario entusiasmo, 
costituisce una cultura diversa, per molti versi opposta a quella italiana. Aste 
ripropone un significativo brano di una lettera della Deledda, gia scrittrice affermata, 
del 1902: “Io scrivo ancora male in italiano . . .” (12). Viene da pensare ad altra gente 
che “scriveva male” in italiano, a Verga o a Svevo per esempio. 

Nel secondo capitolo, il pit denso, sui temi e i personaggi, Elemental Themes 
and Characterization in Deledda, gli aspetti della cultura sarda della scrittrice 
prendono forma pit definita. Aste dedica un ampio paragrafo al banditismo (30-41), 
spiegandone le profonde motivazioni e l’accettazione del fenomeno nel mondo 
culturale della Sardegna e della Barbagia specificamente, il territorio del nuorese che 
gia dai tempi dei Romani aveva respinto le innovazioni della “modernita”. La 
consapevolezza culturale della Deledda la porta a riconoscere i valori fondamentali 
dell’uomo nelle espressioni di vita “diversa”, e vuoi pure violenta, dei pastori 
banditi. Lucido e ben articolato é anche il paragrafo successivo, Landscape and Nature 
(41-51). Il paesaggio della Sardegna nella Deledda non @ semplicemente uno sfondo, 
un background, ma é un organismo che si incarna, per cosi dire, nei personaggi. In 
termini di Gestalt psychology si pud affermare che non abbiamo qui un chiaro 
distacco tra “figures” (i personaggi) e “ground” (il paesaggio), ma una fusione 
organica delle due entita, un rapporto di tipo “ground-ground”. Cid spiega 
l’inevitabilita dei conflitti psicologici (Psychological Conflicts @ il titolo 
dell’ultimo paragrafo di questo capitolo) ogni volta che i personaggi devono far 
fronte ad una struttura d’autorita diversa da quella della loro cultura. Un caso tipico, 
veramente esemplare, é quello del prete Paulu, in La madre, romanzo del 1920. Paulu é 
un sacerdote, ma la viscerale comunione con la cultura della sua terra, che privilegia le 
esigenze primarie su ogni forma di “astrazione legale” sia essa pure religiosa, lo porta 
tra le braccia di una parrocchiana. La Deledda non punta su cid che altri potrebbero 
considerare l’ipocrisa della situazione, ma sulla verita di questa esperienza passionale 
con un fondo pagano, che si basa sull’atavica esigenza di agire secondo natura. E 
soprattutto questo che D. H. Lawrence amava nella Deledda, e certamente non é@ un 
caso che un lettore di questo calibro, che contribui al riconoscimento mondiale della 
scrittrice, come ricorda Aste, fosse anche un ammiratore del Verga. In entrambi gli 
scrittori italiani, “veristi” secondo una troppo riduttiva classificazione, Lawrence 
trovava un mondo che “resisteva” alle lusinghe e alle insidie della modernita 
imperante. 

Il terzo e ultimo capitolo, The Problem of “Religiosity” in Deledda, & diviso in 
tre paragrafi: i primi due (Primitive Religion e Religiosity) mettono a fuoco il 
problema, il terzo (Ethics and Evil) indica la soluzione suggerita dal critico. La 
religiosita primitiva, millenaria, discende dal culto della fertilita. Di nuovo, qui 
abbiamo una conferma della funzione portante della natura e del paesaggio nell’opera 
della Deledda. Il culto si esprime in riti che marcano il susseguirsi delle stagioni e tali 
Titi si ritrovano nel vivissimo folklore rappresentato dalla scrittrice. Il problema 
della religiosita in termini cristiani @ un riflesso del problema centrale, che @ quello 
dello scontro tra due diverse culture, una autoctona e |’altra importata. Ma c’é la 
possibilita di una sintesi, ed é quella che Aste riconosce nella tendenza della scrittrice 
a fissare i problemi pit’ gravi secondo direttive morali, secondo una distinzione tra 


394 Reviews and Notes 


bene e male che va al di 1a della “legge” e che in ultima analisi dipende dall’esigenza 
di vivere in armonia con la “natura”. Detto in questi termini la soluzione pud apparire 
ovvia, scontata e perfino semplicistica; ma la “natura” virgolettata sta a significare 
che qui ci si riferisce soprattutto alla “natura umana” che solo attraverso una moralita 
primaria, propria dell’uomo e quindi universale, trova la possibilita di un’intesa tra 
istituti tribali millenari e leggi “modeme”. 

Che si accetti o meno questa interpretazione della religiosita della Deledda, resta 
il fatto che a lei si deve l’aver messo a fuoco un contrasto fondamentale nella cultura 
del Novecento. Esso si rivela particolarmente attuale oggi, in una stagione culturale, 
giustamente definita “postmoderna”, in cui segni evidenti di un generale processo di 
ritribalizzazione appaiono in tutto il mondo. Si tratta di un globale movimento di 
ricerca di identit&é espresso nella rivalorizzazione delle etnie, indubbiamente dovuto al 
fallimento dell’omogeneizzazione culturale moderna, ingenuamente presentata come 
inevitabile da una viziata nozione di progresso. 

Per indicare il valore referenziale della centratissima posizione di Aste, per uno 
stimolo a ripensare 1’“unita” della letteratura in lingua italiana e per auspicare infine 
nuove ricerche nordamericane su esperienze creative fuori canone, niente mi pare pit 
opportuno della conclusione di William McNeill in Polyethnicity and National Unity 
in World History (U of Toronto P, 1986): “The Peculiar balance between 
homogeneity and diversity that a few west European nations were able to strike in the 
late eighteenth century and maintained until the twentieth was a phase — a passing 
phase — remarkable and admirable in many respects, but oppressive and repugnant 
from the viewpoint of those over whom they exercised imperial authority... . 
Polyethnicity in some form or other is preferable, despite its drawbacks and 
difficulties. Canadian and American experience gives North America something of a 
head start in the awkward matter of getting used to living side by side with people of 
differing ethnic heritage. Europeans are only beginning to get used to looking across 
the Atlantic; but in matters of public policy towards ethnic minorities they may have 
reason to do so in time to come” (84). 

Francesco Guardiani, University of Toronto 


Robert S. Dombroski. Antonio Gramsci. Boston: Twayne 
Publishers, 1989. 


If there is beauty in brevity (and there is), then Robert Dombroski’s Antonio Gramsci 
is indeed beautiful. In the current debate on cultural studies — a discourse which 
sometimes fails to steer clear of the rhetorical Scylla and Charybdis it has itself 
helped to create — Robert Dombroski’s account of Gramsci’s life and work is like the 
Rock of Gibraltar: strong, solid, and definite. With Antonio Gramsci Dombroski 
demonstrates once again his consummate skill at crafting pithy, economical studies 
whose straight-forward style should be emulated more often. In L’esistenza 
ubbidiente, (Napoli: Guida Editori, 1984) Dombroski took as his subject literary 
production and the intellectual climate under fascism and fashioned a seamless, 114- 
page study of fascist culture and literature before and during the regime. In Apologia 
del vero (Padova: Liviana, 1984), Dombroski scrutinized Manzoni studies, this time 


Reviews and Notes 395 


in under 100 pages. Regarding length, Dombroski’s current offering is no exception: 
Antonio Gramsci has 132 pages of text, informative and responsible foomotes, and 
an excellent bibliography. 

Here Robert Dombroski systematically investigates the notion of culture as it 
unfolds in the scholar’s work. Dombroski maintains that the “Prison Notebooks may 
be read as a long series of diversified reflections on the intimate nature and concrete 
operations of bourgeois political institutions, particularly on the problem of the 
relative autonomy of cultural superstructures and their functions within the complex 
social processes of class domination and subordination” (3). The seemly point of 
departure in a discussion of Gramsci’s grasp on culture begins as an analysis of the 
drama reviews which he wrote for Avanti! between 1916 and 1920. 

Chapter Two, “Theater and Revolutionary Strategy,” tenders several interesting 
points about Gramsci’s “pre-prison” work on culture, the distinction between art and 
ideology, Gramsci’s feminism, and Dombroski’s own critical methodology. For 
Dombroski, Gramsci’s theater criticism reveals “the convergence of a series of 
problems relative to the practice of literature in the context of revolutionary struggle: 
on what aspect of drama must a critic focus to determine its value as an art product; 
how are the plays used, for whom are they written, and what is the significance of 
their purported or disguised ideological functions” (24). This strategy of historico- 
political determination is one Dombroski deploys intelligently throughout the text. 
Gramsci’s thoughts on culture will necessarily evolve over time; Gramsci’s relative 
youth, his profession as journalist (and the forum that profession provides within the 
public sphere), and his nascent political involvement are as important to an 
understanding of the earlier stage of his thoughts on culture as the experiences of 
international political exposure, prison, and fascism are to the latter phase. This 
chapter, moreover, distinguishes between art (here, theater) and ideology, a vital 
distinction also made explicit in the Prison Notebooks. Although Gramsci 
appreciated Pirandello’s cultural project, he felt that Pirandello “failed to establish a 
basis of a new tradition in the theater . . . that Pirandello’s dramatic technique was 
incapable of influencing future playwrights; rather that the human consciousness his 
plays manifested could not be the source for a new conception of life and, therefore, 
of a new art” (47). Conversely, Ibsen’s theater, specifically A Doll's House, is an 
open challenge to bourgeois society. That Ibsen’s work should have been so ill- 
received in Italy exposed the oppression, sexism, male privilege, and exploitation to 
which women were subjugated in Italian society. For Gramsci, Ibsen’s project is a 
paradigm for several reasons: it forces society to confront the reality of its 
institutions; its realism — the result of the intersection between the aesthetic and the 
ethical — does not degenerate into “documentary reportage” and is thus coexistent 
with psychological and social exactness; and finally Ibsenian theater exhibits what 
Gramsci calls the “struggle to survive morally.” 

Even though Antonio Gramsci is aimed primarily at the English speaking reader 
of Gramsci and Marxist literary criticism, as Dombroski indicates at the start of his 
study, the text does not therefore suffer an absence of Italian perspicacity. Dombroski 
strikes the delicate balance between addressing an Italian audience familiar with 
certain cultural debates and historical phenomena (e.g., epistemological differences 
between De Sanctis and Croce, the jesuit Bresciani, political particularities of the 
fascist regime, etc.) and informing an English-speaking reader perhaps just recently 


396 Reviews and Notes 


arrived to such topics. Chapter Three, “The Appeal of De Sanctis,” is a tactically 
important place to achieve this balance with regard to readership; a clear explanation 
of the tensions between De Sanctis’s and Croce’s world views and philosophical 
systems in this chapter enables Dombroski to proceed, in the following chapters, to 
Gramsci’s notion of the national-popular in Chapter Four, to popular literature and 
folklore in Chapter Five, and finally to criticism and ideology in Chapter Six. 

In Chapter Four, “‘A Culture at Once National and Popular,” Dombroski seeks to 
illuminate the two registers in which the concepts “national” and “popular” speak. 
Dombroski characterizes the national-popular as a “phenomenon that transforms 
what is specific to a given historically and socially determinate cultural expression 
into the universal language of a common artistic heritage” (90); the national-popular 
writer performs the same task and “reforms literary convention and tradition by 
means of the thoughtful and creative reelaboration of a common language” (91). In 
this chapter Dombroski examines the duality of the national-popular as Gramsci 
perceived it in the Renaissance and Humanism, Futurism, and the work of Machiavelli 
and Sorel. 

Social and institutional processes — culture — are the object of concern for 
Dombroski in his study of Antonio Gramsci. There is a consonance of goals between 
Gramsci’s cultural criticism and Dombroski’s examination of it. Gramsci believed 
that intellectuals were cultural workers and that an awareness of how they “contributed 
to political consensus and of how they influenced the popular masses in accepting the 
world view of the ruling classes could help revolutionary intellectuals define their 
goals more precisely and select appropriate means for achieving them” (1). Like 
Edward Said (in a discussion Dombroski recalls about the cultural formation of the 
American Left) and Gramsci before him, Dombroski believes that culture is the “stuff 
of which power is made and by which it is maintained” and, as such, should be 
plumbed and culled for what it can offer the critic cum citizen. Furthermore, if 
Gramsci’s work “is to have any bearing on the way we engage in intellectual or 
cultural practice, it will do so by developing in us a sense of our own politics: a 
realization that the actual workings of our critical operations depend on 
circumstances of which we and the ‘text’ partake, that we, like Gramsci’s 
intellectuals, are ‘agents’ working within a particular hegemonic or 
counterhegemonic process” (132). 

As the readership of Gramsci changes, so too does the interpretation of Gramsci 
develop extramurally, encountering and sustaining change as it expands beyond 
linguistic (Dombroski offers opinions on the translations and collections of 
Gramsci’s work available) and academically disciplinarian boundaries (from Italian 
studies to social sciences, to literary studies and back to Italian literary criticism). 
Functioning as a kind of triangulating agent, Dombroski is of particular help on this 
plane described by a set of oppositions (English and Italian language, Italian and 
non-Italian scholarship, social sciences and humanities). Dombroski deftly 
historicizes and culturally situates Gramsci’s work, jettisoning what may no longer 
function while retaining what, if considered in the abstract, may provide insight into 
certain social and institutional processes. 


Ellen Nerenberg, The University of Chicago 


Reviews and Notes 397 


Anthony Caputi. Pirandello and the Crisis of Modern 
Consciousness. Urbana: U of Illinois P, 1988. Pp. 172. 


Scholars have long searched for a unifying idea by which to embrace Pirandello’s vast 
opus in all its complexity, including its apparent inconsistencies and contradictions. 
Adriano Tilgher, in the late 1920s (Studi sul teatro contemporaneo, Roma: Libreria di 
Scienze e Lettere, 1929), thought he found it in the formula “Life versus Form,” but it 
turned out to be only a partial answer to the elusive quest. Franco Zangrilli, in his 
book L’arte novellistica di Pirandello (Ravenna: Longo, 1983), likewise identified an 
important key in the notion of the intimate moral reality of the characters. On a 
smaller scale (Alle fonti di Pirandello, Firenze: ABC, 1979), I, too, underscored the 
theme of hypocrisy as conjoining the majority of the author’s works. Various other 
theories, too numerous to characterize here, have also been formulated, and though all 
have contributed to a deeper understanding of the author’s art, none has proven utterly 
comprehensive, much less exclusionary. It is clear that Pirandello, as all great 
authors, will continue to be an inexhaustible subject of study. It is against this 
background that Pirandello and the Crisis of Modern Consciousness — an excellent 
distillation and clarification of many previous studies (see the ample bibliography) 
— should ultimately be viewed. 

In the “Introduction” Anthony Caputi begins with the assumption, which he 
justifies in the course of his monograph, that “Pirandello was a key figure in that 
shift of sensibility by which consciousness with its many-layered life replaced the 
inherent structures of tradition in the West as a matrix of value” (1). According to this 
former Cornell University professor, Pirandello’s awareness of such a crisis is the 
main issue in all his works. In these initial pages Caputi, an inveterate 
comparativist, contrasts George Bernard Shaw’s view of consciousness with that of 
Pirandello. For that 20th-century Irish author consciousness is intrinsically governed 
by principles of creative evolution, whereas for the Sicilian-born author (as well as 
for the majority of the intelligentsia of the present century), it is not in itself 
purposeful, being capable of little more than self-deception. 

In Chapter I, entitled “A World of Words,” Caputi shows how, already in early 
letters to his loved ones, Pirandello expressed a pessimistic view of reality and a 
belief that created worlds, invented structures, and illusions were the makeup of life. 
The critic also shows how in his first poetic efforts, as well as in the fiction, essays, 
and unrealized plays of the 1890s, he began to analyze this crisis of values which he 
was to identify as a crisis of consciousness. As Pirandello saw it, modem 
consciousness had to discover a new idea of itself and of the world, a way to structure 
itself that would enable it once again to derive values coherently. But for Pirandello, 
as Caputi points out, quoting the words of the author, reality “is like a polyhedron: 
we cannot see every side of it at once” (24). It therefore follows that “the world is not 
limited to our idea of it,” but “‘we must commit ourselves to realizing it as much as we 
can” (30). Caputi also cites some of the terms by which Pirandello tried repeatedly to 
explain his conception of the creative process, which also constituted his esthetics, 
such as spontaneity, sincerity, and authenticity, and were to guide the individual in 


398 Reviews and Notes 


the creation of his reality, a world of human things. Significantly, throughout his life 
Pirandello polemicized against the so-called world of words, that is, against rhetoric 
and the imitation of models. 

In Chapter II, “In Search of Authenticity,” Caputi focuses on Pirandello’s 
perception of umorismo, the essence of the author’s poetic and psychologic- 
philosophic theory. For the Sicilian author, umorismo was the principal means by 
which modern consciousness could deal with the world and achieve authenticity for 
experience. Caputi also discusses the noted quarrel between Pirandello and Croce 
primarily over the nature of the creative process, including the role of umorismo. For 
Croce, creation was essentially the product of intuition and did not include the 
conscious, critical process of reflection, or umorismo, which the Neapolitan 
philosopher dismissed as a subjective state. For Pirandello, on the contrary, it 
implied the spontaneous collaboration of many faculties, including the indispensable 
humoristic reflection. Caputi states that umorismo was a vital and important element 
of Pirandello’s fiction and drama, and elucidates its function in various works. While 
the critic considers the novel Jl fu Mattia Pascal (1904) the prime medium for this 
humoristic vision, he also points to short stories such as Sunlight and Shadow 
(1896), Who Was It? (1896), as well as the novel A Place in Line (1902) as variously 
illustrative. 

In Chapter III, “A Meditation on Consciousness and Self-consciousness,” Caputi 
discusses the nature and powers of consciousness but also its limits and arbitrariness. 
He then concentrates on the reflective capacity of consciousness, namely, self- 
consciousness. In the critic’s opinion, Pirandello believed that the process of 
creating works of art and constructing experience are identical, and so in the postwar 
years he concentrated more and more on self-consciousnesss, projecting it in his 
theater. One of the richest studies of self-consciousness, declares Caputi, is the short 
story The Difficulty of Living like This (1920), another is the novel The Old and the 
Young (1913), and still others are the plays Right You Are (1913) and The Game of 
Parts (1918). Caputi further explains that Pirandello applied his ideas about creation 
and self-creation to the then current political situation and so he was initially 
attracted to Mussolini, since the latter had first destroyed in order to clear the way for 
creation. He concludes the chapter by saying that Pirandello argued that resorting to 
consciousness is the last authentic basis for self-creation. But Caputi reminds us that 
consciousness for Pirandello offered no absolute foundation; indeed, he saw it as a 
dubious source of value and integrity, a curse as well as a blessing. 

In Chapter IV, “In the Grips of Arcane Forces,” Caputi explains that, according 
to Pirandello, the sense of mysterious forces controlling and undermining the process 
of conscious control itself is the greatest principle that affects consciousness. He 
then touches upon one of the author’s favorite images, that of the lanternino. 
Consciousness, for Pirandello, is like a little lantern that while casting a circle of 
light, makes one aware of the darkness beyond. Such plays as No One Knows How 
(1934), and such stories as The Fly (1904), A Passing Touch (1906), Nené and Nini 
(1912), Puberty (1926), and The Victory of the Ants (1935), are clear examples of 
this principle. The critic also mentions death as one of the arcane forces omnipresent 
in Pirandello’s work, and explains that the Sicilian author wrote about death because 
in that event arcane forces dominate, the dissolution of life being the greatest proof 
of the mystery surrounding and threatening us. Caputi then proceeds to identify the 


Reviews and Notes 399 


characters’ various reactions to the arcane, to wit: glee, rage, alienation, nausea, 
wonder, and compassion. 

In Chapter V, “Relativity and the Fictions of the Spirit,” Caputi points out that 
no less important than the role of arcane forces is the idea that everything is relative, 
which, to be sure, was not a new idea. What was new was Pirandello’s attitude toward 
it: he felt one should face it honestly. Even though Pirandello believed that 
everything is arbitrary and subjective, he argued that creation and self-creation must 
be governed by sincerity. The critic then singles out Pirandello’s debt for such ideas, 
which the author himself acknowledged in his essays: Alfred Binet, Giovanni 
Marchesini, and Henri Bergson. But Caputi contends that the innovation introduced 
by Pirandello was to study the consequences of such ideas and to devise ways of living 
with them, such as recognizing the necessity for masks, fictions or self-conscious 
pretense. The critic further points out that the novel The Notebooks of Serafino 
Gubbio (1915), plays such as At the Exit (1916), Right You Are (1917), and 
especially Henry IV (1922), represent significant studies about the place of relativity 
in self-conscious life. 

In Chapter VI, “The Theatrical Matrix of Experience,” Caputi states that 
Pirandello’s intuition that experience was at bottom theatrical (or that life is theater) 
became, after 1917, one of his chief preoccupations, together with the notion of 
relativity. This would account in part for the author’s increasing interest in writing 
plays and in theater itself to the extent that he became an insightful theatrical 
director. Among the plays Caputi analyzes in this light are: To Find Oneself (1932), a 
work about self-conscious self-creation; Six Characters in Search of an Author 
(particularly the 1925 version), where the characters are shown to be like real people 
in that they hover between the impulse to have form and the theatrical form itself; and 
Tonight We Improvise (1930), in which scenic creation is equated to self-creation. 

In the final chapter, entitled “Pirandello: the One and the Many,” the critic 
describes the author as a man who constantly saw consciousness as the only source 
that generates value, but also as one who viewed self-creation as tragic because of the 
tormenting tension existing between movement and form. Pirandello had various 
responses to this disquieting state of affairs. Late in his career he proposed the 
possibility of extreme detachment, a state not to be confused with true pantheism, 
which has supernatural connotations, as Caputi explains, but rather one to be 
understood as a passive sinking into the flux of life. However, the critic reminds us 
that Pirandello generally found “the possibility for unity and heightened value not in 
passivity but in a consciousness quickened by that power of imaginative beholding 
that he found chiefly in art” (133). Caputi also speaks of the failure in Pirandello 
criticism to see the Sicilian author as he really was. It was a mistake, for example, to 
view him as a problem solver, a dilettante casuist, or a thinker rather than an artist. 
And in the concluding paragraphs Caputi reiterates his conviction that Pirandello was 
basically a man and an artist who wanted to present his Weltanschauung: a vision of 
reality according to which one should face life with honesty, dignity, and even with 
wonder. 

A superb effort by an Italian-American scholar not previously known as a 
Pirandellist, this study contains several inaccuracies, some of which may admittedly 
be simple typographical errors. For example, when Pirandello was told in 1934 that 
he had won the Nobel Prize for literature, he repeatedly typed the word “pagliacciate” 


400 Reviews and Notes 


(‘not “pagliaccetta” 103). The male protagonist in the short story A Horse in the 
Moon (1907) is not “Nind” (134) but “Nino.” Caputi calls the lawyer in the novel A 
Place in Line (1915) “Cird” (43) instead of “Ciro.” Moreover, Caputi capitalizes 
Italian titles as if they were English, apparently ignoring the convention of leaving 
all but the first word and proper nouns in lower case. Furthermore, although the book 
was published in 1988, the most recent date in the citations is 1981. Understandably, 
therefore, Caputi did not take into consideration more recent studies dealing directly 
or indirectly with the crisis of consciousness, such as Elio Gioanola’s Pirandello e la 
follia (Genova: Il Melangolo, 1983) and the numerous collections of essays 
published in the mid 80s, e.g., Pirandello e la cultura del suo tempo (ed. S. Milioto 
and E. Scrivano, Milano: Mursia, 1984); L’enigma Pirandello. Atti del congresso 
internazionale Ottawa, 24-26 ottobre 1986 (ed. A. Alessio, C. Persi Haines, L. G. 
Sbrocchi, Ottawa: The Canadian Society for Italian studies, 1986); and Pirandello 
1986. Atti del simposio internazionale (Universita di California, Berkeley, 13-15 
marzo 1986), ed. G. P. Biasin and N. J. Perella (Roma: Bulzoni, 1987). Also some 
earlier studies that spawned important critical ideas which seem to have influenced 
Caputi were left uncited, notably Arcangelo Leone de Castris’s Storia di Pirandello 
(Bari: Laterza, 1971), Guido Guglielmi’s “Mondo di carta” in Ironia e negazione 
(Torino: Einaudi, 1974), and Enzo Lauretta’s Luigi Pirandello. Storia di un 
personaggio “fuori chiave” (Milano: Mursia, 1980). 

Notwithstanding these few desiderata, Caputi’s lucid study — the only such work 
in English — should be useful to scholars and students who may not be conversant 
with the broad range of Pirandello criticism and wish to be introduced to the 
challenging poetics of the 1934 Nobel Prize laureate. Caputi’s book may not be 
regarded as a momentous milestone in Pirandello scholarship, but it will surely help 
realize the critic’s avowed goal: to dispel the mistaken notion, outside Italy, that the 
Sicilian author was solely “a master ironist who wrote largely about the mind and its 
quirky paradoxes” (1). 

Giovanni R. Bussino, Burbank, California 


Anthony J. Tamburri. Of Saltimbanchi and Incendiari: Aldo 
Palazzeschi and Avant-Gardism in Italy. Madison, NJ: Farleigh 
Dickinson UP; London and Toronto: Associated UP, 1990. 


Lo studio di Tamburri analizza la prima parte delle opere di Palazzeschi in particolare 
in rapporto al principale movimento italiano d’avanguardia a lui contemporaneo, 11 
futurismo, sottolineando come il tema ricorrente della diversita dell’uomo e della 
reversibilita della sorte umana siano i temi di fondo della maggior parte dei lavori di 
Palazzeschi. Per questi, infatti, il paradigma della diversita costituisce il marchio che 
caratterizza l’eroe moderno e che lo pone in uno stato di continua lotta contro il 
dogmatismo e la rigidita del codice di comportamento collettivo. Questo 
atteggiamento si estende al poeta stesso. Palazzeschi rifiuta di prendersi sul serio nel 
momento in cui sceglie di non accettare il ruolo di poeta-vate che una tradizione 
vetero-carducciana sembra imporgli, definendosi, invece, secondo un verso rimasto 
celebre, come “il saltimbanco dell’anima mia” (Palazzeschi, “Chi sono?”, in 


Reviews and Notes 401 


Tamburri 74). 
Tamburri discute |’appartenenza di Palazzeschi alle correnti del crepuscolarismo e 
del futurismo, dapprima attraverso l’analisi dei suoi primi manifesti — J] 


controdolore (1914), Varieta (1915), Equilibrio (1915)— fino alla tarda revisione 
dell’Antidolore (1956), mettendo in evidenza come in quest’ultimo alle revisioni di 
carattere stilistico si accompagni la conquista di una nuova dimensione di 
consapevolezza sociale e come la profezia del sovvertimento si unisca all’auspicato 
raggiungimento di una dimensione ludica, piacevole, edonistica, fermo restando il 
disprezzo per il romanticume di una tradizione asfittica: “Via i vecchi poeti 
brontoloni. . . . Apollo avra il gozzo. . . . Venere di nove mesi gravida, o con un 
immenso deretano si scaccolera, e le tre Grazie si gratteranno infuriate la rogna” 
(Palazzeschi, L’ antidolore, in Tamburri 63). 

Appare gia chiaro dall’analisi dei manifesti come Palazzeschi rifiuti di 
sottomettersi alla serieta della vita e, seguendo la strada della parodia biblica, arrivi a 
capovolgere le coordinate del rispetto sociale, per cui un rovesciamento comico, che 
Tamburri giustamente definisce attraverso un rimando alle categorie bachtiniane, fa si 
che “la beghina ricevera la cocotte fra le sue braccia . . . . e il proletario si trovera fra 
le braccia del capitalista” (Palazzeschi, L’ antidolore, in Tamburri 65). Il riso viene 
visto come un principio liberatore e dissacrante. Cosi ]’atteggiamento di Palazzeschi 
viene paragonato a quello di Bergson, in rapporto al quale tuttavia il riso 
palazzeschiano assume un valore ancor pill radicale di negazione delle norme sociali e 
del valore della trascendenza: Dio viene visto come un omettino che gioca con le sue 
creazioni “ridendo a crepapelle” (Palazzeschi, [1 codice, in Tamburmi 33). 

Tamburri analizza anche il rapporto fra l’ars poetica palazzeschiana e le teorie 
nietschiane, facendo notare come, sebbene sia legittimo considerare 1’influenza di 
Nietzsche su Palazzeschi, anche importante tenere presente che quest’ultimo non 
vede i suoi seguaci potenziali come un gruppo selezionato di superuomini ma 
nemmeno esclude la possibilita che tutti prendano parte al suo nuovo stile di vita. Per 
questo la rivolta anarchica di Palazzeschi finisce per presentare una pil’ marcata 
analogia con quella del gruppo surrealista (35), per il quale anche Dio costituiva uno 
dei maggiori ostacoli alla realizzazione della propria potenzialita interiore. 

Nel secondo capitolo il libro procede verso un’analisi tematica e stilistica dei 
primi esperimenti poetici di Palazzeschi, dalla poesia “Chi sono” (1909) alla raccolta 
Incendiario (1910), cercando di verificare le innegabili suggestioni futuriste o 
crepuscolari, ma anche avanzando |’ipotesi di un legame con il surrealismo (73). Di 
qui l’attenzione del lettore viene guidata verso quelle poesie che segnano lo sviluppo 
della riflessione metapoetica sia in termini di parodia del canone tradizionale, cioé di 
negazione di quegli artifici retorici che formano il comune bagaglio stilistico del 
poeta tradizionale, sia in termini di reinvenzione del ruolo o della figura del poeta: 
“Buon lavoro poeta! E una gran puttanata! E una bella trovata!” (Palazzeschi, “Una 
cosina”, in Tamburri 119). L’affrancamento di Palazzeschi dal futurismo, sostiene 
Tamburri, era gia completo nel 1914 (120). Quindi, il suo andare verso una 
distruzione dell’ordine grammaticale della frase, il cui nonsenso cede il posto a una 
potenzialita semantica determinata dal gioco dei fonemi, @ piuttosto il frutto di 
un’ influenza dell’ambiente parigino nel quale Palazzeschi si era calato assorbendone 
le tendenze pit vitali e subendo 1’influenza di Apollinaire, Archipenko, Picasso, o di 
quegli italiani, come Boccioni, Carra e Modigliani, che in quegli anni trovavano 


402 Reviews and Notes 


Parigi assai pit stimolante dell’ Italia. 

Il terzo capitolo analizza JI codice di Perela, antiromanzo (futurista) del 1911, 
sottolineandone |’antirealismo e la tendenza verso |’allegoria. Dopo aver brevemente 
discusso le nozioni di romanzo e di antiromanzo, Tamburri propende per una 
definizione del Codice di Perela come antiromanzo, di cui analizza la peculiare 
funzione compositiva, nella quale alle parti dialogate viene riservato un posto 
privilegiato a tal punto da eliminare quasi totalmente il discorso in terza persona. In 
questo modo si sottolinea la componente dialogica del lavoro e si elimina per il 
lettore la possibilita di un distanziamento critico o storico-prospettico. Dal punto di 
vista tematico la storia di Perela, l1’uomo di fumo che viene accolto dalla folla 
osannante come un messia e che in seguito viene imprigionato, disconosciuto e 
costretto all’esilio, prosegue sviluppando la tematica (fondamentale nella poetica 
palazzeschiana) della leggerezza sia fisica che spirituale. E proprio perché la folla 
non puo capirla che attribuisce a Perela virtt eccezionali che in realta lui non ha. 
All’inizio, infatti, egli @ stimato da tutti uomo saggio e gli viene chiesto di dettare il 
nuovo codice; in seguito, perd, la folla si rivolta contro di lui, costringendolo 
all’esilio. 

Tamburri sottolinea come Perela si affianchi ad una ben pit estesa galleria 
palazzeschiana di “diversi” e di “incendiari” sociali, sia precedenti che susseguenti 
alla stesura di questo romanzo, e chiarisce come la leggerezza, intesa non solo come 
irresponsabilita ma soprattutto come capacita di non prendersi sul serio, sia 
caratteristica degli eroi palazzeschiani, che riassumono in sé la lotta della gioia e del 
gioco contro il dolore dell’esistenza umana. 

Elena Urgnani, Wheaton College 


Eugenio Montale. Poesie. A c. di Angelo Marchese. Milano: 
Mondadori, 1991. Pp. 354. 


Una scelta delle pit’ significative e conosciute poesie di Eugenio Montale viene 
prospettata da Angelo Marchese in un volume edito da Mondadori, sezione per la 
scuola, dove Marchese gia ha pubblicato diversi libri come sussidio per gli studenti. 

Il titolo semplice di Poesie dice quanto sia valido questo libro, che propone non 
tanto le pit belle liriche del Novecento, firmate dal poeta ligure, quanto le stesse 
accompagnate da sussidi critici di uno tra i pit valenti cultori della critica stilistica e 
semiologica. Infatti Marchese propone questi testi montaliani sotto il sigillo di 
alcuni tra i migliori modi di esaminare la poesia di Montale, quello appunto che 
sviscera e disseziona il testo, per entrare nel vivo della fucina poetica di Montale, 
quindi ricomponendo poi le varie “parti” in un tutto unico, capace di dar conto, nella 
seconda lettura, dei meccanismi e dei segreti linguistici e tecnici e stilistici di una 
poesia tra le pit valide del nostro secolo. 

Marchese offre dunque un profilo della poesia e della personalita del poeta 
attraverso l’esame delle prime raccolte, mettendo a confronto la filosofia montaliana 
con la scelta lessicale appropriata a far emergere quella filosofia nei versi: e poi 
confrontando testi e critica, quella pid ufficiale, che negli anni ha accompagnato la 
poesia di Montale nel suo evolversi. C’é di pit: in “Appendice” Marchese — rendendo 


Reviews and Notes 403 


palese una lettera di Montale — appiana un passo controverso del testo “Notizie 
dell’ Amiata” rendendo valida una interpretazione di quel testo 14 dove alcuni critici 
erano inciampati in interpretazioni sterili. 

Dal volume di Marchese esce dunque un Montale “nuovo” capace di richiamare per 
il lettore quei significati che la sua poesia al primo apparire aveva lasciato solo 
intuire, meglio analizzata ora per intendere nel profondo significato quei moduli e 
quei temi che hanno fatto di Montale uno dei pil vivi interpreti della coscienza 
novecentesca. Qui abbiamo il Montale del dolore cosmico, ma anche il poeta del 
nulla, dell’insofferenza amara del caos della vita moderna cosi come il poeta degli 
oggetti magici, delle “occasioni” che fanno pensare alla soglia d’infinito che sta 
dietro |’apparente quotidianita delle cose e dei gesti umani. 

Le qualita formali che Marchese evidenzia dunque in questo suo libro sono 
termini appropriati per comprendere e leggere a fondo di nuovo Montale, in una 
prospettiva moderna ma anche in quella situazione che per Marchese lega contenuti, 
stile e motivi a scelte formali e lessicali. 

Giancarlo Pandini, Cremona, Italy 


Romano Luperini. L’allegoria del moderno. Saggi sull’allegorismo 
come forma artistica del moderno e come metodo di conoscenza. 
Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1990. Pp. 352. 


L’allegoria di cui si occupa Romano Luperini non é certamente quella di cui hanno 
discusso Charles S. Singleton per il Medioevo dantesco o Steven Greenblatt per il 
Rinascimento inglese: tanto queste sono “piene”, significative e totalizzanti, quanto 
quella @ “vuota”, priva di significati prestabiliti, frammentata, precaria. L’unico 
elemento che le collega, si direbbe, resta quello della distensione nel tempo, della 
narrativita comunque esemplare di una storia (quello che Frank Kermode ha definito, 
con voluta ed efficace anfibologia, “the sense of an ending”). 

L’allegoria di Luperini non é perd soltanto una “forma artistica”, ma anche un 
“metodo di conoscenza”, come specifica il sottotitolo: quindi il titolo del volume ha 
un duplice significato, soggettivo e oggettivo insieme (esattamente come avveniva 
per Jl romanzo del Novecento di Giacomo Debenedetti), e questa duplicita @ riflessa 
nella organizzazione del testo, diviso in una prima parte teorica-metodologica, e in 
una seconda parte di applicazioni pratiche a testi del Novecento italiano, da Marinetti 
a Slataper, da Tozzi a Saba a Pierro (nei quali si articola la “crisi del simbolismo”), e 
poi da Pirandello e D’Annunzio a Gadda e Montale, con una postilla sull’ultimo 
Volponi (sui quali @ possibile costruire “una linea allegorica del Novecento”). 

L’allegoria di Luperini si avvicina maggiormente, dunque, a quella metodologica 
e post-strutturalista corrente nella critica contemporanea (si pensi a Paul De Man, 
senza pero dimenticare Fredric Jameson o Robert Jauss); ma occorre tenere sempre 
presente il dato fondamentale che Luperini arriva all’allegoria partendo da una pratica 
critica marxista, esercitata a lungo e con risultati notevoli soprattutto sui testi 
verghiani (e infatti si veda in proposito il pit recente dei suoi contributi, Simbolo e 
costruzione allegorica in Verga, Bologna: Il Mulino, 1989), e che tale pratica critica 
era derivata in particolare da una profonda consuetudine con l’ideologia di Georg 


404 Reviews and Notes 


Lukacs. 

In realta molte pagine della prima parte, teorica, di L’allegoria del moderno, 
sono dedicate a un recupero, che sarebbe faticoso se non fosse brillante com’é, degli 
aspetti ancora rilevanti dell’ideologia lukacsiana, un recupero che si pone come 
alternativa alla preminenza di Heidegger sulla scena filosofica contemporanea e che 
viene effettuato con il tramite assolutamente indispensabile di Walter Benjamin — il 
Benjamin, in particolare, dei saggi su Baudelaire e su Parigi capitale del 
diciannovesimo secolo. E anche troppo noto che Lukacs non amava il moderno e che 
preferiva il simbolo all’allegoria, esattamente all’opposto di Benjamin: Luperini 
riesce quasi a riconciliare i suoi due numi tutelari, ritrovando fra le pieghe testuali del 
primo quei passi o quegli accenni che possono convivere, pur rispettandone le 
differenze, con le intuizioni sempre taglienti e attuali del secondo. 

Ma il pregio forse maggiore di tutta la prima parte dell’opera di Luperini consiste 
nel confronto sottile e capillare con le posizioni pit rilevate della critica 
contemporanea, italiana e straniera, e nella discussione di idee, di metodi, di visioni 
del mondo che tale confronto, se condotto con serieta e rigore, esige. Tutto il 
discorso di Luperini é volto a instaurare una “ermeneutica materialistica” che implica 
il coinvolgimento della realta concreta extratestuale sia nell’atto creativo che in 
quello critico. Vi é dunque in L’allegoria del moderno una dichiarata e lucida diffidenza 
verso Derrida (non a torto bollato, via Gadamer, di “sofistica”, 84), ma anche verso la 
eccessiva istituzionalizzazione della comunita interpretativa di Stanley Fish; e vi é 
una forte e pur garbata polemica, in particolare in area italiana, con Agosti (perché 
privilegia il significante a danno dell’elemento referenziale e pragmatico), ma 
sorprendentemente anche con Eco (che privilegia il significato letterale, dice 
Luperini, escludendo il contesto: ma la cosa mi sembra alquanto discutibile, 
specialmente se si considera la semiotica pratica di Eco, in cui la “cooperazione 
interpretativa” si risolve spesso proprio in atteggiamento critico e demistificante). E 
neppure vanno dimenticate, in questo contesto, le molte pagine di puntigliose 
precisazioni riguardanti lo storicismo semiologico di Segre. 

Comunque Luperini insiste con ragione sulla necessita di collegare intimamente 
la semantica all’interpretazione, e basa quest’ultima sulla presa in considerazione 
delle circostanze e degli elementi materiali, storici e sociali delle manifestazioni 
artistiche da un lato, e dei loro fruitori dall’altro. Si spiega cosi, fra ]’altro, la 
tensione conoscitiva di un testo che continua a essere significativo, cioé a rinnovare 
il proprio messaggio anche ideologico, anni e secoli dopo la sua prima apparizione. 
Il capitolo su Benjamin e, in misura minore, quello su Bachtin sono esemplari in 
proposito: Luperini giustamente individua nei due critici i capisaldi di un versante 
critico del pensiero moderno fondato sulla “razionalita comunicativa” e sulla 
“dialettica del dialogo”, veri e propri “baluardi di difesa contro ogni tentazione di 
ipostatizzazione ontologica e metafisica della verita cosi come contro ogni deriva 
nichilistica” (118). 

Nel breve spazio di una recensione non é possibile dar conto dettagliatatamente 
della ricchezza di intuizioni e di materiali critici di L’allegoria del moderno; ma vale 
forse la pena sottolineare la presa di posizione implicita nella scelta del termine 
“moderno”, che per Luperini include anche il postmoderno in quanto “la vera svolta 
epocale non si é avuta negli anni Cinquanta di questo secolo, ma nei primi decenni di 
quello scorso” (4), con la rivoluzione industriale e 1’affermazione del capitalismo: la 


Reviews and Notes 405 


rivoluzione elettronica e informatica @ certamente alla base di una fase dello sviluppo 
del moderno che “pud anche essere definita postmoderno, ma cid non significa affatto 
che le forme critiche elaborate dalla modernita siano inadeguate alla comprensione del 
presente” (5). Non so se Luperini, dato il prolungarsi del dibattito in corso in 
proposito, consideri la sua posizione definitiva o meno: essa @ comunque 
assolutamente centrale per il concetto stesso di allegoria e per il presente volume. 

Fra i saggi applicativi della seconda parte, mi pare che il capitolo decimo, 
“Allegorismo versus simbolismo: Pirandello e D’Annunzio novellieri”, sia quello che 
pit lucidamente e pill persuasivamente illustra e delinea la dialettica e la differenza fra 
due modi diversi di concepire il mondo e la scrittura. Da un lato, D’Annunzio 
rappresenta “]’esigenza simbolista di cogliere per sineddoche l’essenza del creato, di 
ritrovare nel dettaglio il palpito dell’universale. La ‘terra vergine’ é, nel medesimo 
tempo, uno scenario naturale, un condizionamento naturalistico e un simbolo” (207); 
dall’altro, Pirandello “si rifiuta alla sineddoche” (209), cioé esprime 1’esigenza 
allegorica di non evadere “da un orizzonte pragmatico-sociale” (205) in cui “il 
particolare cessa di far parte di un disegno collettivo” (209), ma in cui resta l’esigenza 
di una razionalita e di una comunicativita pragmatiche, appunto, e relativistiche, “‘al 
di 14 delle opposte ma complementari ontologie della Verita e del Nulla” (219). 

Anche il capitolo undicesimo, sulle tematiche del moderno in Pirandello 
romanziere, @ ricco di spunti e di analisi importanti, come il confronto fra Mattia 
Pascal e Vitangelo Moscarda. Altrettanto riusciti e convincenti il capitolo 
dodicesimo, “La ‘costruzione’ della ’cognizione’ in Gadda”, e tredicesimo, “Note 
sull’allegorismo poetico novecentesco. I] caso di Montale”, collegati anche 
tematicamente e testualmente dalla presenza di stilemi montaliani nei testi gaddiani, 
dall’interesse critico dimostrato da Gadda per Montale fin dagli esordi, e dagli esiti 
convergenti dei due autori, esiti che nelle pagine di Luperini vanno dall’antilirismo 
alla contaminazione linguistica (“il tonfo del sublime nel comico”, 261), dalla 
diminutio (non solo antiaulica ma antipoetica) all’autocitazione parodica, dalla 
frammentarieta alla costruzione di allegorie se non “vuote” (come le definiva Lukacs) 
certo precarie, e dunque moderne. 

Non per nulla, a conclusione di un’analisi puntuale e persuasiva di una delle 
ultime poesie di Montale intitolata “Schiappino”, che apparentemente non ha senso, 
Luperini cita un’altra poesia montaliana da Altri versi, “L’allegoria”, che dice: “Tl 
senso del costrutto non é chiaro / neppure per coloro che riguarda” (294), “un testo 
persino esplicativo dell’allegorismo moderno” (295). Davvero, il senso del costrutto 
non é affatto chiaro per tutti noi che viviamo la nostra epoca cercando di decifrarne il 
garbuglio e cercando di trovarvi o di attribuirvi un senso. Ma questo non vuol dire che 
dobbiamo smettere la ricerca o arrenderci all’insignificanza: e nel campo della critica 
letteraria, il libro di Luperini @ un contributo davvero significativo (e ricchissimo di 
possibilita dialogiche) in questa ricerca che non deve finire. 


Gian Paolo Biasin, University of California at Berkeley 


406 Reviews and Notes 


Ezio Raimondi. Le poetiche della modernita in Italia. Milano: 
Garzanti, 1990. Pp. 131. 


Nei tre saggi di cui si compone l’opera (peraltro gia apparsi come introduzione al 
volume sul Novecento nella Storia della letteratura italiana diretta da Emilio Cecchi e 
Natalino Sapegno, Milano, 1987), l’autore ci conduce nel labirinto delle idee e dei 
movimenti del Novecento partendo da un tentativo di identificazione delle “origini” 
che oscilla fra l’interessante suggerimento romantico-intuitivo di Virginia Woolf in 
Mr. Bennett and Mrs. Brown (“. . . il mutamento sarebbe accaduto nella letteratura 
non meno che nella religione, nel modo di vita e nella politica, ‘intorno all’anno 
1910’, in corrispondenza con il modificarsi di ‘tutti i rapporti umani, quelli fra 
padroni e servitt, mariti e mogli, genitori e figli’” 11) e la valutazione assai pit 
complessa e articolata “da filosofo e da critico” fatta dal Croce nel suo scritto Di un 
carattere della pik recente letteratura italiana, in cui le radici del Novecento vengono 
fatte risalire molto pit indietro, addirittura alla meta del secolo diciannovesimo (11). 

Ansia di rinnovamento, violento ripudio degli stereotipi; nazionalismo 
esacerbato, vittimismo, profondo senso di colpa e di inferiorita per un lungo passato 
di schiavitt politica; glorificazione della macchina, del movimento, della violenza, 
della guerra; graduale accettazione del giornalismo come modo nuovo e pertinente di 
fare della letteratura; presa di coscienza del profondo divario sociale fra Nord e Sud; 
idea dell’arte come avvenimento; ruolo sempre pil importante del pubblico come 
utente dell’opera d’arte; esigenza di sfondare le convenzioni per arrivare a una pill 
autentica percezione della condizione umana; anarchismo e conformismo; decadenza e 
bisogno di elevazione spirituale; deliberato rifiuto dei canoni linguistici classico- 
arcadici e disperato tentativo di ristabilire un contatto costruttivo con il passato; 
slancio vitale e morbosa attrazione per la malattia, la corruzione e la morte: tutte 
queste e molte altre sono le istanze che percorrono il secolo, e che 1’autore ci illustra 
in rapida successione nelle poche pagine di questo libretto. 

I nomi delle figure pit’ rappresentative si susseguono, si intrecciano, si 
accavallano con un procedimento per accenni e allusioni che richiede da parte del 
lettore un certo lavoro di riordinamento. Raimondi ci mostra vari aspetti del 
labirinto, le citazioni abbondano, sfilano davanti a noi Prezzolini, Croce, Marinetti, 
Papini, Borgese e compagnia, ma il tessuto connettivo diventa a volte molto tenue. 
Forse cosi dev’essere trattandosi di un’eta che é ancora troppo vicina a noi, e la cui 
fisionomia non é definita. Ma il discorso critico si fa pit’ chiaro e lineare quando 
l’autore nella terza parte, “Scrittori e lettori in una societa industriale”, affronta il 
tema delle poetiche pit recenti. La crisi della letteratura che si era preannunciata nei 
decenni precedenti in concomitanza con il profondo malessere spirituale e sociale 
delle varie culture europee, esplode in forma tangibile e con proprie caratteristiche in 
Italia, dopo la fine della prima guerra mondiale, quando il letterato si trova a dover 
fare i conti con la societa industriale che lo attornia delimitandogli sempre pit lo 
spazio operativo e costringendolo a una revisione totale dei valori. Come osservava 
Citati: “. . . il mondo moderno abolisce implacabilmente, l’una dopo 1’altra, tutte le 
distinzioni e le mediazioni che si sono formate nel tempo. Alla societa letteraria non 
lascia pit lo spazio sufficiente per vivere e prender respiro” (92). 

Ma proprio questo scontro brutale con la nuova realta industriale, intensificato 
ulteriormente con la fine della seconda guerra mondiale, doveva favorire quella 





Reviews and Notes 407 


rinascita in senso europeo che era stata una delle aspirazioni pil’ vive degli 
intellettuali italiani sin dall’inizio del Novecento. 

Montale, Ungaretti, Quasimodo, Saba, Moravia, Gadda, Calvino, Pasolini ed Eco 
sono coloro che hanno saputo, facendo tesoro delle faticose sperimentazioni e delle 
delusioni delle generazioni precedenti, ridare alla letteratura italiana la capacita a 
lungo paralizzata, di dialogare con 1’Europa e con |’occidente. 

Con il neorealismo dell’immediato dopoguerra (spentosi rapidamente per una 
sorta di anemia ideologica, ma fermento ancora vivo come testimonianza storica e 
ideologica), con opere come Gli indifferenti, Conversazione in Sicilia, La cognizione 
del dolore, e pit: recentemente I nome della rosa (per citarne solo alcune) e con la sua 
raffinata e moderna produzione poetica |’Italia si reinseriva nel circuito europeo a 
pieno diritto. 

Clavio Ascari, Mary Washington College 


Alfredo Bonadeo. Mark of the Beast: Death and Degradation in the 
Literature of the Great War. Lexington: The U P of Kentucky, 1989. 
Pp. val +172. 


Attraverso un’abbondante documentazione, l’autore esamina i significati e le 
conseguenze della prima guerra mondiale. Il conflitto appare subito senza precedenti 
per la vastita del teatro d’operazioni, per i mezzi e le tecnologie impiegate e per 
l’immane sacrificio di vite umane. Senza precedenti é anche il modo in cui l’impresa 
bellica venne predicata o osteggiata. Fu un’operazione su vasta scala che coinvolse 
tutta l’Europa e che vide gl’intellettuali direttamente impegnati a sostenere o a 
condannare la guerra, o semplicemente a descriverne il volto incomprensibile e 
feroce. 

Una delle spinte decisive allo scoppio del conflitto la diedero proprio gli 
intellettuali con la loro insistenza sulla decadenza morale della societa, sulla perdita 
di ogni valore, sulla necessita di curare una grave malattia sociale ed esistenziale che 
minacciava di paralizzare e persino di annientare il mondo occidentale. 

Per Thomas Mann si trattava di metter fine a una pace ignominiosa, pullulante di 
miseria, di corruzione e di decadenza (35). Contro il malessere sociale, contro la 
pigrizia del quieto vivere borghese si levava la voce rauca degli interventisti, che in 
nome di un vitalismo purificatore, predicavano |’annientamento, la distruzione e la 
morte. 

Le argomentazioni degli interventisti italiani erano quelle che pit insistevano su 
una catena di colpe storiche e sociali che il popolo italiano doveva espiare attraverso 
la guerra per diventare degno di sedere con pari prestigio nel consesso dei popoli 
europei. E triste e tragico vedere grossi nomi dell’élite culturale italiana succubi del 
gioco sinistro che da premesse critiche pid o meno valide sulla condizione di un 
popolo — una diagnosi parziale e alquanto semplificata — passavano poi a suggerire 
una terapia d’urto che con la malattia rischiava di mettere in serio pericolo anche il 
paziente. 

Per Benedetto Croce “‘se |’Italia fosse rimasta fuori dalla guerra, il paese avrebbe 
mostrato ancora una volta la propria inettitudine, e una volta che gli altri avessero 


408 Reviews and Notes 


combattuto la guerra, si sarebbe trovato moralmente pit’ debole di quanto non fosse 
prima” (56). 

Secondo Paolo Marconi e molti altri “il vero scopo della guerra era di cancellare 
la vergogna ereditata dal Risorgimento. . . . I] Risorgimento non poteva essere visto 
come un successo politico perché solo un numero esiguo di italiani . . . aveva lottato 
per la liberta e l’unita, perché erano stati la buona sorte e lo straniero, non gia le 
risorse proprie dell’Italia, a permettere il raggiungimento della liberta e dell’unita . . 
. (57): 

Il “bagno di sangue” auspicato da Giovanni Papini e da un coro di altre voci, 
doveva lavare le colpe vere o presunte degli italiani. Dalla denuncia delle colpe si 
passava con paurosa facilita alla glorificazione della guerra, della morte, del 
genocidio. Anche per Gadda la guerra doveva essere insieme una punizione per il 
decadimento morale degli italiani e la fonte della loro rinascita come popolo (69). 

Una frenetica orgia verbale di violenza e di sangue percorre le pagine dei 
futuristi, dei nazionalisti e dei vociani, il cui cinismo tocca il limite della follia, della 
estraniazione dal denominatore umano. Come notava Eugenio Garin, “con la loro 
tragica irresponsabilita . . . volonta criminale . . . e sciocca retorica” i fautori della 
guerra ne travisavano la cruda natura, celebrandola come unico strumento di 
redenzione (59). 

La denuncia dei vizi nazionali aveva in molti casi un fondo di verita, ma ad essa 
non corrispondeva un’analisi storica e sociale che permettesse di identificarne le 
cause molteplici e complesse. Con un’assurda operazione sacrificale si caricavano le 
colpe sulla vittima, sul popolo, dimenticando le gravi responsabilita delle classi 
dirigenti, e si pretende che il popolo, all’oscuro di tutto, pagasse da solo e per intero 
il prezzo del riscatto. 

Ma la guerra, che avrebbe dovuto in teoria ripristinare 1’umanita perduta, non si 
poteva combattere senza perdere rapidamente ogni vestigio di civile umanita. A 
questo proposito, favorevoli o contrari alla guerra, tutti convenivano che la vita del 
fronte produceva nel combattente una metamorfosi psicologica quasi sempre 
irreversibile: “lo sperpero [di vite umane] trasformava l’uomo in un essere inferiore, e 
il prezzo che pagava per il valore e la sopravvivenza era la degradazione” (2). Quei 
deboli guizzi di umanita che avessero resistito, erano obliterati dall’alcol che veniva 
generosamente distribuito alle truppe prima dell’assalto per alimentare il loro 
“eroismo”, o meglio per “dare loro la forza di attaccare il nemico quando le 
probabilita di salvezza erano minime” (9). Fu proprio la figura dell’eroe tradizionale 
che scomparve definitivamente dalla scena della storia, in un processo di 
ripiegamento totale della coscienza su se stessa. Come notava lo storico Adolfo 
Omodeo, partito volontario nel 1915, la morte non poteva generare nessuna 
esaltazione, e la sua onnipresenza metteva subito in fuga ogni forma di idealismo o di 
entusiasmo. Era “l’atroce spasimo fisico” della paura che spingeva il soldato ad 
assalire le posizioni nemiche, e non il coraggio, secondo il luogotenente Attilio 
Frescura. “Tl vero coraggioso é il disertore, che retrocede ben sapendo che se catturato 
verra processato e dovra perdere quella vita che cercava di salvare” (115). 

Se dai ranghi degli intellettuali venivano le esaltazioni pit: sfrenate e disumane 
della guerra e della strage, da quegli stessi ranghi, benché da persone diverse, 
venivano anche parole decise di ammonimento e di condanna. 

Bertrand Russell osservava che in ogni uomo “sonnecchia una bestia selvaggia . 


Reviews and Notes 409 


. .ma le persone civili sanno che non le si deve permettere di destarsi”, perché coloro 
che ne diventano preda perdono ogni rispetto di sé, e la loro vita @ per sempre 
rovinata. Una volta che la bestia si risveglia essa rende gli uomini “cinici e disperati, 
privandoli del coraggio di vedere i fatti per quello che sono, e della speranza di 
cambiare le cose in meglio. La guerra perpetra questo assassinio morale nell’anima di 
milioni e milioni di combattenti, ogni giorno molti passano sotto il dominio della 
fiera con azioni che uccidono quanto di meglio vi é in loro” (23). 

Mentre molti (Papini, Croce, De Robertis, Marinetti, Prezzolini, Corradini, ecc.) 
ripetevano con lugubre insistenza la spietata litania delle colpe morali degli italiani 
inneggiando alla guerra che con la violenza e lo sterminio doveva nobilitare 1’Italia, 
altri, anche fra gli stessi ufficiali al fronte, davano una valutazione ben diversa degli 
avvenimenti. 

L’aiutante di campo del generale Luigi Cadorna, Angelo Gatti, a proposito dei 
pesanti attacchi rivolti contro gli italiani dalla propaganda interventista e degli 
ossessivi incitamenti alla guerra, annotava nel proprio diario che era “come cercare di 
ridare la forza a una persona malata di polmonite (1’Italia); che prima occorreva curare 
la polmonite” (76). La guerra, aggiungeva, non ha il potere di migliorare la gente, e 
tanto meno gli italiani, che stavano attraversando una “crisi di crescita. . . . credere 
che un popolo possa acquistare vigore attraverso la guerra é criminale e idiota” (76). 

In Un anno sull'altipiano, Emilio Lussu riferisce una conversazione tra ufficiali 
avvenuta dopo un tentativo di ribellione da parte delle truppe, subito sedato senza 
l’uso della forza. Le parole del tenente Ottolenghi riferite da Lussu sono un documento 
importante, perché esse, scavalcando l’ostacolo della propaganda e del fanatismo, 
tracciano un quadro della situazione italiana che contiene un’agghiacciante condanna 
della classe dirigente, prima responsabile dei mali che affliggono il paese: i] nemico 
del soldato italiano non é al di 14 del filo spinato, ma alle sue spalle. “Bisognerebbe 
cominciare a sparare” dice Ottolenghi, “al comandante di divisione . . . e poi risalire 
tutta la gerarchia . . . fino a Roma. La si trova il quartier generale nemico” (93-94). 

La letteratura del periodo della Grande Guerra é percorsa da un morboso fremito di 
morte che raggiunge forse l’apice nell’opera di D’Annunzio, specialmente nelle 
pagine del Notturno. Ad essa si contrappone la voce limpida e appassionata di 
Ungaretti, che si rifiuta di cedere al morbo della morte e celebra invece la continuita e 
il trionfo della vita. 

In queste pagine l’autore, che @ docente di letteratura italiana all’Universita della 
California a Santa Barbara, si attiene a un tono piacevole e discorsivo che ben si 
concilia con la presentazione obiettiva dei fatti e delle testimonianze. 

Clavio Ascari, Mary Washington College 


Contemporary Women Writers in Italy: A Modern Renaissance. Ed. 
Santo L. Aricd. Amherst: The U of Massachusetts P, 1990. Pp. 238. 


L’opera curata da Santo Aricd presenta una valida scelta di saggi su autrici italiane alle 
quali la critica, nonostante l’indubbia consistenza tematica e la varieta degli stili, 
nori ha, in Italia o all’estero, concesso lo spazio meritato. II libro supplisce quindi a 
una carenza sentita nel campo dell’italianistica da coloro che vogliano raggiungere 


410 Reviews and Notes 


una visione panoramica di un secolo ricco quant’ altri mai nella produzione femminile. 

Rocco Capozzi apre la raccolta e richiama l’attenzione sulle poesie della 
Morante, Alibi, pubblicate nel 1958 e sul fatto che in Nove domande sul romanzo la 
scrittrice usa esplicitamente la parola “alibi” ad indicare il suo rapporto con la realta e 
con i narratori-protagonisti dei suoi romanzi. Queste poesie rivelano il dramma di una 
vita e di un’opera in cui il narcisismo é motivo centrale. Andrea, Anna, Elisa, Arturo 
sono innamorati dell’amore, quell’amore che fin dai primi anni, o perché negato o 
mal offerto, crea conseguenze irreparabili. “Per troppo amore io divenni misantropa” 
scrive la Morante (21), e poco prima di morire, durante |’intervista con Jean-Noél 
Schifano, riconfermava la sua costante ricerca dell’amore, inferno e paradiso, e 
l’aspetto autobiografico della sua produzione. 

Corinna del Greco Lobner analizza l’opera della Ginzburg e la vede disincantata 
sui costumi sociali, senza speranza sul futuro della famiglia, in un mondo senza 
illusioni. Anche se parole e azioni hanno un’impronta dipendente dalla sessualita 
dell’individuo, gli uomini non sono né peggiori né migliori delle donne, e il 
femminismo nasce per lei da un complesso d’inferiorita. Le opere della Ginzburg sono 
analizzate nella peculiarita del suo stile: la ripetizione segnica permette, a detta della 
Lobner, un equilibrio ritmico tra la lenta narrazione e la marginale evoluzione dei 
personaggi. L’uso del dialogo introdotto da “dice”, “diceva”, “disse”, forza 
l’attenzione del lettore sulle sequenze temporali e segna la cadenza della vita. La 
Lobner insiste sull’onesta della scrittrice e sull’importanza che la stessa attribuisce a 
tale qualita all’interno dei rapporti familiari. 

Con poche varianti la Heller ripropone 1’Anna Banti di Artemisia, gia apparso 
nel volume Donna, recensito nel presente numero degli Annali d’italianistica.. 

Due romanzi di Lalla Romano sono presentati con accuratezza e sensibilita 
letteraria da Flavia Brizio. Nella loro diversita, La penombra che abbiamo 
attraversato e Le parole tra noi leggere, hanno una struttura non lineare, derivante 
dalle memorie dell’autrice; ma mentre nel primo i ricordi riemergono legati ai luoghi 
dell’adolescenza, nel secondo la documentazione dei dialoghi del passato é 
confrontata con la presente posizione del figlio, nella speranza, non realizzata alla 
fine del romanzo, di una maggiore comprensione. 

I romanzi della memoria non ricordano il passato, come sottolinea la Brizio, ma 
lo “rivisitano” nell’atemporalita della ricchezza emotiva della coscienza. 

Nelle storie di Angela, Elena e Tosca, Mark Pietralunga individua i temi 
fondamentali dell’opera della Lagorio: il coraggio femminile per la ricerca della verita 
ed il profondo, poetico attaccamento per il mondo delle Langhe e per la tradizione 
letteraria della Liguria. I] saggio, chiaro ed esauriente, traccia la storia personale e le 
ascendenze letterarie della scrittrice. 

La qualita della prosa di Gianna Manzini @ messa in rilievo nel saggio di 
Giovanna Miceli-Jeffries, che la inquadra nella tradizione della “prosa d’arte” (91). 
Scrivere é interpretare la realta, e la chiarezza non risiede nella cronaca. I romanzi 
della Manzini si basano sulla dicotomia di luce e ombra. La costante passione della 
scrittrice per la lingua assume particolare rilievo nelle ultime sue opere. Ritratto in 
piedi e Sulla soglia sono l’evocazione rispettivamente del padre e della madre, il 
primo “depositario di luce” (103), la seconda “lampada di alabastro” (103), oscillante 
tra certezza di amore e incertezza del futuro. “Riassumendo le loro vite, la Manzini 
rappresenta la sua stessa esistenza di figlia e scrittrice . . . sottolineando la sua 


Reviews and Notes 411 


dedizione alla letteratura e alla vita futura” (104). 

Traduttrice e romanziera, Fausta Cialente ha prodotto alcune raccolte di novelle e 
sei romanzi, i primi tre ambientati in Egitto e gli altri in Italia. Paola Malpezzi Price 
scrive di Ballata levantina: “questo romanzo segna una svolta; unisce una profonda 
consapevolezza della storia a un interesse per la partecipazione femminile alle 
strutture sociali” (112). Ma il primo personaggio femminile veramente moderno e 
indipendente appare solo in Un inverno freddissimo: Lalla @ 1’intellettuale che si 
realizza nella scrittura evadendo dal chiuso mondo nel quale vivono le altre donne 
della Cialente. Attivismo politico e sociale sono importanti quanto la scrittura, anzi, 
per la Cialente si pud essere testimoni della propria epoca solo se si partecipa 
attivamente alla sua formazione. 

Per Paola Blelloch Madre e figlia di Francesca Sanvitale @ una nuova forma di 
scrittura, pil’ romanzo che tradizionale autobiografia, rispondente al bisogno 
profondo di introspezione della scrittrice che “riinventa sua madre e il suo passato 
nello sforzo di arrivare alla verita di fondo” (127). Sonia, la protagonista, avendo 
assunto il ruolo del padre, pud amare solo la madre. L’ambivalente rapporto fra madre 
e figlia é sottolineato dall’uso iniziale per entrambe del pronome di prima persona. La 
Sanvitale riinventa la sua storia e da vita anche a personaggi maschili vittime di un 
destino a loro incomprensibile, in una nuova ottica creativa: “ora penso solo alla 
gioia di comunicare” (135). 

La violenza verso la donna é il tema del romanzo di Dacia Maraini Donna in 
guerra, analizzato da Anthony Tamburri, che sottolinea il concetto patriarcale 
dell’amore e 1’influsso sociale sull’attitudine del maschio, teso a mantenere “cid che 
gli @ conveniente” (144) seguendo l’evoluzione della protagonista, Vannina, da 
moglie sottomessa a moglie consapevole dei propri diritti. 

Oriana Fallaci @ per Santo Aricéd un’esponente del nuovo giornalismo, 
considerato da molti critici un vero genere letterario. Rifacendosi a Tom Wolfe, Aricd 
illustra i punti salienti della tecnica della Fallaci in Niente e cosi sia. Prima di iniziare 
il reportage, la giornalista da un quadro dell’aspetto fisico e psicologico 
dell’intervistato, che con il resto del racconto crea un vero e proprio ritratto 
letterario. 

Abilita giornalistica e tecnica letteraria si ritrovano nell’opera della Cederna, 
erede dell’illuminismo lombardo. Per Giovanna Bellesia la Cederna si é@ 
particolarmente distinta per la sua dedizione alla giustizia nei suoi romanzi degli anni 
Settanta (Pinelli, Sparare a vista, Giovanni Leone), offrendo una notevole lezione di 
coraggio. Il suo merito @ per la Bellesia “l’abilita di dare un ritratto della storia 
sociale e culturale dell’Italia, vivido, umoristico e sincero” (196). 

La raccolta si conclude con una panoramica della letteratura femminista degli 
anni Ottanta in Italia. La Lazzaro-Weis, riallacciandosi alle femministe francesi 
Kristeva, Cixous e Irigaray, puntualizza le varie tendenze italiane e il loro contributo 
critico e narrativo. Sottolinea, citando la femminista Frye, l’importanza del romanzo 
nel creare un pubblico nuovo e nel codificare cambiamenti sociali. Conclude 
affermando 1’impossibilita di un giudizio sui risultati sociali fino ad ora ottenuti dalla 
vasta e diversificata produzione femminista. I] suo saggio é la felice chiusura di una 
raccolta che ha il merito di introdurre il lettore all’opera di dodici importanti scrittrici 
italiane. Un’accurata bibliografia sulle stesse e su altre scrittrici che per ragioni di 
spazio non hanno trovato posto in questo volume, fanno del libro uno strumento di 


412 Reviews and Notes 


partenza per nuovi corsi o ricerche sul contributo femminile alla letteratura 
contemporanea italiana, rilevante per la sua ricchezza e consistenza, ma ancora 
misconosciuto. 

Rosalia Colombo Ascari, Sweet Briar College 


Donna: Women in Italian Culture. Ed. Ada Testaferri. Toronto: 
Dovehouse Editions, 1989. Pp. 316. 


I numerosi saggi che compongono il volume, diviso in due parti — la prima e 
predominante esamina opere di scrittrici, la seconda opere di autori 1 cui personaggi 
femminili hanno un certo spazio — sono un’accurata selezione del Simposio 
organizzato nel febbraio del 1987 dall’Universita di York, il primo, ci ricorda la 
Testaferri, a indirizzo multidisciplinare avente per tema la donna negli studi di 
Italianistica. Una sintesi sull’autunno caldo e sulle rilevanti richieste sociali che 
toccavano la vita delle lavoratrici apre la prima parte della raccolta dal titolo 
significativo: “Women as Agents of Change”. Qui Adler Hellman mette in rilievo la 
tensione tra movimenti sociali e partiti politici, soprattutto il PCI, sottolineando la 
differenza tra emancipazione e liberazione ed indicando nella VI Conferenza 
Nazionale delle Donne Comuniste del 1976 il momento di accettazione da parte della 
sinistra del concetto stesso di liberazione. Segue un interessante saggio di Linda 
Hutcheon su Femminismo e Postmodernismo, movimenti che non definisce identici, 
ma comuni nel loro intento di allontanarci dal concetto di una verita unica e 
privilegiata verso quello di pluralita e provvisorieta, ponendo in questione i principi 
stessi di ordine e coerenza. Nelle “Istantanee su Maria Corti” la Mortara Garavelli 
sintetizza gli apporti della Corti alla critica letteraria con le nozioni di 
ipersignificazione, di campo di tensioni e del continuum scrittorio come pure la sua 
capacita di entrare in sintonia con gli autori a cui si accosta “che é radicata nella sua 
condizione di scrittrice” (43). Breve ma incisivo é il saggio su Aracoeli che Rocco 
Capozzi, citando Fortini, definisce “romanzo definitivo” (48) nel quale si ritrovano 
tutti i temi della Morante ed é@ piii che mai evidente il confuso rapporto della memoria 
con l’immaginazione. “Poesia al Femminile” ripropone il tema dell’estetica 
femminista che vuole ricuperare il linguaggio per trasformare la presa di coscienza in 
lotta politica. Se per il Picchione non é possibile “rinvenire le tracce di una diversita 
del femminile nell’ambito del linguaggio letterario”, ]’arbitrarieta del segno verbale 
nella poesia della Niccolai é per lui splendida e salutare nella creazione di “continui 
giochi semantici ed etimologici” (67). Il linguaggio diventa luogo stesso 
dell’impegno. I] cinema appare nella raccolta con il sesto film della Cavani, Portiere 
di notte, a cui segue una incisiva presentazione del romanzo di Fiora Vincenti, Utopia 
per flauto solo di William Anselmi, ed un’analisi sull’assenza della figura maschile 
nell’opera della Ginzburg ad opera di Jen Weinstein. L’uomo esiste ma la sua presenza 
é irrilevante persino fisicamente: vigliacco, suicida 0 oggetto, con l’unica eccezione 
della figura del Rena, protagonista di Tutti i nostri ieri. Dalle pagine di Deborah 
Heller emerge |’intricato rapporto tra la Banti e Artemisia Gentileschi, protagonista 
dell’omonimo romanzo. E un legame basato sulla vulnerabilita femminile che si muta 
in coraggio nella creazione artistica. Per Ada Testaferri la Deledda é scrittrice intima 


Reviews and Notes 413 


pill che seguace dei movimenti del tempo. L’Eros @ esperienza totale ma separante, 
essendo spesso doppiamente negata come infrazione e colpa. La madre 2 il testo 
esemplare che qui viene esaminato secondo archetipi femminili e maschili. Nel lungo 
saggio di Flora Bassanese su Una donna, il romanzo dell’Aleramo @ analizzato con 
molta accuratezza nella sua realizzazione e nei suoi intenti. Per la Bassanese i primi 
capitoli si riallacciano al Bildungsroman maschile e l’eroina segue le tappe 
tradizionali del matrimonio e della maternita, secondo archetipi di letteratura 
chiaramente illustrati nel saggio. La seconda parte presenta la crescita della 
protagonista al di fuori di uno schema femminile. Attraverso la scrittura ]’Aleramo si 
associa alle donne del passato e le definisce non pil secondo ruoli patriarcali ma 
secondo il loro ruolo sociale. I] passato @ narrato con il duplice scopo di 
comprenderlo e terminarlo. L’ambiguita della Marchesa Colombo nel trattare 
l’istituzione del matrimonio nel romanzo Un matrimonio in provincia & messa in luce 
da Lucienne Kroha. La prima parte si conclude con un intervento volto a togliere 
dall’oblio 1’Ester della Manzoni e con due studi su poetesse petrarchiste, Chiara 
Matraini e la sfortunata Isabella di Morra che attribuisce alla Madonna un potere ed un 
prestigio superiori ad ogni analoga rappresentazione petrarchesca. Nella seconda 
parte della raccolta si ritrova la varieta dei generi letterari della prima e personaggi 
femminili essenziali alla genesi dell’opera studiata. Molto personale é@ 
l’interpretazione di Margherita Walter che definisce l’incontro di Matelda con Dante 
nel XXVIII canto del Purgatorio come un momento erotico della Divina commedia, e 
non il solo, visto che Dante sembra, a detta della stessa, essere fin dall’inizio “both 
engaged with and blocked by a kind of lust” (233). Particolare interesse suscita il 
saggio di Maristella De Panizza Lorch che analizza la Mandragola alla luce della teoria 
del piacere di Valla mettendo in rilievo |’indipendenza della protagonista. La raccolta 
si conclude con articoli sulla poetica dell’amore nel Leopardi posteriore agli /dilli, 
sulla Lucia manzoniana e sul nichilismo di Pirandello, completando un quadro 
estremamente vasto. La lettura é sempre interessante anche se a volte l’interesse é pit 
stimolato che appagato per la natura stessa del libro che abbraccia in meno di trecento 
pagine ben ventitré autori della nostra storia letteraria. Ma questo era lo scopo del 
convegno volto a presentare il contributo femminile nella nostra letteratura e il ruolo 
femminile nella cultura delle varie epoche. I] quadro @ estremamente confortante e 
l’esempio é da seguire. 

Rosalia Colombo Ascari, Sweet Briar College 


Rocco Capozzi. Scrittori, critici e industria culturale dagli anni ’60 
ad oggi. Pretesti 5. Lecce: Piero Manni, 1991. Pp. 176. 


Una breve premessa, un denso saggio d’apertura (La critica giornalistica e I industria 
editoriale) e diciannove interviste compongono questo volume che si presenta, 
innanzi tutto, come utilissimo ragguaglio sulle attuali vicende del mercato culturale 
italiano. Rispondono alle domande: G. Almansi, R. Barilli, C. Bernari, S. Briosi, M. 
Corti, U. Eco, F. Fortini, B. Frabotta, A. Giuliani, G. Gramigna, F. Leonetti, R. 
Luperini, L. Malerba, R. Pazzi, L. Pignotti, A. Porta, E. Sanguineti, G. Spagnoletti, 
P. Volponi. Un primo indiscutibile merito del Capozzi sta nell’essere riuscito a 
mettere insieme un “panel” del genere; in questo egli @ stato agevolato dal lavoro 


414 Reviews and Notes 


compiuto insieme a Massimo Ciavolella e Romano Luperini per organizzare un 
doppio convegno internazionale tenuto a Siena tra il 10 e il 12 maggio 1990 (1960- 
1990: la teoria letteraria, le metodologie critiche, il conflitto delle poetiche”) e a 
Toronto tra il 19 e il 20 aprile 1991 (“Gli scrittori, le tendenze letterarie e il conflitto 
delle poetiche in Italia. 1960-1990”). Gli atti della prima parte del convegno sono 
gia stati pubblicati (Teoria e critica letteraria oggi. A cura di R. Luperini. Milano: 
Franco Angeli, 1991); gli atti della seconda parte usciranno da Longo, Ravenna, nel 
corso dell’anno. 

Un altro merito del Capozzi consiste nell’aver impegnato i suoi interlocutor con 
una serie costante di quindici domande (da cui occasionalmente si discosta, ma solo 
per approfondire particolari argomenti emersi nel corso del dialogo), le quali 
vengono quindi a creare 1’ossatura di un corpo unitario di opinioni e giudizi pur nella 
sua varieta. Per quel che riguarda gli argomenti, ricorro all’esordio della Premessa: “Tl 
tuolo e/o la funzione (la ‘missione’, direbbe Sanguineti) dell’intellettuale, del critico, 
e dello scrittore come opinion-maker nella nostra societa; il potere degli editori e del 
marketing nell’industria dei best-sellers; la crisi della narrativa italiana negli ultimi 
trent’anni; gli effetti del ‘caso Eco’; cosa sia rimasto del Gruppo 63 e della 
Neoavanguardia e cosa sia cambiato con la critica semiotica, strutturalista, 
decostruzionista, ecc.; e, dopo tanta enfasi sulla scrittura, se si sia veramente ritornati 
al piacere della lettura: ecco le domande .. .” (7). 

Il volume si presenta come “opera aperta”: sarebbe certo stato agevole a 
Capozzi, con le interviste in mano, tentare una sintesi, costruire una conclusione 
mettendo le diverse posizioni a confronto; ma questo compito é lasciato al lettore (e 
al recensore, per cui non va certo persa l’occasione di un intervento personale). E per 
questa impostazione del volume che, invece di una conclusione, abbiamo nella “Parte 
I” un saggio di trenta pagine con circa novanta note, e cioé una dettagliata descrizione 
del panorama storico culturale attuale con numerosissimi riferimenti a quotidiani e 
riviste settimanali, ma con parchi e misurati giudizi. Anche qui, allora, come nella pit 
cospicua “Parte II” comprendente le interviste, il Capozzi mantiene un atteggiamento 
obiettivo con una scrittura controllata, mirante soprattutto all’informazione, alla 
messa a fuoco dei problemi pit vistosi e discussi degli ultimi anni. 

La pura obiettivita, naturalmente, é un’astrazione e ne @ ben consapevole |’ autore 
che pur nella sua programmatica neutralita non manca talvolta di rivolgere domande 
innescate, atte a stimolare immediate e anche risentite repliche. Tra le righe della 
rassegna iniziale e delle stesse domande rivolte agli intervistati emergono delle 
costanti di interesse del Capozzi su alcune delle quali mi sembra utile commentare; 
esse Si possono restringere agli argomenti seguenti. C’@ innanzi tutto la tendenza 
della critica a dividersi in due gruppi secondo “l’ovvia divisione tra chi sostiene che 
la letteratura (e l’arte in generale) dovrebbe essere sempre referenziale — cioé, 
essendo un fatto sociale, dovrebbe essere legata alla realta — e chi, al contrario, crede 
nella letterarieta della letteratura, e cioé crede nei suoi aspetti metaletterari, 
metalinguistici, intertestuali, autoriflessivi o semplicemente ludici” (15); c’é poi il 
problema dell’incidenza dei mass media sulla collettivita, sulla critica e sulla stessa 
soggettivita degli scrittori; e c’é infine la tanto discussa opportunita di definire la 
presente stagione culturale come "postmoderna”. Va detto subito che questo termine é 
maneggiato con un certo fastidio da quasi tutti gli interlocutori; vi ricorre invece il 
Capozzi, animato dal giusto proposito di additare i vantaggi di una possibile 


Reviews and Notes 415 


operazione di sintesi, collegandolo all’importanza dei mass media: “Bisognerebbe 
studiare a fondo se in effetti i romanzi postmoderni, come Cosmicomiche e Se una 
notte d’inverno un viaggiatore di Calvino, o Il nome della rosae Il pendolo di 
Foucault di Eco non siano in realta delle ottime radiografie di come i mass media 
influiscono su tutto cid che consumiamo, incluse le nostre letture” (25). 

Mi pare che per trarre il massimo profitto da questo meritevolissimo volume, 
proprio all’urgenza della sintesi ci si debba riferire, sia essa significata o meno dal 
pur ambiguo “postmoderno”. Un utile spunto viene da Lamberto Pignotti. Alla prima 
domanda (‘‘Oggi 1’intellettuale forse s’illude di avere una vera e propria autonomia, di 
fatto egli spesso viene, diciamolo pure, usato dai media sotto l’apparenza di essere 
consultato in quanto opinion maker. Quale consapevolezza ne hanno i nostri 
intellettuali? Possiamo dire lo stesso per i critici e per gli scrittori?”), risponde in 
questo modo: “Non mi interessa sapere se scrittori e critici ne hanno la 
consapevolezza: in realta sono i media che influenzano i linguaggi artistici” (146). E 
gia tanto che si riconosca il valore determinante dei media nella letteratura; ma perché 
non estenderlo anche al linguaggio della critica? Nel caso, quale affidabilita resta 
all’opinion maker? Facciamo presto di questo passo ad arrivare al punto in cui non si 
pud pid credere a niente. La questione @ mal posta perché la nozione di media, almeno 
secondo McLuhan che ad essi ha dedicato l’impegno di una vita, € ancora troppo 
confusa. Se i media sono extensions of man (il sottotitolo di Understanding Media, 
1964) sara pur ora di includere nella loro definizione non solo la radio, la televisione 
e i giornali, ma tutto cid che é fatto dall’uomo e che quindi ne “estende” la capacita di 
percepire e di modificare il mondo; sara pur ora di riconoscere come le trasformazioni 
culturali, dalle pit vistose e globali alle pid periferiche, avvengono perché 1 media 
stabiliscono le coordinate del nuovo environment che poi viene a manifestarsi con 
una miriade di effetti diversi. C’é allora una sintesi, chiaramente impossibile, che si 
cerca tentando di legare insieme questi effetti disparati senza far ricorso alle loro cause 
massmediologiche, e c’é poi una sintesi urgente e necessaria (cui pare comunque che 
abbiano rinunciato parecchi tra gli intervistati) che consiste nell’intendere il 
presente organicamente, e con freddezza scientifica, attraverso il riconoscimento 
dell’influsso globalizzante, subliminale ma determinante, dei mass media 
correttamente intesi. 

Con questo in mente non si pud non far riferimento al lucido intervento di 
Renato Barilli che riassume i vantaggi dell’ampia prospettiva di McLuhan su una 
dialettica del momento massimamente incentrata sugli effetti, e non sulle cause, di 
una pur palese globale trasformazione culturale. La ragione per cui quella di Barilli 
rimane una voce isolata in Italia @ data, a mio avviso, proprio dalla teoria di cui il 
critico si @ fatto esegeta e divulgatore. La ritribalizzazione di cui parla McLuhan non é 
soltanto un fatto etnico e politico: in societa tecnologicamente avanzate essa si 
manifesta nei gruppi omogenei pid disparati. Dice Fortini: “Racconta Giudici che in 
treno un interlocutore occasionale, vedendo che stava leggendo versi, concluse che 
egli doveva essere un poeta” (97). Perché non estendere questa percezione 
dell’interlocutore occasionale e riconoscere oltre alla “trib” dei poeti anche quella 
dei critici? Ora, ogni assetto tribale @ fortemente conservativo e questo spiega, in 
fondo, perché delle soluzioni globalizzanti, non solo di un McLuhan ma anche di un 
Frye (sui quali posso parlare con un minimo di competenza) non venga neanche 
avvertita la fortissima carica innovatrice, mentre un critico marxista come Fredric 


416 Reviews and Notes 


Jameson, la cui novita consiste nel dire che non ci sono novita, incontri 
praticamente un pubblico attento e consensiente. E cosi succede che, fatte salve le 
illuminazioni di chi procede per la sua strada (scrittori, in massima parte, che si 
confrontano con la pagina bianca senza fiducia nelle linee ben tracciate di una 
obsoleta ideologia, e parlo qui soprattutto di Roberto Pazzi e di Luigi Malerba), 
abbiamo di nuovo da ascoltare le note di una sempre pil stanca geremiade. In Edoardo 
Sanguineti, per esempio, con antica chiarezza: “Con lo sfruttamento del mercato 
mondiale la borghesia ha dato un’impronta cosmopolitica alla produzione e al 
consumo di tutti i paesi. . . . A questo punto, @ fatale che Jameson scopra che il 
‘moderno’ é@ tutto un ‘prepostmoderno’. Allora, meglio parlare direttamente di 
‘capitalismo’ e della sua fase di pieno sviluppo planetario. E ripartire da questa 
prospettiva” (158). Ma perché partire dal capitalismo e non dall’ambiente culturale, 
determinato dai mass media meccanici che hanno reso possibile il capitalismo come 
ogni altro prodotto della societa “moderna”? C’é tutta una Galassia Gutenberg che 
manifesta questa ricerca delle cause ultime della modernita; di McLuhan ci si pud certo 
fidare se non ci si accampa sulla insostenibile posizione secondo cui il moderno si 
pone come dato innato e non come fatto storico e temporaneo dell’umanita. Se lo 
studio delle societa tribali ci ha insegnato qualcosa, ci ha insegnato che 
l’individualismo che sta a monte di ogni forma di capitalismo @ in esse sconosciuto; e 
servono forse altre prove del vistoso processo di ritribalizzazione in corso oggi in 
ogni parte del mondo? O si vuole forse sostenere che ci siano diverse forme di 
organizzazione tribale? Sarebbe gia un passo avanti. E chiaro comunque che se non si 
esce dalla stretta del materialismo dialettico non si pud neanche cominciare a parlare 
di “post-modernita”, un concetto che va legato direttamente alle esigenze primarie 
dell’uomo, se non in termini dispregiativi e risentiti. 

Molto scoperto, in linea con Sanguineti, risulta anche l’atteggiamento di 
Romano Luperini. Pur riconoscendo che una drastica trasformazione culturale é 
avvenuta in Italia negli ultimi anni (scomparsi tutti i marxisti degli anni '60), egli 
non ne cerca la ragione interna agli elementi stessi del problema (non si pone la 
domanda: che cosa determina un ambiente culturale?), per cui ci presenta i “pentiti” 
(ex marxisti) quasi fossero dei rinnegati, delle persone evidentemente carenti in 
“consapevolezza teorica e vigilanza pratica nei confronti di meccanismi integranti 
che sono infiniti” (127). Una posizione del genere, per dirla con Frye, “rather 
underestimates the intelligence of many people” (Imre Salusinszky, Criticism in 
Society, New York-London: Methuen, 1987, 39) e per questo non é conveniente né 
salutare. 

Per concludere, mi sembra che proprio sui tanto temuti meccanismi integranti, 
che poi non sono affatto infiniti e che anzi si possono ridurre ai media di maggior 
portata e penetrazione, appaia superficiale la ricerca di Luperini e di altri intervistati. 
L’“integrita” va invece ricercata e, come fa Pazzi, nella “provincia”, che vale qui 
come pura e semplice allegoria del nucleo culturale in cui si possono trovare risposte 
esistenziali fuori da ogni schema ideologico intransigente e oppressivo. Non é certo 
questo il luogo dell’idillio (la “trib” @ spesso teatro di lotte feroci), né un ambiente 
separato dal resto del mondo: é il “villaggio globale”, la nuova dimora che i media 
elettrici, ci piaccia 0 no, ci hanno approntato. 


Francesco Guardiani, University of Toronto 


Reviews and Notes 417 


Armando Balduino. La donna dello schermo. Firenze: Vallecchi 
Editore, 1989. 


Chi arriva tardi alla narrativa ne ha avuto sempre la vocazione, ma forse mai il 
coraggio o l’occasione. Ma chi si decide anche se tardi a superare la riluttanza iniziale 
e a trovare l’occasione di rivelare quella vocazione riesce con difficolta a celare un 
residuo di timore che si manifesta quasi sempre in un certo distacco o diffidenza verso 
la storia, verso le trame ben archittettate che trionfano anche sull’autore, verso i 
personaggi forti e verso i toni epici e le sottolineature ideologiche. Prevale, 
insomma, nei narratori di tali leve la tendenza per un tipo di storia che lasci ampie 
fessure perché vi entri la riflessione metaletteraria che serve a prevenire eventuali 
cadute in entusiasmi ingenui, nonché a ridimensionare la letteratura (ahimé troppo 
amata!) collocandola fra i campi di lavoro in cui il demone non é tutto, e che dia vita a 
un tono ironico con tutte le sue sfumature dall’assurdo all’indulgente autoderisione 
che serve anche da captatio benevolentiae. ~ un po’ il caso di Armando Balduino, da 
tempo noto per la sua attivita di critico letterario, e che si é cimentato nella narrativa 
con una serie di racconti, Singoli e coppie (Firenze, Vallecchi, 1987). Ora, con 
quest’ultimo libro tenta il romanzo. 

Il quale fin dal titolo tradisce la formazione accademica dell’autore. Ma non é un 
neo: consapevole della sua potenziale deformazione personale (come si fa a 
sopprimere completamente le molte letture attraverso le quale si @ imparato a leggere 
la vita, le mille scritture di critica letteraria il cui linguaggio particolare pud finire 
con l’informare anche il linguaggio quotidiano?), l’autore sembra compiacersene 
tanto che la volge a proprio vantaggio deformando a sua volta il senso della nozione 
che il titolo immediatamente suggerisce. La donna dello schermo non ha infatti 
niente in comune con quella di Dante, né serve a nascondere un amore per un’altra 
donna; ma é una molto pit misteriosa Carla la cui invenzione si identifica con la sua 
funzione nel romanzo, e che vive d’una vita misteriosa perché tutta vissuta all’interno 
di un computer, protetta o rivelata soltanto dal monitor della macchina che la 
contiene. Lo schermo del computer diventa cosi il centro della finzione e la cifra del 
romanzo. 

Il romanzo @ diviso in tre parti in cui parlano tre narratori apparentemente 
diversi. I] primo @ una donna che entra (enters) nel computer un suo diario, una storia 
d’amore: triste storia da divorziata, malinconica storia fatta di ricordi di attese, di 
depressioni, di ambienti squallidi, storia in cui si alternano due uomini, un Giacomo e 
un Valerio, che poi finiscono col fondersi in un Giacalerio. La seconda parte @ 
costituita da ritagli di giornale che danno degli spezzoni di un evento da romanzo 
giallo, e narrano dell’omicidio di un Giacomo e della figlia Silvia; e le indagini 
puntano nella direzione di una Carla il cui computer contiene dei dati indiziari; ma non 
vien detto come le indagini terminino. La terza voce @ quella del narratore principale 
anzi unico in quanto si rivela autore anche del diario della Carla e dei ritagli del 
giornale nello stesso tempo in cui presenta una sorta di ragguaglio autobiografico che 
spiega il perché abbia inventato tutta quella storia della Carla e del suo proprio 
omicidio. La spiegazione dell’invenzione @ che non sia tutto inventato di sana pianta 
poiché la Carla della prima parte ha dei tratti in comune con la C., moglie del 
Giacomo che narra, e le coincidenze di indirizzi e di personaggi lasciano chiaramente 


418 Reviews and Notes 


intravvedere che fra il mondo reale di Giacomo e quello che lui inventa i legami sono 
tanto fitti quanto possono esserlo quelli fra una situazione reale e una sua 
sublimazione con la quale si aspira a fuggire quella realta: nella fattispecie si tratta di 
un marito che vuol liberarsi della moglie con un divorzio e la moglie che vuol 
liberarsi del marito con un omicidio. I] nesso fra reale e immaginario diventa opaco 
ma non per questo meno vero, come é il legame fra letteratura e vita che la mimesi 
ravvicina ma poi, cercando la vita nella letteratura ci si accorge che laddove questa 
sembra pil vera allora si scopre quanto sia sfuggente. 

Il romanzo trova in questa presenza e trasfigurazione letteraria la sua unita, anzi 
un’unita di tal genere che il romanzo si potrebbe leggere cominciando dalla fine visto 
che il rapporto di causalita che regge la finzione principale non é lineare ma pone 
causa (= bisogno di evasione, di storia liberatrice) ed effetto (= la scrittura materiale di 
quella storia) in una situazione di contiguita o di tensione permanente che lascia 
sempre irrisolta la bipolarita dell’inventato e del vissuto. Detto in parole pit 
semplici: si potrebbe partire dalla situazione di noia di Giacomo, dal suo disagio per 
gli umori della moglie e i capricci della figlia per vedere perché mentalmente o 
letterariamente egli consumi un suicidio, faccia un divorzio e senta allora pieta per la 
moglie che immagina sola, e la finzione e i personaggi del romanzo rimarrebbero pit 
oO meno gli stessi. 

Ma Balduino ha scelto la via che ha scelto per una consumata astuzia da narratore. 
Intanto la dispositio che egli ha voluto crea quella suspense che aggiunge un 
ingrediente da romanzo poliziesco ad un romanzo che non lo é. Anzi l’elemento 
giallo, con la sua storia o trama, crea un divertente contrasto con la mancanza di 
storia nel romanzo, e dice che la storia @ voluta solo come Ersatz. Ma il risultato pit 
vistoso di quell’ordine artificiale (proprio nel senso retorico di ordo artificialis ) degli 
eventi é che esso porta alla svalutazione degli stessi. Nella terza parte, infatti, non 
solo scopriamo chi perpetra l’omicidio, ma scopriamo anche che la storia che 
abbiamo letto con sospensione e che ci ha deluso soltanto perché non ce ne vien detta 
la fine, la storia di cui si cercava il colpevole non ha mai avuto luogo se non 
nell’immaginazione di chi l’inventa senza realizzarla. La dispositio del romanzo da ad 
ogni sua parte un’autonomia di racconto separato e conferisce ad ogni parte della 
storia una credibilita che non avrebbe se il racconto seguisse l’ordo naturalis; tuttavia 
la credibilita cosi ottenuta viene subito smentita da cid che segue nella catena del 
racconto. Questa é la svalutazione della storia — o anche della letteratura se si vuole 
— di cui si parlava all’inizio: svalutazione che in questo caso non implica un 
impegno polemico, ma soltanto un piacere di giocare per far nascere una storia dalle 
ceneri di altre. 

Balduino ha costruito un romanzo che procede a smontarsi. Un romanzo costruito 
a telescopio che rivela storie entro storie e che presenta realta sempre pil modeste ma 
pill reali man mano che ci si avvicina all’occhio del narratore principale, passando, 
come dice lo stesso narratore, “dal s:ncero al reale al vero”. E con il vero l’occhio 
limpido del narratore sa d’avere esplorato campi lontani creati in gran parte dalla 
magia del suo strumento e che svaniscono non appena quello strumento viene 
riposto. Cid non significa che il cannocchiale non verra usato ancora: tanto @ vero 
che il narratore chiudera il suo libro andando a visitare un amico sordo muto al quale, 
come ad un computer, narrera la fine della storia di Carla che noi non abbiamo avuto 
modo di sentire. 

La consapevolezza dell’illusione svaluta la creazione portandola al livello del 
gioco. Il computer @ una macchina che immagazzina storie e nega loro anche la 
materialita del libro. Ma proprio quell’immaterialita consente amplificazioni 
illimitate, sia che si tratti del querulo confessarsi di Carla — la parte pit lunga del 


Reviews and Notes 419 


libro — sia dei ritagli di giornale: tutto @ passibile di farciture (anche delle 
osservazioni dello scrittore sui suoi stessi scritti, quasi si tratti di scrittura 
automatica); e tutto viene appiattito sullo schermo dove anche il tempo ha le sue 
proprie regole, e dove il tutto ha un’esistenza precaria perché tutto pud essere 
cancellato con un pulsante — strumento ben diverso dal rogo tradizionale cui si 
affidavano i libri da distruggere. 

Il gioco richiede tocco leggero e umore. Balduino ha saputo fermarsi entro queste 
regole senza voler trasformare il gioco in impresa seria: sarebbe bastato trarre tutte le 
conclusioni che da quel gioco si possono ricavare e si sarebbe potuti addirittura 
arrivare all’ontologia della letteratura. Ne @ nato un romanzo piacevole dove il 
problema centrale non é il perché si scrive, bensi il come si scrive. Tutti sappiamo o 
crediamo di sapere perché si scrive, ma non tutti sanno come si scrive. Giacomo (il 
portavoce dell’autore?) sa che scrivere rappresenta un’evasione; ma come lui scrive 
indica il tracciato da lui seguito per arrivarci. In effetti il mondo che scopre fuori dal 
suo non si pone come una vera alternativa, ma invece come la prova certa che gli é 
impossibile uscire mai dal suo modo di vivere: ecco perché anche il suo scrivere @ un 
gioco che per quanto acquisti toni grotteschi rimane sempre gioco. Giacomo scrive la 
storia della propria impotenza. 

Il suo gioco é@ versatile: assumendo la voce di donna, sa riviverne la psicologia 
con acume; assumendo la voce del giornalista, sa essere preciso e ricco di dati e di 
domande; parlando in proprio, sa dipingere vivacemente un ambiente piuttosto 
banale gremito di cose in cui sembra reificarsi. Questa varieta arricchisce il romanzo 
di una molteplicita di toni e di registri stilistici, che paradossalmente uccidono i 
personaggi una volta che si scopre che sono frutto d’una sola voce. Tutto il romanzo é 
in effetti una creazione di Giacomo che nel computer ha trovato uno strumento di 
sopravvivenza e di divertimento perché in quella macchina egli pud commettere tutti i 
delitti che gli servono per vincere la routine della sua vita, senza mai lasciare alcuna 
traccia del reato. 

Con questa originale invenzione Balduino ha scritto un libro godibilissimo, 
agile e pieno di trovate bellissime. Purtroppo questa segnalazione non ci permette di 
dilungarci su alcune di queste — per esempio, l’attacco con un “perché” causale 
anaforico che pur nell’invenzione di Giacomo sta a sottolineare l’immutabilita delle 
cose e la rassegnazione di chi le vive; oppure la strategia delle lettere mai spedite che 
duplicano la funzione dello schermo; oppure le amiche di Carla che Giacomo ha 
dovuto inventare per alleviare un po’ il senso di colpa per averla abbandonata; oppure 
tante altre su cui si spera di tornar un giorno. Nel frattempo ci auguriamo che Balduino 
ci dia presto il secondo romanzo che sicuramente tiene nel computer. 

Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 


New Italian Poets. Ed. Dana Gioia and Michael Palma. Brownsville: 
Story Line Press, 1991. 


New Italian Poets non @ una tradizionale antologia di poesia straniera contemporanea, 
ma come la stessa curatrice Dana Gioia ci fa notare nell’introduzione, una selezione di 
liriche ampia e rappresentativa che ha il fine di descrivere ]’esperienza in versi di 
dieci autorevoli poeti italiani contemporanei. Nonostante i testi poetici suggeriscano 
delle tendenze, si é evitata la pericolosa ma consueta identificazione di ogni poeta 
con una corrente poetica, in modo da rivelare in ogni autore l’esperienza appassionata 


420 Reviews and Notes 


e personale di “fare poesia”. Le centodue poesie pubblicate con traduzione inglese a 
fronte sono precedute da un’introduzione che getta luce sulle differenze culturali e 
linguistiche che caratterizzano la poesia italiana e americana, e sono altresi seguite da 
una post-fazione che spiega i criteri di lavoro (con tanto di note biografiche sui dodici 
traduttori). 

Nell’introduzione Dana Gioia mette in chiaro che i dieci poeti scelti non 
costituiscono un panorama completo della poesia italiana di oggi, poiché ad essi si 
potrebbero aggiungere almeno altri dodici poeti maggiori (non contando quelli 
dialettali difficili da tradurre), bensi un gruppo selezionato di poeti importanti non 
ancora approfonditi e non ancora tradotti in lingua inglese. In questo contesto il 
problema per il traduttore (perché non diventi traditore) @ riuscire a trasferire nella 
traduzione a fronte il sottile intellettualismo, spesso ermetico, che distingue il poeta 
italiano dal suo pit “innocente” collega americano. Si scopre cosi un tipo di poesia 
eclettica, emancipata da velleitarie infatuazioni ideologiche, che predilige una 
naturale consapevolezza, forse a volte esoterica (reminescente di un certo idealismo), 
della propria coscienza. La curatrice riscontra in questa peculiarita cid che proietta la 
poesia italiana al di 1a della modernita, individuando nel bisogno di realismo e 
saggezza le radici di un’esperienza storica ed esistenziale tanto millenaria quanto 
difficile. 

Spetta alla poetessa Maria Luisa Spaziani, per semplici ragioni biografiche in 
quanto la pit’ anziana del gruppo (1924), inaugurare con le sue sedici poesie l’opera 
antologica. Una breve introduzione critico-biografica precede i versi, completata da 
una lista di titoli delle sue opere in ordine cronologico (ogni poeta é@ introdotto da tale 
scheda informativa). Tra i lavori pubblicati dalla Spaziani spicca la raccolta del 1986 
La stella del libero arbitrio, in cui si riscontrano unita di tono, di stile (vedi l’uso 
della rima) e di sensibilita che ben si addicono alla tradizione letteraria italiana. Temi 
cari alla poetessa risultano la natura e il tempo, che proiettano 1’originale riflessione 
femminista nella dimensione del mito e dell’inconscio. Nella traduzione 1’inevitabile 
perdita della rima @ compensata da una riorganizzazione sintattica dei versi, tramite il 
cambio o l’aggiunta di un segno d’interpunzione, che rende il testo ritmico, lineare e 
idoneo ad una eventuale lettura pubblica (osservazione valida anche per gli altri 
poeti). 

Seguono le otto poesie della poetessa Rossana Ombres (1931), che rifacendosi alla 
tecnica del flusso della coscienza crea un mondo poetico compatto d’immagini e 
senzazioni. L’autrice, ispirata dalla tradizione biblica e dal folklore talmudico, 
predilige demoni e animali dell’ambiente acquatico, individuando nel sentimento 
dell’angoscia la magica condizione della metamorfosi. ~ 

Il terzo poeta del gruppo @ Rodolfo Di Biasio (1937), del quale compaiono solo 
quattro poesie. In Di Biasio viene meno una visione poetica coerente, nonostante la 
prospettiva essenzialmente classica. Nei testi i temi del viaggio e del dubbio servono 
all’autore a comporre una descrizione deprimente del paesaggio terreno. 

Vengono appresso le quattro poesie lunghe di Fabio Doplicher (1938), figura di 
poeta di particolare rilievo dato il suo ruolo di organizzatore culturale. Egli é, infatti, 
uno dei fondatori del “Centro Internazionale Poesia della Metamorfosi” e autore di 
numerose antologie poetiche. Nella sua poesia Doplicher confronta una wasteland 
post-industriale, provando sia un sentimento di violenta repulsione che una gentile 
brama d’esistenza pil’ pura. Le sue metafore si condensano in gruppi procedendo nel 


Reviews and Notes 421 


poema attraverso salti associativi, stabilendo in tal modo un originale modello 
ritmico. 

Quinto poeta della selezione 2 Umberto Piersanti (1941) presente con tre poesie. 
Egli @ anche autore di “‘poemi-film” e diversi studi su cinema e poesia. La sua opera é 
soprattutto descrittiva, espressione dei propri sensi e della consapevolezza delle 
proprie radici regionali. I toni crepuscolari della sua esplorazione nella memoria e di 
cid che persiste al tempo lo avvicinano all’esperienza poetica degli inizi del secolo di 
Guido Gozzano. 

Le dodici poesie che seguono sono di Luigi Fontanella (1943). Anche queste 
sono caratterizzate da una tensione descrittiva, sconfinante tuttavia nell’alogico, 
attraverso un processo accumulativo che distorce le immagini. Nel desiderio di 
superare il reale, il poeta si confronta con il grande tema dell’assenza, conciliando 
nell’uso degli endecasillabi modernita e tradizione. Ai testi di Fontanella succedono 
le diciannove poesie di Patrizia Cavalli (1947). Questa autrice favorisce la forma 
epigrammatica, sfruttando un tipo di pensieri provocatori che interrogano un mondo 
con il quale non riesce a stabilire un vero contatto, trovando infine in esso tradimento 
e morte. 

Paolo Ruffilli (1949) @ inserito nel gruppo con due testi poetici. La sua recente 
raccolta Piccola colazione (1987) ha ottenuto un enorme successo con la vendita di 
pid di cinquemila copie. Le poesie di Ruffilli sono lunghe e rappresentano il risultato 
di un collage drammatico che si avvicina al flusso di coscienza tipico di Joyce. 
L’autore crea cosi attraverso effetti impressionistici una poesia che crea un’intensa 
atmosfera di colpa, paura e desiderio. 

Nono poeta della selezione @ Milo De Angelis (1951) presente con quindici 
poesie. Poeta difficile ed ermetico, De Angelis sembra raggiungere i limiti dello 
stesso linguaggio, transgredendo cosi le norme culturali. Attraverso l’uso 
dell’analogia e della ripetizione rituale, il poeta stimola un pensiero e un sentimento 
che si fondono in una consapevolezza genuina e profonda. 

Le ultime diciannove poesie della selezione sono di Valerio Magrelli (1957). 
Questo poeta passa dal livello quotidiano a quello spirituale, trattando nella poesia la 
problematicita della propria identita. I versi sono per Magrelli un arazzo del pensiero, 
una sua configurazione, attraverso la quale @ possibile un’alchemica manipolazione di 
se stessi. Lo stile @ conciso ma elegantemente disadorno, e il linguaggio teso a 
catturare ogni minima sfumatura. 

New Italian Poets, grazie alla scelta antologica di centodue poesie italiane con la 
traduzione a fronte, introduce il lettore di poesia anglofona ai diversi tipi di poesia 
contemporanea italiana. Quest’opera antologica rende soprattutto omaggio a una 
tradizione poetica che vanta origini illustri, tuttora fiorenti e proiettate verso nuovi 
orizzonti. 

Massimo Maggiari, Clemson University 


Giuseppe De Marco. Per una carta poetica del Sud. Napoli: Federico 
& Ardia,1989. Pp. 143. 


To a greater extent than for the North, the South of Italy has long been perceived by 


422 Reviews and Notes 


visitors and inhabitants alike as special, a space, as Gianni Rescigno writes, where 
“mari e monti e terre / furono fatti per echi e per odori” (87). The fragrance and 
resonance of southern seas, mountains, and fields have inspired enthusiastic encomia 
by prominent poets from Theocritus to Quasimodo. Today, with regional pride 
increasing apace with the contrasting movement for greater international 
cooperation (the growing strength of the Lombard League as Italy moves toward 
European unity in 1992 is just one example of this worldwide phenomenon), this 
volume of essays on contemporary Italian poetry has chosen as its unifying principle 
the common regional origins of the seven writers it treats. 

Giuseppe De Marco’s carefully printed and handsomely produced book is part of 
the series of “Studi e testi di Letteratura Italiana” directed by Mario Santoro. Its title is 
drawn from a 1953 essay by Salvatore Quasimodo in which the Nobel laureate called 
for the creation of a “carta poetica del Sud,” the mapping of a region where poetry is 
still tied to the eloquence of the past and the poet is a writer whose discourse takes 
place “col mondo raccolto in un paesaggio ristretto (la sua terra)” (JI poeta e il 
politico, Milano, 1960, p.33). It is this ancient South as a state of mind rather than a 
geographic allocation that interests Giuseppe De Marco in the writings of the poets 
he considers in this volume. The seven writers De Marco treats are organized, with 
one exception, by the dates of their birth; they are (in order) Lucio Piccolo, Alba 
Florio, Bartolo Cattafi, Gianni Rescigno, Rodolfo Di Biasio, Dante Maffia, and 
Albino Pierro. Pierro is the only poet considered out of chronological order and the 
only one of the seven whose principal works are in dialect rather than Italian. Of the 
poets considered, Piccolo and Cattafi are Sicilians; Florio and Maffia Calabrese; 
Pierro, Resigno, and Di Biasio from Lucania, Campania, and Lazio, respectively. At 
least two of the writers, Lucio and Cattafi, are sufficiently well-known outside Italy to 
have had their work translated into English (see Piccolo’s The Collected Poems of 
Lucio Piccolo, Princeton, 1972 and Cattafi’s The Dry Air of the Fire: Selected Poems, 
Ann Arbor, 1981) while Alba Florio (the only woman in the group) and Gianni 
Rescigno are lesser known, at least at present, even in Italy. 

The writers studied by De Marco in this volume were bom over an arc of years 
that extends from 1903 for Piccolo to 1946 for Maffia; most of their poetry, 
however, was published after the Second World War. As is clear from their 
generational affiliations, none of these writers can be considered a younger poet. In 
fact, there is perhaps some doubt if they could ever have been considered such since 
this is a group with little sympathy, for example, for the kind of revolutionary 
innovations in both form and political attitude as those proposed in Palermo in 1963 
by the “Gruppo 63.” De Marco's critical stance in this book is similarly 
conservative, his attitude is not a “scientific” one in the manner of, say, Gianfranco 
Contini, but rather a rhetorical or “belles lettres” approach similar to that taken by 
Montale in his essays Sulla poesia (Milano, 1976) or by Quasimodo in the volume of 
his writings already mentioned. In his readings of his southern contemporaries De 
Marco is less interested in tracing the outlines of regional twentieth-century Italian 
literary history than he is in presenting a sympathetic account of fellow artists 
struggling to attain their own poetic voices and in this way respond to what his 
editors describe as a common “ansia di riscatto . . . che sostanzia il loro impegno 
poetico.” Rather than an analysis of the development of poetic language in the South 
or an account of the social implications of the achievements of these Italian poets 


Reviews and Notes 423 


within the turbulent context of twentieth-century Italian history, this is a book about 
the “‘condizione spirituale” (157) of six men and one woman as articulated in their 
poetry. 

In this context De Marco sees the work of Lucio Piccolo as that of an intellectual 
struggling to free himself from the trammels of provincial life while preserving what 
is most authentic in that gallingly restrictive but also crucially self-defining 
experience. Alba Florio too, a poet De Marco has written about in a more extensive 
monograph than the few pages he devotes to her here, is treated in biographical 
fashion, a particularly appropriate strategy in her case since this poet’s work falls 
into two distinct phases: the delicate verses she produced as a very young girl and 
then the different but fascinatingly interconnected later work written by the mature 
woman after twenty-five years of literary silence. 

The best-known writer in this study is probably Bartolo Cattafi, and the essay 
devoted to him is the longest by far in the volume. Like other critics, De Marco too 
stresses Cattafi’s “vigor,” “vitality,” and “exuberance” (35), his love for Sicily and 
the sea and his impatience with limits of whatever sort, singling out for particular 
attention the extraordinarily compressed and moving last lyrics that this poet wrote 
shortly before his death in 1979. For De Marco, Gianni Rescigno is like Cattafi in 
that he too is a poet of space; Rescigno is also the most explicitly religious writer of 
the group. “Credere,” De Marco says of him, “é il primo slancio dell’esistenza per 
questo poeta” (75). In a similar sense, Rodolfo Di Biasio, a somewhat younger writer 
whose work has recently been discussed in such journals as Otto/Novecento and 
Misure critiche, is inspired in his poetry by what for De Marco are primarily ethical 
considerations, intent as this poet is ‘‘a dimostrare all’umanita insonne la strada del 
bene e dell’amore, ad indicarle i principi etici, fuori dei quali non vi @ speranza di 
salvezza: la liberta, il senso del dovere” (105). 

The last two poets considered are Dante Maffia and Albino Pierro. Although De 
Marco admires Maffia and is particularly struck by the powerful dialectic in his poetry 
between such opposing forces as near and far, superficial and profound, dark and 
luminous (122), he has reservations about Pierro’s puzzling and possibly even 
misguided preference for the archaic dialect and primitive folkways of the remote 
Lucanian village of Tursi that is at the center of much of this dialect poet’s work. But 
even this section of De Marco’s study provides additional evidence of this critic’s 
clear-eyed curiosity and intellectual openness to different forms of poetic expression 
and different approaches to the South. 

The product of a poetic as well as a critical imagination — the author of this 
book has published two collections of poetry, one in Italian, the other in dialect, as 
well as several critical essays — Giuseppe De Marco’s readings of these seven poets 
as a way of sketching the contours of a “poetic map of the South” is compelling 
evidence of his seriousness of purpose and his devotion to his native region and its 
enduring poetic traditions. 

Charles Klopp, The Ohio State University 


Bruce Merry. Women in Modern Italian Literature: Four Studies 
Based on the Work of Grazia Deledda, Alba De Céspedes, Natalia 


424 Reviews and Notes 


Ginzburg and Dacia Maraini. Capricornia, 8. Townsville, Australia: 
James Cook University of North Queensland, 1990. Pp. 229. 


Within the context of Italian Studies, Bruce Merry’s four essays, dedicated 
respectively to works by Grazia Deledda, Alba De Céspedes, Natalia Ginzburg and 
Dacia Maraini, make a contribution whose uniqueness derives more from the author’s 
approach than his literary insights, persuasive as they may be. In each essay Merry 
performs textual readings intended to appraise the particular writer’s narrative 
concerns and practices from a feminist critical perspective. Certainly the novels and 
short stories analyzed in this study invite feminist readings. Nevertheless, “male 
feminist” interpretations of literature tend to meet with skepticism among female and 
male readers in various schools of literary criticism. It is therefore unfortunate that 
Merry has not chosen to provide an introduction explaining, for example, the criteria 
underlying his choice of methodology and his own investment in feminist critical 
discourse. Although the Preface, written by Giovanni Cecchetti, can not substitute for 
authorial statement on these issues, it does provide a useful representation of the 
position Merry adopts to interpret women’s writing, while intimating potential 
problems therein. Cecchetti maintains that Merry, like other literary critics, is a 
“self-invited guest” in a household comprised of writers whom ke can observe “at the 
center of an environment that more often than not is oppressive and injurious, and 
can portray it in their words for his readers” (v). Besides using “their words,” Merry is 
able to ‘assimilate the feelings and the mental processes of his writers” (v). This 
depiction subtly alludes to the crucial issues of appropriation, which Merry does not 
discuss, but implicitly raises by employing central principles of feminist literary 
theory to examine the discursive space created by a variety of women writers. 

Without explanation, Merry announces his approach in the first chapter, an 
analysis of novels by Deledda, proposing “to measure her against some of the 
accepted canons of feminist literary theory” (2). His discussion concentrates 
specifically on how Deledda’s representations of women may challenge the laws of 
patriarchy rigidly structuring the embricating private and social spheres, perhaps 
creating strategies for female self-assertion. While devoting attentive consideration 
to the variety of female models, thematic concerns, and structural devices elaborated 
in such works as Elias Portolu, La madre, Il vecchio della montagna, and Annalena 
Bilsini, Merry disputes the conventional charge that Deledda’s characters and themes 
repetitiously adhere to standardized types. Instead, he argues, Deledda frequently 
creates variations of the love triangle, in which the object of desire is unattainable, 
as a frame for deploying diversified female figures to investigate “the space in which 
she, and her female characters, could manoeuvre in the search for survival and self- 
expression” (35). Though well developed, Merry’s thesis that Deledda’s heroines 
upset the dominant cultural images of the female as “dolls” or “dragons” is somewhat 
weakened by his examination of “masked eroticism” and “coping and waiting” as the 
chief tools for female agency. 

Merry’s revisionary study of the novels and short fiction by De Céspedes seeks 
to demonstrate how this writer’s contribution to twentieth century literature has been 
marginalized by a critical undervaluation of the ways she uses the quotidian as the 
source of art and expressive forms. He insists that we read De Céspedes as both an 
artful chronicler of Italian women’s daily lives from the 1930s to the mid 1960s, and 


Reviews and Notes 425 


an exponent of “found feminism.” According to Merry, early works by De Céspedes 
examine relations of power between the sexes, exploring the means of women’s 
personal, social, and political oppression, and thus “formalize the categories of 
feminine disadvantage before feminist literary criticism had come to posit them as 
studies in marginalization” (43). Merry supports his arguments with critiques of prior 
literary commentary and assiduous textual analysis, particularly of Dalla parte di lei. 
This novel then serves as a point of reference for reappraising the themes, structures, 
and feminist issues in Jnvito a pranzo, Il rimorso, and Nel buio della notte, among 
other works. Merry’s discussion of the stylistic strategies devised by De Céspedes 
represents the major strength of this essay. His insights foster a sophisticated 
understanding of how this writer deploys ordinary details of daily living — objects, 
gestures, colors, fragrances, and sounds — to create complex systems of meaning 
which express and interrogate gender difference. 

While the other essays in this volume offer intertextual analyses of diverse 
works by the writers examined, Merry’s discussion of Ginzburg is tightly focused on 
the 1947 novel E stato cosi, which he proposes to recuperate from critical neglect. 
Most at issue are claims that this short novel’s style is monotonous, reductive, and 
so lacking in expressiveness that the narrative highlights little more than the 
shortcomings of neorealism. Merry attributes this disparaging view to confusion 
over the difference between Ginzburg’s “crisp and colourful” stylistic technique and 
the emotional effect the prose has on the reader. In his own reading of E stato cosi, 
Merry clarifies the distinction between technique and effect with a detailed, at times 
tedious, examination of the complex rhetorical strategies Ginzburg devises through, 
for instance, her use of verb tenses, adverbs, atypical words, and punctuation. Equally 
documented are Merry’s observations on Ginzburg’s representations of female and 
male figures in this text which, he contends, is an “allegorical tableau about the 
untenability of traditional marriage” whose unnamed heroine “is also the anonymous 
Everywoman, a symbol of those who are emotionally dispossessed because they are 
culturally disinherited” (183). However, in the process of arguing that the thematics 
and modes of representing male-female relations in this novel are prototypic, and 
thus fundamentally important for understanding Ginzburg’s subsequent works, Merry 
minimizes the differences in thought and expression of the writing she has produced 
in various genres. 

The least elaborated and convincing of the studies, Merry’s chapter on Maraini 
presents hardly more than summaries (averaging three pages) of such works as La 
vacanza, Memorie di una ladra, Storia di Piera, and Isolina. As a consequence, 
perhaps, there are several oversights and problematic statements which are not 
supported. For example, while discussing Donna in guerra, Merry characterizes Vanna 
as a “momentarily trapped” woman, while Suna is “Vanna’s crippled friend” who 
“commits suicide” (210). These comments do little justice to the complexity of these 
characters, the ideas they represent, or their function in the novel as women who 
conduct an increasingly self-conscious struggle to challenge patriarchal institutions, 
and the ideas, attitudes, and myths constituting them. Similarly, in his survey of 
Lettere a Marina, Merry overlooks the complicated issue of differences among 
women, which Maraini explores in her portrayal of female relationships. Rather, he 
focuses on the notion of “the shared and equal existence of all women” (217). 

Merry’s concluding remarks in this essay attempt to establish Sibilla Aleramo as 


426 Reviews and Notes 


the unifying figure of the four studies. Though I agree that Aleramo’s novel Una 
donna is a precursor of later Italian feminist writing — a point which has been amply 
argued by other scholars — the placement and sketchy treatment of this argument 
make the section read like an afterthought. Furthermore, this approach disturbingly 
takes the reader full circle, rather than opening onto new areas of inquiry currently 
being mapped by contemporary Italian women writers. 

Overall, Women in Italian Literature is rich with comparative analyses of literary 
works by Italian women writers and their relations to those by American, British, and 
French female authors. The arguments Merry develops and the substantive 
bibliography testify to his extensive reading of feminist scholarship by such writers 
as Nina Baym, Héléne Cixous, Judith Fetterly, Adrienne Rich, and Elaine Showalter, 
among many others. The author’s different, “male feminist” perspective makes this 
book of interest for what it tells us about women’s writing, as well as gender and the 
interpretation of literary texts. 

Robin Pickering-Iazzi, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee 


Seymour Chatman and Guido Fink, eds. Michelangelo Antonioni, 
dir. L’avventura. New Brunswick: Rutgers UP, 1989. Pp. 229. 


In different ways all the essays on L’avventura (1960) gathered by Seymour Chatman 
and Guido Fink explore the relation between Antonioni’s cinema and the visual arts. 
The contributors agree that the director’s visual intensity is accompanied by a 
downplaying of the word. Chatman argues that Antonioni relies on the characters’ 
behavior, and not on dialogue, to tell a story. Marie-Claire Ropars-Wuilleumier 
echoes Chatman on “the banality of conversation” (4) by arguing that Antonioni’s 
characters “do not say anything important" (192). Hence, for Ropars-Wuillemieur, 
Antonioni’s project is to depict in purely visual terms “gradual internal change that 
words cannot describe” (192). 

While Antonioni raises the language of cinema to a new level of expression, his 
achievement is not so much literary but painterly and, for this reason, the 
contributors offer an intriguing array of art historical comparisons. Chatman and 
Geoffrey Nowell-Smith turn to Giorgio De Chirico’s “metaphysical painting” to 
comment on the relation between body and landscape in Antonioni’s cinema. Both 
critics read the ominous architecture, the vacant surfaces and the deranged 
perspectives which the filmmaker shares with the painter in allegorical terms by 
suggesting that this landscape of the mind is also a documentary view of the modern 
city. Even though modernity is difficult, Antonioni is, according to Roland Barthes, 
a filmmaker ‘“‘open to the Modern.” (209). If the references to De Chirico are useful to 
underline a sense of anxiety about the future, the fact remains that Antonioni’s 
cinema breaks away from a strictly figurative mode and veers toward abstract design. 
More specifically, Barthes argues that Antonioni is interested in interstices rather 
than in climaxes, in empty regions rather than in full zones. For Barthes this interest 
in what happens between spaces or underneath an apparently immobile surface is 
reminiscent of Oriental art “which always chooses to paint the void” (211). 


Reviews and Notes 427 


How do we explain, then, that Antonioni’s visual style can accommodate such 
disparate references ranging from De Chirico to Oriental art? This is the case perhaps 
because blank surfaces are both terrifying and attractive for Antonioni. De Chirico’s 
figurines look vulnerable as they stand next to slim arcades with gaping, dark 
interstices. And yet, these vacant areas are also a path toward unknown regions and a 
way out of De Chirico’s stifling museum-like cities. Barthes adds that Oriental art 
“grasps the representable object in that rare moment in which the whole of its 
identity falls brusquely into a new space” (211). In other words, the reference to 
Oriental art applies to that side of Antonioni’s cinema that looks toward the future, 
while the archaeological atmosphere of De Chirico’s squares accounts for 
Antonioni’s ties to the Italian mode of painting where the scale between figure and 
architecture is the measure of a historical condition. 

As we have just said, in Antonioni’s cinema it is the body, rather than the word, 
that tells the story. Furthermore the characters’ behaviors, for Barthes, produce a 
“smaller” History (209). The final result seems to be a sort of microscopic, 
allegorical practice where each film is “a historical experience on a personal scale” 
(209). Barthes’ remarks, here, encourage us to abandon for a moment the frame of 
reference of the visual arts and turn to the Commedia dell’ arte. 

None of the contributors mentions this form of Italian theater in relation to 
Antonioni’s approach to narrative. This is perhaps due to the fact that, at first sight, 
the vivacious maschere and the vulgar lazzi of the Commedia appear to be quite 
removed from this director, whom Fink describes as a man of “silence and style” (18) 
and Ropars-Wuillemieur likens to Robert Bresson for the earnestness of his themes 
and the barrenness of landscape in L’ avventura. (194). Yet the Commedia dell’ arte is a 
useful term of reference if we wish to fully understand why Antonioni, in Chatman’s 
words, downplays causality in favor of contingency (11), thus developing an art of 
duration. To be sure, for Ropars-Wuillemieur, duration clarifies contingency not only 
in the sense of brief or random, but also in the sense of temps mort, or “making the 
viewer aware of time, which passes and modifies human beings though nothing is 
apparently happening” (192). 

Without a doubt, Antonioni’s approach to narrative radically differs from the 
Commedia dell’ arte, because his emphasis on time which passes while nothing 
happens, is antithetical to the taste for surprise, slapsticks, acrobatics, and colorful 
effects of the maschere. And yet, Antonioni and the Commedia are comparable in that 
his art films and this form of popular theater stress behavior over dialogue, and a 
loosely built narrative over a tight causal chain. 

Furthermore, if Antonioni’s characters translate a historical predicament on a 
personal scale, likewise the maschere of the Commedia are allegorical embodiments 
of well-known vices and virtues linked to a social class, to a city, or to a region. 
Finally, the stage of the Commedia is too humble to make room for grandiose events, 
while it is better suited to the representations of daily life, or, in Barthes’ words, of 
“small” History. In a similar fashion, Antonioni pays attention to fleeting details of 
behavior and avoids the temptation of sweeping emotions. 

It is also true, however, that the stage of the Commedia is full of movement, 
while Antonioni’s actors are characterized by a certain restraint, even though their 
smallest gestures are meant to disclose the anguish of their lives. Where is the 
movement, then, in Antonioni’s visual style, if indeed his ties to the Commedia go 


428 Reviews and Notes 


beyond an inclination for story-telling on a modest, even minimalist scale? In 
attempting to answer this question Ropars-Wuillemieur takes us back to the visual 
arts, more specifically to the use of baroque Sicilian architecture in L’avventura. By 
linking the baroque style to discontinuity, instability, movement, the critic reminds 
us of Antonioni’s preference for open endings and erratic structures, of his stress on 
contingency over causality. Thus, next to the baroque facade of a Sicilian palazzo, De 
Chirico’s dangerously deep arcades transform themselves into positive, blank spaces 
or compelling “deserts” which Pascal Bonitzer, echoing Barthes on Oriental art and 
Antonioni, describes as “amorphous, discontinuous, empty; spaces constituted by 
the undifferentiated fabric of urban mutability” (215). 

With Antonioni, thanks to an intriguing group of essays, we begin to understand 
better than ever how productive the relation between cinema and the visual arts can 
become. De Chirico’s paintings, Oriental art, baroque architecture furnish a 
vocabulary through which we describe a visual style that, by definition, defies the 
verbal component of cinematic narration. On the other hand, Antonioni’s films 
release unsuspected, intertextual possibilities among utterly disparate, artistic 
experiences. To sum up, the essays on L’ avventura and Antonioni edited by Chatman 
and Fink suggest that, if film history can benefit from a dialogue with art history, art 
history itself, if seen anew through the lens of the cinema, resembles a sort of 
fantastic and strangely mixed arabesque made of styles and ideas, spaces and lines. 

Angela Dalle Vacche, Yale University 


Rita Melillo. Indagine su  KA-KANATA. Pluralismo filosofico. S. 
Michele di Serino: Pro Press Editrice, 1990. Pp. 165. 


This book has an imaginative and mysterious front cover with a Canadian flag and 
below the flag the word "KA-KANATA,” followed by the subtitle “Pluralismo 
filosofico.” The arrangement might easily belong on the cover of a book of oriental 
wisdom. For those who are puzzled by the title, the author explains that it means, at 
least according to H. Cardinal’s etymology, “clean land,” in this case, Canada. The 
subject matter of the book is the “state of philosophical studies” in that country, 
which is identified as “philosophical pluralism.” The author, who specializes in 
modern philosophy in the English-speaking world (see her important work Tra 
hegelismo e neoempirismo. Saggio su G. R. G. Mure, Napoli: SEN, 1986, and her 
beautiful translation into Italian of Mure’s Retreat from Truth, Napoli: Loffredo, 
1990), undertook to explore the Canadian philosophical scene, with a view to 
discovering whether there is something which binds the philosophical pluralism 
together and blends the various speculative tendencies into a distinct “Canadian 
philosophy.” 

The book, in fact, begins with this very question: Is there a Canadian 
philosophy? The work is divided into two parts; the first is devoted to social and 
cultural background and traditional philosophical tendencies, and the second consists 
of a collection of interviews with notable Canadian scholars in the field of 
philosophy, chosen from a variety of philosophical positions. To the question of 
whether there is a Canadian philosophy or not, the Canadians themselves offered 


Reviews and Notes 429 


conflicting answers. For some, the very notion of a Canadian philosophy is 
unthinkable, because philosophy transcends nationalism; moreover, in a 
multinational, multicultural, multireligious country, such as Canada, it is difficult to 
find a common ground which unifies the speculative tendencies. A major contributing 
factor to the situation has been the lack of outstanding philosophical personalities 
capable of embodying and harmonizing the diverse trends into a distinctive Canadian 
way of thinking. For the time being, it would be more appropriate to speak of 
Canadian philosophies rather than philosophy. On the other hand, there are those 
who argue that if one can speak of “American philosophy,” by the same token one 
should be able to speak of a “Canadian philosophy.” The author, who is in the 
process of writing another volume on the subject, supports this second viewpoint. 
She is disinclined to believe that in Canada there is simply an eclecticism of 
philosophical positions drawn from all over the world, and she seems to detect, 
instead, “definite traits which enable us to distinguish Canadian philosophy from 
other philosophies” (60). From the outset of her study she notes that, despite the lack 
of a unified cultural basis, “if one looks below the surface, one discovers common 
traits which, notwithstanding notable differences, allow us to perceive a 
[philosophical] ‘school’” (11). And she concludes her work by stressing that 
“Canadian philosophy not only exists, but is also gaining a first-rate position, with 
its excellent research, in the picture of world culture” (70). Since the people 
interviewed seemed to be skeptical on this point, one hopes that in the second 
volume she will provide additional arguments to support her thesis. 

The Canadian intellectual scene is dominated by two main cultures, the French 
and the English, which represent two different traditions and mind-sets. The French 
introduced Aristotelian-Thomistic thought; the English, empiricism. Thomism, 
which served to support theology, became a sort of official philosophy particularly 
in the French part of the country, and survived the vicissitudes of historical change. 
Canada, from the philosophical point of view, basically remained a medieval 
country, perhaps up to the middle of this century. The materialism of the twentieth 
century, however, gradually altered the general attitude. The emphasis laid on material 
rather than spiritual values offered society a more pragmatic view of life. Intellectual 
activity passed thus from the religious to the secular domain, and philosophy turned 
to solving practical problems rather than investigating ultimate principles. After the 
second world war, religious studies gradually decayed, and science and technology 
drew the undivided attention of intellectuals. The tendency to acquire skill in a narrow 
field prevails today, as in all industrialized countries. Thomistic philosophy is a 
thing of the past, and the comprehensive view of the world is lost. Despite some 
common leanings toward practicality, the two main cultures remain worlds apart, in 
both language and intellectual attitude. The philosophy of English Canada is 
dominated by British-American thought (analytic philosophy), and the philosophy 
of French Canada is influenced by French-German thought (hermeneutics, 
phenomenology); but the drive toward unity is just as strong as that toward 
separatism. The most distinct characteristic of Canadian philosophy is its pluralism, 
which the author extols as a positive value, and a “great lesson of humanity which 
[she] strove to bring to light” (back cover). She writes, in fact: “The element which 
captures the attention of the scholar particularly is a wide mental openness, thanks to 
which it is possible to find within the same cultural perimeter positions that 


430 Reviews and Notes 


elsewhere would not find the necessary space to share with one another; elsewhere 
one should make a radical choice; either one or the other position; here, on the 
contrary, it is possible to find together the most ethereal idealist and the most radical 
materialist, the most impious atheist and the most devoted religious man, the most 
convinced subjectivist and the most unbridled environmentalist” (11). And she 
reiterates further: “No break takes place in the Canadian cultural world, because the 
two traditions, the French and the Anglo-Saxon, coexist without jolts side by side in 
a spirit of reciprocal cooperation. We would like to underline that the division does 
not weaken the sympathy and the cooperation existing among Canadian 
philosophers, and that the cultural difference has in no way affected the essential 
unity of their thought. There is a profound spirit of tolerance” (13). 

The peacefulness and the spirit of cooperation existing among these conflicting 
tendencies, which the author regards sympathetically as a lesson in humanity to be 
pointed out, cannot certainly be viewed as a strong point in Canadian thought, and we 
cannot share any enthusiasm for such a philosophical attitude. Pluralism means 
relativism and individualism, implying that there is no truth or falsehood per se, 
while what is asked of philosophy is universal truth, stable principles, not a 
diversity of opinions. Philosophy, like theology, is dominated by exclusivist 
tenets: it does not admit or tolerate differing viewpoints. Tolerance is not a 
philosophical or theological virtue, because it presupposes indifference. 
Furthermore, when diverse philosophical traditions live together in perfect harmony, 
there is no need for debate, and thought becomes stagnant. Cooperative efforts can be 
productive when there is a common purpose to be achieved; but in philosophy any 
cooperation among divergent views would be an absurdity. 

Peaceful coexistence among conflicting philosophical positions amounts to 
skepticism, just as theological pluralism amounts to religious indifference. They are 
concepts which may have a social value (“Why should we kill one another for some 
nonsense we do not even understand?” — Voltaire would have said!), but they do not 
answer humankind’s profound existential needs. They represent pragmatism, which 
measures truths on the basis of their usefulness: whatever serves our ends is true. The 
great problems which have tormented humanity from time immemorial are thus set 
aside as though they did not exist. Empirical tendencies, we learn, prevail all over the 
country: “The fundamental characteristic of Canadian philosophers is above all the 
profound need to remain tied to the surrounding reality” (44). They, in fact, engage in 
the dispute about abortion, the rights of the natives, capital punishment, and the like 
— problems which do not strictly belong to philosophy. One would be tempted to 
say that they reduce all metaphysics and theology to social morality: the field of 
practical action. The enthusiasm with which the author speaks of “unity and 
diversity” and of “nationalism and internationalism” as great values to Canada seems 
to stretch the point. The image of a “philosophical federation” of diverse and even 
opposite components can make sense in political science, but not in philosophy, 
where one strives for unifying principles. There is, needless to say, no national unity 
without cultural unity. 

The author identifies three main currents in Canadian thought: one related to the 
religious problem; another concerned with the study of nature and the relationship 
between science and philosophy; the third one dealing with the problem of ethics. 
From these three major currents there emerges a multitude of specialized areas and 


Reviews and Notes 431 


tendencies which constitute the intricate network of Canadian thought. But there is 
no comprehensive global view, and one wonders how any problems — moral, 
scientific, religious — can be studied in isolation, outside the context of the whole, 
as though the mind were made up of individual compartments. The author states: “We 
can assert that one of the main characteristics of Canadian philosophy, even in its 
metaphysical constructions, is to remain faithful to the hic et nunc, and not to lose 
itself in all-embracing constructicns, which, in an attempt to formulate theories of 
reality, valid for all times and all places, wind up forgetting the only time in which 
we live: the present” (57). We are already in the domain of sociology or political 
science, pragmatically understood. It seems that philosophy is replaced by science 
and technology, and theory is superseded by praxis. 

It is an extremely difficult undertaking to outline an adequate view of a 
philosophy splintered in all directions and which assumes more and more the 
character of particular sciences. Rita Melillo’s is a pioneer book appearing in Europe, 
and can serve as an excellent introduction to Canadian philosophy. In sum, the work 
makes for informative and interesting reading, and it provides a clear picture of the 
major drives of Canadian thought. Our final remark remains whether a philosophy 
entirely turned to the solution of practical problems and unconcerned with the deeper 
anxieties of human existence can be called a philosophy. 

Giovanni Gullace, SUNY-Binghamton 


Peter Carravetta. Prefaces to the Diaphora. Rhetorics, Allegory, and 
the Interpretation of Postmodernity. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 
1990. 


Prefaces to the Diaphora, with its multiple explorations into twentieth-century 
Italian literature, culture, and theory, with its engaging and complex analyses of a 
large spectrum of cultural phenomena that range from Nietzsche’s Zarathustra to the 
wake of the avant-gardes, and from D’Annunzio’s Maia and Vattimo’s theory of the 
“pensiero debole” to an investigation of the Vico/Heidegger connection, and with its 
dazzling mixture of rhetorical style and poetic experiments, leaves little doubt that 
its author is engaged in a most personal theoretical agenda, searching for dynamic 
modes of expression and conceptual configurations commensurate not only with a 
twentieth-century philosophical problematic, the postmodern, but also, and perhaps 
more importantly, commensurate with his very own immense creative drives. Indeed, 
of the innumerable scholars selectively working, in the context of the humanities and 
interdisciplinary cultural studies, in a postmodern mode and on topics of the 
postmodern, Peter Carravetta is by far one of the most striking ones: both in stylistic 
experimentation as well as in theoretical force, this book goes much beyond the 
ordinary postmodern representation. It is an extraordinarily presentable 
representative postmodern book. 

Surely, the volume adopts many of the commonly predictable postmodern 
codifications: principles of ordering and selection, for instance, whereby a critical 
essay on a literary text, by D’Annunzio, let us say, is freely placed next to a critical 
discussion of a theorist, Lyotard, who in turn is freely placed somewhere between 


432 Reviews and Notes 


avant-gardes and the philosophical aporias of the “pensiero debole.” Moreover, the 
volume adopts the ineluctably authoritative idols of the postmodem pantheon, and 
the hierarchical structure into which they are there presently placed, two German 
philosophers, the anarchic, and vigorously hammering philosopher of a life- 
affirming will, Nietzsche on the lower echelon, and the brooding, crafty, ruminating, 
ponderous, and — in the minds of some both embittered and double-handed — 
philosopher of nothingness, Heidegger, on the upper. The volume’s metaphoric 
systematizations are heavily steeped in the postmodern imaginary and symbolic. To 
a considerable degree it shares its philosophical, its conceptual framework, its 
rhetorical tone, its choice of vocabulary, and its predilection for gesturing with 
Germanic syllables, hyphens, and words printed in cursive all in the service, albeit 
consciously or not, of a jesuitically rigorous educational program dear to Heidegger’s 
designs: sensitizing the reader, rendered insensitive by the hegemonic operations of 
western metaphysics, to the materiality of the text. Carravetta’s text is Heideggerian, 
and Heideggerianizing, as it befits a consciously postmodern text. The studies 
assembled in this volume are for the most part genuine and interested attempts to 
raise complex questions, to explore, thematize, and formulate the relation of art to 
philosophy, not a postscriptum but a preface, as the title suggests, to the problem of 
diaphora, of the problem of theory or constrainedness to creativity, and creativity to 
theory. From the very first pages of the book it becomes clear that the explorations 
of the relation of art to philosophy are not composed by an ordinary academic 
functionary of the eighties eager to adjust to the postmodern winds that still blow. 
These are explorations of an artist, of a poet, whose immense creativity, bridled by 
the historical whims of theory, seeks justificatory and explanatory legitimation. Let 
me quote a few lines. “A vision haunts Helios. A foreboding of Death; a perception of 
the limitless horizon of Eternity. A desire to laugh, a desire to cast off the mask. A 
temptation for the illicit, for the unknown; a temptation to sin. A necessity to say, a 
need to unveil his own cosmos. Helios wants to strike a deal with Other’s langue; he 
must have a contract, a deed. And from the Earth issues forth the World. Birth of the 
World” (7) In order to construct a legitimatory and explanatory frame, it might be 
useful to strike a deal with Heidegger, but I wonder whether legitimatory practices are 
necessarily at all. Indeed, the volume can be read as a story in which the author 
concludes an itinerary which began with an exploration of the potential usefulness of 
Nietzsche’s theory of interpretation and Heidegger’s metaphysics for a new theory, a 
journey which eventually ends, as in the final chapter on Vico and Heidegger, with 
Carravetta’s own attempt to create his very own hermeneutics. He quotes Nietzsche at 
the beginning of his journey: “What returns, what finally comes home to me, is my 
own self and what of myself has long been in strange lands and scattered among all 
things and accidents.” The dynamically liberatory pulsations present in each chapter 
are the second reason why I highiy value and recommend this book. It is theory in the 
making, genuine, painstaking, startling and above all sincere: sincere attempts to 
carve out and create — against the many odds which the Nietzschean and above all 
Heideggerian paradigm hegemonically imposes on original thinking — something 
new in the world of critical theory. The heterogeneous, the multiple, the unsettling, 
the decentered, the unsystematic that characterizes postmoderm codifications in the 
realm of art, philosophy, and culture are interrogated as to their usefulness for a 
contemporary theory of hermeneutics. We are not treated, as in other 


Reviews and Notes 433 


Heideggerianizing critics — such as Philippe Lacou-Labarthe, or Jean Luc Nancy, 
who enjoy considerable credit in the U.S. — to the by now monotonously predictable 
repetition of the end of philosophy, and to the temporal, spatial, and aural imageries 
of a pleasure-free, barren, and paralyzing philosophical universe monologically 
rotating on its own leaden axis. Rather, in Carravetta’s study, we are treated not to the 
end but to the beginning of philosophy. With and in the cadences of the dialogic 
which the author sets out to compose, strings melodize a new poem. 

With his desire to accentuate beginnings rather than to rotate on the end of 
philosophy, and above all, to speak of its possibilities, however anchored in the 
realm of the hermeneutic and the dialogic, Carravetta decidedly places himself, 
whether consciously or not, into the “Italian” camp of the postmodern, where 
philosophers such as Gianni Vattimo, Pier Aldo Rovatti and many others have 
collaborated, throughout the late seventies and the eighties, in the construction of an 
original philosophical system generally known under the name of “‘pensiero debole.” 
This philosophical alternative is, in spite of its tendencies towards the 
invididualistic, existential, and ontological, and the ethical and practical dimensions 
such a tendency entails, ultimately community oriented. Celebrating the hermeneutic, 
the dialogic, and rhetorical dimensions in the structures of late twentieth-century life 
worlds, always presupposes the existence of structures which constitute in their 
primary relations not being to nothingness but being to being: a community. As 
Gianni Vattimo and his school, also Carravetta pursues with his volume the 
conditions of possibility not of the monologic but of the dialogic, and as Gianni 
Vattimo, he does it without abandoning the possibility of pursuing, however 
minimal, a re-Dionysosization of the philosophical camp. That both the “pensiero 
debole” and Carravetta’s theory of the diaphora ultimately refuse to exchange that 
which is left of the Nietzschean heritage, the pleasure principle, with the solemn 
Heideggerian promises of nothingness, only enhances their position. It fills it with 
the sociable, with life. So in contradistinction to some of the representatives of the 
hegemonic French postmodern camp, who, by indefatigably speaking of the need to 
renounce philosophy, keep producing philosophical books, Carravetta, more 
commensurate with the facts, and with the Italian philosophical tradition to which he 
belongs, works on elaborating a praxis without renouncing philosophy. Yet there is 
another difference between these two versions of the postmodern, which here I call 
reductively the French and the Italian respectively. Whereas Lacoue-Labarthe, as in 
his Heidegger, Art and Politics. The Fiction of the Political (1990), to use a 
publication that is contemporary with Carravetta’s, proposes that ethicality matters 
little in the constraints of communities as long as the philosophy which produces 
such ethicality states the dangerous precariousness, ontologically and 
epistemologically speaking, embedded in fictional codifications, which include, 
among other things, ethics and communities, Carravetta proposes, in particular in 
his chapter “Towards a Study of Rhetorics and Hermeneutics in Vico and Heidegger,” 
that a theory of the diaphoric, by being ineluctably embedded in a community, is 
always already wedded to an ethical theory. Both camps, the “French” and the 
“Italian,” harbor an ethical imperative. The former places the ethical outside the 
community, and the latter firmly within it. 

Yet it is precisely here, in the realm of the diaphoric and the dialogical in its 
relation to ethics, where Carravetta’s theoretical position could be strengthened in 


434 Reviews and Notes 


the direction of a communicative theory. In the remainder of this review, I will briefly 
outline that direction. For one, what I would suggest is a critical appraisal of the 
Habermasian elements of a universal pragmatic, which would add to Carravetta’s 
project a more pronounced and differentiated social and political dimension. And 
secondly, and more importantly, since he has, when compared with the “French” 
version of postmodernist thought, as a postmodern theorist immensely profited from 
his intense selective affinities with the “‘pensiero debole” in particular, and with the 
Italian hermeneutic tradition in general, it might be worth his while to stay longer 
within the parameters of Italian culture and to explore, in connection with 
Habermasian propositions of communicative action, critical dialogues with the most 
interesting theoretical work these days put forth in Italy. What I am referring to are 
the many publications of the community of women-philosophers of Verona, known 
under the name of Diotima. Against the background or next to these theorists, 
Carravetta might be tempted to slightly shift his research program, redirect his search 
for the diaphoric, and play it in the future in a different key. For what Diotima has 
quietly managed to elaborate over the last ten years or so is a rigorous philosophical 
system which analyzes social symbolics as communicative processes, and the way in 
which women are placed outside it as producers, while simultaneously exploring the 
possibilities of generating new social symbolics in which women are the producers 
from within. In these communicative processes sender and receiver are not identical, 
no matter whether the symbolic systems silences women because they are sexually 
different, or whether women begin to speak their own system because they welcome 
sexual difference. The enormous theoretical vantage point of Diotima is to have 
insisted not on identity in communication, but on difference, and on empowering that 
difference in the context of the social network. The differences among women is the 
key that generates communicative processes and enables the liberatory path towards a 
community. As of late, with its Mettere al mondo il mondo. Oggetto e oggettivita 
alla luce della differenza sessuale, Diotima has embarked on a new terrain where being 
in the social world experiments with ways of producing not a social world, but a world 
to begin with. In this they are harking back to mystical traditions, and to a canon of 
mystical feminists and powerful women-philosophers who have searched for spaces 
where the contingencies of being, of time, are magnificently ephemeralized along the 
stages towards the wholeness of Being. Mystical approaches to the problem of the 
dialogic is perhaps not what a contemporary theory of communicative practices 
might have in mind. Yet theories of communicative practices have often made 
recourse to the realm of art as preeminent for a meaningful social existence, and the 
foundations of art, of poetry, and the aesthetic have historically lived in the vicinity 
of concealed and not so concealed mystical theories. Heidegger, indeed, is a case in 
point. Given that some of the women of Diotima’s newly elaborated canon, such as 
Hannah Arendt, Simone Weil, and Edith Stein, are substantially related to modern 
philosophical problematics as we know them from Heidegger, and given that some of 
the practitioners of the Diotima groups have intensely interacted with the Italian 
hermeneutic and phenomenological tradition of the kind Carravetta has always found 
inspiring — I am referring to Emanuele Severino, Luigi Pareyson, and Enzo Paci — I 
would indeed not be surprised if critical dialogues between the theorist of a diaphorics 
and the theorists of the Diotima group would yield a most productive and exciting 
philosophical fieid with little need for postmodern or modem qualifications. In so far 





Reviews and Notes 435 


as Prefaces to the Diaphora consists of prefaces, exploratory excursions into the 


embattled area of poetry and philosophy, encounters with Diotima might harbor the 
secrets of the diaphoric. 


Renate Holub, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 


Books Received 


Accademie e biblioteche d'Italia. 58 (51 NS).2 (1990). 


Ancona, Vincenzo. Malidittu la lingua. Damned Language. Poetry & 
Miniatures. Ed. Anna L. Chairetakis and Joseph Sciorra. Tr. Gaetano 
Cipolla. Legas, Pueti d’Arba Sicula/Poets of Arba Sicula, 1. Ser. ed. 
Gaetano Cipolla. New York: Legas, 1990. Pp. 212. 


Barilli, Renato. Rhetoric. Tr. Giuliana Menozzi. Theory amd History of 
Literature 63. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1989. Pp. 164. 


Barariski, Zygmunt G. and Robert Lumley, eds. Culture and Conflict in Postwar 
Italy: Essays on Mass and Popular Culture. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 
1990. Pp. 346. 

Bendinelli Predelli, Maria. Alle origini del Bel Gherardino. Biblioteca 
dell’ Archivum Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 236. Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 
360. 

Bongie, Chris. Literature, Colonialism, and _ the Fin de Siécle. Stanford: 
Stanford UP, 1991. Pp. 262. 


Bottoni, Luciano. I] teatro, il pantomimo e la rivoluzione. Saggi di “Lettere 
Italiane” 40. Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 348. 


Camillo, Giulio. L’idea del theatro. Ed. Lina Bolzoni. Palermo: Sellerio, 1991. 


Pp. 210. 

Carugati, Giuliana. Dalla menzogna al silenzio. La scrittura mistica della 
Commedia di Dante. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1991. Pp. 154. 

Cavallini, Giorgio. Studi e note su Foscolo e Leopardi. Biblioteca di cultura 
409. Roma: Bulzoni, 1990. Pp. 213. Lire 26.000. 

Comollo, Adriano. I] dissenso religioso in Dante. Biblioteca dell’ Archivum 
Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 235. Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 154. 


Dozon, Marthe. Mythe et symbole dans la Divine comédie. Biblioteca 
dell’ Archivum Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 233. Firenze: Olschki, 1991. Pp. 
632. 

Eisenblicher, Konrad. Crossing the Boundaries. Christian Piety and the Arts in 
Italian Medieval and the Renaissance Confraternities. Early Drama, Art, and 
Music Monograph Series, 15. Kalamazoo: Medieval Institute Publications, 
Western Michigan University, 1991. Pp. 274 + 41 illustrations. 

Ficino, Marsilio. Lettere. I. Epistolarum familiarum liber I. Ed. Sebastiano 
Gentile. Istituto nazionale di studi sul Rinascimento. Firenze: Olschki, 
1990. Pp. 322. 


Glassman, Nina. Lettere proibite. I Cimenti del principe Vincenzo Gonzaga. 
Pleiadi, 41. Ravenna: Longo, 1991. Pp. 182. 

Illiano, Antonio. Per lI’ esegesi del Corbaccio. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1991, 
Pp. 104. 

Jacoff, Rachel and Jeffrey T. Schnapp, eds. The Poetry of Allusion. Virgil and 
Ovid in Dante’ s Cormmedia. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1991. 


Books Received 437 


Javitch, Daniel. Proclaiming a Classic. The Canonization of Orlando furioso. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1991. Pp. 206. 

Lectura Dantis Newberryana. Ed. Paolo Cherchi and Antonio C. Mastrobuono. 
Vol. 2. Lectures presented at The Newberry Library, Chicago, IIl., 1985-87. 
Evanston: Northwestern UP, 1990. Pp. 186. 

Marti, Mario. Critica letteraria come filologia integrale. Humanitas. Collezione 
di studi e testi di scienze umane a cura di Mario Marti e Gino Rizzo, VIII. 
Galatina: Congedo, 1990. Pp. 144. 

Mastrobuono, Antonio C. Dante’s Journey of Sanctification. Washington, D.C.: 
Regnery Gateway, 1990. Pp. 279. 

Migiel, Marilyn and Juliana Schiesari. Refiguring Woman. Perspectives on 
Gender and the Italian Renaissance. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1991. Pp. 286. 
Moroni, Mario. Essere e fare. L’itinerario poetico di Antonio Porta. Rimini: 

Luisé, 1991. Pp. 134. 

Quétes d'une identité collective chez les italiens de la Renaissance: Alberti, 
Guichardin, Speroni, Sienne au XV@ siécle, le Tasse. Ed. Marina Marietti et 
al. Centre interuniversitaire de recherche sur la Renaissance italienne. Vol. 
18. Paris: Université de la Sorbonne nouvelle, 1990. Pp. 446. 

Re, Lucia. Calvino and the Age of Neorealism: Fables of Estrangement. 
Stanford: Stanford UP, 1990. Pp. 420. 

Rossetti, Roberto. La voce della memoria. La discoteca di stato, 1928-1989. 
Ministero per i beni culturali e ambientali. Quaderni dell’ ufficio centrale e 
per i beni librari e gli istituti culturali, 3. Roma: Fratelli Palombi, 1990. 
Pp: $3. 

Sabbatino, Pasquale. L’ eden della nuova poesia. Saggi sulla Divina commedia. 
Biblioteca dell’Archivum Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 242. Firenze: Olschki, 
1991. Pp. 230. 

Sacchetti, Franco. II libro delle rime. Ed. Franca Brambilla Ageno. Italian 
Medieval and Renaissance Studies, 1. The University of Western Australia. 
Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 534. 

Sorella, Antonio. Magia, lingua e commedia nel Machiavelli. Biblioteca 
dell’ Archivum Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 238. Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 
264. 

Tamburri, Anthony Julian, Paolo A. Giordano, and Fred L. Gardaphé. From the 
Margin: Writings in Italian Americana. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1991. 
Pp. 468.q 

Urgnani, Elena. Sogni e visioni. Massimo Bontempelli fra surrealismo e 

futurismo. L’interprete, 50. Ravenna: Longo, 1991. Pp. 156. 

Vallone, Aldo. Strutture e modulazioni nella Divina commedia. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1990. Pp. 225. 

Vanini, Giulio Cesare. Opere. Ed. G. Papuli and F. P. Raimondi. Biblioteca di 
scrittori salentini diretta da Mario Marti, I, 1. Galatina: Congedo, 1990. Pp. 
626. 


Discourse 


THEORETICAL STUDIES IN MEDIA AND CULTURE 
Edited by Roswitha Mueller and Kathleen Woodward 


Volume 14, Number 1 


Jean-Francois Lyotard “Voices of a Voice” (trans. 
George Van Den Abbeele) ® Meaghan Morris “Ecstasy 
and Economics” ® Kathryn Milun “(En)countering 
Imperialist Nostalgia: The Indian Reburial Issue” 
Christina von Braun “Strategies of Disappearance” 
Gloria-Jean Masciarotte “The Madonna with Child, and 
Another Child, and Still Another Child : 
Sensationalism and the Dysfunction of Emotions” 
Tara McPherson and Gareth Evans “Watch This 
Space: An Interview with Edward Soja” 

BOOK REVIEWS: Susan Willis Consumer Culture and Postmodernism by Mike 
Featherstone ® James Schwoch The Mode of Information: Poststructuralism and 
Social Context by Mark Poster ® Tara McPherson Feminism and Youth Culture: 
From Jackie to Just Seventeen by Angela McRobbie ® Mark Rose Contested 
Culture: The Image, the Voice, and the Law by Jane Gaines @ Elizabeth Francis 
Subversive Intent: Gender, Politics, and the Avant-Garde by Susan Rubin Suleiman 
@ Marilyn Edelstein Sexual Subversions: Three French Feminists by Elizabeth 
Grosz 





Volume 13, Number 2 


Lynne Kirby “Gender and Advertising in American Silent Film: From Early 
Cinema to the Crowd” ® Maureen Turim “Viewing/Reading Born to be Sold: 
Martha Rosler Reads the Strange Case of Baby S/M or Motherhood in the Age of 
Technological Reproduction” ® Roswitha Mueller “Screen Embodiments: Valie 
Export’s Syntagma” @ Robert J. Corber “Reconstructuring Homosexuality: 
Hitchcock and the Homoerotics of Spectatorial Pleasure” ® Virginia Carmichael 
“Death by Text: The Word on Ethel Rosenberg” ® Susan Jeffords “Performative 
Masculinities, or ‘After a Few Times You Won’t Be Afraid of Rape at All’” 

BOOK REVIEWS: Bethany Hicok and Pamela Lougheed Visual and Other 
Pleasures by Laura Mulvey ® Andrew Martin The Remasculinization of America by 
Susan Jeffords ® Linda Mizejewski The Women Who Knew Too Much by Tania 
Modleski ® Robin Pickering-Iazzi Sexual Difference by The Milan Women’s 
Bookstore Collective ® Linda Schulte-Sasse Joyless Streets by Patrice Petro 


Subscription ounaie’ » Neary 
3 issues 

Information Individual $10.00 $25.00 
Institution $20.00 $50.00 

Foreign surface post $10.00 


Available from Indiana University Press, Journals Division, 
601 N. Morton, Bloomington, IN 47404. Credit card orders 
call 812-855-9449 or fax information to 812-855-7931. 


Rocco Capozzi 


Scrittori, critici e industria culturale 
dagli anni '60 ad oggi 


1991, pp. 176, L. 25.000 


Contiene un saggio di Rocco Capozzi, professore di 
Letteratura italiana presso |'Universita di Toronto, sul 
rapporto tra la critica giornalistica e |’industria 
editoriale in Italia; inoltre interviste a Almansi, Barilli, 
Bernari, Briosi, Corti, Eco, Fortini, Frabotta, Giuliani, 
Gramigna, Leonetti, Luperini, Malerba, Pazzi, Pignotti, 
Porta, Sanguineti. Spagnoletti, Volponi, sulle questioni 
all'ordine del giorno nel dibattito letterario italiano di 
questi ultimi decenni. 


To order from: 

PIERO MANNI THE COURIER 

Viale Leopardi 66 Via L. A. Bosis (Peretola) 
73100 - Lecce 50145 - Firenze 

Tel. (0832) 315$29 - Fax 54834 Tel. (055) 300010 - Fax 300036 


DEPARTMENT OF ITALIAN STUDIES 
University of Toronto 

Toronto. Ontario, Canada M5S 1A1. 
(The cost is $25) 


New Vico Studies 


An International yearbook devoted to the study of the thought of 
Giambattista Vico and of its affinities with contemporary thought 


Editors: Giorgio Tagliacozzo and Donald Phillip Verene 


Volume 8 (1990) 


A FIRST TRANSLATION FROM VICO 


Giambattista Vico’s “Reprehension of the Metaphysics of 
René Descartes, Benedict Spinoza, and John Locke”: 
An Addition to the New Science (Translation and Commentary) Donald Phillip Verene 


ARTICLES 
The Study of Vico Worldwide and the Future of Vico Studies Giorgio Tagliacozzo 


Vico and the Spanish Rhetcrical Tradition Emilie Hidalgo-Serna 


SELECTED REVIEWS 
Giovanna Borradori, ed. Recoding Metaphysics: The New Italian Philosophy Nancy S. Struever 


David R. Lachterman. The Ethics of Geometry: A Genealogy of Modernity Carl Page 
Michael Krausz, ed. Relativism: Interpretation and Confrontation Marcel Danesi 


Gino Bedani. Vico Revisited: Orth. doxy, Naturalism and Science in the 
“Scienza nuova” Gustavo Costa 


Ernesto Grassi. Vico and Humanism: Essays on Vico, Heidegger, 
and Rhetoric (Abstract) Donald Phillip Verene 


Francisco Sanches. That Nothing is Known (Quod nihil scitur) José Faur 


Leszek Kolakowski. The Presence of Myth John D. Schaeffer 


BIBLIOGRAPHY SUPPLEMENT (1984 - 1990) 


To facilitate libraries and individuals wishing to build a full 

AT ! collection of NEW VICO STUDIES we offer the complete set of 

S pedep oe our back issues (Volumes 1-7) at a cost of $50.00 to those placing 

pecial Offer standing subscription for NEW VICO STUDIES to begin with 
Volume 8 (1990). 


SUBSCRIPTIONS: 

Volume 8 (1990) Pre-publication price $31.95; after 1 September 1991, $39.95. Please order from 
(U.S. Postage Included. Add $3.00 foreign surface mail or $6.00 air mail) Humanities Press 

Volume 8 (1990) Standing subscription plus back issues (1983-1989), $81.95 International, inc., 


(Before 1 September 1991; postage included) See cae a 


1-800-221-3845 


LIBRARIES: ISSN 0733-9542 ISBN 0-391-03697-1 FAXON 130901 EBSCO 629-023-201 





GRADIVA 


INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL 
OF LITERATURE 


Editor/Direttore: Luigi Fontanella 


EDITORIAL BOARD (Comitato di Direzione) 

J. Alazraki, G. Barberi Squarotti, M. Bonicatti, J. Brody, G. Cambon, D. Della 
Terza, U. Eco, F. Ferrucci, P. Frassica, C. Fuentes, C. Garboli, A. Giuliani, 
J. Kott, A. Luzi, G. Manacorda, O. Paz, L. Rebay, E. Sanguineti, H. Slochower, 
P. Valesio, M. Whitney, A. Zanzotto 


EDITORIAL ASSOCIATES (Comitato di Redazione) 

H. Allentuch, J. Baumel, G.P. Biasin, C. Blum, F. Cavallo, V. De Caprio, S. 
Gavronsky, M. Grimaud, O. Haac, M.L. Lentengre, M. Lunetta, D. Marcheschi, 
S. Martelli, F. Piemontese, G. Pizzamiglio, L. Reina, A. Rizzuto, A. Serrao, 
S. Squier 


Managing Editor: Sylvia Morandina 


GRADIVA is an international journal of literature that focuses on literary criticism 
and theory. In addition to contributions (essays, notes and reviews), GRADIVA also 
publishes in each issue a section dedicated to creative texts. 


All contributions are published in English or Italian. Literary works written in another 
language must be accompanied by an English translation. 


All materials, including books sent in for review, must be sent to the Director of the 
journal and are non-returnable. All matter printed by GRADIVA is copyrighted and 
written permission must be given by the Director for publication elsewhere. Address 
all inquiries, materials and subscriptions to: 


USA: DEAL Y:: 
GRADIVA Editorial Office: 
Department of French and Italian VIA Monte Meta 12-00139 Roma 


State University of New York Administration and Book Review: 


at Stony Brook VIA XXV Luglio 4-00040 
Stony Brook, NY 11794-3359 USA Monte Porzio C. (Roma), Italy 


Telephone: (516) 632-7440, 632-7433. 


Subscriptions: GRADIVA is a non-profit journal. Annual subscription is $15 for in- 
dividuals; all institutional (USA) and all overseas and foreign subscribers (both private 
and institutional) $25. The journal owes its existence solely to subscriptions and dona- 
tions. All contributions, donations and subscriptions are tax-deductible. 


Cover design by Diane Evanac © GRADIVA, INC. 1987 
Copy Production by Mary Masciopinto 


OVILUNI 
RIVISTA DELLA POESIA ITALIANA 


1991 


La rivista pubblica poesie originali e riedizioni di testi, 

saggi di teoria e critica poetica, recensioni. 
La rivista uscira nell'autunno di ogni anno. 

Per informazioni scrivere a 

Emilio Speciale 
The University of Chicago 
Dept. of Romance Languages and Literatures 
1050 East 59th Street 
Chicago, IL. 60637 





DI 





review of italian thought 


No. 5 (Spring 1991) 
—A GENERAL ISSUE— 


F. Crespi: Cultural Changes and the Crisis of Politics in Post-Modern Society 
M. Perniola: Enigmas of Italian Temperament 


R. Genovese: A Systems Approach to Intersubjectivity 
F. Garritano: Toward a Critique of Girard’s Model of Analysis 


Collins & Milazzo: Everything Changed More than Once 
Pagliasso, Bellasi, Ghiazza, Antinucci: Recent Works 
Paul Vangelisti: from The Book of Life 


S. Benvenuto: Psychoanalysis and Hermeneutics 
R. Luperini: On Symbol and Allegory in Benjamin 
D. Tabbat: The Seductive Eye: On Longhi 

S. Scarantino: Special Bodies 


—REVIEW ARTICLES— 


R. Holub: The Politics of “Diotima” 
R. West: “Pudore”: The Theory and Practice of Modesty 


Mario Perniola: Primordial Graffiti 
A. Biancofiore: Recent Works 
P. Verdicchio: The Enigma of ah End 


—BOOK REVIEWS— 


A. Carrera on Minima Temporalia by Marramao; G. Patella on Vico's /nstitutiones 
Oratoriae; J. Reich on Fascism in Film by Landy; N. Harrowitz on The ftalians 
and the Holocaust by Zuccotti; M. Gallucci on Guglielma e Maifreda by Muraro. 


FORTHCOMING TOPICS: No. 6: The Presence of German Thought; No. 7: 
The Heritage of the Left; No. 8: Italian Philosophy Today and Yesterday. Each 
issue will also feature writings in other areas, art and art criticism inserts, poetry, 
book reviews. 


LEONARDO SEBASTIO 


STRUTTURE NARRATIVE 
E DINAMICHE CULTURALI 
IN DANTE E NEL 
«FIORE» 


Le due parti in cui s'articola il volume 
hanno I'unico scopo 
di individuare i modi con cui gli elementi 
dell'intenzione, della cultura, della tradizione letteraria, 
della storia, 
alle quali lo scrittore fa nferimento, 
si connettono e si articolano 
nella fabula della Divina Commedia 
e nel Fiore. 
In un sottinteso confronto 
vengono separatamente analizzate le dinamiche 
del pensiero dantesco 
in Purgatorio VI e in Paradiso II, 
e quelle dell'autore 
del Fiore 
in un parallelo gruppo di sonetti. 


Biblioteca dell'«Archivum Romanicum», serie I, vol. 229 
1990, cm. 18x25,5, 320 pp. Lire 54.000 
[ISBN 88 222 3726 9] 


Casa EDITRICE Leo S. OLSCHKI 
# Casella postale 66 * 50100 Firenze fin = 055 / 6530684 « Telefax 6530214 





Enzo Esposiro 


BIBLIOGRAFIA ANALITICA 
DEGLI SCRITTISU 
DANTE 


(1950 -1970) 





L'opera si pone a continuazione di precedenti repertori compilati da 
Niccold Domenico Evola, Héléne Wieruszowski, Aldo Vallone. Con le 
sue circa 9200 voci distribuite in 14 sezioni (Testi di consultazione; 
Raccolte e antologie; Scritti complessivi; Scritti biografici; Ambiente e 
tradizione culturale; Cultura, pensiero, spiritualita di Dante; Arte in 
Dante; «Divina Commedia»; Opere minori; Studi sui manoscritti e sulle 
edizioni a stampa; Studi su commenti e commentatori; Studi su illustra- 
zioni e illustratori; Studi su traduzioni e traduttori; Fortuna e storia della 
critica) offre un quadro ben ricco del culto di Dante nel mondo. 

A scorrere la fitta trama bibliografica, guarnita per lo pit di 
convenienti essenziali «abstracts», si colgono i tratti sicuri di un disegno 
critico, in cui con netta evidenza s'intrecciano umori e giudizi, ricuperi e 
proiezioni, consolidamenti e conquiste (ma possono anche cogliersi certi 
criteri segnaletici e descrittivi ormai correttamente affidabili nell'eserci- 
zio della pratica di ricerca). 

A completamento (e a parte) si trovano gli indici dei periodici 
consultati, degli autori e degli argomenti, indici che portano a calcolare 
peso e spessore del lavoro bibliografico, l'intelaiatura di echi, agganci e 
riferimenti tutta propria del dispositivo specifico d'una registrazione 
esclusiva. 


Dantologia, vol. I 
1990, cm. 17x24, 4 tomi di compl. XX VIII-1474 pp. 
Lire 320.000 [ISBN 88 222 3724 2] 


} Casa EDITRICE Leo S. OLSCHKI 
#» Casella postale 66 + 50100 Firenze ty @ 055 / 6530684 + Telefax 6530214 


NW, 








THE 
JOURNEY 
OF OUR 
LIFE 


WRITTEN AND NARRATED BY 


ROBERT HOLLANDER 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
A VIDEO FOR CLASSROOM USE $7995 


RYAN MCCARTHY PRODUCTIONS 609/924-1199 
928 Alexander Street Princeton, New Jersey 08540 





AdI 


Annali d’Italianistica 


volume 1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 
volume 2 (1984), Guicciardini 
volume 3 (1985), Manzoni 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
volume 6 (1988), Film and Literature 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices 


~|volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 


volume 9 (1991), Italy 1991: 
The Modern and the Postmodern 


volume 10 (1992), Images of Columbus and the New 
-_ World in Italian Literature 


Subscription rates. Domestic: Regular $12; institutions $19; back issues: add 
$3 for postage. Foreign subscribers: $21. Checks in U. S. currency should be 
made payable to Annali d’Italianistica. Address all correspondence to: The 
Editor, Annali d’ Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-3170. Shipping date: First week of December. 





ISSN 0741-7527 


