ANNALI 
D’ ITALIANISTICA | 


# Wit: Italian Epic 
& : 
Its International Context 
-— Edited 
. by 


Dino S. Cervigni 


Volume 12,1994 


AdI 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 


EDITOR 
Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


ASSOCIATE EDITORS 

Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 

Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Edoardo A. Lébano, /ndiana University 

Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 


ADVISORY BOARD 

Luigi Ballerini, University of California, Los Angeles 
Andrea Battistini, Universita degli Studi di Bologna 
Emesto G. Caserta, Duke University 

Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Franco Fido, Harvard University 

Cecil Grayson, Magdalen College, Oxford 

Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 

Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 

Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 

Paolo Valesio, Yale University 

Aldo Vallone, Universita degli Studi di Napoli 

Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 


© 1994 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Editorial Policy 


Annali d’Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its 
cultural context, to foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of 
interest to a large number of Italianists. Monographic in nature, the journal 
is receptive to a variety of topics, critical approaches, and theoretical 
perspectives. Each year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and 
contributions are welcome. The journal is issued in the fall of each year. 
Manuscripts should be submitted with a Mcintosh or IBM compatible disk 
and should be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. Authors 
should follow the MLA style for articles in English; articles in Italian 
should conform to the Ad/ style sheet. For all communications concerning 
contributions, address the Editor, Annali d’Italianistica, The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 


Notes 


This section occasionally publishes essays and review articles on topics 
treated in one of the previous volumes of Annali d'Italianistica. 


Italian Bookshelf 


Italian Bookshelf is edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Massimo Maggiari with 
the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Valeria Finucci, Albert 
N. Mancini, and John P. Welle. The purpose of Jtalian Bookshelf is to 
identify, review, and bring to the attention of Italianists recent studies on 
Italian literature and culture. /talian Bookshelf will cover the entire history 
of Italian literature. AdJ will review books exclusively on the basis of their 
scholarly worth. To this purpose, junior and senior colleagues will be 
invited to collaborate without any consideration to academic affiliation and 
with an open attitude toward critical approaches. Contributions to this 
section are solicited. Scholars who intend to contribute are encouraged to 
contact the editors or one of the section’s permanent collaborators. Book 
reviews, to be submitted with a Mcintosh disk, should be sent to: Massimo 
Maggiari, Languages Department, 66 George Street, College of Charleston, 
Charleston, SC 29424-0001. 


Subscriptions 
Rates for U.S.A. and Canada as of January 1994: Individuals $15; 
Institutions $29; Agencies $27. Rates for countries outside North America: 
Individuals $18; Institutions $33; Agencies $30. Publication and shipping 
date: December of every year. Back issues: add $3. Checks, in U.S. currency, 
should be made payable to Annali da’ Italianistica. 


AdI 1996 
Travel and Literature 

The 1996 issue of Annali d‘talianistica will be devoted to the study of travel 
literature. This “hodoeporic literature” (/’ odeporica, in Italian) is a classification 
that represents a neglected, yet important body of texts that arose with the very 
act of writing at the dawn of history. “He left for a long trip” — we read about 
the hero of the Epic of Gilgamesh — exhausted, prostrated by fatigue, when he 
returned, he rested and engraved his story on a stone.” It is a corpus in constant 
evolution through the centuries, a series of documents that encompass crude 
examples and works of extraordinary depth. Yet, in spite of its long history, this 
body of writings seems to defy any attempt of definition according to the 
traditional literary genres. Documentary texts, biographies and autobiographies, 
epistolaries and hard-to-define first-person narratives, literature of fiction and 
hoaxes, imaginary itineraries into the fantastic, the utopia, and the self, works of 
disappointment versus idealization, search for the exotic versus verification of 
well-known data: even a cursory examination of this farraginous material raises 
questions that require complex answers. 

Recently, there has been a worldwide stimulus of interest on this topic. In 
1980 a center for interdisciplinary studies on the “Viaggio in Italia” was founded 
in Moncalieri, Turin (CIRVI). CIRVI has been publishing a biannual journal 
and issued more that fifty book-length studies on previously unpublished 
hodoeporic texts, travelers of various nations and diverse interests, as well as 
proceedings of international conferences and symposia. Throughout the Eighties, 
on both sides of the Atlantic, additional publishers have offered the reader a 
wealth of works in this area: newly discovered récits de voyage, bibliographies, 
studies of analytical micro-history and theoretical essays on narratology and 
specific literary codes, critical works on the relationship between travel literature 
and literature tout court, economics, esthetic sensitivity, and feminism. 

In planning this issue of Annali d'Ttalianistica, the Editors seek to explore 
some of the hodoeporic literature's most important themes. We are not so much 
interested in the anecdotal as much as in broad essays of formal analysis, 
diachronic studies of the genre along more traditional periodizations, the Grand 
Tour and the history of ideas. The only limit set to the exploration of this 
complex cultural phenomenon is that the essays study a relationship with Italy, 
her people, language, institutions. Our approach to the hodoeporics, intrinsically 
interdisciplinary, is very promising. We trust that our readers will enjoy it. 

For this special issue, the Editors are inviting contributions from 
distinguished international scholars, as well as their younger colleagues, on this 
wide range of topics. Prospective contributors may contact either editor. 

Luigi Monga, Box 1660 Station BCB 3170, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, 
TN 37235. FAX: 615-343-6909. E-mail: monga@ctrvax.vanderbilt.edu 
Dino S. Cervigni, UNC-CH, #3170, CH, NC 27599-3170. E-mail: 
Dino_Cervigni@unc.edu 


75 


87 


115 


143 


159 


181 


203 


233 


267 


297, 


Annali d’italianistica 





Volume 12, 1994 


The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 
An Introduction 


David Anderson. The Italian Background to Chaucer's Epic Similes 


Juliann Vitullo. Contained Conflict: Wild Men and Warrior 
Women in the Early Italian Epic 


Elizabeth J. Bellamy. Alcina’s Revenge: Reassessing Irony and 
Allegory in the Orlando furioso 


David Quint. The Death of Brandimarte and the Ending of the 
Orlando furioso 


Ronald L. Martinez. De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: The Money of 
Tyranny in Niccol6é da Correggio’s Fabula de Cefalo 
and in Orlando furioso 42-43 

Patrick J. Cook. The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 


Lawrence F. Rhu. Ariosto Moralisé: Political Decorum in Spenser's 
Imitations of Orlando furioso 


Albert Russell Ascoli. Liberating the Tomb: 
Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 


Walter Stephens. Tasso and the Witches 


Valeria Finucci. La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: 
Moderata Fonte e Tredici canti di Floridoro 


Edoardo Lébano. Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 


Mauda Bregoli-Russo. Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 
1983-1994 


Robert J. Rodini. Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 
1986-1993 


319 ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 

Edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Massimo Maggiari with 

the Collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Albert N. Mancini, 

Gustavo Costa, Valeria Finucci, and John P. Welle. 
Alfredo Stussi. Lingua, dialetto e letteratura. Torino: Einaudi, 1993 (Robert 
C. Melzi 319). The Italian Collections Across the Centuries: 
Literature, Art, and Theatre. An Exhibition in Honor of the XIII Annual 
Meeting of the American Association for Italian Studies at the University of 
Texas at Austin. Selected and Described by Maria Xenia Zevelechi Wells with 
the Assistance of Katharine Harlow Tighe. The Library Chronicle of the 
University of Texas at Austin, vol. 23, 2/3 (Robert C. Melzi 321). Tronzo, 
William, ed. /ntellectual Life at the Court of Frederick II Hohenstaufen. 
Washington: National Gallery of Art; Hanover, Distributed by the University 
Press of New England, 1994 (V. Louise Katainen 323). Amilcare A. 
Iannucci, ed. Dante e la “bella scola” della poesia: autorita e sfida poetica. 
Ravenna: Longo Editore, 1993 (Thomas E. Mussio 325). Teodolinda 
Barolini. The Undivine Comedy: Detheologizing Dante. Princeton: Princeton 
UP, 1992 (Regina Psaki 327). Angelo Mazzocco. Linguistic Theories in 
Dante and the Humanists: Studies of Language and Intellectual History in Late 
Medieval and Early Renaissance Italy. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1993 (David Marsh 
329). Francesco di Matteo Castellani. Ricordanze: I: Ricordanze A (1436- 
1459). Ed. Giovanni Cappelli. Istituto Nazionale di Studi sul Rinascimento. 
Studi e Testi, n. XXVIII. Firenze: Olschki, 1992 (Luigi Monga 332). Louise 
George Clubb and Robert Black. Romance and Aretine Humanism in 
Sienese Comedy, 1516: Pollastra’s Parthenio at the Studio di Siena. Firenze: La 
Nuova Italia, 1993 (Anne Tordi 334). Valeria Finucci. The Lady Vanishes: 
Subjectivity and Representation in Castiglione and Ariosto. Stanford: Stanford 
UP, 1992 (Juliana Schiesari 336). Danilo Zardin. Donna e religiosa di rara 
eccellenza. Prospera Corona Bascapé, i libri e la cultura nei monasteri milanesi 
del Cinque e Seicento. Firenze: Leo S. Olschki. Biblioteca della Rivista di Storia 
e Letteratura Religiosa, Studi III. 1992 (Elissa B. Weaver 338). Tomaso 
Garzoni. Opere. Ed. Paolo Cherchi. Ravenna: Longo, 1993 (Nancy L. Canepa 
341). Stelio Cro. Such Stuff as Dreams are Made On: Pirandello and the 
Baroque. Hamilton: The Symposium Press, 1993 (José Escobar 344). Mark 
Lilla. G. B. Vico: The Making of an Anti-Modern. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
1993 (Gustavo Costa 345).Vico in Italia e in Germania. Letture e 
prospettive. Atti del Convegno Internazionale Napoli, 1-3 marzo 1990. Ed. G. 
Cacciatore e G. Cantillo. Napoli, Bibliopolis, 1993 (Massimo Lollini 347). 
Antonio Illiano. Morfologia della narrazione manzoniana dal “Fermo e 
Lucia” ai “Promessi Sposi.” Firenze: Edizioni Cadmo, 1993 (Augusto Pallotta 
349). Gaetano Cipolla. The Poetry of Nino Martoglio. New York: Legas, 
1993 (Annalisa Sacca 351). Antonino Musumeci. La musa e mammona, 
L’uso borghese della parola nell’ Ottocento italiano. 11 portico, 98. Ravenna: 
Longo Editore, 1992 (Olga Ragusa 353). Frank I. Calderone. // ciclo dei 


“yinti” da Verga a De Roberto. Ravenna: Longo, 1992 (Augusto Mastri 355). 
Antonio Lucio Giannone. Futurismo e dintorni. Lecce: Congedo Editore, 
1993 (Cinzia Sartini Blum 358). Anna Meda. Bianche statue contro il nero 
abisso. Il teatro dei miti in D’Annunzio e Pirandello. Pref. Cesare Segre. 
Ravenna: Longo, 1993 (Mary Ann Frese Witt 360). Andrew Hewitt. Fascist 
Modernism. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1993 (Alexander De Grand 362). 
Unspeakable Women. Selected Short Stories Written by Italian Women 
During Fascism. Trans., introd., afterword Robin Pickering-Iazzi. New York: 
The Feminist Press at the City U of New York, 1993 (Tiziana Arcangeli 364). 
Renate Holub. Antonio Gramsci: Beyond Marxism and Postmodernism. New 
York: Routledge, 1992 (Ellen Nerenberg 367). Ugo Betti. J] filo verde. 
Poesie. Ed. Luigi Fontanella. Camerino: Mierma, 1993 (Massimo Maggiari 
369). Scrittori, tendenze letterarie e conflitto delle poetiche in 
Italia (1960-1990). Ed. Rocco Capozzi and Massimo Ciavolella. Ravenna: 
Longo, 1993 (Alessandro Carrera 370). Gian-Paolo Biasin. The Flavors of 
Modernity: Food and the Novel. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993 (Keala Jewell 
372). Lo scrittore Carlo Emilio Gadda moralista lombardo: 
dall’ambiente familiare d’origine alla fortuna della sua opera in 
Europa. Oggiono: Edizioni del C.E.I.S.L.0., 1994 (Vincenzo Binetti 375). 
Carol Lazzaro-Weis. From Margins to Mainstream: Feminism and 
Fictional Modes in Italian Women’s Writing, 1968-1990. Philadelphia: U of 
Pennsylvania P, 1993 JoAnn Cannon 376). Italiana IV. Literature and 
Society. Ed. Albert N. Mancini, Paolo Giordano, and Enrico Pozzi. West 
Lafayette, IN: Bordighera Inc., 1992 (Andrea Ciccarelli 378). Millicent 
Marcus. Filmmaking by the Book: Italian Cinema and Literary Adaptation. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1993 (John P. Welle 381). Dana Gioia. Can 
Poetry Matter? Essays on Poetry and American Culture. Saint Paul: Greywolf 
Press, 1992 (David Robertson 383). Franco Ferrucci. Nuovo discorso sugli 
italiani. Con il Discorso sopra lo stato presente dei costumi degl'italiani di 
Giacomo Leopardi. Milano: Mondadori, 1993 (Thomas E. Peterson 386). 
Paolo Rossi. Paragone degli ingegni moderni e postmoderni. Bologna: Il 
Mulino, 1989 (Massimo Lollini 389). 

Brief Notices 

Edited by Massimo Maggiari, College of Charleston (392). 

Etica cristiana e scrittori del Novecento. Ed. F. M. Iannace. Stony 
Brook: Forum Italicum, 1993. 

Studi d’italianistica nell’Africa australe 6.2 (1993). 

Franco-Italica 2 (1992). 

Cuadernos de filologia italiana 1 (1994). 

Symposium. A Quarterly Journal in Modern Foreign Literatures 
47:2 (1993). 

Acknowledgements and Advertisements 

Copyright 1994. Annali d’italianistica. The Italian Epic and Its 
International Context. Edited by Dino S. Cervigni. 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2010 with funding from 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


http://www. archive.org/details/annaliditalianis121994univ 


The Italian Epic & Its European Context: 
An Introduction 





Annali d’italianistica’s first volume, which appeared in 1983, was devoted to 
Boiardo (1441-94) and Pulci (1432-84) in commemoration of the fifth centenary 
of the publication of the Orlando innamorato (first lost edition, 1483-84) and the 
Morgante (1483). In its twelfth year of publishing Annali @’italianistica returns 
to a broader perspective on the same topic: the Italian epic and its European 
context. Accordingly, in welcoming contributions from scholars with different 
approaches, I have been particularly interested in studies exploring the Italian 
epic from a perspective that is not only historical and open to contemporary 
theory but also attentive to the Italian epic’s multiple interactions with its 
European developments. 

Announcing this issue in 1992, I proposed that Ad/ 1994 should take stock 
of the many and diverse studies that have appeared on the epic during the last 
decade. Through the three bibliographical essays on Pulci, Boiardo, and Ariosto 
as well as the ten interpretive essays, which range from Boccaccio and Chaucer 
to Tasso and Moderata Fonte, this volume’s contributors focus on some of the 
epic’s most debated issues: from intertertextuality and hermeneutics to socio- 
historical issues and gender theory. 

Edoardo Lebano’s bibliographical review of a decade of studies on Pulci is 
not only exhaustive in its treatment but also indicative of current critical 
interests and trends. In addition to the Morgante’s two reprints (Fatini; De 
Robertis) and two new editions (Puccini; Dego), Lebano’s essay documents the 
much awaited publication of Pulci’s Opere minori by Paolo Orvieto. Lebano 
also reviews the four book-length studies published during the past decade 
(Carrai; Gareffi; Jordan; Ankli), which, together with the more than thirty essays 
that have appeared during the same time, point up the current critical interests 
and trends in Pulci studies, ranging from historical interests to hermeneutics and 
gender issues. Lebano emphasizes the importance of Paolo Orvieto’s essay “Sui 
rapporto Morgante-Orlando Laurenziano,” which overturns Rajna’s thesis by 
demonstrating that Orlando laurenziano did indeed derive from the Morgante and 
not vice versa. 

Mauda Bregoli-Russo’s “Rassegna della bibliografia boiardesca: 1983-1994” 
reviews 132 studies and identifies the past decade’s major trends in Boiardo 
studies: philological approaches, which make indispensable the much awaited 
new edition of the Inammoramento de Orlando (the only documented title of 
Boiardo’s masterpiece) by Antonia Tissoni Benvenuti and Cristina Montagnani; 
research tools, such as the publication of bibliographies (N. Harris), a 
concordance and rimario (David Robey and Marco Dorigatti); stylistic 
approaches; and studies focusing on both intratextuality and intertextuality. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


8 The Italian Epic & Its Europepan Context: An Introduction 


Finally, Bregoli-Russo laments the absence of comprehensive analyses of 
Boiardo’s oeuvre capable of suggesting critical directions to pursue in the future, 
and wishes greater collaboration among Boiardo scholars. 

Robert J. Rodini’s “Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993” 
continues previous work: his Ludovico Ariosto: An Annotated Bibliography of 
Criticism, 1956-1980 (Columbia: U of Missouri P, 1984), in cooperation with 
Salvatore Di Maria, his “Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism, 1980-87” 
(MLN 103 [1988]: 187-203), and additional bibliographies by other scholars in 
North America and Italy (Cavallo; Beer; Casadei; Cordié; Franceschetti; Looney). 
The most studied of all Renaissance epic poets, Ariosto has been the subject of a 
book-length study in North America each year since 1986. These books, together 
with a myriad of essays, indicate several major areas of critical concerns, which 
Rodini, in conjunction with Cavallo (1993), summarizes as follows: “Ariosto 
and allegory; intertextuality; studies on the Furioso’s characters; and Ariosto in a 
socio-historical context.” To these Rodini adds studies on patronage as well as, 
particularly in America, on feminist and gender issues. 

Taking the reader from the most probable inventor of the romance epic’s 
common metric form (the ottava stanza) to Trecento and Quattrocento epics to 
Ariosto and Tasso, the volume’s ten critical essays illustrate major critical trends 
in epic studies, bear on fundamental critical issues, and situate the Italian epic 
within an international debate. 

William Anderson’s “The Italian Background to Chaucer’s Epic Similes” is 
a study of both intra- and intertextuality, although the author never employs 
such terms. Discussing the literary history of Chaucer’s extended similes, 
Anderson defines them as acts of imitation from the Latin stilus altus. Anderson 
argues that the simple account of their history, tracing their sources to “Dante 
and to Boccaccio, who copied Dante,” is misleading in two ways: It ignores the 
importance of the Latin model common to Italian and English poets, and it 
obscures the brilliant variety of experimentation with that model in Italian 
poetry after Dante. The essay’s first section sketches an outline of critical 
attitudes toward the extended simile, with emphasis on the descriptive terms of 
the Ad Herennium as these were received in the Italian schools. The continuing 
importance of the classical model is then illustrated by Statius’s “Qualis 
Gaetulae . . . ad confraga / silvae venator” and its reappearance in Boccaccio’s 
Teseida and Chaucer’s Knight's Tale. The essay’s second section concerns the 
variety and the intellectual demanding character of similes in the vernacular 
works of Boccaccio and Petrarch. The essay’s third section examines the similes 
of Chaucer’s Troilus against this broad background in order to identify the major 
lines of influence and to characterize Chaucer’s distinctive handling of this 
rhetorical figure. Although Anderson’s analysis, which focuses primarily on 
Boccaccio and Chaucer but takes the reader also to Dante and to Latin antiquity, 
does not look ahead past Chaucer’s age, its main thrust on intra- and 
intertextuality, national and international contexts, cannot but have a major 


9 The Italian Epic & Its Europepan Context: An Introduction 


import on studies that seek to situate the epic, as Anderson suggests, “in the full 
context of classical and rhetoric in Italian literary tradition.” 

In the next essay Juliann Vitullo employs an interdisciplinary approach that 
takes into account anthropology and socio-history, hermeneutics and gender 
studies. In “Contained Conflict: Wild men and Warrior Women in the Early 
Italian Epic,” Juliann Vitullo problematizes the representation of marginalized 
groups in the early Italian epic. A long critical tradition has interpreted the 
Italian Carolingian epics of the late Middle Ages and early Renaissance as 
“bourgeois” rewritings of a French aristocratic tradition. For some scholars such 
an evaluation led to the dismissal of the Italian epics as vulgar copies of a 
previous aristocratic genre; for others, however, it brought about the celebration 
of a new democratization that the Italian chivalric epics seemed to embody 
because they arguably broke down the traditional class hierarchies of Old French 
chansons de geste. Vitullo’s study attempts to question such a dichotomy 
between “feudal” and “bourgeois” chivalric epics by analyzing how Italian 
communal writers questioned certain aspects of the genre while appropriating 
other elements to support the new urban power structures. A source of evidence 
for the notion of the Italian chivalric epic as a more democratic literary 
expression resides in the appearance of non-European peoples, workers, and 
women as virtuous and courageous protagonists in the texts. In problematizing 
the goal of representing such marginalized groups, Vitullo concludes that such 
narrative strategies were not always completely successfull. She also points out 
that women writers of the following generations felt empowered by the literary 
representations of the virago, although they often adopted the strategies of 
containment the male epic writers had also used “to limit the threat posed by the 
warrior woman.” 

After going with Anderson from late antiquity to the Middle Ages, and with 
Vitullo from the Middle Ages to the Quattrocento, readers now move into the 
high Renaissance epic with Elizabeth J. Bellamy’s essay: “Alcina’s Revenge: 
Reassessing Irony and Allegory in the Orlando furioso.” Bellamy’s point of 
departure is the Renaissance proclamation of the Furioso as a classic. For 
Bellamy the effort to “proclaim” the Orlando furioso not just as a classic but a 
properly “European” classic mostly centers on allegory — that is, the need by 
Ariosto’s commentators to make the poem properly allegorical. Bellamy, 
however, argues that much of the Furioso’s allegorical commentary exists as a 
kind of disavowal of Ariosto’s inherent ingegno, his wit, or, phrased more 
rhetorically, his irony. Thus she proposes a return to the Furioso’s oft- 
interpreted episode of Alcina and Logistilla as the poem’s most complex 
encounter between the conflicting impulses of irony and allegory. The real 
underlying anxiety for Logistillan allegory — Bellamy points out — resides not 
so much in viewing Alcina as a monstrous woman corrupting the fantasy of 
male purity, but rather in her “corrupt” matter (the locus of the episode’s irony), 
which may not contain a sufficiently transcendent or allegorical meaning. For 


10 The Italian Epic & Its Europepan Context: An Introduction 


Bellamy, therefore, Alcina “(ironically) serves as the powerful agent of a 
destructive allegory... .” 

Focusing, like Bellamy, on the Furioso, David Quint, in “The Death of 
Brandimarte and the Ending of the Orlando furioso,” goes far beyond the analysis 
of the death of Brandimarte, the only major Christian hero to die among all the 
paladins Ariosto inherits from Boiardo. Through internal parallels and 
intertextual allusions — most prominently to Pulci’s Morgante — Ariosto 
makes the dying Brandimarte a narrative surrogate for both of his poem’s twin 
heroes, Ruggiero and Orlando, whose deaths are fated but are not depicted in the 
Furioso. The death that is here displaced onto Brandimarte may thus be the true 
goal and significance of the “epic” closure of the Furioso. Accordingly, even 
though the Furioso, through political triumph and Christendom’s perpetuation 
as well as the foundation of the Este lineage and Ruggiero’s conversion, projects 
“meaning beyond the individual death,” Quint is nevertheless ready to propose 
that Brandimarte’s death in the Furioso responds “‘to the more universal sense of 
ending that is human mortality itself.” Thus this death may also qualify the 
Furioso’s “achieved ending, and perhaps all epic endings, as premature and 
provisional,” thus anticipating and suggesting “the logic of its dark sequel,” the 
Cinque canti. 

Moving between intertextuality and socio-historical issues, courtiership and 
the role of the poet, the essay by Ronald L. Martinez, “De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: 
The Money of Tyranny in Niccolo da Correggio’s Fabula de Cefalo and Orlando 
furioso 42-43,” offers a unified reading of Ariosto’s long and complex episodes 
of Rinaldo, which concluded the 1516 version of the Orlando furioso. Martinez 
organizes his reading around Ariosto’s elaborate imitation of plot elements from 
the Fabula de Cefalo of Niccolo da Correggio in the two novelle told to Rinaldo 
in cantos 42 and 43. This imitation, Martinez suggests, is invested with a 
peculiar intensity because of two contexts framing the tales: Ariosto’s own 
secret relationship to Alessandra Benucci (represented, though unnamed, in canto 
42) and the poet’s vexed relationship, as a courtier, to the Este dukes. Martinez 
goes on to argue that in such a frame the two accounts of how wives are seduced 
by money become a parable of the economic power of tyranny (classically 
understood) over its subjects. Ariosto’s transformation of da Correggio’s play in 
itself signals a change in the condition of courtiership between the late 
Quattrocento and the second decade of the Cinquecento, and thus points to a new 
role for the poet. 

Paramount in Anderson’s article and present in most of the other essays as 
well, comparative analysis occupies center stage in Patrick J. Cook’s “The Epic 
Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser.” According to Cock, Ariosto revived epic 
as a form responsive to Renaissance culture by systematically deploying Virgil’s 
generic structures derived from medieval romance. This mixture of forms allowed 
Ariosto at once to celebrate human aspiration to knowledge and power and to 
dramatize the epistemological difficulties this aspiration inevitably produces and 


11 The Italian Epic & Its Europepan Context: An Introduction 


encounters. In adapting Ariosto’s method to the Reformed culture of Elizabethan 
England, Spenser confronted new resistances to the imperial ideology implicit in 
the epic genre. In the first book of his Faerie Queene, Spenser pushes Ariosto’s 
method to a new extreme, dramatizing the difficulties of conduct in an even more 
decentered world characterized by perplexing multiplicity and insufficient points 
of reference. Cook’s essay runs counter to prevailing views on the two authors 
by portraying an Ariosto relatively less skeptical, a Spenser relatively more 
focused upon epistemological impasse, and an intertextual relationship between 
the two authors that is more intricately detailed. 

Also developing a comparative analysis, Lawrence Rhu’s essay, “Political 
Decorum in Spenser’s Imitations of Orlando furioso,” examines Edmund 
Spenser’s imitation of Orlando furioso in The Faerie Queene by discussing not 
only their sources in the Italian original but also their oft-announced destination, 
Queen Elizabeth, as both dedicatee and anticipated reader of this English epic 
romance. Decorous transformations of Ariostan irreverence are thus to be 
expected, and Rhu naturally focuses upon female figures and concerns of gender 
and power. But such transactions between the Italian poet and his English heir 
by no means enact predictable routines. Rather, they invite detailed scrutiny that 
complicates formulaic reductions and helps to reveal particular circumstances of 
Spenserian composition as well as willful ambiguities that sometimes obscure 
this poet’s intentions. Comparison with John Harington’s Tudor translations 
especially helps to illuminate the Elizabethan fortunes of Spenser’s main Italian 
model, which, by the end of the sixteenth century, had undergone a series of 
moralizations that put The Faerie Queene’s allegorical didacticism in telling 
perspective. 

The next two essays deal with Tasso’s Gerusalemme liberata, focusing on 
two different aspects of the epic. 

Albert Ascoli, “In Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in 
Gerusalemme liberata,” builds on the fundamental work of Sergio Zatti 
concerning the problem of difference in Tasso’s epic, as well as on importamt 
treatments, by Fredi Chiappelli and Timothy Hampton, of the intertwined 
Tassian themes of the tomb and the vow, to construct a symptomatic reading of 
the last two lines of the Liberata. Ascoli’s essay constitutes a gloss on the 
“quest for the Sepulchre” that shapes the Liberata’s narrative from beginning to 
end, and locates the poem within an epic “poetics of death” that stretches from 
Homer and Virgil, through Dante and Ariosto, and hence to Tasso — a theme 
David Quint also analyzes in his essay. Finally, the essay explores the tension 
between, on the one hand, the rigorously typological significance of that quest 
and that poetics as it appears in the tale of Goffredo and his compagni erranti, 
and, on the other, their ambivalence and instability when applied to the 
“metapoetic” experience of the author, whose narrative vow leads him, like his 
protagonist, onward toward the vacancy of the tomb. 

In “Tasso and the Witches,” Walter Stephens argues that the exordium of 


12 The Italian Epic & Its Europepan Context: An Introduction 


Gerusalemme liberata and the dialogue I] messaggiero expose the cosmological, 
ontological, and epistemological anxieties behind the most bizarre and degrading 
element of the whichcraft mythos developed by early modern literate culture: the 
notion that witches copulated with devils. For Stephens this misogynistic 
fantasy was not simply a curious sidelight but rather the unacknowledged core of 
the literate witch-mythos. Orthodox Christian ontology, as inherited from the 
Scholastics, needed to posit the copulation of witches and devils in order to 
assert that the scale of being was both complete and gradual. Unless this notion 
were true, there was no guarantee of ontological continuity between humanity 
and divinity. In fact, to the rationalistic mentality that had evolved in the late 
Middle Ages, the Incarnation no longer appeared an adequate guarantee of human 
access to the divine, for it depended upon paradox rather than transition. Tasso 
shows that the deep metaphysical rationale of literate which-hunters was not 
“cherchez la femme,” but rather “cherchez le diable.” 

In “La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte e Tredici 
canti del Floridano,” Valeria Finucci concludes the volume’s critical essays by 
chartering a totally new literary tradition, that of chivalric romances by women, 
and focusing on the genre’s likely best example: Moderata Fonte’s Tredici cantari 
del Floridoro (1581). Finucci’s essay runs counter to a common assumption that 
early modern women writers had mostly written Petrarchan love poetry, a genre 
easier to imitate technically, presumably more “in tune” with women’s 
emotional life, and also easier to publish because of its brevity. During the last 
few years, however, critics have begun to unearth women’s output in other 
genres, such as treatises (e.g., Moderata Fonte’s // merito delle donne) and 
dramas (i.e., Beatrice del Sera’s conventual representations). Finucci’s 
assumption can thus be summarized: In a century when it had become somewhat 
easier to become literate and publish, it should have made sense for women to 
write in the most popular and imitated genre, chivalric romance, even though its 
emphasis on knights, tournaments, and empires’ formation must have been 
rather removed from female sensitivity. Such literary activity by women, if there 
had ever been one, has hardly reached us, has mostly become lost, or is still to 
be discovered. By examining library catalogues, fondi antichi, and the output of 
publishing houses, Finucci has succeeded in unearthing a good number of 
chivalric romances by women. Furthermore, and perhaps even more importantly, 
Finucci’s essay seeks to demonstrate that it pays off to reread the whole tradition 
of chivalric romances in light of the changes a woman is likely to bring to the 
genre, whatever the critic’s asssessment of her work may be. By focusing on 
Moderata Fonte’s Tredici canti del Floridoro, Finucci does much more than 
examine an unfinished work or the epic’s value per se. In fact she seeks to 
unravel Fonte’s complex negotiations between the epic’s prevailing literary 
tradition and her feminity: on the one hand, the need to imitate the genre’s 
tradition, and specifically Ariosto, a sine qua non for publication and poetic 
success; and on the other, her female awareness that women can hardly share 


13 The Italian Epic & Its Europepan Context: An Introduction 


man’s pleasure in writing or reading about lady warriors being slaughtered, 
damsels-in-distress being raped, or the Oedipal struggles that are at the heart of 
the genre as it developed in Europe. 

In synthesis, Ad/ 1994’s ten critical and three bibliographcal essays fully 
accomplish the goals this volume set out to pursue: to take stock of the many 
and diverse studies on the epic that have appeared during the last decade; to test 
some of the critical ideas, both old and new, that are at the basis of most current 
studies on the epic; to charter a recently discovered literary tradition: chivalric 
romances by women; and to pay close attention to the Italian epic’s multiple 
interactions with its European developments, an attention that justifies the 
volume’s title. 

For the thirteen excellent contributions to this twelfth volume of Annali 
d’italianistica and the scores of book reviews, I am grateful to the journal’s 
contributors. They, and all previous collaborators, should be praised for their 
valuable contribution to scholarship throughout Ad/’s twelve years of sustained 
effort to serve its international readership and foster Italian studies in North 
America in close collaboration with scholars overseas. 


» 


th Ee ¢ ASL coos otates Nh iB A Raat it ef 


“S 
diye REEL OA WL la WW Ae He +p ew. 
angy! anid 0 eher VOR MS Li ae APE eR sol Heri here act 
2 Teepe Om Rcme toni g¥eR of eal 
“heme tieneweime Br!) ie CO ep. wee a 


nineitthe Pinte ghay wa ee DV AEP AGM) 6 parse 


; i BUS “as a a) Ae Py HE. = ahem 
mega. aff @ ore ae Hee) OH eS yey) 

tit enh ie nine en» YRS muy w Ws ne 
a! SheteteihyVaAhcaw? Rae Veowar 


i antl gape Tey Ait Rae i jor et be 
; Bure! = ye 


a ee a 


4!) yu jimi He 7 wh 05 a S Gina ~ wey aah: a 
re af te wasy a P) nth mt ee, leg OD, e a : me oe <i)" 
Jini Sanu weyrin tence Giehie ier emt tiie 
1emnr. Gi) Acting andthe -— ee a 
-_? SUPPL Ey - 
” — 
Pd - : > 
7m o 
ae ad 
; 5 
a 
- . 
Jj J ' eo + 
: = i 
7 ai _ 4 - 7 
: = 7 
_— - 7 a - 
: 
= - : & 
iy i 4 7 ; 
‘ 7. Oo = 
ov : ; 


David Anderson 


The Italian Background to Chaucer’s 
Epic Similes 


Galfridus Chaucer vates et fama poesis 
materme 
Stephanus de Surigone 


Geffrey Chaucier 
which in oure volgare had nevere ys pere 
of eloquencyale Retorryke 

John Shirley 


The noble Rethor poete of grete bretayne 
colophon, BL Harley 7333 


I. Rhetoric is the oldest topic in Chaucerian criticism even though Chaucer did 
not leave a treatise on “vernacular eloquence” that might have encouraged it. The 
subject is very prominent in the early English reception. References to style and 
especially to the high style appear throughout the fifteenth- and sixteenth-century 
writings on Chaucer, some of which, like the citations above, take it as the 
single distinguishing characteristic of the poet and speak of little or nothing else. 
The usual formulation refers to his introduction of rhetorical “flowers” or 
“ornaments”; he was the “first foundeur and embellisher of ornate eloquence in 
our englissh,” as Caxton put it in his epilogue to Chaucer’s Boece.' These terms 
come from Latin, school tradition, and the writers to which Chaucer is compared 
are typically classical Latin poets. A good example is to be found in the 
“Epitaphium” written by Stefano di Surigone, an Italian humanist who taught at 
Oxford in the third quarter of the fifteenth century. It praises Chaucer as the equal 
of Vergil because he brought similar fame to his native language. A century later 
Barnaby Googe used the early epic poet Ennius as a point of comparison, 
probably because of changes in the English language that had made Chaucer’s 
verses seem old-fashioned.” 


1 For John Shirley’s verses of ca. 1450, Spurgeon 49. The anonymous verses appearing as a 
colophon to the Parliament of Fowles in Harleian 7333 date to ca. 1450 (Spurgeon 53). They recall 
Lydgate, Life of our Lady ll. 1400 ff. For Caxton, see Brewer 75 and compare, inter alia, The Book 
of Courtesye (1477): “O fader and founder of omate eloquence / That enlumened hast alle our 
bretayne,” which looks back to Chaucer’s description of Petrarch in the Clerk's Tale. 

The topic appears as early as the late fourteenth century, with Deschamps comparing Chaucer to 
four ancient writers, three of them Roman (and as a poet specifically to Ovid: “Ovides grans en ta 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


16 David Anderson 


In contrast, modern literary history identifies the sources of Chaucer’s 
vernacular rhetoric in other medieval vernacular literatures. An early example is 
W. P. Ker, who described the background to Chaucer’s extended similes. Because 
this rhetorical figure is so closely associated with the high style, Ker’s remarks 
may well be set against the general remarks about rhetorical ornamentation in 
the early criticism. 


Dante was the first poet to imitate in a modern language the classical use of simile. 
Chaucer is the first English poet to use the epic simile and he seems to have taken the 
suggestion not from Vergil and Ovid but from Dante and from Boccaccio, who copied 
Dante. 

(Ker 69) 


Chaucer’s sources and inspiration were vernacular, in this case exclusively 
Italian. “He [took] the suggestion not from Vergil and Ovid” directly, but from 
“Dante and from Boccaccio, who copied Dante.” 

Both of these views have notable limitations. Neither the classical 
antecedents nor Dante, when named alone, will describe adequately the real 
background to Chaucer’s extended similes. Ker’s main point is well taken; there 
is no doubt that Chaucer, while composing the Troilus and Knight's Tale, 
worked from Italian texts. Later studies such as those of J. A. W. Bennett and 
his school, with a focus on the comparison of Chaucer’s writings with their 
Italian sources, have demonstrated how thoroughly the English poet knew these 
works. But there is more to the Italian background than this approach will 
reveal. Tracing a simple line of descent from Dante through “Boccaccio, who 
copied Dante” obscures the brilliant variety of experimentation in Boccaccio and 
in other Trecento writers and ignores the Latin models behind those experiments. 
Boccaccio, like Dante before him, worked with a critical model of the rhetorical 
form as well as literary examples of it. Chaucer clearly learned to do so as well. 
His similes are not translations from the Italian, they are new compositions. The 
early descriptions of Chaucer’s rhetoric, formulated in close proximity to his 
literary culture and reflecting something of his own understanding of the topic, 
acknowledge this by pointing to the classical Latin background. Moreover, the 


poeterie”. Stephanus de Surigone, from Brewer 77-78; cf. Spurgeon 59-60: 

pists hermione’ est docti musa Maronis 

qua didicit melius lingua latini loqui 

grande novumque decus Chaucer, famamque paravit 

heu quantum fuerat prisca britanna rudis 

reddidit insignem matemis versibus, ut iam 

aurea splendescat, ferrea facta prius. 
Bamaby Googe, from Brewer 106-07: “For since the time of our excellente countreyman Sir 
Geffray Chaucer who liveth in like estimation with vs as did olde Ennius wyth the Latines, there 
hath flourished in England so fine and filed phrases, and so good and pleasant Poets as may 
countervayle the doings of Virgil, Ovid, Horace, Iuvenal, etc.” 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 17 


history of the extended simile in the Trecento, like that of other classical figures 
of speech, was closely tied to the general question of the volgarizzamento or the 
reproposal of ideas and literary forms of the learned Latin tradition in the 
vernacular. The early English criticism of Chaucer effectively repeats this poetic 
of vernacularization. 

Something of the relevant history in rhetorical theory became apparent in 
1924 with Edmond Faral’s Les arts poétiques du xii® et du xiii® siécle. Faral 
described the tendency of these treatises to disparage figures of comparison as 
means for augmentation or description (68-70). Matthew of Vendome doubted 
the usefulness of the simile in its short and, especially, its long form, arguing 
that the ancients had used it to compensate for the intellectual poverty of their 
subjects. Christian writers need not encumber their greater themes with such 
ornaments. Eberhard repeated this argument; and although Geoffrey of Vinsauf, 
the most influential of the writers on the poetical arts, is slightly less harsh, he 
clearly prefers the short to the extended comparison. Faral then argued for a 
correlation between this prescriptive tradition and the use of formal similes in 
the poetry of this period, both Latin and French; the case proves more 
convincing with the vernacular poets.? In the poetry of this period from Chrétien 
de Troyes on, one finds many examples of the short comparison, but the 
extended comparison (simile per collationem) falls into great disfavor from the 
eleventh century on:4 


On ne saisit pas bien les raisons pour lesquelles le gout s’est transformé [after 1200]. 
Toujours est-il que la comparaison n’apparait plus qu’exceptionellement dans les 
chansons de geste, de méme que dans tous les autres genres littéraires. Dans les 
remaniements de sujets antiques, 1’Eneas, le Roman de Troie . . . les adaptateurs la 
suppriment partout ot leur modéle s’en est servi. 

(Faral 70) 


What Faral is suggesting is that practice was influenced by the prescriptive 
disapproval articulated in the treatises. And this is very interesting in the context 
of the Chaucerian simile and its history, for it was preeminently in their 
narratives “of antiquity” that Boccaccio and then Chaucer used this rhetorical 
figure. 

In effect, Les arts poétiques forces us to ask whether the similes in Dante 
and Boccaccio, cited by Ker as Chaucer’s models, and the general burst of interest 


3 The formal simile is hardly unknown in 12th century literature (Knapp; Schmidt). Ratkowitsch 
remarks the cultivation of ekphrasis in 12th century Latin poetry. 

The reservations extended to contemporary commentary on classical epic , e.g. Bernardus 
Silvestris In Aen. 6.48, “Intelligentia enim rethoricorum colorum omatum non quaerit, cum 
naturalem habeat pulchritudinem ” (ed. Jones and Jones 43); an attitude perhaps to be taken in the 
context of Bernardus’s defense of a philosophical poetry against the rhetorical mannerism of the 
contemporary Loire poets (Godman 594). 


18 David Anderson 


in the form during the Trecento, did not have a theoretical background as well. 
Something more of this background has become apparent now in the light of 
investigations of the arts courses in the medieval Italian universities. This work 
has for the most part been done in Italy, and it would only be appropriate to 
mention the name Giuseppe Billanovich as one of its prime movers. In general, 
one can say that the teaching of rhetoric in Italy was carried out on very different 
texts than in the north, and these by comparison to the artes poeticae entailed a 
distinctive revaluation of the classical stilus altus. Recent research has clarified 
the sequence of events that led to the appearance of classical descriptions of the 
high style in that influential tradition and in the rhetorics and poetics of 
vernacular writing that followed them. In this context, the burst of 
experimentation with similes in the Italian Trecento appears to be a 
manifestation of a new vernacular poetic as well as an indication of Dante’s 
unique genius and influence. 

In Italy the study of rhetoric in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries was 
characterized by the treatises on the artes dictaminis, written for courses at the 
universities.> At the beginning of this genre stands the treatise on good letter 
writing, the earliest known example of which is eleventh century and from the 
monastic school at Montecassino. Into its scheme of precepts and examples for 
the parts of a letter, teachers of the artes soon introduced rules for verbal 
expression in general, drawn from Cicero’s De inventione and the Rhetorica ad 
Herennium. By the early thirteenth century, several influential treatises had been 
compiled by authors associated with the university of Bologna: the Quadriga of 
Arsegino, the Boncompagnus and Rethoorica novissima of Boncompagno da 
Signa, the Candelabrum of Bene da Firenze, and the Summa dictaminis of Guido 
Faba, all containing extensive discussions of eloquence in writing and speaking. 
The affluence of Ciceronian rheioric into the university curriculum was then 
clearly related to developments in the chanceries at the major Italian courts. The 
Roman curia adopted the high style for its correspondence from the pontificate of 
Innocent III on, a circumstance that is explicitly noted by Bene da Firenze 
(Bruni, “L’ars dictandi” 172). Pier della Vigna, after taking a degree in law at 
Bologna and perhaps influenced by the example of the papal government as well, 
introduced the high style into the chancery of Frederick II. 

These developments in curriculum and chanceries were mature by the middle 
of the thirteenth century. The emphasis on classical rhetorical models for the 
high style was then augmented in the artes curriculum by the addition of the 
study of classical authors: in Bologna at least from the time of Giovanni del 
Virgilio early in the fourteenth century. As a student of Boccaccio’s and 


5 For overviews see Alessio; Bruni, “L’ars dictandi” (with extensive bibliography, 202-08). The 
northem treatises on the art of poetry circulated in Italy but were not much cultivated at the Italian 
universities. An exception is the commentary on Geoffrey of Vinsauf’s Pogtria nova by Pace da 
Ferrara; for bibliography see Stadter 149 ff. 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 19 


Petrarch’s age would have known it, the artes course began with Latin grammar, 
went on to the artes dictaminis texts, and was rounded out by the lectiones, or 
public reading and commentary, of the auctores, typically of a classical poet such 
as Vergil, Ovid, Lucan or Statius. 

This is undoubtedly the important generation for Chaucer, who encountered 
the intellectual landscape in Italy on his Italian journeys of the 1370s. Active 
before the middle of the fourteenth century, it knew the artes curriculum in its 
mature form, with the increased prominence of the lectiones ad auctores and was 
itself responsible, through the Petrarchan circle, for beginning the transition to a 
humanistic theory of composition that privileged direct imitation of classical 
poetry over discursive precept. Most important, it had seen the extension of the 
artes treatises to the vernacular and had written in the vernacular in the high 
style. The first Italian version of the Ad Herennium, known as the Fiore di 
rettorica, is attributable to Bono Giamboni and probably dates around 1260. 
Almost contemporary is Brunetto Latini’s Rettorica, based on the opening 
chapters of Cicero’s De inventione. Latini’s Tresor, written in French but soon 
translated into Italian, includes great amounts of classical rhetorical material as 
well as models for public address and for letter writing. And the second book of 
the De vulgari eloquentia, written in Latin by Brunetto’s great student ca. 1304, 
proposes a comprehensive rhetoric for vernacular prose and poetry.® One of 
Dante’s main theoretical contentions is that the vernacular can match the full 
range of subjects and styles in Latin literature. And among the three levels of 
style (humilis, medius, sublimus or tragicus) only the highest is suitable for the 
most important subjects. To this gravitas sententiae (profundity of thought) 
must correspond a superbia carminum (magnificence of the verses), a 
constructionis elatio (dignity of construction) and an excellentia vocabulorum 
(excellence of vocabulary), that is, a vernacular equivalent of the high style of 
Latin epic and tragedy. 

A correspondence between theory and practice of the sort surmised by Faral 
existed in Italy also, this time with a positive bias. The inventive variety of 
similes one encounters in Trecento Italian literature was underwritten by 
contemporary theory and criticism. The Italian tradition not only differed from 
the northern artes poeticae as regards the ornaments of the high style; it had also 
developed a distinctive rhetoric of vernacular composition. There was commerce 
between the Ciceronian descriptive literature and the classicizing aspects of 
vernacular writing that had one manifestation in the burst of experiments with 
similes. Although it is difficult to sort out the reciprocal influences, study of the 
classical poets, the rhetorical treatises, and vernacular imitation all proceeded 
together. 

Going back to Ker, one can now sensibly modify the thesis that the 


6 Wieruszowski; Buck; Folena; Bruni, “Semantica.” On the influence of Brunetto Latini’s rhetoric 
in England, Copeland. 


20 David Anderson 


reappearance of classical similes be traced straight to Dante’s genial encounter 
with classical poetry. The similes in the Commedia certainly had their influence. 
But it is important to see that a well-articulated model of the rhetorical form 
existed as well, and was also influential. Boccaccio and other writers of his 
generation did not copy Dante; they imitated this form as they knew it from 
Latin tradition. 

The great variety in Trecento similes is itself anticipated by this rhetorical 
tradition. The Ad Herennium clearly understands the aims of comparison to 
extend beyond discriptive vividness, and it proposes a range of possible types for 
the second term or res similis, for example an imago, an exemplum, an effictio. 
The imago is the typical comparison of one image with another, implying a 
certain resemblance between them. The exemplum gives a point of comparison 
that is narrative, historical or legendary: 


Exemplum est alicuius facti aut dicti praeteriti cum certi auctoris nomine propositio. 
(Exemplification is the citing of something done or said in the past, along with the 
definite naming of the doer or author.) 

(Ad Herennium 4.49) 


Boccaccio uses the term in his Esposizioni when describing the second term of 
Dante’s simile at Inferno 15.5: 


E, accio che egli dea pit piena notizia di questi argini, per due essempli dimostra la lor 
qualita, primieramente dicendo: Quale i Fiamminghi tra Guizante e Bruggia .. . 
Appresso dimostra l’autore per lo secondo essemplo, la qualita degli argini del detto 
fiumicello, dicendo: E qual i Padovan lungo la Brenta. 

(Esposizioni 666) 


With effictio the term of comparison depicts something clearly enough for 
recognition but without naming the actors. We shall come shortly to 
Boccaccio’s characteristic development of this narrative kind of comparison. And 
again, the appearance of so many different function words and structures in the 
Trecento similes goes back to something more than a concern for elegant 
variation. The idea of the applicatio or adaptatio from the rhetorical treatises is 
the underlying cause. The Ad Herennium stresses the importance of a precise 
application, usually through an explicit clause likening the res similis (the 
second term) to what it describes (the first term): 


In similibus observare oportet diligenter ut, cum rem adferamus similem cuius rei 
causa similitudinem adtulerimus, verba ad similitudinem habeamus adcommodata. 

(In comparisons we must carefully see to it that when we present the corresponding 
idea for the sake of which we have introduced the figure we use words suited to the 
likeness.) 

(Ad Herennium 4.48) 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 21 


The same terms are found in commentaries on the classical poets. One example 
of this will have to suffice in the present circumstances. A commentary on the 
Thebaid that Boccaccio possessed and used during the 1340s does not comment 
extensively on rhetorical forms, but it consistently remarks instances of the 
extended comparison, as in these glosses on Thebaid 1.370 ff. In the narrative, 
Polynices has wandered from Thebes to a wood near Argos when a storm comes 
up. With a nod at the first extended simile in the Aeneid, Statius here compares 
Polynices to a sailor: 


polinicem naute comparat qui in maris tempestate deprehenditur . . . adaptat 
comparationem. . 


Boccaccio in the Esposizioni assumes the same general structure. A simile is a 
comparatio; it involves a second term or res similis distinguished in several 
types, which is described at some length. And it is completed with the 
applicatio: 


E questo @ cid che l’autore in questa comparazione vuol dimostrare. E poi, per 
compiere la comparazion, segue... . 
(emphasis mine) 


The influence of this model and this terminology is apparent in Boccaccio’s 
explicit statements of comparison, which are often meticulously precise. A good 
example of the care with which he applies the second term to the first, in order 
to “complete” a comparison, will be observed in the simile from his Teseida 
discussed here below. And in this instance we can see Chaucer taking equal care 
to change the application when he adapts the simile to a different context. But 
the importance of the model is also evident in Boccaccio’s different kinds of 
implicit comparison, including the extension of an application beyond the stated 
tertium comparationis. Some examples of these are also discussed further below. 
Before examing them, however, it is useful to note that implicit comparison was 
amply documented in the rhetorical literature of Boccaccio’s time. The following 
definition from the Trattatello di colori rettorici will serve as a representatve 
example. The Trattatello is an anonymous treatise, probably written in Florence 
in 1329. It adds contemporary illustrations to a series of rhetorical colors, or 
figures of speech, whose definitions the author has drawn from the Ad 
Herennium: 


Consimilitudine questo colore si conosce quando tu di una similitudine non compiuta 
sanza adattalla al proposito. Esemplo: se Arezzo fosse assediato e mandasse per 


7 Emphasis mine. I quote the commentary from Berlin: Staatsbibliothek SPK MS lat. fol. 34, £.90". 
Esposizioni 16 litt. 9 (ed. Padoan 689). Other examples of Boccaccio’s use of this commentary in 
my forthcoming study, “Boccaccio’s Glosses on Statius.” 


22 David Anderson 


soccorso a Pisa, e ll’aringatore di Pisa si levasse e dicesse, “Signori pisani, io 
intendo che nulla bestia é si umile come il lupo quand’elli si sente legato” per questo 
apare che l’aringatore abbi l’animo grosso verso gli Aretini. 

(253-54) 


Such intellectually demanding, implicit extension of the comparison is 
characteristic of the longer similes in Dante’s Commedia and was developed in a 
somewhat different way by Boccaccio in the learned exempla of the Comedia 
delle ninfe and Teseida. 

Yet another of the developments characteristic of Boccaccio’a art finds a 
corresponding description in his Latin models. The Ad Herennium includes 
among the uses of comparison the provoking of laughter: 


Si defessi erunt audiendo, ab aliqua re quae risum movere possit, ab apologo, fabula 


verisimili . . . similitudine, novitate, historia... . 
(If the audience has been tired by a previous speaker, begin with something that 
makes them laugh, a tale or fable . . . a comparison or anecdote. . . .) 


(Ad Herennium 1.6.10) 


It notes also that hyperbole is often achieved through comparison (4.33), in a 
passage that effectively defines the humorously complicated simile beginning at 
Teseida 8.3-4. The first term is the noise at the beginning of the tournament, 
which is so loud that the poet professes to be unable to find an appropriate term 
of comparison. He tries the storm breaking around the mariner (with a glance at 
the great similes of Aeneid 1 and Thebaid 1); he tries the largest battle of the 
Roman civil wars (with a clear allusion to the Pharsalia); he tries adding up 
earthquakes and volcaneos, and then gives up by making a flamboyant appeal to 
the reader: 


sieges iis omai chente fu quello 
pensil ciascun che ha fior d’intelletto; 
forse che ’] sentira qual io ho detto, 
(Teseida 8.4.6-8)8 


The performance is recognizably Boccaccian. Dante would never have written it. 
And although Chaucer did not try a formal simile with this degree of hyperbole, 
Boccaccio’s humorous use of exaggeration, and his amused distance from the 
rhetorical form he has employed, were clearly influential in the development of 
Chaucer’s art. 


8 Another is Teseida 6.53-54, where Boccaccio offers an extended simile with the exemplum of 
Camilla as the second term. He later noted its scurce in the Aeneid as instance of hyperbole: 
[iperbole] “come fa Virgilio, che, per manifestare la leggiereza della Camilla, dice che ella 
sarebbe corsa sopra l’onde del mare turbato e non s’arebbe immollate le piante de’ piedi” 
(Esposizioni 1. litt. 1, ed. Padoan 23). 


The Italian Background to Chaucer’s Similes 23 


My point is that a well-articulated, descriptive model for similes stands 
behind the Italian experiments with the form and serves to characterize Chaucer’s 
as well. Only such a general model explains the relations between Chaucer’s 
works and their Italian sources. For very few of Chaucer’s similes are in fact 
translations of similes in Boccaccio’s work. In the Troilus, fewer than half can 
be traced to the Filostrato, and the longer they are the more likely it is they are 
Chaucer’s own compositions. In composing, he drew on a wide range of 
materials for the imago or exemplum and showed great variety in his clauses of 
application. Consider the similes in the Teseida and Knight's Tale. The longer 
Teseida is rich in extended similes, especially in the books describing the 
tournament and its aftermath (7-11). A prominent series likens the contestants to 
fierce animals, a convention Boccaccio adopted from his classical sources. He 
works a variation on this theme at 7.106, where, in a simile with a direct 
antecedent in Statius’ Thebaid, Boccaccio likens the fears and apprehensions of 
the young knights to those of a hunter waiting on the rush of a lion whose 
whereabouts and size can only be surmised from his roar and the sound of his 
movements through the underbrush. In his much shorter narrative, Chaucer gives 
us only one extended simile, but it is a fully formed creation eleven verses long 
framed by clauses of application and containing a remarkably elaborate vehicle. It 
is based on Boccaccio’s simile of the hunter from Teseida 7, but Chaucer places 
it in a different narrative context, rewriting the hunting scene completely. 

It is instructive to compare this Chaucerian simile with its classical as well 
as its Italian source. In Book 4 of the Thebaid Statius describes the auguries 
Tiresias and Manto carried out before Eteocles. What is revealed frightens him, 
with a fear that Statius describes at length by means of a simile: 


Qualis Gaetulae stabulantem ad confraga silvae 

venator longo motum clamore leonem 

expectat firmans animum et sudantia nisu 

tela premens; gelat ora pavor gressusque tremiscunt; 

quis veniat quantusque, sed horrida signa frementis 

accipit et caeca metitur murmura cura. 

(4.494-99) 
(Just as in the dense Gaetulian forest a hunter flushes a lion from its lair by shouting 
long and loud, and while he waits for it steadies his thoughts and grips hard on his 
sweaty javelins; his face is cold with fear, his legs tremble. — Which beast and how 
big it is — but he takes in the terrifying signs of its rage and measures the sounds in 
blind worry.)? 


Boccaccio uses the same simile in a different narrative context, at the beginning 


of the tournament in Teseida 7, where he describes the fearful apprehensions of 
the many participants: 


9] quote the Thebaid in the edition of D. E. Hill. 


24 David Anderson 


E ciaschedun per sé divenne tale, 
qual ne’ getuli boschi il cacciatore, 
a’ rotti balzi accostatosi, i] quale 

il leon, mosso per lungo romore, 
aspetta e ferma in sé l’animo equale, 
e nella faccia giela per tremore.. . 
(7.106.1-6) 


né sa chi venga né quale e’ si sia, 
ma di fremente orribili segni 

Ticeve nella mente, che disia 

di non avere a cio tesi l’ingegni; 

e ’] mormorar che sente tuttavia,... 
(7.107.1-5) 


It is true, as Ker might have remarked, that such comparisons of state of mind to 
state of mind are frequent in Dante. But Boccaccio is clearly working directly 
from a classical source here. His version shows signs of having been influenced 
by the interpretive glosses on the Thebaid; for example, his “a’ rotti balzi” for 
Statius’ “confraga,” which modern editors take to mean “dense undergrowth,” 
comes about by way of the gloss: 


qualis venator expectat leonem stabulantem ad confraga id est ad confractiones. 
aspera loca silvarum et deserta. dicuntur confraga a confringo, -gis. getule silvae. in 
getulia habundant leones. leonem dico motum id est commotum. clamore id est voce 
venatoris. vel rugitu leonis . . . tremiscit quia ignarus est. quis id est qualis. veniat id 
est venire debeat ille leo. id est quantum iratus et quantus in viribus. sed accipit id est 
audit. et metitur murmura id est rugitum leonis vel murmura sua. dicit enim apud se. ei 
mihi non evadam periculis.!9 


His expansion of “‘accipit” with two verbs, “riceve nella mente” and “sente,” may 
come from “accipit id est audet” in the gloss. And his handling of the 
grammatically ambiguous construction “Quis veniat . . .” as “né sa chi venga né 
quale e’ si sia” reflects the explanation “quis id est qualis, veniat id est venire 
debeat ille leo, id est quantum iratus et quantus in viribus.” 

The influence of such interpretive glosses on his translation only heightens 
the impression of the poet working closely and directly from a classical source. 
But he is not just translating. He works also with the general descriptive model 
of the simile. Note how careful he is to adjust for the plural number in his 
clause of application. Statius describes a single hunter and applies the example 
to one person, Eteocles; Boccaccio applies the exemplum to all of the knights 


10 For this passage I quote the commentary from Firenze: Biblioteca Riccardiana MS 842, f. 46v; 
and London: British Library, Add. 16, 380, f. 163Y. 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 25 


waiting to begin the tournament (“E ciaschedun per sé divenne tale, qual . . .). 
And he works with a conception of how similes may develop a unified pattern of 
imagery. The change of narrative context is accomplished to this end. Boccaccio 
places the hunter simile before a distinctive series of formal comparisons that 
liken the actions of the contestants in the tournament to the attacks of fierce 
animals. The series attempts to revive a convention of classical epic, and 
antecedents for each of each of these similes can be identified in Statius and in 
Vergil: 


[Arcita] “tale a veder qual tra giovenchi ... il fier leone” 


(7.115.1-2) 

“Qual per lo bosco il cinghiar . . . cotale entrd . . . Palemon” 
(7,119.1: "7: 8) 

“Ma qual la leonessa . . . cotal correndo Diomede” (8.26.1; 7) 
“E quale... il leone,/ cotal Pelleo” 

(8.49.1; 2-3) 


Boccaccio’s addition of the hunter simile anticipates this series by likening the 
apprehensions of each of these contestants to that of a hunter before such wild 
beasts. It effectively develops the conventional motif, alluding not only to 
classical traditon but to related comparisons in the Teseida itself. 

Chaucer does something very much his own with this simile but not 
without showing that he has taken in the main features of its broader literary 
background. He transfers the whole sequence of comparisons from Teseida 7-8 to 
the earlier scene of Palamon and Arcite in the Athenian grove. The narrative 
context is therefore similar but involves a battle of decidedly smaller scale. In 
describing it, Chaucer picks up the animal imagery by means of short 
comparisons: 


Thou myghtest wene that this Palamoun 
In his fightyng were as a wood leoun, 
And as a crueel tigre was Arcite. 

As wilde bores gonne they to smyte.... 
(1655-58)!! 


He moves the hunter simile also, giving it the full scope of eleven lines. As in 
the Teseida, it anticipates the other comparisons; and here it anticipates the 
arrival of another hunting party as well, that of Theseus, which will bring the 
fighting to an abrupt halt: 


And whan this duc was come unto the launde, 
Under the sonne he looketh and anon 


1] Ed. Fisher 36. But I change the punctuation at the end of KnT 1647 from a comma to a period. 


26 David Anderson 


He was war of Arcite and Palamon, 
That foughten breme as it were bores two. 
(1696-99) 


giving the patterned imagery yet another aspect. 

The one extended simile of the Knight’s Tale is essentially a new 
composition. Chaucer is, like Boccaccio before him, scrupulous about number 
in his two terms, here changing the single hunter to a plural, because the 
comparison is with Palamon and Arcite. Chaucer also specifies the first term 
differently than Boccaccio, who uses a verbal construction, 


E ciaschedun per sé divenne tale 
(7.106.1) 


which Chaucer replaces with the more concrete image of pallor: 


To chaungen gan the colour in hir face 
Right as the hunters in the regne of Thrace 


But the biggest changes appear in the narrative exemplum of the simile. Chaucer 
alters the place and nature of the hunt, and underscores its role in a comparison 
likening thoughts to thoughts by introducing a passage of direct discourse: 


Right as the hunters in the regne of Trace, 
That stondeth at the gappe with a spere, 
Whan hunted is the leon or the bere, 

And hereth hym come russhyng in the greves, 
And breketh bothe bowes and the leves, 

And thynketh, “Heere cometh my mortal enemy! 
Withoute faile, he moot be deed, or I, 

For outher I moot sleen hym at the gappe, 

Or he moot sleen me, if that me myshappe.” 
So ferden they in chaungyng of hir hewe. 
(1638-47) 


Direct discourse like this is unusual in a simile, though perhaps a logical 
development in similes comparing states of mind to states of mind. Examples 
can be found in Dante (e.g. Par. 31.103-11), but not in Boccaccio. It is 
interesting to note therefore the suggestion of direct discourse in the classical 
antecedent to Boccaccio’s simile. The grammatical construction of the passage is 
somewhat ambiguous, but Statius seems to have his waiting hunter ask himself 
“quis veniat quantusque” much as Chaucer’s hunters tell themselves, “Heere 
cometh... .” 

Whether or not Boccaccio’s classical source was also used by Chaucer — the 
probabilty seems strong — it is clear that Chaucer is thinking about Boccaccio’s 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 27 


similes against a background of a general model and is composing his own 
variations of that model. The extended simile of the Knight's Tale is of the kind 
Boccaccio had also written, but it is not a translation of Boccaccio’s simile. It is 
an English version of the classical form, just as Boccaccio’s similes are Italian 
versions of the classical form. The underlying poetics is one of 
vernacularization, not of translation from Italian. 


II. What has been said so far may be summed up as two corrections to Ker’s 
thesis. (1) The explosion of simile-making in fourteenth-century Italy was 
kindled by descriptive writings as well as by the practical example of Dante’s 
similes and can best be understood in the context of Italian concern for 
vernacularization of the high style, accompanied by a renewed interest in the 
classical models for that style. (2) Dante played an important role in this literary 
history, both in its descriptive aspect (in De vulgari eloquentia) and in practice 
(in the extended similes of the Commedia), but it is misleading to trace 
Chaucerian similes straight to Dante and to a Boccaccio “who copied Dante.” 
The real landscape was considerably more various, with Boccaccio and others 
developing the formal comparison in distinctive ways. It remains then to 
illustrate some of that variety and to observe Chaucer’s rejections and adaptations 
of the literary materials available to him. The exercise will suggests that 
Chaucer’s extended similes owe much to the distinctive practice of Boccaccio and 
something perhaps to that of Petrarch as well. 

I do not know whether the criticism of the ornatus rhetoricus so notable in 
the twelfth-century French writings on simile can be shown to have had a direct 
influence on the development of similes in fourteenth-century Italian literature. It 
is however tempting to think that disapproval of “mere descriptive ornament” 
lies behind the demanding, intellectual character of the vernacular similes, from 
Dante on. The Trecento Italian writers made demands on their readers through 
“learned” or allusive terms, for example, or extended applications. Comparisons 
in the Commedia often require awareness of thematic as well as descriptive 
similitude, forcing the readers’ thoughts from the descriptive realm and the 
faculties of physical sense to the philosophical arguments they incorporate. 
Lansing has described the tendency well: 


often in Dante’s similes one discovers the presence of submerged correspondences 
which are manifest only when one extends the logic inherent in the similes’ 
constituent parts or when one can perceive thematic interaction between a simile’s 
imagery and the narrative context... . 

(13) 


Typically the comparison is not only challenging because it extends over several 
points of similitude, but because it takes the reader’s thoughts from the narrative 
to its figural meaning. A related development has been noted in Boccaccio’s 


28 David Anderson 


highly allusive terms of comparison, drawn from the bookish world of ancient 
myth and history rather than from contemporary scenes or natural phenomena. 
Boccaccio’s “‘similitudine dotta,” as Velli calls it, requires the reader to recognize 
events in classical history or legend in some detail, so as to match them to the 
foreground sequences of narrative events. Moreover, the correspondence between 
narrative terms can extend far back or look far forward in both. Velli’s important 
essay, first published in 1974, offered the following passage from Comedia delle 
ninfe 18.36 for examination: 


Le quali voci, come a’ miei orecchi pervennero, non altrimenti mi fecero lieta che 
fosse il narizio duca gia ne’ porti della figliuola del Sole, di Cileno conosciuto 
l’avvento a sua salute. 

(Velli 157) 


Boccaccio’s immediate source for this relatively obscure classical myth is either 
Boethius, De consolatione 4.3, or Ovid, Fasti 4.69. Boccaccio refers to it 
elliptically. Its application then involves a further degree of difficulty for the 
reader, for the author makes reference to a very specific point in the narrative as 
the tertium comparationis. To understand the way in which Mopsa is joyful at 
hearing these voices, one must know not only who the “narizio duca” is but 
precisely what happened to him in a given circumstance. In other similes in the 
Comedia delle ninfe, the field of reference is similarly bookish, with a “‘ridotto 
grado di notorieta del veicolo” (Velli 161) that requires the reader again and again 
to move about quickly and carefully in that bookish field of reference. 

Velli’s article draws its examples from the Comedia delle ninfe where 
learned similes of this sort are the rule. Boccaccio’s Teseida and Filostrato, the 
two works of greatest interest to Chaucerians, present the form a little 
differently, and with a greater variety in the terms of comparison. Conventional 
imagery from the classical epics appear in both as well as similes adapted from 
Dante. But along with these one finds the bookish exempla as well, and these 
may involve very extended parallels with the foreground narrative (Anderson 57- 
65). For example, when Boccaccio likens the Amazons to the Danaides, the two 
narratives have many points of similarity, some still in the future with respect 
to the narrative context in which the simile appears. Boccaccio casts the 
comparison forward in time in his concluding verse: 

e come fer le nepoti di Belo 

nel tempo cheto alli novelli sposi 
cosi costor, ciascuna col suo telo, 
de’ maschi suoi li spirti sanguinosi 
caccid, lasciando lor di mortal gielo 
tututti freddi, in modi dispettosi; 

e ’n cotal guisa libere si fero, 


ben che poi mantenersi non potero. 
(Teseida 1.7) 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 29 


The function words (“come fer le nepoti . . . cosi costor ciascuna... caccid.. 
.e’ncotal guisa...ben che poi ... non”) underscore the sequence. Elements 
in both narratives may be correlated over an extended period. The words come and 
cosi mark the main terms; the rebellion of the Amazons is similar to the 
rebellion of the daughters of Danaus, who were ordered by their father first to 
marry their cousins and then to murder them on the wedding night. However, an 
extension of the comparatio is signalled with the third function word, “e ’n cotal 
guisa” applying the vehicle again, and implying that both Danaides and 
Amazons would find themselves “libere” as a result of their actions, although 
not permanently: the further point of comparison is left implicit, for the reader 
to discover, perhaps retrospectively at some point later in Boccaccio’s narrative. 
The Danaides were condemned to perpetual servitude as water carriers in the 
underworld (“ben che poi mantenersi non potero”) and the Amazons, too, will be 
overcome, in the later course of Boccaccio’s narrative, by Theseus, who carries 
them in triumph back to Athens. 

The “bookish” similes of the Teseida imply multiple points of 
correspondence with the main action, often looking forward to events yet to 
occur. The most remarkable example of this is the simile at 5.13, adapted by 
Chaucer as an apostrophe in the Knight's Tale, likening the rivalry of Palamon 
and Arcite to that of Polynices and Eteocles. Since the main action of the 
Teseida in its central books (3-8) is closely modelled on the Theban civil war 
caused by these two brothers, the simile in effect invites a comparison of 
Boccaccio’s entire poem to Statius’ epic of that war, the Thebaid. Other similes 
have less scope than this but nevertheless project the reader’s thoughts well 
beyond the immediate context. At Teseida 8.80, for example, Boccaccio describes 
the revival of hope and desire in Arcita at a difficult point in the tournament. The 
reinvigoration of Antaeus during his wrestling-match with Hercules forms the 
exemplum. It is applied to Arcita, who is exhausted (“molto faticato”) but is 
revitalized by the sight of Emilia (“mirando Emilia”). The play of narrative time 
in the two events is handled with great precision: The conclusion of the 
exemplum (Antaeus touching the earth and regaining his strength) brings us up 
to the present moment in the narrative; after seeing Emilia, Arcita returns to 
battle more energetic than ever before. Like Antaeus, he has gained the advantage 
in the contest. But there is an implied prediction as well, for Antaeus will later 
lose the wrestling match. Hercules will realize what gives him such strength, 
hold him aloft, and kill him. Arcita, too, after his success, suffers a sudden 
change in fortune, is thrown from his horse, and shortly thereafter dies. It is an 
implicit point of comparison, but thematically the most important, linking the 
story of Antaeus to the other examples of sudden changes in fortune that 
constitute a central theme of his narrative. 

Incidentally, one may notice here again the role of classical models beside 
those of Dante among Boccaccio’s literary antecedents. Boccaccio’s use of a 
narrative vehicle with an extended play against the main narrative finds one 


30 David Anderson 


precedent in the classical epic from which he worked directly while composing 
many passages of the Teseida. In Thebaid 6, each of the winners in five athletic 
contests is described by a formal simile and each simile likens its subject to a 
mythological figure. The application explicitly and conventionally offers praise 
of his athletic ability by this association with a god or hero; but this application 
is not the most important one. With typically dark irony, Statius suggests how 
the winners in the games will shortly die spectacular deaths in the war for 
Thebes. Polynices is likened to Phaethon, who stole his father’s chariot and lost 
control of it; Parthenopaeus to Hesperos; Hippomedon to Polyphemus, 
Capaneus to Tityos, Tydeus to Hercules and Antaeus. There can be no doubt 
Boccaccio new this series well. The first, that likening Phaethon and Polynices, 
is adopted as a brief comparison at Teseida 9.31; and as we have seen, Boccaccio 
adapts the simile of Hercules and Antaeus, the last in Statius’ series, for his 
revitalizaiton simile at Teseida 8.80. 

Petrarch’s vernacular similes should also be added to Ker’s list of Italian 
antecedents to Chaucer, that is to say along with the distinctive “bookish” 
similes of Boccaccio. Chaucer never translates a Petrarchan simile as such, but 
shows the influence of Petrarch’s distinctively self-conscious handling of the 
form, whereby certain formal aspects of the simile become subjects of discussion 
in their own right. An important instance is Rerum vulgaria fragmenta 135, the 
canzone “Qual pit diversa,” which appears just after the sonnet “S’amor non é” 
that Chaucer translated for the Troilus. It presents a highly elaborate series of 
comparisons as its main structuring element, seven similes spreading into six 
fifteen-line stanzas. In each one, the lover likens an exotic or magical thing to 
his experience in love. As Claudia Berra has recently pointed out, Petrarch gives 
each new and unexpected similitude a highly detailed application, involving so 
much crossing over of figurative elements from the one term to the other that 
the intellectual experience of wild comparing itself becomes a metaphor for the 
lover’s over-excited state of mind. The canzone seems to be exploring the limits 
of the rhetorical form itself, in all its aspects, terms, application, and its elegant 
variation and multiplication of function words or grammatical markers. 

The first two similes show this self-conscious exploration of the limits of 
the form. The first states the general premise of the sequence to follow and it 
opens with the quintessential function word identifying the res similis, “quale”: 


Qual pit diversa et nova 
cosa fu mai in qual che stranio clima 
(Rerum vulgarium fragmenta 135:1-2) 


The subject to which this vehicle will be applied is also doubled, and the phrases 
marked by two function words: 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 31 


Quelbas. iss, cysyars abyss, aysrepe eget, beags Soaeto, ye 
pil! mi rasembra; a tal son giunto, Amore. 
(135:3-4) 


The poet is saying that he “resembles” or has come to resemble, because of the 
workings of Amor, strange and marvelous things. The first thing is the phoenix: 


La onde il di ven fore 
vola un augel che sol, senza consorte, 
di volontaria morte 


rinasce, et tutto a viver si rinova. 
(135:5-8) 


It is like the lover’s will (voler), which a whole sequence of parallels will 
describe, drawn from verbal elements in the vehicle itself. The sequence is 
marked by repeated function words and grammatical parallelism in the verb 
phrases: 

Cosi sol si ritrova 

lo mio voler, et cosi in su la cima 

de’ suoi alti pensieri al sol si volve 

et cosi si risolve, 

et cosi torna al suo stato di prima: 

arde, et more, et riprende i nervi suoi 

et vive poi con la fenice a prova. 

(135:9-15) 


The conclusion of this simile recalls the whole vehicle and names the tertium 
comparationis in the two compared terms. The other five stanzas of the canzone 
are built like panels of equal size around five other comparisons articulated 
according to the same formal pattern, including the reprise statement in 
conclusion. 

This canzone has no verbal echo in Chaucer’s works, but the kind of self- 
conscious development of the form does; as does the characteristically Petrarchan 
use of simile to describe the effects of love on a lover’s thoughts. Troilus 
contains several similes of similar kind. 


III. The similes of Chaucer’s Troilus were composed as a parallel act of 
vernacularization of a Latin model rather than a consecutive act of translation 
from Italian originals. This critical sense behind his work can best be judged 
against the wider Italian background sketched above. It is apparent in the fate of 
Boccaccio’s similes in Chaucer’s hands and the new similes he adds to his text. 
We have briefly considered the Knight's Tale and Teseida in this regard, where 
the shorter English work preserved one extended simile, and the imagery of one 
sequence of similes. The proportions of Troilus and the Filostrato are reversed: 


32 David Anderson 


Chaucer’s work is longer, and not for any addition to the narrative but for the 
added ornaments from the classical high style. It is therefore especially 
suggestive to notice the complex fate of Boccaccio’s similes in Chaucer’s poem. 
Chaucer rarely translates them directly. As many as half are omitted entirely, but 
in compensation Chaucer has added similes where Boccaccio has none. In other 
instances he adapts the terms of a simile to another rhetorical form. 

The English function words alone do not tell us much. The Ad Herennium 
had stressed the importance of applicatio, and the burden of this falls in part on 
the terms used to govern the simile. Italian poets used three pair of function 
words most frequently (and they tend to reserve these terms for use in formal 
comparisons): tale/quale (or cotale), cosi/come and non altrimenti/che, each of 
which has a clear antecedent in Latin. The last of the three was not adopted by 
Chaucer, who used no such “not unlike” construction in his extended similes; 
and at one place we catch him jettisoning the formula as he translates a simile 
from Boccaccio. At Filostrato 4.27, Troiolo is likened to a slaughtered bull with 
the formula: “Né altrimenti il toro . . . che Troiolo.” Chaucer converts the 
function words even while keeping the other terms the same: “Right as the wilde 
bole . . . right so” (4.239). His preferred markers for long similes have the 
intensifier right with as and so; and this pair of words, with or without the 
intensifier, are used where Boccaccio has “‘tale quale” or “cosi come.” The simile 
at Troilus 2.967, like the extended simile in the Knight's Tale, opens with 
“Right as” and then marks the second term with “so”: “Right as floures . . . 
right so” (cf. Filostrato, “quali i fioretti . . . cotal....” At Troilus 4.1432, the 
same formula corresponds to “cosi/come”: “And as the briddes . . . right so” (cf. 
Filostrato 4.138, “Si come augel . . . cosi”). The employment of the intensifier 
seems not to be very significant. In the opening simile in Troilus, an extended 
simile without a direct antecedent in the Filostrato that draws attention to itself 
as a self-contained rhetorical performance both by its placement and its length, 
Chaucer nevertheless uses the milder “so/as” pair. 

The remarkable aspect of Chaucer’s manner of articulating the terms of a 
simile is the variety of other structures he finds to replace the standard “right as 
just so” formula. Most of Chaucer’s similes are in fact unique with regard to the 
grammatical form of their application. Consider for example at Mars 236 ff., 
where the second term is introducedd with “lyk a fissher” and the subject with 
“hit semeth” (“‘he hath enmyte”). The simile likening Pandarus’ careful planning 
to the building of a house, which has sources in Latin tradition but not in the 
Filostrato, depends largely on implicit markers, moving from a generalization 
“For everi wight,” to a specific application, “Al this Pandarus thought.” There is 
another implied comparison at Troilus 2. 862 ff., where the statement to the 
effect that “crying about love has no more effect on the beloved than looking at 
the sun has on the sun,” is built up with a succession of rhetorical questions 
linked by the conjunction “or.” We have already noted the simile from the 
Teseida that appears in the Knight's Tale as an apostrophe (Teseida 5.13; KnT 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 33 


1623-27). Beside it could be placed Troilus 3.1212 ff., which begins as an 
apostrophe (“O sooth is seyd”) but turns into a formal comparison when the 
vehicle is applied through a self-conscious “I mene it here as for this aventure. . 

Like Boccaccio in the hyperbolic comparison of Teseida 8, Chaucer often 
presents the poet in the act of finding, or applying, a term of comparison. A 
legendary term used in Anelida and Arcite is introduced like this: 


But as the swan, I have herd seyd ful yore, 
Ayeins his deth shal singen his penaunce. 
So singe I here my destinee. .. . 

(AA 346 ff.) 


And remarks on the origin or nature of the res similis appear with terms drawn 
from everyday experience also: 


And lyk a fissher, as men alday may se, 
(Mars 237) 


But as we may alday oureselven se, 
Thorugh more wode or col the more fir 
(Troilus 2.1331-32) 


The same self-consciousness about the act of comparing can be seen when 
Chaucer makes use of indescribability formulas. Criseyde’s beauty is superlative: 
“Nas nevere yet seyn thyng to been preysed derre” (1.174); its singularity may be 
described only at the top of a hierarchy: 


Right as oure firste letire is now an A 
In beaute first so stood she, makeles. 
(Troilus 1.171-72) 


A res similis either has been found or it has not; Chaucer calls attention to the 
act of comparison both ways. 

His independence from the specific terms of Boccaccio’s similes is also 
evident in the selection or invention of a res similis. In Troilus these are usually 
drawn from the everyday realm of human experience; often the natural world of 
plants and animals, but occasionally the events of civic life as well. Boccaccio’s 
characteristic “bookish” similes do not appear in the Filostrato, and the type does 
not appear among the extended similes in the Troilus either, though Chaucer’s 
shorter comparisons may introduce a legendary vehicle (5.212, “as doth he Ixion 
in helle”). Boccaccio’s influence shows more strongly in Chaucer’s handling of a 
series of related similes. Those in the Filostrato have a certain uniformity; they 
describe the experience of Troiolo and Criseida in love through one of two 


34 David Anderson 


patterns of imagery: either the simile proposes a comparison with some state of 
fire and water or it concerns a natural cycle of some kind, usually the blooming 
and fading of plants in the course of a day, a year, or in response to some 
unexpected event. Both sequences are introduced early in the narrative. At 
Filostrato 1.56 Troiolo remarks that he will return from the brink of dispair if 
Criseida will love him (“‘tornerd qual fiore in vivo prato”); then at 2.80 an 
extended simile describes the revival of his hopes in terms of flowers that reopen 
with the morning sun; the octave at 3.12 is an extended simile likening his joy 
to the rebirth of the natural world in spring; and the similes at 4.18 and 4.27 
describe the effects on him of the decision to exchange Criseida for Antenore: he 
is like a lily quickly fading after it is cut by a plow; he is like a bull slaughtered 
by a blow to its head. The reiterative imagery has a predictive aspect like that of 
Boccaccio’s learned comparisons in the Comedia delle ninfe and Teseida. From 
the beginning of the narrative they imply that the present joy of the lovers is 
frail and transitory; then the figures of cut flowers and dying animals later in the 
poem confirm these implications. The anticipation of future events is not 
articulated in the early similes, but is implicit in the imagery. 

Chaucer’s similes have a broader range of terms than those of the Filostrato, 
and they are applied to a greater variety of subjects. Where Boccaccio focuses on 
reinvigoration first and then fragility, Chaucer treats other subjects, including, in 
a Petrarchan mode, the state of mind of the lovers. But the general pattern of 
Boccaccio’s comparisons is adopted and developed. Chaucer too employs the kind 
of repetitive, allusive imagery in his terms of comparison to suggest transience. 
He does so by gathering some of Boccaccio’s flowers more or less directly. He 
drops the first short reference (along with the rest of the stanza at Filostrato 
1.56), but translates the extended simile at Filostrato 2.80: 


But right as floures, thorugh the cold of nyght 
Iclosed, stoupen on hire stalkes lowe, 
Redressen hem ayein the sonne bright 

sud PEE ISO coisa POMS. chticcds su eee 

(2. 967) 


The joy that Troilus anticipates (3.351) is described in another comparison drawn 
from his source: 


E si come la nuova primavera 
(3.12) 


In the reprise of these motifs after the downward turn in the lovers’ fortunes, 
Chaucer ignores the comparison of the flower cut by the plow, but in its place 
composes a new one, presenting a tree in winter without leaves. The different res 
similis has the same application, to Troilus’s depressed spirits. Chaucer then 
keeps Boccaccio’s simile of the dying bull (Filostrato 4.27, Troilus 4. 239 ff.), 
with much the same application. 


The Italian Background to Chaucer’s Similes 35 


Some anticipation of this pattern had been prepared in two closely placed 
comparisons in Book 2. The narrative context has Troilus receiving an 
encouraging letter from Criseyde. His response is described by the narrator in a 
comparison of growing desire to a quickening fire as coal or wood is added to it. 
Chaucer takes this term of comparison from the Filostrato and adds a second: 


Or as an ook comth of a litel spir 
(251335) 


The tertium comparationis here is apparently the great size attained by an oak 
tree, despite its small beginnings. The figure returns almost immediately then in 
an extended comparison in a speech by Pandarus, where however the great oak is 
being cut down, and the figure is applied differently: 


Thenk here-ayeins: whan that the stordy ook, 
On which men hakketh ofte, for the nones, 
Receyveth hath the happy fallyng strook, 
The greete sweigh doth it come al at ones 
(2.138 0ff.) 


The literary antecedents in classical epic tradition are now clear, for the felling of 
a great tree is a conventional comparison for heroes falling in battle. Pandarus is 
applying it here to Criseyde rather than to Troilus or more precisely to the task 
of winning her. But the earlier use of the same figure and its martial antecedents 
may well suggest to the reader that it be applied to Troilus as well. 

This is what happens in an extended comparison at 4.225. This simile, with 
nicely balanced attention to its two terms, describes the lover’s dispair at the 
imminent departure of his beloved. Its second term has only tenuous connections 
with the corresponding simile at Filostrato 4.18 (“Qual giglio nei campi 
dall’aratro intaccato . . . appassa’’), direct antecedents in Vergil (Aeneid 6.309 f.), 
and Dante (/nf. 3:112 f.), and, I propose, important analogues in Petrarch. With 
it Chaucer reintroduces the great tree and, in a move reminiscent of Petrarch, he 
reintroduces “bark” metaphorically in the second term as the “bark of care or 
sorrow”: 


And as in wynter leves ben biraft 

Ech after other til the tree be bare, 

So that there nys but bark and braunche ilaft 
Lith Troilus, byraft of ech welfare, 

Ibounded in the blake bark of care... . 

So sore hym sat the chaungynge of Criseyde. 
(4.225-231) 


It also completes the series of comparisons of the lovers to transient living 


36 David Anderson 


things, growing throughout the first part of the narrative and dying as it draws to 
a close, the end foreshadowed in the beginning. The series, if not this simile, 
clearly takes its inspiration from Boccaccio. 
* Ok 

It has not been my aim to examine the similes of Chaucer’s Troilus 
systematically but to represent the English poet against a diverse background, in 
which classical models and the similes of Dante’s Commedia are joined by the 
distinctive inventions of Petrarch and Boccaccio. Chaucer’s closest antecedent 
appears to be Boccaccio. Although he chose not to adopt Boccaccio’s 
characteristic “bookish” terms in his similes, Chaucer was clearly influenced by 
the underlying principle of allusive challenge. Like Boccaccio, he offers terms of 
comparison that may be applied to the narrative action and its associated themes 
well beyond the immediate narrative context in which the simile apppears. From 
Boccaccio, too, comes the repetition of details in the term employed, the 
fighting animals of the Knight’s Tale and the dying plants of the Troilus, which 
serve to point up the extended application. What seems to be implied in the first 
appearance of a term of comparison is often made more or less explicit in its 
second or third appearance. 

In conclusion it is appropriate to ask how the foregoing observations reflect 
on the two views of literary history with which this paper began. Although 
sorely tested, W. P. Ker’s old thesis about the background to Chaucer’s extended 
similes may be said to survive, at least in its central contention about the 
importance, for Chaucer, of the appearance of that rhetorical figure in the 
vernacular poetry of fourteenth-century Italy. It requires more significant 
adjustments, however, so as to admit the great variety proper to that Italian 
background. I propose it be restated as follows, broadening Ker’s exclusive focus 
on Dante’s practice to include theory, and changing the dismissive 
characterization of Boccaccio as one who “copied” Dante: “Italian Trecento 
writers, beginning with Dante, were responsible for a renewed interest in simile 
as an element of vernacular eloquence, or vernacular imitation of the Latin high 
style. Chaucer took the suggestion for his extended similes from these writers, 
imitating the classical model in ways reminiscent of Dante and Petrarch, and 
especially of Boccaccio.” This emended thesis has much in common with the 
earlier school of Chaucerian commentary, so eager to compare Chaucer with 
classical authors. For it is this poetics of vernacularization, with its Italian 
antecedents, that the early Chaucerians identified in Chaucer’s works when they 
praised him as master of the rhetorical figures in English. To say that Chaucer 
was “the noble rethor poete of grete bretayne” is much the same as asserting that 
he took the suggestion for imitating a classical rhetorical figure from Italian 
precedents, as long as both statements are placed in the full context of classical 
rhetoric in Italian literary tradition. 


Universitat Tiibingen 


The Italian Background to Chaucer's Similes 37 
Works Cited 


Manuscripts 

Berlin: Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Stiftung Preussischer Kulturbesitz, MS lat fol. 34. 
Described in Rose, Verzeichniss 1304-08. 

Firenze: Biblioteca Riccardiana MS 842 (olim M.III.2). Described in Anderson, 
Knight's Tale 227-28. 

London: British Library, Add. 16, 380. [Described in Anderson, Knight's Tale 227.] 


Printed Works 

Alessio, Gian Carlo. “Le discipline.” Manuale di letteratura italiana Vol. 1. Torino: 
Boringhieri, 1993. 886-939. 

Anderson, David. Before the Knight’s Tale: Imitation of Classical Epic in 
Boccaccio’s Teseida. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1988. 

_. “Boccaccio’s Glosses on Statius.” Studi sul Boccaccio 22 (1994; 
forthcoming). 

Bernardus Silvestris. The Commentary on the First Six Books of the Aeneid 
Commonly Attributed to Bernardus Silvestris. Ed. J. W. Jones and E. F. Jones. 
Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1977. 

Berra, Claudia. “L’arte della similitudine nella canzone CXXXV dei Rerum vulgarium 
fragmenta.” Giornale storico della letteratura italiana 163 (1986): 161-99. 

Boccaccio, Giovanni. Tutte le opere di Giovanni Boccaccio. Ed. Vittore Branca. Vol. 
2. Filostrato, Teseida, Comedia delle ninfe. Ed. Alberto Limentani, et al. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1964. Vol. 6 Esposizioni sopra la Comedia di Dante. Ed. 
Giorgio Padoan. Milano: Mondadori, 1965. 

Brewer, Derek, ed. Chaucer: The Critical Heritage. Vol. 1: 1385-1837. London: 
Routledge, 1978. 

Bruni, Francesco. “L’ars dictandi e la letteratura scolastica.” Storia della civilta 
letteraria italiana. Vol. 1. Torino: UTET, 1990. 155-208. 

. “Semantica della sottigliezza.” Testi e chierici del Medioevo. Genova: 
Marietti, 1991. 91-133. 

Buck, August. “Gli studi sulla poetica e sulla retorica di Dante e del suo tempo.” Atti 
del Congresso Internazionale di Studi Danteschi. Vol. 1. Firenze: 1965. 249-78. 

and Max Pfister. Studien zu den volgarizzamenti rdmischer Autoren in der 
italienischen Literatur des 13. und 14. Jahrhunderts. Miinchen: Fink, 1978. 

Chaucer, Geoffrey. The Complete Poetry and Prose of Geoffrey Chaucer. Ed. John H. 
Fisher. 2nd ed. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1989. 

(Pseudo-)Cicero. Ad C. Herennium de ratione dicendi. Ed. G. P. Gould. Trans. H. 
Caplan. Loeb Classical Library. Cicero I. Cambridge: Harvard UP 1954. 

Copeland, Rita. “Lydgate, Hawes, and the Science of Rhetoric in the Late Middle 
Ages.” Modern Language Quarterly 53 (1992): 57-82. 

Dante Alighieri. De vulgari eloquentia. Ed Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo. Opere Minori. 
Ed. Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo et al. Vol. 2. Milano: Ricciardi, 1979. 

Faral, Edmond. Les Arts poétiques du xiie et du xilie siécle: recherches et documents 
sur la technique littéraire du Moyen Age. Paris, 1924. Rpt. Paris: Bibliotheque de 
l’Ecole des Hautes Etudes, 1962. 

Folena, Gianfranco. “‘Volgarizzare’ e ‘tradurre.’” La traduzione. Trieste: 1973. 59- 








38 David Anderson 


120. 

Godman, Peter. “Ambiguity in the Mathematicus of Bernardus Silvestris.” Studi 
medievali 3rd. ser. 21 (1990): 583-648. 

Ker, W. P. “Chaucer and the Scottish Chaucerians.” Rpt. in his Form and Style in 
Poetry. London: Macmillan, 1928. 

Knapp, Fritz Peter. Similitudo. Stil- und Erzahlfunktion von Vergleich und Exempel 
in der lateinischen, franzdsischen und deutschen GroBepik des Hochmittelalters. 
Stuttgart: Braumiiller, 1975. 

Lansing, Richard H. From Image to Idea: A Study of the Simile in Dante's Commedia. 
Ravenna: Longo, 1977. 

Ratkowitsch, Christine. Descriptio Picturae. Die literarische Funktion der 
Beschreibung von Kunstwerken in der lateinischen Grofdichtung des 12 
Jahrhunderts. Wiener Studien 15 (1991). 

Rose, Valentin. Verzeichniss der lateinischen Handschriften der K’6niglichen 
Bibliothek. Vol. 2. Berlin, 1905. 

Schmidt, P. G. “L’ornatus difficilis nell’epica latina.” Retorica e poetica tra i secoli 
XII e XIV. Ed. C. Leonardi and E. Menesto. Perugia, 1988. 125-38. 

Scolari, Antonio. “Un volgarizzamento trecentesco della Rhetorica ad Herennium: il 
Trattatello di colori rettorici.” Medioevo Romanzo 9 (1984): 215-66. 

Spurgeon, Caroline F. E. Five Hundred Years of Chaucer Criticism and Allusion, 
1357-1900. Vol. 1. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1925. 

Stadter, Philip A. “Planudes, Plutarch, and Pace of Ferrara.” Jtalia medioevale e 
umanistica 16 (1973): 137-62. 

Statius. P. Papini Statii Thebaidos Libri XII. Ed. D. E. Hill. Leiden: Brill, 1983. 

Velli, Giuseppe. “Sulla similitudine dotta del Boccaccio.” Petrarca e Boccaccio: 
tradizione, memoria, scrittura. Padova: Antenore, 1979. 156-71. 

Wieruszowski, Helene. “Rhetoric and the Classics in Italian Education of the 
Thirteenth Century.” In her Politics and Culture in Medieval Spain and Italy. 
Roma: Edizioni di Storia e Letteratura, 1971. 


Juliann Vitullo 


Contained Conflict: 
Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 





Representations of monstrous races appeared both in written and figural texts 
throughout antiquity and the Middle Ages. From the fifth century B.C., when 
Herodotus first reported stories of fabulous races in India, western writers became 
fascinated with the depiction and analysis of the monstrous peoples they believed 
existed in the East (Wittkower 159). Church fathers debated the status of such 
populations, attempting to decide whether or not the hybrid monsters should be 
considered part of God's creation or contra naturam. St. Augustine set a precedent 
when he stated that if such races did exist and were truly human, then they must 
derive from the sons of Noah. He even hypothesized that God might have created 
such monstrous races to dissuade us from interpreting abnormal births as a 
failure of his divine plan (Wittkower 168). Thus, St. Augustine both collapsed 
and at the same time sustained the opposition of western man/eastern monster by 
claiming that such diversity contributes to the beauty of the whole — to the 
unity of the creator's plan. Many late medieval writers followed St. Augustine’s 
lead and accepted the existence of eastern monsters while absorbing them into a 
Christian framework. 

In the early Middle Ages a text known as the Marvels of the East spread 
images of wild races such as pygmies, giants, creatures with a single large foot 
used as an umbrella, and a hybrid race, half-human/half-dog, known as 
cynocephali. These collective fantasies made their way into various types of 
written texts including philosophical treatises, bestiaries, and chivalric epics 
(Husband 5-7). 

During the 12th and 13th centuries, the wild man with his characteristic 
hairiness, gigantic stature, and club or tree branch for a weapon emerged as a new 
monstrous race (Husband 7). His particular identifying traits combined features 
of earlier monstrous races yet also differentiated him from those eastern 
counterparts. Artists and writers ignored these subtleties and simply placed the 
western wild man within the textual framework of the Marvels of the East 
(Husband 42). In the late Middle Ages and Renaissance, according to Friedman, 
the wild man “by metonymy . . . [comes] to represent all of the races, or at least 
the memory of all the others" (200). 

Represented as both feared and desired, the wild man became a common 
figure in late medieval literature and art. He was feared because he represented 
temptation and chaos, all that was free of religious and social control. The wild 
man’s club also suggested violence, and some authors, following St. Jerome’s 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


40 Juliann Vitullo 


choice of the word pilosi to describe demons, interpreted his hairiness as a sign 
of immorality, especially lustfulness (Husband 11). The depiction of the wild 
man living in the woods, however, also elicited desire because he symbolized a 
source of power seemingly untainted by social and political corruption 
(Bernheimer 144-45).! As a result, European explorers and scholars would later 
use the prototype of the idealized wild man to interpret their encounters with the 
“noble savage” of the New World (Friedman 199). 

John Friedman, in his book on the monstrous races in medieval art and 
thought, lists four other fabulous populations that European authors depicted as 
noble savages throughout the Middle Ages (164). One of the races he lists is the 
Amazons, a group that Jacques de Vitry praised for both their military skills and 
their chastity (170-71). Authors of the early Italian epic often exalt a similar 
figure, the warrior woman, for those very same traits. 

Numerous scholars in recent years have focused on eastern cultures as the 
primary form of the Other in the medieval epic tradition. I propose to examine 
the connection between this monstrous Other from the East and two other forms 
of alterity, the worker as wild man and the woman as Amazonian warrior, which 
appear in late medieval epics of northern and central Italy.” 

The first figure I will look at, Pulicane, comes from the story of Buovo 
d’ Antona, and exemplifies how Italian epic writers adopted the images of 
monstrous races from the East, in this case the cynocephalus with a human body 
and the head of a dog. Critics such as Daniela Delcomo Branca (304) and 
Henning Krauss (Epica feudale 202) have interpreted these monstrous epic 
characters as symbols of a new democratized concept of chivalry, which 
developed in late thirteenth-century Italian communes. According to these 
readings, monsters such as Pulicane represent a new bourgeois concept of society 
in which every man, even if he has the head of a dog, may “earn” the status of 
signore. 

Delcorno Branca’s article on the history of the Buovo narrative describes the 
popularity of the Beuve a’ Hantone chanson de geste in Italy during the fourteenth 
and early fifteenth centuries. After pointing out that the Saracen giant of the Old 
French epic, Acopart, transforms into the dog-headed figure of Pulicane in the 
Italian versions of the story, Delcorno Branca focuses on an early fifteenth- 
century version of the tale by the Tuscan writer Andrea da Barberino who 
expands the function of the hybrid creature by embellishing his role with a 
theological discussion, dating back to St. Augustine, about whether monstrous 
races have souls (Delcorno Branca 304). In fact, the cynocephali had been the 
focus of this debate among theologians for centuries because many of their 


1 Bemheimer views the identification with the wild man as an example of the aristocracy’s 
“reversion to primitivism” in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. 

For some of the most recent work on representations of Muslims in early Italian epics, see 
Franceschetti’s “On the Saracens in Early Italian Chivalric Literature” and Allaire’s “Portrayal of 
Muslims in Andrea da Barberino’s Guerrino il Meschino.” 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 41 


mythical behaviors were considercd rational (D. G. White 60-67). 

While I agree with Delcorno Branca that this ethical discussion attempts to 
humanize that which is fantastic and monstrous about Pulicane, such an 
inclusive and egalitarian notion contradicts the text’s equally strong support of 
aristocratic privilege and a rigid social order. A scene that illustrates these 
contrasting tendencies occurs when Buovo and his wife Drusiana escape from the 
Saracen King Marcabruno who wants to marry Drusiana against her will. 
Pulicane is sent by Marcabruno to capture the couple. When he catches up with 
them, however, Drusiana reminds Pulicane that she had once saved his life by 
claiming his status as a rational being, and she asks in return that he take Buovo 
as his lord and adopt the Christian faith: 


O Pulicane, é questo il merito che tu mi rendi del servigio che io ti feci, quando io ero 
d’eta di nove anni, che tu fusti menato per essere arso nel fuoco ardente, e dicevano 
che tu eri nato di mortale peccato, e generato d’animale inrazionale, come era uno 
mastino, in una femina razionale, e io ti domandai di grazia al padre mio, e scampa’ti 
dalla morte? E ora tu mi vuoi fare morire me e ’] mio signore? ché sai che Buovo é 
primo mio marito. O franco Pulicane, quando mi renderai merito di quello ch’io t’ho 
allevato e nodrito, se tu non mi meriti a questo punto? Or non credi tu che Buovo ti 
possa fare gran signore? E faratti battezzare in acqua santa, e sarai fedele cristiano. 

(I reali di Francia 343-44) 


In this passage, the author Andrea da Barberino uses terms from a tradition of 
philosophical texts such as “animale inrazionale” and “femina razionale.” Yet, 
Andrea has placed the scholastic debate about the status of wild men within the 
context of a feudal pledge. Pulicane’s status as a rational being with a soul 
depends on his fealty to a noble, Buovo. God’s grace can only be obtained by the 
wild man through the agency of a feudal lord. In other words, the “bourgeois” 
philosophical discussion uses the terms of a feudal discourse. 

Unlike Pulicane, whose alterity derives not only from his subordinate class 
status but from his pagan religion, the woodsman Varocher in the Franco-Italian 
Marciano XIII narrative Macaire has no religious characterization. In the early 
fifteenth century, Andrea da Barberino retold the late thirteenth or early 
fourteenth-century tale of Macaire in his text Le storie nerbonesi, changing 
Varocher’s name to Ispinardo and his profession to that of a coalman. Varocher 
and Ispinardo performed jobs on the margins of urban culture; yet despite the low 
status accorded such workers in fourteenth-century Italian communes, both the 
anonymous writer of the Macaire text and Andrea da Barberino represent their 
character as a wild man whom the nobility seems to accept. Just as cynocephali 
lived on the edges of the known world in Africa and in Asia, wild men inhabited 
the margins of urban culture (D. G. White 68). 

In order to illustrate the role of the wild man in the Italian chivalric epic of 
the late Middle Ages, I would like to digress briefly and look at Hayden White’s 
analysis of the representation of the noble savage in eighteenth-century Europe. 


42 Juliann Vitullo 


In his article on the noble savage as fetish, White explains how such a figure 
fulfilled the ideological needs of the rising bourgeoisie: 


. . . the rising classes needed a concept to express their simultaneous rejection of the 
nobility’s claims to privilege and desire for similar privileges for themselves. The 
concept of the Noble Savage served their ideological needs perfectly, for it at once 
undermined the nobility’s claim to a special human status and extended that status to 
the whole of humanity. But this extension was done only in principle. (194) 


White stresses in this passage that, although the equal status extended to all of 
humanity in theory, in reality it functioned only to empower the bourgeoisie. 
While the fetishized Other of the eighteenth-century bourgeoisie is distinguished 
from the medieval wild man in that his/her difference derives from foreign 
identity rather than lower class status, these two figures resemble each other in 
that the extension of equal rights they represented occurred only in a token 
manner, demonstrating that these egalitarian ideals existed only in theory. 

To illustrate this point, let me return to the Macaire narrative. Varocher 
earns the status of a knight by saving the Queen of France from an attack by the 
wicked Maganza clan. Macaire, representing this evil faction in the tale, falsely 
accuses Charlemagne’s wife, Biancofiore, of adultery with a dwarf. Charlemagne 
eventually realizes that Biancofiore is innocent of the charges and has Macaire 
quartered. By this time, however, the pregnant Queen, exiled by the Emperor, 
had already been abandoned in the forest. There Biancofiore meets the woodsman, 
Varocher, who helps her leave the forest and return to her father, the King of 
Hungary. Upon learning of the injustice against his daughter, the King of 
Hungary declares war on Charlemagne. During the ensuing battle, the Queen’s 
father dubs Varocher a knight and eventually the woodsman and Ogier reconcile 
the two sides. 

When the Macaire narrator first describes Varocher, he uses less than 
complimentary terms: 


En soa man oit un gran baston prendu; 

Grant fu e groso e quaré e menbru, 

La teste oit grose, le gavi borfolu: 

Si stranges hon no fo unches veu. 

(Macaire 14773-76) 
(In his hand he carried a big club; he was big, large, square and strong. He had a big 
head, and dishevelled hair: such a strange man has never been seen.) 


Later, Varocher will be labeled “hairy” (velu) and a “wild man” (salvaco). Yet 
despite such negative characteristics, the woodsman proves himself a powerful 
warrior and intensely loyal to the Queen and her father. The narrator, however, 
does not judge the woodsman’s motives for his service or the means by which 
Varocher helps the Queen and her father. For example, when Biancofiore first 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 43 


meets Varocher in the woods, she gains his assistance by offering him a reward 
or guiderdon. In a later scene, as Varocher returns the Queen to her father, they 
stay at an inn where the woodsman intimidates the innkeepers so that they 
follow his orders. 

The Hungarian King dubs Varocher a knight, and his peers comment on 
how the trappings of chivalry have completely changed him. Yet, even after his 
conversion, Varocher alters his tactics very little. As a final example of 
Varocher’s willingness to use any means necessary to protect his patrons, during 
the battle with Charlemagne the woodsman leads a group of men into the 
Emperor’s camp and ransacks it while the French knights sleep. The raiders take 
everything: equipment, arms, horses, gold, and silver. When Varocher recruits 
the men for this “honorable” campaign, he proves his knightly largesse by 
promising enough booty to make them and their families rich. The narrator 
describes Varocher as a wild man and a thief; yet, this “ideal” knight is also 
blindly loyal to the cause of the “just” family with whom his interests are linked 
even when they are in exile. As reward for both his thievery and his loyalty, 
Varocher receives immense wealth and prestige. 

It is hard to believe that wealthy Northern Italian merchants identified with 
the woodsman Varocher. Because of his rough appearance and unchivalrous 
actions, it seems more likely that the new urban elite would have sympathized 
with the nobility in these romance epics. Varocher does, however, represent a 
new concept of chivalry in which the knight earns his status, and if he is loyal 
enough, can even come from the most humble background. This 
“democratization” of the mythology of chivalry in Carolingian epics allowed 
communes and the aristocracy that controlled them to maintain the polarization 
of vilain and noble, yet also to promise that the exceptional vilain, if he were 
loyal to the right faction, might enter the privileged group. 

In several Old French chansons de geste, such as Raimbert’s version of the 
Chevalier Ogier, epic writers describe Italians as incapable of fulfilling the duties 
of a knight. Despite the rise of mercantile and administrative classes within their 
own communes, French authors often represented the Lombards as cowardly 
warriors whose status as knights depended more on wealth and profession than 
on blood line (Krauss, “Ritter und Biirger” 209-15).3 Thus, the French 
aristocracy’s fear of social mobility, of the economic changes that had begun in 
their own cities as well as in Italy, was displaced onto the foreigners, the 
Lombards. 

So as not to accept the role of scapegoat, the Italians rewrote the Old French 
romance epics and in the process adopted a different approach that seemed to 


3 For example, Krauss quotes the following verses from the chanson de geste, Les Narbonnais, in 
which it is explained that Lombards cannot be good knights because they are merchants: “Par 
Dieu, Lonbart, trop estes bobancier. / Ne devez pas a franc home tencier. / Chevalerie n’est pas 
vostre mestier, / Mes trosiax vandre et monoie changier” (vv. 1608-11). 


44 Juliann Vitullo 


embrace “earned” social mobility. In La Prise de Pampelune, Lombards take the 
city of Pampelune for Charlemagne, who rewards them with the fulfillment of 
their leader’s three wishes. The Lombard leader, Desiderio, asks that all 
Lombards become free men, that all those with enough possessions have the 
opportunity to become knights even if they are not of noble origin, and that all 
Lombards can carry a sword in front of the Emperor (La Prise 10). This romance 
epic not only exonerates the Lombards from the French accusations of cowardice, 
but attempts to redefine the institution of knighthood. A knight now “earns” his 
position as evidenced by his possessions rather than his blood lineage. Yet, both 
Desiderio and Charlemagne are dynastic rulers, and the apparent democratization 
of chivalry in La Prise de Pampelune clouds the issue that many of the men who 
were wealthy enough to become knights came from or married into noble 
families. 

While this new construction of chivalry empowered the elite of the 
emerging mercantile, administrative, and artisan classes, it did not usually extend 
to workers. The new definition of knighthood does not challenge the old one but 
rather modifies it to the needs of a new urban aristocracy dependent on the 
support of the popolo.* The new patricians wanted the kind of autocratic power 
possessed by the German Emperors and French Kings without the economic 
submission required for alliances with such rulers. The apparent democratization 
of chivalry was one answer to that dilemma. 

The difference of the monstrous man in chivalric epics is not only defined in 
terms of his status as an easterner or foreigner but — in the case of Pulicane, 
Varocher, and Ispinardo — by his social class. Yet, few upwardly mobile wild 
men lived in real Italian communes. Despite these textual representations, 
laborers rarely assimilated into the urban aristocracy but rather remained as alien 
to the communal nobility as the figures in the Marvels of the East. 

Another textual model for the wild men of the early Italian epic is the 
Saracen giant Rainourt, who appears in several different epics of the Old French 
Guillaume cycle. The chanson de geste which expands and delineates this 
character, Aliscans, enjoyed considerable success both within France and on the 
Italian peninsula. A Franco-Italian version exists dating from the middle of the 
fourteenth century, and the narrative is retold in Florentine by Andrea da 
Barberino towards the beginning of the fifteenth century in his Le storie 
nerbonesi. 

Rainourt and the wild men of Italian epics share several features: their 
gigantic stature and power, their preference for a club rather than a sword, their 
humble professions, and finally their generosity and fidelity. Rainourt, however, 
also shares Pulicane’s eastern origins as he is the son of a pagan king and the 
brother of the Saracen princess, Guiborc, who marries Guillaume. Even though 


4 Krauss argues that the character Varocher represents a new, democratic “volksheer” in Italy 
("Ritter and Biirger” 221). 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 45 


he is of noble origin, Rainourt descends to the level of a wild man and is forced 
to work as a kitchen-helper at the court of the French King before he transforms 
into a knight and later converts to Christianity. Like Varocher, even after 
Rainourt reintegrates into the social and military elite, he elicits laughter from 
his fellow knights (and presumably the epic’s audience) by confusing the social 
codes of the vilain with those of a knight: he rides his horse backwards, 
overindulges in food and drink, and scorns the use of a knight’s proper weapon, a 
sword, for his enormous finel or Herculean club. 

In exception to the standard critical view of feudal chansons de geste as less 
democratic than their bourgeois Italian copies, Rainourt demonstrates the 
existence in Old French epics of wild men who move up in social status. Rustic 
vilains who transform into chivalric heroes appear in several late Old French 
epics including Gaufrey, Gaydon, and La Chevalerie Doon de Mayence (Newth 
xxv). In one of the first studies written on the Rainourt character in 1909, the 
critic Alberto Friscia interprets the Saracen wild man as a metaphor for the new 
urban population of France’s twelfth-century communes, which refused the 
oppression of the landed aristocracy and the church. He compares Rainourt to the 
working people who seem good and charitable in everyday life but if angered 
might transform into monsters difficult to control (55-56). In a similar but less 
dramatic fashion, Henning Krauss, in a 1980 analysis of the Marciano XIII 
manuscript, theorizes that the wild man Varocher represents a protobourgeois 
ideology, which promotes equality for everyone and denounces the concept of 
nobility by birth (Epica feudale 202).° 

These analogous interpretations of wild men in chivalric texts seem to 
question the notion that the early Italian epic represents a new bourgeois world 
view particular to Italy. Such interpretations perpetuate the notion of a 
communal social order in which wealthy merchants, artisans and administrators, 
the so-called bourgeoisie, ally with the workers to fight the traditional nobility. 
The complex world of both French and Italian communes which historians such 
as Jacques Le Goff and Gene Brucker have described do not necessarily support 
such a notion of communal social order. The ideologies of new social groups 
that were able to assimilate into the communal aristocracy often did not openly 
question the privileges of the elite but instead tried to appropriate them. 

Le Goff argues that much like their Italian counterparts seigniorial and 
bourgeois classes in French medieval cities shared many of the same economic 
interests and created what he terms a “feudo-bourgeois” culture (244). French and 
Italian texts describe similar hybrid groups: the gros and the menus in France and 
the popolo grasso and the popolo minuto in Italy. Although Le Goff points out 
that the French groups were never as well organized and self-conscious as their 


5 Krauss qualifies this interpretation when he states that the generic mediation of the chanson de 
geste, with its feudal values, prohibits Varocher from completely embodying a bourgeois self- 
consciousness (202). 


46 Juliann Vitullo 


contemporaries in Italian city-states such as Florence, he refers to the gros as the 
patricians of French communes, a new urban aristocracy whose “golden age” was 
the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries (331-32). 

The role of the monarchy in France and the relative independence of Italian 
city-states created notable differences in the urban development of the two 
countries, but the similarities are also important. Although it left less of a mark 
on French cities than on Italian communes, the landed aristocracy influenced the 
development of these growing municipalities. Thus, both in France and in Italy, 
the Carolingian epics served as a vehicle for spreading chivalric mythology in 
urban societies as the new feudo-bourgeois patricians searched for traditions to 
legitimize their own power and glorify their bloody factional violence. 

The Old French chanson de geste, Aliscans, not only offers a model for the 
figure of the wild man, but for yet another marginal figure in early Italian epics: 
the warrior woman. Rainourt’s sister, Guiborc, marries the Christian hero 
Guillaume d’Orange. Although she does not actually engage in battle, Guiborc 
dons armor and encourages the other ladies of Orange to follow her lead so that 
they might defend the city while Guillaume goes to seek aid from the King in 
Paris. When the pagan forces arrive before Guillaume’s return, Guiborc and the 
other ladies keep them at bay by throwing rocks down on the invaders’ heads 
from the towers. This strategy earns them some time and the respect of the 
narrator. The competence of Guiborc and her rock-throwing ladies quickly comes 
into question, however, when Guillaume returns in disguise but his wife does 
not recognize him and refuses to open the gate for the epic hero. In both the case 
of Rainourt and of his sister Guiborc, humor is used to differentiate workers and 
women who have donned the trappings of chivalry from the true knights whose 
prestige the exploits of these temporary surrogates serve only to enhance. 
Christian men with titles remain the model of behavior, the paragon of virtue 
and courage. Although the medieval epics rewrite the various forms of the Other 
(Easterner, worker, and woman) in terms of the ideal knight, the authors of such 
texts add a humorous element to these new characterizations so as to reestablish 
the social hierarchy. In the words of Peter Stallybrass and Allon White: 


The Other must be transformed into the Same, the savage must be civilized. . . ; but at 
the same time, the Other’s mimicry . . . is treated as absurd, the cause of derisive 
laughter, thus consolidating the sense that the civilized is always-already given... . 
(41) 


As Aliscans demonstrates, the woman in armor, like the wild man, appears 
as a figure both in fourteenth-century chansons de geste as well as the Italian 
epics (Newth 33). The Guillaume cycle epics, however, did not serve as the only 
textual model for such figures. Classical tales about Amazons also contributed to 
long-standing notions of gender difference and women’s essential inferiority. 

Benoit de Sainte-Maure’s twelfth-century reworking of the classical tales of 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 47 


Troy into a French epic, Le Roman de Troie, functioned as one of the most 
important sources of information about Amazon mythology throughout the late 
Middle Ages. Benoit introduces the Amazons by describing their “great land” 
somewhere in the East, which he calls Amazoine or Femenie.® These warrior 
women live without men most of the year, but from April to June they inhabit 
an island covered with precious trees and herbs, where the most valiant of the 
Amazons mate with men from nearby lands. The male children stay with their 
mothers for only one year before they are given to their fathers to be raised, 
while the female progeny remain citizens of Amazoine. Benoit emphasizes the 
women warriors’ strength and prowess (14). He also makes clear, however, that 
the warrior women’s ability to defend themselves and their space threatens men: 
any man who dares to step on their land will be cut to pieces (15). 

The Norman writer then somewhat softens this picture of the Amazons by 
describing their leader’s retention of feminine qualities. Panthesilée is both 
beautiful and courageous in battle: 


Proz e hardie e bele e sage, 

De grant valor, de grant parage, 

Mout ert preisiee e honoree. 

(vv. 23287-89) 
(Corageous, bold, beautiful and wise, of great valor and lineage, she was very 
esteemed and honored.) 


The Queen’s unique combination of feminine and masculine attributes reappears 
when Benoit explains her reasons for offering military assistance to the Trojans: 
she wants to see her love-interest Hector, but also intends to win rewards and 
booty.” 

Once Panthesilée arrives in Troy with her legions of Amazons and discovers 
that Hector has been killed by the Greeks, her yearning to see the Trojan hero 
transforms into a desire to avenge him. She does so admirably — equalling the 
Greek hero Pirrus in both arms and words. At one point, Pirrus sees his fellow 
Greeks fleeing from a battle that they had been losing against the mighty 
Amazons. He chastises his men for allowing themselves to be overcome by 
mere females. Panthesilée then responds to Pirrus by claiming that she and her 
soldiers are not “ordinary” women, who are vain and fickle: 


Tu cuides que nos seions taus 
Come autres femmes comunaus, 
Que les cors ont vains e legiers: 
€o n’est mie nostre mestiers. 


© The description of Amazoine appears on pp. 12-14. Benoit uses the term Femenie on p. 36, v. 
23691. 

7 Kleinbaum describes Benoit’s Amazons “as a hybrid of both male and female virtues” (51). She 
attributes this “faintly positive image” to the influence of courtly love. (58). 


48 Juliann Vitullo 


Puceles somes: n’avons cure 

De mauvaistié ne de luxure. 

(vv. 23999-24004) 
(You believe that we are all like other ordinary women, who have vain and fickle 
hearts: that is not our calling. We are maidens: we do not pay attention to either evil 
or lust.) 


The Queen goes on to say that Amazons carry arms and protect their own land, 
but above all she defends their extraordinary status by proclaiming that, unlike 
most women, they are chaste, engaging in sex only for procreative purposes. 
Thus, Panthesilée upholds the traditional ideal of chastity for women, while 
critiquing her sex’s tendency towards concupiscence. 

Although she articulates a notion of female sexuality that he favors, Benoit 
must kill off Panthesilée for her martial hubris. Pirrus and the other Greeks gang 
up on Panthesilée, hacking the Amazon Queen into small pieces. Benoit 
concludes the description of Panthesilée by commenting: “C’est damages” (65). 
The woman who thought she was as virtuous as a man dies with little dignity. 

A thirteenth-century Italian author who frequented the court of Frederick II in 
Palermo, Guido delle Colonne, used Benoit’s text as the basis of his Historia 
Destructionis Troiae, which then became the most popular vehicle for 
communicating the medieval tales of Troy; there are over 150 manuscripts of 
Guido’s text that was translated into French, German, English, Spanish, 
Flemish, Bohemian, and Italian (Meek xi). Through both vernacular and Latin 
texts such as Benoit’s and Guido’s, the myth of the Amazon warriors contributed 
to debates about gender difference in Italy as well as the rest of Europe.’ 

Boccaccio’s treatise on famous women, De mulieribus claris, serves as an 
important example of the contradictory nature of such classical representations in 
late medieval Florence. Just as Benoit depicted a Queen of the Amazons who 
described herself as having overcome women’s natural moral and physical 
weakness, Boccaccio praises his Penthesilea for having “tamed” the “softness” of 
her female body with virile exercise (Boccaccio 730).? Boccaccio then goes on to 
question the whole notion of essential gender qualities by asserting that usus or 
custom can change one’s nature (Boccaccio 731). He claims that idleness can 
feminize men’s nature just as military exercise had improved Penthesilea’s into a 
virago. Boccaccio contains the threat presented by his admission that gender is 
defined in cultural terms, however, by continuing to represent masculinity and 
femininity as binary opposites, with the former as the superior identity.'° 


8 Rajna was the first scholar to note that the warrior woman of the Italian Carolingian epic evolved 
out of the medieval stories of Troy (49). 

For a more complete analysis of how Boccaccio measures women according to their ability to 
act like men, see Jordan and Benson. 
10 Tomalin refers to this contradictory argument as “double-think” (25). Jordan discusses parallels 
between Boccaccio’s view of women in De mulieribus claris and his description of the popolo in 
De casibus virorum illustrium. The ideological similarities echo those shared by the figures of the 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 49 


Women receive praise only when they are as virile as men. St. Augustine 
hypothesized that monsters from the East served as a reminder of the order of 
God’s universe; in a similar fashion, Boccaccio conceived of warrior women as 
monstrous figures whose discomforting presence actually strengthened the notion 
of a rigid feminine/masculine dichotomy. 

Like Benoit and Boccaccio, the authors of early Italian epics develop 
strategies of praising and yet also containing warrior women. In various 
fourteenth and fifteenth-century Italian versions of the chanson de geste, Chanson 
d’Aspremont, the warrior woman, Galaziella, appears for the first time. 
Galaziella is the daughter of Penthesilea, and a Saracen king Agolante. Andrea da 
Barberino mentions that Galaziella is an illegitimate daughter of the King; from 
her first appearance in the text her difference is marked by the term bastarda 
(L’ Aspramonte 44). Galaziella immediately stands out in yet another way; she 
does not follow the longstanding literary model of the lady who encourages her 
love interest as she watches jousting matches from a balcony.!! Instead the 
warrior woman sighs in disappointment because she would like to participate and 
defeat the male contestants whose skills she can surpass. After her brother arms 
her so that she “seems” a knight, Galaziella overcomes several Saracen 
opponents. 

It is at this point that the narrative reinscribes Galaziella into the proper 
social order; she makes a deal with her father that she may marry any man who 
can beat her in a duel. In all the versions, Galaziella’s father or brother states that 
the warrior woman should only marry a man who can control her through 
physical force. In the Tuscan Cantare d’ Aspramonte, it is Galaziella herself who 
first decides that she should marry a man who can dominate her. 


Dammi parola, padre, per tu’ onore, 

che ss’io truovo uomo di me pil possente 
il qual m’abatta per suo gran valore 

in piana terra del destriere corrente, 

ched io il prenda per marito e signore. 
(VI, 13) 


Once again, the threat to established notions of gender provoked by the 
appearance of the warrior woman is contained by the naturalized social 
dichotomy of masculinity/femininity. The woman who has defied the binary 
construction of gender states that her father must honor this essential social 
order. The Christian knight, Riccieri, defeats Galaziella and she immediately 
insists on converting to Christianity and marrying her former opponent. 


warrior woman and the wild man in the early Italian epic (43-44). 

1 Ajiaire points out that women watching male military games from a balcony is a common image 
in classical and medieval literature that defines the “feminine” as “passive observation and 
confined space” ("The Warrior Woman” n. pag.). 


50 Juliann Vitullo 


Galaziella, the warrior woman, quickly transforms into Galaziella, the wife and 
mother. 

Furthermore, in Andrea da Barberino’s prose version of the story, the 
narrator directly relates the threat of Galaziella to patriarchal rule with the 
Saracen threat to Christian supremacy.!? Before the description of Galaziella’s 
masculine behavior, a Saracen king, Galafro, who wants to make peace with the 
princess’ father, Agolante, offers her a gift. Galafro gives the warrior woman a 
sword; in fact, the world’s most famous sword, Durindarda, which had once 
belonged to the Emperor Charlemagne. After this exchange in which the phallic 
symbol of power has been passed to a woman, Andrea da Barberino states that 
Galaziella took pity on the Saracen king because of her “cuore feminile” (46). 

The term feminile had only been used once before in the epic when Andrea 
da Barberino berates buffoni. In an aside to the audience, the narrator claims that 
jongleurs tend toward a feminine soul, which makes them cowardly and envious 
(39).!3 For Andrea to assert that Galaziella’s nature is feminine, or in other 
words, weak and envious, suggests that she should not be the bearer of this 
sword as it is a symbol of patriarchal power. The rest of the epic deals with how 
to restore the phallus to its rightful owner, the Christian emperor. Just as 
Galaziella must accept the authority of her husband, the Saracens must accept 
their subordination to the Christians. 

Unfortunately, Galaziella’s domestic bliss ends very quickly when she and 
her husband are attacked by Saracens allied with Riccieri’s jealous brother. 
Riccieri is killed and Galaziella is condemned to die by her Saracen father, who 
had opposed his daughter’s marriage to a Chrisitian knight. At this point, Andrea 
da Barberino informs us that his unreliable oral sources differ as to subsequent 
events. Some say that the pregnant Galaziella was burned at the stake, while 
others claim that her brother imprisoned her in Africa, and still others that she 
gave birth to twins. 

The fifteenth-century Laurenziano Palatino manuscript 101, vol. II, narrates 
the last of the three versions.!4 Galaziella is on her way to be imprisoned in 
Africa when she tells the captain that she has a strange craving to put on her 
armor. The captain gives in to the apparent whim of the pregnant princess, only 
to be overwhelmed by her military skill. Galaziella forces the captain to set her 
free on an unknown shore where she follows a road into a city. On her journey 
she just happens to run into an enormous, threatening snake, which she kills 


12 Zemon Davis discusses how in the late Middle Ages the “relation of the wife — of the 
potentially disorderly woman — to her husband was especially useful for expressing the relation of 
all subordinates to their superiors” (127). 
13 Although documents refer to Andrea as a canterino or public singer, and he might have recited 
this very narrative in a Florentine piazza, in many ways he distances himself from the oral tradition 
even as he depends on it. 

The narrative ends with Antonio di Giovanni da Bacherato, a Florentine citizen, claiming to 
have finished wniting the story in 1487. 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic | 


with her sword. She then becomes the hero of the African signoria where she 
finds herself and which is ruled by a female signore — the Queen, Frolisetta. 

This version of the Galaziella story then employs another common strategy 
used to contain the warrior woman: it kills her off. To be more specific, she dies 
in childbirth. Galaziella’s story does not end, however, because she manages to 
give birth to twins, who each continue the family’s trait of contained difference. 
Her son, Aquilante, after a series of adventures is abandoned in the woods, is 
raised by a female monkey, and becomes a wild man. He is hairy, gigantic, very 
strong, and carries a club. The other twin, a daughter, Formosa, is raised by the 
Amazon Queen Frolisetta, and grows up to be even a more skilled fighter than 
her biological mother. The narrative describes how both Formosa and her wild 
man brother are eventually reinscribed into the proper social order and learn to 
use their force to support Carlomagno. 

Despite her impressive military and rhetorical skills, Formosa, like her 
mother, winds up advocating the subordinate status of women in the 
heterosexual couple. The reference to beauty in her name as well as the continual 
references to her feminine grace suggest the eventual containment of the warrior 
woman’s gender-bending. As a young woman, Formosa learns that the Sultan of 
Babylonia has created “el giardino sanza femine” (f. 14v). No woman is allowed 
to enter it under the threat of death. Formosa is clearly outraged by this 
prohibition and takes it upon herself to open this exclusively masculine space to 
women. All this seems like a direct threat to the naturalized gender order until 
Formosa reaches the garden, enters in disguise as a knight, and is propositioned 
by a dirty old Saracen who, the text explicitly tells us, does not like women and 
believes Formosa is a man: 


Molti si maravigliavano della sua bellega. . . . Luchanfera, il quale era un saraino che 
pocho a grado avea il sesso feminile . . . l’andd a vedere e pavegli una bella chosa. . . 
. Allora, il vechio lusurioso credendo lui fusse maschio lo prese per la mano e 
menollo alla sua tavola. ... 


(f. 16r) 


This proposition makes clear that Formosa’s upcoming battle is not just to 
support “’onore delle donne” but also to defend the heterosexual couple, 
threatened by the Saracen sodomites who frequent the garden (f. 15v). 

Continuing in her mother’s footsteps, Formosa fights and defeats several 
Saracen and Christian knights, even giants. The only one she cannot defeat, 
Orlando, she wants to marry (f. 37v). Since Orlando is already taken, however, 
she pledges a vow of chastity and converts to Christianity (f. 159v).!° The story 


15 She pledges a vow of chastity first to the goddess Diana and then to the Virgin Mary. On f. 20v 
there is a drawing of Formosa participating in a joust. The only thing that distinguishes her from the 
other knights is a figure of Diana on her helmet. Once again, her sexual difference is marked at 
the same time that it is effaced by the symbol of chastity. 


y2 Juliann Vitullo 


ends when Formosa is knifed to death in bed by a Saracen knight whom she had 
defeated in battle and rejected in love. Just as Galaziella learns to use her military 
skill to defend her husband and the Christian cause, Formosa’s final scene 
illustrates, not her exceptional military skill, but the ultimate feminine virtue — 
chastity. The beautiful warrior woman becomes a metaphor for the entire 
Christian cause: she dies defending her body’s boundaries from the threat of 
pagan contamination. The author first marks the character’s difference, her 
femininity, with the name Formosa, and then contains the threat of such a 
physically attractive woman with a public role by neutralizing her sexuality. She 
not only pledges chastity but then is mutilated by the man with whom she had 
refused to have sex. 

Another famous warrior woman, Braidamonte, appears in the anonymous 
fourteenth and fifteenth-century epics of Rinaldo da Montalbano. Like Galaziella, 
she too is a bastarda since her father is the French Duke Amone who had an 
affair with the pagan queen Belialta and left her pregnant when he returned to 
France.!© While Formosa shares some of her exploits with her brother the wild 
man, Braidamonte’s partner in arms is another warrior woman, Dama Roenza. 
Allaire notes that this “early example of a female ‘buddy’ story” explicitly links 
the two women’s military careers and develops their relationship with a good 
deal of detail ("The Warrior Woman” n. pag.). The narrator introduces both 
Amazonian fighters in the same chapter; they each arrive with troops to reinforce 
the Saracen cause during a cease-fire in the midst of a bitter struggle with the 
Christians (f. 66r).!7 Although the women are portrayed as unusually strong and 
courageous, the narrator suggests that Dama Roenza is the most fearsome of the 
two. Unlike Braidamonte, Dama Roenza usually runs rather than rides a horse 
and carries a sickle instead of a sword. Despite her wild nature, Dama Roenza 
nurtures Braidamonte, who is only sixteen years old and on her first military 
champaign. She invites Braidamonte to stay in her tent, treats her with great 
respect, and enjoys her companion’s friendship. Furthermore, Dama Roenza 
loves Braidamonte for both her beauty and military skill; she organizes a 
tournament for her friend to show off her skills and feels great happiness when 
Braidamonte manages to defeat all her male opponents. 

Braidamonte’s identification with her female companion, however, does not 
last. Dama Roenza succeeds in defeating and capturing numerous Christian 
heroes, including Ulivieri and Braidamonte’s father Amone. Braidamonte soon 
shifts her loyalty, identifying with her Christian father rather than her Saracen 
“sister.” It is at this point in the story that the narrator distinguishes between 
the two warrior women. The root of Dama Roenza’s power becomes evident; the 
narrator connects her uncontrollable physical force with women’s most notorious 


16 There is one exception — a fifteenth-century cantare describes Braidamonte as a legitimate 
member of the family (Tomalin 56). 
I am referring to the manuscript’s pagination. 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 53 


vice — lust. Dama Roenza expresses her desire by inviting the Christian knight 
Ulivieri to sleep with her. He refuses saying that he could only sleep with a 
Christian woman and would first need to marry her. The bitter Dama Roenza 
then pledges to kill Ulivieri for having refused her advances. Braidamonte, on the 
other hand, decides to free the Christian prisoners, including her father, an 
objective which pits her against her brother Rinaldo. Unaware of her identity, 
Rinaldo defeats his sister and removes her helmet to kill her. The beauty of this 
opponent confuses him: 


... Rinaldo . . . si maraviglid che tanta forza fusse in una damigiella et quasi non 
sapea s’ell’era femmina o maschio. 
(f. 70v) 


Braidamonte convinces Rinaldo not to kill her by explaining that she is his 
sister and that she intends to free their father and the other Christian prisoners. 
Her image is softened even further when one of the Christian prisoners, Girardo, 
tells the father that he hopes to marry Braidamonte when she converts to 
Christianity. 

As Braidamonte evolves into a feminine character, Dama Roenza’s identity 
transforms into that of a monster. When she discovers Braidamonte’s betrayal, 
she seems “‘indimoniata” and calls her former companion a “puttana” (ff. 72r- 
72v). Once again, she expresses her evil nature by trying to seduce Orlando. She 
asks him to father her children, saying that their offspring would be powerful 
enough to take over the world. He responds to her advances by claiming his 
virginity and explains that he is already promised to the most beautiful woman 
in the world. The narrator then tells us that it is the knight’s innocence that 
upsets the worldly woman warrior: 


Quand’ ella gli udi dire ch’era vergine, tutta si turbbd e andogli addosso, gridando: 
“Ai Machometto, or chome sofferi che um tale huomo.. . é@ nimicho 
dell’ umana natura?” 

(f. 73v) 


In the end, Rinaldo saves the desperate Christian forces from the monstrous 
Dama Roenza by tricking her. He succeeds in lopping off her right leg only 
because he orchestrates a surprise attack after pretending to have died (ff. 77r- 
77v). Although such a tactic does not seem chivalrous enough for a famous 
Christian knight, her nearly satanic character justifies his conduct. In fact, a long 
tradition legitimized less than honorable strategies when male heroes needed to 
conquer unruly Amazons (Kleinbaum 60). In the meantime, Girardo, who 
happens to be Braidamonte’s uncle, receives a papal disposition to marry his 
own niece, and the other warrior woman takes on the domestic role of wife and 
mother (f. 77v). The confusion over gender, which had frightened Rinaldo when 


54 Juliann Vitullo 


he first saw his sister, has been resolved. Braidamonte has allowed her identity as 
a daughter and a wife to take precedent over her role as warrior woman. While the 
narrator asserts Braidamonte’s ultimate femininity (and Christianity), Dama 
Roenza’s gender-bending, her ability to express sexuality and physical force in 
public, earns her the status of a monster who needs to be destroyed at any cost. 
Like most female “buddy” stories, this one has a tragic end. 

Despite such strategies to contain the threat to traditional gender roles 
created by the woman warrior, why do these characters, along with their brothers 
the wild men, occur with such great frequency in fourteenth and fifteenth-century 
epics? One could interpret these characters as a reflection of the growing 
independence of women in the early Renaissance, particularly in Florence.!8 Yet, 
recent studies by historians such as Bellomo, Brown, and Klapisch-Zuber 
suggest just the opposite.!? In many ways, women’s legal and economic status 
deteriorated rather than progressed during this period. 

Instead of interpreting the warrior women, all of whom are Saracens, as a 
reflection of the status of women in Florence, it might be more fruitful to 
examine these texts from the perspective of recent theorists in gender studies 
such as Judith Butler. According to Butler, gender is a type of an achievement, a 
performance, which must be maintained. If not, we, like Formosa and Galaziella, 
often pay a price (Butler 273). Since gender is a cultural construction and not a 
biological fact, it is always being challenged and refigured to maintain the 
dichotomy of masculinity and femininity. If this is the case, then what challenge 
to traditional gender roles might have pushed the authors of the medieval Italian 
epic to adopt and develop the figure of the warrior woman? 

These texts describe ideal masculinity as embodied in an elite class of 
knights of noble birth. Yet during the late Middle Ages and early Renaissance, 
the institution of chivalry in Florence undergoes two important changes. In the 
twelfth and thirteenth centuries, communes had used the title of knight, miles, to 
indicate a man’s noble status and the privileges and responsibilities associated 
with such social rank (Salvemini 116). During the second half of the thirteenth 
century and the fourteenth century, however, the title of knight was no longer 
synonymous with the status of a noble. Communes, in particular Florence, 
began to dub non-noble men knights, especially men from the new mercantile 
and administrative classes (Salvemini 119). Towards the end of the fourteenth 
century and during the rise of the Medici family in the fifteenth century, the 
commune of Florence attempted to revive the traditional notion of chivalry as an 
institution for nobility by reserving the title for the sons of the most prestigious 
Florentine families (Salvemini 125). But as the historian Gaetano Salvemini 


18 “Where the role of [the warrior woman] is treated seriously woman is correspondingly 
respected and active” (Tomalin 10). 

For instance, Brown concludes that the number of working women in Tuscany dropped in the 
last half of the fourteenth century and that very few women entered the work force for the next 
two centuries (209). 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 55 


notes, such a revival was impossible despite the ideological backlash against the 
advance of certain social groups (126). Although the commune had always 
expected knights to cover the expenses of maintaining a horse for combat, they 
did not necessarily need to ride it into battle, but could instead pay someone to 
fight for them. Throughout the thirteenth century, most knights did continue to 
ride their own horse into battle to defend the city. Only in the fourteenth century 
did that tradition change, as knights involved in mercantile and administrative 
occupations began to pay others to take their place in military conflicts (Cardini 
27). By the fifteenth century, the jurists and other communal writers replaced the 
term miles with equites or equitatores because the majority of men fighting on 
horseback were simply mercenaries who did not hold the rank of knight 
(Salvemini 126). 

This substitution of men of lower socio-economic status for titled patricians 
in the art of warfare threatened the elite masculine ideal that the knight 
represented. In a similar fashion, the gender distinction based upon the notion 
that the man is stronger and must protect the woman might have also been 
threatened when the patrician class was no longer defined by their ability to fight 
but by their ability to read, write, and crunch numbers. The fourteenth-century 
writer of short stories, Franco Sacchetti, describes the anxieties produced by 
these changes within the institution of chivalry and its masculine ideal; Sacchetti 
satirizes members of the non-noble mercantile and administrative classes who 
claim the title of knight even though they express their prowess with a pen 
rather than a sword: 


Ecco bello esercizio cavalleresco! . . . che li notai si fanno cavalieri, e pit su; e °1 
pennaiuolo si converte in aurea coltellesca. 
(491) 


Sacchetti’s satire valorizes notions of masculinity and nobility threatened by 
social changes; for similar reasons, it was common for young men of the urban 
patrician class to demonstrate their fighting skills in jousts held in Florentine 
piazzas. At times, readings of epics accompanied these chivalric games.”° 
Whether included in this spectacle or not, the epic in fourteenth and fifteenth- 
century Florence also affirmed that the leaders of the new urban aristocracy truly 
were superior to workers and women — even if they no longer defended them 
with the sword. 

Although authors of the early Italian epic used various means to contain the 
threat posed by the representation of Easterners, manual laborers, and women as 
knights, such strategies were not completely successful. At least one mercenary 
who worked for the Medici family, Giovanni Mazzuoli known as “lo Stradino,” 
was an avid collector of Carolingian epics (Masaro n. pag.). While Stradino’s 


20 Solterer notes that the inclusion of women in tournament literature “emerges as one factor 
distinguishing the earlier, brutal combats from the later, more ‘entertaining’ spectacles” (528). 


56 Juliann Vitullo 


contemporaries described him as if he were a wild man — ugly, ignorant, and 
strange — and the humanists poked fun at his collection of “popular” texts 
written in vernacular, his armadiaccio, the epics he owned glorified the military 
service for which the elite of Florence depended on him (Maracchi Biagiarelli 
51). 

Women writers also felt empowered by the literary depictions of the virago. 
One of the epics even explicitly encourages such identification. In the Storia di 
Rinaldino da Montalbano, yet another Saracen warrior woman, Queen Laura, 
decides to leave immediately to aid her Christian friend, Rinaldino, on the battle 
field after she remembers having read about Penthesilea and how the Amazon 
Queen arrived too late to save Hector (260).2! Learned women of the fifteenth 
and sixteenth centuries, such as Laura Ceretra and Moderata Fonte, often viewed 
themselves as viragoes “of the mind” (Labalme 5). Like Penthesilea, Galaziella, 
Formosa, or Braidamonte, they demonstrated virtuz in a public forum, defying the 
strictly domestic role “of chastity and motherhood” prescribed for women by 
male contemporaries (Kelly 38). 

In order to gain a voice, however, many of the women writers adopted the 
same strategies of containment that the male epic writers had used to limit the 
threat posed by the warrior woman. Like Formosa, some female writers sought 
to embody the important “feminine” virtue of chastity to counteract their 
threatening “masculine” voice (Schiesari 70-71).2% Still others viewed 
themselves as having transcended their own “inferior sex” — like Penthesilea, 
who overcame her “natural” moral weakness (Schiesari 81). Women writers 
might have been able to view the Amazonian warrior as a model who had earned 
a public role by imitating the actions of aristocratic men; but in doing so, they 
often needed to deny their own sexuality and their relationships with other 
women. 


Arizona State University 


Works Cited 


Aliscans. Ed. Claude Régnier. Paris: Champion, 1990. 

Allaire, Gloria. “Portrayal of Muslims in Andrea da Barberino’s Guerrino il 
Meschino.” Medieval Christian Perceptions of Islam. Ed. John Tolan. New 
York: Garland Press (forthcoming 1994). 

. “The Warrior Woman in Late Medieval Prose Epics.” /talian Culture 11 


21 | am indebted to Allaire for this reference. 

Schiesari notes that although chastity “would bring with it a certain freedom, nevertheless that 
choice is limited since the very concept . . . is inscribed within the male-centered discourse of virti 
as an ideal of masculinity that women could only achieve by denying their difference as women” 
(71). 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 57 


(forthcoming). 

Bellomo, Manlio. Ricerche sui rapporti patrimoniali tra coniugi: contributo alla 
storia della famglia medievale. Milano: Giuffré, 1961. 

Benson, Pamela Joseph. “Boccaccio’s De mulieribus claris: An Ambiguous 
Beginning.” The Invention of the Renaissance Woman: The Challenge of 
Female Independence in the Literature and Thought of Italy and England. 
University Park: The Pennsylvania State UP, 1992. 9-31. 

Bernheimer, Richard. Wild Men in the Middle Ages. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1952. 

Biblioteca Medicea Laurenziana. Palat. 101. Vol. 2. 

Biblioteca Riccardiana. 1904. 

Boccaccio, Giovanni. De mulieribus claris. Opere in versi. La letteratura italiana: 
storia e testi. Vol. 9. Ed. Pier Giorgio Ricci. Milano: Ricciardi, 1965. 

Brown, Judith C. “A Woman’s Place Was in the Home: Women’s Work in 
Renaissance Tuscany.” Rewriting the Renaissance: The Discourses of Sexual 
Difference in Early Modern Europe. Ed. Margaret W. Ferguson, Maureen 
Quilligan, and Nancy J.Vickers. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1986. 206-26. 

Brucker, Gene. The Civic World of Early Renaissance Florence. Princeton: Prrinceton 
UP;1977: 

Butler, Judith. “Performative Acts and Gender Constitution.” Performing Feminisms: 
Feminist Critical Theory and Theatre. Ed. Sue-Ellen Case.Baltimore: The Johns 
Hopkins UP, 1990. 270-82. 

Cantari d’Aspramonte (inediti) (Magl. VII 682). Ed. Andrea Fassé. Bologna: 
Commissione per i testi di lingua, 1981. 

Cardini, Franco. “Nobilta e cavalleria nei centri urbani: problemi e interpretazioni.” 
Nobilta e ceti dirigenti in Toscana nei secoli XI-XIII: strutture e concetti. 
Firenze: Papafava, 1982. 13-28. 

Da Barberino, Andrea. L’ Aspramonte. Ed. Luigi Cavalli. Napoli: Fulvio Rossi, 1972. 

. I reali di Francia. Ed. Giuseppe Vandelli and Giovanni Gambarin. Bari: 
Laterza, 1947. 
. Le storie nerbonesi. Ed. 1. G. Isola. Bologna: Gaetano Romagnoli, 1877. 

Davis, Natalie Zemon. “Women on Top.” In Society and Culture in Early Modern 
France. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1975. 124-51. 

Delcorno Branca, Daniela. “Fortuna e trasformazioni del Buovo d’Antona.” Testi, 
cotesti e contesti del franco-italiano. Atti del primo simposio franco-italiano 
(Bad Homburg, 13-16 aprile 1987). Ed. Ginter Holtus, Henning Krauss, Peter 
Wunderli. Tiibingen: Max Niemeyer Verlag, 1989. 285-304. 

Franceschetti, Antonio. “On the Saracens in Early Italian Chivalric Literature.” 
Romance Epic: Essays on a Medieval Literary Genre. Ed. Hans-Erich Keller. 
Kalamazoo: Medieval Institute Publications, 1987. 203-11. 

Friedman, John Block. The Monstrous Races in Medieval Art and Thought. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1981. 

Friscia, Alberto. “Le Personnage de Rainourt au Tinel dans la Chanson d’Aliscans.” 
Annales de I’ Université de Grenoble 21 (1909): 43-98. 

La “Geste Francor” di Venezia: edizione integrale del codice XIII del fondo francese 
della Marciana. Ed. Aldo Rossellini. Brescia: La Scuola, 1986. 

Gorra, Egidio. Testi inediti di storia trojana preceduti da uno studio sulla leggenda 
trojana in Italia. Torino: Ermanno Loescher, 1887. 


58 Juliann Vitullo 


Husband, Timothy. The Wild Man: Medieval Myth and Symbol. New York: The 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1980. 

James, Montague Rhodes. Marvels of the East: A Full Reproduction of the Three 
Known Copies. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1929. 

Jordan, Constance. “Boccaccio’s In-Famous Women.” Ambiguous Realities: Women 
in the Middle Ages and Renaissance. Ed. Carole Levin and Jeanie Watson. 
Detroit: Wayne State UP, 1987. 25-47. 

Kelly (-Gadol), Joan. “Did Women Have a Renaissance?” Women, History, and 
Theory: The Essays of Joan Kelley. Ed. Catharine R. Stimpson. Chicago: U of 
Chicago P, 1984. 19-50. 

Klapisch-Zuber, Christiane. Women, Family, and Ritual in Renaissance Italy. Trans. 
Lydia G. Cochrane. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1985. 

Kleinbaum Wettan, Abbey. The War against the Amazons. New York: McGraw Hill, 
1983. 

Krauss, Henning. Epica feudale e pubblico borghese: per la storia poetica di 
Carlomagno in Italia. Ed. and trans. Andrea Fass0. Padova: Liviana, 1980. 

. “Ritter und Biirger — Feudalheer and Volksheer: Zum Problem der feigen 
Lombarden in der altfranzésischen und frankoitalienischen Epik.” Zeitschrift fir 
Romanische Philologie 87 (1971): 209-22. 

Labalme, Patricia. “Introduction.” Beyond Their Sex: Learned Women of the European 
Past. New York: New York UP, 1980. 1-8. 

Le Goff, Jacques. “L’ Apogée de la France urbaine médiévale.” La Ville medievale. Ed. 
Jacques Le Goff. Paris: Seuil, 1980. 189-405. Vol. 2 of Histoire de la France 
urbaine. Ed. Georges Duby. 5 vols. 1980-85. 

Maracchi Biagiarelli, Berta. “L’Armadiaccio di Padre Stradino.” La Bibliofilia 84 
(1982): 51-57. 

Masaro, Carla. “Un episodio della cultura libraria volgare nella Firenze medicea: la 
biblioteca dello Stradino (1480 ca.- 1549).” Alfabetismo e cultura scritta 
(forthcoming). 

Meck, Mary Elizabeth, ed. and trans. Historia Destructionis Troiae. By Guido delle 
Colonne. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1974. 

Newth, Michael A., ed. and trans. The Song of Aliscans. New York: Garland, 1992. 

La Prise de Pampelune. Ed. Adolf Mussafia. Viena: Druck and Verlag von Gerold’s 
John, 1864. 

Rajna, Pio. Le fonti dell’Orlando furioso. 1900. Firenze: Sansoni, 1975. 

Sachetti, Franco. “Novella CLIII.” Opere. Ed. Aldo Borlenghi. Milano: Rizzoli, 
1957. 491-94. 

Sainte-Maure, Benoit de. Le Roman de Troie. Ed. Léopold Constans. Vol. IV. 1908. 
New York: Johnson Reprint Corp., 1968. 6 vols. 

Salvemini, Gaetano. La dignita cavalleresca nel comune di Firenze e altri scritti. Ed. 
Emesto Sestan. 1896. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1972. 

Schiesari, Juliana. “For a Genealogy of Gender Morals in Renaissance Women.” 
Annali d'Italianistica 7 (1989): 66-87. 

Solterer, Helen. “Figures of Female Militancy in Medieval France.” Signs 16,3 
(1991): 522-49. 

Stallybrass, Peter and Allon White. The Politics and Poetics of Transgression. 
London: Methuen, 1986. 


Wild Men and Warrior Women in the Early Italian Epic 59 


Storia di Rinaldino da Montalbano: romanzo cavalleresco in prosa. Ed. Carlo 
Minutoli. Bologna: Gaetano Romagnoli, 1865. 

Tomalin, Margaret. The Fortunes of the Warrior Heroine in Italian Literature: An 
Index of Emancipation. Ravenna: Longo, 1982. 

White, David Gordon. Myths of the Dog-Man. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1991. 

White, Hayden. “The Noble Savage as Fetish.” Tropics of Discourse. Baltimore: 
Johns Hopkins UP, 1978. 183-96. 

Wittkower, Rudolph. “Marvels of the East: A Study in the History of Monsters.” 
Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes 5 (1942): 159-97. 


raed 4 or met res to ANH 


et ee er ee eer CIR ery 
| ; WAL tongs ve dl <aonet =a. ‘Megane? 
timate Gi) GNP. ovwilh ode WS Soret le i adiar= 5 5 








: “ | re a ee a abhi 
My Wire sR A Pete ee at evbeatven Sart eT aby 
remit Qocem cil Gayay = 4 satis: an ng ae = 2h iid v 
thi oe 7 el te, ant 
ir wa ae, aa ve oath ober ditt 
7 ee ro it tr eg Syne oY Os gaat 
“a 
’ 
re 7 : e. 7 = ay 
mee : : 
- - 
yy 
ss 
oe : 
: i 
+ 
- i 48 
a <— — ™ 
; ey +6 
i 
7 7 7 al . 
os - i 
W > 
£9 


Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


Alcina’s Revenge: 
Reassessing Irony and Allegory in the Orlando furioso 


To place an epic within its European context is not always to discuss such 
matters as its influence on or borrowings from other European epics. With this 
in mind, I would like to begin my discussion of Ariosto’s Orlando furioso with 
a brief consideration of what it might mean to talk about Virgil’s Aeneid ina 
European context. In his The Allegorical Epic, Michael Murrin powerfully 
summarizes the Aeneid as having established “the great model for creative 
allegory in the West” (23). In other words, the Aeneid becomes fully “European” 
(or “Western”) at the site of allegory: only through allegory (as practiced by its 
medieval and Renaissance commentators) was the place of the Aeneid insured 
within Europe’s literary history. 

One way to talk about an epic within its European context, then, is to 
assess its relationship with allegory — specifically, epic’s success in generating 
a sustained and coherent allegory of its plot. In an era that valued Aristotelian 
unity and decorum, Cinquecento commentary on the Orlando furioso continually 
felt the pressure to align Ariosto’s sprawling work with the great classics of 
European antiquity like Virgil’s Aeneid. One authoritative means of assuring the 
Furioso’s enduring worth was to append allegorizations to it in a calculated 
continuation of the medieval tradition of allegorizing the pagan classics and 
thereby validating them as the foundation for what was beginning to take shape 
as a “European literary tradition.” Such was, for example, Landino’s intention 
for Virgil when he allegorized the Aeneid in 1480 (continuing the tradition of 
such allegorizers as Servius and Bernard Silvestris). No one knew better than 
Ariosto’s defenders that allegorical commentary was a mark of literary prestige, 
particularly for a vernacular work. Thus, in the 1540’s Lodovico Dolce and other 
Italian commentators on the Furioso began the practice of introducing Ariosto’s 
cantos with summary allegorie that made (and, in so many instances, forced) 
meticulous distinctions between vice and virtue in the narrative. ! 

The effort to “proclaim” the Orlando furioso as not just a classic, but a 
properly “European” classic centered on allegory. But Ariosto’s epic posed a 
problem because it did not readily yield to allegory’s impulses to move to higher 
meanings. Its prefatory allegorie notwithstanding, virtually every reader of the 


1 For an extensive treatment of early criticism of the Furioso, see Weinberg; more recently, see 
Javitch’s excellent study, Proclaiming a Classic. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


62 Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


Furioso knows that Ariosto’s poem was judged to be full of obstacles hostile to 
any overarching project to render it “Virgilian.” As reported by one of Ariosto’s 
more favorable commentators, Simone Fornari (whose two-volume Spositione 
sopra l’ Orlando furioso, 1549, was the first extensive commentary on the poem), 
critics complained of such felicities as the poem’s overabundance of meraviglie 
and fantastic episodes, the obtrusive presence of Ariosto as narrator and his 
persistence in presenting himself in the first person, the narrator’s many 
annoying interruptions of his own narrative and their defiance of narrative 
decorum, etc.? Hence we encounter such oddities as Harington’s “de-ironizing” of 
the authority of Bishop Turpin (i.e., his decision to take Turpin seriously), and 
even complaints concerning Ariosto’s misleading title for his long poem — 
complaints that offered the title of Ruggiero as a more appropriate emphasis for 
the narrative’s dynastic frame. In short, the real story of the Orlando furioso may 
be not so much the actual narrative itself as the many critical reactions against 
Ariosto’s perceived excesses and the felt need of even his supporters to make the 
poem properly “allegorical” (i.e., properly “European”). 

Let us turn for the moment to, in particular, the controversy generated by 
Ariosto’s narrative interruptions. In a series of important and well-perceived 
articles that appeared in the eighties, Daniel Javitch has pointed out that the 
inimitable maniera ariostesca possesses what could be described as its own kind 
of libidinal economy, whereby Ariosto’s persistently frivolous narrative 
interruptions leave the reader, in Javitch’s words, “unrequited but without the 
prospect of gratification” (“‘Cantus Interruptus’” 71).? For Javitch, the 
Furioso’s own characteristic “pleasures of the text” are structured on thwarted 
expectations, or on quasi-sexual denials of (narrative) pleasure. In such a scheme, 
the neo-Aristotelianism of the Cinquecento and its emphasis on narrative unity 
may be viewed as a denial of the libidinal economy of the Furioso’s interrupted 
narrative, judging Ariostan jouissance not as an invitation to textual pleasure, 
but merely as a series of structural defects. 

What I wish to suggest here is that much of the Furioso’s allegorical 
commentary exists as a kind of disavowal (a repression? a forgetting?) of 
Ariosto’s inherent ingegno, his wit — or, to phrase it more rhetorically, his 
irony. In other words, to talk more fully about the Furioso within its “European 
context,” we may have to move beyond allegory to confront irony as the 
characteristic mode of Ariosto’s tropological discourse. And such a confrontation 
necessarily entails an investigation of the rhetorical history of irony within its 
“European context.” 


2 In his Arte poetica (1563), for example, Mintumo levels the Cinquecento literary critics’ most 
characteristic charge against Ariosto’s long epic, complaining that the Furioso is “una gran massa 
di persone, e di cose” (qtd. Weinberg 2: 972). 

See also his essays, “The Orlando furioso and Ovid’s Revision of the Aeneid” and “Narrative 
Discontinuity in the Orlando furioso and its Sixteenth Century Cnitics.” 


Alcina’s Revenge: Reassessing Irony and Allegory in the Furioso 63 


In order to do so, we might begin not in antiquity but in the twentieth 
century with Paul de Man as perhaps the most prominent recent theorizer of 
irony and its place within the context of European literary history. Throughout 
the history of rhetoric, claims de Man, one can trace an “implicit and rather 
enigmatic link” between allegory and irony. For de Man (208-09), the trope of 
irony can readily be placed within a “European context,” pointing, in Germany 
alone, to the works of Johann Georg Hamann, Friedrich Schlegel, Friedrich 
Solger, and E. T. A. Hoffmann, all of whom worried the connection between 
allegory and irony. In antiquity, it was the early rhetorician Quintilian who, in 
his /nstitutio, first forged a link between ironia and allegoria as both forms of 
“other-speaking,” wherein one thing is said, but something else is meant. Even 
so, irony proved to be a troublesome figure for Quintilian, who, despite his 
judgment that allegory was considered to be a more prestigious kind of 
“otherspeak” than irony, worried the problem of whether irony is a species of 
allegory or something very different. Thus in his Allegory and Violence, Gordon 
Teskey argues, “It was recognized fairly early in European literary history that 
any effort to stabilize a theory of allegory with irony inside it will be 
undermined by irony’s corrosively oppositional power. ...” In other words, 
claims Teskey, irony “devours its host from within.” 

But the practice of secular allegory for epic may never have come to discover 
the “truth” about irony that rhetorical theory discovered early on. De Man (210) 
identifies Quintilian as the first to describe irony as a trope that could dominate 
long narratives — and herein lies the significance of Quintilian’s uncertainty 
about the relationship of allegory to irony for a study of the Orlando furioso. 
The long narrative of Ariosto’s epic is a sustained illustration of Teskey’s claim 
that irony always “devours its host from within,” negating the impulses of 
allegory to rise to higher abstractions. The move by Cinquecento commentators 
to allegorize the Furioso constituted a refusal to negotiate the peculiar processes 
by which Ariosto’s ironic tone seeks to empty itself of all content — a sustained 
avoidance of the irony that is the narrative space of the poem. When Dolce, 
Minturno, Harington, et al., isolate what they judge to be most problematic 
about the Furioso (i.e., Ariosto’s narrative interruptions, his breezy first-person 
intrusions into the narrative, his “red herring” title), what they are disavowing is, 
in essence, irony as the Furioso’s dominant rhetorical trope. The sheer length of 
Ariosto’s poem may be the most convincing symptom of Ariostan irony itself 
— irony as pervasive, limitless, and uncontainable within the bounds of 
allegory. Irony, to echo Teskey, always “devours its host from within.” 

The urge of Renaissance allegorizers to curb the excesses of Ariostan irony 


ny Teskey’s forthcoming book constitutes an impressively learned genealogy of allegory from 
paganism to neo-classicism, and the scope of my paper is greatly indebted to his chapter, “Irony, 
Allegory, and Metaphysical Decay,” in particular. The chapter is due to appear in the May issue 
of PMLA. I regret that it appeared too late for me to make page references to it. 


64 Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


— the urge to check irony’s impulse to take on a referential life of its own -- is, 
for that matter, mirrored in much contemporary commentary on the Furioso. In 
the mid-sixties, Robert Durling devoted an entire chapter to Ariosto’s ironic 
poet-narrator, but even he has perhaps too neatly summarized Ariosto’s 
disinvoltura as a “mixture of moral earnestness and an unwillingness to seem too 
preacherly” (132) — a summary that falls short of a full encounter with the 
rhetorical enigmas of irony. And as well perceived as Javitch’s analysis of 
Ariosto’s narrative impulse of cantus interruptus is, he too recapitulates the urge 
to “allegorize” the Furioso, interpreting the poet’s narrative interruptions not so 
much as ironic “play,” but as “one of the poem’s didactic aims, [i.e.] . . . to 
make us aware that in a world without constancy, . . . we must be elastic 
enough to bear the unpredictable frustration of our designs and aspirations” 
(“Cantus Interruptus’” 79). A textual “world without constancy” is the 
discursive space of irony — and from Fornari to Javitch, it is Ariostan irony, I 
would claim, where critics struggle the most. Throughout the reception history 
of the Furioso (and, I say this with full appreciation that no one has done a more 
productive analysis of this reception history than Javitch himself), we 
continually see evidence of a kind of anxiety of interpretation — an anxiety that 
induces the critic to foreclose on the Furioso’s irony prematurely in order to find 
its didactic bedrock, or to sublimate the irony and abstract it into allegorical 
commentary. Either way, it would seem that it is now time to pose the simple 
question: how do we interpret Ariosto — or, phrased more broadly, how do we 
interpret irony itself? If, as Teskey has argued, “irony has an entirely negative 
relationship with interpretation,” then I would suggest it is time for a 
reassessment of Ariostan irony’s elusive relationship with allegory — and, 
indeed, with the act of interpretation itself. Such an investigation will, I hope, 
provide a new framework for assessing the Orlando furioso’s place within a 
European context 

As Quintilian might have predicted, the longer an ironic narrative extends, 
the more unreliable the ironic narrator becomes — hence the anxiety with which 
Cinquecento allegorizers viewed Ariosto’s obtrusive narrator. De Man observes, 
“The ironic language splits the subject into an empirical self that exists in a 
state of inauthenticity and a self that exists only in the form of a language that 
asserts the knowledge of this inauthenticity” (214). We may say that the Furioso 
exists, then, only in the narrative space of Ariosto’s awareness of the 
inauthenticity of his own ironic language. For anyone interested in the place of 
the Furioso within a “European context,” one of the more uncanny aspects of de 
Man’s essay on irony might be the extent to which its descriptions of the tropic 
operations of irony seemingly describe much of the action of the Furioso itself. 
When, for example, de Man proclaims that irony “possesses an inherent tendency 
to gain momentum and not to stop until it has run its full course” (215), we are 
reminded of Orlando’s seizure of Angelica’s horse and the quasi-sexual fury with 
which he “rides” the horse for days until it drops from exhaustion (29.71). And 


Alcina’s Revenge: Reassessing Irony and Allegory inthe Furioso 65 


when de Man argues that irony is “unrelieved vertige . . . a reflection on madness 
from the inside of madness itself” (214, 215), are we not at the very threshold of 
Ariosto’s presentation of the entropic destructiveness of Orlando’s madness — a 
madness that, much more than Ruggiero’s search for his dynastic spouse 
Bradamante, is the structuring metaphor of the poem itself? When Ariosto named 
his poem Orlando and not, say, Ruggiero, the choice of title became the poet’s 
tacit acknowledgement that irony is a type of madness that envelops everything 
in its (non)referential grasp. And it is at this point that we can begin to 
appreciate the extent to which Orlando’s senno, his lost “wits” that become 
allegorized on the moon as the site of psychic wholeness and the object of 
Astolfo’s quest, cannot really be “allegorized” at all, but is the site of the 
madness that is irony itself. In Ariosto’s ironic epistemology, when Orlando, in 
one of the more memorable statements of ego de-formation in the literary history 
of epic, declares: “Non son, non sono io quel che paio in viso” (23.128),° the 
paladin points to the very essence of irony as the trope of the divided self. He 
becomes the very epitome of the non-dialectical, ironic “self” that can proclaim 
itself only through the knowledge of its own inauthenticity. In short, allegory 
can only seek to conceal what an ironic consciousness already “knows” — and 
what irony “knows” is that it is uninterpretable because irony never is what it is, 
but rather is (in its restless disruptions of the narrative) always somewhere else. 
Earlier I posed the (rhetorical) question of how we should interpret irony. At 
this point, I would like to narrow the focus of this question to the issue of 
irony’s challenge for a feminist critique. In other words, what is the place of 
Ariostan irony in feminist interpretations of the Furioso? Certainly in recent 
years feminist scholars have found themselves increasingly drawn to the Furioso 
because so much of the poem is an extended discourse about women, 
representations of female desire, debates on women’s social status, etc. The 
Furioso strikes the reader — the female reader, at least — as an often much more 
inviting text for feminist analysis than, say, its successor epic Tasso’s 
Gerusalemme liberata not simply because there is a richer variety of female 
characters (Homeric, Virgilian, Ovidian, Boccaccian) but also because the poet 
seems committed to a sustained discourse about women, particularly in the form 
of the so-called querelle des femmes and their extended meditations on the nature 
of womanhood. In the case of the querelle des femmes, however, women are 
drawn to the Furioso at their own risk. As readers of the Furioso are well aware, 
from Rinaldo to Rodomonte any number of Ariosto’s characters (not to mention 
Ariosto himself) are plunged into detailed debates about the moral worth of 
women, oscillating between, on the one hand, unbounded, almost grotesquely 
hyperbolic praise and, on the other, misogynistic rantings against female 
treachery and duplicity, rantings that, more often than not, result in a homoerotic 
bonding among many of Ariosto’s male characters — not to mention a 


5 All citations of the Orlando furioso are taken from Caretti’s edition. 


66 Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


homoerotic bonding between the male characters and their sympathetic (if ironic) 
narrator, Ariosto himself. 

In her excellent essay on the querelle des femmes, Deanna Shemek has 
skilfully traced Ariosto’s contradictory deployment of this topos throughout the 
Furioso. What I would like to suggest further here is the extent to which 
Ariosto’s unpredictable, contradictory oscillations between the topos of praise for 
women and the topos of women’s inconstancy constitute the antithetical poles of 
irony itself. This is a simple enough observation, perhaps —- but what I am 
suggesting is the crisis in interpretation that the querelle present. The obtrusive 
presence of the Ariostan narrator and his alternative praise and blame of women 
are a fitting enactment of the process by which irony always and inevitably takes 
on a life of its own. Let us focus on the representative moment when the 
narrator, rushing to the defense of women, accuses Rodomonte (who, following 
his loss of Doralice, is railing against “feminile ingegno”) of having lost his 
mind. As the poet claims, for every one or two treacherous women, there must 
be a hundred good ones: “e certo da ragion si dipartiva; / che per una o per due 
che trovi ree, / che cento buone sien creder si dee” (27.122). At this moment we 
can in no way view Ariosto’s seeming “defense” of woman as an “interpretable” 
moment in the text — and this is the case even if we go to the opposite extreme 
and interpret his “defense” as an ironic “attack.” In other words, the reader (and, 
in particular, the feminist reader) is left with an anxiety of interpretation, for 
Ariosto is both affirming and negating the “truth” that virtuous women do exist. 
In short, the discourse of the querelle des femmes eludes interpretation because 
irony is (rhetorically) unlocatable. First here, now there — like the ghost of 
Hamlet’s father — Ariostan irony also insures that so often “woman” herself is 
unlocatable in the Furioso, disappearing into the non-referential abyss that is 
irony. All of which is to say that irony (and, seemingly, Ariostan irony in 
particular) unravels the feminist project not because irony is, in some sense, 
inherently “misogynistic,” but because it is so frequently not misogynistic. Or, 
put another way, irony adduces the anxiety — without the verification — that 
praise of women may be the most misogynistic gesture of all. 

Let us return to Shemek’s interpretation of the querelle. She rightly 
interprets the contradictions of the querelle debates as Ariosto’s complication of 
gender oppositions for the purposes of establishing “‘a reality more complex than 
reductive extremes,” such that, ultimately, the poet (who, as we know, himself 
claims to be frustrated in love) is “raising the issue of personal desire in all 
representation” (17). I would suggest that Shemek’s argument that Ariosto is 
“raising the issue of personal desire in all representation” is both well perceived 
and a possible missing of the mark. Not unlike Javitch’s interpretation of 
Ariosto’s frequent interruptions of his narrative as “one of the poem’s didactic 
aims,” Shemek’s analysis of the querelle as Ariosto’s calculated problematizing 
of “the issue of personal desire in all representation” may be itself a kind of 
allegorical gloss that forecloses on the thorny problem of irony’s 


Alcina’ s Revenge: Reassessing Irony and Allegory inthe Furioso 67 


uninterpretability. And, once again, we can see the extent to which the Ariostan 
commentator is tempted by a polemical “will to allegorize” as a kind of 
disavowal of the need to negotiate irony itself. The move I wish to make here is 
much humbler and less ambitious than the “will to allegorize.” I simply wish 
to argue that the querelle des femmes is perhaps more productively viewed not as 
a rhetorical topos (i.e., that of “praise” and “blame’”) requiring an interpretive 
gloss, but as the discursive space of an irony flaunting its own non- 
referentiality. The querelle des femmes is structured by an ironic self that, to 
echo de Man, exists only in the form of a language that proclaims its own 
inauthenticity. The querelle des femmes cannot be interpreted because irony, as a 
non-referential language, cannot be “harnessed” for hermeneutic purposes. And 
despite the Furioso’s surface charm and appeal and open invitations to feminist 
readings, it may be one of the most treacherous texts of all for any feminist 
hermeneutic: the Furioso’s irony is so thoroughly disintegrative that the concept 
of “womanhood” itself cannot survive its corrosive reach. 

But neither, as I wish to consider now, can the Furioso’s irony be readily 
appropriated for a masculine hermeneutic — and this is no more aptly illustrated 
than in the much-discussed and certainly the most over-interpreted episode in the 
entire Furioso, the episode of Alcina and Logistilla. This particular episode has 
undergone a four-hundred-year history of over-interpretation; and, as I will argue, 
these over-interpretations tend to follow the same pattern, i.e., the attempt to 
force an Alcinian irony into a process of allegorical signification. For the 
remainder of this essay, I will not attempt another interpretation of this episode, 
but rather I propose to consider the extent to which the Alcina episode, we may 
say, is constituted within the enigmatic intersection of allegory and irony and the 
collision of their respective “European contexts.” 

As Albert Ascoli has argued at length, the Alcina-Logistilla episode is a 
virtual emblem of epic in a “European context”: “The episode freely mixes 
elements of Dante’s Christian askesis, Hercules’ ethical-humanist itinerary, and 
Ulysses’ ‘neo-Platonic’ journey. . . . [The episode is] thoroughly steeped in the 
great traditions of literary education (Christian, humanist, neo-Platonic)” 
(Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony 169; 181). But it is an episode not easily interpreted 
within the larger context of the Furioso itself. As Ascoli himself has so 
perceptively observed, “the island of Alcina seems to have simultaneously a 
radically exemplary and a highly alienated position” with respect to the rest of 
the Furioso (123). Certainly, the episode is sufficiently “exemplary” for 
Giamatti to have devoted an entire chapter to it (137-64), but its “highly 
alienated” quality may be due to its status as an allegory — the episode as 
“highly alienated” because there are so few manifestly allegorical moments in 
the otherwise ironic Furioso. And because Logistilla’s instruction of Ruggiero is 
perhaps Ariosto’s most conspicuous use of allegory, it is almost as if Ariosto is 
offering us an extended meditation on, to echo Teskey, irony’s entirely negative 
relationship with interpretation. Given that theories of allegory so often chose to 


68 Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


bracket the question of irony, it is significant that Ariosto deliberately constructs 
the Alcina-Logistilla episode as what we could refer to as the Furioso’s primal 
encounter between irony and allegory, a sustained testing of Quintilian’s claim 
that irony is little more than a species of allegory. If irony, as Teskey argues, 
does have “an entirely negative relationship with interpretation,” then I would 
argue that it is this same negative relationship that has had to be (and still is) 
repressed in order (to echo Javitch) to “proclaim” the Furioso a classic. Thus, 
such allegorizers as Fornari, Ruscelli, Toscanella, Valvassori, et al., focused a 
disproportionate, indeed a symptomatic attention on the “highly alienated” 
Alcina-Logistilla episode, so much so that Michael Murrin has argued that these 
allegorical commentaries on the Alcina-Logistilla episode alone contributed to 
the origin of secular allegory itself (54). But we must also consider the extent to 
which the “founding moment” of the origin of secular allegory is itself 
dependent on a peremptory suppression of the background “noise” of irony. 

On Alcina’s isle (where everything seems to be something else -- where 
whales are islands and plants are men), the irony manifests itself immediately 
with Ruggiero’s encounter with the imprisoned Astolfo in the myrtle and 
Ariosto’s extended parody of the bleeding branch, one of the previously more 
venerable topoi throughout the literary history of epic. With its echoes of 
similar episodes in Virgil, Ovid, Boccaccio, and Dante, the episode begins, then, 
within a self-consciously “European context”; but, scarcely possessing the 
psychic resonance of Virgil’s tragic Polydorus or of Dante’s eloquently mournful 
Pier delle Vigne, Ariosto’s absurdly talkative myrtle may be the reader’s surest 
indication that Ariosto intended Alcina’s isle as the parodic locus classicus for 
the Furioso’s irony.® As we have seen, irony always affirms and negates the 
truth of its own discourse — and, predictably, the more Astolfo narrates his tale 
of the snares of the fata Alcina, the more Ruggiero becomes seduced by the very 
warning that is intended to repel him. And again, we have a foreshadowing of the 
prospect that irony always threatens what an allegorical discourse seeks to 
confirm. 

As readers of the poem have frequently noted, throughout the episode the 
tone of Ariosto’s narrator alternates unpredictably between naiveté and worldly 
wisdom, creating treacherous going for any interpretation that seeks to “ground” 
itself in easy alternatives between vice and virtue. The poet’s tonal ambiguities 
notwithstanding, Cinquecento allegorizers of the Furioso forged rigorous 
distinctions between an Alcinian vice and a Logistillan virtue as the central 
moral opposition that structures the episode. In no uncertain terms, Fornari 
declared the Alcina-Logistilla episode to be the most important allegory in the 


6 For an excellent treatment of Ariosto’s ironic humor in this passage, see Kennedy. His essay is 
an extended appreciation of what Ascoli refers to as the “highly alienated” quality of the Alcina- 
Logistilla episode and an attempt to reconcile irony and allegory in the Furioso by arguing that 
Ariosto has achieved a kind of hybrid “ironic allegory.” 


Alcina’ s Revenge: Reassessing Irony and Allegory inthe Furioso 69 


Furioso, and Dolce interpreted Alcina allegorically as posing two moral states, 
i.e., Alcina as the assaulis of the appetites (gli assalti dell’ appetito) and 
Logistilla as the virtuous life (vita virtuosa).’ Fornari and Dolce thus established 
a long tradition within the reception history of the Furioso of interpreting the 
episode as an extended “rite of passage” for Ruggiero that is designed to instruct 
him in restraint and the avoidance of idle sensuality. 

Ascoli acknowledges the extent to which interpretations of this episode have 
split into two poles, the so-called “Alcinian” critics and the “Logistillan” 
critics. Whereas the “Logistillan” critics focus on Logistilla as an agent of 
education and moral reform, “Alcinian” critics choose to celebrate the romantic 
sensuality of Alcina’s isle (Ascoli 127).° Ascoli argues that Ariosto is actually 
playing the two readings off against each other, offering a kind of “collision” of 
the conflicting impulses of sensual poetry versus didactic allegory. But it is also 
worth nothing here that in the curious narrative rhythms of this surprisingly 
anti-climactic episode, the reader is never presented with any kind of clearly 
defined, decisive encounter between Alcinian vice and Logistillan virtue — 
which may be the most ironic outcome of the entire Furioso. If we view the 
episode simply as an agon between Circean sensuality and Logistillan restraint, 
then we run the risk of “repressing” the disintegrative power of irony. The real 
drama of the episode may not be the choice between an Alcinian vice and a 
Logistillan virtue, but rather the reader’s repression of the primal encounter 
between allegory and irony. 

The rather conspicuous absence of any kind of decisive defeat of Alcina in 
Ariosto’s narrative marks the presence of this primal encounter; and it invites a 
careful consideration of just exactly what is the fata Alcina’s vice that Logistilla 
must be the correction of. Through the aid of the magic ring that Melissa gives 
to Ruggiero, the Circean Alcina is revealed as physically loathsome: 


Pallido, crespo e macilente avea 
Alcina il viso, il crin raro e canuto: 
sua statura a sei palmi non giungea: 
ogni dente di bocca era caduto. 
Cita) 


Thus, like irony itself, Alcina proves not to be what she is, but rather is 
something else. But what is the precise nature of her vice? 

Before attempting to answer this, I would like to pose another question: Can 
allegory have a sexual politics? Or, more specifically, what is the precise 
relationship between a Logistillan allegory and Alcina’s physical loathsomeness 


7 For more on Fomari and Dolce as allegorizers of the Alcina-Logistilla episode, see Javitch 29, 
33: 

8 An example of a “Logistillan" critic would be De Blasi. The paradigmatic romantic “Alcinian” 
critic would be Momigliano. 


70 Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


that Ruggiero, with the aid of the magic ring, eventually unveils? The move 
from “vice” to “virtue” is structured on Ruggiero’s abandonment of Alcina and 
his journey to Logistilla; but the process of education (of a conspicuously 
“European” education) when he finally arrives there is itself brief, peremptory, 
fairly unrigorous (in actuality, involving little more than learning to control the 
hippogriff) — prompting a series of questions that get us to the heart of 
allegory’s arbitrariness and ineffectualness when it must confront irony. Despite 
the virtues of “right reason” or unity with the “Logos” or whatever else is 
presumably embodied in Logistilla’s name, how logical (as a deliberate pun on 
“Logistillan”) is the allegorical progression away from the ironic Alcina? 
Allegory as a form of “other-speaking” is traditionally based on a process of 
predication: the literal figure of allegory (in this case, the figure of Logistilla) 
does not just stand by itself — but rather is, always, intended to be something 
else. But even as, earlier, we asked the question of what is the nature of Alcina’s 
vice, so also are we at this point justified in asking: What precisely is Logistilla 
an allegory of? Or, to phrase the question another way, although Logistilla is a 
woman, to what extent has the allegory coded her “male” as a defense against 
Alcina’s (ironic) body? 

Ruggiero’s progression to Logistilla (i.e., the progression to allegory itself) 
begins, not insignificantly, at the moment Alcina’s body is unveiled. In other 
words, because Alcina affirms and negates the truth of her own discourse, her 
body and, in particular, her lower body parts from her tresses to her feet are 
transformed into the discursive space of irony itself: the irony resides below her 
waist in a fleshly and, to Ruggiero, revolting materiality. It is in this fleshly 
materiality that allegory seeks to intervene and “mold” for higher purposes — 
and it is this intervention that becomes the primal scene of allegory’s not fully 
successful confrontation with irony. 

To repeat the question I posed earlier: Does allegory have a sexual politics? 
Let us consider the precise nature of the signifiying process by which the reader 
is intended to move from Alcina’s newly unveiled state of physical decay to a 
Logistillan allegory. Allegory, we may say, has its own libidinal economy — 
and that libidinal economy is distinctly male. In an Aristotelian scheme 
(feminine) matter always desires (masculine) form. In his De generatione 
animalium, Aristotle writes of the process of generation: “the male provides the 
form and the principle of the movement, the female provides the body, in other 
words, the material.”? In a Lacanian scheme, for that matter, there exists a 
virtual ideology of paternity that, by means of the veiled phallus, insists on a 
denial of flesh. For both Aristotle and Lacan, then, the flesh cannot signify. The 
veiled phallus of paternity (perhaps as a severance from the womb and a denial of 


9 De generatione animalium 729 al0. For an excellent discussion of the relationship between 
allegory and Aristotle’s metaphysics, see Teskey, to whom I am indebted for my own tum to 
Aristotle in the context of the Alcina-Logistilla episode. 


Alcina’ s Revenge: Reassessing Irony and Allegory inthe Furioso’ 71 


the procreative mother) must intervene in order to produce a process of 
signification beyond the Real of fleshly materiality: over and against the 
materiality of the female body, paternity establishes itself as the signifier of vital 
perpetuation. But there is an attendant anxiety that underwrites both the ideology 
of paternity and the ideology of allegory. Teskey has argued, “It is the project of 
allegory to descend into the realm of matter, to capture it, and to lift it up onto 
the level of concepts. . . . Allegory must capture the heterogeneity of the 
material and convert it to form.” Herein lies the central quandary for allegory: 
allegory needs a material substratum (hyle), matter, to survive — but if matter 
(the decaying flesh of Alcina) is not inherently symbolic or signifying (not even 
in potentia), how can allegory insure that it is read “properly” — how can 
allegory insure that it is read allegorically? How can Logistillan allegory 
logically emerge from the Real of Alcina’s decaying flesh and arbitrarily endow 
it with a transcendent meaning? This anxiety over the nature of allegorical 
signification is what I take to be at the heart of Teskey’s identification of the 
inherent violence that occurs when allegory tries to move to a higher level of 
abstraction; ideal abstraction in allegory is achieved only by the suppression of 
allegory’s own materiality, a suppression of the material substratum — a 
material “stuff,” if you will — that can never fully be incorporated as allegory 
moves to increasingly complex structures of meaning. 

We may say, then, that allegory attempts to “gender” itself male, and in the 
realm of the Alcina-Logistilla episode the most serious literary challenge to that 
“gendering” impulse may be Alcina’s physical decay (as her own version of an 
Aristotelian hyle). The unveiling of her loathsomeness establishes her as a figure 
of irony par excellence — which is why the move to interpret her allegorically 
(by Logistilla, by Fornari, by Doice, etc.) seems so peremptory and so anti- 
climactic. Allegory needs something to be an allegory of — and thus Logistillan 
allegory seeks to “pin” a vice on Alcina. But does Alcina’s unveiling reveal 
foulness — or is it simply the body of woman which the post-coital male needs 
to revile following (as Shakespeare would phrase it) “the expense of spirit in a 
waste of shame”? Since irony always empties itself of its own content, then we 
could ask: how wrinkled and foul 7s Alcina — or to what extent does the move 
to allegory require a soma (a debased female carnality) in order to constitute itself 
as allegory? The very name “Logistilla” suggests an anxious attempt to impose 
a logic onto Ruggiero’s education — an anxious attempt to show that irony can 
have something other than an entirely negative relationship with interpretation. 
The real underlying anxiety for Logistillan allegory is not so much that Alcina 
is a monstrous woman corrupting the fantasy of male purity — but rather that 
her “corrupt” matter (the locus of the episode’s irony) may not adduce a 
sufficiently transcendent meaning. 

We could say that “Logistilla” is less an allegorical character in the 
narrative than Ariosto’s “ironic joke” at the expense of allegory itself. If (in the 
case of the Alcina episode) irony can co-exist quite happily with fleshly decay — 


72 Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


if, in other words, irony is not in the least anxious in the face of its own 
uninterpretability — then, once again, we may state that irony “knows” what 
allegory does not. After Melissa frees Alcina’s captive plant-men, we see 
Ruggiero standing on a hot, sandy shore: “sol la cicala col noioso metro / fra i 
densi rami del fronzuto stelo / le valli e i monti assorda, e il mare e il cielo” 
(8.20). Not insignificantly, all that can be heard is the monotonous droning of 
the cicadas, intended, no doubt, as a symbol of the “real” sterility that 
underwrote Alcina’s isle. But we are well reminded here of Socrates’ dialogue, 
the Phaedrus. When Phaedrus, walking barefoot with Socrates along the bank of 
the river Ilissus, is counseled to remain silent during the divine chirping of the 
cicadas, it is a sure sign that the prime matter of the woods is teeming with the 
deities of an Orphic inspiration. In such a Phaedran scheme, Ariosto’s chirping 
cicadas come to symbolize the material “noise” of irony that Logistillan 
allegory seeks to suppress. 

I would like now to return to the project of placing the Orlando furioso 
within a European context. Alcina’s “ironic” isle has no real geographical 
location — unlike so much of the rest of the Furioso which takes place in 
Europe. In such a scheme, then, we could argue that Alcinian irony is converted 
into allegory so that Ruggiero can (Aeneas-like) return to the completion of his 
epic destiny, and (in effect) so that the Furioso can take its place within a 
“European” tradition of the literary history of epic. But perhaps the episode’s 
greatest irony has nothing to do with the “allegorizing” of Alcina, but rather 
with her more all-encompassing role not as Ruggiero’s seducer, but as 
(ironically) his savior. On Alcina’s isle, Ruggiero squanders his days in post- 
coital bliss, but, as we also learn, his prolonged dalliance with Alcina is fully in 
accordance with the sorcerer Atlante’s plan to protect his ward from his future 
brutal murder by the Pontieri of the Maganza clan.!° As William J. Kennedy has 
cogently noted, “In view of this issue Alcina represents neither carnal delectation 
simply nor unrestrained sensuality totally, but rather an alternative, and a wholly 
attractive one, to Ruggiero’s destiny” (61). For Kennedy, in other words, the 
Logistillan allegory obscures the most “pungent ironic effect” of the episode 
(65): that it is not Alcina, but Logistilla who, by teaching Ruggiero to tame the 
hippogriff, ends Atlante’s control over Ruggiero and thereby pushes him towards 





that irony “knows” what allegory does not. What irony “knows” is that we can 
“interpret” Alcina indefinitely, but if we ignore the irony of her underlying (if 
inadvertent) role as Ruggiero’s protector, then our interpretation of the episode 
will never be complete. Although Ariosto at one point accuses Alcina of being a 
seductive Dido, in Atlante’s scheme, she is actually a new kind of redeemed 
Dido: the more she lures Ruggiero from Bradamante and the fulfillment of his 
epic destiny, the more she succeeds in saving his life. It is Ruggiero’s dalliance 


10 For more on the role of Atlante as Ruggiero’s ward, see Quint, “The Figure of Atlante.” 


Alcina’ s Revenge: Reassessing Irony and Allegory in the Furioso = _73 


with the ironic Alcina, then, not his instruction by the allegorical Logistilla, 
that, quite literally, saves his life. This is what irony “knows” and allegory does 
not. Viewed in this context, then, we should not be surprised when the long- 
forgotten Alcina makes her sudden and unexpected reappearance in the beginning 
of the Cinque canti, Ariosto’s fragmented continuation of the Furioso that 
focuses on the origins of the Roland saga. In the final analysis, Ariosto’s most 
ironic act of all may be the resurfacing of Alcina, angry at her abandonment by 
Ruggiero, as the principal agent of Ruggiero’s destruction in the Cinque cantt. 


Levarsi Alcina non potea dal core 
che le fosse Ruggier cosi fuggito: 

né so se da pili sdegno o da pil’ amore 
le fosse i] cor la notte e ‘] di assalito; 
e tanto era pili grave il suo dolore, 
quanto men lo potea dir espedito, 
perché del danno che patito avea 

era la fata Logistilla rea. 

(1.19) 


In this cynical work, where Ariosto has almost totally suppressed his playful 
irony in favor of allegory, Carlomagno’s empire disintegrates, and Ruggiero (not 
to mention Bradamante, Orlando, and other heroes from the Furioso) is deposited 
several steps closer to death’s doorstep. 

Significantly, in this work it is Alcina who (ironically) serves as the 
powerful agent of a destructive allegory, enlisting and manipulating the 
allegorical figure of [nvidia to incite the Maganzan Gano into a jealous frenzy at 
Ruggiero’s expense. If, as we have seen, the Furioso’s many appended allegories 
proved to be an uncertain and even at times anxious vehicle for placing Ariosto’s 
epic securely within a European literary tradition, the formerly “ironic” Alcina 
wields her explicit allegory (through the figures of Invidia, Sospetto, etc.) not in 
the Furioso’s dreamy selva oscura of romance but rather in a real, geographically 
explicit Europe (the Europe of Bavaria, Saxony, Silesia, Hungary, Rumania, and 
Serbia — not to mention Carlomagno’s Paris). By shedding her ironic status and 
so thoroughly transforming herself into the agent of a destructive allegory (an 
allegory so thoroughly situated within a “European context”), it is as if Alcina 
seeks her revenge against Quintilian, Logistilla — anyone within literary history 
or the history of rhetoric who would seek to subordinate irony merely as a 
species of allegory. By becoming more “allegorical” than Logistilla, Alcina sees 
to it that allegory places epic more squarely within a “European” literary 
tradition than Logistilla could ever have imagined. 

It is as if Alcina’s resurfacing in the Cinque canti serves as a reminder to 


> “ec 


Ariosto’s readers that irony always serves as allegory’s “return of the repressed.” 


11 Quotations from Caretti’s edition. 


74 Elizabeth J. Bellamy 


Having been “forced” into allegory by Logistilla, Alcina will now (ironically) 
deploy allegory with a vengeance. The final irony of Alcina is that irony can be 
more “allegorical” than allegory itself — and this may be Ariosto’s most ironic 
gesture of all. 

University of New Hampshire 


Works Cited 


Ariosto, Ludovico. Cinque canti. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. Torino: Einaudi, 1977. 
. Orlando furioso. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. Milano: Riccardo Ricciardi Editore, 
1954. 
Ascoli, Albert. Ariosto's Bitter Harmony: Crisis and Evasion in the Italian 
Renaissance. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1987. 
De Blasi, Giorgio. “Ariosto e le passioni.” Giornale storico della letteratura italiana. 
Pt. 1: 129 (1952): 318-62; pt. 2: 130 (1953): 178-203. 
De generatione animalium. 729 a 1b. The Basuc Works of Aristotle. Ed. Richard 
McKeon. New York: 1941. 
De Man, Paul. Blindness and Insight: Essays in the Rhetoric of Contemporary 
Criticism. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1971. 
Durling, Robert. The Figure of the Poet in Renaissance Epic. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
1965. 
Giamatti, Bartlett. The Earthly Paradise and the Renaissance Epic. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1966. 
Javitch, Daniel. ‘‘Cantus Interruptus’ in the Orlando furioso.” Modern Language 
Notes 95:1 (1980): 66-80. 
. “Narrative Discontinuity in the Orlando furioso and its Sixteenth Century 
Critics.” Modern Language Notes 103 (1988): 50-74. 
. “The Orlando furioso and Ovid’s Revision of the Aeneid.” Modern Language 
Notes 99:5 (1984): 1023-35. 
. Proclaiming a Classic: The Canonization of Orlando furioso. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1991. 
Kennedy, William J. “Ariosto’s Ironic Allegory.” Modern Language Notes 88 
(1973): 44-67. 
Momigliano, Attilio. Saggio su l’'Orlando furioso. Bari: Laterza, 1928. 
Murrin, Michael. The Allegorical Epic: Essays in Its Rise and Decline. Chicago: U of 
Chicago P, 1980. 
Quint, David. “The Figure of Atlante: Ariosto and Boiardo’s Poem.” Modern 
Language Notes 94:1 (1979): 77-91. 
Quintilian. Jnstitutio oratoria. Ed. H. E. Butler. Loeb Classical Library. London: 
Heinemann, 1921. 
Shemek, Deanna. “Of Women, Knights, Arms, and Love: The Querelle des Femmes in 
Ariosto’s Poem.” Modern Language Notes 104:1 (1989): 68-97. 
Teskey, Gordon. Allegory and Violence. Ithaca: Cornell UP (forthcoming Fall 1994). 
Weinberg, Bernard. A History of Literary Criticism in the Italian Renaissance. 2 
vols. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1961. 





David Quint 


The Death of Brandimarte 
and the Ending of the Orlando furioso 





The death and subsequent funeral of Brandimarte in the Orlando furioso (41.99- 
42.15; 43.164-185) are best remembered for the pathetic last moments of the 
hero. Brandimarte has been mortally wounded in the combat of three against 
three on the island of Lipadusa; he is himself largely responsible for killing in 
the same duel the pagan king Agramante, whom Orlando finishes off, thereby 
bringing an end to the war that Agramante brought to France — the epic subject 
of Ariosto’s poem. Taking little joy in his victory, Orlando rushes to his dying 
comrade in time to receive Brandimarte’s last words. 


— Orlando, fa che ti raccordi 

di me ne |’orazion tue grate a Dio; 

né men ti raccomando la mia Fiordi. . . — 
ma dir non poté ligi, e qui finio. 

E voci e suoni d’angeli concordi 

tosto in aria s’udir che l'alma uscio; 

la qual disciolta dal corporeo velo 

fra dolce melodia sali nel cielo.! 


(42.14) 
(“Orlando, remember me in your prayers that are welcome to God; nor less do I 
commend to you my Fiordi. . .”; but he could not get out “ligi,” and ended at this 


point. And harmonious voices and music of angels were heard as soon as his soul left 
him, which, freed from its bodily veil, rose to heaven amid a sweet melody.) 


Brandimarte’s voice and life break off before he can pronounce the last two 
syllables of the name of his beloved wife, Fiordiligi. Fiordiligi’s later death, as 
she wastes away in a little cell that she has built next to the tomb of her 
husband in Agrigento (43.183-185), only adds to the sadness of their story; they 
are the emblematic loving and happily married couple of the Furioso and the 
reader may sense that their deaths reflect Ariosto’s pessimism about both love 
and human happiness. Still, the pathos of the scene is at the very least distanced 
by the very bravura poetic effect that helps to create it: is it impossible for 
Brandimarte to say “ligi” because he dies or because only “Fiordi. . .” fits the 
stanza’s rhyme scheme? In characteristic Ariostesque fashion, a literary self- 


1 AN\ citations are taken from Caretti’s edition of the Orlando furtoso. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


76 David Quint 


consciousness that draws attention to itself drains off some of the passage’s 
emotional charge. Just how seriously should we take this affecting, heroic death? 

The seriousness and significance of the death of Brandimarte may lie less in 
itself, as this sly nod of the poet to the reader suggests, than in its relationship 
to other heroic careers in the Furioso. In a poem where virtually all the pagan 
champions are slain, Brandimarte is the only major Christian hero, among the 
many paladins whom Ariosto inherited from Boiardo's Orlando innamorato, to 
die.” All of the mourning that might temper the Christian victory over the army 
of Agramante is thus focussed on Brandimarte — and this helps to account for 
the weight of pathos that his death acquires. There, but for the grace of God (or 
poet), go other paladins. In particular, Brandimarte is a stand-in for the poem’s 
double heroes, Ruggiero and Orlando, both of whom live under a death sentence. 
Ruggiero, as the saintly hermit who baptizes him knows (41.61) but may not 
have informed him (41.67), will die seven years from the moment of his 
conversion — and it was this fate that caused Ruggiero’s old guardian, the 
sorcerer Atlante, repeatedly to use his magic powers to keep the knight out of 
the action of the Furioso, to prevent Ruggiero's marriage to Bradamante that is 


2 The death of the Scottish prince Zerbino (24.75-85) is another outstanding Christian casualty, but 
Zerbino is a new character invented by Ariosto, not Boiardo; as is Lurcanio, the duped brother of 
Ariodante in the same Scottish episode of Canto 5, who is killed as the major victim of Dardinello’s 
aristeia in Canto 18.54-55: Lurcanio appears to be “punished” here for having caused all the 
trouble to Ginevra (5.61f.), Zerbino's sister, earlier in the poem. The death of Zerbino and the 
subsequent martyrdom of his beloved Isabella (29.25f.) appear to be introduced into the poem 
precisely to provide doublets for the deaths of Brandimarte and Fiordiligi; Fiordiligi, in fact, meets 
the other couple at 24.53-56 and watches the duel between Mandricardo and Zerbino (24.58f.) 
that will prove to be fatal to Zerbino. Zerbino fights Mandricardo to prevent the saracen from 
taking the mad Orlando’s discarded sword: he fights and dies, that is, as Orlando’s faithful 
companion, the role that belongs in the poem more properly to Brandimarte. The dying Zerbino, 
we might say, prefigures the death of Brandimarte, just as the fate of Brandimarte will, in tum, 
prefigure the deaths of Ruggiero, Orlando, and Orlando’s other faithful companion, Oliviero. 
Brandimarte’s death is also pointedly contrasted with the survival at Lipadusa of Sobrino, the only 
African pagan who remained alive from among Agramante’s vast host. Sobrino is the exception 
who proves the rule of the prophecy of the oracle of Apollino in the Orlando innamorato, the 
oracle had predicted that all those whom Agramante brought with him to France would perish 
(1.1.59), and Sobrino himself had urged Agramante to forego his planned invasion (II.1.51). 
(Being pagan, the oracle was of course mistaken; but by a double irony, it was not, unfortunately 
for the pagans, off by much.) It may be pointed out that the other notable exception to the mass 
liquidation of the African troops is Medoro, the infantryman who with his new wife, the princess 
Angelica, leaves for Cathay at 30.16. With Brandimarte and Fiordiligi, they are the other happily 
married couple of the Furioso; while the former die, Medoro and Angelica are expelled from its 
poetic universe to leave the field free for Ruggiero and Bradamante at its end. 

Finally, the treacherous Pinabello is killed by Bradamante at the end of Canto 22.97, avenging his 
attempt to kill her in Canto 2.75-76. As a Maganzese traitor, the Christian Pinabello is equivalent to 
a pagan, and his death will be doubled by the later killing of Bertolagi (26.13; see also 46.68, a 
stanza that would be attached to the Cinque canti). I have discussed the significance of the killing 
of Pinabello, which introduces time and death into what was the exact center of the 1516, forty- 
canto version of the Furioso, in “The Figure of Atlante” 80. 


The Death of Brandimarte and the Ending of the Orlando furioso 77 


the goal of the poem’s dynastic plot. Orlando, as all readers of his story know, 
will die in his last stand at Roncevaux, the great, almost apocalyptic disaster of 
the Carolingian chivalric cycle. The deaths of both heroes, Ruggiero and 
Orlando, lie outside the Furioso; yet both, as we shall see, are also in the poem, 
for they are carefully paralleled and prefigured in Brandimarte’s death. The poem 
thus already points beyond and questions the meaning of its ending, which may 
be shaped not so much by a triumphalist epic providence as by death itself — 
the end of all human narratives — that visits Christian and pagan alike. 


1. Brandimarte and Ruggiero 
The poem links Brandimarte and Ruggiero through the issue of conversion. It is 
Brandimarte, himself a convert to Christianity in the Orlando innamorato 
(11.13.45), who attempts to persuade Agramante to embrace Christianity and to 
forgo the duel at Lipadusa (41.37-41), only to earn the king’s angry and dignified 
refusal to leave the faith of his ancestors (42-45). The episode is immediately 
followed in Ariosto’s interlace narrative by the last-minute conversion of the 
drowning Ruggiero (46-49), who, his forces miraculously revived, manages to 
reach the island of the hermit who instructs him in Christianity and baptizes him 
(59). The juxtaposition sets off the fatalistic and heroically impressive defiance 
of Agramante with Ruggiero's abject surrender to God — the stripping away of 
human pride and self-reliance that is necessary for authentic conversion. And 
Ruggiero is physically saved, while Agramante will subsequently die at 
Lipadusa, his soul prey as well to Charon and damnation (42.9). But Brandimarte 
also dies at Lipadusa, and, as Albert Russell Ascoli, has pointed out, Ruggiero's 
own fated death seven years in the future — the physical as well as spiritual 
death that is set in motion with his conversion — is projected and enacted in 
Brandimarte’s violent demise (Ascoli 362-63). 

The Furioso further links Brandimarte and Ruggiero shortly before the 
events of Lipadusa by bringing onto the scene a minor character, the elderly 
Bardino (39.4041): 


era costui, Bardino che rapito 

al padre Brandimarte piccolino, 

et a Rocca Silvana avea notrito, 

(39.41.2-4) 
(he was Bardino who had abducted the child Brandimarte from his father and raised him 
at Rocca Silvana) 


The story goes back to the Orlando innamorato, where we learn that Bardino had 
carried off the young Brandimarte from his father, King Manodante, sold him to 
the Count of Rocca Silvana, and then remained as the child’s “governatore” 
(Innamorato 11.13.36-38). These features of Brandimarte’s story recall and 
textually echo what we are told of the childhood experience of Ruggiero, raised 
in a remote castle by Atlante, who, at the beginning of the Furioso, has once 


78 David Quint 


again sequestered Ruggiero, in order to protect him from his fatal destiny, in 
another “rocca” (4.29;31;32) in the Pyrenees. 


Ruggiero ha nome, il qual da piccolino 
da me notrito fu, ch’io sono Atlante. 
(4.30) 
(Ruggiero is his name, who was raised from childhood by me, who am Atlante.) 


explains the old sorcerer to Bradamante. Moreover, when Bardino makes his 
appearance in the Furioso, he brings with him the news of the death of 
Manodante (called Monodante by Ariosto). He has come to recall Brandimarte to 
his father’s throne, where he will rule over the richest kingdom on earth in the 
Isole Lontane, apparently somewhere in Indonesia in the poem’s fantastic 
geography (39.62); according to the Innamorato (1.21.49), Manodante possessed 
more than half the riches of the world. By summoning Brandimarte away from 
the battlefield to a life of wealth and ease — and Bardino asserts that once 
Brandimarte has tasted the comforts of home, he will have no more desire for the 
life of knight-errantry (39.63) — he offers him a version of the same choice of 
Achilles that Atlante had tried to make for his ward Ruggiero: and Atlante had 
placed in his castle all the “music, songs, garments, games, and food” (4.33) that 
any heart or appetite could desire. Brandimarte, however, resolves to finish out 
the war (39.63). Like Ruggiero, he rejects an early or premature retirement from 
the heroic stage proffered by a surrogate father; but unlike Achilles (/liad 9.410- 
416), neither Brandimarte nor Ruggiero seems aware that this choice entails 
dying young, another kind of early exit. 

Finally Brandimarte and Ruggiero are linked by the marriage plot of the 
Furioso. As the emblematic faithfully wedded couple of the poem, Brandimarte 
and Fiordiligi mirror its central couple, Ruggiero and Bradamante, whose 
marriage, the foundation of the Este dynasty, is the much-delayed goal of 
Ariosto’s narrative. Fiordiligi’s continuing quest for Brandimarte (8.88f.) 
parallels at a minor level the quest that Bradamante undertakes for Ruggiero 
throughout the poem. By the same token, Fiordiligi’s mourning over her dead 
husband in Agrigento contrasts with the festivities that accompany the final 
wedding of Ruggiero and Bradamante achieved in the poem’s last canto: a 
contrast all the more deeply felt in the original 1516 version of the poem, where 
Brandimarte’s funeral in Canto 39 directly preceded the nuptial celebration in 
Canto 40. One marriage is violently severed as another is joined: the narrative 
juxtaposition is another ominous reminder that the wedded happiness of 
Ruggiero and Bradamante is already living on borrowed time. 


2. Brandimarte and Orlando 
Brandimarte is the beloved companion of Orlando. Orlando’s reaction to his death 
at Lipadusa is compared to the wrathful grief of Achilles seeing his cherished 


The Death of Brandimarte and the Ending of the Orlando furioso 79 


Patroclus slain at Troy (42.2); Brandimarte’s funeral at Agrigento (43.166f.) is 
modelled on the funeral that Aeneas gives to Pallas at Aeneid 11.22f. in Virgil's 
version of the Achilles-Patroclus relationship. There is already a sense in the 
Iliad that the death of Patroclus anticipates the future death of Achilles that 
Homer’s epic will not narrate, and that the hero can see his own death mirrored 
in the death of his friend — especially when, as Ariosto’s evocation of the scene 
insists, Achilles sees Patroclus wearing “il falso elmetto” (42.2.5), dressed, that 
is, in Achilles' own armor. The epic model may similarly implicate Orlando in 
Brandimarte's death. But alongside this classical model, the most celebrated epic 
moment of Ariosto’s Carolingian tradition depicted both the hero and his beloved 
friend perishing together in battle: the deaths of Orlando and Oliviero at 
Roncevaux. It is this moment and these deaths that Brandimarte’s death at 
Lipadusa symbolically anticipates: it is no coincidence that his companions at 
Lipadusa are Orlando and Oliviero. 

Brandimarte, in fact, displaces Oliviero in the Furioso from his traditional 
role as Orlando’s best friend. Oliviero plays a distinctly minor part in the poem 
until Lipadusa, though he has already been paired with Brandimarte as a fellow 
prisoner of Rodomonte (35.53; 39.33). Oliviero’s emergence into a prominent 
role in the Furioso at the occasion of the duel at Lipadusa is, in fact, designed — 
as are a whole series of textual details in Cantos 42 and 43 — to spell out a 
parallel between this duel and the future battle and disaster at Roncevaux, where 
both he and Orlando will be killed, especially the Roncevaux depicted by Luigi 
Pulci in the Morgante.? And Oliviero’s presence also points to the way that the 
Furioso has doubled his character with that of Brandimarte: a Brandimarte who at 
Lipadusa must suffer the death that awaits Oliviero. Brandimarte’s famous last 
truncated words are modelled on the death-scene of Pulci’s Oliviero: as Orlando 
finally agrees to blow his horn, his boon companion expires on the battlefield of 
Roncevaux: 


Disse Ulivieri: — Omai non ti bisogna; 
l’anima mia da me gia vuol partire, 

ché nitornare al suo Signore agogna. — 
E non poté le parole espedire, 

come chi parla molte volte, e sogna, 


3 Monteverdi argued some time ago for the link between Lipadusa and Roncevaux, but to the 
Roncevaux of the Chanson de Roland rather than to that of the Morgante (“Lipadusa e 
Roncisvalle”). Monteverdi points out, 405, that the hor Orlando will famously blow at Roncevaux 
is mentioned for the only time in the poem when the hero accepts the challenge of Agramante to 
fight at Lipadusa at 40.57, and he also notes, 404, the importance of the presence of Oliviero. He 
reaches a conclusion about Brandimarte’s death that is similar to the one that I am putting forward 
here: “Dalla morte del prode e fedele Brandimarte, dal contegno della sua Fiordiligi, prevediamo 
quale sara la morte di Orlando e la sorte della sua Alda. Cosi, ripeto, 1’Ariosto non ha bisogno di 
condurre la storia di Orlando sino all a fine, proprio come nessun bisogno ebbe Omero di condurre 
alla fine la storia di Achille” (408). 


80 David Quint 


e bisognoe quel che e’ voleva dire 

per discrezion intender: che Alda bella 

raccomandar volea, la sua sorella.4 

(27.68) 
(Oliver said, “Now there is no need for you to do so; my soul already wants to leave 
me, for it desires to return to its Lord.” And he could not issue the words, as one who 
speaks many times and dreams; and it was necessary to understand by one’s judgment 
what he wanted to say: that he wanted to commend Alda the Fair, his sister.) 


“Non poté”: this Oliviero does not even get a chance to commend Aldabella, his 
sister and Orlando’s wife, while the voice of Ariosto’s Brandimarte breaks off in 
the middle of the name of his commended Fiordiligi.> Both heroes die in the 
arms of Orlando. And at Roncevaux, Orlando will die as well. 

For Pulci’s Orlando himself similarly commends Aldabella — “Alda la bella 
mia ti raccomando” (27.130) — in his seemingly interminable death scene in the 
Morgante. And, like the “suoni of angeli concordi” heard at Brandimarte’s death, 
the moment when Orlando’s soul finally leaves his body is accompanied by the 
sound of heavenly music: “certa armonia con si soavi accenti,/ che ben parea 
d’angelici instrumenti” (155). Brandimarte’s last moments thus echo the deaths 
of both Oliviero and Orlando in the Morgante’s version of Roncevaux. 

Ariosto, moreover, underscores the parallel between Pulci’s Roncevaux and 
Lipadusa through the figure of Rinaldo, who in both the Morgante and the 
Furioso arrives late at the battlefield. Pulci’s narrator self-consciously 
acknowledges that in the traditional literary accounts Rinaldo did not fight at 
Roncevaux at all: he claims to base his revisionary version on the writings of 
one Arnaldo provided to him by an Angel — Angelo Poliziano (25.115), his 
fellow poet in the Medici circle. Rinaldo is brought from distant Egypt to the 
rescue of Charlemagne — “E bisognava che Rinaldo vegna,/ se non che Carlo 
non avea rimedio:” (25.170) — through the agency of the devil Astarotte with 
whom he enjoys en route a long and digressive disquisition on the freedom of the 
will and other matters (25.200-332). He arrives at Roncevaux in time to rout the 
saracen forces (26.90), but not soon enough to prevent the death of Orlando; he 
is present to watch and mourn his cousin’s protracted last moments. In the 
Furioso Rinaldo is in Basel (42.67) when he learns of the upcoming battle at 
Lipadusa: he hastens to join Orlando, but his travels through Italy similarly 
open up into the digressive episode of the Mantuan host and the ensuing stories 
recounted to him by the boatman on the Po (42.70-43.144). Try though he may, 


4 All citations of the Morgante come from Ageno’s edition. 

5 The possibility of a recollection of Pulci’s episode was broached and rejected by Rajna in a 
footnote of Le fonti dell’Orlando furioso (559). Rajna noted that the inability of Pulci’s Oliviero to 
get out the words of his commendation of Aldabella was a parody of a much more diffused 
conventional scene, and he was unwilling to agree that Ariosto had imitated it in the death of 
Brandimarte. I believe that Rajna was too hasty to dismiss the parallel (and the echo of “non 
poté”), especially given the other echoes of Pulci and other Roncevaux poems in the episode. 


The Death of Brandimarte and the Ending of the Orlando furioso 81 


Rinaldo is thwarted by adverse winds that make him arrive late at Lipadusa — 
“ma di poco” (43.150) says Ariosto’s equally self-conscious, malicious narrator 
of this near miss in the poem’s narrative connections. (The same narrator 
remarks that Rinaldo, arriving just after the duel has ended and when Brandimarte 
is already dead [151], has reached the island for the fruit course or rather after the 
banquet had been removed from the table [153].) Ariosto has shaped his fiction 
so that Rinaldo’s long journey and narrow failure to arrive in time at Lipadusa, 
where he might have taken the place of Brandimarte and saved him from death, 
recalls the journey of Rinaldo to Roncevaux in the Morgante. The parallel points 
in the Furioso to the future death of Orlando, a death foreseen and decreed by the 
poetic tradition and a death that Pulci, for all of his manipulation of that 
tradition, could not avoid; his Rinaldo may fight at Roncevaux, but he still 
cannot save Orlando's life. 

The funeral of Brandimarte at Agrigento also suggests future as well as 
present mourning. Orlando compares Brandimarte’s sacrifice to that of the Decii 
and Marcus Curtius (43.174), just as Pulci’s Orlando invokes the same figures 
of Roman republican virtue to urge his men and himself to martyrdom at 
Roncevaux (26.37-38).© There is something excessive in Orlando’s grief-stricken 
assessment of Brandimarte’s valor and the significance of his loss. 


Oh quanto, quanto il mio signore e Zio, 
oh quanto i paladin da doler s’hanno! 
quanto l’Imperio e la cristiana Chiesa, 
che perduto han la sua maggior difesa! 


Oh quanto si torra per la tua morte 

di terrore a’ nimici e di spavento! 

Oh quanto Pagania sara pit forte! 

quanto animo n’avra, quanto ardimento! 

(43.172-173) 
(O how much, how much, my lord and uncle, o how much the paladins of France have 
to mourn for! how much the Empire and the Christian Church, which have lost their 
greatest defender! Oh how much terror and fear your death will remove from our 
enemies! O how much stronger Pagandom will become, how much daring and spirit it 
will acquire! ) 


The recollection here of Aeneas’s words over the body of Pallas — “quantum / 
praesidium Ausonia et quantum tu perdis, Iule!” (Aeneid 11.57-58) — is woven 
into a lament for Christendom’s greatest defender, a title that seems less 
appropriate to Brandimarte, fine warrior that he may have been, than to Orlando 
himself. It is Orlando to whom, according to Ariosto’s St. John, God granted 
superhuman, heroic strength “a difesa di sua santa fede” (34.63.5), on whom, 


© See the note in Bigi’s edition of the Orlando furtoso 2:1804. 


82 David Quint 


Fiordiligi says, empire and church depend — “a cui la chiesa et l’alto imperio 
debbe” (31.42.6). Pio Rajna pointed out that Orlando’s words parallel the 
lamentation that Charlemagne, his lord and uncle, makes over Orlando’s own 
body in the early verse redaction of the Roncevaux story, the fourteenth century 
Spagna in rima.’ 


© campion sommo del cristiano stuolo, 

per te con pena nel mondo rimagno 

e sconsolato con gravoso duolo. 

Oggi per la tua morte abassa e cade 

tutta la speme di Cristianitade. 

(La Spagna 3:122; 37.4) 
(O greatest champion of the Christian army, on your account I remain with sorrow in 
the world, and inconsolable with heavy grief. Because of your death all the hope of 
Christendom today falls and is laid low.) 


And here is a variant version of the same speech: 


Chi difendera la gente christiana 

o ualoroxo e nobile chapitano 

della tua forza la gente paghana 

tremaua tutto lo monte e Ilo piano 

e ora la tua persona sie uana.... 

(La Spagna 3:324) 
(Who will defend Christian peoples, o valorous and noble captain? before your 
strength the pagans trembled on mountain and on plain, and now you are without life 
and power. . . .) 


Such premonitions that Orlando’s death will put an end to pagan fears and that 
Christendom may fall with its champion appear to be the model for the similar 
eulogy that Ariosto’s Orlando makes over the body of Brandimarte. The echoes 
should make the reader of the Furioso feel a premonition of a different kind. 
Where Brandimarte now lies lifeless Orlando will one day lie himself, the slain 
defender of the faith mourned by a newly weakened and apprehensive 
Charlemagne. 


3. Death and Closure 

The dying Brandimarte thus does double duty as a stand-in for both Ruggiero and 
Orlando, fatally linking together the twin heroes of the Furioso. Both are left 
standing at the close of the Furioso, but the knowledge that their days are 
nevertheless numbered darkens our sense of the poem’s ending and of the two 
epic plots that give that ending shape: plots with which Ruggiero and Orlando 
are respectively associated. Ariosto turned to Virgilian epic formulas in order to 


7 Rajna notes this parallel in Le fonti 560n4. 





The Death of Brandimarte and the Ending of the Orlando furioso 83 


impose narrative goals and closure upon the apparently open-ended chivalric 
adventures he inherited from the Orlando innamorato, and thus to distinguish the 
Furioso from Boiardo’s romance.’ These goals are twofold: the marriage of 
Ruggiero and Bradamante that founds the Este dynasty and — once Orlando 
regains his sanity and rejoins the forces of Charlemagne — the martial victory of 
Christian Europe over Islamic Africa, a victory so total that virtually no pagan 
escapes. The two plots come together in the final episode of the poem, when 
Ruggiero must fight and kill Rodomonte, the last remaining African hero, at his 
wedding feast: the accomplishment of the war plot is made to appear a necessary 
condition for the fulfillment of the marriage plot. 

The killing off, one by one, of its pagan knights as so many impediments 
to closure accompanies the epic progress of the Furioso and the shutting down of 
its digressive and dilatory romance subplots — so much so that one begins to 
suspect that the meaning of this closure may lie less in the geopolitical and 
dynastic settlements it achieves than in the disclosure of death itself as the 
ending that romance, with its potentially endless series of adventures, attempts 
to put off and keep out of sight. This suspicion is that much stronger because 
the fantastic nature of “history” in the Furioso Ruggiero is a patently fictional 
avatar of the Este and the war between Charlemagne and Agramante never took 
place — lends a peculiarly conventional status to the epic formulas that bring it 
to a close: we are invited to stand back with the self-conscious poet and look 
hard at the conventions themselves. The simultaneous elimination of pagan 
champions and of romance adventure, moreover, seems to identify such adventure 
itself as pagan, or at least as a genre in which both pagans and Christians, 
insomuch as they act as individuals, can participate on an equal footing — more 
precisely, in the celebrated opening scene of the poem, Rinaldo and Ferrat share 
the same horse (1.21-22) — while epic demands an ultimately fatal sorting out 
of the adversaries of different faiths. Ariosto might already be taken to provide a 
model for Tasso’s assimilation of romance wandering and pagan error in the 
Gerusalemme liberata (Zatti 51; Quint, Epic and Empire 3541). 

But the lone Christian casualty Brandimarte, the apparent exception that 


8 Quint, “The Figure of Atlante.” I have argued, 86-87, that “epic and romance do not so much 
differentiate the Liberata from the Furioso as the Furioso from the Innamorato.” And I also relate 
this superimposition of epic ending on the endlessness of romance to the disclosure of a death that 
is virtually absent from Boiardo's poem : “The impetus towards closure of the Furioso reveals an 
authentic human temporality masked by the open-ended /nmnamorato. The Furioso will discredit its 
own framework of providential history and with it the divine retribution which systematically kills 
off its characters. But those characters die all the same, and by their deaths produce the ending of 
the poem. . . . Ariosto, by putting an end to both the Furioso and the Innamorato, affirms the reality 
of death. The affirmation is cheerless enough but genuine: mortality is one unassailable fact in a 
poetic world where everything else human is illusion and madness. The ‘meaning’ disclosed by the 
temporal unfolding of Ariosto’s narrative is the unfolding of time itself, and its ending is the end to 
which all men must come” (84). For a different view of the status of death in the poem, see 
Ascoli, Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony 361-76. On epic and romance, see Zatti, // furioso 1-37. 


84 David Quint 


proves the rule of the poem’s epic discrimination between Christian and pagan 
knights, also points to future violent deaths on the Christian side, those of 
Ruggiero, Orlando, Oliviero — too many exceptions for the rule to hold. Thus, 
epic closure, no less than the romance adventure, may evade or conceal a reality 
of death. To be sure, the transhistorical goals of the epic ending of the Furioso 
— the political triumph and perpetuation of Christendom, the foundation of the 
Este lineage, even the possibility of salvation dramatized in Ruggiero’s 
conversion — project meaning beyond the individual's death, while romance 
adventure merely puts off a death to come: the adventure remains immersed in its 
immediate present and may be humanistically “pagan” — and timebound — for 
that reason. But the overarching epic narrative cannot paper over the extent to 
which it is produced to respond to the more universal sense of ending that is 
human mortality itself, a death that may be the unacknowledged goal of all 
narratives we tell about ourselves.!° In the death of Brandimarte, Ariosto’s poem 
concedes that this death cannot simply be displaced onto the losing, pagan side 
but will be experienced — whether more meaningfully or not — by the 
Christian heroes themselves: and Ruggiero and Orlando will die sooner rather 
than later. Qualifying its achieved ending, and perhaps all epic endings, as 
premature and provisional, the Furioso already anticipates and suggests the logic 
of its dark sequel. The Cinque canti not only renew epic hostilities just when 
Charlemagne and his people had thought the danger was over (2.33-35), but in 
the edict of the primordial Demogorgon — “che sia Orlando, sia Carlo, sia il 
lignagggio / di Francia, sia tutto l’Imperio spento” (1.30) — announce their own 
quasi-apocalyptic sense of ending: the death of a poetic universe. 


Yale University 


Works Cited 


Ariosto, Ludovico. Orlando furioso. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. Milano: R. Ricciardi, 
1954. 
. Orlando furioso. 2 vols. Ed. Emilio Bigi. Milano: Rusconi, 1982. 
Ascoli, Albert Russel. Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony: Crisis and Evasion in the Italian 
Renaissance. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1987. 


9 In the “The Figure of Atlante,” I argued that Ariosto’s bringing of death into the romance world 
of the Orlando innamorato contained a critique of the quattrocento humanism motivating the idea 
of adventure in Boiardo’s poem; I have now suggested that the Furioso describes this same 
adventure (and the humanist attitude towards time that may inform it) as “pagan.” I am again 
struck by the way that Ariosto has anticipated Tasso — and both have anticipated Burckhardt. See 
Zatti, L'uniforme cristiano e il multiforme pagano for the argument that the pagans of the 
Gerusalemme liberata embody an earlier humanism (with whom the poet shares a not-so-secret 
solidarity.) 

“Death is the sanction of everything the storyteller can tell,” writes Benjamin in “The 
Storyteller” 94. 





The Death of Brandimarte and the Ending of the Orlando furioso 85 


Benjamin, Walter. “The Storyteller.” //luminations. Ed. Hannah Arendt. Trans. Harry 
Zohn. New York: Schocker Books, 1969. 

Monteverdi, Angelo. “Lipadusa e Roncisvalle.” Lettere italiane 13 (1961): 401-09. 

Pulci, Luigi. Morgante. Ed.Franca Ageno. Milano: R. Ricciardi, 1955. 

Quint, David. Epic and Empire. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 

. “The Figure of Atlante: Ariosto and Boiardo’s Poem.” MLN 94 (1979): 77- 

91. 

Rajna, Pio. Le fonti dell’'Orlando furioso. Firenze: Sansoni, 1900. 

La Spagna: poema cavalleresco del secolo xiv. 3 vols. Ed. Michele Catalano. 
Bologna: Commissione per i testi di lingua, Casa Carducci, 1940. 

Zatti, Sergio. I] furioso fra epos e romanzo. Lucca: Pacini Fazzi, 1990. 

. L'uniforme cristiano e il multiforme pagano. Milano: I] Saggiatore, 1983. 








Ronald L. Martinez 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: 

The Money of Tyranny 

in Niccold da Correggio’s Fabula de Cefalo 
and in Orlando furioso 42-43 





At the risk of making too much of a whimsical title, the de-cephalizing of 
Rinaldo might simply mean Rinaldo’s prudent decision (Orlando furioso 43.7-8) 
not to repeat the fate of Cephalus, the mythical prince of Athens who — 
according to Ovid and other ancient writers — was persuaded by the dawn 
goddess Aurora to disguise himself and test his wife’s fidelity with an offer of 
money, but succeeds only in offending her and driving her away.! In this sense, 
the two tales narrated to Rinaldo in Orlando furioso 43, which imitate aspects of 
the story of Cephalus, follow-up Rinaldo’s rescue by the knight of Sdegno from 
the monster of gelosia, which had attacked Rinaldo after he heard from Malagigi 
of Angelica’s departure with Medoro toward Cathay. In terms of the poem as a 
whole, the episode of Rinaldo’s jealousy forms a pendant to the central account 
(cantos 23-24) of Orlando’s jealousy and madness, as well as to the adventures of 
Rinaldo in Scotland early in the poem.? It also fits in logically, as Ceserani 
remarks, before Rinaldo’s role in bestowing his sister to Ruggiero in marriage, 
in the episode added for the 1532 edition.? Of course, in the 1516 edition the 
episode of Rinaldo virtually concludes the poem, and is thus Ariosto’s “last 
word” on a number of important themes including fidelity, ingratitude, and the 
folly of possessive jealousy.’ Like Ariosto’s fifth satire, which discusses the 
dangers and attractions of taking a wife, the tales told to Rinaldo offer cautionary 
advice about marriage in the Renaissance tradition of cassone panels, bedroom 
wall frescoes, and the Fabula de Cefalo of Niccolo da Correggio, first represented 


1 For Ariosto’s versions of the story of Cephalus, in addition to the version of Niccold da 
Correggio, discussed below, see Ovid, Metamorphoses 7.672-865; Hyginus, Fabulae, ch. 184; 
probably. Boccaccio, De claris mulieribus, ch. 26, and Genealogia deorum gentilium 13.65. 

The Rinaldo-Orlando juxtaposition is traditional, going back to the distinction of Roland as proz 
and Oliver as sage in the Chanson de Roland. For Rinaldo’s representation as prudente see 
Santoro, 1973: 93-98. See also Pool, 221-237, esp. 230, and Casadei 1992: 90-96. 

Ceserani 1984: 500-502 identifies a “marriage theme” in the poem and in this episode. The 
whole Rinaldo episode, the longest in the poem (42.29-43.151, or 234 ottave) has rarely been 
discussed in depth, but see: Moretti, 65-78; Negri, 135-39; Santoro 1983, 133-54; Weaver, 384- 
406; Wiggins, 30-37; Zatti, 55-57; Sherberg, 81-89; none of these discusses the tales told to Rinaldo 
in detail. Schiesari (1991) offers a feminist, psycho- analytic interpretation, with emphasis on the 
serpent imagery. 

“ For the final position of the episode, see Moretti, 66, Pool, 221, and Casadei 1992: 87-91; this 
effect is of course blunted with the 1532 additions. On infidelity and ingratitude, see note below. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


88 Ronald L. Martinez 


at Ferrara on St. Agnes’ eve (21 January) 1487 as part of a marriage celebration, 
and long recognized as a proximate source for Ariosto’s novelle in canto 43.5 

But de-cephalizing might also refer to Ariosto’s transformation of the 
literary economy of the Cefalo, a courtly fable in which the virginal purity of 
the bride is restored by superhuman agency: accidentally killed by her husband, 
Procri is brought back to life by the Goddess Diana, purified of past infidelity 
and jealousy. In Ariosto’s poem, the first story narrated to Rinaldo concludes 
with the departure of the indignant wife and the inconsolable remorse of the 
woeful knight, her husband, who narrates it: it offers no solution to either the 
scandal of infidelity or the tyranny of jealousy. Rinaldo then hears what is 
essentially the same story again, and in the account of Argia, Anselmo and 
Adonio (significantly, this time the characters are given names) he demolishes 
expectations of perfectibility and offers a model for the restoration of the spousal 
bond based on acknowledged mutual fallibility. Illustrating Rinaldo’s 
observation that to wish to know a wife’s fidelity is like Adam’s mad desire for 
the forbidden fruit (43.8), the second tale makes Anselmo’s fall into cuckoldry, 
hypocrisy, murderous intent and intended sodomy a domestic felix culpa: to be 
fallen and forgiven emerges as preferable to remaining unfallen, because it 
dispels the pretensions of virtue. Although Ariosto uses supernatural means (the 
sorceress Manto, who assists Argia and Adonio) to resolve his marriage-tale, the 
private pact of Anselmo and Argia could not be more different from da 
Correggio’s solution to jealousy and infidelity in the Cefalo: first perturbed by 
the lust of a goddess, Aurora, for Cefalo, the human couple is also finally 
redeemed by a powerful deity, Diana; a dea ex machina intervenes to transform 
human tragedy into divine comedy. 

In bringing the solution of the novella into the hands of the couple 
themselves, Ariosto’s allusions to the Cefalo and its epithalamic motives 
anchors a movement “back home” to the local and familiar in the Furioso, 
preparing the poet’s return to port in 46.1-19.6 Widely recognized by the 
Ferrarese and Mantuan courts of his day as embodying the ideals of courtesy and 
chivalry (and a poet to boot), da Correggio probably helped inspire the settings 
of the tales in canto 43, which, unusually for the Orlando furioso, take place in 


5 For parallels with the Cefalo, see Rajna, 569-589, esp. 571- 72. On the Cefalo in the context of an 
Ariostean “marriage theme” (the Bolognese Cefalo of 1475 was also produced for a wedding), see 
Ceserani 1984, 502. There are discussions of the Cefalo and of Niccold da Correggio in Luzio and 
Renier 1893, 205-64; 1893, 65-119; 1900, 233-35; Arata, 170-199; di Benedetto, 161-82; Pyle, 169- 
180; and Benvenuti and Sacchi, 201-07. Though not a stage success, the Cefalo went through four 
editions before 1516, and through Ariosto’s mediation the story of Cephalus had considerable 
influence in European literature (Tasso, Cervantes, La Fontaine). Lavin, 260-287 shows the 
Cephalus story fumished subjects for cassoni and mural decoration (Piero di Cosimo, Bernardo 
Luini, Baldassare Peruzzi) conforming to its domestic, conjugal emphasis. 

In the 1516 edition, the poet’s approach to the dock followed the river-joumney of Rinaldo; see 
Sherberg, 88, and Casadei 1992: 96-100. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 89 


named, historical cities.’ At the thematic level, Rinaldo, once freed from his 
passion for the fugitive Angelica, is brought to think of his wife Clarice; at 
another level of interpretation, the tales provide a staging area for Ariosto’s 
meditation on his own most intimate loyalties. Thus the emphasis on the 
marital and domestic in the tales is more than nuptial and dynastic: it is 
economic in the broadest sense, implying the administration of the feudal 
household, thought of as the extended Renaissance famiglia as well as the 
marital chamber and its possible dangers. This return to a domestic economy has 
literary as well as political implications: Ariosto acknowledges the turn away 
from the tragic already underway in the Cefalo® by invoking the urban and 
“mercantile” register of Boccaccio’s Decameron as a counterweight to the high- 
serious traditions of Dante, Petrarch, and the martial epic.? These developments 
suggest that the real counterpart to Rinaldo’s internal (and introspective) 
navigation of the Po valley is Ruggiero’s journey on the hippogriff early in the 
poem — as, in fact, the contiguity of this episode to the poet’s return in the 
1516 edition might suggest. As Ruggiero’s far-flung episode is organized by the 
“great circle” of the circumnavigation of the globe, Rinaldo’s episode, though 
including widely diverse material, is unified by reference to and travel on the 
river: not only does the fluvial setting link the siting of both novelle (Mantua, 
on the Mincio, and Ferrara, on the Po del Primaro), but the Po is necessarily the 
river into which the fountain of chaste women discharges its waters: thus all the 
strands of the episode flow together in the figure of the river.!° 

The phrase “literary economy” beginning the previous paragraph is adopted 
advisedly; Sergio Zatti recalls Rajna’s observation that the second of the tales is 
constructed according to narrative principles of reciprocal gratitude and retributive 
justice: Argia’s revenge against her hypocritical husband, itself made possible by 
Manto’s gratitude for the kindness shown her by Adonio, “compensates” the 
demonstration by the woeful knight that most wives are unfaithful.!! I think one 


7 Orlando furioso 43.32; Ferrara is named at 42.53.4; Mantua is identified at 43.70.8-9. For the 
focus on Mantua and Ferrara, see Marinelli, 88, 98, 161. 

8 Pyle, 169-180 and Benvenuti and Sacchi, 201-207 have demonstrated that the Cefalo departs 
from the tragic genre represented for the late Quattrocento by the Orpheus story, although the 
Orpheus tale remains an explicit influence (cf. 4.177: “questa mi fu pit’ ch’al suo Orfeo 
Euridice”). The Cefalo explicitly avoids both tragedy and comedy (cf. Argomento, 49-51), 
suggesting that it is an instance of the “satirical” genre (Benvenuti and Sacchi, 205). 

Rajna, 589 identified Ariosto’s borrowing of this part of the tale from Boccaccio’s tale of 
Bernabo and Ginevra and of Federigo degli Alberighi and Nastagio degli Onesti. For the two tales 
in contrast with a tendency toward a heightening of the epic and tragic registers in the late cantos 
of the poem (the death of Brandimarte, Ruggiero and Leone), see Moretti, 65-69. 

10 On this “great circle” in Ruggiero’s adventure, see Ascoli, 185-201 (esp. 198) and Zatti, 148. In 
another sense, the Po is a figure for the flow of eloquence, of literature (Ariosto refers, over the 
course of the episode, to Homeric, Virgilian, and Dantean origins in particular): for this figure of 
Tasso’s inspiration in the Gerusalemme liberata, see Quint, 1983: 92-132. 

11 Zatti, 55; Rajna, 571. Thus the tale has the logic of a contrappasso. 


90 Ronald L. Martinez 


can go further and say that the “economic” in the fiscal sense is also a thematic 
concern of the whole episode. The tales narrated to Rinaldo are not only a 
“marriage group” about chastity and jealousy; they are also about the power of 
money. By showing how money corrupts conjugal fidelity, the tales are in one 
sense part of Ariosto’s attack on avarice throughout the poem. But I hope to 
show that Ariosto’s analysis of money goes beyond a conventional denunciation 
of cupidity to analyze how great wealth corrupts the mind, personal relations, 
and the rule of the state.!2 As Moretti notes, the reference to Rinaldo’s usual lack 
of funds, mentioned by Ariosto just as the episode concludes, as the count quite 
exceptionally tips the storytelling boatman — an exemplary vignette urging 
patronage for tellers of tales, perhaps — may be taken as a clue to the whole 
episode. Having been healed of jealousy, Rinaldo is also healed of his traditional 
avarice; the two vices are closely linked in the two tales he is told.!> If Rinaldo’s 
consideration of the test marks the narrative center of his extended episode, the 
thematic center of the episode is outlined in the exordium to canto 43, with the 
narrator’s condemnation, with citation of Virgil and Dante, of the “ingorda fame 
d’avere,” the hunger for gold which dishonors not only women, but also both 
sackers of cities (men of fortitudo, knights like Rinaldo’s host) and sages (men 
of sapientia, like the judge Anselmo) alike. By including men as well as women 
among the victims of avarice, Ariosto generalizes avarice into a universal 
scourge and prepares the narrative reversal of the second tale, in which 
Anselmo’s hypocrisy is exposed.'* Subtler corrosive effects of excessive and 
misplaced liberality, historically a masculine fault, subsequently emerge in the 
tales themselves. Both the anonymous Ferrarese lover of the first tale and 
Mantuan Adonio in the second, like Boccaccio’s Federigo degli Alberighi and 
Nastagio degli Onesti, spend themselves into beggary in their attempts at 
seduction; Anselmo’s wife is in turn endowed with all his wealth to prevent her 
corruption, as if money could fence her around. The Ferrarese lover in the first 
tale spends the treasure of the emperor Tiberius (43.58, 43.75), but the price her 
husband would place on her chastity is higher than that, indeed “quanto oro al 
mondo si possiede” (43.14). These vast sums are embodied in the inestimably 
costly palaces that frame Rinaldo’s episode (cf. 42.73 and 43.132.8, comparing 
the two): the first, housing the fountain of chastity, would exceed the treasure of 
two princes (so that we think immediately of the delizie of the Estensi, of the 


12 For the economic in Ariosto see Moretti, 65-69, and, for Ariosto’s understanding of the Golden 
os as “pre-economic,” Chiampi, 340-50; see also Zatti, 137-49. 

13 Rinaldo’s greed is a feature of Boiardo’s /nnamorato rather than the Furioso, but his poverty 
and rapacity are part of the tradition about him; see Innamorati’s note to Orlando furioso 43.147; 
and Ferrat’s taunts at 2.4.4. 

Compare Horace, Odes 3.16: “Aurum per medios ire satellites / et perrumpere amat saxa 
potentius / ictu fulmineo”; the exemplum of Eriphyle, who betrayed her husband Amphiaraus for a 
gold necklace, follows. Moretti, 69-77 emphasizes the theme of avarice against Santoro, who 
downplays it. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 91 


palaces of the Gonzaga dukes); the second, the palace magically erected by Manto 
the sorceress, might not be bought for all the gold under the sun. The presence 
of vast sums points to the folly of setting a price on chastity or fidelity, moral 
qualities inexpressible as monetary sums, but also hints at the imbalance 
between the rich and powerful and the “privato uom.”!> Virtually unlimited 
wealth, we will see, is the dangerous prerogative of kings and tyrants. 

More systematically, the alabaster fountain in the palace of the woeful 
knight (Orlando furioso 42.73-94), representing eight 16th-century exemplars of 
chastity bearing cornucopias, establishes, if obliquely, the association in courtly 
culture of female chastity with generosity and abundance (castitas and caritas). 
Manifesting belta, castita, and grazia, the eight women expand the classical trio 
of Graces that represent the circulation of gifts and benefits ideally binding 
society.!¢ The ladies and their poets represent specifically that exchange of poetic 
encomium and the lady’s guiderdone or mercede, a reward both economic and, 
usually in sublimated form, erotic. The cornucopias they hold, which Ariosto 
links to the horn of the goat Amalthea who nourished the infant Jove (42.80.1) 
signified for antiquity both generic abundance and the gifts of Fortune: in short, 
wealth.!7 Thus, although the “fecondo canale” flowing from the cornucopias 
may suggest the fertility of the ladies,!® it indicates primarily their patronage of 
poets, especially notable in relation to Elisabetta Gonzaga, Beatrice and Isabella 
d’Este, and Lucrezia Borgia. 

The premiss of the tales, of marriage as a condition in which the wife is 
vulnerable to temptation and the husband to jealousy, is fully implicit in the 
selection of ladies and poets.!? All the women named are married (one is shown 
widowed), but not to the pedestal poets who sing their praises. Thus they share 
in the peculiar tension of married women who suffer to be admired by other men 
without sacrificing their reputation for chastity None of the ladies — except 


15 Cf. 42.73.8: “né a privato uom convenia tanta spesa.” Tiberius, whose wealth is used as a point 
of comparison for both Mantuan and Ferrarese extravagance, was a type of the tyrant; see Stam 
and Partridge, 128-29. 

For the graces in Renaissance thought and iconography, see Wind, 26-35; for grazia as an 
“architectonic” concept for courtly relations of reward and obligation, see Saccone 1983, 45-68. 
The Graces are mentioned as residing in Ferrara at 43.58.7; see also 46.85.1, attending the birth of 
Ippolito. Huffmann, 115-16, notes a reciprocity of power between the poets and patronesses of the 
fountain of chastity. 

Ovid, Fasti 5. 127-28, and Horace, carmen saeculare, 56-60. Mention of Amalthea makes a 
link with the name of Melissa in the first tale, since Melissa was the name of Amalthea’s sister, 
who also fed the infant Jove on milk and honey (see Lactantius, /nstitutes 1.22). Shell 1982, 44 
points out that comucopias are common devices on ancient coins; the comucopia is a classical 
+ pao to the feeding vessel, the Grail, of later medieval romance. 

i Though not all were mothers; Elisabetta Gonzaga’s marriage to Guidobaldo da Montefeltro 
produced no issue. Huffmann, 114, notes that this passage outlines “a web of Este influence” 
because all the women are kin, by blood or marriage, to the Estensi. 

19 For the identifications, see Ariosto, 1975: 730-32; also Casadei 1986: 53-93. 


92 Ronald L. Martinez 


perhaps one — are “donne ingrate,” like Lidia in canto 33; their special grace lies 
precisely in having negotiated the co-ordinate dangers of unchastity and 
ingratitude.”° Of course, the system of circulating gifts and benefits — the order 
symbolized by the graces — instances an idealized form of the seigneural 
economy of the Ferrarese and Mantuan courts, one in which courtier-poets like 
Niccol6d da Correggio and Ludovico Ariosto were thoroughly enmeshed, though 
in distinct ways. Recently, Sergio Zatti has pointed to instances throughout the 
poem referring to compensation, both at the thematic level (exchanges of 
mercede and guiderdone and knight-service) and regarding the poem’s own place 
in the system of obligation and reward obtaining between the courtier and his 
lord, made explicit at the very outset in the third ottava of the poem.”! As every 
reader remembers, Ariosto’s epic is the poet’s payment of his debt to his patron 
Ippolito, but also in turn an illustrious gift to the cardinal, one that would 
enhance his fame: a gift, moreover, that by the poets’ own testimony in the 
Satire, in Capitoli, and in the Lettere, did not produce a satisfactory rejoinder in 
either preferment or money. Pro bono malum, the famous epigraph in the 1516 
edition, has sometimes been taken to refer to the ingratitude of Ariosto’s patrons 
toward his labor.22 Whatever its exact significance, the motto brands the poem 
with the notion of an expected reciprocity that has failed. The topic of the 
unreturned outlay forms part of the broader concern of the poem with ingratitude 
and violation of trust, and places the tales told to Rinaldo in cantos 42-43 
squarely at the heart of Ariosto’s chief thematic concems.” 

In addition to the effigy of Niccolo in the temple of Chastity (42.92.3-4), 
the name of da Correggio is especially in evidence near the conclusion of the 
Furioso: the name appears in the very first place in Ariosto’s valedictory 
greeting to his well-wishing public in 46.3.5 (‘Mamma e Ginevra e I’altre da 
Correggio”) where Niccold’s daughter Beatrice, called “Mamma,” and Ginevra, a 
niece or daughter-in-law, and several other women of his family (five in all) are 
identified. Such mention, along with the adaptation of the Cefalo, makes the end 
of the 1516 Furioso a sustained gesture of homage to Ariosto’s elder 
contemporary in the Este circle. With close ties of patronage and kinship with 
the Milanese, Mantuan, and Ferrarese courts, and estates near Alessandria and 
Parma, Niccolo da Correggio personally summarizes the court culture of the Po 


20 For Lidia’s ingratitude as an exemplary instance of denied mutuality, see Zatti, 139-142. 

21 CF. 1.3.5-6: “quel ch’io vi debbo, posso di parole / pagare solo in parte. . . .” On the poet’s debt, 
see Zatti, 147-48, citing Saccone, 1978, 15 and 1983, 47-49. 

22 For recent discussion, see Saccone, 1975, 201-47; Santoro 1983: 153-157; and Ceserani 1988: 
172-86. 

23 For “ingratitude in virtually every episode of the poem” see Durling, 1965: 167; Ascoli, passim 
but especially 284-304; Zatti, 142 suggests fedeltd as the sole stable exchange value in Ariosto’s 
system: “La fedelta é, nell’ideologia ariostesca, la sola forma positiva e legittima di scambio: patto 
di corrispondenza che vincola al reciproco e celebra il sempre uguale.” Bonifazi, 1975, makes 
infedelta the leading motif of Este-Ariosto relations. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’ s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 93 


valley of an earlier generation (indeed Ariosto associates him, as a poet, with the 
Po, itself a key presence in the two tales of canto 43).4 In Ariosto’s narrative, 
the emphasis on the local noted earlier comes to a focus with Rinaldo’s 
anticipation of the glories of Ferrara (43.56-59, added 1532), including the palace 
of Belvedere; in this connection it may be recalled that Niccolé da Correggio 
probably had a hand in the program of Psyche-frescoes Ercole I had painted in 
Belriguardo, which preceded Alfonso’s Belvedere among Este delizie.* There are 
good reasons why da Correggio might have interested Ariosto beyond the fact 
that he knew him and his family. Ariosto, himself an innovator of the Ferrarese 
stage, surely understood that the presentation of the Cefalo in the ducal palace in 
1487 had marked an epoch in Renaissance theater.2° Both men shared the 
admiration and patronage of some of the same court ladies, such as Isabella 
d’Este and Lucrezia Borgia; and both suffered from hard treatment by their 
patrons after loyal service (da Correggio from Ludovico il Moro, and later from 
Ippolito and Alfonso d’Este).”’ The implicit comparison of Niccold and Ariosto 
himself as members of successive generations in the extended Estensi dependency 
is built into the architecture of the fountain of chastity itself: Niccolo da 
Correggio helps to prop up the ill-starred Beatrice d’Este in seventh position 
among the gracious ladies, immediately contiguous with a single unnamed poet 
and unnamed lady. The anonymous figures were recognized by Michele Catalano 
as referring to Ariosto and Alessandra Benucci, secretly his mistress from 1513 
until 1529, when she became his wife, again secretly.2® The contiguity suggests 
the juxtaposition of da Correggio and Ariosto as courtiers in successive 
generations: although of roughly the same class, it is the differences in rank and 
prestige that stand out: Niccold da Correggio, frequently Boiardo’s companion on 
official cavalcate,2? and for many years the loyal servant and effective and 
experienced counselor of Ercole I; Ariosto, on the other hand, always short of 


24 See 42.92.6-8: “ambi faran tra l’una e l’altra riva / fermare al suon de’ lor soavi plettri / il 
fiume ove sudar gli antiqui elettri.” 

Gundersheimer, 258-61. That the palace of the woeful knight evokes the Gonzaga palace of 
Revere is a traditional gloss; see de Negri, 137 and Reynolds (Ariosto 1975, vol. 2, 730); it might be 
peters to posit a more generic relation of literary to historical palaces. 

© For this event, and its relation to the 1486 performance of the Menechini, see Benvenuti and 
Sacchi, 201-07. As an aristocratic amateur, da Correggio produced plays and entertainments for 
the courts of Este and Gonzaga, anticipating Ariosto’s own dramaturgical activity for the Estensi. 

Da Correggio’s documented role in mediating the breach between Giulio d’Este and his 
brothers Ippolito and Alfonso would also have interested Ariosto. See Ariosto’s first eclogue; 
Arata, 71-77; Bacchelli, 405, 429, 468, 472; and Dionisotti, 327-40. 

28 As Reynolds points out (Ariosto 1975, vol. 2, 731-32), Alessandra’s dress recalls Ariosto’s first 
view of her as he recounts it in the first canzone (vv. 100-01): this is thus a Petrarchan re- 
evocation of the first sight of the lady. 

In a sense, da Correggio, the kinsman, friend, and imitator of Boiardo, takes the place of the 
author of the /nnamorato in the temple of Chastity. For the ambiguous position of Boiardo in 
Ariosto’s poem, see Quint, 1979: 77-91. 


94 Ronald L. Martinez 


money to support his large number of dependents, was relegated to a series of 
minor, even servile duties, and his great poem was ridiculed by its principal 
dedicatee. From these distinct social and economic positions the two men take 
up distinct positions on the question of aristocratic generosity. Niccolo da 
Correggio, like his older contemporary Boiardo, was an independent lord who 
might offer his literary production as a gift to his courtly audience without 
expectation of a cash stipend in return; he can thus distinguish himself from the 
unsavory buying and selling that traspires in his play by offering the work to the 
audience as a gift, free of charge, explicitly declaring that it transcends the 
monetary economy (Cefalo, Argomento, 54: “Io ve la dono, e non per precio 
d’oro”). Ariosto, though more strapped for funds, consigns his work to his 
patron and describes it as the bare minimum of a debt he can never fully repay. 
And rather than distinguishing himself from the action of his tales, Ariosto takes 
pains to include his narrative persona as a correspondent in the erotic and 
economic tangle of the tales told to Rinaldo.*° 

How the relation of Ariosto to Alessandra might itself be implicated in the 
marriage-tales emerges from a rapid comparison of the tales with Ariosto’s fifth 
satire, where he directly discusses the question of choosing a wife. Ariosto’s 
advice in the Satire, readers suggest, may profitably be read in the context of his 
relationship to Alessandra Benucci.*! Of the half-dozen strong parallels with the 
language and situations of Orlando furioso 42-43 and the Cefalo, the most 
striking is the poet’s warning that attractive wives will be tempted to, and some 
will, commit adultery (v. 166: ““Molti la tenteranno” and v. 179: “L’altra, pit 
saggia, si conduce all’opra / secretamente. . . .”). The poet counsels discreet 
surveillance, but cautions that its discovery will provoke the wife’s just disdain 
and resentment (vv. 286-88: “ma studia farlo cautamente, senza / saputa sua; che 
si dorria a ragione / s’in te sentisse questa diffidenza”).*” 

Ariosto had particular reason to see his own predicament in the situation of 
the Cefalo and the novelle narrated to Rinaldo, since he was himself in some 
sense an adulterer, his relationship with Alessandra having begun, according to 


30 The contrast in the “economies” of the Cefalo and the Furioso may also reflect changes in the 
Ferrarese economy under Ercole I, when the city prospered, but also entered a period of deficit 
financing exacerbated by the duke’s vast expenditures. It was under Ercole, Gundersheimer points 
out (204, 283) that the custom of selling state offices, widely practiced in other despotisms, was 
introduced on a large scale; and it was under Ercole (Gundersheimer, 220-25) that the Este shifted 
from the employment as court officials of aristocratic amateurs like Boiardo and Niccolo da 
Correggio to the use of academically trained professionals; Ariosto would presumably have fallen 
midway between these two groups. 

1 For the fifth “Satira” (1519) linked to this episode, see the hints in Poole, 222; also de Negn, 
137, Santoro 1983, 148, and Schiesani, 141. 

2 See also v. 274: “che mostri non fidarti anco riprendo . . .” and compare Orlando furioso 43.93, 
Argia’s resentment that her fidelity is impeached by Anselmo. Ariosto even refers to a “conte 
Rinaldo” (v. 138) his cousin, three times unhappily married, with inevitable allusion to the Rinaldo 
of the Furioso. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’ s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 95 


his own testimony, during St. John’s day in Florence in 1513, before Alessandra 
Benucci became a widow (1515).?? Ariosto himself had made his lady an 
unchaste wife: the story told in the Cefalo, of a husband who tests his wife by 
masquerading as her adulterous lover might thus have resonated strongly with 
Ariosto in 1515 or so. The narrator’s enigmatic reference near the beginning of 
canto 43, “intendimi chi pud, che m’intendo io,” hints at this implication; 
placed at the conclusion of the exordium, describing the universal reach of greed, 
it immediately precedes Rinaldo’s choice, constituting a blush of self- 
incrimination, like Rinaldo’s blush at the shaming of Anselmo at the conclusion 
of the boatman’s story (43.144.3-4), or indeed Anselmo’s blush when his wife 
witnesses his hypocrisy (43.140.6; see also 43.38.1-4). In fact, given that the 
exordium is inserted while Rinaldo is thinking over attempting the test of the 
cup, we might conclude that the narrator is here mulling over the same 
problem.** Finally, the Anselmo story, in which Anselmo proves guilty of an 
infidelity worse than Argia’s, can be seen as a narrative rendition of the narrator’s 
acknowledgement, in the exordia, that it is hypocrisy to reproach others and not 
to consider one’s own folly — the folly being, of course, that of jealous love, 
for throughout the poem the narrator’s service to his lady is the chief explicit 
instance of his participation in the madness depicted in the poem. This self- 
incriminating gesture of the narrator, one of Ariosto’s most typical, illustrates 
Horace’s famous tag: “de te fabula narratur” (Satires 1.1.70). It would seem 
incontestable that, both in the guise of the “figure of the poet” who laments his 
lady’s conventional schivezza and sdegno throughout the poem (and who is, he 
confesses, as mad as his protagonist Orlando), but also as the historical author 
himself, the secret lover and secret husband to Alessandra Benucci, Ariosto is an 
implicit deuteragonist of the marriage-tales told to Rinaldo:** the gesture of 
“bringing it all back home” brings the poem back to its author and his lady. 
What is the meaning of these final, Cefalo-inspired novelle in the poem, that the 
narrator so emphasizes his kinship with his protagonists, with their 
vulnerability to the power of money? 

Looking more closely, the problem in both tales is the commensurability or 
exchange rate between the surrender of chastity and a gift of goods or money: in 
contemporary terminology, the uneasy and dangerous linguistic, symbolic, and 
psychological overlap of courtly mercede (cf. 43.14.2, 37.8, 103.1, 109.7, 
115.8) — the lady’s grant of favors to her lover or admirer — and the 


33 See Ariosto’s canzone “Non so s’io potro ben chiudere in rima” (Ariosto, 1967, 1201) and 
Ceserani, 1966. 
34 Ceserani, 1984, 501 observes that Rinaldo’s joumey down the Po and subsequently to Urbino 
and Rome reiterates Ariosto’s own historical itinerary as a courtier and diplomat. On the narrator’s 
posible identification with unsavory characters of the poem (e.g. Marganorre) see Ascoli, 392. 
See 24.3.1-2: “. . . tu vai /1’altrui mostrando, e non vedi il tuo fallo,” usefully co-ordinated with 
43.144.8: “alla medesma rete fe’ cascallo, / in che cadde ella, ma con minor fallo,” said of 
Anselmo. 


96 Ronald L. Martinez 


meretricious, the merchandising of the lady’s favors for money.*° Like 
Boccaccio’s Filippo Balducci, who brings up his son in rural solitude in the 
attempt to interdict fleshly concupiscence, the father of the woeful knight’s wife 
(born illegitimate of a matron seduced with money) and Anselmo both attempt 
to preserve the chastity of their wives by removing them from commercio 
popular (43.14, 92) — and fail, once the wives are offered sufficient incentives. 
However, the buying of the wives is a far from simple transaction: like 
Ariosto’s lament over the wide extension of avarizia, which annihilates wisdom 
and valor, the selling of virtue is the symptom of a deeper problem reflected in 
Ariosto’s complex panegyrics of the Estensi: the problem of political tyranny 
and its effects. Ariosto knew that the coup d’ état was at the distant or recent 
origin of the seigneural despotisms, which were technically tyrannies, despite 
claims of legitimate investiture by Emperor or Pope in remote ages.*” Ariosto’s 
episode exemplifies how a natural exchange-system based on visible “real goods” 
— the kind of economy of which Plato and Aristotle could have approved — 
fails to resist the power of money.** In the analysis Marc Shell abstracts chiefly 
from Plato and Aristotle, a money economy favors tyranny because money, 
unlike jewels, chattels or real estate, is an invisible form of wealth which can be 
exchanged secretly, without witnesses.*? Such invisible manipulations both 
facilitate and exemplify the action of tyranny, which controls the lives of 
subjects through “invisible” surveillance (e.g. spies and informants); 
economically, tyranny is expressed by a “chrematistic” or profiteering 
mercantilism, and linguistically by sophistry, which merchandises rhetorical 
skill without respect for the truth. Transposing this analytical scheme to 
Ariosto’s poem, the tyranny of money suggests on the one hand the tyranny of 
the signorie — Este, Sforza, or Gonzaga — whose power and wealth permit the 
lord to overbalance the system of duties and rewards with his vassals and 
courtiers; on the other hand the development of a literature of flattery that 


36 For guiderdone and mercede in the larger system of exchange in the poem, see Zatti, 139-40. 
Note the seducers’ formula: the ladies can obtain wealth in exchange for something worth nothing 
at all, their virtue (43.112.8, 138.8); for the question of confusion of spiritual goods like grace and 
charity and the fiscal, see Shell, 1982, 36, 43. The classic treatment is Simmel, 355-94. 

The Este claim to Imperial investiture of their possessions was strong; but their claim to Ferrara, 
a Papal dependency, was the result of a staged coup in 1264 (Gundersheimer, 25-29). The claims 
of the Gonzaga to the lordship of Mantua and that of the Sforza to Milan were still weaker: on 
Milan and the Visconti- Sforza, see now Ianziti, Lubkin, and Robin; on Mantua and the (humbly- 
bom) Gonzaga, see Stam and Partridge, 86-90. 

8 Howard Bloch argues that the 13th-century shift from coined money to “money of account” 
(the new fiduciary instruments of early capitalism) coincided with the diffusion of the Grail topic 
in French romance (cited in Shell, 1982: 40); but as Marc Bloch (1967) pointed out long ago, clear 
transitions from “natural” (e.g. barter) to money or credit economies are not easily found in the 
historical record. Still, Shell’s arguments (1978, 1982) suggest the importance of perceived or 
idealized oppositions between the various forms assumed by value — goods, coins, credit. 

39 Shell, 1978, 11-62 (“The Ring of Gyges”). 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 97 


legitimizes spurious seigneural genealogies and justifies the despotism, a 
literature not much unlike the Renaissance dynastic epic itself.4° 

It is possible here only to outline how a critique of the “economy” of the 
Este despotism might be relevant to Orlando furioso 42-43. Like much else in 
the episode, the problematic of money and gifts in the Ferrarese court is traced 
back to archetypal origins. The emphasis in the cantos on the mythical or 
pseudo-historical origins of Ferrara and Mantua (Manto founded by the sorceress 
Manto, fleeing from destroyed Thebes, founded by Cadmus and the earth-born 
sons of serpent-teeth; 43.11, 79, 97); Ferrara by Trojan, subsequently Paduan 
exiles fleeing from Attila (43.32). Such myths formed part of the stock-in-trade 
of dynastic epic, including the Furioso as well.*! As the Gonzaga derived their 
stock from Jove himself, the Estensi drew their mythic descent not only from 
Hector (Ruggiero’s ancestor) but also from Hercules, the namesake of Ercole 
d’Este, mentioned at 43.59.42 Rinaldo, floating down the Po, anticipates future 
Ferrarese civilization and imagines the fruits of heroic exploit (43.56-59) 
deployed along the shores of the Po, in new Este Golden Age that is compared to 
the garden of the Hesperides, whose golden apples were retrieved, according to 
classical myth, by Hercules;*? but — we recall the lecture of St. John on the 
unreliability of writers and the appetite of despots for flattery — this “golden 
age” might also be thought of a as consequence of Hercules’ opportune piracy in 
stealing the apples from the daughters of Atlas and removing them to Ferrara.*4 
If the flowering of “‘liberali e degni studi” (43.60.8) echoes humanist allegories 
of Hercules’ visit to the garden as an acquisition of wisdom, traditional 


40 For Ariosto’s flattery of the Estensi as part of his courtly duties, see Zatti, 147-49; also Reynolds 
(Ariosto 1975: 16-22); Ascoli argues that Ariosto’s flattery of Ippolito in particular is double- 
edged. Borso and Ercole I d’Este were notoriously susceptible to obsequious flattery; cf. 
Gundersheimer, 127-32; 202-05. 

41 See the Estensi genealogy presented to Bradamante in canto 3.23-62 especially; also 13.59-73; 
35.6-9; 37.1-22, 41.61-67, including the story of the Ateste invested by Charlemagne; and 46.79- 
98, the life of Ippolito d’Este. For poems like the unfinished Borsiad of Tito Vespasiano Strozzi and 
the Ercoleide of Gian Mario Filelfo, see Reichenbach 22, 25; there existed also a Fatiche 
d’Ercole, by Pietro Andrea de’ Bassi (pub. 1473); see Ascoli, 58. 

According to Sabbadino d’Ariento (cited in Gundersheimer, 256), a room in Belriguardo 
contained a mural depicting Hercules; note the double use of Ercole in 43.59. Ipppolito is identified 
as the son of Ercole, “Erculea prole,” in 1.2.1; see Ascoli, 52- 56. Hercules was also important to 
the Gonzaga; Mantegna frescoed the labors of Hercules in the camera picta at castello San 
Giorgio in Mantua. 

Alcina’s and Logistilla’s gardens, versions of that of the Hesperides, are regarded as 
evocations of Alfonso’s Belvedere: see Reynolds (Ariosto 1975:18). 

The prophecies of future Estensi glory in Canto 35.6 contain exact parallels of language with 
43.60-61: the earlier passage is located in the middle of the episode on the moon, which calls 
encomiastic poetry into serious question; see Quint, 1983: 81-92; Ascoli, 1987: 264-304; also Zatti, 
127-169, where this question is situated with respect to the poems’ “economy” of debt and 
compensation. 


98 Ronald L. Martinez 


“historical” decodings of the myth also identify him as a plunderer.** Thus 
Ariosto might at once praise the Este contribution to learning, while reminding 
us with reference to fabulous palaces that the several Este delizie — Beifiore, 
Schifanoia, Belriguardo — represented escalating expenditures that precipitated a 
fiscal crisis, and heavy taxation, under Ercole I d’Este.*® 

The ambiguous Herculean background is more than a question of mythic 
allusion turning on the name of Ercole. For, as Ceserani noted, the several 
references to the “Po cornuto” in canto 32 effectively make Rinaldo’s journey a 
repeated “turn to the right” along a series of forks, or bivia in the river, which 
Ariosto describes repeatedly as “‘horns.”*” Since the choice of virtue and vice at 
the bivium was indelibly associated in the Renaissance with Hercules’s choice at 
the crossroads,** Rinaldo’s itinerary, fluvial and narrative, down the Po valley 
literally emblazons the geography in cantos 42-43 with a Herculean impresa, and 
marks Rinaldo’s choice before the testing cup as a domestic form of the heroic 
choice at the bivium. Ariosto’s permutation on the word for the “horns” of the 
river undercuts the heroic blazon: for, like the unifying effect of the Po itself, 
coursing through the variegated episode of Rinaldo’s journey, Ariosto’s 
permutation on corno runs a gamut from the Cornucopia (42.80) to the corna of 
the river (figuratively, the river’s “horns” of power: 43.32, 53-54, 63) to the 
“cimier di Cornovaglia” (42.100). The “reduction” of the high-serious and the 
focus on domestic we have seen in the episode are effected through Ariosto’s 
variations on this one significant term.49 


In the balance of this paper, I will attempt an analysis of tyranny as emerges 
from Ariosto’s imitation and development of Niccolo da Correggio’s text. The 
focus of this development is the logic by which the chastity of the wife 
succumbs to the temptations of money and impunity: precise components, we 
will see, of tyranny. 


45 For the humanist allegories of Hercules (especially Salutati and Landino) see Ascoli, 52-56. 
The medieval allegorical tradition (e.g. the third Vatican Mythographer) interpreted Hercules’ 
exploit “historically” as the theft of livestock. 

Gundersheimer, 204, 255. That Hercules is, for Herodotus, the ancestor of Midas and Gyges, 
archetypal wealthy tyrants, may also inflect Ariosto’s use of the Herculean myth for the Estensi. 
There are a number of Lydian or Persian references (e.g. Cambyses, Croesus, Monaeses) in the 
Furtoso (Ascoli, 275, who points to possible links between Lidia [Orlando furioso 34.9-43] and the 
egendaty wealth of the Persians). 

4 For the “Po comuto,” see Ceserani, 1984, 500-02, who associates it with the bivio (without 
mentioning Hercules) as a narrative device. 

For this figure in Ariosto’s poem, especially in regard to the journey of Ruggiero on the 

Ey peeni see Ascoli, 1987: 52- 57. 
49 The horned river itself confirms the Herculean reference, since one of Hercules’ exploits was 
the defeat of the River Achelous, Hercules’ rival for Dejanira’s love, and the removal of its hom, 
which became, in an alternative explanation to the hom of Amalthea, a “phallic” hom of plenty 
(Hyginus, ch. 31). 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 99 


The importance of the test of chastity in Ariosto’s tales is underscored by its 
being compared to the temptations of Adam and Christ, and to the trial of 
Christ’s Passion, alluded to by Rinaldo’s refusal of the cup;°° Rinaldo evades the 
melancholy “passion” of his host, who has eaten the fruit of the tree of 
knowledge to his enduring remorse.*! The scriptural references confer both a 
comic exaggeration on the domestic subject of these tales while simultaneously 
insisting on its fundamental importance. Although Melissa mentions the 
testing-cup in the first tale when she suggests to the knight that he test his wife 
(cf. 43.30), there is no actual testing with a cup in the tales themselves: one clue 
to how throroughly Ariosto has metamorphosed his materials. Despite this, the 
temptation of wives with money and other valuables, and most of all Argia’s 
coin-minting dog (the sorceress Manto in disguise) restate the testing function of 
the cup, and retain its suggestion of the traditional cup of faith, the cornucopia, 
and the Grail.°” 

In the tale of Cephalus and its substantial commentary, from Ovid through 
the mythographers, the test of the wife’s chastity is the central and climactic 
event. Although in the Cefalo it occurs in the first act, it is highly elaborated 
and contains much of da Correggio’s original contribution to the story. The 
tradition offers sharply distinct versions of the yielding of Procris: as the 
foregone collapse of always fragile female virtue (Hyginus, Bersuire, Boccaccio 
in the De claris mulieribus), or in the more nuanced accounts of Ovid and the 
Cefalo, the partial exoneration of Procris, and a shift of responsibility for the 
disaster to the self-destructive folly of Cephalus’ tempting of his wife and to the 
effects on the spouses of his previous seduction by Aurora.>? 

Ovid and da Correggio emphasize Procris’ disdain when her husband’s 
entrapment is unmasked; both gallantly reduce the wife’s transgression to a 
minimal moment of hesitation, seized on by the jealous husband as proof of 
intended infidelity.°4 In the Cefalo even this hesitation is explained and in part 
excused: the tempted Procri describes herself as curiously ambivalent, drawn to 
the mysterious merchant but mindful of her pact of fidelity with Cefalo: 


50 Orlando furioso 43.7.2: “che’l tentar qualche volta Idio disdegna” (cf. Luke 4.14); 43.8.1, “. .. 
come Adam, poi che gustd del pomo” (cf. Gen. 2.17); and 43.7.5: “Or questo vin dinanzi mi sia 
tolto”; and Luke 22.42: “. . . transfer calicem istum a me.” 

51 On the refusal of the drink as wise or prudent, see Pool, 222, Ferroni 1975, Santoro, 1976: 112 
and 1983, 142-151; Weaver, 395; Wiggins, 32-37; Casadei 1992: 89-96. 

2 The nappo (also called vaso or vasello) is of fine gold studded with gems (cf. 42.98), 
anticipating some of the corrupting gifts offered by the seducers in the tales. On this cup as the cup 
of faith, and of the legendary iconography of John the Evangelist, see Ascoli, 327, 337. For the 
Holy Grail as a herald of fiduciary instruments, the new “money of account” or credit (a “blank 
check") see Shell, 1990, 44-46; Rajna, 576, invokes the vessels of water tumed to wine at Cana. 

53 Ovid, Met. 7.714-721; 738-39 (“in mea pugno / vulnera . . .”); Anderson, 313-14 points out in 
his notes Ovid’s alterations of Liberalis and Apollodorus, all with the effect of making the tale 
more genteel and minimizing Procris’ guilt. Lavin, 269-70, makes this point of the Cefalo. 

54 Ovid, Met., 7.740: “Muneraque augendo tamen dubitare coegi. . . .” 


100 Ronald L. Martinez 


Qual che tu séi, che cum larga mano 

cum la persona tua l’oro prometti, 

perché te mostri, nelo aspecto, umano, 
voria por fine a toi amorosi effetti. 

Ma condurmi a tale opra é un caso strano, 
benché Amor me abbia gia tra soi subietti 
e tutta gia per te mi sento presa, 

ma far contra il mio Cefal pur mi pesa. 
(1.169-176) 


Some reasons for her ambivalence may be noted in the text: Procri’s husband is 
not metamorphosed (as he is in Ovid and Ariosto) but only masquerading, and 
his offers are calibrated to play upon Procri’s vulnerable points. Alerting the 
reader both to the classicizing ambitions and native Ferrarese origins of the 
Fabula, the gifts offered combine allusion to pagan deities with the magic 
paraphernalia of vernacular Romance: among other gifts, Cefalo offers the ring 
of Juno, which discloses a husband’s infidelities, and a second ring that enforces 
fidelity: these play to Procri’s own suspicions of her husband, who had been 
previously abducted by a goddess.*> From the other side, the disguised Cefalo 
slyly presents gifts that allude to the amours of the Olympians as justification 
for the adultery he proposes. After these precedents, which temper the case 
against Procri, da Correggio has his Cefalo subsequently attribute Procri’s fatal 
hesitation to her penetration of the disguise — she was, Cefalo allows, seduced 
because she was actually responding to her lawful husband.°* The psychology of 
both spouses is plausible and ingenious, and shows da Correggio’s effort, in 
composing a marriage-pageant, to offer a version of Procri more tolerant even 
than Ovid’s. 

In both of the tales for Rinaldo, Ariosto takes over the psychological 
complexity and play of economic and erotic motives in the testing scene of the 
Cefalo, but, in what is perhaps his most radical modification of da Correggio’s 
treatment, makes the wife unambiguously guilty, thus returning to the 
misogynistic versions.>” Still, Ariosto’s departure from the courtly gallantry 
that animates the Cefalo is not primarily a misogynystic gesture. For two 
reasons: first, Ariosto’s account undertakes an investigation of the intertwining 
of economic and erotic motives in the love-request that is utterly serious (and in 
which Ariosto’s persona is, aS we saw, intimately involved); second, Ariosto’s 


55 1.121-22: “un bel sacrato anello / che a riguardarvi ogni cosa si vede . . .” and 126-27: “questo 
altro ha forza a far servar la fede... .” 
56 1191-92: “e son ben certo / che tu mi cognoscisti ancor coperto. . . .” Pleading with the 


offended Procri to retum to him, Cefalo completely reverses the outcome of the testing scene 
aa “Non salvasti il nostro onore / quando scortesemente io te tentai?” 

7 Rajna, 581-82, notes Ariosto’s use of Hyginus, from which the expedient of the homosexual 
offer to the husband is derived. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 101 


account of testing the wife is framed by the historical fall of man and the 
universal fallibility of the human will. Since no virtue, given enough pressure, 
is unassailable, there is an implicit obligation to display reciprocal forgiveness 
and tolerance. 

What exactly “enough pressure” means, however, is the focus of the tales 
and the key to the testing scenes. Though his outcomes differ, Ariosto draws 
three principal elements from the seduction scene in the Cefalo: first, the seducer 
is wealthy and liberal, thus able to offer gifts of enormous value for something 
— the impalpable virtue of chastity — that, as the seducers reiterate, costs 
nothing to give up (cf. 43.112,8, 138,8). In economic terms the seducer’s 
largesse is boundless. Second, the seducer is sexually attractive — in the play as 
the famously handsome (albeit disguised) Cefalo or, in the case of Ariosto’s 
tales, as a long-standing lover of established appeal. Third and decisive, the 
seducer adds to his lavish gifts and beauty two interrelated critical elements: 
coined money, and the promise of impunity through secrecy. Thus in the Cefalo 
the gifts alone, although they include such precious items as the ointment that 
reversed the sex of Tiresias (father of Ariosto’s Manto), do not suffice to move 
Procri; but when the disguised Cefalo offers his wife one hundred gold pieces, 
and a forest tugurio where he and Procri may disport themselves undiscovered, 
she hesitates.°* The power to compel arises from the combination of money and 
impunity: that is, the two ingredients that facilitate a tyranny. In Ariosto’s 
tales, a similar logic emerges: in the first tale, the wife, though moved by rubies 
and the erotic appeal of the Ferrarese knight who had long been her admirer, does 
not consent until given a guarantee of secrecy.°? In the second story, despite 
Argia’s access to her husband’s purse, the little dog overwhelms her scruples 
because it produces the full range of kinds of wealth, from coins to gems and 
gowns; which is to say that it represents the traditional understanding of money 
as the measure and equivalent of all wealth. The little dog not only functions as 
a mint, coining money as readily as it defecates: it is a metaphor of money as 
exchange-value itself.©° Indeed, on both occasions that the dog performs, it 
begins by making money.®! 

As I anticipated, the prolific little dog also picks up the more recondite 
implications of the testing cup: echoing the horns borne by the chaste ladies in 
the previous canto, it is a form of the classical cornucopia, and of the mysterious 


58 See 1.148-150, “te anunzio ultra quel quei don cento onze d’oro. / Qui fora de la terra é un mio 
tugurio / dove alcun non va mai. . . .”; tugurio also appears in the Orlando furioso, 43.132.8 to 
describe the temple of Chastity in relation to Manto’s magic castle. 

Cf. 43.38,7-8: “che mi compiacieria, quando credesse / ch’altra persona mai nol risapesse.” 
60 See Shell, 1978, 49-62 on gold as the “homogenous” value that is like metaphor in being both a 
thing and “in exchange for all things.” Shell makes a similar analysis of the Grail as both hetero- 
and homogeneous with “all things” in 1982, 40-41, 44. Rajna recalls Basile’s asino cacaure in the 
first tale of the Cunto de li cunti. 
61 Cf. 43.110.3, “una marca d’oro”; and 43.114.2: “Facea nascer le doble a diece a diece. .. .” 


102 Ronald L. Martinez 


feeding vessel or Grail of Christian romance: the source of infinite abundance. 
As the origin of wealth, the dog is by definition beyond price, and can therefore 
not be bought with any sum of money; only the grant of a mercede that, because 
it represents the lady’s virtue, is itself beyond price, can match it in value.°? 
Yet, despite the dog’s power, a private audience with the persuasive dog-trainer is 
necessary to bend Argia’s resolution (43.113.8), and the final element in the 
lady’s self-persuasion to abandon her resistance is her hope that her transgression 
will remain secret.“ 

Why then — beyond the needs of psychological plausibility — the 
correlation of money-as-universal measure and secrecy? If the power of money to 
be exchanged secretly represents the power of tyranny, the vulnerability to 
corruption by such power illustrates the fragility of personal probity. This is a 
form of the famous thesis expounded by Glaucon in his attack on the virtue of 
justice in Plato’s Republic. If a putatively just man, Glaucon argues, possessed 
a ring of invisibility like that of Gyges the Lydian, he would (as Gyges did) act 
unjustly, stealing and committing adultery at will.® Put in Plato’s terms, what 
corrupts da Correggio’s Procri and the wives in Ariosto’s novelle is the power to 
commit an injustice with impunity. The ring of Gyges the Lydian to which 
Glaucon refers is patently the forerunner of the rings in the Cefalo that disclose 
adultery and enforce chastity; it is also a likely archetype for the ring of 
Angelica, which both confers invisibility and discloses the invisible, and which 
figures so prominently as a narrative device in the two Orlando epics.© 

Thus the forces levied against chastity in Ariosto’s tales are by definition 
irresistible: not only is mistrusting and tempting the spouse ill-advised and 
perverse in light of the trust that ought to obtain in marriage (at least in 
Ariosto’s terms in the fifth satire), it also emblematizes the fragility of 
economic and human relations based on fair distribution of scarce goods when 
overmatched with limitless “money” and the temptation of complete impunity. 


62 For the comucopia and the Grail, see Shell, 1982, 41-44; the comucopia was often found on 
ancient coins. As Beatrice Reynolds saw (Ariosto 1975: 734-735), the dog’s production of coins, 
done by rising on its hind legs and shaking its body, suggests an abundant sexual power. In this 
sense the dog tropes the “shower of gold” by which Jove impregnated Danaé, another submerged 
myth here; see below. 

These are the terms of Adonio’s negotiation with Argia’s maid, 43.109-112 (note 111.6: “per 
oro no, ch’oro pagar nol puote.”) Ariosto frequently uses the notion of a “price” for the lady’s 
favor (cf. 43.89, 110, 112). 

64 See 43.115.5-6:“...1o sperar ch’alcun mai non lo rapporti, / féro ai casti pensier tal violenzia, / 
ch’ella accettd il bel cane, e per mercede / in braccio e in preda al suo amator si diede.” 

65 Plato, Republic (359a-360a) 

66 For Angelica’s ring, see Boiardo, Orlando innamorato II. 5.30-48; Orlando furioso 8.2.1- 4. The 
Platonic origin (Herodotus’ version of the ring of Gyges is discussed below) of Angelica’s ring has 
been largely overlooked, though Rajna (140) noted the link of the ring to the tradition of the 
heliotrope as the stone of invisibility (Calandrino’s theft-facilitating elitropia in Decameron 3.9, cf. 
Ascoli, 188); a note on the ring by Finucci (275) mentions Gyges. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 —- 103 


By troping as a real economic exchange the action of courtly reciprocity, of the 
mercede that the lady owes to the knight who praises and serves her, the seducer 
constructs a plausible, though sophistical exchange-rate that correlates the 
unlimited wealth of the seducer and the lady’s equally “priceless” favors. With 
these premises, which illustrate the dangers of superimposing an order of gifts 
and “grace” with an economy of money and prices, a sale inevitably results. The 
wives are not the sole victims of the trap, however. 

Although da Correggio elaborates a courteous exoneration of Procri’s 
infidelity, the rest of the drama, after the lovers and spouses are reconciled, might 
seem dominated by Procri’s jealousy of her husband, its causes, consequences, 
and cure: we saw this outcome prepared by her suspicions of Cefalo, which make 
her more vulnerable to seduction. Benvenuti and Sacchi claim that the 
discouragement of the wife’s jealousy remains (as it is in the 1475 Bologna 
Cefalo) the chief “message” of the play in its function as an epithalamium.®’ But 
di Benedetto, echoed by Pyle, observes that the action is also explicitly directed 
at the infidelity of Cefalo.®* The jealousies and infidelities of Cefalo and Procri 
mirror one another, and the epithalamic therapy of the play is directed at the 
banishment of jealousy and infidelity from both husband and wife. 

From this more balanced point of view, Procri’s jealousy, by being strongly 
motivated, is partially excused by Cefalo’s own lingering memories of his 
infidelity with Aurora: I refer of course to Cefalo’s continuing fantasy, as he 
takes his ease during his daily hunt, of embracing the “aura,” or breeze — a 
fantasy so vivid and detailed that Procri’s eventual misconstruction of it is 
virtually inevitable. The topic of Procri’s jealousy and Cefalo’s possible 
infidelity is introduced explicitly in act four by the fante, who attests to Cefalo’s 
apparent chastity (she has herself made him “milli inviti”) but notes that women 
have been secretly betrayed many times before (““Quante sono le donne a chi i 
mariti / rompen la fede, e pur nulla si sente”), a remark that returns in Ariosto’s 
poem as Rinaldo’s tolerant worldly-wisdom upon hearing the tale of the woeful 
knight.® As the fante continues her soliloquy, she provides the background for 
Cefalo’s infidelity by evoking again, now from the husband’s side, the 
Olympian amours previously invoked to help seduce Procri, and recalls to the 
reader how male sexual excursions are routinely authorized in comedy and love- 
elegy by reference to Jove’s erotic exploits.’° 


67 Cefalo 1.23-24 (“E di quanto dolor, quanto tormento, / ogni di fia cagion la gelusia”’), spoken in 
the argomento; also 4.97; 181; 211; and 5.3-4. 

See Diana’s words at 5.77-78: “Tu, Procris, non serai mai pit gielosa / né Cefal fia mai d’altra 
innamorato.” 
69 CF. 43.48-49: “Quanti uomini odi tu, che gia per oro / han traditi padroni e amici loro?. . . Se te 
altretanto avesse ella tentato, / non so se tu pili saldo fossi stato.” For Schiesari, the thrust of the 
episode is the domestication of woman; but the domestication of Rinaldo — the epic hero — and of 
Anselmo seem closer to the focus of Ariosto’s episode. 

Augustine’s denunciation of the scene in Terence’s Eunuchus, where a painting of Jupiter 


104 Ronald L. Martinez 


If the superficial irony of the story of Cephalus (in all its forms) is that 
Procri has nothing but the breeze to be jealous of (4.181), the more profound 
irony is that her jealousy is well-founded indeed, since Cefalo’s “imaginary” 
lover (aura, the “breeze”) to which he daily repairs punningly recalls the goddess 
who once seduced him (Aurora). It just as surely indicates (and here da 
Correggio’s prebembesque Petrarchism is most suggestive) that Cefalo’s pursuit 
of his idée fixe is structured like Petrarch’s idolatrous cultivation of Laura’s 
memory,’! with the phonic image (the word aura, echoing Aurora) evoking his 
original raptus by the goddess, as Petrarch repeatedly evokes his original sight of 
Laura (Canzoniere, sonnet 90). Cefalo’s reiteration of the aura / Aurora 
homonymy is itself Petrarchan, and follows Petrarch’s manipulation of Laura’s 
name as a memorial reflex built into the verbal tissue of the Canzoniere.’” To 
clinch the nexus of associations with the seduction scenes of the Cefalo, 
Cefalo’s imaginary goddess aura is (as in Petrarch) also a punning homonym for 
gold (Lat. auro, It. oro).” If the money that seduces Procri bears the stamp of 
secret tyranny, the aureate memories that seduce Cefalo are also a kind of 
“invisible” wealth hoarded and tasted in secret because locked in the privacy of 
memory, like Petrarch’s solitary meditation on Laura’s image.’* As the 
destructive jealousy and verbal infidelity of Cefalo derive from this original 
encounter with Aurora, his idolatrous cultivation of the name of Aura — da 
Correggio suggests — is the most dangerous of all threats to the marriage of 
true minds Cefalo and Procri had pledged to one another.’ 

The soliloquy of the Circassian servant thus links Cefalo’s psychic 


descending to Danae as a shower of gold abets the lover’s intentions, springs to mind here (City of 
God 2.7). For the Petrarchan version of this topos and its diffusion among Renaissance poets, see 
Barkan, 206-21. 

71 Canzone 127, “Chiare, fresche e dolci acque” echoed, along with madrigal 52, at Cefalo 3.35- 
38; for the idolatry of Laura’s image, see Durling, 1965: 68-72 and 1976: 18-26. 

Petrarch’s poem 5, distributing the syllables of Laureta throughout the poem, refers to the image 
of her name written on his heart (v. 2: “che nel cor mi scrisse Amore’’) as the source and focus of 
the phonetic dispersion (Durling, 1971 and 1976: 11-14). For modulations on Laura, aura, auro 
(and lauro) as the basis of whole compositions, note especially sonnets 194-198, all but one of 
which begin with aura and modulate to related terms (e.g. aura, aureo, etc.); see also 246. Poem 
239, a sestina, begins by identifying Aurora with aura, as in the Cefalo: “La ver l’aurora, che si 
dolce l’aura. . .” (also 223). See Contini, 193- 200. 

3 Ovid has such a series of variations (twelve instances in all, most in final position in the line) on 
Aurora, aura, aures, aurem, oro (from oro,-as, orare), ore (from os, oris) and indeed aurea (of the 
golden tip of Cephalus’ spear, Met. 7. 673); for borrowings of this device in the Cefalo, see Arata, 
173-74. 

Canzoniere 35,1: “solo e pensoso i pit deserti campi. . . .” In poems 227 and 269 the homonymy 

of aura, auro, and oro is thematized by describing Laura as the poet’s golden hoard, his tesoro. 
75 Anderson, 315, commenting on Ovid’s tale, notes that Cephalus and Procris, though husband 
and wife, are also like the pledged erotic lovers of love-elegy — this explicit pledge of sexual fides 
makes their marriage more than a mere legal bond; one reason their union attracts the envy of the 
Gods. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 105 


infidelity with the topic of the power of gold to corrupt: the theme of the wife’s 
seduction with gifts here finds its perfect objective correlative in the reference of 
the fante to the myth of Danaé, to whom Jove arrived (4.27-28: “mutato / in 
pioggio d’oro”) in a shower of gold, a myth interpreted since antiquity (Horace, 
Odes 3.16) and the Middle Ages (Bersuire) as recording a tale of seduction by 
money:’° but these exempla are themselves drawn from Petrarch’s poetic hoard, 
both here and in their earlier use to seduce Procri.’? The images that surround 
and seduce Procri are thus marked as a specifically Petrarchan currency. Let me 
give one further example. 

Amid the routine Petrarchan borrowings of the Cefalo is a clear emphasis on 
the famous adynata or impossibilia that identify the speaker’s hopeless desire in 
the Canzoniere, in sonnet 212 and sestina 239, formulas several times evoked in 
the Cefalo.’* What is more important, the formula has narrative import, since 
the desire to “embrace the breeze” is the precise form of Cefalo’s marital 
infidelity.’? Most strikingly, the whole nexus on embracing the aura is closely 
linked to the proverbial phrase by which Cefalo identifies his own perverse desire 
to test his wife: “Perché cerchi nel giunco il nodo,” also a kind of adynaton.®° 
This nexus is especially significant as it immediately precedes a verse of the 
Cefalo (1.195: “trovato ho quel ch’io non voleva trovare”) that Ariosto four 
times reiterates as the sententia for his episode.’! Not only is Ariosto’s 
intertextual weave with the Petrarchan stratum of the Cefalo one of subtlety and 
nuance, but the nodal point of that intertext is precisely the formulaic reproach 
of the male desire to test the wife. 

It follows that Ariosto’s two tales, like da Correggio’s Cefalo, are as much 
about jealousy — as a diseased state of the mind and imagination — and its root 
in an original male infidelity, as about wifely chastity. We can even say that the 
question of the wife’s chastity is subordinate to the problem of jealousy, for it is 


76 For Danaé in the mythographical tradition and in Petrarch, Titian and Correggio, see Barkan, 
106, 116-17, 189-98, 191-92, and 310-11. 

77 1145-146: “Iove non son, non son Febo o Mercurio, / ch’io mi sappia far cigno o farmi un 
toro!”; note the adaptation of the congedo to Petrarch, Canzoniere 23 (161-63). 

8 Canzoniere 212: “et una cerva errante e fugitiva / caccio con un bue zoppo” (7-8); and sestina 
239, 37: “In rete accolgo l’aura, e’n ghiaccio i fiori.” Compare Cefalo: at 4.44 (“chi caccia con le 
rete i pesci in foce . . .”), of Cefalo’s hunting; at 2.185 (“chi troppo abbraccia spesso stringe il 
vento’’). These all derive from the senhal of the troubadour Amaut Daniel (Petrarch 1972, 273). 
79 See 3. 97-104, beginning with “aura suave” (cf. Canz. 197.1); and 4. 53-56, “Aura mia vene”; 
thus Procri suffers from “gelusia del vento” (4.181). 

The phrase echoes the Plautine “tu cerchi di trovar nel gionco un nodo,” in the Menechini 

(2.35), the volgare version of Plautus’ Menaechmi (for the text, see Benvenuti and Sacchi, 88- 
167), the play produced the year before on the same stage as the Cefalo (perhaps an hommage 
here). 
81 Orlando furioso 42.104, “cercar suaso / quel che poi ritrovar non vorria forse”; and 43.6, 43.47, 
and 43.66 (there is perhaps influence of Ecclus. 3.23-24). The whole passage in which Rinaldo 
chides his host for tempting his wife with gold (43.48.7-8) is one of Ariosto’s closest borrowings 
from the Cefalo (cf. 1.193- 200; not noted by Rajna). 


106 Ronald L. Martinez 


explicit that both wives have resisted previous offers from lovers (cf. 43.34, the 
Ferrarese lover, 43.75, Adonio); they have, in fact, been “tested” once and found 
faithful (like their exemplars, they had “‘chiuso le sbarre’”).82 

The causal effect of male jealousy in precipitating the infidelity of wives is 
subtly brought out by Ariosto’s two tales: and this causation, too, has its 
origins in the special power of the tyrant and its economic roots. In rejecting the 
advances of Melissa, the “wealthy and powerful” Mantuan lady, Rinaldo’s host 
claims to have confidence in his wife, but what he in fact says is that his belief 
in his wife’s fidelity is the basis of his own: 


ch’a dietro ne traea tutte mie voglie 
il conoscermi fida la mia moglie. 
La speme, la credenza, la certezza 
che de la fede di mia moglie avea... 
(43.22.7-8 - 43.23.1-2) 


His faith in his wife has become a possession. The knight trips into the 
traditional etymology of avaro from habeo, suggesting that he is a hoarder of his 
wife’s fidelity: thus it makes sense that in this list of virtues, the place of 
charity is taken by certainty, which is strictly speaking incompatible with faith. 
Reflecting that the wife herself had been removed from commercio umano and 
hoarded by her father out of fear that she would turn out like her mother, the 
woeful knight, who had come into his fortune through his wife in the first place, 
has turned his wife into his hoard: his spying on and temptation of her, disguised 
as her own lover, is the action of a tyrant. 

In this respect Ariosto’s second tale emerges as a version of Herodotus’ tale 
of Gyges the Lydian, analyzed by Shell as the aetiology of a tyranny (Shell, 
1978: 14-21). In Herodotus’ story, Gyges, a shield bearer, is constrained by his 
lord King Candaules to spy upon his wife’s beauty; she discovers the sacrilege, 
and, horrified by her husband’s violation of both her chastity and of Lydian 
sexual norms, she summons Gyges and gives him the choice of killing 
Candaules and marrying her or being killed himself. Thus Candaules’ wilful 
desecration of his own wife’s modesty cuckolds and destroys him, as Cefalo’s 
attempted seduction of his wife ruins his marriage. 

In Shell’s account of tyranny (which reiterates that of Plato and Herodotus) 
the tyrant dominates the citizenry because he is invisible: he can see others while 


82 Ariosto here brings into relief an element found in the Lai du cor (Rajna, 577): the test of the 
cup reveals not only the unchaste fantasies (not necessarily unchaste acts) of wives; it also spills if 
the husband suffers from jealousy, that is, from the fantasy of the wife’s unchastity. 

83 Herodotus, 1.6-14. The Greek text of Herodotus was published by Aldus in 1502, but Lorenzo 
Valla’s Latin translation had been available since 1474; it was the basis for Boiardo’s 
volgarizzamento done for Ercole I d’Este before 1491, although not published until 1533 (Venice; 
Reichenbach, 192-197). 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 = 107 


remaining unseen, a power like that of the ring of Gyges, which makes it 
possible to commit injustices and go unpunished. In Ariosto’s tales, the disguise 
that Melissa provides for the woeful knight works like the ring of Gyges, 
making the husband invisible as he spies on his wife, as he inspects his treasure, 
his hoard, and tests its moral mettle, its “alloy.” In the more complex second 
story, where it is not the husband who attempts the wife’s chastity, Anselmo 
still contributes to Argia’s infidelity by discovering, through astrological 
prediction, her inevitable fall, a discovery which leads him to a lack of 
confidence in her which she notices and resents (“non avea in sua fede fede,” she 
reproaches him). Finally, Anselmo endows his wife with all his wealth, thus 
attempting to buy his wife’s loyalty before a rival can, a gesture that establishes 
her value as merchandise, and thus one that puts her on the market.** Anselmo’s 
use of divination also suggests how jealousy and suspicion derive from the desire 
to see and control the activity of the spouse, even (as in the case of the Lai du 
Cor) to know the spouse’s private thoughts. Such a power to know the intimate 
life of another while remaining invisible oneself is also like the power of the 
ring of Gyges to make the bearer invisible, the power of establishing and 
maintaining a tyranny — a power that, in Shell’s analysis, derives from, and is 
coincident with, the nature of money as “invisible” wealth. 


As we noted at the outset, Niccolo da Correggio, lord of Correggio and other 
holdings in his own right, but also by turns courtier to the Estensi, to the 
Gonzaga, and to Ludovico il Moro, restores the virginal purity of marriage, after 
Cefalo has killed Procri, by resurrecting the bride and beginning all over again. 
As Lavin argued, such a conclusion echoes the generic model of da Correggio’s 
play, the sacra rappresentazione, where the limitless abundance of divine grace 
compensates even for martyrdom.® For da Correggio, given the sufficient power 
of Diana, that is, the sufficient power of the Dukes of Este or the aristocracy in 
general, the marital errors of unchastity and jealousy can be erased: the 
contamination of the wife by money, her reduction to merchandise can be 
reversed. For where the divine is present — so the argument goes — the free gift 
is possible, and an order of grazia can be distinguished from one of merchandise. 
Ariosto, despite, or perhaps because of, his lavish but sometimes ironic 
praise of the Estensi, seems not to share the same confidence in the benign 
intentions of disproportionate wealth and power. In Ariosto’s second tale, the 
marriage of Anselmo and Argia can be reestablished only if the fallibility of both 
partners is made visible and mutually forgiven: transparency, no matter how 


84 Orlando furioso 43.91.4-8, where the reckoning of domestic accounts and of chastity are 
conflated: “‘altro conto saper non ne vo’ poi, / pur che, qual ti lascio or, tu mi ti renda: / pur che, 
come or tu sei, mi sie rimasa, / fa che io non trovi né poder né casa.’” 

Lavin, 269-71. It is thus appropriate that the prologue, announcing the final resolution by a 
deity, echoes Petrarch’s “tarde non fur mai grazie divine,” from Triumphus eternitatis, 13. 


108 Ronald L. Martinez 


humiliating, is essential. Only the perdoni granted by the spouses to each other 
can cancel the powerful doni that have corrupted them.®° But Ariosto’s solution 
is not a return to a golden age before betrayal, before money, before contracts and 
writing. 8? His tale does not even imply the reinstitution of an archaic exchange 
like that symbolized by the exempla of chastity, an order that in historical terms 
might be thought of as returning to the “tempi del Duca Borso,” when Ferrara 
lived within its means.** Rather, the final arrangement between husband and 
wife requires the gamut of monetary and fiduciary instruments and pushes to the 
maximum the conflation of economic and psychological categories: it is first 
expressed in the economic terms of a fair transaction in which giving and 
receiving are equal (43.142.7: “di par l’avere e ’] dar, marito, poni”). Although 
the language here is economic and legal, suggesting that explicit, verifiable 
contracts couched in the terms of Roman law (of which Anselmo, the judge, 
should be an expert) are preferable to the elite feudal system of benefits that 
governs Niccolo da Correggio’s easy largesse with his audience, the notion of 
equity is not as simple and straightforward as it might seem. 

The principle of matching equal advantage with equal outlay or risk is not 
quite adequate to explain the conclusion of the tale of Argia and Anselmo,®? 
given that the moral balances of the two spouses are, at story’s end, far from 
equal: Anselmo’s transgressions include both the intent to have her murdered and 
his more reprehensible failure of chastity, compounded with hypocrisy.?° But 
Argia’s proposal includes waiving the right of justice due to her, and her sacrifice 
of retribution becomes itself the moral capital for reinstituting the marriage. The 
wife allows Anselmo to cancel his moral debt, expressing her forebearance in 
terms of a hypothesis that substantially re-supposes the truth: “poni che siamo 
pari.”?! In economic terms, the difference between Anselmo’s real debt and the 


86 The text of the Cefalo correlates doni with perdoni at 1.162-164 (the gifts tempts Procri; she 
hopes Cefalo will forgive her) and 3.41-43 (Cefalo accepts the “celesti doni” of Diana from 
Procri, and hopes his wife will forgive him); also 2.128-130. Ariosto correlates perdono with 
Argia’s cancelling of Anselmo’s debt of guilt, 43: 142.7-8 (poni, perdoni). 

q Chiampi, 343, oversimplifies in having Ariosto identify the fall into corruption with the institution 
of writing. Note the chrysographic writing of the mottoes in the temple of Chastity, 42.88.1; for 
chrysography as staging the problematic intersection of spiritual and material value see Shell, 
1982, 191-193. 

Compare Shell’s analysis of how Plato attempted to meet the challenge of the money economy 
and its tyranny (1978: 40-48). 

Argia echoes the principles of Bradamante’s judgment in favor of Ullania in the Rocca di 
Tristano, cf. 32.106.1-2: “se guadagni e pérdite non sono / in tutto pari, ingiusto é ogni partito.” On 
the rarity of parity in love, exemplified by Rinaldo and Angelica, see Orlando furioso 2.1-2, and 
Ascoli’s discussion (319-20). 

9 Anselmo’s hypocrisy is recorded with a figure from the Gospels, of the “straw” or festuca — 
the minor fault — the hypocrite sees in others, without seeing the “beam” (trave, trabs) in his own; 
cf. 43.128.3 and Matth. 7.3. 

Ponere in this sense echoes, and compensates for, 43.27.5, where pogniamo refers to the 
doleful knight’s supposition that Melissa’s challenge of his wife’s infidelity might be countenanced. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 109 


equality supposed by his wife — the gift of her grace — functions as the 
collateral, the hypothec that secures the reconciliation of the spouses.?? Thus the 
harmony and peace of the couple is purchased only thanks to Argia’s lavish 
perdono, and only with the help of the imaginary “money of account” that is 
credit — in other words, faith as a pact or bond between the spouses, secured not 
by the gods, but by the signatories. 

Thus it is Argia, far more sinned against than sinning, who bears the burden 
of restoring marital harmony through a forebearance that overpays the debt 
incurred by past tyranny. Only the wife’s free gift can undo the transaction that 
equated an infinite fount of wealth with the value of a wife’s chastity. In an 
economy unbalanced by tyranny, a dose of grace is necessary if moral accounts 
are to come up even. Ariosto’s language suggests that Argia enacts a version of 
the Christian atonement, in which only the innocent lamb of God can pay the 
price for the fault of Adam’s disobedience: but the economy of atonement in the 
Christian mystery (which underlies the sacra rappresentazione and the aristocratic 
economy of the Cefalo) is not reiterated here, but rather transposed to the private, 
domestic sphere, at once deflating it and furnishing a new basis for its value. 

That the solution for Argia and Anselmo, despite its economic and 
psychological clarity, remains to some extent utopian is hinted at by its proven 
failure as a moral example. Indeed, all the exemplary admonitions fail, including 
the temple of Chastity itself: the boatman points out that his master, the woeful 
knight, had forgotten the old story of Argia and Anselmo (43.70.3: “quando 
bisogno, l’ebbe in oblio”), just as his wife had finally disregarded the examples 
sculpted in the fountain of chastity. Will the tales help complete Rinaldo’s 
recovery from the tyranny of jealousy? As Zatti suggests, Rinaldo’s refusal of 
the paragone, of the test, marks a departure from the chivalric code of deciding 
valor by rushing to the judgment of the contest; his adoption of the calculating 
language of the wager (43.66.6: “metter saria uno mille contra uno a gioco”) — 
a decidedly diminished form of trial — for deciding whether to accept the test (or, 
in retrospect, whether he should have or not) might suggest that Rinaldo, like 
Argia and Anselmo, has adopted an enlightened prudence with respect to the 
question of married chastity, and now thinks soberly in terms of an economy of 
rational risks and benefits. But it is not at all clear that Rinaldo’s refusal of the 
cup is ultimately preferable to the follies of Adonio and the doleful knight. 
Indeed, Rinaldo’s refusal of the cup looks more and more like a failure to 
acknowledge the extent of human fallibility: not so much that of Clarice, as his 
own.%3 Ariosto seems to offer two unattractive options: either Rinaldo’s aloof, 
convenient prudenza or the madness of possessive jealousy. 


92 On this concept of the hypothec, and its relation to a logical hypothesis, see Shell, 1979, 44-48. 

3 The “lieve incarco delle coma” (42.100) that Rinaldo refuses to risk obtaining echoes the 
iugum suave Christ offers his followers; note the verbal link to the the giugal nodo (42.71) of 
marriage. 


110 Ronald L. Martinez 


If there is a third option in the episode as a whole, it is suggested by the 
role of Manto. Manto’s reciprocity seems part of a larger system than courtly 
duty and reward: although she aids and abets adultery, she does so not out of 
injured vanity and spite, like Melissa, but out of a tenacious sense of gratitude. 
Her assistance finally works in favor of the marriage-bond, while modifying its 
strictly patriarchal structure. Manto’s shape-changing — she is by turns a 
serpent, a little lap-dog and (probably) an Ethiop as ugly as Aesop — might 
itself be seen as a figure for Ariosto’s transformation of his sources and their 
implicit “economies.”*4 This shape-changing links Manto on the one hand to the 
sophistical function of money as the architectonic measure of all things, into 
which all values can be converted;%° and on the other hand to the narrator 
himself, as Schiesari suggests, insofar as he participates in the folly of his 
characters — and perhaps never more than here, where the poet’s anxieties about 
Alessandra Benucci are covertly staged. Such a figure of the poet as Manto 
(Virgil’s ancestor, after all) would work well with yet another “architectonic” 
measure traditionally closely identified with money: poetic language, or, in 
short, metaphor.?° In this view, the poet’s role is to adapt his persona and his 
poem to all things, to become a universal measure: this includes (as in Pico’s 
fable) descending as well as ascending along the scale of creatures, slithering like 
a snake (along with Manto) as well as flying with the hippogriff. 

If Manto is indeed (and the indeterminacy is important) the Aesop-like 
Ethiopian, she would incorporate three exoteric sources of “wisdom,” probably 
to be understood as paradoxical from the perspective of Christian chivalric 
romance: the traditional Moslem enemy; the immortal fate, normally hostile to 
the official “court” culture;?’? and Aesop, the slave from Asia Minor who 
achieved renown for his shrewd animal fables. A number of features of the 
Renaissance Aesop suggest that Ariosto’s mention of him here is more than 
merely ornamental.?® According to Aulus Gellius (2.2.29) and the medieval 
lives, Aesop was a Phrygian; he takes up the cause of the Samians against 


94 Procri’s fateful gifts of the hunting dog (Laelaps) and the unswerving javelin become, in 
Ariosto’s tales, a little lap-dog that coins money and the cold shaft of jealousy, a trope rather than a 
real spear; cf. 43.39.1, 118.2-3. 
95 Shell, 1978, 37, discusses the Sophists, who by maintaining that wisdom could be bought, made 
money the measure of all things. 

For “formal similarities between metaphorization (which characterizes all language and 
literature) and economic representation and exchange,” see Shell, 1979, 1-10 and 55-57. 
97 Morgana le Fay, Arthur’s sister, is mentioned at 43.28.3-4 as the author of the test of the hom, 
designed to disgrace Guinevere. 

Rinuccio d’Arezzo’s Latin translation of Planudes’ Life of Aesop, including a selection of tales, 
was widely available through the Milanese edition of Bono Accorsi (thus after 1480; Aesopus 1873 
contains the text of Rinuccio’s translation). One- hundred fifty editions of Aesop were published in 
Europe between about 1460 and 1500; Aldo Manuzio’s Greek edition was published (with Latin 
translation) in 1505. Lenaghan, 1967, 1-18, describes the composition of medieval and early 
Renaissance collections. 


De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 = 111 


Lydian Croesus’ tyrannical demands for tribute, and is successful. Moreover, as 
Rajna intuited, the gratitude of the serpent-Manto to Adonio in the second of the 
tales has an Aesopic aspect and resembles several fables attributed to Aesop 
concerning ingratitude and betrayal between man and serpent.?? Since the 
Ethiop’s ugliness is in fact Manto’s disguise, perhaps Ariosto’s view of Aesop 
was like that of Planudes,!° for whom the Phrygian’s deformities were a 
disguise for the wisdom beneath, as if Aesop were a servile and homespun 
version of the Renaissance Platonic commonplace of Socrates as a Silenus, his 
external deformity concealing wisdom within.!°! Precisely because of his 
unsavory features, the figure of Aesop, a slave who outsmarts a tyrant and 
secures his freedom through his own narrative skill, may be a self-deprecating 
expression of Ariosto’s persona and his own economic struggles with his 
patrons, and a logical counterpart to the self-incriminating jealous lover of 
Alessandra Benucci memorialized in the temple of Chastity.!° The identification 
of Ariosto’s persona with Manto, a sorceress, and with Aesop, a deformed and 
sagacious slave, are leaps of the authorial imagination that would have been 
inconceivable for Niccold da Correggio. 


University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 


Works Consulted 


Aesopus. Caxton’s Aesop. Ed. R. T. Lenaghan. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1967. 
. Steinhéwels Asop. Ed. H. Osterley. Tiibingen: L. F. Fues, 1873. 
Arata, Ara. Niccolo da Correggio nella vita letteraria e politica del tempo suo. 
Bologna: Zanichelli,1934. 


99 See Aesopus 1873 (Steinhéwel, which follows the medieval “Romulus” for the first four books): 
1.10; 2.10; 5.4, 5.8. Several of these include sententiae similar to Ariosto’s pro bono malum: “pro 
melle venenum, / pro fructu penam, pro pietate dolum” (1.10, in Phaedrus’ rhyming version); 
“Frequenter reddunt homines mala pro bonis . . .” (5.4). 
100 Ariosto undoubtedly knew his Aesop: e.g. Satire 1.246-61 (also Horace, Epist. 1.7.29-33) and 
4.205-06, invoking the fable of the cock who finds a jewel in the dungheap. This was placed first 
in most medieval and early Renaissance collections of Aesop as a metafable about interpreting 
fables, which, as Horace recalls in his Satires (1.1.69-70) are always about the reader — or the 
teller. 
101 This is relevant to Rinaldo’s suspicion of the testing hom, jewel-studded and golden (43.98.7- 
8), but containing the poison of suspicion: it was said of Aesop that “turpia vasa quandoque 
continent balsamum” (Aesopus, 1873, 33). For Socrates as Silenus, see Plato, Symposium 215a- 
216e; and Erasmus, Silent Alcibiades (first published 1515), in Phillips, 269-296; Socrates was 
himself a translator of Aesop (Phaedo 60b-61c). On the figure of Silenus (used of Orlando himself, 
39-60) and the ambiguities of Ariosto’s serio ludere, see Ascoli, 342-50. 

2 On Aesop as the figurehead for an “Aesopic” writing of political resistance, see Patterson 
1991, esp. 13-43. 


112 Ronald L. Martinez 


Ariosto, Ludovico. Orlando furioso. Ed. and trans. Barbara Reynolds. Penguin Books: 
1975. 2 vols. 
. Orlando furioso. Ed. C. Segre. Milano: Amoldo Mondadori, 1976. 2 vols. 
. Opere. Ed. Giuliano Innamorati. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1967. 
. Lettere. Ed. Angelo Stella. Verona: Amoldo Mondadori, 1965. 
Aristotle. The Nicomachean Ethics. Tr. J. A. K. Thomson. Penguin Books, 1955. 
Ascoli, Albert R. Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony: Conflict and Evasion in the Italian 
Renaissance. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1987. 
Bacchelli, Riccardo. 1931. La congiura di Don Giulio d’Este. Milano: Mondadori, 
1958. 
Barkan, Leonard. The Gods Made Flesh: Metamorphosis and the Pursuit of Paganism. 
New Haven: Yale UP, 1986. 
Benedetto, A. di. “Appunti sull’opera di Niccolé da Correggio.” Giornale storico della 
letteratura italiana 147 (1970): 161-82. 
Bikez, Robert. The Anglo-Norman Text of “Le Lai du Cor.” Ed. C. T. Erickson. 
Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1973. 
Bloch, Marc. “The Problem of Gold in the Middle Ages.” Land and Work in Medieval 
Europe. Trans. J. E. Anderson. Berkeley: U of California P, 1967. 
Boccaccio, Giovanni. Concerning Famous Women. Tr. Guido A. Guarino. New 
Brunswick: Rutgers UP, 1963. 
. Genealogie deorum gentilium libri. Ed. V. Romano. Bari: Laterza, 1951. 2 
vols. 
Boiardo, Matteo Maria. Orlando innamorato. Amorum Libri. Ed. A. Scaglione Torino: 
U.T.E.T. 1963. 2 vols. 
Bonifazi, Neuro. Le lettere infedeli. Roma, Officina, 1975. 
Casadei, Alberto. “Brevi analisi sul fine del primo Furioso.” Studi e problemi di 
critica testuale 44 (1992): 87-100. 
. “L’esordio del canto xlvi del Furioso: strategia compositiva e varianti 
storico-culturali.” /talianistica 15 (1986): 53-93. 
Ceserani, Remo. “Benucci. Alessandra.” Dizionario biografico degli italiani. vol. 8, 
1966. 
. “Due modelli culturali e narrativi nell’Orlando furioso.” Giornale storico 
della letteratura italiana 161 (1984): 481-506. 
. “L’impresa delle api e dei serpenti.” MLN 103 (1988): 172-86. 
Chiampi, James Thomas. “Between Voice and Writing: Ariosto’s Irony According to 
St. John.” Jtalica 60 (1983): 340-50. 
Contini, Gianfranco. “Préhistoire de l’aura de Pétrarque.” Varianti e altra linguistica. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1970. 193-200. 
Correggio, Niccolé da. Opere. Ed. Antonia Tissuti Benvenuti. Bari: Laterza, 1959. 
Dionisotti, Carlo. “Documenti letterari d’una congiura estense.” Civilta moderna 9 
(1937): 327-40. 
Durling, Robert M., ed. and trans. Petrarch’s Lyric Poems. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
1976. 
. “Petrarch’s ‘Giovene donna sotto un verde lauro.”” MLN 86 (1971): 1-20. 
. The Figure of the Poet in Renaissance Epic. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1965. 
Finucci, Valeria. The Lady Vanishes: Subjectivity and Representation in Castiglione 
and Ariosto. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1992. 














De-Cephalizing Rinaldo: Correggio’s Fabula and Furioso 42-43 113 


Herodotus. Trans. A. D. Godley. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1926. 

Horace. Odi e epodi. Ed. and trans. E. Mandruzzato. Milano: Rizzoli, 1985. 

Huffmann, Katharine. “The Court in the Work of Art: Patronage and Poetic Authority 
in the Orlando furioso, canto 42.” Quaderni a’ italianistica 13 (1992): 113-25. 

Hyginus. Fabulae. Ed. H. J. Rose Leyden: A. W. Sijthoff, 1934. 133-34. 

Ianziti, Gary. Humanistic Historiography under the Sforzas: Politics and Propaganda 
in Fifteenth-Century Milan. Oxford: Clarendon P, 1988. 

Internoscia, Donato. “Are There Two Melissas, Both Enchantresses, in the Furioso?” 
Italica 25 (1948): 217-26. 

Kent, F. W. and Patricia Simons, eds. Patronage, Art and Society in Renaissance 
Italy. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1987. 

Lavin, Irving. “Cephalus and Procris: Transformations of an Ovidian Myth.” Journal 
of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes 17 (1954): 260-87. 

Lubkin, Gregory. A Renaissance Court: Milan under Galeazzo Maria Sforza. Berkeley: 
U of California P, 1994. 

Luzio, A. and R. Renier. “Niccolé da Correggio.” Giornale storico delia letteratura 
italiana 21 (1893): 205-64; 22 (1893): 65-119; 35 (1900): 233-35. 

Marinelli, Peter V. Ariosto and Boiardo: The Origins of Orlando furioso. Columbia: U 
of Missouri P, 1987. 

Moretti, Walter. L’ultimo Ariosto. Bologna: Patron, 1977. 

Negri, Renzo. Interpretazione dell’Orlando furioso. Milano: Marzorati, 1971. 

Ovid. Ovid’s Metamorphoses: Books 6-10. Ed. with commentary W. S. Anderson. 
Norman: U of Oklahoma P, 1972. 

Plato. The Collected Dialogues. Ed. Edith Hamilton and Huntington Cairns. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1961. 

Patterson, Annabel. Fables of Power: Aesopian Writing and Political History. 
Durham: Duke UP, 1991. 

Petrarca, Francesco. Canzoniere. Ed. Gianfranco Contini and Daniele Ponchiroli. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1972. 

Phillips, Margaret Mann. The Adages of Erasmus: A Study with Translations. 
Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1964. 

Pool, Franco. Interpretazione dell’Orlando furioso. Firenze: Nuova editrice, 1968. 
221-37, 

Pyle, Cynthia Munro. “Politian’s Orfeo and other Favole mitologiche in the context 
of Late Quattrocento Northern Italy.” Columbia Univ. diss. 1976. 

Quint, David. Origin and Originality in Renaissance Literature: Versions of the 
Source. New Haven: Yale UP, 1983. 92-132. 

Rajna, Pio. Le fonti dell’Orlando furioso. Firenze: Sansoni, 1900. 

Reichenbach, Giulio. Matteo Maria Boiardo. Bologna: Zanichelli,1929. 

Robin, Diana. Filelfo in Milan: Writings. 1451-1477. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1991. 

Saccone, Edoardo. “Grazia, sprezzatura, affettazione in the Courtier.” Castiglione: 
The Ideal and the Real in Renaissance Culture. Ed. R. Hanning and D. Rosand. 
New Haven: Yale UP, 1983. 45-67. 

. Il soggetto del Furioso e altri saggi tra '400 e '500. Napoli: Liguori, 1974. 
161-200. 
. “Trattato e ritratto: l’introduzione al Cortegiano.” MLN 93 (1978): 1-21. 


114 Ronald L. Martinez 


Santoro, Mario. L’anello di Angelica: nuovi saggi ariosteschi. Napoli: Federico ed 

Ardia, 1983. 
. Letture ariostesche. Napoli: Liguori. 1973. 

Schiesari, Juliana. “The Domestication of Woman in Orlando furioso 42 and 43, or A 
Snake is Being Beaten.” Stanford Italian Review 10 (1991): 123-43. 

Scriptores rerum mythicarum latini tres Romae nuper reperti. Ed. G. H. Bode 
Hildesheim: Georg Olms, 1968. 

Shell, Marc. The Economy of Literature. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1978. 

. Money. Language. and Thought: Literary and Philosophical Economies 

from the Medieval to the Modern Era. Berkely: U of California P, 1982. 

Sherberg, Michael. Rinaldo: Character and Intertext in Ariosto and Tasso. Stanford: 
Anma Libri, 1993. 

Simmel, Georg. The Philosophy of Money. Trans. T. Bottomore and D. Frisby. 
London: Routledge. 1978. 355-94. 

Starn, Randolph and Loren Partridge. Arts of Power: Three Halls of State in Italy. 
1300-1600 Berkeley: U of California P, 1992. 

Teatro del Quattrocento: le corti padane. Ed. Antonia Tissoni Benvenuti and Maria Pia 
Mussini Sacchi. Torino: U.T.E.T., 1983. 

Weaver, Elissa. “Lettura deil’intreccio dell’ Orlando furioso: il caso delle tre pazzie 
d’amore.” Strumenti critici 11 (1977): 384-406. 

Wiggins, Peter de Sa. Figures in Ariosto’s Tapestry: Character and Design in the 
Orlando furioso. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1986. 

Wind, Edgar. Pagan Mysteries of the Renaissance. New York: Norton, 1972. 

Zatti, Sergio. J/ Furioso fra epos e romanzo. Lucca: Maria Pacini Facci, 1990. 


Patrick J. Cook 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 





During the very period when Ariosto was writing and revising Orlando furioso, 
the papacy was laboring mightily to recover Rome’s status as umbilicus mundi. 
The most successful result of this effort remains visible today. The ambitions of 
Paul III combined with Michelangelo’s architectural genius to produce the 
renewed Capitol. Above the convex oval pavement evoking the cosmos and 
Achilles’ shield stands an equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius designed to 
assert papal imperium. Charles Stinger summarizes the intended symbolism: 


The succession Alexander-Antonine emperor-Jupiter would have symbolized the 
transmission of world hegemony from the empires of Greece and Rome to the imperium 
of the Roman Church governed by the Farnese Pope. . . . The ancient Romans 
figuratively moved the wnbilicus mundi from Delphi to the Roman Forum, and medieval 
legend trasferred this to the Capitol. Thus the Marcus Aurelius as Kosmokrator-Apollo 
stands at the nodal point of the universe. The locus of power in Renaissance Rome again 
assumed a cosmic perspective. 

(262-64) 


We can appreciate Michelangelo’s accomplishment and at the same time be 
thankful that epic revived at a distance from this center of aspiring power. As he 
reworked the Boiardian material, developing both its imperial and dynastic 
aspects in order to reshape it into something more closely resembling Vergil’s 
prestigious epic, Ariosto inevitably encountered a resistance of his material to 
his form. Temporally, Ferrara’s Este rulers, the dynastic heirs of Ruggiero and 
Bradamante, are the focus of the poem’s epideictic rhetoric and the ultimate 
beneficiaries of its heroic action. Spatially, however, the discrepancy between 
Ferrara’s modest realm and Augustus’s universal empire could only contribute 
to the poem’s irony, no less than does the fortuitous naming of the Este family’s 
own unherculean Ercole. Prevented from imitating Vergil’s carefully unified 
spatio-temporal framework, Ariosto instead intensified his poem’s internal 
generic tensions by retaining Paris’s function as the poem’s romance court 
centering characters’ cycles of emanation and return and at the same time 
developing Carlo’s capital into the poem’s epic “ombilico a Franzia, anzi nel 
core” (XIV.104). Out of such fortuitous tensions and discrepancies rose an 
enormously influential work that would restore epic’s relevance to a world 
growing ever more resistant to the genre’s ideological hegemonism. 


Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


116 Patrick J. Cook 


The relationship of Orlando furioso to the texts and categories of epic and 
romance is no less controversial in our century than it was in Ariosto’s own. 
Patricia Parker, David Quint, and Sergio Zatti, to name only three of the most 
substantial recent examiners of the relationship, disagree about particular points 
as much as they agree that some kind of synthesis or interplay of the two forms 
constitutes the poem’s most fundamental artistic innovation. My own analysis 
will approach the issue in a way that may provide new insight into the nature of 
this generic interaction and into one particular example of the way Ariosto’s 
innovation influenced the innovation of another poet in a very different cultural 
context. Ariosto’s historical moment afforded him mastery of these two generic 
traditions, which, despite their resemblance ‘n many of the outer trappings of the 
heroic quest, were fundamentally opposed in their generic core, and most 
specifically in what Bakhtin calls their chronotope, their genre-defining space- 
time structure.! Let us consider first the epic chronotope systematized and 
established as paradigmatic in the Aeneid. Philip Hardie rightly emphasizes the 
systematic nature of the Aeneid’s fusion of socio-historical urbs and universal 
orbs into a consistent cosmic spatiality. To summarize Hardie’s work in the 
prevalent vocabulary of historians of religion: the setting, action, imagery, and 
even the hyperbolic rhetoric of Vergilian epic are patterned through the epic’s 
focus on Rome as omphalos, the cosmic center that both orders the horizontal 
space around it and establishes a vertical axis mundi as a hierarchical index of 
being and value.” To this we must add the observation, though this has now 
become an almost automatic critical assumption, that epic’s sacred spatiality is 
accompanied by a relentlessly teleological temporality. As Sarah Mack explains, 
in the Aeneid “the task of the present is to move toward the future and become it. 
... The present is never an end in itself; it is merely a step forward, an obstacle 
in the path of something still to come” (3). This valorization of the telos is 
manifest in ways that extend beyond current assumptions about plot closure. On 
a large scale it is manifest in such epic phenomena as etiological myths and the 
ideal of an unbroken, cataloguable dynastic lineage as the measure of heroic 
success and imperial legitimacy. On a small scale it is manifest, perhaps more 
importantly, in the causal-progressive movement of the hero as he overcomes 


1 Bakhtin’s fullest development of the idea of the chronotope occurs in the essay “Forms of Time 
and the Chronotope of the Novel,” in Dialogic Imagination. Although I find the idea of the genre- 
defining chronotope useful, I do not find Bakhtin’s application of the idea to be accurate with respect 
to both epic and romance. Acknowledging as well that all works are to some extent generically 
mixed, I refer in this essay to a text’s generic “dominant,” following the definition of Roman 
Jakobson: “the focussing component of a work of art: it rules, determines and transforms the 
remaining components” (82). 

For various approaches to space and time in epic, see also Fichter, Greene, and DiCesare. The most 
thorough recent work by a historian of religion on sacred space and time is Smith’s To Take Place. 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 117 


obstacles in his drive toward the center, the endpoint of his quest. Both epic’s 
omphalic space and its teleological time are thoroughly rationalized, in an 
Aristotelian sense, relying on a studiously developed framework of spatial 
contiguity and temporal continuity that allows us to follow and assess the action. 
“The first quality of the epic imagination,” Thomas Greene observes, “is 
expansiveness, the impulse to extend its own luminosity in ever widening 
circles” (7). What Greene is describing is an imperialism of rationality, an 
impulse to extend a particular kind of cosmic order ever outward from the 
center. Systematic ordering is evident throughout epic space-time. The rational 
mappability of the setting allows us to determine the hero’s success or failure in 
terms of adherence to the trajectory of his assigned quest. The Iliadic Aeneas 
must not swerve in battle, and the Odyssean Aeneas must not swerve in his 
pilgrimage toward the future Capitol. When he does swerve, a vertical 
intervention returns him to the proper path. Such vertical interventions across 
precisely delineated cosmic planes make the epic “marvelous” a rational one. 
Vergilian epic may generate mystery, ambiguity, and irony, but the causal line 
of the action remains clear, and the subversive meanings that an entire school of 
modern Vergilians (in my view reasonably) finds in the Aeneid can only be seen 
against the background of the epic dominant’s clear, imperially oriented, 
standards of judgment. 

The epic chronotope regularized by Vergil would not have sustained its 
appeal across so many centuries had it not participated in habits of thought 
common to both classical and Judaeo-Christian cultures. The hero’s forward 
drive and the poet’s glorification of his patron, who is the current link in the 
poem’s dynasty and the eventual beneficiary of its action, combine to form a 
teleology compatible with the Christian sense of progress toward salvation. 
Spatially, the Christian earth, centered in holy Jerusalem or papal Rome and 
organized vertically in cosmic planes, easily accommodates the pagan omphalic 
model. In the application of spatial parameters to heroic ethics, the two traditions 
are no less compatible. Biblical injunctions to follow the straight and narrow 
path fit well with Greco-Roman moral geometry; in steadfastly maintaining his 
linear path, the epic hero imitates both Old Testament exemplars and Plato’s 
Phaedrian charioteer, who, as he maintains his straight course despite the 
sideways pull of the passions, is himself an heir to a long-held Greek preference 
for the straight over the crooked. 

Vergilian epic’s chronotopic coherence and compatibility with Christian 
ethics made it an unavoidable model for the aspiring heroic poet of the 
Renaissance. A second heroic model forming part of the Renaissance resources 
of kind inevitably found its way as well into heroic narrative. The tradition of 
long verse narratives initiated in France around the middle of the twelfth 
century, and soon after that labeled “romans” for their use of the vernacular, 
continued into the Renaissance. These romances constitute a distinct generic 
tradition because they too gave rise to a system of substantial chronotopic 


118 Patrick J. Cook 


coherence. Romance evolved from, and in many ways continued to resemble, 
both classical epic and the chanson de geste, which shared a broad range of 
generic features with its classical predecessor. As a result of such extensive 
overlapping among generic categories, the internecine interactions of epic and 
romance generated the cinquecento’s most intense critical quarrels. Romance 
also, like pastoral, distinguished itself from its generic kin through meaningful 
oppositions. The most exploitable set of oppositions derived from the genre’s 
return to the cyclical, sacred temporality that had been replaced in epic’s mythic 
substratum by a rigorous teleology. Instead of the historical or pseudo-historical 
setting of epic, romance creates a more fully fictional and timeless setting 
dependent upon cyclical patterns. More often than not, medieval romances begin 
on a specific feast, such as Easter or Pentecost, a detail that launches the action 
into the cycles of the liturgical and sidereal years, often combining divine 
sanction with the restorative energies of spring. The romance hero may be 
assigned quests to perform, and he may pursue them with all the goal-orientation 
of his epic counterpart, but these quests are subsumed within a larger cyclical 
pattern of repeatability rather than within the relentless teleology demanded by 
Vergilian imperium. Indeed, the romance hero may simply cast himself into the 
currents of adventure, relying upon chance more than directed labor to fulfill his 
heroic mission as knight errant. 

Romance replaces the linear unity of epic’s plots based on such 
overarching, goal-oriented actions as the siege, nostos, pilgrimage, or translatio 
with cyclical patterns of procession and return that open new representational 
possibilities for structures of repetition. For courtly romances, the closest 
relative to classical epic, the court retains a horizontal omphalic function as the 
origin and goal of proceeding and returning actions. But the romance center, 
although it remains a source of ethical and other values, has lost most of the epic 
center’s function as an axis mundi indexing these values on a vertical scale. The 
vertical dimension, in fact, is generally suppressed in romance. In a world of 
horizontal immanence rather than vertical transcendence, gods do not descend as 
part of a causal sequence nudging the hero back onto the straight and narrow 
path. Rather, the romance hero wanders through a landscape — the forest setting 
popularized by Chrétien is symptomatic — in which the marvelous may 
manifest itself at any time, without causal origins or motivations. Instead of 
divine interventions, we witness miracles (effects without causes) and magic of a 
mysterious nature. The romance court’s more tenuous centering is also reflected 
in pervasive moral ambiguities and in the new prominence assigned to the 
individual, whose quest need not be subordinated to a collective project, and 
who receives more sustained attention because of the isolation he experiences on 
his quest and because of the more problematic nature of his self-fashioning. The 
self remains a site of conflict. But if the epic self is shaped by the struggle 
between cosmic and chaotic forces, between the deflecting energies of eros and 
furor and the aligning forces of divine assistance and heroic repression, the 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 119 


oppositions shaping the romance self lack a similar evaluative clarity. Romance 
commonly pits the hero’s familial or societal against his erotic allegiances, but it 
does not assign one of thses unqualified moral superiority. As a result, or more 
precisely, as one correlative feature of romance among many in a coherent 
chronotopic system, romance endings are generally qualified, inconclusive, 
ambiguous.? 


II 


As Orlando furioso begins, the romance action of Boiardo’s Orlando 
innamorato appears to be undergoing metamorphosis into epic action. Orlando 
has just returned with Angelica from his adventures “in India, in Media, in 
Tartaria” (1.5). Not a mere listing of Boiardo’s exotic locales, this series 
emphasizes the fabulous nature of Orlando’s exploits by progressing northward 
toward less familiar locations and by culminating in a region that, as Michael 
Murrin notes, was represented by a blank space in the maps of the Este library 
(226). As they are being selected and ordered into an inversion of epic’s 
hierarchizing of locations upwardly from periphery to center, such romance 
spaces are also being left behind, it would seem, replaced by a precisely located 
and literarily significant point of convergence “sotto i gran monti Pirenei” (1.5), 
the border between Christian and pagan worlds where the Carolingian material 
first took epic form. Carlo, however, does not evince the epic sagacity 
appropriate to a Holy Roman Emperor. Instead of allowing “l’arme” to rule and 
transform “gli amori” (I.1), he confuses generic motivations by offering 
Angelica as the reward for heroic action: 


in premio promettendola a quel d’essi 
ch’in quel conflitto, in quella gran giornata, 
degli infideli pit: copia uccidessi, 

e di sua man prestassi opra pil grata. 


(1.9) 


3 It is the romance forest’s mystery, in large part evidenced through vague geography and missing 
causes and motivations, not infernal associations, that makes it a “perilleuse” location. Bringing to 
medieval romance the Renaissance association of the dark forest with the infemal ignores an 
important ambiguity in medieval literature. See Kohler and Ajam. Sklute relates the moral ambiguity 
of medieval romance to the new Aristotelian epistemology of the thirteenth century. Hanning offers 
explanations of late medieval individualism based on broader social developments, including the 
decline of the socially mobilizing barbarian threat and “a new grasp of Latin as a literary language 
capable of expressing personal reactions in all their ambiguity” (2). Parker’s is the most developed 
argument about the inconclusiveness of romance endings, and about the opposition of epic and 
romance modes. Parker’s work strays into error, in my view, from a failure to recognize epic’s 
systematic assimilation of romance as a subordinate genre. For a provocative look at the Vulgate 
Cycle’s use of digressive and repetitive structures, see Bums. 


120 Patrick J. Cook 


The result is stated with paratactic delicacy: “Contrari ai voti poi furo i successi” 
(1.9). In a series of subtle generic modulations, the poem has moved toward epic 
and then away, shifting focus from exotic Asia to Carlo, “attendato alla 
compagna” (I.5) with the assembled armies of Christendom prepared for the 
great day’s conflict with the infidels, to unseen defeat and the “padiglione 
abbandonato” (I.9) of Angelica and her protector. 

The Christian defeat produces the centrifugal dispersion, characteristic of 
romance beginnings, into the forest landscape that will dominate Cantos I-XIII 
and large sections of Cantos XVIII to XXIX. It is appropriate that the movement 
into this quintessentially romance setting is begun by Angelica’s flight, for it is 
her specialized function to lead Ariosto’s knights into “error.” Since the moral 
and epistemological aspects of this error-errancy have been explored by a 
number of critics, to consider it in further detail would be superfluous here.+ But 
it remains worth noting that Ariosto’s forest, like his heroine, serves a very 
specialized purpose, and one that represents a revision of previous romance 
practice. Knights from Chrétien to Boiardo suffered the ordeals and 
entanglements of the romance forest, but they did not suffer the more systematic 
punishment meted out by Ariosto. 

In Orlando innamorato, which deploys epic features in counterpoint to its 
romance dominant, the moral import of the knights’ dispersion is obscured by 
inconsistent motivation among the pagans. Gradasso’s desire to “vincere e 
disfare / quanto il sol vede e quanto cinge il mare” (O/ 1.1.7) immediately 
establishes an epic context (in counterpoint to the romance context established 
by the Pentecostal gathering of knights), and the fears Boiardo evokes for 
“nostra fede santa” (1.1.7) let the reader know unequivocally the moral alignment 
of this conflict. But Boiardo just as quickly drops all moral pretense when he 
introduces Angelica, sent by her father who, for reasons apparently not worth 
mentioning, wishes to collect heroes in his dungeon: “tutti legati li vol nelle 
mane / re Galifrone, il maledetto cane” (1.1.40). Helpless before their instant 
passion, the knights disperse and drift without significant moral taint eastward 
through forests and other romance settings to Albraca, where Angelica 
alternately titillates and spurns both Christian and pagan knights without regard 
to race, creed, or national origin. Only with the second book, and the second 
invasion, this time by Agramante, does a situation exist in which the knights’ 
collective mission might conflict with individual desire. But despite Boiardo’s 
delight in seeing Orlando “da Amor vinto, al tutto subiugato” (I.1.2), his theme 
never really becomes the conflict betwen “l’arme” and “gli amori,” or between 
any other morally defined polarities. 

Ariosto’s application of an epic dominant to the materials inherited from 
Boiardo is most evident in his imposition of a moral framework upon the 
knights’ flight into the forest, which is condemned in the strongest possible 


4 See, for example, Parker, Came-Ross, Griffin, Donato, Javitch. 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 121 


terms. As the Saracen forces move against Paris, the defense of the city takes on 
apocalyptic overtones. Amidst frantically ringing church bells, the desperate 
prayers of the populace, and young soldiers begging to die for their faith 
(XIV.100-03), the city “ne l’ombilico a Francia” becomes the sacred center to be 
defended at all costs. Both the consequences of defeat and the epic stature of the 
conflict are reinforced by Rodomonte’s singlehanded penetration to the very 
center of the city, where he stands, in a simile combining Christian symbolism 
with Vergil’s description of Pyrrhus at Priam’s threshold, “come uscito di 
tenebre serpente” (XVII.11). The epic elevation of these episodes, clearly 
designed to elicit the contemporary audience’s memory of recent Moslem 
attacks upon the Italian homeland, shows forth through any screen of irony we 
might find superimposed upon them and supports the sharp moral contrast 
between the defending heroes and the erring knights pursuing an Angelica ever- 
withdrawing in the forest. This contrast appears with utmost clarity when we 
compare, as the Vergilian allusions insist that we do, the high heroics of the 
siege scene with Orlando’s restless thoughts before his abandonment of Charles 
and the Christian cause. Paris and “il santo Imperio” (VIII.69) have just been 
saved, for the moment, by intervention from above: 


Il sommo Creator gli occhi rivolse 

al giusto lamentar del vecchio Carlo; 
e con subita pioggia il fuoco tolse: 

né forse uman saper potea smorzarlo. 
Savio chiunque a Dio sempre si volse; 
ch’ altri non poté mai meglio aiutarlo. 
Ben dal devoto re fu conosciuto, 

che si salvo per lo divino aiuto. 
(VIII.70) 


The scene’s spatial terms — the horizontal enclosure of the siege, the repeated 
vocabulary of “turning” upward and downward that describes the proper 
relationship between Creator and creature — are echoed and transformed in the 
microcosmic description that follows: 


La notte Orlando alla noiose piume 

del veloce pensier fa parte assai. 

Or quinci or quindi il volta, or lo rassume 
tutto in un loco, e non |’afferma mai: 
qual d’acqua chiara, il tremolante lume, 
dal sol percossa o da’ notturni rai’ 

per gli ampli tetti va con lungo salto 

a destra et a sinistra, e basso et alto. 
(VII1.71) 


122 Patrick J. Cook 


As D. S. Carne-Ross points out, “the simile in the last four lines is closely 
adapted from Aeneid 8.22-25 where it is used to describe the inner tension in 
Aeneas’ mind as he lies awake contemplating the approaching Italian campaign” 
(224). The parody is multiple: of the honorable Christian’s steadfast resistance; 
of the “cuncta videns” Aeneas’ thorough military preparation as he “omnia 
versat” and yet casts his thoughts high but not low, much less to the sinister left; 
of epic’s vertical and horizontal expansiveness. The heroes’ subsequent dreams 
are also meant to be contrasted: the prophetic visitation by Tiberinus, who 
instructs Aeneas on how to locate the Roman imperial center; and Orlando’s 
Petrarchan nightmare, in which he runs blindly through the stormy forest 
searching desperately “e quindi e quinci,” only to receive a prophecy on the 
futilities of the horizontal plane: “No sperar pit gioirne in terra mai” (VIII.83). 
The implicit condemnation is redoubled when the passage is seen to allude 
forward to Rodomonte’s Turnus-like aristeia, for nothing could be farther from 
the Saracen’s fiery and unswerving incursion into Paris than Orlando’s prone 
and watery vision of trembling moonbeams. 

While Rodomonte’s aristeia is elevating him to the status of foremost epic 
hero in the first half of the Furioso, the relentlessly linear nature of his trajectory 
across the walls and into the city’s heart is strengthening the contrast with the 
errancy of the forest scenes. Although several critics have commented on the 
pervasive use of the verb “girare” in the poem, it appears to have gone unnoticed 
that Ariosto is employing a traditional image of infernal torment. When, for 
example, Ferrat ends up where he had started after a futile search for Angelica, 
or Bradamante searching for Ruggiero finds herself back at the point of 
departure (1.31; XXIII.9), Ariosto is alluding to a tradition with origins in 
Psalms 11:9: “In circuitu impii ambulant.” This is the same kind of futile motion 
Dante observes in the first circle of hell: 


E io, che niguardai, vidi una ’nsegna 
che girando correva tanto ratta, 

che d’ogne posa mi parea indegna; 
(Inferno T11.52-54) 


In the forest and in Atlante’s enchanted palace, which is but a reduced, 
architectural version of the forest, the knights are revealed to be doubly cursed. 
Impii because they are away from the epic action, they nevertheless cannot free 
themselves from the labor that the pius epic hero must endure. 

Ariosto’s conversion of the romance forest from a morally neutral place of 
testing and irruptions of the marvelous into an infernal space invites us to make 
additional Dantean glosses upon his complex interplay of genres. In the terms of 
Inferno I, epic represents the “diritta via” (both Rodomonte’s straight path and 
the morally “right” choice a dritta), while romance represents the “‘selva oscura” 
entered when the straight path is lost or abandoned. The Dantean subtext also 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 123 


suggests that a way can be found back into the light, perhaps even that entering 
the selva is a necessary or at least inevitable step along this tragicomic way. 
Significantly, before they return to full epic stature, the knights who contribute 
most to the Christian cause (excepting the always exceptional Astolfo, whose 
idiosyncratic way of participating in the pattern is to become a tree himself and 
to be first encountered, already the wiser, in that significant form early in the 
poem) are immersed into an intensified, more fully oscura version of the forest. 
Rinaldo’s experience in the forest of Ardennes is the most fully allegorical of the 
series: 


Poi che fu dentro a molte miglia andato 
il paladin pel bosco aventuroso, 

da ville e da castella allontanato, 

ove aspro era pit il luogo e periglioso, 
tutto in un tratto vide il ciel turbato, 
sparito 1] sol tra nuvoli nascoso, 

ed uscir fuor d’una caverna oscura 

un strano mostro in feminil figura. 
(XLII.46) 


To escape this “Furia infernal” (XLII.50), Rinaldo plunges even deeper into the 
forest: 


Nel pit tristo sentier, nel peggior calle 
scorrendo va, nel pit intricato bosco, 
ove ha pili asprezza il balzo, ove la valle 
é pill spinosa, ov’é l’aer pit fosco, 

cosi sperando torsi de la spalle 

quel brutto, abominoso, orrido tésco; 


(XLII.52) 


Just as Vergil arrives to guide Dante, so at Rinaldo’s crisis a knight arrives to 
serve as “guida e duca” “per trarlo fuor de’ luoghi oscuri e bui” (XLII.59). The 
knight is Wrath himself (“Ira”), who by curing Rinaldo of his desire for 
Angelica (67) allows his eventual return to the Christian camp. Epic and 
romance have been overlaid to create a new kind of space. In this paradoxically 
liminal center, far from the epic center and in the dense heart of the forest, 
psychological change comes about through fluidly interchanging epic and 
romance features: the monstrous woman of the cave, who is also a fury risen in 
epic fashion from hell; a knight in shining armor, who is also a celestial guide. 
Bradamante too strays down a path 


che la portd dov’ era spesso e forte, 
dove pit strano e pili solingo il bosco, 
lasciando il sol gia il mondo all’ aer fosco. (XXIII.5) 


124 Patrick J. Cook 


Here she also encounters personified Wrath: 


— L’ira — dicea — m’ha dal mio amor disgiunta: 
almen ci avessi io posta alcuna mira, 

poi ch’avea pur la mala impresa assunta, 

di saper ritornar donde io veniva; 

(XXIII.7) 


The wrath she is lamenting is the fury she evinced in slaying Pinabello. In 
repenting her fury, she begins a process of subordinating her martial inclinations 
to the love that will allow her to achieve the poem’s dynastic marriage to 
Ruggiero. Her eventual partner’s own plunge into the “folto bosco, ove pit 
spesse / l’ombrose frasche e pit intricate vede” (XLV.92) ends when Leo, 
having persuaded the tearful Ruggiero to reveal his identity, renounces his 
claims on Bradamante. Finally, Orlando’s wandering “per mezzo il bosco alla 
piu oscura frasca” (XXIII.124) occurs at the poem’s most pivotal moment, 
between his discovery of Angelica’s “infidelity” and the full onset of his 
madness. Leaving “questo inferno” (XXIII.128) at sunrise, he sheds all emotions 
but “odio, rabbia, ira e furore” (XXIII.129) and begins the destruction of the 
landscape foretold in his dream. In this instance the center of the forest leads 
farther downward into the inferno, but even Orlando’s madness, a more intense 
but otherwise analogous version of a nearly universal love-madness, is a mark of 
his supreme heroic stature, and a necessary step in his renunciation of Angelica 
for a higher, epic calling. 

A story line within the movement of dispersion meriting especially close 
attention to generic interplay is Ruggiero’s voyage to Alcina’s island and back. 
In this remarkably rich sequence, Ariosto superimposes epic and romance 
journeys to create a mythographic palimpsest. Critics have long ackowledged 
the importance of Hercules’s adventures as a mythic subtext. In the fullest 
treatment of the subject, Eduardo Saccone demonstrates that both Orlando and 
Ruggiero are assigned Herculean roles: “l’Ercole del titolo genera due eroi, le 
Cui traiettorie sono insieme analoghe e opposte” (201). Ruggiero’s side of the 
story is of particular relevance to my subject, for the allusions to Hercules begin 
(after the proem’s compliment to the “generosa Erculea prole”) with an 
important geographical reference. Borne aloft on the hippogryph, Ruggiero is 
quickly swept beyond the confines of Europe: 


Lasciato avea di gran spazio distante 
tutta l’Europa, ed era uscito fuore 

per molto spazio il segno che prescritto 
avea gia a’ naviganti Ercole invitto. 
(VI.17) 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 125 


The mythic figure here invoked is of course a favorite of Renaissance humanists: 
the patron of Reason; the hero of peerless virtus whose name was believed to 
signify “gloria,” whose epic “labors,” socially constructive tasks performed in 
the service of King Eurystheus, embody the very notion of epic’s universal 
expansiveness.° G. S. Kirk summarizes the mythographic tradition of the labors, 
whose number and order contain a degree of logical arrangement well suited to 
epic: 


First come the six tasks in the Pelopennese, mostly the disposal or capture of remarkable 
beasts. The second group of six lies outside the Pelopennese and indeed covers the known 
world; the first three take him south, north and east respectively, whereas he goes west in 
two of the last triad, which is strongly concerned with the underworld. 

(184) 


Despite Ruggiero’s trembling heart and lack of control, and despite the fact that 
it is Atlante’s plan to keep his ward from a heroic destiny that is directing the 
hippogryph’s flight, Ruggerio’s epic destiny is here being — comically but 
triumphantly — announced. 

After carrying Ruggiero over the ocean “per linea dritta e senza mai 
piegarsi” (19), the winged steed lapses into a familiar pattern. Sighting Alcina’s 
isle, it descends “con larghe ruote” and “dope un girarsi di gran tondo” it 
deposits the hero in a romance setting (20). As Saccone notes, here Ruggiero 
makes the famous Herculean choice in bivio, and then reenacts Hercules’s 
degrading subjection to Omphale. He can escape only after Melissa, with her 
“annello de la ragion” (VIII.2), her reference to Ruggiero’s Herculean 
upbringing (VII.57), and her admonition to become “un Alessandro, un Iulio, un 
Scipio” (59), has made him see the compound “errors” of his ways. But we must 
wonder why, or rather how, the Herculean Ruggiero is so easily led astry. How 
is it that, despite Astolfo’s warnings and the right choice “a man destra” (VI.60) 
at the crossroads, Ruggiero walks so blindly into the clutches of Alcina? One 
answer is that the palimpsestic landscape, a space suggestive of the refusal of 
Renaissance realities to respond to readable inherited models of conduct, 
obscures and distorts the Herculean itinerary. 

The passing of Hercules’s pillars invokes not only the great etiological hero 
who established them, but also Ruggiero’s most noteworthy predecessor in 
passing beyond them: Ulysses of Inferno XXVI, no longer the hero of epic 
nostos, but of a romance journey away from the center into the unmappable. To 
Dante’s Ulysses, the pillars are markers erected “accid che l’uom pit oltre no si 
metta.” Nevertheless, abandoning (after a pointed reference to Aeneas) the 
“pieta” owed his present family and his progeny, Ulysses sets out “di retro al 


5 The major discussions of the Renaissance Hercules include Panofsky and Galinsky. For Ariosto’s 
use of Hercules, see Saccone and Ascoli. 


126 Patrick J. Cook 


sol,” enters the Atlantic (“de’ remi facemmo ali in al folle volo,/ sempre 
acquistando dal lato mancino”), and upon reaching the antipodal mountain isle is 
destroyed by a “turbo” that spins his ship around (“Tre volte il fé girar con tutte 
l’acque”), plunging the overly ambitious hero and crew to the bottom of the sea. 
Ruggiero’s auspicious journey, we might say, is undermined by the hubristic 
counter-voyage of Ulysses. Although he adheres to the sun’s path along the 
Tropic of Cancer ([V.50) without Ulysses’s sinister deviation to the south (like 
Aeneas’s within the confines of the Mediterranean), he too encounters disaster at 
the antipodes as he spirals down to Alcina’s mountainous isle. Piling irony upon 
irony, Ariosto punishes Ruggiero for abandoning the epic, dynastic 
responsibilities he does not yet know he has by making Atlante send him 
ostensibly out of harm’s way. 

As if the two conflicting journeys were not enough to confuse both 
Ruggiero and our own understanding of epic’s evaluative spatiality here, Ariosto 
compounds the confusion with a third palimpsestic layer. Herculean Ruggiero’s 
choice at the crossroads takes him “al monte” (VI.60); but when the combination 
of monstrous opponents and seductive helpers has coaxed him onto the smooth 
and easy road leading “per la pianura” (60) toward Alcina’s palace, the trek, 
mysteriously, does not grow easier. Ruggiero finds himself climbing once again: 


Alquanto malagevole et aspretta 

per mezzo un bosco presero la via, 

che oltra che sassosa fosse e stretta, 
quasi su dritta alla collina gia. 

Ma poi che furo ascesi in su la vetta, 
usciro in spaziosa prateria, 

dove il pitt bel palazzo e ’] pit’ giocondo 
vider, che mai fosse veduto al mondo. 
(VII.8) 


At the top, he finds “gli angelici sembianti nati in cielo” (15) and a terrestial 
“paradiso” (13). The landscape has been transformed into a setting of counterfeit 
Dantean askesis. To escape such a place Herculean virtus will not suffice. In his 
aspect as Dantean everyman, Ruggiero must cross a “spiaggia erma et aprica” 
(VIII.21) that recalls the desert shores of Inferno I and Purgatorio II, overcome 
Dantean beasts (one of which, in a small but funny allusion, tries to bite him on 
the “piede manco,” VIII.8, to render infirm Dante’s crucial “pié fermo” of 
Inferno 1.30), and, finally, like a spirit being ferrried to purgatory (Purg. 11.27), 
be carried across the water to Logistilla’s haven by an old “galeotto” (X.44).6 
After a refresher course in heroic virtus as Logistilla’s palace, Astolfo remounts 
the hippogryph to “finir tutto il cominciato tondo” (X.70). Equipped with new 


6 Freccero (29-54) thoroughly explains Dante’s use of the left foot as part of his poem’s systematic 
spatiality. 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 7 


knowledge and the ring of reason, a symbol of his own circumnavigation, 
Ruggiero can now become a Herculean hero worthy of the great age of 
exploration, extending epic luminosity into the widest of possible earthly circles: 
the great globe itself. All of this is accomplished, it should be understood, on the 
wings of romance, by means of a circular flight on a fabulous beast imported 
from a land “molto di 1a dagli aghiacciati mari” (IV.18). But this epic 
assimilation of the cyclical on the large scale does not carry over to smaller- 
scale action. Ruggiero’s progress is soon halted as he rescues Angelica, loses the 
ring, and returns to an infernal brand of circling. With Angelica’s disappearance 
Ruggiero “intorno all fontana / brancolando n’andava come cieco” (XI.9). 

Not content with the epic potential realized through Ruggiero’s generically 
mixed circumnavigation, Ariosto balances this early journey with Astolfo’s 
symmetrically placed excursion late in the poem. The two episodes are 
intimately linked, not only through sharing a dense allusiveness that have made 
them the poem’s most discussed episodes, but also in the way they cooperate in 
employing geography in the service of epic expansiveness. The vehicle for 
Astolfo is once again the romance hippogryph, inherited as a kind of reward and 
translatio for freeing Ruggiero from Atlante’s enchanted palace. Like the earlier 
journey, and like the poem as a whole, this journey takes the liminal Pyrenees as 
its point of departure (XXXIII.96). Astolfo, too, passes “la meta che pose / ai 
primi naviganti Ercole invitto” (98), but the very recurrence of this salient detail, 
and perhaps the openly Dantean emphasis on the pillars’ role not as neutral 
““segno” now but as proscribing “meta,” highlight the fact that Astolfo’s overall 
trajectory is perpendicular to that of Ruggiero. His southward crossing of the 
strait avoids the transgressive implications of Ruggiero’s westward crossing and 
introduces no confusing mythographic palimpsest. Moreover, once Astolfo has 
wandered eastward to the Nile, we see that the journey is intended to trace a 
north-to-south line along the Nile to Nubia: “Alla cittaé di Nubia il camin tenne / 
tra Dobada e Coalle in aria a filo” (101). In fact, when projected upon the map of 
the world, the two journeys together trace a system of perpendicular coordinates 
runnning east and west along the Tropic of Cancer and north and south down the 
Nile, corresponding with surprising exactness to that used in the T-O maps, 
which from the sixth century to the Renaissance served Europe as the primary 
emblematic representation of the world.’ When we add to these facts the 
hippogryph’s origin in the exotic far north of the Urals (“nei monti Rifei”), 
Ariosto’s version of the North Pole and conventionally the northern endpoint of 
the meridian defined by the Nile, we see that Ariosto has inscribed his action, 
quite literally, from the top to the bottom of the earth and all the way round. 
Lifted by the soaring imagination of romance, epic expansiveness has covered 
and mapped the world. 

The descent from heaven in Canto XIV was for the archangel Michael an 


7 The best account of the T-O map system remains that by Raymond Beazely. 


128 Patrick J. Cook 


exercise in frustration, and for Ariosto a declaration through both action and 
tone of (to translate Greene’s analysis into my own) the “clear independence of 
Humanist and Christian traditions” (119) of epic verticality. Communication 
between cosmic planes occurs in the world of the Furioso. Indeed, it is quite true 
that the Ineffable Goodness of the poem is a deity “ch’invano / non fu pregata 
mai da cor fedele” (XIV.75), as we have seen in his intervention to save Paris. 
But Michele’s comic difficulties imply that the days of easy epic commerce 
between celestial and earthly planes are gone, that epic’s chronotope must be 
supported and complemented by romance’s if the heroic poem is to represent 
modern reality. One of the most important functions of Astolfo’s journey is to 
strengthen this implication. When he reaches the southernmost point of his 
journey Astolfo is not able, unlike Hercules, to “penetrar la terra fin al centro / e 
le bolgie infernal cercare intorno” (XXXIV.5). With the hippogryph’s aid he can 
reach “alla maggiore altezza de la terra” (XXX VII.24) and taste the apples of 
Eden, certainly no mean feat, but even the divine chariot of Elias will lift him 
only to the “ciel pil: basso” (23), a destination far below that usually reached by 
the cosmic voyagers of literature. It is consistent with the strong contrast 
established here between an exuberant earthly expansion and a carefully limited 
ability to leave the terrestial plane that Astolfo reacts with wonder not at the 
earth’s insignficance but at the moon’s surprising largeness. The conventional 
contemptus mundi of celestial ascent has no place in a poem that at every turn 
both celebrates its emphatically human author’s “alto ingegno” and 
demonstrates the ineluctable errancy of “il giudicio uman.” 

Astolfo’s journey to the moon takes part in the poem’s ultimately decisive, 
if somewhat unsteady, turn toward closure. With the return of Orlando’s wits the 
war is won, the heroes converge upon Paris to be welcomed in a cosmos- 
affirming triumph that positively parodies Rodomonte’s chaotic incursion, and 
the dynastic marriage is arranged. Patricia Parker argues that this closural 
reintroduction of epic structures is specious. Because St. John in the ascent 
episode appears to reduce even the Gospel to the status of a literary fiction, she 
argues, in Ariosto’s radically skeptical vision “the exercise of closure, under the 
sign of a guiding Providence, remains a purely literary tour de force, a 
demonstration that the creator of this ‘varia tela’ knows as well as the Weaver 
Fates (XXXIV.89) how to bring his carefully woven ‘text’ to an end” (52). But 
this reading begins in a contradiction that assigns John the authority to remove 
his own and others’ authority, when in fact John is implicated in a version of the 
“liar’s paradox,” which prevents a liar from convincing us he is lying. Rather 
than ending in radical skepticism, the poem concludes by affirming the 
prudential epistemology and morality of its epic dominant, and at the same time 
acknowledging that the irrational energies represented by the romance 
chronotope can be of value, and perhaps even invaluable. 





The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 129 


iil 


Spenser’s Legend of Holiness, the subject of the remainder of this essay, 
intensifies the the process of generic interplay by which Ariosto revitalized the 
epic genre. As we follow the translatio studii northward to consider the effort to 
“overgo” his predecessors Spenser announced in a letter to Gabriel Harvey 
(Works 9:471), we encounter cultural conditions that at first might seem to invite 
closer adherence to the Vergilian paradigm. An emerging empire expanding 
from a center that was both an unchallenged seat of political power and Europe’s 
most populous city, “the most taut and vigorous national society in Europe” 
(Rowse 1) was a fit subject indeed for a literary form founded on the concept of 
imperium sine fine centered in space and “origined” in time. Unlike the 
Ferrarese poets, who faced an awkward, if ultimately productive, discrepancy 
between the limitations of a small duchy and the universality of Vergilian 
empire, the English poet had no need for the compromising structural maneuver 
of dividing the spatial seat of empire from the temporal origin of the patron’s 
dynasty. But if English nationalism invited epic composition, English 
Protestantism presented considerable challenges in the form of new attitudes 
toward space and time. 

Protestants of every persuasion looked at best with ambivalence upon the 
omphalic cosmology that underlay epic and Catholicism. On the one hand, 
traditional manifestations of sacred spatiality — altars and the anointed priests 
who presided over them, cathedrals with their cosmic architecture, the 
monasteries’ paradisus claustri, the caput mundi at Rome — became primary 
targets of the Reformers’ iconoclasm. On the other hand, at the same time that 
Protestants were denouncing such symptoms of papist ritualism and materialism, 
they were also giving new life to their spiritual equivalents. Attempting to reach 
back across centuries of Catholic corruption to recover the purer practices of the 
early Church, Protestants focused on the Pauline imagery of the individual 
believer and the spiritual community as temple and on the Augustinian imagery 
of pilgrimage as movement toward the celestial city. The writer of Protestant 
epic, inheriting as an essential, defining part of the genre’s tradition a spatiality 
that could easily be seen to support the Catholic world-view, would at the very 
least have to locate his poem’s action in a setting that negotiated the relation 
between the literal and the figurative in new ways. 

Ideological cross-currents were equally treacherous with respect to time. 
The reformer’s diligent approach to active engagement in the world, what we 
now view as the proverbial Protestant “work ethic,” found a natural 
correspondence in epic’s emphasis on ceaseless heroic labor toward a 
predetermined goal. In the Protestant moral vision one must always remain, like 
Redcrosse as he approaches Errour’s den, “resolving forward still to fare” 
(1.1.11). Contrasting Spenser with Shakespeare on this point is instructive. The 
characters of Shakespeare’s festive comedy and romance generally benefit from 


130 Patrick J. Cook 


withdrawal into the green world of cyclical time, where an openness to what the 
moment may bring holds greater potential for lasting benefit than does steadfast 
adherence to a path of predetermined action. Even for Shakespeare’s tragic 
characters, the operation of declining fortune often involves single-minded 
adherence to an established plan. In this sense, we can say that Shakespeare’s 
imagination, in contrast to Spenser’s, remains rooted in the more rural, 
medieval, pre-Reformation reality of ritual and holiday that more sober forces 
were laboring to excise from the reformed commonwealth. However, the 
Protestant poet also faced a considerable obstacle to aligning his moral vision 
with epic’s goal-directed temporality. The important precursors to Protestant 
epic—medieval forms that owed their sense of directed quest to earlier epic 
models, pre-Reformation Christian epics that assimilated Vergilian structures, 
and humanist allegorizations that translated the classical epic quest into terms 
compatible with Christian ethics — all relied upon the related assumptions that 
heroic stature was earned through labor and that the hero’s itinerary proceeded 
from a state of sin to a state of salvation. In asserting that only faith, and not 
good works, was required for salvation, the reformers in effect challenged the 
moral validity of the epic chronotope. If justification is an unmerited, freely 
bestowed act of divine mercy, and if predestination blurs (or in its extreme 
version completely eliminates) the distinction between the state of the elected 
saint’s soul in the world and in the hereafter, then the traditional epic itinerary is 
no longer an adequate imitation of life. Yet, even if central principles of Reform 
logically eliminated the need to earn one’s salvation, Protestants hoping to 
promote a moral society could hardly afford to let this fact imply that good 
works were unnecessary. Richard Hooker, for example, the most influential 
Elizabethan theorizer on justification, simply warned that although “we teach 
that faith alone justifieth . . . we by this speech never meant to exclude either 
hope or charity from being always joined as inseparable mates with faith in the 
man that is justified; or works being added as necessary duties” (I, 59). 
Admonitions against drawing a logical but misleading conclusion might have 
sufficed for the preacher, but for the Protestant poet who would educate his 
audience by portraying the exemplary life, there remained a fundamental 
challenge of reconciling the theological idea of necessary but undirected duties 
with the generic convention of directed heroic labor. 

Developments in figural hermeneutics created challenges and opportunities 
no less momentous. The most significant change in this regard began when 
Reformers promoted the typological method to replace what Luther found 
nonsensical in the medieval exegetical tradition associated with Origen and the 
School of Alexandria. As Barbara Lewalski has demonstrated in several studies 
of Protestant typology, this rejection of earlier allegorical practices as activities 
of human “fancy” and violations of the literal text did not lead to more restrained 
and objective readings of scripture. Rather, the Protestant tendency “to regard 
history as a continuum rather than as two eras of time divided by the Incarnation 


The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 131 


of Christ” (128) encouraged the extension of typological readings beyond the 
conventional pattern, in which an Old Testament type foreshadowed a New 
Testament antitype, to more flexible approaches, and ultimately to a habit of 
thinking in which one continually referred to universal Christian history for 
exemplars, noting similarities and differences. It has long been recognized that 
the poet who named his epic after a “true glorious type” (i.Pr.4.7) of his 
sovereign exploited his culture’s newly intensified typological habits. What has 
not been adequately appreciated is the extent to which Ariosto’s method of 
generic interaction enabled him to do so. 

Epic’s emphasis on unity and inclusiveness, manifest in such diverse 
phenomena as imperial expansion, the unified plot, and the subordination of 
individual action to the collective endeavor, can be seen as well in its 
idealization of the hero’s integritas, a wholeness often represented through the 
symbolic language of armor and the body. Aeneas recoils in horror as he recalls 
the headless corpse of Priam tossed on the Trojan shore; Ariosto’s Mandricardo 
pursues Orlando to complete his collection of Hector’s arms; Tasso’s mystical 
body of crusaders fights ineffectively until its head and right arm act in unison. 
In the first stage of his project for overgoing Ariosto, Spenser translates epic 
integritas into a specifically Protestant ideal. William Nelson points points 
provocatively, though without further explanation, at Spenser’s substantial 
innovation: 


Had Spenser indeed intended to represent the Red Cross Knight in the process of 
attaining a state of grace I can only wonder that he did not show him winning that armor 
of a Christian man piece by piece, the shield of faith in one episode and the breastplace of 
righteousness in another until, fully armed at last, he is equipped to overthrow the dragon. 
But the whole armor of God is already his in the first stanza of the first canto. 

(174-75) 


Preferring to view the knight’s armor as something “which will not be truly his 
until he has earned it” (Berger 20), the conventional wisdom about Book I does 
not acknowledge the significance of the fact that Redcrosse enters the poem 
having already succeeded in attaining the status of a spiritually ennobled 
“patron” of integral wholenss. Clearly, the young and inexperienced knight has 
much to learn, but in fact the poem provides no evidence that he must “earn” his 
salvation, a requirement that would imply salvation by works and place Spenser 
in conflict with a central Protestant doctrine. 

Redcrosse can enter his legend in full armor because he has already 
experienced “justification by faith.” As if he were anticipating modern 
misconceptions about the armor’s symbolism, Spenser offers us an explanatory 
gloss in the Letter to Raleigh. When the “tall clownishe younge man” presents 
himself at court in Cleopolis, he is declaring faithful adherence to all that the 
order of Gloriana’s knights represents. It is important to note that, like the 


132 Patrick J. Cook 


sixteenth-century Protestant who must depend entirely upon God’s mercy for his 
unmerited justification, he does not merit the “boone” that he receives, and that 
he is not required to succeed in his assigned good works before acquiring it. Nor 
is he simply granted, in the conventional romance manner, an adventure meant 
to test his worth, but more precisely “the achievement of any adventure, which 
during the feast should happen” (my emphasis). Given Spenser’s militant 
Protestant viewpoint and his consistently traditional, etymological use of the 
term in his poetry, there can be no doubt that by “achievement” Spenser means 
precisely that: “completion, accomplishment, successful performance” (OED 1). 
To indicate the workings of election, as soon as Redcrosse is granted this 
achievement, Una enters with “the armour of a Christian man specified by St. 
Paul.” He is told that “unlesse that armour which she brought, would serve him” 
(i.e., “fit” him, denoting his elected status), “he could not succeed in that 
enterprise.” And of course the armor does fit him, as we knew from Gloriana’s 
granted boon that it would, and as we know that he is destined to succeed in his 
enterprise, which is at once a specific quest in aid of the distressed Una and the 
allegorical pilgrimage of the Christian life. Redcrosse has been distinguished 
from those other knights who “for want of faith, or guilt of sin” (I.vii.45) have 
revealed themselves as not among the elect and have been slain by the dragon of 
Eden. An elected saint, Redcrosse as a warrior possesses a degree of immunity 
from ultimate failure that was unavailable before the Reformation; the fantastic 
invincibility acquired in romance through magic is now a theologically 
sanctioned reality applicable to extra-literary history, where the nation of the 
elect, by definition, is destined to succeed. Redcrosse must learn his identity as 
England’s patron saint, but the reader sees the red cross of Saint George at the 
moment he enters the poem. 

Redcrosse also overgoes earlier heroes by subsuming their many quests 
within his own as he journeys to an unprecedented number of traditional epic 
centers. Within Spenser’s Platonic world of complicatio and explicatio, 
Redcrosse is subject to unfolding romance repetition and at the same time 
overcomes it by the fact that his repeated journeys also “infold,” for they all are 
but types of the same ideal antitype. When we close Book I and reflect upon its 
hero’s past and future trajectory, we recall that after journeying to Cleopolis the 
knight entered his legend pricking his horse toward Eden, that after numerous 
misadventures he ascended the Mount of Contemplation and gazed upon the 
New Jerusalem, that after continuing on to his destination and completing his 
assigned task he began his return to Cleopolis, from which he will proceed to a 
crusade against the Paynim king, apparently return at some point to Eden, and 
eventually arrive at the same heavenly city that he earlier approached on the 
mount. Spenser, it appears, is conducting an allusive grand tour of epic centers 
available from the continent. In considering Redcrosse’s destinations, it is 
difficult not to recall Dante’s mount of ascesis and its numerous Renaissance 
imitations, Tasso’s Jerusalem, the Eden of the burgeoning tradition of hexameral 





The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 133 


epic, even the contemplative paradise of Landino’s allegorized Aeneid. The 
unitary nature of Redcross’s quest, however, becomes apparent only when we, to 
use the poet’s words from the Letter to Raleigh, gather “the whole intention of 
the conceit,” and “in a handfull gripe all the discourse.” In experienceing the 
“discourse” itself, in immersing ourselves in the confusing world of diachronic 
process that we share with the hero within his own legend, we become trained in 
the establishment of similarities and differences upon which this synchronic 
vision depends. 

Spenser follows Ariosto in linking epic to a morally positive linear 
teleology and romance to cyclical patterns of infernal error. But Spenser 
incorporates the romance chronotope much more finely into the texture of his 
work. The romance settings of the Orlando furioso, although internally 
unmappable, can be located in relation to more orderly regions of epic 
historicity. Spenser locates his poem’s action in a more fluid, indeterminate 
setting in which both readers and characters experience a continuous 
epistemological crisis of an intensity sustained by Ariosto only in the episode 
recounting Ruggiero’s visit to Alcina’s isle. Since St. George’s ultimate success 
is not in doubt, Spenser can redirect our focus toward the very problematic 
process of living correctly in the time before the rewards of election are 
manifest. But ultimate success is perhaps the only thing not in doubt. Like 
Errour’s den, which “Breedes dreadfull doubts” (i.12.4), the larger romance 
setting, for which this liminal setting serves — in the first of many doubt- 
breeding structural confusions — as both entrance and synecdoche, is designed 
to dramatize the new challenges of decentered Protestant existence. The hero’s 
greatest challenges are no longer to defeat the enemy, but to recognize him (or 
her), and to orient himself in a world lacking reliable points of reference. Only 
by continually adding orienting faith unto his irresistible force can he live a life 
of holiness in a world thoroughly contaminated with multiplicity, infernal 
repetition, blurred distinctions. The Protestant hero’s principal labor, in effect, is 
to distinguish between the dritta via and paths that lead nowhere, between epic 
and romance. 

In the proem to Book I, Spenser asserts his poem’s generic identity with 
painstaking thoroughness. He announces that he is leaving behind the “Oaten 
weeds” of pastoral for the epic “trumpets sterne” (Proem 1.4) of Vergilian 
horrentia martis, but in the new, mixed Renaissance manner, for like Ariosto he 
will “sing of Knights and Ladies gentle deeds” (1.5). Nor will he fail to satisfy 
the various requirements attached to epic by theorists and practitioners in 
Ariosto’s wake. It will be an elevated poem directed at the Muse’s “learned 
throng” (1.8), and “moralized” (1.9) through the didactic play of interacting 
generic features. Even without the proem’s preparation, the reader would have 
no trouble detecting epic tonalities in the opening scene of canto i. The in 
medias res beginning reveals the knight pricking toward his goal with 
commendable rectilinearity upon the plain. Una’s background economically 


134 Patrick J. Cook 
introduces the familiar ideas of dynastic succession and universal empire: 


And by descent from Royall lynage came 

Of ancient Kings and Queenes, that had of yore 
Their scepters stretched from East to Western shore, 
And all the world in their subjection held. 

(5.3-6) 


The tempest of “angry Jove” promptly introduces epic verticality, and directs us 
allusively to Vergil’s divinely initiated storms. Given this compact set of generic 
references, even the casually informed reader will not fail to suspect that within 
the nearby shady grove lies the labyrinth of romance error. 

The reader can also only expect that in vanquishing the monster within the 
hero will free himself from the maze of infernal romance and resume the path of 
righteousness. Ariosto’s series of scenes “‘per mezzo il bosco” certainly supports 
this expectation. Closely following the Ariostan pattern, Redcrosse’s combat 
with personified Errour “amid the thickest woods” (11.7) ends with the knight 
apparently resuming his linear progress along the dritta via: 


Then mounted he upon his Steede againe, 

And with the Lady backward sought to wend; 
That path he kept, which beaten was most plaine, 
Ne ever would to any by-way bend, 

But still did follow one unto the end, 

The which at last out of the wood them brought. 
So forward on his way (with God to frend) 

He passed forth, and new adventure sought. 
Long way he travelled, before he heard of ought. 
(1.28) 


The stanza’s last two lines, however, should give us pause. Has Redcrosse 
forgotten the “great adventure” (3.1) assigned him by Gloriana and gone off in 
search of a new one? Has he given up the unitary epic quest to become a 
romance knight errant? Does he travel long before he hears not merely of aught, 
but of “ought,” the moral obligation he assumed at the court of the Faerie 
Queene? The preceding stanza may contain an answer: 


His ladie seeing all, that chaunst, from farre 
Approcht in hast to greet his victorie, 

And said, Faire knight, borne under happy starre, 
Who see your vanquisht foes before you lye: 
Well worthy be you of that Armorie, 

Wherein ye have great glory wonne this day, 
And proov’d your strength on a strong enimie, 
Your first adventure: many such I pray, 





The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 135 


And henceforth ever wish, that like succeed it may. 
(i.27) 


Exploiting the secret wit of his archaic syntax, Spenser has made the meaning of 
Una’s wish dangerously obscure. The theologically soundest reading would have 
Una wishing that many such knights succeed in the way hers has, that the 
success of this miles be repeated by all who put on the armor of Christ. The 
stanza as a whole lends considerable support to this reading. Since no less than 
eight pronouns or possessive adjectives preceding Una’s wish refer to 
Redcrosse, emphasizing, as Hamilton explains, this “Knight’s worthiness to 
wear the armour of Christ,” he is a likely referent for “such” in line 8. A more 
natural way of reading, which assigns priority to the nearest logical antecedent— 
and which, significantly, reflects the tendency of natural language to inscribe 
within its syntactical patterns our dependence on temporal sequence—would 
understand “such” to refer to “adventure,” and would have Una wishing either 
that Redcrosse succeed in the many adventures that he will face, or that many 
adventures “succeed” — i.e., follow — his first. The first of the two more 
natural readings is morally unexceptionable, for it simply assumes that life in 
our fallen world can be represented, accurately if unfortunately, as a series of 
adventures. The second, however, has the maiden whose name signifies unity in 
a variety of contexts, including epic’s Aristotelian unity of action, actually 
advocating a form of fallen multiplicity that conflicts with her theological and 
generic significance. Redcrosse’s desire for “new adventure” suggests that this 
last possibility, unfortunately, is the one he hears. 

Accordingly, Redcrosse asks the first inhabitant of Faerie Land he meets, 
Archimago disguised as a devout hermit, where he might find the “straunge 
adventures” (30.4) that form the knight errant’s vocation. Ironically, despite his 
wicked intentions (or is the clever enchanter supporting his facade of holiness by 
giving the knight precisely the advice he needs?), Archimago directs him away 
from plural adventures and toward the “straunge man . . . That wasteth all this 
countrey far and neare” (31.3-4), the goal of his assigned “great adventure.” But 
despite correct advice, despite the presence of Una, despite his defeat of Errour, 
Redcrosse seems condemned to err. The problem, I propose, is that the knight 
inhabits a new kind of narrative designed to dramatize the post-Reformation 
challenges of living without the comforting certainties of priestly authority. 
Beneath Ariosto’s irony there remains a coherent universe ordered by stable 
categories that facilitiate moral judgment, at least a good part of the time. The 
pervasiveness of the Hercules in bivio theme in Orlando furioso confirms that 
alternatives can be defined and prudent choices can be made The central forest 
scenes on which the Errour episode is modelled occur within story lines ordered 
by a familiar causality; they are scenes of anagnorisis and peripety in a 
comprehensible tragicomic plot. Hercules is no less prominent in the Faerie 
Queene, but the bivium is conspicuously absent, for an emblem of prudential 


136 Patrick J. Cook 


choice between seductive evil and a good requiring repression for eventual 
reward is far too logical to describe the dilemmas confronting the new Protestant 
hero. In retrospect, we see that the straight way out of Errour’s wood was not 
really the true way, but the multitude’s proverbial erring “broad high way that 
led, / All bare through people’s feet, which thither traveiled” (iv.2.8-9) to the 
House of Pride. The ostensibly “forward” (28.7) motion resumed on returning to 
the plain, therefore, remained in fact the “backward” (28.2) motion of the 
knight’s departure. Redcrosse has entered a world of apparently hopeless 
directional paradox best described by Despair himself: “For he, that once hath 
missed the right way, / The further he doth goe, the further he doth stray 
(ix.43.8-9). 

Spenser sustains the fall of the patron of “wholeness” into perplexing 
multiplicity by making the relation of both part to part and part to whole a 
problem requiring “endlesse worke.”8 Pushing Ariosto’s method of disposition 
to a new extreme, he overlays his epic to an unprecedented degree with romance 
chronotopic effects. Diachronic principles of progress and causality remain at 
work in the narrative, but they are systematically countered and confused by the 
synchronic operation of establishing similarities and differences between scenes 
linked extensively by repetition. The Errour episode, predictably, launches us 
efficiently into these narrative cross-currents. By locating the episode at the 
poem’s beginning rather than imitating Ariosto’s use of similar scenes as central 
turning-points and by undercutting the sense of causality that might explain the 
characters’ progress into the subsequent episodes, Spenser is creating a radically 
new kind of narrative organization. The Errour episode serves as the first step in 
the hero’s progress toward Eden, but it does so ironically, since it actually leads 
him in the other direction. It also serves as a type of the scenes to follow, which 
are connected to it and to one another by a figural principle of narrative 
succession coexisting with but often eclipsing causal-progressive succession. 

Our ability to read this new kind of narrative is challenged and exercised as 
the knight and lady proceed from the wandering wood into a setting at once very 
similar and dissimilar, where they encounter another familiar instrument of 
romance intrusion into Renaissance epic: the magician. Spenser revises tradition 
by demystifying the magician’s mysteries, using the epic device of crossing 
cosmic planes to expose ludicrously complex machinery of sprights and infernal 
powers. This adherence to a burlesquely rationalized causality characterizes the 
entire episode, as the wily deceiver first instills confidence in his victims, 
carrying his pretext of piety, as we have seen, even to the point of sagely 
diagnosing Redcrosse’s condition and offering a genuine remedy, then moving 
the victims into place, activating the machinery, and assaulting the knight with a 


8 Tam appropriating Goldberg’s appropriation of this Spenserian phrase for the title of his book on 
the Faerie Queene. Although I am here approaching the poem from a different direction, I believe 
that Goldberg’s description of the reader's endless rewriting is compatible with my own. 





The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 137 


series of increasingly effective deceptions until his plans are accomplished. If, 
encouraged by the episode’s atmosphere of cause and effect, we look back 
seeking to understand why, even after defeating Errour, the knight remains 
susceptible to error, grounds can be discovered for linking the two episodes 
causally. Perhaps the pride of victory makes him overconfident in his own 
judgment, moral superiority, and self-sufficiency. But such diachronic 
connections remain more tenuous than the connections available through 
synchronic figural analysis. Most obviously, comparison suggests that 
Redcrosse, as he will continue to do, reenacts his earlier experience by again 
battling error, although this time he loses. To succeed, he again needs but to 
follow Una’s advice to “add faith unto your force” (i.19.3), faith in his 
companion this time, who is nothing less than Truth and Fidelity itself. The pair 
has again entered a setting cut off from heaven’s light, as the false Una implies 
when she blames her lust on “the hidden cruell fate / And mightie causes 
wrought in heaven above” (51.2-3). Noticing that the false Una suspiciously 
reverses direction from the earlier blocking of descending rays, we might expect 
that similar reversals will again undermine the knight’s judgment, despite the 
episode’s elaborate causality. Such proves to be the case when the false Una 
blatantly revises her history: 


Your owne deare sake forst me at first to leave 

My father’s kingdome, There she stopt with teares; 
Her swollen hart her speech seemed to bereave, 
And then again begun, My weaker years 

Captiv’d to fortune and frayle worldly feares, 

Fly to your faith for succour and sure ayde. 
(52.1-6) 


“In effect,” A. C. Hamilton notes here in his edition of the Faerie Queene, “‘she 
inverts his role as dragon killer and identifies him with the dragon” (43). 
Consistent with her new identity as a romance heroine afflicted with courtly 
love-sickness, she is also attempting to recast the epic “great adventure” as a 
typical romance scenario by implying that Redcrosse is the reason for motion 
away from the center whose power he would oppose and disrupt, and by 
invoking the unresolved conflict of familial and erotic allegiances that 
constitutes one of romance’s defining features. Unfortunately, the situation is 
also so dissimilar to the combat with Errour that Una’s advice can no longer be 
applied. Left with only force to apply (and from this he is restrained by 
Archimago), Redcrosse reverts to the dwarf’s earlier advice (cf. 1.13.8-9) and 
flees from the scene of error. 

The pattern continues as the legend proceeds. The Apollonian “son of day” 
(v. 25) encounters a series of characters related one to another primarily through 
their familial ties to and associations with Night and the underworld. Running 
counter to this emphatic opposition is Spenser’s careful blurring of the 


138 Patrick J. Cook 


distinction between the knight and his foes, a technique found by a number of 
critics to be a distinctive feature of this legend’s combats. Individually and in 
combination, episode after episode leads us into an epistemological impasse and 
wamis us against presuming that our categories are adequate to the job of making 
crucial distinctions. A nadir is finally reached at the cave of despair. There Una 
rescues her knight through the simple expedient of reminding him that he is one 
of the elect: “Why shoulds’t thou then despair, that chosen art?” (53.5). Unlike 
Ariosto’s heroes, who return to a familiar epic world after their encounters in the 
middle of the forest, Redcrosse now learns that he must in effect create his own 
generic alternative to the infernally repetitive world through which he has 
progressed without truly progressing. During his stay at the House of Holiness 
he receives ministrations from a host of moral agents. Among these it is Charissa 
who is given special prominence. Fidelia and Speranza, like faith and hope in 
the preceding cantos, help the knight to regain his perfect integritas, but after 
their cure he quickly lapses into an unheroic contempt of the world, and even 
reverts to despair: 


The faithfull knight now grew in litle space, 

By hearing her, and by her sisters lore, 

To such perfection of all heavenly grace, 

That wretched world he gan for to abhor, 

And mortall life gan loath, as thing forlore, 
Greev’d with remembrance of his wicked wayes, 
And prickt with anguish of his sinnes so sore, 
That he desirde to end his wretched dayes: 

So much the dart of sinfull guilt the soul dismayes. 
(21) 


Mediating between harsh Penance and the gentler guidance of Mercy, Charity, it 
seems, is Spenser’s solution to the Protestant dilemma of good works, and to the 
Protestant epic poet’s challenge of reconciling undirected duties with the generic 
convention of directed labor. The whole process culminates in a definition of the 
holy and heroic life that echoes the earlier cure, but with an important 
difference: 


Shortly therin so perfect he became, 

That from the first unto the last degree, 

His mortal life he learned had to frame 

In holy righteousnesse, without rebuke or blame. 
(45.6-9) 


Hamilton notes that here “for the first and only time the Knight is linked directly 
with the virtue of Holiness, which is not an inner moral state but an active virtue 
displayed in acts of charity” (138). This passage, together with its negative type 





The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 139 


in Despair’s urging Redcrosse not to draw his days “forth to their last degree,” 
also stands as the first and only time Spenser applies temporal modifiers to 
“degree,” a term he elsewhere reserves for vertical classification. Wording this 
crucial definition with careful attention to chronotopic implications, he fuses 
temporal and spatial distinctions to express the type of exemplary life that can 
replace the regressive progress of romance and the earned salvational progress 
of Catholic epic. Charity allows the knight to “frame” — a term Spenser 
employs throughout the Faerie Queene to designate the architectonics of literal 
and figurative constructions — his mortal life in the sense that his invulnerable 
integritas is once again “perfect”; in the sense that the full hierarchical range of 
his activities, from large to small and from high to low, is beyond reproach; and 
in the sense that each step along his life’s pilgrimage, from first unto the last 
(and, of course, from earthly life below to heavenly life above), is “in” holy 
righteousness and “without,” or beyond, the reaches of sin, which would taint 
his exemplary status. By adding Faith Redcrosse achieved the victories he has 
achieved so far; by adding Hope he returned to the true path; by adding Charity 
he can sustain the cure effected by Faith and Hope and frame for himself an epic 
itinerary of heroic action that is no less exemplary and no less consistently 
motivated than that of his predecessors. 

The hero who proceeds from the House of Holiness to achieve earthly glory 
and, at the same time, to cooperate with the Providential plan, appears to have 
returned to the best of all possible epic worlds. The elaborate generic trappings 
of the combat with the dragon — invocation, similes, allusions linking classical 
epic to the Christian apocalypse, the defense of the Edenic omphalos, the 
apparent founding of a new dynastic line — reward the saint for and correspond 
to the inner achievement realized at the House of Holiness. And then suddenly, 
like the return of the repressed, paradox intrudes upon this splendid harmony. 
While he is rewriting Homer’s plot to allow the hero to marry the utopian king’s 
daughter, Spenser also gives Redcrosse the occasion to speak to his hosts “of 
straunge adventures, and of perils sad, / Which in his travell him befallen had” 
(xi1.15.4-5). The hero, the narrator informs us, “discourst his voyage long,” 
proceeding with epic diligence “from point to point” (15.8-9), and the Emperor 
of Eden duly replies with sympathy for “the great evils, which ye bore / From 
first to last in your late enterprise” (17.2-3). But as Jacqueline Miller points out, 
after Archimago suddenly appears with a letter claiming the knight is betrothed 
to Duessa, it is revealed that Redcrosse, strangely, neglects to mention his 
encounters with Fidessa/Duessa during his allegedly “point to point” account. It 
appears that his ability to frame his epic itinerary “from the first unto the last 
degree” is accompanied by a tendency to suppress those events of the past that 
do not lie neatly upon this newly and retrospectively constructed true path. If it 
were not unsettling enough to witness the patron of wholeness practicing half- 
truth, substituting the part for the whole in the manner of Archimago, Duessa, 
and Despair, Redcrosse immediately follows his account with the surprising 


140 Patrick J. Cook 


announcement that he must rush off to six years’ service against the Paynim 
king. Even after its apparent reduction of romance to its own ends, epic, we now 
find, imitates its generic double by ending with its conflict of allegiances 
unresolved. Reaffirming the lessons that our recent vision of Edenic harmony 
might have allowed us to forget, the paradoxical ending of the Legend of 
Holiness sends us into the remaining books with a better understanding both of 
the need to grip the whole discourse as in a handful and of the difficulties and 
dangers this process entails. Or to put the matter allegorically, Wholeness has 
been betrothed to Truth, but it will be some time before the marriage is 
consummated, and we remain, with our attention heightened by anticipation, in 
the expectant yet anxious period in between. 


George Washington University 


Works Cited 


Ajam, Laurent. “La forét dans l’oeuvre de Chrétien de Troyes.” Europe 642 (1982): 120- 
25. 

Ariosto, Ludovico. Orlando furioso. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. Torino: Einaudi, 1971. 

Ascoli, Albert R. Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony: Crisis and Evasion in the Italian 
Renaissance. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1987. 

Bakhtin, Mihail. The Dialogic Imagination. Trans C. Emerson and M. Holquist. Ed. M. 
Holquist. Austin: U of Texas P, 1981. 

Beazley, C. Raymond. The Dawn of Modern Geography. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1906. 

Berger, Harry, Jr. “Spenser’s Faerie Queene, Book I: Prelude to Interpretation.” Southern 
Review 2 (1966): 18-49. 

Boiardo, Matteo Maria. Orlando innamorato. Ed. Aldo Scaglione. Torino: Classici 
UTET, 1963. 

Burns, E. Jane. Arthurian Fictions: Rereading the Vulgate Cycle. Miami: Ohio State UP, 
1985. 

Carne-Ross, D. S. “The One and the Many: A Reading of the Orlando furioso, Cantos 1 
and 8.” Arion 5 (1966): 195-234. 

Dante Alighieri. The Divine Comedy. Trans. Charles S. Singleton. 6 vols. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1970-75. 

DiCesare, Mario A. The Altar and the City: A Reading of Vergil’s Aeneid. New York: 
Columbia UP, 1974. 

Donato, Eugenio. “Per selve e boscherecci labirinti’: Desire and Narrative Structure in 
Ariosto’s Orlando furioso.” Barocco 4 (1972): 17-34. 

Fichter, Andrew. Poets Historical: Dynastic Epic in the Renaissance. New Haven: Yale 
UP, 1982. 

Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Introd. and ed. Rachel Jacoff. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. 

Galinsky, Gotthard. The Herakles Theme. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman and Littlefield, 1972. 





The Epic Chronotope from Ariosto to Spenser 141 


Goldberg, Jonathan. Endlesse Worke: Spenser and the Structures of Discourse. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1981. 

Greene, Thomas M. The Descent from Heaven: A Study in Epic Continuity. New Haven: 
Yale UP, 1963. 

Griffin, Robert. Ludovico Ariosto. New York: Twayne, 1974. 

Hanning, Robert W. The Individual in Twelfth-Century Romance. New Haven: Yale UP, 
1977. 

Hardie, Philip. Vergil’s Aeneid: Cosmos and Imperium. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. 

Hooker, Richard. Of the Laws of Ecclesiastical Polity. Ed. Christopher Morris. London: J. 
M. Dent, 1907. 

Jakobson, Roman. “The Dominant.” Readings in Russian Poetics: Formalist and 
Structuralist Views. Ed. Ladislav Matejka and Krystyna Pomorska. Ann Arbor: U of 
Michigan P, 1978. 82-90. 

Javitch, David. “Cantus Interruptus in the Orlando furioso.” MLN 95 (1980): 66-80. 

Kirk, G. S. The Nature of Greek Myths. London: Penguin, 1974. 

Kohler, Erich. L’Aventure Chevaleresque. Paris: Gallimard, 1956. 

Lewalski, Barbara Kiefer. Protestant Poetics and the Seventeenth Century Religious 
Lyric. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

Mack, Sarah. Patterns of Time in Vergil. Hamden, Conn.: Archon, 1978. 

Murnin, Michael. The Allegorical Epic: Essays in Its Rise and Decline. Chicago: U of 
Chicago P, 1980. 

Miller, Jacqueline. “The Omission in Red Cross Knight’s Story: Narrative Inconsistencies 
in The Faerie Queene.” ELH 53 (1986): 279-88. 

Nelson, William. The Poetry of Edmund Spenser. New York: Columbia UP, 1963. 

Panofsky, Erwin. Hercules am Scheidewege. Leipzig: B. G. Teubner, 1930. 

Parker, Patricia. Inescapable Romance: Studies in the Poetics of a Mode. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1979. 

Rowse, A. L. The Expansion of Elizabethan England. London: Macmillan, 1955. 

Saccone, Eduardo. // soggetto del Furioso. Napoli: Liguori Editore, 1974. 

Sklute, Larry M. “The Ambiguity of Ethical Norms in Courtly Romance.” PMLA 68 
(1953): 1160-82. 

Smith, Jonathan Z. To Take Place: Toward Theory in Ritual. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 
1987. 

Spenser, Edmund. The Faerie Queene. Ed. A. C. Hamilton. New York: Longman, 1977. 

. The Works of Edmund Spenser, a Variorum Edition Ed. Edwin Greenlaw et al. 
10 vols. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1932-57. 

Stinger, Charles. The Renaissance in Rome. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1985. 

Zatti, Sergio. /1 Furioso fra epos e romanzo. Lucca: Pacini Fazzi, 1990. 








Lawrence F. Rhu 


Ariosto Moralisé: 
Political Decorum in Spenser's Imitations 
of Orlando furioso' 





A familiar anecdote records Elizabeth’s response to the circulation at court of her 
godson’s translation of the twenty-eighth canto of Orlando furioso. The queen 
allegedly “punished” John Harington with the task of Englishing the remaining 
forty-five cantos of the Italian bestseller. Her reaction indicates something of the 
reception that a poem like Ariosto’s popular romance might encounter in the 
highest places during the final phase of the Tudor dynasty. Despite the poem’s 
evident impropriety, this ribald excerpt seems to have produced an appetite for 
more of the Furioso in the ultimate arbiter of taste at the late Tudor court 
(McNulty xxiv-xxv). Elizabeth’s unwillingness to protest too much may also 
enact the “quick vivacity of spirit” and “pleasing affability” commended to court 
ladies in Castiglione’s manual of conduct, if they are confronted with “talk that 
is a little too loose” (The Book of the Courtier 207).2 In The Scholemaster, 
however, Roger Ascham’s more direct assault upon the trifling of Arthurian 
romance and the socio-religious outrage of an Englishman Italianate suggests 
more explicitly the sort of resistance that a poem like Ariosto’s might face in 
England, especially if it were undertaken by a less intimate associate of the inner 
circle at court than John Harington (Ascham 106).3 

Therefore, Spenser’s recurrent imitations of Orlando furioso in The Faerie 
Queene inevitably involve anxieties besides those of merely literary influence. 
This aspiring author’s effort to introduce himself into the line of a “strong poet” 
like his chief Italian precursor undoubtedly entails such concerns, if we adopt 


1 The opening portion of this essay expands and revises my “Romancing Eliza: The Political 
Decorum of Ariostan Imitation in The Faerie Queene” (Renaissance Papers 1993). 

The phrases thus rendered appear as follows in the Italian text: “una pronta vivacita d'ingegno; 
una certa affabilita piacevole; i ragionamenti ancor un poco lascivi” (Il libro del cortegiano 303). 

Coming, as it does, from a period earlier in the Tudor era than do the texts of Harington and 
Spenser central to this essay, The Scholemaster is potentially anachronistic. However, Ascham's 
linkage of romance and national character is apposite, as is his role as the young Elizabeth's tutor. 
Further, such opinions as those he espoused about Italy abound in the final decades of her reign. 
Texts like Thomas Nashe’s The Unfortuante Traveller or Gaveston's speech in Marlowe's Edward 
IT, 1.1.50-70, readily attest to such attitudes, as does York’s denuciation of “Lascivious metres, to 
whose venom sound / The open ear of youth doth always listen,/ Report of fashion in proud Italy,/ 
Whose manner still our tardy-apish nation/Limps after in base imitation” (Richard II, 2.1.19-23). 
York’s outcry is anachronistic in relation to the period of Richard II’s rule but represents anti- 
Italian feeling typical of the Elizabethan nineties. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


144 Lawrence F. Rhu 


Harold Bloom’s psychoanalytic perspective on relations between ambitious 
young poets and their well established predecessors. But when Spenser 
announces that “[flierce warres and faithfull loves shall moralize [his] song” 
(1.pr.1.9), he sounds a note whose echo suggests more than his emulous desire 
to “overgo Ariosto,” as Gabriel Harvey describes his friend’s ambition in their 
published correspondence (628);* for Spenser’s choice of this particular exemplar 
occasions more than a transaction between individual poets. Its ramifications 
include the refashioning of an Italian model for an English audience whose most 
decisive member was the queen herself and whose sense of collective identity was 
routinely asserted via its differences from Rome in religion and from Italy in 
general, despite myriad cultural debts that England undeniably owed to that alien 
nation. 

Spenser’s figure of Britomart, with her obvious origins in Ariosto’s 
Bradamante and her clear relation to Elizabeth, most directly reflects the English 
poem’s relation to its dominant Italian pre-text in the politically sensitive 
project of representing the queen; but the figure of Belphoebe, who is also 
depicted via patent reprises from the Ariostan model and explicitly associated 
with Elizabeth in Spenser’s Letter to Ralegh, entails a kindred assimilation of 
alien origins to the ends of English poetry and thus also tests Spenser’s skill as 
a mediator in that delicate exchange between cultures. Delicacy, moreover, is a 
quality upon which Ariostan wit in particular can put immense strains for an 
English poet addressing his queen, as the canto from the Furioso that supposedly 
caused Elizabeth to exact her ironic punishment from John Harington readily 
attests. Unrestrained ribaldry at the expense of women forms the substance of the 
episode of Astolfo and Giocondo recounted therein; for this tale represents 
women as creatures whose sex drive is boundless and who, in consequence, are 
predictably unfaithful. The Italian poet begs off in the proem to this canto by 
attributing the presence of such a misogynous episode in his poem entirely to 
Turpin, the Archbishop of Rheims, who regularly functions as the standard of 
authenticity for events in the story that Ariosto strategically admits, in such 
instances, he is retelling from a source.’ “Things unattempted yet in prose or 
thyme” thus become authoritatively twice-told tales in a comic routine that 


4 All Spenser quotations are taken from the Penguin edition of The Faerie Queene. Of course, 
Spenser is echoing the familiar opening line of Ariosto's masterwork: Le donne, i cavallier, l‘arme. 
liamori.... 

“Lasciate questo canto, che senza esso / pud star l’istoria, e non sara men chiara./ Mettendolo 
Turpino, anch’io l'ho messo,/ non per malivolenzia né per gara” (28.2.1-4; “Skip this canto, since 
the story can stand without it and will be no less clear. Since Turpin included it, so have I, but not 
in malevolence or taunting”). Legend has it that Turpin accompanied Charlemagne in his march on 
Spain and died at Roncesvalles. A Life of Charlemagne is ascribed to him, and Ariosto attributes 
preposterous occurrences to the authority of this witness on numerous occasions. In doing so, he 
follows Boiardo, whose point of departure for Orlando innamorato is Turpin’s “true chronicle.” 
For a useful discussion of this feature of Ariosto’s poem, see Zatti 173-212. 


Political Decorum in Spenser’ s Imitations of Orlando furioso 145 


recurs throughout the Furioso on extravagant occasions when the narrative 
becomes comically preposterous.® 

Given the contents of Ariosto’s tale of Astolfo and Giocondo, perhaps it is 
surprising that Spenser alludes to it at all; but inhibitions in this regard are 
uncharacteristic of the Elizabethan poet, especially in the “Legend of Chastity.” 
Hellenore’s experience among the satyrs, for example, reveals no squeamishness 
in affairs orgiastic enough to scandalize prudes; and the Squire of Dames’ 
unsuccessful quest for ladies who would “abide for ever chast and sound” 
(3.7.56.7) reprises in brief the canto of Ariosto’s that supposedly shocked the 
queen into requiring Harington’s translation to come into being. Despite its 
shorter form, Spenser’s English remake of the Italian model communicates the 
same message about women, although it disparages the whole sex with more 
courtly discretion than Ariosto’s version displays. Spenser never indulges, here 
or elsewhere, in Ariosto’s habitual jest about Turpin and the poet’s consequent 
obligation to relate patently ridiculous accounts of unbelievable events and 
behavior; but he does show a decorous restraint in the language that he employs, 
and his toning down of the ribaldry in this source typifies Spenser’s modification 
of Ariostan originals. The Italian poet’s strategic attribution both of his story to 
Turpin and of its inclusion in the Furioso to scrupulosity over historical truth 
compounds with the scabrous joke on women and thus slyly enhances it. But 
Spenser gallantly fends off the attack on their sex contained in this tale by a 
direct (though belated) critique of its teller and by the indirection of allegory as 
well. The bawdy tale initially receives the sanction of wry commiseration from 
its auditor, Satyrane, via the Spenserian equivalent of what moviemakers 
nowadays call a “reaction shot”: 


Perdy, (said Satyrane) thou Squire of Dames, 

Great labour fondly hast thou hent in hand, 

To get small thankes, and therewith many blames, 
That may emongst Alcides labours stand. 
(3.7.61.1-4) 


However, when the narrator abandons Florimell to return to Satyrane and resume 
this strand of his story, he makes a point of censuring the teller of this scabrous 
tale and thus demonstrates his own unwilligness to connive with the Squire’s 
sense of humor: 


It yrkes me, leave thee in this wofull state, 
To tell of Satyrane, where I him left of late. 
Who having ended with that Squire of Dames 
A long discourse of his adventures vaine, 


6 T borrow Milton’s rendition in Paradise Lost 1.16 of Ariosto’s bold claim in Orlando furioso 1.2.2: 
“cosa non detta in prosa mai né in rima.” 


146 Lawrence F. Rhu 


The which himselfe, then Ladies more defames.... 
(3.8.43-44) 


Further, this figure has ended up in the clutches of that voracious monster of 
sexual appetite, Argante, whom only a virtual clone of the Belphoebe/Britomart 
type, Palladine, can ultimately overcome. An allegorical reading of the Squire’s 
fortunes in his sexual quest thus reveals his moral degeneracy, and by sounding 
like a grammatical feminization of the common synonym for knight errant, 
“paladin,” his savior’s name itself amounts to a pun suggesting the sort of 
martial maidenhood that Britomart epitomizes. 

Social tact of this sort and comparable strategies of ingratiation distinguish 
key instances of Spenser’s imitations of Ariosto that entail a figure associated 
with Queen Elizabeth like Britomart or Belphoebe; and the issues at stake in 
such reprises become clearer when one takes into account both the literary 
origins and the political destinations of these passages. The pervasive irreverence 
of Ariostan romance becomes potentially even more volatile when compounded 
with the prospect of a readership at a court with no less of a woman on top than 
Queen Elizabeth.” Thus, Paul Alpers’s discussion of Britomart as a comic figure 
(393-97) makes more sense when considered in tandem with the issue of female 
authority that Maureen Quilligan identifies as a primary condition in Spenser’s 
initial presentation of Belphoebe. Comedy comes into play for both critics, as 
does an inevitable consciousness of Elizabeth as a designated reader and 
allegorical subject of The Faerie Queene; but for Quilligan the comedy derives 
from that consciousness of the queen and amounts to a male way of 
accommodating discomfort with female authority. Her inference rings true, but 
combining these perspectives with an appreciation of the Ariostan pre-texts so 
often in the background at such junctures provides a fresh sense of the political 
and artistic pressures that commonly bear upon Spenser’s imitations of his chief 
Italian exemplar; for these models place additional strains upon poetic practice at 
the point of origin, when an awareness of their intended audience is perceived as 
a condition of their imitation from the start. 

The proem to Book III turns into a hymn of praise to Elizabeth more 
promptly than all other such exordia in the poem because it concerns a virtue 
most readily, indeed most necessarily, associated with the Virgin Queen. 
Although Spenser will subsequently distinguish chastity from virginity in a way 
that can be construed as a criticism of his sovereign, such inferences require 
explanatory initiatives that are as likely to betray the “gealous opinion” of the 
interpreter as the hidden agenda of the poet; and the alacrity of the poet’s paean to 
the queen in this proem effectively preempts suspicions of this sort, at least at 
the outset of this book. Spenser’s “Legend of Chastity” may ultimately expose 
Elizabeth’s failure to create an heir by her lack of energy and resolve in the very 


7 T borrow (and slightly alter) Davis’s title for her fifth chapter, “Women on Top” (124). 


Political Decorum in Spenser’ s Imitations of Orlando furioso 147 


quest that motivates the exemplary Britomart, but such “subversive” messages 
only become clear upon reflection and analysis as the narrative proceeds. Spenser 
knows very well how to get past the gate at a party whose hostess he may 
quietly disparage once within doors. Arguably such social skills amount to the 
essence of the kind of courtliness that he learned to practice in the advancement 
of his own career. 

The first canto of Faerie Queene III opens with a broad gesture toward 
Ariosto by relating an encounter between Britomart and the two champions of 
the previous book, Arthur and Guyon, which is modeled upon an episode at the 
conclusion of the first canto in Orlando furioso. The English poet displaces and 
recombines elements from Ariosto’s initial canto in a way that demonstrates 
Spenser’s courtly decorum while still signaling clearly the source that he has 
assimilated and reproduced in very much his own fashion. The most resonantly 
Ariostan chord that Spenser sounds — “O goodly usage of those antique times” 
(3.1.13.1) — echoes a prominent line from the Furioso’s first encounter in an 
obvious effort to associate the episode under way with its Italian original. 
However, Spenser reins in the raucous humor of two opponents who suspend 
their differences of religion and race to cut a deal that facilitates their hot pursuit 
of a desirable princess, as occurs in the case of Rinaldo and Ferrat in Furioso 1. 
Arthur and Guyon do contrast humorously with Timias and Britomart, when the 
two male knights promptly chase after Florimell and thus abandon both the 
squire, who pursues “the foule Foster,” and “the martial maid,” who continues to 
follow her original course. But Ariosto’s famous line — “O gran bonta de’ 
cavalieri antiqui!” (1.22.1) — caps a crescendo of anti-chivalric satire with 
transparent irony, whereas Spenser invokes that resonant verse in generally 
convincing tribute to mutual restraint between knightly rivals before he proceeds 
to a diminuendo of ironies and the subsequent event of the chase. 

Furthermore, Spenser moderates the slapstick at the end of Ariosto’s initial 
canto. The awkward pratfall that determines the victor in the joust between 
Sacripante and Bradamante serves as the model for the encounter between Guyon 
and Britomart, but Spenser notably tones down the comic element in the process 
of imitation. Bradamante, unlike Britomart, carries no magic lance at this stage 
in her story, but she manages to overcome her challenger in a head-on collision 
of their horses. Given the allegory of sexual appetite associated with 
horsemanship throughout the Furioso, Bradamante thus gains something of a 
pyrrhic victory for the moral order in such a messy encounter with the would-be 
rapist of Angelica. The summary unhorsing of the knight of Temperance by the 
exemplar of Chastity in Spenser’s poem makes the comparative value of these 
virtues less problematic than the incident in Ariosto upon which Britomart’s 
prompt conquest of Guyon is based. The priority given to Bradamante’s pursuit 
of her beloved Ruggiero will soon be both acknowledged by her choice to 
neglect her recall to duty at Marseilles and then sanctioned by Melissa’s 
prophecy in Merlin’s cave; however, when she is thus brought low in a joust 


148 Lawrence F. Rhu 


gone awry, the dignity of her chivalric heroism does not emerge untarnished 
despite her apparent “triumph” in this misadventure. Sacripante is the undeniable 
loser, and the arriving messenger makes matters painfully worse for him by 
revealing that his victorious rival is a woman. In Guyon’s unhorsing the Palmer 
divines this embarrassing fact, but he keeps it to himself so that it does not 
emerge as a public humiliation. Both the Palmer’s persuasive intervention and 
face-saving white lies from Arthur serve to rationalize Guyon’s defeat in a cover- 
up that entirely glosses over the most shameful aspect of this paladin’s loss. 
What Ariosto’s text trumpets aloud to all, Spenser reserves for a parenthetical 
aside that leaves the butt of this joke unapprised of the palpable hit at his dignity 
and thereby spares Guyon the open dishonor of public embarrassment. Moreover, 
gallant consideration for Guyon’s feelings prompts the excuses that Arthur 
invents on behalf of his companion, whereas Angelica concocts similar 
rationalizations simply to persist in manipulating Sacripante for her own selfish 
purposes. An Elizabethan courtier’s sober sense of decorum pervades Spenser’s 
re-presentation of Ariosto’s broad jest and thus restrains the spirit of irreverence 
characteristic of the Italian original in its opening gambits. 

Courtiers, of course, come in many varieties, and we should not confuse 
Brand X with the top of the line or any other of the degrees in this kind. It would 
be hard to imagine the Earl of Essex, for example, fussing over such nuances of 
reception as concern Spenser in addressing his poem to the queen. Sir John 
Harington, as his aristocratic title suggests and his status as Elizabeth’s godson 
further indicates, could readily assume a more cordial welcome at the queen’s 
court than a talented outsider like Spenser could reasonably expect. Such a 
predisposition in his royal reader gave Harington the leeway for mischievous 
play that he exploited in his fabled prank of circulating the Furioso’s bawdiest 
canto as an initial sampler of what was to come. Comparing both his version of 
the Italian original and his commentary on it with Spenser’s imitation of the 
same source material suggests the social complacency with which Harington 
undertook literary chores akin to reprises of Ariosto that Spenser wrought in 
notably more guarded ways. For example, in defending the moral efficacy of 
Orlando furioso, Harington even ascribes that potential to the story of Astolfo 
and Giocondo. In the preface to his translation, after a perfunctory show of 
distaste in this regard, he asserts that “even that lewd tale may bring some men 
profit,” and adds that he has “heard that it is already (and perhaps not unfitly) 
termed the comfort of cuckolds” (McNulty 11-12). He returns to this line of 
thought in his commentary on the canto itself, where he alludes to the cuckold’s 
affliction as “the blow that never smarteth as some have termed it” (McNulty 
323) and thus indicates the pleasure he takes in this kind of fun. In Harington’s 
“setting foorth” of the Furioso® we can merrily enjoy this scabrous episode at 


8 I use the quoted phrase to refer to both Harington’s translation and the apparatus that 
accompanies it in the original edition. See Cauchi. 


Political Decorum in Spenser's Imitations of Orlando furioso 149 


the expense of women and acquire needed solace in the process, whereas the 
narrator of The Faerie Queene pointedly rejects such connivance with the teller of 
Spenser’s version of this tale. Thus, in contexts where Ariostan ribaldry and 
irreverence are media of exchange among Harington, Spenser, and Elizabeth I, 
the pressures of gender and status become increasingly apparent as they bear 
upon The Faerie Queene. In such transactions each of these participants has a 
potential role to play in enhancing our understanding of Spenser’s poem, and the 
determinants of their respective social positions influence the nature of the 
originally Ariostan text that emerges in Spenser’s imitations of Orlando furioso. 

Reading Spenser’s imitations of Ariosto in the context of their likely 
reception at Elizabeth’s court should not limit these reprises to the exclusive 
confines of a few perspectives upon them; gender and power, however, are 
undeniably influential conditions of Spenserian composition that deserve due 
consideration, if not single-minded attention. The female monarch as “target 
audience” (to borrow a phrase from the lingo of admen) can help explain how the 
volatile irreverence of Ariostan pre-texts becomes acceptable subject matter for 
“our sage and serious poet” (Milton 728), once decorous adjustments have 
accommodated potentially subversive models to their new setting. Such an 
adaptation from another unlikely source underlies the central myth of Spenser’s 
poem, and his accommodation of this peculiar pre-text for courtly compliment 
exemplifies analogous aspects of Ariostan imitation in The Faerie Queene. 

I refer to Spenser’s use of “The Tale of Sir Thopas” from The Canterbury 
Tales to represent Arthur’s dream when he explains to Una what has brought 
him to Fairyland in the first place (1.9.6-15). “Sir Thopas” is Chaucer the 
pilgim’s own initial contribution to the tale-swapping among fellow travellers; 
and his offering is so insufferably boring that it elicits this blunt dismissal from 
Harry Baillie, the host of the Tabard Inn, who presides over the exchange of 
stories: 


“By God,” quod he, “for pleynly, at a word, 
Thy drasty rymyng is not worth a toord!” 
(vv. 929-30) 


Derek Pearsall writes of this tale with telling wit when he remarks, “It has been 
said that an appreciation of Milton is one of the rewards of a classical education, 
and it can be said of Thopas that it would be worth reading all the popular 
Middle English romances for no other reason than to savour the more its 
delicious absurdity” (161-62). Yet Spenser employs this parodic dream vision of 
an “elf-queene” (v. 788) by an utterly implausible knight to clarify what 
motivates his pattern of all the virtues, Arthur, in his quest for Gloriana, “that 
true glorious type” of Elizabeth herself. The peculiarity of this choice of models 
corresponds to the palpable oddness that frequently haunts Ariostan reprises in 
their Spenserian settings. 


150 Lawrence F. Rhu 


The mid-sixteenth century canonization of Orlando furioso as an edifying 
classic may account for some of the readiness with which it could be assimilated 
to the high purposes of Spenser’s didactic allegory, but “Sir Thopas” had no 
such legacy of moral exemplarity attached to it.? Quite the contrary; if we recall 
Wyatt’s denunciation (vv. 50-51) of courtiers who 


Praise Sir Thopas for a noble tale 
And scom the story that the knight told, 


we can fairly appreciate the common Tudor estimate of Spenser’s chosen model 
for Arthur’s dream vision. Further, if we recall Shakespeare’s burlesque of this 
oneiric encounter with the fairy queen in A Midsummer Night's Dream, we can 
understand the vulnerability to parody of this sort of romantic transport, 
especially when it is premised upon such shaky grounds that its untenable 
claims upon our serious regard are already fully apparent. Finally, by comparing 
this shared motif in these two works of the Elizabethan nineties, we can also 
witness the political decorum that representations of the queen then required in 
venues as diverse as Shakespearean drama and Spenserian epic romance. 

Both the desire that sets Thopas upon his quest and the frustrating 
interruption of its attainment in the original dream vision bear noteworthy 
similarities to the motives and experiences of Ariosto’s knights, whose vain 
pursuits of the elusive Angelica consume much of their energy in the opening 
cantos of Orlando furioso.'° But Shakespeare assigns a comparable dream and its 
apparent realization in the flesh (and fur) to the “rude mechanical,” Bottom; and 
he thus recovers something of the comedy that characterizes both the Chaucerian 
version of this experience and its Ariostan analogues. Moreover, he plays the 
dangerous game of placing a conventional figure for his sovereign, the fairy 
queen, at the center of this farcical consummation of transgressive desire; yet he 
launches thereby a stinging satire not on the cult of Elizabeth, which he 
carefully protects from this attack, but on the most prominent poet among the 
cultists, Edmund Spenser.!! Though Shakespeare represents Bottom the weaver 
spending a midsummer’s night with the fairy queen, the madcap context of their 
tryst diminishes its potential offensiveness. On such a night, in such a play, 
anything goes, it seems. Bottom can have Arthur’s dream without the residue of 
longing, without “that fresh bleeding wound, which day and night / Whilome 
doth rancle in [his] riven breast” (Faerie Queene 1.9.7.4-5); and Shakespeare can 
safely have his farcical way with Spenser’s stately personage. Within the bounds 
of certain kinds of literary works, the outrageous becomes laughable especially 


9 Javitch documents this process in telling detail. His chapter on Harington (134-57) is especially 
relevant to the English reception of Orlando furioso. 
See Anderson and Silverman for apposite discussions of Spenserian humor in relation to 
Chaucer and Ariosto. Goldberg also reflects upon the “Sir Thopas” connection (18-20). 
1 See Bednarz for a thorough discussion of Shakespearean parody of Spenser in this comedy. 


Political Decorum in Spenser’ s Imitations of Orlando furioso 151 


by means of the deft distinction Shakespeare makes between his fairy queen, 
Titania, and a figure of Elizabeth notably immune to Cupid’s arrow: 


A certain aim he took 

At a fair vestal throned by [the] west, 

And loos’d his love-shaft smartly from his bow, 
As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts; 

But I might see young Cupid’s fiery shaft 
Quench’d in the chaste beams of the wat’ry moon, 
And the imperial vot’ress passed on, 

In maiden meditation, fancy free. 

(2.1.157-64) 


Shakespeare’s self-protective strategy in sending up Spenser but not Elizabeth 
runs parallel to the decorous redistribution of elements in the Ariostan pre-texts, 
whose restrained imitation constitutes the opening of “The Legend of 
Britomartis. Or of Chastity.” Spenser merges elements from the beginning and 
end of Orlando furioso’s first canto that enable him to celebrate both chivalry and 
a figural ancestor of the queen, Britomart; but he suppresses a more sinister 
feature of his source in this reprise. Sacripante’s lustful designs upon Angelica 
are displaced to another context and refigured in an altogether lower type, 
Braggadochio; and this transformation of his pre-text further enables Spenser to 
observe decorum in both the social and literary senses of that term.!* Whereas 
Angelica’s calculated mollification of Sacripante is reprised in the excuses that 
Arthur tactfully fabricates for the fallen Guyon, Spenser dissociates the sexual 
aggression of Ariosto’s king of Circassia from all of his aristocratic figures and 
transfers it to one of patently comic baseness, Braggadochio. Thus, the ambition 
to ravish an explicit type of the queen — “shadowed” here as “‘a most vertuous 
and beautifull Lady,” Belphoebe — becomes instantaneously recognizable as the 
vice of a transparent imposter from the lower orders. The “griesly Foster” chases 
Florimell, but the would-be courtier who is obviously unqualified to realize his 
desires becomes the venue for lust of the kind Sacripante was contemplating in 
the company of Angelica when Bradamante foiled his plans. 

In her next appearance Belphoebe is not exempt from another desiring gaze 
that comes, in this case, from a more deserving type, Timias, the honorable 
squire of Arthur. When Spenser resumes the tale of Florimell’s prompt defender 
in 3.5, he manages both to illustrate the problems inherent in beholding such a 
prepossessing figure as this “shadow” of the queen and dutifully to expound upon 
the proprieties in jeopardy during a transaction of this sort. Yet his revision of 


12 The political allegory in this episode has frequently been noted. The relevant commentary in 
the Variorum Edition (206ff.) begins with Upton’s remark, “Methinks when I see Braggadochio 
and his buffoon servant Trompart repulsed by Belphoebe, I cannot help thinking them proper types 
of the Duke of Anjou and of Simier.”” For a recent consideraton of this phenomenon, see Quint. 


152 Lawrence F. Rhu 


another Ariostan model on this occasion again shows the strain entailed in the 
decorous modification of an unruly original whose frequent irreverence can create 
friction in the process of tactful refashioning especially necessary in contexts 
that make reference to the queen. Indeed Spenser’s authorial intervention at this 
juncture on the topic of virginity pays courtly compliment to this precious 
quality at such elaborate length that one senses the potential for comedy 
exploited in the first episode with Braggadochio lurking in the background of 
this awestruck tribute to the very sort of rose that Sacripante schemed 
unsuccessfully to pluck. Further, if one recalls Ariosto’s skeptical speculations 
about Angelica’s virgin rose when she asserts its intactness to the doubtful 
Sacripante, the contrast in tone could not be more complete. 

One of the profound jokes central to the plot of Orlando furioso depends 
upon what strikes the poem’s eponymous hero, Orlando, as the appalling 
unworthiness of Medoro, the guy who gets the girl whom the great knights 
routinely go awol to pursue; and this infantryman is the figure who stands 
behind Timias in the model that Spenser imitates in the initial encounter 
between the squire and Belphoebe. Medoro’s very name encodes a pun upon the 
Aristotelian ideal of aurea mediocritas, the Golden Mean, and Ariosto singles out 
this mere footsoldier for the prize that remains maddeningly unattainable to a 
host of aristocratic aspirants. Like Medoro, Timias is prompt and daring in the 
execution of what he perceives as his duty; and his name, which derives from the 
Greek word for honor (timé), also signifies pointedly a salient element of his 
role in the poem as an attendant upon Arthur, that perfect compound of all the 
virtues. But Spenser, while fully reproducing in his reprise Ariosto’s 
Petrarchism through metaphors of lovesickness and the wounds of passion, 
situates them in the squire, who is thus twice smitten -- by the foresters, whom 
he ultimately overcomes, and by Belphoebe, with whom he has no chance of 
winning. Spenser thus totally suppresses the comedy of class difference central 
to the Ariostan episode in which a princess’ sudden and irreversible crush on a 
commoner succeeds in driving the noblest of her suitors ‘round the bend. 
Further, Spenser virtually marks this suppression with an encomium that in part 
sounds almost like a homily, for both praise and admonition are joined to 
celebrate Belphoebe’s truly remarkable “rose” and to declare her an example for 
“‘[flaire ympes of beautie” to heed. The poet’s neoplatonic idealization transforms 
Timias’ inappropriate desire into a fit understanding of the object that he 
misapprehends and thus provides a correct alternative to both his mistaken gaze 
and that of Braggadochio. But only in the clear case of the latter’s 
unambiguously degraded nature could Spenser comfortably recapture something 
of the comic spirit of his Italian original. 

It is not easy to generalize persuasively about Spenser’s imitations of 
Orlando furioso because contrary undercurrents and elusive tensions between the 
model and its reprise often confound our desire for a secure sense of the English 
poet’s intentions. It is necessary to review such passages individually and to 


Political Decorum in Spenser’ s Imitations of Orlando furioso 153 


appreciate their redistribution of elements from a variety of Ariostan sources that 
often undergo radical changes due to the Spenserian contexts in which they 
appear. No episode from The Faerie Queene more readily invites commentary 
from the critic with an interest in how issues of gender and power influence its 
author than the liberation of Artegall from servile captivity in Radigone at the 
hands of amazonian warriors. It too contains a significant combination of quite 
different, if not contradictory, passages from the Furioso; and it is easy to 
overlook the tension between them, which the English poet suppresses. 

Spenser’s pointed rejection of matriarchy, as it is exemplified by this 
society, includes a notable exception that saves a place for England’s current 
queen among divinely sanctioned monarchs. After the overthrow of Radigund, 
Britomart briefly takes charge of the kingdom and sets it right: 


. .. She there as Princes rained, 

And changing all that forme of common weale, 
The liberty of women did repeale, 

Which they had long usurpt; and them restoring 
To mens subiection, did true [ustice deale. 
(5.7.42.3-7) 


This reaffirmation of a gendered hierarchy with men on top is routinely read in 
the context of Spenser’s previous obiter dictum about the governmental 
organization of Radigone. 


Such is the crueltie of womenkynd, 

When they have shaken off the shamefast band, 
With which wise Nature did them strongly bynd, 
T’obay the heast of mans well ruling hand, 

That then all rule and reason they withstand, 

To purchase a licentious libertie. 

But vertuous women wisely understand, 

That they were borne to base humilitie, 

Unlesse the heavens lift them to lawfull soveraintie. 
(5.5.25) 


The hexameter’s gesture of deference for the current arrangement of the 
Elizabethan polity mirrors Shakespeare’s signal exclusion of a figure of the 
Virgin Queen from contamination by his satire in Bottom’s tryst with Titania. 
Spenser’s critique of female rule, like Cupid’s arrow, tactfully misses the queen 
regnant. 

But recollection of his source for the revision of the law of Radigone can, 
once again, skew our sense of the propriety of Spenser’s overall endorsement of 
the patriarchal organization of civil government. Memory of its origins in 
Ariosto haunts its message in Spenser, just as an awareness that Arthur’s dream 


154 Lawrence F. Rhu 


derives from Sir Thopas’ vision of his “elf-queene” offers an extremely odd angle 
from which to view its transformation in The Faerie Queene. Because the 
homocidal women of Alessandretta (19.54-20.98) constitute the signal instance 
of female rule in the Furioso, they are routinely, and rightly, taken for the key 
analogue to the amazonian citizenry of Spenser’s Radigone (Bowman). However, 
in the 1532 additions to his poem, Ariosto introduced three episodes that balance 
and extend adventures narrated in the previous two editions; and one of these, the 
tale of Marganorre’s tyrannical misogyny in canto 37, corresponds in its 
thematic preoccupations with issues raised by the Alessandretta episode and 
comments tellingly upon it. In this context, as in Spenser’s Radigone, power 
relations are determined by legal statute that gives absolute control to members 
of one sex; and the conquering heroes force a change upon the society that they 
subdue. However, the law that undergoes not merely revison, but reversal, turns 
the former kingdom of Marganorre into a matriarchy. Like Britomart, 
Bradamante and Marfisa use their victory for the purposes of social engineering, 
but they transform the society they have dominated in precisely the opposite 
direction of that chosen by Spenser’s heroine. 


Prima ch’indi si partan le guerriere, 
fan venir gli abitanti a giuramento, 
che daranno i mariti alle mogliere 

de la terra e del tutto il reggimento; 

e castigato con pene severe 

sara chi contrastare abbia ardimento. 
In somma quel ch’altrove é del marito 
che sia qui de la moglie é statuito. 


Poi si feccion promettere ch’a quanti 
mai verrian quivi, non darian ricetto, 
o fosson cavallieri, o fosson fanti, 
ne ‘ntrar li lascirian pur sotto un tetto, 
se per Dio non giurassino e per santi, 
o s’altro giuramento v’é pil stretto, 
che sarian sempre de le donne amici, 

e dei nimici lor sempre nimici; 


e s’avranno in quel tempo, e se saranno, 
tardi o pill tosto, mai per aver moglie, 
che sempre a quelle sudditi saranno, 

e ubbidienti a tutte le lor voglie. 

Tomar Marfisa, prima ch’esca 1’anno, 
disse, e che perdan gli arbori le foglie; 
e se la legge in uso non trovasse, 

fuoco e ruina il borgo s’aspettasse. 
S7.115-117) 





Political Decorum in Spenser’ s Imitations of Orlando furioso 155 


(Before the warrior-damsels left they imposed a pledge on the inhabitants--that the 
husbands would make over to their wives the administration of the territory and all 
else. Any man who dared defy this rule would be severely punished. In fact, what 
elsewhere pertains to the husband was here to fall to the wife./Then they extracted a 
promise that whoever happened this way, be he knight or page, would be offered no 
welcome, would be forbidden entry beneath any roof unless he swore by God and the 
saints (or by any oath more binding) that he would ever be Woman’s friend, and 
enemy to her enemies./ If they already had a wife, or if sooner or later they were to 
acquire one, they were ever to be subject to her and obedient to her every fancy. 
Marfisa would be back, she said, before the year was out and the trees had shed their 
leaves; and if she found the law being flouted, the town could expect fire and 
destruction.) 

(Trans. Waldman) 


It is tempting nowadays to contemplate the “subversive” effects of Spenser’s 
echo of this Ariostan passage by making it a “contained” critique of the queen or 
by giving it a life of its own that undermines Spenser’s willful transformation of 
his pre-text into a reaffirmation of patriarchy with the unique exception of the 
divinely chosen queen. However, I think it points as well to another quality of 
Spenser’s imitations of Orlando furioso: their resistance to comprehensive 
theories of their overall dynamics and motivation. Spenser certainly entertained 
emulous ambitions to overgo his Italian precursor, and he certainly wanted to 
sound a recognizably Ariostan note in his moralization of “fierce warres and 
faithfull loves.” But poetic rivalry and affiliation, like the politics of patronage 
and gender, are perspectives that illuminate but do not decisively define the many 
occasions when Spenser has recourse to his chief Italian exemplar. Persuasive 
accounts of Spenser’s growing disenchantment with his celebratory project 
heighten our alertness to any sign of his disaffection with the regime he served, 
and this sense of this poet’s development especially depends on a keen 
responsiveness to indications of discontent in the 1596 installment to The Faerie 
Queene (Helgerson 82-89). Thus, it is tempting to read between the lines of 
Spenser’s exemption of Elizabeth in 5.5.25 the routine tokenism of courtly 
compliment under her rule. The emphatic reinstitution of patriarchy in Radigone 
(5.7.42) supports that interpretation, particularly when we appreciate how it flies 
in the face of the alteration of Marganorre’s realm into a matriarchy. But the 
demonstrable complexities of Spenser’s imitations of Ariosto, like his avowed 
desire to avoid “gealous opinions and misconstructions,” compel a prudent reader 
to respect the willful indirectness of his methods as a writer and to question 
capacious explanations of his motives and meanings in such instances with 
patient exposition of the particular details of any given passage under review. 


University of South Carolina 


156 Lawrence F. Rhu 


Works Cited 


Alpers, Paul. The Poetry of The Faerie Queene. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1967. 

Anderson, Judith. “‘A Gentle Knight was pricking on the plaine’: The Chaucerian 
Connection.” English Literary Renaissance 15.2 (1985): 166-74. 

Ariosto, Ludovico. Orlando furioso. 2nd. ed. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. Torino: Einaudi, 
1971. 

. Orlando furioso. Trans. Guido Waldman. New York: Oxford UP, 1983. 

Ascham, Roger. The Schhoolmaster. The Golden Hind. Rev. ed. Roy Lamson and 
Hallett Smith. New York: Norton, 1956. 79-112. 

Bednarz, James P. “Imitations of Spenser in A Midsummer Night's Dream.” 
Renaissance Drama n.s. 14 (1983): 79-102. 

Bowman, Mary R. “‘she there as Princes rained’: Spenser’s Figure of Elizabeth.” 
Renaissance Quarterly 43.3 (1990): 509-28. 

Castiglione, Baldesar. The Book of the Courtier. Trans. Charles S. Singleton. New 
York: Doubleday, 1959. 

. Il libro del cortegiano. 4th ed. Ed. Vittorio Cian. Firenze: Sansoni, 1947. 

Bloom, Harold. The Anxiety of Influence. New York: Oxford UP, 1973. 

Chaucer, Geoffrey. The Riverside Chaucer. 3rd ed. Ed. Larry Benson et al. Boston: 
Houghton Mifflin Company, 1987. 

Cauchi, Simon. “The ‘Setting Foorth’ of Harington’s Ariosto.” Studies in 
Bibliography 36 (1983): 137-69. 

Davis, Natalie Z. Society and Culture in Early Modern France. Stanford: Stanford UP, 
1975: 

Goldberg, Jonathan. Endlesse Worke: Spenser and the Structures of Discourse. 
Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1981. 

Harvey, Gabriel, and Edmund Spenser. “Three Proper, and Wittie, Familiar Letters.” 
Spenser: Poetical Works. Ed. J. C. Smith and E. de Selincourt. Oxford: Oxford 
UP, 1970. 

Helgerson, Richard. Self-Crowned Laureates: Spenser, Jonson, Milton and the 
Literary System. Berkeley: U of California P, 1983. 

Javitch, Daniel. Proclaiming a Classic: The Canonization of Orlando furioso. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1990. 

Marlowe, Christopher. Edward the Second. Ed. W. Moelwyn Merchant. New York: W. 
W. Norton, 1967. 

McNulty, Robert, ed. Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando furioso Translated into English 
Heroical Verse by John Harington (1591). Oxford: Oxford UP, 1972. 

Milton, John. Complete Poems and Major Prose. Ed. Merritt Y. Hughes. New York: 
The Odyssey Press, 1957. 

Nashe, Thomas. The Unfortunate Traveller and Other Works. Ed. J. B. Steane. 
Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1985. 

Pearsall, Derek. The Canterbury Tales. London: George Allen & Unwin, 1985. 

Maureen Quilligan. “The Comedy of Female Authority.” English Literary Renaissance 
17.1 (Fall, 1987): 156-71. 

Quint, David. “Bragging Rights: Honor and Courtesy in Shakespeare and Spenser.” 
Creative Imitation: New Essays on Renaissance Literature. Ed. David Quint et al. 











Political Decorum in Spenser’ s Imitations of Orlando furioso [S57 


Binghamton: MRTS, 1992. 391-430 

Shakespeare, William. The Riverside Shakespeare. Ed. G. Blakemore Evans. Boston: 
Houghton Mifflin Company,1974. 

Silverman, Lauren. “Spenser and Ariosto: Funny Peril and Comic Chaos.’ 
Comparative Literature Studies 25.1 (1988): 23-34. 

Spenser, Edmund. The Faerie Queene. Ed. Thomas P. Roche. Harmondsworth: 
Penguin, 1987. 

Spenser, Edmund. The Works of Edmund Spenser: A Variorum Edition. Volume 2. Ed. 
Edwin Greenlaw. et al. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1933. 

Wyatt, Sir Thomas. The Complete Poems. Ed. R. A. Rebholz Harmondsworth: 
Penguin, 1978. 

Zatti, Sergio. /I Furioso fra epos e romanzo. Lucca: Maria Pacini Fassi, 1990. 


J 








Albert Russell Ascoli 


Liberating the Tomb: 
Difference and Death in Gerusalemme Liberata* 





Like much Counter-Reformation writing, Tasso’s epic of the Crusaders’ 
conquest of Jerusalem represents and then represses several varieties of 
threatening difference — religious, sexual, racial, psychological, even textual. In 
his fundamental study of the Liberata, Sergio Zatti (1983) has shown that the 
struggle of the ““uniforme cristiano” to overcome the “multiforme pagano,” that 
is, the heterodox multiplicity of the Islamic “other,” can be read as an overt 
allegory of internal difference and otherness. Zatti identifies several strata of 
internal “difference” and deviation — the tensions within the Christian camp 
itself (the “compagni erranti” of Goffredo di Buglione, whom one might be 
tempted to read as so many protestant schismatics [see Quint 1990 & 1993]); the 
tensions within individual characters such as Rinaldo and Tancredi, whose errant 
desires take them beyond the pale of the Christian soldier’s duties; the tensions 
within the poet himself (who identifies himself as a “peregrino errante” in need 
of Duke Alfonso II d’Este’s guidance) and within his poem, with its Armida-like 
recourse to dangerous “fregi,” “‘diletti,” “dolcezze” which compromise and divide 
the orthodox truth and goodness, not to mention the historical factuality, of the 
poem’s subject matter. 

In what follows I will develop Zatti’s argument around the most obvious 
symbolic and narrative foci of the poem: the Holy Sepulchre, and the Crusaders’ 
collective quest to liberate it.! In both intra-textual and inter-textual terms, the 
quest for Christ’s empty tomb constitutes the poem’s culminating confrontation 
with the paradigmatic otherness and difference of death. Moreover, the apparently 
orthodox, devotional, turn to this symbol of a fulfilling life beyond death, a 
unity beyond multiplicity, conceals as well the yearning for liberation and 
release of another sort — an annihilation and dispersal capable of freeing Tasso 
from the vow (voto), the pledged word, the pledge of words, that binds him to 
his ungrateful patron, to the constraints of an orthodox theology, and to a 
counter-Reform poetics of epic unity.” 


* My thanks to John Freccero, David Quint, Walter Stephens, Sergio Zatti, and, especially, 
Barbara Watts for constructive criticisms of earlier drafts of this essay. 
1 The centrality of this image and this quest have only recently identified as such: see Chiappelli: 
esp. 171-75, 178-83, 214n20, 227n46; Hampton: 99-100, cf. 113-15. 

Exegesis of the theme of the voto in the Liberata is also a fairly recent development. In addition 
to the just cited passages from Chiappelli (plus 222n104 and 227-28nn146-51) and Hampton, see 
Raimondi: 201-02 and Langer: 43. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


160 Albert Russell Ascoli 


The key passage for my argument is the very last stanza of the poem, and 
particularly its final two lines: 


Cosi vince Goffredo, ed a lui tanto 

avanza ancor de la diuma luce 

ch’a la citta gia liberata, al santo 

ostel di Cristo i vincitor conduce. 

Né pur deposto il sanguinoso manto 

viene al tempio con gli altri il sommo duce; 

e qui l’arme sospende, e qui devoto 

il gran Sepolcro adora e scioglie il voto. 

(XX.144)? 
(“Thus Goffredo tnumphs; and enough daylight remains for him to conduct the victors 
through the now liberated city to the holy resting place of Christ. Without even 
setting aside his bloody mantle, the highest leader comes to the temple with the 
others; here he hangs up his arms; here, devout, he adores the great Sepulchre and 
fulfills [or ‘is released from’] his vow.”’) 


The adoration of the liberated tomb is the last of a densely packed series of 
climaxes and plot resolutions carried out over the last three cantos, beginning 
with Rinaldo’s return to the Christian camp, his submission to the authority of 
Goffredo, and his success in breaking the enchantment of the Wood of Sharon. 
The walls of the city are then breached by the anti-Babelic siege towers, 
constructed with the timber taken from the now demon-free forest.4 Then comes 
the death of Argante at the hand of Tancredi, and the taking of Jerusalem itself, 
all but the tower of David, by the Crusaders. Now the city must be defended by 
the Crusaders against the massed pagan armies under the general leadership of the 
renegade Emireno. While the battle goes on outside the city, its usurper-king, 
Aladino, is killed and the tower taken. The pagan champions Adrasto, Solimano, 
and Tisaferno are each defeated in turn. The last “champion,” Armida, is 
converted by her erstwhile lover, Rinaldo. Goffredo despatches his counterpart, 
Emireno. He then proceeds, still bloodied, to the Sepulchre to hang up the “arme 
pietose,” with which he was identified in the first line of the poem, and to fulfill 
the vow which he had already named in the twenty-third stanza of the first canto 
as the ultimate goal of the Crusade, in words that are precisely echoed in the 
final line (1.23.7-8, “né sia chi neghi al peregrin devoto / d’adorar la gran tomba 
€ sciorre il voto”; “nor should anyone prevent the devout pilgrim from adoring 
the great tomb and fulfilling [being released from] his vow”; cf. I.1.2 and 
Chiappelli: 214n20). 


3 Tralian quotations are from the Caretti edition. Translations are my own throughout. 

4 For a development of this idea, see Quint 1993: 403n72. In a classic and extremely powerful 
example of Tassian ambivalence, the historical city of Jerusalem stands at once as the typological 
prefiguration of the city of God and as its own symbolic antithesis, Babel-Babylon, particularly in 
the final seige when it is defended against the Christians by the “popol misto” of pagandom. 





Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 161 


There is reason to think that the liberation and adoration of the Sepulchre, at 
least as much as the “liberation of Jerusalem,” should be taken as the central 
action of the poem in Tasso’s own neo-Aristotelian terms (cf. Giamatti: 183).° It 
is the last event in the protracted sequence of closures; it is specifically identified 
as the fulfillment of Goffredo’s, and the “others,” motives in carrying out the 
crusades (releasing them from the vows by which Pope Urban bound them to the 
enterprise — see canto XI.23-24); and, finally, as we have just seen, it echoes 
precisely language which set the poem and its events in motion. We know, in 
fact, that the title, Gerusalemme liberata, was not an authorial choice. The poet 
had earlier thought to call his poem the Goffredo and later he would retitle a 
revised, “authorized” version as Gerusalemme conquistata (Pittoru: 246-251). By 
contrast, in 1581, when the work was first printed, Torquato Tasso was in the 
third year of a forced eight year confinement (1579-1586) to the Hospital of 
Sant’Anna and had no direct part in its publication. As the editor, Angelo 
Ingegneri, who is responsible for affixing the title we know to the poem, noted 
accurately in a preface, the locution “Gerusalemme liberata” does have a strong 
textual basis (Pittoru: 248), deriving from two lines at either end of the poem: in 
the sixteenth stanza of the first canto, Goffredo describes the Crusader’s mission 
as that of “liberar Gierusalem soggetta” (“liberating subject Jerusalem”); while in 
the poem’s final stanza, as we have seen, Goffredo and company pass through “la 
citta gia liberata.” They do so, however, while on their way to the “santo / ostel 
di Cristo,” namely the “gran Sepolcro” itself. And the first two lines of the 
poem define Tasso’s subject as follows: “Canto l’arme pietose e ’1 capitano / che 
‘1 gran sepolcro libero di Cristo” (“I sing the pious arms and the captain who 
liberated the great sepulchre of Christ”; emphasis mine). In any case, as we are 
about to see, the city and the sepulchre converge in symbolic terms, the latter, as 
it were, unveiling and epitomizing the typological and potentially transcendent 
meaning of the former.® 

Entombment, as has often been pointed out, has a fundamental importance 
in the dynamic of the Liberata’s narrative, prominent examples being the 
miraculous tomb which arises to mark and honor the martyrdom of Sveno in 
canto VIII.38-40, and the tomb in which Tancredi places the remains of his 
beloved Clorinda (XII.79, 94-99; cf. XIII.41-43).7 As the young hero, Sveno, 
anticipates the more successful Rinaldo, so his tomb “prefigures in little the 


5 On Tasso’s theoretical commitment to Aristotle’s dictum of unity of action, see Discorsi dell’ Arte 
Poetica, book II, translated in Rhu 1993: esp. 114-20. 

See Derla: 475, “La struttura spaziale della Liberata é ordinata infatti intorno a un centro 
cosmico (Gerusalemme e il Sepolcro di Cristo: il Centro del Centro).”’ Stephens 1989: 193 makes 
the compelling suggestion that the number, 144, of the final stanza has apocalyptic resonance. And 
see note 8 below. 

See Ferguson’s reading of the Clorinda episode (126-30) as well as her treatment of the 
thematics of the sepulchre in lines 27-32 and 55-60 of the “Canzone al Metauro” (74-77). For 
related explorations of the thematics of death in the poem, see Fichter: 143-53; Martinelli: 155-58. 


162 Albert Russell Ascoli 
‘gran sepolcro’” (Hampton: 114). And his martyr’s death represents a heroism 
alternative and, in Tasso’s Counter-Reform ideology, superior to that of the 
heroes of pagan Rome (Hampton: 118). The motif of the sepulchre is, in fact, 
one of the primary means by which Tasso sets his poem in dialectical 
relationship, of resemblance and of difference, to the classical, especially 
Virgilian, epic, whose principal subject is the destruction and foundation of 
cities (as we will see further along, it also positions him in relation to his 
vernacular Italian precursors, especially Dante and Ariosto). 

This relationship with the Aeneid is already in place in the first couplet of 
the poem (quoted above), where it is also clearly articulated in terms of the 
tomb. These lines, of course, closely echo the Virgilian “arma virumque cano,” 
but with the studied introduction of a Christianized “pietas” as qualifier on 
“arme,” and the subsumption of the heroic “‘vir” into the self-sacrificing office of 
“capitan.” The “gran Sepolcro” of line two also, if slightly less obviously, has 
its Virgilian equivalent. As is by now well known, the Latin verb “condere,” 
which designates the foundation of the Roman city in the opening lines of the 
Aeneid (“tantae molis erat Romanam condere gentem” I.33, cf. I.5) also refers to 
burial (e.g., “animamque sepolcro / condimus” III.67-68, cf. VI.152 [Reckford: 
255; Quint 1982: 32]). The word thus bears within itself the fundamental 
Virgilian paradox of the destruction of one city giving way to the birth of 
another, along with the recurring linkage between sacrifice and ritual burial of 
the dead, on the one hand, and on the other, the apotheosis of Rome and its 
rulers. The implication then is that for Tasso the real meaning of Jerusalem, the 
typological “visio pacis” and the figure of the City of God on earth, is 
epitomized by the empty tomb it contains, the promise of eternal life in another 
world made precisely by the sacrificial descent into the vacancy of death in this 
one.® Whereas in Virgil burial is the necessary prelude to the founding of the 
city (illustrated, vividly, for example, in Aeneid, books 5 and 6) — for Tasso the 
Holy Sepulchre is the city of God — while the city of man, as Goffredo points 
out later in his speech defining the crusaders’ mission — is nothing but a tomb 
(cf. Chiappelli: 172-173; Stephens 1989: 193): 


8 On Jerusalem as “visio pacis,” see, for example, Guibert of Nogent: col.25D-26A; Isidore of 
Seville: VIILi.6. For the figurative convergence between the enclosed spaces of the tomb and the 
hortus conclusus, see Chiappelli: 182-84, 229n166. On the typological significance of Tasso’s 
Jerusalem see Giamatti: 183 et passim; Raimondi: 126-28; Fichter: 127, 153; Martinelli: 155; 
Stephens 1989: 193. For a dissenting view, see Murrin: 126. Tasso, in the Apologia in difesa de la 
Gerusalemme liberata, puts it thus: “perché alcuni di loro [i savi] dicono che Gerusalemme, 
secondo vari sensi, ora é nome di citta, ora figura dell’anima fedele, ora della chiesa militante, ora 
della trionfante, non sara stimata vana l’allegoria ch’io ne feci, a la quale posso aggiungere il 
senso che leva in alto: perché nella visione di Goffredo ed in altri luoghi della celeste 
Gerusalemme significo la Chiesa trionfante” (485). See also the Allegoria del poema, translated in 
Rhu 1993: esp. 156-57, 160-61. 





Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 163 


Non edifica quei che vuol gl’imperi 
su fondamenti fabricar mondani, 


. ..ma ben move ruine, ond’egli oppresso 

sol construtto un sepolcro abbia a se stesso. 

(1.25.1-2, 7-8) 
(“He who wants to fabricate empires on worldly foundations, does not build, but 
rather moves ruin — so that, oppressed, he has only built a sepulchre for himself.”) 


Just so, the closing sequence of the Liberata both participates in the 
classical epic tradition, which invariably terminates in death, and in the Christian 
overgoing of that tradition. The /liad, of course, culminates with the deaths of 
Patroklus and Hektor, and above all with the reconciling burial of both when the 
wrath of Achilles is set aside in pity for the sorrow of Priam. The Aeneid ends 
with the “sacrificial” death of Turnus, which clears the way for the union of the 
Trojans and Latins and hence for Rome to arise.? Indeed, the entrance of the 
sword into Turnus’s body is described with the word “condit,” recalling the 
poem’s opening lines and forecasting a founding burial (XII.950). This ending 
had been recently closely imitated by Tasso’s imposing precursor and béte noire, 
Ariosto, in the Orlando furioso,'° and, as we see shall further along, Tasso in 
turn echoes Ariosto’s echoing of Virgil. 

Tasso incorporates the classical versions of epic death and burial in his 
poem, but carefully links them to the otherness of the pagan enemy, rather than 
to the Christian crusaders. As Lauren Seem has recently argued, the death of 
Argante in canto XIX rehearses the Virgilian ending, but also transforms it, by 
removing it from the absolute terminus of the work and by redefining the 
significance of the enemy’s death. In fact, through the death scenes of the 
greatest pagan champions, Solimano as well as Argante, Tasso emphasizes 
specifically classical concepts of dying. With Argante a Stoic ethos prevails 
(“vuol morendo anco parer non vinto” XIX.1; “he wishes even in dying to appear 
undefeated”; ‘““moriva Argante, e tal moriva qual visse” 26; “Argante died, and he 
died just as he had lived”); while with Solimano one canto later we find instead a 
tragic fatalism and despair (XX.73, 104-108). In this case, then, the all-purpose 
alterity of the pagans becomes a figure for the traditional critique of the classical 
world-view from a Christian perspective. 

This contrast between classical and Christian concepts of heroic dying is 


9 In the Apologia (434) Tasso observes that in the poems of Homer and Virgil, the deaths of 
Hector and Tumus are “principalissime.” 

For the imitation of Virgil and a survey of the range of interpretive possibilities in the close of 
the Furioso see Sitterson. Ariosto criticism has been divided between those who stress the poem’s 
plural, “romance” or Ovidian, form (e.g., Javitch 1976 & 1984) and those who insist on the 
importance of the addition of epic, neo-Virgilian elements of structure to the earlier chivalric 
poems of Boiardo and others (Quint 1979; Fichter; Ascoli). See Kallendorf on the question of how 
Virgil was read and rewritten in the Quattrocento and before. 


164 Albert Russell Ascoli 


brought out with special clarity by Tancredi’s insistence that his worthy foe 
Argante be given the ritual burial and the verbal honor, the terrestrial glory, that 
his creed demands: 


... egli mori qual forte 

onde a ragion gli é quell’onor devuto 

che solo in terra avanzo é de la morte. 

(XIX.117.2-4) 
(“he died as a man of strength; whence with reason he is owed that honor which alone 
remains on earth after death.”’) 


In the very next stanza, however, Tancredi stresses the sharp limitations on the 
sheerly nominal fame accruing to his foe, contrasting it with the 
“extraterrestrial” life beyond death available to Christian believer: he says that he 
will now go to Jerusalem 


ché ’] loco ove mori 1’Uomo immortal 

puo forse al Cielo agevolar la strada, 

e sara pago un mio pensier devoto 

d’aver peregrinato al fin del voto. 

(118.5-8) 
(“because the place where the immortal Man died, may perhaps ease the way to 
heaven; and my devout desire [or thought] to have completed a pilgrimage to the end 
of my vow will be appeased”). 


The “devoto/voto” pun which closes the stanza just cited echoes Goffredo’s 
words from the first canto (23.8) and specifically previews the rhymed couplet 
which ends the poem. At the same time, it stands in direct, contrastive relation 
with a rhyme that appears just after Tancredi has killed his pagan foe: 


Ripone Tancredi il ferro, e poi devoto 

ringrazia Dio del trionfal onore; 

ma lasciato di forze ha quasi voto, 

la sanguigna vittoria il vincitore 

(XIX.27) 
(“Tancredi puts away his sword and thanks God devoutly for this triumphal honor; but 
the bloody victory has left the victor almost emptied of strength.”) 


“Voto,” vow, has been replaced by the identically spelled, “voto” (““vuoto” in 
modern Italian, meaning “empty”), indicating Tancredi’s own nearness to a death 
as meaningless as his enemy’s. By fulfilling his vow (voto), Tancredi will 
escape the void (vdto) that has engulfed Argante. 

While the “voto/devoto” rhyme appears several times during the course of 
the poem (for example, at 1.23; II.5; III.70; XI.23), usually recalling the 
Crusaders’ devout vows and thus reminding the reader of the narrative’s ultimate 


Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 165 


telos, the introduction of this punning counterpart is held back until the final 
two cantos, when it suddenly proliferates. As we have just seen it appears in the 
Tancredi/Argante subplot, which recommences in canto XIX when Argante 
pointedly reminds Tancredi that he had violated his promised faith (that is, his 
chivalric vow) to return to battle earlier and accuses him of letting “le promesse 
ir vote” (2.6: “your promises were empty”). It crops up again conspicuously in 
final installment of the Armida/Rinaldo subplot in book XX, where Tasso 
introduces the first and only rhyming of “voto” with “voto” (63.7-8: “lo stral 
volo, ma con lo strale un voto / subito usci, che vada il colpo a voto” “the arrow 
flew [toward Rinaldo], but with the arrow [Armida] let fly a vow that the blow 
should be in vain’). 

A further conjunction of the two homonyms comes in a passage which 
clearly anticipates Goffredo’s laying aside of his “‘arme pietose,” when Tisaferno 
vows to dedicate his arms to “Macon” if he succeeds in killing Rinaldo for 
Armida, a vow destined to remain empty and unfulfilled: 


“qui prego il Ciel che *] mio ardimento aiuti, 

e veggia Armida il desiato scempio: 

Macon, s’io vinco, i’ voto l’arme al tempio.” 

Cosi pregava, e le preghiere ir vote; 

ché ‘] sordo suo Macon nulla n’udiva. 

(113.6-8; 114.1-2) 
(‘Here I pray the Heavens that they aid my boldness and that Armida may witness the 
desired slaughter: Mohammed, if I win I vow my arms to the temple.’ Thus he prayed, 
but the prayers went unfulfilled, because his deaf Mohammed heard nothing of them.’’) 


The emptiness of pagan vows and the vacancy of a meaningless death that awaits 
the neoclassical champions is thus carefully poised by Tasso against the fulfilled 
vows and the emptiness of a tomb that promises eternal life beyond the grave for 
“fedeli” such as Tancredi and Goffredo. The “liberated” sepulchre is at once the 
sign of death and of liberation from death, as of the poem’s participation in and 
alienation from an epic past. And this is true in another sense, as well, one 
which raises more directly a question of poetics and often places the epic poet 
himself before, or even within, a tomb like those he represents. 

Again, we should begin with the Aeneid, which in book VI adopts the 
perspective of the Elysian underworld and of the dead to achieve a clarifying 
vision of Roman history. The Virgilian dead remain oriented toward historical 
life (Dido, Palinurus, Anchises all share this common trait — that they look 
back to their own former lives for meaning), while the cyclicality of 
metempsychosis gives mythic substance to the endless interweaving of death and 
life implied by the fundamental equivocation of a foundation which is also a 
burial.!! Nonetheless, only the gaze from beyond the tomb can fully uncover the 


11 On the classical models of the otherworld which most influenced Virgil, see Homer, Odyssey, 


166 Albert Russell Ascoli 


meaning of Aeneas’ epic mission. And in a famously “cryptic” image of the gate 
of false dreams through which Aeneas returns to the light and to life, Virgil 
tacitly identifies that gaze of death with an ivory and orphic poetics which are 
surely those of his own poem.!2 

Tasso’s understanding of Virgil was heavily mediated, above all through the 
two most powerful post-classical epic poets of the Italian tradition at that time, 
Dante and Ariosto. Dante, of course, set a formidable, if particular, precedent for 
revising the Virgilian epic in Christian terms. He is a constant point of reference 
in Tasso’s theoretical discussions of poetry,!* and, as we shall see, also provides 
the most obvious source for the Gerusalemme’s language and thematics of 
“avowal.” The Commedia, it need hardly be said, openly embraces the 
perspective of the “oltretomba” — turning the excursus of Virgil’s book VI into 
the substance of Dante’s own vision. Death again is the interpreter of life, 
providing the necessary “alienation” to see and understand it. But now rather than 
death bending toward life, the meaning of historical life consists precisely and 
only in its destiny after death (at least at the explicitly doctrinal level). Dante and 
his poem assume the perspective of the “giudizio universale,” neither before nor 
inside the tomb, but beyond it. 

By contrast, Tasso’s immediate precursor, Ariosto, while imitating the end 
of the Aeneid in the conclusive death of Rodomonte, seems to renounce access to 
either the Virgilian or the Dantean perspective of the “oltretomba.” For Quint 
(1979) this ending means nothing more than the inevitability of human dying, 
redeemed neither by the social-political continuity envisioned by Virgil nor by 
the religious (and perhaps also political) transcendence of Dante. I, instead, 
would argue that Ariosto associates his poem’s perspective with the “vocal 
tomba di Merlino” (“the speaking tomb of Merlin” [Ascoli 1987: 361-376]), as 
well as with the ambiguously parodic apocalypse of the “heaven of the moon” 
(264-304). In particular I claim that in canto III of the Furioso Merlin, neither 
alive nor dead, neither saved nor damned, figures the predicament of a poem 


book XI, and Plato’s Myth of Er in Republic, book X, which is also the locus classicus for 
metempsychosis. 

This image has been a perennial crux. My suggestion is that the gate of ivory is anticipated 
associatively by a series of images in Book VI: at lines 645-47 Vergil refers periphrastically to 
Orpheus, priest of Apollo and archetypal poet, mentioning specifically his “ivory quill” ("pectine . . 
. ebumo"), which clearly anticipates the “porta . . . eburna” of VI.898. Orpheus is also mentioned 
earlier (VI.119-20), there with suggestive reference to his attempt to bring his dead wife back to 
the land of the living, out of Hades. For parallels between Aeneas’ descent to Hell and Orpheus’, 
see Putnam, 41-48, who does not note this particular connection. Orpheus’ descent is recounted at 
length in Georgics IV, where he is clearly linked qua poet-figure to Virgil himself. Reinforcing the 
general theme of vatic song and artistic creation are the description of Daedalus’ carvings (14- 
33), as well as the encounter with Musaeus, “optime vates,” and other prophetic singers (661-76) 
in Elysium. The ivory gate is anticipated by the vision of the tree of false dreams at lines 281-94. 

3 See, for example, Discorsi dell’arte poetica, translated in Rhu 1993: esp. 119, 139, 142-45. See 
Looney. 





Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 167 


which has survived its author’s death but cannot transcend his limited, living, 
perspective to give final interpretation either to the meaning of history or to the 
possibility of a life beyond this one. 

Tasso’s sepulchre, one might then say, reflects a poetics that yearns for epic 
totality and Dantean transcendence but that feels its own greater proximity, 
historical and otherwise, to the errors of Ariostan romance and to the perspective 
of mortality.!4 Like Dante’s poem, Tasso’s tomb is the sign that true meaning 
and true life dwell beyond history. Like Ariosto’s poem, however, Tasso’s 
remains essentially within the confines of temporality (Greene: 191-192; 
Murrin: 126). Although the author introduces both the divine and the demonic 
perspectives into the poem, his characters encounter it principally in dream, and 
rarely step beyond it literally.!° Tasso’s theoretical discussions of epic, in fact, 
insist programmatically on the necessary “historicity” of its subject, while 
allowing for the introduction of incidental fictions.!° In Tasso’s poem, the tomb 
is not just the beginning of a journey, as it is for Dante — it is the textual 
endpoint. You may be able to go beyond it, but Tasso’s poetry cannot take you, 
or him, there. 

So far I have made a relatively loose, associative connection between 
Dantean and Ariostan poetics of “oltretomba” and “tomba,” respectively, and 
Tasso’s terminal image. But there are more specific textual connections that link 
the Crusaders’ and especially Goffredo’s quest for the tomb with, on the one 
hand, both of Tasso’s Italian precursors, and, on the other, with the poet’s own 
narrative quest to complete the Liberata. The crucial link, again, is the concept 
of the “vow,” or “voto.” The Crusaders’ vow is clearly, as Aquinas defines it, “a 
promise made to God,” a paradoxical act of human will which is a “sacrifice of 
the will,” voluntarily enslaving the soul to God by a commitment to do (or not 
to do) something.!” It is analogous to and yet sharply distinguished from the 
ethos of Stoic-chivalric “fides,” or pledged word, which guides the “cavallieri” of 
romance, Ariostan and otherwise.!8 It is also, as we shall see, potentially 
assimilable to the problem of linguistic and especially poetic referentiality and 


14 For Tasso’s complex attitude toward Ariosto’s romance (which he insisted on seeing as failed 
epic), see Ferguson 1983: esp. 54, 62-70; Quint 1983: 102-06, 116-17; Langer: 43-44; Zatti 1991: 
203-16. On his attitude toward the epic/romance question, see Discorsi dell’ arte poetica, translated 
in Rhu 1993: esp. 120-34; and, in addition to the previously cited critics, Fichter: 153 and Looney 

5 Even the magical aids of the “Mago d’Ascalona” remain technically within the realm of the 
natural, using sublunary Fortune as a primary agent (on the Mago, see Quint 1983: esp. 94-97). 

On Tasso’s complex sense of the relation between historical fact and the matter of poetry, see 
especially his Discorsi dell’ arte poetica, book 1, translated in Rhu 1993. See also Durling: 192-195 
and note 38 below. 

i Aquinas ILI q. 88, esp. art. 1. For Aquinas, vows are a subspecies of sacrifice (II-II. q.85), as 
they are for Dante as well (Paradiso V.43-44). Thus it is not surprising that Tasso’s “voto” figures 
as both “promise and offering” (pace Langer: 43). 

On Tasso’s general relation to the sixteenth century instantiation of the chivalric code of honor, 
see Erspamer 1982. On his attitudes toward chivalric romance, see note 14 above. 


168 Albert Russell Ascoli 


intentionality, both on the “metaphoric” axis of external reference (poet’s word 
corresponds to historical reality or not) and on the “metonymic” axis of internal 
unity effected through narrative (poem’s ending corresponds, or not, to what is 
promised at its beginning).!9 

The Tassian language of avowal, as I have described it so far, clearly derives 
from Dante’s Heaven of the Moon, where dwell souls (Piccarda de’ Donati; the 
Empress Constance) who were by force constrained to break religious vows and 
thus are placed in the lowest realm of the blessed. Note particularly the “voto” / 
“voto” pun that will become so crucial for Tasso: 


E questa sorte che par gill cotanto, 
pero n’é data, perché fuor negletti 
li nostn voti, e voti in alcun canto. 
(Paradiso II1.55-57) 
(“And this lot, which appears so lowly, is given to us because our vows were 
neglected and void in some particular")?° 


That Dantean episode, not coincidentally, had earlier become a principal source 
for Ariosto’s parodically transcendent representation of the inconstancy of human 
minds and words in his famous lunar episode (Orlando furioso XXXIV.67- 
XXXV.31), where, prominent among the other items in the junk heap of 
vanities, are “infiniti prieghi e voti . . ./ che da noi peccatori a Dio si fanno 
(XXXIV.74.7-8: “infinite prayers and vows ... which we sinners make to God”; 
see also 82.6).?! 

It is important to note here how Tasso’s treatment of vows borrows 
elements from both predecessors but also alters them.2? In Paradiso III-V, Dante 
represents salvation achieved in spite of contingent historical disruptions in the 
“sacrifice of the will” to God which is effected by a religious “voto.” Moreover, 
he also warns stringently, in what may well have appeared to a reader from 
Tasso’s time a signally pre-Lutheran moment, against making vows that cannot 
and should not be fulfilled (Paradiso V.64-73).23 By contrast, the Christian 


197 adapt Jakobson’s distinction between the metaphoric and metonymic poles of language. 

Text and translation of the Commedia are taken from Singleton. I am indebted to Walter 
Stephens and to John Freccero for insisting on the importance of Paradiso III-V for understanding 
the “voto/véto” connection in Tasso. I have found Freccero’s suggestions concerning the poetics 
articulated in the early cantos of Paradiso particularly helpful in developing my argument. 
Ferguson points to Tasso’s allusion to Dante’s Piccarda in the dialogue Del piacere onesto, again in 
connection with his father’s “involuntary” breaking of obligations (91). 

Citations are taken from the Bigi edition of Orlando furioso. On this aspect of the episode see 
Ascoli: 264-304, esp. 285-286 and nn. 

For a subtle discussion of Tasso’s interweaving of Dantean and Ariostan pretexts in another 
connection, see Looney. See also Ferguson: 57, 106-107 et passim. 

23 Admittedly, even Aquinas (II.II.q.88) puts some qualifications on what vows are appropriate 
and to whom. 


Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 169 


cavaliers of the Liberata, at least when they are not “erranti,” prove their faith 
and ensure their salvation by fulfilling their vows, while only the pledges of 
pagan infidels remain “vuoti.” By insisting on the successful fulfillment of 
vows, Tasso clearly rejects the Ariostan satire that threatens to generalize 
Dante’s limited acceptance of human weakness and inconstancy in Paradiso III-V 
to such an extent that it infects and undermines all religious commitments and 
the belief on which they are founded. But the very vehemence and rigor of his 
representations of Goffredo’s constancy suggests that he was in some ways 
persuaded by Ariosto’s serious, if comically articulated, critique of Dante’s 
treatment of vows: he simply cannot allow for the possibility of a salvation 
achieved despite the incompleteness of a vow or the outright failure to fulfill 
it. Tasso, haunted by the specter of heterodoxy, yearning for a transcendence of 
which, however, he can permit himself only the most fugitive glimpses (e.g. 
I.7-17; XIV.2-19; XX.20-21), finds it crucial to make word match deed in God’s 
(or the Inquisition’s or the Duke’s) eyes. Refusing alike the accommodating 
mysteries of Dante and the comfortable demystifications of Ariosto, which 
perhaps bear a troubling resemblance to the protestant, and especially Lutheran, 
attacks on religious vows as needless vanities, he represents the making and 
keeping of vows as not only possible and desirable, but indeed as necessary. For 
Tasso, it seems, vows provide an essential structure and order for defining and 
grounding human selves otherwise divided by doubts and corrupted by sensual 
delights and violent passions.” 

Furthermore, in both Dante’s heaven of the moon and Ariosto’s calque on 
it, a thematics of vows and human inconstancy gives rise to reflections on the 
nature of poetic referentiality which, at least implicitly, create a problematic 
analogy between the word of promise and the poet’s fictions. The case of the 
souls who have left unfulfilled the letter of a vow but whose “absolute will” 
(IV.109) still cleaves inwardly to God, frames and parallels the account of the 
metaphorical quality of Scriptural reference, where a failure of referential 
adequation still points toward the invisible Truth of God: 


Cosi parlar conviensi al vostro ingegno, 


24 tt is, however, true, as Hampton points out (107-08), that Goffredo must give up a “personal” 
vow to fight as a common soldier in order to fulfill the greater demands of the collective vow to 
liberate the Holy Sepulchre. On “Goffredo’s error” in canto XI, and the place of this individual 
vow in that larger context, see Bruscagli, esp. 221-22. 

It is in this sense that we should interpret Tasso’s hyperbolic outburst in the Apologia: 
“rompendosi il giuramento si guasterebbe il mondo” (423). Conversely, it illuminates his reluctance 
to make a commitment conceming a possible change of patrons in a letter to Scipione Gonzaga of 
24 March 1576: “non volendo prometter io cosa che non volessi osservare con la mia rina, non mi 
risolvo di venire ad una risoluta promessa .. .” and “non mi /egaré con nuovo nodo cosi forte, 
ch’io non mi possa con buona occasione disciorre” (#57 in Guasti ed.; emphasis mine). Note the 
metaphorics of binding and loosing that accompany the voto of the Liberata as well; cf. notes 26, 
29 & 35 below. 


170 Albert Russell Ascoli 


pero che solo da sensato apprende 
cio che fa poscia d’intelletto degno. 
Per questo la Scrittura condescende 

a vostra facultate, e piedi e mano 

attribuisce a Dio e altro intende. . . . 

(IV.40-45) 
(“It is needful to speak thus to your faculty, since only through sense perception does 
it apprehend that which it afterwards makes fit for the intellect. For this reason 
Scripture condescends to your capacity, and attributes hands and feet to God, having 


” 


other meaning. . . .”) 


And, as Freccero points out, this account of Scriptural figures is applied 
explicitly and a fortiore to Dante’s own representations of the blessed, and thus 
“the whole of Paradiso ... has no existence, even fictional, beyond the 
metaphoric” (211; cf. 222). Much like Piccarda and Constance, Dante cannot 
make his “words of promise,” his “poema sacro,” coincide completely with 
reality. 

As I have argued elsewhere, Ariosto’s “allegory of poets and theologians” in 
the lunar episode turns precisely this acknowledgement of the non- 
correspondence of human language and intellect to divine referent against the 
authoritative texts in which faith should be grounded and which claim to offer a 
referential bridge between human history and God’s eternity — first of all the 
Commedia itself, everywhere echoed and nowhere taken seriously — but also, 
more devastatingly, the New Testament, whose most authoritative scribe, St. 
John of the Gospel and of Revelations, is on hand to reduce himself and his texts 
to the status of lying flattery (Ascoli: 285-291). 

Tasso too moves analogically from the domain of his narrative and thematic 
representations into a consideration of the status of the poetics that subtends 
those representations, and in a way that suggests he has both Dante and 
Ariosto’s critique of Dante in mind as he does so. Just as at the thematic level, 
so at that of “metapoetics” Tasso moves anxiously between his two 
predecessors. While he is, like Dante, trying to write a poem that is 
unequivocally Christian, and thus cannot include Ariosto’s playful near-sacrilege, 
he has also taken to heart the Furioso’s exposé of the dangers inherent in 
claiming access through human words to ultimate Truth, and especially the mad 
pride of putting poetry at or near the level of sacred Scripture, or of adopting a 
transcendent, eschatological perspective that begins to resemble God’s own. The 
consequence of such considerations is that noted above: the abandonment of the 
perspective of the “oltretomba” in favor of a quest for a “gran tomba” which, 
however, gestures beyond itself to a higher reality of eternal life. 

It is not surprising, especially in light of the Dantean and Ariostan 
“pretexts” just discussed, that Tasso’s metapoetic concerns appear most 
explicitly in the incomplete and uneasy parallel between the Crusader’s vow to 
take Jerusalem and his commitment to write the poem in which the story of 


Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 171 


their vow and its consequences is narrated (Chiappelli: 178-181; Langer: 43-44; 
Zatti 1983: 93 & 1991: 207-208). In the fourth stanza of the first canto, Tasso 
makes one of his rare first person appearances in the poem, in order to define his 
own and his text’s relationship to their patron, Duke Alfonso II d’Este: 


Tu, magnanimo Alfonso, il qual ritogli, 

al furor di fortuna e guidi in porto 

me peregrino errante, e fra gli scogli 

e fra l’onde agitato e quasi absorto, 

queste mie carte in lieta fronte accogli, 

che quasi in voto a te sacrate 1’ porto 

[emphasis mine]. 
(You, magnanimous Alfonso, who remove me from the fury of Fortune and guide me, 
a wandering pilgrim, to port, who had been tossed and almost consumed among the 
waves and cliffs, gather up with a glad countenance these my pages which I bring 
consecrated to you almost as a vow.”) 


Tasso’s wandering or errant pilgrimage is thus a shakier version of that of the 
“peregrin devoto” who Goffredo soon after imagines seeking out the Sepulchre in 
safety (1.23) — his offering “quasi in voto” to Alfonso a less stable variant on 
that generic pilgrim’s, and Goffredo’s own, vow. The substance of the “voto” is 
first of all a commitment to writing a poem, this poem. But the “carte .. . 
sacrate” — consecrated if not truly sacred — figure not only as the fruit of a 
vow, but as the verbal record of that vow, both the promised words and the 
words of promise themselves. Otherwise put, Tasso dramatizes his poem as a 
vow to be fulfilled, a word to be kept. Thus, when Goffredo “scioglie il voto” 
with the simultaneous liberation of Jerusalem and the Sepulchre, Tasso 
analogically fulfills, and is thus symbolically released from, his vow as well, as 
he completes his representation of Goffredo’s vow and its fulfillment (Martinelli: 
13 & 17). 

To understand more fully the significance of this convergence between the 
narrative that Tasso writes and the “metanarrative” of Tasso’s writing, we need to 
consider further why it is that the poem focuses so intensely on the “voto” or 
vow and especially why it is so consistently paired with the action of 
“scioglimento”2° — literally the release or dissipation which signifies the 
fulfillment of a vow but also denotes its annihilation. As I began to suggest 
above, a vow is a formal promise that binds and constrains the one who makes it 
to transform a word or metaphorically verbal intention into an internal and 
external reality.2’ In Tasso’s world, then, the chivalric pledge or promise of faith 


26 On the recurrence of the verb “sciogliere” and derivatives in the poem, see Chiappelli: 153-54. 
27 tn the Apologia Tasso defines “giuramento” (which though not identical with “voto” is related 
to it) as “un parlare confermato co 'l nome di dio, o vero un parlare con venerazione divina che 
non riceve altra pruova: e colui pare che pecchi in estremo grado, il quale fa giuramento falso” 


172 Albert Russell Ascoli 


(“fede”) which dominates the world of Ariosto (where it is, however, almost 
always violated or contaminated)*® is conflated with and/or superseded by the 
Christian believer’s “voto" — just as the cavalier’s aimless errancy is replaced 
by the Crusader’s directed pilgrimage. The human word of promise thus looks to 
ground itself in the Logos, the Word of God. 

In either case, chivalric or Christian, the paradigmatic narrative structure of 
the “‘voto” should be clear (cf. Hampton: 98-100). Between the pilgrim-crusader’s 
pledged word and its fulfillment lies the story told in Tasso’s poem, between 
Tasso’s poetic “voto” and its conclusion — and its hoped for coincidence with 
historical and/or transcendent reality — lie the words of the Liberata themselves. 
In this connection it is crucial that Tasso consistently uses the verb “sciogliere” 
and derivatives in his theoretical discussions of the “unfolding” and “tying 
together” of narrative form, and that this word marks the parallel between 
religious and poetic quests just as strongly as the echoes of “voto” do.”? At the 
same time, “scioglimento” is itself a name for the liberation that both the 
Crusaders and the poet seek — by achieving the freedom of city and tomb from 
the oppression of the “Other,” Goffredo and the Crusaders achieve their own 
freedom from the constraint, their freely assumed bondage, to fulfill a word of 
promise; by “tying together” the various loose ends resolved in cantos XVIII- 
XX, Tasso paradoxically unties the knot (“scioglie il nodo”) of narrative 
complication into the simplicity of unity and the silence of ending. 

It is no accident then that the terminus of both vows, the scene of their 
liberating “scioglimento” is the Holy Sepulchre: “adorar ’] gran sepolcro e 
scioglie il voto.”2° The freedom of release from a binding vow is closely 


(423). Compare Cicero’s definition of “fides, id est dictorum conventorumque constantia et 
veritas” and especially the Stoic etymology which he gives for the word, “quia fiat, quod dictum 
est, appellatam fidem” (De officiis I.vii.23: “faith, that is, constancy and truth in what is spoken and 
what is agreed,” “Because it calls into being what is spoken, it is called faith”; my translation). 
Faith in this active, moral sense is the virtuous agency which makes it possible to fulfill a promise 
or vow, religious, political, or otherwise. 

For “fede” as the paradigmatic value of the Furioso see Saccone 1974 and 1983. For a critique 

of that account, see Bonifazi, Ascoli 1987, esp. 285-86, 329-31 and nn, Zatti 1990: 95-106 and nn. 
Ferguson (62-70) is especially valuable on this score in her discussion of Tasso’s attack on the 
confused faith of Ruggiero in his Apologia (esp. 422-25), which she sees as connected to his own 
father’s catastrophically divided loyalties. 
29 Zatti 1983: 123 & n. Relevant examples are in the Apologia, “‘Aristotile parla di quella necessita 
senza la quale non si potrebbe legare o sciogliere la favola” (453), and in several of the Lettere, 
notably that of 16 September 1575 to Luca Scalabrini (#45 in Guasti ed.), with its discussion of the 
“soluzione per macchina.” In the latter text Tasso makes the metaphor of narrative promise 
explicit: “Il poeta fornisce come comincia, e osserva quel che prometta” (107). 

In light of Zatti’s compelling findings (1992) concerning the representational, poetic 
associations of the word “manto” and the systematic echoes which invest both landscape and 
characters with those associations (cf. IV.25.8: “[Armida] fa manto del ver alla menzogna”), 
perhaps we should add the phrase describing Goffredo’s still-bloody garb (“né pur deposto il 
sanguinoso manto” XX.144.5) to the list of terms that create a doubling between Goffredo’s story 


Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 173 


identified in the text with the corporeal disintegration of a physical death, albeit 
one whose ultimate significance is eternal life. The application to the story of “1 
capitan” is clear enough. The death of the historical Goffredo took place in the 
year following the conquest of Jerusalem (1099). And within Tasso’s text the 
character’s physical demise is already predicted during the appearance of Ugone in 
canto XIV, where it is directly contrasted with the possibility of earthly rule over 
the conquered Jerusalem, which devolves upon his otherwise undistinguished 
brother.*! For Goffredo, presumably, the adoration of the Tomb and his release 
into death signify the departure from the pain of this world into the beatitude of 
the next, and perhaps as well the transcendence of the constraints of impersonally 
allegorical “role-playing.” As “capitan,” we know, he plays head to Rinaldo’s 
hand throughout the poem, and in the final lines he is still the “sommo duce” 
who leads (“‘conduce”) the others (“altri”) into the blessed anonymity of 
individual redemption.*2 

For Tasso, by contrast, the meaning of this conclusive release out of 
narrative and of language itself is not so obvious. His “carte” after all, were only 
offered “quasi in voto” (1.4.6), and, at least as he presents them at the beginning 
of the poem, they are only a pledge in earnest, the avowal of a future vow, of 
something else to be written — the story of Alfonso’s successful “emulation” of 
Goffredo’s Crusade (cf. Langer: 44). Moreover, as a “peregrino errante” (who not 
once but twice in a single stanza uses the word “quasi” of himself [cf. 1.4.4: 
“quasi absorto”]), he dwells uncertainly between the “cavallieri erranti” who 
populate Ariosto’s seemingly endless romance (and who are apparently never 
able to make faithfully pledged word and historical reality coincide) and the 
“peregrino devoto” who is the hero of the Liberata.*? 

My final gloss on the last line of the Liberata will require yet another detour 
out of Tasso’s poem and back into Orlando furioso. Attention has recently been 
called to the Ariostan reminiscence in Liberata canto 1, stanza 4 — showing that 


and Tasso’s story-telling. 

lin XX.20, Goffredo concluding his hortatory speech to the troops has his head surrounded by a 
lampant halo of light which some take to be a sign of future rule (“segno / alcun pensollo di futuro 
regno”), which, however, the reader will take figuratively, already alerted to the imminence of 
Goffredo’s death. 

2 On the vexed question of the deployment of political and moral allegory in the poem, see Derla, 
Murrin, Rhu 1988, and Stephens 1991, contra. 

3 See Klopp; Chiappelli: 180-81 & 224n154; Zatti 1983: 96-97, 112. Langer puts it succinctly: 
“Tasso recasts the poet figure as ‘peregrino,’ but cannot avoid adding the ambiguous ‘errante,’ 
which is not only a depiction of Christian life as a peregrination between birth and death, but also 
recalls Ariosto’s ‘errare sempre’ (XLVI.1.6)” (44). As Ferguson notes, in the Apologia Tasso 
applies the word “peregrino” to express his own sense of alienation, corporeal and familial: 
“invoco la memoria, come fanno i poeti, e colui [Bemardo Tasso] che me la diede insieme con 
l’intelletto, quando il mando ad abitare in questo corpo quasi peregrino” (426). See also the 
autobiographical “Canzone al Metauro,” line 4, where Tasso describes himself as “fugace 
peregrino.” 


174 Albert Russell Ascoli 


Tasso’s initial hope to be brought into safe haven after voyaging on dangerous 
seas clearly echoes Ariosto’s image of a return to friendly shores after a long, 
“errant,” voyage on the open ocean of poetry at the beginning of the forty-sixth 
and final canto of the Furioso (Langer: 43-44; Zatti 1991: 206-208). Tasso’s 
“voto” to his patron thus corresponds and responds to Ariosto’s hope “nel lido i 
voti scioglier” (“to fulfill my vows [by arriving] on the shore”), which in turn 
refers us back to the reference to a promise made to his patron, Cardinal Ippolito 
d’Este, in the second stanza of the Furioso’s first canto. In this way, Tasso 
expresses the terrors of romance error — the straying of poetic multiplicity, 
heterodoxy, and difference that he consistently associates in his theoretical 
writings with Ariosto — only in order to avoid them, apotropaically.** But if 
Tasso begins where Ariosto ends, he ends there as well, since the closing lines 
of the Liberata echo the Furioso just as directly as the opening stanzas do, the 
Ariostan “nel lido i voti scioglier spero” recurring in the Tassian “scioglie il 
voto.”3° 

At one level, these repetitions means that Tasso’s obsession with the error 
which he attempts to project onto the poetic “Other,” Ariosto, has not been 
overcome by poem’s close, and remains a haunting presence internal to the 
Liberata. But it means something else as well. Despite the celebratory scene that 
Ariosto projects for the arrival of his “carte” on the poetic shoreline where its 
courtly readers await it, the “scioglimento” of vows has a darker side for him 
too. In fact, the “lido” of courtly readers is haunted by an accompanying reference 
to the banks of the river Styx (Furioso XLVI.9.5-6) — that is, to the possibility 
that the real terminus of Ariosto’s poetic journey is precisely death (Ascoli 
1987: 364-365; cf. Quint 1979). And indeed the metaphor of “scioglimento” 
returns again in the very last stanza of the poem, where the embittered soul of 
the dying Rodomonte is described as “‘sciolta dal corpo pit freddo che ghiaccio” 
(140.6: “released from the body, colder than ice”; emphasis mine) as he 
plummets down to that other river of the dead, Acheron. Ariosto’s solution to 
this threat, I have argued, is first to defer the moment of deathly “scioglimento” 
as long as possible, but also to figure the poem itself as “vocal tomba,” the 
loquacious sepulchre which goes on speaking long after its author’s life has 
ended. 

Like Ariosto before him, Tasso obliquely confronts the abyss between 
language and death precisely at the point when his poem is drawing to its close. 
A number of passages are suggestive in this regard,*© but an unusually dense 


34 See note 14 above. 

As we have already begun to see, the final canto of Tasso’s poem is in fact thick not only with 
“vou” but also with the imagery of “scioglimento,” and the synonymous “solvere,” in a variety of 
contexts, e.g., stanzas 71,91, 101, 102, 105, 135-36, 144. 

For example: 33.7-8, “poi fér la gola e tronca al crudo Alarco / de la voce e del cibo il doppio 
varco”; 39.5-8, “Trafitto é . . . insin 14 dove il riso / ha suo principio, e 'l cor dilata e spande,/ 
talché (strano spettacolo ed orrendo!)/ ridea sforzato e si moria ridendo”; See also 51.5-8; 56.7-8; 


Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 175 


constellation of references occurs in a six stanza stretch near the end of canto 
XX. Gildippe and Odoardo, “amanti e sposi,” dying by the hand of Solimano 
“vorrian formar, né pon formar parole” (100.3: “would like to form words, but 
are unable to do so”). Failure to speak is here, as often, the clear index of 
impending death. Their deaths, however, unleash the words of others: “Allor 
scioglie la Fama i vanni al volo; le lingue al grido” (101.1-2: “then Fame 
releases her wings to flight, and tongues to shouting”; emphasis mine). The 
locution “scioglie . . . il volo” obviously anticipates “scioglie il voto,”3” while 
creating a defining contrast with it. Fama, the notoriously unreliable 
personification of the public circulation of language which purports to bear 
witness to the significant events of history, but in fact indiscriminately mixes 
truth with falsehood (see Aeneid IV.173-197, esp. 190 “pariter facta atque infecta 
canebat”), is the demonized opposite of voto, the private performance of a given 
linguistic promise — which, when successful, precisely converts word into deed, 
establishing iron bonds of reference. The juxtaposition of the two moments may 
well recall the opening ambivalence of the Tassian narrator who seeks pardon for 
adding “fregi al ver” (1.2.7), contaminating truth with fiction, moral teaching 
with illicit pleasure** — an ambivalence from which the poet hopes to be 
released precisely by the fulfillment of his narratological vow. 

The episode in fact begins with an apostrophe to the defunct Gildippe and 
Odoardo, in which the narrator makes one of his rare appearances: 


Gildippe ed Odoardo, i casi vostri 

duri ed acerbi e i fatti onesti e degni 

(se tanto lice a i miei toscani inchiostri) 

consacrero fra’ peregrini ingegni, 

si ch’ogn’eta quasi ben nati mostri 

di virtute e d’amor v’additi e segni, 

e co ‘] suo pianto alcun servo d’Amore 

la morte vostra e le mie rime onore. 

(94; emphasis mine) 
(“Gildippe and Odoardo, if so much is permitted to my Tuscan pen, I will consecrate 
your harsh and bitter fates and your noble and worthy deeds among those of rare wit, 
so that every age will point you out and signal you as excellent examples of virtue 
and of love, and [so that] some servant of Love may, with his tears, honor your death 
and my rhymes.”’) 


These lines position the narrator’s poetic language at a mid-point between the 


77.3-5; 89.7-8. 

See XX.63.7-8, cited above in the text, for an explicit juxtaposition of “voto” and “volo” earlier 
in the same canto. 

On the ambivalent poetics defined in I.2, see Zatti 1983: esp. 34-37; on the Tassian obsession 
with a language of “dissimulation” where truth and falsehood intertwine indistinguishably, see 
Erspamer 1989 and Zatti 1992. See Greene: 180. 


176 Albert Russell Ascoli 


consecrating efficacy of avowal (“consacrero fra’ peregrini ingegni,” with a 
double echo of 1.4) and the divulgative function of Fama. Moreover, they set up 
a suggestive parallel between the represented death and the representing rhymes 
(“la morte vostra e le mie rime onore”). 

Immediately after the slaughter of the married heroes, their murderer, 
Solimano, witnesses Adrasto’s mortal failure to “solver[e] della vendetta i voti” 
against Rinaldo (102.5: “to be released [by fulfillment] from the vows of 
vengeance”), and soon finds himself doomed too, unable to speak out for fear: 
“scioglier talor la lingua e parlar vole,/ ma non seguon la voce o la parola” 
(105.7-8: “he yearns to loose his tongue and speak, but words and voice do not 
follow”; emphasis mine). The power of Tasso’s “arte musaica” binds together, in 
the space of five stanzas, four key terms that all begin with “vo” (volo, voti, 
vole, voce) making absolutely clear the link between failure of voice and end of 
life, and along with them the disappearance of the willing (vole) self that, we 
have already seen, both affirms and negates itself in the making of a vow. The 
negative, even tragic, implications of vows unfulfilled and words unpronounced 
are articulated largely in relation to the pagan champion Solimano (as the 
“voto/vuoto” pun was earlier to Argante and Tisaferno) and they certainly 
contrast with the fulfillment of Goffredo’s Christian vow, even as they prepare 
us to appreciate its full implications. What is, again, not so clear is their 
relation to the near-vow of the Tassian narrator to which the repeated emphasis 
on voice links them even more closely than to Goffredo’s. 

For the narrator-poet as “peregrino errante,” to “scioglier il voto” at poem’s 
end may be as much as to “scioglier la lingua,” that is, to transcend death, 
Ariosto-like, by proving that one can still speak through one’s surviving 
books.*° But this is not the point where the narrator begins to speak, but rather 
that where he ceases to do so. We have already seen that to fulfill a vow is also 
to be released from the bondage of words — to be precisely free to remain silent 
at last, to exchange the “voto” for what Tasso has carefully identified as its 
sonorous opposite and double, the “vuoto” or void — and thus to lose oneself in 
the nullity of the tomb.*° Like Goffredo in his earlier vision of the “cittadini de 
la citta celeste,” the Heavenly Jerusalem of which this one is merely a 
prefiguring type, Tasso yearns to be free not only from a vow but also from 
terrestrial life itself: “il mortal laccio / sciolgasi omai” (XIV.7.7-8: “let the 
mortal knot be loosed at last”; emphasis mine). In other words, to recognize the 


39 For an explicit and wildly overdetermined Tassian variant on this humanistic topos see the 
Apologia, “mio padre, il quale é morto nel sepolcro, si pud dire ch’é vivo nel poema, chi cerca 
d’offendere la sua poesia, procura dargli morte un altra volta” (415), as well as the gloss of 
Ferguson 59-60. 

Compare the brief, suggestive remarks of Raimondi: “il motivo del ‘voto’ percorre tutto il 
poema e ne fissa ora limpidamente ]’ultima nota . . . di 14 dal quale ricominicia forse il conflitto 
delle ambivalenze e delle contraddizioni che il racconto ha tentato di sciogliere prima di 
approdare al silenzio, dove il fine € veramente origine” (201). 





Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 177 


echo of an Ariostan “pre-text” in the final line of the Liberata is to understand 
that Goffredo and Tasso have each pursued quests to fulfill and to be released 
from vows which have the empty tomb, metonym both of death and of its 
possible transcendence, as their telos.4! But it is also to notice that what this 
relentless drive to be released from vow, narrative, and life means for the narrator 
is finally far less certain and reassuring than it is for the “Captain.” 

For Ariosto no vows, including his own, can be fulfilled, since word never 
truly coincides with deed, poem never fully intersects with history, much less 
what may lie beyond it. By accepting the contradiction at the heart of language 
that makes truth and falsehood, goodness and corruption, unity and multiplicity, 
sameness and alterity inseparable companions, Ariosto can luxuriate in the 
protracted deviations of romance. His “lucido intervallo” of writing (Furioso 
XXIV.3.4) is then actually a genial madness which by accepting its own alterity 
is able to forestall, for a time, the terminal difference of death, and then to 
reconcile it with the disembodied voice that lingers on in verse. 

Tasso knows just as well as Ariosto the irrepressible differences within his 
own language — the contamination of truth and goodness with fictional “‘fregi” 
and seductive “diletti.” But for him the threat of difference, whether textual, or 
psychological (in the form of impending madness), or religious (in the form of 
the heterodoxy he seeks to purge to the point of submitting himself voluntarily 
to the Inquisition), or political (in the form of his tormented relationship with 
Duke Alfonso ID), or all of the above, leads him in another direction entirely, one 
quite in keeping with the age of academic culture, despotic courts, and Counter- 
Reform in which he lived. From beginning to end of the Liberata, he pursues the 
liberating and enslaving closure of a narrative vow, which will bring together 
word and reality,4? abolishing all threatening otherness, sheltering him, as 
Alfonso could not, from the destiny of the “peregrino errante.”4? From 


4] My reading here is influenced, if not fully determined, by Walter Benjamin’s understanding of 
how, in the Baroque period, the allegory of transcendent Presence gave place to the allegory of 
death and absence. Schematically, Tasso might be said to be “pre-Baroque” in the sense of 
hovering at a threshold between representing Othemess as divine presence, on the one hand, and, 
on the other, as the staring vacancy of the tomb. I would wish, in any case, to be more prudent than 
Benjamin, by taking at face value the traditional symbolism of the Holy Sepulchre, but also to insist 
that the incompleteness of the analogy between Goffredo’s vow and quest and Tasso’s (“quasi in 
voto,” etc.) opens the way to a freer interpretation of the latter’s relationship to the poem’s 
terminal image. 
42 Stephens 1991 has argued that against the “alieniloquium” of allegory, Tasso sought to develop 
a sacramental “system of poetic signification that, in its own terms, was designed to unify 
Gerusalemme liberata by bridging the gap between signifier and signified” (247). I have suggested 
that this is precisely the problematic which develops around the vow, which also shares the 
sacrificial character of sacrament. Applying my conclusions to Stephens’ argument, one would 
conclude that Tasso certainly aspires to such a unitary mode of signification, but that he betrays 
over and over again the anxiety that it is unattainable. 

3 As note 33 above began to suggest, the word “peregrino,” as both adjective and substantive, has 


178 Albert Russell Ascoli 


beginning to end of the Liberata, however, he seems aware that his literary 
pilgrimage will go inevitably astray, that his vow can never be fulfilled and that 
hence he can never be released from it, this side of the tomb. Where for Ariosto 
madness is the best defense against death, for Tasso, death, and above all the 
silence that comes with it, seems the only alternative to an endlessly loquacious 
madness.“ Only there can one be freed from the ineluctable servitude of the 
unkeepable vow; only there, in the shadow of difference itself, can one escape 
from the horror of the many differences of which world and self alike are 
composed. 


Northwestern University 


Works Cited 


Alighieri, Dante. Paradiso: Volume 1, Text. The Divine Comedy. 6 vols. Ed. and 
trans. Charles S. Singleton. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1975. 

Aquinas, Thomas. Summa Theologiae, Vol. 39: Religion and Worship. Ed. Kevin D. 
O’Rourke. London: Eyre and Spottiswoode, 1964. 

Ariosto, Ludovico. Orlando furioso. 2 vols. Ed. Emilio Bigi. Milano: Rusconi, 1982. 

Ascoli, Albert Russell. Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony: Crisis and Evasion in the Italian 
Renaissance. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1987. 

Benjamin, Walter. The Origin of German Tragic Drama. Trans. John Osborne. 
London: NLB, 1977. 

Bonifazi, Neuro. Le lettere infedeli. Roma: Officina Edizioni, 1975. 

Brownlee, Kevin and Walter Stephens, eds. Discourses of Authority in Medieval and 
Renaissance Literature. Hanover, N.H.: UP of New England, 1989. 

Bruscagli, Riccardo. “L’errore di Goffredo (G.L. XI).” Studi tassiani 40-41 (1992- 
1993): 207-32. 

Cardini, Franco, ed. La menzogna. Firenze: Ponte alle Grazie, 1989. 

Chiappelli, Fredi. // conoscitore del chaos: una ‘vis abdita’ nel linguaggio tassesco. 
Roma: Bulzoni, 1981. 

Cicero. De officiis. Trans. Walter Miller. Loeb Classical Library. Cambridge: Harvard 


deservedly received much attention in the criticism. As Klopp shows admirably, Tasso’s most 
common use of the adjective is in reference to language, especially to the Aristotelian question of 
the employment of strange or foreign words in poetry, a fact which reinforces the connection 
between the psychic drama of the poet-pilgrim and the “viaggio testuale” of his language. For my 
purposes it is crucial that in Tasso’s Italian “peregrino” means not only “pilgrim,” but also “new,” 
“strange,” and, especially, “different” (see also Chiappelli: 180). 

This drama can be described in a more “objective” way as well, in terms of the poem’s 
protracted compositional history. The Liberata is a text with a decisive ending, but it is also a text 
which its author never finished writing. The endless, anxious revisionary process partly 
documented in the “poetic letters” of 1575-76 gives eloquent testimony to Tasso’s sense of the 
simultaneous necessity and impossibility of bringing the writing of the poem to a definitive close. 





Liberating the Tomb: Difference and Death in Gerusalemme liberata 179 


UP, 1913, rpt. 1961. 
Derla, Luigi. “Sull’allegoria della Gerusalemme liberata.” Italianistica 7 (1978): 473- 


88. 
Durling, Robert M. The Figure of the Poet in Renaissance Epic. Cambridge: Harvard 
UP, 1965. 


Dutschke, Dennis et al., eds. Forma e parola: studi in memoria di Fredi Chiappelli. 
Roma: Bulzoni, 1992. 

Erspamer, Francesco. 1982. La biblioteca di Don Ferrante: duello e onore nella cultura 
del Cinquecento. Roma: Bulzoni. 

. 1989. “Tl ‘pensiero debole’ di Torquato Tasso.” Cardini: 120-36. 

Ferguson, Margaret. Trials of Desire: Renaissance Defenses of Poetry. New Haven: 
Yale UP, 1983. 

Fichter, Andrew. Poets Historical: Dynastic Epic in the Renaissance. New Haven: 
Yale UP, 1982. 

Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. Rachel Jacoff. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1986. 

Giamatti, A. Bartlett. The Earthly Paradise and the Renaissance Epic. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1966. 

Greene, Thomas M. The Descent from Heaven: A Study in Epic Continuity. New 
Haven: Yale UP, 1963. 

Guibert of Nogent. Ad Commentarios in Genesim. Vol. 156 of Patrologiae Cursus 
Completus: Series Latina. Ed. J. P. Migne. Paris: 1844-1864. 

Hampton, Timothy. Writing from History: The Rhetoric of Exemplarity in 
Renaissance Literature. Ithaca: Comell UP, 1990. 

Isidore of Seville. Etymologiarum sive Originum Libri XX. Ed. W. Lindsay. Oxford: 
The Clarendon Press, 1966. 

Jakobson, Roman. “The Metaphoric and the Metonymic Poles.” Jakobson and Halle: 
91-96. 

Jakobson, Roman and Morris Halle. Fundamentals of Language. 2nd ed. The Hague: 
Mouton, 1971, first edition 1956. 

Javitch, Daniel. 1984. “The Orlando furioso and Ovid’s Revision of the Aeneid.” 
MLN 99: 1023-1036. 

. 1976. “Rescuing Ovid from the Allegorizers: The Liberation of Angelica, 

Furioso X.” Scaglione: 85-98. 

Kallendorf, Craig. Jn Praise of Aeneas: Vergil and Epideictic Rhetoric in the Italian 
Renaissance. Hanover, N.H.: UP of New England, 1989. 

Klopp, Charles. “Peregrino and Errante in the Gerusalemme liberata.” MLN 94 
(1979): 61-76. 

Langer, Ulrich. Divine and Poetic Freedom in the Renaissance: Nominalist Theology 
and Literature in France and Italy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1990. 

Looney, Dennis. “The Misshapen Beast: The Furioso’s Serpentine Narrative.” Prier: 
53-79. 

Martinelli, Alessandro. La demiurgia della scrittura poetica: Gerusalemme liberata. 
Firenze: Olschki, 1983. 

Murrin, Michael. The Allegorical Epic: Essays in its Rise and Decline. Chicago: UP 
of Chicago, 1980. 

Pittoru, Fabio. Torquato Tasso: l'uomo, il poeta, il cortegiano. Milano: Bompiani, 


180 Albert Russell Ascoli 


1932: 
Putnam, Michael C. J. The Poetry of the Aeneid. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1988, first 
published 1965. 
Prier, Raymond A., ed. Countercurrents: On Primacy of Texts in Literary Criticism. 
Albany: SUNY Press, 1992. 
Quint, David. 1993. Epic and Empire: Politics and Generic Form from Virgil to 
Milton. Princeton: Princeton UP. 
. 1979. “The Figure of Atlante: Ariosto and Boiardo’s Poem.” MLN 94: 77- 
91. 
. 1983. Origin and Originality in Renaissance Literature: Versions of the 
Source. New Haven: Yale UP. 
. 1982. “Painful Memories: Aeneid 3 and the Problem of the Past.” The 
Classical Journal 78: 30-38. 
. 1990. “Political Allegory in the Gerusalemme Liberata.” Renaissance 
Quarterly 43: 1-29. Now revised in Epic and Empire: 214-34. 
Raimondi, Ezio. Poesia come retorica. Firenze: Olschki, 1980. 
Reckford, Kenneth. “Latent Tragedy in Aeneid VII.1-285.” American Journal of 
Philology 82 (1961): 252-69. 
Rhu, Lawrence. 1988. “From Aristotle to Allegory: Young Tasso’s Evolving Vision 
of the Gerusalemme liberata.” Italica 65: 111-30. 
. 1993. The Genesis of Tasso’s Narrative Theory. Detroit: Wayne State UP. 
Saccone, Eduardo. 1974. “Cloridano e Medoro, con alcuni argomenti per una lettura 
del primo Furioso.” Il soggetto del Furioso e altri saggi tra '400 e '500. Napoli: 
Liguori, 1974: 161-200. 
. 1983. “Prospettive sull’ultimo Ariosto.” Modern Language Notes 98: 55- 
69. 
Scaglione, Aldo, ed. Ariosto 1974 in America. Ravenna: Longo, 1976. 
Seem, Lauren Scancarelli. “The Limits of Chivalry: Tasso and the End of the Aeneid.” 
Comparative Literature 42 (1990): 116-25. 
Sitterson, Joseph. “Allusive and Elusive Meanings: Reading Ariosto’s Vergilian 
Ending.” Renaissance Quarterly 45 (1992): 1-19. 
Stephens, Walter. 1991. “Metaphor, Sacrament, and the Problem of Allegory in 
Gerusalemme liberata.” I Tatti Studies: Essays in the Renaissance 4: 217-47. 
. 1989. “St. Paul among the Amazons: Gender and Authority in Gerusalemme 
liberata.” Brownlee and Stephens: 169-200. 
Tasso, Torquato. 1971. Gerusalemme liberata. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. Torino: Einaudi. 
. 1857. Lettere, vol. 1. Ed. Cesare Guasti. Napoli: Rondinella. 
. 1959. Apologia in difesa della Gerusalemme liberata. In Prose. Ed. Ettore 
Mazzali. Milano: Ricciardi. 
Virgil. The Aeneid. 2 vols. Trans. H. R. Fairclough. Loeb Classical Library. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1916, rpt. 1986. 
Zatti, Sergio. 1990. ‘Il furioso’ fra epos e romanzo. Lucca: Maria Pacini Fazzi. 
. 1992. “Il linguaggio della dissimulazione nella Gerusalemme liberata.” 
Dutschke: 423-47. 
. 1991. “Tasso contro Ariosto?” Quaderno di studi tassiani : 203-16. 
. 1983. L’uniforme cristiano e il multiforme pagano. Milano: I] Saggiatore. 





Walter Stephens 


Tasso and the Witches 





If we grant — as critics regularly do — that the figure of Torquato in Tasso’s // 
messaggiero bears some autobiographical relation to the author of Gerusalemme 
liberata, then we must notice an unusually precise, intimate, and suggestive 
similarity between the two apparently heterogeneous texts. Like Goffredo, that 
most unrealistically serene paragon of Counter-Reformation epic values, the 
imprisoned melancholic Torquato receives an auroral visit from a celestial 
“messenger.” The thematic, lexical, and stylistic traits shared by the two 
epiphanies reveal profound differences in emotional register and context that shed 
a penetrating and disturbing light, not so much on the nature of Tasso’s malady, 
as on the mentality of his entire epoch. Unlike recent critics I do not believe that 
the Messaggiero is primarily significant in terms of Freudian ego-psychology.! 
Rather, I hear in the marginalized voice of ““Torquato” — whether he is or is not 
a faithful representation of Tasso’s own melancholy, and whether or not that 
melancholy can be understood in modern clinical terms — a lucid articulation of 
the spiritual malaise afflicting Tasso’s society at large — both Catholics and 
Protestants — in the worst period of the great European witch-hunt. 

Tasso was probably alone among his contemporaries in articulating the 
cosmological, ontological, and epistemological dislocations that provoked the 
witch-hunt; not until nearly 1700 did defenders of witch-hunting realize the 
effective metaphysical foundations of the hunt, which was by then uncer attack 
from all sides. Nor have modern historians of the witch-hunt achieved the insight 
displayed in J] messaggiero. Beginning with the great liberal, anticlerical 
historians of the nineteenth century, investigations of the witch-hunt have 
accepted the self-representations of the inquisitorial class at face-value, and thence 
dismissed the inquisitorial witch-mythos as unaccountably irrational. Thus they 
have concentrated on the purely social, secular dimension of the witch-hunt, 
seeking to explain its ultimate significance in terms of hostilities among 
classes, and, more recently, as a form of gender-warfare.” 


1 Basile, esp. 34, 54-55 and Schiesari 197 have some remote affinities with my reading here. But 
those who wish to see /] messaggiero as primarily about Tasso’s personal pathology would do well 
to look at the original version of it (Raimondi 3.299-468), which is a far more “pathological” 
document, and yet, at the crucial point that interests Basile and Schiesari, does not mention 
melancholy at all, but rather ubbriachezza and amore (Dialoghi 3.332, ed. Raimondi; Basile 34-35; 
Schiesari 198). 

Bibliography on the witch-hunt is immense. Aside from the other works I will cite, Levack is a 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


182 Walter Stephens 


The cosmology that Torquato and his celestial interlocutor discuss in the 
prison of Sant’ Anna intimates that belief in the reality of witches was the last 
resort of those intellectuals who were losing their faith in the ultimate veracity 
of Christianity. By implication, // messaggiero shows that some who were most 
grievously tormented by this loss of faith also built the showiest monuments to 
faith. In addition to the author of Gerusalemme liberata, their numbers probably 
included most of those whom we might call the inquisitorial class.3 // 
messaggiero intimates that the hunting and killing — and the theoretical 
classification — of witches attracted those who must at any cost preserve their 
will to believe that they lived in a universe overseen by a provident, benevolent, 
and immanent God. As Nietzsche demonstrated by reversing the logic of Saint 
Paul’s dictum, “‘Faith’ means not wanting to know what is true” (179), and 
there has never been a more devastating — or more badly understood — 
demonstration of this insight than the European witch-hunt of ca. 1400 to 1700. 

Il messaggiero is not a cri de coeur; it is rather a highly crafted, syncretic, 
and systematic treatise on demonology and angelology.* The dialogue reveals the 
melancholia of the inscribed Torquato as an acute instantiation of a chronic 
pathology that afflicted the culture of the entire literate elite. Like Tasso’s highly 
constructed fictive self, the literate culture at large was unwillingly and 
anxiously skeptical, and could not convince itself that the spirit-world actually 
existed.® Unlike him, it was unwilling or unable to enunciate and examine its 
skepticism consciously. This is not to assert Tasso’s moral or intellectual 
superiority, but rather his juridical immunity. Paradoxically, it was quite safe for 
Tasso to enunciate these epistemological and ontological doubts, for his 
melancholia provided an alibi that was both psychological and physiological.® 


recent and thorough introduction and bibliography. 

The term “witch” will be my shorthand for “accused witch,” that is, a person accused of 
practicing magic with intent to harm people, livestock or crops, and supposed to have had 
prolonged and repeated personal contact with the Devil. By “inquisitor,” I will designate not only 
judicial officials who conducted interrogations and supervised the application of torture, but also 
those intellectuals who, without necessarily prosecuting witches, wrote manuals and treatises 
justifying the hunt. I will use both terms without inverted commas, but I wish neither to imply that 
witches were guilty of anything whatever, nor that all trials took place in ecclesiastical courts, 
much less under the auspices of the various Catholic Inquisitions. Trials took place in a great 
variety of legal venues, and ecclesiastical institutions were not always thoroughly engaged in the 
prosecution of witches — indeed, sometimes they resisted it. Thus, I will use the term “inquisitor” 
in a deliberately vague sense to designate the official asker of questions, whether he be lay or 
cleric, Protestant or Catholic, interrogator or theorist. 

4 Baldassarri devotes much attention to the sources and peculiarities of Tasso’s demonology, but 
even he subordinates it rigorously to other concerns: less to autobiography than to the question of 
sogno, which is indeed intimately related, and to Tasso’s dialogues as genre, which is, I think, not. 


By “spirit-world” I designate the most basic Christian beliefs in the existence of angels, devils, a 
personal God who is both benevolent and omnipotent, an incarnate savior, and an immortal human 
soul. 


6 Indeed, we should remember that the first redaction of J] messaggiero lacks the discourse on 





Tasso and the Witches 183 


Furthermore, melancholics were reputed to be pathological confessors and 
mythomaniacs. This reputation was juridically significant, for some authorities 
considered melancholia sufficient grounds for dismissing even the confessions of 
self-styled witches (Levack 16-17). 

Tasso’s emotional complicity with the Inquisition is well-known from his 
correspondence. As his mental serenity dissipated under the strain of revising 
Gerusalemme liberata, and as his relations with Alfonso II deteriorated, Tasso 
sought to be interrogated by the Inquisition, fearing that he was involuntarily 
slipping into heresy. That he may also have had political reasons for desiring the 
ear of the inquisitors, and wished to implicate other dependents of the Estense 
court, is undeniable (certainly Alfonso appears to have feared so), but is 
ultimately peripheral to Tasso’s hankering for reassurance about his orthodoxy.’ 
His rage when he was absolved as being merely melancholic, rather than 
heretical, shows that Tasso understood the institution of the Inquisition and 
sought relief from his doubt through interrogation and spiritual purgation (as in 
the purgatio canonica) rather than the corporeal purges administered to 
melancholics.® And, as we shall see, the only heresy to which Tasso ever 
admitted was the one that inquisitors of witches were themselves most liable to, 
and yet could confess only obliquely, through the obsessively repetitive 
symptom of extracting fictitious confessions of witchcraft with torture and 
ventriloquism. 

Through their mutual reflections and inversions, the two epiphanies of 
Goffredo and Torquato provide access to the profound discontinuities and 
contradictions between Tasso’s epic and his dialogue, and, by extension and 
analogy, to the discrepancy between inquisitorial self-representation and 
inquisitorial symptomology. Properly understood, // messaggiero is the inverted 
other, the photographic negative, of Gerusalemme liberata, just as, properly 
understood, the witch-hunt is the irrational obverse or photographic negative of 
rationalistic Scholastic theology, a method of surreptitiously testing the 
cosmology, epistemology, and ontology that it purported to accept on faith. 

Elsewhere I have claimed that Gerusalemme liberata is a “sacramental” epic. 
At its precise mathematical center Tasso presents a Corpus Christi procession 
and Mass on the Mount of Olives, whereby, “as in Tridentine doctrine, Eucharist 
is the moment when the Body of Christ manifests all its aspects: the 
transubstantiated host, the ascended Body Historical, the re-enacted Sacrifice, and 


melancholia, which was only added as the prospect of publication materialized. See Baldassarri 
273, 282-83 on the daring heterodoxy of the Messaggiero. 

Tasso’s suspicion that Alfonso had obtained this absolution is well-known, but also peripheral to 
Tasso’s travail over his own religious beliefs. Alfonso wished to deflect papal scrutiny from a 
court already tainted by the Calvinism of his mother Renée de France, and from a state destined to 
revert to the Church’s temporal sovereignty if Alfonso produced no male heir (as in fact happened 
in 1597). See Solerti 1.257-67, Pittorru 173-87. 

8 On forms of purgatio as “remedy” for heresy, see Mereu 149-72. 


184 Walter Stephens 


the incorporated Ecclesia” (Stephens, “Metaphor” 230). Tasso implies that his 
mode of allegorical composition is based on the mode of signification attributed 
by Catholic theologians to Catholic sacraments, and the body-discourse of the 
poem implicates the Tridentine sacraments systematically.? Yet this thematic 
system shows an obsessiveness that reveals Gerusalemme liberata as a kind of 
talisman, an artifact through which Tasso attempted to concretize and organize a 
faith that he was finding increasingly elusive. At its opening, an 
anthropomorphic God the Father looks down upon the encampment of the 
Crusaders and assesses them sternly but benevolently. As Tasso describes the 
eyes of the Padre eterno and deploys an entire vocabulary of vision (miro, 
Ss’ affisd, guardo, spia, vide, vede, scorge), the anthropomorphism is already 
undercut in several ways. Most obviously because vision is at least in part a 
metaphor for another mode of knowledge, the discovery of the inmost 
dispositions (intimi sensi) of human emotions, themselves metaphorized as 
“hearts” (GL 1.7-11). Second, the comprehensive and humanly paradoxical 
glance of God cannot help but recall the beatific vision of Dante, both lexically 
and epistemologically: “in un sol punto e in una / vista miro ciO ch’in sé il 
mondo aduna.”!° The difference, of course, is that Dante claimed to have seen 
God as God sees creation, and thus for Tasso the difference is one of nostalgia 
and lack, for Dante’s vision cannot be duplicated or even adequately remembered. 
Finally, because, although the anthropomorphic metaphor of vision depicts God 
as immanent, or participating in creation, and providential, or interested in the 
lives and fortunes of individuals, Tasso also depicts God as transcendent, or 
totally above and hence absolutely other than, all he has created, for God looks 
down from the Empyrean, which is farther from the sphere of the fixed stars than 
is that sphere itself from the deepest part of hell (GL 1.7). Hell is literally closer 
to us than heaven.!! This passage, which should be reassuring about the 
fundamental assertion of Christian faith, already encapsulates the elemental 
contradiction of Christian theology. 

The contradiction between a God of immanence and a transcendent God is, as 
Arthur O. Lovejoy showed, the fundamental contradiction of Christian theology, 
one that threatens to make the very concept of the cosmos incomprehensible, and 
thus must be resolved.!? The solution is available only through a third term, 
either the hypostatic union of the Incarnation, which Dante glimpsed in the 
depth of his vision, or an angel. And so Tasso’s Padre eterno summons Gabriel. 
The archangel’s epithets are not quite symmetrical or synonymous: will he act as 


9 See the extended treatments in Stephens, “Saint Paul” (177-91), and “Metaphor” (225-34). 
10 GL 1.7.7-8; cf. Paradiso 33.55-145, esp. 85-96. 
11 On the larger question, see Quint 92-132, esp. 109: “The withdrawal of Tasso’s deity from the 
natural world leaves a vacuum which demons rush in to fill.” 

: Lovejoy 82-83: “. . . no two notions could be more antithetic. The one was the apotheosis of 
unity, self-sufficiency, and quietude, the other of diversity, self-transcendence, and fecundity.” 
Cf. 157, 315-16, 322-23, 326-27. 





Tasso and the Witches 185 


the herald of the heavenly court (nunzio giocondo), or rather, as its ambassador 
and translator (interprete fedel) in parts of the realm so remote as to be alien? 
This trans-lation and inter-pretation is of course already in itself a metaphoric 
process, the closing of a gap in signification. But Gabriel’s own otherness from 
human ontology further accentuates the gap between God and humanity: 
although he is intermediate between God and humanity both in essence and in 
function, he must nonetheless incarnate himself fictively in order to deliver 
God’s message to Goffredo: 


la sua forma invisibil d’aria cinse 

ed al senso mortal la sottopose. 
Umane membra, aspetto uman si finse, 
ma di celeste maesta il compose; 

tra giovene e fanciullo eta confine 
prese, ed orné di raggi il biondo crine. 
(GL 1.13.3-8) 


The very fact that this fictive incarnation is necessary in order to make God’s 
message intelligible can be read as a disturbing commentary on the originary 
incarnation of the Logos. If Gabriel is already ontologically intermediate between 
God and man, but must nonetheless mediate himself still further, then the 
hypostatic union seems by comparison abrupt and paradoxical. 

This interpretation could appear capricious and exaggerated, but it is borne 
out by the revision of Gabriel’s incarnation in J] messaggiero. Like Goffredo, 
Torquato is visited by a messaggiero, a gentile spirto. The Messenger’s 
incarnation is described in exactly the same terms: “m’apparve un giovane ch’ era 
ne’ confini de la fanciulezza e de la gioventu” (Dialoghi 13, ed. Mazzali). Both 
spirits appear at sunrise to a man whom dawn has already awakened. But there 
the similarities end. Gabriel appears dramatically and triumphantly to Goffredo: 


Sorgeva il novo sol da i lidi eoi, 

parte gia fuor, ma ’] pit ne |’onde chiuso; 
e porgea matutini 1 preghi suoi 

Goffredo a Dio, come egli avea per uso; 
quando a paro co ’] sol, ma pit lucente, 
l’angelo gli appari da l’orienie. 

(GL 1.15.3-8) 


Having heard the message, Goffredo implements it immediately. More 
importantly, he never for an instant doubts the veracity or the ontological and 
epistemological bases of the vision he has just experienced: 


Resta Goffredo a i detti, a lo splendore, 
d’occhi abbagliato, attonito di core. 
Ma poi che si riscote, e che discorre 


186 Walter Stephens 


chi venne, chi mando, che gli fu detto, 
se gia bramava, or tutto arde d’imporre 
fine a la guerra ond’egli é duce eletto. 
(GL 1.17.7-18.4) 


Goffredo accepts the whole experience unproblematically as fact: he has seen, and 
therefore believes, that heaven has preferred him, and his acceptance is narrated as 
if he were already a denizen of Dante’s heaven.'3 

Torquato’s experience of the same kind of epiphany is radically different. 
Like Goffredo, he awakes at dawn, but not in order to pray; rather, he lies in a 
sensual dormiveglia: 


Era gia l’ora che la vicinanza del sole comincia a rischiarare l’orizonte, quando a me, 
che ne le delicate piume giaceva co’ sensi non fortemente legati dal sonno, ma cosi 
leggiermente che il mio stato era mezzo fra la vigilia e la quiete, si fece a l’orecchio 
quel gentile spirto che suole favellarmi ne le mie imaginazioni, e mi chiam6 per quel 
nome che @ comune a tutti quelli i quali son nati ne la mia stirpe. 

(Dialoghi 6, ed. Mazzali) 


The impression of decadence is enhanced by a faint allusion to Petrarch’s seventh 
sonnet, “La gola e ’] somno e Il’otiose piume.” Like the literary echo, the 
apparition is also purely aural at the beginning; significantly, he will not don a 
visible fictive body until after trying several other modes of apparition. This 
fact, coupled with the ambiguity of the term imaginazioni, invites the reader to 
imitate Torquato’s doubt about the reality of the gentile spirto. The intermediate 
state Tasso evokes is thus initially not ontological but epistemological: it does 
not describe the being of the “messenger,” but rather the indeterminacy of 
Torquato’s mental state. 

Unlike Gabriel, Torquato’s Messenger has not come on any of the errands 
that Christianity imputes to angels. In fact, Torquato tells him, since you only 
bring consolation and never help, you would seem not to be an angel. The 
Messenger’s being is as indeterminate as Torquato’s mental state, since he 
matches none of the categories with which Christians are familiar: angelo, anima 
felice, demone, anima infelice. Perhaps, if notturni fantasmi are something other 
than these, that is what the Messenger is (Dialoghi 6, ed. Mazzali). The initial 
indeterminacy of Torquato’s consciousness transmutes into an all-pervasive 
uncertainty about the nature of experience and essence. The mean or median state 
that angels like Gabriel represent in Christian ontology has here become a 
neutral (ne-uter) state, about which Torquato cannot be certain either that it is 
identical with him (a figment of his imagination) or that it is other than him. 





13 “Non che ’! vedersi a gli altri in Ciel preporre / d’aura d’ambizion gli gonfi il petto, / ma il suo 
voler pit nel voler s’infiamma / del suo Signor, come favilla in fiamma” (GL 1.18.5-8). Compare 
Paradiso 8.16 and 3.82-87, esp. 84. 


Tasso and the Witches 187 


The missing demonic body — Gabriel’s artificial or fictive one and the 
invisible body of the Messenger — is the obsession that links /! messaggiero to 
the great witch-hunt. The task of Torquato’s Messenger is never to impart a 
mission, as Gabriel’s was, but rather to bestow certainty of a special order on 
Torquato, to reassure him that the spirit-world actually exists. But without a 
visible and intrinsic body, the Messenger’s most challenging task is to prove 
that he himself is real, rather than a very realistic hallucination. Even when he 
becomes visible, he cannot convince Torquato that the entire experience is not 
somehow imaginary, and Torquato embarks on a kind of mise en abime of 
doubt. This vertigo fascinates contemporary psychoanalytic critics because 
Torquato describes his personal version of it through an examination of his 
melancholia. 

But although Torquato wonders whether this particular spirit is a symptom 
of his melancholy rather than a real presence, the question is of far broader 
historical interest. It poses an objectively philosophical conundrum: to be 
assured that the spirit-world exists Torquato needs to know that he is actually 
talking to a spirit, rather than to himself; but this reassurance depends on 
knowing precisely what spirits are and how they fit into the great scheme of 
things. Torquato shares, in a heightened degree and with a heightened 
consciousness, literate Europe’s anxious need to know whether the spirit-world 
exists and is accessible to human consciousness, and hence, by implication, 
whether God exists: that is, whether God is immanent in creation and accessible 
to human experience. Tasso’s dialogue does not, and presumably cannot, 
explicitly pose the question of God’s existence, for it is a public literary 
performance, subject to censure. Yet Tasso was tormented by the problem in this 
period. The Messaggiero dates from early 1580, but already a year earlier, at the 
time of his definitive enclosure in Sant’Anna, Tasso was obsessed by doubts 
about the nature of God.!* Writing to his friend Scipione Gonzaga on 15 April 
1579, Tasso combined a confused and often contradictory justification of his 
behavior with a lucid, logically and chronologically sequential account of the 
emotional problems that arose from his inability to believe in the immanent, 
providential, and personal God of Catholic Christianity. 

Since it is written to a clergyman in a context that was originally private 
and secret, since Tasso confides that he has never dared to confess these doubts to 
other clergy, and because of its rigorous structure and its theological precision, 
this segment of the letter qualifies as a confession in the technical, sacramental 
sense.!5 Like Saint Augustine in his own Confessions, Tasso stratifies his 


14 In fact, given my reading of the Liberata as a sacramental epic intended to serve a personal 
talismanic function, I would imagine these doubts exacerbated the anxiety Tasso felt toward his 
poetic and ecclesiastical revisors, and even more toward Roman censors, concerning the doctrinal 
correctness of the poem (Stephens, “Metaphor” 235-47). 

“. .. mi confessava e mi comunicava ne’ tempi e col modo che comanda la tua Chiesa romana; 
e s’alcuna volta mi pareva d’aver tralasciato alcun peccato per negligenza o per vergogna, ch’io 


188 Walter Stephens 


audience, allowing Gonzaga to overhear a confession whose grammatical 
addressee is God: 


. 10 ti conosceva solo come una certa cagione de l’universo, la quale, amata e 
desiderata, tira a sé tutte le cose; e ti conosceva come un principio eterno e immobile 
di tutti i movimenti, e come signore che in universale provvede a la salute del mondo 
e di tutte le specie che da lui sono contenute. Ma dubitava poi oltra modo se tu avessi 
creato il mondo o se pur ab eterno egli da te dipendesse; dubitava se tu avessi dotato 
l’uomo d’anima immortale e se tu fossi disceso a vestirti d’umanita; e dubitava di 
molte cose che da questi fonti, quasi fiumi, derivavano. 

(Lettere 105. Ed. Mazzali) 


In other words, Tasso confesses to being an unwilling Neoplatonist: his belief 
system combines an Aristotelian conviction that God is an Unmoved Mover, 
hardly more personal than the force of gravity, with a Platonic (or rather 
Plotinian) desire to see the universe as a series of emanations or “processions” of 
the divine.!® 

Tasso found belief in the Catholic sacraments all but impossible, because to 
his rationalist mentality the initial doubt about God’s mode of being proliferated 
with vertiginous rapidity and thoroughness: 


Percioché come poteva io fermamente credere ne i sacramenti, o ne 1|’autorita del tuo 
pontefice, o ne l’inferno, o nel purgatorio, se de l’incarnazion del tuo Figliuolo e de 
V’immortalita de l’anima era dubbio? I secondi dubbi, nondimeno, non da proprie 
radici nascevano, ma da i primi [i.e., the doubts about God’s nature], quasi rami, 
germogliavano: pur m’incresceva il dubitarne; e volentieri da si fatti pensieri avrei 
richiamato il mio intelletto, per se stesso curioso e vago de l’alte e sovrane 
investigazioni; e volentieri l’avrei acchetato a credere senza ripugnanza quanto di te 
crede e predica la santa Chiesa cattolica romana.!7 

(Lettere 105. Ed. Mazzali) 


The malady to which Tasso is confessing here is not melancholy but 
rationalism, or, as he expresses it repeatedly in this letter, the inability to 


aveva, d’avere in alcune cose di pochissima importanza vilmente operato, replicava la 
confessione, e molte volte la faceva generale di tutti gli errori miei. Nel manifestare nondimeno i 
miei dubbi al confessore, non gli manifestava con tanta forza ne le parole, con quanta mi si 
facevan sentire ne |’animo, percioché alcuna volta era vicino al non credere; non tanto per 
vergogna o per malizia, quanto per timore ch’egli non mi volesse assolvere; e fra gli altri dubbi 
ch’io aveva, questo era il principale, che non mi sapeva risolvere se la mia fosse miscredenza o 
NO, € s’io potessi O non potessi essere assoluto” (Lettere [Mazzali] 106). 

See Lettere (Guasti) 2.114: “. . . nel dialogo del Messaggiero la dottrina é platonica con 
qualche mistura di peripatetica, in quel modo ch’i platonici la ricevono.” Quint 95-97, 238n. sees 
this letter as evidence of a “conversion experience,” but there is no foundation for this 
interpretation, especially in light of the letter’s anguished rhetoric. 

17 See Schiesari 200-08 on the figure of the hydra. 





Tasso and the Witches 189 


subordinate reason to faith. 

The confession to Gonzaga places an entirely different complexion on the 
public assertion that Tasso makes in the dedication of I] messaggiero to 
Scipione’s kinsman Vincenzo, the future Duke of Mantua: 


Egli @ scritto secondo la dottrina de’ Platonici, la quale in molte cose é diversa da la 
verita cristiana: laonde non devrebbe alcuno maravigliarsi ch’io abbia posti vari 
mezzi fra gli uomini e Dio, come posero non sol molti filosofi, ma san Bernardo 
medesimo, che chiam6 gli angeli mediatori, benché santo Agostino dica ch’uno sia il 
mediatore; né ch’io in qualche parte non riprenda i giudici de ]’astrologia, i quali sono 
da lui in tutto riprovati e condannati; o ch’io ne la creazione de 1’uomo abbia voluto 
seguir l’opinione di Platone, ripresa da santo Ambrosio, avegnaché, non volendo 
trattarne come teologo, non istimava sconvenevole lo scriverne platonicamente, e 
tutti gli altri modi mi parevano pit contrari a la vera teologia. Ma perché tutti i 
filosofi debbono ricercar la verita, quantunque non per la medesima strada, io, per 
questa ricercandone, da quella che @ somma verita ho cercato di non molto 
allontanarmi. Vostra Altezza dunque il legga come opera d’uomo che scrive come 
filosofo e crede come cristiano, e come tale vorrei che fosse veduto da gli altri... . 
(Dialoghi 4-5, ed. Mazzali) 


This apparently anodyne, somewhat pedantic-sounding litany of disclaimers 
conceals conceptual dynamite. As he often did, Tasso is here first of all 
disavowing any attempt to participate in the clerical monopoly on magisterium, 
or teaching about the faith. Rather than open himself to censure by presuming to 
speak as a theologian, he will strive merely to adumbrate the received truths of 
Catholic teaching, which he claims to accept unproblematically, by following 
the philosophical method that least conflicts with it, the Neoplatonic.!8 
Nevertheless, Tasso treats theology briefly, since he foresees Catholic 
censure of his cosmology and demonology. His mention of Saints Bernard, 
Augustine, and Ambrose in this context presumably circumscribes the 
differences between Christian and Neoplatonic theology, demonstrating their 
near-compatibility, and reminding us of the influence of Neoplatonic thought on 
patristic orthodoxy. But it actually does something far more disquieting in terms 
of sixteenth-century culture: it intimates that Tasso finds Neoplatonic doctrines 
of ontology and cosmology more comforting than those of la vera teologia. This 
hint is borne out by his subsequent discussion of witches in the context of 
ontology and cosmology. Tasso excuses himself for having placed “various 
mezzi between men and God.” His mention of Augustine introduces what looks 
like a synonym of mezzi: although Bernard said that angels are mediatori 
between men and God, Augustine cautions that Christ is the only mediatore. 1° 


18 Baldassarri 282-84; Stephens, “Metaphor” 238-41. 

In a note to Tasso’s Dialoghi (4n.), Mazzali traces these citations. The citation of Saint 
Bernard’s sermon on angels (PL 183.447, 1-48) merely gives Scriptural authority for the assertion 
that God is served by millions of angels, and that angels facilitate his communication with 


190 Walter Stephens 


But there is a very important difference between the two terms, upon which 
hangs the dread that informs both Tasso’s malaise and that of the inquisitors. 
The sense of mezzo is far more explicitly physical and scientific than that of 
mediatore. While mediatore refers to a function or activity, mezzo describes an 
ontological state. As Torquato’s Messenger employs the term, mezzo has the 
technical sense of the mean or median element in a series, and it bolsters a view 
of the cosmos as complete, orderly, and sequential: 


Or passard a la seconda prova, con la quale io intendo di conchiudere che siano 1 
demoni e gli angioli, presa da ]’ordine de l’universo che da Dio e da la natura sua 
ministra @ stato osservato. Non suole, se ben tu ti ricordi, passar la natura da 1’uno 
estremo a |’altro senza alcun mezzo: laonde tra le specie inferiori e le superiori sono 
interposte quelle che participano de l’une e de |’altre. Cosi la natura va ascendendo da 
le cose sensibili a le intelligibili quasi per gradi. 

(Dialoghi 35, ed. Mazzali) 


That is, the universe must be hierarchical. Despite our inclinations to the 
contrary, we should regard this premise as pre-political, or at least para-political. 
As Lovejoy showed, hierarchy is important to pre-Darwinian cosmology for 
reasons that are, in logical terms, prior to and therefore more comprehensive than 
politics: epistemology, ontology, eschatology — in short, the rationalist’s 
categories for the meaning of life. In this context, hierarchy is not yet necessary 
as a justification for social control or political power. 

Regardless of their attitude toward Neoplatonism, Tasso and his 
contemporaries felt the ultimate meaning of lack or incompletion in a 
cosmological context as the absence of a transition-point between matter and 
spirit. They feared that, without hierarchy, that is, ontological gradualism, the 
continuity and communicability between the human and the divine cannot be 
found or does not exist. But this fear was still too tremendous to be enunciated 
openly; Tasso’s dialogue has to build toward it gradually, and without ever 
stressing it. Tasso expresses this fear more positively as a desire for a cosmos of 
salita, or stepwise ascent, rather than a cosmos of salto, or leap: 


. . . se da l’uomo senza alcun mezzo si passasse a Dio, si salirebbe senza gradi, o non 
con tanti con quanti sin a lui [i.e., l;uomo] é ito ascendendo da 1’una a I’altra specie: e 
sarebbe questa non salita, ma salto. . . 

(Dialoghi 35, ed. Mazzali)”° 


The near-pun is not frivolous: if there is no demonic world, then the cosmos is 
imperfect (literally incomplete), not for aesthetic or political reasons, but 
because there is a gap, an abyss, between God and humanity. The fear that we 


humanity. 
20 See the analogous formulations in Lovejoy 60-61, 181, 184-85, 203, 217, 233, 235, 241. 





Tasso and the Witches 191 


live in a universe of transcendence (of salto), rather than a universe of 
immanence (of salita) is the real terror behind the notion of an “incomplete” 
universe. 

The Neoplatonic conception of the cosmos as perfectus or complete has 
indeed already been discussed by the Messenger in a long disquisition on the 
difference between angels and daemons. Synthesizing Neoplatonic and Christian 
demonology, he defends a distinction between angels, who are absolutely 
spiritual, and daemons, who have a kind of body. This is not identical with a 
distinction between angels and devils (though the Messenger will use it as if it 
were). Daemons are not demons — or at least they were not until the Fathers of 
the Church got hold of them.”! Before Christianity redefined them, daemons 
could be good or evil, or, perhaps more precisely, morally neutral: it was their 
ontological status as mezzo that determined their mediatory function, not the 
quality of their volition. Plato, whose concept of the messenger gave Tasso the 
title for this dialogue, defined daemons as the mediators between the divine and 
the human worlds, because their essence was halfway between that of gods and 
that of humans.” 

Tasso’s system in the Messaggiero needs daemons because, unlike angels, 
daemons have a kind of body. The Messenger defines daemons in Aristotelian 
terms as “substances that are corporeal, rational, able to suffer pain, and 
immortal.” Conversely, he says, angels are “incorporeal, intellectual and 
immortal, and unable to suffer pain.”23 Angels and daemons share the qualities of 
rationality and immortality, but they differ in that daemons have a body of some 
subtle substance like air, and thus can feel pain; since angels have no bodies, 
they are immune to pain. (Gabriel’s body is thus truly fictive when he appears to 
Goffredo.) The Messenger will go on to explain that daemons’ bodily substance 
is so subtle that human senses cannot normally perceive it. Yet, long before he 
becomes visible, the Messenger makes his body known through the sense of 
touch, and implies that he becomes visible by assuming a second body (11). 
Likewise, he teaches Torquato that the human soul and body are conjoined by 
means of an intermediate body: “‘difficilmente |’anima vostra, pura e semplice e 


21 Tasso is implicitly reacting against, and probably drawing on, books 8 and 9 of Augustine’s City 
of God, which redefines Neoplatonic daemons as devils. Some care is required to determine when 
Tasso is referring to demons (demoni) and when to daemons (démoni). I have seen no edition that 
attempts to make the distinction, though Tasso’s overt use of Neoplatonism argues in favor of 
démoni being his normal intention. I shall use “daemon” and “daemonic” when ontology is at issue, 
especially the question of the daemonic body, “demon” and “demonic” only when referring to 
Christian devils. 
22 Plato 47(Symposium 202E-203A). “Daemonic forces thus became participants in the cosmic 
drama of man versus god, almost as if the daemons were the relationships, personified, of man to 
gow (Fletcher 61). 

Tasso, Dialoghi 48, 56, cf. 37; ed. Mazzali. The definition is based on Apuleius’s treatise on the 
daemon of Socrates, but Tasso could have had it from Augustine 262. Baldassarri wrongly sees 
Tasso as “indifferent” to the distinction between angels and daemons (276n.). 


192 Walter Stephens 


immortale, si potrebbe accompagnare con coteste miste e caduche membra 
terrene, s’ella co ’] mezzo d’un corpo piu puro e piu lieve e sottile non 
s’accompagnasse” (13). 

To understand the intimacy between Tasso’s reasoning and the inquisitors’ 
practice, we have to explore the boundary between cosmology and ontology. 
Torquato does not immediately accept the Messenger’s notion of a necessary 
distinction between angels and daemons. Following in the Humanist tradition of 
dignitas hominis, he objects that daemons are ontologically superfluous. 
Humanity is the only necessary and logical link between the brute beasts and the 
angels, since humans have both a mortal body and an immortal soul. But the 
Messenger greets this distinction condescendingly: 


— Bene argomenti; nondimeno, si come 1’anima de |’uomo é mezzo fra |’anima de’ 
bruti e gli intelletti angelici, cosi anco, se 1;uomo dovesse esser il perfetto mezzo tra 
luna e l’altra natura, dovrebbe il suo corpo in parte al corpo de li animali e in parte a’ 
corpi celesti assomigliarsi; ma essendo il corpo umano non men sottoposto a tutte le 
passioni e a tutti gli accidenti, né men corruttibile che sia quel de’ bruti, ne seguita 
che si debba dare un corpo che fra ’] celeste e quel de’ bruti sia con debita 
participazione interposto: e questo @ quel de’ demoni, il quale @ acconcio a patire 
com’é il corpo de l’animale e de ]’uomo, e incorruttibile come il corpo celeste, perché 
mai non muoiano 1 demoni, quantunque alcuni abbian creduto che muoian dopo 
lunghissimi tempi. 

(Dialoghi 37, ed. Mazzali) 


Humanity mediates only the hierarchy of created souls. The concept of demonic 
corporeality is therefore necessary in order to mediate the transition between the 
celestial bodies, which are imperishable and impassible, and terrestrial bodies, 
including human, which are all perishable and passible. This in-between space of 
the imperishable and passible is the realm of the daemonic body. 

Since this dialogue mentions witches only in passing, it has had no effect 
on the historiography of witch-hunting. But its obsessive attention to the 
problem of the daemonic body explains the hidden motivation for persecuting 
women as witches. Tasso’s argument can be made quite simple: if witches do 
not have sex with demons, then we have no guarantee that demons exist; thus, 
he implies, we have no guarantee that angels exist, and hence no guarantee of the 
existence of God. At first, Tasso’s rehearsal of the witch-mythos seems 
deceptively perverse because of its exclusive concentration on sex: 


. .. que’ demoni che malvagi sono detti da l’ufficio loro, con le donne in quella guisa 
si congiungono che voi uomini solete; e perch’essi non potrebbono per sé generare, 
gittano il seme d’alcun uomo nel ventre de la donna, ch’é di quelle che streghe sono da 
voi domandate: e da si fatti congiungimenti nascono i maghi, quale fu Merlino, che fu 
giudicato figliuolo del demonio. 

(Dialoghi 55-56, ed. Mazzali) 





Tasso and the Witches 193 


This passage names the inquisitorial mythos that has given the whole dialogue 
its telos for nearly sixty pages: the assertion that witches were not only the 
apprentices but also the sexual slaves of Satan and other devils. Demonic 
copulation is the most bizarre aspect of inquisitorial witch-mythology, and it has 
been one of the most puzzling. But to understand the myth of demonic 
copulation is to begin answering both of the major questions about the witch- 
hunt: how (in what manner) inquisitors believed what they professed, and why 
they targeted women. 

Tasso’s distinction between angels and daemons provides the clue that 
explains why witches were predominantly conceptualized as women, for it 
explicates the corporeal basis of the witch’s contact with the demonic world. 
Tasso could have read about demonic copulation in Malleus Maleficarum or any 
one of a dozen other manuals. The source is not important. What matters is how 
Tasso uses the concept of demonic copulation to guarantee the existence of God: 
he modifies a detail of inquisitorial demonology in order to make the system 
more logical. Inquisitors followed Thomas Aquinas and other Catholic doctors of 
the faith in claiming that angels and devils were both absolutely incorporeal, and 
could only fabricate fictive bodies by compacting air and vapors (the technical 
term was inspissation).** Tasso evidently found this explanation inadequate to 
make demonic copulation possible. Thus he fell back on the Neoplatonic 
conception of the daemon’s body as both subtle and proper (or intrinsic) so as to 
attenuate as far as possible the salto between spirit and flesh. 

In Tasso’s system as in the inquisitors’, both the daemon and the witch are 
less important for their spiritual qualities than for their physical, somatic ones. 
This appears in the deployment of one of Tasso’s most significant keywords 
(congiungere) in the two passages that distinguish angels from daemons 
(Dialoghi 48-56, ed. Mazzali).2>° The task of angels is to bind human nature to 
the divinity by acting as messengers — the etymological significance of the 
word angelos, and the inspiration for Tasso’s title. But the function of daemons, 
or at least of maleficent demons, is to copulate (congiungersi) with witches in 
the same way that male humans copulate with other women. There is a 
symmetry here. Both angels and demons are agents of love. But whereas demons 
conjoin at the corporeal level, angels perform purely spiritual mediation or 
conjunction, precisely because, as Tasso’s Messenger states, they love in a 
fashion very different from that of human males (“perch’amano in modo assai 
diverso da l’uomo” Dialoghi 56, ed. Mazzali). The implication of Tasso’s 
reasoning is that if there are no witches, that is, no women who copulate with 


24 “According to the scholastics, demons, like angels, were pure spirits, possessing no flesh or 
blood. They could, however, take on the appearance of a human or an animal body by mixing the 
air with various vapours from the Earth so as to create a non-corporeal or aerial body. This body, 
being composed of natural elements, did have a physical reality and it could perform certain bodily 
functions, such as dancing or the sexual act” (Levack 30). Cf. Kramer and Sprenger 21-31. 

For congiungere, see Stephens, “Saint Paul” 181-82. 


194 Walter Stephens 


demons, then we cannot prove the existence of the spirit-world. And indeed, the 
Messenger states this explicitly: 


E cominciando distender gli argomenti da gli effetti maravigliosi, se sono i maghi e 
le streghe e li spiritati, sono i demoni; ma di quelli non si pud dubitare ch’in ogni eta 
non se ne siano ritrovati alcuni: dunque é irragionevole dubitare che si ritrovino i 
demoni. 


(Dialoghi 21, ed. Mazzali)”® 


What makes this passage simultaneously hideous and pathetic is its logical 
necessity within the cosmology that Tasso has been constructing. This search 
for the demonic (or daemonic) body is the symptom that connects Tasso’s 
melancholy to the spiritual malaise that drove three centuries of witch-hunting in 
Western Europe.?7 

The single most significant indicator of the affinity between Tasso’s 
Neoplatonic demonology and the inquisitors’ Christian one is their agreement on 
the importance of the witch. Although none of them admits it fully, they all 
imply that, if we cannot prove that witches exist, then we cannot prove the 
existence of daemons. Thus, we cannot prove that we live in an immanent, 
providential universe, or that God intervenes at all in human affairs. At the limit 
of this train of reasoning lies the recognition that we can never prove that God 
even exists, as the Cambridge Platonist Henry More recognized a century after 
Tasso. In a prefatory letter to Joseph Glanvill’s Sadducismus Triumphatus 
(1681) he declared that “the confession of Witches against their own lives [is a] 
palpable Evidence, [along with] the miraculous feats they perform, that there are 
bad Spirits, which will necessarily open a door to the belief that there are good 
ones, and lastly that there is a God” (Kors and Peters 299). Whether the 
superhuman bodies that copulate with witches are fictive or intrinsic, human 
knowledge of the divine requires some form of such copulation. The witch is 
quite literally the copula of the cosmos. 

The distortion of folk healing and sorcery by the inquisitors — that is, by 
the literate (and especially clerical) elite — has the same teleological thrust as 


26 Tn this section, the Messenger is using a form of argument associated with astronomy, “saving 
the appearances.” Just as retrograde planetary motion is the effect or “appearance” to be saved 
by positing epicycles, so the existence of witches, sorcerers and the possessed is the effect or 
appearance to be saved by positing daemons. (Note however that in both astronomy and 
demonology, “saving the appearances” would be more correctly termed “saving the theory,” since 
the object is to protect the theory from disproof by observed phenomena.) The Messenger is 
preparing a homology that will emerge only at the climax of his argumentation: the contention that 
daemons “move” the bodies of witches just as angelic intelligences move the heavenly bodies. 
However, by deciding to adopt the astronomical mode of argumentation, Torquato’s Messenger is 
tacitly admitting the remoteness of God, and God’s inaccessibility to conclusive human proof. 

Schiesari (199) reads the Messenger’s body as “no more than a fictional representation of the 
subject” Tasso and an instantiation of castration-anxiety. 





Tasso and the Witches 195 


the logic of Tasso’s Messenger: toward demonic copulation as an ultimate proof 
of immanence. This ridiculous, degrading, and pathetic fiction epitomizes the 
profound difference between the inquisitorial witch-mythos and that of the 
illiterate masses. Folk culture depended on the notion of the witch’s maleficium 
or evil spell. Left to themselves, the folk were clearly interested in social 
control, for they had two motivations for believing in maleficent magic. First, it 
explained disorder in everyday life, by making a visible human agent responsible 
for the mysterious death of cows, crops, babies or libido. Second, it justified the 
expulsion of troublesome, non-conforming persons from the midst of the 
community.”® The folk view of maleficium may have been essentially animistic 
at least part of the time; that is, spirits of some sort may have been involved. 
But those spirits were not originally defined as demons or devils. 

In contrast to witch-accusers among the populace, the inquisitors showed 
little concern for social control: allegations of harm caused by the defendants’ 
maleficia were important to inquisitors almost solely as evidence of supposed 
contact with Satan. They defined this Satanic commerce as the basis of all 
maleficium. Historians of witch-hunting define the demonic pact — a formal 
agreement that bound over the witch’s soul to the Devil in exchange for the 
means of working maleficia — as the core element of the inquisitorial witch- 
mythos. Indeed, proof of actual maleficium was almost never required for 
conviction, whereas proof of a demonic pact always was. Furthermore, some 
inquisitors openly declared that if it could be proved a person had committed no 
maleficium, she should nonetheless die if she had confessed to a making pact 
with the Devil.29 

As regards the overt legalistic foundation for acquiring conviction, historians 
are right to identify the demonic pact as absolutely determinant. Yet the core 
symptom of the pathology behind the witch-hunt was corporeal, not spiritual: 
the inquisitors’ notion that witches regularly copulated with devils, including 
with Satan himself.*° For reasons that are undoubtedly complex, the 
inquisitorial mentality considered penetration and insemination as the ultimate 
experience of corporeal reality. Although the Devil’s lack of a real body within 
Scholastic ontology should have been problematic, inquisitors maintained that 
both angels and devils could fabricate fictive bodies. Thus devils (though not 
angels) could have sex with women and even impregnate them with semen 
“stolen” from human males. This truly fictional body filled the gap that 
threatened to prove a cosmic order of transcendence and salto rather than 


28 Rosen, Lamer, Macfarlane and Thomas. 
Martin Luther opined that witches “should be bumt even if they did no harm, merely for making 
a pact with the Devil” while Benedict Carpzov in 1635 “maintained that even those who merely 
believed that they had been at the sabbat should be executed, for the belief implied the will” 
revor-Roper 137, 159). 
By 1486 it was possible to claim that “it is common to all of them [witches] to practise camal 
copulation with devils” (Kramer and Sprenger 99). 


196 Walter Stephens 


immanence and salita. A cui bono analysis reveals the entire scenario of demonic 
copulation as an obsession that could appeal only to the inquisitors, for women 
who confessed to it also “admitted” that the experience had been painful and 
unpleasant. The pain and joylessness of the Devil’s sex, like the insipidity or 
inedibility of the food he offered, and the evanescence of his other rewards, was 
finally nothing more than a sop to the inquisitors’ consciences, which would not 
allow them to predicate positive benefits of human contact with the Devil. Yet 
that contact was necessary, and in quantity, to the inquisitors’ metaphysical well- 
being. Inquisitors overtly conceptualized this copulation in the same way that 
peasants regarded maleficium as a fearsome invasion of chaos and disorder. But at 
a deeper level it served as a reassuring sign of the ultimate order, 
comprehensibility, and providentiality of the universe. 

Witch-hunting as legalized mass murder was thus primarily the expression 
of a cosmology, or rather, of a profound shift in cosmologies. As the witch-hunt 
progressed, other, more immediate and concrete evidence of corporeal contact 
between women and demons was required: prominent scars and birthmarks that 
could be explained as the Devil’s “mark” or signature, moles and wens that could 
be identified as “witch’s tits,” whence a devil, incarnated in the form of a 
“familiar” pet, supposedly suckled blood from the witch. The final desperate 
stage of the witch-hunt saw inquisitors prosecuting witches for causing devils to 
possess innocent victims (as at Loudun and Salem). Thus the inquisitor 
witnessed a wedding of flesh and spirit before his own eyes, in a form of contact 
more intimate even than sex. But, as the Devil himself was to tell another 
hallucinating intellectual exactly three centuries after Torquato: “Spiritualists . . 
. think they’re serving faith because devils show their little horns to them from 
the other world. ‘This,’ they say, ‘is a material proof, so to speak, that the other 
world exists.” The other world and material proofs, la-di-da! And, after all, who 
knows whether proof of the devil is also a proof of God?” (Dostoevsky 636-37). 
Indeed, once witches were regularly charged with causing possession, the hunt 
soon collapsed.*! Once the inquisitor had witnessed the devil enflesh himself at 
human command, the demonic had reached its outer limit of tangibility. On the 
other side was literally nothing: Christians had to confront their unacknowledged 
skepticism, and either embrace it (as Sadducceeism, deism, etc.) or recast it as 
Christian skepticism, as some form of negative theology about a transcendent 
God. 

Tasso intuited the homology and interdependence between the witch’s 
demonic copulation and the hypostatic union of the Incarnation. Demonology 
and Christianity are a perilous mix, as the inquisitors demonstrate; the crypto- 
Platonic ontology behind any systematic Christian demonology threatens the 
uniqueness of Christ as both mezzo and mediatore. In comparison with a 
construct like the witch’s demonic copulation, the doctrine of the Incarnation 


31 Klaits 111, 104. Among others, Kramer and Sprenger had anticipated this outbreak (128-34). 


Tasso and the Witches 197 


still presents a universe of salto, rather than salita: the single hypostasis 
whereby humanity and divinity are conjoined in Christ as their sole and 
sufficient mean term (mezzo) seems abrupt and even crude.*? And it is very 
distant in history. 

Both Christianity and Neoplatonic demonology condemn Manichaeism and 
other dualistic religions for expressing the fear that God is inaccessible to 
creatures of flesh. Both attempt to bridge the gap or salto between flesh and 
spirit by positing a daemonic body that is a union of opposites, a spiritual body 
or embodied spirit. But as mean or mezzo the daemonic body betrays a yearning 
for the infinitely divisible: “Coming from the term that means ‘to divide,’ 
daemon implies an endless series of divisions of all important aspects of the 
world into separate elements for study and control” (Fletcher 59). The divisions 
can be comforting only insofar as they refute the very notion of division, by 
becoming infinitely gradated. 

Thus, even if it obscures its Neoplatonic assumptions, a systematic 
Christian demonology cannot avoid falling into dualism through the very 
exercise of gradualism, and thence attributing determinative importance to Satan. 
Demonology betrays the fear of God’s inaccessibility, for if there are necessary 
ontological mean-terms between humanity and divinity, then without Satan there 
is no humanly understandable proof of God’s existence. In this sense, 
demonology replaces Christ with Satan as the ultimate guarantor of God’s 
existence and accessibility. Just as the Neoplatonic daemon displaced Man as the 
mezzo between angel and beast, so Satan displaces Christ as the mezzo between 
humanity and divinity, and the witch displaces the Blessed Virgin as the vessel 
of that mediation. Thus, paradoxically, the more systematic a Christian 
demonology, the less it can dare openly to assert the ultimate importance of 
Satan. On the moral plane, it must go on wrestling with the conundrums of 
theodicy, continually seeking to prove that God both permits and frustrates evil. 
Likewise, on the ontological plane it must construct the category of witches for 
proof of immanence; yet although this proof is indispensable, it must be treated 
with abhorrence and loathing, rather than reverence and gratitude. 

Tasso’s misogyny cannot be denied, and that of the inquisitors was extreme; 
but in neither case was misogyny a simple hatred or fear of women. Instead, I 
suspect that it is the obverse of some more positive tendencies that Carolyn 
Bynum examined in Holy Feast, Holy Fast. It appears that the female body 
became the preferred medium for the demonstration of incarnational doctrines by 
the thirteenth century, and Bynum argues that Western Christianity not only 


32 « 8 necessario che tra Iddio e l’uomo si ponga alcun mezzo, o pill tosto molti, percioché, se 

tra Iddio e l’uomo fosse un solo mezzo, una sola sarebbe la specie intelligibile; ma sono molti, 

percioché non debbono essere in minor numero de le sensibili, ma pit tosto in maggiore, 

conciosiacosa che le intelligibili non sono in tempo come le sensibili, ma in etemita, e l’eccelenza 

4 meen ricerca che in lei siano pi specie e pid’ perfette che nel tempo” (Dialoghi 35-36. Ed. 
azzali 


198 Walter Stephens 


depreciated, but also honored women by assigning them a status as 
representatives of “the carnal condition” and of “the experience of fleshliness in 
its consummate form, femaleness.” Male fascination with female mystics and 
martyrs made women’s bodies 


vehicles of men’s speech; men defined themselves through the flesh they evoked, in 
the case of hagiographers, or beheld and consecrated, in the case of the confessors 
who accompanied most living saints and acted as witnesses and praise-singers. . . . 
Bynum’s point is that women speak through their own bodies, their own ‘suffering 
and generativity,’ rooted in biological metaphors like birthing and nursing, to which 
the female sex has a prior claim; female somatic presence abolishes the intermediary 
stage men occupy, which makes them need women to speak through, to think with. 
(Warner 16)? 


Recall Tasso’s Messenger’s rejection of the Humanistic topos of dignitas 
hominis: the idea that Man — i.e., the idealized male — is the hinge of the 
universe. Taken in himself, the idealized male of the Humanist tradition is 
marginal, left outside the great chain of being, in a sense far different and far less 
comforting than the one the elder Pico intended when he made that same 
assertion. Dignitas hominis was intended to isolate Man in a positive sense as 
the microcosm; but by denying him a single, static essence like the ones 
assigned to women and daemons, the humanistic ideal of human dignity isolated 
the ideal male in a negative sense as well, cutting him off from the system of 
immanence. The male human alone cannot bridge the gap between brute flesh 
and angelic spirit.*4 Such a bridge must be formed by the conjunction of woman 
— the fleshly body in its purest form, chemically speaking — and a daemonic 
body, which is simultaneously the subtlest form of corporeality and the lowest 
form of the suprahuman. Woman and daemon represent, in slightly different 
degrees, the most corporeal “isotope” of spirit. Thus one outlet of the male need 
to “speak through” and “think with” women’s bodies was the inquisitors’ 
ventriloquism, their quite literal speaking through and thinking with the bellies 
of women. 


33 Quoted from Wamer 16. See also Rubin 168-69. One may certainly object that if women, 
especially witches, were being honored for their presumed more fleshly condition, such honor is 
not enviable. 

4 Pico della Mirandola 3-8. The Messenger’s is a profoundly anti-Humanist view of the universe: 
man is not Pico’s chameleon; rather, the daemons are. But to the extent that both Humanists and 
witch-hunters equated femaleness with passivity and corporeality, the two views have an uneasy 
resemblance. Women cannot act out their transformation into something superhuman. They can 
only submit to the other possibility Pico envisioned — brutish degradation — by submitting to the 
sexual violence of daemons. But human males of the sort Pico envisioned do not fit into the system 
at all. Kramer and Sprenger theorize a distinction between female witches who fornicate with 
incubi and males who do so with succubi: “. . . it does not appear that men thus devilishly fornicate 
with the same full degree of culpability; for men, being by nature intellectually stronger than 
women, are more apt to abhor such practices” (164). 





Tasso and the Witches 199 


For Tasso as for inquisitors, the ostensible imperative of witch-hunting, 
“Cherchez la femme,” hid the deeper objective that drove the hunt: “Cherchez le 
diable.” Tasso enunciated it in a kind of syllogism: “if witches, then daemons, 
then immanence, [then God].” This syllogism is half a palindrome; it is a 
rationalist’s anagram of the fideist’s syllogism, “God, thus immanence, hence 
demons, thus witches.” Superficially, there is a great methodological difference 
between Tasso’s approach to demonology and that of the inquisitors. Whereas 
Tasso used language to seek the invisible daemonic body, the inquisitors did so 
by breaking and burning the bodies of real human beings. But in fact, when they 
tortured witches, inquisitors were enacting Tasso’s syllogism, attempting to 
prove it by experimentation: “if this is a witch, then a demon exists, thus 
immanence is possible, hence God may exist and be accessible. But — and this 
is a Scholastic ‘but,’ which means ‘my point is proved’ — this is a witch.” By 
always extracting the same eyewitness account (“confession”) of the Devil’s 
immanence, the inquisitors were expressing the unconscious of their professed 
purpose. Their deep goal was not the elimination of demonic and Satanic 
activity, but the proof that it existed. Their conscious motto was Jesus’ “Vade 
Satana” but its unconscious form was Faustus’s “Veni, veni Mephastophile.”*° 

This is the deepest sense in which the inquisitors were projecting their own 
psychology onto the witches. In reality inquisitors were performing the very 
crime of which they accused the witches: they were conjuring the presence of the 
Devil. While some witches supposedly used figurative bodies to give 
instructions to devils (by perforating and burning waxen dolls or desecrating the 
Eucharistic host), inquisitors in effect tried to summon devils by violating the 
bodies of real people. From a functionalist point of view, the witch’s death 
ensured the finality and integrity of the inquisitor’s projection, for it prevented 
her from retracting or emending the ontological demonstration they had 
composed together and committed to the authenticating notary’s pen.*” Despite 
her prized status as the Devil’s accuser, the witch had to be killed as his 
accomplice, ostensibly to atone for her sin in summoning him; but at an 
unconscious level she assumed and atoned for the inquisitor’s sin, the invocation 
of Satan. 

The deep purpose of the witch-hunt was also unconscious for the simple 
reason that it was unacknowledged. There was only one question that the 
inquisitors’ activity precluded them from asking out loud, and that was the only 
question that gave meaning to what they were doing. To paraphrase a riddle of 


35 This is “the typical pattem of thinking of Westem rationalism, the modus ponens: ‘if p then q; 
but p: therefore q’” (Eco 27). 
36 Matthew 4.10; Marlowe 26 (5.29). 

As many historians have documented, recantations were a serious problem, for once torture 
ended, many defendants tried to vindicate their own versions of events. Often they were tortured 
again or threatened with such penalties as being bumed alive rather than strangled at the last 
moment if they did not withdraw their recantations. 


200 Walter Stephens 


Borges about riddles: “in an experiment whose ultimate purpose is to prove the 
existence of the Devil, what is the only forbidden question? Answer: ‘Does the 
Devil exist?’”28 To my knowledge, no inquisitor ever enunciated this deep 
objective in any overt or systematic way. From the inquisitors’ point of view, to 
admit they were seeking contact, however indirect, with Satan would have been 
to confess blasphemy and heresy, the same rationalist skepticism — ultimately 
an unwilling atheism — that plagued Tasso. To have done so would have been 
to admit that they were the real criminals of the “witch craze.” 

To enunciate such doubt linguistically with any degree of safety seems to 
have called for special forms of immunity, which were unavailable to the clerical 
elite. One was madness, and Tasso was further protected by the physiological 
symptomology of melancholia. He reduced the institutional logic of witch- 
hunting to a syllogism of devastating simplicity, which reveals how early 
modern Christianity, both Protestant and Catholic, had painted itself into an 
epistemological corner. The inquisitorial subculture of literate Western 
Christianity had been led by its most exquisite instruments and exercises to 
conclude — in its collective or institutional unconscious — that the existence of 
the witch was the only remaining guarantee of the existence of God. It was thus 
not superstition and credulity that led inquisitors to persecute witches, but the 
skepticism engendered by their exercise of reason and logic to test the very tenets 
of Christianity. As the mouthpiece of inquisitorial logic, Tasso’s Messenger 
also spoke aloud its great unconscious premise, and illuminated the depths of an 
anguish that the Counter-Reformation orthodoxy of Gerusalemme liberata could 
not assuage. 


Dartmouth College 


Works Cited 


Augustine, Saint. The City of God. Trans. Marcus Dods. New York: Modem Library, 
1950. 

Baldassarri, Guido. “Fra ‘Dialogo’ e ‘Nocturnales Annotationes’: prolegomeni alla 
lettura del Messaggiero.” La rassegna della letteratura italiana 76 (1972): 265- 
93. 

Basile, Bruno. Poéta melancholicus: tradizione classica e follia nell'ultimo Tasso. 
Pisa: Pacini, 1984. 

Bernard of Clairvaux, Saint. Jn Festo Sancti Michaelis. Sermo I. Patrologiae Cursus 
Completus. Series Latina. Gen. ed. Jacques Migne. Vol. 183. Paris: 1879. Cols. 
447-51. 


38 “Tn a riddle whose answer is chess, what is the only prohibited word?’ I thought a moment and 
replied, ‘The word chess’” (Borges 27). 





Tasso and the Witches 201 


Borges, Jorge Luis. Labyrinths: Selected Stories and Other Writings. Ed. Donald A. 
Yates and James E. Irby. New York: New Directions, 1964. 

Bynum, Carolyn Walker. Holy Feast and Holy Fast: The Religious Significance of 
Food to Medieval Women. Berkeley: U of California P, 1987. 

Dante Alighieri. The Divine Comedy. 6 vols. Ed. Charles S. Singleton. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1970-1975. 

Dostoevsky, Fyodor. The Brothers Karamazov. Trans. Richard Pevear and Larissa 
Volokhonsky. New York: Vintage Books, 1991. 

Eco, Umberto. Jnterpretation and Overinterpretation. Ed. Stefan Collini. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1992. 

Fletcher, Angus. Allegory: The Theory of a Symbolic Mode. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 
1964. 

Klaits, Joseph. Servants of Satan: The Age of the Witch Hunts. Bloomington: 
Indiana UP, 1985. 

Kors, Alan C., and Edward Peters, eds. Witchcraft in Europe, 1100-1700: A 
Documentary Study. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1972. 

Kramer, Heinrich, and Jacob Sprenger. The Malleus Maleficarum. Trans. Montague 
Summers. 1928. New York: Dover, 1971. 

Lamer, Christina. Enemies of God: The Witch-hunt in Scotland. Baltimore: Johns 
Hopkins UP, 1981. 

. Witchcraft and Religion: The Politics of Popular Belief. Ed. Alan 
Macfarlane. New York: Blackwell, 1984. 

Levack, Brian P. The Witch-Hunt in Early Modern Europe. London: Longman, 1987. 

Lovejoy, Arthur O. The Great Chain of Being: A Study of the History of an Idea. 
1936. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1964. 

Macfarlane, Alan. Witchcraft in Tudor and Stuart England: A Regional and 
Comparative Study. New York: Harper Torchbooks, 1970. 

Marlowe, Christopher. Dr Faustus. Ed. Roma Gill. London/New York: A. & C. 
Black/W. W. Norton, 1989. 

Mereu, Italo. Storia dell’ intolleranza in Europa. Sospettare e punire: Il’ inquisizione 
come modello di violenza legale. Sec. ed. Milano: Bompiani, 1988. 

Nietzsche, Friedrich. Twilight of the Idols and The Anti-Christ. Trans. R. J. 
Hollingdale. London: Penguin, 1990. 

Petrarca, Francesco. Canzoniere. Ed. Gianfranco Contini. Torino: Einaudi, 1964. 

Pico della Mirandola, Giovanni. On the Dignity of Man; On Being and the One; 
Heptaplus. Trans. Glenn Wallis, Paul J. W. Miller, and Douglas Carmichael. 
Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, 1965. 

Pittorru, Fabio. Torquato Tasso: l’uomo, il poeta, il cortigiano. Milano: Bompiani, 
1982. 

Plato. Symposium. Trans. Alexander Nehamas and Paul Woodruff. Indianapolis: 
Hackett Publishing Company, 1989. 

Quint, David. Origin and Originality in Renaissance Literature: Versions of the 
Source. New Haven: Yale UP, 1983. 

Rosen, Barbara. Witchcraft in England, 1558-1618. 2nd ed. Amherst: U of 
Massachusetts P, 1991. 

Rubin, Miri. Corpus Christi: The Eucharist in Late Medieval Culture. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1990. 





202 Walter Stephens 


Schiesari, Juliana. The Gendering of Melancholia: Feminism, Psychoanalysis, and 
the Symbolics of Loss in Renaissance Literature. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1992. 

Solerti, Angelo. Vita di Torquato Tasso. 3 vols. Torino: Loescher, 1895. 

Stephens, Walter. “Metaphor, Sacrament, and the Problem of Allegory in 
Gerusalemme liberata.” I Tatti Studies 4 (1991): 217-47. 

. “Saint Paul Among the Amazons: Gender and Authority in Gerusalemme 
liberata.” Discourses of Authority in Medieval and Renaissance Literature. Ed. 
Kevin Brownlee and Walter Stephens. Hanover: UP of New England, 1989. 169- 
200. 

Tasso, Torquato. Dialoghi. Edizione critica. 3 vols. Ed. Ezio Raimondi. Firenze: 
Sansoni, 1958. 

. Dialoghi. Ed. Ettore Mazzali. 1959. Torino: Einaudi, 1976. 

. Gerusalemme liberata. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. 1957. Milano: Mondadori, 
1979. 

. Lettere. Ed. Ettore Mazzali. 1959. Turin: Einaudi, 1978. 

. Le lettere di Torquato Tasso, disposte per ordine di tempo. 5 vols. Ed. Cesare 
Guasti. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1852-55. 

Thomas, Keith. Religion and the Decline of Magic. New York: Scribner's, 1971. 

Trevor-Roper, H. R. “The European Witch-craze of the Sixteenth and Seventeenth 
Centuries.” Religion, the Reformation, and Social Change, and Other Essays. 
London: Macmillan, 1967. 90-192. 

Warmer, Marina. “Watch Your Tongue.” London Review of Books. 20 August 1992. 


Valeria Finucci 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: 
Moderata Fonte e Tredici canti del Floridoro 


“O decus Italiae virgo” 
(Virgilio, Aeneid 11:508) 





Quando si pensa al romanzo cavalleresco si pensa di solito a una narrativa 
tipicamente maschile: quella di un eroe in cerca delle proprie origini e in 
movimento verso il raggiungimento di un destino che coincide con la creazione 
della dinastia che il poeta che canta le sue gesta sta servendo. E vero 
naturalmente che le donne hanno abitato le pagine del genere fin dall’inizio e che 
era solo prendendone atto che Ludovico Ariosto aveva equamente spartito le parti 
nella prima ottava del suo Orlando furioso (1532): “Le donne, i cavallier, l’arme, 
gli amori,/ le cortesie, l’audaci imprese io canto."! Leggendo questi versi con lo 
zodiaco in mente, Tommaso Campanella avrebbe poi asserito che Ariosto non 
aveva molta scelta; il suo era, dopo tutto, il secolo delle donne: “invero egli fu al 
tempo del secolo femminile: perd comincid da ‘le donne’ e le difende quanto 
pud”.? Sotto il triangolo del Toro e col transito del sole in segno femminile, 
Campanella scrivera in Articuli prophetales, le donne dominano (“et feminae, 
quoniam absis Solis in femineum transivit signum, dominium acceperunt”) in 
buona compagnia con gli effeminati (““dominatus feminarum vel effeminatorum 
in vestibus variis”).3 

Con buona pace di Campanella, le cose sembra siano andate in maniera piu 
rassicurante per gli uomini in quel periodo perché le donne, come al solito, 
hanno continuato a non avere molto spazio nella Storia scritta con la lettera 
maiuscola anche se, é vero, sono entrate nella letteratura. Ma una cosa é essere 
l’io dell’enunciato, non importa quanto indispensabile, di un testo, e una cosa é 
essere 1’io dell’enunciazione. E per quel che riguarda il ruolo delle donne come 
autrici di romanzi cavallereschi non fa nemmeno senso parlare di marginalita 
femminile: come la produzione libraria e i cataloghi di biblioteca testimoniano, 
le donne semplicemente in questo campo non hanno fatto numero né hanno 
avuto peso: a tutt’oggi, che io sappia, l’interesse per la loro produzione ¢é, de 
facto, zero. 


1 Ludovico Ariosto, Orlando furioso, I, ottava 1. In seguito citato come OF in parentesi nel testo. 
2 Tommaso Campanella, “Poetica,” in Tutte le opere, ac. di L. Firpo. Vol. 1, Milano, Mondadori, 
1954, p. 337. 

Pp. 273 e 269. Cfr. Lina Bolzoni, “Campanella e le donne: fascino e negazione della 
differenza,” Annali a’/talianistica 7 (1989), 193-206, pp. 209-10. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


204 Valeria Finucci 


Eppure, se Ariosto e Tasso potevano cantare di donne e armi mentre se ne 
stavano seduti tranquilli a tavolino a Palazzo Este, non c’é ragione di pensare che 
le donne non avessero potuto fare altrettanto, magari rimuginando versi mentre, 
come vuole l’iconografia, erano occupate a filare. Se Ariosto aveva avuto 113 
edizioni del suo Furioso in quaranta anni (1540-80),‘ si poteva credere che la sua 
formula era non magica, ma copiabile, e quindi aperta anche a genii occasionali. 
Gia nel Seicento, Luca Pastrovinchi, in un sonetto in lode di Isabella Andreini, 
aveva messo in chiaro che non c’era niente di strano per le donne “Tl cantar |’armi 
e i gloriosi eroi,/ Ch’alto é lo spirto, se imbecille il sesso.”> Ma c’é una 
relazione pil intima, sorprendentemente, che questo sesso sembra aver avuto con 
il romanzo cavalleresco. In una lettera del 1559 a Bernardo Tasso, Sperone 
Speroni, chiamando in causa come al solito le donne per motivi che non hanno 
assolutamente niente a che fare con loro, aveva paragonato la narrativa inventata 
dall’ Ariosto a una donna con parti del corpo non ben troppo formate ma al tempo 
stesso piacevoli: “si pud agguagliare a una donna che ha poche parti che belle 
siano; solamente ha un non so che onde ella piaccia alla gente.”® Chi meglio 
delle donne allora avrebbe potuto descrivere questo “non so che” che tanto 
entusiasmava il pubblico, questa deformita eccitante, visto che erano loro a 
incamare lo specifico femminile? Se il romanzo cavalleresco era costituito come 
il corpo delle donne e non solo costruito sul corpo delle donne, c’era senz’altro 
qualcosa che le donne, per esperienza personale, avrebbero potuto contribuire alla 
sua mitologia. 

A spulciare bene, c’é un numero sorprendente di scrittrici di romanzi 
cavallereschi che hanno pubblicato negli anni immediatamente successivi al 
successo strepitoso del Furioso. Nel 1551, per esempio, Laura Terracina dava 
alle stampe, a Venezia, il Discorso sopra il principio di tutti i canti dell’ Orlando 
furioso, un testo ripubblicato poi quattordici volte nei prossimi novanta anni e 
perfino menzionato come sostitutivo di quello dell’ Ariosto, per la sua moralita, 
da alcuni insegnanti di Venezia nel 1587. Il maestro Ascanius Fontana, per 
esempio, annotava che “quelli che vogliono imparar leggere d’ottava rima li 
faccio imparar el libro del Terrazina”; da parte sua Alexius Salto ammetteva che 
anche lui usava questa allegorizzazione in sostituzione del testo originale nel suo 
programma accademico (“il Terracina che fa [l’allegoria] sopra tutti i primi canti 
del Furioso”).’ Che adesso ambedue questi maestri abbiano oscurato il sesso della 


4 Si veda Daniel Javitch, Proclaiming a Classic. The Canonization of the Orlando furioso, 
Princeton, Princeton UP, 1991, p. 10. Sul successo del genere cavalleresco si veda Marina Beer, 
“Nella biblioteca di Don Chisciotte”, in Romanzi di cavalleria. I! Furioso e il romanzo italiano nel 
primo Cinquecento, Roma, Bulzoni, 1987, pp. 207-65. 

Citato in Antonio Belloni, // poema epico e mitologico, Milano, Vallardi, 1912, p. 271: 
6 “Risposta dello Sperone” in Delle lettere di M. Bernardo Tasso, vol. 3, p. 160. Il Tasso avrebbe 
poi definito il capolavoro dell’ Ariosto un “animal d’incerta natura” (Apologia in difesa della 
“Gerusalemme liberata” , 1585). 
a In Vittorio Baldo, Alunni, maestri e scuole in Venezia alla fine del XVI secolo, Como, New Press, 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 205 


persona che ha scritto il libro che loro avevano personalmente scelto di adottare o 
che, non sapendolo, naturalmente abbiano assunto che chiunque scriva un testo 
letterario di una certa consistenza sia un uomo non fa di certo meraviglia. 

Nel 1560 usciva a Venezia I! Meschino detto il Guerrino di Tullia d’ Aragona 
(ripubblicato poi nel 1594), una rielaborazione in 36 canti del Guerin Meschino, 
ma con uno sviluppo pid morale. Conscia del fatto che c’erano troppi “libri di 
battaglia” pieni di episodi scabrosi che le donne evitavano, o che si faceva in 
modo evitassero, la d’Aragona dichiarava di voler scrivere un testo appropriato 
per chiunque, suore, vedove e adolescenti incluse, che preferiva scriverlo in versi 
e che avrebbe considerato ambiti diversi, incluso quello spagnolo.’ 

Qualche anno dopo era Moderata Fonte, pseudonimo di Modesta Pozzo, a 
seguire la d’Aragona con un testo pubblicato a Venezia nel 1581.1 Tredici canti 
del Floridoro & un romanzo cavalleresco che ha molto di ariostesco e, se c’é 
Tasso, c’é solo Bernardo.’ E sulla Fonte che mi concentrerd nelle prossime 
pagine per entrare nel genere epico—cavalleresco attraverso un discorso di “genere” 
(maschile/femminile); il mio scopo é quello di offrire una chiave di lettura, per 
cosi dire in controluce, di una produzione ipercodificata e di esaminarne le 
modalita in un discorso che intendo leggere come sessuato. 

L’elenco, in ogni caso, non finisce qui. Nel 1606 Margherita Sarocchi 
pubblicava a Roma la Scarderbeide, “poema eroico” sulle lotte contro i Turchi di 
Giorgio Castriotto, detto lo Scarderbeg. Titolare di un cenacolo che anche 
Galileo frequentava, la Sarocchi faceva uscire una prima edizione del testo in 
nove canti con un riassunto del tredicesimo e parte del quattordicesimo; I’ edizione 
definitiva del 1623 offriva 23 canti.!° 

Laura Marinelli si presentava nel 1635 a Venezia con L’Enrico, ovvero 
Bisanzio acquistato, dove é evidente che le nuove teorie critiche hanno fatto 


1977, p. 73. Rimando anche a Paul Grendler, “Chivalric Romances in the Italian Renaissance”, 
Studies in Medieval and Renaissance History 10 (1988), 59-102. 

8 “Conoscendo quanto le donne e gli uomini sien vaghi di leggere e d’ascoltare cose piacevoli, 
andai per qualche tempo ricercando quasi tutti i libri d’istorie e di poesie che avesse la nostra 
lingua . . . con questa mia saldissima intenzione di trovar qualche libro di vaga e dilettevole 
lezione, ove non fosser cose disoneste e brutte” (in “Prefazione” a I] Meschino detto il Guerrino. 
D’ Aragona afferma di aver trovato il suo testo nella tradizione spagnola, ma in realta la tradizione 
era francese, poi toscanizzata da Andrea da Barberino in Guerin Meschino (1473). 

Il titolo completo é Tredici Canti del Floridoro / Alli sereniss. Gran Duca, et / Grand Duchessa di 
Thoscana / In Venetia, MDLXXXI. Il testo é preceduto da due sonetti della Fonte, uno in onore 
del granduca Francesco de’ Medici e |’altro della granduchessa Bianca Capello, e da tre sonetti 
scritti per lei rispettivamente da Cesare Simonetti, Bartolomeo Malombra e Gio. Nicolo Doglioni. 
Ogni canto é inoltre preceduto da una ottava, chiamata “Argomento”, che ne riassume i 
contenuto. 

Sulla Sarocchi (o Sarrocchi) Birago si veda Gian Ludovico Masetti Zannini, Motivi storici della 
educazione femminile. Scienza, lavoro, giochi, Napoli, D’Auria, 1982, pp. 39-44; A. Favaro, 
“Amici e corrispondenti di Galileo, I, Margherita Sarrocchi,” in Atti del Reale Istituto Veneto di 
Scienze, Lettere ed Arti 5 (1893-94), pp. 555-56; e Antonio Belloni, Storia letteraria d'Italia. Il 
Seicento, Milano, Vallardi, 1929, pp. 202-03. 


206 Valeria Finucci 


strada. La prefazione assicurava i lettori che l’argomento dell’Enrico era cristiano 
(tratta in 27 canti di imprese connesse alla quarta crociata e all’eroismo del doge 
Enrico Dandolo), l’eroe principale era unico e l’azione era omogenea, il tutto, 
quindi, alla moda del Tasso. Come nel caso della d’ Aragona, lo svolgimento era 
volutamente tenuto dentro parametri morali.!! Cinque anni dopo a Firenze, nel 
1640, Barbara Albizzi—Tagliamochi optava per una continuazione dell’ Eneide in 
Ascanio errante.'” Di tutti questi lavori solo due, il Meschino della d’ Aragona e 
l’Enrico della Marinelli, sono stati ripubblicati nell’Ottocento nella prestigiosa 
collana “Il Parnaso italiano”; gli altri attendono forse improbabili riscoperte.!? 
Mi sono soffermata su questa rassegna non tanto per dimostrare che c’é 
materiale per una sistemazione storiografica delle scrittrici nell’ambito della 
tradizione cavalleresca, ma per registrare la mia meraviglia a trovarne tante.!4 


11 Scrive Belloni: “dal poema della Marinella é€ affatto esclusa la parte sensuale e lasciva, ma non 
per cid vi manca |’elemento patetico e sentimentale in cui anzi riusci a fare della buona poesia” (// 
poema epico, op. cit., p. 271). Di Belloni si veda anche Gli epigoni della “Gerusalemme liberata” , 
Padova, Draghi, 1893, pp. 285-98. 

L’unico accenno al testo della Albizzi-Tagliamochi € in Leopoldo Fem, Biblioteca femminile 
italiana, Padova, Crescini, 1812, p. 330. 

3 Sebbene questa sia, che io sappia, l’unica lista di romanzi cavallereschi scritti da donne, é, a dir 
poco, incompleta. Tanto per cominciare é ristretta a romanzi effettivamente cavallereschi, anche 
se l’elenco potrebbe includere testi pubblicati nel periodo come “eroici”, quali alcuni dei poemi 
epico-religiosi in ottava rima di Lucrezia Marinelli, per esempio La colomba sacra (Venezia, 
1595) sul martirio di Santa Colomba, in quattro canti, e Amore innamorato ed impazzato (Venezia, 
1587, 1618) in dieci canti con echi di Ariosto e Poliziano; e Maddalena Salvetti Acciajoli, Davide 
perseguitato (Firenze, 1611) in soli tre canti per intervenuta morte dell’ autrice. Sulla poesia epico— 
religiosa in ottava rima con sviluppo eroico e romanzesco, un sottogenere molto praticato, 
soprattutto nel Seicento, si veda Belloni, pp. 229-34. Ci sono inoltre i brevi Argomenti di 
Maddalena Campiglia che accompagnano /! Fidamante di Curzio Gonzaga (pubblicato 
originariamente a Mantova nel 1582 e ristampato con l|’aggiunta degli “Argomenti” a Venezia nel 
1591). Il testo imita sia il Furioso dell’ Ariosto che la Liberata e il Rinaldo del Tasso e fa discendere 
la famiglia Gonzaga dal cavaliere troiano Fidamante. Si veda Belloni, Storia d’/talia, op. cit., pp. 
235-35, e Il poema epico e mitologico, op. cit., che pero non cita la Campiglia. Per il censimento, 
mi sono servita dei seguenti repertori: Marina Beer, “Appendice IT’, in op. cit., pp. 327-89; 
Antonio Belloni, “Il fallimento dell’ideale eroico”, in Storia d'Italia, op. cit., pp. 181-238; 
Salvatore Bongi, Annali di Gabriel Giolito de Ferrari, Roma, Presso i Principali Librai, 1890; 
Alessandro Cutolo, | romanzi cavallereschi in prosa e in rima del Fondo Castiglioni presso la 
Biblioteca Braidense di Milanc, Milano, Hoepli, 1944; Pietro Leopoldo Ferri, op. cit; Giuseppina 
Fumagalli, La fortuna dell’ “Orlando furioso” in Italia nel secolo XVI, Ferrara, Zuffi, 1912; Gaetano 
Melzi, “Bibliografia dei romanzi e dei poemi romanzeschi d'Italia”, in Giulio Ferrario, Storia ed 
analisi det romanzi di cavalleria, Vol. IV, Milano, Ferrario, 1829; Gaetano Melzi e Gian Paolo 
Tosi, Bibliografia dei romanzi di cavalleria in versi e in prosa italiani, Milano, Daelli, 1865; e 
Marina Zancan et al., “Appendice IIT’, in Nel cerchio della luna. Figure di donna in alcuni testi 
del XVI secolo, a c. di Marina Zancan, Venezia, Marsilio 1983, pp. 254-64. Per un esempio 
“tardo” di scrittura femminile cavalleresca vale la pena di citare il caso di Luisa Bergalli, dirigente 
insieme con il marito del teatro veneziano S. Angelo, che ha scritto La Bradamante, Venezia, 
piesso Pietro Bassaglia, 1747. 

Che ci sia stato un numero considerevole di scrittrici nel Rinascimento é diventato un cliché. Ma 
l’interesse per questa presenza si é limitato quasi esclusivamente alla poesia petrarchesca. E 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 207 


Che cosa tutto sommato puo offrire alle donne un genere letterario cosi legato 
all’immaginario maschile, un genere cosi pieno di tornei, battaglie, mostri 
marini, parate militari, elenchi genealogici e letture encomiastiche e selettive di 
fatti pi che mai cruenti? E come se la sbrigano le donne con immagini 
fantasizzate del loro, con eroine in armatura nella cui femminilita non potrebbero 
specchiarsi e con bionde vergini che non hanno niente addosso che il tipo di 
femminilita che le rende preda di rampanti desideri maschili? 

Nelle prossime pagine cerchero di mettere a fuoco il problema e offrire 
qualche ipotesi. Comincio intanto con le tre ragioni per le quali le scrittrici, 
secondo me, sarebbero potuto essere attratte dal romanzo cavalleresco. Prima di 
tutto, a chiunque studi il sedicesimo secolo appare evidente che c’é un numero 
piu che consistente di letterate che hanno scritto e pubblicato in questo periodo. 
La maggior parte di queste donne si € cimentata con la poesia petrarchesca, in 
parte perché le forme “‘antologia” e “tempio” (raccolta celebrativa in onore di una 
persona viva Oo morta) erano venute di moda, e quindi era relativamente piu facile 
avere sonetti pubblicati, e in parte perché si é sempre pensato che |’amore fosse 
un soggetto di cui le donne potessero saperne a sufficienza. Ma scrivere di 
sentimenti ed affetti, come é stato gia osservato, non era cosa da poco per 
letterate: il topos semplicemente non era traducibile quando le posizioni di 
soggetto e oggetto venivano a essere scambiate.!> Parlare d’amore a una persona 
libidinalmente indifferente alle pene di chi scrive e, come risultato, appunto 
dando particolari della necessaria crudelta dell’essere amato, narcisisticamente 
autocrearsi come artista — la traiettoria tipica dei sonetti di Petrarca — non 
funziona quando il genere dei due interlocutori cambia. Una donna poteva solo 
perdere la sua reputazione nel dichiararsi pubblicamente a un uomo dentro e fuori 
il testo poetico; il “no” implicito del rispondente era, in ogni caso, culturalmente 
improponibile. La mia ipotesi é che la poesia cavalleresca, proprio per la sua 
forma piu narrativa e estesa, offrisse invece alle donne un/’alternativa interessante: 
la possibilita di scrivere d’amore senza sentirsi identificate con i travagli amorosi 
delle varie creazioni femminili, di legittimare, per cosi dire, un io “altro” senza 
avere la propria sessualita inopportunamente chiamata in causa. 

La seconda ragione é che era quasi impossibile non desiderare di partecipare a 


soltanto negli ultimi anni che la scrittura delle donne nel campo della trattatistica, per esempio, é@ 
diventata soggetto di studio, come si pud vedere chiaramente nelle prossime pagine dalla 
bibliografia che accompagna II merito delle donne; la scoperta di commedie e farse conventuali, 
inoltre, un genere che Elissa Weaver sta lentamente riportando alla luce, ha rivelato una scrittura 
teatrale femminile di cui fino a poco tempo fa non si sapeva niente. Si veda la sua recente edizione 
di Beatrice del Sera, Amor di virtu, Ravenna, Longo, 1990. Cosi nel campo della letteratura 
cavalleresca c’é molto da fare e recuperare i nomi é solo il primo passo. 

Si veda, per esempio, Ann Rosalind Jones, The Currency of Eros. Women’s Love Lyric in 
Europe,1540-1620, Bloomington, Indiana UP, 1990; e Luciana Borsetto, “Narciso ed Eco. Figura e 
scrittura nella lirica femminile del Cinquecento: esemplificazioni ed appunti”, in Nel cerchio della 
luna, op. cit., pp. 171-233. Per il successo del formato antologico, rimando a Amedeo Quondam, 
Petrarchismo mediato, Roma, Bulzoni, 1974. 


208 Valeria Finucci 


questo filone di produzione perché la poesia cavalleresca non era soltanto 
popolare, continuamente ristampata, serializzata, emendata, contraffatta e 
rielaborata, ma anche pubblicabile a poco costo. Alcuni editori, come Zoppino e 
Tramezzino a Venezia, sfornavano “romanze” a tutto spiano; il formato di questi 
libri era minuscolo, di solito stampato non in quarto ma in sedicesimo; e la 
tecnica tipografica prevedeva che fossero in doppia colonna, quindi, in ultima 
analisi, con poco spreco di pagine. Secondo Marina Beer c’erano non meno di 
500.000 copie di romanzi cavallereschi (esclusi 1 capolavori!) in circolazione in 
Italia tra il 1470 e il 1600, con circa 600 titoli pubblicati da 21 case editrici.!® II 
Furioso, per esempio, aveva venduto pili di 25.000 copie, attestandosi a livelli 
pit alti del Vangelo. In Spagna il re Filippo II aveva emesso un decreto reale nel 
1543 che proibiva di esportare “‘romanze” nel nuovo mondo: c’era gia abbastanza 
febbre in quello vecchio.!’ La popolarita di questi testi si estendeva a tutti i 
livelli sociali, corti incluse; essi erano letti da nobili, borghesi, soldati, 
popolani, e perfino illetterati che li sentivano recitati nelle piazze e nelle osterie 
oO musicalmente modulati “su la ribeca o su ’] gravicembalo”, come c’informa 
Gioseppe Malatesta (147).!§ Donne di tutte le condizioni li conoscevano (“‘m 
diciam pure delle inculte villanelle & delle rozze pastorelle” dai “rustici accenti”, 
138) e spesso li usavano in conversazioni e giochi di corte e di societa.!? I 
volumi erano tanto manipolati che molti esemplari non ci sono pervenuti perché 
letteralmente ridotti a pezzi. Malatesta scrive umoristicamente della sua 
meraviglia a vedersi presentato il conto una sera per una sua lettura fortuita del 
Furioso nella locanda in cui si era fermato aspettando che spiovesse. In tali 
condizioni, chi non sarebbe stato interessato a scrivere romanzi cavallereschi, 
qualunque fosse il bagaglio ideologico che essi si portavano dietro nel quadro 
narrativo? 

La mia terza ipotesi é che anche se il genere é tipicamente maschile nel 
senso che il protagonista principale é di necessita un eroe teleologicamente in 
movimento verso un destino dinastico e procreativo, non é detto che gli uomini 


16 B® con i romanzi cavallereschi che si puo cominciare a parlare di bestseller: 'Innamorato di 
Matteo Mania Boiardo fu stampato in 228 copie nell’edizione del 1484, ma gia in 1250 in quella del 
1495; la prima edizione del Furioso, a testimoniare l’impatto del genere sul pubblico, venne fatta 
direttamente uscire in circa 2000 esemplari (tra i 1200 e i 3000). Si veda Beer, p. 228. Sulla 
fortuna del Furioso rimando anche a Fumagalli. Naturalmente la popolarita e la facilita di stampa 
dei romanzi cavallereschi aveva anche il suo lato negativo: molti di questi testi abbondano di errori 
tipografici. Sui vari tipi di libri popolari nel Rinascimento, si veda Paul Grendler, “Form and 
 comapiag in Italian Renaissance Popular Books”, Renaissance Quarterly 46.3 (1993), 451-85. 

7 Si veda Piero Di Nepi, “Dal ‘romanzo’ al poema eroico. II”, // Veltro 22 (1978), 95-99. 

Gioseppe Malatesta, Dialogo della nuova poesia, overo le difese del “Furioso”, Verona, 
Sebastiano delle Donne, 1589. 

Racconta Ugurgieri Azzolini: “Porzia Pecci nobil senese fu d’ingegno elevatissimo, e si dilettd 
di belle lettere, ed essendo al suo tempo usciti fuori i libri di Amadis di Gaula, ella se ne fece 
pratichissima, si che occorrendogli alcuna occasione di veglie e di giuochi di spirito, molto se ne 
prevaleva” (Le pompe sanesi, Il, p. 395, citato in Masetti Zannini, p. 105). 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 209 


meglio delle donne possano descrivere azioni eroiche. Nei suoi Discorsi dell’ arte 
poetica e del poema eroico, Tasso aveva enumerato quelli che erano secondo lui 
gli argomenti tipici dell’ epica: 


quasi in un picciolo mondo, qui si leggano ordinanze d’esserciti, qui battaglie 
terrestre e navali, qui espugnazioni di citta, scaramucce e duelli, qui giostre, qui 
descrizioni di fame e di sete, qui tempeste, qui incendi, qui prodigii; 1a si trovino 
concilii celesti ed infernali, 14 si veggiano sedizioni, 1a discordie, 1a errori, la 
venture, 1a incanti, 14 opere di crudelta, di audacia, di cortesia, di generosita; 1a 
avvenimenti d’amore, or felici or infelici, or lieti or compassionevoli. 7° 


Adesso si é piti volte notato che le descrizioni di duelli in Tasso sono realistiche, 
frutto non tanto di un’esperienza personale che, in ogni caso, non era aperta alle 
donne, quanto, sorprendentemente, di una libresca.?! Per motivi noti, é anche 
possibile che Tasso possa avere avuto esperienza parapersonale di “concilii 
celesti e infernali”, ma che avesse partecipato a battaglie per terra e per mare, e€ 
che percid potesse descrivere queste cose meglio delle donne, é da escludere. 

Se Tasso aveva potuto supplire alle sue conoscenze con libri sul soggetto, 
era evidente che anche le donne avrebbero potuto farsi autodidatte e educarsi sulle 
leggi dell’onore e della tenzone. Manuali su duelli e scienza cavalleresca erano 
specialmente di moda nel periodo tra il 1550 e il 1570, per esempio, specchio 
della marcia avanti del processo di rifeudalizzazione in Italia. Francesco Erspamer 
conta addirittura 65 titoli sul soggetto contro i 9 del ventennio precedente 
stampati a Venezia; alcuni di questi si rivelano i “bestseller del secolo” (61), 
come il Duello di Girolamo Muzio, tradotto presto in spagnolo.?? Anche per la 
letteratura classica la possibilita di assimilazione culturale per un gruppo, quale 
quello femminile, tradizionalmente educato poco e male, era proporzionalmente 
aumentata con l’esplosione della moda del classico tradotto o volgarizzato: 
innumerevoli testi latini e greci prima introvabili vennero di punto in bianco alla 
portata della borghesia, e quindi delle donne.” 


20 Uso l’edizione di L. Poma, Bari, Laterza, 1964, p. 36. Su questo punto si veda Ezio Raimondi, 
“Dalla natura alla regola”, in Rinascimento inquieto, Palermo, Manfredi, 1965, pp. 20-21; e Guido 
Baldassarri, “Introduzione ai Discorsi dell’arte poetica del Tasso,” in Studi Tassiani 26 (1977), 5— 
38. 

21 Si veda Francesco Erspamer, “‘Degne d’un chiaro sol’: Tasso e il duello”, in La biblioteca di 
Don Ferrante. Duello e onore nella cultura del Cinquecento, Roma, Bulzoni, 1982, pp. 181-200. 
Anche se duellare era raro per il sesso femminile, non era pero inaudito. Sabba Castiglione 
riferisce il suo caso: “conobbi una gran gentildonna in Lombardia la quale di spada e brocchiero 
giuocava si bene, che buono era lo schermitore che ella non abbattesse.” In Ricordi o vero 
ammaestramenti, Venezia, 1562, c.112B. 

2 Questi libri erano stampati in modo particolare dall’editore Gabriele Giolito. Rimando anche a 
Carlo Dionisotti, “La letteratura italiana nell’eta del Concilio di Trento,” in Geografia e storia della 
letteratura italiana, Torino, Einaudi, 1967, pp. 203-04. 

Per uno studio del mercato editoriale veneziano nel Cinquecento con particolare riguardo alla 
fioritura di mode, rimando a Amedeo Quondam, “‘Mercanzia d’onore’, ‘Mercanzia d’utile’. 


210 Valeria Finucci 


Che tipo di romanzo epico—cavalleresco hanno scritto dunque le donne? 
C’erano ragioni specifiche per cimentarsi con la narrativa all’ Ariosto o quella alla 
Tasso? Dal catalogo delle pagine precedenti é evidente che le donne si sono 
misurate con i tipi piu vari di letteratura “eroica”, ma é mia convinzione che 
V’entrelacement all’ Ariosto dava alle scrittrici pit liberta del plot alla Tasso nella 
creazione di avventure e situazioni. Lucrezia Marinelli nell’Enrico ci da, per 
esempio, una figura maschile in un certo senso omologabile a quella di Goffredo 
nella Gerusalemme liberata. Ma Goffredo, é stato pit volte notato, é noioso 
come creazione artistica appunto perché giusto in tutte le situazioni; non per 
niente l’eroe che rimane pit presente nella mente dei lettori non é quello con pit 
pietas ma quello con pit pecche (Tancredi o il primo Rinaldo). Lo stesso vale 
per la Marinelli: l’Enrico si rivela ben costruito, i versi risultano ben torniti, le 
azioni pit che verosimili secondo lo schema preferito dai neoaristotelici, ma il 
testo manca di quell’irriverenza, di quella “maraviglia” che cosi spesso 
funzionava da catalista per i lettori dell’Ariosto. In altre parole, se l’ingresso 
nella polemica sul “romanzo” che tanto infiamm6 i circoli critici italiani nella 
seconda meta del Cinquecento aveva il potere di legittimare un autore 
collocandolo da una parte o dall’altra del dibattito, per le donne, come la 
Marinelli dimostra, la strategia era a doppio taglio: entrare nel dialogo voleva 
dire schierarsi in una posizione precisa e adattarsi ad essa, tenendo conto in ogni 
caso che la mise en scéne estetica era invariabilmente codificata secondo le 
esigenze di un io maschile. 

Quanto a figure femminili, la scrittura alla Tasso lasciava, secondo me, 
meno spazio ideologicamente alla creazione di donne al positivo di quella 
all’Ariosto. Se Clorinda, la donna guerriera e radicalmente “altra”, doveva 
necessariamente morire perché irrecuperabile a priori, se Armida, la donna 
ammaliatrice, poteva essere circoscritta nel suo potere e reiscritta alla fine come 
sottomessa, e se Erminia doveva essere fatta masochisticamente rimanere 
innamorata di Tancredi perché non c’era altra via di sbocco narrativo positivo per 
la classica donzelia “innamorata”, allora era meglio la varietas dell’ Ariosto per 
evitare di costruire un cimitero di esemplari o trasgressive eroine in cui a mala 
pena le scrittrici avrebbero potuto riflettersi. 

In ogni caso, sia per una narrativa in nome dell’ Ariosto che in quella in 
nome del Tasso, era impossibile per un’autrice riscrivere da un punto di vista 
soggettivo maschile, mascherandosi cioé da uomo, come se la questione del suo 
“genere” fosse senza conseguenze. Inventarsi programmaticamente una posizione 
femminile era al tempo stesso complicato sia perché la codificazione a cui era 
presto arrivato il romanzo cavalleresco lasciava poco spazio all’inventiva 





Produzione libraria e lavoro intellettuale a Venezia nel Cinquecento”, in Libri, editori e pubblico 
nell’ Europa moderna. Guida storica e critica, a c. di Armando Petrucci, Bari, Laterza, 1977, pp. 
53-104; e ibid., “Nel giardino del Marcolini. Un editore veneziano tra Aretino e Doni”, Giornale 
storico della letteratura italiana 157 (1980), 75-116. 





La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 2A 


personale, sia perché non c’erano esempi sufficientemente autoritativi che 
legittimassero una dialettica e un immaginario femminile. In un ambiente come 
quello del Rinascimento in cui l’imitatio era di moda, come inventare tutta 
un’iconografia e una scrittura “altra”? Ariosto aveva imitato con I’ironia che 
contraddistingue la sua opera, ma per le scrittrici ironizzare sul “sorriso” di un 
tale autorevole precursore comportava una carica eversiva non facile da mettere in 
atto.24 

Se poi, nell’atto di autolegittimarsi come bardo autorevole della casa 
regnante, |’autore veniva necessariamente a misurarsi con i suoi predecessori, e 
se questo confronto da una parte, e quasi inevitabilmente, portava a una inibente, 
bloomiana angoscia dell’influenza, é anche vero che dall’altra conferiva allo 
scrittore un senso di appartenenza e legittimita. Ma questa possibilita di 
ritrovarsi non era aperta alle donne, visto che non c’erano state altre scrittrici che 
si erano misurate con la tradizione. Si potrebbe arguire, al contrario, che una 
madre storicamente concreta in cui queste figlie letterarie avessero potuto 
riconoscersi pill che paure edipiche avrebbe, secondo me, non solo conferito uno 
stato, ma anche meglio autorizzato e canalizzato il loro sforzo creativo.> 


* * * 


x 


Il testo di Tredici canti del Floridoro di Moderata Fonte é visibilmente 
incompiuto.26 Non siamo in possesso di nessuna spiegazione sui motivi che 


24 Sull’importanza mimetica e retorica della imitatio e aemulatio nel periodo, si veda Ferruccio 
Ulivi, L’ imitazione nella poetica del Rinascimento, Milano, Marzorati, 1959. 

Su questa ansieta si veda Harold Bloom, L’angoscia dell’ influenza, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1973, 
trad. di The Anxiety of Influence, Oxford, Oxford UP, 1973. Si sa che Ariosto non nominera mai 
Boiardo. Sulla rivalita edipica tra Tasso e i suoi padri letterari, soprattutto Ariosto, rimando a 
Margaret Ferguson, “Torquato Tasso: The Trial of Conscience”, in Trials of Desire. Renaissance 
Defenses of Poetry, New Haven, Yale UP, 1983, pp. 54-136. Per l’impossibilita di dichiarare la 
morte dell’autore per le donne prima ancora di essersi trovate delle madri letterarie, si veda 
Nancy Milier, “Arachnologies: The Woman, the Text, and the Critic”, in The Poetics of Gender, a 
c. di Nancy Miller, New York, Columbia UP, 1986, pp. 270-95. 

Il titolo é nuovo, ma c’é il precedente del Floridante di Bemardo Tasso, lasciato incompiuto e 
che poi Torquato rimaneggera e fara uscire nel 1587. Qui Floridoro é uno dei dieci baroni che 
cercano Floridante d’accordo con il padre di lui. Floridante ha anche molto in comune con 
l’Amadigi (1560) di cui la Fonte avrebbe potuto essere a conoscenza. Un’eco dell’Amadigi é forse 
possibile trovarlo nel giardino di Circetta in cui non solo c’é, come sarebbe da aspettarci, un chiaro 
rinvio a quello di Alcina nel Furioso, ma anche a quello di Nivetta (83, 54-57) di Bernardo Tasso. 
Per uno studio su Floridante si veda Antonio Daniele, “Ipotesi sul Floridante” nel suo Capitoli 
Tassiani, Padova, Antenore, 1983, pp. 203-41. Similarita ci sono anche tra Floridoro e il Sacripante 
di Lodovico Dolce (1535-36). In ambedue i testi c’ una maga chiamata Circe che ha una voce 
bellissima e un palazzo costruito magicamente. Dolce da la descrizione di un ragazzo biondo di 
sedici anni, Selannio, che ricorda quella di Floridoro, e un giardino guardato da un serpente, che 
ricorda il terzo canto del Floridoro. Si veda Ronnie Terpening, “Lodovico Dolce and the Chivalric 
Romance”, in Studies in the Italian Renaissance. Essays in Memory of Arnolfo Ferruolo, ac. di 
Gian Paolo Biasin, Albert Mancini & Nicholas Perella, Napoli, Societa Editrice Napoletana, 1985, 


212 Valeria Finucci 


hanno portato all’interruzione contestualmente inspiegabile e alla pubblicazione 
anticipata del manoscritto, ma vorrei fare due ipotesi sulla sua incompletezza: 
che la Fonte, avendo divagato troppo, non sapesse come concludere in maniera 
soddisfacente, e che infatti non avesse mai avuto in mente una vera conclusione, 
a la mode di Boiardo, o che, ipotesi altrettanto probabile, lei non potesse 
concludere per un avvenimento molto pi mondano e meno intellettuale: proprio 
quell’anno si era sposata.?’ Che infatti la Fonte avesse perfino potuto dedicarsi 
alla letteratura perché non era ancora sposata (contrasse nozze a 26 anni, 
piuttosto tardi per le donne del suo periodo) non é soltanto un’ipotesi, se si 
pensa che da ora in poi pubblichera solo un’opera sacra, La Resurrettione,”® 
occupata come é a fare figli, e che il testo del suo trattato /] merito delle donne, 
su cui la critica si sta finalmente soffermando, uscira solo parecchi anni dopo la 
sua morte.?? 


. 167-77. 

2 Notizie sulla vita della Fonte (Venezia, 1555-1592) vengono da La Vita della Signora Modesta 
Pozzo dei Zorzi, nominata Moderata Fonte, scritto nel 1593, un anno dopo la morte, dallo zio 
Giovanni Nicol Doglioni e pubblicato nella sezione prefatoria di // merito delle donne. Sappiamo 
dallo zio che la Fonte veniva da una famiglia benestante veneziana e che era rimasta presto 
orfana con un fratello di poco maggiore di lei. La sua educazione era limitata, come tipicamente 
era quella delle adolescenti nei conventi. Aveva pero appreso da autodidatta le lezioni assegnate 
al fratello Lunardo, facendone pit profitto di lui, secondo lo zio. Wenuta a abitare a casa del 
Doglioni quando lui aveva contratto matrimonio con una parente di lei, la Fonte improvvisamente 
trovo sfocio al suo desiderio di conoscenza e alle sue ambizioni letterarie. Doglioni stesso, notaio 
di professione, storico per passione, e appartenente agli Accademici Incogniti, si preoccupo della 
pubblicazione delle opere della nipote. La Fonte si sposd con Filippo de’ Zorzi, “avocato fiscal 
nell’ufficio Iustriss. dell’acque”, come Doglioni scrive, e probabilmente interessato, sebbene 
marginalmente, alla letteratura. Esiste infatti un suo sonetto pubblicato in prefazione all’opera 
della moglie, La Resurrettione. La Fonte ebbe quattro figli e mori dando la nascita all’ultima figlia. 
E sepolta ai Frari, a Venezia. Data la sua posizione sociale e il tipo di vita ritirato che aveva 
condotto, la sua reputazione, diversamente da quella di altre poetesse del Cinquecento, é, una volta 
tanto, inoppugnabile. Gia nel Settecento F. S. Quadrio, lodando la sua verve creativa, aveva messo 
in chiaro che essa era una “savia madre di famiglia” (F. S. Quadrio, Della storia e della ragione 
a’ ogni poesia, Milano, Francesco Agnelli, 1741, vol. II, p. 274). In questi ultimi anni Emilio Zanette 
ha sentito il dovere di ripetere l’elogio: “fu una moglie e una mamma esemplare, come era stata 
una esemplare signorina” (“Bianca Capello e la sua poetessa”, Nuova Antologia 88 [1953], 455— 
68, p. 454). Non si sa quanto ]’appellativo di moglie esemplare possa aver potuto far piacere alla 
Fonte in quanto non abbiamo particolarita sul suo matrimonio. In ogni caso, nel suo trattato /] 
Merito, la posizione di moglie appare tra le pil’ gravose da sopportare per le donne. Per ulteriori 
notizie sulla vita della Fonte e ulteriore bibliografia (limitata spesso, come ci aspetteremmo, alla 
menzione del nome), rimando allo studio comprensivo di Adriana Chemello, “Gioco e 
dissimulazione in Moderata Fonte” in Moderata Fonte, // merito delle donne, ac. di Adriana 
Chemello, Venezia, Eidos, 1988, IX—-LXIII, note 6 e 7, pp. LIX-LX. 

8 11 titolo completo é La Resurrettione di Giesu Christo Nostro Signore, Venezia, Appresso Gio. 
Domenico Imberti, 1592. Consiste di 142 ottave ed & dedicato a una donna, Margarita Langosca 
Parpaglia, Contessa della Bastia. 

I] titolo completo @ // Merito delle Donne. .. . In due giornate. Ove chiaramente si scuopre 
quanto siano elle degne e piu perfette de gli uomini. E in due libri. L’edizione critica, curata da 








La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 213 


Il Floridoro @ scritto in ottava rima, il metro tipico dei romanzi 
cavallereschi, e un metro che la Fonte sperimentava contemporaneamente in una 
composizione sacra, La Passione di Cristo.*° L’azione si svolge in un tempo 
precristiano imprecisato, con motivi magici, alla moda di Ariosto, ma non 
infernali, alla moda di Tasso, e in una quanto mai vaga localita geografica 
mediterranea, in cui pero sono fatti riferimenti precisi a Delfo e Atene in Grecia e 
ad Alessandria in Egitto. Come nella maggior parte dei “libri di battaglia”, @ 
facile riconoscere nel Floridoro un codice retorico ben assimilato, dalla sortita 
notturna dai risultati dubbi al catalogo di due differenti armate, dal banchetto 
finale all’eroe che piange, dalla nave che naufraga alle digressioni per introdurre 
storie d’amore e conflitti sentimentali.*! 

L’apparato strutturale, come |’ autrice mette in chiaro nella seconda ottava, 
mima lo schema tipico delle imprese cavalleresche e sentimentali all’ Ariosto: 
“Canta l’inclite imprese e i dolci affetti / De’ cavallieri e delle donne illustri’” (I, 
2), dove le donne perO sono sorprendentemente in posizione di soggetto tanto per 
le imprese eroiche quanto per quelle amorose.*? In pit’ sono le donne 


Adriana Chemello, e da cui citerd, é uscita nel 1988. Sul Merito si veda Adriana Chemello, “La 
donna, il modello, l’immaginario: Moderata Fonte e Lucrezia Marinella”, in Nel cerchio della luna, 
op. cit., pp. 95-160, e “Moderata Fonte” in Le stanze ritrovate. Antologia di scrittrici venete dal 
Quattrocento al Novecento, ac. di Antonia Arslan, Adriana Chemello e Gilberto Pizzamiglio, 
Venezia, Eidos, 1991, pp. 70-82; A. Jaquinta, “Tentativi di autocoscienza in un gruppo del 
Cinquecento”, in La presenza dell’ uomo nel femminismo, ac. di M. Lonzie A. Jaquinta, Milano, 
Scritti di rivolta femminile, 1978, pp. 45-78; Ginevra Conti—Odorisio, Donna e societa nel Seicento, 
Roma, Bulzoni, 1979, che per motivi di simmetria con la Marinelli e la Arcangela Tarabotti include 
la Fonte sorprendentemente in un libro sul Seicento; Beatrice Collina, ““Moderata Fonte e // merito 
delle donne”, Annali d’Italianistica 7 (1989), 142-64; Paola Malpezzi—Price, “A Woman’s 
Discourse in the Italian Renaissance: Moderata Fonte’s /[/ merito delle donne”, Annali 
a'Italianistica 7 (1989), 165-81; Constance Jordan, Renaissance Feminism. Literary Texts and 
Political Models, Ithaca, Comell UP, 1990, pp. 253-57; e Margaret King, Le donne nel 
Rinascimento, Roma-—Bari, Laterza, 1991. 

La Passione di Cristo (Venezia, presso Domenico e Gio. Battista Guerra fratelli, 1582) é 
dedicata al Serenissimo Niccold da Ponte, principe di Venezia, una figura che diventera 
importante nella parte encomiastica del Floridoro. Contemporanea é anche la scrittura di una 
breve cantata (otto carte) intitolata Le Feste e rappresentata davanti allo stesso Niccolé da Ponte, il 
26 dicembre 1581. E un’ulteriore testimonianza del fervore creativo di quegli anni cui fara da 
contrappeso il totale silenzio del decennio successivo. 

Su questi motivi, si veda, per esempio, Guido Baldassam, /! sogno di Zeus, Roma, Bulzoni, 1982. 
Sul romanzo tra Ariosto e Tasso, si veda Roberto Bruscagli, “‘Romanzo’ ed ‘epos’ dall’Ariosto al 
Tasso”, in AA.VV., Il romanzo. Origine e sviluppo delle strutture narrative nella letteratura 
occidentale. Pisa, 1987. Sui temi del romanzo eroico cavalleresco del primo seicento, si veda 
Albert Mancini, Romanzi e romanzieri del Seicento, Napoli, Societa Editrice Napoletana, 1981, pp. 
103-38. 

32 Cito dal’ editio princeps stampata a Venezia dal Rampazetti nel 1581. La copia consultata é 
adesso nella Rare Books Library della Duke University e contiene correzioni a mano. Manca perd 
del frontespizio, del sonetto dedicatorio di Nicold Doglioni, e dell’“Argomento” del primo canto. 
Contemporaneamente ho consultato il microfilm della Yale University Library. La numerazione 
delle ottave e l’ammodemamento del testo sono stati fatti da me. Per ulteriori precisazioni rimando 


214 Valeria Finucci 


consistentemente a determinare il movimento epico cavalleresco. Se in Ariosto 
un numero considerevole di cavalieri erranti rispondeva a motivi personali e 
narcisistici, quali il recupero di armature, elmi, spade e cavalli (desiderio erotico, 
il loro, metonimicamente spostato su oggetti conquistabili e maschili) e se in 
Tasso l’appello all’avventura era molto pit politico e ideologico (“Canto l’arme 
pietose e ’] capitano / che ’! gran sepolcro libero di Cristo” I, 1), per Fonte é 
sempre un richiamo altro, femminile, che motiva i cavalieri alla aventure. 

Il Floridoro rappresenta “‘l’epopea del femminismo”, scrive Emilio Zanette, 
ma il testo in sé é “opera sciatta e scialba” (465), con l’unica parte interessante, 
il critico suggerisce quanto pil prevedibilmente, costituita dalla descrizione di 
una battaglia navale, quella di Lepanto. Autocreatosi castigatore di donne dalle 
presunzioni letterarie, Zanette non manca di attaccare la Fonte per la “mancanza 
assoluta di femminilita” e le rimprovera perfino il fatto di aver dedicato il suo 
lavoro a una donna non troppo morale e al di sopra di ogni sospetto, quale 
Bianca Capello, nobile veneziana. L’obiezione mi é nuova: sin da quando, 
infatti, la moralita dei protettori diventa soggetto di interesse da parte dei 
critici?*3 Il Floridoro & dedicato ai granduchi di Toscana Francesco de’ Medici e 
Bianca Capello, ma é effettivamente la granduchessa Bianca, famosa anche come 
protettrice di letterati, incluso Tasso, a essere pili volte celebrata. Dedicare un 
romanzo epico a una donna non era al tempi inaudito, ma quanto meno raro, e 
politicamente in ogni caso poco fruttuoso, ma le poetesse lo hanno fatto: non 
solo la Fonte, ma anche la Sarocchi, per esempio, ha scelto una donna. Lo 
stesso vale per il trattato della Fonte, // merito, dedicato, anni dopo, a Livia 
Feltria della Rovere, duchessa di Urbino.*4 L’autrice mette l’accento sulle qualita 
intellettuali della Capello e fa coincidere la fine del suo excursus storico 
encomiastico su Venezia con l’anno 1579, l’anno appunto in cui la Capello 


alla “Nota al testo” che precede l’edizione critica di Tredici canti del Floridoro da me curata e in 
corso di stampa presso la Mucchi di Modena. 

Zanette accusa la Fonte di un errore imperdonabile: si dimentica di soffermarsi sulla bellezza 
della sua protettrice. Cosi la Capello, sempre secondo il critico, si arrabbid e decise di non 
remunerare pil la sua sbadata ammiratrice. Errore che egli stesso si vedra bene dal commettere 
riguardo alla Fonte. I] problema é, si lamenta, che purtroppo questa bellezza in lei non esisteva: 
“non era bella” (456). Sulla Capello si veda anche Maria Luisa Mariotti Masi, Bianca Capello. 
Una veneziana alla corte dei Medici, Milano, Mursia, 1986; e Roberto Cantagalli, “Bianca Capello 
e una leggenda da sfatare: la questione del figlio supposto”, in Nuova rivista storica 49 (1965), 
636-52. Del Floridoro si occupa brevemente anche la Fumagalli che ne nota 1’imitazione 
ariostesca e il verso “modesto senza pretese” (176). 

La Scarderbeide della Sarocchi é dedicato a donna Costanza Colonna Sforza, marchesa di 
Caravaggio. Il testo della Terracina é offerto a persone diverse, a seconda dell’edizione. Quella 
che io ho consultato, del Bulifon di Napoli (1698), ha una dedica a Girolama Loffredo, rincipessa 
di S. Severo. I] libro della d’Aragona é offerto invece a un nobile mantovano, Giulio della Valle; 
quello della Marinelli al principe Francesco Erizzo. In quanto a // Merito, il testo ha la dedica di 
Cicilia di Zorzi, figlia della Fonte, alla duchessa di Urbino, sua patrona. Nel caso dei trattati c’era, 
in Ogni caso, una tradizione di dedica a donne. Per esempio, Tasso aveva offerto il suo Discorso 
della virtu femminile e donnesca (1582) alla duchessa di Mantova. 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 205 


diventava granduchessa. In una simile occasione encomiastica nel Furioso 
Ariosto aveva creato un affresco che illustrava azioni future degli Este culminanti 
con la celebrazione del duca Alfonso al cui servizio appunto lui lavorava. II 
dipinto era descritto dal proprietario della Rocca di Tristano a due donne, 
Bradamante e Ullania, che rimanevano letteralmente a bocca aperta dalla 
meraviglia (canto XXXIII). Qui il sesso delle persone e dei dedicatari é 
radicalmente cambiato: non solo é una donna a articolare la storiografia e la 
grammatica del potere a due uomini, ma gli avvenimenti che porteranno alla 
creazione di un nuovo impero sine fine culminano con la celebrazione di un’altra 
donna, Bianca Capello appunto, “onor del suo sesso e del suo tempo” (XII, 7), 
per cui, infatti, 11 capolavoro scultoreo é fatto. 

E evidente inoltre anche a un primo sguardo che il Floridoro non registra a 
nessun livello il tenore delle scaramucce che si venivano combattendo proprio in 
quegli anni nel campo critico tra i fautori del romanzo ariostesco a struttura 
aperta e addizioni esemplari e i proponenti, in nome di una discussa riscoperta 
della Poetica aristotelica, di un ritorno all’epica classica di Omero e Virgilio 
dall’andamento serrato e dal tono eroico.** II Floridoro, in altre parole, é un testo 
che usa con una certa originalita tutte le innovazioni ariostesche, dalle agnizioni 
per risolvere situazioni critiche alle interruzioni improvvise, dai proemi con toni 
riflessivi alle scelte encomiastiche, appunto perché questi elementi piacevano al 
pubblico di allora. In ogni caso pero Fonte si mantiene al di fuori delle posizioni 
critiche accademiche. 

E il titolo stesso a introdurre il protagonista maschile. Floridoro é un 
adolescente con poca esperienza e grosse ambizioni che va a cimentarsi in tornei 
indetti dal re di Grecia, Cleardo, una replica del Carlo Magno ariostesco, non 
impegnato pero in una guerra di religione ma ad arbitrare giostre dai fini 
amoroso/cortesi. Il premio per il vincitore non €, come ci aspetteremmo dalla 
tradizione, la figlia del re, Celsidea, una nuova Elena dalle bellezze rinomate e 
dalle virtt documentabili, in onore della quale le giostre vengono appunto 
indette, ma semplicemente una corona incastonata che lei porra in persona sulla 
testa del fortunato (XII, 5). Floridoro vince, ma non puo dichiarare il suo amore 
e ricevere il premio stabilito perché ha combattuto, data la sua giovane eta, sotto 
false insegne e senza l’assenso paterno. 

Il problema strutturale che salta ben presto agli occhi é che Floridoro viene 
introdotto per la prima volta, e sorprendentemente, solo al quinto canto, e presto 
di nuovo lasciato. In pil, se il suo valore militare é provato in maniera 
indiscussa, non altrettanto si pud dire sulla sua maturita psicologica: il suo 


35 su questa controversia critica si veda, per esempio, Berard Weinberg, “The Quarrel over 
Ariosto and Tasso,” in A History of Literary Criticism in the Italian Renaissance, Chicago, U of 
Chicago P, 1961, vol. Il, pp. 954-1073; e il recente libro di Javitch, op. cit. Sul tempo epico, 
rimando ai saggi in Quasi un picciolo mondo. Tentativi di codificazione del genere epico nel 
Cinquecento, ac. di Guido Baldassarri, Milano, Unicopli, 1982. 


216 Valeria Finucci 


. 


comportamento di fronte sia all’amore sia all’amicizia é@ tutt’al piu 
adolescenziale, le sue pene e la sua malinconia suonano ridicole, e contrariamente 
a tutti i racconti del tipo che ho letto, la gratificazione erotica finale é data come 
impensabile. Naturalmente ci sono gia state nella letteratura cavalleresca figure 
eroiche efebiche e immature, e in questo senso Fonte non é unica: Ariosto, per 
esempio, ci ha offerto un Medoro biondo di cui si innamora per un momento 
perfino Zerbino e le cui abilita erotiche l’autore gli fara scrivere nella cava non 
tanto perché gli altri le leggano, credo (con buona pace di Orlando), ma in quanto 
perché lui stesso aveva problemi nel farlo registrare nella mente dei lettori; pit 
tardi Lodovico Dolce caratterizzera nel suo Sacripante un altro adolescente biondo 
femminilizzato ma anche lui dalle tendenze sorprendentemente eterosessuali, 
Selannio, disperatamente innamorato di Marphisa.*° Ma questo Floridoro di 
maschile ha solo il nome e dall’inizio é letteralmente raffigurato come una 
donna: 


L’aer del suo bel viso era si grato, 

Si vago lo splendor de’ bei crin d’oro, 

E la sembianza avea tanto divina 

Ch’ad amarlo ogni cor ben ch’aspro inchina. 


Venne col padre accorto il gentil figlio 
Con un vestir delizioso e vago, 

Amor ridea nel suo tranquillo ciglio, 
Anzi parea d’amor la propria imago. 
Lo splendido color bianco e vermiglio 
Ogni occhio fea di contemplarlo vago, 
Ogni sua parte, fuor che la favella, 

Par d’una giovenetta illustre e bella. 
(V, 45-46). 


Floridoro inoltre, esattamente come altre guerriere nel Furioso, veste 
completamente di bianco, dall’abito al mantello; bianco @ coreograficamente 
tutto quello che lo circonda, dalle piume sul cimiero al colore candido del suo 
cavallo (VII, 40), e Biancador é il falso nome che scegliera durante il torneo. 
Questa transcodificazione ¢ emblematica perché non si capisce bene che cosa il 
bianco voglia sottolineare in un uomo. Sappiamo che per le donne il bianco sta 
per il loro stato vergineo (‘a dimostrar la semplicité e purita nostra”, scrivera 
Fonte nel Merito, 164), come nel caso di Bradamante dell’ Ariosto, ma la stessa 
cosa non sembra sia stata importante per i cavalieri. 

Adesso sarebbe facile dire che il problema, con la drammatizzazione narrativa 


36 Sulla progressiva enfasi intorno al bello maschile adolescenziale che caratterizzera molto 
romanzo del Seicento, si veda Giovanni Getto, Barocco in prosa e in poesia, Milano, Rizzoli, 1969, 
p. 335. 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 217 


di Floridoro, viene dalla Fonte: scrittrice non ferrata, si direbbe in questa lettura, 
lei si dimostra inabile a caratterizzare un uomo in maniera credibile; al momento 
tragico é capace di sostituirne solo uno patetico e alla legge dell’onore quella pit 
struggente del melodramma. Ma siccome la Fonte non mostra la stessa 
idiosincrasia con le donne, preferirei pensare che c’é un motivo pit particolare 
per cui lei fallisce con Floridoro, e cioé che la rappresentazione dell’eroe 
cavalleresco tramandata a lei attraverso i secoli diventa problematica a mettere in 
atto quando é una scrittrice a doverla proporre. Cosi, invece di presentare 
Floridoro nei momenti di crisi con un io alienato (come il Tancredi della 
Gerusalemme) per esempio, o frantumato (come I’Orlando del Furioso), la Fonte 
sceglie di mostrarcelo con una soggettivita ancora non acquistata. Avrebbe un 
autore fatto diversamente? Certo é che era possibile per gli autori, in un periodo 
in cui la capacita umana (maschile) di ricrearsi come soggetto costituiva il perno 
di un numero sorprendente di discorsi umanistici, rappresentare un io eroico 
come alienato, cioé un io cosciente della propria unicita ma che per ragioni varie 
veniva a perdersi. Ma la mia ipotesi é che un’autrice avrebbe trovato difficile 
rinunciare a quello che non aveva ancora: l’accesso filosofico alla soggettivita; 
cosi nell’impianto mimetico del Floridoro non solo l’io del protagonista é, a dir 
poco immaturo, ma é appunto non-completo, non cosciente, peculiarmente 
femminile.*’ 

E inoltre pit che probabile, secondo me, che Fonte abbia introdotto 
Floridoro tardi non tanto perché si fosse sbagliata a fare 1 conti sulla lunghezza 
del suo lavoro, ma perché, pili semplicemente, voleva fare di Floridoro solo uno 
dei vari protagonisti della sua opera e lasciare la storia all’eroina femminile, 
Risamante, con le cui imprese appunto il Floridoro comincia e finisce. Poi ha, a 
un certo punto, dovuto cambiare idea, visto che c’erano si nella tradizione 
cavalleresca testi in cui le donne erano protagoniste, ma il loro protagonismo 
aveva poco di imitabile per una scrittrice intenzionata a creare un’immagine in 
cui poter riflettere, senza vergogna, la coscienza di una identita femminile.** E 


37 Sulla soggettivita, o mancanza di soggettivita, femminile nei discorsi filosofici del periodo, si 
veda Catherine Belsey, The Subject of Tragedy: Identity and Difference in Renaissance Drama, 
New York, Methuen, 1985, p. 149. Sulla donna come il necessario non-io usato come punto di 
partenza per discorsi maschili miranti a definire chi si era, non si era, 0 non si voleva apparire, in 
modo particolare nel Castiglione, si veda Valeria Finucci, The Lady Vanishes: Subjectivity and 
Representation in Castiglione and Ariosto, Stanford, Stanford UP, 1992. 

Per esempio, nelle sue varie reincarnazioni, Marfisa é presente in Marphisa bizarra di G. 
Battista Dragoncino (1531, 1532, 1545), Tre primi canti di battaglie di Pietro Aretino (1537, 1540, 
1544), Due primi canti di Marfisa innamorata di Marco Bandarini (1550) e Amor di Marfisa di 
Cataneo Danese (1562). Per Angelica, ci sono i testi di De le lagrime di Angelica di Pietro Aretino 
(1533, 1538, 1541, 1543, 1545, 1555), Amorosa vendetta di Marco Bandarini (1551) e Angelica 
innamorata di Marco Brusantini (1550, 1553). Per Bradamante, c’é Bradamante gelosa di Secondo 
Tarentino (1552). Per una lista pit completa, rimando a Beer, “Appendice II”. La 
caratterizzazione di Angelica era cosi peggiorata da Ariosto in poi che, scrive la Fumagalli, “ella 
é diventata il tema, o meglio il pretesto, per stuzzicare con descrizioni lascive la curiosita morbosa 


218 Valeria Finucci 


cosi ha scelto di sviluppare il nucleo dell’eroe maschile, con il suo corollario di 
Bildungsroman amoroso, da connettere lentamente alla storia della sua eroina. Si 
puo dedurre infatti dalla profezia sulla discendenza di Risamante che Floridoro 
sposera Celsidea da cui avra un figlio, appropriatamente chiamato Floricelso, che 
sposera col tempo la figlia di Risamante (III, 44-46). Sappiamo che Fonte non 
scriveva per il piacere di scrivere, ma che aveva un occhio anche ai destinatari del 
suo lavoro. Che senso aveva veicolare le sue energie su un modello innovativo 
che da una parte mancava di legittimazione nella tradizione e dall’altra scartava la 
possibilita di una identificazione con il padre della tradizione stessa, Ariosto? 

Cid non toglie che non uno, ma tutti gli uomini di questo testo, tranne 
forse Filardo, giovane dal grosso cuore fraterno ma dai motivi, ancora una volta, 
adolescenziali, siano cavalieri antieroici e maschi falliti, persone dalle ambizioni 
enormi ma dai risultati deludenti, che si disperano ma fanno poco, o che, come 
Risardo, decidono di imbarcarsi in grosse imprese, senza mai portarne a termine 
nessuna, arrivando sempre tardi all’appuntamento militare importante. Se, come 
afferma Francesco Erspamer, la cultura dell’onore (maschile) raggiunge il suo 
apice verso la meta del sedicesimo secolo con esplicite codificazioni 
comportamentali,*? e se, per fare un esempio piii letterario, era un esemplare 
senso dell’onore cristiano a motivare costantemente, con connessi sensi di colpa 
in caso di deviazioni sentimentali, i “compagni erranti” del Tasso, questa cultura 
sembra toccare molto poco la Fonte. 

Cosi c’é in Floridoro un giovanetto tredicenne dalle forme efebiche e dalla 
sessualita ambigua, contento di vivere con la madre in un mondo intrauterino 
fino all’arrivo di Risamante, guerriera dai risultati militari tangibili, che mettera 
fine alla sua non—vita in una caverna (III, 22—24); c’& Nicobaldo, che di baldo si 
trova ad avere ben poco, il quale aspetta che Risamante lo aiuti a liberare la sua 
Lucimena (VI, 3-84); e c’é il nano africano, re dei Pigmei, che invece di mettere 
in salvo la solare Raggidora, di cui é innamorato, se ne va fuori dal regno a 
chiedere aiuto solo per tornarsene indietro a mani vuote e con promesse vaghe 
(II, 58-97 e IV, 46-48). Questi cavalieri sono indubbiamente virtuosi, come la 
Fonte scrive parafrasando |’ Ariosto (“O gran virti de cavallier passati” III, 1), ma 
certamente poco maschili. 

La ribellione alla legge del padre che é insita nella maggior parte di questi 
testi letterari, inoltre, una volta fatta, non porta nel Floridoro alla reiscrizione 
dell’ordine dopo il passaggio traumatico dell’eroe dall’adolescenza alla maturita 
— la tipica narrativa edipica — ma al limbo: Floridoro, @ vero, se ne infischia 
del no del padre e del re, che lo considera un figlio, alla sua partecipazione al 
torneo e cosi asserisce la sua individualita, ma niente ci lascia pensare che abbia 
imparato una qualsiasi lezione salutare. La sua vittoria in campo, inoltre, non 





dei lettori volgari” (152); Marfisa, da parte sua, é cosi domesticata che “é diventata una 
Bradamante” (155). 
39 Ta biblioteca di Don Ferrante, op. cit., p. 46. 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 219 


porta a benefici militari, sentimentali e politici, come ci aspetteremmo dato il 
genere letterario, ed é presto cancellata nella mente dei lettori dall’infantilismo 
che contraddistinguera le sue azioni una volta che egli diventa preda della follia 
amorosa. In breve, la Fonte reagisce a un’ideologia sessuale che vuole posizioni 
maschili/femminili prestabilite con il cavaliere eroico da una parte e la donzella 
passiva da difendere dall’altra, e viene fuori con caratterizzazioni radicalmente 
diverse e in un certo senso problematiche. Ma se ai nostri occhi gli uomini 
appaiono femminei, forse non é tanto perché la scrittrice non sa fare di meglio, 
quanto perché non siamo abituati nel nostro immaginario culturale ad associare 
le donne con I’eroico e gli uomini con il patetico, le donne con un’economia di 
desiderio e gli uomini con il rimosso della cultura. 

Perfino il tema della sortita notturna che nell’epos viene adoperato per dare 
esempi lirici di eroismo maschile — ho in mente Eurialo e Niso nell’Eneide e 
Cloridano e Medoro nel Furioso — non funziona quando € una donna a 
rilegittimarlo: piuttosto che onore, il re Acreonte nel Floridoro cerca |’amore 
nell’uscita al chiaro di luna; travestito e irriconoscibile, va grossolanamente 
vantandosi delle sue prodezze sessuali e si preoccupa di come meglio poter 
arrivare al balcone della donna della cui bellezza si € appena innamorato e che, 
molto pili grossolanamente, intende rapire e violentare. Dall’avventura Fonte lo 
fa uscire come si merita: morto, ucciso per sbaglio, ironicamente, dal suo stesso 
fratello. 

Fonte in ogni caso non fallisce quando si cimenta con la tipologia 
femminile, di cui offre una varieta quanto mai interessante. Anche Celsidea, il 
cui unico scopo nel Floridoro sembra sia, data la sua apparenza esteriore, quello 
di essere oggetto di fantasie maschili e costante generatrice di desiderio, é 
descritta non solo come bella, ma come intelligente: siede vicino al padre nei 
consigli di stato (“Soleva il re per suo contento il giorno / Farsi seder questa 
fanciulla a lato” I, 9) e, cosa ancora pili interessante, ¢ erede designata del regno 
(“ch’erede esser dovea del greco impero” I, 14). Segno iconico di desiderio nella 
sua totale inaccessibilita, Celsidea funziona come catalista delle aspirazioni dei 
vari cavalieri alla gloria militare e come pretesto per combattimenti autorizzati e 
rituali. In questo senso, lei promuove quello che, riscrivendo il desiderio 
mimetico di René Girard per includere il genere delle persone coinvolte (per 
Girard il soggetto, tradizionalmente maschile, desidera l’oggetto, 
tradizionalmente femminile, a meno che non Si tratti letteralmente di una cosa, 
perché é il rivale a desiderarlo), Eve Sedgwick ha chiamato il desiderio 
omosociale (“homosocial desire”) e Luce Irigaray la “hommo- sexualité” (scritta 
anche “hom(m)osexualité”) maschile, cioé il tipo di relazioni, di solito non 
sessuale, che gli uomini stabiliscono tra loro sul corpo, letteralmente, dell’ altro 
sesso. Spronati dal desiderio per una donna passiva e assolutamente ammirata 
dagli altri, @ stato teorizzato, gli uomini lottano per stabilire narcisisticamente, 
senza pero essere troppo accusati di narcisismo (dopo tutto combattono per 
difendere un’altra persona), il loro valore intrinseco e estrinseco, e quindi la loro 


220 Valeria Finucci 


identita, in una comunita di uomini dal cui giudizio dipendono piu che mai e alla 
cui appartenenza mirano.” 

Ma perfino nell’atto di ricreare alla lettera le convenzioni cavalleresche, 
Fonte rovescia la tradizione: la giostra per Celsidea sara vinta non dai suoi 
ammiratori militarmente percepiti come pit forti (Acreonte, per esempio), ma da 
quelli meno esteriormente mascolini: l’adolescenziale Floridoro nel torneo 
ufficiale, e Risamante nel combattimento con Macandro che originera la 
decisione reale di indire il torneo stesso. Nessuno dei due tiene al tipo di 
riconoscimento e alla solidarieta degli altri uomini del gruppo: Floridoro deve 
farne a meno perché non pu togliersi l’elmo e Risamante ¢ impegnata in cause 
piu personali. 

Non é Celsidea, in ogni caso, ma sono le gemelle Risamante e Biondaura a 
costituire la spina dorsale del Floridoro. E la scelta é, che io sappia, insolita, 
perché anche se la letteratura del periodo era piena di gemelli, questi erano di 
solito maschi 0 di sesso misto (come, per esempio, Bradamante e Ricciardetto, e 
Marfisa e Ruggiero dell’ Ariosto). Ambedue bellissime, le sorelle si presentano ai 
poli opposti della femminilita (“una @ molle e delicata / E l’altra va come 
guerriero armata” II, 30) e si comportano in maniera antitetica: Risamante é la 
donna soggetto, Biondaura quella oggetto; la prima combatte, per la seconda si 
combatte; due facce, quindi, identiche e dicotome, come Fonte mettera in 
evidenza, della donna in cultura. 

Risamante, in consonanza con Bradamante nel Furioso il cui nome 
rispecchia, € una guerriera risoluta: “il cavallier parea gagliardo e franco / Alla 
presenza, e sopra ogn’altro ardito” (II, 5). Entra nel Floridoro armata di tutto 
punto, un giglio incastonato sullo scudo, e combatte, vincendolo, come 
Bradamante con Sacripante, un eroe borioso, Macandro. Quindi, nel terzo canto, 
in simmetria col terzo del Furioso, si ritrova in un antro in cui le viene 
presentata la propria futura genealogia. Contrariamente all’eroina ariostesca, 
pero, Risamante non é innamorata, e quindi ha ancora occasione di mostrare il 
suo lato militare. Se Bradamante, richiamata da un messaggero a Marsiglia fin 
dal secondo canto perché difenda da attacchi saraceni il suo possedimento pit 
importante, decide invece di andarsene alla ricerca del suo Ruggiero, e se presto 
viene in possesso di una lancia magica che rende le sue vittorie comiche invece 
che eroiche, Risamante combatte con armi vere per riconquistarsi un regno, 
|’ Armenia, verso cui tutte le sue energie sono canalizzate. 

Destinata a “opre alte e leggiadre” (II, 31), Risamante é stata allevata da un 
mago che, conscio del suo destino eroico, l’aveva rubata da piccola ai genitori e 
istruita nelle arti militari. Una volta cresciuta e sapute le sue origini, essa é tutta 


40 Si veda René Girard, La Violence et le sacré, Parigi, Grasset, 1972; Luce Irigaray, Ce Sexe qui 
n’en est pas un, Parigi, Editions de Minuit, 1977, p. 186; Eve Sedgwick, Between Men: English 
Literature and Male Homosocial Desire, New York, Columbia UP, 1985; e Sarah Kofman, 
L’Enigme de la Femme: La Femme dans les textes de Freud, Parigi, Galilée, 1980. 


La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 221 


tesa a riprendersi quello che le appartiene di diritto, meta della sua terra, che il 
padre alla morte della madre aveva lasciato alla gemella non avendo pit notizie di 
lei e che Biondaura aveva in seguito rifiutato di condividere, negando qualsiasi 
consanguineita. Nel Floridoro & solo a Risamante che Fonte riserva la quéte: 
tutti gli altri personaggi si muovono sul terreno dell’avventura. La sua traiettoria 
& quella tipica degli eroi: allontanamento dalla famiglia, crescita solitaria in 
compagnia di un anziano maestro, scoperta del proprio destino, dimostrazione di 
valore, ritorno alla terra natale e assunzione delle prerogative reali con futura 
influente genealogia da rintracciarsi attraverso i secoli. Siamo quindi di fronte a 
una narrativa edipica? Certamente, e come potrebbe essere altrimenti nel nostro 
inconscio culturale e in modo particolare nell’epica?*! Ma se la storia di 
Risamante é in sé edipica, la costruzione testuale del Floridoro rifiuta di farsi 
lineare e di tendere logicamente e provvidenzialmente verso una conclusione 
soddisfacente. Ma su questo tornero pill avanti. 

E chiaro che Fonte non é stata la prima, né certamente I’ unica, a dare alle 
donne |’opportunita di occuparsi di problemi politici e militari. Le Crociate, per 
esempio, avevano visto un buon numero di donne partecipare alle spedizioni non 
semplicemente nel ruolo che ci aspetteremmo di prostitute e serve domestiche, o 
in quello di mogli, come in Tasso, ma come combattenti ben armate.4? La 
presenza femminile in ruoli insoliti, incluso quello militare, viene del resto data 
come normale nel testo; se non molte donne si sono affermate, Fonte mette in 
chiaro, é stato, in ogni caso, per motivi culturali e non biologici: 


Le donne in ogni eta fur da natura 

Di gran giudizio e d’animo dotate, 

Né men atte a mostrar con studio e cura 
Senno e valor degli uomini son nate; 

E perché se comune é la figura, 

Se non son le sostanze variate, 

S’hanno simile un cibo e un parlar, denno 
Differente aver poi |’ardir e ‘] senno? 


Sempre s’é visto e vede (pur ch’alcuna 
Donna v’abbia voluto il pensier porre) 
Nella milizia riuscir pit d’una, 


41 Per una ricostruzione della narrativa occidentale come edipica, rimando a Roland Barthes, Le 
Plaisir du texte, Parigi, Editions du Seuil, 1973. Per i problemi con la logica edipica quando il 
genere del soggetto del discorso cambia, si veda Teresa De Lauretis, “Oedipus Interruptus”, Wide 
Angle 7 (1985), 34-40. 

La loro partecipazione era anche stata ratificata da papa Innocenzo III in Quod super his and 
Ex multa (1200-1209) e notata da testimoni oculari. Si veda James Brundage, “The Crusader’s 
Wife: A Canonistic Quandary” in Studia Gratiana 12 (1967), 425-41, p. 434, e Medieval Canon 
Law and the Crusades, Madison, U of Wisconsin P, 1969, p. 77; e Helen Solterer, “Figures of 
Female Militancy in Medieval France”, Signs 16 (1991), 522-49, p. 536. 


222 Valeria Finucci 


E ’] pregio e ’] grido a molti uomini torre; 
E cosi nelle lettere e in ciascuna 

Impresa che l’uom pratica e discorre 

Le donne si buon frutto han fatto e fanno, 
Che gli uomini a invidiar punto non hanno. 
(IV, 1-2) 


Né Fonte é stata l’unica a darci guerriere dai muscoli possenti, tranne quello del 
cuore. Marfisa nel Furioso ha molto di cui essere orgogliosa e Clorinda nella 
Liberata si diverte quasi a smembrare i suoi nemici. Ma Marfisa rimane 
consistentemente una figura comica e Clorinda, ripetutamente proiettata come 
““mostruosa”, viene uccisa dal suo stesso amante.*3 Risamante, al contrario, e in 
collusione con il suo nome, é figura seria e ha fini politici e pratici ben precisi, 
che consegue. 

E li consegue da donna. Non c’é niente di androgino nella descrizione di 
Risamante perché é solo l’armatura a darla via per uomo. In un immaginario 
culturale in cui la donna é collocata in opposizione all’uomo e al tempo stesso 
proiettata come sua necessaria alterita perché meglio rifletta la rappresentazione 
che lui ha di sé — la costruzione del simbolico come la offre Jacques Lacan —, 
nella figura dell’amazzone sono di solito fatte confluire tutte le rappresentazioni 
di un femminile aberrante: né uomo (date le caratteristiche sessuali femminili) né 
donna (date le scelte comportamentali maschili), l’amazzone abita in un territorio 
altro. Altro fino a un certo punto naturalmente, perché se nel mito le amazzoni 
sono consistentemente rappresentate come disinteressate al sesso, é anche vero 
che esse sono decisamente eterosessuali: se non marginalizzate con la morte — 
ferite tradizionalmente nella loro parte pili femminile e materna (il seno/cuore) 
per aver rifiutato una identificazione al femminile in cultura (si veda il caso di 
Camilla nell’Eneide e di Clorinda nella Gerusalemme liberata) — venivano 
femminilizzate con il matrimonio, quindi recuperate come oggetto di desiderio (la 
situazione di Bradamante nel Furioso). La possibilita di una loro scelta sessuale 
omosessuale non é stata in genere offerta perché questa scelta avrebbe messo in 
questione il principio della indispensabilita maschile nel romanzo cavalleresco o, 
se si vuole, nella narrativa in genere, con la connessa gerarchizzazione delle 
relazioni sociosessuali. Ne consegue che |’amazzone @ essenzialmente una 
creazione di uomini per uomini: immaginata come trasgressiva, si, ma non al 
punto da non poter essere recuperata come moglie o, nel caso la sua identita 
fosse troppo asessuata, punita per essersi messa troppo al di 1a della legge.“ 


43 Sulla figura di Clorinda come mostruosa, si veda Valeria Finucci, The Politics of the Body in the 
Italian Renaissance: Masquerading Sex and Gender, lavoro in corso. 

a4 Sull’androgino, l’omosessuale e il transessuale, si veda Finucci, The Lady Vanishes, cap. 7 e 8. 
In modo specifico sull’amazzone, si vedano le pagine 237-39. Per l’identificazione delle 
amazzoni con |’eterosessualita rimando a Page DuBois, Centaurs and Amazons: Women and the 
Pre-history of the Great Chain of Being, Ann Arbor, U of Michigan P, 1982, p. 69; e Winfried 





La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 223 


Adesso la Fonte avrebbe potuto proporre una figura di amazzone 
anticonformista come anticonformistiche erano state le sue rappresentazioni 
maschili. Ma non lo fa, secondo me, per due motivi. Prima di tutto, lei sa fin 
troppo bene che nella cultura del suo tempo ci sono solo due ruoli rimediabili 
per le donne: quello di moglie e quello di monaca o, in realta, uno, perché 
tradizionalmente la decisione di monacare le figlie veniva presa come risultato di 
non avere a portata di mano una scelta matrimoniale socialmente pit 
vantaggiosa. C’era inoltre un unico comportamento sessuale raccomandabile e, 
ancora una volta, da usufruire solo con il matrimonio. Nel Merito, un’ opera dai 
fini pill teoretici che rappresentazionali, Fonte avrebbe scelto come stato 
ottimale della donna quello non matrimoniale, anche se ne riconosceva la 
difficolta in una societa in cui non si prevedevano comportamenti anomali. II 
matrimonio veniva connotato al negativo: “Mirate, che bella ventura d’una 
Donna é il maritarsi: perder la robba, perder se stessa, e non acquistar nulla se 
non li figliuoli che le danno travaglio e l’imperio d’un’uomo, che la domini a 
sua voglia” (69). 

Ma nel Floridoro non @ politicamente desiderabile creare una eroina 
irrecuperabile perché é necessario che essa assuma un ruolo dinastico e garantisca 
la sua successione in conformita con le codificazioni del genere cavalleresco. 
Percid, e questo é il secondo motivo per cui, per me, Fonte rimane nella 
tradizione, sappiamo quasi subito che Risamante si sposera. Ma 
sorprendentemente, nel momento stesso in cui € posto come indispensabile, il 
vincolo matrimoniale é descritto come inutile: l?uomo destinato a Risamante, il 
re di Cipro, vien presto messo in chiaro, non dominera lei, come é evidente che 
Rinaldo farebbe con Armida nel Tasso e come, con molta probabilita, farebbe 
Ruggiero nel Furioso. Invece, se prendiamo per seria la narrazione della profezia 
di Delfi, questo cavaliere si distingue proprio per la sua posizione subalterna: 
non emette mai un’opinione, ed é stato perfino vinto da un guerriero famoso non 
tanto per le sue azioni quanto per |’instabilita dei suoi scopi. In parole povere, 
questo marito non vale la pena di averlo: nel mondo eroico in cui si muove, lui é 
letteralmente una non entita e la Fonte non si cura nemmeno di identificarlo con 
un nome proprio. 

Anche in quanto a figli il conto torna diversamente. Se a Bradamante veniva 
annunciato dal mago Merlino il suo futuro concepimento di un figlio dal nome 
doppiamente “altro”, Ruggierino, figlio di Ruggiero, a Risamante viene rivelato 
proletticamente che avra una figlia il cui nome, Salarisa, riprendera, a quanto se 
ne puo sapere, solo il suo: “Del re di Cipro sia da te concetta / Unica figlia, 
Salarisa detta” (III, 44). Se quindi per Bradamante la maternité confermava 
l’accesso completo alla sua femminilita e la rinuncia a qualsiasi desiderio 
conflittuale o improprio (in termini freudiani la donna, nel passaggio edipico, 


Schleiner, “Male Cross—dressing and Transvestism in Renaissance Romances”, Sixteenth Century 
Journal 19 (1988), 605— 19, p. 614. 


224 Valeria Finucci 


sublima la sua libido per il padre con la speranza di avere, attraverso un figlio, 
quello che il padre ha), per Risamante il “‘risarcimento” ha poco di fallico. 

Biondaura, |’esatto pari della gemella Risamante in quanto a grazie, é 
decisamente il suo opposto nel modo in cui le usa per garantirsi potere. Ultima 
discendente di figure femminili contente di essere oggetto di desiderio, Biondaura 
riesce ad avere dalla sua parte i migliori guerrieri nella lotta contro la sorella 
appunto perché vende metaforicamente la sua bellezza a fini personali. E adesso 
interessante notare che Biondaura, cosi abbondantemente presente nel testo come 
voce, non vi appare mai fisicamente. In questo senso lei illustra perfettamente il 
ruolo della donna come assenza nell’immaginario maschile (la gemella 
Risamante rappresenta naturalmente I’altra faccia della medaglia, la donna come 
superpresenza, minaccia). Assenza nel senso di soggetto, beninteso, perché come 
oggetto di desiderio, come corpo fantasizzato, é appunto il suo non esserci nella 
rappresentazione che giustifica quella spirale di violenza attraverso cui i suoi 
innamorati riconfermano la loro mascolinita e stabiliscono, come suggerivo nel 
caso di Celsidea, la loro identita. Macandro, per esempio, va dall’ Armenia alla 
Grecia per dimostrare con le armi che Biondaura, di cui é innamorato, é la piu 
bella di quella parte del continente, e quindi lui non é solo il pit fortunato tra gli 
uomini ma anche il pit forte.45 E questo il plot con cui Floridoro inizia, 
ricollegandosi a tanti altri esempi del genere. Risamante, sfidandolo, raddrizzera 
le cose dimostrandogli che il suo errore non é tanto quello di essersi messo a 
combattere per la bellezza della sua donna (la molla, come dicevo, della 
omosocialita maschile, con cui lei, come donna, ha poco da spartire) quanto che 
la sua donna ha sposato la causa sbagliata, quella di vittimizzare, in nome di una 
discutibile decisione paterna, il suo doppio fisico e psicologico, la gemella. 

Vale a questo punto la pena di vedere come la storia delle due sorelle prima 
reduplichi e poi si distacchi da quella di due altre sorelle ariostesche, Logistilla e 
Alcina, anche qui l’una il completo opposto dell’altra. Come Biondaura, Alcina 
aveva usurpato la terra alla sorella, terra che il padre aveva dato a Logistilla 
perché unica figlia legittima. Logistilla @ “pudica e santa” (OF VI, 46) alla 
maniera di Risamante, ma Fonte si rifiuta di creare in Biondaura un’altra Alcina 
“iniqua e scelerata”. Biondaura é manipolatrice, non mangiatrice di uomini; 
politicamente adepta, ma non al punto di donare il suo corpo 
indiscriminatamente; é contenta dell’amore di Macandro, ma non lo ricambia 
perché il suo scopo non é di provvedersi di un compagno o di un pari 
nell’amministrazione del suo regno, ma di mettere riparo all’aggressivita 
(“qualche strano intoppo” I, 11) della sorella. Inoltre, la punizione fisica finale 


45 Cornelia, in I! merito delle donne, dira che bisogna stare attenti a credere a quello che gli 
uomini hanno detto e scritto sulle donne perché perfino quando le lodano essi sono alla ricerca di 
una affermazione personale (“rare volte ne dicon ben, ma laudano il lor sesso in generale e in 
particolare per laudar se medesmi”, p. 41) Comelia naturalmente aveva visto bene: tutta la poesia 
petrarchesca @ una conferma di questa razionalizzazione. 





La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 225 


che cade di solito tanto violentemente su figure di donne sessualmente liberate (si 
pensi all’ Alcina sdentata e canuta), non viene nemmeno immaginata per lei. In 
altre parole, Fonte, donna, trova improponibile creare donne che si buttano via 0 
sono buttate via con nonchalance. 

Vorrei adesso suggerire che questa inimicizia, questa invidia, tra le due 
gemelle é solo a prima analisi tale. Quello che Risamante e Biondaura vogliono 
é chiaramente la stessa cosa, ma é soltanto litigando per conquistarsela che esse 
possono identificarsi in maniera narcisistica l’una con I’altra e riunire, per cosi 
dire simbioticamente, la loro parte maschile e femminile. Risamante combatte 
contro Biondaura prima di tutto per affermare, trasgredendo la decisione paterna, 
che il regno degli avi deve essere ereditato in maniera uguale perché identico é lo 
stato anagrafico delle due sorelle. In questo modo la sua identita é affermata 
attraverso un processo di differenziazione, per cui, cercando di mostrare il suo 
valore con una vittoria armata, lei proclama la sua differenza postedipica tra sé 
come soggetto e l’altro da sé come oggetto, cioé, in termini narrativi, tra il suo 
io e quello di una sorella che fisicamente passerebbe per lei, ma la cui mancanza 
di pietas la mette specularmente al suo opposto. Secondariamente, é soltanto 
desiderando di avere quello che la sorella vuole, attraverso un processo 
emulatorio, che Risamante puo ritrovarsi nel suo doppio in una unita preedipica 
e quindi annullare la presente differenza nel simbolico rituffandosi 
nell’immaginario materno (é stato solo alla morte della madre che la “morte” di 
Risamante é stata accettata/ratificata dal padre). In ambedue i casi il risultato é lo 
stesso: sia cercando di differenziarsi da Biondaura che cercando di imitarla, 
Risamante entra in contatto con I’altra parte di sé — non il suo altro, ma il suo 
quasi uguale — e cosi stabilisce la propria identita e la sua interezza di soggetto. 
Lo sguardo dell’altra, come nelle due occasioni in cui, togliendosi 1|’elmetto, 
viene scambiata per la sorella creando un effetto freudianamente unheimiich, é, in 
ultima analisi, il suo. Il motivo per il quale il Floridoro finisce senza 
spiegazioni proprio al punto in cui, avendo sconfitto la sorella, la quéte é finita e 
Risamante si trova davanti all’unica scelta tematicamente saggia, quella di 
eliminarla (per tutto il testo era stata occupata a reclutare aiuti contro di lei), é 
un’indicazione forse del fatto che siamo arrivati a un’impasse: quello che sembra 
indispensabile da un punto di vista narrativo la Fonte lo trova improponibile da 
un punto di vista psicologico. 

Anche I’altro Leit—motiv del patrimonio cavalleresco, la figura dell’amante 
abbandonata — e qui Didone troneggia nel mondo classico, ma ci sono esempi 
del tipo dappertutto, da Olimpia e Alcina in Ariosto a Armida in Tasso — é 
visitato nel Floridoro diversamente. Le donne infatti non sono mai abbandonate; 
se gli uomini le lasciano, é per andare a cercare rinforzi per liberarle. E spesso 
sono altre donne, come nella storia di Nicobaldo e Lucimena, che promettono di 
venire a salvare la donzella in pericolo. Le donne, inoltre, rimangono oggetto di 
desiderio per gli uomini siano 0 non siano vergini, un trattamento questo non 
certo tipico, data la loro solita resa letteraria, se vergini 0 verginee, di oggetti 


226 Valeria Finucci 


sessualmente inaccessibili e percid doppiamente desiderabili, e se non vergini, di 
oggetti temporaneamente necessari alla crescita sessuale dell’eroe protagonista, 
ma eventualmente messi da parte. Basti pensare, nel primo caso, a tutta la poesia 
petrarchesca e ad Angelica fino all’incontro con Medoro e, nel secondo, ai moti 
di orrore di Ruggiero una volta che il suo intrallazzo con Alcina diventa un peso 
narrativo. 

Quando queste donne sono descritte fisicamente, inoltre, il rendimento non é 
voyeuristico. Nel secondo canto del Floridoro, per esempio, Fonte offre una 
caratterizzazione di Risamante quanto mai fedele alla tradizione: 


Si tolse l’elmo e discopri le bionde 
Chiome dell’or pit terse e luminose, 

E due stelle apparir tanto gioconde 
Che per invidia il sol nel mar s’ascose, 
Movea le guance fresche e rubiconde 
Invidia ai gigli e alle purpuree rose, 
La man che disarmata anco tenea 

La neve di candor vincer parea. 

(II, 26). 


Ma nel contesto del canone petrarchesco da cui appunto la Fonte prende le 
mosse, c’é come si vede e sorprendentemente solo un elemento che viene 
aggiunto alla descrizione della faccia: la mano. Adesso, per ritornare all’ Ariosto, 
tra la faccia e la mano abbiamo il pit delle volte trovato il seno delle varie 
protagoniste: si pensi al “petto colmo e largo” (VII, 14) di Alcina, alle “crudette 
pome” (X, 96) di Angelica e alle “poppe ritondette” (XI, 68) di Olimpia, per non 
dire niente di quella parte corporea che Ariosto si rifiuta timidamente di 
nominare, ma a cui non puo non accennare (“Di quelle parti debbovi dir anche, / 
che pur celare ella bramava invano?” XI, 69). Qui invece la Fonte elimina la 
possibilita di sessualizzare la rappresentazione femminile scegliendo di darci un 
incontro pubblico, re incluso, invece di uno a tu per tu tra il cavaliere e la 
guerriera. 

La donna non viene quindi a essere confrontata con una dinamica di desiderio 
che inevitabilmente la reiscriverebbe come corpo, oggetto di piacere scopofilico 
controllato dallo sguardo libidinale maschile, ma come soggetto perché é solo 
adesso che il nome di Risamante viene rivelato e la sua genealogia spiegata (II, 
30-36). Invece di una scena d’innamoramento che segue i fantasmi 
dell’immaginario maschile abbiamo un momento epico di 
costituzione/riconoscimento del soggetto: l’eroe preannunciato dagli eventi fin 
dal primo canto (“avresti / Visto un guerrier d’aspetto ardito e franco / Quindi 
passar con belle e ricche vesti” I, 51) @ finalmente annunciato in maniera 
catartica, teatrale: “Risamante per nome s’appella” (II, 30). In altre parole, da 
cavaliere errante (la prima immagine di Risamante é quella di un guerriero pronto 
a lottare per difendere i diritti di una donna), passiamo a un cavaliere en quéte 





La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 227 


reale: la decisione di riprendersi il regno é dichiarata, il metodo delineato: 
“Armata ogni citta cerca, ogni regno, / E giova a questo e a quel perché le tante / 
Sue cortesie dian opra al suo disegno, / Fa beneficio a questo e a quel signore, / 
Perché al bisogno suo le dia favore” (II, 36). 

Nessun discorso cavalleresco, finalmente, pud mancare di cimentarsi con la 
figura dell’ammaliatrice, l’incarnazione del “problema” donna. Anche qui Fonte 
ci offre, pili oO meno consciamente, una revisione dei miti. Come si sa, Ariosto 
aveva deciso di liberarsi di Alcina una volta che Ruggiero aveva imparato la 
lezione sui pericoli delle gratificazioni sessuali indiscriminate e aveva denunciato 
la sua femminilita come una mascherata; Tasso, da parte sua, aveva preferito 
lasciare le cose sull’ambiguo promuovendo Armida come figura di “ancella” ma 
non dicendoci nulla di pit sulla sua futura possibile relazione con Rinaldo. Fonte 
crea Circetta, figlia di Circe e di Ulisse, dalle grazie magicalmente eterne ma dai 
“Jumi onesti e santi” (V, 39), che di magico sembra avere molto all’inizio, ma 
che si mostra essenzialmente una brava donna alla fine.4® Vedendola alla maniera 
ariostesca tramutare un uomo in albero e poi dirigersi verso un palazzo magico 
custodito da appropriati animali selvaggi, ci aspetteremmo che lei seduca i suoi 
due nuovi compagni. Niente del genere succede. Non solo Circetta, “vergine 
pudica” (XI, 91), si mette a aiutare gli uomini che avrebbe dovuto abbindolare, 
ma si trasforma presto in una figura di Melissa ariostesca quando, prendendo una 
veste allegorica, comincia a descrivere le sculture del suo palazzo. 

Che la Fonte non cerchi nemmeno di portare I’episodio di Circetta a una sua 
epifania non deve stupirci. Secondo me I’episodio non é concludibile perché non 
c’é precedente in letteratura a cui ricollegarsi. Se la seduttrice é necessaria perché 
il suo smascheramento costituisce l’apice del movimento di crescita sessuale 
dell’eroe, come fa una scrittrice a pensare il suo essere femminile come 
ripugnante quando |’eroe che lei sta descrivendo non ha pit bisogno di lei?*’ Se 
l’ammaliatrice, appunto perché in possesso di arti magiche, e quindi capace di 
gestire la propria sessualita, sovverte 1’economia libidinale mettendo cosi in 
questione la superiorita maschile nel rapporto di coppia, pericolo a cui 


46 Sulla femminilita come maschera messa su dalla donna in Ariosto per nascondere la propria 
mascolinita o per apparire come si preferisce si appaia in cultura, si veda Valeria Finucci, “The 
Female Masquerade: The Game of Desire in Ariosto’s Orlando Furioso,” in Desire in the 
Renaissance: Psychoanalysis and Literature, ac. di Valeria Finucci e Regina Schwartz, Princeton, 
Princeton UP, 1994. 

Gli esempi sono non solo nel Furioso ma anche in L’/talia liberata dai Goti del Trissino, per 
esempio, in cui Acratia, una volta smascherata, emana lo stesso puzzo di cui Machiavelli si era 
lamentato nella sua lettera a Luigi Guicciardini (“Spectabili viro L. Guicciardini in Mantova 
tanquam fratri carissimo”) dopo I’incontro con la prostituta lavandaia: “E, come prima aperse la 
bocca, n’usci un fiato si puzzolente, che, trovandosi offesi da queste peste due porte di dua 
sdegnosissimi sensi, li occhi e il naso, e messi a tale sdegno, che lo stomaco, per non poter 
sopportare tale offesa, tutto si commosse’”’. In Niccol6 Machiavelli, Lettere, a c. di Giuseppe 
Lesca, Firenze, Rinascimento del libro, 1929, 25-28, p. 27. Per un esempio ancora piu 
spettacolare, rimando all’ episodio dantesco della “femmina balba” in Purgatorio 19: 7-9. 


228 Valeria Finucci 


l’eroe/autore reagisce con costruzioni punitive della sessualita altrui, in che senso 
pud un’autrice abbracciare la mistica della donna come pericolo? Cosa fare del 
resto con una maga, se non farle sedurre uomini? Fonte connota il topos in 
direzione positiva in questo episodio, ma la sua inabilita a arrivare a un punto di 
approdo narrativo, e quindi a scegliere una linea comportamentale 
ideologicamente precisa per Circetta, ci dice molto sul peso di costrutti culturali 
riprodotti cosi di routine in testi letterari. 

La sua mano é pili sicura quando si cimenta con I’episodio di Nicobaldo che 
rifiuta le avances sessuali di una maga perché innamorato di sua moglie, caso 
non molto tipico nel mondo cavalleresco dato che la fedelta sessuale maschile 
verso maghe disposte a tutto @ tradizionalmente presentata come impossibile, 
ammesso pure che fosse desiderabile: Ruggiero, per esempio, rimane invischiato 
con Alcina anche se innamorato di Bradamante e anche se messo in guardia 
ripetutamente in precedenza. II “no” di Nicobaldo é inoltre diverso da quello di 
Filandro nell’episodio di Gabrina dell’Orlando furioso: in Ariosto il giovane 
aveva rifiutato la tentazione sessuale per non rompere il patto di fede e di 
amicizia con un altro uomo (XXI, 26), ma qui é per non romperlo con una 
donna. E anche la tentatrice si rivela alla fine, come Circetta, un essere 
solidamente morale perché si pente delle sue mire erotiche e decide di aiutare 
Nicobaldo a uscire di prigione: “E perché ancor conosci che m’importi / Quanto 
mi prema il fallo c’>ho commesso, / Io ti prometto a rischio por mia vita / Per 
dar (se posso) anco a tua donna aita” (VI, 74). Siamo di fronte all’espressione di 
una sessualita femminile che riflette una quanto mai tipica adesione a modelli 
culturali? E probabile, ma siccome la Fonte scrivera tra poco il suo trattato sul 
merito delle donne, tenderei a pensare che lei fosse pit che conscia dei ruoli 
femminili in cultura. Percid farei un’altra ipotesi, e cioé che invece siamo 
davanti al riconoscimento di una soggettivita “altra” che € messa in grado di 
interiorizzare il potere e esteriorizzare il desiderio, incluso quello erotico, in 
maniera diversa. 

* 
Sarebbe indubbiamente scorretto leggere in positivo le varie trasformazioni dei 
topoi che la Fonte usa senza mettere in chiaro che, addizionandole |’una all’ altra 
in un continuum strutturale, queste trasformazioni sono a volte solo fini a se 
stesse. Quel che manca a Fonte non é la verve creativa o il piacere dell’intreccio, 
quanto uno schema valido, alla maniera dell’Ariosto. Se @ vero infatti che 
l’intreccio ariostesco era stato censurato ripetutamente, nei decenni successivi 
alla pubblicazione del Furioso, per la sua struttura divagante e dispersiva, 
nessuno ha mai messo in dubbio che il poeta ferrarese fosse pienamente e 
sorprendentemente in controllo del suo materiale. E raro nel Furioso trovare una 
storia non conclusa 0 un personaggio di cui non sappiamo il destino.4® Ma 


48 Due esempi in tal senso mi vengono in mente: quello di Ferrati, che sparisce dopo l’incontro 
armato con Bradamante, e quello della messaggera Ullania lasciata definitivamente alla fine 








La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 229 


Fonte ha problemi a mettere un freno alla sua effusivita e sembra procedere senza 
direzioni precise. Fin dal primo canto, per esempio, ci offre una vicenda 
strutturalmente poco necessaria all’economia del testo e per cui crea l’esigenza di 
un torneo che non avra mai luogo: la regina di Dacia, vedova, racconta Fonte, é 
raggirata dal cavaliere Amandriano, innamorato delle sue grazie, in combutta con 
il servo Parmino. Questi invano inventa la storia di un toro che emette gioielli 
per meglio abbindolarla (un altro prestito ariostesco dalla novella del giudice 
Anselmo nel Canto XLII), perché verra il mago Celidante a salvarla dalla 
violenza sessuale con |’imprigionamento in una piramide di cristallo del reo e del 
suo complice. Per liberarli (ma perché, visto che sono, appunto, rei?) molti 
cavalieri vengono a cimentarsi. II rendimento é interessante, la caratterizzazione 
della donna sicura, ma non sappiamo né perché I’episodio sia inserito a questo 
punto né come finira (I, 56-96). 

Lo stesso vale per la seconda fabula del testo, a la mode della Ginevra 
ariostesca. Accusata ingiustamente dal cavaliere Lideo, disperatamente 
innamorato di lei, di avere ucciso lo zio, re Galbo d’Egitto, Raggidora, 
“bellissima vergine del Nilo” (II, 72), pu dimostrarsi innocente dell’accusa solo 
se un cavaliere viene a prendere le sue difese e vince (II, 64 e IV, 49-66). Ma 
anche qui non abbiamo né un duello né una conclusione: Risardo decide di andare 
ad aiutarla, ma é presto sviato non una, ma due volte, da susseguenti interessi 
sentimentali, e del nano che chiede soccorsi non sappiamo pit nulla. Fonte 
dimostra di aver capito perfettamente la tecnica dell’entrelacement e il 
meccanismo della quéte ariostesca, ma non crea un blocco formale con relazioni 
simmetriche o speculari. Non si comprende, per esempio, la connessione di 
questa storia con le altre a livello morale, pseudo storico o sentimentale, o per lo 
meno la connessione é cosi vaga che é difficile da cogliere perché gli sviluppi 
sono periferici: Lideo é si collegato all’episodio di Circetta perché suo fratello é 
trasformato da lei in albero (un altro prestito ariostesco dalla storia di Astolfo 
nell’isola di Alcina), e all’episodio di Celsidea perché un altro suo fratello, 
Stellidone, va a combattere nel torneo in suo onore (V, 50), mai riferimenti non 
rimandano a sviluppi ulteriori né aiutano ad approfondire la conoscenza degli altri 
personaggi. 

Eppure Fonte personalmente, nell’unica caratterizzazione di sé come autrice 
del Floridoro (caratterizzazione in cui rifiuta di nominarsi per pudore — 
modestamente — come il suo nome e pseudonimo indicano) dichiara che il suo 
problema non era di cosa scrivere ma come scrivere, avendo gia idee precise sul 
disegno dell’opera che stava elaborando: 


Nell’ultima facciata, che scolpita 


Di dietro fu dove era poca luce, 


dell’episodio di Marganorre. Ben pochi in un testo dalle dimensioni consistenti e con tecnica a 
differimento. 


230 Valeria Finucci 


Una giovane stavasi romita 

E non ardia con gli altri uscir in luce, 
Vergognandosi assai che troppo ardita 
Aspirasse alla via ch’al ciel conduce, 
Avendo tanto basso e fosco ingegno 
Quanto sublime e chiaro era il disegno. 


Bianca avea indosso e lunga la gonnella 
Come allo stato virginal conviensi, 

E pareva in eta verde e novella 

Aver nel petto alti pensier accensi. 

Non avea breve alcun questa donzella 
Che la fesse palese agli altri sensi, 
Ch’allo scultor che la sua effigie espresse 
Grato non fu che ‘] nome si sapesse. 

(X, 36-37). 


Adesso si potrebbe far l’ipotesi che la logica narrativa edipica lineare a cui siamo 
abituati non necessariamente fa appello a una scrittrice impegnata a rivisitare il 
genere. In questo caso, tenendo alta la bandiera del femminismo e il desiderio del 
recupero totale delle scrittrici alla tradizione letteraria, si potrebbe leggere 
coerenza dove c’é frammentazione e trovare una ragione alle rotture 
problematiche: il lettore simpatetico, come un chirurgo, conscio della 
particolarita del modello offerto, rattopperebbe allora i buchi nel libro della Fonte 
e creerebbe un testo continuo e seducente da una narrativa che iperbolicamente e 
radicalmente rifiuta di farsi assimilare. Ma io vorrei mettere da parte la creativita 
di chi legge e ridare la penna a chi scrive e suggerire percid un’altra spiegazione: 
che la difficolta nell’unire e nel concludere della Fonte é pid il risultato di una 
scelta personale che di mancanza di abilita tecnica. In altre parole, dal momento 
che la messa in atto del desiderio tipica di ogni racconto é un momento 
liberatorio, la Fonte é riuscita a eliminare lo stadio dell’(auto)censura, credo, solo 
scegliendo pill o meno esplicitamente di non concludere. Quindi si é messa in 
grado di costruire ruoli attraenti 0 inusitati per protagoniste femminili, per 
esempio, e ruoli ambiguamente passivi per quelli maschili perché poteva 
rimandare a un futuro che fortunatamente sapeva non sarebbe mai venuto, e 
quindi a un futuro psicologicamente poco minacciante, la possibilita di censurare 
queste scelte e normalizzare le caratterizzazioni trasgressive in nome di una 
conclusione “logica”. In questo modo Fonte poteva esorcizzare |’ansietA che le 
veniva dal dover politicamente rispettare la forma esteriore di un genere letterario 
di successo nello stesso momento in cui si sentiva poco desiderosa di riscriverne 
alla lettera le norme rappresentazionali. 

Che cosa é in conclusione Tredici Canti del Floridoro? Un romanzo fallito? 
Un’epica inconclusa? Un esperimento giovanile? Naturalmente é tutte queste 
cose fermo restando pero che il giudizio, qualunque esso sia, si fonda sempre e 





La scrittura epico-cavalleresca al femminile: Moderata Fonte 231 


comunque su un modo normativo di vedere il genere cavalleresco che, penso di 
aver dimostrato, non é detto possa essere usato indipendentemente dal sesso degli 
scrittori. E Tredici canti del Floridoro una fantasia femminista? Certamente & 
anche questo, perché se é vero, come affermavano i neoplatonici, e con buona 
pace di Roland Barthes, che l’unita puo essere metaforizzata come la narrativa del 
padre e la molteplicita come la narrativa della madre, allora si puO dire che Fonte 
ha scritto alla fin fine l’unica narrativa che le veniva facile da scrivere, da donna: 
ampie digressioni, ambivalenze, incoerenze, mancanza di distanza, 
frammentazioni e conclusioni posticipate abbondano infatti nel Floridoro. In 
questo senso, abbiamo davanti una scrittura in nome della molteplicita, 
all’ Ariosto certamente, ma senza quella sistematicita “maschile” ariostesca, per 
rimanere nella metafora neoplatonica, che inevitabilmente faceva muovere le fila 
del Furioso verso plausibili conclusioni. Questo pero ci porterebbe a un discorso 
essenzializzante e ad affermare, come é stato fatto, che la biologia é determinante 
nella costituzione dell’io individuale. 

Vorrei invece spostare |’enfasi sull’immaginario culturale perché solo cosi, 
credo, é possibile registrare la differenza — lo straniamento — che una scrittrice 
porta ai vari generi letterari, a livello sia testuale che tematico. Nel caso della 
Fonte tale differenza, penso di avere dimostrato, va colta nella mancanza di 
desiderio, o forse nell’inabilita a riscrivere, di volta in volta, anche volendolo, 
quello che la tradizione tramandava. Sarebbe facile adesso mettere da parte questa 
riscrittura piena di aporie e leggere in essa la conferma che il Floridoro, nel suo 
tentativo di legittimarsi costantemente come progenie ariostesca, é nient’altro 
che un’opera minore. Allora invece di registrare il fatto, come avevo ipotizzato 
all’inizio, che la partecipazione femminile é stata ignorata nel campo della 
letteratura cavalleresca, si potrebbe continuare a ripetere che le donne, anche 
quando si sono fatte visibili con la penna, hanno scritto poco che valesse la pena 
di leggere, allora e adesso. Perfino una lettura aperta a una “poetics of gender” 
come penso sia questa, si affermerebbe cosi, ha problemi a dimostrare la capacita 
della Fonte a reggere il confronto con 1 suoi contemporanei, minori inclusi. Ma 
io credo che siano proprio queste incoerenze a offrire, retrospettivamente, un’altra 
chiave di lettura e a dimostrare non solo quanto diversamente le donne possano 
percepire le convenzioni intrinseche ai vari generi letterari e quanto 
contraddittoriamente possano condividerne gli scenari, ma quanto difficile sia la 
strada per riscriverli, o inventarne di nuovi, e di pit’ consoni, all’espressione della 
loro individualita e intellettualita.*9 


Duke University 


49 Per aver reso possibile, con borse di studio, le ricerche che hanno portato alla stesura di questo 
saggio, ringrazio le seguenti organizzazioni: American Philosophical Society, Duke University 
Research Council e Josiah Charles Trent Memorial Foundation. Uno speciale ringraziamento ai 
colleghi Lina Bolzoni e Mario Saccenti. 














Edoardo Leébano 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994* 


Introduzione 

Dalle ricerche svolte risulta che nel periodo che va dal gennaio del 1984 ai primi 
mesi del 1994 sono apparse, in Italia e altrove, numerose pubblicazioni dedicate 
a Luigi Pulci e alla sua opera. 

Oltre alla ristampa dell’edizione del Morgante curata dal Fatini e a quella del 
Morgante e Lettere per opera di Domenico De Robertis, negli ultimi cinque anni 
sono uscite anche due nuove edizioni del capolavoro pulciano, la prima con 
l’accurato e esteso commento di Davide Puccini e la seconda, con un apparato 
critico pill modesto, a cura di Giuliano Dego. Nel 1986 é stata anche stampata la 
tanto attesa edizione delle Opere minori del Pulci, ottimamente preparata da 
Paolo Orvieto. 

Durante il decennio in questione sono stati dati alle stampe anche quattro 
libri: il saggio del Carrai, dedicato ai fratelli Luca e Luigi Pulci; la breve 
monografia del Gareffi sulla figura dell’eroe nel Morgante; il volume della 
comparatista americana Constance Jordan che, presentato quale “first full-lenght 
study” in inglese sull’opera del poeta fiorentino, si € purtroppo rivelato assai 
deludente e, recentissimamente, il Morgante iperbolico del giovane studioso 
svizzero Ruedi Ankli. Interessanti anche le pagine in cui Peter Vassallo (Byron. 
The Italian Literary Influence) esamina |’influenza del Pulci sulla formazione 
letteraria di Byron. A queste pubblicazioni si affiancano pit di trenta articoli, di 
varia lunghezza e importanza. Non sorprende infine il fatto che il 1984 sia l’anno 
che ha visto la maggior fioritura di studi pulciani. 

Nel presentare questa rassegna desideriamo indicare alla particolare attenzione 
dei lettori il saggio di Paolo Orvieto “Sul rapporto Morgante-Orlando 
Laurenziano”. Non ci consta infatti che questo scritto, apparso in Germania nel 
1989, abbia avuto fra i critici pulciani tutta la diffusione che merita. Lo studioso 
inglese Mark Davie nella sua recensione al Pulci medievale — Modern Language 
Review 74 (October 1980): 910-11 — lamentava il fatto che l’Orvieto, dopo 
aver proposto la tesi del ribaltamento della “accepted relationship between 
Morgante and Orlando”, si fosse rifiutato di discuterla dichiarando di volerlo fare 
“in altra sede.” 

Ci pare che con il suo seminale articolo del 1989 1’Orvieto, rispondendo ai 
legittimi “lamenti” del Davie, abbia altresi esposto i limiti della questione, 


‘ Ringraziamo il collega ed amico Davy Carozza per i preziosi consigli e Molly Morrison per 
l'aiuto fornitoci quale “Library Research Assistant”. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context 


234 Edoardo Lébano 


offrendo una plausibile soluzione a quello che si presenta come uno dei pit 
affascinanti e controversi puzzles pulciani degli ultimi decenni. 


Bibliografia 

1984 

Aurigemma, Marcello. “Mariani e gli studi sul Morgante.” 
Letteratura italiana contemporanea V, 12 (maggio-agosto 1984): 
314-19. 

Riafferma l’importanza degli studi pulciani di Gaetano Mariani, in particolare del 
saggio Il” Morgante” e i cantari trecenteschi (Firenze: Le Monnier, 1953), in cui 
il critico estende il raffronto, precedentemente operato dal Getto fra il Morgante e 
l’ Orlando, ai testi dei canterini trecenteschi. Siffatto “minuzioso” raffronto 
permette, fra l’altro, al Mariani sia di individuare nel capolavoro pulciano il 
tentativo del poeta fiorentino di nobilitare culturalmente la tradizione popolare 
precedente, sia di sottolineare le differenze sostanziali esistenti fra l’ottava 
essenzialmente povera dei canterini e quella dinamica, coloristica e 
linguisticamente ricca del Pulci. 


Gajetti, Vittorio. “Tematica della gola e morte di Margutte.” 
L’arte dell’interpretare: studi critici offerti a Giovanni Getto. 
Cuneo: Arciere, 1984. 165-78. 
Per il Gajetti, ’ ingordigia che accomuna Morgante e Margutte stabilisce fra 
questi due personaggi un “rapporto inconsciamente ambiguo . . . percorso da 
un’intima e sottile tensione di tradimento collegata appunto alla problematica 
della gola”. Certo il motivo del tradimento, introdotto e negato da Margutte al 
termine della sua professione di fede gastronomica, é ribadito anche da Morgante 
che, alludendo al suo battaglio, esorta il mezzo gigante a guardarsi dal tradirlo. 
Se é vero che nell’episodio di Morgante e Margutte all’osteria del Dormi, il 
precario rapporto di “sodalitas” fra i due giganti si regge sul fatto che Margutte 
pone la sua furbizia a servizio della sbalorditiva voracita di Morgante, & 
altrettanto vero che, subito dopo, questa amicizia si fa pil “problematica”. II 
critico infatti inferisce che gli scherzi e le beffe perpetrate da Morgante ai danni di 
Margutte, il quale nella sua reazione rivela un crescente, rabbioso disappunto, 
“assumono sfumature evidenti di un’intenzionalita derisoria e proditoria, oltre che 
punitoria”. La volpina astuzia del mezzo gigante é del tutto impotente di fronte 
ad un Morgante “ingannatore nell’unico punto in cui la malizia di Margutte 
poteva essere sconfitta: la divorazione ciclopica”. Tradito nella gola dal 
compagno, che gli fa soffrire anche la sete, Margutte viene cosi punito “‘per tutte 
le sue malizie e per la malvagita innata”. La ragione per cui Margutte cerca 
l’amicizia di Morgante risiede forse nel fatto che il mezzo gigante vede nelle 
tremende capacita divoratorie del compagno, ch’egli non pud non ammirare, un 
pericolo per la propria incolumita fisica. Margutte, che teme d’essere “ingoiato” 
da Morgante, sente quindi pesare su di sé “l’inconscia paura della minaccia 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 235 


orcale”. 

Affrontando il tema della morte di Margutte, il Gajetti acutamente osserva 
che é proprio “nell’atto del ridere che é insito l’istinto di morte”. Il Pulci, che 
non avrebbe certo potuto far morire Margutte di indigestione — soluzione 
“troppo ovvia e banale” e con implicazioni moralistiche certo estranee al sentire 
del poeta — lo fa invece morire dal troppo ridere causatogli dall’ultima burla di 
Morgante (che gli ha sfilato gli stivali nel sonno), l’unica “della quale anche lui 
[Margutte] potra ridere”. Riguardo la natura del riso nel poema, il critico osserva 
infine che “per il Pulci il riso ha appunto un aspetto bifronte che nasce 
dall’ambivalenza: é felicita e dolore”. Ambivalenza che si riscontra anche 
nell’episodio della morte di Margutte il quale, come scrive il Pulci, “le risa 
raddoppia / e finalmente per la pena scoppia”. 


Giamatti, Bartlett A. “Headlong Horses, Headless Horsemen: An 
Essay on the Chivalric Epics of Pulci, Boiardo, and Ariosto”. 
Exile and Change in Renaissance Literature. New Haven: Yale 
UP, 1984. 33-75. 

Ristampa del saggio apparso con lo stesso titolo nel volume /talian Literature, 
Roots and Branches. Essays in Honor of T. G. Bergin. A c. di G. Rimanelli and 
J. K. Achity. New Haven: Yale UP, 1976. 265-307. 


Jordan, Constance. “The Ending of Pulci’s Morgante: The Poet 
as Vergil’s Gallus”. Romanic Review 75, 4 (November 1984): 
399-413. 

Convinta che un’attenta analisi della rappresentazione dei temi pastorali, 
contenuti nelle ottave 130-52 del cantare XXVIII del Morgante, documenti il 
cambiamento avvenuto nella mente del poeta durante la stesura dell’opera, la 
Jordan é dell’opinione che in queste ottave il Pulci “signals his disbelief in the 
possibility of a history celebrating the emperor Charlemagne, testifies to his 
interest in entertaining a notion of pastoral, and finally reveals that he rejects 
even this modest vision of the nature of his work”. 

Mentre il riferimento a Lucrezia Tornabuoni segna il punto in cui il Pulci 
“begins to speak about the Morgante as a distinctly non-epic work”, l’ottava 138 
evidenzia in vero la graduale tendenza del poeta a liberarsi dei “trappings” 
dell’epica per assumere il tono pit! semplice e evocativo della poesia pastorale. 
Le intenzioni espresse nell’ottava 141 denotano pertanto il proposito del Pulci di 
rappresentare “what certainly began as an epic-romance as something quite 
different”. Secondo la Jordan, |’autore del Morgante, completata nel 1483 l’ultima 
parte del poema, avrebbe creduto di poter riacquistare il favore del Magnifico 
rivelando il proponimento di cimentarsi nella poesia pastorale. I] Pulci, 
puntualizza il critico, certo non ignorava che questo genere letterario, di gran 
lunga favorito nei circoli medicei degli ultimi decenni del Quattrocento, era 
considerato una attivita “politically correct”; chi si dedicava alla letteratura era 


236 Edoardo Lébano 


infatti meno portato ad immischiarsi negli affari politici di Firenze. 

Nella seconda parte dell’articolo la Jordan rivolge la sua attenzione all’esame 
delle due reminiscenze virgiliane contenute nelle ottave 151 (7-8) e 152 (6-7). 
Considerando particolarmente complicata l’interpretazione dei versi della X 
ecloga, essa ritiene che il Pulci “has failed to clearly identify himself, . . . either 
with Vergil’s pastorai poet, . . . or with Gallus himself’. Pur ammettendo che 
sia possibile individuare nella persona di Gallo il Magnifico, oppure leggere le 
ultime ottave del Morgante come “a sophisticated imitation of Vergil’s 
Eclogues,” la Jordan sostiene l’ipotesi che il Pulci, includendo Gallo fra i suoi 
pastori, “colors his proposal with the ambivalence that in Vergil’s poem allows 
one to question, with Gallus, the enterprise of writing pastoral at the very 
moment it is being proposed”. Se si accetta quindi la tesi che il Pulci abbia 
seguito la logica del modello virgiliano, si puo pertanto riconoscere in Gallo un 
aspetto “‘of the poet’s own consciousness which anticipates the futility of his 
task, or his awareness of his patron’s certain rejection of what he intends to 
offer”. 

Ricordato poi che nella prima ottava del Morgante il Pulci manifesta 
l’intenzione di parlare della vita di Carlomagno, al quale Firenze deve la sua 
grandezza, la Jordan asserisce che il silenzio del poeta sulle “virti” 
dell’imperatore nel cantare XXVIII prova che il Morgante, anziché essere il 
poema modello che il Pulci intendeva inizialmente scrivere, é invece “a poem 
which examines a moment in history and finds a disjunction between the 
judgment advanced by tradition and authority, and the conclusion that might 
reasonably be drawn from evidence”. L’intenzione del Pulci di dedicarsi alla 
poesia pastorale viene conseguentemente recepita come la percezione da parte del 
poeta del suo fallimento quale autore di un romanzo epico scritto a glorificazione 
di Carlomagno e atto a favorire il ritorno dell’ eta della cavalleria nella Firenze del 
suo tempo. Pur riconoscendo che le lettere del Pulci non rivelano se, 0 in che 
maniera, il disappunto del poeta si rifletta nell’imitazione delle ecloghe, per la 
Jordan queste reminiscenze virgiliane costituiscono nondimeno la base per poter 
identificare nella figura di Gallo lo stesso Pulci che esterna, anche se 
indirettamente, il proprio dolore. Considerate infine le implicazioni che 
l’imitazione della figura di Gallo comporta, la Jordan dubita persino che il Pulci 
sperasse di poter “accomplish by pastoral what had eluded him in epic-romance”. 


Pisoni, Pier Giacomo. “Luigi Pulci alla Cavallina: Agosto del 
‘74”, Rinascimento s. Il, XXIV (1984): 149-52. 

Riproduce il testo della lettera, precedentemente inedita, che Luigi Pulci invid 
dalla Cavallina a Lorenzo de’ Medici in data 11 agosto 1474. In essa il Pulci 
accenna ad un suo prossimo viaggio a Bologna e ritorna sulla vecchia questione 
del beneficio di Cintoia. Quasi al termine della stessa, lo scrivente comunica di 
aver fatto una buona vihuola et bella; cosa che, nota il Pisoni, “permette di 
pensare al Pulci come ad un appassionato di liuteria”. 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 237 


Pulci, Luigi. J] Morgante. A c. di G. Fatini. Torino: UTET, 
1984. 
Ristampa, in 2 voll. dell’edizione UTET del 1948. 


Pulci, Luigi. Morgante e lettere. A c. di Domenico De Robertis. 
Firenze: Sansoni, 1984. 
Ristampa, con modifiche riguardanti principalmente il testo delle Lettere, 
dell’edizione Sansoni del 1962. 


Rati, Giancarlo. “Luigi Pulci e la critica (1944-1984)”. Cultura 
e scuola XXIII 91 (Luglio-Sttembre 1984): 7-24. 

Partendo dal fondamentale studio di Giovanni Getto (1944) sulla lingua del 
Morgante, il Rati, ricordato l’apporto senza dubbio determinante delle ricerche 
critico-filologiche dell’ Ageno culminate nell’edizione Ricciardi del Morgante 
(1955), riconosce al De Robertis il merito di aver illustrato, tramite un 
sistematico e accurato raffronto fra i primi 23 cantari del poema pulciano e il 
testo dell’ Orlando (Storia del “Morgante”, 1958), la natura dell’arte del Pulci nel 
suo divenire e definirsi. Notevole pure il saggio del Ceserani “L’allegra fantasia 
del Pulci e il rifacimento dell’Orlando”(1958) che, diretto anch’esso ad 
investigare i rapporti di lingua e di stile fra il poema pulciano e l’Orlando, 
evidenzia la indubbia superiorita sintattica, lessicale e metrica del poeta 
fiorentino. 

Il pubblico del Morgante, individuato dal De Robertis nei membri della 
brigata fiorentina, frequentatori con il Pulci del palazzo di via Larga, diviene 
invece per Angelo Gianni il popolo fiorentino (Pulci uno e due, 1967). Il 
Gianni, assertore di una maggiore aderenza del Pulci al gusto narrativo dei 
canterini, esclude inoltre che sussista nel Morgante “sia un intento di irrisione 
nei confronti della materia dei cantari, sia l’atteggiamento di distaccata 
“condiscendenza’ proprio di tanti componimenti popolareggianti della corte 
medicea”’. 

Il pit recente Pulci medievale (1978) di Paolo Orvieto, che il Rati definisce 
“una decisiva stimolante ripresa d’interesse per la realta tutta letteraria del 
Morgante”, ha come scopo precipuo quello di dimostrare la matrice medievale del 
capolavoro pulciano e di mettere a fuoco, rivedendo il rapporto con l’Orlando, le 
“non poche interferenze” esistenti fra quest’opera e i poemi cavallereschi 
contemporanei. Il Rati considera “suggestive”, benché “tutte da verificare”, sia le 
interpretazioni allegoriche dell’ Orvieto nei riguardi di Margutte, di Morgante e di 
altri personaggi del poema, sia la “lettura in chiave allegorico-polemica” degli 
ultimi cinque cantari del Morgante. Per 1’Orvieto, infatti, una corretta lettura di 
questi canti implica una distinzione precisa fra il materiale composto dal Pulci 
prima della sua polemica col Ficino e quello scritto 0 cambiato successivamente. 
Sono appunto questi cambiamenti di natura allegorico-polemica che renderebbero 


238 Edoardo Lébano 


possibile una “lettura enigmatica” dei suddetti canti dove il poeta nasconde 
“dietro il re Marsilio . . . il Ficino e dietro a Orlando, . . . a tratti, se stesso.” 

Nella seconda parte della sua rassegna il Rati osserva che il 1474 é l’anno in 
cui ebbe inizio la crisi del “magistero letterario” che il Pulci, grazie anche alle 
sue opere minori, esercitava sin dal 1461 a Firenze. Tale crisi fu appunto causata 
dalla disputa del poeta col prete Matteo Franco e, in misura di gran lunga 
maggiore, dall’aspra polemica del Pulci col Ficino, a proposito della quale il 
critico riporta l’interpretazione offerta dall’Orvieto nel suo articolo “Uno scandalo 
del ’400: Luigi Pulci ed i sonetti di parodia religiosa”. (Annali di Italianistica, 
1983). 

Menzionati gli studiosi che si sono occupati della controversa questione 
della religiosité del Pulci, il Rati condivide l’opinione del Ceserani per il quale 
“V’unica cosa accertabile . . . é l’opinione che i.contemporanei ebbero della. . . 
ortodossia” del poeta. (“Studi sul Pulci”, 1969). A proposito poi degli ultimi 
cinque cantari del Morgante (composti, secondo alcuni, su esortazione di Lucrezia 
Tornabuoni, per celebrare le imprese di Carlo Magno a favore della fede), il Rati, 
dopo aver ricordato la tesi del Carrai secondo la quale “la tragedia di Roncisvalle 
rappresenta in figura il giudizio universale” (Rinascimento, XVIII, 1978, 3-58), 
conclude la sua rassegna riaffermando la necessita sia dell’ulteriore 
approfondimento di vari aspetti della personalita del Pulci e della cultura della 
Firenze medicea, sia di una precisa definizione “delle opere e delle sezioni di 
opere sicuramente” del Pulci. 


Ruggieri, Ruggero M. “Affinita di tematiche e di personaggi tra 
il Milione e il Morgante”. Symposium in honorem Prof. M. de 
Riquer. Universitat de Barcelona, Quaderns Crema, 1984. 349- 
62. 

Propone che sia possibile stabilire un parallelo fra J] Milione e il Morgante, 
opere il cui nucleo principale é la lotta contro I’Islamismo, nemico e dei cristiani 
e dei mongoli. In esse, benché distanti e diverse, il critico rinviene, 
documentandole, coincidenze e convergenze “non certo vistose ma multiple e in 
vari casi concordi e unificanti”. L’importanza che le citta di Babilonia e di Bagdad 
in quanto grandi centri della religione mussulmana hanno in entramb1 i testi e, in 
particolare, i punti di contatto che si possono rinvenire ne // Milione e nel 
Morgante riguardo alcuni personaggi maschili (il Veglio della Montagna, il Prete 
Gianni, Can di Gattaia) e femminili (Antea, Chiariella, Aigiaruc), inducono il 
Ruggieri a riconoscere nel capolavoro pulciano “una sua misteriosa e sottile 
(anche se talvolta nebulosa) atmosfera euro-asiatica”. 


Tusiani, Joseph. “From Pulci’s Morgante”. Forward A. N. 
Mancini. Forum Italicum 18, 1 (Spring 1984): 117-60. 

Stimato poeta e autorevole traduttore del Boccaccio, del Tasso, di Michelangelo e 
di vari altri poeti da Dante a Marinetti, il Tusiani presenta, in occasione del 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 239 


500mo anniversario della morte del Pulci, la prima traduzione inglese dei canti V 
e VII del Morgante. Nella prefazione Albert Mancini, notato lo scarso interesse 
degli studiosi di lingua inglese per il capolavoro pulciano, auspica che la 
completa versione inglese del Morgante, intrapresa da qualche tempo dal Tusiani, 
contribuisca a rendere “this interesting and crucial text available to a large 
English-reading public and invite the now more easy comparison with other 
great epics of the Renaissance”. 


Vassallo, Peter. Byron. The Italian Literary Influence. New 
York: St. Martin’s Press, 1984. 

La questione del debito letterario del Byron nei riguardi del Pulci € affrontata per 
esteso alle pagine 140-65, dopo che il Vassallo, esaminata |’influenza di Dante, 
sostiene che il Byron ha derivato la nuova tecnica satirica che anima le 
ottantaquattro ottave del Beppo, non tanto dal Berni e dal Pulci, come molti 
ritengono, quanto dalle Novelle galanti di Giambattista Cast. 

Ricordato che Milton aveva classificato il Morgante fra le opere comiche, se 
non proprio “scurrilous”, lo studioso nota che l’interesse del Byron per il Pulci 
puo essere fatto risalire all’Orlando in Roncesvalle, che John Herman Merivale 
aveva adattato dal Morgante e, in maggior misura, alla lettura di Mr Whistlecraft 
di John Hookahm Frere (i cui modelli erano stati il Berni e il Pulci) e, 
conseguentemente, a quella dell’ Histoire littérarie d’Italie del Ginguené. 

L’atteggiamento non facilmente definibile del Byron nei riguardi del Pulci 
spinge il Vassallo a ricercare i motivi che indussero il poeta inglese a tradurre il 
primo cantare del Morgante, mentr’egli stava componendo il III e il IV canto del 
Don Juan. Riconosciuto che l’intenso lavoro di traduzione intrapreso dal Byron 
nel tentativo di rendere lo spirito dell’originale “helped to stimulate his creative 
faculties at a period when he felt barren of inspiration”, il critico ritiene che la 
ragione della scelta del Pulci é da ricercarsi nella frase del Byron secondo la quale 
il Morgante “has been the original of some of the most celebrated productions on 
this side of the Alps, as well as those recent experiments in England”. 

Esaminata a confronto con il testo originale, la versione del Byron appare 
vicinissima al gusto del Pulci in quanto il poeta inglese sarebbe riuscito a 
trasfondere in essa “the Pulcian fluctuations of tone and tempo which have 
baffled so many of his readers.” 

Il Vassallo infine rintraccia e documenta 1’ influenza del Pulci — fatto sinora 
ignorato dalla critica — anche ne The Vision of Judgement, iniziato dal Byron 
un anno dopo l’invio della sua traduzione del Morgante a John Murray. I brani 
citati dal critico documenterebbero infatti che il “Pulci exercised a powerful hold 
on Byron’s imagination during the composition of The Vision of Judgement, 
particularly in the humorous treatment of the delicate theme of eternal judgement 
and damnation”. Se é vero che 1’influenza diretta del poeta fiorentino si riscontra 
nella comica descrizione che il Byron fa di San Pietro (Morgante, XXV, 91), non 
meno profonda, anche se meno ovvia, é |’influenza pulciana nella delineazione 


240 Edoardo Lébano 


del carattere di Satana, che rivela strette affinita con 1’ Astarotte del Pulci. 

A conclusione del suo studio il Vassallo scrive: “It was above all Pulci’s 
serio-comic style - with its intricate blending of chiaroscuro effects on the canvas 
of life - that Byron found so congenial in his crusade against the moral cant of 
the day”. 


1985 

Carrai Stefano. Le muse dei Pulci: studi su Luca e Luigi Pulci. 
Napoli: Guida, 1985. 

Come lo stesso Carrai nota nell’introduzione, sette dei dieci capitoli de Le muse 
dei Pulci ripropongono, con poche aggiunte, la maggior parte delle quali di 
natura bibliografica, sette saggi pubblicati fra il 1978 e il 1985 in Rinascimento 
e Interpres. Di questi, il primo tratta della datazione della prima pistola di Luca 
Pulci; il quarto contiene |’edizione ed il commento della novella del “besso” 
senese, che il Carrai fa risalire ai primi mesi del 1471; il quinto riesamina l’aspra 
disputa del Pulci con Matteo Franco precisandone le date; il sesto presenta, 
corredate di un ampio commento, due poesie inedite di Luigi Pulci tratte da un 
codice della Biblioteca Comunale di Arezzo; l’ottavo, intitolato “Il giudizio 
universale nel Morgante”, evidenzia la caratterizzazione allegorica degli ultimi 
cantari del poema; il nono colloca la composizione della Confessione di Luigi 
nel periodo febbraio 1483-agosto 1484, formulando l’ipotesi che nel 
“Cherubino” menzionato in questo poemetto in terzine si possa individuare il 
Savonarola; e il decimo in cui il critico, in uno dei personaggi ritratti 
nell’Approvazione della regola di San Francesco del Ghirlandaio, identifica non 
Luigi Pulci, bensi Bernardo Michelozzi. 

Del tutto inediti, invece, 1 saggi che costituiscono il secondo capitolo, dal 
titolo “Imitazione e reminiscenze ovidiane nelle Pistole di Luca”; il terzo, che 
riproduce il testo annotato dell’inedito prontuario mitologico del Pulci; e il 
settimo, in cui la figura di Morgante viene riallacciata al mito di Ercole. 

Le muse dei Pulci é stato oggetto di ampie e particolareggiate recensioni, fra 
le quali desideriamo ricordare quelle, decisamente positive, di R. Ballerini — 
Studi e problemi di critica testuale 33 (ottobre 1986): 191-201 —, di M. Chiesa 
— “Rassegna bibliografica”. Giornale storico della letteratura italiana CLXIV, 
525 (1987): 112-19 — e di G. Ponte — Rassegna della letteratura italiana 92, 1 
(1988): 159-61. Pill circospetto, invece, il giudizio di Walter Stephens del 
Darmouth College — Renaissance Quarterly 41, 4 (1988): 737-39. Dopo aver 
dichiarato che i tre capitoli inediti del libro “are not important enough in 
themselves to justify rote republication of the other essays”, il critico americano 
accoglie invece con favore la ristampa del saggio riprodotto nell’ ottavo capitolo, 
anche se reputa un po’ esagerato il significato dei paralleli fra Orlando e Cristo 
nel Morgante. Lo Stephens, che non apprezza |’ipotesi iconografica del Carrai 
ritenendola in essenza “an otiose re-refutation” dell’identificazione inizialmente 
proposta da Aby Warburg, conclude la sua breve recensione esprimendo la 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 241 


speranza che lo studioso italiano continui la sua attivita di curatore e 
commentatore delle opere dei fratelli Pulci. 


Davie, Mark. “Biography and Romance: The Vita Caroli Magni 
of Donato Acciaioli and Luigi Pulci’s Morgante”. The Spirit of 
the Court. Selected Proceedings of the Fourth Congress of the 
International Courtly Literature Society (Toronto 1983). A c. di 
G. S. Burgess and R. A. Taylor. Dover, NH: D. S. Brewer, 
1985. 137-52. 

Dopo aver rilevato le similarita concernenti la datazione e le circostanze della 
composizione della Vita Caroli Magni e del Morgante, il Davie afferma che 
1’ Acciaiuoli e il Pulci “were prompted to bring their particular literary genre . . . 
to bear on the figure of Charlemagne, in the hope of finding in him a theme 
which was relevant to the contemporary political and diplomatic situation”. 

Subito dopo, il critico nota che nel trattato dell’ Acciaiuoli esistono evidenti 
inconsistenze nella rappresentazione di Carlomagno, ora convenzionalmente 
ritratto quale sovrano saggio, pacifico e amato dai sudditi, ora pit realisticamente 
raffigurato quale eroe, perennemente in guerra per domare ribellioni e accrescere il 
suo potere. Cosciente di queste inconsistenze, 1’ Acciaiuoli cerca di giustificarle 
sostenendo che le continue campagne militari di Carlomagno erano necessarie per 
la difesa dei deboli, della Chiesa e del papato (ragione questa della seconda 
spedizione dell’imperatore in Italia, in occasione della quale avrebbe avuto luogo 
il suo leggendario intervento a favore di Firenze, ricordato dal Pulci). 

Mentre pero |’ Acciaiuoli, scrive il Davie, riesce a fornire un ritratto di 
Carlomagno in cui si concilia “the monarchist ideal of the Holy Roman Empire 
with the Florentines’ jealousy of their liberties”, il Pulci inizia a raccontare la 
vita del sovrano francese “in the terms prescribed by Lucrezia and announced in 
his opening stanzas” solo nell’ultima parte del poema, per di pit. composta 
“some twenty years after beginning the Morgante”. Per il Davie i primi indizi 
dell’intenzione riabilitatoria del Pulci si riscontrano nel canto XXIV, dapprima 
all’ottava 35, dove Carlomagno non é piu raffigurato come il vecchio 
“rimbambito” dei primi ventitré cantari, e poi alle ottave 128-129, in cui si 
afferma che le imprese del vecchio Carlo non sono state ancora adeguatamente 
celebrate. E solo nel cantare XXVIII, pero, che il Pulci, arrivato ormai al termine 
della sua opera e in risposta alle critiche che gli erano state fatte, cerca di 
rimediare ai danni che il suo non certo lusinghiero ritratto dell’imperatore aveva 
provocato. A riprova il Davie adduce i versi in cui il Pulci spiega la natura 
dell’amicizia di Carlomagno per Gano e, molto piu indicative, le ottave in cui, 
parafrasando dalla Vita dell’ Acciaiuoli, il poeta racconta per sommi capi la vita e 
le imprese del sovrano, finendo poi con l’accennare alla possibilita di cantarne 
piu meritevolmente le gesta in un’altra opera, il Ciriffo Calvaneo. Secondo il 
Davie, la prima e la seconda parte del Morgante riflettono il cambiamento 
verificatosi nella cultura della Firenze medicea durante il periodo che va dal 1465 


242 Edoardo Lébano 


al 1480 circa. Riferendosi specificatamente ai versi 5-8 dell’ottava 136, il critico, 
concludendo, afferma che nonostante “all his attempts at writing a serious 
historical epic in his second poem, he [Pulci] was right to reassert at the end that 
the good-natured giant Morgante was still his presiding genius”. 


Jonard, Norbert. “La Nature du comique dans le Morgante de 
Pulci”. Culture et société en Italie du Moyen-Age a la 
Renaissance. Hommage a André Rochon. Paris: Université de la 
Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1985. 83-101. 

Non convinto che gli studiosi che si sono occupati della questione della 
maggiore 0 minore serieta del Morgante siano riusciti a darci “une connaisance 
satisfaisante de Pulci” (le tesi da questi formulate o sostengono che il riso del 
poeta fiorentino nasce dalla satira degli ideali cavallereschi e umanistici oppure 
vedono in esso soltanto lo scopo di divertire), lo Jonard si propone di “tenter une 
synthése des differents traveaux pour suggérer quelques hypothéses de recherche”. 

Definito il riso “un phénoméne non seulement esthétique mais socio- 
historique”, il critico francese dichiara che per pervenire ad una pili adeguata 
interpretazione del Morgante bisogna collocare il capolavoro pulciano all’ interno 
di quella “culture comique qui, burgeoise dans son essence, populaire dans ses 
formes, va du Moyen Age a la Renaissance”. Dal momento che i cantari popolari 
— nei quali lo spirito di avventura appare prevalere sull’etica cavalleresca — 
riflettono il crescente declino della nobilta fiorentina, risulta difficile capire per 
quale motivo il Pulci avrebbe voluto operare la satira degli ideali cavallereschi 
cari ad una classe alla quale la borghesia aveva ormai tolto quasi ogni potere. 

Il confronto fra il poema del Pulci e l’Orlando dimostra che l’elemento 
comico, gia presente nel cantare popolare, acquista nel Morgante un ruolo 
talmente determinante da poterlo definire “la métaphore comique” dell’ Orlando. Il 
Pulci pero si servirebbe di questo testo per motivi puramente linguistici e non 
per fare la satira dei cantastorie. In polemica col Momigliano, lo Jonard sostiene 
inoltre che il riso del Pulci non deriva dalla natura dei suoi personaggi, 
considerati “fantoches sans consistance”, bensi dalle situazioni in cui essi sono 
ritratti e dalla lingua altamente pittoresca ed espressiva dell’ autore, “poéte qui 
joue sur et avec les mots”. 

Per lo Jonard l’uso sistematico che il Pulci fa dell’iperbole non é certo 
sufficiente a definire la natura della comicita del Morgante. A tale fine egli reputa 
necessario “quitter le domaine du vocabulaire proprement dit pour aborder celui de 
la thématique”. Il primo tema preso in esame é quello della gola che ha in 
Margutte il suo pit famoso esponente. Fra le tesi che sono state proposte a 
spiegazione dell’ episodio di Margutte, lo studioso francese concorda con quella di 
Salvatore Nigro che identifica nella figura del mezzo gigante “l’espressione di un 
naturalismo borghese godereccio e burlone”. Lo Joanard trova questa tesi “plus 
séduisante” anche perché si riallaccerebbe al “réalisme grotesque” delle feste 
carnevalesche medievali che proponevano la “transgression des toutes les régles 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 243 


et la liberation des toutes les contraintes.” 

Riguardo poi la mancata impiccagione di Astolfo, lo Jonard accetta 
l’opinione del Ceserani per il quale in quest’episodio il tema della Via Crucis, 
sostenuto dal De Robertis, si intreccerebbe con quello della forca, caro al Pulci. 
Per il critico, risulta ad ogni modo difficile non vedere, nel cosiddetto calvario di 
Astolfo, “une adaptation parodique d’un épisode de l’histoire sainte”. Secondo lo 
Jonard, sarebbe errato prendere seriamente sia l’amore di Forisena per Ulivieri sia 
quello di Ulivieri per Meridiana, episodi in cui il “travestissement parodique est . 
. . Sous-tendu par un anti-stilnovisme qui contribue a faire du burlesque un genre 
de réaction”. Lo stesso vale anche per gli amori di Rinaldo e di Antea, definiti un 
vero e prorio “pastiche” culturale dove “le sérieux du recit ne suppose pas le 
sérieux de l’auteur”. Nella stessa prospettiva dev’essere visto anche l’episodio di 
Florinetta, a proposito del quale il critico sostiene che il “Pulci n’est assurément 
pas le poéte de 1’amour. II n’en est, tous au plus, que le rhétoricien.” 

Sebbene reputi alquanto difficile determinare il significato del ruolo di 
Astorotte nel poema, lo Jonard appare nondimeno propenso a considerare la 
presenza del diavolo-teologo “dans un sens ironique” anziché ritenerla “un simple 
démarquage” delle teorie neoplatoniche ficiniane. 

Lo studioso francese conclude affermando che il Morgante @ solo 
“exceptionnellement” un poema satirico. La pia Lucrezia Tornabuoni non 
avrebbe certo affidato al Pulci il compito di ridicolizzare “l’idéal chevaleresque et 
l’esprit religieux qui le sous-tendait”. Dal momento che la satira si esercita solo 
“contre ce qui est actuel ou contre le vices éternels”, essa non pud evidentemente 
riversarsi nel Morgante “contre l’aristocratie guerriére représentée per le paladins 
de Charlemagne”, ormai fuori della storia, semmai “contre une rhétorique aussi 
vivante que le pétrarquisme, contre l’>humanisme contemporain ou contre les 
aspects les plus discutables de la religion”. In ultima analisi, si tratti di 
“humour” o di “ironie”, la comicita del poema pulciano é una realta che non pud 
essere messa in discussione. Essa si rivela infatti “par la pratique systématique de 
l’irrespect qui est la sagesse de la folie”. Dietro il Morgante si individua 
finalmente “‘la lieta brigata qui applaudit et affirme sa supériorité par le rire”. 


Larivaille, Paul. “Morgante da ‘fiero’ a ‘gentil gigante’: 
carnevalizzazzione della materia cavalleresca e  ricupero 
cavalleresco di tradizioni carnevalesche”. Culture et société en 
Italie du Moyen-Age a la Renaissance. Hommage a André 
Rochon. Paris: Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1985. 103- 
LS: 
In quella che il Larivaille precisa essere “una lettura del Morgante che non pud 
prescindere dal confronto con l’Orlando, ma senza implicazioni cronologiche di 
sorta”, il critico si propone di dimostrare la graduale trasformazione del Morgante 
pulciano da “fiero” a “gentil gigante.” 

Rilevata |’“affinita strutturale” fra il Morgante e l’Orlando, entrambi 


244 Edoardo Lébano 


organizzati secondo due “macrosequenze successive” il cui motore € sempre 
Gano, il critico individua nella “precoce” scomparsa di Morgante dal testo del 
canterino la “differenza pili macroscopica” che caratterizza questi due poemi. 
Nell’ Orlando, com’é noto, Morgante viene menzionato per l’ultima volta alla 
stanza 5 del cantare XVII, corrispondente in parte alla materia trattata nel cantare 
X del Morgante. 

Nell’esaminare la figura e l’indole di Morgante il critico sottolinea che la 
sua decisione di farsi cristiano non avviene, come d’uso, in seguito ad uno 
scontro da lui combattuto e perso. L’iniziale conversione dell’ invitto gigante é 
quindi considerata un importante “accorgimento” mediante il quale il Pulci, 
sottraendo Morgante “alla necessaria superiorita dei campioni cristiani, 
moltiplica le possibilita di azione del gigante, restituendogli la forza invincibile 
del gigante della tradizione medievale”. 

Noi possiamo anche sottoscrivere a questa interpretazione; tuttavia ci pare 
che il Larivaille, essendo la conversione di Morgante nell’Orlando provocata dalla 
stessa visione avuta dal Morgante pulciano, avrebbe dovuto chiarire se anche nel 
caso della conversione del Morgante del canterino sia lecito parlare di un 
cosciente “‘accorgimento” del poeta. 

La meraviglia che Morgante causa su tutti ogni qual volta egli si presenta 
sulla scena del poema é, secondo il critico, dovuta alla sua invincibilita; per 
questo motivo le sue iperboliche prodezze sono causa pil di stupore che di riso. 
Se @ vero che la morte di Morgante, causata dal morso di un granchiolino, non 
puo non apparire ridicola, é altrettanto vero che essa “é tutt’altro che comica e 
non intacca il suo ormai confermato titanismo”. Per il Larivaille infatti “Comico 
. .. pud essere lo spettacolo offerto dalla fantasia e dall’estro narrativo del Pulci, 
non la vicenda e la fine di Morgante in sé, non la filosofia della vita che la 
sorregge e ne deriva: percié anche il riso spontaneo che la scena pud provocare 
nel pubblico é destinato a sfumare presto nell’amarezza”. 

Negli ultimi cantari della seconda macrosequenza del capolavoro pulciano — 
ed é questa la parte centrale del saggio — il Larivaille vede delinearsi nel carattere 
di Morgante “una dimensione prettamente cavalleresca” — del tutto assente nel 
gigante dell’Orlando — grazie alla quale il Pulci riesce ad “elevare il suo 
Morgante alla condizione di paladino”. I] gigante del Pulci, precedentemente 
ritratto quale cortigiano di Carlomagno a Parigi, e quindi come “cavalier 
servente” e protettore di Meridiana, acquista in questa parte del poema “lo statuto 
di un vero paladino”. Un/’attenta lettura dell’episodio dell’incontro di Morgante e 
di Margutte con Florinetta e del loro breve viaggio insieme permette al critico di 
rilevare nel comportamento di Morgante nei riguardi dell’infelice giovane “una 
serie ridondante di conferme della definitiva trasformazione di Morgante in 
perfetto cavaliere”. 

Il Larivaille non manca infine di osservare che nel Morgante pulciano 
convivono, insieme ai sentimenti di delicatezza e cortesia dimostrati dal gigante 
in quest’ultima parte del poema, “eccessi di un barbaro furore”. I difetti e gli 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 245 


_ eccessi di Morgante non sono pero “caratteristiche peculiari dei giganti”, ma si 


riscontrano in notevole misura anche nei paladini e particolarmente in Orlando e 


_ Rinaldo; “nell’atmosfera di allegra violenza verbale e gestuale in cui bagna 


_ Pintero poema” — precisa infatti il critico — “la differenza fra Morgante e un 


Orlando o un Rinaldo non é differenza di natura, ma solo di gradi: una differenza 
che per lo pit scaturisce . . . dalla differenza di statura e di forza fra Morgante e i 


- paladini”. 


Pastore-Stocchi, Manlio. “Ritratto di Luigi Pulci. Ricordo nel V 
Centenario della sua morte a Padova”. Atti e Memorie 


_ delV’Accademia Patavina di Scienze, Lettere e Arti. XCVII (1984- 


85) III: 23-42. 
Di questo articolo non é stato possibile ottenere copia. 


Tavernati, Andrea. “Appunti sulla diffusione quattrocentesca de 
Il Driadeo di Luca Pulci’. La Bibliografia 87, 3 (1985): 267-79. 
Di questo articolo non é stato possibile ottenere copia. 


1986 

Boni, Marco. “A proposito di un personaggio del Morgante 
(‘Dodone, il Figliuol del Danese’)”. Atti della Accademia delle 
Scienze dell’Istituto di Bologna. Rendiconti. Vol. LXXIII (1984- 
85). Bologna: Tipografia Compositori, 1986. 97-113. 

Riconosciuto a Dodone un ruolo di “notevole rilievo” fra i cavalieri cristiani del 
Morgante e data per scontata la sua derivazione dall’ Orlando, il Boni si propone 
di rintracciare l’opera nella quale Dodone, non certo “invenzione” dell’anonimo 
canterino, appare per la prima volta come fratello di Baldovino e secondo figlio 
di Uggieri il Danese. In tal modo il critico spera di chiarire un “piccolo 
problema” sino ad oggi trascurato da tutti coloro che hanno studiato le fonti 
dell’ Orlando e del Morganite. 

Dalle esaustive ricerche condotte dal Boni sui pit antichi testi francesi e sui 
loro rimaneggiamenti successivi, sia in versi che in prosa, risulta che al Danese 
viene generalmente attribuito soltanto un figlio (Baudouinet, Baudouin o 
Bauduyns). Nei testi in cui, oltre a Baudouin o Balduinet, gli viene riconosciuto 
un secondo figlio, questi si chiama Meurvin, Murmunin o Buevon, e non 
Dodone. 

Come non si fa menzione di Dodone nei cantari franco-italiani, dove Uggieri 
o non ha figli o ne ha soltanto uno (Baldovino), cosi Dodone é assente in tutte le 
varie rielaborazioni della “materia di Spagna”. II nome di Dodone, invece, appare 
per la prima volta nel codice di Bergamo e nella seconda parte del poema 
stampato col titolo di Ugieri il Danese. Il Boni non crede pero che queste siano 
le fonti pid antiche in quanto esse rivelano “‘l’intervento di tardi rimaneggiatori”. 

Molto pil importante € invece il manoscritto, catalogato col titolo di 


246 Edoardo Lébano 


“Additional 10808”, conservato presso il British Museum di Londra. La prima 
parte di questo manoscritto contiene l’Aspromonte, opera in prosa di anonimo — 
che il critico definisce “sicuramente il pit antico degli Aspromonti italiani” e che 
fa risalire agli ultimi anni del Trecento 0 ai primissimi del secolo successivo — 
in cui Dodone viene menzionato quale secondo figlio del Danese, accanto al 
fratello Baldovino. Ancora piu ricca di informazioni é la seconda parte dello 
stesso manoscritto che incorpora per mano di un copista d’epoca posteriore la 
trascrizione di un romanzo cavalleresco anch’esso di anonimo. E qui appunto che 
Dodone, presentato quale uno dei protagonisti della storia, combatte con un 
grosso bastone (particolare da cui, nota il Boni, gli derivera nell’Orlando e nel 
Morgante il soprannome di “Dodone della mazza”) insieme a Carlo, Orlando, 
Rinaldo, Uggieri e Ulivieri. 

Al termine della sua erudita e interessante ricerca, il Boni formula |’ipotesi 
che tanto l’autore dell’Aspromonte quanto quello del romanzo contenuto nella 
seconda parte del manoscritto londinese, si siano ispirati entrambi ad un racconto 
anteriore “riguardante varie avventure di Dodone”, scritto verso la fine del XIV 
secolo. Il Boni é dell’opinione che questo poema o romanzo fu indubbiamente 
composto da un italiano che per dare “alla storia da lui narrata una certa 
originalita, ebbe l’idea di attribuire a Uggieri il Danese un secondo figlio, 
seguendo la consuetudine, ormai tradizionale nella narrativa cavalleresca pit 
tarda, di ‘inventare’ figli o altri parenti degli eroi pit famosi, per farne i 
protagonisti di nuovi racconti”. Come fonte per il personaggio di Dodone, 
l’anonimo autore dell’Orlando si sarebbe quindi servito di quest’opera che il 
critico auspica possa essere un giorno rinvenuta “nei fondi inesplorati 0 poco 
noti di qualche biblioteca”. 


Gareffi, Andrea. L’ombra dell’eroe. Il Morgante. Urbino: 
QuattroVenti, 1986. 

Nelle prime pagine di questo breve studio monografico, il Gareffi, sulle orme del 
De Robertis, sostiene che bisogna “leggere il Morgante con |’occhio attento alla 
retorica delle immagini che lo sostanziano”. 

Considerando “solo provocatoria e non sostenibile per ragioni meramente 
stilistiche” l’ipotesi del possibile capovolgimento del rapporto Orlando/Morgante 
proposta dall’Orvieto, il critico lascia ai filologi il compito di risolvere la 
spinosa questione delle fonti del poema puiciano per occuparsi invece “della 
parodia che nel Morgante prende corpo”. 

Nella prima meta del saggio (pp. 7-27), l’autore, propostosi di dimostrare 
che “le ottave di inizio di ciascuno dei cantari del Morgante testimoniano di come 
lo stravolgimento parodico del mondo cavalleresco vada di conserva con lo 
stravolgimento altrettanto parodico della tradizione religiosa”, esamina le 
invocazioni di apertura dei cantari del poema, sottolineando che, dal cantare XIII 
in poi, predomina in esse la riscrittura parodica di passi evangelici e di salmi. 

Nella seconda e pili interessante parte del saggio (pp. 27-54), il Gareffi 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 247 


giustamente rileva che il poema del Pulci segna la caduta del mito dell’eroe 
rappresentato dalla tradizione quale difensore della fede e custode di ogni virtu 
morale e spirituale. Analizzando nei cantari XVIII e XIX la figura e il ruolo di 
Margutte, lo studioso definisce il mezzo gigante del Pulci “la contraddizione 
vivente dell’ideale eroico come ideale dell’io” e osserva, concludendo, che la 
“novita di Pulci sta nel non criminalizzare Margutte, nel non moralizzare la sua 
figura, nel non demonizzare il suo comportamento, e, anzi, nel rendercelo 
simpatico, congeniale, fino al punto di far essere sé e il lettore complici delle 
malefatte del suo personaggio”. 


Jordan, Constance. “The Narrative Form of Pulci’s Morgante”. 
Studies in Philology 83, 3 (Summer 1986): 303-29. 

Questo articolo é in gran parte incorporato nel primo capitolo del libro della 
Jordan, Pulci’s ‘Morgante’ : Poetry and History in Fiftheenth-Century Florence. 


Jordan, Constance. Pulci’s Morgante: Poetry and History in 
Fifteenth-Century Florence. Folger Books. Washington: The 
Folger Shakespeare Library. London: Associated University 
Presses, 1986. 

Nella prefazione |’autrice afferma di voler considerare il capolavoro pulciano “as a 
narrative and to focus on its complex structure, its use of perspective as both a 
formal principle and a figure of thought, and its representation of the poet as 
historian” (11). 

A questa dichiarazione programmatica si affianca la tesi enunciata a priori, 
ma poi non convincentemente provata, per cui il Morgante costituirebbe “the 
most fundamental exercise of the historicist imagination” (9). Secondo la Jordan, 
V’opera del poeta fiorentino “by perspectivizing the history of Carlo . 
establishes the fact of its own historical contingency. It reveals that what is 
known of the past, as history, is discovered not as some glimpse of a bygone 
time but rather as the product of a continuous process of re-vision” (48). 

Nel corso dei capitoli seguenti questa intenzionalita iniziale trova ulteriori 
articolazioni, espresse in frasi come quella che leggiamo a pagina 53: “In each 
adventure the apparently external enemy embodies or exemplifies a moral 
weakness that actually afflicts the paladin confronting it. The adventures are 
therefore allegories of chivalric education and serve as tests to strengthen moral 
virtue; their successful completion guarantees moral regeneration”. 
All’esemplarita morale di queste avventure si associa il loro valore sociale dal 
momento che la fusione nel Morgante “of the narrative forms of history and 
romance, or chronicle and story, is matched by a corresponding mingling of 
conceptions of the social order” (67). Le prime avventure incarnano virtu 
complementari per i cavalieri, quali fede o umilta per le creature di Dio; quindi, 
ordine sociale e storia cristiana; ragione e temperanza. Ne consegue che “the 
paladins participate in history because (or in sofar as) they have the perfected 


248 Edoardo Lébano 


moral characters that appear in allegorized myth” (112). Per la Jordan il Pulci é 
percio “a brilliant allegorist”. 

Dalla convinzione che nella prima parte del Morgante il Pulci si limiti a 
illustrare “the chivalric virtue of the Emperor’s paladins” (125), l’autrice passa 
disinvoltamente a postulare che “the entire story of Orlando’s martyrdom is also 
understood at a typological level as a repetition of the Passion, an interpretation 
additionally supported by the references to Gano as Judas that rapidly multiply in 
cantos 25 and on” (127). E Orlando trionfa perché soffre da martire cristiano; il 
paladino che si avvia alla volta di Roncisvalle non é soltanto l’immagine della 
devozione cristiana, ma rappresenta anche la devozione umanistica per la 
conoscenza pura. 

Con l’arrivo di Malagigi sulla scena, pero, si attua una “inversion of 
rhetorical and moral values” (135) e il poeta “can then assume the character of a 
magician and represent his work as a conjuration of an artificial or magical 
reality that is wholly indistinguishable from reality itself. And in fact it is in the 
activities of Malagigi that Pulci at first represents the work of an infallible poet” 
(131-32). Questo mutamento di percezione del Pulci riguardo il compito del 
poeta porta la Jordan a ri-interpretare il ruolo di Morgante e di Margutte nei canti 
XVIII e XIX del poema, dove il gigante rappresenta le funzioni artistiche della 
invention, mentre il comportamento furbesco di Margutte non pud non 
significare l’abilita retorica: “Margutte is in short a kind of parasite artist, his 
activities limited to the witty manipulation of appearances” (135). 

Leggendo il saggio della Jordan si ha sempre pit |’impressione che il testo 
del Morgante venga manipolato al fine di poter giustificare idee e tesi 
preconcette. Il problema inerente a questo tipo di approccio é aggravato dalla 
mancata consultazione di studi fondamentali che avrebbero potuto prevenire errori 
d’interpretazione sia di natura culturale che critica. L’autrice avrebbe certo potuto 
rinforzare le sue tesi su Orlando citando June McCash, Julian White e Janet 
Boatner.! Altri gravi errori sarebbero stati evitati se le opere citate fossero state 
piu attentamente lette. 

Anche tralasciando di notare grossolani errori d’ortografia come Merediana 
ripetuto in tutto il libro, Pulci’s Morgante & pieno di errori di traduzione che 
danno talvolta adito a incorrette interpretazioni del testo italiano e mettono 
seriamente in dubbio la competenza linguistica della studiosa. Ci limitiamo a 
riportarne alcuni: l’espressione in bando é resa con “in chains” (28); la frase della 


1 June Hall Martin McCash, “‘Scientia’ and ‘Sapientia’ in the Chanson de Roland", Medievalia et 
Humanistica, n.s. 11 (1982), 131-47, dove viene messa a fuoco una ‘certa logica del martirio’ nel 
paladino; Julian Eugene White, “La Chanson de Roland: Secular or Religious Inspiration?” 
Romania 84 (1963): 398-408, in cui si sostiene che la morte di Roland rivela il valore della 
penitenza e che la cristianita unifica il poema; Janet W.Boatner, “The Misunderstood Ordeal. A 
Re-examination of the Chanson de Roland”, Studies in Philology 66 (1969): 571-83, che definisce 
la morte di Roland una penitenza simbolica. 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 249 


lettera del Pulci al Magnifico Vero é che il mio Bernardo é stato di latte, perché 
io gli dixi e scripsi della Marca 6 volte, & tradotta “It’s true my Bernardo is made 
of milk, for I told him and wrote him on March 6th” (30); i canestretti delle 
ninfe (XXV, 117, 4) diventano strumenti musicali, “little pipes” (145); 
decisamente originale (si fa per dire) é la versione della frase della lettera di 
Matteo Franco Gigi é animella delle vostre palle, “Gigi is a little animal of your 
mattress” (nota 56, 186); la quale é apparecchiata, usata con riferimento alla 
grazia divina, diviene “which is apparent” (nota 13, 194); la parola cappone 
(XVIII, 115, 2) — scritta tuttavia caponne — diviene “fish” (110), cosi come la 
frase i negromanti rade volte & tradotta, “frequently magicians” (133). 

Uno dei pit’ madornali errori di traduzione e di comprensione del Morgante 
ha luogo a pagina 111 dove la Jordan descrive il cappello a spicchi alla turchesca 
di Margutte (XVIII, 142, 2) come “a yellow hat resembling a cock’s comb 
crowned with sharp spurs”. Veramente nella ottava in questione di giallo ci sono 
soltanto gli stivaletti di Margutte, forniti di spron come hanno i galli (148, 7- 
8). Ma non é tutto. Sempre alla stessa pagina leggiamo che “Morgante steals 
Margutte’s hat while he sleeps and places it on the head of a monkey who lurks 
nearby. When Margutte wakes and sees the strange creature, he dies laughing, 
killed by the perception of his own simian character”. Questa errata versione dei 
fatti, che Etiemble definirebbe “une trahison créatrice”, € aggravata 
dall’immaginazione della Jordan per la quale “the action suggests the nature of 
the moral reform Morgante (and by extension Orlando) experiences by 
Margutte’s death”. 

Una certa mancanza di precisione nell’ esposizione dei fatti induce a chiederci 
se l’autrice abbia veramente letto tutto il poema o si sia servita di un qualche 
riassunto preparato da altri. Per esempio, a pagina SO il regno di Forisena, 
minacciato da un enorme serpente, non viene salvato soltanto da Rinaldo, ma 
anche da Ulivieri che uccide la terribile fiera; la corte di Carlomagno non é 
“restored to order by the paladins” ma dallo stesso Rinaldo che la minacciava; 
Chiariella, la cui terra é invasa dal Soldano, non é affatto “rescued by the 
paladins” bensi da Orlando che impedisce al gigante Corante di farla sua 
prigioniera; il “monster” che minaccia Filisetta é in vero il gigante predone 
Fuligatto; Gano viene catturato da Lionfante, amirante di Emireno, e non “by a 
witch”. Né tantomeno é accurato scrivere che Orlando e Morgante “deliver a 
palatial wasteland from a mysterious malady” (67) quando non di malattia si 
tratta ma dell’incanto dal quale Orlando e Morgante liberano il castello del cantare 
II; infine, nell’episodio di Astolfo e i ladroni (XXI, 83-92) non é il duca che 
“thangs the thieves” (117), ma i romiti persuasi dalle minacce di Astolfo. 

L’analisi narrativa annunciata nella prefazione soffre di uguale mancanza di 
precisione. Le sequenze elementari vengono ingarbugliate o sono addirittura 
erronee. Le convergenze dei ricorsi stilistici e contenutistici sono trascurate; si 
cercano invano gli stilemi portanti, le concatenazioni stilistiche, le cerniere 
narramatiche addotte per sostenere la tesi unitaria. Manca, insomma, 


250 Edoardo Lébano 


l’identificazione precisa di una costellazione lessicale 0 semantica. Si nota 
purtroppo una confusione ad arbitrio di livelli eterogenei di linguaggio e una 
scarsa attenzione al materiale narrativo autonomo. La Jordan stessa ammette i 
limiti evidenti del suo tentativo di identificare uno schema coerente ed unitario 
per la prima parte del Morgante quando afferma che “No reader of Part 1 can fail 
to notice how much that is important to its action I have left out” (56). Notiamo 
infatti che la centralita di Carlomagno nell’epica viene propugnata in base alla 
presenza dell’imperatore in circa 180 ottave su un totale di oltre 3750. Anche la 
tesi principale di un Pulci che “was in possession of all the elements with which 
to articulate the central concerns of historiography” (11) si fonda sulla base 
precaria che vorrebbe legare gli eventi principali alla vita dell’imperatore (48). 
Secondo la Jordan il poeta fiorentino “perceived himself as Carlo’s best 
historian” (126); questa affermazione, perd, non regge perché, come lei stessa 
scrive a pagina 46 discutendo il problema delle fonti del Morgante, il Pulci 
“made no major changes or interpolations”. 

La Jordan mostra di applicare le ultimissime teorie sulla testualita e 
intertestualita aggiungendo la sua interpretazione quale supplemento al testo 
originale. E le interpretazioni abbondano anche se il testo si oppone talvolta alla 
scoperta di nuovi significati dato che esso non puo significare qualcosa che non 
é, come I’ autrice stessa riconosce (178). Si pud quindi affermare (modificando un 
intervento del Barbi sul X dell’/nferno) che la Jordan riesce a suscitare fantasmi, a 
scoprire risonanze piu larghe di quelle che pensa il poeta, specie quando |’ autrice 
l’aiuta con ingegnosi e fantasiosi costrutti teorici, preesistenti allo svolgimento 
dell’analisi. Sembra quasi incredibile che un libro che vorrebbe mettere a fuoco 
“the struggle to formulate historiographic norms” (9) dia ben poco o nessun peso 
alle lunghe polemiche sulle relazioni fra poesia e storia durante il Rinascimento. 

Delle recensioni al libro della Jordan apparse negli Stati Uniti riteniamo 
opportuno ricordare quella, in generale favorevole, di Albert R. Ascoli — 
Renaissance Quarterly 41, 1 (1988): 148-51 — e quelle, decisamente negative, di 
Raymond A. Prier — Annali di Italianistica 8 (1990): 449-53 — e Walter 
Stephens — Comparative Literature 42, 3 (1990): 264-68. Al termine della sua 
estesa e oltremodo particolareggiata recensione, lo Stephens, dopo aver dichiarato 
che il Morgante della Jordan “could engender a Borgesian Babelic library of 
pseudo Pulci scholarship if trusting students, with little or not Italian, rely upon 
it heavily in comparative studies”, esprime la speranza che questo libro non sia 
“extensively reviewed in Italy”. 


Pulci, Luigi. Opere minori. A c. di P. Orvieto. Milano: Mursia, 
1986. 

Orvieto, Paolo. “In margine all’edizione e commento delle opere 
minori di Luigi Pulci’. Interpres VI (1986): 91-123. 

Ribadito il giudizio precedentemente espresso sulla Giostra nell’introduzione alla 
sua edizione delle opere minori del Pulci (pp. 58-59), 1’Orvieto, al fine di 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 251 


evidenziare le ‘“macroscopiche divergenze” fra i due testi, sottopone le stanze in 
cui @ descritta l’apparizione di Lorenzo de’ Medici e del suo seguito ad un 
“confronto diretto” con le corrispondenti pagine del Ricordo. 

Riaffermando in sostanza quanto gia scritto sulla datazione delle due frottole 
del Pulci (Opere minori, pp. 17-20), il critico precisa che nel 1471-72 Le galee 
per Quaracchi era conosciuta non solo a Firenze ma anche a Napoli. Egli 
sostiene inoltre che l’ipotesi cronologica del Volpi concernente la seconda 
frottola sia errata in quanto basata su una prova rivelatasi “inconsistente”. I due 
componimenti poetici sarebbero quindi stati scritti prima del 1478-80; piu 
precisamente, “nei primi mesi del 1466” /’ vo’ dire una frottola e probabilmente 
nella seconda meta del 1465 Le galee per Quaracchi (per la quale il critico 
ammette anche la possibilita di una datazione di qualche anno posteriore). 

A proposito poi del passo della lettera che il Pulci scrisse al Magnifico in 
data 27 aprile 1465 — passo che permette al Volpi di collocare in quello stesso 
anno la compilazione del Vocabulista — l’Orvieto, pur non escludendo che il 
brano in questione possa “effettivamente” riferirsi alle ricerche linguistiche del 
Pulci, riconosce che fra il Vocabulista e la canzone Da poi che '! lauro esiste 
“uno stretto rapporto di dipendenza”. Pur ammettendo la possibilita di aggiunte 
posteriori, il critico ritiene che nel periodo che va dal 25 aprile 1465 al 21 marzo 
1466 il Pulci “abbia raggruppato nel suo Vocabulista lemmi che forse gia da 
tempo aveva disordinatamente annotato”. 

Nell’ultima parte del suo articolo 1’Orvieto ripropone all’attenzione degli 
studiosi, corredati di note e del relativo apparato critico, i due sonetti “in lingua 
sanese” del Pulci. 


1987 

Boninger, Lorenz. “Notes on the Last Years of Luigi Pulci 
(1477-1484)”. Rinascimento: Rivista dell’Istituto Nazionale di 
Studi sul Rinascimento XXVIII (1987): 259-71. 

In queste note, concepite come semplici “additions” allo studio biografico del 
Volpi, il Boninger cerca di ricostruire, in base ad un attento esame della 
corrispondenza di Benedetto Dei, l’ultimo, pit triste periodo della vita dell’ autore 
del Morgante. Fra le lettere discusse quella che il Dei invid, nel marzo del 1481, 
al Pulci — ch’egli riteneva fosse ancora a Firenze, mentre il poeta era 
probabilmente gia in viaggio per Milano — onde sollecitarlo ad accettare 
l’incarico di capitano di Val di Lugana (sino ad allora occupato dal comune amico 
Piero Vespucci che pareva disposto a rinunciarvi). Secondo il Boninger, 1 
moderni biografi del Pulci “have been to quick to deny this possibility”. La 
corrispondenza del Dei farebbe infatti pensare che il Pulci si fosse effettivamente 
recato nel luganese con la speranza di ottenere un lavoro, anche se non 
essenzialmente quello di capitano di giustizia. Non solo, ma da una lettera che il 
poeta invio al Dei nell’estate dell’81 risulterebbe possibile che lo scrivente fosse 
alle dipendenze del Vespucci sin dal febbraio di quello stesso anno. Resta 


252 Edoardo Lébano 


comunque il fatto che, in una sua successiva epistola al Dei, scritta a Firenze il 
28 novembre 1481, il Pulci lamenta l’inutilité del suo viaggio a Milano e la 
mancata nomina a capitano di giustizia di Val di Lugana. 

Tomato a Firenze nell’autunno dell’81, il Pulci rimase in questa citta 
almeno sino alla primavera del 1483. Mentre mancano notizie precise sui suoi 
spostamenti nei mesi immediatamente successivi, pare ch’egli tentO ancora una 
volta, ma inutilmente, di trovarsi un impiego a Milano. E certo che nell’agosto 
del 1484 Pulci era a Bagnolo, vicino a Ferrara, con Roberto di Sanseverino. Da 
Ferrara, dove era arrivato probabilmente in compagnia del Dei, il poeta parti poi 
per Venezia al seguito del Sanseverino, mentre l’amico Dei prosegui per Milano. 
Luigi Pulci certamente mori poco dopo 1’8 settembre di quell’anno, giorno 
dell’entrata di Roberto di Sanseverino a Venezia. A questo proposito, mentre il 
Volpi pone la morte del poeta fra l’ottobre e il novembre del 1484, per il 
Boninger “September and early October 1484 is the only possible period”. 


Orvieto, Paolo. “Nota (e ammenda) a Luigi Pulci, ‘Da poi che ‘I 
lauro’, vv. 128-32”. Interpres VII (1987): 219-20. 

Riconoscendo errata |’ipotesi proposta a spiegazione dei vv. 128-32 della 
canzone Da poi che ‘I lauro, inclusa nella sua edizione delle opere minori del 
Pulci (Milano: Mursia, 1986, p. 49), l’ Orvieto dichiara che l’ombra in questione 
é “senza dubbio Piccarda Donati”. 


1988 


Ankli, Ruedi. “Tra la ‘geste’ e il triangolo amoroso (Aspetti di 
plurivocita nel cantare VII del Morgante”. Versants 13 (1988): 
67-85. 

In questo articolo, riprodotto con pochissime varianti alle pagine 214-31 del suo 
studio sull’iperbole nel Morgante (Firenze: Olschki, 1993), il giovane studioso 
svizzero analizza “‘alcuni aspetti della tecnica stilistica e narrativa del cantare 
VII”, in cui il Pulci assegna al suo gigante, come fara poi ai cantari X e XVIII- 
XX, un ruolo almeno di comprimario se non proprio di protagonista. 


Lepschy, Anna Laura. “‘In principio era il verbo’. I tempi nel 
primo cantare del ‘Morgante’”. Renaissance and Other Studies. 
Essays Presented to Peter M. Brown. A c. di E. A. Millar. 
Department of Italian, University of Glasgow, 1988. 74-93. 

Le 760 forme verbali finite contenute nelle 86 ottave del primo cantare del 
Morgante consentono di dividere il testo in due parti: “diegetica” (esposizione o 
racconto) e “mimetica” (discorso diretto). Mentre la sequenza dei verbi nei versi 
tratti dalla parte mimetica del cantare rivela dei contrasti, talora problematici, fra 
imperfetto e passato remoto, la sequenza verbale negli esempi della parte 
diegetica mette in luce non solo contrasti fra imperfetto e presente (e viceversa), 
ma anche “frequenti spostamenti” fra passato remoto e presente. Questi contrasti 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 253 


servono 0 a sottolineare un particolare stato d’animo, oppure a dar maggior 
rilievo ad un dato evento o personaggio. E inoltre alquanto probabile che, in 
alcuni casi, la scelta d’un determinato tempo sia stata imposta da esigenze di 
rima. 

Il breve confronto che la Lepschy fa a conclusione del suo studio fra la 
struttura del periodo nel primo canto del Furioso e nel primo cantare del 
Morgante conferma, cosa che certo non sorprende, la maggiore complessita del 
tessuto narrativo ariostesco. 


1989 

Ankli, Ruedi. “Eine Stelle aus Luigi Pulcis Morgante (XXII, 
215 -XXIII, 48) im Umfeld des ‘poema cavalleresco toscano’”. 
Die Ritterepik der Renaissance. Akten des Deutsch-Italienischen 
Kolloquiums, Berlin 30. 3 - 2. 4, 1987. Herausgegeben von K. 
W. Hempfer. Stuttgart: Franz Steiner Verlag, 1989. 123-43.2 
Posto che nell’arco di una generazione di ricercatori, gli studi intertestuali sul 
Morgante si sono esauriti con la ricerca delle fonti, l’infelice dogma del cosidetto 
Orlando permane come fonte maggiore del poema pulciano. Se il fondamentale 
studio del Dionisotti (del 1959) ha segnato un nuovo indirizzo per lo studio dei 
cantari, a Paolo Orvieto spetta il merito di aver proposto col suo Pulci medievale 
l’ipotesi di una “équipe” fiorentina elaboratrice, nel giro di pochi anni, di una 
certa mole di poemi cavallereschi. Mancandoci pero, a pil di trent’anni dalla 
pubblicazione del saggio del Dionisotti, la prova di un testo in ottava rima che 
tratti la materia carolingia prima del 1450, I’ Ankli ritiene sia cosa legittima 
domandarsi quali opere il Pulci avesse a portata di mano accingendosi a comporre 
il suo poema. Se non |’Orlando, quali altri testi poteva egli conoscere: La 
Spagna, La Rotta, Uggieri il Danese, Le storie di Rinaldo, L’ Entrée d' Espagne, 
qualche manoscritto o libro francese? Inoltre, quali sono i testi che nascono in 
concorrenza, 0 forse grazie al Morgante? 

Basandosi sull’ipotesi di una koiné di temi che costituiscono il genere del 
poema cavalleresco toscano, lo studioso svizzero propone uno studio delle 
componenti del Morgante che permettano un confronto con altri testi. Sono cosi 
attentamente studiate 93 ottave (dalla 215 del cantare XXII alla 48 del cantare 
XXIII) dove si racconta che Rinaldo, convertiti gli abitanti di Saliscaglia, lascia 
la citta al fine di liberare ai pellegrini la via del Santo Sepolcro. Scontratosi con 
Fuligatto, Rinaldo lo battezza e questi diviene suo compagno di avventure — fra 
le quali l’uccisione del centauro Spinardo e poi quella del gigante Pilagi 
d’Ulivante —fino al loro arrivo a un romitorio, dove i due sono sfamati da un 


2 In queste pagine riportiano, con alcune minori modifiche e qualche abbreviazione, la 
presentazione che 1’autore dell'articolo ha redatto in italiano e che ci ha cortesemente inviato onde 
essere inclusa in questa rassegna. 


254 Edoardo Lébano 


romita e da un angelo. 

Per prima cosa |’ Ankli osserva la presenza d’una coincidenza abbastanza 
sorprendente del Morgante non solo con la Spagna, ma anche con delle scene 
consimili nel Danese e negli altri testi presi in esame. Gli elementi salienti del 
paragone fra il poema del Pulci e la Spagna si trovano gia nella struttura 
natrativa di questo cantare in cui Orlando, convertito il popolo del Soldano, torna 
in Spagna accompagnato da Pilagi, figlio di Machidante, e da Sansonetto. Nel 
Morgante, Rinaldo si reca da solo al Santo Sepolcro, dopo aver fatto battezzare il 
popolo di Diliante. Gli fa poi da compagno Fuligatto. Dopo varie prove con 
giganti, mostri, leoni e serpenti — presenti in entrambi i testi — essi giungono 
a un romitorio. Mentre nella Spagna Orlando fa ritorno a Pamplona, nel 
Morgante Rinaldo e Fuligatto si perdono in Oriente al termine di una serie di 
avventure che non hanno seguito poiché solo nel cantare XXV Rinaldo e 
Ricciardetto saranno portati da Astorotte a Roncisvalle. 

Il confronto mette in rilievo ulteriori dettagli. Nella Spagna, Pilagi, che non 
riesce ad attraversare un fiume profondo perché ancora gli manca la fede, viene 
salvato da Orlando. In seguito i due incontrano un gigante “tutto coperto di 
coiame” con una “mazza pesante di piu di cento libbre” (XX, 40), il quale 
cadendo uccide Pilagi. Nel Morgante, Fuligatto propone a Rinaldo una 
scommessa per sapere chi segue la vera fede. Vince Rinaldo che battezza 
Fuligatto a una fonte. Riguardo al commento del Pulci (XXIII, 28, 2-8), il 
critico si domanda a quale testo il poeta si riferisca in quest’ ottava: alla scena del 
fiume nella Spagna (XX, 34-35) oppure a quella che si legge nel Danese (33v, 
XI, 44) dove Rinaldo uccide un messo di Gano a una fontana o all’altra scena in 
cui il paladino battezza qualcuno (38r, XIII, 3)? In questi poemi cavallereschi 
esiste senz’altro un motivo comune, ma niente esclude che tutti i testi a nostra 
disposizione si riferiscano al Morgante o ad un’altra fonte non pervenutaci. 

Continuando la sua analisi, |’Ankli ricorda che nel Morgante Rinaldo e 
Fuligatto incontrano il gigante Pilagi d’Ulivante, della cui schiatta si fa 
menzione anche nelle Storie di Rinaldo. Tuttavia, mentre nella Spagna questo 
nome € attribuito all’amico di Orlando, nel poema pulciano Pilagi é un gigante 
nemico di Rinaldo. Nella Spagna (XX, 40, 1-4) la descrizione del gigante che 
uccide Pilagi corrisponde invece a quella che il Pulci da di Fuligatto (XXII, 243, 
2-8). Le somiglianze fra i due testi non concernono soltanto il piano narrativo (il 
cuoio, la mazza, l’indicazione del peso), ma anche quello descrittivo. Quanto al 
nome di Pilagi, neanche la Spagna permette un paragone con |’Entrée, poiché il 
Pelias di questo cantare é nipote di Machidante, e non suo figlio, e gli amici che 
accompagnano Orlando si chiamano Sanson, Hugues e Aquilant. Mentre il 
Catalano pensa ad un testo intermedio tra la Spagna e |’Entrée, conosciuto anche 
dal Pulci, la mancanza di siffatto testo rende soltanto possibile comparare gli 
elementi dei due testi — Morgante e Spagna — forse familiari l’uno all’ altro. 

La scena degli affamati Rinaldo e Fuligatto al romitorio ci fornisce, secondo 
il critico, uno splendido esempio della tecnica pulciana di ripresa e di fusione di 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 233 


testi o motivi altrui nella sua “storia”. Nella Spagna anche Orlando é in cerca di 
cibo quando incontra il romito Sansone. Ma se nella Spagna (come nell’ Entrée) 
egli da loro da mangiare pane e mele (anche se in varianti molto divergenti, 
almeno per quanto riguarda le mele), l’eremita del Morgante non offre altro che 
pesci. Trattando di questi cibi, assunti, come sappiamo, a un valore sacrale, il 
Pulci compierebbe a questo punto un doppio gioco. Se é vero infatti che il pane 
e il pesce possono essere visti come simboli del corpo di Cristo, € anche 
possibile (si veda l’ottava 47 con i suoi bisticci), applicando la chiave suggerita 
da Jean Toscan ne Le carneval du language, interpretare i cibi in questione quali 
simboli dell’organo sessuale, femminile il primo, maschile il secondo. 

Nell’articolo dell’ Ankli sono rilevati anche altri punti di contatto: 1) mentre 
della scena della giostra con Bianca e Brunetta non si ha riscontro alcuno nella 
Spagna, detta scena é gia nel Perceval di Chrétien de Troyes (come aveva 
osservato il Rajna a proposito di un passaggio analogo nei manoscritti di 
Uggieri il Danese); 2) la statua di bronzo, che ricorda Orlando nel Morgante 
(XXII, 253), fa pensare ad un episodio della Spagna (XIV, 40) in cui si racconta 
che Orlando, lasciata Nobile, giunge ad una fonte circondata da quattro statue di 
marmo. Questa fonte, dovuta a Merlino, é attribuita nell’Entrée all’architetto 
arabo Clariel; 3) sembra invece legato alla Spagna un “dificio” magico che nella 
Ancroia (XVII, 7 ss.) si dice creato da Merlino per uno dei paladini di Carlo o di 
Arti; e 4) pill vicino al Morgante appare il testo del Danese (S6v, SVII, 63), 
dove Rinaldo combatte contro un cavaliere automatico di bronzo. 

Dal confronto risulta che vari elementi topici e narrativi si ripetono 
all’interno del poema cavalleresco in ottava rima. Se la statua di bronzo che 
ricorda Orlando pud essere un mero ricordo o una curiosita, il motivo della 
fontana — nella quale il neo-battezzato Fuligatto per poco non affoga — 
permette al Pulci di farsi beffe di un altro autore o di farne la parodia. Se non € 
possibile conoscere le vere fonti del Morgante, si pud nondimeno cercare di 
entrare nella fitta rete di topoi, immagini e nuclei narrativi del poema 
cavalleresco toscano. L’analisi delle 95 ottave presentata in questo articolo pud 
fornire un’ idea delle possibilita di collegare il poema pulciano ad altri testi, anche 
se questi non possono essere considerati come fonti vere e proprie. Ad ogni 
modo, questi testi, siano essi paralleli o addirittura posteriori al Morgante, 
rivelano quali erano i temi pit in voga all’epoca del Pulci. 

Secondo 1’Ankli, il suo studio rende sempre pit legittima l’ipotesi 
dell’“équipe” proposta dall’Orvieto. Il Pulci, egli ricorda, in una sua lettera del 
1470 comunica di aver |’intenzione di scrivere anche il Danese e il Rinaldo. Il 
Morgante dovrebbe quindi essere considerato come uno zibaldone di poemi e temi 
cavallereschi. Le due edizioni del poema in 23 e 28 cantari e l’esistenza di ben 
quattro testi pubblicati separatamente dal poema maggiore (Morgante e Margutte, 
Rotta di Babilonia, Regina Antea, Rotta di Roncisvalle) fanno pensare che il 
Morgante non sia stato scritto come un’opera unica, ma come un insieme di 
poemetti — e di scene — che forse originariamente erano autonomi. 


256 Edoardo Lébano 


Lo studio degli elementi topici e narrativi — conclude |’ Ankli — dovrebbe 
permettere di avvicinarsi sempre pit alla vera storia del poema cavalleresco 
toscano in ottava rima e di capire meglio |’importanza del Morgante al centro dei 
vari testi come la Spagna, |’ Orlando, il Danese, le Storie di Rinaldo e V Ancroia. 


Bessi, Rossella. “Il Morgante eil Liombruno”. Interpres IX 
(1989): 267-74. 

Nel noto episodio di Rinaldo e Ricciardetto, che partecipano invisibili alla mensa 
della regina Blanda a Saragozza (Morgante, XXV) e nella parte conclusiva del 
Liombruno, la Bessi identifica delle notevoli similarita. “L’ indubbia affinita del 
nucleo tematico” non permette, tuttavia, di riconoscere nel Liombruno “una 
fonte morgantiana” essendo la datazione di quest’ opera ancora in discussione. 


Davie, Mark. “Luigi Pulci’s Stanze per la Giostra: Verse and 
Prose Accounts of a Florentine Joust of 1469”. Italian Studies 
44 (1989): 41-58. 

Persuaso che la Giostra di Lorenzo de’ Medici “has been very little studied”, il 
critico sostiene che le 160 ottave del Pulci si impongono all’attenzione degli 
studiosi per tre motivi: perché la Giostra “provides the immediate and self- 
declared precedent for Poliziano’s Stanze;” perché fra il poemetto del Pulci e la 
versione in prosa esistono dei rapporti che fanno di quest’ultima il “point of 
departure” della Giostra; perché il raffronto fra il testo poetico e la sua fonte 
narrativa “provides a fresh insight” intorno alla tecnica poetica del Pulci, cosi 
come il confronto fra il Morgante e 1’ Orlando serve ad illustrare le superiori 
qualita artistiche del poeta fiorentino. 

Dall’esame dei due testi risulta che la parte descrittiva della Giostra rivela 
differenze sostanziali rispetto alla pura cronaca dei fatti esposti nel Ricordo. Nel 
suo poemetto il Pulci non dimostra soltanto piena liberta nei riguardi della fonte, 
ma anche una palese predilezione per l’occulto, una buona conoscenza di Dante, 
nonché |’intenzione di modellare il ritratto di Lorenzo de’ Medici su quelli di 
Orlando e di Rinaldo. 

Per quanto concerne poi le stanze del combattimento (che, assente nel 
Ricordo, termina con |’accidentale caduta da cavallo di Lorenzo, subito dopo 
proclamato vincitore della giostra), osservato che fra queste e il Morgante 
esistono dei paralleli, il Davie presenta tutta una serie di esempi che contengono 
frasi, immagini, espressioni iperboliche e mefatore che riappaiono nel 
capolavoro pulciano. 

Chiestosi infine se la Giostra del Pulci debba essere considerata uno scritto 
encomiastico, una semplice esercitazione letteraria oppure il fedele resoconto 
degli avvenimenti del 7 febbraio 1469, il critico conclude ch’essa “cannot be 
simply categorized as any of these things, although it probably contains 
elements of all three”. 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 257 


Orvieto, Paolo. “Sul rapporto Morgante-Orlando Laurenziano’’. 
Die Ritterepik der Renaissance. Akten des Deutsch-Italienischen 
Kolloquiums, Berlin 30. 3 - 2. 4, 1987. A c. di K. W. Hempfer. 
Stuttgart: Franz Steiner Verlag, 1989. 145-53. 

Nel suo Pulci medievale, pubblicato nel 1978, l’Orvieto, considerato “tuttora 
irrisolto” il problema del rapporto fra il Morgante del Pulci e l’Orlando 
laurenziano, aveva affermato che un nuovo esame della questione era non solo 
necessario ma avrebbe potuto persino portare al capovolgimento della tesi, 
formulata dal Rajna e comunemente accettata dalla critica pulciana, della 
derivazione del Morgante dall’anonimo poema toscano. 

In questo stimolante articolo, che riproduce il testo della comunicazione 
presentata nel 1987 al Colloquio Italo-Tedesco di Berlino, l’Orvieto affronta la 
questione allo scopo di dimostrare la dubbia attendibilita della tesi del Rajna. 

La prima prova che il Rajna adduce a sostegno della sua tesi si basa sul 
“raddoppiamento” nel poema pulciano — Astolfo nel cantare XI e Ricciardetto 
nel XII — dell’epiosodio della cattura e della tentata impiccagione di 
Ricciardetto, che nell’Orlando ha luogo ai cantari XIX, 25 e XX, 35. Notato che 
il “raddoppiamento” puo servire anche a dimostrare la tesi opposta — in quanto 
la “semplificazione di un duplice episodio in sostanza ripetitivo potrebbe 
costituire per sé un sintomo di posterita” facendo dell’Orlando un poema 
posteriore al Morgante — 1’ Orvieto sottolinea la presenza nell’anonimo cantare 
popolare di una “insanabile incongruenza” concernente il personaggio di Astolfo 
che, lasciata la corte di Carlomagno per andare a Montalbano insieme a Rinaldo, 
con cui si é schierato (XIX, 40-41), ricompare poi inspiegabilmente a Parigi 
dove, senza che il canterino accenni ad una previa riconciliazione e ritorno del 
duca a corte, lo vediamo soccorrere l’imperatore che Rinaldo ha fatto cadere da 
cavallo. L’Orvieto individua quale possibile ragione “del taglic” operato 
dall’autore dell’?Orlando — JVeliminazione dell’episodio della tentata 
impiccaggione di Astolfo — la religiosita del canterino (un dato di fatto 
riconosciuto anche dal Rajna) che si preoccupa di togliere dal suo poema “tutto 
cid che non solo risultasse aperta parodia religiosa, ma che potesse solo ledere la 
suscettibilita delle autorita ecclesiastiche”. 

Il critico, che non manca di menzionare le incongruenze riscontrate dal Rajna 
nel Morgante — incongruenze che 0 sono assenti 0 appaiono risolte nell’ Orlando 
— nota che in varie stanze del suo poema il Pulci “sembra fare esplicito 
riferimento a varianti da lui apportate alla versione originale”, cosi come il 
poeta, nell’affermare |’originalita della figura di Margutte (XIX, 1-4), ammette 
l’esistenza d’una fonte del Morgante, comune anche all’ Orlando laurenziano. Tale 
fonte, perduta o per lo meno non ancora ritrovata, potrebbe anche essere un 
Cantare d’ Orlando e di Carlo, il cui nome, appare nei registri del Magistrato dei 
pupilli con data 1472. 

L’Orvieto considera poi inaccettabili le argomentazioni del Rajna che 
vorrebbe la priorita dell’ Orlando laurenziano provata dal fatto che il carattere di 


258 Edoardo Lébano 


Morgante, “appena sbozzato nell’Orlando”, viene poi “condotto alla perfezione 
nell’altro poema”. Sempre secondo il Rajna, il Pulci “guastando” il Morgante 
dell’anonimo avrebbe oltrepassato “ogni limite di credibilita”. A questo 
proposito l’Orvieto osserva che il titolo del poema fu imposto al Pulci “dal 
volgo stesso” proprio “perché . . . le imprese eroicomiche di quel gigante 
differenziavano il poema pulciano dagli altri di argomento carolingio” (fatto 
provato appunto dalla nota premessa al titolo dell’edizione ripolina del 1481). 

Un’ ulteriore argomentazione del Rajna concerne lo scontro delle amazzoni, 
suddite dell’ Arpalista, con Ricciardetto, Guicciardo ed Alardo, mentre Rinaldo 
rimane in disparte ad osservarli (Morgante, XXII). Il Rajna considera inspiegabile 
il “dileggio” finale di Rinaldo nei riguardi dei fratelli, che dovrebbero essere 
lodati dal momento che sono risultati vincitori. Nell’Orlando, invece, il 
rimprovero di Rinaldo appare giustificato dalla ignobile fuga dei paladini. Come 
giustamente spiega l’Orvieto “il Rajna non si é minimamente accorto che al 
Pulci non interessa affatto attestare il tradizionale valore combattivo riconosciuto 
alle Amazzoni, né tantomeno il ‘motteggiare’ di Rinaldo esprime alcuna 
valutazione sull’esito del combattimento; non si é accorto che il Pulci si esibisce 
in un gustosissimo exploit di polisemia erotico-sessuale, di cui il 
‘religiossissimo’ autore dell’ Orlando laurenziano cancella ogni traccia”’. 

La prova che l’Orvieto ritiene sia “decisiva”, proponendo a sua volta 
l’ipotesi della derivazione dell’Orlando laurenziano dal Morgante, risiede nelle 
stanze 44-45 dell’ottavo cantare del capolavoro pulciano. In queste due stanze si 
apprende che Lionfante rivela ad Astolfo che i Saraceni vogliono distruggere 
Montalbano per vendicare la morte di Mambrino ch’essi credono sia stato 
proditoriamente ucciso da Rinaldo. Nelle corrispondenti stanze dell’ Orlando (XII, 
19-20), invece, Lionfante domanda assurdamente ad Astolfo di esporgli i motivi 
per cui lui [Lionfante], obbedendo agli ordini di Erminione, ha cinto d’assedio 
Montalbano. Secondo |’Orvieto, 1’“unica ipotesi” valida a spiegare l’illogica 
richiesta del Lionfante laurenziano é che il suo autore avrebbe erroneamente 
interpretato il senso della stanza 45 del Morgante, la quale, priva del punto e 
virgola chiarificatore che l’ Ageno ha apposto alla fine del secondo verso nella sua 
edizione del poema, puo indurre il lettore a fraintenderne il significato, come 
avrebbero appunto fatto il canterino e alcuni moderni editori del poema. 

Come lo stesso Orvieto riepiloga al termine del suo articolo, mentre le 
“argomentazioni di Pio Rajna non provano in alcun modo la anteriorita 
dell’Orlando laurenziano al Morgante”, esse servono invece a confermare 
“Lipotesi dell’esistenza di un oggi perduto Cantare d’ Orlando”, al quale tanto il 
Pulci quanto l’anonimo poeta avrebbero attinto. L’Orlando laurenziano, “‘datato 
dallo stesso Rajna agli ultimi decenni del secolo XV (1480-90 circa) integra il 
testo del Cantare di Orlando con il Morgante, del quale doveva avere a 
disposizione con ogni probabilita un’edizione gia a stampa (la prima di cui 
abbiamo notizia é del 1478) in ventitré cantari”. 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 259 


Ponte, Giovanni. “Attilio Momigliano e gli studi sul Pulci e 
sull’Ariosto”. Rassegna della Letteratura Italiana 93, 1-2 
(Gennaio-Agosto 1989): 43-57. 

Ricordato che l’interesse del Momigliano per l’opera del Pulci, oggetto della sua 
tesi di laurea, si esercitO durante 1 primi anni della sua attivita di critico 
letterario, mentre gli studi sull’Ariosto appartengono agli anni della maturita 
dello studioso, il Ponte rammenta (43-9) le conquiste e i limiti della critica 
pulciana del Momigliano, ch’egli esamina in relazione all’estetica crociana e alla 
critica positivista. 

Dal momento che cid che maggiormente conta per il Momigliano é 
“Y’interiorita del poeta, e quindi la storia della sua anima”, egli @ quasi 
naturalmente portato ad analizzare la personalita del Pulci e la sua “peculiare 
tendenza al riso”. Siffatta tendenza trarrebbe origine dall’indole essenzialmente 
allegra del poeta, continuamente stimolato “dalla festosita dell’ambiente umano 
del suo tempo”, nonostante le vicende spesso tristi della sua tormentata vita. 

Il Ponte, riconosciuto al Momigliano il merito di aver ricollegato il 
Morgante sia alla tradizione dei cantari cavallereschi, sia alla poesia satirico- 
burlesca toscana del XIII secolo, osserva che l’autore de L’indole e il riso di 
Luigi Pulci non ammette che si possa rintracciare nel poema pulciano una 
qualsiasi intenzione di satira della cavalleria. Anche se I’interpretazione che il 
Momigliano da di Gano é discutibile, € nondimeno vero che questo personaggio 
offre al grande studioso “l’appiglio per scrivere la pagina artisticamente pit 
riuscita del saggio”; saggio che, nonostante le sue varie “discontinuita”, deve 
essere considerato un contributo definitivamente notevole alla conoscenza della 
cultura, dell’indole e dell’ opera del Pulci. 


Pulci, Luigi. Morgante. 2 voll. Introduzione, note e indici a c. 
di Davide Puccini. Milano: Garzanti, 1989. 


1990 
Di Paolo, Maria Grazia. “Osti e osterie nel Morgante del Pulci”. 
Forum Italicum 24, 1 (Spring 1990): 80-93. 
Reputando, sulle orme del Momigliano, che la giocondita sia “1’intrinsica 
essenza del poema del Pulci”, in questo suo articolo la Di Paolo esamina la 
figura e il ruolo dell’oste, personaggio definito “una costante notevole nel 
Morgante” e “tema che rimane . . . ancora da riprendere e sviluppare”. 
L’attenzione della studiosa si concentra principalmente sul Dormi (canto 
XVIII e XIX) e su Chiarione (canti XX e XXI), che spiccano fra gli osti che 
popolano il poema pulciano “perché con essi l’osteria non si pone pit come un 
semplice sfondo, ma diventa un elemento dinamico delle vicende di cui fa parte”. 
Particolarmente interessante é l’interpretazione che la studiosa offre del 
comportamento scherzosamente ingannatore e al tempo stesso sorprendentemente 
gentile di Margutte nei riguardi del Dormi, ritenuto “1’oste pit riuscito di tutto il 


260 Edoardo Lébano 


poema” e uno “tra i personaggi minori meglio delineati di tutto il Morgante”. 
Notato che l’episodio si svolge nello spazio di tre diversi tempi (la sera 
dell’arrivo dei due giganti all’osteria, la notte della beffa di Margutte e l’alba della 
loro fuga), la studiosa rileva che Margutte, assicurandosi che |’ingenuo oste non 
gli capiti improvvisamente fra i piedi mentr’egli € intento a far razzia, evita in 
tal modo a se stesso la necessita di dover infliggere al Dormi la fine da lui fatta 
fare al papasso suo padre. Per la Di Paolo il fatto che Margutte appaia non aver 
intenzione alcuna di arrecare un male fisico all’oste, anche se pud essere 
considerato soltanto “un tenue barlume”, vale a presentarci tuttavia “nello stesso 
momento in cui svanisce, un Margutte diverso, un Margutte che crede in qualche 
altra cosa, oltre che nella torta e nel tortello”. 


Ratti, Maria Pia. “Avaler la _ tradition: sul bestiario del 
Morgante”’. Lettere Italiane 42, 2 (Aprile-Giugno 1990): 264-75. 
Premesso che i numerosissimi e svariati elementi zoologici presenti nel 
Morgante ne “determinano la singolarita”, la Ratti prende in esame due noti passi 
del poema — 1] padiglione di Luciana e la storia dell’incontro di Rinaldo con il 
leone che lotta con un drago — in cui é possibile individuare sia le innovazioni 
apportate alle fonti letterarie (bestiari e cantari) da cui il Pulci attinge, sia il 
travolgimento parodico da lui operato. Nel caso del padiglione istoriato di 
Luciana cid che maggiormente differenzia questo passo dalle “sintetiche rassegne 
faunistiche degli altri cantari” é che il Pulci “quasi mai si limita a menzionare 
semplicemente l’animale, ma procura di norma un ritratto, anche alquanto 
accurato, delle sue proprieta”. Egli opera quindi un processo di amplificazione, 
certo favorito dalla sua considerevole conoscenza del mondo animale. 

I cantari in cui, oltre al XIV (quello cioé del padiglione di Luciana) é 
descritto il maggior numero di animali sono il XVIII e il XIX. Come osserva la 
Ratti, questi animali che, salvo la testuggine, “fanno tutti parte della fauna pit 
sfruttata dai bestiari” sono destinati ad appagare l’insaziabile e dissacrante 
voracita di Morgante e di Margutte. 

A proposito dell’episodio di Rinaldo e del leone del IV cantare, risulta 
evidente che, mentre nelle prime ottave il Pulci pare seguire da vicino la 
narrazione dell’ Yvain di Chrétien de Troyes evitando “ogni intento evidente di 
parodia”, nelle stanze successive invece il leone “si rivela al tutto disutile”. Esso, 
infatti non interviene a soccorrere Rinaldo nei momenti di maggior pericolo, ma 
si limita a fare da semplice spettatore ed a seguire per un certo tempo il paladino 
che gli ha salvato la vita. Come scrive la Ratti la “rappresentazione comica di 
questo tradizionale episodio etico-zoologico tocca forse il culmine” quando la 
fiera esce improvvisamente di scena e la sua sparizione viene stranamente 
spiegata da Rinaldo e accolta con evidente sollievo da Orlando. Secondo la Ratti 
l’intento del Pulci, nell’introdurre nel suo poema quest’ episodio tradizionale che 
ha un finale apparentemente “‘incoerente e sconclusionato”, é quello di “depistare 
il lettore, facendogli credere, all’inizio, di trovarsi di fronte alla riproposizione di 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 261 


un fatto ormai consueto e accettato, e scombinandogli poi d’improvwviso le carte 
in tavola”. 


Vincenti, Eleonora. “I  protagonisti del Pulci”. Filologia e 
Critica XV (1990): 521-32. 

Le considerazioni che la Vincenti fa in questo articolo — suggeritele, com’essa 
riconosce, dalle analisi di strutture antitetiche operate dall’Orvieto nel suo Pulci 
medievale — nascono dalla convinzione che, non riuscendo a individuare nel 
poema un tema centrale, il Morgante sia strutturato in base ad alcuni personaggi, 
0 pill specificamente “intorno ad alcune coppie o terne” i cui rapporti unificanti o 
contrastanti determinano le varie vicende della narrazione. 

Viene cosi indicata la coppia Ulivieri-Rinaldo, dove Rinaldo costituisce “la 
brutta copia del perfetto paladino”, e il trio Carlo-Orlando-Rinaldo, rispetto ai 
quali Gano esercita la funzione di “diabolus ex machina”, mentre Orlando risulta 
essere “‘l’unica figura assolutamente positiva”. Buono, o “trattato altrettanto bene 
dal punto di vista morale”, é anche Morgante, fedele seguace di Orlando, cosi 
come Margutte lo é, anche se brevemente, di Morgante e il Veglio della 
Montagna lo é poi di Rinaldo. 

Classificati a gruppi di due sono anche i personaggi femminili del poema: 
Alda e Chiariella, Luciana e Antea, Forisena e Meridiana, Uliva e la figlia del re 
Falcone, nonché Bianca e Brunetta. Occupano, invece, un posto a se stante 
Gallerana e Florinetta. 

A questo punto non é molto chiaro cosa la Vincenti intenda dire quando, in 
polemica col Rajna circa la derivazione delle donne guerriere nell’ epica italiana, 
dichiara che le Amazzoni dell’ Arpalista fanno nel Morgante “una tristissima, 0 
meglio ridicolissima, figura”. Pare che la Vincenti, enfatizzando l’ovvia 
differenza fra queste donne pelose e brutte e le nobili, belle e, all’occorenza, 
anche valorose Meridiana, Antea, Luciana e Chiarella, si limiti a dare 
un’ interpretazione in chiave del tutto seria dell’ episodio, mancando in tal modo di 
recepire il reale significato della presenza di queste non certo tradizionali figure di 
Amazzoni nel poema pulciano. 

Le protagoniste femminili del poema sono quindi considerate in funzione dei 
personaggi maschili con cui esse vivono storie d’amore. Di Meridiana la 
Vincenti conclude, affermazione che non ci sentiamo di condividere, che la 
giovane “si é ‘realizzata’ nelle sue relazioni con la Cristianita, o anzi che in 
questo appunto consiste il suo amore per Ulivieri”. Di Luciana vengono elogiate 
le sue eccezionali capacita di ricamatrice e le sue “doti intellettuali”, mentre di 
Antea, definita “la vera controfigura di Rinaldo”, la studiosa giustamente rileva il 
desiderio di gloria che le fa mettere l’amore per Rinaldo in secondo piano. 

Pit convincente é il giudizio che la Vincenti esprime su Florinetta, definita 
“la figura pil eterea e intellettuale del poema”, e la cui storia € narrata in 
occasione del suo singolare incontro con Morgante e Margutte, i “due personaggi 
pit primitivi” del cepolavoro pulciano: “Quello di Florinetta . . . €, a mio 


262 Edoardo Lébano 


parere, un vero e proprio Bildungsroman, la storia di una presa di coscienza e di 
una maturazione elaborata sotto l’influsso di una sventura sentita come una 
punizione 0 una prova da una persona completamente ingenua, direi primitiva 
(quindi, in un certo senso, apparentata ai suoi salvatori)”. 


1991 

Puccini, Davide. “Ipotesi su berzo (bierzo)”. Lingua Nostra 52, 
2-3 (Giugno-Settembre 1991): 54-55. 

In questa breve nota il Puccini, curatore dell’edizione Garzanti del Morgante 
(1989), amplifica il commento ivi dato a spiegazione di berzo (XXI, 134, 5), 
aggiungendo ai tre testi citati — il sonetto LXXXVII del Pulci, il Ciriffo 
Calvaneo (V, 38, 6) e il dialogo La Raffaella del Piccolomini —, un quarto — la 
novella del picchio scambiato per un pappagallo — in cui il termine biezo é 
usato con logico riferimento “alla testa piuttosto che alla mano”. Ricordato che 
Diego Valeri, curatore del dialogo del Piccolomini, annota “la crocchia” per 
berzo, il Puccini scrive che il passaggio da “‘crocchia” a “testa” é possibile e che 
viene anche confermato dal passo del Ciriffo. La conclusione raggiunta dallo 
studioso — berzo (bierzo) = “cimiero” — é la stessa proposta nel commento alla 
sua edizione del Morgante. 


1992 


Pulci, Luigi. Morgante. 2 voll. Introd. e note a c. di Giuliano 
Dego. Torino: Biblioteca Universale Rizzoli, 1992. 


1993 

Ankli, Ruedi. “L’asse iperbolico della struttura narrativa del 
Morgante di Luigi Pulci”. Cenobio 2 (1993): 187-95. 

Come annotato in margine alla prima pagina, le considerazioni espresse in 
questo articolo delineano il metodo di lavoro e riassumono le conclusioni 
raggiunte dall’Ankli nella sua tesi dottorale, dalla quale egli ha tratto, 
rielaborandola, il lungo saggio intitolato Morgante iperbolico. L’iperbole nel 
Morgante di Luigi Pulci (Firenze: Olschki, 1993). 

Ricordato che la definizione dell’iperbole (che pud essere qualitativa o 
quantitativa) non é mutata nel tempo, mentre invece, grazie ai contributi della 
linguistica e della semantica, se ne da oggi un diverso giudizio (l’iperbole é ora 
considerata “come figura generatrice, come principio”), lo studioso svizzero 
rivela che l’approccio quantitativo da lui applicato allo studio del Morgante ha 
riscontrato che nel poema ci sono 1494 iperboli, per l’analisi delle quali é stata 
necessaria una Classificazione in sette diversi gruppi (litote, proposizioni 
ipotetiche, formule comparative o consecutive, paragoni, metafore e cosi via). 
Pur riconoscendo che tali distinzioni non servono ad accertare “il valore 
dell’iperbole nel contesto del poema”, esse permettono tuttavia al critico “di 
valutare meglio i registri topici e le soluzioni adottate dal Pulci”. 





Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 263 


Una volta completato l’esame delle “forme, contesti, misure e varianti” 
dell’iperbole nel Morgante, |’ Ankli ha esteso la sua indagine ad altri cinque 
poemi cavallereschi in ottava rima —Orlando, Spagna, Uggieri, Rinaldo e 
Fierabraccia — che, messi a confronto con il Morgante, hanno evidenziato le 
somiglianze e le differenze col poema pulciano il quale, pur appartenendo al 
genere cavalleresco, risulta distaccarsi notevomente dalle norme che regolano tale 
genere. Le statistiche fornite dal confronto confermano, fra le altre cose, la 
preferenza del Pulci (54%) per il paragone, la similitudine o la metafora. Sul 
piano qualitativo, invece, il confronto ha appurato che mentre le iperboli, rese 
con giochi di parole, sono numerose nel Morgante e peculiari di quest’ opera, 
negli altri poemi, “pil legati agli stereotipi del canone tradizionale”, esse 
s’incontrano soltanto occasionalmente. II fatto che il Pulci faccia uso frequente 
della litote, dimostra inoltre che il poeta non rifiuta il patrimonio della 
tradizione, ch’egli “trasforma” e “rinnova sovrapponendo modelli diversi a quelli 
consueti”, col risultato di creare iperboli pid complesse e sorprendenti. 

L’analisi, successivamente condotta “sul piano narrativo e paradigmatico”, 
permette allo studioso di dichiarare che l’iperbole “é una struttura portante del 
Morgante”, e che il Pulci “ha rimodellato la topicae . . . il repertorio mitologico 
non solo medievali, ma soprattutto toscani”. Lo studio dei vari tipi di iperbole, 
presenti nei primi sette cantari del poema (e precisamente I-VII, 13), evidenzia il 
lavoro stilistico operato dal Pulci che, se attinge dappertutto, inventa anche 
continuamente “con una creativita innovatrice” atta a rivoluzionare “le forme 
stereotipate e il codice tradizionale”. 

Particolarmente importante é l’iperbole del colpo (il critico ne ha classificate 
oltre trecento) che, pur non essendo tipica del Morgante, “‘costituisce un fattore 
onnipresente” al punto da poter essere considerata “un asse portante” del poema. 
Nel Morgante “il colpo é stilizzato in modo personale, e serve soprattutto a 
caratterizzare alcuni personaggi-chiave del poema”, in particolare Rinaldo, 
Orlando e Morgante, che, insieme ad altre figure principali, “si distinguono, 
nell’azione, grazie a particolarita proprie”. L’ Ankli identifica come “‘motore” del 
colpo iperbolico il verbo, “centro di paragoni e descrizioni variatissime”. 
Fondamentale nella struttura narrativa del Morgante é “il cambio di registri’, che 
differenziano il poema pulciano dai cantari cavallereschi dove le iperboli sono 
“topiche e sterotipate”. Altri importanti elementi distintivi sono “il paragone, la 
similitudine, la metafora”, in continua evoluzione nel Morgante. 

Come scrive infine 1’ Ankli, “Pulci non si é rivolto al mondo cavalleresco 
con un atteggiamento nostalgico, e nemmeno con ambizioni ‘rivoluzionarie’, ma 
con una forte spinta di edonismo dissacrante: trasformatore e innovatore e, 
proprio grazie all’iperbole, ha dato prova di un realismo cosciente dei limiti del 
suo mondo di invenzione." 


Ankli, Ruedi. Morgante iperbolico. L’iperbole nel Morgante di 
Luigi Pulci. Firenze: Olschki, 1993. 


264 Edoardo Lébano 


La parte centrale di questo studio é costituita dai capitoli III e IV in cui l’autore 
passa ad analizzare le iperboli dal piano del discorso a quello narrativo. 
Decisamente interessanti le pagine 214-225 dove viene discusso il tema del vanto 
e quello di Morgante in particolare. II Pulci, rileva 1’Ankli, “ha riscoperto la 
natura iperbolica del vanto” che costituisce “un elemento preciso della [sua] 
narrativa, e non € pit quel cliché tramandato dalla tradizione canterina, ma rivela 
il desiderio di tenere viva la curiosita e l’attesa del lettore” (217). Notevole é poi 
il dettagliato esame dell’iperbole del colpo che nel Morgante “ha perso quanto 
aveva di mitologico, per guadagnare sul piano della caricatura e della comicita” 
(235). A questo riguardo si leggano le pagine 252-321 dedicate a Morgante 
(“personaggio . . . per sua natura destinato al colpo iperbolico”), a Rinaldo 
(“leroe pit citato del Morgante . . . e la controparte del saggio Orlando”) e a 
Orlando (“sul piano umano ... il ritratto pi completo di un cavaliere del 
Morgante"). 


Terenzio, V. “Il Pulci Minore”’. Oggi e domani. Pescara 
(gennaio-febbraio, 1993). 
Di quest’ articolo non ci é stato possibile ottenere copia. 


1994 


Ankli, Ruedi. “Un problema di attribuzione sempre aperto: il 
Ciriffo Calvaneo”. L’attribuzione: teoria e pratica. Atti del 
Seminario di Ascona, 30 settembre - 5 ottobre, 1992. A c. di O. 
Besomi e C. Caruso. Basel: Birkhauser, 1994, 259-304. 

Quello della mancata definizione del corpus delle opere o sezioni di opere, 
attribuibili con certezza alla penna di Luigi Pulci, é un problema di cui da tempo 
i critici si lamentano. L’ampio e documentato saggio che Ruedi Ankli dedica alla 
questione della paternita del Ciriffo Calvaneo contribuisce pertanto a risolvere 
uno degli elementi del “puzzle” pulciano. 

Dopo aver ricordato che il problema dell’ attribuzione del Ciriffo & stato negli 
ultimi quarant’anni trascurato dalla critica, lo studioso svizzero passa in rassegna, 
elucidandoli, i vari aspetti del problema, quindi affronta “l’enigma” delle 
ventinove Ottave aggiunte al Ciriffo Calvaneo, riportando e commentando le 
spiegazioni avanzate dalla Mattioli e dal Marchetti. Convinto che il problema 
della “collaborazione” di Luigi Pulci alla stesura del Ciriffo pud essere chiarito 
qualora si riscontri in esso lo stile e la tecnica narrativa del Morgante, il critico 
sostiene e prova, con un’accurata quanto convincente analisi intertestuale, che nel 
Ciriffo si ritrova quella tendenza alla duplicazione e al capovolgimento di 
personaggi e situazioni che lo stesso studioso, nel suo Morgante iperbolico ha 
dimostrato essere procedimento tipico del Morgante. Alcuni personaggi del 
Ciriffo rivelano somiglianze notevoli con personaggi del capolavoro pulciano; 
fra questi, Falcone, che “é a meta strada tra Margutte e Gano, del primo ha tutte 
le astuzie, dell’altro il vizio del tradimento”. 


Un decennio di studi pulciani: 1984-1994 265 


Nell’ultima parte del saggio, propostosi di “esaminare se il Ciriffo Calvaneo 
senza l’aggiunta (delle ventinove ottave) é il prodotto di una collaborazione a 
quattro mani” (Marchetti), oppure “un poema composto dai due fratelli in due 
fasi successive” (Mattioli), Ankli fa una lunga e minuziosa analisi delle figure 
retoriche e in particolare del colpo iperbolico. Dato che la maggiore 
concentrazione di questo tipo di iperbole si trova nella descrizione delle battaglie 
del capitolo III del Ciriffo, il critico ha considerato un campione di circa cento 
ottave (97-200), constatando fra le iperboli del Ciriffo e quelle espresse in 
corrispondenti luoghi del Morgante “un legame pit o meno diretto”. Nel Ciriffo 
Si trovano inoltre passi, coincidenze, vocaboli, paragoni, immagini, versi e 
persino intere ottave o sezioni di ottave, che rivelano spiccate somiglianze o 
punti di contatto con il Morgante. Se la “frequenza e la tessitura dei legami 
incontestabili tra i due poemi possono gia bastare per riconoscere l’unica mano 
di un autore”, la presenza nel Ciriffo di formule sintattiche peculiari del 
Morgante non puo che confermare la tesi della paternita di Luigi. L’ Ankli, per il 
quale puo anche essere plausibile che il Pulci si sia servito del Ciriffo “come 
campo d’esercizio per la redazione degli ultimi cantari del suo poema maggiore”, 
conclude la trattazione fiducioso che il legame da lui dimostrato fra le iperboli del 
Morgante e quelle del Ciriffo confermi “il fatto che sul piano dell’analisi 
retorico-stilistica si trova un altro mezzo per attribuire la maggior parte del 
Ciriffo (cioé con ogni probabilita da II 26 in poi) piuttosto a Luigi che a Luca”. 


Indiana University 

















Mauda Bregoli-Russo 
Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 


Introduzione 

Ripetendo, dopo dieci anni, l’esperienza di redigere un saggio sulla bibliografia 
boiardesca non posso fare a meno di notare il proliferarsi di scritti sull’opera 
omnia di Matteo Maria Boiardo. Libri e saggi si sono per lo meno quadruplicati, 
e non credo solamente per |’approssimarsi del quinto centenario della morte del 
poeta! I mezzi d’approccio critico pit sofisticati e le iniziative dell’ Istituto 
Ferrarese di Studi Rinascimentali (ISR) hanno potuto permettere questo grado di 
progresso. 

Oggi l’opera del Boiardo viene affrontata complessivamente: l’esperienza 
culturale delle opere minori si riversa e si rispecchia nella maggiore, il poema 
epico, Inamoramento de Orlando, dal titolo ormai comunemente accettato dagli 
studiosi come unica forma fornita di attestazioni coeve. Il poema epico 
boiardesco viene analizzato ora sotto vari aspetti: (1) quello filologico, per cui si 
attende la nuova edizione critica de l’/namoramento de Orlando a cura di Antonia 
Tissoni Benvenuti e Cristina Montagnani. Per la ricostruzione della storia 
materiale del testo sono strumenti fondamentali sia la Bibliografia dell’ Orlando 
innamorato, a cura di Neil Harris, sia le concordanze e il rimario pubblicati da 
David Robey e Marco Dorigatti. (2) C’é poi lo studio dei miti (Andrea Gareffi, 
Cristina Montagnani e Antonia Tissoni Benvenuti) e delle fonti classiche del 
poema (Cristina Zampese). La tradizionale ricerca generale delle fonti del poema 
epico si é incanalata verso |’analisi dei mezzi e strumenti poetici del Boiardo (3) 
con 1 lavori di Marco Praloran, Marco Tizi, Cristina Cabani, Mauda Bregoli- 
Russo, Riccardo Bruscagli e Cristina Montagnani. Nei saggi di Bruscagli e 
Montagnani si usano i termini di “decontestualizzazione“ e “decodificazione” 
boiardesca, indicanti quel particolare modo di poetare del Boiardo teso a 
smembrare le fonti. (4) Si sono moltiplicati gli studi sui rapporti del poema 
boiardesco con le opere minori ed altre opere italiane e straniere (del Pulci e di 
Milton) tramite i saggi di Antonio Franceschetti, Charles Stanley Ross, Neil 
Harris e Stefano Carrai. In questa sede si vuole sottolineare l’originale studio di 
Carrai per cui l’Inamoramento de Orlando “‘costituirebbe 1’immediata risposta di 
Ferrara al tentativo di Firenze di affermare (o riaffermare) la propria egemonia 
anche nel genere per eccellenza padano della poesia epico-cavalleresca” (116). Dal 
versante americano in questi anni si sono verificati molti avvenimenti: l’opera di 
traduzione in inglese di tutto il poema epico boiardesco a cura di Charles Stanley 
Ross, la versione in inglese degli Amorum Libri a cura di Andrea Di Tommaso e 
l’approccio critico americano di Jo Ann Cavallo che fin dalla sua Ph. D. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


268 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


Dissertation ha approfondito le tre categorie d’amore nel poema di Boiardo. 
Poiché nella personalita e nell’opera letteraria di Matteo Maria Boiardo vediamo 
riflessa la multiforme vita ed i vari usi linguistici del ceto non incolto del 
secondo Quattrocento estense, sono subentrati in questo periodo studi sulla 
lingua del Boiardo (Maria Antonietta Acocella, Francesco Bruni e Paolo Trovato) 
e sul suo modo particolare di tradurre. A tal proposito l’opera di Edoardo 
Fumagalli, Matteo Maria Boiardo volgarizzatore dell’ “Asino d’ Oro” , & una pietra 
miliare nella critica del poeta di Scandiano. 

Nell’ultimo decennio, lentamente ma insistentemente, si € fatta strada la 
raccomandazione di tenere presente, nell’opera omnia boiardesca, il pubblico, 
V’uditorio particolare a cui Boiardo si rivolgeva e che modificava il modo di 
scrivere del poeta e determinava le tematiche delle opere. Se per questo aspetto 
possiamo citare vari saggi di Riccardo Bruscagli e Paul Larivaille, tuttavia sono 
stati soprattutto Edoardo Fumagalli e Antonio Franceschetti a centrare il 
problema. Il primo ha detto, a proposito della traduzione del Boiardo, che “il 
pubblico gentile e smaliziato, fosse un pubblico di lettori o di ascoltatori o di 
spettatori, era certo in grado di cogliere, nei frutti del lavoro letterario degli autori 
in voga, le citazioni implicite e le allusioni ad altri scritti contemporanei” (157- 
158). Franceschetti ha parlato di Boiardo come di un poeta che ama le gioie 
serene e i piaceri eleganti della vita (““ocio amoroso e cura giovenile”) non 
l’intellettuale isolato che macera la sua vita sui libri (1990, 185). 

Il lavoro filologico sui testi del Boiardo @ senza dubbio fondamentale ma 
non rappresenta tutto quello di cui i boiardisti hanno bisogno. Manca ancora una 
sintesi critica atta a suggerire agli studiosi nuove strade da percorrere e idee 
originali da sperimentare. Come dice acutamente Riccardo Bruscagli: 


. .. la critica dell’/nnamorato ancora attende il paziente lavoro chiarificatore di una 
ricerca capace, nientemeno, di ritornare alla vita un mondo frantumato, e per tante 
parti ormai irrimediabilmente perduto, qual @ quello della civilta cortigiana 
quattrocentesca (e primo cinquecentesca), raccogliendo dal grande naufragio delle 
guerre d'Italia e della mutazione culturale che ne segui i segni superstiti ed ancora 
leggibili di un gusto letterario. 

(1987, 11) 


Partendo proprio da questa riflessione deriva la necessita di una collaborazione tra 
studiosi, un lavoro d’équipe, come si effettua nei campi scientifici, dove lo 
specialista filologo collabora con lo storico e lo studioso di fonti. Tutti, 
insomma, dovrebbero unire i loro sforzi per un risultato certo futuro. Ma se il 
lavoro organizzativo e direttivo di gruppo sembra ancora in fieri, esiste, tuttavia, 
la consapevolezza di cid. Infatti € consolante constatare come la filologa Antonia 
Tissoni Benvenuti abbia riconosciuto il valore coadiuvante di uno studio del 
Franceschetti sul ciclo dell’Aspromonte per il recupero della lezione originale del 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 269 
poema boiardesco (1992, 44).! 


Bibliografia 

1983 

1. Baldan, Paolo. Mondo popolare e mondo aristocratico nel 
Boiardo. In Miscellanea di studi in onore di Vittore Branca. III, 
2. Firenze: Leo S. Olschki, 1983, pp. 527-44. 

Il poema rispecchierebbe la mentalita ed i gusti di una societa aristocratica che, 
priva di un diaframma “borghese” (presente invece in quella fiorentina), si 
incontrerebbe senza problemi con la cultura “rurale”. 

2. Baruzzo Elisabetta. Niccolo degli Agostini continuatore del 
Boiardo. Pisa, Giardini Editori e Stampatori, 1983, pp. 158. 
L’autrice ha dimostrato la pochezza del lavoro dell’Agostini che giunge al 
culmine del grottesco, come quando colloca ninfe e pastori, promuovendoli a 
pubblico, addirittura dentro i suoi poemi. Con questo lavoro la studiosa cerca di 
mettere in rilievo l’impatto sul pubblico delle varie operazioni editoriali e la 
personalita dei pid risentivi o significativi emuli boiardeschi. 

3. Benvenuti, Antonia Tissoni e Mussini, Maria Pia Sacchi. 
Introduzione a M. M. Boiardo, Timone.In Teatro del 
Quattrocento. Le corti padane. Torino: UTET, 1983, pp. 471-79. 
L’ossessiva presenza di precise didascalie nel Timone di Boiardo porterebbe un 
contributo originale ed ancora non sfruttato alla storia della scenografia cortigiana 
quattrocentesca. L’attenzione registica alla scena, che giunge fino ad una 
elencazione precisa di costumi e praticabili, spinge la Tissoni Benvenuti ad 
amplificare con decisione il contributo del Boiardo agli spettacoli estensi, per 
quanto scarse siano le prove documentarie. 

4. Bruscagli, Riccardo. I] romanzo padano di M. M. Boiardo. In 


1 Questa bibliografia boiardesca ragionata continua la mia precedente (“Annali d’Italianistica” 1 
(1983): 159-173) e va dal 1983 al maggio del 1994. Si rimanda il lettore o lo studioso interessato 
alla consultazione di una bibliografia boiardesca, non ragionata, degli anni ’90 compilata da Neil 
Harris: Devant nous le déluge! Per una bibliografia boiardesca degli anni ’90. “Il Boiardo 
notiziario di informazione e di bibliografia boiardesca”. Il Centro stampa del Comune di 
Scandiano. A c. di Giuseppe Anceschi. 1 (Giugno 1993): 9-11; 2 (novembre 1993): 20. Si € 
seguito un criterio cronologico, segnalando ogni opera sotto la data dell’anno di pubblicazione. Le 
opere dello stesso anno sono esposte in ordine alfabetico d’autore. Per il contenuto delle opere e 
degli articoli, elemento fondamentale di una bibliografia ragionata, si € cercato di fornire 
informazioni essenziali, valide per studi e ricerche sul Boiardo. Per la ricerca sono stati consultati i 
seguenti cataloghi e repertori bibliografici generali: 1. MLA On Line per la voce Boiardo. 2. The 
Year’s Work in Modern Language Studies. London: The Modem Humanities Research Association, 
1983-92; 3. Library of Congress Catalog. Washington: Library of Congress,1988-92; 4. Istituto 
centrale per il catalogo unico delle biblioteche italiane e per le informazioni bibliografiche. 
Bibliografia nazionale italiana. Nuova serie del bollettino delle pubblicazioni italiane ricevute per 
diritto a stampa. A c. di Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale di Firenze. Roma: Istituto Centrale per il 
Catalogo Unico, 1988-1992; 5. Gli indici di consultazione di “Studi e problemi di critica testuale” 
(1983-1993), e le rassegne de “La rassegna della letteratura italiana” (1983-1992). 


270 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


Stagioni della civilta estense. Pisa: Nistri-Lischi, 1983,pp. 33- 
86. 

Il saggio si articola su una “parabola” di lettura dell’/nnamorato chiudendola 
nell’eleganza di un nitido disegno. Viene sottolineata la cautela boiardesca: le 
trame della tradizione classica, gli intrecci borghesi della novella o della 
commedia devono passare al filtro di una normalizzazione ideologica per non 
contaminare valori e ritmi del mondo cortese. 

5. Maglione, Sabatino. Notas sobre la fecha y las fuentes de 
“Los celos de Rodamonte’’. “Bulletin of the Comediantes” 35 
(1983): 153-64. 

Tra le fonti della commedia di Lope de Vega, Los celos de Rodamonte, si segnala 
non solo il Furioso dell’ Ariosto ma anche |’Innamorato di Matteo Maria 
Boiardo, in particolare l’episodio relativo alla morte di Agricane. 

6. Pettinelli, Rosanna Alhaique. L’immaginario cavalleresco nel 
rinascimento ferrarese. Roma: Bonacci, 1983. 

L’opera della Pettinelli mostra chiaramente cosa significhi per la critica 
contemporanea la tradizione positivistica delle fonti. La studiosa analizza 
l’Innamorato attraverso le sue componenti culturali facendo riferimento anche a 
saggi anteriori, in particolare a “L’O./. e la tradizione cavalleresca in ottova”, 
apparso in La rassegna della letteratura italiana del 1967. 


1984 


7. Baldan, Paolo. Metamorfosi di un _ orco. Un’invenzione 
folclorica nel Boiardo  esorcizzata dall’Ariosto. Milano: 
Unicopli, 1983 (1984). 

Per il rapporto Boiardo-Ariosto il Baldan (in particolare nel capitolo quinto) 
segnala un’ interpretazione “normalizzatrice” del Furioso perché |’Orco boiardesco 
viene collocato “nel cuore pit antico della fiaba”, mentre |’ antagonista ariostesco 
non sara altro che un Polifemo immerso nella classicita. 

8. Limentani, Alberto. Avvento d’Angelica. Appunti sul primo 
canto dell’Orlando innamorato. In AA. VV., Symposium’ in 
honorem Prof. M. de Riquer. Barcelona: Universitat de 
Barcelona, Quadernis Crema, 1986, pp. 137-60. 

Benché non sia proficua una lettura sistematica, di un canto alla volta, per il 
testo del poema boiardesco, cid non toglie che l’esperimento possa portare 
qualche frutto, nel senso di tornare con occhi diversi al testo. Limentani sostiene 
che “la pratica” dell’entrelacement nel poema boiardesco non é del tutto 
disinvolta, e proprio qui fa ancora difetto agli studi quell’analisi che ha ora 
condotto Giuseppe Dalla Palma per il Furioso. 

9. Moretti, Walter e June Salmons (a c. di). The Renaissance in 
Ferrara and its European Horizons. Cardiff: University of Wales 
Press. Ravenna: Lapucci Girasolo, 1984. 

Opera essenziale di consultazione per chiunque si occupi di Boiardo. 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 paid 


10. Spaggiari, William (a c. di). G. B. Venturi. Autobiografia. 
Carteggi del periodo elvetico (1801-1813). Parma: Studio 
Parmense [Verona, Fiorimi], 1984, pp. 110-111. 

L’opera é dedicata agli studi boiardeschi di Giovanbattista Venturi, editi ed 
inediti. 

11. Weaver, Elissa. Erotic Language and Imagery in Francesco 
Berni’s rifacimento. “Modern Language Notes” 99 (1984): 80- 
100. 

Dove |’ Orlando del Boiardo é una casta figura (dovuta ad impotenza), Berni tende 
a sottolineare |’omosessualita. 


1985 


12. Battera, Francesca. Le redazioni dei “Pastoralia” del Boiardo 
e il modello virgiliano. “Studi e problemi di critica testuale” 31 
(1985): 63-78. 

La studiosa pone 1l’ipotesi di due successive redazioni dei Pastoralia, che solo 
nella seconda manifesterebbero un’utilizzazione sistematica del modello 
virgiliano. 

13. Bozzoli, Adriano. La chiave dell’“Orlando furioso”. Milano: 
Celuc Libri, 1985. 

La tesi dell’autore é questa: il protagonista del poema ariostesco assume una 
configurazione differente da quella delineata nell’opera epica boiardesca. 
L’Orlando ariostesco non deve essere considerato altrimenti che un nuovo Orfeo, 
la cul vicenda é stata ripresa dall’ Ariosto applicandola alla materia cavalleresca. 
14. Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. L’astrologia, I’“Innamorato” del 
Boiardo ed il “Milione” di Marco Polo. “Studi e problemi di 
critica testuale’ 30 (1985): 41-49. 

L’articolo si muove entro due approcci critici dell’Jnnamorato, da una parte 
V’entrelacement e dall’altra |’ intertestualita (il rapporto che una parola ha nel 
testo e nella sua allusivita ad altri testi). Le opere conosciute dal Boiardo erano la 
Cronaca dello Pseudo Turpino, Historia de Preelis, il De Venenis di Pietro 
d’Abano, |’Astronomicon di Manilio e la Historia Naturalis di Plinio. La 
Bregoli-Russo ha anche preso in considerazione I! milione di Marco Polo come 
sub-testo del poema. 

15. Fumagalli, Edoardo. Da Nicolé Leoniceno a M. M. Boiardo: 
proposta per l’attribuzione del volgarizzamento in prosa del 
“Timone”. “Aevum” 59 (1985): 163-177. 

In questo importantissimo saggio lo studioso non solo conferma la paternita 
boiardesca del volgarizzamento di Apuleio, ma stabilisce anche i criteri per una 
edizione critica del volgarizzamento stesso: riesamina i numerosi errori 
d’interpretazione imputabili al testo latino che il traduttore aveva presente. Lo 
studioso esprime la necessita di un’edizione critica, non solo dell’Apulegio 
volgare, ma di tutte le traduzioni del Boiardo come condizione necessaria per una 


272 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


vera edizione, restaurata nel testo e adeguatamente commentata, 
dell’/namoramento de Orlando. 

16. Marchetti, Giuseppe. La bella storia di “Orlando innamorato” 
e poi “Furioso”. In Ennio Grassi (a c. di). Alfredo Panzini nella 
cultura letteraria italiana fra ’800 e ’900. Rimini: Maggioli, 
1985, pp. 281-283. 

In queste poche pagine viene ripreso in mano e riletto un trattatello di Alfredo 
Panzini, pubblicato nel 1933 su “Nuova antologia”, riguardante una “scrittura” 
sull’ Orlando innamorato e la “dolce nostra ottava rima’”’. L’articolo dimostra una 
“veggenza critica eccezionale”, dice il Marchetti. Nel capitolo dodicesimo del 
trattatello si parla della stampa veneziana del poema del 1486 (sic) donata o 
collegata in qualche modo a Benito Mussolini! 

17. Micocci, Claudia. Appunti su Magia e astrologia nel 
canzoniere di Boiardo. In Gianfranco Formichetti, I] mago, il 
cosmo, il teatro degli astri: saggi sulla letteratura esoterica del 
rinascimento. Roma: Bulzoni, 1985, pp. 35-65. 

L’autrice sottolinea il ruolo di Ferrara nel dibattito sulla magia e astrologia. 

18. Navarrete, Ignacio. Boiardo’s “pastorali” as a Macrotext. 
Stanford Italian Review 5 (1985): 37-53. 

Basandosi sul concetto di macrotesto, definito esaurientemente da Maria Corti nei 
Principi della comunicazione letteraria (1976), l\’autore sostiene che le egloghe 
pastorali in volgare di Boiardo devono essere lette come una grande testo unitario 
direttamente legato alle egloghe virgiliane. 

19. Quint, David. La barca dell’avventura_ nell’epica 
rinascimentale. “Intersezioni” 5 (1985): 467-488. 

Nel saggio emerge il carattere totalmente aristocratico-avventuroso, proprio del 
Boiardo, che, pero, rigetta l’"avventura mercenaria. L’autore riconosce la fusione 
dei generi nel poema boiardesco: romanzi medievali francesi ed epica italiana. 

20. Ruschioni, Ada. I sonetto italiano. Morfologia, profilo 
Storico, antologia. Volume I: 1200-1500. Milano: Celuc Libri, 
1985. Pp. 171-176. 

L’autrice riunisce alcuni sonetti scelti, tratti dagli Amorum Libri del Boiardo, 
lodandone |’immediata freschezza, spontaneita, semplicita e chiarezza del dettato. 


1986 

21. Cavallo, Jo Ann. The role of the woman in the Orlando 
“Innamorato”. Carte Italiane 8 (1986-87): 31-39. 

Il ruolo della donna nel poema boiardesco é certamente originale e si distacca 
notevolmente dalla descrizione delle donne e del loro ruolo nei precedenti romanzi 
cavallereschi. 

22. Ceserani, Remo. Boiardo. In Dizionario critico della 
letteratura italiana, a c. di Vittore Branca. Torino: UTET, 1986, 
seconda edizione, pp. 364-368. 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 273 


Lo studioso riconosce che un’indagine attenta di tutto il poema nei suoi vari 
aspetti non é stata ancora condotta. L’autore conclude che “si nota, pur tra le 
ancora forti incertezze, una tendenza a riconoscere al Boiardo un’energia poetica 
robusta ed al suo poema doti di notevole piacevolezza e leggibilita”. 

23. Harris, Neil. John Milton’s Reading of the “Orlando 
innamorato”. “La bibliofilia” 88 (1986): 25-43. 

L’Inghilterra é un paese che, fin dai tempi di Edmund Spenser e di John Milton, 
aveva una conoscenza imperfetta della materia dell’Jnnamorato, considerata 
propedeutica a quella del Furioso. 

24. Harris, Neil. The “unicum” of the Second Edition of 
Boiardo’s “Orlando innamorato” and a forgery of the last century. 
“Rivista di letteratura italiana” 4 (1986): 519-536. 

Cristina Montagnani e Antonia Tissoni Benvenuti stanno allestendo |’edizione 
critica del poema boiardesco. I lavori di Neil Harris introducono fondamentali 
verita sul versante della recensio come l’intervento sul restauro subito 
dall’ edizione veneziana del 1487. 

25. Marinelli, Peter V. The Flight of Ariosto’s Hippogriff: 
Genesis, Elaboration, and Function. In Ficino and Renaissance 
Platonism, a _c. di Konrad Ejisenbichler e Olga Zorzi Pugliese. 
Toronto: Dovehouse Editions Canada, 1986, pp. 87-89. 

Il volo @ l’elemento che pone una differenza cruciale tra il Furioso e 
V’Innamorato: il volo raffigura il movimento ed il livello d’amore (in senso 
ficiniano) che é esso stesso un indice di come la vita possa risultare errabonda e 
umana (il caso di Ruggiero) o aspirare a qualcosa di pili alto (Astolfo). Questi 
eroi sono legati tra loro e distinti dal loro cavalcare l’ippogrifo. Entrambi sono 
assolutamente distanziati da Orlando che é bestiale e che non vola per niente. 
Per Ficino la lussuria degli animali non é amore ma una condizione medica, cioé 
insania. Cosi Orlando “Paccio“ in Boiardo al primo apparire di Angelica (canto 
primo) e “ furioso“ in Ariosto, in ricordo dell’Ercole furente di Seneca, diventa 
“insano” secondo i parametri di Ficino. 

26. Sherberg, Michael. Matteo Maria Boiardo and the Cantari di 
Rinaldo. “Quaderni d’italianistica’ 7 (1986): 165-181. 

L’autore sceglie di misurare le intenzioni narrative boiardesche a partire dalla 
personalita dei personaggi: la coppia rivale Orlando/Rinaldo. Lo studioso svolge 
il tema del contrasto tradizionale fra paladini come affrontato nel poema: il 
Boiardo s’impadronirebbe di una spazio narrativo intermedio tra la versione 
vulgata dei cantari e ogni possibile variante, mentre i personaggi rivivono la 
storia e la raccontano da opposti punti di vista. 

27. Ulivi, Ferruccio. Opere di Matteo Maria Boiardo. Milano: 
Mursia, 1986, pp. XLV-1268. 

In questa edizione si rinvengono sia una scelta di passi da Pastorale, Timone, e 
Lettere che l’edizione integrale di Amorum Libri e Orlando Innamorato. Per 
quanto riguarda l’attivita esegetica il commento dell’Ulivi all’/nnamorato 


274 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


rappresenta il primo lavoro impegnativo del genere, anche se suscettibile di 
correzioni e di aggiunte. 


1987 

28. Battera, Francesca. Per una lettura di “Orlando innamorato”’, 
I, XX-XXII, “Studi e problemi di critica testuale” 34 (1987): 85- 
LOS: 

Si segnala questo articolo per la consapevolezza metodologica con cui sono 
condotti gli studi sulle fonti di particolari aspetti del poema boiardesco. 

29. Beer, Marina. Romanzi di cavalleria. Il Furioso e il romanzo 
italiano del primo Cinquecento. Roma: Bulzoni (Europa delle 
Corti), 1987. Pp. 414.. 

La studiosa elogia il recupero del testo dell’/nnamorato del Boiardo per opera di 
Antonio Panizzi (1830-1834). Le direttrici di metodo sono chiare: fonti ricercate 
in tutta la tradizione medioevale e romanza, epica e non epica, di cui Jnnamorato 
e Furioso sono il culmine, e ricerca attenta alla filologia delle stampe antiche di 
cui in quegli stessi anni Panizzi cominciava ad occuparsi. II Rajna ricordera 
queste note quasi quarant’anni dopo, in apertura delle sue Fonti dell’ Orlando 
furioso. Il filo rosso, che corre attraverso la tradizione erudita settecentesca fino 
all’opera forse pit emblematica del positivismo letterario in Italia, passa dunque 
obbligatoriamente per la prova isolata di filologo, comparatista e romanista di 
Antonio Panizzi. 

30. Benvenuti, Antonia Tissoni. I] mondo cavalleresco e la corte 
estense. In I libri di “Orlando innamorato”. Ferrara ISR. 
Modena: Edizioni Pacini, 1987, pp. 13-21. 

La studiosa, verificando ed integrando segnalazioni di autori precedenti, delinea 
gli orientamenti culturali della Corte dall’epoca di Niccol6 III a quella di Ercole I, 
con particolare riferimento all’appassionamento di quella corte per la letteratura 
cavalleresca francese e italiana e all’intenso interesse con cui veniva seguita la 
composizione dell’/nnamorato stesso. A proposito del quale si osserva che 
l’unico titolo attestato nei documenti dell’autore e dei suoi stessi contemporanei 
sia Inamoramento de Orlando. 

31. Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. Boiardo, Ariosto e i commentatori 
del Cinquecento. “Annali dell’Istituto Universitario Orientale’’. 
Sezione Romanza. 29 (1987): 77-86. 

Con lo studio delle Imprese e degli Emblemi rinascimentali, condotti dalla 
Bregoli-Russo in questi anni, si é cercato di verificare, tramite i commentatori 
cinquecenteschi del Furioso (Porcacchi e Fornari), quanto tali autori fossero 
consapevoli della prospettiva simbolica nelle loro annotazioni sull’ Ariosto. 

32. Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. La leggenda di Sir Lancillotto del 
lago e Il’“Innamorato” del Boiardo. “Esperienze letterarie” 1 
(1987): 47-56. 

L’autrice tenta di interpretare il motivo del bacio mostruoso dell’eroe, dato al 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 DIS 


serpente drago, come un mito della tradizione arturiana trasmesso in maniera 
periferica nell’ambiente culturale del Boiardo. Lo scopo di questo saggio é 
duplice: illuminare l’episodio del Fier Baiser entro un reticolato narrativo 
dell’/nnamorato ed indagare il misterioso modo di lavorare del Boiardo. 

33. Bruscagli, Riccardo (a c. di). J libri di Orlando innamorato. 
Modena: Edizioni Pacini, 1987. 

Secondo il Bruscagli la critica dell’/nnamorato ancora attende il “paziente lavoro 
chiarificatore di una ricerca capace, nientemeno, di ritornare alla vita un mondo 
frantumato, e per tante parti ormai irrimediabilmente perduto, qual € quello della 
civilta cortigiana quattrocentesca” (11). 

34. Eboigbe, Delphia Elizabeth Robinson. Ph. D. Indiana 
University. DAI (Dissertation Abstract Index. “The Depiction of 
the Negro African in Three Old French Chansons de Geste and 
Two Renaissance Epic-Chivalric Poems”. 1986, pp. 383, June 
1987. 47:12, 4404A. 

Uno degli aspetti dell’ Umanesimo fu il concetto di uomo macrocosmo. L’autrice 
si chiede (tentando di risolvere il problema) in che modo quest’ idea alteri la 
coscienza di sé dell’uomo occidentale e la sua relazione con il resto dell’umanita 
nel mondo reale d’integrazione sociologica e politica. I] terzo capitolo di questa 
dissertazione analizza le descrizioni dei negro-africani nell’ Orlando innamorato di 
Boiardo. 

35. Franceschetti, Antonio. Ispirazione comica e dimensione 
umana nel “Timone” del Boiardo. “Yearbook of Italian Studies” 6 
(1987): 75-89. 

Lo studioso promuove la lettura del Timone tenendo conto in primo piano della 
comicita che pervade |’opera, che non é una favola mitologica e pastorale come 
quella di Orfeo o quella di Cefalo, ma una “‘comedia” concepita nello spirito del 
teatro latino, soprattutto di Plauto, e come tale avvertita e annunciata dall’autore 
fin dall’inizio del prologo. Nel rivolgersi al genere teatrale il Boiardo ha inteso 
approfondire quelle venature presenti anche in momenti e situazioni 
dell’/nnamorato. 

36. Gareffi, Andrea. La memoria di Boiardo. Miti greci, 
palinsesti latini, materia di Francia. “Schifanoia” 4 (1987): 25- 
30. 

Si accenna alla lettura, non certa ma plausibile, di Apollonio di Rodi da parte del 
Boiardo. Tale studio si puo riallacciare all’opera intrapresa da Cristina Zampese 
sulla cultura classica nell’Orlando innamorato. 

37. Giampaoli, M. Tania. Petrarca e il petrarchismo nel 
rifacimento dell’“Orlando innamorato” di Francesco Berni. In 
AA. VV. Scritture di _ scritture: testi, generi, modelli nel 
Rinascimento. A c. di Giancarlo Mazzacurati e Michel Plaisance. 
Roma: Bulzoni, 1987, pp. 509-524. 

Uno dei cambiamenti del rifacimento berniano é la trasposizione delle formule 


276 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


della narrazione canterina in moduli pit raffinati, basati su modelli classici 
antichi e su modelli moderi toscani. Per esempio nell’ incipit del poema riscritto 
il Berni si rivolge a un pubblico tra stilnovistico e petrarchesco: “Leggiadri 
amanti e donne innamorate”. 

38. Harris, Neil. L’avventura editoriale dell’“Orlando 
innamorato”. In AA.VV. I libri di “Orlando innamorato”. 
Modena: Edizioni Pacini, 1987, pp. 35-63. 

Questo ampio saggio é stato concepito come una premessa alla bibliografia 
dell’edizione dell’Orlando innamorato, con lo scopo di “ricreare quel ricco 
contesto editoriale e tipografico in cui il poema boiardesco s’inserisce”. 

39. Harris, Neil (a c. di). Orlando innamorato. Stampa anastatica 
dell’edizione di Piero de’ Piasi. Bologna: Forni, 1987. 

Quest’ opera rappresenta la storia dell’unico esemplare rimasto dell’edizione 
veneziana del 1487 del poema. 

40. Marinelli, Peter V. Ariosto and Boiardo: The Origins of 
“Orlando furioso”. Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 
1987. 

L’autore si propone di esaminare |’Jnnamorato del Boiardo e il Furioso 
dell’Ariosto ponendoli sotto una lente critica moderna, non ignara di teorie di 
entrelacement e di studi di miti, imprese e allegorie. Il problema fondamentale é 
quello di stabilire un sistema nel metodo compositivo dell’ Ariosto che lavora sul 
testo di Boiardo: la relazione tra i due poemi si configura nei termini di un 
palinsesto - un manoscritto pergamenaceo su cui un primo testo affiora in 
maniera da poterci scrivere sopra un altro testo. 

41. Micocci, Claudia. Zanze e parole. Studi su Matteo Maria 
Boiardo. Roma: Bulzoni, 1987. 

La studiosa discute l’episodio di Morgana, particolarmente nelle pagine 79-88. 
La Micocci scrive: “. . . la figura boiardesca di Morgana sembra sviluppare 
molteplici possibilita di legami con analoghe figure e situazioni dell’antica 
poesia latina e della mitologia classica, sia nel suo significato autonomo che, 
largamente, nelle congiunzioni e convergenze che manifesta con le immagini di 
Angelica e dell’ Antonia del canzoniere” (82). 

42. Praloran, Marco. La battaglia di Montealbano nell’“Orlando 
innamorato”: analisi di alcune tipologie del discorso epico. 
“Schifanoia” 3 (1987): 29-43. 

Prendendo come esempio la battaglia di Montealbano nell’“Innamorato” (gli 
eserciti di Marsilio e Carlo Magno stanno combattendo sotto Montealbano 
quando Agramante finalmente decide di partire verso la Francia) lo studioso mette 
in evidenza come il racconto boiardesco, invece di una successione lineare, 
occupi vari cadres spaziali, tenendo in vita pid unita, dilatando quindi in senso 
orizzontale il luogo del combattimento in vari nuclei su cui la narrazione e, 
figurativamente, la macchina da presa passa alternativamente. Ad un centro 
narrato si oppongono altri centri narrati implicitamente e in continuo dinamismo 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 277 


perché articolati su degli eventi in atto. Se per Bruscagli l’atteggiamento del 
narratore nell’/nnamorato é quello del “‘telecronista”, per Praloran diventa quello 
del “regista”. 

43. Visani, Oriana. La _ tecnica dell’esordio nel poema 
cavalleresco dai cantari all’Ariosto. Schifanoia 3 (1987): 45-84. 
L’Innamoramento di Galvano si riallaccia all’"Innamorato nella tecnica 
dell’esordio di cantare, dove manca |’invocazione religiosa tradizionale, sostituita, 
come nel poema boiardesco, da invocazioni mitologiche o da appelli al pubblico. 
44. Weaver, Elissa. Riformare Il’“Orlando innamorato”.InJI Libri 
di Orlando innamorato. A c. di Riccardo Bruscagli. Modena: 
Edizioni Panini, 1987. Pp. 117-144. 

Da una esauriente collazione la studiosa ha potuto determinare il fatto che il 
Berni adopero una o pili edizioni della tradizione testuale che fa capo all’ edizione 
del 1511 (Venezia, Rusconi). 

45. Spaggiari, William. Panizzi e Il’?“Orlando innamorato”. In 
AA.VV. I Libri di Orlando innamorato. Modena:  Edizioni 
Panini, 1987. Pp. 145-150. 

Per il testo del poema, Panizzi si fondd su un gruppo di edizioni che vanno da 
quella milanese del 1513, presso Leonardo Vegio, a quella veneziana del Nicolini 
(1544), ultima a proporre |’/nnamorato originale: inaccessibili gli rimasero 
ovviamente |’apografo trivulziano e le primissime stampe, a partire dall’unico 
esemplare di quella del 1487 allora di proprieta di Gaetano Melzi. 


1988 


46. Alexandre-Gras, Denise. L’héroisme chévaleresque dans le 
Roland Amoureux de Boiardo. Saint Etienne: Publications de 
Université de Saint-Etienne, 1988. Pp. 396. 

Il volume é un’opera filologica nel senso che l’autrice ripercorre il poema di 
Boiardo verso per verso, analizzando ogni parola, ogni congiunzione o 
preposizione per dimostrare le sue varie tesi. L’opera si divide in tre parti: la 
prima svolge i temi della battaglia e dell’amore; la seconda approfondisce i temi 
dello scetticismo, del comico e dell’umorismo nel poema; la terza svolge i temi 
dei nuovi valori cortesi e umanistici del Boiardo. 

47. Badini, Caterina. Rassegna boiardesca. “Lettere italiane” 
40:2 (1988): 281-296. 

Questo studio rappresenta un piccolo paradiso per i boiardisti, i quali possono 
rinvenirvi un compendio dei nuovi indirizzi critici. L’indagine bibliografica della 
Badini mantiene una divisione tradizionale per generi pid per scelta di comodita 
espositiva che per riproporre una ormai superata suddivisione tra Boiardo lirico e 
romanzesco. 

48. Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. I tarocchi nel rinascimento italiano. 
In Letteratura italiana ed arti figurative. A c. di Antonio 
Franceschetti. Firenze: Leo S. Olschki, 1988. Pp. 405-415. 


278 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


L’articolo fa riferimento all’arte e all’influenza petrarchesca (J trionfi). Per le 
cognizioni astrologiche i tarocchi ferraresi si differenziano nettamente da quelli 
del Mantegna di Mantova e da quelli dei Visconti di Milano. 

49. Cabani, Maria Cristina. Le forme del cantare _ epico- 
cavalleresco. L’Unicorno, Collana di testi e di critica letteraria 
diretta da Luigi Blasucci, 2. Lucca: Maria Pacini Fazzi Editore. 
1988. Pp. 224. 

La studiosa ha descritto dettagliatamente le forme del cantare epico cavalleresco 
suddividendole in prologo, epilogo, interruzione e cambiamento di narrazione con 
relativa partecipazione emotiva e adeguamento di tono; intreccio stentato e 
minimo di episodi, misura e aspetto metrico. L’opera é uno strumento utile per 
la critica boiardesca. 

50. Cavallo, Jo Ann. Ph. D. Yale University. DAI Dissertation 
Abstract Index. “Acquisitive and Benevolent Desire in Boiardo’s 
Orlando innamorato”. 1987. Pp. 198. April 1988. 48:10, 2641A. 
Basandosi sulle teorie di Robert G. Hazo e Denis De Rougemont, |’autrice studia 
le tre categorie d’amore nel poema boiardesco: eros puro come nella tradizione 
cortese; agape fino all’esclusione dell’eros come nelle leggende del Santo Graal, 
ed infine eros temperato da agape come nel matrimonio cristiano. 

51. Everson, Jane E. Syntax and Style in Il Mambriano of 
Francesco Cieco da Ferrara. In The Language of Literature in 
Renaissance Italy. A c. di Peter Hainsworth, Valerio Lucchesi, 
Christina Roaf, David Robey, e J. R. Woodhouse. Oxford: 
Clarendom Press, 1988. Pp. 191-210. 

Per stabilire il tipo di sintassi e la struttura dell’ottava usate nel contesto 
dell’opera del Cieco di Ferrara, la studiosa procede ad una paragone statistico tra 
un numero scelto di canti dell’/nnamorato e del Furioso. Si giunge alla 
conclusione che il Cieco ottiene nel Mambriano un livello sintattico pit 
sofisticato di quello mostrato dal Boiardo. 

52. Fumagalli, Edoardo. Matteo Maria Boiardo volgarizzatore 
dell’“Asino d’oro”. Contributo allo studio della fortuna di 
Apuleio. Padova: Antenore, 1988. Pp. 350. 

Lo studioso dimostra che il volgarizzamento apuleiano é attribuibile a Matteo 
Maria Boiardo perché dipendente dalla princeps di Apuleio del 1469. Si esclude 
quindi l’ipotesi che a compiere tale impresa fosse stato il nonno del Boiardo 
Feltrino, morto pit di dieci anni prima. Inoltre Fumagalli individua 
nell’incunabolo conservato alla Huntington Library di San Marino in California 
un testimone molto vicino a quello che dovette essere seguito dal Boiardo. Il 
fatto che tale volgarizzamento fu letto e ricercato non solo alla corte estense ma 
anche presso quella gonzaghesca di Mantova e l’esistenza delle citazioni di 
Niccolo da Correggio e Galeotto Del Carretto, tutto contribuisce a rendere 
l’Apulegio volgare qualcosa di pit che un episodio isolato della vita cortigiana. 
53. Harris, Neil. Bibliografia dell’“Orlando innamorato”. Saggio 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 279 


analitico, illustrazioni, indici. Modena: Edizioni Panini, primo 
vol., 1988; secondo vol. 1991. 

L’opera di questo appassionato studioso di Boiardo € uno strumento 
indispensabile per chi voglia soffermarsi sulle vicende tipografiche e le varie fasi 
di ricezione e contraffazione del testo boiardesco. Neil Harris ha lavorato su sette 
aree di ricerca diverse: 1) le edizioni del testo originale stampate prima del 1500; 
2) le edizioni del testo originale con aggiunte (Nicold Degli Agostini, Raffaele 
Valcieco di Verona, Pierfrancesco dei Conti da Camerino); 3) il rifacimento del 
Berni; 4) la versione in sei libri del Domenichi; 5) la versione di quel 
Rimaneggiamento “raffazonata” da Michel Bonelli; 6) il rifacimento del Berni 
ristampato fra Sette e Ottocento; e 7) il recupero di Panizzi del 1830-31. E 
ciascuna di esse (nel secondo volume) ha generato monografie su queste vicende 
testuali. 

54. Marinelli, Peter V. Shaping the Ore: Image and Design in 
Canto I of “Orlando furioso”. “Modern Language Notes”. 1. 
Italian Issue (January 1988): 31-49. 

Lo studioso sostiene che |’Ariosto aveva presente mentalmente tutto 
l’Innamorato del Boiardo mentre componeva il Furioso. Cosi I’ Ariosto adoperava 
a piene mani vari punti del poema boiardesco per creare il materiale del suo 
primo canto. Impiegando la tecnica della compressione e della ripetizione, 
Ariosto inizio a concettualizzare il testo di Boiardo ed a emblemacizzare azioni ed 
immagini. 

55. Montagnani, Cristina. Per Il’edizione  dell’“Orlando 
innamorato”: una _ premessa linguistica. “Studi di filologia 
Italiana” 46 (1988): 31-61. 

Per riconsiderare criticamente il testo dell’ /nnamorato occorre prendere come base 
il manoscritto Trivulziano (T) e le sue due pit antiche stampe, Venezia 1487 (P) 
e Venezia 1506 (R). La Montagnani e la Tissoni Benvenuti hanno come scopo 
quello di esaminare, in una nuova prospettiva, i rapporti fra i pid antichi 
testimoni. In questo saggio la Montagnani ha dato un primo contributo allo 
studi di T. 

56. Praloran, Marco e Tizi, Marco. Narrare in ottave: metrica e 
stile dell’“Innamorato”. Premessa di Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo. 
Pisa: Nistri-Lischi, 1988. Pp. 295. 

Uno sguardo diverso sulla tecnica narrativa dell’7nnamorato sembra annunciato 
dalle analisi recentissime di Praloran condotte su un confronto dei testi pit 
diffusi della tradizione cavalleresca francese e della tradizione canterina italiana. 
Partendo da osservazioni metrico-ritmiche sulla morfologia dell’ ottava canterina e 
boiardesca, si giunge qui a prospettare nell’/nnamorato la ricostruzione cosciente 
di un clima epico tramite una narrazione volta sempre all’evento. Si perviene alla 
definizione di un Boiardo “commentatore in presa diretta” pili che “romanziere”. 
57. Ross, Charles. Boiardo and the Derangement of Epic. 
“Renaissance Papers” (1988): 77-97. 


280 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


Qui si esprime il concetto di “derangement” come alterazione di valori epici del 
buono e del diabolico effettuata dal Boiardo, che crea un poema per la corte di 
Ferrara politicamente conservatrice ma culturalmente innovatrice. 

58. Ross, Charles Stanley. Orlando innamorato by Matteo Maria 
Boiardo. Trans. with an introduction and notes by Charles 
Stanley Ross. Foreword by Allen Mandelbaum. English verse 
edited by Anne Finnigan. Los Angeles: California UP, 1988. 
Quest’ opera é la prima completa traduzione in inglese dell’Jnnamorato del 
Boiardo. Tale avvenimento rappresenta una pietra miliare per l’epica 
rinascimentale, rinfocolando le speranze che i lettori e gli studiosi di lingua 
inglese-americana possano raggiungere una migliore comprensione di un testo 
cosi cruciale per la letteratura italiana. I] testo italiano, qui ristampato, é 
l’edizione di Aldo Scaglione (1963, seconda edizione) dal momento che il Ross 
non ha potuto usufruire della nuova edizione che si sta preparando a cura delle 
studiose Antonia Tissoni Benvenuti e Cristina Montagnani. L’introduzione é 
divisa in tre sezioni: nella prima il Ross si sofferma sulla accoglienza di Boiardo 
nel mondo inglese; nella seconda si delineano la vita e le opere del Boiardo, e, 
infine, nella terza, il Ross spiega dettagliatamente le aperture dei canti e il torneo 
del canto II che i lettori moderni hanno difficolta ad apprezzare. L’inglese di Ross 
si presenta semplice e diretto. La traduzione evita un adeguamento troppo alla 
lettera privilegiando l’oralita stilistica di Boiardo. 

59. Tizi, Marco. Elementi di tradizione lirica nell’“Orlando 
innamorato”: presenze e funzioni. In Narrare in ottave. Metrica e 
stile nell’“Innamorato”. Pisa: Nistri-Lischi, 1988. 

Lo studioso si concentra sull’uso del codice lirico nel contesto narrativo 
dell’/nnamorato. Tuttavia gli elementi di connessione formale tra testo emissario 
e testo immissario nel caso del Boiardo possono mancare o anche fornire 
indicazioni depistanti. 


1989 


60. Battera, Francesca. Recensione a: Edoardo Fumagalli, Matteo 
Maria Boiardo volgarizzatore dell’“Asino d’oro”. Contributo alla 
studio della fortuna di Apuleio nell’Umanesimo. Padova: 
Antenore, 1988. Pp. 352. In Studi e problemi di critica testuale 
39 (ottobre 1989): 209- 214. 

La studiosa sostiene che il lavoro di Fumagalli, pur meticoloso e denso di 
risultati, non risolve i problemi sollevati dal volgarizzamento. II fatto di aver 
attribuito a Matteo Maria il volgarizzamento edito nel 1518 non apre uno 
spiraglio sulla sua gestazione e sulle relazioni che presumibilmente intreccia con 
il precedente del nonno Feltrino. 

61. Bigi, Emilio. La poesia latina del Boiardo. In Poesia latina e 
volgare nel Rinascimento Italiano. Napoli: Morano, 1989. Pp. 
79-100. 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 281 


Per la poesia latina I’ Ariosto si ricollega ad una tradizione ferrarese di cui il Bigi 
ricostruisce la fisionomia caratterizzandone i diversi passaggi: dalla maniera 
semplice e discorsiva della fase iniziale, fino alla meta del Quattrocento, alla 
svolta in direzione di una poesia piu ricca, pill difficile e peregrina impressa dal 
Boiardo. 

62. Bruscagli, Riccardo. Prove di commento all’“Orlando 
innamorato”. “Studi Italiani” 1, 2 (1989): 5-29. 

Lo studioso prende in considerazione l’esistenza di significativi apporti della 
cultura classica nell’Orlando innamorato. Tale impostazione risulta originale 
perché a lungo i critici sono stati propensi a vedere nel Boiardo uno scrittore 
sostanzialmente istintivo e refrattario alla tradizione colta. 

63. Davis, Elizabeth Hunt. Ph. D. Bryn Mawr College. DAI 
(Dissertation Abstract Index, title: “Between Poetic Truth and 
Historical Falsehood: Fictions of Chivarly in Boiardo’s Orlando 
innamorato. 1988, pp. 302), Febr. 1989, 49:8, 2240A. 

Costruito sullo schema di un poema epico caricatura di sé, l’/nnamorato tenta di 
preparare la corte estense ed i loro cortigiani ad interagire in una nuova societa 
del Cinquecento, dove la forza organizzativa é rappresentata dalla cortesia e dalla 
cavalleria. 

64. Franceschetti, Antonio. La novella nei poemi del Boiardo e 
dell’Ariosto. In La novella italiana. Atti del Convegno di 
Caprarola (19-24 settembre 1988). Roma: Salerno, 1989, Tomo 
II, pp. 805-840. 

Il Boiardo ha assunto la novella, nel poema cavalleresco, soprattutto per mostrare 
le capacita di assorbimento e l’ampia gamma delle possibilita aperte al genere 
che egli cercava di caratterizzare. Come sintesi ideale di differenti esperienze 
letterarie, 1’Ariosto ha inteso perfettamente il valore di quella innovazione a 
livello di poetica, ma ha preferito estendere la portata della sua lezione facendo di 
quei momenti delle parti integranti nella struttura del libro. Franceschetti 
ricostruisce anche la storia dell’identificazione delle novelle negli indici delle 
edizioni cinquecentesche. 

65. Harris, Neil. Notes on Milton and the “Orlando innamorato”: 
The Albraca Simile in “Paradise Regained”. “Rivista di 
letterature moderne e comparate” 42 (1989): 325-347. 

Milton dipende molto dalla versione berniana dell’/nnamorato. Harris insiste su 
questo punto, sostenendo anche che Berni, molto pit! che Boiardo, denigra 
continuamente il paladino Orlando. 

66. Miller, Leo. Milton’s “Oxenbridge” Boiardo Validated. 
“Milton Quarterly” 23 (1989): 26-28. 

Nella biblioteca dell’Universita dell’Illinois esiste un volume contenente 
l’Innamorato del Boiardo insieme ai tre libri di Nicolé Degli Agostini, gia 
riformati dal Domenichi (Venezia 1608). Tale stampa reca un’indicazione di 
appartenenza a Daniel Oxenbridge che la dono all’amico John Milton. Con gli 


282 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


studi recenti, particolarmente quelli di Neil Harris, riguardanti la conoscenza di 
Boiardo da parte di Milton, si ripresenta attuale il problema della validita 
dell’iscrizione Oxenbridge e dell’appartenenza a Milton del volume della 
biblioteca dell’ Universita dell’ Illinois. 

67. Robey, David, e Marco Dorigatti (a c. di) M. M. Boiardo: 
“Orlando innamorato”. The Machine-Readable Text, Microfiche 
Concordance and Rhyme Dictionary, with Related Statistical 
Data. Oxford: Oxford University Computing Service, 1989. 
Fornire un’opera come Il’Innamorato di concordanze e rimario significa 
riconoscere in essa un classico ed anche vuol dire che l’interesse per il Boiardo si 
sta ormai spostando dalla narrazione al testo. Concordanze e rimario offrono 
V’opportunita di sondare i valori propriamente formali del poema epico 
boiardesco. Mentre il testo stampato permetteva solo una lettura sequenziale, 
secondo l’ordine stabilito dall’autore, quello computerizzato trascende questa 
costrizione, consentendo la lettura simultanea di luoghi testuali che possono 
essere anche estremi. 

68. Santoro, Mario. Ariosto e il Rinascimento. Napoli: Liguori, 
1989, pp. 383. 

Sempre nell’ambito di un confronto tra l’Innamorato e il Furioso, il Mario 
Santoro apporta spunti acuti ed interessanti al problema, insistendo sul fatto che 
fra Boiardo e Ariosto c’é il 1494. C’é la crescente cognizione, nella coscienza dei 
contemporanei, di una realta segnata da irrazionalita e da violenza, di fronte agli 
incalzanti e sconvolgenti eventi della situazione politica e sociale. 

69. Staebler, Mark. Selections from  Boiardo’s “Orlando 
innamorato”. Preface by Paolo Valesio. American University 
Studies, 2: Romance Languages and Literatures, 101. New York: 
Lang, 1989. Pp. XVII-466. 

Staebler ha tradotto il primo canto dell’/nnamorato ed ha eseguito felicemente 
una scelta di canti trattati come episodi. In tutto l’autore ha tradotto un ottavo del 
poema; il testo italiano é a fronte. Il volume, che contiene una prefazione di 
Paolo Valesio, una lunga introduzione di Staebler, un sommario completo della 
trama ed una selezione dell’Orlando innamorato di Robert Tofte del 1598, 
rappresenta una buona introduzione al Boiardo presso un pubblico anglo- 
americano che non é in grado di accedere al testo originale. 


1990 


70. Anselmi, Gian Mario. Boiardo e i classici antichi. “Quaderni 
del giornale filologico ferrarese. Umanesimo Ferrarese”. Ferrara: 
Industrie Grafiche, 1990. Pp. 3-7. 

L’autore sottolinea in particolare la visitazione di un testo fondamentale per 
l’intera cultura padana, quell’Asino d’oro di Apuleio che, commentato nella 
vicina Bologna da Beroaldo, si costituira come referente essenziale nella 
letteratura rinascimentale di tutta Europa: dal livello pit magico e fantastico caro 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 283 


al Boiardo, a quello iniziatico allegorico vicino ai filosofi ermetici ed ai 
nicodemisti veneti-padani dell’era Tridentina. 

71. Baldan, Paolo. Marfisa: nascita e carriera di una regina 
amazzone. In L’intrigo e Vavventura (tra Ligurio e Orlando). 
Contributi e proposte. Collana di letteratura italiana diretta da 
Mario Pozzi. Alessandria: Edizioni dell’Orso, 1990. Pp. 72- 83. 
Il nome e la funzione di Marfisa, Marthesia, vengono consegnati, quasi 
sicuramente, al Boiardo dopo aver percorso una strada che da Giustino, passando 
per Orosio, giunge sino al Boccaccio (Teseida del commento di Pier Andrea dei 
Bassi, Ferrara 1475). 

72. Baldan, Paolo. Un tempestivo continuatore del Boiardo (su 
Nicolo degli Agostini). Recensione a : Elisabetta Baruzzo. 
Niccolo Degli Agostini continuatore del Boiardo. Pisa, 1983. 
Pp. 158. In L’intrigo e l’avventura (tra Ligurio e Orlando). 
Alessandria: Edizioni dell’Orso, 1990. Pp. 128-131. 

L’Agostini puo essere al tempo stesso tanto regressivo quanto innovativo 
rispetto al Boiardo. Le novita regressive consistono in una specie di irriflessa 
ricostituzione dei moduli canterini gia originalmente superati nell’ambito 
dell’/nnamorato. 

73. Baldan, Paolo. Sul Berni rifacitore dell’Jnnamorato. 
Recensione a H. F. Woodhouse. Language and Style in a 
Renaissance Epic: Berni’s Corrections to Boiardo’s “Orlando 
innamorato”. London: The Modern Humanities Research 
Association, 1982. Pp. 238. In L’intrigo e  l’avventura. 
Alessandria: Edizioni dell’Orso, 1990. Pp.132-137. 

Il grande merito di Woodhouse é quello di aver seguito e illuminato tutte le fasi 
del complesso ed articolatissimo lavoro bernesco. Lo ha fatto da linguista e 
storico della lingua. 

74. Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. L’impresa come ritratto del 
Rinascimento. Napoli: Loffredo, 1990. 

Per quanto riguarda l’opera di Boiardo sui Tarocchi I’autrice tenta di approfondire, 
in vari punti del libro, il rapporto fra iconografia (iconologia) impresistica e 
tarocchi. Poiché nell’/nnamorato (I, 5:70) Boiardo descrive decisamente una 
sfinge egizia, la Bregoli-Russo giunge alla conclusione che alla Corte Estense di 
Ferrara, sede del Boiardo, era vivida una cultura rivolta agli studi sui geroglifici 
degli antichi Egizi (184). 

75. Calzone, Sergio. La foresta abitata. In Teoria e storia dei 
generi letterari.I mondi impossibili: Vutopia. Torino: Tirrenia 
Stampatori, 1990. Pp. 65-80. 

L’autore sostiene che non bisogna arrogare alla sola figura di Orlando precedenti 
letterari frutto di incrociarsi di generi: l’iniziazione di Ruggiero alle armi, cosi 
come ci é descritta nell’Jnnamorato (II, 16-17), ha certamente una parentela 
stretta con il conflittuale rapporto d’amore-abbandono che il Perceval di Chrétien 


284 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


de Troyes ha con la madre, ma, insieme, non €  strano ricordare l’analoga 
iniziazione di San Francesco: il celebre ripudio del padre terreno dell’ aprile 1207, 
la sua “conversione” (Ruggiero, maomettano, si convertira anche lui grazie 
all’eremita), il suo farsi predicatore errante, il suo prevedibile destino di rapida 
morte terrena. 

76. Canova, Andrea. Una traccia della princeps dell’“Orlando 
innamorato”? “Italia medioevale umanistica” 33 (1990): 355-358. 
Viene pubblicata una lettera del vescovo Ludovico Gonzaga a Ruffino 
Gabbioneta, 9 giugno 1484, in cui si accusa ricevuta del “libro volgare” di 
Orlando. I] Canova riconosce in quell’opera l’accenno ad una copia della editio 
princeps dell’ Orlando innamorato di Matteo Maria Boiardo stampata tra il 1482 e 
il 1483. La lettera di Ludovico costituirebbe una precoce attestazione della 
diffusione del poema. 

77. Dorigatti, Marco. Concordanze, rimario e testo critico: il 
caso Boiardo. “Studi e problemi di critica testuale” 40 (1990): 
51-67. 

Dorigatti riporta qui, con leggeri mutamenti, la relazione presentata al convegno 
organizzato dall’Istituto di Studi Rinascimentali, Ferrara, 25-28 maggio 1989. In 
essa vi si afferma che l’iniziativa delle concordanze del rimario dell’ Innamorato 
proviene, come la rinascita del testo originale, dal paese che ospit6d l’esule 
Panizzi. E sebbene non paragonabile all’impresa operata dal Panizzi, questa le si 
unisce a complemento nel favorire quella finale restaurazione del testo critico 
ormai tanto attesa. 

78. Franceschetti, Antonio. L’allegoria nell’“Orlando 
innamorato” del Boiardo e del Berni. In La Corte di Ferrara e il 
suo mecenatismo 1441-1598. A c. di Marianne Pade, Lene Waage 
Peterson e Daniela Quarta. Modena: Panini, 1990. Pp. 177-188. 
Lo studioso presenta alcune sue perplessita sull’opera di Michael Murrin, 
Allegorical Epic (1980), per quanto riguarda l’allegoria nel poema boiardesco. 
L’Innamorato & umn’opera che ha bisogno di un pubblico che comprenda e 
condivida quelle esperienze: non perché sia l’autore ad adeguarsi agli ideali del 
suo pubblico, ma perché questi ideali coincidono con quelli dell’autore. Col 
Berni ci troviamo di fronte al caso del poeta che cerca di coprire la distanza 
esistente fra l’opera ed il suo lettore, perché condizionato dal gusto del suo 
ambiente. Franceschetti riconosce a Dionisotti e a Bruscagli il merito di aver 
sottolineato la crisi in cui va incontro il poema cavalleresco nell’arco dell’ ultimo 
ventennio del Quattrocento. Per questo motivo la situazione muta 
completamente quando passiamo dall’Jnnamorato del Boiardo a quello del Berni. 
79. Franceschetti, Antonio. Recensione a: Edoardo Fumagalli. 
Matteo Maria Boiardo  volgarizzatore dell’“Asino d’oro”’. 
Contributo allo studio della fortuna di Apuleio nell’ Umanesimo. 
Padova: Antenore, 1988. Pp. 352. “Lettere italiane” (Aprile- 
giugno 1990): 335-340. 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 285 


Franceschetti considera il lavoro di Fumagalli un passo in avanti fondamentale 
negli studi sul Boiardo e si augura che un maggior numero di studiosi si 
interessino alle altre traduzioni dello Scandianese. 

80. Larivaille, Paul. Poeta, principe, pubblico dall’“Orlando 
innamorato” all’“Orlando furioso”. In La Corte di Ferrara e il 
suo mecenatismo. A c. di Marianne Pade, Lene Waage Petersen e 
Daniela Quarta. Modena: Panini, 1990. Pp. 9-32. 

Lo studioso porta esempi del Boiardo e dell’ Ariosto sufficienti a dimostrare 
quanto, sotto le apparenti analogie ed affinita delle materie trattate, dei pubblici e 
perfino dei gusti, le opere di due poeti, vicini nel tempo e nello spazio, possano 
differire in funzione della personalita, delle condizioni sociali e materiali proprie 
di ciascuno, degli avvenimenti e della storia che modifica 1 rapporti fra scrittori e 
pubblico. 

81. Luparia, Paolo (a c. di). Rassegna bibliografica. “Giornale 
storico della letteratura italiana” 167 (1990): 82-135. 

Luparia recensisce molti e notevoli volumi nella sua rassegna: l’edizione delle 
opere del Boiardo a cura dell’ Ulivi (1986), la ristampa anastatica dell’ edizione 
Piero da Piasi 1487 dell’Jnnamorato a cura di Neil Harris (1987); J libri di 
Orlando innamorato (1987); opera del Fumagalli sul volgarizzamento 
dell’Asino d’oro (1988); il lavoro di Praloran e Tizi sulla metrica e stile 
dell’/nnamorato; e, infine, il grande lavoro di Alexandre Gras sull’eroismo 
cavelleresco nell’/nnamorato. 

82. Looney, Dennis. Recent Trends in Ariosto Criticism: 
“Intricati rami e aer fosco”. Modern philology 88 (1990): 153- 
165. 

Dennis Looney recensisce tre saggi sull’ Ariosto. Vorrei segnalare in questa sede 
la sua discussione nei riguardi del libro di Peter V. Marinelli, Ariosto and 
Boiardo (1987). Marinelli parla dell’/nnamorato come subtesto del Furioso 
stabilendo una relazione fra i due poemi nei termini di palinsesto. Looney critica 
la nozione di palinsesto perché troppo semplificatrice rispetto alla poetica 
dell’ Ariosto ed alla straordinaria intertestualita del Furioso. 

83. Mazzacurati, Giancarlo. Le carte del Boiardo (Giochi d’amore 
e di Tarocchi). In Ecrire a la fin du Moyen-Age. Le Pouvoir et 
L’écriture en Espagne et en Italie (1450-1530). Aix-En-Provence 
Cedex i: Publ. Univ. De Provence, 1990. Pp. 269-300. 

Lo studioso discetta sui tarocchi boiardeschi come mezzi per ribadire la 
disponibilita dell’intera manifattura lirica boiardesca all’ordine geometrico ed alle 
sequenze sistematiche. Una vocazione, quella di Boiardo, che poteva anche 
prestarsi alla disseminazione spettacolare delle carte poetiche, in funzione 
dell’intrattenimento e della comunicazione sociale a corte. 

84. Micocci, Claudia (introduzione e note a c. di). M. M. 
Boiardo. Canzoniere (Amorum Libri). Milano: Garzanti, 1990. 
Pp. XXXVI-244. 


286 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


Per il testo delle liriche la studiosa riproduce qui |’edizione critica degli Amorum 
Libri di Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo. Per quanto riguarda l’apparato di note, la 
Micocci ha tenuto presente tutte le edizioni annotate, a cominciare da quelle di 
Panizzi, Solerti, Steiner, fino alle piu recenti di Zottoli, Scaglione e Ulivi. 
L’introduzione @ suddivisa in tre parti: la vita, gli Amorum Libri ed una guida 
bibliografica. Ottimo lavoro! 

85. Molinari, Cesare. Caratteri del Boiardo lirico nella 
verseggiatura tragico-satirica di Gian Battista Giraldi. “Studi di 
filologia italiana” 48 (1990): 43-80. 

Dopo aver attentamente vagliato, alla luce delle formulazioni contenutistiche nel 
Discorso intorno al comporre dei romanzi, alcune caratteristiche prosodiche della 
satira, il Molinari giunge a questa conclusione: nella stesura dell’Egle é il 
Boiardo dell’Amorum Libri a guidare le scelte del Giraldi, pit del Petrarca, del 
Bembo e dell’ Ariosto. 

86. Montagnani, Cristina. Fra mito e magia: le “ambages” dei 
cavalieri boiardeschi. “Rivista di letteratura italiana” 8 (1990): 
261-285. 

Il Boiardo dell’/nnamorato, nei suoi rapporti con i modelli, procede secondo una 
traiettoria (in senso trasversale) che va dalla fonte classica, alla sua 
contaminazione con quella romana, ad un classicismo pill chiaramente accusato 
nel terzo libro. La Montagnani apporta esempi convincenti e mette in evidenza le 
modalita intertestuali: si va dalla “duplicazione” nel continuum narrativo di 
alcuni miti, alla loro rielaborazione e ricomparsa in segmenti lontani del testo, 
all’allusione a “mode culturali, come quella relativa ad Ercole presso la corte 
estense. 

87. Praloran, Marco. Meraviglioso artificio: tecniche narrative e 
rappresentative nell’“Orlando innamorato”. L’Unicorno. Collana 
di Testi e di Critica Letteraria diretta da Luigi Blasucci. Lucca: 
Pacini Fazzi, 1990. 

Meraviglioso non é solo il tema delle avventure, ma anche la strategia formale 
con cui esse vengono raccontate, dice Praloran. La strategia risulta dal modo in 
cui Boiardo e Ariosto conducono I|’entrelacement. Cosi, in via preliminare, ecco 
la necessita di indagare le caratteristiche dell’ entrelacement in due testi modello 
per l’Innamorato, il Lancelot e il Guron courtois. Il punto di Praloran é questo: 
Boiardo si serve dell’entrelacement, che nei romanzi arturiani é tecnica 
conoscitiva, con finalita pili) moderne di suspense e di tensione. Il poema 
presenta un’altissima densita di accadimenti, narrati perd in un tempo 
praticamente reale. Ad un esame approfondito della rappresentazione scenica in 
un episodio esemplare, la battaglia di Montealbano, Prarolan dedica il secondo 
capitolo del libro. Il terreno epico consente al Boiardo di sperimentare un tipo di 
narrazione “a fuochi aperti” con una “continua transizione tra centro e centro”. Le 
conclusioni che emergono sono le seguenti: lo stile dell’/nnamorato e la 
narrazione affrontano gli stessi valori prediletti del mondo figurativo del secondo 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 287 


Quattrocento, cioé la rappresentazione della forza, del movimento, la spezzatura, 
i bruschi passaggi tonali e prospettici. 

88. Pade, Marianne, Lene Waage Petersen e Daniela Quarta (a c. 
di). La Corte di Ferrara e il suo mecenatismo 1441- 1598. The 
Court of Ferrara and its Patronage. Atti del convegno 
internazionale. Copenaghen, maggio 1987, pubblicati dal Forum 
for Renaessance-studier Kosbenhauns’ Universitet, in 
collaborazione con I’Istituto di Studi Rinascimentali. Ferrara: 
stampato in Danimarca, 1990. Pp. 367. 

Il convegno di Copenaghen (21-23 maggio 1987), di cui il libro costituisce la 
raccolta degli atti, ha avuto come scopo lo studio delle relazioni tra 
signore/principe e intellettuale, tra le arti e le scienze in una corte umanistico- 
rinascimentale. La scelta d’individuare come modello Ferrara é nata dal fatto che 
la citta e il suo territorio furono sotto la signoria estense per un periodo 
straordinariamente lungo rispetto all’instabilita delle altre signorie italiane. 


1991 

89. Acocella, Maria Antonietta. Alcune considerazioni su 
Boiardo traduttore. “Schifanoia” 11 (1991): 63-79. 

Boiardo, secondo |’ autrice, poteva forse masticare male il greco, di cui aveva pur 
appreso qualche rudimento, ma la sua conoscenza del latino é indiscutibile, data 
la formazione umanistica da lui ricevuta e il suo esordio letterario come poeta 
latino con 1 Carmina de Laudibus Estensium (1463) ei Pastoralia (1463-64). In 
quest’ultima raccolta Boiardo non nascose I’ambizione di diventare il “Virgilio 
estense“ per cantare in versi epici le gesta di Ercole I d’Este. Per il versante 
volgare non si pu dire che Boiardo non possedesse la sensibililta linguistica per 
distinguere la capacita del volgare di assorbire dei latinismi crudi nel suo 
contesto, come dimostra l’elaborazione lessicale degli Amorum Libri che avviene 
negli anni 1466-76. 

90. Anselmi, Gian Mario. Recensione a: Edoardo Fumagalli. 
Matteo Maria Boiardo volgarizzatore dell’“Asino d’oro”’. 
Contributo allo studio della fortuna di Apuleio nell’Umanesimo. 
Padova: Antenore, 1988. Pp. 352. “Critica letteraria” (1991): 
404-406. 

Anselmi ribadisce soprattutto la necessita di guardare a tutta l’opera di 
volgarizzatore del Boiardo, opera constantemente volta all’universo della 
narrativa, all’interesse primario per le storie antiche e medievali. Proprio entro 
questa vocazione narrativa del Boiardo si colloca l’approccio ad Apuleio, maestro 
per eccellenza dell’affabulazione romanzesca antica. Diversamente da Bologna, 
ove i professori umanisti e Beroaldo, attirati dall’introspezione della glossa 
erudita, si accostano proprio all’ Apuleio maestro di saperi iniziatici. Tra Ferrara e 
Bologna dunque si gioca intorno ad Apuleio una partita di non poco conto per la 
nostra tradizione letteraria. 


288 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


91. Benvenuti, Antonia Tissoni. Di alcuni nuovi_ studi 
sull’“Innamoramento de Orlando’. “Rivista di letteratura 
italiana” 9, 1-2 (1991): 181-193. 

La Tissoni Benvenuti fa qui il punto su alcuni nuovi studi sull’Jnamoramento de 
Orlando, titolo autenticamente legalizzato dell’ opera boiardesca. Si parla di Maria 
Cristina Cabani, di Marco Praloran, Marco Tizi, Neil Harris, ecc. La studiosa é 
convinta che la limitata fortuna dell’/nnamorato risieda nella sua provincialita 
linguistica, e cioé nell’incompatibilita del genere cavalleresco di illustre 
ascendenza medievale con la nostra tradizione retorica d’impianto classico, 
forgiata su altri modelli. La ricerca della Cabani (Le forme del cantare epico 
-cavalleresco) risulta utilissima per il futuro commento all’/nnamorato, non solo 
per l’abbondante messe di riscontri ma soprattutto per aver posto in rilievo la 
connessione tra i modi narrativi tipici dei cantari e la destinazione spettacolare del 
genere, |’oralita. 

92. Bigi, Emilio. Gli studi boiardeschi dell’ultimo ventennio. 
“Cultura e scuola” (1991): 32-40. 

Lo studioso mette in rilievo la tendenza della critica attuale a soffermarci su 
argomenti specifici, tecnico-formali, inerenti all’opera del Boiardo. Il Bigi 
conclude la sua rassegna con una raccomandazione: “chi intenda rendersi conto 
della indubbia originalita artistica del Boiardo, deve puntare non tanto su una sua 
calcolata e consapevole misura e disciplina stilistica e narrativa, quanto invece 
sulla sua “dismisura”, sul suo aggressivo dinamismo e sul suo ilare e vigoroso 
Starei per dire espressionismo. .. .” 

93. Cavallo, Jo Ann. A Note on Dante in Boiardo. “Lectura 
Dantis” 8 (Spring 1991): 100-107. 

La Cavallo esamina il ruolo della Commedia nell’Innamorato per quanto riguarda 
la concezione dell’amore. 

94. Curti, Luca. Vigaso Cocaio. “Rivista di letteratura italiana” 
9, 1-2 (1991): 119-176. 

Teofilo Folengo mori nel 1544. Tra le sue carte restava incompiuta l’ultima 
redazione della Macaronee. Nel 1551 il librario Giovanni Varisco otteneva dal 
senato veneto il privilegio di stampa per la nuova Macaronea di Merlino. Nel 
1552 a Venezia usciva a stampa la definiva redazione del Baldus e della 
macaronee minori, detta “Vigaso Cocaio” (0 “di Vigaso Cocaio”) dal nome 
dell’autore di una “‘lettera alli lettori” che fu stampata come prefazione all’ opera. 
Fondamento del discorso di Luca Curti é il testo volgare di Vigaso Cocaio, in 
cui il rifacimento dell’Jnnamorato del Boiardo, che il Folengo aveva ormai 
condotto a compimento, non é soltanto annunciato ma descritto. Luca Curti 
pone come ipotesi che tale rifacimento sia quello di Ludovico Domenichi. 

95. Franceschetti, Antonio. Il Boiardo e lavvio del “Furioso”’. 
In Miscellanea di studi in Onore di Marco Pecoraro. Da Dante al 
Manzoni. A c. di Bianca Maria Da Rif e Claudio Griggio. 
Firenze: Leo Olschki, 1991. Pp. 111-130. 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 289 


Lo studioso ribadisce la necessita di un controllo e di una verifica del Furioso nei 
suoi rapporti con |’/nnamorato per una comprensione piu puntuale ed accurata 
dello spirito dell’opera, degli ideali del suo autore, dei suoi intenti e dei suoi 
propositi nella composizione del poema. Per chi voglia evitare di “perdersi” nel 
Furioso, il poema del Boiardo rappresenta il punto di partenza da cui é 
indispensabile muoversi: e nel campo degli studi di quello che costituisce uno dei 
capolavori del Rinascimento e di tutta la tradizione letteraria d’ Italia, questo 
lavoro resta ancora quasi tutto da fare. 

96. Mancini, Albert N. Recensione a: Orlando Innamorato by 
Matteo Maria Boiardo. Translated with an introduction and notes 
by Charles Stanley Ross. Berkeley: University of California 
Press, 1989. Pp. 891. “The Sixteenth Century Journal” 22 IV, 4 
(1991): 835-838. 

Recensione assolutamente positiva dell’ opera del Ross. Mancini deplora soltanto 
la scarsezza di annotazioni e la mancanza di riferimenti ad opere di critici italiani 
come Emilio Bigi, Remo Ceserani, Ferruccio Ulivi e Marco Praloran. Tuttavia 
il testo viene dichiarato fondamentale e degno di nota per lettori e pubblico 
anglofoni. 

97. Ross, Charles. False Fame in “Paradise Regained”: The 
Siege of Albraca. In Mario A. Di Cesare. Milton in Italy 
Contexts Images Contradictions. Binghamton: MRTS, 1991. Pp. 
381-403. 

Un riferimento all’/nnamorato di Matteo Maria Boiardo si rinviene nel Paradise 
Regained di Milton quando la visione di Satana dei Parti e degli Sciti in guerra 
viene paragonata ad una battaglia inventata dal poeta italiano quattrocentesco. Nel 
passo citato dell’opera di Milton si parla di Agricane e di Albracca. Cosi, 
conclude Ross, la geografia favolosa di Boiardo che si situa nell’ Asia centrale 
coincide con quella dei Parti di Satana. 

98. Tartaro, Achille. Sulle tracce dell’epos. In Lo spazio 
letterario di Roma antica. A c. di G. Cavallo, F. Fedeli, A. 
Giardina. Vol. 4. L’attualizzazione del testo. Roma: Salerno 
Editrice, 1991. Pp. 213-214. 

Dall’autore dei Carmina e dei Pastoralia ci aspetteremmo nell’Jnnamorato ben 
oltre una traccia della sua formazione umanistica. Al contrario, il prodotto 
maggiore del primo Rinascimento ferrarese resta tutto all’interno della letteratura 
romanza. Boiardo, sostiene Tartaro, é fermo nel rispetto dei confini. Scelta la sua 
strada, la percorre fino in fondo senza deviazioni. Da una parte l’epica classica e 
il latino, dall’altra le ambages dei cavalieri e il volgare. Muovendo di qui, al 
riparo da ogni tentazione di confronto con I’epica classica, Boiardo da forma a un 
epos signorile e cortigiano. 

99. Trovato, Paolo. Con ogni diligenza corretto. La stampa e le 
revisioni editoriali dei testi letterari italiani (1470-1570). 
Bologna: Il Mulino, 1991. Pp. 410. 


290 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


Tra la fine del 1553 ed i primi mesi del 1555 il Ruscelli, nel suo Brieve discorso 
che correda l’edizione del Compendio del Collenuccio, offre un primo 
inquadramento della situazione filologica-linguistica del tempo. Secondo Ruscelli 
al tempo del Collenuccio si usava una lingua mista cortigiana, pil o meno 
vicino alla toscana, ma senza regole né ornamenti come quella usata 
nell’/namoramento de Orlando di Boiardo e nelle sue storie d’Erodoto tradotte dal 
greco. Pur tuttavia c’erano esigenze linguistiche sentite dai contemporanei che 
erano abituati a testi corretti e regolati. Di qui, di conseguenza, viene messa in 
luce la funzione del “correttore” presso le case editrici del tempo. Paolo Trovato 
osserva che tra 1 testi di consumo, ampliati e contaminati continuamente, quello 
dell’/nnamorato rifatto dal Domenichi é tra i pill sfortunati. Nell’ edizione Bonelli 
del 1576 il diciannovesimo canto del secondo libro inizia “con tre ottave berniane 
alle quali seguono nove della Riforma, un’altra berniana, poi un’altra del 
Domenichi e cosi via”. 


1992 


100. Beer, Marina. Alcune’ osservazioni' sulla novella 
nell’Orlando innamorato. In Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana 
fra Quattro e Cinquecento. Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini 
Editore, 1992. Pp. 143-160. 

Le novelle nell’/nnamorato sono presentate dal narratore come illustrazione o 
esemplificazione di una massima o di un comportamento che ne rivela 
l’ascendenza nella tradizione novellistica. S’inseriscono sempre nella cornice 
romanzesca per Caratterizzare un personaggio, oppure una situazione tra narratore 
e narratari. 

101. Benvenuti, Antonia Tissoni. JI] terzo libro, ovvero “El fin 
del Inamoramento d’Orlando”. In Tipografie e romanzi in Val 
Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. Ferrara: Franco Cosimo 
Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 29-44. 

Il terzo libro del poema presenta una configurazione filologica diversa e distinta 
dai primi due. Infatti accanto ai testimoni del poema completo si pone una 
stampa (Q) che contiene solo il terzo libro. La Benvenuti sostiene che Q 
rappresenta un testimone importante e noto ma sfortunato. Se ne ha la 
descrizione nella Bibliografia di Neil Harris. 

102. Bruni, Francesco. L’italiano nelle regioni. Lingua 
nazionale e identita regionali. Torino: UTET, 1992. 

Boiardo pratico tutti i gradi di scrittura: il latino umanistico e cancelleresco, il 
toscano letterario punteggiato ora di latino ora di volgare padano, il toscano delle 
scritture popolari, la lingua della conversazione e della poesia cortigiana fondata 
sulla koiné settentrionale. I] Boiardo visse anche il passaggio dall’epoca dei 
manoscritti a quella della stampa con le implicazini relative all’adeguamento 
linguistico per platee pit vaste degli uditori di corte. Il testo dell’/nnamorato 
determinO per un cinquantennio il gusto poetico e linguistico di letterati e 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 291 


stampatori non toscani: delle prime cinque edizioni (1483-1506) — varie 
migliaia di esemplari — sopravvivono in tutto quattro copie, il che dimostra 
l’intenso consumo del prodotto. La lingua del poema é una via di mezzo tra il 
cultismo delle liriche e la vernacolarita delle lettere, con escursioni nell’uno e 
nell’altro settore a seconda di quanto la materia lo richiedesse. Boiardo persegui 
un suo disegno di “umanesimo cavalleresco”. 

103. Bruscagli, Riccardo e Amedeo Quondam (a c. di). Tipografie 
e romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. Ferrara: 
Franco Cosimo Panini, 1992. 

L’opera rappresenta gli atti del convegno, Giornate di studio 11-13 febbraio 
1988, avvenuto presso 1’Istituto di Studi Rinascimentali a Ferrara. 

104. Carrai, Stefano. Primi appunti sulle presenze pulciane 
nell’“Innamorato”. In Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana fra 
Quattro e Cinquecento. Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore, 
1992. Pp. 107-116. 

Il Carrai presenta l’ipotesi di un Boiardo che lesse il poema di Pulci su un 
esemplare a stampa manoscritto, intorno al 1478, quando anche Ercole d’Este vi 
si appassiono. Boiardo lo riecheggiO scrivendo di getto i primi due libri 
dell’Jnnamorato nell’arco di pochi anni (1478-82). 

105. Casadei, Alberto. I “Cinque canti” o Vultima eredita di 
Boiardo. “Italianistica” 21 (1992): 739-748. 

I Cinque canti dell’ Ariosto avrebbero dovuto costituire la continuazione del 
primo Furioso ma che essi “ guardino indietro“ é evidente fin dalle prime ottave 
in cui si registra un buon numero di riferimenti all’Jnnamorato: il solo 
menzionare le vicende di Alcina e Morgana, di Fallerina e Dragontina provoca 
l’impressione di un ritorno alla preistoria del poema ariostesco. L’autore Casadei 
pone |’ipotesi, a questo punto, che i Cinque Canti rappresentino l’inizio di una 
continuazione che avrebbe dovuto portare a termine l’opera boiardesca 
nell’atmosfera cupa della futura morte di Ruggiero. 

106. Cottignoli, Alfredo. Dietro le quinte dei “Rerum”: Muratori 
fra Boiardo e Riccobaldo. In Per formare un’istoria intiera. 
Testimoni oculari, cronisti locali, custodi di memorie private 
nel progetto muratoriano. Atti della I giornata di_ studi 
muratoriani. (Vignola, 23 marzo 1991.) Firenze: Leo S. Olschki, 
1992. Pp. 63-72. 

Secondo il Cottignoli 1’/storia imperiale, ossia il celebre volgarizzamento 
boiardesco del Chronicon Imperatorum, attribuito a Riccobaldo, sarebbe in realta 
traduzione del Boiardo, nonostante i dubbi del Muratori. 

107. Davies, Christopher Ph. D. University of Reading (United 
Kingdom). DAI (Dissertation Abstract Index). Title: “An 
Analysis of How Humor Is Created in Boiardo’s Orlando 
innamorato”’11990, pp. 456). Ann Arbor, Michigan, July 1992. 
52:9, 2942A. 


292 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


L’argomento di questa dissertazione é I’analisi dei processi letterari attraverso cui 
Boiardo crea effetti umoristici nell’Jnnamorato ed i vari tipi di comico. Basandoci 
su moderne teorie umoristiche di Koestler, Bergson e Freud, |’autore esamina il 
“buffone“ Astolfo, l’“umiliato” Orlando e la relazione comico-umoristica di 
Rinaldo e Angelica. 

108. Davies, Christopher. Recensione a: Selections from 
Boiardo’s “Orlando innamorato”. By Mark Staebler. Preface by 
Paolo Valesio. American University Studies, 2: Romance 
Languages and Literature, 101. New York: Lang, 1989. Pp.xvii- 
466. “Modern Language Review” 87 (1992): 500-501. 

Benché la recensione all’ opera sia abbastanza favorevole, Davies ha tuttavia delle 
riserve per quanto riguarda la resa dell’ottava nella traduzione. Staebler non 
avrebbe rispettato l’ambiente storico del poema ed avrebbe talvolta usato 
espressioni anacronistiche devianti dal significato dato dal Boiardo. 

109. Dorigatti, Marco. Il boiardismo del primo “Furioso”. In 
Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. 
Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 161-174. 

Il primo Furioso, quello del 1516, resta il massimo omaggio reso al poeta 
scandianese. Ariosto si rivela conscio del fatto che ai suoi lettori la materia 
dell’Innamorato debba essere altrettanto familiare. Basandosi sulla lettera 
indirizzata dall’ Ariosto a Francesco Gonzaga (14 luglio 1512) Dorigatti sostiene 
che veramente Ariosto continuo |’invenzione (introduzione del personaggio 
Ruggiero) del Boiardo. L’eredita boiardesca e |’intento politico-encomiastico 
furono accolti e fedelmente adempiuti dall’ Ariosto. 

110. Ferraro, Bruno. Recensione a: Neil Harris. Bibliografia 
dell’“Orlando innamorato”. Volume secondo. Panini: Modena, 
1991. In Bibliothéque d’humanisme et Renaissance 54 (1992): 
288-290. 

In questo secondo volume Neil Harris raccoglie un gran numero di saggi sulle 
edizioni riportate nelle schede bibliografiche comprese nel primo volume. Questa 
bibliografia, dice Ferraro, si costituisce come strumento indispensabile per chi 
voglia soffermarsi sulle vicende tipografiche e le varie fasi di ricezione e di 
contraffazione del testo boiardesco. Il volume di Harris @ corredato di varie 
appendici sui testimoni quattro e cinquecenteschi del Boiardo, sulle continuazioni 
all’/nnamorato, su un numero di edizioni a cui fanno seguito ben sette utilissimi 
indici. 

111. Limentani, Alberto. L’“Entrée d’Espagne” e i signori 
d’Italia. A c. di Marco Infurna e Francesco Zambon. Padova: 
Antenore, 1992. Pp. XXVII-400. 

Negli ultimi anni della sua vita Alberto Limentani stava lavorando ad un 
progetto che ormai aveva assunto una fisionomia definitiva: quello di un libro 
dedicato all’Entrée d’ Espagne, nel quale egli pensava di utilizzare i numerosi 
saggi gia pubblicati sul poema franco-veneto integrandoli con nuove ricerche. La 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 293 


lettura di quest’opera é€ utile al boiardista per certi riscontri trasversali con 
V’Innamorato di Boiardo. 

112. Montagnani, Cristina. Verso l’edizione dell’“Orlando 
innamorato”: i testimoni pit antichi dei primi due libri”. In 
Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. 
Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 45-54. 

La Montagnani ed Antonia Tissoni Benvenuti hanno come scopo quello di 
esaminare in una nuova prospettiva i rapporti fra i pil antichi testimoni, 
dell’/nnamorato. Infatti se la ricostruzione congetturale della perduta princeps del 
1482-83 restera affidata alla sola testimonianza veneziana del 1487, l’esame delle 
stampe cinquecentesche del poema varra a gettare luce sulla postuma (e anch’essa 
perduta) edizione scandianese (1495) dell’opera nella sua forma integrale. 

113. Montecchi, Giorgio. La stampa a Scandiano alla fine del 
Quattrocento. In Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro 
e Cinquecento. Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore, 1992. 
Pp. 9-28. 

Per conoscere come il tipografo Pellegrino Pasquali progetto e produsse i libri 
scandianesi della fine del Quattrocento, basta analizzare gli esemplari delle sue 
edizioni giunte fino a noi e sopravvissute alle ingiurie del tempo: rimane la 
commedia di Matteo Maria Boiardo, il Timone, stampata nell’anno 1500. 

114. Pettinelli, Rosanna Alhaique. Lo scambio delle armi tra 
Amore e Morte: un tema ferrarese tra Quattro e Cinquecento. In 
Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. 
Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini, 1992. Pp. 85-93. 

L’ Angelica innamorata del ferrarese Vincenzo Brusantino risente di canoni 
inventivi e narrativi che, provenendo dal modello boiardesco, continuano a farsi 
presente, ancora in pieno Cinquecento, nel livello medio della grande produzione 
dei romanzi di cavalleria. 

115. Pettinelli, Rosanna Alhaique. Figure femminili nella 
tradizione cavalleresca tra Quattro e Cinquecento. “Italianistica” 
21 (1992): 727-738. 

Solo con il Boiardo i personaggi femminili acquistano una fisionomia 
particolare, una presenza piu fitta e variata nelle tipologie. In particolare egli ci 
offre una figura di donna tutta nuova, Angelica. 

116. Praloran, Marco. Il modello formale dell’entrelacement 
nell’“Orlando innamorato”’. In Tipografie e romanzi in Val 
Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. Ferrara: Franco Cosimo 
Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 117-127. 

L’entrelacement diventa per Boiardo una tecnica ricchissima ed artificiale che 
consente anticipi, ritardi, richiami nella linearita del racconto, col risultato di 
accentuare i valori emozionali che si appoggiano sui contenuti del racconto e 
sulla forma della narrazione. In modo simile a quanto ricorda Chastel per la 
prospettiva illusionistica del ’400. 


294 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


117. Quint, David. La fortuna di Morgana: dal Boiardo al 
Marino. In Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro e 
Cinquecento. Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 
99-106. 

Le imitazioni dell’episodio di Morgana, nella tradizione poetico-narrativa 
rinascimentale, costituiscono un capitolo di storia della recezione: nel loro 
insieme tali imitazioni forniscono una lettura coerente non solo dell’episodio, 
ma del poema intero dell’/nnamorato del quale l’episodio ¢ modello emblematico. 
118. Sandal, Ennio. Boiardo e refrigerio. In Tipografie e romanzi 
in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. In Tipografie e romanzi 
in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. Ferrara: Franco Cosimo 
Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 95-97. 

Margherita Gonzaga, moglie di Giovan Battista Refrigerio, era sorella minore di 
Taddea che, nel 1479, era andata sposa al conte Matteo Maria Boiardo. Di qui si 
deduce l’importanza di una biografia boiardesca che metterebbe in luce punti 
oscuri e nascoste relazioni sociali. 

119. Sangirardi, Giuseppe. La presenza del “Decameron” 
nell’“Orlando furioso”. “Rivista di letteratura italiana” 10, 1-2 
(1992): 25-67. 

Il saggio si riferisce al Furioso, ma € senza dubbio utilissimo per i riferimenti 
trasversali al poema epico boiardesco. 

120. Spaggiari, William. La “Romantic Poetry” di Antonio 
Panizzi e il ritorno al testo originale dell’“Innamorato”. In 
Tipografie Romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. 
Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 63-74. 

In Italia dovevano passare pit’ di dieci anni perché ci si accorgesse della 
“riscoperta” del Panizzi attraverso la pessima edizione dell’/nnamorato realizzata 
nel 1842 da Giuseppe Antonelli per cura dell’infaticabile Luigi Carrer, che 
dichiarava di rifarsi all’edizione Pasquali del 1495, ovviamente ridotta a “miglior 
lezione”. 

121. Weaver, Elissa. I narratori del Rifacimento berniano. In 
Tipografie e romanzi in Val Padana fra Quattro e Cinquecento. 
Ferrara: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore, 1992. Pp. 55-62. 

Le due riscritture dell’/nnamorato, quella del Domenichi e del Berni, tendono a 
sdoppiare stilisticamente il narratore. Oltre a quello stilistico esiste un altro tipo 
di sdoppiamento, molto pit distruttivo: il narratore del Rifacimento, nelle sue 
varie manifestazioni, esprime atteggiamenti diversi e contrastanti riguardo al 
soggetto ed all’ethos del poema. 


1993 

122. Balsamo, Luigi. Annals of G. A. Scinzenzeler, Printer in 
Milan: A Supplement. In The Italian Book 1465-1800. Studies 
presented to Dennis E. Rhodes on his 70th Birthday. Ed. Dennis 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 295 


V. Reidy. London: The British Library, 1993. Pp. 65-87. 

Tra gli annali di G. A. Scinzenzeler, stampatore a Milano, Luigi Balsamo da 
notizia di una edizione dell’/nnamorato del Boiardo del 1539, ristampata a Milano 
da Giovanni Antonio da Castiglione, probabile collaboratore di Scinzenzeler ed 
erede della bottega e del materiale tipografico. 

123. Benvenuti, Antonia Tissoni. J! mito di Ercole. Aspetti 
della ricezione dell’antico alla Corte Estense nel _ primo 
Quatrocento. In Omaggio a Gianfranco Folena. Padova: 
Editoriale Programma, 1993. Vol. I, pp. 773-792. 

La studiosa si occupa del mito di Ercole analizzando |’ opera di Piero Andrea de’ 
Bassi, Le fatiche de Hercule. Nel poema epico boiardesco compaiono a volte 
fatiche di Ercole travestite. 

124. Cavallo, Jo Ann. Boiardo’s “Orlando innamorato”: An 
Ethics of Desire. Rutheford: Farleigh Dickinson UP, 1993. Pp. 
XI-206. 

Benché Boiardo affermi il suo scopo di divertire e piacere nella stesura del poema, 
in realta un attento esame dei modelli narrativi mostra, nel testo, una ben definita 
visione morale. 

125. Di Tommaso, Andrea (a c. di). “Amorum Libri’. The Lyric 
Poems of Matteo Maria Boiardo. Trans. with Introduction and 
Notes by Andrea Di Tommaso. Binghamton: Medieval & 
Renaissance Texts & Studies; Dovehouse Editions Inc., 1993. 
Pp. X-299. 

Uulissima opera per far conoscere gli Amorum Libri di Boiardo agli studiosi ed 
ai lettori di lingua inglese ad americana. Il volume é@ corredato di un’ampia 
introduzione e di una buona bibliografia. 

126. Foa. Simona. I Tarocchi di Matteo Maria Boiardo Dalla 
Corte Estense alla tipografia veneziana. In Passare il tempo. La 
letteratura del gioco e dell’intrattenimento dal XII al XVI secolo. 
Atti del convegno di Pienza, 10-14 settembre 1991. Roma: 
Salerno, 1993, vol. 2, pp. 609-617. 

La Foa sostiene che l’ispirazione ad accompagnare con versi un mazzo di carte 
venne a Boiardo proprio dalla corte. Ma sarebbe, tuttavia, riduttivo stabilire un 
rapporto di causa-effetto fra l’ambiente all’interno del quale i Tarocchi vennero 
pensati, e a cui erano destinati, e il testo. Nel momento in cui la stampa se ne 
appropria, per opera di Niccolo Zoppino, il testo dei Tarocchi viene 
decontestualizzato per essere meglio collocato all’interno di una precisa 
operazione editoriale. Nel corso del XVI secolo era possibile attribuire all’intero 
mazzo di carte da giuoco il significato di un mondo all’interno del quale 
trovavano posto tutte le qualita ed i difetti umani, un’enciclopedia 
allegorizzabile. 

127. Franceschetti, Antonio. Dall’“Innamorato” al “Furioso”: 
letteratura cavalleresca e intrattenimento alla Corte di Ferrara. In 


296 Mauda Bregoli-Russo 


Passare il tempo. La letteratura del gioco e dell’intrattenimento 
dal XII al XVI secolo. Atti del convegno di Pienza, 10-14 
settembre 1991. Roma: Salerno, 1993. Vol. 2, pp. 189-218. 

Lo studioso prende in esame le caratteristiche fondamentali che giochi, 
passatempi, intrattenimenti hanno nei poemi del Boiardo, del Cieco da Ferrara e 
dell’ Ariosto, tre opere destinate prima di tutto al pubblico della corte estense. 
Franceschetti si sofferma sulla musica osservando che non é realistico pensare 
che il Boiardo, il Cieco e l’Ariosto non si rendessero conto della musicalita 
insita nell’ottava, pur sapendo di rivolgersi a un pubblico di lettori piuttosto che 
di ascoltatori. Se non ci sono dubbi sull’interesse e sull’amore del Boiardo anche 
per questo aspetto del suo poema come forma di intrattenimento, non ci sono 
riserve sull’importanza e sul rilievo attribuiti alla musica dal Cieco che, proprio 
per la sua menomazione fisica, si sofferma molto poco sui colori nel 
Mambriano. L’Ariosto, invece, come per tanti altri aspetti dell’esistenza, é 
incline a presentare due punti di vista opposti: quello che va bene in certi 
momenti non va piu bene in altri. 

128. Harris Neil. Devant nous le déluge! Per una _ bibliografia 
boiardesca degli anni 790. “Il Boiardo  notiziario di 
informazione e di bibliografia boiardesca.” Il centro stampa del 
comune di Scandiano. A c. di Giuseppe Anceschi. 1 (giugno 
1993): 9-11; 2 (novembre 1993): 20. 

Bibliografia boiardesca non ragionata degli anni ’90. 

129. Potter, Jeremy M. Nicolé Zoppino and the Book Trade 
Network of Perugia. In The Italian Book 1465-1800. Studies 
presented to Dennis E. Rhodes on His 70th Birthday. Ed. Dennis 
V. Reidy. London: The British Library, 1993. Pp. 152-53. 

Potter segnala un’edizione del 1537 dell’Apuleio volgare tradotto da Matteo 
Maria Boiardo, stampato dallo Zoppino ma rivisto e corretto da Marchiore 
Pedastreo da Perosa, un contatto perugino. 

130. Zampese, Cristina. L’“Orlando innamorato” e  Stazio. 
“Giornale storico della letteratura italiana” 170, fase. 551 
(1993): 394-427. 

La Zampese, analizzando |’/nnamorato, rivela che la poesia del poema boiardesco 
nasce sul terreno di una tradizione letteraria anche classica, che é possibile 
riportare alla luce scavando intorno ad alcune spie tematiche e lessicali, lasciate 
ben visibili dal poeta, spesso per suggerire al lettore intendente 
un’interpretazione non superficiale di alcuni episodi, avvallata dal referente culto. 
Fra gli autori utilizzati nella composizione del poema un posto di rilievo spetta a 
Stazio della Tebaide e dell’incompiuta Achilleide. Ma per Boiardo, |’imitazione 
da Stazio non é se non elemento catalizzatore di una serie di variazioni che 
attingono comunque a qualche canale secondario di trasmissione dei materiali 
mitologici. Uno di essi é l’apparato delle glosse che corredavano i classici latini 
e l’altro é rappresentato dalle rielaborazioni romanze. 


Rassegna della critica boiardesca: 1983-1994 297 


1994 

131. Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. Studi di critica boiardesca. Napoli: 
Federico & Ardia, 1994. 

Sono raccolti in questo libro con aggiornamento bibliografico otto saggi di 
critica boiardesca pubblicato dal 1980 al 1988. La Prefazione e |’ Introduzione, 
che precedono i saggi, rappresentano la rilettura attuale di un discorso critico che 
Si propone di sollevare questioni e problemi agli studiosi ed ai lettori di Boiardo. 

132. Scarsella, Alessandro. Su una lettera del Boiardo. “Lettere 
italiane” 1 (gennaio-marzo 1994): 106-108. 

Restituendo la missiva n. 35 (edizione del Mengaldo del 1962) a una lezione pit 
corretta, lo Scarsella vede la necessita di una riedizione integrale delle lettere del 
Boiardo allo scopo di valorizzare il reperto linguistico di una koiné ancora molto 
malnota. La missiva n. 35 é indirizzata dal Boiardo al Comune di Scandiano il 
25 agosto 1471. 


The University of Illinois at Chicago 





Robert J. Rodini 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 
1986-1993 


Introduction 

This bibliography of criticism is a continuation of a “Selected Bibliography of 
Ariosto Criticism, 1980-87,” which appeared in a special issue of MLN devoted 
to studies on the Orlando furioso (Volume 103 [1988]: 187-203). Like the earlier 
bibliography, it attempts to cover critical studies on all of Ariosto’s writings, 
although, not surprisingly, relatively limited critical attention has been given in 
the past several years to works other than the Furioso, the rime in particular. 

One might have expected a waning of interest in Ariosto after the very 
active critical attention paid him during the period of the six-hundredth 
anniversary of his birth (1974) — critical attention which is extensively 
documented in Robert J. Rodini and Salvatore Di Maria, Ludovico Ariosto: An 
Annotated Bibliography of Criticism, 1956-1980 (Columbia: U of Missouri P, 
1984). But, as Jo Ann Cavallo has noted, since 1986, each year in the United 
States alone has produced a monographic study on Ariosto (Cavallo 129), 
attesting to the writer’s significance in the minds of literary historians for the 
evolution of narrative forms. Attesting to the poet’s continuing high visibility, 
Cavallo’s rassegna considers the major monographic studies in English during 
the period 1986-1991, and other bibliographic essays in recent years, including 
those by Marina Beer, Alberto Casadei, Carlo Cordié, Antonio Franceschetti, and 
Dennis Looney. And the recently published exhibition volume, Ludovico 
Ariosto: documenti, immagini, fortuna critica, edited by Gino Badini (Ferrara, 
1992) and with a useful bibliography on Ariostea (which is, however, 
dismayingly dependent on earlier published bibliographies, including their 
annotations), keeps alive Ariosto’s fortunes through a useful listing of pertinent 
archival materials and other documents. 

Cavallo has handily categorized the major studies in English of the past 
several years and has noted the areas of critical concern which are of major 
interest to writers in North America, especially: Ariosto and allegory; 
intertextuality; studies on the Furioso’s characters; and Ariosto in a socio- 
historical context. At the same time she notes the relatively slight attention paid 
by these studies to the earlier romance tradition in Italy, an area of investigation 
which, as can be seen in the bibliography that follows, is still of vital interest in 
Italy with the work of Marina Beer and Maria Cabani, for example. However, it 
is interesting to note the relatively few major monographic studies on Ariosto 
by Italian scholars in recent years, at least when compared to North American 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994). The Italian Epic and Its International Context. 


300 Robert J. Rodini 


publications. And in perusing the bibliography which follows and then 
correlating it with many important scholarly contributions, one notes, also, that 
many important essays by French and German critics have not been given 
adequate attention, or, indeed, any attention at all. 

Given the attention that Ariosto has received since the early ’70s in 
particular, it is surprising that there has still not appeared, to my knowledge, a 
concordance of his writings, although a few helpful indexes and research tools 
have been published, including Maureen Buja’s first-line index of poetry and 
David Robey’s computer analysis of rhymes. And it is noteworthy that extended 
consideration of individual characters in the Furioso has begun to appear in the 
wake of Peter DeSa Wiggins’ monograph, Figures in Ariosto’s Tapestry: 
Character and Design in the Orlando furioso (1986), most notably Michael 
Sherberg’s study on the evolution of Rinaldo. Not surprisingly, in the United 
States, especially, there has been considerable attention paid the Furioso in the 
context of both feminist and gender studies, including a recent monograph by 
Valeria Finucci, articles by Pamela Benson, Maggie Gunzberg (England), and 
Juliana Schiesari. Both Katherine Hoffman and Deanna Shemek, in a manuscript 
currently in preparation, have concerned themselves with Ariosto and the whole 
question of patronage, a subject of considerable interest recently and reflected in 
the volume edited by Marianne Pade, La corte di Ferrara e il suo mecenatismo, 
1441-1598 (1990). 

The use of the word “selected” in describing this bibliography is part of a 
strategy to make it amply clear that it, like all bibliographies, cannot pretend to 
completeness, most especially for items not included in standard international 
bibliographies. The span of time —1986-1993 — indicates that I have included 
items that should have appeared in the installment published in MLN but which 
were omitted; and one must assume that a number of items published in 1993 
and which have not found their way into standard bibliographies have eluded my 
notice. 


Bibliography 

Alexandre-Gras, Denise. “Le Jardin enchanté dans le roman chevalresque italien.” 
Le Paysage a la Renaissance. Ed. Yves Giraud. Fribourg: Eds. 
Universitaires, 1988. 147-56. 

Ambrosini, Luigi. Ariosto e Machiavelli. Ed. Epifanio Ajello. Roma: Archivio 
Guido Izzi, 1991. 

Andreev, Mihail. “Princip ansamblja v poetike ‘Neistovogo Orlando’. K 
probleme universal’nogo stilja v literature i iskusstve Vysokogo 
Vozrozdenija” [The principle of harmony in the poetics of the Orlando 
Furioso]. Rafael’ i ego vremja. [Raphael and his times]. Moscow: 1986. 
211-17. 

Ansani, Antonella. “Imago Magi: Magic and Rhetoric in the Italian 
Renaissance.” DAI 52/02 (1991): 557A. Yale University. 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 301 


Ascoli, Albert Russell. “L’educazione come ‘insegnamento’ e *formazione.’” 
Schifanoia 9 (1990): 231-42. 

Asor Rosa, Alberto. Ludovico Ariosto. Ed. Marina Beer. Firenze: La Nuova 
Italia, 1987. 

Aulotte, Robert. “La ‘Bradamante’ de Robert Garnier ou d’un usage moral de 
l’ Orlando furioso.” Das Epos in der Romania. Festschrift fiir Dieter Kremers 
zum 65. Geburtstag. Ed. Susanne Knaller and Edith Mara. Tiibingen: Narr, 
1986. 9-12. 

Aurnhammer, Achim. “Ein Hausspruch als poetische Devise: Zum Nachleben 
von Ariosts Hausinschrift bei Gryphius, Goethe, Nietzsche und George.” 
Germanisch-Romanische Monatsschrift 39 (1989): 90-99. 

Avalle Arce, Juan Bautista. “‘La insula Barataria: la forma de su relato.” Anales 
de Literatura Espanola 6 (1988): 33-44. 

Badini, Caterina. ““La ‘doppia morale’ del Paladino-Re.” Schifanoia 4 (1987): 43- 
525 

Badini, Gino, ed. Ludovico Ariosto: documenti, immagini, fortuna critica. 
Roma: Presidenza del Consiglio dei ministri, Dipartimento per 
l’informazione e |’editoria, 1992[?]. 

Baehr, Rudolf. ““Ariosts Alcina und Olimpia: zu Charaketer und ‘Fortune’ eines 
literarischen Stereotyps.” Das Epos in der Romania: Festschrift fiir Dieter 
Kremers zum 65. Geburtstag. Ed. Susanne Knaller and Edith Mara. 
Tiibingen: Narr, 1986. 13-28 

Baillet, Roger. ““La Correspondance de I’ Ariosto: de I’h’éroisme chevaleresque a 
la praxis machiavellienne.” La Correspondance: I, Edition, fonctions, 
signification; II, L’ Edition des correspondances, correspondance et politique, 
correspondance et création littéraire, correspondance et vie littéraire. Aix-en- 
Provence: Univ. de Provence, 1984-85. 129-42. 

Baldi, Andrea. “Orlando e Ruggiero: appunti per un’analisi dei canti VII-XI del 
Furioso.” Carte italiane: A Journal of Italian Studies 10 (1988-89): 25-40. 

Balducci, Marino Alberto. “Il destino di Olimpia e il motivo della ‘donna 
abbandonata.’” Jtalica 70 (1993): 303-28. 

Barberi-Squarotti, Giovanni, ed. Prospettive sul Furioso. Torino: Tirrenia 
Stampatori, 1988. 

Barbirato, Giorgio. “Elementi decameroniani in alcune novelle ariostesche.” 
Studi sul Boccaccio 16 (1987): 329-60. 

. Il mondo novellistico dell’ "Orlando Furioso". Tesi di Laurea. Venezia, 
1986. 

Barilla, Anthony. “The Impact of the Orlando Furioso on Selected Episodes in 
the Quijote.” DAI 43/06 (1988): 1988. University of Maryland. 

Barucco, Pierre. “Le Roland furieux comme palinodie ou |’ Arioste, penseur 
tragique.” Revue Romane 23 (1988): 211-40. 

Bastiaensen, Michel. “Les Premiéres traductions néerlandaises du Roland 
Furieux.” Revue de litterature comparée 61 (1987): 133-44. 


302 Robert J. Rodini 


. “Pompeo Caimo e la controversia tassiana.” GSLI 107 (1990): 71-81. 

Beer, Marina. “L’epica cavalleresca italiana.” Schifanoia 3 (1987): 195-99. 

. “Il romanzo cavalleresco del primo Cinquecento tra serialita e 
riscrittura.” Scritture di scritture. Testi, generi, modelli nel Rinascimento. 
Ed. Giancarlo Mazzacurati and Michel Plaisance. Roma, 1987. 337-87. 

. “Studi ariosteschi nel mondo.” Schifanoia 9 (1990): 227-29. 

Bellamy, Elizabeth J. Translations of Power: Narcissism and the Unconscious in 
Epic History. Ithaca: Comell U P, 1992. 

Benson, Pamela Joseph. “The Debate about Woman in the Orlando furioso.” 
“Praise and Limitation of the Independent Woman in the Orlando furioso.” 
Pamela J. Benson. The Invention of the Renaissance Woman: The 
Challenge of Female Independence in the Literature and Thought of Italy and 
England. University Park, PA: The Pennsylvania State UP, 1992. 91-122; 
123-55. 

Bergmann, Emilie. “The Painting’s Observer in the Epic Canvas: La hermosura 
de Angélica.” Comparative Literature 38 (1986): 270-88. 

Bianchi, Stefano, ed. Ludovico Ariosto, Rime. Milano: Rizzoli, 1992. 

Bigi, Emilio and Ettore Bonora. “Dittico per Bacchelli critico, I: Bacchelli tra 
Ariosto e Leopardi; II: Bacchelli: manzonista.” GSLI 105 (1988): 18-44. 
Biow, Douglas. “Narrative Self-Consciousness of the Marvelous in Virgil, 
Dante, Ariosto, and Tasso.” DAI 51/05 (1990): 1629A. Johns Hopkins 

University. 

Borsellino, Nino. Ludovico Ariosto. Second edition. Roma: Laterza, 1989. 

Bozzetti, Cesare. “Notizie sulle Rime dell’ Ariosto.” Studi di filologia e critica 
offerti dagli allievi di Lanfranco Caretti. 2 vols. Roma: Salerno editrice, 
1985. I: 83-118. 

Brand, C. P. “From the Second to the Third Edition of the Orlando furioso: The 
Marganorre Canto.” Book Production and Letters in the Western European 
Renaissance. Ed. Anna Laura Lepschy, John Took, and Dennis E. Rhodes. 
London: Modern Humanities Research Association, 1986. 32-46. 

Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. “Boiardo, Ariosto e i commentatori del Cinquecento.” 
Annali dell’ Istituto Universitario Orientale. Sezione romanza 29 (1987): 77- 
86. 

. “Boiardo, Ariosto e le Jmprese.” Medieval Perspectives 1 (1986): 188- 
200. 

Bryce, Judith. “Gender and Myth in the Orlando furioso.” Italian Studies 
(Edinburgh) 47 (1992): 41-50. 

Buja, Maureen E., ed. /talian Renaissance Poetry. A First-Line Index to Petrarch, 
Ariosto, Tasso. New York: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1987. 

Burrow, Colin. Epic Romance: Homer to Milton. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 
1994, 

Butler, George Frank. “The Spiritual Odyssey and the Renaissance Epic.” DAI 
49/08 (1988): 2209A. University of Connecticut. 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 303 


Cabani, Maria Cristina. Costanti ariostesche: tecniche di ripresa e memoria 
interna nell’ Orlando furioso. Pisa: Scuola Normale, 1990. 

Cabani, Maria. Fra omaggio e parodia: Petrarca e petrarchismo nel Furioso. 
Pisa: Nistri-Lischi, 1990. 

Calvino, Italo. Italo Calvino racconta I’ Orlando furioso.” Ed. Carlo Minoia. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1988. 

. “The Structure of Orlando furioso.” The Uses of Literature. New York: 
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1986. 162-74. 

Carozza, Davy. “Thematic Transformation in Ariosto, Tasso, Spenser, Cam6es 
and Milton.” Jtaliana 1987. Ed. Albert N. Mancini and Paolo A. Giordano. 
River Forest: Rosary College, 1989. 158-68. 

Carroll, Clare Lois. “The Orlando furioso and the Stoic Tradition.” DAI 49/03 
(1988): 499A. Columbia University. 

Casadei, Alberto. ““Alcune considerazioni sui Cinque canti.” GSLI 105 (1988): 
161-79. 

. “Breve analisi sul finale del primo Furioso.” Studi e problemi di critica 
testuale 44 (1992): 87-100. 

. “La morte del Danese di Cassio da Narni: questioni testuali e critiche.” 

Schifanoia 4 (1987): 31-41. [Concerns relationship with OF and other 

epics]. 

. “Una nota autografa ariostesca e un manoscritto del carme ‘Ibis ad 

umbrosas.’” GSLI 169 (1991): 573-76. 

. “Notizie intorno alla prima edizione dei Cinque canti.” Schifanoia 6 
(1988): 205-06. 

“Panorama di studi ariosteschi.” /talianistica 20 (1991): 131-38. 
. La strategia delle varianti: le correzioni del terzo Furioso. Lucca: Maria 
Pacini Fazzi Editore, 1988. 

Cauchi, Simon. “Harington’s Orlando furioso: A ‘Spare Leafe’ and a Stop-Press 
Correction.” Studies in Bibliography: Papers of the Bibliographical Society 
of the University of Virginia 45 (1992): 68-70. 

Cavallo, Jo Ann. “L’ Orlando furioso nella critica anglo-americana (1986-1991).” 
Lettere italiane 45 (1993): 129-49. 

Ceserani, Remo. “L’impresa delle api e dei serpenti.” MLN 103 (1988): 172-86. 

Chaney, Edward. “The Visit to Vallombrosa: A Literary Tradition.” Milton in 
Italy: Contexts, Images, Contradictions. Ed. Mario A. Di Cesare. 
Binghamton: Binghamton Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies, 
1991. 113-46. 

Charney, Sara Beth. “Ariosto and the Visual Arts: An Iconographical Study of 
Avarice.” DAI 50/01 (1989): 156A. University of Toronto. 

Checa, Jorge. “Gracian lector de Ariosto: Huellas del Orlando furioso en el 
Criticon.” Hispania 71 (1988): 743-51. 

Clerici, Fabrizio. Fabrizio Clerici: i disegni per I’ Orlando furioso. Roma: Casa 
Editrice Quasar, 1990. [Catalogue of exhibition held at the Accademia 











304 Robert J. Rodini 


Nazionale di San Luca] 

Clubb, Louise George. Italian Drama in Shakespeare’ s Time. New Haven: Yale 
UP, 1989. 

Coccia, Paola. “Le illustrazioni dell’Orlando furioso (Valgrisi 1556) gia 
attribuita a Dosso Dossi.” La Bibliofilia 93 (1991): 279-309. 

Cook, Patrick John. “From Ariosto to Milton: Generic Composition in 
Renaissance Epic.” DAI 52/04 (1991): 1317A-18A. University of 
California, Berkeley. 

Cordié, Carlo. “Le bibliografie ariostee Fatini (1510-1956) e Rodini-Di Maria 
(1956-1980): osservazioni e aggiunte.” Paideia 43 (1988): 46-49. 

Craig, Cynthia C. “Enchantment and Disenchantment: A Study of Magic in the 
Orlando furioso and the Gerusalemme liberata.” Comiatus: A Journal of 
Medieval and Renaissance Studies 19 (1988): 20-45. 

D’ Alfonso, Rossella. “Ricezione dantesca nell’Orlando furioso (XXXIII, 127, 
XXXV 21,4).” Schifanoia 4 (1987): 53-71. 

D’ Amico, Jack. “Planes of Action and Fluid Space. I Suppositi and the Taming 
of the Shrew.” Forum Italicum 24 (1990): 230-46. 

. “Poetic and Theatrical Perspectives in Ariosto’s J] Negromante and 
Jonson’s The Alchemist.” Italica 66 (1989): 312-22. 

Davidson, Sylvie. “Borges and Italian Literature.” [talian Quarterly 27 (1986): 
43-49. [Sources in Dante, Ariosto, Marino] 

Dempsey, Joanne T. “Form and Transformation in Ariosto, Tasso, and Spenser.” 
Canadian Review of Comparative Literature 18 (1991): 323-26. 

De Panizza Lorch, Maristella. ““Orlando’s Saviezza in Orlando furioso.” Teaching 
Language Through Literature 25 (1986): 4-18. 

Di luglio, Jeffrey. “Renaissance Ferrara: Lodovico Ariosto’s Orlando furioso and 
the Epic Tradition in Italy.” /talian Journal 7 (1993): 57-65. 

Donato, Clorinda. “The Rhetorical Tapestry: A Model for Perspective Reality in 
Orlando furioso and Don Quijote.” Comiatus 17 (1986): 12-21. 

Donato, Eugenio. “‘Per selve e boscherecci labirinti’: Desire and Narrative 
Structure in Ariosto’s Orlando furioso.” Literary Theory/Renaissance Text. 
Ed. Patricia Parker and David Quint. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1986. 
33-63. 

Doroszlai, Alexandre. “Les Sources cartographiques et le Roland furieux: 
quelques hypothéses autour de I’ ‘éspace réel’ chez I’ Arioste.” Espaces réels et 
espaces imaginaires dans le “Roland furieux.” Ed. Alexandre Doroszlai et al. 
Paris: Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1991. 11-46. 

D’Uva, Michele. “Barthelme’s Snow White, Calvino’s The Castle of Crossed 
Destinies and Contemporary Discourse on the Fairy Tale: Feminist and 
Foucaultian Approaches.” DAI 53/06 (1992): 1901. SUNY, Binghamton. 

Eboigbe, Delphia Elizabeth. “The Depiction of the Negro African in Three Old 
French Chansons de Geste and Two Renaissance Epico-Chivalric Poems.” 
DAT 47/12 (1987): 4404A. Indiana University. 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 305 


Ericksen, Roy. “God Enthroned: Expansion and Continuity in Ariosto, Tasso, 
and Milton.” Milton in Italy: Contexts, Images, Contradictions. Ed. Mario 
A. Di Cesare. Binghamton: Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies, 
1991. 405-25. 

Esolen, Anthony Michael. “A Rhetoric of Spenserian Irony.” DAI 49/08 (1989): 
2227A. University of North Carolina. 

Everson, Jane E. “Syntax and Style in J! Mambriano of Francesco Cieco da 
Ferrara.” The Languages of Literature in Renaissance Italy. Ed. Peter 
Hainsworth, Valerio Lucchesi, Christina Roaf, David Robey, and J.R. 
Woodhouse. Oxford: Clarendon, 1988. 191-210. 

Fachard, Denis. “L’immagine dell’eroe: reminiscenze omeriche nell’/nnamorato 
e nel Furioso.” Etudes de lettres 1 (1989): 5-40. 

Fahy, Conor. “More on the 1532 Edition of Ariosto’s Orlando furioso.” Studies 
in Bibliography: Papers of the Bibliographical Society of the University of 
Virginia 41 (1988): 225-32. 

. L’ Orlando furioso del 1532: profilo di una edizione. Milano: Vita e 
pensiero, 1989. 

. Saggi di bibliografia testuale. Padova: Antenore, 1988. 

. “Some Observations on the 1532 Edition of Ludovico Ariosto’s 
Orlando furioso.” Studies in Bibliography 40 (1987): 72-85. 

Faverzani, Camillo. “De 1’ Arioste 4 Haendel, mais aussi de Boiardo et du Tasse.” 
Avant-Scéne Opéra 130 (1990): 10-17. 

Feinstein, Wiley. “Ariosto’s Parodic Rewriting of Vergil in the Episode of 
Cloridano and Medoro.” South Atlantic Review 55 (1990): 17-34. 

. “Bradamante in Love: Some Post-Feminist Considerations on Ariosto.” 
Forum Italicum 22 (1988): 48-59. 

. “Dorinda as Ariostean Narrator in Handel’s Orlando.” Italica 64 (1987): 
561-71. 

. “The Strategic Rhetoric of Ariosto’s Invective Against Firearms.” 
Italian Culture 8 (1990): 63-73. 

Felten, Hans. “Das Experiment mit der Constantia.” Germanisch-romanische 
Monatsschrift 29 (1979): 159-69. [On Cervantes, Ariosto, Marivaux and Da 
Ponte] 

Ferroni, Giulio. “Lecteur ou lectrice: l’Arioste et les images du public.” 
L’écrivain face a son public en France et en Italie a la Renaissance. Actes du 
Colloque de Tours. Paris: Vrin, 1989. 321-35. 

. “Lo sguardo della corte nel dialogo comico.” La Féte et I’ ecriture: 
théatre de cour, cour-théatre en Espagne et en Italie 1450-1530. Aix-en- 
Provence: Université de Provence, 1987. 119-32. 

Finucci, Valeria. The Lady Vanishes: Subjectivity and Representation in 
Castiglione and Ariosto. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1992. 

Fiorato, Adelin Charles. “La ‘gallica face’ nell’Orlando furioso.” La corte di 
Ferrara e il suo mecenatismo (1441-1598). Ed. Marianne Pade, Lene Waage 


306 Robert J. Rodini 


Petersen, and Daniela Quarta. Modena: Panini, 1990. 159-76. 

Floriani, Piero. “Guerre et chevaliers ‘avec reproche’ dans le Roland furieux.” 
L’homme de guerre au XVIle siécle. Ed. Gabriel-André Perouse, André 
Thierry, and André Tournon. Saint-Etienne: Université de Saint-Etienne, 
1992. 289-99. 

. Il modello ariostesco: la satira classicistica nel Cinquecento. Roma: 
Bulzoni, 1988. 

Fortichiari, Antonio. /nvito alla lettura di Ludovico Ariosto. Milano: Mursia, 
1987. 

Fragnito, Gigliola. “Intorno alla ‘religione’ dell’ Ariosto: i dubbi del Bembo e le 
credenze ereticali del fratello Galasso.” Lettere italiane 44 (1992): 209-39. 

Franceschetti, Antonio. “Il Boiardo e l’avvio del Furioso.” Miscellanea di studi 
in onore di Marco Pecoraro. I. Da Dante al Manzoni. Ed. Bianca Maria da 
Rifa and Claudio Griggio. Firenze: Olschki, 1991. 111-30. 

. “Contemporary American Re-Readings of the Furioso.” Interpreting the 
Italian Renaissance: Literary Perspectives. Ed. Antonio Toscano. Stony 
Brook, NY: Forum Italicum, 1991. 151-61. 

. “Eroi, soldati e popoli nel mondo dell’/nnamorato e del Furioso.” 
Humanitas e poesia. Studi in onore di Gioacchino Paparelli. Ed. Luigi 
Reina. Salerno: Pietro Laveglia Editore, 1991. 117-42. 

Galletti, Anna I. and Roberto Roda. Sur les traces de Roland: légendes et lieux 
Carolingens en Italie. Padova/Carcassonne: Edizioni Interbooks, 1989. 

Galli, Clementina. E come quando: le similitudini in Omero, Virgilio, Dante, 
Ariosto, Tasso, Manzoni, D’ Annunzio. Castel Maggiore, 1989. 

Gargiulo, Giuseppe. “L’Orlando furioso nel ‘duello’ di Casanova contro 
Voltaire.” Humanitas e poesia. Studi in onore di Gioacchino Paparelli. Ed. 
Luigi Reina. Salerno: Pietro Laveglia Editore, 1991. 799-826. 

Garstin, Marguerite. “Teaching Literature and the Visual Arts: Experiences and 
Proposals.” Proceedings of the XIIth Congress of the International 
Comparative Literature Association. Ed. Roger Bauer et al. 5 volumes. 
Munich: Iudicium, 1990. Vol. 5: “Space and Boundaries in Literary Theory 
and Criticism.” 181-88. 

Gilman, Stephen. The Novel According to Cervantes. Berkeley: U of California 
P, 1989. 

Giordano Gramegna, Anna Lucia. “La Influencia del primer teatro renascentista 
italiano en las comedias de Bartolomé de Torres Naharro.” DAI 50/02 
(1989): 171A. University of Valencia, Spain. 

Glinga, Werner. “Satire des Epos. Vorarbeiten zu einem Aufsatz tiber ‘La 
Chanson de Roland,’ Ludovico Ariosto: ‘Orlando furioso’ und Italo Calvino 
‘Il cavalier inesistente.” Die in dem alten Haus der Sprache wohnen. Betrége 
zum sprachdenken in der Literaturgeschichte. Ed. Eckehard Czucka. Munster: 
Aschendorff, 1991. 73-78. 

Gloss, Teresa Guerra. “Humour in Literature: Three Levels” [England, Spain, 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 307 


Italy, Chaucer, Dickens, Cervantes, Boccaccio, Ariosto, Bellow] DAI 50/90 
(1989): 3221A. University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana. 

Goss, Noble Thomas. “The Theme of Chastity in Ariosto and Spenser". DAT 
48/03 (1987): 644A. University of Oregon. 

Gould, Cecil. “The Chronology of Raphael’s Stanze: a Revision.” Gazette des 
Beaux-Arts 118 (1991): 171-82. 

Gnerre, Francesco. “‘‘Le donne, i cavallier, l’arme, gli amori... .’” Narrare: 
percorsi possibili. Ed. Margherita Di Fazio. Ravenna: Longo, 1989: 215- 
23: 

, ed. “Orlando furioso: una proposta di descrizione.” // testo ritrovato: 
forme poetiche e classici a scuola. Ravenna: Longo, 1987. 73-100. 

Gnerro, Mark L. “Cinquecento Theory and the ‘Obscure’ Muses of Ariosto and 
Tasso.” Romanic Review 78 (1987): 525-32. 

Guidi, José. “Imagination, maitresse de vérité: l’épisode lunaire du Roland 
furieux.” Espaces réels et espaces imaginaires dans le “Roland Furieux.” Ed. 
Alexandre Doroszlai et al. Paris: Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1991. 
47-85. 

. “Le Statut ambigu de l’écrivain de cour.” Ecrire a la fin du Moyen-Age: 
pouvoir et l’écriture en Espagne et en Italie (1450-1530). Ed. Jeanne 
Battesti-Pelegrin and Georges Ulysse. Aix-en-Provence: Université de 
Provence, 1990. 79-91. 

Gunzberg, Maggie. ““Donna liberata’? The Portrayal of Women in the Italian 
Renaissance Epic.” /talianist 7 (1987): 7-35; also in Women & Italy: 
Essays on Gender, Culture and History. Ed. Z. G. Baranski and S. W. 
Vinal. London: Macmillan, 1991. 173-208. 

Gusmano, Arianna. “Tipologie del duello nell’Orlando furioso.”Schifanoia 3 
(1987): 85-102. 

Haar, James. “‘Rore’s Settings of Ariosto.” Essays in Musicology: A Tribute to 
Alvin Johnson. Ed. Lewis Lockwood and Edward Roesner. Philadelphia: 
American Musicological Society, 1990. 

Harrison, Robert Pogue. Forests: The Shadow of Civilization. Chicago: U 
Chicago P, 1992. 93-100. 

Hart, Thomas R. Cervantes and Ariosto: Renewing Fiction. Princeton U P, 
1989. 

Haywood, Eric. “Would you Believe It? A Tall Story from Ariosto (Orlando 
furioso 28).” Italian Storytellers. Essays on Italian Narrative Literature. Ed. 
Eric Haywood and Cormac O Cuilleandin. Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 
1989. 111-49. 

Hempfer, Klaus W. Diskrepante Lektiiren: Die Orlando-Furioso-Rezeption im 
Cinquecento: Historische Rezeptionforschung als Heuristik der 
Interpretation. Stuttgart: Steiner, 1987. 

. “Intertextualitaét, Systemreferenz und Strukturwandel: Die Pluralisierung 
des erotischen Diskurses in der italienischen und franz6sischen Renaissance- 


308 Robert J. Rodini 


Lyrik (Ariost, Bembo, Du Bellay, Ronsard).” Modelle des literarischen 
Strukturwandels. Ed. Michael Titzmann and Georg Jager. Tiibingen: 
Niemeyer, 1991. 7-43. 

. “Die Pluralisierung des erotischen Diskurses in der europaischen Lyrik 
des 16. und 17. Jahrhunderts.”Germanisch-Romanische Monatsschrift 38 
(1988): 251-64. 

. “Il postulato di un significato ‘pit profondo’: procedimenti e funzioni 
dell’esegesi allegorica.” Schifanoia 9(1990): 243-62. 

, ed. Ritterepik der Renaissance: Akten des Deutsch-Italienischen 
Kollogiums. Berlin, 1987. Stuttgart: F. Steiner, 1989. 

Hodgens, Richard M. “Lewis and Symonds on Boiardo, Ariosto, and Tasso.” 
Bulletin of the New York C. S. Lewis Society 19 (1988): 1-5. 

Hoffman, Katherine. “The Court in the Work of Art: Patronage and Poetic 
Autonomy in the Orlando furioso, Canto 42.” Quaderni d’italianistica 13 
(1992): 113-24. 

. “Reading History in the Orlando furioso and the Faerie Queene.” DAI 
52/05 (1991): 1751-52A. Northwestern University. 

Hood, Gwenyth E. “Medieval Love-Madness and Divine Love.” Mythlore: A 
Journal of J. R. R. Tolkien, C. S. Lewis, Charles Williams 16 (1990): 20- 
28. 

Hulse, Clark. “Toward a New Theory of the Arts.” The Rule of Art. Chicago: U 
Chicago P, 1990. 1-25. 

Javitch, Daniel. “La legittimazione dell’Orlando furioso.” Schifanoia 4 (1987): 
9-24. 

. “Narrative Discontinuity in the Orlando furioso and its Sixteenth- 
Century Critics.” MLN 103 (1988): 50-74. 

. Proclaiming a Classic: The Canonization of Orlando furioso. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1991. 

. “Shifting Generic Boundaries in Late Renaissance Poetic Theory.” 
Proceedings of the XIIth Congress of the International Comparative 
Literature Association. 5 vols. Ed. Roger Bauer et al. Munich: Judicium, 
1990. Vol. 2-4: “Space and Boundaries of Literature.” 463-68. 

Jeny, Neda. “Character Types in Sir Philip Sidney’s New Arcadia and in Italian 
Romance Epic.” DAI 47/07 (1987): 2574A. University of Illinois, 
Champaign-Urbana. 

. Notable Images of Virtue and Vice: Character Types in Sir Philip 
Sidney's “New Arcadia” and in Italian Romance Epic. New York: Peter 
Lang, 1989. 

Johnson-Haddad, Miranda. “Gelosia: Ariosto Reads Dante.” Stanford Italian 
Review 11 (1992): 187-201. 

. ‘“Like the Moon it Renews Itself’: The Female Body as Text in Dante, 
Ariosto, and Tasso.” Stanford Italian Review 11 (1992): 203-15. 

__. “Ovid’s Medusa in Dante and Ariosto: The Poetics of Self- 





| 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 309 


Confrontation.” Journal of Medieval and Renaissance Studies 19 (1989): 
211-25. 

. “The Writer as Reader: A Study of Intertextual Influence in the Works 
of Dante, Ariosto and Spenser.” DAI 48/10 (1988): 2622A. Yale 
University. 

Jossa, Stefano. “Stratigrafie ariostesche: modelli classici e lingua poetica 
nell’Orlando furioso.” Rivista di letteratura italiana (Pisa) 9 (1991): 59-106. 

. “Tra forma e norma: Poliziano nella ‘riscrittura’ ariostesca.” Schifanoia 
11 (1991): 81-100. 

Kallendorf, Craig. Jn Praise of Aeneas: Virgil and Epideictic Rhetoric in the 
Early Italian Renaissance. Hanover: UP of New England, 1989. 

Kanduth, Erika. “Ansatze zur Melodramatik in Ariost’s Orlando furioso.” Das 
Epos in der Romania: Festschrift fiir Dieter Kremers zum 65. Geburstag. 
Ed. Susanne Knaller and Edith Mara. Tiibingen: Narr, 1986. 95-112. 

Kapp, Volker. “Ariostos and Tassos Epen in den Opernlibretti von Giulio 
Rospigliosi.” Das Epos in der Romania: Festschrift fiir Dieter Kremers zum 
65. Geburstag. Ed. Susanne Knaller and Edith Mara. Tiibingen: Narr, 1986. 
113-30. 

Knaller, Susanne. “Zur Aktualitét des Orlando furioso: Eine dramatische 
Umsetzung durch Edoardo Sanguineti und Luca Ronconi.” Das Epos in der 
Romania: Festschrift fiir Dieter Kremers zum 65. Geburstag. Ed. Susanne 
Knaller and Edith Mara. Tiibingen: Narr, 1986. 165-76. 

Knapp, Lothar. “Ariosts Orlando furioso: die Kritik der Waffen und der Triumph 
der Liebe.” Das Epos in der Romania: Festschrift fiir Dieter Kremers zum 
65. Geburstag. Ed. Susanne Knaller and Edith Mara. Tiibingen: Narr, 1986. 
177-92. [Relationship to politics, feudalism of Carolingian period.] 

Kolsky, Stephen. “Italo Svevo and Mario Equicola: A Strange Encounter.” MLN 
102 (1987): 128-40. [Ariosto compared to Equicola.] 

. “Male Descriptions, Female Inscriptions (Orlando furioso, XLII, 73- 
96).” Romance Notes 31 (1990): 155-60. 

Kress, Dana Alan. “Ariosto in France from the Revolution to the End of the 
Nineteenth Century.” DAI 54/01 (1993): 197A. Vanderbilt University. 

Krois, Gabriele “Zur Geschichte der deutschen Ubersetzungen von Ariosts 
Orlando furioso.” Italienische Literatur in deutscher Sprache: Bilanz und 
Perspetiven. Ed. Reinhard Klesczewski and Bernhard K6nig. Tiibingen: 
Naar, 1990. 

La Monica, Stefano. “Riflessi della politica estense nel Furioso e negli 
Ecatommiti.” Rassegna della letteratura italiana 96 (1992): 66-83. 

Langer, Ullrich. “Hypothetical Necessity and Fiction in the Early Renaissance.” 
MLN 102 (1987): 55-75. [Pulci, Ariosto and Tasso] 

Lansing, Richard H. “Ariosto’s Orlando furioso and the Homeric Model.” 
Comparative Literature Studies 24 (1987): 311-25. 

La Penna, Antonio. “Un altro apologo oraziano nelle Satire dell’ Ariosto e altre 








310 Robert J. Rodini 


brevi note sulle Satire.” Rivista di letteratura italiana 6 (1988): 259-64. 
Larivaille, Paul. “Les Jeux de l’amour dans Le Roland furieux ou I’ érotisme 
discret de Il’ Arioste.” Au Pays d’ éros: littérature et érotisme en Italie de la 
Renaissance a Il’ age baroque (2e série). Paris: Université de la Sorbonne 
Nouvelle, 1988. 53-144. 

. “Poeta, principe, pubblico dall’Orlando innamorato all’Orlando 
furioso.” La corte di Ferrara e il suo mecenatismo (1441-1598). Ed. 
Marianne Pade, Lene Waage Petersen, and Daniela Quarta. Modena: Panini, 
1990. 9-32. 

La Via, Stefano. “Cipriano de Rore as Reader and as Read: A Literary-Musical 
Study of Madrigals from Rore’s Later Collections (1557-1566).” DAI 52/07 
(1992): 2314A. Princeton University. 

Lee, Judith. “Scornful Beauty: A Note on Blake and Ariosto.” English Language 
Notes 23 (1986): 34-39. 

Lepschy, A. L. “I tempi dell’ Ariosto: tempo verbale e prospettiva narrativa nel 
primo canto dell’Orlando furioso.” The Languages of Literature in 
Renaissance Italy. Ed. Peter Hainsworth, Valerio Lucchesi, Christina Roaf, 
David Robey, and J. R. Woodhouse. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1988. 211- 
24. 

Littlejohn, David. “Ariosto and his Children.” The Ultimate Art: Essays Around 
and About Opera. Berkeley: U of California P, 1992. 107-19. 

Longhi, Silvia. Orlando insonniato. Il sogno e la poesia cavalleresca. Milano: 
Angeli, 1990. 

Looney, Dennis. “Ariosto’s Ferrara: A National Identity Between Fact and 
Fiction.” Yearbook of Comparative and General Literature 39 (1990): 25-34. 

. “Ariosto the Ferrarese Rhapsode: A Compromise in the Critical 

Terminology for Narrative in the Mid-Cinquecento.” /nterpreting the Italian 

Renaissance: Literary Perspectives. Ed. Antonio Toscano. Stony Brook: 

Forum Italicum, 1991. 138-50. 

. “Ovidian Influence on the Narrative of the Orlando furioso.” DAI 48/07 
(1988): 1763A. University of North Carolina. 

. “Recent Trends in Ariosto Criticism: ‘intricati rami e aer fosco.’” 
Modern Philology 88 (1990): 153-65. [Review essay on Marinelli, Ascoli 
and Shapiro] 

Lupton, Julia Reinhard. “Undressing Alcina: The Orlando furioso in Du Bellay’s 
Les Regrets.” French Forum 14 (1989): 291-301. 

MacKinnon, Patricia L. “The Analogy of the Body Politic in St. Augustine, 
Dante, Petrarch, and Ariosto.” DAI 50/02 (1989): 438A. University of 
California, Santa Cruz. 

Malinverni, Massimo. “Paride in giudizio: presenze quattrocentesche in un’ottava 
ariosteca (ed oltre).” Rivista di letteratura italiana (Pisa) 9 (1991): 107-18. 

Mancini, Albert N. / capitoli letterari di Francesco Bolognetti: tempi e modi 
della letteratura epica fra I’ Ariosto e il Tasso. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 











Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 BH 


1989. 

. “Personaggi della poesia cavalleresca: cavallieri e villani nell’Orlando 
furioso.” Civilta della parola. Ed. Italo Bertoni. Milano: Marzorati, 1989. 
171-88. 

Mancini, Mario. “I ‘cavallieri antiqui’: paradigmi dell’aristocratico nel Furioso.” 
Intersezioni 7 (1988): 423-54. 

Marinelli, Peter V. “Shaping the Ore: Image and Design in Canto 1 of Orlando 
furioso.” MLN 103 (1988): 31-49. 

Marcus, Millicent. “Angelica’s Loveknots: The Poetics of Requited Desire in 
Orlando furioso 19 and 23.” Philological Quarterly 72 (1993): 33-48. 

Marti, Mario. Ludovico Ariosto. Galatina: Congedo, 1989. 

Masciandaro, Franco. “Per uno studio sul motivo della fonte e il mito di Narciso 
nell’Orlando furioso.” Italian Renaissance Studies in Arizona. Ed. Jean R. 
Brink and Pier Raimondo Baldini. River Forest: Rosary College, 1989. 43- 
Sil: 

Mazzacurati, Giancarlo. “Varieta e digressione: il laboratorio ariostesco nella 
trasmissione dei ‘generi.’” Scritture di scritture: testi, generi, modelli nel 
Rinascimento.” Ed. Giancarlo Mazzacurati and Michel Plaisance. Roma: 
Bulzoni, 1987. 225-45. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. “Power and Play: Machiavelli and Ariosto.” Western 
Pennsylvania Symposium on World Literatures: Selected Proceedings 1974- 
1991. Greensburg: Eadmer Press, 1992. 151-70. 

McKinney, Ronald H. “The Origins of Postmodernism: the Ariosto-Tasso 
Debate.” Philosophy Today 33 (1989): 232-44. 

McLeod, Randall. “From Tranceformations in the Text of Orlando furioso.” 
Library Chronicle of the University of Texas 20 (1990): 60-85. 

McLucas, John C. “Amazon, Sorceress, and Queen: Women and War in the 
Aristocratic Literature of Sixteenth-Century Italy.” The Italianist: Journal of 
the Department of Italian Studies (University of Reading) 8 (1988): 33-55. 

McNair, P. M. J. “The Madness of Orlando.” Renaissance and Other Studies: 
Essays Presented to Peter M. Brown. Ed. Eileen A. Millar. University of 
Glasgow, 1988. 144-59. 

Meter, Helmut. “Timonedas patrana octava und der achtundwanzigste Gesang des 
Orlando furioso: Ein Aspekt des Imports der Renaissancenovelle in 
Spanien.” Festschrift zum sechzigsten Geburtstag von Bernhard Konig. Ed. 
Andreas Kablitz and Ulrich Schulz-Buschhaus. Tiibingen: Gunter Narr, 
1993. 249-63. 

Michel, Alain. “Du Héros antique au Roland furieux: le chevalier, le courtisan, 
le saint.” Le Roman de chevalerie au temps de la Renaissance. Ed. Marie- 
Therese Jones-Davies. Paris: Touzot, 1987. 11-27. 

Minutelli, Marzia. “Il lamento dell’eroina abbandonata nell’Orlando furioso 
(X,xx-xxxiv).” Rivista di letteratura italiana (Pisa) 9 (1991): 401-64. 

Mirollo, James V. “On the Significant Acoustics of Ariosto’s Noisy Poem.” 


312 Robert J. Rodini 


MLN 103 (1988): 87-112. 

Mitsi, Efterpi. “Writing Against Pictures: A Study of Ekphrasis in Epics by 
Homer, Virgil, Ariosto, Tasso and Spenser.” DAI 52/12 (1992): 4322A. 
New York University. 

Moestrup, J@rn. “Studi recenti sul teatro dell’ Ariosto.” La corte di Ferrara e il 
suo mecenatismo (1441-1598). Ed. Marianne Pade, Lene Waage Petersen, 
and Daniela Quarta. Modena: Panini, 1990. 189-94. 

Monle6n, José. “Ronconi, por tergera vez.” Primer Acto: cuadernos de 
investigacion teatral. 232 (1990): 24-31. [Dramatic adaptation by Luca 
Ronconi] 

Monorchio, Giuseppe. “II duello nella trattatistica e nell’epica rinascimentale,” 
DAI 47/01 (1986): 196A. University of Wisconsin, Madison. 

. “Tradizioni legali del duello giudiziario nell’episodio di Rinaldo e 
Ginevra nell’ Orlando furioso.” Quaderni d’ italianistica 9 (1988): 171-98. 
Morabito, Raffaele. “Spigolature fra Boiardo e Ariosto.” Studi e problemi di 

critica testuale 43 (1991): 95-102. 

Moretti, Walter. “Carlo V e i suoi ‘capitani invitti’ nel Furioso del 1532.” 
Rinascimento meridionale e altri studi in onore di Mario Santoro. Ed. Maria 
Cristina Cafisse et al. Napoli: Societa editrice napoletana, 1987. 321-31. 

. “La diversita del Tasso nella Ferrara dell’ Ariosto.” Esperienze letterarie 
17 (1992): 19-30. 

. “Gli ultimi canti del Furioso: il viaggio dell’Ariosto nel mondo 
dell’ ‘avarizia.’” Studi in onore di Lanfranco Caretti. Ed. Walter Moretti. 
Modena: Mucchi, 1987. 25-44. 

Morgan, Leslie Zarker. “An Ariostan Note: ‘Bere alla francesca’.’” Forum 
Ttalicum 20 (1986): 100-106. 

, trans. Ludovico Ariosto, Five Cantos. New York: Garland, 1992. 

Murrin, Michael. “The Seige of Paris.” MLN 103 (1988): 134-53. 

Navarro Salazar, Maria Teresa. “El! Negromante: Satira social y vida cotidiana.” 
Epos: Revista de Filologia 5 (1989): 409-25. 

Nicolopulos, Jaime. “Cortes’s Shark Meets Orlando’s Orca: The Transformation 
of History and Poetic Imitation in the First Golden Age Epic Treatment of 
the New World.” Lucero: A Journal of Iberian and Latin American Studies 1 
(1990): 1-9. 

Nieto Jiménez, Lidio. “Los glosarios de 1553 de A. Ulloa.” Revista de filologia 
espanola 71 (1991): 253-85. [Glossary of Fernando de Rojas, La Celestina 
and the OF]. 

Ordine, Nuccio. “Vittoria Colonna nell’Orlando furioso.” Studi e problemi di 
critica testuale 42 (1991): 55-92. 

Osborne, Laurie. “Dramatic Play in Much Ado about Nothing: Wedding the 
Italian Novella and English Comedy.” Philological Quarterly 69 (1990): 
167-88. 

Pace, Enrica. “Aspetti tipografico-editoriali di un ‘best seller’ del sec. XVI: 








Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 313 


l’Orlando furioso.” Schifanoia 3 (1987): 103-14. 

Pade, Marianne, Lene Waage Petersen, and Daniela Quarta, ed. La corte di Ferrara 
e il suo mecenatismo, 1441-1598. Ferrara: Edizioni Panini, 1990. 

Panizzi, Anthony. La vita di Ariosto. Trans. Alessandro Marcigliano. Ferrara: 
Deputazione provinciale ferrarese di storia patria, 1988. 

Pasotti, Orietta. “Dai cantari ai poemi cavallereschi: prestigio e crisi del mago 
Malagigi.” Rassegna della letteratura italiana 95 (1991): 39-48. 

Pavlock, Barbara. “Ariosto and Roman Epic Values.” Eros, Imitation, and the 
Epic Tradition. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1990. 147-86. 

Pellegrini, Rienzo. “Per una nuova lettura del Furioso friulano.” Diverse lingue 
10 (1991): 53-72. 

Petersen, Lene Waage. “Calvino lettore dell’ Ariosto.” Revue romane 26 (1991): 
230-45. 

. “Il poeta creatore del principe: ironia e interpretazione in Orlando 
furioso.” La corte di Ferrara e il suo mecenatismo (1441-1598). Ed. 
Marianne Pade, Lene Waage Petersen, and Daniela Quarta. Modena: Panini, 
1990. 195-211. 

Petersen, Lene Waage and Daniela Quarta. “Appunti sul duello in Ariosto e in 
Tasso.” Revue Romane 25 (1990): 414-27. 

Pettinelli, Rosanna Alhaique. “Dal ‘divino’ Ariosto all’‘umanissimo’ Ariosto.” 
Poetica e metodo Storico-critico nell’ opera di Walter Binni. Ed. Mario 
Costanzo, et al. Roma: Bonacci, 1985. 254-72. 

. “Un tempio/una citta: Venezia in un poema cavalleresco alla meta del 
Cinquecento.” Rassegna della letteratura italiana 95 (1991): 60-70. [On 
Ariosto and Vincenzo Brusantini’s Angelica innamorata] 

Piéjus, Marie-Francoise. “Le Pays des femmes homicides: utopie et monde a 
l’envers.” Espaces réels et espaces imaginaires dans le Roland furieux. Ed. 
Alexadre Doroszlai et al. Paris: Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1991. 
87-127. 

Piletic, Milana. “Le ‘Satire’ dell’ Ariosto e le ‘Podruguse’ di Ljubisa.” Jtalica 
Belgradensia 3 (University of Belgrade) Belgrado: Facolta di Lettere, 1990: 
133-44. 

Pollin, Alice M. “El Orlando furioso de Francisco Bances Candamo: importante 
interpretaci6n dramatico-musical del tema ariostesco.” Cuadernos de teatro 
classico (Madrid) 3 (1989): 95-106. 

Ponte, Giovanni. “Attilio Momigliano e gli studi sul Pulci e sull’Ariosto.” La 
rassegna della letteratura italiana 93 (Serie VIII) (1989): 43-57. 

. “Walter Binni studioso dell’ Ariosto.” Poetica e metodo storico-critico 
nell’opera di Walter Binni. Ed. Mario Costanzo, at al. Roma: Bonacci, 
1985. 227-53. 

Pugliese, Olga Zorzi. “Svestire la commedia: La Lena dell’ Ariosto.” Rivista di 
studi italiani 4 (1986); 5 (1987): 1-10. 

Quint, David. Epic and Empire: Politics and Generic Form from Virgil to 


314 Robert J. Rodini 


Milton. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 

Rati, Giancarlo. “Ludovico Ariosto e la critica (1974-1985).” Cultura e scuola 
25:97 (1986): 23-35; 25:98 (1986): 27-34. 

Reynolds, Barbara. “Ariosto, Creator of Romantic Epic.” Literature Criticism 
from 1400-1800, VI: Excerpts from Criticism of the Works of Fifteenth, 
Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth-Century Novelists, Poets, 
Playwrights, Philosophers, and Other Creative Writers from the First 
Published Critical Appraisals to Current Evaluations. Ed. James E. Person 
and Robin DuBlanc. Detroit: Gale, 1987. 13-17. 

. “The Pleasure Craft.” The Translator’s Art: Essays in Honour of Betty 
Radice. Ed. William Radice and Barbara Reynolds. Harmondsworth, 
England: Penguin, 1987. 129-42. 

Rhu, Lawrence F. The Genesis of Tasse’s Narrative Theory: English 
Translations of the Early Poetics and a Comparative Study of Their 
Significance. Detroit: Wayne State UP, 1993. [Significant discussion of 
Ariosto and Tasso] 

Rinaldi, Maria Teresa. “Woman in the Renaissance: Ariosto’s Orlando furioso 
and Spenser’s The Faerie Queene.” DAI 50 (1989): 945A. University of 
Lancaster, Great Britian. 

Rizzo, Anna. “Similitudini e comparazioni nell’ Orlando furioso.”Rassegna della 
letteratura italiana 94:3 (1990): 83-88. 

Robey, David. “Rhymes in the Renaissance Epic: A Computer Analysis of 
Pulci, Boiardo, Ariosto and Tasso.” Romance Studies 17 (1990): 97-111. 
Roche, Thomas P., Jr. “Ariosto’s Marfisa: Or, Camilla Domesticated.” MLN 

103 (1988): 113-33. 

. “Ending the New Arcadia: Virgil and Ariosto.” Sidney Newsletter 10 
(1989): 3-12. 

Rochon, André. “La Mer dans le Roland furieux.” Espaces réels et espaces 
imaginaires dans le “Roland Furieux". Ed. Alexandre Doroszlai et al. Paris: 
Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1991. 129-249. 

Roffi, Mario. /1 grande silenzio di messer Ludovico: Ariosto e Machiavelli. 
Castel Maggiore: Book Editore, 1992. 

Rodini, Robert J. “Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism, 1980-87.” MLN 
103 (1988): 187-203. 

Romers, C. “Orlando furioso en de structuur van haemoglobine: Structuur in 
mensen exacte wetenschappen.” Forum der Letteren 27 (1986): 210-17. 
[Structure compared to natural sciences; considers Dalla Palma] 

Rorschach, Kimerly. “Fragonard and Gravelot at the Rosenbach Museum and 
Library.” Apollo 121 (1985): 418-19. [Exhibition note] 

Ross, Charles. ““Ariosto’s Fable of Power: Bradamante at the Rocca di Tristano.” 
Italica 68 (1991): 155-75. 

Rossi, Massimo. “La geografia del Furioso.” Tesi di laurea (1985-86). Facolta di 
Magistero, Ferrara. 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 315 


Saccone, Edoardo. “Figures of Silence in the Orlando furioso.” MLN 107 
(1992): 36-45. 

Salkeld, Duncan. “Ariosto’s Orlando furioso and The Spanish Tragedy.” Notes 
and Queries 38 (1991): 28-29. 

Salvadori Lonergan, C. “Angelica redenta? Reflections on One More Sinned 
Against Than Sinning.” Renaissance and Other Studies: Essays Presented to 
Peter M. Brown. Ed. Eileen A. Millar. University of Glasgow, 1988. 94- 
110. 

Santoro, Anna. “Funzione dei personaggi femminili nell’Ariosto di Mario 
Santoro.” Esperienze letterarie 16 (1991): 95-104. 

Santoro, Mario. Ariosto e il Rinascimento. Napoli: Liguori, 1989. 

. “Il binomio umanistico ‘bonta’ e ‘dottrina’ nella satira ariostesca 
dell’ educazione.’” Esperienze letterarie 13 (1988): 3-16. 

Sapegno, Natalino, ed. J] Quattrocento e I’ Ariosto. Milano: Garzanti, 1988. 

Sberlati, Francesco. “Retorica e sintassi nel XII del Furioso.” Lingua e stile 27 
(1992): 379-404. 

Schiesari, Juliana. “The Domestication of Woman in Orlando furioso 42 and 43, 
or A Snake is Being Beaten.” Stanford Italian Review 10 (1991): 123-43. 

Scianatico, Giovanna. “I modelli letterari della pazzia: Erasmo e 1’ Ariosto.” J/ 
dubbio della ragione. Forme dell’irrazionalita nella letteratura del 
Cinquecento. Venezia: Marsilio, 1989. 19-56. 

Segre, Cesare. “D’un Miroir a l’autre: la lune et la terre dans le Roland furieux.” 
Die Pluralitdt der Welten: Aspekte der Renaissance in der Romania. Ed. 
Wolf-Dieter Stempel and Karlheinz Stierle. Munich: Fink, 1987. 169-79. 

. “Pio Rajna: le fonti e l’arte dell’Orlando furioso.” Strumenti critici 5 
(1990): 315-27. 

. “La favola della luna (Ariosto, Sat. II, 208-31) e i suoi precedenti.” 
Book Production and Letters in the Western European Renaissance: Essays 
in Honor of Conor Fahy. Ed. Anna Laura Lepschy, et al. London: Modern 
Humanities Research Assn., 1986. 279-83. 

Shemek, Deanna. “That Elusive Object of Desire: Angelica in the Orlando 
furioso.” Annali d’italianistica 7 (1989): 116-41. 

. “Women in Ariosto’s Orlando furioso.” DAI 49 (1989:1819A. The 
Johns Hopkins University. 

. “Of Women, Knights, Arms, and Love: The Querelle des Femmes in 
Ariosto’s Poem.” MLN 104 (1989): 68-97. 

Sherberg, Michael. “Ariosto’s Rinaldo: The Fall of Man and the Rise of 
Literature.” DAI 47/09 (1987): 3445A-3446A. University of California, Los 
Angeles. 

. Rinaldo: Character and Intertext in Ariosto and Tasso. Saratoga, 
California: Anma Libri, 1993. 

Silberman, Lauren. “Spenser and Ariosto: Funny Peril and Comic Chaos.” 
Comparative Literature Studies 25 (1988): 23-34. 








316 Robert J. Rodini 


Sitterson, Joseph C. Jr. “Allusive and Elusive Meanings: Reading Ariosto’s 
Vergilian Ending.” Renaissance Quarterly 45 (1992): 1-19. 

Terpening, Ronnie H. “Between Ariosto and Tasso: Lodovico Dolce and the 
Chivalric Romance.” /talian Quarterly 27 (1986): 31-37. 

Tognoli, Rita. “L’intelligenza narrativa del Furioso: le idee letterarie di Ariosto.” 
Esperienze letterarie 14 (1989): 63-76. 

. “Teatro e teatralita nel Furioso.” Lettere italiane 44 (1992): 432-39. 

Torti, Luigia. Correggio e Ariosto: il pittore, il poeta e il loro tempo. {no city]: 
Tipografia Bodoniana, 1986. 

Treip, Mindele Anne. Allegorical Poetics and the Epic: The Renaissance 
Tradition to Paradise Lost. Lexington: The UP of Kentucky, 1993. 

Tylus, Jane. “The Curse of Babel: The Orlando furioso and Epic 
(Mis)Appropriation.” MLN 103 (1988): 154-71. 

Vasoli, Cesare. “Francesco Patrizi e il dibattito sul poema epico.” Res Publica 
Litterarum: Studies in the Classical Tradition 12 (1989): 251-66. 

Vazzana, Steno. “Postilla sulla presenza di Dante in Ariosto.” L’ Alighieri 28 
(1987): 22-44. 

Vianello, Valerio. “Dal testo letterario al testo spettacolare: i prologhi di 
Ludovico Ariosto.” Biblioteca teatrale 16 (1989): 81-103. 

Visani, Oriana. “La tecnica dell’esordio nel poema cavalleresco dei cantari 
all’ Ariosto.” Schifanoia 3 (1987): 45-84. 

Watkins, John Allen. “Spenser and the Vergilian Heritage.” DAI 52/01 (1991): 
158A. Yale University. 

Watson, Linda Ann. “Ariostan Echoes: The Individual and Society in Calvino’s 
Trilogy.” DAI 29/04 (1991): 554A. University of Minnesota. 

Wiggins, Peter DeSa. “Spenser’s Anxiety.” MLN 103 (1988): 75-86. 

. “Spenser’s Use of Ariosto: Imitation and Allusion in Book I of the 
Faerie Queene.” Renaissance Quarterly 44 (1991): 257-79. 

Wiggins, Peter De Sa and Eduardo Saccone, eds. Perspectives on Ariosto’s 
Orlando furioso. Special issue of MLN 103 (1988). 

Wilson, Timothy. “Xanto and Ariosto.” Burlington Magazine 132 (1990): 321- 
20% 

Winklehner, Brigitte. “Zu den Auswirkungen des Romanzo-Streites der 
italienischen Renaissance auf die Frage der Abgrenzung von Epos und 
Roman in der franzésischen Romantheorie.” Das Epos in der Romania: 
Festschrift fur Dieter Kremers zum 65. Geburtstag. Ed. Susanne Knaller and 
Edith Mara. Tiibingen: Narr, 1986: 415-30. 

Yavneh, Naomi. “The Threat of Sensuality: Tasso’s Temptress and the Counter- 
Reformation.” DAI 53/06 (1992): 1903A. University of California, 
Berkeley. [Deals with temptress in OF] 

Zago, Ester. “Magia come allucinazione: la foresta incantata nel XIII canto della 
Gerusalemme liberata.” Selecta 7 (1986): 117-22. [Sources in Ariosto, 
among others] 


Selected Bibliography of Ariosto Criticism: 1986-1993 317 


Zatti, Sergio. “Il cosmo, la corte, il poema: il sistema delle corrispondenze nel 
Furioso.” Italianistica 28 (1989): 367-93. 
.Il “Furioso” fra epos and romanzo. Lucca: Pacini Fazzi, 1990. 
. “L’inchiesta, e alcune considerazioni sulla forma del Furioso.” MLN 
103 (1988): 1-30. 
Zoric, Mate. “L’Ariosto, gli schiavoni e l’assedio di Belgrado.” Quaderni del 
giornale filologico ferrarese, 11. 1988. 





University of Wisconsin -Madison 








Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 319 
ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 


Edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Massimo Maggiari with the 
collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Albert N. Mancini, Gustavo 
Costa, Valeria Finucci, and John P. Welle. 


* eK 


Alfredo Stussi. Lingua, dialetto e letteratura. Torino: Einaudi, 
1993. Pp. 260. 


When Alfredo Stussi printed his Studi e documenti di storia della lingua e dei dialetti 
italiani (Bologna: Il Mulino, 1982), a reviewer, Claudio Marazzini, aptly remarked 
that in the volume Stussi had previously written on the same subject for Einaudi’s 
Storia d'Italia (Lingua, dialetto e letteratura,” Storia d'Italia, 1, I caratteri originali, 
Torino: Einaudi, 1972, 679-728) the title of the synthesis had been “Lingua, dialetto 
e letteratura,” because, being a historical abridgment, it was necessary to place 
philology in the second place. Marazzini continued observing that in the book he 
was now reviewing linguistics was given full billing and gave thanks to the author 
for having thus switched emphasis (Claudio Marazzini, review of Alfredo Stussi’s 
Studi e documenti, Giornale Storico della letteratura italiana 161 [1984]: 466-470). It 
should be kept in mind that Stussi often edited in book form articles that had 
previously appeared in various scholarly journals. There is nothing wrong with 
collecting one’s articles in a book and offering it to the scholarly world, as long as 
the bibliography is kept up to date and the chapters are integrated in a logical 
sequence. In the Studi e documenti volume, for instance, the study covered a wide span 
of time, reaching as recent a period as the second half of the nineteenth century, with 
essays on Salomone Morpurgo and Graziadio Isaia Ascoli; yet the articles 
complemented each other almost perfectly, because of the limited scope of the 
subject. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the present book, in which the 
articles on language, dialect, and literature vie with each other for the reader’s 
interest, without reaching an integrated unity. Why a scholar of such impeccable 
credentials as Stussi (he is a full professor at the very prestigious Scuola Normale 
Superiore di Pisa and has been a contributor to scholarly journals since 1970) has 
agreed to publish so many disparate articles in a new book is a little puzzling, unless 
he has simply succumbed to Einaudi’s blandishments. 

The first chapter, “Lingua, dialetto e letteratura” (3-63) had appeared, as it has 
been mentioned, in the Einaudi Storia d'Italia (Stussi 1972). Do not attempt to read 
the discussion in the first few pages without first going back to your graduate school 
notes on the changes from Latin to Vulgar Latin and to Italian: it is highly technical. 
Since the essay in its present form has not improved upon the 1972 version, it would 
be much simpler to read it in the original. In spite of not having been brought up to 
date, the second part of the same chapter, entitled “Il plurilinguismo del tardo 
Cinquecento e del Seicento” (29-37), should be read and pondered upon, since it still 
remains one of the best explanations of the phenomenon written to this day. 


320 Annali d italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


The second chapter, “La letteratura in dialetto nel Veneto” (62-106), is much 
more up-to date, and has been concurrently presented for publication to Atti del 
convegno su la letteratura dialettale preunitaria, Palermo: Facolta di lettere, 1993. It 
is a highly specialized essay, but should be of great interest to the researcher in the 
history of Renaissance theater, since the pages on Beolco (75-79) are filled with 
excellent scholarship, as are the pages devoted to Goldoni (86-92). 

Chapter three, “I] mercante veneziano” (107-128), had appeared in Cultura 
popolare nel Veneto. Arti e mestieri tradizionali, Milano: Amilcare Pizzi, 1989. It 
encompasses the period intervening between the Gothic and Lombard hegemony and 
the end of the golden age for the Serenissima. It attempts to paint a picture of the 
ascendence and decline of the Venetian ruling class, and, in spite of the fact that 
Christian Bec and Vittore Branca had already described the phenomenon in detail, 
Stussi gives an excellent bird’s eye view of the topic. 

Chapter four, “Scelte linguistiche e connotati regionali nella novella italiana” 
(129-153), had already appeared in La novella italiana. Atti del convegno di 
Caprarola 19-24 settembre 1988, Salerno: Edizioni Roma, 1989, I, 191-214. It is, as 
the author himself defines it, “una scorribanda su alcuni aspetti delle discussioni 
linguistiche cinquecentesche” (139) and shows the author’s profound scholarly 
preparation and deep knowledge of Sixteenth-century literature. Of course, it is only 
of interest to the “addetto ai lavori” and, for the very reason of being “una 
scorribanda,” it is rather rambling and easy to follow only for the most initiated 
specialist. 

Chapter five, “Lingua e problema della lingua in Luigi Capuana” (154-183), has 
already appeared in L’illusione della realta. Atti del convegno di Montréal 16-18 
marzo 1989, Roma: Salerno, 1989, 11-41. It brings into light the linguistic 
compromise between Sicilian and Tuscan in the pen of Capuana, adduces many 
interesting examples and paints a clear picture of a writer who, throughout his life, 
was obsessed by the notion of not knowing well either the Italian grammar or Italian 
spelling (177). 

Chapter six, “Grammatica della poesia: appunti sui versi tursitani di Pierro” 
(184-196), had appeared in JI transito del vento: il mondo e la poesia di Albino 
Pierro, Napoli: Edizioni scientifiche, 1989, 9-20, which in turn had already appeared 
in Lingua e stile 22 (1987), 295-305. Considering that Pierro has not yet reached 
international (not even national) proportions, and that the essay is highly technical, 
it is questionable why it was included in the volume. The same can be said of chapter 
seven “La letteratura romagnola: appunti filologici e linguistici” (197-213), that has 
been submitted to La poesia dialettale romagnola del Novecento. Atti del Convegno 
di Sant’Arcangelo, 14-16 dicembre 1989. It is of such limited scope, being a strictly 
linguistic study of poetry in the “romagnolo” dialect, that it can be of interest only to 
a handful of interested aficionados. 

Chapter eight, “Filologia e storia della lingua italiana” (214-248), had appeared 
in Yearbook of Italian Studies 9 (1991), although the bibliography stops at 1988. In 
spite of the rather polemic tone, it is a lively discussion of the relationship between 
philology and linguistics and again shows the solid scholarly foundation of the 
author. 

Chapter nine, “Ancora su linguistica e critica letteraria” (235-248), appeared in 
Lezioni sul Novecento. Storia, teoria e analisi letteraria, Milano: Vita e pensiero, 


Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 321 


1990, 209-220. Why the essay is not accompanied by footnotes or by any scholarly 
apparatus is not explained, although there are quotations to Verlaine (244) and to 
Chomski (245) that would certainly necessitate elucidation. There is an index of 
authors (251-260). Why an index of works cited has not been included, placing upon 
the reader the burden of searching for bibliographical items, remains also a mystery. 
Since many of the essays contained in the book have appeared in rather obscure 
Italian publications, in spite of the obvious bibliographical gaps, the volume should 
be perused by the specialist who wants to be brought up to date of the nooks and 
crannies discovered by Stussi. Even in the most abstruse linguistic discussions Stussi 
remains crystal clear, a feat not too common among modern Italian scholars. 
Robert C. Melzi, Widener University 


The Italian Collections Across the Centuries: Literature, Art, and 
Theatre. An Exhibition in Honor of the XIII Annual Meeting of the 
American Association for Italian Studies at the University of Texas 
at Austin. Selected and Described by Maria Xenia Zevelechi Wells 
with the Assistance of Katharine Harlow Tighe. The _ Library 
Chronicle of the University of Texas at Austin, vol. 23, 2/3. Pp. 
179. 


On the occasion of the XIII Annual Meeting of the American Association for Italian 
Studies that took place in Austin, the University of Texas resolved to honor the 
Association by exhibiting the Italian Collection preserved in the Harry Ransom 
Humanities Research Library of the University of Texas at Austin. 

The exhibition has been lovingly described by Maria X. Wells, Curator of Italian 
Collections, in a volume that is just as pleasurable to read as it is delightful to browse 
through. The Curator does not need an introduction: born and educated in Italy, prior 
to her present position she has been, for a number of years, a member of the faculty in 
the Italian Department of the University of Texas and has shown her interest in 
Italian manuscripts held in American libraries by editing, for the University of Texas, 
the collection of the Ranuzzi Manuscripts (Maria X. Wells, The Ranuzzi Manuscripts, 
Austin: The U of Texas, 1980) and by portraying Post-1600 Manuscripts and Family 
Archives in North-American Libraries for the Italian Publisher Longo (Italian Post- 
1600 Manuscripts and Family Archives in North-American Libraries, Ravenna: 
Longo, 1992). 

As Paolo Biasin aptly remarks in the forward to the volume, the holdings of the 
Italian Collection are “a tangible and moving testimony of the historical 
development of Italian culture, from the first printed edition of the Divine Comedy to 
the manuscript of Carlo Levi’s Cristo si é fermato a Eboli” (9). The present volume 
also reflects the growing interest in interdisciplinary studies that is being exhibited 
in major universities, inasmuch as it presents a united view of the development of 
Italian literature, art, and theatre, through the centuries. 

The manuscripts collection ranges from a 1363 manuscript of the Divine 
Comedy, to a collection of Petrarchan sonnets penned ca. 1450, to the manuscripts of 
the contemporary writers Volponi and Coccioli. In the incunabula collection, the 


322 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


center is the proud owner of a Lactantius, printed in Subiaco by Pannartz and 
Schweinheim in 1465, of a Divine Comedy, printed in Foligno by Johann Neumeister 
and Evangelista Angelini, in 1472, and of a magnificent 1499 Aldine edition of 
Francesco Colonna Hypnerotomachia Poliphili. Among the holdings of the Medici 
collection, there are another edition of Dante’s Commedia with the annotations of 
Landino and Vellutello (Venice: Sessa, 1596) and a 1582 Giunti edition of 
Boccaccio’s Decameron. 

Noteworthy among the moderns are the papers of the symposium on James 
Joyce, held in Trieste in 1982, and some very interesting documents of Joyce’s great 
friend, the “Triestino” Italo Svevo. Futurism is present in documents of Marinetti, 
Russolo, Balla, and Depero; the Ezra Pound collection is exhibited in documents of 
Ungaretti and in an edition of Dante’s Commedia that Pound was reading in 1904. 
Finally, the almost complete history of Botteghe Oscure comes into view, with the 
reading of Marguerite Caetani’s and Eugene Walter’s correspondence. 

The lover of the theatre will be delighted to find over 3,800 libretti in the Kraus 

Collection, among which Rinuccini’s 1600 edition of La Dafne and Giuseppe Verdi’s 
first edition of Aida. Moreover, the theater aficionado will delight in admiring 
Callots’ 1622 etchings of Balli di Sfessania and Schenks famous scene from the 
Commedia dell’Arte. The Stanley Marcus Collection of Sicilian Marionettes and 
related books will kindle the interest not only of art lovers but also of anyone who 
will recognize in the Sicilian tradition of the Paladins of France the roots of the 
“Opera dei Pupi.” Those who still vividly remember Federico Fellini’s, Lina 
Wertmiiller’s, and Michelangelo Antonioni’s films will be fascinated by just looking 
over the Eugene Walter Archive. 
The historian and the political scientist will find ample material to ponder in the 
Gino Speranza Library of Books on Italo-American Relations and in the Arthur 
Livingston Archives. Finally, the art lover will find enormous pleasure in looking 
over the art collection, which contains also a great abundance of material of interest 
to the social historian. 

Every item is accompanied by an ample account of the book’s, document’s, or 
drawing’s history, and by an exhaustive description of how the Harry Ransom 
Research Center acquired the item under scrutiny. A supercilious critic might object to 
calling Turoldus (37), a Norman, with the name of “troubadour,” a definition normally 
reserved to Provengal poets — a very minor imperfection in an otherwise excellent 
volume that is lavishly illustrated. The cover is adored by the figure of “Chout [a 
ballet by Prokofiev], il Buffone,” by the noted artist Emanuele Luzzati, whose works 
were recently exhibited at the Centre Pompidou in Paris. “Lele,” as his friends call 
him, would be proud of it. 

This volume is a real godsend for department chairmen and dissertation 
supervisors, who will find in the Italian Harry Ransom Collection ample material to 
suggest to potential Ph.D. candidates. 


Robert C. Melzi (Emeritus), Widener University 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 323 


Tronzo, William, ed. Intellectual Life at the Court of Frederick II 
Hohenstaufen. Washington: National Gallery of Art; Hanover, 
Distributed by the University Press of New England, 1994. Pp. 296 
with illustrations. 


It is entirely appropriate that the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts, 
founded in 1979 as part of the National Gallery of Art, waited four years to publish the 
results of its 1990 symposium on Frederick II. For 1994 marks the eight-hundredth 
anniversary of the birth of this renowned Holy Roman Emperor. 

This handsome volume, the twenty-fourth in the symposium series, Studies in 
the History of Art, will be of special interest to Italianists in general and to 
medievalists in particular. /ntellectual Life at the Court of Frederick II Hohenstaufen 
comprises fifteen essays in Italian, German and English by distinguished scholars of 
history and art history from Europe and the United States. The Italian contributors are 
Carla Ghisalberti of the University of Rome “La Sapienza”; Piero Morpurgo, who 
teaches history and Italian literature in Vicenza; Massimo Oldoni, professor of 
medieval Latin literature and head of the department of philology and medieval 
history at the University of Salerno; Giulia Orofino, a historian now engaged in 
editing the corpus of miniatures of the high Middle Ages at Montecassino; Valentino 
Pace, a member of the Departimento di studi sulle societa e le culture del Medioevo at 
the University of Rome “La Sapienza”; and Antonio Thiery, a medievalist and cultural 
historian who is also an executive of RAI. 

In his introduction, William Tronzo indicates that the essays in the present 
volume “take the intellectual life of Frederick’s reign as their point of departure” (11). 
The working definition of “intellectual life” is a broad one, including not only 
science, philosophy, and the ars dictaminis, but also sculpture, architecture, 
manuscript production, economics and social attitudes. This more inclusive approach 
reflects a change in historical methodology. 

One result of this change in approach is that recent research into Frederick and 
his sphere of influence has sought to present a more balanced, objective view of the 
emperor. This perspective stands in sharp contrast to nineteenth- and early twentieth- 
century research on Frederick, dominated by German scholars — Jakob Burckhardt, 
Edward Winkelmann, Karl Hampe, Hans Niese and Emst Kantorowicz were important 
contributors — which tended to glorify and idealize this ruler and hence to produce 
what Tronzo refers to as “a kind of crisis of overevaluation” (12). Today, scholars 
such as those whose studies we find in this volume are seriously reassessing 
Frederick’s place in history. As Tronzo observes, this reassessment reflects two 
recent intellectual developments. The first, which specifically concerns Frederick, is 
the reevaluation, sometimes in a very elementary manner, of the primary evidence of 
Frederician culture and intellectual life, including artifacts such as treaties, letters, 
illuminations, sculpture and buildings. For example, in his essay on “Literary 
Activities of the Imperial and Papal Chanceries during the Struggle between Frederick 
II and the Papacy,” Peter Herde questions whether extant epistles were actually used in 
diplomatic communications or whether they merely served as sophisticated writing 
exercices. In an analogous fashion, Willibald Sauerlander and Valentino Pace argue 
that Frederick may not have been so intimately involved in the production of art 
works and architecture as has been generally thought. 


324 Annali @’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


The second development that has influenced recent Frederician studies has to do 
with changing approaches to the study of history. As a result of the studies initiated 
by the Annales school and others, some historians now tend to integrate the role of 
the individual into the matrix of larger social, economic and cultural forces. In this 
regard, the essays of David Abulafia and James Powell are illuminating. Abulafia, in 
reevaluating Frederick’s relation with the Jews and Muslims of his Sicilian kingdom, 
concludes that Frederick was much less tolerant of religious and ethnic diversity than 
historians have previously believed and that his policies toward these two groups 
were motivated by practical and self-interested considerations. Powell comes to 
similar conclusions regarding Frederick’s economic policies, which he views as often 
exploitative of his subjects. Powell’s interpretation counters the widely accepted 
notion that this emperor was an economic innovator. 

Although none of the essays in this book directly explores the topic of greatest 
interest to Italianists (i.e., the poetry of the scucla siciliana), Intellectual Life at the 
Court of Frederick II Hohenstaufen is nevertheless an invaluable tool for the student 
of early Italian literature. For it is only through a less ideological and more nuanced 
understanding of the cultural and intellectual underpinnings of Frederick’s Sicilian 
court and realm that we can fully appreciate the significance of the contribution of the 
scuola siciliana to the world of Italian letters. 

At this point, I think it is important to mention a few other recent conferences 
and publications on Frederick and his reign that are important because they have 
influenced the way in which we view this emperor. Beginning in 1989, the 
International Seminar on Frederick II took place at the Ettore Majorana Center for 
Scientific Culture in Erice, Sicily. This convegno explored three facets of Frederick’s 
time: “Theory and Practice of Government,” “Culture and Knowledge at the Time of 
Frederick” and “Frederick II and the Italian Cities.” Two recent publications worthy of 
note are David Abulafia’s eminently readable biography, Frederick II: A Medieval 
Emperor (London: A. Lane, the Penguin Press, 1988) and Politica e cultura nell’ Italia 
di Federico II (Pisa: 1986), edited by Sergio Gensini, the first volume of the Collana 
di studi e ricerche of the Centro di Studi sulla Civilta del Tardo Medioevo, San Miniato 
(Pisa). 

Since the essays in Intellectual Life at the Court of Frederick II Hohenstaufen are 
well researched and copiously annotated, this volume richly satisfies its conceived 
purpose “‘to stimulate further study” (9). Published under the auspices of the National 
Gallery of Art, it is, not surprisingly, a sumptuous book. With a page size of nine by 
eleven inches, this volume is generously embellished by two-hundred fourteen black 
and white illustrations of varying sizes depicting the architecture, sculpture, 
illuminated manuscripts and other artifacts pertaining to Frederick’s realms. In 
addition, the volume contains five color prints of extremely fine quality, two of 
which are reproduced as jacket illustrations. 

Intellectual Life at the Court of Frederick II Hohenstaufen is required reading for 
those studying the art, culture and society of the northern and southern realms of the 
Hohenstaufen empire. It is also highly recommendable for those scholars of medieval 
literature who wish more fully to understand the cultural and intellectual setting 
within which Italian lyric poetry had its beginnings. 


V. Louise Katainen, Auburn University 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 325 


Amilcare A. Iannucci, ed. Dante e la "bella scola" della poesia: 
autorita e sfida poetica. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 1993. Pp. 358. 


This collection of essays, among other things, signals to American scholars of Dante 
(and medievalists and Renaissance scholars as well) the fruitfulness of a strongly 
philological approach to the study of allusion. Refined by moder reception theory, 
this approach advances the interpretation of difficult allusive passages in Dante’s 
works without the pretension of positivist interpretative closure. The chief goal of 
the nine essays that compose this challenging and rewarding book is the exploration 
of the ideological filter through which Dante read and misread the classical auctors. 
Through citation of medieval glosses, commentaries, and biographies the preeminent 
scholars gathered here seek to uncover the ways in which the ancients were read and to 
come to a further understanding not only of Dante’s relation to the classical writers 
but also to his own Christian culture and its particular way of reading. The classical 
authors treated include Homer, Horace, Ovid, Virgil, Lucan, Statius, and Terence. Each 
contributor has provided a generous bibliography as well as ample notes, adding to 
the book’s substantial value. All of the essays are written in Italian and the abundant 
citations from Latin texts and commentaries are left untranslated. 

Many of the essays indicate the originality and force of Dante’s poetic vision 
after a careful scrunity of the ways in which Dante often falls in line with standard 
exegeses advanced by commentators. Sensitivity to the power of Dante’s conviction 
for the need of a redifinition of “comedy” is the basis of Claudia Villa’s essay on 
Dante’s reading of Horace and Zygmunt Baranski’s study on Dante’s relation to the 
Roman comic tradition. Villa devotes a large portion of her essay, which entails a 
great deal of citation from Latin glosses, toward establishing the traditional way of 
reading Horace as dogmatic and prescriptive against which Dante’s reading of the 
auctor is set. Dante, Villa concludes, “‘uses” a passage in the Ars Poetica to justify his 
rather radical redefinition of “comedy” in the Commedia. Yet Villa is careful not to 
suggest that Dante’s ideas have no precedent; rather, she hypothesizes that Dante 
found justification of his vision also in the one definition of comedy found in the 
Vita Brunsiana di Terenzio. Central to Baranski’s discussion is the relative absence in 
the Divine Comedy of the most canonical of comic poets in the medieval era, 
Terence. After a detailed look at the three places in Dante’s works in which Terence is 
evoked, Baranski decides that even though Dante’s direct knowledge of Terence’s 
work is doubtful, Dante is involved in a kind of sfida against the traditional 
classification of genres, specifically against that of comedy that Terence then 
represented. Yet the aspect of the sfida is mitigated by Dante’s self-conscious 
advancement beyond the limited vision of Terence. No real contest can take place; so 
Terence, in effect, is left out of the Commedia, and Dante himself becomes the new 
exemplum of comedy. 

Dante also gives us reason to believe that the nature of his sfida of the classical 
writers has as its basis his Christian vision. Dante’s belief that his poem completes 
and fulfills pagan suggestions of truth is explored in Amilcare Jannucci’s and 
Michelangelo Picone’s essays. Confronting the difficult question of the meaning of 
Dante’s self-inclusion in the circle of poets in Limbo, Iannucci concludes that 
Dante’s deference to the ancients should not be confused with humanism, pointing 
out that while humanism implies a sense of a break from and effort to recover 


326 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


classical art, Dante’s inclusion in the circle shows that the poet does not believe that 
a break has occurred. He is, rather, their fulfillment. Reading them through the filter 
of his Christianity, Dante sees his relation to the ancients as anagogical. Iannucci 
writes: “Il suo poema completera e sorpassera i loro, soprattutto nel contenuto, 
guidato come esso é dato da una trazione anagogica. In definitiva, Dante deriva, 0 cosi 
egli protesta, la sua autorita — ideologica e poetica — direttamente da Dio” (29). 
Picone sets Dante in relation to classical auctores, primarily Ovid, and concludes that 
Dante basically surpasses all of them because of the force of the vision that he derives 
from his Christian faith. Toward the end of the article, he adduces several specific 
places in the Commedia that recall the Metamorphoses, succeeding in showing 
through close analysis of the specific language of the poems the basic differences 
between the two poets. Throughout these analyses, too, the superiority of Dante’s 
Christian paradigm of authority is stressed. 

The remaining essays, excluding the compilation of references to Virgil given 
by Hollander, are careful considerations of often problematic aspects of Dante’s 
texts. They are exemplary philological studies that attempt to reconstruct the 
complex ways in which commentaries and glosses affect reading and the literary 
tradition itself. Gian Carlo Alessio and Claudia Villa’s collaborative essay suggests 
that the facts of Virgil’s life as given in /nferno 1.67-87 are ordered in such a way as 
to imitate a medieval introduction to an edition to Virgil that typically contained 
biographical imitation. The influential glosses on Virgil’s text Alessio and Villa cite 
also help to explain certain small but revealing “moves” in Dante’s text, such as why 
Dante presents Cacus as a centaur when Virgil’s text says only “semihominis.” The 
heavy use of parenthetical comments, though sometimes ponderous, are generally 
useful as references. In his essay on Homer, Giorgio Brugnoli, after a very useful 
demonstration of the non-Homeric sources for Dante’s references to the characters 
from the /liad and the Odyssey, takes up the question of the identification of the 
unnamed voice of /nferno 4, who greets Virgil, thus leading to a discussion of the 
status of Homer against that of Virgil in Dante’s text. Two of the important issues 
that Violetta de Angelis confronts in her essay on Dante and Lucan are the status of 
Cato and the meaning of Dante’s enigmatic need to call upon the second giogo of 
Parnasus at the opening of the Paradiso. She addresses these issues only after 
assiduously exploring Dante’s participation in and distance from his culture and the 
conditioned ways of reading Lucan. De Angelis looks at the commentaries on Lucan, 
examining how the glosses change the meaning of the text. More profound and 
impressive is her presentation of the ways in which commentaries condition the way 
both poets and commentators of later periods actually read. Dante was not immune to 
such an influence, yet his relation to the ancients, de Angelis suggests, was not 
determined by it either. Luca Carlo Rossi’s essay advances our understanding of 
several aspects of Dante’s characterization of Statius in the Commedia, among the 
most important of which is the poet’s inclusion of Statius within the cornice of the 
prodigal and Statius’s averred conversion to Christianity — aspects that have spurred 
much controversy and debate. Although Rossi admits that no presently known 
material written before Dante can be adduced to verify Dante’s view of Statius, he 
holds that, by looking at the research on the commentaries on Statius, the view of 
Statius as Christian arises from mediating glosses and not merely from Dante’s 
fantasy. 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 327 


Using an extensive bibliography of modern commentators on the Commedia, 
Robert Hollander expands greatly upon Edward Moore’s list of possible references to 
Virgil’s works in Dante’s Commedia, from one hundred and forty to around four 
hundred. The list, largely dependent on Hollander’s sensibility, is conceived of as a 
preliminary study, subject to revision by the judgment of other scholars. The list 
alone gives hints into Dante’s relation to Virgil, for it reveals that nearly twenty 
percent of the suggested allusions to Virgil occur in the first twentieth of the poem. 
In the first 707 verses Virgil is even more present than the Bible. 

Hollander has classified each allusion as “certain,” “probable,” and “possible,” 
A, B, and C, respectively. For Hollander the third group is the most problematic and 
suggestive, and he hopes that the pairings there will stimulate future study. There is a 
fourth category of about thirty citations, which Hollander sees as interesting even if 
dubious. Excluded from the list are obvious refences in the Commedia to characters 
and names of places from Virgil’s works. Hollander’s compilation is first given in 
tabular form, so that one can easily compare the number of references in each canto 
through all three canticles. A careful look at this chart shows that of the three hundred 
and sixty-four allusions of types A, B, and C, two hundred and forty-one of these are 
of the type C, those least certain and most speculative concerning Virgilian echoes. 
This fact alone indicates the evocative nature of Hollander’s work, which is as much 
an exercise in imagination as organization. Within ninety pages Hollander moves 
patiently line by line through the Commedia, beginning with the Jnferno. The 
relevant excerpt from Dante’s text is coupled with the corresponding Virgilian text. 
Each group is classified. In reading through the pairings, one becomes aware that 
Hollander has succeeded in providing a useful index of interpretive possibilities. This 
thoughtful and generous compilation is a fitting endpoint for this worthwhile book, 
which should be a stimulus to technical and interpretive advancement in Dante 
studies. 


Thomas E. Mussio, University of New Haven 


Teodolinda Barolini. The Undivine Comedy: Detheologizing Dante. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1992. Pp. 348. 


In her first chapter Barolini surveys critical treatment of the questions which her 
exhilarating book will examine, and they are vital ones: how are we to read Dante’s 
claims of the Commedia’s truth-value, and does he believe in them himself? In 
Barolini’s review of twentieth-century Dante criticism, critics of every stripe have 
climbed onto the chessboard which Dante has constructed for them and have limited 
their maneuvers to its surface, mistaking it for the world. Bowing to the Commedia’s 
internal rules, dantisti have foundered on non-questions: Is the Commedia allegory or 
poetry? Is its content a revelation or a fiction? Is Dante himself “the recorder of a 
genuine mystical experience (a ‘visionary’)” or “‘a writer of realistic narrative (a 
‘poet’)’? (145). Barolini pans back from the false oppositions with which Dante has 
beguiled us, and examines their mechanisms using a newly formalist, detheologizing 
reading strategy: “Detheologizing is not antitheological; it is not a call to abandon 


328 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


theology or to excise theological concerns from Dante criticism. Rather, 
detheologizing is a way of reading that attempts to break out of the hermeneutic 
guidelines that Dante has structured into his poem, hermeneutic guidelines that result 
in theologized readings whose outcomes have been overdetermined by the author. 
Detheologizing, in other words, signifies releasing our reading of the Commedia 
from the author’s grip, finding a way out of Dante’s hall of mirrors” (17). For 
Barolini, Dante both believes himself to be a prophet, and takes poetry (rhetoric, 
eloquence, metaphor) as his vehicle of representation; there is no logical 
incompatibility between the two. 

Barolini’s Dante is no Wizard of Oz, a small man stage-managing smoke and 
thunder from behind a curtain, but rather a giant whose genius we cannot fully value 
until we realize how shrewdly he has stage-managed us. She reveals this by 
privileging form, not over or against content, but as a lens through which to 
reexamine content. Barolini’s concern is to reveal the laws of Dante’s three realms, 
which he has presented as “moral, theological, eschatological” laws, to be writerly, 
textual, narrative ones — “less God’s laws than his own” (98). Her formalism entails 
a focus on, for example, lexical repetitions as signposts and shorthands for earlier 
narrative episodes; on the mechanics of transition between cantos, realms, terraces, 
modes of vision, and others; on the multiple, stuttering beginnings of the text (in 
Inferno I-VI) and on its staggered conclusion (in Paradiso XXII-XXXIII). She 
examines the lexicon and ethos of alternative modes of vision in the Purgatorio to 
argue that the entire poem does indeed recount a mystical experience, a “true and 
prophetic vision . . . seen in a waking sleep” (145). Through a careful attention to 
formal features she reveals how in Paradiso the poet alternates between unity and 
multiplicity, identity and difference, universality and historicity, eternity and time. 

The book devotes three chapters each to Inferno, Purgatorio, and Paradiso, 
essentially following the poem’s chronology as it unfolds in the time of writing and 
of reading. Barolini early sets out Jnferno’s construction of the poetics of the new, a 
mode of narrative exposition which will govern the entire poem as the pilgrim meets 
“le vite spiritali ad una ad una” (Par. 33:24). The poet remembers and recounts the new 
planets that swam into the pilgrim’s ken as he journeyed, until the moment at which 
his vision merges with the divine; all things, times, persons, places become co- 
present, all “cose nove” evaporate, and with them the poem. This sequential poetics 
works naturally in the /nferno and Purgatorio the poet creates, but will have to be 
grafted onto the unitary Paradiso through the pretext that the souls “choose” to reveal 
themselves in the single heavens instead of in the Empyrean. Whereas the poem 
needs this extension in time and space in order not to wink out in an epiphanic 
moment, Dante, typically, disguises this narrative imperative as a theological one, a 
function of the pilgrim’s epistemological insufficiency. 

In general, Barolini’s practice is to juxtapose and foreground the Commedia’s 
metanarrative moments, when the poet reflects on the limitations and possibilities of 
language, the imperatives of his poem, and the intersection of perception and 
representation in writing it. She offers brilliant extended readings of Purgatorio X- 
XII, Inferno XVI and XVII, Paradiso X-XIV, and others. One high point is her reading 
of the Geryon episode as the archetype of what will become a regular strategy in other 
cantiche: the very implausibility of the poet’s claims paradoxically becomes an 
authenticating device to convince the reader of their truthfulness. She also offers a 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 329 


magisterial reading of Ulysses as a “lightning-rod” for the poet himself — a recurring 
icon of excess and trespass which the poet invokes in order to discredit it, 
differentiating himself from Ulysses by claiming that his own voyage is authorized 
and true. Barolini tracks how Dante reinvokes tnis icon via lexicon, proxy and rhyme 
in Purgatorio and Paradiso, noting its (again, paradoxical) effectiveness in shoring 
up the poet’s own veracity, sincerity and humility. 

Unavoidably, Barolini’s presentation of Dante’s project shares one feature with 
the self-limiting criticism she deprecates. If earlier Dante critics wanted to avoid the 
disquieting proposition that Dante believed in what he was communicating, her 
decision that in fact he did believe it, likewise cuts her off from certain questions. Her 
conviction that Dante exposes language as a flawed vehicle of veracious 
communication, keeps her from truly exploring the alternative: what if Dante doesn’t 
believe? What if he knows his invention to be sinful, arrogant, transgressive, 
unauthorized? She takes issue with the proponents of a disingenuous Dante, but gives 
no explicit breakdown of what is at stake in positing the poet as a believer rather 
than a cynic. While she poses the question, “Does Dante read God correctly, as he 
claims, or does he read like Clement, composing a text whose vocaboli are vani?” 
(115), she does not really entertain, let alone explore, the latter possibility. 

Barolini’s documentation, thorough and concise, offers rich insights into and 
information on Dante studies as a whole, both Anglo-American and Italian. I 
occasionally wondered whether she has ever read a book of recent Dante criticism 
which she thoroughly enjoyed; and she rather too often opens a chapter reminding 
her readers that “Dante exegesis focus[es] as usual on what Dante says at the expense 
of what he does” (122). On the whole however her reading is so compelling, so 
exciting, that I was bound to agree with her assessment of the criticism which had 
missed the evidence she marshals so powerfully. She is a clear, elegant, deft and 
subtle writer, and this book confirms her stature as a preeminent American dantist. 
The Undivine Comedy should and will be tremendously influential in the field of 
Dante studies; moreover, its basis premise — that we should step back from an 
author’s claims, and scrutinize his or her practice — is a good lesson for other periods 
and national literatures as well. 


Regina Psaki, University of Oregon 


Angelo Mazzocco. Linguistic Theories in Dante and the Humanists: 
Studies of Language and Intellectual History in Late Medieval and 
Early Renaissance Italy. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1993. Pp. 270. 


This study examines two important stages in the development of Italian theories 
about language, specifically about the relationship between Latin and the modem 
vernacular. In the early Trecento, Dante offered his views of the subject in his Latin 
De vulgari eloquentia and his Italian Commedia. In the Quattrocento, several 
renowned humanists engaged in a debate on language which, in Mazzocco's view, was 
partly fueled by Dante's theories. Mazzocco has designed his book as an extended 
hysteron-proteron: he analyzes Dante's theories in Chapters 8-9 after discussing the 


330 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


humanist debate in Chapters 1-7. Three appendices examine specific problems in the 
writings of Dante and moder scholars. 

Mazzocco’s Chapter One recounts the celebrated debate of 1435 as recorded in 
extant documents. While the papal Curia was in Florence, Leonardo Bruni (then 
chancellor of the Commune and a former papal secretary) took issue with Flavio 
Biondo concerning the nature of the Latin language in antiquity. Bruni asserted that 
in ancient Rome, as in contemporary Italy, two languages coexisted and competed. 
Educated patricians acquired literary Latin, while commoners used a vernacular tongue 
which was something like present-day Italian, if not its actual forerunner. Biondo 
countered that there was no evidence for more than one Latin tongue in antiquity; 
rather, the Romance vernaculars arose later from the linguistic contamination of 
Latin by the Lombards and other invading peoples. 

Bruni’s improbable theory of Roman bilinguism won few adherents. Mazzocco 
seeks to explain its origins in Florentine cultural patriotism, outlining Dante’s 
linguistic theories in Chapter Two, and taking up Bruni’s defense in Chapter Three. 
Here and throughout his book, Mazzocco demonstrates his allegiance (occasionally 
tempered) to Hans Baron, whose notion of patriotic humanism posits the intellectual 
descent of Bruni from Dante’s exaltation of the vernacular. Yet even in the case of the 
exemplary Bruni, the Baronian thesis is not without contradictions. Thus, Bruni 
embraced Dante’s notion of ancient bilinguism to give the Florentine vernacular a 
classical pedigree, but “he limits the vernacular to poetic writing" (36). Later in 
Chapter Seven, we read that while “the controversy between the vernacular school and 
Latin humanism was resolved by Bruni” (88), he nonetheless “uses the vernacular 
sparingly, limiting it to trifling matters” (90). 

Having unfurled his gonfalone, Mazzocco proceeds to evaluate other humanists 
according to their sympathy or hostility to the “Florentine” cause. Chapter Four 
traces the origins of “Romance philology” in Flavio Biondo’s notion of that 
barbarian invasions destroyed Rome’s linguistic hegemony together with her 
political empire. Rather than associate this view with Valla’s celebrated prefaces to 
his Elegantiae, Mazzocco here derives it from Dante, although in Chapter Nine he 
shows the poet’s notions of linguistic mutability to be Babelic and theological. 

Chapter Five examines the subsequent role played in the “Florentine debate” by 
three notable humanists, all of whom sided with Biondo. In an epistle of 1449 to 
Leonello d’Este, Guarino of Verona relies on Isidore of Seville in tracing four stages 
in the development of ancient Latin. In his Disceptatio convivialis III of 1449-50, 
Poggio Bracciolini argues against the existence of two kinds of Latin by adducing 
passages from Quintilian which were to provoke Lorenzo Valla’s Apologus II, 
discussed in Mazzocco’s next chapter. In epistles of 1451 to Lorenzo de’ Medici, and 
of 1473 to Francesco Sforza, Francesco Filelfo follows his two predecessors in 
asserting the linguistic unity of ancient Latin, but formulates his own socio- 
linguistic theory which distinguishes between the litteratura of the educated classes 
and the Latinitas of the people. 

Chapter Six, “The Florentine Debate and the Unique Position of Lorenzo Valla,” 
attempts to isolate the Roman humanist through a polemical reading of his anti- 
Poggio invective Apologus II. Valla is dismissed as a malevolent scholar whose 
observations on classical Latin stem “not so much from a genuine interest in the 
linguistic state of antiquity, but from a need to vilify Poggio’s personal life and 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 331 


scholarship” (70). In a similar spirit, Mazzocco calls the insights in Valla’s 
Apologus II “downright sophistic and ludicrous” (77), and rules that the work “cannot 
be considered a fundamental contribution to the Florentine debate” (78). 

Chapter Seven turns to Leon Battista Alberti, who appears as a patriotic disciple 
of Dante and Bruni, and thus as a welcome antidote to Valla’s “anti-Florentine” 
invective. Mazzocco asserts that Leon Battista naturally shared the adulation accorded 
to Dante in the Paradiso degli Alberti, a late-Trecento text central to Baron’s patriotic 
thesis. Alberti’s works in fact offer little evidence for a pro-Florentine adoption of a 
Dante cult, and Mazzocco rounds out his chapter with a section on Cristoforo 
Landino, a more genuinely patriotic Florentine who was not averse to reworking 
Alberti’s image when it served his purposes. 

Chapter Eight addresses the question of Dante’s “noble vernacular,” and offers a 
useful review of Italian scholarly literature on the question. (To Mazzocco’s 
bibliography, one may now add Marianne Shapiro’s 1990 “De vulgari eloquentia” : 
Dante’s Books of Exile.) But in this trilingual context — an English discussion of a 
Latin discourse on Italian — Mazzocco’s argument is not always easy to follow. 
Many Latin terms are left untranslated, and the chapter offers numerous sentences like 
the following: “Italians lack a curialitas because they lack a curia, and they lack a 
curia because they lack a prince who renders the curia possible” (135). 

Chapter Nine examines Dante’s notions of Adamic language, and provides some 
useful review of linguistic theories of the Duecento, building on previous 
scholarship. As noted above, Mazzocco’s observations here underscore the vast 
distance between Dante’s theological views and the historicity of Quattrocento 
humanists like Biondo. 

Mazzocco’s three appendixes examine further issues related to his theme. 
Appendix One offers two pages on the distinction between “Latina lingua” and 
“grammatica,” and Appendix Two three pages on the dolce stil novo. By contrast, 
Appendix Three offers an extensive critique of Mirko Tavoni’s 1984 Latino, 
grammatica, volgare. While praising and borrowing Tavoni’s critical edition of the 
primary sources, Mazzocco finds his reading of them laden with misconceptions and 
misinterpretations. 

Mazzocco’s book is decidedly conservative in outlook, and often petulant in 
tone. It was apparently inspired by Hans Baron’s 1955 Crisis, and revised 
(reluctantly, it would seem) after the appearance of Tavoni’s detailed and documented 
study. Following Baron, Mazzocco draws up clear battle lines, according to which 
Dante, Bruni, and Alberti are praised as patriotic spokesmen for the Florentine 
vernacular. Outsiders do not fare so well. Excluded from the fold, both Valla and 
Tavoni are “downright sophistic” (77, 199) and fail to make any important 
contribution. In his 1990 Umanesimo e secolarizzazione, Riccardo Fubini provides a 
more balanced critique of Tavoni, which Mazzocco briefly cites (261n30) as a 
confirmation of his own views. In fact, Fubini’s objections to Tavoni stress two 
tendencies: the association of humanist views with the medieval grammatical 
tradition (including Dante), and the arbitrary division of the humanists into two 
warring camps. Thus, the humanist debate continues today, plagued by ideological 
polarities which obscure the truth. 

David Marsh, Rutgers University 


332 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Francesco di Matteo Castellani. Ricordanze: I: Ricordanze A (1436- 
1459). Ed. Giovanni Cappelli. Istituto Nazionale di Studi sul 
Rinascimento. Studi e Testi, n. XXVIII. Firenze: Olschki, 1992. Pp. 
213. 

La rivalutazione di testi medievali o rinascimentali fin qui dimenticati, trascurati, o 
rapidamente giudicati di poco interesse, continua con successo in Italia. Ricordanze, 
libri di conti, epistolari, memorie di viaggiatori costituiscono un intrecciarsi di 
testimonianze private che permettono di cogliere un quadro sempre pil! completo, una 
visione “‘a tutto tondo” della realta di un’epoca e di una societa. E, questo, l’aspetto 
filologico di un processo interdisciplinare che implica una collaborazione 
strettissima tra studiosi per raggiungere conclusioni nuove e finora magari 
impensate, con vantaggio delle singole discipline interessate. Gli studi storici pit 
recenti cercano infatti di operare su una visione delle vicende e degli individui del 
passato pit’ completa di quella tramandataci dalla tradizione degli ultimi secoli. 
Preoccupati di darci il resoconto delle vicende che interessavano 1’élite dominante, 
politica ed intellettuale, troppo spesso gli storici ci hanno lasciato all’oscuro sulla 
vita reale della maggioranza silenziosa che componeva la citta e la regione di cui si 
occupavano. La scuola degli Annales e gli studi di Fernand Braudel, di Emmanuel Le 
Roy Ladurie e di Frangoise Loux in Francia hanno trovato in Italia un ambiente 
preparatissimo. Basti pensare ai saggi di Piero Camporesi e di Carlo Ginzburg, basati 
su testi ormai dimenticati e tutti da riscoprire. 

E veniamo a queste Ricordanze, un manoscritto appunto di questo tipo: semidi- 
menticato e certamente rivalutabile. L’aveva utilizzato, all’inizio del secolo, lo 
storico Carlo Carnesecchi, ma solo per trarne, secondo la tendenza dell’epoca, poche 
“perle” aneddotiche per un paio di saggi. Si tratta, perd, di un lungo filmato 
quotidiano, protrattosi per una dozzina d’anni, fatto di piccole cose, di notazioni 
dall’apparenza banale, ma ricche di interesse per chi sa spingersi “oltre il velame” 
dell’ovvio. E Giovanni Campielli, il curatore di questa edizione, ci fornisce, 
nell’introduzione e nelle note, i mezzi per fare un po’ la storia delle “strutture del 
quotidiano” (per dirla con Braudel) di Francesco di Matteo Castellani. I Castellani, una 
tra le pit importanti famiglie della fine del Trecento fiorentino, sono gia noti per la 
loro partecipazione al “reggimento” della citta, per i vincoli matrimoniali che li 
legano ad altri potenti casati, per il patrimonio imponente di cui godono; un 
patrimonio, perd, che a quest’epoca gia da segni di frammentamento. Senza, tuttavia, 
entrare nei particolari biografici di Matteo Castellani e del figlio Francesco, 
minuziosamente ricostruiti da Campielli in una introduzione precisa e documentatis- 
sima, mi interessa qui sottolineare i particolari di questo “quotidiano” che vengono 
evidenziati nel dettato scamo e dall’apparenza banalissima di questo testo. Dettagli 
della vita personale e sessuale dello scrittore, la cui moglie, Ginevra, andatagli in 
sposa a tredici anni, muore a ventuno senza avergli dato figli, nonostante l’abbia 
mandata per un mese ai Bagni di Petriolo, rinomati per le loro capacita terapeutiche 
per la sterilita femminile. Questioni di dote, figli naturali dati a balia “fuor della porta 
a San Gallo”, secondo matrimonio, epidemia di peste e abbandono della citta per la 
frescura salubre di Incisa Valdarno, faide familiari per questioni d’interessi, divisioni 
di proprieta, nascite di figli legittimi (purtroppo senza avere per lunghi anni il tanto 
desiderato erede maschio!), problemi politici con il partito di Cosimo de’ Medici che 
costringeranno i Castellani al confino e alla perdita del diritto di accedere alle cariche 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 333 


pubbliche, multe pesanti e sequestri giudiziari. La vita di Francesco Castellani si 
chiude nel 1494, all’inizio della repubblica savonaroliana: sara tumulato nella 
cappella di famiglia in Santa Croce. 

Quando Castellani inizia a tenere questo libro, a vergare il testo di queste 
Ricordanze, ha poco pit di diciott’anni, e la storia economica della sua vita comincia 
proprio con un intervento da parte del Comune di Firenze per riscuotere delle tasse, 
perché questo libro di Ricordanze non é un diario vero e proprio, ma uno dei libri 
paralleli di contabilita che tenevano regolarmente i fiorentini pit’ abbienti. 

Oltre alle vicende personali della biografia di Francesco, mi piace sottolineare 
cid che a mio avviso rappresenta il particolare visuale, quello che neile riproduzioni 
moderne dei quadri dell’epoca ha l’onore di un ingrandimento che ne favorisce 
l’apprezzamento, soprattutto da parte dei non addetti ai lavori. Tra le spese per i 
tessuti e gli abiti trovo il suo “collare di perle infilate a matassa, con perle 
sessantaquattro di conto poste e pichate in s’una cordella doppia d’ariento” che presta 
al cognato, la sontuosa “cioppa” ricamata che Francesco commissiona a “maestro 
Giovanni Gilberti ricamatore” per Elena, la sua seconda moglie (“‘uno torio d’oro 
profilato di perle e fermo in certo mathonato lavorato d’oro, argento e seta, e 
aombrato come si richiede” con “brevi d’oro sul busto profilati di perle’’), anelli (“uno 
zaffiro grande in tavola a otto faccie, legato un gambo d’oro, ancora con smalti da 
lato, e uno smeraldo in tavola legato in gambo d’oro, ancora con smalti da lato”’), 
pellicce per l’inverno, una ricca spada “unghera” che la sua condizione gli permette di 
portare in citta, e infine le numerose cavalcature di cui si serve. E non mancano spese 
voluttuarie per l’alimentazione, come gli acquisti dallo speziale (oggi diremmo dal 
pasticciere): “confetti” per le donne che vengono a visitare la moglie incinta, un 
“pane di confetto grande” che manda alla moglie di un amico che ha appena dato alla 
luce una bambina. Nella contabilita, da mercante preciso, entrano anche le 
“‘limosine”, le candele che manda al convento di Santa Croce per |’anniversario della 
morte della prima moglie, e “la piatanza” (pane, vino e agnello) per la refezione dei 
frati. Scarsi, invece, i riferimenti e le notazioni culturali, limitate, almeno in questo 
quademo delle Ricordanze, a contatti con Andrea Alamanni, Benedetto Accolti, 
Giannozzo Manetti, Luigi Pulci, e Giovanni Rucellai, nonché all’acquisto di due 
volumi (un “Giustino e Svetonio” e un “Virgilio”) e alla restituzione di un Cicerone 
che gli aveva prestato Vespasiano da Bisticci. 

Lo stile, lo si @ detto, generalmente scarno, non lascia trapelare emozioni o 
entusiasmi, eccetto nell’occasione della nascita dell’erede a lungo atteso: é, forse, 
l’unico momento in cui il lettore riesce a cogliere il lato pi) umano e meno mercantile 
di Francesco di Matteo Castellani, ed @ un istante che mi piace ricordare: ““Ricordo che 
in nome dell’omnipotente Dio, nostro signore Iesu Christo, a di 12 di gennaio [1452] 
in venerdi, a ore xi 1/2, partori la Lena mia donna un figlio maschio, e per gratia di 
Dio resta sana e salva benissimo lei e ’] figlolo, che cosi gli piacia guardarci lungo 
tenpo, acrescendolo senpre nella sua gratia bon suo servo virtuoso e valente homo 
quanto sia nostro desiderio, secondo la sua volunta, per la pieta e misericordia sua, 
che sia sempre laudato e rengratiato in sempiterno, amen” (171). 

Un testo, come si vede, di un rilievo interdisciplinare e di una lettura interessan- 
tissima, per il quale, in attesa del secondo volume, non possiamo che ringraziare 
Giovanni Cappelli. 

Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


334 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Louise George Clubb and Robert Black. Romance and Aretine 
Humanism in Sienese Comedy, 1516: Pollastra's Parthenio at the 
Studio di Siena. Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 1993. 


In this volume, Louise George Clubb and Robert Black have collaborated to focus on 
the often neglected Italian contribution to the history of Renaissance drama. To this 
end, they have chosen to concentrate on the Aretine humanist and teacher, Giovanni 
Lappoli (b. 1465), known also as Pollio, Pollastrino or Pollastra, who spent a 
significant period of his life (1503-1515) in exile in Siena. Clubb contends that 
Pollastra’s Parthenio, a verse play in five acts, is “a major landmark in the history of 
romantic comedy” (15), and in Chapter 4 she presents her edition of the text. An 
edition of Pollastra’s Triumphi is offered by Black in the Appendix. 

In Chapter 1, “Siena, Crucible of Theatre,” Clubb discusses the currents that 
converged in Siena to create a favorable environment for the development of 
Renaissance drama. First, she notes the preeminent role of the city itself beginning 
with its devotion to spectacle and its “extraordinary ludic character” (12). The taste 
for the theater is found among its leading citizens, like Agostino Chigi and Claudio 
Tolomei, who served as patrons both at home and in Rome. Then there was the strong 
link between Siena’s theatrical interests and Medici patronage. For example, the 
Medici pope, Leo X, was known as a patron of Sienese theatrical performances and 
actors in Rome, and the presence of the celebrated pre-Rozzi playwright, Niccolo 
Campani, lo Strascino, in Leo’s entourage is documented (22). Clubb concurs with 
recent scholarship that the pre-Rozzi may not be the homogenous group of humble 
artisan-playwrights that Mazzi’s classification implies, and she supports the 
inclusion of non-Sienese, academic playwrights among their ranks. Italian theatrical 
scholars like Seragnoli and Alonge have expressed the need for more documentation 
about the pre-Rozzi period that began sometime before the first known editions of 
their works in 1511 and continued into the second decade of the Cinquecento. Clubb 
also cites possible ties between the pre-Rozzi theater and the plays of the Intronati 
academicians and non-Sienese dramatists outside of Siena (Ruzante, Trissino). She 
notes the close association between Arezzo and Siena as revealed, for example, in 
Pietro Aretino’s correspondence documenting his enduring friendship with Pollastra. 
In addition, Virginia, by the Aretine playwright Bernardo Accolti (known as 1’Unico 
Aretino) was performed in Siena in 1494, and Clubb will show in Chapter 3 how it 
served as a direct model for Parthenio . A detailed study of Parthenio, she contends, 
will help to clarify some of these associations and reveal the important influence of 
the Sienese theater of the pre-Rozzi period on subsequent developments in European 
romantic comedy. 

Parthenio is the only play by Pollastra to survive (16). It is known to have been 
performed by students at the University of Siena in 1516 and was first printed in 
Siena in 1520. It recounts the peregrinations of Parthenio in search of his father, lord 
of Asia. Along the way, he forgets his first wife, Galicella, who sets out to find him. 
She resorts to disguise as a male servant, then a handmaid before her true identity is 
revealed by a magic gem. Exotic locales, female disguise, and the intervention of 
fabulous devices like a sacred potion and a magic stone are characteristics reminiscent 
of medieval romance while the verse form of alternating ottava rima and terzine 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 335 


evokes some sacre rappresentazioni of the late Quattrocento, like Santa Uliva. Clubb 
explains Pollastra’s use of these obsolescent features by characterizing the play as 
deliberately old-fashioned. He was certainly aware of the developing fashion in the 
courts for avant-garde, neo-classical plays in prose, like Bibbiena’s Calandria and 
Machiavelli’s Mandragola. Nevertheless, he purposely sought to align his drama to a 
“cultural matrix defined by the municipal life of Siena in the the early Cinquecento, 
its university and humanistic academic circles, its popular theatre, and its relation to 
the Medici” (21). 

Robert Black succinctly recounts the origins and vicissitudes of the Lappoli 
family against the political and economic conditions of late medieval Arezzo in 
Chapter 2, “The Aretine Humanist in Siena.” The city, which had lost its 
independence to Florence in 1384, was a depressed area in the fifteenth century, like 
the rest of Florence’s subject territories (43). Nevertheless, it continued to thrive as 
an intellectual center with a rich classical and humanist tradition. The illustrious 
Aretine grammar school where Pollastra was educated eventually appointed him 
communal grammar master in 1500, but his involvement in the Aretine rebellion of 
1502 against Florence led to his exile to Siena in 1503. Black deftly untangles the 
intricate political maneuverings of the period to show how Pollastra was able to 
position himself advantageously in Siena, acquire new patrons (the Petrucci and the 
Medici), and continue his literary development. Parthenio is, according to Black, the 
“affirmation of all that Pollastra had lived and stood for in the years up to 1516” 
(140). 

In Chapter 3, “Romantic Comedy: Lineage, Structures, Contaminatio,” Clubb 
explores the multitude of literary works both learned and popular that served as 
sources for Parthenio. Among them are tales from the Decameron (for example, 10:8, 
10:5), neo-Latin school plays, Accolti’s Virginia, the works of the pre-Rozzi 
playwright, Mariano Trinci, i! Maniscalco, and sacre rappresentazioni. From the 
latter Pollastra adopted not only the rhyme scheme but also the convention of luoghi 
deputati and the episodic structure in order to “express his deliberate alliance with 
tradition, sacre rappresentazioni and popular pre-Rozzi forms, and with Medici 
memories” (153). And yet this deliberate evocation of the past is balanced by 
sophisticated dramatic technique and humanist didacticism. As Clubb successfully 
demonstrates, the varied contaminatio of learned and popular theater, medieval 
romance and humanist underpinnings in a Sienese context created a theatrical model 
that could be found in the Intronati plays dating from the 1530s, especially 
Gl’ ingannati, the comedy that was to become in tum the model for European comedy 
and Shakespeare (163-76). 

In conclusion, Louise George Clubb and Robert Black have made a valuable 
contribution to the study of the Renaissance theatre in Italy in this informative and 
thoroughly researched account of Pollastra and his Parthenio. 


Anne Tordi, The University of N. Carolina at Chapel Hill 


336 Annali d@’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Valeria Finucci. The Lady Vanishes: Subjectivity and 
Representation in Castiglione and Ariosto. Stanford: Stanford UP, 
1992. Pp. xiv + 332. 


Beautifully written and finely argued, The Lady Vanishes: Subjectivity and 
Representation in Castiglione and Ariosto boldly confronts the representation of 
women in two canonical texts of the Italian Renaissance, Baldassare Castiglione’s // 
cortegiano and Ludovico Ariosto’s Orlando furioso. In her introduction, Valeria 
Finucci sets the terms of her argument by examining the ways both Castiglione and 
Ariosto “construct and problematize feminine identities and occasionally male ones” 
at the same time that they nonetheless succeed in neutralizing sexual and gender 
differences by succumbing to the notion of a unified subjectivity, the representation 
of which is “needed by ideology” (4). While not wishing simply to cast irrevocable 
blame on the two authors for their gender bias, Finucci deftly shows how both authors 
are products of the historical moment in which they lived and that their opera cannot 
but be themselves enmeshed and governed by the dominant gender system to which 
they belong and adhere. This adherence, however, does not imply that the figures of 
women and men who are represented within these texts do not at moments contest, 
transcend, or question the very construction of gender roles that seeks to normalize 
all sexualities into a coherent orthodoxy of gender difference. 

Equally impressive is Finucci’s use of contemporary critical theory, which never 
threatens to close off her readings of the two works. Instead, Finucci’s interweaving 
of psychoanalytic, feminist and deconstructive theory enhances her readings by 
complicating the representations of women and men in their subjective complexities. 
At the same time, Finucci’s own theoretical position is clearly articulated. She argues 
that “just as there is no place for the individual outside of society, there is no place 
for the subject outside an Oedipal framework and a patriarchal organization of life, for 
entrance into language means entrance into the symbolic and into ideology. 
Psychoanalysis is an important tool for me, first because it stresses gender in the 
formation of one’s identity, and second because it enables me to focus on the 
repression, dispersion, and alienation of an individual’s psyche at the prec.se 
moment in which that individual’s subjectivity is being celebrated” (11). It is 
precisely this twin perspective that enables Finucci to read the representations of 
women within the texts in a way that never rests and is never content with easy 
answers. In so doing, we are also compelled not to rest comfortably within the 
ideological solution of a “psychoanalytic” moment for a given identity. Thoroughly 
Lacanian in her reading, Finucci is less interested in a fruitless determination over 
whether Castiglione and Ariosto are misogynistic per se than in exploring how the 
figures of women, their represented subjectivities, if you will, are recuperated by an 
ideology that determines Woman as that which stands on the other side of the perfect 
masculine ideal. Literature for Finucci is thus a dynamic locus of reflection on the 
ideological construction of gender. 

The Lady Vanishes is divided into two major parts. The first part contains three 
chapters dedicated to Castiglione’s /l cortegiano. In these chapters Finucci, with 
remarkable ease, carefully deconstructs the discursive ruses by which Castiglione is 
both able to allow a place for the court lady to exist within his opus at the same time 
that “she” is excluded from the world of thought. In other words, her role within the 


Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 337 


text is not one of agency, not one whose “I” can name its desire. Instead, she is made 
to bear the burden of incoherence and irrationality by inhabiting a marginal role 
whose function is to legitimate the gendering of discourse itself. She mimics, he 
discourses. Finucci’s astute Lacanian deconstruction of the figure and place of woman 
within Castiglione’s text elucidates how the ideological construction of woman 
functions to guarantee male identity as consistent with a discursive potency 
predicated on the necessary absence of women’s participation in discursive practices. 
As Finucci tells us, she thus becomes “fan enigma, an indecipherable text, unknown or 
not properly knowable” (42). In her chapter “Cutting and Sewing,” Finucci skillfully 
rehearses Freud’s well-known question, “What does woman want?,” interrogates the 
attendant misogynist metaphor of the veil, and questions what would happen if 
woman said no to that world. In “The Comic Bond,” the bond of course being the one 
between men, woman serves as its condition of possibility. Yet at the same time, she 
is constructed as a “non-subject,” a “non-being,” and in order to ensure she stays that 
way, the joker disparages her, makes her a sign of the ridiculous, the bodily, the 
excessive. As Finucci points out, the joker controls woman by disparagement and 
therefore he is able to control his own desire for her by lying to himself, by denying 
in himself the existence of an irrepressible force that impels him towards woman as 
what he both desires and fears. 

In the second part of the book, Finucci dedicates five chapters to Ariosto’s 
Orlando furioso. In the chapter on “The Narcissistic Woman,” the author shows how 
Angelica frustrates the codes of male desire by denying men access to her. As long as 
Angelica has the ring that keeps her invisible, the ring stands for her ability to 
remain aloof and indifferent to the advances of men. She is the narcissistic woman. 
Her self-sufficiency and ability to desire her own desire are threatening to the text and 
to the narrative closure Aristo’s text must perform if gender is to be surrendered to an 
ideological agenda. In fact, the ever-fleeing Angelica is “punished” by Ariosto and is 
made to fall in love with someone who is beneath her rank. This humiliation of the 
narcissistic woman is the price that is exacted from her so that, as Finucci brilliantly 
shows, Bradamante can take her place as the domesticated, ideal woman who gives up 
her own desire (her amazon-like qualities) in order to become the wife of Ruggiero and 
to found his dynasty. This exchange on the symbolic level is the price woman must 
pay if she is not to be humiliated and if she is to be given a role and status within the 
established world of men and society. This chapter is perhaps one of Finucci’s finest 
for her use of theory, in this case Freud and Sarah Kofman’s analysis of Freud’s 
narcissistic woman. At the same time, Finucci’s reading offers a powerful critique of 
that theory by demonstrating how a woman who knows how to take care of herself or 
to love herself is punished. In fact, all the chapters that follow are brilliantly crafted 
and argued to show how, for example, the figure of Olimpia contains both an active 
and a passive identity and that Olimpia’s desire must become corrected by her 
adherence to the Law of the Father, that is, by acknowledging the powerful paternal 
metaphor and the power that the phallus has if it is used as an object . In her chapter 
“(Dis)Orderly Death,” Finucci shows how Isabella is raised to the highest status of 
representing the virtuous woman. Almost raped by Rodomonte, Isabella is unable to 
endure the humiliation of his attempted crime, and like Lucretia purges herself of this 
dishonor by committing suicide. The virtue of woman is exacted at the moment of her 
death/suicide. She becomes emblematic of how, as Finucci states “self-erasure is the 


338 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


road that virtuous women often takes in narrative” (171). Finucci also carefully argues 
the motives for Rodomonte’s action and shows how he is able, through a violent act, 
to negate any positive feelings he may have for her. He thus attempts to punish 
Doralice for sexual profligacy through the body of Isabella . But Isabella’s position 
is a conflicted one: as a substitute for Doralice, she stands for impurity at the same 
time that it is her chaste nature that draws the rapist to her. In her chapter on 
“Transvestite Love,” Finucci argues that even if cross-dressing did have a temporary 
effect that could cancel out sexual differences as well as social ones, Ariosto’s 
representation of cross-dressing and masquerade in Canto 25 works to neutralize any 
possible subversive character that the actions of Fiordispina or Bradamante might 
have while simultaneously giving to Ricciardetto a space that is defined as separate 
from the female other, a distance that is paradoxically achieved through and because 
of cross-dressing. Particularly powerful in this chapter is the way Finucci moves 
through contemporary critical theories on the masquerade and on Lacan’s notion of 
the Phallus to show us how literature indeed symbolizes the very history of the 
masculine drive to disavow his lack and to project it onto the figure of woman. Her 
last chapter “The Warrior Woman,” appropriately ends with the figure of Bradamante, 
who becomes the icon of female domesticity as she who comes to embrace the 
production and nurturing of children. As such, she is aptly described by Finucci as the 
very embodiment of the “mother of the state” (253). No longer the woman warrior 
whose very presence in the text might have kept her on an equal footing with men, 
she is now reduced to representing man’s desire back to him be it in the form of his 
progeny, his history or his state of affairs. 

This wonderful book should have a long future, not only for readers of 
Castiglione and Ariosto, but for anyone interested in the new understanding of 
Renaissance literature and culture that comes from an appreciation of gender and 
psychoanalytical issues. 


Juliana Schiesari, University of California, Davis 


Danilo Zardin. Donna e religiosa di rara eccellenza. Prospera 
Corona Bascape, i libri e la cultura nei monasteri milanesi del 
Cinque e Seicento. Firenze: Leo S. Olschki. Biblioteca della Rivista 
di Storia e Letteratura Religiosa, Studi III. 1992. Pp. 280. 


Danilo Zardin’s monograph is a study of the writing of Suor Prospera Corona Bascapé 
(1550-1624), that is, of annotations she made on the pages of her catechism 
sometime in the very early seventeenth-century; but more than that it is a careful 
reconstruction of the religious and cultural program implemented in women’s 
religious communities in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Italy, and in particular 
in the Milan of the post Tridentine reforms of Carlo Borromeo. 

Zardin consulted many different sources of cultural information: diocesan and 
convent records, the literature written for the religious guidance of convent women, 
books known to have been in the possession of nuns, their dedications, indications 
of ownership and marginalia. He analyzes Prospera Bascapé’s notes in detail; he 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 339 


traces the publishing history of the catechism on which she wrote and explains how 
it could have ended up in the hands of that particular nun and why she would have 
chosen to write prayers, synopses of Biblical texts, episodes of religious history, 
and miscellaneous observations in its blank spaces. And he reads carefully her 
annotations, sometimes identifying precisely her source, other times suggesting 
possible sources, always careful to document the diffusion of these texts in Milan at 
the time. He discusses the function each text would seem to have had in the religious 
program of post Tridentine Milan, and he offers on this basis an interpretation of 
Prospera Bascapé’s reading of her sources. Zardin’s book, together with a recent 
essay of his entitled “Mercato librario e letture devote nella svolta del Cinquecento 
tridentino,” provides an impressive list of books written for the edification of nuns, 
their publishing history, and often, as well, their reception in convent circles.! 

Zardin’s vast erudition in this area of study, to which his copious, exhaustive 
notes attest, allows him both to present a case history, Prospera Bascapé’s story, and 
to provide the necessary context for the study of the culture of convent women in 
general in the period, and not only in Milan. Prospera Bascapé’s intellectual and 
artistic achievements were not unlike those of many other contemporary convent 
women of her social class. Her case, it seems to me, is not so exceptional as the title 
of this book suggests; what is more unusual is that it has come to light, that it has 
been examined diligently for all that it can tell us about the religious, intellectual, 
and artistic milieu in which she lived. 

Prospera Corona Bascapé belonged to an important Milanese family, though 
Zardin is unable to situate her precisely in her branch of that family. She was born in 
1550, and in 1554 she was sent to the convent of Santa Maria Maddalena del Cerchio 
for her education. She took the habit of the Humiliati order in 1564 (the nuns were 
called umiliate) and subsequently made her vows. According to Giovanni Pietro 
Puricelli, an erudite prelate of San Lorenzo Maggiore and her contemporary, who 
wrote his own notes on her catechism, she was a “donna e religiosa virtuosissima, et 
organista di rara et esquisita eccellenza” (58). It was not unusual for nuns, or for 
anyone at the time, to write on the book (or few books) they possessed the things 
they wanted to remember and for which they would be remembered by those who 
received the book after them; nor was what Prospera Bascapé wrote very unusual. She 
listed prayers, the ten commandments, guidelines for her spiritual improvement; she 
outlined the ages of man and of the world, and she compiled sketchy summaries of 
stories from Genesis; she also wanted to remember, or memorialize as convent 
chroniclers did, the stories (to a large extent mythical) of the founding of her order 
and of her convent, privileges accorded the nuns, an important conflict with 
authorities that was settled in favor of the nuns, a brief life in Latin of Carlo 
Borromeo; and finally, again in the manner of chroniclers of the period, she briefly 
described the appearances of two comets (1577 and 1618) and an occurrence of plague 
(1576). 

Zardin has read Suor Prospera’s few notes (scarcely seven pages in his edition, 


1 The full title of the article is “Mercato librario e letture devote nella svolta del Cinquecento 
tridentino. Note in margine ad un inventario milanese di libri di monache.” It appeared in Stampa, 
libri e letture a Milano nell’ eta di Carlo Borromeo, ed. N. Ramponi and A. Turchini, Milano: Vita e 
Pensiero, 1992: 135-246. 


340 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


published in an appendix) from nearly every imaginable point of view, including the 
linguistic: her text is a mixture of unsure Latin and the heavily Tuscanized vernacular, 
in which, as was typical of Milan in the period, there persisted elements of dialect. In 
at least one instance he also offers a gendered reading, noting that in her version of 
the founding of the Humiliati order, taken from Bernardino Corio’s Historia di 
Milano, she adds mention of nuns together with the friars, whereas her source had left 
women out of the picture entirely (159). And there is another passage which, it seems 
to me, could also be illuminated by keeping in mind the gender of the author. In her 
sketchy notes on the Bible, Suor Prospera places a certain emphasis on the female 
figures. She regularly accounts for the wives of the descendants of Adam and Eve: her 
mention of Cain includes Calmana as well. And, alongside the male inventors of 
music (Jubal), of shepherding (Iabel), of metal sculpture (Tubalcaim), she includes a 
woman, Noema, inventor of the art of spinning and weaving wool and linen and 
making cloth for clothing, before which, Suor Prospera claims, people had wom 
animal skins (255). But most interestingly significant in its oddity, she included, at 
the end of her notes on biblical history, the following paragraph on the Amazons: 
‘“‘Martesia e Lampadonia regine dele Amazzone, una dela guera, |’altra dela republica. 
Combateno e non volevano marito, e neli ani 7 li taliavano la mamela dextera per 
esser pill ate a trar le saete et combatere a certi tempi. Usavano con omini secondo si 
trovavano a combatere, e se facevano fili maschi li rimandavano a soi padri, et se 
femine li levavano al combatere con esse.”” A plausible explanation for this reference, 
barring a similar juxtaposition in a source that has not come to light (Zardin was able 
to identify the sources followed for other passages but not for this one), is that Suor 
Prospera was interested in preserving the memory of women, especially women who 
had made a contribution to history, and, in this case, women who lived in largely 
self-sufficient, exclusively female communities and who associated with men only 
when obliged. The analogy to her own situation as a member of a religious female 
community is too close to be coincidental, and Zardin points out that the Counter 
Reformation indeed used the Amazons as images of chastity, referring to a nun as 
“Christ’s Amazon” or “sacred Amazon”: “amazone di Cristo,” “amazone sagra” (196). 

Zardin’s study begins with the climate of post Tridentine reforms in Milan, and 
he carefully tells the story of the difficult imposition of certain of them, especially 
enclosure, in the female convents of the Milanese diocese. He discusses the 
protagonists of the moment and their methods, especially the devotional literature 
and practices they promulgated. To characterize Prospera Corona Bascapé, her 
convent, and convent sisters he looks at the surviving convent records, principally 
those of controversies in which the authorities intervened and on which they 
reported. Finally, among the most valuable contributions of this study are Zardin’s 
careful analyses of the documents in the interest of reconstructing the reading — 
reading matter and method — both as proposed to religious women by the authorities 
and as actually received, interpreted and used, by religious women of the time. 

In this monograph and also in the article “Mercato librario e letture devote,” 
Zardin laments that in the studies of female religious communities, even those 
recently undertaken, most scholars have concentrated their attention on the 
exceptional figures and episodes without providing sufficient religious and social 
historical context for a proper understanding and evaluation of those characters and 
events (“Mercato librario e letture devote” 136). Zardin’s work certainly contributes 


Annali d@’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 341 


such a context. It must be noted, however, and Zardin’s work makes it clear that, 
while it is often not the case, a few other scholars have provided a similarly 
instructive context in their work in this area, most notably Gabriella Zarri, whose 
name appears in his footnotes so often that it is evident that her work provides the 
model and point of departure for any study in the field.2 With Zardin’s important 
contributions and the recent work of Lucia Sebastiani, Renée Baernstein, and Robert 
Kendrick, along with the general context, the missing feminine element begins to 
appear in contemporary accounts of the history and culture of Milan and Lombardy in 
the age of the Borromeos.? 


Elissa B. Weaver, University of Chicago 


Tomaso Garzoni. Opere. Ed. Paolo Cherchi. Ravenna: Longo, 1993. 


Paolo Cherchi’s new edition of a representative selection of Tomaso Garzoni’s works 
is a precious step towards making this important “minor” author more familiar to 
scholars and illuminating a significant chapter of cultural history. Garzoni’s Opere 
contains the complete texts of JI teatro dei vari e diversi cervelli mondani (1583), 
L’ospidale de’ pazzi incurabili (1586), La sinagoga degli ignoranti (1589), Il 
mirabile cornucopia consolatorio (1601, but written around 1588-89), as well as 
excerpts from his best-known work, the mammoth La piazza universale di tutte le 
professioni del mondo (1585; of which an unabridged edition, edited by Cherchi and 
Beatrice Collina, will soon be out. Although this Opere re-presents the same 
selection published in Cherchi’s out-of-print 1972 edition, the new introductory 
essay treats not only the moral and ideological aspects of Garzoni’s encyclopedic 
vision (the main focus of the earlier introduction), but also his place in literary 
tradition. Cherchi has also expanded his excellent notes, dedicated primarily to 
illucidating the astounding number of sources that Garzoni “borrowed” from. 

Garzoni was born in 1549 near Ravenna, and at a young age became a canon 


2 Zarri’s essay “Monasteri femminili e citta (secoli XV-XVID),” published in Storia d'Italia. Annali 
9: La Chiesa e il potere politico dal medioevo all’ eta contemporanea, ed. G. Chittolini and G. 
Miccoli, Torino, Einaudi, 1986: 357-429, is cited frequently by Zardin, and it has indeed become a 
classic in the study of women religious in Early Modem Italy. Also frequently cited and closely 
related to Zardin’s enterprise are Zarri’s collection of essays, Le sante vive. Cultura e religiosita 
femminile nella prima eta moderna, Torino, Rosenberg & Sellier, 1990, and especially “La vita 
religiosa femminile tra devozione e chiostro: testi devoti in volgare editi tra il 1475 e il 1520,” 
published in Libri, idee e sentimenti religiosi nel Cinquecento italiano, Ferrara-Modena: Panini, 
1987: 131-54, and now reprinted in Le sante vive 21-50. 

Lucia Sebastiani, “Monasteri femminili milanesi tra medioevo ed eta modema,” in Florence and 
Milan: Comparisons and Relations. Acts of two Conferences at Villa I Tatti in 1982-1984, ed. C. H. 
Smyth and G. C. Garfagnini, II, Firenze: La Nuova Italia Editrice, 1989: 3-15; Robert Kendrick, 
“The Traditions of Milanese Convent Music and the Sacred Dialogues of Chiara Margarita 
Cozzolani,” The Crannied Wall, ed. Craig Monson, Ann Arbor: U of Michigan P, 1992: 211-33. 
Both Kendrick and Renée Baernstein have written dissertations on Milanese convents, his in the 
Music Department of NYU, hers in History at Harvard. 


342 Annali @’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


regular of the Lateran Congregation. His career coincided with what Cherchi calls a 
“Second Humanism,” during which many of the erudite humanistic genres, such as the 
encyclopedia or the theatrum, were reproposed “sotto una veste volgare” (19). 
Moreover, the dramatic growth of the printing industry had created an avid readership 
that was “ghiotto di novita e di curiosita anche spicciole” (19), and Garzoni, with his 
carefully mixed encyclopedic minestroni of anthropological vignettes alongside 
“grappoli di aneddoti, catene di citazioni, o cataloghi di personaggi illustri” (14) was 
an expert reader of the “horizon of expectations” of his public. 

The proliferation of encyclopedic works in the sixteenth and seventeenth 
centuries expressed the urge to decipher the world through an exhaustive cataloging 
of its contents and, above all, to organize these potentially chaotic contents. The 
persistent quest for — and faith in — a world that could be described occurred in a 
period of socio-economic upheavals and undoing of humanistic ideals, and may be 
considered a compensatory attempt to impose a symbolic order on a reality threatened 
on all sides by disorder. The encyclopedic genre embodies in a particularly 
appropriate way this tension, for it contains within itself the paradoxical intention 
to classify within finite limits a mass of material that is, in fact, infinite and, 
thereby, never totally classifiable. 

Il teatro dei vari e diversi cervelli mondani, which divides temperaments into 
cervelli, cervellini, cervelluzzi, cervelletti, cervelloni and cervellazzi, is a typical 
example of Garzoni’s technique of “rewriting” the theatrum genre, as well as a timely 
contribution to the European debate on ingenium. Garzoni pieces together materials 
culled, for the most part, from “i vasti repertori in cui si raccolgono i frutti della 
grande archeologia umanistica” into a cento or “mosaic” to which he contributes the 
organization and the “seams” that hold them together (17-18). But, as Cherchi 
emphasizes, Garzoni’s literary efforts are not spent only in shows of erudition and 
moral proselytizing; he also exploits his substantial talents as a comic writer in the 
vein of Lando, Doni and Folengo. Hyperbole, grotesque caricature and 
representations of social outcasts (vagabonds, prostitutes) and the extremes of 
humanity (gluttons, braggarts) share the “spessa coltre erudita che copre ogni sua 
pagina” (15) with the most respectable of ancient and modem authorities. But 
perhaps these bedfellows are not so improbable. With a strategy that he will use 
again and again in his search for material that will appeal to the vastest possible 
public, Garzoni appropriates the style and themes of the anticanonical tradition only 
to distance himself from its vision of the paradoxical, “open” nature of reality. 

L' ospidale de’ pazzi incurabili and La sinagoga degli ignoranti, two subsequent 
phases of Garzoni’s project “inteso a debellare il vizio e 1’ignoranza” (375), use this 
same cento technique and treat other “hot” Renaissance topics: madness and 
ignorance. But we are far from the Erasmian notion of folly as an alternative way of 
knowing. In Garzoni’s eyes, madness in any form, and indeed “ogni forma di sapere 
deviante dalle dottrine ufficiali” (10), is suspect, and in both of these treatises he 
attempts to ridicule, and domesticate, his subject matter. // mirabile cornucopia 
consolatorio, a work under twenty pages, veers away, formally and thenatically, from 
the other works in this collection. It is a paradoxical “encomium comuum” in the 
form of a letter whose intent is to “provare la nobilta e grandezza del nome di 
cormnuto” (529) through a catalog of historic examples. 

But it is La piazza universale di tutte le professioni del mondo, a “European best- 


Annali d'italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 343 


seller” with its 25 editions from 1585 to 1675, that best exemplifies the issues at the 
heart of Garzoni’s encyclopedic enterprise. Nearly 1000 pages are filled with 
descriptions of an exhaustive range of trades and professions, historical examples 
and moral disquisitions on “good” and “bad” practioners. One of my only criticisms 
of this excellent volume regards the fact that most of the discorsi that Cherchi 
includes are of the “picturesque” variety — e.g., “De’ tintori,” “De’ cuochi,” “De’ 
camefici e boi’ —- whereas those (some of which are cited below) that, in my 
opinion, are crucial for understanding the ideological supports of La piazza, are 
absent. Although Cherchi notes that La piazza seems to lack taxonomical criteria in 
its organization, the professori against whom Garzoni directs his most virulent 
tirades — among whom we find middlemen, marriage brokers, ruffiani and other 
assorted swindlers, as well as merchants themselves — all base their trades on 
fraudulent exchange. But the inganno inherent in artistic discourse, the radical 
metaphorization that challenges the conventional similitudes linking the objects of 
the world and rendering them readable, is Garzoni’s ultimate target. The mascherari, 
for example, have an “insatiabile desio di ingannarci ognora, e farci con la maschera 
di una belta apparente parer le cose sue e belle,” and later in La piazza the author sums 
up: “tutta l’arte non é altro che fallacia e inganno” (645 and 888 of the 1587 Somasco 
edition). 

So what, a potential reader might ask, is the attraction of these voluminous 
works of an often obtusely moralistic slant dictated by what Cherchi calls Garzoni’s 
“libridinous” abuse of other authors and his “bibliobulimic” love for catalogs that 
expand to dizzying dimensions? First of all, reading these works is often extremely 
enjoyable, precisely because their author is so eclectic and unpredictable in his 
literary approach. And although his “mosaic” technique may seem heavy-handed to 
the modern reader, there is something about it that reminds us of the astute re- 
arrangements of and subtle winking at texts of the past that today’s culture, both 
“high” and “popular,” so often implements. (There is, moreover, a fundamental irony 
regarding Garzoni’s literary pilfering: his emphatic condemnation of fraudulent 
exchange is enacted in works that are themselves blatant examples of devious 
negotiation with tradition.) Secondly, Garzoni’s works are treasurehouses of 
“anthropological” information on human types and socio-cultural practices. Finally, 
and most importantly, these texts embody the anxieties of an intellectual who lived 
at a time of radical change (the end of an epistemological era, to cite Foucault). But far 
from embracing the variety and dynamism of human and commercial interplay, or 
accepting the possibility that illusionistic games and paradox are at the heart of the 
cultural enterprise, Garzoni’s strategy in confronting a world in flux is to hang on, 
desperately, to the ideal of the representability of this world and to force its 
multiplicity into a rigid script. We might, ultimately, consider his works, all of 
which employ an organizing metaphor of architectural space, as vast, crowded 
prisons whose doors are open but whose inhabitants acquiesce willingly to the strict 
order that prevails within, from fear of what lies outside. 


Nancy L. Canepa, Dartmouth College 


344 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Stelio Cro. Such Stuff as Dreams are Made On: Pirandello and the 
Baroque. Hamilton: The Symposium Press, 1993. Pp.136. 


With the publication of Lionel Abel’s Metatheatre (1953) many scholars have tumed 
their attention to two conceptual tenets that since then have exerted a great influence 
on Shakespearean studies as well as studies conducted on the Spanish comedia: The 
world is a stage; life is a dream. 

Stelio Cro, influenced and continuing this trend of thought, now proposes a 
comprehensive perspective of the “Pirandellian” dimension by presenting an organic 
vision of Pirandello’s possible sources of inspiration which in Cro’s opinion are to 
be found in Baroque models. Using a comparative approach, the author stresses the 
dimension of Pirandello as a dramatist by focusing on the well-known artistic device 
of “the play within a play” in Shakespeare’s Hamlet and, conversely, how this very 
same structure also serves the same artistic function in Cervantes and Calderén de la 
Barca. 

In his introduction, Cro discusses the main characteristics of the Baroque and the 
authors whom Pirandello has studied, quoted, and used as inspiration for his plays. In 
succeeding chapters, he studies in detail the works in which Pirandello has revealed 
his knowledge of the Baroque. Cro, like others before him who were influenced by 
Abel’s work, conceives the Baroque not only as a literary movement, but as a new 
way of perceiving reality, a world view. The roots of this world view, argues Cro, are 
to be found in the use of dramatic topoi in Shakespeare, Cervantes, and Calder6én, but 
which are also present in Pirandello’s theatrical character and the somewhat 
“marionette-like quality” of his theatre. Cro identifies these topoi as the interaction 
of illusion/reality present in ‘the play within the play,” the interaction of 
character/author as revealed by the concept of the “world as a stage,” and finally in 
what he mentions later in his work: that a play, in the Baroque’s view, is both“. . . 
structurally and thematically a mirror of the larger play which, in turn, is a mirror of 
life” (55-56). 

Starting with the second chapter, Cro traces the aforementioned topoi: “the play 
within the play,” “the world as a stage,” and the dualism “stage-life-form-life,” 
typical of Pirandello’s theater, first in Shakespeare’s Hamlet, where in scene II of Act 
If Hamlet dramatizes the search for truth by willingly participating in a play within a 
play, or, as in the language of the Spanish comediantes, “play-acting,” “haciendo 
comedia.” Next, Cro examines Cervantes’ Don Quijote II, where he finds a perfect 
example of the “play within the play,” and “the world as a stage,” in the story of the 
Retablo de Maese Pedro, the “puppet show.” The author also points out two other 
works by Cervantes, which show signs of artistically trascending the narrow 
chronological parameters of the Baroque: The Licenciado Vidriera and the one act play 
the Retablo de las maravillas. Finaly, the author explores the theatre of Calderén, 
particularly his play La vida es suefio, in relation with themes and ideas that are also 
pervasive in such works by Pirandello as Sei personaggi, Enrico IV, and the 
unfinished play-myth J] giganti della montagna, among others. Unfortunately, the 
author does not include in his discussion on Calderén and Pirandello, with the 
exception on the auto sacramental El gran teatro del mundo, other significant and 
perhaps structurally better plays such as the El medico de su honra, El pintor de su 
deshonra, and finally, A secreto agravio, secreta venganza, where all three topoi are 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 345 


found and in which one other significant concept easily found in the Spanish comedia 
and perhaps relevant to Cro’s study could have been included: the art of “fingir,” for 
to feign is exactly and in many instances to participate in “a play within a play,” to 
“play-act,” “hacer comedia,” whether it is our own script or not, as we search for a 
more effective role whether within a play or in life. 

In his conclusion, Cro argues that his comparative approach clearly shows that 
Pirandello’s sources of inspiration for his dramatic production are to be found in 
Baroque models. The topoi of “the world as a stage,” “il sogno é vita,” are present in 
the Baroque as well as in Pirandello’s works. Moreover, he successfully shows this 
relationship and ascertains the nature of the Baroque theatre and Pirandello’s debt to 
it. Finally, Cro reaches a very significant conclusion in his work which I find to be 
central to the study of the Baroque theatre; that is, a play is a self-referential device, 
an artifact, by which as a work of art it justifies itself by reminding us, as an imago 
veritatis, the image of truth a play is, that we are all characters in the world’s stage. 


José Escobar, College of Charleston 


Mark Lilla. G. B. Vico: The Making of an Anti-Modern. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1993. Pp. xv, 255. 


In our times, after the Holocaust and the Gulag, we are anxious to detect the reason 
why European history went astray. Some put the blame on the Romantic Movement 
that rejected the rational values of the Enlightenment and replaced them with 
irrational myths that eventually paved the way for Mussolini and Hitler. Others 
preferred to indict the Enlightenment, a movement that allegedly upheld abstract 
rationalism and caused the excesses of the French Revolution as well as the upheavals 
of the twentieth-century. While the first attacked the German and Italian historical 
school, an offshoot of Romantic philosophy, the second defended the heritage of 
such a school by showing that rational values were the object of sustained criticism 
by the eighteenth-century forerunners of the Romantic Movement. This was the 
position of scholars such as Benedetto Croce, Friedrich Meinecke and Carlo Antoni, 
whose writings influenced Sir Isaiah Berlin. One can doubt whether it is really 
necessary to blame the mistakes of the twentieth-century either on the Enlightenment 
or the Romantic Movement. After all, it is highly probable that both of them 
contributed to modern degenerations. 

It is against this background that Berlin’s concept of the so-called Counter- 
Enlightenment must be understood. According to Berlin, the Counter-Enlightenment 
was the rebellion against the rationalism of the Enlightenment (in Antoni’s terms, 
the lotta contro la ragione or struggle against reason) which developed during the 
eighteenth-century. The first rebel against the abstract reason of the Enlightenment 
was Vico who, because of this, was accorded privileged status by Berlin. Now Mark 
Lilla, having pursued a research along the lines traced by Berlin, informs us that 
Berlin’s interpretation of Vico as the first thinker who challenged the 
Enlightenment, a monistic ideology, in the name of a new pluralism, needs radical 
revision: “The present study of Vico’s thought was originally conceived as the first 


346 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


installment of a more extensive investigation into the political philosophy of the 
Counter-Enlightenment, and especially into its pluralism. . . . The Vico who emerges 
from its pages may indeed have fathered the Counter-Enlightenment, but he is hardly 
a pluralist” (6). Lilla takes issue with those interpreters who emphasized the 
subversive content of the New Science. Lilla appears to be more sympathetic with the 
Catholic interpreters. Like these, he considers the Universal Law the metaphysical 
foundation of the New Science and maintains that Vico’s science is subservient to 
religion: “His science of history was invented to help constrain, rather than expand 
further, the human horizon opened by the modern age. And that science was, above 
all, meant to serve religion and to stem the tide of decadence that swept in behind 
modern philosophy” (232). 

Lilla’s position is very similar to the Catholic one, which is well exemplified by 
Ada Lamacchia’s “Metafisica e nuova scienza nell’opera di Giambattista Vico,” in F. 
Botturi, U. Galeazzi, A. Lamacchia, F. Marcolungo and P. Porro, Metafisica e 
teologia civile in Giambattista Vico, ed. A. Lamacchia, Bari: Levante Editori, 1992, 
pp. 11-79. Like Lamacchia, Lilla seems to be unaware of the strong metaphysical 
bent of such scientists as Boyle and Newton, which means that Vico (contrary to 
Lamacchia’s and Lilla’s opinion) was encouraged by the example of the Royal 
Society to view science and Christianity not as conflicting but as convergent terms. 
Like Lamacchia, Lilla overlooks that sympathy between Anglican and Catholic 
scientists that was pointed out by Vincenzo Ferrone in an important book, rich in 
precious insights into the early eighteenth-century Italian culture, the background of 
Vichian philosophy (see my review of Ferrone’s volume in Archives Internationales 
d'Histoire des Sciences, 35 [1985]: 450-52). Moreover, Vico dabbled in Medicine and 
Pharmacology, two scientific fields that, in his times, were still linked to Paracelsian 
theories (see my “Vico e |’alchimia,” in L’Europa nel XVIII secolo: studi in onore di 
Paolo Alatri, I, Napoli: Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane, 1991, pp. 19-41). Alchemic 
sources left a strong metaphysical imprint on Vichian thought. 

According to Lilla, an “important part of Vico’s legacy to the nineteenth and 
twentieth century is his discovery that a modern social science can serve anti-modern 
political and religious ends" (234). Vico realized that “a science of man as a 
subrational creature could be an effective tool for silencing what little reason man 
has” (234). On this basis, Lilla ends his book by posing the problem of what he 
views as Vico’s role in Western political thought: “What still deserves explanation is 
how Vico’s scientific conquest of reason could, in the centuries that followed, be 
construed as a victory for human freedom” (234). Here Lilla, a specialist in Political 
Science, unwittingly shows the way that leads to Fascist interpretations of Vico that 
one would prefer to forget, such as Walter Witzenmann’s Politischer Aktivismus und 
sozialer Mythos: Giambattista Vico und die Lehre des Faschismus, Berlin: Junker und 
Diinnhaupt Verlag, 1935 and Nino Tripodi’s J! pensiero politico di Vico e la dottrina 
del Fascismo, Varese: Tipografica Varese, 1941. We believe that Lilla would be 
dissuated from pursuing further research in the same direction if he were to meditate on 
Tripodi’s book, which appeared in the “Collana di ‘dottrina fascista,’” published 
under the aegis of the “Scuola di mistica fascista.” Tripodi’s Vico, viewed through the 
prisma of Catholic interpreters, obtains the embarrassing honor of being elevated to 
the rang of Mussolini’s forerunners. 

Lilla’s plea for a conservative Vico is carried through an “Introduction” (1-13) 


Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 347 


and five chapters: 1. “Things Human and Divine” (14-56); 2. “Against the Skeptics” 
(57-103); 3. “The Turn to Science” (104-51); 4. “An Ideal History of the Eternal City” 
(152-203); 5. “Decadence Ancient and Modem” (204-34). The book under review 
contains a “Bibliographical Note” (237-49), in which Lilla declares that his work 
“was conceived as an investigation into Vico’s overriding philosophical aims” 
(237). One is left with the feeling that Lilla’s overarching concerns are responsible 
for his neglect of meaningful details. 


Gustavo Costa, University of California, Berkeley 


AA. VV. Vico in Italia e in Germania. Letture e prospettive. Atti del 
Convegno Internazionale Napoli, 1-3 marzo 1990. A c. di G. 
Cacciatore e G. Cantillo. Napoli, Bibliopolis, 1993. 


Il volume raccoglie una serie di contributi che cercano di ricostruire i percorsi della 
ricezione dell’opera di Vico in Germania e testimoniano un rinnovato interesse per la 
filosofia vichiana nell’ambito della ricerca internazionale degli ultimi anni, 
evidenziando in particolare una sempre maggiore circolazione degli studi vichiani tra 
Italia e Germania. Un evento significativo nella Wirkungsgeschichte vichiana in 
Germania é i] recente compimento della traduzione tedesca integrale della Scienza 
nuova (Prinzipien einer neuen Wissenschaft iiber die gemeinsame Natur der Volker, 
Hamburg, 1990) a cura di Vittorio Hésle e Christoph Jermann. Questo evento si 
inscrive nel quadro di una sempre pil incisiva presenza del pensiero vichiano nella 
cultura tedesca che viene documentata e analizzata nell’ampia relazione introduttiva di 
Giuseppe Cacciatore e Giuseppe Cantillo sugli Studi vichiani in Germania 1980- 
1990. Una tematica che attraversa tutti i contributi analizzati in questa relazione é 
quella della topica e della retorica come modello di pensiero distinto da quello 
scientifico-tecnico, e qui il testo di riferimento rimane Macht des Bildes (1970) di 
Emesto Grassi, recentemente tradotto in italiano (E. Grassi, Potenza dell’ immagine. 
Rivalutazione della retorica, Milano, 1989). 

Grassi a pil riprese ha sottolineato come la tradizione filosofica umanistica che 
si afferma in Italia dalla seconda meta del tredicesimo secolo fino alla fine del 
quindicesimo escluda ogni tipo di formalismo e di formalizzazione del linguaggio. 
Secondo quella tradizione, gli elementi fondamentali che conducono alla formazione 
del mondo umano sono il lavoro e la fantasia. Nell’ordine del discorso é il linguaggio 
figurativo e metaforico che viene cosi a giocare un ruolo determinante: é questo il 
linguaggio della poesia e, in particolare, della retorica che viene cosi ad assumere una 
vera e propria importanza filosofica, realizzando un nuovo modello di pensiero che si 
contrappone al rigorismo logico. La filosofia di Vico per Grassi appartiene a questa 
tradizione umanista e non puod quindi essere inserita nell’ambito di una problematica 
idealistica e hegeliana. 

Tra i nuovi contributi agli studi vichiani in Germania si segnala il ruolo 
egemonico svolto da due studiosi come Ferdinand Fellmann e Stephan Otto. Ferdinand 
Fellmann, che tra l’altro ha curato un’antologia della Scienza nuova (Neue 
Wissenschaft, Frankfurt, 1981), sottolinea soprattutto la centralita della vichiana 


348 Annali @’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


considerazione filosofica della storia che nelle intenzioni del filosofo napoletano 
punta alla configurazione dei nessi tra teoria e agire sociale. I] senso comune nella 
Scienza nuova non nasce dalle discussioni oratorie esercitate nel foro o nella societa 
civile, ma dagli universali fantastici elaborati dalla mente primitiva: sono queste 
creazioni della fantasia umana che per Fellmann sono da considerare una vera e 
propria fondazione di una “ragione pratica”. Si tratta di rappresentazioni che in 
qualche modo orientano l’azione in assenza di ogni schematismo razionalistico di 
tipo aristotelico e senza assimilarsi risolutamente ad una riflessione filosofica di 
carattere trascendentale. Gli universali fantastici e i miti si pongono insomma come 
contributi alla creazione delle norme che regolano la vita comunitaria e le istituzioni 
umane (F.Fellmann, Vico und die Macht der Anfdnge, in G. B. Vico, Neue, 
Wissenschaft, Auswahl, Ubersetzung und Einleitung von F. Fellman, Frankfurt a.M., 
1981). 

D’altro canto, in contrasto con questa impostazione che evidenzia la vichiana 
trasformazione filosofico-storica dell’ontologia, si segnala l’interpretazione di 
Stephan Otto che riconduce Vico nell’ambito del costruttivismo trascendentale. I] 
discorso di Otto punta alla chiarificazione delle intenzioni metodologiche e 
filosofiche del pensiero vichiano. Tra i suoi recenti studi sono da ricordare 
Imagination und Geometrie. Die Idee kreativer Synthesis. Giambattista Vico 
zwischen Leibniz und Kant (in “Archiv fiir Geschichte der Philosophie” 53, 1981) e 
un saggio pubblicato nell’ambito di una ricerca di gruppo sul vichiano Liber 
metaphysicus (S. Otto, Umrisse einer  transzendentalphilosophischen 
Rekonstruktion der Philosophie Vicos anhand des Liber Metaphysicus, in AA. VV., 
Sachkommentar zu Giambattista Vicos ‘Liber metaphysicus”, Miinchen, 1985). 

La rassegna di Cacciatore e Cantillo mette poi in luce l’esistenza di una terza via 
negli studi vichiani in Germania che si colloca tra l’interpretazione che privilegia 
l’inserimento di Vico nella tradizione umanistica e storicistico-ermeneutica e quella di 
chi intende sviluppare i contenuti sistematico-filosofici della vichiana Scienza 
nuova. Questa “terza via” appare rappresentata da Richard Wilhelm Schmidt, con il 
suo Die Geschichtphilosophie G. B. Vicos. Mit einem Anhang zu Hegel (Wiirzburg, 
1982) che studia la formazione in Vico di una consapevolezza della crisi del sapere 
moderno e degli aspetti fecondi della scepsi della scienza. 

Alla ricca e documentata ricognizione storico-analitica degli studi pit 
interessanti e originali del pensiero vichiano in Germania ad opera di Cacciatore e 
Cantillo, fanno seguito gli interventi diretti di alcuni protagonisti del dibattito 
tedesco tra cui si segnalano ancora Stephan Otto, Un assioma (Grund-satz) della 
«Scienza nuova» come principio guida (Leitsatz) per la “critica della ragione storica’” ; 
Emesto Grassi, Vico e Ovidio: il problema della preminenza della metafora; e 
Ferdinand Fellmann, Vico e Kant sul cammino della ragione storica. Il saggio di Otto 
sottolinea come nella vichiana Scienza nuova si possano trovare una serie di 
principi-guida per la costruzione del profilo teorico che manca alla critica della 
ragione storica elaborata da Dilthey. Otto studia in questo senso l’uso vichiano del 
concetto modale di “possibilita” come elemento che consente di pensare la possibile 
connessione tra mondo metafisico e mondo storico. Una nuova critica della ragione 
storica deve partire proprio da questo principio teorico di grado superiore che sappia 
creare una “mediazione tra i diversi principi teorici della critica della ragione storica e 
sia ad essi adeguato” (116-117). 


Annali d@’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 349 


Il saggio di Ernesto Grassi studia il rapporto teorico di Vico con il pensiero di 
Ovidio che tradizionalmente viene visto come poeta, non come filosofo. Poesia e 
filosofia per Grassi hanno un comune fondamento metaforico che allude alla 
molteplicita dei significati dei fenomeni e appare diretta espressione delle passioni 
umane. La metafora di cui ci parla Vico va inserita nell’ambito di una dimensione 
arcaica, anteriore alla determinazione del linguaggio razionale e in contrasto con la 
metafisica tradizionale ontologica che non pud ammettere il traslato di significati. 

Il saggio di Fellmann stabilisce invece un originale accostamento di Vico e Kant 
nella genealogia della ragione storica, poiché la divergenza tra il vichiano metodo 
genetico e il kantiano metodo critico non esclude per Fellmann che in Kant si 
possano trovare prospettive collegabili all’impostazione antropologica e storica 
data da Vico alla sua Scienza nuova. L’originaria intuizione vichiana viene indicata 
proprio nella trasformazione antropologica della metafisica che da origine ad una 
filosofia della storia paga della conservazione del genere umano e chiusa nel cerchio 
ripetitivo dei corsi e ricorsi. L’apertura verso il futuro e verso un’idea di progresso si 
trova invece nel breve scritto kantiano intitolato Congetture sull'origine della storia, 
dove il filosofo tedesco pone il fondamento antropologico del suo concetto dinamico 
di ragione. La funzione della fantasia nel processo della conoscenza storica viene cosi 
riconosciuta sia da Vico che da Kant; ma mentre per il primo la fantasia produce 
immagini che hanno effetti stabilizzanti sui comportamenti umani e che non trovano 
un sostanziale progresso nella ragione, il secondo vede invece nella fantasia un 
elemento di liberazione dai vincoli instintuali posti agli esseri umani e apre la strada 
ad una ragione che non conosce pit limiti a propri progetti. 

Questi rapidi accenni ad alcuni dei contributi del volume danno un’idea, sia pure 
sommaria, del sofisticato livello di approfondimento cui é giunta l’opera di Vico in 
Germania, e rendono meritoria questa iniziativa editoriale nata sotto gli auspici del 
“Centro di studi Vichiani” di Napoli. D’altro canto @ proprio la vitalita del pensiero 
del filosofo napoletano a uscire confermata sul piano internazionale e a mantenersi 
all’altezza delle principali questioni filosofiche contemporanee. Se ne trova 
un’ulteriore testimonianza nell’ampio saggio di Christoph Jerman su La recezione di 
Vico in Gadamer, che segnaliamo da ultimo. Jerman riconosce il carattere “evoluto” 
dell’impostazione ermeneutica che si trova nella Scienza nuova, al punto da 
sottolinearne la rilevanza e |’attualita rispetto alla stessa ermeneutica di Gadamer. 
Con questa nota concludiamo la nostra breve rassegna, non prima di aver ricordato la 
presenza nel volume di articoli e saggi di importanti studiosi di Vico italiani come 
Mario Agrimi, Gianfranco Cantelli, Donatella di Cesare, Alessandro Giuliani, Nicola 
Badaloni e Angela Maria Jacobelli Isoldi. 

Massimo Lollini, University of Oregon 


Antonio Illiano. Morfologia della narrazione manzoniana dal 
“Fermo e Lucia” ai “Promessi Sposi.” Firenze: Edizioni Cadmo, 
1993. Pp.) 155. 


L’interesse dei critici nei confronti della narrativa del Manzoni si é limitato nel 
passato in gran parte all’arte del narrare (a questioni, quindi, di ordine stilistico) oltre 
a confronti pressoché continui con opere e scrittori del passato, confronti quasi 


350 Annali d@’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


sempre condizionati da una visione tradizionale e circoscritta del romanzo. Anche 
negli ultimi due decenni, nel corso cioé di un periodo di fermento critico-intellettuale 
innestato ai nuovi valori della teoria letteraria provenienti maggiormente dalla 
Francia, pochi, in verita, sono stati 1 tentativi di disanima delle strategie del narrare 
nei Promessi sposi. Parlo di tentativi volti a un discorso chiaro e concreto, atto a 
metter in rilievo quanto di moderno e di singolare si possa riscontrare nel romanzo del 
Manzoni. 

Cosciente di tale lacuna, Antonio Illiano ci propone una morfologia della 
narrazione manzoniana che illumina in modo organico e comprensivo le molteplici 
strategie del narrare ravvisabili nel Fermo e Lucia, nei Promessi sposi, e nella Storia 
della colonna infame. I mezzo utilizzato @ |’esemplificazione, indice di un lavoro di 
selezione assiduo e faticoso che per certi versi pud anche definirsi a labor of love per 
l’opera del Manzoni. Va aggiunto che le citazioni testuali non soffocano, come 
spesso accade, il filo del discorso, ma lo complementano e Il’invigoriscono poiché si 
pongono quale conseguenza e dimostrazione ultima di riflessioni critiche vagliate 
con calma. 

La Prefazione, evitando i soliti schemi di giustificazione del volume, entra nel 
vivo della narrazione manzoniana enunciandone le voci pili significative, tra le quali 
va rilevato il rapporto multiforme tra l’autore (autore-scrittore o semplicemente chi 
scrive), il narratore (che nel Fermo e Lucia si autodefinisce redattore-trascrittore) e il 
lettore, o meglio i lettori quali “individui leggenti e ascoltanti”, come li definiva il 
Berchet nella Lettera semiseria. Illiano sostiene che a generare il romanzo 
manzoniano é “la duttile coerenza di una prassi narrativa che . . . illumina i processi 
della scrittura e preordina quelli della lettura” (xi). Da tale coerenza e dal rapporto di 
cooperazione che scaturisce tra narratore e autore-scrittore “emerge un sistema di 
strategie” (xi) che porteranno 1l’impronta dell’arte manzoniana, strategie quali la 
diegesi e la mimesi, l’allocuzione, la pseudocitazione, la preterizione, e la 
digressione. 

Questi ed altri elementi, ordinati in tredici capitoli di varia estensione, 
costituiscono i nuclei pil’ importanti del saggio di Illiano. In questo spazio ci 
limiteremo a sottolinearne le espressioni di maggior interesse. Va segnalata pertanto 
l’attenzione dello studioso all’attivita narrativa quale “‘preoccupazione profonda e 
costante del Manzoni” (7), il quale, affidandosi in gran parte alla diegesi, “tende 
naturalmente a una dimensione metanarrativa per molti rispetti precorritrice delle 
poetiche del romanzo novecentesco” (7). In questi termini, Illiano si sofferma sulla 
funzione che svolge il lettore nei Promessi sposi, vale a dire in una struttura narrativa 
che, riportandosi alla lezione dello Scott, accoglie il lettore come parte integrale del 
romanzo; pertanto “il lettore interviene nell’opera a rappresentare gli interessi 
dell’eventuale pubblico dei ‘fruitori’” (8). Emerge cosi la figura del lettore che serve 
da “interlocutore muto ma tutt’altro che mite e accondiscendente”, partecipe di “‘un 
rapporto implicitamente dialogante tra chi scrive e chi legge” (10) il cui fine, gia 
auspicato dal Conciliatore, sara quello di trasformare il pubblico “non curante” in 
pubblico “giudicante”. 

Incisivo anche il capitolo VI dal titolo “Innesto della diegesi nelle introduzioni” 
in cui viene rilevata l’importanza fondamentale e il carattere organico delle tre 
introduzioni del romanzo; spazio strategico e vitale, quello delle introduzioni, in cui 
l’autore “mirava a sistemare il quadro delle funzioni basilari del racconto, a definire il 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 351 


‘codice’ della narrazione e avviarne i meccanismi” (55). Nel capitolo successivo (65- 
87) Illiano discute, tra le modalita del narrare, il rapporto che intercorre tra i registri 
dell’enunciazione soggettiva: il noi, cioé, del narratore e 1’io dell’autore. Ne risulta 
un’analisi attenta delle “competenze specifiche” del soggetto narrante corredata da 
riferimenti testuali che, oltre a servire da referti esemplari, mettono in risalto “la 
sapienza narrativa” del Manzoni. Notevole anche |’attenzione alla pseudocitazione e 
alla digressione. La prima é definita “un sistematico richiamo testuale al presupposto 
che il racconto deve intendersi come rifacimento di un (presunto) manoscritto- 
documento che garantisca |’attendibilita dell’opera romanzesca” (88). La digressione, 
“notevole per la sua funzionalita squisitamente compositiva ed integrativa” (172), si 
articola in parentesi riflessive e inserti esegetici, ma l’uso pili comune é di servire 
all’inserimento di personaggi e avvenimenti quasi sempre storici. Anche qui IIliano 
conferisce alla funzionalita della digressione manzoniana valore extra-testuale, 
ponendo in risalto la mirabile coerenza manzoniana tra |’esercizio intellettuale dello 
scrittore, la scrittura, e il fine ultimo del narrare, che @ di ordine artistico e morale. 
Riportiamo il commento di Illiano sulla digressione del Manzoni che, in questo caso, 
riguarda la vita di Federigo Borromeo (cap. xxii): “Insomma il testo non deve lasciare 
neanche uno spiraglio a una sia pur effimera obiezione all’interezza e coerenza di un 
panegirico che obbedisce, come obbediva appunto il ministero di Federigo, al senso 
del dovere e della necessita” (119-20). 

Va detto, per concludere, che il discorso critico di Illiano vuole trascendere “i 
cerebralismi e bizantinismi delle neoteorie” (xii) che, in effetti, tendono ad offuscare 
il testo anziché elucidarne o facilitarne il senso. Ciononostante, anche quello 
dell’Illiano @ spesso un linguaggio tecnico, con un suo complesso di termini e 
formulazioni poco comuni, per non dire specialistici. E doveroso perd segnalare che, 
conscio di dover condurre un discorso critico fatto in gran parte di strutture e tecniche 
narrative, Illiano cerca di chiarirne i risvolti pit astrusi tramite definizioni, 
elucidazioni e, come si @ detto, esemplificazioni testuali. Comunque, anche quando lo 
scritto di Illiano tende al tecnico, é sempre lontano dall’asfittico. Anzi il lettore 
riscontrera Osservazioni e giudizi di notevole valore. Si veda, ad esempio, quanto 
segue: “I] monologo di Don Abbondio [cap. xxiii], in quanto espressione del bisogno 
di sussistere all’interno di una visione irriducibilmente egocentrica, é radicato in una 
forma cronica di autocompatimento vittimistico e quindi chiuso a ogni possibilita di 
redenzione” (37). Indice, questo, di acume critico da valorizzare assieme all’apporto 
proficuo del saggio, e all’impegno totale dell’autore nei confronti del Manzoni. 


Augusto Pallotta, Syracuse University 


Gaetano Cipolla. The Poetry of Nino Martoglio. New York: Legas, 
1993. Pp. xxix + 304. 


Nino Martoglio, un nome cosi ingiustamente trascurato dalla critica italiana (e fu 
grande drammaturgo, poeta e regista ammirato da Carducci e lodato da Pirandello), é 
stato finalmente rivendicato oltreoceano, grazie all’ultimo libro di Gaetano Cipolla 
intitolato The Poetry of Nino Martoglio, in siciliano col testo a fronte in inglese. 


352 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Cipolla ha scelto dalla raccolta poetica di Martoglio, intitolata Centona, gli 
scritti pit’ significativi e caratteristici della personalita martogliana, distribuendoli in 
spazi narrativi diacronici a effetto ‘“‘ascendentale”. I] risultato @ quello di aver 
raccontato, attraverso la presentazione selettiva dei versi di Martoglio, tutta la 
poetica dello scrittore siciliano che va dalla giustificazione dei propri versi, ai 
dialoghi dei sottofondi e disquisizioni sull’amore, per concludersi con due capolavori 
che sono vere e proprie messe in scena drammatiche e cioé Deposizione e Triplice 
alleanza. 

Sin dai versi inaugurali in cui ]’autore dialoga con la propria opera, si delineano 
immagini chiaroscurali soffuse di malinconia che servono a incorniciare le poesie che 
seguono. Ci sono le campane della chiesa di Sant’Agata, le donne festanti, i venditori 
di nocciole e gli zampognari, i sorrisi insomma, ma anche le lacrime (“dintra di tia ci 
trovu, nichi e granni,/ chiddi chi chianciu a lacrimi pirenni” “I find those things in 
you, both large and small,/ whose loss I’ve mourned with sad unending tears”), la 
morte e le cose perse (“tutti li cari mei ca sunnu morti” “tutti li cosi ca pirdivi in 
parti" “All things I lost in part,” “All my dear relatives who’ve passed away”). 
L’effetto € quello di rumore di voci parlate insieme (che é il significato del termine 
“centona”’). Sono le voci della sua Sicilia che profuma di sole e di sangue (“‘’ss’oduri di 
Sicilia ’ncueta”). 

L’anima che abita le poesie martogliane non ha subito alterazioni nella 
traduzione inglese di Gaetano Cipolla. E vero che un conto é tradurre parole e altro 
conto é filtrarci 1’anima. Ma Cipolla da esperto traduttore (si veda a proposito la sua 
traduzione delle Favole morali e del Don Chisciotte di Meli) quest’anima trasparente 
colorata di siciliano non I|’ha affatto opacizzata. Nel tradurre non ha minimamente 
scolorito i ritmi o sacrificato alla referenza i moduli espressivi dell’autore. Anzi, é 
riuscito addirittura a neutralizzare quella distanza che a volte sorge tra dialetto e 
lingua. Martoglio in inglese ha mantenuto la stessa leggerezza e celerita del 
dialogato, caratteristica dell’originale testo dialettale. 

La prova ritmica di questa aderenza al testo originale é la trasposizione della 
rima. Cipolla non ha parafrasato né sintetizzato il verso martogliano, ma l’ha calato 
cosi com’era, col battito della rima, nel nuovo spazio linguistico costituito 
dall’inglese, trasponendone la familiarita e le campiture cromatiche. Ne ha cosi 
preservato gli echi e le sfumature, il movimento e il metro, insomma tutte quelle cose 
che caratterizzano la poetica di Nino Martoglio. Ne riportiamo un esempio, 
sintomatico di questa tecnica di traduzione “parallela” eseguita da Cipolla. 


Li me’ sunetti 
Ju li cugghivi ’mmenzu li lurdumi, 
*ntra li taverna, ‘ntra lu lupanaru, 
unni lu nostru suli é tantu avaru 
di luci, né virtu, né c’é custumi. 


Ju li cugghivi unni paru paru 

lu sangu allimaratu scurmi a sciumi, 
unni lu scuru é fittu e c’é pri lumi 
sulu ocche luci luci picuraru. 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 353 


E li cugghii di notti, sgammittati 
e tastiannu comu |’orvi muru muru 
e zuppicannu comu li sciancati. 


Pricchissu, ed anchi pricchi su’ sicuru 
chi a fari lustru non su’ distinati, 
ju li vosi chiamari: “’o scuru, ’o scuru”. 


My Sonnets 
My sonnets were collected out of sight 
in taverns, caves, among all kinds of filth, 
wherein our sun is stingy with its light, 
where neither virtue reigns nor any worth. 


I gather them where thickly flows the blood 

as in a river, mixed with muck and mud, 

where darkness reigns supreme, and where alone 
the light of fireflies has ever shone. 


I gathered them at night with missing legs, 
feeling my way on walls as blind men do 
and tripping on the ground as someone lame. 


For this and for the fact I’ve stirred the dregs, 
and since they’re not meant to enlighten you, 
I chose “deep darkness” as their rightful name. 


Infine il saggio introduttivo di Cipolla, che traccia l’opera poetica di Martoglio 

e si sofferma dettagliatamente su lavori come Triplice alleanza e Deposizione, é da 

considerarsi chiave di lettura indispensabile per una fruizione totale del testo 

martogliano che ancor oggi rimane (agrodolce) testamento d’amore di un uomo per la 
sua gente. 

Annalisa Sacca, St. John’s University 


Antonino Musumeci. La musa e mammona, L’uso borghese della 
parola nell’Ottocento italiano. Il portico, 98. Ravenna: Longo 
Editore, 1992. Pp. 158. 


The false god Mammon may not be immediately recognized in its Italian version, 
juxtaposed to the patron goddess of the arts. Our contemporary taste for the unusual, 
the striking, “la maraviglia,” is perhaps well served by the title; what survives of 
rationalism is better served by the subtitle. But the latter, too, introduces some 
difficulties, for again a straightforward statement of the subject of this book is 
avoided. The Premessa is a further self-indulgence, a further screen with which to 
shield rather than reveal, for the address to the reader coily undercuts itself by 


354 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


questioning whether in effect there will be a reader. Perhaps all this caution, this 
dovrei e non dovrei, is understandable in view of the unusual texts examined in this 
study — studied, however, through an approach that is not at all unusual, The project 
is to present a method of reading to facilitate understanding these texts — and here we 
reach the clinching disclosure — “misteriosamente riemersi dopo oltre un secolo 
nelle vaste praterie del Midwest Americano” (8). 

Sometimes the lonely scholar, secluded in the fastness of his study, an exile 
from the culture into which he was born yet pushed up against it by the day-to-day 
routine of classroom and library, is rewarded with a rare gift: a work or a group of 
works that he is the first to subject to analysis, although they were not written 
yesterday, like a best- or not best-seller, but long enough in the past to have become 
historical. How are they going to be read? There are no guides, no models, no reviews 
of earlier criticism to lead the way. They are new because they have been rediscovered, 
chance has preserved them, chance has brought them to the attention of the scholar- 
critic who is their first reader after the reader(s) for whom they were written. We have 
no contemporaneous views of them and no succession of views thereafter. Luckily — 
or unluckily? — they are not works of great esthetic value, indeed their worth is more 
contingent than intrinsic. Contingent in the manner of their rediscovery but also in 
the cultural context into which they have reemerged. Ten or twenty years ago they 
would have at most attracted the attention of some bibliophile, of some antiquated 
erudito. Although in form the most traditional in Italian — and for that matter 
European — literature, they were already out of style when written; they and the 
tradition from which they derive are today only retrievable through scholarship. A 
whole series of ruptures, from Romanticism to the avant-gardes of the 20th Century, 
stand between us and them. 

The Biblioteca Cavagna Sangiuliani was acquired by the University of Illinois 
Library shortly after World War I. The cataloguing of its more than 100,000 items 
has only recently been completed. Among the 85,000 printed works are the 
epithalamia and the laudationes funebres which occasioned this study. Clearly 
organized and tightly argued, it is a model for the presentation of arcane subject 
matter and for pressing significance out of it. Ninety-nine out of a hundred scholars 
would no doubt have passed by the ephemeral publications per nozze and in morte 
that Musumeci patiently, lovingly, almost obsessively examined. 

One chapter each is devoted to the two genres, further subdivided into a historical 
perspective on the genre and its development, and its 19th-century treatment 
according to the evidence in the Cavagna Collection. Musumeci establishes, to make 
use of his critical vocabulary, the “classical code” and traces it in its various 
transformations (“transitional code’), in order to arrive at the “bourgeois code” 
revealed in these responses to the two fundamental moments of existence, love and 
death (156). No doubt there is something mechanical in the resulting 
characterizations, in the method and its application. As with every scientific 
(theoretical) framework, so close to the straitjacket, there is a tendency for 
specificity, for the particular in the universal, to be lost. This tendency is underscored 
by the third chapter of this work, more precisely the second part of Chapter I, the 
“apparent digression” (21) on the coming to power of the middle class (middle 
classes?) in 19th-century Italy. It is a de rigueur historical introduction in the 
ideological perspective of the 1970s, somewhat difficult to reconcile with the 


Annali d@’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 355 


affectionate evocation of the figures with which Musumeci became acquainted in the 
course of his work: “il loquace ed ansioso avvocato Carlo . . . il burocratico ed 
egoistico professor Pietro Martire Rusconi . . . l’innominato cugino di Paolo Soldati” 
(8-9), etc. To reduce all these to the status of worshippers of Mammon seems to me an 
unwarranted short-cut to the identification of a “bourgeois” value system. 

What finally is Musumeci’s contribution to scholarship in the broader sense 
with this book? It shows that genre studies are once again firmly established in the 
study of Italian literature. In the chapter on epithalamia especially, it is rich in much 
useful bibliography culled from English, American and French sources, thus 
undermining the still all too frequent barrier of linguistic and national 
compartmentalization. And in the repeated references to the author alle prese with his 
material, it humanizes in an engaging manner an activity which has too often been 
portrayed only by the “publish or perish” imperative. 


Olga Ragusa, Columbia University 


Frank I. Calderone. JI ciclo dei "vinti" da Verga a De Roberto. 
Ravenna: Longo, 1992. Pp. 252 


In this highly readable and well documented book the author sets out to demonstrate 
the extent to which Verga’s major works are cyclical and how the cycle of the “vinti” 
is continued and brought to conclusion by Verga’s friend, disciple, and critic, 
Federico De Roberto. 

To be sure, the mention of the close correlation between the two Sicilian authors 
has been almost a commonplace. It has already been mentioned and, to a greater or 
lesser extent, discussed by well-established critics such as Spinazzola, Madrignani, 
Tedesco, Sipala, Grana, Scuderi, etc. However, as Calderone points out, there has not 
been a critical study focusing exclusively on the cycle of the “vinti,” neither in its 
“moto evolutivo né nella sua dialettica unitaria” (11), except for three articles 
published by himself. In this book, the basis for which was the author’s Ph.D. 
dissertation, Calderone brings out the myriad of connections leading the way to a 
cohesive development and conclusion of the cycle through which Verga intended to 
represent society’s evolution, from the most elementary “appetites” to luxury. As is 
well known, of the five novels envisaged by Verga — I Malavoglia, Mastro don 
Gesualdo, La Duchessa di Leyra, L'Onorevole Scipioni, L’uomo di lusso — only the 
first two were completed, while the third was abandoned after a chapter or so. De 
Roberto, who not only knew intimately Verga’s writings but was also in close 
contacts with him, concluded the cycle with his novels about the Uzedas, L’ illusione, 
I Viceré, and L’Imperio. 

To show the cohesive and/or parallel elements — thematic, linguistic, 
ideological, and situational — in both Verga and De Roberto, Calderone divides his 
book in two parts, the first containing Chapters 1-6 and the other, Chapters 7-10. 
The world of the “vinti” is present in several short stories and novels, delineating a 
movement from a human, “primitive” society to a “modern” one, bringing with it a 
change in positive values inversely proportional to the acquisition of goods and 


356 Annali d@’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


power, as shown in the stories ranging from Verga’s Vita dei campi through De 
Roberto’s L’Imperio. This is a daunting task, but Calderone, clearly in control of the 
primary texts and mindful of existing criticism, leads the reader through a systematic, 
step-by-step “discovery” of previously unacknowledged pieces of a giant tapestry. 

In a brief discussion on the phylosophical and stylistic bases for the cycle, the 
author reminds us of the connections with Darwin, Flaubert, and especially Zola and 
his “le débordement des appétits.” The “appetites” drive the Darwinian struggle for 
social climbing and “progress,” changing from elemental to complex, from a hunger 
for basic food to a hunger for power and control, from the “primitive” phase of Nedda 
and Vita dei campi to L’Imperio. The author shows that the cycle of the “vinti” starts 
thematically with Nedda (1974), even though Verga has not yet adopted the stylistic 
devices of impersonality and indirect free dialog. Death, as a liberation from suffering 
and poverty, is a recurring theme in the first phases of the cycle, such as in Vita dei 
campi (Rosso Malpelo, Fantasticheria) and 1 Malovoglia. Death here is described 
very sparingly, whereas in later works, where better social conditions bring about a 
firmer attachment to life, the authors give progressively more detailed and disturbing 
descriptions of sickness and death (Nunzio, Bianca and Gesualdo in Verga, Giacomo 
in De Roberto) (37). 

In Chapter 2 the “primitive” phase of the cycle is analyzed through the lives of 
Rosso Malpelo, Jeli il pastore, L’'amante di Gramigna, and La lupa, where there is 
either a lack of knowledge of social and ethical principles, as in the first two stories, 
or a disregard of those principles because of overwhelming passion, as in the latter 
two stories. The analysis is carried out through meticulous textual comparisons, a 
method employed by Calderone throughout his book, and points to the structural 
importance of these stories, since these motifs are taken up, closing the cycle, in the 
last pages of L’Imperio, and point to a possible remedy, the family, as “istituzione 
‘primordiale’ e stabile” (51), the theme of the first novel of the cycle. 

In the following chapter the author observes that in Fantasticheria Verga 
introduces an ancient and patriarchal civilization, based on the concept of “religion 
of the family,” through which traditional values are respected and handed down. 
Important is the observation that “scoglio” and “sassi” are symbols of natural 
stability, personified here and in J Malavoglia. Rather perceptive and indeed helpful 
is Calderone’s restructuring of J Malavoglia into three equal parts, rather than two, 
giving it a semblance of a three act tragedy (59). This novel itself is cyclical, because 
at the end tranquillity returns to Acitrezza and the Malavoglias of the first chapter will 
continue the line through Alessi’s children. At the same time, some important points 
of reference are set apart: the importance of family and traditions, the absolute 
importance of keeping one’s word, and the honesty and honor of women, on which 
the family honor depends. Wanderings away from the family and economic 
amelioration are successive stages of the cycle of the “vinti.” As Caldrone states, 
“L’idea del ciclo dei ‘vinti’ come una narrazione continuata da un’opera all’altra é 
quindi sempre presente in Verga” (82). 

This notion is shown in Chapter 4, “L’idolatria della roba e l’orgoglio dei 
padroni nel Mastro don Gesualdo.” The author interprets this novel as providing an 
answer to a hypothetical question, “What would have happened to ’Ntoni, to his 
family, and to his whole town if he had returned as a rich man?” Here we are removed 
from the “primitive” state, where society was founded on family, home, and work and 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 357 


on an equilibrium of good and evil, of ownership of material goods and woman (83). 
The satisfaction of greater “appetites” brings about the downfall of the family. One’s 
word is no longer his bond; so the written document, in the form of the testament, 
becomes a dominant feature, even in its absence, as in the case of Baroness Rubiera 
and Gesualdo himself. 

In the following two chapters, Calderone shows the clear line of succession from 
Verga to De Roberto, not in the form, but in the content of // paradiso perduto and 
L'Illusione and in the images of vanity and the loss of Eden. Vanity, individualism, 
the satisfaction of higher — and, therefore, more artificial and negative — 
“appetites,” and the imposition of one’s will on others are the main forces driving 
the rest of the cycle. Especially in / viceré, the “religione della famiglia” is 
completely overturned, as exemplified by the dissolution of marriages and the 
disinheritance, in a written testament, of Consalvo. But there are many other 
affinities in the two authors’ minor works that provide irrefutable evidence of the 
interconnection between the works treated, whose goal is “rappresentare 1’umanita 
nella sua evoluzione sociale che diviene allo stesso tempo un’involuzione morale” 
(151). 

Part II is intended to show that the connecting elements between the two 
“verismo” authors are also evident, and plentiful, in the typology and in the 
symbolic use of certain animal families, reflecting the evolutional, economic, and 
social trajectory and its corresponding moral “involution” experienced by many 
primary and secondary characters. In “L’evoluzione del ‘pentolaccia’ nel ciclo,” 
examples are given even from Capuana’s works. In fact, his pseudo-popular song “Lu 
cumpari” not only contains the theme of the cuckold but had an influence on the 
popular form adopted by Verga in his “verismo” works (157). The “pentolaccia” types 
are categorized as “‘ignari,” “meno ignari,” and “venali.” Through intertextual 
comparisons it is easy to see that the venial cuckhold reaches its extreme expression 
in the figure of Garino in / viceré. In any case, this theme is interwoven and 
contrasted with the two primordial principles on which rests a family’s stability, 
honor and “ownership” of the woman (181). 

Of the last three chapters, “Le vespe e i vagabondi nel ciclo,” “L’evoluzione di 
alcune metafore e i ‘canidi,’” and “I simboli equini,” the last two are especially 
interesting. As the wolf, the dog, and the fox represent the human “appetites,” as 
Calderone suggests, the donkey, the mule, and the horse represent the social strata 
corresponding to the various phases of the appetites, that is, the world of the poor, 
the world of the middle class, and the world of the nobles. With the return of the 
symbol of the donkey in the last chapter of L’Imperio, we have the last proof of the 
ideological unity of the cycle binding together two writers who are fundamentally 
different, in temperament, creativity, and artistic ability (246). 

The main merit of this book rests not so much on the originality of its content 
but on the thoroughness of the author’s research and on the use of sources. The 
linearity and clarity of its exposition makes this book valuable both to scholars and 
to more casual readers. 


Augusto Mastri, University of Louisville 


358 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Antonio Lucio Giannone. Futurismo e dintorni. Lecce: Congedo 
Editore, 1993. Pp. 135. 


In questo volume Giannone raccoglie una serie di saggi e recenzioni da lui gia 
pubblicati tra il 1976 e il 1992. Fanno eccezione i primi due scritti, “Teoria e pratica 
del paroliberismo” e “Scheda su ‘Lacerba’”, i quali costituiranno le voci “Parole in 
liberta” e “Lacerba” nel Dizionario del futurismo, a cura di E. Godoli, di prossima 
pubblicazione presso l’editore Cantini di Firenze. I] titolo del volume preannuncia la 
latitudine dei criteri in base a cui i vari scritti sono stati inclusi nella raccolta. La 
prima parte riunisce nove brevi saggi e una recenzione in cui sono considerati vari 
aspetti, momenti e figure del movimento futurista. La seconda parte, comprendente tre 
recenzioni (“Il ritorno del Peccato di Boine”, “Alle origini dell’Allegria: le lettere dal 
fronte di Giuseppe Ungaretti”, “Uccidi: note di guerra di Tommaso Fiore”) e un 
supplemento bibliografico (“Aggiunte alla Bibliografia di Aldo Palazzeschi’), allarga 
i parametri della raccolta associando scrittori come Boine, Ungaretti, Fiore e 
Palazzeschi in un’area culturale vagamente designata come “dintorni” del futurismo. 

Mancando uno scritto introduttivo che sopperisca alla frammentarieta della 
raccolta, i presupposti metodologici della ricerca di Giannone vengono 
indirettamente formulati in “Un libro sul futurismo”, la recenzione a Futuristi nelle 
Marche di Anna Caterina Toni (Roma: De Luca, 1982) che conclude la prima parte del 
volume. Nell’offrire una positiva valutazione dell’approccio “microstorico” assunto 
dalla Toni, Giannone sembra anche giustificare il proprio fondamentale proposito di 
riportare alla luce le articolazioni locali, gli episodi dimenticati, le figure trascurate 
del futurismo. Tale proposito, a detta dello stesso Giannone, si colloca nell’ambito di 
un “nuovo corso” della critica futurista, che risale alle indagini iniziate da Crispolti 
nei primi anni Sessanta, e acquista vigore durante gli anni Settanta, grazie soprattutto 
all’opera di Luciano De Maria, Glauco Viazzi, Umberto Carpi, Luciano Caruso e 
Claudia Salaris. Caratteristica principale di questo nuovo corso @ un impegno di 
ricerca storiografica che abbandona la riduttiva prospettiva pitturocentrica, 
Boccionicentrica e Marinetticentrica, prevalsa fino alla fine degli anni Sessanta, per 
ricostruire un’immagine meno parziale del movimento attraverso il suo “complesso e 
variopinto mosaico di riviste e di gruppi e personaggi, attivi nel periodo tra le due 
guerre su tutto il territorio nazionale” (98). 

Gli scritti della prima parte sono infatti ordinati in modo da spostare 1’ attenzione 
del lettore dagli aspetti pit’ centrali del movimento a quelli pid marginali e periferici: 
le manifestazioni provinciali, le figure minori e la vita “postuma” del futurismo. Si 
parte da una breve storia della “Teoria e pratica del paroliberismo”, che riassume i 
principi fondamentali della poetica futurista e ripercorre le tappe della sua evoluzione, 
dalle prescrizioni categoriche e dalle radicali sperimentazioni dei primi anni Dieci, 
alla “versione pit elastica e allargata” degli anni Trenta (17). 

I due saggi seguenti considerano i due diversi momenti del futurismo fiorentino. 
“Scheda su ‘Lacerba’” riassume le tumultuose vicende della rivista con particolare 
attenzione alla sua fase futurista: la breve collaborazione di Papini, Soffici e 
Palazzeschi col gruppo milanese di Marinetti (marzo 1913-agosto 1914); la polemica 
contro il paroliberismo e il “marinettismo” iniziata da Papini coll’articolo “Il cerchio 
si chiude”; e la successiva rottura, definitivamente sancita dall’articolo “Futurismo e 
Marinettismo” firmato da Papini, Soffici e Palazzeschi (14 febbraio 1915). Del 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 359 


secondo gruppo fiorentino, costituito dai fondatori e collaboratori del periodico 
“L’Italia futurista”, Giannone esamina invece l’abbondante produzione di prose 
liriche. Notando che tale produzione non é riconducibile ai canoni ufficiali del 
futurismo, e che la critica ha esagerato l’importanza di certe prefigurazioni surrealiste, 
l’autore propone un approccio di “integrale storicizzazione” (30) e identifica 
convergenze stilistiche e tematiche tra la poetica della “pattuglia azzurra” e il 
frammentismo vociano. 

Da questa poetica ai margini della sperimentazione paroliberista si passa a 
Fortunato Depero, |’artista che forse pit’ di ogni altro ha spinto la teoria e invenzione 
futurista al di 1a dei limiti tradizionali dell’arte, nel nuovo territorio della 
comunicazione di massa. Giannone sottolinea ]’importanza del libro “imbullonato” 
(Depero futurista) e delle Liriche radiofoniche, dove |’ artista di Rovereto afferma una 
nuova concezione del libro come involucro reclamizzante del prodotto-arte, e 
sperimenta con le nuove possibilita artistiche desunte da radiotelegrafia e 
cinematografia. 

Nei tre saggi successivi Giannone si sposta in un ambito prettamente 
provinciale dove, a mio parere, egli offre il suo contributo pit valido. “I] Futurismo 
nel Salento” e il “profilo” dell’aeropittore leccese Mino delle Site compongono una 
storia dettagliata della esperienza futurista nella zona di Lecce. “I] futurismo 
‘selvaggio’ di Giacomo Giardina” illustra invece l’esperienza poetica di un pastore 
siciliano autodidatta, esponente di una corrente agreste e bucolica del futurismo. 
Queste minute ricostruzioni delle vicessitudini del movimento in ambienti culturali 
prevalentemente ostili alle innovazioni dell’avanguardia aggiungono altre tessere al 
mosaico della “molteplicita topografica” e della plurivocita che contraddistingue il 
futurismo rispetto ad altri movimenti d’avanguardia — caratteristica gia sottolineata 
da Crispolti in Storia e critica del Futurismo (Bari: Laterza, 1986) e ampiamente 
illustrata dalla Salaris nella sua Storia del futurismo (Roma: Editori riuniti, 1985). A 
Giannone va il merito di aver dissotterrato significativi frammenti di un futurismo 
provinciale, “selvaggio”, dimenticato. 

Oltre alle sopraddette recenzioni, la raccolta include un ultimo scritto: un breve 
studio su “La ‘contropoesia’ di Bruno G. Sanzin”. Sia i profili di Delle Site e Giardina 
che quello di Sanzin affrontano un altro aspetto trascurato della storia del futurismo: 
“un risveglio di vitalita di cui danno prova alcuni esponenti del movimento 
marinettiano” (91). I tre autori in questione sono infatti ritornati a pubblicare dopo un 
lungo silenzio, in coincidenza con la rinascita del futurismo all’attenzione della 
critica. Nell’ultima produzione di Sanzin, Giannone riscontra il persistere di una 
concezione “anticonformista ed eversiva nei confronti della poesia tradizionale e 
istituzionalizzata, proprio secondo la lezione e lo spirito pit’ genuini del futurismo” 
(92). Alcuni brevi componimenti da Prendere o lasciare (Trieste: ed. dell’ Autore, 
1982) sono citati a illustrazione dei due toni fondamentali che si alternano e 
intrecciano nell’opera del poeta triestino: quello riflessivo, cupo di poesie che 
affrontano tematiche esistenziali, e quello ironico o sarcastico di epigrammatiche 
meditazioni su temi topici della realta contemporanea. Qui, pili che esplorare, 
Giannone suggerisce linee di indagine, per esempio, circa le implicazioni 
ideologiche della prospettiva “rovesciata” di Sanzin, o i cospicui richiami alla 
filosofia e alla retorica del “controdolore” di Palazzeschi. Anche in altri saggi si 
desidererebbe a volte un maggiore approfondimento, sia sul piano dell’analisi 


360 Annali d@’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


testuale che su quello della riflessione ideologica. 

In generale la validita del volume di Giannone, utile sia agli studiosi di futurismo 
che ai non addetti al lavoro, risiede nei suoi molteplici contributi alla “microstoria” 
del movimento. 


Cinzia Sartini Blum, The University of Iowa 


Anna Meda. Bianche statue contro il nero abisso. Il teatro dei miti 
in D’Annunzio e Pirandello. Pref. Cesare Segre. Ravenna: Longo, 
1993. Pp. 391. 


Anna Meda’s excellent study, based on her doctoral dissertation for the University of 
South Africa, takes its title from Pirandello’s citation of Nietzsche in an interview 
published shortly before his death. “Nietzsche diceva che i Greci alzavano bianche 
statue contro il nero abisso, per nasconderlo. Sono finiti quei tempi. Io le scroilo 
invece per rivelarlo” (Quadrivio, Nov. 15, 1936; qtd. 198). The modern artist, 
Pirandello continues, must, like Faust, descend into the “infernal region of the 
Mothers.” For Meda, this operation signifies a descent into the Jungian collective 
unconscious, and it is from a Jungian perspective that she interprets D’Annunzio’s 
use of myth from the outset of his dramatic career in La citta morta, Fedra, and La 
figlia di Jorio, and Pirandello’s use of myth at the end of his career in La nuova 
colonia, Lazzaro, and I giganti della montagna. 

For both writers, interest in the possibilities of myth in modern drama derives in 
part from the influence of Nietzsche’s Birth of Tragedy and more generally from the 
fin de siécle climate of irrationalism and revolt against bourgeois drama and the well- 
made play. Rejecting the developmental movement of both traditional drama and of 
history, D’Annunzio and Pirandello seek a dramatic space that is atemporal, 
ahistorical, and universal — a space that Meda identifies with the Jungian archetype. 

This said, it is obvious that D’Annunzio’s and Pirandello’s theatrical aesthetics 
differ profoundly, so much so that the two have more often been contrasted than 
compared. D’Annunzio’s idea of theater, Meda reminds us, is announced in his novel 
Il fuoco and first realized in the “modern tragedy” La citta morta. The inspiration of 
the “dionysiac woman” (at the time, Duse), the fusion of the Apollonian and 
Dionysiac and the emergence of a modern “superhero” (from Nietzsche), the idea of a 
total and national theater (from Wagner), and the fusion of myth and modernity in an 
effort to abolish “the error of time,” all contribute to D’Annunzio’s theatrical theory 
and practice. La citta morta is thick with intertextuality. All the myths of Mycenae, 
as well as that of Antigone, permeate its modern characters and their story. Leonardo, 
the hero as archeologist, is also, for Meda, the archetypical Jungian hero searching 
for secret treasures within himself through an exploration of (a regression into) the 
dead city which represents both the positive (protective, benevolent) and the 
negative (sterile, destructive) aspects of the Mother or the maternal body. Bianca 
Maria, the sister whom he will sacrifice, represents a different Jungian projection for 
each character: for Leonardo, the Mother, for Alessandro his “‘Anima,” and for Anna, 
the archetypal Virgin, her positive “shadow.” Leonardo’s murder of his sister, a 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 361 


criminal act in modern terms, represents on the mythical level. the victory of man 
over his primitive nature. 

So stated, Anna Meda’s Jungian identifications may seem somewhat reductive, 
but her analysis is generally far more subtle than her conclusions. The rich material 
of La figlia di Jorio, with its metahistorical overlays of folkloric, Christian, and 
classical as well as psychological strata offer the opportunity for an often fascinating 
discussion of the dramatic conflict of maternal and paternal archetypes, of 
D’Annunzio’s use of the Orphic, primordial poetic Word in theater, and once again 
the motif of the ritual sacrifice of woman for the benefit of the hero. Following Ermst 
Neumann’s discussion of the matriarchal civilization of Crete opposed to the 
patriarchal one of Greece, she interprets Fedra through archetypal manifestations of 
the figure of the Great Mother and her son-lover. 

Like D’Annunzio’s, Pirandello’s interest in the role of myth in theater can be 
traced in part to the turn of the century sense of crisis in civilization and 
contemporary espousal of irrationalism and of ahistoricism. For Pirandello too, the 
Great Mother figure, representing organic nature and instinct, seems to serve as a 
counterpoise to a liberal political and economic system perceived as abstract and 
dehumanizing. Unlike D’Annunzio, however, Pirandello rejects the use of classical 
myths in order to search for modern myths, that is, for modern versions of 
archetypical images in the attempt to restore a sense of universal values. In the three 
plays Pirandello himself called “myths,” Meda analyzes how this search operates on 
the level of society (“La nuova colonia”), on the level of religion (“Lazzaro”), and on 
the level of art (“I giganti della montagna”). The island, in the first, represents a kind 
of Eden but not so much a social utopia as a condition outside of time and history, an 
archetypal possibility of rebirth. The “new colony” fails when the maternal 
archetypes are rejected for a patriarchy that incorporates the corrupting influences of 
civilization. 

In her discussion of “Lazzaro,” Meda brings up the knotty and still unresolved 
problem of the relation between Pirandello’s espousal of fascism and his artistic 
production. Do the “myth” plays, as several critics have claimed, represent 
Pirandello’s attempt to respond to the call made by Bontempelli and Bragaglia, 
among others, for dramatists to create fascist “myths” for the “education” of the 
people? Unfortunately, she sidesteps this important issue, accepting Giudice’s older 
judgment of Pirandello as incoherent and contradictory as “piuttosto convincente.” 
Since “myth” was a fascist buzz word in the cultural domain as well as in the prefascist 
intellectual climate in which D’Annunzio participated, a more thorough discussion of 
the fascist connection would have added an important dimension to the book. Stull, 
her discussion of “Lazzaro” as a modern rewriting of the Biblical myth of Abraham 
and Isaac, centered around the hero’s (Lucio’s) disobedience of the father and return to 
the Great Mother figure (Sara), is highly suggestive. 

Ending the book with Pirandello’s last and incompleted play, J giganti della 
montagna, Anna Meda is able to point out the complex restating of Pirandello’s 
major myth-themes such as the creative power of the unconscious, the opposition of 
the social-materialistic-patriarchal realm to the spiritual and maternal one, and the 
archetypal value of the mother-son couple, both in the intertextual Figlio cambiato 
and in Ilse and her dead poet. It is in fact the figure of the Great Mother and her 
relation to the figure of the hero, male and female, that turns out to be the most 


362 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


important archetype in the comparison of D’Annunzio’s and Pirandello’s versions of 
myth in drama. In her conclusion, Meda compares D’Annunzio’s configuration of this 
couple to the germanic myth of Wotan, who serves and receives wisdom from the 
Mother but also sacrifices to her his right eye, a form of spiritual castration 
indicative of the fear/desire of death and dissolution in incestuous union. Leonardo, 
who sacrifices his sister because of this fear, does not achieve the hero’s complete 
regeneration, whereas D’Annunzio’s true heroes — such as Fedra and Mila — are 
women who fuse the life force of the Mother with a masculine will to power in the 
accomplishment of a pure act of sacrifice of the self. The struggle of the Pirandellian 
hero, on the other hand, is with the “paternal dragon,” the Law of the Terrible Father 
who threatens to destroy the intuitive and creative richness of the unconscious. This 
then explains Pirandello’s valorizing of the Feminine and the apparent difference 
between D’Annunzio the totalizer and Pirandello the decomposer. 

The conclusions and comparisons that Meda makes at the end of her book seem 
to raise more questions than they answer and, unlike her individual analyses of the 
plays, remain at a thematic level to the neglect of linguistic, poetic, and specifically 
dramatic textual elements. Attempts to reconcile the divergent poetics of the two 
writers remain somewhat unconvincing. Yet Bianche statue succeeds in convincing 
this reader, at least, of the enduring interest and suggestivity of Jungian analysis as a 
tool for reading literature. Thanks to Anna Meda’s meticulous research and deft 
handling of complex material, this book will also be a precious source for Pirandello 
and D’Annunzio scholars. 

Mary Ann Frese Witt, North Carolina State University 


Andrew Hewitt. Fascist Modernism. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1993. 
Pp. 222. 

Andrew Hewitt’s Fascist Modernism is a peculiar book. It promises more than it 
delivers on an important topic and left this reader both frustrated and annoyed that a 
good idea should come up short. Until recently, culture under fascism was 
systematically neglected. If any attention was given to the subject, fascist culture was 
identified with the monumental and traditional and certainly not with the avant-garde. 
Jeffrey Herf’s Reactionary Modernism was one of the first studies to take as its central 
theme the coexistence in a number of important writers of an embrace of the modern 
with reactionary, if not overtly fascist, politics. Herf grafted a sociological 
perspective on his historical analysis. Hewitt in contrast uses analytical tools 
borrowed from recent literary and aesthetic theorists to look at the years from 1900 to 
1939, during which both the avant-garde and fascism flourished, but Walter 
Benjamin’s insight that fascism represented the aesthetization of politics and Jiirgen 
Habermas’s study of the rise and decline of the bourgeois public sphere established 
the overall framework within which Hewitt develops his ideas. Unlike Benjamin, who 
wrote within a leftist tradition that identified the avant-garde with progressive 
politics, Hewitt does not accept any automatic identification of modernization and 
Enlightenment ideals. He notes that the modemist impulse and fascism not only 
developed simultaneously, but also had at base some common preoccupations with 
technology, industrialization, and the irrational impulses inherent in mass society. 
More importantly, he examines how the search for solutions to these problems drew 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 363 


some modernists to the multiple versions of fascism. 

Hewitt has some extremely interesting insights on the evolution of the cultural 
avant-garde during the nineteenth-century. He describes the passage of the avant- 
garde from a technological elite, seen by Saint-Simon early in the century to be an 
emerging, progressive force in modern life, to the tum-of-the-century revolt against 
posivitist certainties in which much of the optimism over the role of intellectuals in 
industrial society disappeared. The modernist artist both reflected the ambivalence 
within and rejection of the bourgeois liberal political order and public sphere. The 
refusal to accept the consequences of the new capitalist industrial order opened the 
way for radical aesthetic and political solutions in which the artist deliberately 
assumed the role of outsider. By the end of the century this affirmation of 
individuality moved from decadence and the social ideal of the dandy to pre-fascism. 

Maurice Barrés exemplifies this passage from decadence to the development of 
the new nationalism during the 1890s. Barrés’s career embodied the transition from 
decadence and artistic hermeticism to Boulangist politics, the anti-Dreyfus cause, and 
extreme nationalism. It was a process in which the artistic sensibility becomes aware 
of and frightened by the masses, but, at the same time, seeks through an essentially 
aesthetic vision of politics to shape and dominate the impressionable crowd. Hewitt 
chooses Filippo Tommaso Marinetti to illustrate the passage from aesthetic revolt to 
nationalism and fascism, but a quite different approach would be necessary to do 
justice to this subject. The problem is that Marinetti is viewed in total isolation from 
Italian culture and the larger futurist movement. Hewitt uses only a small fraction of 
Marinetti’s artistic production and nothing from other Futurists or from major 
contemporaries like Papini, Prezzolini, Soffici, Amendola, and Jahier. But he does at 
least clarify the authoritarianism and traditionalism lurking behind Marinetti’s pre- 
1914 cultural and political positions, and leaves no doubt that Marinetti’s ideas of 
power and of social hierarchies were perfectly in tune with those of fascism. 

Unfortunately, one arrives at the end of Fascist Modernism with a very uncertain 
notion of the relation between modernist culture and fascism. In part, this failure is 
due to an almost complete lack of any historical frame of reference despite many 
sweeping generalizations about history, economics, and society. But much of the 
problem derives from a writing style that seemingly cultivates obscurity and 
opaqueness as positive values. The text is replete with curious sentences like this 
one: “It is only a decadent decadence that could possibly realize itself in practice — 
and yet, as a decadence within the very category of the decadent itself, such a decadent 
decadence might indeed be the purest form of decadence” (77). One has the 
uncomfortable sense that this book was written, not to be read or understood by any 
reasonably literate general audience, but rather to show how bright and au courant 
about fashionable literary theory the author is. The result is a missed opportunity by 
an obviously intelligent scholar. A far better treatment of the subject of modernism 
and fascism can be found in Walter Adamson’s excellent collective biography of the 
1880s generation, Avant-garde Florence: From Modernism to Fascism (Harvard, 
1993). Adamson goes directly to the literary and historical sources, whereas Hewitt 
writes almost exclusively about those who have written about the problem. Given the 
scarcity of studies in English about early twentieth century Italian culture, Hewitt’s 
decision is regrettable. 

Alexander De Grand, North Carolina State University 


364 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Unspeakable Women. Selected Short Stories Written by Italian 
Women During Fascism. Trans., introd., afterword Robin Pickering- 
Iazzi. New York: The Feminist Press at the City U of New York, 
1993. 


It was with pleasure and relief that I read Unspeakable Women by Robin Pickering- 
Iazzi, a collection of sixteen short stories by Italian women writers during the Fascist 
era. To know that these writers could make their voices heard in such an oppressive 
time of Italian history is a refreshing and delightful surprise. My understanding of 
women living through Fascism, in fact, derived either from gloomy stories heard at 
family reunions that haunted my mind as a child, or from writings such as Piero 
Meldini’s “Sposa e madre esemplare.” The thesis of this first substantial research on 
fascist politics and women written in 1975 was accepted and developed by most 
feminists, who stressed how women, as the title of the book points out, were praised 
only as exemplary wives and mothers. 

However, by stressing that fascist propaganda considered women either faithful 
vestal virgins or prolific mothers, these publications put aside and forgot many 
contradictions at work in the regime, such as the astonishing failure of the 
demographic campaign. Victoria de Grazia’s How Fascism Ruled Women: Italy, 1922- 
1945 remains the landmark work that challenges the monolithic image of women 
during the fascist regime by proposing a more complex one. De Grazia, a history 
professor at Columbia University, suggests that Fascism provided enough space, if 
only subtly, for women to participate actively in social life, provided that they were 
first commited to their family life. Tradition and “emancipation” co-existed, since 
women were required to be devoted to their families but at the same time to their 
country. In this way women could share men’s interests. 

In her extensive “Introduction” to Unspeakable Women, Pickering-Iazzi, 
following the path inaugurated by De Grazia (whose work is properly recognized), 
tells how women, even if discouraged from both studying and working, began to enter 
the male-dominated disciplines and manifested their desire to work and become more 
independent. In the rather hostile and unsupportive atmosphere of fascist 
dictatorship, women writers, instead of being frozen by fear or indecision, showed 
their determination and willfulness by publishing poetry and fiction in literary 
journals, in newspapers or in the successful women press. Pickering-Iazzi admits to 
having been herself taken by surprise by the determination of these writers: ““With . . 
. the especially patriarchal and repressive character of the regime in mind it may seem 
improbable for many readers — as it did for me — that Italian women exercised their 
power as writers to speak of themselves in ways never voiced before” (1). She is 
correct in stressing the novelty of the topics of the short stories selected. First of all, 
they can be considered controcorrente, since their authors, unlike male writers, such 
as Pirandello or Moravia, did not characterize female protagonists as temptresses, 
wives or mothers. They also distanced themselves from some women writers 
contemporary to them, such as Liala, who wrote an exclusively escapist fiction. 
However, the reader should not expect obvious attacks to the fascist dictatorship 
written in bold and self-asserting prose. To be sure, hardly ever can any reference to 
the political situation be found in the narrative. The voice that emerges is soft- 


Annali da’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 365 


spoken, modest, apparently submissive, yet the issues expressed are quite explosive. 

The sixteen short stories are written by Italian women writers. While some of 
them are present in the histories and anthologies of Italian literature, such as Grazia 
Deledda, Gianna Manzini and Ada Negri, others have been erased from any records, 
such as Pia Rimini, Marinella Lodi and Maddalena Crispolti. All these writers, the 
ones admitted to the canon as well as those excluded from it, voiced concerns that are 
extremely relevant today. Marinella Lodi in “Man and Death” tells in the first person 
narrative the story of a thirteen-year-old girl who wants to gain freedom from her 
parents, but is still unable to deal with her own feelings. Her first substantial 
emotional experience takes place during the wake of a deceased family member, when 
her cousin’s husband tries to molest her. “I was the one being humiliated. I was 
suffering. . . . I was alone and in agony” (36). In a somewhat morbid finale, the girl 
confesses that after having been confronted with the rules, power, passions of man 
and death, she prefers the latter. A twenty-year-old girl is the protagonist of 
“Sensitivity” by Amalia Guglielminetti. Arianna is a beautiful girl who has been 
engaged several times but never married because she feels she has always been 
considered an “object,” a mere omament by her partners. When the narrator meets her 
again after two years, she discovers that Arianna is now married to a man who is able 
to love her for her spiritual qualities and is not intimidated by her intellingence and 
sensitivity. In an unexpected dénouement Arianna explains why this man can 
appreciate her for all her qualities but her beauty. In “Fog” Maria Luisa Astaldi, a 
professor of English and American literature, denounces the isolation and 
emargination of a learned woman. She offers a charming portrait of Miss Lucia, who 
is a graceful schoolteacher considered a scatterbrain by the people in her village and 
who has a passion for flowers and the countryside in the tradition of the British 
“spinster” heroines. Miss Lucia’s most intimate wish is to marry and, upon 
encouragement by the mother of her students, she buys the fabric for her wedding 
dress, even though she has no fiancé. Her desire to become socially acceptable 
through marriage leads her only to madness and eventually to death. The dichotomy 
of education or work versus marriage is reinforced by the words of a man of the 
village: “We found piles of books in her house. She read so much she ruined her 
brain” (57). 

These are only a few of the stimulating stories concerned with women’s personal 
experiences, tragedies and losses (one of them is narrated from a male perspective). 
Through their fictional accounts these women writers put forward all those questions 
that some decades later would be developed and discussed by feminists: the pain and 
joys of motherhood, marriage as oppression, escapism through identification with 
fictional characters, and old age. In spite of their modemity and freshness, these 
writings were dismissed as personal by contemporary critics, supporters of the “arte 
pura,” since the universal was in vogue. The sixteen short stories selected were 
published on the cultural page of the nationally distributed newspapers // corriere 
della sera, La stampa and Il giornale d'Italia, covering the period from the mid- 
twenties to the late thirties. They lived, however, a short Indian summer, for although 
they enjoyed the attention of a receptive audience they did not survive the test of time 
and were never republished. Some of the authors were completely cast aside. 

Pickhering-Iazzi’s major achievement is to release these women writers and their 
intriguing short stories from oblivion. Furthermore, in her well thought-out 


366 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


“Introduction” she presents a social and political framework that encourages a new 
perspective on the condition of women in Fascist times. She also raises some vexing 
questions in the “‘Afterword.” According to her, the writings of women in the twenties 
and thirties were suppressed by the postwar critical establishment, namely, the 
neorealistic generation that wanted to do away with any semblance of conservative 
ideology. 

Caught in this double bind (on the one hand the fascist critics accused them of 
naive “autobiographism”; on the other, the neorealistic critics saw in their writings 
only personal and sentimental art whereas they encouraged only committed art), these 
women writers became “unspeakable women.” Through this multi-faceted title, the 
author may be suggesting that these women are subjects that cannot be spoken about, 
and consequently have become unwilling or unable to speak. Yet, even though they 
were by and large omitted from the literary canon, these wniters undermined the fascist 
agenda and through their characters uttered those aspirations and desires that, even if 
suffocated, have been able to re-emerge in recent years and be expressed to a much 
greater extent. 

In spite of the catchy title that intends to denounce the unjust destiny of the 
women writers in the collection, obviously Pickering-Iazzi wants to underscore 
women’s courage and achievements rather than the negative aspects of their 
condition during the dictatorship. The short stories she has selected have as 
protagonists mostly women of the middle class, who usually study, work in offices, 
run small shops, or are well-off enough to have a housekeeper. (The only exception is 
Leila in “Beyond the Labyrinth,” a young woman born outside of wedlock, who works 
in a cotton mill; her mother, however, owns a store and her father makes a good 
living.) Why have peasant and indigent women been left out? Did they not actively 
participate in this ante litteram consciousness-raising, as spectators if not as actors? 
Did they not read those newspapers where the short stories were published, or, more 
poignantly still, were they literate at all? It is true that the women’s press developed 
at this time, but the illiteracy rate among women was still very high, nonetheless. 

In her solid critical introduction, Pickering-Iazzi should perhaps have provided a 
more detailed landscape of the Italian readership in the early twentieth century in 
order to give a more precise historical perspective. She repeatedly insists on the 
increasing popularity of women writers, but her statements are always rather vague: 
“In the varied media utilized by women in the twenties and thirties, more women’s 
texts were being published and read than ever before” (102). When she reveals her 
astonishment at the discovery of so large a number of women writings, her 
information is vague: “I was not prepared to uncover hundreds of short stories written 
by a variety of renowned and popular women authors” (XII). Did Italian newspapers 
offer publications by women in every one of their daily issues? How did these 
publications vary throughout the regime as censorship became stricter and stricter? 

Reflecting on the evolution of Fascist dictatorship leads inevitably to another 
consideration concerning the arrangement of the short stories. Pickering-Iazzi does 
not order them chronologically, as one would expect, although she provides a 
chronological listing of the short stories at the beginning of the book, but arranges 
them according to the age of the protagonists: childhood, adolescence, adulthood and 
old age. According to her, provided with such a structure, each group of short stories 
shares a similar topic, since it is devoted to the same period in life, a somewhat 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 367 


dubious assumption. She describes and justifies briefly this structure in the 
“Introduction” (“This manner of organization was suggested by my reading of 
women’s texts and of writings by Fascist exponents of their time” 15). While this 
arrangement might be more suitable to a collection of short stories by the same 
writer, the editor here could also have analyzed how women writers responded to 
fascism. I could not but wonder whether their themes and interests changed 
throughout the twenty years of fascist rule, or whether their language and style were 
affected by historical changes. 

Pickering-Iazzi emphasizes how women challenged the canon not only through 
concentrating on personal themes but also through the use of colloquial language, 
which their contemporaries often perceived as a lack of stylistic elaboration. In the 
English translation, however, the short stories seem to assume an inaccurate 
uniformity. The style peculiar to each author is often lost, such as the rich and 
elaborate “‘prosa d’arte’”’ of Gianna Manzini or the suggestive “realismo poetico” of 
Grazia Deledda. Another collection of women’s writings, Martha King’s New Italian 
Women: a Collection of Short Fiction, displays the same loss in character and 
freshness of language. In the short story “The Courage of Women” by Anna Banti, for 
example, some disused toscanismi have been translated in a flat contemporary 
English. Thus, the reader is not given the opportunity to appreciate the individual 
style of each author. Nonetheless, these translations are gladly received in the Anglo- 
Saxon world, since they help make Italian women writers, both popular and obscure, 
known to American readers. 

It is remarkable that these short stories have never been published in Italy after 
their first appearance. Thus Unspeakable Women should be an invitation to the 
discovery of books kept on dusty shelves and to continuing research on women’s 
studies. The words of the protagonist in Gianna Manzini’s “A White Cloud” — “My 
mother, me, my little girl . . . : a group, a force” — should invite us to reflect on the 
importance of tradition, solidarity and cooperation among women. 

Tiziana Arcangeli, The University of N. Carolina, Chapel Hill 


Renate Holub. Antonio Gramsci: Beyond Marxism and 
Postmodernism. New York: Routledge, 1992. Pp. 247. 


Renate Holub’s recent Antonio Gramsci: Beyond Marxism and Postmodernism is a 
serious, thoughtful, and optimistic study that seeks to engage Gramsci on the terms 
and in the terminology of recent critical theory. Marxist aesthetics, with a nod to 
political philosophy, forms the unifying thematics that allow Holub to move from 
modernism to the postmodern, from Gramsci to Lyotard and Foucault. With 
remarkable fluidity (and not inconsiderable style) she synthesizes major 
developments in twentieth-century Marxist philosophy and in linguistics, all the 
while keeping literary concerns conspicuous, a rather distinctive characteristic for an 
enquiry of Gramsci. Holub aims to arrive at an “appreciation of the complexity of the 
Prison Notebooks, of Gramsci’s conceptual framework . . . which squarely situates 
him in the context not only of modernist problematics, but also tangentially — 
albeit inadvertently on his part — of some postmodernist problematics as well.” 


368 Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


What results are strategies for responding to, among others, the following: How does 
Gramsci compare to Lukdcs on aesthetic questions? What is the most profitable 
means of analyzing Gramsci vis-a-vis the Frankfurt School? In what way can Gramsci 
illuminate postmodernism? With this kind of backgrounding we learn that despite the 
prodigious number of studies on Gramsci currently available, we still have much to 
learn. 

The study is divided into three parts of unequal length: a brief introductory 
section, followed by “From Realism to Modernism,” and finally the conclusion, 
“Beyond the Modern, Beyond the Postmodem.” The middle section is the longest and 
here Holub’s structuring of the material is altogether original and instructive. The 
sharp and literary focus here yields graceful comparisons between Gramsci and such 
critics as Lukdcs, Bloch and Brecht, and the Russian linguist Volosinov. Manzoni, 
Pirandello, and Dante represent the three vectors of literary concern. Reading 
Gramsci’s Manzoni against Lukadcs’s (Gramsci rejects while Lukacs ultimately accepts 
as historically genuine Manzoni’s condescension toward the socio-economic 
underclass in The Betrothed), Holub persuasively illuminates the intersection of 
Gramsci’s aesthetics with his political agenda. (She also anticipates here the 
transition in the following section to the practice of critical ethics in 
postmodernism.) It is not a question of canonicity for Gramsci so much as one of the 
function of aesthetics in ideology. As Holub says, “To create a democratic future 
meant for Gramsci not to keep insisting on great classical literatures of the past, on 
the great masterpieces of high culture of the western world. Rather, what it meant was 
to understand what the ordinary common people liked to read what they read” (66). 
Unsurprisingly, Gramsci’s entries on Pirandello’s theater in the Prison Notebooks 
reveal a similar set of concerns. In tuming to an analysis of the theater, Gramsci’s 
focus (and Holub’s along with it) is trained to a greater degree on the participatory 
nature of artistic production, as opposed to the more formally structured nature of the 
novel. Gramsci welcomed Pirandello’s thoroughly modern (and modernist) theatrical 
agenda and felt that the plays “rupture and explode the audience’s anticipations by 
introducing an unsettling paradox between ‘normalcy’ and ‘non-normalcy’ which 
resist emotional identification while simultaneously requiring active participation” 
(96). The last chapter in the second part, entitled “Phenomenology, linguistics, 
hegemony” is pivotal, since its concentration on the linguistic component of 
Gramsci’s notes on Dante builds a self-conscious bridge from the modern to the 
postmodern. The juxtaposition of Gramsci to Volosinov is inspired and makes a 
significant contribution to tracking Gramsci’s interest in linguistics from his 
university days to the time of its appearance in the Notebooks. Consideration of the 
full complement of literary genres — prose, theater, and poetry — serves to round and 
complete this section, rendering it thorough indeed. 

Towards its end the study seems a bit truncated. Although no less well-researched 
or documented, the third part lacks the spaciousness of its antecedent, consequently 
making the study seem slightly uncalibrated. Signalling a switch in critical mode 
from one of “production” to one of “information,” which is coeval with the 
postmodern period, is extremely suggestive and may have benefitted from more 
attention. The last section, which stands “in lieu of a conclusion,” is perhaps the 
most challenging, particularly to and for feminist criticism. In this section, an 
exploratory consideration of the intersection between feminism, Foucault and 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 369 


Gramsci, Holub flags the problem of consent, which composes the foundation of 
Gramsci’s and Foucault’s theories of power and hegemony. Holub handily untangles 
the complicated network of state apparatus, domination, exploitation — “power” tout 
court, as delineated in the writings of Gramsci and Foucault. On this count the 
importance of Holub’s contribution cannot be stressed enough; despite the obvious 
connections between them, there are in fact startlingly few analyses made of the 
affinities between Gramsci’s and Foucault’s work. (And of those, it should be added, 
none that might be fitted under a feminist rubric, making Holub’s examination unique 
indeed.) Domination, according to Foucault and Gramsci, is made possible only by 
and with the consent of the dominated. Here Holub seems much more sanguine about 
the possibilities the Foucauldian system yields for feminist issues than do some 
feminist critics. It has been suggested, for instance, that the implications of rape — 
predicated on the absence of consent and the illustration par excellence of the 
irrefutable plight of women in patriarchy — impugn Foucault’s theories and reduce 
the viability his system has for feminism. Might this not also signify in a reading of 
Gramsci’s thoughts on the “woman question’”? 

Antonio Gramsci has much to offer readers of Gramsci who are interested in 
seeing how he bears up under a fin-de-siécle analysis that uses literary topics and 
concems as its criteria. Holub’s prose is always fresh and lean, making it lively and 
engaging reading. Throughout, the notes and bibliography are rigorously thorough 
and current. Antonio Gramsci will appeal to a wide audience, from those who make 
Gramsci scholarship a habit to those interested in seeing how Gramsci might be 
considered while bearing in mind more recent theoretical developments. 


Ellen Nerenberg, Wesleyan University 


Ugo Betti. Il filo verde. Poesie. Ed. Luigi Fontanella. Camerino: 
Mierma, 1993. 


Con le celebrazioni del primo centenario della nascita di Ugo Betti giunge 
all’attenzione dei cultori di poesia una preziosa antologia della poesia bettiana curata 
da Luigi Fontanella, che ha anche scritto l’esauriente prefazione al volume. 

Essa include un’eccellente scelta di liriche tratte da quattro raccolte: // re 
pensieroso (1922), Canzonette. La morte (1932), Uomo e donna (1937) e le postume 
Ultime liriche (1957) coprendo cosi un periodo di ben trenta anni della vita del poeta- 
drammaturgo. In queste poesie trova spicco, sin dagli esordi, uno stile tutto personale 
che al di 1a delle ovvie influenze letterarie del primo Novecento rinviene nella 
fabulazione fresca e spontanea dello spunto fiabesco la norma della pit’ profonda 
aspirazione: “‘Vedi, bambina?/ La notte dai cupi forzieri / ha levato i gioielli /pit belli 
/ es’& ingemmata come una regina!” (‘Le stelle” 20). 

Si afferma cosi, come suggerisce Fontanella nell’introduzione (7), non tanto una 
simbologia interiore quanto una volonta di fantasia che aiuta ]’autore a trascendere la 
brutalita del mondano. La condizione del puer e la sua relativa modalita percettiva 
assumono difatti un ruolo di contrappunto nell’iter poetico ed esistenziale di Betti 
rivelando sostanzialmente un profondo desiderio d’innocenza adamitica. 


370 Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Questa rivendicazione psicologica da cui procede l’autore viene subito a 
confrontarsi/scontrarsi con l’essenza drammatica del contingente riconoscendo nella 
trasfigurazione cosmica di spazio e di tempo il proprio destino di morte: “Ed ecco gli 
astri cadevano, foglie / tetre; il bagliore dei mondi era spento:/ vedemmo i soli e il 
tempo /succhiati, pula al vento;/ li ingoiava, come una notte / che si dilata, la morte” 
(“Canto di operai”, 63). 

Proseguendo in questa direzione, il Betti maturo di Uomo e donna sprofonda 
nell’ambito cosmogonico-metafisico ed alterna ad un diffuso senso di spleen 
esistenziale una speranza visionaria che agogna una reintegrazione cosmica: “Cosi 
tremando sopra / un tenebroso tenero alito passano, / atomi illuminati, i mondi. Da 
essi inquieto, / quasi in ascolto contempla / l’uomo lo splendore creato” (“Vincere la 
morte”, 76). Con questo titolo “Vincere la morte” si rivela, oltre ad un ovvio apporto 
di stilemi onofriani (Vincere il drago @ il titolo di una raccolta di Arturo Onofri del 
1928), l’adesione di Ugo Betti ad un’intensa vocazione poetica che, come 
nell’esempio di Onofri, proietta la problematica etica della quéte dell’eterno nella 
dimensione naturale dell’esistenza. 


Massimo Maggiari, College of Charleston 


Scrittori, tendenze letterarie e conflitto delle poetiche in Italia 
(1960-1990). Ed. Rocco Capozzi and Massimo Ciavolella. Ravenna: 
Longo, 1993. Pp. 224. 


Il volume raccoglie una parte degli atti del convegno, dallo stesso titolo, tenuto 
presso la University of Toronto nell’autunno del 1991, e comprende diciannove tra 
saggi e interventi che affondano colpi di sonda nella non facile “eredita del presente” 
con la quale la letteratura italiana degli ultimi trent’anni sembra circondarci, gia 
chiedendo una sistemazione, un assessment critico che tempi pit prudenti avrebbero 
rimandato alla generazione futura. Dico che é la stessa letteratura a chiedere in qualche 
modo una tale sistemazione perché mi sembra che sia ormai difficile distinguere tra i 
problemi di cui soffre l’istituzione letteraria (comprendente sia la critica che 
l’accademia) e i problemi di cui soffre la letteratura, in particolar modo quella italiana, 
che non sembra si stia avvicinando alla scadenza del secolo nel pieno delle sue forze. 
Se poi la scadenza del secolo importa ancora qualcosa, e non € ancora un pensare per 
categorie temporali “moderne”. Porre l’inizio della postmodernita a quarant’anni fa, 
cioé pil o meno agli inizi dell’eta della televisione e dell’informatica, come fa 
Romano Luperini all’inizio del suo saggio introduttivo (Bilancio di un trentennio 
letterario e ipotesi sul presente), € appunto un pensare in modo ancora “moderno”, 
cioé secondo scansioni temporali determinate da mutamenti strutturali e 
sovrastrutturali riconosciuti da una posterita (cioé noi) a sua volta “creata” da tali 
mutamenti. D’altra parte, obietterebbe Luperini, il fatto di vivere in una condizione 
postmoderna non implica lo sposarne l’ideologia (che @ poi appunto |’indistinzione 
programmatica delle categorie temporali e dei rapporti di produzione). Per Luperini, 
chi sceglie tale ideologia sceglie con cid di essere postmodernista, confinandosi cosi 
in una nebbia epistemologica dalla quale é@ facile cadere nelle grandi trappole 


Annali da’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf S74 


dell’“irrazionalismo”, del “misticismo” o dell’acquiescenza ai correnti rapporti di 
produzione. Ed @ ovvio che Luperini, per conto suo, scelga un approccio critico 
rigorosamente distinto dall’ideologia postmodernista. Ma ci sembra che nella sua 
analisi resti una contraddizione: se la postmodemita non é@ solo un’ideologia (il 
postmodernismo) ma anche davvero una fase nuova (una nuova condizione permessa 
dai fattori sopra menzionati: ruolo dei media e rivoluzione elettronica), come si potra 
giudicarla con una impostazione cosi schiettamente “moderna”? Non é come voler 
giudicare la rivoluzione francese dal punto di vista della monarchia illuminata? Non si 
stanno forse manifestando qua e 1a, proprio grazie alla condizione postmoderna o 
comunque la si voglia chiamare, nuove “figure della coscienza” (per usare un tropo 
classicamente dialettico e che quindi ribadisce fiducia nella storia), che hanno 
bisogno di essere riconosciute nella loro inedita (se @ inedita) fenomenicita? 

Devo lasciare la domanda senza risposta perché questa é una recensione e non un 
progetto di ricerca (e ricerche simili durano una vita). Del resto, non é@ detto che tali 
nuove figure si siano gia manifestate nella letteratura italiana contemporanea, e il 
saggio di Luperini da cui sono partito per questa riflessione € molto chiaro ed 
esauriente nel tracciare in pochi tratti l’involuzione del moderno e 1’evoluzione del 
postmoderno nelle lettere degli ultimi trent’anni. Solo che il suo punto di vista 
rigorosamente anti-postmodernista lo rende a mio parere eccessivamente severo con 
chi aveva davvero cercato di rintracciare delle figure nuove, se non della coscienza 
almeno della letteratura. Dopo aver concluso che Calvino ha rinunciato alla sfida al 
labirinto da lui stesso proposta negli anni Sessanta, Luperini conclude che 
“Y’elevazione del presente ad una superficie aerea e gradevole e questo recupero del 
valore-letteratura come puro piacere”, che si ritroverebbe nelle Lezioni americane, é 
“il segno dell’avvicinamento di Calvino al postmodernismo” (11). Ma forse Calvino 
non aveva rinunciato a sfidare il labirinto. Forse aveva solo concluso che il labirinto 
era cambiato, si era trasformato in una rete luminosa, elettronica, immateriale, non 
per questo meno efficace o a tratti spaventevole, ma che la scrittura doveva affrontare 
con armi adeguate, facendosi agile, veloce e, in una parola gia abusata, leggera. E 
leggero non significa debole: chi é leggero puo rifugiarsi 1a dove 1’artiglieria pesante 
non arriva. Non so se Calvino si stesse avvicinando al postmodernismo. In ogni 
caso, abbiamo il rammarico di non sapere cosa sarebbe stato capace di ricavarne. 

Ho dedicato spazio al saggio di Luperini perché @ quello che da il tono all’intera 
raccolta. Ma ve ne sono altri che aspirano a un discorso panoramico, come La 
narrativa italiana sperimentale del secondo Novecento di Renato Barilli, J] doppio 
movimento della poesia. Sul dibattito intorno alla letteratura in Italia negli anni ‘70 e 
‘80 di Sandro Briosi, e Apocalittici e integrati nell’ industria culturale postmoderna di 
Rocco Capozzi, che chiude il volume. Barilli propone una suddivisione degli scrittori 
italiani degli ultimi trent’anni secondo il registro linguistico da essi scelto (alto, 
medio o basso) concludendo che tra i non numerosi aspiranti al titolo di nipotini 
dell’ingegnere (molti giovani scrittori preferiscono un pit confortevole registro 
medio) forse solo Aldo Busi ha le carte per richiederlo. Briosi vede un pericolo nelle 
tendenze postmoderne verso l’estetismo, il misticismo e il formalismo che si sono 
fatte strada sull’onda della crisi del dopo-sessantotto, e rinviene invece una 
progettualita positiva nel tentativo di elaborare una “scrittura materialistica” che ha 
trovato un punto di riferimento nel Gruppo ’93. Ma se qualcuno tra i nuovi poeti 
italiani fosse davvero un mistico, quella non sarebbe un’accusa, sarebbe un 


372 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


complimento. Senza misticismo o una frequentazione del mistico non ci sarebbe 
buona parte della migliore poesia che abbiamo la fortuna di leggere. L’accusa che si 
pud fare a chi ostenta velleita mistiche @ casomai quella di essere solo un velleitario. 
Del resto Briosi é@ critico troppo fine per non accorgersi che i recenti progetti di 
scrittura materialistica ed allegorica sono ancora troppo progetti e troppo poco 
scrittura, e al termine del suo saggio propone infatti di riconsiderare, accanto al ruolo 
dell’allegoria, anche quello della metafora. Capozzi fa il punto sullo stato del 
rapporto letteratura/industria, facendo notare come esso non Si sia esaurito con gli 
anni Sessanta, ma anzi si sia rinnovato e trasferito nel dibattito sul postmoderno e sia 
poi ricomparso nelle opere dell’ultimo Volponi. Capozzi propone di raccogliere la 
sfida di Volponi al postmoderno, e sostiene che @ ancora compito degli intellettuali 
“organizzare |’industria del postmoderno all’interno della societa consumistica e 
massmediale” secondo una visione critica che non si riveli pero falsamente 
umanistica, ideologica o elitaria (221). 

Gli altri saggi si occupano rispettivamente di Balestrini (W. Anselmi), di Gadda 
(R. S. Dombroski), di Fortini (W. Krysinski), di Sciascia (M. Kuitunen), di 
Manganelli (G. Menechella), di Porta (J. Picchione), di Pazzi (F. Ricci), dell’India 
vista da Moravia e Pasolini (P. Rumble), di Zanzotto (S. Ramat), e di Lamberto 
Pignotti (C. Federici), che @ anche presente come autore di un intervento insieme a 
Biancamaria Frabotta e a Francesco Leonetti. Gustoso il paragone, stabilito da Linda 
Hutcheon, tra il Pendolo di Eco e i cicli di fantascienza umoristica e “olistica” di 
Douglas Adams, e particolarmente stimolante la lettura di Malerba proposta da 
Francesco Guardiani, in cui // protagonista e Le pietre volanti vengono accostati a due 
piccoli classici di un maestro del postmoderno americano come Donald Barthelme (At 
the End of the Mechanichal Age e The Dead Father), in nome di una comune e 
innegabile risonanza macluhaniana. 


Alessandro Carrera, McMaster University 


Gian-Paolo Biasin. The Flavors of Modernity: Food and the Novel. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 


Food in novels is both the same as food in any other context and different from food 
in any other context. “Fables” about food will make sense out of the world and thus be 
central to human culture and the anthropological discipline. For example, alimentary 
taboos and the stories surrounding them are related to conceptual boundaries and 
societal classifications. Lévi-Strauss made the famous observation that food is good 
to think. Food and fantasy are inseparable in some way, and their connections form 
the basis of the alimentary studies of Piero Camporesi, whose works on food have 
been widely translated and reviewed in the United States and have provided an 
important inspiration for Gian-Paolo Biasin. When it comes to literature, the 
fantastic or metaphorical significance of the culinary functions in particular ways. It 
is Gian-Paolo Biasin’s contention that “literary use of food is tropological, inherent 
in the very structure of the culinary sign and of the verbal sign” (20). Biasin teaches 
us that when writers write about food they are also creating a discourse on the 


Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 373 


literariness of their work (11), on metanarrativity (27). This intersection of the 
culinary sign and metanarrativity (or, more broadly, the metapoetic) creates for 
readers of novels the sensation that Biasin terms the “flavor of modernity.” 

Biasin’s volume concentrates on the nineteenth and twentieth century novel in 
Italy. It argues convincingly the importance of the relation innovation/tradition in 
both culinary “genealogy” and the literary text, which in fact incorporates culinary 
genealogy as part of its thematic repertoire and even as part of its internal structure. 
Biasin in his introduction gives us a fascinating account of the importance of 
Pellegrino Artusi’s cookbooks to the Italian national identity, thus introducing the 
notion of culinary hegemonies in the form of “invented tradition.” Camporesi coined 
the term “gustemi” to describe Artusi’s “code of national identification,” and Giorgio 
Manganelli surmised that Artusi’s recipes “gained the housewives’ hearts. . . . And so 
he invaded the womanish, maternal center of the Italian unconscious” (9). Biasin 
frames his literary analysis broadly in that he considers the ideological and 
anthropological significance of food. His gathering of sources from Camporesi to 
Marcel Mauss and Mary Douglas, from Manzoni to Calvino, is formidable. The 
richness lies fundamentally, however, in the rigor of his comparative approach. 

Each chapter deals with a single Italian author, and the chapters are arranged 
historically, yet numerous works contemporary to the foregrounded author are 
brought to bear on the analysis. Each chapter also has a theoretical goal. For 
example, Biasin illustrates how Manzoni uses alimentary connotations to bolster 
realistic descriptions and thus the mimetic function of narrative. There is more to the 
effort for Manzoni than good micro-history, more to it than getting the right foods in 
the right mouths (polenta for the poor, capons for the rich). The narrative function of 
culinary details artfully reinforces particular character traits. Biasin outlines Renzo’s 
lack of appreciation for meatballs and his spare culinary pleasure in one scene which 
contrasts another one where excess reigns. Manzoni gives us various sides to 
Renzo’s character in this way, yet he is also generating a story of conflicts, 
generating the narrative. Food gives the narrative a pattern. Culinary discourse in 
Manzoni functions to narrate class conflict, since famine plays a large part in the 
narrative of J promessi sposi and is juxtaposed to the anthropological mythologem 
which represents the “Land of Cockaigne” or “Cuccagna” (31). In general, food 
references aid Manzoni in his indictment of an overbearing nobility which reduces 
meals to “mere occasions for displaying power, reaffirming hierarchies, preparing 
abuses, and demonstrating arbitrariness” (38). 

While the same kinds of statements might be made about Giovanni Verga’s / 
Malavoglia, the texture of that novel differs radically from Manzoni’s J promessi 
sposi. Biasin finds that the alimentary referents in Verga contribute to a “textual 
weaving that has little to do with realism” (47). Although the repetition of culinary 
signs gives the narrative a rhythm, their arrangement is “modernist” because 
alimentary referents tend to take on metaphorical meanings which are so carefully 
woven as to become virtually poetic. Verga’s use of alimentary signs is specifically 
Symbolist in its creation of a paradoxical “impersonal” language which creates 
reverberating voices meant to be archetypal (51). The alimentary semantic area tends 
in general to metaphorization and the rhetorically refined. The sea which “devours” 
fishermen is one such creation in Verga (48). 

Comparisons multiply over three central chapters as Biasin takes up the case of 


374 Annali @’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Gabriele D’Annunzio and uncovers the fact that the protagonists of /1 piacere do not 
eat much, or better that D’Annuzio does not describe their eating much, opting for the 
symbolics of tea ceremonies and in general the contact of liquids and lips, mouths and 
tears. The characters do some biting into oranges, for instance (“mordevamo la polpa 
succulenta come si morde il pane’), yet how different the connotation of the sign 
“orange” is from the figurations found in Vittorini’s Conversazione in Sicilia, where 
eating an orange is an act of ravenous desperation born of a citrus glut (63). Oranges 
are all there is to eat and there is no money for any other food. Gastronomy and 
sensuality occupy Biasin’s analysis of Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa’s /1 
Gattopardo. Biasin uncovers there a fusion of the lexical areas of eros and food which 
drives home Lampedusa’s notions of class and national “wisdom.” Carlo Emilio 
Gadda’s accumulations of food structures in Quer pasticciaccio brutto de via Merulana 
functions in such a way that “‘accumulation (of clues, proofs, causes) is the supporting 
structure . . . of the entire police investigation (which is a cognitive inquiry) 
throughout the novel” (96). 

Biasin’s reading of food and its metaphorical constructs reaches its apex in 
chapter 6, on Italo Calvino’s Sotto il sole giaguaro. He traces with method an 
internal development within Calvino’s novels based on alimentary discourse, 
looking at fantastic inventions such as the lunar milk in the Cosmicomiche and the 
impersonal but telltale kitchen in “Se una notte . . .” He writes: “I shall focus on all 
the primary functions of food that the story analyzes, from the satisfaction of desire 
to the possibility of transgression, from the narrative sign to the cognitive tool used 
to outline the problematic relations among self, others, and the world (or among 
subject, nature, and history)” (98). It turns out that the theme of incorporation is 
crucial to Calvino’s entire corpus so that “gastronomy fuses anthropology and 
eroticism within itself, while the underlying discourse probes the nature of literature” 
(98-99). It is Biasin’s contention, and he supports it brilliantly, that Calvino 
attempts to represent an attitude to the world which is “less arrogant and violent than 
logocentrism” (116). Ironically, it is through an analysis of cannibalism as it 
appears in Sotto il sole giaguaro that Biasin makes his case that such an attitude has 
to be related to a certain sense of the sacred, and even to a “gourmet appreciation of 
human flesh” (Biasin is quoting Peggy Reeves Sanday on divine hunger), a kind of 
self-awareness and a sense of morality about the relations of self and other. 

Hunger demands a chapter of its own in this volume on food in the novel, and 
Biasin couples hunger and the concentration camp in his final chapter on Primo 
Levi’s Se questo é un uomo. Not too surprisingly, his attention must tum to the 
dehumanizing aspects of Nazi camp policy, the turing of men into beasts who “feed” 
rather than eat. This final chapter hints at Biasin’s own moral discourse about food. If 
the human/beast duality underlies discourse about food, may not dehumanizing 
discourse underlie more of our daily life than we may imagine, even playing a role in 
intolerant behaviors we have yet to recognize in ourselves? He leaves us wondering 
not only about such contemporary phenomena as “Eurocuisine”’ but also about the 
great shifting of cycles and patterns in ordinary life in contemporary society. 


Keala Jewell, Dartmouth College 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 375 


Centro Internazionale di Studi Lombardi. Lo scrittore Carlo Emilio 
Gadda moralista lombardo: dall’ambiente familiare d’origine alla 
fortuna della sua opera in Europa. Oggiono: Edizioni_ del 
C.E.1.S.L.0., 1994. Pp. 181. 


Il presente volume raccoglie gli Atti del Congresso su Carlo Emilio Gadda tenutosi 
nell’ottobre del 1993 a Santa Maria la Vite-Olginate. I] lavoro propone, in maniera 
originale e stimolante, un approccio critico all’ermeneutica gaddiana attraverso una 
serie di interventi volti ad esplorare l’evolversi problematico della poetica dello 
scrittore lombardo. 

In queste pagine infatti, come si evince chiaramente gia dal titolo stesso del 
libro, si percorre un itinerario all’interno di una polarita diacronica che si definisce 
appunto tra 1 limiti opposti dell’“eden dell’infanzia” (7) fino a raggiungere una 
“dilatazione oltre l’esistenza” (7). Un’analisi dunque pregevole, ma allo stesso tempo 
ambiziosa, che tenta di interpretare la complessita della scrittura gaddiana cercandone 
i motivi e le dinamiche di fondo nell’ambito di una dimensione spazio-temporale che 
parte dall’esplorazione minuziosa ed attenta dell’ambiente familiare d’origine per 
arrivare alla fortuna della sua opera in Europa. 

I primi interventi propongono percid, grazie anche al materiale inedito fornito 
dai familiari dello scrittore, una serie di elementi chiarificanti relativi alla formazione 
culturale e morale di Gadda ed all’influenza che l’ambiente natio ebbe nell’evolversi 
drammatico della sua tormentata personalita e nel definirsi complesso della sua 
scrittura. I] saggio di Giuseppe Podesta rievoca, ad esempio, la figura intellettuale ed 
umana di due personaggi del parentado gaddiano — Carlo Testori De Capitani e 
Giuseppe Gadda — cercando di mettere in risalto quanto la loro attiva partecipazione 
nel sociale ed il loro impegno politico e civile durante il Risorgimento, costituiscano 
in effetti un punto di riferimento determinante ed imprescindibile nella formazione 
culturale ed artistica dello scrittore. Se da un lato Giovanni Antonio Osnago Gadda 
esamina, inoltre, attraverso l’esplorazione geografica dei luoghi natii — prestando 
particolare attenzione alla villa di Rogeno — le eventuali concatenazioni tra la 
serenita stimolante di quell’atmosfera solitaria e le ispirazioni creative dell’ artista, 
Giuditta Podesta ravvisa invece nelle relazioni ‘a livello affettivo e semantico” (29) 
di Carlo Emilio con la sorella Clara e la cugina Luisa “la linea sublime dei rapporti 
dello scrittore con la famiglia al femminile” (29). L’ineludibilita di tali connessioni 
semantiche tra la poetica gaddiana e le sue tormentate vicende esistenziali trovano 
un’ulteriore elaborazione critica nell’analisi freudiana di un passo del Pasticciaccio 
proposta da Elio Gioanola che si sofferma in particolare su “quell’autentica metafora 
ossessiva” (71) della scrittura gaddiana rappresentata dal topazio. 

In questo ambito risultano anche molto stimolanti le osservazioni di Carlo 
Vigand che offre degli interessanti spunti di ricerca, grazie ad un’attenta 
interpretazione lacaniana del “dolore” di Gadda; secondo 1’autore del saggio infatti lo 
scrittore riesce, proprio tramite il suo lavoro e la sua produzione poetica, “a 
soggettivare e quindi a trasformare una condizione di sofferenza” (65). Interpretazioni 
queste che inducono il lettore a riflettere ulteriormente sulla complessita dell’opera 
gaddiana e sulle difficolta interpretative di una scrittura che vede convergere in 
maniera multiforme “plurilinguismo”, “visualita” (159) e “incompiutezza”, nel 


376 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


tentativo costante di definizione di una poetica che rappresenta le conflittualita e le 
contraddizioni irrisolte dell’essere. 

In questa prospettiva é forse pit facile capire allora la problematicita di fondo 
insita nella traduzione del Pasticciaccio, data appunto “la molteplicita dialettale 
gaddiana” (90), giustamente evidenziata nelle pagine di Josep Julia Ballbé, oppure 
spiegarsi la difficolta di ricezione dell’opera di Gadda nelle regioni di lingua tedesca o 
in quelle di lingua francese di cui parlano rispettivamente nei loro interventi Andreas 
Altenhoff e Jean Paul Manganaro. Anche Diego Zancani denuncia ne] suo saggio una 
situazione quanto meno “difficile” per quanto concerne la fortuna dell’autore sia in 
Gran Bretagna che negli Stati Uniti, mentre Anna Maria Epifani definisce senza 
esitazioni Gadda “‘scrittore non avvicinabile, poco accessibile ai pit” (154) e quindi 
“straniero” anche nella scuola italiana. 

Si ripropongono quindi in queste pagine, attraverso l’analisi attenta e suggestiva 
svolta dai numerosi interventi — di cui non mi é possibile per ovvie ragioni di spazio 
elaborare le singole intuizioni critiche ma che si presentano in ogni caso ricchi di 
interessanti suggerimenti e proposte di ricerca — quelle che sono le tematiche 
portanti che hanno caratterizzato la tradizione critica gaddiana. Se si parla spesso di 
un Gadda “barocco” e dell’“incompiutezza necessaria” (120) della sua opera @ proprio 
perché, come osserva giustamente Giuditta Podesta, “il ritmo aperto a carattere 
paradossale connota il barocco in contrapposto alle strutture chiuse, in sé perfette e 
armoniche, che corrispondono allo stile classico” (168). 

Gadda dunque visse in maniera conflittuale e drammatica il suo confronto col 
reale ed é per questo che il “non finito” della sua poetica se da un lato riflette la presa 
di coscienza dolorosa di una frammentarieta inevitabile dell’oggetto, trova pero, allo 
stesso tempo, nella satira sofferta della scrittura, la volonta disperata e caparbia del 
soggetto di cercare nel rapporto umano con “l’altro” un ordine universale e fuori dal 
tempo. 


Vincenzo Binetti, The University of Chicago 


Carol Lazzaro-Weis. From Margins to Mainstream: Feminism and 
Fictional Modes in Italian Women’s Writing, 1968-1990. 
Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1993. Pp. 223. 


Carol Lazzaro-Weis’ From Margins to Mainstream is a comprehensive, theoretically 
sophisticated and valuable study of the intersection of feminist theory and 
contemporary Italian women’s writing. Lazzaro-Weis focuses in particular on the 
relationship between generic structures and the fiction of Italian women writers. The 
author points out in the introduction that Italian feminists of the sixties and 
seventies at first rejected the concept of genre as the domain of a male-centered 
literary criticism. More recently women writers have come to exploit generic 
traditions common to male authors. In particular Italian women writers have turned to 
the romance, the Bildungsroman, the historical novel, and detective fiction. Lazzaro- 
Weis devotes a chapter to each of these genres. She demonstrates that women writers 
do not use the traditional generic forms to tell the same stories as men but exploit 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 377 


these forms to “express their gendered viewpoints on the form’s inherent themes” 
(xvi). The readings of women writers’ use and exploitation of generic structures are 
preceeded by two theoretical chapters. These give a general overview of feminist 
debates in the United States, France and Italy. 

In Chapter One the author provides a critical overview of feminist debates over 
the role of experience, the subject’s agency, the relationship between feminism and 
deconstruction, and the issue of what is “salvageable” of deconstruction from a 
feminist perspective. At the end of the chapter the author considers the relationship 
between literary structure and writing by women. The ease with which the author 
passes from Kristeva to Irigaray, from Muraro to De Lauretis, from Culler to 
Lentricchia, is impressive and at the same time dizzying. Towards the end of this 
chapter I began to question the relationship between the theoretical debates under 
discussion and the Italian women writers to be studied. Indeed, I was happy to 
discover that in Chapters Three through Six many of these theoretical questions are 
integrated into the close readings of individual writers. 

In “Separatism in Literature and Politics,” Lazzaro-Weis returns to one of the 
most crucial questions addressed by feminist theorists: whether the feminist project is 
to integrate women’s writing into the literary canon or rather to assert its status as 
“separate but equal.” The author draws upon American and Italian feminist theory to 
consider the advantages and disadvantages of the two strategies in the case of Italian 
women writers. She distinguishes between the consequences of separatism in the 
publishing sphere and in the domain of literary criticism. Lazzaro-Weis correctly 
observes the possible dangers of fighting for a more inclusive canon, an approach 
which “still reinforces the image of the woman writer as the unseen, self-sacrificing 
collaborator in a predominantly male enterprise” (36). The discussion of literary 
separatism is followed by a historic overview of Italian feminism and its 
distinguishing characteristics. The author cites the “pragmatic relationship of theory 
and practice,” the questioning of the juridical concept of emancipation, and the debt 
to liberation theology as characterstic features of Italian feminism. I found the 
discussion of the practice of affidamento or entrustment to a symbolic mother to be 
particularly useful. The author is sensitive to the power of affidamento at the same 
time that she recognizes the inherent danger of a practice that may empower the 
(symbolic) mother while it disempowers the daughter. 

In Chapter Three the author shows how romances by Italian women writers 
exhibit a disjunction between the characters’ ideas and their actions. “The romance 
convention of hidden mediators forces the protagonists to deal with questions of how 
to contend with differences among women” (89). The author relates this convention 
and its feminist manifestations to Italian theories on sexual difference and 
affidamento. In Chapter Four Lazzaro-Weis points out that the female Bildungsroman 
has been perceived by feminist critics as less restrictive and more open to 
reinterpretation along feminist lines. Feminist studies have shown how the female 
Bildungsroman rejects the genre’s characteristic message of accomodation to society. 
Lazzaro-Weis proceeds to situate Bompiani’s Mondanita, Lilli’s Zeta o le zie and Di 
Maggio’s C’era una volta un re in the context of feminist reinterpretations of 
growing up female in Italy. Occasionally there is a suggestion that the novels under 
discussion are somewhat mechanical dramatizations of feminist theory. On the 
whole, however, Lazzaro-Weis convinces the reader that the texts in question are 


378 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


informed by feminist theory without becoming dogmatic. 

In the final chapter the author focuses on one of the literary genres to which 
Italian women writers are turning with increasing frequency: the historical novel. The 
author directly links the recourse to the historical novel genre to increased emphasis 
on women’s history in Italy during the eighties and to the enthusiastic reception of 
the projects of such historians as Joan Kelley, Joan Scott and Natalie Zemon-Davis. 
The chapter centers on how differing representations of history, destiny and causality 
have shaped narrative responses to the changing Italian literary, philosophical and 
social context. Lazzaro-Weis shows how Manzoni’s concern with the historical 
novel genre and his rejection of “any synthesis of historical and poetic truth” (125) 
is countered by Italian women writers. Writers like Morante, Bellonci and Banti “see 
history as a humanly made tyrannical force which can only be displaced through the 
affirmation of a poetic imagination” (133). 

Carol Lazzaro-Weis’ From Margins to Mainstream is an extremely informative 
and perceptive work. This study, together with Santo Arico’s Contemporary Women 
Writers in Italy, has convinced me of the advantage of theorizing Italian women’s 
writing in a category of its own. Lazzaro-Weis convincingly demonstrates that 
Italian women writers have appropriated the generic structures of a male-dominated 
literary tradition and tumed them effectively to their own purposes. 


JoAnn Cannon, University of California, Davis 


Italiana IV. Literature and Society. Ed. Albert N. Mancini, Paolo 
Giordano, and Enrico Pozzi. West Lafayette, IN: Bordighera Inc., 
1992: 

Dopo aver dominato la scena critica per decenni, gli studi socio—letterari hanno 
ceduto via via il passo ad altre metodologie e approcci ermeneutici, fino ad essere 
quasi relegati ad un ruolo minore rispetto al crescente interesse per criteri tesi ad 
analizzare l’opera letteraria non necessariamente in diretta relazione con il contesto 
storico-sociologico. Questo processo di riduzione di un campo di studi che, a tratti, 
era parso forse l’unico metodo attuabile nel panorama critico italiano, é€ certamente da 
collegarsi anche al fatto che il connubio fra sociologia e letteratura, in Italia, era 
stato spesso collegato pit ad un’ideologia socio—politica che non ad un metro 
meramente socio—culturale che comprendesse anche la prima, senza perO esserne 
totalmente condizionato dalle inevitabili crisi ideologiche dovute ai vari 
ripensamenti politici seguiti ai mutamenti sociali ed economici degli ultimi 
vent’anni. Se in Italia ed in Europa in genere la lezione socio—letteraria é tuttavia 
sempre restata attiva e dinamica per quantita e qualita, negli Stati Uniti, ove il mondo 
accademico per sua Stessa struttura é aperto a soluzioni nuove e dinamiche, il calo 
d’interesse é@ stato forse pili vistoso, e le tematiche e le modalita sociologiche sono 
state incanalate pili verso altre discipline (la linguistica, ad esempio) che non verso la 
letteratura. Al tempo stesso, non sorprende che, in virti di un maggior distacco e di 
una minore partecipazione emotiva ai problemi ideologici che intrecciano sociologia 
e letteratura, in questi ultimi tempi provengano proprio dagli Stati Uniti iniziative di 
rilancio di un tale metodo critico, ormai emancipato dalle polemiche degli anni ’50- 


Annali d’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 379 


60. 

Frutto di una di queste operazioni @ senz’altro quella che ha spinto alcuni studiosi 
nord—americani e italiani a riunire, con il titolo di Literature and Society, i saggi che 
compongono il quarto numero di /taliana. Questi interventi, dieci in tutto, 
attraversano un arco cronologico che dal Rinascimento arriva ai giorni nostri e 
offrono, in chiusura, tre proposte pertinenti alla sociologia in quanto tale: le prime 
due, di Enrico Pozzi e Consuelo Corradi, pit teoriche; |’altra, di Vincenzo Padiglione, 
atta a sondare nel vivo dell’opera di un autore (Rocco Scotellaro) la funzionalita 
dell’apparato teorico. Data la loro natura specialistica, penso valga la pena partire 
proprio da questi ultimi scritti, in particolare da quello di Pozzi, il quale, sotto il 
titolo di "Retoriche della sociologia”, rimeditando sull’attuale crisi della disciplina, 
ricorda come questa crisi abbia aperto la strada per ribaltare i termini del rapporto fra 
sociologia e letteratura. Dalla “sociologia del testo letterario” si é passati, in questi 
ultimi anni, a considerare il “testo sociologico come ‘letteratura’”, cosi che la 
sociologia della letteraura finisce per assumere “la sociologia stessa come ‘testo’ da 
scandagliare attraverso l’uso combinato degli strumenti della sociologia e della 
‘critica’ letteraria” (163-64). Questo fa si che lo stile "“intersoggettivo”, 
scientificamente neutro (peraltro anch’esso, proprio per la sua riconoscibile 
specificita, portatore di tropi retorici), si cominci a contraddistinguere per variazioni 
e contaminazioni stilistiche prima improponibili. Uno slittamento che, come nota 
acutamente Pozzi, é esso stesso indice della crisi di una disciplina che, attraverso la 
propria “‘perdita di centro stilistica ed epistemologica”, manifesta con dolorosa 
consapevolezza l’innegabile “perdita di centro delle nostre societa” (174). 

Condividendo le tesi sostenute da Pozzi, Consuelo Corradi, nel saggio 
“L’argomentazione del ragionamento scientifico: Emile Durkheim”, ribadisce come 
solo ad una lettura superficiale la scrittura sociologica si delinei su un piano 
tendenzialmente univoco. La studiosa, nel rileggere un classico della sociologia come 
Le Suicide di Durkheim, ne individua un modello da seguire non tanto per le superate 
conclusioni scientifiche, quanto per l’originalita con cui Durkheim @ riuscito a 
combinare le tre dimensioni proprie della ricerca sociale: la dimensione retorica che 
inventa e argomenta i quadri concettuali, la dimensione logica che li sottopone a 
convalida empirica e la dimensione teorica che formula proposizioni generali (193). 
Di qui la conseguente proposta che alle strutture argomentative indispensabili alla 
saggistica sociologica, si affianchino — e come parte essenziale della metodologia 
— anche le figure e i processi retorici necessari ad evidenziare e a comprovare le tesi 
ipotizzate. 

Dall’analisi di un testo sociologico si passa all’interpretazione dell’opera e del 
sistema di uno scrittore/ricercatore quale Scotellaro, “un antropologo, diremmo oggi” 
(197), come asserisce Padiglione nel suo “Osservatore e osservato: problemi di 
conoscenza e rappresentazione. La vicenda Scotellaro”. Padiglione mette in rilievo 
come la ricerca di Scotellaro, basata su un genuino intreccio di solidarieta di classe, di 
lavoro intellettuale e di impegno etico, s’imperni su un metodo esistenziale in 
costante e cosciente bilico fra scienza sociale e letteratura, fra coinvolgimento 
biografico (ed emotivo) e ricerca oggettiva. Un metodo ed una filosofia di vita e di 
lavoro messe a confronto con altri intellettuali alle prese con il mondo contadino, su 
tutti Carlo Levi, al quale — come allo stesso Scotellaro — sfuggirebbe “il nuovo 
nesso sociale che unisce operai e contadini” (218), ma dal quale Scotellaro si 


380 Annali d@’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


distanzia per la creazione di un “metacodice” che mira a colmare il tradizionale gap 
comunicativo fra la cultura d’élite e la subalterna cultura meridionale. 

A queste analisi pill tipicamente sociologiche, fanno da battistrada una serie di 
interpretazioni critiche aperte da uno studio su “Gioco e conversazione nella societa 
rinascimentale” di Emilio Speciale. Attraverso una convincente analisi di testi- 
chiave (Decameron, Cortegiano, il Gonzaga secondo di Tasso e altri scritti del secolo 
XVI), Speciale, forte dell’esempio di saggi classici sull’argomento quali quelli di 
Huizinga e di Caillois, tratteggia l’importanza socio-culturale nelle sue varie 
dimensioni pedagogiche (il gioco come regole della conversazione 0 come stimolo 
agonistico) e antropologiche (il gioco come specchio di vita individuale e pubblico) 
per l’alta societa rinascimentale. Ma non si pensi che |]’intera societa cinquecentesca 
possa giudicarsi alla luce del suo amore per l’aspetto ludico della vita: Speciale, 
infatti, conclude la sua carrellata con un trattato anonimo del 1768 in cui il gioco é 
illuministicamente criticato come un futile passatempo proprio delle classi 
aristocratiche. 

Dal Rinascimento e dalle discussioni sul gioco si passa a rivalutare il ruolo della 
satira nella poesia secentesca (“La poesia senza pubblico. Teoria, scrittura e 
diffusione della satira nel primo Seicento”’) in un saggio in cui Antonio Corsaro 
giustamente rivendica la vivacita della cultura del secolo XVII, soffermandosi su due 
correnti satiriche operanti a Roma e a Firenze. Due scuole stilisticamente distinte, ma 
di cui Corsaro rimarca i notevoli tratti in comune e, soprattutto, lo stretto contatto 
politico e culturale, ben maggiore di quanto si sia pensato in passato. Lo studio di 
Franco Manai (“Letteratura e ideologia: dai contadini di Nievo ai paesani di Capuana’’) 
é dedicato al lento processo di maturazione ideologica e culturale della letteratura 
ottocentesca rispetto alle classi contadine. Manai mostra come dalle considerazioni 
teoriche di Nievo, che denuncia l’ipocrita ed utopica popolarita dei prodotti letterari 
consumati solo dai ceti alti (forse riprendendo ed accentuando in chiave socialmente 
pil avanzata uno spunto gia del Manzoni giovane; si veda, ad esempio, la lettera del 9 
febbraio 1806 al Fauriel), si approdi con Capuana ad una rappresentazione del mondo 
campagnolo finalmente scevro sia del sentimentalismo rusticano che del 
compiacimento satiresco presenti nella letteratura romantica. 

Sempre alla fine dell’800 si verifica un altro fondamentale mutamento socio— 
culturale: 1’emergere di una letteratura e di un pubblico femminile. Un fenomeno che, 
come sottolinea Anna Santoro (“Narrativa di fine Ottocento: le scrittrici e il 
pubblico”), pur restando nei confini di una letteratura tradizionale e pur accettando i 
dettami di una cultura ostile e spesso misogina, @ certo servito a sensibilizzare 
l’opinione pubblica (cioé del pubblico) nei confronti del punto di vista femminile, 
anche e, forse, soprattutto in virtu della realistica concretezza dei soggetti di molti di 
questi romanzi. 

Proiettati nell’era contemporanea gli interventi di Mark Pietralunga e di Maria 
Carla Papini. Pietralunga (“The Emotional Deterioration of an Ordinary Man: Luciano 
Bianciardi and the ‘Miracle’ Years in Milan”) percorrono l’opera di Bianciardi in 
prospettiva sociologica, ribadendo come lo scrittore maremmano sia stato uno dei 
primi (e pochi) autori che, a partire dalla Vita agra (1962), si sia opposto con 
veemenza alla massificazione culturale seguita al boom economico. Una 
massificazione e mercificazione cui, come ben documentato nel saggio, non resta 
estraneo neppure lo stesso intellettuale che, titanicamente, vi si oppone. Ad un altro 


Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 381 


scrittore attento e sensibile al mondo del potere economico, Paolo Volponi, é rivolto 
il saggio della Papini (“Le mort saisit le vif: a proposito di Le mosche del capitale di 
Paolo Volponi”). Partendo dall’individuazione di una duplice fonte Foucalt-Borges, 
cui Volponi pare essersi ispirato sin dal titolo, la studiosa svolge una fine analisi del 
romanzo che é visto come una specie di summa del conflittuale rapporto fra Volponi 
(per anni, come si sa, dirigente dell’Olivetti) e le alte sfere dell’industria. Chiamando 
in causa altri lavori dello scrittore e con un occhio alla chiara traccia autobiografica 
che si profila nel romanzo (o “non—romanzo”, strutturato “senza trama né personaggi 
né protagonisti” per significare l’assoluta impossibilita di modificare il sistema 
sociale che “regge la logica e il meccanismo del potere” 155), la Papini mette in luce 
il disperato messaggio di Volponi per cui, “proprio come animali, gli uomini 
insensatamente si agitano, tragici insetti intorno ai rifiuti della loro perduta umanita, 
mosche, appunto, Le mosche del capitale” (161). 

Se si é lasciato per ultimo il saggio con cui Remo Ceserani discute del traumatico 
ma prolifico rapporto fra le “Trasfomazioni sociali della modemita e l’immaginario”, 
prendendo ad esempio l’impatto del treno nella civilta ottocentesca, @ per la natura 
comparatistica e teorica di questo intervento che riassume le tesi esposte in un libro, 
Treni di carta, edito nel 1992 dalla Marietti. Soffermandosi su concisi ma 
significativi esempi di come I’irruzione del treno abbia modificato e/o sconvolto la 
visione intellettuale di primo ottocento, Ceserani dimostra come il treno, da 
strumento di modernita tecnologica, diventi uno strumento di modernita letteraria, 
favorendo, con la sua straniante velocita, i primi accenni di monologo interiore, 
come constatato nel caso di Dombey and Son di Dickens. Interessante, inoltre, la 
breve disanima delle varie metafore e tematiche suscitate dall’impatto fra treno e 
letteratura (e arte), un’analisi che va ben oltre la pura indicazione di massima, per 
configurarsi come una direttiva metodologica nell’invito a tener presente gli elementi 
strutturali del treno come parte dell’analisi critica, 1a dove esso sia funzionale al 
racconto. A questo proposito va ricordata l’acuta osservazione che il Ceserani svolge 
sulla costituzione del treno come proiezione antropologica della normale vita 
stanziale di tutti 1 giorni (73-74). 


Andrea Ciccarelli, Indiana University 


Millicent Marcus. Filmmaking by the Book: Italian Cinema and 
Literary Adaptation. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1993. xiv + 
313. 


From the 1950s to the 1980s, the study of film adaptation was dominated by literary 
critics who approached film as if it were just another narrative medium. Not 
surprisingly, academic studies in this vein tended to privilege the literary source over 
the filmic text and to deal primarily with the question of the film’s ‘“‘faithfulness” to 
the literary “original.” While many journalists continue to reflect this traditional 
approach in their film reviews, the academic study of film has become more 
sophisticated. The remarkable proliferation of film studies in recent decades has 
contributed to a more precise critical vocabulary and has required that academic critics 


382 Annali da’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


who deal with film become fluent in a wide range of theoretical and critical discourses. 

Reflecting the maturation of critical approaches to film adaptation and 
contributing to its further sophistication, Millicent Marcus’s Filmmaking by the 
Book provides a series of stimulating “close readings” and highly perceptive visual 
analyses of ten postwar Italian films, two films by each of the following auteurs: 
Visconti, De Sica, Pasolini, the Taviani brothers, and Fellini. All ten of the films 
discussed stem from narrative works and in one way or another foreground their 
relationship to a literary antecedent. The individual films receive an extensive critical 
treatment, which, in many if not all instances, is further enriched by Marcus’s 
considerable knowledge and deft syntheses of the germane literary criticism. Moving 
across a wide terrain that encompasses film scholarship, film theory, literary 
criticism and even North American film journalism, Marcus offers valuable insights 
into the films under consideration. She surrounds each neorealist and post-neorealist 
text with a remarkable wealth of information. Most importantly, she deepens our 
understanding of the films and the filmmakers through her ability to bring to the 
surface the varied forces at play in the complex process of film adaptation. 

Filmmaking by the Book opens with an introduction that seeks to “negotiate the 
terms” informing current discussion on film adaptation, which, in the past decade, 
has moved beyond the traditional restrictive parameters of “fidelity analysis.” 
Because the readings that follow are organized into chapters that treat each film 
individually as a separate instance of the encounter between film and literature, 
Marcus does well to provide an introduction that establishes the rationale for a book 
consisting of what might be considered disparate elements. The introduction surveys 
the historical development of Italian film and literary interactions and summarizes 
the theoretical problems surrounding adaptation. Marcus deserves praise for her clear 
synthesis of the theoretical and critical strains that have “rescued adaptation study 
from the reductiveness of fidelity analysis by providing vocabularies devoid of any 
built-in preference for one medium over another” (24). The theoretical part of the 
introduction moves convincingly toward Marcus’s own approach, which privileges 
“the concrete level of cinematic practice with each adaptive encounter” (24). Here and 
throughout the chapters that follow, Marcus demonstrates a thorough familiarity with 
current theoretical concerns as well as the ability to apply them fruitfully to 
individual texts. 

While the theoretical component of the introduction prepares the ground for 
Marcus’s own eclectic approach to film adaptation, the historical aspects of film 
adaptation alluded to in the introduction remain underdeveloped, for the most part, in 
the discussions that follow. The author’s assertion that the book deals with “the way 
in which adaptation operates within the evolving context of Italian film culture as a 
whole, and within the context of an individual filmmaker” (3) raises expections of a 
more thorough analysis of the historical dimensions of Italian film adaptation. 
Marcus recounts the reception of each film, situates the films within an historical 
context, and analyzes the individual filmmaker’s pronouncements and practice 
regarding adaptation. She does not, however, gather her findings into a broader 
pattern. While the author may indeed be right to war of the danger of “replacing 
fidelity analysis with a single theory,” this reader would have welcomed a conclusion 
that would have reflected upon and drawn together the critical insights of the 
preceding chapters. By the same token, Filmmaking by the Book does not attempt to 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 383 


compare and contrast the five filmmakers with each other and does not seek to link 
the individual chapters. In fact, Marcus states at the outset her preference for “seeing 
how adaptation works within the corpus of an individual filmmaker’s production” (x). 
She is persuasive when she points out that adaptive strategies will vary greatly even 
within the career of an individual filmmaker. Given her emphasis on difference and 
discontinuity, however, as well as her understandable reluctance to construct “an 
abstract model for literature-film comparisons” (x), it is not surprising that she falls 
short of achieving her stated goal of treating “adaptation . . . within the evolving 
context of Italian film culture as a whole” (3). Rushing to her defense, however, I 
hasten to add that the lack of a conclusion, and the absence of an overarching 
narrative tracing the historical development of film adaptation in the postwar period 
may be more indicative of present lacunae in Italian film scholarship than a failing 
on her part. Mindful of the paucity of historical criticism dealing with adaptation, it 
may be unfair to expect any individual scholar to draw broad conclusions. In any case, 
Marcus has taken us farther with regard to adaptation in postwar Italian cinema than 
anyone previously and we can appreciate the considerable merits of this work as it 
stands. 

It might also be argued that while the auteurs chosen for inclusion are indeed, in 
some sense, “exemplary postwar Italian filmmakers,” not all of the films treated are 
exemplary postwar Italian films. De Sica’s La ciociara (Two Women), for example, as 
well as his Giardino dei Finzi-Contini, are not among his best or most memorable 
films, at least in my estimation. They are, however, available for screening in this 
country, lend themselves very well to a discussion of adaptation, and consequently 
are perhaps frequently taught in Italian film courses. My point is not to denigrate 
these two films by De Sica nor am I unappreciative of Marcus’s engaging 
interpretations of these particular works. Rather, I wish to observe in closing that 
while film scholars may question the focus on certain films rather than on others, and 
may remain desirous of a more ambitious study with greater historical breadth, the 
high quality of Marcus’s critical performance renders such questions moot in the final 
analysis. Filmmaking by the Book is a welcome addition to the study of film 
adaptation, constitutes a decisive step forward in Italian film scholarship, and 
provides a convenient tool for classroom use. 


John P. Welle, University of Notre Dame 


Dana Gioia. Can Poetry Matter? Essays on Poetry and American 
Culture. Saint Paul: Greywolf Press, 1992. Pp. xiiii and 258. 


Walt Whitman, writing his essay “Democratic Vistas” in the opening decade of the 
Gilded Age of U.S. culture, asked why, in the United States of 1871 circulating “rivers 
and oceans of very readable print, journals, magazines, novels, literary books, 
‘poetry,’ efc.,” his nation could accurately be said at the time of his essay to “possess 
no literature at all.” 

The answer to Whitman was plain: the failure after the Civil War of American 
poets to meld aesthetically the conscious of the individual literary artist with the 


384 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


collective unconscious of the national audience. “The problem of humanity all over 
the civilized world is social and religious,” Whitman wrote, “and it is finally to be 
met by literature.” This future consummation within U.S. poetry was devotedly to be 
wished, Whitman declared. “The priest departs, the divine literatus comes.” 

Now, after nearly a century and a quarter of published U.S. verse since the 
issuance of “Democratic Vistas,” Dana Gioia asks: What priest? and what 
communicants? Whether the creation and enjoyment of serious poetry can survive in 
the late twentieth-century America only among the “specialized minority readership 
that now sustains poetry as a highly sophisticated verbal game or secular religion” 
(40) is the crux on which Gioia hangs his questioning title. In answering this 
question, Gioia specifically examines in separate chapters the accomplishments of 
sixteen U.S. and Canadian poets, a majority of whom were first published in the 
decades following World War Two. 

In Gioia’s judgment, published poetry in the U.S., in the post-war decades 
composed largely by professional teachers of creative writing, has become “just 
another profession where the important issues are jobs, reputations, classroom 
hours, and promotions” (65). Not only has U.S. poetry become credentialed; worse, 
in Gioia’s judgment, it has become compartmentalized in its audience. Just as God has 
long ago departed most late twentieth-century U.S. poetry, so too has the substantial 
audience of “the general reader on whom both Samuel Johnson and Virginia Woolf 
felt the vitality of literature depended — the intelligent, engaged non-specialist” 
(xii). 

Gioia enumerates the resulting paradox. Despite the unprecedented 
multiplication of degree-granting creative writing programs across U.S. colleges and 
universities producing an estimated 20,000 newly credentialed poets by the turn of 
the century; despite the millions of U.S. dollars in public and private grants endowed 
to support individual poets and small literary presses; despite the average total of 
about one thousand new titles of poetry published in the U.S. each year (Whitman’s 
“rivers and oceans of very readable print”) fewer Americans each year are giving any 
serious attention to poetry (1-2, 6-7, 10). Poetry in the U.S. does seem fated to 
become by the end of this century just another cult of a dying Apollo, worshipped 
mainly by the hierophants of the Associated Writing Programs — a few, like the 
PBS poetaster Robert Bly, with at least one eye open for a chance to become a media 
celebrity. 

Yet it is impossible to become the first member of an American working-class 
family to have published books nationally or to have achieved substantial success in 
business — and Gioia has done both — without participating at least to some extent 
in the Whitmanesque optimism of an America where most small towns still possess 
excellent free libraries and the reward of individual effort is at least believed to be still 
possible. Gioia shares partially in Whitman’s optimism that in the U.S. great poets 
and great audiences ("great” in the sense of both popular and sublime) will inevitably 
find one another. In two of the sixteen essays treating individual poets, Gioia praises 
at length Weldon Kees and Ted Kooser, both of whom will perhaps achieve the larger 
audience Gioia believes they deserve; and in a long essay “Notes on the New 
Formalism” preceding the individual studies, Gioia also finds much to praise in this 
young generation of formalists, who, in revising meter, rhyme, and narrative within 
their poems, “reject the specialization and intellectualization of the arts in the 


Annali d@’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 385 


academy over the past forty years and affirm the need for a broader popular audience” 
(40). 

The New Formalists are to Gioia the distant descendants from “a time, so 
different from our specialized modern era, where there was little, if any, distinction 
among poetry, religion, history, music, and magic.” In that meter-rich, pre-glyphic 
era, “[t]rained poet-singers took the events and ideas a culture wanted to preserve- 
tribal histories, magic ceremonies — formulated them into meter, and committed 
these formulas to memory. Before writing, the poet and the poem were inseparable, 
and both represented the collective memory of their culture” (33). 

This is heavy rhetoric to place on the slender poetic shoulders of such currently 
celebrated New Formalists as Brad Leithauser, of whom a representative poem is a 
recounting of his prowess at teaching tennis to suburban housewives (“Two Summer 
Jobs”); or on Marilyn Hacker, who published rhymed verse on the difficulties of 
traveling in France or sustaining a love affair while remaining a single parent: “What 
does a girl do / but walk across the world, her kid in tow. .. .” 

This self-indulgent voice also expressed in print by many other New Formalists 
keeps them rhetorically from assuming the vatic power which Gioia wishes for them, 
and which earlier formalist poets in some works possessed. Although Gioia 
elliptically distinguishes the New Formalists from earlier U.S. formalist poets (40, 
100-01), he ignores the absence in New Formalist verse of what Allen Tate isolated as 
the “tension” of poetics. This absence of tension, which is occasioned by the 
necessity of forcing an idiosyncratic vision into the accepted and received forms of 
one’s culture, perhaps explains the New Formalists’ lack of skill in handling impure 
thymes, hovering accents, and sprung meter. All are exigencies of the individual poet 
attempting to place a personal vision into an objective form; the successful poem 
resulting from this tension is both a part of, and apart from, the society into which it 
comes to life, even as Whitman’s Leaves of Grass gains its tensile strength both from 
the desires of Whitman’s individual libido and his more public desire to become a 
great prophetic voice in nineteenth-century America. 

By contrast, New Formalism, anecdotal and personal in content, too often 
settles rhetorically for a pointless sight-rhyme or a lax enjambment of the 
pentameter, both shown in the excerpt above from Marilyn Hacker’s “Mythology.” 
Despite the promise Gioia sees in New Formalism to revive poetic skill as an 
expression of the literary and the communal consciousness, Gioia concedes that 
“[s]ince 1960, the only new verse forms to have entered the mainstream of American 
poetry have been two miniatures: the double dactyl and the ghazal, the latter usually 
in a dilute unrhymed version of the Persian original” (37). Neither lends itself to 
trained poet singers attempting to preserve tribal memories. 

But however one may disagree with Gioia’s conclusions, he has the virtue of 
stating his important question passionately and consistently. His arguments are 
wonderfully clear of cant or academic toadying; and at a time when many prominent 
critics of literature profess not to be able to define “poetry” at all, he persistently 
asks why we are less sure of our judgment than were Tasso or Lucretius. We live, like 
Tasso or Lucretius, in an age of flux; and perhaps the most virtuous critic is not the 
one who remains true to an answer, but, like Dana Gioia, remains true to his question. 


David Robertson, Pendleton, South Carolina 


386 Annali da’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Franco Ferrucci. Nuovo discorso sugli italiani. Con il Discorso 
sopra lo stato presente dei costumi degl'italiani di Giacomo 
Leopardi. Milano: Mondadori, 1993. 


In this dual volume Ferrucci’s “New Discourse on the Italians” precedes Leopardi’s 
“Discourse on the Present State of Italian Customs,” a work whose pessimism and 
sense of moral challenge it shares. Leopardi’s text (usually dated 1824, though 
Ferrucci allows for a later composition) includes the extensive marginalia (in italics) 
and Ferrucci’s many footnotes. 

Leopardi in his mid-twenties harbored strong feelings about his countrymen. The 

theory of customs he developed was based on observed forms of social discourse in 
the Italy he knew; he had not yet been to Naples, Venice, or even Milan where his 
ideas about Romanticism were circulating. After the Congress of Vienna and in 
response to Madame De Stael’s essay, the interest in other European literatures and 
cultures had been raised. Yet, writes Leopardi, Italians continued to write and speak of 
themselves in unflattering terms, though foreigners generally did the opposite. The 
author of the patriotic “All’Italia” has already turned against the idea of national unity 
(though prudently he did not excise the early poem from his Canti). 
According to Leopardi, Italy lacks genuine “society” and “conversation”; “opinion” 
seems alive only insofar as it is performance, voluble and unreliable: in specific, the 
scoffing insult (dileggio) and verbal fencing of which Italians are the masters. Rather 
than respecting other person’s self-love and self-respect, in Italy the most important 
conversational talent is the ability to show “scorn towards others, to offend as much 
as possible their self-love” (127). The abysmal state of Italian society, and therefore 
Italian “life” and “action” in the 1820s, leads Leopardi to conclude that, in order to 
confront the maximum evil, which is indifference, reason dictates that one adopt a 
“un pieno e continuo cinismo d’animo, di pensiero, di carattere, di costumi 
d’opinione, di parole e d’azioni’122. At the same time Leopardi denounces the 
cynicism required in Italy, the art of insult and mutual derision: “I] persiflage degli 
altri € certamente molto pit fino, il nostro ha spesso e per lo pit del grossolano .. . 
ma con tutto questo io compiangerei quello straniero che venisse a competenza e 
battaglia con un italiano in genere di raillerie” (126). 

Though the term persiflage might suggest the positive value of teasing to 
pressure an individual to recognize his error for the sake of the common good, 
Leopardi intends only its negative value of a derision by which the mocker seeks to 
cover his own defects and inferiority complex. He sees its institutionalization in 
Italy as resulting in a culture of egotism and misanthropy, and an unending cycle of 
damage and falseness. Though these problems are universally human, due to its 
customs Italy — led in this by its upper class — is the most cynical of nations. The 
fact that Leopardi’s argumentation of this theory is often contradictory is due, says 
Ferrucci, to his youth, to the emotional charge behind his opinions, his rancor 
against Recanati and the reality of his isolation. (As Leopardi notes, though solitude 
is necessary for overcoming boredom and nurturing the imagination (152), it is also 
socially harmful [102].) The often paradoxical conclusions on the Italian character 
derive from Leopardi’s reasoned rejection of the moder tendency to depend on 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 387 


reason, vis-a-vis the ancient predilection for nature, feeling and instinct. 

Leopardi’s materialist philosophy of sensism is consistent throughout the 
essay, though, as Ferrucci is careful to note, his debts to “enlightenment” thinking 
do waver when it comes to his theory of illusion, and his defense of the “ancients,” 
who had not yet abandoned imitation of nature, vis-a-vis the “moderns” overburdened 
by thought, reason, and self-imitation. In the Europe of the Restoration, viewed from 
an Italy which for Leopardi corresponded to the State of the Church, a fundamental 
distinction is drawn between northern and southern Europeans. The latter, due to their 
greater “warmth” and susceptibility to change, are more gravely affected by the 
onslaught of mechanical coldness of the modern world. By restricting “conversation” 
to the public space, the cafés and theaters, what results in Italy is “una pura e continua 
guerra senza tregua, senza trattati, e senza speranza di quartiere” (130). Though 
inconsequential in itself, the overall effect of this “war” is devastating to the national 
character and morale: catastrophe and national unhappiness infects the worlds of 
literature, journalism, theater, public and private conversation. Though egoism and 
misanthropy exist universally, Italy is the European nation with the most deprived of 
moral foundations. 

Leopardi’s essay contains its most meaningful points, says Ferrucci, in its 
discussion of mockery or insult, typical forms of interchange having their origin in a 
national lack of self-respect. Ferrucci’s essay builds on several of Leopardi’s ideas It 
establishes at the the outset that being Italian means acknowledging that things are 
different in Italy and that they break down due to disorganization and preventable 
human error. The Italian accepts this state of affairs (“‘cosi vanno le cose in Italia’) 
with a display of chagrin, while not suffering overly. By doing so he expresses his 
love of country, a love ostensibly greater than that of other nationals. At the same 
time he escapes the inertia and entropy of civic life by being clever (“‘furbo”), by not 
being taken in. Those who suffer overly from the fault of inefficiency and chronic 
dissimulation are considered gullible and awkward by their compatriots (indeed the 
Anglo-Saxon concepts of honesty and truthfulness translate with difficulty). If one 
finds this position untenable, one is out of sync with the tendency to eschew 
“seriousness” for the sake of theater, to reject private conversation for the sake of the 
mask, to prefer a high-minded transformism, with its concomitants of derision and 
lying. In Italy a lie is to be read as a lie, and thus taken in good faith. The mockery 
and theater of daily life are thus signs of life in the national conscience. 

After his introduction Ferrucci presents a foreshortened panorama of the literary 
tradition, and first of all the three corone of the Trecento. Dante is named as the 
initial figure of exile, who had the ability to “transmute a forced exile into a 
voluntary exile” (16) and began, with his invectives, the practice of speaking ill of 
Italy. Ferrucci accepts Dante’s political views, interpreting them in the current 
context as a support of one world government that would effectively abolish war 
between nations. After Dante, Petrarch created the figure of the internal exile, whose 
destiny “é contrassegnato dalla solitudine a casa propria, dall’incomprensione degli 
altri, dalle mille difficolta da cui ci si trova circondati, dal livore e dall’invidia dei 
mediocri” (18). Boccaccio in tum formed the figure of the “gran signore” or “VIP,” a 
kind of intermediary between the common person and the powerful, as later found in 
Castiglione’s Courtier and Machiavelli’s Prince, itself essentially “the portrait of an 
actor” (33). (The 18th century saw the word “‘les italiens” become synonymous with 


388 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


“actors.”) During the counter-reformation one found the Jesuit phenomenon of 
“nicodemismo,” “the art of lying for a good end” (30), a hypocritical embrace of 
procedure and theatrical-liturgical ritual. After the counter-reformation the Italians 
emerged listlessly as the guardians of the world’s art, the curators of a dusty realm of 
the dead. Goldoni’s Arlecchino servitore di due padroni provided us an attitudinal 
portrait of the reluctant Italian, a superficial liar who through his cleverness escapes 
the deceits of others; Ferrucci ties this case to the lackluster spiritual character of 
Manzoni’s Renzo and Lucia. The general sense of a diminished Italy sets in motion 
the nationalist reaction of the early 20th century, a kind of “collective therapy” (38) 
indebted to d’Annunzio, without whom Italy “maybe would not have entered into 
World War I” (37). This carries forward into the paroxysms of the fascist era. The 
same phenomenon is seen to exist in the current psychology of “pentitismo,” a 
means of extolling oneself by accepting blame, traceable to the rite of confession: 
“E un’altra strategia di penitenza che curiosamente garantisce a chi vi é soggetto una 
forma di superiorita morale verso chi non ha commesso gli stessi errori” (61). The 
world of Italian soccer, said to evenly divide Sunday between Church and national 
consciousness, has become a kind of “shadow government” that provides the illusion 
of unity and “a continuity of tradition” (63) that the government itself is unable to 
provide. The third member of the emerging trinity is the television, a medium which 
in Italy is “hot” (not cool, as in McLuhan’s theory) and in which the figure of the 
mediator come to life in an unprecedented way. Thus if the characteristic mode of 
Italian acting is a scoffing mockery in which the “local” prevails over the “universal” 
(65), soccer and television provide perfect venues for its realization: “l’arte di punirsi 
attraverso il divertimento” (67), “la pantomima della mediocrita” (69). 

Ferruci argues that in Italy, unlike in ‘advanced societies,” “power” leads to a 
diminishment of social guarantees. He asks: Who, in the mind of the Italians, has the 
power? Answer: Those who ask the questions, and specifically the questions one is 
forced to answer. He notes how this power has transferred from the politicians to the 
journalists and the “investigators of crimes against the cosa pubblica” (23). In 
general, one may say, in Italy the “mask is in power” — Mussolini being the most 
obvious case in point. Fascism was the tragic conclusion to the Italian form of 
cynicism centered on ridicule in the public space, to the utter lack of private 
conversation denounced by Leopardi. The political face of this cynicism is 
transformism, 2 strategy of coopting one’s foe’s positions so as to disable him and 
remain in a position of advantage. 

The positive value given to slyness, the contradictory love-hate feeling toward 
one’s country, the isolationism and insistent localism, the ritual of deriding one’s 
peers (and accepting the same from them), combines to form a complex of 
uneradicable customs, a forma mentis dependent on the “mask,” on the duplicity of a 
mock communication that the foreigner finds hard to understand yet must accept as a 
coherent system. Ferrucci adopts Leopardi’s idea that Italians do not “converse,” 
besieged by a form of egoism, misanthropy and xenophobic privileging of their 
Italianness over their universal humanity. Curiously the university offers no 
protection but is a “un complesso labirintico di mediatori e di intermediari” (25), 
where one writes self-heroifying testaments of one’s own exclusive, intricate, and 
solipsistic world. The dissipation of Italy’s unique artistic patrimony is an even 
graver concern, evident in the irreversible physical degradation of artifacts, 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 389 


monuments, and cities. 

Ferrucci does, however, offer a ray of hope in conclusion. If and when the 
Italians stop reproving themselves by saying “cosi vanno le cose in Italia,” the 
“reign of death” in which Italian culture has sunk may come to an end. To retum to 
Leopardi: Though the sociological situation has changed “radically” from that he 
observed, his prophetic vision has been verified: the moder death through excess of 
reason has prevailed, also in Italy. Yet his view of the Italian genius, rooted in 
“immobilism” and resistance to the “chaotic development of modern societies” may 
still contain the seed of a moral recovery, suggests Ferrucci. If the Italians, who have 
been “forced to play bad parts” (78), are to regain the spiritual fullness of their 
patrimony they must find conviction in the roles they play, and convert their attitude 
from one of transformism, cynicism, and misanthropy to one of a steadfast and 
serious singularity of purpose, the risk of sincerity. 


Thomas E. Peterson, University of Georgia 


Paolo Rossi. Paragone degli ingegni moderni e_ postmoderni. 
Bologna: Il Mulino, 1989. 


Nel confronto tra gli antichi e 1 moderni é nato fin dall’umanesimo il mito della 
perfezione assoluta dell’antichita; a questo mito e alla venerazione per |’antichita da 
esso provocata si accompagna la paura del nuovo. L’abbandono delle sicurezze e delle 
guide e la stessa capacita di guardare il mondo con gli occhi sgombri da pregiudizi, 
scrive Rossi, appaiono legati alla rivoluzione scientifica. Si tende troppo spesso a 
dimenticare che se i moderni scoprirono un Nuovo Mondo, essi hanno anche visto la 
scomparsa di un altro mondo, quello che vedeva la Terra al centro dell’universo. II 
cielo che per lunghi secoli appariva imperturbabile ai mutamenti in quanto sede del 
divino appare ai moderni come luogo di profonde trasformazioni e corruzioni. I] 
cosmo di Aristotele, di Agostino e di Dante scompare per sempre per lasciare spazio a 
un mondo privo di centro, senza limiti nel tempo e nello spazio. E questo senso 
dell’infinito che spiega le nuove forme dall’architettura barocca, con la sua estetica 
dell’illimitato, che nella pittura si esprime con la rinuncia all’ordine armonico del 
quadro e nella poesia con |’irrompere di forme liberissime, metaforiche e polivalenti. 
La rivoluzione scientifica introdusse insomma, accanto al venir meno del mondo del 
pressapoco, anche la scomparsa delle certezze e delle spiegazioni totalizzanti, una 
visione pil’ drammatica degli esseri umani. La mancanza di unita del sistema, la 
multipolarita del vero si esprime anche nella filosofia dell’eta barocca per esempio in 
Giordano Bruno, con la sua viva e dinamica consapevolezza dell’infinito, o in 
Tommaso Campanella, nel cui pensiero coesistono diversi sistemi filosofici. 
Campanella é un esempio tipico di pensiero multipolare segno dell’inquietudine del 
tempo. Egli avverte la necessita di risolvere le contraddizioni tra lo spirito del 
Rinascimento e quello della nuova scienza pur senza riuscire nel suo intento. II secolo 
barocco trova la sua pil’ complessa espressione in un filosofo come Leibniz e si 
concludera poi con Vico, che viene ricordato anche da Paolo Rossi. Ma anche in Vico 
si mantiene quella multipolarita sistematica che era tipica del barocco, cosi come 


390 Annali d’italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


rimane in lui il senso del limite rappresentato dalla presenza della morte, uno dei temi 
favoriti dalla cultura barocca. Proprio in questi aspetti va ricercata la modernita di 
Vico che rappresenta un potente antidoto alla visione limitata e limitante che vede le 
radici della modemita nel solo illuminismo. 

Tutto questo quadro delle conseguenze della rivoluzione scientifica che si 
manifestano ampiamente nel mondo barocco é esattamente |l’opposto della stereotipa 
visione del mondo moderno introdotta dai teorici del postmoderno come Gianni 
Vattimo nel suo La fine della modernita: nichilismo e ermeneutica nella cultura 
postmoderna (Milano, Garzanti, 1985). Per Vattimo il moderno é il luogo delle 
certezze e delle “spiegazioni totalizzanti del mondo” e della “fede in una potenza 
sconfinata dell’uomo sulla natura” e della “fede nell’illimitato superamento degli 
ostacoli naturali” (48). Le caratteristiche del moderno sono fatte emergere da una 
supposta essenza della tecnica che svela i tratti propri della metafisica e 
dell’umanesimo: questo sarebbe il culmine e 1’inizio della crisi dell’umanesimo, 
inteso come parte e aspetto della metafisica, che si esprime nella definizione 
dell’uomo come soggetto. I] soggetto, scrive Vattimo, é@ oltrepassato in quanto é un 
aspetto del pensiero che dimentica ]’Essere a favore dell’oggettivita e della semplice 
presenza. Per Paolo Rossi la visione dell’epoca moderna che emerge dalla pagine di 
Vattimo non vale molto di pit di quella che si ritrova nelle immagini di un “Oscuro 
Medioevo” o di un “Luminoso Rinascimento”. Si tratta di una visione in bianco e 
nero e di affermazioni che “sono a stento accettabili nella parte storica delle guide 
turistiche”. E questa, insomma, la prospettiva di un “Piccolo Bignami” che proietta 
sull’intera modemita l’immagine di un positivismo di maniera (15.) L’accento di 
Rossi cade sull’ambivalenza del mondo moderno e di tutta la storia umana che sempre 
oscilla tra l’esaltazione e l’incertezza. In questo contesto la pubblicazione del 
Sidereus Nuncius di Galilei che rivelava al mondo l’esistenza di nuove stelle segna una 
svolta che agisce non solo nel senso di un’esaltazione della tecnica e delle possibilita 
umane nei confronti della natura, ma anche in quello, esattamente opposto, della fine 
di tutte le certezze su cui gli esseri umani avevano costruito fino a quel punto la loro 
esistenze. Questo appare evidente anche nella poesia di quel periodo, per esempio in 
The First Anniversary di John Donne. 

Rossi critica la fondazione filosofica del postmodernismo nella sua versione 
heideggeriana. Da una parte egli mette in evidenza come la filosofia di Heidegger si 
sia trasformata in un discorso inattaccabile fondandosi sull’immagine del filosofo 
come “Pastore dell’essere”, sulla separazione tra sacro e profano e fra “ontico” e 
“ontologico”. In Heidegger pud cosi venir meno il concetto di verita che in quanto 
auto-manifestazione dell’Essere pud essere solo un orizzonte di senso privo di valore 
pratico o estetico. La derazionalizzazione della verita, sottratta al pensiero riflessivo 
e affidata al pensiero poetante o rimemorante, non produce secondo Rossi una verita 
debole, ma la scomparsa della nozione stessa di verita, e questo appare possibile solo 
in una visione, quale quella heideggeriana, fortemente elitaria ed aristocratica, 
inaccessibile al senso comune, fondata su di una concezione mitologica di 
un’originaria sapienza riposta e di un’inarrestabile decadenza storica nel mondo 
umano dominato dalla metafisica e dalla tecnica. Nei teorici contemporanei la 
postmodernita diventa il mondo della “fine della storia”, della debolezza e della 
pietas, il mondo in cui la stessa filosofia diventa letteratura e si trasforma in estetica 
dal contorno autoconsolatorio. In realta, il pensiero debole appare a Paolo Rossi una 


Annali da’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 391 


“sottospecie dell’antiilluminismo forte”, privo di quella dignita filosofica che egli 
riconosce ad Heidegger. Quello che appariva come l’unico limite imputabile alla 
filosofia di Heidegger, e cioé l’aver affermato una inesistente essenza della modemita, 
diventa nei teorici contemporanei della postmodernita il punto di partenza e di arrivo, 
di un pensiero dell’immobilita che si esaurisce nelle cosidette “diagnosi epocali’”, 
inventandosi epoche unitarie, come la modernita, che non sono mai esistite. Allo 
stesso modo anche il “nichilismo” o la cosidetta “ragione classica” che avrebbero 
dominato il mondo fino all’epoca postmoderna non sono altro che miti, 0, per usare 
una terminologia cara ai postmoderni, “grandi narrazioni”, “spiegazioni totalizzanti 
del mondo” costruite da filosofi attraverso operazioni semplificatorie. Lo stesso 
Heidegger del resto non si é@ liberato completamente degli aspetti peggiori della 
tradizione metafisica che sperava di oltrepassare, anzi vi ha contribuito, sostituendo, 
come ha scritto Rorty, all’argomentazione filosofica l’apertura all’Essere e la ricerca 
del Sacro astratto dalla vita concreta ( R. Rorty, Conseguenze del pragmatismo, 
Milano, Feltrinelli, 1986, pp. 80-82). I] filosofo nell’heideggerismo viene cosi ad 
autoidentificarsi narcisisticamente come la figura oracolare capace di svolgere 
diagnosi epocali, riducendo in questo modo la filosofia al discorso e alla scrittura, 
dimenticando che la filosofia é prima di tutto esercizio, un esercizio connesso alla 
vita. La filosofia, come ha scritto recentemente Carlo Sini, se vuole continuare a 
essere tale mantenendo il carattere di ethos politico che le attribuiva Platone, senza 
confondersi con l’episteme enciclopedica o con il discorso poetico-letterario, non 
deve abbandonare il sapere storiografico e neppure |’abito tecnologico che fonda la 
nostra civilta, ma esporsi alla domanda sul senso delle operazioni che costituiscono 
il nostro sapere. Del resto la stessa questione della verita non si risolve dicendo che ci 
sono molte verita, perché in questa maniera il problema della verita viene aggirato a 
favore di una passiva accettazione dell’esistente. L’ermeneutica contemporanea 
appare a Sini come una teorizzazione ideologica che non mantiene la radicalita della 
domanda filosofica sulla verita e si riduce ad una traduzione in chiave poetico- 
letteraria del pensiero filosofico. Detto in altri termini per Sini rimane necessario 
porre la questione del soggetto, che poi @ la questione stessa della filosofia, 
recuperando in questo modo l’eredita di Husserl, cancellata da Heidegger. La 
conclusione di Paolo Rossi é in qualche modo analoga 14 ove ricorda, citando L. Ferry 
e A. Renaut (Heidegger et les modernes, Paris, Grasset, 1988), che ]’antiumanesimo e 
la critica del mondo moderno inteso come “mucchio di macerie” sono incompatibili 
con il “minimo di soggettivita” che rimane comunque necessaria perché resti 
possibile il pensiero democratico. Del resto, come ha scritto Agnes Heller, fino a 
quando continua la fiction della fine o dell’inizio di qualcosa la filosofia @ viva e 
recalcitrante: “The narratives of the end of the subject are extremely strong 
statements about both personalities and subjects. In fact, the narrative encapsulate 
worlds according to those contemporary philosophers. They are subjects; moreover 
they are representative subjects. The less we want them to be representative subjects, 
the more they become one. Not even philosophers can jump over their own shadows” 
(A. Heller, “Death of the Subject?” Can Modernity Survive? Berkeley: University of 
California Press, 1990, p. 78). 


Massimo Lollini, University of Oregon 


392 Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 


Brief Notices 
Edited by Massimo Maggiari, College of Charleston 


Etica cristiana e scrittori del Novecento. Ed. F. M. Iannace. Stony 
Brook: Forum Italicum, 1993. 


The following scholars contributed to this volume of essays: Ferdinando Alfonsi, “Tl 
destino in Silone: da oscura forza a visione serena” (9-14); Carmine Di Biase, “Il 
cristiano in ricerca: Mario Pomilio critico e scrittore” (23-38); Giuseppe Di Scipio, 
“Religion and Death in J! Gattopardo: A Meditation Through Montaigne” (39-60); 
Cinzia Donatelli Noble, “Prospettive religiose in Cesare Pavese” (61-68); Mario 
Gabriele Giordano, “Il pessimismo cristiano di Mario Pomilio” (69-76); Florinda 
Iannace, “Scrittori cattolici e critica marxista” (77-92); Emanuele Licastro, “La 
quintessenza di Pirandello e Betti” (93-100); Franco Manescalchi, “Condizione 
esistenziale ed etica cristiana nell’opera di Margherita Guidacci” (101-104); Rosa 
Berti Sabbieti, “Ricordando Margherita Guidacci” (105-106); Margherita Guidacci, 
“Autoritratto critico” (107-114); Jean-Jacques Marchand, “Etica cristiana nella 
letteratura dell’emigrazione italiana in Svizzera” (115-129); Umberto Mariani, “Il 
motivo letterario del Processo a Gesu” (129-138); Gaetana Marrone, The Staging of 
Cavani’s Galileo: The Historiographer’s Art” (139-146); Walter Mauro, “Dall’io al 
noi: la poesia di D. M. Turoldo” (147-160); Maria Nicolai Paynter: “Il grande male e 
l’ostinazione della fede nella poesia di Turoldo” (161-176); Carmelo Mezzasalma, “La 
religiosita nell’opera di Renzo Ricchi” (177-192); Mario Mignone, “L’Allegria 
ungarettiana come ricerca della parola sacrale” (193-202); Alfonso Procaccini, “Neo- 
Realism: Within and Beyond Ethics” (203-220); Riccardo Scrivano, “La Grazia e le 
Opere. Metamorfosi di un modello: Bernanos, Lisi, D’Arzo, Pomilio” (221-234); 
Bartolomeo Sorge, “Altare vuoto di Rodolfo Doni” (235-239). 


Studi d’italianistica nell’Africa australe 6.2 (1993) 


This issue contains the following articles: “L’Africa segreta di Massimo 
Bontempelli” by Fulvia Airoldi Namer (4-22); Pasolini’s “Archaic Primitive”: a 
Poetic Rebirth” by Kim Gardi (23-35); “Moravia — viaggiatore nella preistoria” by 
Jorn Moestrup (36-50); “Poesia e politica nell’Africa di Erminia Dell’Oro” by Grazia 
Sumeli Weinberg (51-70). 


Franco-Italica 2 (1992) 


This issue contains the following articles: “L’Inconscient italien de la France” 
by Pierre Blanc (1-4); “Quelques considérations sur l’image” by Jean Burgos (5-8); 
“L’Image de I’Italie dans la conscience nationale frangaise contemporaine” by Paul 
Guichonnet (9-16); “L’Italie comme terre d’ identification: les trois escales italiennes 
de Bourlinguer ou le triangle onirique” by Jacqueline Bernard (17-34); “Images et 
imaginaire de |’Italie chez Jean Paul Sartre” by Sandra Teroni (35-48); “André Pieyre 


Annali a’ italianistica 12 (1994): Italian Bookshelf 393 


de Mandiargues et ses mystéres d’Italie” by André-Alain Morello (49-70); “Yves 
Bonnefoy e I’Italia. I] pathos dell’interpretazione” by Giovannella Fusco Girard (71- 
78); “Yves Bonnefoy e I’Italia. Pothos e creativita” by Anna Maria Tango (79-90); 
“Cryptes et vergers: l’Italie de Jaccottet” by Aline Bergé (91-108); “Le Miroir de 
Milan: Aragon dans son ‘Voyage d’Italie’ by Olivier Barbarant (109-116); “L’Image 
de 1’Italien dans les encyclopédies Larousse de 1861 4 1939” by Colette Berger- 
Capalbo (117-124). 


Cuadernos de filologia italiana 1 (1994) 


The following scholars contributed to this volume of essays: V. Grasso, “In limine”; 
M. Gil Esteve “Presentacién"; N. D. Arutiunova, “Metafora: enfoque linguistico”; M. 
C. Barrado, “Icono, indice, simbolo, en La spada del sole (de Palomar) de Italo 
Calvino”; V. Diaz-Corralejo, “Funcién alegérica de una comparacién de La Divina 
Commedia”; C. Ferruci, “Due sguardi dal cosmo: Pirandello e Leopardi”; G. Guidotti, 
“Lingua e persone nel Marescalco dell’ Aretino”; C. Lépez Cortezo, “Bases para una 
restauracion del Canto V del Jnferno”; M. Mazzoleni, “Concordanza ed effetti di senso 
in quattro tipi di periodo ipotetico: fra semantica e pragmatica”; N. Messina, “Due 
contributi alla lettura di Vincenzo Consolo tra ecdotica e Quellenforschung”; M. 
Muzzioli, “La demistificazione crepuscolare”; M. Rodriguez Fierro, “Lirica e narrativa 
in Conversazione in Sicilia di Elio Vittorini”; R. Scrimieri, “El péndulo de Foucault o 
los limites de la interpretacién”; P. Valesio, ““Zooma”; D. Alonso, “Il delitto di 
Gongora verso la poesia italiana”; J. Arce, “La lengua de Dante en la Divina Comedia 
y en sus traductores espafioles"; A. Bocchini, “L’editoria italiana in risposta alla 
crescente domanda di lingua italiana e alla luce delle convenzioni per la 
certificazione”. 


Symposium. A Quarterly Journal in Modern Foreign Literatures. 
47:2 (1993). Pp. 168. 


Founded forty-seven years ago, Symposium publishes essays dealing with modern 
foreign literatures. Volume 47:2 (1993), subtitled “Considerations on Italian 
Literature,” contains the following essays: Augustus Pallotta, “Symposium Then and 
Now: The Italian Dimension”; Paolo Cherchi, “Onomastica e colori nel XX canto 
dell’Adone; Gustavo Costa, “Ugo Foscolo’s Europe: A Journey from the Sublime to 
the Romantic Humor”; Franco Ferrucci, “Leopardi e il mondo moderno”; Antonio 
Illiano, “From Gray’s Elegy to Foscolo’s Carme: Highlighting the Mediation and 
Sublimation of the ‘Sepulchral’; Albert N. Mancini, “Translation Theory and Practice 
in Seventeenth-Century Italy: The Case of the French Novel”; Olga Ragusa, “Literary 
Relations: France and Italy in the Late Nineteenth Century.” Review by JoAnn 
Cannon: “Stefano Tani, // romanzo del ritorno. Dal romanzo medio degli anni 
sessanta alla giovane narrativa degli anni ottanta. Bibliography by Augustus 
pallotta: “Italian Subjects Published in Symposium since 1946. 


394 Books Received 


Books Received 


Accademie e biblioteche d'Italia 61.4 (1993). 

Ankli, Ruedi. Morgante iperbolico. L’iperbole nel Morgante di Luigi Pulci. 
Biblioteca dell’“Archivum romanicum”, ser. 1, 252. Firenze: Olschi, 1993. 
Pp. 427, 

Annali di Ca’ Foscari. Rivista della Facolta di Lingue e Letterature Straniere 
dell’ Universita di Venezia 22:1-2 (1993). 

Anonimo. La rassa a bute. Dramma in lingua leccese. Edizione critica, 
traduzione e commento a c. di Mario Marti. Galatina: Congedo, 1989. Pp. 
147. 

Avonto, Luigi. La Sierra de la Plata y otros ensayos. Historias de italianos en el 
nuevo mundo (1492-1550). Montevideo: Ediciones “El Galeon,” 1993. Pp. 
23). 

Bollini, Paolo. Dante visto dalla luna. Figure dinamiche nei primi canti del 
Paradiso. Nuova Biblioteca Dedalo 158. Bari: Dedalo, 1994. Pp. 414. 

Bolton Holloway, Julia. Twice-Told Tales. Brunetto Latino and Dante Alighieri. 
New York: Lang, 1993. Pp. 561. 

Botteril, Steven. Dante and the Mystical Tradition. Cambridge Studies in 
Medieval Literature 22. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1994. Pp. 269. 

Bregoli-Russo, Mauda. Studi di critica boiardesca. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 
1994, Pp. 115. 

Brown, Alison. The Medici in Florence. The Exercise and Language of Power. 
Firenze: Olschki; University of Western Australia Press Perth, 1992. Pp. 
356. 

Caputo, Rino. Per far segno. La critica dantesca americana da Singleton a oggi. 
Roma: II] Calamo, 1993. 

Cerretani, Bartolomeo. Dialogo della mutazione di Firenze. Ed. Giuliana Berti. 
Firenze: Olschki, 1993. Pp. 97. 

. Ricordi. Ed. Giuliana Berti. Firenze: Olschki, 1993. Pp. 478. 

Constable, Giles, ed. The Letters between Bernard Berenson and Charles Henry 
Coster. In coll. with Elizabeth H. Beatson and Luca Dainelli. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1993. Pp. 339. 

Contagion. Journal of Violence, Mimesis, and Culture 1 (1994). A tribute to 
René Girard on the occasion of his 70th birthday. 

D’ Andrea, Antonio. Strutture inquiete. Premesse teoriche e verifiche storico- 
letterarie. Saggi di “Lettere italiane” 45. Firenze: Olschki, 1993. Pp. 200. 

L’ enciclopedismo medievale. Ed. Michelangelo Picone. Ravenna: Longo, 1992. 
Pp: 422. 

Florentine Drawing at the Time of Lorenzo the Magnificent. Papers from a 
colloquium held at the Villa Spelman, Florence, 1992. Ed. with introd. 
Elizabeth Cropper. Villa Spelman Colloquia, 4. No city. Published by 
Nuova Alfa Editoriale. Distributed by the Johns Hopkins UP, no year 


Books received 395 


[1994]. Pp. 276 + plates. 

Gabriele, Tommasina. Italo Calvino: Eros and Language. Rutherford: Farleigh 
Dickinson UP, 1994. Pp. 175. 

Garzoni, Tomaso. Le vite delle donne illustri della scrittura sacra. Con I’ aggionta 
delie vite delle donne oscure e laide deil’uno e Il’altro Testamento. E un 
discorso in fine sopra la nobilta delle donne. Ed. Beatrice Collina. Ravenna: 
Longo, 1994. PP. 263. 

Goethe e Manzoni. Rapporti tra Italia e Germania intorno al 1800. Ed. Enzo Noé 
Girardi. Firenze: Olschki, 1992. 

Haller, Hermann W. Una lingua perduta e ritrovata. L’italiano degli italo- 
americani. Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 1993. 

Hein, Jean. Enigmaticité et messianisme dans la Divine comédie. Biblioteca 
dell’“Archivum romanicum”, ser. 1, vol. 246. Firenze: Olschki, 1992. Pp. 
635. 

Italian Americans in a Multicultural Society. Ed. Jerome Krase and Judith N. 
DeSena. Proceedings of the Symposium of the American Italian Historical 
Association held at St. John’s University, 11-13 November 1993. Forum 
Italicum Supplement. Filibrary 7. 1994. 

Kahn, Victoria. Machiavellian Rhetoric: From the Counter-Reformation to 
Milton. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1994. Pp. 314. 

Kirkham, Victoria. The Sign of Reason in Boccaccio’ s Fiction Firenze: Olschki, 
1993. Pp. 285. 

Kleiner, John. Mismapping the Underworld: Daring and Error in Dante's 
Comedy. Figurae: Reading Medieval Culture. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1994. 
Pp: 182: 

Literature and Travel. Ed. Michael Hanne. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 1993. Pp. 223. 

Machiavelli and the Discourse of Literature. Ed. Albert Russell Ascoli and 
Victoria Kahn. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1994. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. The Worlds of Petrarch. Durham: Duke UP, 1993. Pp. 
231, 

Magliocchetti, Bruino and Anthony Verna, eds. The Motif of the Journey in 
Italian Literature. Gainesville: UP of Florida, 1994. Pp. 199. 

Padoan, Giorgio. J] lungo cammino del “poema sacro”. Studi danteschi. 
Biblioteca dell’““Archivum romanicum”, ser. 1, 250. Firenze: Olschi, 1993. 
Pp. 308. 

Padoan, Giorgio, ed. Problemi di critica goldoniana. Atti ed inchieste di Quaderni 
veneti. Ravenna: Longo, 1994. Pp. 404. 

Padoan, Giorgio. Rinascimento in controluce. Poeti, pittori, cortigiane e 
teatranti sul palcoscenico rinascimentale. Ravenna: Longo, 1994. Pp. 357. 

Richardson, Brian. Print Culture in Renaissance Italy. The Editor and the 
Vernacular Text, 1470-1600. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1994. Pp. 265. 

Ruzante (Angelo Beolco). L’ anconitana. The Woman from Ancona. Trans with 
introd. Nancy Dersofi. Berkeley: U of California P, 1994. Pp. 173. 


396 Books Received 


Sabbatino, Pasquale. Giordano Bruno e la “mutazione” del Rinascimento. 
Biblioteca dell’“Archivum romanicum”, ser. 1, 254. Firenze: Olschi, 1993. 
Pp; 228: 

Sabbatino, P., L. Scorrano, L. Sebastio, R. Stefanelli. Dante e il Rinascimento. 
Rassegna bibliografica e studi in onore di Aldo Vallone. Firenze: Olschki, 
1994. Pp. 211. 

Studi secenteschi 34 (1993). Pp. 474. 

Studi secenteschi 35 (1994). Pp. 284. 

Sumeli Weinberg, M. Grazia. Invito alla lettura di Dacia Maraini. Pretoria: U of 
South Africa, 1993. Pp. 273. 

Tamburri, Anthony. Per una lettura retrospettiva. Prose giovanili di Aldo 
Palazzeschi. Gradiva Publications, 1994. Pp. 124. 

Teofilo Folengo nel quinto centenario della nascita (1491-1991). Atti del 
Convegno Mantova-Brescia-Padova, 26-29 settembre 1991. Ed. Giorgio 
Bernardi Perini and Claudio Marangoni. Accademia Nazionale Virgiliana di 
Scienze Lettere ed Arti. Miscellanea 1. Firenze: Olschki, 1993. Pp. 506. 

Vico, Giambattista. On Humanistic Education (Sex Inaugural Orations, 1699- 
1707). From the Definitive Latin Text, Introduction, and Notes of Gian 
Galeazzo Visconti. Trans. Giorgio A. Pinton and Arthur W. Shippee. 
Introd. Donald Phillip Verene. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1993. Pp. 172. 

Zangrilli, Franco. Lo specchio per la maschera. Il paesaggio in Pirandello. 
Napoli: E. Cassitto, 1994. Pp. 167. 


Ceserani - De Federicis 


Manuale di letteratura. 


Il materiale 
& 
l’immaginario. 


Vol. 1, Dalle origini al settecento 


Vol. 2, Ottocento e novecento 


Torino: Loescher, 1994. 


L.I.A.B. 
Letteratura Italiana. 
Aggiornamento bibliografico. 





Anno III (1993), numero 1. Pp. XXIV + 452. 
Semestrale. 


L.I.A.B. 
é una bibliografia corrente semestrale sulla letteratura italiana. 
Questo numero segnala le opere, gli articoli, e le recensioni 
pubblicati fra il novembre 1992 ed il giugno 1993. 


L.I.A.B. 
é ordinato secondo uno schema classificato ed ha indici dei 
soggetti biografici, degli argomenti, degli autori, dei periodici e 
degli editori. 


ISSN: 1121-0753 
Direttore: Benedetto Aschero. 


Trieste: Alcione Edizioni. 
Direzione e redazione. Alcione Edizioni, Corso Italia n. 31. 
34122 Trieste 


Abbonamento annuo: 
per VItalia: L. 350.000 
per Vestero: L. 400.000 


Singoli studiosi (abbonamento diretto presso Il’editore) 
per l’Italia: L. 210.000 
per Vestero: L. 240.000 


1 libri 
bimestrale di bibliografia italiana 


Abbonamento 1994 
Italia ed estero L. 60.000 


anno I numero 1 gennaio-febbraio 1994 


Casalini libri 
Via Benedetto da Maiano, 3 
50014 Fiesole (Firenze) 


Dante Alighieri 


Vita nuova 


Vol. 1. Italian Text with Facing English 
Translation 
Introduction, Topical Index, Concordance of the Italian 
Text, and Glossary. 


By 
Dino S. Cervigni 
& 
Edward Vasta. 
The University of Notre Dame Press 
1995 


KK KK KK 


Dante Alighieri 


Vita nuova 


Vol. 2. Commentary, Appendices, and 
Bibliography. 


By 
Dino S. Cervigni 
& 
Edward Vasta. 


The University of Notre Dame Press 
1996 


University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 







The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 
1909, links its distinguished past of internationally known 
faculty and alumni to a lively and timely intellectual exchange 
in the present. The Department offers M.A. AND Ph.D. degrees 
in French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romance 
Philology. 

















Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. 





Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispandéfila, and Annali d’Italianistica. 











Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 4,000,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. Cooperative purchasing and borrowing programs 
with Duke University and North Carolina State University enhance the holdings 
of the Davis Library. 













Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers 
numerous fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit 
Fellowships (including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-$15,000. 
Teaching Assistantships: $7,400-$11,100. Endowments enable the Department 
to offer supplemental scholarships of $1,000-$2,000 to qualified students. Most 
students teach two or three sections of beginning language courses per academic 
year, according to their teaching experience and the University’s needs. 














Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to 
the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by 
writing to: The Graduate Secretary, Department of Romance Languages and 
Literatures, CB # 3170, 238 Dey Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 
Applicants requesting fellowships and assistantships must submit admission 
materials by February 1. 








*Italianistica 
Adl 





Annalicd 





a4 0) FLOR PONTO) OO) OM 8 
(unbound photocopy available) 
1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 

2 (1984), Guicciardini 
3 (1985), Manzoni 
6 (1988), Film and Literature 









VOLUMES AVAILABLE 
4 (1986), Autobiography 
5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
9 (1991), Italy 1991: the Modern and the Postmodern 
10 (1992), Images of Columbus & the New World 

11 (1993), Goldoni 7 
12 (1994), The Italian Epic & Its International Context 











VOLUMES IN PREPARATION | 
13 (1995), Italian Women Mystics 

14 (1996), Travel Literature _ | 
15 (1997), Anthropology & Italian. Literature 
16 (1998), Italian Cultural Studies 






ISBN 0741-7527 






Rates for U.S.A. and Canada as of January 1994: Individuals $15; Institutions 
$29; Agencies $27. Rates for countries outside North America: Individuals $18; 
Institutions $33; Agencies $30. Publication and shipping date: December of 
every year. Back issues: add $3. Checks, in U.S. currency, should be made 
payable to Annali d’Italianistica. ISSN 0741-7527 








