





AdI 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
http://www. ibiblio.org/annali e-mail: <annali@metalab.unc.edu> 


EDITOR 

Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
ASSOCIATE EDITOR 

Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 

ADVISORY BOARD 

Andrea Battistini, Universita degli Studi di Bologna 

Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 

Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Vincenzo De Caprio, Universita della Tuscia, Viterbo 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Giulio Ferroni, Universita della Sapienza, Roma 

Franco Fido, Harvard University 

Valeria Finucci, Duke University 

John Gatt-Rutter, La Trobe University (Melbourne) 

Walter Geerts, Universiteit Antwerpen 

Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 

Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Edoardo A. Lébano, /ndiana University 

Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 

Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 

Olimpia Pelosi, SUNY-A/bany 

Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 

Paolo Valesio, Yale University 

Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 

Assistant Editor 

Anne Tordi, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


© 2003 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Editorial Policy 

Annali d’Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its 
cultural context, to foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of interest to 
a large number of Italianists. Monographic in nature, the journal is receptive to 
a variety of topics, critical approaches, and theoretical perspectives. Each 
year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and contributions are welcome. 
The journal is issued in the fall of each year. Manuscripts should be submitted 
on diskette and should be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. 
Authors should follow the MLA style for articles in English; articles in Italian 
should conform to the Ad/ style sheet. Visit the journal’s website 
(www. ibiblio.org/annali) for further information on the contributions’ style. 
For all communications concerning contributions, address the Editor, Annali 
d'Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-3170, or post <annali@metalab.unc.edu>. 


Notes & Reviews 


This section occasionally publishes essays and review articles on topics treated 
in one of the previous volumes of Annali d‘Italianistica. 


Italian Bookshelf 

Italian Bookshelf is edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the 
collaboration of Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Valeria 
Finucci, Albert N. Mancini, Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 

The purpose of /talian Bookshelf is to identify, review, and bring to the 
attention of Italianists recent studies on Italian literature and culture. /talian 
Bookshelf will cover the entire history of Italian literature. AdJ will review 
books exclusively on the basis of their scholarly worth. To this purpose, junior 
and senior colleagues will be invited to collaborate without any consideration 
to academic affiliation and with an open attitude toward critical approaches. 
Contributions to this section are solicited. Scholars who intend to contribute 
are encouraged to contact the editors or one of the section’s permanent 
collaborators. Book reviews, to be submitted on diskette or electronically, 
should be sent to the Editor. For inquiries post <annali@metalab.unc.edu>. 


The Journal’s Website: www.ibiblio.org/annali 
The tables of contents of all issues, including the list of all book reviews, are 
available online. As of volume 16 (1998), each issue’s introductory essay and 
all book reviews are available online with their full texts. 


In Memoriam Antoni Maczak (1928-2003) 


Antoni Maczak was born in Lwow, but early in his life moved with his 
parents to Warsaw, where he studied history under Professor Marian 
Malowist, the noted historian of Polish medieval times. Maczak began his 
publishing career with essays on the wool industry in Great Poland from 
the fourteenth till the seventeenth century, on peasant economy in Zulawy 
in Pomerania in the early madern period and on the Baltic trade in the 
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. In the late 1970s he began working on 
early modern édites, publishing Readzaqcy 1 reqadzeni (Governing and Governed, 
1986), an analysis of the different systems of government in late medieval 
and eatly modern Europe, followed by Kéentela (1994), a study of the rela- 
tions between patrons and clients in the pre-industrial society. Antoni 
Maczak’s final analysis of these relations in a wider European context will 
appear in Nierowna przyjagn (Unequal Friendship). 

Professor Maczak’s passion, however, was the history of travel and 
tourism. Inspired by the diary of Fynes Moryson, he published Zycie 
codzienne w podroxy po Europie XVI- XVII wieku (1978: Everyday Life During 
the Travels through Europe in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Century) and 
Peregrynage, wojaxe turystyka (1984: Prlerimages, travels and tourism), a widely 
translated work that introduced the everyday life of travelers and their 
perception of “otherness” to a large public. In the last years of his life 
Antoni Maczak turned to eighteenth- and nineteenth-centuries guidebooks 
to study how English gentlemen viewed and interpreted the Continent. 
Among his other works, we shall at least mention the early modern 
sections in the Deieje gospodarcze Polski (1973: Economic History of Poland) and 
Spoteczenstwo polskie X-XX wieku (1979: Polsh Society from the Tenth to the 
Twentieth century, 1979). 

A gifted editor, Professor Maczak produced Geneza nowoxytne/ 
Anghi (1968: The Making of Modern England), a selection of important articles 
on English civil war written by British and American historians. He was 
also the general editor of the monumental Historia Europy (2000: History of 
Europe), and for many years the director of Przeglad Historyezny (Historical 
Review) one of the most prestigious of Poland’s historical journals. He was a 
member of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Danish Royal Academy, 
the Accademia Europea, and other learned societies. 

Antoni Maczak was also a brilliant teacher, full of compassion, 
imagination, and courage. His legacy continues through his numerous 
students who are now teaching at the university level. 


(Adam Manikowski) 


Annals dé Htalanistica 


HODOEPORICS REVISITED 7 RITORNO ALL’ODEPORICA 
VOLUME 21, 2003 
EDITED BY LUIGI MONGA 


INTRODUCTION 
7 LUIGI MONGA, The Unavordable “Snare of Narrative”: Fiction and Creativity 
in Hodoeporics 


HODOEPORICS AND LITERATURE / ODEPORICA E LETTERATURA 

47 EMANUELE KANCEFF, Odeporica e letteratura: contro la dislessia 

57 SERGIO ZATTI, Viaggi sedentart 

71 THEODORE].CACHEY,JR., The End of the Journey from Gilgamesh wo Le citta 
invisibili 

93 DARIA PEROCCO, ‘Mettere’ t/ viaggio ‘tn carta’: narrazione odeporica tra realta, 
utopia ed allegoria 

105 FRANCOIS MOUREAU, Voyages anonymes et manuscrits: une stratégte de communt- 
catton ‘réservée’ 

117 SYLVIE REQUEMORA, Voyage et Lbertinage, ou l’usage du genre viatique comme 
‘machine a déntatser’ dans la kittérature francaise du XVIE stécle 

137 ILARIA CROTTI, Margini del viaggio: tra Goldoni e Marivaux 

161 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA, I/ memoriale: la parabola testimoniak e i confini della 
memoria 

183 MICHEL BRIX, Voyages romantiques 

197 JONATHAN SMITH, Psychoanalysis, Deconstruction, Hodoeporics: Tabuccht 


HODOEPORICS AND SOCIAL SCIENCES / ODEPORICA E SCIENZE SOCIALI 

223 CARLA MARCATO, Aspetti Lnguistici dell’odeporica del Cinquecento 

233 THOMAS G. OLSEN, Poisoned Figs and Itakan Sallet: Nation, Diet, and the 
Early Modern Enghsh Traveler 

255 MICHEL BIDEAUX, Les Voyageurs devant les soctétés coloniales (1 500-1 800): essat 
d'une problematique 

269 ANDRES ZAMORA, Odiseas excrementales 

287 NATHALIE C. HESTER, Geographies of Belonging: Itakan Travel Writing and 
Itakan Identity in the Age of Early European Tourism 

301 PIOTR SALWA, La relazione di viaggio come strumento didascakico 

319 LORENZA MONDADA, Relations de voyage et archéologie des pratiques d’enquéte 
en sceences sociales: comment rapporter la voix de l’Autre 


347 ANTONI MACZAK, Gentlemen’s Europe: Nineteenth-Century “Handbooks for 
Travelers” 

363 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE, Lethal Molukies: Calvin and the Smart Bomb 

379 WALTER GEERTS and KIRSTEN WOLFS, La fallacia dell’autentictta (con 
osservaztoni sullO\anda di Arbasino) 

393 DAVIDEPAPOTTI, Astivzia odeporica ed impulso scrittorto: la prospettiva geografica 
sulla relazione di viaggio 

409 LUIGI MONGA, Mapping the Journey / Translating the World 

427 FRANCESCO SBERLATI, Eroi verso Onrtente: Lesottsmo nella letteratura medtevale 


RECENT WORKS ON HODOEPORICS / LAVORI RECENTI SULL’ODEPORI- 

CA / TRAVAUX RECENTS SUR L’HODEPORIQUE 

447 MARTHA KALSTROM, A Brbkography of Dissertations on Hodoeporic Themes 
(1996-2002) 

461 CARMINE DI BIASE, Recent Books in Enghsh on Travel Narrative and Criticism 

483 DOMINIQUE LANNI, Eat présent des recherches en francais sur la littérature des 
voyages 

501 DAVIDE PAPOTTI, Pubbkcazzoni recenti di argomento odeporico in itakano 


517 THE ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 
EDITED BY DINO S. CERVIGNI AND ANNE TORDI 


Francesco Bruni, La citta divisa. Le parti e il bene comune da Dante a Guicciardini. (D. 
S. Cervigni 517) 

Francesco Bruni. L ‘italiano letterario nella storia. (J. Vizmuller-Zocco 520) 

Giuseppe Patota. Lineamenti di grammatica storica dell’italiano. (J. Vizmuller-Zocco 
522) 

Antonello Borra. Guittone d’Arezzo e le maschere del poeta. La lirica cortese tra 
ironia e palinodia. (Luigi M. Reale524) 

Graham Smith. The Stone of Dante and Later Florentine Celebrations of the Poet. (A. 
Audeh 526) 

Giuseppe Ledda. La guerra della lingua. Ineffabilita, retorica e narrativa nella 
“Commedia” di Dante. (D. Fasolini 529) 

Maria Luisa Ardizzone. Guido Cavalcanti. The Other Middle Ages. (D. Fasolini 530) 

Reading Medieval Studies 27 (2001). Special Issue. Dante. Current Trend in Dante 
Studies. Edited by Claire E. Honess. (Julio Picasso Mufioz 532) 

Jennifer Margaret Fraser. Rite of Passage in the Narratives of Dante and Joyce. 
(Norma Bouchard 534) 


Riccardo Fubini. Humanism and Secularization from Petrarch to Valla. (M. Simonetta 
537) 

Jeryldene M. Wood, ed. The Cambridge Companion to Piero della Francesca. (C. 
Springer 538) 

The Cambridge Companion to Masaccio. Ed. Diane Cole Ahl. (B. Ferraro 541) 

Charles Burroughs. The Italian Renaissance Palace Fagade. Structures of Authority, 
Surfaces of Sense. (B. Ferraro 542) 

Giovanni Andrea Gilio, Dialogo del letterato cortigiano, a cura di Paolo Cherchi, con 
una nota linguistica di Francesco Bruni. (Sergio Corsi 544) 

Marco Santoro. Libri Edizioni Biblioteche tra Cinque e Seicento. Con un percorso 
bibliografico. (P. Cherchi 546) 

Francesco Cotticelli, Anne Goodrich Heck, and Thomas F. Heck, trans. and eds. The 
Commedia dell’Arte in Naples: A Bilingual Edition of the 176 Casamarciano 
Scenarios | La Commedia dell’arte a Napoli: Edizione Bilingue dei 176 
Scenari Casamarciano. (R. Kerr 548) 

Armando Maggi. Satan's Rhetoric: A Study of Renaissance Demonology. (M. O’Neil 
351) 

Giulia Bigolina. Urania. A cura di Valeria Finucci. (L. Giannetti Ruggiero 553) 

Janis Bell and Thomas Willette, eds. Art History in the Age of Bellori: Scholarship and 
Cultural Politics in Seventeenth-Century Rome. (M. Galli Stampino 555) 

Rebecca Messbarger. The Century of Women: Representations of Women in Eighteenth- 
Century Italian Public Discourse. (Arnold A. Schmidt 557) 

Alfredo Luzi (a cura di). Microcosmi leopardiani. Biografie, cultura, societa. (P. 
Rambelli 559) 

Elizabeth Schachter. Origin and Identity: Essays on Svevo and Trieste. (Russell 
Valentino 561) 

Gaetana Marrone. Lo sguardo e il labirinto: il cinema di Liliana Cavani. (G. Bullaro 
563) 

Segnali sul nulla. Studi e testimonianze per Juan Rodolfo Wilcock, a cura di Roberto 
Deidier. (G. Nisini 564) 

Franco Zangrilli, ed. La Ciociaria tra letteratura e cinema. (Norma Bouchard 566) 

Maria Sechi, Giovanna Santoro, and Maria Antonietta Santoro, eds. L ‘ombra lunga 
dell’esilio Ebraismo e memoria. (Norma Bouchard 569) 

John Gatt-Rutter, ed. Studi d’italianistica nell’Africa Australe: Italian Studies in 
Southern Africa. Special Issue on Life Writing / Scrivere |'autobiografia. (C: 
Lazzaro-Weis 571) 

Frank Burke and Marguerite R. Waller, eds. Federico Fellini: Contemporary 
Perspectives. (J. Druker 573) 

Graziella Parati and Ben Lawton, eds. /talian Cultural Studies. (J. Smith 575) 

Flavia Brizio-Skov. Antonio Tabucchi: navigazioni in un arcipelago narrativo. (E. 
Bolongaro 578) 

Stefania Lucamante, ed. and trans. /talian Pulp Fiction. The New Narrative of the 
Giovani cannibali Writers. (N. McGowan 580) 

Franco Ricci. Painting with Words, Writing with Pictures: Word and Image in the Work 
of Italo Calvino. (P. Bartoloni 582) 

Alessandro Carrera. La vita meravigliosa dei laureati in lettere. (M. Inglese 585) 

Enrico Palandri. La deriva romantica. Ipotesi sulla letteratura e sulla scrittura. (P. 


Rambelli 587) 
Franco Loi. Isman. Giancarlo Majorino. Gli alleati viaggiatori. Giampiero Neri. 
Finale. (V. Surliuga 589) 
Michéle Lagny. Luchino Visconti. Vérités d'une légende. (Y. Laberge 591) 
Anna Maria Torriglia. Broken Time, Fragmented Space: A Cultural Map for Postwar 
Italy. (B. Luciano 593) 
Grazia Menechella. // felice vanverare. Ironia e parodia nell’opera narrativa di Giorgio 
Manganelli. (R. Boglione 595) 
Alfonso Berardinelli. La forma del saggio. Definizione e attualita di un genere 
letterario. (M. Di Gest 597) 
Elide Casali. Le spie del cielo. Oroscopi, lunari e almanacchi nell’Italia moderna. (B. 
Trentin 599) 
Anita Piemonti e Marina Polacco (a cura di). Sogni di carta. Dieci studi sul sogno 
raccontato in letteratura. (G. Torello 601) 
Le riviste di italianistica nel mondo. Atti del convegno internazionale. Ed. Marco 
Santoro. (A. Tordi 603) 
Carla Marcato. Dialetto, dialetti e italiano. (A. De Fina 604) 
Anna Camaiti Hostert and Anthony Julian Tamburri, eds. Screening Ethnicity. 
Cinematographic Representations of Italian Americans in the United States. 
(Yves Laberge 606) 
Valeria Finucci. The Manly Masquerade: Masculinity, Paternity, and Castration in 
the Italian Renaissance. Durham, N.C.: Duke UP, 2003. (Cristina Mazzoni 
608) 
Brief notices edited by Anne Tordi (610) 
Cristina Bragaglia, ed. Scritture e riscritture. Film/Letterature. Bologna: Gedit, 2002. 
Cristina Bragaglia, ed. Case tra parole e immagini. Film/Letterature. Bologna: Gedit, 
2002. 
Giovanni Meli. Don Chisciotti and Sanciu Panza. Trans., introd., and notes Gaetano 
Cipolla. New York: Legas, 2002. 
Giose Rimanelli. Gioco d'amore / Amore del gioco. Poesia provenzale e moderna in 
dialetto molisano e lingua. Isernia: Cosmo Iannone, 2002. 
Cesare Ruffato. Scribendi licentia. Poems in the Paduan Dialect. Ed. and trans. into 
English Luigi Bonaffini. Brooklyn, NY: Legas, 2002. 
Antonello Catani. Viaggio con la straniera. Le scommesse 151. Torino: Genesi, 2002. 
II giubileo. Roma: Istituto nazionale di studi romani, 2000. 
Stephen Massimilla. Forty Floors from Yesterday. / Quaranta piani da ieri. Trans. into 
Italian Luigi Bonaffini. Boca Raton (FL): Bordighera, 2002. 
Renaissance Quarterly 56, 2 (Summer 2003). 
Symposium 56, 3 (Fall 2002). 
Dominique Bax, ed. Pier Paolo Pasolini. Alberto Moravia. Collection “Magic Cinéma”, 
11. Bobigny (France), Thédtres au cinéma, 2000. (Yves Laberge) 
Pier Paolo Pasolini. Dans le ceur d'un enfant. Tal cour di un frut. Bilingual edition. 
(Yves Laberge) 
Pier Paolo Pasolini. Douce et autres textes. Trans. and introd. by Marguerite Pozzoli. 
Collection «Lettres italiennes». Arles (France): Actes Sud and Hubert Nyssen 
éditeur, 2000. (Yves Laberge) 


LUIGI MONGA 


The Unavoidable “Snare of Narrative’’:! 
Fiction and Creativity in Hodoeporics 


A Genre With “A Thousand Forms and Formulas” 


Il faudrait étre bien confit en esthéticisme pour rejeter hors de l’histoire 
littéraire digne de ce nom l’immense littérature des voyages, si indisso- 
ciable soit-elle de la géographie et de ’ethnographie, si encombrée soit-elle 
de ternes publicistes ou de globe-trotters qui s’improvisent écrivains.’ 


When, forty years ago, Marcel Bataillon urged authors of manuals of literary 
history to bear in mind the large corpus of travel literature, he admitted that 
hodoeporics’ often appeared too uncomfortably encroaching upon other areas 
to be considered a subject of literature on its own merit. It looked too entangled 
to be assessed independently and interfered with other literary genres that begged 
to be classified and appraised by their specific characteristics. All forms of 
narrative have been postulated as involving, to a certain extent, a spatial and 
chronological displacement, yet the amorphous material that constitutes travel 
narrative deserves a definition and classification that would improve on the 
present, rather blurry one.* As positive as it may look at first glance, Louis 


1. Louis Marin, Le Récit est un piége (Paris: Les Editions de Minuit, 1978). Portions of this essay 
were read in 2002 as seminars or lectures at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
the University of Ireland at Galway, Trinity College, Dublin, and the Universita di Catania. 


2. Marcel Bataillon, “Remarques sur la littérature des voyages,” in Connaissance de I’étranger: 
Meélanges Jean-Marie Carré (Paris: Didier, 1964), 51. 


3. While we are fond of the Italian formulation odeporica (Nucera 119) and hodoeporics in English 
(Monga, “Travel” 6) for their historical and etymological parentage, /ittérature de voyages and 
littérature viatique ace common in French (although we are happy to notice hodéporque as an 
adjective in one of the essays in this volume), while in Spanish caminerfa seems to be still 
prevalent. 


4. Michel de Certeau stated that “Tout récit est un récit de voyage” (L Invention du quotidien: I: 
Arts de faire (Paris: 10/18, 1980), 206; cf. also Monga, “Travel” 6-7. Tzvetan Todorov’s assertion 





Annali dTtalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


8 LUIGI MONGA 


Marin’s definition of travel narrative remains vague in his attempt to find a 
common denominator of the various forms of this narrative: 


un type de récit ot histoire bascule dans la geographie, ou la ligne successive 
qui est la trame formelle du récit ne relie point, les uns aux autres, des événe- 
ments, des accidents, des auteurs narratifs, mais des lieux dont le parcours 
et la traversée constituent la narration elle-méme,; récit, plus précisément, dont 
les événements sont des lieux qui n’apparaissent dans le discours du narrateur 
que parce qu’ils sont les étapes d’un itinéraire. Sans doute ces étapes peuvent- 
elles étre marquées pas des incidents, des accidents et des rencontres, c’est-a- 
dire par l’'autre espéce d’événements qui constituent le matériau du récit his- 
torique.’ (quoted in Pasquali 94) 


In his seminal work on travel literature and the novel, Percy G. Adams found 
the taxonomic problem of travel narrative quite hard to solve. Far from offering 
a clear definition of this genre, Adam’s conclusions were only a series of litotes 
attempting to shed some light on this murky area: 


The récit de voyage is not just a first-person journal. [...] It is not just prose. [...] 
It is not necessarily a story with a simple, uncontrived plot. [...] It is not just 
a set of notes jotted down each day or whenever the traveler has time. [...] 
It is not just an objective report. [...] [It] is not a branch of history any more 
than it is of geography. [...] [It] is, of course, not just an exploration report. 
[...] It is not a complete record of a journey. [...] It is not “subliterature.” 
(Adams 1983, 280-281) 


These restrictive expressions are not mutually exclusive nor are they to be taken 
as absolute statements, but they can hardly be considered definitions. Yet, some 
of Adams’s conclusions could be useful as starting points for a discussion. There 
is no prescribed form for hodoeporics, for the travel writer “has a thousand 
forms and formulas from which to choose when writing the account of a trip, 
whether he intends to publish his account or not” (Adams 1983, IX). In order 
to attempt a taxonomy of this enormous wealth of material, we must look at 
the contents. An analysis of some exemplary models of travel narrative should 


“tout est voyage” (Les Morales de I’bistoire. Paris: Grasset, 1991, 121) is even more encompassing. 


5. Francis Affergan offers another attempt to organize the multifarious models of hodoeporics 
by joining linguistics and rhetoric. Postulating a complex four-model system (““‘récit méto- 
nymique, synecdochique, métaphorique,” and, finally, a réat of real travel and discovery), he 
is eventually forced to acknowledge that “tout récit de voyage appartient aux quatre genres a 
la fois, a des degrés divers, ou plutot il y participe de fait, puisque le rapport sur le voyage 
effectué ou non est invérifiable complétement” (cf. A. Pasquali’s chapter “Une typologie 
narrative des récits de voyage: urgence ou impossibilité?”, 139-143). 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 9 


help us define what critics consider “un genere letterario instabile” (De Caprio 
9), an omnivorous genre whose internal dynamics involve “interazioni e interrela- 
zioni fra testi e modelli, fra testi e fruitori, fra testi e riscritture” (Mancini 108), 
a “genre mal défini” (Wolfzettel 5) with “un statut épisteémologique incertain” 
(Bertrand 10). An ambiguous genre, constantly evolving towards absorbing 
the production of other literary areas, as it has been recently argued, its disparate 
elements do not preclude an internal cohesion, “s’apparentant tantot au collage, 
tantot a la liste, tantot au recueil de fragments; [...] croisant les valeurs de l’utile 
et de l’agréable, celles du vrai, du vraisemblable, de Pimaginaire” (Mondada 
219-220). Describing the world is a complex endeavor, but common sense should 
at least help us make intuitive distinctions between real and fictional writing. 

To paraphrase Jean-Francois Lyotard’s La Condition postmoderne (1979), a 
text may not amount to much, but it exists in a fabric of relations gradually 
acquiring more complex characteristics. My aim is to observe a series of literary 
instances located at nodal points in literary history. As parts of an evolutionary 
continuum, they have offered subsequent readers/writers new sets of senders 
and referents, underscoring new expressive parameters. It will appear that their 
common denominator, a récit of real geographic displacements, has never been 


totally unaffected by the subtle lure of fiction. 


oe EO Ha TEU 


Herodotus’s dpsis: Eyewitnessing the Journe 
y. ng y 


[He] measures the inhabited portion of the earth. (Strabo, 
Geography 2.5.4) 


The classical canon of travel literature may include sagas, historical reports, and 
works of geography proper. Before automatically accepting all this material 
into what we call hodoeporics today, we must establish an objective method 
of classification to sort out the immense variety of subgenres. We must exclude 
epic poems, with their spotty chronology and a low gradient of geography, 
unverifiable journeys woven into a substructure of myths and legends. We must 
let go such classics as the Odyssey, the Aeneid, and most national epics, for they 
do not reflect real journeys, and expunge from our canon such works as Lucian 
of Samosata’s incongruous True Story, Astolfo’s journey in Ariosto’s Orlando 
Jurioso, Swift's Gulliver’s Travels, or Cyrano de Bergerac’s L ‘autre monde. 
Herodotus’s History of the Persian Wars (5th century B.C.) was probably 
conceived as a geographical work like the Perregesis of Hecataeus of Miletus. 
The references in his History to the numerous journeys Herodotus undertook 
beyond the Mediterranean area and Pontus into Mesopotamia, probably even 
to Scythia, make it, more than a book of history, the first text of travel narrative 


10 LUIGI MONGA 


in the western world. Although, as an historian, Herodotus had little insight 
into the real causes of the momentous political changes he witnessed, he followed 
a clear method of inquiry, recording hearsay (akoé) as a basis of information, 
but definitely favoring eyewitnessing (6psis). His dpsis, the observation of the 
world, confronting reality with the voice of his informers, became the standard 
for travel writing. 

The value of firsthand accounting was explicitly stated seventeen centuries 
later in Marco Polo’s and Filippo Sassetti’s narratives and remains a fundamental 
element in our discussion. 

Strabo, a 1st-century B.C. geographer who, apparently, did not travel much, 
defined the ideal travel writer as “he who measures” the world (Geography 2.5.4). 
Despising travel liars who accepted any stories uncritically (“Everyone likes 
to boast about his voyages,” 1.2.23), his “measuring” the world meant that the 
writer touched the world he saw. The consensus between Greek writers and 
medieval Italian merchants could not be more striking, as Sassetti wrote centuries 
later “vedere e toccare e scrivere” (infra 13). 

At the beginning of our era, geography was already a complex science 
involving mathematics and cartography. Aware of cartographic details unknown 
to Strabo and other new information, Pomponius Mela’s De situ orbis (1st century 
A.D.) even mentioned the antichtones, inhabitants of the temperate zone south 
of the Equator thought to be unreachable to the people of the northern 
hemisphere. Eventually, with Pausanias’s Description of Greece (2nd century A.D.) 
personal narrative evolved toward a sort of modern travel journal, with glimpses 
into the daily life of the Greeks, their folklore, legends, and local history. The 
traveler had already begun writing about his personal experience and opsis was 
firmly established as a sine qua non of travel writing. 


Horace: Personal Hodoeporics and Poetry 
Brundisium longa finis chartaque vieque est. 


Ithas been stated that the Roman pragmatic spirit preferred geography to travel.° 
Nothing is farther from the truth. Even in the ancient world large assemblies 
of Greek pilgrims gathered at the shrines (the pervegests in Delos mentioned by 
Thucydides 3, 105) and people of all social strata participated in religious tours 
(pertodot) and Panhellenic festivals in Olympia, Delphi, Nemea, and Corinth. 
For the comfort of long-distance travelers, Cyrus had organized a service of 
relays joining Lydia and Phrygia, through Cappadocia, Cilicia and Armenia (Hero- 
dotus 5, 52), and Imperial Rome saw a great increase in the number of travelers 


6. “Lo spirito pragmatico latino non sembra aver avuto in simpatia il viaggio; nessuna opera 
con questo contenuto figura nel canone tramandato alla posterita romanza” (Cardona 688). 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 11 


thanks to an efficient network of roads (André-Baslez 23, 33, 119-246).’ A search 
for a common denominator of travel narrative in Latin literature would 
undoubtedly have to begin with Horace’s “Iter Brundisium” (Sav. 1, 5), which 
is one of the earliest first-person narratives (commentarium) of an actual journey 
recorded by a real traveler. 

The journal of the journey of Mecenas, who was sent by Octavian from 
Rome to Brundisium in 38 BC in order to settle a political issue with Mark Antony, 
the “Iter Brundisium” has all the qualities of a modern travel narrative. The 
author mentions by name the friends with whom he is traveling, the toponyms 
of his itinerary (Roma, Aricia, Appii Forum, Anxur, Fundi, Sinuessa, Capua, 
Beneventum, Trivicum, Rubi, Gnatia, and Brundisium),* offers a precise 
chronology of daily events (“dum as exigitur, dum mula ligatur, / tota abit hora,” 
13-14), a physical description of the area south of Rome (“incipit [...] montis 
Apulia notos / ostentare,” 77-78), geographic peculiarities of villages and towns 
(“venit vilissima rerum / hic aqua, sed panis longe pulcherrimus” 88-89), a 
description of ill-equipped inns (“hospitio modico,” 2; “villula tectum / prebuit,” 
45-46, “lachrimoso non sine fumo,” 80) infested by bothersome insects and 
cacophonous frogs (“mali culices raneque palustres,” 14), fights among drunk 
country bumpkins (11-13), and even the description of a local fatuous (“insanus” 
dandy whom Horace is happy to leave behind (34-36). Horace records exact 
distances between cities (“mnilia [...] tria repimus,” 25; “quattuor [...] vigintt ... 
milia,” 86) and episodes of travelers’ fatigue (“‘lassi,”37; “crudi,” 49) and illness, 
including a case of an ante ktteram “Montezuma’s revenge” (“hic propter aquam, 
quod erat deterrima, ventri / indico bellum,” 7-8). He also notes other friends 
encountered along the way (“Plotwus et Varius [...] Vergiliusque,” 40) and records 
local history (“locus a forti Diomede est conditus,” 92). A mock-heroic 
invocation of the Muse (51-53) before the description of a verbal contest (“pugna’”’) 
between two buffoons and the attempt to set up a one-night stand with a local 
girl, alas too shy (“hic ego mendacem stultissimus usque puellam / ad mediam 
noctem expecto,” 82-83), give a facetious tone to this hodeporin, showing Horace’s 
definite intention to include entertainment in his a realistic portrait of rural scenes. 
Finally, as a surprisingly postmodern conclusion, the very last line of this narrative 


7. Although the literary genre of travel narrative was rare in Roman times, there were instances 
of such narratives in texts as different as Petronius’s Satyricon, Cicero’s letters, and, naturally, 
the writings of Pliny and Josephus. 


8. My editions of a number of 16th- and 17th-century journals of French and English travelers 
who went from Rome to Naples have shown that in early-modern times the route from Rome 
to Naples, the Via Appia, followed a good portion of Horace’s journey. Some early modern 
detours were caused by the deterioration of the Via Appia, which occurred during the Middle 
Ages, and by the risk of malaria in the marshes between Sermoneta and Priverno (cf. D. 
Sterpos, Roma-Capua. Rome: Autostrade, 1966, 99-148). 


12 LUIGI MONGA 


identifies the written text (charta) with the journey (za): “Brundisium longz finis 
charteque vieque est.” Itis a fascinating parallel with some very recent readings 
of the travel adventure as writing. “Voyager d’une certaine facon, c’est écrire, 
[...] et écrire c’est voyager,” wrote Michel Butor,’ linking his exploration of writing 
with traveling fot court. The white page offers the writer an infinite variety of 
paths, as the sea offers routes to sailors. The chosen path, the one recorded on 
paper, is what the reader will peruse; reading, traveling, and writing will begin 
and end at the beginning and end (finis) of the written text (charta). What more 
does one need to concede an unbroken literary connection between the Roman 
hodeporicon and the postmodern analysis of travel narrative? 

Early commentators asserted that Horace’s “Iter” was inspired by a lost 
poem by Gaius Lucilius (ca. 180-103 B.C.) whose success had prompted Julius 
Caesar to write the journal of his Spanish expedition. If, as it seems, Horace 
cannibalized Lucilius’s poetic narrative of a journey from Rome to Capua and 
Sicily, he may be the forerunner of another topos, the ubiquitous plagiarizing” 
that pervades most of early modern travel narrative. After the “Iter Brandistum’”— 
and the texts we are about to analyze — one cannot claim without qualification 
that “travel is very much a modern concept, signifying both commercial and 
leisure movement in an era of expanding Western capitalism.”"' It should not 
be a sin of &se critique for twenty-first-century scholars to acknowledge that 
Horace’s hodoeporic model represents a tradition that has constantly remained 
in the forefront of travel narrative. Classical models, albeit forgotten by some 
contemporary critics, still represent a valuable source to be investigated, and 


9. “Le Voyage et l’écriture,” in Repertoire IV (Paris: Minuit, 1974), 9-10; see also Jaime Ferran, 
“Viaje y literatura” (in Monga, 1996, 65-70). Horace’s connection between charta and va, 
present also in Petrarch (see infra 24), became quite common in neo-Latin hodoeporics. It 
appears in the conclusion of an “Hodoeporicum ab urbe Lutetia ad Romam usque” (1590) by 
Jacques Sirmond: “Idem esto finis carminis atque viae” (L. Monga, “L’ Hodoeporicum de Jacques 
Sirmond,” Humanistica Lovaniensia, 42 [1993]:301-322), and in an “Iter Ferraria Coloniam” by 
Fabio Chigi (the future Pope Alexander v1): “... longique laboris / Atque viae tandem 
chartaeque imponere finem” (Philomati Musae iuveniles. Coloniae Ubiorum: I. Kalcovium, 
1645, 85). 


10. Another topos of early-modern travel narrative in Lucilius’s text is that it addressed a 
friend who could not join the travelers. Lucilius wanted to share the joy of the journey and the 
praise of completing it (“Tu partem laudis caperes tu gaudia mecum / partisses”). Travel 
narrative is a means of vicarious traveling for sedentary individuals who cannot afford the 
expenses of a long journey, as Jacques De Villamont’s suggested to his readers: “sans changer 
d’air faictes ce long voyage” (Voyages. Paris: C. de Montr’oeil et J. Richer, 1600). 


11. Caren Kaplan, Questions of Travel: Postmodern Dicourses of Displacement (Durham: Duke UP, 
1996), 3. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 13 


textual analysis could often be more useful than a theoretical inquiry based on 
a jargon-driven reflection brought forth by a political parti pris or the construction 
of artificial critical categories. Furthermore, other Latin texts (Ausonius’s Mosella 
and Namatianus’s De reditu suo are the best known examples) show a continuum 
between Horace and the 4th- and 5th-century travel narrative, which maintained 
an enormous success through Renaissance neo-Latin poetry, particularly in the 
German area.” Petrus Lotichius Secundus and Hieronymus Balbus wrote about 
their journeys, followed by many writers, such as the well-traveled Dutch poet 
Nathan Chytreus, and Jacques Sirmond, a Jesuit scholar who penned a poetic 
hodeporicum of his dramatic journey from a besieged Paris to Rome in 1590." 
Personal accounts of true events, their travel narratives cleared the path to the 
modern récit de voyage. 


Early Modern Merchants: “vedere e toccare e scrivere” 


Fiato [I peruse] qualche libretto delle novita d’India, del Verzino [Brazil 
e della China, e mentre che io le leggo, fo mille castellucci [small projects| 
d’andarle la a vedere e toccare e scrivere” (Sassetti, 240). 


If we are to sift travel narrative texts according to the description of journeys 
really undertaken, we must disregard the medieval romans, as their heroes’ guestes 
are geographically questionable. The texts of merchants and missionaries who 
address the reality of foreign lands and the alterity of the people they encounter 
are important for our consideration. 

Marco Polo’s I/ Mikone, a narrative that has been subject, periodically, to 
revisionist criticism, still remains, in part, plausible and even verifiable. If Polo’s 
informers were not always as reliable as modern critics would like them to be, 
the author clearly stated his intention to be “truthful and without lies” and 
distinguish between personal experience and hearsay: 


Signon imperadoni, re e duci, [...] vi contera il libro ordinatamente siccome 
Marco Polo [...] le conta in questo libro e egli medesimamente vide. Ma ancora 
wha di quelle con le quali elli non vide, ma udille da persone degne di fede, 
€ pero cose vedute dira di veduta e l’altre per udita, accio che I] nostro libro 
sia veritieri e sanza niuna menzogna. (103) 


12. See Jozef IJsewijn and Dirk Sacré, Companion to Neo-Latin Studies (Leuven: Leuven UP, 
1998), 2:54-58 and Hermann Wiegand, Hodoeporica. Studien zur neulateinischen Reisedichtung des 
deutschen Kulturraums im 16. Jabrhundert (Baden-Baden: Koerner, 1986), 305-308. 


13. See supra, n. 9. As for the term hodoeponicon (Monga 1996: 6), it may be useful to remember 
that the first Anglo-Saxon travel journal is Willibald’s 8th-century Hodoeporicon to Jerusalem. 


14 LUIGI MONGA 


Aware of the impossibility to verify information about dangerous and far-away 
areas, Polo attempted to examine the trustworthiness of his informers (“persone 
degne di fede”). His uniqueness was at stake, for nobody in human history 
had seen so many “maravigliose cose del mondo [...] poi che Iddio fece Adam 
insino al di d’oggi” (104). In his text we find numerous syntagms for the “mar- 
velous” and “incredible” realities he witnessed: “maraviglia a vedere,” “cose 
cosi mirabili,” “maraviglia a credere,” “maraviglia a udire,” “a pena si poterebbe 
credere,” etc." Similar syntagms, blended with superlatives and expressions 
of utter surprise, appeared frequently in Columbus’s Diario de a bordo, especially 
in the early days of his exploration of the Bahamas and Cuba (October 16- 
November 6): “dice el Almirante que nunca tan hermosa cosa vido,” “un muy 
maravilloso puerto,” “aquel puerto es de los mejores del mundo,” “son los peces 
tan disformes de los nuestros que es maravilla,” “no hay hombre que no se 
maraville,” “la cosa mas hermosa de ver,” “ni me sé cansar los ojos de ver tan 
hermosas verduras,” “un singularisimo puerto muy hondo y limpio de pedras, 
muy buena playa para poner navios a monte,” “no curo asi de ver tanto por 
lo menudo, porque no lo podria hacer en cincuenta anos” (Diario 98-116, passim). 
At times, the reader could notice the influence of Mandeville’s incredible stories 
on Columbus’s maravilla, but the Admiral made clear that such reports were 
just hearsay that he needed to investigate further: “Entendié también que lejos 
de alli habia hombres de un ojo y otros con hocicos de perros que comian los 
hombres, y que en tomando uno lo degollaban y le bebian la sangre y le cortaban 
su natura” (116). Writing for his king and accompanied by many witnesses who 
could contradict his report, Columbus’s distinction between seeing and hearing 
was unequivocal. 

“Vedere,” “udire,” and “credere,” among the most basic activities of travelers, 
becamefor Filippo Sassetti, a 16th-century Florentine merchant and humanist 
who traveled to Asia, “vedere e toccare e scrivere,” emphasizing the traveler’s 
needs to communicate his experience. As a merchant, Sassetti was tied to objective 
observations, for he bought and sold real merchandise to authentic customers 
for a concrete profit. An individual deeply anchored in an objective vision of 
a world, Sassetti owed his readers the truth, for they were individuals who risked 
serious investments. 

“(De)scrivere” (“describing” and “writing”) means grasping extraneous 
(foreign) and even strange (hard to understand)” realities, capturing them in 


29 «¢ 29 «¢ 


99 &¢ 


14. In his preface to Marco Polo’s book Giovanni Battista Ramusio acknowledged the 
presence of “molte cose che pareno fabulose e incredibili,” implicitly criticizing Polo’s 
acceptance of what his informers told him (“quello che gli veniva detto,” in Navigaziont e viaggr, 
3:23), 


15. For a brief lexical analysis of the terminology applied to the concept of strange/strangers 
(stranger/ stranger/ straniero/ étranger/ extranjero; strange / étrange/ starno/extrafio) and its relationship 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 15 


words that convey their essence and shape for a readership that could visualize 
them only through analogies and periphrases (Gannier 69-77; see also Michel 
Foucault’s analysis in Les Mots et des choses. Paris: Gallimard, 1966). From the 
sixteenth century to the age of scientific explorations, hodoeporic writings offer 
numerous examples of travelers struggling to describe aromas, textures, and 
taste of newly-discovered fruits, and trees “muy diferentes de los nuestros [...] 
que es la mayor maravilla del mundo cuanta es la diversidad de la una manera 
a la otra” (Columbus 99). 

Venice was the fertile terrain where experienced individuals who had 
“measured” the immensity of the world shared their knowledge of lands and 
peoples; and a the tradition of mercantile writing blossomed. Josafa Barbaro 
proudly stated, as a corollary, that without the narratives of his fellow Venetian 
merchants a great portion of the world would have remained erra incognita (“saria 
incognita, se la mercanzia e marinarezza, per quanto é stato il potere de’ Veneziani, 
non l’avesse aperta,” Barbaro 485). A wealth of knowledge accumulated by 
sailing Venetians and distilled in portolani and notebooks was available to Barbaro. 
But even in these mercantile tools the value of true information (w/i/e) imparted 
to the reader was not without a certain amount of amusing digressions (duce). 
Ambrogio Contarini penned his Viaggio di Persia (1473) to entertain his family 
(“il dar notizia d’un tanto e si lungo viaggio possa esser diletievole e utile a’ nostri 
discendenti,” Preface), and Nicolé di Conti inserted pleasant details to amuse 
his readers (“quivi trovo una usanza piacevok, della quale sol per far ridere non volse 
restar di dire quanto vidde e intese”). The merchant was gradually turning into 
a littérateur, seeking out the marvelous to maintain his readers’ interest. Just 
like exempla in medieval sermons, Josafa Barbaro’s hard-to-believe stories (“cose 
che paiono incredibili”) crept into his travel narrative: 


Essendo al presente astretto da preghiere di chi mi puo comandare, e avendo 
inteso che molto pit cose di queste, che paiono incredibili, si truovano scritte 
in Plinio, in Solino, in Pomponio Mella, in Strabone, in Erodoto, e in altri 
moderni, com’é Marco Polo, Nicolo Conte, nostri veneziani, e in altri novissim1, 
com’é Pietro Quirini, Alvise da Mosto e Ambrosio Contarini, non ho potuto 
far di meno che ancora io non scriva quello che ho veduto. (Barbaro 485-486) 


A new generation of merchants began to be excited by pure discovery. About 
to embark on his return voyage from India, Sassetti acknowledged his intellectual 
openness to new experiences, in the spirit of Dante’s Ulysses: 


nel ritorno vorrei concedere al senso la sperienza di quello che ci é di rimanente: 
pero che partirsi di qui senza vedere Malacca, Molucco e la Cina, mi parrebbe 


with the idea of “anomaly” (strange / extraneous/ estraneo, strange/ extraneous, extravagant/ stravagante), 
see Monga, “Travel” 34. 


16 LUIGI MONGA 


che fusse d’una cena molto splendida non gustarne se non el pane che si mangia 
comunemente ogni giorno. (Sassetti 532: letter of February 10, 1586 from 
Cochin, near Madras) 


Ulysses’s “orazion picciola” to his fellow seamen (Inferno 26:113-120) highlighted 
Sassetti’s identification of his journey with the Greek hero’s mythical voyage. 
Looking ahead to great discoveries of what was beyond (“il rrmanente”), Sassetti’s 
travel “sperienza” included the sensorial excitement (“concedere al senso”) of 
sailing around the world to places yet to be found. His narrative gained complexity 
and depth beyond “vedere e toccare e scrivere,” as he reaped the immense pleasure 
of traveling through the theater of the world (“quanto diletto mi abbia recato 
el vedere questa parte”), admiring “tanta diversita che 10 m1 maravigho della mara- 
vigha” (387). But, just as in Pigafetta’s dazzling Viaggio atorno il mondo, published 
in 1550 by Ramusio in his Navigagioni e viaggi, keywords like “meraviglia,” 
“meravigliare,” and “meraviglioso” underscore a narrative strategy that will 
inevitably lead to fictional writing.’ The explorer’s fascinating account ts a 
foretaste of new developments. 


Verifiable Displacements: 
Ambassadors, Cardinals, and Their Secretaries 


Upon returning from a mission abroad, it was customary for Venetian 
ambassadors to present to the Senate an official redazzone, a summary of the state 
of the country where they had been. It was a political analysis, impersonal and 
objective, only rarely offering commentary on the grueling life of ambassadors 
on the road. There was no idle talk in reports that were kept in the archives 
of the Republic as important state documents.'’ Ambassadors had to justify 
their expenses in detail, for Venetian accounting was precise and unforgiving. 


16. Another travel account, Francesco Carletti’s Ragtonamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo, 
described his unstinting commercial journey (1591-1606) around the world (“il suo grande e 
maravigloso viaggio, ch’egli fece in circondare tutto Universo per via dell’Indie occidentali 
dette Mondo Nuovo, et da quelle all’Indie orientali, et suo ritorno,” 3). Carletti’s mercantile 
maraviglia is applied to the wealth he observed, particularly in Peru, a toponym that was already 
acquiring an antonomastic connotation for the enormous profits that merchants were quickly 
making there (his ecstatic description of local merchants sleeping on stacks of silver ingots, 47- 
48 ); and his astonishment at the exceptionally honest attitude of the merchants in Goa (“€ cosa 
di maraviglia Yosservanza della realta et fedelta in tutte le loro attioni,” 217). 


17. Orazio Busino, who in 1613 accompanied ambassador Pietro Contarini to Oxford, was 
surprised to see in the Bodleian Library “un tomo in folio, pieno di relazioni venete, alla barba 
della secretezza” (Venice, Bibl. Marciana, Ital. VII, 1122, f 81v). It was probably the volume 
of secret political notes (MS Bodl. 911) that Sir Richard Spenser gave to the Library in 1603. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 17 


The Venetian Republic was so interested in her ambassadors’ reports that 
it provided them with this detailed plan to follow: 


Queste cose si ricercano per fare una relazione. Prima descrivere il sito della 
provincia nella quale sara stato, anteponendo principalmente il nome antico 
e moderno della detta provincia, mostrando in qual parte del mondo et in 
che disposizione del cielo si ritrovino i suoi confini dalle quattro parti, la sua 
larghezza e circuito, in quanti e quali regni o provincie minoni sia divisa, 
nondimeno nominando le citta principali, le fortezze, arcivescovati e vescova- 
ti, gli fiumi principali e villaggi, gli monti e selve e gli passi circonvicini ad 
essa pertinent. 

Bisogna trattare delle qualita di essa provincia, come sarebbe a dire della 
temperatura dell’aere, bonta e tnistizia; delle acque e della bonta loro similmen- 
te e tristizia; della fertilita o sterilita delle biade et altre cose, se pertinent al 
vivere umano; delle miniere, degli animali; se il paese € montuoso, piano, 
selvoso, paludoso, e dove; qual parte sia meglio abitata et in qual parte siano 
selve o paludi che impediscono l’abitarvi, e se vi e alcun meraviglioso effetto 
di natura. 

Conviene ragionare degli abitatori suoi, mostrando gli loro costumi et abit, 
di che colore, statura o disposizione siano; se sono religiosi, superstiziosi e 
di altra particolare religione; l’ordine et apparato delle guerre per terra e per 
mare. Delle loro arti, et in che piu si esercitano e vagliano; quali merci 
mandano fuori e pigliano da’ forestieri; del governo delli primi principi o 
padroni, di loro ricchezze, nobilta e seguito; delle nature e condizioni della 
plebe. 

Bisogna venire al particolare del principe e narrare la genealogia sua, 
descrivendo la persona, la vita che fa et 1 costumi suoi, come sia amato da’ 
suoi sudditi, quante siano le sue entrate e quante spese facci; la guardia che 
tiene, la grandezza della sua corte e con qual principe abbia amicizia o inimici- 


zia.'® 


By comparing one ambassador’s re/azione with those of his predecessors, the 
Senate could monitor the political evolution of Venice’s relationship with other 
countries. 

Contarini, a splendid example of an ambassador-on-the-road, ordered his 
secretaries to record in detail travels to Turin, London, Madrid, and Rome.” 


But in the course of an ambassador’s journey there was also a wealth of 
personal note-taking. 


18. This text, found in a 16th-century manuscript in the Biblioteca Marciana (Ms. It. VI, 187) 


was published by Pietro Donazzolo (I viaggiatori veneti minor. Roma: Reale Societa Geografica 
Italiana, 1927, 6-7). 


19. My edition of Pietro Contarini’s travel journals in various European cities is forthcoming. 


18 LUIGI MONGA 


Ho incontrato un viaggio di otto mesi continui npieno di dispendu ed incomo- 
di indicibili, per la strettezza di tutte le cose levate dalla corte e dagli esercit 
fra’ quali conveniva camminare. Miho trovato aver la maggior parte de’ miei 
ammalati, alcuni me ne sono morti; ho convenuto lasciar per il cammino 
diversi cavalli, e nel mio particolare ho sentito patimento tale che solo la bonta 
del Signore Iddio e quell’ardore che aveva nel servizio valse a preservarmi. 
Mi sono astenuto da portare alla notizia delle Eccellenze Vostre con mie 
lettere simili particolari, e di supplicarle di quel benigno atuto con che cortese- 
mente sono stati sovvenuti tutti gli altri loro ambasciaton, per non apportarle 
molestia e non far diminuire in alcuna parte l’intiero della mia obbligazione 
nello spendere la vita e le sostanze nel loro servizio (Pietro Contarini, 
“Relatione di Francia” in Relazioni degh ambasciatori veneti: V1: Francia, ed. L. 
Firpo, Torino, 1978, 561). 


When Girolamo Lando left Venice for England on October 6, 1616, he 
charged his manservant, Ortensio, to pen a report of daily events, a semi-official 
document to be used by the ambassador to report the chronology of his journey, 
justify his expenses, and offer “una giusta relatione e informatione delli paesi 
e loro costumi.”” 

It is conceivable that the ambassador, actor and witness of the narrative, 
would have checked Ortensio’s text, leaving the writer little leeway for 
embellishment. An “autobiographie déléguée,” as Adrien Pasquali called this 
form of writing,” it is the true narrative of a journey taken by his master, just 
as Horace’s “Iter Brundisium” reflected the journey of Maecenas to Brindisi. 

Cardinal Luigi d’Aragona, before starting a long European tour in 1517, 
asked a modest priest, Antonio de Beatis, to join his retinue in order to “scrivere, 
giornata per giornata, loco per loco, et miglia per miglia, quante citta, terre et 
ville continuamente se cavalcavano, con annotamento particulare de /ucte /e cose 
digne [che] li trovavamo.”* Proud of being a part of that “solazevole itinerario,” 
De Beatis assured his reader that he “non trovera altro che verita de le cose, 
over da me oculatamente viste o relate da persone di auctorita grande et degne 
di ogni credito e fede.” As De Beatis was recording the European journeys 
of Cardinal Luigi d’Aragona, an anonymous Milanese merchant visiting his 


20. L. Monga, “Il diario del viaggio a Londra dell'ambasciatore Girolamo Lando (1619),” 
Miscellanea Marciana (V enezia), 15 (2000): 79-111. 


21. “Récit de voyage et autobiographie,” Ad 14 (1996): 80. 


22. Antonio de Beatis, Die Reise des Kardinals Luigi d’Aragona durch Deitschland, die Nederlande, 
Frankreich und Oberttalien, 1517-1518, ed. Ludwig Pastor (Fribourg, Herder, 1905), 90. De 
Beatis’s text was translated by John R. Hale (Londres, Hakluyt Society, 1979) and André 
Chastel (Paris: Fayard, 1986; Bari, Laterza, 1987); we are using here the Italian text established 
by Pastor. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 19 


partners in various European countries” wrote a journal to guide other 
merchants about to undertake the same journey. He included the daily distances, 
the names of the inns where he stopped, the churches where he prayed, even 
the borde/i where he sought entertainment. 

Good secretaries hid behind their masters, giving them all the credit and 
taking pride in serving them for, as Cesare Magalotti wrote to Cardinal 
Francesco Barberini, in the dedication of his “Viaggio di Francia” (1624): “le 
azioni sono di chi le fa e non di chi le scrive.”* This kind of supervised 
narrative, double-checked by the writer’s superiors, was also available to an 
audience that could eventually verify its accuracy. One of these narratives, Mon- 
taigne’s Journal de voyage en Itake, has been scrutinized by scholars who have 
attempted to define Montaigne’s role in shaping the text.” 

At times the travel journal was geared to establish a protocol and to record 
in detail all the public ceremonies that in similar circumstances other diplomats 
would have to follow. Ironclad documentation was required when Flavio Car- 
dinal Chigi, nephew to Pope Alexandre VII, went to the court of Louis XIV as 
legatus a Jatere to offer the official apologies of the pope after a diplomatic 
incident. The delicate situation of his mission required detailed knowledge of 
the fastidious ceremonies of seventeenth-century courts, where the number of 
steps taken by a host accompanying a high-ranking visitor needed to be 
remembered. Chigi left Rome with a copy of the journal written by Cesare 
Magalotti during a similar journey taken forty years earlier by Francesco Cardinal 
Barberini.” The objectivity of these documents and the effort to certify all 
details needed to be absolute. The dignity of ambassadors and the gravity of 


23. L. Monga, Un mercante di Milano in Europa: diario di viaggio del primo Cinquecento, (Milano: 
Edizioni Universitarte Jaca, 1985). 


24. Cesare Magalotti, “Viaggio di Francia dell’Eminent.”°.e Rev.”° Sig" Cardinal Francesco 
Barberino, Vice Cancelliere di S. Chiesa, Nipote e Legato a Latere di N.® Sig.” Urbano VIII 
Pontefice Massimo, Roma, Bibl. Vat., Barb. Lat. 5686, f 3r. 


25. For an analogous situation, Montaigne’s Journal de voyage, written in part by his anonymous 
secretary, see L. Monga,“Ecriture viatique et fiction littéraire: voyageurs et ‘secrétaires’ autour 
du Journal de voyage de Montaigne,” Montaigne Studies, 15 (2003): 9-19. 


26. Chigi’s journey was also recorded for Louis XIV by Paul Fréart de Chantelou in “Mémoire 
du traitement fait par la Maison du Roi a Monsieur le Cardinal Chigi, Légat a latere en France,” 
Paris, Bibl. Nat. MS Cing Cents Colbert, n° 175. Chigi’s texts are in “Registro della Legation 
di Francia dell’Eminen.”° Sig.‘ Cardinale Chigi,” “Relatione del viaggio fatto dall’Em.”° Sig. 
Card. Flavio Chigi, nipote della Sant“ di N. S. Alessandro VII spedito in Francia alla Maesta del 
Re Christianissimo Luigi XIV,” Rome, Bibl. Vat., Chig. E II] 35 and 38. I would like to thank 
Dr. Gregory A. Pass of the Vatican Library at Saint Louis University for his help in identifying 
for me these manuscripts of the Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana. 


20 LUIGI MONGA 


their mission excluded any fiction. 


Erasmus’s Travel Letters: Narrative As Entertainment 


Accipe, mi Beate, totam itineris mei tragicomoediam (Letter n. 867, 15 
October 1518) 


A letter, according to Erasmus, is an exchange of personal news: “significamus 
amico si quid nove rei gestum sit apud nos aut quod illi voluptatem sit allatu- 
rum, sive privatum sit illud, sive publicum” (in “De extraordinarus generibus 
epistolarum” in De conscribendis epistolis in Opera omnia, 1, 2:541).”’ It must have 
simplicity, clarity, brevity (“nunciatio simplex et lucida esse debet, brevis 
preterea et distincta,” I, 2:541), as it was established by Demetris of Phaleron, 
a 4th-century B.C. Greek rhetorician in his Pert Ermeneias (On Styl): “A letter’s 
aim is to express friendship briefly, and set out a simple subject in simple 
terms.”** The recipient of a letter understands it as an expression of a hic et nunc 
experience, for the writer is supposed to be in a specific location, describing 
a personal experience. Ovid claimed that in his Trstza, his elegiac letters were 
written on the ship that brought him to exile, and readers would not quibble 
with the poet’s solemn oath that he wrote in a December storm: 


Littera quecumque est toto tibi lecta libello, 
est mihi sollicito tempore facta viz. 
Aut hec me, gelido tremerem cum mense Decembn, 
scribentem mediis Hadria vidit aquis. (Tristia I, 11, 1-2) 


But letter writing was also a time-honored literary device, for real letters were 
rewritten for publication, to portray the writer in a more favorable light. 

A letter Erasmus wrote to Beatus Rhenanus is one of the most engaging 
travel narratives of the Renaissance. Erasmus’s own definition (tragicomedia) 
offers his own understanding of this narrative: a hodeporicum with a happy ending 
(comedia), a personal account of difficult roads, dangerous engagements with 
thieves, and the fear of being struck by the plague, paying tribute to acquain- 
tances and patrons in a conversational style reminiscent of Horace’s humiks sermo 
to Maecenas in his “Iter Brundisium”: the first-person account, the realistic 


27. See also Yvonne Bellenger, “Le Récit de voyage par lettres dans le Nouveau Voyage dTtalie 
de Misson,” in B. Bray and C. Strosetski (eds.), Art de /a lettre, art de la conversation a l'époque 
classique en France (Paris: Klincksieck, 1995): 305-323. 


28. Demetrius “On Style,” 231 in Aristotle, Longinus, Demetrius (Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
1999): 485. Gaius Julius Victor, a 4th-century A.D. rhetorician specified the basic principle of 
letter writing: brevitas, lucc, iocus, gratia. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 21 


details of the journey, with specific dates, distances, and toponyms, a chronology 
of facts, names, and dangers witnessed during the displacement. A light-hearted 
attitude, the use of direct speech patterns, and the numerous asides and 
parentheses, are typical elements of chatting with close friends. Not only 
Erasmus’s letters, but even some of his Colloquia (“Diversoria,” “Naufragium,” 
and “Peregrinatio religionis ergo”), as realistic vignettes of real travel occur- 
rences, show a travel narrative that transcends most generic distinctions. 


Petrarch, Alberti and Coulon: Collecting Information 


Quid varietatem ac numerum historiarum, quas vel de veterum 
monumentis vel de recentium scriptorum libris co//egisti memorem? Et 
omnibus in locis que digna cognitu intercidunt pulchnitudinem et copiam expli- 
cem? (From a letter by Giovanni Antonio Flaminio to Leandro Alberti 
[May 1, 1537] as a preface to Alberti’s Descrittione di tutta Italia) 


Among the first Italian works to attempt an objective description of a journey, 
Petrarch’s Itinerarium breve de Ianua usque ad Ierusalem et Terram Sanctam appears 
to be a real itinerary, addressed to a “vir optimus” (3.1), Giovannolo Guido 
da Mandello who was planning a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Petrarch, afraid 
of seafaring (“petorem morte [...] nauseam metuo,” 5), declined to accompany 
him to Jerusalem, offering, instead, a short, descriptive guidebook. Admittedly, 
Petrarch’s goal was to offer Giovannolo a spiritual guide (“primum [...] que 
ad salutem anime, dehinc que ad notitiam rerum et ingenii ornamentum, “1). 
While the journey from Genoa to Naples is an example of real travel narrative, 
based on Petrarch’s numerous seafaring experiences, from Naples on the sources 
of his Itnerarium ate taken from classical and Christian authors; Petrarch 
admitted that he had not seen the sites he described (“ea certe necdum vidi 
omnia, nec umquam forte visurus sum,” 3.1). Finally, as a sort of postmodern 
conclusion that evokes Horace’s link between charta and via (see supra, 12), out 
land-bound poet attempted to connect Giovannolo’s long voyage by sea and 
foreign lands to his own writing:” Giovannolo plowing for three months the 
land by foot and the seas with oars (“tu remis ac pedibus maria”), Petrarch 
plowing the blank paper with his pen (“ego hanc papirum calamo properante 


29. Acknowledging that his fear of sea traveling and sea-sickness prevented him from 
embarking in such a meritorious enterprise (2.15) after speaking so eloquently about the 
pilgrimage to the Holy Land, Petrarch lamely concludes that his thalassophobia was a natural 
impulse (“frenum”) to refrain from succumbing to vain distractions (“Hoc forsan animo vago 
et rerum novarum inexplebili oculo frenum posuit natura,” 2.18). If, as recent scholars seem 
to believe, Giovannolo never made his pilgrimage, Petrarch’s Itinerarium was a travel narrative 
written by a sedentary writer for a sedentary traveler. 


22 LUIGI MONGA 


sulcaverim,” 18, 2).*° The preeminence of the intellectual’s speed over the man 
of action is clear.’ In three days of strenuous and fast writing, Petrarch has 
covered the territory his friend traveled during three months (“certe ego 1am 
scribendi fatigatus sum eoque magis quo ce/eris incessi; quod enim iter tu forte 
tribus vix mensibus, hoc ego triduo consummavi,” 18, 2). And the word 
“Ttinerarium” is both the journey and the writing of the journey, a task that is 
meant to include one’s experience in the limited space of the written word, and 
to translate visual experiences and personal thoughts into a set of written codes 
that readers will transfer once more into a mental text.” The return home and 
the end of the text are events to celebrate: “Brundisium finis chartaque vieque.” 

As in Boccaccio’s De montibus, silvis, fontibus, lacubus, fluminibus, stagnis seu 
paludibus, et de nominibus maris, Petrarch’s narrative is based on an encyclopedic 
knowledge. So did Leandro Alberti, collecting an enormous amount of material 
from various sources (ancient as well as contemporary) before writing his 
Deserittione di tutta Itaha, the guidebook that could be found in the luggage of 
most sixteenth-century travelers to Italy. Alberti’s extensive information (“que 
digna cognitu”) in a beautiful and rich text (“pulchritudo et copia”), as Giovanni 
Antonio Flaminio aptly pointed out in his preface, eventually helped creating 
the guidebook for the discerning traveler to Italy who sought pleasure (“maiore 
cum voluptate”) both in reading and in traveling. But Alberti only rarely offers 
a glimpse of personal commentary. In his description of the Grotta di Posillipo, 
for example, after quoting Columella and Strabo on the history of the tunnel 
that connects Naples with the Phlegraean Fields, Alberti appears in the flesh: 
“Ja qual [grotta] 0 curtosamente volendo vedere, la misurat e /a ritrovai esset larga oltre 
di dodici piedi et altro tanto alta” (italics mine). For a brief moment the reader 
is brought into the realm of realistic reporting (“vedere e toccare e scrivere”), 
but just before entering the tunnel Alberti is overpowered by the need to show 
off his numerous literary sources (Seneca, Razano, fra Zenobio Acciaiuolo, 
Livius, Servius, Plutarch, Paolo Giovio, and Flavio Biondo). Exiting the grofta, 


30. A curious intertextual connection could be drawn between this metaphor and the 


> 


“Indovinello veronese,” a 9th-century document in Italian in which the act of writing is 
described as plowing through the white field of paper with a white pen that sows the black 
seeds of letters: “Se pareba boves / alba pratalia araba / et albo versorio teneba / et negro 


semen seminaba.” 


31. A few years later, with an intellectual’s sprezzatura, Petrarch, who had never be to Crete, 
wrote a description of that island (Senifia 4.1) for Luchino dal Verme, a capitano di ventura who 


was preparing to go to Crete to suppress a rebellion against the Venetians. 


32. Willis Barnstone, The Poetics of Translation: History, Theory, Practice (New Haven: Yale UP, 
1993), 20. I owe this interesting bibliographical suggestion to my friend and colleague, Carmine 
Di Biase, of Jacksonville State University. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 23 


he shares nothing of his personal experience, and he is loses himself in other 
details. Checking and reporting everything is indeed the extent of his curiositas. 

Other sixteenth-century guidebooks, thinly disguised as personal journals, 
are just well-researched, objective descriptions, detailing history and archaeology, 
artworks and inscriptions, a mixture of field observations, practical details on 
economics, civil engineering, politics, and medical considerations. Their travel 
narrative is often reduced to a thin thread tying together long lists. 

In France, Louis Coulon offers yet another kind of guidebook, L’U/ysse 
frangois, ou Le Voyage de France, de Flandre et de Savoye (1643). A pleasant mix 
of anecdotes, historical information, and realistic bits on what to see and do 
around French-speaking countries, L’U/jsse starts with the departure from 
England of an anonymous individual (an “Ulysse Gallo-Belgique,” 2) who 
intends to visit “les plus belles places du monde” (2). Ulysses stops at the 
border to state his identity, declares the goods he is carrying, and spends the 
night in a real inn in Calais (“La Sirene Sauvage”). As a strategic plot to entice 
his audience, Ulysses is the traveling character, described with the third-person 
pronoun “il”: “// monte dans un vaisseau, [...] é/ se trouve le lendemain” (2); 
“1/ prit la route, [...] /s’arresta [...], / entra dans la ville” (34). Soon, however, 
the author takes over, entering the picture with a more personal “je”: “ce scais 
bien” (6); “ze finis cette description” (10); “ce ne peux obmettre” (13); “se passe 
vite” (49). Buta variety of other subject pronouns appears: traveler and writer 
become an undetermined on (“on va souper,” 4; “on prend son logis,” 12; “on 
monte a cheval ou en carosse,” 15); a generous nous (“nous aurions de la peine,” 
27; “nous verrons,” 42; “nous fusmes trés mal logeés, [...] nous reprismes nos 
armes,” 217); even a prescriptive vous (“vous avez de plus,” 42) and i/ faut 
(“d’Amsterdam #/ faut venir 4 Utrecht, qui sont cing lieués de chemin fascheux 
a cause des rivieres qu’i/ faut traverser,” 163); and a combination of expressed 
or understood pronouns (“ayans veu la ville, voyons les faux-bourgs; vous avex 
le Banc sur la main gauche,” 89). A mixing of past and present tenses is used, 
interchangeably, as if Coulon is uncertain whether to describe the trip previously 
undertaken by Ulysses or the journey which és being now performed, vicariously, 
by the reader himself. And Coulon’s attempt to set a chronology of the journey 
fails miserably after his statement that on May 1 “Ulysses” has landed in Calais, 
probably from England (4). As the writer/traveler moves freely around the 
Continent, his only chronologic marker is the number of days he spends in each 
city. Like Alberti’s Descrittione, Coulon’s U/sses is not a travel journal, but simply 
a guidebook that freely mixes objective information with barely a hint that the 
writer really did undertake a journey. 


33. Louis Coulon’s Usysse frangois is translated from Abraham Gdlnitz’s Ulysses belgico-gallucus 
(1631), but we consider it here in its own value for its great popularity in 17th-century France. 


24 LUIGI MONGA 


Travel Diary to Hodoeporic Novel: 
Sebastiano Locatelli’s “vagabonde leggerezze” 


In tutti i resoconti di viaggio circola un’intenzione letteraria mai 
completamente rimossa (Cardona 692). 


By definition, a travel diary is the journal of the daily occurrences in an 
individual’s journey, jotted down usually at the end of each day.™ It reflects 
the spontaneity of the author’s impressions and can at times contain factual 
misconceptions that the author might wish to correct at a later date. It is 
extremely rare for modern scholars to find original diaries, particularly for 16th- 
and 17th-century journeys. Written under stress, on fragile tablets and in 
conditions that affected their legibility, they have usually been superseded by 
an emended version.” A writer who revised a text for publication would not 
risk leaving to posterity written proof of discrepancies between the two versions. 
Thus, the original conveniently disappeared, leaving only the improved version, 
ready to be offered to numerous readers. 

Just so, a portion of the journal of Sir Thomas Hoby’s journey to Italy 
(1548-1550) was penned in the winter of 1554-1555 during Hoby’s stay in 
Padua, where he had come to study. To the original notes taken during his trip, 
Hoby added material pillaged from a number of guidebooks. 

John Evelyn’s Kakendarium, another major example of personal journal and 
travel diary in seventeenth-century English literature consists of Evelyn’s original 
notes, supplemented with information gathered from numerous printed sources. 
His account of the French portion of his journey was largely based on Claude 
de Varennes’s Le Voyage de France (1643), which, in turn, was taken from Justus 
Zinzerling’s [tinerarium Galhe (1617). 

These and other sources were used by Sebastiano Locatelli for his Viaggio 
dt Franca, the account of a journey that occurred in 1664-1665, but underwent 
at least three major rewritings between 1666 and 1693. Its third and final 


34. Fastidious German travelers were humorously portrayed by Saint-Evremont as fussy diary 
writers: “Nous avons aussi un journal ou nous €crivons nos remarques, a l’instant méme que 
nous les faisons; rarement nous attendons jusqu’au soir; mais jamais voyageur allemand ne s’est 
couché sans avoir mis sur le papier ce qu'il a vu durant la journée” (Str Politick Would-Be [1705], 
ed. R. Finch et E. Jollat. Paris-Geneva: Droz, 1978, 57). 


35. One exception, perhaps, is the anonymous journal of a young Frenchman who traveled to 
Italy in 1588-1589. I had the good fortune of finding and publishing his daily notes—blurred, 
unevenly-written pages, penned at the end of each day (Diéscours viatiques). The traveler’s 
experience transcended the banality of his text. Undoubtedly tired after a long day of 
horseback riding, surrounded by a motley crowd of fellow lodgers, the young writer was 
concerned only with capturing in unpolished but vivid notes the memory of what he had just 
experienced. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 25 


version of the Viaggio,” shares little with the first extant text. From Hoby to 
Locatelli, most sixteenth- and seventeenth-century travel writers visited the same 
sites in Europe, read the same guidebooks, and when they revised their notes 
for publication kept pillaging the same sources. That is why their accounts bear 
an uncanny resemblance to each other. 

Locatelli’s Viaggio di Francia, however, has a more complex genesis. 
Defined by its author as a congeries of light-hearted autobiographical tidbits 
(“vagabonde leggerezze,” 43, and “spropositi della [sua] penna giovanile,” 44), 
it displays a stylistic sprezzatura that runs the gamut from a self-deprecating 
jocularity to a not-so-secret desire to enhance his reputation among his readers 
(“la pubblica curiosita de’ nostri congiunti”). Lacking international savvy, 
Locatelli, a small town priest with grand ambitions for a diplomatic career, 
embarked on his writing exercise to offer his sedentary relatives the pleasure 
of taking a trip without leaving their homes (“fare un si lungo viaggio sedendo,” 
46).*’ But Locatelli transformed a trip that many small-time peddlers undertook 
periodically at that time* into an odyssey of grand proportions. Abbé Locatelli 
was very good at hiding the sources he so shamelessly pillaged: Franz Schott’s 
Itinerarta Itahe rerumque romanarum allowed him to show off an antiquarian’s 
knowledge of art and history, while Claude de Varenne’s Voyage de France 
provided him with French customs and laws for his introduction (32-34). For 
thirty years Locatelli kept rewriting his anemic travelog, expanding it in three 
versions to create a baroque literary ¢heatrum in which he played the role of an 
international traveler who moved in aristocratic circles, spoke to Louis XIV and 
was entertained by beautiful princesses. Forgetting that he had admitted his 
total ignorance of French, he portrayed himself as the confidant of the Parisian 
aristocracy and reported the gossip he heard in that circle. Finally, when his 
return was interrupted by a quarantine at the Italian border, he even used his 
free time, alas, to write a tragedy. 

The close ties of seventeenth-century travel narrative with novels are 
related to the readers’ need to “devour with pleasure” entertaining books, as 
the Francois Bertaud’s publisher wrote in his introduction to the Journal de voyage 
d Espagne (1669). Bertaud’s book offered “des choses aussi curieuses qu’il y 
en ait en pas une histoire, et d’aussi agréables qu’il y en ait en aucun roman.” 


36. See Vincenzo De Caprio’s detailed analysis of the stylistic and historical problems of 
Giuseppe Acerbi’s numerous versions and translations of his travel journal to Cape North 
(1798-1832). 


37. A topos often repeated by travel writers, as in Jacques de Villamont’s preface to the readers 
of his Voyages (Paris, 1600): “Francois [...], sans changer d’air faictes ce long voyage.” 


38. He mentions the useful travel advice he received from an Italian dog-breeder who 
periodically crossed the Mont Cenis to supply the king’s Court with his miniature dogs (“cani 
piccoli bolognest”) that were the rage in 17th-century Paris (135-138). 


2%6 LUIGI MONGA 


We enter a new area of travel narrative. Writers catered to a public who 
demanded exciting stories, vaguely related to the exotic charm of a fictitious 
New World, for, as Antoine Du Périer admitted, the aim of his story was just 
“donner du contentement aux belles dames.” Bertaud’s journal was based 
on the assumption that “il ne se passe point de jour dans tout un voyage ou 
il n’arrive quelque avanture et ot l’on ne voye quelque chose d’extraordinaire” 
(Bertaud Iv). The result of such a process was “un genre metoyen entre [les 
romans] et [les histoires], en ce qu’ils ne traitent que les avantures des particu- 
liers, comme les romans, mais avec plus de vérité et plus d’exactitude encore 
que les histoires” (Bertaud IV). We can deny plausibility to a narrative such 
as Du Périer’s, in which lions, tigers, and castles appeared in the wilderness of 
Canada, a world where none of his readers had ever been, but less obvious, 
yet false details may still hinder our efforts to make absolute truth the litmus 
test that separates travel narrative from works of fiction. 


“Letters from Italy” /“Lettres de Italie”: 
18th-Century Travel Epistolography 


While eighteenth-century naturalists and astronomers came back from their 
explorations in the Pacific Ocean, and began writing about their exotic 
adventures,"' a host of unperturbed aristocratic and bourgeois Grand Tourists 
kept to their journey to Europe’s highlights, picking up a little culture on the 
way. Not all Grand Tourists were vapid individuals craving to hobnob with 
the local aristocracy; many of them explored cultural differences with the same 
curiosity naturalists studied the local flora and cartographers attempted to 
determine geographic coordinates, but publishers continued to produce exotic 
narratives,” editorial repéchages,” and mendacious travel accounts (Adams 1962). 

Epistolography was the favorite literary medium of this period from sen- 


39. Antoine Du Périer, Les Amours de Pistion et de Fortunie [1606], ed. R. Arbour (Ottawa: Les 
Editions de Université d’Ottawa, 1973): 128. 


40. “Libraire au Lecteur” in Journal du voyage d Espagne [...]. Paris: Denis Thierry, 1669: Iv, 
quoted by Sylvie Requemora (“Du roman au récit, du récit au roman: le voyage comme genre 
’métoyen’ au XVII° siécle, de Du Périer 4 Regnard” in Roman et Récits de voyage , forthcoming). 


41. Joseph Banks, a young millionaire who accompanied the “Endeavour” expedition of 1768, 
is said to have remarked with contempt that “every blockhead” could engage in the traditional 
Grand Tour of Europe: “My Grand Tour,” he added, “shall be one around the world.” 


42. In the very beginning of the 18th century Francesco Gemelli Carreri had published two 
important travel narratives: Giro del mondo (1699-1708) and Viagg in Europa (1700-1708). 


43. See Filippo Sassetti’s travel letters in the Raccolta di prose fiorentine (Florence: Tartini e 
Franchi, 1716-1745) and Montaigne’s Journal de voyageen Italie published by Meunier de Querlon 
in 1774. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 27 


timental novels“ to political’ and religious pamphlets, to general advice for 
friends and relatives. A cursory glance at the catalogs of eighteenth-century 
printed books reveals hundreds of titles in French, English, Italian, and German, 
proclaiming their choice of form: “Lettere,” “Lettres,” “Letters,” “Briefe,””’ 
but the title of Maximilien Misson’s Nouveau voyage d'Ttake hid the fact that it 
was the first epistolary travel narrative published in France. 

For centuries Italy had attracted so many scholarly visitors that eighteenth- 
century travelers were under the impression that nothing new could be written 
about her, as De Brosses noted not without exasperation ( “Aprés tout, que 
pourrai-je vous dire sur [I’Italie] qui ne fat un rabachage perpétuel?” II, 2). 
Letter-writing provided a means to emphasize the personality of the narrator. 
It was the perfect solution to introducing the writer as well as the sites, as Mis- 
son acknowledged: “les lettres, comme 1’a fort bien dit M. de Balzac, sont des 
conversations par écrit’ (Misson, f° 4v), written in a “style concis, [...] libre et 
familier” (f° 6v). 

As an appendix to his Nouveau voyage d'Ttake (four editions from 1691 to 


44. Mrs. Courtney, Isabinda of Bellefield; A Sentimental Novel in A Series of Letters (Dublin: P. 
Wogan ef a/., 1795); Mrs. Holford, Fanny: A Novel, in_A Series of Letters (Dublin: Colles, Parker, 
et al., 1786; The Affected Indifference; A Sentimental Novel in A Series of Letters (Dublin: C. Jackson, 
1781); and many, many others. 


45. William Dickinson, Letters on Slavery (London: J. Phillips, 1789); Helen Maria Williams, 
Letters from France, Containing Many New Anecdotes Relative to the French Revolution (London: 
Robinson, 1792). 


46. Sailors’ Letters; Letters from a Midshipman in the Royal Navy to His Friend and Brother Officer |...| 
(Plymouth: Nettleton, 1800). 


47. Among the French and Italian titles, these should suffice: Lettres Péruviennes (Mme de 
Grafigny, 1775), Lettres sur les Anglois et les Frangois et les voiages ( Louis Béat de Muralt, 1726), 
Lettres philosophiques (Voltaire, 1734), Lettres juives (Marquis d’Argens, 1736), Lettres sur l'Ttale 
(Anne-Marie Du Bocage, 1768), Lettres sur [Ttalie en 1785 (Charles-Marguerite Jean-Baptiste 
Dupaty, 1788), Lettres historiques et critiques sur I'talie (Charles de Brosses, 1799), Lettres dTtahe 
(Jean-Jacques Barthélemy, 1802), even Montesquieu’s Lettres persanes (1721). Lettere virgtliane 
and Dodici lettere inglesi sopra vari argomenti e sopra la letteratura italiana principalmente (Saverio 
Bettinelli, 1751 and 1766), Lettere familiari ai suoi tre fratelli (Giuseppe Baretti, 1762), Lettere 
familiar’ e critiche (Vincenzo Martinelli, 1776), Lettere/...] sopra alcune particolarita della Baviera ed altri 
paesi della Germania (Giovanni Lodovico Bianconi, 1763), Lettere ad un amico (Angelo Maria 
Bandini, 1776), Lettere odeporiche (Angelo Gualandri, 1780), Lettre odeporiche di Venezia, Trieste, 
.. (Francesco Griselini, 1780), Lettere scritte da pix parti dEuropa ... nel 1783 (Francesco Luini, 
1785), Lettere brandeburghesi (Carlo Denina, 1786), Lettera sopra un picciol viaggio (Francesco della 
Torre di Rezzonico, 1792), Viaggi alle Due Sicilie e in alcune parti dell’Appennino (Lazzaro Spallan- 
zani, 1792-1797), Lettere sopra lInghilterra, la Scozia e ’Olanda (Luigi Angiolini, 1790), Vaggto per 
[Ttalia [...] esposto in un corso di lettere critiche ed erndite (Gioseffo Comoldi Caminieri, 1800). 


28 LUIGI MONGA 


1702) Misson added a theoretical discussion of travel narrative, which for him 
was essentially the story of a physical displacement. If this appears to beg the 
question, it was because too many travel narratives of the past were just a series 
of plagiarized vignettes on cities and countries, their art troves and political 
systems. Naturally, as all travelers did before him, Misson shamelessly pillaged 
his sources, expanded his original text after he returned home, and criticized 
the “prétendu voyageur qui ne voyage point; il saute de ville en ville, en pillant 
ca et la ses méchans livres [...]; tout dur, tout aride, et mille choses inutiles et 
fausses” (“Avis au Lecteur”). Horace’s fundamental instruction, de/ectare and 
prodesse, the writers’ guiding motto, mirrored the instinctive tendency of the 
writer to “agrémenter son texte” (Ibd.), sprinkling it with a touch of intriguing 
fiction, a sure way to gain readers. 

Having determined that the description of a real journey was a sine qua non, 
Misson admitted that such “a relation véritable” would be more effective as 
a series of letters to his friends; the literary dignity of the epistolary form allowed 
him to insert erudite details, anecdotes of historical background, even hints of 
a socio-political analysis, all desirable elements for his readers,“ for Misson’s 
letters were intended as intelligent conversations among friends (“J’ai commerce 
de lettres avec un ami [...], et ce sont mes lettres que je publie,” “Avis au Lec- 
teur”). This “agréable entretien” allowed the writer to avoid the stilted language 
of books, jump freely from one topic to another, go beyond the chronological 
order of the facts, engage in digressions, even use the colloquial formulas that 
added life to real conversations: “puisque vous voulez savoir,” “vous me deman- 
dez,” “pour répondre aux questions que vous me faites,” etc. The same 
digressions that would be censored as incongruous in a treatise were deemed 
appropriate in letters. And Misson’s book, the vademecum for travelers to Italy, 
the target of travelers who loved to catch his mistakes, incurred, as a commercial 
blessing, the anathema of the Inquisition for anti-Catholic spirit.” 

But bienséance would not allow eighteenth-century authors to deal with 
matters of mere private concern. Even the recently discovered manuscript of 
Montaigne’s Journal de voyage was described by an anonymous reviewer as just 
“un manuel des eaux minerales de I’Italie [et] un relevé des pierres que leur vertu 
a fait rendre a l’auteur.”*’ And the anonymous editor of the Letters from Italy 


48. “C’est la lettre qui est le modéle littéraire le mieux adapté [to Misson’s goal], car elle a, en 
plus, l’avantage de ne pas manquer totalement de prestige historique et littéraire” (Harder 73). 


49. De Brosses’s complaint that the Roman police confiscated his copy of Misson’s book was, 
probably, a device to make readers believe that he could not have plagiarized Misson. 


50. Revue rétrospective, ou Bibliothéque historique, sé. 11, tome VII, 196-197. And Boucher de la 
Richarderie accused Montaigne’s Journal of being just “un bulletin fastidieux de remarques 
journaliéres sur sa santé et sur les effets des eaux minérales dont il faisoit usage” (Bibliotheque 
universaelle des voyages. Paris, 1808, 1, 293). 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 29 


by an English aristocrat, Anna Riggs Miller (London: E. and Ch. Dilly, 1777), 
admitted in his preface censoring many “private” passages that were not 
considered “objects of information or entertainment to the public” (1: vi). 

With an automatically plausible background, the truthfulness of the letter 
writer seems undeniable, for “it [would be] a misuse of time to offer proofs 
of their authenticity, which shew so clearly and unequivocally through every 
page of these volumes” (1: vi). The “artless, ingenuous narration thrown on 
paper immediately [...] in the midst of fatigue, in moments unfavorable to 
precision, and unfriendly to reflection” (1: vi-vii) justifies the writer’s stylistic 
platitudes, making allowances, as Anna Miller does on 20-21 September 1770, 
“for the inaccuracies of [her] letter, for the barrenness of the subject, and for 
want of that amusement” (1:7). The “want of order” in her writing pleads for 
its “conformity to the truth, according to the best information we could procure” 
(1: 151). So she can interrupt her letters with tame excuses, whenever she runs 
out of new ideas (“Our host kindly advertises me that the post is going out. 
You see I do not neglect to seize every opportunity of writing. Adieu,” 1: 158) 
and emphasize her independence, understating her constant interest in the 
fashionable “picturesque” of that which she calls “romantically beautiful” ( 2: 
293). Like all intelligent travelers of her time, she discusses her sources, asserts 
the acuteness of her own observations, and condemns the mistakes made by 
others: “I have no reason to think that Lalande ever saw this church, but rather 
that he took his account from Cochin” (1: 122n); “Cochin says [...], but he is 
mistaken” (1: 109n); “Keysler makes a great mistake” (I, 126n); etc. While she 
uses her husband as an observer (“M— had it from good authority,” 1: 139; 
“M— has learnt for me,” 1: 140; etc.) to add political insights and classical 
details to her text (1: 219-234), Miller’s own novelty is a thorough analysis of 
art masterpieces. Sensing, perhaps, the staleness of some of her observations, 
she lets slip, as a conclusion of “letter XXVI” this gloss: “This is the last church 
I shall mention, and I dare say you are not sorry for it” (1: 344). 

The authors’ implied claim to be eyewitnesses of a journey shows that truth 
in seventeenth-century travel writing was considered a sine gua non. 


Chateaubriand, Stendhal, and Flaubert: 
“Romancing” Travel Narrative 


Tout est vrai [...], mais tout y est commun; rien, ou presque rien ne valait 
la peine d’étre dit. (Stendhal, Mé/anges. II. Journalisme. Paris: Cercle du 
Bibliophile, 1972, XLVI, 67) 


Criticizing a fashionable Parisian novelist, Stendhal solved for us some of the 
problems of truthfulness we have debated. Art is not essentially tied to the 
truth; in fact truth can be boring and banal. In travel writing nothing is closer 
to the truth than a manual, yet nothing is farther removed from travel narrative 


30 LUIGI MONGA 


than the thorough account of all a serious traveler must see. On the other hand, 
a good writer should give himself free rein to talk about what travel manuals 
do not usually mention: himself, other people, feelings, a sensuous gourmandise 
of sights, noises, and colors: 


Je m’ouvrais tout entier aux impressions qui survenaient, je m’y excitais et 
je les savourais avec une sensualité gloutonne; je me plongeais dans mon 
imagination de toutes mes forces, je me faisais des images et des illusions 
et je prenais tout mon plaisir 4 m’y perdre et a m’y enfoncer plus avant. 
(Flaubert, Voyage aux Pyrénées et en Corse, 297) 


Flaubert dramatically identifies the subject/narrator and the object of its 
narrative. Typically, je et moi have become one, intimately related in a self- 
referential, narcissistic fashion focused on the individual’s intimate experience, 
savoring impressions, and drawing on them sensually. Michelet recognized 
after a long tour of Germany in 1842: “Combien j’ai voyagé en Jules Michelet, 
plus qu’en Allemagne,”*' and in the preface to his I#néraire de Paris a Jérusalem, 
Chateaubriand remarked that his ego was the center of his narrative (“je parle 
éternellement de moi,” 2:702). Yet, to underline his travel experience as a series 
of direct observations, Chateaubriand introduced his Voyage en Amérique with 
a cumbersome history of travel throughout the ages, identifying his momentous 
odyssey with the journeys of discovery of Hearne, Francklin, and Mackenzie, 
and portraying himself as one of those “hommes isolés, abandonnés 4 leurs 
propres forces et a leur propre génie” (1:664). 

The goal of the Romantic travel writer is basically the discovery of his own 
self as much as a quest for the outside world. In this realm of interior travel 
narrative, the critic should perhaps avoid looking for a strict verifiability of all 
the activities described and be content with the acceptance of mere plausibility. 
As for Chateaubriand, novelist, politician, adventurer, essayist, and the most 
conspicuous figure in French literature of the First Empire, his ample travel- 
related production only exemplifies the protean character of travel literature.” 
It shows also the difficulty in sorting and systematizing the mare magnum of 
human creativity in the area of hodoeporics. Chateaubriand traveled as an exile 
to Belgium and the Channel Islands, as a curious tourist to the wilderness of 
North America, as a diplomat to several posts in Europe, and finally to Italy, 


51. Journal, éd. Paul Viallaneix (Paris: Gallimard, 1959), 1, 457; see, below, M. Brix’s essay on 
this topic. 

52. A comparison between Chateaubriand’s Itinéraire de Paris a Jérusalem (11, 679-1214), re- 
written much later with a wealth of classical quotes and poetic insights, and the terse daily 
notes of the journal of Julien Potelin, his manservant on the same journey (“Voyage de Julien 
a Jérusalem,” 2, 1507-40), would show different narrative strategies and interests of two real 
travelers putting into writing a personal experience of the same journey. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 31 


Greece and the Near East, looking for “local color” to add true life to his 
historical novels. He wrote extensively about his journeys, publishing his 
material first as travel notes and letters, then as “fillers” for his novels and 
historical writings, catching the exotic ambiance of the wilderness of America, 
and the dawn of Christianity. Eventually he recycled the same material in essays 
of political and ethnological import,” and did not shy away from abundantly 
plundering other wniters, often re-editing and re-publishing his own texts when- 
ever he needed money. As a magnificent travel liar, he successfully managed 
to confuse his biographers and critics who attempted to map the details of his 
geographical movements and their chronology. And when Chateaubriand was 
caught red-handed by readers who criticized his fantastic portraits of the 
Mohawks (they were no “noble savages,” but a fearsome tribe) or his description 
of Florida (an area he never visited), he haughtily disdained to reply. Perhaps, 
as Sainte-Beuve suggested, the writer’s “inadvertences” should be forgiven as 
aspects of the abundant flow of the “sentiment de la nature américaine.”™* 

Chateaubriand’s grandiosely naive desire to cross the American territory, 
reach the West Coast, and walk all the way to the Arctic Sea in order to find 
the famous Northwest Passage is another attempt to portray himself in larger- 
than-life size as well as an impractical dream, expressed just as Lewis and Clark 
were preparing their grueling expedition. Although this is not the place to sort 
out the disarray of Chateaubriand’s mélange of genres and subgenres,® the 
mention of this problem should warn the reader of the difficulty of coming to 
a conclusive definition of hodoeporics as a genre in the traditional sense. That 
Chateaubriand’s writings were memorials supporting his shifting political 
allegiances further adds to the generic confusion. 

A few years after Chateaubriand, Henri Beyle, known in his réats de voyage 
as “M. de Stendhal” or “le comte de Stendhal,” mirrored a similar set of 
narrative problems. Like Chateaubriand, he used his notes de voyage abundantly 
in several successive publications. As itwas for Chateaubriand, the chronology 
of Stendhal’s numerous works is a spider web of self-referential notes and 


53. In his Voyage en Amérique, he unabashedly recycled passages he had used in some of his 
works. As for the Urtext of his notes, he sheepishly admits using them with great freedom: 
“Je laisse maintenant parler le manuscrit: je le donne tel quel je le trouve, tant6t sous la forme 
d’un réaf, tantot sous celle d’un journal, quelquefois en /effres ou en simples annotations” (11, 685). 


54. Chateaubriand et son groupe littéraire, 4° econ (2: 614). 


55. Maurice Regard, the editor of the Pléiade edition of Chateaubriand’s CEwores romanesques et 
voyages, acknowledged the difficulty in classifying the genre of some of Chateaubriand’s works: 
“Dans quel genre placer l’Itinéraire de Paris a Jérusalem, ot auteur se retrouve tout entier au 
naturel et presque intime?” (1: xiii). This problem of traditional scholarship still shows a 
fundamental indecision in finding a clear cut taxonomy for Chateaubriand’s Voyage en Amérique 
that appeared in print 36 years after its author’s actual journey. 


32 LUIGI MONGA 


copious rewritings of all sorts.°° Victor Del Litto’s analysis of Stendhal’s 
journaux de voyage underscored the fact that the French novelist “romanced” his 
journeys, transforming them into novels. In an effort to enhance his credibility 
and assemble a great number of true facts (“faits vrais,” 410) Stendhal even 
created his own interlocutors, for the most part aristocrats who were supposed 
to have traveled along with him,” volunteering their insights and witticism to 
add credibility and zest to the journal of a trip to Puglia and Calabria that 
Stendhal never took. 

In his essay on Travelers and Travel Liars: 1660-1800, Percy G. Adams 
attempted to sort out the confusion created by the travel texts written explicitly 
to deceive their readers, “forcing enlightened readers such as Swift, Walpole, 
and Dr. Johnson to be skeptical about all voyage literature” (237). As Lucian 
wrote, Iambulus, a creator of wild travel narratives and an honest liar, “invented 
a falsehood that is obvious to anyone, yet wrote a story that is not without 
interest for all that.” (Lucian, A Trve Story, 1, 3) 


Everyman’s Patagonia: 
“The Lucidity of Loneliness” in the Earth’s Farthermost Place 


Travel is at its best a solitary enterprise: to see, to examine, to assess, you 
have to be alone and unencumbered. [...] What is required is the lucidity 
of loneliness to capture that vision which, however banal, seems in my 
private mood to be special and worthy of interest (Theroux 168-169). 


In his Patagonian Express Paul Theroux defines travel as “a solitary mission of 
discovery in a remote place” (391). Patagonia, the farthermost place from the 
northern hemisphere, is for him a region of the spirit, the antithesis of a cozy 
Heimat.* During his career as a travel writer, Theroux embarked on numerous 
solitary journeys in various regions of the world, looking for a private space 
away from the crowd, searching fora “lucidity of loneliness” (169) that allowed 
him to crystallize his impressions. In this process he described the flaws of 
contemporary travel books as “fatal insufficiencies” of a hybrid potpourri of 


56. V. Del Litto’s annotations show Stendhal’s habit of recycling his journals in order to solve 
his financial problems by rewriting and republishing his notes. V. Del Litto adds that the 
notion of a traveling group in Stendhal’s journals implies almost a dramatic form, with direct 
and indirect dialogs in which the author appears as a leader (/e cicerone et /e porte-parole, XXII). 


57. And Chateaubriand inserted in his Ifnéraire a fictitious meeting with a fictitious Arsenios, 
Jerusalem’s “Armenian patriarch” (2: 1067-1068). 

58. “A fertile territory of fantasy” (Shakespeare 290) near the desolation of Antarctica, 
Patagonia represents what Naples and Vesuvius were for 16th- and 17th-century travelers, the 
“Ultima Meta” (John Raymond) and the “Non Ultra of my Travells” (John Evelyn). Beyond 
that there was only “plaine and prodigious barbarism” (John Evelyn, 163). 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 33 


geography and “potted history,” a “kind of lifeless boasting about how far the 
writer had gone and what he ate.””” So Theroux boarded a local train at 
Boston’s Wellington Circle Station, heading to the tip of South America via 
a series of odd connections through the entire length of the continent: “In this 
vagrant mood I boarded the first train [in Boston], the one people took to work. 
They got off; their train trip was already over. I stayed on; mine was just 
beginning.” (6) He knew neither what he was looking for nor what awaited 
him; he craved a little risk, danger, untoward events, a vivid discomfort, in a 
nutshell, “the romance of solitude” (169). His loneliness gave him time to 
ponder and take notes; his disappearance from family and friends was 
“elemental, but few come back silent” (3). The returning traveler, burning with 
a sacred flame to tell, would finally be able to utter all the words he had kept 
in his soul during his long journey. 

Many travel writers are happy to telescope their readers in the middle of 
things, beaching them in a bizarre place without having first guided them there.® 
For Theroux “the lower slope of Parnassus” (4), as he defines the act of moving 
through a geographic displacement, is a gradual withdrawing into an unknown 
environment, “the progress from the familiar to the slightly odd, to the rather 
strange, to the totally foreign, and finally to the outlandish. The journey, not 
the arrival, matters;*' the voyage, not the landing” (5). Theroux ends his book 
where other travel books usually begin. As tautological as this may sound, his 
travel narrative is just about ¢raveling, the displacement and the emotions it 
conveys, the surprise of places and people, and memories of previous readings. 
As soon as he reaches Patagonia, his book (and his journey) ends: “longae finis 
chartaeque viaeque.” The reader would never know what made this region 
so appealing to Theroux, who was only “interested in the going and the getting 
there” (383), the bittersweet daily struggle, logistic failures, and nostalgia.” 


59. My Secret History (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1989), 406. 


60. Theroux quotes, among travel book incipits, Moravia’s Which Tribe Do You Belong To? [A 
quale triba appartieni? Milano: Bompiani, 1972]: “From the balcony of my room I had a 
panoramic view over Accra, capital of Ghana” (3; the translation of Moravia’s quote is 
Theroux’s) 


61. This is also the title of the last volume of Leonard Woolf's autobiography, The Journey Not 
The Amval Matters (New York: Harcourt, Brace & World, 1969). Although Woolf implicitly 
attributes this quote to Montaigne, it is not found in the French philosopher’s works, although 
it is typical of Montaigne’s fondness of roaming the world (“J’entreprens seulement de me 
branler, pendant que le branle me plaist; et me proumene pour me proumener,” Essazs 3: 9; “il 
n’allait, quant a luy, en nul lieu que 1a ou il se trouvait,” Journal de voyage en Itale 1: 4). 


62. “The bus was uncomfortable, the road was bad, the food was awful, the weather was 
corrosive. But I had never been here before, which was justification enough” (The Pillars of 
Hercules. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1995, 395). 


34 LUIGI MONGA 


Like Theroux, Bruce Chatwin, who had traveled to far-away places, was 
drawn to Patagonia for its mystery and isolation, but also under the pretense 
of a quest for an elusive piece of mylodon skin. Unlike Theroux, Chatwin never 
mentioned how he went there. With great ease, offhandedly, he walked, hitched 
rides, and found shelter in that immense, bleak territory, 


spending nights in the grass, in caves, in peons’ huts, and sometimes between 
the linen sheets of an old-fashioned English estancia. On my back I carried 
a small leather rucksack containing a sleeping bag, a few clothes, [...] and half 
a bottle of vintage Krug to drink at the worst possible moment. (quoted in 
Shakespeare 294) 


His travelog, In Patagonia, an idiosyncratic patchwork of pilfered bits of 
local history and personal notes, offended some of his eyewitnesses, who 
complained that he had misrepresented much of what was said. That split of 
vintage champagne carried around in his rucksack was an improbable prop that 
distanced a colonialist outsider from the unpalatable presence of the locals. 
Unencumbered by companions, Chatwin was also free from annoying eyewit- 
nesses, reinventing his journey to create his own myth, and transforming himself 
into an unquestionable deus ex machina who moved around without the usual 
traumas that most travelers encounter: “I quit my job in the ‘art world’ and went 
back to dry places: alone, travelling light,” he wrote in The Songhnes (18). Theroux 
was among the first critics to question the ease of Chatwin’s manner of traveling 
(“How had he traveled from here to there? How had he met this or that person? 
Life was never so neat as Bruce made out,” quoted by Shakespeare 310). In 
fact, one of his fellow travelers said that “travelling with Bruce was like travelling 
with your 88-year-old maiden aunt. No piece of luggage was ever good enough. 
The weather was never right” (Shakespeare 152). Yet, Chatwin wrote that, albeit 
unannounced, he felt “welcome anywhere,” never lacking a room or a meal 
or a stimulating audience. In Shakespeare’s biography, however, some of the 
people who met Chatwin described him as “another bum in search of a bed” 
who “didn’t speak any Spanish and made no effort to be understood” (295-296). 
A charming conversationalist in English, Chatwin was a mute observer in 
Patagonia. We are left to wonder what really happened during his other trips 
and his conversations in exotic African and Asian dialects! 

Like his Romantic traveling confréres, Chatwin created a series of beautifully 
misleading tracks. But a question still haunts us: should fiction affect our 
definition of travel narrative? If plausibility is its fundamental element, we may 
consider the fictional details of Chatwin’s travelogs as poetic licences, far from 
Theroux’s realistic journals. Chatwin’s meditations on the human condition 
and his “jewelled prose of the upper-class English traveller” make his book 
on Patagonia “a more accomplished and decorative book that it is an interesting 
one” (Karl Miller quoted in Shakespeare 394-395). His travel narrative, lost 
in a farrago of genial intuitions and far-fetched ideas, particularly when he 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 35 


attempts to explain human restlessness in genetic terms, is highly entertaining. 
More duke than utile, perhaps, to keep Horace’s literary classification, but that 
is no reason to keep his works off the body of travel literature. 


* * KX kK * 


The Lure of Fiction 


La plupart des [livres de] voyages sont mal faits et pleins de 
mensonges (Richelet, Dictionnaire [1759], s.v. “Voyage’”’) 


The advancement of geographic knowledge, achieved by courageous explorers 
willing to risk their lives, was often dismissed by theoreticians who would not 
suffer mere practitioners to attack common beliefs. In the 4th century B.C. 
Pytheas of Massalia traveled north, reporting on Cornish tin mines and the amber 
trade, yet Strabo called him a liar because Pytheas’s report contradicted common 
beliefs. Ptolemy of Alexandria rejected Eratosthenes’s approximations of the 
Earth’s circumference and Aristarchus’s heliocentric theory of the solar system 
only because they differed with the opinion of Aristotle (Green 34), which reigned 
unchallenged for centuries. 

Francesco Vettori considered poetic license essential to entertainment,” 
for it avoided a monotonous list of daily activities: “in questi miei scritti non 
sia altro che giunsi, venni, arrivai, parti’, cavalcai, cenai, udi’, risposie simil cose 
le quali, replicate spesso, a il lettore danno fastidio” (Vettori 60). But the writer’s 
embellishments must be limited to minor accidents, as Francesco Belli pointed 
out: 


Io non niego pero che non sia lecito avantaggiare ed abbellire un tal poco 
le cose con qualche aiuto di concetti e dilicatezza di stile: non essendo cotali 
fregi piu alla fine che gli ornamenti nelle donne, che non le rendono piu belle 
in sostanza, ma piu aggradevoli in apparenza. Per altro, sendo stato il viaggio 
continovo o pochissime volte interrotto, non sara meraviglia che io tocchi 
appena gli oggetti e accenni gli avveniment.. [...] Tocchero adunque le cose 
vedute e udite: e se talora introdurro qualche cosa che paia diversa e lontana 


63. The Horatian dichotomy wti/e/ dulce, at the foundation of all literary writing, became 
curieux/ agréable in 17th-century French travel narrative (see, supra 25, in the introduction to 
Bertaud’s Journal) and leads to Locatelli’s Baroque narrative strategies of his Viaggio di Franca. 
In 18th-century Milan, Giuseppe Parini’s conclusion to his ode “La salubrita dell’aria” (1759), 
a straight quotation from Horace suggested the modern function of literature and fiction: “Va 
per negletta via / ognor l’util cercando / la calda fantasia / che sol felice é quando / l’utile unir 
puo al vanto / di lusinghievol canto” (127-132). 


36 LUIGI MONGA 


dalla materia, non sara che per fecondar la sterilita della stessa." 


Explorers have embellished their narrative even during the Enlightenment, 
when the general readership was willing to accept with gullible avidity lies 
travelers wrote about their far-away adventures. So writers kept emphasizing 
their honesty with preemptive strikes, as in the last chapter of Swift’s Gulliver's 
Travels: 


I could heartedly wish a law were enacted, that every traveller, before he were 
permitted to publish his voyages, should be obliged to make oath before the 
Lord High Chancellor, that all he intended to print was absolutely true to 
the best of his knowledge; for then the world would no longer be deceived 
as it usually is. (4: 12) 


But ensuring travelers’ credibility required more than just an oath in a 
courtroom. A century after Swift, Chateaubriand sanctimoniously defined the 
travel writer as an historian who related faithfully all he witnessed: “une espéce 
dhistorien [...]; son devoir est de raconter fidélement ce qu’il a vu ou ce qu'il 
a entendu dire; il ne doit rien inventer, mais aussi il ne doit rien omettre” (2: 
702). A disingenuous statement, indeed, as previously noted, for Chateaubriand 
managed with great adroitness to write about sites he had never seen. Marguerite 
de Navarre emphasized three centuries before that most writings done by “gens 
de lettres” tend to favor, unfortunately, “la beaulté de la rhethorique,” befuddling 
“Ja verité de l’histoire” (Heptaméron, Prologue). As soon as they grab a pen, 
authors begin a process of selection, organization, and rewriting, deciphering 
the world in a personal manner, and creating, as Réal Ouellet put it, their own 
“narration héroisante” (in Beugnot 219). Distrusting the realm of pure fiction 
as a despicable waste of energy,” Cervantes appointed a village priest to burn 
Don Quijote’s extensive library of chivalric works while he spun the tale of the 
adventures of his ingenioso hidalgo. 


Shades of Truth: Verifiability vs. Plausibility 


He has amused the reader with no romantic absurdity or incredible 
fictions; whatever he relates, whether true or not, is at least probabk, 


64. Francesco Belli, Osservazioni nel viaggio (Venice: Pinelli, 1632), 1-2. 


65. Claims of adhering to historical truth were commonplace in 18th-century England., as 
Defoe wrote in the preface to Robinson Crusoe. “the editor believes the thing to be a just history 
of fact; neither is there any appearance of fiction in it.” 


66. “Los historiadores que de mentiras se valen” -- he wrote -- habian de ser quemados, como 
los que hacen moneda falsa”; [...] “la historia es como cosa sagrada, porque ha de ser 
verdadera, y donde esta la verdad esta Dios” (Don Quijote, 11, XXV). 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 37 


and he who tells nothing exceeding the bounds of probabihty has 
a right to demand that they should believe him who cannot 
contradict him (Boswell, in Life of Dr. Johnson, describing a book 
of Jeronimo Lobo, S.J.,a Portuguese missionary, whose description 
Africa was translated by Samuel Johnson; A Voyage to Abyssinia. 
London: Bettersworth, 1735, 1: 86-89) 


That travel narrative needs to be based on a geographic travel is a tautological 
requirement. Voyages autour de ma chambre, sedentary journeys, utopian or 
metaphorical narratives pertain, by definition, to a different realm that is beyond 
its writer’s physical motion. A journey implies getting out of one’s limited home- 
based perspective and changing one’s ce/um (“coelum non animum muto dum 
trans mare curro,” Horace, Saz. 1.1.30). 

Reliability in travel narrative takes numerous forms through the ages and 
styles, as the main connection between ac/a, the activities performed in real life 
by the writer, and dicta (or scripia), the writer’s own reflection. At the outset, 
we dismissed epic poems from the canon of hodoeporics for the spotty 
chronology of their unverifiable journeys (supra 9), but other fictional genres 
hold a special place in our assessment of travel narrative for under the cloak 
of fiction they may contain details of the landscape that hide real journeys 
probably taken by the novelist himself. One could make the case, among others, 
for the picaresque novel. And travel narrative, always an elusive goal, becomes 
a meta-literature that kept slipping through artificial boundaries even before 
postmodernism injected an agonizing sense of subjective indetermination into 
the critical process of genre analysis. 

Despite our confidence in today’s availability of knowledge, even the best 
tools at our disposal are insufficient to verify the truthfulness of ancient travel 
narratives. For example, only in the last decade archaeologists have been able 
to ascertain Herodotus’s truthfulness when he stated that the Scythians buried 
their dead ones in the high mountains of the Altai region. A team of Russian 
scientists in the 1990s found mummified corpses wearing Scythian clothes and 
jewelry in burial mounds of the Pazyryk tribe, proving that Herodotus had sought 
reliable informers. Are we then to renounce our quest for real travel narrative, 
if the narrative of the geographical displacement was written so long ago that 
there is little chance of objective verification (Marco Polo)? or when only a partial 
verification can be made (as in Chateaubriand’s journey through Louisiana or 
Florida or Stendhal’s visit to Sicily)? Should we suspend our judgement and 
patiently wait for indisputable proof when our travel writer, like Chatwin, carefully 
hides his tracks? 

Petrarch’s identification of traveling and writing shows a deep ambivalence 
about two apparently disparate activities: 


Sed satis itum, satis est scriptum. Hactenus tu remis ac pedibus maria et terras, 
ego hanc papirum calamo properante sulcaverim, et an adhucc tu fessus sis 


38 LUIGI MONGA 


eundo, certe ego iam scribendo fatigatus sum eoque magis quam celenius 
incessi; quod enim tu forte tribus mensibus, hoc ego triduo consumavi 
(Petrarch, [tinerarium, XVIII, 1-2) 


The blurred frontiers between traveling and writing, an interesting exercise, show 
that there are “fluid boundaries both within and among genres” (Ron Gottesman 
quoted in Blanton viii). A genre with “a thousand forms and faces” (Adams 
281), hodoeporics has undergone a complex evolution, as we have shown, and 
taken a broad variety of generic shapes. It is a system that accepts all sorts of 
suggestions and appropriates styles, forms, and allusions. Readers cannot easily 
determine where a text is a fictional narrative or a personal account of a journey 
really undertaken, for texts do not always fit into tidy categories. Their vast 
congeries contain numerous odd mixtures of fiction and realism; and one could 
never exclude the interference of personal journeys into fictional narrative. 
Cervantes has inserted in his fictional Don Ouzote a number of details that 
reveal his personal background. The reader could follow the hero’s peregrinations 
through realistic geographic allusions. Recent scholarship has even argued that 
the landscape of Cervantes’s novel is not that of Don Quijote’s La Mancha, 
as has been traditionally believed, but in fact it portrays the expanse of Sanabria, 
a primitive region in northwestern Spain where Cervantes may have lived.” 
And I have postulated that some of Cervantes’s Novelas eemplares do contain 
realistic details of their author’s journey to Italy.” Indeed, boundaries between 
fiction and travel narrative tend to be blurry. The basic cycle of travel narrative 
(departure, adventure, return, reflection: Monga “Cycles” 2000) takes many shapes 
and develops in many directions,” mixing freely fiction and truth, objective 
facts and subjective perceptions. The success of some of Jules Verne’s novels 
was based on his ability to write Vingt mille heues sous les mers (1869) and Voyage 
autour du monde en quatre-vingts jours (1872) a few decades before submarines and 
transcontinental flight were developed: “delightfully extravagant voyages, [...] 
to which cleverly prepared scientific and geographical details lent an air of 
verisimilitude.””” And today, after the Apollo lunar expeditions, the world of 


67. Leandro Rodriguez. Cervantes en Sanabria: Ruta de Don Quijote de la Mancha. Zamora: 
Diputacion Provincial, 1999. 


68. See my essay “El viaje a Italia en las obras de Cervantes: ;Ficcion 0 autobiografia?” in Adas 
del I? Congreso Internacional de Hispanistas: Melilla 26-30 junio de 1995 (Malaga: Alcazara, 1996), 
499-509. 


69. Vettori’s Viaggio in Alamagna and Nerval’s Voyage en Orient mix realistic travel narrative with 
fictional stories. But even guidebook, arguably the most objective travel narratives, contain 
subjective elements: consider the number of stars that in the Guide Michelin indicate how 
worthy a site is or the indication to consider whether a city is worth a trip or just a défour. 


70. Encyclopaedia Britannica (1911), 27:1030. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 39 


science fiction has pushed the envelop, replacing technological surprise with 
psychological inquiry. Since lies and illusions are enmeshed with travel narrative,”! 
a definitive identification of travel narrative continues to elude us, for the closer 
we seem to get to a conclusion the farther the territory expands, accepting more 
conflicting categories. 


The Challenges of a Taxonomy 


Admitting a modicum of tautology, we may assume that the minimum common 
denominator of hodoeporics is the narrative of a plausible displacement away 
from the writer’s own milieu,” referential as to its geography and history (spatial 
and chronological displacement, toponyms, events, and people). This definition 
illuminates the dichotomy of “real” versus metaphorical, utopian, science-fictional 
displacements. It implies a subtext related to a physical and chronological motion 
away from home and a reflection on the activity of traveling. It is obvious that 
such a text may share many characteristics with autobiographical writing, since 
the narrator often is the same person as the traveler whose adventure begins 
not with birth but with departure (Roudaut 59). The time-lapse between the 
journey and its account suggests a personal reflection, as Flaubert stated in the 
prelude to his Voyage en Onent (“Entre le moi de ce soir et le moi de ce soir-la 
il y a la difference du cadavre au chirurgien qui l’autopsie”). 

As today’s mass tourism has created a global compulsion to reach far-away 
sites, there remain very few, if any, new places to discover. The geographical 
displacement we call tourism is thus performed in order to verify what other 
travelers have written about the world (“vérifier un texte antérieur sur le 
monde,” Pasquali 85). Witness the popularity of guidebooks. The desire to 
confront a personal experience with other voices and the urge to find new ways 
to express that experience create a medley of narrative strategies. We have seen 
them in our survey, shifting between telling a real story and creating a mar- 
velous tale. So many internal ambiguities prevent critics from establishing solid 
parameters of hodoeporics (Le Huenen 14) and all attempts to crystallize this 
kind of narrative into a single genre are doomed to fail, for its forms and 
contents are too varied and, often, contradictory. Today’s criticism, with its 
lack of “firm boundaries between different kinds of literature” (Hernadi 8) and 


71. The term é/usion is etymologically connected with playing; /adere and in-ludere mix 
unwavering lies with a playful recollection of real events. 


72. A vague notion of distance is implied in many definitions of travel: “transport qu’on fait 
de sa personne en des lieux esloignez” (Furetiére, 1690); “déplacement d’une personne qui se 
rend en un lieu assez éloigné” (Robert, 1972); “a journey by which one goes from one place 
to another (especially at considerable distance)” (OED); “il recarsi da una localita all’altra, 
quando cio richieda diverso tempo” (Palazzi-Folena, 1992). 


40 LUIGI MONGA 


tendency to be less dogmatic than in the past, leaves us with a tentative 
approach to describe literary phenomena. One could apply to our field what 
Hayden White wrote about the historiographic discourse: “Viewed simply as 
verbal artifacts, histories and novels are indistinguishable from each other” (21- 
44). The fallacy of prescriptive definitions would suggest a need to adopt 
several systems of coordinates (Hernadi 153). First of all there is an unavoid- 
able relationship between the text and the journey, but deciphering the 
unknown is never an easy task, for analogies show inevitable approximations. 

The Horatian syntagm péasant-and-usefulis fundamental to narrative. The 
blurred relationship between fiction and reality is at the core of the problem. 
Aristotle’s distinction between poets and historians comes back to haunt us, 
caught between what happened and what could have happened (Poetics V1 51b4- 
51b7). On one hand, we witness Orazio Busino riding on a boat down the Rhine 
“con la penna in mano” (Contarini), noting conscientiously the toponyms of 
the villages he observes on the river banks. On the other, we meet Heinrich 
Heine, feasting in the cozy atmosphere of a /abie d’hote in Brescia, forsaking a 
guided tour to listen to a waiter’s humorous description of his town.” Heine 
freely admits that his narrative of Brescia is based on hearsay, but his Rezsebi/de 
remains a travel narrative. Heine’s honest casualness underscores the ambiguity 
and inconsistency of this genre at the very moment Chateaubriand takes pain 
to portray his apocryphal travel narrative as the work of an historian. 


“Quid est veritas?” (John 28:18): The Unavoidable Snare of Narrative 


After this journey through a selection of the world’s hodoeporics, it appears 
that perfectly truthful travel narratives are difficult to find. Truthfulness and 
creativity have constantly clashed since the time when the Greeks chose Hermes, 
god of liars, as the patron of travelers. We have seen that frequently, as travelers 
began to write, the accounts of their personal experience were shaped by their 
literary agenda. Thus travel writing became an enterprise virtually indistinguish- 
able from novel or poetry (M.-C. Gomez-Géraud in Antotne-Gomez-Géraud 
249), a text fraught with travelers’ lies. 

In the postmodern discourse about genres, any attempt to make an apodictic 
statement in the field of literary criticism is doomed. We are left to extrapolate 
from examples such as Francesco Vetton’s clear program for the narrative of 
his journey through Germany: 


73. “I cannot say much about Brescia, for I took advantage of my time to have a decent meal. 
[...] But, before I got back to the coach, I was conscientious enough to ask my waiter for 
information about the city; so I found out, among other things, that Brescia has forty thousand 
people, a city hall, twenty-one coffee houses, twenty Catholic churches, an insane asylum, a 
synagogue, a zoo, a jail, a hospital and a theater equally good, and gallows for thieves who steal 
less than one hundred thousand tallers” (my translation; see Monga, “Travel” 54). 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 41 


Scrivero adunque, tutti e’ luoghi dove sono stato, e non solo le citta e castelli, 
ma li borghi e le minime ville, e quello che mi sia accaduto e con chi abbi 
parlato e di che. (Vsaggio in Alamagna [1507], 13) 


Vettori’s aim touched on the common denominator of most travel narratives. 
Describing the sites he saw, the people he met, and the words they exchanged 
is all he had to do to be a faithful reporter. Yet, after setting these realistic 
parameters, Vettori’s travel narrative was just a “frame” fora series of fictional 
novelle, a blatant intrusion of fiction into his writing. Under the “piacevoli no- 
velle” that make up the report of Vettori’s journey to Germany, his hodoeporic 
activities (“e’ luoghi dove sono stato” and “quello che mi sia accaduto”’) suddenly 
disappear. 

Writing about one’s experience is never as simple a process as that described, 
tongue-in-cheek, by Sterne’s muleteer , “driving his mule all the way from Rome 
to Loretto, without ever once turning his head aside either to the right hand 
or to the left”: 


A man of the least spirit will have fifty deviations from a straight line to make 
with this or that party as he goes along, which he can no ways avoid. He will 
have views and prospects to himself perpetually soliciting his eye, which he 
can no more help standing still to look at than he can fly; he will moreover 
have various 

Accounts to reconcile: 

Anecdotes to pick up: 

Inscriptions to make out: 

Stories to weave in: 

Traditions to sift: 

Personages to call upon: 

Panygericks to paste up at this door: 

Pasquinades at that: 
— All which both the man and his mule are quite exempt from. To sum 
up all; there are archives at every stage to be look'd into, and rolls, records, 
documents, and endless genealogies, which justice ever and anon calls him 
back to stay the reading of: — In short, there is no end of it. (Laurence 
Sterne. The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Esq., 1, X1V) 


Sterne’s muleteer is a satirical metaphor for the rare travelers totally uncon- 
cerned with their literary reputation, travelers who engage in the perfectly honest 
effort to abstain from reshaping a journey in order to please their public. In 
fact, Stern seems to imply that such travelers are semi-literate and therefore, 
like their mules, rather oblivious to literary temptations. As Marguerite de 
Navarre intimated, writers (and, naturally, travel writers), as “gens de lettres,” 
are so eager to pursue fame that they succumb to the insidious lure of literary 
creativity, entangling forever narrative and fiction, reality and imagination. 


42 LUIGI MONGA 


A debate on the truthfulness of travel narrative (or any narrative, for that 
matter) probably will lead us nowhere, for the subjectivity of the poetic process 
is inevitable. This operation involves most human activities (not just literature 
and the visual arts) for the intervention of writers and artists alike involves 
cropping, enhancing shadows and colors, deciding on specific angle of vision, 
focusing on a distinctive expression or selecting peculiar details, and makes 
objectivity virtually unreachable, even in most “realistic” fields. Witness Georgia 
O’Keeffe who, as a young painter, lucidly defined her artistic goal, stressing 
that “[nJothing is less real than realism. [...] Details are confusing. It is only 
by selection, by elimination, by emphasis, that we get at the real meaning of 
things.” 

The “real meaning of things,” the poetry of interpreting reality, as an 
essentially subjective vision, accounts for “the snare of narrative” that pervades 
the selection of the texts we have examined in this survey. 

Let us then enjoy the Horatian sweetness of literature as the implied goal 
of travel narrative, leaving guidebooks to be, perhaps, the most impassive form 
of travel information. And, since we live in an imperfect world, we must accept, 
with Sterne, the inevitable (but how enjoyable!) companionship of travel liars 
and creative travel writers like Lucian of Samosata, who acknowledged at the 
outset of his Trve Story: “not having had any adventure of significance, I took 


to lying” (1, 4). 


Vanderbilt University 


74. From an often repeated 1922-Georgia O’Keeffe’s quotation exhibited at the Permanent 
Collection of her paintings at the Georgia O’Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe, New Mexico (May 
2, 2003 — January 25, 2004). The snare of realism, the challenge to define it, and the inherent 
theoretical contradiction of this terminology, are discernible in an Alfred Stieglitz’s quotation 
in the same exhibit: “[In photography] there is reality—so subtle that it becomes more real that 
reality.” 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 43 


WORKS CITED 
Primary Sources: 


Anon. Discours viatiques de Paris a Rome et de Rome a Napkes et Sick [1588-1589], ed. L. 
Monga. Geneva: Slatkine, 1983. 

Alberti, Leandro. Descrittione di tutta Italia. Bologna: Giaccarelli, 1550. 

Barbaro, Josafa. I/ viaggio della Tana e nella Persia [1487] in G. B. Ramusio, Navigaztoni 
e viaggt, ed. M. Milanesi. Turin: Einaudi, 1980, III. 

Brosses, Charles de. Lettres dTtake, ed. F. d’Agay. Paris: Mercure de France, 1986, 2 vol. 

Carletti, Francesco. Ragionamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo, ed. G. Silvestro. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1958. 

Chateaubriand, Francois-René de. CEuvres romanesques et voyages, ed. M. Regard. Panis: 
Gallimard, 1969, 2 vol. 

Chatwin, Bruce. In Patagonia]. New York: Summit Books, 1977. 

Col6n, Crist6bal [Christopher Columbus]. Diario de a bordo, ed. Luis Arranz. Madrid: 
Historia 16, 1985. 

Contarini, Pietro. Diari di viaggio (1606-1623), forthcoming in 2004-2005. 

Dupaty, Charles-Marguerite. Leftres sur ['Ttahte en 1785. Rome (Paris): s.n., 1792. 

Erasmus, Desiderius. Opera Omnia. Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1969- , several vols. 

Evelyn, John. Kakndarium [1620-1649] in The Diary of John Evelyn, ed. E. S. De Beeer. 
Oxford: The Clarendon Press, 1955. 

Flaubert, Gustave. Voyage aux Pyrénées et en Corse in CEuvres completes. Paris: Club de 
?Honnéte Homme, 1973, 10: 282-349. 

Hoby, Sir Thomas. “The Travels and Life of Sir T. H., Knight, ed. E. Powell in The 
Camden Miscellany, X (London: The Royal Historical Society, 1902). 

Lassels, Richard. The Voyage of Italy. Paris, 1670; to be sold in London by J. Starkey]. 


Lucilius, Gaius. Satires, ed. Fr. Charpin. Paris: Les Belles Lettres, 1978. 

Locatelli, Sebastiano. Viaggio di Francia: Costumi e qualita di quei paesi (1664-1665), ed. 
L. Monga. Moncalier: C.I.R.V.1., 1990. 

Miller, Anna Riggs (Lady), Letters from Italy, Describing the Manners, Customs, Antiquities, 
paintings, etc. of That Country in the Years 1770 and 1771 to a Friend Residing in France. 
London: E. and Ch. Dilly, 1777, 2 vol. 

Nerval, Gérard de. Voyage en Orient in CE uvres completes, ed. J. Guillaume and Cl. Pichois. 
Paris: Gallimard, 1984, 2: 171-881. 

Petrarca, Francesco. Itinerarium breve de Ianua usque ad Ierusalem et Terram Sanctam, ed. 
A. Paolella. Bologna: Commissione per i testi di lingua, 1993. 

. Petrarch’s Guide to the Holy Land: Itinerary to the Sepulcher of Our Lord Jesus 
Christ, ed. and trans. by Th. J. Cachey, Jr. Notre Dame: Note Dame UP, 2002. 

Ramusio, Giovanni Battista. Navigazioni e viaggi, ed. M. Milanesi. Torino: Einaudi, 1978- 
1983, 6 vol. 

Sassetti, Filippo. Lettere da vari paesi [1578-1588], ed. V. Bramanti. Milano: Longanes1, 
1970. 


44 LUIGI MONGA 


Stendhal [Henri Beyle]. Rome, Naples et Florence en 1817; L’'Itahe en 1818; Rome, Naples 
et Florence [1826]; Promenades dans Rome in V oyages en Itake, ed. V. Del Litto. Paris: 
Gallimard, 1973. 

Theroux, Paul. The Old Patagonian Express: By Train through the Americas. Boston: 
Houghton Mifflin, 1979. 

Vettori, Francesco. Viaggio in Alamagna [1507] in Sonitti storia e poltia, ed. E Niccolini 
Bari: Laterza, 1972. 


Secondary Sources: 


Adams, Percy G. Travel Literature and the Evolution of the Novel. Lexington: The University 
Press of Kentucky, 1983. 

. Travelers and Travel Liars: 1660-1800. Berkeley: University of California 
Press, 1962; reprint: New York: Dover, 1980. 

Antoine, Philippe and Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud, eds. Roman et récit de voyage. Paris: 
Presses de l'Université de Paris-Sorbonne, 2001. (Antoine-Gomez-Géraud) 

Bertrand, Gilles. Bébhographie des études sur le voyage en Itake: V oyage en Itake, voyage en Europe: 
XVI-XX siécl. Grenoble: Centre de Recherche d’Histoire de l’Italie et des Pays 
Alpins, 2000. 

Beugnot, Bernard, ed. Voyages. Récits et imaginaire. Paris-Tubingen-Seattle: Papers on 
French 17th-Century Literature, 1984. 

Blanton, Casey. Travel Writing: The Self and the World. New York: Twayne, 1997. 

Broc, Numa. La Géographie de la Renaissance. Paris: CTHS, 1986. 

Camassa, Giorgio and Silvana Fasce, eds. Idea e realta del viaggio: tf viaggio nel mondo antico. 
Genova: E.C.I.G., 1991 (abbreviated as Camassa-Fasce). 

Capucci, Martino. “La prosa narrativa, memorialistica e di viaggio. Avventurieri e 
poligrafi. Letterati, critici, polemisti,” in Enrico Malato, ed., Storia della letteratura 
italiana. I/ Settecento. Roma: Salerno, 1998, 6: 705-755. 

Cardona, Giorgio Raimondo. “I viaggi e le scoperte” in Alberto Asor Rosa (ed.), 
Letteratura italiana: Le questioni. Torino: Einaudi, 1986, 5: 687-716. 

Casson, Lionel. Travel in the Anaent World. London: Allen & Unwin, 1974. 

Clerici, Luca. I/ viaggiatore meravighato. Milano: I) Saggiatore, 1999. 

De Capnio, Vincenzo. Un genere letterario instabile: Sulla relaxione di viaggio al Capo Nord 
(1799) di Giuseppe Acerbi. Roma: Archivio Guido Izzi, 1996. 

Green, Peter. “What Columbus Didn’t Know,” London Review of Books (21 February 
2002): 34-35. 

Gannier, Odile. La Littérature de voyage. Paris: Ellipses, 2001. 

Harder, Hermann. Le Président De Brosses et le voyage en Italie au XVIII siécl. Geneve: 
Slatkine, 1981. 

Hernadi, Paul. Beyond Genre. New Directions in Literary Classifications. Ithaca, Cornell UP, 
1972. 

Klein, Bernhard. Maps and the Writing of Space in Early Modern England and Ireland. New 
York: Palgrave, 2001. 


THE UNAVOIDABLE “SNARE OF NARRATIVE” 45 


Korte, Barbara. Enghsh Travel Writing from Pilgrimage to Postcolonial Explorations. New Y ork: 
St. Martin’s Press, 2000. 
Lestringant, Frank. L Atelier du cosmographe, ou l'image du monde a la Renaissance. Paris: Albin 
Michel, 1991. 
. Ecrire le monde a la Renaissance: quinze études sur Rabelais, Postel, Bodin et la 
Littérature géographique. Caen: Paradigme, 1993. 
. Le Livre des iles. Atlas et récits insulaires de la Genése a Jules Verne. Geneve: 
Droz, 2002. 
Le Huenen, Roland. “Qu’est-ce qu’un récit de voyage?,” Littérales no. 7 (1990): 11-27. 
Mancini, Albert N. “L’odeporica adattata al capitolo: testi di viaggio di Francesco 
Bolognetti” in L Ttaka nella lingua e nel pensiero,ed. A. Mollica and R. Campa (Roma: 
Istituto Poligrafico e Zecca dello Stato, 2002), 1: 107-120. 
Mondada, Lorenza. Verbaksation de espace et fabrication du savoir: Approche Anguistique de 
la construction des objets de discours.. Lausanne: Université de Lausanne, 1994. 
Monga, Luigi. “Travel and Travel Writing: An Historical Overview of Hodoe- 


porics,” L ‘odeporica / Hodoeporics: On Travel Literature, AdI 14 (1996): 6-54. 
. “Cycles of Early Modern Hodoeporics,” Ad! 18 (2000): 199-238. 


Nelson, William. Fact or Fiction: The Dilemma of the Renaissance Storyteller. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1973. 

Nucera, Domenico. “T viaggi e la letteratura” in A. Gnisci, et a, eds., Introduzione alla 
letteratura comparata (Milano: Bruno Mondadori, 1999): 115-159. 

Ouellet, Réal. “Qu’est-ce qu’une relation de voyage?” in Cl. Duchet et S. Vachon (eds.), 
La Recherche ittéraire: objets et méthodes (Montréal: XYZ, 1993): 235-246. 

Pasquali, Adrien. Le Tour des horizons: critique et récits de voyages. Paris: Klincksieck, 1994. 

Placanica, A. “La capitale, il passato, il paesaggio: i viaggiatori come fonte della storia 
meridionale,” Meridiana 1 (1987): 165-179. 

Polezzi, Loredana. Translating Travel: Contemporary Italian Travel Writing in Enghsh 
Translation. Aldershot, UK: Ashgate, 2001. 

Requemora, Sylvie. “Un seul genre de “Voyage en France’? Entre modele et réécriture 
fictionnelle, espace du voyage,” Bibio 17: Autour de Mme de Sévigné, Deux colloques 
pour un tricentenaire, ed. R. Duchesne and P. Ronzeaud, (1997): 113-134. 

. “Du roman au récit, du récit au roman: le voyage comme genre ‘métoyen’ 

au XVII‘ siécle, de Du Périer 4 Regnard” in Roman et récat de voyage (Paris: Presses 
de l'Université de Paris-Sorbonne/Imago mundi, 2001): 25-36. 

Roudaut, Jean. “Quelques variables du récit de voyage,” Nouvelle Revue Frangaise, no. 
377 (1 June 1984): 58-70. 

Schaeffer, Jean-Marie. Ou’est-ce qu'un genre httéraire? Paris: Seuil, 1989. 

Shakespeare, Nicholas. Brace Chatwin. London: Harvill/Jonathan Cape, 1999. 

White, Hayden. “Fictions of Factual Representations,” in Angus Fletcher (ed.), The 
Literature of Fact (New York: Columbia UP, 1976): 21-44. 

Wolfzettel, Friedrich. Le Discours du voyageur: le récit de voyage du Moyen Age au XVIIF siécle. 
Paris: PUF, 1996. 

Wood, Denis. The Power of Maps. New York: Guilford Press, 1992. 





EMANUELE KANCEFF 





Odeporica e letteratura: contro la dislessia 


ncora vent’anni fa, al “documento di viaggio” non si attribuiva nes- 

sun valore poetico. Una tradizione consolidata, dalla quale non stia- 

mo ancora usciti, concepiva questi scritti come relazioni infor- 
mative, estranee al campo dell’estetica, utilissime a numerosi scopi — primo 
fra tutti ’apprendimento della geografia, come era stato per secoli! — at- 
torno alle quali era inutile che i letterati e 1 critict si cimentassero. Era pur 
vero che alcune eccezioni alla regola ponevano qualche fastidioso problema. 
C’era pure stato un grandissimo scrittore del Cinquecento che aveva avuto 
idea di scrivere un diario di viaggio, cui non si poteva negare diritto di cit- 
tadinanza;? ma, in fin dei conti, non l’aveva neanche pubblicato — ci sara pur 
stato un motivo — e questo diario — ma era poi veramente un diario? — ci 
era giunto solo in una dubbia edizione settecentesca,> senza che il mano- 
scritto potesse essere ritrovato [...] tutti elementi che ne facevano una tra- 
scurabile eccezione. L’idea originaria non poteva dunque essere che la se- 


1. E. significativo che un grande erudito del Settecento, l’abate Lenglet Du Fresnoy (1674- 
1755), autore di decine di opere di erudizione storico-bibhiografica, tra cui un importante 
saggio-bibliografia sui romanzi (De /"usage des romans, on l'on fait voir leur utilité et leurs differents 
caractéres, Amsterdam, de Poilras, 1734, 2 vol.) e una monumentale Méthode pour étudier l'histoire, 
pubblicata a Parigi nel 1713 rispettivamente da J. Musier e da A.-U. Coustelier e nipubblicata 
lungo tutto il secolo, abbia avuto l’idea di scrivere anche una Méthode pour étudier la géographie 
(Paris, Hochereau, 1716, 4 vol.), anch’essa piu volte ripubblicata nel Settecento, che é 
sostanzialmente una delle prime bibliografie di testi di viaggio. Essa rappresenta dunque uno 
dei primi documenti di questa concezione del testo di viaggio come strumento di descrizione 
geografica e di esplorazione e come fonte privilegiata se non unica per tale tipo di studi. Da 
tale concezione deriva la collocazione che i testi di viaggio hanno avuto e continuano ad 
avere nelle biblioteche del mondo, tanto che la Classificazione Decimale Dewey li ascrive alla 
classe 900 (Storia e Geografia), e pil precisamente alle varianti del 910 (Viaggi). Siamo 
dunque oggi nella stessa situazione di tre secoli fa. 


2. E noto che Michel de Montagne scrisse e in parte dettd o fece scrivere dal segretario (in 
modo pit o meno indipendente? Cfr. Pintroduzione all’edizione del Journa/ curata da Fausta 
Garavini (Paris, Gallimard, 1983) il diario del suo viaggio in Europa (ma sostanzialmente in 
Italia) tra i1 1580 e il 1581. 

3. Scoperto casualmente dall’abate Prunis, nel castello di Montagne, nel 1770, il manoscritto 
fu pubblicato per la prima volta da Meunier de Querlon nel 1774 e poi scomparve. Sulle 
edizioni del Journal cfr. Yaccurato lavoro di Isida Cremona Bernardinis, “Bibliographie du 


Journal de voyage de Michel de Montagne en 1580 et 1581”, Bollettino del C.ILR.V.I., no. 5 (1982): 
179 e segg. 


Annali d’ Itakanistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’ odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


48 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


guente: “Esistono 1 testi di viaggio, sono quelli in cui viene descritto un 
viaggio;+ questa descrizione avviene per motivi molteplici, conservare il ri- 
cordo dell’avventura corsa, fare opera utile per coloro che viaggeranno do- 
po, fissare sulla carta immagine di realta che vengono recepite come stra- 
ordinarie o strane o semplicemente diverse dal viaggiatore; nei casi migliori 
fare opera documentaria, geografica, storiografica. Per tutti questi sottocasi 
della scrittura di viaggio esistono esempi molteplici, che non val la pena di 
andare a cercare e mettere in lista:> sottoprodotti della saggistica, taccuini 
privati, congerie di carte consunte dalle leghe percorse, fasci di lettere in- 
giallite e difficilmente decifrabili [...] quante carte di questo genere riempio- 
no i nostri archivi, e quanti libri ne hanno ricavato peregrini editori del pas- 
sato, che ora giacciono in mucchi nelle biblioteche o sui banchetti degli an- 
tiquari!” 

Ricordo molto bene e con un po’ di nostalgia i tempi in cui era faci- 
lissimo procurarsi l’edizione, magari rara, di un vecchio testo di viaggio. 
Nella mia qualita di ricercatore in letteratura francese trascorrevo ogni anno 
lunghi periodi a Parigi e non mancavo mai di visitare 1 bouquinistes lungo le 
rive della Senna. Non era raro che m’imbattessi — nel corso di quei meti- 
colosi controlli delle montagne di vecchi libri esposte al pubblico — in qual- 
che testo di viaggio che non conoscevo ancora, che non possedevo e che 
avrei desiderato aggiungere alla mia collezione. Le trattative d’acquisto era- 
no in genere brevi e, per me, foriere di viva soddisfazione: senza essere do- 
tato di particolari abilita commerciali, spuntavo prezzi incredibilmente in- 
consistenti per vecchi libri che, al loro solo aspetto esteriore, dovevano va- 
lere molto di pit di quanto mi veniva richiesto, pur considerando la sola ri- 
legatura. Questo era il sintomo molto chiaro che si leggeva i in quel tempo: la 
“letteratura di viaggio” non interessava a nessuno e i commercianti che 
trovavano questi antichi racconti nei fondi acquistati in blocco non vede- 
vano l’ora di disfarsene affibiandoli a qualche ingenuo visitatore ignaro dei 
prezzi del mercato antiquario. 

Poi ci fu, quasi improvvisamente, un mutamento di rotta. Fu quando, 
negli anni Ottanta, cambid anche l’atteggiamento, prima molto liberale, di 


4. Idea nefasta che ha grandemente impedito lo sviluppo degli studi, questa identificazione 
della scrittura di viaggio con i testi “che raccontano un viaggio” é€ ancora oggi l’ostacolo 
contro cui inciampano anche le pit moderne bibliografie. Sul?’importanza di definire corret- 
tamente il campo d’indagine si puo vedere, tra l’altro, Angiolo Tursi, “Di una bibliografia dei 
viaggiatori stranieri in Italia,” Nwova rivista storica 40 (1956): 1-33. 

5. Non é un caso se la bibliografia del viaggio (penso particolarmente a quella sul viaggio in 
Italia) é stata sempre poco coltivata e ha finito per dare frutti molto limitati e tardivi. Si puo 
vedere a tal proposito il mio articolo “Leggere il viaggio in Italia: un metodo di 


classificazione”, in AA.VV., Lo sguardo che viene di lontano: Valterita e le sue letture, Moncalient, 
C.L.R.V.1., 2001), 1: 3-12. 


ODEPORICA E LETTERATURA: CONTRO LA DISLESSIA 49 


grandi e storiche biblioteche che qui non voglio nominare: non fu pit con- 
sentito, da allora, riprodurre, persino microfilmare, manoscritti e libri di 
. viaggio, se non in modo parziale e molto limitato. Che questo fosse il segno 
di una presa di coscienza del “possibile” valore di tali documenti non c’era 
dubbio, e ho sempre immodestamente sospettato che il ruolo che il C.I.R.- 
V.I., nato nel 1978, cominciava ad esercitare nel mondo degli studi non fos- 
se estraneo a quei mutamenti. Ma questa é un’altra storia che, semmai, an- 
dra scritta a parte. Cid che qui conta é cercare di definire, anche nelle sue 
radici storiche, un problema che rimane in attesa di soluziont: il valore, ap- 
punto, di tali document. Documenti occasionali, si dira; documenti senza 
alcuna ambizione letteraria, aggiungeranno altri con convinzione: vediamo 
fino a che punto cid é sostenubile. 

La scrittura é una funzione dell’esistenza, che l’'uomo ha cominciato ad 
esercitare, secondo le ultime scoperte, da almeno ottomila anni. Si scrive co- 
me si mangia, come si beve, come si dorme. Si scrive l’intitolazione di una 
via all’angolo di una casa, il limite di una proprieta al termine del prato, un 
avvertimento, un’ammonizione, una sfida. [...] Si scrive un nome sul muro, 
la formula di un prodotto, Porario di un treno, un cartello stradale [...] Ma la 
scrittura non é solo una funzione dell’esistenza, poiché accade che essa sia 
la fotografia dell’esistere, una formula in cui, con un salto di qualita, l’e- 
sistente rimane intrappolato per sempre, in forma inutile al movimento co- 
smico ma indistruttibile. Altro é scrivere un cartello stradale, altro é com- 
pilare una guida, che é la forma piu neutra e utilitaristica della scrittura di 
viaggio: le guide sono forse degli insiemi di cartelli stradalir 

Scrivere é fatica, come ogni altra azione umana. E come ogni fatica, é 
sopportata in ragione di un risultato che promette, un avanzamento, un’ac- 
quisizione, un emolumento. Ma in certi casi scrivere é un atto gratuito, una 
semplice liberazione di sé, una proiezione di cid che ci sta dentro, una pietra 
scolpita in cui le nostre sensazioni confuse e mutevoli trovano la loro 
identita: scrivere, allora, é abbandonare la dimensione del vissuto — utilitaria 
— per entrare in un’altra dimensione, quella dell’espressione formale, della 
creazione — gratuita — che non fa parte se non per inciso dell’evoluzione vi- 
tale di colui che scrive. Gratuita, poiché l’azione dello scrivere appartiene al- 
lo scrivente (allo scrittore?) ma non lo scritto, cosi come il parto appartiene 
alla madre ma non il neonato. 

In che misura le regole che vado lapalissianamente enunciando sono 
applicabili alla scrittura di viaggio? Diciamo intanto, per darci un quadro di 
riferimento, che non é affatto provato che la scrittura di viaggio corrisponda 
specularmente allo sviluppo che il fatto materiale del viaggiare ha conosciu- 
to in questi ultimi secoli, anche se é innegabile la stretta relazione di neces- 
sita che esiste fra viaggiare e scrivere di viaggio. Voler legare la scrittura di 
viaggio a una tipologia di spostamenti che é europea e moderna equivale a 
non comprenderne la sterminata ricchezza che ha un solo grave limite, 


50 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


quello della possibilita di documentazione; allo stesso modo come il pensare 
che sarebbe ingenuo e impossibile scrivere oggi il proprio viaggio in Egitto 
— ma che dico?, nel proprio paese — equivale a legare indebitamente le ca- 
ratteristiche formali della scrittura di viaggio a modelli che sono per neces- 
sita datati e per fortuna irripetibili. Ora, se é vero che nessun genere quanto 
la scrittura di viaggio ha dimostrato di essere irremovibilmente ancorato ai 
modelli e gravemente ripetitivo, é anche vero che é quello che pit ha lottato 
e sofferto per rinnovarsi e ha trovato nel superamento di tali difficolta una 
ragione tenace di sopravvivenza. Finché l’'uomo avra degli orizzonti e dei 
moventi che lo spingeranno a raggiungerli non ci sara motivo di temere il 
decesso della scrittura di viaggio: bastera intendersi sul termine “scrittura” e 
imparare a riconoscerla. 

Proprio qui, invece, sta il nocciolo del problema. Senza proiettarci 
troppo nel futuro, é necessario prima di tutto riconoscere, ora, cio che é€ nel 
presente e che il passato ci ha trasmesso. Per fare cio, é necessario dimenti- 
care provvisoriamente le gerarchie letterarie che abbiamo nella mente, non 
fare questioni di grandi e meno grandi, di poesia e non-poesia, certamente 
non per affermare che il lettore possa provare lo stesso diletto nel leggere 
“Linfinito” di Leopardi o la lista degli oggetti che si porta in carrozza 
Partarrieu-Lafosse,° ma solo per allontanare, provvisoriamente, presupposti 
che velerebbero il nostro sguardo e non ci permetterebbero di applicarli, in 
seguito, con maggiore consapevolezza. Sarebbe imperdonabile se fossimo 
indotti ad assimilare alla letteratura pagine di viaggio di cui non riusciamo a 
nascondere il piattume solo perché portano la firma di un Byron, di un 
Tolstoj o di un Moratin — anche ai geni non tutte le ciambelle riescono col 
buco — e a negare cittadinanza a molte pagine deliziose figlie d’ignoto. E co- 
minciamo pure dalle liste, da questi passi un po’ indigesti che certamente a 
noi non dicono quanto dicevano a chi li scrisse: almeno per riconoscere il 
punto d’origine del nostro discorso formale. Perché, certamente, la lista — 
utilitaria — di cid che occorrera portarsi appresso non equivale, persino nello 
stesso taccuino, alla lista di cid che si ebbe la ventura di portarsi appresso; e 
tanto meno la lista di quanto si dovra vedere — in cui gia esiste un progetto 
— € assimilabile alla lista di quanto é stato visto — in cui im nuce il diario di 
viaggio é gia presente. E. significativo riconoscere che mentre per le prime 
sarebbe vano e ridicolo chiedersi quale possa essere il loro margine di fiction, 
tale domanda diventa pid che legittima e spesso rivelatrice per le seconde. 
Perché, qui sta il punto, qual é il grado di fiction della scrittura di viaggio? 
Ogni scritto di viaggio, sia pure in forma di diario o di appunto, implica 


6. Il racconto dei viaggi in Italia compiuti da questo estroso magistrato (1797-1862), 
composto di numerosi quaderni, é rimasto inedito ed é tra i progetti di pubblicazione del 
C.IR.V.I. 


ODEPORICA E LETTERATURA: CONTRO LA DISLESSIA 51 


Padozione o la presunzione di una struttura di fondo: criterio formale che lo 
distingue dalla scrittura utilitaristica e gli conferisce di conseguenza la digni- 
ta di creazione, almeno a carattere potenziale. Contrariamente a quanto av- 
viene per altre forme di scrittura, nelle note di viaggio la logica del racconto 
é sempre presente, per quanto rozze e occasionali possano essere le an- 
notazioni, e cid fa di loro fin dall’inizio una narrazione, sulla completezza e 
leggibilita della quale si dovra decidere caso per caso. Chi puo negare che gli 
appunti di Goethe,’ cosi come i disegni di Kniep® che li accompagnano, sia- 
no la prima stesura dell’Itakenische Reise ’che verra realizzata in forma com- 
piuta quarant’anni dopo? Il passaggio da un’agenda ad un’opera letteraria € 
solo una questione di organizzazione dei testi,!° nella quale operazione la 
grande discriminante é l’abilita di scrittura, ma l’atteggiamento di partenza ¢ 
lo stesso, e alla nascita di questo grado zero non puo mancare in ogni caso 
lassistenza di un’intenzione progettuale, per umile e implicita che sia. 
Entrano allora in campo altri ordini di problemi di cui tenere conto. Ci 
si deve chiedere, tanto per cominciare, se la scrittura di viaggio sia, in linea 
di principio, un prodotto riservato: note scritte per se stessi, come sem- 
brano suggerire non poche prefazioni di viaggi “pubblicati per far piacere 
agli amici e dietro loro pressante richiesta” ma divenuti, di fatto, pagina 
stampata e destinata per cid stesso alla lettura. Non si puo evitare di pensare 
che queste ingenue proteste degli autori non cambiano in sostanza la 
questione ma sono un fragile paravento contro le critiche di un lettore 
giustamente esigente. E nel caso di Montaigne, che non pubblico il suo 
diario nella forma che opera aveva assunto ma non manco di pubblicarla, 
rimeditata, in molte pagine degli Essais;!1 oppure nel caso del Presidente de 


7. Ai suoi appunti Goethe rimase fedele nella redazione del suo Viaggio in Italia, come si 
desume da quelli conservati nel fondo Goethe a Weimar. Cfr. Ernesto Guidorizzi, Echi & 
Goethe in Italia (Venezia, Cafoscarina, 1988). 


8. In Sicilia, Goethe si porto dietro il giovane pittore tedesco Christoph Heinrich Kniep, con 
Vincarico di fissare sulla carta i ricordi delle realta piu notevoli. “Non ho parole bastanti per 
far l’elogio del Kniep — scrive Goethe — che m’é stato proprio inviato dal cielo: mi ha solle- 
vato da un peso che per me sarebbe insopportabile e mi ha restituito al mio temperamento 
naturale,” intendendo con cio che, sollevato dal peso di ritrarre, poteva dedicarsi a riflettere e 
scrivere. 


9. Il racconto del Viaggio in Italia di Goethe é Yopera dell’estrema maturita dello scrittore: 
iniziato nel 1815, fu terminato nel 1829. Cfr. René Michéa, Le Voyage en Italie de Goethe” 
(Paris, Aubier-Montaigne, 1945). 

10. Annarosa Poli, nella sua edizione de La Daniella di George Sand (Roma, Bulzoni, 1977) 
cosi come gia nel suo L take dans la vie et dans lenvre de Gorge Sand (Moncalien, C.1.R.V.L, 
2000) ha studiato molto bene la progressione dal viaggio all’agenda al romanzo. 


11. Come bene ha mostrato Charles Dédéyan nel suo Essai sur le “Journal de voyage” de Mon- 
taigne (Paris, Boivin, 1946), non soltanto lultimo libro degli Essais, posteriore al viaggio in 
Italia, porta tracce evidenti delle pagine del Journal, ma non mancano, nell’edizione suc- 


52 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


Brosses, per il quale la “pubblicazione” consistette nella fabbricazione di un 
grande manoscritto calligrafico preziosamente miniato,'? assai diverso nel 
testo dagli originali,'3 il discorso della riservatezza inficia forse quello della 
creazione letteraria? E invece regola comune, per l’osservatore attento, 
scorgere, dietro questi appunti dal grado di finitezza quanto piu vario 
possibile, immagine del lettore cui sono destinati; immagine pit o meno 
incombente, variamente mediata o immediata, ma che non manca di pre- 
sentarsi, prima o poi, anche in quegli scritti che si vogliono piu personali e 
riservati.'+ E capita di scoprire che la cosiddetta riservatezza, tutto l’ap- 
parato di cautele sciorinate, di sistemi allusivi e di criptogrammi messi in 
opera, non sono altro che una finzione, il tranello che crea la ragnatela della 
fiction e acuisce la curiosita del lettore. 

D/altra parte, ci si pud chiedere se questa presenza dell’inedito, cosi 
importante in certi secoli, come il Seicento,'5 e che si va sempre piu deli- 
neando con il progresso degli studi, sia il sintomo dell’incompiutezza for- 
male di tanti testi abbandonati. Ma non pare che questa ipotesi possa reg- 
gere ad un esame pit attento: non sono rari i testi inediti comparabili 0 su- 
periori a quelli pubblicati, né mancano grandi firme in calce ad alcuni di 
questi manoscritti. E forse pit illuminante penetrare l'idea di pubblico che 
questi scrittori si facevano: per Charles de Brosses,'¢ illustre presidente del 
Parlamento di Borgogna, il pubblico non poteva certo essere il lettore di 


cessiva al viaggio, importanti varianti che sono stimabili a molte centinaia di passaggi 
rimaneggiati 


12. E il manoscritto utilizzato per le recenti edizioni che si dicono “critiche,” a partire da 
quella di Yvonne Bezard (Charles de Brosses, Lettres familitres sur ['Ttake, publiées d’aprés les 
manuscrits, avec une introduction et des notes par Y. Bezard, Paris, Firmin-Didot, 1931, 2 
vol.) Pur basandosi in realta sul solo manoscritto calligrafico, questa edizione fece tuttavia 
epoca, essendo la prima condotta filologicamente sul manoscritto considerato “definitivo.” 


13. Uno studio comparativo condotto su tutti i manoscritti a noi noti, alcuni dei quali, pur se 
non completi, ritengo stilisticamente molto superiori alla blanda redazione finale, ci ha 
permesso di rilevare oltre venticinquemila varianti, delle quali l’edizione critica dovra tenere 
conto. 


14. Esemplare il caso delle “confessioni” e dei diari di Jean-Jacques Bouchard (J.-J. Bouchard, 
Journal, a cura di Emanuele Kanceff. Torino Giappichelli, 1976-1977, 2 vol.), scritti che si 
vogliono strettamente personali ma nei quali il futuro lettore fa piu volte capolino e si legge 
fra le righe l’attesa di pubblicazione. 


15. Le ricerche che abbiamo condotto sui testi mostrano una percentuale d’inedito di circa il 
trenta per cento per il Seicento, percentuale in grado di cambiare l’aspetto del viaggio in 
Italia nel XVII secolo. Cft. il mio lavoro “De la stabilité ou du mouvement?” in Polopticon 
italiano, (Genéeve-Moncalieri, Slatkine-C.I.R.V.I., 1993), 1: 67-84. 


16. Le sue Lettres familiéres sur Ttahe, nate completamente a tavolino, da cinque a quindici anni 
dopo il viaggio, sono notoriamente uno dei capolavori della prosa settecentesca, quindi 
“nedito” di grande livello. 


ODEPORICA E LETTERATURA: CONTRO LA DISLESSIA 53 


media cultura, ma era la ristretta cerchia di aristocratici amici cui egli non 
negava i suoi scritti; cosi come per Philippe-Emmanuel de Coulanges!” il 
pubblico non era costituito dai mediocri divoratori dei romanzi di cavalleria. 
E certo, comunque, che questo rifiuto di stampare ci ha privato di molti te- 
sti — o in qualche caso ha solo rischiato di privarcene — tanto che oggi non 
possiamo che prefigurarci nell’immaginazione quale possa essere stata |’im- 
portanza delle perdite. Cid che conosciamo é cid che é stato stampato, o 
fortunosamente conservato, il che non coincide forzatamente con la parte 
migliore. Cid che conta, per noi, é che questa parte nota coincida, e 
probabilmente coincide, con quanto é stato piu elaborato, p1u costruito alla 
luce di un disegno la cui esistenza qui ci sforziamo di dimostrare. Ma non 
mancano le smentite a rammentarci ancora una volta quanto il nostro cam- 
mino sia infido. Il caso Montfaucon puo valere per tutti. Questo bene- 
dettino divenuto celebre, assieme alla sua scuola di Saint-Germain-des-Prés, 
per essere stato la punta di diamante della filologia tra Sei e Settecento, 
compi — come é€ noto — un lungo viaggio in Italia tra il 1698 e il 1701, 
raccogliendo una messe ricchissima di carte da cui, al suo ritorno, trasse il 
monumentale Diarium itahcum pubblicato a Parigi nel 1702.'8 Tuttavia, 
erudizione a parte, non si puo dire che quest’opera in-folio, che descrive 1 
piu importanti incunaboli e manoscritti delle ncche biblioteche italiane, sia il 
frutto migliore della sua scrittura di viaggio: sepolto tra le sue carte erudite 
si trova un racconto manoscritto, in francese, al quale il frate ha consegnato 
la varieta delle sue molteplici impressioni, in toni semplici, divertenti, 
persino commoventi, che abbiamo avuto il piacere di scoprire e pubblicare 
non molti anni fa!? e che ci conferma nella convinzione che l’umile lavoro 
d’archivio su umili testi puo essere gratificante. 

Il viaggio scritto é dunque passibile di esser concepito come la naturale 
— gratuita — presa di conoscenza della gratuita che fa parte di ogni avventura 
di viaggio. Sono, qui, quanto mai appropriate alcune considerazioni ana- 
loghe a quelle che Béatrice Didier ha sviluppato attorno al “diario intimo”:?° 
anche noi siamo di fronte a un genere di scrittura che nasce in contingenze 


17. Pochi sanno che il lieve chansonnier Philippe-Emmanuel de Coulanges, invidiato cugino di 
Mme de Sevigne perché poteva permettersi di andare a cavallo —- come una dama non poteva 
fare — e visitare |’Italia che anche lei bramava vedere, € autore di un inedito racconto di 
viaggio, anch’esso nei nostri programmi di pubblicazione. 


18. Bernardus de Montfaucon, Dianum Italicum, sive monumentorum veterum, bibliothecarum, 
museorum etc. notitie singulares in Itinerarto ttakco collede..., (Parisiis, apud Joannem Anisson, 
1702), in-folio. 


19. Dom Bernard de Montfaucon, Voyage en Itake-Diarium italicum: un journal en miettes. Edition 
critique, introduction et notes par Anna Galliano, (Moncalieri-Genéve, C.I.R.V.I.-Slatkine, 
1987). 


20. Cfr. Béatrice Didier, Le journal intime (Paris, P.U.F., 1976). 


54 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


diverse da quelle della creativita letteraria “professionale,”?! in modo meno 
codificato e meno regolare, ma molto pit generalizzato, appannaggio molto 
spesso di “non professionisti,” se é lecito dividere gli scrittori (o scriventi) 
in categorie; occasione, spesso, offerta alla creativita umile, che non ha sa- 
puto o voluto assumersi responsabilita pit: elevate; rifugio, ammettiamo pu- 
re, di personalita meno spiccate, per le quali il contatto diretto con uno 
schema reale é indispensabile per disegnare il tracciato dell’affabulazione. 
Ma, come Béatrice Didier per i suoi diari2? dobbiamo essere ben consa- 
pevoli della pluralita delle regole possibili, perché — ad esempio — altra cosa 
é viagpiare e scriverne, altra é viaggiare per scriverne. E forse per ragioni di 
turismo che Goethe sente ineluttabile il suo viaggio in Italia? Che lo vede 
come il compimento del destino??+ Questo fatto ha forse poche conse- 
guenze sulla scrittura del viaggio, ma moltissime sul viaggio che si fa scrit- 
tura. 

Mi pare che questa condizione ambigua della scrittura di viaggio, che 
sembra nascere lentamente, liberarsi a fatica dalle sue condizioni embrionali 
per compiere un cammino non sempre luminoso, sia stata molto bene 
intuita da Jean Mesnard quando, nel 1986, in prefazione ad una raccolta di 
studi su Les récits de voyage promossa dal C.E.R.H.IS., scriveva: 


Ecrire le voyage: nul art ne semble relever davantage d’une imitation sans 
profondeur. L’espace parcouru semble devoir s’inscrire tout naturellement 
dans l’espace de la page, le temps du parcours dans le temps de l’écriture. 
Et pourtant il n’est pas de lieu qui ne renvoie a un autre lieu, par les for- 
mes qu’il évoque, par l’émotion qu’il suscite. Le temps du voyage ne se 
conjugue pas moins au passé qu’au présent: il inclut le temps de ’huma- 
nité, dont les ages successifs sont inscrits sur le sol visité; il inclut le temps 
du voyageur, que ses pas raménent sans cesse 4 son propre passé. Voila la 


21. “Un des intéréts du journal intime est justement de faire éclater les classifications 
scolaires. Bien des diaristes n’étaient pas des écrivains professionnels — si tant est que la 
distinction entre professionnels et amateurs ait une signification” (Didier 17). 


22. “On voit que la matiére de notre étude est complexe et abondante. A prion, il est trés 
difficile d’établir des lois. Et il suffit d’en édicter une, pour qu’immeédiatement plusieurs 
exemples viennet a l’esprit qui prouveraient exctement le contraire” (Didier 25). 


23. “Da alcuni anni — scriveva in una lettera da Venezia — non potevo piu leggere un autore 
latino, né guardare alcunché che mi ricordasse I’Italia. Quando cid accadeva per caso, erano 
per me sofferenze incredibili... Se non avessi preso la risoluzione cui ora do esecuzione [di 
venire in Italia] sarei stato un uomo perduto, tanto era maturato nel mio animo il desidenio di 
vederla con i miei propri occhi.” (Itakenische Reise, prima lettera da Venezia). 


24. “Era scritto nel libro del destino, alla pagina che mi concerne, che nel 1786, il 28 
settembre, alle sei della sera, io dovessi entrare nelle lagune, e vedere per la prima volta la 
meravigliosa citta insulare” (Idd). 


ODEPORICA E LETTERATURA: CONTRO LA DISLESSIA 55 


voie ouverte aux superpositions, aux surimpressions. Mais surtout, l’es- 
pace du voyage débouche sur le non-spatial; le temps du voyage débouche 
sur l'intemporel; l’un et l’autre sur le monde de l’idée et de Pidéalité, ou les 
choses prennent sens et acquiérent la dimension qui les rend commu- 
nicables. Ecrire le voyage, c’est transformer l’expérience en conscience, 
selon le mot de Malraux. C’est moins un acte de mémoire qu’un acte de 
pensée; moins une peinture du monde qu’un approfondissement de 
homme. Sans doute le passage de l'un a l’autre ne s’opére-t-il pas tou- 
jours complétement: on peut douter alors que la finalité du récit de voyage 
soit totalement atteinte.”° 


Dubitare, appunto, che la finalita sia stata completamente raggiunta, non 
significa negarsi a un’analisi del testo e delle sue strutture 0, peggio, esclu- 
derlo a priori da una possibile cittadinanza nel paese delle lettere, poiché sia- 
mo ormai consapevoli che il tropismo di partenza puo risolversi ai pit dif- 
ferenti livelli di espressione e di elaborazione: testi alla prima o alla terza 
persona, in forma impersonale, in prosa o in versi, in sequenze telegrafiche, 
in forme cifrate — sempre per contenerci entro i confini della scrittura — in 
pagine diligentemente ricomposte, riscritte con il massimo scrupolo o per 
nulla, in illuminazioni liriche in cui la ricerca stilistica ¢ sovrana e lo slancio 
incontenibile, fino a lasciarsi dietro, a distanze abissali, il reale del viaggio 
vissuto. Che ce ne importa? Mai abbiamo preteso che questi testi facessero 
funzione di testimonianza storica, anche se non manchiamo di far tesoro 
delle loro preziose rivelazioni. 

Per trarre qualche rapida conclusione, volgendomi indietro allo stato 
della questione da cui ero partito, mi pare si possa dire che questi testi si 
sono finalmente conquistati il rispetto e la dignita che meritano. Cid che an- 
cora manca troppo sovente, vorrei pero aggiungere, é la loro leggibilita: 
quella predisposizione interiore dello studioso, del bibliotecario,” del let- 
tore, che li renda chiaramente individuabili e facilmente intelligibili. 

Il fatto é che la ricostruzione del corpus di questi scritti é impresa oggi 
impossibile; ma non sara pit impossibile quando la scrittura di viaggio sara 
naturalmente e inequivocabilmente riconosciuta nell’innumerevole sequela 
delle sue forme, come oggi lo sono il romanzo, la poesia, i “generi” che ci 
hanno insegnato a scuola e che tutti insieme con lei, per colmo di ambiguita, 


25. Jean Mesnard, “Préface”, in Centre d'Etude et de Recherche d’Histoire des Idées et de la 
Sensibilité, Les réats de voyage (Paris, Nizet, 1986): 10-11. 

26. L’attenzione del bibliotecario sarebbe particolarmente importante: senza di questa, e 
dunque in mancanza di una corretta soggettazione, i testi che possiamo qualificare come 


scritti di viaggio continueranno ad essere irreperibili, pur se presenti, nelle biblioteche del 
mondo, qualora non si parta dal nome dell’autore per le ricerche. 


56 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


possono convivere: tutte differenti espressioni della stessa esigenza pro- 
creatrice che ci sta dentro. 

Cosi, giunto a un punto che mi pare conclusivo di queste mie noterelle, 
non mi rimane che domandarmi se esse potranno trovare una gtustifica- 
zione almeno grazie all’intenzione che le ha dettate, quella di contribuire al- 
Vedificazione di una cultura del viaggio per mezzo della quale la scrittura 
che lo esprime sia oggetto ovunque di letture pit consapevoli e pit sensibili. 


Universita degh Studi di Torino — C.ILR.V.L. 


SERGIO ZATTI 





Viaggi sedentari 


n un denso libretto di recente stampa, Letteratura e viaggio (Roma-Banrt: 

Laterza, 1999), Pino Fasano ha dato espressione convincente e abbondanza 

di documentazione a una nozione intuitiva, quella del legame fra viaggio 

e scrittura letteraria, fissando alcune tappe significative di questa relazione. 
Noi lo seguiremo in parte, integrandole con altre per fissare a nostra volta un 
canone particolare, specifico: quello dei viaggiatori che i viaggi, invece di farli, 
li sognano soltanto o li immaginano nel chiuso delle loro stanze. Per questi 
viaggiatori sedentari quel legame istituzionale fra letteratura e viaggio enfatizza 
le sue valenze metatestuali, cosi che la riflessione sull’esperienza odeporica si 
congiunge significativamente a riflessioni di teoria letteraria. Non ci sorprendere- 
mo dunque che il racconto di Fasano prenda le mosse da una celebre proposizio- 
ne dei formalisti russi secondo cui il procedimento artistico della scrittura é 
assimilabile a un atto di spaesamento (ostranenie, alla lettera: straniamento). Con 
cid essi intendono sottolineare che il procedimento letterario consiste in un 
allontanamento dai meccanismi percettivi della consuetudine, che ci sottrae all’au- 
tomatismo del “riconoscimento” e ci permette di “vedere”. I] termine non 
€ scelto a caso, dice Fasano: “L’esperienza antropologica del viaggio segue 
esattamente lo stesso percorso dell’allontanamento dal noto e dal familiare e 
del confronto con laltro” (10) (forse per questo oggi é diventato impossibile 
viaggiare, perché nei diversi luoghi, omologati dalla massificazione turistica, 
rischiamo di non vedere, ma solo di riconoscere, cid che abbiamo letto in tante 
guide o visto in tanti documentari televisivi). 

Cosi viaggiare e scrivere si implicano vicendevolmente nella misura in cui 
la percezione del nuovo pertiene non meno alla funzione informativa del 
viaggiatore che a quella letteraria dello scrittore. Al punto da diventare 
“paradigma strutturale nel racconto del viaggio”, un genere che potremmo 
definire fondante e tautologico al tempo stesso, perché finge nel proprio 
contenuto cio che é intrinseco alla sua forma, ossia l’equivalenza in certo modo 
genetica viaggio=scrittura. 

Nel momento stesso in cui uno scrittore si assume il compito di trasmettere 
la percezione di una realta inedita all’esperienza del lettore, fatalmente egli lo 
intendera come esplorazione di un territorio sconosciuto, trovandosi con ci0 
“immerso nel campo metaforico del viaggio” (14). Il suo racconto sara percorso, 





Annali dTtalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


58 SERGIO ZATTI 


cammino, navigazione, ecc., con tutte le possibili declinazioni che la scrittura 
letteraria ha variamente sperimentato nel corso dei secoli: dalla navicella 
medievale di Dante alla navigazione elettronica dei nostri giorni. 

Con riguardo all’esclusivo punto di vista dello scrittore, verrebbe quasi da 
chiedersi, perché viaggiare davvero? E infatti qualche scrittore il quesito se 
lo é posto. Cosi, mentre il povero Marco Polo si é sobbarcato all’enorme fatica 
di camminare da Venezia alla Cina, andata e ritorno, il suo alter ego contempora- 
neo, il Marco Polo delle Citta invisibii di Calvino, si muove solo su una mappa, 
dove l’universo dei segni ha sostituito il viaggio fisico e lo ha ridotto alla sola 
vera dimensione che gli compete, quella cartacea, virtuale della letteratura. 

Quelli che chiamer6 viaggi sedentari, di cui abbonda soprattutto il mondo 
contemporaneo che ne ha fatto un’insegna della propria condizione, sono quelli 
che hanno preso alla lettera l’antica metafora che fa del viaggio immagine pit 
conforme della scrittura, l’equivalente materiale dell’atto narrativo. Se il viaggio 
é da sempre metafora della scrittura, a un certo punto ci si rende conto che non 
é pil necessario viaggiare per scrivere. Crescono a vista d’occhio nella modernita 
i viaggiatori stanziali, 1 viaggiatori pigri. 

Calvino segna il punto d’arrivo diun processo di progtessivo sganciamento 
dalla referenzialita che mette a nudo come il resoconto del viaggio sia un puro 
accidente del “genere”, mentre il viaggio sedentario, 1] viaggio immaginario, 
svela la radice antropologica profonda che connette il viaggio alla scrittura. 

Ad enfatizzare questa natura tutta letteraria del racconto di viaggio vale 
la catena intertestuale che collega fra loro molte di queste tappe. Vorrei 
ripercorrere a ritroso tale cammino, fissando a mia volta alcune impressioni 
di viaggio lungo quegli snodi che a me paiono piu significative nel quadro di 
questo progressivo sganciamento dalla referenzialita a cui approda la scrittura 
contemporanea. 


Dicevo dunque delle Citta invisibili di Calvino (1972): assistiamo qui alla radicale 
trasformazione dello spazio, da quello geografico del mondo attraversato in 
sella al pid famoso testo di viaggio della letteratura occidentale, I/ Mihone di 
Marco Polo, allo spazio mentale del viaggio narrato. Lo scenario del romanzo 
di Calvino, lo sappiamo bene, non é il mondo, ma l’immaginario moderno. 
Se é vero che Le cifta invisibih sono una riflessione sulla natura dei processi di 
significazione, il loro protagonista, il viaggiatore per eccellenza, si propone come 
il go-between simbolico entro i segni della comunicazione umana. In questa veste 
moderna Marco Polo percorre i luoghi sedimentati dell’immaginario storico 
(non pit luoghi, ma alla lettera topoi. Tutto il racconto é un discorso allegorico 
sulla citta non come luogo, ma come topos letterario; descritta come nei libri, 
la citta diventa leggibile come un libro, é metonimia della letteratura e della 
scrittura). Tanto é vero che il narratore non si é mosso mai, anche mentalmente, 
da Venezia: 


Era l’alba quando disse: — Sire, ormai ti ho parlato di tutte le citta che conosco. 


VIAGGI SEDENTARI 59 


— Ne resta una di cui non parli mai. 

Marco Polo chino il capo. 

— Venezia, disse il Kan. 

Marco sorrise: — E di che altro credevi che ti parlassi? 

L’imperatore non batté ciglio: — Eppure non ti ho mai sentito fare il suo nome. 
E Polo: — Ogni volta che descrivo una citta dico qualcosa di Venezia. (432) 


E questa una riflessione emblematica sulle condizioni della conoscenza umana. 
Venezia é implicita nella descrizione di tutte le altre citta visitate dal viaggiatore. 
Non é un luogo qualsiasi, ma il punto di partenza, il paradigma ineludibile 
portato sulla diversita del mondo. La citta matrice “forma” il viaggiatore, lo 
provvede dello sguardo narratologico come di un corredo genetico, producendo 
un racconto di cui essa é la condizione stessa di esistenza. Ma altresi limita la 
sua capacita di vedere perché é la lente che tutto deforma nello sforzo di 
familiarizzazione, dell’adeguamento al noto di ogni realta estranea che chiede 
per norma di essere “addomesticata” (percorso opposto a quello dello “strania- 
mento” che si vorrebbe invece a fondamento, appunto, di ogni autentica 
attitudine di conoscenza). Il vantaggio di disporre di una prospettiva stabile 
sul mondo si sconta con la parzialita della visione soggettiva che é incapace 
di restituire all’Altro, come in ogni percezione totalizzante, la integrita del proprio 
essere. La circolarita della visione di Marco Polo ammonisce implicitamente 
noi lettori sui rischi di fare dell’Altro o dell’Altrove lo strumento di una 
triangolazione ermeneutica destinata a raccontare — una volta di piu — la storia 
dell’Io. Un Io che non si € mosso mai dalla sua stanza (De Maistre) o che, al 
termine dei viaggi, si é messo a coltivare il proprio giardino (Voltaire). 

A partire dalla meta circa del romanzo lo spazio geografico dell’impero, 
una dimensione esterna, ma pur sempre indirettamente percepibile nel racconto, 
subisce una contrazione e si trasforma ancor pit in spazio interiore della mente 
e della memoria. Simbolo del viaggio virtuale diventa allora la scacchiera, 
emblema di un mondo vuoto, sconosciuto, che le trame del gioco disegnano 
nelle sue molteplici possibilita combinatorie. E dopo gli scacchi, ecco comparire 
un altro emblema, quello che presto ci fara da guida lungo il cammino: la mappa, 
Vatlante. Esso contiene tutte le citta possibili, comprese quelle inesistenti: gli 
incubi metropolitani come le terre promesse dell’utopia. 

Calvino, lo sappiamo, é stato grande lettore di Ariosto. Ora, Ariosto € 
sempre stato un viaggiatore insieme appassionato e riluttante. Nelle Sastre la 
difesa dello spazio privato, segnato dai confini domestici e protetto dalle insidie 
dell’avventura, é rivendicata come una personale forma idiosincratica di follia. 
In particolare la “Satira III” contiene una rassegna delle follie umane che ricorda 
quella pit vasta dispiegata nel mondo della Luna (Or/ando furioso, XXXIV-XXXV). 


Degli uomini son vari gli appetiti: 
a chi piace la chierca, a chi la spada, 
a chi la patria, a chi gli strani liti. 
Chi vuole andar a torno, a torno vada: 


60 SERGIO ZATTI 


vegga Inghelterra, Ongheria, Francia e Spagna: 
a me piace abitar la mia contrada. 
Visto ho Toscana, Lombardia, Romagna, 
quel monte che divide e quel che serra 
Italia, e un mare e l’altro che la bagna. 
Questo mi basta; il resto della terra, 
senza mai pagar l’oste andro cercando 
con Ptolomeo, sia il mondo in pace o in guerra; 
e tutto il mar, senza far voti quando 
lampeggi il ciel, sicuro in su le carte 
verro, piu che sui legni, volteggiando. (Satira III, 52-66) 


Ai viaggiatori per inquietudine o per vocazione e, nella circostanza, al cardinale 
Ippolito che vorrebbe portarlo con sé nella lontana Ungheria, Ariosto 
contrappone un viaggio tutto mentale sulla mappa (“andro cercando con 
Ptolomeo”) che gli consente il duplice vantaggio di una liberta praticata senza 
confini e guadagnata senza rischi. Gli spazi lontani, 1 viaggi pericolosi sono 
evocati al solo scopo di esorcizzarli cedendo al loro fascino tutto mentale. In 
questa versione della quéfe romanzesca, ironicamente svilita a domestico svago, 
si indovina fin troppo facilmente che le favolose carte altro non sono che la 
demarcazione del proprio spazio privato e che il vero piacere sta nella poesia 
come evasione intellettuale, alternativa al viaggio anche e soprattutto se parla 
di viaggio. Si osservera che non siamo lontani da quella disposizione mentale 
che accompagna il viaggio testuale del canto XLVI del Furioso, ultimo canto del 
poema che contiene anche lultimo intervento del poeta. Qui, nel momento 
del congedo dalla propria opera, Ariosto, riattivando una tradizione consolidata 
che assimila l’opera letteraria a una navigazione,' fa concidere sinonimicamente 
la mappa nautica e la carta poetica: 


Or se mi mostra la mia carta il vero, 

non é lontano a discopnrsi il porto; 

si che nel lito i voti scioglier spero 

a chi nel mar per tanta via m’ha scorto; 

ove, o di non tornar col legno intero, 

o d’errar sempte, ebbi gia il viso smorto. 

Ma mi par di veder, ma veggo certo, 

veggo la terra, e veggo il lito aperto. (Orlando furioso, XLVI, 1) 


Il pensiero é al viaggio finalmente completato, la prospettiva é quella del 
porto felicemente raggiunto, ovvero del lavoro compiuto. Infatti coincide con 
lo sguardo del poeta-nocchiero che ha appena trionfato sulle Sirene dell’errore, 
e la finzione di smarrimento vale a sottolineare per contrasto il dominio esercitato 


1. Per il topos, cfr. Ernst Robert Curtius, European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages 
(Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990), ch. 7: “Metaphorics”. 


VIAGGI SEDENTARI 61 


dall’artifex sulla propria materia narrativa. Dal viaggio, dunque, alla carta, dalla 
mappa alla scrittura. Ad enfatizzare quella sensazione di viaggio virtuale, quasi 
che il testo girasse su se stesso, é che “ad aspettare sul molo sono quelle donne 
e quei cavalieri che nel celebre esordio del poema erano annunciati come materia 
di canto e qui ne sono diventati i destinatari” (Fasano 32). Davvero il poeta 
non si é mai mosso da casa sua. 

Nella Gerusalemme hberata Cé una sorta di scienziato-mago, il vecchio di 
Ascalona che dota i due emissari di Goffredo di alcuni strumenti tratti dal 
tradizionale repertorio negromantico. Ma — ecco la novita — al vecchio libro 
magico di Merlino o di Atlante sostituisce “un breve foglio” e cioé una mappa, 
che sara indispensabile ai due liberatori di Rinaldo per orientarsi nel labirinto 
di Armida: 


Dentro é di muri inestricabil cinto 

che mille torce in sé confusi giri; 

ma in breve foglio ve 11 daro distinto, 

si che nessun error fia che v’aggiri. (XIV, 76) 


Il foglio “distingue” il labirinto di Armida proprio come una carta nautica 
disegna le rotte per navigare Oceano Atlantico ancora sconosciuto e senza 
nome dove la maga ha situato la propria dimora. Ed é anche simbolicamente 
la figura della scrittura tassiana in quanto si pensa come ordinamento e 
razionalizzazione dell’“errore” romanzesco. A questa scrittura si affida la 
promessa (mai realizzata) di un poema sulla Scoperta di Colombo, il “ligure 
Argonauta” di cui Tasso anticipa un breve elogio nel canto successivo: 
dedicandogli un poema, il poeta riempira di parole la sua pagina bianca, con 
cid riproducendo lo stesso atto colonialistico di Colombo chiamato a dare un 
nome al blank space che tuttora corrisponde all’Oceano Atlantico, popolato di 
selvaggi senza identita perché senza “fede” e senza “arte”: “la fe’ di Piero / 
fiavi introdotta ed ogni civil arte” (XV, 29). 

La cruz e la espada hanno conquistato il Nuovo Mondo: ma verrebbe da 
aggiungere ad esse la p/uma, se é vero che cartografia (Ortelius) e poesia epica 
(Tasso, Camoes, Ercilla y Zifiiga) nascevano in quegli anni inestricabilmente 
intrecciate con la politica coloniale delle potenze europee. Tracciare e nominare 
sono del resto i gesti imperialistici per eccellenza, dal momento che la Scoperta 
costruisce i suoi rituali e il primo di questi rituali é quello di dare un nome alle 
terre man mano che vengono appropriate. Penso al Tamburlaine di Marlowe 
e alla sua famosa invocazione: “Give me a map; then let me see how much / 
Is left for me to conquer all the world” (II, V, iii, 124-125). Una carta (quella 
nautica) disegna l’accesso al Nuovo Mondo, un/altra (quella poetica) si incarica 
di celebrarne la conquista. 

Il Sidereus nuncius (1610) é una sorta di giornale di bordo del viaggio siderale 
dello scienziato, viaggio tutto mentale, viaggio dello sguardo che Galileo aveva 
spinto oltre quel confine che, secondo l’astronomia tolemaica, era costituito 
dalla sfera del fuoco. Il cannocchiale aveva consentito di superare quella sorta 


62 SERGIO ZATTI 


di Colonne d’Ercole celesti arrivando a scoprire la superficie accidentata della 
Luna, la vera natura delle nebulose (e in particolare della Via Lattea) e 1 quattro 
satelliti di Giove (i cosiddetti “pianeti medicei”), dimostrando cosi la validita 
dell’intuizione copernicana. Nel canto X dell’Adone (1623) Giovan Battista 
Marino istituisce un confronto destinato a diventare topico nel Seicento fra 
Colombo, l’esploratore dei mari, e Galileo, l’indagatore dei cieli.? E ilconfronto 
premia quest’ultimo perché pit sublime la meta (cielo vs terra) e meno rischiosa 
la conquista: 


Del telescopio, a questa etate ignoto 
per te fia, Galileo, Popra composta, 
Yopra ch’al senso altrui, ben che remoto, 
fatto molto maggior l’oggetto accosta. 
Tu, solo osservator d’ogni suo moto 
e di qualunque ha in lei parte nascosta, 
potrai, senza che vel nulla ne chiuda, 
novello Endimion, mirarla ignuda. 

Aprendo il sen de ocean profondo, 
ma non senza periglio e senza guerra, 

il ligure argonauta al basso mondo 

scoprira novo cielo e nova terra. 

Tu del ciel, non del mar, Tifi secondo, 
quanto gira spiando e quanto serra, 

senza alcun rischio, ad ogni gente ascose 
scoprirai nove luci e nove cose. (X, 43, 45) 


Non per caso in 45, 2 risuona l’eco della terza “Satira” di Ariosto sui vantage 
del viaggio sedentario. L’ impresa dello scienziato consuma in un lampo 
dell’occhio indagatore il viaggio che, fra mille pericoli, hanno affrontato le 
caravelle di Colombo, e lo riduce alla innocuita diuna metafora. La celebrazione 
di una nuova epopea dell’ingegno umano non tarda a mostrare i suoi risvolti 
ambigui e paradossali. 

Qui Marino razionalmente accetta e persino esalta la nuova tecnica e la 
nuova scienza che la utilizza, ma di fatto ne travisa la natura, riportandola ad 
uno statuto non scientifico, e cioé metaforico e mitologico (Endimione e Tift): 
la letteratura, cioé, torna ad annettersi territori da cui proprio la nuova scienza 
la andava espellendo. Nel celebrare il nuovo eroe laico che ha sconfitto credenze 
inveterate (sulle macchie lunar) e ha aperto spazi inauditi alle esplorazioni 
umane, Marino individua il merito superiore di Galileo nella eccezionalita dello 
strumento adottato, una macchina capace di produrre viaggi in forma di 
metafora. Ora é ben noto il posto occupato dall’immagine del telescopio nella 


2. Si veda il saggio di Andrea Battistini “Cedat Columbus e Viasti Galilaeet due esploratori a 
confronto nell’immaginario barocco,” Ad] 10 (1992): 116-132. 


VIAGGI SEDENTARI 63 


trattatistica secentesca (basti pensare al Cannocchiale aristotehco di Emanuele 
Tesauro, dedicato proprio alla regina delle figure barocche, la metafora). Lo 
strumento approntato per Galileo consente di operare secondo i modi del poeta 
che crea metafore e opera barocche meraviglie. Ma l’operazione fa di Galileo 
un novello Endimione: grazie alla sua invenzione, che é tecnica e poetica allo 
stesso tempo, Galileo diventa un nuovo eroe mitologico. Appare evidente la 
tendenza alla ricostruzione di una mitologia, proprio dopo che si era proclamato 
che la visione della luna fatta con strumenti scientifici aveva implicitamente 
eliminato ogni residua illusione sulla sua natura. Ma é€ appunto questo 
tiassorbimento della nuova scienza nel campo della metafora e del mito che 
sta a cuore a Marino. “In fondo — osserva Casadei — Galileo é nient’altro 
che un poeta, perché crea un’illusione senza danno, non conquista, non esplora, 
ma “finge” (80) — “io nel pensier mi fingo”, dira Leopardi — , cioé crea 
un’illusione di certezza che si presta a una rinnovata costruzione mitologica. 
Il poeta, anzi, é un produttore professionale di meraviglia: grazie alle macchine 
retoriche con cui opera, l’impresa poetica, sulla scia dell’esploratore Colombo 
e dello scienziato Galileo, diventa ardimentosa navigazione per mari sconosciuti. 
Cosi chi viene celebrato nella salita al cielo di Mercurio non é il poeta /out court, 
bensi il poeta moderno, e cioé Marino stesso “cui vago desio [...] spinse e [...] 
dispose / a cercar nove terre e nove cose” (Adone 1X, 73-74), perché egli si € assunto 
il compito di andare oltre i confini delle terre colonizzate dagli antichi per 
scoprire nuovi territori poetici. 

E la sua “macchina” sara appunto la metafora, il ponte lanciato fra vecchi 
e nuovi mondi, non tanto forse caravella, quanto “cannocchiale” (come spieghera 
appunto il Tesauro). Ma si dovra convenire che “il modo di utilizzare queste 
scoperte appare dunque come fondamentalmente non galileiano, cioé lontano 
proprio dai presupposti che governano la nuova scienza: scienza e tecnica 
vengono depurate dalla carica tendenzialmente antimitologica e antiletteraria, 
e riprese in quanto fonte di un nuovo ‘meraviglioso”’ (Casadei 80). 

Al termine del viaggio, chi esce con tutti gli onori non é né il povero 
Colombo, faticatore della conquista, né il navigatore celeste Galileo, ma il 
sognatore stesso di questo viaggio, il poeta Marino. 

Troppo tenero con Colombo non é, a dire il vero, nemmeno Leopardi. 
Nel suo fortunato libro, L’ombra di Ulisse, Piero Boitani ha tracciato una 
triangolazione quanto mai suggestiva fra Ulisse, Colombo e il poeta moderno 
(115-147). “El mundo es poco”, aveva appuntato l’Ammiraglio nel suo Giornak 
di bordo, dopo il quarto e ultimo viaggio attraverso |’Atlantico. Con un gioco 
di rimandi interni Boitani gli fa replicare a distanza dal Leopardi dello Zzbaldone 
che, anzi, il mondo é vastissimo, ma é la conoscenza che lo riduce, lo fa scemare 
nella coscienza dell’uomo. L’impresa di Colombo, in sé ammirevole per coraggio 
e fantasia, di fatto omologa la Terra (“ecco tutto é simile”), rendendola uniforme 
e confinandola in “breve carta”. Colombo, che per tutta la stagione cinque- 
secentesca della Scoperta prima e della Conquista poi é stato celebrato come 
la reincarnazione moderna di Ulisse — 0 in chiave cristiana, come “adempimen- 


64 SERGIO ZATTI 


to” di quel disegno divino di cui Ulisse dantesco era stato “figura”? — ora 
diviene emblema di una modernita disillusa, un Ulisse del disinganno: 


[...] Ahi ahi, ma conosciuto il mondo 

non cresce, anzi si scema, e assai piu vasto 
Petra sonante e l’alma terra e il mare 

al fanciullin, che non al saggio, appare. 
Nostn sogni leggiadri ove son giti 
dell’ignoto ricetto 

dignoti abitatori, o del diurno 

degli astri albergo, o del nmoto letto 

della giovane Aurora, e del notturno 
occulto sonno del maggior pianeta? 

Ecco svaniro a un punto, 

e figurato é il mondo in breve carta: 

ecco tutto é simile, e discoprendo, 

solo il nulla s’accresce. A noi ti vieta 

il vero appena é giunto, 

© caro immaginar: da te s’'apparta 

nostra mente in eterno: allo stupendo 
poter tuo primo ne sottraggon gli anni: 

e il conforto peri de’ nostri affanni. (vv. 87-105) 


Un elogio quanto mai ambiguo questo della “Canzone ad Angelo Mat”, perché 
salva l’eroismo dell’uomo, ma condanna gli effetti devastanti della sua impresa. 
L’esploratore moderno é il vero responsabile della caduta dell’immaginazione 
bambina, strozzata nella culla dalla generosita con cui regala i frutti amari del 
“vero”: una sorta di tragico rovesciamento delle poetiche che da Lucrezio a 
Tasso hanno “educato” l’umanita inferma alla verita per mezzo del meraviglioso. 
Se é vero che “discoprendo” Colombo non fa altro che accrescere il “nulla”, 
con cid mette in questione il valore stesso del viaggio come fondatore di 
conoscenza (esso produce piuttosto infelicita e noia). Il Colombo di Leopardi 
“cancella il valore che l’Ulisse di Dante attribuiva all’esperienza” (Boitani 131) 
e inaugura una percezione che definirei colonialistica della conoscenza, che é 
persino piu devastante per l’immaginario moderno della stessa colonizzazione 
storica. Opportunamente Boitani ricorda in questa prospettiva il famoso passo 
del Discorso di un ttakano intorno alla poesia romantica in cui Leopardi scrive che 
“Ja fantasia che ne’ primi uomini andava liberamente vagando per immensi paesi, 
a poco a poco dilatandosi l’imperio dell’intelletto, vale a dire crescendo la pratica 
e il sapere, fugata e scacciata dalle sue terre antiche, e sempre incalzata e spinta, 
alla fine s’é veduta, come ora si vede, stipata e imprigionata e pressoch immobile” 


(483). 


3. L’uso delle categorie auerbachiane é una delle chiavi di interpretazione di Boitani del mito 
odissiaco. 


VIAGGI SEDENTARI 65 


Abituati come siamo a collegare coscienza e liberta, ci troviamo qui di fronte 
a un effetto letteralmente claustrofobico: la prigione dell’uomo indagatore si 
é materializzata nella “brevita” della carta geografica in cui egli ha depositato 
tutto il vuoto desolante della propria esperienza in una sorta di “negazione 
dilatata all’infinito” (Maria de las Nieves Muniz Muniz 84): “e figurato é 11 mondo 
in breve carta / ecco tutto é simile, e discoprendo, / solo il nulla s’accresce” 
(vv. 98-100). Davvero impressionante per moderna precocita di coscienza questa 
elegia leopardiana dei mondi che scompaiono insieme con le loro trasfigurazioni 
letterarie. Perché quelli che Leopardi cita (1 paesi dei Ciclopi, dei mangiatori 
di Loto, le isole di Eolo, delle Sirene, di Calypso e dei Feaci) non sono altro 
che i luoghi della letteratura. Pit il mondo sconfina, piu scompare il /vogo del 
viaggio, che si riduce a fopos, e cioé a qualcosa di gia visto e letto, ovvero a 
letteratura. 

Maseil segno della congiunzione tra viaggio e poesia diventa essenzialmente 
il “nulla”, cio tuttavia rilancia paradossalmente la possibilita di poesia proprio 
a partire dalla negazione dello spazio e del paesaggio. E all infinito della 
immaginazione, cioé all’annullamento dello spazio, é dedicata la piu famosa 
poesia di Leopardi. (A proposito di viaggiatori sedentari: “ma sedendo e mirando 


[.J): 


Sempre caro mi fu quest’ermo colle, 

e questa siepe, che da tanta parte 
dell’ultimo orizzonte il guardo esclude. 
Ma sedendo e mirando, interminati 
spazi di la da quella, e sovrumani 
silenzi, e profondissima quiete 

io nel pensier mi fingo; ove per poco 
il cor non si spaura. E come ilvento 
odo stormir tra queste piante, io quello 
infinito silenzio a questa voce 

vo comparando: e mi sovvien l’eterno, 
e le morte stagioni, e la presente 

e viva, e il suon di lei. Cosi tra questa 
immensita s’annega il pensier mio: 

e il naufragar m’é dolce in questo mare. 


Con “L’infinito” scompare il viaggio e scompare il paesaggio; é abolita la 
geografia ridotta alla nudita di uno spazio. Leopardi avverte tutta la limitatezza 
dell’occhio, “strumento di desertificazione del reale nel momento in cui lo 
costituisce come spazio” (Bertone 219). In questo viaggio tutto mentale la 
mappa é un blank space perché l’infinito coincide con l’indicibile, e cioé la poesia. 

Dicevamo di Ulisse: nel momento in cui sembrava fosse definitivamente 
scomparso all’orizzonte, eccolo riapparire qui, nel luogo pit celebre di tutta 
la poesia leopardiana: qui, a evocare le Colonne d’Ercole e 1 suoi divieti, una 
pit modesta siepe; e una morte per acqua, che pero ha l’incanto di un sublime 
annientamento del sé. A differenza dei grandi viaggiatori, Icaro, Ulisse, Astolfo, 


66 SERGIO ZATTI 


il poeta romantico non vola, é fermo, seduto, non ha nulla da conquistare. “FE 
— come dice Giovanni Macchia (258) — un viaggiatore immobile”. Ma é la 
stessa immobilita, l’esclusione dagli immensi spazi aperti soltanto al suo pensiero, 
e il suo farsi impotente e cieco, a spingerlo al viaggio in tutto il proprio essere. 
“E ci6 regala, a lui morto, la liberta di raccontare la storia della propria morte”. 
Cid cui Leopardi approda é il naufragio del pensiero: superate le fragili Colonne 
d'Ercole di una siepe, l’io precipita in un abisso, e questo abisso necessario € 
sentito non come la condanna di Ulisse, ma come una liberazione. “Il poeta 
moderno scopre la dolcezza di quel naufragio, del naufragio della ragione” 
(Macchia 261). 

La ricognizione di Fasano culmina con due celebri testi stranieri e converra 
anche a noi, viaggiatori sedentari, assumerli ad emblema di una modernita che 
ha proclamato “la fine dei viaggi” pur continuando a viaggiare freneticamente. 
Essi segnano due vie divaricate gia presenti, anche se in modo non esplicito, 
nei miei esempi italiani, vie che molto schematicamente protremmo indicare 
come quella auto-referenziale e quella colonialistica. 

L’immagine é la stessa, il fanciullo che sogna sulle carte geografiche. Il 
confronto tra l’apparenza di vastita che il mondo offre al fanciullo sognante 
e l’effetto di impoverimento prodotto dall’esperienza segna allegoricamente il 
passaggio alla modernita. Con “Le Voyage” Baudelaire inaugura questa svolta 
moderna, la fine degli esotismi, i cui effetti si protraggono, moltiplicati, fino 
ai nostri giorni: 


Pour l’enfant, amoureux de cartes et d’estampes, 
Lunivers est égal a son vaste appeétit. 

Ah! que le monde est grand 4 la clarté des lampes! 
Aux yeux du souvenir que le monde est petit! (vv. 1-4) 


Il mondo appate grande paradossalmente soltanto quando la tecnica lo ha ridotto 
in breve carta. Quando lo si é percorso nella sua monotona vastita la brama 
alimentata dalle carte si € convertita in nota: 


[...] Nous avons vu des astres 

Et des flots; nous avons vu des sables aussi; 

Et, malgré bien des chocs et d’imprévus désastres, 

Nous nous sommes souvent ennuyés, comme ici. 

[ ...] Amer savoir, celui qu’on tire du voyage! 

Le monde, monotone et petit, aujourd’hui, 

Hier, demain, toujours nous fait voir notre image: 

Une oasis d’horreur dans un désert d’ennuil (vv. 57-60, 109-112) 


Amaro sapere e noia non potrebbero essere piu leopardiani. L’ennuz, in 
particolare, sembra il pedaggio pagato dai moderni a quella che per gli antichi 
era la costrizione, il disagio, la fatica del viaggio (Leed). Per Baudelaire ’uomo 
moderno é un forzato del viaggio, sempre alla ricerca di un appagamento negato 


VIAGGI SEDENTARI 67 


dalla contraddizione insolubile fra coazione a viaggiare e benjaminiana 
impraticabilita dell’esperienza (di qui l’elogio ambiguo di quelli che partono 
per il gusto di partire). L’unica via d’uscita é, come per Leopardi, quella estrema: 
un naufragio, pero vissuto in certo modo euforicamente: 


O Mort, vieux capitaine, il est temps! levons l’ancre! 
Ce pays nous ennuie, 6 Mort! Appareillons! 

Si le ciel et la mer nous sont noirs comme de l’encre, 
Nos coeurs que tu connais sont remplis de rayons! 


Verse-nous ton poison pour qu'il nous réconforte! 

Nous voulons, tant ce feu nous brile le cerveau, 

Plonger au fond du gouffre, Enfer ou Ciel, qu’importe? 

Au fond de l’Inconnu pour trouver du Nouveau. (vv. 125-132) 


Quello che Baudelaire insegue con l’Inconnu e il Nouveau é il rinnovarsi di una 
meraviglia perduta nei deserti dell’Exnui metropolitano. Dopo la delusione dei 
viaggi non resta che l’evasione estrema della morte, che pero non si configura 
come negazione assoluta: come gia in Leopardi, nell’ignoto si proietta la speranza 
di scoprire ’assolutamente Nxovo, ovvero un territorio poetico ancora inesplorato. 
La quéte coincide con la stessa volonta di poesia chiamata ad esprimere la 
percezione appunto della impoetica condizione modema. “Le Voyage” conclude 
Pintera opera, Les Fleurs du mal, nel segno di una volonta di fuga dal reale che 
é pero tutta prigioniera della sua natura letteraria. Cid che conta in ogni caso 
é levare ancora (acre) e far rotta verso nuovi territori poetici della scrittura 
(encre): si tratta di un medesimo gesto liberatore, come meglio non potrebbero 
dichiarare le due parole collegate dal cortocircuito della rima. La fine dei viaggi 
inaugura l’eta della poesia moderna, quella che, caduta ogni illusione di mimesi, 
si condanna o si esalta, a seconda dei casi, all’unica esperienza di cui rimane 
capace, l’autoreferenza. 

Anche il Marlow di Conrad é un sognatore sulle carte geografiche che ripete 
il trauma gia vissuto da Leopardi e Baudelaire: la caduta dell’immaginazione 
fanciullesca, la perdita d’incanto che connota l’eta moderna in cui la breve carta 
che figura il mondo é dominata dai blank spaces. Un suo ricordo d’infanzia é 
lo spunto narrativo di Heart of Darkness. 


When I was a little chap I had a passion for maps. I would look for hours 
at South America, or Africa, or Australia, and lose myself in all the glories 
of exploration. At that time there were many blank spaces on the earth, and 
when I saw one that looked particularly inviting on a map (but they all look 
that) I would put my finger in it and say, When I grow up I will go there. The 
North Pole was one of those places, I remember. Well, I haven’t been there 
yet, and I shall not try now. The glamour is off. Other places were scattered 
about the Equator, and in every sort of latitude all over the two hemispheres. 
I have been in some of them, and. . . well, we won’t talk about that. ( 8-9) 


68 SERGIO ZATTI 


(Blank space diventa la carta della scrittura che si condanna al silenzio, all’auto- 
censura. Proprio perché in quel b/ank space la letteratura ha trovato le sue tenebre, 
il suo gouffre, il suo naufragio). 


But there was one yet — the biggest, the most blank, so to speak — that I had 
a hankening after. 

True, by this time it was not a blank space any more. It had got filled since 
my boyhood with rivers and lakes and names. It had ceased to be a blank 
space of delightful mystery — a white patch for a boy to dream gloriously 
over. It had become a place of darkness. ( 9) 


C’é un particolare, infine, ricorda Fasano (60-61), che é il centro simbolico 
del racconto e la fonte della sua seduzione affabulatoria. Qui il colonialismo 
non ha nulla pit diletterario e intellettuale come in Leopardi, ma é quello storico 
dell’Europa predatrice. “Le tenebre sono quelle della coscienza dei viaggiatori 
che diventano conquistatori. [1 fiume che attrae irresistibilmente Marlow é il 
Congo e ha sulla mappa la forma di un immenso serpente srotolato (“an 
immense snake uncoiled”), ed é questo biblico serpente che trasforma l’invito 
al viaggio nella tentazione edenica (“the snake had charmed me”)”. 

Su questo serpente conradiano il mio discorso torna a chiudersi circolarmen- 
te su se stesso. Nelle tenebre di Conrad, ma anche nella divaricazione fra il 
sapere di Marco Polo e il potere del Kan di Calvino é implicita una critica della 
vocazione imperialistica occidentale, tanto nelle sue realizzazioni storiche che 
nelle sue complicita letterarie. Con il Colombo di Leopardi si dichiara una sorta 
di impotenza o impossibilita teorica: quella scoperta cosi traumatica per la 
coscienza collettiva non rappresenta soltanto “un primum causal”, ma fissa “il 
paradigma della dialettica sogno/scienza” insita in ogni atto di umana conquista 
(Muniz 87): la dialettica della scoperta, del colonialismo che uccide ogni 
esotismo, ogni utopia dell’altrove, nel momento stesso in cui lo costituisce e 
lo rende possibile. 

L’immagine della mappa, nella sua pregnanza allusiva, sembra indicare due 
vie che non potrebbero essere piu alternative: una alleanza storicamente complice 
della letteratura con la vocazione imperialistica dell’?Occidente, o l’esorcizzazione 
di questa attraverso il suo ridursi al silenzio, al naufragio, al blank space. 
Ritrovando la lettera sotto la metafora, riducendo la diacronia del viaggio alla 
puntualita del topos, la letteratura riscopre in certo modo uno spazio innocente 
e una vocazione originaria, quelli della propria autoreferenza. 


Universita degh Studi di Pisa 


VIAGGI SEDENTARI 69 


Opere citate 
Bertone, Giorgio. Lo sguardo escluso. L idea di paesaggio nella letteratura occidentale. Novara: 
Interlinea, 1999. 
Boitani, Piero. L‘ombra di Ulisse. Figure di un mito. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1992. 


Calvino, Italo. Le atta invisibii, in Romanzi e racconti, ed. Claudio Milanini. Milano 
Mondadori, 1992, “I Meridiani”, 2: 357-498. 


Casadei, Alberto. La fine degit incanti. Vicende del poema eroico-cavalleresco nel Rinascimento. 
Milano: Franco Angeli, 1997. 


Colombo, Cristoforo, Giornale di bordo, in Scopritori e viaggiatori del Cinquecento e del Seicento, 
a cura di I. Luzzana Caraci. Napoli: Ricciardi 1991, pp. 51-117. 


Conrad, Joseph. Heart of Darkness, ed. Cary] Phillips. New York: The Modern Library, 
1999. 


Fasano, Pino. Letteratura e viaggio. Roma-Bari: Laterza, 1999. 
Galilei, Galileo. Sidereus Nuncius, a cura di F. Flora. Torino, Einaudi 1976. 


Leed, Eric J. The Mind of the Traveler. From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism. New Y ork: Basic 
Book, 1991. 


Leopardi, Giacomo. Canti, a cura di E .Peruzzi. Milano, Rizzoli 1981. 


. Discorso di un italiano intorno alla poesia romantica, in Tutte le opere, a cura di 
F. Flora. Milano: Mondadon, 1973, 2: 467-549. 


Macchia, Giovanni. “Leopardi e il viaggiatore immobile” in Saggi itahani. Milano: 
Mondadon, 1983. 


Maistre, Xavier de, Voyage autour de ma chambre. Paris: Corti, 1984. 
Marino, Giovanbattista, Adone, a cura di G.Pozzi. Milano: Adelphi 1988. 


Mufiiz Muniz, Maria de las Nieves, “Le quiete e vaste californie selve (sullo spazio 
immaginario in Leopardi)”, La Rassegna della letteratura itahana (gennaio-agosto 1993). 


Tasso, Torquato, Gerusalemme hberata, a cura di L.Carett. Torino: Einaudi 1970. 
Tesauro, Emanuele, I/ Cannocchiale aristoteiico. Torino: Bartolomeo Zavatta, 1780. 


Voltaire, Candide, ou loptimisme, éd. critique par R. Pomeau. Paris: Nizet, 1979. 


qj ! 
. ~ J, 
RES Q ha 


SES 
SSE 





THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 





The End of the Journey: 
from Gilgamesh to Le citta invisibili 


We shall not cease from exploration 
And the end of all our exploring 

Will be to arrive where we started 
And know the place for the first time. 
(T. S. Eliot, “Little Gidding V ”) 


hat does it mean to speak of the end of the journey? From the 

perspective of the history of travel, it means that the geographical 

explorations and discoveries launched during the Renaissance 
have run their course, that there are no more un-charted waters to sail, no 
new worlds to discover and to conquer, and that the journey of Western 
civilization, understood as successive episodes of franslatio imperii, has 
reached a kind of apotheosis in contemporary globalization. In the material 
and physical terms of terrestrial journeys it is by now commonplace to 
observe that travel has been replaced by global tourism.'! To speak of the 
end of the journey in this sense reflects an awareness of the historical and 
material impact of what David Harvey has called “space-time compression” 
on the classical paradigms and functions of travel as an agent of history.” 


1. Giulio Ferroni writes: “[...| the planetary expansion of the industrial economy, the possi- 
bility of reaching rapidly and efficiently anywhere on the planet, the simultaneous presence 
of infinite means of transport everywhere constantly in movement have definitively altered 
the nature of the journey itself. [...] A certain type of tourism is only a means of transferring 
everywhere one’s own world. [...] From the second half of the 19th century to today there is 
a literature of ‘the end of the journey,’ from Conrad to Céline to Beckett: in Italian literature 
one can find noteworthy manifestations in Pirandello, Landolfi, Montale, Gadda, Calvino, 
Morante, Caproni, Zanzotto, Sanguinetti and also many writers of the more recent genera- 
tions” [“La fine del viaggio,” in Storia della letteratura italiana: I! Novecento (Milano: Einaudi, 
1991): 728-29]. 


2. David Harvey, “The Time and Space of the Enlightenment Project,” in The Condition of 
Postmodernity (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1989): 240-59. For a synthetic treatment of Harvey’s 
construction of an “historical geography of space and time,” including some of its implica- 





Annali dTtalianistica 21(2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


qZ THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


At another level, however, to speak of the end of the journey in its 
metaphorical valence (and as Tzvetan Todorov has observed, “one has ne- 
ver been able to refrain from doing so,” 287) is to address the reality of 
man's spatial and temporal finitude, both in an individual and collective 
sense. From this vantage point, one can see that the topic of the end of the 
journey is not a new theme. On the contrary, it has represented a deep 
concern of the literature of travel from its very beginnings, going back to 
the Epic of Gilgamesh, where the hero’s resistance to the inevitability of death 
motivated travel in its first instance. The classical hero/ subject of Western 
civilization since Gilgamesh has, in fact, vainly sought to overcome time by 
extending the range of the self in space (also through fame), and to circum- 
vent death by seeking even to travel “beyond the bounds” of this life, like 
Dante’s Ulysses who tried to go to a world “di retro al sole, del mondo 
sanza gente” (Inf. 26: 117). Travel literature itself has meanwhile attempted 
to overcome the temporality of this heroic journey by writing it down, rep- 
resenting yet another form of spatial intervention (that is, as a vehicle for 
the self’s location and extension in space) and therefore a special form of 
resistance to ineluctable tyrannies of time. 

Taking the journey in this metaphorical sense (but it should be clear 
that in this sense the journey is finally not so metaphorical at all), we can see 
that travel and the literature of travel have been preoccupied with the end 
of the journey from the point of departure, and that this theme which is so 
characteristic of the modern/ post-modern epoch was first addressed in the 
Epic of Gilgamesh. This fact accounts in large measure for the marvelously 
contemporary feel of a poem written down over three thousand years ago 
for today’s reader. The text, which was lost until, in the 1850s, archaeolo- 
gists unearthed the clay tablets of the Assyrian royal libraries of Nineveh, 
evidently had to be forgotten in order to enable the history of western co- 
lonial travel that has transpired since Marco Polo and which has come to an 
end during our contemporary “post-colonial” period.> The famous Society 
for Biblical Archaeology lecture given in London in 1872 by George Smith 
on the climax of the epic, the Babylonian Flood Story, and the poem’s first 
publication in book form in 1891 coincided with the emergence of the “end 
of the journey” theme in modern literature, and this helps to explain the 
passionate engagement of scholars, critics and poets, from Rilke to David 


tions for aesthetics, see “Between Space and Time: Reflections on the Geographical Imagi- 
nation,” Amnals of the Association of American Geographers, 80 (1990): 418-34. 


3. For Todorov the classical period of modern western travel writing begins with Marco 
Polo and corresponds to the narrative of colonial journeys during “the long period that ex- 
tends from the Renaissance to about 1950” (294). 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 73 


Ferry, since that time.* The extent to which the recently concluded history 
of western travel, including its postcolonial aftermath is already figurally 
present in the Gilgamesh poem is indeed remarkable. 

But if Gilgamesh proleptically figures the inevitable end of the epic, i.e. 
colonial journey(s) of the subject and of human civilization, another aspect 
of the end of the journey not exhaustively addressed by the poem is the 
self's mobility in space in its specifically literary dimension, which I take to 
be characteristic of the early modern and modern world. This other trajec- 
tory of the self’s journey through literature is a modern development, and 
traces its origins, particularly in its spatial aspects, to the beginning of hu- 
manism and to the invention of modern literature in Petrarch. This unfold- 
ing of the journey as literature reaches a kind of watershed, towards the end 
of the journey, in Italo Calvino’s Le citia invisibih. What the Epic of Gilgamesh 
and Le atta inusiii have in common, however, is that both present re- 
sponses in the realm of space to the recognition of the inevitability of the 
end of the journey. At the end of his ceaseless journeying Gilgamesh re- 
turns home to the city of Uruk, writes down his journey on stone tablets, 
restores the city’s holy places that were ruined in the deluge, and invites our 
admiration of the architecture of the city’s walls. Calvino, for his part, es- 
tablishes the space of literature in opposition to the journey’s end in the 
material and physical realm of colonial travel (“il momento disperato in cui 
Si scopre che quest’impero che ci era sembrato la somma di tutte le 
meraviglie é uno sfacelo senza fine né forma,” 13). He constructs the archi- 
tecture of the aesthetic object of the book of “invisible cities,” through 
which he invites the reader to “cercare e sapere riconoscere chi e cosa in 
mezzo all’inferno, non é inferno, e farlo durare e dargh spazio” (170, empha- 
sis mine). 


1. “I have grown afraid of death, so I roam the steppe” 
(Gilgamesh, X. 172) 


The historian of travel Eric Leed has identified Gilgamesh’s desire for fame, 
which is stimulated by the presentiment of death, as the specific motivation 
for Gilgamesh’s fateful first departure from Uruk together with Enkidu to 
kill the monster Humbaba, guardian of the forest: 


People’s days are numbered, 
Whatever they attempt is a puff of air. [...] 


4. William L. Moran, “Rilke and the Gilgamesh Epic,” Journal of Cuneiform Studies 32 (1980): 
208-210. 


74 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


I will go before you, 

You can call out to me, “Go on, be not afraid!” 

If I fall on the way, I'll establish my name: 
“Gilgamesh, who joined battle with fierce Humbaba” 
(they'll say). (Gilgamesh, 19; [tablet 2: 186-194}) 


According to Leed, Gilgamesh's departure from Uruk represents "the earli- 
est depicted in western travel literature" and is characteristic of the heroic 
journey both for its motivation and for the intensity of emotion that Gil- 
gamesh’s departure elicits (Leed 28). An awareness of the inevitability of 
death supplies the chief motive for Gilgamesh’s departure, just as the pre- 
sentiment of death will subsequently motivate the departures of heroic fig- 
ures of myth and history, ranging from the final journey of Dante's Ulys- 
ses (“Io e? compagni eravam vecchi e tardi,” Inf 26: 106) in the mythic 
realm, to the historical journeys of exploration and discovery, including, for 
instance, that of the Renaissance travel writer Antonio Pigafetta who joined 
Magellan's expedition and proposed to write about it in order "to gain some 
renown with posterity.”> 

In fact, at the root of travel literature lies the same desire to circumvent 
death that motivates the physical journey of the hero in space and time in 
the first place. Although unremarked upon by Leed, a lucid awareness of 
travel and travel literature as complementary responses to the problem of 
the inevitability of "the end of the journey” informs the Epic of Gilgamesh in 
the Standard Babylonian version that the Mesopotamian tradition attributed 
to Sin-leqi-unninni, a scholar who lived in the second half of the second 
millennium (Tigay 12-13). The hero of the epic is styled a travel writer in 
the first tablet, in a prologue which stresses the didactic significance of the 
poem and suggests that some form of the poem we are about to read was 
first written by Gilgamesh, the traveler, upon his return: 


From a distant journey [Gilgamesh] came home, weary, and at 
peace, 
Engraved all his hardships on a monument of stone. [...] 
[Search out the foundation box of copper, 
[Release] its lock of bronze, 
Raise the lid upon its hidden contents, 
Take up and read from the lapis tablet 
Of him, Gilgamesh, who underwent many hardships. 
(Gilgamesh 3; tabl. 1: 9-10; 25-29) 


5. Antonio Pigafetta, The First Voyage Around the World (1519-1522): An Account of Magellan's 
Expedition, ed. Theodore J. Cachey, Jr. (New York: Marsilio, 1995): 4. 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 75 


In terms of the history of travel, Gilgamesh ought to be considered not 
only the earliest heroic traveler but also the tradition’s first travel writer. 
His account of his journey is tantamount to the composition of the epic 
itself and represents the earliest expression of Leed’s powerful idea that the 
“circumvention of death, too, is at the root of travel literature, those stories 
of journeys that seek to fix and perpetuate something as transient and im- 
permanent as human action and mobility” (Leed 28). 

I will return to the problem of the relation between travel and travel 
writing as interrelated “spatializing” responses to the temporal problem 
posed by the inevitability of human finitude in the second part of this essay 
dedicated to Le atta inusilih. My intent in calling attention at the outset to 
its presence as a framing thematic in the Epic of Gilgamesh is simply to sug- 
gest, on the one hand, that Leed’s discussion of the importance of the 
poem for the history of travel, while path-breaking, is not exhaustive, and, 
on the other, to give some sense of the self-consciousness and sophistica- 
tion of the Standard Babylonian version (i.e., its self-referentiality as literary 
artifact) which brought together in its eleven tablets diverse elements of the 
received tradition into a unified whole. In fact, the Epic of Gilgamesh offers 
an extremely advanced, even post-colonial, reflection on the “end of the 
journey” which shows striking continuities with the position assumed in a 
modernist/ postmodern response to the same theme by Calvino in Le «itta 
innsibth. 

Simply stated, the didactic poem describes Gilgamesh transcending a 
stage of heroic adolescence. The death of his companion Enkidu brings 
home as never before the reality of the hero’s own mortality. Gilgamesh’s 
subsequent travels present him anxiously mourning both Enkidu’s death 
and his own mortality. Eventually the hero returns to Uruk reconciled to 
the inevitable end of the journey and possessing a new appreciation for 
home and the virtues of “placedness” (also deepened by the memory of the 
apocalypse of the flood story related by Utanapishtim in the final tablet). 
Gilgamesh, upon his return, restores “the holy places the deluge had des- 
troyed,” maintains (and admires) the walls of Uruk, and writes down the 
story of his own journey on stone tablets. The broad outline of this figural 
trajectory of the hero’s journey ought to sound familiar to students of the 
early modern history of colonial travel beginning with the “Discovery of 
America” and its postmodern (touristic) aftermath, as well as those en- 


6. In the Discovery of America: the Question of the Other (New York: HarperCollins, 1984), T. 
Todorov described the discovery of America as “the most astonishing encounter of our 
history” (4) and set out to show that “it is in fact the conquest of America that heralds and 
establishes our present identity” (5). 


76 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


gaged in the debate about time and space as competing epistemological ori- 
entations for aesthetic and social theory.’ 

But let’s begin by tracing the history of early modern travel and its af- 
termath in the Babylonian epic. Gilgamesh’s heroic strength and energy, 
initially described as a burden on the city are relieved in part by means of 
his struggle with Enkidu, and engaged by the conquest of the Cedar Forest 
so “that Uruk may have peace” (1: 90-93). These correspond to the surplus 
heroic energies of classical-medieval Mediterranean cultures that are ex- 
pressed in the mythic realm by Dante’s Ulysses on the eve of the age of 
Atlantic exploration and discovery, and subsequently materialized in the 
conquistas of the various Corteses, Pizarros, and Aguirres in the Americas. 
On the other hand, the process of Enkidu’s acculturation and Gilgamesh’s 
encounter with the natural man prefigures subsequent encounters between 
“primitive” and “civilized” peoples (Tigay 209-10).8 The domestication of 
Enkidu, in its immediate Babylonian context, describes the transition of 
primitive culture from the wilderness to the civilized life of the city and this 
“conversion/ conquest” foreshadows the processes of acculturation real- 
ized by the European encounter with the Americas. 

For example, anthropological analogies to the acculturation of Enkidu 
by means of the temple harlot in the history of transatlantic encounters in- 
clude Amerindian go-betweens ranging from Columbus’s Taino princess 
Anacaona, Cortes’s Malinche, and Sacajaweja of Lewis and Clark.? While 
the incorporation of the natural man into the city is accomplished by a 
temple prostitute in the Epic of Gilgamesh (nature > culture), the Amerindian 
woman provides the European traveler with access (culture > nature), lead- 
ing to dominion in the territories of the New World. The end of these 
processes of incorporation is, without respect to their “directionality,” in 
both cases to “civilize” nature. Enkidu embodies the arrival of “natural 
man” to civilization and to the culture of cities, prefiguring in the process 
the entry of the indigenous peoples of the Americas and the rest of the 
world to the global world city network of modernity. 

In the Epic of Gilgamesh as in history this development is not pacific. A 
struggle between “natural” and “civilized” man takes place, and with the 


7. For a spirited polemical take on the question, see Roberto Dainotto, Place in Literature. 
Regions, Cultures, Communities (Ithaca: Cornell UP, 2000): 1-33. David Harvey, “Between Time 
and Space,” proposes “bringing together understandings that give space priority over time 
with those that give time priority over space” ( 430). 


8. See also William L. Moran, “Ovid’s Blanda Voluptas and the Humanization of Enkidu,” 
Journal of Near Eastern Studies 90 (1991): 121-127. 


9. Leed has noted “the vital importance of the agency of women in the procedures of incor- 
poration—-exchange of gifts, food, substances, recognitions—through which human groups 
absorb strangers and form lasting bonds to territory ” (111-129). 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 77 


same outcome in history as in the epic. Enkidu attempts to block Gilga- 
mesh’s exercise of the kingly prerogative of the jus primae noctis (Tigay 182- 
84, 188-89): they grapple and Gilgamesh prevails (2: 99-114). The object of 
Europe’s “imperial” desire and conquest, the “New World” is, interestingly, 
usually gendered female as is Enkidu.!° Both “civilized” and “natural” man, 
according to the mythic western vision of these events, are transformed by 
their encounter and together join forces in a renewed struggle by Euro- 
American culture to dominate nature. 

Accordingly, there follows the lengthy section dedicated to the con- 
quest of the guardian of the forest Humbaba. Gilgamesh and Enkidu un- 
dertake together to accomplish the economic appropriation of the cedar 
forest for the use of the city (2: 141- V. 172): “Gilgamesh cut down the 
trees/ Enkidu chose the timbers” (5: 154-55), an exploit that prefigures the 
global colonial conquest of nature undertaken by Euro-American culture 
together with the indigenous peoples of the world in the early modern and 
modern periods. The hubris involved in the attack upon the natural world 
figured by the killing of Humbaba and the conquest of the forest eventually 
leads to a state of ecological crisis in our own day. Gilgamesh’s spurning of 
the goddess Ishtar’s propositions in Tablet 6, on the other hand, represents 
a second act of hubris by the hero who, in this case, treats with disdain the 
deity of the city of Uruk. In effect, Gilgamesh refuses the deity’s offer of 
personal and civic fertility. The conquest and exploitation of nature are 
accompanied by modernity’s hubristic disdain for the gods and of religion 
in general, which is figured in Gilgamesh and Enkidu’s subsequent killing of 
the bull of heaven (6: 116-181), for which they are condemned by the gods 
and for which one of them must die. The outcome of the subsequent con- 
ference of the gods is the decision that Enkidu must die in order to expiate 
the impiety of Gilgamesh and Enkidu. Tablet 7 opens with Enkidu cursing 
the cedar door that he had made as a trophy from the Cedar Forest. 

The figure of Enkidu as the maker of the door (an obvious image of 
transcendence and crossing of thresholds) through which he will not pass 
and which is in fact responsible for his demise, vividly depicts the part 
played by “natural man” in history. The death of the “other,” that is, of the 
indigenous and pre-modern peoples of the world, no less than humanism’s 
recognition of the irrevocable loss of the classical world brings about in 
European consciousness a heightened awareness of the transience of all 
cultures and of human life. This awareness historically traces its origins to 


10. Thomas Van Nortwick, “The Wild Man: The Epic of Gilgamesh,” in Somewhere I Have 
Never Travelled: The Second Self and the Hero’s Journey in Anaent Epic. (New York: Oxford UP, 
1992): 17-19. 


78 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


humanism’s (and signally, to Petrarch’s) melancholic recognition of moder- 
nity’s belatedness with respect to the classical world, a coming to awareness 
that was contemporary with the inauguration of the Atlantic period of dis- 
covery, exploration and conquest, beginning with the re-discovery of the 
Canary Islands in the mid-14th century.'! This new humanistic awareness is 
reinforced and reaches a crescendo during the early modern and modern 
periods which witness the death of indigenous peoples and traditional cul- 
tures and languages before the onslaught of modernity. Once Enkidu dies, 
gone is the easy heroic defiance of death that had characterized the journey 
to the Cedar Forest of Gilgamesh and Enkidu and their defeat of the bull of 
heaven. 1? 

In Tablet 8 Gilgamesh laments Enkidu’s fate. He will make him a 
monument, and then “I will let my hair grow matted,/ I will put on a lion 
skin and roam the steppe!” [8: 78-79]. Tablet 9, in fact, finds him distraught, 
roaming the steppe. At bottom, Gilgamesh’s travels after the death of En- 
kidu are motivated by a more profound awareness of mortality than that 
which had motivated the journey to the Cedar Forest that originally at- 
tracted Leed’s attention. Now Gilgamesh’s travel is described during the 
final journey of the poem as a “restless roaming in the steppe” (for in- 
stance, at 9: 26-7, 10: 101-102 and 10: 151) at the same time that it is incon- 
gruously described as a quest to find Utanapishtim, from whom Gilgamesh 
seeks to obtain the secret of eternal life. Gilgamesh’s travel to the end of 
the earth is characterized both as a mournful wandering and as a goal- 
directed quest. This paradoxical aspect of Gilgamesh’s travels following the 
death of Enkidu is distinctively modern and prefigures the ambivalent jour- 
neys of the first great melancholic traveler of modernity, Francesco Pet- 
rarca: 


Solo e pensoso 1 piu deserti campi 
Vo mesurando a passi tardi e lenti; 
E gli occhi porto, per fuggire, intenti, 


Ove vestigio uman l’arena stampi. (Canzoniere 35) 


In this melancholic, Bellerophonic aspect, Petrarchan travel is analogous to 
Gilgamesh’s roaming in so far as it is inspired by the poet’s deep awareness 
of the inevitability of death, of Laura’s, of his own, and of the ineluctable 


11. Theodore J. Cachey Jr., “Petrarch, Boccaccio and the New World Encounter,” Stanford 
Italian Review: Perspectives on the Itahan Renaissance 10 (1991): 45-59. 


12. See Van Nortwick, Somewhere I Have Never Travelled. “Of all the things about ourselves we 
must learn to live with, mortality is one of the most fundamental and most difficult” (27-28). 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 79 


passing of time. '3 Yet, like Gilgamesh’s, Petrarchan travel also expressed 
an heroic quest-like aspect, for instance in the poet’s positive rewriting of 
Dante’s Ulysses: “Compare my wanderings to those of Ulysses. If the repu- 
tation of our name and of our achievements were the same, he indeed trav- 
eled neither more nor further than I” (Familiares 1.1). Petrarch adopted the 
Greek hero as a positive exemplar of humanist travel that strives to go ever 
beyond the bounds, to push on even to the edges of the earth.!* The desire 
to overcome the same limit of temporality against which Gilgamesh strives 
inspired Petrarch’s Ulysses-like travel. But like Gilgamesh’s, Petrarch’s 
quest was haunted by the same deep awareness that shipwreck awaited him 
as the ultimate boundary and limit to the journey. 

The death of Enkidu stimulates Gilgamesh’s mourning and renewed 
travels in search of immortality. Similarly, mourning, melancholia and nos- 
talgia for the pre-modern world motivate the frenetic and anxiety-ridden 
travels of today’s tourists. Like Gilgamesh’s travels, modern tourism pre- 
sents simultaneously aspects of melancholic roaming and frenetic questing, 
and is a form of travel vitiated by the anxiety about and fear of death that 
motivates it.'5 This distinctively modernistic and paradoxical aspect of Gil- 
gamesh’s travels following the death of Enkidu colors the account of his 
travels. That is to say, the paradigm of the quest is undermined by the 
theme of Gilgamesh’s prior and contemporary “restless roaming [of] the 
steppe.” At one point Gilgamesh is explicitly undecided between the two 
options: “If need be, Pll cross the sea, if not, Pll roam the steppe” (10: 
186.7). This ironic tension underlying Gilgamesh’s travel explains the de- 
tached, vaguely parodic treatment of the quest journey to Utanapishtim that 
takes up the latter part of the work. The melancholic “humour” of the 
hero’s quest is expressed, for instance, in the description of the hero’s 12- 
hour race through the mountain tunnel in which, like a transatlantic airline 
passenger, he travels faster than the sun: 


13. Cf. Secretum, 3, 156: “Remember your sadness, your love of solitude, your flight from the 
company of others. Indeed, what Homer said of Bellerophon could equally be applied to 
you: ‘This man, suffering and in mourning, who wandered into foreign camps, eating his 
heart out, shunning all traces of humankind’ [The Secret, ed. Carol E. Quillen (Boston: Bed- 
ford/St. Martin’s, 2003): 116]. For Bellerophon as a source for Petrarchan solitude, see 
Manlio Pastore Stocchi, “Divagazioni su due solitari: Bellerofonte e Petrarca,” in Da Dante al 
Novecento (Milano: Mursia, 1970): 63-83. 


14. On Petrarch’s Ulysses, see Petrarch’s Guide to the Holy Land, ed. Theodore J. Cachey Jr., 
(Notre Dame: Notre Dame UP, 2002): 47-48 and Piero Boitani, The Shadow of Ulysses: Figures 
of a Myth (Oxford: Oxford UP, 1994): 47-49. 


15. See Caren Kaplan, Oxestions of Travel (Durham: Duke UP, 1996): 33-36 for discussion of 
Renato Rosaldo’s notion of “imperialist nostalgia” and its relation to contemporary tourism 
as theorized by Dean McCannell, among others. 


80 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


When he had gone one double hour, 

Dense was the darkness, no light was there, 

It would not let him look behind him. 

When he had gone two double hours, 

Dense was the darkness, no light was there. 

It would not let him look behind him. (9: 82- 87) [...] 

When he had gone ten double hours, 

[The time for the sun’s entry] was drawing near. 

[When he had gone eleven double hours], just one double 

hour [was left], 

[When he had gone twelve double hours], he came out 
ahead of the sun! (9: 110-113) 


In Tablet 10, at the end of the earth, appropriately enough, given the mel- 
ancholic “touristic” resonances of his travel, Gilgamesh encounters the tav- 
ern keeper Siduri, and one is left to wonder who the clients might be for a 
tavern at the end of the earth. The message to Gilgamesh contained in 
Siduri’s speech is not simply “carpe diem,” as it is often read (10: 77-91). She 
also tells him to go home and start a family. In this Siduri foreshadows the 
final didactic turn of the epic which asserts the uselessness of ceaseless 
journeying, even to the ends of the earth. The wisdom and “humanity” of 
staying at home is a theme that had been foreshadowed at the outset of the 
epic when the elders of Uruk urged Gilgamesh to return from the expedi- 
tion of the Cedar Forest and raise a family: “Let him return to be a grave 
husband” (3: 146).16 

Finally, however, Siduri tells Gilgamesh he can cross the sea to Utanap- 
ishtim with the boatman Ur-Shanabi (10: 103-115). When Ur-Shanabi asks 
the hero somewhat incongruously (as he is about to undertake the culminat- 
ing leg of his epic quest): “why are you clad in a lion skin, roaming the 
steppe” (10: 151), Gilgamesh replies: “I have grown afraid of death, so I 
roam the steppe” (10: 172). As in Gilgamesh’s passage through the moun- 
tain tunnel, a vaguely mock-heroic tone can be discerned in the description 
of this final leg of the journey: 


Stand back, Gilgamesh! Take the first [pole], 

Your hand must not touch the waters of death [...], 

Take the second, the third, the fourth pole, Gilgamesh [10: 211-213] 
[.... With twice sixty Gilgamesh had used up the poles. 


16. See Tzvi Abusch, “Mourning the Death of a Friend: Some Assyriological Notes,” in 
Gilgamesh: A Reader, ed. John Maier (Wauconda, Ill.: Bolchazy-Carducci, 1997): “Our story is 
one in which Siduri refuses to provide a home for Gilgamesh and advises him instead to 
return to his own home” (115). 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 81 


Then he, for his part, took off his belt [...], 
Gilgamesh tore off his clothes from his body, 
Held high his arms for a mast [...]. (10: 217-220) 


Upon arrival, Utanapishtim also asks, again, somewhat incongruously given 
the context of the quest: “Why are you clad in a lion skin, roaming the 
steppe?” (10: 237) and admonishes the hero: “You strive ceaselessly, what 
do you gain” (10: 297). When Gilgamesh asks Utanapishtim how he found 
eternal life, the eternal man replies with the story of the flood which takes 
up more than half of the eleventh tablet (11: 15-196). Knowledge of the 
flood, in fact, according to the poem’s prologue, is among the most impor- 
tant acquisitions that Gilgamesh will bring back from his journey: “He saw 
what was secret and revealed what was hidden,/ He brought back tidings 
from before the flood” (1: 7-8). 

The account of the flood is probably an innovation of the form Sin- 
legi-unninni (or the author of the standard version) gave the poem. There 
is good reason to believe that the full flood story was not part of the epic 
before the late version. That it belongs with the frame is suggested by the 
stress which the prologue, also generally attributed to Sin-legi-unninni, 
places upon it.!’ Tigay has explained the prominence of the flood story, 
observing that, “by telling his story to Gilgamesh Utanapishtim shows him 
that his own attainment of immortality was due to a set of unique unrepeat- 
able circumstances” (239). Yet, this does not explain the thematic function 
and pertinence of the flood story, nor does Tigay’s further suggestion that 
the story functions as an artistic digression intended to build or relax sus- 
pense on the part of the audience finally resolve the question of its function 
within the general ideology of the Standard Babylonian version. 

The story of the apocalypse of the flood as related to Gilgamesh and, 
by extension, to his eventual audience back in Uruk has for us a didactic 
function vis-a-vis humanity that has “survived” the flood which is directly 
parallel to the function of the hero’s experience of the death of Enkidu. 
That is to say, it is intended to bring about a heightened awareness of the 
fragility of life and through the experience of the death/apocalypse of an 
“other” prior civilization to bring about a transformation at the level of the 
community analogous to the one undergone by the hero. As a part of the 
frame, probably conceived by Sin-leqi-unninni, the new knowledge Gil- 
gamesh brings back of the flood, following the final romance-like complica- 


+2? 


tion of the “prickly plant,” issues in Gilgamesh’s final invitation to Ur- 


17. Thorkild Jacobsen, “‘And Death the Journey’s End’: The Gilgamesh Epic,” in The Epic 
of Gilgamesh, 203. 


82 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


Shanabi, upon completing his journey of return to the city, to inspect and 
admire the walls of Uruk: 


Go up, 

Ur-Shanabi, pace out the walls of Uruk. 

Study the foundation terrace and examine the brickwork. 

Is not its masonry of kiln-fired brick? 

And did not seven masters lay its foundations? 

One square mile of city, one square mile of gardens, 

One square mile of clay pits, a half square mile of Ishtar’s 
dwelling, 

Three and a half square miles is the measure of Uruk! = (11:326-34) 


The narrator repeats the same words to the audience in the prologue. The 
quest for eternal life ends with a celebration of works of architecture, or 
“urban planning” and of walls, which, unlike the poem (evidently a sturdier 
spatial construct against the stresses of time) have not survived. The con- 
clusion might appear an utter ironic failure. But Gilgamesh’s simple de- 
scription of a great civic work is significant, for by giving it he signals his 
renewed appreciation for the city as home in the face of the inevitability of 
the journey’s end. The image of the walls of the city and of the poem itself 
which Gilgamesh writes down on “stone tablets” are not so much substi- 
tutes for immortality as constructs in the realm of space which humanity 
constructs as a form of resistance against the tyranny of time. In light of 
this, it becomes clear why Gilgamesh is praised in the prologue to the 
poem, following his exploration of “the furthest reaches of the earth” for 
his role as “Restorer of holy places that the deluge had destroyed” (I: 45). 
Place (and architecture) as constitutive of human identity and as defenses 
against the temporality of the journey is what connects the Epic of Gilgamesh 
directly to the modern/postmodern debate about time and space as com- 
peting epistemological perspectives and categories of cultural understand- 
ing. From this vantage point, the Epic of Gilgamesh and Italo Calvino’s Le 
atta invisibih offer mutually illuminating perspectives or responses to the 
problem presented by “the end of the journey.” 


2. “Seek and learn to recognize who and what, in the midst of the in- 
ferno are not inferno, then make them endure, give them space” (Le 
citta invisibili) 


Le citta invisivwik appears at a crucial juncture in the history of the production 
of space, according to the authoritative analysis of that history by the geog- 
rapher David Harvey. Noted for his concept of space-time compression 
and its potentially transformative implications for the social order, Harvey’s 
work has been concerned, among other things, with how postmodernism 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 83 


emerged in response to renewed intensification of the pressures of space- 
time compression between the end of the 1960s and the beginning of the 
1970s:18 

For Harvey, the political and economic crises of the early 1970s were 
just the latest round in a series of adjustments in reaction to the emergence 
of the new geography of capitalist development which involved first and 
foremost “the conquest of space,” and which Harvey traces to the mid-19th 
century (but via Lefebvre back to the late middle ages and Renaissance).!° 
While social theory (as in Smith, Marx, Weber) has privileged time in its 
theorizations, the aesthetic has privileged space in elaborating its own re- 
sponse to pressures of space-time compression and of temporality by 
means of the “spatialization of time.” In terms of contemporary cultural 
practice, the best illustration of an institutional spatial resistance to the 
claims of history and temporality for Harvey is, tellingly, found in the field 
of architecture. But generally speaking, the spatial dimension of all aes- 
thetic objects, whether they be buildings, paintings or poems seeks not only 
to “to illuminate temporal reality so that (we) might feel more at home in it, 
but [...] to abolish time within time, if only for a time.”?° As Petrarch un- 
derstood long before Adorno or Bourdieu, writing itself as spatial practice 
“tears practice and discourse out of the flow of time.”2!. This fundamental 
theoretical point made by Bourdieu and Adorno for the modern period was 
well-understood by humanist culture. In fact, it was foundational for Pet- 
rarch, for whom writing was to be “a place of rest” (Familtares 1.1)? The 


18. Harvey, The Condition of Postmodernity, 284-307; see also Robert S. Dombrowski, “Italo 
Calvino’s Le aitta invisibili and Architecture,” in Properties of Writing: Ideological Discourse in Mo- 
dern Italian Fiction (Johns Hopkins UP, 2000): 170-184, for whom “The concept of a postmo- 
dern moment in contemporary cultural history came into being in the middle of the 1970s 
across various artistic fields and individual disciplines and paralleled a new cognitive onenta- 
tion in the human sciences” (171). One might want to explore the extent to which structu- 
ralism, with its notoriously ahistorical emphasis on genre and commonplaces itself represen- 


ted a “spatializing” response to the renewed pressures of space-time compression during the 
1970s. 


19. Harvey, “Between Time and Space,” pp. 425-427. See also Henri Lefebvre, The Production 
of Space, trans. Donald Nicholson-Smith (Oxford: Blackwell, 1991): 252-271. 


20. Harvey, “Between Time and Space,” citing Karsten Harries, “Building and the Terror of 
Time,” Perspecta: The Yale Architectural Journal 19 (1982): 59-69. 


21. Harvey, “Between Time and Space,” citing P. Bourdieu, Outhne of a Theory of Practice 
(Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1977), 156. 


22. Theodor Adorno, Minima moralia, 33: “For a man who no longer has a homeland, writing 
becomes a place to live”; cf. Petrarch: “Interea iter inceptum sequar, non prius vie quam 
lucis exitum operiens; et quietis michi loco fuerit dulcis labor ” (Familiares 1.1). 


84 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


Epic of Gilgamesh, as we’ve seen, promotes the virtues of space, in particular, 
of architecture and words written on stone tablets as “spatializing” re- 
sponses to the inevitability of the end of the journey. We should not be 
surprised if an artist of Calvino’s cosmopolitan character and spatial preoc- 
cupations should have responded precociously by aesthetic means to the 
pressures of this particular aspect of the “post-modern condition.” Indeed, 
Le atta inusibik has a kind of prophetic aura or resonance when we read it 
now. At the beginning of the new millennium, from the perspective of an 
internet-connected culture immersed in the economic and cultural phe- 
nomena of globalization, Le atid invisibik presents an aesthetic response to 
the experience of space-time compression, whose specifically spatial aspect 
we are perhaps better positioned to appreciate in the light of our reading of 
the Epic of Gilgamesh. 

The spatially overdetermined character of Calvino’s book represents 
the response of literary aesthetics to space-time compression. As Gianni 
Celati observed in a review written at the time of the work’s publication: 
“The book is [...] more a spatial than a temporal metaphor; it is not a book 
about memories evoked by traces of writing but a book about the spatiality 
of the traces. To reduce time into the space of memory is to deny that his- 
tory or stories have some analogy with the dimension of the ego which is 
temporal, which is memory. Therefore accept the pure exteriority of the 
book as object.”?3 This distinctively spatial aspect of the book, at both the 
levels of form and content accounts for its enthusiastic reception by archi- 
tects and urban planners, the most recent expression of which, thirty years 
after the publication of the work, was the exhibition which the “Triennale 
di Milano” dedicated to it, which was mounted by architects, urban plan- 
ners and conceptual artists of various disciplines.24 Literary critical recep- 
tion of the work has been no less attentive to the spatial dimensions of the 
artifact, from the earliest reviews, including an influential essay by P. V. 
Mengaldo who described the formal structure of the work as “seven sestina 
stanzas enclosed by two double sestina stanzas,”25 to more recent contribu- 
tions like Robert Dombroski’s important chapter “Le atta invisibikh and Ar- 


23. “Il libro € dunque una metafora spaziale (vedi alla fine l’atlante) prima che temporale ; 
non libro sulle memorie evocate dalle tracce della scrittura, ma sulla spaziatura delle tracce. 
Ridurre il tempo a spazio della memona é negare che la storia o le storie abbiano qualche 
analogia con la dimensione dell’io, che é temporale, che é la memoria. Quindi accettare la 
pura esteriorita del libro come oggetto” (Gianni Celati, “Recensione inedita,” in La vistone 
dell’invisibile 108). 

24. 5 November 2002 — 9 March 2003: See http: /www.triennale.it/triennale/site_html/ 
INVISIBILI/index.html. 


25. P. V. Mengaldo, “L’arco e le pietre (Calvino e Le citta invisibili),” in La tradizione del Nove- 
cento (Milano: Feltrinelli, 1975): 410. 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 85 


chitecture.”26 In the most searching analysis of the architectural structure of 
the work to date, however, Carlo Ossola has revealed a latent structure de- 
signed to draw the reader toward the interior of the work and to its center, 
that is, to the “fulcro di ogni simmetria e di ogni specularita, al centro esatto 
del racconto (28° infatti tra le citta descritte) e della matrice geometrica che 
inscrive le ‘citta invisibili,’ Bauci, citta eponima di ogni ‘citta invisibile’ [...] se 
appunto ‘Dopo aver marciato sette giorni attraverso boscaglie, chi va a 
Bauci non riesce a vederla ed é arrivato.’2’ 

As Ossola has noted, at the center of Ovid’s Metamorphoses (8: 611-424), 
just as Baucis is at the center of Le citta invisibik, one reads of Philemon and 
Baucis. The couple provide hospitality in their humble abode to the dis- 
guised gods Jupiter and Mercury who had been refused shelter by the other 
inhabitants of the valley. The gods remove Philemon and Baucis to a 
mountaintop from which they witness an apocalyptic flood that the gods 
bring down upon the valley, sparing only the pious couple and their cottage 
that is transformed afterward into a temple. Philemon and Baucis serve 
thereafter as custodians of that temple, until their deaths, when they are 
transformed into an oak and a lime tree. The spatial and architectural motif 
of the myth, in particular, the humble cottage of Baucis and Philemon 
transformed into a sacred temple, clearly appealed to Calvino who sought 
to recognize and “give space” to what was not inferno. Yet, the intertex- 
tual resonance of Baucis for Calvino is not exhausted by its Ovidian source. 

The tale, which was depicted by such artists as Rembrandt (“Philemon 
and Baucis”) and Peter Paul Rubens (“Stormy Landscape with Philemon 
and Baucis”) was taken up and revised by Goethe in Part II, Act V of Faust, 
a passage which provides a vital intertext for the interpretation of Calvino’s 
Baucis, especially for the implications of Goethe’s rewriting of Ovid as a 
cautionary tale about modern urban planning. In fact, Faust transforms by 
means of a dyke, symbolizing economic activity, technological progress and 
the subjugation of nature, a section of coastline into a garden “like an 
Eden.” To achieve his plan, however, Faust must drive out the established 
population, including Baucis and Philemon, who resist his land reclamation 
project: 


Baucis. Godless is he, he would savor 
This our grove and cabin here; 
Now the newly strutting neighbor 


26. Roberts S$. Dombroski, Properties of Writing: Ideological Discourse in Modern Itakan Fiction 
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins U P, 2000): 171-183. 


27. Carlo Ossola, “L’invisibile e il suo ‘dove’: ‘geografia interiore’ di Italo Calvino,” Leftere 
italiane 39, 2 (1987): 247. 


86 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


As his subjects we should fear. 
Philemon. Yet he pledged, you have forgotten, 
Homestead fair on new won land! 
Baucis. Do not trust the ocean bottom, 
Steadfast on your hill-brow stand! 
Philemon. To the chapel let us wander, 
Greet the parting sun once more; 
Ring and kneel in worship yonder, 
Trusting God as heretofore. (vv. 11131-11142)?8 


The pious, elderly couple continue serving God faithfully and ringing the 
bell of the chapel for which they are responsible. Their idyllic lives repre- 
sent an affront and their home a site of resistance to Faust’s titanic ambi- 
tion to transform and to rule the world. The bell undermines Faust’s sense 
of power and he desires to remove Philemon and Baucis: 


Faust. ....That aged couple must surrender, 

I want their linden for my throne, 

The unowned timber-margin slender 

Despoils for me the world I own.... (vv. 11239-11242) 


Ultimately, Mephistopheles and his henchmen kill the old couple as a result 
of Faust’s project: 


Lynceus (the keeper of the watchtower of the palace). 
....Woe! The inner hut’s afire 
That was moist and mossy green 
Instant rescue would require. 
Yet no help is to be seen. 
Ah, the poor old pair that tended 
Else so watchfully their fire, 
Must their age in smoke be ended, 
Snuffed in conflagration dire! (vv. 11312-11319) 


Philemon and Baucis die as a sacrifice to the earthly desire of a man sup- 
ported by a pact with the devil. This particular episode of Goethe’s poem 
has been read as an allegory of the negative consequences of human pro- 
gress entailed in curbing nature by constructing an artificial world of cities, 
industries, transport, and intensified agriculture, symbolized in Faust by 
land reclamation and the expropriation of Philemon and Baucis, and has 
even been interpreted as a “founding classic of environmental health sci- 


28. Johann Wolfgang Van Goethe, Faust: A Tragedy, A Norton Critical Edition, trans. W. Arn- 
dt; Ed. C. Hamlin (New York: Norton, 1976): 282-83. 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 87 


ences.”2° Placing Baucis at the center of Le atid invisiik represents Cal- 
vino’s own architectural form of spatial resistance to the pressures of mod- 
ernity, taking the form of an intertextual homage to the Philemon and Bau- 
cis of Ovid and Goethe who offered hospitality to the gods in their 
home/temple and resisted the encroachments of urban planning. 

Another reader sensitive to the relevance of Baucis for the contempo- 
rary cultural debate was C. G. Jung, who, in his autobiography, tells of 
dreaming of Philemon without his companion Baucis.*° It is likely, accord- 
ing to Muramoto,*! that Jung dreamt of Philemon alone as the continuation 
of the story after the death of Baucis. According to Muramoto, the decisive 
insight that Philemon imparted to Jung was that after Philemon and Baucis, 
whose earthly home was destroyed by Faust, there is no space for the re- 
ception of the gods but in his [Jung’s] soul. This figure of Philemon was 
clearly involved in Jung’s mind with the figure of Faust. In another passage 
of his autobiography Jung criticized the conclusive solution of Goethe’s 
poem: 


In the days when I first read Faust I could not remotely guess the ex- 
tent to which Goethe’s strange heroic myth was a collective experience 
and that it prophetically anticipated the fate of the Germans. Therefore I 
felt personally implicated, and when Faust, in his hubris and self-inflation, 
caused the murder of Philemon and Baucis I felt guilty, quite as if I myself 
in the past had helped commit the murder of the two old people. This 
strange idea alarmed me and I regarded it as my responsibility to atone for 
this crime, or to prevent its repetition. (Memories, Dreams, Reflections 234) 


The figure with whom Jung identified himself was not Faust but Philemon 
since he hoped to be hospitable to the gods in his work in contrast to a 
Faustian injustice and neglect of gods, just as, according to Ovid, Philemon 
with his wife received and entertained the gods. Jung’s work will indeed 
consist in the continuation of Philemon and Baucis’ holy mission and the 
atonement of Faust’s sin. This explains why, according to Muramoto, Jung 
had the following inscription carved in the stone of the entrance to the 
tower of Bollingen, the small village in Switzerland where he had a rural 
retreat: 


Philemonis sacrum 


29. Hans C. Binswanger and Kirk R. Smith, “Paracelsus and Goethe: Founding Fathers of 
Environmental Health,” Bulletin of the World Health Organization 78, 9 (2000): 1162. 


30. C. G. Jung, Memories, Dreams, Reflections. Ed. Aniela Jaffé. Trans. R. and C. Winston 
(New York: Vintage, 1965): 182ff. 


31. Shoji Muramoto, “Philemon,” in Jung and Goethe (Kyoto: Jinbuasholn, 1992), ch. 8. 


88 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


Fausti poenitentia 
[Shrine of Philemon 
Atonement for Faust] 


Jung’s desire to recover a reverence for the gods was tantamount to rever- 
ence for the “place” of Philemon in the face of the onslaught of modernity. 
Jung explicitly interpreted Nazism in relation to the myth, in a 1933 letter 
which is cited by Muramoto to Dr. Jul. Paul Schmidt (1900-1953). There 
he described himself as “the advocate and avenger of Philemon and Baucis 
[...] hosts of the gods in a godforsaken age.” 

Whether or not Calvino knew directly the Jungian legacy of the Phile- 
mon and Baucis story, Jung’s illuminating re-evocation of the myth sheds 
important light on Calvino’s placement of the myth at the spatial center of 
Le citta inusilih. Like Jung, Calvino was engaged in attempting to recover, in 
the shadow of the apocalypse, and in the midst of the inferno of modernity 
a place other than the inferno, and sought to protect it and make it grow. 
Jung’s Philemon lost his wife when Faust burned his house, and therefore 
Jung could only recover the gods in an inner space, “in the soul.” Calvino’s 
Baucis, on the other hand, is widowed of her Philemon and, by extension of 
Jungian gods. While Jung’s resistance to modernity takes the form of re- 
covering gods from the sky, Calvino, the secular humanist, will focus on the 
terrestrial world and on recovering a place that is not infernal in the earthly 
tealm. The place of Philemon in the soul for Jung corresponds in Calvino 
to a literary territory that must be carved out and protected. 

In the history of the establishment of territory or place we have already 
noted, throughout travel literature and anthropology, that the figure of 
woman, in this case the wife of the pious couple Baucis, has a special, in- 
corporative role to play. Accordingly, the figure of woman has a vital func- 
tion in Calvino’s invention of the “invisible cities.” In fact, the names of all 
the cities of the book “vantano una stupenda ed esotica onomastica fem- 
minile, da Zobeide a Sofronia, da Aglaura a Zemrude, da Eusapia a Perin- 
zia, nomi-numina che seducono il viandante e l’amante, allettando 1 piedi 
erranti nelle tortuosita del loro corpo urbanistico cosi come le mani erranti 
dell’innamorato di John Donne esplorano l’universo anatomico della nuova 
terra posseduta (‘Oh my America, my new found land)” 32 


32. Guido Almansi, “Le citta illeggibili, ” in La vistone dell’invisibile 124. According to Bruno 
Falcetto, in Calvino’s 1960 treatment for the cinema of Marco Polo’s Milne, “[...] il suo é 
spesso un viaggio fra le donne : dalle figure femminili centrali che sono termine di confronto 
esistenziale per il protagonista, alle donne comparsa, oggetto di fascinazione estetica, di 
desiderio sensuale. E qui Calvino, mi pare, sottolineando la centralita femminile nel Mikone, 
tende a proiettare sul modello la propria inchinazione a vedere nei rapporti con la donna un 
momento decisivo dei rapporti con il mondo, una figura della relazione con la realta” (“Le 
cose e le ombre. ‘Marco Polo’: Calvino scrittore per il cinema,” in La vistone dell’invisibile 68). 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 89 


Yet, Calvino’s Baucis appears to present an emblem of aesthetic fasci- 
nation rather than of sensual desire. The city is suspended above the 
clouds, lifted up by slender stilts, and one reaches there by climbing ladders. 
The inhabitants rarely descend to earth as they have everything they need in 
the city which does not come into contact with the ground except for the 
long flamingo legs upon which it rests and, on sunny days, “a pierced angu- 


lar shadow that falls on the foliage”: 


Tre ipotesi si danno sugli abitanti di Bauci: che odino la Terra; che la ris- 
pettino al punto di evitare ogni contatto; che la amino com’era prima di 
loro e con cannocchiali e telescopi puntati in giu non si stanchino di pas- 
sarla in rassegna, foglia a foglia, sasso a sasso, formica per formica, con- 
templando affascinati la propria assenza. (83) 


Appropriately enough, at the center of Le atta invisibik, having reaffirmed 
the aesthetic as a site of resistance against infernal aspects of modernity 
through the allusion to Ovid’s Philemon and Baucis (and setting off inter- 
textual reverberations to Goethe and Jung), Calvino proceeds to provide in 
Baucis an allegorical self-portrait of the artist in his characterization of the 
inhabitants of the city. They, in fact, recall the attitude of the artist Calvino 
in several respects. In the first place, the doubt about whether the inhabi- 
tants of Baucis avoid contact with the earth because they either hate it or 
love it too much captures the ambivalence of Calvino’s artistic attitude to- 
ward the world which Cesare Cases described in terms of a Nietzschean 
“pathos della distanza.”33 That is, the longing for integration underlying 
Calvino’s distance and detachment from the worlds treated in his fictions 
constitutes a fundamental tension of his art. According to Cases, for exam- 
ple, in Barone rampante, Calvino found a solution to his dilemma by locating 
his hero in the trees, so that from a distance he could have a relationship 
with men and be of some use to them without being too close, and there- 
fore vulnerable to them. Here the inhabitants of Baucis are even further 
removed from the earth, and the object of their loving gaze is devoid of 
people. The earth itself has become an object of contemplation, as unen- 
cumbered place. It is striking that the author’s signature is present in Baucis 
where the landscape is devoid of people, and that at the center of Le citta 
innisilil Calvino’s “invisibile city” par excellence, Baucis, should contain also 
a statement of poetics privileging place, that is, the “Terra” (Earth) as the 
home of man and object of the artist’s loving contemplation. What is par- 
ticularly significant is that the inhabitants of Baucis contemplate their own 
absence, that is to say, the earth appears ultimately other to man’s temporal- 


33. Cesare Cases, “Calvino e il ‘pathos’ della distanza,” in Patrie /ettere (Torino: Einaudi, 
1987): 160-166. 


90 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


ity. To contemplate the earth from such a distance, leaf by leaf, stone by 
stone, ant by ant, fascinated by one’s own absence is to express an aspira- 
tion (“pathos della distanza”) to transcend the dimension of the ego which 
is temporal through the contemplation of place (in fact, they love it as it 
was before them), beyond architecture, in the place and landscape of the 
Earth, whose meticulous descriptions have such a large part in Calvino’s 
literature, from “Il sentiero dei nidi di ragno” to Palomar 

In fact, alongside the Earth and the landscape of place, but beyond the 
temporal dimension of the ego, Calvino presents the pure exteriority of the 
book itself as object and as “spatialization of time,” that 1s, as a means to 
counteract the temporality of the journey no less than the temple of Baucis 
and Philemon or the journey of Gilgamesh written down on stone tablets. 
That is to say, it functions as a “place” where communication and commu- 
nity can be established that transcend the temporal and spatial borders of an 
individual ego in time and space. This accounts for the renewed impor- 
tance of travel literature (and literature as a form of travel) today, at the end 
of the journey, as a means of simultaneously enabling mobility and the 
constitution of home(s). 

Calvino had illustrated vividly this function of contemporary “travel lit- 
erature” in the very first of his “invisible cities,” in his description of the 
“special quality” of the city of Diomira: 


Ma la proprieta di questa é che chi vi arriva una sera di settembre, quando 
le giornate s’accorciano e le lampade multicolon s’accendono tutte 1n- 
sieme sulle porte delle friggitorie, e da una terrazzo una voce di donna 
grida: uh!, gli viene da invidiare quelli che ora pensano d’aver gia vissuto 
una sera uguale a questa e d’esser stati quella volta felice. (15) 


This first of the “invisible cities” is programmatic for the book as a 
whole for the way in which it foregrounds the text itself and its material 
presence or place as establishing a connection with the reader directly 
(“those who now believe they have lived an evening identical to this”) and 
thereby requiring the reader’s participation in the construction of the “spe- 
cial quality” of the city of Diomira. Yet again it is the figure of a woman, 
this time on a terrace “whose voice cries ooh!” that functions as both the 
object of desire and nostalgic longing, and which enables the incorporation 


34. The kind of meticulous contemplation and description of place is a characteristic of 
Calvino’s art and reaches a kind of apotheosis around the time he wrote Le atta invisbili in a 
non-fictional description of San Remo that appears in “Dall’opaco” which has been descri- 
bed as a “discourse with which the author’s hypothetical original/primitive ego describes the 
form of the world” (Claudia Nocentini, Italo Calvino and the Landscape of Childhood. Leeds: 
Northern UP, 2000: 84). 


THE END OF THE JOURNEY 91 


of the reader into the “territory” of the text. It is this form of literary mo- 
bility that marks the point of departure for renewed travel even at the end 
of the journey. Calvino’s postmodern travel writing mediates the commu- 
nication between those who travel and those who stay home, collapsing the 
gap between them through the space of the words on the page which like 
the woman mediatrix on the balcony bridge the temporal and spatial gap 
between writer and reader. The text and the place of the text serve as go- 
betweens and constitute a means of access to an alternative territory. Yet, 
this is no mere metaphorical journey according to the commonplace dis- 
tinction between real and metaphorical travel. The spatial aspect of litera- 
ture constitutes a real place and is potentially productive of real space in so 
far as it can instruct the reader how to identify “who and what in the midst 
of inferno are not inferno, then make them endure, give them space.” At 
the end of the journey in the material and physical realm of colonial travel 
inaugurated by Marco Polo, it is this other kind of journey and the produc- 
tion of that space, Calvino seems to suggest, that represents the point of 
departure for a new history of travel literature and of travel.* 


University of Notre Dame 
Works Cited 


Calvino, Italo. Le citta invisibik. Torino: Einaudi, 1972. 

The Epic of Gilgamesh, transl. and ed. by B. R. Foster. New York: Norton, 2001. 

La visione dellinuisibile, Saggi e materiak su “Le atta innsabih” di ItaloCalvino, ed. Mario 
Barenghi, Gianni Canova, Bruno Falcetto. Milano: Mondadon, 2002. 


Leed, Enic. The Mind of the Traveler: From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism. New Y otk: Ba- 
sic Books, 1991. 


Petrarca, Francesco. Canzoniere, ed. by Marco Santagata. Milano: Mondadon, 1996. 


Tigay, Jeffrey H. The Evolution of the Gilgamesh Epic. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania 
Plone. 


Todorov, Tzvetan. “The Journey and Its Narratives,” Transports: Travel, Pleasure, and 
Imaginative Geography, 1600-1830, ed. Chloe Chard and Helen Langdon. New 
Haven and London: Yale UP, 1996. 


* I would like to thank Piero Boitani, Vittorio Hésle, Luigi Monga, Colleen Ryan-Scheutz, 
Justin Steinberg and the participants in the graduate seminar on “Transatlantic Literature and 
History of Travel” at the University of Notre Dame (Spring 2003) for their helpful com- 
ments and criticism during the preparation of this essay. 





DARIA PEROCCO 





“Mettere” il viaggio “in carta”: narrazione 
odeporica tra realta, utopia e allegoria 


lo choc prodotto, in un periodo caratterizzato da sicurezze e dalla cer- 

tezza della superiorita della cultura umanistica, dalla notizia del rin- 
venimento di un mondo nuovo. Le conseguenze furono non solo di, ben 
comprensibile, meraviglia, ma soprattutto di frastornamento: in un universo 
sicuro, noto e conosciuto, si possono mettere in dubbio certezze assolute? 
E, dubbio ben piu spaventoso, se si accetta che si possa porre in discus- 
sione una certezza, possono di conseguenza anche tutte le altre essere 
incrinate da una qualche forma di dubbio? In che maniera agire, quindi, per 
far coincidere le sicurezze di una realta culturale, con una realta (uso ap- 
positamente lo stesso termine) fisica del tutto inaspettata? Se 1 testi sacri 
(fonti di assolute certezze) assicurano che gli apostoli hanno portato il 
Vangelo su tutta la terra, come puo fisicamente esistere un luogo in cul essi 
non siano arrivati? Come possono gli antichi, mi si permetta l’espressione 
manzoniana, “aver fallato”’? 

Molto, molto presto la perplessita lascia il posto all’orgoglio: 1 viaggi di 
scoperta furono “la maggior cosa dopo la Creatione del Mondo, eccetto la 
Incarnatione e morte del figliuolo de Iddio, che lo creo” (Lopez de Go- 
mara, “Dedica a Carlo V”, fol. Ilv). E velocemente fu creata una giu- 
stificazione alla cronologia del loro divenire. Le nuove terre furono sco- 
perte perché Ferdinando di Spagna, dopo aver preso Granata, “perché 1 
suoi armigeri robustissimi per troppo reposo non amarcessono” arma le tre 
caravelle con a capo Colombo per mostrare agli orientali quale forza aves- 
sero gli occidentali. 

Il vecchio mondo accetta quindi l’esistenza del nuovo; come si sa, pero, 
questa realta non fu ammessa subito: Colombo continua a lungo ad essere 
persuaso di essere arrivato in Oriente, tanto da affermare di sentire, nelle 
nuove terre, il canto degli usignoli, che nelle Americhe, al suo arrivo, non 
erano presenti, solo perché Marco Polo lo aveva a lungo descritto nel 
Mikone (Colombo 18). La necessita della conquista si propone di conse- 
guenza come necessaria, dato che neppure l’ipotesi di una omologazione o 


\ ee sR : : 
BE certo difficile, per un uomo del nostro tempo, riuscire ad immaginare 


Annali dTtalianistica 21(2003): Hodoeporics Revisited | Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


94 DARIA PEROCCO 


di un accostamento viene considerata possibile. Si parte infatti da un dato 
sicuro ed imprescindibile: la realta della cultura europea é totalmente supe- 
riore, o addirittura, meglio, essa é, in assoluto, Punica vera e reale: di qui la 
sicurezza che il nuovo non solo deve, ma anche vuole (nell’entusiasmo 
troppo spesso questo dato viene affermato) essere omologato con le norme 
di comportamento sociale, politico e, soprattutto, religioso dei conqui- 
statori. Significativa a proposito la meraviglia per il mancato entusiasmo, o 
addirittura lo stupore, perché gli indiani veri, portatori di altissima civilta, 
anche a stima degli europei, non si piegavano spontaneamente alla supe- 
riorita culturale cristiana, ma anzi guardavano a questa pretesa con interro- 
gativo denigrante stupore. Come ha osservato Todorov, 


si resta colpiti dal fatto che Colombo non trova — per caratterizzare gli 
indiani — aggettivi diversi dalla coppia buono/cattivo, che in realta non 
dice niente: non solo perché queste qualita dipendono da un determinato 
punto di vista, ma anche perché nspondono a stati momentanei e non a 
caratteristiche permanenti; non sono il frutto del desiderio di conoscere, 
ma dell’apprezzamento pragmatico di una situazione. (Todorov 44) 


Tutto cio premesso, coloro che arrivano nelle nuove terre sentono una 
necessita assoluta di descrivere tutte le cose inusuali e inaspettate in cui si 
imbattono, anche per dimostrare ai regnanti (o a coloro che li hanno 
finanziati) che hanno realmente incontrato realta del tutto diverse da quelle 
abituali e da quelle che si sarebbero aspettati di trovare. All’interno poi di 
questa necessita descrittiva possiamo incontrare delle fasi molto precise: le 
prime descrizioni di Colombo parlano di persone che si presentano, senza 
vergogna, in nudita; per il mondo occidentale, rivestito delle sue sicurezze, 
sono possibili solo due tipi di spiegazione, in fondo strettamente affini, che 
spiegano con una vicinanza al metafisico la mancanza di disagio in una 
condizione sentita dagli Europei come non naturale: o siamo vicino al 
Paradiso terrestre, dove solo dopo il peccato originale i primi uomini 
ebbero la percezione di essere nudi, oppure la nudita riflette la presenza del 
mondo descritto dai classici, cioé di un altro paradiso, quello degli dei 
olimpici. Il problema centrale, ovviamente del tutto teorico, ma che na- 
sconde la reale mancanza di spiegazioni del fenomeno é€ dunque come 
distinguere se i nativi rispecchino Puno o l’altro paradiso, quali caratte- 
ristiche specifiche (atte appunto ad identificare la provenienza dall’uno o 
dall’altro eden) presentino. In tempi estremamente rapidi, pero, nelle de- 
scrizioni dei conquistatoni, 11 problema della nudita passa in secondo piano e 
gli uomini trovati da Colombo si rivestono di penne, che diventano da quel 
momento fattore portante e caratterizzante della loro iconologia. Qualun- 
que altro elemento che individua gli abitanti delle terre nuove (longevita, 
antropofagia, amore libero) poteva essere ritrovato nelle descrizioni dei Li- 


METTERE IL VIAGGIO IN CARTA 95 


bri di Meraviglie medievali, primo fra tutti quello diffusissimo di John de 
Mandeville. Solo le penne sono caratteristiche uniche a questa parte della 
terra. 

Nel 1515 Diirer disegna un indiano d’America nei margini di un libro 
destinato all’imperatore Massimiliano. Ne fa una figura di fantasia, che so- 
miglia a un giovane tedesco con il naso camuso, coperto di piume come se 
fosse vestito in maschera:! ma la sua acconciatura ed il suo scettro sono stati 
disegnati direttamente dopo l’osservazione di oggetti reali, arrivati in Ger- 
mania nel periodo. Cinque anni pit tardi lo stesso Diirer descrive con am- 
mirazione tutta un’altra serie di abiti e oggetti provenienti dalle nuove terre: 
quasi tutte queste cose sono andate perdute, non tanto per la consunzione 
del tempo, ma perché sono state distrutte come indegne di essere conser- 
vate, cosi come gli oggetti in oro che venivano fusi per ricavarne il peso del 
metallo perché erano ritenuti prodotti “barbari.” Il caso di Tommaso dei 
Cavalieri che conserva nel suo “gabinetto delle meraviglie” una maschera di 
penne costituisce un’eccezione (Heikamp). Gli oggetti messicani e pre- 
colombiani arrivano infatti in Europa in pieno periodo del trionfo del classi- 
cismo, quando gli uomini del Rinascimento sentivano di essersi avvicinati 
alla perfezione dei classici anche perché avevano eliminato ogni traccia 
della barbarie gotica. Qualunque cosa venisse dall’America ed avesse la 
pretesa di essere ritenuta “bella,” all’altezza delle coeve produzioni europee, 
avrebbe dovuto rispettare determinati canoni: la conseguenza, forzata ed 
illogica solo agli occhi dei post-romantici, é che gli oggetti che arrivano dalle 
nuove terre sono considerati barbari, magari buffi ed ironicamente degni di 
attenzione comica (penso ad esempio ai balli a tema “americano,” anche se 
leggermente piu tardi). Nel mondo letterario “alto,” distaccato in fondo da 
una realta che se pur lo interessa, relativamente lo tocca in modo diretto, 
Vintellettuale europeo continua a percepire l’indiano d’America abbigliato 
di penne, (non si sa neppure perché), che vedremo comparire nel The Faerie 
Queene di Edmund Spenser, nel Paradise Lost di John Milton, mentre Francis 
Bacon si domandava la causa di quest’uso (citato da Gerbi, Disputa del nuovo 
mondo, 10) e in pieno ottocento ancora Alexandre von Humbolt affermava 
che l’immagine dell’uomo con le penne ci balza agli occhi automaticamente 
quando parliamo degli abitanti del nuovo mondo. 

Si cerca quindi immediatamente di adeguare l’America ad una 
concezione classicistica in tutte le manifestazioni che presenta, anche (e vor- 
rei dire soprattutto) nell’arte. Appare ovvio date queste premesse, che nel 
paragone le nuove terre usciranno perdenti: le manifestazioni artistiche sa- 


1. E Pimmagine dell’uomo ricoperto di penne, dell’uomo-uccello permane nell’immaginario 
(magari solo fiabesco) del mondo tedesco; basta pensare al mozartiano Papageno dello 


Zauberflote. 


96 DARIA PEROCCO 


ranno paragonabili appena al gotico piu tristo, gli elementi di assoluta novita 
vengono negati dato che i geografi cercano di spiegare che le nuove terre 
erano gia presenti in Tolomeo ed 1 botanici si sforzano di identificare le 
nuove piante con quelle descritte da Dioscoride o da Plinio. Le nuove terre 
verranno addirittura usate per conferma di dati gia asseriti: se una qualche 
realta descritta dagli antichi non appare o non é (piu?) recuperabile in Eu- 
ropa, sara facile ipotizzare una sua presenza in America. Se appunto “quod 
non est in libris non est in mundo,” altrettanto si deve lecitamente pensare 
che “quod est in libris est in mundo.” E mentre la realta del mondo classico 
a cui bisognava sempre rifarsi era fissa, immobile, statica, definitivamente 
“data” e consacrata, la realta americana cambiava continuamente perché 
dalle terre nuove continuavano a giungere novita, tanto che di queste sem- 
bravano addirittura fonte inesauribile. Quello che cambiava davvero non era 
la realta scoperta ma assolutamente diversi erano, con il passare del tempo e 
quindi col mutare delle descrizioni, gli occhi di chi incontrava questa realta: 
se all’inizio si ha la possibilita di vedere (e quindi di descrivere) solo quello 
che si vuole vedere, non occorre molto tempo perché lo sguardo di chi é 
mosso da interessi reali e non ideologici cominci ad analizzare le cose in 
funzione diversa: lo scopo esplica e funzionalizza la relazione scritta; se 
conosciamo in anticipo l’autore ed il fine della sua scrittura, possiamo gia 
dare per sicura la tipologia della narrazione. Siamo, in questo campo teorico, 
praticamente di fronte ad un’equazione matematica dove le conseguenze 
non sono lasciate a quell’arbitrio e alla sperimentazione del nuovo che 
dovrebbero essere caratteristiche fondamentali di queste descrizioni. 

Il massimo del paradosso, tirando alle estreme conseguenze di questa 
affermazione, si ha nell’affermazione di Edmundo O’Gorman (citata in 
Surdich 1991, 118), secondo cui gli europei non hanno scoperto ma 
inventato l’America: la frase che, se posta unicamente in questo modo, pud 
avere la forza dirompente di una boutade (e quindi non presentare con- 
seguenze), dimostra invece nel suo piu intimo nucleo una essenza di verita, 
di cui é illogico meravigliarsi: gli europei arrivano, con una coscienza della 
loro superiorita culturale e religiosa che non conosce dubbi, in luoghi in cui 
predomina una specie di nascosta paura per la propria realta, un tarlo che 
mina le certezze. L’America non é stata scoperta, é stata “inventata” dagli 
europei del Cinquecento in base alle loro esigenze e aspirazioni: era per loro 
importante ritrovare cose conosciute, oggetti certi di cui potersi fidare, dai 
quali non solo non ci si dovesse guardare, ma che costituissero base certa 
per ulteriori conoscenze (Gerbi 1975, 82-83). Colombo per primo, gia nel 
giornale di bordo del primo viaggio continua a descrivere paragonando le 
terre nuove alla Castiglia (Surdich 2002, 116): ovvio che in questo tentativo 
di rassicurazione la comparazione possa diventare quasi ossessiva, ed alla 
fine si vede del secondo termine di paragone solo ciO che riflette la realta 


METTERE IL VIAGGIO IN CARTA 97 


del primo. E cosi per circa cento anni (non un giorno, cento anni) non 
avremo, se non con estrema difficolta descrizioni grafiche, illustrative, delle 
realta e delle abitudini dei nuovi paesi. Vengono, in tempi estremamente 
brevi, montate (mi piacerebbe usare il verbo create) carte geografiche, non 
portolani, ovviamente necessari alla navigazione, ma vere e proprie carte 
destinate ad uso privato (Navigare e descrivere, passim) sempre riempite, con 
quella specie di horror vacui che ancora pervade coloro che relazionano sul 
nuovo mondo, con lo stesso tipo di piccole immagini che servivano a non 
lasciare spazi bianchi anche nelle regioni che, se pur note e conosciute, si 
ptesentavano come fondamentalmente prive di attrattive degne di essere 
descritte, come, ad esempio, le terre dell’estremo nord (come si fa a dise- 
gnare con immagini, a descrivere una landa o una steppa, grandi spazi privi 
di citta che da sole bastano a caratterizzare un paese?) Costituisce, a pro- 
posito, uno splendido esempio l’opera di un eccellente cartografo come 
Battista Agnese che inserisce lo stesso tipo di figura rappresentante un re in 
trono per riempire spazi vuoti (e per lui altrimenti incolmabili) nelle carte 
della Norvegia e della Finlandia e in quella della parte interna dell’America 
(Agnesi). La sua sicurezza di cartografo si manifesta quindi anche nell’im- 
maginare e raffigurare personaggi che solo ai nostri occhi di moderni si pos- 
sono definire mitici: in effetti, per un uomo del Cinquecento che differenza 
sostanziale poteva essere trovata tra un “Re degli elfi” nordico ed un “El 
Dorado”, di cui aveva notizie ugualmente favolose e mitiche? Forse solo la 
consapevolezza che, per cercare di localizzare e trovare il secondo 1 suoi 
contemporanei sono convinti valga la pena di promuovere spedizioni anche 
costosissime che risulteranno infruttuose, mentre le terre del nord Europa, 
non promettendo ricchezze favolose, possono essere lasciate ai sogni ed al 
gelo che le caratterizzano. 

Non credo si possa pensare sia frutto unicamente del caso il ritardo con 
cui il mondo nuovo viene illustrato con immagini. Al di la della raf- 
figurazione, di estremo interesse documentario, ma in realta frutto di scarsi 
elementi reali (poco piu che di fantasia) che ci é rimasta nel quadro —in- 
dicato in vari modi, ma talvolta genericamente intitolato La congquista delle In- 
die Occidentak — di Jan Mostaert (di proprieta privata ma in custodia al Frans 
Hals Museum di Haarlem) dipinto nel 1542, dobbiamo, per trovare delle ri- 
produzioni di elementi reali, delle entita portate in Europa esattamente dise- 
gnate e riprodotte arrivare forse fino al 1598 quando, nella seconda edizione 
Degh abiti antichi e moderni delle diverse parti del mondo, Cesate Vecellio presenta 
venti incisioni (il libro XII) riproducenti il vestiario usato presso peruviani, 
messicani e soprattutto abitanti della Florida e della Virginia. Forse a not let- 
terati interessano di pid i commenti nei quali il Vecellio forniva in- 
formazioni sulla vita e sulle usanze delle popolazioni americane, anche se 
certo di ben maggiore interesse sono le relazioni quasi coeve di Francesco 


98 DARIA PEROCCO 


Carletti, viaggiatore “per motivi di mercanzia” reale e disincantato (Carletti 
204). In quegli stessi anni Vecellio doveva anche ornare con miniature 
raffiguranti i paesaggi americani e figure di indigeni del nuovo mondo, 
volumi della biblioteca dei conti Piloni di Casteldardo, per assecondare 
linteresse per l’esotismo americano, che diffusamente si va sviluppando e la 
cui manifestazione pil appariscente ed effimera é€ la comparsa del tema 
nelle feste mascherate. Un esotismo di tipo tale da poter far, in qualche mo- 
do, avvicinare questa tensione “americana” alla passione per le cineserie che 
sara cosi dominante nel settecento. L’anno successivo all’edizione del Vecel- 
lio possiamo trovare nel libro XI dell’Ornitologia dell’Aldrovandi la spiega- 
zione di come gli Indiani d’America usino le penne di uccello per vestirsi 
(illustrazioni a pp. 658-659). Risalta immediatamente la differenza con i testi 
scritti, prodotti essenzialmente per dare notizia ed informare sulle novita dei 
viagei, scritti che si moltiplicano dal loro apparire in un numero veramente 
notevole: basti ad esempio pensare al primo caso di vera descrizione delle 
nuove terre fatto da Amerigo Vespucci nella Lettera al Soderini, che con- 
fluisce nell’opuscolo Mundus Nowus e fa riferimento alla navigazione compiu- 
ta tra il 1501 e il 1502 lungo le coste sudamericane fino a 50° di latitudine 
sud: Vespucci afferma che il Mondo nuovo é un continente e la sua scrit- 
tura risulta un misto di relazione di viaggio, trattazione scientifica, con con- 
cessioni all’avventuroso e al novellistico. E quindi da notare da una parte la 
comunicazione immediata e realistica delle realta scoperte, dall’altra il tenta- 
tivo dei dotti di adeguare queste nuove realta alle conoscenze precedent ed 
ai testi degli antichi, dalla terza la riproduzione in immagini delle novita pro- 
venienti dal nuovo mondo: le differenze cronologighe di queste tre prese di 
coscienza si snodano nell’arco di quasi un secolo. Osservando questa ma- 
croscopica differenza, potrebbe sorgere il dubbio se la produzione cosi nu- 
merosa di relazioni in prosa sia stata in realta motivata, nella sua mag- 
gioranza, dall’obbligo conseguente per chi era inviato in una qualche ma- 
niera ufficiale dallo stato. In altre parole: le relazioni scritte alla fine di am- 
bascerie, missioni diplomatiche ecc. erano molto spesso obbligatorie, non 
solo nel caso di terre nuove, ma sempre: tante relazioni immediate sulle sco- 
perte possono essere giustificate dall’obbligo di relazionare imposto dal 
potere, che veniva ottemperato con soddisfazione (nel caso delle nuove ter- 
re, contrariamente a quanto avveniva d’abitudine) proprio perché foriero di 
novita. Si puo pensare, ad esempio di conferma, agli ambasciatori veneti che 
appena ritornati dalla loro missione andavano a fare una relazione orale in 
senato, relazione che, a beneficio soprattutto dei successori, avrebbe dovuto 
essere “messa in carta” entro brevissimo tempo. Si sa anche, pero, che non 
tutti gli uomini pubblici veneziani amavano particolarmente scrivere e 
quindi facevano passare del tempo tra la relazione orale e quella scritta (di 
qui le “ramanzine” anche in forma ufficiale da parte del senato che ci sono 


METTERE IL VIAGGIO IN CARTA 99 


state tramandate). Di conseguenza, lobbligo di fare una _ relazione 
produceva quello che é stato definito “un sistema di scrittura a eco” in cui il 
furto (dalla relazione precedente) rappresenta la regola (ma ricordiamo che 
nella scrittura non solo non c’era proprieta privata ma l’imitazione dei mo- 
delli costituiva un merito) e molte relazioni si somigliavano. II] piacere di 
dare una attestazione diversa si fa sentire invece anche nelle relazioni uf- 
ficiali, dove tutto cid che viene narrato (e cioé la realta), nella prima fase del- 
la scoperta, sembra superare ogni immaginazione. Quando invece non sia- 
mo di fronte ad un’operazione comunque in qualche modo coatta, ma a de- 
scrizioni ricercate e volute dai loro autori, la consapevolezza di trovarsi di 
fronte ad una realta ambientale con dei confini ben precisi, pur se assai di- 
versa da quella europea riesce a farsi strada e a produrre descrizioni piu pre- 
cise e puntuali. La testimonianza piu importante di questo fenomeno é la 
Historia general y natural de las Indias scritta da Oviedo che procede, come 
dice Gerbi, per approssimazioni successive, con continui, sempre pit fitti 
paragoni; costantemente confrontando, infatti, l’autore si inoltra dal cognito 
all’incognito, dal familiare al sorprendente. 

AlPinizio dell’Ottocento, ha fatto notare Surdich, si percepiva la diversita 
dei diversi testi che parlano del nuovo mondo e loriginalita della loro scrit- 
tura, in funzione dei diversi destinatari: “Le notizie delle grandi scoperte 
furono registrate originariamente sia nella corrispondenza delle case ban- 
carie di Venezia, di Genova e di Pisa, sia nei dispacci dei diplomatici italiani 
accreditati presso le corti del Portogallo e della Spagna. Pid tardi com- 
parvero in lettere stampate o in libretti composti da un piccolo numero di 
pagine, e la cui conoscenza non avrebbe potuto arrivare fino a noi, se questi 
piccoli scritti non fossero stati ripresi in raccolte pit voluminose. ”? Prove 
ne sono le primissime attestazioni, come 1 Dian del Priuli, a Venezia o il 
Discorso di Pietro Pasqualigo del 3 agosto 1497. 

Le prime relazioni, come sappiamo ricche di quegli elementi fantastici 
che servivano a confermare l’arrivo in oriente, si staccano con difficolta dal- 
Pattestazione della presenza di elementi mitici. Del resto i viaggiatori- 
estensori dei testi erano anche lettori di romanzi cavallereschi e d’avventura 
pronti ad incontrare non solo i miti che il medioevo aveva loro tramandato, 
ma anche quello che avevano letto nelle pagine narrative: 


La letteratura utopistica, il romanzo d’avventura, la fiaba, la novella, il 
poema cavalleresco, i racconti di tendenza morale e filosofica si svolgono 


2. A. von Humboldt, Examen critique de l'histoire et de la géographie du nouveau continent et des progrés 
de l’astronomie nautique aux XV* et XVI: siédes (Paris, 1936), citato in Surdich 2002, 62. 


3. Del resto i miti antichi erano passati con facilita nelle “gestae” della letteratura 
contemporanea: si vedano, ad esempio le Amazzoni, ben presenti nell’Or/ando furtoso (19: 71- 
72). 


100 DARIA PEROCCO 


di preferenza in una natura fantastica insulare, in cui reali esperienze 
marittime e visioni poetiche si raccolgono nell’intento di proiettare in 
questi mondi circoscnitt' cid che trascende le possibilita umane o che ne 


raffigura le piu ardite ispirazioni. (Olschki 40-41) 


I] luogo dell’ immaginario fantastico, delle leggende medievali e dei rac- 
conti dei romanzi di cavalleria, con 1 suoi combattimenti con le amazzoni, i 
giganti e gli animali immaginari, viene trasferito nelle terre nuove. I] terri- 
torio, immenso, vergine e poco popolato si prestava ad essere ricettacolo 
reale e fantastico di tutte le fantasie di viaggiatori non particolarmente colti 
ma sicuri delle loro conoscenze. Colombo per primo continua ad asserire la 
sua assoluta vicinanza al Paradiso terrestre, garantita dalla presenza di un 
enorme fiume di acqua dolce che entra nel mare.‘ I] sogno basato su una 
geografia mitica ebbe sui viaggiatori nel nuovo mondo un’influenza almeno 
pari a quella della geografia reale. Ed infatti le attestazioni in proposito sono 
numerose, soprattutto di fonte spagnola e portoghese. E a ben pensarci la 
maestosita della foresta, la dolcezza del clima, l’abbondanza dei frutti e della 
selvaggina, la docilita dei nativi poteva dar adito alla supposizione che si era 
finalmente arrivati alla ricompensa che gli Europei aspettavano per essere 
depositari della vera religione e della vera cultura: 


vi € Pidea che il Nuovo Mondo sia come un immenso scrigno ricolmo di 
preziose novita e strabilianti meraviglie, pronte a riversarsi sui paesi 
europei, idea che tutto cid che é stato creato e a lungo celato al di la 
dell’Oceano Atlantico, possa alla fine nentrare in possesso degli abitanti 
del Vecchio Mondo apportando loro, in tutti i campi, enormi e 


insospettati vantagei. (Olmi 212) 


A conferma della verita della sua supposizione Colombo attesta che in quel- 
le isole, presso quel fiume misterioso non esiste la vecchiaia e gli abitanti del 
luogo hanno tutti al massimo I’eta perfetta, i 33 anni di Cristo quando mori 
e risorse e di Adamo quando venne creato. Quando poi vengono trovate 
persone di eta avanzata, ad esse sono attribuite anzianita mitiche, ad 
attestare l’estrema longevita procurata dalla vita beata del luogo. 

Cid che é piu importante osservare é che erano i viaggiatori reali, che si re- 
carono in quei luoghi per primi, coloro che essenzialmente volevano cre- 
dere a questi fantastici sogni. I letterati di buona cultura, gli studiosi e gli 
storici del periodo rimasti in Europa restarono scettici di fronte alle 
affermazioni di ritrovamento di elementi fantastici, non riconoscendo tanto 


4. Siamo alla foce dell’Orinoco. Oltre al fatto che Pacqua dolce permane a lungo nel mare, 
Colombo si autoconvince per la incredibile bellezza del paesaggio di essere nell’assoluta 
prossimita del Paradiso terrestre. 


METTERE IL VIAGGIO IN CARTA 101 


potere alla natura: e fra questi dobbiamo ricordare personaggi come Ramu- 
sio o Pietro Martire, del resto entusiasti descrittori delle nuove scoperte. 
Quando Ramusio parla della ricerca della fonte della giovinezza dichiara 
apertamente: 


Il che fu gran burla a dirlo gl’Indiani, e maggiore errore a crederlo 1 nostn 
e a spendere il tempo in cercarne. Ma egli [scil. Ponce de Leon] in questo 
viaggio discoperse ed ebbe notizia di terra ferma, e la vidde, e pose nome 
la Fiorita a quella parte che esce come una manica in mate, per spazio di 


cento leghe in lungo e ben cinquanta in lato. (Ramusio 5: 762-763) 


Come si puo notare l’autore sottolinea l’assurdita della ricerca di _ele- 
menti che non seguano il naturale corso della natura e quindi frutto solo di 
astrazioni, mentre si affretta a testimoniare la realta di un’ulteriore nuova 
terra scoperta (la Florida) di cui cerca di dare dal punto di vista geografico 
tutte le notizie in suo possesso (€ un penisola, ha una data lunghezza ed una 
data larghezza). Un fenomeno simile si puo riscontrare quando si ricorda un 
altro mito ben duro a morire, quello delle Amazzoni, che furono localizzate 
non solo nell’America meridionale da Gonzalo Pizzarro (€ forse superfluo 
ricordare che da loro prendono nome la foresta ed il rio omonimi), ma 
anche in Messico o in California da Cortés (Ramusio 6: 268), oltre che, na- 
turalmente, da Colombo nella primissima isola abitata solo da donne che 
egli aveva chiamato Matiniana. Oviedo e Ramusio non si lasciano per- 
suadere con facilita, pur se nutriti di quella letteratura classica, latina e greca, 
che le Amazzoni aveva presentato ed incontrato piu volte. Ma, da ottimi 
studiosi del loro tempo, oltre che dell’antichita, con ogni probabilita ca- 
pivano il bisogno, che gia si era presentato nel mondo antico, di vedere 
proposto quel “mondo alla rovescia” che una repubblica dominata dalla for- 
za femminile avrebbe rappresentato, senza, pero, cadere nel tranello che 
Paffermazione della loro verita storica avrebbe rappresentato. Del resto il 
desiderio di trovare quello che si desidera e che mai in realta non é esistito 
raggiunge il massimo della follia umana nella ricerca dell’Eldorado: 


Da un rito barbaro e sudicio sorgeva la piu strepitosa delle leggende. Quel 
cacicco nudo e abbagliante diventava un simbolo nassuntivo delle 
ricchezze sognate e bramate, l’eroe eponimo d’un paese ancora da 
scoprire. L'uomo coperto d’oro sidentificava colla terra sconosciuta. 
Quasi fosse stato conscio della sua “missione storica,” lasciava la sua 
individualita corporea, e si faceva elusivo e tentatore. Appariva e spariva al 
margine delle regioni colonizzate, per sedurre gli incauti verso le zone piu 
impervie. Perduta la sua primitiva identita, impersonava il fascino del 
mondo nuovo, la perdizione possibile, linevitabile splendore dell’Ignoto. 
(Gerbi 1988, 51) 


102 DARIA PEROCCO 


In maniera diversa a seconda del destinatario, risulta evidente, pero, 
che i miti collaborano comunque a far recepire le Americhe come terre dalle 
inusitate stranezze, delle novita assolute, alcune delle quali in realta basate 
su elementi o dati effettivi. I casi piu significativi sono quelli delle piante o 
degli animali totalmente nuovi e sconosciuti che, nei racconti anche piu 
marcati di verosimiglianza, assumono sempre e comunque elementi mitici: 
Francesco Carletti, mercante certo disincantato, arriva ad affermare, par- 
lando della potenza nutritiva della nuovissima e sconosciuta pianta del 
cacao, che una sola tazza di cioccolato é sufficiente a fornire nutrimento ad 
una persona per un’intera giornata. 

Se quindi, narrativamente e contenutisticamente, le relazioni della sco- 
perta risentono in maniera evidente dei sogni dei loro autori e delle finalita 
per cui essi le avevano scritte, questa differenza non si presenta in maniera 
cosi fortemente marcata per quel che riguarda la forma in cui nitroviamo 1 
moduli narrativi e descrittivi tipici della narrativa del ‘500: ma gia troppo é 
stato scritto sulla lingua dei viaggiatori: qui interessa solo far notare come il 
desiderio di uniformarsi ad una direttiva ormai generalizzata (potremmo 
semplificando definirla bembesca) riesca a imporsi su diversi tipi di con- 
tenuto delle varie relazioni. Non poco, credo, avra significato l’enorme dif- 
fusione che questi scritti ebbero a mezzo stampa, perché “stampare — con o 
senza permesso dell’autore — una relazione di viaggio, rappresenta sempre 
un buon affare, a Roma come a Firenze, a Venezia, a Milano, a Siviglia ad 
Augusta, a Basilea, a Lione o a Parigi:” (Milanesi, “Introduzione” a Ra- 
musio, 1: v): il fascino della diversita e della “meraviglia” attirava irre- 
sistibilmente da una parte il lettore dotto, che riusciva a leggere gli elementi 
di novita scavalcando le infarciture del mito, dall’altra la grande massa che 
con la stampa poteva finalmente accedere alla lettura diretta e che dei miti e 
dei sogni, reali o irreali, amava nutrirsi. 


Universita “Ca’ Foscar?’ di Venezia 


Operte citate 


Agnese, Battista. Atlante nautico, 1536. Venezia, Marsilio, 1990. 
. Atlante (1554-1556), Ms. Marc. Ital., VI, 62 (=5067), a cura di P. 

Falchetta, Canal Multimedia, 1996. 

Aldrovandi, Ulisse. Ornithologiae. Bologna: Francesco de’ Francisci,1599. 

Ariosto, Ludovico. Orlando furioso, a cura di L. Caretti. Torino: Einaudi, 1966. 

Carlett, Francesco, Ragionamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo, a cura di A. Dei. 
Milano: Mursia, 1987. 

Colombo, Cristoforo, “Primo viaggio. Diario di bordo”, in Nuovo mondo. Gk Itaktani 
1492-1565, a cura di P. Collo e P. L. Crovetto. Torino: Einaudi, 1991. 


METTERE IL VIAGGIO IN CARTA 103 


Gerbi, Antonello, La natura delle Indie nuove. Da Cristoforo Colombo a Gonzalo Fernandez 
de Oviedo. Milano-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1975. 

, I/ mito del Pera. Milano: Franco Angeli, 1988. 

Heikamp, Detlef. Mexico and the Medic. Firenze: Eidam, 1972. 

Lopez de Gomara, Francisco. Historia general de las Indias. Medina del Campo: 
Guillermo de Millis, 1553 (I ed.1522). 

Mandeville, John de. Viaggto ovvero Trattato delle cose pik meravighose e pin notabih che si 
trovano al mondo. Milano: Il Saggiatore, 1982. (con glossario dei toponim1) 

Navigare e descrivere. Isolari e portolani del Museo Correr di Venezia. XV-XVIII secol, a 
cura di C. Tonini e P. Lucchi. Venezia, Marsilio, 2001. 

Olmi, Giuseppe. L inventario del mondo. Catalogazione della natura e luoghi del sapere nella 
prima eta moderna. Bologna, Il Mulino: (“Annali dell’Istituto storico italo- 
germanico”), 1992. 

Olschki, Leonardo. Storia letteraria delle scoperte geografiche. Firenze: Olschki, 1937. 

Ramusio, Giovan Battista. Navigazioni e viaggi, a cura di M. Milanesi. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1978-1988. 

Romeo, Rosario. Le scoperte americane nella coscienza italiana del Cinquecento. Ban: 
Laterza, 1989. 

Surdich, Francesco. Verso i/ nuovo mondo. La dimensione e Ja coscienza delle scoperte. 
Firenze: Giunti, 1991. 

, Verso il nuovo Mondo. L’immaginario europeo e la scoperta dell’America. 
Firenze: Giunti, 2002. 

Todorov, Tzvetan. La conquista dell’America. Il problema dell’ altro’. Torino: Einaudi, 
1984. 

Vespucci, Amerigo, I/ mondo nuovo, a cura di M. Pozzi. Milano: Serra e Riva, 1984. 


7 VTOPIAE INSVLAE FIGVRA 


{| 

EA = f" c <i ||| i ta 
Sl) em oo) ” rT = a4 
a SG war. ALA Ete —— 
ae FS im 3 LA SSN 5 
= = 


SN yea 
fRS ES SS 



















ae 
=f 
ia 
a 
fa 


HME 
UM? 
= wD 
hugel g-} arrehin Ul” /| 
1 


ll 
EV 


1% 









} 
ras 


FRANCOIS MOUREAU 





Voyages anonymes et manuscrits 
a PAge classique: 
une stratégie de communication réservée? 


janimais une table-ronde sur la «communication manuscrite» au XVIII 

siécle, qui fut publiée a Oxford sous le titre de «De bonne main» (1993). 
Lidée fédératrice de cette journée était que la persistance du manuscrit comme 
moyen de communication large en marge de la Galaxie Gutenberg avait un sens 
qui allait au-dela d’une survivance de procédés archaiques. Le manuscrit avait 
une fonction propre qui alliait une justification sociale 4 un mode spécifique 
de diffusion. Cette idée a été confirmée par la suite dans les différents secteurs 
de l’écrit ot cette pratique se remarquait. 

Qu’entendons-nous par manuscrit a lAge classique ? Il va de soi que nous 
distinguons l’autographe de la copie. A de rares exceptions prés dont je reparlerai, 
seule la copie nous intéresse. Comme au Moyen Age, la copie par scribe ou 
secrétaire, dans un scriptorium de monastétre ou dans un galetas de la rue Saint- 
Jacques, est un moyen de diffusion; ce n’est ni un objet bibliophilique ni la le¢on 
de référence d’un texte. Qui dit copie dit multiplication, mais aussi corruption 
et malléabilité du contenu. Qui dit autographe suggére l’unicité ou du moins 
Poriginalité justiciable de l’étude génétique. Comme le prote, le copiste n’est 
responsable que de ses «coquilles». Tout cela s’entend sur la longue durée et 
n’est pas comptable de coupures séculaires qui n’ont, en l’espéce, aucun sens, 
méme si le type de manuscrit ainsi diffusé ou sa fonction peut évoluer 

On le sait, Pautographe littéraire conservé est rare pour les siécles qui nous 
occupent. L’habitude de le détruire dés que le prote en avait tiré de la casse 
une composition au plomb, la bienséance aussi qui voulait que l’on bralat la 
correspondance recue d’une personne décédée nous a privé de l’essentiel des 
originaux. C’est sans doute avec Rousseau, pour qui l’activité de copiste était 


Li du congrés international des Lumieéres qui se tint a Bristol en 1991, 


1. De bonne main. La Communication manuscrite au XVIII siécl, F. Moureau éd.. (Paris, 
Universitas; Oxford, Voltaire Foundation, 1993). 





Annali dTtalanistica 22 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited/ Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


106 FRANCOIS MOUREAU 


4 certains égards une forme d’écriture originale — Jean-Jacques était awssi Saint- 
Preux ou Julie — que la notion de manuscrit autographe a pris une valeur en 
France. Pour la période classique, le manuscrit littéraire au sens large est presque 
uniquement une copie. Cette copie n’était évidemment pas destinée a la 
publication. Quelle était alors sa destination ? 

Il faut, de ce point de vue, distinguer le manuscrit de secrétaire du manuscrit 
de copiste, notion technique mais aussi juridique qui n’est pas sans importance. 
La police du livre, par exemple, ne s’intéressait qu’aux manuscrits de copistes, 
considérant que les copies de secrétaire étaient destinées 4 un usage réservé non- 
public. Ces secrétaires touchaient au monde du pouvoir et de l’argent que la 
simple prudence recommandait de ne pas troubler; les scribes payés a la tache 
ne bénéficiaient pas de ce type de protection et se retrouvaient vite embastillés 
et réduits au pain du Roi. 

C’est dire qu’il convient de distinguer ces deux espéces de manuscrit dont 
la conservation, dans les fonds d’archives et les bibliothéques, n’a que rarement 
suivi le méme parcours. Le manuscrit de secrétaire est en général relié, réalisé 
dans un grand format, d’une écriture large et bouclée sur des feuilles réglées 
laissant respirer des marges respectables. I] se présente comme le substitut du 
livre, mais dans une forme qui signe son origine: c’est l’aristocrate de la copie, 
le livre que l’on peut ranger dans une bibliothéque sans qu’il fasse tache. En 
revanche, le manuscrit de copiste est «en blanc» comme l’on disait alors, en 
feuilles, les cahiers parfois réunis par des rubans de couleur; on y sent la main 
du professionnel, car les lettres sont moulées et réguliéres, mais on y sent aussi 
la presse d’un ouvrier payé au rendement, a la «grosse». Le format est en général 
plus petit, les lignes plus serrées: on fonctionne a l'économie. Ces manuscrits 
eurent rarement le privilége d’orner les bibliothéques tapissées de maroquin, 
a la facon de la «tannerie» du personnage de La Bruyére. Ils dormirent dans 
le bas-fond des livres en vrac, parfois dans leur Enfer, toujours dans des lieux 
ou leur peu de valeur les sauva parfois. Ces papiers sans intérét se retrouvérent 
au moment de la Révolution dans les saisies des émigrés et versés — pour notre 
satisfaction — dans la série F, fourre-tout, des Archives départementales francaises. 
Leurs lointains cousins — les manuscrits de secrétaire — avaient suivi un autre 
destin; rien ne plait plus aux révolutionnaires que de se couler dans les habits 
des ci-devant. Avant méme la Révolution, comme nous |’avons noté dans De 
bonne main, les ventes publiques avec catalogues faisaient une large place a ce 
type de manuscrits, qui, paradoxalement pour nous, étaient plus prisés que les 
autographes modernes. Les dépots révolutionnaires ne les détruisirent pas; ils 
furent confiés aux bibliothéques nouvelles ou gonflérent de plus anciennes 
collections. Le reste eut un destin privé. Le résultat est qu’aujourd’hui les 
enqueétes doivent étre effectuées dans tous les dépdts — archives ou bibliothéques 
— qui purent bénéficier 4 une date ou a une autre de ce patrimoine libéré et 
de legs plus volontaires. 








VOYAGES ANONYMES ET MANUSCRITS 107 


L’intérét pour les manuscrits modernes non autographes est encore plus 
récent que celui des autographes qui sont un objet de collection, donc de 
conservation depuis le XVIII° siécle et, plus particuliérement, depuis qu’un 
archiviste-paléographe, Etienne Charavay,’et, dans une moindre mesure, le libraire 
Jules Techener’ en eurent composé, sous le Second Empire, des catalogues a 
prix marqué. On y trouve les copies sous la dénomination dévalorisante de 
«documents». Les copies précieuses calligraphiées a la maniére de Jarry pour 
la Guirlande de Juke étaient, pour leur part, cataloguées dans les ventes de livres. 
Les copies manuscrites intéressaient surtout les historiens, et ’un des premiers 
a leur accorder une valeur scientifique fut Amans-Alexis Monteil, bien oublié 
aujourd’hui, qui publia en 1836 un Tratté de matériaux manuscrits de divers genres 
d’bistoire. Cette idée d’un «traité de la conservation des manuscrits» destiné a 
une «histoire des Francais de divers états» lui était venue 4 la fin de la Révolution 
en écoutant deux jeunes gens discuter sur un banc du jardin des Tuileries et 
«déplorer les ravages que venait de faire la barbarie révolutionnaire, ravages 
moins grands sur les livres imprimés que sur les livres manuscrits, ot ignorance 
est bien plus ignorante».’ L’intérét pour les manuscrits modernes tranchait avec 
la tradition chartiste qui ne se préoccupait guére que des livres a peintures et 
des parchemins médiévaux. En charge des inventaires de manuscrits conservés 
dans les institutions dont ils avaient la garde, ces éminents spécialistes des origines 
de notre histoire n’avaient, sauf exception, aucun gout pour ces documents d’une 
affligeante modernité. La qualité de leurs notices descriptive s’en ressentit 
souvent, et le catalogue imprimé des fonds manuscrits des bibliothéques de 
France commencé sous la Troisiéme République n’est pas dépourvu de ce défaut 
d’époque. Combien de numéros d’inventaire sobrement désignés comme «recueil 
de piéces diverses historiques et littéraires, XVI°-XVIII° siécles» peuvent faire 
réver le chercheur, le décevoir ou le ravir, selon le résultat de son expédition 
4 quelques centaines de kilométres de chez lui! Nous avons méme vu — mais 
en Allemagne — le résultat d’une logique organisatrice plus prussienne que 
hanovrienne qui avait découpé, selon la date des piéces, un ensemble de 
manuscrits ot le pascalien le plus sagace n’ett pu reconstituer l’original dépecé. 
Encore les méfaits d’un demi-savant. 

Le classement par «ordre des tablettes» comme l’on disait au XVIII‘ siécle, 
par entrée dans le fonds comme !’on dirait aujourd’hui, ne facilite pas la recherche 


2. Etienne Charavay, La Science des autographes. Essai critique (Paris, Charavay Fréres, 1887). 


3. Jules Techener, Description raisonnée d'une collection choisie d’anciens manuscrits, de documents 
historiques et de chartes (Paris, J. Techener, 1862). 

4. A.-A. Monteil, Traité des matériaux manuscrits de divers genres d'histoire [...]. Nouvelle édition 
augmentée de la maniére de considérer ce traité et de s’en servir (Paris. E. Duvergger, 1836), 2 vol. Ici, 
I, p. 1-1 («Introduction»). 


108 FRANCOIS MOUREAU 


de manuscrits souvent anonymes dans leur présentation, méme si quelque érudit 
les a attribués par ailleurs dans telle revue spécialisée que le catalogueur n’a pas 
lue. On ne peut demander a un conservateur qui passe sans transition d’une 
bulle papale du XII‘ siecle 4 un poéme décadent «fin de siécle» de tout connaitre 
de ce qu’il inventorie. Du moins faut-il qu’il n’omette rien dans le dossier qui 
puisse servir a son identification. I] existe évidemment des lieux ot la probabilité 
de trouver un document inconnu est plus grande qu’ailleurs: dans le «Fonds 
Périgord» de la Bibliotheque nationale de France formé par l’abbé Prunis, 
découvreur du Journal de voyage de Montaigne, on peut s’attendre a grappiller 
quelque chose sur l’auteur des Essazs, mais, le plus souvent, c’est le pur hasard 
— et beaucoup de temps perdu 4 feuilleter catalogues et fichiers — qui fournit 
le manuscrit que l’on n’attendait pas; car, en général, on est en quéte d’autre 
chose. Il existe, en dehors de la Bibliothéque nationale de France, des mines 
de manuscrits qui facilitent la recherche, nous citerons plus bas l’un d’entre eux. 
Mais le circuit des manuscrits reste pour l’essentiel mystérieux: les travaux 
d’inventaire devraient toujours, de ce fait, étre ’ceuvre d’équipes aux intéréts 
suffisamment divers pour ne rien oublier de ce qui pourrait étre utile a la 
communauté scientifique dans tel secteur ou pour une période donnée. Est-ce 
trop demander? L’informatique et les nouvelles technologies ne résoudront 
pas ce probléme qui doit étre traité «humainement», par la consultation 
personnelle et ’autopsie du document. 

Quels sont les domaines couverts par la majorité des documents exploitables 
pour Phistoire de la pensée, des arts et de la littérature a Age classique? Nous 
nous permettrons ici quelques généralisations hatives en partant de la distinction 
entre manuscrits de secrétaire et manuscrits de copiste. Dans la premiére catégorie, 
on peut classer les documents de littérature personnelle, allant des mémoires 
aux relations de voyage; dans la seconde, on rangera les documents destinés 
a une diffusion limitée, comme les manuscrits philosophiques hétérodoxes,° 
ou professionnelle, comme les «nouvelles a la main», forme clandestine de la 
presse d’information.’ On voit que ces diverses catégories se définissent 
essentiellement par leur aire de diffusion, de la plus étroite 4 la plus large. Les 
manuscrits de secrétaire sont ’équivalent des presses privées pour les imprimés. 
Ils délimitent un lectorat qui ne va pas au-dela du premier cercle, celui des intimes 
ou des familiers qui peuvent accéder a cette écriture singuliére. Le cercle le 


5. Voir Miguel Benitez, La Face cachée des Lumiétres (Paris, Universitas; Oxford, Voltaire 
Foundation, 1996), qui en fournit un inventaire provisoire et de solides analyses. 


6. Francois Moureau, Répertoire des nouvelles a la main. Dictionnaire de la presse manusorite clandestine. 
XVI-XVII siécle (Oxford, Voltaire Foundation, 1999): quinze ans d’inventaire de 
bibliothéques et d’archives pour la remise au jour de ce pan méconnu de l'information, 
compilé de la Renaissance a la Révolution. Le phénomeéne fut européen, et Vorigine ... 
vaticane. 


VOYAGES ANONYMES ET MANUSCRITS 109 


plus étroit est l’auteur lui-méme, quand il refuse la diffusion de son ceuvre ou 
quand il en réserve la consultation 4 une posténité plus ou moins définie: pour 
donner des exemples illustres, les Historiettes de Tallemant des Réaux ou les 
Mémoires de Saint-Simon appartiennent a cette catégorie de la copie unique 
autographe’. C’est dans celle-ci que on peut compter certaines relations de 
voyage dont le caractére intime et familier frappait sans doute plus les 
contemporains de Montaigne ou de Montesquieu que les ndétres nourris 
d’autofictions. Le journal de voyage était, avec son ego encombrant, le type 
méme de la littérature personnelle qui ne devait pas sortir des archives privées. 
La publication des relations de voyage n’était justifiée que par des objets en 
apparence ou réellement extérieurs 4 la personnalité du voyageur: botanique, 
archéologie, ethnographie, apostolat, etc. L’écrivain-voyageur du XIX* siécle 
qui éclaire le monde de l’arc-en-ciel de sa sensibilité n’a évidemment rien a voir 
avec le voyageur «classique». Quand la relation de voyage devint un mode 
d’écriture, un genre, voire un excellent produit de librairie, le manuscrit céda 
naturellement la place a ’imprimé. En attendant, la relation de voyage se satisfit 
de cette existence vague, un peu honteuse, entre secret et dévoilement. 

A cété de la magnifique collection de James Osborn récemment hébergée 
a la Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library de Yale*, les douze cents 
numéros du fonds Etienne Quatremére de la Bayerische Staatsbibliothek de 
Munich (BStB, codices gallici 621-830, et divers)’ ne font pas mauvaise figure, 
car ils fournissent, pour les voyages et pour les manuscrits francais du XVI° 
au XVIII' siécle, l'une des collections les plus variées conservées hors de France."° 
Vendue a l’Etat de Baviére sous notre Second Empire (1858) par un orientaliste 
parisien passionné, elle est exemple parfait de ce que l’on pouvait trouver de 
plus rare sur le marché parisien dans les premiéres décennies du XIX* siécle. 
Ony distingue trés nettement les diverses strates de manuscrits dont nous avons 
parlé. Le journal autographe du voyage aux Indes de Robert Challe dédié a son 
oncle Raymond et signé-fantaisie challienne trés caractéristique — du nom d’un 


7. Bien que nous connaissions une copie subreptice de certaines pages effectuée au milieu du 
XVIHLI* siécle, si ?on en croit la reliure francaise en demi-maroquin qui la conserve 
(«Anecdotes tirées des Mémoires de M. le duc de Saint-Simon», Munich, BStB, cod. gall. 668 
belle copie professionnelle avec texte encadré, numérotée: «N. 23»). La premiére édition 
d’extraits date de 1781-1788. 


8. John Marciari, «Grand Tour Diaries and Other Travel Manuscripts in the James Marshall 
and Marie-Louise Osborn Collection», The Yale University Library Gazette, Occasional 
Supplement 2, January 1999, IV-17. 


9. Codices manuscrepti Bibliothece regie monacensis, tomus VII (Gallici, etc.), 1858; Rééd.: 
Wiesbaden, O. Harrassowitz, 1971. 


10. Un inventaire de celle-ci se trouve dans la «Base de données viatiques» du site web ouvert 
par le Centre de Recherche sur la Littérature des Voyages: http://www.crlv.org. 


110 FRANCOIS MOUREAU 


autre voyageur, Paul Lucas'” est le parangon du manuscrit anonyme (cod. gall. 
730): on ne saurait faire mieux pour détourner l’attention, et Challe y parvint 
pendant prés de trois siécles... Le manuscrit autographe de censure qui, pour des 
raisons variées, n’a pas été publié, y est représenté par une ceuvre inédite 
d’Antoine Galland, dont une autre partie se trouve a la Bibliotheque royale de 
Bruxelles”: paraphé par le censeur et numismate Philibert-Bernard Moreau de 
Mautour en juin 1715, ce «Voyage fait dans le Levan» est un autographe trés 
corrigé de Galland (cod. gall. 727-728) comprenant trois longues lettres en deux 
volumes adressées 4l’abbé de la Chambre. Il appartint ensuite 4 Louis Francois 
de la Tour, secrétaire du Roi, puis a Porientaliste Louis-Mathieu Langleés (vers 
1791)", avant de parvenir 4 Quatremére. Ne pas avoir été imprimé a sauvé le 
manuscrit. Le cas est un peu différent pour l’Abrégé de l'histoire chinoise - « sur 
papier de Chine » - par le pére Alexandre de la Charme qui bénéficie d’une 
approbation signée 4 Pékin par son confrére le pére Antoine Gaubil en septembre 
1741 (cod. gall. 659): ce manuscrit autographe sur un sujet délicat pour les 
chrétiens — la chronologie chinoise '*— proposait une «traduction francaise avec 
des notes du Kia Tsee houei ki, qui est un abrégé des annales chinoises»; le livre 
ne fut pas publié, malgré son imprimatur quile réserva sans doute pour un temps 
al’ Archivum romain de la Compagnie. On ne connait rien de son destin jusqu’a 
son acquisition par Quatremére. La collection posséde du méme pére Gaubil 
un beau manuscrit autographe sur papier de soie daté de Pékin , «ce 27 septembre 
1749», un «Traité de chronologie chinoise» (cod. gall. 675) qui prouve que ce 
sujet continuait de préoccuper les missionnaires jésuites: ce texte fut publié en 
1814 par Silvestre de Sacy qui posséda le manuscrit avant Quatremére. 
Apparemment, la Compagnie ne jugeait pas utile la publication de tels ouvrages. 

On peut rattacher aux copies personnelles les manuscrits dits de présentation, 
exemplaires en apparence uniques spécialement destinés 4 un protecteur ou 
4 quelqu’un que !’on souhaitait honorer ou convaincre d’importance. Les 
« Réflexions sur le bonheur » de Mme du Chatelet dans une somptueuse reliure 
de Derome en maroquin rouge sont de cette catégorie (cod. gall. 769). Ce peut 
étre aussi une relation viatique comme celle du «Voyage de l’Archipel et du Levant 


11. Voir Pédition du Journal du voyage des Indes orientales. A Monsieur Pierre Raymond, |. Popin et 
F. Deloffre éd. (Genéve, Droz, 1998). 


12. Récemment publiée: Voyages inédits. Edition critique établie par Manuel Couvreur et Didier 
Viviers, Tome Premier: Smyme ancienne et moderne, suivie de Joseph Georgine, Etat présent 
des iles de Samos, Icarie, Pathmos et du mont Athos traduit du Grec vulgaire en francais par 
Antoine Galland; et de Jacques Paul Babin, Relation de l’ile de Tine, contenue dans une lettre 
a Monsr **** (Paris, Librairie Honoré Champion, 2001). 


13. Note sur cod. gall. 751 («Etat présent des iles de Samos [...]», méme origine). 


14. Voir notre article: «ltinéraires jésuites en Chine ou les Lumiéres naissent 4 PEs, SVEC, 
Oxford, 2003:1. 





VOYAGES ANONYMES ET MANUSCRITS dit 


dédié 4 Mme la marquise de Vallavoire» (1692) (cod. gall. 638) par un rédacteur 
anonyme’ : la copie professionnelle et le texte encadré renvoient a une pratique 
de communication large; en revanche, l’anonymat - méme sil’on discerne sous 
le voile un chevalier de Malte — témoigne de l’appartenance de ce manuscrit 
illustré de cinquante-deux dessins 4 la catégorie de P’intime réservé. Si l’exemplaire 
n’est qu'une copie, il mime le statut et la fonction d’unicum pour son destinataire"*. 
La «Dissertation critique sur les divers ordres de rames dans les galéres des 
Anciens» daté en 1700 de Marseille (cod. gall. 625) par son auteur, Jean-Antoine 
de Barras de la Penne, capitaine des galéres, est un pastiche trés réussi ...de 
livre et d’unicum. Cette copie professionnelle sur papier réglé joue l’exceptionnel 
par d’autres signes de distinction: son format in-folio et sa reliure de maroquin 
de belle qualité. Elle singe le livre par la présence d’une piéce de vers liminaire 
a la gloire de l’auteur signée de Modeste Vinot, oratorien, que l’on connait comme 
traducteur des Fab/es de La Fontaine en latin, et par Putilisation cynique 
d’ornements typographiques gravés tirés d’autres ouvrages: le frontispice de 
la «Science des galéres» (1697) et des bandeaux; les planches gravées par Randon 
sont du dessin de l’auteur qui les signe. Aucune dédicace n’est visible; il s’agit 
d’un livre pour se faire plaisir, de la part d’un auteur qui ne put le faire imprimer"’: 
ce chef-d’ceuvre 4 un exemplaire fut, a n’en pas douter, celui de l’auteur lui-méme. 
Passons maintenant a des types de manuscrits moins chargés d’affectivité. 
Les copies de chancellerie forment un ensemble trés bien représenté dans nos 
bibliothéques et nos archives. Celles qui intéressent la littérature des voyages 
concernent les relations d’ambassades: voyage de France jusqu’au « poste » ou 
tournée d’inspection dans les limites du pays ou le diplomate est accrédité. Le 
texte est rédigé sous le nom de l’ambassadeur ou sous celui d’un secrétaire 
commis 4 cette tache. Le grand nombre des copies conservées prouve que ces 
documents étaient destinés 4 la formation et 4 linformation des futurs 


15. Le manuscrit appartint au collectionneur universel qu’était Mathieu Villenave: une note 
autographe de ce dernier le signale dans la collection Tersan (n° 1228): Pabbé Charles Philippe 
Campion de Tersan dont la vente (dont 206 ms.) eut lieu a Paris du 8 au 30 octobre 1819 
(Lugt 9679). 

16. La famille de Vallavoire était provengale (du comté de Forcalqiuer), comme de nombreux 


chevaliers de Malte (la « Langue de Provence »). A. Jal a consacré une notice au marquis de 
Vallavoire, mort en 1694, un valeureux militaire qui avait €pousé en 1652 Anne Amat, sans 
doute notre marquise. Jal note qu’elle fut la marraine d’un des enfants de l’Arlequin 
Dominique Biancolelli (Dictionnaire critique de liographie et d'histoire, Paris, Plon, 1872, p. 1221). 


17. Le libraire marseillais Jean-Baptiste Boy ne publia que quelques « lettres critiques » de 
Barras sur histoire des galéres. Une édition de son ceuvre manuscrite est en cours en 
Hollande par Jan Fennis (Ubbergen, Tandem Felix, 1998-2000). Voir notre communication : 
«Le livre maritime dans l’économie de la librairie francaise, des origines au milieu du XVIII* 
siécle» (colloque de Brest, novembre 2002: Le Livre mantime 1750-1850). 


112 FRANCOIS MOUREAU 


représentants francais a Pétranger: telle fut ’objet de ’Académie politique fondée 
en 1712 par le marquis de Torcy, secrétaire d’Etat aux Affaires étrangéres, que 
le Régent chargea dés 1715 de rassembler une bibliothéque de ces relations". 
A Véchelle nationale, les mémoires des intendants sur les provinces pour 
instruction du duc de Bourgogne eurent la méme fonction 4 la fin du XVII* 
siécle;!” les copies de chancellerie sont la aussi fort communes. Les relations 
diplomatiques les plus courantes concernent la Porte, avec laquelle la France, 
depuis les «capitulations» signées par Francois I* et Soliman le Magnifique, 
entretenait des relations particuliérement étroites; elle se voyait confier d’autre 
part la protection des chrétiens d’Orient dans les territoires sous autorité 
ottomane, ce qui autorisait les représentants diplomatiques francais a des tournées 
d’inspection a travers les iles grecques et en Terre Sainte. Tous les exemplaires 
ne sont pas aussi magnifiques que «Le Voyage du baron de Saint-Blancart en 
Turquie», manuscrit de dédicace sur vélin 4 Francois I* de son ambassadeur 


4 la Porte, dont la relation est signée de Jean de Vega (1537). Les exemplaires 
Quatremére de Munich sont plus modestes, mais beaucoup plus caractéristiques 
de ce type de manuscrit: format in-folio, papier fort, écriture haute et réguliére, 
marges importantes, manchettes. Ils concernent les ambassades de Mgr. Francois 
de Noailles (1571-1575) (cod. gall. 648), de La Haye pére et fils (1661-1670) 
(cod. gall. 639-640), du fastueux marquis de Nointel” (1670-1679) (cod. gall. 
643-647) et de Guilleragues (1679-1685) (cod. gall. 641-642): tous ces volumes 
appartinrent au début du XIX‘ siécle 4 un certain A. Girardin, mais ils avaient 
été copiés vers la fin du XVII° siécle et reliés en veau brun a des armes frangaises 
que nous n’avons pu identifier.” Francois Pétis de la Croix, secrétaire de 
lambassade de Constantinople et pére du continuateur homonyme des Milk 
et une nuits, signa, de son cdté, des relations que l’on trouve, entre autres dépots, 
a la Bibliothéque nationale de France.” 

Il reste a s’interroger sur l’anonymat de la plupart de ces textes. Les 
manuscrits diplomatiques échappent seuls systématiquementa ce statut; destinés 
a rendre compte d’une mission au ministre et a servir a la formation des 
diplomates, ils sont naturellement personnalisés pour en justifier le contenu. 


18. Nous en avons donné une analyse dans le Repertoire des nouvelles a la main (notice 1715.9). 


19. Louis Trénard, Les Mémoires des intendants pour linstruction du duc de Bourgogne: 1698 (Paris, 
Bibliotheque Nationale, 1975). 


20. F. Moureau, «Voyages manuscrits de l’Age classique: Nointel, Caylus, Fourmont, ou le 
Retour aux sources», Vers /’Onent par la Gréce, avec Nerval et d'autres voyageurs, Loukia Droulia et 
Vasso Mentzou éd., Paris, Klincksieck, 1993, p. 21-27. 


21. Trois tétes d’oiseau (aigler) dans un écu crénelé surmonté d’un heaume. 


22. Bibliothéque nationale de France, ms., fr. 6094-6097 (années 1670-1679). 


VOYAGES ANONYMES ET MANUSCRITS 113 


On retrouve les mémes raisons de la rupture de l’anonymat dans les « journaux 
de bord » que les officiers de la Marine royale devaient rédiger et remettre 4 
leur retour aux archives de leur port d’attache”. L’anonymat n’appartient pas 
non plus a la tradition de la Compagnie de Jésus ot! chaque pére témoigne a 
sa maniére, comme soldat du Christ, de son action «ad majorem Dei gloriam». 
Les relations jésuites, devenues au XVIIT° siécle en France les Lettres édifiantes 
et curieuses imprimées, furent toujours signées de leur auteur, dés les premiéres 
feuilles publiées au XVI° siécle sur les missions du Japon et du Brésil. A Vorigine, 
il s’agissait de rapports particuliers adressés au Préposé général de la Compagnie 
par l’intermédiaire des Provinciaux dont la publication parut ensuite utile pour 
entretenir le zéle missionnaire du monde catholique. La signature signalait l’esprit 
de sacrifice plus que la gloriole mondaine d’étre auteur. En revanche, ce que 
Pon pourrait appeler les relations de voyages laiques sont en grande majorité 
anonymes. On peut certes remarquer que l’anonymat est, jusqu’au XVIII° siécle, 
une régle assez constante pour les ouvrages imprimés de littérature, 4 l’exclusion 
du théatre — genre socialisé par excellence — et des recueils d’ceuvres d’auteurs 
installés dans un certain Panthéon™*. Observée pour les imprimés, l’absence 
de nom d’auteur ne devrait pas étonner sur la page de titre des manuscrits de 
voyages. En effet, nombreux sont les voyages imprimés qui s’épargnent de 
nommer un auteur, méme si, parfois, la dédicace le dévoile. Cette pratique est 
presque générale pour les manuscrits, quoique le caractére fondamentalement 
autobiographique du récit de voyage rende d’autant plus curieux ce jeu de cache- 
cache. La relation est alors, en partie, pour le lecteur indiscret un champ d’indices 
qui devrait permettre de remonter jusqu’a l’auteur. 

De toute évidence, le but de cet anonymat qu'il s’imposait était autre. La 
relation de voyage était considérée — nous l’avons dit — comme un document 
personnel, familial, réservé 4 quelques intimes quand on en faisait tirer copie. 
D’ot son exclusion des «ceuvres completes» imprimées pour les écrivains les 
plus célébres — Montaigne ou Montesquieu — ou de toute publication indigne 
de leur statut social pour les autres, fit-ce un Sade ou un président de Brosses. 
La discrétion du voyageur pouvait aussi se comprendre pour des causes liées 
a sa situation personnelle: exclusion d’un groupe social qui expliquait la décision 
de voyager, mission secréte sous le couvert d’un voyage « pour le plaisir », etc. 
Mais, dans la plupart des cas, cet anonymat ne se justifie pas et peut étre 
facilement levé. Dans son voyage aux Indes, Challe donne toutes les informations 
sur son périple — date du départ, nom du navire et de ses officiers, statut 


23. Voir, par exemple, Etienne Taillemite, Bougainville et ses compagnons autour du monde 1766- 
1769. Journaux de navigation (Paris, Imprimerie nationale, 1977), 2 vol. 


24. F. Moureau, «Illustres anonymes: auteurs feints et clandestinité au XVIII* siécle», La Lettre 
clandestine, n° 8, 1999 [2000], p. 55-63. 


114 FRANCOIS MOUREAU 


personnel du voyageur comme « écrivain », etc. — qui permettent de mettre un 
nom sur l’auteur anonyme de la relation. On pourrait presque dire qu’il agit 
de méme dans le manuscrit des Difficultés sur la religion ou anonyme adversaire 
du pére Malebranche séme un peu partout des éléments de sa propre biographie. 
*> Dans le voyage imprimé, Challe complique néanmoins la tache du chasseur 
en redistribuant en divers temps et en divers lieux des anecdotes du premier 
récit resté manuscrit *. Mais cette situation extreme prouve seulement les limites 
de la méthode d’attribution biographique. II est toujours irritant de ne pouvoir 
mettre un nom sur le récit d’un voyageur dont on posséde, cédée par lui-méme, 
la plus grande partie de la biographie. 

Quel était donc ce voyageur du XVII‘ siécle qui nous a laissé un magnifique 
récit de voyage a Java et, tel le petit Poucet, tous les «cailloux» de sa biographie 
antérieure? ”’ Le titre lui-méme du manuscrit de copie conservé a Munich (BStB, 
cod. gall. 720) est une espéce de provocation: Voyage des grandes Indes orientales 
commencant depuis le 26¢ décembre 1644 partant de Parts, et du jour de l'embarquement 
aux c6tes de Hollande le 19e avril 1645. Levant l'ancre le 22e dudit mois: Et arrivant 
4 Java sur Jakarta, ou Batavia en Aste, ke septieme décembre 1645 que nous désembarqudmes. 
Pareillement le retour dudit voyage pour revenir dans Europe, partant dudit Batavia en 
Asie, le 20e janvier 1651. Arrivant au Tessel [Texel] heu du désembarquement le 29e 
aoht 1651. arrivant a Parts le 5e octobre 1651. Le voyage a aller, et reventr a été de six 
ans et neuf mots et demi. Tout y est dit, sauf l’essentiel: le nom de |’auteur qui 
s’exprime pourtant a la premiére personne dans le récit et qui ne semble rien 
celer de ce qu'il est et de ce qu’il pense. Ils’agit d’un jeune Parisien de la bonne 
société qui trouve prudent de s'éloigner quelque temps de France pour les 
Provinces-Unies, pourvu de «lettres de personnes considérables qui [lle 
recommandaient pour ce pays» (Ch. 2, f. 14). Ilest accompagné dans son voyage 
vers Orient par le baron du Bellay, gentilhomme champenois rencontré a 
Amsterdam dans une auberge, «proche I'Eglise francaise» (Ch. 2, f. 14), ce qui 
laisse supposer qu'il était de religion réformée. L’hypothése est confirmée par 
une obligation qu’il s’impose a son départ de Malacca pour la Hollande: «Je 
fis faire aussi mon attestation et la fis signer au consistoire par un ministre» 
(protestant) (f. 151). Il s'engage pour cing ans avec son ami dans les troupes 


25. Robert Challe, Difficultés sur la religion propostes au pére Malebranche. Edition nouvelle d’aprés 
le manuscrit complet et fidéle de la Staatsbibliothek de Munich par Frédéric Deloffre et 
Francois Moureau, Genéve, Droz, 2000, 814 p. (coll. « Textes littéraires fran¢ais » 521). 


26. F. Moureau, «Chiffre et déchiffrement dans le Journal d’un voyage aux Indes orientales de 
Challe», Challe et/en son temps. Textes présentés par Marie-Laure Girou Swiderski avec la 
collaboration de Pierre Berthiaume, Paris, Honoré Champion, 2002, p. 213-224. 


27. F. Moureau, «Un Parisien a Java: récit inédit du XVII siécle», Mé/anges Jacques Huré, Paris, 
Champion, 2003 (sous presse). 





VOYAGES ANONYMES ET MANUSCRITS 115 


de la Compagnie hollandaise des Indes (VOC) et fait le voyage sur un navire 
de la flotte commandeée par I'amiral «Charles Toignie». Simple «engagé» dans 
la garnison de Batavia (f. 60), il peut étre considéré comme un déclassé volontaire. 
Mais lorsque, en octobre 1649, le président de Malacca soupgonne qu’un homme 
de qualité se dissimule derriére le simple soldat, notre anonyme commente 
simplement sans se découvrir: il «m’envoya quérir, et ayant su qui j’étais par 
quelque Francais marchand, me questionna fort et me dit d’ou venait que j’avais 
entrepris ce voyage, quelle curiosité j’avais eu de le faire et pourquoi je ne m’étais 
pas fait connaitre au général, que si j’avais eu quelque déplaisir parmi eux ce 
n’était que de ma faute, ne sachant qui j’étais» (f. 137). Le commentaire s’arréte 
la et nous n’en saurons pas davantage. Le jeune voyageur avait quitté Paris le 
lendemain de Noél 1644, dix mois aprés la signature d’un traité d’alliance militaire 
entre la France et les Etats-Généraux, et il y revint par Rouen en octobre 1651, 
en pleine Fronde des Princes. Pourquoi tout ce mystére alors que tant de 
réflexions personnelles avaient été égrainées parallélement par le jeune voyageur? 
La relation semble se suffire en soi, et l’auteur caché ne dissimule en rien le 
voyageur, ce qui est le plus important dans ce type de littérature ot l’acuité du 
regard l’emporte sur lidentité du scribe qui transmet le vécu particulier. 
L’anonymat autorise le texte lui-méme a circuler, puisqu’il est moins un document 
personnel qu’une expérience singuliére mais reproductible. Cela peut expliquer 
que certains récits réels comme les lettres de Maximilien Misson aient pu étre 
publiées sous le titre de Nouveau V oyage d Ttake (1691) et faire fonction de guide 
pendant prés d’un siécle pour les voyageurs. 

Le monde des manuscrits modernes est ce vaste continent de nos biblio- 
théques et de nos archives qui reste encore a découvrir pour sa plus grande part. 
On y trouve certes la petite monnaie du génie, voire du simple talent, mais le 
manuscrit n’est pas en soi inférieur a l’imprimeé. I] est le fruit d’une conception 
particuliére de l’écrit qui nous échappe aujourd’hui. Simple objet de consomma- 
tion, le livre n’est plus, 4 notre époque, chargé de la moindre aura de nécessité; 
il est jetable, reproduit a l’infini si on le souhaite, contingent. Dans une société 
ou dominait la rareté, il n’était pas question de rendre public ce qui n’était pas 
destiné au public. La communication manuscrite occupait une place intermédiaire 
entre l’inédit par fonction et la diffusion vers le plus grand nombre. Quelque 
chose comme une circulation réservée ou la relation de voyage avait pleinement 
sa place. 


Université de Paris-Sorbonne (Paris IV) 
Centre de Recherche sur la Littérature des Voyages (CRLV) 


f 





ZZ Sn tMindes 


SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


Voyage et libertinage, ou ’usage du genre 
hodéporique comme “machine a déniaiser” 
dans la littérature francaise du XVII‘ siécle' 


Quelques-uns achévent de se corrompre par de 
longs voyages, et perdent le peu de religion qui leur res- 
toit. Ils voient de jour 4 autre un nouveau culte, di- 
verses meeurs, diverses cérémonies; [...] le grand 
nombre de celles qu’on leur montre les rend plus indif- 
férents. (La Bruyére, Les Caradtéres, “Des esprits forts”) 


Voyage égale corruption: telle est l’attaque de La Bruyére contre Bernier et 
contre tous les libertins en général. Alain Niderst a analysé attentivement 
cette citation (355-362) en montrant l’ampleur du topos développé par Das- 
soucy, La Mothe le Vayer, le “militaire philosophe,” Fontenelle et tant 
d’autres. La Bruyére n’est en effet pas le seul pourfendeur des voyages 
libertins. Boulliau, qui est également allé en Orient, a vu son départ salué 
par les censeurs ainsi: 


Enfin, notre profette a faict voile; [...] comme il a veu qu'il ne faisoit pas 
entierement seur pour lui a Rome, il a aisément pris le parti de s’esloigner 
de la veue des clochers de St Pierre pour s’approcher des moschées de 
Constantinople, et, pour peu qu’on le pressast, ie croi qu'il se coifferoit 
aussi bien du turban que de son bonnet carré pourveu qu’il pust conserver 
sa peau entiere. (cité par Pintard 375) 


R. Pintard a en effet montré le role important joué par le voyage dans la 
formation des libertins érudits: 


En route, leur esprit s’exerce 4 un mode de réflexion vif, simple, hardi, 
ami du concret et hostile aux entités scolastiques, plus soucieux de réalité 


1. Cette étude est une version remaniée d’un chapitre de ma thése soutenue le 8 janvier 2000 
sous la direction de Pierre Ronzeaud, Université Aix-Marseille | (Littérature et Voyage au 
XVle siecle: récits, romans, thédtre), en cours de publication. 


Annali dTtalianistica 21(2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


118 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


tangible que d’idéal métaphysique, fort indépendant d’ailleurs a l’égard des 
traditions, et dont le large syncrétisme encourage aux syntheses. (Pintard 


103) 


Leurs voyages se restreignent néanmoins dans l’ensemble a l'Europe, et 
plus précisément 4 la cour intellectuelle de Christine de Suéde, et aux réu- 
nions savantes en Angleterre, en Hollande et en Italie, ou ils découvrent les 
sciences et les méthodes expérimentales, la religion naturelle et la religion 
libérale. Elie Diodati, par exemple, est “toujours par monts et par vaux” 
(Pintard 129): Paris, Genéve, la Hollande, I’Italie, Allemagne, l’Angleterre. 
Il accompagne également Grotius dans son voyage avec le chancelier Oxen- 
stiern. De Thou, d’Italie, traverse la mer vers Constantinople, la Palestine, 
Egypte puis Espagne. La Mothe Le Vayer est “sauvé” par les voyages, 
selon R. Pintard: 


le temps de ma vie que j’estime avoir le mieux employé, déclare-t-il 
encore, en attribuant a son “démon socratique” lutile décision de ses 
départs. Ils fixérent ses curiosités, ils imposérent a son esprit des 
problémes, ils donnérent enfin a sa réflexion une raison d’étre et un sens. 


(136) 


Le fait que le guide du héros des Etats et Empires de la Lune de Cyrano 
de Bergerac soit précisément le démon de Socrate est loin d’étre innocent. 
Adversaire d’Aristote, La Mothe le Vayer reléve ses nombreuses erreurs 
géographiques (Pintard 139). Les voyages de La Mothe Le Vayer se limitent 
finalement aux “principales parties d'Europe” et il doit renoncer, a la fin de 
1627, a faire le voyage du Levant. Mais c’est bien “au temps de ses voyages 
qu'il fait remonter” (Pintard 139) sa révolution libertine. Et s’il ne voyage 
pas loin, c’est la “Bibliothéque du voyageur” qui lui ouvre aussi l’espnit: 


Surtout il s’avisait que nulle part il ne trouverait une mine plus riche de 
documents sur les contradictions de l’intelligence humaine que dans les 
descriptions des “pays estranges” et les relations de voyages. II les lisait 
donc, et avec passion. Tout était bon a son appétit: Diodore de Sicile et 
Jean Léon, les Lettres des Jésuites et les Tables de Mercator. Sur chaque 
contrée il pouvait se vanter de connaitre une monographie, lIrlande de 
Camdem, la Chine de Herrera, la Moscovie de Sigismond d’Herberstein, la 
Turquie de Busbecq, "Ethiopie de Louis Barthema, I’Islande de Blefken, 
la Sarmatie de Gaguin, la Perse de Joseph Barbaro, les Indes occidentales 
d’Oviedo et les Indes orientales d’Acosta. II s’instruisait aussi auprés de 
tous les grands découvreurs, de Jean de Béthencourt et de Marco Polo a 
Champlain, 4 Pyrard de Laval, a Jean Mocquet, au P. Trigault, en passant 
par Pigafetta, par Thomas Cavendish ou par Mendes Pinto. Mais plus il 
avancait dans la connaissance de cette littérature, plus ses investigations se 
faisaient curieuses et actives. [...] C’est sans doute par un manuscrit qu’ll 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 119 


connut la description des cotes de l’est de l’ Afrique par Odoardo Barbosa; 
c’est en tout cas fort peu de temps aprés leur publication qu'il lut bon 
nombre d’ouvrages parus aux environs de 1630: le Traité de la navigation 
de Pierre Bergeron est de 1629; le Voyage faict par terre depuis Paris jus- 
ques a la Chine, par le sieur de Feynes, de l’année suivante; de 1631, la Re- 
lation du voyage de Perse fait par le R.P. Pacifique des Provins, ainsi que 
la Relation de la Cochinchine du P. Christoforo Borri; en 1632 enfin 
furent mis sous presse le Grand voyage au pays des Hurons de Gabriel 
Sagard, et la Brieve relation du voyage de la Nouvelle France, par le P. 
Paul Le Jeune: or, dés 1633, il avait annoté, extrait, utilisé tous ces 
ouvrages. (Pintard 139) 


Cette érudition hodéporique fait de La Mothe Le Vayer un fin connais- 
seur des différences des mceurs et des idées sur la nature humaine. C’est au 
moment ou il est le plus attiré par la pensée pyrrhonienne qu'il étudie la lit- 
térature de voyage, afin de relever des preuves des contradictions de 
’Homme et d’ébranler le systéme des opinions communes et des dog- 
matismes. 

Le réve de l’Orient touche tous les libertins: Boulliau, De Thou, Valli- 
quierville, Luillier, qui ’explique ainsi: 


Jay eu dés ma jeunesse fantaisie pour les voiages et principalement pour 
ceux de l’Orient ot le ciel, la terre et les mceurs sont entiérement 
differentes des nostres. Je ne scay quels attachements et faute d’une 
occasion bien opportune, et plus encore d’une compagnie trés-sortable, 
comme il la faut pour ces longs embarquements, m’ont empesché de me 
contenter jusques a present. (cité par Pintard 372) 


Le plaisir du libertin est redoublé lorsqu’il voyage en compagnie 
d’autres personnes “guéries du sot,” comme Luillier se réjouissant a l’idée 
de partir avec Boulliau et Valliquerville: 


nous ferons d’assez agreables observations et de bons lucianismes, sur les 
facons de faire de ceux que nous aurons laissés, et de ceux parmi lesquels 
nous serons. (cité par Pintard 373) 


Certes, les hommes-navires de L’Histoire véritable de Lucien avaient déja 
introduit la relativité et ’étonnement burlesque face a leurs observations des 
hommes, comme dans ce passage: 


nous vimes des hommes qui utilisaient une étrange facon de naviguer; ils 
étaient eux-mémes 4 la fois marins et navires. Je vais vous dire comment 
ils s’y prenaient; ils se couchaient sur l’eau, le ventre en l’air, dressant leur 
membre (ils en ont un trés grand) et y attachant une voile, puis ils 


120 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


saisissaient les écoutes dans leurs mains, et, entrainés par le vent, ils 
voguaient. (Lucien 1382-1383) 


Les femmes marines, elles, sont appelées chez Lucien “Jambes 
d’Anesses” et se nourrissent des étrangers de passage, avant de se transfor- 
mer en eau et disparaitre (Lucien 1383). Les “lucianismes” des libertins, 
méme s’ils n’ouvrent pas sur de tels exces fantasmagoriques, permettent 
néanmoins de repenser la nature humaine. Mais le voyage en Orient n’aura 
pas lieu, Luillier étant retenu par ses amours et “un libertinage en contra- 
riant un autre” comme [écrit R. Pintard (373). Méme schéma avec Jean- 
Jacques Bouchard, figure majeure de ceux que R. Pintard nomme les “dé- 
niaisés d’Italie,” désireux de partir en Orient mais contraint de se limiter 
finalement au pays papal. Ce sont donc Boulliau et Francois Bernier qui 
réalisent jusqu’a leurs ultimes conséquences philosophiques les réves liber- 
tins du grand voyage oriental. 

Bernier est le grand voyageur connu pour ses lettres, au riche et souvent 
trés neuf contenu anthropologique. Surnommé “le Mogol” et “le Joli Philo- 
sophe,” il écrit 4 partir de ses voyages en Orient (Palestine, Syrie, Egypte, 
Delhi, Lahore, le Cachemire, le Bengale, etc.) des /ettres du médecin B. sur le 
Grand Mogol (1661), une Lettre sur 'étendue de l’Hindoustani, une Histoire de la 
derniére révolution des Etats du Grand Mogol (1670), la Suite des “Mémoires” du steur 
B. sur Vempire du Grand Mogol (1671), mais aussi un Abrégé de la philosophie de 
Gassendi (1678) et des Doutes sur quelques chapitres de l’Abrégé (1682) qui 
utilisent aussi ses expériences orientales. 

Chapelle demande dans une lettre 4 Bernier du “nouveau,” c’est-a-dire 
quelles nouvelles idées lui sont venues en Asie et quelles sont les pensées 
que lui a inspiré son long voyage aux Indes. Mais le “questionnement” 
compte finalement plus pour lui que les “idées,” dans la mesure ou il per- 
met de fonder la pensée sur des indéterminations et rendre illusoire toute 
“réponse” prétendument nouvelle: 


Ce n’est pas aussi que je prétende avec tout ce Préambule en style 
Asiatique, avoir trouvé de nouvelles raisons dans les Indes; ne vous 
attendez a rien moins qu’a cela; je desespere presque aussi bien que 
Ciceron, que les hommes puissent jamais nen trouver sur cette matiere au 
dela de ce qui s’y est trouve. (cité par Darmon 142) 


Selon J.-Ch. Darmon, Bernier pense “son propre dépassement sur le 
mode d’un: ‘comment imaginer que[...]?””: 


L’imagination du destinataire, Chapelle, est sans cesse sollicitée: elle saisira 
les images-signes de ce qu’elle ne peut par elle-méme interpréter. Aussi 
faudrait-il s’attarder sur les nombreuses formulations ou le verbe “imagi- 
ner” hésite entre un sens pleinement positif (tel théoréme d’Euclide, tel 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 121 


poéme de Virgile montrent ce que peut l’4me humaine) et un sens négatif: 
ce qui n’est pas de l’ordre du corps ne peut étre représenté qu’en négatif. 


(Darmon 130) 


L’art d’argumenter de Bernier repose sur une “rhétorique orientant 
imagination de V’interlocuteur dans un sens plutot que dans l’autre,” ex- 
plique J.-Ch. Darmon (146) en révélant souvent un “conflit stylistique entre 
les exigences esthétiques de la forme épistolaire,” nécessaire pour persuader 
son interlocuteur, “et le fonds érudit ot elle puise sa substance.” L’abandon, 
relatif, de Pimagination selon Bernier 


se meut dans le paradoxe de devoir “réfléchir,” par interferences, sur ce 
qui en l’'4me échappe 4 toute saisie directe: “Choses réelles, quoique 
étranges” (v. 230).(Darmon 130) 


Dans les récits de voyages authentiques, la réflexion sur la nature 
humaine prend souvent au départ la forme d’une réflexion sur les animaux- 
machines, dans la mesure ot |’Autre? est la plupart du temps animalisé ou 
infantilisé.3 La question de l’ame des bétes est particuliérement a la mode 
dans les années 1680. En 1683, Michel Boutauld écrit dans Le Théologien dans 
les conversations avec les Sages et les Grands du monde: 


La question était celle qu’on agite aujourd’hui en plusieurs écoles, si les 
bétes ont quelque sorte de raisonnement, ou s’il n’y a que le seul instinct 
qui les gouverne. (cité par Deloffre in Challe I, 242) 


Les partisans des 4mes des bétes étaient tous plus ou moins tentés par 
le panthéisme et le pythagorisme. Challe n’en est pas éloigné. 

On se souvient en effet de Challe développant dans la version im- 
primée de son Journal d’un voyage fait aux Indes Orientales en 1721 le récit des 
soins apportés 4 une guenon blessée, qui émeut tout l’équipage et se ter- 
mine tragiquement, mais qui est absent du manuscrit original. Le passage 
sous-tend une critique de la médecine, développe une réflexion sur les ani- 
maux-machines, remet en cause le cogito cartésien, et faire l’éloge de la sen- 


2. Voir Cecilia Rizza, “La notion d’autre chez quelques écrivains libertins,” [in] Heyndels 
Ralph et Woshinsky Barbara éd., L’Amtre au XVII siécle, Actes du 4° colloque du Centre 
International de Rencontres sur le XVII¢ siécle, University of Miami, 23-25 avril 1998, Brbdo 
17, n°117 (Tubingen, Gunter Narr Verlag, 1999), p. 205-212. 


3. Voir mon article: “Le regard sur Autre et le regard de l’Autre dans quelques récits de 
voyages francais ultramarins du XVII¢ siécle”, Congrés international organisé par le Centro 
Interuniversitario di Ricerche sul “Viaggio in Italia”, in Lo sguardo che viene di lontano: Valterita e 
le sue letture, 25/26/27 mars 1999, (Turin, CIRVI, 2001), II, 635-676. 


127 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


sibilité et de l'instinct maternel. Relisons sa réflexion concernant les ani- 
maux-machines: 


Que le lecteur raisonne la-dessus tant qu’il lui plaira: je laisse le champ 
libre 4 sa physique & sa métaphysique. Qu’il mette d’accord s’il peut 
Aristote, Pline, Descartes, Rohault, Gassendi, La Chambre, & tous les 
autres qui ont donné sur les animaux leurs visions pour des vérités. Qu’ll 
me donne, a moi, un systéme juste de leur instinct; qu’il me montre une 
différence juste, sensible & palapable de cet instinct avec la raison de 
homme; qu’il me prouve que les animaux ne sont que des étres maténels 
et des machines; qu’il me prouve qu’ils ne pensent pas, donc qu’ils ne sont 
pas; en un mot, que le lecteur les définisse comme il lui plaira, je l’en laisse 
le maitre; mais, 4 mon égard, je n’en croirai ni plus ni moins que ce que 


jen crois. (Challe II, 67) 


La remise en cause du cogito et la défense des ames des bétes sous-tend 
en fait une réflexion sur la nature humaine. On retrouve cette réflexion 
quelques pages plus loin, 4 propos de rats, cette fois. A bord de ’Ecueil, des 
ceufs manquent dans un réduit fermé 4 clef et une enquéte découvre que les 
voleurs sont trois gros rats, qui ont mis au point une habile et dextre straté- 
gie pour dérober chaque jour trois ceufs, “chacun le sien.” Challe en 
conclut: 


Voila ce que j’ai vu la nuit derniére du jeudi 23 a aujourd’hui 24 novembre 
1690. Qu’on nomme cela raison, instinct ou mouvement nécessaire d’une 
machine; qu’on dise que c’est une fable; qu’on dise avec l’'Italien: Non e 
vero, ma bene trovato; je le répéte encore, cela m’est trés indifférent: 1 
suffit pour moi que j’aie vu. Fides ex auditu, certitudo ex visu, dit VEvangile. Je 
suis dans le cas: je l’ai vu; par conséquent je suis convaincu qu'il est vrai. 
Mais si les bétes ne pensent point, et par conséquent qu’elles ne soient 
rien? J’avoue que Descartes me choque avec sa définition: Je pense, donc 
je suis. I] est certain que, si les bétes avaient pu avoir connaissance de ce 
ridicule syllogisme & qu’elles eussent pu se faire entendre, elles lui auraient 
pu répondre: Nous pensons, donc nous sommes. Si ces bétes ne sont que 
des machines, sans raison, sans aucun langage entre elles pour s’expliquer 
leurs pensées l’une a l’autre, comment ont fait ces rats pour convenir entre 
eux de la maniére de voler ces ceufs & de les emporter sans les casser? 
Combien la justice humaine sacrifie-t-elle tous les jours de bandits & de 
voleurs, dont les vols ne sont ni si bien raisonnés ni si bien concertés? La 
justice ne les punit pourtant pas comme bétes, ni comme machines. 
L’homme ne reconnaitra-t-il jamais son ridicule orgueil, assez vain pout le 
pousser a vouloir connaitre Dieu lui-méme? Malheureux que nous 
sommes, nous ne nous connaissons pas nous-mémes, & plus malheureux 
encore, de ce que nous ne cherchons point 4 nous connaitre. (Challe IJ, 
75-76) 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 123 


Challe réfute ici curieusement Descartes en citant les Ecritures, ce qui 
peut sembler retors pour un libertin. Mais la méme réflexion revient sou- 
vent dans le Journal, alors que les références religieuses s’estompent, comme 
si, ainsi que lécrit F. Deloffre, “au fur et a mesure que le voyage avance, 
Challe [faisait] moins de lectures pieuses” (Challe II, 287). La réflexion sur 
les animaux-machines aboutit au “connais-toi toi-méme” de Socrate et a un 
questionnement sur la justice humaine. Derriére les remarques sur la nature 
animale, on trouve ainsi toute une problématisation sur la nature humaine 
et sur les conséquences que peut avoir sa définition en ce qui concerne les 
relations intersubjectives et des notions fondamentales comme la justice. 

L’analogie entre les “sauvages” et les betes est rendue possible par le 
fait que les libertins, aprés Charron et Montaigne, n’admettent des bétes aux 
hommes qu’une distinction de degré et un étroit “cousinage”. La Mothe le 
Vayer précise en effet: «parce que de la cruauté envers les bétes on passe 
aisément a celle qui va contre les hommes» (cité par F. Charles-Daubert 
322). Ces récits font en fait penser au passage connu du Dzscours a Mme de 
La Sabhére, les deux rats, le renard et Poeuf. (vv. 179-237). Selon J.-Ch. 
Darmon, 


Le spectre de l’animal-machine dévoile [...] les périls d’un excés de 
distinction. I] marque comme les “limites de l’interprétation” de ’humain 
par lui-méme. Il y a apparemment symétrie, sur la scéne de la pensée, 
entre deux périls: 

— un pénil “libertin,” qui consiste a affirmer qu'il n’y a, entre animal et 
homme, que des variations qui sont de l’ordre du plus et du moins 
(Abregé, V1, 214-215); 

— un péril “cartésien,” qui prétend se présenter comme la seule réponse 
théologiquement forte 4 ce genre de thése dangereuse pour le dogme de 
Pimmortalité de ’4me humaine. La théorie des animaux-machines exclu- 
rait alors toutes les positions autres, intermédiaires, comme faibles et 
ambigués. 


Le sous-chapitre “Si les Brutes sont de pures machines,” en appendice 
de la partie de lAbrégé de Bernier glosant Gassendi, consacrée a l’im- 
mortalité de l’4me, est “l’exact symétrique”(Darmon 140) de la lettre a 
Monsieur Chapelle envoyée de “Shiraz en Perse” datée du 10 juin 1668. 
Reprenant les théses “espagnoles” de Descartes, Bernier déplace le débat 
sur le plan théologique: 


Ils pretendent donc apres un certain Espagnol nommé Perera, que si on 
admet que les Brutes pensent, ou mesme qu’elles ayent du sentiment, 
quelque grossier ou imparfait qu’il puisse estre, l’on ne satisfera jamais aux 
objections de ceux qui veulent que Ame des Brutes, et celles des 
Hommes ne different que selon le plus, et le moins; c’est pourquoy pour 


124 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


se tirer tout d’un coup d’embarras, et sans considerer si le remede qu’'ils 
apportent n’est point pire que le mal, ils soutiennent avec cet Autheur que 
les Brutes ne sont que de pures Machines [...]. Certainement il seroit a 
souhaiter qu’on put bien clairement demontrer ce qu’avance Perera, et ses 
sectateurs; parce que cela etabliroit une difference tres considerable entre 
Ame des Brutes, et celles des Hommes; mais quel moyen de demontrer 
une chose qui paroit si manifestement fausse ? Et qui est-ce qui en pourra 
jamais estre persuade? (Abrégé VI, 219-220) 


Selon J.-Ch Darmon, l’argumentation de Bernier consiste 4 montrer 
que cette symétrie est un trompe-l’ceil et que ce trompe I’ceil est dangereux: 


c’est vouloir fonder cette différence, c’est-a-dire la spiritualité de Ame 
humaine, sur l’insensibilité des Brutes, ou ce qui est le mesme, c’est 
vouloir fonder un article de Foy sur un principe qu’ils ne prouvent par 
aucune raison, qui paroit evidemment faux, qu’ils ne persuaderont jamais 
a personne, et dont ils ne sont apparemment point persuadez eux mesmes 


[...]. (Abrégé VI, 219-220) 


Bernier finit par méditer sur ce qu’est la “proportion,” proportion entre 
corps et entendement humain, entre le corporel et le senti, etc. Que fait la 
“différence spécifique” de la nature humaine? Bernier aboutit finalement a 
ce que J.-Ch. Darmon appelle un “vertige sganarellien”: 


[...] a la suite du vertige ou l’emporte cette question, Bernier semble-t-il, a 
la fin de cette parenthése sur les animaux-machines, perd la maitrise de cet 
équilibre subtil entre rhétorique sceptique et rhétonque empiriste qui est le 
propre du probabilisme gassendien: la premiére recouvre soudain la se- 
conde d’une nappe d’obscunté, et dans l’ordre méme du vraisemblable, la 
“sagesse mystérieuse des Anciens” lemporte “en vrac” contre lar- 
gumentaire cartésien, juxtaposant et brouillant diverses doctrines (ato- 
misme lucrétien, animisme d’inspiratiun pythagoricienne ou stoiciennes), 
toutes moins invraisemblables que celle de Descartes. (Darmon 139) 


Sganarelle, en effet, dans la scéne 1 de l’acte III de Dom Juan, cherche a 
démontrer “qu'il y a quelque chose d’admirable dans Phomme” avant de 
tomber et avant que son raisonnement ne se casse le nez, comme le lui fait 
remarquer Dom Juan. Le dramaturge écrit aussi que “tout en raiscnnant,” 
ils sont “égarés”: “je crois que nous sommes égarés,” labsence de con- 
struction pronominale montre bien la corrélation faite entre le raisonne- 
ment et l’errance, comme si le voyage libertin vers les abstractions défen- 
dues ne pouvait donner lieu qu’a une perte de repéres, directement tra- 
duisible sur le plan géographique. C’est le raisonnement qui égare, ce ne 
sont pas les libertins qui s’égarent, et, vice versa, le voyage spatial méne le 
raisonnement hors des sentiers battus de la foi et de ’orthodoxie. 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 125 


Un des grands sujets de débats entre La Mothe Le Vayer et Bernier 
porte sur la nature de l’ame. A la veille de sa mort, selon R. Pintard, La 
Mothe Le Vayer demande: 


“Quelles nouvelles avez-vous du Grand Mogol?”’, [...], et son ame 
d’infatiguable curieux, de tranquille observateur des contradictions hu- 
maines, de moraliste désabusé et de philosophe sceptique, passe dans cette 
question. (Pintard 432) 


J.-Ch. Darmon a bien montré comment Bernier utilise le gassendisme 
pour analyser la décadence des Etats du Grand Mongol ainsi que l’usage de 
Pépicurisme dans la perception libertine des terres étrangéres et exotiques. 
Sa méthode critique d’aperception du monde et d’intelligibilité fine de la 
réalité concréte trouve son fondement dans un scepticisme philosophique et 
scientifique. Chapelain, dans sa premiere lettre a Bernier, lui confie une vé- 
ritable liste de choses 4 voir, comme un programme d’étude (cité par Fois- 
sier 70): 


enrichissés vous [...] de toutes les lumiéres qui vous sera possible, soit 
concernant l’estat politique de ce grand Empire, soit concernant celui de 
la nature et des arts qui y sont differentes des nostres. (Chapelain IT, 168) 


Le projet est global, la bipartition entre la politique et la nature des 
choses n’est qu’apparente: l’un méne toujours a l’autre et vice versa: 


Dans estat politique, je comprends lhistoire et les révolutions de ce 
Royaume [...]. Pour cela il seroit bon que vous vous rendissiés habile dans 
la langue du pays que je m’imagine estre la persienne [...]. Il seroit bon 
encore que vous recouvrassiés tous les livres principaux et estimés parmi 
ces peuples, d’ou vous tireriés de notables instructions pour toutes leurs 
sortes de connoissances. (Chapelain 169) 


Chaque lettre de Bernier s’adresse a un destinataire différent et lui 
consacre un sujet différent: de Delhi, il écrit a la Mothe Le Vayer (premier 
juillet 1663), de Shiraz en Perse a Chapelain (4 octobre 1667), etc. A Colbert 
il explique la cause de la décadence économique du grand Mogol, a 
Chapelain il montre les “superstitions, étranges facons de faire, & doctrines 
des Indous ou Gentils de l’Hindostan,” a Chapelle il mentionne son 
intention de “se mettre a l’étude sur quelques points concernant la doctrine 
des Atomes & sur la nature de Entendement humain.” Bernier juge encore 
la nature humaine selon la théorie des climats. Inspirée d’Aristote et 
esquissée au cinquiéme chapitre du Methodus ad facilem historianum cognitionem 
(1556) de Jean Bodin, c’est surtout le chapitre du “Reglement qu'il faut tenir 
pour accommoder la forme de la République a la diversité des hommes et le 


126 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


moyen de connaitre le naturel des peuples [...] et la différence des hommes 
montagnards 4 ceux qui demeurent en la plaine, ou dans les lieux 
marécageux ou battus des vents impétueux” des Szx ores de la République de 
Jean Bodin, qui expose la maniére dont la variété des tempéraments dépend 
de celle des températures. Au cours de son voyage dans la province de 
Cachemire, Francois Bernier a la révélation du bien-fondé de cette théorie. 
De plus, ses raisonnements fonctionnent trés souvent selon le principe de la 
comparaison de linconnu au connu, qui fait partie des régles hodé- 
poriques.* Ainsi, le point le plus intéressant de sa réflexion intervient quand 
il parvient a surmonter ce procédé pour s’éloigner de la dichotomie séparant 
POrient de ’'Occident, et ne voir dans lunivers plus qu’un grand tout, 
enrichi par sa diversité. Comme le déduit S. Foissier, “’emploi quasi- 
systématique du systéme comparatif permet donc a Bernier d’assimiler la 
différence mogole” (114). 

L’aveu d’ignorance n’est bien qu’une étape dans une recherche dia- 
lectique de la vérité. Pour reprendre les catégories de S. Foissier, le “style 
descriptif” est au service du “style décriptif’ et met en valeur la “dioptrique 
de la vision” du voyageur. Le doute sceptique, comme J’écrit Sylvia Murr, 
permet d’amener la certitude que “tout ce qui est et tout ce qui advient aux 
Etats du Mogol peut étre pensé donc traduit et expliqué” (241). 

Bernier est en quéte des causes afin d’enrichir rationnellement le savoir 
de Phomme et le tirer de l’obscurantisme. Ses descriptions prennent la 
forme d’une “science des symptomes, une science humaine empirique — ba- 
sée sur l’expérience (au sens scientifique du terme) du voyage — et théo- 
rique” (Foissier 123). 

Mais, curieusement, la découverte du Cachemire, qui constitue l’abou- 
tissement du voyage de Bernier, est interprétée selon le mythe biblique de la 
Terre Promise. Les hyperboles et les comparaisons ménent toutes a faire du 
Cachemire “le paradis terrestre des Indes,’ comme le dit clairement |’in- 
titulé de sa neuvieme lettre 4 Monsieur de Merveilles. Comme Bougainville 
a Tahiti un siécle plus tard, Bernier en 1664 fait du Cachemire un nouvel 
Eden, une curieuse utopie décrite selon la structure narrative et idéologique 
des utopies de la fin du siécle, a la maniére de Veiras et Tyssot de Patot, et 
trés orientée philosophiquement, une utopie épicurienne mais qui n’est 
hélas pas peuplée par des Philosophes du Jardin... Le Cachemire apparait en 


4. Voir la these de Sophie-Linon Chipon, Gallia Onentalis, a paraitre dans la collection Imago 
Mund des P.U.P.S. Voir aussi ma these, Ie partie, “L’art d’écrire le voyage.” 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 127 


effet dans les lettres de voyage de Bernier comme une Fable du Monde a la 
maniére de celles que privilégie tant Gassendi.° 

En fin de compte, tous les voyageurs, quelle que soit leur confession, 
sont tous a la recherche de la nature humaine originelle préadamique. Ber- 
nier se rend bien compte que paraitre trop “charmé de Cachemire” est une 
démarche peu libertine. I] applique alors son scepticisme aux fables in- 
diennes sur l’origine du royaume de Cachemire. Pourfendeur du surnaturel, 
Bernier s’applique 4 dénoncer toute forme de superstition: impertinences 
anatomiques, médicales, astronomiques, abus des Brahmanes, duplicité du 
clergé des “gentils,” crémation des veuves lui font détester “cette horrible 
religion.” 

L’ambiguité des messages de Bernier vient en fait de ’emploi du genre 
épistolaire: il ne plait et n’instruit bien évidemment pas de la méme facon 
les représentants du pouvoir royal et ses amis libertins. S. Murr montre que 
le double projet de Bernier suppose souvent une double écriture, un double 
sens et donc des doubles lectures, parfois paradoxales. Bernier brise en effet 
les régles hodéporiques observées dans les autres relations authentiques: pas 
de structure ternaire aller-séjour-retour, pas de continuité chronologique, 
pas de description continue de villes comme Surate, etc. Comme chez La 
Mothe le Vayer, litinéraire n’est jamais vraiment précisément décrit: les 
libertins se passionnent moins pour les faits que pour les idées et s’in- 
téressent plus aux hommes qu’aux paysages, tout en brouillant aussi les 
pistes par simple désir sceptique. Bernier ne présente pas stricto sensu un récit 
de voyage. Son savoir et son expérience lui font espérer une pension du roi 
ou un poste officiel d’orientaliste. Il trouve donc dans l’éclatement des pro- 
cédés hodéporiques habituels le moyen de complaire, sans se compro- 
mettre, en méme temps aux libertins érudits et au pouvoir représenté par 
Colbert et Chapelain. D’ou l’ambiguité d’un discours parfois paradoxal, qui 
s’abstient de conclure ou de prendre parti. Bernier est 4 la fois un narrateur 
“démiurge,” lecteur ironique d’un monde qu'il cherche a organiser en lui 
donnant un sens gassendiste, et un témoin courtisan. Ses récits sont donc 
bien le lieu d’une polyphonie ot rhétorique et intentions s’opposent parfois. 
Comme Boulliau, mais plus subtilement encore, Bernier ne contrarie pas 
ouvertement |’orthodoxie chrétienne, et il fustige moins l’Eglise catholique 
que ses membres, qui ne valent pas mieux que les brahmanes hindous. Plus 
féroce contre la corruption des chrétiens que contre la chrétienté, la relation 
de Bernier n’est donc pas subversive. Ainsi que l’écrit S. Murr, elle “ne 


5. Pour plus de détails concernant cette analyse, cf. mon article “F. Bernier ou la mise en 
scéne épistolaire d'un Cachemire épicurien,” colloque “Imago Mundi, Lettres et Images 
dailleurs,” Chateau de Grignan et CRLV, 19-20 octobre 2001, a paraitre. 


128 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


port[e] pas entre une thése et son contraire, mais sur les divers degrés de 
Péloge, comme par effet de moire” (280). 

L’influence de Bernier sur les auteurs classiques est grande: il initie La 
Fontaine 4 la philosophie de Gassendi, — son Abrégé influence le fabuliste 
dans le second recueil des Fabks (Livres VII a XI, 1678) —, Louis Racine 
écrit que Bernier “le fameux Voyageur” est ’ami commun de Racine et de 
Boileau... © Sa place dans la société montre bien que si certains comme La 
Bruyére le jugent corrompu, ses réflexions sur la nature humaine sont des 
remises en cause toutes relatives, qui suggérent plus qu’elles n’attaquent 
vraiment. Alors que les voyageurs libertins camouflent donc encore la 
portée de leurs réflexions critiques dans une rhétorique subtile, oscillant 
entre encomiastie et paradoxes, les auteurs de voyages imaginaires, eux, 
n’ont plus ces contraintes. 

Au théatre, le plus grand des libertins est sans conteste le Dom Juan de 
Moliére: son voyage en boucle autour de la Sicile est un voyage libertin a la 
recherche d’une nature humaine érotisée et du mystére de lidentité fémi- 
nine. Alexandre des cceurs, sa philosophie du changement (“tout le plasir de 
Pamour est dans le changement,” I, 2) ’'empéche de “demeurer” longtemps 
en un méme lieu. Il réve “d’autres mondes, pour y pouvoir étendre [sles 
conquétes amoureuses.” Son catalogue remplace la sainte Trinité par une 
équation libertine au sens érotique et scientifique: “Je crois que deux et 
deux sont quatre, Sganarelle, et que quatre et quatre sont huit ” (III, 1). 
Elvire, la jeune fiancée, Charlotte et Mathurine, sont quatre, et addi- 
tionnables 4 linfinii A la scéne suivant la déclaration de cette “belle 
croyance” et ces “beaux articles de foi,” selon l’expression de Sganarelle, 
Dom Juan rencontre le pauvre, qui se propose de leur “enseigner le che- 
min”: égarés par leurs raisonnement, nous venons de le voir, le libertin et 
Sganarelle rencontrent un ermite apotre susceptible de transformer le 
voyage libertin en voyage chrétien. Mais Dom Juan, incapable de triompher 
de la morale du pauvre, donne le louis d’or “pour ’amour de Phumanité.” 
Les interprétations de ce passage sont nombreuses:’ cri victorieux du liber- 
tin satanique qui a prouvé l’absence de Dieu par imperfection du monde, 
par la misére ot croupit ’homme en priére et qui dresse pour remplacer un 
Dieu absent un idéal nouveau, une morale faite par homme pour 
homme? Ou parodie sacrilége de l’expression chrétienne “pour l’'amour de 
Dieu” de celui qui est vaincu, lancant le louis comme une insulte pour ne 
pas perdre la face? Quoi qu’il en soit, la substitution de Dieu par ’humanité 


6. Louis Racine, Mémoires, in Georges Forestier éd., Racine. GEuvres completes (Paris, Gallimard, 
1999), I, 1156. 


7. Voir Jacques Morel, “La scéne du pauvre,” in Mokére / Dom Juan, Pierre Ronzeaud éd., 
(Paris, Klincksieck, 1993), p. 77-82. 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 129 


dit bien la négation de Dieu et la célébration de la nature humaine. Dom 
Juan court alors 4 un autre combat, concret cette fois, mais ot il prétend 
encore rétablir la justice d’une partie “trop inégale” (“un homme attaqué par 
trois autres”): toujours en mouvement, ses voyages sont ceux d’un justicier 
libertin désireux de réhabiliter la nature humaine dans sa justice et dans ses 
désirs, jusqu’a la Contre-Céne finale, qui transforme le voyage libertin en 
voyage infernal. 

Symbolique, le voyage libertin aboutit en effet souvent chez Satan. C’est 
ce qui arrive aussi au héros de Cyrano aprés ses aventures lunaires. Apres 
avoir substitué l’éloge libertin traditionnel des ames des bétes par un éloge 
du chou comme démonstration de la vie sensitive des plantes, ses entretiens 
de la derniére partie du livre avec un jeune homme le poussent a une série 
de négations: la négation de l’immortalité de l’ame, la négation du miracle, la 
négation de la spiritualité de l’ame, la négation de la résurrection des corps, 
puis la négation finale, celle de l’existence de Dieu, qui s’accompagne de la 
réfutation du pari. La conclusion ne peut que tomber: le jeune homme 
“négateur,” et le héros avec lui, sont emportés dans un voyage diabolique 
par “Celui qui nie tout,” selon la future formule faustienne de Geethe. Le 
retour en Italie, siége des idées orthodoxes, et l’action de grace lors du re- 
tour en France sont hautement parodiques et feignent de figurer un retour 
conforme au genre hodéporique et 4 la raison, mais le voyage diabolique a 
fait son chemin libertin dans l’esprit du lecteur. 

Enumérant les tropes sceptiques, J.-Ch. Darmon montre que le 
dixiéme, “sur les morales, les coutumes, les lois, les croyances légendaires et 
les convictions dogmatiques” a toujours eu des affinités “avec l’économie et 
la poétique du récit de Voyage” et vaut “pour définir la nature d’un étre” 
(240-242). Selon J.-Ch. Darmon en effet, le lien entre la reprise du genre 
hodéporique et la portée libertine du traitement imaginaire est primordiale: 


Le mouvement est aux yeux de Cyrano essentiel pour représenter l’infin1, 
le rendre sensible en tant qu’horizon (d’ou importance de la forme 
littéraire du récit de voyage). Aussi la pensée de linfinité de l’espace 
conduit-elle directement a celle de l’éternité du mouvement qui le 
parcourt (“et il en va éternellement de cette sorte”), a un voyage 
imaginaire virtuel, indéfiniment prolongé. (215) 


Et O. Bloch rappelle que le terme “éternellement” révéle “la distorsion 
de Vinfinité spatiale, 4 laquelle paraitraient devoir d’abord conduire les 
considérations dont on part, en une infinité temporelle, qui permet a Cyra- 
no d’introduire la thése impie” (cité par Darmon, p 215 n 3, p. 215). 

Cyrano et Gabriel de Foigny ont la particularité de mettre en scéne dans 
leurs voyages imaginaires des procés cherchant a prouver que leurs person- 
nages, Dyrcona et Sadeur, ne sont pas des hommes. Ce sont eux qui réflé- 


130 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


chissent vraiment 4 la notion de nature humaine. Pour Dyrcona, il s’agit de 
prouver aux Oiseaux qu’il n’est pas humain pour correspondre a leur na- 
ture; pour Sadeur, il s’agit au contraire de prouver qu’il est homme aux 
Hermaphrodites qui pensent le contraire. 

Cyrano met en place une réflexion sur la nature humaine 4 travers les 
deux procés que doit subir le héros dans la Lune d’abord puis dans le Soleil. 
Décrété d’abord singe, Dyrcona est accouplé avec l’autre singe qu’est censé 
étre Espagnol de Godwin: 


Sitost qu’il m’apperceut, il m’aborda par un Criado de [vjouestra mercede. 
Je luy riposté sa reverence a peu pres en mesme termes. Mais helas, ilz ne 
nous eurent pas plustost veu parler ensemble, qu’ilz creurent tous le 
prejugé veritable; et cette conjuncture n’avoit garde de produire un autre 
succés, car celuy de tous les assistans qui opinoit pour nous avec plus de 
faveur protestoit que nostre entretien estoit un grognement que la joye 
d’estre rejoints par un instinct naturel nous faisoit bourdonner. (Cyrano 


89-90) 


Le jugement repose sur un “préjugé” et déclare Phomme “singe” en 
observant ses instincts primitifs, ici le rituel des retrouvailles entre voya- 
geurs. Enfermés dans une loge exposée aux yeux des curieux désireux de 
voir ces “singularités,” dans un parfait renversement, il n’est question par- 
tout que des “bestes du rot”: 


le roy et la reine prenoient [eux-mesmes asses souvent] la peine de me 
taster le ventre pour connoistre si je ne m’emplissois point, car iz 
brusloient . d’une envie extraordinaire d’avoir de la race de ces petits 
animaux. [...] Aussi tost, les nouvelles coururent par tout le royaume 
qu’on avoit trouvé deux hommes sauvages, plus petits que les autres a 
cause des mauvaises nourritures que la solitude nous avoit fourni, et qui, 
par un deffault de la semence de leurs peres, n’avoient pas eu les jambes 
de devant asses fortes pour s’appuyer dessus. (Cyrano 108) 


Les prétres déclarent néanmoins impie de penser que ces “bétes,” ou 
plutét ces “monstres,” peuvent étre de la méme espéce que les Sélénites: 


la nature, en ostant les deux piedz 4 ces monttres, les a mis en estat de ne 
pouvoir eschapper a nostre justice. (110) 


Puis le procés sur la “nature” du narrateur conclut a son statut d’oiseau, 
“perroquet plumé,” a partir du fait que “non plus qu’un oiseau [il] n’avoi{[t] 
que deux piedz” (111) et il est mis en cage. Ayant appris la langue des 
Sélénites, il développe alors ses “conceptions”: 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 131 


Desja les compagnies ne s’entretenoient plus que de la gentillesse de mes 
bons mots, et l’estime qu’on faisoit de mon esprit vint jusques la que le 
clergé fut contraint de faire publier un arrest, par lequel on deffendoit de 
croire que j’eusse de la raison, avec un commandement tres exprés a 
touttes personnes de quelque qualité et condition qu’elles fussent, de 
s'imaginer, quoy que je peusse faire de spirituel, que c’estoit l’instinct qui 
me le faisoit faire. (111-112) 


Réduire l’esprit 4 un réflexe instinctif est une maniére de nier l’humanité 
et de la réduire a l’animalité, argument de Sepulveda lorsqu’il s’agit d’ex- 
pliquer le rire des Incas 4 la Controverse de Valladolid l’a montré... La pre- 
miére audience du tribunal décide donc 


que je n’estois pas un homme, mais possible quelque espece d’austruche, 
veu que je portois comme elle la teste droicte; de sorte qu'il fut ordonné a 
loiseleur de me reporter en cage. (114) 


Sauvé par lintervention d’un Sélénite qui fonde toute son argu- 
mentation sur le fait que, posé dans la “catégorie des bestes,” le héros ne 
peut pas avoir de raison: “les brutes n’agissent que par un instinct de 
nature” (126). Il est donc vain de vouloir “assujettir a la raison des animaux 
qui n’en ont pas usage” (126-127). 

Le héros est finalement déclaré “homme” et condamné aprés la troi- 
siéme audience 4 “l’amande honteuse,” c’est-a-dire la rétractation publique 
de ses convictions. Cyrano parodie ainsi les punitions orientales affigées par 
exemple aux iles Maldives, telles que les rapporte Pyrard de Laval,’ mais 
aussi l’amende honorable et les confessions publiques pénitentielles. La 
liberté d’étre humain ne s’accompagne pas de la liberté de penser, comme 
nous pouvons le voir aussi chez les Hermaphrodites de Foigny. 

Mais avant d’aborder l’utopie de Foigny, voyons comment Cyrano met 
également en scéne un autre “procez criminel,” celui de son héros jugé au 
Tribunal des Oiseaux du Soleil. Il lui appartient cette fois de faire la preuve 
qu’il n’est pas “homme,” c’est-a-dire “dégradé de la raison,” mais bien un 
étre raisonnable dont le comportement n’est pas le fruit de l’instinct mais de 
la raison. Il tente donc de démontrer qu’il est singe, ce qui représente un 
moindre mal, alors que dans Les Estats et Empires de la Lune il essayait 
précisément de démonter qu’il n’était pas ce primate. Dyrcona est alors 
défini comme une “pauvre beste n’ayant pas comme [eux] usage de la 
raison.” Son avocat dit en effet: 


8. Pyrard De Laval, Voyage aux Indes orientales (1601-1611) (Paris, Chandeigne, 1998): “Si on a 
commis quelque crime contre la loi, il faut faire publiquement une maniére de repentance et 
comme une amende honorable” (I, 210). 


132 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


émeu de pitié, j’avois entrepris la cause pour cette malheureuse beste; mais 
sur le poinct de la plaider, il m’est venu un remors de conscience, et 
comme une voix secrette, qui m’a defendu d’accomplir une action si 
detestable.’ 


Le voici donc transposé sous le regard des oiseaux comme un monstre 
privé de plumes, de facon a dénoncer l’anthropocentrisme 4 travers un 
ludique “ornithocentrisme” (Darmon 236). Face a un “Monstre tel que 
?’Homme” aucune défense n’est moralement possible. Le procés est “cri- 
minel.” Selon J.-Ch. Darmon, Pemploi du terme “monstre,” dans le 
contexte parodique général, montre comment 


en usant et abusant de ce terme pour désigner la Nature en ce qu'elle a 
dinoui ou d’inexpliqué, l’écrivain poursuit de page en page une érosion 
insolente et un évidement sémantique du terme. (235) 


Parallélement, le voyage des atomes dans le Soleil “intervient comme 
un lexique nomade excédant largement le cadre de l’épicurisme stricto 
sensu” (Darmon 229). La thése atomiste de la nature humaine est largement 
dépassée par une dialectique sans cesse rebondissante. La nature humaine 
n’est telle qu’en tant qu’elle participe 4 “Ame du Monde” et a une vision 
unitaire de la Nature, dont la langue est aussi bien la “communication 
fondamentale entre toutes les créatures” que “le signe de la vérité de ce qui 
est communiqué” (Darmon 245): 


Sous les arlequinades des variations “sceptiques” et “artificialistes” la 
fiction de la langue-matrice ferait donc entrevoir, dans L’Autre Monde, ce 
que Clément Rosset nommerait un “référentiel naturaliste”: la Nature 
serait cette instance qui appartient a tous et a laquelle tous appartiennent, 
excédant trés largement la Raison, elle se rapporterait a “Tinstinct” (246) 


Foigny, lui, souligne souvent l’infériorité de Sadeur, “demi homme” par 
rapport aux hommes complets que sont les Hermaphrodites. L’in- 
complétude n’est pas que biologique puisque Sadeur est hermaphrodite, elle 
reléve de V'incapacité de raisonner justement. La nature “demi-humaine” 
parfaite de homme européen, les hermaphrodites la jugent “monstrueuse,” 
comme l’unisexualité: “Tous les Australiens ont deux sexes: & s’il arrive 
qu’un enfant naisse avec un seul, ils létouffent comme un monstre” 


(Foigny 83). 


9 . Les Estats et Empires du Soleil, Jacques Prévot éd., in Ewvres completes, (Paris, Belin, 1977), p. 
473. 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 133 


Eux-mémes pourtant, dotés d’une “espéce de bras” sur les hanches, 
correspondent aux critéres de la monstruosité. Pronant le naturel et la 
taison, c’est avant tout la possession d’un corps aux normes, a leurs normes 
plus précisément, qui définit leur identité: 


La nudité de tout le corps leur est si naturel: quils ne peuvent souffnr 
qu’on parle de les couvrir, sans se declarer ennemy de la nature & 
contraire 4 la raison. (Foigny 84) 


Mais ce corps doit aussi aller de pair avec une raison qui sache rester 
pudique: Sadeur commence 4 étre mis “en horreur entre les Australiens” 
lorsqu’il pose trop de question et ne respecte pas le silence sur le mythe des 
origines. Plusieurs hermaphrodites en concluent qu’il est un “demi homme” 
(85) et veulent se défaire de lui. Sadeur reconnait finalement leur procédé: 
“c’étoit avec justice qu’ils ne nous regardoient que comme des demi 
hommes”.(85) Un vieillard est donc chargé d’initier Sadeur a la raison 
australienne. Pour sa défense, il plaide une nature inversée, cause de 


tous ses crimes qu'il reconnait: 


comme lorigine de tous ces crimes étoit ma propre nature, [...] si je ne 
Pavois fait, je devrois passer pour dénaturé, et votre raison si clairvoyante 
m’estimeroit justement cruel. 


Le “venerable viellard,” Maitre du troisiéme ordre dans le Heb nommé 
“Suains,” représente la figure du Sage, comme le déduit P. Ronzeaud a 
partir de l’étude de son nom: 


Selon lalphabet austral, les lettres du nom de ce sage vieillard réunissent 
les voyelles symbolisant les trois éléments terrestres (terre, feu, eau) et les 
consonnes désignant le blanc et le noir: preuve de la détention d’un savoir 
total sur les choses d’ici-bas? (86 n. 7) 


Nous avons donc affaire 4 un voyage initiatique, mais initiation est 
libertine, cette fois, et non morale. La symbolisation de la nature 
hermaphrodite est plurielle: mythe platonicien du Banquet, état d’innocence 
biblique, ot Eve nait du flanc d’Adam, discours médical, sectes anabaptistes 
de la Convention fraternelle, monachisme idéal, etc. (84-85 n. 4). A noter 
cependant que le chapitre V s’intitule “De la constitution des Australiens” 
et non “de la nature des Australiens”: comme si la réflexion sur les 
paradoxes de la nature humaine ne pouvaient étre menée qu’a partir de la 
constitution artificielle d’un cas de référence... 

Les libertins tentent ainsi, par le voyage imaginaire, de redéfinir 
homme pour l’amener 4 correspondre 4 la définition idéale d’un étre ra- 
tionnel. Le voyage est donc 4 la fois spatial — il s’agit d’aller vers l’ailleurs 


134 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


pour devenir un autre homme, meilleur intellectuellement — et temporel — il 
s’agit d’aller vers les temps préadamiques de l’age d’or, ot le discours 
religieux sur la nature humaine n’a pas encore détourné ’homme de sa 
nature d’étre rationnel.! 

Le voyage est donc pour les libertins un instrument fondamental du 
“déniaisement” des esprits dans la mesure ou le décalage géographique 
permet un décalage intellectuel lui-méme instrument de vérité. Le projet 
hodéporique libertin est un projet scientifique et philosophique. Comme 
écrit La Mothe le Vayer dans le cinquiéme des Opuscules ou petits Traictex, 
intitulé “Des Voyages et de la descouverte de nouveaux Pais” : 


la connaissance du Monde & des différentes parties de la Terre [est] une 
des plus belles sciences que nous pvissions acquénr, & [...] ceux qui 
contribuent par leurs soins, leurs moyens, ou leurs travaux a la 
perfectionner; [...] rendent presque toujours leur nom immortel."! 


Il résume ainsi la haute considération que portent les libertins aux 
grands voyages. Quand ils ne voyagent pas eux mémes, ils annotent et com- 
mentent la matiére de textes comme le Traité de la navigation de Pierre Ber- 
geron (1629), du Voyage fatct par terre depuis Paris jusques a la Chine du sieur de 
Feynes (1630), des relations du pére Pacifique de Provins (1631) en Perse, 
de Sagard (1632) chez les Hurons, etc. Mais c’est Orient qui a leur préfé- 
rence, et avec le voyage de Bernier ce sont tous leurs réves qui se concré- 
tisent quand la “bibliothéque du voyageur” ne semblait plus suffire. Ils se 
distinguent des marchands en quéte de gains matériels, comme le souligne 
Chapelain, ils veulent “connoistre, comme Ulysse, mores hominum et urbes.” 
(167). Mais, ainsi que l’analyse A. Niderst, les voyageurs qui se sont effec- 
tivement déchristianisés en découvrant la multiplicité des fois et des cultes 
sont rares. La Mothe le Vayer lui-méme, en poussant le roi 4 créer des com- 
pagnies de commerce développe un discours économique et politique loin 
des grands énoncés sceptiques. (McBride 337) L’itinéraire spirituel que préte 
La Bruyére aux vrais voyageurs n’est que théorique: 


Il nous semble en tout cas, que le voyageur décnt par La Bruyére, n’a 
jamais existé. Certains voyageurs lui ressemblent — un peu Bemier, un peu 
Chardin, un peu Regnard. Mais le moraliste en rapprochant les relations 
de voyages si abondantes alors et l'utilisation qu’en faisaient Fonteneile et 


10. Pour un point plus développé sur les liens entre utopies et libertinage, voir Lise 
Leibacher-Ouvrard, Lsbertinage et utopies sous le régne de Louis XIV (Geneve, Paris, Droz, 1989), 
en particulier le chapitre VII “Divertir: voyages et utopies”. 


11. Francois La Mothe Le Vayer, Opuscules ou petits Traidez, V. “Des Voyages et de la 
descouverte de nouveaux Pais”, Paris, A. de Sommaville et A. Courbé, 1643, p. 175-176. 


VOYAGE ET LIBERTINAGE 135 


les siens, a dessiné un étre de raison, une allégorie de la vie intellectuelle de 
la fin du XVII¢ siecle. (Niderst 362) 


Les différentes religions qu’ils découvrent leur révélent surtout les tares 
du christianisme et leur montrent que des grandes nations ont une religion 
respectable qui vaut bien celle du Christ, mais ils ne vont pas facilement 
jusqu’a l’athéisme. Seul La Mothe le Vayer semble vraiment disposé a 
admettre une société d’athées, selon F. Charles-Daubert (324). D’aprés le 
chancelier anglais Bacon, 


athéisme laisse a ’homme le sens, la philosophie, la piété naturelle, les 
lois, la réputation, et tout ce qui peut servir de guide 4 la raison: mais la 
superstition détruit toutes ces choses et s’érige une tyrannie absolue dans 
Pentendement des hommes. C’est pourquoi l’athéisme ne troubla jamais 
les Etats mais il rend ’homme plus prévoyant a soi-méme comme ne 


regardant pas plus loin. i 


En France, Bernier semble bien tenté par le déisme, mais Thévenot 
reste catholique et Chardin protestant, tandis que Bayle choisit le fidéisme 
et Huet oscille entre le scepticisme et le syncrétisme. Les relations servent 
plutot la satire du christianisme en dévoilant luniverselle faiblesse de l’esprit 
humain et en développant le sens de la relativité: A. Niderst rappelle la 
fameuse page des Entretiens sur la pluralité des mondes de Fontenelle, 


truffée de souvenirs de récits de voyages, ou il montre a la marquise tous 
les spectacles qui s’offriraient 4 un observateur suspendu dans le ciel, 
assistant a la rotation de la terre et voyant donc passer sous ses yeux les 
divers continents. (Niderst 361) 


La naissance de la science des religions succéde 4 la foi. Les libertins, 
grace au voyage, récusent surtout argument du “consentement universel” 
(consensu gentium) présupposant l’idée de Dieu présente dans tous les 
hommes, comme le sceau de la divinité. La “lumiére naturelle” ne suffit 
plus a la connaissance de Dieu dont aucun peuple n’aurait été privé, la va- 
riété des religions la bouleverse. Cependant les vraies remises en question 
passent non pas par des voyages authentiques mais par des voyages ima- 
ginaires, véritables reconstructions littéraires 4 portées idéologiques annon- 
cant les philosophes du Siécle des Lumiéres et leurs interrogations sur la 


12. La Mothe Le Vayer cite les Essais de Bacon dans son Dialogue sur le sujet de la Divinite. 
Cité par Francine Charles-Daubert, 324-325. 


136 SYLVIE REQUEMORA 


nature humaine et la folie occidentale. Les machines!3 servant aux voyages, 
comme les machines imaginaires, sont aussi des “machines 4 déniaiser”: 
c’est par elles que voyage et libertinage nment vraiment et que la littérature 
hodéporique est en route vers la Modernité."4 


Université d’Aix-Marseille I 
Ouvrages cités 


Bemier, Francois, Voyage dans les Etats du Grand Mogol, éd. F. Bhattacharya. Paris, 

Fayard, 1981. 
, Mémoires sur l’Empire du Grand Mogol. Paris, Claude Barbin, 1671. 

Challe, Journal d'un voyage fait aux Indes Orientales, éd. F. Deloffre et M. Menemen- 
cioglu. Paris, Mercure de France, 1983. 

Chapelain, Jean, Lettres de Jean Chapelan a l’Académie Francaise, éd. Ph. Tamizey De 
Larroque. Paris, Imprimerie Nationale, 1883. 

Charles-Daubert, Francine, “L’Aménique entre réve et cauchemar dans l’ceuvre de 
F. La Mothe le Vayer” in Rizza 322ss. 

Cyrano de Bergerac, L’Autre Monde ou les Estats et Empires de la Lune, éd. Madeleine 
Alcover. Paris, Champion, 1996. 

Darmon, Jean-Charles, Philosophie épicurienne et hitérature an XVII’ siecle. Etudes sur 
Gassendi, Cyrano de Bergerac, La Fontaine, Saint-Evremond. Paris, PUF, 1998. 

Foigny, Gabriel de. La Terre Australe connue, éd. P. Ronzeaud. Paris, Champion, 
1990. 

Foissier Sébastien, Les Récits du voyage de Francois Bernier: dioptrique de la vision d'un 
voyageur (mémoire de maitrise), Université Paris 1V-Sorbonne, 1993. 

Lucien, Histoire véritable in Pierre Grimal, éd. Romans grecs et latins. Paris, Gallimard, 
1958, 1341-1384. 

McBride, Robert, “La Théorie et la pratique des voyages selon La Mothe le Vayer” 
in Rizza 337ss. 

Murr, Sylvia, “Le Politique ‘au Mogol’ selon Bernier: appareil conceptuel, 
rhétorique stratégique, philosophie morale,” Purusartha, n°13, 1990 

Niderst, Alain. “‘Quelques-uns achévent de se corrompre par de longs voyages...’ 
Voyage et libertinage a la fin du XVIIF siécle” in Rizza 355-362. 

Pintard, René. Le Libertinage érudit dans la premiére moitié du XVII’ siéck. Geneve, 
Slatkine, 1983. 

Rizza, Cecilia, éd. La Découverte de nouveaux mondes: aventures et voyages imaginaires au 


XVII siécl. Fasano , Schena, 1993. 


13. Sur les machines au XVII siécle, voir les articles de Gérard Simon, Claude Reichler, 


René Taton et Rosy Pinhas Delpuech dans le numéro spécial consacré a “la machine dans 
Pimaginaire (1650-1800)” de la Revue des Sciences Humaines, n° 186-187, 1982/3. 


14. Cet article est une forme d’introduction a une étude plus large en cours sur le voyage 
comme objet de débat dans la querelle des Anciens et des Modernes. Sur ce sujet, voir déja 
Sara E. Melzer, “Le Nouveau Monde et la Querelle des Anciens et des Modernes dans le 
Furetiere,” Littératures classiques, numéro 47, hiver 2003, p. 133-148. 


ILARIA CROTTI 


Margini del viaggio: tra Marivaux e Goldoni 


e partiamo dal presupposto che la pratica reale e concreta del viaggio, in 

ogni suo aspetto, in quanto evento sia individuale che collettivo, non possa 

essere trascritta in parol se non negli spazi che la precedono, la intervallano 

o la vedono compiuta, insomma in tutta quella serie di, anche minimi e 
circoscritti, ‘vuoti’ esperienziali che permettono di aprire delle finestre significative 
su una dimensione odeporica ulteriore, pertinente appunto alla scrittura, nelle 
diverse modalita e prassi che la contrassegnano, indubbiamente connesse alle 
distinte forme che assume l’attivita lettoriale,' appare anche innegabile che tale 
cifrata misura del viaggio, in quanto margine che si limita a segnarne l’attesa 
prima, l’impazienza durante, e, una volta concluso, il rimpianto (ma il desiderio 
sempre), compaia anch’essa puntualmente tematizzata nei testi. 

In quelle che potremmo individuare come soglie del viaggio, infatti — dal 
momento che il presente intervento si limiterebbe a vagliarne alcune linee (optando 
per una prospettiva piu metodologica che esaustiva, ef pour cause, nel porsi dinanzi 
ai molti paesaggi letterari possibili), necessariamente circoscritte al Settecento 
italiano, come al secolo nel quale la fenomenologia dell’esperienza odeporica 
viene ad assumere una rilevanza, anche metaforica, estrema —* sembrano annidarsi 
alcuni etimi dotati di notevole portata semantica. 

Del resto, come notava in un’ottica semiotica Lotman a meta degli anni 
Ottanta, é proprio nello spazio liminale che si attivano con maggiore intensita 
i processi di senso (“Il confine ha nella semiosfera anche un’altra funzione: é 
la zona in cui si sviluppano i processi semiotici accelerati che sono sempre piu 
attivi alla periferia culturale e che di li si dirigono verso le strutture nucleari per 
sostituirle [...] Il confine con un altro testo infatti é sempre una zona in cui si 
ha un accrescimento delle formazioni di senso.” Lotman 62, 65). La dove il 
campo periferico, letto anche alla luce del pensiero di uno scienziato quale 


1. Vagha con profitto questo campo, rivolgendo il proprio sguardo al versante femminile, il 
contributo di Tiziana Plebani (I/ ‘genere’ dei libri. Storie e rappresentazioni della lettura al femminile e 
al maschile tra Medioevo ed eta moderna), pronto a mettere a fuoco alcuni aspetti nodali, inerenti al 
corpo e alle sue rappresentazioni iconografiche. 

2. Per le prospettive, anche metodologiche e teoriche, implicite in questo discorso rimando 
nel suo complesso al volume I/ viaggio in Italia. Modell, stilt, lingue, in particolare, per quanto 
concerne la valenza immaginaria e visiva soggiacente, si veda il saggio di chi scrive: “Jo veggro 
ancor...”: viaggio e visione nei Versi sciolti de/ Bettinelli (65-92). 


Annali dTtalianistica 20 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


138 ILARIA CROTTI 


Vernadskij,’ si configurerebbe come un’area dotata di un elevato indice di 
dinamismo, capace, insomma, di penetrare con efficacia all’ interno dei vari nuclei 
del sistema, sfidandolo con insistenza e rendendo, cosi, produttivi i process1 
culturali, nell’ambito di un mouvement incessante, e intimamente dialogico.* Un 
concetto di dialogicita, questo, enucleato dal magistero lotmaniano, che non 
puo essere compreso in ogni sua articolata valenza se tenuto distante dall’altra 
dimensione ricerca, ancora una volta russa, aperta dal teorico della letteratura 
che, facendo perno alls visione artistica dostoevskiana, ha fatto di questo dominio 
un ineludibile cardine filosofico del proprio pensiero. I] mio riferimento va 
ovviamente alla teoresi bachtiniana, la quale ha provveduto a proiettare sul grande 
schermo dell’alterita, appunto, i concetti di dialogicita, per un verso, e confine, 
per un altro.” 

Da parte sua, il concetto di desiderio, sondato dalla serrata analisi di Dumouhé, 
si offre come un territorio anch’esso fotiero di perspicue e affascinanti ipotesi 
di lavoro; la dove, nel tracciare una mappa sia geografica che storica del campo, 
che origina proprio dal Simposio di Platone, assunto quale punto di partenza 


3. Pure Panalisi di Tagliagambe si rivela molto sensibile nel cogliere Ja lettura che del rapporto 
intercorrente tra sistema vivente e ambiente ha compiuto lo scienziato russo, la dove si assume 
il concetto di confine quale termine chiave per interpretare in tutta la sua complessita la 
sovrapposizione di sistemi (I'agliagambe 101-114). 


4. Prendendo spunto dalle ricerche di carattere neurofisiologico di Nikolaenko, dopo una 
serrata analisi del funzionamento asimmetrico del cervello e delle connesse potenzialita 
creative del soggetto, Lotman, da parte sua, nel prestare soprattutto attenzione al duplice 
versante in cui vivono le culture, rileva: “Tutte queste diverse concezioni si possono 
considerare vicine al modello dialogico della cultura, secondo il quale 1 periodi di relativa 
stabilita, che sono in una condizione di equilibrio ed hanno quindi al loro interno tendenze 
opposte, che si frenano reciprocamente, si alternano a periodi di destabilizzazione e di sviluppo 
esplosivo. Nei periodi di stabilita lo scambio dialogico fra i testi si compie all’interno dello 
stesso taglio sincronico della cultura, che si presenta come un quadro asimmetrico in cui si 
combinano sottostrutture semiotiche diverse. 

Nel periodo dinamico diventa improvvisamente pit attiva una delle tendenze— (emisferica 


destra o sinistra) — e reciprocamente !’altra diminuisce la sua attivita” (Lotman 110). Anche 
la magistrale analisi bio-antropologica di un Bateson — e qui mi devo limitare a un fugace 


rimando — ha molto insistito su una concezione del confine del sé come di un insieme 
dinamico e decentrato (“[...] 1 confini dell’individuo, ammesso che siano reali, non saranno 
confini spaziali, ma piuttosto saranno simili ai circoli che rappresentano gli instemi dei 
diagrammi della teoria degli insiemi 0 ai fumetti che escono dalla bocca dei personaggi dei 
comics”, Bateson 178; ma piu in generale 177-194; i corsivi, qui come altrove, privi di 
indicazione contraria, devono ritenersi del testo). 


5. Faccio riferimento in particolare, tra i molti e diversi possibili, a un passo datavo primi anni 
Sessanta che, nella prospettiva che tento di mettere a fuoco, mi pare di singolare eloquenza: 
“Un’unica coscienza é priva di autosufficienza e non puo esistere. Io prendo coscienza di me 
e divento me stesso, solo svelandomi per l’altro, attraverso l’altro e mediante l’altro. I piu 
importanti atti che costituiscono Pautocoscienza sono determinati dal rapporto con Valtra 
coscienza (col tH). Il distacco, la disunione, il rinchiudersi in se stessi come causa principale 
della perdita di sé. Non quello che avviene all’interno, ma quello che avviene al confine della 
propria e dell’altrui coscienza, sulla sog/a. E tutto cid che é interiore non é autosufficiente, é 
rivolto in fuori, é dialogizzato, ogni esperienza interiore viene a trovarsi sul confine, s’incontra 
con altre, e in questo incontro pieno di tensione sta tutta la sua sostanza” (Bachtin 324). 


MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 139 


imprescindibile per comprendere la concezione occidentale dell’amore, almeno 
in una delle due linee in cui si biforca, quella afferente a una visione negativa, 
connessa per un verso a un’idea di mancanza, per un’altra alla sfera del demoniaco, 
la lezione che Lacan ha dedicato al concetto di transfert viene colta anche come 
messa a fuoco di un percorso pregresso, in cui si potrebbe veder ritrascritta l’intera 
storia del pensiero filosofico. Lo studioso, cosi, individua in uno spazio intermedio 
letimo pit profondo del concetto e, insieme, il punto d’approdo del complesso 
avvicendarsi di un avvertito dibattito: 


In fondo, l’intera filosofia ha detto una cosa sola: il desiderio é l’esilio. Nel 
senso che le passioni e i desideri del corpo ci esiliano fuoni dall’'umana misura 
e dall’ordine sociale. O nel senso che il ‘vero’ desiderio ci nporta a cio da 
cui siamo stati esiliati, il mondo delle Idee, Dio, l'Uno, e ci spinge quindi a 
esiliarci dal mondo per nitrovare il non-luogo di quel ‘vero’ luogo. [...] 

La stessa psicoanalisi, che ha sacrificato il desiderio alla castrazione, alla 
pulsione di morte e alla nevrosi, finisce per assegnargli come luogo, quantomeno 
in Lacan, lo spazio dell’ ‘intermedio-tra-due-morti’: non-luogo e deserto dove 
Antigone ed Edipo bnillano del loro splendore. I deserto di Edipo a Colono 
non é un luogo mistico. E nell’intermedio che separa il mondo del potere 
e dei beni, del quale egli € stato a suo tempo il padrone, dalla morte, verso 


la quale egli avanza, ancora da padrone. (Dumoulié 306-307)° 


Dismisura sospesa, insomma, di un infervallum che separa e insieme congiunge 
due sponde solcate da un segno di lutto e negazione. Proprio nella spazialita 
a piu volti del liminale, allora, diventa possibile cogliere le valenze molteplici 
di un percorso che non pare giocare su fattori di appartenenza (proprieta, potere, 
controllo), bensi intorno a insistiti motivi, intrinsecamente dialettici, di trapasso, 
instabilita, trasformazione.’ 

Il viaggio paventato e, insieme, desiderato come scampo e salvezza, via 


6. Rilievi important, nella prospettiva che qui cerco di affrontare, concernente una riflessione 
dedicata al liminale, anche in Dumoulhé 32-34; in dettaglio, la dove si traccia proprio una linea 
Empedocle-Schopenhauer tramite cui si provvede a leggere il destino del mondo come 
un’erranza-tra-due-mort. 


7. Ha viaggiato con intelligenza lungo terre di frontiera, simboleggiate da sette emblematiche 
citta (Calcutta, Bombay, San Francisco, Gerusalemme, Sarajevo, Berlino, Londra), prese come 
metafore delle contraddizioni, sia sociali che culturali, che assillano la contemporaneita e, 
insieme, nodi problematici i cui significati rivestono un’indubbia rilevanza metodologica, dove 
molte domande pervengono ad un’icastica evidenza, il volume dal titolo, appunto, Frontiere, 
all’insieme delle cui analisi rimando. La spazialita urbana, infatti, si presenta talmente carica di 
senso da divenire il luogo privilegiato di un viaggio privo ormai di centro, dove la dimensione 
dell’arrivo si trasloca di continuo in una di partenza (“Una chiave essenziale per la 
comprensione della frontiera é la trasformazione continua. Un processo che s’alimenta degli 
stessi passaggi tra un confine e l’altro, che vive di contaminazioni. Epifania perenne d’altri 
cambiamenti, perfino talvolta inattesi. Ex missioni ai margini del deserto diventano capitali 


mondiali del cinema. Villaggi di contadini hanno lasciato il posto alle piu straordinarie imprese 
hi-tech. ‘Vai all’Ovest, giovanotto, dicevano gli slogan dell’Ottocento, negli Usa. E il West era il 
paradigma della Nuova Frontiera, terra di promessa per eccellenza”. (Frontiere 20-21) 


140 ILARIA CROTTI 


di fuga davanti all’incalzare di un desiderio che non si riesce né a controllare 
né a gestire, puo assurgere, allora, ad antidoto a doppio taglio. Esso, infatti, 
rappresenta sia lo spazio di un allontanamento, nel momento in cui il soggetto 
tenta sottrarsi al suo raggio d’influenza, sia la traduzione di detto distacco in 
una vertiginosa attivazione del movimento ad esso contrario, cioé di un’attrazione 
intensa che, antinomicamente, si rovescia nel proprio opposto: spazio sospeso, 
per eccellenza ‘intervallato’, dove nel vuoto apparente e nel silenzio pare celarsi 
una potente valenza emotiva. 

Barthes nello stile frammentario, quasi singhiozzato nelle sue piu intime 
fibre, che caratterizza i Fragments d’un discours amoureux, ha dato conto con singolare 
fascino di una siffatta movenza, connessa per certi versi al desiderio e, insieme, 
alla morte, come alla cifra analogica che accosta l’uno all’altra,* proprio quando 
descrive (non gia analizza) un non-voler-prendere (Nvp) che scherma al suo interno 
recessi ambivalenti, segnati da una vitalita tanto piu forte e seduttiva quanto 
pit neutralizzata in superficie; cosi, evocando il gioco del reversino, nel suo 
disconnettere la nozione di vittoria: 


Il Nvp (il non-voler-prendere, espressione modellata su analoghe espressioni 
dell’Oriente) é un succedaneo rovesciato del suicidio. E se il Nvp fosse una 
mossa tattica (finalmente una!)? Se io volessi pur sempre (quantunque 
segretamente) conquistare l’altro fingendo di nnunziare a lui? Se mi allontanassi 
per appropriarmene meglio? II reversino (quel gioco di carte in cui vince chi 
ha fatto meno punti) si basa su una finta che 1 saggi ben conoscono (“La mia 
forza sta nella mia debolezza’’). Questa mossa € uno stratagemma, dal momento 
che si situa proprio all’interno della passione, di cui lascia intatte le ossessioni 
e le angosce. [...] Che il Non-voler-prendere resti quindi irrigato di desiderio 
da questa mossa rischiosa: |’/o #/ amo € nella mia testa, ma io lo imprigiono 
dietro le mie labbra. Non proferisco. Io dico silenziosamente a chi non e piu 
o non é ancora l’altro: mi trattengo dall’amarti (Barthes 213, 214, 215) 


Uno dei luoghi testuali settecenteschi piu significativi per comprendere i nodi 
che si avviluppano intorno a questo insieme di prospettive,’ dove premono i 
poli tematici di un viaggio mancato proprio per eccesso di desiderio e, insieme, 
esperito nella cifra di una sfida emotiva scagliata verso l’altro, € costituito proprio 
dall’operetta algarottiana I/ congresso di Citera (1745)."° 


8. Per quanto conceme le relazioni che legano con reciprocita ’andamento in progress dell’intreccio, 
le pulsioni erotiche e il desiderio della fine, letto soprattutto attraverso il Freud di A/ di 4 de/ 
principio di piacere, mando nel suo complesso all’analisi di Brooks. 


9. Ha percorso con notevole dovizia di verifiche in diversi generi (dalla narrativa al teatro, 
dalla trattatistica all’autobiografia, dalle relazioni di viaggio agli epistolari) il tema amoroso nella 
letteratura italiana del XVIII secolo, nei suoi aspetti teorici, rappresentativi e sociali, il volume 
di Michele Mari, cui rinvio anche per quanto concerne un esame del contributo algarottiano 
(in particolare: Mari 45-47). 

10. L’edizione moderna cui mi attengo, quella curata da Armando Marchi, niproduce la stampa 
compresa nel tomo VIII delle Opere de/ Conte Algarotti (Livorno: Coltellini, 1765). In una 
sintetica ma attenta Nota ai testi (Algarotti 114-118), tuttavia, si provvede a sunteggiare l’intensa 


MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 141 


Tra i risvolti di una trattatistica amorosa pronta a cogliere con sottile ironia 
le aporie di un petrarchismo ormai svuotato di ogni pertinenza, anzi citato per 
paradosso quale insussistente involucro formale di una certa metafisica deprivata 
di contenuti,"' infatti, si effigia uno scenario giudiziale a carattere mitologico. 
Tra le sue quinte allegoriche, il teatro dei sentimenti, pervaso da un sensismo 
pronto a elargire legittimo spicco alle ragioni corporee, diviene nel medesimo 
tempo scenario di un viaggio classico nell’intatta grecita di un’isola sacra, appunto, 
Citera (“la in mezzo all’acque del Mare che tra il Peloponneso frange e la montuosa 
costiera di Creta”. Algarotti 27): pellegrinaggio che si trasforma in un vero e 
proprio percorso educativo dei sensi e, insieme, dei modi mondani e salottieri 
atti a contenerne gli eccessi. 

In uno scenario che vede la Volutta prostrata davanti al trono di Amore, 
una volta che questi, valutata la difficile congiuntura in cui “trovavansi le cose 
amorose nelle varie parti di Europa” (Algarotti 48), ha emesso il proprio verdetto, 
ecco proclamata un’ordinanza che ingagpia come soggetto il maschile dei Cavalieri, 
mentre come oggetto il femminile delle Dame. Agli unie alle altre verra affidato 
il delicato compito di raccogliere i dettami varati dalla volonta divina, 
promulgandoli tra le nazioni europee, il cui primato resta indiscusso (“tra le 
nazioni che abitano quella parte piu bella del mondo”, Algarotti 48). 

Cosi, immediatamente dopo aver affrontato temi inerenti la moda eeloquenza 
amorosa, Si prescrive un codice comportamentale che sembra intrattenere un 
dialogo a distanza proprio con il barthesiano Nvp: 


Quando poi tu ti accorgi, anzi tu sia certo, ch’ella non possa fare senza di 
te, trova un qualche pretesto di doverti allontanare da essa per breve tempo, 
mostrando che niente potea sopraggiugnerti di piu sinistro, che niente uguaghiar 
potrebbe il tuo dolore. Ventila l’amorosa fiamma una breve lontananza, come 
una lunga la spegne. Ancora déi gittare alcun motto, ond’ella possa comprendere 
che finalmente non é al mondo sola, e che pur ci sarebbe altra donna a cui 
potresti volgere il cuore. Sappi gentilmente irritarla, e fain modo che amore, 
ch’ella ha per se stessa, congiuri in favor dell’amor che tu hai per lei. Usa con 
le donne le arti delle donne. (Algarott: 51-52) 


Le indicazioni che Volutta suggerisce a quel prototipo del maschile, rappresentato 
dal Cavaliere, prescrivono, infatti, un atteggiamento di calibrato distacco dalla 
figura femminile, una volta che essa si trovi ormai invischiata nelle panie d’Amore. 
Il proposito si fonda sull’intenzione di giungere a controllarne i movimenti 
sommersi, diventando registi in prima persona di uno scenario altrimenti 
imprevedibile e minaccioso.”” 


elaborazione variantistica e la complessa tradizione a stampa che il componimento visse, 
favorito in cid dalla mossa circolazione europea che incontro. 


11. Numerose sono, infatti, nel testo le citazioni, tratte soprattutto dal Petrarca delle Rime, che 
costellano la trama elegante e, insieme, lieve, dello stile algarottiano. A proposito si veda l’Indice 
delle cttazioni testuak (Algarotti 106). 


12. Dumoulié analizza compiutamente la concezione freudiana del desiderio, nel definirla 


142 ILARIA CROTTI 


E si tratta di un commiato, anche solo alluso, che assume precisamente 
iconnotati di un viaggio: un mouvement, insomma, capace di attivare 1 sentimenti 
ostili, conflittuali, perfino autodistruttivi, impliciti nel desiderio, collocandoli 
nel medesimo tempo sotto verifica. Pertanto, pure il soggetto amoroso, proprio 
imponendosi quella separazione, si mette in gioco in prima persona, dal momento 
che, coinvolto nei fattori speculari innescati dalla paventata privazione, non 
puo eludere un certo grado di sofferenza. Le asimmetrie che ne conseguono, 
quindi, nel contraddire un ideale rapporto a due, pacificato nelle rispettive 
corrispondenze, attivano, invece, reciproche fughe prospettiche."” 

Esemplari, per delineare alcuni tratti di una fenomenologia erotica che corre 
di continuo il pericolo di degenerare in dismisura e sofferenza, anche le amare 
osservazioni che il trattatello pseudocrudeliano L ‘arte di piacere alle donne e alle 
Amabii Compagnie (Parigi, presso Giorgio Remond, 1762) dispensa ad un 
destinatario ideale che, a differenza di quello prescelto dal componimento 
dell’Algarotti, si individua come precipuamente maschile:'* una prova che, 
collocandosi in una fase, inaugurata proprio dal Maupertuis dell’E saz de philosophie 
morale (1749), contrassegnata da un naturalismo materialistico percorso da una 
vivace attenzione per alcune problematiche, investenti e una prospettiva 
prettamente corporea e una spiccata attenzione per i piaceri suscitati dai sensi, 
non disgiunte da un fondo pessimistico, raccoglie e, insieme, rielabora, in 
quell’inizio degli anni Sessanta, cosi esemplan per le implicazioni di segno negativo 
che si vengono ad addensare nella seconda meta del XVIII secolo, un retaggio 
di singolare interesse."” 

Infatti, ’indicazione che l’Anonimo fornisce all’amante infelice suggerisce 
una metaforica del viaggio, come, appunto, fuga- naufragio (“Oh infelice amante! 
Oh male sparsi sospiri, e lacrime perdute! Fuggi, che Amore con le prime lusinghe 
t’avvicina al lido per gettarti in un mar d’affanni, perché lasciata la simulazione 
da parte, chiaro vedrai che la tua Donna gode quando sei lontano, e pena quando 
pensa a te, si affanna, e geme nel suo cuore quando é costretta vederti, ed 
ascoltarti”. L ‘arte di piacere alle donne 83-84); la quale trova nei ritmi alternaty, dettati 


come qualcosa che sorge, appunto, dall’esperienza di una perdita e, insieme, in quanto stimolo 
a rivivere la soddisfazione precedentemente esperita, evocando anche il termine latino 
desiderium, nel senso etimologico di lutto e rimpianto (Dumoulié 112-114). 


13. Sulle figure del paradosso e sul principio di un’impossibile simmetria del desiderio, quali 
chiavi di volta per comprendere alcune significative valenze, attive nell’innovato campo 
estetico del XVIII secolo, presenti in particolare nella dialettica che traduce la passione in 
sentimento, si legga Riva. Gia a partire dalla filosofia empedoclea, del resto, si possono cogliere 
in nuce, secondo Dumoulié (31-32), le radici di un pensiero che concepisce l’amore proprio 
come miraggio speculare, dominato dall’inganno. 

14. Mari, da parte sua, focalizza la prova sullo sfondo di un programmatico ovidianesimo, da 
leggersi in relazione alla rinnovata fortuna dell’Ars amandi nella Francia d’inizio secolo (Mari 
40-41). 

15. Rimando alle dense e lucide osservazioni che Marco Cerruti, nella sua Premessa (7-17), ha 
dedicato all’operetta anonima; dove si pongono in evidenza alcuni snodi decisivi, connessi a 
temi specifici (solitudine, socabilité, infelicita), atti a comprendere un secolo che, accanto alla 
pervicacemente ricercata luce, si rivela percorso da umbratili sagome. 


MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 143 


da cauti avvicinamenti risolti poi in drastici rifiuti, le mappe controverse di una 
propria geografia erotica. 

Cosi, il doloroso mouvement che perseguita il soggetto amoroso risulta proiettato 
a tutto tondo in una piu complessa problematica, che la condizione umana stessa, 
da parte sua, esperisce, condannata— parrebbe — a vivere una vicenda regressiva, 
dove proprio le passioni sembrano destinate a disputare una partita (un viaggio) 
nefasta; come espresso in modi di notevole spicco all’altezza del paragrafo quarto 
del primo capitolo: 


Quella varieta di oggetti che si comprendono, quel numero immenso d’Idee 
che si ritiene, se ben si mira, non ci produce che tormento e affanno. Pascola 
in un verde Prato la bianca Giovenca, e ne risente il piacere: si conduce alla 
morte, ed é tranquilla. Nasce ’Uomo bisognoso di tutto, e a proporzione che 
in lui si sviluppa il suo pensare, sale per gradi all’infelicita. Un tenero fanciullo, 
che vezzeggia nel seno della sua Madre quanto é contento o della soavita del 
latte, o della dolcezza del zucchero! Cresce, ed in crescendo risente il peso 
dell’Umanita. Pensoso, torbido, malinconico, o fiero e iracondo, passa nelle 
pene la Adolescenza: nella Gioventu é trasportato per le passioni d’Amore, 
nella Virilita l Ambizione lo trafigge, e aspetta la Vecchiezza, sede funesta 
delle miserie e degli affanni, quando Uomo si disfa, e ritorna in polvere, 
donde fu tratto. Le passioni sono gli Element della vita; ma non essendo mai 
in calma, ci trasportano, e ci recano inquietudine, ed angoscia. (L ‘arte di piacere 
alle donne 24-26) 


Ecco che tra le pieghe di una rete tematica in cui l’esistenza stessa si configura 
come viaggio verso la morte, si insinua un lessico variamente screziato nei timbri 
odeporici, dove il piacere pare ricodificato in un desiderio di fine. 

Proprio il teatro comico di un Marivaux, per certi aspetti, si presenta come 
uno spazio scenico molto attento a prestare voce a dinamiche riconducibili 
all?ambito che si cerca di focalizzare, quindi straordinariamente fertile nella 
prospettiva prescelta. 

Esso, infatti, giunge a raccogliere un’articolata eredita socio-sentimentale 
— una sorta di cultura degli affetti— che gli deriva da diversi domini. La 
orchestrano, per un verso, una tradizione narrativa europea e, in particolare, 
francese molto ricettiva (e gia all’altezza della seconda meta del XVII secolo, 
come prova in modi ineguagliati la produzione di una Madame de La Fayette) 
nell’interpretare 1 complessi geroglifici di un coeur sempre in balia di un soggetto 
periclitante, da una parte, e, nel medesimo tempo, in preda alle dinamiche infide 
che il Mondo intenderebbe imporghi, dall’altro. Ma, accanto al polo narrativo, 
ecco profilarsi ulteriori apporti, come quello proveniente da un consolidato 
retaggio tragico, soprattutto di dominio raciniano. 

Su altri versanti, del resto, si stagliano le linee convergenti di un teatro 
primosettecentesco, come quello parigino degli Itakens, sulle sue scene, una volta 
debitamente messi sotto tono dissidi investenti sia la sfera afferente a conflitti 
sociali, sia il circuito piu prettamente corporeo — opposizioni cogenti che 
continuavano ad allignare, invece, in varia misura nei piu consueti modi espressivi 


144 ILARIA CROTTI 


dell’Arte — siera educato il genere comico (soprattutto grazie alla lezione riformata 
di un Luigi Riccoboni)"* a confrontarsi con un rarefatto mondo di sentiment, 
rileggendone gli andirivieni con acuta finezza. Esemplare, in una linea di tale 
tenore, la ricodificazione subita dal secondo Zanni (divenuto poi par l'amour): 
carattere, cioé, gia in transizione, lungo un suo compiuto percorso che lo condurra 
ad assumere lo spessore di personaggio.”” 

Per la rilevanza che detiene, nella direzione analitica che cerco di sviluppare, 
assumerei quale testo campione (tra i numerosi possibilt) la pzéce marivaudiana 
in tre atti La surprise de l'amour, recitata per la prima volta a Parigi il 3 maggio 
1722 dalla troupe Riccoboni dei Comédiens-Itahens, e interpretata da Silvia (Rosa 
Giovanna Benozzi Balletti), Louis (Riccoboni), Flaminia (Elena Balletti Riccoboni) 
e Thomassin (Tommaso Antonio Vicentini)."* 

Tra le sue quinte, infatti, la cadenza desiderante che percorre la triplice coppia 
dei personaggi én Jove— i nobili (Comtesse e Lélio), come i loro rispettivi servitori 
(Jacqueline e Pierre, per un verso, Colombine e Arlequin, per un altro) - risulta 
tutta giocata su scandite, anzi, quasi ritmicamente alternate, note di attrazione 
e ripulsa, di richiamo e rifiuto, di invito e diniego. La legge della passione, infatti, 
impone loro un intimo moto compulsivo, la cui gestione (e, possibilmente, 
controllo) implica lo strascinamento di un certo indice di sofferenza."” 

La prima scena, in cui Pierre (jardinier de la Comtesse) e Jacqueline (servante 
de Léio) danno il la a un duetto che, come non inusuale in Marivaux, concentrando 
in un unico quadro iniziale, circoscritto e, nel medesimo tempo, semplificato, 
la dinamica dei rapporti intercorrenti tra i personaggi, costituisce la chiave 
d’accesso di tutta la vicenda e, insieme, la cifra in grado di intuirne 1 possibili 
sviluppi. Costoro, dopo un conflitto d’esordio, superano con scioltezza i loro 


16. Nell’esame di Varese trovo una fine interpretazione delle pur distinte opzioni che per un 
verso Riccoboni e Marivaux, per un altro Goldoni compirono, progettando un teatro comico 
riformato; in particolare, si legga la dove lo studioso pone l’accento sia sulle similarita che sulle 
disparita delle scelte che trasformarono una certa civilta delle maschere in una della parola 
scritta (Varese 178-180). 


17. Trovo una policroma analisi, retorica come stilistica, delle opzioni teatrali martvaudiane, 
e, insieme, dei rapporti che esse intrattennero sia con il mondo attoriale che con il pubblico, 
nel volume Manvaux e il teatro italiano (rinvio piu in dettaglio ai contributi di Jean Rousset, Jean 
Sgard, Martine de Rougemont, Michel Gilot). 


18. Per un icastico ritratto di ogni singola figura si confronti l’ormai classico lavoro di 
Campardon, cui rimando voce per voce. All’apporto di Luciani rinvio, invece, per l’intelligente 
messa a fuoco dei problemi concreti, anche linguistici, che travagliarono le tre fasi storiche 
attraversate dalla Comédie-Italenne nella Parigi settecentesca. 


19. E Barthes, da parte sua, nel situare il manifestarsi del linguaggio in una condizione di 
assenza, commentando il termine Appagamento: “Appagamenti: non vengono detti— di modo 
che, falsamente, la relazione amorosa sembra ridursi a essere un lungo lamento. II fatto é che, 
se é incoerente esprimere malamente l’infelicita, per contro, nel caso della felicita, sarebbe una 
colpa sciuparne l’espressione: l’io parla solo quando é ferito; quando mi sento appagato o mi 
ricordo di esserlo stato, il linguaggio ci appare angusto: io sono frasportato fuori del linguaggio, 
cioé fuori del mediocre, del generico” (Barthes 31). 


MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 145 


reciproci dissidi (grazie soprattutto al pronta disponibilita di Jacqueline)” e si 
pongono con solerzia ad analizzare quelli altrui, quasi come sembianze situate 
gia al di la del guado, che osservino da una sicura sponda chi ancora deve 
oltrepassare l’ntervallum del tragitto amoroso. 

La condizione in cui versa Lélio, infatti, isolato, ridotto a vivere come un 
selvaggio eremita a causa di una pregressa delusione amorosa che lo ha indotto 
a fuggire tutto il genere femminile— La scéne est dans une maison de campagne, recita 
puntualmente la didascalia iniziale— ¢ messa a fuoco proprio tramite lo sguardo 
inaugurale di Jacqueline; la quale ne coglie, infatti, la dismisura éfrange (“Oh! 
c’est pis qu’un Turc: a cause d’une dame de Paris qu’il aimait beaucoup, et qui 
lia tourné casaque pour un autre galant plus mal bati que li.. Li, qui est glorieux, 
a pris ca en mal, et il est venu ici pour vivre en harmite, en philosophe; car vela 
comme il dit” I, 1). 

Nella polarita, appunto : intervallata’, che si crea tra un insidioso e nefasto 
spazio parigino, da cui si é fuggiti a precipizio alla ricerca di un ricovero salvifico, 
e un arcadico e indeterminato luogo silvestre, si prefigura gia, infatti, una 
dimensione di viaggio. In un attraversamento di tale tenore, l’agreste e riparata 
maison, anch’essa, pet certi versi, ‘isola citerea’,”' verrebbe a rappresentare, cosi, 
un approdo sicuro ed appartato, tale da scongiurare qualsiasi altro periglioso 
incontro. Insomma, il viaggio d’amore appare avviato proprio nel momento 
in Cui Ci si reputa in una condizione ipoteticamente indenne, ascrivibile a una 
stasi emotiva assoluta. 

Se Parigi, insomma, si preannuncia come area ipotetica di mouvement, scenario 
sovreccitato su cui le figure femminili si agitano senza posa — infatti, la stessa 
paysanne Jacqueline impartisce una lezione esemplare al proprio padrone, quando 
lo ammonisce circa le differenze che intercorrono tra distinte tpologie di donne 
(“Est-ce que vous croyez que je sommes comme vos girouettes de Paris, qui 
tournent a tout vent?” I, i1i)— proprio la sospensione totale (anche se apparente) 
di quella riposante campagna cela insidie ben pit venefiche. Sara sui suoi sfondi, 
infatti, che per un motivo molto simile a quello esperito da Lélio, ripara la 
Comtesse, anche lei in ritiro spirituale a causa di non felici vicende amorose. 

Ella, tuttavia, davanti all’¢navikté dimostratale da Lélio, che inizialmente 
pare rifiutatla, quindi stimolata a prendere posizione punto per punto, opta per 
una strategia seduttiva fondata su un mimetismo altamente sospetto, i cui toni 
celano un’ambiguita di fondo. Cosi, nell’atteggiarsi a distaccata mediatrice degli 
amori altrui, in una posa che la vede estranea al benché minimo moto dettato 
da segreto interesse, lontana da qualsiasi coinvolgimento personale, eccola 
esclamare: 


20. La quale trova ozioso, nonché ridicolo, un conflitto che la tenga separata dall’amato; ben 
presto, infatti, davanti alle domande incalzanti di Pierre, esclama: “Eh! je dis franchement que 
je serais bian empéchée de ne pas t’aimer; car t’es bian agriable” (I, i). 

21. Per un’attenta puntualizzazione delle accezioni che viene ad assumere il cronotopo isola, 
in particolare nella librettistica goldoniana, si veda Fido 69-73. 


146 ILARIA CROTTI 


Moi, Monsieur! je n’ai point 4 me plaindre des hommes, je ne les hais point 
non plus. Hélas! la pauvre espéce! elle est, pour qui examine, encore plus 
comique que haissable [...] Oh ! admirable engeance qui a trouvé la raison 
et la vertu des fardeaux trop pesants pour elle, et qui nous a chargées du soin 
de les porter ! Ne voila-t-il pas de beaux titres de supériorité sur nous, et de 
pareilles gens ne sont-ils pas risible? (I, vit) 


Sia Lélio che la Comtesse, insomma, tendono ad estendere la loro ripulsa del 
sesso altrui, inteso in un’accezione astratta, in quanto genere privo di 
determinatezza, scartando cio che costituisce, insomma, la specificita del soggetto 
amoroso, la sua misura individuale, imprescindibile e atopica;” tanto da suscitare 
nell’altro una risposta tale da contraddire quel criterio uniformante, ritenuto 
lesivo dello statuto del soggetto, come della sua stessa esistenza: un canone rigido 
che, una volta declinato in una prospettiva odeporica, si rivelerebbe per eccellenza 
statico. 

Nel rifiutare il viaggio del desiderio, anzi, collocandosi proprio ai suoi margini, 
in quella spersa campagne, essi si pongono, invece, nell’occhio di un ciclone che 
li trascinera battuta dopo battuta, scena dopo scena in una spirale centripeta, 
costituita proprio dalla loro ostinata ricerca di distanza. 

La coppia, inesorabilmente attratta in un turbine di parola e, insieme, di 
sensi, incapace di liberarsene o, altriment, gestirla, decodificandone le insidie, 
sara aiutata da navigate guide servili: quella costituita da Colombine, sul versante 
Comtesse, dall’Arlequin per Lélio; un dittico di “personaggi spettaton” — come 
li ha definiti, dal canto suo, Rousset * — diabolicamente sapienti nell’arte di 
manovrare a dovere, tramite la parola altrui e quella propria, i desideri padronali, 
conducendoli prima all’esasperazione, indi alla deriva di un’intima, e non piu 
contenibile, epifania. 

Il Baron, l’amico di Lélio, rappresenta la voce deputata, all’altezza di I,viii, 
a portare sulla scena la presa d’atto di una situazione incredibilmente atipica, 
fondata com’é su una congiuntura che possiede un non so che di straordinario, 
in quel suo riunire in un luogo talmente campagnard due personaggi invece catadins, 
accostati solo per paradosso e, obbedendo a cadenze simmetriche, entrambi 
in fuga dall’amore. 

Tanto é vero che il modo migliore per mettere a fuoco una situazione a 
tal punto inusitata, consiste proprio nel ritrascriverla in uno spazio dell’altrove, 


22. E Barthes, nel postulare un conflitto in termini tra il linguaggio, inteso come principio di 
classificazione, quindi maya e Vinqualificabile di atopes: “L’altro che io amo e che mi affascina 
€ atopos. lo non posso classificarlo, poiché egh € precisamente l’Unico, |’Immagine irrepetibile 
che corrisponde miracolosamente alla spectalita del mio desidenio. E la figura della mia verita; 
esso non puo essere fissato in alcun stereotipo (che é la verita degli altri)”. (Barthes 38) 


23. Rileva Rousset a proposito: “Di questo sguardo che ‘penetra attraverso la maschera’, di 
questo potere di districare e di decifrare, Marivaux dota in larga misura i suoi personaggi 
spettatori. Egli li fa testimoni smascheranti della commedia semi-cosciente che non cessano 
di recitarsi 1 protagonisti innamorati; li fa interpreti degli enigmi del sentimento, li obbliga a 
sollevare 1 veli sotto 1 quali il cuore si inganna, ed a decifrare 1 segni menzogneni delle passioni 
ingannatrici” (Rousset 77). 


MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 147 


appunto parigino. Percio il Baron si propone anche come la figura delegata a 
verbalizzare un codice del surprenant-curieux che intrattiene non pochi legami 
con uno degli etimi pit significativi dell’estetica del secolo” — e posto in piena 
evidenza proprio all’altezza del titolo della pzéce— esclamando: “Comment, ma 
surprise! voici peut-étre le coup de hasard le plus bizzarre qui soit arrivé [...] 
c’est le fait le plus curieux qu’on puisse imaginer. Dés que je serai a Paris, ou 
je vais, je le ferai mettre dans la gazette” (I, viii). 

L’amico di Lélio, infatt, getta il proprio sguardo colmo di stupore su una 
vicenda che sembra contraddire non solo le leggi della natura, convalidate 
dall’esperienza individuale stessa, ma la geografia medesima di un universale 
inventario multietnico; la dove il tema del viaggio tende ad assumere le sfumature 
di un catalogo libertino, al cui orizzonte si stagliano schiere infinite di donne: 


Songez-vous a tous les millions de femmes qu’il y a dans le monde, au couchant, 
au levant, au septentrion, au midi, Européennes, Asiatiques, Africaines, 
Américaines, blanches, noires, basanées, de toutes les couleurs ? Nos propres 
expénences, et les relations de nos voyageurs, nous apprennent que partout 
la femme est amie de "homme, que la nature l’a pourvue de bonne volonté 
pour lui; la nature n’a manqué que Madame. Le soleil n’éclare qu’elle chez 
qui notre espéce n’ait point rencontré grace, et celle seule exception de la 
loi générale se rencontre avec un personnage unique. (I, vii1) 


Ecco che, quando Lélio, vacillante davanti al proprio desiderio, teme di capitolare 
non fa che evocare puntualmente uno spazio simbolico di viaggio e, insieme 
a esso, una meta che lo ricondurrebbe, come all’interno di un cerchio serrato, 
nel luogo esatto donde si é fuggiti, precisamente a Parigi, quasi a tracciare un 
percorso ormai privo di vie di scampo: 


LELIO Moi, tomber? Je pars dés demain pour Paris: voila comme je tombe. 
ARLEQUIN Ce voyage-la pourrait bien étre une culbute a gauche, au lieu d’une 
culbute a droite. 

LELIO Point de tout ; cette femme croirait peut-étre que je serais sensible 
a son amour, et je veux la laisser la pour lui prouver que non. (II, v) 


La capitale europea della seduzione e, nel medesimo tempo, di una particolare 
sociabilité, caratterizzata da specifici caratteri ideologici,” allora, potrebbe 
trasformarsi per assurdo in un luogo di romitaggio, sostituendosi per paradosso 
alla solinga campagna. La citta, infatti, diviene lo spazio ideale per dislocare 


24. Per una limpida ma densa analisi del sentimento dello stupore, connesso in varia misura 
con l’esperienza del limite, la dove, proprio nel pensiero di un Burke, assume i connotati di un 
piacere negativo (de/ighf), rimando alla sintesi di Franzini (85-91). 

25. Esemplare paladina di tale principio é, infatti, proprio quella Madama di Jasy, convocata nel 
Tempio d’Amore per esprimere la propria valutazione circa la difficile congiuntura in cui 
verserebbe in Europa la galanteria, assediata “da quella cianciatrice e saccentuzza della ragione, che 
tante volte vinta e sbeffeggiata da lui, é per antico stile sua implacabile nemica” (Algarotti 29). La 
parigina Madama, infatti, vanta davanti alle altre due invitate, l’inglese Milady Gravely e l’italiana 
Madonna Beatrice, un indiscusso primato seduttivo. 


148 ILARIA CROTTI 


sia il proprio amore (negato), sia quello altrui (auspicato e supposto) in una fittizia 
prospettiva speculare. 

Del resto, se la cifra del viaggio é trascritta nell’immaginario amoroso come 
diserzione, la sua meta non puo che prendere strade che la spingono 
progressivamente in terre via via pid remote. Lélio, infatti, man mano che la 
situazione si profila sempre piu critica, giunge a confidare al servitore: “Si je 
m’imaginais que ce que tu dis ft vrai, nous partirions tout 4 ’heure pour 
Constantinople” (II, v). 

Anche la Comtesse, da parte sua, fa ricorso alla strategia seduttiva del viaggio, 
giocando al reversino con notevole maestria, sia quando finge con se stessa di 
aver comunicato a Colombine di predisporre ogni cosa per la partenza, ordinandole 
di far “mettre les chevaux au carrosse” (III, 11), nell’intento di recarsi alcuni giorni 
dalla sorella, sia quando, immediatamente dopo, nega tutto a precipizio. E nel 
momento in cui l’astuta Colombine le chiede stupita il motivo dell’ipotizzata 
partenza, la dama, fornendo una risposta perfettamente speculare alla precedente 
di Lélio, afferma: “Pour quitter Lélio, qui s’avise de m’aimer, je pense” (III, 
ii). Indi, nelle ultime scene, nel tempo in cui Lélio amerebbe un colloquio 
chiarificatore, sara proprio Colombine che, raccogliendo l’eredita emotiva del 
messaggio della padrona, fa balenare davanti agli occhi del Monsieur, ancora 
una volta, un fantasma odeporico parigino, quale minaccia esteriore e visibile 
di un piu celato mouvement, ben sapendo che il livello del desiderio si attesta su 
valori inversamente proporzionali alle ipotesi del suo appagamento.”° 

La stasi paralizzante che, per antinomia, un addensarsi tanto insistito di 
invocazioni al viaggio suscita fonda la durata medesima delle sequenze sceniche, 
la cui estensione si sviluppa proprio lungo l’asse costruito passo dopo passo, 
grazie anche a tali intralci: esse, infatti, pur apparendo tutte bloccate in un gioco 
di reciproci dinieghi, anche se simulati e in maschera, paiono trasformare proprio 
questi ritmi ostacolanti in cadenze invece capaci di condurre le vicende per le 
vie di una progressione modulata. Se la trama , quindi, procede, dirigendosi 
necessariamente verso un ‘ultimo atto’ finale, sono appunto le deviazioni, le 
ipotesi collaterali e le sortite parallele (spesso virtuali) che ne infittiscono il 
tessuto.”” 


26. Ecco alcune battute a tema che bene esemplificano il raffinato maunivaudage dispiegantesi con 
sapiente ritmicita negli andirivient relazionali dei personaggi : 
LELIO ame — Colombine, ou est Madame la Comtesse ? Je souhaiterais lui parler. 
Colombine = Madame la Comtesse va, je pense, partir tout a ’heure pour Paris. 
LELIO Quoi! sans me voir! sans me lavoir dit ? 
COLOMBINE — C’est bien a vous a vous apercevoir de cela! n’avez-vous pas dessein de vivre en 
sauvage ? de quoi vous plaignez-vous ? (III, iv) 

Sui rapporti che intercorrono tra desiderio e mouvement, interpretatati in modo peculiare sullo 
sfondo del pensiero plotiniano, si veda Dumoulié 59-61. 


27. L’analisi di Brooks, da parte sua, tesa a individuare un modello dinamico di trama, facendo 
ricorso anche alle teorizzazioni di Todorov e Barthes, si sofferma proprio a sondare in che 
misura la semantica dell’inizio risulti determinata dal senso di una necessaria conclusione, 
enucleando due campi focali per il mio discorso: il principio del desiderio, per un verso, e lo 
spazio intermedio, dall’altro; cosi: “La possibilita dell’esistenza di significati insiti in una trama 
e in una sequenza temporale dipende dalla consapevolezza anticipata che esiste un finale e che 








MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 149 


Come rileva Barthes, mettendo in luce la natura prettamente linguistica che 
caratterizzerebbe la fenomenologia delle cosiddette ‘vie d’uscita’, tra le cui pieghe 
il tema del viaggio interpreta un ruolo certo non marginale: 


Idea di suicidio, idea di separazione; idea di ritiro solitario; idea di viaggio; 
idea di oblazione, ecc.; posso immaginare varie soluzioni alla crisi amorosa 
e difatti non faccio che pensare a questo. Eppure, per quanto alienato sia, 
io non ho difficolta a cogliere, attraverso queste idee ricorrent, una figura 
unica, vuota, che é poi quella della via di scampo; cio con cui, con compiacenza, 
io vivo, é il fantasma d’un a/tro ruolo: il ruolo di qualcuno che “se la cava”. 
Si mette cosi in luce una volta di piu la natura linguistica del sentimento 
amoroso: ogni soluzione viene inesorabilmente nnviata alla sua idea— vale 
a dire a un essere verbale; di modo che alla fine, essendo linguaggio, l’idea 
di soluzione si conforma alla preclusione di ogni via d’uscita: il discorso amoroso 
é in un certo qual modo uno sbarramento delle Vie d’uscita. (Barthes 211) 


E proprio l’ster che intraprende il linguaggio, in ogni sua fase e attraverso tutti 
i diversi gradi del percorso, rappresenta un’accezione ulteriore del topos. Divenuto 
quello silente, all’altezza dell’ultima scena, una volta che la parola si trova 
ricodificata in puro gesto, anche la consapevolezza della meta finalmente raggiunta 
acquisisce una compiuta misura; ecco che la postura di un Lélio, inginocchiato 
davanti al contegno laconico di Madame, diviene piu eloquente ed espressiva 
di qualsiasi andirivieni linguistico (“LELIO, @ genoux Eh bien ! Madame, me 
voila expliqué. [...]M’entendez-vous? Vous ne répondez rien. [...]Vous avez raison : 
mes extravagances ont combattu trop longtemps contre vous, et j’ai mérité votre 
haine.” III, vi). 

La soluzione del dilemma che perseguita la coppia padronale si offre, infatti, 
nel momento in cui il sentimento rimosso si converte in un amore accettato 
e condiviso. Quando cio avverra, all’altezza dell’expicit della commedia, anche 
le complesse strategie che afferiscono al tema del viaggio, in quanto evento via 
via supposto, paventato o solo ipotizzato, verranno a cadere, dal momento che 
quel divincolarsi forsennato tra le panie del desiderio appare, alla fine, approdato 
ad una condizione di assoluto repos, cioé ad uno dei due poli tra cui si dibatte 
senza sosta, e in un’ambivalenza intimamente dialettica, secondo Mauzi,” 


la sua forza é sufficiente a creare una struttura adeguata: essere interminabile vorrebbe dire 
essere privo di significato, e la mancanza di finale metterebbe in pericolo l’inizio. [...] Se 
all’inizio sta il desiderio, e questo desiderio si scopre poi essere in fondo desiderio della fine, 
fra i due estremi si situa uno spazio intermedio di cui ben comprendiamo la necessita (le trame, 
ci dice Aristotele, debbono essere di ‘una certa lunghezza’), ma i cui processi operativi e 
trasformazionali ci rimangono oscuri. E a questo punto che puo nivelarsi utile la pid ambigua 
delle indagini freudiane sul valore dei finali in rapporto agli inizi: potremmo ricavarne un 
modello sufficientemente dinamico di trama” (Brooks 102, 105). 


28. Nel dare conto della natura proteiforme e insidiosa che contrassegna l’immobilita, Mauzi 
osservava: “L’extase du repos consiste en un évanuissement de la durée: le temps et l’espace 
s’abolissent. [...] Le réve du repos glisse souvent vers son contraire, révélant sa secréte 
ambivalence. Jamais le repos ne s’€pure tout 4 fait du risque de la platitude ou de l’ennui. Il se 
donne comme un refus de la passion. Mais la passion, qui permet d’épuiser l’existence, n’est- 


150 ILARIA CROTTI 


limmaginario connesso al bonheur che attraversa il XVIII secolo. 

La straordinaria lezione elargita da Marivaux in materia di viaggio in Amine 
desiderii sembra essere stata ascoltata con attenzione dal Goldoni della Lacandiera:” 
una commedia in cui intorno al tema del desiderio, per un verso, e del mouvement- 
repos dall’altro, si lavora con un’intensita drammaturgica di rara rilevanza e che, 
quindi, anche per detto motivo, assumerei in qualita di campione analitico 
altamente prestigioso. Pur consapevoli, del resto, che le opzioni goldoniane, 
nel loro complesso, si dimostrano molto attente a scandagliare distinte epifanie 
odeporiche, accogliendo ed elaborando in vario modo il tema, ma anche 
parodiandone gli stereotipi pit consuntie, insieme, ponendone in grande spicco 
le implicite valenze ideologiche e semantiche.” 

La scena, che elegge come propria misura ideale una locanda (la didascalia, 
infatti, indica: “La Scena sirappresenta in Firenze nella locanda di Mirandolina’”’), 
opta per una spazialita moderatamente aperta, quale solo una dimensione pubblica, 
percorsa e vissuta da diversi frequentatoni, e, insieme, selezionatrice di distinte 
tipologie di avventori, pud ipotizzare.*' 

Su uno sfondo siffatto, anch’esso, per certi versi, liminale, quindi, posto 
com’é nel discrimine di uno spazio interno pronto a tradursi in uno esterno (e 
viceversa), campeggia una figura femmuinile, appunto Mirandolina, che si pone 
nel centro focale di ogni possibile dinamica relazionale. Ella, infatti, occupa 
un ‘territorio’ ricevuto in eredita dalla famiglia — dal padre, in particolare, gia 
evocato all’altezza di I, x come una presenza determinante— e un mestiere 
che la vede capace di gestire in prima persona e in autonomia, in quanto ‘serva’ 
divenuta ormai ‘padrona’, insomma, proprieta, beni e affetti. Cio nel tentativo 
di rimuovere il fantasma di un destino matrimoniale che parrebbe incombere 
sul suo futuro come un approdo percepito in tutta la sua inevitabile fatalita, 
pur temporaneamente scongiurato, comunque da tenere debitamente sotto 
controllo e alla dovuta distanza. 

Nel primo celebre monologo, che si rivela essere anche una sorta di lucida 
autobiografia ‘sincera’, infatti, il personaggio scandisce con vigore i propri progetti 
antimatrimonialt: 


Quei che mi corrono dietro, presto presto mi annoiano. La nobilta non fa 
per me. La ricchezza la stimo e non la stimo. Tutto il mio piacere consiste 


elle pas aussi le bonheur ? Le repos soustrait l’ame a l’aventure, aux ivresses imprévues, aux 
voluptés envoutant. Une ame toujours en repos peut fort bien devenir confinée et léthargique, 
ou facilement inquiéte, étant inassouvie. [...] Le reve du repos n’empéche donc pas des 
sensibilités oscillantes de refluer vers l’autre pole de la vie de ’ame : celui du mouvement, ou 
Pon rencontre, cote a cote, la passion et le plaisir.” (Mauzi, 333, 335, 336) 

29. La piéce ando in scena sulle tavole del veneziano Sant’Angelo nel gennaio 1753. Nelle mie 


citazioni faccio riferimento all’edizione curata da Ortolani, che riproduce la stampa 
dell’edizione Pasquali (tomo IV, Venezia, 1762). 


30. Per un approfondimento di questo duplice ordine di prospettive mi permetto di rinviare 
a Crotti, I/ carattere ed il ‘baule’: il viaggio di Giocondo. 


31. Ho cercato di approfondire le forme che, nella commedia goldoniana, assume il cronotopo 
del caffe, in quanto parametro spaziale socialmente connotato in Crotti 1993. 





MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 151 


in vedermi servita, vagheggiata, adorata. Questa é la mia debolezza, e questa 
é la debolezza di quasi tutte le donne. A maritarmi non ci penso nemmeno; 
non ho bisogno di nessuno; vivo onestamente, e godo la mia liberta. Tratto 
con tutti, ma non m’innamoro mai di nessuno. Voglio burlarmi di tante 
caricature di amanti spasimat; e voglio usar tutta arte per vincere, abbattere 
€ conquassare quei cuori barbari e duri che son nemici di noi, che siamo la 
miglior cosa che abbia prodotto al mondo la bella madre natura. (I, 1x) 


In altri termini, se il canone prescritto dal genere commedia, all’altezza 
dell’ expat, richiederebbe di norma il conseguimento di un esito matrimoniale, 
mentre, per quanto concerne la durata delle sequenze sceniche, opterebbe per 
uno sviluppo che scorre proprio tra un progettuale spazio incipitario di attesa 
e uno conclusivo di effettiva realizzazione, un cosi drastico e programmatico 
diniego di norme condivise e accettate non puo che far deviare il percorso scenico 
verso altri lidi, sbilanciandone e irrigidendone il mouvement. 

Mirandolina, infatti, si trova in bilico tra due distinti poli di attrazione, che 
costituiscono i confini impliciti di un sistema di rapporti di forza molto eloquent. 
Ecco, quindi, una linea parentale maschile, individuata, per un verso, dal padre 
defunto, la cui assenza, difatti, giunge a proiettare un’ombra lunga e inquietante, 
attivando una presenza simbolica molto netta, per un altro dall’incombente 
‘promesso sposo’, Fabrizio; il quale, da parte sua, si configurerebbe come 
un’istanza trasposta, evocata proprio dal potere patriarcale, che lo eleggerebbe 
come obliqua proiezione di un retaggio paterno.” Una direttrice ulteriore, invece, 
conduce verso un punto di riferimento del tutto femminile, dove il personaggio, 
individuato unicamente dalla specifica vitalita che emana dal sesso cui appartiene 
(e dai particolari requisiti che lo marcano), intenderebbe divenire artefice assoluto 
del proprio destino, senza alcun obbligo di accettare o subire legittimazioni 
provenienti dal polo familiare. 

Sia proiettato sullo schermo del maschile che su quello del femminile, 
Mirandolina si propone, tuttavia, come un’istanza che pare negare il viaggio. 
Ella, infatti, ben radicata nella dimensione cronotopica costituita dalla locanda 
fiorentina, non se ne allontana e non minaccia mai fughe, dal momento che 
non architetta strategie seduttive fondate su un altrove, imprecisato o definito 
che sia ... anche perché la classe sociale cui afferisce, quella di serva in carriera, 


32. Non tanto cifrate, infatti, le parole con cui Mirandolina cerca di tenere a bada le mire 
matrimoniali del proprio dipendente, il cameriere di locanda Fabrizio, giudicato con cinismo 
un utile sciocco, quando esclama tra sé e sé: “(Povero sciocco! Ha delle pretensioni. Voglio 
tenerlo in isperanza, perché mi serva con fedelta).” (1, x). Mentre, poche battute dopo, 
evocando puntualmente un fantasma paterno, gli si rivolge nei modi seguenti: “Ma che credi 
tu ch’io mi sia? Una frasca? Una civetta? Una pazza? Mi maraviglio di te. Che voglio fare to dei 
forestieri che vanno e vengono? Se li tratto bene, lo fo per mio interesse, per tener in credito 
la mia locanda. De’ regali non ne ho bisogno. Per far all’amore? Uno mi basta: e questo non 
mi manca; e so chi mi merita, e so quello che mi conviene. E quando vorr6 maritarmi [...] mi 
ricordero di mio padre. E chi mi avera servito bene, non potra lagnarsi di me. Son grata. 


Conosco il merito[...]| Ma io non son conosciuta. Basta, Fabrizio, intendetemi, se potete. 


(parte).” (I, x). 


152 ILARIA CROTTI 


non contempla ipotesi odeporiche, né vagheggia itinerari geografico-culturali 
di sorta. 

La condizione ferma e salda che vive il personaggio si rivela in modi esemplari 
nelle oculate strategie tramite cui si manifesta. Infatti, ella fa la sua comparsa, 
piombando come una meteora tra le quinte e catturando come una vera prima 
donna gli sguardi di ognuno, relativamente tardi, solo all’altezza della quinta 
scena del primo atto, quando ormai le dinamiche poste in essere dalle varie figure 
maschili che la assediano si presentano schierate su diversi fronti; da una parte 
Postilita che nutrono l’uno per altro il Conte d’Albafiorita e il Marchese di 
Forlipopoli, i quali, per paradosso, si troveranno in seguito a scoprirsi alleati, 
nell’intento di vendicarsi del presunto successo ottenuto dal terzo ospite della 
locanda, appunto il difforme Cavaliere di Ripafratta;” dall’altra Pinsinuante ma 
tenace presenza di Fabrizio, che non perde mai l’occasione per tenere sotto oculato 
controllo ’andamento della casa e il comportamento della padrona. 

Mirandolina, infatti, impone la propria autorevole sagoma presentandosi 
ai tre nobili pretendenti con un omaggio plateale: un inchino segnato da 
un’implicita valenza ironica, dove il corpo in scena (quello della seduttiva 
Maddalena Raffi Marliani, nella prima veneziana della piece), mostrandosi in tutta 
la sua ferma consistenza, espressa tanto staticamente in una postura quasi statuaria, 
quale prisma capace di rifrangere nell’immobilita, la luce che la attornia, proietta 
intorno a sé un alone di desiderio: 


MIRANDOLINA M’inchino a questi cavalieri. Chi mi domanda di lor signori? 
MARCHESE Io vi domando, ma non qui. 

MIRANDOLINA Dove mi vuole, Eccellenza? 
MARCHESE Nella mia camera. 
MIRANDOLINA Nella sua camera? Se ha bisogno di qualche cosa, verra il 
cameriere a servirla. (I, v) 


Il corpo ‘pesante’ della locandiera, infatti, se accogliamo l’epiteto in un’accezione 
metaforica, come qualita che pertiene ne] medesimo tempo a una dimensione 
negata di viaggio e, insieme, a una strategia quasi feroce, pronta com’é a stimolare 
il desiderio altrui, portandolo all’esasperazione — si ricordi quel suo “Tratto 
con tutti, ma non m’innamoro mai di nessuno” del primo monologo, cosi rilevante 
per comprendere le pieghe caratteriali di un personaggio interessato solo a 
provocare e sedurre, ma che si rifiuta di restare affettivamente coinvolto nella 
dinamica delle passioni che scatena — giungera a cristallizzarsi in un oggetto 
casalingo, appartenente all’universo simbolico del lavoro femminile, che ne 


33. Tutta la scena dodicesima del terzo atto, infatti, vede i due rivali tentare delle comuni 
strategie di rivalsa, nel cercare vie di fuga che li allontanino e dal luogo incriminato e dalla 
sagoma femminile che lo abita, invocando un’amicizia dai toni altamente sospetti : 

CONTE Vi trovero io un alloggio. Lasciate pensare a me. 

MARCHESE Quest’alloggio ... sara per esempio ... 

CONTE  Andremo in casa d’un mio paesano. Non ispenderemo nulla. 
MARCHESE Basta, siete tanto amico, che non posso dirvi di no. 

CONTE Andiamo, e vendichiamoci di questa femmina sconoscente. (III, xii) 





MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 153 


riproduce proprio lo scottante peso: un ferro da stiro rovente. 

Tutta orchestrata su inaspettate epifanie, come quella, propriamente iniziatica, 
che si situa all’altezza di I, v, cui si é gia fatto nferimento, preceduta da ben 
quattro scene di sospesi preliminari, dove gli ammiratori non fanno che attendere 
un’apparizione agognata, logorandosi a vicenda in un desiderio destinato a restare 
insoddisfatto, la commedia ‘gioca’ il personaggio femminile come una sorta 
di figura che si materializza insperata nel preciso momento in cui quello maschile, 
pit o meno coscientemente, ne percepisce l’assenza, per riservarsi poi, dopo 
averlo sedotto, di scomparire. 

Eloquenti, in questo senso, ad esempio, due scene ‘incatenate’ del primo atto, 
la quattordicesima e la quindicesima, la prima delle quali, brevissima, vede il 
Cavaliere meditare in solitudine sulla propria abilita nel neutralizzare le presunte 
furbizie del Marchese scroccone, che gli ha sorbito sotto il naso la cioccolata 
€ preso uno zecchino in prestito (I, xiii), quando, invece, si sta profilando 
all orizzonte un insidia ben maggiore: l’arrivo di un’apparentemente servizievole 
eumile Mirandolina, col pretesto di fornire “della biancheria mighiore”. Si tratta 
del secondo ingresso di lei, dopo un’assenza relativamente estesa (I, xi-xiit), la 
quale ha prodotto intorno alla sua s¢/houette una sorta di vuoto e, insieme, 
un’attrazione vorticosa. Come altrettanto significativa la dipartita strategica della 
seduttrice, immediatamente di seguito a II, viii, cioé dopo 1] pranzo ‘erotico’ 
che, con le proprie mani, ella ha imbandito all’incantato cavaliere, quando si 
volatilizza, negandosi per ben otto scene.™ 

I ritmi di tali assenze, intervallate, come si diceva, da significative presenze, 
sembrano coagularsi con grande intensita proprio in quella sequenza dello stirare: 
la dove, lungo le prime sei scene del terzo atto, l’oggetto rovente viene alluso, 
evocato e, infine, imposto con determinazione, come un marchio igneo, sulla 
mano del Cavaliere: un oggetto che, avocando a sé 1 monogrammi del fuoco 
(passione) e del ferro (dolore), capaci di far diventare il Cavaliere “cotto, stracotto, 
biscottato” (III, iti), si trasforma in metafora di un’istanza femminile sedimentatasi 
in una materia ‘pesante’, simbolo di una fuga impossibile.” 


34. Infatti, nella prima battuta della Scena nona il Cavaliere, tentando di rivolgersi ad una figura 
ormai assente, evoca proprio un siffatto andamento fugato: 

CAVALIERE Bravissima, venite qui: sentite. Ah malandrina! Se n’é fuggita. Se n’é fuggita, 
e mi ha lasciato cento diavoli che mi tormentano. (II, ix) 

Mirandolina, infatti, ritornera a battere le tavole del palcoscenico solo con la Scena diaassettesima, 
travestita da innamorata piangente, che non esita a simulare disperati svenimenti, 
rigorosamente recepiti come autentici dal Cavaliere; il quale, da parte sua, prendendo alla 
lettera il fasullo codice /armoyant e \a patticolare tipologia di bellezza, languente e sospirosa, che 
esso comporta, li legge come prova inconfutabile d’amore (“Cavaliere Mirandolina. Ahime! 
Mirandolina. E svenuta. Che fosse innamorata di me? Ma cosi presto? E perché no? Non sono 
io innamorato di lei? Cara Mirandolina ... Cara? Io cara ad una donna? Ma se é svenuta per me. 
Oh, come tu sei bella! Avessi qualche cosa per farla rinvenire. Io che non pratico donne, non 
ho spiriti, non ho ampolle. Chi é di la? Vi é nessuno? Presto ... Andero io. Poverina! Che tu 
sia benedetta!”’). 


35. Sulle valenze che detiene l’oggetto (perduto nell’altro e da ritrovare), nelle relazioni che 
intrattiene sia con il corpo che con il desiderio, colte attraverso l’interpretazione che Lacan ha 
fornito della lezione tramandata dal Stmposio, si veda Dumoulié 21-24. 


154 ILARIA CROTTI 


A detta altezza, insomma, quando ormai tutti 1 suoi maschi marchesi, conti 
e cavalieri si trovano costretti a gravitarle attorno, attratti nel turbinio di un 
desiderio che non conosce tregua, la locandiera si rivela compiutamente in tutta 
la sua crudele e greve vitalita: fulcro centripeto e, insieme, principio statico capace, 
per antinomia, di mettere in moto intorno a sé molti nuclei dinamici. Ella, allora, 
riesce a divenire attivatrice di un desiderio cui in prima persona si sottrae, e 
che la vede invece coinvolta nelle vesti di architetto di un lucido diagramma: 
un disegno ben congegnato, in grado, tuttavia, di attirare il Cavaliere in una sorta 
di furiosa e folle passione, la portata demoniaca della quale il personaggio giungera 
ad ammettere solo a se stesso la maligna forza (III, vii). 

Alcune tracce significative paiono rendere plausibile e motivata una lettura 
per certi versi parallela della Surprise marivaudiana e della commedia del veneziano 
— assonanze ed echi gia colti, per certi riguardi, dall’Ortolani *° — sia per quanto 
concerne le strategie seduttive messe in campo dalla Comfesse, in un senso, e 
da Mirandolina, in un altro, in riferimento al polo del femminile, sia, per quanto 
attiene al maschile, da Lélio e dal Cavaliere. La doppia coppia, infatti, si caratterizza 
per alcune speculari rispondenze, presentandosi sia Lélio come il Cavaliere nemici 
giurati delle donne, anche se la ripulsa del primo appare motivata da un pregresso 
tradimento muliebre, mentre quella del Cavaliere assolutamente illogica, dettata 
com’é da totale inesperienza;”’ e, d’altro canto, l’offesa che reca alle donne detta 
ripulsa si tramuta, grazie all’indubbia eloquenza che esse dimostrano, in una 
sapiente retorica camaleontica; capace com’é di mimetizzarsi per apparire 
inoffensiva, partendo all’attacco da una posizione mascherata e protetta, quindi 
dotata di probabilita piu elevate di cogliere nel segno. La parvk che accosta Comtesse 
e Mirandolina possiede in comune il tratto seguente: un andamento profondo 
che ostenta una cosi forte prossimita rispetto al punto di vista del nemico da 
pervenire a neutralizzarne gli effetti nefasti. Proprio fingendo di ‘viaggiare’ verso 
la prospettiva altrui, insomma, per avvalorarla, accettandone supinamente gli 
assunti, la padrona come la serva, entrambe maestre nell’arte del Nvp, sferrano 
un’offensiva radicale alle postazioni occupate dai due volti maschili del poliedro. 

Non offrendosi l’opportunita, in questa occasione, di dare conto 
compiutamente di una retorica siffatta, dove, per paradosso, proprio il presunto 
assenso compiacente si tramuta in arma letale (come attestano con sommo spicco, 
nella Surprise, la Scéne VII, Acte premier, e, nella Locandiera, la Scena quindicesima, 


36. Lo comprova gia la Nota storica dell’Ortolani (285-294) che corredava la commedia 
nell’ambito del volume IX delle Opere complete, alla cui analisi rimando. I] rapporto che Goldoni 
intrattenne con l’autore francese é stato attentamente vagliato anche da Gronda, soprattutto 
nelle sue relazioni con la tradizione dell’improvviso, per un verso, e con il mondo degli attori, 
per un altro. 


37. Come si autocommenta nell’Axtore a chi legge, stampato per la prima volta nel tomo II 
(1753) dell’edizione fiorentina Paperini: “Pare impossibile, che in poche ore un uomo possa 
innamorarsi a tal segno: un uomo, aggiungasi, disprezzator delle donne, che mai ha seco loro 
trattato; ma appunto per questo piu facilmente egli cade, perché sprezzandole senza 
conoscerle, e non sapendo quali sieno le arti loro, e dove fondino la speranza de’ loro trionfi, 
ha creduto che bastar gli dovesse a difendersi la sua avversione, ed ha offerto il petto ignudo 
ai colpi dell’inimico” (Goldoni 779). 


MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 155 


ancora del primo atto),** magari verificando tispetto ad una campionatura piu 
dettagliata gli stilemi che la contrassegnano, mi limiterei a prendere in 
considerazione in particolare i modi e le strategie che il tema del viaggio vi 
tappresenta. 

Se, come gia si notava, Mirandolina é simulacro ‘ferrigno’, propenso, 
insomma, ad eludere il viaggio, pur attivandone intorno a sé le derive, i personaggi 
maschili (nobili) che la circondano paiono variamente contagiati dal morbo 
odeporico. Nel simulare mosse oblique sullo scacchiere del desiderio — 
imprimendo alla propria epifania quell’andatura trasversale, cosi tipica, per 
Sklovskij, della convenzionalita dell’arte ® — ella, infatti, sa orchestrare con somma 
destrezza imboscate e, insieme, fughe apparenti che sembrano propense a radicarne 
la sagoma nel luogo esatto in cui si posiziona.”” 

Come, da parte sua, aveva gia fatto l’amico di Lélio, il Baron, cosi il Marchese 
e il Conte ostentano, evocando l’orizzonte sconfinato, ma sempre identico a 
se stesso, di un omogeneo femminino, una conoscenza del mondo femminile 
talmente navigata da renderli edotti nella libertina arte del catalogo, tra le cui 
liste la seduzione avrebbe anche potuto prendere la via dell’eccesso. La locandiera, 
quindi, risulterebbe trasfigurata in un prototipo inseribile a stento all’interno 
di un ordinato casellario, dal momento che si proporrebbe quale soggetto che 
giunge a confutare i caratteri della specie cui appartiene."' E su questo punto 
si trovera d’accordo anche il servitore del Cavaliere, che, infatti, rileva: “E una 
assai compita donna, illustrissimo. In tanto mondo che ho veduto, non ho trovato 


38. Mi limito ad osservare come detta Scena quindicesima sia tutta costruita su una perfetta 
rispondenza d’opinioni tra la camaleontica Mirandolina, per un verso, che si atteggia a 
magnificare il comportamento “veramente da uomo” del Cavaliere, e quest’ultimo, stupito 
scoprendo nella donna doti inaspettate (“Voi siete per altro la prima donna, ch’io senta parlar 
cosi’): un andamento apparentemente simmetrico, quindi, come gia rilevato a proposito della 


piéce di Marivaux, che cela nel profondo un tranello retorico costruito invece sul disarmonico. 
39. L’immagine figurata si ispira al celebre saggio giovanile di Viktor Sklovskij. 


40. Si osservi un comportamento siffatto, ad esempio, nelle battute che qui di seguito si nportano 
(II, viii), le ultime del seduttivo pranzo, quando le movenze sapientemente mimiche di una 
presunta eclissi di let non fanno che inchiodare sempre piu il personaggio femminile sulla scena, 
mentre producono nel maschile uno stato d’ansia confuso, motivato dalla minacciata scomparsa: 
CAVALIERE Si, voi siete... (con affanno) 

MIRANDOLINA _ Signor Cavaliere, con sua licenza. (s’a/za) 

CAVALIERE — Fermatevi. 

MIRANDOLINA _ Perdoni; io non faccio impazzare nessuno. (andando) 

CAVALIERE ~ Ascoltatemi. (s’a/za, ma resta alla tavola) 

MIRANDOLINA Scusi. (andando) 


CAVALIERE — Fermatevi, vidico. (con imperio) 


41. Conte e Marchese, infatti, paiono, almeno su questo punto, in sintonia: 

CAVALIERE Eh, pazzia! L’ho veduta benissimo. E una donna come I’altre. 

MARCHESE Non é come laltre, ha qualche cosa di piu. Io che ho praticate le prime dame, 
non ho trovato una donna che sappia unire, come questa, la gentilezza e il decoro. 

CONTE — Cospetto di bacco! Io son sempre stato solito trattar donne: ne conosco li difetti 
ed il loro debole. Pure con costei, non ostante il mio lungo corteggio e le tante spese per essa 


fatte, non ho potuto toccarle un dito. (I, 4) 


156 ILARIA CROTTI 


una locandiera piu garbata di questa” (II, 1). 

Mentre sempre Marchese e Conte appaiono propensi a intraprendere una 
serie di insistiti e, talvolta, molesti, viaggi/abbordaggi, pur di accostarsi 
all’ammaliatrice, per una direzione opposta, almeno in una prima fase, opta 
linesperto e guardingo Cavaliere, il quale, da par suo, da la preferenza ad un 
moto fugato; quando il primo gli confessa che ormai la donna lo ha stregato, 
egli controbatte: 


Oh! pazzie! debolezze! Che stregamenti! Che vuol dire che le donne non mi 
stregheranno? Le loro fattucchierie consistono nei loro vezzi, nelle loro lusinghe, 
e chi ne sta lontano, come fo io, non ci é pericolo che si lasci ammaliare. (I, 
xii) 


Tenersene alla larga, infatti, assurge a inderogabile imperativo categorico da 
onorare; 0, addirittura, darsela a gambe con maggiore destrezza possibile: ecco 
la scelta strategica piu opportuna (“Trattarla bene, ma andar via presto.” II, iit), 
anche se la minacciata fuga provoca un inesplorato dolore: 


Voglio andar via. Domani andero via. Ma se aspetto a domani? Se vengo questa 
sera a dormir a casa, chi mi assicura che Mirandolina non finisca di rovinarmi? 
(pensa) Si; facciamo una risoluzione da uomo. [...] 

Eppur é vero. Io sento nel partire di qui una dispiacenza nuova, che non 
ho mai provata. Tanto peggio per me, se vi restassi. Tanto piu presto mi convien 
partire. Si, donne, sempre piu diro male di voi; si, voi ci fate del male, ancora 
quando ci volete fare del bene. (II, xiv). 


Congetturare di partire per la tangente, nella fattispecie per Livorno, dato il caso, 
diviene per tempo, quindi, un’idea fissa - e, insieme, un tic verbale stilisticamente 
connotato: un’ipotetica via di scampo da perseguire con ambivalente ostinazione 
(“Per bacco! Costei incanta tutti. Sarebbe da ridere che incantasse anche me. 
Orsu, domani me ne vado a Livorno. S’ingegni per oggi, se pud, ma si assicuri 
che non sono si debole. Avanti ch’io superi Pavversion per le donne, ci vuol 
altro.” II, i; “(Domania Livorno). (da se)” II, iv;e ancora: “No, andero a Livorno. 
Costei non la voglio pit rivedere. Che non mi venga pit tra 1 piedi. Maledettissime 
donne! Dove vi sono donne, lo giuro, non vi andero mai piu. (parte” II, ix ). 

Quando poi il servitore, nel frangente meno opportuno, dinanzi, cioé, ad 
una Mirandolina che, da superba attrice quale é, di molto superiore alle due 
comiche ‘vere, appunto Ortensia e Dejanira, si atteggia ad innamorata languente 
e ripudiata, nonché priva di sensi, si presenta al suo cospetto con gli oggetti 
che evocano metonimicamente il viaggio, vale a dire la spada, il cappello e i 
bauli, eccolo dare in escandescenze, mettendo precipitosamente in fuga (si badi 
bene, speculare: “Va via, che tu sia maledetto.[...] Va, che ti spacco la testa.” 
II, xvii) chi lo minaccia con l’ipotesi di una sollecita partenza, a questa altezza 
fattasi odiosa. L’evocazione di una Livorno, convertita, cosi, in luogo salvifico 
e, insieme, purgatoriale, diventa un miraggio citato piu volte con ironia, tanto 
che la liberatoria battuta finale del Servitore, nella Scena ultima, provvede a 


MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI Sy 


trasformare il fantasma del sito e l’agognata meta virtuale in un approdo 
geograficamente definito: “Si. Il padrone va alla Posta. Fa attaccare: mi aspetta 
colla roba, e ce ne andiamo a Livorno”. 

Assediata dall’affanno erotico del Ripafratta, braccata da una passione divenuta 
folle ed esasperata, Mirandolina non potra che rinserrarsi in un luogo riparato, 
la dove non penetrano le insidie degli andirivieni del desiderio: un posto che 
si trova nel sito piu protetto della locanda, in quella camera con tre porte, cui 
invano picchia il forsennato Cavaliere (III, xiii), e tra le braccia, destinate a divenire 
coniugali, di Fabrizio (III, xiv): un ‘promesso sposo’ che si staglia quale istanza 
vocale confutante con recisione il viaggio, ‘diverso’ perché familiare (quindi, 
unheimtich), cosi dissimile da tutti quei “forestieri che vanno e vengono” (I, x). 
Sara proprio quest’ultimo a ricordare con prontezza all’impaurita locandiera 
nel momento del periglio gli incerti cui la condannerebbe il suo stato di nubile,” 
traendo il massimo profitto anti-odeporico da una situazione divenuta ormai 
di ardua soluzione. 

Ripromettendosi di divenire alla fine ‘savia’—coll’affermare nella Scena ultima: 
“Di questi spassi non me ne cavo mai piu” — listanza femminile pare accettare 
matrimonio e marito come estrema soluzione di ripiego, radicandosi in una 
condizione che, ancora piu di prima, la serra nel modello spaziale paterno, 
declinato a una tale altezza in un lessico maritale, ben consapevole che i margini 
in cui aveva disposto il viaggio desiderante altrui, a questo punto, sono venuti 
meno; e con essi anche il feroce ma vitale istinto che li aveva suscitati. Il congedo 
che siimpone nelle ultime battute agli spasimanti (“Le supplico per atto di grazia, 
a provvedersi d’un’altra locanda”), infatti, € teso a riaffermare un’eloquente 
immobilita. 

Una volta in partenza il Conte, il Marchese e il Cavaliere, nel momento degli 
adii, la scena ormai vuota sembra destinata a divenire, allora, contraddicendo 
la felicita, implicita ma necessaria, del canonico lieto fine matrimonuiale, il 
palcoscenico deserto di una passione scomparsa e negata, appunto perché il 
libero gioco della seduzione si sta tramutando in chiusa norma coniugale. I] 
desiderio in quanto esilio (Dumoulié 306), a questa altezza, pare rovesciarsi 
in un messaggio destinato a rivelarsi puramente autoreferenziale, dove lo stesso 
oggetto d’amore da l’impressione di spiazzarsi in un irreperibile altrove. 


Universita “Ca’ Foscart” di Venezia 


42. Nei termini seguent: “Vedete: questo vuol dire perché siete una giovane sola, senza padre, 
senza madre, senza nessuno. Se foste maritata, non anderebbe cosi” (III, xiv). 


158 ILARIA CROTTI 
Opere citate 


Algarotti, Francesco-Montesquieu. I/ Congresso di Citera. I! Tempio di Gnido, ed. A. Marchi. 
Napoli: Guida, 1985. 

(L”) arte di piacere alle donne e alle amabili compagnie, con una premessa di Marco Cerruti 
e una nota di Marco Catucci. Pisa: ETS Editrice, 1990. 

Bachtin, Michail. “Piano per il rifacimento del libro su Dostoevskij,” in L ‘autore e eroe. 
Teoria letterariae scienze umane, ed. C. Strada Janovic. Torino: Einaudi, 1988: 320-340 
(ed. or. Moskva 1979). 

Barthes, Roland. Frammenti di un discorso amoroso. trad. di R. Guidiert. Torino: Einaudi, 
1979 (ed. or. Paris, 1977). 

Bateson, Gregory. Mente e natura. Un’unita necessaria, trad. di G. Longo. Milano: Adelphi, 
1988 (ed.or. 1979). 

Brooks, Peter. Trame. Intenzionalita e progetto nel discorso narrativo, trad. di D. Fink. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1995 (ed. or. 1984). 

Campardon, Emile. Les Comédiens du Roi de la troupe italienne pendant les deux derniers siécles. 
Documents inédits recueilis aux archives nationales. 2 vol. Paris : Berger-Levrault, 1880. 

Carlo Goldoni 1793-1993 (Atti del Convegno del Bicentenario, Venezia, 11-13 aprile 
1994), ed. C. Alberti e G. Pizzamiglio. Venezia: Regione del Veneto, 1995. 

Crotti, Ilaria. “Il ‘mondo niovo’ del caffe,” Annak dTtahanistica 11 (1993):139-58. 

. “Tl carattere ed il ‘baule’: il viaggio di Giocondo,” in Carlo Goldoni 1793- 
1993, 271-295. 
. “Io veggio ancor...”: viaggio e visione nei Versi scio/ti del Bettinelli’, in 

I/ viaggio in Italia. Modell, sti, ingue (Atti del Convegno di Venezia 3-4 dicembre 
1997), ed. I. Crotti. Napoli: Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane, 1999, 65-92. 

Dumoulié, Camille. I/desiderio. Storia e anaksi di un concetto, trad. it. di S. Arecco. Torino: 
Einaudi, 2002 (ed. or. Paris, 1999). 

Fido, Franco. Guida a Goldoni. Teatro e societa nel Settecento. Torino: Einaudi, 1987. 

Franzini, Elio. L estetica del Settecento. Bologna: I] Mulino, 1995. 

Frontiere. ed. A. Calabro, pref. di U. Eco. Milano: I/ Sok / 24 Ore, 2001. 

Goldoni, Carlo. La locandierain Tutte le opere,ed. G. Ortolani. Milano: Mondadori, 1955, 
IV. 

Gronda, Giovanna. “Goldoni, Marivaux ei teatri parigini,” in Carlo Goldoni 1793-1993, 
205-220. 

Lotman, Jurij M. La semiosfera. L’asimmetria e il dialogo nelle strutture pensanti, ed. S. Salvestroni. 
Venezia: Marsilio, 1985. 

Luciani, Gérard. “Le compagnie di teatro italiane in Francia nel XVII secolo,” Quaderni 
di Teatro 29 (1985), 18-29. 

Mari, Michele. Venere celeste e Venere terrestre. L’amore nella letteratura itahana del Settecento. 
Bologna: Mucchi, 1988. 

Marivaux. “La surprise de l’amour,” in Theatre complet, éd. M. Arland. Paris: Gallimard, 
1949, pp. 139-192. 

Marivaux e il teatro italiano (Atti del convegno di Cortona, 6-8 settembre 1990), ed. M. 
Matucci. Pisa: Pacini, 1992. 

Mauzi, Robert. L tdée du bonheur dans la iittérature et la pensée francaises an XV II siécle. Paris: 
Colin, 1969. 

Ortolani, Giuseppe. “Nota storica” in Carlo Goldoni, Opere complete, (Venezia: Municipio 
di Venezia, 1910), 9: 285-294. 

Plebani, Tiziana. I/ ‘genere’ dei Lbri. Storie e rappresentazioni della lettura al femminile e al maschile 
tra Medtoevo ed eta moderna. Milano: Franco Angel, 2001. 





MARGINI DEL VIAGGIO: TRA MARIVAUX E GOLDONI 159 


Riva, Massimo. “Taming Desire: Asymmetnes and Reciprocity in Goldoni’s G/innamorati.” 
Annak dTtahanistica, 11 (1993): 225-249. 

Rousset, Jean. “Marivaux o La struttura del doppio registro,” in Forma e significato. Le 
strutture letterarie da Corneille a Claudel, trad. di F. Giacone. Torino: Einaudi, 1976, 
62-80 (Paris 1962). 

Sklovskij, Viktor. La Mossa del Cavallo. Libro di articoh, trad. di M. Olsoufieva. Bari: De 
Donato, 1967 (ed. or. Mosca-Berlino 1923). 

Tagliagambe, Silvano. Epistemologia del confine. Milano: Il Saggiatore, 1997. 

Varese, Claudio. “Per una proposta di confronto fra Goldoni e Marivaux.” Oxaderni 
di Teatro 11 (1981): 172-180. 


¢ 


} pore q 


lt 





ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 





Il memoriale: la parabola testimoniale e 1 
confini della memoria 


A cosa puo servire ricordare un passato che 
non puo diventare presente? (W. H. Auden) 


ella critica contemporanea, il memoriale é designato con I’e- 

sptessione “letteratura della memoria”: scrittura volta all’evoca- 

zione o alla ricerca di un “tempo ritrovato,” 1 cui miraggi illu- 
minano il “tempo presente”’ della narrazione. Nel memoriale si intersecano 
e si combinano eventi che la memoria rivisita mediante il ricordo. Tale testi- 
monianza puo essere decifrata come una raccolta in forma di annotazioni,}! 
cronache, riflessioni o frammenti filosofici, o come una monografia erudita 
su un argomento storico, letterario, scientifico, o altresi come una dis- 
sertazione accademica, nella quale il soggetto-referente esamina una que- 
stione ed espone il proprio punto di vista. Al memoriale é€ affidato inoltre il 
racconto di avvenimenti “memorabili” di cui € protagonista o testimone una 
pubblica autorita della quale si espongono o si rivelano fatti e spiegazioni a 
difesa del suo operato. Il testo memorialistico,2 non essendo facilmente 
individuabile all’interno di un’area esclusiva, é talvolta incasellato, in base a 
preclusioni nei confronti delle caratteristiche biunivoche della forma e del 
contenuto, nei piu svariati canoni letterari, quali l’autobiografia, la dianstica, 
l’autoritratto, la confessione e il resoconto di viaggio. 

Sulla base di queste ed altre osservazioni, la critica tende a mettere in ri- 
lievo nel memoriale il carattere di fonte autobiografica, intrisa di latent: sol- 
lecitazioni e arcani richiami, dai quali attingere connotazioni sulla vita di uno 
scrittore o di un personaggio e sull’epoca storica nella quale egli ha vissuto. 
Dall’esame di singole testimonianze emerge che é imperativo muoversi nel- 
Pambito di temi ed esempi e che ogni tentativo di individuare tutta una serie 


1. Riguardo all’archiviazione e alla conservazione documentaria, si veda J. Riera I Sanz, ed., 
Catdlogos de memoriales e inventarios. Siglss XIV-XIX. Archivo de la Corona de Aragon, 
Salamanca, Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura, 1999: 11. 


2. Memorialistica, storiografia, autobiografia sono apparsi come aspetti diversi di uno stesso 
genere letterario. Nel Settecento francese i memoriali miravano piuttosto a rivaleggiare con la 
storiografia, il cui linguaggio, costruito sulla retorica, mirava ad accumulare materiale pre- 
zioso per gli storici; ogni differenziazione della memorialistica dalla storiografia si basava 
soltanto su criteri stilistici. 





Annali d'Italianistica 21(2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


162 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


di opere entro limiti definiti o entro schematiche categorie é pressoché im- 
probo. Si dovra far ricorso a una visione totalizzante, dove non é possibile 
stabilire rigidi confint fra memoriale, autobiografia, diario, carteggi, 
epistolari, resoconti e altro. Approssimarsi dunque all’analisi della letteratura 
memorialistica, significa partire da un punto di vista euristico. Si apre cosi 
un varco nel labirinto delle considerazioni su opere che presentano concor- 
danti analogie fra loro, ma che si distinguono per una serie di funzioni 
interme. 


Ii memoriale: struttura e caratteristiche 
Per un’analisi metodologica, é fondamentale rilevare 1 cardini comuni a tutti 
1 tipi di memoriale, caratteristiche che non si riferiscono solo ai contenuti, 
ma ad aspetti pragmatici quali, ad esempio, la ricerca dell’essere in sé, l’e- 
splicita inclinazione a una naturale soggettivita, la mancanza di un rigido 
ordine formale, il ricorso alla rrmembranza e alle variabili connotazioni tem- 
porali che differenziano il memoriale da qualsiasi altro genere letterario. 
L’attivita della memoria si basa su un vasto numero di processi interdipen- 
denti come la ritenzione, la rievocazione, il riconoscimento, |’immaginazio- 
ne e persino l’oblio.3 Ogni evento dissepolto dalla memoria, dall’archeologia 
del sapere, per usare una metafora di Michel Foucault, appare con una con- 
figurazione inedita. Il memoriale postilla un’ipotesi collaborativa di illumi- 
nanti dizamazioni, dalle sollecitazioni emotive alle aperture interiori, alle cir- 
costanze storiche piu remote. Anticipa le attrazioni dell’intimo io nei risvolti 
incantesimal: della natura, fino alla meta della loro ricognizione suprema e si 
prefigura come un /-percorso per degustarne il consuntivo, il declino o 
lapoteosi di una avventura, cedendo spazio a una memoria sempre piu 
sfocata e leggendania. II testo sorge come riflessione materiata di memoria e 
di perenne ricreazione di fatti resi “antangibili” ed “evanescenti” nel tempo. 
Il memoriale, non essendo considerato un genere letterario a sé stante, 
ma un’opera intrisa di segni prevalentemente autobiografici, spesso si rivela 
nel suo stadio embrionale come espressione di una organizzazione discon- 
tinua di ricordi.* Poiché si presenta nella dimensione di un’evocazione in 


3. Sul meccanismo dell’oblio e sulla sua interrelazione con la memoria Maurice Blanchot scri- 
ve: “C’e nella memonia un rapporto che non possiamo piu definire dialettico, in quanto rien- 
tra in quell’ambiguita dell’oblio che é al tempo stesso il legame mediatore e lo spazio senza 
mediazione, differenza indifferente tra profondita e superficie, come se dimenticare fosse 
sempre dimenticare profondamente e d’altra parte questa profondita dell’oblio fosse profon- 
dita unicamente nell’oblio della profondita.” (420). 


4. “Aristotele distingue fra memoria e ricordo o rievocazione. Rievocazione é il recupero di 
una conoscenza o sensazione che si aveva in precedenza. E uno sforzo deliberato per trovare 
la propria strada fra i contenuti della memoria, scavando fra di essi quello che si cerca di n- 
cordare. Aristotele mette l’accento su due principi fra loro connessi: uno é il principio di cio 
che noi chiamiamo associazione, benché egli non si serva di questo termine; l’altro il princi- 
pio di ordine. [...] dobbiamo cercare di recuperare un ordine di avvenimenti originari; le cose 
pit agevoli da ricordare sono quelle che hanno un ordine, come le proposizioni della mate- 
matica”’ (Yates 33-34). 


LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 163 


forma frammentaria, é il depositario di una letteratura primaria, priva del- 
Porganicita formale tipica di una esposizione iniziatica raffigurata in prima 
persona. Al richiamo delle istanze del passato, il soggetto trascrive le pro- 
prie sensazioni e registrandole o interpretandole in consonanza con |’inten- 
sita semantica della connessione rievocativa tenta di ricostruirle in base a 
una logica di sequenze. Tuttavia, 1 singoli istanti costituiranno un insieme di 
frammenti e di associazioni la cui omogeneita € stabilita esclustvamente al- 
interno della memoria. La frammentanieta, dovuta alla rinuncia o all’impos- 
sibilita di una visione d’insteme da parte dell’autore, e l’encompiutezza, deter- 
minata dalla sporadicita aleatoria della trasmissione del pensiero, sono parti 
costitutive della definizione di “memoriale.” Si pud dunque sostenere che il 
memoriale é un’opera zm crescendo quando la fase delle sequenze volte allo 
sviluppo letterario arriva al suo acme e én decrescendo quando la materia evo- 
cativa giunge al suo epilogo, non ricevendo impulsi: dalla fonte ispiratrice 
della memoria e non trovando soluzione di continuita. 


L’autobiografia: valenze e ambivalenze 

Nell’ambito di questa concettualizzazione occorre tracciare alcuni confint 
fra il memoriale e altre forme che rappresentano la configurazione e lo Svi- 
luppo del concetto di individualita quale, ad esempio, il genere autobio- 
grafico.5 Il genere letterario che piu si avvicina al memoriale é senza dubbio 
lautobiografia.* Si pud ritenere il primo studio sistematico sull’autobiografia 
la monumentale storia del genere, scritta nel 1907 da un allievo di Dilthey, 
Georg Misch.? Ma solo con la fine della seconda guerra mondiale, e parti- 
colarmente a partire dagli anni Sessanta, con lo sviluppo degli studi su tutti 1 
generi letterari, si € cominciato a mettere a fuoco un’analisi teorica sulla 
scrittura autonarrativa “‘sia da una prospettiva formale-linguistica che stori- 
co-semantica,’’’ individuando “le specificita e 1 caratter1 che le sono pro- 


5. Nel mondo antico, per quanto non si possa certamente parlare di assenza di individua- 
lismo, é tuttavia evidente che l’autobiografia, nel pieno senso della parola, cioé il racconto 
regolare di esperienze personali, esterne e interne, ¢ un fenomeno assai raro. Questo genere 
non si sviluppa in pieno neppure nell’eta cristiana. Il mondo greco-latino tende all’abolizione 
del?'elemento personale e, nello stesso tempo, dell’elemento storico-evolutivo a vantaggio 
dell’astrazione che induce, nella letteratura, l’autore a celare la sua personalita agli sguardi dei 
suoi lettori. Per cid che conceme la prosa, solo nei circoli stoici Pintrospezione individuale 
conduce a un’analisi psicologica che prepara l’autobiografia spirituale. 


6. La parola autobiografia é un anglogrecismo. II primo uso del termine autobiography € tegi- 
strato dall’ Oxford English Dictionary, in una recensione di Robert Southey sulla letteratura por- 
toghese, apparsa sulla Quarterly Review del 1809. 


7. Si veda G. Misch, Geschichte der Autobiographie, Leipzig-Berlin 1907, 6 vol. piu due vol. 
postumi a cura rispettivamente di L. Delfoss e B. Neumann (Frankfurt am Main, 1949-69). 


8. L. Mattesini, “La politica come destino: militanza e vita nella memonialistica femminile del 


primo Novecento in Gran Bretagna e in Italia” (Tesi di dottorato, Universita di Urbino, 
1994): 10. 


164 ANNUNZIATA ©. CAMPA 


pri.”® Nonostante alcune differenze sostanziali, 1 criteri applicabili alla defi- 
nizione di autobiografia possono aiutare a comprendere le peculiarita del 
memoriale e a contribuire a stabilire ulteriori confini alla sua delimitazione 
come espressione letteraria. 

L’autobiografia costituisce il ritratto di vita che l’autore offre di se stes- 
so, ponendosi di fronte a un’immagine preconcepita di sé, cercando di 
analizzarsi e proporsi al lettore nel tempo.'° La biografia riflette una “vita in 
azione” ed é rivelatrice di un carattere. Il biografo al confronto di un ¢ter 
vitae Si appropria di un “principio ordinatore,” che libera il soggetto della 
narrazione dal “caos.” Ma anche l’autobiografia esige un’unita e una fonte 
unica centrata sul soggetto il quale, secondo Arnaldo Pizzorusso “é conce- 
pito come spettatore e come attore in uno stesso teatro: a questa conoscen- 
za € a questa rappresentazione di sé presuppongono la liberta e il primato 
della coscienza’” (185). Fra le autobiografie “classiche,” la Storca della mia vita 
di Giacomo Casanova é l’opera a cui l’autore si dedica in vecchiata, inve- 
terandola dell’esperienza della sua vita, che € oggetto del suo studio attra- 
verso una rievocazione filtrata dalla memoria e arricchita dalla storia del co- 
stume della societa del Settecento fino a farsi romanzo e riflessione filoso- 
fica. L’importanza del testo discende, oltre che dalla sua indiscutibile sto- 
ricita, dalla straordinaria forza narrativa dell’autore, che ha saputo vivificare 
i dialoghi, organizzare gli intrecci e soprattutto penetrare nell’animo dei suot 
personaggi, fino a trarne le pit: segrete risonanze. Nelle memorie storiche o 
politiche, il soggetto scrivente, pur raccontando fatti a partire da una visione 
individuale, pone al centro del discorso vicende esterne, lasciando in secon- 
do piano la storia della propria esistenza. 

Se il memoriale é la scrittura della diacronia del percorso dell’esperienza 
dell’autore, esso rappresentera palesemente un autoritratto dell’autore stes- 
so. Non é€ facile percio tracciare un confine ben definito fra memoriale e al- 
tre forme che rappresentano la raffigurazione di una personalita, come gli 
scritti di natura diaristica o confessionale. L’imposizione della rimemora- 
zione tipica del memoriale si riflette sullo stile espressivo della scrittura.!! La 
forma della trascrizione puod essere pertanto schematica (come nelle crona- 
che), psicologico-intimista (quando l’argomento richiama la sfera della vita 


9. G. Gusdorf, “Conditions et limites de ’autobiographie,” in G. Reichenkron-E. Haase, ed., 
Formen der Selbstdarstellung: Analekten xu einer Geschichte der literarischen Selbstportraits (Berlin, 
Duncker & Humblot 1956): 10. 


10. “In effetti in tutte le autobiografie si incrociano e convivono due diversi progetti: un 
progetto storiografico che mira a chiarire le circostanze storico-sociali che fanno da sfondo 
alla vicenda della propria vita, nonché il carattere dei personaggi incontrati e ogni altra 
notazione esterna alla propria intimita ma legata ai casi e ai rapporti sociali, e un progetto 
strettamente autobiografico che insiste invece sulle costanti della propria personalita in 
relazione a quei casi e a quelle circostanze e quindi sulla capacita di interpretarle in un giu- 
dizio che in qualche modo corre lungo tutta la narrazione” (Nicoletti 25). 


11. Si veda M. Foucault, L’ordine del discorso. I meccanismi socak di controllo e & esclusione della 
parola (Torino, Einaudi, 1972). 


LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 165 


interiore), controversa O retorica (quando la trattazione punta sulla difesa di 
un operato), erudita (quando l’oggetto é costituito da un’indagine conosciti- 
va dell’autore). 

Riferendosi ai generi letterari e, in particolare all’autobiografia, Jean Sta- 
robinski afferma che “occorre evitare di parlare di stile o anche di una for- 
ma legati all’autobiografia, in quanto nel caso specifico non si da stile o for- 
ma obbligata. [...] Ove il narratore assume come tema il proprio passato, il 
segno individuale dello stile riveste una particolare importanza, poiché al- 
l’autoreferenza esplicita della narrazione stessa, lo stile aggiunge il valore 
autoreferenziale implicito di un modo singolare di eloquio” (204-205). Nel 
processo rappresentativo, quanto piu si realizza l’wmanizzazione dell’essere 
nella storia,!2 tanto piu si rivela il segreto decorso della “storia intima” 
dell’individuo. E cosi, a partire da questa rivelazione, viene a mancare la ver- 
satile oggettivita nello sceverare cause ed effetti delle azioni morali, mentre le 
passioni andranno guadagnando la superficie in una scrittura dialettica e di- 
namica. 

L’autobiografia in Italia fra il Sette e l’Ottocento tende a riflettere l’am- 
biente e il clima del tempo ed é particolarmente rivolta alla definizione det 
fondamenti nascosti di un carattere e di un destino individuale, seppure af- 
frontandola talvolta in modi etici e austeri. L’interesse per la dimensione 
storica, che attraversa l’esistenza individuale, nelle memorie storiche é legato 
al sistema feudale, come ha ricordato Philippe Lejeune, notando una pro- 
fonda correlazione fra lo sviluppo della letteratura autobiografica e 1 
progressivo emergere della borghesia come una nuova classe di potere. Nel 
secolo XVIII “viene manifestandosi con un senso di orgogliosa scoperta 
quello spirito nuovo dell’individualismo ‘interclassista’ che rappresenta uno 
dei frutti pti sapidi della filosofia dei lumi” (Nicoletti 23). 

Nell’ Autobiografia'3 di Monaldo Leopardi, ad esempio, é riscontrabile la 
compresenza di una mentalita pratica e di un interesse volto a fornire una 
serie di informazioni sull’impresa comptuta nel 1823 dagli ufficiali anconeta- 


12. Nel Medioevo il tempo e lo spazio non erano definiti con esattezza scientifica. Ad 
eccezione dei deric vagantes e dei guerrieni, i viaggiatori erano pellegrini per i quali si creava un 
ampio repertorio di exemp/a e di agiografie (A. O. Campa, “S. Bona da Pisa e i Pulsanesi: pel- 
legrinaggio, luoghi di culto e diffusione monastica nel XII secolo,” in A. Mollica e R. Campa, 
a cura di, LTtaka nella lingua e nel pensiero. Roma, Ministero per i Beni e le Attivita Culturali, 
2002, 1: 75-87). Alla storia, non interpretata come percorso evolutivo, mancava il senso della 
differenza fra il passato e il presente e la proiezione verso il futuro. I passato veniva in- 
terpretato attraverso Pottica del presente, non distinguendosi fra documentazione e leggenda. 
Le cronache medievali cominciavano dalla creazione del mondo e l’interpretazione della na- 
tura era simbolica ed analogica, priva dell’idea rettilinea del tempo propria della modernita. 
La retorica, attraverso figure o tropi, non riguardava solo la forma del discorso, ma anche 
topoi o /oci communes, cio€é una serie di motivi o temi prestabiliti, per esempio, l’ostentazione 
della modestia, la contrapposizione o concessione fra il tema della vecchiaia e quello della 
gioventi. Il genere autobiografico vero e proprio nascera con il Romanticismo, ricon- 
ducendo agli elementi della soggettivita, tipici del processo psicologico dell individualismo. 


13. M. Leopardi, Autobiografia e dialoghetti (Bologna, Cappelli, 1972). 


166 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


ni nei confronti dell’invasione dei francesi. Si tratta di un documento che 1l- 
lustra il pensiero “reazionario” italiano agli albori di un’epoca improntata 
alle idee del costituzionalismo europeo. Tale autobiografia infatti, oltre a 
disegnare il profilo della personalita dell’autore, offre una vivace immagine 
della vita nelle province marchigiane sotto il governo pontificio, attraverso 
la narrazione di una concreta situazione di storia locale. Nell’autobiografia 
contemporanea, come nel caso di La neerca non ha fine. Autoliografia 
intellettuale di Karl Popper,'* si pud trovare la confluenza di generi letterari 
diversi. L’autobiografia del filosofo austriaco é il consuntivo di un lavoro in- 
tellettuale, ma é anche, e forse soprattutto, un trattato scientifico. Infatti, é 
in parte la discussione sul metodo e in parte costituisce la storia delle piu 
importanti asserzioni dell’autore, quali la ricerca scientifica come un proces- 
so ipotetico-deduttivo e la concezione della falsificabilita come criterio di 
demarcazione fra scienza e pseudoscienza. Nell’autobiografia, il racconto 
retrospettivo sulla vita individuale e in particolare sulla storia della perso- 
nalita dell’autore si dipana in un perenne ‘movimento,’ ovvero nella nar- 
razione dello sviluppo di una vita nel suo formarsi all’interno delle reali cir- 
costanze in cui si € svolta, con il baricentro spostato verso |’ autos nei suot r1- 
flessi sul mondo esterno. Nelle memorie, con uno spazio aperto agli avve- 
nimenti esterni, é invece la storicita dell’awfos a essere il centro dell’attenzio- 
ne. 


Il diario: concomitanza spazio/tempo. 

Oltre all’autobiografia, un altro genere affine al memoriale é il diario. Uno 
degli elementi che lo contraddistingue é la sua manifesta immediatezza cir- 
costanziata, in contrasto con la pre-meditazione propria dell’elaborazione 
biografica nell’autobiografia e con la rielaborazione ex post del materiale bio- 
grafico nel memoriale. Se l’autobiografia volge pr uno sguardo d’insieme 
alla sfera complessiva del soggetto e il memoriale é sottoposto alla conget- 
turabilita memorativa, il diario elabora il presente, con una finestra aperta al 
futuro, alle sue incognite e incertezze. La memoria rende disomogeneo cid 
che al momento del vissuto appariva unitario e comprensibile. Essa finisce 
per rappresentare un principio unificante solo nella volonta, esplicitata o 
meno, da parte dello scrivente di ricostruire la storia della propria perso- 
nalita come continuativa e consequenziale con il suo esito finale. 

A differenza del diario, in cui normalmente viene rispettata una suc- 
cessione cronologica delle annotazioni e la stesura del testo viene pressoché 
contemporaneamente allo svolgersi degli avvenimenti ivi descritti, il me- 
moriale evidenzia distanze temporali o discontinuita nella scrittura e il ma- 
teriale “fattografico” é sottoposto a una rielaborazione letteraria successiva 
che stabilisce l’ammontare dei ricordi e delle elucubrazioni dell’autore. Co- 


14. K. Popper, La ricerca non ha fine. Autobiografia intellettuale, tx. it. di D. Antiseri (Roma, Ar- 
mando, [1962] 1976. Si veda anche M. Zambrano, Dekrio y destino, tr. it. di R. Prezzo e S. 
Marcelli (Milano, Cortina, 1997) e “A modo de autobiografia,” Anthropos, 70/71 (1987): 69. 


LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 167 


me annota Arnoldo Pizzorusso “il diarista, se non scrive propriamente come 
sente nel momento stesso in cui senfe, certo scrive prima che la memoria 
abbia compiuto la sua opera di selezione o di distruzione. Le notazioni del 
diarista sono punti, segni, richiami che spesso la memoria sara chiamata a 
completare” (Pizzorusso 126). Il diario, scrittura pro-memoria, € comunica- 
zione con se stessi nel tempo. La struttura personale-deittica del diario con- 
ferisce al suo statuto letterario, il carattere di forma a pron della scrittura. Il 
diario “pud giungere — scrive Folena — ad abolire I’zo e puo del tutto trascu- 
rare il dato spaziale, il qu: non puo, se € diario, abolire il nunc, il punto del 
tutto in cui ciascuno di noi vive in certo modo lultimo momento del mon- 
do, in solitudine o in sincronia con altri, e fissa la sua ultima esperienza.”15 

FE’ certo anche che la teoria letteraria pud fornire strumenti teorict alla 
definizione di questi generi. Per quanto riguarda l’autobiografia, il saggio di 
Philippe Lejeune, Le Pacte autobiographique, pone 1 presupposti per un profilo 
della nozione di autobiografia, toccando temi che sono comuni anche al 
diario: “L’autobiografia (racconto che narra la vita dello scrittore) suppone 
che vi sia édentita di nome fra Vautore (con il suo nome in copertina), il nar- 
ratore e il personaggio di cui si parla. Ecco un criterio molto semplice, che 
definisce, ad un tempo Pautobiografia e tutti gli altri generi di letteratura 
intima (diario, autoritratto, saggio)” (23). Usando in parte la terminologia di 
Lejeune si pud affermare che il diario, come l’autobiografia, é la trascrizione 
che una persona fa degli avvenimenti mediati dalla propria esistenza, 
ponendo al centro dell’attenzione la sua vita e in particolare la storia della 
sua individualita. Nel memoriale la posizione del narratore differisce da 
quella del diario, in quanto essa presuppone una visione retrospetiva del 
racconto in riassunti che rimangono presumibilmente sporadici, riferiti al 
passato’ arricchiti dalla contestualita del presente. Si deve precisare che la 
memorialistica tende a rinvenire pi che a vaghegpiare una realta vissuta e 
mira a dare volto ed espressione ad accadimenti, mediante il riconoscimento 
e l’elaborazione del pensiero. Il potere evocativo della memoria arricchisce 
di allusioni e suggestioni una realta che viene assunta perentoriamente come 
rivissuta. Cid configura una tensione verso l’autenticita e la subordinazione 
del momento intellettuale (Consapevole) a quello affettivo (pulsionale) 
spinge in tale direzione. 

In Infanzia berkinese di Walter Benjamin, le immagini lontane si sovrap- 
pongono, ritagliate nella memoria, come una ideale scenografia dell’infanzia: 
1 ricordi di scuola, 1 primi giochi con le parole e con 1 colori, il microcosmo 
costituito da uno scrittoio, i lunghi viaggi dopo l’emigrazione e 1 soggiornt 


15. G. Folena, “Le forme del diario,” Ouaderni di retorica e poetica (Padova, Liviana, 1985), 2: 6. 


16. Nelle Mémoires particulitres di Madame Roland (1754-1793) si riscontrano nella stesura 
memorialistica contaminazione del genere diaristico (datazione di eventi circostanziati). I 
passi di questo tipo di memoriale documentano una intertestualita autobiografica e la nascita 
di un genere letterario nuovo. Anche in Chateaubriand la funzione gee eg aire subisce 
delle contaminazioni da parte di altri generi, rendendo il narratore un “memorialista” e in 
altri tratti, il biografo diviene un “diarista.” (Starobinski 204). 


168 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


protrattisi a Parigi, a Capri, nelle Baleari, non gli alienano la sua citta natale. 
Al suo ritorno a Berlino, il volto anonimo della moderna capitale appare pur 
sempre garantito dalla tradizione e il presente come metafora di un passato 
ritrovato.!7 La narrazione nel memoriale si snoda dunque secondo un 
duplice e ben calibrato linguaggio: della referenzialita rievocativa e della 
frammentazione della realta verso la cifra del mistero e del “segreto a voce.” 
Racconto nel quale si insedia la ricorrente specularita autore-protagonista, 
che approda cosi a un doppio percorso rappresentativo, ove cioé il prota- 
gonista € espressione delle tensioni, interrogazioni e pensieri, che bilancia la 
necessita di ricorrere a formule topiche dalla variante del classico “diario 
ritrovato.”!8 Nel campo della diaristica moderna, Soren Kierkegaard rivela 
ur individualita essenzialmente religiosa e della sua intuizione della sacralita 
€ testimonio continuo il suo Dzano.!° Tale opera, che 1l filosofo chiama “co- 
municazione diretta,” denota il suo animo come nessun altro scritto, se non 
sempre per la perfezione dello stile e della continuita del contenuto, cer- 
tamente per la profondita analitica della vita interiore che lo avvicinano a 
Sant’Agostino. La sostanza di tale produzione sono gli “eventi” stessi della 
sua vita, che intrecciandosi con il pensiero e l’immagine, vibrano dell’asso- 
luto di una tensione infinita. 

Agli antipodi, il diario-testamento, O/tobre® di Christopher Isherwood 
registra in forma cronologica gli avvenimenti quotidian durante l’ottobre 
del 1979. Con uno sguardo alla contemporaneita, senza la mediazione della 
finzione, lo scrittore inglese caratterizza persone e situazioni con rapidita 
incisiva, rivelando la sua anima attraverso la sua concezione della letteratura 
e dell’arte, della religione e della santita. Sullo stesso solco possono 
collocarsi 1 Ca/iers di Simone Weil,” nei quali l’autrice annota orientament, 


17. Si veda W. Benjamin, L’nfanzza berlinese, tr. it. di M. Bertolini Peruzzi (Torino, Einaudi, 
1973). 


18. Il diario, a differenza del memonale, si presenta in forma di annctazioni in cui sono regi- 
strati o anche commentati gli avvenimenti nitenuti piu importanti, seguendo normalmente un 
ordine cronologico. Wuthenow descrive gli elementi che caratterizzano il diario come genere 
letterario: egli sostiene che il diario é il luogo della riflessione sul proprio io e sulla ricerca di 
oggettivarsi, osservarsi, creare la propria memoria e, di conseguenza, la propria identita. Ogni 
autore ha un suo particolare modo per farlo: alcuni attraverso la nuda trascrizione dei fatti 
quotidiani, altri invece prendendo spunto dalla quotidianita per spingersi in speculazioni pi 
o meno filosofiche o scientifiche o letterario-descrittive (Wuthenow). 


19. S. Kierkegaard (Copenaghen 1813-1855) scrive un Journal 0 Diario (1851-1852), lasciato 
naturalmente inedito, dove egli direttamente parla anzitutto a se stesso “davanti a Dio.” Si 
veda il Diario (Milano, Rizzoli, 1973). Al modello kierkegaardiano si ispira il filosofo 
spagnolo Miguel de Unamuno (Diario intimo. Madrid, Alianza, 1975). 


20. C. Isherwood, O#obre, tr. it. di M. P. Tosti Croce (Milano, SEI, 1987). 


21. A Marsiglia e a New York Simone Weil utilizza, per fissare le sue riflessioni, diciassette 
quaderni tutti uguali e in gran parte datati 1941-1942. Nei Cahiers non si da del mondo una 
rappresentazione sistematica, ma vi ¢ come un niflesso nella molteplicita infinita dei suoi 
aspetti, nella sua inesauribile dialettica di finito e infinito (Quaderni, a cura di G. Gaeta. 
Milano, Adelphi 1982). 


LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 169 


intuizioni ed esperienze interiori. Nella Prospettiva di un impegno diretto 
nella tragedia europea, la sua scrittura si fa piu intensa. Scrivere per fram- 
menti corrispondeva per Simone Weil non solo a una necessita contingente, 
ma inerente alla forma del suo pensiero filosofico; gli oggetti di riflessione s1 
disponevano su piani molteplici, non coordinati gerarchicamente, lascitando 
spazio libero alla contraddittorieta dell’esistente, fino a far emergere da sé 
un equilibrio che € tensione inesauribile. Il mondo “visto reale” nella sua 
necessita e contradditorieta si riflette cosi nel testo di frammento in fram- 
mento. E, a differenza dell’autobiografia e del diario, nel memoriale si af- 
franca anche il fascino de//autorappresentazione dell’intimo e del quotidiano. Il 
senso di comphata e la costante nterdipendenza fra il narratore e il suo mondo 
narrativo rendono ineluttabili gli eventi, che non si sottraggono a una sorta 
di resipiscenza senza alternative. 

Nella cosiddetta “zona di confine” esistente fra il memoriale e le forme 
affini o somiglianti nelle caratteristiche, Wuthenow nella sua analisi inserisce 
dei testi redatti da un autore che racconta, attraverso un diario, la vita e le 
opere di un personaggio a lui prossimo o da lui commissionato.”? In questi 
casi le annotazioni o le descrizioni, oltre a riferire tematiche e finalita par- 
ticolari e toni assunti, possono nascondere elementi della personalita di co- 
lui che annota e riporta. 


La confessione: mediazione fra intimismo e rivelazione. 

Un altro genere che puo essere considerato affine al memoriale é la con- 
fessione, anche se im essa rimane ben definito il fatto che lintrospezione 
psicologica dell’autore si presenta limitata e la sua elaborazione é rivolta ver- 
so l’esterno. L’approccio scientifico dello sviluppo degli studi antropo- 
logico-culturali e microstorici spinge fino al punto da rinvenire nelle 
confessioni intime e segrete, tracce di vita spirituale, vicende intellettualt e 
sentimentali, pensiert e osservazioni. Il sondaggio di un’esperienza spt- 
tituale, gli arcana consctentiae, & all’origine della letteratura di carattere reli- 
gioso. La prospettiva etica o religiosa nei testi cristiani individua il suo de- 
stinatario direttamente in Dio e indirettamente negli uomini. Lotte, cadute, 
vittorie sono alle origini dell’esperienza agostiniana e della mistica medievale 
di Norberto di Nurgeat e di Abelardo giungendo all’introspezione nella vita 
di Santa Teresa d’Avila e alla spiritualita di S. Ignazio.” 


22. Si veda L. Monga, Due ambasciatori venextani nella Spagna di fine Cinquecento. I dari dei waggi dé 
Antonio Tiepolo (1571-1572) e Francesco Vendramin (1592-1593) (Moncalieri, C.I.R.V.I., 2000). 
Gli estensori, Costantino Garzoni per il diario di Antonio Tiepolo e Francesco Priuli per 
quello di Francesco Vendramin assumono non solo la consapevolezza della diffusione della 
realta politica e diplomatica dei paesi visitati, ma anche del loro ruolo individuale. 


23. “Ignazio costruisce un modello secolare, [...] partendo dal presupposto che sia l’anima 
umana sia la ragione sono uguali in ciascun individuo, sostiene che il suo metodo puo valere 
per tutti. Con una antimetabole si puo concludere che se Agostino interiorizza la retorica, 
Ignazio al contrario retoricizza o teatralizza l’interiorita con il metterle a disposizione una 


170 ANNUNZIATA ©. CAMPA 


Le Confesstont di Agostino sono in primo luogo un’autobiografia, un 
documento storico, presentato sotto forma di una confessio laudis lnbhca, m 
cui Dio tante volte é lodato nelle e per le sue opere. Pero la confessio laudis é 
inseparabilmente legata alla confessto peccatt. Le Conjfesstont hanno carattere, 
nei primi nove libri, di un’autobiografia retrospettiva, contemporanea nel 
decimo, e negli ultimi tre forniscono spiegazioni sulla Sacra Scrittura. In 
quest’opera Agostino attinge alle ricchezze dell’antica retorica e considera il 
racconto autobiografico come parte di un quadro teologico. 

Un sagpio di Maria Zambrano‘ ci illumina sul genere letterario della 
confessione, da Agostino a Rousseau.”> Alla filosofa spagnola il genere let- 
terario della “confessione” appare strano per due motivi di fondo, la sua 
diversita da tutti gli altri generi letterari e la sua relativa distinzione dalla filo- 
sofia. Si tratta, rispettrvamente, del suo rapporto con 11 problema del tempo 
e del genere di effetti che la confessione intende produrre sul lettore. Per la 
Zambrano, il romanzo e la poesia pongono in essere nella coscienza un 
tempo diverso dal tempo della vita, ossia un tempo immaginario o virtuale. 
“La confessione si verifica nel tempo reale della vita. [...] L’autore della 
confessione non cerca il tempo dell’arte, bensi un tempo reale quanto il 
proprio. Non si accontenta del tempo virtuale dell’arte” (42). Per il sog- 
getto, la confessione scaturisce da una fuga da sé, alla ricerca di acquisire 
lintegrita totale in una istanza superiore: “fuga da sé nella speranza di nitro- 
varst” (50). 

Nella larga messe di confessioni dell’epoca moderna vi sono autori che 
non sono appagati della loro visione soggettiva, ma provano un’esigenza di 
di effettivo distacco dal proprio vissuto. Esemplari di uno dei dilemmi della 
confessione sono le Confession di Paul Verlaine, che aveva conosciuto e 
cantato le esperienze piu opposte: l’ovattata infanzia borghese, il turbinoso 
sodalizio con Rimbaud, la vita dell’mpiegato e del vagabondo, la conversio- 
ne religiosa, amori delicatissimi, la prigione e la gloria incontestata. Ma con 
le sue Confesstoni Verlaine non ha voluto introdurci nei suoi segreti, ma darc1 
soltanto delle “note della sua vita,” fugpitive e malinconiche, torbide e inno- 
centi. 


griglia narrativa e drammatica entro cui adagiare le manifestazioni spirituali dell’io” (Battistini 
34). 


24. M. Zambrano, La confessione come genere letterario, tr. it. di E. Nobili, (Milano, Mondadon, 
1999). 


25. Les Confessions di Rousseau nascono non pil come testimonianza storica, ma come 
abbandono alla memoria, nel tentativo di un massimo di trasparenza dell’anima. Da esigenze 
in parte simili nasce anche la Vi#a (1787) di Vittorio Alfieri nella quale si riscontra il tentativo 
dell’autore di offrirsi allo sguardo dei posteri e di dare alla propria vicenda il risalto pro- 
blematico delle cose concrete. Si pud dire che alla quantificazione del tempo e dello spazio 
come entita oggettive ed esteme, praticata dall’organizzazione sociale e dal senso comune, si 
contrappone una loro qualificazione e valorizzazione come entita del tutto soggettive. 


26. Si veda P. Verlaine, Confessconi, tr. it. di S. Bacini (Milano, Adelphi, 1984). 


LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 17a 


Franz Kafka, oltre alla Lettera al padre, scritto di insostituibile valore 
autobiografico, lascia una raccolta di scritti dal titolo Cownfesstont e 
immagin® che risultano un quadro caleidoscopico in cu, allo stato pu denso 
e frammentario, eppur sempre intimamente conchiuso, si rinviene cid che 
distingue la voce piu autentica dello scrittore praghese. La serie di con- 
fessioni, pensieri, fantasie rivelano il senso misterioso del cosmo, un mondo 
dove il quotidiano e il magico si fondono senza scorie. 

Nell’epoca attuale, nella maggior parte dei lavori sperimentali, la ten- 
denza, intrapresa da alcuni scrittori americani, di trasformare la realta in im- 
maginazione, ha portato il romanzo-confessione a degenerare in una antt- 
confessione. La convenzione letteraria del narratore di assumersi la respon- 
sabilita di presentare un resoconto obiettivo di frammenti rappresentativi 
della realta é stata abbandonata anche perché, come dichiara Kurt Von- 
negut, lo scrittore, collocandosi al centro della scena come protagonista del- 
l’azione, compromette la possibilita del lettore di credere a cid che legge.” 


Memoriale e storia. 

Il compito cui il testo memorialistico assolve non é solo un lavoro di recu- 
pero, bensi anche un deliberato percorso di autoanalisi che serve a indi- 
viduare e a decifrare 1 fantasmi della memoria per riuscire a ripercorrerli, a 
comprenderli e infine a trascriverli. L’esercizio di una mise en abime nella 
scrittura memorialistica é il resoconto in prima persona del ritrovamento del 
vissuto quotidiano in un contesto storico, sociale e politico. L’attenzione 
della letteratura inoltre si sposta sulla difficile rappresentazione di questo 
inabissamento dell’io e nell’io che é una delle possibili ‘avventure’ altemati- 
ve dell’uomo nella sua realta. Rammentare é quel processo attraverso il qua- 
le l’autore ritrova e riconosce un senso alla propria esperienza biografica. 
Nelle sue fasi di apertura verso l’esterno, I’Io si costituisce attraverso la co- 
struzione di un personale pantheon di figure mitiche, una ricca tipologia di 
modelli, di possibili e contraddittori fatti e/o oggetti di identificazione. La 
scrittura rappresenta quindi un momento ulteriore della memoria, dove 1 
ricordi si decantano e si elaborano, dove le immagini sedimentate rivelano 1 
loro significati riposti. In tal modo, il testo € attraversato dalla sonda di mol- 
ti saperi e di molte pratiche culturali, ma soprattutto rappresenta modi e di- 
rezioni di esposizione a doppio movimento. La narrazione é€ resa in un’ana- 
lisi contrapposta: da una parte, in forma di scavo e di superamento, di evo- 
cazione e di esorcizzazione; dall’altra, in un desiderio di autocelebrazione e 
autocompiacimento che sono tra le trappole disseminate sul terreno della 
memorialistica. Una ulteriore direzione, tra vite comuni e vite eccezionali, 
incentra l’attenzione su quel punto di incontro fra individuo e societa, che € 


27. Si veda F. Kafka, Confessioni e immagini, tx. di I. A. Chiusano, A. Rho e G. Tarizzo (Milano, 
Mondadoni, 1960). 


28. C. Lasch, Laz cultura del narcisismo. L’individuo in fuga dal sociale in un’eta di disillusioni collettive. 
Confessione e anticonfessione (Milano, Bompiani, 1979): 32. 


172 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


il luogo specifico della formazione della soggettivita. E si dovrebbe 
ageiungere che i potenziali percorsi memorialistict si trovano di fronte a 
influenti modelli: quelli dominant: nella scrittura storica dettati dalla 
tradizione ufficiale di certa letteratura di carattere storico-politico.”° 

Circa il nconoscimento della personalita pubblica del protagonista — la 
cui identificazione € quasi sempre dichiarata fin dai titoli, che senza pos- 
sibilita di equivoci lo caratterizzano sulla base del suo ruolo sociale — sono 
esclusi in parte dalla trattazione gli ambiti piu privati. Per tentare di orga- 
nizzare la propria esperienza in una forma comunicabile, gli autori la con- 
densano materialmente e la integrano con gli avvenimenti di un periodo sto- 
rico. L’affinita del memoriale con la storiografia é data dal fatto che l’origi- 
nale (la realta del passato) e la ri-produzione (quella realta nel presente) si 
identificano in una ipostasi che consente di stabilire non tanto un nesso cro- 
nologico, quanto piuttosto logico fra uno e l’altra. Il ricorso alla memoria, 
nei confront: del tempo, si delinea altresi come una sorta di perfettibilita ac- 
cattivante e la suggestione della distanza temporale € un indizio di quell’im- 
presa memorialistica nella quale si decantano e si grustificano gli avve- 
nimenti. Nell’ambito della memorialistica “storica,”3° la memoria insinua 
stati di esperienze passate, di conoscenze precedenti, immagini, nozioni ed é 
in grado di localizzarle nello spazio e nel tempo e di farle coincidere con 
una verita storica.?! A riprova della biunivocita del fapporto memoria-storia, 
lo scambio metaforico fra 1 due campi semantici tuttavia non sempre 
assevera il valore di veridicita della storia. E cosi dalla lettura delle Mémorres 
dautre-tombe di Chateaubriand si evince che il tempo storico e quello inte- 
riore non procedono parallelamente nella coscienza dello scrittore, perché 


29. Si veda R. Fabbri (a cura di), La memorialistica venexiana in latino del Quattrocento: Filippo da 
Rimini, Francesco Contarini, Coriolano Cippico (Padova, Antenore, 1988). 


30. In Italia, le storie regionali indicano una fioritura di scritture memoriali tra cui spicca la 
citta di Firenze con un ingente repertorio di testimonianze fra Medioevo e Rinascimento. 
Illuminanti per un analisi della storiografia economica fiorentina, nonché della sensibilita 
delPumanesimo e delle concezioni dei mercanti scrittori, emergono le pagine di Giovanni 
Morelli, Buonaccorso Pitti, Donato Velluti. A Firenze si sviluppa, nella sua completezza, la 
forma memoriale per eccellenza, il libro di ricordanze e si addiviene a una separazione fra 
queste e le cronache familiari. “Sottile anche la distinzione dell’uso di una diversa termi- 
nologia per il tipo di argomenti trascnitti: ‘ncordanze’ nel caso di fatti patrimoniali, ‘me- 
morie,’ nel caso di quelli strettamente genealogico-familian, da tener presente nel momento 
di formulare una definizione delle categorie dei libri di memorie fiorentini” (F. Pezzarossa, 
“La memonialistica fiorentina tra Medioevo e Rinascimento,” Lettere Itakane, 31 (1979): 119- 
120). L’wsus seriben& della cultura fiorentina costituisce un singolare corpus letterario,; mo- 
dellato dalla pratica con l’ambiente notarile fa si che le ricordanze, nelle loro caratteristiche 
estreme siano somiglianti con i protocolli e nel dettato con evidenti derivazioni dal for- 
mulario dei documenti notarili. Infine, dai memoriali, specchio dell’-humanisme marchand 
fiorentino, é opportuno rammentare i memoriali degli artisti, fonti eccellenti di storia dell’arte 
e notevoli affreschi della sensibilita artistica del Rinascimento nel campo del arte. 


31. Si veda M. Ciccarini, “Immagini del turco nella memorialistica del Cinquecento” (Tesi di 
dottorato di ricerca, Universita degli Studi di Roma ‘La Sapienza,’ 1989). 


LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 173 


egli, nel rappresentare l’epopea del suo tempo, stabilisce un confronto 
costante fra il passato e il futuro della storia, cosi come fa un raffronto fra il 
suo passato e il suo futuro.*2 

Bastano brevi cenni a mostrare l’eccezionale importanza che le Memone 
dal sottosuolo> di Dostoevskiy ha oggi per l’esegesi di tutta l’opera dello 
scrittore russo, nella quale il contrasto tra Russia e Europa ha avuto un po- 
sto del tutto primario, e quindi indispensabile per capire il comportamento 
di piu di un eroe nei suoi romanzi. Il nucleo principale é la critica delle 
riforme di Pietro il Grande, critica che si compendiava per Dostoevsky pro- 
prio nell’accusa che le riforme avevano causato quel distacco di classi che 
per duecento anni aveva pesato sulle sorti del popolo russo. Con questi 
presupposti é€ facile arrivare al Diano di uno scrittore* per conoscere lo svilup- 
po di queste idee di Dostoevskij, espresse nel 1873. Ma le Memone dal 
sottosuolo, tispetto al Diano di uno scrittore, costituiscono una necessita spiri- 
tuale, una pausa di raccoglimento e nello stesso tempo l’avvio di un con- 
tatto immediato con la realta, da cui lo spirito dello scrittore ricavava in 
forma originale il suo nutrimento. Nella disamina dell’attivita critica € stata 
segnalata l’importanza di tale opera per la comprensione della personalita di 
Dostoevsky; il suo valore letterario e la sua esperienza individuale di grande 
artista che aveva intravisto che l’arte puo assecondare questa 0 quella causa, 
dati gli “enormi mezzi” o le “grand: forze” che ha in sé. All’autore fu for- 
mulata l’accusa di mancanza di principi e di sistematicita e l’assenza di una 
propria concezione filosofica: Dostoevskij non aveva mai avanzato la 
pretesa di avere alla base delle proprie osservazioni degli avvenimenti una 
Weltanschauung di tipo filosofico, ma una “concezione della vita” di carattere 
strettamente personale, fondata su alcuni punti di vista che potevano essere 
messi in discussione. Grossman ha rilevato come Dostoevski non credesse 
nell’unita organica della materia come fondamentale dell’opera artistica, ma 
ritenesse che l’ampiezza e la potenza del moto vorticoso dei personaggi e 
degli avvenimenti intorno a un’unica idea dovesse creare la sintesi degli 
elementi contrastanti. E da segnalare che rispetto alla memorialistica 
settecentesca, quella dell’eta ottocentesca e romantica presenta profonde 
differenze. Diverse sono le figure sociali degli autori, diversi 1 destinatari, 
diversi gli intenti. A scrivere le loro memorie non sono piu letterati 


32. Sul’onda delle memorie di Chateaubriand, il genere dei mémozres diventa particolarmente 
rappresentativo di una epoca nella quale, attraverso l’esempio di Rousseau, gli scritton 
cominciano a sentire in maniera sempre pit massiccia l’esigenza di intraprendere il racconto 
della loro vita con l’evocazione dei ricordi della loro infanzia e della prima giovinezza, una 
prassi del tutto ignota alle epoche precedenti. (R. Scarcella, “Gli accenti della nostalgia. La 
nostalgia dell’infanzia nella letteratura memorialistica da Réstif a Chateaubriand” (Tesi di 
laurea, Universita degli Studi di Torino, 1994: 6) 


33. F. M. Dostoevskij, Le memorie dal sottosuolo (Milano, Rizzoli, 1963). 


34. F. M. Dostoevskij, Diario di uno scrittore, a cura di E. Lo Gatto (Firenze, Sansoni, 1963). In 
tale opera Pautore ritenne di valutare lo spirito del popolo e di poterlo nassumere in una 
constatazione di valore autobiografico. 


174 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


cosmopolitici come Alfier1 e Goldoni*5 — 1 quali si rrvolgono a una stretta 
élite di intellettuali — ma patrioti che intendono influenzare l’opinione 
pubblica inducendola ad aderire agli ideali risorgimentali.5° L’intento della 
nuova memorialistica non é teso all’autocelebrazione, bensi alla volonta di 
testimoniare l’incontro fra individuo e storia: fra un’ideologia e il divenire 
storico. La memorialistica € in questo pertodo uno dei generi p1u fortunati e 
di pit: largo successo: non per nulla Le ze prigconi di Silvio Pellico é uno dei 
libri pu popolari dell’Ottocento, non solo in Italia, ma anche in Europa. 
Dopo I’Unita non mancano tentativi di delineare inter: memoriali, come nel 
caso det Mzec nivordi di Massimo d’Azeglio e delle Ricordanze della mia uta di 
Luigi Settembrini. Numerosi testi di patrioti e letterati, sul piano ideologico, 
collaborano alla trasformazione delle gesta garibaldine in memoria 
celebrativa, talvolta con opposti spiriti polemici.3”7 Ma la memorialistica s1 
intreccia con il romanzo, poiché nella voce narrante si compie una sorta di 
ipostasi tra narratore e protagonista. Fra autobiografia e romanzo esiste una 
serie di gradazioni; se il romanzo autobiografico costituisce un genere a sé 
stante, vi € pure uno spostamento della formula dell’autobiografia ai margini 
del romanzo (Pizzorusso 200-201). Nel XVIII secolo, le scritture definite 
come “letteratura dell’io”, in particolare, le memorie storiche, la biografia e 
il romanzo autobiografico hanno uno sviluppo quantitativo. I legami fra 
scrittura autobiografica e romanzo diventano piu stretti dal punto di vista 
delle tecniche narrative, e si estendono all’epistolario e alla letteratura intima 
(Nicoletti 27). Quanto alla biografia romanzata, documentazione e 
interpretazione puntano sulla ricostruzione di un carattere in una simbiosi 
tra immaginario e memoria storica. Dalla biografia erudita del Sette e 
Ottocento, un il genere che accoglieva materiale documentario, si giunge al 
Lebensroman di Casanova e, all’opposto, al romanzo biografico (Battistini 
2001-2002), come E/ general en su Laberinto di Gabriel Garcia Marquez. 

Fra 1 memorialisti dell’Ottocento, “chi scriveva le proprie memorie re- 
stava assai spesso, anche per I’impegno civile da cui era animato, a meta 
strada fra il documento e I’arte, tra l’ansia di fissare la verita degli av- 
venimenti e l’impulso a riviverli liberamente in una trasposizione fantastica 
[...]. D’altra parte il carattere documentario delle memorie, continuamente 


35. Si vedano di F. Fido, Da Venezia all’Europa. Prospettive sull’ultimo Goldoni (Roma, Bulzoni, 
1984) e Le muse perdute e ritrovate. Il divenire dei generi letterari fra Sette e Ottocento (Firenze, 
Vallecchi, 1989); Letterat, memorialisti e viaggiatori del Settecento, ed. E. Bonora (Milano-Napoli, 
Ricciardi, 1951). 


36. Si vedano G. Trombatore, Memorialisti dell’Ottocento (Milano-Napoli, Ricciardi 1953) e P. 
De Tommaso, Oxel che videro: saggio sulla memorialstca garibaldina (Ravenna, Longo, 1986). 


37. Sulla memorialistica nell’eta romantica si citano le figure e le loro opere pit note: Isabella 
Teotochi Albrizzi, Retratt, Carlo Bini, Manoseritto dt un prigioniero, Giovanni Ruffini, Lorenzo 
Benoni, Giuseppe Cesare Abba, Da Quarto al Volturno, Francesco Domenico Guerrazzi, 
Apologia, Carlo Farini, Lo Stato Romano, Antonio Bresciani, Costume dellisola & Sardegna, 
Giovanni Costa, Quel che udi e quel che intesit, Giuseppe Bandi, I Mille, Eugenio Citecchi, 
Memore d un garibaldino, Giuseppe Guarzoni, Garibaldi. 


LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 175 


fuso con 1 sentimenti, la convinzione, gli ideali dello scrittore, questo inces- 
sante oscillare fra letteratura e la cronaca, tra il fatto e la sua rievocazione 
appassionata, Creava una forma narrativa che é un tramite, assai piu che non 
si pensi, verso il contemporaneo romanzo storico e, piu ancora, verso la 
produzione successiva del verismo.””* 

La scrittura memorialistica perO non rimane immune alla finzionaliz- 
zazione del processo descrittivo. Pino Fasano mette in guardia il lettore da 
questa strategia comunicativa, che non rappresenta alcuna necessita di ve- 
rosimiglianza dietro questa scelta (65). Spesso questo tipo di decisioni 
dipende dal “patto narrativo” che l’autore propone al lettore, per suggerire 
una sorta di illusione di verita del narrato, per rendere credibile l’onniscien- 
za del narratore. Tuttavia tutto cid ha creato condizioni favorevoli all’af- 
fioramento del meccanismo memorialistico, che si diffonde come una prassi 
in espansione: alla memoria si risponde con la memoria, come lo dimostra 
Pesperimento di collaborazione memoriale che stimola il canale della testi- 
monianza. Quello memoriale € un processo in costante progressione, una 
reazione a Catena: all’autobiografia si risponde con la biografia, come so- 
stiene Swindells,2® perché essa stimola quella mobilitazione memoriale e 
fantasmatica da cui dipende, secondo Lejeune, l’autoconsapevolezza dell’lo: 
“L’lo si presenta spesso come una eco. Come la ripresa di una parola che 
circola. Come una risposta, non meno che come un ascolto” (Lejeune 23). 


Le percezioni dellio: la pluralita dell’individuo nelPindividuo. 

Nella scrittura memorialistica, l’40 finzionale’ tende a dar voce a un 
principio di natura letteraria, atto a rappresentare il fondamento principale 
dell’essere individuale, che si esprime attraverso 1 mezzi della creazione 
intesa come ricerca di identita. 

Nel caso delle Confession di un itakano di Ippolito Nievo una coscienza 
linguistica rivela la sopravvivenza di una giustapposizione o dualita di piani 
fra autore e personaggio. La creazione si configura come tensione fra 
soggetto e stato d’animo, interiorita e mondo esterno. Tale prospettiva si 
ritrova, in modi e forme diversi, anche in molt: testi del Leopardi.*° 

Per un’analisi delle varie possibilita di oggetivare il proprio io, bisognera 
partire, secondo Jurgensen,*! da alcune premesse filosofiche. Johann Gott- 
lieb Fichte, nella sua critica all’istanza morale kantiana, identifica l’astratto 
mondo noumenico con un piu concreto e tangibile mondo fatto di identita 
individuali, la cui etica nasce proprio dal rapporto che si instaura nella con- 
vivenza fra esse. Le varie istanze individuali che costituiscono il mondo del- 


38. C. Cappuccio, a cura di, Memorialisti dell’Ottocento, (Milano-Napoli, Ricciardi, 1957) 1: ix- x. 
39. J. Swindells, Victorian Writing and Working Women (Oxford, Polity, 1985): 197. 
40. Si vedano “La sera del di di festa” e “L’infinito.” 


41. Si vedano M. Jurgensen, Das fiktzonale Ich. Untersuchungen xum Tagebuch (Bern, Francke, 
1979); R. Barthes, Critica e¢ verita (Torino, Einaudi, 1969) e M. Guglielminetti, Memona e 
scrittura. L’autobiografia da Dante a Cellini (Torino, Einaudi, 1977). 


176 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


le esperienze si realizzano attraverso un incessante processo di oggettiva- 
zione dell’io. Tale processo si sviluppa nella sfera intangibile del pensiero e 
rimane sotto forma di catena fatta di riflessioni, pensieri e ricordi non 
manifesti. Per trasformare questi pensieri in parole e/o in scrittura, per 
poter documentare il proprio 10 e la propria storia individuale e morale, il 
soggetto dovra servirsi del linguaggio e della retorica. Nell’ambito della do- 
cumentazione scritta di questo processo non avra luogo un’auto-ogget- 
tivazione, bensi una rappresentazione soggettiva del non-io, in quanto é 
proprio questo il contenuto del pensiero, l’oggetto dell’attivita dell’1o. 

Secondo Jurgensen, tutta la letteratura si basa sul rapporto dialogico 
dell’io con se stesso nel processo di realizzazione linguistica e comunicativa. 
L’osmosi esistente fra 10 e non-1o si determina nella sfera personale delle 
sensazioni, mentre la comunicazione fra l’1o e Vio finzionale si esprime 
appieno e al meglio nella letteratura. L’io si frantuma in una serie di perso- 
naggi che interagiscono fra loro secondo leggi e regole prese in prestito dal- 
la socteta. Questi personaggi, poi, non sono altro che variazioni dell’io 
finzionale, in quanto ogni creazione artistica é l’espressione del divenire 
oggetto dell’io finzionale, ovvero l’oggettivazione (estetica) di un’esperienza 
soggettiva. La memoria individuale si moltiplica nell’incontro con altre 
memorie, sedimentate come arenarie e di cui affiorano frammenti in im- 
provvise illuminazioni. Le memorie confluiscono cosi le une nelle altre, e 
talvolta riesce difficile sceverare le une dalle altre. 

La memoria puo seguire un doppio movimento: far fluire dentro 1l per- 
sonagpio le voci che vengono da lontano, il quale le assorbe e le fa diventare 
parte di sé, o anche quando le oggettivizza su se stesso si assume |’impegno 
di identificarle, sfuggendo a una meccanica memoriale. Nella scrittura 
memorialistica l’io € una luce, un pathos, un groppo di sentiment che sigilla 
e imprime il connotato dell’essenza vissuta, l’occulta tensione degli eventi a 
cospetto dell’evolvere segreto della coscienza. Nei memoriali, l’oggetti- 
vazione dell’io si esplica altresi nell’io finzionale nato dalla mente dell’autore 
per rispecchiarvisi, riconoscersi e capirsi. In definitiva, il memoriale non é€ 
altro che lo spazio di ricerca intima dell’io attraverso una sua oggettivazione. 
In esso si realizza appieno la liberta dell’autore di autodefinirsi let- 
terariamente, ovvero di completare la propria personalita, arrivando a una 
piena realizzazione individuale, sebbene in tale processo essa rimanga an- 
corata alla sfera della rrmembranza. L’1o trova anche il modo di uscire dal 
proprio isolamento e dalla propria introspezione alla ricerca di un’inte- 
razione con le altre istanze individuali e sociali. La dimensione psicologica 
dell’io raggiunge da ultimo la pienezza dell’ambito della sua oggettiva- 
zione.#2 L’identita autore-narratore nel memoriale si realizza tramite l’uso 


42. Jurgensen individua tre livelli di oggettivazione corrispondenti a tre stadi di allontana- 
mento dalla soggettivita. Se consideriamo le varie fasi di trasformazione di un pensiero, che 
ha necessariamente una genesi di tipo soggettivo all’interno del memoniale, ci si rende conto 
come, al propagarsi, si renda autonomo. Dal ricordo puo scaturire un pensiero che verra poi 
riportato dal soggetto nel memoniale come espressione del proprio io. Questo processo cor- 





LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 77 


della prima persona e la descrizione dei fatti si inserisce allora nella defi- 
nizione di Genette come “narrazione autodiegetica.” A seguito di questa 
affermazione si pone la questione di tipo prettamente linguistico, legata alle 
due categorie di “referenza” ed “enunciato.” Ma la concomitanza fra refe- 
renza ed enunciato esiste all’interno di un discorso e l’1o, identificato con la 
voce che narra, segna l’identita fra il soggetto dell’enunciazione e quello 
dell’enunciato. La memorialistica € dunque rivelatrice di quell’individualita 
“espressiva’”’ che si estrinseca tramite una rimozione interiore a dimensione 
stratificata. Un’approfondita riflessione puo mettere in discussione la verita 
o veridicita del contenuto. La verita espressa puo risultare illusoria in 
quanto l’illusione accade in virtu della lunga distanza temporale che in- 
tercorre fra gli avvenimenti e la loro trascrizione. I] contenuto di verita di un 
memoriale, non solo viene ridotto da potenziali falsificazioni riguardo agli 
eventi accaduti e poi riportati, ma anche dalla consapevolezza che cid che 
viene espresso attraverso la scrittura, rappresenta soltanto una relativa parte 
dei pensieri e dei sentimenti vissuti. Un altro elemento falsificatore é 
causato dal tentativo, per la maggior parte dei casi, inconscio, di dare alla 
propria personalita un’immagine diversa da quella reale. Alcuni memorialisti 
hanno la tendenza a rappresentarsi idealmente, piuttosto che esternare un 
calco della propria personalita, oppure, nell’incertezza rendere un quadro, 
sia iN positivo che in negativo, deformato di sé. Un altro tipo di falsi- 
ficazione é quello che si realizza nel caso in cui il memorialista abbia come 
modello un altro o altri memoriali ai quali ispirarsi. In altri termini nessuna 
scrittura é davvero per sé; essa ipotizza e postula l’esistenza di un futuro let- 
tore che riceve e valuta la testimonianza dell’io depositata nel/con il testo. 


Da Proust a Deleuze: i meccanismi della memoria. 

Sotto la spinta delle sollecitazion: intellettive e sensitive, la memoria volon- 
taria o involontaria fornisce un apporto decisivo all’interpretazione dei se- 
gni. Deleuze, inoltrandosi nei labirinti inestricati e inestricabili della me- 
moria, riguardo ai ricordi che 1 personaggi della Ricerca del tempo perduto di 
Proust “non sanno di ricordare,” afferma che la memoria affettiva o zn- 
volontana interviene in funzione di una specie particolare di segni: 1 segni 
sensibili. “Percepiamo — scrive Deleuze — una qualita sensibile come un se- 


risponde alla prima fase dell’oggettivazione. La seconda fase dell’oggettivazione vede un 
postulato generalizzante agganciarsi alla riflessione personale. La dimensione del pensiero 
soggettivo si allarga e si adatta alla discrezione di un concetto universale (felicita, glona, 
vittoria, noia, violenza). Un sentimento comune a tutti gli esseri umani viene “reso” a tutta 
Pumanita. In un terzo stadio, questa riflessione si libera dai vincoli temporali e storici, che la 
legavano a un preciso istante della vita di una persona e diventa pensiero indipendente. Que- 
sta ultima fase si esplica al meglio nell’aforisma, scarna rappresentazione di un processo 
formativo che ha alla base un input estemo al soggetto. In questo caso, cid che rimane di sog- 
gettivo sara lo stile, l’eco della personalita da cui é scaturito il suo mondo, la sua epoca, la sua 
Jorma mentis. Tl grado di oggettivita raggiunto dall’aforisma é un po’ limitato, in quanto il sog- 
getto non puo sfuggire al proprio io, ma é uscito dalla dimensione propriamente soggettiva. 


178 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


gno, e un imperativo ci spinge a cercarne il senso. Pud accadere allora che la 
memoria involontaria, direttamente sollecitata dal segno, ci sveli questo 
segno. [...] In un secondo luogo constatiamo che questa memoria inv0- 
/ontana non possiede il segreto di tutti 1 segni sensibili: alcuni si riferiscono 
invece al desiderio, e a figure dell’tmmaginazione [...]. E per questo che 
Proust distingue due casi di segni sensibili: le reminiscenze e le scoperte” 
(51). Il complesso meccanismo psicologico delle remiiscenze é “un mecca- 
nismo associativo: da un lato, rassomiglianza tra una sensazione presente e 
una sensazione passata; da un altro, contiguita della sensazione passata con 
un insieme vissuto un tempo, che risuscita sotto l’effetto della sensazione 
presente” (53). La memoria volniana al contrario va “da un presente attuale 
a un presente che ‘€ stato,’ vale a dire, a qualcosa che fu presente e non lo é 
piu. Il passato della memoria volontaria € dunque doppiamente relativo: 
relativo al presente che € stato, ma anche relativo al presente rispetto al 
quale esso é ora passato” (54). E come affermare che questa memoria “non 
afferra direttamente 11 passato: lo rrcompone per mezzo dei presenti.” (54). 
La memoria volontaria procede per mezzo di istantanee e crede di trovare il 
segreto del ricordo nel succedersi dei presenti e nella percezione cosciente 
degli oggetti. La contiguita fra la percezione cosciente e la memoria volon- 
taria stabilisce una successione reale la dove vi era una coesistenza virtuale 
della durata o distanza del tempo. Per Deleuze, passato e presente non desi- 
gnano due momenti successivi, ma due elementi che coesistono, di cui l’uno 
é il presente, che non smette mai di passare, mentre l’altro é il passato, che 
non smette mai d’essere e per Cui tutti 1 presenti passano. Il ricordo é dun- 
que contemporaneo al presente che esso “€ stato.” Ecco perché, secondo 
Deleuze, in Proust le reminiscenze si integrano nella scrittura come parti 
costitutive in quanto esse sono elementi conduttori, capaci di guidare il 
lettore alla comprensione dell’opera letteraria e di portare l’artista a con- 
cepire il proprio compito e l’unita di tale compito. L’essenza artistica rivela 
un tempo che oltrepassa ogni dimensione; é identico all’immagine dell’eter- 
nita. La rivelazione finale dell’arte nella scrittura consiste nel farci com- 
prendere che era presente nel ricordo involontario o nel segno sensibile 
dell’autore. Deleuze conclude infatti la sua dissertazione affermando che in 
ogni realizzazione “scopriamo cosi che la memoria involontaria e le ragioni 
di questa funzione é funzione importante, ma secondarta nell’incarnazione 
delle essenze” (62). 

A partire da Proust, la memoria si afferma quale forza motrice dell’o- 
pera letteraria giungendo ad alti livelli di elaborazione. Il processo di scrit- 
tura segue due direzioni: una rivela, mediante la memoria involontaria, la 
trasformazione degli stati d’animo dei personaggi, l’altra resta fedele, con 
uno svolgimento logico e coerente all’evocazione o alla reminiscenza affi- 
dandos: alla memoria volontaria. Nell’atto del ricordare la percezione si 
dilata e l’io soggettivo, preso dal mondo della memoria, muta in una realta 
inedita, inesplorata. Il “soggetto 10” e il “soggetto mondo-memonria”’ ri- 
creano un’antinomia da decifrare nei parametri della lettura. 





LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 179 


Il memoriale odeporico. 

Il rapporto fra viaggio e memoria si iscrive legittimamente nella letteratura 
come configurazione di un peculiare genere, il memoriak odeporico in cut 1 
natratore assume come tema centrale il proprio viaggio. La registrazione 
memoriale garantisce la trasmittibilita delle esperienze, non spogliandosi di 
quelle relative al viaggio, al contrario, caricando di inedite valenze formal: la 
sostanziale letterarieta della scrittura. 

Il viaggio come “tema letterario” o letteratura odeporica, cosi come le 
memorie di viaggio costituiscono delle varianti interne del fatto letterario, 
ovvero, “la scrittura del viaggio come esperienza, poiché il viaggio di per sé 
sembra completarsi nello scrivere’’#3 Fra viaggio e memoria esiste un ori- 
ginario nesso di coordinazione e reciprocita; il viaggiatore infatti, per defi- 
nizione, é colui che stabilisce, spostandosi, una distanza spaziale fra la sua 
dimora abituale e 1 luoghi visitati, e il memorialista conserva una distanza 
temporale fra il tempo del suo vissuto e il momento della scrittura. Nella 
narrazione odeporica il passato é il tempo dell’erranza, dell’avventura, degli 
espedienti, della conoscenza del mondo estraneo, del sapere finalmente 
conquistato e della nostalgia.4 

Il memoriale odeporico si fonda primariamente sul tema dell’avventura, 
condiviso anticamente dall’epica e poi dal romanzo come nascita di una 
nuova dimensione individuale della vita. Nel memoriale odeporico I’av- 
ventura*> é l’elemento-chiave e vi assume uno spazio assai maggiore che nel 
romanzo, acquistando anche un diverso significato: non si tratta di un ‘caso’ 
o di un accidente che fa parte di un destino collettivo, ma di una prova del 
tutto individuale che conferma la singolarita dell’esperienza. Si passa da una 
dimensione corale a una soggettiva, in cui il senso della vita emerge da una 
ricerca personale che esalta la qualita del personaggio-autore, solitario e 1so- 
lato, e rivela un senso universale. L’odeporica e la memorialistica, distinte in 
astratto, storicamente tendono a confondersi: l’una é, per cosi dire, specu- 
lare dell’altra. Il memortale odeporico é un ventaglio di intese, dall’interio- 
rizzazione della sacralita del luogo alla forma della nitualita iniziatica,** dal 
sapere geografico alle circostanziali pulsion: dell’immaginario. Nella “dislo- 
cazione” del viaggio il procedimento dei meccanismi della memoria, inteso 


43. P. Colaiacono, “Tl punto di vista di Flush,” in AA. VV., Viaggio e scrittura. Le stramiere 
nell’ Italia dell’Ottocento (Moncalien, CIRVI, 1988), 167. 


44. La nostalgia “interpreta il rapporto differenziale dei tempi a favore del passato” 
(Starobinski 226). 


45. Il termine “avventura”, dal participio futuro del verbo latino advenio, significa 
letteralmente “le cose che stanno per accadere”, e allude all’imprevedibilita del futuro. 


46. Nella partecipazione ai pellegrinaggi si puo individuare un’area di mobilita attraverso un 
percorso regolato di andata e nitorno. La componente personale del viaggio di Egena, 
intrapreso fra il 381 e il 383 in Egitto, in Palestina e a Gerusalemme, é il ricordo della fatica 
di risalire Perta del Sinai e quello della visita alla tomba di Giobbe che offrono le giuste coor- 
dinate per comprendere l’itinerario di un’esperienza di fede. Si veda Egeria, Diario d viaggio, tx. 
di E. Clementelli (Milano, Edizioni Paoline, 1999). 


180 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


nel senso piu generale di ragguaglio narrativo, enuclea l’allontanamento dal- 
le consuetudini, dall’abituale e stabilisce un distacco dal noto e tudinario. 
L’esperienza percettiva, in un confronto con stimoli ignoti, include un senso 
di estraneita, una sensazione di “straniamento”’ nell’incontro con l’altro e i 
diverso. 

Il racconto, nella prospettiva della scoperta, prefigura un fatto storico. 
Ma questo fatto storico, vero in sé, prefigura un altro fatto storico ancora 
piu importante e cioé la conoscenza di culture diverse; ebbene in questo ca- 
so il primo avvenimento é figura del secondo, nel senso che lo annuncia. 
Tale funzione figurale si basa sul presupposto di pari storicita tanto del s1- 
gnificante (il viaggio) quanto del significato (un nuovo mondo). Tale fun- 
zone rende piu trasparente il rapporto tra condizione interiore del soggetto 
e la sua obiettiva condizione nel sistema universale di valori: ciO avviene con 
un rovesciamento dell’interiorita del soggetto sullo scenario in cui esso vie- 
ne a collocarsi. L’interazione fra l’esperienza del viaggio e il ricordo si costi- 
tuisce dunque non come mera collaborazione strumentale, ma come osmosi 
organica, come complementarieta € reciproca dipendenza. Il memorialista- 
protagonista, nella misura in cui si pone il compito di trasmettere 11 suo 
percorso, si trova immerso nel campo metaforico del viaggio. 

Il memortale odeporico € per antonomasia la metafora del viaggio nei 
labirintici strumenti di navigazione della memoria, e costituisce il punto di 
osservazione ideale per misurare le differenze e le consonanze tra il passato 
e il richiamo di immagini emblematiche nella memoria. La mobilita spazio- 
temporale di cui il viaggio € esperienza paradigmatica coincide con quella 
della rimembranza trasferita nell’espressione letteraria. Sul fopos del 
raccontare, saccheggiando l’esperienza del viaggio, si costituisce la comice 
di un metaracconto, un racconto interamente allustvo, una parabola pre- 
cisata e racchiusa nella memoria. II narratore-memorialista si propone, in 
tutte le sue implicazioni fattuali, nella fondamentale ambtvalenza della ricer- 
ca e della scoperta, nella struttura della comunicazione letterarta. II racconto 
deve coprire un arco di tempo perché appaia il tracciato del viaggio, ght av- 
venimenti in esso contenuti nonché le sensazioni e la descrizione del viaggio 
stesso. La descrizione é uno degli elementi costitutivi del memoriale odepo- 
rico e diviene il principio connesso al comune senso del rischio o continuo 
cadere nella finzione. Tuttavia, nonostante il desiderio di sincerita, il conte- 
nuto della narrazione pud venir meno e perdersi nella finzione, senza che 
nulla possa arrestare questo passaggio da un piano all’altro e senza neppure 
che alcun indizio lo riveli. 

Il paradigma del nesso memoriale-narrazione, nel corso dei secoli, ha 
subito evoluzioni che hanno dato origine a diverse connotazion1:47 dalle im- 
ptese cavalleresche e dall’erranza picaresca e penitenziale dell’epoca medie- 


47. “T libri di viaggio furono un riflesso del costume e della cultura del [Settecento], anche se 
obbedirono sovente a certe convenienze letterarie’ (E. Bonora, a cura di, Letterat, 
Memorialish e wagezatori del Settecento, Milano-Napoli, Ricciardi, 1973). 





LA PARABOLA TESTIMONIALE E I CONFINI DELLA MEMORIA 181 


vale, i resoconti dei viaggiatori hanno segnato successivamente, nell’epoca 
rinascimentale e in quella moderna la necessita e il desiderio dell’uomo di 
autoaffermarsi e di manifestare la propria liberta** e la propria sete di espe- 
rienze e di conoscenze: la scrittura ripropone il viaggio volto alla scoperta e 
all’ acquisizione di verita scientifiche.4? Un’analoga riconversione verso il 
soggetto € rappresentata a fine Settecento dalla tradizione memorialistica 
odeporica del Grand Tour, in cui la letteratura sembra decisamente eman- 
ciparsi dalla referenza “esperienziale” del viaggio: al viaggiatore-navigatore, 
proteso all’esplorazione di nuovi mondi si sostituisce il viaggiatore “sen- 
timentale,” in grado di scardinare l’immobilita dei luoghi comuni e la rigidita 
degli schemi conoscitivi e narrativi. Il sapere illusorio cerca il suo significato 
non nella referenza delle cose narrate, nel gheriglio dei contenuti, ma nella 
forma che svela e rende trasparenti e incandescenti le foschie della co- 
scienza. La funzione acquisitiva e informativa di cui é portavoce il pro- 
tagonista e la funzione memorativa del deja vu nella scrittura memorialistica 
sono fra loro strettamente connesse e in perfetta simbiosi. La reminiscenza, 
sensazione momentanea, riaffiora, rendendo contigua l’esperienza vissuta.*° 

Non trascurabili sono 1 memoriali legati alla componente delle guerre, 
delle persecuzioni e dell’esilio o autoesilio. Le costrizioni spostano il deter- 
rente semantico verso connotazioni come |’abbandono, l’umile e sublime 
nostalgia degli affetti, la lotta, la sofferenza, l’ingrustizia, il nfugio e l’acco- 
glienza. L’esilio € il tempo della coscienza dilatata, della separazione, dell’as- 
sunzione della memoria e della ricerca dell’integrazione nell’ordine soctale. 
A livello delle funzioni prevalgono le similitudini e le analogie. E l’agente di 
una metamorfosi della relazione sociale e della relazione affettiva. Il dislo- 
camento fra l’amor loc, \deale contrapposto al /ocus itinerante offre motiva- 
zioni piu profonde all’impresa di raccontare inusitate esperienze personal. 
Nell’interrelazione fra viaggiatore e memorialista si riflette ’'umana indivi- 
duazione della propria visibilita e la coscienza inquieta di un’epoca. 


Universita degh Studi di Pisa 


48. I Mémoires di Anne Marie d’Orleans, “La Grande Mademoiselle,” prima figlia di Luigi 
XIII, costituiscono una fonte storica di enorme interesse. I continui spostamenti di questa 
principessa rispondevano al suo incessante desiderio di indipendenza e di acquisire un ruolo 
storico e sociale. Grazie a queste memorie “e allo sforzo di riflessione che hanno comportato 
si puo assistere alla nascita di un individualismo femminile modemo che all’interno della 
propria coscienza e con la memoria persegue un ideale di autonomia e di liberta femminile” 
(G. Conti Odorisio, “ Il viaggio nei Mémoires della Grande Mademoiselle”, in M. L. Silvestre e 
A. Valerio, a cura di, Donne in viaggio. Bari, Laterza, 1999: 117). 


49. Si ricordino alcuni viaggi di scienziati, tra i quali A. von Humboldt, La Condamine, 
Spallanzani e Celestino Mutis. 


50. Cfr. E. De Amicis, Spagna. Diario di viaggio di un turista scrittore (Padova, Muzzio, 1993) e 
B. Croce, Nella Penisola Iberica (Napoli, 1961). 


182 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 
Opere citate 


Battstini, A. Lo specchio di Dedalo. Autolnografia e lnografia. Bologna, Il Mulino, 1990. 

Blanchot, M. L Znfinito intrattenimento. Senta sull’“insensato gioco d scrivere,” tr. di R. Fer- 
rara. Torino, Einaudi, 1970. 

Chateaubriand, F.-R. Mémoires d’outre-tombe, intr. et notes par J.-P. Clément. Paris, 
Gallimard, 1997. 

Deleuze, G. Marcel Proust e 7 segni, tr. di C. Lusignoli-D. De Agostini. Torino, Einau- 
di, 1986. 

Fasano, P. Letteratura e viaggio. Bani, Laterza, 1999. 

Lejeune, Ph. I/ patio autobiografico, tr. di F. Santini. Bologna, I] Mulino, 1986. 

Nicolet, G. La memoria illuminata. Autoliografia e letteratura fra Rivoluzione e 
Risorgimento. Firenze, Vallecchi, 1989. 

Pizzorusso, A. Ad margini dell’autoliografia: sind francest. Bologna, Il Mulino, 1986 

Starobinski, J. Locchio vivente, tr. di G. Guglielmi. Torino, Einaudi, 1975. 

Wuthenow, R. R. Européische Tagebiicher. Eigenart.Formen, Entnicklung. Darmstadt, 
Wissenschftliche Buchgesellschaft, 1990. 

Yates, F. A. L’arte della memoria. Torino, Einaudi, 1966. 

Zambrano, M. La confesstone come genere letterario, tr. di E. Nobili. Milano, Mondadon, 
1999, 








MICHEL BRIX 





Voyages romantiques 


ans le vaste ensemble des récits de voyages, peut-on tracer une frontiére 

séparant les descriptions littéraires et les descriptions non littéraires 

de lailleurs? Ce délicat probléme, qui nous renvoie tout droit a la 

question «qu’est-ce que la littérature?», n’est sans doute pas prés d’étre 
résolu, tant le récit de voyage semble prendre soin d’échapper 4 toutes les 
tentatives de classification: la critique a mis tour a tour en évidence ses affinités 
— mais non point son identité— avec l’autobiographie, les mémoires, le journal 
intime, la correspondance, l’essai de philosophie et de morale, louvrage 
d’ethnographie ou encore le relevé géographique, sans parvenir pour autant 
a définir clairement et précisément ce qu’il est. 

La critique a pris aussi l’habitude d’isoler le voyage romantique de ce qui 
le précéde et d’en faire le point de départ d’une sorte d’ére «moderne», 
esthétiquement parlant, de la relation de voyage: on considére souvent, en effet, 
les récits antérieurs au XIX‘ siécle comme de simples documents, des «instanta- 
nés» d’itinéraires, des comptes rendus d’exploration, qui enregistreraient telle 
quelle l’expérience d’un voyage. Ces hypothéses contestables, qui procédaient 
partiellement d’un désintérét coupable pour les voyages de la Renaissance et 
de l’age classique, ont été mises en cause dans des études récentes' et n’ont plus 
guére de défenseurs aujourd’hui. Il est significatif, néanmoins, que les 
spécialistes aient si longtemps estimé que le récit de voyage n’avait accédé au 
rang de genre littéraire que par la grace des écrivains du XTX* siécle. Et pour 
cause: avec les voyageurs romantiques, on est — toujours — beaucoup plus du 
cété de la littérature que de l’ethnographie, et beaucoup plus du cote de la fiction 
que du reportage. 

Au XIX siécle, nul ne faisait mystére, au reste, des enjeux littéraires du 
récit de voyage. Ainsi, de nombreux auteurs insérent dans leurs relations des 
contes, des nouvelles, des histoires bréves, dramatiques ou galantes, des 
anecdotes romancées, voire des piéces de théatre (ainsi «Léo Burckart», dans 
Lorely. Souvenirs d’Allemagne de Nerval), — attestant ainsi que le compte rendu 
de «choses vues» ne constitue pas, a tout le moins, leur principal objectif’. De 
surcroit, beaucoup de voyageurs romantiques doublent, si ’on ose dire, le récit 


1. Voir notamment l’ouvrage de Friedrich Wolfzettel, Le Discours du voyageur. Pour une histotre 
littéraire du récit de voyage en France, du Moyen Age au XVIII siécle. (Paris, P.U.F., 1996) et les 
travaux de Frank Lestringant. 


2. Sur cette question, on peut notamment se reporter 4 l’article de J. Chupeau, «Les Récits de 
voyage aux lisiéres du roman», Revue d'Histoire Littéraire de la France, n° 3/4 (1977), p. 536-553. 


184 MICHEL BRIX 


de leurs pérégrinations en composant des ceuvres de fiction auxquelles les 
premiéres servent en quelque sorte de repérage — on n’oubliera pas que la 
couleur locale figure au premier rang des revendications de la nouvelle école 
— ou méme d’annonce, au sens publicitaire du terme. Ainsi Chateaubriand 
accomplit le voyage qui deviendra l’Itinéraire de Paris a Jérusalem pour — affirme-t- 
il— prendre les paysages de ses futurs Martyrs’. Théophile Gautier utilise dans 
Mihtona (1847) un grand nombre de descriptions empruntées 4 son Voyage en 
Espagne. Enfin, les Notes d’un voyage dans l'ouest de la France (1836) de Vinspecteur 
général des monuments historiques Mérimée évoquent I’Isis de Quinipilly (ou 
Quenpilly, en Bretagne), — statue dont le mystére inspirera l’année suivante, 
au romancier Mérimée, La Vénus dle (1837). 

Ces enchevétrements entre la réalité et la fiction’, ot la critique bien souvent 
se perd, apparaissent aussi dans le récit des aventures ou le narrateur/voyageur 
se met en scéne. Rien ne nous dit que ces aventures renvoient bien 4 une 
expérience vécue, et les structuralistes ont eu mille fois raison, de ce point de 
vue, de nous enseigner a distinguer l’auteur et le narrateur. Ainsi, ona pu par 
exemple établir que Nerval n’avait jamais mis le pied sur l’ile grecque de Cythére, 
alors que plusieurs chapitres du Voyage en Orient font état, a la premiére personne, 
du séjour du narrateur en cet endroit’. 

Au XIX* siécle, les « priorités » littéraires des auteurs de récits de voyage 
correspondent aussi a un déclin — trés provisoire — de l’exploration proprement 
dite. Les romantiques ne se sont guére rendus que dans des contrées que l’on 
connaissait déja : Europe, bien str, du Nord au Midi et de l’Est 4 Ouest, le 
Maghreb — ou se sont rendus Chateaubriand, Gautier, Flaubert et Fromentin, 
— le Proche-Orient (Egypte, Liban, Palestine, Turquie) et — dans le cas de 
Chateaubriand au moins — l’Amérique du Nord. Seul Victor Jacquemont a 
voyagé dans I’Inde. Les écrivains de la premiére moitié du XTX‘ siécle n’ont 
guére montré une ame de pionnier et préféraient apparemment se trouver en 
terrain connu. L’Amérique du Sud, l’Afrique noire et la Chine ne les verront 
pas et attendront presque jusqu’au XX° siécle le privilége de servir de décor 
aux récits de voyage occidentaux. 

D’ou cette conséquence, qui accentue le caractére littéraire des pérégrina- 
tions de nos romantiques : ceux-ci voyagent toujours aprés d’autres, et arrivent 
dans des endroits qui en général ont déja fait objet d’une description. Ainsi 


3. «J’avais arrété le plan des Martyrs : la plupart des livres de cet ouvrage étaient ébauchés; je 
ne crus pas devoir y mettre la derniére main avant d’avoir vu les pays o ma scéne était placée» 
(CEuvres romanesques et voyages, 11, 769). 


4. Ainsi quand Chateaubriand deéclare a la fin de l’'Itinéraire que ce livre n’est que «la suite ou 
le commentaire [des Martyrs|» (1214). 


5. Voir les notes du tome IT des CEwores completes de Nerval (notamment p. 1452). De méme, 
un peu plus loin dans la méme ceuvre, le voyageur se serait longuement promené sur Vile de 
Syra; or on sait que Nerval, s’il a bien abordé a Syra, n’a fait qu’y passer d’un bateau a un autre 


(1458). 





VOYAGES ROMANTIQUES 185 


Flaubert débarque en Orient aprés Nerval, qui vient lui-méme aprés Lamartine, 
lequel a suivi Chateaubriand et Volney, etc. Autant que dans le réel, le touriste 
romantique voyage dans la bibliothéque constituée par les récits de ceux qui 
Pont précédé. Nous aurons a revenir sur ce trait essentiel du récit de voyage 
au XIX* siécle. 

Enfin, le voyage romantique tire aussi ses accents proprement littéraires 
de la symbolique profonde de la peregrinatio, dans Vhistoire de ?Occident. Les 
écrivains du XIX‘ siécle n’ont pas innové sur ce plan-ci non plus. Toute vie 
est assimilée 4 un voyage dans la mesure ou, chassé du Paradis terrestre, 
homme voudrait, sinon trouver le chemin qui permet d’y retourner, en tout 
cas voir s’ouvrir devant lui les portes de la redemption. La tradition juive, puis 
la doctrine chrétienne — notamment par la voix de saint Jean, saint Paul et 
surtout de saint Augustin, — ont exploité ce motif®: la vie est une longue errance 
loin du Seigneur; en nous laissant guider par la foi, sur le «chemin» du Christ 
(«Je suis le chemin et la vérité et la vie», Jean, XIV, 6), nous rejoindrons notre 
patrie céleste. D’ou il s’ensuit que les voyages se trouvent comme naturellement 
orientés vers un but sacré, ou un lieu idéalisé. Les modéles, ou les archétypes, 
dans une telle perspective, ce sont les croisades vers Jérusalem, ou les pélerinages 
a Rome et a Saint-Jacques-de-Compostelle. 

Ainsi, quils soient accomplis par des religieux ou par des laics, les voyages 
ont, 4 toute époque, eu partie liée avec une quéte mystique. A la fin du XV 
siécle, le plus illustre voyageur de histoire de Phumanité, Christophe Colomb, 
s’était mis en téte de découvrir le Paradis terrestre et avait cru meme un temps 
y étre parvenu — son journal de bord l’atteste — lorsqu’il avait appareillé aux 
Caraibes. Bougainville et ses compagnons seront la proie d’une illusion 
identique en abordant a Tahiti, la «Nouvelle-Cythére». Pas un voyageur qui 
n’aspire 4 prendre pied dans l’infini, dans le Ciel des réves, dans un paradis ou 
auraient disparu les contraintes et les petitesses de la vie de tous les jours. 
L’appel de l’étranger se confond avec l’espoir qu’il existe des pays ot: l’idéal 
se manifeste en quelque sorte de fagon tangible. Lorsque Gautier s’en va faire 
Un tour en Belgique (1836), c’est pour retrouver, dans le réel, le monde de l'art, 
qui ressortit a imaginaire en France mais pourrait bien avoir élu domicile dans 
la ville de Rubens. C’est en tout cas ce que le touriste espére au moment de 
partir : 


[...], comme un autre Jason, j’étais parti pour aller conquénit la toison d’or, 
ou, pour parler en style plus humble, chercher la femme blonde et le type 
de Rubens [...], quelque Rubens sans cadre, sous forme d’une honnéte 
Flamande’. 


6. Voir les passages cités dans le numéro spécial de la Revue des Saences humaines sur «L” Homo 
viatom, n° 245, janvier-mars 1997, p. 7-8, 77-79 et 131-132. 


7. Caprices et Zigzags (Paris, Hachette, 1865), p. 40: premiére publication a ’automne de 1836 
dans La Chronique de Pans. 


186 MICHEL BRIX 


De méme, le voyageur nervalien fait montre d’intentions analogues : 
découvrir un univers préservé, magique, qui se confonde avec le seuil du Ciel, 
ou en tout cas 4 l’intérieur duquel régne un idéal émancipé des contingences 
du quotidien. Si lon s’en tient aux seuls chapitres préliminaires du Voyage en 
Orient — ceux qui s’intitulent « Vers Orient » — les passages qui font état de 
ce désir sont nombreux. Dés le début du séjour a Vienne, le héros se compare 
au capitaine Cook, «qui écrit avoir vu un tel jour un goéland ou un pingouin, 
tel autre jour n’avoir vu qu’un tronc d’arbre flottant; ici la mer était claire, la 
bourbeuse. Mais, a travers ces signes vains, ces flots changeants, il révait des 
iles inconnues et parfumées, et finissait par aborder un soir dans ces retraites 
du pur amour et de l’éternelle beauté» (p. 201). Dans la capitale autrichienne, 
encore, le voyageur mande triomphalement a son correspondant qu'il a rencontré 
«une beauteé de celles que nous avons tant de fois révées, — la femme idéale 
des tableaux de l’école italienne, la Vénitienne de Gozzi, bionda e grassotta, |...]'» 
(p. 203). 

Rien d’étonnant, donc, a ce qu’au XIX° siécle, ’Orient constituat la 
destination favorite des Européens, et en particulier des Francais. Dans sa 
dédicace du Ni/, Maxime Du Camp compare d’ailleurs cet exode massif des 
écrivains vers l’Est a une croisade: 


Victor Hugo a été le prédicateur de l’Onent; il a été, par les Orientaks, le Pierre 
PHermite de cette croisade artistique que nous avons tous entreprise et menée 
4 bonnes fins’. 


L’Orient est le berceau de la spiritualité européenne, au sens large: la Terre 
sainte prend place dans un grand territoire qui semble avoir de tous temps été 
distingué par les dieux pour se manifester aux hommes et qui compte aussi le 
Liban, la Gréce et Egypte, — ce dernier pays ayant non seulement abrité les 
sources de l’hermétisme mais pouvant passer de surcroit pour le foyer de 
certaines intuitions platoniciennes, lesquelles ne furent pas sans influencer la 
lettre méme de la doctrine chrétienne. Et 4 ’horizon de ces contrées, toujours 
plus al’Est, rayonne le monde de I’Inde d’ot — sil’on en croyait les romantiques 
allemands — serait issue la croyance primitive dont procéderaient toutes les 
religions du monde. 

Ainsi, a inverse des pays du Nord, ou des pays d’Amérique — auxquels 
ne sont pas liés de tels souvenits,— l’Orient apparaissait au XTX‘ siécle comme 
la terre spirituelle par excellence. Méme lorsqu’elles n’émanaiert pas de 
voyageurs, les ceuvres publiées a cette époque ne manquaient pas d’exploiter 
ce rapprochement. En 1817, le recueil La//a Rookh de Thomas Moore assimile 


8. Extrait de la dédicace 4 Théophile Gautier du Ni/ de Maxime Du Camp [Le Ni/ (Egypte et 
Nubie), Paris, Librairie nouvelle, 1854, p. 6]. 





VOYAGES ROMANTIQUES 187 


Orient 4 une sorte de paradis sur terre, ou les femmes sont des anges — ou 
plus exactement des péris, — ot la frontiére entre le monde d’en bas et le monde 
d’en haut se révéle des plus minces et ot les dieux interviennent quotidienne- 
ment dans la vie des hommes. Ce paradis sur terre n’est pas nécessairement 
doté de caractéres uniquement spirituels. Certaines traditions — a raccorder 
celles-la aux Letires persanes de Montesquieu et au roman libertin du XVIII siécle, 
— ont en effet identifié l’Orient a une sorte d’absolu révé de la sensualité et du 
donjuanisme. Dans un décor d’un luxe précisément qualifié d’«oriental», le 
sultan turc passait pour un despote tout-puissant environné d’esclaves et ayant 
a sa disposition un harem d’épouses qui le vénérent et guettent le moindre de 
ses désirs pour le satisfaire. C’est une pareille image du monde onental, assimilé 
aun univers ou régne la volupté absolue, qui prévaut par exemple dans La Peau 
de chagrin. 

Ces terres réputées idéales avaient tout pour attirer les ames insatisfaites 
de leur présent. Maxime Du Camp a vu en Victor Hugo, nous l’avons noté, 
l’initiateur de ces pélerinages vers Orient, mais Hugo lui-méme ne faisait que 
reprendre en 1829 un refrain déja bien connu Outre-Rhin: Friedrich Schlegel 
avait exhorté en 1800 ses contemporains a chercher en Orient le romantisme 
supreme (im Orient miissen wir das hochste Romantische suchen). Et une vingtaine 
d’années aprés cet appel, Goethe, pour une fois d’accord avec un Schlegel, faisait 
résonner en ouverture de son Divan occidental-oriental (1819) les accents suivants 


Nord, Ouest et Sud volent en éclats, 

Les trones se brisent, les empires tremblent, 
Sauve-toi, va dans le pur Orient 

Respirer l’air des patriarches! 

Parmi les amours, le boire et les chants 

La source de Chiser te rajeunira 


La, dans la purete et la justice, 

Je veux des races humaines 

Pénétrer Porigine derniére, 

Jusqu’en ces temps ou elles recevaient encore de Dieu 
La doctrine céleste en des parlers terrestres, 

Sans plus se creuser la cervelle’. 


Beaucoup de romantiques répondront a ces appels et embarqueront pour 
YOrient a la recherche d’un monde qui soit pour eux une porte ouverte vers 
le Ciel. Baudelaire tonnera plus tard contre pareille conception du voyage, dans 
Pédition de 1861 des Furs du Mal, ot le poéme intitulé précisément «Le Voyage» 
traite Christophe Colomb d’ivrogne” et affirme que — au lieu de découvrir les 


9. Divan occidental-oriental [West-Ostlicher Divan], trad. H. Lichtenberger (Paris, Aubier/ 
Montaigne, 1950), p. 54. 


10. «Faut-il le mettre aux fers, le jeter 4 la mer, / Ce matelot ivrogne, inventeur d’Amériques» 


(p. 130). 


188 MICHEL BRIX 


paradis idéaux que l’on réve — on ne retrouve loin de chez soi que le spectacle 
de l’«immortel péché» (p. 132). Baudelaire ne supportait point que ’homme 
tentat de s’émanciper artificiellement de sa condition terrestre et, partant, juge 
que le désir de voyager (assimilé par lui a une «Circé tyrannique aux dangereux 
parfums», p. 129) ne s’avére pas moins détestable que la consommation de 
drogue et d’alcool ou que les cultes humanitaires, qui prétendent purger la terre 
de la présence du Mal. 

Mais en 1861, et si l’on nous pardonne cette image, le poéte des Fleurs du 
Ma! préchait encore dans le désert. Les romantiques s’étaient rangés sous la 
banniére de Hugo, qui, bien loin de présenter Christophe Colomb comme un 
ivrogne, avait au contraire vu en lui un modele illustre pour tous les voyageurs, 
voire un prophéte pour ’humanité entiére''. Ainsi, le concert d’exhortations 
a aller «vers ?Orient» ne parait guére admettre, avant Baudelaire, de voix 
ouvertement discordante. 

Comme on I’a observé, les voyageurs romantiques « connaissent » déja — 
les guillemets sont nécessaires, — avant de les avoir visités, les pays quils ont 
choisi de parcourir. Tout voyageur, au XIX* siécle, est en effet d’abord un 
lecteur qui s’est nourri non seulement des récits laissés par ses prédécesseurs, 
mais aussi des grands textes liés 4 Vhistoire des contrées plus ou moins 
lointaines. C’est l'ensemble de ce corpus littéraire, par exemple, qui a transmis 
siécle apres siécle, en Europe de Ouest, l'image d’un Orient idéal, qui ouvre 
toutes grandes devant les pélerins les portes du salut. 

Quant aux apotres modernes qui préchent ces quétes mystiques, ils ne 
possédent eux-mémes, la plupart du temps, qu’une connaissance toute théorique 
des régions ou ils appellent leurs contemporains 4 se rendre. Ainsi, il est évident 
que Goethe, Friedrich Schlegel ou Hugo ont célébré un Orient abstrait, celui 
des livres, auquel Hugo ne craignait pas, d’ailleurs, d’adjoindre Espagne. Et 
louvrage que le méme Friedrich Schlegel publie en 1808 sur la langue et la 
philosophie des Indiens’’ ne se fondait aucunement non plus sur une quel- 
conque expérience de |’Inde, mais sur les séjours de l’auteur dans les bibliothe- 
ques parisiennes. 

Tels maitres, tels disciples. Lorsqu’ils débarquent au Liban ou en Egypte, 
les voyageurs demandent a la réalité de se conformer a ce quils ont lu et 4 
Pimage figée de Orient des livres, qu’ils ont emportée avec eux. L’[tinéraire 
de Chateaubriand, qui imite explicitement le modéle du pélerinage’’, est 
exemplaire d’une telle attitude. Ce qui importe pour l’auteur, en Judée par 


11. Voir «A M. de Lamartine», la piéce IX des Femilles d’automne (1831). C’est Sarga Moussa, 
dans le numéro cité de la Revue des Saences humaines (p. 152), quia mis en paralléle ce poéme de 
Hugo et «Le Voyage» de Baudelaire. 


12. Uber die Sprache und Weisheit der Indien [Essai sur la langue et la philosophie des Indiens). 


13. «[...] Je serai peut-étre le dernier Frangais sorti de mon pays pour voyager en Terre Sainte, 
avec les idées, le but et le sentiment d’un ancien pélerin» (CEavres romanesques et voyages, p. 769- 
770). 





VOYAGES ROMANTIQUES 189 


exemple, c’est de retrouver les tableaux de l’Ecriture et les endroits o& Dieu 
a parle: 


Quand on voyage dans la Judée, d’abord un grand ennui saisit le coeur; mais 
lorsque, passant de solitude en solitude, l’espace s’étend sans bornes devant 
vous, peu a peu lennui se dissipe, on éprouve une terreur secréte, qui, loin 
d’abaisser l’ame, donne du courage, et éléve le génie. Des aspects extraordi- 
naires décélent de toutes parts une terre travaillée par des miracles: le soleil 
brulant, l’aigle impétueux, le figuier sterile, toute la poésie, tous les tableaux 
de l’Ecriture sont 14. Chaque nom renferme un mystére: chaque grotte déclare 
Pavenir; chaque sommet retentit des accents d’un prophete. Dieu méme a 
parlé sur ces bords: les torrents desséchés, les rochers fendus, les tombeaux 
entrouverts attestent le prodige; le désert parait encore muet de terreur, et 
Pon dirait qu’il n’a osé rompre le silence depuis qu'il a entendu la voix de 


lEternel. (p. 999) 


I] n’est pas inutile de remarquer que cette maniére de concevoir l’Orient 
induit sur celui-ci, de la part des Occidentaux, un sentiment de propriété et ne 
se révéle pas sans lien avec la politique. Aux yeux de Chateaubriand, seul 
compte une sorte d’Orient intemporel, dont la réalité moderne est niée, et qui 
n’existerait qu’en fonction des pélerinages et des croisades, c’est-a-dire pour 
permettre aux chrétiens du reste du monde de se retremper aux sources de leurs 
croyances et de raffermir leur foi. C’est ainsi que l’auteur de I’ Inéraire manifeste 
non seulement du mépris mais méme de la colére contre l’Islam et plus 
généralement contre tout ce qui empéche |’Orient au XIX* siécle de remplir 
sa fonction rédemptrice. Selon Chateaubriand, les Francais sont chez eux en 
Orient et doivent y étre traités comme des maitres: 


Ce qu’il y a de beau en Egypte [aux yeux de Chateaubriand], mis 4 part les 
pyramides, vestiges d’une civilisation disparue, ce sont les réalisations des 
Francais, du temps de la campagne de Napoléon. C’est pourquoi Chateau- 
briand tient a rappeler toujours qu'il est frangais, et veut vivre, autant que 
possible, comme en France. Un épisode du voyage en Turquie est particulié- 
rement révélateur. A la suite d’une querelle, Chateaubriand doit se rendre 
chez le commandant local; on lui demande de se déchausser et de se désarmer. 
«Je leur fis dire par le drogman qu’un Francais suivait partout les usages de 
son pays». Un soldat essaie de l’arraisonner; le voyageur lui donne un coup 
de fouet, et s'assoit a coté du commandant. «Je lui parlais frangais.» Dans son 
discours, il fait ’éloge des Frangais, en ajoutant que «a gloire de [leurs] armes 
était assez répandue dans l’Orient pour qu’on apprit a respecter [leurs] 
chapeaux»”*. 


14. Tzvetan Todorov, Nous et les autres. La réflexion francaise sur la diversité humaine (Paris, Seuil, 
1989), p. 401. 


190 MICHEL BRIX 


Les Orientaux ont a s’incliner devant les Anglais aussi, qui ont d’ailleurs 
ramené chez eux sans vergogne la frise du Parthénon: les ceuvres d’art de 
l’« antique Hellade » n’appartiennent-elles pas de droit 4 ceux qui se sont nourris 
de la culture grecque plutot qu’a ses descendants dégénérés? Chateaubriand 
déplorera seulement que les Anglais aient été plus rapides que les Francais. 

Les voyages des Européens en Onient ignorent donc dans toute la mesure 
du possible la réalité des pays visités. Ce n’est pas a elle que lon s’intéresse, 
mais a une sorte d’abstraction onentale, un monde « de ruines suggestives, de 
secrets oubliés, de correspondances cachées” », un Orient fait de références 
et de citations, un /opos littéraire en harmonie avec les préoccupations des 
Occidentaux, leurs a priori, hérités des livres, et leurs mythes personnels. Au 
XIX* siécle, les voyages ressortissent moins de l’exploration que de la lecture, 
comme si l’Orient n’était rien d’autre qu’une sorte de grand livre initiatique, 
qu il convenait d’ouvir a la page qui explique a Occidental comment étre sauvé. 
Quant aux récits publiés par les voyageurs romantiques, ils paraissent s’engen- 
drer les uns les autres, comme en un circuit fermé, prenant le moins possible 
en compte la réalité orientale, qu’ils sont pourtant censés décrire. Lamartine 
a affirmé dans sa propre relation que tout voyage s’apparentait a une traduction. 
On ne sait si pareille affirmation est de nature a honorer les traducteurs. Il y 
aurait méme lieu de se demander, avec Edward Said, si l’auteur du « Lac » ne 
surestime pas son role, et celui des voyageurs de son temps, et si ce ne sont 
pas les manes de Bouvard et Pécuchet qu’il conviendrait d’évoquer ici. Les 
voyageurs romantiques semblent bien souvent se contenter de recopier. Ains1, 
si ’on peut comprendre que Nerval s’inspire de relations de voyage existantes 
pour décrire des iles qu’il n’a pas visitées"®, il est plus curieux, en revanche — 
mais 6 combien significatif — de le voir reproduire des pages entiéres de 
descriptions de la vie aquodieene des Egyptiens qu’il a trouvées dans un 
ouvrage de William Lane’. L’auteur du Voyage en Orient a pourtant séjourné 
plusieurs mois au Caire... 

En voyage, intention essentielle des romantiques ne consiste pas a chercher 
a l’étranger du nouveau, mais paradoxalement a retrouver — que ce soit a mille 
ou a dix mille kilometres de Paris — du connu, du déja-lu. De la capitale 
égyptienne, Flaubert écrit en 1850 a sa mére: 


Tu me demandes si l’orient est 4 la hauteur de ce que jimaginais. A la 
hauteur, oui, et de plus il dépasse en largeur la supposition que j’en faisais. 
Jai trouvé dessiné nettement ce qui pour moi était brumeux. Le fait a fait 


15. Edward Said, L’Onentalisme. L’Onent créé par l’'Occident, preface de T. Todorov, trad. de 
Catherine Malamoud (Paris, Seuil, 1980), p. 196. 


16. Voir ci-dessus la note 5. 


17. An Account of the Manners and Customs of the Modern Egyptians (Londres, Charles Knight, 
1837), 2 volumes. Nerval mentionne cet ouvrage dans sa lettre a Gautier du 2 mat 1843. 





VOYAGES ROMANTIQUES 191 


place au pressentiment, si bien que c’est souvent comme si je retrouvais tout 
a coup de vieux réves oubliés"®. 


Les voyageurs font ainsi état de joies qui sont a l’évidence de nature 
bovaryste. Parcourant ile de Syra, le narrateur nervalien s’émerveille d’entendre 
autour de lui les conversations qu’il avait imaginées, jeune, lorsqu’il étudiait 
le grec’”: le voila devenu personnage de son réve, dans un monde antérieur qui 
vient, semble-t-il, de ressusciter pour lui. Les conditions se trouvent réunies 
pour entamer la quéte du « féminin céleste» (Nerval 248), en clair pour rechercher 
la jeune femme qui sera pour lui la médiatrice entre la terre et le Ciel. La suite 
du parcours nervalien, en Egypte, se déroule ainsi toute entiére sous le signe 
de amour mystique et du voile qu’il faut voir tomber pour accéder au monde 
idéal des réves. Mais ne trouvant plus réunies au Caire les conditions des 
initiations égyptiennes dillustre mémoire, le voyageur poursuivra sa quéte 
jusqu’au Liban, od vit la communauté druse, quia fui Egypte et qui perpéetue 
les traditions religieuses liées aux antiques croyances. Le héros voudrait voir 
se concrétiser ses espoirs de redemption en prenant femme et en s’installant 
dans cette communauté fidéle au passé. Mais on ne s’improvise pas Oriental:- 

fonctionnant comme un retour de la réalité, une maladie contractée dans les 
montagnes de Syrie oblige le voyageur a renoncer 4 tous ses grands projets. 

Cette bréve évocation du voyage nervalien suggére que nos romantiques 
ont éprouvé, en Orient, infiniment plus de déboires que de satisfactions. Pour 
quelques moments magiques ou |’Orient des livres semble enfin se montrer 
(Nerval 471 et 589), que de déceptions, que d’errances 4 la recherche — vaine 
— de la coincidence entre le monde réel et Punivers révé dans les bibliothéques! 
Mais comment pourrait-il en aller autrement? A l’évidence, l’Orient n’est pas 
le paradis des idées ou la porte du salut, les Orientaux ont depuis longtemps 
perdu la mémoire des souvenirs bibliques, le simple fe//ah égyptien se contrefiche 
des initiations antiques, d Hermés Trismégiste et du voile d’Isis. Chateaubriand 
déplorait de ne plus trouver le long du Nil les Egyptiens d’Hérodote(1 139). 
Reproche absurde, qui équivaudrait, dans l’autre sens, a entendre un érudit du 
Caire, visitant la France au XIX* siécle, se plaindre de ne plus croiser sur les 
bords de la Seine les Gaulois décrits par César. 

Lorsqu’ils consentent a soulever les yeux de leurs livres, les voyageurs 
romantiques ne peuvent que constater avec dépit que l’Orient vu d’Occident 
est un mirage, qu’un abime sépare la réalité orientale et les constructions des 
livres. Nerval doit convenir, au Caire, qu'il ne retrouve dans la capitale 
égyptienne ni la ville des califes, ni Punivers des Mille et Une Nuits. Et le 
narrateur a du également admettre — et faire admettre a ses lecteurs — que le 
réve voluptueux des libertins du XVIII’ siécle ne reposait sur aucune base solide: 


18. Correspondance, éd. J. Bruneau (Paris, Gallimard, 1973), I, 562. 


19. Voir G. de Nerval, CEwores completes, 11, 249 et suivantes, le passage qui commence par: «Je 
vis depuis ce matin dans un ravissement complet. [...]» 


192 MICHEL BRIX 


la plus grande morale régne en fait au sein des harems turcs et le sultan n’est 
pas le surhomme comblé qu’on imaginait. Quanta Flaubert, il note pour Louis 
Bouilhet que les ruines d’Egypte attirent l’attention par leurs inscriptions, certes, 
mais aussi parce qu’elles sont recouvertes de « merdes d’oiseaux” ». Ces 
derniéres prétent sans doute trés peu a lidéal... 

On dira que la solution de ce malentendu réside a l’évidence dans la prise 
en compte de l’Orient pour ce qu’il est. Mais les beaux esprits occidentaux 
semblent peu disposés a faire un sort a leurs chiméres. Du reste, |’Orient 
véritable était-il digne de leur attention? Comment s’intéresser a des religions 
ou l’on sanctifie des legumes, comme en Egypte, ou l’on prie devant des statues 
a huit bras, comme en Inde? Les voyageurs européens ne se montrent guére 
attirés par ces cultes, qui correspondent pourtant aux formes de la spiritualité 
propre aux Orientaux du XIX® siécle. Mais aux yeux de l’Occidental, seul 
importe ce constat: les religions antiques, dont sont issues nos propres 
croyances, n’ont plus cours. 

Que I’on ait parcouru Orient ou une terre moins lointaine, le voyage est 
triste et les conclusions qu’on en doit tirer sont améres: il faut renoncer a 
Villusion que le monde idéal des réves existe quelque part sur terre. Dans ces 
conditions, il aurait donc mieux valu ne jamais partir. On reconnait ici un des 
kitmotiv du récit de voyage romantique, que Nerval a décliné a maintes reprises, 
notamment dans sa lettre ouverte écrite d’Orient 4 Gautier sur la création de 
La Péria Opéra de Paris (sur le theme: c’est parce qu’il n’a pas quitté la France 
que Gautier a pu représenter « le Caire véritable, l Egypte immaculee », I, 766), 
dans l’introduction du Voyage en Oren? ou encore au début de Lorely: 


[...] de autre coté [du Rhin], la-bas a Phorizon, au bout du pont mouvant 
de soixante bateaux, savez-vous ce qu'il y aP... Il y a ’Allemagne! la terre de 
Goethe et de Schiller, le pays d’ Hoffmann; la vieille Allemagne, notre mére 
a tous!... Teutonia. 

N’est-ce pas la de quoi hésiter avant de poser je pied sur ce pont qui 
serpente, et dont chaque barque est un anneau; |’ Allemagne au bout? Et voila 
encore une illusion, encore un réve, encore une vision lumineuse qui va 
disparaitre sans retour de ce bel univers magique que nous avait créé la 
poésiel... La, tout se trouvait réuni, et tout plus beau, tout plus grand, plus 
riche et plus vrai peut-étre que les ceuvres de la nature et de l’art. Le 
microcosmos du docteur Faust nous apparait a tous au sortir du berceau; mais 
a chaque pas que nous faisons dans le monde réel, ce monde fantastique perd 
un de ses astres, une de ses couleurs, une de ses régions fabuleuses. Ainsi, 


20. Correspondance, 1, 633. 


21. «Aussi bien, c’est une impression douloureuse, a mesure qu’on va plus loin, de perdre, 
ville a ville et pays 4 pays, tout ce bel univers qu’on s’est créé jeune, par les lectures, par les 
tableaux et par les reves. Le monde qui se compose ainsi dans la téte des enfants est si riche 
et si beau, qu’on ne sait s’il est le résultat exagéré d’idées apprises, ou si c’est un ressouvenir 
dune existence antérieure et la geographie magique d’une planéte inconnue. » (CEwores completes, 
IT, 189.) 


VOYAGES ROMANTIQUES 193 


pour moi, déja bien des contrées du monde se sont réalisées, et le souvenir 
qu’elles m’ont laissé est loin d’égaler les splendeurs du réve qu’elles m’ont 


fait perdre. (III, 13-14) 


De méme, le Voyage en Espagne de Gautier fait plusieurs fois état des 
déceptions nombreuses éprouvées par un narrateur qui ne trouvait pas au-dela 
des Pyrénées "Espagne qu’il espérait, c’est-a-dire ’Espagne du Cid. Etle méme 
ouvrage rapporte que Heine aurait dit 4 Gautier, lorsque celui-ci s’apprétait a 
partir: «Comment ferez-vous pour parler de Espagne quand vous y serez 
allé?»* C’est pourquoi l’« homo romanticus » avoue, en définitive, sa prédilection 
pour les voyages imaginaires (c’est-a-dire les voyages qui se déroulent tout 
entiers dans une bibliothéque ou dans un chambre et ne demandent aucune 
« confirmation » au monde réel). A la fin du siécle encore, des Esseintes, le 
héros de Huysmans, refuse au dernier moment d’accomplir le voyage en 
Angleterre qu'il projetait, parce qu’il sait que le pays réel sera inférieur au pays 
révé. La géographie «magique» a plus de prix que la géographie tout court. 

On voit que les partis pris bovarystes ménent a Pimpasse, ou en tout cas 
a préférer l’immobilité, pour les voyageurs. Baudelaire n’était sans doute pas 
le seul, au XIX° siécle, 4 exprimer de ’humeur vis-a-vis de cette tendance 
impénitente a fuir la réalité. A l’époque romantique, le désir de trouver a 
Pétranger le pays des livres relevait du poncif littéraire, donc, a ce titre, de la 
convention. Et, tout en cédant en apparence a la convention, certains auteurs 
ont mis en question — bien que plus discrétement que Baudelaire — les 
habitudes mentales de leurs contemporains. 

Ainsi, Gautier, dans sa nouvelle intitulée La Toison d'or, en 1839, crée le 
personnage de Tiburce, qui ressemble étrangement au narrateur qui parle dans 
Un tour en Belgique (nous avons déja évoqué cette ceuvre de Gautier). Tiburce 
hait la réalité et vit dans un monde de livres et de peintures qu’il juge plus vrai 
que la nature. Peintre lui-méme, il a cependant déposé les pinceaux: ses 
productions — qui représentent 4 ses yeux autant de compromissions avec le 
réel— sont par trop inférieures 4 ses réves. Ce Jason en quéte de Toison d’or 
voyage et découvre avec éblouissement, dans la cathédrale d’Anvers, La Descente 
de croix de Rubens. Fasciné par le personnage de Madeleine, il croit retrouver 
celle-ci, au sortir de la cathédrale, en Gretchen, une petite dentelliére qui 
ressemble 4 une toile flamande. Mais la vie ne peut se hisser au niveau de l’idéal 
et Tiburce en vient rapidement a dédaigner la jeune fille, qui doit endurer la 
mauvaise humeur du peintre et sa nostalgie chaque fois qu’il est allé revoir le 
Rubens dans la cathédrale: Gretchen — que Tiburce appelle Madeleine — se 
révéle un reflet chaque jour plus imparfait de l’art. La logique voudrait que 
le peintre retournat seul a Paris et abandonnat la jeune fille a Anvers. Le récit 
ne se termine toutefois pas ainsi: Tiburce sent confusément que son désir de 
voir la vie se modeler sur I’art est insensé; Gretchen l’accompagne en France, 


22. Voyage en Espagne, éd. Jean-Claude Berchet, Paris, Garnier-Flammarion, 1981, p. 75. 


194 MICHEL BRIX 


parvient a se faire aimer pour elle-méme et a guérir Tiburce. Gueérison 
doublement salutaire, puisqu’elle permet aussi a l’artiste — qui accepte enfin 
le caractére imparfait de toute réalisation humaine— de reprendre ses pinceaux. 

Gautier n’était donc pas sans lucidité sur le caractére pernicieux de certaines 
des conventions littéraires qui régnaient a son époque et dont il a lui-méme joué 
dans ses propres récits de voyage. On doit sans doute en dire autant de Nerval. 
Certes, le Voyage en Orent nous décrit les errances d’un narrateur qui identifie 
son itinéraire a la recherche du salut individuel, mais l’échec final du héros — 
échec a mettre au compte de l’auteur, moins naif que le voyageur qui semble 
s’exprimer en son nom — montre au lecteur frangais Pimpossibilité, voire 
Vabsurdité, d’une quéte inspirée par des idées toutes faites sur l’Orient et 
ignorante des Orientaux eux-mémes. Dans le Voyage en Orient, la peinture des 
tentations bovarystes du narrateur est non seulement contrebalancée par l’échec 
de sa quéte, mais aussi par la volonté de ne point revenir au pays sans avoir 
acquis une certaine sagesse. Pourquoien effet aller si loin de chez soi chercher 
une terre maternelle et régénératrice, dans des contrées qui au fond nous sont 
et nous resteront radicalement étrangéres? Les Faux Sau/niers paraissent peu 
avant l’édition définitive du Voyage en Orcent et racontent les excursions de Nerval 
dans le Valois, c’est-a-dire sur les terres qui sont bien cette fois ses terres 
maternelles, — excursions rendues possibles par la quéte d’un ouvrage qu’on 
ne veut pas retrouver’. L’Orient aura au moins appris 4 Nerval 4 enquéter sur 
ses racines a lui plutot que sur celles qu’indiquent les livres. Chateaubriand 
a-t-il— tardivement — recu lui aussil’inspiration d’une sagesse analogue? II n’est 
pas interdit de le penser. Ce grand voyageur, qui s’est si souvent plaint de se 
trouver loin de ses bases™, a demandé 4 étre enterré dans sa ville natale et a 
laissé pour la postérité ce dernier message, a la fin des Mémoires d’Outre-Tombe: 


L’homme n’a pas besoin de voyager pour s’agrandir; il porte avec lui 
limmensité. Tel accent échappé de votre sein ne se mesure pas et trouve 
un écho dans des milliers d’ames: qui n’a point en soi cette mélodie, la 
demandera en vain a l’univers. Asseyez-vous sur le tronc de l’arbre abattu 
au fond des bois: si dans loubli profond de vous-méme, dans votre 
immobilité, dans votre silence, vous ne trouvez pas l’infini, il est inutile de 
vous égarer aux rivages du Gange. (IV, 580) 


23. Il s’agit du livre racontant la vie de ’abbé de Bucquoy. Les Faux Saulniers oni paru en 
feuilleton du 24 octobre au 22 décembre 1850; l’édition définitive du Voyage en Orent est de 
mars 1851. 


24. Voir notamment, dans les Mémoires d’Outre-Tombe, le passage ot Chateaubriand évoque les 
habitants de Combourg qui étaient recus au chateau: «Plus sages et plus heureux que moi, ils 
[les T'rémaudan] n’ont point perdu de vue les tours du chateau que j’ai quitté depuis trente ans; 
ils font encore ce qu’ils faisaient lorsque j’allais manger le pain bis a leur table; ils ne sont point 
sortis du port dans lequel je ne rentrerai plus» (Mémoires d’Outre-Tombe, éd. Jean-Claude Berchet, 
Paris, Bordas, 1989, I, 177.) 


VOYAGES ROMANTIQUES 195 


Il ne s’agit pas de renoncer a voyager, mais de renoncer a une conception 
livresque du voyage rédempteur; il s’agit aussi de voir au lieu de lire et surtout 
de se rendre dans des endroits choisis par le coeur et non par esprit. Rousseau 
Vavait déja noté dans son Emik, ot il préconise pour son éléve un voyage de 
deux ans. Mais pas n’importe quel voyage: Emile doit comprendre qu'il est 
vain d’aller chercher le bonheur loin de sa patrie, ou 1 'appellent tous ses devoirs; 
«{...] et Pun de ces devoirs — ajoute le oe d’Emile 4 l’adresse de celui-ci 
— est ’attachement pour le lieu de ta naissance™.» Chateaubriand et Nerval ont 
dd finalement admettre eux aussi, peut-étre 4 leurs dépens, la sagesse de la lecon 
dE mik. 

Néanmoins, cette sagesse ne parait pas encore, aujourd’hui, universellement 
partagée. Edward Said rapporte, au début de son ouvrage sur L‘Onentahsme, 
anecdote de ce journaliste fran¢ais qui séjournait 4 Beyrouth pendant la guerre 
civile de 1975-1976 et — singeant Chateaubriand pleurant au Caire l’Egypte 
d’Hérodote — écrivait avec tristesse, 4 propos de la ville basse éventrée: «Elle 
avait semblé autrefois faire partie [...] de ’Orient de Chateaubriand et de 
Nerval”.» Cependant, si ’époque romantique représente |’age d’or du récit de 
voyage bovaryste, les écrivains de la premiére moitié du XIX* siécle qui se sont 
attachés 4 illustrer la vanité de ces quétes rédemptrices ont conféré au genre 
quelques-uns de ses accents modernes, que nous nous contenterons ici de 
suggérer. 

Ainsi, la dénonciation du bovarysme est a son tour devenue un lieu commun 
de la littérature de voyage: on ne va plus chercher a l’étranger la confirmation 
de ce que disent les livres, mais on entreprend au contraire de montrer que les 
pérégrinations qu’on accomplit n’ont rien d’un « réve éveillé », que les livres 
mentent et qu’il donnent une image complétement fausse du pays visité (en 
Gréce, il n’y a pas un dieu derriére chaque bosquet; les harems turcs ne 
correspondent pas aux réves des libertins du XVIII‘ siécle; ...). La dimension 
proprement littéraire devient de la sorte un repoussoir et le voyageur disqualifie 
les relations antérieures en les dénoncant comme des fictions, courant ainsi lui- 
méme le risque — bien sir — que son propre récit subisse un sort identique, 
plus tard. 

Dans une perspective analogue, les voyageurs choisissent — plutot que 
d’appliquer sur les réalités étrangéres les grilles symboliques de ’Occident — 
de mettre en évidence le constat montaigniste des «bigarrures morales» entre 
les peuples. Ces différences teémoignent— contre la propension des Européens 
a croire 4 Puniversalité de leurs valeurs — que celles-ci ne sont pas partout 


25. Jean-Jacques Rousseau, (Ewores completes, éd. publiée sous la direction de Bernard Gagnebin 
et Marcel Raymond, Paris, Gallimard, 1969, IV, 858. 


26. L’Onentalisme., p. 13; ce journaliste est Thierry Desjardins, auteur d’un ouvrage intitulé Le 
Martyre du Liban (Paris, Plon, 1976). 


196 MICHEL BRIX 


admises et ne sont pas moins relatives que les certitudes des Africains ou des 
Chinois. 

Enfin, le rejet des livres — ou en tout cas la volonté affichée de ne plus 
s'inféoder 4 eux — préserve chez le voyageur la spontanéité des sensations 
éprouvées au contact de la réalité étrangére. Dans la filiation du Voyage 
sentimental de Sterne, Stendhal a été le premier auteur marquant, en France, a 
porter l’accent sur la subjectivité du narrateur: c’est— loin de toute considération 
générale sur les pays étrangers — l’essence propre de cette subjectivité que le 
récit des pérégrinations doit restituer. Avec Stendhal, le voyageur cesse de fixer 
les yeux sur horizon fabuleux situé au-dela des contrées visitées — on se lasse 
aussi de l’infini,— et il se contente de regarder ou il marche. C’est le meilleur 
moyen de ne pas trébucher. 


Facultés universitaires “Notre-Dame de la Paix”, Namur 


Ouvrages cités 


Baudelaire, Charles. Giavres completes, ed. Claude Pichois. Paris, Gallimard, 1975, t. I. 


Chateaubnand, René de. Giuvres romanesques et voyages, éd. Maurice Regard. Paris, 
Gallimard, 1969, t. II. 


Nerval, Gérard de. Ewvres completes, ed. dirigée par Jean Guillaume et Claude Pichois. 
Paris, Gallimard, 1984, t. II . 


JONATHAN SMITH 





Psychoanalysis, Deconstruction, Hodoeporics: 
Tabucchi 


Ma a lei perché interessano le storie altrui? Anche lei deve 
essere incapace a riempire i vuoti fra le cose. Non le sono 
sufficient 1 suoi propn sogni? 

(Piccok equivoc senza importanza 46) 


abucchi’s fictions echo and mimic each other in a complex event of 

meaning, here studied in the hodoeporic strategy launched by Pzazza 

dTtaka (1975; written 1973) and “Il gioco del rovescio” (1981; writ- 
ten 1978; I/ gioco del rovescio 11-24).! These works are informed by elements 
of psychoanalysis cognate with those deployed in Tabucchi’s 1990 volume 
on Pessoa (considered in section I), and illuminated by a sketch of the 
global (or galactic) event given in I/ piccolo navigho (1978; written 1975): this 
second novel is examined in section III, with an uncollected Pessoa essay 
and the 1988 preface to I/ gioco. Sections II and IV respectively consider 
hodoeporics and psychoanalysis in Piazza dTtaha, and in “Il gioco.” Partly 
following Derrida, the story re-positions psychoanalysis relative to Pessoa, 
in a different configuration from that of the criticism, and in Tabucchi’s 
first hodoeporic setting. It also fictionalizes a context for Piazza dTtaka, re- 
interpreting the novel as an effect of narcissism: by de-stabilizing the 
novel’s emblematic presentation of Italian history, and the subject position 
it presupposes, the hodoeporic démarche initiates an analysis of subjective 
identities and objective realities continued in subsequent fictions. Section V 
sketches broader affinities between this project and Derrida’s. 


1. Monga’s neologism is adopted with a view to conveying the singular inventiveness of 
Tabucchi’s project relative to its contexts, in Italian literary culture and beyond; thanks to the 
editor for extending the hospitality of this themed number of Azna/i to its presentation. 


2. Tabucchi metaphorizes the de-centered movement of Pessoa’s writing as a “galassia che 
non sta in nessun luogo” (Un baule pieno d gente 69); his own shares something of this, al- 
though my argument will minimize the parallelism, which might mask a concerted develop- 
ment of his fiction informed by other debts. These also distinguish his project from the 
slightly arch postmodernism delineated in Palmieri’s “Per una volatile leggerezza”. 


Annali & Ttakianistica 21(2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


198 JONATHAN SMITH 


I. Tabucchi privileges The Ego and the Id (1923),3 but exploits the pivotal 
essay On Narcissism (1914), the uncompleted systematization of the Papers on 
Metapsychology (1915-17), the elaborately speculative Beyond the Pleasure Prina- 
p (1920), and Freud’s excursion into social thought in Group Psychology and 
the Analysis of the Ego (1921).4 On Narcissism canvasses the priority of in- 
stincts of self-preservation, self-regard, and self-aggrandizement over those 
investing external objects, but this is reversed in The Ego and the Id: the ego, 
and the instincts invested in it, are now specialized portions of the id. This 
narrative is complicated, however, by a conception of regressive narcissistic 
identification sketched in 1914, developed in Mourning and Melanchoha to 
decipher gratification in inaccessible objects or in redundantly excessive 
mourning over them, and re-appearing in Group Psychology to account for the 
distinction between sensual and idealizing love, and for compulsive com- 
mitments to groups, their leaders, and their ideals. The Ego and the Id devel- 
ops these arguments into a general model of sublimation, marking a path 
from (Oedipal) object loss, za narcissistic re-investment in the ego, to a de- 
sexualized one in new objects and aims: still revising conceptions sketched 
in The Interpretation of Dreams (1900), Freud now gives the first systematic 
exposition of the aggressive and self-punishing superego’s emergence from 
the dissolution of the Oedipus complex to channel the id’s energies into 
identification with received values.5 

Despite these Freudian presuppositions of the fiction, explicit psycho- 
analytic reference enters the Pessoa criticism in a 1977 interview where 
Zanzotto interprets the heteronymic poetry in Lacanian terms Tabucchi too 
will exploit (Un bauk 114-22). These include, first, the bars annotating divi- 
sion of consciousness from unconscious desire, and of signified meaning 
from the organization of the signifier structuring the unconscious, and, 
then, the three orders of the Imaginary (in which consciousness mis- 
recognizes itself, narcissistically, as rejoicing in a physical and moral integrity 
it cannot allow others, either in principle or in practice), the Symbolic (in 


3. See Sogni & sogni 86 and Un baule 29. 


4. For On Narassism: An Introduction, see On Metapsychology 59-98; for Papers on Metapsychology, 
99-268 (including Mourning and Melanchoha, 245-68); for Beyond the Pleasure Principle, 269-338; 
for Group Psychology, see Civilization, Soctety and Rekgion 91-178. 


5. Contrast this sketch, and Ricoeur’s detailed reconstruction of the movement from 1914 
and before to 1923 and after (115-229), with VoloSinov, first published in the West in Italy 
in 1977, where On Narassism marks Freud’s passage beyond the allegedly “spiccato carattere 
positiuistco” of his previous writings (81). Ricoeur’s study also defends psychoanalysis against 
criticism from the standpoint of positivist epistemologies (345-74), and is an important point 
of reference here partly because it is one for Derrida. Among truly introductory accounts of 
psychoanalysis, Easthope gives one of the least hidebound and most accessible. 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 199 


which it has structural conditions of possibility so barred from view that it 
can have only the most intermittent success in achieving either truthfulness 
or communication), and the Real, in which it intermittently suffers helpless 
incapacity relative to these demands (119).6 Yet whereas these are compo- 
nents of a Lacanian conceptualization of any subjectivity whatsoever, Zan- 
zotto also diagnoses in Pessoa a deficit of organization in the Symbolic, 
around the Nom-du-Pére, suggesting psychosis.’ Yet this is not derogatory: 
questioned as to Pessoa’s legacy, Zanzotto postulates 


un nuovo modo di “sentire” la socialita, modo che é ancora da inventare, 
in gran parte. Questo io che produce suoi duplicati [...] e che finisce per 
non sapere piu se sia I’ “originale” o una copia, da una parte dichiara il fal- 
limento di un discorso in cui un soggettivismo assoluto non puo che 
esplicitare la propria irrealta, ma ad un tempo azzera tutte le mistificazioni 
(e le spinte sadomasochistiche loro sottese), tutti 1 furor narcisistici che 
sono stati intrecciati finora al discorso sociale, pervertendolo. Dalla tabula 
rasa di Pessoa e degli altri: grandi autori a lui congeneri bisogna dunque n- 
partire. (122) 


Although Tabucchi’s fiction initially interrogates social relations wa the nar- 
cissism figured in Piazza dTtaka by an author’s hodoeporic (Freudian) fan- 
tasy, as it intersects with that of the (Lacanian) Imaginary, Un bauk’s post- 
1977 essays tentatively follow Zanzotto’s (heterodox) engagement with La- 
can’s re-formulation of the Oedipus complex as the infant’s entry into the 
Symbolic, and of psychopathology in terms of relations to language. 

Un baule is generally homogeneous with the 1979 introduction to 
Tabucchi’s translated selections re-printed as its first chapter (11-41; 155): 
whereas an uncollected 1975 essay refused “le suadenti diagnosi che insinu- 
ano complessi edipici, traumi infantili e disfunzioni sessuali per la decifrazi- 
one della moltepliticta (st) eteronimica” (“Interpretazione” 141), this one 
partly proposes and partly insinuates a diagnosis which subsequently in- 
forms essays on heteronymic poetry attributed to Alberto Caeiro and Al- 
varo de Campos (60-66; 76-92), and introductions to The Book of Disquietude 
ascribed to Bernardo Soares (67-75), and to Pessoa’s letters to Ophélia 


6. Bowie’s introduction is structured as a consecutive exposition of Imaginary, Symbolic, and 
Real; compare Easthope 44 and 89-92; these accounts share a common emphasis on the 
complexities of Lacan’s passage beyond Freud, complementing each other at many points. 


7. Expounded in Seminar III, and “On a question preliminary to any possible treatment of 


psychosis,” in Eorits: a selection 179-225; for a summary, see Hill 92-128; for an overview of 
Freudian antecedents, Laplanche-Pontalis 369-72. 


200 JONATHAN SMITH 


Queiroz (93-101).8 This material adapts Zanzotto’s thinking as it draws on 
psychoanalytic debate concerning traumas of separation from the mother 
(at birth, or, in the repression of fantasy, at the dissolution of the Oedipus 
complex), from the breast, or, in the interview, from the mother tongue.? 
Despite Zanzotto’s suggestion that “la linea di scissione psichico-letteraria 
non ha in Pessoa un rapporto evidenziato [...] col fatto linguistico” (118), 
Tabucchi’s interpretation refers to Pessoa’s emigration to South Africa aged 
eight and return to Portugal aged eighteen, implicating infantile trauma in a 
troubled adult relation to language. 

From one direction, Portugal’s deficits relative to other European cul- 
tures offered Pessoa scope to play multiple parts, as publisher, editor, and 
popularizer (not least, of both phenomenology and psychoanalysis), and as 
a writer in various genres and names. From another, Pessoa’s interrupted 
relation with a “portoghese caparbiamente reimparato” after returning to 
Lisbon is not a first cause (34), but repeats a trauma it re-interprets as radi- 
cal separation, generating a pathological sense of solitude: 


forse un giorno qualcuno ci dira, con maggiore credibilita di quanto non 
abbiano fatto finora quei critici che hanno adoperato con lui una fret- 
tolosa psicoanalisi, che il suo essere “negativo” consisteva in fondo in [...] 
un piccolo grumo che nato in una dimensione strettamente privata, forse 
familiare e infantile, certo esistenziale, é diventato Weltanschauung, ha as- 
sunto dimensioni ontologiche, ha trovato favorevole ambiente di crescita 
in un’epoca e in una cultura e ha inceppato il rettilineo condotto aristo- 
telico-cartesiano in cui correva la civilta occidentale; e ha creato ristagni, 
paludi, sconosciute diramazioni e inquietant criteri di intendere il rap- 
porto con se stessi e con gli altri, individualita e interindividualita, socialita 
e€ privatezza, normalita e follia. Quello che fu forse, in origine, l’oscuro 
grumo del bambino Ferdinando, é diventato il superbo peccato di intelli- 
genza del poeta Pessoa: da perversione di abdicare al reale per possedere l'essenza 
del real. Una radicale, quasi disgustata rimozione, che fa di Pessoa il piu 
sublime poeta del rovescio, dell’assenza e del negativo di tutto il Nove- 
cento. (23-24) 


8. Zenith provides material for illuminating comparisons and contrasts with Tabucchi’s crit- 
cism in introducing his translation Fernando Pessoa ¢” Co.: Selected Poems (1-36). 


9. Barzilai’s complex argument with Lacan is formulated as an account of his response to 
this debate, primarily as between Freud, Rank, Ferenczi, and Klein; this is helpfuliy comple- 
mented by Hill’s intermittent emphasis on the Lacanian conception of the mother tongue 
(62, 71, 84, 113, 137, 140; compare Easthope 92-97). The Tabucchi-Zanzotto interview is at 
odds with this, since both participants seems to identify the mother tongue as a term of 
propriety preceding alienation: Tabuccht’s fiction is less sanguine. 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 201 


This is the linchpin of an argument that heteronymy comforted Pessoa’s 
solitude as social, sexual, and marital relations could not, that his existence 
as Fernando Pessoa, including his abortive engagement, was a fiction no 
more compelling than the heteronyms’, and that his poetic genius was due 
to this enduring pathology. The phrasing, however, seems more obscure 
than a popularizing essay warrants: “rovescio” marks a syntactical climax, 
but has no obvious meaning. Insofar as Tabucchi assigns it one (or more), 
this happens in “Il gioco,” written the year before this essay’s publication: 
rather than being led by the reading of Pessoa, the fiction leads and outruns 
the thinking of the criticism. 

Freud’s 1910 Leonardo is both tempted and troubled by the linkage of 
genius with pathology.!° Un bauk’s preface cites the austerely literary author- 
ity of Blanchot’s essay “The Essential Solitude” (8-9), as if to screen some- 
thing marked in 1979 by emphatic repetitions and alliterations immediately 
following flat contradiction of the essay’s key thesis: 


Non c’é nessun caso clinico da scoprire nell’eteronimia di Pessoa [...]. Per 
spiegare Pessoa, e magari anche per neutralizzare l’inquietudine che egli ci 
comunica, si é parlato di turbe e di traumi, di carenza affettiva, di com- 
plesso edipico, di omosessualita rimossa. Forse c’é tutto questo e forse 
niente di questo: ma non é questo il punto e non é questo che conta. 
Quello che conta é, come egli ci ha detto, che “Ja letteratura, come tutta 
Varte, é la dimostrazione che la vita non basta”. (28) 


Yet Freud himself proposes that “an artist is originally a man (sic) who turns 
away from reality because he cannot come to terms with the renunciation of 
instinctual satisfaction which it at first demands, and who allows his erotic 
and ambitious wishes full play in the life of phantasy,” summarizing in 1911 
the findings of “Creative Writers and Day-dreaming” (1908),'! which are 
carried forward to the Introductory Lectures (1917) and Autobiographical Study 
(1925). Elements of this conceptualization can already be tracked in The 
Interpretation of Dreams, and Jokes and Their Relation to the Unconscious (1905): 
although “Creative Writers” and the “Formulations” sketch a concept of 
narcissism, they belong to a phase preceding the pivotal 1914 essay. 


10. Ricoeur accepts this ambiguity (163-77; 524-51); Lyotard (who like Kristeva leans toward 
the Kleinian tradition to associate the work of art with the work of mourning) makes it an 
occasion for skirmishing with the tradition, best summarized in “The Psychoanalytic Ap- 
proach,” and resistance to Lacan; see Peregrinations 11. For Leonardo da Vina and a Memory of 
his Childhood, see Freud, Art and Literature 143-231; for a recent overview, see Ellman 1-35. 


11. Quotation from “Formulations on the Two Principles of Mental Functioning,” in On 
Metapsychology 29-44 (41); for “Creative Writers,” see Art and Literature 129-41. 


202 JONATHAN SMITH 


Notwithstanding Freud’s avowed ignorance of the nature of artistic 
talent and technique, the conceptualization of “Creative Writers” and the 
associated texts has an important social dimension. According to the 
“Formulations”, the artist finds a way back to reality 


by making use of special gifts to mould his phantasies into truths of new 
kinds, which are valued by men as precious reflections of reality. Thus in 
a certain fashion he actually becomes the hero, the king, the creator, or 
the favourite he desired to be, without following the long round-about 
path of making real alterations in the external world. But he can only 
achieve this because other men feel the same dissatisfaction as he does 
with the renunciation demanded by reality. (41-42) 


Alongside Lacanian ones, Tabucchi speculates on Freudian motifs: psycho- 
analysis is uncertain of normality’s boundaries with narcissistic pathology, 
and envisages “truths of new kinds” moulded by artists within the margin 
of doubt, and socially validated. In critical illustration, Pzazza d’'Itaha features 
a narcissistic and hodoeporic narrative-within-the-narrative, written (and 
two of its three parts published) in the 1930s by Melchiorre, with a view to 
reversing his physical, social, intellectual, and erotic unfitness. 


II. From childhood, Melchiorre is characterized like Pessoa by solitude, 
and (like several of Tabucchi’s more-or-less autobiographical characters, in 
the 1988 preface to J/ gioco and elsewhere) by states of fear (51-54; 56-57; 59; 
65-67; 76-77). He is also a botanist mangué, and diabetic, unfit for military 
service: his fiction “a sfondo autobiografico” recounts the scientist and ex- 
plorer Italo Ferro’s search for a curative lichen (80). It also transforms 
Melchiorre’s and his cousin Garibaldo’s symmetrical rivalry for Asmara’s 
love into a sado-masochistic fantasy positioning Italo symmetrically be- 
tween Queen Luana, “una donna sanguinaria e bellissima, che dopo averlo 
fatto prigioniero cercava di farlo parlare adescandolo con le sue grazie,” and 
the “dedizione della schiava Nubia,” who helps Italo escape to accomplish 
his mission and bring “la luce della civilta di Roma al popolo oppresso dalla 
tirannica regina [...] che [...] si lasciava bruciare viva su una pira di legni 
aromatici” — like Vergil’s Dido, but amidst a “terremoto biblico” (81). 
Melchiorre’s fiction translates his demand for Asmara’s love with an oneiric 
insistence: fantasy “does not simply give expression to a thought, but repre- 
sents the wish fulfilled as a hallucinatory experience” (Freud, introductory 
Lectures 160). This accounts for Tabucchi’s naming his heroine for the cap1- 
tal of Eritrea: the thought of a love whose name evokes Africa translates 
itself into the fantasy experience of a hodoeporic space (and African lovers) 
subject to the domination of Italo’s heroic ego (and Melchiorre’s). The 
abortive third installment narcissistically repudiates the racial, sexual, and 
confessional aggression of the first two, finding “Italo alle prese con una 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 203 


tribt di negri piccoli e lascivi che andavano a rapire ragazze bianche sulla 
costa per sacrificarle ai loro idoli di pietra” (81). 

Illustration of “Creative Writers” and the “Formulations” is co- 
ordinated with the story of Melchiorre’s Fascist militancy: rather than by 
objective economic or subjective religious interest in opposing Bolshevism, 
this is motivated — in the terms of Group Psychology — by narcissistic need to 
identify with a collectivity, sufficient to overcome his distaste for squadnsta 
violence and physical jerks (79-80). Yet despite being rewarded with com- 
radely respect (82), and “una targa d’argento con due barche a vela e un 
fascio littorio messa in palio dalla Trbuna della Riviera” (81), Melchiorre’s 
narcissism is his downfall, in practical as in literary terms. His publications 
are not summarized as the “truths of new kinds” Freud envisages, and they 
fail to win him recognition, appearing under a pseudonym he plans to 
abandon on completing the third installment, as a “sorpresa per Asmara” 
(82). Her preference for Garibaldo occasions Melchiorre’s suicide with his 
literary project still uncompleted (89-91; 99-100; 109-112), after attempts at 
courtship extending from the middle of the First to the middle of the Sec- 
ond World War: “the object-cathexis, when obstacles come in its way, can 
regress to narcissism,” and “identification with the object [...] then becomes 
a substitute for the erotic cathexis, the result of which is that in spite of the 
conflict with the loved person the love-relation need not be given up” 
(Mourning and Melanchoha 258). 

Melchiorre’s story extrapolates from psychoanalysis criteria by which a 
literary project stands to be judged, aesthetically and practically. These ar- 
gue the insufficiency of what Derrida calls the hedonism or eudaemonism 
of “Freud’s psychoanalysis of the work of art [...] in the essays prior to The 
Uncanny (1919)” (Dissemination 248). However, the extrapolation turns on 
the way Lacan’s account of narcissism extends Freud’s by postulating the 
(infantile) genesis but also the persistence of the (adult) ego in the narcissis- 
tic delusions, rivalries, aggressivity, and fragility of the stade du miroir.'2 Mel- 
chiorre’s relation with Garibaldo is one of specular, Imaginary, rivalry, exac- 
erbated rather than mitigated by childhood separation through contingen- 
cies of family history positioning them, in the Symbolic, as social and politi- 
cal antagonists. 

The tripartite structure of Melchiorre’s fiction mirrors Piazza dTtaka’s. 
Melchiorre takes rat poison at the climax of the second of three sempz, after 
Garibaldo’s narcissistically spec(tac)ular defiance towards his Fascist cousin 
has provoked the German occupier to herd into church, before burning it 


12. The canonical texts are “The Mirror Stage as Formative of the Function of the J,” and 
“Agoressivity in Psychoanalysis,” collected in Eons 1-7 and 8-29 respectively; for commen- 
tary, see Bowie 17-43, and Easthope 58-65. Barzilai details Lacan’s re-interpretations of the 
myths of Narcissus and Oedipus: see especially 106-10. 


204 JONATHAN SMITH 


to the ground, all those of their fellow-villagers whom Asmara cannot first 
lead to safety. This haunts Garibaldo (and his dreams), driving his post-war 
career as custodian of popular memory, and aspirant working-class leader 
so suicidally obdurate as to be singled out for assassination by a police 
sniper, narrated in the novel’s opening epi/ogo as well as the third ftempo’s 
conclusion. This story of the cousins’ symmetically suicidal destinies repu- 
diates the second sempo’s vindictiveness towards Melchiorre, mirroring his 
own narcissistically projected repudiation of his fiction’s aggessivity in a 
fantasy of blind self-sacrifice that is no less narcissistic: whether this is 
imagined to be driven by Garibaldo’s superego or by traumatic repetition 
compulsion (Beyond the Phasure Prinapk), the entire novel (not just the story 
of Melchiorre’s authorship) is informed by psychoanalysis. 

Garibaldo’s earliest memory is his father’s conviction in the cause for 
which he (like his own father Plinio, Garibaldo’s grandfather) dies: “che 
Pacqua che muoveva il mulino era di tutti come il grano che macinava, che 
le folaghe che scendevano nei paduli a novembre erano di tutti, e che le 
guardie regie c’erano per ammazzare chi se n’era accorto” (15). Corre- 
spondingly, the grandson dies cursing the king, anachronistically since “il re 
ormai aveva fatto fagotto e vigeva la costituzione della repubblica fondata 
sul lavoro” (1), but convinced of legality’s contingency, and of a corre- 
spondingly arbitrary alienation from a material plenitude otherwise, in prin- 
ciple, available. This conviction was communicated wa his father by Don 
Milvio, who preaches Christian socialism (64-65), having dreamed a me- 
chanical fulfillment of the logic according to which “Siete tutti figli di Dio, 
dunque siete tutti uguali, dunque il grano é di tutti” (46): 


passava le ore a progettare una macchina idraulica dell’uguaglianza. Con- 
sisteva in una pompa centrale, piazzata in mezzo al granaio municipale 
che raccoglieva tutti i depositi della Fattoria. La pompa aveva un collet- 
tore che distribuiva il grano aspirato dalle bocche in altre pompe che us- 
civano dalle finestrelle del granaio e che partivano su Borgo, come le 
zampe di un ragno mostruoso. (45) 


Don Milvio eventually renounces the priesthood, confiding a secret wise- 
woman Zelmira reveals in the concluding appendix (115-17; 149-50): his 
loss of this faith. This is less anti-climactic thematically than in narrative 
terms, denouncing dreams of technological as much as natural material 
plenitude for their religiosity, and inanity: the novel’s endorsement of psy- 
choanalysis places them (and Garibaldo’s convictions) on a par with Mel- 
chiorre’s hodoeporic fantasy. Yet once the novel is re-interpreted by “Il 
gioco” (in conjunction with I/ piccolo navigho), this endorsement is itself de- 
stabilized: there is no return to empiricist or positivist pieties, but no de- 
struction either of literary art by psychoanalytic theory. 





PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 205 


III. “Interpretazione” links geographical displacement to that of the bor- 
ders of fictional with autobiographical, and thus with factual and historical, 
narratives. Pessoa’s “Shakespeare Problem,” for Tabucchi, “si riassume nel 
cercare di individuare con quali mezzi o grazie a quale strattagemma (s7¢) 
Shakespeare é riuscito a tradurre sul piano del teatro (una finzione) la finzi- 
one della vita (un teatro)” (151). Glossed as “ ‘il problema di Shakespeare’ 
(e di Pessoa)” (ébid.), addressed by “il Play within the play di Amleto e di Pros- 
pero” (153), the problem is also Tabucchi’s own. The essay does not dis- 
cuss Shakespeare’s illusionistic achievements elsewhere, although devices of 
“the x-within-the-x” figure prominently in Tabucchi’s fiction, yet without 
fully accounting for its approaches to the “problem”: in direct response to 
it, he repeatedly positions framed narratives alongside their enframing 
counterparts, blurring hierarchical relationships. Piazza dTtaka’s relation to 
“Tl gioco” is a case in point. 

Despite its cursory handling of Shakespeare, “Interpretazione” reads 
Pessoa’s drama O Mannheiro, with painstaking geometry, as presenting a 
“Play within the play within the play” (155). Yet this formula is scarcely 
adequate, since the third play is the same as the first, and its protagonist, the 
shipwrecked mariner of the title, dreams escape from the dream narrated to 
her female companions by the female protagonist of the second: “Inter- 
pretazione” transmits to Tabucchi’s fiction this linkage of “the x-within-the- 
x” with problems concerning inter-subjectivity and sexual difference. 

There is also a challenging formulation of the relation between Pessoa’s 
subsequent poetry and his existence, allegorizing O Mannheiro autobio- 
graphically: “Stavolta il Marinaio-Pessoa non si trova in un’isola deserta per 
costruire a proprio agio, in assenza di una patria, una patria di sogno; la sua 
patria é intorno a lui: la realta massiccia e fittizia non gli lascia scampo” 
(157-58). These are hodoeporic matters of place: the essay gestures at re- 
habilitation of Pessoa through ironic reading of seemingly nationalistic po- 
etry which would otherwise have been unacceptable (157-63; 183-85), but 
now offers “la fotografia pietosa e amara di un paese che non ha ancora 
trovato la sua identita storica, che si é perduto nella vastita dei mari, che é il 
fantasma di se stesso” (184). When the finzione della vita was introduced, 
quotations from Pessoa’s Textos filosoficos hinted at moral disapprobation 
(151-52): this is now incidental to suggestions that fimzione is a factor of na- 
tionality, is structured by sexual difference, and is accordingly a de-centered 
process, not at individuals’ discretion. What is fictitious to the point of 
ghostliness is the plenitude of the objective realities and subjective identities 
so given: this essay formulates a problem the fiction then explores chiefly 
with reference to Italy. 

Despite some warrant in the Textos filosoficos for expanding the secon- 
dary concept of finzione to include the primary rea/ in opposition to which it 


206 JONATHAN SMITH 


was previously defined, this already hints at readings of Derrida, while the 
Shakespeare Problem’s under-motivated prominence substitutes for the 
psychoanalytic reference of the post-1977 essays:'3 I/ piccolo navigho, contem- 
poraneously with “Interpretazione”, shows psychoanalysis directly impli- 
cated in the x-within-the-x. Sesto degli Angeli is an autobiographer-cum- 
historian who compiles a family history over four generations, from docu- 
ments, artifacts, oral testimony, and personal recollection: the story cork- 
screws into the storytelling which is its concluding event, but was already 
under way in chapter 1. Third-person devices of impersonal omniscience 
discriminate (in a double register, of psychological as well as historical re- 
membering and forgetting) between events that have left some trace, and 
those that have not, while deviations from verisimilitude are re-naturalized 
as Sesto’s linguistic or mental aberrations. The last major event preceding 
his researches is his confinement on grounds of criminal insanity, which 
leaves him in amnesiac need of the narrative of his own origins he sets out 
to recover on release: like Pessoa’s heteronymy, the narrative-within-the 
narrative straddles the border between pathology and therapy. 

Sesto’s delirium is triggered by Ivana’s death in Florence while he is in 
Rome for Togliatti’s funeral, although it is unclear whether she was killed by 
police while leafleting for the PCI, or jumped from a bridge across the 
Arno. These doubts aggravate her previous elusiveness, and are amplified 
by indirect presentation of her last day, in the testimony of the philosopher- 
character nicknamed Socrate. Yet she also substitutes, as the inaccessible 
object of Sesto’s affections, for his mother, whose first husband (Sesto’s 
homonymous father) fought in the Resistance, but was betrayed by his 
boyhood playmate Anselmo Zanardelli, captured, deported to Germany, 
and never returned. After her second marriage (to Zanardelli, now turned 
Christian Democrat building developer), Amalia fades into invisibility, and 
death, while Sesto responds by opting for a silence maintained to the day 
Zanardelli dies in an accident on one of his own building sites, then ab- 
sconds, to be politicized by Ivana. Beside substituting Ivana for Amalia, the 
novel moves from the murderously narcissistic rivalry of the Lacanian stade 
du miroir, between Sesto senior and Zanardelli, to an Oedipal one between 
Sesto junior and Zanardelli, but further plays on the ambiguity of Lacan’s 
dramatis personae to blur this distinction in the context of Sesto’s relations 
with Socrate, while the psychoanalytic allegory is condensed into a sche- 
matic political one. Sesto’s story is one of Oedipal mourning and its re- 


13. Hamlet in particular is canonical for psychoanalysis; see The Interpretation of Dreams 362-70 
(and note that this is the first-published passage on the Oedipus complex); for commentary, 
see Lyotard, “Jewish Oedipus”; Lacan’s discussion in the sixth year of his seminar is ex- 
cerpted in Felman 11-52; for Dernda on Hamlet, compare Specters 3-48 and 173-75. 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 207 


enactment, of narcissistic identification with its objects (Amalia, Ivana), and 
of associated idealizations, erotic and political. 

Although this novel has been marginalized within the corpus (never 
having been re-issued in Italy), and the 1999 French translation carries a 
preface embracing this as policy (7), its psychoanalytic themes re-echo 
through the later fiction in conjunction with that of the psychic and cultural 
legacies of dictatorship and civil war to Tabucchi’s generation.'* This con- 
figuration also enriches the sense of the x-within-the-x by disturbing the 
distinction between literal autobiography and its fictional metaphorizations: 
“Tl gioco” retro-actively frames Piazza dTtaha, re-interpreting it as a narra- 
tive of origins responding to Maria’s death as Sesto’s history responded to 
Ivana’s. Published in 1975, re-interpreted in this way in 1981, and re-issued 
in 1993, Piazza d'Itaka speaks to situations later works thematize intermit- 
tently and obliquely, to question the possibility of narrating their genealogy 
with the directness Sesto attempts. Whereas he becomes a storyteller to re- 
establish a sense of identity, “Il gioco” exploits hodoeporic settings to push 
this problem beyond reach, aggravating doubts about community in politi- 
cal and erotic commitments. Although “Il gioco” is the first canonical fic- 
tion to name him, this interpretation should erode the established one that 
Tabucchi’s later fiction is distinguished from the early novels by signs of 
Pessoa's influence: these are, rather, traces of psychoanalytic (and decon- 
structive) thinking, some of it deployed in the criticism, and informing the 
fiction throughout.!® 

The 1988 preface to I/ gioco asserts the story’s “riflesso di autobiografia” 
(5). This might refer to its combination of Iberian settings, the protago- 
nist’s expertise in Portuguese literature, and first-person storytelling; yet 
Oedipal mourning re-enacted, beside informing I/ piccolo navigho and now “Il 
gioco,” is several times re-staged in later works (suggesting autobiography, 
metaphorically refracted, might spread more widely through the corpus),'° 
while The Ego and the Id suggests this is the schema of any human existence 
whatsoever (and thus that there would not in principle be any identifiable 


14. On childhood in the 1940s and 1950s, see “I pomeriggi del sabato” (I/ gioco 55-76), “Ghi 
incanti” (Piccoli equivoi 47-62), and “Capodanno” (L‘angelo nero 107-52). On adulthood in 
some fraught contexts given by the history of the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, see “Piccoli 
equivoci” and “Isole” (Piccoli equivod 9-18 and 99-106), and “Il battere d’ali di una farfalla” 
(Langelo nero 71-90); among the novels, I/ filo dell’onzzonte and Requiem. One short story be- 
longing to both cycles is “Dolores Ibarruri versa lacrime amare” (I/ gro 93-100). 


15. For a stimulating discontinuist reading (although I here take issue with it), see Francese; 
for an intuition that the periodization may be suspect (and an invitation to develop it, here 
accepted), Greco; for a survey of criticism associating Tabucchi and psychoanalysis, Cannon; 
the contextualization given in my “Tabucchi Echoes Lacan” is here presupposed. 


16. In Péccoh equivoa, beside “Piccoli equivoci” (9-27), see “Rebus” (29-46); in L ‘angelo nero, 
“Voci portate da qualcosa” (11-28); among the novels, Requiem. 


208 JONATHAN SMITH 


limit to autobiography’s metaphorical refractions). Autobiography so con- 
ceived is shadowed by mortality, as sanction in respect of which desires 
now beyond recognition were repressed, as loss of an object whose substi- 
tutes are only ever attainable in mourning, and as horizon of these scenar- 
ios’ suicidal or murderous resolution in fact or fantasy: mortality lines 
memory and expectation, as it must those of any other subjectivity, and any 
relation with it. As in I/ piccolo navigho, autobiography, the writing or narra- 
tion of a life, will be entwined in “Il gioco” (and elsewhere) with others’, 
and with death: repetition of mourning is the axis around which the fiction 
spirals, in a multiple helix of self-consciously metaphorical proximity to a 
literal autobiography never attained but always soliciting an interpretation 
the texts nonetheless refuse. 

This auto-hetero-thanato-bio-graphy disturbs the mimetic relation be- 
tween model and copy, existential template and fictional product: as staged 
in the fiction, the derivation of a narrative of origins is an opaque process 
of symbolization including moments of censorship as well as fantastic in- 
terpolations. Both are modelled in J/piccol navigho, and signalled by the rela- 
tively less and more naturalistic modes of Piazza dTtaha and “Il gioco.” Yet 
beyond this, the fictional autobiography of I/ piccolo navigho chronologically 
precedes the ostensibly autobiographical fiction of “Il gioco” despite logi- 
cally following it. This displaces the 1975 essay’s formulation of the Shake- 
speare Problem in hierarchical terms of the x-within-the-x, partly in re- 
sponse to Derrida’s suggestion that received aesthetic concepts (including 
Freud’s own) are decisively troubled in “The ‘Uncanny’ ” by “the paradoxes 
of the double and of repetition,” and “the blurring of the boundary lines 
between ‘imagination’ and ‘reality’, between the ‘symbol’ and the ‘thing it 
symbolizes’.”!7 Twice flagged “to be continued” (Dissemination 220; 268), 
these observations mark the discontinuity with earlier Freudian texts (248), 
and Freud’s mounting puzzlement in this one over fiction as such (268). 

Derrida’s continuation develops Dissemination’s challenge to received 
conceptualizations of literature as mimesis, positioning it within a wider in- 
vestigation into the limits and unrecognized resources of the conceptual 
heritage, not least as this is transmitted to and by psychoanalysis.18 Tabuc- 


17. Quotation from Derrida, Dissemination 220; for “The “Uncanny” see Freud, Art and Lit- 
erature 335-76. 


18. On differences with Lacan, see Posttions (79-91 and 107-14), where they are presented as 
arising from the enquiry reported in Of Grammatology, and The Post Card, especially 411-96, as 
well as Resistances, especially 39-69; on Freud, see Archive Fever, with The Post Card, especially 
257-409, and Resistances, especially 1-38; for commentary, Bennington “Circanalysis (The 
thing itself),” Interrupting Derrida 93-109, and Major, “Derrida and psychoanalysis,” in Cohen 
296-314. On mimesis, see, in particular, “The Double Session,” in Dissemination 173-286, as 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 209 


chi’s 1988 preface follows The Post Card — also referenced by Notturno indtano 
(83-89), as well as by a key episode in Piazza d'Italia (101) — in re-iterating 
the privilege accorded “The ‘Uncanny’ ” in Dissemination. 


I] racconto che da il titolo al libro, e che del suo spirito modella tutti gli al- 
tri in un’analoga visione delle cose, fu il primo che concepii, e lo scrissi 
nell’estate del 1978. L’ultimo [...] fu scritto nell’estate del 1981. Fra queste 
due date [...] fu anche la mia vita d’allora. Anche se non sono ancora riu- 
scito a capire qual é il nesso che unisce la vita che viviamo e 1 libn che 
scriviamo, non posso negare che il primo racconto mantenga un riflesso 
di autobiografia. Teatro, Paradiso celeste e Voci sono invece racconti che mi 
furono raccontati. Di mio c’é il modo di raccontarli, che fa si che questi 
racconti siano questi racconti e non altri. Infine, altri racconti sono nati 
spontaneamente dentro di me senza nessuna apparente relazione con cio 
che conoscevo o avevo vissuto. Ma tutti [...] sono legati a una scoperta: 
l’essermi accorto un giorno, per le imprevedibili circostanze della vita, che 
una certa cosa che era “cosi” era invece anche in un altro modo. Fu una 
scoperta che mi turbo. A rigore, questo libro é stato dettato dalla mera- 
viglia. Ma dire dalla paura, forse, sarebbe piu esatto. Il nspetto che si deve 
alla paura mi impedisce di credere che l’illusione di addomesticarla con la 
scrittura soffochi la consapevolezza, in fondo all’anima, che alla prima oc- 
casione essa mordera com’é nella sua natura. (I/ gioco 5-6) 


The metaphor of domestication and verb “turbo” cross-reference some- 
thing elsewhere called “il perturbante di freudiana memoria, un Unheimlich,” 
albeit by 1997 “non pit desunto da un racconto di Hoffmann, ma dalla 
Storia” (La gastrite di Platone 26).!° In 1988, another autobiographical narra- 
tive than that of “Il gioco” folds into its own turbulent opacity the genesis 
of various stories, catalogued as narrated fact (however attenuated by the 
terms “nesso” and “riflesso”), repetition of stories heard (more or less styl- 
ized), or unaccountable inspiration. All three types are linked to a scoperta 
issuing in an intellectual uncertainty evocative of that attested by Freud as a 
factor of the uncanny (Art and Literature 368-76): that the third type has no 
apparent relationship with the author’s circumstances suggests Tabucchi’s 
discovery (somewhat like Freud’s uncertainty, and the emotions ensuing in 


well as Bennington, “Derrida’s Mallarmé,” in Interrupting Derrida 47-58, Clark, and Hobson, 
“Derrida and representation,” in Cohen 132-51; this section and those following also pre- 
suppose Attridge’s interview with Derrida in Acts of Literature, “This strange institution called 
literature” (33-76), and “From Psyche: Invention of the Other” (310-43); for commentary, 
see Hillis Miller, “Derrida and literature,” in Cohen 58-81. 


19. Correspondingly, for Derrida on the phantasm, see Dissemination 206-207, and compare 
with Specers, especially 173-75, 184, 189 (together with Ads of Literature 44-45), and 195-96. 


210 JONATHAN SMITH 


both cases) pertains more to the literary work itself than to narrative enig- 
mas reported but unresolved (of which he nonetheless stages several). 

Tabucchi’s catalogue resumes a broad range of (classical, Romantic, 
modernist) mimetic conceptualizations of the literary work, as represen- 
tation of the world, expression of self, or imitation of the textuality in which 
others would represent or express their worlds or selves. However, these 
categories are mutually permeable, in principle (since a narrative of one type 
could feature as an event in one of another), and in practice: the putatively 
autobiographical enigmas of “Il gioco,” for instance, arise from stories told 
the narrator by others, and are resolved, if at all, by resources of oneiric 
vision. Tabucchi’s scoperta is that storytelling simultaneously solicits and 
refuses interpretation, not simply in respect of an over-arching genre of 
autobiography, but in each of his three sets of traditional terms: storytelling 
subjectivity is haunted by stories foisted on it, some unaccountably (unless 
by reference to psychoanalysis) and some by others similarly haunted, as 
well as by its own and others’ mortality.?° 


IV. “Il gioco” begins in bereavement, and ends in a semblance of closure 
found in a dream, with symmetrically-placed references to Las Meninas: in 
chapter 1, the narrator looks at Velazquez’s painting in Madrid while Maria 
lies dying in Lisbon (asserting this simultaneity in hindsight or denial, after 
the events triggered by her husband’s call that afternoon). The references to 
Velazquez have been understood as introducing another, to Foucault’s es- 
say on his painting, from which it is possible Tabucchi (or Maria?) has bor- 
rowed the first half of her enigmatic remark on a previous occasion, that “la 
chiave del quadro sta nella figura di fondo, é un gioco del rovescio” (11).! 
The story responds to this in twelve chapters whose disjunctive and con- 
junctive relations rehearse a technique evocative of cinema, although this 
connotation demands correlation with that of the telephone. More than 
naturalizing a visual image, they together de-naturalize voices, their ellipses, 
and their sudden (re-)emergence at the beginnings of chapters: the prosthe- 


20. Meravigia, in the preface’s sense, is a Aapax in Tabucchi, but payra undergoes a complex 
modulation, as a chain of overlapping terms in a series of works extending back into the 
1970s and forwards into the 1990s, regularly arising from melancholy, otherwise narcissistic, 
remorseful or guilty scenanos of Oedipal mourning re-enacted, and issuing in literary or 
narrative expression. This operation binds all Tabucchi’s novels to 1994, and all the associ- 
ated collections of stories, to questions of mimesis and the uncanny, va “fantasmi’ (on which 
see especially I volatili del Beato Angehco 53). 


21. See Foucault, The Order of Things 3-16, especially 10-11, Lepschy 203, and Palmieri, “An- 
tonio Tabucchi’s Iconic Temptations” 129; the Feltens attempt to minimize the significance 
of the crucial psychoanalytic reference. 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 211 


sis of voices and the spectrality of persons, in life as in death, are at issue. 
The effect is thematized in chapters 9-11, where it emerges that the narra- 
tor’s first contact with Maria, decisively for both, was likewise by telephone, 
and scripted. Not even Maria’s first physical appearance is described: in- 
stead the narrator reports her describing it in advance, and the yellow dress 
she mentioned repeatedly re-appears in his fantasies and dreams (19, 22, 
24). These erotic and prosthetic qualities of voices locate “I] gioco” be- 
tween Lacanian psychoanalysis and deconstruction;?? proclaimed at the be- 
ginning of both story and telling, this might appositely divert attention from 
questions of allusion to Foucault.” 

Chapter 1 moves from the Prado, via the hotel where the narrator takes 
the call, to the Lisbon train; 3, 5, and 7 narrate his journey, and conversa- 
tions with a Spaniard sharing his compartment, chiefly concerning Portu- 
guese and Spanish culture. These alternate with related subject matter as 
the narrator — in 2, 4, and 6 — remembers it shaped by Maria, partly on the 
basis of reading Pessoa, and developing the enigma of the g/oco de/ rovesczo. 
This alternation is then complicated by two pairs of chapters, concerning 
the story’s beginnings, and its (anti-)climax: 8 recounts the origins, in Italy, 
of a conspiracy to smuggle money into Portugal for families of imprisoned 
opponents of the pre-1974 dictatorship, during which the narrator was first 
to meet Maria, and 9 their telephone conversation arranging this. Chapters 
10 and 11 relate his preparations to visit her husband the day after hearing 
of her death, and their interview, including some further negotiation of the 
gioco and its sense; in 12, at his Lisbon hotel, the narrator draws waking then 
dreaming conclusions, before entering another, unspecified, dream. The 
story’s alternating rhythm is that of mourning, introduced by the narrator's 
remark at the end of chapter 1 that his journey would give him “molte ore 
per pensare a Maria” (12), while past memories inform present (mis)re- 


22. Lacan counts the voice among the ungraspable objects of desire: see “The Subversion of 
the Subject and the Dialectic of Desire in the Freudian Unconscious,” in Earits 292-325, and 
on the object generally, The Four Fundamental Concepts of Psycho-analysis, for commentary, 
Bowie 163-78. For Derrida on the voice, Of Grammatology and Monolingualism of the Other. 


23. The allusion (if such it is) remains difficult, partly because Foucault’s essay is, and partly 
because of its awkwardness relative to its context in The Order of Things. the editors of the Dits 
et éerits preface an earlier version by remarking that Foucault “semble avoir hésité” before 
including it in the book (I; 464); compare Macey 164 and Miller 158. Yet read for their gen- 
eral architecture, all Foucault’s major books suggest contexts for a critical encounter with 
psychoanalysis: it is therefore pertinent that Belsey finds the essay “unexpectedly Lacanian, 
treating power itself as an object of desire” (51); for a general study of Foucault, see Derrida, 
Resistances 70-118. On the intellectual and journalistic histories of relations between Derrida 
and Foucault, see Macey, and Miller; the canonical Italian over-interpretation, dogmatically 
contra Derrida especially, is Ginzburg xv-xvii; on the issues: Fenves, “Derrida and history,” in 
Cohen 271-95, Readings, especially 58-62, and Royle 13-38. 


212 JONATHAN SMITH 


cognitions: these modulate into a specular confrontation cross-referencing 
Garibaldo’s with Melchiorre, Sesto pére’s with Zanardelli, and that between 
Sesto fi/s and Socrate, but spared their drastic outcomes. 

In chapter 2 the narrator recalls a conversation during which 


negli occhi di Maria do Carmo c’era una grande malinconia. Forse sei 
troppo giovane per capire, alla tua eta io non avrei capito, non avrei im- 
maginato che la vita fosse come un gioco che giocavo nella mia infanzia a 
Buenos Aires, Pessoa é un genio perché ha capito il risvolto delle cose, del 
reale e dell’immaginato, la sua poesia € un juego de/ revés. (13) 


The chapter ends here, extending the enigma to embrace Pessoa as well as 
Velazquez, but translating it back into Spanish, for reasons as yet obscure, 
but exceeding the banal explanation that Maria first heard the phrase in Ar- 
gentina. Pessoa was introduced at the beginning of the chapter, marked by 
a jagged flashback to an initial thematization of melancholy: “La Saudade, 
diceva Maria do Carmo, non é una parola, é una categoria dello spirito, solo 
i portoghesi riescono a sentirla, perché hanno questa parola per dire che ce 
Phanno, lo ha detto un grande poeta” (12); then she leads the narrator be- 
tween the haunts of one heteronym and another, before launching into her 
childhood reminiscences. 

Although we cannot know it yet, the narrator’s first call — purporting 
to advise her of a new translation of Pessoa — was the signal by which Mania 
recognized him as her conspiratorial contact: Pessoa is a pivot of the story. 
Yet despite Maria’s enthusiasm, and seductive as some readers have found 
it (Jansen), especially in combination with her conspiratorial charisma 
(Hudde), her claim about saudade is one for a plenitude of identity in the 
Portuguese language and nation Tabucchi’s criticism has Pessoa contest, 
and that the story’s strategies of indirection and mediation (including trans- 
lation of all its dialogues into Italian) exclude. Neither saudade nor the 
rovesctio are thematic terms in the criticism: “rovescio” is a hapax marking a 
rhetorical climax, but explicable only by reference to the range of meanings 
it acquires in this story, and when saudade features, it is a slogan of a nation- 
alism Pessoa initially satirizes (“Interpretazione” 162), and from which he 
remains distanced thereafter (Un bau 19). Nor does it play a major part in 
the emotional lexicon developed by the fiction around Melchiorre’s fearful 
disposition and the meravigha and paura of the 1988 preface: the inaugural 
story’s situation and problematic are inserted into Italian and French set- 
tings in two stories from Piccoh equivod without reference to Pessoa or Por- 
tugal, neither of which make the characters of “Il gioco” any more articulate 
than those of “Piccoli equivoci” and “Rebus” (9-18; 29-46). Indeed, 
“rovescio” initially names a set of problems Maria struggled to articulate, 
but unsuccessfully, whereas the story presupposes conceptual resources 
exceeding those of the criticism as well as its heroine’s: Maria’s Pessoa 1s 
not Tabucchi’s. Given the psychoanalytic themes of the novels and criti- 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 213 


cism, the story suggests compulsive narcissistic identifications: Maria’s mel- 
ancholy is one index (Mourning and Melancholia), her patriotism another 
(Group Psychology). 

Chapter 4 reverts to Maria’s recollections in 2 of her “infanzia bo- 
nairense di figlia di esiliati”: 


ci mettevamo in cerchio, quattro o cinque bambini, facevamo la conta, a 
chi toccava andava in mezzo, lui sceglieva uno a piacere e gli lanciava una 
parola, una qualsiasi, per esempio mariposa, e quello doveva pronunciarla 
subito a rovescio, ma senza pensarci sopra, perché l’altro contava uno due 
tre quattro cinque, e a cinque aveva vinto, ma se tu ruscivi a dire in tempo 
asopiram, allora eri tu il re del gioco, andavi in mezzo al cerchio e lanciavi la 
tua parola a chi volevi tu. (14) 


This is positioned as a solution to hermeneutic problems posed by the story 
(since chapter 1), and its title. The puerile dramatis personae evoke Freud’s 

conception of childhood play as prototype of the theatrics, central to his 
writings on art, that inform critical moments in his thinking more gen- 
erally,24 but the anecdote concerns an organization of the signifier prior to 
self-consciousness or communication between consciousnesses, drama- 
tizing Lacan’s conceptualization of inter-subjectivity as a structure of cons- 
titutive mutual misrecognitions: whereas a sign represents something for a 
subject (and this accounts for effects of communication), a signifier repre- 
sents a subject for another signifier. Rabaté (more nearly a Lacanian 
thinker than dogmatically anti-Lacanian) considers this “cryptic” (41), but it 
might equally be glossed as an example of Lacan’s fragmentary “glimpses of 
what a fully intelligible and transmissible psychoanalytic theory might be 
like,” offered in “rehearsal for the moment when a fully-fledged logic of 
intersubjective communication might become possible” (Bowie 3-4). Dis- 
missal or evasion would discount a key to the story (and the fiction gener- 
ally) as important as the question of nationality posed by “Interpretazione”: 
although it stands proposed that Tabucchi be read in terms of dialogism 
“defined as the presence of the writer and the reader in the text” (Spunta 
111), he repeatedly stages the more puzzling but more rewarding issue of 


24. The Joa classic’ are “Creative Writers” 131-36 and Beyond the Pleasure Prinaple 283-87, with 
The Interpretation of Dreams 362-68; but see too “Psychopathic Characters on Stage,” and “The 
Theme of the Three Caskets” (Art and Literature 119-28, and 233-48). 


25. Like many of Lacan’s challenges, this one appears repeatedly, in different phrasings: for a 
canonical formulation dating from the early 1960s (and therefore from the end of a ten-year 
period during which he developed many trade-mark linguistic arguments), see The Four Fun- 
damental Concepts 207. For exegesis, Easthope 40-44, and Hill 25-34; the earlier Seminar II ts 
helpfully excerpted in Blonsky’s remarkable anthology (203-209). 


214 JONATHAN SMITH 


textuality’s presences (and absences) in all and sundry: writer, readers, and 
characters. This is the problem haunting both 1975 essay and 1988 preface. 

Despite Maria’s correlation of her own sensibility and Portuguese iden- 
tity with verbal language, the story inventories the Symbolic far more exten- 
sively, as visual representation; as land-, river-, and seascape; as domestic 
and commercial interior as well as exterior built environments in three capi- 
tal cities; as Spanish and Italian as well as Portuguese gastronomy; as tech- 
nologies of communication and transport; as narrative as well as poetic lit- 
erary (and cinematic) genres; as practices of musical performance and sport; 
as material culture including clothing, furniture and décor, as the behavioural 
repertoires of members of the Portuguese petty aristocracy, hotel staff, 
barmen, one (or two?) discreetly reserved domestics, the narrator, a Portu- 
guese policeman, the Spaniard, and conspiratorial contacts in Rome; and as 
the experience of sexed embodiment. This is the organization of the signi- 
fier envisaged when “Interpretazione” reads O Marinheiro as an allegory of 
Pessoa’s own predicament. Since the story’s Argentine location motivates 
the re-specification of the groco de/ rovescio introduced in Italian in chapter 1, 
in Spanish as the juego de/ reves in 2 and 4 (rather than in Portuguese), the 
significance of the “cryptic” Lacanian maxim is that terms of propriety can- 
not even be found in the (national, sexual) other to whom the emblematic 
anecdote is delegated. Where Maria naturalizes her melancholy as a na- 
tional destiny of saudade, but resorts to a foreign phrase in doing so, the 
story finds a spectrality preceding her death. 

The game’s repeated installation and de-throning of a king, according 
to a mechanism exterior to consciousness, clarifies the reference to 
Velazquez. Las Meninas shows a mirror, itself showing King Philip IV of 
Spain (with his wife Mariana) in what appears to be the position of the 
painting’s viewer (towards which other figures, including the painter as he 
portrays himself preparing to paint, also look). The narrator can have seen 
nothing in the mirror but an image of supremacy, combined with a sem- 
blance of legally sanctioned sexual complementarity and frozen into immo- 
bility: this stages the Imaginary, narcissistic identifications of Lacan’s stade du 
miroir as fantasy effects of the Symbolic. Yet by contrast, the story’s narra- 
tive movement repeatedly brings to light the Symbolic conditions of Imagi- 
nary effects, questioning their hermetic differentiation. This question is also 
posed by Derrida in Reststances, albeit largely on the basis of Positions and The 
Post Card, where it already appeared (460); he now suggests too that Lacan’s 
doctrine depends on a surreptitious idealism, decipherable as such “only on 
the basis of work [...] in a deconstructive mode, [...] as concerns the consti- 
tution of idealities” (Reséstances 59-60). That enquiry was also the context of 
Derrida’s extrication of the “literary object” (with the assistance of “The 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 215 


‘Uncanny’ ”) from a tradition of overt, covert, and inadvertent conceptuali- 
zations:26 this is the direction in which the story and its title point, in them- 
selves and in virtue of their relation with the early novels. 

The story now thematizes the narrator’s narcissism. In chapter 4, 
memories of refugee poverty motivate Maria’s declaration of binding grati- 
tude for her husband’s rescuing her from it, as she leads the narrator to- 
wards the traditional tavern where their traditional dinner, in 6, is accompa- 
nied by traditional music. Then, disconsolate in her Portuguese destiny, 
“diceva, andiamo via, saudade si ma a basse dosi,” before reciting a poem 
where Alvaro de Campos struggles with the subjective experience and ob- 
jective concept of time, “una persona é alla stessa finestra della sua infanzia, 
ma non é pit la stessa persona e non é pit la stessa finestra” (16), and evok- 
ing the rovescio again: “mi diceva [...] viviamo questa vita come se fosse un 
revés, per esempio stanotte, tu devi pensare che sei me che stai stringendo 
te fra le tue braccia, io penso di essere te che sto stringendo me fra le mie 
braccia” (17). The chapter, like 2 and 4, ends abruptly, although the story is 
this time not resumed at the same point, but in 1, whose events are the next 
after these to be reported. However, Maria’s musings are significant less for 
creating uncertainty as to bodily actions before or after the event, than for 
re-echoing in the narrator’s relation to time, space, place, and desire during 
his interview with Maria’s widowed husband. A ship’s siren carries him into 
a past where he has still to meet Maria: “sapevo gia tutto questo, ma quel 
passeggero che ero io e che guardava Lisbona dal parapetto della nave non 
lo sapeva ancora e tutto sarebbe stato per lui nuovo e identico. E questa 
era Saudade, Maria do Carmo aveva ragione, non era una parola ma una 
categoria dello spirito. A suo modo, anch’essa, era un rovescio” (22-23). 
Yet this contradicts Maria’s claim in chapter 2, that only a Portuguese can 
feel saudade: this is the narrator’s own clinching moment of narcissistic iden- 
tification, although the entire story is in that key, beginning with a quixotic 
political commitment, and deviating into an erotic one that idealizes its ob- 
ject (but also its subject) increasingly as the story proceeds. 

The evening recollected in chapters 2, 4, and 6 alternates with the jour- 
ney to Lisbon in 3, 5, and 7. In 3, the rovescio figures the narrator’s inward 
and outward dislocations as he travels through the night for Maria’s funeral, 
but to be excluded from it as, retroactively, from much else: “provavo una 
sensazione strana, come se dall’alto stessi a guardare un altro me stesso che 
[...] stesse entrando in un paese straniero per andare a vedere una donna che 
conosceva bene e che era morta. Era una sensazione che non avevo mai 
provato e mi venne da pensare che aveva qualcosa a che fare col rovescio” 
(14). Already, however, the Italian expert on Portuguese poetry has been 
confronted by a more earthily sceptical Portuguese policeman: 


26. See “The time of a thesis: punctuations” 37, and the material cited in note 18. 


216 JONATHAN SMITH 


viene spesso nel nostro paese, disse, cosa ci trova di tanto interessante? 
La poesia barocca, risposi. Come dice?, mormoro. Una signora, dissi io, 
una signora con un nome bizzarro, Violante do Céu. E’ bella?, chiese lui 
con malizia. Forse, dissi io, € morta da tre secoli ed é sempre vissuta in 
convento, era una monaca. Lui scosse il capo e si liscio i baffi con aria 
sormiona, mi mise il visto e mi porse il passaporto. Voi italiani amate 
sempre scherzare, disse, le piace Toto? (13) 


Notwithstanding Italians’ allegedly humorous disposition, the narrator over 
breakfast defends saudade against the Spaniard’s sa/ero, although the defence 
modulates into interrogation of the Spaniard’s bluff eudaemonism (but by 
implication of imputed Italian characteristics too). This bears on time and 
space (figured in landscape), language and desire (figured in literature), em- 
bodiment and mortality: “la vita é una sola, disse, bisogna saperla vivere 
caro signore. Non gli chiesi come faceva nel suo caso, e parlammo d’altro, 
di sport mi pare” (15). Climactically, the conversation touches on the 
bloodless Portuguese bullfight: “é piu elegante, dissi io, per ammazzare 
qualcuno non sempre é necessario ucciderlo, a volte basta un gesto. Mac- 
ché, disse lui [...] € una pantomima ridicola. Ma tutte le cerimonie sono una 
stilizzazione, obiettai, questa [...] mi sembra pit nobile” (17). Despite the 
narrator’s susceptibilities to Maria, Portugal, its culture, and her memory, 
none of them are unambiguously hospitable. 

Uneasy expectation is accentuated, as chapters 8-10 flash back to the 
Roman antecedents of the first encounter with Maria, and its last-minute 
preparation, then forward to Lisbon, and an uninformative domestic’s tem- 
porizing. Eventually, at their (anti-)climactic meeting, the narrator is taunted 
by Maria’s husband with his ignorance of her alleged sickness, refused sight 
of her body, asked not to attend the funeral, and wonders at being sum- 
moned from Madrid. Then Meneses de Sequeira lunges: “era troppo piu 
giovane di Maria do Carmo. E lei troppo piu vecchio, avrei voluto dire, ma 
tacqui. Si occupa di filologia, ah ah, fece una risatina: la sua vita sono le 
biblioteche, lei non poteva capire una donna cosi” (21). When the narrator 
queries this: “Vorrei toglierle unillusione, disse, quella di aver conosciuto 
Maria do Carmo, lei ha conosciuto solo una finzione” (ébid.), before denying 
Maria’s return from exile and poverty, to marry him. He exacerbates this by 
dismissing a story of their meeting in New York, rather than her own, that 
they met in Argentina, before alleging she was a rich heiress whose bond 
with him was their shared patriotism (which is consistent with what we 
know of her understanding of Pessoa, relative to Tabucchi’s). On the narra- 
tor’s questioning patriotism itself, he changes tack: 


a Maria do Carmo piaceva molto un gioco, lo ha giocato per tutta la vita, 
lo abbiamo sempre giocato di comune accordo. Feci un cenno della 
mano, come per impedirgli di continuare, ma lui seguitd: lei deve essere 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS QI7 


capitato in un suo rovescio. Una pendola, in una stanza lontana, suono. 
A meno che non sia capitato lei in un rovescio del suo rovescio, diss1. 
Nuno Meneses de Sequeira sorrise ancora, che bello, disse, potrebbe pro- 
prio essere una frase di Maria do Carmo, é legittimo che lei pensi a questa 
ipotesi, anche se é una presunzione, mi creda. (22) 


Not only; she regularly received Pessoa translations from abroad, as if to 
say her infiltration of the opposition brought her many lovers. Then, as 
though sharing in the narrator’s interpretation of the Portuguese bullfight: 
“Ja realta é sgradevole e lei preferisce 1 sogni, la prego non mi obblighi a1 
dettagli, i dettagli sono sempre cosi volgari, limitiamoci al concetto” (¢bid.). 
As throughout, the narrator’s blankness seems to fulfil this estimate of 
his character. Now he hears the ship’s siren, and succumbs to his momen- 
tary saudade, before posturing as bizarrely as ever Maria did: “Oggi é il 
primo giorno della nuova vita di Maria do Carmo, dissi, potrebbe almeno 
concederle una tregua” (23). His interlocutor delivers a letter, allegedly 
from Maria, and the two part with veiled insults. Any quasi-Dantesque ex- 
ectation of mystical communication is disappointed: the letter’s single 
word, “SEVER”, reverses palindromically to link the Spanish term for 
rovescio with the French one for the dreams Meneses de Sequeira despises. 
The questions the story poses are displaced into another, whether these 
meanings are “assolutamente diversi” (¢bid.), as the narrator initially sup- 
poses, or whether they coincide, as he recalls thinking while subsiding into a 
dream where he reverts to the fantasy of meeting Maria again but for the 
first time, in her yellow dress. The outlines of the dockside where he dis- 
embarks converge on a point that is not — initially — geometrical: 


Forse Maria do Carmo aveva finalmente raggiunto il suo rovescio. Le au- 
gurai che fosse come lo aveva desiderato e pensai che la parola spagnola e 
quella francese forse coincidevano in un punto. Mi parve che esso fosse il 
punto di fuga di una prospettiva, come quando si tracciano le linee 
prospettiche di un quadro, e in quel momento la sirena fischio un/altra 
volta, la nave attraccO, io scesi lentamente dalla passerella e cominciai a 
seguire i moli, il porto era completamente deserto, i moli erano le linee 
prospettiche di un quadro, il quadro era Las Meninas. (24) 


The painting congeals into view, with Maria replacing the figure she once 
said was its key, as if ready to answer the narrator’s question: “tu vedi il 
rovescio del quadro, che cosa si vede da codesta parte?” (zbid.). 

The slide from verbalization to visual images incongruously condensed, 
punning on “punto,” suggests oneirically wishful simplification. Meneses 
de Sequeira’s denial that he met Maria in New York, rather than Buenos 
Aires (and his ignorance of the phrasing of the gzoco de/ rovescio in Spanish), 
simultaneously indicate misunderstanding of the implication that a finzione is 
the most that could be known of anyone, and claim Maria’s elementary bad 
faith. Yet although her secret is impenetrable (and by contrast with Sesto’s 


218 JONATHAN SMITH 


dramatic grief), the narrator seems convinced of sharing an interpretation of 
the rovesco with her: the dialogue concluding in delivery of the letter is one 
between two blind men. This situation’s visibility depends on the hodoe- 
poric motif’s carrying the narrator into one alien and alienating space from 
another. After reading the letter, he books a direct flight home, but re- 
affirmation of Italian identity is not in prospect: the single chapter set in 
Italy is the one where he was advised of the password that ensnared him in 
identification with a finzione. No domestic space of propriety is available: 
only a milieu of difference narcissism struggles to master. 


V. The story fictionalizes a framing context for Piazza dTiaka, and a source 
for a complex of motifs including the palindrome and the rvescio, supple- 
mented by the pawra re-interpreted in the 1988 preface but effectively muf- 
fled by the story’s narrator. In the novel, all this is projected back into a 
palpably fantastic genealogy of the confrontation between Melchiorre and 
Garibaldo: as a child, their uncle Volturno “cresceva nell’immobilita e nel 
silenzio, come se conoscesse I’altra parte dei gesti” (22), and by contrast 
with his inseparable twin Quarto’s exuberance, he speaks his first words to 
express “paura di tutto” (23). Well before the twins’ attachment modulates 
into sexual rivalry, Volturno begins foretelling the future, reversing his sib- 
lings’ names palindromically (Otraug, Odlabirag, Atina), and telling stories 
from the end, sometimes in voluminous, melancholy writing (25-27). 
Garibaldo senior shares Quarto’s temperament (24), and is a model for 
Garibaldo junior’s combative but doomed response to something they 
(mis)understand as social alienation; Atina shares Voltumo’s, transmitting it 
to her son Melchiorre, albeit modified by his paternal grandfather’s influ- 
ence: the line of descent metaphorizes cultural transmission, which culmi- 
nates in Garibaldo’s unhappy career as a cantastorie influenced by Dante as 
Melchiorre is by Vergal (58; 131-3). Heredity and heritage alike are arrested 
in the sons’ generation, by a crisis requiring delineation from another 
standpoint, figured in “Tl gioco” as a hodoeporic one. 

Tabucchi seems rather to overtake than follow Derrida. The 1988 
preface’s claim for an idiomatic scoperta modulates the resonance with Dzs- 
seminalion On mimesis towards the singular znventons of the other in texts from 
the mid-1970s and 1980s. Correspondingly, the presentation of Italian his- 
tory in Prazea d'Itaka already stages the invention of something more fantas- 
tic than the novel’s title can announce, even when supplemented by the 
1993 subtitle “favola popolare in tre tempi, un epilogo, e un’appendice” (7). 
This 1s invention in a double sense akin to that of “Invention of the Other” 
(Acts of Leterature 310-43), applying given principles (of psychoanalysis) and 
conventions of discursive and literary genre (already subjected to a complex 
displacement by the subtitle’s allusions to the cinema and to oral storytelling 
as well as to the physical structure of the book), but to the point where they 
lapse, to allow another outcome than you could expect. The resonance is 
now with Derrida’s conception of responsibility for testing the range, con- 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 219 


ditions, and limits of what can be written, beyond answerability to whatever 
imperatives might impose themselves in the name of truthfulness, a faith, or 
a politics: literary practice escapes them, not by appealing to competing 
ones, and not as a matter of choice, but absolutely, in virtue of an impene- 
trable secret inherent in language’s potential for fiction.?’ 

Later stories of mourning re-enacted, in Requiem and “Voci portate da 
qualcosa” (L’angelo nero 11-28), indicate another narrative response than 
Sesto’s, or Piayza dTtala as re-interpreted by “Il gioco”: a novel written in a 
hodoeporic context of Portuguese exile, perhaps unfinished and largely des- 
troyed unpublished, but identifiable insofar as it survived with “Capo- 
danno” (107-52).28 A preliminary version appeared in 1978 as “Lettere a 
Capitano Nemo,” “capitoli scelti dal romanzo Lettere a Capitano Nemo,” 
nominally “di prossima pubblicazione” (14), but never actually published: 
Tabucchi has enacted as well as telling it the story of literary production 
frustrated that is told in a series of calculatedly divergent versions, also in- 
cluding the “Storia di una storia che non c’é” (I volatili del Beato Angelico 58- 
61). “Capodanno” itself is at once the last story in the cycle re-working the 
circumstances of Sesto’s childhood, and that of a vocation for terrorism, 
without adult sequel but resonating with works concerning the history of 
the 1970s and after.2? The story repeatedly re-told but also enacted maps 
and questions the social and psychological conditions and limits of what 
can be written (and published) in the context of Italian society, and about 
that society’s history, during Tabucchi’s lifetime, since 1943; so much so, 
Requiem was written and first published in Portuguese. Piazza d'taka, as re- 
contextualized in “Il gioco,” already rehearses this. 

Although Reguiem and L’angelo nero ate roughly contemporaneous with 
“Passions,” published in 1992 (On the Name 2), Piazza d'Itaha and “Il gioco” 
date from before 1981: chronologically, Tabucchi’s practice leads Derrida’s 
“theory.” On Derrida’s account, literary practice resorts to historical possi- 
bilities of de-stabilizing historical states and practices of language, among 
which psychoanalysis offers powerful resources of re-stabilization: he privi- 
leges “The ‘Uncanny’ ” strategically, in recognition of this, to exploit re- 
sources of difference internal to psychoanalysis. Tabucchi de-stabilizes the 


27. In addition to the material noted in 18, see “Passions,” in On the Name 3-31. Insofar as 
Derrida’s differences with tradition are negotiated in response to Levinas, this 
(con)textualization of Tabucchi’s fiction sanctions recent suggestions that it be read in a 
religious key (Klopp), provided these are understood heterologically rather than doctrinally; 
for Lévinas, see “Violence and Metaphysics” (Writing and Difference 79-153), Bennington, 
“Deconstruction and ethics,” in Interrupting Derrida 34-46, de Vries “Derrida and ethics: hos- 
pitable thought,” in Cohen 172-92, and Cntchley; on religion, Ads of Region. 


28. In addition to the material cited in this paragraph, see the preface to L ‘angelo nero (9-10). 
29. Compare note 14. 


220 JONATHAN SMITH 


psychoanalytic purchase on literature by first affirming it in a work (Piazza 
d'Italia) itself retro-actively de-stabilized by being enframed in another (“Il 
gioco”) whose uncanny resonances with I/ piccolo navigho in turn exempt his 
project from reduction by psychoanalysis to passively autobiographical 
symptom, arming it for subsequent engagements with dominant discourses 
of personal and national identity. 


Swansea University 
Works Cited 


Barzilai, Shuli. Lacan and the Matter of Origins. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1999. 
Belsey, Catherine. “Making Space: Perspective Vision and the Lacanian Real.” Tex- 
tual Practice 16, 1 (2002): 31-55. 
Bennington, Geoffrey. Interrupting Derrida. London: Routledge, 2000. 
Blonsky, Marshall. On Signs. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1985. 
Bowie, Malcolm. Lacan. London: Fontana, 1991. 
Cannon, JoAnn. “Requiem and the poetics of Antonio Tabucchi.” Forum Italicum 
35, 1 (2001): 100-109. 
Clark, Timothy. Derrida, Heidegger, Blanchot. Cambridge: Cambndge UP, 1992. 
Cohen, Tom. Jacques Derrida and the Humanities: a Critical Reader. Cambridge: Cam- 
bridge UP, 2001. 
Critchley, Simon. The Ethics of Deconstruction. Edinburgh: Edinburgh UP, 1999. 
Derrida, Jacques. Acts of Literature. London: Routledge, 1992. 
. Aats of Religion. London: Routledge, 2002. 
. Archive Fever. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1996. 
. Dissemination. London: Athlone Press, 1981. 
. Of Grammatology. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1976. 
. Monokngualism of the Other. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1998. 
. On the Name. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1995. 
. Positions. London: Athlone Press, 1987. 
. The Post Card: from Socrates to Freud and Beyond. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 
1987. 
. Resistances of Psychoanalysis. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1998. 
. Specters of Marx: the State of the Debt, The Work of Mourning, ¢ the New In- 
ternational. London: Routledge, 1994. 
. “The time of a thesis: punctuations.” Philosophy in France Today, ed. Alan 
Montefiore. Cambndge: Cambridge UP, 1983. 34-50. 
. Writing and Difference. London: Routledge, 1978. 
Easthope, Antony. The Unconscious. London: Routledge, 1999. 
Ellman, Maud. Psychoanalytic Literary Criticism. London: Longman, 1994. 
Felman, Shoshana. Literature and Psychoanalysis. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1982. 
Felten, Hans and Uta Felten. “ “Traumspiel’ mit Texten: zu Antonio Tabucchis 
Erzahlung I/ gioco del rovescio (1981).” Itakenisch 27 (1992): 58-69. 
Foucault, Michel. Dits et écrits. Paris: Gallimard, 1994. 


PSYCHOANALYSIS, DECONSTRUCTION, HODOEPORICS 224 


. The Order of Things. London: Tavistock, 1970. 
Francese, Joseph. “L’eteronimia di Antonio Tabucchi.” Stanford Italian Review 11, 
1-2 (1992): 123-38. 
Freud, Sigmund. Art and Literature. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1985. 
. Civikzation, Soaety and Rehgion. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1985. 
. The Interpretation of Dreams. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1976. 
. Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1973. 
. Jokes and Their Relation to the Unconscious. Harmondworth: Penguin, 1976. 
. On Metapsychology. Harmonsdworth: Penguin, 1984. 
Ginzburg, Carlo. I/ formaggio e i vermi: il cosmo di un mugnaio del 500. Torino: Einaudi, 
1976. 
Greco, Lorenzo. “TI giochi del rovescio di Antonio Tabucchi.” Forum Itakcum 33, 1 
(1999): 225-37. 
Hill, Philip. Lacan. London: Wnters and Readers, 1997. 
Hudde, Heinrich. “Blicke auf Las Meninas.” Romanistische Zeitschnift fur Litera- 
turgeschichte 22, 1-2 (1997): 179-204. 
Jansen, Monica. “Tabucchi: molteplicita e rovescio,” Piccole finzioni con importanza, 
ed. N. Roelens and I. Lanslots. Ravenna: Longo, 1993.137-46 
Klopp, Charles. “Antonio Tabucchi: Postmodern Catholic Wnter,” World Literature 
Today 71,2. 331-34. 
. “The Return of the Spiritual, with a Note on the Fiction of Bufalino, 
Tabucchi, and Celati.”, Annal dTtahanistica 19 (2001): 93-102. 
Knisteva, Julia. Black Sun: Depression and Melanchoha. New York: Columbia UP, 1989. 
Lacan, Jacques. crits: a selection. London: Tavistock, 1977. 
. The Ego in Freud’s Theory and in the Technique of Psychoanalysis (Seminar II: 
1954-55). New York: Norton, 1988. 
. The Four Fundamental Concepts of Psycho-analysis (Seminar XI: 1964). Har- 
mondsworth: Penguin, 1977. 
. The Psychoses (Seminar III: 1955-56). London: Routledge, 1993. 
Laplanche, Jean and Jean-Baptiste Pontalis, The Language of Psychoanalysis. London: 
Hogarth, 1973. 
Lepschy, Anna Laura. “Antonio Tabucchi: Splinters of Existence.” The New Itakan 
Novel, ed. Z. Baranski and L. Pertile. Edinburgh: Edinburgh UP, 1993. 200- 
18. 
Lyotard, Jean-Francois. “Jewish Oedipus.” Toward the Postmodern. 27-40. 
. Peregrinations: Law, Form, Event. New York: Columbia UP, 1988. 
. “The Psychoanalytic Approach to Artistic and Literary Expression.” 
Toward the Postmodern. 2-11. 
. Toward the Postmodern, ed. Robert Harvey and Mark S. Roberts. New 
Jersey: Humanities Press, 1993. 
Macey, David. The Lives of Michel Foucault. London: Vintage, 1993. 
Miller, James. The Passion of Michel Foucault. London: HarperCollins, 1993. 
Palmien, Giovanni. “Antonio Tabucchi’s Iconic Temptations.” Spunti e ricerche 12 
(1996/97): 125-42. 


222 JONATHAN SMITH 


. “Per una volatile leggerezza: il lato manco’ di Antonio Tabucchi.” 
Piccole finzioni con importanza, ed. N. Roelens and I. Lanslots. Ravenna: Longo, 
1993: 125-36. 
Pessoa, Fernando. Fernando Pessoa ¢” Co.: Selected Poems, trans. Richard Zenith. 
New York: Grove Press, 1998. 
Rabaté, Jean-Michel. The Future of Theory. Oxford: Blackwell, 2002. 
Readings, Bill. Introducing Lyotard: Art and Poktics. London: Routledge, 1991. 
Ricoeur, Paul. Fread and Philosophy: an Essay on Interpretation. New Haven: Yale UP, 
1970. 
Royle, Nicholas. After Derrida. Manchester: Manchester UP, 1995. 
Smith, Jonathan. “Tabucchi Echoes Lacan: Making an End of ‘Postmodernism’ 
from the Beginning.” Asnak dTtahanistica 18 (2000): 77-108. 
Spunta, Marina. “ “‘Dialoghi mancat’: Uses of Silence, Reticence and Ellipsis in the 
Fiction of Antonio Tabucchi.” Qvaderni dTtahanistica 19, 2 (1998):101-13 
Tabucchi, Antonio. L ‘angel nero. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1991 
. Un baule pieno di gente. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1990. 
. IL filo delorizzonte. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1986. 
. La gastrite di Platone. Palermo: Sellerio, 1997. 
. I/ gioco del rovescio. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1988 (first ed. Il Saggiatore, 1981). 
. “Interpretazione dell’eteronimia di Fernando Pessoa.” Studi mediolatini e 
volgari XXIII (1975): 139-87. 
. “Lettere a Capitano Nemo.” Paragone 342 (1978): 14-25. 
. Notturno indiano. Palermo: Sellenio, 1984 
. Le Petit navire. Panis: Christian Bourgeois, 1999. 
. Piazza dTtaka: favola popolare in tre tempi, un epilogo e un’appendice. Milano: 
Feltrinelli, 1993 (first ed. Bompiani, 1975). 
. Piccoh equivod senza importanza. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1985. 
. Il piccolo navigho. Milano: Mondadon, 1978. 
. Requiem: un‘allucinazione. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1992 
. Sogni di sogni. Palermo: Sellerio, 1992. 
. | volatiht del Beato Angekico. Palermo: Sellerio, 1987 
Volosinov, Valentin. Freudismo. Bari: Dedalo Libn, 1977. 


CARLA MARCATO 





Aspetti linguistici dell’odeporica 
cinquecentesca 


carattere odeporico del Cinquecento occupano un posto di primo 
piano, per gli aspetti linguistici, le relazioni e le descrizioni di terre 
incognite, documentazioni di quelle scoperte geografiche che allargano 
lorizzonte con la conseguente conoscenza di nuove Worter und Sachen che 
non mancano di riflettersi sulla lingua: “mutamenti linguistici [che] sono 
i primissimi segni dell’allargarsi della coscienza del mondo” (Folena 100). 
La letteratura del viaggio del Cinquecento, osserva Ilaria Luzzana 
Caraci, “é stata piuttosto trascurata in passato. Solo da pochi decenni, sotto 
lo stimolo di interessi linguistici piu che storici o filologici, ha avuto inizio 
uno studio pit approfondito” (ix). E in effetti ora disponiamo di raccolte 
di testi e di indagini su singoli autori che non mancano di segnalare e di 
commentare, a vari livelli, elementi di interesse sul piano della lingua.' Il 
dato linguistico pit rilevante e appariscente nella letteratura odeporica del 
Cinquecento é certo costituito dagli apporti lessicali che si addensano 
proprio nel periodo indicato, come non manca di sottolineare Bruno 
Migliorini: “L’aprirsi dell’era delle grandi scoperte ha conseguenze 
importanti per la lingua: anzitutto per l’importazione, o almeno per la 
conoscenza di animali e di piante prima ignoti, che fa entrare nel lessico 
nuovi nomi, o attinti alle lingue indigene, o coniati nelle lingue dei popoli 
esploratori, o foggiati in Italia”.” * Oltre allingresso di nuove designazioni, 
si diffondono termini marinareschi di varia provenienza che mostrano come 
il polo della navigazione e del commercio marittimo si sia spostato dal 
Mediterraneo centrale verso I'Atlantico, ovvero dall’Italia verso la penisola 
iberica e la costa atlantica. In merito a cid, Gianfranco Folena segnala voci 
come calma, tormenta, baia, sonda, norte o nord di area atlantica cui 
corrispondono bonaccia, fortuna o fortunak, cala o golfo, scandagho, tramontana 
di area mediterranea (101).’ 
La nuova terminologia, fatta di nuove parole che sono prestiti 


Ne diversita delle tipologie testuali e quantita di scritture di 


1. Per indicazioni generali sulla lingua nella letteratura del viaggio si veda Cardona 687-716 
(in particolare 701-705). 
2. Bruno Migliorini, Storia della lingua italiana (Firenze: Sansoni, 1971): 399. 


3. Cfr. anche Mario Pozzi, “Le lingue esotiche nella letteratura di viaggio del Cinquecento 
italiano” in Leta delle scoperte 23-65. 





Annali ditalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


224 CARLA MARCATO 
(solitamente detti ‘ ‘esotismi””’) o neoformazioni all'interno della stessa 
lingua o calchi semantici, risponde a due diverse reazioni linguistiche di 
fronte a cid che non é noto: la richiesta del nome alle persone del luogo, 
Paccostamento a qualcosa di noto, com’é il caso del fico d'India, 
denominazione nella quale la “somiglianza della ‘cosa’ o di un particolare 
della cosa, in questo caso il frutto, produce un trasferimento di nome nella 
casella vuota, mentre la determinazione geografica aggiunta indica l'origine 
esotica e sottolinea la differenza nella similarita” (Folena 102). Vie e 
modalita di penetrazione del prestito linguistico possono essere 
particolarmente complicate e solo per certe voci é stato possibile ricostruire 
la storia della parola, seguire il percorso di un prodotto; 1 libri di viaggio 
sono una delle fonti per l'ingresso e lo studio degli esotismi. 

In generale si puo poi osservare che, oltre agli inserti lessicali stranieri, 
le scritture di viaggio del XVI secolo solitamente sono caratterizzate da un 
tipo di italiano che ha frequentemente 1 tratti della regionalita che si 
manifesta in maniera evidente nell'utilizzo di una terminologia locale e cio 
puo essere dettato dalla mancanza di un corrispondente in italiano, ma 
anche dal tono del racconto che per lo pit non favorisce il ricorso della 
forma letteraria. Un esempio da Cesare Federici “empie il carniero o il 
cesto d’ostreghe, che trova in fondo del mare e indi scorla la corda e i 
compagni, che stanno attenti in barca, tirano su ditta corda in pressa” (824). e 
Ma vi sono anche testi piu decisamente dislocati sul piano diatopico come 
I'Itinerarto del bolognese Ludovico de Vartema che ha 1 tratti della koiné 
padana: 


Diro li frutti boni che vi sonno e li tristi: melgranate e melcotogne bone; 
mandole e olive grosse bonissime, e rose bianche e rosse le piu belle che 
mai vedesse; e sonno bone mela e pere e persiche, ma tnstissime al 
gusto; e la cason di questo si é che Damasco € molto abundante d’acque. 


4. SulPuso di “esotismo” nella lessicografia italiana, si veda Marco Mancini, “Voci orientali 
ed esotiche nella lingua italiana”; il termine puo essere inteso in diverso modo, ma, 
seguendo Mancini € opportuno usare “esotismo” nelle sue diverse accezioni «sino a farne 
un iperonimo della serie geograficamente denotativa costituita sia dagli orientalismi sensa 
stricore (arabismi, turchismi, iranismi, ebraismi, magiarismi, ecc.), sia dagli americanismi 
(voci algonchine, mesoamericane, tupi-guarani, ecc.), sia, infine, dai termini che provengono 
da altre zone remote rispetto al continente europeo (ad esempio dall’Oceania). Se 
attribuiamo a esotismo la semplice valenza culturale di ‘vocabolo remoto’ dunque ‘esotico’ 
[...] il vantaggio é duplice. Da un canto individuiamo mediante una sola categoria una classe 
di prestiti materialmente diversissimi fra loro ma ideologicamente accomunati da una 
matrice che é per l'appunto culturalmente ‘eccentrica’ rispetto a quella europea. Dall’altro 
entriamo in possesso di un’etichetta che allude in modo trasparente a una caratteristica 
linguisticamente unitaria di tutti questi prestiti, ossia il loro rinviare costantemente a 
situazioni di mediazione piuttosto che di contatto o di interferenza diretta, dunque a luoghi 
genetici ‘remoti’ nei quali non si verificano mai reali forme di acculturazione, quanto 
piuttosto di contiguita episodica e puntiforme” (827-828). 

5. Su questo e altri elementi lessicali formati con “d’India”, cfr. Manlio Cortelazzo, 
“Conseguenze nei dialetti italiani delle esplorazioni geografiche” in L'eta delle scoperte. 119- 
128, specie 121-122. 


6. Il frammento di Federici contiene varie forme venete: ostreghe per ostriche, scorla per scrvlla, 
in pressa pet in fretta. 


ASPETTI LINGUISTICI DELL7;ODEPORICA CINQUECENTESCA 225 


Va una fiumara per mezo de la cita; una gran parte delle case hanno 
fontane bellissime de musaico; e le stanzie de fora sonno brute, ma 
dentro sonno bellisssime con molti lavoro de marmoro e porfido; e in 
questa cita sonno de multe moschee. (302)’ 


Relativamente agli aspetti sintattici, Cardona ha osservato che una 
generalizzazione é difficile da farsi trattandosi di testi di varia natura che 
sono per lo pit il risultato di appunti e memoria; tuttavia si pud indicare 
una costruzione sintattica ricorrente che é il polisindeto (702). 

Il lessico dunque risulta ben caratterizzato da voci regionali e prestiti 
da lingue straniere; questi ultimi possono essere occasionali, effimeri; altri 
possono aver conosciuto una certa vitalita ma configurarsi ora come 
obsoleti.* Certo é che a differenza delle scritture precedenti, in quelle del 
tardo Quattrocento e in quelle del secolo successivo si nota un 
atteggiamento diverso da parte del viaggiatore:’ le osservazioni e descrizioni 
sono meno direttamente connesse a fini utilitaristici e piu dirette alla 
scrittura come divulgazione per un pubblico che non comprende solo 
mercanti o altri coinvolti direttamente in un'impresa come il viaggio. In una 
qualche misura queste scritture avranno contribuito alla diffusione di 
notizie e anche di elementi linguistici, almeno di alcuni dei tanti 
forestierismi di cui sono ricche:'” “gli autori — scrive Cardona — hanno 
passato lungo tempo in luoghi in cui la loro lingua materna era sconosciuta 
e dove erano correnti altre lingue, soprattutto lo spagnolo e il portoghese; 
ed anzi proprio le lingue, nella loro evidente diversita rispetto a quelle 
familiari, erano una delle caratteristiche piu salienti dell'alterita dei luoghi 
visitati’” (702). “Appena giunsi alle Indie, — scrive Cristoforo Colombo — 
nella prima isola che scoprii presi a forza alcuni degli abitanti, perché 


7. Mario Pozzi nella “Nota ai testi” osserva: “Per quanto riguarda la lingua e la grafia, 
I'Itinerario é fra i testi pit rappresentativi della koiné padana, anche per la grande 
regolarita con cui si realizza l'incontro di forme dotte e volgari. Vi si nota una cospicua 
presenza di grafie umanistiche, che in parte almeno sono dovute a non generiche 
aspirazioni culturali, e una spiccata tendenza (forse inattesa in un viaggiatore) a soluzioni 
normative; accanto a queste forme "culte” si incontrano grafie che rispecchiano, sia pure 
in maniera mediata, il fondo dialettale padano-emiliano” (Caraci 1003). 


8. Della quantita e varieta dei cosiddetti esotismi si puod avere un'idea attraverso la 
consultazione di quella Raccolta di voc affatto sconosciute o mal note ai lessicografi ed ai filologi, 
dovuta a Enrico Zaccaria, stampata a Marradi nel 1919. Tale opera ha una certa utilita, ma 
per vari aspetti appare discutibile; si veda Giovan Battista Pellegrini, “ Osservazioni sugli 
esotismi della Racco/ta di E. Zaccaria” (L'eta delle scoperte 149-156). 


9. Cfr. Marco Mancini, “L’identita e le differenze etnolinguistiche nei viaggiatori da Polo 
a Colombo” (L’eta delle scoperte 97-118). 


10. Cfr. Mancini, Vo oriental, in particolare “Gli esotismi presenti nel libri di viaggio dal 
Cinquecento in poi dovevano pur avere una qualche circolazione. La lettura di queste 
opere, che contenevano relazioni da terre lontane, contribuiva a diffondere ed estendere 
la nozione di cose e parole sino ad allora ignote. Non bisogna, in sostanza, sottovalutare 
la portata di questo canale editoriale nel momento in cui si censiscono le voci esotiche 
penetrate nell'italiano postrinascimentale» (867). Una delle opere del XVI secolo 
maggiormente fortunate al suo tempo é I’Istoria del Mondo Nuovo di Girolamo Benzoni, 
tradotta e piu volte ristampata (Caraci 656-695). 


226 CARLA MARCATO 


imparassero la nostra lingua e mi dessero notizie di quello che c'era da 
quelle parti; e cosi avvenne che ben presto riuscimmo a capirci a vicenda, 
un po’ con le parole e un po’ con 1 gesti, e questo é stato di grande utilita” 
(32). 

Gli inserti lessicali stranieri si debbono a motivazioni diverse ma 
sostanzialmente possono essere — seguendo ancora Cardona — consapevoli 
o inconsapevoli e in questo secondo caso rientrano soprattutto numerosi 
iberismi che si insinuano “nel testo sul portato della memoria, come parte 
integrante del testo narrato: Della quale st servono gh spagnol per alcatramare, 
o vero impectare le corde e sarte delle loro navt” (Cardona 702). Talvolta si tengono 
distinte le tradizioni linguistiche; si veda il Sassetti (nel testo si riferisce a 


Goa): 


Ma laltre mercanzie che vengono per mare hanno el tempo loro 
determinato, che si chiama qua monzao |da osservare che si tratta della 
forma portoghese per ‘monsone’. (526) 

AlPentrar del verno cominciano a soffiare i venti del mezzogiomo, 
con 1 quali si commuovono I’arene del fondo del mare e fanno siepe su 
la foce de’ porti, che 1 Portoghesi dimandano barre. (927) 

A Bengala vanno di quelle chioccioline piccole che si trovano 
nell'isola di Maldiva; chiamale qua caurim, in Portogallo bazio. (928). 


Relativamente alle modalita di acquisizione degli esotismi, tra le 
mediazioni va sottolineata quella portoghese per varie voci asiatiche come 
ha sottolineato Cardona: 


Si puo dimostrare pero che solo raramente c’é un contatto linguistico 
diretto fra Posservatore narrante e gli indigeni; anche moltissime forme 
locali e date come assolutamente tali sono gia la forma corrente di una 
lingua franca a base spagnola o portoghese, che in quanto tale € ormai 
piu facilmente assimilabile e pronunciabile e che quindi é accettata come 
tale anche dagli stessi locali: “Una sorte di vincigli molto forti, che li 
Giapponesi chiamano zit e quelli dell'Tsole Filippine vesciuco [spagnolo 
bejuco ‘iana’}”; “Quest tali quadri sono chiamat in lingua giapponese 
biobus [portoghese biombos ‘paraventi’)”. (702)"" 


Ma specialmente in certi autori cinquecenteschi come il vicentino 
Antonio Pigafetta, uno dei diciotto superstiti della spedizione di Magellano 
tra il 1519 e il 1522, che dimostra di avere “una vena di linguista”, ee 
modo di guardare al termine esotico é consapevole e frutto di una curiosita 
anche linguistica.'? La parola straniera serve per coprire un vuoto lessicale 


11. I due frammenti sono presi dai Ragionamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo (1594-1606) 
di F. Carletti, ripreso da Cardona 703. 

12. Pfister, Max, “Riflessi nel lessico italiano dei viaggi di Colombo, di Vespucci e di 
Magellano”(L'eta delle scoperte 9-22; la citazione € a p. 19 con l’aggiunta che “La messe 
lessicale del Pigafetta € straordinaria, come lo fu tutto il suo primo viaggio attorno al 
mondo”). 

13. Al Pigafetta si devono liste di vocaboli glossati: una lista di vocaboli degli indios 
brasiliani, una seconda lista di vocaboli “dei giganti patagoni”; il vocabolario malese, una 


ASPETTI LINGUISTICI DELL7;ODEPORICA CINQUECENTESCA 227 


ed € necessaria per la descrizione di un paese e delle sue caratteristiche, ma 
diventa anche un elemento importante per una scrittura che intende 
proporsi come una sorta di guida per il viaggiatore:'* “acid che, venendo 
desiderio a qualcheduno de andarvi, sia instruto; perché importa a chi vol 
far viagi eser bene informato da qualcheduno, che nel parlar sia saldo” 
(Anonimo Veneziano 779); un insieme di termini fondamentali possono 
«servire da prima base comunicativa per il viaggiatore curioso. Non é un 
caso che il maggior rammarico del Carletti nella sua prefazione ai 
Ragionamenti sia il fatto di non poter “cosi minutamente raccontare a V.A. 
fil Gran Duca di Toscana Ferdinando de’ Medici] ogni particularita di 
quanto ho visto et aveva osservato et aveva notato ne’ suddetti mia scritti; 
de’ quali non mi rimane altro, che una poca memoria travagliata dalle 
miserie occorsemi” (Mancini “Voci oriental” 868). Appunti, canovacci, 
ma spesso é, infatti, la memoria alla base della scrittura: “Trovai ancora 
quivi un altro frutto, el quale é proprio como il nespolo, ma é bianco come 
un pomo: non me racordo come se chiama per nome”, si legge nell'I#nerario 
di Ludovico de Vartema (343). 

L'inserto lessicale esotico necessita di una definizione che non é facile 
dare trattandosi di referenti nuovi, e di una modalita di espressione che di 
frequente consiste in un paragone, una somiglianza con qualcosa di noto, 
e senza fornire troppi dettagli: 


asfor questo é simile al zafarano, e da noi é messo in opera da tentori. 
(Anonimo Veneziano 779) 

che sono come aspri turcheschi e si domandano dening. (Barberini 731) 
ne venne vicino una barchetta da loro detta salangara; 

chiamandosi detti soldat brama (Balbi 951). 


Pit circostanziate le indicazioni di alcuni scrittori, come Ludovico de 
Vartema, ad esempio nella descrizione della banana: “Nasce in questo paese 
ancora un altro frutto molto singulare, el qual frutto se chiama malapolanda. 
L'arbor di questo si € alto quanto un omo o poco pit; e fa 4 0 vero 5 foglie, 
le qual sonno rami e foglie. Ciascuna de queste copre uno omo da l’acqua 
e dal sole. Nel mezo de questo getta un certo ramo che fa li fiori a modo 
de un pede de fave; e poi fa alcuni frutti che sonno longhi mezo palmo e 
un palmo; e sonno grossi come una asta de una zanetta. E quando se vol 
tagliare el ditto frutto non expettano che ’] sia maturo, perché se matura 
in casa. E uno ramo de questi frutti ne fara 20 ve/ arca, e tutti se toccano 
Puno con laltro. De questi frutti se ne trova 3 sorte. [...]” (De Vartema 


lista di vocaboli dalle Filippine, cfr. Soravia, Giulio, “Pigafetta lessicografo dei vecchi e 
nuovi mondi” (L’efa delle scoperte 67-95). 

14. “Sul piano referenziale queste voci riempivano caselle lessicali indispensabili per chi 
intendese descrivere la mappa di un certo paese, le sue mercanzie, i suoi costumi. Sul piano 
propriamente linguistico, una buona narrazione di viaggio affiancava all'elencazione di dati 
utili una sorta di baedeker minimo, fatto di liste di termini fondamentali che potevano 
servire da base comunicativa per il viaggiatore curioso” (Mancini, “Voci orientali” 868) 


228 CARLA MARCATO 


343)."3 


I forestierismi possono essere attestati da fonti diverse e con variazioni: 


de non mangiare betole; le quale betole sonno come foglie de melangole; 
le quali usano loro de continuo a mangiare. E sonno tanto queste a loro 
come sonno le confezzione a noi, e mangiano queste pit che per 
luxuriare che per altra cosa alcuna. E quando mangiano le ditte foglie, 
mangiano un certo frutto el quale se chiama coffols, e l'arboro de ditto 
coffolo se chiama arecha, e é fatta a modo de uno pede de dattalo e fa 
li frutti a quel modo. E similmente mangiano con le ditte foglie certa 
calcina de scorze de ostreghe la quale loro chiamano caonama; (Vartema 
336-337) 

di che forse non é piccola cagione 1] masticar essi continuamente quella 
foglia che domandono bet con un frutto chiamato areca, ch'é l'avellana 
indica, impiastrandovi sopra un poco di gesso, le quali son tutte cose 
astringenti, donde si rende loro tutta la bocca e la lingua asciutta e sottile. 
(Sassetti 917) 


Tra le voci meglio attestate’® vi é canoa (dall'arawak Randa): “navicano in 
certi navili che tengono, che si dicono canoe” (Vespucci 234-23 5); anche al 
singolare “presono una canoé della isola”,"’ “le barche loro canove” (Benzoni 
681), “Hanno barche d’uno solo arburo ma schize, quiamate canoe, cavate 
con menare de pietra” (Pigafetta 533); la parola é gia attestata da Colombo 
(“Ellos tienen en todas las yslas muy muchas canoas”, Caraci 32) e ripresa 
in un cantare popolaresco di Guliano Dati, un fiorentino trasferito a Roma, 
intitolato Storia de le insule Channarie nuovamente ritrovate, edito nel 1497 
(ristampato due volte nello stesso anno) in cui sono descritte quelle barche 
“le qual d’un legno solo fatte stanno, / e son chiamate queste chanoé [...] 
/ benché non grossamente lavorate, / con rami e legni e ossi son cavati” 
(Folena 108-109). 

Interesse linguistico ha ancora, nelle scritture di viaggio connesse alle 
scoperte geografiche, la neotoponomastica: la scoperta di nuove terre 
induce gli scopritori ad assegnare un nome ai luoghi (nomi solo in parte 
rimasti nella tradizione toponomastica), quando non sia conosciuto, ma 
talvolta é assegnato un nuovo nome accanto a quello locale per rendere 
piu vicina una realta esotica con nomi che si ispirano di frequente alla 
religione, ringraziando in tal modo Dio, la Madonna e i Santi che hanno 
reso possibile il viaggio, e nomi che, altrettanto frequentemente, riprendono 
in modo particolare quelli di coloro che hanno sostenuto e appoggiato le 
imprese di viaggio.'* Tra i vari esempi si veda un passo di Cristoforo 


15. In nota si precisa che malapolanda é \a voce valapalam del malayam;, zanetta & vatiante 
settentrionale di grannetta (lancia corta e leggera). 

16. Su tale parola si veda Folena, 109 e Pfister “Riflessi nel lessico italiano” 10-12. 

17. Nella Lettera del Vespucci al Soderini stampata a Firenze nel 1505, citato da Folena 
(110); in questo punto, come altrove nel testo, precisa Folena, la voce non é accentata, ma 
Paccentazione é sicura. 


18. Cfr. Manlio Cortelazzo, “I nomi dell'America” in Le Ameniche. Storie di viaggiaton italiani, 
(Milano: Nuovo Banco Ambrosiano, 1987): 84-89. 


ASPETTI LINGUISTICI DELL; ODEPORICA CINQUECENTESCA 229 


Colombo: “Alla prima isola che trovai diedi il nome di ‘San Salvador’, in 
omaggio alla Suprema Maesta che miracolosamente mi ha concesso tutto 
questo; gli indios la chiamano ‘Guanahant’; alla seconda posi il nome di 
‘Santa Maria della Concezione’, alla terza ‘Fernandina’, alla quarta ‘Isabella’, 
alla quinta ‘Giovanna’, e cosi a ciascuna diedi un nome nuovo” (Colombo 
25-26). I nuovi nomi non sono solo celebrativi ed encomiastici relativi a 
personaggi, 0 a varie circostanze della scoperta (la data, per esempio) spesso 
riprendono qualche somiglianza o ricordo della terra d’origine o di 
provenienza: “giunse a un’isola assai alta sul mare e la chiamo Monserrat, 
perché sembrava avesse il profilo delle rupi di Monserrat”, secondo il 
racconto del viaggio di Colombo di Bartolomé de Las Casas." I toponimi 
possono essere anche descrittivi in rapporto a caratteristiche del luogo 
“Chiamai questa punta ‘dell’Arenile’;” “una punta che chiamai ‘dell’Ago’,” 
“chiamai questo luogo ‘Giardini’, perché é il nome pit adatto”;” “In questi 
tre mesi e vinti giorni andasemo circa de quatro millia legue in un golfo 
per questo Mar Pacifico (in vero é benne pacifico, perché in questo tempo 
non avessemo fortuna) sensa vedere tera alcuna si non due isolote 
desabitate, nelle qual non trovassemo altro se non ucelli e arbori: la 
chiamssemo Isolle Infortunate” (Pigafetta 547).7" Si tratta di una 
toponomastica che in genere é trasparente e spesso la ragione della 
designazione é esplicita e, oltre che a un’analisi formale, si presta alla 
ricostruzione, con buona sicurezza, delle modalita di imposizione dei nuovi 
nomi geografici,” che richiede, comunque, una certa attenzione 
nell’individuazione del motivo onomasiologico non sempre cosi evidente. 
Si vedano alcuni passi di Giovanni da Verrazzano relativi all’attribuzione 
di toponimi: 


Essendo in questa dimorati tre giorni, surti a la costa per la rarita de' 
porti, deliberammo partire, scorrendo sempre il lito, qual batezamo 
Arcadia pet la belleza de li arboni, infra septemtrione e onente; il di 
solamente navigando e la notte posando I'ancora, corremo una costa 
molto verde de selve, ma senza porti e con alcuni promontoni ameni 
e fiumi picoli. Batezamo la costa di Lorenna per el Cardinale, el primo 
promontorio Langone, el secondo Bonivetto, e lo fiumo piu grande 
Vandoma, e uno monticello, quale manet mari, di S. Polo per el conte. (600) 


19. “[...] y lleg6 a una isla muy alta, y nombrola Monserrate, porque pareciale que tenia la 
figura de las pefias de Monserrate” (Historia de /as Indias di Bartolomé de La Casas, in Caraci 
123-124). 

20. “A esta punta Ilamé de/ Arenal’, “una punta 4 que yo llamé de "Agyja’, “Lamé alli 4 este 
lugar Jardines, porque asi conforman por el nombre” (Cristoforo Colombo [dalle “Lettere 
ai re cattolici], da Hispaniola”, ottobre 1498, in Caraci: 156, 161, 164. 

21. La designazione toponimica riprende lo spagnolo znfortunadas (disgraziate). 

22. Su questi aspetti si veda specialmente Miguel Metzeltin, “A toponimia espanhola da 
América segundo a Historia general de las Indias de Francisco Lopez de Gomara” in A 
abertura do mundo. Estudos de historia dos descobrimentos europeus. En Homenagem a Luis de 
Albuquerque (Lisb6a: Editorial Presenga, 1986): 89-99. 


230 CARLA MARCATO 


La bocca del porto, quale per la belleza chiamamo Refugio [...] Nel mezo 
di decta bocca si truova uno scoglio di viva pietra da la natura prodotto, 
acto a fabricarvi qual si voglia machina o propugnacolo per custodia di 
quello, quale e per la natura del saxo e per la famiglia de una gentildona 
chiamiamo La petra viva; a cui dextro lato de detta boca del porto é un 
promontorio qual diximo Jovium Promontorium |...] discoprimmo 32 isole, 
fra le quali tre magiori dicemo Le fre fighe di Navarra. (607-608) 


I toponimi ricordati si nchiamano ai seguenti riferimenti storici: di Lorenna 
per Giovanni di Guisa detto il cardinale di Lorena (1498-1550), Lanzone 
dal nome di Carlo IV di Valois, duca d’Alencgon (1489-1525), Bonivetto in 
onore di Guillaume Gouffier, signore di Bonnivet (1488-1525), Vandoma 
in onore di Carlo di Borbone, duca di Vendéme (1489-1537), il monticello 
che manet man (‘incombe sul mare’) é chiamato S. Po/ in onore di Francesco 
IT di Borbone-Vend6dme, conte di Saint-Pol (14911545), La pietra viva allude 
a Marie-Cathérine de Pierrevive, moglie del fiorentino Antonio Gondi, il 
piu influente tra 1 banchieri e 1 mercanti di Lione che avevano partecipato 
al finanziamento della spedizione, Le fre fighe di Navarra & invece una 
designazione che riprende i nomi di Anna, Caterina, e Isabella, nate dal 
matrimonio di Giovanni duca di Albret (1470-1516) con Caterina di Foix 
(1483-1517), che gli aveva portato in dote la corona di Navarra. 


Universita di Udine 


ASPETTI LINGUISTICI DELL;ODEPORICA CINQUECENTESCA 231 


Opere citate 


Anonimo Veneziano, “Viagio dal Caiero in Ebrin” in Caraci 777-796. 

Balbi, Gasparo, “Viaggio dell’Indie orientali” in Caraci 949-989. 

Barberini, Raffaello, “Relazione di Moscovia” in Caraci 707-740. 

Benzoni, Girolamo, “Istoria del mondo nuovo” in Caraci 663-695. 

Caraci, Ilaria Luzzana, ed., Scopritori e viaggiatori del Cinquecento, testi e glossario a 
cura di Mario Pozzi. Milano-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1996: XIX. 

Cardona, Giorgio Raimondo, “T viaggi e le scoperte” in Lefteratura itahiana. V. Le 
questioni, diretta da Alberto Asor Rosa, Torino: Einaudi, 1986, 5: 687-716. 

Colombo, Cristoforo, “Lettera al Santangel” in Caraci 23-41. 

Lieta delle scoperte geografiche nei suoi riflessi linguistia in Itaka.. Convegno di studi 
(Firenze, ottobre 1992). Firenze: Accademia della Crusca, 1994. 

Federici, Cesare, “Viaggio nell’India orientale e oltre” in Caraci 807-858. 

Folena, Gianfranco. I//inguaggio del caos. Studi sul plurilinguismo rinascimentale. Torino: 
Bollati Boringhien, 1991: 100. 

Mancini, Marco, “L'identita e le differenze etnolinguistiche nei viaggiatori da Polo 
a Colombo”, in Leta delle scoperte, pp. 97-118. 

Mancini, Marco, “Voci orientali ed esotiche nella lingua italiana” in Storia della 
Lingua itakana: Le altre lingue, a cura di Luca Serianni e Pietro Trnifone. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1994, 3: 825-879 

Pigafetta, Antonio, “Notizie del mondo nuovo” in Caraci 525-571 

Pozzi, Mario, “Le lingue esotiche nella letteratura di viaggio del Cinquecento 
italiano” in L ‘eta delle scoperte, pp. 23-65. 

Sassetti, Filippo, “Lettere” in Caraci 872-936. 

Vartema, Ludovico de, “Itinerario” in Caraci 295-369. 

Verrazzano, Giovanni da, “Lettera a Francesco I” in Caraci 591-616. 

Vespucci, Amerigo, “Lettera a Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de’ Medici” in Caraci 
219-271. 


Hi)! 


| 


ss — 
ses 
—— 


aL 


a | 


_—————— 


= 
— 
—S——— 
JF} ——— 
= Sa 


il 


Hn 


i 
Nt 


Th fad 


-, 


Reeser Avi |It 


"i 





THOMAS G. OLSEN 





Poisoned Figs and Italian Sallets: Nation, Diet, 
and the Early Modern English Traveler 


Suffer not thy sons to pass the Alps, for they shall learn nothing but pride, 
blasphemy, and atheism. And if by travel they attain to some few broken 
languages, they will profit them no more than to have one meat served 
in divers dishes. (Wright 11) 


practical advice, William Cecil, Lord Burghley, quite significantly 
chooses a dietary metaphor to represent the moral and cultural dangers 
widely believed to inhere in the perilous but often necessary practice of overseas 
educational travel, especially travel to Italy. To Cecil, just as a single foodstuff 
served in “divers dishes” is no improvement over “one meat” served more 
appropriately in one dish, the accumulation of “some few broken languages” 
is not worth the ever-present risk of cultural pollution that follows from 
compromising one’s own language and, by extension, one’s self. 
This risk is the very sort that Cecil’s contemporary and fellow courtier Roger 
Ascham had famously warned of in The Scholemaster (1570). The young traveler, 
Ascham feared, 


H: in one of early modern England’s most often quoted epistles of 


shall not always, in his absence out of England, light upon a gentle Alcinous 
and walk in his fair gardens full of all harmless pleasures, but he shall 
sometimes fall either into the hands of some cruel Cyclops or into the lap 
of some wanton and dallying Dame Calypso, and so suffer the danger of many 
a deadly den, not so full of perils to destroy the body as full of vain pleasures 
to poison the mind. Some Siren shall sing him a song, sweet in tune, but 
sounding in the end to his utter destruction. If Scylla drown him not, 
Charybdis may fortune swallow him. Some Circe shall make him, of a plain 
Englishman, a right Italian. (64-65) 


According to Ascham, the young English traveler’s attraction to Italian ways 
and mores—figured as “licentious vanity, that sweet and perilous poison of all 
youth” with which the heedless youth of England “englut” themselves—has but 
one antidote, namely a medicinal preparation for the soul, called by Homer “the 
herb mo/y”” and identified more explicitly by Ascham as the knowing pursuit 


Annali dTtalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


234 ‘THOMAS G. OLSEN 


of virtue and self-conscious avoidance of “the poison of vain pleasure” (64-65). 

Though the social controversy to which Ascham directs his critique was 
real, not all Elizabethans adopted Ascham’s earnest approach and grave tone 
when recognizing it. In a verse epistle of 1572, George Gascoigne, another 
sometime courtier, offered the following advice to one Barthlomew Withypoll 
on the occasion of the young man’s impending voyage to Italy: 


Mine own good Bat, before thou hoise up saile, 

To make a furrowe in the foming seas, 

Content thy selfe to heare for thine availe, 

Such harmlesse words, as ought thee not displease. (Gascoigne 295-99) 


Gascoigne goes on to counsel Withypoll to eschew the three “P’s” of Italian 
travel: poison, pride, and papistry. He advises him to “feed on fish” rather than 
allow a “Magnifico” to foist upon his dish a “fico” (fig). He also cautions him 
against the usual travelers’ temptations, including a slavish imitation of 
continental fashions—advice that concludes with the injunction not to bear his 
“Rapier poynte above the hilte, /[...] looking bigge lyke Marquise of al Beefe” 
(ll. 70-76, 113-14). With these two dietary metaphors, Gascoigne humorously 
opposes the orthodoxy of English fish days with the lure (and danger) of the 
fico. He first describes the ways the subtle Italians might attempt to poison 
young Withypoll’s body and soul, warning him not to become “bayte to sette 
Italyan hands on woork.” His catalogue of sartorial excesses (“such knackes” 
learned “abroade in forayne lande”’) culminates with the ridiculous portrait of 
a quintessentially English Marquise of al Beefe kitted up in the extravagant fashions 
of the continent.’ 

Such imagery, teetering as it does between the earnest and the out-and-out 
humorous, also occurs on the public stage, that great indicator of early modern 
English cultural currents. In act four of Ben Jonson’s Vo/pone (1607), for 
example, the stock comic figure Sir Politic Would-Be offers his advice on 
navigating the cultural perils of Venice: 


[...] for your religion, professe none; 
But wonder, at the diversity of all; 
And, for your part, protest, were there no other 
But simply the lawes o’th’ land, you could content you: 
NIC: MACHIAVEL, and monsieur BODINE, both, 
Were of this minde. Then, must you learn the use, 
And handling of your silver fork, at meales; 
The mettal of your glasse: (these are the maine matters 


With your Italian) and to know the hour, 


1. Two versions of this poem exist, the second one (1575) substituting “piles and pockes” 
for “Papistrie” (See the very useful discussion in Pigman’s commentary 652). 


DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 235 
When you must eat your melons, and your figges. (4.1.22-31) 


In his The White Devil (1612), Jonson’s fellow playwright John Webster also 
invokes the language of diet—in this case, however, not to suggest ways to navigate 
the perils of Venice, but to represent the ways that stereotypically murderous 
Mediterraneans could dispatch their victims, using the indirect, subtle means 
of poisoned fruit or vegetables: 


As in this world there are degrees of evils: 

So in this world there are degrees of devils. 

You're a great Duke; I your poor secretary. 

I look now for a Spanish fig, or an Italian sallet daily. (4.2.58-61) 


The intelligent but malcontent secretary Flamineo here reflects anxiously that 
his powerful patron, the Duke of Bracciano, will one day dispatch him by a 
“Spanish fig” or “Italian sallet.” Both images are contemporary euphemisms 
for secret poisoning, precisely what Flamineo, the “poor secretary” of the 
exchange, fears will be his fate as his usefulness to the irascible, ambitious duke 
diminishes—and precisely what Webster’s English audiences would expect subtle 
Mediterranean politicos to do to their henchmen.’ 

Both of Webster’s images here participate in and draw upon certain 
conceptions of dietary theory that, as we will see, offer a particularly revealing 
dimension of English travel writing and descriptive history. But for Webster’s 
image, Jonson’s jest, or indeed Gascoigne’s witty admonition, or Ascham or Cecil’s 
more sober warnings to have any meaning, all these writers must be able to 
depend upon an assumed (and presumably shared) ideological congruity of diet, 
poison and cultural identity among their English readers. Where Cecil offers 
only a very general metaphor of “broken meats” that do not nourish, Gascoigne’s 
reference to “ficos” foisted upon a plate invokes the age-old association of figs 
and both the vulva and the anus,’ and so offers a specific caution, 4 /¢ Ascham, 
that the Italians will try to tempt English youth from sexual, moral, and patriotic 
rectitude by poisoning them with foodstuffs, medicines, and seemingly sweet 
poisons that callow youths will ingest, to their own peril. In Vojpone, Sir Politic 
Would-Be’s apparently incongruous yoking within the same speech of the 
Venetians’ religious amorality and their practices at table (“Then, must you learn”) 
invokes deep, consistent English assumptions concerning the differences between 
Italian and English “character,” while Webster’s image of an Italian political 
murder accomplished by means of poisoned nourishment plays upon a stock 
stage image of the same imagined cultural differences. 

Finally, to return to the matter of travel writing in particular: Thomas 


2. On congruities between Webster’s Italian world and that of early Stuart England, see 
Griffin 54; Goldberg, introduction and ch. 3; Dollimore, ch. 15; Tempera 229-50. 


3. On the multiple valences of “fico” or fig, see the notes in Taylor 189-90. 


236 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


Coryate’s massive and generically complex Crudities (1611) alludes not only in 
its tithe (Coryats Crudities Hastily gobled up in five Moneths travells) but also in its richly 
layered title page to an intersection of beliefs concerning diet, ingestion, individual 
health, and cultural identity. Perhaps more than any English traveler before him, 
Coryate was intensely conscious of his own bodily progress through the European 
continent (or perhaps he was merely the most willing to write about it). His 
decision to give his work a title that blurs the line between hastily written, 
unpolished narrative and uncooked foodstuffs is highly revelatory of the nexus | 
of cultural values I wish to address here, for itis, according to the subtitle, a work — 
“now dispersed to the nourishment of the travelling Members of this Kingdome.” | 

Even Coryate’s amusing title page reminds his readers of the corporeal facts 
of travel: six different forms of locomotion or conveyance are represented, as 
are moments of sleep stolen along the way, sexual trysts, and bodily dangers (such 
as forced circumcision) encountered en route. But most insistently, the 
frontispiece emphasizes the book’s central metaphor, in which travel, narrative, 
and food consumption become versions of the same experience: we find two 
scenes of vomiting, as well as imagery of cornucopias, grape-stealing at harvest 
time, begging for food, and an attack of flying eggs. Admittedly, many of the 
subtleties of Coryate’s odd brand of humor lie buried deep within the pages of 
the volume, but some others announce themselves quite clearly through the 
book’s main imaginative figure, “crudities”—namely, experiences and encounters 
gained through recreational travel that remain partially or imperfectly digested. 
Whatever its other resonances, the book is also fundamentally a meditation on 
the dietary and cultural beliefs of a nation on the verge of a rich tradition of 
educational travel and imaginative travel writing. 

But Coryate’s lavish attention to the corporeal facts of foreign travel was 
not merely a clever literary trope, either. Indeed, Coryate himself died abroad 
in 1617, the unfortunate victim of a bloody flux exacerbated by (probably) 
excessive doses of sack. Many other Englishmen no doubt met similar ends while 
overseas—the same threat that had concerned William Cecil half a century before, 
in 1562. At this time, Cecil received a dispatch from his son Thomas’s tutor 
concerning the young man’s imminent departure for Italy: “It is to be feared that 
Mr. Thomas shall not bear the great heats of that country, and being given also 
to eat much fruit, may soon fall into sickness, as he did in France by that 
occasion” (Wyndebank 109). 


* * * * * 


Somewhere between the purely gastro-intestinal and the literary, between the 
strictly medical and the merely ideological, exist certain culturally encoded 
apprehensions of diet that can help us to approach two closely related questions: 
first, what did the English traveler of the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries 


DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 237 


actually know about dietary theory, about the nutritional and medicinal properties 
of foods; and second, how did his knowledge (for in this period it was almost 
exclusively males who made the voyage from England to the continent) affect 


xh 
i’ 
NA 
= 


em Crudities. 


: Pas : 

- 4 Daily gbled ap in Ate 

4 Voneths trauclls mPrance, 
FS aucy, Fealy, Rhetia comonly |; 
called the Grisons Country el: | 
uctia alias Switzerland, som® 


parts of bigh Germany, and tho 
“Wake 





etherlands ¢ 
: ewly daested inthe bungry aire 
E Cc ' ~ 
‘ caer pane ene 
p $A now dis arse to the |i 
met ofthe willing Mem: | 
« bary of this Ke omer. ft 4 
Quads ius ben crucre,nawibus ates), a 


v 4 a = j fo iy an 





The title page of Coryate’s Crudities (1611) 
Courtesy of the James Marshall And Marie-Louise Osborn Collection 
Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library — Yale University 


238 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


his experience as a traveler, when—often for the first ttme—he was actually faced 
with unfamiliar foodstuffs and strange dietary practices? While several recent 
studies of early modern travel have reported some of the more notable examples 
of English surprise or discomfort concerning matters of culinary or gastronomic 
difference, they have been essentially silent on the far more interesting matter 
of what expectations and anxieties, what “framework of assumptions,” underlay 
such moments of dietary and cultural distress.’ 

If educational travel is an exercise—and etymologically, it is recognized as 
a true /abor, a fravai/-in discovering the unknown, “a painetaking to see and 
searche forreine landes,” according to Jerome Turler, it is also an exercise in 
discovering that which is internal and within, a Bi/dungreise whose end is the 
renewal and recreation of the self.” What early modern English travelers and 
travel polemicists found when they looked within was consistently, almost 
invariably, allied with the broader matter of national and cultural identification, 
however: the early modern English subject was, in Elizabeth Hanson’s apt phrase, 
also a subject.’ No wonder, then, that “within” existed then (as now) as both 
a visceral and a metaphysical category, for travel and diet emerge in sixteenth- 
and early seventeenth-century writing as inextricably bound, a key instance of 
what one critic terms discourse’s intersection with lived experience (McEachern 
15-16). For our purposes here, this point of intersection concerns how English 
dietary theories and practices shaped that nation’s travelers as they made their 
often slow progress to and through the Italian peninsula, how what they knew 
(or thought they knew) affected what they saw, and how they understood their 
individual and collective experiences as travelers. 

Orthodoxies of diet operated within England in the sixteenth and early 
seventeenth centuries in a remarkably consistent way across discursive traditions 
sometimes only tangentially related to travel writing—as I hope my opening 
examples suggest. But in one way or another, all such writing, whether 
intentionally medical or not, leads back to one foundation, and that foundation 
is Galenic medical theory. In the words of one sixteenth-century author, Galen 
of Pergamon (129-c.210 AD) was, quite simply, “the father and light of Physick” 
(Guido P.1i"). His influence on medieval and early modern medicine can scarcely 
be overstated, and well into the seventeenth and even eighteenth centuries, his 


4. The term “framework of assumptions” is from Hunter 37. For general analyses of early 
modern travel, see the studies by Maczak, Stoye, Black, Warneke, and Chaney. 


5. Jerome Turler, The Traveiler (London, 1575), as quoted in its modern reprint edition 
(Gainesville, FL: Scholars’ Reprints & Facsimiles, 1951) in Monga 216. 


6. This view of travelers as both “subjects” of the crown and “subjective selves” owes much 
to Hanson’s discussion (2-12). In addition, | am inclined to agree with the distinction between 
motives for travel asserted by Monga: whereas southern European travelers tended to take to 
the road for individualistic reasons, “the common good was often the final goal of northern 
Europeans who made a journey to southern countries full of sun and history” (215). 


DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 239 


preeminence as the West’s medical authority remained essentially unassailable, 
and was only very cautiously questioned by those rare few who, like Harvey, 
eventually came to displace or disprove important elements of his medical theory.’ 

Galenic nutritional science rested upon the regulation of warm and cold, 
dry and moist foodstuffs, in order to keep in balance the body’s “humors.”* 
Hence the essential notion of a dietary regimen throughout the period: good health 
was understood to proceed from the careful combining of the four Aristotelian 
elements of earth, water, air, and fire, as they were found naturally in the various 
foods available to human beings, and as those foods were changed through 
various cooking techniques. Watermelons, for example, were considered cold 
and moist, while melons were less so—and were therefore less “bad for the 
stomach” (Grant 113-114). The flesh of fish was for Galen cool and moist, while 
lamb’s flesh was moist and phlegmatic. Methods of preparation such as roasting 
and boiling gave or emphasized different properties for each type of foodstuff, 
enhancing, mollifying, or even converting their essential qualities. According 
to this logic, Galenic medical theory admitted no essential difference between 
foods and medicines; correct nutrition contributed fundamentally to good health, 
and good health began with good nutrition. Or, as one widely read sixteenth- 
century English Galenist averted, “a good cook is half.a physician” (Borde 277). 

Especially germane to our purposes are two aspects of Galenic dietary theory. 
First, Galen expressed a general ambivalence concerning the place of most fruits 
and many vegetables in a good diet; and second, he positively cautioned his 
followers against the deleterious effects of meat, especially beef. Of figs Galen 
writes, “Figs not only have what is a trait common to all summer fruits, but also 
to all fruits that are called seasonable, and that is that they cannot avoid having 
an element of unwholesomeness, although this trait is less noticeable in them 
compared with all the other seasonable fruits” (Grant 115). The healthful and 
harmful effects of peaches, apricots, apples, and other seasonable fruits are 
constantly weighed in Galen’s system, their nutritional value measured against 
the hurtful “juices” they produce in the stomach (Grant 125-131).? Concerning 
animal flesh, Galen explicitly cautioned against the dangerous effects of certain 
types of meats and against improper cooking techniques. He is explicit that pork 
is the most nutritious form of animal flesh and that, in general, the flesh of 
younger animals is more nourishing than that of older ones. On the subject of 
beef, however, he writes that it 


furnishes nourishment which is substantial and not easily digested, although 
it generates thicker blood than is suitable. If anyone more inclined by 


7. See discussions in Sarton 90-93 and Nutton, Democedes, ch. 1-3. 


8. The best source on pure Galenic theory, and the source from which most of the following 
examples are drawn, is Grant, passim. But see also Scully 41-44; Temkin 17-26; Nutton, 
Democedes, ch. 1-3. 


9. See also Nutton, “Galen and the Traveller’s Fare” (366-67). 


240 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


temperament to melancholy should eat their fill of this food, they will be 
overtaken by a melancholy disease. These diseases are cancer, elephantiasis, 
scabies, leprosy, quartan fever and whatever is detailed under the heading 
melancholia. With some people the spleen increases in volume through the 
action of this humour, as a result of which cachexy and dropsies ensue. (Grant 


154) 


Galenic medicine in the period was neither static nor monolithic, however, 
and by the sixteenth century Galen’s time-honored medical and dietary 
orthodoxies had changed as they “traveled” across time and place. As English 
Galenists modified and domesticated Galenic theory, new emphases emerged, 
the most significant among these being an exaggerated mistrust, not found to 
anything like the same degree in Galen himself, of the harmful properties of fruits 
and vegetables, as well as a distinctly different theory of beef’s effects upon the 
human body. Fruits and vegetables, foods on which Galen looked with a mixture 
of suspicion and approval, and for which he urged caution, became instead the 
object of greatly increased suspicions. William Thomas, the first English historian 
of Italy, provides an especially apt example of this shifting perspective, which 
he offers to his readers as a kind of personal conversion. In his 1549 treatise 
he confesses to a complete change of his engrained English attitudes as he 
renounces “the heaviness of flesh or fish” and reveals that whereas “beforetime 
[I] could in manner brook no fruit, and yet after I had been awhile in Italy I fell 
so in love withal that as long as I was there I desired no meat more” (Thomas, 
History 9-10). 

Thomas’s personal anecdote can speak for several other travelers’ reports 
and medical pronouncements, often quite defensive in tone, which form a pattern 
of national self-representation expressed through the medium of food and diet. 
For example, the medical writer Thomas Cogan declared in his The Haven of Health 
(1584) that “beife of all flesh is most usual among English men [...] how well 
it doeth agree with the nature of English men, the common consent of all out 
nation doth sufficiency prove.” He avers that had ancient writers “eaten the 
beef of England, or if they had dwelt in this our climate, which through coldness 
(Ex antiperistasi ) doth fortify digestion, and therefore requireth stronger 
nourishment, I suppose they would have judged otherwise” than to undervalue 
the benefits of beef (113-15)."” 

The mid-sixteenth-century medical writer Christopher Langton makes an 
elaborate case for “virtue attractive,” that is, correspondence between the qualities 
of the eater and the properties of the food eaten. He writes that “nourishment 
is the making like of that which nourisheth, to that which is nourished” and “the 
power attractive is a virtue which being in every part, serving for nutrition, doth 
draw unto it things of like qualities, & such as be meet and convenient for it, 
as adamant stone draweth iron.” He asserts that, as a fleshy and gross being, 


10. As cited in the very useful study of O’Hara-May, 225. 


DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 241 


mankind thrives not upon insubstantial foodstuffs such as vegetables and fruits, 
but upon the flesh of four-footed animals and game birds: “in the lowest kind 
or form of nourishments, is reckoned all manner of sallets, & whatsoever groweth 
in a little stalk, as cucumbers, gourds, or capers, and such like” while “salads 
that be sauced with salt and oil” as well as “green figs and dry[...]do greatly hurt 
the stomach” (Langton G8, Hv, Iv, 17). Robert Burton, like his sixteenth-century 
predecessors, cites in his Anatomy of Melancholy a sometimes astounding array of 
ancient and modern authorities to argue for cautious, measured use of fruits and 
“herbs” (395-402). 

These English writers’ near fixation with the lowly or even harmful properties 
of plant matter is, it seems, matched only by their extravagant claims for the 
healthful properties of beef. Even while working within a very recognizable 
Galenic system, they laud beef in ways that run contrary to Galen’s own clear 
advice. For example, in William Thomas’s defense of Henry VIII entitled The 
Pilgrim (ca. 1547), purportedly a dialogue between Thomas himself and several 
Italian nobles, the speaker partially defines English and Scottish cultural identity 
in terms of dietary practices and conventions. Thomas’s persona explains to 
his interlocutors that while the Italians “exceed us in fruits, we exceed you both 
in the abundance, and also in the goodness, of flesh, fowl, and fish, whereof the 
common people there do no less feed than your common people here of fruits 
and herbs.” He concludes resoundingly with what he identifies as a contemporary 
proverb: “Give the Englishman his beef and mustard.” Context is especially 
significant here: Thomas lodges his claim within a highly defensive catalogue 
of recent English cultural advances, and he fastens upon beef as constituting 
an essential English identity, a visible sign of English forthrightness and directness 
that manifests itself in his countrymen’s need to eat “food of more substance, 
as abundance of flesh and fish” (Thomas, Pilgrim 5-6)."" 

John Aylmer’s highly tendentious defense of the Elizabethan regime, Az 
Harborowe for Faithful and Trew Subjectes (1569), is hardly a medical or nutritional 
text, but it too invokes this kind of culturally specific picture of food consump- 
tion. In arguing for the superiority of the English laborer, he scoffs at the lot 
of their continental counterparts, who are oppressed by misery and tyranny. In 
Italy, he claims, 


the husbandmen be there so rich that the best coate he weareth is sacking, 
his nether stocks of his hose, be his own skin, his diet and his fare not very 
costly, for he commeth to the market with a hen or two in hande, and a dozen 
eggs in anette in the other, which beynge solde and tolde, he bieth and carrieth 
home wyth him, no Biefe or Mutton, Veale or sea fishe, as you do: but a quart 
of oyle to make sallettes of hearbes, wherewith he liveth all the weke 
followinge.|...] [W]e live in paradise and not Italy, as they commonly call it. 


11. The proverb is not in any dictionary on the subject, but there is ample evidence in the 
literature of the period that Thomas cannot be far off in identifying it as such. 


242 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


For they have figges, Orenges, Pomegranates, Grapes, Pepons, Oyle, and 
herbes: and we have Shepe, Oxen, Kie, Calves, Conies, Fish, woll, Leade, 
Clothe, Tinne, Leather, and infinite treasures more, which they lack. (P3v-P4) 


William Harrison strikes a similarly patriotic note in “Of the Food and Diet 
of the English,” a section of his Description of England (1577). He argues that 
the English fondness for flesh and milk predates (significantly) the Roman 
occupation. Even in his day, he claims, “in number of dishes and change of meat 
the nobility of England (whose cooks are for the most part musical-headed 
Frenchmen and strangers) do most exceed.” (126). He continues in this vein, 
claiming that in their fondness for various meats in all seasons—eef, incidentally, 
is assumed as a dietary constant—the English eschew the superstitious Lenten 
practices of the Catholics and the “sundry outlandish confections” of other 
national cuisines. Harrison represents the English with their ample meat-laden 
tables as essentially different from their continental counterparts: “when they 
meet, they are so merry without malice, and plain without inward Italian or French 
craft and subtlety, that it would do a man good to be in company among them” 
(129-132). 

Butitis perhaps in the formulation of William Forrest that these intersecting 
forces of diet and culture assume their most overt expression, for he writes that: 


Our English nature cannot live by roots 

By water, herbs, or other such Beggery Baggage 
That may serve well for vile outlandish Coasts; 
Give Englishmen meat after their old usage, 
Beef, Mutton, Veal, to cheer their courage. (xcv*) 


It is a telling reminder of the difference between discursive forms and lived 
experience that these English writers’ suspicions and recommendations—their 
increased suspicions of fruits and vegetables and their embrace of foods that 
Galen had cautioned against-emerged in spite of a marked rise in fruit production 
and market-gardening in the sixteenth century. Not only did production increase, 
but botanical research, “recreational” gardening, and the agrarian sciences 
generally also flourished during this time (Thirsk 195-96, 644). But, as we can 
see from these examples, nutritional science and agricultural advances do not 
tell the entire story. The writers of English medicinal and dietary tracts of the 
period also moralized dietary theory: they constructed vegetables and salads as 
the food of the clever but insubstantial eater, and these foods as the gracious 
but hypocritical opposite to a solid, sincere English diet of meat and milk 
products. Beef, by contrast, was again and again constructed by these writers 
as a substantial, forthright, and unitary foodstuff—and it is defended against 
classical nutritional theory in sometimes vigorously patriotic terms. If beef 
consumption engendered melancholic dullness or even disease, as Galen himself 


DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 243 


feared, English writers seem to have accepted that condition as a better alternative 
to the pernicious and unpredictable effects on the body and moral spirit caused 
by vegetables and fruits. In this way, English Galenists not only adjusted but 
also sometimes radically inverted the dietary theory of classical Galenism, adapting 
ancient Greek ideas based upon ancient Greek food products and eating habits 
to conform to then-traditional English dietary conventions. Galen explicitly 
recommended pork over beef, as we have seen, but English dietary and nutritional 
writers saw otherwise. Galen meticulously weighed the benefits of different plants 
and fruits, including raw salads, but English polemicists and nutritionists often 
merely rejected his conclusions outright. 

These revisions of traditional Galenic theory seem to reduce to a particular 
cultural debate over the virtues and drawbacks of fruits and vegetables, on the 
one hand, and animal flesh, principally beef, on the other. When John Webster’s 
character Flamineo equates poisoning with salads and figs, for example, the 
playwright invokes a peculiarly English conception of dietary (and so cultural) 
difference based upon an associative principle in which vegetables and 
fruits—subtle, light fare, according to Galenic tradition—manifest themselves in 
the immoral qualities of subtlety and insincerity. Beef, as both a substantial and 
traditionally English foodstuff, became associated with qualities that English 
writers sought to claim for themselves as distinct national traits: forthrightness, 
honesty, sincerity, directness. 

Given this subtle—and sometimes less-than-subtle—adjustment of the dictates 
of classical, received dietary theory by English writers, we are right to search for 
deeper meanings in these changes. In so doing, we are presented with myriad 
questions for the historian or critic of cultural enterprises such as educational 
travel. And for our fullest answers to these questions, we must look outside the 
sphere of travel writing as it is usually defined. Anthropologists and scholars 
of food practices have for some decades persuasively theorized relationships 
between nutrition and cultural identity.'* A society’s attitudes toward food 
cultivation, preparation, and consumption are now widely recognized as valuable 
indicators of attitudes toward cultural differences, class boundaries, and even 
gender demarcations—and indeed as indicators of perceived or imagined identity 
itself. In their introduction to Consuming Geographies: We Are Where We Eat, David 
Bell and Gill Valentine rightly argue that “food practices code and demarcate 
cultural boundaries, even in the most mundane of ways [...]. [Flood is packed 
with social, cultural and symbolic meanings. Every mouthful, every meal, can 
tell us something about our selves, and about our place in the world” (2-3). 
Indeed, the study of food attitudes and practices offers the cultural critic a highly 
tangible instance of the ever- fascinating intersection between discursive traditions 
and lived experience. 


12. For general anthropological discussions, see Lévi-Strauss, Le Cru et le Cuit (esp. 9-40; 


Simoons 3-11, 297-325; Goody 10-39 and esp 17-33; Douglas, “Standard Social Uses of Food: 
Introduction,” passim, in Douglas 1984. 


244 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


One of the earliest and most influential theorists of food as cultural praxis, 
Claude Lévi-Strauss identifies cooking as “a truly universal form of human 
activity,” terming it “a language in which [a society] translates its structure” and 
through which it reveals its inherent contradictions.'? Even those who have since 
contested or revised his highly structuralist claims agree that strong structures 
of belief are imbedded within even the most seemingly universal culinary practices, 
such as preparing raw, boiled, or roasted foods, and in the most apparently casual 
verbalizations of food practices—as, for example, in Cecil’s image of “broken 
meats,” in Gascoigne’s advice to Withypoll not to ingest the foods-as-cultural- 
values of elsewhere, or in Webster’s passing reference to murder by poison as 
a “Spanish fig” or an “Italian sallet.” Lévi-Strauss’s analysis is devoted to laying 
bare the systemic binaries and the units of belief that constitute a generally 
oppositional structure of culinary-social meanings. Of these, the most germane 
to our purposes is his analysis of a nature/culture opposition that derives from 
a basic antithesis between culturally specific attitudes toward food that is raw 
(the crv, representing nature in his analysis) and food that is cooked (the cuit, 
representing culture). Despite Lévi-Strauss’s conclusion that raw foods align 
with the pole of nature and cooked foods with the pole of culture, we find in 
the English nutritional writers and the “dietary polemicists” of the sixteenth 
century the opposite associations. The highly “civilized” culture of the Italians, 
in one sense envied and in another feared, aligned with raw foods, with mere 
“sallets” and herbs, while English culture—belated, retarded, underdeveloped, 
inferior in its outward manifestations of advanced civility—aligned with foods 
that had to be cooked. 

Given their potential as broad signifiers of cultural attitudes toward the selfs 
place in society and in the natural world, these ideas of the raw and the cooked, 
of plant and animal nutrition, point us toward Peter Burke’s highly apt theory 
of a “sincerity threshold’ which varies from one time and place to another.” Burke 
argues that notions of “sincerity” always exist in a culturally conditioned way, 
and that Renaissance Italy offers a striking instance of a “theatre society” —a socteta 
spettacols in the formulation of Virgilio Titone—in which hyperbole, / bella figura, 
honor and shame, and the ever-delicate dissimulation we know as sprezzatura 
proved to bea performance that English visitors had great difficulty understand- 
ing on its own terms." 

The widespread English re-definition of Galen we have observed can thus 
constitute a “sincerity claim” on the part of certain early modern English writers 
who adopted, adapted, or reinscribed Galenic theory so as to make it favor 
English national characteristics, and in so doing, to suggest a form of 
compensation for the emergent nation and its cultural leaders. Their argument 
13. Lévi-Strauss, “The Culinary Triangle.” See also Goody 17-24 and 29-33, for a concise 


critique of the structuralist bias of Lévi-Strauss and a synopsis of the “cultural approaches” 
favored by revisionists such as Mary Douglas. 


14. Burke, Historical Anthropology 9-14, quoting here 10, 13 and referencing Titone 116. 





DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 245 


might be stated this way: the English might not be as politic, cultivated, learned, 
or wealthy as the French, Spaniards, or (especially) the Italians, but they could 
take solace in the belief that they were more honest and more sincere. Toa figure 
such as Roger Ascham, who feared the general invasion of Italian mores and 
social customs even more than the influx of Italian novel/e, sincerity was a powerful 
counter-argument against the ready wits and easy discourse of the Italians. 
Ascham’s animus toward this Italian influence manifests itself in, among other 
ways, his contempt for “quick wits,” which, he asserts, “commonly be apt to 
take, unapt to keep; soon hot and desirous of this and that, as cold and soon 
weary of the same; more quick to enter speedily than able to pierce far.” They 
are like “over-sharp tools” that dull quickly, and they delight in the superficial 
mastery that comes of “easy and pleasant studies” (21). Given the broader terms 
of Ascham’s anti-Italian diatribe in The Scholemaster, it is clear that his definition 
of quick wits draws from the same set of prejudices that his characterization 
of the Italianized Englishman does. Both social types are given to glib discoursing, 
ready with quick answers, and too apt to be concerned with others’ affairs. 
Especially when it could be joined to time-honored cultural self-constructions 
and to a more recent English Protestant emphasis upon inwardness and individual 
conscience, Ascham’s representation of English solidity and frankness in 
opposition to Italian(ate) duplicity, guile, and quick-wittedness could—and 
did—prove an effective piece of national propaganda. Although nearly all the 
important sixteenth-century Italian books of courtesy and conduct were translated 
into English, by no means did they receive universal approbation or acceptance; 
on the contrary, in many cases imported courtesy literature met staunch resistance 
as English traditionalists and moralists such as Ascham rallied round what they 
averred were core cultural values of honesty and plain-dealing, now threatened 
by “those that serve in Circe’s court” (Ascham 65)."° 

Such beliefs are reiterated constantly in the travel writing of the period, 
propped up in part by ancient humoral, climatic, and ethnographic theories 
inherited and modified from medieval and classical authorities, whose 
ethnographic theories identified northern peoples as fiercer and more blunt but 
also less disposed toward civility and politics than those of southern regions. 
These theories demonstrably influenced the mixed reception that Italian conduct 
literature received and the directions that stage representations took in early 
modern England; they complicated an already complex image of Italy as a land 
of “wit,” a term that could be turned in different directions to make radically 
different claims.'® In native English imaginative and polemical writing this image 


15. The reception of Castiglione and Italian conduct literature is discussed in Crane 505 and 
ch. 11, passim. See also Burke, Fortunes, esp. ch. 4-6. 

16. Hunter refers to Italy as both a “land of wit [...] of pleasure and of refinement” and notes 
that this characterization could easily be turned “towards romance or diabolism” (49). On the 
matter of stage representations, see Hoenselaars, ch. 2-5, as well as several essays in Michele 
Marrapodi, Hoenselaars, Cappuzo, and Santucci. 


246 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


repeatedly combined with two other important cultural forces: the understanding 
among certain influential strata of English society—typically those associated with 
court, publishing, and the theaters—that their own cultural flowering was belated 
and inferior to those of continental peoples, and an Anglo-Protestant emphasis 
on moral inwardness, often defined in opposition to the visible signs of a 
continental cultural renaissance, such as courtly codes of behavior, personal or 
societal grace, accomplishment in martial and artistic endeavors, and wider 
participation in political and administrative life." 

Cultural stereotypes on this sort of plane of abstraction have a way of 
engaging with concrete, lived experience. Elective, educational travel was one 
principal way the cultural realities of the Italian peninsula were made known to 
English writers and readers—even as those same travelers were also ingesting 
unfamiliar foods that, according to their Anglicized Galenic conceptions of diet 
and health, probably posed serious risks to their health. The conjunction of 
influences is significant: travel, vaunted by some for its educational value and 
its utility to the state, condemned by others as frivolous and even risky, offered 
English voyagers the occasion to confront their own ideas of diet and health, 
and in the process, to interrogate their own ideas of the stability and integrity 
of the subject. 

From the last decades of the sixteenth century, of course, educational travel 
and travel polemics began to assume a new social and cultural importance among 
English aristocrats and middling sorts, to enter in a significant way into this 
cultural mix. Some of these writers knew nothing firsthand about the Italian 
peninsula or its food practices; they can hardly be called travel writers at all. 
Others, like Ascham, knew very little indeed (he had been in Venice but nine 
days, but claims to have seen in that short time more “liberty to sin” than he 
had seen in London in nine years), but nonetheless felt entitled to contribute 
to the cultural debate that formed around the question of foreign travel (72). 
Still others, however, actually did come to know the cultural realities of the Italian 
peninsula, and it is especially revealing to see how their assumptions concerning 
culinary practices intersect with observed life. For example, William Thomas 
expresses a particular kind of pity for the oppressed Italian husbandman, whose 
labors supply the needs and appetites of their landlords, who take their “choice 
of the grain, wine, oil, and fruit, and then leaveth the rest to the tenant as his 
part ariseth to [...]. By reason whereof the poor man is brought so low that he 
is not able sometimes to find bread of sorgo (a very vile grain) to feed his poor 


17. There are several excellent studies of the doctrine of climatic influence. On Greek origins 
and Roman adaptations, see Glacken 80-115 and Friedman 34-36 and 50-53. Medieval and 
early modern traditions are also discussed by Beatrice Reynolds in her edition of Jean Bodin’s 
Method for the Easy Comprehension of History, pp. xti-xv; by Glacken 254-87; and most extensively 
by Zacharasiewicz 17-230. On the subject of cultural belatedness, see Helgerson 1-18. 
Concerning the complex question of early modern “inwardness,” Maus offers provocative 
revisions of the studies by Barker and Belsey. 


DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 247 


children withal.” Thomas laments that Italy’s rural poor must eat all year the 
“Lenten stuff’ that English husbandmen endure only seasonally, as penitential 
the food (History 14-15). 

Sir Robert Dallington’s 1605.A Survey of the Great Dukes State of Tuscany laments 
that Tuscan farmers eat “nothing els but cold fruites and rawe herbes; insomuch 
as the Vil/ano and poorer sort feedeth not upon flesh once a month, and then 
most sparingly[...]. Such is the wretched penurie of this Nation, abounding in 
nothing but in quaint termes, which discover their humour, but satisfie not their 
hunger” (E2v-E3). Though Dallington’s sympathies for the rural poor are 
apparent, his is not only a political, but also a cultural observation that cuts across 
socio-economic lines: 


Concerning Herbage, I shall not need to speake, but that it is the most generall 
food of the Tuscan, at whose table a Sallet is as ordinary, as salt at ours; for 
being eaten of all sorts of persons, & at all times of the yeare: of the riche 
because they love to spare; of the poor because they cannot choose; of many 
Religious, because of their vow, of most others because of their want: it 
remaineth to beleeve that which [they] themselves confesse; namely, that for 
every horse-load of flesh eaten, there is ten cart loades of hearbes and rootes, 
which also their open Markets and private tables doe witnesse, and whereof 
if one talke with them fasting, he shall have sencible feeling. (Fv) 


Coryate in 1611, George Sandys in 1615, and Fynes Moryson in 1617 all describe 

their real-life encounters with Italian eating habits, coming to the same 
conventional conclusions concerning Italian agricultural bounty, but also offering 
their readers the same broad cluster of fresh observations and culturally 
conditioned fears of its implications for Englishmen abroad. Coryate admires 
Mantua’s “abundance of delectable fruits” growing in the city and available in 
the markets. He describes a paradise of foodstuffs in the manner of his sixteenth- 
century predecessor William Thomas, but he immediately subverts his own 
observations by asserting that he could “spend the remainder of [his] days” in 
such a terrestrial paradise, were it not for the “gross idolatry and superstitious 
ceremonies” of the populace there. Like previous travelers, Coryate rhapsodizes 
on the variety and plenty of Italian foods, “the marveilous affluence and 
exuberancy of all things tending to the sustenation of mans life.” He 
enthusiastically describes the produce available in the Venetian markets, with 
particular emphasis on the seasonal fruits. He is especially drawn to musk melons, 
“one of the most delectable dishes for a Sommer fruite of all Christendome,” 
while at the same time cautioning, 


But I advise thee (gentle Reader) if thou meanest to see Venice, and shall 
happen to be there in the sommer time when they are ripe, to abstaine from 
the immoderate eating of them. For the sweetnesse of them is such as hath 
allured many men to eate so immoderately of them, that they have therewith 


248 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


hastened their untimely death. (120, 257-58) 


Fynes Moryson also lauds the Italians’ agriculture—especially their figs—but 
laments their lack of beef and game and complains, with Dallington, that mere 
“sallets” seem to sustain the people at large. The suggestion throughout his 
itinerary is that the Italians’ frequently vaunted moderation at table is in fact a 
site for hypocrisy: he dwells on how friars maintain public shows of abstinence 
but insinuates that secretly “they may easily in private break this vow of not eating 
flesh” (1:331-32; 4:75, 83-86, 96). George Sandys is equally direct, reiterating 
Ascham’s opposition of poison and mo/yas he describes the “Circean Promontory” 
near Feronia, giving particular attention io Circe’s resourcefulness in concocting 
dangerous herbal preparations and drugs (99-125). 

It would be tempting to imagine these repeated images of and attention to 
dietary difference as the particular concerns of a few English eccentrics who took 
to the road or who worried about those who did. However, a manuscript of 
1614 now in the British Library, Racconto Di tutte le Radict, di tutte /’Herbe, et di tutti 
i Frutti, che crudi o cotti in Itala se mangiano, suggests that these issues of diet and 
national identity were a matter of cultural propaganda even outside the sphere 
of English travel writing, cultural polemics, and dramatic representation. This 
elegant little work is entirely in Italian but purports to have been copied in London 
by a now-anonymous Lombard for an English audience. The author or copyist 
expounds upon the dietary and medicinal virtues of roots, herbs, fruits—raw or 
cooked. What is especially significant is that the manuscript is unabashedly 
propaganda for a Mediterranean style of eating, a complete and thorough-going 
inversion of the dietary orthodoxies of the audience for whom the work is 
purportedly written. Pitched in polite terms, befitting its intended audience of 
culturally sophisticated English readers, it nonetheless expounds upon the Italian 
preference for fruits, vegetables, and especially raw salads over meats, in complete 
contradistinction to the dominant English association of a carnivorous diet, 
physical well-being, and moral transparency. 

The writer makes considerable use of climate theory, noting that English 
conditions (he had stayed some time in Cambridge) are ill-suited for cultivating 
many of the fruits and vegetables that possess salutary dietetic or medicinal 
properties. Figs, so often the subject of anxiety among so many English writers, 
are particularly vaunted, along with seasonally appropriate salads, both raw and 
cooked. In opposition to the dominant English attitudes toward the raw and 
the cooked, he even refers in one preparation to an honest quantity of good herbs 
(26-26v, 35). 

The author stresses over and over that Italy has an abundance of produce 
that the English “nation” (questa natione) does not and, conversely, that Italians 
eat meats sparingly. His emphasis throughout is upon national differences that 
arise from or are defined by food consumption: 


DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 249 


Ne si maravigli niuno, di udire che noi mangiamo tanta diversita @herbaggi 
et di frutti dagli oltramontagi poco conosciut, et percio non son da lor punto 
stimati, il che da due principali cagioni smo avenire. La prima e che la bella 
Italia non e tanto dovitiosa di carnaggi, quanto e la francia, et questa Isola, 
pero a noi fa di mestieri ingegnarci a trovare altre vivande da nudrir cotanta 
smisurata di persone, che si trovino in cosi picciol circuito di terra. (20-21v; 
see also 1-1v) 


That the writer or copyist of the Racconto does not take the additional step 
of explicitly proposing a theory of national identity or individualism based upon 
these different dietary habits should not surprise us. Quite the contrary: it seems 
clear that by 1614 such a connection was widely, perhaps even self-evidently, 
available to readers, who seem naturally to have made the leap from the matter 
of individual diet and health to the larger but parallel question of national or 
cultural identity. One is what one eats, to be sure, but as David Bell and Gill 
Valentine’s collection of essays reminds us, we are also where we eat (1-19, passim). 
We can recall, for example, both the patriotic chauvinism of Forrest and Alymer, 
who saw in the lack of flesh in continental diets sure evidence of English cultural 
superiority, but also the more measured observations of Thomas and Dallington, 
who saw the pitiful lot of the poor in the Italian peninsula as proceeding 
principally from the lack of the right things to eat, foods that would sustain them, 
but also permit them the liberties enjoyed by their English counterparts. 

In the end, many of these anxieties, which register across a range of English 
writing of the period, seem to reduce to Ascham’s often-reiterated dread that 
“Some Circe” would transform the “plain Englishman” into “a right Italian” 
(62). The premise of this Circean process (an image as old as that great travel 
writer himself, Homer) is that there is a subjectivity within the individual traveler 
that must be protected from injurious outside influences—precisely because the 
subject is a fragile thing that can be manipulated, abased, even destroyed. The 
process of transformation implies a pre-existing, stable form, however, and several 
proponents of educational travel imagined, perhaps rather naively, that travel 
abroad and contact with others could somehow result in “education” without 
“reformation.” Jerome Turler is one such apologist who saw travel as principally 
improvement without abandonment, but even Turler loses some control of his 
own argument as this metaphor unfolds, suggesting that gain might well be 
accompanied by loss: 


And like as hearbes & fruites planted in one ground, if they be remooved into 
another or that is of some other qualitie, they grow out of kind, in so much 
that they loose either their colour, or taste, and naturall qualitie, by reason of 
the nature of the soile, influence of the heavens, and goodnesse of the aire, 
and that diverse maner of nourishment: so hapneth also that the like in men 
according to the condition of nourishment, and the aire that compasseth them 
changing them into another constitution and temperature of body, & enclining 


250 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


them to ensue other maners, and studies. By this means a Dane is transformed 
into a Spaniard, a Germane into a frenchman or Italian, namely by dayly 
conversation, use of life, & custome. (101-102) 


Educational travel was one highly visible, culturally significant way that the 
dietary realities of “vile outlandish coasts” (to use Forrest’s especially xenophobic 
term) were made known and tangible to English travelers and readers, offering 
them the prospect of changing “into another constitution and temperature of 
body.” It seems clear that the process of discovering the ways and habits (among 
them, the food practices) of others was not always an easy one for those directly 
involved in it, but as Turler insists elsewhere in his treatise, transformation was 
not necessarily a process to be feared. Likewise, in his 1625 Essays, Francis Bacon 
also averred in “On Travel” that a form of cultural transplantation or grafting 
could occur, but without wholesale change to the traveler himself: 


When a traveller returneth home, let him not leave the countries where he 
hath travelled altogether behind him; but maintain a correspondence by letters 
with those of his acquaintance which are of most worth. And let his travel 
appear rather in his discourse than in his apparel or gesture; and in his discourse 
let him be rather advised in his answers, than forward to tell stories; and let 
it appear that he doth not change his country manners for those of foreign 
parts; but only prick in [i.e., transplant] some flowers of that he hath learned 
abroad into the customs of his own country. (375-76) 


Still, it seems clear that many others—moral polemicists, writers of travel 
advice, playwrights, and even worried parents—embraced Ascham’s view and 
not Bacon’s. They anxiously contemplated the possibility of a loss or deep 
transformation of the “right Englishman” into something else—often the ever- 
available specter of the Inglese itahanato. Transformation for them meant 
compromise at best and wholesale loss at worst—of their “hard wits” to the lure 
of “quick wits,” their essential Englishness to a monstrous cultural hybridity, 
or their “natural” affinity for plain-dealing to a headlong pursuit of glib 
dissimulation. The subject was, as we have observed, a subject. 

Socially conservative writers of this viewpoint, and their readers, may well 
have applauded the claim of one later and eventually quite famous educational 
traveler, but they might have remained suspicious as well: upon his arrival in 
Protestant Geneva from Catholic Italy in the year 1639, John Milton signed the 
guest book of Camillo Cardoyn with a well-known sentence from Horace’s 
Epistles. Coelum non animum muto dum trans mare curro—“T change the sky but not 
my mind when I cross the sea.” (French 1:419). A noble sentiment, to be sure, 
but it seems that earlier English travelers and polemical writers were more than 
a little skeptical that changes in diet, being more powerful and more visceral than 
changes in the skies, might have worked deeply into the self and made such 





DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 251 


fortitude and noble resistance in the face of cultural pollution more difficult than 
Milton—or Horace—might have been willing to admit. 


The State University of New York at New Paltz 
Works Cited 


Aylmer, John. An Harborowe for Faithful and Trew Subjectes. London, 1569. 

Ascham, Roger. The Schoolmaster. Ed. L. V. Ryan. Ithaca: Cornell U P, 1967. 

Bacon, Francis. A Critical Edition of the Major Works. Ed. Brian Vickers. Oxford: Oxford 
UB,.1996. 

Barker, Francis. The Tremulous Private Body. New York: Methuen, 1984. 

Bell, David and Gill Valentine, eds. Consuming Geographies: We Are W here We Eat. London: 
Routledge, 1999. 

Belsey, Catherine. The Subject of Tragedy: Identity and Difference in Renaissance Drama. New 
York: Methuen, 1985. 

Black, Jeremy. The British Abroad: The Grand Tour in the Eighteenth Century. New York: 
St. Martin’s, 1992. 

Bodin, Jean. Method for the Easy Comprehension of History. Ed. and trans. Beatrice Reynolds. 
New York: Columbia U P, 1945. 

Borde, Andrew. The Fyrst Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge, A Compendyous Regyment or 
A Dyetary of Helthe, Barnes in Defense of the Berde, ed. F. J. Furnivall. London: Early 
English Text Society, 1870. 

Burke, Peter. The Fortunes of The Courtier: The European Reception of Castighone’s Courtier. 
University Park: Pennsylvania State U Ps, 1996. 

, Lhe Historical Anthropology of Early Modern Italy: Essays on Perception and 
Communication. Cambridge: Cambridge U P, 1987. 

Burton, Robert. The Anatomy of Melancholy. Ed. F. Delland P. Jordan-Smith. New York: 
Tudor Publishing, 1948. 

Chaney, Edward. The Evolution of the Grand Tour: Anglo-Italian Cultural Relations Since the 
Renaissance. London: Frank Cass, 2000. 

Cogan, Thomas. The Haven of Health. London, 1584. 

Coryate, Thomas. Coryats Crudities (1611); reprint: London: Scolar, 1978. 

Crane, Thomas Frederick. Itakan Social Customs of the Sixteenth Century and Their Influences 
on the Literature of Europe. New Haven: Yale U P, 1920. 

Dallington, Sir Robert. A Survey of the Great Dukes State of Tuscany. London, 1605. 

Dollimore, Jonathan. Radical Tragedy: Religion, Ideology and Power in the Drama of Shakespeare 
and His Contemporaries. Durham: Duke U P, 1993. 

Douglas, Mary. Food in the Social Order: Studies of Food and Festivities in Three American 
Communities. New York: Russell Sage, 1984. 

Forrest, Sir William. “A Pleasant Poesye of Princelie Practice (1548).” England in the 
Reign of Henry the Eighth, ed. S.J. Herrtage. London: E E T S, 1878. 

French, J. Milton, ed. The Life Records of John Milton. Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers U P, 1949. 

Friedman, John Block. The Monstrous Races in Medieval Art and Thought. Cambridge: 
Harvard U P, 1981. 

Gascoigne, George. An Hundreth Sundry Flowres, ed. G.W. Pigman, III. Oxford: 


252 THOMAS G. OLSEN 


Clarendon, 2000. 

Glacken, Clarence J. Traces on the Rhodian Shore: Nature and Culture in Western Thought 
Jrom Ancent Times to the End of the Eighteenth Century. Berkeley and Los Angeles: 
University of California Press, 1967. 

Goldberg, Dena. Between Worlds: _A Study of the Plays of John Webster. Waterloo, ON: 
Wilfred Laurier U P, 1987. 

Goody, Jack. Cooking, Cuisine and Class: A Study in Comparative Sociology. Cambridge: 
Cambnidge U P, 1982. 

Grant, Mark, ed. and transl. Galen on Food and Diet. London: Routledge, 2000. 

Guido de Cauliaco, Guydos Questions. London, 1579. 

Gniffin, Robert P. John Webster: Poktics and Tragedy. Salzburg: Insitut fiir Englische Sprache 
und Literatur, 1972. 

Hanson, Elizabeth. Déscovering the Subject in Renaissance England. Cambridge: Cambridge 
U P; 1998: 

Harrison, William. The Description of England, ed. G. Edelen. Ithaca: Cornell U P, 1968. 

Helgerson, Richard. Forms of Nationhood: The Ekzabethan Writing of England. Chicago: 
The University of Chicago Press, 1992. 

Hoenselaars, A. J. Images of Englishmen and Foreigners in the Drama of Shakespeare and His 
Contemporaries. Cranbury: Associated U P, 1992. 

Hunter, G. K. “Elizabethans and Foreigners.” Shakespeare Survey 17 (1964); repr. C. 
M. S. Alexander and S. Wells, eds. Shakespeare and Race. Cambridge: Cambridge 
U P, 2002. 37-63. 

Jonson, Ben. Vofpone.. Ben Jonson. Ed. C. H. Herford, C.H. and Percy Simpson. Vol. 
5. Oxford: Clarendon, 1965. 

Langton, Christopher. A Very Brefe Treatise, Ordrely Declaring the Principal Partes of Physick. 
London, 1547. 

Lévi-Strauss, Claude. Le Cru et k Cuit. Paris: Plon, 1964. 

. “The Culinary Triangle.” Trans. Peter Brooks. Partisan Review 33 (1964). 
Rpt. in expanded form in his The Origin of Table Manners. Trans. John and Doreen 
Weightman. New York: Harper and Row, 1978: 471-95. 

McEachern, Claire. The Poetics of Enghsh Nationhood, 1590-1612. Cambridge: Cambridge 
UP, 1996. 

Marrapodi, Michele, A.J. Hoenselaars, Maicello Cappuzo, and L. Falzon Santucci, eds. 
Shakespeare’s Italy: Functions of Italian Locations in Renaissance Drama. Manchester and 
New York: Manchester U P, 1997. 

Maus, Katherine Eisaman. Inwardness and Theater in the English Rensaisance. Chicago: The 
University of Chicago Press, 1995. 

Magzak, Antoni. Travelin Early Modern Europe. Trans. Ursula Phillips. Cambridge: Polity 
Press, 1995. 

Monga, Luigi. “Cycles of Early-Modern Hodoeporics.” Annak dTtalianistica 18 (2000): 
199-238. 

Moryson, Fynes. An Itinerary Containing His Ten Yeeres Travell, 4 vols.; repr. Glasgow: 
James MacLehose & Sons, 1896. 

Nutton, Vivian. From Democedes to Harvey: Studies in the History of Medicine from the Greeks 
to the Renaissance. London: Variorum Reprints, 1988. 

. “Galen and the Traveller’s Fare.” Food in Antiquity. Ed. John Wilkins, 
David Harvey, and Mike Dobson. Exeter: University of Exeter Press, 1995. 359-70. 





DIET AND THE EARLY MODERN ENGLISH TRAVELER 253 


O’Hara-May, Jane. E&zabethan Dyetary of Health. Lawrence, KS: Coronado Press, 1977. 

Racconto di tutte le radict, di tutte V’herbe, et di tutti i frutti, che crudi o cotti in Itaha se mangiano. 
British Library Add. MSS 9282. 

Rohde, Eleanour, The Old English Herbals. London: Longmans,Green, 1922. 

Sandys, George. A Relation of a Journey Begun An. Dom. 1610. (London, 1615); reprint: 
Amsterdam: Theatrum Orbis Terrarum, 1973. 

Sarton, George. Galen of Pergamon. Lawrence, KS: The University of Kansas Press, 1954. 

Scully, Terence. The Art of Cookery in the Middle Ages. Woodbridge, Suffolk: Boydell 
Press, 1995. 

Simoons, Frederick J. Eat Not This Flesh: Food Avoidances from Prehistory to the Present. 
Rev. Ed. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1994. 

Stoye, John. Enghsh Travelers Abroad 1604-1667: Their Influence in Society and Politics. Rev. 
ed. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1989. 

Taylor, Gary, ed., Henry V by William Shakespeare. Oxford: Oxford U P, 1986. 

Temkin, Owsei. Galenism: Rise and Decline of a Medical Philosophy. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 
1973. 

Tempera, Mariangela. “The Rhetoric of Poison in John Webster’s Italianate Plays” 
in Shakespeare’s Italy: Functions of Italian Locations in Renaissance Drama, ed. M. 
Marrapodi, A. J. Hoenselaars, M. Cappuzo, and L. Falzon Santucci. Manchester: 
Manchester U P, 1997: 229-50. 

Thirsk, Joan, ed. The Agrarian History of England and Wakes. Vol. 4. Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press, 1967. 

Thomas, William. The History of Italy. Ed. G. B. Parks. Ithaca: Cornell U P for the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, 1963. 

, The Pilgrim: A Dialogue on the Life and Actions of King Henry the Eighth, ed. 
J. A. Froude. London: Parker, Son, and Bourn, 1961. 

Titone, Virgilio. La societa italiana sotto gh Spagnuoh. Palermo: S. F. Flaccovio, 1978. 

Turler, Jerome. The Traveiler (London, 1575); repr. Gainesville, FL: Scholars’ Reprints 
& Facsimiles, 1951. 

Warneke, Sara. Images of the Educational Traveller in Early Modern England. Leiden: E. J. 
Brill, 1995. 

Webster, John. Three Plays., ed. D. C. Gunby. London: Penguin, 1972. 

Wright, Louis B., ed. Advice to a Son: Precepts of Lord Burghley, Sir Walter Raleigh, and Franas 
Osborne. Ithaca: Cornell U P for The Folger Shakesepare Library, 1962. 

Wyndebank, Thomas. “Letter to Sir William Cecil, 18 Nov. 1562.” PRO SP 12/25. 

Zacharasiewicz, Waldemar. Die Kiimatheorie in der englischen Literatur und Literaturkrittk 
von der Mitte des 16. Bis zum Frithen 18. Jahrhundert. Vienna: Wilhelm Braumiiller, 1997. 





Ares 


No 


slid Up | Ws 


WA Fee aN 
\ 


\ 





MICHEL BIDEAUX 





Les Voyageurs devant les sociétés coloniales 
(1500-1800): essai d’une problématique 


lest une griserie des découvertes. La curiosité inhérente 4 esprit humain, 

malgré les institutions ou les doctrines qui tentent de la tenir en bride, la 

nécessité d’enregistrer et de gérer le soudain élargissement du monde 

qu’apportent les périodes d’intense activité maritime ont provoque, 
pendant trois siécles (et davantage!) l’émerveillement des découvreurs, vite 
partagé par leurs lecteurs, qui y ajoutent une insatiable soif de nouveauté: une 
demande qu'il faut bien satisfaire, fat-ce au prix parfois d'entorses 4 la vérité: 
mais la figure du voyageur-menteur n’avait pas attendu les temps modernes 
pour se constituer. Tout cela est passablement connu. La découverte des 
terres neuves a centré d’abord le regard sur le territoire, bien sir, mais bien 
davantage sur ses habitants dont on ignorait tout et sur ce qui fondait leur 
altérité plus ou moins radicale. On voit mal ce qui aurait pu contester cette 
priorite. 

Progressivement l'Europe expansionniste a édifié sur ces terres que la force 
des armes lui avait livrées des établissements permanents, colonies d’exploitation 
ou de peuplement, dont la fonction était de soutenir d’abord son propre 
développement. Dans le méme temps ot elle poursuivait, selon des modalités 
plus ou moins contestables, la réduction de Pindigéne a sa propre culture, elle ne 
cessait de porter sur lui un regard anthropologique enrichi 4 la fois par la 
fréquentation avec l’objet d’étude et par l’emploi de nouveaux outils épistémolo- 
giques mieux adaptés a la connaissance de “T’Autre”. 

On en oubliait toutefois que Européen était 4 son tour modelé par le 
territoire, par le contact avec ses premiers occupants et par la relation nouvelle 
qui s’instituait avec une métropole 4 la fois distante et impérieuse, plus disposée 
4 prendre qu’a apporter. Insensiblement se créaient ainsi aux quatre coins du 
globe des sociétés nouvelles, d’essence coloniale: une réalité que ces Européens 
fraichement implantés au-dela des mers connaissaient assez bien pour la vivre 
quotidiennement, mais qui pouvait partiellement échapper 4 des voyageurs plus 
ou moins pressés, et plus portés a rechercher des “Indiens” qu’ils savaient devoir 
étre différents que des Européens, compatriotes ou non, dont ils pouvaient 





Annali d’Italianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


256 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


penser que, soucieux de préserver leur identité dans un environnement plus ou 
moins hostile, ils ne sauraient le mieux faire qu’en affirmant plus fortement leur 
appartenance au vieux monde.’ 

Illusion, bien sur: Phistoire de leur nouveau pays s’inscrivait en eux beaucoup 
plus vite et plus profondément qu’ils ne parvenaient 4 l’écrire: le désir leur en 
venait-il, d’ailleurs? 

Et pourtant, cette histoire commencait a se lire en des livres, généralement 
publiés en Europe, et dont les auteurs connaissaient d’assez longue date ces 
Nouvelle-France, Nouvelle-Castille, Nouvelle-Hollande, etc., pour en parler avec 
quelque pertinence. Et les voyageurs? 

Autant Pavouer: ils ne passent pas pour les médiateurs naturels du discours 
historique. Leur relation difficile avec la vérité* les dessert, on ne le dit que trop. 
Leur connaissance exacte des faits ensuite. Passe pour les découvreurs, acteurs 
et témoins irremplacables de ’événement, méme s'il faut parfois retoucher ce 
témoignage intéressé. Mais pour les visiteurs souvent pressés, dépourvus 
généralement d’information préalable? On leur préfére, pour tenir “escole de 
tesmoignerie”,” les indications plus sires des données quantitatives, les rapports 
administratifs, voire les écrits de coloniaux ayant une longue expérience du pays. 

Nous tiendrons ici le parti inverse, assuré que le regard du voyageur, si 
fragmentaire ou si prévenu qu'il puisse étre, n’est pas a mépriser pour connaitre 
ces sociétés coloniales. Et d’abord parce que l’existence de celles-ci, passable- 
ment stables, et intensification des liaisons maritimes, en dépit des guerres 
dont l'Europe est alors le théatre, favorise la venue ou le passage de nombreux 
visiteurs, issus des grands pays européens et, par la, sensibles a l’état de santé 
de ces établissements. Les plus lucides mignorent pas les difficultés de 
Pobservation. A. de Humboldt, qui passe un an au Mexique (20 mars 1803- 
7 mars 1804) sait que ce n’est pas assez pour connaitre la Nouvelle-Espagne 
dans sa population, son économie et son administration: 


il n’est point donné a un voyageur de se livrer 4 ces recherches qui exigent beaucoup 
de temps, l’intervention de l'autonité supréme et le concours d’un grand nombre de 


: , ros : A 4 
personnes intéressés a atteindre le méme but. 


1. Jean-Paul Duviols a bien mis en relief l'insuffisance de leurs observations: “voyageurs, 
missionnaires, marins ou scientifiques, [ils] ont porté sur la capitale de la vice-royauté du Pérou 
un regard souvent superficiel, laissant de coté bien des aspects importants qui manquaient a leurs 
yeux d’originalite ou d’exotisme” (“Lima dans la premiére moitié du XVIII siécle d'aprés les récits 
de voyage”, in La Ville en Amérique espagnole coloniale (Paris, Université de Paris III, 1984), 47. 


2. Voir Percy G. Adams, Travelers and Travel Liars, 1660-1800 (Berkeley-Los Angeles, University 
of California Press, 1962). 


3. Selon l'expression appliquée par Rabelais de maniére irrespectueuse a Hérodote, Marco Polo, 
Cartier et quelques autres voyageurs au Cingutéme Livre, ch. 30. 


4. Essai politique sur le royaume de la Nouvelle-espagne du Mexique (Paris, Utz, 1997), 170. 





LES VOYAGEURS ET LES SOCIETES COLONIALES 257 


On trouve une mise en garde semblable chez Tadeo Hanke: 


Para delinear con perfeccion el caracter de un pueblo no son sin duda mejores 
circunstancias las que acompajian a un viajero. La rapidez con que este debe formar suis 


juicios, la multitud de objetos nuevos que a cada paso distraen su atencion [...] son 
otros tantos obstaculos.’ 


Mais que faut-il entendre par “voyageurs” dans cette perspective? On voit 
bien qu’un habitant du Mexique, espagnol, métis ou indien, né et mort dans 
le pays, ne saurait prétendre a ce titre. Mais que dire d’un administrateur, d’un 
colon, d’un missionnaire, qui le découvre a lage d'homme, consigne sa 
découverte, et y demeure de nombreuses années? Ou encore d’un officier, ou 
d’un fonctionnaire métropolitain en mission d’inspection? Qui saurait fixer 
le temps au-dela duquel on cesse d’étre voyageur pour devenir résident 
permanent du pays? Sans nous tenir contraints de fournir une définition trop 
précise du terme, nous considérerons comme voyageur, celui qui, 4 un moment 
de son existence, s’est mis en chemin pour ce pays et, qu'il décrive ou non son 
trajet, manifeste dans son texte qu'il n’a pas toujours appartenu 4 cette terre, 
voire qu’il n’envisage pas d’y demeurer indéfiniment. 

Il est moins difficile de constituer un corpus satisfaisant des pays ou les 
Européens ont, au cours de ces trois siécles, réussi a implanter des établisse- 
ments durables: les noms en paraitront zn co dans les pages qui suivent; on peut 
seulement faire observer que n’ont été retenues ni |’Australie, ot la premiére 
colonie blanche composée des forgats de Botany Bay (1788) n’a pas encore 
précisé son identité, nila Polynésie, ot les missionnaires londoniens débarqués 
par le Duffen 1797 n’ont pu se maintenitr. 

Il ne saurait étre question de proposer une “grille” d’étude du comporte- 
ment des voyageurs devant les sociétés coloniales: non que la diversité de ces 
derniéres décourage l’entreprise, mais en raison de la variété des sujets abordés. 
Et parce que cette étude n’a guére retenu l’attention des chercheurs, il parait 
méme prématuré de proposer un cadre conceptuel qui ordonnerait l’enquéte. 
Tout au plus pouvons-nous recenser un certain nombre de questions, non 
hiérarchisées, qui reviendront, récurrentes, a propos de pays trés différents. 
Un discours de la méthode relatif au propos serait sans doute le bienvenu. On 
ne le trouvera pas ici: seulement des propositions, des pistes esquissées au cours 
d’un défrichement empirique, non d’un déchiffrage cohérent. 


5. Descripaén del Peru (1799; Lima, El Lucero, 1901), 20. Anne-Marie Brenot, qui cite ce texte, 
recommande “d’accueillir avec prudence les affirmations de certains auteurs; tel voyageur 
affirme que les colonies espagnoles sont un monde fermé mais donne la preuve du contraire 
quelques pages plus loin. Ces ambiguités ne doivent pas surprendre. I] est naturel que les 
voyageurs dont la durée du séjour est variable n’aient pas toujours eu l’opportunité 
d’appréhender une réalité complexe. Nombre de voyages ne sont que de courtes escales suivies 
d'une rapide découverte de la capitale. L’ampleur des circumnavigations ne permet pas non 
plus d'approfondir la connaissance d'un pays” (101). 


258 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


Le statut de Pobservateur 

Navigateur, il y a lieu de distinguer entre une liaison réguliére et un abordage 
occasionnel. Dans le premier cas, on ne voit guére de marin assurant une 
desserte entre le vieux continent et une colonie européenne qui se fat soucié 
de laisser un tableau circonstancié de cette derniére: expédition de routine pour 
lui, et description déja faite par d’autres. En revanche, une escale contrainte 
ou imprévue peut donner lieu a des incidents, des rencontres, des observations 
qui livrent des informations sur le pays visité ou entrevu. 

Cas d’espéce: les circumnavigations. La nécessité impérieuse de relache 
pour les batiments et les équipages fait obligation de prévoir des arréts en des 
pays amis et de ne les effectuer qu’en cas d’absolue nécessité dans ceux ou le 
pavillon n’est pas le bienvenu. Les récits de telles expéditions obéissent a des 
contraintes ou des sollicitations contradictoires: l’obligation de meubler le récit 
par des épisodes qui n’ont pas pour toile de fond exclusive le ciel et ’océan, 
le désir de décrire des pays inconnus et des sociétés neuves au regard du marin 
ou de ses futurs lecteurs: colonies ibériques pour les navigateurs des puissances 
maritimes protestantes de l'Europe du nord, établissements néerlandais d’A fri- 
que du sud et d’Indonésie pour les Francais. Mais d’autre part, les circumnavi- 
gations sont souvent assez €prouvantes pour que les relaches n’offrent d’autres 
perspectives que la quéte des indispensables rafraichissements et la remise en 
état des batiments. Enfin, certaines d’entre elles ont été tant de fois décrites 
que le navigateur renonce 4 entreprendre un tableau qui, pourrait, pour seule 
nouveauté, n’apporter que la preuve de son infériorité descriptive. Fondé ou 
non, ce sentiment provoque des ellipses narratives parfois frustrantes: que ne 
donnerait-on pour connaitre le sentiment de Cook sur la colonie du Cap et sur 
Batavia, qu'il visite quelques mois aprés Bougainville! Alors que sur ces 
établissements, le Francais jette un regard critique pénétrant, son rival se 
contente de dire que les particularités du Cap sont assez connues, comme celles 
de Java, d’ailleurs®. 

Le voyageur vient-il de la métropole, d’un pays ami, d’un pays neutre, ou 
est-il le sujet d’un gouvernement hostile? Se trouve-t-il investi d’une mission 
officielle (ou secréte), ou voyage-t-il a titre privé, et quels sont ses moyens de 
subsistance? Selon le cas, il lui conviendra d'assurer d’abord le primum vivere 
et d’éviter les désagréments auxquels expose un mode de vie picaresque, ou 
il aura au contraire accés aux représentants officiels, 4 la société la plus choisie, 
a V intelligentsia, et les observations recueillies s’en ressentiront grandement. Et 
pourtant, méme dans ce dernier cas, la prudence peut restreindre le champ du 
regard: les Espagnols J. Juan et A. de Ulloa, si attentifs pourtant au statut des 
autochtones et des métis, semblent ne pas s’étre apercus du fossé qui s’agrandit 


6. Bougainville, Voyage autour du monde, éd. M. Bideaux et S. Faessel (Paris, Presses de l'Université 
de Paris-Sorbonne, 2001), 333 et 349. 








LES VOYAGEURS ET LES SOCIETES COLONIALES 259 


entre les criol/os du Pérou et les fonctionnaires métropolitains’ Reste la diversité 
des confessions religieuses et des variations personnelles en matiére de foi. 
On se rappelle que I’Italie vue par les protestants Burnet et Misson n’était pas 
tout a fait conforme 4 la vision qu’en donnaient les guides imprimés dans les 
pays catholiques. Si les places d’échanges commerciaux que sont Le Cap et 
Batavia restent ouvertes 4 des visiteurs papistes, il n’en va pas de méme des 
entités territoriales d’Amérique ou les divergences confessionnelles constituent 
un motif d’exclusion, parfois théorique d'ailleurs. Mais on ne saurait attendre 
du protestant américain Delano qui se rend 4 trois reprises au Pérou de 1791 
4 1806 une description flattée des pratiques de Inquisition; du moins montre-t- 
il qu’elle a perdu de sa rigueur et que le vice-roi ne craint pas de la braver 
(Brenot 91-92). Paysage idéologique brouillé toutefois par le jeu politique: les 
sujets réformés de la couronne britannique sont ainsi mieux recus au Brésil 
portugais, allié traditionnel de Londres, que ne le sont les catholiques frangais 
dans les colonies américaines d’une Espagne toujours prompte a soupconner, 
méme 4 l’époque du “pacte de famille” unissant les monarchies bourbonnes, 
des empiétements sur son domaine réservé du Pacifique. 

Reste le cas particulier des religieux. Convient-il de les considérer comme 
des voyageurs, alors que l'efficacité de leur mission exige une présence durable 
dans le pays? Durable sans étre toutefois définitive: les jésuites de Nouvelle- 
France se voient toujours, tot ou tard, rappelés en Europe par la Compagnie. 
Mais d'autre part, Vinstallation outre-mer d’un pouvoir politique européen 
aboutit 4 la création d’églises locales qui sont elles-mémes un des instruments 
de la domination coloniale. L’entreprise missionnaire s’en trouve-t-elle pour 
autant abolie? Le conflit entre les réductions jésuites au Paraguay et les 
autorités de tutelle, espagnoles ou portugaises (1757-1767), manifeste qu’il n’en 
est rien. Intégrés a la société coloniale, les hommes de Dieu se réservent le 
droit de considérer que, pécheurs d'ame avant tout, ils peuvent jeter sur elle 
un regard distancié, qui scrute tout a la fois sa perception de l’indigéne, ses 
relations avec les églises européennes et jusqu’a l’orthodoxie de ses pratiques 
religieuses. 

Il va sans dire que la formation intellectuelle du visiteur, sa connaissance des 
langues, son expérience de voyageur conditionnent de maniére déterminante la 
qualité du regard qu’il pose sur les sociétés coloniales: il n’est que de comparer, 
4 Vintérieur d’une méme navigation, celle de Bougainville, les journaux de bord 
du chef de l’expédition, du prince de Nassau-Siegen, du naturaliste Commerson, 
du chirurgien Vivés ou des mariniers Fesche et Caro.* 


7. Voyage historique de l'Amérique méridionale (Paris, Jombert, 1752), 2 vol. 
8. Voir E. Taillemite, Journanx de bord de Bougainville et de ses compagnons (Paris, Imprimerie 
nationale, 1977), 2 vol. 


260 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


La compétence du voyageur 
Elle modeéle 4 la fois son projet descriptif autant qu’elle peut elle-méme se trouver 
affectée par les conditions concrétes de l’observation. 

Il y a lieu d'examiner en premier lieu le degré d’intégration du voyageur 
dans les différents groupes sociaux de la colonie, donc le cas qui est fait de lui. 
Il est manifeste qu’un personnage tel que le pére dominicain Labat, disponible, 
sociable, bavard, curieux, intéressé aux Antilles a l'économie sucriére, et 
recommandé par son habit d’ecclésiastique, se trouve dans une situation 
privilégiée pour percevoir la société des colonies catholiques d’Amérique, sauf 
a refuser de la comprendre en profondeur par le fait d’une superficialité de 
mondain virevoltant et prolixe. Et c’est bien ce dernier trait qui finit par 
lemporter: méme si ses relations nous livrent une foule d’informations preé- 
cieuses sur les ressources du pays. Labat est trop occupé des attentions qu’on 
a pour lui pour s’intéresser a la naissance d’une société créole dans les petites 
Antilles. On en dira autant du compagnon de Bougainville, Charles de Nassau- 
Siegen, jeune prince séduisant, instruit, dont les élites locales se disputent la 
compagnie et que le revéche vice-roi de Brésil D’Acunha exempte méme de 
la rigueur avec laquelle il traite les autres Francais. I] n’en va pas tout a fait 
de méme d’un Lahontan marginalisé par sa foi protestante autant que par un 
tempérament inquiet et aventureux qui le rendront fort suspect aux élites de 
la Nouvelle-France et lui feront porter sur la colonie un jugement sans aménité.’ 

Le voyageur parlera-t-il du pays “en passant”, littéralement, ou a-t-il nour 
le projet d’une étude sur lui? Ce projet est-il servi par une démarche méthodique 
suivie avec constance, participe-t-il d’une enquéte plus large, comme celle que 
conduit de Pauw sur les “Américains” et les causes de leur “décadence”"”? 

Le moment historique peut également favoriser l’enquéte du voyageur qui 
découvre une colonie que secoue une crise politique ou sociale majeure, 
révélatrice de ses caractéres profonds comme de ses faiblesses structurelles. 
Parcourant l’Amérique du Nord en 1749-1753, le Suédois Pehr Kalm, que sa 
neutralité rend bienvenu auprés des colons anglais autant que des “Canadiens”, 
observe chez ceux-ci, 4 la veille de l’effondrement de la Nouvelle-France, tout 
ce qui constitue une société déja bien distincte de la métropole et, chez les 
futurs “Ameéricains”, qui souffrent des restrictions imposées (pas de manufactu- 
res, pas d’extraction de métaux précieux, pas de commerce hors des colonies 
anglaises, interdiction aux vaisseaux de commerce non anglais d’aborder), les 
traits d’une identité nationale largement constituée et préte a s’exprimer par la 
rebellion ouverte contre Londres: 


9. Oeuvres completes, ed. R. Ouellet et A. Beaulieu (Montréal, Presses de l'Université de Montréal, 
1990), 2 vol. A vrai dire, sa sévérité s’exprime contre des individus (autorités civiles ou religieuses) 
plutot que contre les “Canadiens ou Créoles” dont il souligne surtout I'humeur indépendante et 
“présomptueuse” (I, 613 ). 


10. C. de Pauw, Recherches philosophiques sur les Américains (Berlin, Decker, 1768-1769). 





LES VOYAGEURS ET LES SOCIETES COLONIALES 261 


These and some other restriction occasion the inhabitants of the English 
colonies to grow less tender for their mother country. This coldness is kept 
up by many foreigners, such as Germans, Dutch, and French, settled here, 
and living among the English, who commonly have no particular attachment 
to the Old England: add to this likewise, that many people can never be 
contented with their possessions, though they be ever so great, and will 
always be desirous of getting arises from changing; and their over great 
liberty, and their luxury, often lead them to licentiousness. 

I have been told by Englishmen, and not only by such as were born in 
America, but even by such as came from Europe, that the English colonies 
in North America, in the space of thirty or fifty years, would be able to form 
a state by themselves, entirely independent on Old England. But as the 
whole country which lies along the sea-shore is unguarded, and on the 
landside is harassed by the French in times of war, these dangerous neigh- 
bours are sufficient to prevent the connection of the colonies with their 
mother country from being quite broken off. The English government has 
therefore sufficient reason to consider the French in North America as the 
best means of keeping the colonies in their due submission." 


Le voyageur avait noté un peu plus haut, avec une réelle pertinence, que 
seule la présence voisine et hostile des Canadiens empéchait les liens entre 
colonies anglaises et mére-patrie de se distendre davantage. 

Arrivant a Montevideo au plus fort de laffaire des “réductions” du 
Paraguay, Bougainville, dont les dispositions antireligieuses doivent beaucoup 
asa fréquentation du milieu des Encyclopédistes, n’a guére de peine 4 identifier 
dans les églises hispaniques du Nouveau-monde les germes de corruption’? qui 
ont amené, par réaction, le radicalisme des missionnaires jésuites aussi bien que, 
pour ceux-ci, les vices, réels ou supposés, d’une entreprise qui ne leur permettait 
pas de s’attacher indéfiniment l’adhésion des Indiens. 


Le champ de Pobservation 

Pas plus que ses devanciers participant 4 une expédition de découverte, le 
voyageur européen du XVIII* siécle ne détourne son regard de l’autochtone, 
méme s’il n’est plus aussi fasciné par la nouveauté absolue. L’intérét qu’il lui 
manifeste reste de bon revenu auprés de ses lecteurs potentiels et, sans qu'il 
soit méme besoin de lui préter ce calcul, il est légitimement intrigué par des 


11. Travels into North America (Londres, Loundes, 1772), I, 207. On verra en revanche, 
Pindépendance acquise, Charles-Joseph Latrobe dénier au peuple américain un caractére 
national: non parce qu'l serait encore anglais, mais parce que la diversité des peuplements, des 
climats et des modes de vie s'opposeraient 4 la constitution d'un caractére national (The rambler 
in North America, voyage de 1832-1833, 2 vol. New York, 1835, I, 59-60, cité in Jane Louise 
Mesick, The English Traveller in America, 1785-1835 (New York, Columbia University Press, 
1922), 300. 


12. La dissolution du clergé dans Amérique ibérique est un leitmotiv des voyageurs du XVIII 
siécle. 


262 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


“naturels” dont la différence le conduit a interroger sa propre identité, selon 
une démarche héritée de Léry et de Montaigne et que le mouvement des idées 
finira, au fil du XVIII‘ siécle, par rendre dominante. L’observation s’affine: 
au sauvage canonique du premier seiziéme siécle succédent des analyses qui 
font découvrir, au sein des sociétés coloniales, l’existence de plusieurs ethnies 
autochtones, promptes d’ailleurs a s’organiser selon un paradigme bon/méchant 
que n’ignoraient pas tout a fait les expéditions de découvertes’’: Bougainville 
distingue les Amérindiens vivant auprés des blancs et les Indios bravos, errants, 
indomptés et malfaiteurs, puis les Maures et les Alfouriens aux Moluques, les 
Chinois et les Javanais 4 Batavia, les Hottentots, qui “ne molestent point” les 
Hollandais et la “nation jaune” qui vit au nord du Cap et “leur a paru trés 
farouche”. Il faut ajouter que les progrés de la colonisation ont permis de 
mieux connaitre les naturels et de séparer, si lon peut dire, le bon grain de 
Vivraie: ceux qui ont fait acte de soumission et les irréductibles rebelles. 

Trés inégalement développée selon les caractéristiques des autochtones et 
les modalités du contact, la pratique du métissage a créé un groupe social plus 
ou moins homogéne, aux contours parfois flous, mais que les nécessités mémes 
de organisation coloniale tend a définir et fixer en une essence ferme. Nulle 
part cet effort de taxinomie n’a été poussé plus loin que dans l’Amérique 
espagnole, au Mexique surtout, premier espace continental conquis et édifié 
sur les ruines de la société aztéque soudainement détruite. Métis, demis-métis, 
quart de métis, etc. (voir MOrner): ces distinctions que l’administration des 
vainqueurs s’applique a créer et a respecter sont-elles immédiatement percepti- 
bles au voyageur? I] faudrait s’en assurer. 

En revanche, au fil des décennies, il lui devient de plus en plus facile de 
reconnaitre |’épanouissement, sur le sol étranger, d’une société qui n’est plus 
la réduplication de la mére-patrie'’. Celle-ci avait tout fait pour réduire a 
Videntique le pays qu'elle s’était approprié: imposer ses lois, convertir les 
indigénes a une religion qui ne souffrait pas de rivale, extirper les croyances 
autochtones, répandre sa culture et son mode de vie. Sur un point toutefois, 
il était patent que la colonie ne serait pas un clone de la métropole: son 
développement n’avait pour fonction que de servir les intéréts de celle-ci. 
Périlleuse exception: la “tea-party” de Boston allait bientdt le manifester. 

C’est, comme il se doit, 4 la prise de conscience de cette réalité neuve, 
émergente au plein sens du terme, que nous devons les meilleures pages consa- 
crées par les voyageurs a ces colonies de plus en plus différentes, puis impa- 
tientes. Quand ils viennent de la mére-patrie, s’ajoute a cette découverte le 
sentiment dérangeant de s’observer dans un miroir qui leur renvoie d’eux- 


13. Ainsi Colomb (les doux Arawaks et les effrayants Cannibales), Cartier (les accueillants 
Micmacs et les Beothuks hostiles) Thevet-Léry (les alliés Tupinambas et les ennemis 
Tupinikin), etc. 


14. Sur cet effort pour constituer le Nouveau Monde en réplique de I'ancien, voir infra, n. 23. 








LES VOYAGEURS ET LES SOCIETES COLONIALES 263 


mémes une image troublée: “séparés par une méme langue”, selon la formule 
consactée, les fréres deviennent des cousins et bientdot des étrangers qui doivent 
solder les comptes. Plus que l’historien ou l’ethnologue, le voyageur peine a 
déméler ce que cette différence doit au développement propre sur une aire 
nouvelle et au contact avec l’autochtone. Mais il ne tarde guére a voir que le 
processus de différenciation organique ne saurait s’éterniser et que, tot ou tard, 
il faudra couper le cordon ombilical. Les journaux de Charlevoix, de Kalm 
et de Bougainville rendent perceptible la nature instable de ces composés rivaux 
qui, au Canada, se font la guerre en méme temps qu'il s’affirment face a des 
métropoles qui ne les comprennent plus. Observation plus nette encore dans 
le Voyage autour du monde, quand Bougainville expose impatience des colonies 
hispaniques face 4 une mére-patrie qui persiste a leur interdire entre elles des 
relations commerciales directes. I] note bien, en revanche, ce défaut d’initiative 
économique et méme cette paresse des créoles, qui est un leitmotiv de la 
littérature de voyage’’ Citons — il est 4 peu prés inconnu, car sa relation est 
restée manuscrite — le témoignage de Monségur sur le Mexique en 1707: 


Le naturel des Espagnols Créolles est doux, docile et assez honneste pour 
les estrangers; il ne leur manque ny de vivacité ni d’esprit mais ils ont une 
mauvaise éducation comme on le fera voir au chapitre X: ils sont naturelle- 
ment paresseux et addonnés a touttes sortes de plaisirs et de voluptés, 
conservant dans leur intérieur une antipathie mortelle contre les Espagnols 
de Europe de qui ils descendent soit que cela procede par un effet de 
superiorité que les Espagnols affectent de prendre sur eux, soit a cause qu’ils 
voyent qu ils possedent a leur prejudice tous les emplois militaires et poli- 


tiques ainsi que les benefices de l’Eglise."° 


Un siécle plus tard, A. de Humboldt manifeste dans son Essai pohtique sur k 
royaume de la Nouvelle-Espagne du Mexique que la fracture s’est aggravée entre les 
communautés blanches du pays: “l’Européen le plus misérable, sans éducation, 
sans culture intellectuelle, se croit supérieur aux blancs nés dans le nouveau 
continent”. Le premier s’imagine “que ?Espagne continue a exercer une 
prépondérance prononcée sur le reste de I'Europe”’’. Les autres, gagnés par les 
idées nouvelles, “préférent aux Espagnols les étrangers des autres pays; ils aiment 
4 croire que la culture intellectuelle fait des progrés plus rapides dans les colonies 
que dans la péninsule” (p. 149). Les frustrations des colons 


15. Frezier déplore leur “mollesse” et leur “fainéantise” (Relation du voyage de la mer du Sud, Paris, 
Nyon, 1716, p. 227); La Barbinais Le Gentil fait de méme en 1727 (Nowvean voyage autour du 
monde, Paris, Flahaut, I, 112-114), etc. 


16. Nouveaux mémoires touchant le Mexique et la Nouvelle-E spagne, (1707-1708), BNF mf 24228, ch. 
Ver soe: 


17. Ed. Utz, 1997, respectivement p. 145 et 148. 


264 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


devinrent une source intarissable de haine et de désunion. A mesure que 
les descendants des Européens furent plus nombreux que ceux que la 
métropole envoya directement, la race blanche se divisa en deux partis, dont 
les liens du sang ne purent calmer les ressentiments. Le gouvernement 
colonial, par une fausse politique, crut profiter de ces dissensions. [...] De 
cet état de choses nait une aigreur qui trouble les jouissances de la vie sociale. 


(p. 173) 


Un sentiment semblable prévaut au Brésil, ou fait escale l’ambassade de 
Lord Macartney 4 la Chine. Elle y observe les multiples vexations auxquelles 
sont soumis les créoles, en dépit des allégements apportés sous le gouvernement 
de Pombal par la création de quelques manufactures: 


Les colons du Brésil n’en accusent pas moins la métropole d’étre jalouse de 
leur prospérité et de leur acheminement au pouvoir et al'indépendance. Elle 
a essayé, en effet, sous la domination actuelle, de les soumettre a des régle- 
mens odieux; mais, comme l'observe ingénieusement sir Staunton, il n’étoit 
plus temps: les habitants du Brésil commengaient a se regarder comme des 
enfants trop robustes pour étre étouffés au berceau. Leur courage s’accroit 
tous les jours sensiblement. Ils supportent impatiemment le joug dont la 
métropole les accable. [...] Les troupes que le Portugal envoie au Brésil re- 
tournent rarement en Europe. Les officiers civils ne sont jamais changés. 
Le vice-roi est le seul qui ne conserve son emploi que pendant un temps 
limité. Ainsi, des hommes destinées a passer leur vie dans ces conttées, 
quoique nés Portugais, perdent bientdot l’affection quils doivent a leur 
premieére patrie, pour s’attacher a la nouvelle, et sont quelque fois tentés de 
sacrifier a leur intérét personnel celui du gouvernement qui les emploie."® 


Rien d'étonnant, poursuit ce témoin, siles créoles du Brésil cherchent leurs 
modeéles hors de la métropole: “Le grand intérét qu’ils prirent a la Revolution 
francaise, et le soin avec lequel ils s’informoient de ses progrés, sembloient 
annoncer qu’ils pressentoient la possibilité d'en suivre bientot l'exemple”. 

Corollaire de cette prise de conscience: les Européens que leurs fonctions, 
administratives ou militaires, appellent en ces colonies, apparaissent aux 
visiteurs de plus en plus étrangers a la nation en formation. Interlocuteurs 
naturels qui souvent leur facilitent le séjour, ils sont représentés dans l’exercice 
d’un pouvoir certes réel, mais guetté par des formes d’autant plus ostentatoires 
que son avenir est mal assuré: ici encore, Bougainville fournit un temoignage 
précieux lorsqu’il s’amuse du gout pour les préséances qui régle l’ordinaire de 
la société hollandaise 4 Batavia: au sommet de l’édifice, un gouverneur attaché 
plus que quiconque 4 de vaines prérogatives; mais une société d’autant plus 
fragile que chacun de ces colons ne réve que de retourner en Hollande, fortune 


18. Relation de sir Staunton, résumée par Boucher de la Richarderie, Bébhothéque universelle des 
voyages (Paris, 1806), VI, 305-306. 





LES VOYAGEURS ET LES SOCIETES COLONIALES 265 


faite’’, et que les inquiétants vaisseaux du rival anglais croisent dans les parages 
de Java. 

Le voyageur a-t-il le temps de s’intéresser a ceux dont la place n’est pas 
marquée au sein de cet édifice? Oui, sans doute, surtout s’il s’agit d’étrangers 
représentant des puissances rivales; tout au bas de l’échelle, enfin, il lui arrive 
de tourner son regard vers les parias de tout ordre: esclaves ou ethnies suffisam- 
ment désorganisées pour ne plus trouver de point d'insertion dans la pyramide 
sociale. 


Le bilan 
Une bibliographie relative au sujet serait 4 coup sir considérable”: mais son 
établissement apparait prématuré. 

Il convient d’examiner d’abord la forme prise par ces regards de voyageurs 
sur les sociétés coloniales: récit-relation en forme, lettre, rapport, étude de 
synthése, déguisement fictionnel. La distribution entre récits imprimés et textes 
demeurés inédits révéle-t-elle de notables différences avec le corpus des récits 
de découverte ou celui des expéditions de conquétes? A prion, il ne le semble 
pas: dans ces deux derniers, l’urgence de |’affirmation peut étre contrebalancée 
par le souci du secret; dans le corpus “colonial”, la moindre nouveauté sera 
compensée par de plus grandes facilités dans observation et dans la construc- 
tion du discours. 

Ce regard modifie-t-il sensiblement l'image qui prévalait en métropole 4 


19. D. Lombard, Le carrefour javanais: essai d'histoire globale (Paris, EHESS, 1990), 3 vol. 


20. Quelques outils de travail: F. Monaghan, French Travellers in the United States, 1765-1832. A 
Bibliography (New York, 1933); J. L. Mesick, The Enghsh Traveller in America, 1785-1835; A. Nevins, 
American Social History as Recorded by British Travellers (New York, 1923); B. Fay, Bibhographie criugue 
des ouvrages francais relatifs aux Etats-Unis, 1770-1800 (Paris, 1925); A. Capitaine, La Situation 
économique et soctale des Etats-Unis du XVIII siécle d'aprés les voyageurs francais (Paris, 1926); Pehr Kalm, 
Travels into North-America (Londres, éd. 1772, réimp. E. Benson, 1972), 2 vol.; G. Frégault, La 
civilisation de la Nouvelle-France, 1713-1744 (Montréal, Fides, 1990); M. Bideaux, “L'émergence d'un 
ethnotype créole: le Canadien du XVIII° siécle”, in The Paths of Multculturalsm. Travel writings and 
postcolonialism, éd. M.A. Seixo, G. Abreu, J. Noyes, I. Moutinho (Lisbonne, Cosmos, 2000); Lettres 
d'un cultivateur américain (St John de Crevecceur), 1770-1886, tr. fr. (Paris, Cuchet, 1787), 3 vol.; 
Chanvallon, Voyage 4 La Martinique (Paris, Bauche, 1751); L. Turgeon, “De lacculturation aux 
transferts culturels”, in Transferts culturels et métissage Aménique-Europe (Paris, L’Harmattan, 1996); 
J. Bernabé, P. Chamoiseau et R. Constant, Eloge de Ja créohté (Paris, Gallimard, 1990); 
Concolorcorvo, E/ Lagarillo de ciegos caminantes (Lima, 1776, rééd. Madrid, BAE CXXII, 1959); tr. 
fr. Y. Billod, Itinéraire de Buenos-Aires a Lima (Paris, Institut d’Etudes hispaniques, 1962); P. 
Depons, Voyage a la partie orientale de la Terre-Ferme, 1801-1804 (Paris, 1806), 3 vol.; Th. Lindley, 
Relation d'un voyage au Brésil (Paris, Léopold-Collin, 1806); Bolts, tr. fr. Demeunier, Etat-civil, pohtique 
et commergant du Bengale, ou Histoire des conquétes et de l'administration de la compagnie des Indes anglatses (La 
Haye, Gosse Fils, 1775), 2 vol.; Anquetil-Duperron, Voyage en Inde, 1754-1762, éd. J. Deloche et 
al. (Paris, 1997); de Grandpré, Voyage dans I"Inde et au Bengale, 1789-1790 (Paris, Dentu, 1801), 2 
vol; R. Percival, Voyage dans I'ile de Ceylan, 1797-1800 (Paris, Dentu, 1803); Stavorinus, Voyages 
[...]1768-1771, tr. fr. (Paris, Jansens, 1797). Analyses et larges extraits de certains de ces textes in 
Boucher de la Richarderie, Bbhothéque universelle des voyages (Paris, Treuttel et Wiirz, 1806). Enfin, 
on trouvera dans l’ouvrage cité d’A-M. Brenot (3-33) une riche bibliographie sur les voyageurs 
européens au Pérou au XVIII° siécle. 


266 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


Pheure de l’embarquement du voyageur, et qu’il partageait lui-méeme? Celui-ci 
parle-t-il volontiers de sa situation personnelle, de son activité d’observateur 
et de scripteur? Convient-il d’établir une distinction entre les auteurs dont le 
regard se porte d’abord sur la société coloniale et ceux dont l’intérét va au pays 
lui-méme, surtout lorsqu’ils accomplissent des programmes scientifiques: 
Audubon, La Condamine, Commerson, Banks? 

Institutions, cultes, armée, activité économique, divertissements, rapports 
entre groupes sociaux et ethnies: autant d’objets légitimes de la curiosité des 
voyageurs européens, mais auxquels chacun d’eux n’accorde pas la méme 
attention. Nous verrons sans surprise Bougainville, colonel d’infanterie et 
capitaine de vaisseau, multiplier les observations sur les dispositifs de défense 
des Hollandais dans leurs possessions de Java et du Cap et le pére Labat plus 
intéressé a la hiérarchie ecclésiastique et aux salons qui se le disputent. Sont-ils 
nombreux 4 affirmer et étudier l'émergence d'une créolité dans la langue, dans 
le mode de vie, la culture, et 4 pronostiquer son devenir? 

Certaines colonies sont plus que d’autres sensibles aux mouvements d’idées, 
aux soubresauts politiques, aux confrontations armées qui secouent les 
métropoles européennes: guerres franco-anglaises au Canada, extension au 
Pacifique des conflits entre Espagne et Provinces-Unies, échos en Amérique 
latine des difficultés que rencontrent les jésuites dans les puissances hispani- 
ques. Les voyageurs leur témoignent-ils un intérét particulier, en fonction 
notamment de leur nationalité? Ce n’est guére douteux pour Kalm ou Bougain- 
ville et ses compagnons. On observe au contraire que la Nouvelle-France du 
XVII siécle parait ignorer les querelles religieuses qui traversent la métropole 
et que, surtout, les voyageurs —Re/ations des jésuites', Pierre Boucher’— s’ap- 
pliquent encore 4 en atténuer l'importance. Les voyageurs espagnols en 
Amérique latine confirment-ils sur ce continent le discours de leurs historiens 
et celui des autres voyageurs? 

Plus généralement, quel est ’apport des voyageurs a la connaissance de 
ces colonies, dans leur patrie d’origine d’abord, dans Europe qui lit ensuite? 
On sait que presque toutes les relations importantes sont traduites, et trés vite, 
dans les principales langues du vieux continent. Mais est-on sensible d’abord 
a lacte de navigation, a la performance viatique, ou 4 la qualité du regard et 
ala nouveauté de l'information? La réponse n’est pas simple. Si les voyageurs 
se contentent de dire, comme le font Rogers ou Cook a propos de Rio, du Cap 
ou de Batavia, que la place est trop connue pour qu'il soit nécessaire de la 
décrire, leur relation va-t-elle sensiblement enrichir la connaissance de ces 
établissements et de leur arriére-pays? Les lecteurs devront se contenter du récit 
de l'expédition elle-méme: il est vrai que, pour une circumnavigation, il a de 
quoi apaiser leur soif d'aventures vécues par procuration. Et les contraintes 


21. Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents (1610-1673), éd. R. G. Thwaites (Cleveland, 1898). 
22. Histoire véritable et naturelle [..] de la Nouvelle France (Paris, Lambert, 1664). 








LES VOYAGEURS ET LES SOCIETES COLONIALES 267 


d’une telle entreprise absorbent trop leurs auteurs pour leur laisser le loisir d’une 
observation poussée. II n’est pas sir, par exemple, que Cook, Bougainville 
et leurs prédécesseurs, trop heureux de trouver au Cap les rafraichissements 
espérés, aient pris mesure du ressentiment des colons hollandais envers le 
pouvoir exercé par une Compagnie orientale des Indes (la VOC) trop exclusive- 
ment attachée 4 servir les intéréts de sa métropole: sous ce rapport, l’ceuvre d’un 
romancier sud-africain d’aujourd’hui, André Brink, aide mieux 4 comprendre 
pourquoi les Boers accepteront d'abord docilement la domination britannique 
au début du XIX‘ siécle. 

Mais on observe encore que, sauf dans les métropoles concernées, les 
recensions faites de ces récits ne s’intéressent guére a image qu’ils proposent 
des sociétés coloniales. On sait que l’ Espagne a médiocrement gouté les propos 
tenus par Bougainville sur ses possessions d’Amérique, que la presse périodique 
francaise semble s’étre désintéressée des discours pourtant pertinents qu’il tenait 
sur celles-ci comme sur les colonies hollandaises ou portugaises. Il est tentant 
d’expliquer cette indifférence par l’intérét démesuré accordé 4 l’épisode tahitien: 
il occupe deux chapitres des dix-huit composant la relation, mais la moitié des 
pages du compte rendu que fait du livre le Mercure de France. Faut-il expliquer 
ce déséquilibre par la curiosité frivole du lectorat visé? Mais on observe la 
méme disproportion dans les comptes rendus du Gentleman's Magazine ou de 
la Monthly Review de Londres. Cela dit, il serait imprudent de confondre les 
intéréts du grand public (ou les stratégies éditoriales de la presse périodique 
qui le modéle) et les lectures plus attentives que l’on peut faire de tels textes 
dans les milieux politiques, commerciaux ou scientifiques. On ne saurait 
davantage imputer entiérement a l’ignorance des nouvelles réalités coloniales 
certaines décisions par lesquelles les métropoles européennes précipitérent 
lévolution de leurs possessions vers l’indépendance: lavidité a pu prévaloir 
sur le regard lucide, l’intérét mal compris sur la connaissance objective. 

Au terme, lespace colonial ne persiste-t-il pas a étre percu comme le 
prolongement naturel du territoire métropolitain, un peu diversifié certes, mais 
dont le traitement continue a s’ordonner autour de deux préoccupations: 
comment traiter les indigénes, comment contenir les impérialismes rivaux? 

Nous n’avons voulu proposer dans ces réflexions ni grille ni code de travail: 
tout au plus quelques sujets a inscrire soigneusement sur un agenda de recherche. 
Il convient de s’interroger sur la capacité de la “littérature de voyage” a proposer 
un discours cohérent sur la réalité coloniale des XVI°-XVIII* siécles et sur sa 
conformité a la vérité historienne de ce temps. Sur son aptitude également 4 
transformer en méthode d’approche les principes exposés, par exemple, dans 
la préface d'Hawkesworth a sa compilation (1773) des voyages de Byron, Wallis, 
Carteret et Cook: suffit-il de vouloir traiter les indigénes avec une humanité 
conforme aux principes des Lumiéres pour définir une voie d’approche qui 
romprait avec Pethnocentrisme européen tout en exposant la pratique coloniale 
sous une lumiére moins exclusive? En 1598, l’auteur d’un liminaire a la réédition 


268 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


du premier voyage de Cartier exhortait ses compatriotes a “provigner” en Canada 
une France nouvelle. Cet exercice de réduplication, entrepris par les grandes 
puissances européennes des temps modernes”’, engendrera en fait des greffes 
indociles, comme le montreront les mouvements de hbération qui (avant d’autres) 
triompheront dans les années 1770-1820. Les voyageurs ont été les temoins de 
Pimplantation coloniale avant d’assister au développement, a l’intérieur de ces 
Nouvelle-Angleterre, Nouvelle-Espagne, etc. a des formations nationales plus 
“nouvelles” encore, comme l’indiquait Simon Bolivar dans une lettre de la 
Jamaique (1815): 


Nous ne sommes [...] ni indiens ni européens, mais une espéece a mi-chemin 
entre les propriétaires légitimes de ce pays et les usurpateurs espagnols.” 


La littérature viatique nous a trop appris sur l’expansion européenne et sur la 
connaissance du monde qu’elle engendre ou accompagne pour ne pas nous 
éclairer aussi sur l’avénement de nations dont les négociateurs des traités de 
Vienne en 1815 n’avaient pas vu qu’elles préparaient dans les coulisses leur 
entrée sur une scéne mondiale qu’elles occupent si largement aujourd’hui. 


Université Paul-V aléry, Montpelher 
Ouvrages cités 


Brenot, Anne-Marie. Pouvoir et profits au Pérou colonial au XVIII’ siéck. Paris, L'Harmattan, 


1989, 
Morner, Magnus. Le métissage dans l'histoire de Amérique latine. Paris, Fayard, 1971. 


23. Voir, pour l'Espagne, les travaux de Serge Gruzinski, notamment Histoire du nonvean monde. 
II. Les métissages, en coll. avec C. Bernand (Paris, Fayard, 1993) et La pensée meétisse (Paris, 
Fayard,1999), 88: “Dans sa version castillane, l’occidentalisation a opéré, par vagues 
successives, du XVI‘ au XIX* siecle, le transfert outre-Atlantique des imaginaires et des 
constructions du Vieux Monde. [...] Cette construction systématique du territoire et de 
la société coloniale se réalisa sur le modéle de la duplication”. 


24. Obras completas, 1, 190, cité in MOrner, 105. 








_ ANDRES ZAMORA 


Odiseas excrementales 


n uno de sus meticulosamente documentados trabajos sobre lo que él 
denomina literatura “odeporica,” Luigi Monga recoge la curiosa 
admonicién renacentista a purgarse antes de salir para un largo viaje, 
a limpiar el cuerpo mediante una evacuacion general antes de ponerse 
en camino (“Cycles” 206-208). En U/ysses, esa parodia dublinesa de uno de los 
Aphis FAnOmicos, esa ed aa beaeay aes como dice el mismo Monga, de 





IL. 1. Erhard Schén, “Was siehst du?” (“zQue ves?”, 1538) en Anamorphic Art por Jurhis BaltruSaitis 


los viajes de los hombres (“Travel” 9), Joyce hace que Leopold Bloom inicie 
su odisea urbana tras una placentera y fructifera visita al retrete (56). Ya en 
el original de Homero, Odiseo habia podido acometer el retorno a casa tras 
propiciar el excremento letal de un caballo sobre Troya, la ctudad visitada. Por 
otra parte y volviendo al Renacimiento, Erhard Sch6n revela en una de las 
primeras composiciones anamorficas este revés excremental del viaje. En 
apariencia y visto de frente, el grabado “Was siehst du?” representa el feliz 
término de otra jornada arquetipica: Jonas es vomitado por la ballena tras haber 
pasado tres dias y tres noches en su vientre como castigo por intentar escapar 
a Tarsis en vez de obedecer al mandato divino de ir a Ninive a predicar su 
palabra (Jonds, vers. 1-11). Sin embargo, si se pone la estampa a la altura de 
los ojos y se la mira sesgada desde su extremo izquierdo, esta vision zurda y 
oblicua hace aparecer a manera de palimpsesto de la conclusidn del viaje de 
Jonas la inmensa y acuclillada figura de un hombre defecando (Il. 1 y 2). 

De estas practicas, noticias, textos y acertijos visuales dispersos se 





Annali d’'Italianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


270 ANDRES ZAMORA 


desprende la sospecha de que en una de las definiciones secretas del viaje, en 
alguno de sus incdgnitos limites 0 extremos, en ciertos arcanos de su principio 
y su fin, el componente excremental ocupa un lugar relevante. Al fin y al cabo, 
el viaje fundamental, el de la vida de nuevo segin Monga (“Cycles” 199-200), 
se inicia topicamente entre deyecciones: “Inter urinas et faeces nascimur,” dice 
el conocido adagio; “La vida em- 
pieza en lagrimas y caca,” repite 
de manera aun mas brutal el ver- 
so de Quevedo (318). Por lo que 
hace a la finalizacion de esa jorna- 
da primordial, su calidad excre- 
menticia es indudable y multiple: 
Julia Kristeva ve en el cadaver la 
maxima manifestacion de lo ab- 
yecto, de lo sucio (12); para algu- 
nos, la muerte — como para otros 
la vuelta a casa tras el viaje (Mon- 
ga “Cycles” 223) — es un regreso 
al utero, a la vecindad de las he- 
Il. 2 Proyeccion comprimida de la ilustracion 1 (vista de oeae 1 la Ona; /© al centro mismo 
desde el extremo inferior izquierdo) de esas heces, pues de acuerdo a 

la fantasia infantil sobre el parto 

cloacal descrita por Freud (“Transformation” 128-30), este retorno deberia 
producirse por conducto anal; finalmente en el homdfono “escatologia” se 
aglutinan etimologicamente el final de la vida y el excremento, es decir, el 
producto de los margenes ultimos del cuerpo, de sus agujeros excretores. John 
Donne compendia el trayecto del hombre en estas sombrias y apocalipticas 
palabras: “Between that excremental jelly that thy body is made of at first, and 
that jelly which dissolves to at last; there is not so noisome, so putrid a thing 
in nature” (231). Pero hasta mas alla de la misma muerte, al menos si la balanza 
ha caido del lado del pecado, el conjetural viaje ulterior puede tener un destino 
anal: en el periplo de Dante el fondo del infierno coincide con el culo de Lucifer 
(Inf. 34: 76-81); en The Canterbury Tales de Chaucer uno de los viajeros, el 
alguacil, cuenta el visionario descenso al averno de un fraile que descubre con 
horror que su posible destino final es el ano de Satan, el lugar donde anidan 
los de su clase; el Bosco coloca en un conspicuo lugar de sus infiernos de “El 
jardin de las delicias” a un diablo entronizado sobre un aparatoso retrete 
digiriendo y cagando los pecadores que han llegado a sus dominios. El 
presentimiento excremental sobre la vida de ultratumba se extiende incluso al 
lado del paraiso siempre que éste sea el de otros. En el anodnimo Viaje de 
Turquia, Pedro de Urdemalas cuenta a su cristiana audiencia de las innumerables 
frutas y dulces rios del cielo musulman para que Matalascallando, su interlocu- 
tor, inquiera de inmediato: “;Y si comen y beben, no cagaran el Paraiso?” (394). 
En la tarea de dilucidar la economia de esta relacién entre excremento y viaje, 








ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 271 


Monga apunta la idea de que la prescripcion renacentista de una purga como 
preparacion de la partida puede ser el correlato simbolico de la necesidad de 
limpiarse espiritualmente para asi convertirse en un hombre nuevo y emprender 
de manera apropiada la inminente mudanza (“Cycles,” 208). De alguna manera, 
el proceso no es muy diferente — nos recuerda Martin Pops en su augural “The 
Metamorphosis of Shit” — a lo que hace la gacela cuando la acomete el 
leopardo. El animal defeca antes de la huida, no tanto por miedo a las fauces 
que lo amenazan como por aligerar el cuerpo, por aliviarse, y asi poder escapar 
con mas celeridad (59). De hecho, “aliviar” significa figurativamente en 
espajfiol las dos cosas: defecar e ir mas de prisa. De hecho también, esta 
conexién léxica no es una caso aislado pues los lazos lingiiisticos entre excretar 
y Viajar son significativamente muy abundantes. En la famosa aventura de los 
batanes del Quijote, la palabra empleada para nombrar la necesidad que le 
sobreviene a Sancho es “mudarse” (1:252), término habitual en la época para 
expresar la accién de defecar pero que aqui llama la atencion por su caracter 
contradictorio con respecto a la tesitura: Sancho no quiere moverse del lado 
de don Quijote por miedo a lo que pueda haber mas adelante en el camino, 
en la oscuridad de la noche, pero tal vez por la misma raz6n tiene que “mudar- 
se.” Hay una evidente perplejidad en el uso de un verbo de movimiento, 
“mudarse,” para expresar el acto de defecar, el cual tedricamente debiera ser 
una accién sedentaria 0 al menos de una cierta stasis acuclillada. Probablemente 
en algtin momento de mi propia jornada critica habré de lidiar con esa perpleji- 
dad, pues el uso de verbos de movimiento como sindnimos o eufemismos de 
cagar es continuo. “Salir fuera,” “mover el cuerpo,” “irse,” son algunos 
ejemplos. Ante esta evidente relacion semantica entre la defecacion y el 
movimiento, no seria aventurado proponer la conjetura de que en toda 
excrecién hay escondido un viaje y, apurando la simetria, de que todo viaje es 
excremental. Esta ultima proposicién quedaria apoyada por los hechos también 
lingiiisticos de que cuando se quiere alejar tajantemente a alguien se le manda 
“4 la mierda” y de que el lugar mas remoto, el mas inaccesible, el mas desprecia- 
do o quizas el mas anhelado, es “el culo del mundo.” Ademas ese secreto 
fondo excremental del viaje aparece inadvertidamente, de una manera me atrevo 
a pensar que no intencional pero certera, en una lapidaria afirmacion de Eric 
J. Leed recogida en la introduccién a su celebrado The Mind of the Traveler. 
“Travel is a primary source of the ‘new’ in history. The displacements of the 
journey create exotica (‘matter out of place’) and rarities, as well as generating 
that peculiar species of social being of unknown identity — the stranger” (15). 
Como es sabido, y como se encarg6 de amplificar y explorar magistralmente 
Mary Douglas (35), “matter out of place” es la vieja expresi6n de Lord Chester- 
field para definir la suciedad, el excremento. Desde luego, habria que resolver 
si lo excremental, la sustancia fuera de lugar, es el viajero o el lugar y las gentes 
a los que éste viaja, o si ambos a un tiempo en una suerte de contaminacion 
escatolégica: el visitante esta fuera de sitio y a la vez descoloca, desordena, 
ensucia el universo visitado. Como también habria que reflexionar sobre si 


272 ANDRES ZAMORA 


el que viaja lo hace para buscar, encontrar 0 producir excremento, segun 
parecen indicar las expresiones “mudatse,” “irse” o “el culo del mundo,”o si 
mis bien lo que se pretende es escapar de ese excremento, como acaso podrian 
atestiguar las purgas renacentistas o el doble hecho de que la etimologia de 
algunas palabras alemanas y holandesas que aluden a la accion de viajar 
indican “ponerse de pie” (‘“‘rizan” 
(Wanner 16-17) y de que Freud 
sugiera que esa accion de ponerse 
de pie, esto es, el paso del cua- 
drapedo al bipedo, constituye pre- 
cisamente el gesto fundacional de 
la especie humana, el primer paso 
de su viaje evolutivo, y obedece en 
parte a la necesidad de alejarse del 
olor y la vision de los orificios ex- 
cretorios y sus evacuaciones (S/an- 
dard 4:215; Makstar 251-52, n.15). 
O tal vez ambas finalidades con- 
fluyan de nuevo simultanea y anti- 
nomicamente en la logica, o la 
ilogica, excremental del viaje. Una 
de las razones del continuo noma- 
dismo de los tartaros era alejarse 
del sitio donde por un tiempo ha- 
bian estado depositando su excre- 
mento (Bourke 119), pero, cabria 
argumentar, los sucesivos traslados 
suponian la busqueda de un lugar 





Il. 3. Sebastian Miinster, Cosmographia universaks 


virgen y fresco donde excretar de nuevo. 

Mary Douglass (3-4, 115, 121), Tomas Pollan (18, 25-26), Peter Stallybrass 
y Allon White (2), entre otros, han puesto elocuentemente de manifiesto la 
compleja red de conexiones que vinculan la anatomia humana y la geografia, 
el cuerpo del hombre y las territorialidades politicas, étnicas y sociales de éste. 
Cierta aficion renacentista por los mapas antropomorficos representa una 
ejemplar ilustracion de esos vinculos, y de la relativa conciencia de su existencia, 
en la época. Uno de ellos, recogido en la Cosmographia universals de Sebastian 
Minster (1544), dibuja el perfil de Europa bajo la figura del cuerpo de una reina 
que, convenientemente vestido, ataviado y coronado, se extiende desde Espana 
— la cabeza — hasta los confines asiaticos del continente (Il. 3). Se me ocurre 
que es instructivo contrastar esta carta de Minster con otra curiosa estampa 
contemporanea incluida en una de las numerosas ediciones de las epistolas 
atribuidas a Amerigo Vespucci, el mas afortunado viajero e inventor de 
América. El grabado aparecio en la edicién alemana de Estrasburgo del afio 
1509 y llevaba el siguiente pie: “Bochornosas costumbres americanas.” En él 
y junto a las obligadas escenas de desnudez y antropofagia, aparecia un hombre 








ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 273 


meando vigorosamente y sin vergiienza alguna delante de un grupo de indios 
y, claro esta, de la audiencia europea (Il. 4).' La escena constituia el correlato 
visual a las afirmaciones de Vespucci concernientes a la repugnante y vergonzo- 
sa costumbre de orinar en publico de los indios americanos (143). Mucho 
tiempo después, Octavio Paz diria de la €poca que produjo esas imagenes, que 
en ella se inicio o afianz6 un proceso que se habria prolongado, de manera cada 
vez mas perfecta, hasta nuestros dias. “La cara se alejé del culo,” manifiesta 
el poeta (29). Paz, que evidentemente se refiere a la progresiva sublimacion 
y represion de los instintos y el cuerpo en la cultura occidental, atribuye a la 
Reforma y al desarrollo del capitalismo, en las huellas de Freud, Weber y 
Norman Brown, un papel 
esencial en la intensifica- 
cion 0 consumacion de 
ese cisma anatomico. 
Norbert Elias ya habia 
asegurado que tras la 
Edad Media, justo en el 
momento en que las mo- 
narquias europeas se cen- 
tralizan, el poder absolu- 
to se consolida, se crean 
los estados modernos, se 
incrementa la importan- 
cia de las clases medias, 
crece la formacién de 
capital y prospera el espi- 
ritu racionalizador, tam- 
bién aumentan de manera 
notoria las regulaciones 
con respecto al cuerpo 
(Lal gid 2310 23 5236, 
292). Esa es ademas la 
época del grabado de Il. 4. Ilustracion de la carta de Vespucci a Soderini 
Erhard Schén, en el cual (Estrasburgo 1509) 

la cara no solo se separa 

del culo porque éste quede disimulado y oculto en el disefio anamérfico bajo 
la superficie que muestra el viaje de Jonas, sino también porque en el necesario 
alargamiento de lineas que esta técnica requiere la cara del hombre acuclillado 





1. Por lo que respecta al grabado que ilustra el texto de Vespucci, tomo la referencia del libro 
de John F. Moffitt y Santiago Sebastian, O Brave New People (161-62), y reproduzco la xilografia 
del de Ricardo Alegria (59). En cuanto al mapa de Miinster, lo tomo del estudio de Graf 
citado en la bibliografia (70). 


274 ANDRES ZAMORA 


queda en efecto increfblemente distanciada de su culo. Teniendo en cuenta 
que éstos son también los tiempos en que se inician y se cuentan los primeros 
grandes viajes ultramarinos de Europa, en otro lugar he aventurado la idea de 
que el descubrimiento o la invencidn de América habria posibilitado esa 
escision entre la cara y el culo.” Paz mismo afirma que “para el Occidente 
cristiano las sociedades extrafias fueron siempre la encarnacion del mal; vieron 
en ellas el enemigo del xo cuerpo [...] eran mani- 
festaciones del mundo inferior: cuerpo” (113). 
Pero quizas mi hipotesis podria haber sido mas 
ambiciosa. Acaso una de las causas fundamen- 
tales del hallazgo o la construccion de América 
fuera la urgente necesidad de separar la cara 
del culo. En cualquier caso, de repente Europa 
habria encontrado un inmejorable lugar a don- 
de desplazar sus instintos, un solar a donde 
exorcizar o exiliar las partes mas viles y anima- — 
les del cuerpo, siempre sin hacerlas desparecer 11.5. “Acephali” en el Liber cronicarum 
del todo como en el grabado de Schén, un (1490) 

lugar remoto en el culo del mundo: las ignotas 

tierras recientemente encontradas.’ Al ser América completamente culo, 
Europa podia empezar a considerarse entera y exclusivamente cara. Mientras 
los mapas del Viejo Continente tenian rostro humano, espesos ropajes, dignidad 
real y cuerpo de mujer, circunstancias todas que parecian refractarias a la 
indignidad de poseer un culo excretor (“Oh! Celia, Celia, Celia shits!” descubri- 
ria con horror Swift un par de siglos mas tarde [Se/ected 153]), la desnudez, la 
acefalia y el monstruoso descenso de los rasgos faciales en la geografia corporal 
se popularizaban como motivos iconograficos tipicos en la representacion, 
aterrorizada pero seguramente también vergonzante e intimamente regoctjada, 
de los habitantes del otro lado del océano (Il. 5). 


Los mapas antropomorficos del Renacimiento no sdlo suponen pues una 
iluminacion geografica y politica sino también un destello sobre las relaciones 





2. La presente divagacion es a modo de excrecencia de un articulo anterior, “La utopia 
excremental de Juan Goytisolo, escritor latinoamericano. Maneras de defecar(se) en la cultura 
occidental,” del cual reproduzco aqui algunas frases y no pocas ideas. 


3. En realidad, Vespucci habia anotado laudatoriamente, justo antes de su referencia a la 
desvergonzada manera de hacer aguas menores de los habitantes del Nuevo Mundo, que éstos 
tenian especial cuidado y discrecion en que nadie los viera cuando habian de hacer aguas 
mayores, cuando tenian que defecar (143). Sin embargo, tanto el anonimo ilustrador de la 
edicion de Estrasburgo, como Moffitt y Sebastian en su libro o Ricardo Alegria en el suyo, 
prestan mucha mas atencion a la acusacion del florentino que a su elogio, el cual es ignorado. 
Lo cual prueba suficientemente que América se convirtio en la antonomasia de las partes bajas 
y ruines del cuerpo no solo debido a los escritos de exploradores auténticos 0 espurios, sino 
merced a la decidida colaboracion de sus receptores, que seleccionaron de esos escritos 
justamente lo que querian leer u oir. 





ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 215 


analdgicas entre la defecacion y el viaje. En el contexto de éstas, la recomenda- 
da purga previa a la expedicion seria una dramatizacion cifrada de la partida 
y el trayecto, un preludio que los anticiparia. Excretar, y hacerlo ademas de 
forma copiosa como resultado del laxante, constituiria una excursion microcés- 
mica a las zonas marginales del cuerpo que replicaria por adelantado la dilatada 
aventura geografica a las diferentes periferias territoriales que se avecinaba. 
Simétricamente, y a manera de sublimacion del acto de defecar (la Edad de Oro, 
el tiempo de la perfecta stass [Monga “Travel” 26] no conocia la represion anal 
[Brown 200-01]), en esa aventura geografica se incluiria el esfuerzo por 
encontrar fuera de la metropolis o del centro, cualquiera que éstos fueran, en 
sus fronteras externas, las partes indignas de la anatomia humana, y de esa 
manera distanciarlas. Eso es lo que hace Vespucci en sus comentarios sobre 
las costumbres mingitorias de los indios americanos, o en lo que se empefia 
con esfuerzo enciclopédico el capitan Bourke, el expedicionario y erudito 
estadounidense de finales del XIX, con su Scatological Rites of All Nations (Las 
bibliotecas, segun historia hiperbolicamente Borges en la de Babel, que otros 
llaman el Universo, son vastos territorios que ha de recorrer sin tregua su 
viajero, un viajero que siempre encontrara una letrina en cada zaguan de las 
interminables galerias [86-7, 89, 94]). Aparte de otros muchos casos similares 
del pasado acumulados, por ejemplo, en The Porcelain God. A Social History of 
the Toilet de Julie Horan (6, 123, 126, 133, 136-37, 167), eso es también lo que 
sigue haciendo Naipaul, el viajero de mas éxito editorial y critico del siglo XX, 
en su augural relato sobre la primera de sus incursiones en la India. 

Ha sido repetidamente anotado por la critica que en An Area of Darkness 
Naipaul sufre una verdadera obsesion excremental. Entre la multitud de 
aspectos que podria haber seleccionado de la India, se detiene, anota y reflexio- 
na una y otra vez sobre el excremento humano que ensucia calles, playas, 
riberas de los rios, campos y caminos, poblando su relato de figuras quebradas 
por la cintura, hombres, mujeres, adultos y nifios, que sin empacho alguno y 
a la vista de todos defecan por doquier. Por dos veces un nino caga en la calle 
y un perro cercano se come después el excremento (45, 204); tres mujeres 
defecan amigable y abiertamente en una colina muy frecuentada por el turismo 
doméstico cerca del Lago Dal (69); en la estaci6n de Madras todo el mudo 
defeca a plena luz, para “pasar el tiempo,” especula el viajero (69); en Goa 
largas filas de transeuntes de calzon bajado o tunica arremangada realizan sus 
evacuaciones a la orilla del rio es después subir a sus bicicletas 0 a sus coches 
y seguir su camino (69-70)... La abundancia excremental es tanta en el texto 
que Austen Delaney moteja a su autor de “compulsive ‘turd-watcher”’ (citado 
en Shankar 153) y S. Shankar considera su histeria ante tanta materia fecal 
diseminada por todos sitios como “uno de los motivos centrales del libro” 
(153). “Hysteria had been my reaction,” dice Naipaul, “and a brutality created 
by a new awareness of myself as a whole human being and a determination, 
touched with fear, to remain what I was” (13). Ante el paisaje excremental de 
la India, Naipaul descubre su condicion de “whole human being,” 0, valga el 
juego de palabras, su terror a convertirse en o ser ya “a hole human being,” 


276 ANDRES ZAMORA 


el cuerpo grotesco del carnaval descrito por Bajtin, un cuerpo excesivo en 
orificios y deyecciones (284-85). El occidentalista Naipaul certifica con safia 
la afirmacion de Dominique Laponte: “To the white man, the black man has 
the color and odor of shit. [...] The white man hates the black man for exposing 
the hidden part of himself’ (59). Naipaul se define en contraposicion al otro, 
al habitante del pais al que viaja, como el que no defeca -- de ahi su condicion 
de “whole human being” pues no va dispersando trozos de él en forma de 
deposiciones abandonadas a lo largo del camino — 0 al menos el que lo hace 
en secreto y con todas las garantias del aseo y la rapida eliminacion de la 
infamia. Cuando se instala en el hotel Liward, cuyo propietario asombrosamen- 
te se apellida Butt, sus dos exigencias son un bafio con cisterna y una mesa con 
flexo para poder escribir (104), un util para la supresidn del excremento propio 
y dos herramientas para el acopio textual, por contra plagado de las defecacio- 
nes del otro. Ambas peticiones lo identifican como el modélico sujeto 
occidental--duenio de la mirada, la voz y los esfinteres -- frente a todo lo que 
le rodea. Naipaul no solo es el que no defeca, sino el que tiene la capacidad 
y la prerrogativa de ver a otros defecar y de contar con asco lo que ha visto. 
En un momento del texto, afirma que los propios hindues literalmente no ven 
ni el excremento que inunda las calles ni las interminables figuras acuclilladas, 
hasta el punto de que incluso negarian su existencia como prueba el hecho de 
que estén notoriamente ausentes de conversaciones, novelas, peliculas y 
documentales (70, 213). Por supuesto se podria argiir que la cultura y la 
literatura occidental en la que Naipaul se incardina omite sistematica y flagrante- 
mente el acto de la defecacion propia, aunque éste se realice en la mayor 
intimidad y con la maxima limpieza, pero de alguna manera esta ausencia seria 
absolutamente ldgica en la economia profunda de su relato, pues el occidental 
es justamente el que no defeca y esa caracteristica es una de las principales sefias 
de identidad que lo diferencian, o lo autoconstruyen como diferente, frente al 
otro. En Juan sin Tierra de Goytisolo, el bisabuelo del protagonista -- blanco, 
burgués y espafiol -- ensaya junto a su familia el ultimo invento de la tecnologia 
britanica, un wafercloset astutamente instalado bajo lujosos sillones, para demos- 
trar a la multitud colonial cubana que han convocado al efecto la naturaleza 
invisible, inodora y silenciosa de sus defecaciones, o mejor, dado el feliz 
resultado del artilugio, de sus no-defecaciones (15-24). Mas adelante en el 
texto, la voz de un monarca, emparentado tal vez con la realeza del mapa 
europeo de Sebastian Miinster, anuncia esta verdad inconcusa con pompa 
ridicula: 


el fundamento cientifico de nuestra indiscutible aunque benévola superio- 
ridad [se basa] en un quintaesenciado y primoroso sistema digestivo que 
excluye ab initio cualquier emisiOn visceral hedionda o abyecta evacuaci6n 
de sentina : o acaso creen [...]que mi real persona y la de los miembros de 
su reverenciada familia defecan en apestosas zanjas y limpian luego su 
horado con una lata de agua? [...]mientras el ojo republicano y plebeyo 
secreta Corrupcion e impureza, el de vuestra dinastia exhala armonia y 


fragancia. (191-93) 








ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 277 


En estas palabras de la augusta persona se cifra lo que el mismo Goytisolo 
llama el “pensamiento reaccionario,” “edificado siempre sobre una ciénaga de 
temores, repulsas y odios [...] a la promiscuidad (goce sexual), lo inadmisible 
y ajeno (razas, culturas diferentes) y la realidad traumatica del ano y la atraccion 
latente hacia lo fecal (sodomia)” (“Quevedo” 133). Otros lo llamarian sencilla- 
mente la normalidad ortodoxa del discurso occidental. 

George Yidice sefiala lacidamente como a lo largo de la historia y a lo 
ancho de la geografia las diferentes practicas alimentarias han servido para 
discriminar culturas, grupos e identidades (15). Sin embargo la civilizacion 
occidental no sélo ha fundamentado sus sistemas de clasificacion humana en 
las maneras de comer, sino también en las de cagar. De manera casi sarcastica, 
la civilizaci6n occidental habria empleado por tanto el tipico método animal 
de acotar sus territorios: orinando o defecando, mediante fronteras excremen- 
tales. Los relatos de viaje—literarios, etnograficos o de otra laya — han sido los 
artifices de esa taxonomia escatologica en la cual el europeo se presenta o 
constituye como el que no defeca o el que lo hace tan en privado, tan en 
silencio o tan eufemisticamente que es como si no defecara, y esto incluso en 
épocas en las que todavia se arrojaba el excremento diario a las calles del viejo 
continente o en las que sus monatcas recibian embajadores sentados en su real 
retrete. Entre las muchas perplejidades tedricas de este hecho, quiero destacar 
la ironia de que el que no evacua, el que a consecuencia de su viaje se presenta 
como tal, podria ser considerado constitucionalmente como el que no se ha 
movido pues defecar es el viaje primordial. Deponer excremento, que ademas 
en la fantasia infantil se confunde con el parto, supone en la practica discursiva 
freudiana la separacién de algo propio, el partir de uno mismo, el dejar atras 
un pedazo de nosotros (“Transformation” 130; “From” 81, 84). La purga 
renacentista seria de nuevo una escenificacion, un ensayo general, del viaje. 
Y si Naipaul o sus iguales son los que no defecan también habrian de ser en 
cierto sentido los no-viajeros. Cabria descubrir una esclarecedora e hiperbolica 
caricatura de este hecho en la novela de Ann Tyler The Acctdental Tourist. En 
este texto, su autora inflige una personalidad anal, causada de acuerdo a Freud 
por una estricta represiOn de las pulsiones excrementales y caracterizada por 
el orden, la limpieza, la escrupulosidad y la parsimonia (“Caracter” 56, 58; 
Makestar 42-3), a Macon Leary, el protagonista de la obra, el personaje que 
escribe libros de viaje sobre como ir a un sitio sin sentir que uno ha salido de 
casa, sobre cOmo viajar sin viajar en realidad. Apropiadamente, el logo que 
identifica sus libros es un sill6n con alas (10-11, 85-6). Sin embargo, de la 
misma manera que el sujeto de semejante personalidad no solo adolece de una 
excesiva represiOn excremental sino que, como causa de esto, en él o en su 
pasado se oculta también un intenso erotismo anal (Freud, “Transformation” 
127; “Caracter” 56-8), tras las protestas y deseos occidentales de presentarse 
frente al otro como el que no evacua, el viajero europeo constituye en el fondo 
el defecador, en potencia 0 en acto, por excelencia. Las paradojas que aquejan 
a Naipaul y a Macon Leary se compadecerian perfectamente con el mencionado 
uso de verbos movimiento para una actividad aparentemente estatica como la 


278 ANDRES ZAMORA 


de defecar, con la combinacion en esa actividad de movilidad y stasis, de cambio 
y permanencia. Excretar es mudarse y no moverse a la vez. El sillon alado 
que identifica emblematicamente los libros de Macon Leary es en verdad un 
trono, disimula un retrete donde — adelanto ~ probablemente se defeca al otro 
y aun a uno mismo. De otro lado, esa ambigtiedad Ontica de la accion de 
defecar es similar a la sufrida por su producto, el excremento, y muy semejante 
a las consecuencias del acto de viajar, el cual se convierte en un prodigioso 
artefacto de produccion excremental. Lo mismo que defecar es mudarse sin 
moverse de lugar, el excremento es una curiosa sustancia que esta a medio 
camino entre lo propio y lo ajeno, lo de dentro y lo de fuera. La nota mas 
caracteristica del comercio establecido entre el excretor y el excremento es la 
confusion ontologica que embarga al primero ante la contemplacion de lo 
segundo. Martin Pops lo resume con concision: “Shit, the first extension of 
the self, is also the first instancing of the other” (50). Juan Goytisolo recurre 
a Leach y Larry Grimes al principio de su estudio sobre el excremento en 
Quevedo para incidir en la misma idea: las “deyecciones corporales” pertenecen 
a las “categorias intermedias entre el ‘yo’ ‘lo mio,’ y el ‘no yo,’ ‘lo ajeno” (119- 
20). En un analisis ultimo, el viajero, aunque intente evitarlo o negarlo, esta 
abocado a contemplar al otro, y a través de éste a si mismo, bajo la especie de 
estas categorias intermedias excrementales en las que se confunden lo propio 
y lo ajeno, lo de dentro y lo de fuera, el “yo” y el “no-yo.” En el subsuelo de 
esas “contact zones” de las que habla Mary Louise Pratt (4), esos territorios 
liminales en los que a consecuencia del viaje se mezclan gentes y culturas 
diversos, se acumulan ingentes depdsitos fecales. 

En intima conexion con estas caracteristicas intrinsecamente escatoldgicas 
de todo viaje como reverso de la ineluctable cualidad viajera de toda excrecion, 
la aventura geografica del occidental adquiere en numerosas ocasiones una 
atiadida cualidad excremental debido a que por debajo de la necesidad de la 
vision del otro como el que evacua y, complementariamente, de la concepcion 
de uno mismo como el que no lo hace, por detras de la declarada repugnancia 
ante las costumbres de aquél y del complaciente orgullo ante la continencia y 
el comportamiento propios, se recela, segun sugtere Stephen Greenblatt de 
Bourke y su libro (63) o Stallybrass y White de manera general (5-6), el deseo 
de ver cagar al otro, una especie de “coproescofilia,” asi como la secreta y 
anhelada seguridad de que igual que ese otro esa mezcla de lo ajeno y de lo 
propio—el viajero también puede todavia hacerlo, también puede atin cagar. 
El viajero va a tierras de barbaros a civilizar y a constituirse é]1 mismo como 
civilizado, como no sujeto a las indignidades de la excrecion, pero a la vez va 
oscuramente en busca de excremento para disfrutar de su contemplacion y para 
asegurarse la posibilidad de recuperar él mismo su condicion de excretor, de 
regresar Como en una maquina del tiempo a los placeres anales de la infancia 
ante el vislumbre de pueblos que viven en estadios anteriores de cultura. 
“Nostalgie de la merde,” es la expresion de Greenblatt con respecto a Bourke (63), 
aunque también se podria denominar codicia excremental: tras las declaraciones 
de civilizar o cristianizar al otro, el habitante americano por ejemplo, el europeo 


ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 2G 


busca su oro, 0 lo que es lo mismo, de acuerdo a las asociaciones tradicionales 
o psicologicas entre el preciado mineral y las materias fecales advertidas por 
Chevalier y Gheerbrant (361), Cirlot (94), Freud (“From” 82; “Transforma- 
tion” 131), Brown (191, 254, 281, 287-88), Laporte (33, 39) y otros, va en pos 
de su excremento. “Letrina fabulosa,” llama Octavio Paz a la América del 
descubrimiento (32) y Carlos Fuentes, para descubrir el truco, coloca frente 
al altar del Escorial en Terra Nostra un cofre “con los tesoros del mundo nuevo 
transmutados en excremento” (880). 

El fenodmeno descrito anteriormente se manifiesta patente o latentemente 
en multitud de relatos de viajeros occidentales, pero en Naipaul ocurre de una 
manera extremada y ejemplar dada su condicion de descendiente de hindues 
occidentalizado que va a buscar en la tierra de sus ancestros esas “zonas 
oscuras” de su infancia de las que, afios mas tarde, hablara en su discurso de 
aceptacion del premio Nobel (483). Un poco antes de concluir su libro el 
ilustre aventurero declara: “In a year I had not learned acceptance. I had 
learned my separateness from India, and was content to be a colonial, without 
a past, without ancestors” (252). Sin embargo, al principio del texto, refiriéndo- 
se a otros pero en toda ldgica también a si mismo, habia sentenciado: “No 
Indian is far from his origins” (55). Y su caracter marginal, fatalmente entre 
medias, inclasificable, constantemente fuera de lugar, reacio a la fijacion 
identitaria, esto es, abyecto en la definicion de Kristeva (12), excremental, todo 
a causa de su viaje presente y de los anteriores de muchos otros, queda 
sancionado con esta otra afirmacion: “I was not English or Indian” (98). El 
viaje de Naipaul es simultaneamente una huida y una busqueda del excremento, 
una completa y antindmica odisea escatolégica en torno a la red de paradojas 
yo-otro, superficie-fondo, ausencia-ostentacion de la excrecion, asco-atracciOn 
por el acto de defecar. 

En el haz de libros de la estirpe del de Naipaul el yo autorial se define 
como el que no evacua y el que siente repugnancia por la excrementalidad 
supuestamente esencial del otro asi como miedo de convertirse en él y una 
segura determinacion de no hacerlo. En su cara oculta o inconsciente, en el 
trasero por asi decirlo del texto, cabe encontrar lo contrario, deseos y anhelos 
excrementales, pero lo mas asequible e inmediato es precisamente esa fachada. 
Sin embargo, existen otros relatos de viaje alternativos que semejan establecer 
un dialogo intertextual con los de Naipaul y otros pues hacen aflorar a su 
misma superficie lo que en éstos yace escondido en sus intersticios mas oscuros. 
Aludiré brevemente a tres de estas obras. La primera, Gu/hver’s Travels, un libro 
calificado por Shankar como anticolonialista (50), perpetra una exhaustiva y 
artera subversion de la tipica adscripcion al salvaje de otras tierras de una 
excrementalidad animal frente al europeo. En el cuarto viaje, Lemuel Gulliver 
encuentra al proverbial otro, excremental y nauseabundo, para comprobar mas 
adelante con horror que ésos otros que le arrojan sus heces desde lo alto de 
un arbol (445), esos Yahoos, son la especie a la que pertenece el yo, son ese 
mismo yo. El verdadero otro en la fantasia viajera de Swift, el supuesto animal, 
el caballo o Houyhnhnm, resulta un prodigio de limpieza y control corporal 


280 ANDRES ZAMORA 


con relacion al visitante y los de su clase. Aunque la exhibicion de incidentes 
defecatorios (222-23) y de alardes urinarios (218, 254) en la cronica del viaje 
a Lilliput pudieran hacer sospechar un cierto placer u orgullo escatoldgico, en 
la cronica de los viajes de Gulliver, y en el resto de la obra de Swift, se contem- 
pla normalmente con terror el descubrimiento, expuesto en plena desnudez, 
de la naturaleza excremental de todo hombre o toda mujer, incluidos de manera 
mas prominente que otros los habitantes de la sefiera y todopoderosa Europa. 
Por contra, en otra ficcion de viajes muy posterior, en una imaginacion erotico- 
viajera, en Cruelle Zelande, ese mismo descubrimiento se convierte en una 
inagotable fuente de placeres, liberaciones y felicidades. 

Cruelle Zelande, publicada de manera anonima en 1978 en Francia, finge 
el diario de una dama inglesa de la época victoriana que ha de acompafiar a su 
marido en una expedicion militar a Australia, a “esos bajos fondos del Imperio” 
(24), como dice ella misma, a su parte mas posterior. Capturada por los nativos, 
la mujer que en Inglaterra sonaba con un mundo donde la gente estuviera 
siempre totalmente vestida (22) y que al principio se avergiienza de confesar 
sus necesidades corporales (27), va desvelando, en un noviciado escatologico 
y sexual, su propia naturaleza defecatoria y sus deseos excrementales: los gozos 
de cagar sola o junto a otras mujeres, los placeres sentidos tras la administraci6n 
de las irrigaciones a las que la someten sus captores y cuyas seguras consecuen- 
cias son enormes explosiones evacuatorias que la dejan limpia y satisfecha (103, 
136), la delicia de insertar un dedo en la vagina de una mujer en tanto ésta 
expulsa por el ano la sustancia lechosas de las lavativas (122), el intenso deseo 
de contemplar la vulva de otra mujer mientras orina (46), el éxtasis de orinar 
ella misma desenfrenadamente y delante de todos a causa de la habil presion 
de las manos de sus instructoras indigenas sobre el punto correcto de su vientre. 
“Mientras que las jovenes gritaban mas que nunca y reian de buen grado,” 
cuenta la narradora, “me abandoné, oriné durante un tiempo interminable. Me 
sentia como una monstruosa yegua en un prado inglés. En esos pocos segun- 
dos comprendi la felicidad de ser un animal. [...] En realidad me sentia feliz de 
ser un animal, un objeto” (37). Si Gulliver aspiraba al aseo y la continencia 
de los Houyhnhnms, asqueado ante su condicion excremental gua hombre y 
europeo, la narradora de Cruelle Ze/ande se transforma gozosamente en un 
caballo que por el contrario se derrama en deyecciones sin freno alguno. El 
texto anonimo, lleno por lo demas de topicos y trampas colonialistas, pone al 
desnudo las dimensiones excrementales escondidas en el reverso de muchos 
otros viajes europeos y de las cronicas escritas a su socaire, enfatizando ademas 
en su conclusion la impuesta necesidad de ocultarlas. De regreso a Inglaterra, 
la narradora confiesa en una sola frase la cualidad fecal de su texto y el impera- 
tivo de mantener ese hecho en secreto: “He ensuciado todas estas paginas a 
escondidas” (242). Si Sarduy, reflexionando sobre la obra de Goytisolo 
establece una ecuacion de semejanza entre escribir y defecar (54), a la luz de 
ciertos relatos de viaje se podria matizar que en éstos esa similitud alcanza una 
de sus maximas expresiones. 

E] hallazgo y el explicito reconocimiento del caracter fecal del viaje y el 








ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 281 


viajero occidentales, abominables en Swift y placenteros en Cruelle Zelande, se 
queda un poco a medio camino entre ambos extremos en On the Road de Jack 
Kerouac. Hacia el final del texto, casi en la conclusion de su dilatado peregrina- 
je, en el mero “vientre ecuatorial del mundo” (280), en la ciudad de México, 
“the great and final wild uninhibited Fellahin-childlike city that we knew we 
would find at the end of the road” (302), el narrador protagonista se ve 
sorprendido por una fulminante diarrea disentérica que, dolorosa e iluminadora, 
hace culminar de alguna manera su periplo (302). El exultante techo del mundo 
— “TI was [...] on a roof on the world” (302) — coincide con las miserias de su 
parte mas baja, de un ano que se vierte enfebrecidamente sin remedio. 

Es obvio que la ostentacion de esta excrementalidad europea en los textos 
anteriores podria ser atribuido por algunos a que en todos estos viajes sus 
autores o héroes son ya previamente liminales, tautologicamente excrementales: 
un irlandés, una mujer victoriana fingida por un francés anonimo de incdgnito 
sexo y género en la segunda mitad del XX y Sal Paradise, un vagabundo 
impenitente en los arrabales de la sociedad americana. Sus casos serian 
teratolégicos con respecto a la normalidad. Cabe replicar, claro esta, que esa 
marginalidad no anula la validez general de su descubrimiento sino que mas 
bien explica la posibilidad de llevarlo a cabo y de expresarlo sin ambages. No 
obstante, la misma acusacion revela otra de las aristas excrementales del viaje 
occidental: la consideraciOn del expedicionario europeo por parte de los que 
se quedan como un indeseable detritus expulsado 0 evacuado por la metrdpolis 
en una vasta operacion de purificacion o purga social. 

Hablando del primer viaje de Colon al nuevo mundo, Severo 
Sarduy escribe jocosa y orgullosamente que fue realizado por “tres carabelas 
ca(r)gadas de indeseables,” vale decir que fue protagonizado por evacuaciones, 
excrementos del “cuerpo de la metropoli y su maquina opresiva” (54). De otro 
lado, es interesante recordar un comentario de Eric Graff sobre el inminente 
viaje de Pablos a las Indias en la conclusion del Buscén, una obra cuya obsesién 
excremental ya habia sido destacada por Juan Goytisolo y que, incidentalmente, 
pertenece a un género que ostenta entre sus rasgos fundamentales su caracter 
itinerante y sus excesos escatologicos: la novela picaresca. Dice Graff: “Thus 
Spanish collectivity performs a kind of ‘cultural bowel movement’ in which it 
evacuates its moral filth, the upstart or the class of greedy conversos” (66). 
Como resultado de estas operaciones América, ademas de otros territorios, 
habria adquirido de nuevo una intensa dimension excremental intensificada 
en este caso atin més a raiz del mestizaje entre lo que podriamos llamar el 
inherente tesoro fecal aut6ctono de las nuevas tierras -- segun la percepcion 
europea -- y la masa deletérea excretada por los centros metropolitanos. El 
resultado de ese mestizaje seria una marginalidad o excrementalidad a la 
segunda potencia: las heces expelidas por Espafia habrian engendrado con la 
ayuda del habitante local un linaje todavia mas periférico a la sociedad peninsu- 
lar. Teniendo esto en cuenta, tal vez habria que concluir que la ecuacién 
metaf6rica de la madre patria y su prole americana no es la que mejor expresa 
la relacion entre Espafia, o Europa, y sus antiguas colonias. A juzgar por 


282 ANDRES ZAMORA 


ciertos textos, la pareja excretor-excremento, con valor critico 0 apologético, 
seria un simbolo mas exacto de esa dinamica transatlantica. Una vez mas 
recuerdo la afirmacion freudiana de que en una cierta etapa de la infancia 
establecemos una identificacion, una confusion, entre defecar y parir, entre el 
paquete fecal expulsado y el recién nacido (’” Transformation” 128). Pero 
independientemente de la consideracion de una excrementalidad previa u 
original (como en “pecado original”) 
del viajero o de la consecucion de una 
sociedad mestiza fecal tras la expedi- 
cidn, la idea de la colonia como defe- 
cacion de la metropolis o del lugar 
visitado como deposicion del visitante 
subyace a muchos relatos de viaje. La 
India de Naipual, los paises sobre los 
que informa Macon Leary, el México 
de Sal Paradise o las antipodas de Cra- 
elle Zelande no son otra cosa que disi- 
muladas deyecciones— partos— de sus 
autores (“He ensuciado todas estas 
paginas a escondidas” [242]), oportuna 
figuracion, confirmacion o revelacion 
de los vinculos entre la metropolis y 
la colonia o entre los centros y las periferias. Esta concepcion habria sido 
anunciada estruendosamente por Rabelais cuando hace que Pantagruel cree 
de un descomunal pedo a “cinquante et troys mille petitz hommes, nains et 
contrefaictz” y de una pedorreta a “autant de petites femmes acropies.” El 
gigante de Rabelais los llamara “pygmées,” en la imaginacion de la época 
habitantes de Africa o Asia, los llevara a vivir a una isla y los calificara de 
valerosos por tener el corazon “prés de la merde” (Pantagrue/ 27). También la 
certifica, plastica y alegoricamente, cierto orinal inglés del duque de Wellington 
que, como si hubiera sido excretado alli por su usuario, dibuja en su fondo el 
inequivoco rostro — nariz achatada, labios abultados y pelo rufo — de un 
salvaje africano (Il. 5). 

A pesar de la aparente indignidad de conceptualizar a las colonias de 
materia fecal per se o excrecion de la metropolis, en un articulo anterior ya 
mencionado he intentado mostrar por extenso que en Juan sin Tierra, un peculiar 
y diarreico texto de viajes, Juan Goytisolo hace una vindicacion de la identidad 
excremental de Latinoamérica tras subvertir el esquema de valores tradicional. 
Lejos de provocar rechazo, un conjunto de prestigiosa voces locales — Sarduy, 
Fuentes, Oviedo -- ha considerado propio el texto de Goytisolo, refrendando, 
en consecuencia, la felicidad de la figura excremental como un tropo cultural 
legitimo de esa América. Dentro de este contexto, no es extrafio que, segun 
ha recontado René Prieto (123-29), Florentino Ariza, el estrefiido cronico de 
E/ amor en los tiempos del colera de Garcia Marquez, se libere por un instante de 
su forzada continencia tras presentir la obtencidn del largamente anhelado amor 





Il. 5. Fondo del orinal del Duque de Wellington. 


————e 





ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 283 


de Fermina Daza y el final feliz de su historia. Florentino se caga incontenible- 
mente en un éxtasis de felicidad al arrancar el coche tras haber sido recibido 
en su casa por la mujer y se embarca al poco tiempo con ella en un crucero 
sentimental, apasionado y sin fin, arriba y abajo del rio Magdalena, abordo del 
Nueva Fidelidad, viaje que constituye una recuperacion, aunque precaria, del 
paraiso original americano (Garcia 386-443). Como tampoco es raro que 
Vargas Llosa ejecute una excrementalizacion de uno de los miticos viajes del 
occidente, el de Teseo, que ensucie minuciosa y alegremente la antigiiedad 
clasica, en un libro posterior. En Lituma en los Andes, la variante andina del 
minotauro es Salcedo, un viajante de comercio que se convierte en pishtaco, 
monstruo que se refugia en cuevas y asalta a otros “viajantes,” “arrieros,” y 
“ migrantes” a los que después trincha por el ano, asa vivos y se come (151). 
El papel de Teseo lo hace el narig6n Timoteo Fajardo que exige que una virgen 
le orine en el pecho como sortilegio para vencer al pishtaco (153). El de 
Ariadna, la virgen en cuestion, lo representa, con propiedad anagramatica, la 
sefiora Adriana. Y el hilo de la leyenda se transforma en un preparado de 
“chupe espeso, bien picante, con ese aji que cura el estrefimiento de los mas 
aguantados” y que dofia Adriana le hace a Timoteo para permitirle depositar 
cada tanto en la oscuridad de la gruta “un mojoncito,” “un dbolo” cuyo olor 
lo guiara por el laberinto de regreso a casa, a la salvacién (153-54). Sila purga 
en el Renacimiento era una buena profilaxis antes de la partida ahora sus 
olorosos frutos se convierten en el garante de un feliz regreso, de la vuelta al 
hogar. 

Dada la importancia asignada por Freud a la fase anal de la infancia, no 
habria de resultar peregrino tedricamente que se utilice el excremento como 
sefia de identidad, como uno de los principios originales, como medio para 
regresar a casa, de una determinada cultura, sea ésta la latinoamericana o incluso 
la europea en determinadas circunstancias, por ejemplo cuando el viajero ha 
sido forzado al desplazamiento y la distancia. En Cristo si é fermato a Eboh de 
Carlo Levi se cuenta a estos efectos un incidente que equiparando nostalgia 
de la mierda con nostalgia patria podria ser calificado sin duda de nacionalismo 
excremental como ya habia venido a sugerir Pops (45-6). Un grupo de 
inmigrantes italianos en Nueva York acuciados por la melancolia espera con 
deseo los domingos para coger un tren, irse al campo, buscar la sombra de un 
Arbol y defecar todos juntos bajo sus ramas: “Ci pareva di essere ragazzi, 
d’essere tornati a Grassano, si era felici, si rideva, si sentiva l’aria della Patria. 
E, quando avevamo finito, gridavamo tutti insieme: ‘Viva l’Italia!.”. Ci veniva 
proprio dal cuore” (87). Es casi inevitable, por otro lado, que en ese colectivo 
gesto defecatorio ademas del triple regreso — a naturaleza, a la infancia, a la 
nacién ~ se intuya también un posible desafio del salvaje interior al poderoso 
anfitrio6n norteamericano, empefiado histéricamente en la época, como ha 
sefialado Suellen Hoy, en asear, en americanizar, al inmigrante, considerado 
como sucio en cuanto tal (93, 109). Con su rito semanal, el grupo de italianos 
se caga literalmente en el estadounidense y en su tierra. E] expediente no es 
nuevo. Defecarse en el invasor o en el invadido, en el visitado o en el visitante, 


284 ANDRES ZAMORA 


en el otro de tierras a las que se viaja 0 se conquista y en el que viene, por 
guerra o turismo, a las propias, es casi un lugar comin. Durante las Guerras 
Franco-Holandesas, uno de los modelos de retrete mas popular en Francia 
simulaba una pila de grandes volumenes que ostentaban en sus lomos el titulo 
Voyage au Pays Bas (Wright 102). De la Guerra de la Independencia espafiola 
contra los franceses se conserva un buen numero de estampas y grabados en 
los que los patriotas locales se cagan de diversas formas y maneras sobre el 
enemigo. En la Segunda Guerra Mundial un modelo de orinal con la efigie 
de Hitler en su fondo fue un apreciado souvenir. En una lectura paralela a la 
hecha anteriormente, el orinal de Lord Wellington con su africano bajo el 
asiento seria una buena ilustracion de la actitud defecatoria de las metrdpolis 
europeas sobre sus colonias, con el afiadido de que el excremento taparia 
ademas la boca del conquistado para que no pudiera contar las indignidades 
del conquistador de las que habia sido objeto y testigo. 

Y sin embargo, a pesar de los intentos de amordazarlas y como demuestra 
el incidente narrado por Levi, las tipicas victimas excrementales del viaje 
encuentran maneras reciprocas de vengarse del victimario. La mayor y mas 
frecuente ofensa contra Dios es cagarse en él, tal vez porque, como sugiere 
Luis Eduardo Aute, no es il6gico considerarnos su excremento (130). El 
mexicano Carlos Fuentes pone a cagar con desmesura hiperbolica a Felipe II 
en Terra Nostra: 


Y cuando no vomitaba sobreveniale una diarrea como de cabra, que 
inundaba de heces verdes el lecho de negras sabanas. Fueron traidos, de 
mala gana, unos criados que cubniéndose las narices y las bocas con pafios 
mojados, se metieron debajo del lecho y con cuchillos practicaron un hoyo 
entre los maderos y el delgado colchon de paja de la cama, por donde 
pudiera escurrirse la mezcla de mierda, orina, sudor, y pus. (885) 


El monarca europeo defeca finalmente a la vista de todos y convierte en 
cloaca el Escorial, el palacio desde donde irradia su poder a todos los extremos 
de su imperio ultramarino. Lo mismo, y con idéntica safia y abundancia, habia 
hecho Juan Goytisolo con los hacendados cubanos de Juan sin Tierra (44-7), 
aunque aqui todavia se acometeria una venganza mayor. Mediante sus arteras 
maniobras discursivas, el texto de Goytisolo invierte las tornas y llega a propo- 
ner la idea de Esparia, fatalmente contaminada ella misma por sus viajes y las 
consecuencias de éstos, como fruto 0 excremento de América (Zamora 366-67), 
invocando asi el extremo de mayor panico para la cultura occidental. El miedo 
fundamental del europeo ante el americano no es probablemente la antropafagia, 
el ser devorado, sino mas bien la posibilidad de ser defecado después, ya que 
eso revelaria el inevitable desorden y la final circularidad excremental anejos 
a todo viaje. Si el viajero renacentista se purgaba antes de partir para convertirse 
en un hombre nuevo, de alguna manera esa regeneracion sdlo se cumplia del 
todo cuando regresaba a su tierra en forma de excremento para asi fertilizarla. 


Vanderbilt University 





| 


| 
| 


| 
| 


ODISEAS EXCREMENTALES 285 


Obras citadas 


Alegria, Ricardo. Las primeras representaciones graficas del indio americano. 1493-1523. 
San Juan: Centro de Estudios Avanzados de Puerto Rico y el Caribe, 1986. 

Anonimo. Crue/ Zelanda, trad. Paco Monge. Barcelona: Libros y Publicaciones 

Periddicas, 1984 
Anonimo. Viaje de Turquia, ed. Fernando Garcia Salinero. Madrid: Catedra, 1980. 

Aute, Luis Eduardo. “Pequefia diarrea mental,” Revista Hiperién. E/ Excremento 4 

(1980): 128-30. 

Bajtin, Mijail. La cultura popular en la Edad Media y en el Renacimiento. E/ contexto de 

Francois Rabelais, trad. Julio Forcat y César Conroy. Madrid: Alianza, 1987. 

BaltruSaitis, Jurgis. Anamorphic Art, trad. W. J. Strachan. Cambridge: Chadwyck- 
Healey Ltd., 1977. 

Borges, Jorge Luis. “La Biblioteca de Babel,” Ficcones. Madrid: Alianza Editorial, 
1995. 86-99. 

Bourke, John G. Escatologia y civilizacion, trad. Jordi Marfa. Madrid: Guadarrama, 
1976. 

Brown, Norman O. Life Against Death. The Psychoanaltical Meaning of History. Mid- 
dletown: Wesleyan UP, 1959. 

Chevalier, Jean y Alain Gheerbrant. A Dictionary of Symbols, trad. John Buchanan- 

Brown. Oxford: Blackwell, 1994. 

Cirlot, J. E. A Dictionary of Symbols. New York: Philosophical Library, 1962. 

Douglas, Mary. Purity and Danger. An Analysis of the Concepts of Pollution and Taboo. 
London: Ark Paperbacks, 1984. 

Donne, John. Works. London, 1839. 

Elias, Norbert. The Civilizing Process (Vol 1: The History of Manners. Vol 2: Power and 
Civikty), trad. Edmund Jephcott. 2 vols. New York: Pantheon, 1978. 

Freud, Sigmund. “El caracter y el erotismo anal.” Ensayos sobre la vita sexual y Ja teo- 

ria de la neurosis, trad. Luis L6pez-Ballesteros. Madrid: Alianza, 1967: 55-60. 

. From the History of an Infantile Neurosis. The Standard Edition of the Complete 
Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, ed. James Strachey. 24 vols. London: 
Hogarth, 1971, 17: 2-123. 

. El makestar en la cultura y otros ensayos, trad. Ramon Rey Ardid. Madnd: Alian- 

za, 1999: 

. “On Transformation of Instinct As Exemplified in Anal Erotism.” The 
Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, ed. James 
Strachey. 24 vols. London: Hogarth, 1971; 17: 125-35. 

. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, ed. 
James Strachey. 24 vols. London: Hogarth Press, 1971. 

Fuentes, Carlos. Terra Nostra, ed. Javier Ordiz. 2 vols. Madrid: Austral, 1991. 

Garcia Marquez, Gabriel. E/ amor en los tiempos del célera. Madrid: Mondadori, 1987. 

Goytisolo, Juan. Juan sin tierra. Barcelona: Seix Barral, 1975. 

. “Quevedo: la obsesién excremental,” Disidencias. Barcelona: Seix Barral, 
P97 TO T7=35. 

Graf, E. C. “Escritor/ Excretor. Cervantes’s ‘Humanism’ on Phillip II’s Tomb.” Cer- 
vantes 19.1 (1999): 66-95. 

Greenblatt, Stephen J. “Filthy Rites.” Learning to Curse. Essays in Early Modern Cul- 
ture. New York: Routledge, 1990: 59-79. 

Horan, Julie L. The Porcelain God. A Social History of the Toilet. Secaucus: Birch Lane 
Press, 1996. 

Hoy, Suellen. Chasing Dirt. The American Pursuit of Cleanliness. Oxford: Oxford UP, 








286 ANDRES ZAMORA 


1995. 

Joyce, James. Udsses, ed. H. W. Gabler, W. Steppe & C. Melchior. Harmonds- 
worth: Penguin, 1986. 

Kerouac, Jack. On the Road, ed. Scott Donaldson. New York: Viking, 1979. 

Kristeva, Julia. Pouvoirs de Vhorreur. Essai sur Vabjection. Paris: Seuil, 1980. 

Laporte, Dominique. History of Shit, trad. N. Benabid and R. el-Koury. Cam- 
bridge: MIT UP, 1993. 

Leed, Eric J. The Mind of the Traveler. From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism. New Y ork: 
Basic Books, 1991. 

Levi, Carlo. Cristo si ¢ fermato a Ebok. Milano: Mondadon, 1985. 

Moffit, John y Santiago Sebastian. O Brave New World. The European Invention of the 
American Indian. A\burquerque: U New Mexico P, 1996. 

Monga, Luigi. “Cycles of Early Modern Hodoeporics,” AdI 18 (2000): 199-238. 

. “Travel and Travel Writing: An Historical Overview of Hodoeporics.” 
Ad!I 14 (1996): 6-54. 

Naipaul, V. S. An Area of Darkness. London: Penguin, 1968. 

. “Two Worlds. Nobel Lecture 2001.” PMLA 117:3 (2002): 479-86. 

Paz, Octavio. Conjunciones y disyunciones. México: Joaquin Mortiz, 1969. 

Pollan, Tomas. “Exploracién de una metafora.” Revista Hiperion. El Excremento 4 
(1980): 18-40. 

Pops, Martin. “The Metamorphosis of Shit,” Salgamundi 56 (1982): 26-61. 

Pratt, Mary Louise. Imperial Eyes. Travel Writing and Transculturation. London: Rout- 
ledge, 1992. 

Prieto, René. Body of Writing. Figuring Desire in Spanish American Literature. Durham: 
Duke UP, 2000. 

Quevedo, Francisco de. “Pronuncia con sus nombres los trastos y miserias de la 
vida,” Un Herdclito cristiano, Canta sola a Lisi y otros poemas, ed. Lia Schwartz e 
Ignacio Arellano. Barcelona: Critica, 1998: 318-19. 

Sarduy, Severo. “La desterritorializacion.” Plural 48 (1975): 54-57. 

Shankar, S. Textual Traffic. Colonialism, Modernity, and the Economy of the Text. Albany: 
State U of New York P, 2001. 

Stallybrass, Peter y Allon White. The Politics and Poetics of Transgression. London: Me- 
thuen, 1986. 

Swift, Jonathan. The Selected Poems, ed. A. Norton Jeffares. London: Kyle Cathie, 

1992. 

Tyler, Anne. The Accidental Tourist. New York: Berkeley Books, 1986. 

Vargas Llosa, Mario. Lituma en los Andes. Madrid: Bibliotex, 2001. 

Vespucci, Amerigo. Leftera di Amerigo Vespucci delle isole nuovamente trovate in quattro 
suoi viaggi. Il mondo nuovo di Amerigo Vespucci, ed. M. Pozzi. Milano: Edizioni 
dell’Orso, 1993: 135-75. 

Wanner, Dieter. “Excursién en torno al viaje,” Literatura de viajes. El Viejo Mundo y 
el Nuevo, ed. Salvador Garcia Castafieda. Madrid: Castalia, 1999: 15-19. 

Wright, Lawrence. Clean and Decent. The Fascinating History of the Bathroom and the 
Water Closet. London: Routledge, 1960. 

Yudice, George. “Feeding the Transcendent Body.” Essays in Postmodern Culture, 
ed. Eyal Amiran y John Unsworth. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1993: 13-36. 

Zamora, Andrés. “La utopia excremental de Juan Goytisolo, escritor latinoamerica- 
no. Maneras de defecar(se) en la cultura occidental,” Heterotropia: Narrativas de 
identidad y alteridad latinoamericana, ed. C. Jauregui y J. P. Dabove. Pittsburgh: 
Instituto Internacional de Literatura Iberoamericana, 2003: 351-71. 











NATHALIE HESTER 


Geographies of Belonging: 
Italian Travel Writing and Italian Identity in 
the Age of Early European Tourism 


prestige. Just as Italy lost its envied position at the forefront of European 

culture, Italian urban centers became the favored destinations of rapidly 
spreading aristocratic tourism. In this new era of codified travel, Italians had 
to adapt both to the peninsula’s relegation to the geographical, political, and 
economic edges of the continent and to their new role in the European 
imaginary as the designated hosts to travelers from the north.' Those Italians 
who chose to leave the peninsula inevitably went countercurrent to throngs of 
southbound European aristocrats and found themselves in an ambiguous 
position: they were unquestionably European in their heritage but, because there 
existed no cohesive form of “Italian” travel, excluded as a group from general 
European travel patterns. 

The lack of an “Italian” culture of travel had significant repercussions in 
this period because mobility had become a key element in burgeoning notions 
of national and even European identity. New models of cultural belonging and 
prominence now involved larger geo-political territories having one principal 
cultural center and defined in part by the international mobility and influence 
of their inhabitants and institutions. As Gerard Delanty points out, 


Te waning of the Renaissance brougnt about a drastic shift in Italy’s 


the age of exploration saw the nse of larger territorial states, proto- 
nation-states such as England, the United Provinces of the Netherlands, 
Spain, and France. [...] It was Europe’s mastery of the Atlantic—with 
the aid of new and improved methods of shipbuilding and 


1. Especially after the mid seventeenth century, disastrous events within Italy's borders and 
developments throughout Europe contributed to Italy's loss of status in what has been 
characterized as a division between a Mediterranean and Atlantic world. The Peace of 
Westphalia, which put an end to the Thirty Years’ War in 1648 and whose provisions were 
rejected by the pope, effectively cut off Italy from its more powerful northern neighbors 
(Prosperi and Viola 94). 


Annali ditahanistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


288 NATHALIE C. HESTER 


navigation—that signaled the arrival of a new age and a specifically 
European identity. (Delanty 44, 46) 


Unified and powerful countries now prevailed, and, Delanty suggests, only those 
countries with established systems of international access came to represent 
“Europe.” Italy, once a key player in western civilization, now remained at the 
margins of European influence. 

These evolving geographies of belonging—based on strengthening 
associations between cultural identity and internationally significant, relatively 
large and unified territories—had no conceptual equivalent in the Italian context. 
In fact, notions of a uniform, proto-national Italian identity have historically 
disregarded any geographical grounding. Theodore Cachey for instance 
characterizes the forging of Italy’s literary identity in the sixteenth 
century—ostensibly the only homogeneous expression of “Italian” culture—as 
a compensatory reaction to the peninsula’s geo-political reality: 


The profound cultural and linguistic diversity that characterized the 
peninsula gave rise to a highly unified and refined, albeit narrowly 
conceived, Italian linguistic and literary cultural identity, devised to 
overcome not only the diversity from which it emerged and the violence 
of historical events, but also an onginal lack of geographical center, of 
territorial definition and integrity. (Cachey 56) * 


In other words, any consistent idea of Italian-ness had to somehow hover above 
the material manifestations of politically and culturally fragmented Italian spaces. 
The rigid Italian literary canon provided a perfect vehicle for conceiving of and 
formulating a coherent and cohesive sense of “Italian” culture. 

Ina related manner, Giuliano Bollati points out that the idea of Italian-ness 
as historically “ungrounded” stems from the enduring symbolic power of Italy’s 
classical heritage in the Italian imaginary. Claims to Italy’s boundary-less cultural 
relevance—as heir to and exporter of Civilization—are persistent characteristics 
of pre-national and national concepts of Italian identity: * 


2. Cachey goes on to speak of the creation of a “deterritorialized linguistic and literary statute 
for modern Italian literature” (63). 


3. Timothy Hampton speaks of a “pre-history of nationalism” applicable to early modern 
Europe: “If nationalism is produced out of the idea that individual identity is shaped and given 
purpose by a concept of community of which a common language is the medium, territory the 
seat, and shared character the stimulus, the history of nationhood, as a pre-history of 
nationalism, might be said to involved the struggle do determine language, space, and 
character, and to define their interaction” (Hampton 9). Such an interaction is precisely what 
Italy struggled with for centuries. 








GEOGRAPHIES OF BELONGING 289 


I] primato della discendenza classica (inclusiva anche della romanita cristiana), 
il dono dell’appartenenza al nucleo centrale della ‘civilta’, non solo non si 
é lasciato sopraffare dall’evidenza della decadenza, ma nella immensita della 
caduta ha visto confermata l’altezza, nella vastita del danno un segno di 
elezione e la legittimazione dell’orgoglio. Una forma di dissociazione [...] 
particolarmente acuta nel vortice delle piu drammatiche crisi dell’identita: 
durante le invasioni, o quando avvenne nel Cinquecento la seconda caduta, 
quella della liberta italiana, ancora e sempre a opera dei ‘barbari.’ Durano 
ancora oggi gli estremi effetti di questa forma patologica della coscienza 
italiana (il cui terreno di cultura fu costituito dagli intellettuali, addetti alla 
conservazione di quella universalita disancorata). (Bollati 40-41)* 


Once Italy lost its cultural primacy, the ultimate value accorded to “unanchored 
universalism” functioned as a defense mechanism against the eminence of more 
spatially anchored dominant powers while making a strong case for Italy’s 
enduring legacy in Europe. 

How do these intricate relationships between identity, place, and cultural 
status play out in Italian travel writing? Certainly for seventeenth- and 
eighteenth-century Italian tourists in Europe who wrote of their travels, 
“unanchored universalism” poses a complex set of problems. For one, as 
Georges Van Den Abbeele points out, a distinct notion of “home” is essential 
to the experience of travel: 


The economy of travel requires an oikos (the Greek for ‘home’ from which 
is derived ‘economy’) in relation to which any wandering can be 
comprehended (enclosed as well as understood). In other words, a home(land) 
must be posited from which one leaves on the journey and to which one 
hopes to return. (Van Den Abbeele xviti) 


The ozkos discussed by Van Den Abbeele is crucial not only as a geographical 
departure point, but also as the symbol of a perspective or system of beliefs 
that lends meaning and coherence to the journey and its representation. Italian 
travelers still identified with their pafria, their city or region of origin, but new 
paradigms in European travel culture called for a vaster and more integrated 
homeland. However, again in Cachey’s words, “travel away from Italy points 
to the embarrassment of the fact that Italy [...] did not exist as a place to depart 
from and return to” (Cachey 62). This could only be too clear to Italians visiting 
France, the United Provinces, and England. Furthermore, a typical if not 
expected element of travel writing, however varied the forms of expression 
might be, involved making generalizations about different “national” groups 


4. Bollati continues: “L’impietosa perseveranza degli stranieri nel considerare !’Italia 
essenzialmente un paese di rovine e di memorie, e le confutazioni incessanti in risposta, 
obbediscono, nella gara degli opposti etnocentrismi, a regole precise, stabilite assai presto nel 
tempo” (40). 


290 NATHALIE C. HESTER 


in implied contrast with the narrator’s (superior) country of origin. Italian travel 
writers inevitably struggled to project a subject position comparable to those 
of northern Europeans and to establish an authoritative “Italian” lens through 
which to textually represent other countries and their citizens. 

Lengthy musings on the nature of Italian-ness were hardly the stuff of early 
Italian tourist writing, which sought principally to convey information about 
foreign cultures and topographies, but certain remarks and recurring discourses 
reveal a generalized spatial unease related to Italy’s and Italians’ diminished 
status abroad.” In the second edition of Neapolitan traveler Giovanni Francesco 
Gemelli Careri’s Viaggi per /’Europa (1701), for instance, the narrator does 
establish the dichotomy between barbarians and civilized men that Bollati 
observes in Italian thinking about Italian identity. In the opening letter of his 
1686 journey, Gemelli Careri expresses particular disdain for travelers flocking 
to Italy to see what he considers to be unworthy sites, such as the Grotta del 
Cane in Pozzuolt: “A dirvi il vero, non posso se non maravigliarmi forte degli 
oltramontani, [...] quando, con tanta curiosita, vanno a Pozzuoli per cose forse 
di minor pregio: e pure molti di essi passano i monti a bello studio per 
contemplare di cotai seccaggini” (4-5). ° Implied j in Gemelli Careri’s choice of 
the term o/tramontan: is the idea that the Alps are not simply a topographical 
element but a cultural barrier separating those with less and those with more 
refined habits. 

The traveler also expresses discontent at the assumptions made by Northern 
Europeans about Italians. Near Nuremberg, he 1s irked by fellow travelers who, 
although not well versed in Latin themselves, expect Latin expertise in Italians 
and are surprised at the Neapolitan’s awkward oral expression: 


mi rimasi co’ compagni a desinar nel villagio di Pospavwy, dove, non senza 
grandissima noia, fummi d'uopo parlar latino, perocché non intendea le 
diverse favelle di alcun di loro. Si maravigliano gli oltramontani come noi 
non troppo speditamente usiam la lingua latina quando ne occorre di cio fare 
in viaggio, come se veramente essi, o nello scrivere, o nel parlare ne fussero 


5. Italian travelers certainly expressed their admiration for Europe’s proto-nations. For 
example Francesco Belli, who accompanied a Venetian delegation to the United Provinces in 
1626, expresses awe at the beauty, cleanliness, and organization of Amsterdam’s urban 
landscape: “Nello entrare in Amsterdamo si ci accompagno lo stupore. [...] Quella parte che 
si chiama la citta nuova é incomparabile. Ha quattro cinque canali diritti e ben lunghi con rive 
ampie, pendent, e nette al possibile. Ogni riva ha due ordini d’arbori molto gentili di 
grandezza e rotondita a proporzione. Le fabriche vi sono continuate e quasi uguali per tutto, 
dilicatissime e colorite diversamente e molto vaghe per la materia de’ vetri lavorati con rari 
artifizii e per altri ornamenti sovra i tetti. I canali hanno ponti di egregia fatttura, posti coi 
debiti intervalli” (Belli 118-9). 

6. The “Grotta del Cane” was Pozzuoli’s most popular tourist attraction, where travelers paid 
to see animals “miraculously” become inanimate and, if taken away, revive. The phenomenon 
results from currents of carbon dioxide that flow into the cave. 


GEOGRAPHIES OF BELONGING 291 


gran maestri, e non facessero otta per vicenda de’ piu belli barbarismi del 
mondo: la dove noi, se per difetto di esercizio men velocemente adopriam 
la lingua, almeno sappiam colla penna formare un periodo giusta le regole 
de’ buoni maestri. (467—468) 


He quickly counters the criticism, defending Italians’ ability to write in Latin, 
a skill, in his opinion, apparently lost by the o/ramontani who proffer “barbaric” 
linguistic utterances, and makes an unequivocal distinction between “we” (those 
educated in a solid humanist tradition) and “they” (all those of questionable 
formation coming from over the Alps). Here Gemelli Careri’s allusion to a 
specific geographical area—the Alps-—serves less to group Italians together than 
to separate them from the rest of Europe. The reference to this mountain range 
becomes a symbol of an unsurmountable cultural difference that leaves him 
and the o/tramontani simply to “marvel” at each other. 

Although Gemelli Careri’s response to Italy’s status as a European 
playground and to inaccurate assumptions about Italian learning provide 
pertinent indications of what Bollati describes as a pathology of denial, more 
compelling are the ways in which Italian travel accounts establish innovative 
geographies of belonging aimed at recuperating the privileged position of Italian 
culture. Even the most disparate travel texts that are the products of varying 
historical contexts and individual objectives can be related in the ways they 
address, directly or indirectly, and by embracing or rejecting, the link between 
place and identity. Such accounts put into play different centripetal strategies 
in order to mitigate the centrifugal, dispersive pull of a de-centered, fragmented 
Italian peninsula and to reaffirm the cultural eminence of Italy and Italians. 

Francesco Negri’s Viaggio settentrionak (1700), one of the earlier narratives 
of Scandinavian travels by a continental European, includes rather original 
geographies of belonging. Negri, a parish priest from Ravenna with ties to the 
Florentine scientific community, weaves in the eight letters of his 1664-1666 
travels an eccentric text filled with scrupulous details, literary allusions, pseudo- 
scientific analyses, and superstitious claims. The Viaggto settentrionale can be read, 
in addition to its informative intent, as an attempt to prove Italy’s right to 
international prominence. Negri, who addresses his readers by speaking of “noi 
europe”, interprets historical events and tenets of early modern climate theory 
in order to assert his authority as an Italian traveler and to establish Italians are 
natural heirs to cultural greatness. 

One of Negri’s more novel steps is, in his letter describing Sweden, to 
embrace temporary historiographical amnesia concerning the “barbarian” 
invasions and to create a Northern myth of origin for Italians. By associating 
Italy with Swedish culture and its military successes, he “nears” Italy to northern 


292 NATHALIE C. HESTER 


Europe.’ Instead of positing a barrier between the civilized and the uncivilized 
as does Gemelli Careri, Negri underscores the common historical connection 
of Swedes and Italians to Goth ancestors as part of his argument to assert 
Swedish and therefore Italian international respectability and strength. He 
describes Swedes as Goth-Swedes (“questo popolo Svevo-Goto” 134) as 
superlative warriors who, like their Gothic ancestors, have a history as 
conquerors and not as a conquered people:® “non fu mai soggiogato il paese 
[Sweden] da stranieri con aperta guerra, ma bensi i suoi popoli arrivarono gia 
sotto il nome di Goti a dominare la dominazione del mondo, Roma” (135).’ 
The focus on Swedish-Gothic immunity from military attacks in their homeland 
implicitly contrasts with the historical reality of Italy, a peninsula overrun by 
other nations. In seeking to connect Italians to the Swedes’ ability—inherited 
from their Gothic ancestors—to resist invaders, Negri expresses yearning for 
an independent Italy free of foreign domination. 

However, in order to argue for Gothic exemplariness, Negri must discard 
the Goths’ invasion of Italy and contribution to the demise of the Roman 
Empire in the fifth century. He casts aside the traditional Italian early modern 
nostalgia for the authority and organization of Italy during Roman times and 
instead depicts Goths as the benevolent dictators—uncoincidentally based in 
Negri’s patra, Ravenna—who brought Italy its best government, a center of 
power that could provide “territorial integrity”: “se giammai godeé I'Italia felice 
governo, cid fu sotto il regno de’ Goti” (136). In his highly imaginative 
historical re-reading, Italy’s resilience and courage come more from its northern 
heritage than from its glorious Roman past. For a brief moment in the Viaggio 
settentrionale, then, Italians acquire a new illustrious place in history as heirs to 
an Atlantic and not Greco-Roman people. 

In a final assessment of the geographical and cultural place of Italy on 
the world map, however, the arguments in the Viaggio settentrionale imply that 


7. Negri was a strong enthusiast of Swedish culture and, before embarking on his travels, had 
gone to Rome to witness Christina of Sweden’s reception by the pope. He highlights his 
Gothic roots when recalling that in an audience with Christina of Sweden in Rome, he was able 
to discuss his “patria Ravenna, residenza degli antichi re de’ Goti ” (201). 

8. “Questa é una nazione delle piu bellicose che veda il sole. [...] E realmente non puo che 
dirsi che la natura abbia fatto questi popoli per conquistare, il paese per non esser conquistato, 
comunicando a quelli un animo dotato di straordinario coraggio e robustezza di corpo” (Negri, 
134). 

9. Goths, conquerors from northern and northeastern Europe, occupied much of Italy in early 
medieval times. The Ostrogoths, whose kingdom included Ravenna as a principal city, ruled 
Italy in the fifth and sixth century A.D., before the domination of the Longobards. Negri uses 
“Goth” as a generic term for invaders from the north, but the Ostrogoths, originating from 
near the Black Sea, were actually a separate group from the southern Scandinavian Germanic 
tribes. See the Atlante Storico Garzanti 114-119. 





GEOGRAPHIES OF BELONGING 293 


Italy is indeed the true, physical center of human civilization. Linking cultural 
ascendancy to geographical placement, Negri uses climate theory as the principal 
interpretative framework for asserting Italian climactic and therefore 
anthropological superiority, establishing Italy's, and more specifically Ravenna's, 
as ideal. For Negri, in other words, geography is destiny. 

Despite his apparent admiration of Scandinavian restraint and resistance 
to brutally cold conditions, Negri ultimately adheres to Aristotelian associations 
between temperate climate and successful societies (Tooley, 81). He also takes 
the same liberties as other climate theorists in determining the specific location 
of the ideal climate. For Aristotle, for instance, Greece had the best climate. 
For Ptolemy, areas lying between 28 and 34 degrees north were preferable.” 
In a final discursive four de force in his quest to re-centralize Italy, Negri 
unabashedly declares that areas at 45 degrees north, virtually identical to 
Ravenna’s latitude of 44'25" north, have the most salutary climate. Such a 
latitude—several degrees north of Athens and far removed from Ptolemy's ideal 
region—is for Negri most favorable to make flourish humankind's potential: 


Ritrovo che quelle nazioni, che sono egualmente distanti dalla zona torrida 
e dalla glaciale, cioé circa al grado quarantesimo quinto, producono, se non 
unitamente nell’istesso soggetto, almeno disgiuntamente in varii, le persone 
piu belle e gli ingegni pit acuti, e per conseguenza piu virtuosi 0 pit viziosi, 
che Valtre provincie che s’accostano all’estremita, nella quale si verifica 
regolarmente il detto del Filosofo: Homines regionum frigidarum plus habent virium, 
minus consiki; calidarum e contra.'' (157) 


It is significant that in Negri’s unabashed assertion of Italian superiority there 
is no attempt to define Italians as having innate traits in common. The qualities 
of Italian-ness have nothing to do with a homogeneous “national” character. 


10. Political scientist Jean Bodin, one the early modern period’s most thorough climate 


theorist, claims in his Stix Livres de la Republique (1576) that Italy has the ideal climate and 
geographical position as it is equally distant from Scandinavia and Ethiopia on the north-south 
axis, and from Arabia and Spain on the east-west axis. There is no evidence that Negri read 
Bodin, although Bodin’s idea of center would have supported Negri's claims. See Tooley 
81-2. 

11. Negri’s quotation comes from Aristotle’s Po/tics, VII, 7 on climate and character: “The 
nations in cold regions, particularly in Europe, are full of spirit but deficient in intelligence and 
skill; which is why they continue to be comparatively free but are apolitical and incapable of 
ruling their neighbors. By contrast, those in Asia have intelligent minds and are skilled in the 
crafts, but they lack spirit; which is why they continue to be ruled and enslaved. But as for the 
race of the Greeks, just as it occupies an intermediate region, so it shares in both conditions. 
For it is both spirited and intelligent; and this is why it continues to be free (Aristotle, Politics 
12). 


294 NATHALIE C. HESTER 


To the contrary, individual variety is a cultural asset because, according to 
Negri’s climactic logic, it provides the highest potential for intelligence and 
greatness. Individuals on the Italian peninsula share a physical place—a 
geography of belonging—that has provided its inhabitants with the capacity at 
least to match, if not to surpass other Europeans in their travels abroad. 

Published several decades after Negri’s account, Giuseppe Baretti’s Lettere 
Jamikari a’ suot tre fratelk (1762-3) recounting travels through Portugal and Spain, 
as well as his English-language version entitled Journey from England to Genoa 
(1770), would appear to have little in common with the Viaggio settentrionak. 
Baretti, a well-traveled and cosmopolitan essayist, editor, translator, linguist, 
and poet of the Enlightenment era, is remembered less for his travel publications 
than through the character of Aristarco Scannabue, the cranky and sharp- 
tongued cultural commentator of his bi-monthly publication, the Fresta ktteraria 
(1764-1766). Certainly Negri and Baretti’s accounts are products of different 
eras, itineraries, goals and aptitudes. Travel texts of the eighteenth century 
tended to allow more space for journalistic and essayist elements those of the 
previous century. 

Nevertheless, like Negri’s, Baretti’s text also includes arguments that seek 
to confirm Italy’s enduring centrality to western civilization. Especially the 
Journey, but also the Italian original, offers unique insights into the literary and 
cultural concerns of a cosmopolitan Italian moving through various European 
cultures. Baretti’s privileging of literary culture—both in evaluating other 
countries and in making metatextual remarks on the art of travel 
writing—corresponds not only to a personal passion for literary matters but also 
to an impetus to place Italian culture on the stage of eighteenth-century Europe. 


Baretti, who spent over thirty years of his life in England, chooses an 
itinerary that is off the beaten path of tourists headed south. His less direct way 
to Italy, chosen because England and France were at war, certainly represents 
an alternate route to that of the Grand Tour through France and over the Alps 
into Turin. The account of a journey through Spain and Portugal was one of 
relatively few texts on the market at the time and allows Baretti-narrator, like 
Negri, to serve as a unique (Italian) mediator of a lesser-traveled part of Europe. 

In the thirty-eighth letter of the Lestere famikan, Baretti answers with hopeful 
anticipation to the rhetorical question ” what will people think of these letters?”: 


L’amor propio risponde che tutti loderanno l’idea delle mie lettere, che tutti 
ammireranno la mia forbitezza di lingua, la nettezza del mio stile, la varieta 
de’ miei pensieri, la facilita delle mie espressioni e la giustezza de’ miei 


12. Elvio Guagnini notes that eighteenth-century travel writing often reflect s “penchant [...] 
verso la forma saggistica” and “il gusto di una lingua del reportage” (208, 210). 








GEOGRAPHIES OF BELONGING 295 


sentimenti. L’amore propio risponde che alcuni altri mi chiameranno un bel 
pittore d’oggetti materiali, che mi considereranno come un sagace indagatore 
di modi e di costumi, che ognuno adottera i miei sistemi e la mia morale, e 
che in sostanza tutti mi celebreranno come uno de’ piu chiani, de’ pit eleganti 
e de’ piu sicuri scrittori che s’abbia oggidi d'Italia. (Lettere 232) 


Baretti’s self-conscious answer, conveyed through his typical irony-tinged 
hyperbole, reveals a desire to provide a new interpretive model (‘i miei sistemi” 
in travel writing to be adopted and recognized in literary culture.’ 

While Baretti’s writing is incisive and varied and much of his critical 
apparatus persuasive, at first the work did not meet with much success. In fact 
the first volume of the Leftere famikari provoked mostly a minor scandal for its 
unflattering remarks about the Portuguese. The second volume was heavily 
censured before publication and Baretti, discouraged by a hostile literary 
environment, never published the remaining letters in Italian. This tireless 
Italian critic eventually received praise for his travel writing, but mainly outside 
of the Italy: encouraged by Samuel Johnson and funded by an English editor, 
in 1770 he published an English-language version of his trip under the title 
Journey from England to Genoa. The new text received glowing reviews in England 
for its clever, entertaining, and informative prose. 

Baretti’s decision to write a version of his travels for English readers 
represents a novel strategy in developing “geographies of belonging”: an 
infiltration of the cultural space of the other, in this case to access a dominant 
culture of travel. In the English-language Journey, a text usually considered 
somewhere between an adaptation and a translation of the Lefttere famihan, 
Baretti refashions his own work for a culture with—unlike Italy—an extensive 
and recognized tradition of travel literature.'* Taking a new metatextual avenue, 
the revised version also criticizes superficial and often negative descriptions 
of “other” national groups. Baretti-narrator is perfectly aware that such 
stereotypes—for the most part negative when it comes to Italians—are circulated 
and reinforced in a growing market for travel accounts. 

Benedict Anderson has argued that nationality is a cultural artifact, and 
that existing nations are “imagined communities” whose creation was facilitated 


13. “Tl Baretti si trovava [...Jalle prese con un vero e proprio ‘modello interpretativo’, relativo 


non solo all’oggetto—il paese o i paesi da visitare—ma anche e soprattutto all’attitudine del 
viaggiatore, che era da tempo ormai diventato ‘un momento significativo nella formazione della 
coscienza europea” (Anglani 22). 

14. Certain aspects of the Joumey reflect the change in cultural context. Free of censure, 
Baretti more openly criticizes certain Italian and religious institutions. There are more detailed 
anecdotes and descriptions and, writing only a few years after the publication of Lawrence 
Sterne’s A Sentimental Journey, Baretti is more experimental and playful with the structure of the 
letters. 


296 NATHALIE C. HESTER 


in part by “print capitalism .. . which made it possible for rapidly growing 
numbers of people to think about themselves, and to relate themselves to others, 
in profoundly new ways” (Anderson 36). Although Anderson's anthropological 
study addresses primarily modern nationalism, his focus on the link between 
print culture and the creation of national consciousness has meaningful 
resonances in the culture of European tourism. Indeed, the reinforcement of 
a tourist's sense of belonging to a specific “imagined community” that could 
be differentiated from other communities did not only occur after experiencing 
the dépaysement of travel abroad: it was the growing industry of travel 
publications, from travel diaries to guidebooks, that also determined and 
conditioned the traveler’s perspective and that circulated a community’s 
generalizations, presumptions, and stereotypes concerning others. Loredana 
Polezzi stresses that in the history of travel writing, Italy, as a favorite 
destination, was (and undoubtedly still is) particularly vulnerable to superficial 
characterizations: 


For centuries Italy has been the subject of an identifiable tradition of texts 
produced by other European cultures and devoted to its description. 
Travelers in Italy have left a formidable corpus of comments, and have 
contributed to the creation and persistence of stereotypes concerning national 
character as well as cultural heritage. (Polezzi 26) 


Baretti, making use of his excellent linguistic abilities, counters these cultural 
currents by offering an Italian and therefore alternative perspective of Europe 
within a more established tradition of travel writing. 

One of Baretti’s principal criticisms of travel writing is the seemingly 
unavoidable need to characterize entire populations as a whole, often in a 
disapproving manner. Although he speaks of the negative associations to which 
all European countries are subject, his emphasis on the issue in the English- 
language version of his travels suggests particular concern for misrepresentations 
of Italy in English travel accounts. ~ Baretti’s remarks bemoan the continued 
reinforcement of incorrect and essentially meaningless information through 
print. He consistently deplores the archetypal and erroneus traits that travel 
writers have long attributed to various countries: 


Such is the inattention with which travellers cross countries, even those who 


do it with their quills in their hands! When they have copied out of each 


15. Baretti wrote his Account of the manners and customs of Italy (1768) as a response Englishman 
Samuel Sharp’s description of Italy and Italians, and he specifically targets the superficial nature 
of the Grand Tour: “No English traveller that ever I heard, ever went a step out of those 
roads, which from the foot of the Alps lead straight to our most famed cities. None of them 
ever will deign to visit those places whose names are not in every body’s mouth. They travel 
to see things, and not men” (Aa Account 327). 








GEOGRAPHIES OF BELONGING 297 


other’s books that the Spaniards are proud, grave, and idle; the French volatile, 
confident, and talkative; the Italians cunning, jealous, and superstitious; the 
English rude, inhospitable, and philosophical, the great part of itinerary writers 
think they have done great matters, and that they are intitled to challenge 
abundance of respect from their countrymen. (Journey I: 338-339) 


sing his Portuguese and Spanish travels as a laboratory for enacting his 
“method” and “system” of accurate anthropological observations of different 
European countries, Baretti stresses the need to eliminate empty stereotypes: ‘i 


The fashionable characterisers of moder nations, a breed that in this century 
has prodigiously multiplied all over Europe, are unanimously agreed, that 
there is a very great difference between the natural inclinations of this and 
that people, and that (for instance) idleness is as much inherent in the Spaniard 
and the Italian, as the opposite quality is in the Englishman or the Dutchman. 
But a great share of sagacity would not be necessary to discover the falsity 
of this assertion, and indeed of all assertions of this kind, were we but willing 
to shake off our mental idleness, lay aside our national prejudices, and exert 
our faculties in the easy discovery of our own perceptions. (Journey II: 1-2) 


Like Negri, Baretti dismisses any notion of innate homogeneous “national” 
characteristics.!’ His remarks indicate a particular concern for Italy as the victim 
of negative stereotyping, especially because there is a clear geographical and 
cultural distinction between slower southern Europeans and more energetic 
northern Europeans. This coupling of Spain and Italy suggests that any defense 
of Spain against disapproving generalizations is in effect also a defense of Italy. 

Another central strategy of Baretti’s in creating his “Italian” perspective 
is to use Italy’s literary heritage to gain access to European cultural belonging. 
Unlike Negri, Baretti embraces the disembodied, ungrounded nature of Italy’s 
literary cultural identity as an ideally impartial subject position for writing about 
travel and travel writing. Italy’s literary tradition provides an authoritative point 
from which to depart on his international textual journeys. A cosmpolitan reader 
and writer, he is both Italian in his literary background and yet “universal” in 
his knowledge of various European literary traditions. Also, his focus on literary 


16. It is significant that Baretti includes an Aragonian priest’s lengthy defense of his region 
against stereotyping. The clergyman criticizes travelers’ incomprehension of cultural and 
linguistic variation in different regions of Spain. Through the words of the priest, Baretti 
indirectly expresses concern for similar issues in the Italian context (II, Letter 69). 

17. Baretti writes of Italy in Am account of the manners and customs of Italy as “a cluster of little 
nations, which differ among themselves not only in manners and in customs, but in 
governement and in laws, and even in dress and in language (14)” and stresses that “the 
division of Italy into many sovereignties renders the inhabitants of different parts near as much 
strangers to one another as if they were the inhabitants of so many islands, because they 
seldom travel into one another’s country” (An account 233). 


298 NATHALIE C. HESTER 


issues allows him to draw on and remind his readers of one of Italy’s most 
important artistic legacies. 

However, this positioning within a group of dominant cultures 
ultimately results in the casting away of another, as in the case of Portugal. In 
order to reinforce his status as a European insider, Baretti completely dismisses 
the Portuguese literary market, implying that Portugal (and not Italy) is on the 
true cultural edges of Europe. After a few disappointing visits to various libraries 
and booksellers in Portugal, he deduces that Portugal’s low textual production 
reflects the ignorance of its people. He writes for example in the Leétere familiar: 


il paragonare la letteratura stampata in questa lingua a quella stampata in 
italiano, in francese e in inglese, sarebbe un paragonare i funghi ai cipressi, 
e Pulcinella ad Ercole; e dove la letteratura non é in voga e sparsa qui e qua 
per una nazione, quella nazione dev’essere quasi per necessaria conseguenza 
scortetta e piena di vizio e di barbarie, e 1 suoi individui, chi piu chi meno, 
debbono operare piu animalescamente che non gl’indivui d’altre nazioni rese 
colte da’ loro molti teologi, da’ loro molti filosofi, da’ loro molti poeti e da’ 
loro molti stuodiosi di tutte le cose. (Leftere 140) 


In Baretti’s unminced words, the division between civilization and barbarism 
is clear: Portugal is the diminutive mushroom and comically light Pulcinella 
to Italy, France, and England’s towering cypresses and imposing Hercules. The 
remark also conveniently groups Italy with Europe’s most “enlightened” nations. 

Assessments of Portuguese culture and erudition reveal a similar 
condescension in the English version of the travels. After noting that books 
are hard to find even several years after the devastating Lisbon earthquake, 
Baretti disregards the catastrophe as an attenuating factor: “The loss of 
Portuguese learning will scarcely be felt out of Portugal, as it never was in 
fashion any where, and will scarcely ever be. Few are the writers of this country 
who ever had a name abroad” (Journey 1:1 67)."8 Again, the dismissive comment 
is in implied contrast with the highly fashionable and far-reaching fame of 
writers such as Dante and Petrarch, whom Baretti mentions in both versions 
of his travels. 

But Baretti does much more: by correlating a sluggish literary climate to 
the animal-like ignorance of an entire people, he places Portugal on the far-flung 
margins of Europe. In fact, he even goes on to suggest that Portugal may not 


18. Baretti is also often critical of some aspects of Italian culture, even literary culture. His 
distaste for Baroque literature is especially strong: “the most fam’d Portuguese writers are at 
best but equal to our Achillin’s and Ciampolt’s in verse, and to our... Tesauro’s in prose, whose 
distorted way of thinking and turgidness of expression have procured the appellation of Seco/o 
cattivo to the last century, whenever we consider it in a literary light” (Journey 1:169). 


GEOGRAPHIES OF BELONGING 299 


be geographically a part of the European continent. Although Baretti’s 
commentary is more tempered in the English version, he ends his assessment 
of the Portuguese with the question: “But whatever I may believe, don’t you 
begin to think that Portugal is rather too much in the neighborhood of A frica?” 
(Journey 1:132). This unexpected provocation—a disturbing foreshadowing of 
modern Italian geographical prejudices—can only point to Baretti’s placeless 
Italian cultural identity and perspective, since the Italian peninsula is just as 
much “in the neighborhood” of Africa as Portugal. This exaggerated distancing 
of Portugal from the rest of Europe, coupled with the conspicuous denial of 
Italy’s geographical position, reflect an implicit desire on Baretti’s part to near 
his culture of belonging to Italy’s northern neighbors, a belonging that demands 
the exclusion, however problematic, of other countries. 

The Viaggio settentrionale, Lettere famitari, and Journey from London to Genoa 
reveal the particular complexities in Italian travel writing of positioning the 
“Ttalian” subject in relation to other European cultures. Negri and Baretti’s 
vastly different accounts can be characterized as “Italian” because their 
articulations of the relationship between place and identity—either embracing 
of rejecting that relationship—are part of a strategy to reaffirm Italy’s standing 
on a European scale. The implicit concern in these texts for the status of Italian 
culture tells us that cultural hierarchies are just as pertinent in European travel 
writing about Europe as they are in accounts of global travel. All spaces, even 
those that seem relatively undifferentiated, contain centers and margins. In a 
tourist culture and travel publishing market increasingly conditioned by northern 
Europeans, such texts are inherently transgressive: they communicate the lesser- 
heard voice of a European “other” and, in establishing an authoritative “Italian” 
sense of belonging contingent primarily upon the recognition of a common 
heritage, resist all foreign representations of Italy and Italians based on uniform 
and innate “national” characteristics. 


University of Oregon, Eugene 


300 NATHALIE C. HESTER 


Works Cited 


Anderson, Benedict. Imagined Communities. New York: Verso, 1999. 

Anglani, Bartolo. “Baretti e il patto del viaggiatore illuminista” in Giuseppe Baretti: un 
piemontese in Europa, eds. M. Cerutiand P. Trivero. Alessandnia: Edizionidell’Orso, 
1993: 21-36. 

Anistotle. Poktics. Books VII and VIII, transl. R. Kraut. Oxford: Clarendon, 1997. 

Atlante storico Garzanti. Milan: Garzanti, 1999. 

Baretti, Giuseppe. Leftere familiari a’ suoi tre fratelli Filippo, Giovanni e Amedeo. ‘Turin: 
Societa Subalpina Editrice, 1941. 

, Journey from London to Genoa, through England, Portugal, Spain, and France. New 
York: Praeger, 1970. 
, An account of the manners and customs of Italy; with observations on the mistakes 
of some travellers, with regard to that country. London: T. Davies, 1768. 
Belli, Francesco. Osservazioni nel viaggio. Venice: Pietro Pinelli, 1632. 
Bollati, Giulio. L Ttakano: ilcarattere nazionale come storia e come invenzione. Turin: Einaudi, 
1983. 
Cachey, Theodore, Jr. “An Italian History of Travel,” Axnah d'Itahanistica 14 (1996): 
55-64. 

Delanty, Gerard. Inventing Europe: Idea, Identity, Reakity. London: Macmillan, 1995. 

Gemelli Careri, Gian Francesco. Viaggi per Europa. Naples: Giuseppe Rosselli, 1701. 

Guagnini, Elvio. “Letteratura di viaggio e storia della letteratura,” Problemi 83 (1988): 
200-212. 

Hampton, Timothy. Literature and Nation in the Sixteenth Century: Inventing Renaissanz 
France. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2001. 

Negn, Francesco. Wzaggio settentrionale. Ed. Enrico Falqui. Turin: Edizioni Alpes, 
19729, 

Polezzi, Loredana. Translating Travel: Contemporary Italian Travel Writing in English 
Translation. Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2001. 

Prosper, Adriano and Paolo Viola. Dalla rivoluzione inglese alla rivoluzione francese. Storia 
itahana. Turin: Einaudi, 1998, 2. 

Tooley, Manian J. “Bodin and the Mediaeval Theory of Climate.” Speculum 28 (1953): 
64-83. 

Van Den Abbeele, Georges. Travel as metaphor: From Montaigne to Rousseau. Minneapolis: 
U of Minnesota P, 1992. 


PIOTR SALWA 


L’esperienza del nuovo: la relazione di 
di viaggio come strumento didascalico 


Ogni lettore di odeporica sa quanto sia difficile fidarsi dei viaggiatori e degli 
autori di autobiografie. A prescindere dai testi stramentalizzati a fini concreti, 
prima o poi suscettibili di controlli, la relazione di viaggio é — tra gli altri testi 
narrativi — anche il racconto di esperienze e imprese inedite e irripetibili, tali 
da suscitare nel lettore stupore, ammirazione, rispetto, invidia. La tentazione 
di scostarsi dal vero per ottenere un maggiore effetto puo essere irresistibile 
quando cié che si vuole raccontare non é passibile di verifiche.' 

Al lettore é quindi lecito essere diffidente prima di rendersi disponibile a 
credere al viaggiatore-narratore, pur tenendo presente il fatto che senza tale 
disponibilita non sarebbe immaginabile una gran parte della nostra conoscenza 
del mondo. Del resto, l’'apprendimento della storia e della geografia non é altro 
che una serie di atti di fiducia nei confronti degli insegnanti e dei libri di testo 
senza che si voglia mai (0 si possa) verificare concretamente cid che ci viene 
dato da credere. La condizione del lettore diventa ancor piu delicata, se si tengono 
presenti due altre circostanze: la menzogna deve per forza essere credibile dal 
momento stesso in cui il suo autore aspira ad essere creduto, e la verita di una 
narrazione si puo rivelare a diversi livelli del testo. Cosi, in un racconto fantastico 
sono ammissibili (e, in realta, indispensabili) elementi realistici, mentre invece 
una relazione realistica puo contenere elementi di fiction. Tuttavia, prima di pensare 
alle domande preliminari che un lettore attento dovrebbe porsi di fronte ad una 
relazione di viaggio, nel tentativo di districare la complessa questione di verita, 
verisimiglianza e credibilita (con con quali intenti é nata una relazione di viaggio? 
a quale fine? il motivo del viaggio é un /opos puramente letterario o si tratta di 
una vera relazione di un vero viaggio ?), sara opportuno chiedersi fino a che 
punto queste distinzioni abbiano un significato per l’uso che della relazione 


1. Ma si sarebbe tentati di generalizzare: “Tout voyageur qui raconte ses pérégrinations est 
un menteur, sans doute parce que la littérature vient remodeler l’expérience vécue et 
qu’entre la réalité et sa description se glissent un intertexte, des modeéles, des scénarios, des 
stéréotypes, une grille de perceptions et de critéres d'intelligibilité” (Christian Jacob, “Le 
Voyage et le palimpseste”, in Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud, éd., Les modéles du réat de 
voyage (Paris: Centre de Recherches du Département de Frangais de Paris X, 1990), 32. 





Annali ditalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


302 PIOTR SALWA 


si intende fare. Mentre un’informazione puntuale é essenziale per una guida 
o per un manuale di geografia, la verita fattuale non sembra altrettanto essenziale 
per un racconto di carattere didattico o per un romanzo d’avventura. Con parole 
semplici lo ribadiva gia Franco Sacchetti: 


Ben potrebbe essere che una novella sara intitolata in Giovanni, e uno dira: 
ella intervenne a Piero; questo sarebbe piccolo errore, ma non sarebbe che 
la novella non fosse stata.” 


Che il discorso didattico sia, per cosi dire, iscritto nella natura della relazione 
di viaggio é un fatto dovuto a vari fattori. A parte la tendenza generale — 
particolarmente forte in alcuni periodi della storia culturale europea — di trattare 
ogni vicenda umana come paradigmatica e di cercare in ogni testo qualche sua 
utilita “morale”, storicamente il viaggio rappresentava in realta un’esperienza 
importante e unica. Si trattava spesso di una sfida rischiosa, affrontata piu per 
necessita che per piacere, una sfida che metteva a prova l’intelligenza e il coraggio 
del viaggiatore, aprendogli allo stesso tempo mondi nuovie sconosciuti. II 
compimento dell’impresa avveniva al momento del ritorno. Trattandosi di 
un’esperienza non comune, essa entrava a far parte della coscienza collettiva 
soltanto al momento in cui la relazione del viaggio cominciava a diffondersi. 
Per molti essa costituiva l’'unico contatto con il mondo esterno e l’unico modo 
di appropriarsi delle conoscenze nuove acquisite dal viaggiatore. A rendere 
ancora piu stretto il legame tra la relazione di viaggio e il discorso didattico 
contribui senz’altro il fatto che l’intera esistenza umana, individuale e collettiva, 
veniva rappresentata metaforicamente come una specie di viaggio. I] repertorio 
di immagini cui ci si rifertva per rendere il concetto pit espressivo rievocava 
spesse volte particolari di viaggi reali, noti appunto attraverso le relazioni note 
ai destinatari soltanto in modo indiretto, che tanto piu facilmente si caricavano 
di significati simbolici: il mare in burrasca, il porto, i monti, le rocce, i sentieri 
difficili o pericolosi, i bivi sconosciuti dove bisognava scegliere il cammino giusto. 
La metafora — usata per descrivere la condizione umana e per dar espressione 
al sentimento di transitorieta della vita che un giorno doveva finire come il viaggio 
— veniva estesa anche ai testi in cui si voleva presentare un’arte di ben vivere 
e di ben morire, per conferire al viaggio terrestre un senso morale e materiale 
o per renderlo meno penoso. La forma della relazione di viaggio si apriva allora 
al didattismo che esulava nettamente dai limiti delle esperienze dei viaggi reali 


2. Franco Sacchetti, I/ Trecentonovelle, a cura di V. Marucci (Roma: Salerno, 1996), Proemio, 
5. In maniera analoga, del resto, la questione si pone per le narrazioni di carattere storico in 
cui si ribadisce in primo luogo il carattere paradigmatico degli eventi secondo la massima: 
“Quo massima prudentia est |...] ricordarti del tempo passato, ordinare il prezente, provedere al 
tempo che de’ venire” (Croniche di Giovanni Sercambi lucchese, a cura di Salvatore Bongi, 
Lucca: Istituto Storico Italiano, 1892), 1: 82-88. 


LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO 303 


e portava a visioni allegoriche di aspirazione universale. 

E’ difficile immaginare che i vari tentativi di rappresentare una tipologia 
generale di viaggi possano esaurire la questione, ma cid non esclude lutilita 
diuna breve rassegna di situazioni pit tipiche e considerate sotto una angolatura 
particolare, nel nostro caso quella del viaggio come apprendimento. Janina 
Abramowska, ispirandosi ai suggerimenti di Michail Bachtin e di Jurij Lotman, 
propone alcune distinzioni elementari che sembrano un buon punto di partenza 
ai nostri fini.’ Viaggiare significa quindi in primo luogo abbandonare lo spazio 
chiuso e familiare rappresentato dalla propria casa per affrontare una realta 
sconosciuta che implica un continuo confronto tra il nuovo e l’abituale. Cio 
puo risultare da una scelta del viaggiatore, ma pu anche essere effetto del destino 
e di costrizioni di vario tipo; il viaggio pud avere o meno una destinazione precisa 
—un luogo—che a sua volta puo essere deliberato, casuale o forzato; puo terminare 
ono con il ritorno a casa.* Il viaggiatore puo limitarsi ad essere un osservatore 
passivo, ma puo anche diventare protagonista di vicende eccezionali. Per questi 
e altri motivi (stereotipi o pregiudizi di carattere ideologico), le opposizioni casa / 
mondo, immobilita/movimento, stabilita/rischio, abituale/ nuovo, proprio/ 
forestiero, ecc. si possono associare a valutazioni diverse e contrarie, ognuno 
dei poli assumendo, a seconda del caso, un valore positivo o negativo. 
Un’importanza particolare andrebbe poi attribuita ai cosiddetti “programmi”: 
infatti, gli aspetti concreti ei dettagli del “mondo”, del “nuovo”, del “movimento” 
vengono selezionati, percepiti e infine descritti in funzione delle aspettative e 
del modo in cui s’intende lobiettivo programmato del viaggio (educativo, 
penitenziale, per affari, diplomatico, sentimentale, artistico, turistico). Siaggiunga 
infine che il viaggiatore medesimo puo essere percepito dal lettore come individuo 
appartenente alla stessa sua collettivita oppure come un forestiero. Sarebbe 
invece inutile soffermarsi su viaggi che non comportano nessun tipo di esperienza 
nuova, in quanto la relazione di una tale “sequenza di eventi” non potrebbe 
essere altro che una narrazione assolutamente priva di tratti significativi che 
lascerebbe il lettore nel pit grande imbarazzo.’ 

Gia queste distinzioni elementari hanno delle chiare implicazioni di natura 


3. J. Abramowska, Peregrynaga, in M. Gtowiniski, A. Okopien-Stawiniska (eds.), Prrestrzent 
literatura (Wroctaw:Ossolineum, 1978), pp. 125-158; ora in Ead., Powtorzenia i wybory. Studia z 
tematologii i poetyki historycznej (Poznan: Rebis, 1995): 294-340. 

4. Questi fattori sembrano determinanti per le forme del viaggio come la fuga, 
l'emigrazione, il bando, il pellegrinaggio per condanna praticato nel medioevo o il 
vagabondaggio. Si noti anche che l’incidenza di queste forme del viaggio non é uguale nella 
prospettiva degli studi centrati sulle relazioni di viaggio come testi (paraletterari o letterari) 
e nell'ottica degli studi interessati al viaggio come fenomeno sociale. 

5. Sara una coincidenza che Umberto Eco cita come esempio di una sequenza narrativa 
irrilevante proprio la descrizione di una partenza abituale in cui non succede nulla di 
inatteso o inusuale (108)? Ma questo é sicuramente il caso della maggior parte dei viaggi che 
si intraprendono oggi, compresi i viaggi turistici che sembrano servire in primo luogo a 
verificare le opinioni espresse in guide e manuali. 


304 PIOTR SALWA 


didattica che vanno al di la di una generica formazione degli atteggiamenti mentali. 
Del resto, trattandosi spesso di iniziative che esulano dal campo del privato, 
é un didattismo destinato tanto agli individui quanto alle istituzioni e alle 
collettivita.  Distribuendo valutazioni positive e negative all’interno 
dell’opposizione “immobilita vs. movimento”, una relazione di viaggio puo 
ben invogliare a vivere personalmente esperienze simili o ad appoggiare e 
organizzare imprese del genere, ma in altri casi essa puo altrettanto bene tentare 
di scoraggiare dall’intraprendere tali progetti. I giudizi e gli accenti relativi 
allalternativa “abituale vs. nuovo” possono invitare a modificare un determinato 
modo di ragionare, certe convinzioni e abitudini, oppure possono rafforzare 
gli stereotipi e i chchés. Il confronto “casa vs. mondo” puo dimostrare la possibilita 
di migliorare lo spazio domestico e l'utilita di modificarlo, ma puo anche rafforzare 
il senso di appartenenza ad un gruppo e di diversita rispetto agli altri, spingendo 
verso una maggiore apertura o verso una maggiore chiusura nei confronti del 
mondo esterno. Lo scontro “proprio vs. forestiero” puo incitare all’espansione 
della propria ideologia 0 all’abbandono dello spazio domestico abituale. La maniera 
di valutare “stabilita vs. rischio” puo incoraggiare a intraprendere o a evitare 
determinati tipi di attivita professionale. Naturalmente, in ogni caso una relazione 
di viaggio puo tentare di sminuire o di accentuare la distanza che separa gli opposti 
e in ogni caso il discorso didattico che essa veicola puo rivelarsi efficace o 
inefficace. 

I] discorso didattico iscritto in una relazione di viaggio puo inoltre avere 
un carattere pil o meno astratto, in quanto le informazioni e gli insegnamenti 
che esso contiene si possono tradurre in comportamenti pratici, ma possono 
anche limitarsi a costituire soltanto un sapere teorico.° La loro applicabilita dipende 
dalla misura in cui essi si riferiscono o meno a situazioni che il destinatario é 
presunto affrontare personalmente; essa varia inoltre in funzione di diversi fattori, 
condizionata fra l'altro dal fatto se il discorso didattico 
abbia per riferimento una dinamica irripetibile di eventi eccezionali oppure si 
fondi su un’osservazione di situazioni considerate stabili, ridotte a categorie 
mentali ben familiar, rendendo l’ignoto addomesticato almeno in parte. Benché 
le caratteristiche del testo indichino il pit delle volte un’applicabilita maggiore 
o minore, l’effetto reale dipende principalmente dall’uso che ne fa il lettore (Eco 
59-60). Dal punto di vista pragmatico sarebbe allora assai utile la distinzione 
tra ilettori interessati ad affrontare le stesse esperienze materiali del viaggiatore, 
e quindi viageiatori virtuali anche loro, e quelli che della relazione di viaggio 
intendono fare qualche uso senza mai abbandonare il loro spazio domestico. 
I] didattismo delle relazioni di viaggio sembra in effetti sostanzialmente diverso 
a seconda di queste due categorie di destinatari: quelli che per motivi diversi 


6. Il discorso didattico puo svolgere infatti varie funzioni in quanto “causing to know’, 
“causing to do,” oppure “causing to beheve’ (Daniel Patte, “Aspects of a Semiotic of Didactic 
Discourse”, in Centro Internazionale di Semiotica e di Linguistica, Universita di Urbino, 
Working Papers and pre-publications, n. 97-99, ott.-dic. 1980, serie B, p. 2) 


LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO 305 


vogliono imparare a viaggiare, e quelli che intendono approfittare solo “per 
procura” delle esperienze altrui. In quest’ultimo caso la lettura e l’interpretazione 
delle relazioni di viaggio assumono delle caratteristiche che privilegiano gli aspetti 
letterari dei testi presi in considerazione. II didattismo puo estendersi allora ben 
oltre i limiti di un sapere circoscritto ai luoghi esotici o puramente tecnico: 
geografico, storico, economico, navale, commerciale, linguistico, relativo alle 
scienze naturali, artistico o altro. E’ in questa prospettiva che 1 rapporti tra le 
relazioni di viaggio e il discorso didattico diventano pit ricchi, pit complessi, 
variegati e interessanti.’ 

Naturalmente una relazione di viaggio descrive in maniera piu o meno 
dettagliata un itinerario e un mondo pid o meno distante.* Anche quando si 
tratta di una relazione che si vuole priva di ogni ambizione letteraria, limitandosi 
alla realta pid immediata e alla verita pid elementare, dietro la sua apparente 
oggettivita si nascondono inevitabilmente vari tipi di selezione — piu o meno 
deliberata e consapevole — del materiale da raccontare. Le vicende che 
costituiscono la storia del viaggio vengono sin dall’inizio condizionate dalla 
scelta della destinazione e dell’itinerario, dal modo in cui viene separato dal resto 
€ percepito cid che si ritiene rilevante (e che viene allora giudicato e memorizzato 
in maniera particolare), dalla selezione dei fatti e degli aspetti della peregrinazione 
che vengono effettivamente descritti. L’intento didattico si pud manifestare in 
ognuna delle fasi (dal momento stesso della scelta della destinazione e 
dell'itinerario per l'intero corso del viaggio), ma sembra sicuramente pit frequente, 
pit forte e pit consapevole nella decisione di portare le esperienze del viaggio 
alla portata di tutti. Il lavoro che la preparazione e la pubblicazione di una relazione 
richiedono deve pur trovare una giustificazione diversa dall’aver semplicemente 
compiuto il viaggio. L’insegnamento pud dunque essere tanto un risultato 
programmato del viaggio, quanto un suo effetto secondario che assume qualche 
importanza soltanto quando l’impresa é ben conclusa. Spesse volte il didattismo 
non é, infatti, che un’aggiunta posteriore e, in un certo senso, estranea alla stessa 
peregrinazione, un’ovvia espressione del senno del poi che non solo puo indurre 
a rivedere le proprie esperienze sotto una luce diversa, ma che puo addirittura 
modificarne il ricordo. In tal modo una relazione di viaggio propone un modello 
del mondo con cui si pud confrontare “il nostro” in maniera analoga a come 
avviene per i mondi fittizi di carattere letterario: si tratta di un mondo possibile, 


7. Meno interessanti sembrano i casi in cui il viaggio viene considerato un’esperienza 
negativa o inutile nella sua totalita, in quanto un rifiuto univoco e definitivo tende a privare 
della loro rilevanza i vari dettagli e i diversi aspetti della peregrinazione. Significativi sono 
invece i casi in cui il giudizio finale, pur negativo, sembra piu problematico in quanto é 
risultato di un bilancio di aspetti positivi e negativi del viaggio. 

8. Anche a questo proposito bisogna fare, tuttavia, alcune riserve: nel viaggio penitenziale o 
in quello sentimentale l'esperienza del viaggiatore riguarda di meno il mondo circostante e 


di piu il suo “mondo” interiore. 


306 PIOTR SALWA 


ma percepito come esistente, anche se sconosciuto.’ 

I molteplici incroci e parentele tra la relazione di viaggio e il discorso didattico 
invitano in maniera, per cosi dire, naturale a sfruttare la forma di relazione in 
funzione puramente strumentale facendone, indipendentemente dall'uso allegorico 
cui sié accennato prima, un espediente per eccellenza narrativo su cui costruire 
un messaggio ideologico. Sarebbe impossibile rischiare una tipologia anche 
in questo caso, dato che siva dalla fiaba popolare al cinema moderno, attraverso 
viagei nel tempo e nello spazio in tutti i sensi possibili. Cio che sembra invece 
costante e essenziale, é il rovesciamento del rapporto di causa a effetto nella 
fase della nascita del testo: non sono le peripezie e le esperienze del viaggio a 
condizionare l'insegnamento, ma sono le tesi da dimostrare che determinano 
le vicende e il mondo inventati a tale fine. Il meccanismo di lettura sembra invece 
ignorare questa differenza generativa e fondamentale. 

Un curioso testo che gioca assai apertamente con le convenzioni della 
relazione di viaggio é il Commentario delle pin notabih e mostruose cose che si vedono 
in Itaha et altri luoghi di ingua Aramea in Itakana tradotto nel qual s'impara et prendest 
istremo piacere di Ortensio Lando. II carattere giocoso di questo testo é sottolineato 
anche dall’aggiunta di un sottotitolo, Catalogo dell inventort delle cose che si mangiano 
et si bevono, novamente ritrovato et da M. Anonymo d’Utopia composto, e dalla lettera 
dedicatoria al conte Lodovico Rangono: 


Pensando come io vi possa ragioire et dar qualche spasso, mi sono risoluto 
nell'animo mio non poter cio meglio fare che porgendovi qualche piacevol 
lettione per la quale vi rallegriate l'antmo spesso percosso da dun colpi di 
fortuna [...] 


Pit ambigua sembra invece un/altra lettera, posta alla fine del testo, che sembra 
smentire allusivamente — anche se in tono giocoso —l’apparente spensieratezza 
dell’autore 


Godi, Lettore, il presente commentario nato dal costantissimo cervello di 


9. Teoricamente si tratterebbe di un argomento importantissimo in quanto esso 
garantirebbe che le conclusioni fossero credibili e applicabili (visto che nel trattare il reale la 
soggettivita del narratore deve pur contenersi entro certi limiti, e che non si trattasse invece 
di una fiction inventata per illustrare e giustificare una tesi premessa sin dall'inizio. In pratica 
la questione é pit complessa, perché il richiamo alla verita diventa presto una convenzione 
puramente formale, accettata e facilmente riconoscibile, diffusa e manipolata in vari modi 


(tra l'altro molti autori denunciano le false dichiarazioni di verita nei loro predecessori per 
comportarsi poi esattamente nella stessa maniera). La decisione spetta dunque al lettore che 
spesso non ha altri punti di riferimento che la verosimiglianza. Si tratta tuttavia di un 
criterio estremamente impreciso e labile: la carica persuasiva delle argomentazioni fondate 
sulla verita e le rispettive convenzioni letterarie sono oggetto di interessanti osservazioni di 
W. Nelson, Fact or Fiction. The Dilemma of the Renaissance Storyteller (Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
1973). 





LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO 307 


M.OLL. [...]; rincrescemi che tu non lo possi godere come il suo Archetipo 
stava, imperoché il rispetto nha fatto mozzare una buona parte, il sospetto 
un'altra et il dispetto ha fatto squarcio di pit di tre fogli. Se ci fusse cosa veruna 
che ti paresse Favola, sovengati della nave delle carote nel cominciamento 
[proveniente dall’isola di Utopia]. [...] Se in qualche cosa ti parera mordace 
furioso et maldicente, habbili compassione, perché egli era all'hora in croce 
quando queste cose scrivea et era pieno di desperatione. 


Infatti, nell'intera opera i toni scherzosi si mescolano a quelli seri, le fantasie 
grottesche al realismo impegnato, gli accenti personali ai ragionamenti di carattere 
pit generale. Cid non sfocia tuttavia nell’ambiguita, perché non solo la narrazione 
rimane sempre esplicita, portando il grottesco, il fantastico e lo scherzoso 
all’esasperazione, ma in ogni eventualita di dubbio un breve commento al margine 
del testo fornisce i dovuti chiarimenti. Sembra piuttosto una tattica adoperata 
dall’autore per sfuggire ad eventuali attacchi e difficolta. Un altro espediente 
della stessa tattica consiste nel nascondersi dietro il personaggio del narratore, 
presentato come uno straniero venuto in Italia per visitarla e che la guarda — 
e poi la racconta — con occhi apparentemente ingenui ma in realta sensibili e 
a volte maliziosi.'’ E’ un giovane che spera di trovare in Italia il migliore paese 
del mondo, ma sin dall’inizio é chiaro che le sue speranze rimarranno vane; come 
in tanti casi reali, l'idea del viaggio é frutto di letture incontrollate— di descrizioni 
affascinanti di un paese lontano e mai visto — e il confronto tra il fantasticare 
e il concreto sara a volte duro. 


Havendo piu fiate letto nelle antiche storie tante maravigliose cose dalli Italiani 
virilmente oprate, et essendomi da mio avolo molte volte detto esser I'Italia 
la piu bella parte, la piu ricca et la piu civile che ritrovar si possi, nacquemi 
nel petto un ardentissimo desio et vennemi un’istrema voglia non sol di vederla, 
ma di habitarla mentre vivessi. (c 2) 


Anche i preparativi del viaggio seguono le abitudini reali, diventandone 
tuttavia una deformazione grottesca che serve a illustrare l'ingenuita del 
protagonista. I] primo passo é la scelta di una guida competente, 


un Fiorentino chiamato Tetigio, ottimo maestro di piantar carote, [...] faceto 
motteggiatore et piacevole molto, [...] ossequente piu che il vento et obediente 
pia che la lepre alla campagna et che tutta I'Ttalia gli era non meno nota che 
se fussero le stanze delli Antipodi et che haveva notitia di tutte le famiglie 
illustri, di tutti gli huomini bellicosi et litterati et delle piu belle et vaghe donne 
et che mi avvertirebbe fedelmente secondo la varieta delli costumi Italiani 
li quali pia spesso si cambiano che non fa il Camaleonte, (c. 2) 


10. Troppi segnali indicano tuttavia Ortensio Lando come autore: non solo la lettera posta 
alla chiusura del Commentario, ma anche la sigla posta alla fine del volume (SUISNETROH 


SUDNAL TSE — da leggersi nel senso inverso) 


308 PIOTR SALWA 


dopo di che si aspettano le condizioni propizie per la partenza e la conclusione 
del commercio che fanno i marinai, 


di quelle cose che in Italia mancava: per Napoli tolsero di belle prospettive 
delle quali si diletta quella natione sopra tutte l'altre, per Roma tolsero le pia 
belle cortegiane che n’havessimo nel regno quasi che le ci mancassero, per 
Siena di molti fumi e di molte catene, per Firenze mille catarri di speranza 
vana, per Perugia morsi et briglie, per Lucca di molte odorifere misture per 
profumare il loro meravighoso volto, per Vinegia non vollero nulla affermando 
che bastava portarvi delle carote che trapiantate in quel terreno falso et dolce 
crescevano ad estrema bellezza. (c. 2) 


Pure in questo caso, tuttavia, i toni giocosi e evidentemente canzonatori si 
trasformano in affermazioni di cui si riconosce subito la diversita di tono 


Milano [...] una citta grande populosa et molto ricca prima che la Francia, 
Spagna et Allemagna li succhiassero non solo il latte ma il sangue. Hora per 
conchiuderla spogliarno quasi tutto 'l paese di virtuose radici, herbe et liquori 
affermando esser |'Ttalia tutta da vari morbi oppressa et impiagata et non vedersi 
in lei parte veruna che sana fusse. (c. 2) 


Nella cornice di un itinerario realistico che porta attraverso tutta la 
Penisola— incominciando dalla Sicilia, attraverso la Calabria, la Lucania, la Puglia, 
PAbruzzo, la Campania, il Lazio, verso il Nord, e poi verso la Sardegna e la 
Corsica — si svolge poi la relazione di viaggio secondo schemi convenzionali 
pit diffusi e con riferimenti a fonti classiche: cominciando dalla descrizione 
del sito, delle condizioni naturali, della popolazione, delle cose eccezionali e 
degne di particolare attenzione (c. 7). Non manca neanche una breve istruzione 
di come organizzarsi per il viaggio, sempre conforme alla convenzione, ma al 
tempo stesso comica per la sua spicciola spregiudicatezza: 


[...] se ti abatti esser di brigata in qualche albergo et vi sia poco pane, tienlo 
in mano, se poco vino, beve spesso, se poca came, appiccati all'osso, se hai 
poco letto, ponti nel mezo. Se l'estate cavalchi con grossa compagnia, metteti 
avanti et la vernata mani adietro. Se ritrovi qualche difficile et pericoloso 
passo honora il compagno, lascialo andar avanti et cosi se ti abatti di haver 
a passar qualche rapido et torbido fiume; (c. 7) 


e per sequenze di consigli assurdi che interrompono avvertimenti piu seri e 
sembrano contraffare formule di saggezza popolare di poco valore: 


Guardati da Lombardo calvo, Toscano losco, Napolitano biondo, Siciliano 
rosso, Romagnuolo ricciuto, Vinitiano guercio et marcheggiano zoppo. [...] 
Non rifiutar di disinare con Abbati, cenar con mercatanti, merendar con comari 
et far colatione con innamorati. [...] Guardati dell'andar in Norsia, Cassia et 








LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO 309 


Visse, perche Dio le maledisse; guardati di Calle, Seno et Moncalino, un ladro, 
un traditore et un assassino. (c. 7) 


Tipici saranno poi sia il fittizio obiettivo cui sarebbe nata la relazione stessa 


[...] che questa é la mia principale intentione di osservare acciO che i miei 
cittadini habbino quella maggior cognitione che possibile lor sia delle cose 
italiane, senza solcar tanti mani et passar per tanti boschi, dove appena vanno 
secure la bande armate; (c. 17) 


sia l’accento posto sul fatto che in essa non si puo rendere conto dell'intera 
esperienza, ma presentare soltanto una selezione di fatti, sia il proposito di 
abbandonare I'Italia e tornarsene a casa per motivi fra cui il serio e lo scherzoso 
hanno parti uguali: 


[...] se volessi scrivere quanto ho veduto farei piu alto volume che non fece 
Livio Patavino, stracco adunque di gir pi vagando deliberai d'inviarmi ver 
casa, dove giunto, fui lietamente da parenti et da amici accarezzato, del che 
sempre ne sia lodato Iddio il quale vive et regna fin ne' secoli de' secoli. Amen. 
(c. 47) 


Per tutta la relazione di viaggio le due tonalita — seria e giocosa — sono 
costantemente presenti. Realistiche descrizioni geografiche, reminiscenze letterarie, 
aneddoti storici, elogi e encomi dedicati ai protettori e alle protettrici dell'autore 
sialternano a frequenti assurdita, scherzi sull'onomastica locale e lunghi elenchi 
di cose strane e, con tutta evidenza, inverosimili.'’ A volte essi evocano corti 
di miracoli o collezioni di bizzarre curiosita, confermando la predilezione 
dell'autore per la forma di catalogo e il suo gusto di collezionista di oggetti e 
fenomeni fuori della normalita.'* Da una parte questa diversita di accenti é una 
chiara parodia delle relazioni di viaggio e del modo d'interpretarle senza il dovuto 
senso critico; dall'altra, invece, essa lascia al lettore il compito di individuarne 


11. Per esempio in Val Caspia il viaggiatore incontra due cugine di cui una partori un 
serpente e l'altra un elefante, una gran quantita di ermafroditi, uomini che generarono figli 
alla venerabile eta di 89 e 80 anni, persone che non hanno mai sete e non sudano, molti che 
non ridono e non piangono mai, una vacca che fece sei vitelli in una volta sola, ecc. Quanto 
ai frequenti scherzi onomastici mantenuti sullo stesso tono si veda, p. es,.: “Vidi andar per 
Napoli le galeotte senza vele et senza remi per l’asciutto [casa Galeotti], mostruoso mi parve 
vedere molte caraffe e molte pignatelle bollir senza fuoco [casa Caraffa e Pignatelli, 
mostruoso mi parve che in una si amena regione vi habitasse anchora Gennaro [casa 
Gennaro], [...] hocci veduto un porco et un falcone nella dottrina di Aristotile molto 
eccellenti [Simone Porco, M. Antonio delli Falconi]” (c. 12-13). 


12. Ortensio Lando, Sette Libri de cathaloghi a varie cose appartenenti non solo antiche ma anche 
moderne: opera utile molto alla Historia e da cui prender si po materia di favellare d'ogni proposito che a 
occorra (Venezia, 1552). 


310 PIOTR SALWA 


in base alla propria conoscenza della realta che vi vien descritta — dato che il 
testo non é ovviamente destinato agli esotici aramei, bensi ai lettori italiani — 
le parti che sotto l'intento parodistico nascondo qualcosa in pit. Cosi il discorso 
didattico del Lando si svolge in forma “labirintica” e irregolare seguendo 
frammenti di carattere addirittura moralizzante. 

Le osservazioni e gli slanci moralizzatori del narratore partono di solito 
dalla costatazione dei fatti e delle situazioni che lo scandalizzano 0 provocano 
la sua disapprovazione. Le premesse dei suoi giudizi sono in apparenza fondate 
soltanto su quella ingenuita che esprime il buon senso comune. Frequentemente 
essi riguardano 1 problemi generali, di natura umana o di carattere politico e 
sociale, esaurendosi nelle lamentele convenzionali sulla corruzione dei costumi, 
sull’ingiustizia e sulla prepotenza. Pur esprimendo giudizi di valore e denunciando 
i mali da eliminare, esse rimangono su un livello piuttosto astratto e riciclano 
clichés diffusi. I siciliani sono dunque gelosissimi e “Visola é piena di ladri, né 
spaventar lor possono manare, prigioni, forche, ceppi et catene”, icalabresi sono 
“infami di micidii, ladronecci, et della pit sporca et abominevol lussuria”, e 
in generale 


fragili pu che il vetro et ignudi nasciamo et dal pianto et dall’essere strettamente 
colle fascie legati diamo principio alla miserabile et dolente nostra vita. Noi 
piu delli antmali brut infelici, nulla sappiamo fare se prima non |’apprendiamo, 
non sappiamo favellare, non caminare, non cibarsi, sol piangere sappiamo, 
ambittiosi poi, avari, lussuriosi, superstitiosi. Niuno animale ha conseguito 
dalla natura vita piu debole et caduca dell’huomo, et poi tanto altieri siamo, 
tanto aroganti et orgogliosi [...]. (c 19) 


In altri casi, invece, il narratore parla di maniera ben pit concreta, criticando 
alcuni fenomeni che caratterizzano le societa delle varie parti della Penisola: 


Dura et mostruosa cosa mi parve che in Roma santa si comportassero tante 
meretrici et in tanta stima fussero et a tanta faculta pervenessero che paiano 
Reine (mercé dell’humana incontinentia et intemperantia) laquale lascia sovente 
mendicare i virtuosi, lascia miserabilmente languire i poveri infermi nelli spedali, 
et arrichisce le concubine, nodrica le carogne con offesa d’Iddio, con infamia 
del nome christiano et spesso con grave danno de’ propri corpi. (c. 15) 


Pare a molti popoli che queste cittadelle (che cosi hoggi si chiamano) facciano 
1 signori di quelle licentiosi insolenti et meno circumspetti in offendere i sudditi, 
fidandosi di ricoverarsi in quelle se alcun tumulto popularesco contro d’essi 
si levasse. (c. 17) 


Molte cose pero vi trovai che strane (per non dir peggio) mi parvero. Io vi 
vidi tener le razze d'huomini per venderli come si vendono cavalli, buoi, muli 
et altn irragionevoli animali, il che parvemi pessimamente fatto. [...] Strana 





LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO S11 


et mostruosa cosa mi parve il veder condur le donne a prezzo, perché pianghino 
li altrui defunti. (c. 10) 


rammaricandosi delle disfatte militari italiane dovute alla mancanza della disciplina, 
o esprimendo la delusione per 1 risultati del 


[...] tanto desiderato Concilio pel cui mezo si sperava dovesse riunirsi il diviso 
christianesimo et riformar la vilta de' mali chierici et non sol de’ chierici ma 
de’ principi christiani usurpatori delli altrui. (c. 32) 


Attacchi particolarmente duri vengono sferrati contro i duelli: 


come 10 vidi spicciar il sangue con si larga vena de' corpi loro, io hebbi a venir 
meno di dolore et di sdegno et dal crudel steccato partitomi, incominciai a 
considerar fra me stesso la miseria et infelicita humana: discorreva nell'animo 
mio come tutti gli animali vivessero nella propria spetie tanto amichevolmente 
et con tanta unione [...] et dall'humo nascere sempre all'huomo danno rovina 
et spesse fiate totale esterminio. [...] Non sono questi abattimenti cose da 
huomini ma da fiere, non si ragiona gia de' duelli altrove che in Italia. [...] Hai, 
mostruosa Italia, vituperio del guasto mondo. Quanti n’ho veduti in Italia 
infami e scelerati che havevano ardire di voler ne’ steccati sostenere che huomini 
da bene fussero; (cc. 19-20) 


contro l'ambiente accademico patavino: 


vado alla scuola de’ legisti, sto a udir cid che dicono di bello appartenente 
al viver civile et alla unione dei cittadini, et non odo salvo che contradittioni, 
Puno impugnarsi l'altro et oscurar il vero a piu potere. [...] Vado alla scuola 
de’ philosophi, penso udir favellare di giustizia, di prudentia, di modestia, di 
fortezza, di castita et altre simili cose [...] et ingannato mi trovo, non odo 
favellare salvo che di materia della quale parevami che havessero pieno il capo, 
di forma non so se dicacio o da informar stivalli, di privatione non so parimenti 
se intendessero de' denari o di senno. Entro nella scuola de' Metaphisici nella 
quale pensai udir ragionare della divina maesta, delle celesti gierarchie, della 
perpetua felicita de' beati, ma ecco che per molti giorni io non odo parlare 
de l'altro che di ente et uno. [...] Vennermi a fastido questi tanti scaldabanchi, 
queste rabule, questi loquaci corbi, né potei sofferir di piu udirli [...]; (cc. 36) 


e€ soprattutto contro 1 monaci certosini, in primo luogo rinfacciando loro una 
vita lussuosa, l'allontanamento dagli ideali e dalle norme della chiesa primitiva 
e l'abbandono della loro vera missione: 


Tutta la fatica vostra consiste in cantare ad alta voce un chierieleison et 
mormorar Salmi poco intesi. Et io vi dico che la pieta christiana et quella 
perfettione che tanto essaltate altro richiede, ella vuole carita verso il prossimo 


312 PIOTR SALWA 


et carita non simulata ma sincera, ella vuole un'ardente fede verso Iddio. Voi 
non ministrate i sacramenti della chiesa a' popoli, non manifestate la santissima 
parola d'Iddio et poi mi dite che la vita vostra contine in sé perfettione 
christiana! (c. 33)" 


I] discorso didattico iscritto nel Commentario sembra quindi essere quello 
di una polemica ideologica (ispirata fra l'altro agli ideali della Riforma) e di una 
critica sociale. Sia il suo contenuto che la sua forma presuppongono un lettore 
le cui competenze intellettuali siano di gran lunga superiori a quelle di un semplice 
divoratore della letteratura di viaggio o della letteratura satirica. Non si tratta 
evidentemente di un discorso pragmatico, nel senso che il suo obiettivo non 
sembra quello di modificare i comportamenti concreti di un ampio pubblico. 
Essendo piu celato e ermetico — anche grazie al travestimento da viaggiatore 
esotico adottato dall'autore — esso serve piuttosto a confermare, ribadire e 
rafforzare le idee che i lettori “iniziati” dovevano nutrire gia in precedenza. 

Il didattismo prende, invece, una piega leggermente diversa nella 
conclusione dell'intera opera, in cui il narratore dichiara che 


Egli é vero e negar nol posso che molte cose in Italia mi piacquero stremamente 
ma molto piu furono quelle che mi spiacquero; 


per passare brevemente in rassegna cid che disapprova e che questa volta — 
accanto a qualche frecciata personale — riguarda il piu delle volte la sfera del 
costume quotidiano 


spiacquemi vedere che in Italia le signore havessero ardire di scambiare alle 
lor damigelle il nome di battesimo, [...] per farle fino nei nomi pit belle et 
lussuriose le chiamano Cinthia, Flavia, Fulvia, Flaminia, Camenia, Sulpitia 
et Virginia; 


brutta cosa mi parve che ogni sciagurato si voglia fasciare le reni di raso et 
di veluto, né stimarsi in Italia chi humilmente si veste; 


mi spiacque udir che ogni Buffalaio et ogni bifolco giurasse a fé de gentilhuomo 
et ogni vil putanella a fé de gentildonna, et di veder pompeggiar sopra le faculta 
né in habito essere differenti le donne honeste dalle dishoneste, i nobili dalli 
ignobili, et ogni di mutarsi foggia di vestire 


spiacquemi di veder per forza por le fanciulle nei monasteri et per ogni lieve 
cagione condursi gli huomini in steccato; 


13. Dopo Pattacco antimonacale lautore, memore della sua prudente tattica narrativa, fa 
tuttavia alla fine aggiungere al viaggiatore armeno: “A tutte le mie parole fu molto 
saviamente risposto [...], dimandai perdono se forse ecceduto havea nel parlar la christiana 
modestia et fatto troppo del Satirico”. 





LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO 513 


spiacquemi il veder le donne farsi la bionda et capelli neri con lor mal augurio 
fargli simili alle fiamme, farli di piu ricci rappresentando i serpent che le 
circunderanno le tempie quando saranno dal gran giudice alli eterni supplity 
destinate, 


per terminare rassegnato: 


se io volessi raccontare tutte le cose c‘ho vedute degne di biasimo, non ne 
verrei a capo in tremila giorni.* 


Descrivere I’Italia vista con gli occhi di un viaggiatore straniero é quindi una 
strategia efficace per poter criticare il mal costume a casa propria, invocare il 
miglioramento della vita pubbblica e delle relazioni umane a nome di valori 
fondamentali e naturali. L’autore non vi fa appello alla curiosita del lettore che, 
del resto, non vi trovera delle novita di rilievo, a parte qualche bizzarro incontro 
o qualche avventura personale del narratore, non si sa bene reale o inventata. 
Cid che si vuole insegnare é un particolar modo di guardare e di giudicare la 
realta nota cosi bene da essere riconoscibilie anche attraverso le allusioni. I] 
continuo ricorrere allo scherzo e alla parodia che fa da contorno al quel tipo 
di didattismo, lo rende a volte pit attenuato e meno impegnante, benché apra 
pure lo spazio a forti ed eloquentissimi contrasti di tono. 

E un vero rovesciamento — scherzoso e al ee efficace — dei 
meccanismi argomentativi che puo mettere in moto un'autentica relazione di 
viaggio, realmente compiuto nelle parti del mondo ignote al destinatario, in cui 
il linguaggio allusivo e una varieta di registri darebbero come effetto piuttosto 
l'incomprensione e la confusione che un’efficiente strategia narrativa. Ne era 
perfettamente consapevole un diplomatico come Alberto Vimina (Michele Bianchi, 
1603-1667) che nel redigere la sua breve — e dal nostro punto di vista poco 
originale — Re/azione dell'origine e costumi de’ cosacchi (1656)'° compiva uno sforzo 
costante per essere limpido e univoco, facendo continui riferimenti alla realta 
italiana e riducendo tutto cid che vedeva ai criteri familiari ai suoi lettori. Vimina 
non intende giocare con le convenzioni; anzi, la sua ambizione sarebbe quella 
di “compiere una perfetta relatione” a guisa delle relazioni diplomatiche. Cio 
che egli vuol insegnare é la conoscenza della “nation cosacca” da aggiungere 
alle “polite eruditioni” del destinatario. Si tratta, dunque, di un sapere utile per 
allargare genericamente gli orizzonti ma senza un qualche obiettivo immediato, 


14. Accenti pid generali non mancano tuttavia neanche nella conclusione: “brutta cosa mi 
parve vedere li italiani a si buona derata venuti che alla guerra vadino invitati non da tre 
scudi ma spesso tratti per tre giulij”, “spiacquemi [...] vedersi tanti poveri impiagati per le 
strade mendicare, tante sette de’ Frati et de’ Suore, tanti Epicurei, tanti Sardanapali”, 
“spiacquemi di veder I'Italia divisa in tanti signori” (cc. 38v e segg.) 

15. “Relazione dell'origine e costumi de’ cosacchi”, a c. di L. Alpago Novello, Archivio 
Storico di Belluno, V1 (1934), pp. 581-586; mi servo della copia manoscritta della Biblioteca 
Comunale di Ferrara MS II 255. 


314 PIOTR SALWA 


e, di conseguenza, piuttosto astratto. Percio la relazione inizia in maniera 
accademica con divagazioni etimologiche, cenni storici, e riferimenti letterari 
classicheggianti che ritornano poi regolarmente lungo tutto il testo. Tuttavia, 
al di la delle conoscenze tecniche ed erudite, non mancano poi le osservazioni 
personali del viaggiatore, frutto diun'esperienza acquisita a costo della “molestia 
degli incomodi” inevitabili durante i viaggi nei paesi poco frequentati. Cio che 
colpisce la sua immaginazione, e che lui ritiene sufficientemente significativo 
per essere riportato nel suo racconto, si lascia per lo pit ricondurre ad un costante 
confronto tra il “nuovo” e l’“abituale” in quanto si tratta sempre delle vistose 
differenze rispetto alla sua patria: della fertilita della terra, del carattere guerriero 
degli abitanti, del loro poco amore per il lavoro e del disprezzo delle comodita 
e delle ricchezze, di alcune strane abitudini locali. Quel continuo confronto mentale 
elo sforzo di ridurre l’ignoto al familiare fanno poiall'autore parlare addirittura 
di quello che non trova e che — s'intende — sarebbe normale trovare: niente 
frutteti, vite, case di pietra, niente attivita come artigianato e commercio. L'interesse 
del viaggiatore sembra esaurirsi tuttavia nel solo "diletto della curiosita": mentre 
il mondo abituale viene a coincidere indiscutibilmente con la civilta e con le 
sue inoppugnabili norme, gli esotici indigeni rimangono sempre fuori della 
normalita, o perché semplicemente primitivi e barbari, oppure perché dotati 
dalla natura di alcune caratteristiche da destare stupore.'®. Di fronte ad una realta 
troppo diversa dalle sue abitudini, il viaggiatore si limita a notare le stranezze 
che in fondo restano completamente estranee alla sua sensibilita e, a volte, 
addirittura alle sue capacita di percezione. Eglilo ammette del resto esplicitamente: 
le sue osservazioni non gli permettono di dare una risposta ad alcune domande 
convenzionali tipiche delle relazioni di viaggio, né di andare oltre cio che aveva 
diligentemente imparato da altre fonti.'’ Soprattutto Vimina non riesce— e forse 
non tenta nemmeno abbastanza — di guardare dall’“interno” il mondo che 
descrive. La sua relazione, pur non essendo negli intenti un secco documento 
diplomatico, in realta non trasmette altro che un'arida immagine di esotismo 
curioso e poco allettante. Non implicando nessun tipo di comprensione per 
il mondo descritto, in apparenza essa non implica neanche nessun tipo di 
conclusione. Cid non vuol dire che essa si limiti ad essere la guida di un paese 
che non verra mai visitato da nessuno, la descrizione di una realta fantasiosa 
e poco diversa in fin dei conti dai racconti fantastici, o un manuale di geografia. 
La distanza e l'immobilita della posizione da cui Vimina osserva e giudica il 
“nuovo” é la conferma di una diversita tutta a svantaggio del mondo esterno 
al suo, dal quale non c’é nulla da imparare. Avendo appagato la curiosita det 


16. Come per esempio la “sofferenza della fame, della sete, delle fatiche e delle vigilie” o la 
capacita di sostenere “il digiuno tre giorni pascendosi di pane vilissimo, aglio, cipolla”. 
Naturalmente, il fatto che essi non provino ammirazione né interesse per il mondo 
occidentale non puo essere altro che un ulteriore segno della loro ottusita. 


17. Le quali non vengono esplicitamente citate ma la cui presenza si lascia indovinare dietro 
alcune osservazioni circa la religione ed alcune usanze dei cosacchi. 





LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO 515 


lettori, il narratore pare avergli tolto al tempo stesso ogni motivo per ripetere 
la sua esperienza. 

Pia facilmente sembra prestarsi al discorso didattico il confronto con una 
realta meno lontana. Nel 1652 Giacomo Fantuzzi (1616-1679) visita varie regioni 
della Polonia, della Germania, dei Paesi Bassi e dell'Austria, sfruttando e 
allungando il suo viaggio di ritorno in Italia da Varsavia, dove aveva svolto per 
diversi anni la funzione dell'uditore della nunziatura. Nel suo Diario de/ viaggto 
exropeo, pur seguendo un "questionario" assai convenzionale - spesse volte in 
maniera addirittura schematica e monotona -, egli riesce a formulare un complesso 
discorso didascalico. Una testimonianza delle sue aspirazioni didattiche é gia 
il fatto stesso che accanto al Diario egli abbia compilato (benché su istigazione 
del conte Angelo Ranuzzi) una Instruttione et avvertimenti per far viaggi lunght. Pia 
espliciti sembrano comunque sia la dichiarazione con cui essa si apre 


[La peregrinatione] rappresentandoci ogn'hora, ogni momento nuovi oggetti 
fra loro medesimi diversi e quasi sempre lontani dalla nostra immaginatione, 
ci fa chiaramente conoscere che le persone, i geni, i costumi, le profession, 
i riti, le religioni, i modi di vivere, di governarsi e di vestirsi non sono mai 
quasi li medesimi, e quanto pit sono differenti e lontani da' nostri tanto piu 
ci riescono di diletto e di meraviglia, (170) 


sia il consiglio di prendere con sé 


un libretto di memorie da scrivere con lapis le cose notabili che andera vedendo 
peril viaggio e per le citta e luoghi, per riportarle poi al suo Diario o Itinerario, 
che porti seco sempre il calamaro, il lapis con carta e cera di Spagna. (173) 


Nell'Instruttione Fantuzzi si limita agli aspetti pratici della sua esperienza 
di viaggiatore concentrandosi su quelle cognizioni che potrebbero rivelarsi utili 
a chi volesse intraprendere un’iniziativa simile alla sua.'* In un'esposizione precisa 
e dettagliata egli spiega come risolvere i problemi attinenti all'itinerario, alla scelta 
dei compagni, alle questioni finanziarie, alla servitu, alle difficolta linguistiche, 
al vestiario, alla diversita delle abitudini locali e dei modi di comportarsi, ai dettagli 
spiccioli della vita in carrozza e in osterie, all'igiene e alla salute, ai cavalli e ai 
bagagli, al modo di mangiare e di bere, ai problemi climatic. E un piccolo manuale 
del viaggiatore che, del resto, non sembra ancora privo di attualita in tutti i suoi 
particolari. 

Gli avvertimenti per i viaggiatori— come si evince da varie apostrofi: italiani 
e cattolici— non mancano neanche nel Diario in cui il concetto stesso del viaggio 


18. Senza dimenticare anche le cose pit spicciole: “é di cosi grande importanza il sapersi fare 
la barba da sé medesimo o che il servitore la sappia fare”, “il vestito sia da strapazzo, di 
panno schietto e di poco valore [...] accid che [...] non si argomenti dalla qualita dell'habito 
quello della borsa”, “porti seco sempre [...] carta straccia per li bisogni corporali” (pp. 172, 
173) 


316 PIOTR SALWA 


sembra rispecchiare l’idea che piu importante di conoscere un luogo sia sempre 
conoscere il suo ambiente umano." Percid non basta osservarlo freddamente 
e dall’esterno, conta di pit rendere visite a personalita locali, avere dei contatti 
privati, incontrare delle persone e sentire i loro discorsi per capire il loro modo 
di ragionare e di comportarsi.” I ragionamenti del Fantuzzi vanno bel al di la 
dei dettagli tecnici: egli cerca costantemente di avvicinare il "nuovo" non soltanto 
con curiosita, ma anche con apertura e buona disposizione, senza fermarsi alle 
sole apparenze, cercando lati positivi anche la dove nutre non pochi pregiudizi. 
Cio riguarda non soltanto la realta della Polonia dove egli aveva sempre trovato 
—acredere le sue stesse dichirazioni— ospitalita e amicizia, ma anche l'aborrito 
mondo protestante.”' Pur intransingente per quanto riguarda le questioni della 
fede, Fantuzzi insegna al suo lettore di non generalizzare troppo facilmente i 
luoghi comuni e 1 cdchés, nota la gentilezza e la benevolenza di molti suoi 
interlocutori "eretici", loda i loro buoni costumie la modestia, ammira una perfetta 
organizzazione della vita pubblica, l'ordine e la pulizia, il rispetto del prossimo, 
la sicurezza e la liberta delle donne.” A volte giustifica addirittura l'ostilita dei 
protestanti verso i cattolici.” Il suo giudizio si fonda su elementari valori morali 
e sociali, sempre disponibile alla comprensione e alla tolleranza per tutto cio 
che non ritiene essenziale. Dal Diario emerge cosi assai chiaramente un’apertura 
verso il mondo esterno e soprattutto un modello sociale da imitare, nonostante 
il fatto che esso provenga da un mondo per molti versi inaccettabile.™ Il viaggio 


19. L'Instruttione cipropone infatti in forma piu generalizzata gli stessi avvertimenti che si 


ritrovano nel Diario; cfr. “io darei per avvertimento ad un nostro cattolico”, “a’ quali si da per 
avvertimento” (pp. 40, 47) 


20. Utilissimi risultano anche i contatti con altre persone in viaggio: “Un altro utile grande si 
cava dalla tavola e conversatione con persone civili e nobili, et é€ che dal loro discorso si 
impara assai, come che essendo tutti forestieri, ciascheduno non solo discorre del suo paese, 
delle qualita, costumi et usanze di esso, ma ancora delli paesi che ha veduto, e di quello dove 
si ritrovano, pigliandosi informatione minutissima uno dell'altro di tutto quello che é 
necessario” (p. 41) 


21. Soltanto il soggiorno a Emden sembra aver lasciato in Fantuzzi un pessimo ricordo e 
provocato un animato attacco contro 1 calvinisti (p. 62). 


22. Benché le sue conclusioni possano essere sorprendenti: dopo aver lodato gli abitanti di 
Danzica (“bellissimi”, “di grandissimo giudizio e prudenza e molto politici”, di costumi 
“buoni et esemplari”) Fantuzzi afferma “il diavolo permette che rieschi loro bene, per 
confirmarl maggiormente nella loro ostinatione in non conoscere 0 non voler conoscere la 


vera religione” (p. 33). 


23. “Maggiormente si accresce quest’odio delli heretici di conditione ordinaria e bassa contro 
li cattolici dall'intendere che noi altri in Spagna et in Italia habbiamo tanto abborrimento 
contro di loro, che non solo non permettiamo che gli heretici vi habitino et habbiano il 
commercio con li cattolici, ma il peggio, che li abbrucciamo vivi, il che fa che ci abborriscono 


magpiormente” (p. 42). 


24. “E gia che si tratta di una citta principale degli heretici, nella quale si vive con gran civilta 
e politica, ad imitatione di tutte le altre citta e paesi heretici, é bene discorrere succintamente 


delli heretici, del modo loro di vivere e trattare con li cattolici”. (p. 40) 








LA RELAZIONE DI VIAGGIO COME STRUMENTO DIDASCALICO S17 


diventa un’esperienza educativa che vale non solo per il viaggiatore e i suoi 
eventuali seguaci. 

Giacomo Fantuzzi fonda la sua strategia argomentativa su un linguaggio 
preciso e realistico, citando date e luoghi in maniera tale da rendere possibile 
la ricostruzione del suo viaggio quasi giorno per giorno. Tuttavia, dal punto 
di vista persuasivo, egli sembra pit vicino, paradossalmente, ad un Ortensio 
Lando che ricorreva, come si é visto, ad un codice assai diverso, che non ad 
un Alberto Vimina di cui condivideva apparentemente le scelte stilistiche e 
retoriche. Benché Fantuzzi e Lando nei loro testi trattino la verita in maniera 
differente — per mezzo di allusioni miste al grottesco o adottando la forma di 
diario e rinunciando ad ogni invenzione esuberante — cio che li accomuna 
nell'intento didattico é un costante invito rivolto ai lettori di confrontare 1 mondi 
descritti con quello in cui vivono. Ambedue le relazioni sembrerebbero, infatti, 
private da una parte importante del loro messaggio se non venissero riferite 
al contesto italiano. In ambedue i casi si tratta poi di un pubblico elitario, benché 
in gioco entrino criteri diversi: competenze intellettuali per il Lando, statuto 
sociale ed economico per Fantuzzi. Giocando e parodiando oppure ricorrendo 
a dati documentari e verificabili, i due narratori-viaggiatori mostrano al loro 
pubblico le strade da seguire nel migliorare lo spazio domestico in cui essi abitano: 
uno additando cio che si deve eliminare, l’altro cid che si dovrebbe realizzare. 
Raccontando viaggi reali oppure mettendosi nei panni di viaggiatori inventati 
in fondo si ha sempre presente la propria casa: altrimenti le relazioni di viaggio 
avrebbero un senso? 


Uniwersytet Warszawski 
Opere citate 


Eco, Umberto. Lector in fabula. Milano: Bompiani, 1998. 


Fantuzzi, Giacomo. Diario del viaggio europeo (1656), a cura di P. Salwa e W. Tygielsk1, 
PAN, Roma-Varsavia, 1998. 


Lando, Ortensio. Commentario delle pin notabili e mostruose cose che si vedono in Itaka et altri 
luoghi di lingua aramea in italiana tradotto nel qual s'impara et prendesi istremo piacere; vt 
si é poi aggionto in breve catalogo delli inventori delle cose che si mangiano et si bevono, novamente 
ritrovato et da M. Anonymo d’Utopia composto. Venezia, s.n., 1548. 














LORENZA MONDADA 





Relations de voyage et archéologie des 
pratiques d’enquéte en sciences sociales: 
Comment rapporter la voix de l’Autre 


Les voyages étendent l’esprit, ’élevent, ’enrichissent de connoissances, et 
le guérissent des préjugés nationaux. C’est un genre d’étude auquel on ne 
supplée point par les livres, et par le rapport d’autrui; il faut soi-méme ju- 
ger des hommes, des lieux, et des objets. Ainsi le principal but qu’on doit 
se proposer dans les voyages, est sans contredit d’examiner les moeurs, 
les coutumes, le génie des autres nations, leur gout dominant, leurs arts, 
leurs sciences, leurs manufactures et leur commerce. (Encyclopédie, fac- 


similé de la Ie éd., 1751-1780, Stuttgart: Frommann, 1967, 17: 476) 


1. Voyage et construction de connaissances 

L’association entre voyage et connaissance traverse histoire du voyage de- 
puis lantiquité; le déplacement exprime en effet a la fois littéralement et 
métaphoriquement les processus fondamentaux de construction des con- 
naissances 4 travers l’expérience. C’est pourquoi, méme si les voyages ont 
épousé des finalités multiples au cours de leur histoire, méme si les voyages 
de missionnaires, pélerins, administrateurs coloniaux, explorateurs, militai- 
res, espions, scientifiques, peintres, journalistes ou honnétes hommes ont 
pu se focaliser sur des aspects hétéroclites et poursuivre des objectifs fort 
différents, acquisition et la construction de connaissance sur le terrain 
reste un trait caractéristique de ces entreprises (Mondada 1997). 

Le fait que le voyage laisse des traces, consignées et élaborées dans les 
textes abondants que les voyageurs ont rédigés au fil du temps, qui ont été 
diffusés non seulement auprés de leurs proches dans la sphére privée mais 
aussi auprés d’un public de lecteurs, montre que cette expérience de con- 
naissance ne se réalise pas uniquement dans le vécu du voyage mais aussi — 
et peut-étre surtout — dans son élaboration discursive. L’écriture du savoir 
qui caractérise le voyage et sur laquelle nous allons nous focaliser dans cet 
article, nous parvient souvent dans son accomplissement deéfinitif et dans 
son produit fini qu’est la relation de voyage; elle accompagne toutefois le 
voyage dans tout son déroulement, commengant avant le départ, continuant 
dans des carnets de notes durant le déplacement et s’achevant dans la ré- 
daction finale au retour. Dans ce sens, l’expérience du voyage est étroite- 
ment articulée avec l’expérience de l’écriture qui l’accompagne. C’est de cet- 
te derniére que jaillissent des objets de savoir qui sont avant tout des objets 
de discours, élaborés dans et par l’élaboration discursive de l’expérience. 


Annali dTtalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoporics revisited | Ritorno all‘odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


320 LORENZA MONDADA 


Cette dimension discursive ne se limite en outre pas a la production 
écrite, individuelle et solitaire, des notes ou des versions retravaillées; elle 
est omniprésente durant le voyage dans une forme orale, collective, inter- 
active, dans les échanges que le voyageur entretient constamment avec ses 
compagnons de voyage mais aussi avec les natifs. Cette oralité interactive 
qui joue un role fondamental dans les processus d’appréhension, de com- 
prehension, d’interprétation du voyageur laisse elle aussi des traces, parfois 
subtiles, parfois exhibées par le scripteur, dans la relation. 

La centralité du projet de connaissance dans le voyage et dans la rela- 
tion de voyage en fait un lieu d’observation intéressant pour ceux qui cher- 
chent a décrire les procédés organisant la fabrication discursive du savoir 
sur le terrain. Dans ce sens, la relation de voyage peut étre considérée com- 
me un genre précurseur de l’écriture du savoir et de lécriture du terrain en 
sciences humaines et sociales. Elle peut étre considérée comme un ancétre 
d’un certain type de texte anthropologique, géographique, sociologique ou 
linguistique, et notamment du texte qui fonde sur sur une expérience de 
terrain le recueil de données pour l’enquéte. 

Dans cet article, nous allons donc explorer quelques problémes qui se 
posent a une écriture du savoir et qui sont traités de fagon emblématique 
par la relation de voyage; nous insisterons notamment sur l’élaboration 
discursive de connaissances relatives a la spécificité des cultures rencon- 
trées par le voyageur, qui manifestent, par leur opacité, leur différence, leur 
identité spécifique, la distance géographique mais aussi socio-culturelle 
mise par le voyageur entre son point de départ et les lieux qu'il parcourt. 
De facon analogue, le chercheur de terrain en sciences humaines s’éloigne 
de la sphére de son activité académique pour “aller sur le terrain,” pour 
effectuer un déplacement a partir duquel il s’agira de “rapporter” — dans le 
double sens de ramener avec soi des objets et d’en parler — des savoirs, des 
données, des matériaux a soumettre 4 une analyse ultérieure. De tout 
temps, les voyageurs ont rapporté chez eux une variété d’objets: des objets 
précieux faisant partie de trophés et des trésors dérobés, volés, pillés; des 
objets ordinaires temoins du quotidien traditionnel tels que des calebasses, 
des vases décorés, ou des tapis; ou des objets moins encombrants comme 
des mots, des histoires ou des expressions locales, couchés sur le calepin du 
voyageur et transcrits ensuite dans le texte final. Tous ces objets ont enrichi 
des collections, des cabinets de curiosités, des trésors privés et publics, des 
archives - fragments de la culture locale prélevés du terrain, extraits et 
détachés de lui, déplacés dans un autre contexte, ou ils produisent un autre 
sens, deviennent des métonymies de la culture d’origine. 

Aprés avoir développé une lecture historique et une approche discur- 
sive de la relation de voyage comme dispositif pratique et textuel de 
fabrication de connaissances, allons nous pencher sur ces objets immateé- 
riels que sont les mots et les discours ramenés par les voyageurs, nous 
permettant de réfléchir a la fagon dont la relation de voyage organise le 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’ AUTRE 321 


rapport aux voix locales, les enregistre et les documente 4 sa fagon et pose 
ainsi des problémes d’écriture du terrain qui préfigurent les problémes 
rencontrés par les ethnographes pratiquant leur fieldwork. 


2. Pratiques du voyage et pratiques de Penquéte 

La relation de voyage peut étre considérée comme un des lieux historiques 
d’émergence des pratiques de l’enquéte de celles qui deviendront les 
sciences sociales. Sans prétendre 4 en dresser une histoire détaillée, les 
remarques fragmentaires qui suivent se centrent sur trois moments décisifs: 
le premier se focalise sur le grand partage entre les voyageurs et les savants 
de cabinet, entre expérience de terrain et la production intellectuelle; le 
deuxiéme prend en compte la volonté de la part des académies et des pou- 
voirs officiels de contrdler et diriger le recueil des données par des instruc- 
tions et des questionnaires destinés aux voyageurs; le troisiéme se penche 
sur lintégration et ’hybridation progressive des impératifs du terrain et de 
la systématisation du savoir. 


2.1. Le grand partage entre voyageurs et savants de cabinet 

La pratique du voyage comme source de connaissance est trés ancienne — il 
suffit de penser aux voyageurs savants de l’Antiquité, comme Hérodote, 
Pausanias ou Strabon (Jacob). Toutefois cette tradition antique contraste 
avec une pratique caractéristique de la modernité, qui instaure un Grand 
Partage (Latour 1983) entre les voyageurs d’un cote et les savants de l’autre, 
dans une division du travail entre le recueil d’informations par le voyageurs 
et leur traitement, systématisation, interprétation érudite effectués par des 
savants sédentaires. En géographie! par exemple, on trouve d’un coté les 
récits et les documents des voyageurs découvreurs, des voyageurs explora- 
teurs ou des voyageurs naturalistes; de l’autre les géographes de cabinet, 
occupant de hautes fonctions auprés du roi. Meme si Castel, dans une lettre 
a Pabbé Raynal en 1751, déclare que les voyageurs sont «les vrais savants, 
les inventeurs, les créateurs de la science géographique» (cité par Broc, 
375), une méfiance, voire un mépris, envers les premiers est d’usage auprés 
des seconds qui les accusent de superficialité, d’ignorance et d’imprécision, 
quand ce n’est de mensonge. La géographie monarchique se définit comme 
la science qui détermine des positions de lieux et des configurations 
d’espaces par la carte — et donc comme une science positive, qui ne retient 
des voyages et des explorations que les objets d’un savoir factuel, pouvant 
étre fixés sur la carte et dégagés des péripéties de l’enquéte; qui privilégie 
avant tout l’astronomie et les mathématiques et produit une vision essen- 
tiellement abstraite de la terre. C’est a elle que se confronte la vision 
descriptive produite par les voyageurs sur le terrain, dont les dires sont 
souvent incontrdlables tout en restant indispensables pour nourrir les 


1. Voir la trés bonne histoire de la géographie de Livingstone (1993). 


322 LORENZA MONDADA 


cartes. L’activité des géographes de cabinet consiste, pour une grande part, 
en un travail d’édition, de normalisation, de correction et de synthése des 
cartes. Ce travail est constamment confronté a des versions différentes et 
souvent divergentes d’une méme information, provenant de sources 
hétérogénes. C’est un travail qui reléve de la critique philologique et qui 
demande une organisation efficace des données, des questions posées aux 
voyageurs et des missions organisées par l’Académie. C’est dire que la 
géographie, tout en privilégiant la carte, est alors et avant tout une disci- 
pline basée sur des méthodes de traitement des textes,” régie par un conflit 
de rationalités entre deux discours, l'un basé sur un ordre spatial mathéma- 
tique et abstrait et l'autre sur un ordre vécu, qualitatif, phénoménologique 
(Broc 55). Les reproches adressés par le premier au second sont l’absence 
de savoir spécialisé ou général permettant d’ordonner, de sélectionner, de 
hiérarchiser les observations, Vincapacité a synthétiser, le manque de 
vocabulaire spécialisé et de distinctions catégorielles (Broc 261-63). Le 
premier défend son territoire institutionnel en signalant les manques du 
second, relevant des critéres des paradigmes scientifiques en vigueur, 
refusant la coexistence de versions contradictoires et la dimension cons- 
truite du savoir, qui n’est pensé que par rapport a un idéal de vérité. Dans 
ce sens les difficultés d’une discipline descriptive a se développer relévent 
davantage d’un rapport de pouvoir avec un paradigme fort que de l’absence 
d’expérimentations textuelles, non reconnues. 


2.2. Les instructions aux voyageuts ou la tentative de contrdler les 
ptatiques d’observation et d’écriture sur le terrain 

La tentative de réparer le clivage entre les pratiques des voyageurs et les at- 
tentes des savants de cabinet a conduit a l’élaboration d’instructions rédi- 
gées du point de vue des seconds pour controler et diriger les premiers. 
Trés tot se développe ainsi, a coté de la relation de voyage proprement dite, 
une série foisonnante d’autres textes, guides, livres de conseils, questionnai- 
res congus pour accompagner le voyageur au long de son trajet. Si certains 
sont des livres pratiques — destinés par exemple aux croyants dans leurs 
pélerinages — d’autres ont le but explicite d’orienter le regard intellectuel des 
voyageurs. Ces textes peuvent étre considérés comme les ancétres des ques- 
tionnaires contemporains en sciences sociales: ils fournissaient les catégo- 
ries dans les termes desquelles le voyageur allait consigner a l’écriture ses 
observations. Ils étaient la fois un moyen d’éducation du voyageur et un 
outil au service des académies, préparant Phomogénéisation des observa- 
tions en vue de leur intégration dans le corps de données 4 traiter par les 
savants de cabinet. 


2. Broc (36) dit de D’Anville: “Pour le ‘géographe de cabinet’ qu'il est, Pessentiel [...] cest la 


critique des textes.” 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’ AUTRE 323 


Dés le XVIe siécle se développe dans ce domaine l’ars apodemica (Stag)), 
une technique du voyage inspirée des tables synoptiques de Pierre de la 
Ramée. Celui-ci élabore une “méthode naturelle”? qui permet d’embrasser 
n’importe quel domaine du savoir en le découpant progressivement en 
parties de plus en plus détaillées (Ong). Cette démarche se trouva rapide- 
ment matérialisée et visualisée dans des tables synoptiques qui en favori- 
saient l’apprentissage et la mémorisation, ol toute connaissance était 
caractérisée d’abord par ses aspects les plus généraux, puis subdivisée par 
une série de partages dichotomiques en aspects plus particuliers, jusqu’a 
étre réduite 4 ses éléments articulateurs. La méthode s’imposa comme une 
technique utile pour ordonner des savoirs encyclopédiques; elle se prétait 
idéalement a Vorganisation des éléments disparates que le voyageur allait 
rencontrer dans son périple. Les livres de conseils aux voyageurs integrent 
dans la seconde moitié du XVIe siécle des consignes sur la facon d’écrire un 
journal de voyage et surtout sur l’ordre dans lequel organiser ses observa- 
tions: il était ainsi conseillé de rédiger les observations dans un premier 
carnet selon lordre chronologique et de les regrouper dans un second 
carnet selon l’ordre systématique des rubriques du ramisme. C’est ainsi que 
se développe une nouvelle littérature de voyage inspirée de Pierre de la 
Ramée,* intégrant dans la relation de voyage elle-méme la systématisation 
des observations faites sur le terrain. 

La tradition des questionnaires initiée par les ramistes connait un nou- 
vel essor 4 la fin du XVIIe siécle (Stagl), lorsque les apports des voyageurs 
intéressent de facon de plus en plus systématique les institutions d’Etat. 
Parmi les ouvrages de cette époque, celui de Leopold Berchtold, An Essay 
to direct and extend the inquiries of patriotic travellers; with further Observations on the 
Means of preserving the Life, Health and Property of the unexperienced in their Journtes 
by Land and Sea. Also a Series of Questions interesting to Socety and Humanity, 
necessary to be proposed for Solution to Men of all ranks and Employments, and of all 
Nations and Governments, comprising the most serious Points relative to the Objects of 
all Travels (London, 1789, 2 vols.) aura une fortune considérable parmi les 
voyageurs, traduit en allemand en 1791 et en francais en l’'an V (1797). Ce 
guide comporte, outre des réflexions générales sur le voyage ordonnées en 
un certain nombre d’aphorismes organisés en 12 sections, une (longue) 
série de 2443 questions organisées en 37 sections. Y sont contemplés les 
aspects les plus divers rencontrés par le voyageur, de la physique du pays a 
sa démographie, des différents aspects de son économie, agriculture, 


3. Cf. la Dialectique de Pierre de la Ramée, Paris, 1555. 

4. Voir p. ex. Theodor Zwinger, Methodus Apodemica (Basileae, 1577), Hilarius Pyrckmair, 
Commentariolus de Arte Apodenrica seu Vera Peregrinand Ratione (Ingolstadi, 1577), Hugo de Bloote, 
Tabula Peregrinationis continens Capita Politica (Norimbergae, 1629), ce dernier contenant 116 
questions numérotées sur les institutions politiques et religieuses, sur la aspects sociaux, 
démographiques, ethniques, économiques des villes traversées par les voyageurs. 


324 LORENZA MONDADA 


Partisanat et industrie, le commence, a son droit civil et criminel, de la 
police aux institutions charitables et au systeme éducatif, des moeurs et 
coutumes aux problémes d’identité nationale, des effets du climat sur la 
population a l’alimentation et aux conditions de vie des femmes, des 
religions pratiquees a |’organisation sociale. 

Cet énorme questionnaire inspirera non seulement bon nombre de 
voyageurs du XIX¢ siécle, mais aussi des hauts fonctionnaires: ainsi en est-il 
tout particulierement en France de Constantin-Francois Chasseboeuf, dit 
Volney, qui prévoit des questions a ia fin de son Voyage en Egypte et en Syrie 
pendant les années 1783, 1784 et 1785 (Paris, 1785-87, 2 vols.), qu'il a effectué 
en tant qu’agent secret au service de la France. En 1793 il rejoint Domini- 
que Joseph Garat au Ministére de l’Intérieur, ot il organise un Bureau des 
Renseignements, en élaborant des questionnaires a faire passer dans toute 
la France. Aprés la Terreur et un séjour en prison, il part en mission offi- 
cielle en Turquie, et élabore a cette occasion une enquéte universelle, inspi- 
rée de son questionnaire de 1785 qu'il adapte pour les pays étrangers. Ce 
questionnaire, révisé et publié en 17955 s’inspire directement de Berchtold 
que Volney a rencontré en 1790. Il réduit toutefois 4 135 le nombre des 
questions de Berchtold, considérées trop nombreuses. 

Volney continuera a collaborer a l’élaboration de questionnaires, que ce 
soit pour des sociétés savantes (il fait partie avec d’autres idéologues de la 
Société des Observateurs de Homme qui développe les premiers ques- 
tionnaires ethnographiques® et de Académie Celtique, pour laquelle il 
conc¢oit des questionnaires linguistiques) ou pour des missions étatiques (il 
rédige les questionnaires qui seront utilisés dans l’expédition de Napoléon 
en Egypte). Il participe ainsi du développement des premiéres enquétes sur 
large échelle en France (cf. Bourguet; Des Rosiéres). 

Un peu plus tard en Angleterre les documents rédigés par des anthro- 
pologues pour instruire les modes d’observation des voyageurs sur le 
terrain sont recueillis dans les Notes and Queries éditées par la British Association 
jor the Advancement of Science (BAAS) et le Royal Anthropological Institute 
dés 1840, dans le but suivant: “to promote accurate anthropological 
observation on the part of travellers, and to enable those who are not 
anthropologists themselves to supply the information which is wanted for 
the scientific study of anthropology at home” (Notes and Queries, 1874, iv, cité 
par Urry, 1972, 47). Liidée des Notes and Queries est développée d’abord par 
William John Thoms, inspiré par les fréres Grimm et de leurs recherches 
sur le folklore, qui fonde un journal appelé Notes and Queries en 1848: il 
s’agit d’une publication écrite par ses propres souscripteurs, des notables 


5. Questions d’économie publique par le citoyen Volney, Magasin Encyclopédique, 1, an III (1795), 
352-362. 

6. Cf. le questionnaire de Degérando, Considénations sur les méthodes a suivre dans les observations des 
Penples Sauvages, Paris, 1800, qui est le premier manuel de fieldwork en France. 


COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’AUTRE 325 


ruraux qui publient des questions qui les intriguent et sollicitent des 
réponses, accumulant ainsi un nombre impressionant de données ethnogra- 
phiques — une sorte de forum de discussion avant la lettre. La British 
Association for the Advancement of Science reprendra cette idée en 1874 
en publiant les Notes and Queries in Anthropology, for the Use of Travellers and 
Residents in Unavilized Lands (London, 1874 avec de trés nombreuses 
rééditions). 

La rédaction de ces listes repose sur la présupposition d’une indépen- 
dance de la théorie envers le terrain qu’elle contrdle (Kilani 75) et dans ce 
sens contribue au maintien de la division du travail entre collecteurs 
d’informations et experts (Urry 1984, 39). Mais elle permet aussi une prise 
en compte graduelle des préoccupations qui viennent du terrain, lorsque les 
rédacteurs ne sont plus exclusivement des anthropologues de cabinet mais 
acquiérent une pratique ethnographique. Ces Noses deviendront le bréviaire 
des anthropologues sur le terrain, prévoyant les éléments dont prendre note 
et organisant ainsi l’écriture des textes des monographies qui dériveront du 
fieldwork (Urry 1972). 

La démarche du fieldwork britannique comme des ethnologues frangais 
hérite donc des questionnaires 4 lusage des voyageurs. Bien que ces 
instructions soient concues dans un cadre qui réaffirme la séparation entre 
une académie savante contrdlant a la fois les références théoriques de 
lenquéte et les modes de traitement des données qui y sont recueillies, 
Pattention envers les conditions et les pratiques de l’enquéte va croissant. 
Lorsque c’est ’anthropologue lui-méme qui élabore les modeéles théoriques 
et analytiques de son enquéte et va recueillir les données nécessaires sur le 
terrain les deux sphéres se retrouvent réunies en une seule personne. Méme 
si la différenciation des pratiques de l’anthropologue lorsqu’il est chez lui et 
lorsqu’il voyage chez les autres se maintient encore pendant longtemps, une 
hybridation progressive est en cours. En ayant du, pendant des siécles, 
reconcilier sur les lieux mémes du voyage les contraintes du questionnaire 
et Pexpression de son expérience, les visées généralisantes des modéles 


textuels et les particularités du terrain, le voyageur pratique trés tét cette 
hybridation (Mondada 2000a). 


2.3. L’écriture du terrain ou Pavénement du fieldwork en sciences 
humaines 

Ce n’est que vers 1880 et 1890 que les anthropologues anglais vont sur le 
terrain. Si Malinowski est considéré comme l’anthropologue qui a installé 
cette pratique au sein de la discipline, l’histoire de l’anthropologie montre 
que ce sont ses précurseurs et maitres, Haddon (qui introduisit le terme 
méme de “fieldwork” dans l’anthropologie britannique) et Rivers 4 Cam- 
bridge, Seligman a la London School of Economics, qui intégrérent cette 
pratique empirique dans la discipline, en défendant l’idée d’“intensive study 
of limited areas” (Stocking). 


326 LORENZA MONDADA 


Le fieldwork provoque une mise en cause partielle des questionnaires 
et y introduit de nouvelles exigences: Haddon, Rivers, Myers et Seligman, 
tous participants de l’expédition au détroit de Torres en 1898, font partie 
du Comité de la BAAS chargé d’éditer la 4e édition des Notes and Queries 
(1912). Rivers rédige un General Account of Method, manifeste de Ecole de 
Cambridge, qui invite a apprendre la langue des indigénes et a exclure les 
“civilised categories” pour ne retenirt que les descriptions qui “use the very 
instrument which the people themselves use in dealing with their social 
problems” (cité par Stocking 90). A partir de la se développe un mouve- 
ment qui se distancie des questionnaires pour leur préférer lobservation 
participante: Malinowski exprime spatialement ce mouvement lorsqu’il 
invite 4 quitter la véranda de la maison de l’ethnologue dans le quartier 
colonial pour planter la tente au centre du village (tout en ne franchissant 
pas le pas entre sa propre tente et la demeure locale); mais Marrett dans les 
Notes and Queries de 1912 le précéde en disant qu’il faut éviter les question- 
naires préparés 4 l’avance et que «the real scheme of topics [...] must be 
framed by the observer himself to suit the social conditions of a given 
tribe» (cité par Stocking 91). 

L’exigence qui apparait dans ce cadre opére un bouleversement de taille 
dans la conception du recueil de données: il ne s’agit plus tellement de re- 
cueillir des informations obéissant a des schémas préétablis, régis par des 
catégories exogénes propres aux modeles définis par l’'académie qui traitera 
ainsi ces données avec d’autres, en effacant la spécificité des lieux ot elles 
ont été recueillies. I] s’agit davantage de comprendre quelles sont les caté- 
gories endogénes qui régissent localement lintelligibilité des expériences, 
des rituels, de la quotidienneté, des relations sociales pour les natifs et qui 
sont donc susceptibles d’étre utilisées a son tour par l’enquéteur. Dés lors 
celui-ci organise les données qu’il recueille en fonction de schémas intepré- 
tatifs particuliers qui ne sont pas les siens, au lieu de reposer sur des sché- 
mas homogénéisants standardisant toute culture a l’aune des memes ques- 
tions. D’une certaine facon, l’anthopologue adopte alors une posture qui le 
tapproche du voyageur rédigeant sa relation sans l’aide de questionnaires 
ou d’instructions, en se basant uniquement sur la spécificité de son expé- 
rience vécue, saisie a travers des catégories qui sont celles du sens commun 
de sa culture de départ, dont il voit bien qu’elles ne fonctionnent que trés 
partiellement une fois transposées dans le contexte d’une culture autre. Le 
voyageur comme l’anthropologue, bien que dotés de formations intellec- 
tuelles différentes, expérimentent ainsi le conflit de schémas interprétatifs 
différents et la nécessité de s’approprier les catégories locales pour conférer 
de lintelligibilité a leurs expériences. 

Ces nouvelles exigences ont des effets sur les pratiques d’écriture, en 
posant des problémes spécifiques d’organisation du texte: les voyageurs- 
scripteurs comme les anthropologues de terrain sont confrontés a une 
interrogation des techniques et des méthodes efficaces pour mener a bien 








COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’ AUTRE 327 


leur entreprise descriptive face a des objets culturels spécifiques mais 
devant étre “déplacés” dans une autre culture, “comparés” 4 d’autres objets 
singuliers. Les deux doivent imaginer et exploiter des ressources garantis- 
sant une adéquation descriptive, une cohérence, un ordre, une factualité des 
objets décrits. Au lieu de circonscrire le voyageur dans la logique de la 
division du travail entre recueil des données et traitement, élaboration, clas- 
sement de ses données, on peut considérer son apport comme posant déja 
certains problémes d’élaboration textuelle — confrontée a la critique des 
catégories exogénes et 4 la difficulté de les remplacer par des catégories en- 
dogénes. Le voyageur anticipe en cela sur les problémes qui se poseront 
plus tard 4 l’ethnologue’ et que celui-ci n’a toujours pas résolu de fagon 
définitive, malgré linstauration du dogme du terrain dans sa discipline.* 
Méme si les expériences menées par les anthropologues dits post-modernes 
(Clifford & Marcus 1986) ont, du moins dans une partie de la discipline, 
radicalement rénové leurs modes d’écriture pour tenter d’expérimenter de 
nouvelles maniéres de faire parler le terrain (Marcus & Fischer). 


3. La relation de voyage comme dispositif textuel de fabrication du 
savoir 

Au fil de Phistoire et au fil des maniéres dont elle a été exploitée, concue et 
pratiquée, la relation de voyage émerge comme un dispositif complexe 
d’élaboration et de capitalisation des connaissances. Si le regard historique 
permet de le situer dans le développement des différentes disciplines des 
sciences humaines et sociales, un regard issu de la sociologie des sciences et 
des sciences du langage permet d’en préciser le fonctionnement en tant que 
trace matérialisée de pratiques de connaissance. Ce regard a la spécificité de 
souligner la dimension constitutive des pratiques empiriques, et notamment 
des pratiques discursives, dans la fabrication des connaissances (Lynch, 
Knorr-Cetina, Latour 1989; Mondada 1995, 2000b). Le savoir n’est pas issu 


7. Méme si cet apport n’est reconnu que depuis peu, la discipline ayant souvent été plus pré- 
occupée de défendre la spécificité de ses textes et de ses pratiques que de reconnaitre ses pré- 
curseurs dans les pratiques scientifiquement hybrides et institutionnellement peu prestigieuses des 
voyageurs. A ce propos Pratt parle d’un “well-established habit among ethnographers of defining 
ethnographic writing over and against older, less specialized genres, such as travel books, personal 
memoirs, journalism, and accounts by missionaries, settlers, colonial officials, and the like. [-..] This 
strategy of defining itself by contrast to adjacent and antecedent discourses limits ethnography’s 
ability to explain or examine itself as a kind of writing. To the extent that it legitimates itself by 
opposition to other kinds of writing, ethnography blinds itself to the fact that its own discursive 
practices were often inherited from these other genres and are still shared with them today.” (27). 
8. Ainsi que Rabinow le souligne bien: “as graduate students we are told that ‘anthropology equals 
experience; you are not an anthropologist until you have the experience of doing it. But when one 
returns from the field, the oppositve immediately applies: anthropology is not the experiences 
which made you an initiate, but only the objective data you have brought back.” (4). 


328 LORENZA MONDADA 


d’un simple regard en mesure de dévoiler les secrets de la nature, mais il est 
construit a travers le travail ordinaire du chercheur et notamment 4 travers 
la facon dont celui-ci élabore discursivement la version des faits qui 
transitera progressivement dans différents lieux, du laboratoire aux espaces 
de discussion de la communauté scientifique, a la sphére publique de la 
littérature. Le savoir ne préexiste pas a sa verbalisation, mais se structure en 
tant que tel dans et par le discours qui le formule. C’est ce qui nous invite a 
prendre en considération la relation de voyage comme un lieu ou s’élabore 
discursivement la connaissance de l’Autre. 


3.1. Un réseau intertextuel complexe 
La relation de voyage peut étre vue comme un réseau intertextuel com- 
plexe, un lieu ow se croisent, se sédimentent, s’affrontent plusieurs types de 
discours. La relation de voyage est un genre textuel hybride, qui traverse 
plusieurs genres et les combine: du journal autobiographique a la descrip- 
tion savante, de la réflexion philosophique au recueil d’anecdotes, du 
fragment de traité historique au récit d’aventures (Roudaut) Ces éléments 
@hétérogénéité permettent de s’interroger sur le fonctionnement textuel de 
la relation de voyage, et notamment sur la fagon dont elle assure la cohé- 
sion de ses parties: s’apparentant tant6t au collage, tantot a la liste, tantot au 
recueil de fragments, elle est constamment menacée d’éclatement et de 
désordre: si d’une part absence d’un ordre habituel peut étre revendiqué 
comme caractéristique du texte et gage de la sincérité de son auteur, d’autre 
part la relation de voyage fait recours 2 des moyens de maintien de la 
cohésion et de la cohérence qui lui sont spécifiques, régis notamment par la 
contrainte structurelle fondamentale qu’est celle du parcours de l’itinéraire. 
Cette hétérogénéité semble pourtant devenir une ressource, un disposi- 
uf permettant d’organiser un ordre spécifique pour les observations faites 
sur le terrain. C’est ce qu’affirme explicitement Alexander von Humboldt, 
lorsqu’il réfléchit aux formes que peut prendre la littérature scientifique 
dans sa préface a la Relation historique du voyage aux régions équinoxiales du 
Nouveau Continent (Paris, 1814-1825, 1 :29sv.): face a la monographie 
savante, régie par les conventions rhétoriques de Académie et organisée 
selon des catégories scientifiques tranchée et fixée a priori, la relation de 
voyage est structurée de maniére plus flexible, en suivant les aléas du trajet 
du voyageur. Dans ce sens, elle permet d’introduire de nombreuses re- 
marques qui n’auraient pas trouvé leur place dans la monographie. Bien 
que constamment menacée par le désordre et l’éclatement, la relation est 
productrice d’un autre ordre, en liant les événements et les observations au 
fil du parcours, qui impose sa linéarité au texte. Le parcours impose du 
méme coup une focalisation particuliére sur énonciateur et sur son lien 
avec les objets percus (notamment par la vue). Ainsi des digressions 
peuvent étre intégrées si elles sont motivées par un rapport établi avec le 
sujet, selon une rhétorique permettant de présenter les arguments scientifi- 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’ AUTRE 329 


ques comme issus d’une observation directe des faits. De cette maniére, la 
relation de voyage ne propose pas seulement une rhétorique, mais aussi une 
épistemologie particuliére, empreinte d’un réalisme qui joue avec loeil 
comme un instrument enregistreur. 

La relation de voyage n’est pas seulement un texte dont la structure 
interne est hétéroclite; elle s’ouvre vers une multiplicité d’autres textes avec 
lesquels elle dialogue. L’intertextualité s’établit d’abord avec les textes du 
voyageur lui-méme, ses notes prises sur le vif ou dans la journée, éventuel- 
lement retravaillées; ou le double du journal que les instructions de Ber- 
chtold recommandent de tenir au cas ot une copie serait perdue ou volée 
ou encore confisquée par la police. La relation de voyage est l’aboutis- 
sement d’autres textes écrits a différents moments, pendant ou aprés le 
voyage. L’intertextualité est en outre déclenchée dans le rapport, souvent 
tendu, avec les textes des autres voyageurs, que le voyageur prend avec soi 
et lit durant son parcours ou bien qu’il a lus en préparant le voyage; les 
classiques auxquels il est obligé de faire référence, les autres textes possi- 
bles qu’il se sent obligé de critiquer d’avance. Les autres voyageurs sont 4 la 
fois des allliés et des concurrents, et les textes sont a la fois semblables et 
également a la rechereche de leur spécificité. 

Le texte emprunte également 4 la littérature existante, les encyclopédies, 
les monographies, les traités sur histoire, la nature, les moeurs que le voya- 
geur consulte dans sa bibliothéque avant et apres le voyage; il emprunte 
aussi aux textes pratiques, qu’il prend avec soi, guides ou instructions, qui 
lui peuvent lui fournir autant des contenus que des schémas ordonnateurs. 
Ces sources textuelles se combinent avec d’autres, iconiques: tableaux, gra- 
vures, cartes, illustrations de toutes sortes qui préparaient les voyageurs aux 
images qu’ils allaient voir et par ailleurs étaient reproduites d’un texte 4 
autre. Tous ces documents font de la relation de voyage 4 la fois un lieu 
d’intertextualité complexe et un noeud dans un réseau ov circulent des 
connaissances qui sont recopicées, reproduites, citées, transformées, au fur 
et a mesure de leur reprise et reformulation; chaque texte empruntant a 
ceux qui l’ont précédé et étant lui-méme incorporé dans les textes suivants. 

Mais le texte ne fait pas uniquement que dialoguer avec d’autres textes: 
il cite, exploite et incorpore d’autres discours, ceux qui sont recueillis, écou- 
tés, aussi bien que méprisés par le voyageur durant son trajet. Il ne s’agit 
plus la de textes écrits mais plutdt de discours entendus, de voix orales, d’é- 
changes verbaux que le voyageur entretient avec les personnes qu’il ren- 
contre dans son périple. Ce sont des voix locales, de natifs, d’informateurs, 
relevant de positions diverses, allant du notable au domestique, en passant 
par le mendiant ou Voisif croisé dans l’espace public. Elles nourissent le 
discours du voyageur méme si celui-ci reconnait sa dette envers eux de 
maniére plus ou moins appuyée, en les citant de maniére plus ou moins 
explicite, en les identifiant plus ou moins précisément — souvent en les 
passant sous silence. Ces voix locales n’ont souvent pas de contours précis, 


330 LORENZA MONDADA 


en devenant plutdt des rumeurs, des “on dit,” des versions anonymes qui 
peuvent étre tout aussi bien catégorisées par le voyageur comme des faits 
bruts ou comme des versions improbables. 


3.2. La relation de voyage comme lieu de l’élaboration discursive de 
Paltérité 

Le voyageur se trouve, du fait de son déplacement, dans une position 
d’ethnographe, confronté a un espace culturel autre, peuplé et traversé par 
une langue, des habitudes, des paysages, des objets qui différent de ceux de 
sa vie ordinaire. Son appréhension de cet espace nouveau, inconnu, 
étranger sinon étrange, consiste 4 le formuler comme un objet de savoir 
dont il faut rendre compte en reconnaissant a la fois la différence qui le 
rend opaque et la mise en ordre qui le rend intelligible. Cette situation est 
donc comparable a celles ou il y a recherche et découverte d’objets de sa- 
voir nouveaux. Elle implique une problématisation des modalités de la mise 
en discours? de ce savoir. En effet, confronté a des objets inédits et non- 
familiers, ’é€nonciateur questionne non seulement les modalités socio-co- 
gnitives qu’il met a oeuvre pour les saisir, mais aussi les jeux de langage 
qui interviennent dans cette appréhension. Au coeur de l’écriture de la rela- 
tion de voyage se pose la question, jamais résolue, de l’adéquation entre les 
formes linguistiques disponibles et la saisie du monde en cours. Dans ce 
sens, la relation de voyage peut étre considérée comme le lieu ot: observer 
un “savoir en action,” ot analyser comment est vécu, pensé et résolu prati- 
quement le probleme de la formulation discursive d’objets de savoir inédits. 
Cette écriture se présente chez la plupart des énonciateurs comme proble- 
matique — dramatisée par le fait que le locuteur doit de lintérieur de sa 
langue faire face a une réalité autre, nouvelle, régie par une autre langue, et 
ou il expérimente l’inadéquation apparente de son systéme linguistique; il 
est concu et actualisé selon des “méthodes”! différentes qu’il s’agit d’ana- 
lyser. 

Nous insisterons dans la derniére partie de cet article sur un probléme 
central pour l’écriture du terrain: sur la fagon dont la relation de voyage, de 
facon analogue au texte ethnographique, parvient a rapporter des fragments 
de la culture des natifs, des bribes de ce que le texte lui-méme signale 
comme étant des dimensions spécifiques, résistantes et éventuellement 
irréductibles de la culture autre. Nous nous intéressons donc 4 des objets 
qui sont apparemment facilement transportables, des mots de la langue de 
Pautre — moins encombrants que des calebasses, des trésors, des tapis ou 
des tableaux, mais qui sont parfois plus difficilement identifiables et 
extrayables de leur terroir. 


9. Le terme de “mise en discours” ne signifie pas que le savoir lui est préalable, mais que le point 
de vue adopté privilégie les processus de saisie discursive et de formulation d’un objet de savoir. 
10. Au sens ethnométhodologique (Garfinkel). 


a _  —_____________ __ 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’AUTRE aot 


Ces mots — souvent limités 4 des lexémes isolés, parfois élargis a des 
fragments de discours cités — sont traités a la fois comme opaques, par leur 
forme “étrangére” qui ne se laisse pas immédiatement comprendre, et 
comme transposables, par des procédés qui les rendent plus compréhensi- 
bles, comme la traduction, la glose, la reformulation. Ainsi est organisée 
dans le texte 4 la fois l’altérité et sa réduction a un sens familier; ainsi est 
accomplie 4 la fois la monstration de l’Autre, dans sa différence, et son rap- 
prochement, voire sa réduction au Méme. 

Ces mots de la culture de I’Autre sont souvent recueillis comme des 
objets trouvés sur le chemin du voyageur, exhibés comme des faits obser- 
vés; en fait ils sont les traces d’un échange que le voyageur a eu avec les 
indigénes, ils sont les bribes restantes, souvent objectivées, autonomisées, 
des interactions du voyageur avec les natifs. 

A travers eux se pose la question de la représentation de laltérité, un 
probléme qui affecte les voyageurs comme ensuite les ethnographes: 
comment figurer l’autre dans sa différence, alors méme que cette différence 
est opaque, incompréhensible, insaisissable pour l’étranger? comment 4 la 
fois maintenir l’autre dans cette différence et le rendre saisissable sinon fa- 
milier?!1 Le choix des moyens descriptifs de la relation de voyage comme 
du texte ethnographique!? est soumis a ce dilemme: le dernier, encore 
davantage que le premier, tente de comprendre !’Autre dans sa propre per- 
spective, dans sa culture, dans les catégories qui lui permettent d’organiser 
sa vision et sa saisie du monde; il le fait néanmoins en écrivant dans la 
langue de l’observateur et non de l’observé, qui impose des catégories ap- 
partenant au vocabulaire commun, sinon au vocabulaire savant, de la 
culture de départ. La description se présente souvent comme une activité 
discursive allant de soi, échappant 4 la théorisation et se limitant a “enregis- 
trer des faits bruts”: la situation de déplacement du voyageur a le mérite de 
montrer que toute description implique des choix interprétatifs, projette des 
éclairages particuliers, construit 4 sa guise les scénes qu’elle prétend rap- 
porter fidélement. La description de Autre nous montre qu’il n’existe pas 
d’écriture purement référentielle, mais que toute référence est une action 
sociale qui construit discursivement son objet par les choix des ressources 
langagiéres auxquels elle procéde. C’est ce qui fait préférer a Geertz (1973) 
une description “épaisse” (thick description) 4 une description “exigiie” prise 
au piége de son ambition informationnelle. 

Le voyageur comme I|’ethnographe se trouvent ainsi confrontés a un 


11. Cf. les réflexions sur les problémes de voicing dans les cultural studies (Spivak) mais aussi en 
anthropologie (Alcoff; Manoukian). 

12. Ces questions ont été posées en ethnographie et anthropologie par un double question- 
nement, d’une part un retour critique des méthodes d’entretien utilisées sur le terrain (Clif- 
ford; Briggs); d’autre part par le développement d’une “ethnographie interactionnelle” qui 
reconnaisse importance du dialogue avec les natifs (Tedlock). 


332 LORENZA MONDADA 


probleme de représentation dans le double sens de ce terme: représentation 
dans le sens sémiotique, ou le texte élabore, donc impose, une image de 
PAutre qui est fabriquée dans la langue et les catégories appartenant a l’in- 
telligibilité, aux normes, aux cadres interprétatifs de l’énonciateur; ot ce qui 
est en jeu n’est pas tellement le référent extérieur du discours ainsi construit 
ou la correspondance entre le référent et sa description, mais est plutot le 
processus de constitution d’une version des faits, dans sa cohérence, dans 
son efficacité, dans sa vraisemblance; représentation au sens politique du 
terme, ol ce qui compte est moins le contenu auquel est réduit Autre que 
la place qui lui est reconnue et assignée, ainsi que la mesure dans laquelle il 
peut intervenir dans le texte, dans laquelle le texte en en fait un étre parlé 
ou un étre parlant. 

Les ressources discursives utilisées dans les relations de voyage comme 
dans les textes des ethnographes tentent de répondre a ces problémes de 
représentation de différentes maniéres, en adoptant des procédés de for- 
mulation et d’organisation du texte qui reconnaissent plus ou moins cette 
altérité, qui la domestiquent d’emblée ou essaient de lui donner une ex- 
pression respectueuse de sa spécificité. 


4. Un exemple: Porganisation des traces d’altérité dans des textes de 
voyageurs et d’ethnographes au Maroc 

Dans l’analyse qui suit, nous allons nous pencher sur les traces manifestant 
la présence de la langue et de la voix de l’Autre dans le texte du voyageur 
ou de l’ethnographe, en nous interrogeant sur la manieére il les identifie, les 
traite, les catégorise, les rend intelligibles. 

Nous le ferons en nous penchant sur un petit corpus de textes de 
voyageurs et d’ethnographes ayant arpenté le Maroc entre la fin du XIX¢ 
siecle et le début du XX¢ siécle. Ce corpus,'3 choisi pour des raisons 
davantage méthodologiques que historiques, présente l’avantage de se si- 
tuer a un moment ou s’opére une transition et une hybridation entre la rela- 
tion de voyage, la relation savante et le texte ethnographique; de faire réfé- 
rence a un espace culturel, le Maroc, qui a suscité un engouement énorme, 
a la fois du point de vue de la littérature de voyage, comme le témoignent la 
mode de l’Orientalisme et le foisonnement de voyages en Orient, et de la 
littérature anthropologique;'* de porter sur une culture qui, au-dela des 


13. Nous avons procédé a des analyses similaires, quoique focalisées davantage sur les eux que 
sur la culture des contrées visitées, a propos du voyage en Italie entre le XVIII¢ et le XLX€ siécle 
dans Mondada (1994). 

14. Non seulement de nombreux anthropologues de renom ont fait leur premier terrain au 
Maroc, mais en particulier un certain nombre d’anthropologues qui animeront les débats sur le 
renouveau de l’écriture en anthropologie: on pense surtout 4 Rabinow qui écrivit un des premiers 


textes réflexifs sur le terrain (1977), mais aussi 4 Crapanzano et Dwyer auteurs d’ethnographies 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’ AUTRE 333 


modes, demeure autre, profondément différente dans ses moeurs et dans sa 
langue de l'univers des voyageurs européens. Le voyage au Maroc — mais 
d’autres destinations auraient pu lui étre préférées — est donc un laboratoire 
intéressant ot se pencher pour une analyse des procédés discursifs par 
lesquels les voyageurs-scripteurs résolvent le probléme de la description de 
réalités qui échappent ou résistent aux mots de leur langue. 


4.1. La distribution et le marquage des zones d’altérité dans le texte 
Le texte du voyageur au Maroc frappe, dés la premiére lecture, par 
accumulation des termes étrangers. Nous en proposons immédiatement 
deux extraits, qui nous permettront d’identifier les phénoménes a observer: 


1: Segonzac, début du ch.1, p. 79 

Le cortége chérifien arrive en trois groupes: en téte le chérif, monté sur un bel 
étalon oranais gris blanc, flanqué de deux rifains qui portent ses fusils et ne le 
quittent jamais. Derriére lui, sur des mules harnachées de sriyjas (1) rouges, 
marchent deux jeunes chérifs, ses beaux-fréres; un fera office d’imam (2), l’autre 
de fgih (3). Derriére encore, monté sur le mulet qui porte les provisions, un gros 
chérif, parent pauvre, type accompli de parasite jovial et vorace, suit en chanton- 
nant. 

Une centaine de metres plus loin vient la mahaffa (4) et son escorte. La 
lourde caisse disgracieuse est portée par deux mulles, c’est une boite rectangulaire, 
peinte en vert Nil avec filets rouges et rechampis jaunes, coiffée d’une toile grise. 
(1) Selle de mulet. (2) Chapelain. (3) Lettré, secrétaire. (4) Litiére. 


2: Segonzac, p. 81 

Notte camp est planté en rond. La qoubba (1) sous laquelle le chénf regoit les 
fidéeles tient le haut bout; a sa gauche la rhezana (2) ou habite le chérif; a sa droite 
la gitoum (3) du moul es-¢inia, le serviteur chargé d’appréter le thé inséparable de 
toute réception. Les autres tentes s’espacent sur le cercle: tente des hotes, offerte 
aux gens de marque qui veulent se joindre au cortége; tente des palfreniers ou ’on 
abrite aussi les selles de velours émeraude brodées d’or; tentes de muletiers; tente 
des maitres ouvriers: bourrelier, maréchal ferrant, tailleur, savetier, boucher; tente 
du moqaddem sous laquelle on garde les provisions de route et ou couche aussi le 
moul er-raouia (4) chargé d’approvisionner le camp en eau; ma tente, que Ben 
Haminmer défend tant bien que mal contre les indiscrétes intrusions des curieux; 
enfin la tente cuisine, jour et nuit rougeaoyant et enfumée ou la douce Meriem (5), 
notre cuisiniére noire, chantonne en attisant des flambées de sarments. En tout 
onze tentes au milieu desquelles sont entravés par files successives les chevaux, 


qui essaient d’épouser un style davantage “dialogique” (pour une critique de Crapanzano voir 


cependant Maffi) — a lopposé Gellner, pourfendeur du dialogisme et du relativisme en 
anthropologie a aussi écrit son fieldwork au Maroc. 


334 LORENZA MONDADA 


qidars (6) ou chevaux de selle, les mules de serija, de mahaffa ou de bat. Au total 
une quarantaine d’animaux. 

(1) Grande tente cyclindro-conique. (2) Tente bonnet de police. (3) Tente conique. (4) La 
raouia est une paire de grandes outres faites d’une peau de boeuf chacune. (5) Marie. (6) 
Cheval de bat. 


Ces deux passages donnent un premier apercu des ressources linguistiques 
mobilisées pour incorporer dans le texte des mots venus d’ailleurs, et des 
effets qu’elles produisent. 

De maniére générale, ces deux fragments montrent la récurrence de termes 
reconnaissables comme n’appartenant pas a la langue de l’énonciateur, si- 
gnalés en tant que tels par des procédés tels que litalique, les notes, les tra- 
ductions. Cette présence massive produit une opacité du texte et fournit en 
méme temps des mises en équivalence qui la dissipent au moins partiel- 
lement. Opacité et transparence sont ainsi produites ensemble, l'une n’allant 
pas sans l’autre. De facon générale, les effets produits par ces marques dis- 
séminées dans tout le texte peuvent étre caractérisés en termes de réalisme 
de la description, lui conférant un ton presque technique et précis dans la 
dénomination rigoureuse des objets; d’exotisme aussi, rendant, en un 
premier temps du moins, les objets décrits différents, voire étranges et 
étrangers par rapport a des objets familiers; de légitimité enfin, multipliant 
les traces du lien entre le texte et la culture traversée, c’est-a-dire entre lieu 
de l’énonciation et lieux énonces. 

Mais au-dela de ces effets généraux, on peut se pencher sur les formes 
qui les réalisent et sur les choix qu’ils impliquent. I] y a d’abord un choix de 
marquage: certains termes sont extraits de la continuité du discours en 
francais pour étre soulignés, marqués de différentes maniéres: par des 
moyens typographiques (litalique), par la présence d'une note suivant le 
terme; par des moyens linguistiques, comme la présence d’une reformula- 
tion ou d’une définition suivant immédiatement le terme. La diversité des 
choix de marquage différencie les termes entre eux: ainsi, par exemple, dans 
extrait 1 on trouve davantage d’italiques que dans l’extrait 2, méme si cela 
n’est pas systématique — “fqih” n’étant par exemple pas marqué comme 
tel, contrairement a “imam,” tout en faisant ’objet d’une note. Dans l’ex- 
trait 2 certains termes comme “qoubba,” “rhezana” ou “gitoum” sont su1i- 
vis d’un appel de note, mais pas “moul es-cintia,” qui est suivi d’une ap- 
position dans le texte lui-méme. Cette différenciation, ainsi que les choix et 
les conséquences qu’elle implique, sont organisés séquentiellement: les trois 
premiers termes expliqués en note composent une liste d’éléments apparte- 
nant a la méme classe, celle des tentes; le fait que les noms des tentes sui- 
vantes ne soient au contraire pas donnés dans la langue locale permet de 
distinguer espace du “chérif” (terme qui est traité, lui, comme appartenant 
a la langue francaise et comme ne posant aucun probleme de compréhen- 
sion) et celui des autres. La distribution des procédés marquant certains 


COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’ AUTRE 335 


termes comme “étrangers” montre donc que cette “€trangéité” n’est pas 
une caractéristique des mots de la langue en eux-mémes, mais un effet pro- 
duit par la facon dont le scripteur organise sa description. La dissémination 
des termes locaux dans la description n’exhibe pas uniquement les zones 
d’opacité et les zones de transparence pour le voyageur; elle manifeste aussi 
les traces d’une certaine appropriation de la langue de l’autre. Ainsi aprés 
que “moul es-cinia” ait été mentionné et traduit dans l’extrait 2, un autre 
terme apparait plus loin, “moul er-raouia” suivi d’une note (4): celle-ci se 
distingue des autres par son format définitionnel, reprenant le terme a dé- 
finir, qui est “raouia” et non pas “moul er-raouia,” traitant ainsi ce dernier 
comme un terme complexe qu'il est possible (pour le voyageur, pour le 
| lecteur, pour le francophone) d’analyser en unités plus petites, certaines 
_ demandant une traduction alors que d’autres (“moul” et “er”) sont traités 
comme allant de soi. Cette dimension analytique présuppose une certaine 
compétence linguistique en train de se faire, dans le fil du texte; de maniére 
plus générale, des effets d’apprentissage sont observables, puisque certains 
termes qui ont été précédemment traduits ne le sont plus par la suite 
(comme “mogaddem” dans l’extrait 2, ou comme “serija” ou “mahaffa” 
présents dans l’extrait 2 et expliqués dans l’extrait 1), étant ainsi considérés 
comme acquis. 


_ 4.2. Les modes de développement des termes introduits comme 
étrangers 
Une fois introduit et pratiquement catégorisé comme appartenant ou non a 
la langue du scripteur, un terme peut étre réutilisé: il signale ainsi 
Penrichissement progressif du vocabulaire du scripteur et de son lecteur. 


4.2.1. Procédés de généralisation 

L’usage récurrent de certains termes ne produit pas seulement une familiari- 
té a Pégard de leur signification, mais construit progressivement un savoir 
lié a ces termes et aux réalités culturelles qu’ils dénotent. Le texte ne fait 
pas que cumuler des entrées de dictionnaire, il vise 4 produire un savoir 
ethnographique dont la validité dépasse l’occurrence particuliére d’un mot, 
la dénomination singuliére d’une entité ou d’un événement, pour tenter 
d’atteindre une certaine généralité. Un premier type de procédé de générali- 
sation, permettant de passer d’une occurrence particuliére a un savoir 
général, consiste 4 exploiter une description locale comme point de départ 
pour une généralisation: 


3: Lenz, p. 67 

Le chemin conduisait du campement par des pentes escarpées au foundaq, qui 
s’élevait sur le penchant d’une montagne, dans un endroit visible de loin. C’est une 
grande cour entourée de quatre murs, avec des écuries pour les animaux et de 
petits taudis malpropres pour les voyageurs. Je ne puis assez prévenir ces derniers 


336 LORENZA MONDADA 
contre les foundaqs marocains, en raison de la vermine qui y fourmille. 


4: Segonzac, pp. 84-85 

Un coup de clairon réveille le camp au lever du jour. On abat les tentes, on mange 
la harira, la bouillie d’orge ou nagent les pois chiches, on selle et on bate les 
animaux, puis on attend que les fidéles aient apporté leur ziara, leur offrande, au 
chérif, et on se met en route. 

Cette ziara est un don collectif ou individuel en nature ou en argent. Le plus 
ordinairement loffrande est collective, les notables s’assemblent et débattent les 
conditions du présent. Le chiffre une fois décidé, on fait deux parts, une partie de 
la somme payera la mouna, l’autre sera l’offrande proprement dite. [...]_ Deux 
heures de marche au fond de petites vallées qui serpentent entre des colllines 
rondes, incultes et fleuries, et nous atteignons la large dépression ot coule ’Oued 
Ouerera. 


Dans le premier extrait, le passage se fait entre un “found4q” particulier ot 
se rend le voyageur et “les foundaqs marocains,” une classe qui comprend 
tous les édifices de ce genre. Ce passage est ultérieurement marqué par un 
changement de temps verbal, du passé au présent, et par un changement de 
personne, de la troisiéme a la premiére (“je ne puis assez prévenir ces 
derniers”) ot les voyageurs en question sont introduits d’abord en relation 
avec les fréquentateurs de ce foundag particulier et repris ensuite anaphori- 
quement (“ces derniers”) en relation a un autre groupe, celui des voyageurs 
lecteurs du texte. Le passage d’un espace énonciatif 4 un autre est donc 
clairement marqué, tout en transitant par un espace ambivalent, celui de la 
description au présent du batiment, qui est a la fois présenté comme dé- 
veloppant la description du foundaq atteint par la caravane et comme une 
description générale de tous les foundaqs de ce type. Dans le deuxiéme 
extrait, la mention d’une “ziara” particuliére, terme expliqué en apposition, 
attendue par les voyageurs, est un prétexte pour développer une longue 
digression sur cette offrande et sur les modalités par lesquelles elle est réu- 
nie, gérée, distribuée par les natifs. Le récit, au passé, est suspendu momen- 
tanément pour que ce développement puisse se faire. Une page d’ethno- 
graphie se trouve ainsi glissée dans la narration, qui devient un prétexte 
pour l’introduire et passe ainsi momentanément au second plan. 

Alors que dans les cas examinés ici la frontiére entre les deux espaces 
descriptifs est marqué de maniére nette, la description ethnographique 
ptenant souvent l’aspect d’une longue digression, un autre procédé consiste 
a imbriquer considérations particuliéres et générales: 


5: Lenz, p. 210 

A une demi-lieue au nord de notre bivouac se trouve une zaouia, lieu sacré, 
comme il y en a une infinité au Maroc: c’est le tombeau de Sidi Mouhamed ben 
Hamid. Ces monuments sont toujours bien tenus extérieurement, et cette petite 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’AUTRE 331) 


construction, surmontée d’une coupole, était enduite d’une couche d’un blanc 
étinceland, de sorte qu’on la voyait de fort loin. 


La description alterne ici entre un objet particulier du tombeau de Sidi 
Mouhamed et un objet doté de valeur générale, la “zaouia.” L’objet est 
introduit en étant localisé par rapport au bivouac du voyageur (“se trouve 
une zaouia”) mais par le biais de sa définition en apposition (“lieu sacré”) il 
est immédiatement associé 4 d’autres occurrences similaires (“comme il y 
en a une infinité au Maroc”). En nommant le saint qui est enterré dans ce 
lieu, le texte revient 4 sa particularité. En revanche, les deux anaphores 
démonstratives qui enchainent a partir de la sont Pune généralisante (“ces 
monuments sont toujours bien tenus extérieurement”) avec reprise au 
pluriel, autre particularisante (“et cette petite construction”) avec reprise 
au singulier et avec un qualificatif. Le texte alterne ainsi constamment entre 
particularisation et généralisation, objet particulier étant traité 4 la fois 
dans sa singularité — qui valorise et ancre l’expérience particuliére du 
voyageur — et en tant que représentant d’une classe d’objets analogues — qui 
permet de relier lexpérience singuliére a un savoir qui la dépasse. 


4.2.2. Procédés de systématisation 

Le texte ethnographique est intéressant a analyser dans cette perspective: 
comme la relation de voyage, il s’appuie sur de nombreux termes locaux; 
toutefois, la fagon de les présenter, ainsi que les effets de généralisation, 
manifestent des objectifs de connaissance plus systématiques et plus ou- 
verts que ceux de la relation de voyage. Ces effets de systématisation 
montrent combien le texte ethnographique peut s’affranchir de la logique 
de l’itinéraire, qui est ici trés secondaire, pour adopter une logique taxino- 
mique, alors que les impératifs régissant la relation de voyage sont inverses. 


6: Westermarck, p. 60 

Outside Sefru, south of Fez, I saw a cairn called Lalla Nfisa — the latter word, 
which means a “lying-in woman,” being an epithet given to shereefas — and 
another, much larger cairn, in the centre of a pit called |-hafra dyal malai Dris. 
Mulai Idris the Elder camped here once, and in order to get the benefit of his 
baraka, people have carried away from the place so much earth that is has 
gradually become a pit. It is here that the qadi, or judge, of Sefru performs his 
sacrifice at the Great Feast. 


Ce texte ethnographique invoque, comme les relations de voyage, des 
termes locaux; comme elles il traite certains termes en les signalant comme 
étant potentiellement opaques — soit par l’italique, soit en les accompagnant 
de commentaires métalinguistiques. La encore, certains termes, quoique 
réguliérement utilisés, sont toujours en italique (comme “baraka”), d’autres, 
comme “shereefas” ne le sont pas et ne sont pas commentés. 


338 LORENZA MONDADA 


Le texte ethnographique, toutefois, vise un traitement systématique de 
ces phénoménes, qu’il ne distribue pas dans le texte de facon linéaire 
comme le fait la relation de voyage, mais qu’il organise dans l’espace 
abstrait des classes réunissant les phénomenes présentant des similitudes. 
Le texte suivant en est un exemple: 


7: Westermarck, p. 47-48 

There is finally a class of holy men and women that is recruited from idiots and 
madmen (1). Derangement of the mind is always in Morocco attributed to 
supernatural influence. Maniacs are regarded as mejnunin, possessed of jnun, and, 
being dangerous to their fellow-creatures, are locked up in |-marstan, a prison for 
frantic madmen; but harmless lunatics are venerated as saints, whose reason is in 
heaven while the body is on earth. This is the case with the buhili (plur. buhala; 
fem. buhaliya, plur. buhaliyat), the idiotic fool, who is quiet, silent, and generally 
dirty. The same is the case with him who is said to be mejdib (plur. majadib; fem. 
mejduba; plur. mejdubat), a person who is more or less out of his mind, talkative, 
often wearing his hair long (such a person is in Fez called sébsub), but often clean 
in his habits (2). He is considered more holy than the buhali; indeed, of the latter it 
is sometimes said, Buhali hali men rahmat allah, “A buhali is devoid of God’s 
mercy” 

(1) Mouétte, The Travels of the Sieur Mouette, In the Kingdoms of Fex and Morocco (London, 1710) 
p. 89; Windus, A Journey to Mequinez (London, 1725), p. 55 sq; de Chénier, The Present 
State of the Empire of Morocco, 1. (London, 1788) p. 184 [...]; von Maltazan, Reise nach Siidarabien 
(Braunschweig, 1873), p. 348. (2) On the etymology of the word majdub, and the meaning 
given to it in the East, see Godziher, of.dt., ii. 287 sq. 


Ce texte peut étre vu comme une systématisation des procédés que nous 
avons relevés dans les relations de voyages. Il regroupe d’abord ses 
observations dans une “classe,” indépendamment des lieux et des moments 
ou les occurrences de ces membres, des exemples ou des cas singuliers ont 
été observés ou constatés. Les propriétés attribuées a cette classe sont 
générales (a la fois temporellement, “always,” et spatialement, “in Moroc- 
co”), énoncées dans un présent atemporel, et attribuées 4 des voix qui 
n’étant pas identifiées sont traitées comme largement partagées (“attribu- 
ted,” “are regarded,” “are venerated” dans des expressions qui ne précisent 
pas l’agent de ces actions). La volonté de systématisation est présente aussi 
dans le traitement des termes fournis: les termes qui font l’objet de l’analyse 
(“buhali,” “mejdub”) sont explicités dans plusieurs formes grammaticales 
(singulier et pluriel, masculin et féminin), voire renvoyés a leur etymologie 
(note 2) et non seulement développés selon leurs caractéristiques sémanti- 
ques. Les termes sont introduits en tant qu’appartenant a un systéme 
linguistique, comme le montrent les formes métalinguistiques utilisées — qui 
sont bien plus que de simples étiquettes transparentes pour les natifs. La 
langue est présentée a la fois en tant que systéme de potentialités et dans 











COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’AUTRE 339 


son usage articulé (dans l’énoncé entier a la fin de l’extrait 7 — alors que les 
énoncés cités en entier dans la langue des natifs sont rares chez la plupart 
des voyageurs). La systématisation est présente aussi dans le souci de 
fournir d’autres termes régionaux équivalents (“such a person is in Fez 
called sébsub”). Par ailleurs, les termes qui ne constituent pas le focus de 
Panalyse sont simplement expliqués dans des incises (que ce soit en 
présupposant que les indications données permettent au lecteur de recons- 
truire la morphologie du terme, comme dans “mejninin, possessed of 
jnun” ou par une traduction, comme pour “l-marstan, a prison for frantic 
madmen”). 

Le texte ethnographique se présente donc comme un accomplissement 
particulier de certaines potentialités de la relation de voyage; comme elle, il 
peut faire référence a l’expérience sur le terrain de la premiére personne 
(extrait 6) et donc ancrer de maniére particularisante les connaissances ainsi 
recueillies; a la difference d’elle toutefois, il peut beaucoup plus facilement, 
et en vertu de son ambition systématisante affichée, reposer sur d’autres 
textes (voir la note 1 de l’extrait 7) qui sont entre autres des textes de 
voyageuts, mais aussi des traités et des monographies. Ce qui est une 
observation isolée dans la relation de voyage est ici (comme dans les 
Appendices de Segonzac) un élément inséré dans un ensemble, dans un 
texte qui réunit, homogénéise, abstrait les observations particuliéres pour 
produire un discours général. 


4.3. La parole de PAutre: polyphonies et versions concurrentielles 
Le recours a des mots et a des expressions locales ne mentionne souvent 
pas les sources ou ces termes ont été appris, récoltés, suscités ou trouvés. 
Ce sont pourtant des bribes de la voix de l’Autre qui s’y expriment, sa 
“culture” n’étant pas une entité séparable des pratiques sociales interaction- 
nelles quotidiennes qui l’incarnent et la révélent au voyageur. Ces voix 
peuvent par ailleurs étre mises en scéne dans les relations de voyage comme 
dans les textes ethnographiques: les modalités exactes de cette mise en 
scéne sont significatives de la fagon dont cet Autre est connu et reconnu. 
En effet, cette voix de l’Autre est présente mais souvent reléguée dans 
un espace alternatif a celui de la voix du voyageur; ou bien elle n’est citée 
que pour mieux étre réfutée. Elle s’insére donc dans un tissu polémique ot 
elle entre en concurrence avec d’autres sources et ou elle est ainsi souvent 
dépréciée. Nous allons en analyser quelques instances. 


4.3.1. L’assignation d’espaces séparés aux voix divergentes 
Dans ce premier cas de figure, l’appareil des notes intervient 4 nouveau 
pour distinguer deux espaces énonciatifs: 


8: Segonzac, p. 218 
Cette antique cité s’étendait, nous dit-on, d’Hajerat el-Genoua 2 Qern en-Necrani 


340 LORENZA MONDADA 


et a el-Medhouna. On lui donne le nom symbolique de Medinet en-Naas — la ville 
endonmie (1). 
(1) Un informant nous a dit aussi Medinet en-Nhas — la ville du cuivre. 


9: Segonzac, p. 214-215 

Les Riata sont une grande tribu. Leur origine est berbere. Ils l’ont oubli¢e ou la 
renient, et se disent Arabes (1). Seule la fraction montagnarde d’Abel ed-Doula a 
conserve ses traditions; elle fait cause commune avec les Beni Ouarain et parle la 
langue tamazirt. 

(1) Les Riata sont cités par Ibn Khaldhoun parmi les premieres tribus berberes qui 
acclamérent Mouley Idris et assiégerent avec lui les villes chrétiennes de Behalil et 
Mediouna. 


Dans le premier extrait, la version alternative est citée en note, présentée de 
facon différente (“on lui donne le nom” vs “un informant nous a dit 
aussi”) qui oppose une doxa, représentée par le “on” qui n’est pas davan- 
tage précisé, 4 un énonciateur particulier, dont la mention reconstitue une 
situation d’interaction (“nous a dit”). Entre les deux il y a donc une 
asymeéetrie multiple, qui a comme conséquence la subordination d’une 
version par rapport a l’autre. La distribution des deux versions dans des 
espaces textuels différents, l’un dans le corps du texte et l’autre en note, 
semble prévenir un travail interprétatif sur les explications de cette diffé- 
rence, qui peut notamment ressortir d’un probleme d’homonymie ou de 
prononciation (“Naas” vs “Nhas” — et qui pourrait mettre en cause les 
modes de translitération de l’arabe par le voyageur lui-méme). Ce question- 
nement philologique est toutefois rendu impossible par la non disponibilité 
des deux formes dans un méme espace ou I’on puisse les comparer (Goo- 
dy). 

Dans le deuxiéme extrait, la note permet d’appuyer une version qui met 
en doute celle des natifs: un autre phénoméne apparait, celui de l’autorité 
dont certaines versions sont dotées: l’auto-définition des natifs est mise en 
cause part la description autorisée d’Ibn Khaldhoun. La encore, une 
asymétrie forte est organisée entre les deux versions: l’origine des Riata est 
d’abord affirmée; Pignorance de cette origine leur est ensuite attribuée et 
leur discours est rapporté en étant explicitement indiqué comme faux. On a 
la une microcontroverse qui est mise en scéne et résolue dans le texte; et 
qui de facon intéressante laisse des traces dans l’annexe ot le voyageur 
présente une synthése des informations glanées dans son voyage sous une 
forme systématisée: 


10: Segonzac, Appendice, p. 297 

Riata: se disent Arabes mais sont des Braber arabisés: 
Beni Bou Iahmed. 

Beni Bou Qitoun. 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’AUTRE 341 


Beni Oujjan. 

Ahel e-Oued. 

Beni Mgaga. 

Mterkat. 

Beni Senan (Djebel Tazekka). 

Ahel Tahar. 

Mgag¢a. 

Ahel ed-Doula (montagnards demeurés Braber). 


Dans lAppendice, les informations sont généralement ordonnées sous 
forme de listes et de rubriques thématiques synthétiques. Cette mise en 
forme du texte, y compris dans sa nouvelle spatialisation (Mondada 1996), 
accentue les effets de “désénonciation” (Ouellet 1984), c’est-a-dire des 
effets de détachement de celles qui sont présentées comme des informa- 
tions factuelles des conditions de leur énonciation. On trouve néanmoins 
des traces de la polyphonie de l’extrait (25) dans l'utilisation du connecteur 
“mais” qui oppose le dire et ’étre des Riata. Une autre trace du passage de 
la description de l’itinéraire 4 la monographie savante est la description des 
Ahel ed-Doula comme des “montagnards demeurés Braber,” qui signale 
une exception par rapport 4 la caractéristique générale du groupe des Riata 
indiquée au début de la liste (“sont des Braber arabisés”), et en méme 
temps synthétise la description de cette ethnie dans l’extrait précédent 
(“seule la fraction montagnarde d’Abel ed-Doula a conservé ses traditions; 
elle fait cause commune avec les Beni Ouarain et parle la langue tamazirt”). 
En outre, le fait de mentionner les Ahel ed-Doula 4 la fin de la liste est lui- 
méme significatif: les fins de listes constituent en effet une position ot les 
liens d’appartenance 4 la classe censée unifier les items de la liste se 
relachent et ou l’on inscrit donc les entités les moins typiques par rapport a 
celles qui représentent centralement la catégorie, placées au début (cf. 
Mondada, 1994, ch. 3/partie IV). 

Ainsi la différence entre les voix et les statuts qui leur sont accordés 
peuvent se marquer dans la spatialisation du texte et dans la distribution de 
formulations adéquates dans des espaces énonciatifs différents. 


4.3.2. L’asymétrie des voix: Pimposition de valeurs de vérité et 
d’objectivité 

L’attribution d’une valeur asymétrique au savoir local par rapport a d’autres 
savoirs peut se marquer dans le texte lui-méme, sans nécessairement 
recourir 4 une sé€paration spatiale des différents discours: 


11: Segonzac, p. 220 

Taza s’enorgueillit de ses mosquées, seuls vestiges de sa gloire passée. Elle en 
posséde sept, on en peut compter d'ici les minarets. La plus proche de nous, dont 
la tour carrée est plus haute, plus mince que les autres, et renflée du haut, est la 


342 LORENZA MONDADA 


djema el-Kebir, la cathédrale. Elle date de la fin du XIIle siécle et l’auteur du 
Roud el-Qartas déclare qu’elle peut contenir dix a douze mille fidéles. 

En réalité, elle a trente métres de long (Nord-Sud) sur vingt-six de large (Est- 
Ouest). Les sept travées qui la composent sont soutenues par soixante piliers de 
maconnerie blanchis a la chaux. Un coffrage en planches marque la place réservée 
au sultan. Les musulmans racontent que la mosquée de Taza posséde un lustre de 
cuivre qui pése trois tonnes et porte cing cent cinquante bougies. 

Ce lustre est en laiton. I] se compose de douze étages dont l’inférieur peut avoir 
un métre vingt de diamétre et dont le supérieur porte cinq bougies. L’obscurité et 
Yoxydation ne permettent pas de constater si le Coran tout entier est gravé sur ce 
lustre, comme les habitants le prétendent. 


Dans cet extrait les affirmations des natifs (“Pauteur du Roud el-Qartas,” 
“les musulmans,” “les habitants”) sont systematiquement discréditées par le 
texte lui-méme, qui n’est pas ancré énonciativement par rapport a un “je,” 
mais qui oppose aux discours rapportés un discours du constat et de la 
mesure — c’est-a-dire un discours factuel et rationnel. Le point de vue de la 
premiére personne est limité au cadre du récit, au début de l’extrait, ou il 
définit la perspective sur la djema et-Kebir: en la localisant déictiquement 
“ici,” “proche de nous”) et en traduisant ce terme local par une mise en 
correspondance aproblématique dans le systéme du “je” (“la djema el-Kebir, 
la cathédrale” — reprise plus loin comme “la mosquée de Taza”). Ce qui 
suit est une description dont la factualité est accomplie par un discours de 
la mesure et du chiffre, ainsi que par un agencement textuel qui fait 
immédiatement suivre la version citée par une version alternative qui la 
dégrade (comme “un lustre de cuivre”— “ce lustre est en laiton; ” “cing 
cent cinquante bougies”— “cinq bougies”). Les voix locales sont ultérieu- 
rement discréditées par l’affirmation de leur invérifiabilite. 

L’effet général produit par ces extraits est la production d’une asymétrie 
forte entre la voix du “je” dotée d’un savoir rationnel et délivrant une 
version vraie, factuelle, objective des faits, et les voix locales délivrant des 
récits, des opinions, des accusations — c’est-a-dire des discours qui ne sont 
cités qu’avec une ironie qui les renverse. 


5. Je n’est pas un Autre: la production du savoir ethnographique et le 
traitement discursif de Popacité du local 


Les analyses que nous avons proposées dans la deuxiéme partie de cet 
article permettent de soulever, a travers une prise en compte détaillée des 
ressources linguistiques et discursives observables, des questions d’écriture 
qui sont communes 4 la relation de voyage et a l’écriture ethnographique. 
Les deux ont la particularité d’élaborer une connaissance de l’Autre par le 
texte: le texte n’est pas uniquement un moyen de représentation intervenant 
aprés coup sur des objets préexistants, déja 1a ou déja vécus, mais est une 








COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L? AUTRE 343 


médiation symbolique qui intervient de facon constitutive sur les objets 
qu’elle permet de penser, de rendre intelligibles, de comprendre et de 
communiquer. Pour le voyageur comme pour le chercheur en sciences 
humaines, le texte est le lieu ot: s’accomplissent l’interprétation de l’Autre et 
la construction d’un savoir sur lui. 

Les sciences humaines ont été traversées 4 la fin du XX¢ siécle par ce 
qu’on a appelé une “crise de la représentation.” Cette crise Emerge du 
constat qu’une simple description réaliste, neutre et transparente du monde 
n’est pas possible, et que par conséquent la description renvoie davantage a 
ses modes de fabrication, a ses auteurs et a leurs institutions qu’aux choses 
qu’elle prétend décrire. L’opacification de la représentation est un constat 
qui a déclenché en anthropologie la quéte d’autres maniéres d’écrire. I] 
s’agissait de dépasser l’écriture impersonnelle, atemporelle, générique (celle 
qui parle “du” paysan du bocage, ou “des” Dogon) (voir Fabian; Kilani) 
pour adopter une écriture qui admette son opacité, adopte la premiére 
personne, reconnaisse la voix de l’autre, soit plus dialogique (Marcus & 
Fischer; Clifford & Marcus). Cette écriture, fortement critique envers le 
savoir constitué par l’anthropologie dans des contextes régis par les 
institutions coloniales, a d’ailleurs été elle-méme critiquée comme s’arrétant 
davantage sur l’enquéteur et sur ses problémes que sur les interactions et la 
parole des natifs. 

Cette nouvelle quéte entretient un rapport ambigu avec l’écriture de la 
relation de voyage: d’un coté cette derniére exprime précisément la posture 
colonialiste que l’anthropologie s’est ensuite efforcée de rejeter, et avec elle 
un regard sur les natifs empreint de stéréotypes et d’asymétries. D’autre 
part, toutefois, la relation de voyage est ’émanation d’un scripteur qui est 
relativement éloigné de l’Académie et de ses impératifs, qui tout en cédant 
parfois aux vertiges de la compilation savante adopte une écriture préoccu- 
pée de dire l’expérience du voyageur et sa singularité, ainsi que, parfois, de 
faire entendre des bribes de voix locales. Dans ce sens, la relation de 
voyage expérimente avant la lettre certaines des stratégies textuelles 
proposées par les anthropologues contemporains, exhibant a la fois leur 
limitations et leurs potentialités. 

L’analyse détaillée de ces organisations discursives permet de mieux 
identifier les enjeux et les conséquences de choix d’écriture pour la com- 
préhension du terrain et, plus généralement, de l’élaboration du savoir au 
travers des pratiques discursives. Elle permet de s’interroger a la fois 
théoriquement et empiriquement sur les transformations discursives qui ont 
lieu entre les notes de terrain et la monographie (Sanjek), entre le carnet du 
voyageur et la rédaction finale de la relation de voyage; entre la parole des 
natifs observée dans les contextes de leur vie sociale, ou échangée avec 
celle du voyageur dans leurs rencontres au long du parcours, ou encore 
suscitée par l’ethnographe durant ses enquétes sur le terrain et ce que 
devient cette parole une fois inscrite dans les carnets, les fieldnotes, les 


344 LORENZA MONDADA 


brouillons ou les textes définitifs qui seront livrés 4 un éditeur et a un 
public. Les processus qui transforment radicalement cette oralité du terrain, 
cette spécificité des langues locales, cette hybridité des Anguae francae des 
voyageurs, permettent d’interroger, 4 travers une analyse des détails des 
pratiques situées de textualisation du savoir, les modes de saisie, de 
“domestication” dirait Goody, de rationalisation, de la parole de Autre — a 
travers des procédés d’extraction du contexte, d’isolement de fragments, 
d’explicitation, de traduction, d’homogénéisation, de généralisation. De 
méme, ils permettent d’observer les procédés textuels alternatifs déja 
expérimentés par les voyageurs au XIX¢ siécle manifestant une certaine 
reconnaissance de la parole de |’Autre, traite non pas comme un étre 
silencieux et parlé, mais comme un étre parlant, au prix d’une certaine 
opacification et hybridisation du texte, voire de la langue méme du voya- 
geur. 

Université Lumiere, Lyon 2 


Textes analysés 
Lenz, O. Timbouctou. Voyage au Maroc, au Sahara et au Soudan, Paris: Hachette, 1886. 
Segonzac, Marquis de. Voyages au Maroc (1899-1901). Paris: Colin, 1903. 
Westermarck, E. Ritual and Bekef in Morocco [1926]. New York: University Books, 
1968, 2 vols. 


Bibliographie 

Alcoff, L. “The problem of speaking for others,” Cultural Critique, 10 (1991): 5-32. 

Bourguet, M.-N. Déchiffrer la France. La statistique dépar-tementale a l’époque napoléo- 
nienne, Paris: Editions des Archives Contemporaines, 1988. 

Briggs, C. L. “Questions for the ethnographer: A critical examination of the role 
of the interview in fieldwork.” Semiotica, 46(2/4, 1983): 233-261. 

Broc, N. La géographie des philosophes. Géographes et voyageurs francais au XV IIe siecle, 
Montpellier: Université Paul Valéry, 1972. 

Certeau, M. de. L ‘écriture de I’histoire. Paris: Gallimard, 1975. 

Clifford, J. The Predicament of Culture, Cambnidge: Harvard U P, 1988. 

Clifford, J., Marcus, G., eds. Writing Culture. The Poetics and Poktics of Ethnography, 
Berkeley: U of California P, 1986. 

Crapanzano, V. Tuhami. Portrait of a Maroccan. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1980. 

Des Rosiéres, A. La politique des grands nombres. Histoire de la raison statistique, Paris: 
La Découverte, 1993. 

Dwyer, K. Moroccan Dialogues. Anthropology in Question. Baltimore: The John 
Hopkins U P, 1982. 

Fabian, J. Time and the Other. How Anthropology Makes its Objects, New York: 
Columbia U P, 1983. 

Garfinkel, H. Studies of Ethnomethodology, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1967. 

Geertz, C. The Interpretation of Cultures, New York: Basic Books, 1973. 

. Works and Lives. The Anthropologist as Author, Cambridge: Polity, 1988. 

Gellner, E. Saints of the Atlas. London: Widenfeld & Nicholson, 1969. 

Goody, J.The Domestication of the Savage Mind, Cambridge: Cambridge U P, 1977 [tr. 
fr. La raison graphique, Paris: Minuit, 1979). 

Jacob, C. Géographie et ethnographie en Grice Aancienne, Paris: Colin, 1991. 

Kilani, M. “Les anthropologues et leur savoir. Du terrain au texte,” in Adam, J.- 
M., Borel, M.-J., Calame, C., Kalani, M., Le discours anthropologique, Paris: Klinc- 





COMMENT RAPPORTER LA VOIX DE L’AUTRE 345 


ksieck, 1990. 

Knorr-Cetina, K. The Manufacture of Knowledge: An Essay on the Constructivist and 
Contextual Model of Science, New York: Pergamon, 1981. 

Latour, B. “Comment redistribuer le Grand Partage?”, Revue de Synthese, III, 110 
(1983): 203-236. 

. La science en action, Paris: Découverte, 1989. 

Livingstone, D. N. “The spaces of knowledge: contributions towards a historical 
geography of science,” Soaety and Space, 13 (1995): 5-34. 

. The Geographical Tradition: Episodes in the History of a Contested Entreprise, 
London: Blackwell, 1993. 

Lynch, M. Art and Artifact in Laboratory Science: A Study of Shop Work and Shop Talk 
in a Research Laboratory, Boston: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1985. 

Maffi, I. I giochi della scrittura con lo spazio e con il tempo. Due esempi etnogra- 
fici. In U. Fabietti (Ed.), Etnografia e culture. Antropologi, informatori e poltiche 
dell identita. Roma: Carocci, 1998. 

Manoukian, S. L’informatore, la guida, il traduttore. Percorsi della comunicazione 
a Shiraz (Iran). In U. Fabietti (Ed.), E/nografia e culture. Antropologi, informatori e 
pokitiche dell’identita. Roma: Carocci, 1998. 

Marcus, G. E., & Fischer, M. (eds.). Anthropology as Cultural Critique. An Experimen- 
tal Moment in the Human Saences. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1986. 

Mondada, L. Verbaksation de l’espace et fabrication du savoir: Approche linguistique de la 
construction des objets de discours. Lausanne: Univ. de Lausanne, 1994. 

. “La construction discursive des objets de savoir dans l’écriture de la 
science.” Réseaux, 71 (1995): 55-77. 

. “Quelques figures spatiales pour l’écriture du savoir.” EspacesTemps, 
62/63 (1996): 60-75. 

. “Viaggiatori e geografi-etnografi: appunti per un’analisi discorsiva delle 
pratiche scientifiche.” Geotema, 8 (1997): 40-47. 

. “Technologies et interactions sur le terrain du linguiste. Le travail du 
chercheur sur le terrain. Questionner les pratiques, les méthodes, les techni- 
ques de l’enquéte,” Actes du Colloque de Lausanne 13-14.12.1998. Cahiers de 
TILSL, 10 (1998): 39-68. 

. Décrire la ville. La construction des savoirs urbains dans Vinteraction et dans le 
texte. Paris: Anthropos, 2000. 

. “La construction du savoir dans le discussions scientifiques,” Revue suisse 
de soctologie, 26(3), 615-636, 2000. 

Ong, W., Ramus. Method and the Decay of Dialogue, Cambridge: Harvard University 
Press, 1958. 

Ouellet, P. “La désénonciation: les instances de la subjectivité dans le discours 
scientifique,” Protée (1984): 43-53. 

Pratt, M. L. “Fieldwork in Common Places,” in Clifford, J., Marcus, G.E., eds., 
Writing Culture. The poetics and Poktics of Ethnography, Berkeley: U of California 
P, 1986. 

Rabinow, P. Reflexions on Fieldwork in Morocco. Berkeley: U of California P, 1977. 

Roudaut, J. “Quelques variables du récit de voyage,” NRF (1984): 377. 

Sanjek, R., ed. The Makings of Anthropology, Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1990. 

Spivak, G. C. In Other Worlds: Essays in Cultural Politics. Hants: Methuen, 1987. 

Stagl, J..A History of Curiosity. The Theory of Travel 1550-1800. Chur: Harwood, 1995. 

Stocking, G. W. “The Ethnographer’s Magic. Fieldwork in British Anthropology 
from Tylor to Malinowski,” in Stocking, G.W. ed., Observers Observed. Essays on 
Ethnographic Fieldwork, Madison: U of Wisconsin P, 1983: 70-120. 

Tedlock, D. “The analogical tradition and the emergence of a dialogical anthropo- 


346 LORENZA MONDADA 


logy,” Journal of Anthropological Research, 42 (1986): 483-496. 

Urry, J. “Notes and Queries on Anthropology and the Development of Field 
Methods in British Anthropology, 1870-1920,” Proceedings of the Royal _Anthropo- 
logical Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (1 972). 

. “A History of Field Methods,” in Ellen, R-F., ed., Ethnographic Research, 
New York: Academic P, 1984. 





ANTONI MACZAK 





Gentlemen’s Europe: Nineteenth-Century 


Handbooks for Travellers ' 


The Premises. It has been assumed that the whole set of John Murray’s Handbook 

for Travellers for regions and countries of Europe and the Mediterranean published 
between 1836 and about 1900? (along with analogous series by other authors) 
is a valuable, yet hardly explored, historical tool. These handbooks offer good 
information about the countries described, with deep insights about the opinions, 
preferences, expectations, and value systems of their users. 

Unlike most earlier travel reports, often of great intellectual and literary value, 
the new generation of guidebooks offered systematic information on the real 
conditions of travel and accommodation, on the formalities on the frontiers, 
and gave true, i.e., reliable practical information about the countries. The 
nineteenth-century guidebooks inherited traditional descriptions of countries, 
but adapted them to new demands; instead of colourful political or philosophical 
comments and stereotypes they brought rather matter-of-fact information. 

The nineteenth-century publishers had intellectual aspirations but were 
businessmen, too. They knew the market and wanted their products to answer 
what the public demand. Can we assume that what we read in the guidebooks 
somehow reflected the interest and sensitivity of their users? did it reflect the 
countries described? ‘Real’, ‘true’, ‘reliable’ are key terms but always relative. 
The authors and editors did their utmost to serve the particular interests of their 
readers and what they produced probably reflected rather closely the expectation 
of the market, in this particular case the opinion and interest of the English tourist. 
The tremendous success of John Murray Publishers and of their major competitors 


1. An early draft of this essay was presented at a workshop of the Zentrum fir V ergleichende 
Geschichte Europas Berlin and Frankreich zentrum, Y echnische Universitat Berlin, “Travellers, Travel 
and Travel Writing in European Comparison (18th-20th Century)/Reisende, Reisen und 
Reiseliteratur im europaischen Vergleich (18.-20. Jahrhundert),” Berlin, 6-8 June, 2002. 


2. In 1901 John Murray sold the Handbook series to Stanfords, with the e xception of the 
handbooks to India and Japan. The imprint therefore changed and after this date, although still 
called Murray’s Handbooks, they were published by Stanfords. I am grateful to Ms. Virginia 
Murray for this information as well for her other comments and friendly attention to my 
research at 50, Albemarle St. 





Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


348 ANTONI MACZAK 


from abroad (chiefly Karl Baedeker) was a cultural phenomenon that cannot 
be disregarded. 

Our main questions are related both to the reliability of the guidebooks, 1.e., 
their value as historical sources, and to their users, the British tourists. More 
specifically, to what extent can the guidebooks in question help us to understand 
differences between European regions and the changes they were undergoing? 
What new aspects of Europe can be discovered from the information and advice 
in the guidebooks? What picture do we get of the handbooks users as a group 
changing between about 1836-1900? What was their way of life on tour; what 
were their demands, customs and prejudices, their cunosity and general knowledge 
of the Continent? 


John Murtay’s Handbook for Travellers. The title of this essay and its aim 
need some further explanation. Let me start with the basic term: ‘Guidebooks’ 
or ‘Handbooks for Travellers’? The London publisher John Murray III consciously 
introduced this latter term for his publications in order to stress their special 
new character and value; Karl Baedeker followed him in this respect as in many 
others, like the title, size and red hard binding of the volumes. In fact, all the 
guidebooks, no matter who published them, until the mid-twentieth century 
followed the pattern of the early Mzrrays, even if some of them finally chose 
other colours for their bindings. 

The massive run of British tourists to the Continent after the Congress of 
Vienna (1815) soon became a major factor in cultural change both North and 
South of the Channel. The traditional aim of British tourists had been Italy; 
when the railways linked it with the North, it became also a transit country, and 
Brindisi, the southernmost harbour on the Adriatic, unexpectedly acquired major 
importance for the British travelling to the Levant, Egypt and India. But already 
in the eighteen-twenties also the whole Rhine valley from Holland to the Black 
Forest, and the Swiss Alps, attracted massive attention from the English tounsts. 
A strong and increasing British presence in the Mediterranean (Gibraltar, Malta, 
the Ionian Islands, Cyprus, Alexandria) as well as the enthusiasm for the Greek 
War of Independence, contributed to widening the touring area as well. 

In the eighteenth century the published travel reports, often works of greater 
literary than informative value, served as guidebooks. Tobias Smoilett, who 
had journeyed in 1763-65, used the travel memoirs of Georg Keysler (1760), 


3. The standard explanation that could be found in most issues read: “The Guide Books 
which preceded the Handbooks were for the most part either general descriptions compiled 
by persons not acquainted with the spots, and therefore imperfect and erroneous, or local 
histories, written by residents who did not sufficienly discriminate between what is peculiar 
to the place, and what is not worth seeing, or may be seen equally well or to a greater 
advantage somewhere else. They were often mere reprints of works published many years 
before, by no means corrected or brought down to the day . [...| The writer of the Handbook 
has endeavoured to confine himself to matter-of-fact descriptions of what ought to be seen at 
each place, and is calculated to interest an intelligent English traveller without bewildering his 
readers with an account of all that may be seen”. 











GENTLEMEN’S EUROPE: 19TH-CENTURY HANDBOOKS 349 


Thomas Nugent (1749) and even Bernard de Montfaucon (1712). Many English 
travellers, after having crossed the Channel, sentimentally followed Laurence 
the footsteps of Laurence Sterne’s Sentimental Travel (1765) and Smollett’s Travels 
through France and Italy (1766). Traditions of the Grand Tour were still vivid 
in many respects but modern demands changed. Yet after the gap in European 
travel from the revolutionary wars until the Congress of Vienna, modern tourists 
had but few truly reliable guidebooks with up to date information. In the new 
century not even the most valuable old travel narrative responded to the problems 
of the visitor to the Continent. What he needed was current information about 
the quality of inns, roads, hackney coaches and—from the second quarter of the 
century—the railways. The Englishman was particularly nervous about passports, 
visas and police controls. 

In 1831 John Murray of Albemarle Str., London, produced A Family Tour 
through South Holland; up the Rhine; and Across the Netherlands, to Ostend. And this 
is how the book was introduced: 


In the Autumn of 1828, a family party of six persons, with a male servant, 
set out from London... They gave themselves, or circumstances rather obliged 
them to dedicate, just one month to the performance of this tour, which they 
accomplished in twenty-eight days, travelling very much at their ease in the 
carnages of different countnes (not dilligences)—in treckschuyts and steam- 
vessels—saw whatever they considered to be interesting—put up at the first 
hotels—dined sometimes at tables-d’hdte, and at others in their private 
apartments, and were finally set down from the Ostend steam-vessel on the 
Tower-hill, having expended on the whole journey just one hundred and thirty- 
eight pounds.‘ 


“Follow us, you can’t beat us,” was the message. This was the volume announcing 
the Publisher’s serious interest in travel books. Rather untypically, it registered 
a particular family’s concrete experience abroad, but the family remained 
anonymous; aimed at finding how to get inexpensive accommodation, food 
and transport, it seemed to announce today’s red volumes of Guide Michelin or 
even those Exrope for Five Dollars a Day from the nineteen-sixties. 

After the 1830 revolution, in independent Belgium, much of the data from 
A Family Tour lost its freshness but the first step had been made. The publisher 
John Murray IT (1778-1843) permitted his son, John III (1808-1892), to produce 
a new-style volume,.A Hand-Book for Travellers on the Continent: Being a Guide through 
Holland, Belgium, Prusia, and Northern Germany (1836). More volumes followed, 
covering Europe as far as Cape North, Russia and Finland, the Mediterranean 
and particular parts of Great Britain, also India but-strangely enough—never 
any part of America. In the Sixties, a former follower (and future competitor) 
of John Murray, Karl Baedeker, began to publish his German language guidebooks 


4. The tourist party reached as far as Mayence and Frankfurt. 


350 ANTONI MACZAK 


in English and in French.’ Both firms kept their strong family and intellectual 
traditions. They were able to attract scholars and intellectuals. British writers, 
scholars and intellectuals used to gather in John Murray’s drawing room at 
Albemarle St. It was significant that it was where Sir Walter Scott and Lord 
Byron used to meet. Karlsruhe did not offer such intellectual opportunities, 
but a visit of Hans Christian Andersen was noted. German scholars willing 
to cooperate abounded both on the Rhine and later in Leipzig. 

The rivalry of these and other, smaller, guidebook publishers from about 
1860, as well as the changes of English, French and German guidebook markets 
make a separate topic of importance. However, reciprocal recriminations and 
comments in the press illuminated values and vices of editorial programmes 
and of particular publications. Toward the end of the nineteenth century the 
London firm was somehow losing its édan and finally Baedeker, not Murray, became 
a term familiar everywhere in the world, a synonym of ‘the guidebook for tourists’. 

Entrepreneurial achievements and failures of the guidebook competitors 
must remain beyond the scope of this study, but it is an open question to what 
extent the Baedekers published in English took over the British market and what 
special attraction they offered to the English-speaking public. As Percy Lindley 
had it (in 1879), 


In the modest compass of this ‘Guide’ no attempt has been made to embody 
the minute first-to-the-nght-and-second-to-the left detail of the German 
‘Baedeker,’ or the historical amplitude of the insular ‘Murray,’ or the Scotch 
dulness of the blue-bond ‘Black.’ It has been prepared for the especial use 
of those seeking rest or recreation by the Harwich route to the Continent.° 


To the nineteenth-century observer the differences between the ‘German’ and 
the ‘insular’ travel booklets seemed obvious; I shall return to that when discussing 
the readers. Now let me stress that although old guidebooks are today just popular 
collector’s pieces, the role of Marrays and Baedekers as probably the biggest 
publishing programmes of the century has not been properly appreciated.’ Both 


5. Baedeker’s Handbooks for Travellers. A bibliography of English editions prior to World War II 
(Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1975). French Guides Jouanna ought to be mentioned as well 
(in 1855 they were taken over by Hachette), but they did not appear in English in the 19th 
century and never entered into competition with the Baedeker. A. W. Hinrichsen, Baedeker’s 
Retsehandbiicher 1832-1990 (Bevern: Hinrichsen, 1991); Les Guides imprimés du XVT au XX siécle. 
Villes, paysages, voyages. Textes réunis et publiés par Gilles Chabaud (Paris: Belin, 2000). 


6. Percy Lindley, The Great Eastern Railway Company's Tourist-Guide to the Continent (London, 
1879, with numerous later editions). 


7. Along with Brockhaus and with the Bibliographisches Institut, Leipzig (the latter published 
numerous Retsehandbiicher as well). Incidentally, the books devoted to the publishing houses in 
question are either family stories or (valuable) pieces of advertising or even bibliographies. 


A 





GENTLEMEN’S EUROPE: 19TH-CENTURY HANDBOOKS 351 


series were not only technical-administrative but also intellectual achievements’. 
Numerous specialists from diplomatic and consular services, army and navy 
officers, academicians and also ‘private gentlemen-travellers’ and residents in 
foreign countries were invited to contribute to particular volumes with their 
research and writing.’ Subsequent editions were based on fresh research and 
the users’ abundant comments. All editors stressed their close personal control 
of the smallest details. One may assume that the rivalry between the German 
and the English houses could only increase the publishers’ efforts to supply 
exactly what their customers expected and desired. 

The chief invention of John Murray II and the principal asset of his small 
red volumes was a uniform, if flexible, table of contents (general information 
and particular routes). Little was added during the century following the earliest 
issues. The only substantial change seemed to reflect the changes in taste of 
the users. The early Murrays contained much moral advice and a considerable 
amount of long quotations from earlier travel reports or even classic literature 
and poetry. In the earliest Handbook issue, a section on the languages was preceded 
by the following sentence: 


The Emperor Charles V used to say, that in proportion to the number of 
languages a man knew, he was so many more times a man. No one should 
think of travelling before he has made some acquaintance with the language 
of the country he is about to visit.'® 


This was a discouraging suggestion.'’ Such comments disappeared shortly along 
with maxims like “Travel in the younger is a part of education; in the elder, a 
part of experience.” and other, much longer thoughts of Sir Francis Bacon, 
quotations from Samuel Rogers, Laurence Sterne and many other writers filling 
over a dozen initial pages of the first Handbook. The earliest handbook for the 
travellers to Greece (1840) contained classic quotations and assumed basic 
knowledge of ancient history and terminology of architecture. Assumed as well 
was the reader’s interest in poetry, abundantly quoted. In the first handbook 


8. Numerous volumes published by Thomas Cook & Son were much less ambitious and 
constituted a side product of the Cook empire of ‘associated tours’. 

9. For biographies of John Murray’s authors see: W. B. C. Lister and J. R. Gretton, A 
Bibhography of Murray's Handbooks for Travellers and Biogrphies of Authors, Editors, Revisers and Principal 
Contributors (Dereham: Dereham Books, 1993). For the Baedekers a typical writers was the 
“Roniglich-preussische Hauptmann im Fuss-Artillerie-Regiment No 11 Herr Pauli,” who had spent many 
years in Russia. See K. Baedeker, West- und Mittel-Russland. Handbuch fiir Reisende (Leipzig, 1883). 
Alex W. Hinrichsen, Baedeker’s Reisehandbiicher, 1832-1990 (Bevern: Hinrichsen, 1991) mentions 
many university professors, orientalists, cartographers, cooperating with the Koblenz (later 
Leipzig) publisher. Both the Baedekers and the Murrays stressed their own autorship, too. 
10. A Hand-Book for Travellers on the Continent: Being a Guide through Holland, Belgium, Prusia, and 
Northern Germany (London, 1836). 

11. John Murray III’s father allowed him to go to the Continent only after he ‘brushed up’ his 
German. Incidentally, William Gladstone spent many hours every day during his tour through 
Italy improving his Italian. 


352 ANTONI MACZAK 


was the reader’s interest in poetry, abundantly quoted. In the first handbook 
for travellers to the Continent (1836) even a section on baggage alluded to Virgil. 

Along with moral lessons the introductory chapters presented particular 
countries and supplied the reader with hard facts and good advice. But over 
time the authors and the editors paid less and less attention to the police, the 
customs, to passports and visas, to the ‘national character’ and other peculiarities 
of the country and its people. For more exotic countries like Russia or Turkey 
there were hints concerning tipping servants or customs officers and bribing 
local officials (unavoidable anywhere except in Prussia). Railway regulations 
cruelly restricted the size and weight of baggage (an important section in the 
pages of the Handbook). 

Italy-the Peninsula and the Islands—is of interest for this project because 
of political divisions, particularly the changes between 1860 and 1870 in southern 
and central Italy. In Murray of 1862 one reads a/ di qua del Faro: 


Considerable alterations have become necessary in this new edition, from 
the recent political changes that have blotted the Neapolitan monarchy out 
of the map of Europe, the extension of railway and steam navigation 
communications, from the information kindly transmitted to the editor on 
the remoter provinces hitherto little visited by the British traveller, and 
especially from a careful examination of almost every object and place of 
interest at Naples and in its environs during a recent residence in that capital’’. 


The British were glad for political reasons and because the removal of restrictions 
opened the country for unlimited travelling. This was particularly clear in the 
section on passports: 


Most of the annoyances under this head are now done away with, the regulations 
being the same as elsewhere in the Kingdom of Italy, where British subjects 
furnished with Foreign-office [s] passports are allowed to travel without 
hindrance. The principal trouble to the British traveller will be when embarking 
on board the steamers for the Papal States, the visa of the Consul of that country 
being necessary, and this, for a very trifling gratuity, will be obtained by the 


masters of the principal hotels, or at the offices of the steamboats.” 


The Southern-Italy Baedeker of 1869, published in French, recalled the ancen 
régime in Naples: 


12. A Handbook for Travellers in Southern Italy; being a guide for the provinces formerly constituting the 
Continental portion of the Kingdom of the Two Sicalies (London,1862). 

13. Complications with passports and visas in Naples, Sicily and the Papal State are 
meticulously explained in John Murray’s Abridged Hand-Book for Travellers in Naples and Its 
Environs. New Edition Enlarged and Amplified by L.P. ....Naples, 1857); see also _A Handbook for 
Travellers in Southern Italy, 3rd ed. (London, 1858, p. xxv); let us quote but one sentence: 
“Travellers are liable to three custom-house examinations between the frontier and Naples, 
at every one of which a timely fee of a few car/ini will save the traveller much inconvenience.” 





| 


GENTLEMEN’S EUROPE: 19TH-CENTURY HANDBOOKS 353 


[...] les difficultés de passeport a la douane, qui venaient sans cesse importuner 
le voyageur non seulement sur toutes les frontiéres, mais méme 4 l’entrée 
et a la sortie de presque toutes les villes et qu’on ne parvenait 4 surmonter 
qu’au moyen d’un ‘pourboire’, ces difficultés, disons-nous, ont presque 
totalement disparu; et méme les escroqueries des voiturins, des faquins, etc., 
se sont vu tracer des bornes par le nouveau régime, bien qu’on ne soit pas 
encore parvenu a déraciner entierement le mal dans toutes les parties du 
royaume”™. 


‘Encore parvenu a déraciner’ was probably over optimistic, but these few quotations 
show the signs of change meticulously noted by the authors. In the area of 
political changes, Italy was among the most interesting regions,’° but the 1830 
and 1863 Polish insurrections against Russian rule'®, and Russia herself were 
also duly noted. France’s political changes required subtle changes of style and 
tone’’. In the 1873 edition John Murray III formulated his credo: 


In the Twelfth Edition the changes and incidents connected with the Franco- 
German War of 1870-1871, with some accounts of the battle-fields from 
personal examination, have been introduced. Alsace and Lorraine are still 
retained within the present volume, although nearly the whole of these two 
French provinces was ceded to Germany by the Treaty of Frankfurt, May 
10, 1871. It will be long probably before they become attached to Germany 
in feeling and spirit.'® 


Yet, at the same time, most early 1870 guidebooks (not only Murrays) preferred 
to minimalise the Commune de Paris or any destruction caused by street fighting 
that might discourage foreign tourists. 

In this respect the tourist business, represented by Thomas Cook & Son, 
reacted differently from the publishers of guidebooks. Cook was fast to organise 
guided tours to the 1870 battlefields. In 1884 and later, when the Sudanese 
revolt interrupted peaceful sightseeing of the Upper Egyptian antiquities, he 
supplied his steamers and fuel to the War Office and even managed to mobilise 
whale boats from the Atlantic to transport General Gordon’s army. 

While the Baedekers were known for their abundant, clear and exact maps 
and plans, both Cook and Murray could claim usefulness to the British military. 


14. K. Baedeker, L Ttahe. Manuel du Voyageur: II, L Ttalie du Sud et la Sicile (Coblenz, 1869). 


15. ‘Among the mot interesting’ only, because the most valuable Murray is regarded Spain 
(1845) by Richard Ford; particularly to my taste are also the volumes on Greece (the Balkans 
and Constantinople) because of dramatic changes and progress of ‘modernisation’. 

16. Neither the Murrays nor even Baedekers used after 1863 the official Russian term ‘Vistula 
Land’ (in Russian: Privislinskiy kray) but wrote simply ‘Poland’ or ‘Kingdom of Poland’. 

17. Incidentally, Karl Baedeker (the founder) declined to cooperate on a volume on France 
based on the Mumay: “I do not feel inclined to take on such an enterprise. I do not like France, 
I have not been in Paris myself, and do not feel moved to do so.” (K. Baedeker to John 


Murray, 5 June 1844 (translation in the Murray Archive). This emotional attitude had to 
change under market pressure. 


18. Handbook for Travellers in France, Alsace, and Lorraine... 12nd ed. revised (1873), p. 6. 


354 ANTONI MACZAK 


During the Crimean War John Murray supplied Lord Raglan with information 
on the Lower Danube area that he had recently visited, and in 1884 the Cook 
employees provided General Kitchener with their excellent knowledge of the 
Upper Nile.”” Finally in 1915, General Ian Hamilton had to use some ‘small 
guidebooks’ to plan his attack on Gallipoli: were they the Marrays? The newest 
Murray map of the Peninsula was of 1900.” 


The readets of the Handbooks were generally described as ‘gentlemen’, yet 
this term was never clearly defined. “What a gentleman is, tis hard with us to 
define,” argued John Selden, a distinguished seventeenth-century lawyer. 7! 
However, two centuries later some traits became obvious. A gentleman needed 
a substantial fortune, preferably a landed estate. In times of economic expansion, 
and rapid money turnover, the ‘old gold’—so dear to social and moral thinkers 
of the former ages—lost much of its lustre. While the term ‘gentleman’ usually 
had an extensive meaning,” it could be given a restrictive sense as well. Ridder 
Haggard’s dedication to his son is a case in point (“what ... I hold to be the 
highest rank whereto we can attain—the state and dignity of English gentlemen)”.” 
In his mind that ‘dignity’ was somehow closely connected with extensive, brave 
travelling. 

The English abroad were object of great interest, of various comments and 
value judgments. Let us look at some scattered opinions and compare them 
with what can be drawn from the Murrays. At every step of his long Mediterranean 
voyage, the French poet-politician Lamartine sang the high praises of everything 
British, from babies to the men of war: 


AYétage supérieur, on voit, sur un large balcon supporté par de belles cariatides 
et recouvert d’une véranda indienne garnie de rideaux et de franges, une famille 
d’Anglais, ces heureux et impassibles conquérants de la Malte actuelle.— La, 
quelques nourrices mauresques, aux yeux étincelants, au teint plombé et noir, 
tiennent dans leurs bras ces beaux enfants de la Grande-Bretagne dont les 
cheveux blonds et boucleés et le peau rose et blanche résistent au soleil de 
Calcutta comme é celui de Malte ou de Corfou. A voir ces enfants sous le 


19. On the other hand, Cyprus. Special Report. The Representative of Messrs Thos. Cook ¢” Son {1878} 
was of no value at all, just a piece of self-advertising. 

20. W. Fraser Rae, The Business of Travel. A Fifty Years' Record of Progress (London: T. Cook & 
Son, 1891), p. 187; Sir Ian Hamilton, Ga/ipoh Diary (London: Arnold, 1920), I, 17; on 
departure to Gallipoli his staff officers explored the bookshops for maps and guidebooks: they 
found “two small guide books: not a very luminous outfit.” According to Michael Hickey 
(Galhipol, London: Murray, 1995, p. 58) the Turkish survey maps, fifty years old, arrived forty 
eight hours before embarkation. 

21. The Table Talk of John Selden, ed. by Samuel Harvey Reynolds (Oxford, 1892), 72. 

22. “A gentleman and his wife can obtain a reduction’ of ticket price, (Handbook for Travellers in 
Constantinople, Brisa, and the Troad. With Maps and Plans, London, 1893, p. 4). 

23. H. Ridder Haggard, A//an Quatermain (London: Longmans, Green, 1887). 


GENTLEMEN’S EUROPE: 19TH-CENTURY HANDBOOKS 355 


manteau noir et sous le regard brilant de ces femmes demi-africaines, on 
dirait de beaux et blancs agneaux suspendus aux mamelles des tigresses du 
désert. — Sur la terrasse, c’est une autre scene: les Anglais et les Maltais se 
la partagent. D’un cOté vous voyez quelques jeunes filles de Vile tenant la 
guitare sous les bras et jetant quelques notes d’un vieil air national, sauvage 
comme le climat ; de l’autre, une jeune et belle Anglaise, mélancoliquement 
penchée sur son coude, contemplant indifférement la scéne de vie qui passe 
sous ses regards, et feuilletant les pages de poétes immortels de son pays. 

Ajoutez a ce coup d’oeil les chevaux arabes montés par les officiers anglais, 
et courant, les crins épars, sur le sable du quai.” 


Sir Frederick Ponsonby, the Governor of Malta, was for Lamartine an 


excellente figure d’un honnéte homme anglais; la probité et la physionomie 
de ces figures d’homme; — élévation, gravité et noblesse, voila le type du 
véritable grand seigneur anglais. ... Sir Frederick Ponsonby and Lady Emilie 
Ponsonby, sa femme, couple fait pour représenter dignement partout, l’un, 
la vertueuse et nobles implicité des grands seigneurs anglais, l’autre la douce 
et gracieuse modestie des femmes de haute rang de sa patrie. 


Admiral Hotham, Commander of the British squadron on Greek waters, was 


homme excellent, dont la figure et les maniéres réunissent ce rare mélange 
de la noblesse du vieux guerrier et de la douceur bienveillante du philosophe, 
caractére commun des belles physionomies des hommes de l’aristocratie 
anglaise.” 


And finally Captain Lyons, commander of the fregate Madagascar , “Vofficier 
anglais dans toute sa générosité personnelle, [...] ’homme dans dans toute la 
dignité de son caractére et de sa mission,” a gentleman helpful to Lamartine’s 
family, became a representative of an entire English category. 

Not everybody was so fascinated with all things English. Some time later, 
a Polish scholar, Michal Wiszniewski, who had studied in England, travelled 
widely in Italy, and finally settled there, left somewhat sour comments about 
the English travelling to Italy. He enjoyed meeting an Englishman who had 
retired after serving in Canada, but in general the English travellers “walk 
everywhere with Murray’s Guide in hand and with open mouth, through galleries 


and temples, swallowing everything they hear from the most stupid cicerone”.” 


24. A. De Lamartine, Voyage en Orient (Paris: Hachette, 1907), I, 59. Lamartine travelled in the 
Mediterranean in 1831-1832. While his portraits of the English people appear too sweetened, 
the description of the fregate ‘St. Vincent’ am claire de Ja lune is unforgettable (pp. 73-75). 

25. Ibidem, p. 59-60, 91. Mme Lamartine was English and the couple was highly regarded in 
all British stations in the Mediterranean. His comments on the British in general, hdem, p. 66- 
67 

26. M. Wiszniewski, Podréiz do Wtoch, Sycylii i Malty, ed. by H. Barycz (Warszawa: Instytut 
Wydawniczy, 1982), p. 110 (other comments on the English, pp. 37, 46). An argument that 


356 ANTONI MACZAK 


Wily Italians sold them fake Raphaels and Titians, alleged Etruscan roba antica, 
for the Englishman, even without any interest or knowledge of antiques bought 
whatever pictures and other pieces of art he could afford: bringing and displaying 
at home something precious from Italy was a sign of high life.”” 

Wiszniewski witnessed total dominance of the English tourists over any 
other nationality. Fluent in English and looking like an Englishman he often 
had to declare that he was not one. Once a acerone even apologised to him: 
“Scusate, signore, io credeva che lei é un Inglese”: the cicerone must have intended 
‘Inglese’ as a synonym of ‘naive’. Wiszniewski, whose opinion of these tourists 
reflected the caricatures that were popular in England from the time of the Grand 
Tour to Cruikshank’s engravings, would have agreed with Heinrich Heine, who, 
ridiculed a British tourist who admired the Habsburg monument in the Innsbruck 
Hofkirche, following a Guide des voyageurs. However, the unsuspectingtourist 
was ‘doing’ them ... in the wrong direction.” 

Both Wiszniewski’s and Heine’s ironic comments suggest that the guidebooks 
were used even by people of rather modest intelligence, education, and artistic 
experience. And yet, as already mentioned, during the earlier decades, at least, 
Murray Publishers’ handbooks were addressed to well-educated readers with 
considerable knowledge of Latin and even Greek.” 

Meeting foreign nationals (or ‘natives’, for the term was used for Europe) 
highlighted national stereotypes. We may only guess why there could be no 
question that ‘a permanent residence on the Continent was injurious to the English 
character (in every sense of the word)’. And we can imagine why English tourists 
were welcome as wealthy guests but disliked as odd types. 

Brockendon, with his typical common sense and straightforward approach, 
criticised the ‘average British tourist’ and earned a quotation in several John Murray’s 
Handbooks : 


Arrived at a resting place, he either finds or makes fresh grievances. In a 
German hotel, there are generally beds in the best rooms; but this is so offensive 
to the notions of an Englishman, when travelling with his family, that he 
immediately demands, rather than asks for, a sitting room, which the landlord 
has not to give-and remains in ill-humour during the remainder of the evening, 
under the impression that it has been reserved for some more honoured guests.” 


English tourists were not necessarily regarded as highbrow people gets some upport from A 
Guide through the Royal Bourbonic Museum by Laurence Giustiniani and Francis de Licteriis (Naples, 
1822) where one can find a detailed description of lewd items in “A repository of obscene 
objects.” The entire set of Murray’s Southern Italy shows offers many good examples of 
Victorian attitudes. 

27. Many Murray issues contained practical information on customs duties for art pieces and 
other curiosities brought home. 

28. Heinrich Heine, Reésebi/de (III, 8). Heine wrote his travel report in 1829 and published 
it shortly thereafter. The earliest Murray touching that area appeared only in 1837. 

29. Frank M. Turner, The Greek Heritage in Victorian Britain (New Have: Yale UP, 1981). 


30. A Handbook for Travellers on the Continent. (1836). William Brockendon produced a superbly 


GENTLEMEN’S EUROPE: 19TH-CENTURY HANDBOOKS 357 


The student of English guidebooks may easily loose the true perspective and 
identify the English journeying abroad with the traveller in general. The growth 
of original, German-language Baedekers proves he would be wrong. So the question 
is how long and in which regions did the English dominate as tourists 
(advertisement sections offered long lists of hotels with English names, incidentally 
often expressed in French, ¢.g., ‘Hotel de Londres’). The sources in question 
supply much less information about other nationalities. 

If the English gentleman was hard to define, he was easily describable. 
As for the differences between him and his continental con/réres, the oldest issue 
of the Murray, after duly quoting Sir Francis Bacon and Laurence Sterne, cited 
the same William Brockendon: 


The comfort, with which an Englishman—who understands the word better 
than any other-—is likely to enjoy an excursion in lands where the language, 
manners, and customs are so different from his own, will neatly depend upon 
his carrying with him a ready stock of good temper and forbearance, which 
have more certain currency than gold in the purchase of civilities and efforts 
to please. 

A man will see more, enjoy more, and learn more, by carrying with him 
his head and heart in good travelling trip, than can be obtained by having 
his pockets full of letters of credit, without the necessary state of mind and 
feelings. It is a fact deeply to be regretted, that many vulgar and half-witted 
Englishmen think, if they leave home with money, they can command anything; 
that is mean to be civil, and beneath them to feel grateful for any efforts to 
oblige them made by those for whose services they pay The presumption 
of our countrymen is proverbial on the Continent; fortunately, the exceptions 
are numerous.[...] Itis a vulgar prejudice, that all foreigners cheat the English{...]. 

It is a bad feeling to set out with, that you must be always on your guard.*! 


A visit to France, according to John Murray III, should have been preceded 
by a reading (or at least a perusal) of Caesar’s De Bel Galkco (namely in Napoleon 
III’s edition), the medieval chronicle of Froissart (on the Hundred Years’ War) 
and Arthur Young’s analytical travel account of France on the eve of the 
Revolution. This suggestion expressed the editor’s view of his clients. 

As Karl Baedeker (the Younger) wrote to John Murray (III) in 1852: 


You must be aware, Sir, that the number of tountsts is increasing by the year. 
Not only rich people set out as soon as the weather improves, the lower classes 
vie with them in this respect. Students and others belonging to the latter class, 


illustrated Italian journey manual which in some respects preceded the Murrays. Cf. his Road 
Book from London to Naples, Mustrated by Stanfield, Prout, and Brockendon, Engraved by W. 
and E. Finden (London: Murray, 1935). Brockendon belonged to the Murray’s circle of 
friends. 

31. Road Book from London to Naples by William Brockendon, FRS. Illustrated with Twenty-Five 
Drawings by Stanfield, Prout, and Brockendon, Engraved by W. and E. Finden (London, 1835). 


358 ANTONI MACZAK 


wish to know in advance more or less what their journey is going to cost them, 
what they will have to pay at hotels, tips etc. etc. It is the case that England 
provides its contingent of travellers just as much as France and Germany, 
and I would venture to say that the small print-run of the French edition of 
my late father’s Swiss guide is taken up largely by the English.” 


Baedeker was right. A long continental journey was expensive even for the 
well-to-do Britons and one may accept that the Marrays were offering what satisfied 
the upper class or rather the best educated customers (including students, 
mentioned by Mr. Baedeker). This statement gets more vivid colours in the 
later nineteenth century, when Thomas Cook & Son began offering less wealthy 
Britons massive—by contemporary standards—‘associated tours’ (with less elegance 
today we call them ‘package tours’) for.” 

Aggressive and imaginative businessmen, the Cooks soon forgot about their 
initial religious vocation and offered totally secular trips to Paris. They tried 
to steal the highbrow users of the Mzrrays but eventually they fell victims of 
virulent attacks by the social conservatives. An analysis of conflicting opinions 
on the behaviour of tourists abroad may contribute to our knowledge of the 
social change in that expansive age. Characteristically, Percy Lindley not yet 
even mentioned Thomas Cook’s simple but massive guidebook production. 
Whether his clientele belonged to, and behaved as, the gentlemen’s class became 
a subject of stormy and not disinterested discussion in Britain of the eighteen- 
seventies. Who was a gentleman and who did (or did not) behave like one, 
was broadly discussed there.” In the following century the patrician viewpoint 
of the Murrays would be formulated this way: 


[Theirs was] a series which held the field against all competitors till the time 
when cheap travel introduced the vast horde of travellers who cared little 
for intellectual information, and required a totally different class of vade 
mecum—travellers to whom where to feed was a more important question than 
what to see.*° 


32. Karl Baedeker to John Murray, Coblence 20 October 1852; from a translation in the 
Murray Archive, London. 

33. Edmund Swinglehurst, Cook's Tours. The Story of Popular Travel (Poole: Blandford Press, 
1982). 

34. Since the Grand Tour, Paris was for the British the centre of sin. However, in this respect 
a study of suggestions contained in the Handbooks for Travellers to Paris is disappointing 
indeed. Older Cook guidebooks suggest visiting Minzstére des Affaires Etrangéres, Musée de Cluny 
ec. and between these two items suggest /es abattoirs and /a Morgue. Four to six ‘places of 
amusement’ are mentioned but without explanation or address. 

35. See W. H. Russell, LL.D [William Howard], Diary in the East (London, 1869); Thomas 
Cook, Letters to His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, and to the Right Honourable the Earl of 
Clarendon, Foreign Secretary of State [1870]. The question is open whether, or to what extent, the 
Baedekers reflected the traits of the German-speaking well-to-do classes. 


36. John Murray IV, John Murray III. 1808-1892..A Brief Memoir (London: Murray, 1919), p. 
8. 


GENTLEMEN’S EUROPE: 19TH-CENTURY HANDBOOKS 359 


But the Murrays waged a loosing battle with their competitors who better sensed 
the needs of a growing middle-class market and encouraged that ‘vast horde’ 
of tourists. 


Programme and Questionnaire. Three interconnected subjects of analysis 
may be distinguished in this research programme. First, there are the typical 
heuristic problems of reliability of the sources: what was mentioned and described, 
and what was systematically omitted. The editors stressed the first-hand quality 
of information they offered. Indeed, John Murray III had visited the whole 
Rhine basin that he introduced to the English public in his 1836 volume. He 
also visited Switzerland, climbed the Alps and Pyrenees, and was elected member 
of the Alpine Club. Between 1829 and 1843 he spent all his longer holidays 
collecting materials on the spot and writing the handbooks. There are many such 
statements from all the publishers mentioned here. Short biographies of the 
authors compiled by W. B. C. Lister make a list of competent and distinguished 
persons. Nevertheless, some of them were obviously not able to personally 
collect the material they wrore. An example: the Northern Europe of 1839, covering 
Scandinavia, Russia and parts of the German countries, was written by T. D. 
Wheatley while A. H. (later Sir Austen) Layard provided information and checked 
the printed text. However, neither they nor Thomas Mitchell, who took care 
of the 1865-1888 editions (Rwssia), is likely to have written the concise but 
substantial sections on the history of Polish literature. 

However, another kind of information was more important. Murray took 
great pains to include exact information on travel and accommodation, exchange 
of money, and on institutions. How much did he care to update the general 
comments? Karl Baedeker II was strongly critical of the Murvays in this respect.” 
Subsequent editions maintained the same texts in many chapters and sections, 
probably for financial reasons, but the rare changes were important. Let us 
look at the inns in Switzerland, as an example. The third edition (1846) mentions 
substantial changes in the country: 


The improvements of roads, the opening of new passes over the Alps, the 
establishment of steam-boats, and the increased facilities of locomotion, have 
given rise to a thoroughly different system of travelling. Most valuable 
contributions to our stock of knowledge, respecting the natural history, 
resources, &c., of Switzerland, have been made since his time; the geology 
of the country has assumed a totally different aspect; and the ancient political 
forms are now scarcely recognised since the Revolutionary changes which 
occurred after 1830. 


Generally the accommodation there was very clean. And yet, 


37. Karl Baedeker to John Murray, 30 April 1856 and 6 October 1858 (Murray Archive). 


360 ANTONI MACZAK 


still in many instances, even in the first-class inns, the houses are deficient 
in proper drainage and want of ventilation, and the passages and staircases 
are unwholesome and offensive from bad smells. Care should be taken to 
impress on the landlords how disgusting and intolerable to English ideas such 
a nuisance is. There is no excuse for it; as it may be easily corrected. The hotel 
of the Trois Rois at Basle, and the Trois Couronnes at Vevay[s], are creditable 
exceptions, free from this reproach of filthiness and bad odours. 


The problem of offensive smells disappeared only between 1874 (15th) and 
1879 (16th edition), although the ‘creditable exceptions’ were partly changed 
in some editions. This is noteworthy for two reasons, first because the Murray 
firm proudly maintained responsibility for improving hygienic conditions in 
many continental inns and hotels (which is not impossible), and second because 
such comments open the question of mechanical repetitions of text which may, 
or may not, have corresponded to the ever changing reality. For instance: 


Ofall the penalties at the expense of which the pleasure of travelling abroad 
is purchased, the most disagreeable and most repugnant to English feelings 
is that of submitting to the strict regulations of the continental police, and 
especially to the annoyance of bearing a passport. 


So begins the standard section in each of the early Murrays devoted to the 
deplorable necessity of having passports and visas (and reporting to the police) 
virtually everywhere overseas (except in British dominions).** Even in the third 
quarter of the nineteenth century, after most of the frontier restrictions had been 
abolished (with the notable exception of Russia and Turkey), the traveller was 
strongly reminded to obtain a Foreign Office passport, chiefly to prove his identity 
when picking up his mail at the poste restante. But what about the bank offices 
where he negotiated his cheques? In that connection the passport was never 
mentioned. The Handbooks of Travel-Talk” that contained hypothetical conver- 
sations with the banker never mentioned a passport or problems of identification 
for the foreigner. Probably in those happy days whoever looked like an English 
gentleman was unlikely to be an impostor and forger of cheques. Asking for 


38. Incidentally, the image drawn from the guidebooks is little compatible with that of recent 
monographs: John Torpey, The Invention of the Passport. Surveillance, Citizenship and the State 
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999); Waltraud Heindl and Edith Saurer (eds.), 
Grenze und Staat. Passwesen, Staatsbiigerschaft, Heimatsrecht und Fremdengesetzgebung in der 
oesterreichischen Monarchie 1750-1867 (Weimar-K6ln, Bohlau, 2000). For William Gladstone’s 
troubles with French police in October 1850, see M. R. D. Foot and H.C.G.Matthew (eds.), 
The Gladstone Diaries (Oxford:.Clarendon, 1968-84). Incidentally, in the decades of police rule 
after the Vienna Congress, the British “of quality” with a Foreign Office passport had less 
trouble than the natives. 


39. Handbook of Travel-Talk: A Collection of Dialogues and Vocabularies Intended to Serve as Interpreter 


to Travellers in Germany, France, or Italy. By the Editor of the Handbooks for Germany, France, and 
Switzerland (London, eight editions between 1847 and 1871). 


GENTLEMEN’S EUROPE: 19TH-CENTURY HANDBOOKS 361 


a passport could offend the customer, too. 

And finally, what conclusions can be drawn from the fact that in the later 
nineteenth century most of the general information on the regions and nations 
disappear from the guidebooks’ pages? 


Continent Diversified: A Horizontal View. As long as the handbooks 
contained general introductions to particular countries, the result was a ‘tapestry’ 
of civilisations often contrasting with each other. Richard Ford’s volumes on 
Spain (1845) were incomparable classics, but their usefulness was increased 
by the very practical advice from a British consul in Moscow on how Englishmen 
should behave in Russia. John Murray III and his authors gave very specific 
advice, not just vague comments on the “national character.” There is probably 
no better set of information on various sorts of tips, pourboire, bakchish and bribing: 
where, to whom and how much should be offered or not offered.*° This was 
of no small cultural interest, particularly regarding customs officers or other 
public servants. Interesting was the advice on how to address local people of 
various Classes, how reliable were the servants and, even more important, what 
could be bought on the spot and what should be purchased before leaving 
England. This was particularly important for the travel to Greece and the Levant. 
While the figures related to the development of the railways and electric 
telegraph networks (of great importance for journeying Englishmen) are well 
known, the guidebooks reveal how, since when, and how deeply the progress 
of transport and communication in general influenced the conditions of long- 
distance and local travel. The image drawn by the Murrays can be completed 
by various other travel manuals bringing detailed tmetables and prices (the Marrays 
quoted the railway guides and commented on their reliability). The constant 
change from horse carriage to the railway compartment and back to a horse-cart 
seemed to be a dominant element of the continental journey in mid-nineteenth 
century and even later. Matter-of-fact reports on the quality of roads, standards 
and comfort of the post, prices of horse and carriage hire are abundant and 
eloquent. This is true for accommodation and food as well as hygiene. 
All that was closely connected with the modernization processes on the 
Continent. Some changes occurred fast—particularly the congestion of railway 
connections in Belgium, Germany and France, yet the railway Calais-Paris-Marseille 
developed much too slowly to satisfy the English tourists. However, for many 


40. Ludwik Krzywicki, a Polish sociologist saw at the end of the nineteenth century that Polish 
emigrants to America changing trains at the Lehrter-Bahnhof in Berlin had to give ten 
silberpfennig to a railwayman in charge when returning their used their tickets. Dr. Krzywicki, 
an upper class passenger was not approached, and when he asked the official by what right he 
demanded money, he was told “shamelessly” by the railroad employee that it was pure 
courtesy. The man, however, immediately vanished and was replaced by another man who did 
not ask for money. Ludwik Krzywicki, Wspomnienia [Remembrance] (Warszawa: Czytelnik, 
1957-59). 


362 ANTONI MACZAK 


reasons it may prove difficult to sketch maps of relative development as it emerges 
from the guidebooks. In general, it is unrealistic and counterproductive to separate 
strictly the geographic differences from the changes in time. The space and 
the time factors were deeply connected. 


European Tapestry: A Vertical View. There are numerous items that can 
and should be presented and even measured as they change; indeed, the speed 
of change differed more than its direction. The most perceptible elements were 
the customs and passport (visa) formalities at the frontiers, police registration 
at the town gates and the inns. Nothing more palpably revealed the dissolution 
of the Holy Alliance and despotic systems in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies 
(until 1860), changes in the Papal States (till 1870), and the slow transformation 
in Russia and the Ottoman Empire. The impact of social and military conflicts 
(1848, 1870/71) seems unexpectedly rather limited. In contrast, the abolition 
of all police barriers for foreign tourists in Naples and Sicily was mentioned 
enthusiastically. The European Continent now seemed open to the travelling 
gentleman. 

From the mid-nineteenth century the tourist traffic became a visible factor 
of economic development. Thanks to the prevalence of steamer transport to 
the Continent and the railway networks on the Continent— and not without 
encouragement of tourism by the World Exhibitions in Paris and elsewhere—many 
countries simplified frontier formalities. Strangely enough, the railway companies, 
both British and Continental, were slow and often reluctant to cooperate with 
the tourist business. Thomas Cook the Older had difficulties persuading the 
railways to accept his coupons, but, eventually, his invention of the package 
tour was irresistible.” 

As far as the guidebooks are concerned, a close study of their contents—and 
advertisements that were often included separately**—can offer a broad vista 
of development, or improvement’ of railways, roads and hotels. Improvement 
in quantity and quality. Gas and electric light, electric lifts, availability of English 
newspapers and Anglican chapels in the major hotels, English cuisine, and proper 
hygiene became symbols of progress and quality. The Murrays registered all that 
with zeal and satisfaction. The handbooks were manuals of optimism for the happiest 
humans of that age: the English gentlemen. 


Uniwersytet Warszawski 


41. Thomas Cook Ltd. offered not only ‘associated tours’, they served individual travellers as 
well. 


42. Karl Baedeker was proud never to include any publicity in his Handbiicher. 


GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


Lethal Mobilities: Calvin and the Smart Bomb 


deterritorialization that is not just a profoundly lived experience for 

us all at the turn of this millennium (our post-Einsteinian facticity, 
if you will) but the persistent occasion for the staging of ideological productions 
and paradigms whose historical antecedents and consequences can be 
surprisingly long-lived. Tracing the distant genealogies of what appear to be 
unprecedented or merely contemporary ideological moments is dear, of course, 
to the intellectual project that Michel Foucault dubbed the “history of the 
present” and the key to its critical possibilities.’ A journey into the past, despite 
Descartes’s claim that it leads to an estrangement from one’s own time, may 
indeed bring contemporary concerns and situations into closer view.” The 
scholar’s “mobility” in time need not exclude the aim of critically revisiting the 
present. Conversely, the effective critique of the present may well necessitate 
a tour of the past. The following analysis proposes one such historical detour 
into the present. 

A half-millennium of colonialism and postcoloniality particularly beckons 
for such histories of the present. A case in point is the persistent emphasis on 
the Spanish conquest of the Americas as she paradigm of modern colonial 
imperialism-still today and despite the best efforts of critics like Roberto 
Fernandez Retamar.’ The point is not to attenuate or diminish the sheer horror 
of the ‘black legend’ but to consider the extent to which its primacy in the 


Me« is a social practice of space, a dialectic of territorialization and 


1. Michel Foucault, Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison, trans. Ala Sheridan (New York: 
Random House, 1979), p. 31. 


2. René Descartes, Discourse on Method in Philosophical Writings, trans. and ed. by E. Anscombe 
and P. Th. Geach (New York: Macmillan, 1971): 10-12: “But a man who spends too much 
travelling becomes a foreigner in his own country; and too much curiosity about the customs 
of past centuries goes as a rule with great ignorance of present customs.” 


3. Roberto Fernandez Retamar, “Introduction” to Bartolomé de Las Casas, Trés Bréve Relation 
de la destruction des Indes, trans. F. Gonzalez Batlle (Paris: Maspero, 1980), pp. 13-40. Retamar’s 
text has been translated into English under the title, “Against the Black Legend,” in Caliban 
and Other Essays, trans. Edward Baker (Minneapolis: U of Minnesota, 1989), pp. 56-73. 





Annali dTtalianistica 22 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited/ Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


364 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


Western historical imaginary has occluded or diverted attention away from what 
was and has been happening elsewhere. The extent to which indigenous cultures 
have been even more extensively decimated in North America would seem to 
suggest that something far worse if less noisy took place there (and with no 
righteously indignant voice such as that of Bartolomé de Las Casas to reveal 
those events to the world!). 

Clearly, the massive migrations convoked by colonialism have effects as 
lethal as they are varied: exploratory expeditions, sanctioned piracy, “trading” 
posts, “civilizing missions,” religious expulsions and exoduses, settler 
colonialism, the slave trade, the many trails of tears, and the continuing wave 
of migrations, immigrations, emigrations with their resultant diasporas apparent 
throughout the world today. All these differentiated but interrelated mobilities 
have their place within that vast movement Pierre Chaunu long ago termed the 
“disenclavement of the world” to name these worldwide processes of cross- 
cultural interactions (good as well as bad) which began in the fifteenth century 
and which continue today through the phenomena contemporary parlance refers 
to rather glibly as “globalization.”* Even that seemingly most innocuous of 
social mobilities, tourism, can also be shown to have its roots in the practices 
and ideologies of colonialism, a lesson for which the following news item might 
serve as a kind of fable. 


Smart Bombs / Dumb Tourists 

On March 16, 1991 the Associated Press ran a story that the restored govern- 
ment of Kuwait had decided at least temporarily to stop issuing entry visas to 
foreign journalists “because of the lack of basic services such as food and 
water.” The same day, another story, also run out of Kuwait City by the 
Associated Press, chronicled the opening up of the Kuwaiti border to another 
kind of visitor, namely tourists, for whom the horrors of the recent war were 
indeed quite a big attraction. The report is extraordinary and merits full citation: 


Kuwait City — A new breed of tourist is emerging from the rubble of 
Kuwait: war gazers. The largest batch arrived Friday, a planeload of 150 
prominent Americans who spent 8 1/2 hours seeking out the leftover horrors 
of war. 

With loaded cameras dangling from their necks, members of Congress, 
prominent business people and some curious private citizens hit the highlights 
of the recent Gulf War. 

Led by U.S. Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher, the group visited 
still-flaming oil fields, a palace where Iraqis tortured Kuwaitis, and the 


4. Pierre Chaunu, European Expansion in the Later Middle Ages, trans. K. Bertram (Amsterdam: 
North Holland Publishing, 1979): 52-56 and passim. 


LETHAL MOBILITIES: CALVIN AND THE SMART BOMB 365 


“highway of death,” where the bombed-out remains of a huge Iraqi military 
convoy litter the roadside for more than two miles. 

A busload of tourists, mostly Americans living in Saudi Arabia, made a 14- 
hour round-trip to spend two hours taking pictures of burned out buildings 
in Kuwait City. 


Curiously, a country is declared at one and the same time closed to journalists 
but open to tourists, suggestive perhaps of some brave new post-war condition 
to the “new world order” and its high-tech, post-industrial, postmodern style 
of warfare. 

To understand the significance of this historical moment, it is useful to 
remember that traditionally war could be viewed as a kind of spectacle with 
casualties being relatively low and principally restricted to the armed combatants 
themselves. Depending upon the battle’s location, of course, crowds of 
onlookers were not necessarily unusual even as late as the nineteenth century. 
A turning point occurred at the beginning of the American Civil War when a 
large throng of spectators, mainly from Washington D.C., found itself 
unexpectedly caught up in the rout of the Union army at the first battle of Bull 
Run.® In Europe, the outbreak of the First World War likewise triggered a 
festive, picnic-like atmosphere until the grim reality of modern, technological 
warfare was brought home, with a heretofore unprecedented scale of destruction 
that targets not just the enemy’s troops, but his supply lines, industrial base, 
civilian population, ecosystems and even cultural monuments.’ At the same 
time, this apparently limitless extension of war’s destructiveness (the military 
doctrine of “total war”) coincided with the professionalization of wartime 
journalism, including the semi-heroic status often ascribed to war correspon- 
dents and photographers. In the case of the Civil War, the civilian elites found 
they could stay safely at home in anticipation of the battlefield photographs 
taken by Matthew Brady and others. By the mid-twentieth century, even that 
assurance of safety at home was removed as the totalization of warfare under 


5. I cite this report from its appearance in my local newspaper, “War horrors big attraction for 
tourists,” The Sacramento Bee (March 16, 1991): A25. 


6. For a depiction of this event, see William C. Davis, Battle at Bull Run: A History of the First 
Major Campaign of the Civil War (Garden City: Doubleday, 1977): 239-40. 


7. On this question particularly with reference to aerial bombardment of cultural treasures 
during the Second World War, see Charles Whiting’s excellent The Three Star Blitz: The Baedeker 
Raids and the Start of Total War 1942-1943 (London: Leo Cooper, 1987); Niall Rothnie, The 
Baedeker Blitz: Hitler's Attack on Britain's Historic Cities (Shepperton, Surrey: lan Allan Ltd, 1992); 
as well as my “Sites blindés/ Armored Sights,” in L. Diller and R. Scofidio, eds. Visite aux 
armées: Tourismes de guerre/ Back to the Front: Tourisms of War (Caen: Fonds Régional d’Art 
Contemporain de Basse-Normandie, 1994): 219-77. 


366 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


modernism culminated in the “mutually assured destruction” of nuclear carnage. 

For its sake, war journalism reached a peak of sorts during the Vietnam War 
when the television news camera became omnipresent on the battlefield, to the 
consternation of the U.S. military, less for the threat of secrets being broadcast 
than for the disastrous effect on public relations. The daily dose of casualty 
reports and grisly images electronically transmitted from the battle front to the 
public at home ensconced in front of the television set contributed indisputably 
to making the continuation of that prolonged conflict increasingly unpopular 
with the American electorate. 

The 1991 Persian Gulf War marks a particular inflection in this history with 
the concepts of “surgical strike” and limited theater of operations replacing that 
of total war.* Concomitantly, the Pentagon was at pains to limit and control 
the flow of images to a worldwide television audience. Military censorship 
acquired a new vogue with official military journalists basically limited to 
chaperoned tours of installations and supplying an audience for briefing room 
announcements.” Unofficial journalism was manifest everywhere else, of course, 
including the enemy capital of Baghdad, where CNN’s Peter Arnett made a 
name for himself broadcasting live as NATO planes and guided missiles 
bombed the city. Gone seem to be the days when correspondents and 
photographers rode along in the tanks with the troops; increasingly, throughout 
the 1990’s, war reporting meant giving one’s “eyewitness” account from a room 
in the Intercontinental Hotel of whatever country was involved. At the same 
time, such unconventional reporting testifies to the fundamental inability for 
anyone, including the military high command to control televisual and electronic 
image production, a situation further aggravated today by the internet and the 
worldwide web. 

In this postmodern situation, the war tourist suddenly reappears in 
opposition to the journalist as the more readily manipulable subject of an 
ideologically constructed practice of the gaze. Tourism, it should be said, is 
not about seeing the unseen but about seeing what others have already seen. 

It is, as Dean MacCannell has written in his groundbreaking The Toxrist, about 
following designated markers to designated sights which are, as he says, 


8. Indeed, the twentieth century ended not as feared with an apocalyptic world war but with 
a world rampant with scores of small wars, ongoing but regionally localized. Ironically, the 
end of the Cold War and the current ‘globalization’ of world markets seem to have diminished 
the geopolitical significance of many of these conflicts, which have been left to fester 
indefinitely by the international community. 


9. On the question of censorship in the Gulf War in the context of the U.S. military’s blaming 
defeat in the Vietnam War on an uncontrolled media, see John R. MacArthur’s compelling 
Second Front: Censorship and Propaganda in the Gulf War (New York: Farrar, Strauss and Giroux, 
1992) and John J. Fialka, Hote/ Warriors: Covering the Gulf War (Baltimore: The Woodrow Wilson 
Center Press, 1991). 


LETHAL MOBILITIES: CALVIN AND THE SMART BOMB 367 


“enshrined” in some codified manner.'° What do the (presumably American) 
tourists in postwar Kuwait go to see, if not the sights they have already seen 
on television screens. Tourism would be the operation of moving the viewer 
from the place where the image was observed to the place where the image was 
produced. Hardly the stereotypically passive receiver of televisual imagery, the 
tourist is eager to retrace the steps of electronic transmission back to where 
the camera was. Such a tour is indeed a very guided one and thus differs 
markedly from even the most coopted journalist’s desire to find a new scoop 
or “angle”on a situation. The tourist, if you like, does not want a new angle 
but wants his or her body repositioned at the old angle. Perhaps this explains 
why tourists can be welcome, when journalists are not. 

But when such tourists seek to see the “highway of death” or the flaming 
oil fields with their own eyes, they also follow even more specifically in the paths 
of those other televisual machines, the infamous “smart bombs” whose encoded 
itinerary of images and precisely mapped topographical positions enabled them 
to follow—in a way not unlike MacCannell’s tourist—a preordained trajectory 
to an object whose sighting, in this case, was also its destruction. 

The aftermath of the Gulf War would thus once again demonstrate 
MacCannell’s canonical observation that tourism is possible even with the 
obliteration of the tourist attraction; and in this case, the obliteration of the 
object is not even in contradiction with its enshrinement as a tourist attraction, 
but is what actually creates the sight of the attraction in the first place. In the 
case of famous battlefields of the past, for example, roads have had to be paved 
onto them, kiosks installed, various kinds of cannon brought in that are probably 
inauthentic, and so forth, in order to produce markers that let one know one 
is indeed on a battlefield. With the Gulf War, however, we have a battlefield 
marked by traces of obliterated landscape and a telling lack of human bodies 
that, in fact, becomes a new kind of very grisly sight, one that signifies death 
precisely by the conspicuousness of its absence. Another case in point is that 
even a celebrated and very narrowly defined tourist attraction, say Dante’s house, 
can still be a tourist attraction if the house burns down because one can always 
point to it as the spot where Dante once lived and so its sight can always be 
retrieved. In other words, the sight can be obliterated as /ong as it is still marked 
as the site of a reference back to an interpretive center, a home, if you like." 


10. Dean MacCannell, The Tourist: A New Theory of the Leisure Class (New York: Schocken, 
1976): 45, and passim. 

11. See my Travel as Metaphor: From Montaigne to Roussean (Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1992): 
1-25 and passim. Despite Jean Baudrillard’s often repeated claim that signs are not referentially 
linked to the source of their production but are merely ‘free floating’ simulacra, for a 
simulacrum to appear as such, it must at least give the sense that it cow/d be retraced back to 
some sight, some referential site. Only Baudrillard could have written a text like The Gulf War 


368 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


In the case of the smart bombs, the images are relayed back to the base as 
authenticating input. Tourists, of course, send back souvenirs and mementos, 
photographs and postcards. Moreover, their mere presence in large numbers 
day after day can put the site at risk even as their visits mark its value. 
Increasingly, the protection of famous tourist sites from the tourists themselves 
has become a key issue for cultural conservation, as evidenced for example by 
the closing of the caves at Lascaux to the public. There is an implied voyeuristic 
violence in tourism, then, that becomes explicit in the auto-iconoclasm of the 
smart bomb, a violence whose lethal mobility is followed by visual authentica- 
tion. I remember a televised briefing where an air force spokesman stated that 
nearly one-half of all Allied air flights during the Gulf War were reconnaissance 
missions for the purpose of authenticating the reality of the bomb damage done 
by other sorties. 

The mobile action of the cruise missile as deployed in the so-called 
“surgical” strike is not just lethal in terms of the destruction it wreaks but 
“Lethean” as well, insofar as the human losses it inflicts (euphemistically 
rendered by the military jargon, “collateral damage”) seem to fall into oblivion. 
Hence, the anesthetized or “clean war” images of destruction, featuring broken 
buildings but not maimed bodies. No one will ever know, for instance, exactly 
how many Iraqi soldiers lie buried beneath the desert sand in their bombed-out 
bunkers. Illusory and virtual as it may have seemed to a Westerner observing 
the war from afar via television, the lethal repercussions of this apparent ‘video 
game’ were visited literally and materially upon the Iraqi population, whose loss 
and suffering readily gets forgotten amid the pyrotechnics of the spectacle.’ 
It is as if the visual rationality of the smart bomb implied the radical disappear- 
ance of the human from its view. “The more you see, the less you see” is the 
paradoxical lesson of the video clips projected in the official Allied briefings 
as the object, typically a large structure seen from too far away to reveal any 
nearby humans is rapidly approached till we are too close to see any human 
beings followed by the screen going dark as impact occurs, casting both missile 
and target into literal oblivion. And the few score Allied dead (many through 
“friendly fire”) with their individual tributes and stories make the countless 


Did Not Take Place, trans. P. Patton (Bloomington: Indiana U P, 1995). Baudrillard’s most 
developed discussion of his theory of simulacra and his general suspicion of referentiality cam 
be found in Sivulacra and Simulations, trans. S. Faria Glaser (Ann Arbor: U of Michigan P, 
1994). 


12. Among the most passionate and meticulous efforts to document the war’s toll on the Iraqis 
are Ramsey Clark’s contributions, both as author of The Fire this Time: U.S. War Crimes in the 
Gulf (New York: Thunder’s Mouth Press, 1992); and as lead writer for the collective ‘Report 
to the Commission of Inquiry for the International War Crimes Tribunal’ published under the 
title, War Crimes: A Report on United States War Crimes Against Iraq (Washington, DC: 
Maisonneuve, 1992). 


LETHAL MOBILITIES: CALVIN AND THE SMART BOMB 369 


Iraqi casualties even more faceless and forgotten, in a word, dehumanized, just 
as their leader, Saddam Hussein, appears demonized in contrast to the putatively 
rational leaders of the “new world order.” Moreover, when the tourists come 
in, they too see only “bombed-out remains” and “burned out buildings,” the 
so-called “highlights” of the war. Might there also be something dehumanizing 
about tourism and its emphasis on the physical site of the attraction? To phrase 
the question otherwise, what does the tourist forget in catching sight of the 
enshrined monument (or ruin) that has engaged his or her physical displacement, 
that is the occasion for so much mobility? 


Calvinist Aesthetics / Huguenot Colonialism 

Tourism and the smart bomb would seem, rather distressingly, to converge as 
complex and lethal or Lethean practices of mobility and image sequencing. 
Phrased in this way, itis tempting to call such processes “postmodern,” yet their 
roots reach back to an important premodern moment that continues to cast 
a very long shadow over subsequent visual politics. That moment is not the 
overly canonized one of 1492, but perhaps 1592 or thereabouts, when we may 
find some suggestive antecedents of the Gulf War video activity in the visual 
ideologies of Reformation mapmakers and explorers. 

Consider the Ortellian projection world map produced in Antwerp in the 
1580's by the mysterious cartographer going by the name of “Epichthonius 
Cosmopolites” [Fig. 1]. This particular map of the world is set within the visor 
of a fool’s cap, upon which are inscribed in Latin the words, a ‘head good for 
hellebore,’ the herb mythically prescribed to treat madness. Now, the date, style 
and place of the map all point to the cartographer being Calvinist, for while 
Calvinism certainly viewed religious iconography with suspicion as idolatry, 
it left open the use of pictorial and cartographical representation for the 
evangelical purpose of praising God’s creation. Near the beginning of his 
Institutes of the Christian Rekgion, John Calvin writes that the “skillful ordering 
of the universe is for us a sort of mirror in which we can contemplate God, 
who is otherwise invisible.”"* It is “an attestation of divinity so apparent” (p. 
53), and as such, it offers an uplifting counterpart to that unhappy knowledge 
that leads one to an initial cognition of God, namely in the discovery of one's 
own finitude and infelicity: “we are prompted by our own ills to contemplate 
the good things of God,” he writes (p. 37). 

Rejecting the guidelines of secondary commentary and ecclesiastical 
authority (the heresy of hearsay and false witness), Calvinism adumbrates a 
personal relation to texts and the world whose sense is the immanence of self- 
evidence, the testimony of God’s glory to whose wonders the devout Christian 


13. John Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion, ed. John T. McNeill, trans. F. Lewis Battles 
(Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1960): 52-53. 


370 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


bears witness. Such a witnessing destined to redound to the glory of God counts 
among the aims of Calvinist intellectuals and artists, such as Jean De Léry and 
Théodor De Bry. Hence, the Calvinist art that does exist tends towards land- 





Figure 1: Epichthonius Cosmopolites, Fool's Cap Map of the World (1580). 
Courtesy of the Bodleian Library, University of Oxford. 
Douce Portfolio 142, item 92. 


scape painting, still life, floral studies ... and maps, because maps are an eloquent 
way of displaying beauty and symmetry in the world. At the same time, 
however, the perception of human misery, corruption and decadence in this 
same world was supposed to be what motivated the search for or need of God’s 
goodness, what made one receptive to His word. As such, the fool’s cap map 
from Antwerp is an exemplary illustration of Calvinist aesthetics, since it places 
a beautiful cordiform representation of the world in the head of a madman, 
emblematizing the contradiction between humanity’s moral depravity and the 
beauty of God’s creation. The compromise solution enabled here by aesthetic 
expression is a Classic instance of ideology at work, in particular Calvinist 
ideology, which as we know since Max Weber and R. H. Tawney, is connected 
with the early phase of capitalist accumulation, not just in the obvious terms 


LETHAL MOBILITIES: CALVIN AND THE SMART BOMB 371 


of frugality and reserve, but also in the accommodation of specific forms of 
lavishness and ostentation, in strategies for negotiating the “embarrassment 
of riches.”'* As wealth became a sign of one’s potential status among the elect, 
its absence in turn implied one’s reprobation. Another strategy is the legitima- 
tion, as we have seen, of certain forms of art even in a climate of iconoclasm. 

The ideological work of Calvinist aesthetics is similarly to be observed in 
the oldest extant painting made by a European in North America: Jacques le 
Moyne de Mourgues’s depiction of a key moment in the history of a failed 
French Huguenot colony in America. [Fig. 2] In the center of the picture is 
a monument set up in 1562 by a French expedition that was supposed to 
establish the colony. The members of the initial expedition unfortunately did 
not know how —- or refused to do the work necessary — to feed themselves 
and were obliged to leave or starve. A year later, a second expedition set sail.” 
De Mourgues’s miniature then portrays the arrival of this second French 
expedition, headed by René de Laudonniére, who is greeted by the Timucua 
chief Athore. Racial difference is curiously neutralized with the skin color of 
both Europeans and Amerindians being the same, and both being the same 
as the monument bearing the royal arms of France, symbolizing obviously the 
commonality of both peoples’ subjugation under the French king, present in 
his absence, of course, through the phallic signifier of the upright column. 
That this pillar is honored idolatrously by the Timucua is typical again of 
Calvinism’s iconoclastic iconography, here too offering a beautiful representation 
of the folly of representation, a folly that further underscores the reprobate status 
of a humanity without the salvation of God. 

A traveler and an artist, de Mourgues was a devout Calvinist and floral 
painter who was sent along with Laudonniére to make a visual record of the 
French expedition to Florida. That venture ended in disaster when the Spaniards 
massacred the Huguenot colonists. 

A few remaining survivors, including de Mourgues, took refuge in England 
where all the relevant material fell into the hands of Richard Hakluyt and Sir 
Walter Raleigh, who put it to good use in planning the British colonization of 


14. See, of course, Simon Schama’s monumental, The Embarrassment of Riches: An Interpretation 
of Dutch Culture in the Golden Age (New York: Knopf, 1987), as well as the classic works by Max 
Weber, The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism, trans. Talcott Parsons (London: Allen and 
Unwin, 1950) and R. H. Tawney, Re/gion and the Rise of Capitalism (New Y ork: Harcourt, Brace 
and Co., 1926). 


15. The most extensive account of the French expeditions to Florida is by René de 
Laudonniére himself, L’histoire notable de la Floride, written upon his return to France in 1665 
but not published till 1586 in Paris by Guillaume Auvray. 


372 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


Virginia -- and we know the rest of that story.'° De Mourgues’ painting thus 
frames an important moment in the colonization of North America, whose 
effects still remain insufficiently examined in the context of post-quincentennial 
debates about Columbus precisely because the North American input tends 
to get forgotten, just as its indigenous peoples have been even more decimated 
and silenced than have their counterparts in the Latin areas of the hemisphere 
despite the worst excesses of the conquistadors whose brutal massacres of an 
incalculable number of native American peoples (most likely numbering in the 
millions) constitute the ‘black legend’ of the Spanish conquest. 





Figure 2: Jacques Le Moyne de Morgues, René de Laudonniére and Chief Athore Visit 
Ribaut's Column (1564). Bequest of James Hazen Hyde, Print Collection, 
Miriam and Ira. D. Wallach Division of Arts, Prints and Photographs, 

The New York Public Library, Astor, Lenox and Tilden Foundations. 


De Mourgues painting, in its turn, offers a northern European encoding 
of the representation of native Americans as well as a preview of the different 
path colonization would take in the North. 

In the Spain of the 1550's, public debates took place between conquistadors 


16. On this strange sequence of events, see Frank Lestringant, Le Huguenot et /e sauvage, 2° ed., 
(Paris: Klincksieck, 1999): 149-202. 


LETHAL MOBILITIES: CALVIN AND THE SMART BOMB 373 


and Dominican friars over whether the autochthonous inhabitants of America 
were to be treated as nonhuman beasts of burden, or as human souls to be 
converted.'’ Such debates do not seem to have engaged the Calvinists, 
interested neither in slaying nor in converting, for while the Spanish Catholic 
alternative is inhumanly brutal, it does at least minimally acknowledge the 
facticity of the Americans an “others,” whose presence must be confronted in 
some way. And as we know since Martin Buber and Emmanuel Levinas, the 
full recognition of the other as an ‘other’ is the foundational moment of ethics, 
whether those resulting ethics be good or bad.'* The Calvinist indifference to 
indigenous peoples, on the other hand, might more properly be termed an 
aesthetic response, motivated no doubt by the theological primacy of the 
Augustinian doctrine of predestination, which implicitly makes conversion like 
salvation itself an act of God rather than of human beings, be they the righteous 
ministers themselves. Hence, a level of written and pictoral description that 
is more dispassionate or more objective. Indigenous rituals and behaviors are 
described with an accuracy unusual for the time, since the author is merely 
following through on the injunction to provide eye-witness testimony to the 
fallen state of an unredeemed humanity. Hence, their texts, such as Jean de 
Léry’s History of a V oyage to the Land called Brazil, often figure today—and especially 
since Claude Lévi-Strauss’ praise of that text as the “breviary” of ethnography'— 
as a more politically correct or at least more sensitive treatment of indigenous 
peoples. 

Such a rosy view of these texts conveniently forgets to confront the Calvinist 
coloniai legacy. In many respects, the Spanish conquest remains a feudal 
exercise in subjugating a foreign population, a trans-Atlantic prolongation of 
the long reconquista of the Iberian peninsula itself. In contrast to this mobility 
of the Spanish imperium, that foreseen by various Calvinist leaders rather 
invokes the theme of a refuge or safe haven for their persecuted brethren. The 
French Huguenot lord of the Admiralty, Gaspard de Coligny, envisioned such 
Calvinist havens in Brazil and Florida and outfitted the French expeditions there 
in the 1550’s and 1560’s with that exact aim in mind. These utopianized havens 
quickly took on the allure of promised lands, beautiful uninhabited terrains 
needing only to be tilled by the hardworking hands of the righteous to bounty 


17. For a detailed discussion of these debates, see Lewis Hanke, A// Mankind is One: A Study 
of the Disputation Between Bartolomé de Las Casas and Juan Ginés de Sepulveda in 1550 on the Intellectual 
and Religious Capacity of the American Indians (De Kalb: Northern Illinois U P, 1974). 


18. Martin Buber, I and Thou, trans. Ronald Gregor Smith (Edinburgh: T. and T. Clark, 1937); 
and, from among his many other works, Emmanuel Levinas, Ethics and Infinity, trans. Richard 
A. Cohen (Pittsburgh: Duquesne U P, 1985). 

19. Claude Lévi-Strauss, Tristes Tropiques, trans. J. and D. Weightman (New York: Pocket, 
1977): 76f. 


374 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


forth their cornucopic treasures. If Spanish Catholicism supplies the model 
forimperialism, Calvinism supplies a powerful ideology for settler colonialism, 
whose mode of dealing with the presumed non inhabitants of the land is to 
encroach on their terrain, displacing them, at first haphazardly, then eventually, 
more systematically through their forced removal to distant reservations or 
‘homelands.’ 

The painting of Laudonniére’s arrival is the only one that remains of the 
42 de Mourgues made in Florida. Despite their loss, we know about the others 
through their being reproduced in the 1590's by a Calvinist refugee in Germany 
named Theodor De Bry, who between 1590 and 1630 edited and lavishly 
illustrated a monumental collection of over twenty-five voyages to the New 
World and elsewhere. These were deluxe folio editions with copperplate 
engravings that revolutionized the representation of the New World.” Playing 
again upon the contradiction between the beauty of visual symmetry and the 
moral ugliness of godless humanity, the De Bry engravings portray Native 
Americans either as metaphors of a forsaken or accursed humanity, prey to sin 
in the absence of God’s grace, and therefore like Catholics, hence possibly 
cannibals, because Catholics after all ‘eat’ the body of Christ... or as metaphors 
of the Calvinists themselves to the extent that they were likewise victims of 
Spanish imperialism. De Bry’s work was also an explicit effort to combat what 
were viewed as Spanish atrocities throughout Europe, notably those committed 
in Flanders under the Duke of Alba, freshly returned from the New World. 
This is the reason why De Bry’s Amerindians look like Rhinelanders or Belgians, 
and indeed, the lesser-known texts that accompany the better-known images 
often put one in the place of the other. Elegant depictions of moral ugliness 
can be justified in terms of religious proselytizing. The first two volumes of 
De Bry’s collection feature French Florida and English Virginia, later ones 
illustrate Girolamo Benzoni’s description of the New World, Hans Staden’s 
trip to Brazil, and a number of other voyages. I believe that these works 
comprise an early attempt to intervene culturally on a wide scale through a 
combination of print and visual media in the reception and development of 
a socio-political process, in this case the Protestant colonization of North 
America, a process that would inalterably displace existing Americans while 
retaining the site for transplanted Europeans (who have ever since called 
themselves “Americans”). At the same time, these texts and images demonstrate 


20. Theodor de Bry, Collectionum peregrinationum in Indiam Orientalem et Indiam Occidentalem 
(Frankfurt: M. Marian, 1590-1630). On the massive iconographical, ethnographic and 
rhetorical achievement of Theodor de Bry’s work, see especially Bernadette Bucher, Icon and 
Conquest: A Structural Analysis of the IMustrations of De Bry’s Great V oyages, trans. Basia Miller Gulati 
(Chicago: U. of Chicago P., 1981) and Michéle Duchet, L’Amérique de Théodore de Bry: une 
collection de voyages protestantes du XVF siécle: quatre études d’iconographie (Paris: CNRS, 1987). 


LETHAL MOBILITIES: CALVIN AND THE SMART BOMB B75 


the advent in the late sixteenth century of a Northern European—and, in 
particular, Calvinist—representational hegemony. 


Lethean Imperialism and Settler Colonialism 

This representational hegemony legitimates the process of settler colonialism 
by ‘aestheticizing’ the other out of existence. Specifically, the ethnographic 
precision that draws such praise from modern scholars for early modern 
Calvinist travelers also works to situate the indigenous people described as part 
of the flora and fauna of the land projected for colonization. This process of 
meticulous description simultaneously makes the indigenous object disappear 
into the local nature, which is itself destined to vanish while the hard-working 
settlers build a new society as the culmination of their providential journey into 
the (mirabile dictu!) deserted but fertile land destined by God for His chosen elite. 
The autochtonous inhabitants of what has become “God’s country” either 
become the vanished reminders of a barbarous prehistory or, should they 
manage somehow to impose themselves into the settlers’ view, they then appear 
as a sudden and inexplicable “problem.” While arguably less directly lethal than 
that Spanish feudal mode of imperialist conquest, Calvinist-inspired settler 
colonialism is more effectively Lethean in its ability to forget who once inhabited 
the land in question, and as a consequence, ultimately less tolerant of indigenous 
claims whenever the autochtonous inhabitants do make a resurgence. 

One of the most astute critics of this colonial process as it played itself out 
in North America was the Quebec-born founder of French Louisiana, Pierre 
LeMoyne d’Iberville (though himself a brutal, self-serving colonialist in his own 
right).”" In a series of reports written to the Royal Minister Pontchartrain, 
urgently beseeching the French crown to support his Louisiana colonization 
schemes, Iberville paints a dramatic and indeed prophetic picture of British 
settler colonialism’s success in North America. As opposed to the French 
tendency in this period to establish only trading posts that serve merely as the 
base of operations for dispersed trappers and fur traders (the infamously unruly 
“coureurs de bois”), the British according to Iberville maintain a true ‘spirit 
of the colony,’ made manifest by their settlement as families grouped together 
in rapidly expanding townships. As the population of these settlements grows 
and multiplies, the entire colonial territory expands, gradually spilling over 
beyond the Appalachian mountains, thereby displacing increasing numbers of 
Indians from their lands and encroaching upon the French trading zones. With 
demographics on the side of the British, Iberville prophetically warns in 1699: 

“in less than a hundred years, [the English colony] will be strong enough to 


21. See my “The Concept of Colony: From Laudonniére to Iberville,” in Nowveaux Actes de la 
Nouvelle Orléans, ed. E. R Koch, Biblio 17, 131(2001): 143-150. 


376 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


seize the whole of America and to expell all other nations.” ” 


At about the same time, in Europe, an exiled French Huguenot living in 
England published perhaps the most influential of all guidebooks to Italy for 
northern European travelers. The ‘New Voyage to Italy’ (1691) successfully 
turns the representational apparatus of Calvinist colonialism not onto a 
putatively deserted land overseas providentially destined for God’s chosen elite 
but onto the traditional cultural hub of Europe. Maximilien Misson’s guide 
to Italy was used by virtually every traveler on the Grand Tour, that early 
modern aristocratic version of tourism. Misson’s work stressed the beauty of 
the Italian landscape, the grandeur of Roman art and architecture, and so forth; 
but always in tandem with an exposition of the ruins brought on -- not by 
Barbarian hordes, but -- by the moral decadence of Catholicism. The book was 
viewed as so offensive to Catholic authorities that it was put on the Index of 
Prohibited Books almost immediately, and travelers to Rome frequently had 
their copies confiscated. Montesquieu mentions this risk, as do De Brosses 
and others all the way up to Goethe and Stendhal.” On the other hand, most 
of these tourists unquestioningly accept Misson’s depiction of Italy, which 
following the split representational code by which Calvinism portrays the 
indigenous other, effectively separates ancient Rome (full of past virtues and 
glory to be recuperated by the modern visitor) from contemporary Italy (which 
is bizarrely described by Misson as deserted, depopulated and decadent). 
Modern Italians appear as scarcely more than usurping squatters living in the 
shadows of ancient Roman glory, and are persistently denigrated as superstitious, 
unclean, ill-natured and of an ignorance comparable only to the “Tobinabou” 
of Brazil (I, 249) -- the people most famously described a century earlier by none 
other than de Léry! In short, Italians are a kind of modern primitives with no 
apparent connection to the ancient Romans. Writing against all those who 
maintain an “advantageous prejudice” in favor of Italy, Misson argues the 


22. Pierre LeMoyne d’Iberville, Méwoire de la Coste de la Floride et d’une partie du Mexique in Pierre 
Margry, Découvertes et établissements des Francais dans l’onest et dans le sud de l’ Amérique septentrionale, 
1614-1698: mémoires et documents inédits, (Paris: Jouaust, 1876-1886), 5: 322-23 (my translation). 


23. Maximilien Misson, Nouveau voyage d'Ttale (De Hague: Henri van Bulderen, 1691). I cite 
from the English translation: A New Voyage to Italy (London: R. Bently, 1695). On Misson’s 
book and its legacy, see Hermann Harder, Le Président de Brosses et le voyage en Itake au XV le siécle 
(Geneva: Slatkine, 1981), pp. 21-77; and Pierre Laubmet, “Les Guides de voyage au début du 
XVIII* siécle,” Studies in Voltaire and the Eighteenth Century 32 (1965): 269-325. In his Lettres 
Jamiliéres écrites dTtalie, Charles de Brosses sardonically describes his carriage being searched 
upon entering Rome and the confiscation of his Misson by customs officials, “au profit de 
Inquisition” (ed. Frédéric d’Agay, Paris: Mercure de France, 1986, 1:27, Letter 37). Itis also 
interesting to note that one of the only critical readers of Misson should have been a woman 
traveler to Italy. See my, “Goodbye Columbus: Madame Du Boccage and the Migration of 
Identity, or not exactly La Ve de Marie-Anne,” Annali d'Ttalianistica 14 (1996): 409-24. 


LETHAL MOBILITIES: CALVIN AND THE SMART BOMB 377 


reprobate state of its inhabitants who show insufficient care and respect for 
their past (by, for example, building churches out of the rubble of ancient 
monuments) and live miserably despite a pleasant climate and fertile land. The 
objective correlative in this dialectic is Calvinist Holland, of which Misson writes 
approvingly: “A Country like this is not naturally Habitable; yet, Industry, 
constant labour, and the Love of Profit, have brought it into such a State, that 
there is not in the World, one so Rich, and So well Peopled” (I, 14). 

What is striking about the manifest absurdity of Misson’s ideologically 
inflected ‘guide’ to Italy is that it should have been so readily accepted by a 
northern European readership eager, in the eighteenth and early nineteenth 
centuries, to appropriate the trappings of the Roman imperium for itself while 
abjecting those who inhabit its land of origin. Indeed, the book successfully 
models what became and in many places still remains the longstanding 
prejudices and derogatory stereotypes about Italy and Italians. Key to Misson’s 
ideological success, like that of other Calvinist texts, is the claim to the authority 
of an eyewitness: “I only give a sincere and natural Account of my own 
Observations, or of what I heard from Persons of unsuspected Credit” (I, a6 
verso) The apparently non-intrusive narrative proposes the “realism” of a subject 
reduced to a mere gaze, which is all the more suspect for the powerfully 
effective denial of its manifestly ideological content as simple common sense 
observations. It is the perfect “guidebook” because it guides the reader’s gaze 
all too well to see a certain Italy and not another, to overlook the denigrated 
modern inhabitant in favor of the ancient architectural splendor from which 
one can derive virtuous inspiration. 


* * * 


One can follow the ideologies and practices of Calvinist colonialism in many 
other parts of the world. The South Africa of the Great Trek, for example, again 
showcases the concept of a providential exodus into an uninhabited, fertile land 
available for settlement by the righteous. The subsequent denial of indigenous 
rights, most notoriously through the regime of apartheid, was supported by the 
Bruderband’s claim that Europeans and Africans arrived in the area at about 
the same time, as if the early Dutch depictions of Hottentots did not suggest 
otherwise. 

The settler colonialism legitimated by the Calvinist eyewitness ideology, 
in short, constitutes a mobility as lethal as it is Lethean. It preserves for itself 
a good conscience—no stigma of a black legend here!—in the face of colonial 
oppression through the repression (in the Freudian sense) of the indigenous 
cultures it aestheticizes out of existence and through their practical disappear- 
ance by their forced displacement onto distant ‘homelands’ or reservations. 
This good conscience is rattled and its repressive features revealed by the 
unheimlich return of the displaced and forgotten victims of colonialism. “We 


378 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


are here because you were there,” reads a popular tee shirt in the UK during 
the 1980’s in pointed reminder of the British Empire’s “return.” Not only does 
the arrival of large immigrant populations from former colonies appear as an 
inexplicable “problem” to contemporary European nation-states but so too the 
sudden appearance around the globe of significant indigenous populations long 
considered to be on the verge of extinction: the Mayans in Central America, 
the Aborigines in Australia, the Maori in New Zealand, etc. 

And, finally, in the hypermediatized space of postcolonial geopolitics, there 
is the constant emergence and disappearance of “hot spots” whose human 
victims can be exquisitely scrutinized, represented, visualized, pictured and 
ultimately forgotten. Is the visual politics of globalization but the final stage 
of a Calvinist imperialism, realized most literally in the cruise missile that most 
keenly visualizes what it sets out to destroy? In this way, televisual war, like 
tele-evangelism, may not be at all in conflict with Christian fundamentalism. 
Perhaps the real danger in the “new world order,” then, is a return to the 
endemic state of the religious wars in early modern Europe, wars that continue 
unconsciously to shape contemporary American ideology, including in the place 
of New World “savagery,” the obsessive Western dread/ fantasy of Islamic Jihad. 
The American need for sanitized warfare in order to pursue world domination 
with a good conscience may not be simply a recent reaction to the Vietnam war 
and its legacy of bad memories and ethical compromise. Rather, it points to 
an old repressive apparatus that has legitimated American colonial aspirations 
since its Reformation beginnings, a dialectics of seeing and not seeing, of 
territorialization and deterritorialization. To describe the United States as is 
often done as a nation in perpetual mobility is still, however, to glimpse only 
a small piece of its complexity, for what is lethal and Lethean (i.e. repressive) 
about that mobility is the panoply of other mobilities its sets in motion: not 
just the initial mobility of settlers or tourists but the forced dislocation of other 
peoples until their ultimate disappearance from view. The threat of oblivion 
and forgetfulness may be the secret face of the smart bomb as a technical 
marvel, the ideological underside behind its invention and deployment. As such, 
the task of the cultural critic is to recall those other mobilities ‘collateral’ to the 
American grand narrative as it continues to act itself out, now on a manifestly 
global scale of action. 


University of California, Davis 


WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 





La fallacia dell’autenticita 
(con osservazioni sull’Olanda di Arbasino) 


Va a giraa l’Olanda, ca l’America I’€ granda (detto milanese) 


un tema dalle numerose sfaccettature, con una valenza “essenzialista” 

accanto ad un’altra “politico-culturale”. Se, da un lato, l’ambizione di 
cogliere I’“essenza” del luogo visitato é sembrata impresa disimpegnata, per 
un certo tempo, da un altro lato, la volonta, di mettere la mano sull”“autenticita” 
dell’altro é apparsa poi, alquanto paradossalmente, come una delle numerose 
manifestazioni -- accanto alla globalizzazione o al turismo di massa -- di un 
attegeiamento di dominazione dell’altro. In questo contributo si cerchera di 
circoscrivere il problema dell’autenticita in funzione di quest’ultimo sviluppo 
e di proporre l’analisi di un caso particolare -- un testo di Alberto Arbasino 
-- dove uno scrittore-viaggiatore contemporaneo fa i conti con questo problema. 
La vena sotterranea del potere economico nella percezione culturale dell’altro, 
esibita nella letteratura di viaggio, é stata abbondantemente messa in luce dag 
studi culturah. Per quel che riguarda la letteratura odeporica prodotta in Italia, 
Giorgio Pullini ha indicato ’aumento notevole in essa di tali considerazioni 
economiche e culturali a partire dal secondo dopoguerra.’ Il viaggio e il 
viaggiatore, maggiormente se nel contesto dell’industria turistica, lungi dall’ 
osservare l’altro e spiegarlo, sembra abbiano come effetto di sopprimere il 
carattere originale della cultura visitata. Tale soppressione non é necessariamen- 
te di carattere materiale: é lo sguardo del viaggiatore a trasformare il luogo 
visitato in parco d’attrazione. 

Gia agli albori dell’era del viaggio organizzato l’indole dominante e perfino 
annullatrice spiccava nel processo, avviato molto presto, della codificazione 
del viaggio. La scelta dei percorsi del Grand Tour, ad esempio, s ispirava ad un 
ordine prestabilito e anche le guide classificavano le mete, proponendo, a 


if tema dell’autenticita é al centro delle odierne preoccupazioni odeporiche: 


1. Giorgio Pullini, “V. G. Rossi e la letteratura di viaggio” in G. Grana, ed., Novecento. 
I contemporanei: GK scrittori e la cultura Jetteraria nella societa italiana (Milano: Marzorati, 
1979-1989), 7: 800. Anche altri critici hanno messo in rilievo l’indole riflessiva della 
letteratura odeporica italiana contemporanea (cfr. n. 3). 





Annali dTtalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


380 WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 


dispetto del loro cosiddetto carattere oggettivo, itinerari parziali, dunque 
selezionati. Tale catalogazione implicava una riduzione dello spazio dell’altro 
a certe componenti peculiari, una settorializzazione dell’altrui luogo con selettivi 
occultamenti e rivelazioni. Nello stesso tempo, a misura che le attese si 
consolidavano, gli organizzatori del viaggio tendevano ad agire sulle mete four- 
istiche, riducendo la ricerca del vero ad uno spettacolo, ad una rappresentazio- 
ne. Dall’era della presenza dell’altro si entrava in quella della “presentificazio- 
ne” di esso. 

Lo sviluppo della fotografia ha contribuito al processo che fece slittare 
il viaggio ad un’ operazione di verifica deila riproduzione dell’originale. Inutile 
dire che la crescita del turismo ha reso piu marcato questo suo carattere 
soppressore. I] concetto di velocita, quale proposto da Virilio, si applica bene 
alle odierne esperienze del viaggio, ridotte per lo pit a brevi e banali accerta- 
menti di idee preconcette. Quanto alla relazione con altro, lo stesso turismo 
di massa tende a “consumare” 1 “veri” costumi dell’altro destinandoli se non 
all’estenuazione e alla scomparsa, per lo meno al mantenimento artificiale 
attraverso l’episodica messa in scena per turisti. Viene spontanea l’associazione 
con i famosi “giardini zoologici umani” allestiti alla fine dell’Ottocento in 
occasione delle grandi fiere internazionali organizzate nelle varie metropoli 
europee: gruppi di indigeni delle colonie furono importati ed esibiti in un 
contesto ‘autentico’. Talvolta si scelse za /oco la donna incinta per far coincidere 
il parto ed i primi mesi del neonato con il periodo della fiera. Con la frequenza 
delle fiere internazionali in aumento, tali gruppi si spostavano direttamente 
dall’una all’altra, piegandosi alle rispettive richieste di rappresentare, a seconda 
dell’interesse locale, tale o tal’altra tribu “africana” indigena, lontana talvolta 
dalle proprie origini. Qualche volta si mettevano anche in sciopero per ottenere 
un compenso pit vantaggioso. Siera, davvero, approdati all’era dello spettacolo 
e del simulacro. 

L’idea di aver visto, se non vissuto, tutto prima della partenza e la paura 
dell’omologazione culturale hanno generato, all’esempio di Lévi-Strauss”, un 
sentimento di disincanto e, nello stesso tempo, di nostalgia per i tempi dei 
“veri” viaggi. Viene tuttavia da chiedersi se queste vaghezze, nel loro tentativo 
di sfuggire influenza nefasta del turismo, presentino davvero l’autentico altro? 
se nel viaggio e nella letteratura di viaggio un incontro immediato, da pari a 
pari, con l’altro risulti affatto possibile? In altre parole: sara forse superato il 
concetto stesso di “autenticita”, facilmente riconducibile, per altro, 
al’opposizione “registro oggettivo vs soggettivo” saldamente legata alla 
tradizione odeporica in epoca moderna? Gli autori sei e settecenteschi, a mo’ 
d’esempio, s’adoperavano per mettere fine alla tradizione “bugiarda” delle 
relazioni di viaggio, considerando nefasta l’inclinazione alla fiction ed insistendo 


2. Ricordiamo l’espressione nota della sua preoccupazione per la “fine dei viaggi”, tratta da 
Tristes Tropiques (Paris: Plon, 1955). 


LA FALLACIA DELL’AUTENTICITA 381 


sulla doverosa veridicita di esse. Interviene a questo punto, sintomaticamente, 
anche in ambito italiano, una preferenza data alla saggistica. Con la pratica 
dell’“inviato speciale” e dell’inserzione di reportages in terza pagina, avviata 
all’epoca di Edmondo De Amicis, giornalismo e letteratura d’invenzione si 
ravvicinano. Numerosi studiosi della letteratura odeporica italiana’ sottolineano 
tale legame tra saggistica e narrativa riscontrabile in gran parte dei testi di viaggi 
italiani contemporanei e ha portato ad una rivalutazione del genere concepito 
non pit solo come descrittivo ma pure come riflessivo. 

Tuttavia, forse pid centrale della questione del genere, nell’evoluzione della 
letteratura odeporica riguardo al problema dell’autenticita, é la sottostante 
questione del soggetto. L’altro viene letto da un soggetto e questa lettura € per 
forza soggettiva, essenzialmente individuale. E la tesi principale dei dialoghi 
calviniani tra Marco e il Khan. La lettura dell’altro é lettura di se stesso tramite 
Paltro. L’esperienza stessa del viaggio, maggiormente se tradotta in relazione 
scritta, redatta ulteriormente e ricostruita con la memoria, sono ineluttabilmente 
parziali. I parametri linguistico-culturali del viaggiatore costringono la letteratu- 
ra odeporica ad essere “un atto di traduzione che agisce di continuo per 
produrre un fitto ‘spazio intermedio’.”* Sarebbe perfino plateale indicare la 
varieta di fattori che condizionano la costituzione di questo spazio intermedio, 
luogo di transito altrettanto che luogo di bloccaggio: lingua, ideologia, educazio- 
ne, visione del mondo, pregiudizio, ecc. Semiologicamente parlando, sono rare 
le corrispondenze termine a termine tra culture distanti. Affacciandosia luoghi 
ignoti, il viaggiatore non li legge in modo “ingenuo” ma pieno d’aspettative 
condizionate dal bagaglio della cultura di partenza. Reazione sintomatica: il 
viaggiatore procedera spesso per confronti e paragoni con il luogo d’origine 
cercando cosi di esprimere — e di addomesticare — Pignoto. Puo sembrare 
significativa, quindi, la soluzione proposta da vari critici letterari italiani — 
Debenedetti, Cardona e Clerici’ — all’impossibilita di avere accesso incontamina- 
to al mondo nuovo da esplorare: focalizzando sul proprio ed unico itinerario 
— mentale pit che geografico — il viaggiatore odierno riesce a ridare senso al 
viaggio. Paradossalmente, il tentativo di ridimensionare una soggettivita 
ingombrante conduce per queste vie proprio all’apoteosi del soggetto. La 
3. Quanto a questa relazione, ci limiteremo a citare, in un primo momento, i nomi di Enrico 
Falqui e di Alfredo Gargiulo e, in seguito, quelli di Elvio Guagnini, Luca Clerici, Angelo 
Pellegrino, Monica Farnetti, Gaia De Pascale. 


4. James Duncan e Derek Gregory (a cura di), Writes of Passage. Reading Travel Writing, (London: 
Routledge, 1999): 4. 


5. Giacomo Debenedetti, “Quaderni del 1962-1963”, in I/ romanzo del Novecento (Milano: 
Garzanti, 1998): 326; Giorgio Raimondo Cardona, “I viaggi e le scoperte” in Letteratura italiana. 
Le questioni (Torino: Einaudi, Torino, 1986): 713; Luca Clerici, I/ viaggiatore meravighato. Italiani in 
Italia (1714-1996) (Milano: il Saggiatore, 1999): XXIII. Si vedano anche Angelo Pellegrino, Verso 
Oriente. Viaggi e letteratura degli scrittori italiani nei paesi orientali (1912-1982) (Roma: Istituto della 
Enciclopedia Italiana, 1985): 156-157; De Pascale 238-239. 


382 WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 


mobilita del soggetto non garantisce l’emancipazione dalla soggettivita. Se pur 
in modi diversi, dai percorsi medievali destinati a purificare il pelegrino, alla 
Bildungsreise e perfino agli itineran turistici che assicurano a destinazione le stesse 
strutture del luogo di partenza, l’io scopre e riesce a definire la propria identita 
in interazione con l’altro. Si pensi, per la tradizione odeporica italiana, agli 
itinerari europei settecenteschi di Algarotti, dei Verri e di Baretti, al “processo 
di auto-identificazione”® deamicisiano, o ad esplorazioni novecentesche, 
altamente personalizzate, come quelle di un Goffredo Parise, un Gianni Celati, 
per esempio. 

La centralita schiacciante del soggetto viaggiatore ha spinto alcuni critici 
della letteratura odeporica occidentale - Porter, Pratt, Spurr, Grewal’ - a 
denunciare l’eurocentrismo, addirittura l’imperialismo, di essa, muraglia contro 
la quale si urta qualsiasi tentativo d’incontro ‘autentico’ dell’altro. Una disamina 
della letteratura di viaggio occidentale rivelerebbe anzitutto una posizione di 
potere e il consecutivo “privilegio” di essa a non dar voce all’altro. Se per gli 
uni la figura dell’altro ha destato paura e per gli altri fascino, é altrettanto vero 
che pochi viaggiatori-scrittori hanno resistito alla spesso usuale sfiducia dell’al- 
tro, sfiducia individuata ed illustrata da Luigi Monga in alcune connotazioni 
negative della parola “straniero”.® Sono state identificate numerose strategie 
— spesso contraddittorie — adottate dal soggetto peregrinante a sostegno -- 
oggettivo se non consapevole — della propria autorita: approccio estetizzante, 
idealizzante, spregiativo ecc. Senz’altro, uno dei procedimenti pit subdoli ed 
influenti é consistito nella propensione, seppur inconsapevole talvolta, a 
concepire il luogo dell’altro come uno spazio prevalentemente se non esclusiva- 
mente naturale piuttosto che sociale’. Se il viaggiatore-scrittore trascura l’altro, 
negandolo in un certo senso, come presenza culturale autonoma e coeva, quello 
che ha luogo non si puo dire incontro. Le relazioni di viaggio dedicate all’A fri- 


6. Valentina Bezzi, De Amics in Marocco. L’esotismo dimidiato. Scrittura e avventura in un reportage 
& fine Ottocento (Padova: II Poligrafo, 2001), p. 36. 


7. Si vedano Dennis Porter, Haunted journeys : Desire and Transgression in European Travel Writing 
(Princeton: Princeton UP, 1991; Mary Louise Pratt; David Spurrd, The Rhetoric of Empire: Colonial 
Discourse in Journalism, Travel Writing, and Imperial Administration (Dutham: Duke UP, 1993); 
Grewal, Inderpal, Home and Harem: Nation, Gender, Empire, and the Cultures of Travel (Durham: 
Duke UP, 1996). 


8. In particolare, Monga (34) contraddistingue una prima “serie” di coppie fondata sul concetto 
della “stranieta” (stranger/ strange, straniero/ strano, étranger/ étrange, extranjero/ extrano) e una 
seconda categoria di binomi in cui sale alla ribalta Videa di “anomalia” (strano/ estraneo, strange/ 
extraneous e la loro parentela con lemmi quali stravagante, extravagant, extravagante). 


9. Ci riferiamo al concetto di “negazione di contemporaneita” approfondito dall’antropologo 
Johannes Fabian ed inserito in un contesto odeporico da Mary Louise Pratt come procedimento 
complementare ai processi di “deculturazione” e di “deterritorializzazione” da lei esaminati. 
Johannes Fabian, Time and the Other : How Anthropology Makes its Olyect (New Y ork, Columbia UP, 
1983): 35. Mary Louise Pratt 64. 


LA FALLACIA DELL’ AUTENTICITA 383 


ca, comprese quelle italiane per la maggior parte, mettendo in luce la natura 
travolgente e il carattere cosiddetto ‘eterno’ del continente, rappresentano 
esempi convincenti del suddetto atteggiamento. In seguito, l’altra cultura 
appare quasi sempre come “luogo mentale piu che reale” (De Pascale 60) , 
luogo non trovato ma costruito. 

A questo punto, se un “vero” incontro con l’altro appare impossibile, se 
autentico scappa continuamente di mano, ci si potrebbe chiedere se abbia 
ancora senso registrare le esperienze odeporiche e, nello stesso tempo, a piu 
forte ragione, se oggi, di fronte alla omologazione culturale, al turismo ridotto 
a commodity, abbia ancora senso viaggiare fout court? Numerosi viaggiatori- 
scrittori, come d’altronde gran parte dei turisti stessi, cercano di distanziarsi 
dalle “truppe” di turisti, insistendo sul proprio carattere distintivo di “vero 
viaggiatore” alla ricerca di quel che rimane di autentico. In effetti, niente di 
pit turistico, spesso, anzi perfino di moda, che i luoghi cosiddetti “meno 
turistici”. Un analogo paradosso, leggermente ironico per chi se n’intende, é 
quello del “best kept secret in town” usato per pubblicizzare i ristoranti “tipici” 
dove vanno solo i /ca/s. In contrasto con il “turista” — elemento indistinto di 
una comitiva, con lo sguardo superficiale, invasore e corruttore di tutti gli spazi 
— il “viaggiatore” é curioso, si sposta da solo e rispetta 1 luoghi visitat. 
Tuttavia, Pinteso /ow impact non trasforma fondamentalmente la posizione 
dell’“anti-turista”, elemento anch’esso dell’industria del viaggio. La curiosita, 
la solitudine e la contemplazione riproducono i contegni caratteristici per 
eccellenza del viaggiatore all’epoca del Romanticismo, adottate nostalgicamente 
in una versione aggiornata. La ricerca dell’autentico tanto ambito dagli “anti- 
turisti” viene, in realta, “prescritta” dal loro sguardo “romantico” (Urry). 
Parimenti, il desiderio di salvare i pochi barlumi rimasti di un’altra cultura é 
ispirato da questo “modello” anche col fine di assicurare la continuazione del 
modello stesso. Sembra tanto meno autentico lo sforzo di proteggere le ultime 
tracce quanto pecca lo stesso sforzo mantenendo viva la suddetta “strategia” 
padroneggiante della “negazione della contemporaneita.”" 

Non si bada, infatti, all’evoluzione storica dell’altro e, nello stesso tempo, 
si trascurano gli elementi ricevuti da e trasmessi ad altre culture. Si prescinde, 
in altre parole, dal carattere ‘costruito’ di qualsiasi cultura. Particolarmente 
stimolantie risolutive in questa direzione sono state le proposte dell’antropolo- 
go culturale James Clifford sulle culture assunte come costruzioni sociali e 
quindi “mobili”."’ Quel che conta é il processo bidirezionale messo in moto 
dalla cultura: invece di rovistare freneticamente e in modo egocentrico i luoghi 
dell’altro come depositi di oggetti “autentici”, il viaggiatore dovrebbe mirare 


10. A questo proposito si veda Ali Behdad, Belated Travelers: Orientalism in the Age of Colonial 
Dissolution (Dutham: Duke UP, 1994). 


11. James Clifford,, The Predicament of Culture: Twentieth-Century Ethnography, Literature, and Art 
(Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1988). 


384 WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 


alla reale trasmissione inter-culturale, mettere in rilievo il carattere misto dei 
prodott “transculturali”, frutti di una dinamica di dialogo in atto. La nozione 
di “autenticita” appare perciO superata in quanto legata a parametri il cui 
contenuto € soggetto a continue variazioni a seconda del contesto storico- 
culturale. Chi vuole accettare, oggi, la sfida lanciata dalla letteratura di viaggio, 
dovrebbe prendere le mosse da una consapevolezza, da un lato, dell’ambiguita 
dei concetti ricuperati nel discorso odeporico e, dall’altro, delle ineluttabili 
implicazioni dell’aver fissato altro in uno spazio astorico. Una tale letteratura 
di viaggio, tenendo in conto la “dinamica” in atto, viene opportunamente a 
rispettare ’autonomia e la contemporaneita dell’altro (Pratt). 

Alcuni viaggiatori-scrittori contemporanei si sono resi conto del carattere 
problematico, paradossale e circolare, della nozione di autenticita. Assumono 
pienamente la soggettivita del punto di vista del viaggiatore, accettando nella 
stessa mossa l’inesistenza di una -- in alcun modo raggiungibile -- autenticita. 
I] testo odeporico si fa anch’esso ‘mobile’, accogliente alla contraddittorieta 
caratteristica di una zona di transito culturale, di intermediazione bidirezionale 
pit che di rivelazione. La costruzione mentale a cui necessariamente vengono 
sottoposti l’altro e l’altrove non esclude tuttavia una certa cognizione di essi. 
Tra questi viaggiatoni della penna, disingannati nella ricerca del ‘vero’ ma non 
disillusi, si possono annoverare, nel periodo postbellico, tra altri, i gia citati 
Gianni Celati, Goffredo Parise, Alberto Arbasino. Di quest’ultimo vorremmo 
qui mettere in luce un testo — il saggio sull’Olanda — che confronta le numerose 
facce della problematica dell’autenticita. 


* * * 


Mettendo “alla berlina la superficialita, il bailamme e il pressappochismo con 
cui in genere vengono accolte, malmenate e ridotte a sterile moda le esperienze 
culturali di altre societa”'’, Arbasino é diventato oggi lo sprovincializzatore per 
eccellenza della cultura italiana. Lo scrittore-saggista di Frate/i dTtaha é il 
portavoce di una Ku/turknittk pungente che biasima l’abbassamento dei valon 
e spinge gli italiani —e non solo gli italiani—a salvaguardare le proprie capacita 
riflessive. Il viaggiatore-scrittore sa che la tanto temuta banalizzazione si é 
impadronita da tempo delle odierne esperienze di mobilita. Arbasino quindi 
non s’illude: gli effetti del turismo sul carattere “autentico” delle zone non 
occidentali sono devastanti e gli indigeni imparano velocemente il valore di 
scambio dei loro usi tradizionali. Arbasino, tuttavia, rifiuta nello stesso tempo 
di chiudere Pocchio sulle affascinanti insidie offerte dall’ossessivo inseguimento 
dell’autentico. Percid, pur rimpiangendo l’affollamento delle “mandrie” di 
turisti, il critico della cultura cerca di imboccare percorsi alternativi, in senso 


12. Geno Pampaloni, “Arbasino uno e due,” Cormere della Sera (23 gennaio 1969), riapparso in 
M. Belpoliti ed E Grazioli (ed.), Réga 18. Alberto Arbasino (Milano: Marcos y Marcos, 2001): 
170. 


LA FALLACIA DELL’AUTENTICITA 385 


geografico, certo, ma anche intellettuale. Detto diversamente: quello arbasinia- 
no non é il solito antiturismo, la moralistica condanna del ferrurista. Arbasino 
capisce che un viaggiatore si costruisce in anticipo un’immagine del posto dove 
fa scalo e che un ritorno ad un’epoca senza commercio del viaggio é impossibi- 
le. In un certo senso, parte in viaggio proprio per ricercare esempi 
d@’omologazione culturale, consapevole della difficolta di “afferrare” Pautentico, 
anzi, con lo scopo di fare 1 conti con tale situazione di profonda ambiguita 
culturale. Percid si muove pur li dove confluiscono le comitive di turisti, 
riconoscendo la propria partecipazione all’industria del viaggio. Fattosi 
viaggiatore-scrittore, il suo sguardo, altamente soggettivo, non si limita al campo 
in cui si muove l’altro. Nel campo visivo arbasiniano Valtro e il viaggiatore 
s‘incontrano. Si costituisce cosi un campo meta-odeporico d’ incon- 
tro/confronto, campo dove soddisfare la “fame di significato”’’ suscitata 
dall’esperienza del viaggiare. Lo stereotipo, segno una volta inconfondibile 
della riduzione dell’altro a oggetto di rappresentazione, diventa a sua volta 
argomento di riflessione. Il viaggio si compie non spostandosi dal punto A 
al punto B, bensi attraversando le varie rappresentazioni di B prodotte da A. 
Antagonista tradizionale dell’autentico, lo stereotipo viene qui riesumato e 
indagato, nella sua prismaticita, in quanto stereotipo. Al termine del percorso 
si profila, senza gioco di parole, |’autenticita dello stereotipo. Nel caso 
dell’Olanda, emblema del buon governo — sia di uomini e di cose che di mari 
e di terre -- attraverso un’amplificazione, retoricamente ricchissima, di questo 
stereotipo e di altre derivate, tramite, pure, ironici marginalia di relativizzazione, 
il lettore viene accompagnato nel suo viaggio d’esplorazione per una terra, ben 
nota, non-esotica, la quale alla fine si scopre depositaria, niente meno, della 
soluzione di tutte le contraddizioni. Meta del viaggio era appunto nowhereland, 
dimostrazione del fatto che qualunque viaggio moderno, lontano o vicino a 
casa, € ormai un viaggio verso l’altrove di se stessi. 

Fatto non raro nel processo creativo dello scrittore, il testo sull’Olanda 
é in realta un iper-testo costituito da una serie di versioni successive. II testo 
in fieri appare nella raccolta pubblicata da Feltrinelli nel ’68 sotto il titolo Off 
Off Nel capitolo, intitolato Satisfaction — da prendere nel senso letterale e con 
un riferimento facilmente afferabile ai Rolling Stones e alla cultura pop - 
Arbasino pone il problema della categorizzazione tripartita della cultura in high, 
mid e lowcult tirando in ballo le posizioni filosofiche di un Adorno, un Horkhei- 
mer e un Benjamin. Impresa dichiarata del volume, come di tanti altri scritti 
dello scrittore, d’altronde, é di mettere in crisi la concezione esclusivamente 
“alta” della cultura, smascherando gran parte della cosiddetta cultura highbrow 
come ripetitiva e insignificante, rivalutando d’atra parte come rilevante tutto 
un settore ritenuto “di massa”. Piu tardi ritroviamo il testo, ampliato e con il 
titolo Olanda, mito di un’Europa diversa come prefazione alla Guida del Touring 


13. Eric J. Leed, The Mind of the Traveler. From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism. New Y ork: Basic 
Book, 1991). 


386 WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 


Club Italiano dedicata ai Paesi Bassi, del ’77. Molte riflessioni riappaiono 
ulteriormente nella “presentazione” posta alla riedizione di Oanda di Edmondo 
de Amicis"’. Le pagine sull’Olanda definiscono un modello di cultura, portatore 
dei veri valori diun umanesimo moderno e liberato da pregiudizi. Nello stesso 
tempo, tuttavia, il riferimento cultural-geografico del discorso, il tema odepori- 
co, si dissolve a mano che si ordisce, da una versione all’altra dell’ipertesto, la 
trama di un discorso che solo odeporico non puo piu essere avendo assunto 
dimensioni di critica e di teoria culturale troppo insistenti. 

Il fatto stesso che il testo sull’Olanda é€ essenzialmente evolutivo - con 
le varianti, omissioni, integrazioni e riordinamenti attuati tra le varie versioni - 
illustra a che punto il progettato resoconto di un’entita geografica, sia pure 
plurale e prismatica — l’Olanda come realta geografica, fisica, morale, sociale, 
culturale, politica, storica, artistica, aneddotica, mitica ecc. -, da parte di un 
soggetto che scrive, debba risultare a sua volta prismatica ed evolutiva, in 
contrasto con le “schede” turistiche su cui lo stesso Arbasino ironizza nella 
presentazione di De Amicis. Le successive ‘testualizzazioni’ sottolineano se 
non altro il fatto che non esiste, per l’odeporica, tra ’oggetto descritto e il testo 
che lo descrive un rapporto biunivoco. La meta della guida turistica é illusoria 
e ingannevole alla base: la prefazione alla “guida” del TCI non puo essere letta 
altrimenti che come parodia delle ambizioni naives, smisurate e comunque fuori 
luogo di ogni collana di questo tipo. Il motivo di fondo: tutte le “guide” sono 
in qualche modo varianti di quella citata con ironia nella presentazione di De 
Amicis: Petite Planéte. Piccola non puo essere mai; il contrario, piuttosto, si 
verifica. Articolatissimo macrocosmo dalle infinite stratificazioni e ramificazio- 
ni, tale appare anche l’Olanda sotto lo sguardo arbasiniano. E non solo 
POlanda: é in ballo qualsiasi entita geografica che si riveli pseudo-geografica 
e cripto-culturale perché innaturalmente sforzata entro limiti territoriali da 
manuale di geografia o da atlante scolastico o da libro di storia. Pressoché 
irrelevante diventa addirittura per Arbasino la territorialita stessa. Il discorso 
del “viaggiatore-saggista” non trova un luogo preesistente: crea il luogo 
descritto. I] territorio si dissolve e al suo posto subentra “il luogo topico” 
(EDA 87), deposito di cultura e di idee disponibili per un approccio cognitivo. 
Nel caso di Arbasino, per di pit, la misura in cui la prospettiva sull’Olanda -- 
sull’“altro” -- provenga da una lente italiana e si rivolga con scopi informativi 
ad altri lettori italiani si riduce notevolmente. Tale caratteristica appare 
occasionalmente come parametro inopportuno e come esempio da non seguire 
nel commento su De Amicis, il quale troppo spesso “svolge lezioncine ginnasia- 
li” (EDA 7), “si limita a compilare una scheda” (9) 0 troppo spesso si specchia 
nel “Calendario De Agostini” (6). Un riferimento all’angolo di visione italiano 


14. Genova, Costa & Nolan, 1986; rinvii nostri alle versioni successive indicati “OO”, “TCI” 
e “EDA” per, rispettivamente Off off, Guida del TCI, Olanda di De Amicis, seguiti dal numero 
della pagina. Sulla questione della “scrittura infinita di A. A.” si veda il libro omonimo di C. 
Martignoni ef a/. (Novara: Interlinea, 1999). 


LA FALLACIA DELL’ AUTENTICITA 387 


appare semmai nell’elaborato e provocatorio confronto tra Venezia ed Amster- 
dam, tra una citta-incubo o citta-spettro — cosi la vede Arbasino -- che si trova 
agli antipodi di una citta-sogno, tangibile utopia, quale Amsterdam (TCI 2). 
O, altrettanto provocatoriamente, |’Italia puo apparire come rappresentante del 
“Sud nero” in disforico contrasto con l’Olanda neo-umanistica e neo-illuministi- 
ca euforicamente evocata (EDA 87). Il viaggiatore, qui, non é l’ambasciatore 
che delle “altre” cose viste e udite rende conto al pubblico suo rimasto a casa; 
é osservatore, erudito e critico, di fenomeni culturali sparsi sul globo terrestre 
e interconnessi nel piu complesso dei modi. 

Riguardo agli itinerari iniziatici della cultura europea Arbasino non 
sottoscrive ai dogmi del sapere di massa, all’ineluttabilita di alcune tappe 
culturali “obbligatorie” — Parigi, Londra, Spagna, Grecia — nell’educazione 
dell’individuo colto. In quel che si riconosce facilmente come parodia della 
classica Bi/dungsreise, i criteri di valutazione del cursus “formativo” vanno 
riconsiderati in funzione, non tanto del luogo commune rassicurante 0 del mito 
collettivo troppo “risaputo”, bensi della sostanza reale insita nel contributo dei 
singoli pinnacoli della cultura e apparsa solo alla luce di una clinica osservazio- 
ne oggettiva e talvolta dissacrante: the times they are a changing, come cantava Bob 
Dylan. Nel riordino storico-culturale proposto da Arbasino in seguito a tale 
riorientamento chiarificatore, la “scoperta” (TCI 1) dell’Olanda nell’ 
“apprendistato europeo” (1) € paragonabile solo alla rivelazione del tutto 
inattesa e al tardo riconoscimento di cio che la cultura viennese — del “secolare 
nemico asburgico” (1) — aveva contribuito alla cultura europea del ventesimo 
secolo - “serra calda di quasi tutte le idee piu significative” (ib.). Ma perché 
POlanda, of a// places? Perché “nella patria dei formaggi e degli zoccoli e dei 
mulini a vento ... si imparava come entrare con qualche disinvoltura pratica 
nella ‘vita contemporanea’e nella ‘tradizione moderna’, risolvendo senza sforzi 
apparenti i problemi piu ardui della societa civile, senza buttar via niente della 
Grande Tradizione, e dando per accettate e anzi scontate per sempre tutte le 
grandie piccole liberta dell’uomo.” (TCI 1) L’Olanda sarebbe il luogo, utopico 
davvero, dove tutti, ‘4/11 grandi problemi del mondo moderno sono stati risolti: 
quelli della societa civile, quelli relativi alla conservazione della tradizione e 
dell’introduzione della modernita, quelli posti dalla preservazione delle liberta. 
Il segreto olandese é di aver risolto la quadratura del cerchio. Alla visione 
frammentaria, catalogante e contabilizzante del viaggiatore non-arbasiniano si 
sostituisce la percezione integrativa di chi vede il mondo e il frammento di 
mondo visitato nella sua esemplarita rispetto a una visione globale. L’attenzio- 
ne del viaggiatore Arbasino é rivolta al fenomeno della cultura, in senso lato, 
e alle sue manifestazioni pit variegate. L’interesse particolare dell’Olanda ai 
suoi occhi nisulta dal fatto che il “fenomeno” olandese occupa nel diagramma 
culturale che l’autore é andato man mano tracciando una posizione del tutto 
unica, in cui, come visto, tutte le contraddizioni si risolvono. Modernita e 
tradizione entrano in conflitto dappertutto, tranne in Olanda. Liberta e 


388 WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 


umanesimo vengono dovunque travolti dal progresso, tranne in Olanda. 
L’Olanda é il vero paese delle meraviglie e delle “leggende sui bambini che 
chiudono i fori della diga coi loro ditini.”(T'CI 1). Una implicita dimensione 
fiabesca o favolosa costituisce certamente una delle maggiori novita portate 
dall’O/anda arbasiniana al discorso odeporico. Esiste dunque l’Olanda? Si, come 
punto d’eccezione, quasi magico, sul diagramma “culturale” di Arbasino. 
L’Olanda occupa nello spazio cartesiano di Arbasino la striscia lineare, noman’s 
/andimprobabile, con valori identici tra ascissa e ordinata, modernita e tradizio- 
ne, modernita e liberta, modernita e umanesimo. 

Il paragone sviluppato a lungo tra Venezia ed Amsterdam, presente solo 
in TCI, si svolge sotto tutti gli aspetti a vantaggio di questultima. “Brulicante 
di vita” (TCI 2), “piena d’animazione”, “con case [...] restaurate, abitate, 
sanissime [...] (che) zon stanno per crollare in canali che non puzzano” (ib.3), 
Amsterdam esibisce alle sue “tante finestre illuminate [...] interni chiari gremiti 
di piante e di lampade sull’acqua lucente dei canali” (2). L’altra “citta-sogno” 
invece accende “lampadine e tubi, fra la segatura e la plastica” mentre le 
“finestre sul Canal Grande (rimangono) sempre spente” (2). Allorché Amster- 
dam “trabocca di vita”, Venezia “viene attualmente ritenuta [...] una delle citta 
piu noiose d’Europa.” (6). La citta incantata settentrionale richiede all’altra 
estremita della scala retorica la distopia integrale, visibile soprattutto la notte: 
“un deserto di case morte, calli lugubri, muri fatiscenti, vicoli interi abitati solo 
da guardie notturne e da gatti [...] puzze (che) salgono [. ..] tedio insopportabi- 
le [...] orrore claustrofobico [...] facciate morte.” (6) E per concludere la loro 
traiettoria retorica, amplificando appunto le nspettive tendenze imposte, ognuna 
delle due parte in direzione opposta all’altra: ambedue costruite sull’acqua, 
Amsterdam continua ad “emergere dal Mare del Nord tempestoso”, mentre 
Venezia “sprofonda nel Mare Adriatico addormentato” (5). Profilo contrastivo 
di due citta o iperbole voluta per far esplodere retoricamente l’antitesi di base 
tra luogo di tutti gli incanti e “citta morta” fatta morire due volte? La lezione 
finale, in sede arbasiniana, é quella di una critica “alta” del “basso” turismo 
di massa, svolta lungo elaborate somiglianze e raffinati contrasti tra le due citta 
topiche. Alla fine, il luogo comune della “citta morta” si rinvigorisce alla luce 
dei “passaggi rapidi delle comitive” (7) per cui le “’citta morte’ muoiono anche 
cosi” (7) Alla stonatura della “plastica” e dei “tubi” viene contrapposto, nella 
metropoli illuminata del mitico Nord, “il prezioso tessuto urbano del Sei e 
Settecento, che trapassa insensibilmente nelle costruzioni del tardo Ottocento 
e del primo Novecento, stazioni e musei e teatri e alberghi vecchiotti, di una 
eleganza cosi civile e discreta che ‘quasi non si vede’: graziosa pasticceria color 
cioccolato e meringa, con vetrate e inferiate e piastrelle fra Art Nouveau e 
Mondrian, e fatte (per di piu) anche prima.” (3) Perfino il grande colpevole di 
tutti i mali, il Tempo, viene misteriosamente addomesticato e reso innocuo nei 
suoi effetti devastatori. Non pit edax e distruttore, bensi restauratore e 
salvifico, il Tempo stende su tutto il patrimonio architettonico la sua patina 


LA FALLACIA DELL’AUTENTICITA 389 


armonizzante. Tra un secolo e l’altro il Tempo costruisce nella “Venezia del 
Nord” invisibili passerelle eliminando urti stilistici o transizioni troppo brusche, 
per non dire sgraditissime stecche come quelle prodotte dalle “orchestrine” in 
— guarda caso— piazza San Marco mentre “suonano Arrivederci Roma”. Perfino 
Varia di Amsterdam — e qui il sospetto del lettore si muta in perplessita — € 
“brillante come in montagna” (3) il che spiega, naturalmente, il motivo per cui 
“Paeroporto di Schiphol non é quasi mai chiuso per nebbia”, mentre Marco Polo 
ecc. Ma la pasticceria “color cioccolato e meringa”, anello cremoso nella 
ininterrotta colata dei secoli, mette il lettore in mezzo all’altro paradigma mitico 
predisposto per accogliere Amsterdam: non solo luogo di tutte le meraviglie, 
ma anche paese di Cuccagna, dove, non solo “si vede un numero enorme di 
bambini”, i quali bambini sembrano, per l’appunto, “i bambini meglio nutriti 
del mondo: tutti, ma proprio tutti.” (5) E il paragone, provvisoriamente 
interrotto da mezza pagina, con la sciagurata sorella dell’Adriatico, sembra 
rimettersi in moto sotto una nuova spinta associativa: “si ricorda con qualche 
raccapriccio l’eta media che aumenta della popolazione che diminuisce in quelle 
desolate calli veneziane...” (5). La retorica dei contrasti e dell’amplificazione 
trascina quest’ultima verso profondita abissali. La “Venezia del Nord”, sulla 
scia del popolare luogo comune che la innalza, ha soppiantato una volta per 
tutte la sorella pid grande, dando luogo a una catastrofe culturale non insolita 
nella concezione di un Arbasino: “La fama festosa e anche un po’ equivoca di 
Amsterdam (somiglia) alla gaia celebrita galante della Venezia settecentesca 
ormai defunta.” (6) 

Volendo fare il punto su come O/anda si posiziona rispetto ai codici della 
letteratura di viaggio, le osservazioni fatte finora bastano a far capire che il 
luogo vero, corrispondente alle coordinate geografiche, si é allontanato notevol- 
mente dal punto focale del testo di Arbasino. Quel che assume sostanza e 
significato in queste righe é una speculazione attorno alla possibile esistenza 
di una societa ideale, utopica, la quale, avendo superato le contraddizioni che 
altrove rendono invivibile la transizione verso la modernita, costuisce, invece, 
una specie di moderno Eldorado. Questa speculazione ha trovato approdo 
sulle spiaggie dei Paesi bassi a livello di certi uoghi mitizzati che portano i nomi 
di Amsterdam, I’Aia, ...ed insieme formano il mito dell’Olanda: “Proprio 
quell’affannoso tormentone della ‘misura d’uomo’, tema capitale della nostra 
disordinata crescita e del nostro drammatico ingresso nella Modernita, appariva 
tisolto qui, da sempre, con sapientissima grazia.” (ICI 1) Il riferimento 
implicito é umanistico-rinascimentale dal momento che, non solo, la “misura 
d’uomo” é parametro di valutazione, che l’equilibrio raggiunto é classico e 
stabile “da sempre” e che il tutto bagna in una “sapientissima grazia”, sotto 
Peffetto, viene spontaneamente a dire, della sprezzatura castighionesca. Tutto, 
proprio /uéto é perfetto. Le citta hanno “ilare pulizia, spazi larghi, tanto verde, 
edilizia serena, interni accoglienti” (1) e il paesaggio é “nitidissimo, immacolato, 
dove si passa da una casa che é una vera casa a una campagna che € vera 


390 WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 


campagna.” (2). L’Olanda é il paese incontaminato delle essenze intatte, dove 
le cose corrispondono letteralmente alle loro definizioni adamantine. I] Paese 
di Cuccagna é, certamente, luogo dell’abbondanza e di tutte le delizie, ma anche 
della misura salubre e del pericolo saggiamente scansato, Eldorado economico 
ed ecologico. “Le immense industrie risultano produttive”, ma nel contempo 
“pressoché invisibili” (5) I “giganti delle materie plastiche e degli alimenti 
sintetici” non hanno impedito che l’olandese mangi “carni e uova e formaggi 
di qualita superba e in perfetta salute, senza trappole qualitative e formule equi- 
voche e dubbi sulle manipolazioni chimiche” (5). L’utopia economica della 
equa distribuzione delle ricchezze ha realizzato tutte le sue promesse: “si 
osserva in giro, questo livello altissimo della socialita olandese, questo benessere 
tradizionale, e del tutto egualitario [. ..]: non si vedono poveri, miseri, mendican- 
ti, catapecchie, s/ums.” (5) Ma, nello stesso tempo, lutopia economica si é 
realizzata di pari passo con un rispetto della privacy e l'egualitarismo non ha 
soppresso nessuna liberta in questo paradiso delle “gelose liberta individuali 
e di non-intrusione rigorosa dell’autorita politico-amministrativa nel ‘privato’ 
dell’individuo.” (6) La protesta stessa dei “simpaticissimi provos”'’ (21) prende 
volentieri la forma, sabato sera nella Leidse straat, di un balletto tra polizia e 
“capelloni esuberanti” che “s’accapighano”, facendo venire in mente al lettore 
scene di West Side Story pit che di violenza urbana. Anzi, furono questi 
“beatleggianti in giubbotto bianco” (OO 93) “i primi giovani europei a opporsi 
con decisa ironia collettiva alle violenze anti-pacifiste della polizia, inventando 
una nuova militanza serena e consapevole, molto piu serza del vecchio ‘engage- 
ment’ piu o meno finto...”(21). Contestazione e consenso sociale hanno 
adottato, nella “post-modernita ... ‘avanzata”” (20) rituali di comportamento 
analoghi, per cui “proprio la strada di Amsterdam, esplosiva di inventivita e 
creativita giovanile nelle capigliature e negli abbigliamenti, veniva confutando 
con girandole di ‘segnali’ e ‘sintomi’ liberatori vagoni interi di ipotesi e profezie 
seriose e banali su una standardizzazione oppressiva li appiattata nella Contem- 
poraneita.” (20). L’approccio arbasiniano non sfugge all’ideologia, pur confutan- 
done la presenza a livello della nordica Citta del Sole. L’ideologia post-ideologi- 
ca é effettivamente un al di la dell’ideologia che permette alle societa avanzate 
di estendere “con esilarante entusiasmo, il margine di liberta e di rispetto per 
i ‘valori’ pit dignitosi dell’umanesimo” (20) L’Olanda di Arbasino é il luogo 
mitico dove tutte le contraddizioni spariscono, tappa esilarante verso la 
perfezione in questo mondo, se non la perfezione in atto, la Metropolis di Lang 
corretta lungo le linee dell’Arcadia. I] viaggio di Arbasino si svolge in gran 
parte @ huis clos. Si tratta di un viaggio nel testo, esplorazione di un territorio 
immaginario al quale aggiungere, in occasione di tale versione riveduta, una 
perfezione in pit osservata mentalmente o togliere qualche stonatura. La 
censura esercitata rispetto al modello canonico é la miglior prova dell’esistenza 


15. Le provolone (OO 92), apparse accanto ai proves in Offoff furono eliminate nelle versioni 
successive. 


LA FALLACIA DELL’ AUTENTICITA 391 


di questo. II “colonialismo colpevole” (OO 83) sparisce nelle versioni successi- 
ve, come viene abbandonato il paragone con la Svizzera che senza risorse 
coloniali raggiunge livelli simili di civilta e di benessere, come la si descriveva 
prima. Espulse anche dalla versione canonica del mito — TCI — le “bionde 
obese e maialesche — nastrino rosa al collo, giarrettiera viola al cosciotto — per 
il rapido tripudio del marinaio” (OO 90), senz’altro ritenute disturbanti per 
Pequilibrio raggiunto tra gaudio e misura. L’Olanda di Arbasino corrisponde 
strutturalmente all’Africa “da cartolina” percepita dall’occidente colonialista: 
a una visione integrale si sostituisce l’immagine selettiva e corretta di un’A frica 
“eterna” come quella altrettanto espurgata di una Olanda mitica. L’operazione 
nei due casi é la messa in scena. Esattamente come sulla scena africana 
s’istallano solo palme, cieli immensi e cascate nella foresta, su quella olandese 
vengono fatte muovere figurine di cartapesta. Cosi come, in certi paesi 
“esotici”, intere famiglie locali—o importate - si esibiscono per distrarre i turisti 
di passaggio con cerimonie, balli, riti “autentici”, “messi in scena” da “operatori 
turistici” per rappresentare qualcosa che non c’é, cosi lo stesso Arbasino fa 
vivere da vero i suoi protagonisti anonimi sulla scena mitica. Il seatro delle 
meravighe viene recitato in mezzo alla strada: “folle scampanellanti e sorridenti 
(anche un po’ da cartolina) in bicicletta fuori dalle fabbriche e dagli uffici, 
obbedendo agli ‘stop’ sui cartelli di latta pieghevole dei vigili e delle vigilesse 
in mezzo alla strada, agli incroci” (TCI 8). Scene da teatrino meccanico o da 
musical dove l’artificio viene sentito dal viaggiatore-scrittore stesso poiché, 
appunto, “un po’ da cartolina”. Si é fatta strada nella consapevolezza di chi 
verga sifatte riflessioni che il lato “finzione” nello spettacolo assorbito non é 
irrilevante. Esistono davvero questi “tram immacolati e sonanti con trilli 
argentini” (9), questi “numerosissimi e minuscoli negozietti, baretti, alberghettt” 
(8), queste “carrozze tipo Cenerentola, con doppio cavallo impennacchiato” 
(10) e “foreste altissime da Bella Addormentata” e le “radure per gli animaletti 
di Walt Disney” e quel “chiaroscuro diffuso ancor pid luminoso che nei quadri 
piu celebri’” (10)? Viene il sospetto che alla costruzione del mito politico-sociale 
sia stata aggiunta un paesaggio e uno scenario con qualche ritocco di pennello. 
In effetti: “si riconosce quest’aria e questa luce fra le case nitidissime bianche 
e brune, e fra i prati e i parchi ei boschi, perfino nei crepuscoli umidi e rossicci, 
cosi come la si ritrova intatta in ogni paesaggio fiammingo anche nei corridoi 
piu bui e dimenticati delle pinacoteche, a Monaco oa Vienna” (10). L’aria tira 
dai quadri e quadretti alla campagna e vice versa, e anche la luce passa 
indiminuita fra pittura e cielo basso. Talvolta si esita se quello che si “vede” 
appartiene alla rappresentazione pittorica o alla realta: “E la sera, 1 quadretti 
domestici: attraverso le finestre larghe senza tende né persiane, al di la delle 
facciate brune e bianche di mattonie di stucco — come nella pittura —le famiglie 
sedute nell’interminabile dopocena, fra i paralumi chiari e le piante in vaso e 
le piante pendule e tanti quadrie tanti libri, leggendo giornali con molte pagine, 
e facendo magari un po’ di musica assieme, interrompendosi per un té notturno 


392 WALTER GEERTS E KIRSTEN WOLFS 


coi biscottini secchi (9). Il “quadretto” puo essere ammirato nel Rijksmuseum 
oO visto in una delle case vicine. La distanza tra ricostruzione mitica e realta 
si affievolisce a misura che anche le vedute si spostano impercettibilmente dalla 
finestra alla tela dipinta. Finzione e realta vengono contagiate, ciascuna, l’una 
dalle condizioni dell’altra. Arbasino ha afferrato benissimo questo contagio 
continuo tra due livelli di esistenza, reale e fittizia, in un contesto dove spesso 
il paesaggio stesso non viene offerto dalla natura, ma deve essere, perfino il 
paesaggio, “tutto inventato” (3). E li si presenta di nuovo, paradossalmente, 
la pittura come grande modello. In un paesaggio da modellare e dove niente 
si puo imitare perché niente esiste, la pittura di paesaggio offre i modelli perfetti 
per una “creazione del mondo” che per essere umana e non divina, non é per 
tanto meno perfetta. La nature imite Vart. Qui si puo dire che la “natura” é arte. 
L’Olanda é il paese edenico per eccellenza non perché Dio ha permesso agli 
olandesi di stabilirsi direttamente nel giardino del paradiso, ma perché gli 
olandesi Phanno costruito cosi. L’ultimo e pit bello paradosso arbasiniano é 
la trovata di una societa creatrice del proprio mondo e del proprio paesagpio, 
“tutto inventato” in effetti: “ecco assolutamente collettiva ’organizzazione 
esemplare e responsabile di una Natura ‘civile’ che prima non esisteva: il 
territorio continuamente conquistato e riconquistato, ordinato e riordinato, 
organizzato e difeso dalle generazioni successive, e sempre con calcoli rigorosi, 
programmi seri, progettazioni di po/der e dighe e canali in tempi brevi e medi 
e lunghi e lunghissim1; ed economia politica di buon senso; e rispetto spontaneo 
della convivenza; e amore sincero per l’agricoltura, e per il giardinaggio, e per 
il panorama; gusto nativo e civico e di tutti per un “ambiente” fatto di superfi- 
ci, di luce, e di ordine. [...] Acque, alberi, prati, come disposti dall’ingegnere e 
dall’ortolano e dal designer insieme, in questi vastissimi spazi luminosie sereni, 
come inventati dalla grande pittura olandese di paesaggio” (4-5). Ci si poteva 
illudere che la ricostruzione mitica di un’Olanda “eterna” non andasse oltre 
le osservazioni scontate di ordine, precisione, funzionalita conviviale, portando 
il saggio odeporico a un livello interessante ma non eccezionale. Ingannando 
tale aspettativa Arbasino ha scritto la genes: dell’Olanda. 


Universitet Antwerpen 
Opete citate 


Clerici, Luca. I/ viaggiatore meravighato. Italiani in Italia (1714-1996). Milano: il Saggiatore, 1999. 

De Pascale, Gaia. Scrittori in viaggio. Narvatori e poeti italiani del Novecento in giro per tl mondo. Torino, 
Bollati Boringhieri, 2001. 

Duncan, James e Derek Gregory (a cura di), Writes of Passage. Reading Travel Writing. London: 
Routledge, 1999. 

Monga, Luigi, “Travel and Travel Writing”, L ‘odeporica/ Hodoeporics: On Travel Literature, AdT 14 
(1996): 7-54. 

Pratt, Mary Louise, Imperial Eyes. Travel writing and Transculturation. New Y ork: Routledge, 1992. 


DAVIDE PAPOTTI 





Attivita odeporica ed impulso scrittorio: 
la prospettiva geografica sulla relazione di 


viaggio 


La letteratura di viaggio come punto di incontro fra geografia e 
letteratura 


Si possono aprire le pagine di una relazione di viaggio con differenti tagli di 
indagine, seguendo interessi parziali e conservando una pit o meno espli- 
cita predilezione per gli elementi che maggiormente si avvicinano alla sen- 
sibilita investigativa di una materia. Nella prospettiva costituzionalmente 
interdisciplinare dello studio della letteratura di viaggio l’apporto specifico 
della geografia potrebbe essere individuato ragionevolmente nella particola- 
te attenzione rivolta alla componente spaziale. La letteratura di viaggio é 
genere intrinsecamente comparativo e cosmopolita, in quanto nasce e trova 
la sua ratson d’étre nel confronto con umn/alterita, geografica e culturale insie- 
me, correlata allo spostamento sul terreno. II genere si evolve, in maniera 
differenziata e policroma, avvicinandosi e sovrapponendosi ad una delle 
finalita primarie della geografia, quella, gia inscritta nell’etimologia del 
nome stesso della materia, dello “scrivere,” e descrivere, la terra (Dematteis 
1985). Accostare dunque all’analisi letteraria lapporto concettuale e meto- 
dologico di chi per tradizione di studi si occupa della descrizione del 
territorio e delle molteplici immagini che si possono creare intorno ad una 
determinata porzione territoriale sembra essere un promettente campo di 
incontro interdisciplinare. 


Evoluzioni del rapporto fra geografia e letteratura 


Nellultimo ventennio, sulla spinta delle esperienze della scuola geografica 
anglosassone e di quella francese, anche in ambito italiano sono stati av- 
viati, all’interno del sempre mobile paradigma epistemologico della disct- 
plina, studi sul rapporto fra sapere geografico e letteratura, sviluppatisi an- 
che in relazione a quella scuola di pensiero che afferisce, con notevole vita- 
lita a partire proprio dai primi anni Ottanta, al campo della geografia della 
percezione (Geipel, Cesa Bianchi ef a/. 1980; Perussia 1980; Bianchi, Pe- 
russia, Rossi 1987). Questo filone della geografia cerca di indagare, cata- 


Annali dTtalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


394 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


logare, comprendere le mille immagini personali che, nel loro insieme, com- 
pongono l’identita di un territorio. L’individualita percettiva degli autori si 
esprime in un documento scritto che testimonia una delle possibili “letture” 
del territorio (Bianchi 1985). Abbandonando ogni pretesa di leggere 1 testi 
narrativi come un livello “privilegiato” in termini di qualita percettiva ed 
espressiva, la testimonianza letteraria rimane nondimeno un esempio di 
costruzione di un’immagine spaziale (Scaramellini, 1985). 

AlVinterno del rapporto fra geografia e letteraratura, il campo dell’ode- 
porica, in ambito italiano, non manca di preoci esempi (cfr. per esempio 
Cassuto 1921). Ogni testo costruisce, implicitamente o esplicitamente, una 
sua “cosmologia” e una sua concezione dello spazio. La letteratura di viag- 
gio, in particolar modo, é sempre stata osservata come un “luogo” letterario 
di alto interesse, proprio per l’inevitabile concentrazione di “pensiero” spa- 
ziale in esso contenuta (Lucchesi, 1995). 

Nella messa a fuoco delle possibili interazioni fra la descrizione 
“ufficiale” di un territorio (quella dei testi scientifici, det resoconti statistict, 
delle inchieste parlamentari, delle ricerche commissionate) e le plurime im- 
magini “parziali” ricavabili dalle testimonianze personali degli autori si gio- 
ca la possibilita di aggiungere una “quarta dimensione” alla volumetria pae- 
saggistica e territoriale (Luzzana Caraci 1997). Il potere illustrativo ed il 
repertorio iconografico-verbale forniti dagli scrittori sono forse meno rigidi 
e meno “scientifici” delle indagini della geografia tradizionale, meno palpa- 
bili e cartografabili sul territorio, ma sembrano nondimeno diventare valori 
immateriali sempre piu dinamici (e con risvolti perfino operativi) nella di- 
scussione progettuale e propriamente “politica” sul territorio (Copeta 
1983). 

Nell’analisi degli incontri interdisciplinari fra geografia e letteratura di 
viaggio dividerei i possibili apporti della prima in due sottogruppi. II primo 
lo chiamerei degli “integratori.” Esso contiene sollecitazioni culturali, che, 
in base agli specifici interessi disciplinari della materia, possono arricchire 
linterpretazione dei testi odeporici, senza pero allontanarsi troppo dalla 
prospettiva piu specificamente “letteraria” di analisi e lettura dei testi. Un 
secondo gruppo, che definirei degli “estensori,” apre invece alcune pro- 
spettive complementari di ricerca che possono proporsi come ottiche alme- 
no parzialmente “inedite” agli occhi dello studioso odeporico di formazio- 
ne letteraria. Le due categorie non sono separate da paratie stagne, e gli 
scambi di funzione sono insieme frequenti ed auspicabili. Giovera tuttavia 
per il procedere del discorso tenere suddivise due funzioni diverse che la 
geografia pud sviluppare a favore degli studi di odeporica: quella di un 
approfondimento “verticale”di indagine e quella di un allargamento “oriz- 
zontale” delle prospettive di ricerca. 


ATTIVITA ODEPORICA ED IMPULSO SCRITTORIO 395 
Gli integratori geografici 


1. I/ testo letterario come documento di geografta storica 
La letteratura di viaggio, grazie alla congenita dimensione storica delle 
esperienze di itineranza, é, nella tradizione occidentale moderna, quasi sem- 
pte viaggio “sulle orme di.” Essa pertanto acquista, con lo stratificarsi delle 
voci, il valore di testimonianza documentaria (Botta 1989). Uno degli 
interessi primari della geografia storica é proprio quello della ricostruzione, 
il pid possibile completa e precisa, delle realta paesaggistiche del passato. La 
descrizione narrativa di un territorio come si presentava cento, duecento, o 
cinquecento anni fa, pure se parziale e filtrata dalle motivazioni e specifici 
interessi personali, rappresenta un’opportunita, per il geografo storico, di 
“agoiungere un sonoro” alle ricostruzioni ambientali basate su analisi sedi- 
mentarie, geologiche, botaniche, dei tipi di abitazione, ecc. Il problema della 
ricostruzione dei paesaggi storici risiede nella difficolta di ricostruire, nella 
sua interezza percettiva e nella complessita delle dinamiche che esso mette 
in gioco, uno scenario che, nelle sue fattezze identitarie primarie, é sto- 
ticamente scomparso (Boncompagni 1995). 

Paesaggio é concetto relativamente chiaro e condiviso nella prassi d’uso 
ma pit. sfuggente ed inafferrabile nella definizione teorica (Besse 2000). 
Chiamati a menzionare un esempio di paesaggio, tutti potrebbero recu- 
perare nella mente un pit o meno sfuocato esempio prototipico (il pae- 
saggio della propria zona di residenza, quello associato al periodo di 
vacanze, quello dell’ultimo viaggio compiuto, ecc.), ma assai piu 
difficilmente — e le voluminose tracce del dibattito teorico fra geografi lo te- 
stimoniano chiaramente (Zerbi 1993 e 1994) — si puo arrivare ad una defi- 
nizione teorica sintetica completa e versatile nell’uso. Una delle carat- 
teristiche che concordemente definiscono il concetto di paesaggio risiede 
nel suo essere concreto ed immediatamente percepibile in un insieme. Un 
paesaggio esiste, e svolge le sue volumetrie ed 1 suoi equilibri compositivi 
ed operazionali, davanti ai nostri occhi di spettatori. Esso non é€ pero una 
realta statica, ma piuttosto il frutto di un costante lavoro di aggiornamento 
e di manutenzione. Un paesaggio svolge la sua lotta contro il tempo — e 
fisiologicamente lega la sua sopravvivenza — ad una perenne capacita di 
adattamento alle sollecitazioni antropiche e naturali che spingono verso 
Pevoluzione e verso il riassestamento continuo delle caratteristiche di 
equilibrio. Attingere ad un’immagine descrittiva, quale quella contenuta, a 
diversi livelli e gradienti, nelle pagine della letteratura di viaggio, costituisce 
un non trascurabile potenziale documentario per la ricostruzione dei pae- 
sagei come si presentavano nel passato. Come avviene in una sorta di 


396 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


“album di famiglia” territoriale, con una serie di scatti che, nella loro se- 
quenza, simulano per campionatura un’evoluzione dinamica. 


2. I/ paesaggio come testimonianza storica di una senstbilita spaziale 

Non si tratta, pero, solo di una questione ricostruttiva del “com’era una 
volta” (campo che, tra l’altro, sta diventando sempre pit attuale negli inter- 
venti urbanistici di restauro dei centri storici, dei parchi, ecc.; cfr. Algreen- 
Ussing 2000), ma anche della rievocazione storica di una sensibilita 
paesaggistica. Ogni epoca non incarna solamente un determinato status di 
organizzazione del territorio, ma anche un diverso modo di rapportarsi con 
esso, di percepirne i caratteri, di assegnargli valori qualitativi e attributi di 
tichiamo o di repulsione. I] modo di descrivere e giudicare un quadro pae- 
sistico, anche qualora questo rimanesse sostanzialmente immutato — 0 al- 
meno coerente con le sue strutture di base, con i suoi caratteri peculiari e n- 
conoscibili — si evolve nel tempo, e cid che poteva apparire come un sem- 
plice “ostacolo spaziale” potra successivamente assumere valori estetici 
(Porteous — 1996 — si sofferma sulla definizione delle “estetiche ambien- 
tali”) o di fruizione che ne rinnovino e riqualifichino l’immagine, e vicever- 
sa. L’esempio del fiume Po nelle pagine di descrizione letteraria del Grand 
Tour € al proposito significativo. Nella letteratura pre-romantica, esso com- 
pare quasi esclusivamente in veloci notazioni e in connotazioni negative di 
fastidio (in quanto ostacolo, barriera fiscale, luogo pericoloso, landa 
desolata, area infestata da insetti, ecc.). Il viaggiatore dell’epoca non “vede” 
ancora l’elemento suggestivo che verra valorizzato solo da una successiva 
sensibilita paesaggistica che “inventera” il fascino delle acque.! 

Le diverse possibilita di lettura di un territorio non sono soltanto 
relative ad una diversa predisposizione percettiva, ma sono influenzate da 
un bagaglio di aspettative preventivo, dal processo mentale creazione di 
immagini ambientali che preesistono al paesaggio stesso. A sua volta, 
questa capacita di mettere a fuoco una iconografia preliminare é correlata al 
gradiente di circolazione delle immagini in una societa, e alla circolazione 
che esse ottengono all’interno dei meccanismi di diffusione culturale (Sca- 
ramellini 1993). 

Il valore di sorpresa e di rinnovamento di un’esperienza di viaggio si 
inscrive nel delicato rapporto fra “assimilazione” ed “adattamento,” os- 
servato, attraverso l’ottica geografica, nella sua componente prettamente 
spaziale. Il rapporto é dunque quello fra la “pesantezza” e la consistenza 
del bagaglio culturale personale che il viaggiatore porta con sé, e quindi fra 
’“impermeabilita” agli spazi — la mancanza di curiosita nei confront del- 


1. Su altri fronti geografici, ma in prospettiva simile di valorizzazione dell'elemento acqueo, 
Panalisi dell’affermazione turistica,, anzi della vera e propria “invenzione,” del mare in 
Corbin 1990. 


ATTIVITA ODEPORICA ED IMPULSO SCRITTORIO 397 


Vesperienza di viaggio dal vivo — da una parte e, dall’altra, l’aperta disponi- 
bilita a mettersi in gioco, ad immergersi nelle specificita — anche se impre- 
vedibili, e perfino difficilmente comprensibili — del territorio nel quale si 
viaggia. Espressione della prima attitudine é il viaggiatore che si muove alla 
ricerca delle conferme di cid che gia sa, di cid che ha gia appreso, delle sue 
aspettative al riguardo. Incarnazione della seconda é colui che viaggia in 
una posizione di “ascolto” del territorio stesso. I] primo é quello che predi- 
lige le riposte, meglio se preesistenti, ed il secondo é quello che non teme le 
domande, anche qualora rimangano alla fin fine sostanzialmente inevase 
(Scaramellini 1980b). 

In questo senso l’approccio della geografia alla letteratura di viaggio 
porta con sé uno sguardo costituzionalmente comparativo, in quanto si 
muove alla ricerca di un continuo confronto fra il portato culturale col- 
lettivo e la specificita individuale, fra ’immagine spaziale condivisa e quella 
“idiolettica” strutturata in un linguaggio di reportage strettamente personale 
(Corna Pellegrini, Demetrio 1997). Non rifiuta a priori l’analisi monografica 
(su un autore o anche su un solo testo, come nel caso di Lucchesi 1987), 
ma predilige la presenza di punti di fuga in direzione comparativa, sia 
orizzontale (autori del medesimo periodo, come nel caso di Milanesi 1980; 
Scaramellini 1980a) che verticale (autori succedutisi l’un Valtro, come nel 
caso di Galluccio 1997), sia temporale (stessi elementi territoriali in diversi 
contesti) che geografica (simili situazioni antropiche, meteorologiche, pae- 
saggistiche, evocate a paragone di quelle nelle quali si sta viaggiando, come 
in alcuni dei casi analizzati da Rota 1992). 


3. Paesaggto consolidato e paesaggto innovativo 

Il problema della contestualizzazione storica della sensibilita paesaggistica é 
da leggersi in prospettiva geografica nella ricostruzione di una sensibilita 
spaziale condivisa. Una delle direzioni di indagine che la geografia, con 1 
suoi strumenti concettuali e di ricerca, puo offrire agli studi di odeporica 
tisiede proprio nella verifica dell’originalita del contributo di uno specifico 
scrittore. Nel determinare quale sia, in una scrittura di viaggio, il gradiente 
di sensibilita spaziale ereditato e condiviso da un’intera societa (nel senso 
delineato, ad esempio, dagli studi di Simon Schama — 1997 — per la societa 
olandese del XVII secolo), e quale sia la componente specificamente per- 
sonale. Nell’analisi di un testo di letteratura di viaggio, si tratta di stabilire 
se la voce di un autore suoni intonata al coro percettivo della spazialita pre- 
valente nella comunita oppure si stagli come un a solo dotato di notevole 
capacita innovativa e provocatoria. 

Insieme all’attaccamento territoriale e al radicamento dell’abitante, anche 
Papprezzamento del viaggiatore rientra in quella che Yi-Fu Tuan (1974) 


398 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


definisce la topofilia, ’amore per 1 luoghi. La topofilia non é attitudine fer- 
ma nel tempo, ma muta con l’evolvere della psicologia sociale. Facile 
Pesempio significativo di cosa un uomo colto, nel senso rinascimentale di 
studioso di diverse e disperse discipline, potesse trarre da un’osservazione 
paesaggistica: non solo ragionamenti estetici o riflessioni storiche, ma anche 
appunti scientifici e teorie tecniche (Camporesi, 1992). Si pensi a quel tipo 
di osservazione globale del paesaggio, che va dagli aspetti panoramici a 
quelli botanici, da quelli geologici a quelli zoologici, che costituisce un 
continuum aggregante in molte scritture odeporiche fra il XVI ed il XIX 
secolo. Basta leggere alcune pagine del Wzaggto in Itaha di Goethe per capire 
quanto l’aspetto scientifico sia scomparso dal panorama narrativo nel corso 
degli ultimi due secoli (Balmas 1992). 

La contestualizzazione della sensibilita spaziale e paesaggistica di una 
societa vale anche in direzione interdisciplinare. I] confronto comparativo 
volto ad individuare i motivi ricorrenti e le caratteristiche maggiormente 
affermate e condivise dell’analisi paesaggistica non é solamente da farsi con 
la coeva cultura letteraria, in una sorta di “spoglio delle occorrenze,” ma 
anche in prospettiva interdisciplinare con la cultura figurativa, artistica, 
musicale dello stesso periodo. In questa direzione si delineano possibili 
analisi sul fronte della descrizione spaziale, che vanno dal rilevamento della 
frequenza dei toponimi all’esame delle immagini paesaggistiche, dallo 
studio dell’eredita mitologica nella percezione ambientale al riconoscimento 
di prestiti di immagini e di lessico dalle contemporanee vulgate geografiche, 
in un’ottica parallela a quella delle ricerche effettuate da Paolo Cherchi sulla 
letteratura compilatoria ed enciclopedica del Cinquecento e del Seicento 
(1980; 1998; 1999). 

In ultimo, il campo di contestualizzazione é da estendersi, sulla scia 
delle sollecitazioni della geografia della percezione e della psicologia dello 
spazio, non solo alla componente culturale del dibattito sociale, ma anche 
alla comunanza psicologica di reazione e all’immaginario emozionale 
condiviso. Ad esempio il geografo americano Yi-Fu Tuan illustra, nel suo 
volume Landscape of Fear (1979), Yevoluzione storica della componente di 
paura associata alle manifestazioni paesaggistiche. Ricostruendo in un gran- 
de affresco sintetico le componenti territoriali ed ambientali che si sono 
succedute nel dizionario delle paure durante la storia dell’uomo, Tuan ci 
restituisce un illuminante racconto di come la percezione psicologica degli 
archetipi spaziali — la foresta, il monte, la profondita marina, ecc. — e dei 
concreti contesti ambientali vari a seconda delle zone geografiche e dei 
periodi storici. Un altro esempio di lavoro di questo tipo, stavolta in- 
centrato non su una categoria emozionale ma su un elemento del paesaggio, 
é la ricerca di Bruno Vecchio (1974) che, attraverso le fonti letterarie, rico- 


ATTIVITA ODEPORICA ED IMPULSO SCRITTORIO 399 


struisce l’immagine letteraria della foresta a cavallo fra Settecento e Otto- 
cento. 


4. Tematismi della sensibilita spaziale selettiva 

AlPinterno della sensibilita spaziale e percettiva di uno o piu autori é anche 
da indagare la diversa gerarchia che si instaura fra le differenti immagini 
incontrate durante l’esperienza di movimento. Ogni viaggiatore compila 
esplicitamente o inconsciamente, tramite le sue note di viaggio, una sorta di 
classifica di cid che lo ha maggiormente colpito. La selezione puo avvenire 
in senso categoriale (il paesaggio antropico in risalto rispetto a quello fisico, 
quello marino su quello montano, quello botanico su quello zoologico, 
quello degli ambienti interni su quello degli spazi esterni, per fare degli 
esempi) oppure in senso puntiforme su certe categorie ambiental: i fari, le 
cime delle montagne, i fiumi, i ponti, ecc. Quando l’attenzione di un autore 
si fa quasi maniacale, ed il dettaglio descrittivo degli oggetti prediletti 
assume di conseguuenza un consistente valore di testimonianza, lo scritto 
di resoconto di viaggio si illumina di un potenziale informativo pari a 
quello di un trattato tecnico. In questo senso lindagine geografica si 
avvicina agli esperimenti della microstoria, che si avvale di element 
documentari biografici per comporre il disegno pit dettagliato possibile di 
una vicenda e di una localita — di un “cosmo” per l’appunto, come indica il 
sottotitolo del celebre libro di Ginzburg, o meglio, forse di un microcosmo, 
secondo lindicazione degli esercizi di “viaggio nel vicino” di Magris, 1997 
— per poi poterlo estendere ad un pid vasto quadro ambientale (Cipolla 
1973, Ginzburg 1976). 


5. L’anahisi degh imprinting e delle pietre di paragone 

Accade talvolta che una particolare predilezione percettiva per un oggetto o 
per una componente del territorio si trasformi a poco a poco in uno 
strumento di giudizio e in un’immagine generale di comprensione del reale. 
Si puo definire questo valore di persistenza di un’immagine spaziale come 
“gradiente di inerzia,” che rileva e definisce quanto una particolare imma- 
gine paesaggistica rimanga impressa nella mente di un autore ed influenzi la 
percezione di tutto il resto. Essa puo aleggiare sulla narrazione come una 
sorta di chiave interpretativa di tutto cid che la circonda. Qualche volta, 
all’interno del resoconto odeporico, si individuano dei veri e propri leit- 
motiv che scandiscono pagina dopo pagina lo svolgersi del racconto di 
viaggio. Si fissano cioé delle immagini dominant, o almeno percepite come 
tali, che costruiscono una sorta di basso continuo musicale, siano esse rica- 
vate dalle esperienze formative nella terra di origine o acquisite durante le 
avventure di viaggio. E non obbligatoriamente queste immagini sono legate 


400 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


allo spazio fisico: esse possono coinvolgere gli scenari antropici (secondo la 
bella chiave interpretativa di “paesaggio come teatro” offerta da Eugenio 
Turri, 1998) che in esso si instaurano. Un’idea fissa, una preoccupazione, 
un’emozione possono influenzare in modo sensibile la percezione ambien- 
tale durante un’esperienza di viaggio (basti pensare agli scarti stilistici e 
tonali presenti in un diario di viaggio in concomitanza di episodi sfortunati 
quali una rapina, un disastro meteorologico, un naufragio, ecc.). 


6. Meteorologia odeporica 

AlPinterno dell’analisi dei tematismi contenutistici alcuni argomenti 
possono assurgere ad un rilievo che li rende degni di un’indipendente 
approfondimento. Lavoro di scavo che non rappresenta solo un “attra- 
versamento” per argomento, ma diventa a sua volta un’ottica di osser- 
vazione dello spazio, offrendo il pretesto e il punto di partenza per ulteriori 
riflessioni. Si pensi a titolo esemplificativo alla importanza e alla ricchezza 
delle riflessioni meteorologiche dei viaggiatori, non solo per la primaria 
importanza che le condizioni climatiche e i capricci delle stagioni avevano 
oggettivamente nella pratica itinerante a cavallo, in carrozza, per mare, in 
contesti tecnologici profondamente influenzabili dal “bollettino ai navi- 
ganti,” ma anche per le straordinarie opportunita che essi offrono per pa- 
rentesi stilistiche di virtuosismo retorico, per pause narrative di enfasi cro- 
matico-descrittiva, per la possibilita di sfoggiare metafore e similitudini, per 
le importanti informazioni che ci possono dare sull’atteggiamento mentale 
tenuto nei confronti dell’ambiente circostante. Mi sembra che la pratica di 
una sorta di “meteorologia odeporica” possa essere di notevole interesse 
per dimostrare che il fatidico “che tempo fa” non é solo — 0 almeno non 
sempre e€ necessariamente —un riempitivo verbale in assenza di migliori 
argomenti. 


7. IL “gradiente spaziale” 

Rimane da analizzare, fra questi fattori “complementari” offerti dalla disci- 
plina geografica, quello che logicamente ci si potrebbe aspettare come il 
primo e piu logico: quello dei livelli descrittivi dello spazio. Se ho lasciato 
questo elemnto per ultimo, non é a causa di un minor valore gerarchico, ma 
Piuttosto perché mi premeva cercare di sgomberare subito il campo, 
partendo con itinerari spero un po’ meno scontati, dall’equivoco che iden- 
tifica il “gradiente geografico” di un resoconto di viaggio con lo spazio — 
quantitativamente misurabile, in righe, paragrafi, pagine — riservato alla de- 
scrizione del territorio, e particolarmente degli scorci paesaggistici. Dimen- 
sione sicuramente di grande interesse per la geografia, ma piu come dato 
primario da elaborare, come tappa preliminare di partenza, che come 
traguardo da porsi; limitarsi ad essa ridurrebbe l’auspicata operazione 


ATTIVITA ODEPORICA ED IMPULSO SCRITTORIO 401 


interdisciplinare ad un semplice spoglio tematico delle occorrenze. In realta 
la complessita dell’immagine spaziale proposta da un testo va ben al di la 
del semplice dato descrittivo diretto. Anche all’interno di questa maggiore 
attenzione ai punti di piu rilevata ispirazione geografica di un autore, é 
maggiormente significativo il lavoro di interpretazione dei dati rispetto a 
quello di semplice compilazione. Si pensi solo alle promettenti indagini sul 
tapporto fra attenzione narrativa concessa al viaggio, cioé al momento di 
itineranza, e concentrazione del reportage intorno alla méta stessa, all’o- 
biettivo finale. L’analisi di questo rapporto ci riporta di nuovo al rapporto 
fra “adattamento” e “assimilazione,” cioé alla disponibilita da parte del 
viaggiatore-scrittore ad aderire al celebre motto del poeta Antonio Macha- 
do: “Caminante, no hay camino se hace camino el andar” (riportato in 
epigrafe al suo Viaggio in Itaka anche da uno dei piu smaliziati viaggiatori 
italiani contemporanei, Guido Ceronetti). 


Gli “estensori” geografici 

Accanto alle prospettive complementari fino ad ora osservate — quelle che 
abbiamo definito come “integratori” geografici a campi di indagine gia 
frequentati dalla critica odeporica, ma che potrebbero nondimeno giovarsi 
di una piu stretta collaborazione interdisciplinare — si individuano qui di 
seguito alcuni filoni di ricerca che, se non proprio “vergini,” possono 
nondimeno vantare un gradiente di novita maggiore, e contribuire cosi non 
solo ad un miglioramento qualitativo della profondita delle indagini, ma 
anche ad un allargamento prospettico degli orizzonti di analisi. 


1. Lo spazto come criterio ordinatore 

Una delle direzioni principali nella quale la geografia puo manifestare il suo 
apporto riguarda la possibilita (0 necessita) di catalogare la letteratura di 
viaggio (Castelnovi 1997). Al di la del facilmente riscontrabile sedimentarsi 
temporale, attraverso le epoche, dei documenti di viaggio, gli strumenti 
concettuali della geografia possono aprire qualche porta alternativa al 
primario criterio cronologico. Il criterio spaziale assunto come forma pri- 
maria di indagine porta all’integrazione del principio temporale di catalo- 
gazione ed illustrazione della letteratura di viaggio, ed auspica un rime- 
scolamento delle carte a favore dell’ottica geografica. Quella spaziale é d’al- 
tronde l’ottica adottata da tante ricerche di respiro locale, strutturate intorno 
alle descrizioni, succedutesi nel tempo ad opera di vari commentatori, di 
una precisa localita. Al di la di questo mero dato di appartenenza, in realta 
la disciplina geografica puo suggerire anche altri contesti di appartenenza e 
di “catalogazione” delle prose. Si possono dunque recuperare eredita na- 
zionali di provenienza (la differenza nella cultura nazionale degli autori che 


402 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


si riflette negli orientamenti delle loro percezioni spaziali) ed eredita regio- 
nali all’interno della stessa nazione (Cerreti 1997). 

L’accorpamento puo avvenire anche per ambiti di peregrinazione, stu- 
diando la ricorrenza e la tenuta di precisi itinerari depositatisi nella pratica 
odeporica di una determinata epoca e di una determinata nazione. La fre- 
quenza dei medesimi itinerari puo di nuovo far luce sulle “preferenze am- 
bientali” di una cultura, svelando le conseguenze geografiche degli orien- 
tamenti del gusto e della sensibilita. 


2. Regioni e confini 

Un’ottica “regionalizzante” di approccio alla letteratura odeporica si foca- 
lizza sul problema, di primario interesse per la geografia, della percezione 
dei confini identitari. Quando e dove un viaggiatore avverte degli “scarti” 
percettivi nel suo procedere, degli indizi che gli comunicano di essersi 
mosso attraverso un passaggio territoriale fra due entita diverse? La verifica 
della presenza e del ruolo dei confini nel racconto odeporico apre una 
finestra di indagine sul senso di identita correlato ad una nazione o ad una 
regione. Non si includono solamente in questa categoria i visibili confini 
politici facilmente riconosciuti e percepiti dal viaggiatore (quanto ruolo 
abbiano nel racconto di viaggio le descrizioni delle dogane e dei “riti di 
passaggio” delle frontiere, siano esse statali o regionali, é constatazione 
assodata della critica odeporica) ma anche i confini culturali ed immateriali 
che nondimeno proiiettano la loro influenza sull’organizzazione spaziale del 
territorio. I] discorso coinvolge anche la distinzione, consolidata fra i cultori 
della geografia politica, fra “nazione” e “stato,” con riferimento all’identita 
etnico-culturale delle aggregazioni umane (Anderson 1996). Esiste infatti, 
sottesa e contenuta alla pratica narrativa del resoconto di viaggio, una 
regionalizzazione personale dell’autore, che ordina e registra le proprie im- 
pressioni in un sistema di identificazione, attraverso rilevamento sensoriale 
e cognitivo, delle diverse caratteristiche delle differenti regioni che egli si 
trova ad attraversare. La registrazione, in fase di scrittura, delle zone grigie 
di ambiguita e di trapasso territoriale fornisce interessanti suggerimenti alla 
geografia, costituzionalmente interessata ai dislivelli e alle partizion1. 


3. Geografia del movimento 

Il tema del movimento richiama poi ad un rinnovato interesse, per i lettori 
animati da curiosita spiccatamente geografica, per le modalita di sposta- 
mento. Si possono allora cercare delle correlazioni fra 1 mezzi di sposta- 
mento adottati dai narratori-viaggiatori e la natura delle percezioni spaziali 
cosi come riportate nei loro scritti. E qui si apre una nuova possibilita di 
catalogazione, quale una possibile “odeporica equina,” “odeporica marina,” 
“odeporica ciclistica” e cosi via. Al di la di ogni pretesa deterministica, una 


ATTIVITA ODEPORICA ED IMPULSO SCRITTORIO 403 


riflessione, ancora in linea comparativa, sulle modalita di spostamento puo 
aiutare a contestualizzare e meglio comprendere certe osservazioni sullo 
spazio svolte nei testi, con uno sguardo attento alle affinita riscontrabili in 
chi si muove con lo stesso mezzo, e, al contrario, alle differenze presenti 
negli scritti di chi attraversa i medesimi spazi con modalita diverse. 


4. Geografia det senst 

Cid che spesso si sottovaluta, all’interno di quel predominio del visuale che 
ha contraddistinto il “pensiero del viaggio” nel suo strettissimo rapporto 
con la cultura figurativa, é il fatto che esistono paesaggi sensoriali alternati- 
vi, che spesso la scrittura registra fedelmente. I] viaggiatore ottocentesco, 
concentrato sulla componente estetica e panoramica del suo procedere, e 
Vincellofanato viaggiatore contemporaneo, protetto da filtri artificiali dal- 
lesposizione alle correnti sensoriali dei luoghi, fanno dimenticare come il 
racconto odeporico abbia alimentato, spesso con ricchezza inaspettata, la 
registrazione di un paesaggio sonoro (brillantemente studiato nella com- 
plessita delle sue manifestazioni da R. M. Schafer, 1985), di un paesaggio 
olfattivo, di un paesaggio tattile, di un paesaggio del gusto (secondo le 
indicazioni di Porteous, 1990). L’indagine di queste tipologie sensoriali e 
delle tracce che esse lasciano nel resoconto narrativo trebbe contribuire a 
restituire una dimensione “a tutto tondo” dell’immagine ambientale. 


5. I/ carico metaforico 

Il gradiente associativo é una caratteristica di primario interesse per il 
geografo, sia all’interno di un testo che nel confronto fra piu testi. Ogni 
autore, infatti, anche in relazione alle precedenti esperienze di viaggio, puo 
allestire una serie di similitudini o metafore geografiche di richiamo, che 
cerchino cioé di riprodurre meglio su pagina la realta ambientale di un 
luogo attraverso l’evocazione di altri scenari paesistici, presumibilmente piu 
accessibili all’immaginario collettivo condiviso. L’analisi di questo gradiente 
comparativo della scrittura di viaggio puo gettare luce sull’immaginario 
geogtafico di riferimento disponibile in una determinata epoca ed in 
determinato contesto culturale. Filtrato attraverso l’analisi degli elementi di 
un territorio che vengono considerati caratteristici e, per cosi dire, anto- 
nomastici, il processo associativo getta luce sui meccanismi di selezione 
percettiva della realta ambientale. Identificare delle somiglianze é un’azione 
che, anche in campo geografico, porta inevitabilmente con sé delle scale di 


2. Per uno studio dei meccanismi di “percezione accelerata” degli spazi indotti dal- 
Porganizzazione di una pratica turistica standardizzata, cfr. Bell, Lyall 2002. 


404 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


valori, che possono essere significative nello studio della sensibilita 
territoriale espressa da un’epoca o da uno specifico contesto culturale. 


6. La cartografia e Ja letteratura 

La scienza cartografica é strettamente connessa, storicamente, alla 
conoscenza geografica. La carta si propone come uno strumento di 
visualizzazione del livello di “alfabetizzazione cartografica” raggiunto da 
una determinata societa. Il viaggiatore é un utilizzatore di cartografia per 
eccellenza, fino ai nostri giorni (Bianchi, 1980). Non sempre e non 
necessariamente, tuttavia, tale prassi si riverbera nel documento odeporico. 
La presenza di cartografia nel prodotto editoriale (con cartine sia all’interno 
del testo che fuori testo) é un elemento di grande interesse per il geografo, 
non solo per il valore grafico-simbolico, ma anche come complemento alle 
analisi di storia della cartografia (Conley 1992, 1996). 

La presenza delle carte geografiche in un testo odeporico pud anche 
essere indiretta, cioé limitata a descrizioni interne al testo. Le apparizioni 
delle carte nelle narrazioni sono nondimeno di grande interesse per gli studi 
di cartografia e di geografia storica perché possono offrire un raro esempio 
di “readers” response” all’oggetto cartografico, e aprire finestre sul come e 
quando le carte venissero consultate, in che forma esse si presentassero al 
viaggiatore, cosa egli pensasse di queste, ecc. (Licini 1997), 


7. Geografia letteraria e geografia del turismo 
Lo studio della letteratura di viaggio incrocia, all’interno delle discipline 
geografiche, il campo disciplinare della geografa del turismo. La “patina let- 
teraria” € stata velocemente assorbita dai cataloghi turistici nel nutrito arse- 
nale di potenziali fattori di attrazione. Le immagini territoriali proposte da- 
gli operatori turistici nelle operazioni di marketing fanno pertanto sempre 
piu spesso riferimento alla tradizione letteraria che ha celebrato una certa 
regione o un determinato scenario paesaggistico. Correlata ad una conno- 
tazione preferenzialmente “elevata” e “nobile,” la dimensione letteraria si 
presta molto bene ad un utilizzo strumentale da parte degli operatori turisti- 
ci, e fornisce un ampio repertorio di “parole chiave” e di lessico decorativo 
e descrittivo. 

L’esperimento, avvenuto con il sostegno di fondi europei, di istituzione 
di una ventina di parchi letterari nel Mezzogiorno (Vavassori 2000), con- 
giuntamente alla azione ormai ventennale nel settore della Fondazione Nie- 
vo, ha in un certo senso “ufficializzato,” anche in contesto italiano, la con- 
sacrazione della letteratura come fonte di attrazione turistica (Nievo 1998 e 
2000). Lo studio di questo uso meta-letterario del patrimonio narrativo e 
poetico coinvolge il repertorio odeporico in un ruolo di primo piano. 


ATTIVITA ODEPORICA ED IMPULSO SCRITTORIO 405 


8. Geografia letteraria e senso di identita 

Il patrimonio identitario e di attaccamento ai luoghi contenuto o suggerito 
in letteratura non coinvolge solamente i potenziali visitatori ma finisce per 
avere ricadute (o anche influenze immediate e primarie) sulla popolazione 
residente. Il repertorio di letteratura puo assumere un ruolo importante 
nella nascita, nel consolidamento o nel rinnovamento di un senso di 
appartenenza territoriale. Anche in questo caso si tratta di una potenziale 
indagine meta-letteraria da effettuarsi sul campo, soprattutto in quegli 
“avamposti” — spesso un po’ isolati, come se fossero davvero situati su un 
fronte secondario e un po’ snobbato —della comunicazione fra letteratura e 
societa che sono le biblioteche locali. La verifica del ruolo giocato dalla 
letteratura odeporica nel pensiero e nei modi dell’abitare si inserisce nel 
filone geografico di studi sul radicamento territoriale e sulla formazione 
delle immagini mental1. 

L’esemplificazione condotta fin qui, a sua volta un breve “viaggio” nei 
possibili rapporti fra geografia e letteratura di viaggio, non mira certo ad 
essere esaustiva, ma semplicemente ad offrire una esemplificazione della 
ricchezza di strati in cui questo rapporto interdisciplinare puo prendere 
forma. Con arricchimento sicuramente reciproco. 


University of Chicago 


Riferimenti bibliografici 


Algreen-Ussing, Gregers (a cura di). Urban Space and Urban Conservation as an 
Aesthetic Problem: Lectures Presented at the International Conference in Rome, 23-26 
October 1997. Roma, “L’Erma” di Bretschneider, 2000. 

Anderson, Benedict R. Comunita immaginate: origini e diffusione det nazionalismi. Roma, 
Manifestolibri, 1996 (trad. it. di Imagined Communities. Reflections on the Origin and 
Spread of Nationalism. Londra, Verso, 1983). 

Balmas, Enea, “Il viaggio come strumento di conoscenza,” in Giacomo Cora 
Pellegrini, Elisa Bianchi (a cura di). Warieta delle geografie. Limiti e forza della 
disciplina. Milano, Cisalpino, 1992, pp. 157-161. 

Bell, Claudia e John Lyall. The Accelerated Sublime: Landscape, Tourism and Identity. 
Westport CT, Praeger, 2002. 

Besse, Jean-Marc. Voir /a terre: six essais sur le paysage et la géographie. Arles, Actes 
Sud, 2000. 

Bianchi, Elisa. “Spazi soggettivi in geografia. Esempi tratti dalla cartografia e dai 
resoconti di viaggio,” in Perussia 1980, pp. 143-188. 

— (a cura di). Geografie private. I resoconti di viaggio come lettura del territorio. Milano, 
Unicopli, 1985. 


406 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


Bianchi, Elisa, Felice Perussia, Mario F. Rossi (a cura di). Immagine soggettiva e 
ambiente. Problemi, applicazioni e strategie della ricerca. Milano, Unicophi, 1987. 

Boncompagni, Adriano. “Il concetto di viaggio e le relazioni di viaggio dell’eta 
moderma come fonti della geografia storica,” Rivista Geografica italiana, 102 
(1995): 145-151. 

Botta, Giorgio (a cura di). Cultura del viaggio. Ricostruzione storico-geografica del territorio. 
Milano, Unicophi, 1989. 

Camporesi, Piero. Le belle contrade. Nascita del paesaggio itakano. Milano, Garzant, 
1992. 

Cassuto, U. “Meshullan da Volterra e il suo viaggio in Palestina,” in Ati del? VIII 
Congresso Geografico Italiano. Firenze, Alinari, 1921. 

Castelnovi, Michele. “Appunti intorno alle tipologie dei viaggiatori e delle rela- 
zioni di viaggio,” Geotema, 8 (1997): 69-77. 

Ceronetti, Guido. Viaggio in Italia (1981-1983). Torino, Einaudi, 1983. 

Cerreti, Claudio. “Breve ragionamento intorno ai Sette Paradossi principali del 
viaggio,” Geotema, 8 (1997): 52-59. 

Cherchi, Paolo. Encaclopedismo e politica della riscrittura: Tommaso Garzoni. Pisa, Pacini, 
1980. 

—. Polimatia di riuso. Mezzo secolo di plagio (1539-1589). Roma, Bulzoni, 1998. 

— (acura di). Ricerche sulle selve rinascimentah. Ravenna, Longo, 1999. 

Cipolla, Carlo Maria. Cristofano and the Plague: A Study in the History of Public Health in 
the Age of Galileo. London, Collins, 1973. 

Conley, Tom. The Graphic Unconscaous in Early Modern French Writing. Cambridge, 
Cambnidge U P, 1992. 

—. The Self Made Map: Cartographic Writing in Early Modern France. Minneapolis, U 
of Minnesota P, 1996. 

Copeta Clara. “Il rapporto tra geografia e letteratura,’ Révista Geografica Itakana 
(1983): 445-470. 

Corbin, Alain. Le serritorie du vide. L’Occident et le désir du rivage (1750-1840). Paris, 
Flammarion, 1990. 

Coma Pellegrini, Giacomo, Duccio Demetrio. Viaggi e racconti di viaggio 
nell'esperienza di giovani e adulti. Milano, Librerie CUEM, 1997. 

Dematteis, Giuseppe. Le metafore della terra. La geografia umana fra mito e scenza. 
Feltrinelli, Milano 1985. 

Galluccio, Floriana. “I] viaggio e lo specchio. Alcune note sull’evoluzione del con- 
cetto di viaggio nella seconda meta del Novecento,” Geotema, 8 (1997): 60-68. 

Geipel, R., Cesa Bianchi M. et al. Ricerca geografica e percezione dell'ambiente. Milano, 
Unicopli, 1980. 

Ginzburg, Carlo. I/ formaggio e i vermi. Il cosmo di un mugnaio del Cinquecento. Torino, 
Einaudi, 1976. 

Licini, Patrizia. “Parlare della mappa. La carta geografica come palinsesto dell’arte 
del dire,” Geotema, 8 (1997): 13-43. 

Lucchesi, Flavio. “L’immagine dell’Australia in Italia: un resoconto di viaggio del 
1928,” in Bianchi, Perussia, Rossi, 1987, pp. 425-437. 

—— (a cura di). Lesperienza del viaggiare. Geografi e viaggiatori del XIX e XX secolo. 
Torino, Giappichelli, 1995. 


ATTIVITA ODEPORICA ED IMPULSO SCRITTORIO 407 


Luzzana Caraci, Ilaria. “Dall’esperienza del viaggio al sapere geografico,” Geotema, 
8 (1997): 3-12. 

Magris, Carlo. Microcosmi. Milano, Garzanti, 1997. 

Milanesi, Marica. “La percezione dell’India meridionale da parte dei viaggiatori 
europei del 500,” in Geipel, Cesa Bianchi et al. 1980, pp. 183-190. 

Nievo, Stanislao. Parchi letterari dell’Ottocento. Venezia, Marsilio, 1998. 

—. I parchi letterari del Novecento. Roma, Ricciardi & Associati, 2000. 

Perussia, Felice (a cura di). Immagini ambientah. Milano, Unicoph, ***. 

Porteous, Douglas J.. Landscapes of the Mind: Worlds of Sense and Metaphor. Toronto, 
U of Toronto P, 1990. 

—. Environmental Aesthetics: Ideas, Poktics and Planning. New York, Routledge, 1996. 

Rota, Maria Pia. Viaggiatori naturalisti in Liguria nel secolo dei lumi. Il problema della 
montagna. Genova, Universita degli Studi di Genova, Pubblicazioni 
dell’Istituto di Scienze Geografiche della Facolta di Magistero, XLVI, 1992. 

Scaramellini, Guglielmo (1980a). “Natura, uomo e societa in relazioni di viaggio 

del secolo XIX,” in Geipel, Cesa Bianchi et al., 1980, pp. 199-236. 

, (1980b). “Osservazioni soggettive e conoscenze geografiche: 1 giornali di 

viaggio nella Lombardia del XTX secolo,” in Perussia 1980, pp. 189-214. 

—. Testi di viaggio e geografia. Milano, Unicophi, 1985. 

—. La geografia dei viaggiatori. Raffigurazioni individual e immagini collettive nei resoconti 
di viaggio. Milano, Unicoph, 1993. 

Schafer, R. M. I/ paesaggio sonoro. Milano, Ricordi-Unicopli, 1985 (trad. it. di The 
Tuning of the World. New York, Knopf, 1977) 

Schama, Simon. Paesaggio e memoria. Milano, Mondadori, 1997 (trad. it di Landscape 
and Memory. New York, Alfred A. Knopf, 1995). 

Tuan, Yi-Fu. Topophilia: A Study of Environmental Perception, Attitudes and Values. 
Englewood Cliffs NJ, Prentice Hall, 1974. 

—. Landscapes of Fear. New York, Pantheon Books, 1979. 

Turri, Eugenio. I/ paesaggio come teatro. Dal territorto vissuto al territorio rappresentato, 
Venezia, Marsilio, 1998. 

Vavassori, Massimiliano. “Parchi letterari: fare impresa con la cultura,” Révista del 
Turismo, 1, 2000. 

Vecchio, Bruno. I/ bosco negh scrittori itahiani del Settecento e dell’eta napoleonica. Torino, 
Einaudi, 1974. 

Zerbi, Maria Chiara. Paesaggi della geografia. Torino, Giappichelli, 1993, 2? ediz. 

—— (acura di). I/ paesaggio tra ricerca e progetto. Torino, Giappichelli, 1994. 








VENTORVM ACCVRATA TABVLA 


== 


SECVNDVM VETEREM ET NOVA 


— 


CLATVRA. 


DISPOSITIONE AC NOMEN 





LUIGI MONGA 





Mapping the Journey / Translating the World ' 


cuarteta by Antonio Machado, one of the most engaging and terse 
comments on travel in modern poetry, underscores some of the crucial 
elements of travel writing. A journey is a physical displacement that 
involves doing, viewing and thinking, the most fundamental human activities. 


Al andar se hace camino 
y al volver la vista atras 
se ve la senda que nunca 
se ha de volver a pisar.” 


Making a journey, looking at the path, returning home, and, eventually, talking 
or writing about it are the gnoseological operations that are at the foundation 
of travel narrative. The journey is not just a sequence of footsteps never to be 
imprinted again, but an object for the traveler’s reflection. And writing one’s 
journey it is just an attempt to re-create what one cannot regain, as in the well- 
known line by Yeats: “I sing what was lost,” echoed by another famous line 
by Machado: “Yo canto lo que se pierde.” 

Almost half a century ago, Louis Marin stated that “le récit est un piége,”” 
acknowledging the intrinsic impossibility of attaining objectivity in any narrative 
of human events. It is a fact that, as soon as writers sit, pen in hand, in front 


of a blank page, the infinite possibilities of journeys the blank page offers 


1. Portions of this essay were read in 2002-2003 at the VI° Congreso internacional de 
camineria hispanica in Madrid; at the conference on “Travel and Translation in the Early 
Modern Period” at Jacksonville State University, Jacksonville, AL; and as a seminar at Trinity 
College, Dublin, and the Universita degli Studi di Catania. 

A slightly different version of this essay will appear in the proceedings of the symposium 
of the Irish Royal Academy that was held in Galway, Ireland in November 2002. 


2. Antonio Machado, “Proverbios y cantares,” CXXXVI, 29. 


3. Le Réat est un piége (Paris: Les Editions de Minuit, 1978). 





Annali d'Italianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


410 LUIGI MONGA 


transform them into literati, ready to reshape their story, to entertain and 
embellish the facts, losing track of what exactly has happened. As Marguerite 
de Navarre had emphasized four centuries before, most writings done by “gens 
de lettres” tend to favor “la beaulté de la rhethorique,” befuddling “la vérité 
de Vhistoire” (Heptaméron, Prologue). The elemental struggle of creative writing 
and the need to create a “narration héroisante” (as Réal Ouellet called it) have 
led writers to reshape the world in a totally personal manner. Should one then 
look at other modes of description as more intrinsically objective than writing? 
Could drawings, photographs, and maps be better examples of objectivity? 
The story of geographical displacements has been told through the ages 
in spoken and written words, alphabetical signs and sounds, conventions and 
signifiers that translate the experience of a physical reality for listeners and read- 
ers alike. Translating (from Latin, /ransferre‘) implies transposing something 
(words, ideas, images) from somewhere into somewhere else, not just moving 
sentences from one language into another, but also physical realities into verbal 
utterances, as in Octavio Paz’s expression: “aprender a hablar es aprender a 
traducir.”” This statement, naturally, covers any kind of utterance, from children’s 
cries of surprise to explorers’ attempts to explain the surrounding world to an 
audience which has never left home. A visitor from a far-away place, ignorant 
of the local language, needs the help of an interpreter to decipher sites, translate 
conversations, lead through labyrinthine situations. This intermediary, cicerone 
or dragoman, an ambiguous character in travel narrative, hated by the locals 
and suspicious to the traveler, is an essential facilitator who transfers notions 
and ideas from one culture to another. And travelers who return home become 
translators of some sort, mediators of a distant world for their listeners. 
Physical entities can thus be transferred into the realm of spoken or written 
words or shaped into images and maps. Like words in traditional narrative, 
the language of cartography follows the classical definition “aliquid stat pro 
aliquo.” As the drawing an object indicates the concrete object itself, mapping 
a geographical entity implies that cartographers and readers have agreed to accept 
a complex set of conventions. The result underscores a specific relationship 
of an image with reality and will be subjected to the historical context that has 
produced it, its author’s idiosyncrasies, prejudices, lies, and political agenda. 


4. In Romance languages, however, verbs like tradurre, traduire, traduar come from trans-ducere, 
that indicates the activity of conveying something across a body of water, and thus, 
metaphorically, from one language to another or from a reality to its verbal or graphic 
representation.. Etymologically, a metaphor (from the, Greek mefaphord) is also a form of 
transferring a descriptive term from one object to another, different but analogous. 


5. Octavio Paz. Traduccion: literatura y literalidad (Barcelona: Tusquets, 1981): 7. 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 411 


Maps have always been political tools,° documenting conquered territories or 
areas to be taken from enemies, spying on adversaries and their wealth, particularly 
during ithe igreat> .* -*° 

explorations of the 
New World.’ 

In contemporary 
maps the size of typo- 
graphic fonts indicates 
the status or size of a 
city, but early modern 
maps used other graph- 
ic symbols to signify to 
the reader the impor- 
tance of a city, whether 
it was walled and fort- 
fied or just a defense- 
less market town, hav- 
ing a cathedral or a Fig. 1. A detail of Sabaudiae Ducatus by Jean de Boens (1617) 
simple parish church. 

In some old maps, however, conventional symbols coexisted with visual images, 
as in this map of the well-traveled road from France to Italy through the mountains 
of Savoy between Chambéry and Turin. (Fig. 1] The main road of the Val di 
Susa follows the Dora Riparia from Bussoleno to Avigliana (Vi/ane), but a parallel 
valley is also shown, from Coazza to Trana, along with the sketches of the 
mountain ridges of Rocciamelone and Colle La Russa. While a cross distinguishes 
market towns from simple hamlets, the town of Avigliana is indicated here by 
a picture of its church and palaces; the cartographer was more interested in the 
visual impact of his images than the correct scale of his map. 

As transformations that aim at retaining many of the formal features of the original 





6. Speaking on the strategic importance of visual observation and maps, Machiavelli suggested 
that the ruler should learn the basic notions of geographic strategy: “ [...] e parte imparare la 
natura de’ siti e conoscere come surgono e monti, come imboccono le valle, come iacciono e 
piani, ed intendere la natura de’ fiumi e de’ paduli; e in questa porre grandissima cura” (Prinape, 
XIV). 


7. Returning to France after exploring the Mississippi Valley, Robert Cavelier de la Salle 
reported that this river emptied into the Gulf of Mexico near Matagorda Bay (now in Texas), 
“almost certainly falsifying its location to place it nearer the gold and silver of the Spanish 
colonies in order to increase the king’s interest in colonizing that area” (Vaughn L. Glasgow, 
ed., in The sun King: Louis XIV and the New World. New Orleans, LA: The Louisiana Museum 
Foundation, 1984: 318). Soon cartographers engraved maps based on La Salle’s account. 


412 LUIGI MONGA 


messages, translations cannot avoid losses and distortions, for all lexical and 
phonetic elements peculiar to the source may not be recreated in the target 
language. And, as far as pictures are concerned, rendering reality into images 
means constraining a three-dimensional reality into a two-dimensional image. 
More dramatically, any attempt 
to transfer and reducing a vast 
area of the globe onto a flat 
sheet cannot retain the curved 
status of the original. There- 
fore, distorted representations 
are normal in cartography. 
From Herodotus (“6psis,” 
sight) to Filippo Sassetti 
(‘“vedere, toccare e scrivere”) 
to contemporary travelers and 
photographers, the most imme- 
diate experience of travel is a 
visual one. Eyesight, the most 
privileged of the human senses, 
Fig. 2. “Das verfluchte Zweite Kiissen” (Goethe in Rome) was at the foundation of the 

Baconian and Galileian revolu- 
tions, superseding even verbal interaction, particularly when travelers to far-away 
regions were ignorant of local languages. Explorers of new worlds were fond 
of including engravings of native people and wild animals in their maps or - 
narratives® to complement their verbal descriptions, since any comprehension 
of the whole experience of a vastly different “otherness” is just a synecdochic 
impression that does only partial justice to reality. The value of visual support 
to travelers was never so great as in the age of the Grand Tour, when foreign 
visitors to Italy admired her monuments, purchased valuable artwork, and had 
their portraits taken by local painters. Panini,’ Piranesi, Bellotto, Canaletto, and 





8. Artists and scientists joined 18th-century expeditions to far away lands: Commerson 
embarked with Bougainville, Parkinson and Buchan with Captain Cook. Their function was 
to observe and record with graphic impartiality what would have been difficult to express 
verbally: flora, fauna, human customs. And painters documented the 1828 Champollion- 
Rosellini scientific mission to Egypt with a wealth of color drawings of hieroglyphs and 
frescoes as today’s photographers routinely do for all geographic expeditions. 


9. Giovanni Paolo Panini (1691-1765) produced numerous Roman “capricci,” combining in 
his landscapes disparate monuments in imaginary compositions. They were sold to Grand 
Tour travelers and provided them with lasting mementos of their visit. See Gervase Jackson- 
Stops, The Treasure Houses of Britain: Five Hundred Years of Private Patronage and Art Collecting 
(Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1985): 262-63. 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 413 


the Dutch-born Vanvitelli became household names among the Grand Tourists. 
Goethe, one 

of the most sensi- Franchreich 

tive visitors to the 
Peninsula and also 
an accomplished 
draftsman, was es- 
corted on his jour- 
ney (1786-1787) 
by a number of 
artists who drew 
sketches of his 
favorite sites. His 
vision of Italy is 
conveyed to us, 





stereoscopically, 
through his words Fig. 3. The same woodcut in Schedel’s Liber cronicarum (1493) 
and more than illustrated England and France 


3,000 drawings" 

that reveal his sharp power of observing (what Luigi Magnani calls “la disciplina 
del saper vedere,” in Femmel 16). There is a puzzling pen and ink drawing 
of Goethe, probably by Tischbein, showing the poet in his Roman apartment, 
arranging the pillows on his bed, muttering to himself “Das verfluchte zweite 
Kiissen” (“This damned second pillow”!) under the watchful eye of his cat and 
the reproductions of some Roman statues [Fig. 2]. The German words, coming 
out of the poet’s mouth just as in a modern cartoon, imply something that is 
we do not know from Goethe’s journal. Peering at Goethe in his bedroom, wearing 
a dressing gown and fluffing his extra pillow in frustration, we wonder about 
new facets of Goethe’s Roman experience. Sometimes, however, a sketch is 
just an idealized image, without any realistic input, as in this fifteenth-century 
woodcut of a city[Fig. 3]; its author, Hartman Schedel, used it in the Latin version 
of the Liber cronicarum (Nuremberg Chronick) under the caption “Angliae Provincia” 


10. Goethe’s albums of sketches and the drawings by his friends, Tischbein and Kniep, are 
indispensable companions to his Italienische Reise. See Gerhard Femmel’s Begleittext und Katalog 
zum Reprint von Goethes Reise-, Zerstreuungs- und Trosthiichlein (Leipzig: Insel, 1985), 2 vol., and 
Wolfgang von Oettingen’s Goethe und Tischbein (Weimar: Goethe Gesellschaft, 1910), the source 
of Fig. 2; see also Disegni di Goethe in Italia, a cura di G. Femmel, intr. di L. Magnani (Vicenza: 
Neri Pozza, 1977). Among dozens of foreign artists who visited Italy, Edward Lear (1812- 
1888), the English nonsense poet, produced splendid lithographs for his I//ustrated Journals of 
a Landscape Painter in Southern Calabria (London: Bentley, 1852), completing and documenting 
the narrative of his travels through southern Italy. 


414 LUIGI MONGA 


and in the German edition as “Frankreich.”" 

The image of a road as a geographic element that joins cities is closely tied 
to the accounts of a journey and 
brings abouta graphic conceptu- 
alization of an individual’s experi- 
ence of time and space. [Fig. 4] 
The stretch of the road from 
London to Dover and from Calais 
to Beauvais, with landmarks, topo- 
nyms, and daily stops, is both a 
description of a journey and a 
guide for travelers. Another 
striking example of this function 
is a sixth-century road atlas featur- 
ing distances between cities as well 
as overnight accommodations. 
We know it from a thirteenth- 
century copy that was once owned 
by Konrad Peutinger, a Renais- 
sance German scholar (hence 
called “Tabula Peutingeriana”) 
[Fig. 5]. This large stretch of 
parchment (6.74m by 34cm) 

Fig. 4. The road from London to Dover (4//) and from porttays the roads from the Ibe- 
Calais to Beauvais (rgh/) in Matthew Paris’s [tnerary rian Peninsula to the Far East, 
keedo23) stretched lengthwise, focusing on 
towns, inns and thermal springs, 

and unconcerned about seas and mountain ranges. 

While a drawing of a stretch of road is a simple undertaking, a description 
of the region beyond the road requires advanced calculations and can only be 
produced by experienced geographers analyzing complex data. “Geographia,” 
the bigger picture, began to be distinguished from “chorographia,” the detailed 
representation of the space, and is intuitive in this woodcut from Peter Apian’s 
Cosmographia (Fig. 6]. The realm of the chorographic microcosm is often enriched 
by details of imaginary scenes, sea monsters, and wild beasts to emphasize the 
dangers of a voyage or even to hide the cartographers’ ignorance, as Jonathan 





11. A grandiose canvas by Albrecht Altdorfer, the Battle of Alexander at Issos (1529, Miinchen, 
Alte Pinakothek), offers a rare aerial view of the Earth, evoking a geographer’s perception of 
a large section of our planet, including the curving of the horizon. 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 415 


Swift mockingly wrote.'* For often geographers confess their inability to fit 
their information on a map, “crowd|ing][...] part of the world which they do 
not know about, ad- 
ding notes in the 
margin to the effect 
that beyond this lies 
nothing but sandy 
deserts full of wild = ne Samer egaw pee EE 
beasts, unapproach- : 

able bogs, Scythian 
ice, or a frozen 
sea.”'> A curious 
model of Renais- 
sance cartography is 
the Iso/ario, an atlas 
of islands, based on “parceling” the world into small entities without any effort 
to determining their size or locating them on the globe (Lestringant 1991, 152)."* 
Islands are easily created by explorers and cartographers, given a self-sufficient 
status, viewed as enclosed in their own autonomy, allowed to take peculiar 
elements and to harbor utopias and dreams. A map in Benedetto Bordone’s 
Isolario of 1534 (fol. 70v) [Fig. 7] shows a large archipelago” consisting of three 
major islands and three smaller archipelagoes, all oriented along the major winds 
(Maestro, Greco, Garbino, and Scirocco). Two of these islands are described 
as gendered (Imaugla and Inebila, inhabited, respectively, by men and women, 


#4831 
oS 





Fig. 5. A detail of southwestern Gaule in the Tabula Peutingeriana 
(from the Dictionnaire d’archéologte chrétienne et de Liturgie) 


12. “So geographers, in Afric-maps, / With savage-pictures fill their gaps; / And o’er 
unhabitable downs /Place elephants for want of towns” (“On Poetry: A Rhapsody,” 1: 177). 


13. In John Dryden’s introduction of his translation of Plutarch’s Léfe of Theseus. 


14. Islands are also hard to locate, apparently shifting their position on a map, easily forgotten 
or subject to cartographers’ whims. Fra Mauro, a 15th-century Venetian mapmaker, giving up 
all efforts of drawing some newly-found islands in his mappamondo, wrote on it, in the general 
area of the sea southeast of China: “In questo mar oriental sono molte insule grande e famose, 
le quali non ho posto, per non haver loco”; he repeated the same admission in the area of the 
Chinese Sea: “In questo mar sono molte insule, le quali non met{t|o, per non haver loco ” 
(Placido Zurla, I/ mappamondo di Fra Maurv. Venezia, 1806: 38). 


15. The enormous distances between some of these groups of islands (820 miles from Inebila 
to Maniole, 400 miles from Maniole to Bazacata) show that Bordone has fitted in one drawing 
a host of disparate islands that would be improper to gather in one archipelago. Bordone’s 
knowledge of these entities and their location appears very sketchy. 


416 LUIGI MONGA 


a common topos in Renaissance cartography'’); in two of the other islands (“‘isole 
di satyri”) men are said to be born with a tail; there is even an archipelago of 
nine small rocks made of lodestone (Maniole)"’ that attract ferrous material from 
passing ships, pulling out their nails and shipwrecking them; finally, the only 
plausible island in this 
anonymous archipelago, 
Bazacata, has no peculiar 
properties other than the 
best pearls in the world. 
Itis obvious that the infor- 
mation trickling down 
from the explorers to the 
cartographers could not be 
judged independently, and 
legendary, plausible, and 
real islands were juxta- 
posed with no effort to 
determine their location. 
By crumbling away the 
globe into small entities, 
the Iso/aro avoided also the 
vexata quaestio of establish- 
ing their exact location in the ocean, for in early modern cartography, islands 
were perceived as mysterious sites that were not easily accessible and could be 
reached only by sheer chance. In fact, until the middle of the eighteenth century, 
when accurate longitudinal coordinates were established, navigators would just 
“happen” onto islands.’* And , once they sailed away, it was practically impossible 


Geographia. Eiius fimiliendo. 








Fig. 6. From Petrus Apianus’s Cosmographia (1524) 


16. See, infra, the discussion on the island of the Amazones, thought to be located near the 
island of California, according to the early Renaissance tendency to accumulate peculiar 
elements (“singularités,” as French cartographers called them) marking the geographical 
mythology of distant lands. 


17. A 15th-century map (British Library, Harley MS 7182) sets this archipelago (Maniolae insulae 
antropofagorum) in the Arabian Sea (Pelagus Indicus), combining cannibals and lodestones, while 
it puts the Satyrorum insulae in the Bay of Bengal (Whitfield 12-13). Lestringant (1991, 121- 
124)discusses the description of this archipelago in André Thevet’s Cosmographie universelle. 


18. This “island syndrome” was particularly dramatic in establishing the cartography of the 
immense Pacific Ocean, where many islands were still vaguely located in 18th-century maps 
and kept moving about. A case in point is a map of 1771, in which the cartographer who 
described the voyage of de Bougainville around the world wrote that the position, and even 
the existence, of the Solomon Islands was not clear (“V’existence et la position sont douteuses,” 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 417 


for them to return to these small dots lost in the immensity of the ocean. Antonio 
Pigafetta’s description of Magellan’s discovery of the so called “Isole infortunate” 
in the Pacific Ocean on January 24, 1521, shows the ambiguity of Renaissance 


geography, since he relied 
on inaccurate measure- 
ments of distances and only 
on latitudinal data: “due 
isolotte disabitate  [...], 
lungi luna dall’altra due- 
cento leghe [...]; la prima 
sta in 15 gradi di latitudine 
all’australe, e l’altra in 9” 
(Relaztone del primo viaggio 
intorno al mondo, 42). The 


fole aquefte per inacttro per migha cento ucno,iono pofte tra qua 
EN each et Ee igus eda femine habirata, {éz2 alchuno huo 
mo &n6 molto dale: fe dilonga incbilayuna [[ola cof deta )altrefi da haomini 
fenza fernine habitara gli qualinel mefe di maggio fopra I'{fola delle femune pal, 
fano , &cofiper mefitte con effefanno dimora , & patlaro quefto tempo tor, 
nano alla fua [fola,& quello che queftc femine parturifcono fe efemina per loro 
la rengono,s'¢ mafchio fannolo accapo de anni re all'[fola portare de glihuomy 
ni & cofi quefte [fole raai non mancano di gente. -* 
PER oftro 4 qfte I'fole derte maniole,p miglia ottocéto uéa wi fono pote, nelle 
quali, fe dicono cffer la pictra calamuta,& che fe di quindi naaigi fits c6 chiow di 
fetto paflano fon fabito da quella pierra dd nauigio fuon cumin &in coral moa 
do inauigli (cofican rimanédofi fomergono.Et p greco ck ie ui ¢ pofta I'Ifor 
la detra bazacata,diftice miglia quarrocento , che de molte cic peti, habonda ; 
& gli habianti aano tur nud , alla quale per oftro , grace j Tfola di faryri in cus 
glihaomini con I2 coda nafcono,come appo aui i [atyri fi pingono , & tutte que, 
fte fono potteal primo parellelo uerfo oftro. 


enormous’ distance 
between them could not 
justify calling them an 
archipelago, but Sebastian A 
Minster did it anyway in e 

his 1550 Cosmographia, 
putting these “Insulae 
infortunatae” off the coast 
of Peru, probably for 
moral symmetry with the 
“Tnsulae fortunatae,” the 
mythical Canary Islands.” 
Locating islands in the 
well-traveled waters of the North Atlantic should have been a much easier task 
than positioning newly-found islands in the Pacific Ocean, but sixteenth-century 
northern European cartography is nonetheless a froth of lies spread by “savants 
de cabinet” (Broc 132). Christian legends and pagan sagas influenced maps 
from Nicolé Zeno’s Aélas of 1558 to a 1594 map of the North Atlantic by Jan 
van Doetecum, in which Iceland is mirrored by an imaginary island of Frisland, 
while a host of other imaginary rocks dot the ocean: the island of Buss, thought 
to be spotted by Frobisher in 1578 between Ireland and Greenland, the islands 
of St. Bernaldo, southeast of Greenland, St. Brendan, near Newfoundland, and 
other smaller islands (Estland, Icaria, Estoliland, Drogeo), accepted by 
cartographers as reliable as Mercator (1569) and Ortelius (1570). One of the 


ees 


eS 
Gecacata 


ifole di OO 
f fm DO 


jinebila 





Fig. 7. Description and map from Bordone’s Isodario (1534) 


Whitfield 123). 
19. See T. J. Cachey, Jr., Le Isole Fortunate: appunti di storia letteraria italiana (Rome: L’Erma, 1995). 


418 LUIGI MONGA 


longest-lived cartographic fallacies of the North Atlantic, here shown ina 1513 
map by Waldseemiiller [Fig. 8], is the island of Brazil, off the western coast of 
Ireland, separated from its real double in South America and probably a remnant 
of the Plato’s legendary Atlantis. 

The well-charted waters of the 
Mediterranean were somewhat free 
of sea monsters,” for centuries of 
sailing created porto/ani that registered 
only pragmatic observations collected 
by real mariners. They were indis- 
pensable tools for sailors who had 
no tolerance for fiction or mythology, 
and accompanied pilots’ books of the 
Mediterranean such as Alonso de 
Contreras’s Derrotero universal, which 
followed a serra terra galley route from 
Cabo de Sao Vicente in Portugal and 
the strait of Gibraltar to the Italian 
peninsula, Greece, Turkey, and the 
North-A frican coast to Ceuta, offer- 

Fig. 8. The island of Brazil, west of Ireland (Hibernia), ing . medley of geographical details 

by Martin Waldseemilller (1513) of harbors, fresh water supplies, and 

dangers of people and places. Like 

pilots’ maps, Columbus’s sketch of a stretch of the coast of Hispaniola [Fig. 

9] left no room for subjective notations and unnecessary details. But accuracy, 

a sine qua non of cartography, was far from being an easily attainable goal. Many 

silences have accumulated through centuries of map making, and blank spaces 

of undomesticated regions were hidden by frightening animals as in Cornelius 
de Jode’s territories of Nova Guinea [Fig. 10]. 

Maps have often been drawn according to mythical beliefs and political 

parti-pris.”’ A well-known map drawn by German cartographers (Johannes Putsch, 


ili, 







He ihh rf 


th 


20. Frank Lestringant has studied the myth of “Caloyeros,” a dangerous island that appeared 
in many Iso/an of the Mediterranean (Buondelmonti, delli Sonetti, Coronelli, Thevet, etc.). 
Although its location shifted to various locations, it represented a “spatial metonymy” and a 
“anthropomorphic metaphor” (1993, 36-41) of latent fears that pervaded Renaissance seafarers 
even in a “safe” sea. 


21. A spherical Earth had already been conjectured by Greek astronomers and its 
circumference calculated by Eratosthenes in the 3rd century B.C., yet in medieval times 
European mapmakers still drew the Earth as a flat circle (the so-called “T-map”) surrounded 
by the ocean, the top half representing Asia and the bottom divided in two parts, Europe and 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 419 


1537; Matthias Quad, 
1587) and published 
in various editions of 
Minster’s Cosmogra- 
phia, portrayed Eu- 
rope as a caring 
queen who nourished 
Fig. 9. Columbus’s sketch of the northwestern coast of Hispaniola her subjects returning 





to her bosom after 
conquering the world. Another map. Leo et engraved 4 M. Eitzinger in 
1588 and popular in Dutch cartog- ———— 
raphy, mimicked the shape of the PP acipeage iS Silas seemtszee 
Low Countries as a proud lion, yp 
roaring against invaders.” <A 
thought-provoking female figure 
of Amenta | Fig. 11] was engraved 
by Theodor Galle (ca. 1580) after 
a drawing by Jan van der Straet 
(1575). Amerigo Vespucci, the 
explorer after whom the New 
World was named,” is portrayed 
as having just landed. His ship is 
in the background and he is facing 
a naked woman lying on a ham- 
mock, her club leaning next to a 
tree. Standing straight and carrying 
a sword, an astrolabe and a cruci- 
form staff with a banner (symbols 3 
of military might, scientific know- = 


ledge, and religious truth), Vespucci Fig. 10. Cornelius de Jode’s Nova Guinea (Antwerp 1593) 





Africa. Religious beliefs influenced this system, replacing scientific knowledge with 
preconceived formulas, suggesting either a rectangular Earth (“a quattuor plagis terre,” Is 
11:12) or a circular one (“qui sedet super gyrum terra,” Is 40:22) with Jerusalem in the very 
middle of it (“in medio gentium posui,” Ez 5:5). And, although a belief in the existence of the 
antipodes was at times considered heretical by some medieval authorities, Christian scholars 
like Albertus Magnus and Roger Bacon accepted as fact the sphericity of the Earth. 


22. H. A. M. Heijden, Leo Belgicus: An Illustrated and Annotated Cart-bhography (Alphen aan de 
Rijn: Canaletto, 1990). 


23. Martin Waldseemiiller’s map of 1507 assigned the name America to the new land he 
mistakenly believed discovered by Vespucci (“[America] ab eius nominis inventore dicta”). 


420 LUIGI MONGA 





Fig. 11. America, drawn by J. van der Straet (Stradarius) and engraved by Th. Galle (ca. 1580) 


gazes at her, surrounded by exotic flora and fauna. In the distance, a fire tended 
by natives suggests a primitive, yet not peaceful way of life, for they are roasting 
severed human body parts ona spit. [Fig. 11a] Critics have underscored 1n this 
image a sequence of striking dichotomies: woman/ nature/ passivity versus man/ 
technology/action. The rape of this woman has not yet taken place, but in 
hindsight we know that it is impending. The European male has conquered 
a new world, a gendered island, and has given her a feminine name (Monga 
1996, 30). The naked (ie., primitive) continent, inhabited by tribes unable to 
exploit their riches in a systematic manner, appears to Europeans as a land to 
be taken without legal or moral questions. 

As sedentary travelers wrote preposterous narratives, stay-at-home cartographers 
drew maps, a process that Saint-Exupéry’s self-centered geographer justified 
by emphasizing his own intellectual and social status (“le géographe est trop 
important pour flaner; il ne quitte pas son bureau”). The relationship between 
explorers and geographers is comparable to that between surgeons and medical 
doctors in the early modern period: practical vs. theoretical knowledge. Travel 
writers and travel liars insisted that their memoirs were written in the middle 
of the roaring elements, standing “en la chaise d’un navire, soubz la legon des 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 421 


vents” and not in the com- 


fort of their study. But this 
is not a mutually exclusive 
categorization, for “a poynt, 
lyne, angle, or measure 
wrought in the fieldes and 
foule wether” should not 
clash with “operations fram- 
ed in a well lighted house, 
upon a faire levell and 
smoothe table, the eye and 
hand hanging plumme over 
the worke, to be set down 





Fig. 11a. Detail from Jan van der Straet’s America 


upon angles, measures, & all other regards curiously taken and noted abroad.”” 
Giovanni Battista Ramusio was among the first editors of travel narrative to 


Difeovered, AD 1703 





expose the shameful irresponsib- 
ility (“‘vergognosa audacia e 
temerita”) of cartographers who 
had put the northwestern passage 
in their charts (Navigazioni di S. 
Caboto, Pref., 2). The map of the 
Brobdingnag peninsula in the 
Gulhver’s Travels set Swift’s tale 
in the general area of the unex- 
plored territory north of Califor- 
nia, here anglicized as “New 
Albion,” near the mythical Straits 
of Anian that was thought to 
separate the American continent 
from Asia. [Fig. 12] Well-known 
toponyms like Mendocino, 
Monterey, and San Francisco (a 
political/ religious slant connect- 
ing this city to Sir Francis Drake 
instead to the Mission de San 
Francisco de Asis) gave Swift’s 


Fig. 12. A map of Brobdingnag (from Swift’s Gulhver’s Traeb) Map (and satire) a realistic valida- 


24. André Thevet, La Cosmographie universelle (Paris: L’Huillier, 1575), 2: 907. 


25. Radolph Agas, A Preparative to Platting the Landes and Tenements for Surveigh (London: Th. 


Scarlet, 1596): 4-5. 


422 LUIGI MONGA 


tion, setting his fictional peninsula in a geographic context that blended fiction 
with verifiable reality. 

The cartography of the New World offers us striking aberrations. Some 
maps reported a non-existent internal sea at the latitude of Chesapeake Bay, 
stretching almost to the Pacific Ocean;” others located Marco Polo’s 7448 islands 
just off the coast of California, but the most outrageous early modern hoax is 
the “island of California.” Expecting to find an island they knew as California 
from a chivalric romance,” sixteenth-century explorers and geographers, 
anticipated a rich land where Queen Calafia was said to rule over a population 
of fierce, man-eating Amazons, somewhere along the northwestern coast of 
Mexico (and close to the Earthly Paradise!).” And it is not improbable that 
sixteenth-century Spanish explorers were affected by their readings. Witness 
an astonished Bernal Diaz del Castillo, entering the beautiful city of Mexico, 
remarking that 


desde que vimos tantas ciudades y villas pobladas en el agua, y en tierra firme 
otras grandes poblaciones, y aquella calzada tan derecha y por nivel como 
iba a México, nos quedamos admirados y deciamos que parecia a las cosas 


26. A letter by Verrazzano about his journey of discovery from Florida to Newfoundland 
(1523-1524) mentioned a narrow isthmus that was thought to separate the Atlantic from the 
sea of Cathay. Soon maps began to appear, showing a “Mare Indicum”: Sebastian Miinster gave 
this myth his authority and as late as 1651 John Farrer’s map of Virginia stated that the Pacific 
shore was only a ten-day hike from the Atlantic. 


27. Las Sergas de Esplandian, a romance by Garci Ordofiez de Montalvo about the adventures 
of Esplandian, the son of Amadis of Gaul (also in Don Quijote’s library), was a popular book, 
published in Seville in 1510. It helped to spread the the myth of California in Spain: “Sabed 
que 4 la diestra mano de las Indias, muy llegada a la parte del Paraiso Terrenal, la cual fué 
poblada de mujeres negras, sin que algun varon entre ellas hubiese, que casi como las 
amazonas era su estilo de vivir. [...] Las suas armas eran todas de oro, y tambien la guarniciones 
de las bestias feras en que, de las haber amansado, cabalgaban. [...] En esta isla, California 
llamada, habia muchos grifos, por la grande aspereza de la tierra y por las infinitas salvajinas 
que en ella habitaban. [...] Cualquiera varon que en la isla entrase, luego por ellas era muerto 
y comido” (ch. 157). This myth was so well accepted that even Columbus was convinced that 
his first voyage led him to the vicinity of the Earthly Paradise. A Florentine merchant, 
Francesco Carletti, who had been in Mexico in 1596, wrote about “il paese detto delle 
Californie, luoghi che sono nel continente della costiera dove é il predetto porto d’Acapulco. 
[...] E questa provincia abbondantissima di miniere d’oro e d’argento.”(69-70). 


28. A comparable situation occurred during the exploration of South America by Magellan, 
who named the southernmost region Patagonia, from a monster found by Primaleon, son of 
Palmerin de Oliva, of the homonymous romance (Salamanca, 1511), a book in Don Quixote’s 
library, where it was found with Palmerin de Ingalaterra, translated from the Portuguese. 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 423 


de incantésimo que cuentan en el libro de Amadis.” 


So, the general practice of naming a newly-discovered land after Iberian toponyms 
or religious eponyms could be set aside in favor of Spanish lore. In 1535 Hernan 
Cortés and his conquistadores, and later on Alarcon and Coronado, surveyed Baja 
California, failing to determine the shape of that region. It is probable that his 


: (he MeExique i Heeb | 
; since js 6c | Mek 
WV ane 
} rogr iy Roy. Y 
vey Prevmelenye 


Queves 


wen 
APACHES Tebes 
pe 
aM 


Li Las 











wgne fous Te Tiopieque du Cancer 
PACIFICQUE 











Fig. 13. Audience de Guadalajara, Nouveau Mexique, Cakfornie by Nicolas Sanson d’Abbeville (Pans 1657) 
[Courtesy of the Glenn McLaughlin Collection} 


sion, a Carmelite friar and amateur geographer who sailed with Sebastian Vizcaino 
in 1602. He and the sailors in his party, tired of sailing north along the barren 
shores of the “Mar Vermejo” (today’s Gulf of Baja California), abandoned their 
exploration, declaring that California was an island. Contemporary scientific 
methods had not trickled down to individuals who still considered the auctoritas 
of books of chivalry more reliable than their own visual observation. Cervantes’s 


29. Bernal Diaz de Castillo, Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva Espana, ed. Joaquin 
Ramirez Cabafia (México: Porrua, 1977), ch. 87: 1: 260; see also ch. 151, when Diaz compared 
the numerous battles fought against the Mexicans (“y no los pongo por capitulos de lo que 
cada dia haciamos porque me parecio que era gran prolijidad, y era cosa para nunva acabar, y 
pareceria a los libros de Amadis o Caballerias; [...] y lo diré mas breve que pueda,” 2: 30). 


424 LUIGI MONGA 


old parish priest was not unjustified for using Montalvo’s infamous book to 
start the bonfire of Don Quixote’s library! At first, Hondius and Blaeu, the 
most reputable Dutch cartographers of the seventeenth century refused to join 
in the new trend, but eventually other of their confréres, including Nicolas Sanson, 
accepted the notion of the island of California® [Fig. 13], rapidly promoting 
it, thanks to the plausibility of the technical conventions of cartography. Only 
at the turn of that century a Jesuit explorer of the Sonora area, Fr. Eusebio Kino, 
brought this legend to an end, and finally, in 1722, Guillaume Delisle drew a 
better map of that area. The myth, however, proved hard to kill, and a royal 
edict by Ferdinand VI of Spain in 1747 forced that imaginary island to join the 
North-American continent, but California kept creeping into maps as an island. 
The last one was printed in Japan in 1865!” 

In 1744 Jacques Cassini, an Italian cartographer at the court of France, drew 
a reasonably accurate map of France using trigonometric triangulations. 
Imperfections, however, were inevitable, for Cassini’s instruments were too 
rudimentary to allow for precise computation of distance and angles.” Jorge 
Luis Borges proposed the perfect, albeit surrealistic, solution to this conundrum 
in a short story disguised as a fragment of a seventeenth-century account of 
a description of an imaginary land: 


En aquel imperio, el arte de la cartografia logro tal perfeccion que el mapa 
de una provincia ocupaba una ciudad, y el mapa del imperio toda una provincia. 
Con el tiempo, esos mapas desmesurados no satisfacieron y los colegios de 
cartografos levantaron un mapa del imperio, que tenia el tamajio del imperio 
y coincidia puntualmente con él. Menos adictas al estudio de la cartografia, 
las generaciones siguentes entendieron que ese dilatado mapa era inutl y no 
sin empiedad lo relegaron a la inclemencia del sol y de los inviernos. En los 
desiertos del Oeste perduran despedazadas ruinas del mapa, habitadas por 
animales y por mendigos; en todo el pais non hay otra reliquta de las disciplinas 


30. Among the best known among them: Antonio de Herrera (1622), Abraham Goos (1624), 
Henry Briggs (1625), John Speed (1626), Jan Jansson (1636), Pieter Goos (1666), Nicolas San- 
son (1667), Nicolaas Visscher (1680), Giovanni Rossi (1687), Frederick de Wit (1688), John 
Senex (1711), and H. de Leth (1740). 


31. R. V. Tooley, California as an Island, in Map Collectors’ Circle, no. 8 (London, 1964); Glenn 
McLaughlin and Nancy H. Mayo mention four maps published in Japan from 1796 to 1865 
in which California is portrayed as an island (The Mapping of California as an Island. Saratoga: The 
California Map Society, 1995; Occasional Paper, no. 5: 105-106). 


32. Cassini’s map of France showed a much smaller territory than what it was believed to be, 
prompting Louis XV to complain that his geographer had caused him to lose more territory 
than a failed military campaign. 


MAPPING THE JOURNEY / TRANSLATING THE WORLD 425 
geograficas.” 


Borges’s solution, however, reversed “the operative order of cartographic semiosis” 
(Klein 79) by implying that the best map is the most detailed one; he also exploded 
the fundamental referentiality of the map and its mimetic relationship with reality. 
Tongue in cheek, he set the remains of that “useless” and oversized map in 
a vague no man’s land, avoiding any explanation of how it could have been 
moved there! This solution would mean the end of geography as a theoretical 
discipline, now reduced to a utopian device. Never one to let a good hunch 
go to waste, Umberto Eco playfully commented on Borges’s text in an essay 
“Dellimpossibilita di costruire la carta dell’ Impero 1 a 1,”** humorously outlining 
some of the “difficolta pratiche e paradossi insormontabili” involved in making 
this “strumento semiotico, capace cioé di significare ’impero o permettere 
riferimenti all’impero specie in quei casi in cui l’impero non sia altrimenti 
percepibile.” An impossible task, indeed, for this map would have to record 
also the presence and movements of people, including the occasional user of 
the map! 

While postmodern critics of travel narrative have emphasized the hopelessness 
of dealing objectively with the description of facts, the accuracy of maps has 
improved dramatically with satellite photography and mapping processes obtained 
by automated technology that scans electronically the Earth’s surface and converts 
it into visible images that record it with a degree of accuracy almost unthinkable 
a few decades ago. The new Space Oblique Mercator Projection (SOMP) based 
ona series of complex equations offers a more accurate cartography of the globe.” 
Microwave and infrared photographs that measure variations in spectral reflectance 
instead of the patterns of light of traditional pictures help us understand what 
is underground, with specific applications in archeology and geology, crop 
management and land conservation, analysis of continental drift and fault 
movements, monitoring of human pollution, global changes, and urban 
development, plus the usually secret array of intelligence gathering tools. Multilens 
cameras that can simultaneously photograph one section of the earth vertically 


33. “El rigor en la ciencia,” E/ hacedor (1960) in Obras completas (Barcelona: Emecé, 1989), 2: 
225; the text had appeared in Borges’s Historia universal de la infamia (1954). To transpose this 
concept into visual narrative, one could postulate a recording of a journey in which each day 
is documented by a 24-hour long video tape! 


34. I! secondo diario minimo (Milan: Bompiani, 1992): 157-163. 
35. For a recent example of modern mapmaking of the highest caliber, see in the National 
Geographic (May 2003) a digitalized map of Mount Everest, created from millions of data points 


collected by an aerial photography expedition. Offering enhanced shaded relief and elevation 
contours, it is the most detailed representation ever produced of the planet’s highest mountain. 


426 LUIGI MONGA 


and an oblique one allow stereoscopic renditions of three-dimensional images 
in high resolution. Carrying out by proxy their exploration of the world, modern 
cartographers will never have to depend on lying explorers crossing high seas 
on fragile vessels. Earth maps have no more blank spaces left for the dreamy 
eyes of the children of the third-millennium, and the unknown has been removed 
to outer space. In fact, the latest expeditions to Mars show that we can map 
even areas on which human beings have not yet set foot! The major task of 
modern cartography involves the constant reassessing of ever-changing political 
borders according to the latest feuds among the denizens of this “aiuola che 
ci fa tanto feroci” (Parad. 22, 151), and we all feel somewhat akin to Cervantes’s 
cortesanos whose journeys were limited to their home library, “sin salir de sus apo- 
sentos ni de los umbrales de la corte, mirando un mapa, sin costarle blanca, 
ni padecer calor ni frio, hambre ni sed” (Don Quijote, I, V1) 

At the outset of our inquiry, disappointed that our analysis of contemporary 
travel narrative had showed it as hopelessly entangled with fiction, we had hoped 
that maps, drawn according to the “vera scientia” of mathematics, as Benedetto 
Bordone wrote in his Iso/ario, could reveal an objective portrait of the world. 
Ironically, this was the same Bordone we saw drawing fictional islands next 
to perfectly real ones. If the solution of our conundrum is to let machines collect 
and analyze objective geographic data, excluding all human interventions in 
this process, we must not forget that machines and robots are driven by man-made 
software and must be interpreted by human beings prone to errors and confusion. 
And, while travel narrative continues to be entangled in postmodern subjectivity, 
cartography appears to have a better chance to become an objective representation 


of the geographic reality. 


Vanderbilt University 
Works Cited 
Broc, Numa. La Géographie de la Renaissance. Paris: CTHS, 1986. 
Carletti, Francesco. Ragionamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo. Torino: Einaudi, 1958. 


Klein, Bernhard. Maps and the Writing Space in Early Modern England and Ircland. New 
York: Palgrave, 2001. 


Lestringant, Frank. L’Ateher du cosmographe, ou L'image du monde a Ja Renaissance. Paris: 
Albin Michel, 1991. 


Monga, Luigi. “Travel and Travel Writing: An Historical Overview of Hodoeporics,” 
AdI 14 (1996): 6-54. 


Ouellet, Réal. “Qu’est-ce qu'une relation de voyage?” in Cl. Duchet and S. Vachon, 
eds. La Recherche hitteraire: objets et méthodes (Montréal: XYZ, 1993): 235-246. 


Whitfield, Peter. New Found Lands: Maps in the History of Exploration. London: The British 
Library, 1998. 


FRANCESCO SBERLATI 





Eroi verso Oriente: 
Pesotismo nella letteratura medievale 


ra XII e XIV secolo, l’elaborazione di una narrativa aperta a solu- 

zioni di stampo fiabesco-avventuroso codifica una tramatura di 

stilemi romanzeschi ove la ricostruzione degli ambienti geografici 
accoglie in larga misura elementi orientaleggianti ed esotici. Si tratta di un 
tipo di letteratura che va posto in stretta correlazione col ceto mercantile, 
dedito ai viaggi in Oriente per ragioni professionali, la cui presenza nelle fa- 
sce di pubblico pit permeabili alla ricezione di modelli comportamentali é€ 
particolarmente consistente tra Due e Quattrocento. Ne risulta improntata 
una produzione larga e brillante, che ha trasmesso in eredita alcuni carattert 
alla successiva fase “borghese” della prima meta del Quattrocento. L’imma- 
gine talvolta favolosa della geografia esotica sembra assumere infatti la sua 
ragione retorica sin dai poemi carolingi e bretoni, attraverso un rapporto in- 
tertestuale con 1 romanzi di materia classica. E proprio in questi ultimi, luo- 
ghi privilegiati di incontro tra eredita greco-latina e cultura medievale, attra- 
verso una fitta dialettica con l’epica e il romanzo, si assiste ad un processo 
di aggregazione degli ambienti geografici dell’Oriente, piu spesso immagina- 
ti che reali, che si sono poi venuti fissando in quelle consuetudini topiche 
delle quali proveremo qui a dare una lettura storica e sociale. 

La direzione del viaggio cavalleresco risulta legata al fascino dell’esoti- 
smo gia dal Roman d’Alexandre, reso piu incisivo dall’evocazione di un passa- 
to leggendario e fabuloso, e dai Facts des Romains (opera nota anche con 1 ti- 
tolo di Histoire anaenne jusqu’a César), il cui esotismo di maniera é evidente 
nella redazione italiana det Fath di Cesare. Gli sviluppi narrativi compiono 
qui un processo di assestamento “topografico” in larga parte coincidente a 
quello del ciclo di chansons de geste 0 de chevalenie: a vincolazione all’esotismo é 
evidente sul piano della toponomastica (“Pompeo [...] se n’ando in Soria a 
Damasco [...] quando li Judei rifecero Bambillona”; “fu recato di Persia e 
d’Africa e di Macedonia”; Pompeio conquisto in Oriente e per la terra d’A- 
sia’), della casistica erotica (“e fu si bello che la reina Cleopatra ne ’nva- 
ghi’’), e specialmente della struttura odeporica del viaggio verso terre ignote, 
con esplicito rinvio all’auctoritas del Roman d’Alexandre (“Qui si parla di colo- 


Annali d'Ttalianistica 21(2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


428 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


ro che furono mandati dal re Alessandro in cerca di nuove terre’’).!_ I mede- 
simi modelli si ripetono nelle trame rimaneggiate di opere come il Piramus et 
Tisbé, 1 Roman d’Enéas (noto ai lettori italiani nella versione dei Fath d’Enea 
di Guido da Pisa), i Roman de Thebes: tutte compatte in una saldatura at 
moduli di una geografia esotica intesa quale supporto di legittimazione ro- 
manzesco-avventurosa. Ancora piu significativo da questo punto di vista é il 
Roman de Troe, soprattutto nella stesura di Benoit de Sainte-Maure, poi rifu- 
so, tramite la mediazione colta dell’ Historia destructionis Trotae di Guido delle 
Colonne, nei diversi cantari volgari della Guerra di Trota. In essi sono ben 
riconoscibili 1 singoli blocchi del materiale complessivo legato in varia forma 
alla tradizione dell’esotismo letterario, evidente innanzitutto sul registro 
antropologico del confronto con etnie extraeuropee (“de’ regno d’Asia gien- 
te cruda et croia”; “dell’India [...] gran quantitade/di cavalier fortissim1’), 
ma documentabile anche nella selezione qualitativa dei fopor e nella com- 
pattazione di registri “scenografici” affini a quelli del futuro poema epico- 
cavalleresco, individuabili in filigrana persino nell’onomastica (“nell’oste 
greca lo re Palamidesse”) e nel personaggio del re-gigante orientale (“Que- 
sto re chiamat’era Filimeno / d’un regno che si chiama Parfochona / quasi 
come gigante o poco meno / avea lunga statura sua persona / e pe’ paesi 
del suo terreno / Tigris d’Eufrates s’abandona’’).? 

Sin dal XIII secolo si progetta e si formalizza la coesione dei materiali 
topici e retorici a vantageio dei generi epico e romanzesco. Tra questi ma- 
teriali vi € anche il vasto repertorio dei motivi esotici, ben noti agli autori del 
basso Medioevo e facilmente riusabili in forme e recuperi intertestuali per- 
fettamente funzionali a una narrazione che doveva in primo luogo suscitare 
la cunositas del lettore occidentale, per lo piu ignaro del mondo asiatico (cioe, 
all’epoca, arabo-musulmano, persiano, indiano, cinese), del quale ancora 
aveva, malgrado il resoconto di Marco Polo e degli altri mercanti viagguatori, 
una percezione vaga e indistinta, priva di specifiche determinazioni spaziali 
ed etnico-linguistiche. Ma nell’immaginario collettivo dell’Europa cristiana, 
’Oriente “era anche V’hortus voluptats, il grardino di Venere, il paradiso det 
sogni proibiti, il teatro immaginario delle fantasie sessuali piu ardite, l’oriz- 
zonte onirico trasgressivo dell’uomo medievale. In quel mondo alla rove- 
scia, in quell’universo capovolto, regnavano il nudismo e l’erotismo e face- 
vano cadere le barriere che nel quotidiano allontanavano l'uomo occi- 


1. Le citazioni da L. Bianchi (a cura di), I fate & Cesare. Testo di lingua inedito del secole XIV 
(Bologna: Commissione pe’ testi di lingua, 1863), pp. 47-48, 114, 115. Una ulteriore con- 
notazione del roman d’argomento classico in senso epico-cavalleresco é garantita dall’esplicito 
richiamo ai paladini di p. 103: “Quelli si combattevano prodemente: per niente si parla d’Or- 
lando e d’Uliviero appo costoro.” 


2. Il testo della Guerra & Troia si legge in F. A. Ugolini, I Cantari d’argomento classico. Con 


un 'appendice di testi inedti (Genéve-Firenze: Olschki, 1933), pp. 187-97. Le citazioni sono 
rispettivamente dai vv. 219, 204-05, 114, 265-70 del cantare. 


EROI VERSO ORIENTE 429 


dentale, limitato e represso, dai fantasmi e dai desideri del sesso, inchio- 
dandolo all’interno di strutture familiari chiuse e sclerotizzate.”> Anche per 
questa ragione, la prospettiva che il viaggio in Oriente — non importa se au- 
tentico o immaginario — dischtude, costituisce una peculiarita della lette- 
ratura medievale, in particolare della narrativa e dell’epica cavalleresca. Le 
“maraviglie” esotiche rimanevano una tentazione troppo forte per l’irruente 
viaggiatore occidentale, spesso tutt’altro che compiacente verso il mondo 
islamico da cui esse provenivano, che pero con toni ammiccanti si augurava 
di poterne prendere sollazzo, indifferente persino all’invettiva teologica o 
moralistica. Questo atteggiamento psicologico acquista particolare signifi- 
cato se lo si trova addirittura condiviso dall’eroe della cavalleria carolingia, 
difensore del cristianesimo dall’avanzata dei musulmani, il quale abbandona 
in taluni casi lo scontro con l’islam e le sue tematiche tradizionali, per con- 
cedersi piuttosto un lungo e gratificante soggiorno nei paesi dell’eresia. 
Indicando le fasi e le tipologie della mediazione letteraria nel trasferi- 
mento dei testi dalla Francia all’Italia, occorrera non disattendere la fonda- 
mentale rielaborazione che l’esotismo trova nell’ Entrée d’Espagne, stesa da un 
Anonmimo Padovano tra il 1320 e il 1330 in decasillabi misti ad alessandrini 
(cioé il metro del Roman d’Akxandre). Qui la matrice della geografia esotica, 
esplicitata sul registro narrativo dal viaggio di Orlando in Oriente, subentra 
consapevolmente come innovazione centrale. Essa é implicita a un disegno 
di revisione delle fonti oitaniche e si fissa come opzione ricostruttiva di una 
tradizione differente, restando come canone denotativo dell’epos cavallere- 
sco italiano, sino alla sua conferma e alla sua rwutilizzazione da parte degli 
autori del Rinascimento, in primo luogo Boiardo e Ariosto.4 Ampliando le 
frontiere dell’epica tradizionale, nell’Entrée Orlando solca il mare (“Vait s’an 
la nef, char molt ot bons oraje”, DXI, 1), per divenire cavaliere errante in 
una qxéle verso terre sconosciute sulle antiche tracce del protagonista del Ro- 
man d’Alexandre (“plus avés cunquis en un jor de semaine / que non fist Ali- 
xandre sor la giant Indiaine”, DX, 23-24). E questo non é un dato marginale: 
é anzi l’elemento piu caratteristico e significativo della poesia epica scritta 


3. A. Toaff, Mostri gindet. L’immaginario ebraico dal Medioevo alla prima eta moderna (Bologna: Il 
Mulino, 1996), p. 16. 


4. F. Sberlati, “Dall’ Entrée d’Espagne all’ Orlando Innamoratc. una genealogia non solo lin- 
guistica”, in G. Ancheschi e T. Matarrese, I/ Bozardo e il mondo estense nel Ouattrocento. Atti del 
Convegno Internazionale di Studi: Scandiano - Modena - Reggio Emilia - Ferrara, 13-17 
settembre 1994 (Padova: Antenore, 1998), 1: 175-94; Id., “Sospensione e intrattenimento. 
Tracce di una tradizione orale nel Fyrioso,” in A. Battistini (a cura di), Mappe e letture. Studi in 
onore & Exzo Raimond (Bologna, Il Mulino, 1994), pp. 47-66. Per un quadro storico-culturale 
complessivo cfr. C. Bologna, “La letteratura dell’Italia settentrionale nel Trecento”, in A. 
Asor Rosa (a cura di), Letteratura italiana. Storia e geografia. L’eta medtevale, (Torino: Einaudi, 
1987), 1: 511-600. 


430 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


nell’Italia del Nord agli inizi del XIV secolo, appunto perché rappresenta la 
presa di coscienza che una collettivita fa di se stessa e dei suoi interessi, 
anche economici e commerciali (¢ in parte Venezia a fare da sfondo storico 
all’ Entrée, con la sua politica di colonialismo ed espansione dei traffici, fino a 
penetrare nelle piu lontane region: dell’Est astatico). D*altronde, come e 
stato giustamente osservato, “la poesia epica si realizza in momenti precisi 
della vita storica di una nazione, nel periodo appunto della sua formazione. 
[...] Infatti se gli ideali ed 1 problemi della canzone di gesta sono quelli della 
collettivita in formazione, ciO vuol dire che il pubblico é ad essi diret- 
tamente interessato” (Varvaro 238). 

Nell’Entrée, dietro Pazione narrativa di Orlando, si scorgono precisi 
moduli di vita sociale e culturale, i quali interferiscono nel réat perché altri- 
menti esso non avrebbe presa sugli ascoltatori cui é indirizzato. E proprio 
grazie al lungo soggiomo di Orlando in Oriente, l’autore dell’ Entrée traspo- 
ne nella fabula cavalleresca il modello comportamentale caratteristico del 
mercante medievale (si pensi solo a Marco Polo), per il quale la parte- 
cipazione diremmo antropologica alle civilta extraeuropee rappresentava 
una dominante del suo orizzonte psicologico e professionale. Questi ca- 
ratteri concorrono a determinare la struttura narrativa del viaggio di Or- 
lando in Oriente (Siria, Persia, India): l’episodio é, sotto certi aspetti, vera- 
mente dirompente, non solo perché in esso si verificano le ragioni della vita 
sociale del mercante, che deve affrontare e superare infiniti pericoli per 
condurre con successo i propri traffici, ma anche per la dimensione affa- 
bulatoria pit: aperta, atta a chiarire certe problematiche della collettivita e ad 
additare alcuni abiti mentali disposti alla comprensione dell’alterita. L’ab- 
bandono dell’Occidente da parte di Orlando, mentre si accinge a imbarcarsi 
sul vascello che lo portera di la dal mare, nelle terre misteriose dell’Asia, é il 
preannuncio di nuove avventure che terranno in curiosita il pubblico, at- 
tento a seguire le azioni del paladino. Il valore didattico dell’epica é soprat- 
tutto nell’esemplarita degli eroi, nella normativita del loro comportamento: 


Par lor jornees ont si fait lor corsaige 

que trove sunt en le gentils reignage: 

ce est la Sune [...] 

Por flums Jordans istrent dou port merage; 
menent la nef cuntremont les rivage; 

de jor en jor, par gant de maint lengaige, 
en plusor leus paierent les paisage. 

Dedans un lach, ge molt est grant et large, 
que Jordan staigne, chant trop infler l’incarge, 
entrent un jor chant vens les asoage. 

De grant rivere ert celluy laich aisis, 

de poi de plain et de grant plasseis 

e des citez et de ¢asteaus autys. 


EROI VERSO ORIENTE 431 


Rolant lesgarde; formant i abellis. 

Sor le estormant a sun destres brais mis. 
“Sire, — dist il — mout a ci beaus pais: 
n’est pas ensi le Spanois, m’est a vis.” 
Et cil i moustre Gaidres, que fu Bets, 
Larisse et Damiete, les vaus et le larns. 
Mais Rolant esgarda vers ore de mezdis: 
une citez percuit que, a suens devis, 
non sunt si belle ni Roume ni Paris 

de murs, de tours et de pallais vouts; 
sunt li le prez, li broils et li jardys; [...] 
ce est La Mech [...] 

Soudans de Perse en est le justiser. (Entrée, DX, 9-18) 


Il mito dell’Oriente, terra di racconti favolosi, di vicende magiche e di 
leggende oniriche, contrapposto all’ovvio e prevedibile orizzonte dell’Eu- 
ropa cristiana, affascinava il pubblico medievale. Costitutva anzi un sedu- 
cente richiamo per i mercanti, prima ancora che per gli esploratori o 1 mis- 
sionari. L’Oriente é il mondo delle meraviglie stupende e delle ricchezze ab- 
baglianti, dove sorgono citta con le quali né Roma né Parigi possono com- 
petere, con palazzi sontuosi e giardini lussureggianti, rette con senso di equa 
giustizia da sultani, sceicchi e khan. Nel lungo episodio dell’Exirée che ha 
come oggetto le miralika dell’Oriente, Orlando perde gradualmente la sua 
connotazione di cavaliere, di bellator e miles Christi, per assumere quella di un 
instancabile e impavido scopritore di paesi sconosciuti, di curioso speri- 
mentatore dei costumi e degli stili di vita di popoli che lui sarebbe ideal- 
mente tenuto a vincere. Il campione di sfide inaudite contro i temibili Sara- 
ceni, “al tempo che passaro 1 Mori / d’Africa il mare” e che in Europa 
“nocquer tanto” (Orlando furioso, 1, 1. 3-4), smarrisce il significato della sua 
missione storica e indossa i panni del “mercatante,” protagonista di un 
esotismo folclorico con 1 suoi sogni proibiti e le sue licenziose costumanze, 
associato all’immagine del lusso e dell’abbondanza, traboccante di 
indescrivibile opulenza. Questo legame con la cultura e la psicologia 
mercantile finisce col diventare nell’ Exirée uno degli aspetti piu meritevoli di 
attenzione in quanto da corso a uma serie di invenzioni narrative che 
avranno larga e duratura fortuna nell’ambito del genere cavalleresco, fino al 
Cinquecento. La nave del mercante sulla quale si imbarcano Rolando e 1 
suo cavallo, inseparabile compagno dell’aventure (“pora jé condur cist mes 
chevaus / en cil vostre dormons avec moi san e saus?” Entrée, 504. 21-22) 
stabilisce sin d’ora un Zopos del viaggio cavalleresco, che diventera ricorrente 
in un repertorio narrativo poi riasserito fino al Furcoso, nell’episodio del 
viaggio in gruppo di Marfisa, Astolfo, Sansonetto, Grifone e Aquilante: 


432 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


Or questi cinque in un drappello eletto, 
che pochi pari al mondo han di possanza, [...] 
vanno a Tripoli e al mar che we vicino. 
E quivi una caracca ntrovaro, 
che per Ponente mercantie raguna. 
Per loro e per cavalli s’accordaro 
con un vecchio patron ch’era da Luna. 
Mostrava d’ogn’intorno il tempo chiaro, 
ch’avrian per molt di buona fortuna. 
Sciolser dal lito, avendo ana serena, 
e di buon vento ogni lor vela piena. 
(Orlando furioso XVIII, 134. 5-8 — 135. 1-8) 


L’elemento topico del vascello mercantile in procinto di salpare per 
Levante si ritrova anche nell’epos parodico e talvolta dissacratorio del Baddus 
di Teofilo Folengo, dove nell’episodio del viaggio di Cingar in Turchia si ri- 
pete addirittura la scena dei cavalli presi a bordo. La misura narrativa (€ in- 
ventiva) dell’ Entrée ha fatto scuola, e puo essere ripetuta in diverse vartazio- 
mi tematiche, sempre tenendo presente pero quella peculiare realta sociale 
che non ha cessato di intervenire sulla coscienza dell’eroe, e non fa diffe- 
renza se la sua vicenda si risolva in trionfo o in tragicommedia: 


Ut fuit in portu Chiozae [...] 
hic trovat ingenti sistentem mole caraccam, 
quae ventrosa tenet buttas sex mille dedentrum. 
Haec in Turchiam, multis de rebus onusta, 
ire parat, dum prosper ei conceditur Auster. 
Immediate vocat Cingar cennatque parono, 
cui parlat, spondetque bonam pagare monetam, 
si Compagneros vult tres, totidemque cavallos 
ducere Turchiam versus, patriamque mororum. 
(Baldus XII, 35, 38-45) 


Occorre insistere sulle possibilita narrative che Entrée ha aperto al 
poema epico-cavalleresco, e indirettamente anche alla narrativa in prosa, per 
comprendere in che modo I’esotismo abbia potuto acquisire una rinnovata 
dimensione mitica, senza tuttavia restarne sopraffatto. L’Oriente premo- 
derno dell’Enirée non é€ piu |’India del medievale Roman d’Alexandre: gli uo- 
mini mostruosi dell’India incontrati da Alessandro (ciclopi, pelosi pigmet 
cinocefali, cannibali, trogloditi, monopodi), lasciano il posto alle bellissime 
donne in cui si imbatte Orlando, del cui fascino é tutt’altro che immune. 
Non piu primitive e incivili, ma evolute e raffinate si dimostrano le popo- 
lazioni con le quali il protagonista entra in contatto durante il suo viaggio in 
Asia, fino a restate ammaliato dalle fanciulle esotiche, subito disponibili 
nell’armonia dei loro corpi svestiti. L’ervs di cui l’esotismo medievale si am- 


EROI VERSO ORIENTE 433 


manta rivela le proiezioni inconfessabili dell’uomo europeo, le inaccettabili 
pulsioni venute a galla dall’immaginario represso: il sogno di terre lontane s1 
accompagna non solo alla cupidigia di ricchezza, di ori e di pietre preziose e 
di perle rare, ma anche alla libido di una liberta sessuale proibita all’Oc- 
cidente cristiano, ai richiami di una fisicita che ignorava il peccato originale 
e€ poteva essere goduta senza pudori e sensi di colpa. Nell’ Entrée lo stesso 
Orlando, solitario eroe vincitore di tante battaglie, é alla fine costretto ad 
arrendersi alla corporeita dell’essere, vittima di stupende membra femmuinilt, 
irresistibili nella loro esotica carnalita. Una volta allontanatosi dalla societa 
occidentale, e da certe sue peculiari strutture mentali automortificanti e 
repressive, il princeps dei comites palatint, \ miles Christ dell’ iconologia anglo- 
normanna, pud abbandonarsi alla forza del desiderio suscitato in lui dalla 
vista della principessa orientale (“Rolant la garde, trestot le sang li mue’), 
alla tensione esistenziale che rivendica 1 suoi appetiti, in radicale alterita 
rispetto al calco evangelico che segna il suo destino di europeo: 


La file ou roi i est devant venue [...] 

Vis oit bien feit e gardetire agiie, 

la char oit blanche come nif desendue, 

color vermoil come graine vendue, 

boche petite, danteure menue, 

oil oit riant, gant ert plus ireschue; 

sa blonde cnine ne vos ai mantete; 

soz ciel n’a home, tant ait chiere barbue, 

ne la quenst avoir en si braz nue. 

Rolant la garde, trestot le sang li mue. (Entrée 542. 5, 9-17) 


Chiunque la vedesse desidererebbe averla tra le braccia nuda: il sex 
appeal della giovane orientale é di gran lunga superiore a quello di Alda la 
bella, fidanzata di Orlando. Il coup de foudre collettivo provocato da Angelica 
nell’Innamorato del Boiardo, con la sua inattesa comparsa nella sala dove 
sono riuniti 1 baroni di Carlomagno, quando lo stesso imperatore ne resta 
turbato per l’inconsueta avvenenza, trova le sue premesse in questo episo- 
dio dell’Exirée. Figlia del re del Catai (pressappoco tra India e Cina), Ange- 
lica supera per bellezza le pit aggraziate dame della corte di Carlomagno 
(Galerana, Alda, Clarice, Ermelina). I beaux esprits dei fins amanz ttovano cosi 
nello sfondo esotico del lontano Oriente lo spazio topografico piu idoneo 
alla jouissance erotica. La moult bele conjotncture del viaggio di Orlando in 
Oriente rappresenta, nell’Extrée, la prima seducente accezione di un eso- 
tismo che si discosta dall’immaginario dell’Europa medievale, in cut preval- 
gono creature mostruose e stravaganti umanoidi zoomorfi, per esprimersi 
invece in tipologie antropologiche tutt’altro che disgustose, nelle quali il 
meccanismo psicologico dell’eres mette in moto quelle fantasie e quei de- 


434 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


sidert che la morale cristiana condannava come peccaminosi. In seguito al 
riuscito esperimento dell’Extrée, la tecnica narrativa che si serve di questo 
erotismo esotico si perfeziona gradualmente nel cantare cavalleresco del 
XIV e XV secolo, per poi vivere appieno gli ideali dell’ethos avventuroso e 
domuinare cosi la retorica amorosa del genere, evidente persino in un ‘opera 
scherzosa come il Morgante di Pulci (“Dunque tu vieni in Persia a inna- 
morarti / d’una pagana”’, XVI, 48. 4-5), nel quale per altro si riflette la piu 
realistica frequentazione dell’Oriente condotta in quell’epoca dal ceto mer- 
cantile. 

Nel costituirsit di una muitologia collettiva, specialmente mercantile e 
“borghese,” l’esotismo assume dunque sul piano simbolico un valore di 
primo piano. C’e del resto, oltre questa gradualita di situazioni letterarie e 
stati immiaginativi, una conoscenza dell’Oriente che per il Medioevo é 
intrinseca alla realta degli scambi commerciali insomma, una consa- 
pevolezza che si riflette nella letteratura e insieme la condiziona, limitan- 
done le p1u arrischiate estensioni affabulatorie. Importa tuttavia sottolineare 
ancora che I’integrazione della geografia fantastica nella letteratura (anche in 
quella di viaggio) é€ tanto intima da rappresentarne una insostituibile funzio- 
ne semantica. Non si tratta soltanto di tradurre in termini favolistici un 
mondo lontano nello spazio che non puo essere raggiunto con gli occhi 
dell’intelletto: si tratta pruttosto di una inclusione allegorica di scenari esotict 
restituiti alla contemplazione dei lettori in virtu di una secolare tradizione 
che si qualifica per la sua volonta di assimilare i] creato nella sua interezza. 

L’introduzione del “mercatante” quale personaggio centrale del 
racconto puo essere considerata, per certi rispetti, un’innovazione dell’epica 
italiana, a cominciare, come si € detto, dall’Exntrée d’Espagne (“dedans un ba- 
tel dui merceant entra / [...] Rollant, quan le percuit, cele part randona”, 
500. 15, 20) fino al Morgante e al Furioso, dove 1 paladini spesso si imbattono 
nei vari agenti di commercio in giro per |’Armenia, la Persia, |’ India. Anzi, di 
solito il mercante guida e accompagna il cavaliere errante nel suo viaggio 
alla volta dell’Onente, che il primo gia dimostra di conoscere nel retaggio 
culturale autoctono, indispensabile premessa alla buona riuscita dei traffici 
di beni, merci e valori. Nel Decameron questa geografia esotica si ripete e si 
avvalora proprio attraverso l’osservazione diretta di cui il mercante si 
mostra capace. Cosi, ad esempio, nella novella di Bernabo da Genova (I, 
IX), la narrazione si serve del veritiero resoconto di viaggio di “alquanti 
grandissimi mercatanti,” ammettendone la credibilita della figura sociale 
(“Io son mercatante e non fisofolo, e come mercatante rispondero”, II, Ix, 
44-57), quasi una auctoritas laica che ha visto empiricamente i luoghi e 1 paesi 
di cui parla, senza immaginarseli sulla scorta di dati inattendibili. Il mercante 


5. Cfr. F. Sberlati, “Esplorazione geografica e antropologia: esperienze di viaggio tra ’400 e 
°500,” Annali d'Ttakanistica, 14 (1996): 183-205. 


EROI VERSO ORIENTE 435 


conosce l’Oriente e chi lo abita dopo averlo lungamente frequentato (“vi 
dimorava volentieri”) per ragioni professionali (“ragunanza,” “fiera’”’), 
riporta gli avvenimenti di cui é testimone nel corso del viaggio e precisa la 
direzione dell’itinerario facendo ricorso all’esperienza personale: 


Questo Catalano con un suo carico navigo in Alessandna [...] dovendosi 
in un certo tempo dell’anno, a guisa d’una fiera, fare una ragunanza di 
mercatanti e cristiani e saracini in Acri, la quale sotto la signoria del 
soldano era; [...] Ambruogiuolo, finita la fiera, con ogni sua cosa se 
n’ando in Alessandria, dove Sicurano gli fece fare un fondaco e misegh in 
mano de’ suoi denani assai; per che egli, utl grande veggendosi, vi 
dimorava volentien. (Decameron II, IX, 18, p. 288) 


E davvero di alto significato — anche per l’uniformita dell’estetica d’e- 
strazione borghese — sembra essere il riuso parodico e addirittura sarcastico 
della topica esotica nella novella di Frate Cipolla (VI, X). Anche se il suo é 
un viaggio non realmente compiuto, ma solo simulato, verso luogh: lontant 
(“terre d’oltremare”), anche se il tragitto di cui egli racconta € tutto 
menzognero (da “brigante,” appunto), pur tuttavia il resoconto di quel 
“gran rettorico” e “ottimo parlatore,” segue lo schema tipico che rinvia 
all’itinerario del mercante. La direzione del “cammino” verso Oriente 
quelle parti dove apparisce il sole’), la partenza dalla citta che meglio ha 
organizzati i trasporti marittimi (“di Vinegia partendomy’), l’attenzione 
antropologica per etnie e civilta extraeuropee (“d’altre religioni trovai as- 
sai”), l’émagere esotizzante dei toponimi favolosi e allusivi (“per lo reame del 
Garbo cavalcando e per Baldacca, pervenni in Parione”; “io capitat feo 2 
Truffia ed in Buffia, paesi molto abitati e con gran popoli; e di qui pervenni 
in Terra di menzogna”, “tanto andai adentro, che io pervenni met infino in 
India Pastinaca’, VI, x, 38-42). Sono anche queste, malgrado l’accezione 
burlesca, figure retoriche di un repertorio ormai stereotipato, che si precisa 
sulla selezione qualitativa dei luoghi e degli spazi di interesse popolare 
(“moltitudine grande esser venuta di contadini’”, VI, x, 31). Per conferire 
uno statuto di attendibilita al réat de voyage di Frate Cipolla verso luoghi non 
visti, occorre proprio la presenza di una figura socialmente rilevante, che 
pratica quei luoghi per consuetudine professionale e nello stesso tempo con 
autentica curiosita d’apprendimento, facendone una configurazione dei 
saperi medievali. Cosi, neanche il racconto falso di Frate Cipolla puo 
esimersi dal fare esplicito rifertmento alla frequentazione del luogo esotico 
da parte del “mercatante.” Il mercante avvalla, con la sua nota attitudine di 
osservatore, l’affidabilita del resoconto di viaggio: qui diviene una sorta di 
auctoritas tesa ancora piu credibile dall’iperbole onomastica (“Saggi0”), che 
per paradosso garantisce circa la verita (“non mi lasci mentire”) dell’e- 
sperienza odeporica simulata da Frate Cipolla: 


436 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


io vi giuro per labito che 10 porto addosso che 10 vidi volare i pennati, 
cosa incredibile a chi non gli avesse veduti; ma di cid non mi lasci mentire 
Maso del Saggio, il quale gran mercatante 10 trovai la, che schiacciava noci 
e vendeva gusci a ntaghio. (VI, X, 42-43) 


Ispirati al tipico senso del realismo mercantile, 1 modi convenzionali 
della narrazione, in cui si fondono e sovrappongono il romanzesco, l’epico 
e lesotico-meraviglioso, sono allineati sulle attese di un’utenza particolar- 
mente sensibile al fascino dell’avventura. In questa prospettiva, nella quale 
occorre riconoscere al gusto popolare una vitalita non secondaria, I Reak di 
Franaa di Andrea da Barberino confermano I’irradiarsi di una produzione 
letteraria a destinazione borghese-mercantile, pur se geneticamente vinco- 
lata ad antiche fonti filo-oitaniche come la Geste Francor marciana, di cui 1 
romanzo in prosa di Andrea rappresenta una rielaborazione. E appunto per 
contrasto con questa origine cortese e aulica, si inserisce piu intimamente 
nei Read l’opzione narrativa dell’esotismo, assunta con tutto il suo reper- 
torio di geografie retoriche e tipologie odeporiche. Come é noto, il IV libro 
dei Reak corrisponde al Buovo d’Antona (“Qui comincia il quarto libro de’ 
Reali di Franza, chtamato Buovo d’Antona’”, IV, I), personaggio ben noto e 
assai caro al pubblico dell’epica, epigono del Bovo franco-veneto e piu anco- 
ra del “Rollant” dell’Entrée d’Espagne, poiché anch’esso audace viaggiatore e 
sperimentatore dell’Oriente asiatico. La situazione diegetica é€ infatti nei 
Reah assai simile a quella elaborata dai suoi illustri precedenti franco-veneti: 
anche nel romanzo del toscano Andrea, i “mercatanti” svolgono una fon- 
damentale funzione nello sviluppo narrativo (e diremmo sociologico) della 
storia, accompagnando e guidando, con la consueta esperienza, l’eroe pro- 
tagonista nel suo viaggio in mezzo al mondo: 


E andarono questi mercatanti a’ porti di Spagna, e poi a’ porti di Marocco 
nel mare di fuori dalla terra; e poi entrarono allo stretto di Gibiltauro, e 
cercarono tutt e’ mercati d’Afnca e d’Egitto e di Barut e di tutta Soma, e 
poi furono in Cipri, e indi entrarono nel mare di Setalia, e viddono 
Erminia minore, e in questa Erminia vollono andare, perché certi di loro 
erano di quello paese, e perché ha una citta che si chiama Ermenias a’ 
confini di Cilicia presso al regno Feminoro, onde furono l’Amanzone 
anticamente. Buovo gli vidde rallegrare, e domandogli: “Quanto siamo no1 
di lungi a quello paese, donde voi mi levasti?.” Disse uno de’ mercatant: 
“F’ ci € in mezzo mezzo il mondo” [...]. E cosi giunsono al porto della 
citta d’Ermenias, e Buovo vidde tanta gente in terra e tant padiglioni che 
coprivano tutta la niva del mare. (IV, VII) 


Lo splendore della civilta moresca e il fascino delle citta asiatiche — 
dove ancora é viva la memoria delle amazzoni, le bellisstme donne dell’ Asia 





EROI VERSO ORIENTE 437 


incontrate da Alessandro — si confondono in un orizzonte sognante in cut la 
dimensione magica dei paesi lontani dall’Europa genera nondimeno una 
precisa azione esterna e oggettiva, che si esplica nell’azione del protagonista, 
nel suo muoversi fisico da un sito all’altro e nella esternazione di una 
gestualita che interagisce con |’ambiente circostante. Anche in questo caso, 
il viaggio di Buovo, cosi preciso nelle sue coordinate geografiche, ci aituta a 
penetrare nell’immaginario della cultura medievale e a ricostruire un dato 
modo di pensare, nel quale il mondo esotico, un mondo alternativo se non 
sconcertante e seducente, risponde a quella esigenza di avventura antropo- 
logica avidamente consumata dai lettor1 occidentali. Né manca nei Rea& 1 
solito motivo erotico della nobile e bella dama orientale che, come la Dio- 
nés dell’Exzrée, si innamori del coraggioso paladino occidentale, il quale si 
mostra consapevole del suo fascino di straniero (“Drusiana, vinta dall’a- 
more, ando per Buovo in persona insino alla stalla, finita che fu la guostra, 
con certe damigelle”, IV, XIV). L’amore consente l’abbattimento delle 
barriere etniche e l’azzeramento dei condizionament etico-sociali, e suggella 
una sorte di cattivante dissidenza nei confronti degli ambienti di prove- 
nienza, impensabile nella coazione repressiva dell’Occidente. 

Proprio per il suo tessuto connettivo, che permette piu precise 
determinazioni di motivi rispetto alla schematica essenzialita con cui si 
affrontano 1 temi nell’epica cavalleresca, la narrativa in prosa garantisce 
Pavvicendamento di episodi paratattici, aggrunti alla trama ad identificare 
situazioni romanzesche ormai archetipe. E anche se il genere epico-ca- 
valleresco risulta apparentato alla tradizione novellistica, con la quale rivela 
una progressiva linea di convergenza proprio nella struttura affabulatoria 
con cui rappresenta l’argomento del viaggio in Oriente, il rapporto va 
sostanzialmente inteso nella similarita delle contingenze narrative. Fra can- 
tare e novella non c’é ben inteso identificazione assoluta per quanto ri- 
guarda il rispettivo sviluppo della geografia letteraria, ma ambedue insistono 
sul significato che il sopos dell’esotismo conserva, come a fievocare un’e- 
sperienza del mondo e a chiuderla nella forma apologetica della retorica. 
Basti pensare solo alle suggestive ambientazioni orientali in raccolte no- 
vellistiche del Due e Trecento, come 1 Conit di anticht cavakert, 11 Lzbro di no- 
velle, 1 Trecentonovelle,? 1 cui modello per certi versi pud essere individuato nel 
Libro dei sette savi, di origine indiana appunto, significativo per l’influenza che 
ha esercitato anche sul Decameron, soprattutto per certi procedimenti narra- 
tivi rtusati a comunicare in formule di repertorio la dicibilita dell’esperienza 


6. Appartiene all’ordine di questi testi anche I_Aventuroso Cicliano, ormai attribuibile senza 
incertezze a Bosone da Gubbio. Cfr. A. Tartaro, La prosa narrativa antica, in A. Asor Rosa (a 
cura di), Letteratura italiana, 11/2: Le forme del testo. La prosa (Torino: Einaudi, 1984), pp. 623- 
713, in part. pp. 637-85. 


438 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


odeporica. Grazie alla perizia narrativa espressa da Boccaccio, abile ma- 
nipolatore di fonti plurime e svariati modelli, nel modulo dell’esotismo si 
fissa un catalogo di znventiones funzionali allo sviluppo della fabula, le quali 
servono al pari di altri elementi e figure alla definizione del genere. Qua- 
lificare la posizione dell’esotico nel Decameron significa infatti declinare una 
risposta vantagpiosa, di per sé disincantata, senza ambizioni introspettive, 
ma in realta ricca di sollecitazioni sociali nuove e complesse, alla questione 
del meraviglioso che riacquista ora, nella seconda meta del XTV secolo, tutta 
la sua qualita romanzesca, in una costante attualizzazione dei tratti mitict. 

L’attenzione scrupolosa, anzi persino fenomenologica, per la vicenda 
del viaggio cambia non soltanto l’impostazione stilistica di passi narra- 
tivamente dinamici, ma conferisce anche maggiore spessore alle figure uma- 
ne che agiscono quella conquista di luoghi, pur non avanzando nessuna pre- 
tesa di esattezza nella descrizione geografica. Ecco dunque che il “mer- 
catante” di Boccaccio, adeguatosi per esigenze professionali a una com- 
prensibile pzefas antropologica, rifrutando la materia improvvida e inattuale 
del poema epico e della novella duecentesca — non per difetto delle influen- 
ze letterarie ma per inadeguatezza al compito sociologico che il Decameron si 
€ proposto — da vita a una nuova concezione del viaggio, distinto secondo 
piu precise determinazioni topografiche e marittime, dopo attenta lettura 
dei portolani e delle mappe cosmografiche. E poi, in quegli stessi paesi 
dell’Oriente dove si esercita il commercio, il viaggiatore finisce ancora una 
volta per esperimentare la tensione dell’eros, vertice di vita che si attinge solo 
quando si lasciano le terre cristiane. La novella di Alatiel (II, VID), figliuola 
del sultano di Babilonia mandata in sposa al re dei Garbo, conferma 
l’assegnazione dell’elemento erotico come intrinseco al livello tematico del- 
esotismo, fino a grungere a volte a una sintesi armoniosa e quasi solenne 
tra fisicita e valori mondami, dove il corpo femminile, durante il lungo 
viaggio, diventa un concreto oggetto d’affetti, senza tuttavia banalizzare 1 
presupposti ideali della casta e del lignagpio, implicitamente riconosciuti dal 
ceto subalterno dei mercanti (“l’amico mercatante”’). Malgrado I’avversita 
del fato (“lungamente trastullo della fortuna era stata”), e per l’accettazione 
un poco opportunistica ma prudente di una condivisione more uxorto, la vi- 
cenda di Alatiel non assume una dimensione di sublime grandezza che 
instaura la tragedia, né oltrepassa la misura dell’ineluttabilita del destino, ma 
si mantiene dentro un senso di sicurezza che non ha nulla dell’esemplarita 
eroica a cut il medioevo feudale aveva costretto le sue eroine: 


Poi, pochi di appresso, avendo il mercatante cipriano ogni suo fatto in 
Rodi spacciato e in Cipri volendosene tornare sopra una cocca di catalani 
che vera, domando la bella donna quello che far volesse, con cid fosse 
cosa che a lui convenisse in Cipni tornare. La donna rispose che con lui, se 
gli piacesse, volentien se ne andrebbe, sperando che [...] da lu come 





EROI VERSO ORIENTE 439 


sorella sarebbe trattata e riguardata. Il mercatante rispose che d’ogni suo 
piacere era contento: e acciO che da ogni ingiuna, che sopravenire le 
potesse avanti che in Cipri fosser, la difendesse, disse che era sua moglie. 
E sopra la nave montati, data loro una cameretta nella poppa, accio che 1 
fatti non paressero alle parole contrari, con lei in un lettuccio assai 
piccolo si dormiva. Per la qual cosa avvenne quello che né dell’un né 
dell’altro nel partir da Rodi era stato intendimento: cioé che incitandogli il 
buio e l’agio e 11 caldo del letto, le cui forze non son piccole, dimentica 
Pamista e lamor d’Antioco morto, quasi da iguali appetito tirat, 
cominciatisi a stuzzicare insieme, prima che a Baffa giugnessero, la onde 
era il cipriano, insieme fecero parentado; e a Baffa pervenuti, piu tempo 
insieme col mercante si stette. (II, VII) 


Giova osservare che la vicenda dell’eroe “borghese” si distingue da 
quella dell’eroe epico gia per le scelte esistenziali: data la sua estraneita al 
ceto aristocratico, il mercante puo in effetti esprimere una forma di espe- 
rienza popolare, piegata e quasi ridotta alla sua volonta e alla sua misura 
umana, tutt’altro che saporosa di istanze tragiche o prodigiose. In effetti, 
molti personaggi del Decameron sollevano alla cultura elevata temi congeniali 
al molto piu vasto pubblico degli c/zieraiz, vale a dire le leggende narrative e 
i muti fiabeschi cui é da sempre assuefatto. La rivoluzione culturale che il 
Decameron tutre € imnanzitutto rivoluzione sociale: la letteratura apre a un’i- 
dea di esotismo elaborata proprio all’interno della nuova classe mercantile, 
cosciente di sé e delle sue prerogative. All’ideazione degli argomenti roman- 
zeschi e amorosi si accompagna una precisa campionatura di luoghi e topo- 
nimi oltramarini (Rodi, Cipro, Candia), certo mirabila esotici ma anche spazi 
funzionalmente aperti ai traffict mercantili. A caratterizzare l’ambientazione 
geografica interviene dunque sempre |’Oriente, mentre l’avventura che vi si 
vive non € mai gratuita o casuale, non capita in maniera indiscriminata a 
chiunque. Le afose giornate del viaggio esotico si susseguono nel testo let- 
terario tappa dopo tappa, esponendo il viandante a sbandamenti incon- 
trollabili, perché appunto l’astrazione dal contesto non é possibile. L’av- 
ventura ulissesca del viaggio per freta longa non rinuncia alla mitologia nar- 
rativa dell’ascoltatore medievale, per il quale dietro l’ambiguo fascino del- 
POriente si intravede in filigrana la palus Llidinum a cui Poccidentale non rie- 
sce a sottrarsi. Nel Decameron, come in altri testi dell’epoca, il timbro dell’e- 
sotismo scopre cosi un intenzionale e complesso gioco di rapporti esterni 
alla dimensione romanzesca, per 1 quali i remoti paesi dell’Asia Minore e 
dell’Estremo Oriente rappresentano ancora una fabrica utorum o, peggio, 
una sfemptationum palaestra, secondo il colorito folclorico della polimorfica 
narrativa popolare. Né sara senza importanza notare che a partire dalla 
seconda meta del Trecento si assiste, a cominciare da certe pagine del 
Decameron, a una aspitazione di ascesa sociale da parte della classe mercan- 


440 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


tile, la quale si realizza grazie al viaggio in Oriente, la dove le distinzioni di 
ceto paiono annullarsi con maggiore disinvoltura (“a guisa di baroni 
cominciarono a vivere”). La resa puntuale di questa volonta di promozione 
si riscontra nel tono della novella di Ninetta, Magdalena e Bertella (IV, IID), 
tre sorelle di Marsiglia rispettivamente innamorate di Restagnone, Folco e 
Ughetto. Qui, accanto al tema principale degli amori a infelice fine, tro- 
viamo quello secondario della differenza di estrazione socio-economica, a 
cui si cerca di porre rimedio tramite il trasferimento dei beni in una “parte 
del mondo” dove é€ possibile “andare a vivere in lieta vita.” Leggiamone il 
brano emblematico della fuga notturna e dell’avventurosa navigazione da 
Genova all’isola di Creta: 


Venuta la notte che salire sopra la saettia dovevano, le tre sorelle, aperto 
un gran cassone del padre loro, di quello grandissima quantita di denari e 
di gioie trassono, e con esse di casa tutte e tre tacitamente uscite, secondo 
Pordine dato, i lor tre amanti che l’aspettavan trovarono; con li quali 
senza alcuno indugio sopra la saettia montate, dier de’ remi in acqua e 
andar via e senza punto rattenersi in alcun luogo la seguente sera giunsero 
a Genova, dove 1 novelli amant gioia e piacere primieramente presero del 
loro amore. E rinfrescatisi di cid che avean bisogno, andaron via, e d’un 
porto in un altro, anzi che l’ottavo di fosse, senza alcuno impedimento 
pervennero in Creti, dove grandissime e belle possessioni comperarono, 
alle quali assai vicini di Candia fecero bellissimi abitun e dilettevoli; e quivi 
con molta famiglia, con cani e con uccelli e con cavalli, in conviti e in feste 
e in gioia con le lor donne 1 piu contenti uomini del mondo a guisa di 
baroni cominciarono a vivere. (IV, III) 


Il trasferimento “protocoloniale” ha dunque come immediato vantaggio 
la salita al ceto superiore. Lasciata l’Europa alle spalle, una volta stabilitosi 
nelle terre mediorientali, il mercante pud finalmente diventare un aristo- 
cratico. E nel passo di Boccaccio gli status symbols della nobilta sono non a 
caso elencati in maniera minuziosa: 1 numerosi servitori (“molta famiglia’), 
il parco degli animali (“con cani e con uccelli e con cavalli’”), la mondanita 
(“an conviti e in feste”). Certo qui l’edonismo dei parties annuncia per con- 
trasto gli eventi tragici che concluderanno la novella raccontata da Pam- 
pinea: il destino delle tre sorelle € gia segnato, scontato dalla natura irre- 
golare del loro comportamento, che merita la punizione per non aver ti- 
spettato le norme stabilite dal patto di classe. E val dunque la pena di chie- 
dersi che significato abbia l’esotismo nella immanente tragicita della novella. 
Il dato ideologico piu importante resta anche nel testo di Boccaccio la co- 
scienza che l’eroe cessa di intervenire quando la stabilita sociale si sfalda e 


7. Cosi anche nella novella di Chichibio (VI, IV, 4), dove si dice che messer Currado “vita 
cavalleresca tenendo continuamente in cani e in uccelli s’é dilettato’’. 


EROI VERSO ORIENTE 441 


vien meno: nel caso del Decameron, alla prova della vita la risposta del malva- 
gio non differisce qualitativamente dalla risposta del generoso; il protago- 
nista ha sempre la sua grandezza che affascina e seduce, spesso ridotta a 
puro gioco narrativo, ma rappresenta comunque lo sfogo di una tenstone 
che sentiamo vibrate e che si € accumulata all’interno della civilta occi- 
dentale, strutturata sulla base di un rigoroso ordine gerarchico. L’apertura 
all’Oriente, vissuta in prima persona, rappresenta una opportunita, forse 
illusoria, di capovolgere la situazione: questo tessuto psicologico, cosi sa- 
pientemente calcolato, domina e governa gran parte della narrativa boc- 
caccesca, fino a determinarne talvolta il significato. 

Proprio per questa via il Decameron riesce a interpretare valori e istanze 
collettive, meritando in pieno la qualifica di classico letterario. Ma nella ne- 
laborazione di quelle istanze non puo evitare di costruire un significato radi- 
calmente nuovo dell’intera materia esotica, non commensurabile con la po- 
sizione che essa aveva nell’epica cavalleresca pregressa, cioé in totale estra- 
neita cronologica e spaziale. Proprio perché la si vuole adeguata a un’opera 
attuale, la “funzione” esotica trova la sua validita offrendosi come una sorta 
di “fabula” mitico-avventurosa aperta a nuovi sensi, antropologici piuttosto 
che romanzeschi, in funzione di una visione etico-politica non partico- 
laristica né umiliata dalle esigenze delle guerre religiose contro l’islam. La 
trasvalutazione dell’esotico in una realta pi quotidiana e “mercantesca” 
conduce non solo al superamento della morale dipendente dalla Crociata, 
ma anche a un senso di responsabilita affatto nuovo, che trova nel Decame- 
ron le sue premesse pit consapevoli e coerenti. Si spiega cosi la persistenza 
delle trame esotizzanti fino a meta Cinquecento, rese piu stabili e consuete 
dall’intersezione di generi come la novella e il poema cavalleresco, nei quali 
la parabola narrativa del misterioso Oriente segue un tracciato evolutivo 
plurisecolare. E il racconto del viaggio verso Est — autentico prodromo del 
tour finalizzato a una piu smaliziata éducation sentimentale — sembra per un 
certo periodo destinato a divenire un’occasione di sensualita (si pensi al Fy- 
rioso), da ageiungere alla ricca corrente erotica che serpeggia in buona parte 
della letteratura medievale. In Oriente il protagonista pare dimenticare l’om- 
bra della colpa, e anche quando é passato il momento in cui il peccato 
sfacciatamente trionfa (episodio di Ruggiero nell’isola di Alcina ne é 
’esempio piu cospicuo), l’eroe dimostra di avere acquisito una nuova di- 
mensione psicologica, e di sapere meglio controllare le sue convinzion1 mo- 
ralistiche, attenuandone le severe rigidita. 

Fedele allo schema del Decameron, la novellistica quattrocentesca as- 
simila il personaggio del “mercatante” quale figura narrativa del viaggio, alla 
quale si riesce ora a dare una giustificazione storica che la rende p1u vicina al 
pubblico dei lettori. Vero é che i cambiamenti di contenuto si com- 
prendono solo a partire dalla prospettiva ideologica della borghesia mercan- 


442 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


tile, grunta nella prima meta del XV secolo a occupare posizioni rag- 
guardevoli nella piramide sociale della civilta europea. Nel Novelino di Ma- 
succio Salernitano (pseudonimo di Tommaso Guardatt) il mercante con- 
serva la sua iconografia aperta e multiforme, e appare come il paladino del 
ceto borghese che conquista (dunque, una con-quéte) ai traffic’ mercantili 
nuove terre esotiche ancora da colonizzare. Il transfert, qui, é evidente e di- 
mostra l’appropriazione del tradizionale modello cavalleresco: la precisa (e 
forse parodica) allusione é alla quéte del bellator feudale, campione di un Me- 
dioevo cortese e clericale, che conquista alla fede cristiana ignote terre da 
evangelizzare. Ad onta dei numerosi adattamenti cui la materia tradizionale 
viene sottoposta, dove neppure mancano libere aggiunte permesse da una 
riscrittura assai moderna dei modelli precedents, il Novelino rende implicita 
al racconto la prospettiva geografica dell’esotismo, conferendo alle avven- 
ture in Oriente un piu intimo legame con le esigenze dei lettori contem- 
poranei. Sotto molti rispetti, il disinvolto rruso di Masuccio ottenne una 
vasta eco negli scritti dei narratori successivi, fino al Bandello e allo Strapa- 
rola, grazie in particolare alle motivazioni di costume e alla garanzia di un 
certo realismo. Malgrado resti sullo sfondo scenografico l’accezione morali- 
stica (ma eccitante) di un Oriente lascivo e dedito al vizio (‘“‘lievemente e 
senza ragione, solo da la libidine si era lassata trascorrere a fare tanto enor- 
missimo eccesso’, III, xxi), il Noveddno riesce largamente a rimodellare le vi- 
cende piu o meno immaginarie degli eroi eponimi che la tradizione gli con- 
segna, talvolta addirittura corrompendole con grossolani interventi, frutto 
della fantasia del suo autore, flessibile pero, come si é detto, alle aspettative 
di un pubblico socialmente inquadrato. Proprio per questa ragione, le pre- 
ferenze narrative di Masuccio si accompagnano sovente a strampalati itine- 
rari nei paesi musulmani, dove il protagonista escogita persino l’espediente 
astuto del travestimento, cosi da potersi meglio acclimatare e camuffare tra 
le popolazioni locali, divenendo partecipe di riti e abiti comportamentali 
tipici degli autoctom, e naturalmente cedendo al tenero fascino dell’imman- 
cabile fanciulla, superbo esemplare della sua razza, della quale egli si fa 
motivato cortegpiatore: 


Con soi cari compagni verso Barbaria drizzo il cammino. E fra pochi di 
gionto al prepostato luogo, tirato il legno a terra in una spiaggia circa dieci 
migha di longi a Tripuli [...], avendosi fatta da prima crescere la barba, e 
tutto de vestimenti monschi travestitose, sapendo ottimamente la lingua 
[...], da’ sot compagni se diparti. E como colui che troppo bene sapeva il 
paese con le circustanzie de la terra insiemi, se ne ando ad un fiumicello, 
assai presso la citta, dove de molte femine imbiancheggiavano le tele, 
estimando che la turca, da la quale credea essere amato, per acqua e per 
altre oportunita de casa fusse li recapitata. (III, XXII) 


EROI VERSO ORIENTE 443 


Lo schematismo narrativo, nella sua spoglia essenzialita, non compro- 
mette il risultato diegetico, che a questo punto puo costituire l’ennesima al- 
lettante incubazione nell’immaginario collettivo. Alla carovana saracena in 
viaggio per la Turchia, l’Arabia o I’India si unisce il cristiano che ha matu- 
rato il desiderio di abbandonare |’Occidente, forse alla ricerca di genti sco- 
nosciute che abitano vette inaccessibili, asseragliate in luoghi impervi, alle 
quali assimilarsi in virti di una paradossale integrazione che si mostra ca- 
pace di osservare le regole della comunita indigena. Forse suo malgrado, 
Yautore del Novelino riesce ad attribuire gratificanti connotazioni a un oriz- 
zonte esotico che gradualmente si invera, smarrendo i contenuti onirici e 
meravigliosi. Resta tuttavia l’auspicata avventura erotica, nflessa in resoconti 
volutamente confusi e reticenti, ma dove I’allusivita ci guadagna. Masuccio é 
insomma sul punto di riscattare la topica piu trita e frustrante, apparecchiata 
gia prima dell’urto innovativo provocato dal Decameron, pervenendo a una 
certa parvenza di realta e a qualche argomento plausibile di supporto. C’e da 
domandarsi nondimeno perché un novellatore smaliziato e tutt’altro che 
sprovveduto come Masuccio si sia lasciato trascinare da un tipo di narrativa 
tutto sommato inadeguato alle aspettative, laddove avrebbe potuto essere 
invece l’artefice della novita, e godere dunque di un imprevisto e non prov- 
visorio successo. Infaticabile indagatore di vecchi libri di novelle, Masuccio 
trasferisce definitivamente all’interno del Nove/Zno, nonostante sia incorso in 
pit. di una confusione, il ricco materiale dell’esotismo, indizio sicuro di 
storie persuasive e attraenti, imponendo di conseguenza la radicale revisione 
degli stereotipi piu Ovvi. 

Ulteriori, espliciti segni di tale spinta narrativa si colgono appunto nella 
novella XXXIII (“I due amanti senesi”), una delle pid fortunate del 
Novelino, fonte di Luigi Da Porto e di Bandello e poi, tramite questi e 1 
Giraldi Cinzio, di Shakespeare per il dramma veronese di Romeo e Gtu- 
lietta. La storia é tutta imperniata sul viaggio in Medioriente comptuto da 
“un giovane de buona famiglia, costumato e bello, Mariotto Mignanelli 
nominato,” il quale “deliberd non che da Toscana ma da Italia se assentare, 
e in Alessandria andarsene, ove un suo zio avea, chiamato ser Nicolo Mi- 
gnanelli, omo de gran trafico e multo conosciuto mercatante” (IV, XXxIII). 
E quando I’amata di Mariotto, “una ligiadra giovenetta chiamata Ganozza,” 
decide di raggiungerlo in Egitto, anch’essa si imbarca su un vascello 
mercantile (“maritimi viagi [...] per move occorence de’ mercantt’’), 
finalmente “in Alessandria passando” (IV, Xxxill), a coronare il suo sogno 
d’amore. Nel caso di questa novella, l’esotismo rappresenta solo un acces- 
sorio scenografico che serve da ornamento estetico alla descrizione am- 
bientale: ma esso costituisce nello stesso tempo un motivo assodato e in- 
controvertibile per stabilire ’identita di una vicenda sentimentale che cerca 
la sua risoluzione lontano dall’Europa. L’uniformita del motivo esotico, del 


444 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


resto, dipende da quella particolare antropologia d’estrazione borghese cui 
si é fatto piu volte niferimento, per la quale l’immagine positiva dell’Oriente 
Si esprime pienamente nella curiosa intenzione di indagare le abitudini in 
apparenza piu meritevoli di riprovazione, ma non percid immorali e licen- 
ziose. Non c’é dunque da meravigliarsi se il viandante medievale registra in 
forma scrupolosa casi di antagonismo comportamentale, 0 episodi etica- 
mente censurabili che vedono uomini e donne divenire facili prede della 
sfrenatezza dei sensi. 

La pittoresca immagine che informa sulle civilta orientali si serve di 
stereotipi mentali che sembrano basarsi sull’incapacita di accettare con- 
fessioni religiose o dogmi incompatibili col cristianesimo. Sotto questo 
aspetto, la novellistica “borghese” contribuisce a stabilire la veridicita di 
certe accuse, dipingendo spesso il moro o il saraceno o il turco come indivi- 
duo gaglioffo, proclive per natura a delinquere, ebete e licenzioso, destinato 
per forza di cose a commettere atti di malaffare come il ladrocinio e il ra- 
pimento (e/ dadrén dell’antica epica spagnola), oppure a svolgere l’timmondo 
mestiere del mercante di schiavi. D’altra parte, questa funzione ammonitrice 
che l’esotismo acquista nel Noveléno, grazie al valore educativo dell’in- 
stancabile confronto con l’Occidente cristiano, si intravvede appunto nel 
topos romanzesco della “cattura,” di cui resta vittima il viagpiatore europeo 
da parte di crudeli briganti saraceni. Gia presente nel vasto repertorio die- 
getico del Decameron, esso viene riproposto da Masuccio, in maniera tec- 
nicamente semplificata, nella novella di Guidotto (XLVI), “che salito in 
uno mercantile ligno, essendo vicino a Faro, fu preso da certe fuste di Mori 
e menato a Tunist” (V, XLVIII); 0 ancora, in formule analoghe, nella novella 
del “disaventurato Ioanni” (XXXIX) giovane “multo esperto ne l’arte mari- 
naresca e anco ne la mercanzia,” anch’egli “preso da certe fuste de Mori,” e 
poi “per ischiavo ad un mercante tunisino venduto [...] e in cattivita in Tu- 
nisi detenuto” (IV, xxxrx). La prigionia e la schiaviti sono inconvenienti 
che il viagpatore occidentale deve nicitere in conto quando si accinge a 
salpare per l’avventuroso Oriente. Di questa gente pericolosa, dedita alla 
pteda e alla rapina, incapace di obbedire a qualsiasi precetto, disposta a me- 
schini traffici pur di ottenere una ricompensa, la letteratura romanzesca of- 
fre esempi molteplici, perlopia in distonica coesistenza con la dimensione 
solennemente eroica dello sventurato protagonista. 

E anche qui la problematica sociale é assente o irrilevante: nondimeno 
nell’episodio del rapimento la seduzione del male gioca sul discrimine fra 
Occidente e Oriente, fra cristianesimo e islam, insomma. II salutare ribrezzo 
che certi casi suscitano nei lettori europei comporta un risvolto etico che 
marca la differenza con gli incivili abitanti di certe regioni del mondo: rebus 
stc stantibus il giudizio morale sulla loro condotta non puo che essere 
pessimo, e la letteratura contrappone cosi in piena coscienza due nature 


EROI VERSO ORIENTE 445 


umane fortemente distinte, per le quali la bilancia delle colpe e delle pene ha 
fondamenti giuridici tutt’altro che affini. 

La problematica del rapporto fra individuo occidentale e comunita 
orientale, in particolare quella che nasce dalla situazione amorosa, non sem- 
pre é destinata a sfociare in soluzioni tragiche. Nella narrativa a destinazione 
popolare, accade anzi talvolta che si determini una solidarieta, pur se 
involontaria o fortuita, una convergenza di intenzioni avente come conse- 
guenza la sorte felice del protagonista. Per il resto, l’esotico continuava ad 
apparire quello che era sempre stato: un mondo di terre ricche e prospere, 
dove abbondavano le spezie piu pregiate, popolato da genti strane 
Osservanti norme inconcepibili. I] viaggio letterario nobilita in forme 
stilistiche l’esperienza reale dell’avventura sui mari e negli empori d’Oriente 
che il ceto mercantile dell’Italia del Tre e Quattrocento viveva come con- 
quista di nuovi spazi intellettuali, poi traslati sugli orizzonti dell’immaginano 
e dell’ideazione affabulatoria. I dati narrativi sono percid quanto mai rigidi e 
predefiniti: punto di partenza e punto di arrivo di ogni vicenda sono 
scontati, e non resta da accertare che la vaneta degli accadimenti, propiziati 
dal corso irrazionale degli eventi piuttosto che dalla corrispondenza fra 
avventura e premio consolatorio. Ed ecco allora che fra la miseria spirituale 
dell’ignaro viaggiatore europeo e l’ignoto, imprevedibile comportamento 
dell’altro, qualificato come pagano perché alieno dalla corretta dottrina 
cristiana, l’esotismo assume la configurazione di un filtro ideologico in 
grado di mediare esperienze morali e psicologiche eterogenee. Appunto per 
Yeccezionalita dell’evento inconsueto, ma non perciO inatteso, che l’am- 
bientazione esotica lascia presagire, il Zopos del viaggio in Oriente si rivela de- 
positario di una sostanziale coscienza del destino dell’uomo, restio all’azione 
solo davanti alla imperscrutabile volonta divina, ma pronto a scendere nel- 
l’agone terreno degli istinti e degli impulsi, a patto che il ricorso tardivo al 
ravvedimento morale non pregiudichi le sue poche opere meritevoli di 
duraturo ricordo. 

Non deve pertanto sfugpire, neanche a una indagine necessariamente 
limitata a pochi testi, ma ordinata secondo la continuita dell’immaginario 
collettivo, il nesso che riconduce la narrativa quattro-cinquecentesca 
all’esotismo, visibile stilisticamente nella rielaborata mappa del “viaggio te- 
stuale” di continuo replicato durante l’intero arco del Rinascimento. No- 
nostante le scoperte geografiche colombiane, e la conseguente apertura di 
spazi territoriali immensamente estesi, la vecchia immagine dell’Oriente 
persiste ancora intatta fino alla meta del XVI secolo, sostenuta dai generi 
della novella e del poema cavalleresco. Talvolta con ricorso alle formule 
retoriche piu sofisticate messe a punto dalla fase umanistica, il motivo 
esotico ricorre con una certa insistenza, legittimato dalle attese di una 
utenza resa assai piu larga dall’introduzione della stampa, la quale dimostra 


446 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


ormai una consuetudine con testi in cui prevalgono imtrecci odeporici e 
romanzeschi, ramificati entro un perimetro geografico di ampia latitudine, 
ma pur sempre indicabile sommariamente nell’area territoriale interessata 
al’espansione dei traffict commerciali. Sin dagli ultimi decenni del 
Duecento, tutto lo schema narrativo dell’esotismo dispone dunque di una 
serie di trame avventurose da imserire in un piu ampio “discorso” ro- 
manzesco, il quale si articola fino a meta Quattrocento sulla coincidenza fra 
enunciazione letteraria e pubblico. La saldatura, come si € visto, avviene in 
prima istanza all’interno del ceto mercantile, solidale per ovvie motivazioni 
professionali alle azioni dei personaggi in viaggio attraverso piu oO meno 
sconosciute terre orientali. In definitiva, inteso come vettore novellistico, 
Pesotismo conosce una incidenza sociale e una mobilita affabulatoria sco- 
nosciute ad altri elementi topici, ricavandone una risonanza plurisecolare e 
un guadagno ideologico estremamente specifico per la problematica storico- 
politica del tempo. E ancora oggi, forse, in un’epoca in Cui si profila all’o- 
rizzonte la minaccia di nuovi conflitti tra Occidente ed Oriente, resi ancora 
piu flagranti dalla contrapposizione religiosa tra la tradizione ebraico-cri- 
stiana e la civilta musulmana,’ l’idea di tolleranza e accettazione del diverso 
che il modulo esotico ha esplicato nel corso dei secoli, senza peraltro pre- 
scindere da una specifica conoscenza delle alterita, non concepita su una 
linea di astratta superiorita, ma calata nella concretezza dei processi com- 
portamentali, senza disconoscere la fecondita di culture alternative a quella 
europea né l’eterogenesi dei fini propagandistici, ancora oggi, in definitiva, 
potrebbe insegnare molto a chiunque si volga a indagare il rapporto ine- 
ludibile tra attivita intellettuali e strutture del potere. 


Universita degh Studi dt Bologna 
Opere citate 


Barbenno, Andrea da. I Reak & Franca, a cura di G. Vandelli e G. Gambarin. Bani: 
Laterza, 1947 

Boccaccio, Giovanni. Decameron, a cura di V. Branca. Torino: Einaudi, 1992, 2 vol. 

Entrée d’Espagne in A. Viscardi et al. (a cura di), Le Ongim. Testi latini, itaham, 
provenzah e francottakani. Milano-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1956: 1136-1185. 

Folengo, Teofilo. Ba/dus, a cura di E. Faccioli. Tonno: Einaudi, 1989. 

Salernitano, Masuccio. I/ NovelZno, a cura di A. Mauro. Bani: Laterza, 1940. 

Varvaro, Alberto. Letterature romanz del Medtoevo. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1985. 


8. Mi si permetta di rinviare, in conclusione, a due articoli apparsi sulla stampa non spe- 
cialistica, meritevoli di essere meditati con attenzione nella prospettiva fin qui delineata: P. 
Citati, “Ebrei e Arabi in pace”, (La Repubblica, 14 dicembre 2002), pp. 40-41 (con anti- 
cipazione in prima pagina); e J. Le Goff, “Medioevo. Cosi é nata la pace nei tempi piu but” 
(La Repubbhica, 8 gennaio 2003), p. 37. 


MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations 
on Travel (1995-2002) 


The following bibliography lists all dissertations, completed at American and 
Canadian universities, written about travel literature from 1995 to 2002; it 
continues the work done by Risa K. Nystrom in “A Bibliography of North- 
American Dissertations on Travel (1961-1995),” published in Anak d Ttakanstica 
(14 [1995]: 663-84). The bibliography was compiled from searching ProQuest 
Digital Dissertations, the electronic version of Dassertation Abstracts International. 
The format for each entry ts a number which will be used for the indexing, the 
name of the author of the dissertation, the dissertation title, the adviser’s name, 
and the institution where the dissertation was completed. The bibliography 
is arranged in chronological order by the year in which the degree was granted. 
This bibliography, written in October 2002, was updated in March 2003 to include 
as many of the 2002 dissertation titles as possible. While searching in Dzgetal 
Dissertations for these titles, I found other titles from earlier years that I now 
wish to include; these titles have been appended to the list of the year when 
the dissertation was defended, with a letter after the number 

For my search terms, I used the following keywords: ¢ravel, travel writing, 
travel Literature, travel accounts, journey, voyage, and pilerimage. Following Nystrom, 
I limited the titles to those dissertations that focus on the idea of travel as 
expressed in written form, whether factual or fictional, as well as those exploring 
(and sometimes expanding) the conventions of the genre of travel writing. 

In terms of trends, I would like to point out that more dissertations are 
written on nineteenth-century authors than on authors from other time periods. 
Also, most of the authors examined in these dissertations come from the United 
States or Britain; as Nystrom noted, this fact is probably the result of the 
dissertations having been written at American or Canadian institutions. A 
comparison of Nystrom’s list of writers cited (those mentioned in at least three 
dissertations) with the list at the end of this bibliography shows that, although 
many authors, such as Defoe and Twain, continue to be studied, the canon 
continues to expand—especially in regards to women writers. 

It is difficult to follow the categorizing of another person, so I have created 
my own, based on Nystrom’s categories. I have shortened the list of critical 
categories in order to have room to assign a title to two categories, and I have 
reorganized the fictional and non-fictional genres. I wanted to indicate in some 
way the complexity of the dissertations because most do not easily fit under 
just one critical topic. For example, a dissertation that studies one or more women 
writers is making a critical point beyond the fact of gender categorization. Also, 


448 MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


many dissertations compare authors from different time periods or countries 
of origin; some dissertations compare the fictional and non-fictional writings 
by the same author. Indeed, the genre of travel literature implies some type 
of comparison in that the author of the work is consciously or unconsciously 
comparing his or her own country with the country in which he or she 1s traveling. 
This analysis of similarities and differences is often tied to an exploration of 
the author’s own identity or the identity of a particular country, religion, or ethnic 
group (or a combination of these); the notion of alterity is thus an essential part 
of all travel writing. Therefore, I have often indexed a particular title in two 
categories listed under critical issues and topics. I have done my best to place 
all dissertations into a time frame, country of origin and destination, and in a 
genre, as well as into a critical category, because I am working from an 
abstract—or sometimes from only the title—the information 1s as accurate as 
it can be without an examination of the entire dissertation. 

In conclusion, this bibliography is proof that the genre of travel literature 
continues to be the focus of scholarly interest and that the canon is expanding. 
Given this diversity—of authors, works, and critical issues—it may be difficult 
to agree on a definition of the genre, but I hope that this bibliography can 
contribute to the discussion. 


1995 (cont.) 

270. Arbelaeza, Maria Soledad. “Mexico in the Nineteenth Century through British 
and North American Travel Accounts.” (Steve Stein) University of Miami. 

271. Beach, Charles Franklyn. “Pilgrimage Patterns in George MacDonald’s “Lilith” 
and Charles Williams’ ‘Descent into Hell.”’ Baylor University. 

272. Brawley, LisaC. “Fugitive Nation: Slavery, Travel and Technologies of American 
Identity, 1830-1860.” (Lauren Berlant) University of Chicago. 

273. Dickinson, Sara. “Imagining Space and the Self: Russian Travel Writing and 
its Narrators, 1762-1825.” (William Mills Todd IIT) Harvard University. 

274. En-nehas, Jamal. “Laurens van der Post’s Ventures to the Interior: A Study in 
Travel, Cultural Quests, and Self-Exploration.” (R. H. Cockburn) University 
of New Brunswick. 

275. Harrington, Susan Tetlow. “British Waiters in Tropical Africa, 1936-1985: Cultural 
Crossroads in the Travel and Fictional Works of Elspeth Huxley, Graham: Greene 
and V. S. and Shiva Naipaul.” (John Russell) University of Maryland, College 
Park. 

276. Holcomb, Gary Edward. “Writing Travel in Anglophone Caribbean Literature: 
Claude McKay, Siva Naipaul, and Jamaica Kincaid.” (T. V. Reed) Washington 
State University. 

277. Ng, Maria Noelle. “Cultural Habits: The Travel Writing Of Isabella Bird, Max 
Dauthendey and Ai Wu, 1850-1930.” (Eva-Marie Kroller) University of Bntish 
Columbia. 

278. Ohnesorg, Stefanie. “ “They Travel Abroad and Find Themselves’: A New 
Interpretation of Oriental Travel Accounts by Nineteenth Century Women in 
the Context of the History of Travel Literature.” (Trudis E. Goldsmith-Reber) 


A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NORTH-AMERICAN DISSERTATIONS 449 


279: 


280. 


281. 


1996 
282. 


283. 


284. 


285. 
286. 
287. 
288. 
289. 


290. 


291: 
292. 
293: 
294. 
295. 
296. 
297: 


298. 


McGill University. 

Plonien, Klaus. “Re-mapping the World” Travel Literature of Weimar Germany.” 
(Jochen Schulte-Sasse) University of Minnesota. 

Willen, Matthew. “Composing Mountaineering: The Personal Narrative and 
the Production of Knowledge in the Alpine Club of London and the Appalachian 
Mountain Club, 1858-1900.” University of Pittsburgh. 

Wnght, Sara Bird. “Edith Wharton’s Travel Writing: The Making of a 
Connoisseur.” (Richard S. Lowry) College of William and Mary. 


Bossieau, Tracey Jean. “The African Adventures of May French-Sheldon: A 
Critical Cultural Study of an Imperial Feminist.” State University of New York 
at Binghamton. 

Bouanam, Ali. “The Kabash in the American Imagery: A Study of the 
Representation of Morocco in American Travel Narratives, Fiction, and Film.” 
(Jamie Barlowe) University of Toledo. 

Colbert, Benjamin. “ ‘Strange Truths in Undiscovered Lands’: P. B. Shelley and 
the Literature of Travel.” (Frederick Burwick) University of California, Los 
Angeles. 

Conrad, Elisa Ruth. “New World, New Wnting? The Rhetoric of Novelty in 
French Renaissance Travel Narrative.” (Mary B. McKinley) University of Virginia. 
Fish, Cheryl J. “Going Mobile: The Body at Work in Black and White Women’s 
Travel Narratives, 1841-1857.” (Jane Marcus) City University of New York. 
Hanson, Richard Harris. “Manifestations of Fear Moby Dick: A Case Study.” 
(Donald Ringe) University of Kentucky. 

Harper, Lila Marz. “Solitary Travelers: Nineteenth-Century Women’s Travel 
Narratives.” University of Oregon. 

Hollinger, Douglas Lloyd. “The Literature of Travel Advice in England, 1560- 
1700.” (Alan C. Shepard; Linda K. Hughes) Texas Christian University. 
Kim, Ui Rak. “The Lasting Quest for a New Destination: The Myth Explored 
in Works by James Fenimore Cooper, Henry David Thoreau, Nathaniel 
Hawthorne, Mark Twain, and Henry James.” (John Caldwell Guilds) University 
of Arkansas. 

Makowiecka, Maria Hanna. “Women’s Departures: Rewriting Voyage / Rethinking 
Female Travel ‘Récits’.” (Fred J. Nichols) City University of New York. 
Mercer. Lorraine Susan Gallicchio. “Skirting Traditions: Travel Texts of Three 
Nineteenth-Century Women Writers.” University of Oregon. 

Olson, Jeanne Ann. “Writing the Wild West: Travel Narratives of the Late 
Nineteenth Century Tourist.” (Kathleen M. Sands) Arizona State University. 
Pagh, Nancy. “At Home Afloat: Gender and Domesticity in Northwest Coast 
Marine Travel.” (Laurence Ricole) University of British Columbia. 

Park, Hyungji. “The Empire Within: Masculinity and Colonial Travel in the 
Victorian Novel.” (U. C. Knoepflmacher, Elaine Showalter) Princeton University. 
Risse, Marielle R. “Abroad Again: Explorations Within the Genre of Travel 
Wnting.” (Michael Beard) University of North Dakota. 

Rodney, Paul Wayne. “Travel and Maps of Identity in English Narratives, 1719- 
1850.” (Marlon Ross) University of Michigan. 

Rudolph, Deborah Mane. “Literary Innovation and Aesthetic Tradition in Travel 


450 


299. 


300. 


300a. 


300b. 


300c. 


1997 
301. 


301. 


303. 


304. 


305. 


306. 


307. 
308. 
309. 


310. 


311. 


S12 


S13, 


MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


Writing of the Southern Sung: A Study of Fan Ch’eng-ta’s ‘Wy ch’uan lu.” 
(Stephen H. West) University of California, Berkeley. 

Simpson, David Mark. “Between Panic and Rapture: Travel and the Politics 
of Mobility in the United States, 1831-1911.” (Janice Radway) Duke University. 
Teale, Tamara M. “The Liberty-Genocide Paradox: Amencan Indians in European 
and American Travel Literature, 1795-1991.” State University of New York 
at Stony Brook. 

Hulan, Renee. “Representig the Canadian North: Stones of Gender, Race, and 
Nation.” (Robert Lecker) McGill University. 

Laughlin, Charles Andrew. “Narrating the Nation: The Aesthetics of Historical 
Experience in Chinese Reportage Literature, 1919-1966.” (David Der-Wei Wang) 
Columbia University. 

Monin, Karen Marie. “Gender, Impenalism, and the Wester Amencan Landscapes 
of Victorian Women Travelers, 1874-1897.” (David Wishart) University of 
Nebraska. 


Dee, Edward Martn. “The Travel to the Past in Twentieth-Century Anglo- 
American Drama.” (Daniel Gerould) City University of New York. 

Dietz, Maribel. “Travel, Wandering and Pilgrimage in late Antiquity and the 
Early Middle Ages.” Princeton University. 

Gabaude, Florence. “Expérience de l’espace de l’identité; femmes en voyage: 
Mme. De Staél, Flora Tristan et Sumone de Beauvoir.” (Claude Pichois) Vanderbilt 
University. 

Garrett, Paula Kathryn. “Prodigal Daughters and Pilgrims in Petticoats: Grace 
Greenwood and the Tradition of American Women’s Travel Writing.” (Carol 
Mattingly) Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College. 
Geriguis, Lora Edmuster. “Bows Without Arrows: The Role of ‘Native Agency’ 
in the Travel Narratives of Daniel Defoe and Other English Texts, 1668-1790.” 
(Carole Fabricant) University of California, Riverside. 

Kabulis, Jeanne Marie. “Transforming Generic Paradigms: Flora Tristan’s 
Interrogation of Autobiography, the Novel and Travel Narrative.” (Benedicte 
Monicat) Pennsylvania State University. 

Keefe, Carolyn Jewett. “On the Road: Exploring Travel and Travel Wnting 
in Composition Studies.” (Sue Carter Keefe) Bowling Green State University. 
Klein, Christina. “Cold War Orientalism: Musicals, Travel Narratives, and 
Middlebrow Culture in Postwar America.” (Michael Denning) Yale University. 
La Framboise, Lisa Natalie. “Travelers in Skirts: Women and English-language 
Travel Writing in Canada.” (I. S. MacLaren) University of Alberta. 
Lockwood, Anne M. “Voyagers Out of the Harem Within: British Women Travel 
Waiters in the Middle East.” (Mary Ellis Gibson) University of North Carolina 
at Greensboro. 

Marrs, Lu Ann. “Hester Thrale Piozzi and the Artof Travel.” (Albrecht Strauss) 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 

McLeer, Karen A. “A Prescription for Double Vision: Reading Forster’s Italian 
Novels as Travel Literature.” (Richard Peterson) Southern Illinois University 
at Carbondale. 

Rummell, Kathryn Ann. “Defoe and the Significant Others: Colonial Encounters 


A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NORTH-AMERICAN DISSERTATIONS 451 


314. 


515. 


316. 


316a. 


316b. 


1998 
317: 


317. 


319: 


320. 


321: 


a22: 


323. 


324. 


325. 


326. 


321. 


328. 


in Defoe’s Travel Fictions.” (Thomas Stumpf) University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill. 

Schweizer, Bernard Arthur. “Political Travelers: The Ideological Functions of 
English Travel Wnting in the 1930s.”’ (Mananna Torgovnick) Duke University. 
Teng, Emma Jinhua. “Travel Wnting and Colonial Collecting: Chinese Travel 
Accounts of Taiwan from the Seventeenth Through Nineteenth Centuries.” 
(Stephen Owen) Harvard University. 

Yoes, Catherine Elizabeth. “Time Travel in Anglo-American Literature, 1859- 
1900.” (Jenny Franchot) University of California, Berkeley. 

Formichella, Annamarie B. “Roman Fever: Domesticity and Nationalism in 
Nineneteenth-Century American Women’s Wnting,” (Elizabeth Ammons) Tufts 
University. 

Nishime, LeiLani Linda. “Creating Race: Genre and Cultural Construction of 
Asian-American Identity.” (Stephen Sumida) University of Michigan. 


Cavalier, Philip Anthony Acree. “Ethnography, Passing, and the Construction 
of Racial and Cultural Identities: Henry James, Pauline Hopkins, and Northern 
Travel Wnting.” (Neil Schmitz) State University of New York at Buffalo. 
Clark, Rex Marvin. “Perspectives on Technology in Eighteenth-Century 
Encyclopedias, Travel Literature, and Utopian Fiction.” (Herbert Knust) 
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 

E]-Shihibi, Fathi A. “Travel Genre in Arabic Literature: A Selective Literary 
and Historical Study.” (Herbert Mason) Boston University. 

Hachmeister, Gretchen Lee. “Approaching Italy: Goethe’s Itakenische Reise and 
Its Reception by Eichendorff, Platen and Heine.” (Jeffrey L. Sammons) Yale 
University. 

Hickey, Kevin M. “Tropics of Travel: The Place of Movement in Nineteenth- 
Century British and Twentieth-Century Afncan and Afro-diasporic (travel) 
Literatures.” (Helen Regueiro Elam) State University of New York at Albany. 
Kalinowska-Blackwood, Izabela. “Between East and West: Polish and Russian 
Nineteenth-Century Travel to the Orient.” (Vladimir E. Alexandrov; Tomas 
Venclova) Yale University. 

Prada, Ana Rebeca. “ “Travel Does Not Transform, It Enriches or Perverts’: 
The Narrative of Jesus Urzagast..”” (Regina Harrison) University of Maryland, 
College Park. 

Sampson, Anne Thomas. “Art as Askesis: The Renaissance Voyage from Illusion 
to Vision.” (Bruce M. Cole) Indiana University. 

Smith, Amy Elizabeth. “Private Letters, Public Narratives: Epistolary Travel 
Writing in Eighteenth-Century Bnitain.” (Robert D. Hume) Pennsylvania State 
University. 

Viera, Gregory Curtis. “ “The Nameless Force at Play’: The Psychology of Travel 
in the Writings of Henry James.” (Ronald Gottesman) University of Southern 
California. 

Ward, Adrienne. “China in Seventeenth- and Eighteenth-Century Italy: Travel 
Literature, Scholarly /Reformist Writings, Theater.” (Stefania Buccini) University 
of Wisconsin, Madison. 

Wheeler, Laura Scavuzzo. “ ‘In Censure of his Seeming’: External Marking, 
Fashion and Travel in the English Renaissance.” (Joseph Dane) University of 


452 


PACD 


329a. 


329b. 
329¢. 
1999 
330. 
331. 
332. 


goo. 


334. 


355. 


336. 
551. 


338. 


359. 


340. 


341. 
342. 
343. 


344. 


MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


Southern California. 

Zagrodmik, Karen Veronica. “Voyages of the Unknown, Voyages of the Self: 
Women in Early Eighteenth-Century Travel Writings.”” (Paula R. Backscheider) 
Auburn University. 

Gregoriou, Zelia. “Learning Performances of Dislocation, Receptivity and 
Hybndity in Woman’s Utopian Writing.” (Kal Aston) University of Ilinois-Urbana 
Champlain. 

Lazo, Rodrigo J. “Filibustering an Empire: Transamerican Writing and United 
States Expansionism.” (Robert S. Levine) University of Maryland-College Park. 
Otero, Joanne Ilona. “From Pilgnm to Savior: The Spanish Traveler in Nineteenth- 
and T'wentieth-Century Spain.” (Ignacio Lopez) University of Pennsylvania. 


Comer, Denise Kendall. “Fictions of Empire: British Women’s Travel Narratives 
in India, 1779-1854.”” (William B. Thesing) University of South Carolina. 
Dabak, Shubhangi. “Images of the Orient in the Travel Writings of Ida Pfeiffer 
and Ida Hahn-Hahn.” (George F. Peters) Michigan State University. 
Edwards, Justin D. “Exotic Journeys: Exploring the Erotics of American Travel 
Literature, 1840-1930.” (Robert K. Martin) Université de Montréal. 
Esieben, Joerg. “Enlightenment Canvas: Cultures of Travel, Ethnographic 
Aesthetics, and Imperialist Discourse in Georg Forster’s Writings.” (Susan E. 
Gustafson) University of Rochester. 

Fitzpatrick, Kristin Lynn. “ “What She Carries With Her’: Gender and American 
National Identity in Nineteenth-Century Women’s Travel Narratives.” (Gary 
Handwerk) University of Washington. 

Franey, Laura Elizabeth. “‘ “The Devil’s Own Tattoo’: Violence, Sovereignty 
and Gender in Victorian Travel Narratives about Africa.” (Ali Behdad; Anne 
Mellor) University of California, Los Angeles. 

Garrett, Leah Vladeck. “Modemity in Motion: Images of Travelin Modem Yiddish 
Literature.” (David G. Roskies) Jewish Theological Seminary of America. 
Guinee, David Andrews. “The Roman Argonautica: Valerius Flaccus and the 
Epic Tradition.” (David S. Potter) University of Michigan. 

Harrow, Sharon Rebecca. “ ‘Homely Adventures’: Domesticity, Travel, and 
the Gender Economy of Colonial Difference in Eighteenth-Century British 
Literature.” (William Epstein) University of Anzona. 

Healey, Kimberley J. “Importing Displacement: French Waters and the Aesthetics 
of Travel, 1900-1930.” (Gerald Prince) University of Pennsylvania. 
Holliday, Shawn Patrick. “ ‘A Passionate and Obscure Hunger for Voyages’: 
Thomas Wolfe and the Milieu of American Travel Writing.” (James M. Cahalan) 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 

Keirstead, Christopher Michael. “Poets Among the Nations: Continental Travel 
and the Long Victorian Poem.” (Barbara T. Gates) University of Delaware. 
Latshaw-Fot, Elizabeth Anne. “Social Agendas in Eighteenth-Century Travel 
Narratives.” (Pat Rogers) University of Southern Florida. 

LeMenager, Stephanie Susan. “Heavy Traffic: The American Nation in Narratives 
of Travel and Trade, 1810-1860.”” (Philip J. Fisher) Harvard University. 
Lowry, Helen Mary. “ ‘Reisen, solte ich reisen! England sehen!’: A Study in 
Fighteenthy-Century Travel Accounts, Sophie von La Roche, Johanna 


A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NORTH-AMERICAN DISSERTATIONS 453 


345. 


346. 


347. 


348. 


349. 


350. 


350a. 


350b. 


350c. 


350d. 


2000 
351. 
351. 


353. 


354. 


355: 


356. 


357. 


358. 


Schopenhauer and Others.” (Chnsta Fell) Queen’s Universtiy at Kingston. 
Mazzeo, Tilar Jenon. “Producing the Romantic ‘Literary’ Travel Literature, 
Plagiarism, and the Italian Shelley/Byron Circle.” (Hazard Adams) University 
of Washington. 

Polavaram, Sukuman. “The Commerce of Cunosity: Seventeenth-Century French 
Travel Accounts of India.” (William Paulson) University of Michigan. 
Sampson, Kathym Ann. “The Romantic Literary Pilgrimage to the Onent Byron, 
Scott, and Burton.” (Elizabeth Fernea) University of Texas at Austin. 
Schmeller, Erik Stuart. “Unpacking Colo(u)r: Racial Attitudes in English and 
American Travel Waiting, 1833-1914.” (Marji Morgan) Souther Illinois University 
at Carbondale. 

Schwetman, John David. “The Road to Nowhere: Configurations of the Provincial 
and the Cosmopolitan in the Twentieth-Century United States Travel Narrative.” 
(John Carlos Rowe) University of California, Irvine. 

Williams, Cheryl Deborah. “ ‘Conceived in Transit, Delivered in Passage’: Travel 
and Identity in Nineteenth-Century African-American Women’s Narratives.” 
(Houston A. Baker, Jr.) University of Pennsylvania. 

Dowdle, Stephanie L. “Tounsts, Settlers, and Pioneers: Women and the Westward 
Movement.” (James L. Gray) Indiana University of Pennsilvania. 

Pierce, Jason Adam. “‘Penny-wise and Virtue-foolish’: Robert Louis Stevenson 
and the Late Victorian Publishing Industry.” (Patrick Scott) University of South 
Carolina. 

Rourke, Brian Russel. “Mexicos of Mind: British Writers of the 1930s in Mexico.” 
(Herbert Lindenberger) Stanford University 

Yu, Ningping. “Manufactured Images: Four Chinese Travelers and their Wntng 
about American Women.” (Richard P. Horwitz) University of Iowa. 


Bnsson, Ulnke. ““Nineteenth-Century European Women’s Travel Wntngs: Female 
Heroes, Danger, and Death.” (Gerhard Strasser) Pennsylvania State University. 
Cabanas Enriquez, Miguel Angel. “American Eyes: Negotiation and Culture 
in Nineteenth-Century Travel Narratives in the Americas.” (Jerry Phillips) 
University of Connecticut. 

Cappellini, Silvia Maria. “The Voyage d’oultre Merby Bertrandon de la Broquiére 
(1432-1433): An Enlightened Journey in the World of the Levant (Followed 
by a New Catical Edition of this Text).”” (Jacqueline Cerquiglini-Toulet; Stephen 
G. Nichols) Johns Hopkins University. 

Cox, John David. “Traveling Texts: Southern Travel Narratives and the 
Construction of American National Identity.” (Jay Watson) University of 
Mississippi. 

Dardary, Abdul Mawjoud Rageh. “Cultural Altenty, Euro-centrism, and Islamism: 
Travel Literature and the Construction of Mist/Egypt.” (James G. Knapp) 
University of Pittsburgh. 

Fortuny, Kim Luana. “Elizabeth Bishop: Terms of Travel.”” (David Hamilton) 
University of Iowa. 

Grant-Boyd, Joan Hope. “Fighting Their Battles, Claiming their Victories: Three 
Examples of African-American Female Heroism.” (James de Jongh) City 
University of New York. 

Heaney, Thomas Michael. “The Call of the Open Road: Automobile Travel 


454 


309. 


360. 


361. 


362. 


363. 


364. 


365. 


366. 


367. 


368. 


369. 


370. 


11. 


312. 


373. 


374. 


375. 


375a. 


MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


and Vacations in American Popular Culture, 1935-1960.” (jon Wiener) University 
of California, Irvine. 

Heaps, Denise Adele. “Gendered Discourse and Subjectivity in Travel Wnting 
by Canadian Women.” (Elspeth Cameron) University of Toronto. 

Hinton, Marcie Lynn. “Postcards from the War: A Rhetorical Analysis of 
Authorship and Audience in Martha Gellhorn’s War-Torn Travel Writing.” 
(Paul Ashdown) University of Tennessee. 

Hurt, Matthew Joseph. “Uniting States: Narration, Space, and Nation in Four 
Nineteenth-Century Travel Novels.” (Robert Dale Parker) University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign. 

Kostopulos, Dan Sotirios. “Remote Places: Waugh, Travel, and Empire.” (David 
Galef) University of Mississippi. 

Maldonado-Deoliveira, Debora. “The Flying Metaphor: Travel, Cultural Memor, 
and Identity in Three Puerto Rican Texts.” (Beth Jorgensen) University of 
Rochester. 

Malik, Hasan Ahmed. “The Bending of Genre: Generic Conventions, Fiction, 
and Empiricism in the Travel Narrative of Addison, Defoe, and Smollett.” 
(Thomas Stumpf) University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 

McDaniel, Kathryn Noble. “Foreign Bodies: Reflections of Self and Others 
in English Travel Literature, 1650-1750.” (Margo Todd) Vanderbilt University. 
Rico, Monica Lisa. “Culture and Capital: British Travel in the Nineteenth-Century 
American West.” (Thomas W. Laqueur) University of California, Berkeley. 
Rudy, Kathryn Margaret. “Northern European Visual Responses to Holy Land 
Pilgrimage, 1453-1550.” (David Freedberg) Columbia University. 
Steadman, Jennifer Bemhardt. “Travel Waiting and Resistance: A Feminist Reading 
of Travel Narratives by African American and Euro-Amencan Women, 1820- 
1860.” (Frances Smith Foster) Emory University. 

Sumption, Linda Jan. “‘A Wayless Way’: Patterns of Adventure in Nineteenth- 
Century American Travel Narratives.” (William P. Kelly) City University of 
New York. 

Tumer, Jennifer Anne. “Subjects in Space: The Politics of Travel in Early Modern 
England.” (E. Hanson) Queen’s University at Kingston .. 

Vogel, Amber. “Mungo Park’s Lament, and Other Narratives of Loss: Themes 
in African Travel Writing, 1759-1830, with Reference to Goldsmith, Blake, and 
Bronte.” (Beverly Taylor) University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
Voss, Dirk Karl. “National Stereotypes about Germans in American Travel 
Writings, 1815-1914.” (David Levy) University of Oklahoma. 
Widmer-Schnyder, Florence Johanna. “Nineteenth-Century Women’s Narratives 
at the Crossroads: Problems of Travel, Genre, and Identity.” (Katherine Arens, 
Carol MacKay) University of Texas at Austin. 

Wright, Elizabeth Jane. “Leaving ‘Home’: Travel and the Politics of Literacy 
in United States Women’s Fiction and Autobiography, 1898-1988.”" (Minrose 
Gwin) University of New Mexico. 

Zarobell, John J. “Framing French Algeria: Colonialism, Travel and the 
Representation of Landscape, 1830-1870.” (Darcy Grimaldo Grigsby) University 
of California, Berkeley. 

Graebner, Seth Roberson. “Out of Tome, Out of Place: History, Nostalgia, 
and the City in French and Algerian Literature since 1830.” (Susan Suleiman) 


A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NORTH-AMERICAN DISSERTATIONS 455 


375b. 


375¢: 


375d. 


efic. 


2001 
316: 


S11. 


378. 


379: 


380. 


381. 


382. 


383: 


384. 


385. 


386. 


387. 


388. 


389. 


390. 


Harvard University. 

Kroeg, Susan M. “A Third Remove: The English Traveler in Ireland, 1775-1845.” 
(James L. Hill) Michigan State University. 

Miller, Melissa Lee. “The Imperial Feminine: Victorian Women Travelers in 
Late Nineneteenth-Century Egypt.” (F. S. Schwarzbach) Kent State University. 
Olson, Kelli Mahone. “A Cultural Study of Henry D. Thoreau’s The Maine Woods. 
(Robert Sattelmeyer) Georgia State University. 

Turhan, Filiz. “The Other Empire: British Romantic Wnitings about the Ottoman 
Empire,” (Paul Magnuson) New York University. 


Farley, David Gannon. “Intellectuals Abroad: The Modernist Travel Writings 
of Ezra Pound, e. e. cummings, Wyndham Lewis, and Rebecca West.” (Holly 
Laird; Robert Spoo) University of Tulsa. 

Greene, Carol Marie. “Letters Home: Newspaper Travel Writing of Kate Field, 
Mary Elizabeth McGarth Blake, and Grace Greenwood.” (Karen Dandurand) 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 

Holst-Knudsen, Heidi Lee. “Eschewing Ending: Gérard de Nerval and the Poetics 
of Nonclosure.” (Henri Mitterand) Columbia University. 

Idrissi Alami, Ahmed. “Dilemmas and Anxieties of Modernity in Moroccan, 
French and British Travel Writing (1844-1894).” (Eileen Julien; Janet Sorensen) 
Indiana University. 

Kaplan, Leslie Glickman. ““A Good Considerable Country Town’: Visions of 
a Greek Village in European Travel Narratives.” (Regina Bendix) University 
of Pennsylvania. 

Khattak, Nasir Jamal. “Gulliver’s Travels: A Journey Through the Unconscious.” 
(Joseph F. Bartolomeo) University of Massachusetts Amherst. 
Marteinsdottir, Eda Maria. “On Top of the World: Colonialism and the Conquest 
of the Past in British Travel Narratives of Iceland.” (Marguerite Waller) University 
of California, Riverside. 

Nester, Deborah Craig. “‘Gwine By’: Colonial Women’s Travel Literature and 
the West Indian Marketplace.” (Sandra Pouchet Paquet) University of Miami. 
Parrett, Aaron C. “Out of Earth’s Cradle: The Translunar Travel Narrative in 
the Western Tradition.” (Mihai Spariosu) University of Georgia. 

Peterson, Kimberly. “Living on the Edge: The Travel Narratives of Euhemeros, 
Iamboulos, and Lucian.” (Diskin Clay) Duke University. 

Ross-Nazzal, James Anthony. “Traveling with the Ladies: American Women’s 
Travel Accounts on Palestine in the Nineteenth Century.” (Marina Tolmacheva) 
Washington State University. 

Suranyi, Anna. “Civil Turks and Wild Irish: Seventeenth-Century Travel Literature 
and English National Identity.” (Muriel C. McClendon) University of California, 
Los Angeles. 

Van Dyke, Richard Kenneth. “Traces of Enlightenment: Eighteenth-Century 
Travel Writing and the Reproduction of Knowledge(s).” (R. B. Reaves) University 
of Rhode Island. 

Weber, Elka Naomi. “Traveling Through Text: Message and Method in Late 
Medieval Pilgrimage Accounts.” (Frank E. Peters) New York University. 
Wittman, Emily Ondine. “The Discipline of Travel Experience and Expertise 
in American, English and French Interwar Literature.” (Maria Dibattssta) 


456 


390a. 


390b. 


390c. 


390d. 


2002 
a91. 


392. 


393. 


394. 


395. 
396. 


397. 


398. 


399. 


400. 
401. 
402. 


403. 


404. 


MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


Princeton University. 

Hesther, Nathalie Claire. “Traveling for Writing’s Sake: Seventeenth-Century 
Italian Tourists and their Narratives.” (Elissa Weaver) University of Chicago. 
Ortabasi, Melek Su. “Japanese Cultural History as Literary Landscape: Scholarship, 
Authorship and Language in Yanagita Kunio’s Native Ethnology.” (Diane Behler) 
University of Washington. 

Thomas, Karin Michele. “Traveling Eyes: African-American Travelers Create 
a World, 1789-1930.” (Alan Trachtenberg) Yale University. 

Zimmermann, Virginia Lee-Alice. “The Grating Roar of Science: Victorian 
Revisions of Time.” (Karen Chase) University of Virginia. 


Dupee, Jeffrey Nelson. “Envisioned Companions: Britsh Travel Writers in China. 
Writing Home to a British Public, 1890-1914.” (Elazar Barkan) Claremont 
Graduate University. 

Keogh, Annette Maria. “Found in Translation: Foreign Travel and Linguistic 
Difference in the Eighteenth Century.” (John Bender, Terry Castle) Stanford 
University. 

Ledford, Katherine Elizabeth. “Progressive Desires: Travel Writing, National 
Identity, and the Mountain South in the Early Nineteenth-Century United States.” 
(Dana D. Nelson) University of Kentucky. 

Presner, Todd Samuel. “Tracking Modernity, Nationalizing Mobility: 
German/Jewish Travel Literature as a History of Possibility.” (Jeffrey T. Schnapp) 
Stanford University. 

Caballero, Maria Soledad. “Rediscovering the Americas: Women’s Travel Wnting, 
1821-1843.” (Sonia Hofkosh) Tufts University. 

Flynn, Christopher Bayton. “A Breed Apart: Amencans in English Literature, 
1770-1832.” (Ann K. Mellor) University of California, Los Angeles. 
Freire-Medeiros, Bianca S. ““The Traveling City: Representations of Rio in United 
States Films, Travel Accounts and Scholarly Wnting.” (Anthony D. King) State 
University of New York at Binghamton. 

Frey, Heather Elizabeth. “‘I too have been a wanderer’: Romantic Travel Writing 
and Literary Self-Creation.’’) Kenneth R. Johnston) Indiana University. 
Janoff, Ronald Wiley. “Encountering Chiang Yee: A Western Insider Reading 
Response to Eastern Outsider Travel Writing.” (Gordon Pradl) New York 
University. 

McGill, Kathy O. “‘A Remote People’: British National Identity and America 
in the Eighteenth Century.” John Radner) George Mason University. 
Morrissette, Noelle Anne. “Critical Fictions: The Prose Writings of James Weldon 
Johnson.” (Robert B. Stepto) Yale University. 

Rostogi Pallavi. “Indianizing England: Cosmopolitanism in Colonial and Post- 
colonial Narratives of Travel.” (Joseph Litvak; Modhumita Roy) Tufts University. 
Soneson, Heidi Marie. “Image Making: Concepts of Civilization in the 
Seventeenth-Century Writings of Wilhelm Johann Mueller.” (Jean Mane Allman, 
Arlene Akiko Tearoka) University of Minnesota. 

Vanderploeg, Glen Marvin. “Ecologies of Nation and Identity: The Idea and 
Experience of Place in Early Nineteenth-Century New England Literature.” 
(Gurdon Hutner) University of Wisconsin-Madison. 


A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NORTH-AMERICAN DISSERTATIONS 457 


405. Warburton, Rachel Mary. “Mobility and Desire: Seventeenth-Century English 
Women’s Travel and Utopian Watings.” (Patricia Demers) University of Alberta. 


Time Frames of Voyages and/or Texts 


Ancient Times 302, 337, 385 

Middle Ages 298, 302, 327, 389 

Renaissance 285, 289, 315, 325, 327, 328, 329, 346, 353, 365, 367, 370, 387, 390a, 
403, 405 

18th Century 273, 291, 297, 300, 305, 310, 311, 313, 315, 316a, 318, 325, 329a, 
329b, 330, 333, 338, 342, 344, 347, 350a, 350b, 350d, 354, 364, 365, 
371, 375, 380, 381, 383, 388, 395, 396, 398,400 

19th Century 270, 271, 272, 273, 277, 278, 280, 281, 282, 283, 284, 286, 287, 288, 
290, 292, 293, 294, 295, 297, 299, 300, 300c, 303, 304, 306, 309, 
310, 315, 316, 316a, 317, 320, 321, 322, 326, 329a, 329b, 329c, 330, 
331, 332, 334, 335, 341, 343, 345, 347, 348, 350, 350a, 350b, 350d, 
351, 352, 354, 355, 361,1366; 368, 369).371;: 372, 373;375,375a, 
375b, 375c, 375d, 375e, 377, 378, 379, 380, 382, 383, 386, 390b, 
390c, 390d, 391, 393, 394, 395, 396, 398, 402,404. 

20th Century 271, 274, 275, 276, 277, 279, 283, 294, 300, 301, 303, 307, 308, 300b, 
309, 312, 314, 316b, 321, 323, 326, 329c, 332, 336, 339, 340, 348, 
349, 356, 357, 358, 359, 350c, 350d, 360, 362, 363, 372, 374, 375a, 
376, 382, 383, 390, 390b, 390c, 397, 399, 401, 402. 


Geographical Distribution of Journeys Area of Origin 
Africa 388 


Algeria 375a 
Egypt 355 
Morocco 3719 


South Africa 274 
Asia Arab World 319 
China 277, 298, 300b, 315, 331a, 399 


India 402 
Japan 390b 
Europe 336, 352, 367, 380, 384, 403 
Austria 334 
England and Scotland 270, 271, 275, 280, 284, 288, 289, 292, 295, 296, 


297, 300c, 301, 304, 305, 309, 310, 311, 312, 313, 314, 316, 318, 321, 324, 
325, 328, 329, 329a, 330, 335, 338, 341, 342, 345, 347, 348, 350b, 350c, 
351, 355, 362, 364, 365, 366, 370, 371, 373, 375b, 375c, 375e, 376, 377, 
381, 383, 387, 388, 390, 391, 392, 395, 396, 398, 400, 402, 405 

France 285, 300, 303, 306, 335, 339, 346, 351, 353, 375, 375a, 378, 379, 390 

Germany 277, 278, 279, 318, 320, 331, 333, 344, 350c, 351, 394 

Greece 385 

Italy 327, 390a 

Poland 291, 322 


458 MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


Russia 273, 291, 322 
Spain 302, 390a 
North America Canada 294, 309, 359 
United States 270,272,280, 281, 282, 283, 286, 287, 290, 292, 296, 299, 300, 
301, 304, 308, 316, 316a, 316b, 317, 326, 329b, 332, 334, 340, 342, 343, 
348, 349, 350, 350a, 352, 354, 356, 357, 375c, 358, 360, 361, 368, 369, 372, 
374, 376, 377, 383, 386, 390, 390c, 393, 397, 400, 401, 404 
Caribbean 276, 329b, 352, 363 
South America Bolivia 523 
Argentina 352 


Geographical Distribution of Journeys Area of Destination 
Africa 274, 275, 282, 288, 305, 314, 321, 335, 338, 362, 365, 371, 390, 403 
Algeria 375, 375a 
Morocco 281, 283, 376, 379 
Egypt 310, 319, 355, 375¢ 
Asia and the Pacific 287, 289, 305, 308, 313, 316b, 332, 333, 360, 365, 392 
Arabia 310, 319 
India 295, 330, 346, 402 
Middle or Near East 281, 286, 305, 310, 329, 353, 375e, 388, 390a 
Holy Land and Palestine 288, 302, 367, 368 
Southeast Asia 277, 292, 373 


Orient 278, 322, 347 

China 298, 300b, 3271, 331, 339, 391 
Japan 274, 390b, 392 

Taiwan 315 


Europe 273, 280, 281, 284, 292, 304, 326, 328, 329a, 332, 333, 334, 340, 350, 360, 
364, 373, 379, 390a, 394 
Balkans 314 
England and Scotland 297, 342, 344, 348, 370, 388, 398, 402 
France 341, 350b, 390, 398, 402 
Germany 372 
Greece 284, 312, 380 
Iceland 382 
Ireland 370, 375b, 387 
Italy 311, 312, 316a, 320, 324, 325, 341, 345, 364, 390d 


Russia (Soviet Union) 273, 274, 279, 286, 303, 376 
Scandinavia 342, 398 
Spain 325, 329b, 390 


Yugoslavia 376 
America Canada 285, 294, 300a, 309, 359, 395, 398 

Caribbean and Latin America 286, 289, 321, 329b, 338, 352, 383 

Mexico 270, 350c, 352, 395 

United States 272,276,279, 280, 284, 286, 288, 299, 300, 303, 332, 334, 336, 
340, 342, 343, 348, 349, 350, 350d, 357, 358, 361, 365, 374, 375d, 388, 390c, 
396, 400, 401, 405 
Southern Region 317, 354, 393 
West (frontier) 290, 293, 300, 300c, 304, 350a, 366, 369 


A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NORTH-AMERICAN DISSERTATIONS 459 


South America 306, 323 


Brazil 285, 352, 397 
Peru 303 
Chile 395 


Genres: Fiction 
Poetry 276, 284, 300a, 319, 321, 322, 324, 328, 337, 341, 345, 347, 356, 363, 370, 
375e, 376 

Prose (novel or short story) 271,274, 275,279; 281,283, 2815290; (2997299, 
300a, 305, 306, 308, 312, 313, 316a, 323, 326, 328, 329, 329b, 332, 334, 336, 338, 
340, 345, 349, 350c, 357, 361, 370, 371, 373, 374, 375, 375a, 375e, 381, 390, 390d, 
392, 396, 398, 401, 402, 404 

Drama 301, 308, 324, 327, 338, 363, 370 

Science Fiction 301, 316, 329a, 384, 385 


Genres: Non Fiction 
Autobiography 272, 282, 288, 291, 292, 294, 306, 310, 326, 329a, 347, 350, 354, 
374, 378, 388, 390c, 401, 405 


Journalism 304, 329b, 329c, 350d, 360, 377 
Journals / Diaries 298, 321, 345, 350d, 368, 372, 375c, 382, 395, 402 
Letters 284, 304, 310, 325, 329, 346, 368, 375c, 382, 388 


Narrative (prose) 270, 272, 273, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279, 280, 281, 283, 285, 286, 
288, 289, 290, 291, 292, 293, 294, 296, 297, 299, 300, 300a, 300b, 300c, 302, 303, 
305, 307, 308, 309, 311, 314, 315, 316a, 316b, 317, 318, 319, 320, 321, 322, 326, 
327, 328; 329b, 329c, 330, 331, 332, 333,334, 335, 338, 339,342,343, 344; 345, 
346, 348, 350, 350a, 350b, 350c, 350d, 351, 352, 353, 354, 355, 358, 359, 362, 
363, 364, 365, 366, 367, 368, 369, 371, 372, 373, 375a, 375c, 375d, 375e, 376, 380, 
382, 383, 386, 387, 388, 389, 390, 390a, 390b, 390c, 391, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396, 
397, 398, 399, 400, 403, 404, 405 


Critical Issues and Topics 
Colonialism/Imperialism 275, 283, 289, 295, 310, 313, 314, 315, 321, 330, 333, 
335, 338, 346, 362, 363, 3719373,375,:575a, 375€ 3.156, 379, 382, 583, 
387, 390, 402 
Orientalism and the Orient 277, 278, 308, 327, 331, 347, 386, 391 
New World (including American and Canadian frontier) 285, 293, 294, 300, 
309, 342, 350a, 350c, 352, 366, 369, 390c, 396, 400, 405 
Grand Tour 281, 320, 332, 341, 344 
Romantic Movement 284, 297, 345, 347, 375e, 396, 398 
Women and GenderIssues 270,277, 278, 281, 282, 286, 288, 291, 292, 294, 300c, 
303, 304, 306, 309, 310, 311, 316a, 329, 329a, 330, 331, 334, 335, 338, 342, 344, 
350, 350a, 351, 356, 357, 359, 360, 363, 368, 373, 374, 375c, 377, 383, 386, 388, 
395, 405 
Constructing an Identity for the Self (including psychological issues) 
273, 274, 276, 287, 289, 298, 303, 312, 323, 324, 325, 326, 332, 339, 356, 364, 
375c, 378, 381, 390a, 390b, 388, 398, 399, 401 
Constructing a National or Ethnic Identity (including stereotyping) 
279, 280, 283, 297, 300a, 305, 312, 316a, 316b, 317, 319, 320, 322, 328, 329b, 
329c, 336, 340, 341, 343, 344, 348, 349, 350c, 355, 358, 361, 365, 372, 375a, 376, 


460 MARTHA A. KALLSTROM 


379, 380, 387, 391, 392, 394, 396, 397, 400, 403 

Slavery (American and West Indies) 272, 299, 317, 350, 354, 357, 383, 388, 390c, 
393 

Religion (including pilgrimages, missionaries, and other issues of spirituality) 
271, 302, 322, 328, 339, 346, 350a, 353, 355, 367, 389 

Other Political or Social Issues 276, 282, 286, 292, 299, 300b, 315, 318, 329b, 
342, 343, 350b, 352, 368, 370, 374, 375b, 375c, 376, 390d 

Surveys of the Genre 296, 307, 319, 329c, 384, 389, 390a 

Quests 287, 290, 337, 357, 378 

Time Travel and Science Fiction 301, 316, 329a, 384, 385, 405 


Authors of Travel Writings 


Byron, George Gordon, Lord 345, 347, 375e 


Cary, Mary Shadd 368, 390c, 405 

Cooper, James Fenimore 290, 300, 34 

Dante 271, 324, 384 

Defoe, Daniel 305, 313, 318, 325, 338, 342, 364, 384 
Fuller, Margaret 286, 292, 350a 

Greene, Graham 275, 314, 350c 

Hahn-Hahn, Ida 278, 331, 351 


Hawthorne, Nathaniel 290, 316a, 332 
Hurston, Zora Neale 349, 357, 383 


Jacobs, Harriet 212, 390,354 

James, Henry 290, 316a, 317, 326, 334 
Johnson, Samuel 388, 392, 342 
Kingsley, Mary 288, 335, 351 

Melville, Herman 287, 299, 332, 361 
Olmsted, Frederick Law 272, 317, 354 

Pfeiffer, Ida 278, 331, 334, 351 
Prince, Nancy 286, 350, 368, 383, 390c 
Seacole, Mary 286, 292, 348, 368, 390c 
Shelley, Percy Bysshe 284, 345, 375e 
Spenser, Edmund 324, 328, 370 


Stowe, Harriet Beecher 272, 316a, 377, 401 
Thoreau, Henry David 290, 342, 375d 


Twain, Mark 283, 299, 301, 316, 343, 361 
Waugh, Evelyn 296, 314, 362 
Wharton, Edith 281, 283, 316a, 332, 334 


Wollstonecraft, Mary 288, 342, 396, 398 
Wordsworth, William 297, 321, 398 
Wortley Montagu, Lady Mary Pierrepont 310, 325, 329, 388 


Vanderbilt University 


CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


Recent English Studies in Travel Literature 


ames Cowan’s novel, A Mapmaker’s Dream,‘ pretends to be a translation of 

a recently discovered journal by Fra Mauro, the sixteenth-century Venetian 

cartographer. This absorbing, beautifully written fantasy, which includes 
plausible but bogus footnotes, is also a brooding treatise on early cartography 
as a kind of alchemy. Into the crucible of Fra Mauro’s mind go the maps of 
his predecessors, the tales of the Venetian travelers who visit him, and the heat 
of his own fertile imagination: the result is his appa mundi. Mote recent, and 
with a greater claim to truth, is Alain de Botton’s The Art of Travel,’ a searching 
meditation on the relationship between travel and the self. De Botton is as 
concemed with travelers of the past, such as Baudelaire, Flaubert, Ruskin, 
Wordsworth, and van Gogh, as he is with his own travels; and he is less 
concerned with other places than with the desire to go there. The wide appeal 
of such books has made some of the most difficult subjects-memory, identity, 
the exotic—accessible in the most transparent, unacademic prose. One 
wonders if this has anything to do with what has happened in the academic 
sector, which in recent years has seen a great proliferation of books about 
travel and travel literature. It would be impossible, in these few pages, to 
provide an adequate review of all the hodoeporical studies that have appeared 
over the last half-dozen years or so. What follows, therefore, is a mainly 
descriptive survey of a representative selection, arranged more or less 
chronologically according to periods. 

With regard to the early period, among the most practical books to appear 
recently is Travel Knowledge.’ Edited by Ivo Kamps and Jyotsna Singh, it is a 
collection of primary documents—excerpts from accounts of the Middle East, 
India, and Africa—each accompanied by a critical essay (nine scholars have 
contributed to this book). In their introduction, Kamps and Singh stress that 
their aim is not “to read these travel narratives as expressions of a unified 


1. James Cowan. A Mapmaker's Dream: The Meditations of Fra Mauro Cartographer to the Court of 
Venice (Boston: Shambhala, 1996). 


2. Alain De Botton. The Art of Travel (New York: Pantheon Books, 2002). 


3. Ivo Kamps and Jyotsna G. Singh, eds. Travel Knowledge: European “Discoveries” in the Early 
Modern Period (New York: Palgrave, 2001); see also Voyages and Visions: Towards a Cultural History 
of Travel, eds. J. Elsner and J.-P. Rubies (London: Reaktion Books, 1999). This collection of 
ten essays reaches into the twentieth century, but the first three are dedicated to the sixteenth. 


Annali dTtalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


462 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


Eurocentrism,” that to do so would be to “erase” the particularities of the 
English, Spanish, Portuguese and Dutch expansionist enterprises, not to 
mention those of individual travelers; but early modern travel was inescapably 
political, and each essay acknowledges, as it must, what the editors call “the 
long, retrospective reach of the colonial imaginary” (4). 

Examining the travels of George Sandys and William Lithgow, Daniel 
Vitkus argues that, during the seventeenth century, English travelers began to 
develop a collective identity. When they visited the Holy Land, they went as 
“anti-pilgrims,” wanting “to express their skepticism and testify to the false 
‘idolatry’ or ‘superstition’ of the other Christians who continued to uphold the 
importance of pilgrimage and the cult of saints” (41). Mary C. Fuller, in 
“English Turks and Resistant Travelers” carries out a more intimate study. 
In Thomas Dallam’s diary and in the travels of John Rawlins she sees the 
politics of sex and religion at work. “Voluntary conversion,” she says, “of 
Christian Englishmen to Islam was not uncommon,” but “at the center” of 
these narratives is “resistance,” be it “passive or active” (72), and it is out of 
this resistance that identity is born. Gerard Maclean, studying the travels of 
Henry Blount and a poem dedicated to him by Bishop Henry King, shows 
how the English admired the Turks’ own resistence and their model of 
empire.* A quite different, 1f not opposite, point of view, is found in the 
excerpts from Lady Mary Wortley Montagu’s Travels of an Enghsh Lady in 
Europe, Asia, and Africa. In an essay which turns on the question of whether 
and to what extent Montagu disrobed among other women in a Turkish bath, 
Rebecca Chung shows how resistance, in this case, “registered through 
aesthetic means” (122). The bath, said Montagu, was like Milton’s Eden, and 
the women there “moved with the same majestic grace which Milton describes 
of our General Mother” (100). 

Kamps’s essay, “Colonizing the Colonizer,” is a study of the complex 
situation that developed when Jan Huyghen van Linschoten observed the 
behavior of the Portuguese in India. The Portuguese enterprise was territorial, 
says Kamps, whereas that of the Dutch was economic; thus the cultural 
identity of the Portuguese melded with that of the Indian, whereas that of the 
Dutch—who enjoyed a privileged but dubious vantage point, what Kamps calls 
“the double gaze”—remained more intact (161-162). Singh’s essay, on the 
travels of Edward Terry, is also a study of seeing, or “the gaze.” Particularly 
interesting is what happens when Terry offers the Mogul a Mercator map that 
would show his reign to be restricted. The Mogul refuses the gift, claiming 
that it is in a language he cannot understand. He does seem to understand, 
however, that for the English traveler, the act of looking was an act of 


4. On this subject, see also Nabil Matar’s thorough study, Islam in Britain, 1558-1685 
(Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1998). “Aware that the attraction of the Ottoman Empire 
sometimes proved irresistible to their compatriots,”says Matar, “Britons tried to undermine 
this attraction in three areas of writing and activity: theological polemic, drama and 
evangelism’’(19). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 463 


domination. “Witnessing,” says Singh, in this essay heavily indebted to 
Stephen Greenblatt, “was the primal act in the discourse of travel,” after 
which travelers could then “record, objectify, and claim the world they 
encountered” (198). 

Taking up the subject of Africa, Gary Taylor studies the journals of two 
English merchants, John Hearne and William Finch, and what ts probably the 
first African production of Haméet. It was produced on their ship for Lucas 
Fernandez, their interpreter and “the first identifiable black man (or woman),” 
says Taylor, “whose life intersects with the works of our most canonical dead 
white male, William Shakespeare” (223). The ship was transformed into a 
theater; the English, says Taylor, saw their “artistic skill as an index of the 
splendor” of English civilization; they traveled abroad “armed with their art” 
(233).° An essay on Leo Africanus, by Oumelbanine Zhiri, examines the 
struggle of this early modem exile to communicate the alien realities of Africa 
and Islam to Christian Europeans. He wrote his Description of Afnca in a 
faulty Italian, after he was taken to Italy by pirates and baptized. Zhiri’s lucid 
essay, along with carefully chosen excerpts, bears out the importance of 
“cultural hybridity,” which, for Leo Africanus, “constituted the horizon of his 
own literary production as well as of his own subject position” (258). And 
especially illuminating is Shankar Raman’s essay, a study of the concrete ways 
in which the “travel knowledge” of Fernao Lopes de Castenheda contributed 
to the making of a national myth: Luis Vaz de Camées’s Os Lusiadas. 

This relationship between travel accounts and imaginative literature is the 
basis of John Michael Archer’s recent book.® In part, this book is a corrective 
to the notion that with Westward expansion, interest in the Old World and 
regard for antiquity either remained static or began to fade. Archet’s thesis is 
that the discovery of the New World brought about a redefinition of the Old, 
which “was as much a European fiction as its rival” (1). His emphasis is on 
“England’s eastward trajectory,” what he calls “the various old worlds 
England attempted to reinterpret in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries: 
Northeast Africa, Southwest Asia, Russia, and India” (3). 

In a chapter dedicated to Shakespeare’s Antony and Cleopatra, Archer 
argues that the works of Herodotus, Heliodorus, Plutarch and Leo Africanus 
“figured” Egypt “as a land of monuments as well as a place where gender 


5. The Tempest, however, continues to attract the most attention from scholars working in 
hodoeporics. Nineteen essays on it are collected in “The Tempest” and Its Travels, eds. Peter 
Hulme ad William H. Sherman (Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 2000). 


6. John Michael Archer. O/d Worlds: Egypt, Southwest_Asia, India and Russia in Early Modern English 
Writing, (Stanford: Stanford U P, 2001). See also the chapters on early modem fiction and 
drama in Andrew Hadfield’s Leterature, Travel, and Colonial Writings in the English Renatssance: 
1545-1625 (Oxford: Oxford UP, 1998). Joan Pong Lipton has dedicated chapters to Thomas 
Lodge’s A Margarite of America, Thomas Deloney’s Jack of Newberry, and Shakespeare’s Troz/us 
and Cressida and The Tempest, in The Romance of the New World: Gender and the Literary Formations 
of English Colonialism (Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1998). 


464 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


relations were inverted” (60). Antony’s ambiguous position—he is tom 
between Rome and Egypt—and Cleopatra’s own paradoxical attraction to him, 
are explained thus: “Gender and sexuality challenge the idea of ‘containment’ 
by placing its workings on display through performance, but the performance 
of cultural difference consolidates the fantasy of race, rendering it 
monumental, making it history” (62). This dialectical relationship between 
“performance” and the “monumental,” between the dynamic and the static, 
recurs as a focus of analysis in the book’s other chapters. 

“Russia,” says Archer, “was associated above all with slavery of one sort 
or another by its European neighbors, even before the formal enserfment of 
the Russian peasantry began in the early 1590s” (111). Framing this chapter 
is Milton’s own view of Russia, which, as articulated in his A Brief History of 
Muscovia, seems to contain all of the elements of empire, both good and bad. 
“A barely fortunate fall,” says Archer, “the discovery of Russia matches 
Satan’s venture through Chaos and the well-traveled bridge it established 
between Hell and Earth in Paradise Lost’ (138). Sidney’s Astrophil and Stella, 
Shakespeare’s Love’s Labour’s Lost, and John Fletcher’s The Loyal Subject get 
special attention here, as Archer argues that Russia, perhaps the 
“monumentalized” Russia, served as a model for English imperialism. The 
imaginative literature of the period, however, also reveals “a cultural duel 
between monarchical and antimonarchical sides who looked to the 
Elizabethan and Jacobean past for their differing understandings of Russia 
and of empire in general” (138). 

There is also a chapter on Frangois Bernier’s History of the Late Revolution 
of the Great Mogal and its influence on Dryden’s Axreng-Zebe, but Archer’s 
chapter on Milton is especially fine. Here Archer attempts “to outline a 
framework of European texts”—by John Mandeville, Walter Raleigh, George 
Abbot, and Thomas Herbert—‘“that progressively model Southwest Asia in 
European culture up to the seventeenth century” (63). Asia, for Milton, 
becomes a model of a fallen world. And Paradise Lost “indirectly places the 
Restoration within the cycle of Asian empires by invoking both world tyranny 
and the Stuart dynasty”; Milton’s Satan, in effect, is a despot and traveler who 
exploits the exotic enticements of Paradise (99). This 1s Milton’s way of 
monumentalizing the era of the Stuart monarchs, “making it history.” 

Much of Paradise Lost was informed by the poet’s reading of travel 
accounts. In along passage in Book XI, for example, he creates a verbal map 
of the world, naming, principal destinations such as Moscow and Peking, 
Persia and Peru, and the “yet unspoil’d / Guiana, whose great Citie Geryons 
Sons / Call E/ Dorado” (ll. 409-411). It 1s an instance of what Tom Conley, 
in another context, has called “cartographic writing,” an aggressive act of 
naming that harnesses and domesticates the world, even as it shapes the 
identity of the author.’ In the case of Milton, of course, it also makes the 


7. Tom Conley. The Self-Made Map: Cartographic Writing in Early Modern France (Minneapolis: U 
of Minnesota P, 1996). Extending a similar analysis into the nineteenth century is Graham D. 








RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 465 


omnipresence of his God concrete. But the strategy was by no means new. 
Marlowe’s Tamburlaine, as Bernhard Klein points out,® surveys his world in 
much the same way. His “sword,” says Klein, “transforms into a 
cartographer’s compass,” and the map he makes “does not passively reflect 
but actively shapes the world of the play,” creating “new realities, a new 
toponymic world order” (17). 

And both English writers had an illustrious continental predecessor. 
When Francis Petrarch was invited to accompany his friend, Giovannolo da 
Mandello, on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land, he decided not to go; instead, by 
way of consolation, he wrote a guide to the Holy Land, the I#nerarium ad 
sepulchrum nostri Yehsu Christi, and gave it to Mandello, who then apparently did 
not make the trip either. This little book, which Petrarch wrote in three days 
during the spring of 1358, has now finally been made available in English.’ 
The translator, Theodore Cachey, has also provided the Latin original on the 
left, extensive annotations, and an insightful and admirably researched 
introduction. Most of Petrarch’s book is about sailing down the Western 
coast of Italy, from Liguria to Tuscany, to Naples, to Sicily, and then on, 
finally, to the pilgrim’s destination. Only towards the end, and then only very 
briefly, does Petrarch describe the important sites of the Holy Land. What 
makes the greatest impression is the relish with which he names the cities and 
rivers of Italy, and even local attractions such as Castel Nuovo in Naples, 
which at the time held paintings by Giotto. Again, this is an aggressive act, 
intended in part to create a unified Italy of the imagination, and in part to 
create, or to fashion, the author himself, Petrarch the exile, who transcends 
geographical space. The Itnerarium has a bearing on the history of early 
modern hodoeporics for another reason as well. As Cachey shows, it 1s part 
of what led Girolamo Tiraboschi, an eighteenth-century scholar, to see 
Petrarch as “a model for Grand Tour travelers three hundred years before 
modern, ‘enlightened’ Europeans began to go abroad” (9). 

Perhaps the best study of the Grand Tour in its earlier manifestations 1s 
Edward Chaney’s The Evolution of the Grand Tour, now in a new and revised 
paperback edition.” The book defies easy summary, as most of the essays it 


Bumett’s Masters of All They Surveyed: Exploration, Geography, and a British El Dorado (Chicago: The 
U of Chicago P, 2000). “During this period,” says Bumett, “scientific explorations and 
cartographic surveys turned a region that Europeans called serra incognita into a mapped and 
bounded colony” (3). 


8. Bernhard Klein. Maps and the Writing of Space in Early Modern England and Ireland (New York: 
Palgrave, 2001). 

9. Francesco Petrarca. Petrarch's Guide to the Holy Land: Itinerary to the Sepulcher of Our Lord Jesus 
Christ, trans. Theodore J. Cachey, Jr. (Notre Dame: The U of Notre Dame P, 2002). Cachey 
has also edited J. A. Robertson’s 1906 translation of Pigafetta’s The First Voyage around the World: 
An Account of Magellan’s Expedition (New York: Marsilio, 1995). 

10. Edward Chaney. The Evolution of the Grand Tour: Anglo-Italian Cultural Relations since the 
Renaissance (London: Frank Cass, 2000). 


466 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


contains are highly detailed studies, either of particular travelers or of narrowly 
defined subjects. The first essay, “British and American Travellers in Sicily 
from the Eighth to the Twentieth Centuries,” is as sweeping as Chaney gets. 
The rest are more restricted in scope, covering such topics as Anglo-Italian 
relations as seen through early Tudor tombs, Robert Dallington’s Survey of 
Tuscany, Inigo Jones in Naples, or “English Observations of Italian Hospitals, 
1545-1789.” What unifies most of these essays is that they deal with the 
Grand Tour not as “the fully-fledged eighteenth-century phenomenon” but as 
the journey of a century or two before, when Englishmen saw Italy as “a 
country whose contemporary culture was as impressive as its past and in many 
respects still outshone their own” (x1). 

Among the most amusing chapters here is “Milton’s Visit to 
Vallombrosa.” Milton mentions the place in Book I of Paradise Lost, when he 
describes the fallen angels, “who lay intrans’t / Thick as Autumnal Leaves that 
strow the Brooks / In Vallombrosa, where Etrurian shades / High overarch’t 
imbowr”’ (Il. 301-304). Apparently, however, it is unlikely that Milton ever 
saw the place. And in any case, after marshaling a great deal of other 
evidence, Chaney points out that, although Milton was in Tuscany twice, he 
was never there during a season when he could have seen the leaves on the 
ground (301). Perhaps hearsay alone was enough, then, to prompt him to 
mention it in his poem. While Archer shows how travel narratives can inform 
a mythical traveler such as Milton’s Satan, Chaney shows how the poet’s own 
travels have passed into myth. 

In “Quo Vadis? Travel as Education and the Impact of Italy in the 
Sixteenth Century,” Chaney examines some familiar and unfamiliar figures. 
Thomas Hoby, well known as the translator of Castiglione’s I/ Cortegiano, is 
seen here in his earlier period, as a traveler in Italy, keeping a diary that is part 
original and part plagiarism, for much of it draws from Leandro Alberti’s 
Descrittione dt tutta Itaka." “While the autobiographical or eye-witness passages 
are of greater immediate appeal and historical value,” says Chaney, “in this 
instance the borrowings are also of interest in providing us with opportunities 
to observe the trainee translator at work, practising on Alberti’s mundane 
prose an art he would soon be perfecting in turning Castiglione’s far more 
sophisticated text into one of the most influential publications of the 
Elizabethan period” (63). Also in this essay are some of the finest pages ever 
written on William Thomas, a strange and fascinating Englishman who stole 
money from his employer and fled to Venice, wrote the first Italian-English 
language guide (which would serve as a source for John Florio), was perhaps 
the first to translate Machiavelli into English (while serving as tutor to Edward 
VI), and wrote the first English history of Italy. Like Hoby’s journal, 
Thomas’s history is largely a translation of Italian sources. This relationship 


11. The first complete edition of Hoby’s journal is now being edited by Kenneth R. Bartlett. 
See also his own earlier study, The English in Italy: 1525-1558. _A Study in Culture and Politics 
(Geneva: Slatkine, 1991). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 467 


between travel and translation, as will become clear below, is a subject of 
growing scholarly interest. 

More psychological in its approach, Chloe Chard’s Pleasure and Guilt on the 
Grand Tour’ aims at an understanding of the distortions of the traveler’s 
perceptions. Travel, threatening as it is to all that 1s familiar, results in a 
rhetoric of guilt, a “commentary of opposition,” says Chard, which 1s “always 
in the grip of a conflict between the need to extract pleasure from the foreign 
and the need to contain or negate that pleasure in some way” (47). Here 
Grand Tour means, for the most part, the journey undertaken by English 
travelers to Europe, and primarily to Italy, from the early seventeenth century 
till about 1830. From the beginning of this period, says Chard, “the 
imaginative topography” of this journey was “mapped out as a formalized 
sequence of places to visit” (223). Travelers looked for difference, however, 
and if they did not find it they felt that they had failed. Hyperbole, therefore, 
became a common strategy, and for this reason two corrective strategies 
developed as well: parody, a comical exaggeration of the traveler’s responses 
to monuments and places of great historical moment; and digression, an 
affected interest in the trivial. Both, of course, also resulted in distortions. In 
either case, the result was an appropriation of the foreign through re- 
presentation, or, as Chard calls it, translation. “Travel writings,” she says, are 
“closely concerned with the traveller-narrator’s own rhetorical strategies, and 
with the rhetoric of other travellers: the task of finding the forms of language 
to translate the topography into discourse is a recurrent object of discussion” 
(9). Here, translation implies willful distortion, a transformation of things and 
places seen into a discourse that betrays the original: a fabrication of 
difference which, for the traveler who writes and for the reader as well, 
satisfies a fundamental need for pleasure. 

Brian Dolan’s recent book, Ladies of the Grand Tour,’*concentrates on the 
“fully-fledged eighteenth-century phenomenon,” as Chaney calls it, but only 
insofar as it involves British women. It is a study of eighteen women—Mary 
Berry, Elizabeth Carter, Lady Mary Coke, Maria Edgeworth, Hester Piozzi, 
Mary Wollstonecraft, and others—who saw in the journey to the Continent a 
variety of opportunities, from the cultivation of arts and letters to the pursuit 
of romantic adventures. Among these women developed a group mentality. 
“Ways to lead a life of the mind,”’ says Dolan, “were carved out collectively” 
(13). In their French and Italian counterparts, British women saw models of 
learning who “engaged much mote actively in philosophical debates and were 
able to elevate themselves in civil society” (22). Those who stayed home, 
inspired by those who traveled, came to be known as the “bluestocking” 
ladies, who assembled in the evenings to discuss art and literature. Some, 


12. Chloe Chard. Pleasure and Guilt on the Grand Tour: Travel Writing and Imaginative Geography, 
1600-1830 (Manchester and New York: Manchester U P, 1999). 

13. Brian Dolan. Ladies of the Grand Tour: British Women in Pursuit of Enlightenment and Adventure 
in Eighteenth-Century Europe (New York: HarperCollins, 2001). 


468 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


such as Wollstonecraft, even became passionately involved in the French 
Revolution, hoping “to see the new rights that were being proclaimed for men 
extend to women” (204). For these women of the Enlightenment, says Dolan, 
travel meant “instability,” a subversion of “the commonplace, the accepted 
norms, the banal routine of domestic life” (276). And this was as true of the 
lives they led as it was of the books they wrote.”* 

Any study of the travels of nineteenth-century women will have to 
grapple, on some level at least, with the matter of colonialism and its 
aftermath. In Home and Harem,” Inderpal Grewal attempts an ambitious study 
that involves not only colonialism and gender but class as well. This book, 
which gives special emphasis to India and England, is divided into two parts, 
the first dedicated to how, through travel, “English men and women” of this 
period “came to see themselves as English,” the second to “the circulation 
and impact of the culture of Euroimperial travel on non-Europeans” (14). 
The most engaging chapters here recount the experiences of particular women, 
such as Pandita Ramabai and Parvati Athavale, both of whom traveled to the 
West and committed themselves to improving the lives of Hindu women at 
home. But too much of this book is buried in an impenetrable theoretical 
jargon. Indian reformers, for example, in their struggle to determine which 
European influences to accept and which to reject, were involved in 
“negotiations with modernity,” or “discursive practices,” and these “were part 
of the colonial context in which feminism could find a space through 
Opposition and accommodation with nationalism, articulating categories called 
‘Indian women’ and ‘Indian feminism’ that performed their own erasures and 
silences” (229). This academic dialect, however, seems to be dying. Most of 
the studies examined here manage to convey difficult ideas in clear English 
prose. Perhaps the long, dark shadow of Michel Foucault is finally passing. 

Three women who traveled to India—Maria Graham, Emma Roberts, and 
Fanny Parks—get considerable space in Nigel Leask’s new study, Curiosity and 
the Aesthetics of Travel Writing: 1770-1840.'° Leask’s coverage, however, has not 
been determined by questions of gender. There are chapters on James Bruce, 
Alexander von Humboldt, and William Bullock; and another chapter, which 
begins with Shelley’s sonnet, “Ozymandias,” examines how the poet’s image 
of Egypt might have been formed by travel accounts such as those of 
Constantin Volney, Vivant Denon, and Giovanni Belzoni. What moved all of 
these travelers to venture into the interiors of Ethiopia, Egypt, India and 


14. Some of the same figures are discussed in Romantic Geographies: Discourses of Travel, 1775- 
1844, ed. by A. Gilroy (Manchester: Manchester U P, 2000). This collection, however, to 
which fourteen scholars have contributed, does not restrict itself to women travelers; it 
includes essays on Wordsworth, Byron and Shelley. 


15. Inderpal Grewal. Home and Harem: Nation, Gender, Empire, and the Cultures of Travel (Durham: 
Duke U P, 1996). 

16. Nigel Leask. Curzosity and the Aesthetics of Travel Writing, 1770-1840 (Oxford: Oxford UP, 
2002). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 469 


Mexico was the not quite divisible duality called “curiosity”: on the one hand, 
a base desire to possess the exotic or to sell it for profit; on the other, the lofty 
“inclination to knowledge,” says Leask, “which will lead the observer to a 
rational, philosophical articulation of foreign singularities” (4). These two 
“have a disconcerting tendency to converge,” and the result is “the ongoing 
ambivalence” that characterizes travel writing (314). The greatest appeal of 
this study is that the author is admirably reluctant to embrace the reductive 
political truisms of the day. He wants, rather, to “gain a purchase on the 
historical particularity of the traveller’s encounter with foreign cultures 
without subscribing to an essentializing binary model of “otherness” (18). In 
this way, as he explains in his theoretical first chapter, Leask departs from 
Edward Said. 

Said, who has had such a profound influence on literary studies, can easily 
coarsen one’s sensibility. He is brilliant when he writes about himself, or 
about exile; but his political views have closed him off from much great art. 
He has never, for example, been able to read Naipaul. Whenever Naipaul 
expresses admiration for the achievements of the West-either directly in his 
essays or indirectly in his imaginative books (and these include not only his 
novels but his travel accounts as well)—Said bristles. He accuses Naipaul of 
not doing more or better research when he travels, and the implication is that 
Naipaul has betrayed his fellow Indians by becoming the Westemer who had 
been their master. When Said reviewed Naipaul’s Among the Bekevers,"” he 
reduced the book thus: “the West is the world of knowledge, criticism, 
technical know-how, and functioning institutions, Islam its fearfully enraged 
and retarded dependent, awakening to a new, barely controllable power” (114). 
Said is not altogether wrong; this is, more or less, the book’s thesis. But to 
reduce this book, or any other book by Naipaul, to its thesis is to obscure 
nearly everything about it that is extraordinary. That Naipaul is an ingenious 
and protean novelist who answers to no one but himself obviously bothers 
Said, who, along with his many followers, would like him to become a 
ghettoized academic instead. Naipaul’s politics, granted, can be appalling. 
“But then Naipaul,” says Said, “isn’t a politician; he’s just a Writer” (117). 
Said’s rancor is palpable. It can make him enjoyable to read. Scholars such 
as Leask, however, are beginning to grow wary of his world view, and this, no 
doubt, is a salutary development. 

Mary Suzanne Schriber, in Writing Home,"* covers a later period, 1830- 
1920, showing how American women breathed new life into a genre that 
appeared to be nearly exhausted: “the sea crossing, the difficulty of handling 
foreign language, the dishonesty of porters, the atrocities of bandits, the bustle 
and decay of cities, the pride of being American, the ache of homesickness, 


17. This review is reprinted in Reflections on Exile and Other Essays (Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
2002): 113-117. 

18. Mary Suzanne Schriber. Writing Home: American Women Abroad, 1830-1920 (Charlottesville: 
The U of Virginia P, 1997). 


470 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


the joy of returning home”-they were predictable subjects, treated in 
increasingly predictable ways (49). When American women began to write 
about their European travels, the genre was transformed and revived. Most 
of these women, such as Margaret Fuller, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and others, 
were white, Anglo-Saxon Protestants of the middle or upper classes, and were 
aware that they were seen as symbols of the eventual perfection of American 
society. This awareness, in one way or another, shaped their work; but the 
new social and professional spaces that had opened up for women-especially 
in the field of journalism—allowed the travel book to become, in its new form, 
“a vehicle for the didactic destiny of American women” (54). The sections on 
Edith Wharton, with which the book concludes, are perhaps the most 
accomplished. Fighting France, Wharton’s book about World War I, turns the 
travel book inside out; indeed, as Schriber shows, it is the deliberate and 
inspired antithesis of Wharton’s own previous book, 4 Motor-F&ght Through 
Franee, which “had evoked safe passage, an enlarged liberty, leisure, prosperity, 
pilgrimage, discovery, enchantment, and the preservation of historical and 
artistic treasures for the traveler’s perusal” (204-205). This, it seems to me, is 
neither masculine nor feminine, only a manifestation of genuine talent.’ 
Oddly enough, however, the differences between the ways in which 
women and men travel are most vividly illustrated through a conventional 
approach: a study of images. Janis P. Stout has written about the subject 
before,” but in her new book, Through the Window, Out the Door,” she studies 
how the two images mentioned in her title figure in the works of Mary Austin, 
Willa Cather, Anne Tyler, Toni Morrison, and Joan Didion. In their works, 
images of windows and doors are highly charged, marking departures 
characterized by a rich and tense ambivalence. The woman who embarks on 
a journey, whether in fiction or in life, is forever looking back to the home she 
has made and to the domestic roles that have made her; only with skepticism 
does she look forward to “self-realization” or “individual freedom,” for her 
travel narrative 1s not the “traditionally masculine story emphasizing heroism 
and conquest” (xi). The male journey is more single-minded, more rectilinear. 
Thus in Cather’s fiction the conspicuous presence of trains is something more 
than historical. That the rather feminine anti-hero in “Paul’s Case” throws 
himself in front of a train is a measure of how incompatible the two kinds of 
journeys are. In her autobiographical “Postscript,” Stout, who is also a 
novelist, asks the question, “Had we ever heard anyone ask a man which he 


19. Not to be overlooked is a brilliant essay by Julian Barnes on Edith Wharton, her 
automobile, and Henry James, who called the novelty “the vehicle of passion.” In Something to 
Declare: Essays on France (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2002): 59-70. 

20. See The Journey Narrative in American Literature: Patterns and Departures (Westport, CT: 
Greenwood Press, 1983). 

21. Janis P. Stout. Through the Window, Out the Door: Women’s Narratives of Departure, from Austin 
and Cather to Tyler, Morrison and Didion (Tuscaloosa: The U of Alabama P, 1998). 





RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 471 


wanted, a family or a career?” (230).” 

Marilyn C. Wesley’s recent study~ is dedicated to women’s travel too, but 
it takes up the subject as a trope in the works of a wide variety of writers—such 
as John Greenleaf Whittier, Harriet Jacobs, Sara Orne Jewett, Eudora Welty, 
and Elizabeth Bishop—most of whom are not treated at any length in the 
other, related studies examined here. Wesley’s thesis is deeply informed by 
Freud and Lacan, but also by the work of Eric Leed,” who sees travel and 
stasis in a dialectical relationship, whereby travel defines masculinity and stasis 
its necessary opposite. The old opposition brings to mind “A Valediction: 
Forbidding Mourning,” which John Donne, about to embark on a journey to 
the Continent, wrote with his wife in mind. If their two souls are indeed two, 
he said, then they are like the legs of a compass, his the leg that roams, hers 
the fixed one that makes his “circle just.” Wesley examines then how gender 
is defined, or redefined, “in encounters between the codes of female stasis and 
the challenges of feminine movement” (xiii-xiv). As one might predict, when 
the woman becomes the roaming foot of the compass she resists the design 
of the whole apparatus, which is subject to being dismantled and then 
reassembled in a different way. Wesley argues, moreover, that feminist 
theories of victimization and resistance obscure this dynamic and constructive 
narrative trope: “to trace the trajectory of the woman traveler throughout 
American literature is to tell a vital secret about a revolutionary paradigm of 
female agency that in an array of conformations has been there all along” 
(137). It would be interesting to see how this might apply to Elizabeth 
Robins, whose two novels about the gold rush, The Magnetic North and Come 
and Find Me, were shaped by her travels in Alaska.” 

Closely related to Wesley’s study is Sidonie Smith’s.” Like Wesley, 
Smith has been profoundly influenced by Leed’s work, but her focus 1s 
different in two ways. Her emphasis, first of all, is on the twentieth century; 
and her main concern is how women have redefined femininity through their 
travels, and how the various modes of modern travel—foot, air, train, and 
automobile—have themselves been redefined as they have come to be used by 


22. A greater concentration on contemporary writers can be found in Women, America, and 
Movement: Narratives of Relocation, ed. S. L. Roberson (Columbia: U of Missouri P, 1998), a 
collection of essays by thirteen scholars, who cover such writers as Kaye Gibbons, Sandra 
Cisneros, Bharati Mukherjee, Louise Erdrich, and Zora Neale Hurston. 

23. Marilyn C. Wesley. Secret Journeys: The Trope of Women’s Travel in American Literature (Albany: 
State U of New York P, 1999). 

24. Eric J. Leed. The Mind of the Traveler: From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism. (New York: Basic 
Books, 1991). 

25. She kept a travel diary that has recently been made available in an elegant volume, The 
Alaska-Klondike Diary of Elizabeth Robins: 1900, eds. Victoria Joan Moessner and Joanne E. 
Gates (Fairbanks: U of Alaska P, 1999). 

26. Sidonie Smith. Moving Lives: Twentieth-Century Women’s Travel Writing (Minneapolis: The U 
of Minnesota P, 2001). 


472 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


women. The automobile, for example, which took women to jobs, to school, 
to “activities outside domesticity,” was gradually “feminized” as its 
manufacturers recognized the new market (175). The chosen mode of travel, 
naturally, also shapes what the traveler writes. Walking, for example, allows 
the modern traveler to dress and behave as the local inhabitants do and to 
assume the identity of a “premodern” woman (32). This escape from the 
constraints of the modern world, however, is a complicated one, as it 1s made 
possible by the amenities of the modern West and its notion of the individual, 
to whom all worlds, all possible selves, are accessible. Such are the 
experiences of Alexandra David-Neel and Robyn Davidson. With this 
specialized focus, then, Smith examines a host of modern travelers—such as 
Isabelle Eberhardt, Amelia Earhart, Anne Morrow Lindbergh, MaryMorris, 
Daphne Marlatt, and Irma Kurtz—and shows how they “disentangle travel 
from its masculine logic” (28). 

Wesley and Smith both resist the temptation to suggest that women 
travelers are in some way essentially different from men, or somehow more 
humane, but the temptation is still palpably there. With regard to this 
temptation, most of the essays in Travel Writing and the Female Imaginary’ are 
admirably sober and restrained. Ludmilla Kostova’s “Constructing Oriental 
Interiors” is a study of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu and Elizabeth Craven. 
Like Chung, Kostova examines the privileged access these two travelers had 
to such “well-guarded, interior spaces” as the harem, “which male travellers 
could only fantasise about” (17). Craven, however, “by far the more 
conservative,” prefigures “some of the more objectionable” Western attitudes 
to the East; and this suggests, says Kostova, “that the views of certain 
theorists about the existence of an alternative feminine tradition within 
Western travel writing dangerously border on wish fulfilment rather than on 
serious critical reading and thinking” (32). 

Alison D. Goeller’s essay treats the works of Osa Johnson and Mary 
Morris, showing how modern women reject the role of Penelope and “become 
female Odysseuses,” exploring not only the landscapes without but the 
landscapes within: the travel narratives of these women, says Goeller, 
“become accounts of their psychic journeys towards wholeness and, 
paradoxically, a sense of home” (64). (This latter point, incidentally, nicely 
accords with Schriber’s thesis.) Maria Rosa Giordani, writing about Beryl 
Markham’s West usth the Night, says that in this work can be seen “the ancient 
identification between women and land”: Markham, she says, describes the 
land “emotionally,” “becomes part of it,” and thus, without attempting to take 
possession of it, “preserves its magical and mysterious qualities” (95). And 
Raffaella Baccolini, writing about Joan Didion’s Sa/vador, examines how the 
author, deeply disturbed by her Central American experience, leaves herself 
on the outside of her own book. “The very structure of the book—the 


27. Vita Fortunati, Rita Monticelli, and Maurizio Ascari, eds. Travel Writing and the Female 
Imaginary (Bologna: Patron, 2001). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 473 


deconstructed memos juxtaposed to details of violence—together with the 
unsettlement and dislocation the author experiences provide a powerful 
indictment of violence in El Salvador and transform Didion’s travelogue from 
an ‘invasion’ of the self onto the ‘other’ into a questioning genre” (107). 
Whether this is peculiarly feminine or not is perhaps tmmatertal; but as 
Baccolini says, “travel leaves a mark on the traveller” (101). Other essays in 
this engaging volume treat such subjects as how Vita Sackville-West 
transformed the genre of the travel narrative, how gender influences the 
construction of otherness in the work of Olivia Manning, and how Robyn 
Davidson’s Tracks represents “a new way of writing the desert”: like Didion, 
she remains a “dislocated subject” in a land she does not quite understand 
(116). 

There are also two essays on Anna Jameson. Maurizio Ascari examines 
how melancholy becomes “a powerful instrument of introspection and self- 
knowledge” (42) in Jameson’s The Diary of an Ennuyée, which thus stands apart 
from “the euphoric mainstream tradition of travel accounts” (35) and 
“contributed to the revitalisation of a literary genre” (37). Rita Monticelli, on 
the other hand, studies how Jameson’s Winter Studies and Summer Rambles in 
Canada teveals the author’s awareness that the travel account “1s a translation 
between experience and representation”; this awareness, moreover, 
“exemplifies how travel and writing become a metaphor for reciprocity and 
how the meaning of a journey is construed by the act of writing itself” (47). 
Travel as translation: again, interest in this identification seems to be growing. 

Ahighly perceptive study of nineteenth-century American waiters in Italy 
is Leonardo Buonomo’s Backward Glances.* Concentrating on a few 
representative figures—Margaret Fuller, Julia Ward Howe, Nathaniel 
Hawthome, James Fenimore Cooper, William Dean Howells, Henry T. 
Tuckerman, and Henry P. Leland—Buonomo shows how their experience of 
Italy helped to define their own American identities. The particular works that 
Buonomo examines all predate the Resorg:mento, a fact that informs his study 
in a profound way. It is this, in part, that prompts the “backward glances” of 
his American travelers, for whom Italy, divided and occupied by foreign 
powers, clarifies the political achievement of the United States. But the 
experience is a complex one; among these writers, the ravages of American 
industrialization prompt another, historical, kind of “backward glance,” and 
the result is nostalgia, a fear that Italy, as it becomes modern, will lose its 
picturesque qualities, its cultivation of beauty, and, particularly in the south, 
its Oneness with nature and aloofness from the stream of time. In the letters, 
poems, fiction and autobiography represented here, the dominant tone is 
paternalistic, even when the author is awoman. These writers—and this is also 
true of other artists, such as the sculptor, William Wetmore Story—felt that 
Italy needed to be represented, and thus preserved, in art made by outsiders. 


28. Leonardo Buonomo. Backward Glances: Exploring Italy, Reinterpreting America (1831-1866) 
(Cranbury, NJ: Associated University Presses, Inc., 1996). 


474 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


Buonomo is drawing here from an ethnographical essay by James Clifford,” 
whose work is becoming increasingly important to hodoeporical studies. 

Larzer Ziff's Return Passages is also a study of “backward glances.” 
Covering the period between the Revolution and the First World War, Ziff 
focuses on five writers: John Ledyard, John Lloyd Stephens, Bayard Taylor, 
Mark Twain, and Henry James. These writers, says Ziff, were dynamic: as 
they traveled, their sensibilities broadened and grew more elastic. When 
Twain visited India he witnessed a “density of humanity,” says Ziff, which 
drew him out of himself, leaving him with an appetite for human diversity that 
remained insatiable and animated his work long after his traveling days were 
over (220-21). This seems to be a recurring trait in the best American wnters. 
James said that European writers did not have to deal with America, but that 
every American writer, in one way or another, had absolutely to deal with 
Europe. America would achieve its particular identity only by absorbing what 
was good about European civilization and then making it new. In his full 
maturity, however, James achieved an even clearer, more inclusive vision. He 
came to accept the fact that the Italy he had loved 1n his youth was changing. 
In “Italy Revisited,”*’ he recounts how, while walking in Florence one 
evening, he was drawn to a shrine, which he approached “with a reverent, an 
emotional step.” In the air, he sensed “‘an incongruous odour.” It was the 
petroleum emanating from a votive lamp, “the essence,” he realized, “of 
Pennsylvania” and “a symbol of the Italy of the future.” He “burst out” in a 
laughter of acceptance (113-14). This, says Ziff, 1s “Henry James the traveler 
at his best, recognizing the aspiration of the land he visits as well as the 
aspiration that brought him there and accepting his responsibility for the 
changes that aesthetically he might deplore because it 1s, after all, as a 
beneficiary of the new that he is able to visit the old” (257-58). All of these 
writers were able, he says, to communicate a “heightened self-awareness” and, 
thereby, “to move readers to question the unexamined familiarities of their 
own lives” (7). Return Passages is eloquent, its natural unity arising not from 
any theoretical construct but from what James might have called “the real 
thing.” 

Quite compatible with Ziff’s thesis and Buonomo’s ts that of Malcolm 
Bradbury, who, in Dangerous Pilgrimages,” a book that has been many years in 
the making, examines the novels of a vast array of English and American 
writers. Holding this immensely rich book together is the idea that the 
journey, in particular the Atlantic crossing, has been the single most influential 
shaping force on the novel. No matter on which side of the Atlantic they 


29. James Clifford. “On Ethnographic Allegory” in Writing Culture:The Poetics and Politics of 
Ethnography, eds. James Clifford and George E. Marcus (Berkeley: U of California P, 1986). 
30. Return Passages: Great American Travel Writing, 1780-1910 (New Haven: Yale UP, 2000). 
31. In Italan Hours (New York: The Ecco Press, 1987). 

32. Malcolm Bradbury. Dangerous Pilgrimages:Transatlantic Mythologies and the Novel (New York: 
Viking Penguin, 1996). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 475 


were formed, the novelists Bradbury discusses--from Washington Irving to 
Martin Amis--all travel to the other side and back, both literally and in their 
novels, so that writer and character alike are defined by the Europe-America 
dialectic. Both places are fictions: “Europe invented America,” says Bradbury, 
“and then America in turn invented Europe,” and thus “a major and risky 
adventure of the modern imagination began,” whereby “image generated 
image, and myth generated myth” (485). Transatlantic and other crossings, so 
much easier and frequent today, have in effect sustained the novel, which 
seems to reinvent itself as the two worlds continue to reinvent each other. 
There is no end here of backward glances. 

Patrick Holland and Graham Huggan have a great deal of territory to 
cover—travel writing since the Second World War—in Tourists nith Typenriters.* 
The authors, lamenting the fact that “to some extent” travel writing “remains 
a refuge for complacent, even nostalgically retrograde, middle-class values,” 
propose a decidedly political thesis: “that travel writing frequently provides an 
effective alibi for the perpetuation or reinstallment of ethnographically 
superior attitudes to ‘other’ cultures, peoples, and places” (viii). The “English 
gentleman,” for example, becomes “a rhetorical device used, most ironically, 
by several contemporary British travel writers as a means of reinstalling a 
mythicized imperial past,” but travel writing can also be an effective 
“4nstrument of imperial critique” (xi). Thus, V.S. Naipaul’s The Enigma of 
Armival is seen as “an antitravel text that both disables forward movement and 
debilitates the nostalgic energies that sustain regressive myths” (45).** And 
books by Caryl Phillips and Jamaica Kincaid are seen as “extended diatribes 
against European cultural prejudices and, more particularly, against the 
destructive value-systems enshrined in hierarchies of race” (48). 

When Holland and Huggan focus on places—the Orient, the tropics, the 
South Seas, and the Arctic—they treat them as “topoi,” each of which “lends 
itself to prevalent modes of imperialistic nostalgia and to atavistic stereotypes 
about originary cultural states” (xu). The authors discuss at length, and 
insightfully, how Roland Barthes “invites the reader . . . to accept ‘Japan’ as a 
semiotic system” (89), but they use Pierre Loti as an easy target. Of course 
Madame Chrysanthéme 1s a “surface celebration of Japan,” and Loti’s belittling 
views of the Japanese are quite contemptible. The authors indict him for his 
“inability to engage with Japan” and yet they completely overlook Alan Booth, 
a recent traveler who lived in Japan for many years, was fluent in Japanese, 
and wrote about that country better perhaps than any Westerner has ever 
done. His two books, The Roads to Sata: A 2000-Mil Walk Through Japan 


33. Patrick Holland and Graham Huggan. Tourists with Typewriters: Critical Reflections on 
Contemporary Travel Writing (Ann Arbor: The U of Michigan P, 1998). 

34. See also S. Shankar’s chapter on Naipaul in Textual Traffic: Colomialism, Modernity, and the 
Economy of the Text (New York: State U of New York P, 2001). Here Shankar examines the 
parallels between the experience of Naipaul and that of Richard Wright, both of whom make 
similar journeys back to their ancestral homelands. 


476 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


(1986) and Looking for the Lost: Journeys Through a Vanishing Japan (1995), are not 
mentioned at all, a most regrettable omission. 

“Gender and Other Troubles,” the third chapter, “is an inquiry into 
travel writing’s transgressive potential, focusing on its capacity to analyze and 
transform gender perception and on the outlet it provides for sexual play and 
queer performativity” (xii). Here the authors argue “that women’s travel 
writing is more directly personal-more revealing of the writer’s own 
emotions—than men’s” (114). Discussed are Dervla Murphy, Mary Morris, 
and of course Jan Morris. But there are a couple of regrettable omissions in 
this chapter too. Sybille Bedford’s The Sudden View (1953), one of the most 
poetic books ever written about Mexico, is not mentioned at all. And 
although the authors discuss Isherwood’s Berkn Stones, they make no mention 
of The Condor and the Cows (1949), a memoir of his own travels in Mexico. 

The final chapter, “Postmodern Itineraries,” is particularly strong. 
According to the authors, “postmodern travel books are almost invariably 
metanarratives, reflecting on their own status as texts—as sheoretical texts—on 
travel.” This is especially true of Calvino, Barthes and Eco; Chatwin and 
Theroux, however, are shown to have written books that are “more or less 
self-reflexive constructions” (158). The strength of this book lies in its 
breadth of coverage, which extends indeed to the advent of electronic media. 
Will the future bring more ethical, “New Age” forms of tourism, the authors 
ask, or succumb to the risk of “aestheticizing nature as an object of 
wonderment and control” (195)?*° 

In her introduction to Travel Culture® Carol Traynor Williams makes an 
important observation. “Until just a few years ago,” she says, “the term ‘travel 
culture’ would have meant ‘travel literature,’ and almost all of that was 
bypassed as ‘light, even though much of it was written by ‘serious’ writers,” 
and despite the great proliferation of traveling writing over the last twenty 
years or So, studies of the contemporary culture of travel remain relatively few 
(xiv). This volume addresses both matters, offering thirteen essays that treat 
the subject of travel not strictly as a literary phenomenon but from a variety 
of points of view. In fact, the essays that could be called “literary” such as 
John W. Presley’s “D. H. Lawrence in Taos” are in the minoritiy. David 
Espey’s study of travel and the element of childhood, for example, is 
psychological. Graham Greene, Bruce Chatwin, Paul Fussell, Paul Theroux, 
Jonathan Raban: all of them are travelers in search of a “fundamental sense 
of home” and are driven by “the presence of the child within” (67). “Touring 
America in a Model T,” by David Tomlinson, is historical, and there are also 


35. With regard to the modern period, see also Casey Blanton’s Travel Writing: The Self and the 
World (New York: Twayne, 1997). After a brief overview of the Grand Tour, Casey offers 
focused chapters on Graham Greene, Peter Matthiessen, V.S. Naipaul, Bruce Chatwin, and 
Paul Theroux., and also a useful bibliographical essay. 

36. Carol Traynor Williams, ed. Travel Culture: Essays on What Makes Us Go (Westport, CT: 
Praeger, 1998). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 477 


essays on Walt Disney and popular history, on Route 66 and tourism, and on 
the distinction, if one can be made at all, between travelers and tourists.” For 
the literary scholar, reading these essays 1s illuminating, for it reminds one that 
travelike all the other human impulses that the writer may represent—has an 
existence that is quite independent of everything that goes by the name of 
literature. 

The Poetics of Imperraksm appeared first in 1991, but the author, Eric 
Cheyfitz, has recently produced an expanded edition.** This book is of 
interest here not merely because of the timely appearance of this new edition 
but because it implicates the act of translation—seen in both its concrete and 
most elusive manifestations—as a tool of colonization. When The Tempest was 
first produced, “eloquence,” says Cheyfitz, “was still conceived of as the 
prime technology, the primary motive force in transforming the world” (23). 
It is through language, of course, that Prospero works his magic and takes 
possession of the island, and it is through language that European travelers 
dispossessed, or translated, the inhabitants of the New World. To translate, 
Cheyfitz believes, is to take possession by transforming the Other into an 
inferior version of the self, of the translator, who aggressively erases, or 
attempts to erase, all signs of difference. It is a “European process,” says 
Cheyfitz, which works like this: first, Native Americans were brought, or 
translated, “into the realm of the proper,” a European cultural space that made 
identity and ownership of property interdependent; then, because they did not 
seem to own any property, it followed logically that they were less than human 
(58). The traveler, therefore, early or modern, is also, and in every sense of the 
word, a translator. Translation, whether it involves people or languages, 
always renders the unfamiliar familiar, depriving it of originality, making it 
vulnerable and ready for subjugation. Translation also happens in visual 
representation: the subject of Cheyfitz’s new 38-page chapter on early 
European drawings of Native Americans. Nor is translation a vice strictly of 
the unenlightened past; as it is very much at work today, says Cheyfitz, in the 
exploitative politics of the developed West. 

Is there a more concrete link between linguistic translation and this more 
inclusive kind? James Clifford hardly concerns himself with language or travel 
writing at all in Rowies.” It is an ethnographical study, but it deserves mention 
here because of its theoretical value. His thesis is that there is hardly such a 
thing as a static or pure culture; that all cultures are by nature always on the 
move, always defining and redefining themselves, even when they are housed 


37. For a study of the presence of the highway in American literature, see Kris Lackey's Road 
Frames: The American Highway Narrative (Lincoln and London: U of Nebraska P, 1997). 


38. Eric Cheyfitz. The Poetics of Imperialism: Translation and Colonization from The Tempest to 
Tarzan (Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1997). 


39. James Clifford. Routes: Travel and Translation in the Late Twentieth Century (Cambridge: 
Harvard U P, 1997). 


478 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


in museums. “Cultural action,” he says, “the making and remaking of 
identities, takes place tn the contact zones, along the policed and transgressive 
intercultural frontiers of nations, peoples, locales. Stasis and purity are 
asserted—creatively and violently—agacnst historical forces of movement and 
contamination” (7). His focus is on the migrations, displacements and 
diasporas of today, and the book is a strange, amorphous one--a combination 
of scholarly essays, interviews, meditations, and lists—as indefinable and 
unstable as Clifford’s own vision of human culture. By “translation” he 
means what happens when one culture encounters another and appropriates 
part of it as its own. It is an imperfect process, equally applicable, as he sees 
it, even to the ethnographer, who can only understand, or “translate,” another 
culture subjectively, and whose act of translation, because it is itself a cultural 
encounter, leaves both cultures a bit changed. “Cross-cultural translation is 
never entirely neutral; it is enmeshed in relations of power,” and “what is 
brought over,” he says, is always “something different” (182). 

In this book, then, translation has little to do with language, but the 
implications for translation in the linguistic sense are compelling, especially 
with regard to Lawrence Venuti’s imperative that a literary translator ought to 
“foreignize” the target language when bringing alien material into it.” 
Translation, he feels, ought to unsettle and change the translator’s culture, part 
of which, of course, involves language. It is “highly desirable today,” he says, 
“to restrain the ethnocentric violence of translation” (20). Whether one agrees 
with this or not is less interesting than the fact that these two scholars, 
working in two different disciplines, show an intriguing affinity: they may very 
well be acting on the same awareness that culture is indeed made on the 
borders, that it is born of encounters between two cultures, or, more 
specifically, two languages.” 

Clearly, literary scholars want this affinity to be explained in concrete 
terms. For not doing so, Clifford has been sternly taken to task by Michael 
Cronin in Across the Lines (102-104). Cronin’s goal is to study how language 
forms the identity “of both the traveller and the other in a cross-section of late 
twentieth-century travel accounts” (2) He divides travelers into three 
categories: those whose native language is used but made strange in a foreign 
land, those whose native language is of no use them in a foreign land, and 
those who, unable or unwilling to use the language of a foreign land, must 
resort to other semiotic systems, such as hand gestures. These categories 
reflect Roman Jakobson’s tripartite division of translation: intralingual, 
interlingual, and intersemiotic. “When the source language of experience and 


40. Lawrence Venuti. The Translator’s Invisibility: A History of Translation (London: Routledge, 
1995). 


41. This affinity was, to my knowledge, first noticed by Kate Sturge in her review of Row/es in 
The Translator 4.2 (1998): 375-379. 


42. Michael Cronin. Across the Lines: Travel, Language, Translation (Cork: Cork U P, 2000). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 479 


the target language of account are the same,” says Cronin, “translation does 
not seek invisibility. It becomes more urgent than ever” (38). Oddly enough, 
it is in the interlingual experience that the translation work of the traveler is 
most likely to become invisible. Here Cronin, giving special emphasis to 
Robert Byron and Bruce Chatwin, examines the matter of self-effacement as 
it pertains both to the traveler and to the translator, who are often one and the 
same. Cronin also examines the “consequences” of seeing translation “as a 
nomadic practice and translators as key figures in a nomadic conception of 
late modernity” (4). Travel and translation are fundamental, and closely 
related, human compulsions: “the traveller as translator and the translator as 
traveller,” says Cronin, “have much to teach us about learning to navigate a 
life on a post-Babelian planet” (157). Across the Lines is, to my knowledge, the 
first book to offer a sustained analysis of this important relationship. 
Following hard upon the heels of Cronin’s book is Loredana Polezz1’s, 
Translating Travel.” Her intention is to examine why scholars of Italian 
literature have written so little about Italian travel narratives and “to show that 
Italian travel writing not only exists, it 1s a vital area of contemporary Italian 
culture” (1). Her emphasis, however, is on how Italian travel books are 
transplanted into the English-speaking world. Concentrating on the works of 
Oriana Fallaci, Italo Calvino and Claudio Magris, Polezzi examines the 
originals and their English translations closely, in order to see what kinds of 
transformations take place during the journey into the target culture. Her goal 
is not to reveal inaccuracies or instances of the translator’s unfaithfulness. An 
“adherence to a myth of faithfulness,” she says, “renders a productive 
discussion of the historical and ideological functions of both travel writing 
and translation impossible” (208). The goal, rather, should be to see the 
result “for what it is: a fact, determined by the historical, cultural and literary 
circumstances of the production and reception of both source and target 
texts” (209). Whether the translator is aware of such circumstances or not, 
they are at work in one way or another, deciding which works get translated 
and which do not, which parts get suppressed and which emphasized, and at 
times even effecting subtle generic shifts. Magris’s Danubio, for example, 
consists of a multiplicity of voices. This feature, which is characteristic of his 
work,” is suppressed in Patrick Creagh’s translation, and so, in part, are the 
complexities of Magris’s diction and syntax (196-198). His irony, moreover, 
is “played down,” and the whole book, because of these “translation 
strategies” and because of the way in which the translation was marketed and 
reviewed, was assimilated into “the tradition of English travel writing” (199- 
200). 
Polezzi, moreover, rather than criticizing Clifford for not discussing 
translation in its linguistic sense, tries to clarify the important implications of 


43. Loredana Polezzi. Translating Travel: Contemporary Italian Travel Writing in English Translation 
(Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2001). 


44. See especially his short tale Le voci (Genova: Il Melangolo, 1995). 


480 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


his more inclusive use of the term. In hodoeporical studies, says Polezzi, 
there has been a “lack of attention to translation,” and this she quite rightly 
calls “paradoxical”; for the obvious “metaphorical association” between the 
two activities rests on very real “issues of language, power and 
representation,” issues “which are central both to the production and 
reception of travel writing” (1-2). Her approach, then, 1s to see translation as 
“a material condition of the transfer of texts from one culture to another” but 
also as “a methodological and analytical framework which can highlight 
constraints and characteristics of the texts under examination (both originals 
and translated versions), as well as those of the audiences they address and the 
literary and critical traditions they enter” (2). Translation, that is, understood 
in its linguistic sense, is a concrete manifestation of that more inclusive 
phenomenon that occurs when two cultures meet. Other studies of this 
relationship have appeared, but they have been brief and tentative.* Polezzi’s 
seems to be the first extended synthesis of the work of ethnographers such as 
Clifford and translation theorists such as Venuti. 

Perhaps the most bracing theoretical corrective to appear in recent years 
is Travel Writing and Empire,* the aim of which, as Steve Clark says in his 
introduction, is “to stress the diachronic dimension” of travel writing, 
particularly as it regards colonialism (4). But in this introduction, which 1s 
richly informed, Clark also examines the strengths and weaknesses of scholars 
such as Said and Mary Louise Pratt, who have helped to lay important 
theoretical foundations. In a similar vein, some of the other essays, written by 
eleven other contributors, carry out a rigorous examination of theories that 
have too often been followed unquestioningly. John Hutnyk’s, for example, 
is a humbling critique of Clifford’s Rowfes and its impact on cultural studies, 
but the conclusion is constructive. Hutnyk acknowledges the need to 
understand and intervene in “the violence and exploitation” associated with 
travel, but asserts that in order to do this one also needs “a critical perspective 
grounded in a practical politics”; otherwise, anthropology, ethnography, and, 
by implication, cultural studies in general, will remain “only so much sight- 


45. See Writes of Passage: Reading Travel Writing, eds. James Duncan and Derek Gregory 
(London: Routledge, 1999). “Just as textual translation cannot capture all of the symbolic 
connotations of language or the alliterative sound of words,” say the editors in their 
introduction, “the translation of one place into the cultural idiom of another loses some of the 
symbolic loading of the place for its inhabitants and replaces it with other symbolic values”; 
this process, moreover, which involves losses and gains that do not occur innocently, “is shot 
through with relations of power and of desire” (4-5). See especially the essay by Robert 
Shannan Pekham, “The Exoticism of the Familiar and the Familiarity of the Exotic: Fin-de-siécle 
Travellers to Greece” (164-184). 


46. Steve Clark. Travel Writing and Empire: Postcolonial Theory in Transit (London: Zed Books, 
1999). 


RECENT ENGLISH STUDIES OF TRAVEL LITERATURE 481 


seeing” (62).*7 John Phillips, in the following essay, writes about Homi 
Bhabha and whether or not theory can travel. “By taking theory on a trip,” 
says Phillips, Bhabha “must simultaneously maintain a certain rationality while 
undermining it as its very source,” a journey that may be “impossible” but also 
“necessary” (63). Other essays, spanning the centuries, treat either particular 
travelers, from Hakluyt to Chatwin, or such subjects as cannibalism and 
infanticide and how, through travel accounts, they are imported, exported, or 
fabricated. 

Most of the studies surveyed here concentrate on the long journey; 
relatively little has been written about pedestrian travel. De Botton cites De 
Quincy’s “estimate that Wordsworth had walked between 175,000 and 
180,000 miles over his lifetime” (132). And Wordsworth, of course, was not 
alone. He was a part of whole culture of walking. For this reason, Robin 
Jarvis’s Romantic Writing and Pedestrian Travel* is of great interest. By the end 
of the eighteenth century, says Jarvis, “pedestrian touring [...] was a practice 
of rapidly growing popularity among the professional, educated classes,” and 
what they wrote was not only shaped by this habit but “consumed and 
reviewed in the same way as other travel literature” (12). Naturally, Jarvis 
devotes whole chapters to Wordsworth and Coleridge. One chapter, however, 
is reserved for “those outside the ranks of the culturally empowered”; here, 
taking up the issues of gender and class, Jarvis shows how Dorothy 
Wordsworth and John Clare, who also “achieved distinction as writers 
through their walking,” did so “against the pressure of very different 
ideological constraints” (155). 

The literature of travel, then, seems infinitely various. Even the Cambnidge 
Companion to Travel Writing” has had to adopt some fairly arbitrary limitations: 
accounts written in English and published in England since the year 1500. 
This guide, put together by fifteen scholars, is divided into three parts: 
historical essays that survey the major developments, from the first travelers 
to venture beyond England’s shores to those who, today, travel so that they 
may write; essays dedicated to the ways in which writers have treated 
particular regions, namely the Middle East, South America, the Pacific islands, 
Africa, Ireland, India, and the American West; and, finally, methodological 
essays on gender, ethnography, and theoretical matters. Also included are a 
useful chronology and a carefully compiled bibliography of primary and 
secondary works. And yet the editors, Peter Hulme and Tim Youngs, have 
had to admit at the outset that their work “offers only a tentative map of a 


47. He answers his own call, in fact, in another recent collection of essays: Travel Worlds: 
Journeys in Contemporary Cultural Politics, eds. Raminder Kaur and Jobn Hutnyk (London: Zed 
Books, 1999). 


48. Jarvis, Robin. Romantic Writing and Pedestrian Travel (London: Macmillan, 1997). 


49. The Cambridge Companion to Travel Writing. Eds. Peter Hulme and Tim Youngs (Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 2002). 


482 CARMINE G. DI BIASE 


vast, little-explored area” (1). 

In this vast area, however, there is one element that recurs with 
conspicuous regularity. At the end of The Art of Travel, de Botton recounts 
how, upon reading Xavier de Maistre’s Journey around my Bedroom, he took a 
walk around his own bedroom and then around his own neighborhood, in an 
attempt to apply this eighteenth-century traveler’s practical lesson: how to see 
the familiar as if it were new and strange (249). It seems that all travelers, 
even those who do not go far or fast, are moved by a basic, irrepressible desire 
to keep the senses alive. One feels the thrill of this in Drake and Hawkins, in 
Frobisher and Raleigh. It is the same thrill that one feels in Enobarbus as he 
describes the exotic Cleopatra, or in Milton’s Satan who, catching his first 
sight of Eden, “Looks down with wonder at the sudden view / Of all this 
world at once” (III, ll. 542-543). Surely it was this passage that suggested the 
title for the English edition of Sybille Bedford’s book on Mexico, which recent 
scholarship, for some reason, seems to have relegated to oblivion. The thrill 
one feels in The Sudden View is the very same, and it comes, as always, from 
the promise of renewal. Perhaps it is true, as Clifford suggests, that all 
cultures—whether they move willingly or by force, whether they are obviously 
restless or seem isolated and static—are nevertheless perpetually on the move, 
perpetually renewing themselves. 


Jacksonville State University, Jacksonville, AL 


DOMINIQUE LANNI 





Etat présent des recherches en francais 
sur la littérature des voyages 


ne tradition fortement ancrée, qui puise ses sources dans cet 

académisme né au dix-septiéme siécle dans les colléges jésuites 

qu’ont successivement légitimé les théoriciens et historiens de la 

littérature, a longtemps imprimé sa marque sur les études de lettres 
et reyeté hors des marges de la littérature les journaux et récits de voyage. 
S’élevant des ténébres du Moyen Age, s’épanouissant 4 PAge classique et au 
siécle des Lumiéres, préférant le culte des auteurs canoniques 4 |’exhu- 
mation érudite des auteurs mineurs, et établissant entre les genres une hié- 
rarchie placant a son sommet la poésie et reléguant dans ses limbes les gen- 
res hybrides, cet académisme s’est quelque peu étiolé a l’Age romantique 
avant d’effectuer un véritable retour en force durant l’entre-deux guerres et 
de céder au cours des derniéres décades, concurrencé par des objets et 
problématiques neufs: la littérature bleue de colportage, la littérature philo- 
sophique clandestine, les littératures francophones.! Les études pionniéres 
de Geoffroy Atkinson, de Francois de Dainville, de Charles-André Julien et 
de Jacques Chupeau ont longtemps fait autorité en matiére de littérature 
des voyages.* Michel Mollat et Numa Broc les ont renouvelées,3 mais c’est 
surtout ces quinze derniéres années que les études parues en francais sur la 


1. Sur ces évolutions: Francois Moureau, “Le voyage dans la recherche francaise. Aspects 
théoriques et directions d’études,” Sehen und Beschreiben. Europaische Reisen im 18. und frihen 
19. Jahrhundert, Hg. Von Wolfgang Griep (Heide, Westholsteinische Verlagsanstalt Boyens 
& Co., 1991), p. 1-6 et “Les relations de voyage en dépit de la littérature? Une autre 
écriture...,” Romanistische Zeitschnift fir Literaturgeschichte, 26 (2002), p. 91-104. 


2. Geoffroy Atkinson, Les Nouveaux horizons de la Renaissance frangaise (Paris, Droz, 1935, 
Réimpr.: Genéve, Slatkine, 1969); Francois de Dainville, La Géographie des Humanistes (Paris, 
Beauchesne, 1940); Charles-André Julien, Les Voyages de découverte et les premiers Etablissements 
(XV*XVE- siécles) (Paris, PUF, 1948); Jacques Chupeau, “Les récits de voyage aux lisiéres 
du roman,” Revue d'Histoire Littéraire de la France, no° 3-4 (1977), p. 536-553. 

3. Michel Mollat, Les Explorateurs du XIIIe au XVIe siécles. Premiers regards sur des 
mondes nouveaux (Paris, Lattés, 1984); en collaboration avec Monique de La Ronciére, Les 
Portulans. Cartes marines du XIII° au XVIIF siécles, (Paris, Nathan, 1984); Numa Broc, La 


Géographie de la Renaissance (1420-1620) (Paris, Editions du C.THS., 1980; reimpr.: 
1986), “Format.” 


Annali &'Ttalianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


484 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


littérature des voyages se sont multipli€ées, empruntant des voies inédites, 
n’ayant de cesse d’explorer de nouveaux horizons. Longtemps marginales et 
quelque peu marginalisées, les études sur la littérature des voyages, genre 
éminemment hybride s’il en est, ont aujourd’hui acquis une certaine légi- 
timité et une certaine notabilité. La constitution de bibliographies primaites, 
la tenue de colloques, de journées d’études, de séminaires ont grandement 
contribué au renouvellement de ces études et attestent indéniablement de 
leur vitalité. 

La naissance il y a maintenant presque vingt ans du Groupe de Recher- 
ches sur la Littérature des Voyages, aujourd’hui Centre de Recherches sur la 
Littérature des Voyages, n’est pas étrangere a cette évolution. C’est en effet 
sous son égide qu’a été organisé 4 la Sorbonne et au Sénat le colloque con- 
sacré aux Métamorphoses du réct de voyage. Réunissant des contributions sur les 
modes d'écritures empruntés aux genres avoisinants, ce colloque a marqué 
ouverture d'une ére nouvelle dans les travaux portant sur l'énoncé via- 
tique.4 

Voyage et culture sont intimement liés: l’étude des voyages est indisso- 
ciable de l’tmagerie culturelle. Le voyage de l’érudit est d’abord un voyage 
littéraire qui s’effectue dans les tréfonds des bibliothéques; le voyageur est 
un lecteur avant d’étre un auteur. Mais les journaux, récits et relations 
composant ce que l’on nomme la littérature de voyages ne saurait étre 
réduit a une somme de sources livresques en vogue adroitement compilées 
et savamment agencées. S’y font en effet jour des schémas narratifs hérités 
des plus anciennes traditions littéraires. Les romans d’aventures et autres 
romans des lointains ne sont-ils pas a des degrés divers des avatars ina- 
voués de l’Odyssée? La part de métamorphose est inhérente a tout récit de 
voyage: plusieurs auteurs parmi ceux qui ont collaboré a ce volume le 
montrent, qu’il s’agisse de Jacques Prévot (“L’Autre Monde de Cyrano de 
Bergerac ou le Voyage libertin’’), de Jacques Huré (“‘Aurélia, deuxiéme 
voyage et récit de voyage — de Nerval en Orient’’) ou de Erdmute Wenzel 
White (“Métamorphoses lyriques: les découvertes de Pero Vaz Caminha et 
de Claude d’Abbeville. Naissance du modernisme”). Le voyage nait de I’é- 
change avec l’autre mais les auteurs de récits de voyages mélent sans scru- 
pule aventures réelles et imaginaires. La vérité est souvent ailleurs. Aussi la 
littérature de voyages et la littérature générale sont-elles beaucoup plus liées 
qu'il n’y parait de prime abord. Comme le rappelle fort justement Francois 


4. Francois Moureau, dir., Mésamorphoses du récit de voyage, préface de Pierre Brunel (Actes du 
Colloque de la Sorbonne et du Sénat, 2 mars 1985) (Paris, Champion-Slatkine, 1986), 
“Littérature des voyages.” Plusieurs volumes importants ont été publiés depuis dans la 
collection “Littérature des voyages” que dirige Frangois Moureau. Parmi ceux-ci: La Mer au 
siécle des Exncyclopédies, L'Tle, territoire mythique, Le Huguenot et le Sauvage, Vers l'Orient par la Grice: 
avec Nerval et d'autres voyageurs, Le Dossier Kerguelen, La Relation orientale. Enquéte sur la 
communication dans les récits de voyage en Orient, etc. 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANCAIS 485 


Moureau, “le récit de voyage a la respiration du roman, avec ses points 
forts, ses circonstances inattendues, ses personnages secondaires et ses 
héros” tandis que la fiction emprunte 4 la relation de voyage son rythme et 
sa structure. “Le pur récit de voyage est un accident de la littérature.’ 

L'Aventure améncaine de Pierre Berthiaume est un essai sur l’évolution 
des formes de l’Enoncé viatique.° S’inscrivant dans lesprit dans la continuité 
des études réunies dans le volume précédemment présenté, Métamorphoses du 
réct de voyages, Vauteur, s’appuyant sur un riche corpus de textes, montre que 
tout récit de voyage procéde d’une réécriture et d'une formalisation. Le récit 
que le voyageur donne 4 lire a ses supérieurs ou qu’il décide de faire pa- 
raitre ne correspond jamais exactement aux notes prises en mer, le voyageur 
prenant toujours le soin de les réécrire et de les formaliser avant de les 
communiquer a ses supérieurs ou a un imprimeur, dans la tradition ou 
selon les impératifs de ce mode de discours qu'est le journal de mer. Pierre 
Berthiaume reprend la distinction opérée par Numa Broc dans sa Géographie 
des philosophes entre le “voyage-itinéraire” et le “voyage-descriptif.” Celui-ci 
distingue en effet “le voyage-itinéraire spontané et pittoresque, dans lequel 
le lecteur suit les moindres déplacements de son guide” du “voyage-des- 
criptif qui forme un ouvrage plus composé, plus organisé, ot les matiéres 
sont distribuées méthodiquement et non chronologiquement.”7 Ce sont ces 
catégories que s'applique a reprendre et a préciser par rapport 4 ce modéle 
que constitue le journal de navigation et en fonction de I'intentionnalité du 
discours Pierre Berthiaume dans L’Aventure américaine. Il décrit et analyse 
ces quatre modes de récit pratiqués au dix-huitiéme siécle que sont le récit 
d'exploration “fondé sur la nécessité ou sur la volonté de rendre compte 
d'une “découverte” ou d'une recherche,” I'itinéraire de voyage “qui vise a 
rapporter l'expérience vécue,” le rapport d'expédition scientifique “qui sou- 
met la matiére du discours a un projet épistémologique” et la relation mis- 
sionnaire qui “subordonne le récit 4 des fins religieuses.”’ Pierre Berthiaume 
décrit et analyse aussi succinctement toutes ces formes qui participent de 
l'évolution de la relation de voyage en se substituant 4 d'autres formes. Via 
L’Aventure américatne, c’est donc une véritable théorie des récits de voyage et 
une éloquente schématisation de l'ensemble de la production viatique en 
fonction de l'évolution des formes au cours du dix-huitiéme siécle que 
donne 4 lire Pierre Berthiaume. 


5. Francois Moureau, “L’Imaginaire vrai,” in Métamorphoses du récit de voyage. “Plus le monde 
s’est ouvert, écrit Fran¢gois Moureau, plus s’est réduit le lieu du voyage. Mais dans la béance 
est né un territoire mythique qui évacue les continents abandonnés a l’activité productive 
de PHomme et renvoie a l’imaginaire vrai, la littérature” (167). 


6. Pierre Berthiaume, L’Aventure américaine au dix-huitiime siecle. Du voyage a Vécriture (Ottawa, 
Presses de l’Université d’Ottawa, 1990), “Cahiers du C.R.C.C.F.” 


7. Numa Broc, La Géographie des philosophes. Géographes et voyageurs francais au dix-huitieme sitcle 
(Paris, Ophrys, 1975), p. 58. 


486 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


Il n'est pas de récit de voyage sans détour par le monde des livres et 
c'est peut-étre dans l’espace de la mémoire et dans celui de la bibliothéque 
que se réalise ce que Christian Jacob désigne comme étant le “vrai voyage”. 
Explorer les espaces, analyser les images mentales véhiculées par les livres 
et colportées par les voyageurs lorsqu'ils parcourent le monde et lorsqu'tls 
couchent sur le papier le récit de leur voyage, tels sont les objectifs 
poursuivis par Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud et ses collaborateurs dans le 
numéro 7 de la revue Lziéraks paru en 1990. Y sont finement analysés les 
“filtres de la nouveauté” les “agents organisateurs du réel et de l'ex- 
périence” et les “principes actifs dans l'entreprise de production du sens.” 
Arpenter l'espace, rencontrer des hommes, tenter de fixer le souvenir de cet 
arpentage et de ces rencontres via le récit de voyage: qu’est-ce qu'un voyage 
sinon un parcours dont les balises constituent autant de repéres pour ancrer 
le souvenir, qu'il s'agisse d'un voyage poétique et imaginaire, a l'instar de la 
Périégese de la Terre halutée de Denys qu’étudie Christian Jacob (“Le voyage et 
le palimpseste. Les parcours de la lecture dans un manuel de géographie 
antique”) ou qu'il s’agisse d'un voyage réel et accompli, a l'instar du Voyage 
de Levant de Pitton de Tournefort qu’analyse Frank Lestringant (“L'Herbier 
des iles ou le Voyage de Levant de Joseph Pitton de Tournefort”). “Pa- 
tiente construction sous des dehors anodins, la relation, ainsi que la définit 
Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud, emprunte a ses modeéles de quoi élaborer 
un message.’® C’est en ce sens que Roland le Huenen s’intéresse a lutilité 
des récits de voyage et a l’utilisation qui en est faite (“Qu’est-ce qu’un récit 
de voyager’). Métamorphoser I’échec en succés: voici le but en direction 
duquel tendent aussi bien la relation de frére Pantaliao d'Aveyro, dont 
Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud met au jour les emprunts au modele du 
récit de pélerinage (“Récit de voyage et pérégrination: le cas de frére 
Pantaliao d’Aveyro”’), que les lettres des Jésuites en Nouvelle France. Les 
qualités persuasives du récit de voyage sont notamment étudiées par Daniel 
Claustre (“La Perlustration, ou comment explorer le Groénland”). Le récit 
est un guide. D’ou, 4 l’avénement de l’Age classique, des modeéles élaborés 
par des théoriciens pour décrire les lieux parcourus par le voyageur comme 
le montre Francine-Dominique Liechtenan qui s’est intéressée a l’itinéraire 
de Zwinger (“Theodor Zwinger, théoricien du voyage’). Normand Doiron 
analyse le voyage comme nouvelle “école de courtoisie” tandis que la cour 
“modele du monde”’ s'impose comme la référence en matiére de discours 
sur le monde (‘La dialectique classique du voyage et de la retraite”) Mais 
quelle que soit la maniére dont on s’y prenne pour appréhender la question 
des modéles du récit de voyage, “le récit est la fin derniére de l’entreprise 
pérégrine.” Et ce n’est pas Michel Bideaux qui affirmera le contraire, dont 
étude qu'il consacre au voyage littéraire clot le volume (“Le voyage 


8. Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud, dir., Les Modeles du réat de voyage. Littérales, n°7, 
Université de Paris X-Nanterre, 1990, p. 6-7. 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANCAIS 487 


littéraire: genése d'un genre’). 

C'est en 1990 également que parait le numéro 22 de la revue Dix-hui- 
lieme siécle consacré au voyage: L’ai/ expert: voyager, explorer? Apres les grandes 
syntheses cartographiques des seiziéme et dix-septiéme siécles et avant les 
explorations coloniales du XIX¢ siécle, le “raisonnable” XVIII¢ siécle sem- 
ble faire figure, selon l’expression de Francois Moureau, de “point aveugle 
du voyage d’exploration.” De ce siécle, on retient surtout les voyageurs du 
Pacifique, la découverte de Tahiti, les figures de Cook, Bougainville et La 
Pérouse. 


Cest peut-étre — ajoute Francois Moureau — parce que notre littérature 
et notre maniére de voir sont au dix-huitiéme siécle européocentriques, 
voire gallocentnques ou mémes platement parisiennes, que notre image 
des Lumiéres s’accommode assez peu des marges embarrassantes que 
sont ces pays de quelque part, trop présents pour faire fonctionner le 
modeéle utopique, trop “étranges” pour qu’on y reconnaisse d'emblée une 
contrée ou régne la “nature perfectionnée”’. (6) 


Francois Moureau rappelle qu’il y a deux maniéres de voyager au XVIII¢ 
siecle: celle ou l’on se retrouve et celle ot l’on se cherche. Les contributions 
réunies dans ce volume portent sur le second type de voyage, sur l’enquéte, 
ou le voyageur privilégie la conquéte de l'tnconnu au détriment de la 
reconnaissance du déja-vu. Le lieu de l’enquéte importe peu comparé 4 I’o- 
riginalité du regard. De nombreux journaux demeurés manuscrits enset- 
gnent au futur voyageur quelles sont les étapes qui vont composer son 
périple. L’ouvrage de Léopold Berchtold imprimé en 1789 constitue a ce 
sujet au XVIII siécle Pune des derniéres formalisations de ces méthodes de 
voyages qui s’inscrivent dans la tradition de l’ars morendi médiéval, comme 
l’a bien vu Elisabeth Chevallier (“Une méthode universelle pour voyager 
avec profit, par Léopold Berchtold”). Le XVIIIe siécle se caractérise par un 
élargissement des thémes d’intérét des voyageurs. Certaines régions comme 
la Perse, Ceylan ou la Chine attirent tout particuliérement l’intérét des 
ambassadeurs, des savants et des missionnaires, ainsi que le montrent 
Ananda Abeydeera (“Monneron, agent de la France a Ceylan”), Numa 
Broc (“Voyageurs frangais en Chine”) et Néguine Danechvar (“Cosmogo- 
nie politique de la Perse”). “Voyager peut alors se révéler une profession, 
note Francois Moureau, presque un sacerdoce. Le XVIIIe siécle n’est pas 
avare en “voyageurs errants,” selon l’heureuse expression de l’abbé Prévost 
dans I’ Histocre Générale des Voyages.” (Moureau, 9) 

Voyageurs errants dont Dampier et Mungo Park sont quelques-unes des 
figures emblématiques qu’étudient dans ce volume Denise Brahimi 


9. Francois Moureau, dir., “Présentation,” L’CEi expert: voyager, explorer. Dix-Huitiéme siécle, 
n° 22 (1990), p. 5-12. 


488 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


(“Mungo Park en Afrique, ou l’explorateur exploré’”) et Gérard Blanc 
‘Dampier, ou la relation des iles aux tortues”). Les voyages d’exploration 
ne sont jamais dépourvus d’enjeux politiques et les ambitions coloniales qui 
les sous-tendent se font rapidement jour dans les récits des voyageurs. 
Quand l’Europe scientifique se mobilise pour observer le passage de Vénus 
entre le Soleil et la Terre, l’Académie des Sciences ne dépéche pas moins de 
trois expéditions dont le détail nous est connu par les relations de Chappe 
d’Auteroche que présentent Catherine Claudon-Adhémar et Francis Clau- 
don (“Le Voyage en Sibérie de Chappe d’Auteroche”) et Pingré que com- 
mente Jean-Michel Racault (“Le Voyage de Pingré dans l’Océan Indien’). 
Mais les connaissances réunies a l’issue de ces voyages intégrent un savoir 
scientifique cumulatif qui s’inscrit en porte a faux avec l’esprit méme des 
Lumiéres. Tandis que les savants croulent littéralement sous les matériaux 
rapportés par les voyageurs, ces derniers comprennent que le savoir est 
insaisissable en dépit de leurs efforts sans cesse renouvelés pour le saisir 
dans sa totalité. Cependant, a l’inverse des seiziéme et dix-neuviéme siécles, 
il reste que le Siécle des Lumiéres semble “avoir placé, en bien des cas, 
l'enquéte avant la conquéte.” (Moureau 12) 

Cest la remarquable vogue des récits de voyage et des études portant 
sur la littérature des voyages qui incite Adrien Pasquali a dresser un état 
présent de la recherche en termes de théorie des récits de voyages, d'enjeux 
et de perspectives, en faisant paraitre Le Tour des horizons, un ouvrage au 
titre emblématique,!° comme le note Claude Reichler : 


Migration, nomadisme, commerce, religion, curiosité [...] — quels qu’en 
puissent étre les motifs, le déplacement dans lespace est une donnée 
anthropologique aussi fondamentale que l’alimentation ou l’organisation 
sociale, comme elles irréductible a des objectifs uniquement fonction- 
nels, et comme elles résistant 4 une vision mécaniste de ’humain. Investi 
immeédiatement de significations, le déplacement se redouble et se 
représente en méme temps qu'il s’effectue, et répond a des formations 
imaginaires et a des légitimations symboliques: rituels de départ ou 
d’accueil, idéalisation ou phobie de lailleurs, mythologies du franchisse- 
ment ou du retour, figures de dieux ou de héros[...]. Chaque société a 
ses Ulysses, ses Jasons; Moises ou (Edipes, chacune a ses errants. (XI) 


Faisant dialoguer relations de voyages et textes critiques, Adrien Pasquali 
s'applique a caractériser ce qui lie les modalités d'écriture des récits aux 
modalités de lecture des critiques, a définir les modalités du récit de voyage 
contemporain, a appréhender sur le plan textuel et non pas seulement 
thématique la question du genre du récit de voyage, a saisir les outils de sa 


10. Adrien Pasquali, Le Tour des horizons. Critique et récits de voyages (Paris, Klincksieck, 1994), 
“Avant-propos” de Claude Reichler. 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANCAIS 489 


syntaxe narrative, bref, 4 apprécier les conditions d'élaboration d'une 
typologie narrative des relations de voyage, renouvelant en le reprenant un 
sujet fort débattu. Adrien Pasquali méne une réflexion sur les lieux 
théoriques problématiques du récit de voyage. Aprés s'€tre intéressé a 
l'effervescence éditoriale qui entoure le récit de voyage, il analyse la relation 
que le voyage entretient avec la vision du monde. II revient sur les querelles 
qui opposent les chercheurs sur la fin de l'exotisme, sur celle des voyages et 
entreprend de définir les modalités du récit de voyage. Appréhendant le 
récit de voyage sur le plan générique, il recourt a la narratologie pour 
rompre avec les études thématiques et livre une analyse assez novatrice des 
telations existant entre l'énoncé viatique et l'énoncé poétique. Adrien 
Pasquali clét son étude en proposant au lecteur une typologie narrative des 
récits de voyage, en en soulignant la pertinence tout en en marquant les 
limites: 

Le présupposé systématique et taxinomique a provoqué depuis quelques 

années une forte méfiance a l’égard de la pensée typologique. Accusée de 

vouloir comprendre pour enclore, voire stériliser des pratiques d’écriture 

qui toujours seraient déviantes ou en exces, la typologie peut au contraire 

n’étre ni normative ni facteur de hiérarchisation. (142) 


Via cet ouvrage, l’universitaire suisse ne dresse pas seulement un état 
des lieux des travaux consacrés a la littérature des voyages, les interroga- 
tions qu'il souléve constituent en effet autant de stimulantes perspectives de 
recherches. 

En 1995 parait L'Art de voyager. Le déplacement a l'époque classique de 
Normand Doiron. C'est sur « L’épitre sur les voyages » de l'abbé de Lille 
que s’ouvre son étude: 


Le premier des plaisirs c’est celui de connaitre ; 
C’est pour lui qu’un Mortel, noblement curieux, 
S’arrache aux doux Pays ou vivaient ses Aieux. 


Partant de la premiére occurrence attestée du mot “voiage” au XIe siécle 
dans la Chanson de Roland et tappelant que c’est seulement vers la fin du 
quinziéme siécle que le mot acquiert son sens actuel, Normand Doiron 
pose que pour définir le voyage a l’époque classique il convient d’abord de 
réexaminer les conceptions antiques du déplacement dans l'espace. Si Enée 
et Ulysse n’ont pas été des voyageurs au sens modeme du terme, les 
humanistes ont fait des récits de leurs pérégrinations les modéles du 
deplacement moderne. La représentation du déplacement est avec Homére 
et Virgile a l'origine de la Renaissance. Ce sont en effet l’Odyssée dans le 
monde grec et l’Enéide dans le monde romain qui inspirent aux savants et 
aux €rudits leurs théories sur le voyage et sont a l'origine des arts de 
voyager. Ce que s’applique a montrer l'auteur dans son étude, c’est que les 


490 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


humanistes ont commenté ces textes fondateurs de maniére a ce qu'ls 
soient lus comme des récits de voyage, a ce qu'ils suggerent aux voyageurs 
d'tmiter Ulysse ou Enée, afin que leurs propres récits de voyage revétent la 
forme d'une grande épopée moderne en prose. Son étude portant 
principalement sur des relations issues de la littérature de voyage de la 
Nouvelle-France de passionnantes perspectives de recherches s’ouvrent 
pour ceux que passionnent les arts de voyager."! 

Dans Voyage et connaissance autour des Lumiéres, Nicole Hafid-Martin s’in- 
téresse a cette évolution du voyage qui, longtemps réservé a une élite aris- 
tocratique, devient progressivement l’apanage d’une génération de savants, 
le tournant des Lumiéres marquant le passage de la vogue des travaux de 
cabinet a l'ére des enquétes de terrain.!? 


Manifestation d'une énergie qui se déploie vers I’ Ailleurs, écrit l'auteur, le 
voyage exprime alors la volonté d’élargir la perception du monde tout 
autant que celle de vérifier les postulats des Lumiéres. (Hafid-Martin, 1) 


Les résultats des expéditions scientifiques de Cook, Bougainville et La Pé- 
rouse sont des plus encourageants. Cependant, de nombreux territoires 
restent a explorer, et notamment I'intérieur des continents. 


Toutefois, precise lauteur, bien que Vhorizon d’un savoir anthro- 
pologique s’élargisse notablement, les productions de la nature et les sites 
antiques attirent davantage l'attention que les peuples rencontrés. (2) 


Sur le plan ethnographique, le bilan n’est pas satisfaisant, les savants 
éprouvant des difficultés 4 rompre avec les mythologies véhiculées sur les 
sauvages et a tenir des discours qui ne soient marqués du sceau de 
l'européocentrisme. Cependant, comme le montre bien Nicole Hafid-Mar- 
tin, la possibilité de la naissance de nouvelles structures d’analyse passe par 
la fin des débats spéculatifs relatifs aux origines de l'homme. C'est parce 
que le débat qui oppose les monogénistes aux polygénistes demeure stérile 
que les savants privilégient la taxinomie des faits humains et jugent qu’un 
nouveau type d’enquéte s’impose. Si les écrits de Humboldt, Mungo Park et 
Chamisso font Pobjet de multiples analyses ponctuelles, deux figures sont 
privilégiées dans l'étude de Nicole Hafid-Martin: celles des voyageurs 
philosophes Volney et Potocki. Leur incommensurable curtosité fascine. 
Elle est sans doute la caractéristique la plus remarquable des savants de 
cette €poque. Héritée de l'esprit encyclopédique du siécle des Lumiéres, 


11. Normand Doiron, L’Art de voyager. Le déplacement a l’époque classique, (Sainte-Foy, Les 
Presses de Université Laval, Klincksieck, 1995), “Littératures des voyages.” 


12. Nicole Hafid-Martin, Voyage et connaissance autour des Lumitres (1780-1820) (Oxford, 
Voltaire Foundation, 1995), “Studies on Voltaire and Eighteenth Century.” 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANCAIS 491 


cette curiosité n'éprouve pas moins ses limites sur le terrain méme sur 
lequel évoluent les savants. Car le voyage est au tournant des XVIIIe et 
XTX¢ siécles plus que jamais un instrument au service de l’affirmation d’une 
supériorité politique et idéologique et en cela la connaissance positive se 
trouve entravée. Les travaux de Volney et Potocki ne sont pas exempts de 
contradictions mais ces contradictions sont la marque de cette époque. Les 
contours du systéme qu’ils s’appliquent 4 esquisser n’en laissent pas moins 
entrevoir de stimulantes perspectives pour les représentants des générations 
suivantes. 


Les deux savants — comme le montre remarquablement Nicole Hafid- 
Martin, dont la pensée s'écarte de la métaphysique — attribuent a l'homme 
la pleine responsabilité de son histoire et de son devenir. Et si, au contact 
de peuples étrangers, ’européocentrisme se cnistallise souvent comme 
modele cristallisateur, il n’en est pas moins infléchi vers une perception 
de lalterite. (5) 


Dans son Discours du voyageur Friedrich Wolfzettel ne s’intéresse pas aux 
voyages imaginaires, allégoriques, romanesques ou utopiques, ni a la 
littérature géographique, mais aux récits rendant compte de voyages réels et 
d’expériences de rencontres avec l’autre.!3 Il s’applique en effet a retracer 
histoire littéraire du récit de voyage. La question de la représentation de 
autre, la question de la subjectivité, l’exotisme, le mythe du bon sauvage 
sont autant de thématiques qu'il inscrit dans la problématique générale. Du 
Moyen Age au XVIIIe siécle, il caractérise les différents discours du voyage 
pour chaque époque en veillant 4 mettre en évidence, au sein de chacun de 
ces discours ce qu’il emprunte a son époque et quelle est sa raison d’étre. 
S’appuyant sur un riche corpus de textes, il explore cet “espace historique” 
qui s’achéve a l’avénement du dix-neuviéme siécle “au moment méme ou la 
crise de la tradition annonce des formes nouvelles” (Hafid-Martin 6). II 
montre comment, aprés des débuts hésitants, le systéme humaniste des 
lettres et des arts qui s’épanouit tout au long de l’époque modeme accorde 
progressivement un statut a part aux récits de voyages au sein de |’Histoire 
appréhendée comme discours narratif et descriptif, et comment il acquiert 
au seuil de l’Age romantique une dimension esthético littéraire. 

“Tl y a, dans toute entreprise référentielle, quelque chose qui reléve de 
l'tmpossible.” C'est sur cette affirmation que s’ouvre l’essai de Christine 
Montalbetti: Le Voyage, le monde et la libkothéque.'* Si la fiction crée son objet, 
l'écriture référentielle consigne un objet qui existe hors d'elle. Mais la 


13. Friedrich Wolfzettel, Le Discours du voyageur. Le récit de voyage en France, du Moyen Age au 
XVIIE siécle (Paris, PUF, 1996). 


14. Christine Montalbetti, Le Voyage, le monde et la bibliothéque (Paris, PUF, 1997), “Ecriture.” 


492 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


fiction n'ignore pas le monde, loin de la. Elle référe toujours par le biais 
d'un énoncé a un lieu, une personne ou un état qui référent au réel. Cette 
conception ménage dans la fiction des espaces de référence mais la maniére 
dont ces éléments sont insérés dans la fiction fait qu'ils fonctionnent 
comme des éléments purement fictionnels. Inversement, le texte référentiel 
élabore lui aussi son objet dans le sens ou tout énoncé procéde d'une 
réélaboration. Le récit de voyage offre a Christine Montalbetti l’opportunité 
de mettre en regard un objet, le voyage, et une somme de moyens, les 
procédés d'écriture, le lexique. Parce qu’il exige l’élaboration de stratégies 
plus ou moins argumentées de contournement, qu'il développe des 
solutions ponctuelles et qu'il fabrique les conditions de sa possibilité, le 
récit de voyage laisse apparaitre “une maniére de dialectique, dans laquelle 
le texte ne cesse d’hésiter entre la désignation de ses apories et la mise en 
place de principes de résolution par ou il les dépasse”’ (6). 

Christine Montalbetti formule deux hypothéses. La premiére est que 
C’est cette représentation qui fonde la dynamique de l’écriture référentielle, 
la seconde est que, la spécification de I'indicible étant liée a la question du 
genre, “un relevé des contenus des apories formulées par le texte 
référentiel, ainsi que des stratégies élaborées pour les résoudre, peut 
permettre de constituer un systéme du genre” (7). 

Mettant ses hypothéses a l'épreuve de voyages d’écrivains, l’auteur 
convoque des textes de Chateaubriand, Lamartine, Hugo, Stendhal, 
Flaubert, Sand, Gautier, Nerval, Dumas et Fromentin, pour construire un 
modele global. Analysant les apories de l’hétérogéne, traitant de la 
médiation de la bibliothéque, envisageant les solutions métaphoriques et 
littérales apportées par les auteurs pour venir a bout des apories de l’hé- 
térogene, Christine Montalbetti montre enfin que “ce que tout texte réfé- 
rentiel raconte, et le récit de voyage en particulier, c’est d’abord histoire, 
chaque fois rejouée, d’un réajustement patient du dire au monde» (10). 

Miroirs de textes a participé au renouvellement des études sur les rapports 
que le récit de voyage entretient avec des textes issus de genres littéraires 
divers.!5 L’auteur est un lecteur et le voyageur est imprégné de ses lectures 
lorsqu’il rédige le récit de son voyage. La n’est pas l’un des moindres 
paradoxes de ce type d’écrit qui, tout en étant censé refléter le réel de 
maniére transparente puise ses sources dans ce fonds étoffé que constitue 
la “bibliothéque du voyageur” comme le montre Christine Montalbetti 
(“Entre écriture du monde et récriture de la bibliothéque: conflits de la 
référence et de l’intertextualité dans le récit de voyage au XIX siecle”). 
Emprunts, appropriations, réemplois, transformations participent de ce jeu 
intertextuel qui est a l'ceuvre dans toute relation de voyage. La littérature de 


15. Sophie Linon-Chipon, Véronique Magri-Mourgues, Sarga Moussa, dirs., Méroirs de textes. 
Récets de voyage et intertextualité (Nice, Publications de la Faculté des Arts, Lettres et Sciences 
Humaines, 1998). 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANCAIS 493 


voyage est une littérature de pirates, de pillards et de plagiaires. C’est la 
remarquable pérennité de cette pratique d’écriture qu’interrogent les auteurs 
des études réunies dans cet ouvrage. L’intertextualité est d’abord analysée 
comme principe génétique en termes de réécritures. Que les références 
convoquées fonctionnent comme modeéles ou repoussoirs, une connivence 
s’établit entre le relationnaire et son lecteur, comme le montrent notamment 
Frédéric Tinguely (“Réforme et réécriture dans le Voyage de Jean Ches- 
neau”’), Luigi Monga (“‘Réalisme et fiction dans l’écriture de voyage a la Re- 
naissance”) ou encore Valérie Berty “Ecuador: un anti-récit de voyage’). 

“Envisagé comme principe génétique — notent Sophie Linon-Chipon, 
Véronique Magri-Mourgues et Sarga Moussa — I’intertextualité évolue du 
sens restreint, qui englobe les procédés de la citation clairement délimitée 
ou de la référence simplement allusive, au sens le plus étendu qui désigne 
tout type d'interférences, y compris les interactions entre différents phé- 
noménes culturels ou entre différents systemes sémiotiques” (VIII). L’in- 
tertextualité est ensuite appréhendée comme principe générique en termes 
d’interférences et de transpositions. La relation de voyage est un récit hété- 
rogene qui méle des discours de natures diverses. L’énoncé viatique fon- 
ctionne alors, pour reprendre une formule de Barthes, a la maniére d'un 
“dialogue d'écritures a l’intérieur d’une écriture.””1¢ 


Un paradigme générique peut-il se définir autrement que par des con- 
stantes qui relient d'un texte a l’autre — interrogent Sophie Linon-Chipon, 
Véronique Magri-Mourgues et Sarga Moussa —a partir d'un texte-modeéle 
sans cesse renouvelé mais toujours perceptible dans ses avatars, ne serait- 
ce que sous la forme de trace? (IX) 


L’énoncé viatique procéderait de cette intertextualité en étant lui-méme 
source d'autres énoncés ; il serait alors un “produit productif” ainsi que 
s’appliquent a le montrer Marie-Christine Pioffet (“Les méandres de Marc 
Lescarbot au Nouveau Monde: du voir-dire a la digression érudite”), Sylvie 
Requemora (“Des anecdotes tragi-comiques: l’intertextualité romanesque 
dans quelques récits de voyages du XVII¢ siécle”), Alain Blondy (“Le 
voyage et les aventures de Carasi a Malte, d’aprés L’Ordre de Malte dévoilé 
[1790]”) ou encore Jacques Domenech (“Volney voyageur moraliste: 
interaction entre discours des Lumiéres et récit de voyage’). L'intertex- 
tualité est enfin analysée en termes d'imaginaires. Quand le livre se 
substitue au voyage réel, le référentiel s’efface au profit de l’intertextuel. Le 
référant ne correspond plus 4 une expérience de voyageur mais a une 
expérience de lecteurs. Les auteurs de ce volume le montrent tous: le récit 
de voyage est “tiraillé entre deux extrémes.” 


16. Roland Barthes, Le Grain de la voix. Entretiens (Paris, Seuil, 1981), p.51. 


494 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


[Lle voyage livresque qu'il effectue — notent Sophie Linon-Chipon, 
Véronique Magri-Mourgues et Sarga Moussa, le constitue en genre lit- 
téraire mais le détourne de sa mission premiere et heuristique, qui est de 
rendre compte du monde nouveau découvert, sinon du monde a nou- 


veau parcouru. (X-XT) 


Les travaux consacrés aux relations que le récit de voyage entretient 
avec les genres canoniques se sont multipliés. Les chercheurs explorant un 
aspect de ces relations sont de plus en plus nombreux a figurer dans les 
revues, monographies et actes dont l'objet d'étude principal est lié au 
roman, a la poésie et au théatre, et deux volumes d'actes récemment publiés 
se sont faits l'écho de ces explorations en réunissant des études qui permet- 
tent d'appréhender en termes de théories, de thématiques et de procédés 
d'écriture les liens unissant le récit de voyage au roman et a la poésie: Les 
Récits de voyage de Chateaubriand,” L'Inutation au voyage,* Roman et réat de 
voyage et Poésce et voyage. 

Que le récit de voyage soit un genre “flou,” “mélé,” “informel” justifie 
son rapprochement de ce genre non moins “hybride,” “informel,’” “libre” 
quest le roman, comme le note Philippe Antoine dans sa “Preface ‘a 
Roman et réait de voyage.” C’est dans son principe de composition que réside 
probablement la spécificité de l’énoncé viatique. Le récit de voyage méle les 
discours, les textes, les genres. Il emprunte au roman ses codes mais 
l'investit aussi jusqu’a lui conférer les atours du document. A l’instar du 
romancier, le voyageur cherche a faire et a dire vrai. Et comme l’observe 
fort justement Philippe Antoine, “il n’est peut-étre pas d’art plus difficile 
que celui de faire et de dire vrai.” (Antoine, 6) L’histoire des voyages ne 
serait-elle pas in fine “la quéte d’une adéquation problématique du langage 
4 la vérité du monde”? (Antoine, 6) C’est ce que s’applique notamment a 
montrer Joélle Soler (“Lecture nomade et frontiére de la fiction dans les 
Métamorphoses d’Apulée’’). L’énoncé viatique partage avec l’énoncé roma- 
nesque cette finalité méme si les modalités d’écriture mises en oeuvre dif- 
férent et si la vérité du roman n’est pas celle du voyage. Parmi les auteurs 
dont les contributions composent ce volume, nombreux sont ceux qui ex- 
plorent les liens existant entre les relations de voyages et les fictions 
narratives, qu'il s’agisse de Michel Bideaux (“Les Voyages de Robert Lade, 
ou les mécomptes de la fiction”), de Sylvie Requemora (“Du roman au 
récit, du récit au roman: le voyage comme genre métoyen au XVIIe siécle”’), 


2? ¢¢ P97 6C 


- ce 


17. Philippe Antoine, Les Récits de voyage de Chateaubriand. Contribution a l'étude d'un genre (Pais, 
Honoré Champion, 1997), “Romantisme et modernités.” 


18. John Renwick, dir., L’Tnvitation an Voyage. Studies in honour of Peter France (Oxford, 
Voltaire Foundation, 2000), “Studies on Voltaire and Eighteenth Century.” 

19. Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud et Philippe Antoine, dirs., Roman et récit de voyage (Paris, 
Presses de l'Université de Paris-Sorbonne, 2001), “Imago mundi.” 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANGAIS 495 


ou de Sarga Moussa (“Usages de la fiction dans le récit de voyage: l’€pisode 
de la mer Morte chez Lamartine’’). 


La relation viatique— comme l’écrit Philippe Antoine — est avant tout le 
récit d'une expérience appelée a se dire dans un continuum narratif. A ce 
titre, elle a nécessairement un lien privilégié avec les fictions narratives, 
qu'elle alimente parfois, ou qu'elle influence. (6) 


Les relations unissant le récit de voyage et le roman sont appréhendées 
en termes “d’échanges réciproques.” Les auteurs des articles de ce volume 
s’interrogent sur ces conflits entre la référence et la fiction qui se jouent 
dans les relations de voyage autant que dans les fictions narratives et ana- 
lysent les procédés d’écriture déployés pour passer du réel au fictif et réci- 
proquement les champs lexicaux, les dispositifs énonciatifs [...]. Parmi les 
contributions qui explorent ces rapports figurent notamment celles de 
Sylviane Albertan-Coppola (“L’abbé Prévost romancier et éditeur de 
Voyages”), de Patrick Berthier (“Le roman d’un voyageur en Espagne: 
Miktona de Théophile Gautier”) et de Lise Sabourin (“Jules Verne et 
Vécosse: lire, voir, créer’. 


Le voyage — écrit Philippe Antoine — bouscule quelques-unes de nos cer- 
titudes. [L]a relation de cause a effet entre événements n’y est pas tou- 
jours attestée, pas plus que la position ancillaire de la description. Mais le 
savoir encyclopédique peut faire Pobjet d un traitement romanesque, et 
Pinventaire prendre les allures de l’aventure. (7) 


C’est de la sensibilité du siécle des Lumiéres que Francois Moureau fait 
remonter la poésie du voyage, cette poésie que les romantiques ont tout 
particuliérement affectionnée et qu’ils ont “ressassé jusqu’a la nausée” dans 
son “Introduction” a Poésie et voyage. De l'énoncé viatique a l'enoncé poétique, le 
volume d’études réunies par Sophie Linon-Chipon, Véronique Magri-Mour- 
gues et Sarga Moussa.” L’énoncé viatique et l’énoncé poétique semblent 
navoir rien en commun bien que les premiers grands voyages de la 
littérature occidentale aient été écrits en vers, |’ ‘Odyssée comme I'Enéide. Alors 
que l’énoncé viatique rend compte d’une expérience et se présente comme 
expression d’un regard, d’une subjectivité sur le monde “le vers sent le 
travail en chambre, la lime et la “littérature” (Moureau, 8). Ce que montrent 
les contributions réunies dans ce volume, c’est que l’énoncé poétique et 
’énoncé viatique sont paradoxalement loin d’étre étrangers l’un pour 
l’autre, le vers, la prose rythmée et le prosimétre dont il est abondamment 


20. Sophie Linon-Chipon, Véronique Magri-Mourgues et Sarga Moussa, dirs., Poésce et 
voyage. De lénoncé viatique a l’énoncé poétique (Mandelieu-La Napoule, Editions La Mancha, 
2002); “Préface” de Frangois Moureau; “Conclusions” de Frank Lestringant. 


496 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


question au fil des pages l’attestent, auxquels ont consacré de belles pages 
Yvonne Bellanger (“Les récits de voyage de Claude Enoch Virey: des Vers 
itineraires aux aventures versifiées du prince de Condé”), Jean-Daniel 
Candaux (“Voyager en vers et en prose: permanences et innovations d’un 
genre’), Marie-Héléne Cotoni (“Pour une poétique du prosaique: le genre 
du ‘voyage amusant’ ou ‘voyage littéraire’ aux XVII et XVIIIe siécles”) ou 
encore Maryse Jacob (“La littérature viatique en Allemagne et le ‘genre 
mélé’ de la fin du XVIIIe¢ au début du XTXé siécle”). D'ou vient une telle 
prédilection pour I’énoncé poétique? “Le voyage réveille la passion, écrit 
encore Francois Moureau, les sentiments enfouis, l’étre ici, c’est-a-dire la 
convergence d’un lieu qui parle avec un moi qui se contemple”’ (8). 

Du poéme allégorique a la lettre en vers, du voyage poétique au 
prosimeétre, des voyages amusants aux épitres viatiques, l'énoncé poétique 
transfigure le voyage. Les auteurs des diverses contributions réunies mon- 
trent que par-dela le motif, le voyage imprime 4 l'énoncé poétique son ryth- 
me, modéle sa structure, colorie ses sonorités. Ainsi Frank Lestringant ne 
peut résister au plaisir d’évoquer, dans ses “Conclusions,” d’Alfred de Mus- 
set, “la divagation byronienne de Namouna, imitation libre de Beppos et de 
Don Juan, ou la structure strophique épouse, plutdt qu’elle ne décrit la 
saccade effrénée du séducteur éternel, courant de femme en femme a la 
recherche de l’absolu. [...] Le poeme, comme le voyage, ajoute-t-il, est un 
emportement, et nul ne sait a l’avance le terme de la course” (327-328). 
La poésie et le voyage sont appréhendés comme deux modes de déplace- 
ment, la métaphore, voyage du sens propre au sens figuré, du concret a 
labstrait, demeurant cette figure emblématique qui les unit, jusqu’a la 
simple citation poétique qui, imsérée dans l’énoncé viatique, “permet de 
s’élever au-dessus des contingences et de retrouver la quintessence d’un 
lieu, malgré la fuite du temps et la dégradation du présent tristement 
moderne” (329). Entre le lieu poétique et le lieu viatique se nouent des 
rapports subtils. La poésie n'a nul besoin d'un voyage en un temps et en un 
lieu réels. “[Mais] le risque, alors, comme I’a bien vu Frank Lestringant, est 
de sombrer dans une sorte de solipsisme poétique, ot: le voyage serait ex- 
plétf et superfétatoire, ou la poésie, en vertu des prestiges de la métaphore, 
se suffirait a elle-méme’et puis il y a la tentation inverse qui consisterait a 
“réduire la poésie au voyage et de faire, par exemple, du mythique silence 
de Rimbaud un poéme, la poésie passée du stade de l'écriture au stade de 
l'action, dans la promotion de Il'Aventure avec un grand A” (329-330). 

Dans un tout autre registre, Horire k voyage au seixtéme siécle en France de 
Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud est une stimulante introduction au récit de 
voyage.2! Convoquant des textes peu accessibles au grand public, l’auteur, 
respectant en cela la finalité des ouvrages parus dans la collection “Recto- 


21. Marie-Christine Gomez-Géraud, Ecrire le voyage au XVF siécle en France (Paris, PUF, 
2000), “Etudes littéraires. Recto-verso.” 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANGAIS 497 


verso,” envisage la question des récits de voyage en France au XVI° siécle 
sur le plan littéraire puis sur le plan linguistique. Marie-Christine Gomez- 
Géraud se livre ainsi d’abord 4 une enquéte sur ce genre mal défini qu’est le 
récit de voyage au XVIe siécle. Elle s’applique a caractériser le récit de 
pélerinage, entre guide des lieux saints et manuel de méditation, puis le récit 
de découverte, entre chronique et journal de bord. Elle s'intéresse ensuite a 
la question de la genése du récit précisant quelle est la part du texte 
préalable par rapport a l’expérience, montrant en quoi l’anecdote est un 
discours topique, examinant la place dévolue a l'expression de soi. Elle 
montre enfin en quoi le voyage fonctionne comme miroir du monde, c’est- 
a-dire dans quel sens le récit de voyage donne a voir un monde en ordre, 
comment se manifeste la prise de conscience de laltérité, comment 
s’effectue le passage de l’image au stéréotype. A cette synthése fait suite une 
anthologie réunissant des textes de Jacques Lesaige, du Chevalier de Vil- 
lamont, de Philippe Canaye, de Samuel Champlain, de Jean de Léry [...] La 
partie linguistique de ce petit volume constitue assurément ce qui le dis- 
tingue des ouvrages bien informés consacrés au récit de voyage. Ainsi, en 
s’intéressant 4 la syntaxe du récit de voyage, aux modalités de description 
de l’inconnu, aux modes d’insertion des mots étrangers dans les colloques, 
4 la question de la conscience de l’altérité linguistique, Marie-Christine Go- 
mez-Géraud livre un précieux répertoire des procédés d’écriture mis en 
ceuvre dans les récits de voyage imprimés en francais au XVIF siécle. 


Les Tyrans de la mer. Pirates, corsaires et flibustiers, le volume d’études réunies 
par Sylvie Requemora et Sophie Linon-Chipon est original a plus d’un ttre. 
Comme I’écrit fort justement Francois Moureau dans son avant-propos fort 
4 propos intitulé “Abordage,” le monde de la course et de la flibuste fait 
partie de ces continents 4 redécouvrir. Les récits de pirates ont inspire les 
scénaristes des grands studios hollywoodiens et fait réver les lecteurs les 
plus férus des volumes de la “Bibliothéque verte.” Dans ce volume sont 
inventoriées et analysées les formes prises par la course, la flibuste et la 
piraterie, termes qui sont 4 tort assimilés et qui référent a des réalités et a 
des pratiques différentes. Ce que révélent les contributions de ce volume, 
c’est la maniére dont s’est effectué le passage en littérature de “ce qui ne 
pouvait, décemment, ni divertir ni instruire selon la vulgate horatienne.”’ 
(Moureau, 6) C’est dans les récits de voyage que les “Tyrans de la met” 
font leur premiére apparition. Explorant la fascination que le pirate a exercé 
sur des générations de lecteurs, le corsaire apparait dans les romans et 
piéces de théatre du premier dix-septiéme siécle, ainsi que le montrent no- 
tamment Chantal Meure-Payet (“Echos d’opérations de course chez Robert 
Challe”), Ellen Moerman (“Les pirates dans l’Historre général des voyages: 
traduction commerciale, romanesque et philosophique”) ou encore Jean- 
Michel Racault (“De l’aventure flibustiére a la piraterie littéraire: Defoe, Le- 
guat, les deux Misson et la République utopique de Libertalia”). Frangois 
Moureau explique comment dans les deux derniéres décennies du XVIIe 


498 DOMINIQUE LANNI 


siecle, la nouvelle galante se substituant au roman, l’opéra-ballet a la 
tragédie en musique, la comédie de meeurs a la comédie héroique, le cor- 
saire comme héros quitte la scéne. La publication par Exquemelin de la 
premiére histoire de la flibuste en 1686 “marque la rupture avec le 
romanesque baroque et l’entrée du flibustier dans lorbite de la narration 
réaliste.”22 Au XVIIIe siécle, le récit de flibuste connait un regain d’intérét 
aux cotés des récits de naufrages dans la littérature maritime. Prenant de 
multiples visages, le corsaire investit l’imaginaire et s’éloigne progressive- 
ment de son origine historique, comme le montrent notamment Huguette 
Krief (“A Vabordage de Vidée d’énergie: Phéroisation de la flibuste de 
Courtilz de Sandras a Voltaire”), Francois Bessire (“Le Beauchéne de Le- 
sage ou la discrete accession du pirate au rang de héros de roman’’) et Ge- 
nevieve Goubier Robert (“La Croix et le Croissant: les corsaires barba- 
resques dans la fiction romanesque au XVIII¢ siécle’’). Au XTX¢ siécle, la 
littérature de flibuste intégre la littérature d’aventures destinée a la jeunesse, 
et au siécle suivant, les pirates envahissent le monde de la bande dessinée. 
Aujourd’hui les histoires de pirates de espace sont a la mode dans les 
studios hollywoodiens. Mais cela, c’est une autre histoire... 

Cet état des recherches n’est bien sur pas exhaustif. Nombre de mono- 
graphies, d’actes de colloques, de numéros spéciaux de revues auraient pu 
étre présentés. Cependant il a fallu procéder a un choix. On mentionnera 
pour finir quelques thématiques et ouvrages intéressants a un titre ou a un 
autre. Le voyage renvoie 4 I'itinéraire. Quelques ouvrages permettent aux 
lecteurs de revenir sur les grands circuits empruntés ici ou 1a par les voya- 
geurs: Le Voyage d'Ttake dans les kttératures européennes, Bouleversants voyages: Itiné- 
ratres et transformations, Les Guides imprimés du XVF au XX® siécles en sont 
autant d’exemples. L'insularité et les robinsonnades ont donné lieu a plu- 
sieurs Ouvrages. Parmi ceux-ci figurent L'Tnsulanité, Les Voyages et lancrage, 
Impressions dikes, La Postertté de Rolinson Crusoé.24 Entre les relations de 


22. Sylvie Requemora et Sophie Linon-Chipon, Les Tyrans de la mer. Pirates, corsaires et 
Jlibusters (Paris, Presses de ? Université de Paris-Sorbonne / Les Cahiers du CELAT, 2002), 
“Imago Mundi’; “Avant propos” de Frangois Moureau, p.6-8. 


23. Marie-Madeleine Martinet, Le Voyage d'Itale dans les littératures européennes (Paris, PUF, 
1996); Bouleversants voyages: Itinéraires et transformations (Perpignan, Presses de l'Université de 
Perpignan, 2000); Gilles Chabaud, Evelyne Cohen, Natacha Coquery et JérOme Penez, 
dirs., Les Guides imprimés du XVI’ au XX® stécles. Villes, paysages, voyages (Paris, Belin, 2000). 


24. Jean-Claude Marimoutou et Jean-Michel Racault, dirs., L'Tnsularité. Thématique et 
representations. Actes du colloque organisé a l'Université de La Réunion en avril 1992 (Paris, 
L'Harmattan, 1995); Eric Fougére, Les Voyages et l'ancrage. Représentations de l'espace insulaire a 
l'Age classique et aux Lumiéres (1616-1797) (Paris, L'Harmattan, 1995); Francoise Létoublon, 
dir., Impressions diles (Toulouse, Presses Universitaires du Mirail, 1996); Jean-Paul 
Engelibert, La Postérité de Robinson Crusoé. Un mythe littéraire de la modernité (Genéve, Droz, 
1997). 


ETAT PRESENT DES RECHERCHES EN FRANCAIS 499 


voyage et la cartographie, les liens sont ténus, et les récents colloques qui se 
sont tenus 4 Saint-Dié, Strasbourg et Grignan tendent a indiquer que de 
nombreuses perspectives sont encore a explorer. Depuis plusieurs années 
déja, des volumes sont consacrés aux relations que la carte et le récit de 
voyage entretiennent. Parmi ceux-ci font autorité L’‘ec/ du cartographe et la 
représentation zéographique du Moyen Age a nos jours et Du Voyage a la géographie.* 
Représentations, discours et savoir, ont retenu l'intérét de nombreux 
chercheurs et c'est assez logiquement que la bibliographie relative a ce 
théme est étoffée: L’Expérience huguenote au Nouveau Monde, L'Histoire des deux 
Indes: réécriture et polygraphie, L.'écriture du Levant a la Renaissance, Huguenots sans 
frontiéres. Voyage et écriture a la Renatssance et a lAge classique, Stratége 
misstonnaire des jésuites francais en Nouvelle-France et en Chine au XVIF siéck, 
Lafitau et l'émergence du discours ethnographique.© On pourrait citer ainsi des 
dizaines de volumes. Les recherches portant sur les relations de voyage ont 
le vent en poupe. Et ce ne sont pas les collaborateurs de ce numéro qui se 
risqueront a soutenir le contraire 


Centre de Recherches sur la Littérature des Voyages (Paris IV-Sorbonne) 


25. Catherine Bousquet-Bressolier, dir., L'CEi/ du cartographe et la représentation géographique du 
Moyen Age @ nos jours. Actes du colloque organisé les 29 et 30 octobre 1992 (Paris, Editions 
du C.T.H.S., 1995); Marie-Pierre Dion, Du Voyage a la géographie. Itinéraires et cartes 
d'Emmanuel de Croy, Valenciennes, Bibliotheque municipale, 1996. 


26. Frank Lestringant, L'Expénence huguenote au Nouveau Monde (XVI siéle (Genéve, Droz, 1996), 
Hans-Jiirgen Liisebrink et Anthony Strugnell, dirs., L'Histoire des deux Indes: rééeriture et polygraphie 
(Oxford, Voltaire Foundation, 1995), “Studies on Voltaire and Eighteenth Century”, Frédéric 
Tinguely, L'Ecriture du Levant a la Renaissance. Enquéte sur les voyageurs frangais dans l'empire de Soliman le 
Magnifique (Genéve, Droz, 2000), “Cahiers d'Humanisme et Renaissance”, Paolo Carile, Huguenots 
sans frontiéres. Voyage et éoriture a la Renaissance et a l'Age classique (Paris, Honoré Champion, 2001), 
“Les Géographies du Monde”; Shenwen Li, Stratégie missionnaire des jésuites francais en Nowvelle-France 
et en Chine au XVIE siécle (Québec / Paris, Les Presses de l'Université Laval / L'Harmattan, 2001); 
Andreas Motsch, Lafttan et l'émergence du discours ethnograplique (Sillery / Paris, Septentrion / Presses 
de l'Université de Paris-Sorbonne, 2001), “Imago mundi.” 


a 


aYaValata hee i 


= Le mondg en vne ifle porte ce 
“_ Sur la mertant efmeug & rogue}. "7 
£= Sans feul gouuernal nagg & vogue, BSA 


VS § Monitrant fon inftabilite. 





DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


Rassegna bibliografica delle pubblicazioni 
di letteratura di viaggio in lingua italiana (1995-2002) 


nche all’interno di un tentativo sintetico di aggiornamento 

bibliografico che, come questo, non pretenda certo di essere esau- 

stivo e completo, ma si presenti piuttosto come una rassegna ragio- 
nata di alcune tendenze e di alcuni “fuocht” di attenzione bibliografica ap- 
parsi in ambito italiano, appare subito chiaro come il settore editoriale appa- 
ia in complessiva buona salute, dando prova di una notevole vivacita sia nel 
campo delle pubblicazioni che della progettualita.! Per cercare di com- 
prendere meglio lo stato dei lavori e la varieta delle prospettive di ricerca, 
nella seguente rassegna si cerchera di fornire al contempo, oltre che singoli 
dati bibliografici, anche alcune “piste” di riflessione sull’andamento degli 
studi critici di odeporica. 

Partendo da alcuni testi di orientamento generale, una breve in- 
troduzione al genere “letteratura di viaggio” é offerta dal volume Letteratura 
e viaggio di Pino Fasano,? che propone una riflessione incentrata sul concetto 
di “spaesamento.” Fasano, avvalendosi di esemplificazioni tratte da una 
vasta panoramica della letteratura mondiale che va da Omero a Calvino, af- 
fronta sia il tema della “letteratura di viaggio” sia quello, speculare e com- 
plementare, del “viaggio nella letteratura” (Testi di viaggio e mage: del testo si 
intitola significativamente la seconda sezione del volume). 

Un ricco affresco di prospettive di studio sulla letteratura odeporica € 
costituito dalla recente raccolta di sagpi di vari autori, curata da Giorgetta 
Revello.3 Un/altra serie di sagpi dedicati a differenti momenti cronologict e 
a diversi soggetti (dal viaggio immaginario a Giuseppe Baretti, da Carlo 


1. In sede preliminare, si esplicitano, a scanso di equivoci, le limitazioni autoimposte alla 
rassegna. Si sono prese in considerazione le sole opere di autori italiani uscite, nel periodo 
preso in considerazione, in lingua italiana. Non sono state considerate le traduzioni in 
italiano di opere scritte originariamente in altra lingua da studiosi stranien. Pid che a 
scatenare un gioco di riconoscimento delle presenze e delle inevitabili assenze, si vorrebbe 
qui semplicemente proporre qualche percorso di approfondimento. 


2. Roma-Ban, Laterza, 1999. 


3. Da Ulisse a Ulisse: il viaggio come mito letterario. Atti del Convegno Intemazionale di Impena, 
5-6 ottobre 2000 (Pisa-Roma, Istituti Editoriali e Poligrafici Internazionali, 2001). 





Annali d’Italianistica 21 (2003): Hodoeporics Revisited / Ritorno all’odeporica, ed. Luigi Monga 


502 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


Goldoni “narratore, memorialista, e viaggiatore” a Carlo Collodi, autore di 
Pinocchio ma anche di un curioso resoconto di viaggio dal titolo Un romanzo 
in vapore, da Jules Verne all’tmmagine della citta nella letteratura di viaggio, 
per concludere con un’analisi dell’immagine dell’America negli scrittori 
italiani del Novecento) € raccolta da Elvio Guagnini nel volume Vzaggr din- 
chiostro: note su vagy e letteratura in Itahka,* che costituisce un articolato esem- 
pio det metodi di lavoro e di analisi della letteratura di viaggio. Una rifles- 
sione sociologica sul significato del viaggiare nell’epoca contemporanea, con 
indicaziom: anche sul significato e sul ruolo della scrittura di reportage e di 
racconto é il lavoro di Franco Ferrarotti.5 I] volume tratta anche, con stu- 
diato anticipo sulle celebrazioni del giubileo dell’anno Duemila, il ruolo del 
moderno pellegrino, del viaggratore diretto verso i luoghi sacri della cristia- 
nita. Il confronto fra i ritmi del viaggio nell’antichita ed 1 ritmi forsennati 
dell’ittineranza contemporanea conduce |’autore a svolgere una dotta rifles- 
sione sui significati filosofici del viaggio, sui suoi profondi significati e sulle 
funzioni che una profonda esperienza di viaggio potrebbe ricoprire nell’esi- 
stenza individuale e collettiva. Un agile volume a cura di Giovanni Ga- 
sparim, dal titolo I/ maggio, raccoglie cinque contributi di altrettanti autori 
(“Per una sociologia del viaggio,” del curatore del volume; “Tl viaggio del- 
l’antropologa: sapere e ideologia di una pratica fondatrice” di Ugo Fabietts, 
“Viage e viaggiatori: il Grand Tour fra letteratura e storia” di Attilio Brilli; 
“Tl viaggio fra mito e religione: Abramo contro Ulisse” di Filippo Gentiloni; 
“Tl viaggio nella Bibbia” di Paolo De Benedetti) e costruisce un’utile intro- 
duzione a diversi approcci e contenuti compresenti e complementari.° Lo 
studio della letteratura di viaggio si sta ampliando giovandosi infatti, in pro- 
spettiva interdisciplinare, dell’apporto concettuale e metodologico offerto zn 
primis dalle scienze sociali. Il fenomeno riproduce l’onda lunga della discus- 
sione epistemologica e teorica, nata in ambito accademico anglosassone, dei 
cultural studies. In questa direzione, ad esempio, possono essere inquadrati i 
lavori di antropologia del viaggio, quali quello di Lanuzza.7 

La popolarita attuale dell’odeporica é testimoniata da due front: com- 
plementari alla riflessione critica sul genere. Da una parte la divulgazione e 
dall’altra la editoria scolastica. In relazione alla prima si pud ad esempio ci- 
tare la collana Le we del mondo edita dal Touring Club Italiano, giunta al 
numero 32 della serie. Ogni numero é dedicato ad una localita o ad una 
regione o ad una nazione. Per descrivere questi territori viene presentata 


4. Pasian di Prato, Campanotto, 2000. 

5. Partire, tornare. Viaggiatori e pellegrini alla fine del millennio (Roma, Donzelli, 1999). 

6. Roma, Edizioni Lavoro, 2000. 

7. Stefano Lanuzza, G& errantt. Vagabond, viaggiatori, scrittor: (Roma Stampa alternativa, 2002). 


RASSEGNA BIBLIOGRAFICA 503 


un’antologia di pezzi letterari o sagpistici, con ampio risalto della scrittura 
odeporica. Questa fortunata serie editoriale é esemplificativa di un rinno- 
vato legame fra editoria turistica e letteratura di viaggio. Un abbraccio forse 
ambiguo, questo, in virti del sempre presente perioclo di banalizzazione, 
stereotipizzazione e utilizzo strumentale “decorativo” della fonte letteraria, 
ma anche un’opportunita per accostare al genere un piu largo pubblico. Alla 
stessa luce, ad esempio, si puo leggere il successo della serie “Traveller” 
edita da Feltrinelli, che raccoglie testi primari di narrativa di viaggio, re- 
cependo, anche dal punto di vista grafico, un consolidato mercato det libri 
di viaggio che é genere affermato e popolare nel mercato anglosassone. 

Sul fronte divulgativo e didattico, per un contributo nel settore sco- 
lastico si segnalano 1 pezzi di Luca Clerici La Atteratura di viaggio, contenuti in 
due antologie uscite rispettivamente nel 1995 e nel 1996. Un’antologia 
commentata con un articolato ventaglio di applicazioni didattiche é il lavoro 
curato da Orazio Gnerte, dal titolo Le pit belle pagine di viaggi ed esplorazioni: 
testo di narrativa con proposte didattiche interdisaphnan?. 

La produzione critica ed antologica sulla letteratura di viaggio puo es- 
sere suddivisa in quattro filoni di studio principal: 

1) 1 lavori che assumono come criterio ordinatore dell’indagine un 
approccio metodologico o contenutistico, che basano percid la propria 
analisi saggistica su una tematica, che puo essere di differente natura (spa- 
ziale, di genere letterario, legata al mezzo di trasporto, legata al genere 
dell’autore /autrice, ecc.) 

2) una categoria basata su un criterio ordinatore geografico, cioé, che 
assume come baricentro dell’indagine un’area territoriale, a diverse scale (un 
villaggio, una citta, una meta puntiforme, una provincia, una regione, una 
nazione, un continente, una via di trasporto, ecc.). 

3) le opere fondate sul criterio temporale di orientamento, che cercano 
di leggere, spesso in prospettiva sintetica e comparativa, la letteratura di 
viaggio attraverso una periodizzazione storica, affrontando cioé testi che 
hanno in comune una collocazione cronologica di diversa ampiezza, dalla 
dimensione epocale (i viaggi nell’antichita, nel Medioevo, nel Rinascimento, 
ecc.), alla prospettiva del secolo (i viaggi nel secolo dei Lumi, ad esempio) 
fino alla concentrazione su periodi di arco temporale piu ridotto. 

4) le opere monografiche che si dedicano ad un singolo autore o 
addirittura ad una singola opera di uno specifico autore. 


8. Manuale di letteratura ttakana. Storia per generi e problemi, a cura di Franco Brioschi e Costanzo 
di Girolamo (Torino, Bollati Boringhieri), vol. II: Dal Settecento all’Unita &Italia, 590-610; vol. 
IV: Dall'Unita @'Ttalia alla fine del Novecento, 778-805. 


9. Napoli, Loffredo, 2002. 


504 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


Queste suddivisioni vengano intese come strumenti operativi di questa 
rassegna bibliografica, non come solidi distinzioni di ambiti separati da 
paratie stagne. Sono piuttosto nuclei metodologici di concentrazione, pe- 
raltro spesso sovrapponibili e sovrapposti, che hanno la funzione di rag- 
gruppare e di ordinare il sempre difficile e un po’ ostico sviluppo elen- 
catorio di una rassegna bibliografica. 


L’approccio metodologico e contenutistico 

Partendo dal primo di questi ambiti, viene dedicato ad una categoria 
speciale di viagpio, il viaggio utopico, il volume curato da Raffaella Bac- 
colini, Vita Fortunati e Nadia Minerva.!° Attraverso sei capitoli (“La tipo- 
logia del viaggio”; “Viaggiatori utopici tra Cinquecento e Settecento”; “Tl 
viaggio utopico come avventura filosofica e imiziazione”’; “Viaggiatori mo- 
derni in Utopia’; “Utopia, viaggio e estraneita femmunile”’; “Ttinerari e mitt 
utopici”) e quasi quaranta interventi di altrettanti autor, il libro indaga il 
tapporto fra il pensiero utopico e la pulsione e la pratica di viaggio. 

Un genere di viaggio piu. concretamente attento alle condizioni materiali 
e ai risultati dell’itineranza é quello dei mercanti, indagato da un gruppo di 
lavoro intomo ai processi di modernizzazione guidato da Giovanni Motta, 
che ha curato l’uscita del volume Mervanti e viaggiaton sulle ue del mondo. In 
questa analisi il fattore denaro appare come uno dei motori piu potenti della 
mobilita umana. Sulla scia dell’intraprendenza economica si muovono molti 
contatti interculturali, anche se spesso i mercanti non lasciano dietro di sé 
una traccia letteraria che resoconti dei loro movimenti e delle loro 
spedizioni esplorative. 

Una prospettiva di genere, attenta alle specificita della voce femminile € 
quella proposta dal volume miscellaneo Donne in waggio, che raccoglie gli atti 
di un convegno dallo stesso titolo. La miscellanea propone un excursus sul 
ruolo femminile nelle esperienze di itineranza e sul rapporto fra donne e 
cultura del viaggio, sottolineando come quest’ultima sia stata dominata dai 
muti maschili della forza, della resistenza, del richiamo dell’ignoto, ecc.!1 Un 
altro panorama storico generale del rapporto fra donna e viaggio, con 
presentazione di singoli studi monografici ed insieme di articoli di sintesi 
storica, é€ il testo curato da Dinora Corsi Adove. Viaggi di donne dall’antichita 
al Medtoevo.'? 


10. Viaggi in utopia (Ravenna, Longo, 1996). Il volume raccoglie gli atti del convegno 
internazionale di Rimini, 25-27 marzo 1993. 


11. Maria Luisa Silvestre, Adriana Valerio, Donne in viaggio. Viaggio religioso, politico, metaforico 
(Roma-Bani, Laterza, 1999). 


12. Roma, Viella, 1999. 


RASSEGNA BIBLIOGRAFICA 505 


Un lavoro improntato invece sulla tipologia di spostamento, che 
influenza la percezione degli spazi e di conseguenza le tipologie di 
descrizione narrativa, é quello di Attilio Brilli sull’avvento dell’automobile 
come mezzo turistico.13 Utilizzando ampiamente le testimonianze letterarie, 
l’autore percorre, nel corso di un secolo di storia dell’automobile, 1 vari 
tematismi psicologici che ad essa sono stati associati, passando dall’en- 
tusiasmo della scoperta al senso dell’avventura, dalla sensazione di onni- 
potenza provata dai primi guidatori alle frustrazioni e ai problemi conse- 
guenti l’avvento dell’automobile di massa. Si segnalano infine due lavori 
bibliografici, per quanto riguarda l’attrvita convegnistica un articolo di Elvio 
Guagnini, disponibile in rete,!4 e il saggio di Bianca Danna." 


L’approccio geografico 

Passando invece alla seconda categoria, quella che si concentra su specifiche 
aree territoriali di riferimento, una tipologia preliminare riguarda gli 
“archetipi geografici,” le grandi categorie spaziali che, nella terminologia del 
geografo Miossec,!* costituiscono la nostra immagine territoriale “globale”: 
la montagna, la pianura, il mare, ecc. Un lavoro di taglio sintetico che trova 
il proprio baricentro critico intorno ad un’immagine ambientale é, ad 
esempio, quello di Stefano Malatesta sul deserto.!? Una ricerca sospesa fra 
Pottica geografica di focalizzazione (il mare e le isole) e la propensione 
sintetica di un “volo d’uccello” sui generi e le forme della letteratura ode- 
porica é lo studio di Roberto Mussapi, 18 un originale connubio di narrazione 
in prima persona di un viaggio effettivamente intrapreso dall’autore e di 
ricostruzione e commento dei viagei compiuti da diversi artisti, in questo 
caso degli ultimi due secoli, é il volume di Ambrogio Borsani dedicato al 
mito delle isole dei mari del sud, frontiera geografica favolosa che ha 
attratto moltissimi illustri viagpiatori.!? Caso anomalo di testo sospeso fra la 
dimensione del resoconto di viaggio e di summa commentata delle prece- 
denti esperienze di viaggio é il volume di Stefano 


13. La vita che corre. Mitologia dell’automolile (Bologna, il Mulino, 1999). 
14. <http:/ /www.rebel.net/~sax/psp/artihtml>. 


15. “Odeporica e identita nazionale. Alcuni contributi recenti sul viaggio in Italia,’ Cahiers 
d'Etudes Romanes, 3 (1999): 175-185. 


16. Jean Marie Miossec, “L’image touristique comme introduction a la géographie du tou- 
risme,” Annales de géograple, 86 (1977): 55-70. 


17. Il grande mare & sabbia: storie del deserto (Vicenza, Neri Pozza, 2002). 
18. Inferni, mari, isole. Storie d viaggi nella letteratura (Milano, Bruno Mondadori, 2002). 


19. Addio Eden. Melville, Stevenson, Gauguin, London, Brel. Grandi anime alla deriva nei mari del Sud 
(Vicenza, Neri Pozza, 2002). 


506 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


In ambito nazionale italiano, nella categoria dei “viaggiatori in patria,” é 
disponibile un importante repertorio che copre gli ultimi tre secol1 di storia, 
con indicaziont bibliografiche e informazioni sui testi, curato da uno dei piu 
attivi studios del settore, Luca Clerici.2° Il volume fornisce un inventario det 
viaggiatori italiani nella penisola. Lo strumento bibliografico accosta nomi 
“canonici” della letteratura e minori assai meno noti, componendo, tessera 
dopo tessera, un mosaico ricchissimo di nomi, date e toponim1. Lo stesso 
Clerict ha dato alle stampe, in contemporanea a questa biubliografia, 
un’antologia “ragionata” in cui ha raccolto circa quaranta brani da opere di 
autori italiani in viaggio in Italia, fornendo cosi un utile florilegio 
esemplificativo e un piacevole complemento alla bibliografia.21 Un lavoro 
sintetico che raccoglie la tradizione del viaggio in Italia effettuato da 
viaggiatori tedeschi é il volume di Giorgio Cusatell1.22 

Allinterno della tradizione di studio sul viaggio in Italia rumane vivo 1 
filone “regionalista,” che si sofferma sull’tmmagine letteraria di una specifica 
area territoriale che puo essere coincidente con una partizione am- 
ministrativa, ma anche, in altri casi, con una categoria tipologica inter- 
regionale, come quella di “Sud,” la cui immagine é analizzata dal lavoro di 
Dieter Richter e Emanuele Kanceff.% La concentrazione su una precisa area 
territoriale puo accostare all’interno dello stesso lavoro l’analisi di resoconti 
di autori italiani e di autori stranieri, come nel caso del volume di Salerno 
dedicato alla Campania.24 Ancora piu evidente la possibilita di segnare un 
confine regionale nel caso delle isole principali. Per quanto riguarda la Sici- 
lia, ad esempio, si segnala la riedizione dello storico volume di Giuseppe 
Pitre Viaggiaton’ itakani e straniert in Sicha2> Una collana di lavori (sagga, 
edizioni di testi francesi e inglesi in traduzione, studi bibliografici), “Viaggi e 
viagpiatori in Sicilia,” diretta da Rosario Portale e pubblicata da Agora a La 
Spezia, ha gia ragpiunto otto titoli. La stessa casa editrice ha lanctato 
recentemente un’altra collana, “Itinera,” che prevede studi odeporici relativi 
ad altre region: d'Italia. Ancora piu concentrato spazialmente é il filone di 
studi che si concentra su una sola entita urbana, come nel caso dell’analisi 


20. Viaggiatori italiani in Itaka 1700-1998. Per una bibliografia (Milano, Sylvestre Bonnard, 1999). 


21. Luca Clerici (a cura di), I/ viaggiatore meravighato. Itakani in Italia (1714-1796) (Milano, Il 
Saggiatore, 1999). 


22. I tedeschi e I'Ttaka (Milano, Scheiwiller, 1996). 

23. La scoperta del Sud. Il Merictone, 'Ttalia, !Europa (Ginevra, Slatkine, 1995). 

24. Franco Salerno, Luoghi interiori: in viaggio con gh scrittori italiani e stranieri nella Campania del 
Grand Tour (Napoli, Altrastampa, 1999). 


25. Avvenuta all’interno della edizione nazionale delle opere; il volume specifico é a cura di 
Aurelio Rigoli (Palermo, La palma, 2000). 


RASSEGNA BIBLIOGRAFICA 507 


dell’immagine letteraria di Spoleto ad opera di Attilio Brilli?° o di Ragusa, in 
una collana diretta da Mario Tropea, nella quale Rita Verdirame pubblica 
Viaggio a Ragusa, un’antologia di testi odeporici sulla citta siciliana.?” L’og- 
getto geografico di interesse puo anche essere, al di la del paradigma ur- 
bano, anche una direttrice di viagpio, una strada, come nel caso del volume 
di Alberto Sorbini dedicato alla Via Flaminia.28 Scendendo nello specifico 
geografico di singole citta italiane, da segnalare la ricerca sull’immagine della 
citta di Milano all’epoca di Stendhal??. Ancora piu localizzata nello spazio 
Vindagine effettuata da Fliri e Resegotti sulla rappresentazione, da parte dei 
viaggiatori del complesso monumentale della Certosa di Pavia*®. L’unt- 
versita della Tuscia partecipa a questo rend editoriale con ben due collane. 
La prima, “Il viaggio e la scrittura,” diretta da Gaetano Platania, si apre con 
uno studio di Francesca De Caprio Motta sulla principessa Maria Ludovica 
Gonzaga Nevers e le sue relazioni franco-polacche, con dei testi odeporici 
rari.3! Nella seconda, “Viaggi e storia,” pure diretta da Platania, é uscito i 
volume degli atti di un seminario interdisciplinare sul viaggio, Vzaggaton da e 
per la Tusca.>? 

In ambito geografico confinante con I’Italia, dedicato alla tradizione di 
viaggio in Svizzera, la collana “Tl castagno” dell’editore Dado di Locarno ha 
pubblicato alcuni volumi, tra 1 quali non si dimentichera la bella antologia 
curata da Renato Martinoni.33 Il catalogo della esposizione tenutasi nel 
1998 al Museo Cantonale d’arte di Lugano,*4 centrato sulla produzione 
pittorica dei viaggiatori, contiene anche utili nflessioni sul resoconto 


26. Loreto e l’Europa. La “citta felce” negli itinerari dei viaggiatori stranieri (Cinisello Balsamo, 
1997). 


27. Della stessa autrice esce fra breve anche la traduzione dei Rscord di Auguste de Forbin. 


28. La Via Flaminia nei racconti dei viaggiatori stranieri del Settecento (Perugia, Editoriale Umbra- 
Istituto per la Storia dell’Umbria contemporanea, 1997). Dello stesso autore si segnala un 
precedente volume dedicato alla immagine del capoluogo umbro nella letteratura odeporica: 
Perugia nei kbri di viaggio dal Settecento all"Unita d'Ttalia. 

29. “La Milano dei viaggiatoni francesi al tempo di Stendhal,” in Gian Franco Grechi (a cura 
di), Incontri Stendbaliant (Milano, Biblioteca Comunale, 1996): 9-44. 


30. La Certosa e lEuropa. Se secoli & viaggi alla Certosa d Pavia 1396-1996 (Pavia, Cardano, 
1995). 


31. Maria Ludovica Gonzaga Nevers: una principessa franco-mantovana sul trono di Polonia (Manziana: 
Vecchiarelli, 2002). 


32. Viterbo, Settecitta, 2003. 
33. Viaggiatort del Settecento nella Svigzera italiana (Locarno, Dado, 1989). 


34. Manuela Kahn-Rossi (a cura di), Itinerari sublimi: viaggi d'artisti tra 1 1750 e il 1850 (Milano, 
Skira, 1998). 


508 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


diaristico e sull’odeporica in genere nella prospettiva di un’analisi 
interdisciplinare. 


L'approccio storico 

Procedendo in ordine cronologico nella storia, e partendo dai viaggiatori 
dall’antichita, si segnala il volume di Vincenzo Consolo e Mario Nicolao che 
riporta il testo di una conversazione avvenuta fra 1 due autori. In questo 
dialogo lo scrittore siciliano spiega la posizione centrale, nella sua con- 
cezione filosofica ed artistica dell’argomento “viaggio,” che egli assegna al 
mito di Odisseo, da interpretarsi come archetipo dell’esperienza di viagpi0.%5 
Questa figura muitologica € sottesa, secondo Consolo, a moltissimi dei 
classici della letteratura occidentale, e ha ispirato anche la sua produzione 
romanzesca. 

In relazione all’attivita letteraria degli scrittori italiani che si recano in 
viaggio all’estero si possono citare, per il Medioevo, il volume dello storico 
Franco Cardini sui pellegrini in Terrasanta.*° Sui viaggi rinascimentali, ed in 
particolare sul vasto fenomeno del viaggio verso una muissione religiosa, € 
incentrato il lavoro di Gian Carlo Roscioni I/ destderto delle Indie,’ che indaga, 
attraverso 1 documenti storici ed epistolari, il desiderio di “alterita” spaziale 
e di martirio dei giovani gesuiti aspiranti ad una destinazione lontana dal- 
l’Italia. Il lavoro curato da Adriana Chemello, invece, esplora il rapporto fra 
la letteratura di viaggio e l’attivita esplorativa, rappresentata nello specifico 
dalla figura di Antonio Pigafetta>* Il volume raccoglie gli interventi 
presentati ad un convegno tenutosi a Vicenza nel 1995. In esso si trovano, 
fra gli altri, oltre ad un’introduzione della curatrice, un saggio di inquadra- 
mento di Luciano Formisano (“La scrittura di viaggio come ‘genere’ lette- 
rario”), un’analisi dell’tmmagine del Nuovo Mondo negli scritti di Mann 
Sanudo e di Angelo Trevisan (Angela Caracciolo Arico), della presenza 
giapponese a Vicenza, delle relazioni cinquecentesche da viaggi in America 
(Daria Perocco). Sempre in relazione al fenomeno delle scoperte geogra- 
fiche, ed in particolare dei viaggi per mare verso il continente americano, é 
disponibile il volume di Vittoria Martinetto, uscito per 1 tipi delle Edizioni 


35. I/ viaggio di Odisseo (Milano, Bompiani, 1999). 

36. In Terrasanta. Pellegrini italiani tra Mectoevo e prima eta moderna (Bologna, I] Mulino, 2002). 
37. Il desiderio delle Ince. Storie, sogni e fughe & giovani gesuzh italiani (Torino, Einaudi, 2001). 

38. Antonio Pigafetta e la letteratura & waggio (Verona, Cierre, 1996). Per quanto riguarda 


laccesso ai testi primari, si segnala ledizione della Relazione del primo viaggio attorno al mondo di 
Antonio Pigafetta, con introduzione e a cura di Andrea Canova (Padova, Antenore, 1999). 


RASSEGNA BIBLIOGRAFICA 509 


dell’Orso di Alessandria, che si configurano fra 1 piu attenti ed interessati 
all’odeporica*?. 

Pure orientata su un criterio di comunanza di destinazione geografica 
fra 1 vari autori la panoramica sui viaggy di italiani in Africa offerta da Elvio 
Guagnini nell’articolo “Ttaliani in Africa da Scarfoglio a Celati. Alcune idee 
per un bilancio.”4° Vivace, all’interno degli studi di odeporica, si conserva 
lattenzione critica sul fenomeno del Grand Tour e sulle sue ricadute lette- 
rarie. Un affresco di sintesi che abbraccia le testimonianze letterarie come 
quelle artistiche e musicali é il voluminoso catalogo della mostra tenutasi a 
Genova nell’estate del 2001, a cura di Giuseppe Marcenaro e Piero Bo- 
ragina.*! Simile repertorio generale sul fenomeno, anch’esso catalogo di una 
mostra, tenutasi prima a Londra e poi a Roma, é il volume di Andrew Wil- 
ton e Ilaria Bignamini.4? Per una storia del fenomeno turistico nella sua evo- 
luzione dal periodo del Grand Tour fino ad oggi, con una lettura diacronica 
delle continuita e delle innovazioni, si segnala il volume di Enzo Nocifora 
Itinerana. Dal Grand Tour al turismo postmoderno: lezzoni di soctologia del turismo. 
Un altro testo di riferimento essenziale, con una ricca riflessione meto- 
dologica sugli stilemi, sui fenomeni di prestito, sull’elaborazione e con- 
solidamento di una vera e propria tradizione di genere, é il lavoro curato da 
Narita Crotti: I/ waggo in Itaha. Modelh, suk, hngue. 

Diverse sono le tematiche attraverso le quali si puo tentare di ap- 
profondire l’argomento del Grand Tour, abbandonando lo sguardo a volo 
duccello per concentrarsi su aspetti piu specifici. Alcuni volumi enfatizzano 
il corredo iconografico, affiancando ai testi letterari e alle letture critiche 
limmediatezza visuale delle fotografie. Altri individuano delle partizioni 
tematiche all’interno della complessa tematica del viaggio. Un breve elenco 
esemplificativo di testi, tutti relativi al Grand Tour, ciascuno dotato di uno 
specifico approccio, pur nell’aridita dell’enumerazione, pud fornire un’idea 
della ricchezza dei possibili percorsi di lettura del fenomeno. Un volume 
fotografico che concentra la propria ricerca testuale e iconografica sulle 
condizioni materiali del viaggio nella modernita, utilizzando font letterarie 


39. Naufragt, prigioni, erranze: poetiche dell’eroitsmo nel Nuovo Mondo, 2001. Fra gli altri volumi della 
casa editrice si segnala Popera di Daria Perocco, Wiageiare e raccontare. Narrazione dé viaggio ed 
esperienze di racconto tra Cinque e Secento, 1997. 


40. Narrativa 14 (1998): 89-101. 

41. Viaggio in Italia. Un corteo magico dal Cinquecento al Novecento (Milano, Electa, 2001). 
42. Grand Tour. Il fascino dell'Ttaka nel XVIII secolo (Milano, Skira, 1997). 

43. Pescara-Milano, Le Vespe, 2001. 


44. Napoli, Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane, 1999. 11 volume comprende gli atti di un convegno 
svoltosi a Venezia all’inizio di dicembre del 1997. 


510 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


appartenenti a differenti tradizioni nazionali, é l’Arte del waggare di Attilio 
Brilli*5 Un testo storico, ma di grande interesse per la comprensione 
contestuale degli scenari sociali delle citta italiane é il lavoro di Calabi e 
Lanaro dedicato ai quartieri stranieri e ai ghetti, luoghi di contatto imter- 
etnico che ricevono forte risalto dalle testimonianze letterarie.46 Dedicato 
all’immagine degli italiani creata e divulgata dalla letteratura del Grand Tour 
é il recentissimo lavoro di Attilio Brilli Un paese di romantia briganii.” Basata 
invece sulla identificazione di un repertorio di mete “minori” rispetto al 
consolidato asse di visita tmperniato sulle tre citta di Venezia, Firenze e 
Roma, e allo studio di modalita e tipologie di itineranza scomparse é la ri- 
cerca, sempre di Attilio Brilli, I/ waggcatore immaginarto: ['Itaka degh itineran 
perduti.48 In questo volume Brilli sviluppa il concetto di “trama narrativa” di 
un luogo, cioé la sua componente di genius loc plasmata dalla tradizione 
letteraria che lo ha descritto e rappresentato. Sul rapporto fra conoscenza 
scientifica e scrittura letteraria, una delle crwces piu important: del lavoro di 
interpretazione critica dei testi odeporici, si segnala il lavoro di Elena Agaz- 
zi,?9 che, pur concentrandosi sulla letteratura tedesca, compone un affresco 
articolato del rapporto fra atteggiamento scientifico e propensione estetico- 
contemplativa®®. A cavallo fra il secolo XTX e il secolo XX, sempre in am- 
bito di letteratura tedesca, si ricorda il lavoro di Alida Flirt Piccioni “W2agge, 
scrigni magici pient di promesse fantastiche”, trasfigurazioni nostalgiche dell’Ttalia 
nella letteratura tedesca dell'Ottocento-Novecento.”5! Un lavoro che s1 
concentra sul periodo della rivoluzione francese e su quello napoleonico, 
analizzando e descrivendo la produzione di odeporica transalpina a cavallo 
fra Settecento e Ottocento é la ricerca curata da Diego Scarca per conto del 


45. Arte del aggiare. I! viaggio materiale dal XVI al XIX secolo (Cinisello Balsamo, Silvana, 2000). 


46. Donatella Calabi, Paola Lanaro, La citta italiana e i luoghi degli stranieri XIV-XVIII secolo 
(Roma-Bari, Laterza, 1998). 


47. Un paese di romantici briganti. Gh italiani nell’‘immaginario del Grand Tour (Bologna, Il Mulino, 
2003). 

48. Bologna, Il Mulino, 1997. 

49. Il prisma di Goethe: letteratura & viaggio ¢ scienza nell’eta classico-romantica (Napoli, Guida, 1996). 
50. Sul tema vedi anche il quademo monografico a cura del Centro Romantico del Gabinetto 
Scientifico Letterario Vieusseux di Firenze, Le istruzioni scientifiche per i viaggiatori. Secolt XVTI- 
XIX (Firenze, Polistampa, 1997). 

51 . Bollettino dell’ Associazione Italiana di Studi sulla Letteratura di Viaggio, 2 (1996): 14-21. Sempre 
sull’esperienza tedesca del viaggio, ed in particolare sulla mitologia letteraria del Winterreise, si 
veda anche Patrizio Collina, “Paesaggio invernale con spettatore. Metamorfosi del ‘viaggio 


WVinverno’ nella letteratura tedesca dell’eta classico-romantica,” Rivista d Letterature moderne e 
comparate, 4, 52 (1999): 315-325. 


RASSEGNA BIBLIOGRAFICA 511 


Centre d'Etudes Franco-Itakennes, cui collaborano congiuntamente sta 
l’Universita di Torino che quella della Savoia. 

Per una panoramica sugli scrittori italiani del Novecento che hanno 
raccontato i loro viaggi é disponibile il volume di Gaia de Pascale Scnitort in 
viaggio. Narratori e poeti italiani del Novecento in giro per tl mondo,>> che ordina 1 
materiale letterario dedicando differenti capitoli a macroaree geografiche 
(Stati Uniti d’America, America latina, Africa, Europa, Cina, Unione 
Sovietica, India ed altri).Sulla medesima linea sintetica, con estensione al 
secolo XIX, il lavoro di Caterina De Caprio.53 


L'approccio monografico 
Un lavoro focalizzato su un autore che non fu personalmente un grande 
viaggiatore, ma la cui attivita immaginifica costituisce un notevolissimo 
esempio dei potenziali del “viaggio letterario,” € la “monografia’” leo- 
pardiana di Attilio Brilli.54 Intorno alla figura del poeta recanatese, Brilli r1- 
costruisce lo spirito e le condizioni pratiche del viaggio nel XVVI e XIX 
secolo. La dialettica fra progetto, speranza, aspettativa e conseguente delu- 
sione problematica della realta, che attraversa la poetica di Leopardi e la 
caratterizza cosi distintamente, serve all’autore come criterio interpretativo 
anche per l’analisi dei suoi reali spostamenti nello spazio, sempre com- 
pagnati dall’evocazione di un bagaglio culturale straordinartamente ricco. 
Uno degli scrittori che ha ricevuto una vera e propria “riscoperta 
critica” in relazione alla sua attivita di scrittore di viaggio é senza dubbio 
Edmondo De Amicis. Un lavoro monografico sull’attivita giomnalistica De 
Amicis é€ il volume di Flavia Bacchetti I wage “en tounste” di De Amtas: 
raccontare at borghesi,2> che si sofferma sull’attivita giornalistica dello scrittore 
fra il 1872 e il 1884. Lavoro che porto alla stesura di diversi articoli, 
soprattutto sul quotidiano La Nagione e sulla rivista L7Mustrazone Itakana, 
relativi ad alcuni soggiorni nelle principali metropoli europei. La ricerca s1 
concentra sulla particolare formula di reportage su cui De Amicis modula 1 
propri scritti, relativamente nuova e inedita per la cultura italiana dell’epoca. 
L’analisi tocca poi anche il rapporto fra il pubblico borghese cui De Amicis 
si rivolgeva e la successiva svolta politica intervenuta dopo il viaggio 
transoceanico in Uruguay, di cui parla il volume Sz//oceano. Un altro volume 


52. Torino, Bollati Boringhieni, 2001. 


53. Inaffidalili e pellegrini: viaggiatori italiani tra Ottocento e Novecento (Napoli, Libreria Dante e 
Descartes, 2000). 


54. In viaggio con Leopard (Bologna, Il Mulino, 2000). 
55. Tirrenia (PI), Edizioni del Cerro, 2001. 


512 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


dedicato all’attivita giornalistica di De Amicis é quello di Bianca Danna, 
che si basa sulla corrispondenza inedita dello scrittore conservata presso la 
Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale di Firenze. Sempre all’interno di una 
riscoperta critica dello scrittore si situa il lavoro di Valentina Bezzi, che si 
concentra su un reportage dal Marocco.%” Sulle prove odeporiche di altri 
due scrittori italiani dell’Ottocento si misura Patrizia Zambon con l’articolo 
“Le cronache di viaggio di due scrittori agli esordi: Ippolito Nievo e Igino 
Ugo Trachetti.”58 In contesto geografico africano, sull’attivita giornalistica 
di Dino Buzzati dall’Africa si sofferma una nota esperta dello scrittore 
bellunese, Marie Heléne Caspar, che ripubblica 1 testi originali degli articol1 
con un utile inquadramento storico e di commento.»? 

Per quanto riguarda lo studio dei viaggiatori francesi in Italia, si 
segnalano il volume curato da Filippo Martellucci su Chateaubriand®. Su 
Stendhal va menzionato il volume, corredato di ricco apparato fotografico, 
di Giuseppe Marcenaro e Piero Boragna.*! Un panorama sintetico sulla con- 
cezione romantica del viaggio, specialmente in ambito di letteratura tedesca, 
viene offerta dal volume di Patrizio Collins Wanderung. I/ uaggio det romantic.©* 

Per quanto riguarda il Settecento, un vasto affresco delle condizioni di 
viaggio nel Secolo dei Lumi é contenuto nel lavoro di Giuseppe Marci 
dedicato al ruolo del viaggio nell’autobiografismo di Casanova.® Su una fi- 
gura eccentrica di avventuriero italiano si concentra il lavoro di Luigi 
Grassia Un itahano fra Napoleone e « Stoux. Giacomo Costantino Beltrami: il 
patnota, l'esploratore, il letterato®* Per quanto riguarda la modernita, il volume 
di Martino Marazzi, che, sotto la rtuscita formula sintetica del titolo, Lite 
America, parla dell’immagine dell’America negli scrittor: italiani, sia in 
telazione a effettive esperienze di viaggio che nel panorama generale dei 
rapporti culturali e sociali fra le due nazioni. 


56. Dal taccuino alla lanterna magica: De Armcis reporter e scrittore & viaggi (Firenze, Olschki, 2000). 


57. De _Amicis in Marocco. L’esotismo dimidato: scrittura e avventura in un reportage di fine Ottocento 
(Padova, I Poligrafo, 2001). 


58. Problem. Periodico quadrimestrale di cultura, 114-115 (1999): 230-238. 
59. L’Africa di Buzzati (Parigi, Centre de Recherches Italiennes de Paris X, 1997). 


60. L’Instinct voyageur. Creazione dell’io e scrittura del mondo in Chateaubriand (Padova, Biblioteca 
Francese Unipress, 2001). 


61. Italie. If sogno & Stendhal (Cinisello Balsamo, Silvana, 2000). 
62. Milano, Feltrinelli, 1996. 

63. I/ viaggio dé Casanova (Caglian, CUEC, 1998). 

64. Roma, Il Minotauro, 2002. 


65. Littl America. Gli Stati Uniti e gh scrittori italani del Novecento (Milano, Marcos y Marcos, 
1997). 


RASSEGNA BIBLIOGRAFICA 513 


Quanto alle edizioni di testi di viaggiatori italiani all’estero non s1 
dimentichera la recente rivalutazione del diario del viaggio a Capo Nord 
(1799) di Giuseppe Acerbi, gia direttore della Bzbkoteca Itakana, dopo 
lostracismo subito da questi per via dell’accusa di reazionarismo. In questo 
senso, Vincenzo De Caprio, che ha pubblicato presso la casa editrice Guido 
Izzi di Roma un’edizione del manoscritto dell’Acerbi,°° ha anche orga- 
nizzato una serie di convegni in Finlandia e in Italia. Aggrungiamo anche la 
pubblicazione delle lettere di Pietro della Valle dalla Turchia®, alcuni lavori 
di Luigi Monga su ambasciatori veneziani del Cinque e Seicento (Due 
ambasciator’ veneziani nella Spagna di fine Cinquecento,* “Tl Diario del viaggio a 
Londra dell’ambasciatore Girolamo Lando’; “Pietro Contarini a Roma, 
1623: diario inedito di un ambasciatore veneziano,’””° “Tl diario del viaggio a 
Londra di Pietro Contarini7!) e l’edizione del diario di un galeotto toscano a 
Lepanto (Gale toscane e corsari barbareschi: il diario di Aureko Scetti, galeotto 
fiorentino, 1665-1677"), il Viaggo al Messico di Ilarione da Bergamo (1727- 
1778),73 quello in Europa di Cosimo Ridolfi (1794-1865)”4 e quello di Luigi 
Castiglioni in America del Nord.75 In scenari extraeuropei, sull’incontro fra 
una scrittrice londinese dell’Ottocento, Anna Jameson e la xzidemess del 
continente americano, é disponibile dl lavoro di Rita Monticelli, che contuga 
l’analisi testuale ad un ricco apparato di strumenti critici e ad una disamina 
attenta della prospettiva femminile effettuata attraverso 1 suggerimenti 


66. Un genere letterario instabile: sulla relazione di viaggio a Capo Nord (1799) & Giuseppe Acerbi 
(Roma, Archivio Guido Izzi, 1996). Si noti anche il saggio “Pittoresco e sublime nei diari di 
viaggio di Giuseppe Acerbi,” in Nadia Boccara (a cura di), Filosofia e letteratura tra Seicento e 
Settecento. Atti del Convegno Internazionale, Viterbo, 3-5 febbraio 1997 (Roma, Archivio Guido Izzi, 
1997): 21-62. 


67. La porta d’Oriente: lettere di Pietro Della Valle. Istanbul 1614, a cura di C. Gardini (Roma, 
Citta Nuova, 2001). 


68. Moncalieri, C.L.R.V.I., 200. 

69. Miscellanea Marciana, 15 (2000): 79-111. 

70. Ateneo Veneto, 182 (1995): 183-207. 

71. “La Londra secentesca nell’ *Anglopotrida’ di Orazio Busino,” AdI 14 (2996): 553-574. 
72. Fomacette (PI), CLD, 1999. 

73. Edizione, introduzione e note di Beatriz Hernan-Gomez Prieto (Roma, Bulzoni, 2002). 


74. Cosimo Ridolfi, In viaggio per l’Europa: Diario autografo di Cosimo Ridoli (Firenze, Le 
Monnier-Fondazione Spadolini, 2001). 

75. Luigi Castiglioni, Viaggio negli Stati Uniti dell’America Settentrionale, a cura di M. Cerruti 
(Modena, Mucchi, 1996). Il volume raccoglie, del voluminoso originale, la “Prefazione,”’ i 


primi due capitoli e un’antologia dei restanti capitoli. Anche l’apparato delle note originali 
dell autore é stato selezionato. 


514 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


teorici dei gender studies.”° Sempre nel filone monografico dedicato ad autrict 
femminili si segnala inoltre l’attivita di Luisa Rossi, autrice di uno studio 
sull’immagine della Liguria negli scrittt di Dora d’Istria, e di un articolo sulle 
viaggiatrici in Asia ed in Africa.” 


I centri di studio sulla letteratura di viaggio 
Sembra doveroso concludere questa veloce carrellata di indicazioni biblio- 
grafiche accennando separatamente all’attivita di alcuni centri di studio sono 
particolarmente attivi nello studio della letteratura di viaggio, come campo 
complementare e integrativo ad altri campi d’indagine, in prospettiva in- 
terdisciplinare. E il caso, ad esempio, dell’Archivio dei viaggiatori italiani a 
Roma e nel Lazio (AVIREL), presso l’Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani, 
diretto da Vincenzo De Caprio, il quale si occupa della letteratura del Grand 
Tour e soprattutto dell’immagine dell’Urbe negli scritti dei viaggiator.7* Si 
tratta di un archivio on-kne che sara disponibile in rete a partire dall’ottobre 
20003 (http://www.viaggioaroma.it). In esso confluiscono testi di guide tu- 
ristiche e di relazioni di viaggio, un database iconografico, un catalogo bi- 
bliografico e un magazine in Cui Compariranno studi originali, recensioni, 
schede riassuntive. L’idea di entrare nella rete € da tempo una delle risorse 
di studio piu produttive ed aperte per gli studiosi.’ 

Non si dimentichera, inoltre, la Societa Italiana di studi sulla letteratura 
di viaggio, diretta da un gruppo di studios; il terzo volume (1997-1999) del 
bollettino annuale di questa associazione contiene un ottimo saggio 
bibliografico di Elvio Guagnini (“Viaggi e letteratura di viaggio nella recente 


76. Lo stupore della differenza. Anna Jameson e la tradizione del racconto di viaggio, Bologna, Patron, 
2000. Della stessa autrice é disponibile online un altro lavoro critico su Anna Jameson: 
“Intertestualita, traduzione e saperi in transito nella letteratura di viaggio: il caso di Anna 
Jameson,” Lznguae, 1 (2002): 3-14, al seguente indirizzo: <www_ledonline.it/linguae>. 


77. Dora d'Istria. I bagni in mare: una principessa europea alla scoperta della Rivera (Genova, SAGEP, 
1998); “Per la storia del viaggio femminile: una prima niflessione sulle viaggiatrici in oriente e 
in Africa,” Notzzario del Centro Itakano per gli Stud Storico-Geografic, 3, 1 (1995): 15-26. 


78. Daniela Niedda, Margaret Rose, Mariella Billi, Maurizio Ascani, Viagesatori inglesi tra Sette e 
Ottocento, a cura di V. de Caprio (Roma, Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani, 1999); Vincenzo 
De Caprio e Gaetano Platania, I/ waggto in testi inediti o rari, a cura di F. Roscetti (Roma, 
Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani, 1998). 


79. In area francese, il “Centre de recherche sur la literature des voyages”, organizzato alla 
Sorbona da un gruppo di studiosi diretto da Francois Moureau, ha un sito on-line da alcuni 
anni. I] lettore potra consultarlo a questo indirizzo: http://www.crv.org/crlv/index.homl.: vi 
trovera bibliografie, testi in audio di conferenze e convegni, biografie di studiosi, divisi per 
area geografica di ricerca e interessi cronologici, oltre, naturalmente al catalogo delle 
numerose pubblicazioni che il centro produce ad un ritmo molto rapido ed informazioni sui 
numerosi convegni che il Centro organizza periodicamente. 


RASSEGNA BIBLIOGRAFICA 515 


ricerca italianistica”, pp. 5-14) al quale si rimanda per completare queste 
nostre note. 

Di rilievo decisamente internazionale, e di vitalita prorompente, é 
Pattivita del C.I.RV.I. (Centro Internazionale di Ricerche sul Viaggio in 
Italia — Strada Revigliasco 6 — 10024 Moncalieri (To). Fondato nel 1978, il 
centro ha pubblicato numerosi volumi in collaborazione con Il’editore 
Slatkine di Ginevra. Nella collana “Biblioteca del viaggio in Italia,” diretta 
da Emanuele Kanceff, che é anche direttore del Centro, sono apparsi, a 
partire dal 1980, a tutt’ogpi, sessantacinque volumi, edizioni di testi finora 
inediti e studi critici, fra 1 quali si segnalano il recente lavoro collettaneo in 
quattro volumi, curato dallo stesso Kanceff, dal titolo Lo sguardo che uene di 
Lontano,® gli studi di Riccardi Risaliti®! e di Kanceff e Banjanin,®? dedicati ai 
rapporti con 1 paesi dell’Est, il volume bibliografico di Marta Pia Todeschini 
dedicato ai viaggiatori russi in Italia,8> gli atti del convegno su Siracusa nel- 
Locchto del viaggatore®* La collana “Dimensioni del viaggio,” che é giunta al 
tredicesimo volume, pubblica testi importanti di viaggiatori italiani all’estero 
e di viaggiatori stranieri in altri paesi: tra questi si ricordera almeno 
Vedizione del Vzaggio di Franaa (1664-66) dell’abate Locatelli,85 il volume di 
Anne-Christine Faitrop-Porta sull’immagine di Parigi vista dagli Italiani,8¢ il 
volume collettivo sull’eredita classica nell’Europa romantica’? e due studi 
sull’immagine dell’Egitto® e sui viaggiatori francesi in quel paese.8° E, per 
finire, un’altra collana, “Civilisation de l'Europe,” di una decina di volumi, 
propone riflessioni e proposte sulla posizione del Romanticismo francese 
nell’ambito della cultura europea. 


80. Lo sguardo che viene di lontano. L’alterita e le sue letture: riflesstoni e problemi in un mondo che cambia 
(Moncalien, C.I.R.V.I., 2001), 4 vol. 


81. Gk Slavi e I'Ttalia. Viaggi e rapporti tra Quattrocento e Novecento (Moncalieri, C.1.R.V.1., 1996); 
Alla ricerca del paese felice (Moncalieri, C.I.R.V.1., 1999). 


82. L’Est europeo e I’Ttalia. Studi in onore di Piero Cagzola (Moncalieri, C.ILR.V.I., 1995). 


83. Russi in Itaka. Dal Quattrocento al Novecento. Bio-bibliografia descritkva (Moncalieri, C.I.R.V.1., 
1995). 


84. A cura di Emanuele Kanceff, introduzione di E. Kanceff ed E. Papa (Moncalieni, 
CILR.V.L, 1998). 


85. A cura di Luigi Monga (Moncalieri, C.I.R.V.I., 1990). 
86. Parig: usta dagh Itakani. 1850-1914 (Moncalieri, C.LR.V.L, 1995). 


87. Résonanze classiche nell’Europa romantica, a cura di E. Kanceff e A. Poli (Moncalieri, 
C.IR.V.L, 1998), 2 vol. 


88. Raccontare l’Egitto: un’esperienza al femminile, a cura di E. Kanceff (Moncalieri, C.LR.V_I, 
1999). 


89. Friedrich Wolfzettel e Frank Estlemann, LEgpte “apré bien Pautres”: Répertoire des récits de 
voyage de langue francaise en Egypte, 1797-1914 (Moncalieri: C.I.R.V.L, 2002). 


516 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


Questa rassegna, per forza di cose incompleta, servira almeno a offrire 
uno schizzo rapido di quanto si é fatto in Italia nel campo dell’odeporica in 
questi ultimi anni e si sta tuttora facendo. II lettore converra che questo 
consuntivo del ventennio che ha chiuso il Novecento mostra con 
indiscutibile evidenza che l’odeporica si é sviluppata con una vitalita stra- 
ordinaria nell’attivita editoriale della repubblica delle lettere italiane. 


University of Chicago 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 


Edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the collaboration of 
Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Albert N. Mancini, 
Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 


Francesco Bruni, La citta divisa. Le parti e il bene comune da Dante a Guicciardini. 
Collezione di testi e di studi. Bologna: I] Mulino, 2003. Pp. 620. 
The name of the distinguished Italianist Francesco Bruni appears as author or 
collaborator of several volumes reviewed in this section of Ad/’s twenty-first issue. 
Among all these, this volume — La citta divisa. Le parti e il bene comune da Dante a 
Guicciardini — is by far the most demanding intellectually and most ambitious in scope. 
Chronologically, the author ranges from the thirteenth to the sixteenth centuries, as the 
subtitle indicates; and yet, primarily in the introduction and conclusion, he makes 
challenging remarks drawn from his specific field of inquiry that he appropriately applies 
to our contemporary time. The study concerns politics, primarily the development and the 
(apparent) disappearance of political parties as the Italian peninsula’s states moved from 
the medieval comune to the signoria. At the same time, Bruni draws very effectively 
from works of poetry, theology, ethics, philosophy, figurative arts, and virtually all 
cultural productions of the centuries he examines and beyond. It is precisely this specific, 
and yet broadly contextualized focus that allows the author to deal not just with history 
and politics per se, but also to analyze the political development of Italian cities from 
such a comprehensive view as to qualify this volume as a study, not just of the Italian 
Middle Ages and Renaissance, but rather of Italy’s cultural and intellectual history from a 
European perspective. 

The introduction (““Premessa” 9-18) contextualizes the notion expressed by the title, 
La citta divisa, from medieval to Renaissance times; it does so with an overture toward 
the function of parte and partiti (but also such related notions as setta, fazione, patriota, 
and partigiano) in our contemporary time, as if the medieval city’s internal divisions had 
not disappeared at all with the institution of signoria in the late Renaissance. Quoting 
Count Giovanni Gozzadini who in 1875, shortly after Italy’s unification, wrote about 
Italy’s urban towers as physical reminders of past “civili discordie” that he wished would 
never again occur in the newborn Italy, Bruni matter-of-factly points to contemporary 
Italy’s “civili discordie” as discussed in a recent text: Norberto Bobbio’s and Maurizio 
Viroli’s Dialogo intorno alla repubblica (Roma: Laterza, 2001). Somewhat polemically, 
Bruni points out how the two distinguished scholars see in contemporary Italy the co- 
existence of two notions of a country (“due Italie”), shared by two opposing factions, 
each one claiming for itself the right to represent the entire nation’s common good. Bruni 
cleverly fends off the objection that to claim the existence of “due Italie distinte” may 
belong to any normal debate of ideas: “Sostengo invece che una simile posizione del 
problema dipende da alcuni caratteri della storia italiana che sono diventati storiografia e 
ideologia a causa di una riflessione critica assolutamente insufficiente [...]” (12), a notion 
that constitutes precisely — Bruni adds — one of the volume’s theses. To clarify his 
critical position, Bruni, surprisingly, but also refreshingly, comments on the divisions 
created within the United States by the Vietnam War, commemorated by the Vietnam 


518 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Veterans Memorial in Washington, DC, “senza distinzioni di razza, fede 0 sesso” (13): a 
notion, therefore, that seeks to go beyond all political differences and recognize equality 
to all. Referring once again to Bobbio’s and Viroli’s Dialogo, Bruni further objects to 
the two scholars’ trenchant comments about the Italians’ “cattiva educazione religiosa” 
(Dialogo 37), viewed by both as “una malattia della vita civile italiana” (Bruni 14). Bruni 
views this negative comment as tendentious and clichéd, since it was expressed, for 
instance, by the Swiss Simonde de Sismondi and refuted by Alessandro Manzoni. 
Precisely at this juncture Bruni makes a very bold claim, whose validity the entire 
volume seeks to demonstrate: “Certo che intendere la religione in termini puramente 
negativi elimina dalla storia italiana, anche intellettuale e culturale, non solo cid che é 
frutto della cultura religiosa, ma anche cid che deriva dall’incontro del classicismo 
umanistico con il cristianesimo, e cioé quasi tutto. Fatta questa sottrazione, resta molto 
poco” (14; my emph.). To be sure, Bruni allows also for the presence of a gray area: 
“[...] una zona grigia, mista di valori e insufficienze, di bene e male, di buone intenzioni 
e cadute, con tentativi e successi parziali [...]” (16). 

After further objecting to Bobbio’s and Viroli’s political and ideological posturing 
(15), Bruni clarifies the volume’s thesis, amply demonstrated by the four central chapters 
(Chs. 2-5). As political factions and parties tore apart medieval and Renaissance Italy, 
another social, indeed religious, institution gradually arose with the purpose of fostering 
that unity and harmony that political parties were intent on destroying time and again. 
Bruni refers to such religious institutions as “il mondo dell’Osservanza” or the world of 
the Observance and the Observants; namely, those religious orders — primarily those 
who recognized St. Francis as their founder, but also the Dominicans — whose members 
sought “con le parole e le opere l’obbedienza (0, appunto, osservanza) della regola 
originaria,” especially in its strictest form (16). 

To the members of religious orders, especially itinerant and charismatic Franciscan 
and Dominican preachers, Bruni attributes the merit of having often opposed the political 
parties’ divisions, thereby attaining that reconciliation that secular magistrates and 
leaders were either unable to obtain or could obtain only through the exile of so many 
citizens. (On the issue of exile, see Annali d’italianistica 20 [2002], devoted to this 
topic.) Considerations of the common good, therefore, were very important, whether their 
scope was limited to the city (Remigio dei Girolami) or sought to comprehend the whole 
of humankind (Dante). In brief, Francesco Bruni analyzes the world of the Observance 
not just in itself, but in its close relation with the intellectual and literary world of the 
thirteenth through the sixteenth centuries. The volume’s six chapters succeed in achieving 
this purpose eminently well. 

Chapter 1 (19-144) focuses on the parties or rather the “spirito fazioso” — as well as 
their counterpart: the pursuit of the common good — of the medieval comuni, which 
Bruni examines through treatises (Bartolo da Sassoferrato; Remigio dei Girolami), 
figurative representations (Lorenzetti’s frescoes in the Palazzo Pubblico in Siena), 
literary works (Dante’s Comedy), and historical documents. He concludes this chapter 
with valid considerations — based on writings and written testimony, respectively — of 
two figures known only to the cognoscenti: a Jew from Rome (Immanuel Romano) and a 
tailor from Treviso (mastro Manfredino). 

The chapters that follow focus on the world of the Observance: its birth and 
diffusion; the function and language of sermons and religious images; the female 
religious orders; books and libraries; etc. (Ch. 2, “Nascita e affermazione 


519 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


dell’Osservanza,” pp. 145-250); the preachers in Quattrocento Italy (especially Giovanni 
da Capestrano, Bernardino da Siena, Savonarola), but also such institutions as Monte di 
Pieta (Ch. 3, “Predicatori nel mondo italiano del Quattrocento,” pp. 251-341); sacred and 
profane images and Christ’s monogram (Ch. 4, “Immagini sacre, immagini profane, 
monogramma di Cristo,” pp. 343-403); and then again images and signs of the 
Observance, from the mid-fifteenth to the mid-sixteenth centuries, focusing primarily on 
the humanists and the members of the religious orders portrayed in Masuccio Salernitano, 
Bandello, and Luigi da Porto’s tale of Juliet and Romeo (Ch. 5, pp. 405-58). 

After shedding light on the world of the Observance and its function in the civic life 
of the Italian cities, in the sixth and final chapter Bruni returns to a territory more familiar 
to most readers; namely, Machiavelli (459-74) and Guicciardini (474-536). Bruni’s 
reading of Machiavelli is extremely interesting; that of Guicciardini is altogether 
revolutionary, since he opposes the narrow, mostly negative view developed by De 
Sanctis (490-92) and then appropriated not only by Bobbio and Viroli but also, among 
others, by Alberto Asor Rosa (“Ricordi di Francesco Guicciardini,” Letteratura italiana, 
ed. Alberto Asor Rosa, Le opere, Torino: Einaudi, 1993, 2: 3-94). In objecting to the 
reading proposed by so many Italian scholars, which is not shared, however, by such non- 
Italian scholars as Albertini and Rubinstein, Bruni identifies in Guicciardini a nucleus of 
ideas that are “pienamente cristiane” (494), “un nucleo di idee religiose, accordate 
all’assenso della fede e, per altro verso, corroborate dalla razionalita (non dal 
razionalismo) che gli veniva dalla tradizione classica” (496). At this juncture Bruni can 
finally offer his definition of Guicciardini’s much debated i/ particulare, a word that 
Bruni — an eminent philologist — derives from particula and parte: “Nella scala 
formata dalla totalita sociale del bene comune, dalla parte, dall’individuo, il particulare di 
cui qui si parla si colloca sul terzo gradino, non sul secondo occupato dalla parte. Quindi 
il particulare mio coincide con |’io del Guicciardini” (500). Finally, at the end of his 
analysis of Guicciardini, Bruni can link the politician and historian to the preachers of the 
Observance studied earlier: “Per un paradosso [...] un laico che si € adoperato per 
affermare la signoria dello stato e della legalita non ha avuto miglior fortuna dei 
francescani che, cercando di arginare le parti, sono stati accusati di essere stati inefficaci. 
Anche il caso di Guicciardini, insomma, deve essere riaperto, studiato seriamente e 
valutato con equita critica” (536). 

At the end of Chapter 6, Bruni draws a series of conclusions (536-43), which apply 
to the entire volume, quoting texts from various centuries (Guicciardini; Benedetto 
Varchi; Manzoni; Sismondi; etc.) and shedding new light on the still controversial 
relation between secular and religious authorities. Bruni appropriately quotes Manzoni’s 
reflections on the /azzeretto, an institution — Manzoni writes (Promessi sposi, Ch. 31) — 
that the secular authority was unable to manage and that therefore passed on to the 
religious authority, the Franciscans, represented by Fra Cristoforo. Bruni concludes, 
therefore, that those issues connected with “la questione dei rapporti tra |’autorita 
spirituale e il poter civile, si spinsero fino alle soglie dell’unita d’Italia e, per dire il vero, 
ben oltre il 1861” (542). 

The book concludes with a vast bibliography, listing all primary (547-59) and 
secondary sources (559-99) employed in the volume, followed by several indices (603- 
20): all extremely useful as well as indicative of the book’s vast scope. 

In conclusion, Francesco Bruni’s study is highly commendable for its in-depth 
research, brilliant thesis, rigorous argumentation, vast scope, intellectual honesty and 


520 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


courage, lucid and elegant style. I cannot but apologize for the brevity of this review and 
invite all readers, therefore, to peruse the volume and appreciate its wealth and depth. 
Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Francesco Bruni, L’italiano letterario nella storia. Bologna: Il Mulino, 2002. Pp. 227. 
Questo agevole volume, risultato degli studi di uno dei maggiori storici della lingua 
italiana dei nostri giorni, fa parte della collana “Itinerari” della nota casa editrice. La 
collana ospita lavori (finora cinque sono quelli pubblicati) che s’incentrano su questioni 
linguistiche storiche e culturali dell’ italiano. II libro di Francesco Bruni prende in esame 
italiano letterario dal Trecento all’Ottocento. I] materiale é diviso in dieci capitoli, 
preceduti da una Premessa e una sezione intitolata Avvertenze e indicazioni di lettura, 
seguiti da Cronologia, Bibliografia e Indice dei nomi. 

La Premessa (pp. 9-10) offre uno sguardo d’insieme sul ruolo dell’ italiano letterario 
nella storia della lingua e soprattutto sulla necessita di usufruire della continua tradizione 
e vitalita di questa varieta linguistica. La sezione Avvertenze e indicazioni di lettura (p. 
11) contiene la lista dei simboli e delle convenzioni tipografiche usate nel testo. II primo 
capitolo (“L’invenzione dell’ italiano letterario”, pp. 14-35) espone il contributo di Dante 
alla creazione di una lingua letteraria italiana, soffermandosi soprattutto sulle idee 
espresse nel De vulgari eloquentia, dopo aver tracciato un quadro della prosa e della 
lirica italiana e romanza pre-dantesca. 

II capitolo secondo, “Schizzo della lingua antica e della sua evoluzione” (pp. 37-53), 
illustra le caratteristiche dell’ italiano dovute alla sua base fiorentina, per es., anafonesi, il 
suffisso —aio, il dittongo spontaneo, ecc. La discussione include questioni morfologiche 
(per es., la forma dell’articolo determinativo, dei pronomi, dei verbi), sintattiche (la legge 
Tobler-Mussafia), lessicali (polimorfismo, formazione delle parole). 

II capitolo terzo é dedicato al tema “I serbatoi della lingua scritta e dell’italiano” (pp. 
55-76). Qui viene studiato il ruolo che scuole, chiese, cancellerie, stampa e altre 
istituzioni hanno avuto nella diffusione dell’italiano scritto. Le trasformazioni della 
lingua che lo studioso chiama “La svolta del Rinascimento” vengono esaminate nel 
capitolo quarto (pp. 77-97). Tra gli autori presi in esame spiccano Machiavelli, 
Guicciardini e, ovviamente, Pietro Bembo. I] fiorentino studiato sui libri limita la 
diffusione della lingua nel Quattro e nel Cinquecento (e oltre), “ma in compenso le ha 
impresso sostenutezza e nobilta” (p. 84). 

Il capitolo quinto, intitolato “Un linguaggio di lunga durata: la lirica” (pp. 99-111) € 
una disamina della lingua del genere letterario della lirica e delle caratteristiche parallele 
che questa dimostra con la comunicazione faccia a faccia. Nel capitolo sesto (“La 
narrativa lunga in versi: il poema”, pp. 113-32) si studia la nascita e lo sviluppo dei 
poemi in ottava rima, dopo aver analizzato la ricchezza espressiva della Divina 
Commedia. 

Il capitolo settimo ha come scopo un’indagine sulle “Forme della prosa antica” (pp. 
133-46), i cui tipi di testo sono svariatissimi, dato che |’italiano delle origini é ricco di 
testi pratici (documenti notarili, prosa scolastica, orazioni, ecc.), ognuno dei quali ha 
bisogno di strutturazioni linguistiche particolari. Il capitolo ottavo tratta “La svolta 
dell’Unita d'Italia” (pp. 147-69) partendo dalla prospettiva manzoniana e poi ascoliana. 
Qui vengono contrapposti gli elementi linguistici presenti nei Promessi sposi e nei 
Malavoglia che questi lavori condividono (il che polivalente, la tematizzazione, 


521 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


l’egocentrismo del parlato, ecc.) e viene anche indicata la nuova lingua letteraria che 
questi due romanzi propongono. II capitolo seguente, intitolato “La scala della scrittura: 
italiano semicolto, italiano regionale, italiano letterario” (pp. 171-95) esamina le varieta 
delle forme di scrittura (soprattutto regionali e semicolte) che sono spesso estranee alla 
lingua letteraria, anche se “tuttavia le fanno in certo modo da contorno” (p. 172). II 
capitolo offre esempi di testi non-letterari. 

Infine il capitolo decimo descrive per sommi capi “L’ italiano fuori d'Italia e il ruolo 
dell’italiano letterario” (pp. 197-203). Qui lo studioso insiste sul fatto che “Lo sviluppo 
culturale italiano, non diversamente dalla crescita finanziaria e commerciale dei periodi 
prosperi della storia italiana, non é stato sostenuto da quello che oggi si chiama sistema 
paese, ma si é affermato per iniziativa autonoma di singoli o gruppi, la cui unica forza 
consisteva nelle idee, e nel saper fare letterario o architettonico 0 pittorico 0 musicale o 
altro, necessario a esprimere le idee stesse in opere” (p. 198). 

Tutti i capitoli sono corredati di cosiddetti “Quadri” che contengono esempi di 
scrittura che illustra |’"argomento del capitolo stesso; per es., nel capitolo terzo il Quadro 
propone il tema “La religione e il dialetto” (p. 62) e quello della “Formula matrimoniale 
dei Cappuccini” (pp. 64-65). La sezione intitolata Cronologia (pp. 207-09) presenta 
informazioni utilissime riguardo le date, i principali avvenimenti e le sezioni del libro in 
cui si possono reperire informazioni sui periodi storici e eventi indicati. La sezione 
dedicata alla bibliografia é divisa in due parti: “Indicazioni bibliografiche” (pp. 213-14), 
con pubblicazioni di interesse generale, e “Riferimenti bibliografici” (pp. 215-21), che 
elenca gli studi utilizzati nel volume. L’ indice dei nomi (pp. 225-27) conclude il volume. 

Chiunque operi nel settore della cultura italiana potra utilizzare il volume con molto 
profitto. Indirizzato al lettore generale, e soprattuto a chi vuole imparare a comprendere 
la solida e continua tradizione letteraria italiana dal Tre all’Ottocento, il volume risponde 
egregiamente a questa esigenza. La lingua usata nell’esposizione é tale da far capire 
anche concetti complessi e |’autore presta particolare attenzione alla leggibilita e alla 
comprensione del testo, offrendo per esempio definizioni e esempi di termini scientifici, 
di concetti e parole non comuni. 

Tre argomenti, tuttavia, destano qualche perplessita. Prima di tutto non viene offerta 
nessuna definizione dell’espressione “I’italiano letterario”, nozione che a prima vista 
sembra data per scontata; ma data la polemica che riguarda la letteratura e la 
paraletteratura sarebbe stato opportuno offrire una prospettiva anche linguistica di questa 
questione. Occorre anche sottolineare che il volume non spiega con sufficienza il tema 
della sintassi, forse l’aspetto linguistico (oltre a quello lessicale) che maggiormente 
preclude una lettura agevole degli scritti letterari del passato. Una descrizione, anche per 
sommi capi, della sintassi verbale e della tipologia di frasi complesse rientrerebbe nel 
tema principale del libro e si potrebbe facilmente aggiungere a possibili future edizioni. 
Inoltre é anche strano che per il terminus ad quem sia stato scelto |’Ottocento, anche 
perché l’italiano letterario degli ultimi cent’anni non solo ha subito modifiche ma 
continua a essere il termine di paragone per tutte le altre varieta linguistiche. Queste 
considerazioni non detraggono nulla comunque dall’apporto sostanzioso del libro al 
panorama della storia della lingua letteraria. 

Oltre alla solida trattazione di nozioni fondamentali, il volume ha tre scopi sottintesi, 
ma ben presenti, che sono essenziali per la comprensione della storia dell’italiano 
letterario. Da un lato, Francesco Bruni sottolinea il fatto che la conoscenza dell’italiano 
letterario & indispensabile per la comprensione e il godimento dell’italiano scritto; 


522 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


dall’altro, l’autore fa capire che la storia letteraria ¢ un requisito per l’approfondimento 
della lunga tradizione della cultura italiana, rigogliosamente illustrata sia in Italia che 
all’estero, veicolata appunto dalla produzione letteraria. I] terzo scopo del volume 
concerne la salvaguardia della continuita della tradizione letteraria sia dalle pressioni 
internazionalizzanti sia da quelle troppo localizzanti. In conlusione, L italiano letterario 
nella storia costituisce un tesoro di informazioni e di idee. 

Jana Vizmuller-Zocco, York University, Canada 


Giuseppe Patota. Lineamenti di grammatica storica dell’italiano. Bologna: Il! Mulino. 
2002. Pp. 209. 

I] 2002 ha visto una ricca produzione di volumi che trattano la storia della lingua italiana. 
Basta menzionarne almeno due: Paolo D’ Achille, Breve grammatica storica dell ‘italiano, 
seconda edizione, Roma: Carocci, 2002, pp. 126, e Luca Serianni e Giuseppe Antonelli, 
Storia ipertestuale della lingua italiana, Milano: Mondadori, 2002, pp. 187. Il volume di 
Giuseppe Patota rientra in questa concorrenza editoriale, che é sempre benvenuta. 

Il libro si apre con una Presentazione (pp. 9-10) che spiega la prospettiva del 
volume: quella storico-cronologica dal latino in italiano e quella didattica, come 
introduzione della materia per gli studenti del triennio. Seguono poi le Avvertenze e 
indicazioni di lettura in cui vengono elencati e spiegati i simboli usati nel testo. 

Il primo capitolo risponde alla domanda: “L’ italiano deriva dal latino?” (pp. 13-29). 
La risposta coinvolge considerazioni diacroniche, diatopiche, diafasiche, diastratiche, 
diamesiche, un accenno all’ Appendix Probi, e poi anche riflessioni concernenti il metodo 
ricostruttivo e comparativo, la differenza tra il latino classico e il latino volgare e quella 
tra parole popolari e parole dotte. 

La questione dei “Foni e fonemi dell’italiano” costituisce l’argomento del capitolo 
secondo (pp. 31-41). Qui vengono prese in esame le nozioni di fonetica e di fonologia 
sincronica attraverso la descrizione dell’alfabeto fonetico, i fonemi vocalici, consonantici, 
nasali, ecc. I] terzo capitolo, “Dal latino all’italiano: i mutamenti fonetici” (pp. 44-106), 
esamina, tra l’altro, le differenze tra il sistema vocalico latino e quello italiano, i 
mutamenti vocalici e consonantici, con accenni a altri sistemi (per es., quello vocalico 
sardo e quello siciliano). Nel capitolo seguente, “Dal latino all’italiano: 1 mutamenti 
morfologici” (pp. 107-57), ’autore prende in considerazione la morfologia nominale (per 
es, casi, declinazioni, metaplasmi), aggettivale, pronominale (pronomi relativi, indefiniti, 
ecc.), verbale e la formazione degli articoli. Il capitolo quinto, “Dal latino all’ italiano: 
alcuni mutamenti sintattici” (pp. 160-67), presenta il cambiamento diacronico dalla 
prospettiva dell’ordine delle parole nella frase (da soggetto-oggetto-verbo a soggetto- 
verbo-oggetto); viene anche discussa |’enclisi del pronome atono (la legge Tobler- 
Mussafia) e la funzione del “che” polivalente. 

Infine l’ultimo capitolo (“Le lingue d’Italia nel Medioevo: una visione d’insieme”, 
pp. 170-90) é dedicato a una breve rassegna di quei volgari italiani che hanno avuto una 
tradizione colta: il milanese antico (con l’illustrazione di un brano del poemetto De 
quinquaginta curialitatibus ad mensam di Bonvesin da la Riva), il veneziano antico 
(presentato nella veste del Tristano veneto), il romanesco antico (analizzato usando la 
Cronica), il napoletano antico (illustrato dalla Epistola napoletana di Giovanni 
Boccaccio), il siciliano antico (presentato dal Lamento di parte siciliana), la koiné 
settentrionale quattrocentesca (resa evidente da un brano di una relazione stesa dal notaio 
Alessandro Ramedelli a Gian Francesco Gonzaga). Il volumetto si chiude con la sezione 


523 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Bibliografia (pp. 194-96), divisa per parti che rimandano ai capitoli del libro, e 
dall’ Indice delle parole e delle forme (pp. 199-209). 

Da notare sono i capitoli terzo, quarto e quinto che includono sezioni intitolate “Val 
pid la pratica della grammatica”, in cui vengono esemplificati i processi linguistici 
esaminati negli stessi capitoli traendoli da un brano della quarta novella della sesta 
giornata del Decameron di Boccaccio. Nel brano sono sottolineate le parole che 
esemplificano i processi trattati e i brani sono corredati di una spiegazione esaustiva dei 
fenomeni linguistici spiegati precedentemente. Inoltre tutti i capitoli, tranne |’ultimo, 
contengono senzioni intitolate Attenti all’errore: questi paragrafi chiariscono nozioni che 
potrebbero portare alla confusione concettuale. Per esempio, la sezione a p. 29 avvisa lo 
studente con queste parole: “Attenzione a non commettere l’errore di prospettiva 
consistente nel considerare popolare non gia la parola di trafila popolare, ma quella pit 
comune (cioé popolare in senso sociolinguistico) nell’italiano attuale e, specularmente, 
l’errore di considerare dotta non gia la parola di tradizione dotta ma quella pit rara o 
ricercata.” La nota continua poi con la spiegazione e con |’esemplificazione di questa 
differenza. 

Questo manualetto di introduzione alla grammatica storica dell’ italiano fornisce gli 
elementi necessari per capire il trapasso linguistico dal latino all’italiano, usando 
moltissimi esempi concreti, definendo concetti linguistici e riferendosi a sviluppi fonetici 
o morfologici nei volgari e spesso nei dialetti. E un libro agevole, di contenuti 
tradizionali, ma con una differenza: quella di includere anche illustrazioni annotate di 
cinque volgari diversi dal toscano. E veramente sorprendente, tuttavia, che come tanti 
altri manuali di grammatica storica dell’ italiano neanche questo vada oltre i limiti imposti 
dalla tradizione. Manca quasi nella sua totalita l’analisi dei cambiamenti dall’ italiano 
letterario all’italiano contemporaneo (ma alcuni esempi che riportano la discussione ai 
nostri giorni si trovano a p. 56 [dittongamenti] e a p. 82 [figo]). Per esempio, la vasta 
mole del materiale linguistico potrebbe essere analizzata anche da punti di vista diversi 
da quelli tradizionali. Inoltre, per quanto riguarda la fonetica, anche oggi vigono certe 
regole dell’italiano antico, mentre alcune altre non sono pit produttive; per es., 
lassimilazione progressiva del nesso consonantico /ks/ non é pil sentita necessaria (si 
veda il prestito sexy /seksi/ in contrasto con dixi>dissi), mentre il raddoppiamento della 
consonante intervocalica pretonica é ancora vivo (si veda il prestito adattato cliccare): in 
altre parole, ci sono regole produttive esistenti ancora oggi, mentre altre non vengono 
sentite pil. come tali. 

Inoltre la trattazione evita completamente una discussione anche diacronica della 
problematica del numero e del timbro delle vocali dell’italiano moderno vivo e opta per 
una soluzione classicamente ideale, cioé quella di sette fonemi vocalici italiani. Né é¢ 
chiaro, trattandosi di manuale di grammatica storica, perché non viene offerta una 
datazione concreta; cosi viene spiegato che “dalla base latina [...] in italiano antico si é 
avuto dapprima decembre; in seguito [...] si € avuto dicembre [...]” (p. 63), omettendo 
pero la datazione di questo e di altri fenomeni discussi. 

Tuttavia queste osservazioni detraggono poco dall’utilita e dalla completezza del 
materiale, che viene trattato seguendo da vicino la forma espositiva tradizionale. La 
ricchezza degli esempi e la prospettiva dei volgari non toscani fanno di questo agevole 
libro un manualetto indispensabile per chi si accinge per la prima volta a studiare la 
grammatica storica dell’ italiano. 

Jana Vizmuller-Zocco, York University 


524 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Antonello Borra, Guittone d’Arezzo e le maschere del poeta. La lirica cortese tra 
ironia e palinodia, “Memoria del tempo” 19, Collana di studi medievali e 
rinascimentali diretta da Michelangelo Picone, Ravenna, Longo, 2000. 

La rivalutazione complessiva del ruolo di Guittone d’Arezzo nell’orizzonte letterario 
italiano delle Origini pud ben dirsi merito intero della filologia e dell’esegesi 
novecentesca, che ha compiuto e sta compiendo il suo periplo attorno ai manoscritti pid 
antichi della lirica italiana, per 1 quali ormai disponiamo di eccezionali sussidi filologici. 
La prima edizione a stampa moderna delle poesie di Guittone, fornita da Lodovico 
Valeriani nel 1828 (Rime di Frate Guittone d’Arezzo, Firenze, Morandi, 1828, 2 voll.), 
preceduta a sua volta dalla prima edizione delle lettere (curata da monsignor Giovanni 
Bottari nel 1745), non aveva contributo ad un’auscultazione del testo guittoniano esente 
da preconcetti, che anzi si rafforzarono a seguito dell’impressionistica lettura 
desanctisiana, fortemente discriminante nel gusto. Un sostanzioso supporto e apporto alla 
lettura diretta del testo venne dall’edizione diplomatica dei due fondamentali canzonieri 
toscani che ne contengono |’opera: il Vaticano Latino 3793 (pubblicato da Alessandro 
D’Ancona, Domenico Comparetti, Tommaso Casini, Le antiche rime volgari secondo la 
lezione del codice Vaticano 3793, Bologna, Romagnoli Dall’ Acqua, 1877—1888, 5 voll.) 
e il Laurenziano Rediano 9 (// Canzoniere Laurenziano Rediano 9, a cura di Tommaso 
Casini, Bologna, Romagnoli Dall’ Acqua, 1900). L’edizione selettiva dei “versi d’amore”, 
pubblicata dal Pellegrini (Le Rime di Fra Guittone d'Arezzo, Bologna, Romagnoli 
Dall’ Acqua, 1901) all’inizio del secolo, sulla scorta delle precedenti ‘diplomatiche’, non 
riusci a stimolare un vero e proprio dibattito critico, fatta salva la cospicua monografia 
del Pellizzari (La vita e le opere di Guittone d’Arezzo, Pisa, Nistri, 1906). Spiand tuttavia 
la strada alle ricerche dell’Egidi, che nel 1931 diede notizia d’un consistente ritrovamento 
in un codice della Biblioteca dell’Escorial di Madrid (Un trattato d'amore inedito di 
Guittone d'Arezzo, “Giornale storico della letteratura italiana”, 97, 1931, pp. 49-70) e nel 
1940 pubblicd nella Collezione crociana degli “Scrittori d'Italia” l’edizione delle rime 
che assumera e tuttora svolge (in attesa dell’edizione critica alla quale ¢ noto che stia 
lavorando Michelangelo Picone) il ruolo di vulgata poetica guittoniana. Edizione 
prontamente escussa dal Contini in una memorabile recensione (apparsa nel “Giornale 
storico della letteratura italiana”, 117, 1941, pp. 55-82). Si apri allora una fervida prima 
stagione di studi sull’opera di Guittone d’ Arezzo, imperniata anche intorno ai continiani 
Poeti del Duecento (Milano/Napoli, Ricciardi, 1960), nella quale spiccano le ricerche di 
Claude Margueron, culminate nel ponderoso volume del 1966, e gli interventi, a vario 
livello, di De Robertis (1953), Segre (1962/63), Folena (1965), Minetti (1974), Moleta 
(1976), Avalle (1977), Santagata (1979): insomma della migliore filologia italiana dal 
secondo dopoguerra a questa parte. 

La nuova e pit recente stagione della critica guittoniana si é avviata negli anni 
Ottanta, a partire dai saggi di Picone e Lino Leonardi (1988), raggiungendo l’acme 
nell’edizione dei sonetti del Canzoniere Laurenziano, allestita da quest’ultimo per la 
“Nuova raccolta di classici italiani” dell’Einaudi (1994: su cui si dovra almeno tenere 
presente il puntuale intervento recensorio di Marco Berisso, Una nuova proposta 
editoriale (e interpretativa) per Guittone d’Arezzo, “Rassegna della Letteratura Italiana”, 
99 (1995), 1-2, pp. 58-67), immediatamente preceduta dal convegno di Arezzo nel 
settimo centenario della morte dell’autore (1993). 

Questa rapida rassegna della critica appare conveniente a situare il lavoro di Borra 
nell’ottica entro la quale il medesimo studioso vuole collocarsi, come avverte 


525 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


nell’introduzione. La sobria monografia da lui confezionata sull’aretino tiene conto infatti 
dei principali risultati a cui é pervenuta l’esegesi pil’ aggiornata e propone una rilettura 
d’insieme dell’opera di Guittone, considerata esclusivamente sul versante lirico, con 
lobiettivo dichiarato di “sondare in profondita la produzione poetica dell’aretino 
concentrandosi sull’io lirico guittoniano e sull’ordinamento dei testi cosi come viene 
presentato dai canzonieri coevi 0 immediatamente successivi [...] e cercare di definire, 
sullo sfondo della tradizione lirica cortese, quello che era il progetto artistico di Guittone” 
(p. 13). 

La monografia di Borra é il riversamento a stampa della sua tesi di dottorato in 
Italianistica, discussa presso la Brown University nel 1998 sotto la guida di Anthony 
Oldcorn (cfr. il curriculum nel sito della University of Vermont, Burlington, Department 
of Romance Languages, URL <http://www.uvm.edu/~aborra/CV.2002.html>, dove 
attualmente lo studioso presta servizio). Dell’originaria occasione e destinazione risente 
ancora il lavoro pubblicato, che si risolve in un’esposizione divulgativa comunque 
apprezzabile, la quale assume il tenore assai pacato di una /ectura mirata a valorizzare il 
consistente ed originale apporto dell’opera poetica di Guittone al canone lirico italiano 
duecentesco avanti lo stilnovo. 

Circostanza, questa, che ci induce a riflettere su alcuni importanti aspetti della 
poesia italiana delle Origini. Anzitutto |’esistenza concreta, partendo proprio dall’esordio 
della nostra letteratura, del ‘libro d’autore’, inteso non solo e non tanto in quanto codice 
confezionato dall’autore per raccogliere complessivamente la propria opera, ma come 
struttura dell’opera stessa. Sulla base di questa ipotesi, che Guittone sia stato l’autore di 
“un’opera unitaria, costituita dalla serie di 86 sonetti conservati nel codice Laurenziano”, 
si articola gia la tesi di Leonardi (da cui Borra prende le mosse), impegnato a dimostrare 
la compattezza strutturale, appunto, di quello che si definisce come il primo canzoniere 
autonomo nella storia della poesia italiana in lingua di si. La dicotomia, costruita magari 
a posteriori, tra Guittone amoroso e frate Guittone, ripropone quindi sostanzialmente il 
conflitto tra ‘sacro’ e ‘profano’, che si riflette nel binomio peccato/penitenza, il quale 
rappresenta una costante della mentalita medievale fino alle sue estreme propaggini 
tardogotiche. Infine la “delegittimazione del codice cortese” messa in atto dal poeta, in 
termini di trasgressiva ironia nei confronti dei modelli d’oltralpe e degli interlocutori 
provenzali (un retroterra che non si presenta pil come remoto ma si riconosce come 
contemporaneo), viene realizzata mediante il ricorso alla tipologia della ‘tenzone’, sulla 
quale s’impernia I’intero “canzoniere” laurenziano. E cid avviene con modalita analoghe 
a quelle gia sperimentate dai Siciliani, primo dei quali il Notaio. 

Guittone, anzi, appartiene in maniera vitale a quel circuito che collega l’esperienza 
siciliana alla tradizione provenzale, al punto da esserne efficace propulsore e mediatore, 
quando si pensi soltanto alla sua corrispondenza con Corraduccio di Sterleto, feudatario 
di Federico II e committente del Donat proensal di Uc de Saint Circ, testo—cardine per la 
diffusione della letteratura occitanica in Italia) Ma non resta senza attrattive la 
plausibilissima ipotesi, avanzata da Leonardi (nell’introduzione all’edizione dei sonetti 
Laurenziani), secondo cui alla struttura formale del “libro” di Guittone, di cui parla 
Benvenuto da Imola, sarebbe ispirato il “/ibre” di Guiraut Riquier, uno dei piu illustri 
canzonieri d’autore della poesia occitanica. Altrettanto importante risulta evidentemente 
la netta contrapposizione di registro nel passaggio dai sonetti alle canzoni, che demarca 
due piani stilistici distinti e separati. Alla luce della lettura di Lino Leonardi non sfugge 
ormai |’importanza dell’operazione fortemente critica di Guittone nei confronti del 


526 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


linguaggio poetico contemporaneo, rispetto al quale egli attua un intervento di rigorosa 
scissione ideologica, pur mantenendosene sempre ll’interno. Sulla base 
dell’ identificazione del canzoniere Laurenziano in quanto tale, cioé in quanto organico e 
unitario complesso macrotestuale, si apre e viene illuminata anche da Leonardi la 
questione del Fiore di ser Durante, riletto proprio come chiaro antecedente strutturale 
(dal punto di vista diegetico, dello sviluppo narrativo, ma anche da quello dell’azione 
drammatica) rispetto alla Vita nova, appunto in stretta connessione con I’opera in sonetti 
di Guittone, dalla quale peraltro trarrebbe spunto inoltre la concatenazione della terza 
rima dantesca nella Commedia. (Per tutte queste osservazioni, il punto di partenza 
obbligatorio resta sempre l’introduzione di Lino Leonardi a Guittone d’Arezzo, 
Canzoniere: i sonetti d'amore del codice Laurenziano, Torino, Einaudi, 1994, pp. XIII- 
LIX.) 

Da queste sommarie considerazioni prendera dunque l’abbrivo il lettore della 
trattazione di Borra, che si presenta schematicamente distribuita nelle seguenti quattro 
parti. La prima (// corpus guittoniano, pp. 17-23) & dedicata ad una sintetica 
presentazione dei materiali poetici di Guittone, articolata tra le fonti manoscritte e le pit 
notevoli edizioni a stampa, rilevando in particolare la separazione tra le due fasi 
biografiche dell’autore che assumono rilievo dirimente nella sua attivita letteraria, cioé 
prima e dopo |’ingresso (datato al 1265) nell’ordine dei Milites Beatae Virginis Mariae. 
La seconda (Le palinodie, la vergogna, lo sguardo sul passato, pp. 27-46) si occupa 
dell’analisi delle canzoni e dei sonetti morali, mentre la terza (Alla corte di Amore, pp. 
48-75) considera, in maniera complementare all’altra, i sonetti erotici e le canzoni 
amorose. La quarta e ultima (G/i orizzonti di riferimento, pp. 79-93) formula un bilancio 
degli influssi su Guittone dell’esperienza siciliana e della poetica dei trovatori. Nelle 
stringate Conclusioni (pp. 97-100) viene ribadita la tesi cardine del lavoro di Borra, che 
sostiene “la scommessa guittoniana”, ossia il progressivo disvelarsi, nel passaggio da 
“Guittone” a “frate Guittone”, della finzione narrativa del codice cortese, sottolineando 
quella che si puo ritenere a tutti gli effetti l’operazione fortemente metaletteraria (e anche 
metalinguistica) compiuta dall’aretino: “[...] la poesia d’amore di Guittone non si 
proponeva affatto di rivitalizzare il codice cortese ma, pur rimanendo all’interno di quelle 
stesse coordinate linguistiche, realizzava una critica radicale della sua astrattezza e della 
sua ambiguita” (p. 98). 

Il volume (impaginato e stampato con nitida eleganza su carta Fabriano “Palatina”, 
dettaglio esteriore ma non indifferente nell’era del libro elettronico) é suggellato da una 
bibliografia essenziale, ripartita tra testi di Guittone (1), testi di riferimento (2), studi, 
antologie, repertori, dizionari (3). 

Luigi M. Reale, /stituto Comprensivo Statale, Clusone (Bergamo), Italia 


Graham Smith. The Stone of Dante and Later Florentine Celebrations of the Poet. 
Firenze: Leo S. Olschki Editore, 2000. Pp. 70. 

Smith’s book, published within Leo Olschki’s series Biblioteca dell’Archivum 
Romanicum (Serie I: Storia, Letteratura, Paleografia), is a much-needed exploration of 
one of the principal topoi to appear in 19th-century European artistic and literary 
expressions of interest in Dante: the legend of the “sasso di Dante.” Smith’s volume is the 
first study to consider seriously, and attempt to understand and explicate, a legend which 
informed much of the production of arts and letters in 19th-century Europe with Dante as 


527 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


focus. As such, the book’s appearance is much appreciated since Smith gathers, 
documents, and clarifies much factual information concerning the physical existence of 
the “sasso” itself as a commemorated site. Smith also provides useful information 
regarding the origins of several of Florence’s 19th-century monuments dedicated to 
Dante, such as those at the Church of Santa Croce by Ricci (1830) and by Pazzi (1865), 
the Uffizi statue by Demi (1842), and the discovery in 1840 of what was believed, at the 
time, to be Giotto’s “portrait” of Dante, in what is now the chapel of the Palazzo del 
Bargello. 

In brief, the “sasso di Dante,” or Stone of Dante, in legend is a site overlooking the 
south flank of Santa Maria del Fiore, the Duomo in Florence, where Dante liked to sit on 
summer evenings. This site was marked at some point by a marble block, which in legend 
was Dante’s footstone, and in the 19th century this footstone was engraved with the 
words “Sasso di Dante.” 

Thankfully, Smith clears up the misconception, part of the legend, that from the 
“sasso” Dante could see the Campanile (he could certainly not see the Duomo itself as it 
was not constructed until the 15th century, and even its foundations were not begun until 
several decades after Dante’s death). Smith reveals that during Dante’s lifetime, the area 
around the Campanile and what would become the Duomo was crowded with buildings. 
The creation of a space around these structures, which presently allows a view of the 
Campanile from the “sasso,” was created only in the 19th century. Smith also 
demonstrates that the marble footstone marking the site of the “sasso” itself was moved 
several times in the 19th century, finally resting in a position assumed to be near that of 
the original. 

In the 19th century, as Smith demonstrates, the “sasso” appeared often in the 
writings of English poets, novelists, and travel writers, becoming an important motif 
within their constructions of Dante’s life and legend. Smith speculates that British literati 
had a need for emotional intimacy with the vaunted Florentine poet, which was 
apparently fulfilled by the “sasso” — a place where those seeking its inspiration could 
personally feel Dante’s “genius.” Thus, Samuel Rogers, William Wordsworth, John 
Ruskin, and Charles Dickens, among many others, made use of the “sasso” legend in this 
vein in both their published writings and private letters, as Smith demonstrates. 

Smith devotes the first part of his book to exploration of the reception of the “sasso” 
legend and the literature it inspired among British writers. The second part of his book is 
devoted to a discussion of what he argues was the usurpation of the legend by the Dante 
monuments of the 19th century at Santa Croce and the Uffizi, and the discovery of the 
Giotto portrait of Dante. While the information Smith provides here regarding the 
commissions of these monuments and the festivities accompanying their installation is 
highly useful for scholars of the 19th-century interest in Dante, it is here that Smith’s 
assertions regarding the intentions underlying the commissions for these monuments 
become less convincing. Smith contends that the Santa Croce monuments particularly 
were part of Florence’s effort not only to “re-patriate” her exiled poet to Tuscany — a 
wholly reasonable assumption with which I concur — but also were intended to 
counteract what he consistently refers to as “the Englishness” of the “sasso” legend. 

While Smith certainly does convince the reader that the legend figured prominently 
in the writings of the British during this period, he does not investigate the interest in it 
demonstrated contemporaneously by the French and the Germans in order to substantiate 
this assertion of “Englishness.” Without an exhaustive cross-cultural study of the 


$28 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


reception of the legend in the 19th century this claim cannot be substantiated. Smith’s 
lack of reference in either footnotes or bibliography to Werner Friedrich’s fundamental 
study of the European and American interest in the poet, Dante’s Fame Abroad, 1350- 
1850 (Chapel Hill, U of North Carolina P, 1950) and his reliance on Toynbee 
demonstrate that his concern is limited, in reality, to Britain’s reception and use of the 
“sasso” legend, and then to its displacement in British writing by the later 19th-century 
Florentine monuments. While it would be fair and convincing to assert that, among 
British writers, the “sasso” lost its importance after the installation of the later 
monuments, it seems to me an unnecessary extension of Smith’s investigations without 
sufficient supporting apparatus to claim that Florence intended this displacement to 
combat “Englishness.” 

Further, Smith’s text suffers from a lack of socio-political contextualization. The 
upheavals in Europe before and after the fall of Napoleon, the subsequent restoration of 
the Bourbons in France and elsewhere, the installation of the Hapsburg Ferdinando III in 
Tuscany, the movement to unify and create an Italian nation, and England’s relation to 
these events: all of these factors must be considered in order to understand fully not only 
the interests of English writers in Dante, but their appearance as travelers in Tuscany 
specifically during this period, as well as Florence’s attempts to “re-patriate” Dante. This 
type of study would be of necessity quite extensive — much beyond the goals of a very 
focused consideration such as the volume under review — but is stimulated by the 
present work and the questions it raises. Similarly, Smith’s study is essentially limited to 
the investigation of literary works, with the exception of a brief discussion of the role of 
Kirkup in disseminating the Giotto portrait of Dante, and the impact of the discovery of 
this portrait upon the art works of Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Henry Holiday. Particularly 
during the burgeoning of Romanticism, arts and letters enjoyed a relationship of mutual 
stimulation unique to the period. Smith, however, does not consider the importance of the 
“sasso” legend on British artists of the period, nor of their role in stimulating and 
perpetuating the interest in Dante and this particular legend among British writers. Smith 
does not mention, for example, John Flaxman’s illustrations of the Commedia, first 
engraved and published in Rome in 1793, and then issued in 1807 accompanied by the 
appropriate quotations from Dante from Henry Boyd’s English translation. Flaxman’s 
illustrations were influential on artists throughout Europe (for example, among the 
students of French artist Jacques-Louis David, who were the first in France to exhibit 
works with Dante as subject, and among the German artists living in Rome called the 
Nazarenes, who exhibited marked interest in Dante), and, no doubt then, on writers as 
well. Blake and Fuseli certainly figure in the growth of interest in Dante in Britain in the 
period Smith considers, and it would be worth investigating their knowledge of the 
“‘sasso” legend and its use within their imagery. Sadly, they too are omitted. 

To conclude, Smith’s Stone of Dante, despite its limitations, is an important addition 
to the literature on the reception of and interest in Dante’s works, life, and legend in the 
19th century. The information Smith provides about the origins of the “sasso” tale and its 
importance in British writing of the 19th century sheds new light on one of the most 
significant aspects of the Dante legend. What Smith reveals of the British interest in it 
stimulates questions regarding the knowledge and use of the legend in France, Germany, 
and the United States, exploration of which will illuminate the substantial interest in 
Dante not only among writers of the period, but also among artists. 

Aida Audeh, Hamline University 


529 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Giuseppe Ledda. La guerra della lingua. Ineffabilita, retorica e narrativa nella 
“Commedia” di Dante. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 2002. Pp. 376. 

Il libro di Giuseppe Ledda é diviso in due parti: nella prima parte vengono studiati i 
“topoi dell’indicibilita nel sistema degli inteventi dell’io narrante” (8) e nella seconda i 
“tdpoi dell’indicibilita nel sistema di relazioni tra Dante poeta e Dante personaggio” (9). 
La prima parte — “La retorica dell’esordio e Dante come poeta-personaggio” — inizia con 
l’affermazione secondo cui le dichiarazioni dell’impossibilita di esprimersi da parte del 
poeta si configurano come “atti di commento” (15) e mette in luce che Dante poeta é a 
sua volta un personaggio. L’analisi dei tdpoi dell’indicibilita comincia con il riferimento 
alla protasi ed alle invocazioni della tradizione virgiliano-serviana, una tradizione 
regolata dall’exordium della retorica antica e medioevale. In questa tradizione l’exordium 
intende suscitare benevolenza, attenzione, disponibilita, e nello stesso tempo possiede 
una funzione informativa, quest’ultima particolarmente sottolineata da Aristotele. Una 
conclusione, offerta da Curtius, é che “a partire dalle norme dell’oratoria forense si 
svilupparono una serie di formule di modestia che poi si diffusero enormemente prima 
nella tarda Antichita, sia pagana che cristiana, poi nella letteratura latina medievale e 
nelle letterature romanze” (20). Tra le “formule di modestia” Ledda cita i fdpoi 
dell’indicibilita (con accento sull’insufficienza a parte subiecti 0 sull’eccesso a parte 
obiecti), del sapere condiviso 0 dell’esordio (cioé l’obbligo di rendere gli altri partecipi 
delle proprie conoscenze), del dovere della lode (in cui si riconosce |’impossibilita di 
lodare adeguatamente Dio, ma si rifiuta anche Il’ipotesi del silenzio). L’analisi delle 
protasi e delle invocazioni della Commedia conduce alla conclusione che sia le protasi 
che le invocazioni possono essere assimilate alla topica dell’indicibilita, funzionale alla 
“rappresentazione della vicenda di un poeta che, alle prese con il compito straordinario 
che gli € stato affidato, lotta contro i limiti delle proprie capacita umane di ricordo e 
scrittura” (54). Ci sono anche altri ¢dpoi presi in considerazione da Ledda, ossia quelli 
della novita, dell’incredibilita e della meraviglia, che intendono suscitare o ridestare 
l’attenzione del pubblico, in un processo di iperboli funzionali alla rappresentazione 
dantesca dell’aldila e che funzionano anche come strumento retorico alternativo. 

L’analisi dei topoi dell’indicibilita conduce alla discussione degli appelli al lettore 
nella Commedia, i cui aspetti fondamentali sono “l’interruzione del racconto e il 
rivolgersi al lettore” (118). In essi ricorrono spesso verbi relativi all’attivita del narratore 
e verbi tecnici della scrittura poetica. Negli appelli l’attenzione ¢ dunque posta non solo 
sul lettore ma anche sul poeta e sulla sua poesia, e in molti casi gli appelli al lettore si 
presentano come “varianti dei tdpoi dell’ indicibilita” (130). In particolare si segnala il 
primo tra gli appelli al lettore che presenta la combinazione con i tépoi dell’ indicibilita. 
Esso si trova nell’ultimo canto dell’/nferno (34: 22-27). Si tratta di una parodia 
cristologica di testi biblici, sia nell’incipit del canto, sia nell’espressione “Ecco Dite”. Si 
ha la parodia della Trinita e della teologia trinitaria nella rappresentazione di Lucifero 
come |’anti-dio; la parodia dell’immagine del serafino prima della caduta; la parodia del 
linguaggio mistico. L’ineffabilita dell’esperienza dell’incontro del pellegrino con il rex 
inferni & simile all’ineffabilita mistica, poi limitata e svelata come un’iperbole, cosi 
“anche le dimensioni di Lucifero sono gigantesche si ma limitate e misurabili, in 
opposizione all’illimitata grandezza, all’insindacabile mistero, all’infinito eccesso della 
vera divinita” (173). 

Nella seconda parte del libro — “‘Retorica e narrativa dello scacco: silenzio oblio 
cecita” — Ledda studia la topica dell’indicibilita nel quadro dei rapporti tra l’io narrante 


530 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


(Dante poeta) e l’io narrato (Dante personaggio). Cid significa mettere in relazione i tdpoi 
dell’indicibilita con altri fenomeni quali impossibilita, scacco, fallimento, cedimento 
relativi a Dante personaggio: “Mentre dalla parte del poeta si hanno impossibilita di dire 
o di scrivere, talvolta motivate da cedimenti/impossibilita memoriali, immaginativi, 
intellettuali, dalla parte del personaggio si hanno pure cedimenti linguistici, memoriali, 
intellettuali, immaginativi, ma i pil importanti sono quelli sensoriali, cioé uditivi e visivi” 
(177). Analizzando gli scacchi e le indicibilita dell’/nferno, si citano esempi di mancata 
percezione, indicata come causa dell’impossibilita di dire da parte di Dante poeta. II caso 
del sonno é un esempio tipico, poiché esso impedisce la percezione e implicitamente la 
narrazione; cosi anche lo scacco della vista causato dal buio, che costituisce un ostacolo 
temporaneo alla visione del pellegrino ed alla descrizione del poeta. Lo scacco della vista 
inoltre serve a mettere in evidenza cid che si vedra una volta superato |’impedimento. Sul 
versante di Dante personaggio si possono citare i riferimenti iperbolici al puzzo infernale, 
0 ai suoni terribili provenienti dai lamenti dei dannati sofferenti. Sul versante di Dante 
poeta gli scacchi riconducibili alla topica dell’indicibilita si riferiscono quasi 
esclusivamente ad un’indicibilita quantitativa. Per quanto riguarda il Purgatorio, Dante 
agisce in maniera consistente con la teologia medievale che sfruttava l’iperbole in 
riferimento al fuoco purgatoriale e usava la “topica dell’indicibile, dell’inconcepibile, 
dell’inimmaginabile, oltre che quella del superamento di ogni simile esperienza terrena” 
(211). Tuttavia, i fenomeni topici osservati nel Purgatorio riguardano soprattutto 
laspetto degli angeli, cosi luminosi ed abbaglianti da provocare |l’accecamento 
temporaneo del pellegrino, e la loro voce straordinaria. In un contesto di ripetitivita degli 
incontri si notano cedimenti linguistici di Dante poeta e cedimenti sensoriali di Dante 
personaggio, insieme con iperboli relative agli elementi visivi ed uditivi delle apparizioni 
angeliche. Nel Paradiso gli scacchi percettivi di Dante personaggio e quelli memoriali e 
linguistici di Dante poeta si alternano e si intrecciano di continuo: il motivo del raptus 
paolino (il pellegrino non sa se il salire al cielo sia in corpo o fuori dal corpo); quello dei 
dubbi ed errori dottrinali; l’incapacita di capire quel che accade; l’altezza e difficolta 
della materia; il tema “cruciale dello scacco ermeneutico del pellegrino e di quello della 
ragione umana davanti ai misteri della giustizia divina” (277). La conclusione del 
Paradiso mostra |’estrema stupefazione di Dante-personaggio, sopraffatto dalla visione di 
Dio, rappresentata ricorrendo all’afasia ed allo scacco linguistico-comunicativo. 

Ci si pud congratulare con Giuseppe Ledda per uno studio ricco, coerente, 
documentatissimo, corredato di note ed indici puntuali nonché di un’estesa ed accurata 
bibliografia. In particolare Ledda offre una convincente analisi della “guerra della lingua” 
annunciata nel titolo del volume, poiché la metafora rappresenta ad un tempo la lotta che 
Dante sostiene contro i propri limiti umani nel tentativo di rappresentare |’aldila e la lotta 
del poeta contro una cosi alta materia. 

Diego Fasolini, Vassar College 


Maria Luisa Ardizzone. Guido Cavalcanti. The Other Middle Ages. Toronto: U of 
Toronto P, 2002. Pp. 231. 

Guido Cavalcanti is unique for several reasons. First, he represents a medieval tradition 
which is different from the one that converges in Dante. Furthermore, Cavalcanti’s 
uniqueness consists in his attitude of disbelief and the quality of his poetry. From here, 
Maria Luisa Ardizzone focuses on “Guido’s intellectual profile” (5), while she attempts 


531 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


to reconstruct this profile in light of the cultural environment of Bologna’s studium in the 
late thirteenth century. In particular, considering the circulation of ideas between Paris 
and Bologna, the author intends to evaluate the culture from which Cavalcanti draws. 
Moreover, the book considers Cavalcanti’s poetry — first and foremost the canzone 
“Donna me prega” — in the context of the philosophical debate of the period, and always 
looks at Cavalcanti as a poet, a natural philosopher, and a logician. Guido’s poetry, then, 
seeking a connection between natural philosophy and logic, can be defined as a “vortex,” 
a term introduced by Ezra Pound. Ardizzone’s main thesis is that Cavalcanti represents 
the “other Middle-Ages,” for Guido seeks answers to human dilemmas not in theology 
but in biology, medicine, and natural philosophy, a method that clearly distinguishes him 
from Dante. 

The first chapter, “Love as a Metaphor: The Discourse and the Method,” reads some 
of Guido’s minor poems in a context of “rhetoric of passion,” in which “the ego is 
represented as acted upon by its passions and managed by its centers of sensations” (6). 
Analyzing Cavalcanti’s method, Ardizzone focuses on the important role that medicine 
plays: Guido’s words express functions, and these functions can be understood by 
looking at the bodily relations that the words bring to the page, and that transform the 
discourse on love into a series of events that poetry records. 

In the second chapter, “Vision and Logic,” the author analyzes “Donna me prega,” 
and stresses the influence of Averroism on Cavalcanti, along with the interpretation of 
Aristotle prevalent between Paris and Bologna in the late thirteenth century. The canzone 
defines love as “accident,” and “suggests a connection between the fields of logic and 
physics” (50). The entire poem is organized around notions derived from Aristotle’s 
logic, partially related to the Categories. Logic is employed to bring love into the domain 
of the philosophy of nature; therefore, we can “recognize the basic Aristotelianism of 
‘Donna me prega,’ in which love as passion implies the passivity of the receiver” (51). 
As for the question of whether or not love is visible, Cavalcanti, drawing from Aristotle’s 
theory of vision, reaches the conclusion that the “accident” called love is diaphanous and 
is lived and known by man only as obscurity. Thus, love is not visible to man. The 
chapter is really organized around the metaphor of the diaphanous, and “Donna me 
prega” is also read in the light of optics. Love, while dark for man, is in itself diaphanous, 
a conclusion reached by considering the logical tools used by Cavalcanti, as well as the 
science of optics. From the metaphor of the diaphanous emerges Guido’s Averroism, or 
radical Aristotelianism. 

The third chapter, “Love as Passion,” studies Cavalcanti’s theory of passion as it 
appears in “Donna me prega,” and focuses on the relation between passion and natural 
philosophy. Dino Del Garbo, the first commentator to assert that passion is the theme of 
the poem, noted that love is an “accident” because it is not a substance, but manifests 
itself in a subject as an appetite or a desire. It is an accident because it can either take 
place or not. Del Garbo, linking Cavalcanti’s explanation of love to natural science paves 
the way for considering passion as the content of “Donna me prega,” in which love stands 
for passion. Del Garbo suggests a relation between passion and natural philosophy, and 
between passion and logic, which leads to the conclusion that Cavalcanti, applying the 
tools of logic, “puts forth philosophical truths as opposed to theological beliefs” (73). 
Boccaccio, who transmitted the popular belief of Guido’s atheism, confirms Cavalcanti’s 
fame as natural philosopher, and his idea of passion as derived from Aristotle’s physics. 
In “Donna me prega,” love appears to be considered as part of the Aristotelian theory of 


$32 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


matter dominated by necessity and passion, thus detaching the ego from ethics because it 
subjects the ego itself to the rules of matter. The dangers of this theory of matter for the 
Christian faith — a theory recalled through the statement that love is created — are that 
“the eternity of matter indirectly recalls the theory of the eternity of the world and denies 
the biblical notion of creation” (77). 

Chapter four, “Pleasure and Intellectual Happiness: Guido Cavalcanti and Giacomo 
da Pistoia,” considers Giacomo da Pistoia’s Quaestio de felicitate, dedicated to 
Cavalcanti. Ardizzone portrays Cavalcanti as a radical Aristotelian, because for Guido 
intellectual happiness does not pertain to man. Rather, the happiness of a human being 
derives from what gives him satisfaction, i.e., the body’s desires. Logic and optics are 
used by Cavalcanti to show that man’s pleasure of love consists solely in darkness, that 
is, in sensuality. While Giacomo da Pistoia insists on intellectual happiness, Cavalcanti 
focuses on love. Giacomo is interested in ethics and metaphysics, while Cavalcanti 
prefers physics, to which man’s individuality — the sensitive soul — belongs. Man, 
according to Cavalcanti, “knows only the sensible being of love” (120). 

The fifth and last chapter, “Cavalcanti at the Centre of the Western Canon: Ezra 
Pound as Reader of ‘Donna me prega’,” underlines Ezra Pound’s role in bringing 
Cavalcanti into twentieth-century poetry. Pounds puts Cavalcanti’s poetry at the center of 
the Western canon and makes it the point of confluence with the Chinese tradition. 
Moreover, Ezra Pound emphasizes the role of the body and of the imagination in Guido’s 
poetry. In opposition to Thomism, Pound tries to understand the Arabic message freed of 
the conditioning of Catholicism. Pound’s polemic tone against Christian asceticism and 
its hatred of the corporeal culminate in his emphasis on what for him is the main message 
of “Donna me prega”: the “perfection of the body as the basis of intellectual perfection, 
and the body as responsible for organizing the activity of intelligence” (143). 

Maria Luisa Ardizzone has written a very interesting book, in which she offers her 
interpretation of Cavalcanti’s ideas about the nature of love and its effects. “Donna me 
prega,” in particular, has been the subject of endless studies, beginning with the 
commentary of the fourteenth-century physician Dino Del Garbo. Even today scholars 
discuss whether the canzone has to be interpreted along the lines of Arabic Neo- 
Platonism or in terms of the philosophy of Albertus Magnus, or that of Aristotelian- 
Scholasticism, or that of Averroism. However, the most compelling argument Ardizzone 
makes is stressing the presence, in Cavalcanti’s poetry, of sciences such as optics, logic, 
biology, natural philosophy, medicine. From this point of view, Cavalcanti is, indeed, the 
“other Middle Ages,” an anti-Dante in a sense, as Dante tends to think that human 
difficulties can be resolved through theology and faith. Ardizzone has written, ultimately, 
about Guido’s uniqueness: Cavalcanti sees human life as filled with passions and desires, 
and passion is in fact what may allow human beings to activate the process of 
imagination and intelligence. 

Diego Fasolini, Vassar College 


Reading Medieval Studies 27 (2001). Special Issue. Dante. Current Trend in Dante 
Studies. Edited by Claire E. Honess. 

El volumen XXVII (2001) de los “Estudios medievales de Reading” presenta seis 
interesantes articulos, cuatro de los cuales fueron expuestos en el Simposio de Verano 
(junio 2000) del Centro de Estudios Medievales de la misma Universidad de Reading. 


533 Annali d’italianistica 


El primero, “Tres notas sobre Dante y Horacio” de Zygmunt Bara ski da las 
razones por las que Dante sitta “en el principio” del Ars Poetica (poema de 476 versos) 
las citas de los versos 38 y 70 en el Convivio y en el De Vulgari Eloquentia. Luego 
explica por qué Dante, curiosamente, no menciona en este ultimo libro a Cicer6n como 
modelo de prosista. Los argumentos de Bara _ ski se desarrollan sobre una sana base, cual 
es la lectura que de los clasicos practicaba la misma gente del Medioevo. 

El segundo trata de “La ciencia medieval en la Comedia de Dante: investigaciones 
del pasado y orientaciones futuras”. Simon Gilson efectia una ligera revisién de los 
enfoques pasados sin olvidar los “anacronismos crocianos” y luego deja constancia de su 
deseo de que esta materia se estudie contextualmente, como ya lo habian iniciado Bruno 
Nardi y Etienne Gilson. Se nota en el autor cierto escaso interés por las referencias 
matematicas, maxime geomeétricas de Dante; en efecto, muchas de ellas resultan ser de 
suma trascendencia (véase Julio Picasso Mufioz, “El tres y el circulo”, Revista Teoldégica 
Limense 23, n. 3 — 1989). 

“El lenguaje del exilio en Dante” es el elaborado por Katherine Keen, donde se 
analiza agudamente cémo la situaciédn de exiliado politico, legal, religioso del poeta 
influyé en sus obras incluso en las anteriores al exilio propiamente dicho. El tema es 
fundamental y merecedor de mayor atenci6n de parte de los dantélogos. Muy justamente 
Keen considera en sintesis la Comedia como el “poema del peregrino”, como un 
“itinerarium mentis in Deum”, tal como se llama el libro homénimo de San 
Buenaventura, tan leido por Dante. 

“Salomén en el Cielo del Sol de Dante” es el cuarto articulo del volumen, escrito por 
Paola Nasti. Para la autora, Salomon representaria el ideal dantiano de la sabiduria, pero 
los argumentos aducidos no convencen y menos aun ciertas afirmaciones como la de que 
el Santo Tomas dantiano “ofrece una palinodia” del estilo de sus propios libros porque en 
la Comedia “repetidamente emplea términos simbdlicos-poéticos”. La pregunta de por 
qué Salom6n est4 en el Cielo del Sol y no en el Cielo de Jupiter junto con su padre David 
se revela tal vez ociosa. Sin embargo, se revela atin mas discutible, en el articulo, la 
creencia de la autora sobre el hecho de que los bienaventurados dantianos extrafien 
sensiblemente su cuerpo: otra cosa seria la necesidad metafisica que el alma separada 
tiene para considerarse perfecta (y por ende, mas feliz) de reunirse en la resurreccién con 
su cuerpo. El alma, segin San Buenaventura, posee, mas bien, una “naturalis inclinatio” 
por la restitucién de su cuerpo, como bien sefiala Nardi. Sin embargo, esta doctrina del 
franciscano no es muy distinta de las “conveniencias naturales” de la resurreccién 
desarrollada por el Aquinate en la Suma contra los Gentiles. Se recuerda, ademas, que 
para el mismo Tomas, en la Suma Teologica, la resurreccién no se presenta como un 
hecho natural sino milagroso. En resumen, resulta complejo afirmar que haya en el 
discurso saloménico una preferencia por San Buenaventura y un abandono de la doctrina 
tomista. Salomén-Dante, Buenaventura y Tomas comparten la misma doctrina sobre este 
punto. Finalmente, sobre ese asunto, vale la pena afiadir que la Supl. g. 75 (De 
resurrectione) de la Suma Teologica puede leerse como la repeticién literal, realizada por 
Reginaldo de Piperna, del Comentario al Cuarto Libro de las Sentencias. 

“Planes dantianos de estructura en el Corbaccio” es el curioso articulo de Guyda 
Armstrong. La influencia de la Comedia en el Decameron es bastante conocida por los 
estudiosos, pero Armstrong se propone demostrar que las obras dantianas han influido 
con mas abundancia en otras obras de Boccaccio, el Corbaccio especificamente. Y en 
efecto, la autora despliega las innumerables alusiones dantianas en la miségina obra de 


534 Annali d’italianistica 2 (2003) 


Boccaccio: desde su propia estructura hasta los ecos textuales de penumbra. Sin embargo, 
la pregunta de qué restos dantianos habran Ilegado a Espafia a través del Corbacho del 
Arcipreste de Talavera se queda sin solucién: habria todavia mucho que estudiar al 
respecto. 

Rachel Owen nos ofrece “La recepcién de Dante por los ilustradores de la Comedia 
en los siglos XIV y XV”. Owen parece haber recorrido los mas de 500 cédigos de la 
Comedia elaborados en este periodo. Sin duda, muy instructivo resulta su trabajo, pero se 
lamenta la defectuosa reproduccién de ventiséis paginas de manuscritos ilustrados, la 
mayor parte provenientes de Florencia. 

Julio Picasso Mufioz, Universidad Catolica Sedes Sapientiae, Lima, Peru 


Jennifer Margaret Fraser. Rite of Passage in the Narratives of Dante and Joyce. 
Gainesville: UP of Florida, 2002. Pp. xx + 255. 

Jennifer Fraser’s Rite of Passage examines the relationships of intertextuality between 
Dante’s Commedia and Joyce’s Dubliners, Stephen Hero, A Portrait of the Artist as a 
Young Man, Ulysses, and Finnegans Wake. Her conceptualization of intertextuality is that 
of a dynamic process leading to the transformation of readers into writers by way of a 
pattern of death and rebirth, loss and recovery. While Fraser’s approach has the merit of 
avoiding the static typologies that are common in traditional source studies, her excessive 
adherence to psycho-mythical categories to explain relationships between texts is 
detrimental to historical perspective and context. Moreover, while this approach leads to 
a number of original insights in the pages devoted to Dante, Fraser’s charting of the 
metamorphic quality of Joyce’s corpus from Dubliners to the Wake simply confirms 
well-established critical assessments. 

In the introduction to the volume Fraser explains the twofold organization of her 
study as two separate but related sections or “panels” of four chapters each, on Dante and 
Joyce respectively. Drawing upon the metaphor of the diptych, a pair of hinged writing- 
tablets with a surface of wax on which a message could be engraved, Fraser argues that 
the hinge that ties together her investigation of Dante and Joyce is that of a poetic 
initiation from pilgrim to poet, or a change from reader into writer. This initiation is 
recorded in Dante’s reading of Virgil’s Aeneid and is integrated in Joyce’s work. In 
subsequent portions of her introduction, Fraser expands her concept of initiation. 
Drawing upon the work of Mircea Eliade and others, she argues that initiation implies a 
ritual of death and rebirth dependent upon a return to and separation from the womb. 
Moreover, precisely because this ritual leads to transformation, initiation becomes, for 
Fraser, a dynamic process whereby endings imply beginnings and, as is the case of Dante 
and Joyce, readers must undergo a symbolic death before they can be transformed into 
writers. 

The first chapter of Part I, “The Dante Panel,” is titled “Charting the Course of the 
Embryo.” Focusing on Purgatorio 25, Frazer argues that this canto, despite being one of 
the least discussed of the Commedia, is of fundamental importance to the dynamics of 
initiation. Through the words of the poet Statius, the canto elaborates an important 
discourse on the embryo and on artistic genesis by describing the embryo as a plant that 
is transformed into an animal form, but can become a child only after the encounter with 
God in the womb. However, since the word for child that Dante uses is “fante,” a noun 
which is etymologically related to “speaker,” a network of associations is established 


535 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


between writing and procreation. Fraser further argues for the significance of this 
network by way of a comparison between Purgatorio 25 and Paradiso 33, where the 
pilgrim journeys to Heaven, which, like the womb, is a watery space leading to an 
encounter with God. Further confirmation of the associations between the discourse on 
the embryo and literary initiation are found, for Frazer, in the fact that in Paradiso Dante, 
while expressing the difficulty of relating his mystical experience, recalls the encounter 
with God in the womb before completing his transformation from pilgrim to poet or from 
reader to writer. 

Fraser’s second chapter, “Poetics of Initiation,” focuses on the ritual of death and 
rebirth through the womb that she locates at the beginning and ending of Purgatorio as 
well as in cantos 30 and 33 of Paradiso. Fraser contends that in the first canto of 
Purgatorio the pilgrim must travel through the womb of Hell while in the last canto a 
plunge into a baptismal font is necessary to ascend to Heaven. Fraser further argues that, 
in these stages, Dante makes extensive use of the plant and animal imagery of the 
discourse of the embryo that was voiced by Statius. This imagery is also present in 
Paradiso 30 and especially in Paradiso 33, where Dante, upon his encounter with God, 
dies and is reborn at once. 

In the third chapter, “The Siren Song,” Fraser addresses the dangers of literary 
initiation by focusing on the shades of Ulysses and Virgil who, albeit in a different 
manner, are literal and symbolic representations of a failed or negative baptism of sort. 
While Ulysses drowns because he sails past the divinely set limits of the pillars of 
Hercules, Virgil’s failed baptism occurs because the pagan poet cannot achieve a 
Christian rebirth by passing through the gateway of Christian faith and, quite tellingly, 
will be placed in Limbo where are the souls of infants who died before baptism. In 
subsequent section of this chapter, Fraser further explores the elements that are common 
to the figures of Ulysses and Virgil, including their roles of mentors, leaders, guides as 
well as the associations that they share with Siren figures. Fraser concludes her chapter 
by focusing at length on Dante’s abandonment of Virgil for Beatrice. This moment is, to 
her, representative of the shift from the father tongue (or learned Latin) to the mother 
tongue (or the vernacular). In Dante’s choice of the mother tongue Fraser also locates a 
return to the prelapsarian state of the womb before the fall. 

In the last chapter of this panel, “Write of Passage,” Fraser discusses the many 
allusions to Virgil as a mother figure that also populate the Commedia. However, Fraser 
argues that Virgil is a seductive and limited maternal symbol. She does so by revisiting 
the biography of Virgil’s life written by Suetonius with which Dante was familiar. In 
Suetonius’ work, Virgil is portrayed as a poet mainly concerned with his reputation and 
skills as revealed by his request that his epic poem be burned because it lacked revisions. 
Suetonius’ portrayal of Virgil finds, for Fraser, confirmation in /nferno 1, where Dante 
pays homage to Virgil’s earthly conception of poetry by associating Virgil’s poetry with 
the beauty that brings honor and fame to the individual. In addition, this portrayal is also 
suggested in the encounters between Virgil and the poets Sordello and Statius (from 
Purgatorio 7 and Purgatorio 21 respectively), who worship the epic poet at the exclusion 
of God. However, in the course of his journey, Dante has undergone a fundamental 
transformation and, by the time he reaches Beatrice, he abandons Virgil’s earthly 
concerns by endorsing a vision of poetry as a transcendental endeavor. By so doing, he 
frees himself from the influence of the limited mother figure that Virgil represents. 


536 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Part II, “The Joyce Panel,” begins with a chapter titled “Charting the Course of the 
Embryo.” Since Joyce, Fraser argues, treats initiation in a manner that is analogous to 
that of Dante, she begins by examining the references to /nferno 26 and Purgatorio 25 
that are contained in Joyce’s Portrait. Fraser locates a number of examples of Dantesque 
imagery, including the discourse on the embryo, the references to water, and the theme of 
rebirth. She then proceeds to trace the intricate web of intertextual allusions to Dante that 
populate Joyce’s Ulysses. She examines the chapter “Oxen of the Sun” and argues that 
Joyce explores embryonic development not only in literary but also in physical and erotic 
terms. Later on, she traces the analogies between the figure of Dante’s Virgil and that of 
Joyce’s Leopold Bloom. The chapter concludes with a discussion of Finnegans Wake, 
where Fraser locates powerful images of the womb as points of origin and return. 

The second chapter, “Ravishing Persephone,” addresses the image of the mother as 
both nurturing and menacing through close readings of the chapters “Circe,” 
“Telemachus,” “Proteus,” and “Penelope” from Ulysses. Fraser also discusses at length 
the myth of Demeter and Persephone that is an integral part of the “Circe” chapter of 
Ulysses. In this reworking of the classical myth, Fraser locates one more instance of the 
ritual of death and rebirth that characterizes Joyce’s writing of literary initiation from 
Dubliners to the Wake. 

The third chapter, “Intertextual Sirens,” addresses the threat to the creative writer 
represented by the Sirens who, as examples of false counselors like Dante’s Ulysses and, 
partially, Virgil, defer the change of readers into poets and writers. Among the Siren 
figures taken under consideration by Fraser is the character of Buck Mulligan from 
Ulysses, as well as more metaphoric sirens, such as the stifling influence of education, the 
dogmatism of the Church, and the paralyzing weight of literary predecessors. 

The last chapter, “Portrait in 3-D,” focuses on the intertextual allusions, present in 
Joyce’s Ulysses, to four paintings of the pre-Raphaelite Dante Gabriel Rossetti: The 
Girlhood of Mary Virgin, The Annunciation, Dante’s Dream at the Time of Death of 
Beatrice, and Beata Beatrix. Fraser contends that Joyce’s use of painting fulfills his 
ambition of authoring a text that would have the same status of books in medieval times. 
More importantly, Joyce revisits Rossetti’s feminine and floral symbolism to reveal 
woman’s role in the birthing of sign. By so doing, Joyce’s ends the silence of woman by 
transforming her into a writer. This change finds support in the final episode of Ulysses, 
where the image of Molly Bloom coincides with the creative womb of the imagination. 

Fraser’s book ends with a very short conclusion, where she comments that the 
initiations of readers into writers articulated in works by Dante and Joyce unfolds outside 
the texts as well, since so many readers have also become authors, as the rich 
bibliography elicited by their works indicates. 

As I have previously mentioned, Fraser’s book represents an original contribution to 
intertextual critical approaches. Her analyses provide some insightful readings, especially 
of Dante’s work. However, this volume is marred by a disregard for historical contexts 
and a tendency to repeat well-established conclusions on Joyce’s mode of writing. 


Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


537 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Riccardo Fubini. Humanism and Secularization from Petrarch to Valla. Durham: 
Duke UP, 2003. Pp. 306. 

This long awaited English version of Umanesimo e secolarizzazione da Petrarca a Valla 
(Roma: 1990) is the result of several years of collaboration between the translators (more 
than one, even though the work has been finalized by Martha King) and the author, a 
distinguished professor of Renaissance History at the University of Florence. Riccardo 
Fubini acknowledges the input of the various people involved in the project, and most of 
all Ronald G. Witt. Witt and Fubini both share the “lesson of the intellectual movement 
that old German scholars defined as ‘Historismus,’” whose major exponent in the USA 
has been Hans Baron. Fubini adheres to this school, with an important caveat: “The 
scholarly tradition from which my Renaissance studies derive (here I testify for myself 
only) is concerned with content rather than form, with ideas rather than erudition, with 
moral issues rather than literary virtuosity. I do not know how many people will agree 
with me on this point. I suspect that all together we would have difficulty in winning a 
presidential election, albeit a presidential election at the RSA only. Let these humanistic 
essays, in their more diffusive English edition, be dedicated to all the people who will 
share with me such an honorable minority” (viii). 

The five essays contained in the volume are far from being interesting only for the 
happy few. The first one — “Consciousness of the Latin Language among Humanists. 
Did the Romans speak Latin?” — is a broad overview of the vexed linguistic issues from 
Dante to Valla, progressing towards the “independence [of language] from the normative 
categories of grammar and rhetoric of the scholastic tradition” (6). Although this is the 
most “formal” of all the chapters, it shows the method of Fubini, which is a careful 
diachronic investigation of both the “vertical ties connecting a given text to its classical 
sources” and the “horizontal ties linking contemporary texts” (2). By combining these 
two kinds of textual ties, the author hints at a subtly polemical way of understanding the 
wide concept of humanism. Instead of considering the “mere difference of opinion 
among disciplines and methods of teaching” in an abstract and synchronic frame, he tries 
to see each individual humanist in his specific political and ideological context. The silent 
target of this systematic polemic is Paul Oskar Kristeller and his somewhat neutral or 
neutering approach to the studia humanitatis. Fubini, in an elegant manner, pays a self- 
revealing tribute to his adversary: “P. O. Kristeller, among others, has observed that 
every scholar, however great his adherence to objectivity, cannot help but bring with him 
some of his own preferences. It is not my task to judge my own objectivity; nevertheless, 
by concerning myself with an author [Poggio] surely polemical and militant, yet fighting 
for an ideal of independence, colloquial attitude, and tolerance, I take pride in having 
assumed the defense of a good, indeed, an excellent cause” (8). 

The second essay, “Humanistic Intentions and Patristic References. Some Thoughts 
on the Moral Writings of the Humanists,” gives many examples of the subversive 
techniques used by Renaissance intellectuals to develop their new ethics through a new 
philological and philosophical rhetoric. Essays 3 and 4 — “Poggio Bracciolini and San 
Bernardino. The Themes and Motives of a Polemic” and “The Theater of the World in 
the Moral and Historical Thought of Poggio Bracciolini’” — both provide fascinating 
close readings of the genesis of two major dialogues by Poggio, De avaritia and De 
varietate fortunae. But there is much more to them. In a short review it is just worth 
mentioning that Fubini’s prose has a very peculiar digressive quality, that is sometimes 





538 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


difficult to grasp in English (hence the laborious process of translation). On the other 
hand, his style is always highly rewarding for the patient reader. 

The last essay — “An Analysis of Lorenzo Valla’s De Voluptate. His Sojourn in 
Pavia and the Composition of the Dialogue” — can be considered a masterpiece in the 
critical genre of contextualizing a text. Fubini offers a dazzling interpretation of the 
Vallian dialogue in its different redactions, taking into account the many complicated 
elements that transformed it into De vero bono, “the more dissimulating and at the same 
time more ambitious” (144) title the work would retain in the end. 

In conclusion, this learned, witty and provocative book is extremely rich and 
instructive for anybody who has an interest in Renaissance thought, and makes us wish 
that also some other of Fubini's voluminous studies will soon become available in 
English. 

Marcello Simonetta, Wesleyan University 


Jeryldene M. Wood, ed. The Cambridge Companion to Piero della Francesca. 
Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2002. xvi + 268 pp. + 29 b/w pls. 

“One of the worst things that can happen to a man is for him to work and study hard in 
order to benefit others and make his own name and then be prevented by sickness, or 
perhaps death itself, from finally completing what he has begun. All too often he leaves 
behind him works that are nearly finished or that are shaping well, only to have them 
usurped by presumptuous donkeys trying to dress themselves up in the noble skin of a 
lion.” Precisely this, according to Giorgio Vasari, was the destiny of Piero della 
Francesca. Vasari’s outrage over the hijacking of Piero della Francesca’s theoretical 
treatises by his pupil, Luca Pacioli, led him to plot the artist’s biography as a trajectory of 
loss: the loss of his reputation as a mathematician, the destruction of many of his finest 
paintings, and most cruelly, in his last years, the loss of his eyesight. 

Five centuries later, scholars are still working to clarify the historical record of 
Piero’s life and accomplishments. This volume contributes to that effort by examining his 
theoretical writings as well as his surviving paintings, and reconsidering his importance 
in both the history of art and the history of science. It is a collection of ten mostly new 
essays (with the exception of Marilyn Lavin’s article on the London Nativity, already 
twice published) by established and emerging scholars in several distinct disciplines. The 
essays exemplify a broad range of approaches and perspectives toward the artist’s work 
and testify to what the editor calls “the active state of Piero studies” (12). Two 
complementary essays on the artist’s mathematical treatises illustrate their importance in 
separate contexts. Margaret Daly Davis discusses their value to architects and designers 
of intarsia, while in a far more detailed and technical discussion, J.V. Field examines 
Piero’s place in the development of Renaissance mathematics and optics. 

The core of the book consists of a series of four essays on Piero’s religious 
paintings. The editor’s own essay on the Legend of the True Cross at Arezzo explores the 
political context of the cycle’s commission by the friars of San Francesco. Wood suggests 
a rationale for the patrons’ choice of this subject in the absence of a related relic or titular 
dedication, arguing that the cycle served (by analogy) to celebrate the neglected figure of 
Beato Benedetto Sinigardi, a thirteenth-century Aretine friar interred in the church. Thus, 
Piero’s frescoes both revived a local tradition and dramatized a larger peninsular concern: 


539 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


the reunification of the Christian church and the battle against Islamic territorial 
expansion. 

Diane Cole Ahl similarly relates the commission of Piero’s Misericordia Polyptych 
to the specific local circumstances of both the town of Sansepolcro and the confraternity 
of the Misericordia. She interprets the altarpiece as a reflection of the distinctive sacred 
and civic culture of Sansepolcro, which resulted from its possession of a set of highly 
revered Passion relics and consequent importance as a site of pilgrimage. Her account of 
the mission of the confraternity and the nature of its devotions is both informative and 
useful. She convincingly illustrates the extent to which a fifteenth-century painting may 
be regarded as “the repository and record of innumerable social relationships” (28). 

But the most enlightening essay in this section is Timothy Verdon’s broader 
discussion of “The Spiritual World of Piero’s Art.” From a theological perpective, he 
illuminates the significance of three works: Jerome in the Desert (Venice, Accademia), 
the Misericordia Altarpiece (Sansepolcro), and the Baptism of Christ (London, National 
Gallery). Verdon argues that these three works are “typical of three related but distinct 
‘environments’ of Quattrocento religious and cultural experience” and that “these 
contexts of use are legible in the works themselves or what we know of them” (32). 
Verdon describes the function and world for which each picture was made: respectively, 
the private piety of cultivated laymen, corporate or confraternal devotion, and monastic 
contemplative prayer. In each case he elucidates a wealth of references that would 
plausibly have been understood by the patron(s): a network of scriptural and patristic 
references in the St. Jerome, specific eucharistic and liturgical allusions in the altarpiece, 
and an even broader range of symbolic meanings in the Baptism. 

Verdon’s perspective is an important corrective to the formal analysis that has 
dominated the critical tradition of Piero della Francesca since the nineteenth century 
(Berenson, Clark, etc.). He argues that Renaissance art is diminished and distorted if we 
look at it in abstract or merely visual terms. The Christ in Piero’s Resurrection, he insists, 
is not the archaic god famously invoked by Kenneth Clark (“a country god [...] 
worshipped ever since man first knew that seed is not dead in the winter earth’), but a 
specifically Christian savior portrayed through a complex but legible iconography that 
reflects the larger system of Christian belief. Verdon writes with eloquence and 
conviction of the need to recover an understanding of that spiritual world. 

On Piero’s secular paintings, two excellent chapters are contributed by Joanna 
Woods-Marsden and Philip Jacks. Woods-Marsden analyzes Piero’s role as portraitist for 
two rival Quattrocento princes: Sigismondo Malatesta of Rimini and Federico da 
Montefeltro of Urbino. She shows how each patron, in collaboration with the artist, 
exploited the emerging genre of autonomous portraiture in fashioning his persona as 
ruler. Although she mistakenly cites a source in the Aeneid for the sapphic stanza on the 
reverse of Federico’s portrait (229n26), the author convincingly demonstrates the 
political valences of these paintings. Of particular interest are her remarks on the portrait 
of Battista Sforza in the “other half’ of the Montefeltro diptych. She shows how the 
female portrait inverts the premises of its male counterpart by mythologizing not the 
active virtues but the subject’s conformity to traditional female models of modesty and 
reticence. In the paired Latin inscriptions, “Federico is praised for his great deeds and 
Battista is also praised for his great deeds” (111). Battista’s is a negative triumph; against 
the evidence of the historical record, it portrays her in a passive pose, with downcast 
eyes. In fact she served as regent during Federico’s frequent absences from court (he 


540 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


mandated her full power to rule the state from the age of fifteen). Woods-Marsden 
speculates that “Piero fashioned an identity for Battista with which she herself could have 
concurred” (112). In any case this was a posthumous portrait, so she had little chance to 
object. 

Philip Jacks discusses the three idealized cityscapes in Urbino, Baltimore, and 
Berlin that have variously been attributed to Piero della Francesca, Francesco di Giorgio 
Martini, and Luciano da Laurana. Although he sets aside the issue of authorship, he does 
address the possible function of these works, apparently so anomalous in Renaissance 
painting. He rejects the theory that they were created for theatrical productions, but 
suggests a relationship with contemporary architectural theory and intarsia design. 

The book’s limitations become most clear in reading Jane Bridgeman’s essay on 
costume in the work of Piero della Francesca. Throughout the volume, the only 
illustrations provided are in black and white, often in confoundingly small format. 
Bridgeman’s discussion depends entirely on a level of detail that is not legible in the 
figures. What is the point of including an illustration of Francesco Botticini’s Assumption 
of the Virgin (London, National Gallery) when the figure discussed in such detail (“his 
scarlet rolled hood, suspended by its liripipe, hangs over his shoulder; its gorget [foggia] 
hangs from the circular roundlet resting on his back’’) is seven sixteenths of an inch tall, 
and blurry at that? It is generally possible to follow Bridgeman’s argument (like the other 
chapters) by continuous cross-reference to full-color illustrations of Piero’s work 
published elsewhere; but this strategy makes the book problematic for the general reader. 
Only a specialist will have sufficient recall of the paintings to appreciate these 
illustrations solely as a mnemonic device. 

The book ends with a brief account of Piero’s twentieth-century legacy by Anne 
Barriault. The author imagines assembling a “virtual Parnassus” of modern writers and 
painters influenced by Piero’s work. She relies heavily on earlier and more systematic 
treatments of the theme (especially in art), and avoids some of the most interesting issues 
that can surface in such genealogies. For example, she seems unaware of the levels of 
irony implicit in David Hockney’s citations of Piero in works such as “Looking at 
Pictures on a Screen.” Hockney’s references to the Renaissance artist are an ambivalent 
homage: both a defense of the figurative tradition and a playful critique of his own 
subjection to such models. By showing the man in a white linen suit gravely studying a 
Degas reproduction taped to a screen alongside others by Vermeer, Van Gogh, and Piero 
della Francesca, Hockney mirrors the viewer’s own experience of looking at “art” and 
suggests that this tradition of illusionistic painting is in its own way deceptive or 
fraudulent. Hockney is a magpie, borrowing from a giddy range of sources in 
complicated ways. To include him in a “virtual Parnassus” of Piero’s admirers is much 
less interesting than to consider the devious games he plays to subvert him (another 
example is the central mirror in the mock Trinity of “My Parents,” where Hockney erased 
his self-portrait and inserted a postcard of Piero’s Baptism). 

Gjertrud Schnackenberg stages a different kind of encounter with Piero’s work in 
her wonderfully moving poem on the Resurrection (A Gilded Lapse of Time, 1992). She 
imagines an aged Piero, blinded by cataracts, led to stand in front of his painting. He 
reaches out to touch the surface of the fresco, remembering the “ever-smaller pinprick of 
light” that had closed with the narrowing field of his vision, so like the pinpricks of dust 
that he had used to trace the original image. Piero’s work, Barriault concludes, continues 


541 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


to fascinate modern poets and others who seek order and meaning in what Michael 
Ondaatje memorably called “the great maps of art.” 
Carolyn Springer, Stanford University 


The Cambridge Companion to Masaccio. Ed. Diane Cole Ahl. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 2002. Pp. xiv+280. 

This volume, edited, prefaced, and with an essay by Diane Cole Ahl, is an outstanding 
contribution to the celebrations for the 600" anniversary of Masaccio’s birth celebrated in 
2001. It brings together eleven essays from contributors whose expertise stems from a 
variety of disciplines: history, theology, and art history. The different approaches result in 
an organic ensemble, aiming at integrating Masaccio’s achievements into the milieu from 
which he emerged. One can identify at least three recurrent themes and preoccupations 
among the eleven contributors: the fundamental question of Masaccio’s training and 
formation, the artistic collaboration between Masaccio and Masolino, and the 
reassessment of early fifteenth-century Florentine culture within which Masaccio’s 
achievements must be contextualised. It is, therefore, befitting that the collection opens 
with an historian’s essay, “Masaccio’s Florence in Perspective. Crisis and Discipline in a 
Medieval Society,” in which Anthony Molho explores the political and economic realities 
of early Renaissance Florence, the effects that the Black Death had in the late 1340s, the 
general state of the economy and of society at large — the inequitably distributed wealth 
and the widespread poverty —, the sense of instability caused by the ever-present threat 
of war; according to Molho, the realities of early Renaissance Florence reveal the state of 
a society far from Hans Baron’s optimistic portrayal of a “republican” Florence. Gary M. 
Radke’s “Masaccio’s City: Urbanism, Architecture, and Sculpture in Early Fifteenth- 
Century Florence” underlines the essentially “medieval” nature of Florentine architecture 
and sculpture which Masaccio would have beheld, drawing examples and terms of 
comparison from the works of Ghiberti, Donatello, and Nanni di Banco. 

In “Painting in Masaccio’s Florence,” Ellen Callmann reconstructs Masaccio’s 
initial exposure to painting, possibly by his grandfather, a maker of boxes in his native 
San Giovanni Valdarno. Callmann argues that Masaccio, after a period of apprenticeship 
with Lorenzo da Bicci, was introduced to the friars of the Carmine for whom Masaccio 
was to produce his best works. As with Radke, Callmann is interested in pointing out 
what Masaccio might have drawn from tradition and from the works of artists active in 
the 1420s, and how these two strands contributed to a blend which was to become 
Masaccio’s personal style. Of paramount importance is, therefore, the task undertaken by 
Perri Lee Roberts, who studies in her essay, “Collaboration in Early Renaissance Art: 
The Case of Masaccio and Masolino,” Masaccio’s partnership with Masolino (1383/4- 
c.1436), and makes an important contribution to the difficult task of separating their 
hands in the works in which both were engaged. In their study, “Masaccio: Technique in 
Context,” Roberto Bellucci and Cecilia Frosinini shed further light on Masaccio’s origins 
and early artistic formation by hypothesising that Masaccio might have studied with a 
manuscript illuminator before turning to the technical features which, in their opinion, 
help to separate Masaccio from Masolino. With greater focus on specific works — the 
Cascia di Reggello Altarpiece, Pisa Altarpiece, Sant’Anna Metterza, Santa Maria 
Maggiore Altarpiece — Dillian Gordon shares Callmann’s opinion, in her essay “The 
Altarpieces of Masaccio,” in proposing Bicci da Lorenzo as the one responsible for 


542 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Masaccio’s training. The Santa Maria Maggiore Altarpiece represents the last work by 
Masaccio, who died without completing it in Rome in 1427. 

Masaccio’s masterpiece in the Brancati Chapel is the focus of Diane Cole Ahls’s 
essay, “Masaccio in the Brancati Chapel.” Ahl situates the chapel within the devotional, 
artistic, and patronal ambience of Santa Maria del Carmine, discussing the church’s 
history and the commission of the frescoes, probably completed by Filippino Lippi. 
Masaccio’s Trinity, painted in Santa Maria Novella in 1424, is the subject of the 
theological study, “Masaccio’s Trinity: Theological, Social and Civic Meanings,” by 
Timothy Verdon, who, after tracing the iconography and interpretive history of the 
theme, illustrates the meanings of the Trinity in Catholic thought. In J.V. Field’s 
“Masaccio and Perspective in Italy in Fifteenth Century,” we read how Masaccio was the 
first to use single-point perspective and to appreciate also the way in which other artists, 
such as Donatello, Uccello, Piero della Francesca, and Mantegna, made use of 
perspective. In the final essay of this collection, “Masaccio’s Legacy,” Francis Ames- 
Lewis examines the artist’s stature in Florentine painting during his lifetime when, in 
fact, Masaccio was overshadowed by Gentile da Fabriano. Thanks to Vasari’s vita, 
Masaccio received more exposure which consecrated him to posterity. Ames-Lewis then 
turns to Saint Peter Baptising the Neophytes, the drawing for the Brancati chapel 
attributed to Masaccio, in order to examine the artist’s representation of the human figure 
draped and nude, and how he may have influenced other artists: Maso Finiguerra, 
Domenico Ghirlandaio, Filippino Lippi, Raphael, and Michelangelo. 

Eighty illustrations highlight the points made in the critical appraisal of the eleven 
contributors and draw the reader’s attention to Masaccio’s works. A very exhaustive set 
of notes, followed by a selected bibliography and a very useful index of names, makes of 
this collection a truly invaluable “companion” to Masaccio. The editor’s opening words 
provide the best possible invitation to revisit the works of an artist who, despite a very 
short life, can be heralded as a creator of a new style of art: “His contributions to 
Renaissance art include the solemn portrayal of narrative, the mathematical construction 
of space, the consistent illumination of form, and the depiction of figures possessing 
extraordinary physical and psychological realism” (1). 

Bruno Ferraro, University of Auckland 


Charles Burroughs. The Italian Renaissance Palace Facade. Structures of Authority, 
Surfaces of Sense. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2002. Pp. XIX+289. 

In this book Charles Burroughs tracks the presence of architectural fagade in Renaissance 
Italy by examining first the elements derived from antiquity, and in particular the 
Vitruvian heritage, and secondly the way in which the fagade lends itself to a polisemic 
reading within the social and historical milieu under scrutiny. The survey of fagades in 
some major Italian cities — Rome, Florence, Urbino, and Vicenza — and the various 
hermeneutic tools displayed in exposing the significance of the structure and its 
interaction with the surrounding context make this book a complete and thorough guide 
to the subject matter. The exhaustive intent in the scholarly approach is evidenced by the 
detailed subheadings listed in the /ndex and their appropriately arranged grouping into 
nine chapters. Though each section addresses a particular element, the sense of 
fragmentation is avoided by the continuous crisscrossing of patterns and motifs, which 
succeed in molding the various components into an organic unit. 


543 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


While impossible to do justice to each section of the book, it is appropriate to focus 
on what can be seen as its major thesis: “[...] the significance of fagade architecture in 
the elaboration of formal and logical schemata of profound importance in the self- 
representation and self-comprehension of the elites in the Renaissance” (10). However, it 
is interesting to note that Burroughs does not disregard domestic architecture, hence 
forcing the elitist element which holds centre stage in the book to make room for the 
description of more humble abodes. Such is the case of the house described in the section 
“Domestic Architecture and Boccaccian Drama,” where Burroughs chooses the story of 
Lisabetta and her three brothers in Decameron IV 5 (immortalised by Keats with his 
“Isabella and the Pot of Basil”), and contextualises it within the mercantile milieu of the 
Decameron. The symbolism attached to the pot of basil containing the head of Lisabetta’s 
lover, Lorenzo, and its strategic positioning on the window of the house in which she 
lives were not lost on Pier Paolo Pasolini, who opens his film version of the story with 
this precise camera shot. Burroughs underlines the contrast between the mercantile 
milieu, in which Lisabetta’s story takes place, and the courtly one, which provides the 
setting for some of the other tragic stories of Day IV, and sees in the afflictions that 
characterise these stories and the major frame within which they are cast — plague- 
infested Florence in 1348 — a call for “the regeneration or at least the reform of society” 
(46). According to Burroughs — and this notion is of paramount importance for those 
interested in the study of literature and the relationship with visual arts — Boccaccio’s 
conceptualization of space and its significance within the narration find their place in 
Trecento culture by “providing an author primarily interested in narration and character 
with largely familiar frameworks for a wide range of actions and interactions.” (43) 

The literary Trecento connection, which started with Boccaccio’s Decameron, 
becomes the link for the following section in which Burroughs takes up Leonardo Bruni’s 
Latin translation of the Griselda story (Decameron X 10), and moves the discussion on to 
the facade in Trecento Florence, where the mercantile world of the Decameron finds its 
full expression: from the fagade of Lisabetta’s house with the pot of basil concealing, 
according to Burroughs, the tragedy within, to the impressive houses of Florence which 
“have become mere empty containers, fagades masking the space of death and emptiness 
behind” (49). The section “Between Opacity and Rhetoric” illustrates how Florence 
became a primary site for the emergence of the facade as a defining feature of the urban 
scene in Renaissance Italy, and it is once more to literature that one can turn in order to 
capture the establishment of a “new” architecture, that of Brunelleschi, whose ideas, 
along with the famous novella of the “Grasso legnaiuolo,” are to be found in Antonio 
Manetti’s biography of the architect. With copious examples and descriptions of 
Florentine buildings, Burroughs proceeds into the fifteenth century and examines the 
emergence of the piano nobile as an area dedicated to reception and representation, 
surmounting a service floor. Though Brunelleschi was no facade architect, despite his 
original contribution to the debate of the times, his involvement in literary groups 
engaged in discussions on literature and art (such as the Burchiello group, which 
comprised also a great Dante scholar, Giovanni da Prato) made him a point of reference 
to all Florence. Manetti introduces, in a passage of his biography, a remarkable 
pronouncement attributed to Brunelleschi during the artist’s visit to Rome: “[...] the idea 
of a fundamental ordine di membri e ossa (arrangement of limbs and bones), supposedly 
discerned by Brunelleschi in the remains of ancient architecture. The metaphor serves to 
accentuate a technical distinction between supporting and reinforcing elements (regimenti 


544 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


e fortezze) and ornameniti. It also recalls Alberti’s recourse to a similar organic metaphor, 
though with a crucial expansion to encompass flesh and skin that is completely missing in 
the bibliography [...]” (91-92). Hence, chapter 5, which Burroughs dedicates to Alberti, 
is entitled “The Bones of Grammar and the Rhetoric of Flesh,” referring to the habitual 
analogy in late medieval and Renaissance architecture by virtue of which architecture 
may resemble language in terms of structure (that is, grammar) or effect (rhetoric). It is in 
this chapter that Burroughs illustrates Alberti’s attempt to recreate a classical facade, as 
borne out by the Rucellai Loggia in Florence. 

With the Palazzo Ducale of Urbino, Burroughs introduces the example of antithetic 
front and rear facades, which was not uncommon in the Renaissance, but he keeps the 
presentation of Castiglione’s // cortegiano and its discussions on courtly behaviour for a 
later section in which the scene of the court and the space of the city are examined (165- 
66). Before going to Rome and Vicenza, Burroughs returns to Florence to explore the 
motifs of perspective with Brunelleschi’s panels and the anonymous late fifteenth-century 
painting of the Savonarola execution, typifying the Renaissance frontal viewpoint. 
Furthermore, he highlights the interaction between buildings and the statues placed in 
front of them: the most outstanding example is Michelangelo’s David in front of the 
Palazzo della Signoria, which sets “a new standard for the sculptural exploitation of the 
affective sources of the human body” (130). 

The work of Bramante in Rome, the way in which his fagade design encapsulates 
Alberti’s famous metaphor (the house is a small city), and an overview of papal influence 
in Roman architecture, exemplified by Alexander VI and the establishment of the Via 
Alessandrina (though other references are made also to Bramante and Raffaello), form 
the subject matter for chapters seven and eight. In the concluding chapter of this book, 
distinguished by a set of very comprehensive footnotes and an extremely rich and 
updated bibliography, Burroughs starts from Rome and the Villa d’Este at Tivoli (an 
example of contrast between nature and art) to end with the Villa Rotonda at Vicenza, 
where Palladio married so effectively architecture to nature. 

Bruno Ferraro, University of Auckland 


Giovanni Andrea Gilio, Dialogo del letterato cortigiano, a cura di Paolo Cherchi, con 
una nota linguistica di Francesco Bruni, Longo, Ravenna, 2002. Pp. 182. 

Questo importante lavoro di Giovanni Andrea Gilio, Dialogo del letterato cortigiano, é il 
quinto volume del “Susan and Donald Mazzoni Seminar” fondato e diretto da Paolo 
Cherchi presso la University of Chicago. I volumi precedenti erano di natura diversa, 
dedicati a ricerche tematiche con contributi individuali di studenti partecipanti al 
seminario. In questo caso si tratta di un’edizione e quindi il contributo dei membri del 
seminario é collettivo ed omogeneo, rifluito in forma anonima nel commento al testo. 
Senza dubbio é sempre un esercizio eccellente quello di editare un testo, di saper stabilire 
criteri testuali riguardanti gli interventi su un’opera antica, di saper identificare 
personaggi, allusioni storiche, citazioni e fonti di un testo carico di cultura come poteva 
esserlo un testo rinascimentale, e fare il tutto sotto la direzione sicura di un esperto in 
questo tipo di ricerca qual ¢ senza dubbio Paolo Cherchi: anche se il contributo di ogni 
studente sara stato minimo, l’esperienza di aver seguito un lavoro del genere sara stata 
unica per studenti abituati a fare tutt’altro tipo di ricerca, specialmente oggi che la ricerca 
erudita sembra un po’ screditata, ma che pur rimane fondamentale nel nostro campo. 


545 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Veniamo ora al testo. L’autore, un canonico di Fano, di buona cultura ma alquanto 
schivo e lontano dalle grandi correnti culturali del tempo, ha avuto negli ultimi anni un 
piccolo rilancio grazie alla ristampa, curata da Paola Barocchi, di un suo dialogo sull’arte 
(Due dialogi, Firenze, Studio per Edizioni Scelte, 1986 [1564]); alla ristampa fatta in 
Germania della sua Topica poetica (Monaco di Baviera, W. Fink, 1970); e ad un saggio 
di Carlo Ossola (Dal “Cortegiano” all’“Uomo di mondo”: storia di un libro e di un 
modello sociale, Torino, Einaudi, 1987) che dedica al Gilio non poche pagine. L’idea di 
riportare alla luce uno scrittore “minore” € sempre un fatto positivo, specialmente oggi 
che vediamo uno spostarsi del fuoco critico dalla letteratura alla cultura: i minori ci fanno 
capire meglio i problemi del tempo perché li presentano spesso come materia prima non 
ancora elaborata, perché le loro opere ci fanno toccare quel tessuto connettivo che lega la 
cultura, e perché spesso sono anche autori di lettura piacevole. Nel caso specifico di 
Giovanni Andrea Gilio, la sua posizione di “minore” é modificata anche dal suo essere 
“provinciale”, dall’appartenere cioé ad un ambiente periferico dove perd non tutto 
costituisce uno svantaggio: anzi la periferia pud offrire un ottimo punto di vista per 
osservare cose che nei centri culturali a volte passano inosservate, e le periferie 
consentono un margine di liberta, nei riguardi delle mode culturali, che nei centri si stenta 
ad avere. I] caso di Gilio é esemplare in questo senso, e l’introduzione di Cherchi lo mette 
chiaramente in evidenza. Nella periferia provinciale si guarda alla citta come al mondo 
delle opportunita sociali e culturali; ma per farne uso bisogna essere preparati. Ecco qui 
la matrice del dialogo, che é una specie di manuale didattico per preparare il giovane 
della provincia a vivere a corte. Ora, |’idea che in provincia si ha del cortigiano attorno 
agli anni 60 — e proprio negli anni in cui si sta per concludere il Concilio di Trento — é 
quella che sopravvive dal modello di Castiglione, cioé un cortigiano “umanista” o 
letterato. Ma l’idea che in provincia si ha della corte non é quella del gran signore, dei 
grandi mecenati degli umanisti, ma la corte del prelato, dove la funzione dell’uomo di 
corte non é quella di consigliare il signore, ma quella di servirlo e di informarlo su cose 
che pud non sapere, e che per lo pit riguardano la cultura di tipo umanistico (storia, 
letteratura, diritto, ecc.). La corte per eccellenza diventa quella del cardinale che risiede a 
Roma, il centro del Mondo. II letterato, insomma, diventa cortigiano, e offre il suo sapere 
al servizio del signore. Il fenomeno centra appieno quello che in effetti stava succedendo, 
dato che la figura del cortigiano veniva trasformandosi in quella del segretario, figura 
destinata a diventare dominante lungo tutto l’arco del Seicento. I] dialogo si svolge a 
Roma e si capisce che la corte modello sia quella di un alto prelato. 

Il dialogo di Gilio — il titolo riportato nel frontespizio non é quello originale, 
lunghissimo e descrittivo, ma é quello che cifra perfettamente il tema del libro — offre 
una tessera importantissima nella storia della letteratura sul cortigiano perché é un 
documento di una trasformazione culturale. L’introduzione di Cherchi mette a fuoco 
questa importanza. Allo stesso tempo, il saggio introduttivo pone in luce i pregi e i difetti 
del dialogo. Pregi sono quelli di una cultura di prima mano — dato molto positivo in 
quell’ eta di polimati di riuso — e di una freschezza di aneddoti e di letture che sembrano 
privilegiare la letteratura dell’eta argentea e della tarda latinita, con incursioni nella 
letteratura medievale. Pregevoli sono anche le discussioni sulla lingua in un periodo in 
cui tali argomenti erano di grande attualita. Il difetto sembra essere una mescidanza 
stilistica che alterna sostenutezza a momenti di scadimento, pur con interessanti apporti 
lessicali. Difetti sembrano anche una certa gravitas e un’ombra di uggia, che nasce in 
parte dall’estrazione ecclesiastica dell’autore e per giunta in clima controriformista: il 


546 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


cortigiano di Gilio non tocca i temi dell’amore, in cui la sprezzatura diventa cautela, il 
segreto non é accompagnato dall’orgoglio di condividerlo con il signore, ma dal timore di 
poter fare un errore nel rivelarlo, cid che gli costerebbe il lavoro. 

Nel complesso pero il dialogo ¢ chiaramente leggibile: ed a leggerlo con maggior 
profitto aiuta la suddivisione in capitoletti per argomento aggiunta dai curatori, nonché la 
lucida nota linguistica di Francesco Bruni che mostra quanto materiale si possa trovare in 
testi per lungo tempo dimenticati. Correda il volume — che si chiude con un rigoroso 
Indice dei nomi — un ricco apparato filologico di note erudite e informative di vario 
carattere (e.g., storico, filosofico, mitologico) a pié di pagina, tese a chiarire 1 
numerosissimi riferimenti e le allusioni che il testo contiene, con una esaustiva presenza 
di rimandi e fitte voci bibliografiche indubbiamente preziosa per gli studiosi che si 
avventurano in questo fertile campo di ricerca: ecco in verita un altro motivo per cui 
bisogna essere grati agli editori che hanno recuperato questo interessante autore. Anche 
l’editore Longo — /ast but not least — con una stampa spaziosa e con una buona qualita 
di carta, nonché con la cura di tanti altri aspetti editoriali, contribuisce degnamente a 
questo bel recupero. 

Sergio Corsi, Loyola University Chicago 


Marco Santoro, Libri Edizioni Biblioteche tra Cinque e Seicento. Con un percorso 
bibliografico, Vecchiarelli Editore, Manziana (Roma), 2002. Pp. 221. 

In libri di questo genere, cioé costituiti da una raccolta di saggi pubblicati in varie sedi e 
in tempi diversi, la prefazione € molto importante perché di solito in essa 1l’autore 
giustifica il bisogno della raccolta e ci dice cosa le conferisce unita nonostante 
l’apparente natura eterogenea dei saggi. E la prefazione ¢ molto importante perché 
l’autore conosce il suo lavoro per causas e ci pud dire meglio di qualsiasi altro il perché e 
il come della raccolta, anche se pud succedere che le causae si rivelino dei pretesti. 
Santoro non fa eccezione a questa consuetudine, e ci dice che il libro é unitario pur nella 
sua disgregazione. Sembra un paradosso ma lo smontiamo non appena cominciamo a 
leggere i primi saggi perché capiamo subito che |’autore vuol presentarci, attraverso 
sondaggi e ricerche diverse, la grande ricchezza e varieta del campo bibliografico, della 
scienza del libro e dei tipi di ricerca che le danno oggi una grande vitalita. E una 
ricchezza affascinante e del tutto inaspettata da parte di chi si occupa di letteratura senza 
pensare affatto alla vita del libro, dalla sua concezione alla sua produzione alla sua 
circolazione e alla sua collocazione in biblioteca: per i non addetti ai lavori la scienza 
bibliografica é semplicemente quella che produce bibliografie e banche di dati; e un libro 
che riesce a demolire questa credenza merita certo di essere segnalato e soprattutto letto. 

I primi due saggi (“A proposito della storia del libro”, e “Storia delle biblioteche o 
della biblioteca”) ci introducono in questo mondo per la maggior parte di noi nuovo. 
Sono due saggi “teorici” in cui Santoro prende in esame varie proposte moderne sul come 
debba muoversi la disciplina, quali debbano essere i suoi interessi e confini, quali i suoi 
strumenti e strategie di lavoro. E vediamo cosi profilarsi chiara la nozione della 
differenza fra testo e libro; capiamo quale importanza abbia il sistema della produzione 
— quindi l’intervento dell’editore il cui ruolo non é solo quello di stampare ma di 
scegliere le opere per i suoi torchi e di curarne la stampa e il mercato; il sistema della 
distribuzione — quindi il ruolo del libraio; l’utenza — quindi il ruolo del lettore, del 
bibliotecario e del collezionista ... insomma un universo di fasi e di tappe attraverso le 


547 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


quali i testi diventano libri e in quanto tali entrano nel tessuto sociale con il loro 
contributo ideologico o comunque sociale. E Santoro ricostruisce questo quadro da pari 
suo, intanto con una formidabile conoscenza della letteratura sull’argomento (soprattutto 
francese, inglese, americana ma anche italiana), quindi con un’avvincente lucidita di 
esposizione e con una glossa continua di riflessioni originali che fanno di lui non solo un 
uditore attento dei discorsi altrui ma un protagonista, e fra i pit ammirati, della 
discussione in corso al livello internazionale. 

Il saggio seguente, “Appunti su caratteristiche e funzioni del paratesto nel libro 
‘antico”, € forse il pil stimolante della raccolta perché fa vedere come la nozione di 
“paratesto” usata normalmente per fini estetici possa essere anche una chiave per entrare 
in un problema storico-culturale rilevantissimo. Santoro privilegia la lettera dedicatoria 
fra le altre forme di paratesto (frontespizi, indici, componimenti poetici dedicatori, 
illustrazioni ecc.), e mostra come presto, dopo i primi decenni del Cinquecento, diventi 
un “genere”, un paratesto permanente, per cosi dire, legato ai problemi di sovvenzionare 
la stampa del libro e di diffonderlo. Santoro studia questo genere nelle varianti della 
dedica dell’autore e/o dell’editore; lo studia comparativamente nei diversi stati italiani; e 
lo studia diacronicamente per illustrarne la funzione e la sua cogenza storica. E un saggio 
che fa capire come viva il libro e soprattutto come venga mutando nel tempo la figura del 
letterato che non é pill l’umanista 0 Il’uomo di corte, ma un tipo nuovo di lavoratore che 
dedica l’opera a un signore non per spirito di cortigianeria ma per motivi economici. 

Gli altri saggi procedono in questo lavoro concreto di vedere il libro nella storia e 
nel complesso intreccio di elementi culturali; a volte si tratta di un libro singolo (ad 
esempio Del tabacco detta herba santa con le sue meravigliose virtu, attribuito a 
Giovanni Flavio Bruno ma che Santoro dimostra essere una traduzione/plagio dall’opera 
di Monardes sui semplici, e il plagio é nascosto dietro paratesti; oppure un esempio di 
“Riciclaggio editoriale. Il caso de La bilancia istorica, politica e giuridica di Andrea 
Giuseppe Gizzi, in cui si dimostra che il numero delle edizioni non significa 
necessariamente successo editoriale, anzi pud indicare proprio il contrario); altre volte 
l’autore ricostruisce un aspetto della fortuna del teatro a Napoli basandosi sulla 
produzione editoriale (“Le edizioni sceniche napoletane fra Cinque e Seicento”); altre 
volte dell’editoria in generale nel periodo barocco, con l’avvento di nuovi grandi centri di 
produzione libraria che mettono in penombra Venezia, con la pratica delle commitenze 
ufficiali e pubbliche che incidono perfino sui caratteri della stampa, e via dicendo 
(“Caratteristiche e valenze dell’editoria barocca”); altre volte riguardano il catalogo di 
una mostra (“La biblioteca medica”), che presenta considerazioni importanti sul catalogo 
di una mostra di opere di medicina presenti nella Casanatense; altre, ancora, |’autore 
analizza le nozioni di “antico” e di “raro” e la funzione che le descrizioni bibliografiche 
fatte nei cataloghi degli antiquari possono avere nel conservare il gusto del libro e di 
perpetuare questo oggetto di cui da tempo si predice l’estinzione. 

Chiude l’opera un “Percorso bibliografico” concepito come un supplemento 
informativo per chi voglia continuare ad informarsi sulla “storia del libro”: idea 
eccellente che non solo alleggerisce di note bibliografiche i saggi, ma completa questa 
raccolta che nonostante il rigore e l’originalita di molte parti vuole avere anche una certa 
qualita didattica, vuole essere un invito ad amare il libro e a conoscerlo nelle molte 
ramificazioni della sua vita. 

Ed é un invito che accogliamo volentieri, grazie anche alla maniera con cui viene 
porto: con una calibrata mescolanza di grande erudizione e sapere bibliografico, di analisi 


548 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


statistiche e di storia culturale, di conoscenze arcane di testi rarissimi, e di intelligenza 
sempre vigile e pronta a mettere a fuoco problemi interessanti anche quando a prima vista 
non sembra che ce ne siano. Purtroppo lo spazio non ci ha consentito di presentare in 
dettaglio l’originalita di alcune idee (ad esempio il ruolo della filologia testuale nella 
ricerca bibligrafica, o l’uso di alcune nozioni antropologiche nel considerare la 
distribuzione del libro) né di elogiare dovutamente la perfezione costanie della ricerca 
bibliografica; comunque valga a dispensarci l’autorevolezza di cui Marco Santoro gode 
nel suo campo di studi. Lodevole € anche la tempestivita della pubblicazione perché, 
come |’autore dice nella sua prefazione e conferma poi con i saggi, la biblioteconomia 
entra di pieno nel campo della comunicazione e si aggiorna continuamente ai progressi di 
quella scienza che sembra non avere confini, per cui é ora che il pubblico dei lettori e dei 
letterati in genere ne prenda atto perché grazie ad essa si possono risolvere non pochi 
problemi culturali. 

Paolo Cherchi, Universita di Chicago 


Francesco Cotticelli, Anne Goodrich Heck, and Thomas F. Heck, trans. and eds. The 
Commedia dell’Arte in Naples: A Bilingual Edition of the 176 Casamarciano 
Scenarios | La Commedia dell’arte a Napoli: Edizione Bilingue dei 176 Scenari 
Casamarciano. 2 vols. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press, 2001. 

This bilingual edition of the complete Casamarciano Scenarios is groundbreaking on 
several counts, and should become a key source text not only for both English and Italian 
commedia dell’arte scholars and practitioners, but also for theatre and cultural historians 
interested in 17"-century dramatic performance in western continental Europe. In 
particular, this extensive collection of commedia dell’arte scenarios offers a detailed 
record of improvised performance as it reached its peak of popularity in Naples during 
the second half of the 17" century. Nancy D’Antuono, commenting on its merits in her 
“Foreword,” notes that it “easily doubles the commedia dell’arte source material 
available to students and scholars, by making available to an international readership the 
most substantial manuscript collection of scenarios extant, that of D. Annibale Sersale, 
Conte di Casamarciano. Containing 183 scenari in two volumes, of which 176 can be 
deciphered, this zibaldone was originally the property of Benedetto Croce. The 
manuscript now resides in the Biblioteca Nazionale di Napoli, shelfmarked XI.AA.41 
(vol. I) and 40 (vol. II)” (xv). 

While parts of the collection had been published in Italian before, this first complete 
edition is the result of ten years of study by Dr. Francesco Cotticelli, who, in addition to 
editing and transcribing the Italian text presented in volume 2, also provides an 
introduction containing two critical chapters: a philological description of the 
manuscripts with explanations of linguistic and redactional features, and an extensive 
current bibliography of scholarly works on the commedia dell’arte. The parallel English 
edition, volume | of the set, prepared in collaboration with English translators, Dr. 
Thomas Heck, and Anne Goodrich Heck, offers translations of all Cotticelli’s 176 
transcriptions. Not an exact duplicate of the Italian volume, it includes a brief 
introduction explaining the rationale behind the linguistic and editorial choices made by 
the translators in an effort to provide accessible versions of Cotticelli’s more scholarly 
Italian transcriptions. It also offers English abstracts of Cotticelli’s critical chapters for 
those who are unable to read Italian, as well as a “Table of Concordances” (5-11) that 


549 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


brings together the findings of earlier concordances by both Italian and English scholars. 
An invaluable compilation, it directs readers to extant manuscript collections where 
variants of each of the 178 scenarios in the Casamarciano manuscripts can be found. 
While it does not pretend to be complete, it allows readers to see at a glance the number 
of parallel versions of commedia dell’arte scenarios in circulation across Italy, France, 
and Spain. In addition to cross-referencing the scenarios to other Italian models, it links 
them up to works by such distinguished playwrights as Moliére, Lope de Vega, and 
Calderén. If the two most notable examples are “I] Comvitato di pietra” (“The Stone 
Guest”) (ii/47), a source for the plays and operas about Don Giovanni, and “Nerone 
imperadore” (Emperor Nero) (ii/68), a version of Monteverdi’s L’incoronazione di 
Poppea, there are many others of great interest. 

Beyond making such a large number of new scenarios available for study and 
performance, the collection is a valuable historical record of the developments that the 
commedia dell'arte underwent in Italy in the second half of the 17'" century. Since there 
are far less data about the commedia dell’arte in this later period, the Casamarciano 
scenarios help to answer questions about the kinds of theatrical activities taking place ina 
major Italian city which played host to a steady stream of travelling troupes. Moreover, 
because they provide a consecutive record of actors’ performances over several decades, 
they serve as valuable resources for tracking changes that were taking place in the staging 
of the scenarios in question. Indeed, Cotticelli’s two critical chapters make use of these 
data to correct certain misconceptions and offer some new insights into late 17"-century 
Italian improvised theatrical practices. 

In “Annibale Sersale e le scene del suo tempo a Napoli” (vol. 2, 14-21) (“Annibale 
Sersale and the Theatrical Climate in Naples of His Day” vol. 1, 19-20), Cotticelli 
remarks on the surprising lack of information linking Annibale Sersale, Count of 
Casmarciano (1659-1712) to his life-long theatre project. However, even without 
knowing Sersale’s exact role in the theatre of his day, Cotticelli surmises that in order to 
transcribe the performances, Sersale must have been in attendance at the actual stagings 
of the plays, and hence must have been familiar with the many travelling troupes who 
were constantly appearing in the Vicolo della Lava, the narrow street where public 
performances were held. If nothing else, the monumental size of this zibaldone and the 
range of sources and genres represented in it indicate that theatre activity in 17"-century 
Naples was varied and highly experimental. Given the scarcity of evidence of the 
activities of arte troupes in this period, Cotticelli proposes that the Sersale collection may 
be the most interesting source we possess for the second half of the 17" century. Despite 
the lack of information about where these scripts were performed and by whom, he 
regards them as valuable registers of the changing social and political conditions that 
followed the political upheavals of the mid century. Thus he points to the prevalence of 
Neapolitan characters and dialect throughout the collection to indicate how vibrant the 
local culture was, while at the same time acknowledging that the strong presence of 
Spanish models indicates the reassertion of Spanish authority over the city. 

Sersale’s monumental collection also gives us enough literary evidence to make it 
possible to document the evolution that the commedia dell’arte underwent as it 
diversified its range from physically based farces to include a wider variety of more 
complex sophisticated comedies. Despite the strange absence of evidence of any 
commentary by Sersale, Cotticelli is convinced that he must have been aware of the kinds 
of innovations he was recording since they are so evident in the manuscripts. In 


550 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


“Proposte per una lettera e interpretazione degli scenari Casamarciano” (vol. 2, 3-13) 
(“Suggestions for Reading and Interpreting the Casamarciano Scenarios” vol. 1, 13-18 ), 
he offers some interesting observations about the kinds of information the individual 
scenarios give concerning their often complex relationships to actual theatrical events 
they may be recording. One striking feature of the codices is the marked difference in the 
ways the scenarios are laid out in Sersale’s two volumes. Since each one has advantages, 
it is not possible to draw any conclusions as to their relative dramatic strengths in 
capturing what is actually happening on stage. However, in investigating the challenges 
the actors faced in documenting the art of improvisation, he points to the possible 
functions of a scenario as notating not only the original nucleus of a theatrical event, but 
also providing “a record of successful stage performance, and a point of departure for 
future revivals. Equally distant from both the author’s scripted play and the actor’s 
performance, a scenario can also be moved chronologically in either direction from its 
corresponding performance, coming into being before or after the fact” (trans. Anne 
Heck, vol 1, 15). 

By looking at variations in scenarios with similar Pulcinella plots, Cotticelli 
demonstrates that the ways in which the actions are recorded indicate that the actors were 
relying on a shared knowledge of previous performances. He also uses the central 
importance of the Pulcinella mask and the range of roles he performs to dispute Kathleen 
Lea’s well-known contention that the “popularity of Pulcinella hastened the 
disintegration of the commedia dell’arte by increasing the output of ill-constructed 
farces” (Lea, Italian Popular Comedy 1, 102). Drawing on a knowledge of Pulcinella’s 
appearance in almost every scenario, he identifies him as a unifying, energizing force, 
whose “adaptability and timelessness” (vol. 1, 15) worked in the exact opposite way. He 
further proposes that rather than destroying the purity of the neoclassical and Spanish 
Golden-age plays in which he appeared, his very contemporaneity gave a whole new life 
to their tired plots. 

In trying to estimate just what the written scenarios capture of the nature of this 
ephemeral actors’ theatre, Cotticelli weighs up the often contradictory evidence they give 
us of the very diverse kinds of stylistic and verbal processes used to create the 
performances. If the most important question is to discover what the balance was 
“between the creative freedom of the actor and the logic imposed by the plot” (vol. 1, 
17), the answer is by no means straightforward since, as these scenarios confirm, so many 
performance conventions became formulaic over time. At the same time, notations of the 
sequence of stage actions being performed became more and more complex, an 
indication that the actors involved were operating at a very sophisticated, self-reflexive 
level. This evidence leads Cotticelli to suggest that “‘[t]he actors’ own fidelity to technical 
virtuosity ends up undermining the survival of a true theatre of improvisation” (vol. 1, 
18). Thus, in making such a laborious effort to document this virtuosity on paper, Sersale, 
ironically, may have been confirming the decline of truly improvised comedy. At the 
same time as his collection records the growing obsession on the part of the actors to 
write down their stage business, such records actually serve as a tacit admission that the 
actors themselves no longer believed that it was possible to improvise a scenario in a 
fresh new way each time it was performed. 

In conclusion, I believe that this collection is of enormous value for many different 
kinds of general and scholarly readers and theatre practitioners. Commedia dell’arte 
scholars working in English and Italian have the great benefit of a bilingual edition 


551 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


available to them for immediate reference and future investigation. The Commedia 
dell’Arte in Naples: A Bilingual Edition of the 176 Casmarciano Scenarios / La 
Commedia dell’Arte a Napoli: Edizione Bilingue dei 176 Scenario Casmarciano is an 
essential and immensely valuable addition to present-day commedia dell’arte studies, and 
by extension, to the study of the early modern European theatre it influenced so greatly. 


Rosalind Kerr, University of Alberta 


Armando Maggi. Satan’s Rhetoric: A Study of Renaissance Demonology. Chicago: U 
of Chicago P, 2001. Pp 255. 

This book represents a distinguished and theoretically sophisticated contribution to the 
relatively short bibliography of scholarly works on European demonological literature. 
Since the 1970s, witch trials have been the focus of many important studies, but learned 
Latin treatises on the powers of demons have attracted less attention. The crucial 
exception is Stuart Clark’s Thinking with Demons (1996), the indispensable starting place 
for any serious reading on this recondite topic. Conceived as a corrective to the idea that 
witch and demon beliefs existed only (or mainly) at the lowest social levels, Clark’s 
magisterial work demonstrates the pervasive character of “demonic thinking” in 
European high culture of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, especially in the areas 
of science, history, religion and politics. 

As a literary scholar, Armando Maggi takes a more textually focused and exegetical 
approach to traditional demonologies, presenting densely argued, close readings of five 
selected authors from sixteenth-century Italy, as well as one from Portugal. He describes 
his own work as “a linguistic and rhetorical analysis” of the dialogue between demons 
and humans “as it was hypothesized and investigated during the Renaissance” (1). The 
demonological treatises under investigation are to be understood as “grammar books,” 
dissecting the strange idioms through which fallen angels communicate their subversive, 
destructive messages to vulnerable humans (2). Maggi explains his approach as a “form 
of intellectual and linguistic translation,” an effort “to make sense of [...] an obsolete and 
‘insane’ intellectual system” (3). While recognizing differences of emphasis among 
authors, he is not primarily concerned with the specific contexts in which individual 
treatises were written; rather he treats demonological literature as a single discourse, one 
still spoken, at least in some quarters, up to the present day. 

His first chapter, “The Devil’s Perverted Syllogism,” is a highly original linguistic 
analysis of Sylvester Prierio’s De strigimagarum daemonunque mirandis (Rome, 1521). 
Maggi sees this treatise as unique in the demonological literature for its focus on “the 
dynamics of the devil’s intellectual practice [...] how the devils think and manifest their 
thoughts” (42). Since they have no bodies and no voices, angels have no language of their 
own; essentially they are messengers acting “as instruments of others’ discourses” (5). In 
the case of the good angels, this situation presents no problem, since they reliably 
transmit divine messages. But fallen angels are “permanently excluded from meaning” 
(5), and despite their intelligence, they are parasitically dependent on others’ idioms. 
“Astute semioticians of the world’s language” (23), these “speakers of the mind” inhabit 
the lower air, where they observe human actions, and in their intellectualized way, form 
incomplete “perverted syllogisms” in men’s minds, infecting them with an unspoken, 
destructive language of “chaos and incertitude” (6). Like the book as a whole, this 


552 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


chapter is informed but not dominated by twentieth-century theories of language (Pierce, 
Searle, de Certeau, Lacan). As it turns out, these theorists really do help to explicate the 
highly abstract, unembodied discourse of demons and angels. Maggi’s work demonstrates 
the utility of linguistic and literary theory in decoding the most abstruse of pre-modern 
discourses, showing that the sometimes difficult hermeneutics of the “linguistic turn” can 
facilitate the daunting task of deciphering these earlier arcane texts. 

Since the “devil needs a human speaker [...] to complete his perverted syllogism” 
(54), language provides the opening for demonic appropriation of human desires. A 
previously unstudied treatise by the Portuguese Inquisitor Manuel do Valle de Moura, De 
incantationibus seu ensalmis (Lisbon, 1620) describes the subversion of ceremonial 
religious speech to magical ends by users of incantations, called ensalmi in the 
vernacular. Defined as “‘benedictions or imprecations composed of a certain formula of 
words, primarily holy ones” (55), they were used primarily for healing, but also to obtain 
worldly goods. The problem with such invocations was the uncertainty of their addressee; 
even when putatively directed to God, requests could easily be taken up by a demonic 
listener. The earliest ensalmi were pagan; those of Jews, sodomites, witches, and heretics 
continued to give human voice to “Satan’s rhetoric” (84). 

In a jurisdictional assertion typical of Counter Reformation thinking, only the 
official prayers of the Catholic Church were guaranteed to be immune to demonic 
usurpation. The most powerful ecclesiastical weapon against demons was exorcism, 
which underwent a significant revival in sixteenth-century Italy. Chapter 3 focuses on a 
collection of Italian exorcist treatises, the Thesaurus Exorcismorum (Cologne, 1608), 
including those by Zacharia Visconti, Valerio Polidori and Girolamo Menghi (who was 
not an Inquisitor, as Maggi asserts, but a Franciscan exorcist). Each of these treatises 
functioned as a vade mecum, or manual (97) for arresting the spread of demonic rhetoric 
through the more powerful voice of the institutional Church, speaking through a licensed 
exorcist reading from an approved script. 

Chapter 4 examines “The Discourse of the Mind in the Probation of St. Maria 
Maddalena de’ Pazzi,” a Florentine mystic and the subject of an important earlier book 
by the author. This amazing text records Maria’s five-year melancholia, a condition 
which left her peculiarly vulnerable to demonic assaults. Maggi’s analysis of how 
demons used the melancholic temper to insert themselves into the human mind is 
chilling, and may seem oddly familiar to any modern depressive. His final chapter takes 
on a little known illustrated treatise by the sixteenth-century physician and astrologer, 
Girolamo Cardano: Metoposcopia, or “the analysis of signs marked on the human face” 
(183). Demons could read these signs, using them to pick out likely targets for 
possession, obsession, or temptation. 

In his introduction, Maggi accurately describes his study as “founded on a 
‘credulous’ suspension of disbelief’ (3), one that abstains from “superimposing our 
‘enlightened’ beliefs” on early modern demonological thought. But how can “the 
criminal conduct of the Catholic Church” (3) be discerned, if not from a retrospective, 
modern perspective? Maggi’s conclusion deliberately rejects any _historicist 
discontinuities, presenting a Gay Pride rally in Rome during the Jubilee Year of 2000 as 
part of a transhistorical confrontation between a repressive orthodoxy and “its victims, all 
those who, throughout the centuries and in different ways, were persecuted and 
murdered” (231) by representatives of the Church. This originally Catholic, demonized 
view of sodomy has, in his view, been taken up by the otherwise presumptively heretical 


553 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


forces of the American Christian right (234). Many readers not drawn to the anachronistic 
aspects of this impassioned conclusion will nonetheless find themselves enlightened and 
engaged by Maggi’s skillful, even brilliant, reconstruction of how demons and 
demonologists thought and spoke about each other in Counter Reformation Europe. 

Mary R. O'Neil, University of Washington 


Giulia Bigolina. Urania. A cura di Valeria Finucci. Roma: Bulzoni Editore, 2002. 
“Pp.196. 

Una ventina d’anni fa Carlo Ginzburg osservava in un suo celebre saggio (“Spie: radici di 
un paradigma indiziario”) che l’opera dello storico é paragonabile a quella del detective e 
a quella dello storico dell’arte positivista che pazientemente mettono insieme tracce e 
frammenti di quello che stanno cercando sulla base di un “paradigma indiziario”. Valeria 
Finucci — studiosa di letteratura del Cinquecento che nei Ringraziamenti si autodefinisce 
scherzosamente “Sherlock Holmes della famiglia Bigolini” (11) — € partita dal 
paradigma, sicuramente pil che plausibile, che dovesse esistere una narrativa in prosa 
scritta da una donna nel Cinquecento e in seguito a pazientissime ricerche in archivi e 
biblioteche italiane ed europee I’ha riportata alla luce e pubblicata. 

Urania nella quale si contiene |’amore d’una giovine di tal nome é il primo e per ora 
Punico romanzo in prosa composto da una donna nel Cinquecento, Giulia Bigolina; fu 
scritto a Padova, dove |l’autrice visse, presumibilmente intorno al 1556-58. Giulia 
Bigolina fu anche autrice di una lunga novella, Giulia Camposanpiero e Tesibaldo 
Vitaliani, arrivata fino a noi, e sicuramente di un’altra novella andata invece perduta. 
Appartenente ad una famiglia della nobilta padovana, Giulia Bigolina visse in un periodo 
intenso e difficile della storia d’Italia: i suoi dati biografici vengono collocati — con un 
grande lavoro di confronto e ricostruzione di documenti d’archivio, repertori storici, 
indici e altro — intorno al 1518 per la nascita e al 1569 per la morte. Come Valeria 
Finucci fa giustamente notare, le donne spesso non comparivano negli alberi genealogici 
o nei libri di famiglia e infatti i loro nomi cominciano ad apparire solo dopo il Concilio di 
Trento in censimenti religiosi quali gli status animarum. Ma Giulia Bigolina, quasi ignota 
per i documenti civili del suo tempo, é invece conosciuta nei circoli letterari della sua 
citta, corrisponde brevemente con Pietro Aretino che le manda i saluti del comune amico 
Tiziano Vecellio, é citata con ammirazione in un libro dello storico Bernardino 
Scardeone, membro dell’importante Accademia degli Infiammati, ¢ amica di Sperone 
Speroni e, una ventina d’anni dopo la sua morte, viene menzionata in un libro di Ercole 
Filogenio insieme a Vittoria Colonna, Veronica Gambara, Laura Battiferra e Laura 
Terracina. Non solo: la scrittrice appare come interlocutrice in un dialogo dal titolo A 
ragionar d’amore scritto intorne al 1550, il cui manoscritto é stato rintracciato da Paul 
Oskar Kristeller in una biblioteca francese. Se si pud gia parlare di un canone al 
femminile in formazione verso la fine del Cinquecento, certamente Giulia Bigolina vi 
apparteneva. 

I secoli successivi — fino all’Ottocento — continuano ad annoverare Giulia 
Bigolina all’interno di repertori delle donne letterate e di raccolte di novelle significative 
che vanno da Boccaccio alla fine del Settecento. L’autrice ha un posto tra nomi quali 
quelli di Bandello, Bargagli ed Erizzo. Melchiorre Cesarotti, alla fine del Settecento, la 
loda per le sue novelle “leggiadre” e per lo stile. E degno di nota osservare che la fama di 
Giulia Bigolina non fu aiutata dalla stampa. I] romanzo non fu mai pubblicato — Valeria 


554 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Finucci fa notare che la censura post-tridentina non avrebbe permesso la stampa di un 
romanzo la cui protagonista, travestita da uomo, se ne va in giro da sola —, e la sua 
novella fu finalmente edita solo nel 1794 all’interno di un’opera dal titolo Notizia de’ 
novellieri italiani. Valeria Finucci — novella Sherlock Holmes — ha ritrovato I’ originale 
di Urania nella Biblioteca Trivulziana di Milano; il manoscritto probabilmente é 
Vautografo inviato dalla scrittrice a Bartolomeo Salvatico, il giureconsulto cui l’opera é 
dedicata. Finora se ne conosceva solo una copia settecentesca depositata nella Biblioteca 
Apostolica Vaticana e menzionata nell’/ter Italicum di Kristeller. Nel Novecento 
’interesse per Giulia Bigolina é¢ pressoché inesistente: la sua esclusione ad opera di critici 
quali Giambattista Salinari é significativa del trattamento riservato a molte donne 
scrittrici. Nel 1955 e poi nel 1976 Salinari ristampa la raccolta Notizia de’ novellieri 
italiani di Anton Maria Borromeo della fine del 700 — una collezione lodata e citata che 
conteneva novelle inedite di Giovanni Morlini, Pietro Fortini, Luigi Alamanni e altri, pit 
la novella della Bigolina —, e tranquillamente decide di escludere dalla sua versione 
lunica rappresentante femminile. 

Urania & un affascinante pastiche. La protagonista é una poetessa che decide di 
divenire pellegrina per amore; dopo essere stata abbandonata dal suo amante perché non 
abbastanza bella, indossa abiti maschili, assume il nome e |’identita del suo amante Fabio 
e gira I’Italia a cavallo alla ricerca di una risposta al suo dilemma amoroso. In questo 
viaggio incontra uomini e donne, viene creduta uomo da tutti e suscita l’amore della 
giovane vedova Emilia, che la segue sperando di realizzare un’unione con lei. I] romanzo 
€ complicato da una serie di intrecci paralleli — di cui ¢ meglio non parlare per lasciare 
un po’ di suspense ai lettori — fino al lieto fine che giunge dopo un’ultima difficile 
prova. Come Valeria Finucci fa notare nell’importante analisi (44-63) degli svariati 
generi letterari coinvolti nella costruzione del romanzo, il modello principale é |’ Elegia di 
Madonna Fiammetta di Boccaccio. Tuttavia Giulia Bigolina mostra di conoscere anche i 
romanzi cavallereschi, !a letteratura pastorale, probabilmente la commedia G/ ‘ingannati, 
(dove la protagonista Lelia si veste da uomo e assume il nome di Fabio), nonché la vasta 
trattatistica sull’eccellenza delle donne e |’amore, molto feconda in area veneta. Tutti 
questi generi letterari, pit altri che sarebbe lungo menzionare, si amalgamano 
armoniosamente nella narrativa. Anche se — per quel che sappiamo — Giulia Bigolina 
non scrisse poesia d’amore, potremmo includerla tra le poetesse cinquecentesche che Ann 
Rosalind Jones ha simpateticamente definito come “bricoleuses” (The Currency of Eros: 
Women’s Love Lyric in Europe, 1540-1620, Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1990) in 
riferimento alla loro abilita di servirsi vantaggiosamente nelle loro opere di diversi generi 
€ motivi stilistici. 

La narrazione delle avventure di una poetessa in abiti maschili consente all’ autrice 
di esplorare liberamente e radicalmente alcuni temi che cominciavano a circolare proprio 
in quel periodo riguardo al ruolo femminile nel rapporto tra i sessi e nella societa. Alla 
protagonista sta particolarmente a cuore il tema dell’educazione femminile che viene 
esaminato nei due incontri agli inizi del romanzo, quello con il gruppo di donne e quello 
con il gruppo di uomini. Le gentildonne che Urania/Fabio incontra prima di tutto 
dichiarano di voler esercitarsi nelle scienze e nelle lettere, esercizio in cui sono impedite 
dagli uomini, e solo poi di volersi scegliere un amante di proprio gradimento. L’incontro 
successivo con i gentiluomini, che vogliono sapere il tenore della conversazione del 
giorno precedente, consente all’autrice — non dimentichiamo, creduta uomo — di 
entrare in una appassionata perorazione della causa femminile e del diritto 


555 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


all’educazione. Urania/Fabio suggerisce ai gentiluomini che incominciano il loro discorso 
spregiativo sulle donne prendendo ad esempio paradigmatico la figura di Elena di Troia, 
che dovrebbero invece “volgere” (120) l’ordine della storia e considerare Paris (Paride) 
responsabile di quegli avvenimenti. Forse Giulia Bigolina era a conoscenza 
dell’avvertimento finale di San Giovanni nell’Orlando furioso (“E se tu vuoi che °| ver 
non ti sia ascoso,/ tutta al contrario l’istoria converti:/ che i Greci rotti, e che Troia 
vittrice,/ e che Penelopea fu meretrice” 35:27). Di certo, giudicando complessivamente la 
sua opera, |’autrice non si limita ad una confutazione della supposta inferiorita femminile 
ma riconosce, in anticipo su Moderata Fonte, il diritto alla parita intellettuale e sociale. 

Verso la chiusura della sua rilevante introduzione al romanzo, Valeria Finucci 
avanza una proposta che pud dare inizio ad un nuovo paradigma, stavolta non indiziario: 
“Alla luce di quello che Bigolina fa in Urania, bisogna far risalire l’invenzione del 
trattato femminista a quaranta anni indietro e motivarlo non come il risultato di rigurgiti 
misogini [...] ma di una precisa agenda intellettuale e filosofica in un periodo in cui 
proliferavano testi sul ‘prender moglie’ e sul “governo della casa’” (58). L’invito dovra 
necessariamente essere preso in considerazione da tutti coloro che studiano le donne 
scrittrici nel Rinascimento, la querelle des femmes, la costruzione dell’identita femminile, 
ma anche la formazione del canone letterario e artistico nel Cinquecento, non solo in 
Italia ma anche in Europa. E, fortunatamente per tutti gli appassionati di cose italiane che 
non hanno familiarita con |’italiano del Cinquecento e per gli studenti, é attualmente in 
corso la traduzione in inglese del romanzo da parte di Valeria Finucci. 

In conclusione il volume Urania é una aggiunta considerevole a tutta quella serie di 
libri di mano femminile che negli ultimi vent’anni hanno consentito agli studiosi del 
Rinascimento di cominciare a rispondere almeno parzialmente all’ormai topico quesito: 
“Did women have a Renaissance?” 

Laura Giannetti Ruggiero, The Pennsylvania State University 


Janis Bell and Thomas Willette, eds. Art History in the Age of Bellori: Scholarship 
and Cultural Politics in Seventeenth-Century Rome. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 
2002. 

Giovan Pietro Bellori (1613-1696) occupied a central position in Roman cultural circles, 
both in the curia and elsewhere, from the early 1640s until his death. His writings had a 
crucial impact on the two fields that held his interest throughout his life: antiquarian 
studies and criticism of contemporary painting. Yet his name is nowadays barely 
recognized, outside specialists’ circles. One of the explicit goals for Bell and Willette’s 
collection is to bring Bellori’s writings and opinions back into scholarly discussion, 
especially by “bridging the gap that has arisen in the world of modern scholarship 
between Bellori’s antiquarian activities and his writings on contemporary art and 
criticism” (3). 

Recognizing that Bellori’s life and cultural role are mysterious to many potential 
readers, in the introduction Janis Bell provides an excellent overview of his life and 
scholarship (4-16); she then moves on to Bellori’s reception in the eighteenth century and 
beyond (16-52), thus offering a frame for (as well as explicit connections to) the eleven 
essays included in the collection. 

These fall under two headings: the first six are devoted to “Bellori and the Republic 
of Letters in Seventeenth-Century Rome,” the other five to his better-known book, Le vite 


556 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


de’ pittori, scultori, ed architetti moderni, first published in Rome in 1672. All rely 
strongly on visual as well as textual evidence, as befits contributions that, for the most 
part, were originally presented in 1996 at a conference organized by the Association for 
Textual Scholarship in Art History. 

Taken together, the essays in the first part (by Giovanna Perini, Louis Marchesano, 
Tomaso Montanari, Ingo Herklotz, Eugene Dwyer, and Hetty E. Joyce) describe Bellori’s 
career in Rome. He had arrived there a young prelate “of very modest origins” (56), and 
had to acquire a powerful employer if he wanted to succeed. This he did very well, 
ultimately ascending to the positions of “superintendent of antiquities to Popes Clement 
X (1670-1676) and Alexander VIII (1689-1691) [...] and antiquarian and custodian of 
medals to Queen Christina of Sweden” (2). To a different extent these six essays insist on 
Bellori’s antiquarian expertise and interests; they also effectively “expose the fallacy that 
Bellori was an old-fashioned antiquarian but an innovative art critic” (3), another stated 
goal for the collection. 

Out of the essays in the first part, Montanari’s “Bellori and Christina of Sweden” is 
an interesting and well-built exploration of how patronage unfolded in seventeenth- 
century Rome: there were many venues for it, some explicit and others implied, some 
linked to publications and others to bestowing positions, etc. While the essay helpfully 
conveys the complexity of the very term “patronage,” surprisingly (given the two 
characters involved) it pays no attention to gender dynamics. 

The second part of the collection is even more strongly text-based, as it concerns 
Bellori’s magnum opus, the Vite. In “The Allegorical Engravings in Bellori’s Lives,” 
Claire Pace and Bell link Bellori’s antiquarian expertise in medals and coins to the 
images that open each vita. While the essay is convincing and clear, it suffers a little from 
the inclusion of a great quantity of material. Martina Hansmann defends Bellori from the 
accusation of being a prescriptive, rather than a descriptive, writer in her exploration of 
his ekphrastic method in the Vite. Her contribution places Bellori within the context of 
his own and his contemporaries’ writing, and juxtaposes context and goals with Vasari’s. 
Anthony Colantuono reads the Vite paying special attention to the use of the term 
scherzo. He establishes a technical and a colloquial meaning for it, helpfully giving a 
broad context and linking terminological debates in literature with those occurring in 
writings on the visual arts. Janis Bell’s third contribution to the collection, “Bellori’s 
Analysis of colore in Domenichino’s Last Communion of St. Jerome,” clarifies that 
“colore is an integral part of seventeenth-century classicism” (276) rather than an 
aberration. Arguably the most purely art-historical piece in the collection, it suffers 
considerably from the fact that all paintings it considers are reproduced in the volume in 
black and white. Last, Thomas Willette’s “The Second Edition of Bellori’s Lives: Placing 
Luca Giordano in the Canon of Moderns” considers the role of Bellori’s Vite in later time 
by examining the contents of its second edition (Naples, 1728). He convincingly argues 
that the addition of Luca Giordano among Bellori’s exemplary lives constitutes the 
Neapolitan Bernardo “De Dominici’s first installment in the rewriting of the history of 
Kingdom of Naples for modern times, as a civil history rather than a history of rulers” 
(289). Willette’s essay simultaneously concludes the collection and opens its topic up to 
further exploration. 

As Bell acknowledges in the introduction, the collection’s long gestation pushed its 
publication past the massive Roman exhibit of 2000 devoted to L ‘idea del bello. Viaggio 
per Roma nel Seicento con Giovan Pietro Bellori. A two-volume catalogue by the same 


557 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


title was published that same year in Rome by De Luca, edited by Evelina Borea and 
Carlo Gasparri, but its contents are not reflected in the essays. The volume at hand is, 
nevertheless, valuable for its contributions as well as for newly available materials, 
appended to Perini’s, Montanari’s, and Dwyer’s essays (66-74, 117-26, 163-69). 

To varying degrees, the contributions included in this collection show an increased 
awareness of terminology on the part of art historians. In this light, the collection title and 
subtitle are particularly interesting: “art history” is juxtaposed to “scholarship and 
cultural politics.” The first phrase holds a patent appeal to one of this book’s core 
audiences; yet it has to be read alongside the second one so that the volume as a whole 
and most individual essays might be accurately described. That a volume on Bellori (long 
known primarily as the author of the discourse on “L’idea del pittore, dello scultore e 
dell’architetto” that Erwin Panofsky took as a point of departure for his crucial 1924 
essay) manages to destabilize well established terminology is a testament to how 
seriously and successfully these scholars have taken their commitment to textual studies, 
without leaving the pale of art history as a discipline. 

Maria Galli Stampino, University of Miami 


Rebecca Messbarger, The Century of Women: Representations of Women in 
Eighteenth-Century Italian Public Discourse. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 
2002. 

Rebecca Messbarger, in a wide-ranging, thoughtful book that critiques the traditional 
view of Italian illuminismo as generally more limited than that of northern Europe, 
reexamines the ways we think about eighteenth-century culture and clarifies Italy’s 
contribution to the European Enlightenment. In doing so, she focuses on the peninsula’s 
women — as students and intellectuals, as mothers and consumers — who during this 
period, enter the public arena as never before. 

Women’s central position remained a vexed one, however, in the context of the 
enlightenment’s ideology of utilitarian egalitarianism. This ethics of social utility 
underscored individual rights and social mobility, endorsing a meritocracy based on 
achievement rather than birth, but such ideals inadequately addressed practical 
considerations of race, class, and gender. While the i//uministi admitted that educating 
women better prepared them to be wives and mothers, they balked at the notion of female 
participation in the public sphere, believing that social utility required women to remain 
domestic. 

Acknowledging that for the vast majority of women, gender restrictions proved 
insurmountable, Messbarger explores the ideas of some women who achieved success as 
professors, writers, and translators in a world almost entirely dominated by men. Her 
Introduction points out that in eighteenth-century Italy, a surprisingly large group of 
women — primarily noble, gentry, and a/ta borghesia, to be sure — did experience that 
heady intellectual world. These women founded learned academies, earned university 
degrees, and became professors. The book provides a context for these achievements, 
discussing writings by and about women to reveal the ways people thought about gender, 
and to show how women responded to male constructions of femininity. 

Messbarger begins by focusing on a 1723 debate at Padua’s Academy of the 
Ricovrati, among the first European academic institutions to give women honorary, 
though largely symbolic, membership. Giovann Antonio Volpi stood opposed to the 


558 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


proposition that women be allowed to study the arts and sciences, an important question 
with more immediate practical implications than former debates over whether women 
should participate in the military or government. Moreover, the venue — after all, the 
Ricovrati boasted Galileo as a founding member — situated the debate in the context of 
enlightenment empiricism. The large number of women in the audience also challenged 
the masculinist discursive format. Still, the debate’s afterlife proved more significant than 
the event itself, as the 1729 publication of proceedings included a spirited critical 
response to Volpi by Aretafila Savini De’ Rossi. Rhetorically, Savini De’ Rossi’s strategy 
involved a “two-part proto-feminist offensive” of formal response and critical footnotes 
that privileged empirical experience over traditional thinking about women (42). Volpi’s 
indecisive responses to questions about the nature of femininity and women’s social 
functions enabled Savini De’ Rossi to use enlightenment ethics and an empirical 
methodology to argue for broadening women’s educational opportunities. 

After a dialogical analysis of the debate and the responses, Messbarger in the next 
chapter turns to the biology of sexual difference. Enlightenment scientists identified 
“two, perfectly differentiated, stable, and universal gender identities [...] substantially 
knowable and qualifiable,” challenging “the authority of Aristotle’s reigning theory of 
woman as a deficient man” (49-50). Beginning with Giovanni Bandiera, an Italian 
follower of the Cartesian Frangois Poullain de la Barre, who argued that “‘the mind has 
no sex,’” the chapter looks at contrasting views in an epistolary tract by Antonio Conti 
“recognized as a ‘summa of eighteenth-century misogyny’” (51). Employing a quasi- 
Newtonian analysis, he argues that the “blood and milk” related to a woman’s role in 
reproduction affect her physical strength and result in a “lethargic brain” responsible for 
“facile conversation” (60, 64). Petronio Ignazio Zecchini, an anatomist from Bologna, 
extended Conti’s theories, identifying the uterus as “the root cause of women’s erratic 
behavior [...] and their incapacity for concentrated thought,” concluding “that the female 
mind is not only sexed, it is supplanted by the womb” (67). Familiarity with 
enlightenment thinking about the science of gender proves useful for understanding the 
ways contemporaries considered social concerns. 

Returning to the question of female education, chapter three explores Diamante 
Medaglia Fiani’s writings, which urge women to study math and science. Medaglia Fiani 
promises men that educated women will make better wives and mothers, but significantly 
rejects educating women in the arts and poetry, which she believes exacerbate the 
stereotypical female tendency toward sentiment and imagination. Messbarger points out 
that the empirical bias of Medaglia Fiani’s pedagogy increases women’s independence, 
allowing them to produce their own knowledge of the world and of their places in it. 

Next, Messbarger explicates Carlo Sebastiano Franci’s essay “Defense of Women,” 
published anonymously in // Caffé. The article, in the enlightenment tradition, substitutes 
“the impartial touchstone of social utility for the unscientific moral precepts and social 
customs traditionally used to gauge women’s virtue,” thus establishing “a new egalitarian 
rationale for evaluating and enhancing women’s impact on the public good” (87). 
Thinking about female behavior in utilitarian terms, “Franci condemns conduct that 
jeopardizes the well-being of the modern state: wastefulness, indolence, and the 
mismanagement of the domestic sphere,” arguing that proper education could remedy this 
situation (94). Still, Franci fears women’s “growing publicness,” believing that they 
should retain their traditional private sphere roles and raising concerns about “women of 
all classes [...] straying [...] into the morally ambiguous public realms” (95, 96). 


559 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Such female containment remains porous, however, for Franci thinks that women 
would benefit from learning those skills and personality traits necessary for success in the 
commercial marketplace. These attributes would allow women to contribute in the 
domestic sphere as well as the public economy. Thus, Franci’s “Defense of Women” 
“oscillates ambivalently between an ‘objective’ ‘scientific’ reconceptualization of gender 
relations, and a reinscription of the conventional feminine ideal,’ viewing women as 
essentially different from, and therefore necessarily under the control of men (103). 
Importantly, though, Franci rethinks this “feminine ideal” in the context of utility and 
contemporary economic theory (103). 

The book’s final chapter brings all of these themes — gender construction, 
education, and the marketplace — together in a discussion of La donna galante ed 
erudita, a Venetian women’s magazine which appeared between 1786 and 1788. Three 
traits characterize the first Italian periodicals for women, which appear during the later 
half of the eighteenth-century: their focus on a female audience, their validation and 
commodification of particular notions of femininity, and their creation of a feminine 
discursive model. They differed from male-oriented enlightenment journals like // Caffe, 
which “engaged in a collective, egalitarian endeavour to know the truth in order to 
enhance the public good” (119). Seeing fashion as self-fashioning, the audience of Donna 
galante devoted itself “to self-promotion, purchasing power, and manipulation of one’s 
public self-image” (119). The Venetian periodical, which included fashion illustrations, 
advice on beauty and health, short fiction and poetry, differed from its European 
counterparts: it did not have advertisements and did have a female editor, Gioseffa 
Cornoldi Caminer. Even the name — The Gallant and Erudite Woman — transvalues 
traditionally masculine qualities to resist contemporary constructions of gender identity. 

Messbarger’s detailed scholarship, insightful readings, and useful historical context 
make this work a valuable contribution to Feminist, Italian, and Eighteenth-Century 
Studies. Forty pages of notes, including original Italian quotations, as well as fourteen 
pages of bibliography, constitute the text’s considerable scholarly apparatus. 

Arnold A. Schmidt, California State University, Stanislaus 


Alfredo Luzi (a cura di), Microcosmi leopardiani. Biografie, cultura, societa, 2 voll., 
Fossombrone: Metauro, 2001, 870 pp. 

Nella pletora delle iniziative editoriali che hanno accompagnato le celebrazioni per il 
bicentenario della nascita di Leopardi, ne segnaliamo una che appare animata da un 
interesse pit profondo della mera occasione celebrativa, ed appare quindi anche destinata 
a sopravviverle. Si tratta della raccolta degli atti del convegno “Microcosmi leopardiani”, 
tenutosi a Recanati nel dicembre del 1998, col quale il gruppo di lavoro guidato da 
Alfredo Luzi traeva il bilancio di meta percorso di un ampio lavoro di ricerca negli 
archivi e nelle biblioteche marchigiani, pubblici e privati, volto ad ampliare “la 
conoscenza del contesto storico e socio-culturale in cui era inserita la produzione 
leopardiana” (p. X XI). E ’importanza di questa pubblicazione sta proprio nel suo rendere 
conto non solo del convegno del 1998, ma di tutta I’attivita di ricerca documentaria svolta 
tra il 1997 e il 2000. Alla prima sezione (3-246), riservata agli interventi del convegno, 
segue infatti una seconda parte (249-410), volta a raccogliere le schede biografiche dei 
marchigiani (sia di nascita, come Ignazio Guerrieri, che volse in latino A//’Italia, Sopra il 
monumento di Dante e Ad Angelo Mai, sia d’adozione, come il tipografo Arcangelo 


560 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Sartori, che funse da mediatore tra Leopardi, Brighenti e Stella) con cui la famiglia 
Leopardi entrd in rapporto. La pubblicazione € completata da una terza sezione (413- 
870), edita in un tomo distinto, interamente dedicata a documenti riguardanti quegli stessi 
marchigiani, ovvero, in primo luogo, alle loro lettere, ma anche a frontespizi, contratti 
matrimoniali ed estratti da registri ecclesiastici ed inventari municipal. 

La sezione propriamente saggistica si apre con il panorama, delineato da Franco 
Foschi, dell’ambiente culturale recanatese primo-ottocentesco visto da casa Leopardi. In 
primo piano si collocano le istituzioni (ovvero le riviste e le accademie) e gli intellettuali 
marchigiani cui Monaldo e Giacomo Leopardi si legarono maggiormente, talvolta anche 
al di la delle loro fedi politiche e religiose (come nel caso dell’amicizia con i Broglio 
d’Ajano). Carattere generale ha anche |’intervento di Franco d’Intino, volto a penetrare lo 
status intermedio del genere epistolare, non solo tra carattere documentario e carattere 
letterario, ma anche tra dimensione sinceramente privata (e quindi in certa misura aperta 
sugli abissi dell’io) e dimensione classicamente pubblica (e quindi passata al vaglio di un 
controllo non solo letterario). 

Col saggio di Carini su Saverio Broglio d’Ajano si passa quindi all’analisi puntuale 
di alcune delle figure che, pur senza meritare un posto nella storia letteraria nazionale, 
animarono la scena culturale recanatese primo-ottocentesca, influendo in misura non 
sufficientemente investigata prima di questa raccolta sulla vicenda intellettuale tanto di 
Giacomo quanto di Monaldo Leopardi. 

Carini mette cosi a confronto le traduzioni artistiche del Broglio con quelle, 
maggiormente aderenti all’originale, di Giacomo Leopardi, mentre Dimarti si sofferma 
sulle traduzioni che Guerrieri diede delle prime canzoni leopardiane (oltre che su altri due 
fermani, Fracassetti e Muzzarelli, che pure legarono il proprio nome a quello di Giacomo, 
pur se principaimente in morte). 

Non pit! Giacomo, bensi Carlo, Luigi e Paolina, sono quindi i membri di casa 
Leopardi chiamati in causa da Paola Ciarlantini nel suo saggio sui musicisti e sul 
melodramma a Recanati nel primo ottocento, mentre Paola Magnarelli si concentra sulle 
figure di tre medici variamente legati a Giacomo, ed in particolare su quella di Puccinotti, 
vera e propria incarnazione dell’intellettuale borghese engagé messo alla berlina nella 
Palinodia. 

La famiglia Broglio d’Ajano, nella persona questa volta del patriota e rivoluzionario 
Andrea, viene quindi nuovamente evocata da Michela Meschini, insieme a Giacomo 
Beltrami, in relazione alla “divisata fuga” leopardiana del 1819, in virtt di una comune 
ansia per il viaggio gia pienamente romantica. 

Con Sara Lorenzetti, la figura di Leopardi passa in secondo piano per lasciare spazio 
alla relazione tra Giacomo Ricci e Caterina Franceschi, letterata nota e stimata da 
Leopardi, che non esitd a proporlesi come intermediario rispetto allo Stella. Carla 
Carotenuto risale quindi, attraverso la madre di Giacomo, Adelaide Antici, alla famiglia 
Baviera di Senigallia (Romualdo Baviera aveva sposato nel 1806 una sorella di Adelaide) 
per studiarne la storia, mentre Marta Giuliadori scende attraverso Pierfrancesco, 
l’ultimogenito di Adelaide, alla famiglia Ferretti, cui apparteneva la moglie Maria Cleofe, 
dalle cui vicende traggono nuova luce le figure della madre e della sorella di Giacomo 
Leopardi. 

L’ultimo saggio é stato riservato da Vito Punzi ad alcuni ecclesiastici di particolare 
rilievo nella Marca primo-ottocentesca, a partire dal celeberrimo Giuseppe Antonio 
Vogel, che fu di guida a Giacomo nelle prime prove storico-filologiche. 


561 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


Di indubbia utilita appare la seconda sezione dell’opera, che da una parte corregge 
ed arricchisce le vite gia disponibili (come quella del Fracassetti nel DB/, di cui Dimarti 
denuncia i limiti riguardo al periodo romano e alla collaborazione col Muzzarelli) e 
dall’altra offre la prima trattazione delle vicende biografiche di alcune figure minori 
(come le sorelle Maria Francesca e Rosa Persiani). Al raggruppamento delle singole voci 
sulla scorta del curatore, si sarebbe, perO, preferito |’ordinamento di tipo alfabetico, che 
avrebbe semplificato e reso quindi piu rapida la consultazione. 

Sarebbe stata altresi auspicabile una maggiore uniformita nelle modalita di 
redazione delle singole schede biografiche (una manca dell’indicazione delle fonti, 
alcune sono dotate di una breve introduzione, altre presentano una bibliografia ragionata), 
ma il lavoro svolto dal gruppo guidato da Alfredo Luzi costituisce comunque un esempio 
ed un punto di riferimento obbligato per chiunque rivolga il proprio interesse al contesto 
culturale in cui si formd, e per tanta parte della vita operd, Giacomo Leopardi. 

Ancora pit! preziosi appaiono da questo punto di vista i materiali raccolti nel secondo 
volume dell’opera, che accoglie centinaia di documenti inediti, soprattutto lettere, di 
persone che entrarono in contatto colla famiglia Leopardi, anche se gran parte di questi 
documenti non la riguardano direttamente (come le lettere di Andrea Broglio al padre o 
quelle di Caterina Franceschi a Giacomo Ricci). Talvolta si ha anzi l’impressione che si 
sarebbero potute sacrificare alcune di queste lettere, estranee alle vicende dei Leopardi, a 
favore di altre che ebbero i Leopardi per mittenti o destinatari (come le lettere di 
Monaldo allo stampatore Annesio Nobili, di cui sono riprodotte solo cinque lettere su un 
corpus che ne conta una settantina). Di fronte alla campionatura di un corpus di diverse 
migliaia di documenti apparirebbe d’altra parte ingeneroso segnalare le inevitabili 
mancanze, invece di elogiare l’importanza del lavoro avviato e che ci auguriamo il 
gruppo di Luzi avra la forza e soprattutto il modo di portare avanti. 

Paolo Rambelli, University College London 


Elizabeth Schachter. Origin and Identity: Essays on Svevo and Trieste. Leeds: 
Northern Universities Press, 2000. Pp. vii + 179. 

Elizabeth Schachter’s keen integration of sources in Origin and Identity becomes evident 
in her first chapter, “Trieste: A City of Paradox,” which surveys Triestine cultural history 
from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries from a variety of contrasting viewpoints: 
Habsburg, irredentist, Slovene, fascist. This essay is largely successful at painting a 
picture, with the “doppia anima” of Svevo at its center, of the unique “multicultural, 
multi-ethnic border city” that was Trieste at the end of the nineteenth century and the 
beginning of the twentieth. But Schachter’s otherwise painstaking attention to detail — 
every page contains from four to eleven footnotes, averaging between six and seven — 
actually points to a telling deficiency. After noting that “Trieste, throughout the centuries 
of Austrian rule, had not become Germanized for two main reasons: the hinterland of 
Trieste was not German-speaking,” the author neglects to make the necessary 
clarification that it was and continues to be primarily Slavic-speaking. This is one of 
Trieste’s cultural oddities, as Italian cities go. The omission, which appears small, is 
characteristic: while gesturing toward Trieste’s multicultural, multi-ethnic, and per force 
multilingual heritage, Schachter’s treatment, like most “western” examinations of the 
Triestine crucible, is essentially Italocentric. Thus, with all its wealth of source material, 
Schachter’s book does not reference a single Slovene work. To be fair, the author does 


562 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


not claim do have written a comparative study, nor is Origin and Identity intended for an 
audience of comparatists (the series is /talian Perspectives). But to be fairer still (to the 
material, that is), when the subject is the métissage of Triestine culture, then expanding 
linguistic and disciplinary boundaries is absolutely necessary for a balanced portrayal. 

More successful are the subsequent chapters, which focus securely on Svevo’s texts 
and a more narrowly conceived Sitz in Leben. Chapter Two, “Svevo and the Triestine 
Jewish Community,” provides an especially welcome reevaluation of Triestine Jewish 
culture with the help of a hitherto neglected source, the Corriere israelitico, an influential 
monthly Jewish journal published in Trieste from 1862 to 1915. Partly with its help, but 
also on the basis of a careful reading of correspondence, Schachter manages to shed light 
on antisemitism in Trieste—which is often claimed to have been non-existent—, show 
the interweavings of various noteworthy Triestine families, including the Schmitzes, and 
draw interesting parallels, albeit on a smaller scale, with the pattern of upward social 
mobility in the family histories of Freud, Mahler, Rothschild and others. She also 
provides a sensitive treatment of Svevo’s ambiguous conversion to Catholicism and its 
long-lasting effects on his life and art. 

Chapter Three, “Don Juanism: Rivalry and Betrayal,” is essentially a treatment of 
Oedipal patterns in Una vita, Senilita, and La coscienza di Zeno. As such, it again 
introduces a plethora of sources and proceeds from a careful reading of the works in 
question, though the insights that follow from such an analysis are not altogether 
apparent. When, in the essay’s final paragraph, the author observes that La coscienza di 
Zeno diverges from the pattern of Don Juanism set by the previous two novels, it is not 
clear what such a divergence might mean in the context of Svevo’s literary maturation. 

In Chapter Four, “Sacred and Profane Love,” Schachter turns her attention to 
Svevo’s portrayal of women. Here again, the analysis is strongest in its exploration of the 
rapport between Svevo’s fiction and Schmitz’s life, especially in its discussion of the 
images of strong (“virile”) women and the mother-in-law. Given Schachter’s overall 
approach, greater contextualization with regard to the position of women specifically in 
Habsburg society would not have been amiss: her sources here are predominantly in 
British fiction and society, e.g., Williams’ Women and the English Novel, Foster’s 
Victorian Women’s Fiction. 

Following Chapter Five, which furnishes a brief discussion of the narrative “texture” 
of Senilita using Gerard Genette’s concept of narrative focalization, Schachter devotes 
her two final chapters to La coscienza di Zeno. These are the two most promising essays 
of the book. In the first, “Time and Narration in La coscienza di Zeno,” Schachter takes 
up James Joyce’s observation regarding the innovative manner in which time is rendered 
“complex” and “fluid.” She first provides a supremely clear reconstruction of the work’s 
fabula, or chronological raw material, as a foundation for discussing the various temporal 
skips and fluctuations. Of special interest here are the dual roles of humor and irony in 
the fifty-seven year old, reminiscing narrator, characteristics not shared by the projected 
youthful self. Schachter’s extensive knowledge of the critical sources on Svevo are once 
again on display in the final chapter, “La coscienza di Zeno: A Parody of 
Psychoanalysis,” which contains enlightening discussions of auto-suggestion therapy and 
the potential influence of Wilhelm Stekl (1868-1940) on Svevo’s work. Whether one 
agrees with the author’s claim regarding the parodic relationship of Svevo’s final novel to 
psychoanalysis (a satiric attitude does not necessarily translate into parody), the careful 
exegesis of the works of Stekl, a founding member of the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society 


563 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


and an acquaintance of Schmitz, represents a valuable contribution to studi sveviani in 
and of itself. 
Russell Valentino, University of lowa 


Gaetana Marrone. Lo sguardo e il labirinto: il cinema di Liliana Cavani. Trans. 
Simone Marchesi. Venezia: Marsilio Editore, 2003. Pp. 232. 

Lo sguardo e il labirinto, which was originally published in English as The Gaze and the 
Labyrinth, takes an interdisciplinary approach to the films of Italian director Liliana 
Cavani. To the non-specialist public, the name of Liliana Cavani may be most clearly 
associated with scandal and controversy, principally for two reasons. The first is the 
clamor caused in 1974 by the release of the now infamous // portiere di notte (Night 
Porter), a film starring Dirk Bogarde and the equally controversial Charlotte Rampling. 
The second reason may be the long-lived and much debated and commented. rivalry 
existing between the two most famous Italian women directors of the 1970s, Cavani and 
Lina Wertmiiller. Many critics have felt the need over the years to offer us their opinions 
about which of these two directors had more or less merit. For some, they were both 
opportunistic and not very talented scandal seekers; for others, they were both gifted 
directors worthy of accolades. 

However, Gaetana Marrone has not targeted the general public with her book. This 
is a scholarly work which, taking a chronological approach, examines Liliana Cavani’s 
films in all the stages of production, from the screenplay to the cutting room floor, and 
even to her battles against censorship. What Marrone has chosen to downplay is the 
public’s reception of the films and the director’s biography, both subjects that could 
certainly be of considerable interest in themselves but would, therefore, exceed the scope 
of the book as she has conceived it. Both these subjects are taken into account only when 
they are essential to the understanding of the film under discussion. The material that 
Marrone has drawn upon is varied: interviews with Cavani, preliminary screenplays, 
production notes, and previously unpublished sources. The book, divided into three parts 
plus an introduction, notes, and a filmography, takes as its premise that Cavani’s films 
fall into two categories, the “realist,” and the “psychological” — two sides that represent 
Cavani’s ambivalence towards the representation of reality (translated as i] mondo 
fenomenico). Part one, “II labirinto: cognizione e immaginazione tragica,” discusses 
Francesco di Assisi, Galileo, and I cannibali. Marrone’s purpose in this section is to 
analyze Cavani’s treatment of illusion and reality at this early stage of her career. Among 
the themes we find the embodiment of reality, illusion versus reality, and metaphors of 
rebellion, respectively. In part two, Marrone turns her attention to the “transgressive 
gaze” (/o sguardo trasgressivo) as she examines I] portiere di notte, Al di la del bene e 
del male, and Interno berlinese. Finally, in part three, Marrone discusses visual 
metaphors (/e metafore della visione), specifically in Francesco, Milarepa, and Dove 
siete? Io sono qui. The author informs us that the title of the book, Lo sguardo e il 
labirinto, refers to emblematic situations in Cavani’s films: the complex relationship 
between the events narrated and the language used to narrate them, the importance of the 
gaze as the driving force of thought and desire, and the transgression that ultimately 
allows the protagonist to transcend the limits of social structures and to step “beyond the 
door” — Cavani’s most poetic and eloquent metaphor, in Marrone’s view. 


564 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Although, as previously mentioned, there is very little biographical information in 
this book, the introduction provides some essential details that help us to understand 
Cavani’s work and its underlying philosophy. Marrone does tell us a little about the 
shaping influences and determining experiences of the director’s early life. For example, 
as a child she witnessed an execution by firing squad of sixteen partisans in her native 
town of Carpi. This event played an inspirational role in J cannibali and perhaps in 
Cavani’s view of the individual’s role in “politics.” For Cavani, to be political connotes 
the Aristotelian sense of the individual’s inevitable participation in the social life and 
affairs of the “polis,” the community. And while always remaining staunchly unaffiliated 
with any political party, Cavani considers making films a political act on both a personal 
and societal level. On the personal level, it has served as an essential vehicle for her own 
self-expression; she has gone as far as to state that, without film, she would have been 
condemned to an inability to express herself, to unhappiness, and perhaps even the insane 
asylum (15). On the societal level, Cavani has stated that Italian directors have 
influenced, “nel bene e nel male, gli orientamenti culturali del dopoguerra; sono 
responsabili di vizi, vezzi e virtu della nazione [...]” (16). Filmmaking has also allowed 
Cavani to indulge her unquenchable thirst to unsettle bourgeois assumptions and 
prejudices. In short, far from shunning scandal and controversy, she has always 
welcomed them and harnessed their power. 

Although Marrone’s discussion is cogent and compelling throughout, there is one 
aspect of it that is of particular interest. Liliana Cavani is one of the few directors who 
have made two different movies about the same subject. In 1966 she made Francesco di 
Assisi, her first full-length film, starring Lou Castel. In 1989 she made a second film, 
Francesco, this time starring Mickey Rourke as the unlikely St. Francis. Marrone reveals 
that when the idea was initially suggested to Cavani, she rejected it immediately, fearing 
that such a project would inevitably turn out to be a sort of remake. However, on second 
thought, she decided that her trepidation was unfounded and she went ahead with it. 
Marrone analyzes the two films and reaches the conclusion that they were indeed very 
different in every important respect. For example, the first was pre-1968 not only in 
chronological time but also in ideology and spirit, informed by the socio-political and 
economic rhetoric of power. It was a film about the present, Marrone writes. The 1989 
film de-romanticized the first Francesco by portraying him as a confused man wallowing 
in the labyrinthine depths between the oneiric and the demonic. Yet ironically, it was also 
a film about hope and the future, the dark and confusion being stages towards the light. 
If, to use the author’s metaphor, this was a film literally and figuratively suggesting 
existence in a dark tunnel, then we can say that Cavani saw light at the end of it. 

There is little doubt that Gaetana Marrone’s book is a compelling work of 
scholarship and research that legitimizes the work of a director who has too often, at least 
until now, been undervalued. 

Grace Russo Bullaro, City University of New York, Lehman College 


Segnali sul nulla. Studi e testimonianze per Juan Rodolfo Wilcock, a cura di Roberto 
Deidier, Roma, Edizioni Treccani, 2002, pp. XI — 146. 

L’Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana Giovanni Treccani pubblica gli atti della giornata di 
studio per il ventennale della morte di Juan Rodolfo Wilcock, tenutasi a Roma il 12 
maggio 1998 con la collaborazione dell’Universita di Palermo. Il volume, curato da 


565 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Roberto Deidier, registra in maniera giustamente provocatoria il vuoto critico che 
circonda I’opera dello scrittore italo-argentino, proponendosi fin dal titolo come un vero e 
proprio “segnale sul nulla’, “strumento di conoscenza intorno a un autore spesso 
trascurato dalla storiografia letteraria” (X1). 

La vicenda biografica di Wilcock, in effetti, ha qualcosa di paradossale e di 
completamente anomalo. Formatosi nella Buenos Aires degli anni ’40, a diretto contatto 
con personalita quali Luis Borges e Bioy Casares, egli esordi con una serie di raccolte 
poetiche in lingua spagnola, dal Libro de poemas y canciones (1940) con cui vinse il 
premio Martin Fierro, a Sexto (1953), fino alla tragedia in versi Los traidores (1956), 
realizzato a quattro mani con Silvina Ocampo. Ma il tratto che maggiormente definisce il 
suo carattere — oltre all’eclettismo che lo portd verso la prosa, la traduzione, il teatro e 
lattivita giornalistica — resta, comunque, la mobilita intellettuale, il cosmopolitismo, 
soprattutto l’inclinazione poliglotta che segno a fondo il suo temperamento di scrittore. 
Sulla base di queste coordinate, ma anche per una profonda insofferenza nei confronti del 
regime peronista, egli si trasferi, nel corso degli anni Cinquanta, a Roma, dove avvid una 
ricca ed appartata produzione in lingua italiana. 

Il volume curato da Deidier é diviso in tre sezioni. La prima — dal titolo 
accattivante Una enorme morale inconsapevole — contiene delle rapide immagini 
tracciate lungo il filo della memoria, dove la figura di Wilcock si ricompone all’interno di 
una riflessione trasversale, al limite della testimonianza. I macro-tasselli di questo puzzle 
— oltre al profilo introduttivo di Gianni Puglisi sui Linguaggi di Wilcock — sono 
rappresentati dai frammenti delle lettere inedite riproposte da Miguel Murmis, dalle quali 
si disegna un uomo in continua lotta “per essere se stesso” (12), incompatibile con la 
societa, ma segnato da un bisogno autentico di superare le proprie solitudini (“Mi sentivo 
molto solo a Londra e per un mese ho desiderato ardentemente ricevere [...] qualche 
lettera che mi dimostrasse che da qualche parte avevo un amico nonostante le mie cattive 
qualita” 12). In questo spazio del ricordo si inscrive anche il ritratto con cui Elio Pecora, 
in un mosaico di piccoli aneddoti personali, ricostruisce un Wilcock quotidiano, filtrato 
dalla luce di sensazioni improvvise, di episodi secondari, che lo proiettano, attraverso 
singolari diapositive della parola, in uno schermo sfocato e pieno di fascino. 

La seconda sezione del libro, Cambiare lingua e pubblico, si concentra attorno 
all’aspetto pit! problematico ed attraente della personalita di Wilcock, il suo statuto 
culturalmente ibrido, a cavallo tra una produzione in lingua spagnola e una italiana. 
L’intervento di Vanni Blengino si sofferma proprio sulla componente bifronte della sua 
opera, sottolineandone la dimensione biunivoca e doppia. La mancata comprensione di 
questo aspetto, con la conseguente assenza di uno studio comparato dei diversi momenti 
della sua poetica, rischia di restituire un narratore calvinianamente “dimezzato”, le cui 
meta “non vengono mai ricucite, in contrasto con l’operazione [...] di rudimentale sintesi 
culturale e sociale che ogni migrante, invece, sperimenta nella propria vita” (27). In 
questa prospettiva risulta interessante il lavoro di Amanda Salvioni sul Wilcock 
“argentino”, che permette di fotografare i singoli istanti della sua maturazione letteraria, 
dai testi d’esordio all’attivita in riviste quali “Disco” 0 “Verde memoria”. 

L’ultima sezione del volume (L ‘arte di parlare per figure), dedicata alla produzione 
italiana, ospita interventi sulle molteplici componenti della fisionomia artistica dello 
scrittore. La lettura di Roberto Deidier, rivolta in particolare al percorso lirico, rintraccia 
una stratigrafia poetica misurata sull’impronta dantesca, anche se recuperata tramite la 
lezione di T. S. Eliot e Borges. Ad essa si associa l’ipotesi di una “poetica del luogo 


566 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


comune” definita da Arturo Mazzarella, dove la convenzionalita del linguaggio, contro 
cui Wilcock aveva inizialmente lanciato una “strenua sfida”’, diventa il dato 
ontologicamente fondante, “quintessenza” dell’espressione da cui non poter prescindere. 
Pit attenti alla dimensione narrativa sono invece i contributi di Giorgio Patrizi e 
Francesca Bernardini Napoletano, che, da diversi punti di vista, cercano di focalizzare 
lobiettivo attorno a due aspetti interconnessi della produzione wilcockiana: quello 
dell’iconoclastia, intesa come segmento dissacratorio della sua scrittura, e quello del 
fantastico, seppur modulato attraverso la curvatura dell’assurdo. 

Sempre in quest’ultima sezione é interessante |’intervento di Massimo Fusillo 
sull’aspetto probabilmente meno noto dell’autore, quello di saggista e teorico letterario. 
Recuperando un articolo sul monologo interiore del marzo °59, gia ricordato da Giacomo 
Debenedetti nel Romanzo del Novecento, Fusillo sottolinea l’aspetto intenzionalmente 
dilettantesco con cui Wilcock si avvicina a questioni di tipo specialistico, anche se il suo 
senso critico riesce in fondo a cogliere “alcuni nodi problematici che verranno poi 
sviscerati [...] con tutt’altra sistematicita nel decennio successivo” (109). Meno 
dilettantesco é invece il suo profilo di traduttore e interprete, analizzato con particolare 
attenzione da Franco Buffoni. Dal suo studio emerge un intellettuale attento alle piu 
recenti teorie della filosofia del linguaggio — da Barthes alla scuola di Palo Alto —, 
anche se mediate, nell’effettiva prassi traduttiva, da un irrinunciabile bisogno di 
confronto “poietico” con i propri autori. I] saggio di Pietro Favari, infine, si orienta verso 
un ulteriore aspetto della produzione di Wilcock, quello teatrale, segnato da una 
“negazione dell’attore a teatro” (126), o meglio da una sua sostituzione con un’umanita 
abnorme, distorta, sintetizzata dall’animalita esasperante del suo personaggio forse piu 
grottesco: l’abominevole donna delle neve. 

Dal punto di vista dell’apparato critico c’é da segnalare, in appendice, la sezione 
bibliografica dedicata alla produzione argentina e italiana. La prima, curata da Amanda 
Salvioni, integra i titoli in spagnolo con le collaborazioni su riviste, le traduzioni e 
un’indicazione generale sulla generazione argentina del ’40. La sezione italiana, curata da 
Roberto Deidier, organizza il panorama critico in senso cronologico, dalle prime 
recensioni agli interventi pit recenti, corredandolo con informazioni relative a siti 
Internet, tesi di laurea, carteggi ed interviste. Pur non esistendo un lavoro organico e 
monografico, il profilo che questa bibliografia ricostruisce é quello di uno scrittore ben 
inserito nel contesto culturale italiano degli anni Sessanta-Settanta, apprezzato da critici 
raffinati come Carlo Bo e Giacomo Debenedetti, o da un autore come Pasolini che lo 
filmd, nelle vesti di Caifa, nel suo Vangelo secondo Matteo. Uomo schivo e complesso, 
Wilcock riemerge, grazie a questo testo prezioso, in tutta la sua poliedrica intelligenza, 
ma anche nel segno di uno stimolo verso la sua opera multiforme, sempre moderna, 
ancora tutta da esplorare. 

Giorgio Nisini, Universita di Roma “La Sapienza” 


Franco Zangrilli, ed. La Ciociaria tra letteratura e cinema. Pesaro: Metauro Edizioni, 
2002. Pp. 385. 

This volume collects essays presented during a three-day conference held in Ripi on 
January, 2002, that was devoted to the assessment of the rich cultural patrimony of the 
Ciociaria region. This is an area that, even though administratively and geographically 
confined to the province of Frosinone, culturally extends to the coastal areas of southern 


567 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Lazio. After three official addresses by Ripi’s mayor and two of the city’s aldermen 
respectively, Franco Zangrilli, the organizer of the event and the editor of the present 
volume, provides the reader with a “Presentazione” that, by naming a most impressive 
number of painters, philosophers, musicians, novelists, filmmakers, and journalists who 
have originated from Ciociaria, offers a good introduction to this most culturally fertile 
region. 

Zangrilli’s overview is followed by the contribution of one of Italy’s most 
distinguished writers, Giuseppe Bonaviri, who, in his “Ciociaria gentile,” sketches an 
anthropological and socio-historical panorama of Ciociaria and its people from antiquity 
to the post-World War II era. Franco Zangrilli and Belén Hernandez offer two 
examinations of Bonaviri’s own relationship with a region that, ever since 1957, has 
actually become Bonaviri’s adopted home. While Zangrilli’s “Bonaviri e la Ciociaria” 
documents the references to the landscape, culture, and the people of Ciociaria that 
inhabit the vast majority of Bonaviri’s corpus, Hernandez’s “Bonaviri figlio adottivo 
della Ciociaria” contends that the region functions as a distancing device from which 
Bonaviri’s native land of Sicily can be examined. However, as is typical of Bonaviri’s 
style, the representation of Sicily through the prism of Ciociaria remains situated outside 
the objective canons of realism. 

The fourth and fifth essays, by Marcello Carlino and Neria De Giovanni 
respectively, focus on Tommaso Landolfi, a native of the region and the descendant of an 
aristocratic family from Pico. Carlino, in his “Le terre di Landolfi,’ examines the 
contribution of Landolfi to “Foglietti di viaggio,” an editorial of the journal // Mondo, 
published during the years of the post-World War II reconstruction. Focusing on the 
critique of Frosinone contained in Landolfi’s “I contrafforti di Frosinone,” Carlino argues 
that this piece is symptomatic of the author’s desire to find an unnamed, mythical land 
and should not be interpreted, as it was done at the time of its publication, as a 
disparaging critique of the region. De Giovanni’s “Tommaso Landolfi: un ciociaro 
‘fantastico,’” argues that while it is undeniable that the genre of the “fantastic” in Italian 
literary tradition owes much to the influence of foreign writers, such as Hoffmann, Poe, 
Gogol, Novalis, and so on, there is a strong connection to the Ciociaria region in some of 
Landolfi’s tales. Focusing on what is arguably Landolfi’s most visionary work, La pietra 
lunare, De Giovanni convincingly argues that its characters are modeled on some of the 
pagan travesties that are still part of the region’s folkloric rituals. 

Five of the essays that follow Di Giovanni’s contribution are devoted to the many 
poets of the region. In his “De Libero cantore della Ciociaria,” Gerardo Vacana begins by 
revisiting the biography of Libero De Libero, especially the affective ties to the village of 
Patrica, before arguing that in De Libero’s work the presence of Ciociaria is particularly 
strong in the representation of nature, more than culture, and of the pre-Christian and pre- 
Roman times as opposed to later civilizations. Rodolfo Di Biasio recounts, in his “Su 
‘Ascolta la Ciociaria, ”’ his personal encounter with De Libero in 1977 before examining 
those aspects of De Libero’s poem that are indebted to the techniques of the region’s 
traditional folksingers. Amerigo Ianaccone, in his “Poeti ciociari,” provides a panorama 
of poets from the area encompassing the province of Frosinone. His contribution is not 
intended to offer a critical reading but is confined to a selection of poetry by Dante 
Cerilli, Antonio De Angelis, Donato Di Poce, Amedeo Di Sora, Elmerindo Fiore, Sergio 
Sollima, Giulio Tamburrini, Igor Traboni, and others. Tommasina Gabriele’s 
contribution, “Una poetessa di origine ciociara: Maria Luisa Spaziani,” begins by 


568 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


addressing the legitimacy of including Spaziani within the canon of poets of the region, 
since her heritage is only partially from Ciociaria. In a second part, Gabriele discusses 
Spaziani’s Stella polare and Transito con catene, and places these works within the 
framework of inquiry provided by the feminist philosophical meditation of Adriana 
Cavarero and Luisa Muraro. Simona Wright’s “La funzione del paesaggio ciociaro nella 
poesia di Gézim Hadjari” begins by arguing that, in the last twenty years, the Ciociaria 
region has been the destination of immigrants coming from sub-Saharan and Eastern 
European regions. Since many of these immigrants have given voice to their experience, 
Wright draws upon Franca Sinopoli’s Poetiche della migrazione nella letteratura italiana 
contempornea to establish a poetics of immigration based upon the evolution from 
autobiographical representation, or “figurato,” to a meditation on the contradiction and 
conflicts experienced in the host country, or “figurale.” Wright applies this model to the 
seven collections of poetry published by Hadjari, who relocated to Frosinone in 1992 
from his native Albania. 

While the above essays clearly demonstrate how Ciociaria has been an extremely 
fertile terrain for poetry, the contributions that follow also establish the importance of the 
region for literary and cinematic narratives. Raffaele Pellecchia, in his “La condizione 
postuma nella narrativa di Giuseppe Neri,” examines the post-metaphysical condition 
expressed in the writing of ruins and fragments that is typical of Neri, a native of 
Sant’ Apollinare, and the author of L’uccello di Chagall, Bolero, and L’ultima dogana. 
Giuseppe Faustini discusses cinematic adaptations of Alberto Moravia’s short story “La 
ciociara” (1954) and homonymous novel in 1957 by filmmakers Vittorio De Sica in 1960 
and Dino Risi in 1988. Antonio Vitti’s “La Ciociaria nel cinema” provides a useful 
panorama of films that are either set in the region or that have characters from the region. 
It is Vitti’s contention that many of these films tend to represent the inhabitants of 
Ciociaria as comic or backward characters. By contrast, Giuseppe De Santis’s films, 
especially Giorni d’amore, reveal the sensibility of the filmmaker whose work represents 
the historical and socio-cultural reality of the region without ever degenerating into 
paternalistic and comedic representations. Maria Rosaria Vitti-Alexander’s contribution, 
“Anton Giulio Bragaglia e il mondo artistico italiano,” provides a brief account of the 
eclectic intellectual interests of Anton Giulio Bragaglia, born in Frosinone in 1890. While 
much of the information provided by Vitti-Alexander is of a biographical nature, her 
piece has nonetheless the merit of situating Bragaglia’s intellectual pursuits within the 
context of Futurist painting, drama, and cinema. The two essays that follow, by Amilcare 
A. Iannucci and Franco Boni respectively, examine the presence of a famed son of 
Ciociaria, Saint Thomas Aquinas, in Dante’s Commedia. Both Iannucci’s “San Tommaso 
e il canone teologico in Dante” and Boni’s “San Tommaso d’ Aquino e Dante” argue that 
while some of the tenets of Thomism inform many cantos of the Paradiso, Dante’s 
perspective adheres to the principles set forth by philosophical voluntarism. In a 
somewhat abrupt change of topic, the essay that follows, by European Parliament 
member Gerardo Gaibisso, provides a personal account of his experience in the region 
from Fascism to the 1990s. Gaibisso’s pages also pay homage to the rich cultural 
tradition of Ciociaria, while documenting the developments undergone by many of the 
region’s smaller towns. The last essay, by Angelo Capalbo, is titled “Riflessioni sul 
convegno” and provides closing remarks on the conference. 

Overall, this is an interesting volume, and even though a number of the essays 
remain more informative than critical, La Ciociaria tra letteratura e cinema fulfills its 


569 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


stated goal of presenting the rich cultural patrimony of the region while accounting for 
the socio-economic and historical forces that have shaped it. 
Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


Maria Sechi, Giovanna Santoro, and Maria Antonietta Santoro, eds. L’ombra lunga 
dell’esilio Ebraismo e memoria. Firenze: Giuntina, 2002. Pp. 271. 

L’ombra lunga dell’esilio is an anthology of essays originating from a conference on 
Judaism and exile held in Nuoro in the fall of 2000. While some of the contributions 
provide interesting perspectives on the topic, the overall organization of the volume is 
marred by the lack of a clear rationale. This is especially true with the first section, “Le 
forme dell’esilio,” where a number of contributions are only marginally integrated within 
the theme of the section itself. 

The volume begins with a brief presentation by Maria Sechi, followed by a 
contribution by Dario Calimani. Despite serving as the introduction to the volume, 
Calimani’s “Introduzione. L’esilio e la ferita della memoria” does not provide an 
overview of the anthology, but only a broad discussion of how exile in Hebraic culture 
should be understood in both mythical and historical terms. Calimani contends that while 
mythical exile is a quest for knowledge (as suggested by the etymological root of “glh,” 
or “to reveal,” in the Hebrew word for exile, or “galuth”), Western history has attributed 
religious, racial, and political meanings to the original Jewish concept. The tragic history 
of anti-Semitism, from the medieval pogroms to the Shoah, testifies to this fateful 
attribution, since the mythical “galuth” has been transformed into an unredeemable exile 
from humanity, reason, and compassion. Nevertheless, Calimani concludes that in the 
wound created by the historical “exilium” also lies the possibility of resistance through 
remembrance. 

Calimani’s piece is followed by the three main sections of the volume. The first, “Le 
forme dell’esilio,” contains seven contributions, of which the initial essay, “La memoria e 
il suo esilio,” is penned again by Dario Calimani. He argues that the memories of Jewish 
historical exiles have been distanced and normalized by archives, monuments, and 
museums. Among the effects of this process of objectification is the neutralization of 
memory’s ability to transmit pain and, therefore, promote empathy and emotion. Art 
might challenge this process by representations that defamiliarize objectified forms in 
irrational expressions, following the model established by Picasso’s Guernica or 
Beckett’s Endgame. 

While Calimani’s piece is informed by philosophical categories, Corrado Zedda’s 
“Tl ruolo degli ebrei in Sardegna” appears to be a chapter of micro-history and focuses on 
the Jewish presence on the island from the Middle Ages to the early modern period. 
Zedda contends that, unlike other European areas where Jews were subject to intolerance 
and brutality, in Sardinia they enjoyed a certain amount of freedom and, after the decrees 
of King Alphonse IV of Aragona in the 1330s, many communities flourished. Claudio 
Natoli’s “Il Fascismo italiano e la persecuzione contro gli ebrei: problemi storici e 
storiografici” provides an overview of recent publications and documentaries on anti- 
Semitism in Italy between 1938 and 1945. Unlike other works on the subject, including 
publications by Karl Dietrich Bracher and Renzo De Felice among others, that did 
minimize the role of Fascism in anti-Semitic practices, these recent publications reveal 
that after September 8", 1943, the roads of German and Italian anti-Semitism were 


570 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


joined. The third and fourth essays address the topic of Zionism. “La Palestina: terra 
promessa e terra d’esilio per Else Lasker-Schiiler,” by Virginia Verrienti, focuses on the 
work of the famed German poet. A close examination of Lasker-Schiiler’s letters allows 
Verrienti to argue that while her creative writings represent a mythical, idealized version 
of the Promised Land, her letters reveal a much more problematic relationship with 
Zionism. “Sionismo ed esilio: Emigrazione ebraica in Palestina,” by Enrico Fubini, 
contends that while Zionism was originally characterized by an adherence to the German 
Enlightenment concept of Bildung, or the ideal of education as a tool to overcome 
prejudices, it later became a means to recover a lost Jewish identity. Giannarita Mele’s 
“Gli ebrei sovietici negli anni della rivoluzione e dello stalinismo” examines the impact 
of the Soviet revolution of 1917 on Jewish communities, and argues that the new 
government ensured civil liberties and freedom of expression. This is the reason why 
Jewish communities of the 1920s experienced a cultural blossoming, as the names of 
Jewish avant-gardists Ejzenstejn, Babel, Sklovskij, and Mejerchold testify. With 
Stalinism, however, a strong policy of forced assimilation and integration prevailed, 
thereby opening the path for all future emigrations, including the ones of the 1970s and 
1980s. The last essay of this section, Manlio Brigaglia’s “Su disterru: \’emigrazione 
forzata nella Sardegna del ventennio,” focuses again on the impact of racial laws on the 
island, especially on the Jewish community in the city of Sassari. It is Brigaglia’s 
contention that since Jewish communities were very small, the impact of Fascist-led 
racial persecutions was by necessity also limited. 

The second section of this volume, “Coltivando l’illusione,’ contains only one 
essay, Maria Sechi’s “Stampa ebraica in Germania durante il terzo Reich.” In one of the 
most interesting pieces in this collection, the author argues that after 1933, the symbiotic 
relationship between Jews and Germans came to an end as anti-Semitism escalated into 
horrific forms. However, while the Jewish press had a limited Jewish readership before 
1933, in the years that followed readership grew, and the press became a forum for some 
of the most important writers of the time, including Joseph Roth, Stefan Zweig, and 
Arthur Schnitzler. The regime was relatively tolerant since it assumed that German 
readers would not be interested in the works of Jewish intellectuals. However, this was 
not the case. Because many of the publications covered events that were occurring 
outside Germany, readership widened to include a considerable number of non-Jewish 
men and women. 

The third section of this anthology, “Scrittura e coscienza letteraria,” is comprised of 
five essays that, unlike the ones contained in the first part of the volume, are better 
integrated into the theme announced by the title of the section. Klaus Voigt’s “La 
memorialistica dei profughi ebrei in Italia dopo il 1933” provides a good bibliography on 
private writing by Jewish men and women from 1933 to the Resistance. The essay also 
includes detailed analysis of the memoirs of a number of women, including Ursula 
Hirschmann, Maria Eisenstein, and Elsa Springer, whose // silenzio dei vivi is the only 
extant text on the deportation of Jews from Italy. 

Paola Boi’s contribution, “Una porta per diventare persona,” offers a panorama of 
the Eastern European Jewish immigration to the east coast of the United States before 
focusing on the work of Anzia Yezierska. A female Jewish orthodox writer and the 
author of The Bread Giver and The Fat of the Land, Yezierska resisted the forces of 
assimilation that were prevalent in the States during the 1920s by extensively using 


571 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Yiddish, a language that, as Kafka once wrote, incorporates all the tongues of the Jewish 
diaspora and, therefore, is the speech of Jewish difference, but also identity. 

Sandro Maxia’s essay, “La lista di Aron,” examines the scholarly debate 
surrounding Italo Svevo’s relationship to Hebraic culture. Maxia argues that while 
Giacomo Debenedetti detected, in Svevo’s work, a tragic manifestation of Judaism as 
“jtidischer Selbsthass,” or “Jewish self-hate,” allegedly unfolding into feelings of guilt 
and victimization, Benjamin Crémieux argued for the presence of Jewish irony and a 
corrosive sense of humor in Svevo’s work. A third critic, Giuseppe Antonio Camerino, 
also located elements of Judaic culture in that refusal to conform that is typical of all of 
Svevo’s novelistic characters. Besides revisiting the work of these scholars, Maxia also 
examines crucial chapters of Svevo’s biography, including the author’s conversion to 
Christianity and baptism, and the many reference to the anti-Semitism of his times that 
are contained in his epistolary. 

The last two essays of this collection are dedicated to the work of Primo Levi. 
Alberto Cavaglion’s “Tre note per Se questo é un uomo” discusses Levi’s debt to 
Dostoevskij’s Memorie di una casa morta, a work that might have provided Levi with a 
structural model to describe totalitarian regimes. The last essay, Angela Guiso’s “Tra vita 
e letteratura: la dialettica combinatoria di Primo Levi,” contends that in a number of 
Levi’s works, including Se questo é un uomo, La tregua, Se non ora quando?, I sommersi 
e i salvati, and La chiave a stella, the combination of different elements produces a 
hybrid capable of annulling difference. However, the creativity of this combinatory 
dialectic is put to an end in the descriptions of the concentration camps, where the hybrid 
is subject to a reductio ad unum that tragically erases the many colors of being. 

As I have noted above, the organization of this volume remains rather disappointing. 
The introduction does little to clarify the organizing principle behind its tri-partite 
structure, while the content of the first section is disorienting to the reader as it includes 
discussions that range from philosophical reflections and bibliographic accounts to 
chapters of micro-histories. However, it is this reader’s opinion that many of the essays 
anthologized in L ’ombra lunga dell’esilio are, in and by themselves, worthy contributions 
to current studies on the Jewish diaspora. 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


John Gatt-Rutter, ed. Studi d’italianistica nell’Africa Australe: Italian Studies in 
Southern Africa. Special Issue on Life Writing / Scrivere l’autobiografia. Vol. 15, 2 
(2002). Pp. XIV + 75. 

This slim volume of Studi d’italianistica, the journal published bi-annually by the 
Association of Professional Italianists / Associazione professori d’italiano in Southern 
Africa, includes four of the ten essays presented on life-writing at a conference, The 
Importance of Italy, held at the Australian National University at Canberra in 2001 and 
sponsored by the Humanities Research Council at the Australia National University in 
Canberra. Autobiographical criticism in Italy has a different focus from what is called 
“life-writing” in Anglo-American circles. In his preface, guest editor John Gatt-Rutter 
writes that the interest in life-writing in French and Anglo-American critical circles 
“extends, refines and problematizes the theoretical positions” proposed by structuralism, 
post-structuralism, semiotics and even New Criticism, especially those concerning the 
crisis of the subject and the impossibility of individual agency (x). The papers in this 


572 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


volume, however different, all focus on the construction of subjectivity through the 
interaction of fact and fiction, reality and invention in literary autobiography (xii). Two 
out of the four essays treat works by women writers. 

Autobiography is often described as an impossible genre since the desire for the 
author to represent a true self is undercut by a variety of forces, most notably the medium 
of narration itself. The authors of the two essays concerned with texts written by men 
seek new ways to argue for the possibility of authorial self-construction and meaning 
rather than for their demise. Gatt-Rutter, in “Truth, Fact, Fiction, Lies: Italo Svevo’s 
Search for the Subject,” argues that if Zeno’s fictive “I” is seen as a speaking position, 
Svevo’s fictional autobiography, La coscienza di Zeno, can be read as a statement of his 
pacifist leanings. And although Heidi Malek reads Luigi Malerba’s Diario di un 
sognatore as an illustration of the fallacy of Philippe LeJeune’s autobiographical pact, 
since veracity will always be undone by literary structure, she argues that fiction 
ultimately enables Malerba to define himself through the trope of irony and define his 
diary as a writer’s diary (64). 

Critical theory on life-writing has received much impetus from feminist criticism, 
which strives to reevaluate the relationship of autobiographical fact to fiction in women’s 
writings. The two essays here focus on how two very different types of Italian women use 
fictional techniques to dramatize their struggle to become writers. Mirna Cicioni and 
Susan Walker analyze the evolution of the “autobiographical construct” (6) in the 
writings of Brunella Gasperini, the pen name of Bianca Robecchi Gasperini. Gasperini 
wrote advice columns for two women’s weekly magazines from 1952 to 1979, as well as 
formulaic short stories and novels whose stereotypical characters bore more than a casual 
resemblance to herself and her family. Her columns and humorous life writing were, by 
her own admission, “anesthetized,” that is, devoid of political or social intent. In her later 
fictional autobiography, Una donna e gli altri animali (1979), as an older woman, she 
speaks out for divorce and abortion and protests the ridicule and disdain she and other 
women writers have had to endure. The essay includes interesting information on what 
women were writing and reading in postwar years preceding second-wave feminism. 
Cicioni and Walker themselves suggest that Gasperini’s autobiographical novel is now 
recognizable as a forerunner to the more obviously feminist autobiographical writings 
which began to emerge in Italy several years later, such as Clara Sereni’s 
Casalinghitudine, Fabrizia Ramondino’s A/thénopis, Marina Jarre’s I padri lontani, and 
Luisa Passerini’s Autoritratto di gruppo. Susanna Scarparo’s essay deploys more recent 
feminist scholarship on life-writing to read Anna Banti’s Artemisia as a feminist 
biography, since it exemplifies Banti’s choice to write biography as an “act of friendship” 
(78). This theoretical strategy results in the process of self-invention and subverts the 
erasure of the woman writer from history and literary tradition. Banti’s approach allows 
for two stories to be written, that of the biographer and that of the subject (73). 

Although this volume is not meant to be the definitive statement on the issue of life- 
writing in Italian studies, all the contributors research and teach outside of Italy and are 
writing for an international audience. Thus, more care needed to be taken in the editing 
process. Gatt-Rutter’s preface and article are marred by numerous misspellings, run-on 
sentences, and incorrect quotations. Gatt-Rutter’s essay lacks a final reference section, 
but he translates all quotes into English whereas the other contributors do not. This casual 
presentation and the fact that some of the more recent and most prominent critics of life- 


573 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


writing are not even mentioned undercut the seriousness of this collaborative 
collaborative effort to introduce a new critical perspective into Italian studies. 
Carol Lazzaro-Weis, University of Missouri, Columbia 


Frank Burke and Marguerite R. Waller, eds. Federico Fellini: Contemporary 
Perspectives. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2002. 

With this collection of eleven essays, the large majority published here for the first time, 
editors Burke and Waller intend to address a persistent decline in critical responses to 
Fellini’s films by bringing forward new scholarship that employs contemporary critical 
theories. The justification advanced by the editors for adopting semiotic, psychoanalytic, 
gender analysis or deconstructionist methods, as do the essays collected here, is not only 
that such approaches offer fresh insights into Fellini’s films, but also that the filmmaker 
himself used cinema to critique systems of signification (viii). Indeed, the most 
successful of these essays do not treat Fellini as the unwitting subject of post-structuralist 
critique but as a co-conspirator, who, especially in his later works, acknowledges that the 
meanings of images and words are highly contingent. Fellini’s films frustrate 
conventional analyses, Waller argues in the volume’s introduction, precisely because his 
characters “tend not to arrive at any sort of recognition or closure” (6). As a group, the 
collected essays prove the book’s general premise that the best Fellini criticism opens up 
his work, instead of trying to contain it within tight hermeneutic circles. The filmmaker 
would likely have endorsed this idea, having said, “I think it is immoral [...] to tell a 
story that has a conclusion because you cut out the audience the moment you present a 
solution on the screen” (6). 

In a compelling 1989 essay, revised and reprinted here, Burke offered one of the 
earliest postmodern analyses of Fellini’s body of work, noting a shift “along a 
reality/representation/signification continuum, moving from neorealism to modernist 
questioning of representation (e.g., 8/2), then to postmodern transformation of the real 
and the representable into pure sign (e.g., Fellini's Casanova)” (27). In films like 
Amarcord and The Orchestra Rehearsal, both made in the 1970s, artistic expression 
gives way to an interest in “the operation of cultural codes. The representer is indeed 
effaced, and ‘artists’ become mere products of cultural signification” (34). If Burke’s 
scheme is largely on target, and I think it is, we can understand why critics unarmed with 
post-structuralist methods have had relatively little to say about the second half of 
Fellini’s career, and why the cutting-edge contributors to this volume focus almost 
completely on films made after 1968. 

Following Burke, several essays here note that Fellini’s later films dwell on the 
effacement of the theatrical arts in the wake of technologies like cinema and television. In 
her analysis of J clowns, Helen Stoddart asserts that, in Fellini’s hands, cinema resembles 
the circus but also assists in its demise (55, 61). (Film, as Walter Benjamin had it, is a 
mechanical reproduction whose very existence brings an end to live performance.) “What 
remains of the old circuses?” Fellini asks in a voice-over. “Subtle wasted traces” (57). J 
clowns documents the circus but, by ending with an elaborate funeral for a clown, also 
lays it to rest (60). Endings and spent art forms are also of primary concern in 
Christopher Sharrett’s analysis of the short horror film, Toby Dammit, in which the 
protagonist is a washed-up Shakespearean actor “relegated to genre films” (126). While 
Sharrett may not convince readers that the film “is tinged by [Fellini’s] sense of anguish 


574 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


over the limits [i.e. the end] of humanism” (133), he is persuasive in arguing that Toby 
Dammit marks a turn toward the postmodern as it parodies the exhausted stock genres of 
the film industry, such as westerns and action films, and even Fellini’s previous works. In 
her rich reading of Ginger and Fred, Millicent Marcus explains how two apparently 
disparate plots, “the bittersweet romance of a pair of aged vaudeville dancers” and a 
“satire of postmodern image culture” (169), combine to illustrate the disconcerting shift 
from referentiality to simulation as both real performance and the golden age of cinema 
give way to the vapid world of television. Marcus locates the film within 1980s Italy, 
when, for the first time, private channels were allowed to compete with the state-owned 
ones (174). Nostalgic for movies of the past, and his past life in the business, Fellini is 
nonetheless aware of “his own participation in postmodern cultural practices” in that 
“cinema is also a media of simulation [...] at many removes from any ‘objective reality’” 
(178). 

Several essays here offer subtle analyses of Fellini’s preoccupation with sexual 
fantasies and the nature of gender roles. Virginia Picchietti argues persuasively that The 
White Sheik “underscores the performative nature of gender” (102). While 1950s Italian 
society, as embodied in the Catholic Church, expected women to play the role of dutiful 
wife, their desire for romance and sensuality could find a benign outlet in pop culture 
products like low-brow fotoromanzi. By charting his female protagonist’s comical and 
quixotic attempt to actually enter into her fotoromanzo-fed harem girl fantasy, 
momentarily destabilizing social norms, Fellini begins to deconstruct the apparent binary 
wife/courtesan and show that both roles are a part of the same system designed to confine 
women. William Van Watson’s provocative essay argues that Fellini resists Lacan’s 
three-stage process of subject formation. In his films, the Lacanian symbolic order, which 
amounts to a phallic repudiation of the mother, is always under “the siege of maternal 
plenitude in the form of the overwhelming breasts and buttocks of his female characters” 
(67). As “Fellini frustrates phallic linearity’ (75) with winding tracking shots, 
labyrinthine staging, and atemporal narrative structures, he repeatedly portrays directors 
as characters, in films like 8% and Jntervista, who “prove themselves uniformly incapable 
of having authority over [...] anything” (76). 

In her intelligent analysis of Fellini’s last two films, Aine O’Healey argues that La 
voce della luna centers on problems arising from unchecked female desire (225-31) and 
Intervista constitutes a deconstruction of cinematic representations of femininity. At one 
point in /ntervista, a grotesquely aged and overweight Anita Ekberg, playing herself, 
views some of her sex-bomb scenes from La dolce vita. “By encapsulating both the 
sublime and the monstrous connotations of femininity in the figure(s) of Ekberg, Fellini 
is exposing the motivations and effects of patriarchal representation, and showing how 
the desire to appropriate or fetishize and the tendency to reject or debase coexist in 
masculinist constructions of femininity” (219). /ntervista is, in part, the story of a director 
(played by Fellini) who is trying in vain to cast an actress for the role of the voluptuous 
Brunelda for an adaptation of Kafka’s unfinished novel, Amerika. Brunelda, O’ Healey 
remarks, is “a character that Fellini might have invented himself’ (216), and it is 
precisely the unexpected similarities between Kafka and Fellini that occupy another essay 
in this book, Carlo Testa’s analysis of /ntervista. A postmodern awareness of the 
impossibility of closure seems to link Kafka and Fellini-as-director in that neither one 
realizes a completed project, instead leaving behind only a semi-hollow shell. 


575 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Two essays here explore how Amarcord critiques Fascism. For Dorothée Bonnigal, 
Fellini’s story about growing up in Fascist Italy means to show that Fascism was the most 
adolescent form of politics conceivable. Cosetta Gaudenzi’s discussion of linguistic 
strategies in Amarcord is a fine contribution in this collection of essays in English, 
offering a sophisticated reading of the interplay of Romagnolo dialect and standard 
Italian. Gaudenzi shows that the film’s heteroglossia is “politically subversive” (160), 
and that the Rimini accent and dialect are both sources of humor and forms of resistance 
to Fascism. 

Finally, in her analysis of La dolce vita, Waller argues that autobiography and 
memory are no more important in understanding the film than the semiotics of cinema. 
Fellini’s films reflect Italian society but not so much by means of mimesis; rather they 
deploy the logic of cinema, which “works toward fragmentation and separation, leaving 
new syntheses and unifications to the spectators to perform” (116). While Fellini has 
been dismissed for not usefully critiquing his historical and cultural moment and for 
being self-indulgent, Waller and the other scholars here have deployed post-structuralist 
methods to show that his work has never been more central to cinema studies than it is 
now. 

This useful, well-conceived book is supplemented by a brief chronology of Fellini’s 
life, a filmography, twelve still photographs from his films, and four marvelous pre- 
production sketches executed by the filmmaker. 


Jonathan Druker, ///inois State University 


Graziella Parati and Ben Lawton, eds. Italian Cultural Studies. Boca Raton, FL: 
Bordighera, 2001. Pp. xxii+250. 

The fifteen essays in this collection, especially in the second part, “Practicing Italian 
Cultural Studies,” cater to some very varied tastes, from Randolph’s “Donatello’s Bronze 
David: Politics and the Homosocial Gaze” (91-110), via Hill’s “The Image of the ‘Italian 
Family’ in Blasetti’s 1/860” (141-57) — a metaphor excavated with great acuity, but 
whose resonances far exceed this publication’s scope — to Hester’s “Traveling Italians 
and the Grand Tour Culture of the Seventeenth Century” (111-26). Closer to the present, 
Orton’s “The Case of Mario Moretti” (188-200) and Orlandi’s “Mental Illness Before and 
After the Closing of the Insane Asylums in Italy: As Witnessed in the Writings of Lia 
Traverso and Augusta F.” (220-36) stage and test their subjects’ claims to contest 
collective memory. One theme recurring in various semantic and historical registers is, 
therefore, that of interventionist re-interpretation; but it is nowhere formulated as such, 
given the volume’s general commitment to theorizing Italian Cultural Studies. Part 2 is 
only rather arbitrarily separated from Part | (“Theoretical and General Observations”), 
while the whole records something the editors somewhat programmatically call “the first 
Italian Cultural Studies conference held at Dartmouth College, October 1999” (iii). 

The project is partly a matter of registering current interactions of the micro- and 
macro-politics and -economics of education and scholarship with national, trans-national, 
and sub-national identifications (including professional ones at all three levels), and their 
impact on received practices of literary and historical study. Not surprisingly, 
contributors are more enthused by this scenario (if sometimes cautiously so) than many 
whose interventions they report. For instance, Galli Stampino reviews recent North 
American, Italian, and German discussions of Italian Studies’ difficulties with criteria of 


576 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


educational need, student demand, and graduate employability (“What We Talk About 
When We Talk About [Italian] Cultural Studies” 27-51), before welcoming, as signs of 
increasing intellectual scope and social inclusiveness, the continuing erosion of the 
literary canon’s authority and of the monolithic national identity it has embodied since 
the Risorgimento. Correlative with discussions of this type are the pedagogical 
commitments, respectively, to the extension of print and cultural literacies in Italy and the 
USA, expressed in Carletti’s “The Literary (Super)Market in Italy” (127-39) and 
Lombardi’s “Teaching Italian Cultural Studies at Smith College” (172-87). West, 
however, surveys territory overlapping Galli Stampino’s before arguing for a more 
cautious evolution of disciplinary practice (“The Place of Literature in Italian Cultural 
Studies” 12-26). 

Yet the volume’s overall effect is to question it with an incisiveness unparalleled in 
recent, comparable volumes, such as: Forgacs/Lumley, /talian Cultural Studies: An 
Introduction (Oxford UP, 1996); Allen/Russo, Revisioning Italy: National Identity and 
Global Culture (Minnesota, 1997); Annali d'Italianistica 16 (1998), whose title Italian 
Cultural Studies is shared by this volume edited by Parati/Lawson; Bedani/Haddock, The 
Politics of Italian National Identity (Wales, 2000); and Baranski/West, Modern Italian 
Culture (Cambridge UP, 2001). These range among seeming indifference to the questions 
posed by Parati/Lawson (Bedani/Haddock), resistance to them (in Baranski’s 
introduction), and confidence they are effectively answered by a characteristically North 
American interdisciplinarity, densely but unevenly theorized, and supplemented by 
explicit commitments to identity politics (Allen/Russo). Contributors to Forgacs/Lumley 
generally position themselves within single (predominantly social-scientific) disciplines 
sanctioned by Italian- as well as English-language academic culture, providing overviews 
or internal critiques at levels of expertise sufficient to escape the question of Cultural 
Studies’ emergence in the latter rather than the former (which the editors tackle, more 
descriptively than prescriptively, in their brief introduction). But theirs, too, is already an 
eloquently oblique testimony to the question now brought centre-stage by the theoretical 
or practical sense of several individual contributions, and by Parati’s introduction (close 
in temper to Allen/Russo though it is). 

Contributors’ single most frequent reference to Cultural Studies internationally is to 
Grossberg et al., Cultural Studies (Routledge, 1992); but even in abstraction from the 
huge literature of which it collects a few fragments, this presents too complex a body of 
material to be readily harnessed to the problem, and the project responding to it, 
canvassed in Parati/Lawson. Grossberg et al.’s very range effectively dissipates the force 
of the authoritative reminder Stuart Hall gives in its pages, that “cultural studies ‘can’t 
just be any old thing,’” here quoted in Kacandes, “What is at Stake in Doing Cultural 
Studies” (10). By contrast with this impasse, Bouchard’s critical engagement with 
Jameson’s Postmodernism (on the basis of work by Eco, Hall, and McRobbie) is in some 
ways more significant (“The Phenomenon Boccelli: Rethinking Italian Cultural Identity” 
158-71), probing an American classic for its perhaps disabling debts to the Frankfurt 
School. Yet Parati/Lawson finds its most direct antecedents in Dombroski’s “Forward” 
(Annali 16, 11-14), and Barlera’s “Towards a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian 
Cultural Studies” (Annali 16, 15-29), whose selection of Gramsci as a key precursor is 
here challenged (as an anachronism) by one contributor to part 2 (Dainotto, “The 
Importance of Being Sicilian” 205), but unanimously endorsed (by five) in Part 1. 


577 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


This is an improbable answer to the questions Parati/Lawson raises, if only because 
the problem of reductiveness in sociological interpretation and explanation, diagnosed in 
Jameson by Bouchard, has already been encountered by English-language Cultural 
Studies in its negotiations with Gramsci himself. The methodological antidote proposed 
in Easthope’s Literary into Cultural Studies (Routledge, 1992), prioritizing differential 
textual analyses of élite and popular culture over sociological contextualizations led by 
their results, is properly subject to caveat and supplementation, partly because the 
proposal has its own historical location and determinations, partly because its linguistic 
and semiotic dimension is not the most developed aspect of Easthope’s own work, and 
partly because appropriate concepts and methods would therefore need to be sought 
elsewhere. But wherever (as in the environment of the Parati/Lawton project) Cultural 
Studies is to be grafted onto a predominantly literary and linguistic, pedagogical root- 
stock rather than a social-scientific one, Easthope’s might be an effective answer to the 
substance if not the pathos of many objections to Cultural Studies reported by West, Galli 
Stampino, and Dainotto. 

Several of these objections voice outrage at the recently modish appeal of “cultural 
studies” as a slogan to (primarily American) academic administrators and policy makers, 
although many suffice in themselves to make a case for intellectual re-tooling. Yet its 
major stake, pace Kacandes, would not be in world peace, but in exploring and 
negotiating the possibilities of a (primarily) sociological understanding, broadly and 
flexibly defined. Notwithstanding the imperatives of breadth and flexibility, Parati’s very 
general introductory maxims of interdisciplinarity court just such accusations of 
dilettantism as West and Galli Stampino catalogue, however much these may be 
mortgaged to residual literary ideologies inherited from nineteenth-century nationalisms. 
For one thing, residues of this kind also haunt the collection’s preoccupation with 
Gramsci. 

Unwilling to countenance basing Italian Cultural Studies on non-indigenous 
authority, and having — somewhat abruptly, if perhaps justifiably — discounted 
Gramsci’s as well as Croce’s and Eco’s, Dainotto opts for that of Sciascia. Pireddu 
engages Gramsci at greater length (“The Anthropological Roots of Italian Cultural 
Studies” 66-88), citing John Frow’s path-breaking study of the conceptual and social 
bases of Cultural Studies (Cultural Studies and Cultural Value, Oxford UP, 1995), and 
not implausibly diagnosing a need to expand Gramsci’s conception of culture by 
reference to anthropology. Yet, even given her interpretation of Mantegazza as a thinker 
at odds with the positivism of his time, his nationality is the only visible reason for 
selecting him to represent a discipline since then transformed several times over (and 
enriched) beyond recognition. By contrast with these sallies, Buttigieg questions 
Barlera’s autarkic syncretism: “[...] it might be tempting to say that cultural studies [...] 
is capacious enough to include both Croce and Gramsci; but by doing so one would 
render the entire field incoherent,” since “Croce figures so prominently in Gramsci’s 
writings [...] as an object of study and as a target of critique, not as an exemplary figure” 
(“Gramsci’s ‘Return to De Sanctis’” 59). Yet, especially once Cultural Studies turns its 
attention to Italy, Gramsci’s solutions themselves morph into problems for a variety of 
reasons. 

Although Gramsci’s is the major Italian contribution to the Marxist theory of culture 
and society, it furnishes only a limited range of concepts and procedures relative to other 
national and political traditions, while the institutional and disciplinary structures of 


578 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Italian academic culture have not allowed it to capitalize on his legacy, or integrate it 
with other sociological and anthropological repertoires, in any way comparable to those 
initiated by Tom Nairn and Raymond Williams. This is not the place to chart the 
bibliography or ramifications of such matters, save to note how much may be learned 
from comparing the ground covered in Stajano’s Cultura italiana del Novecento (Laterza, 
1996) with the context and legacy of Nairn’s and Williams’s labours surveyed by Perry 
Anderson in English Questions and A Zone of Engagement (both Verso, 1992). 
Triangular comparison would then clarify the significance as well as the deficits of 
Jameson’s prodigious challenge to American academia as he found it informed by the 
combined efforts of Parsons and McCarthy: Postmodernism is in many respects already 
announced by the circumstances and terms of his earlier Marxism and Form’s preparation 
by Jameson during the Vietnam War. Whatever the administrators’ agenda (or their 
antagonists’ national and professional formation and identifications), the challenge of 
Cultural Studies is to develop, in various directions, such more recent achievements as 
Jameson’s (and Williams’s) as well as Gramsci’s. Conversely, to privilege the intellectual 
resources of a single national tradition in the twenty-first century would be to remain 
shackled into the nineteenth. 

Parati’s introduction closes on a note of aspiration to participate in analysis and 
dismemberment of the Berlusconi phenomenon, but it is hard to dissociate the latter from 
its preparation by (inter alia) Craxi, the international and domestic settlements of the 
1940s, nineteenth-century models of charismatic leadership metastasized in Italy around 
the time of First World War, and the more direct legacy of Hapsburg absolutism (and 
whatever else) to the regional structure of the Italian economy. Herein lies a 
demonstration that Italian culture is neither a bounded nor a homogeneous unity, nor yet 
an unqualified good in itself, and that the analysis envisaged requires all the intellectual 
resources of historical sociology. Yet historical explanation cannot account for the 
convulsive appeal in the present of a personality cult, a literary canon, or the nation 
symbolized in both, but yet to loosen its entrancing grip even in the environment of the 
analytical project. Italian Cultural Studies will need to conceptualize its own relation to 
psychoanalysis, systematically but critically, if its project is to be formulated. 

Jonathan Smith, Swansea University, Wales 


Flavia Brizio-Skov. Antonio Tabucchi: navigazioni in un arcipelago narrativo. 
Cosenza: Pellegrini, 2002. Pp. 257. 

Quest’ ottimo volume di Flavia Brizio-Skov dimostra che il saggio monografico rimane 
uno strumento critico essenziale. Lo sforzo di capire il percorso di uno scrittore, in questo 
caso Antonio Tabucchi, collocandolo in una pit’ ampia dinamica culturale é oggi 
indubbiamente pit arduo perché deve fare i conti con la critica radicale dei propri 
fondamenti teorici, tra i quali il concetto stesso di autore. E tuttavia, proprio questo 
continuo richiamo a riflettere sulle proprie presupposizioni si rivela, nel saggio di Brizio- 
Skov, un punto di forza. II risultato é un libro solidissimo: preciso, minuzioso, sensibile e 
soprattutto attento a proporre linee interpretative sempre lucide e stimolanti ma mai 
definitive o chiuse. Un saggio che promuove il dialogo, preparando il lettore ad un 
ascolto partecipe dei testi tabucchiani che ¢ momento indispensabile in ogni serio 
confronto. 


579 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Il libro si apre con un “Prologo” a cui fanno seguito sette capitoli, che affrontano in 
ordine cronologico le opere maggiori pubblicate da Tabucchi fino al 2000, ed una 
“Rassegna della critica”. Un’esauriente bibliografia conclude il volume. I] “Prologo” ha 
due compiti essenziali: quello di presentare i pil importanti interventi critici, largamente 
positivi, sull’opera di Tabucchi, e quello di esplicitare |’orientamento teorico e le grandi 
linee d’interpretazione proposte nel saggio. Brizio-Skov affronta qui la questione della 
morte dell’autore, e sostiene che il testo deve “sempre essere visto come espressione 
emblematica di un particolare universo che é tipico di un certo autore” (16). E 
significativo che questa presa di posizione teorica ¢ immediatamente contestualizzata 
dall’osservazione empirica che l’accompagna: nel caso di Tabucchi parlare della morte 
dell’autore “sarebbe improponibile” (15) dato che lo scrittore mette se stesso e la propria 
funzione esplicitamente in scena in molte delle sue opere. Brizio-Skov conclude 
l’introduzione segnalando le quattro ipotesi o costanti che guideranno la sua lettura 
dell’opera di Tabucchi: il rapporto tra storia e letteratura, i problemi dell’io, la tendenza a 
vedere il mondo “dal rovescio”, il problema della giustizia. 

Il metodo di Brizio-Skov é limpido: ognuno dei sette capitoli mette in luce la 
dominante tematico-stilistica del testo o del gruppo di testi preso in cosiderazione. Come 
logico, ciascuna di queste dominanti risulta essere una particolare configurazione delle 
quattro costanti presentate nel “Prologo”. Nei primi due capitoli, che si occupano 
rispettivamente di Piazza d’Italia ed Il piccolo naviglio, al centro dell’attenzione é il 
rapporto tra letteratura e storia. Secondo Brizio-Skov, nel suo primo romanzo Tabucchi 
vuole dimostrare |a pluridimensionalita della storia che emerge quando permettiamo a 
voci marginalizzate di farsi sentire (la storia dei perdenti) e quando accettiamo di dare 
valore storico anche a narrazioni fantastiche eppure veritiere perché esprimono con i 
mezzi culturali a disposizione dei vinti la loro contro-storia. I] discorso di Tabucchi si 
radicalizza ne II piccolo naviglio nel quale non si tratta pil semplicemente di ampliare 
l’orizzonte della storia ufficiale dando spazio ad altre storie parallele, ma piuttosto di 
denunciare la presunta “obiettivita” della storia dimostrando quanto essa sia una finzione 
che serve gli interessi di determinate classi sociali e ne garantisce il potere. La domanda 
che il lettore é costretto a porsi alla fine del romanzo é come si puo arrivare ad una 
visione giusta del passato. 

Il terzo capitolo si occupa dei racconti e romanzi brevi pubblicati da Tabucchi tra il 
1981 ed il 1991, tra i quali il pid noto ¢ Notturno indiano (1984). Brizio-Skov punta a 
dimostrare che nei testi pubblicati in questi anni Tabucchi fa sue molte delle istanze 
caratteristiche del postmodernismo letterario. In particolare, il dubbio gnoseologico, gia 
emerso nel discorso sulla storia, si allarga ora alla realta tout court assumendo una 
dimensione ontologica. Lo scrittore toscano avverte che il testo letterario pud cogliere 
“un mondo complesso, anarchico, contraddittorio” (98) solo dal rovescio, impegnandosi 
in un complesso gioco di specchi. 

La riflessione sul postmodernismo tabucchiano continua nel quarto capitolo che 
Brizio-Skov dedica interamente a Requiem. Secondo |’autrice, Tabucchi in quest’ opera 
propone al lettore un’impressionante polifonia di voci ed una_ ulteriore 
problematizzazione della frontiera tra il reale e l’immaginario. I quesiti irrisolti si 
accavallano in questo romanzo/sonata dove anche i morti parlano ma non sanno dare 
risposte. Eppure alla fine del romanzo, |’impossibilita di conoscere la verita non porta 
alla disperazione ma piuttosto ad una certa pace che conferisce alla narrazione una 
funzione quasi terapeutica. 


580 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Negli ultimi tre capitoli Brizio-Skov esamina una serie di testi che illustrano le 
crescenti preoccupazioni etico-politiche di Tabucchi. Un’attenta lettura di Sostiene 
Pereira rivela che il nocciolo duro dell’opera non é una critica scontata della dittatura 
salazariana, ma una riflessione sulla crisi del soggetto grazie alla quale Tabucchi approda 
ad una nuova visione del ruolo dell’intellettuale. Nell’analisi di La testa perduta di 
Damasceno Monteiro, \autrice dimostra come al centro del romanzo sia la lotta per la 
giustizia in un mondo sempre pit disumano. Lo scrittore affida quest’ardua lotta ad 
intellettuali che si impegnano nel nome non di grandi ideali ma di piccole verita 
faticosamente accertate e ancora piu difficilmente portate alla conoscenza di tutti. Questa 
soluzione della crisi dell’intellettuale si concretizza negli scritti pubblicati tra il 1997 e il 
2000, nei quali Tabucchi affronta esplicitamente la questione del proprio ruolo in quanto 
intellettuale italiano di fine millennio. Brizio-Skov nota che la posizione di Tabucchi 
risulta molto affine alle pit recenti riflessioni sul ruolo dell’ intellettuale (Foucault, Said), 
dando un nuovo impeto ad una questione lungamente dibattuta in Italia. Nell’ultima parte 
del capitolo l’autrice insiste sull’impatto che gli interventi di Tabucchi hanno avuto su 
alcune scottanti realta dell’Italia contemporanea. In questo modo Brizio-Skov ribadisce 
l’importanza di mantenere una rigorosa dialettica tra teoria e pratica, testo e contesto. 

La “Rassegna della critica” che conclude il volume contiene preziose indicazioni 
sugli studi su Tabucchi pubblicati in forma di libro. Particolarmente utili, soprattutto per 
gli studiosi nordamericani, mi sembrano le osservazioni sui volumi pubblicati in spagnolo 
ed in portoghese. 

In conclusione, il saggio di Brizio-Skov ¢ uno strumento utilissimo per gli studiosi 
non soltanto di Tabucchi ma anche di questioni critiche, quali il postmodernismo italiano 
ed il nuovo dibattito sul ruolo degli intellettuali, alle quali lo scrittore toscano ha dato un 
contributo considerevole. Noterei soltanto due debolezze: una certa tendenza a 
riassumere |’intreccio dei romanzi ed il mancato approfondimento di alcune delle 
problematiche pit interessanti (per esempio, il discorso sul ruolo dell’intellettuale mette 
d’accordo Gramsci, Foucault e Said un po’ frettolosamente). Anche queste, comunque, 
sono tra le prospettive aperte dall’eccellente lavoro di Brizio-Skov. 

Eugenio Bolongaro, McGill University 


Stefania Lucamante, ed. and trans. Italian Pulp Fiction. The New Narrative of the 
Giovani cannibali Writers. London: Associated UP, 2001. Pp. 219. 

Dal 1996, anno di pubblicazione di Gioventi cannibale (significativo sottotitolo: “Prima 
antologia dell’orrore estremo”), \’interesse in Italia per la narrativa scritta da giovani e 
per i giovani ha subito una seria impennata. Grazie ad astute operazioni editoriali, 
soprattutto ad opera del duo Cesari-Repetti di Einaudi, autori come, fra gli altri, Aldo 
Nove, Daniele Luttazzi, Simona Vinci e Niccolo Ammaniti si sono imposti all’attenzione 
di pubblico e critica come portavoci di nuove istanze narrative, di nuove esigenze 
espressive e del mutato Zeitgeist dell’ Italia di fine ventesimo secolo. 

Questa svolta innovativa nel panorama letterario italiano non é passata inosservata 
all’estero, nel mondo anglofono per esempio, dove, nonostante le tradizionali resistenze 
all’apertura a scrittori non di lingua inglese, alcuni nomi sono riusciti ad imporsi 
all’attenzione del pubblico, fra tutti Ammaniti. 

Le origini del fenomeno “cannibali” — 0 pulp, come viene alternativamente definito 
— con gli annessi corollari stilistici, strutturali e critici, rimangono comunque pil 


581 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


impervie ad un lettore anglofono che non abbia facile accesso alla lingua o al corpus della 
letteratura critica italiana. Uno studio sistematico della letteratura cannibale in molte 
universita in paesi di lingua inglese, per esempio, é reso difficile dalla mancanza di 
traduzioni dei testi stessi e di documenti sui principali dibattiti critici. Per questo il libro 
di Lucamante diventa un utile strumento di approccio a questo fenomeno letterario, oltre 
che culturale e sociale, a beneficio di studiosi, studenti e del pubblico in generale. 

Il volume é costituito da una collezione di saggi scritti da accademici e critici 
italiani, che coprono diversi aspetti del fenomeno “cannibali”, da quello linguistico a 
quello culturale a quello tematico. In appendice, utilissime, si possono trovare le 
traduzioni in inglese di tre dei racconti del volume Gioventi cannibale, “Seratina’, “Il 
mondo dell’amore” e “Cappuccetto Splatter”. 

Nell’introduzione, Stefania Lucamante introduce il movimento della letteratura 
cannibale italiana, situandolo in termini cronologici e culturali, identificandone le matrici 
ideologiche — localizzate soprattutto in concomitanti fenomeni culturali nordamericani 
— e tracciandone l’evoluzione in Italia, dal progetto Under 25 di Pier Vittorio Tondelli, 
alle iniziative del DAMS di Bologna, agli sforzi di Balestrini e Barilli, concretizzatisi 
soprattutto in seno a Ricercare. 

Il saggio di Pierpaolo Antonello (“Cannibalizing the Avant-Garde” 38-56) investiga 
i legami tra le avanguardie storiche (Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, Osvaldo de Andrade, 
ma anche il Dadaismo e Oppenheim), la Neoavanguardia del Gruppo 63 ed il fenomeno 
dei cannibali, chiedendosi se quest’ultimo non possa essere leggittimamente considerato 
come I’ultima avanguardia del ventesimo secolo. 

Filippo La Porta (“The Horror Picture Show and the Very Real Horrors: About the 
Italian Pulp” 57-75) esamina la galleria di orrori che popolano i racconti dei cannibali, 
chiedendosi in che rapporto questi siano con gli orrori classici della tradizione 
ottocentesca italiana — la Scapigliatura, per esempio, o gli scritti di Francesco Domenico 
Guerrazzi — se ci sia veramente innovazione 0 se non si tratti di un riciclaggio di una 
fantomatica “Arcadia dell’orrore”. La novita dei cannibali, suggerisce La Porta, sta nel 
proporci un connubio tra orrore reale ed orrore virtuale, ed in questo senso, pit che 
scrittori stricto sensu, questi autori dovrebbero essere considerati moralisti, o saggisti, o 
studiosi dei costumi. 

Il saggio di Marco Berisso, dal titolo “Linguistic Levels and Stylistic Solutions in 
the New Italian Narrative (1991-1998)” (76-97), esamina le scelte stilistiche e 
linguistiche che ricorrono nella letteratura cannibale, che viene spesso accusata di usare 
codici espressivi subculturali, soffermandosi sull’uso esteso di lemmi coprolalici e 
pornolalici ma anche di registri linguistici provenienti dalla letteratura cosiddetta 
“aulica”. Berisso prende in considerazione vari autori, studiandone le diverse strategie 
espressive ed auspica futuri studi che facciano ulteriore luce su questa forma linguistica 
ibrida che sta prendendo corpo nella letteratura italiana. 

In “Everyday Consumerism and Pornography ‘Above the Pulp Line’” (98-134), 
Stefania Lucamante esamina il tema della sessualita, della pornografia e del desiderio 
espresso dalle autrici parte del movimento dei cannibali. Considerando in particolare la 
trilogia di Isabella Santacroce (Fluo, Destroy e Luminal), Lucamante osserva come 
queste scrittrici sfidino il canone letterario, dando voce ad una liberta espressiva inedita 
nel panorama letterario femminile italiano e presentando scenari narrativi precipuamente 
femminili. 


582 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Il saggio di Gian Paolo Renello, “The Mediatic Body of the Cannibale Literature” 
(135-160), conclude |’antologia critica con un esame del ruolo nella letteratura italiana 
degli scrittori cannibali, proponendo la tesi dell’incomparabilita tra letteratura cannibale 
italiana e tratti stilistici pu/p. Partendo dall’analisi di due delle storie tradotte per il 
volume, “Seratina’” di Niccolo Ammaniti e “II mondo dell’amore” di Aldo Nove, Renello 
traccia gli elementi tematici distintivi della letteratura cannibale e si sofferma su 
un’analisi approfondita del topos del corpo, la sua rappresentazione mediatica, la 
manipolazione della sua immagine e la sua dissoluzione. 

A chiusura del volume sono le traduzioni di tre racconti dall’antologia Gioventi 
cannibale. Prima antologia dell’orrore estremo: “Seratina” di Ammaniti e Brancaccio, 
“Tl mondo dell’amore” di Nove e “Cappuccetto Splatter” di Luttazzi. Pur riproducendo 
registri ed espressioni in un impeccabile equivalente angloamericano, le traduzioni 
mantengono |’autenticita del contesto originale, introducendo, quando necessario, note 
esplicative a pie’ di pagina ad uso e beneficio del lettore (come per esempio i riferimenti 
a fenomeni mediatici italiani di grosso richiamo, o a fenomeni culturali). 

Nel complesso il volume é un utile strumento per chi si voglia avvicinare ad uno dei 
fenomeni pit discussi e contestati della storia letteraria italiana degli ultimi anni, e rende 
questo avvicinamento pit agevole per il pubblico anglofono. 

Nicoletta Di Ciolla McGowan, Manchester MetropolitanUniversity 


Franco Ricci. Painting with Words, Writing with Pictures: Word and Image in the 
Work of Italo Calvino. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2001. Pp. 344. 

It is no accident that this important book by Franco Ricci has as its epigraph a poem by 
Howard Nemerov taken from The Painter Dreaming in the Scholar's House. The poem is 
about language, images, the world and the cognitive function of literature. It clearly states 
that the knowledge in question is not of the phenomenological world but of the 
“mindfulness that is in things”. In the house of the artist happiness shines “through 
darkest themes” when “thought is made visible” (v). Here, literature is called upon to 
transform invisibility into visibility and absentness into presence: a heavy burden indeed. 
In fact, an impossible task unless literature could convincingly prove that it has found the 
language to say the unsayable and to present into visibility that which is not presentable. 
If only literature could present God and show it to us, negativity and the irreducible space 
that negativity has had in Western thought and art would disappear. Yet this remains 
unachievable, but not because literature cannot say negativity but because it cannot utter 
the wholeness of a word that lies at the threshold between affability and ineffability. The 
zone of indistinction disorients literature. 

The issues of visibility and sayability are at the centre of Calvino’s work, as the 
book of Ricci persuasively demonstrates and argues through a robust analysis of 
Calvino’s fiction and theoretical writings. Calvino’s interest in sight is not new or 
unrecorded in critical studies of the author of Pa/omar. Calvino himself is rather explicit 
on this point as evidenced by a series of recurrent and significant reflections on 
iconography and visibility interspersed throughout his theoretical writing, whose 
emblematic apex is the lecture “Visibilita” in Lezioni americane. Yet Ricci’s book lends 
this critical approach a roundness and systematisation, a breadth of reference and literary 
and artistic contextualization that enrich and take further the knowledge of Calvino’s 
ekphrastic strategy. As Ricci states, “the art of /ooking [is] central to [Calvino’s] poetics 


583 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


of writing” (4) to the extent that “for Calvino, thinking began at the eye” (8). What stands 
out in these two brief quotations is the notion of “art” in relation to “looking,” and the 
unique relation between thinking and seeing. What about language? This question is 
precisely what Ricci’s book raises, demonstrating the indissolubly osmotic relationship 
between language and images and their mutually enriching exchange. Calvino was a 
writer, not a painter. He used a narrative bound to time and not to space; and yet the way 
in which he looked at the world and the way in which he (re)presented thought, as Ricci 
maintains, is similar to that of a painter. Visibility is the hallmark of a writer who writes 
as if he were filling the canvas with stroke after stroke. It is not by accident that Calvino 
suggested an artistic metaphor for the search for knowledge, which he equated with 
removing layers and layers of colours from the canvas. This hermeneutic strategy echoes 
the interpretative approach indicated by Ernst Gombrich on viewing a picture. The 
Austrian art historian, whose work Calvino knew well, invited people to retrace the 
strokes of the artist backwards to the whiteness of the beginning. It is in the whiteness of 
the surface that Calvino located knowledge: in the pure, unadulterated zone of a personal 
as well as cosmic, yet inexpressible encounter with existence. 

The visibility that cannot be said or painted is destined to remain invisible. What art 
or literature can do is to approach it. The irony is that in getting closer to it, art and 
literature end up obscuring and obfuscating knowledge by painting or writing over it. 
Therefore, the great task of the writer and the painter is not so much that of writing or 
painting but of undoing that very writing and painting. It is in this sense that Calvino’s 
later production, the one that records an unparalleled homology with painting, as Ricci 
emphasises, can be read as a fastidious adding and scraping, covering and uncovering, 
doing and undoing. 

Calvino knew that literature sets itself impossible tasks. But this is precisely the 
essence, the very nature of literature, whose search for knowledge is unremitting, 
systematic, and rigorous. This knowledge passes through vision ([{Calvino’s characters] 
“use vision as a vehicle of knowledge” 49), and is informed by vision to the extent that 
words are there to translate what the eye sees, to find a form and a structure for the 
images that are impressed upon the retina, be they actual or mental. As tradition would 
have it, literature, like any other translation, falls short of the original by deviating, 
adding unnecessarily, banalizing. In short, literature is bound to fail for the very reason 
that it produces ever so many simulacra which in the end appear to take us even further 
away from the original. Yet Calvino’s position, and the lesson that can be learned from 
his writing, is much more problematic than that, although marked by a continuous 
hesitation between the polarizing opposition “original/ translation” alluded to here. This 
oscillation takes different shapes and forms, such as the opposing dynamics inherent in 
his writing. “When reading Calvino,” remarks Ricci, “one senses a constant craving for a 
spatial fix subtended by a yearning for the exhilaration of temporal flow: the ebb and 
flow between these delicate boundaries produces the illusion of animation” (52); the 
typical ineptitude of Calvino’s characters — “Always inept, usually introverted” (38) —, 
which is also, I think, a strong cipher of the problematic relationship between Calvino 
and language; and ultimately Calvino’s metaphysical frustration and disappointment, 
which, if on the one hand make him despair about the “potential of the written word” 
(24), on the other push him even further to find “fulfilment within the textual experience” 
(24). 


584 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Language might be inadequate, and literature might well be no more than a “bad” 
translation, and yet they remain the only tools that Calvino possesses to make sense of an 
otherwise chaotic universe. “Calvino’s career can be described as an anxious pro-literary 
battle against chaos,” Elizabeth Dipple has remarked in a justly famous passage quoted 
by Ricci (82). The chaos Calvino “battles” against is nothing other than the zone of 
indistinction between sayability and unsayability that is also the origin of everything, the 
face and the word of God: ultimately, the pure image of Wholeness that remains utterly 
unstructured and unformed. This chaos is made up of images without visibility, images 
defying linguistic connotations: myriads of images connecting and parting, intersecting 
and separating in a pattern whose meaning is the impossibility of expressible meanings. It 
is the chaos Jorge-Luis Borges attempted to present in the “Aleph”; it is the aleph, the 
first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, which is simultaneously soundless and comprising all 
sounds. This, I believe, is the image that Calvino confronted all the time, and whose 
“infinite” chaos he attempted to comprehend through his writing. 

The ordering and clarifying purpose of literature is a theme underpinning literary 
and artistic discourse as well as philosophical writings. In fact, it is a preoccupation 
widely shared in the contemporary Western debates on the relationship between 
literature, phenomenology, and the suprasensible. It is perhaps in the work of 
hermeneuticians, such as Hans-Georg Gadamer and Paul Ricoeur, and theorists, such as 
Peter Brooks and Hayden White, that the significance of literature as a vehicle for 
making sense of the outer and the inner world we inhabit is most pre-eminent. The work 
of White is cited by Ricci in his book and, although implicitly, the similarities and 
affinities between White’s arguments and Calvino’s, especially those found in 
“Cibernetica and fantasmi,” are striking and hardly coincidental. Whereas Ricci does not 
offer a framework for a reflection on the relation between Calvino’s writing and the 
philosophical climate of the times, he explores at length related concerns as they translate 
into the works of artists such as Paul Klee and Vasilij Kandinskij. Of great interest is the 
parallelism that Ricci draws between Klee’s paintings and Calvino’s writing. In both 
Calvino and Klee, Ricci sees an artistic as well as poetic tension not so much towards 
representing the “given” as towards the presentation of what is not readily available to the 
eye. In other words, Calvino and Klee strive to put into colours and words the invisible 
existence that pullulates amongst its visible counterpart. 

The strategy applied by Calvino in his “battle against chaos” is again reminiscent of 
painting. In many of his theoretical essays, especially in Lezioni americane, Calvino 
speaks of and reflects on the notion of crystallisation. Ricci peaks this central Calvinian 
theme and emphasises its literary importance but also its iconic underpinnings: “Any 
action Calvino attempts to narrate,” Ricci claims, “has the habit of freezing itself within a 
spatial frame” (6). And later, in discussing Calvino’s interpretation of the Italian painter 
Domenico Gnoli, Ricci argues thus: “Perhaps Calvino is attracted to the works of Gnoli 
because he finds qualities that remind him of his own prose, his ideology, his vision of 
the world. Gnoli’s paintings, like Calvino’s stories, capture precise moments of vision, 
perfectly stilled moments in time. As in Palomar, it would seem that looking is the only 
authentic mode of existence. As gestures are frozen even thought becomes static, 
spatialized within precisely delineated frames of reference” (250). Crystallisation enables 
Calvino to fix something for a moment and dissect that something in its many, perhaps 
infinite details in the hope that that small something would tell him a little about the 
ungraspable Whole. But the crystallisation Calvino speaks of and utilises in his work is 


585 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


never static but always in motion, ever changing as the frame suddenly shifts in a 
continuous movement that is perhaps more reminiscent of comic books, or better still 
cinema, than painting. Ricci recognises Calvino’s particular understanding of 
crystallisation when he details the influence and importance that comics and cinema had 
in the upbringing of the young Calvino, and how they continued to remain two strong 
points of reference during his adult life. 

Personally, I found the last chapter of Ricci’s book the most stimulating and 
innovative. Ricci presents here a series of writings that Calvino composed after visiting 
exhibitions of Valerio Adami’s, Domenico Gnoli’s and Giorgio De Chirico’s work. They 
are not conventional critical studies of art works but rather pieces between fiction and 
criticism, where language attempts to follow closely the contours of colours, strokes, and 
lines and, in doing so, enters unexplored territories where the unimaginable, and therefore 
unseeable, makes brief appearances. 

Ricci’s book is an essential instrument for anybody interested in Calvino’s work as 
well as for those working in interdisciplinary and cross-cultural studies. 

Paolo Bartoloni, The University of Sydney 


Alessandro Carrera. La vita meravigliosa dei laureati in lettere. Palermo: Sellerio, 
2002. Pp. 134. 

Il motivo della scuola ha ispirato tanti libri o almeno ne ha costituito uno dei temi pit 
importanti, da Collodi a De Amicis, da Lettera ad una professoressa a Domenico 
Starnone. Trattato da prospettive e con toni differenti, la sua presa sui lettori resta 
immutata. Il recente successo di alcuni film sia per il grande schermo che per la 
televisione testimonia della perenne attualita dell’argomento. Oggi, in particolare, parlare 
della scuola significa constatarne la crisi pressoché cronica in cui versa. L’annoso 
dibattito sulla riforma dell’istruzione si é trascinato per lunghi decenni e non pare sia 
destinato a concludersi in seguito al recente riassetto dei cicli scolastici. E quasi un luogo 
comune affermare che ogni riforma o discorso sulla scuola sottende ad un’analisi della 
societa che la rispecchia o determina. In una fase di incalzante evoluzione tecnologica, 
riconfigurazione dell’economia globale, trasformazione della compagine sociale e 
demografica dell’Italia contemporanea, interrogarsi sull’universo scuola appare ancora 
pill pertinente. 

La scuola é il motivo ispiratore di questo divertimento dello scrittore lodigiano. Alla 
luce della problematica appena delineata il libro di Carrera colpisce da un lato per la 
leggerezza quasi calviniana con cui é ordito il racconto, dall’altro per l’approccio ironico 
e l’assunto etico che lo sostanzia. 

La storia si snoda agile attorno a due laureati in lettere, Renato e Rinaldo (Rino), 
accomunati da salda amicizia ma separati da diversa sorte. “Renato era professore di 
ruolo in una scuola media della pit: grande penisola del Mediterraneo; Rino invece era 
disoccupato, perché aveva passato troppo tempo a occuparsi di cose che non erano 
importanti” (11). Ma mentre Rino non pare darsi troppa pena per il suo stato di cronico 
precariato, Renato é insoddisfatto e tenta di reinventarsi una nuova occupazione nel 
campo delle argille terapeutiche su cui decide di frequentare un seminario in una citta 
distante. Nell’impossibilita di ottenere un’autorizzazione che gli consenta di compiere il 
viaggio il nostro protagonista escogita una truffa: si dara ufficialmente per malato 
chiedendo a Rino di sostituirlo nel ruolo di infermo. Questi dovra rimanere confinato 


586 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


nell’appartamento di uno stabile dove risiedono insegnanti della medesima scuola e le 
famiglie di allievi di Renato. 

Per sbarcare il lunario Rino, oltre alle occasionali supplenze, fa il correttore di bozze 
ed accetta durante la “clausura” forzata di redigere una quantita iperbolica di bigliettini 
destinati ai biscotti della fortuna ammanniti nei ristoranti cinesi. Questa occupazione é 
turbata dall’arrivo della dottoressa per la visita fiscale e successivamente da quello della 
sorella gemella, all’apparenza agente di polizia in realta spogliarellista nonché supplente 
di lettere. La comicita paradossale della doppia scena scaturisce da una serie di equivoci 
basati sulla falsa identita di Rino. Come un personaggio di un poemetto eroicomico Rino- 
Rinaldo (si noti il nome) é irretito in una trama di fulminanti estasi amorose e perfide arti 
della seduzione. In realta la presenza di Mariarosa la spogliarellista € uno scherzo 
orchestrato per il compleanno di Renato che gli amici hanno voluto festeggiare in 
maniera maliziosa. L’arrivo degli amici é il momento dell’agnizione in un “concertato di 
stupore” (49), per usare una delle tante espressioni di ascendenza operistica che 
costellano il racconto. Renato, deluso anche dalle terapie alternative, anticipa il rientro 
per trovarsi davanti al fatto compiuto. Non gli resta che tornare a scuola per tentare di 
giustificare l’assenza, consapevole del rischio di denuncia per frode che pende sul suo 
conto. 

L’ingaggio di Rino da parte del ristorante cinese da intanto la stura ad una 
rappresentazione tra surreale e teatrale dell’“invasione” dei cinesi, a meta tra Kafka ed 
effetti speciali da film di fantascienza. “II ristorante cinese aveva pil ragazzi per le 
consegne a domicilio di quanto le Poste Italiane avessero i postini [...] era sterminato 
come la Cina” (25). L’avanzata dei cinesi si rivelera un elemento intrecciato al destino 
della scuola nell’utopia-antiutopia di Carrera. 

Nella seconda meta del libro la scena si sposta sulla scuola vista nella doppia 
dimensione di luogo fisico e di istituzione. Il capo d’istituto é una preside di mezza eta 
autocratica eppure sensibile alle delicate gioie del mondo vegetale come ai dardi di 
Cupido. L’autorita del personaggio é stemperata dalla nota piu gentile di azalee, 
pimpinelle e quant’altro. Carrera mostra una chiara predilezione per la tecnica del 
catalogo, sia esso bestiario, erbario o simili, e per il puro valore fonico dei termini che lo 
compongono. 

La preside é coadiuvata da uno stuolo di comprimari: dal personale di segreteria, 
comicamente associato ad “una famiglia disfunzionale” (102), alla minuscola bidella, a 
Carmelo “la bestia”, il pid anziano degli ausiliari, grottesca creatura che ricorda i bizzarri 
e inquietanti personaggi del Processo kafkiano. Anche gli alunni appaiono come esseri di 
un mondo scomparso, perfettamente consapevoli di come vanno le cose nella scuola, 
vittime del sistema ed aguzzini allo stesso tempo, come quando prendono sadico diletto 
nel mettere in difficolta gli sprovveduti supplenti. 

Le trovate e gli sviluppi riservati nell’ultima parte del libro sono giocati all’insegna 
di un’ironia irrefrenabile di sapore quasi swiftiano. La preside ha “perdonato” Renato 
travolta da un empito di passione amorosa. Rino riceve da Carmelo |’ingiunzione di fare 
da supplente. Ma la scuola sta per crollare sotto i colpi ineluttabili delle ruspe del 
ristorante, acre metafora della crisi dell’istruzione pubblica e della paventata (da molti) 
privatizzazione. Rino é additato dai suoi alunni occasionali come salvatore della scuola 
secondo una misteriosa profezia, Renato dovra sfidare |’ “imperatore della Cina” in una 
tenzone di indovinelli modellata sulla scena degli enigmi della pucciniana Turandot. 


587 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


L’affondo assestato alla scuola come istituzione si serve di immagini paradossali che 
ne sottolineano |’elefantiasi burocratica ed il carattere anonimo, imperscrutabile 
dell’apparato centrale. Alla fine “la scuola non era crollata, non era salva e non era 
condannata” (130) ed il libro si chiude in un’aura favolistica che non contraddice 
l’ambientazione realistica della vicenda. La critica alla vetusta di certe pratiche didattiche 
raggiunge il suo acme con il “Muro della ricerca” che, come in uno dei tanti “stupidari” 
compilati con dovizia di esempi negli ultimi anni in Italia, rivela gli standard non 
esaltanti dell’ istruzione nazionale. 

I laureati in lettere sono visti come una strana categoria (ancora una volta vien fatto 
di pensare a un certo Flaubert e a Swift), prodotto della scuola ed al contempo elemento 
di perpetuazione del sistema. La scuola é un po’ madre (matronale e un po’ materna é il 
personaggio della preside) ma anche matrigna. Genera i futuri laureati per trattarli poi 
come figliastri. Raramente realizza le aspirazioni di chi vi lavora, eppure resta per altri 
una meta irraggiungibile, destinati come sono a soggiornare in quello strano limbo che é 
il “precariato”’. 

Godibile per l’agile meccanismo della trama e la scoppiettante galleria dei colpi di 
scena, il racconto si avvale anche di una salda scrittura dove Carrera sfodera un florilegio 
di gustose metafore e similitudini (“La dottoressa gli sembrava di bellezza miracolosa, 
una madonna di Antonello da Messina con occhi color blu antigelo” 30) ), allitterazioni, 
rime. L’impiego di disparati registri settoriali (dal mondo della fisica e della meccanica, a 
quello della botanica, musica, meteorologia, tecnologia) assicura ulteriore varieta di stile 
pur evitando il rischio dell’esibizionismo. 

In conclusione si tratta di una prova ragguardevole che cattura |’attenzione del 
lettore dalla prima all’ultima pagina. 

Mario Inglese, University of Houston 


Enrico Palandri, La deriva romantica. Ipotesi sulla letteratura e sulla scrittura, Novara: 
Interlinea, 2002, 128 pp. 
Romanziere per formazione e temperamento, Enrico Palandri non poteva tradire il respiro 
narrativo che gli é proprio anche nel confronto con la prosa critica. L’elemento che emerge 
con maggior forza in questa sua prima raccolta di saggi (ripresi in quattro casi da 
pubblicazioni precedenti, inediti in tutti gli altri), ¢ infatti il tono conversevole, da seminario, 
o meglio, come lui stesso suggerisce nella post-fazione, da “serata platonica”. Gli insistiti 
rimandi autobiografici, la tendenza a lasciarsi guidare — pil che a dominare — i propri 
pensieri, un certo piacere della parola, rivelano come questi saggi non siano il frutto di 
un’asettica ricerca in biblioteca quanto del confronto continuo ed aperto con i propri studenti 
dell’ Universita di Londra e con i propri amici e colleghi (sul fronte della ricerca accademica 
come su quello della scrittura creativa). Ne deriva per il lettore, anche professionista, la 
riscoperta del piacere della letteratura come aspetto della realta, ancor prima che come 
disciplina specialistica, ovvero la riscoperta della letteratura come documento, oltre che 
monumento, del reale, se non come vera e propria chiave interpretativa della sua evoluzione. 
“Raccolta di ipotesi formulate identificando alcune tracce”, come lui stesso I’ha definita, 
La deriva romantica mira in particolare a “risalire dalla frammentarieta del materiale 
postmoderno ai nodi tematici di origine romantica che agiscono profondamente nelle 
dinamiche letterarie e filosofiche della contemporaneita” (123). A tale scopo Palandri 
chiarisce immediatamente nel saggio d’apertura (“II postmodernismo tra liberta e storia” 7- 


588 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


21) come il nostro tempo sia segnato dalla crisi delle identita nazionali, ovvero, pit in 
generale, del concetto stesso di storia, avvertita sempre pil’ spesso come un mero sinonimo di 
retaggi culturali troppo complessi per le esigenze di un mercato sempre pil! mobile. L’“ideale 
romantico di identita tra lingua, territorio e cultura” (10) sul quale sorsero (ma sarebbe piu 
corretto dire risorsero) nell’Ottocento le nazioni europee, rischia cosi di confondersi nella sua 
deriva ultima di inizio millennio con il nazionalismo, definito senza esitazioni “la malattia di 
quei popoli che di fronte all’integrazione globale si trovano a coltivare la propria differenza, 
diventando ‘culture della differenza’” (17). 

Di questo abbandono della storia, ovvero delle ragioni pit complesse di ogni singola 
cultura, risente anche la letteratura, in particolar modo quella che, postasi nell’orbita del 
cosiddetto post-modernismo, si é chiusa nell’autoreferenzialita consolatoria del tecnicismo, a 
costo “di perdere contatto con gli altri concreti [...] da cui e per cui nasce qualunque discorso” 
(19). 

Anche nel post-modernismo, perd, come in ogni corrente capace di caratterizzare 
un’intera epoca, “sono indubbiamente finite” — per Palandri — “anche tendenze opposte, che 
cercano una nuova definizione di storia e di politica e la reperiscono in materiali diversi; 
spuri” (20), ovvero tendenze che non hanno smesso di fare i conti con la storia, tendenze sulle 
cui tracce muovono i nove saggi al centro della raccolta. 

Il primo, Appunti a proposito di metafore (23-41, gia apparso in Come scrivere di Guacci 
e Miorelli del 1999), si sofferma sul carattere metaforico di ogni lingua, collocando la 
letteratura nello “spazio tra le parole e le cose” (24), nella loro “irriducibilita [...] a un sistema 
matematico”, “una persistenza di tutte le diverse soggettivita” (34) capace di avere il 
sopravvento sull’autore stesso e di garantire cosi ai suoi personaggi un profilo pit compiuto di 
quello cui miravano le ambizioni teoriche originarie. Al rapporto tra lingua (letteraria) e realta 
sono dedicati due altri saggi, “Lo stile necessario” (67-72) e “La soggettivita letteraria e la 
lingua madre” (73-78), mirati a loro volta a porre la creazione letteraria “in un luogo 
precedente il linguaggio” (72), in uno spazio che, prescidendo dalla propria individualita e 
contingenza specifica, consente di trattare dell’umanita tutta di ogni tempo attraverso 
individualita e contingenze meramente possibili. Il che fa della letteratura, ed in generale 
dell’arte, l’unico mezzo capace di cogliere “un profilo netto del reale, chiaro e convincente 
[...] perché non é il linguaggio stesso a consentire di cogliere cosa accade, ma é il fatto 
imitativo che, raddoppiando il reale, consente a ognuno di esprimere senza fissare 
feticisticamente le cose in una loro attualita” (77-78). 

Sul medesimo problema si sofferma anche “La distanza dal presente” (43-49), ma per 
denunciare la riluttanza a riconoscere tale ruolo alla letteratura contemporanea, ricondotta 
(ovvero ridotta) troppo spesso e con troppa facilita alla propria apparente contingenza, ovvero 
ad una natura cronachistica che non gli appartiene. 

Pur essendo centrati su specifiche esperienze letterarie — da quella leopardiana a quella 
di Tondelli, passando attraverso Nievo, Celati e Calvino — anche gli altri saggi mirano in 
ultima analisi a sottolineare il carattere prelinguistico della scrittura d’arte (cioé il suo 
appartenere ad uno spazio che precede la formulazione linguistica), a partire proprio dal suo 
rapporto con la storia, intesa come casuale realizzazione di alcune tra le infinite possibilita del 
reale. 

Questa “visione meno ordinata in cui gli individui, il caso, la fortuna hanno tanto rilievo 
da far apparire le determinazioni come accidenti e, semmai, ingerenze interpretative dello 
storico” (91), avrebbero ad esempio consentito a Nievo di elaborare il suo progetto politico di 
articolazione delle diversita in un’ottica nazionale, anziché di loro repressione in un’ottica 


589 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


nazionalistica. Parimenti, certe interpretazioni di Tondelli appaiono fuorvianti a Palandri 
perché non esitano ad “impiantare |’interpretazione di tutta |’opera” su un unico dato concreto 
della sua biografia, dimenticando che “l’equilibrio tra le aspirazioni e le illusioni da una parte 
e la biografia dall’altra pud mutare” a favore della prima (69-70). Cosi, ancora, di Calvino 
Palandri coglie e mette in evidenza la “preoccupazione costante e centrale [...] con la storia, 
che il fantastico progressivamente mette in crisi, emancipando lo scrittore dal suo contesto 
fino a farne |’interlocutore creativo piuttosto che il cronista” (85). 

L’explicit de La deriva romantica non poteva quindi essere affidato che a un saggio 
come “La betoniera e |’autogenerazione” (117-22), nel quale il confine tra prosa critica e 
d’arte diviene sempre piu labile (maggior limite, da un certo punto di vista, ma anche maggior 
pregio dall’altro, dell’intera raccolta). In questo saggio il concetto dell’autogenerazione del 
testo (ovvero del fatto che i testi crescono su se stessi a partire da un ricordo, da un frammento 
autobiografico o da un’immagine che si fissa nella mente del loro autore, assumendo spesso 
forme estranee a quelle inizialmente programmate), diviene infatti un’immagine, quella della 
betoniera, prestandosi cosi a sua volta al meccanismo autogenerativo della metafora. La 
riflessione teorica diviene cosi, almeno in parte, flusso narrativo, ricordandoci per |’ultima 
volta, e contrario, quali potenzialita critico-interpretative del reale siano connaturate alle 
creazioni letterarie. 

Paolo Rambelli, University College London 


Franco Loi. /sman. Torino: Einaudi, 2002. Pp. 125. 

Giancarlo Majorino. Gli alleati viaggiatori. Milano: Mondadori, 2001. Pp. 112. 
Giampiero Neri. Finale. Como: Dialogolibri, 2002. Pp. 10. 

Franco Loi, Giancarlo Majorino e Giampiero Neri sono tre voci poetiche fondamentali 
della contemporaneita lombarda. Con la loro scrittura, pur se in modo diverso, 
consentono un discorso critico sulla poesia milanese. Nel 1952 Luciano Anceschi aveva 
parlato di “linea lombarda’”’; in seguito, questa categoria é stata estesa fino a comprendere 
una zona geografica diventata un /ocus mentale, con Milano come centro d’irradiazione 
che ingloba idealmente |’intero milieu culturale della regione. L’ opera di questi tre poeti, 
nella varieta che li contraddistingue, dimostra questo sviluppo, mettendo in rilievo la 
coesistenza di registri stilistici diversi e di contenuti presenti che si rifanno ad alcune 
costanti: a una poetica degli oggetti in re; una decisa adesione all'istanza del reale; una 
negazione dell’io lirico; una tensione etica di origine manzoniana, in cui si riflette una 
funzione didattica della poesia di ascendenza pariniana; un forte elemento visivo; una 
marcata tendenza alla prosasticita. 

Particolare attenzione merita, in Loi, l’uso del dialetto, pur non essendo |’unico 
aspetto degno di nota. Nella sva poesia, infatti, si delinea sempre pit chiaramente il 
cammino progressivo verso una spiritualita intensa. In /sman, dove il canto dell’individuo 
diventa quello di un popolo, Loi sottolinea l’universalita dell’esperienza poetica come 
parallela all’intera esperienza umana: “Véss 6m e véss puéta... Per la sciira | del créss tra 
j Omm, despérdess nel pati, | per returna quél fi’sc de la memoria che la passiensa |’a 
sparagna nel di* (“Essere uomo e essere poeta... Per l’oscurita | del crescere tra gli 
uomini, disperdersi nel patire, | per ritornare quel fischio di memoria | che la pazienza ha 
risparmiato nel giorno” 7). Ci viene ricordato che “se scriv ‘me pienta j ung nel cor de 
Paria” (“si scrive come piantare le unghie nel cuore dell’aria” 4). La scrittura si trasla 
nella ricerca, anche linguistica, di un Dio: “La santita |’ cume la puesia, | che se pO véss 


590 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


con Diu e véss luntan, | che ’I nass de la parola I|’é puesia, | el fass parola al mund 1’é 
santita” (“La santita é come la poesia, | ché si pud essere con Dio e essere lontani, | ché il 
nascere della parola é poesia, | il farsi parola al mondo é€ santita” 91). Dio risulta un forte 
collante dell’esperienza e la sua voce chiama il poeta, il quale ammette di non essere 
sempre pronto a coglierne l’insegnamento: “Uh Diu, perdona mi del smentegass, | [...] 
perdona sto mé surd indurmentass, | che mi sunt orb nel foss de la mia rdgna | e€ i td 
sbiittun duma me fann sveliass” (“Oh Dio, perdona il mio dimenticare, | [...] perdona 
questo mio sordo addormentarmi, | ché io sono orbo nel fosso del mio male | e€ i tuoi 
spintoni soltanto mi fanno svegliare” 108). E necessario “svegliarsi”, dunque, per trovare 
consolazione nel semplice gioire del fatto di essere al mondo, attraverso la partecipazione 
attiva al creato: “Cume me pias el mund! I’aria, el so fia!” (“Come mi piace il mondo! 
l’aria, il suo fiato!” 112). 

Le tematiche esplicitamente spirituali vengono accantonate nella poesia di Giancarlo 
Majorino, dove la citta di Milano si fa protagonista assolutamente secolare, luogo in cui 
si respira quella vita in movimento che da il giusto stimolo mentale alla creazione della 
poesia. Gli alleati viaggiatori é da considerarsi tra le prove poetiche piu riuscite 
dell’autore, che espone in quest’opera la sua idea di concetticona, neologismo da lui 
coniato per indicare il crocevia di pensiero e immagine, localizzabile in un preciso 
momento temporale e spaziale: “ciascun evento é senza punteggiatura | il concetticona 
dalla giustizia mai limpido sempre assente [...]| il sopravvivere del cane feroce tra nani 
morali | il sottovivere della predata tra zampe d’uomo da lire mosse [...]| mentre l’enorme 
gatta in mille e mille placente | rifornisce getta la futura carne capitata in quel che c’e” 
(84-85). Sono versi che constatano una drammatica resa della moralita del vivere 
quotidiano, parallela a una costante produzione di carne di viventi che continua a offrire 
cibo a cruenti sacrifici futuri. Tra le caratteristiche dei concetticona spicca i] dinamismo: 
"stridulano voci e lettere di voci e ritmoipnosi concetticona a spasso” (88). La 
concetticona ha la funzione di attraversamento del reale, ad esempio attraverso la figura 
“capitata” di un asino, che immediatamente trasporta la poesia e il suo cantore in una 
zona dove “il viaggio” (dell’animale e dell’uomo) si fa parallelo finché dura |’illusione 
dell’abbondanza (qui simboleggiata dalla “crema”): “é nella cruna il viaggio dell’asino | 
[...] asino che canta cosa dice? | é nella crema il nostro viaggio pari” (49). 

Un discorso diverso viene realizzato da Giampiero Neri, in cui si ravvisa 
un’autentica vocazione lombarda, che contraddistingue la sua notevole poesia, fatta tanto 
di toni sapienziali del linguaggio che dell’evolversi della quotidianita secondo una 
nozione di poesia in re. In Finale Neri racconta una vicenda in misurate micro-scene, che 
costituiscono un compiuto nucleo narrativo. Il tema centrale, sviluppato in toni 
volutamente anti-epici, riguarda il ritorno dalla prigionia di un emigrante, nella cui figura 
viene ad identificarsi uno zio del poeta. Eccone il preciso ritratto, dai toni fortemente 
pittorici realizzati in pochi tratti: “Tornava dalla prigionia | a quella comunita di poche 
case | ormai divisa dalla guerra civile. | Si era sparsa la voce del suo arrivo | e qualcuno 
gli andava incontro | sulla salita che lo portava a casa” (4). E un nostos parallelo a quello 
archetipico di Ulisse, che torna a un paese in cui nessuno é interessato a chiedergli della 
sua esperienza di guerra ed erranza, ma solamente a fargli presente che per loro che sono 
rimasti nulla é mutato. Lui sara sempre quello che se n’é andato; non rappresenta pil 
nulla e nessuno lo ritiene abbastanza autorevole da poter rispondere alle domande dei 
giovani: “Scampato ai pericoli dell’eta sua | il vecchio bevitore viveva di pochi lavori, | 
sterrava di quando in quando | le strade di campagna. | Proprio a lui si era rivolto un 


591 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


ragazzo | per dire ‘eravamo colpevoli?’ | ma un suo compagno |’aveva spinto via | ‘cosa 
vuoi sapere, da un ubriacone’” (6). La mancata risposta qui coincide con un venir meno 
della funzione informativa del linguaggio, che costituisce uno dei temi portanti della 
scrittura di Neri. Infatti, il “vecchio ubriacone” non riuscira a dire la sua verita, perché la 
guerra civile che divide il paese non produce che una situazione di scherno. Solo la 
poesia pud alludere alla verita di una testimonianza che non puo essere detta. In Finale 
bene e male si invertono rapidamente, in scatti veloci: "Les clercs... se fan pastors... / et 
son aucizedors...” (5). Sembrano pastori, ma uccidono, scrive Neri, riportando un testo in 
provenzale antico di Peire Cardenal, tratto dalla biblioteca di famiglia, ormai dispersa. 
Riprendendo il titolo della raccolta di poesie Teatro naturale (Mondadori 1998), Neri 
conclude Finale scrivendo che il teatro, appunto, si allontana, portandosi dietro le sue 
ombre: "di quelle vaghe ombre / dei nomi cui corrispondevano / il tempo cancellava la 
memoria. / Come sassi lanciati sull’acqua / che affondano dopo breve corsa, / le figure si 
allontanavano / svanivano nell’aria trasparente” (7). 

Victoria Surliuga, Rice University 


Michéle Lagny. Luchino Visconti. Vérités d’une légende. Courbevoie: Editions 
Durante and Bibliothéque du film (BIFI), 2002. Pp. 282. 

Even if she is unknown in America, film historian Michéle Lagny ranks among some of 
the most respected film scholars in France, along with Pierre Sorlin and Jacques Aumont. 
She is professor at La Sorbonne Nouvelle III, and this is her second book in French about 
director Luchino Visconti, after a brief film analysis of Visconti’s Senso (Paris, Nathan, 
1992). She has also edited an important collection of articles on Visconti — “Visconti, 
classicisme et subversion” — for the first issue of a hard-to-find French academic 
journal, Théoréme (1990). Even today, Luchino Visconti (1906-1976) stands as one of 
the two or three most important Italian directors of the 20" century (with Rossellini and 
Fellini, about whom much has been written). However, for some reason, scholars in the 
United States seem to write more books on these celebrated Italian directors, as well as 
Antonioni and Pasolini, than on Visconti, who remains somewhat underrated. 

Compared to other contemporary artists, Italian filmmaker Luchino Visconti really 
was an aristocrat (his father was a duke), not just an uncultivated bourgeois. He was born 
in Milan and raised in a rich family; he was always interested in artists, the stage, and 
movies. As Lagny explains, Visconti is sometimes presented as a decadent artist, because 
many of his movies showed the fall and death of a man (or a family) living in a world 
itself in decline (12). At the end of his life, Visconti himself sometimes acknowledged the 
fact that he was a decadent (116). 

The text is divided in two parts. In the first half, the 14 feature films directed by 
Visconti are presented and analyzed, from Ossessione (1943) to The Innocent (1976). We 
follow how the movies were conceived, from the early projects until the shooting and 
their respective releases, with critical reception (in Italy and France only). The chapters 
also include many biographical elements about Visconti’s childhood, love affairs, 
political beliefs, his parallel work as a stage director, and his early writings as a film critic 
(1940-1943). Lagny’s theoretical approaches are multiple, mostly historical and aesthetic, 
but she also considers the political dimension and symbolic meaning. Contrary to some 
French theoreticians, she avoids pointless approaches, such as film semiotics. 


592 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


The first sections are about Visconti’s main contribution to Italian neo-realism in the 
1940s (Ossessione 1943; La Terra trema 1948). But the director seemed to transcend this 
aesthetic trend in the 50s, creating progressively a more baroque universe (Senso 1952). 
In the last (and best) chapter, Lagny highlights the influence of the three artists that 
Visconti admired most: Thomas Mann, Marcel Proust, and Richard Wagner. Maybe 
because of his aristocratic background, Visconti was also fascinated with beauty and the 
refinements of luxury, as we can see in his last films, Death in Venice (1971), Ludwig 
(1973), Conversation Piece (1974), and The Innocent (1976). 

The second half of the book contains many useful elements for scholars, such as 
excerpts of published interviews taken from many sources, and reflections by Visconti 
and people who worked with him: scriptwriter Suso Cecchi D’Amico, actor Burt 
Lancaster, actress Claudia Cardinale, and also film editor Mario Serandrei and musician 
Franco Mannino, who both collaborated closely with him on numerous projects. 
Visconti’s reflections from 1975 about the few directors he admired (Bertolucci, Bunuel, 
Bergman, but also Liliana Cavani) are revealing (128). We also find three articles on 
cinema written by Visconti in the early 1940s. There are almost a hundred clips and 
critiques about all Visconti’s shorts and feature films (159-216). These data are edited 
only from selected Italian and French sources; there are no critics from the United States 
or Canada. 

Among exclusive elements, we find some 14 pages (in Italian) reproduced from an 
unpublished film script, handwritten by Visconti with technical notes and sketches, for 
some scenes that have become parts of his wonderful Ludwig (1973), one of the most 
beautiful and poignant movies in film history (217-32). We understand how Visconti 
planned his mise-en-scéne, the settings, the camera moves, in a few scenes (the meeting 
with King Ludwig, Cosima, and Richard Wagner; the king’s meeting with his sick 
brother, Prince Otto; the king’s voyage with his lover in his secret cavern). This precious 
and unique document showing the directorial process comes from the collection of La 
Cinémathéque frangaise. Finally, we find in the last pages some sources for websites and 
contacts for archives on Visconti. 

Without doubt, Lagny’s book is the best work in French on director Luchino 
Visconti. The author acknowledges a considerable body of work about the director, even 
Italian publications, that she knows very well and often quotes (12). Her analysis is 
original, clear, and inspiring. She complains that there were in France too many pointless 
books (such as Youssef Ishagpour’s) using intercultural or intermediatical approaches on 
Visconti’s movies, setting apart the films themselves. There were also many French 
critics (such as Serge Daney and Jean-Pierre Oudart in Les Cahiers du cinéma in 1971) 
who were opposed to Visconti’s flamboyant universe in the 1970s (12, 94). While I 
would have preferred fuller development of the analytical section, which is somewhat 
short (less than a hundred pages) for such an important matter, Lagny’s welcome book 
provides the essence of Visconti’s enormous talent. The comprehensive bibliography 
contains selected references in Italian, French, and English. The filmography is also 
complete, including television, stage, operas, and ballet projects, even unfinished ones. 
This well written monograph will help scholars who can read French to know more about 
the creation and significance of masterpieces such as // Gattopardo (1963), The Damned 
(1969), and Rocco and his Brothers (1960). 

Yves Laberge, Institut québécois des hautes études internationales, Québec 


593 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Anna Maria Torriglia. Broken Time, Fragmented Space: A Cultural Map for Postwar 
Italy. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2002. Pp. xxii + 239. 

In this work, Anna Maria Torriglia examines the forging of cultural identity in postwar 
Italy through a study of numerous literary and cinematic texts. Contextualizing her 
analysis within the political, historical, and cultural climate of the time, Torriglia focuses 
on both the continuities and fissures between the fascist Ventennio and postwar period 
and the irresolvable tensions imposed by the burden of the past. 

Her first chapter, entitled “Time Has Changed,” focuses on the postwar crisis 
experienced by intellectuals forced to come to terms with a past that they would rather 
forget. In her close readings of Pietro Germi’s Gioventu perduta, Vasco Pratolini’s Un 
eroe del nostro tempo, and Roberto Rossellini’s Germania anno zero, Torriglia uses the 
father-son relationship as a metaphor for the ideological rift between fascism and anti- 
fascism, between consent and dissent. Such a rift, Germi suggests, resulted in a 
generation of young men unable to connect with their fathers, whom they blamed for 
legitimating the status quo. In contrast, in Pratolini’s novel the protagonist is constructed 
as the cruel offspring of a fascist father, and children are seen ultimately as living in the 
shadow of their fathers. Rossellini presents yet another alienated character, an innocent 
victim of a perverse teacher who instructs him to kill his father to annihilate the past. The 
burden of the past is heavy, and Torriglia, in her close analysis of the language of the 
texts, leaves little hope for the forging of identity amid a schizophrenic generation of 
boys who cannot repudiate or escape their past. 

In her second chapter, “From Mother to Daughter,” Torriglia shifts her attention 
from a paternal plot to a maternal one. Parallel to the need for a symbolic killing of 
fathers runs the re-evaluation of women, in particular of the mother figure, in the first 
decade after the Second World War. Adopting many of the notions of the Diotima group 
and of Italian feminism, Torriglia analyzes the symbolic mother-daughter relationship in 
Anna Banti’s Artemisia and in Alba De Céspedes’s Dalla parte di lei. In Banti’s work, 
Torriglia defines the relationship between author and character as a dialogue across 
historical time, which validates a female genealogy that is woven through history and 
structured in the innovative language of the novel. Torriglia problematizes the female 
position in De Céspedes’s novel which, while promoting a female genealogy that runs 
counter to patriarchy, also partially implicates women in their own symbolic obliteration. 
Torriglia also examines cinema’s reconsideration of women, suggesting that some 
(though relatively few) postwar filmmakers featured women in roles unheard of in the 
Fascist era, such as the single mother (Pietrangeli’s Celestina) and less spectacular 
representations of the diva (Siamo donne). The chapter explores women’s ambivalent 
position, caught between the public and the private, between an androgynous system and 
a female lineage, as both occasional subject, but predominantly object of a male gaze. 

Chapter three, “The Myth of America,” examines Italy’s problematic relationship 
with a nation whose image had evolved from that of a mythical and liberating culture, in 
opposition to fascism in the thirties, to a materialistic, unethical, and imperialistic force in 
the postwar period. Cesare Pavese becomes Torriglia’s representative of this shifting 
perspective, for under fascism, he and others of his generation embraced America as a 
model for new literature, marked by anti-rhetorical language. But the actual presence of 
America in Italy and the resulting exploitation and commodification led Pavese to reject 
the modernity epitomized by urban America and to revert to the traditions embodied by 
his rural Piedmont. Pavese broke with the politically engaged literature of his time, 


594 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


opting for what Torriglia labels a more feminized narrative of memory. Torriglia further 
explores the Italy/America dynamic through the complex and ambiguous relationship of 
the Italian cinema and Hollywood. Rossellini’s Paisa, on the one hand, represents the 
American woman as alternative model to stereotyped femininity and, on the other hand, 
exposes America as the land of racism, consumerism, and imperialism. While in Riso 
amaro De Santis both attacks the myths of the silver screen and reproaches the models of 
modernity, he cannot restrain himself from constructing his action around a character 
imaged in much the same way as the Hollywood star. Finally, the Hollywood imprint 
becomes even more evident in Italian-American co-productions where American stars, 
like Ingrid Bergman, allow Rossellini to find himself again, caught in an ambiguous 
representation of women. While initially suggesting, in Stromboli, that a foreign star can 
pave the way for more modern and transgressive options for women, he ultimately 
restores the traditional order by equating women’s social status and personal identity with 
motherhood. Likewise, Vittorio De Sica’s Stazione Termini provides a very conservative 
message via a male gaze that consistently scrutinizes the protagonist, who has strayed 
from her marriage but ultimately returns to her husband and to the boundaries of the 
nuclear family. 

The fourth chapter, “The Country at Hand,” charts the Italian society of the postwar 
period with specific emphasis on leisure time. Re-applying her theory of continuity 
between past and present, Torriglia links the leisure activities offered by the fascist party 
to a different scenario in the fifties, dominated by the diffusion of television, the Vespa, 
and the cinquecento. The new mobility available to Italians of a certain economic class 
provides the catalyst for the theme of the journey in films and novels of the late forties 
and fifties. Journeying, both in a geographical and metaphorical sense, leads to a 
discovery of Italy’s different landscapes, in particular of the South, and to an 
understanding of the self through the encounter with the other. At a linguistic level, these 
journeys also privilege dialects, for decades submerged by a national and more literary 
language. Focusing as Torriglia does throughout her book on the tensions between 
contradictory images, her discussion of the South contrasts the tragic reality of a poverty- 
stricken land to its myths of lightness, joy, and nonchalance. Torriglia examines Maria 
Ortese’s // mare non bagna Napoli, where the picturesque carefree Naples is replaced by 
a desperately poverty-stricken patriarchal city, and Rossellini’s Viaggio in Italia, where 
the south is synonymous with a cultural otherness that allows for the reconciliation of an 
alienated couple from the north. A similar psychological journey is undertaken in 
Michelangelo Antonioni’s Le amiche, where a female protagonist acquires the 
subjectivity to explore her position in the world, defined by neither motherhood nor 
attachment to a man. 

Torriglia’s provocative study explores the transformations that affected Italy in the 
postwar years by mapping out a non-linear trajectory marked by ambiguity and 
contradiction. The book, notwithstanding some minor editorial flaws, is useful to both 
scholars of Italian and to novices of Italian culture. In her contextualizing of the literary 
and cinematic examples, Torriglia provides useful overviews of the Italian political 
situation, of the shifting economic realities, of the Italian film industry, of changing roles 
for women, and foregrounds intellectual and cultural debates. Her close textual analyses 
provide both re-readings of well-known texts and insightful introductions to lesser known 
works, and highlight the centrality of the languages of literature and film to the forging of 
identity. Torriglia employs a number of critical approaches, from the semiotic to the post- 


595 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


colonial, from the psychoanalytical to Italian feminist thought, in a rich cultural analysis 
of postwar Italy. Finally, this extremely well-documented study goes beyond offering 
new perspectives on the cultural landscape of postwar Italy; it prompts the reader to apply 
Torriglia’s critical methodologies to the cultural production of future decades. The 
themes that Torriglia explores are the very ones which literature and films of the rest of 
the century and, indeed, of the new millennium embrace: a continual reassessment of 
gender relations and the shifting representation of women; the problematic relationship 
with America, with the postwar liberation and with the Resistance; the encounter between 
northern industrial corruption and a more primitive and ethical south/other; and the 
relationship to language. Hence, Torriglia’s book provides us with ways both to reassess 
the past and to read and view contemporary representations of Italy’s emerging 
multicultural identities. 


Bernadette Luciano, University of Auckland 


Grazia Menechella. // felice vanverare. Ironia e parodia nell’opera narrativa di 
Giorgio Manganelli. Ravenna: Longo, 2002. 

La monografia che Grazia Menechella dedica a Manganelli reca uno di quei titoli che non 
solo annunciano limpidamente il contenuto del libro ma, in qualche modo, lo esauriscono 
gia. Un titolo che dice cosi tanto ha, naturalmente, pregi e difetti, e ho voluto cominciare 
proprio da li perché all’interno del titolo — “felice vanverare” é locuzione manganelliana 
— si trovano anticipati gli elementi strutturali del volume: ovvero la pratica del servirsi di 
Manganelli per spiegare Manganelli, pratica, beninteso, legittima e qui legittimata (che 
semmai solo sporadicamente viene impiegata con eccesso); e poi, l’estrema accuratezza 
informativa gia riscontrabile nel sottotitolo che si manifesta in una golosa raccolta di 
indicazioni e chicche bibliografiche all’interno del volume. Ma vediamo nel dettaglio. 

L’introduzione individua e chiarisce quella che é |l’intenzione “critica” di 
Menechella. Un’indagine, non cronologica ma categoriale, dell’intera produzione di 
Manganelli, attraverso due lenti retoriche, ironia e parodia, “connubio perfetto per 
procedere all’analisi, poiché si parte dal presupposto che proprio ironia e parodia siano 
gli strumenti di lavoro alla base della costruzione del testo manganelliano” (10). 
L’autrice, inoltre, si affretta giustamente ad indicare quali sono le definizioni di ironia e 
parodia che predilige (ovvero quelle di Hutcheon e Almansi), e inserisce pure utili 
informazioni circa la raccolta del materiale utilizzato presso il Centro Manoscritti 
dell’ Universita di Pavia. 

La lettura che Menechella vuole dare di Manganelli ¢ quella di uno scrittore i cui 
testi sono tutti “capovolgimento della norma a livello contenutistico e formale”, per cui 
“tutte queste negazioni diventano paradossalmente un’affermazione: |’affermazione del 
negativo” (11). Il progetto é di sicuro stimolo nonostante tali categorie, parodia e ironia, 
siano sovente associate allo scrittore milanese quando non evocate direttamente dal 
medesimo, e il libro ci é dunque prezioso soprattutto per il procedimento e la meticolosita 
investigativa, leggermente meno per |’idea che la muove, non troppo originale. Ad ogni 
modo, i piedistalli teoretici — appunto Hutcheon e Almansi cui vanno aggiunti Luperini, 
Jameson e Blanchot — di cui si nutre il libro sono sempre chiamati in causa con criterio, 
ben adoperati nelle loro implicazioni speculative. Mi pare molto appropriata, per 
esempio, la sovrapposizione di quella che Almansi definisce ironia tongue in cheek, 


596 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


elemento dunque che non solo dissimula la verita esibendo il suo contrario, ma che pure 
ammicca a tutti le varie pseudo-verita che stanno in mezzo, con quella, sorniona, 
energicamente adoperata da Manganelli, e che Menechella esplicita nel primo capitolo 
del libro, di carattere generale. Ne seguono altri pil particolari: “Il grande mentitore”, 
“La chiacchiera’”, “Scritture riscritture, letture e riletture’, “Lubrificare l’universo”, 
“Testo, contesto e paratesto”. 

Nel secondo capitolo, si cerca di inquadrare in contesto storico-sociale un autore che 
si é sempre dichiarato apolitico e disimpegnato, e lo si fa dapprima storicizzandolo 
biograficamente e sottolineando, argutamente, il coinvolgimento manganelliano 
nell’esperienza del gruppo 63, esperienza che il medesimo mai rinnegd e che 
“ridimensiond” pochissimo anche a 30 anni di distanza. Ma si chiarisce subito che del 
gruppo il Manganelli era forse |’elemento meno politicizzato, che lui ha anche sempre e 
solo dichiarato come la letteratura non dovesse svolgere nessuna particolare funzione 
ideologica, bensi mostrare fieramente la propria inutilita. Se questa é€ pur sempre 
posizione nota, appare elettrizzante la correlazione che Menechella trova fra Robbe- 
Grillet e Manganelli, sul terreno appunto della inutilita della scrittura e sullo svuotamento 
teorico del soggetto scrivente, anche alla luce dei risultati addirittura divergenti della 
prosa grillettiana e manganelliana. Inevitabile, ma necessario, allora, concludere 
sottolineando l’affinita vera dello scrittore milanese col resto della brigata 63: 
l’intransigente rinuncia a tutto quello che il romanzo borghese era stato fino ad allora. 

Con il terzo capitolo si cerca di rispondere a uno dei quesiti che pil tormentano i 
lettori, per professione e no, di Manganelli: il Nostro é un neobarocco? Partendo qui da 
Calabrese si parla, dal momento che si attaglierebbe alla nostra epoca, di revival del 
barocco, recupero di una dose di complessita stilistica ben adattabile alla confusione dei 
tempi. Ma per Manganelli non si tratta di un trasferimento di stilemi da un secolo a un 
altro, come Menechella sottolinea, ma di una conditio sine qua non della scrittura, di una 
difficolta irriducibile posta a difesa di ogni gittata propositiva, contro ogni tentativo di 
didatticita che la letteratura esibisca. A questa premessa, segue un censimento dei motivi 
che ricorrono ossessivamente in tutti i libri di Manganelli, araldi della sua scrittura: 
inferno, amore e morte, assenza, nulla. L’argomentazione si scioglie poi nell’attenzione 
“rivolta a specifici temi, figure, strategie narrative e sensibilita barocche” (91). Per molte 
pagine si citano e parafrasano frasi che irrobustiscono questo concetto, fino a che si 
giunge al capitolo sulle riscritture. Menechella prosegue l’esposizione concentrandosi 
sull’iperproblematica comunicazione autore-lettore. Dalla diligente rassegna di luoghi 
topici in svariati romanzi si deduce che per Manganelli un testo senza lettore non é 
neppure testo, non ha vita né funzioni, e che la letteratura é, da sempre, critica sulla 
letteratura, una condizione neppure postuma ma direi proprio di cadavericita ostentata, 
tuttavia necessaria alla realta in virth del suo essere superflua. 

Il quinto capitolo riguarda la “librificazione dell’universo”, nella forma della 
“geocritica”, termine preso in prestito da Manganelli che vi ipotizza, in una intervista, 
“un nuovo genere letterario [...] che consisterebbe nel trattare un luogo nella stessa 
maniera con cui trattiamo un libro. Cioé come un sistema di stimoli” (181). Menechella 
che seziona, lavora in profondita e ricuce tutti i testi che Manganelli ha dedicato ai viaggi 
(compiuti realmente e no) tende e riesce a dimostrare che quella geocritica Manganelli 
non I’ha solo vagheggiata ma messa in atto e perpetrata a lungo. I luoghi non possono 
essere interpretati ma letti, filtrati attraverso la logica dell’esperimento linguistico e 
avviene spesso che quelle che si accumulano siano solo annotazioni corporali, prive di 


597 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


una storia del viaggio e di referenti reali, guide senza funzioni di guide, parodie di guide, 
al fine: “viaggiare ¢ fare esperimenti in teologie alternative. Ecco, il buon viaggiatore é 
politeista” (197), come Manganelli ebbe infatti a dichiarare. 

L’ultimo capitolo tocca forse il punto pit nuovo dell’indagine. Qui, ad essere 
analizzato non é pit |’intero corpus dei testi manganelliani, pericoloso gioco del fare le 
glosse a un abile glossatore di se stesso, bensi il rapporto dei suoi testi con il mondo, e 
con tutto il paratesto che li avvolge, accoccola, completa. Menechella punta il dito sul 
servilismo latente in molta scrittura contemporanea che Manganelli inscena nel finale 
Encomio del tiranno. Qui attraverso lo scontro fra lo scrittore/fool e |’editore/tiranno si 
delinea e completa, nell’impossibilita del foo! di raccontare storie e nel demandarle 
continuamente riducendole a vaniloqui, la parabola di tutto Manganelli, sperimentale fino 
all’ultimo respiro, che non ha concesso nulla né al mercato né al pubblico, in termini 
almeno di “prodotti consolatori”. La seconda parte del capitolo rilegge le copertine e i 
famosi risvolti di copertina firmati dallo stesso autore non come semplici supporti 
editoriali, ma come macchine parodiche a loro volta di cid di cui sono “soglie”. Una serie 
di riproduzioni delle copertine e di alcuni indici permette di visualizzare l’ultima grande 
invenzione parodica di Manganelli, un paratesto che sia la tongue in cheek al libro 
medesimo. 

Al postutto, il carattere argomentativo e quello espositivo del libro di Menechella 
sono non solo soddisfacenti, nonostante la tesi non sia estremamente nuova, ma 
impressionanti per la massima puntualita (solo, a tratti, un poco ridondante) delle 
citazioni da Manganelli, e soprattutto per |’ampiezza e la meticolosita con cui una cosi 
vasta mole di dati viene raccolta e distribuita. Il volume si presenta dunque come 
un’ottima introduzione alla lettura di Manganelli, sia per chi si avventura nell’universo 
del Nostro ancora ignaro di cid che incontrera, sia per gli specialisti, avvezzi a 
fronteggiare le dense problematiche intrinseche alla letteratura contemporanea pil 
affilata. 

Riccardo Boglione, University of Pennsylvania 


Alfonso Berardinelli, La forma del saggio. Definizione e attualita di un genere 
letterario, Marsilio, Venezia 2002. 
E un obbiettivo ambizioso quello che tiene insieme le pagine di questo lavoro di Alfonso 
Berardinelli: codificare la forma di un genere letterario, definirne e delimitarne il campo, 
descriverne lo sviluppo nel corso di quasi un secolo e mezzo, proporre un canone di 
autori e di opere. Il fatto che il genere in questione sia il saggio, delle forme letterarie 
certamente quella pit difficilmente riducibile a una sistematica classificazione — “il pit 
mutevole e inafferrabile dei generi” (17) —, rende, se possibile, ancora pit ardimentosa 
l’impresa dell’autore. Ma non si creda che |’esito di questo tentativo risulti alla fine 
inadeguato rispetto alle opzioni su cui si fonda e alle mete che si prefigge; che, in altre 
parole, alle premesse epistemologiche, teoriche e militanti espresse nell’introduzione non 
corrisponda un esito per cosi dire adeguato alle attese. Tutt’altro: Berardinelli ci consegna 
un’opera che, pur astenendosi dal proporsi come esaustiva o definitiva e rimanendo 
quindi aperta, problematica, interlocutoria, ha la consistenza della vasta sistematizzazione 
retrospettiva e della complessa e meditata elaborazione teorica. 

Del resto la selezione dei saggi che costituiscono il libro rivela un’attenzione alla 
questione e un assiduo lavoro critico che si sono andati dispiegando per un quindicennio, 


598 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


ma che risalgono, nella loro ispirazione originaria, almeno a dieci anni prima. (A tale 
proposito é un peccato che in questa raccolta, presumibilmente per ragioni di tempo, non 
sia stato incluso il saggio Saggistica, stili di pensiero e tendenze culturali, redatto per 
ultimo volume di aggiornamento della Storia della letteratura italiana fondata da 
Cecchi e Sapegno, vol. XI, // Novecento. Scenari di fine secolo, Milano, Garzanti, 2001, 
pp. 5-35). E la loro stessa disposizione attesta non solo la vastita del campo compreso 
dall’indagine del critico, ma anche il rigore e la coerenza del suo metodo: la prima parte 
si apre infatti con La critica come saggistica (precedentemente apparso in A. 
Berardinelli, F. Brioschi, C. Di Girolamo, La ragione critica, Torino, Einaudi, 1986 e 
successivamente ripubblicato in Tra il libro e la vita, Torino, Bollati Boringhieri, 1990), 
che funge da vera e propria premessa teorica per |’intero volume, capitolo nel quale viene 
delineata tra l’altro una tipologia del saggio critico del Novecento, tra saggistica di 
invenzione e di illuminazione epistemologica e saggistica di storia e critica della cultura. 
A esso fanno seguito due studi sui saggisti italiani, il pit’ esauriente e complesso dei 
quali, La forma del saggio: da de Sanctis a oggi, scritto originariamente per il Manuale 
di letteratura italiana curato da Franco Brioschi e Costanzo di Girolamo (Torino, Bollati 
Boringhieri, 1996), é di gran lunga pit corposo degli altri e fa da vero e proprio cardine 
strutturante per l’intero lavoro. Questa parte del volume si chiude con altri tre interventi: 
nuovamente di carattere eminentemente teorico e riflessivo i primi due (Struttura 
saggistica e insegnamento e Critica e studio letterario: sui fondamenti epistemologici 
della critica); di impronta militante, critico-culturale e politica l’ultimo (Critica letteraria 
e critica della cultura), quasi che al momento propriamente descrittivo e storico 
letterario, di selezione e valutazione, dovesse ancora seguire quello riflessivo e 
problematico, in un movimento oscillatorio, qui “tra i libri e la teoria”, che accentua 
l’efficacia e la profondita argomentativa dell’intero lavoro. Nella seconda parte, invece, 
vengono raccolti alcuni interventi, apparsi su quotidiani e riviste, dedicati quasi tutti a 
saggisti letterari contemporanei (le eccezioni sono Solmi, Praz, Auden): La Capria, 
Garboli, Orlando, Magris, Ferroni, Moretti, Steiner. 

Berardinelli formula le sue definizioni del genere saggistico, espone le sue personali 
riflessioni, registra e illustra una puntigliosa fenomenologia delle forme in un dialogo 
ininterrotto con altri autori, con altre teorizzazioni: cosi, ad esempio, ¢ proprio partendo 
da Giovanni Macchia che lo spazio privilegiato del saggio viene isolato nella dimensione 
esistente “tra il libro e la vita”, attribuendo ad esso una triplice e sincronica dimensione 
teorica, pragmatica e stilistica, circoscrivendo successivamente il genere a partire dalla 
situazione empirica di chi scrive e dal fine pratico della scrittura, “primi responsabili 
dell’organizzazione stilistica del testo” (75), e definendo quindi il saggio stesso “come 
quella forma di discorso in cui una riflessione e un’argomentazione vengono svolte a 
partire da una situazione vissuta da chi scrive, situazione che entra nella materia del 
discorso, e a partire da un orizzonte comunicativo definito, dove il pubblico e il canale 
della comunicazione sono a loro volta determinanti nella costruzione retorica e stilistica 
del testo” (76). Ma anche per i ritratti critici dei saggisti italiani si fa sovente ricorso a un 
sapiente dosaggio di rimandi e sovrapposizioni: la topografia del saggio novecentesco 
tracciata da Berardinelli, volendo dare un altro esempio, prende avvio dai poli opposti 
Croce e Michelstaedter, letti a loro volta contando sulla mediazione di Debenedetti. 

E anche attraverso questo sofisticato ma mai pretestuoso gioco di stratificazioni che 
il critico perviene alla compilazione di un canone letterario per la saggistica italiana 
moderna, desumibile per un verso dall’intera lettura del testo, trovandosi esso dislocato 


599 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


lungo I’ intera trattazione, ma che trova la sua modellizazione per cosi dire istituzionale e 
normativa nel profilo storiografico del capitolo La forma del saggio: da De Sanctis a 
oggi. Tuttavia, anche in queste vesti di canonizzatore ufficiale, Berardinelli, pur operando 
una personale selezione che inevitabilmente prevede inclusioni ed esclusioni, non si 
astiene dai giudizi di valore e legittima la fondatezza della genealogia che va delineando 
proprio dall’interno, ovvero implicandola nel discorso critico che svolge su ogni singolo 
autore. Inoltre, seppure sottotraccia, per questo canone passa anche una nuova versione di 
quell’ autoritratto italiano che Berardinelli in diverse occasioni ha voluto ricavare dalla 
letteratura nazionale e che qui prende la forma, pur implicita, di una storia degli 
intellettuali proiettata sullo sfondo di un’identita culturale e politica nazionale in 
formazione e trasformazione: i suoi autori, oltre a quelli gia citati, sono Carducci, Serra, 
Prezzolini, Salvemini, Cecchi, Praz, Longhi, Gobetti, Gramsci, Savinio, Levi, 
Chiaromonte, Saba, Montale, Gadda, Fortini, Pasolini, Milani. Infine, l’avere aperto un 
dibattito sul canone del saggio critico é comunque un ulteriore merito dell’autore, se si 
pensa che questo genere letterario é rimasto ai margini delle discussioni proliferate in 
questi anni intorno alla questione della selezione di un canone delle opere, come ha 
notato Michela Sacco Messineo (cfr. La forma del saggio critico: modalita e parabola 
nel Novecento, in Studi di italianistica per P. M. Sipala, a cura di S. Zappulla Muscara, 
Siculorum gymnasium, Facolta di Lettere e Filosofia, Universita di Catania, 2002, pp. 
471-481). 

Ma quello di Berardinelli ¢ anche un lavoro a tesi: nel corso del Novecento é la 
scrittura saggistica a prevalere, non solo colmando il vuoto determinato dallo scacco delle 
forme poetiche e narrative o supplendo alla crisi dei loro statuti letterari, ma soprattutto 
informandole e contaminandole: le strategie narrative di Proust, di Kafka, di Gadda 
conducono a una scrittura prossima alla saggistica (e questa osmosi non si attenuera in 
altri autori a essi successivi); l’esigenza discorsiva della poesia si disloca all’esterno del 
testo “andando a nutrire una saggistica di sostegno e di autocommento dotata di 
un originalita propria” (91). Da cid discende la necessita di una ridefinizione dei confini 
del letterario e del concetto stesso di letterarieta, poiché “la sostanza letteraria non é una 
sostanza ontologica che abita stabilmente un testo scritto” e “la saggistica é il genere 
letterario in cui la definizione letteraria, la ‘letterarieta’ arriva pid tardi” (91-2), ma anche, 
per conseguenza, l’urgenza di una nuova formulazione dei canoni, eccessivamente 
subordinata finora ai generi forti. 

L’impresa della definizione di un genere letterario condotta con successo da 
Berardinelli, proprio per la sua autorevolezza, sollecita dunque a riaprire il cantiere degli 
studi di contemporaneistica e a rivedere i progetti e i modelli sui quali si é édificata l’idea 
stessa della letteratura moderna in Italia. 

Matteo Di Gest (Universita di Palermo) 


Elide Casali, Le spie del cielo. Oroscopi, lunari e almanacchi nell’Italia moderna, 
Torino, Einaudi, 2003, pp. 332. 

In questo saggio vengono presi in considerazioni gli astrologi (“spie del cielo” 0, anche, 
“segretari delle stelle”) dell’Italia moderna (tra il secondo Quattrocento e la fine del 
Settecento) e la /etteratura da loro prodotta. La ricerca é stata condotta secondo un 
metodo morfologico e storico; |’attenzione si ¢ soffermata, dunque, non solo sulla 
struttura del pronostico, ma anche sui contesti culturali, religiosi, filosofici, scientifici, 


600 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


sociali e politici in cui esso veniva prodotto e diffuso. E stato analizzato un elevato 
numero di libretti e fogli volanti pronosticanti, di cui é stato esaminato non solo il 
contenuto, ma anche la forma e la struttura: “[...] la prospettiva di una larga cronologia” 
ha, inoltre, “rivelato sotto l’apparente stereotipia una sfaccettata fisionomia”. La storia 
del pronostico rivela come questo abbia avuto nel tempo aspetti multiformi: dal 
pronostico del secondo Quattrocento improntato all’astrologia giudiziaria al pronostico 
cristiano improntato all’astrologia naturale, al discorso astrologico barocco caratterizzato 
da “inconfondibili abiti sontuosi’, al “trionfo del lunario” nel Settecento; e ci sono non 
solo pronostici astrologici, ma anche pronostici profetici (che nascono tra Quattrocento e 
Cinquecento), burleschi (vivaci soprattutto nel periodo umanistico e rinascimentale), 
spirituali (veri e propri “strumenti di propaganda della rinnovata evangelizzazione 
controriformistica”), ciarlataneschi (coevi agli altri, ma molto semplificati e banalizzanti 
l’antica “profetissa” degli astri). 

Nella prima parte (J segretari delle stelle) vengono analizzati la figura dell’astrologo 
(Professione astrologo, pp. 5-34) e le caratteristiche dei pronostici, dei discorsi, dei 
pronostici cristiani e di quelli spirituali (Pronostici e discorsi, pp. 35-60; Pronostico 
cristiano e pronostico spirituale, pp. 61-89). La seconda parte (J segni del cielo) presenta 
particolari “intrecci e intarsi culturali” della letteratura almanacchistica con |’astrologia e 
le forme della divinatio vulgaris: la medicina, |’igiene e |’alimentazione, |’agronomia e la 
cultura folclorica rurale, |’arte del buon governo familiare e politico, la cronachistica e la 
storia (I teatro del cielo, pp. 93-120; Le stelle nei campi, pp. 121-45; Astrolabio e salute, 
pp. 146-75; La gazzetta delle stelle, pp. 176-99). Nella terza parte (Ciarlatani, 
cantimbanchi, almanacchisti) sono presi in considerazione forme particolari di pronostici 
e almanacchi, come i pronostici ciarlataneschi (Astrologia e ciarlataneria, pp. 203-27) e€ 
quelli burleschi (Astrologia e riso, pp. 228-48) e gli almanacchi del XVIII secolo, 
prodotti di “alta malleabilita, capaci di farsi modellare, al di la della presenza o 
dell’assenza dell’astrologia” (// libro universale, pp. 249-70). Conclude il volume 
l’elenco delle fonti (pp. 273-314) e la bibliografia (pp. 317-31), ma manca un indice dei 
nomi e delle opere. 

L’interdisciplinarita é un carattere peculiare del libro, che presenta dotti riferimenti a 
molte e diverse discipline, da quelle scientifiche e tecniche a quelle storico-artistiche. A 
proposito delle presentazioni liriche delle parti dell’anno contenute nei discorsi 
astrologici barocchi, a esempio, si fa riferimento alle stagioni affrescate da Giuseppe 
Maria Crespi in uno dei soffitti di Palazzo Pepoli Campogrande a Bologna; ma bisogna 
anche ricordare che questo artista fu un importante innovatore della pittura tra Seicento e 
Settecento e fu meno “barocco” di quanto si possa pensare. Molto interessante appare il 
capitolo dedicato all’astrologia parodistica e, soprattutto, al pronostico burlesco, che non 
devono essere intesi — come sottolinea |’autrice — in chiave antiastrologica, ma letti in una 
“prospettiva di ribaltamento temporaneo di tutti i valori per riaffermare |’ordine 
costituito, riconoscere e rinsaldare i principi della cultura ufficiale”: il quadro 
antropologico prevede, cosi, il bisogno da parte del pubblico sia della produzione “seria” 
sia di quella “carnevalesca”. La scrittura @ sempre piacevole e scorrevole, le 
argomentazioni sono ben documentate, articolate e convincenti. 

Bijoy M. Trentin, Universita di Bologna 


601 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Anita Piemonti e Marina Polacco, (a cura di). Sogni di carta. Dieci studi sul sogno 
raccontato in letteratura. Firenze: Le Monnier, 2001. Pp. 203. 

Alle ormai babeliche biblioteche dedicate all’indagine scientifica, alla descrizione 
psicanalitica, alla riflessione filosofica e alla narrazione del sogno, si aggiunge un nuovo 
libro sul mondo onirico che prende, sicuro, il suo posto. Sogni di carta. Dieci studi sul 
sogno raccontato in letteratura é un volume collettivo che raduna le pit diverse opere 
della letteratura mondiale, dall’Ottocento ai giorni nostri, intorno a un comune interesse 
interpretativo. La disparita dei testi, che all’inizio pud sembrare sconcertante, si risolve 
nella natura stessa del progetto, un vasto studio sul sogno letterario — di cui questo é il 
primo di una serie di volumi annunciati — concepito dai ricercatori Remo Cesarani e 
Mario Lavagetto e organizzato, come spiega la premessa, intorno a diversi gruppi di 
ricerca, attivi dal 1997, presso le universita di Bologna, Calabria, Macerata, Pisa, Pisa 
Scuola Normale, Roma 3. I saggi del presente volume provengono dal lavoro seminariale 
coordinato da Anita Piemonti (curatrice del libro, insieme a Maria Polacco) all’ Universita 
di Pisa durante |’anno 2000. 

L’assoluta “assenza di una teoria generale del sogno narrato” (3) é il grado zero del 
libro, condiviso ugualmente da studiosi e lettori. Tuttavia, Sogni di carta scorta il lettore, 
per via dell’introduzione, in un universo critico ben preciso, quello psicanalitico, 
questionando perd |’efficacia operativa di una simile esegesi in ambito letterario. Si 
distingue, dunque, il “lavoro onirico” dal “verosimile onirico”, cioé il “sogno vero” dal 
“sogno raccontato” (6). Smascherato lo scrittore, che falsa i meccanismi della psiche 
nelle sue finzioni oniriche, ci si avvale della distinzione di Lavagetto, per cui il sogno 
vero ha un “ombelico”, (9) cioé un punto che resiste l’interpretazione, mentre quello 
creato, proprio per la sua artificiosita, é incapace di offrire questo limite. Nel sogno 
creato “il materiale di cui |’interprete si puo servire é tutto li: i percorsi possono essere 
molteplici, ma gli elementi con cui costruirli sono sempre preesistenti. Dalla finitezza del 
testo non é possibile uscire” (10). Mentre la risoluzione del dilemma status/legittimita del 
sogno raccontato risulta quasi meccanica, si riflette lucidamente, invece, sull’applicabilita 
di un sistema esegetico che gia varca il secolo — e, infatti, il volume vanta la distanza di 
cent’anni che lo separa, e lo lega anche, alla pubblicazione dell’ /nterpretazione dei sogni 
di Freud. 

Ma se i procedimenti ricorrenti del lavoro onirico definiti da Freud (spostamento, 
condensazione, raffigurabilita, simbolismo, abolizione dei nessi logici) vengono discussi 
nel libro, come categorie storicamente determinate, é inoltre esaminata la validita stessa 
dell’utilizzo della psicanalisi per una grammatica che non é quella della psiche, ma quella 
letteraria — e questo mi sembra uno dei punti sostanziali della riflessione teorica del 
libro. “Non esiste il sogno — afferma Guido Almansi — esiste una traduzione verbale 
nel linguaggio della veglia di quella ‘esperienza multisensoriale simulata’ [...] detta 
sogno” e conclude “continuiamo a illuderci che esista una pacifica omologia fra il sogno 
sognato e il sogno raccontato” (6). 

Sarebbe velleitario pretendere di risolvere il complesso problema epistemologico 
dell’esegesi psicanalitica per la quale il sogno viene considerato come una realta 
verbalizzabile. La spazio onirico, ipotizza Michel Foucault nell’introduzione a Sogno ed 
esistenza di Ludwig Binswanger, non é verbalizzabile appunto perché € in sé un 
linguaggio, avente non solo una funzione semantica, ma anche una struttura morfologica 
e sintattica che andrebbe pure esaminata. Analogamente, il sogno letterario (pil 
specificamente quello postfreudiano) ha, come quello sognato, una semantica (e anche 


602 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


una morfologia e sintassi onirica) che riproduce la descrizione psicanalitica, una 
simbologia che mima la descrizione freudiana. Avventurandoci nel labirinto degli studi di 
Sogni di carta ci troviamo di fronte a degli esami quasi stregati dalla funzione semantica 
dei sogni mentre si tralasciano aspetti di morfologia e sintassi. A prima vista questa scelta 
pud generare qualche dubbio sull’abbandono di altre possibili prospettive critiche. II 
problema viene perd affrontato nell’introduzione dove ci si interroga sui limiti 
dell’applicabilita della teoria psicanalitica. La risposta data individua un aspetto ben 
preciso del problema, e cioé il parziale anacronismo, per dirla con Lyotard, di questa 
metanarrativa negli ultimi tempi. Difatti, certi sogni di carta (quelli di Giulio Angioni, 
come si vedra dopo) appartengono a opere “postmoderne” in cui “i sogni sembrano 
essere ‘sogni di nessuno’ impersonali ed enciclopedici, non pil legati al desiderio 
individuale” (13). Constatando quindi la dissoluzione del soggetto, ci si chiede “[...] in 
che modo é allora possibile — se é possibile — coniugare il lascito freudiano (tuttora non 
delegittimato dal punto di vista scientifico) con un sistema culturale che pare non 
sopportarlo pit?” (13) 

Dalla narrazione del sogno, questa volta postmoderna, si torna, quasi muovendosi in 
cerchio, all’ipotesi di una vita onirica postmoderna, di fronte alla quale | Interpretazione 
dei sogni non fornirebbe pit una chiave di lettura (14). Verso la fine, quasi come un vero 
deus ex machina, appare l’ipotesi di una costruzione “naturale” del sogno (15), che 
sembrerebbe risolvere le variate problematiche prima accennate. In realta, la discussione 
procede sull’applicabilita esclusiva del testo freudiano, prerogativa che non si verifica nei 
saggi in cui Sigmund Freud dialoga con Remo Bodei, Franco Moretti, Remo Ceserani, 
Mario Lavagetto. 

Le tre parti che seguono |’introduzione, in un’ organizzazione che accoglie, questa, le 
logiche regole della veglia, si dipanano come un percorso progressivo che va dalla lettura 
minuziosa delle singole opere alla vastita dei modi letterari. La prima parte prende in 
analisi il sogno all’interno del “macrotesto in cui é inserito” (16) e le opere trattate vanno 
da una Jane Eyre prefreudiana in cui, secondo Orsetta Innocente, Charlotte Bronté 
utilizza il sogno come espediente profetico, alla maniera cioé degli antichi, al 
postmoderno (e postfreudiano) J/ sale sulla ferita di Giulio Angioni che conferisce al 
sogno, come spiega Franco Manai, la capacita di conservazione delle “emozioni etico- 
erotiche annientate dal presente” (40), ma che non esclude, comunque, il suo valore 
“profetico e quasi visionario” (45) perché i “resti di tradizione e di culture arcaiche 
convivono con i saperi e consapevolezze moderne” (48). 

La seconda parte studia la funzione dei sogni nell’opera complessiva di tre autori: 
Robert Louis Stevenson, Robert Walser ed Elsa Morante. Ad esempio, lo studio di Paolo 
Zanotti su Stevenson, per citare solo il pit stimolante, individua una “trasposizione del 
sogno profetico in chiave realistica” (99), il che segna non il passaggio radicale da una 
logica arcaica, cioé quella del sogno profetico, ad una moderna, ma _ piuttosto 
’aggiornamento di vecchi paradigmi a scopo stilistico. 

La terza parte chiude il libro esaminando la funzione del sogno nei tre modi letterari 
della rappresentazione teatrale, del feuilleton e del racconto fantastico. Per il teatro Der 
Traum ein Leben, di Franz Grillparzer, Anita Piemonti mette a fuoco la trasformazione 
dal sogno in letteratura a quello raccontato allo spettatore, cioé |’operazione di mutare la 
narrazione del sogno in performance. L’opera di Alexandre Dumas, approfondita da 
Clotilde Bretoni, oscilla tra i “sogni di repertorio”, i sogni “mise en abime del testo” 


603 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


(165) e i sogni inutili che appaiono come “una nota superflua se non dissonante” (170), 
complicando la lettura del feuilleton e arricchendola di nuovi spunti. 

Sogni di carta é, per i non addetti ai lavori, un viaggio originale e quasi turistico (e, 
in questo senso, basta sottolineare |’attenzione minuziosa alle citazioni dei testi in lingua 
originale e alle traduzioni accuratissime che le accompagnano) nel mondo del sogno 
letterario; per gli specialisti, una fonte di riferimento in cui trovare accurate e lucidissime 
letture, avallate da una approfondita analisi e da una ricca bibliografia. Per tutti, una 
scuSa per curiosare nei sogni altrui, e nei sogni della critica, per almeno duecento pagine. 

Georgina Torello, University of Pennsylvania 


Le riviste di italianistica nel mondo. Atti del convegno internazionale, Napoli, 23-25 
novembre 2000. Quaderni di Esperienze letterarie 3. Ed. Marco Santoro. Roma: 
Istituti editoriali e poligrafici internazionali, 2002. Pp. 381. 

This grand international convention on journals of Italian studies opened on November 
23, 2000, before an audience representing illustrious scholars and interested students 
from Italy and abroad. In the course of the three-day convention, speakers presented a 
broad overview of these journals, whose countries of origin range from as close as 
Europe to as far away as Australia. 

Following the inaugural greetings by Dante Della Terza, Christian Bec presided over 
the first part of the morning session, in which Marco Santoro delivered the introduction 
to the convention. Professor Santoro pointed out how the journals of Italian studies 
“hanno manifestato una vitalita da incidere profondamente sullo sviluppo sia di 
metodologie di approccio critico che di rigorosi e documentati approfondimenti inerenti 
le molteplici vicende della nostra civilita letteraria [...]” (14). Given the great diversity 
among the journals of Italian studies, especially the foreign reviews, the purpose of the 
conference was not only to acknowledge this diversity but also “dibattere sui possibili 
scenari futuri ed attivare quindi una strategia di collaborazione che possa giovare non alla 
singola testata ma all’intero settore” (15). In the second part, chaired by Paolo Cherchi, 
three venerable journals — II giornale storico della letteratura italiana, La rassegna 
della letteratura italiana, and Lettere italiane — were the subjects of talks by Arnaldo di 
Benedetto, Giorgio Luti, and Vittore Branca, respectively. 

In the two afternoon session, speakers devoted their presentations to a variety of 
journals established in the second half of the 20th century: Cesare Segre (Strumenti 
critici); Giuseppe Petronio (Problemi); Michele Dell’ Aquila (/talianistica); and Mario 
Scotti (Esperienze letterarie). Raffaele Giglio spoke on Critica letteraria; Walter Moretti 
on “Le riviste rinascimentali” published in Italy; Martino Capucci on Studi secenteschi; 
and Michele Cataudella on “II ruolo delle riviste di provincia meridionali.” 

On the second day of the convention, the topics of the morning ranged widely. 
Sergio Pautasso, in his report “Stile e testo letterario nelle riviste di linguistica italiana,” 
was one of several speakers to address the inroads made on traditional literary reviews by 
television and on-line journals. Remo Cesarani discussed the identity crisis of 
comparative studies as it reconfigures itself to extra-European literary traditions. (He also 
provided an important guide to the principal reviews of Comparative Literature 
throughout the world, 112-17). In the afternoon session, Christian Bec spoke on the 
evolution of the journal Revue des études italiannes since its establishment in 1936, and 
recalled, in an appendix, the documents, dating from 1916, that demonstrate the strong 


604 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Italian-French rapport behind the “Union intellectuelle franco-italienne.” Following the 
presentations about journals of Italian studies in France (by Frangoise Decroisette), Spain 
(by Maria de la Nieves Mufiiz Mufiiz), and Argentina (by Gloria Galli de Ortega), the 
first of two round table discussions was held, chaired by Paolo Cherchi, on the theme 
“Criteri redazionali e norme bibliografiche.” The participants were Andrea Battistini, 
Lucio Felici, Bruno Ferraro, Francesco Furlan, Piero Innocenti, and Federci Pellizzi. 

On the last day of the conference, the morning session was devoted to reports on 
journals of Italian studies in the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States, Australia, 
Hungary, Poland, Germany, Croatia, and Romania. Alberto Mancini presented a 
comprehensive survey of the American reviews, which are 20 in number (not including 
journals such as Speculum or Renaissance Quarterly which, although not dedicated to 
Italian studies, nevertheless publish articles and book reviews on Italian literature and 
culture). The conference concluded with a second round table discussion with the topic 
“Caratteristiche ¢ valenze delle segnalazioni librarie.” The participants were Gian Carlo 
Ferretti, Marziano Guglielminetti, Gianvito Resta, and Marco Santagata. 

In conclusion, the papers of this conference present a thorough assessment of the 
status of Italian studies today and is an excellent resource tool for Italianists worldwide. 

Anne Tordi, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 


Carla Marcato. Dialetto, dialetti e italiano. Bologna: Il Mulino, 2002, Pp. 220. 

In questo volume Carla Marcato presenta una panoramica interessante ¢ stimolante della 
situazione e della storia dei dialetti italiani, proponendo sia una sintesi della loro 
evoluzione storica e delle tendenze che ne caratterizzano la condizione attuale, sia una 
riflessione su alcune questioni teoriche che ne riguardano lo studio. Tra queste ultime ci 
sono la definizione delle differenze fra lingua e dialetto, gli strumenti analitici per 
descrivere la pluralita di varieta lungo il continuum del repertorio linguistico italiano, le 
categorie teoriche che ci permettono di descrivere i rapporti di reciproca influenza tra 
queste varieta, la definizione delle funzioni sociali e culturali dei dialetti in Italia e 
all’estero, la legittimita e scientificita dei criteri di classificazione proposti dagli studiosi 
per i dialetti in Italia. Insieme alla riflessione teorica |’autrice propone anche I’esame di 
questioni metodologiche che si riferiscono agli strumenti usati per la raccolta di dati e la 
loro classificazione e affronta i problemi che si pongono a chi voglia condurre una ricerca 
scientifica su queste varieta linguistiche. In sostanza, Dialetto, dialetti e italiano 
costituisce allo stesso tempo un’introduzione allo studio dei dialetti ed una riflessione 
sulle questioni pil’ importanti che riguardano la ricerca dialettologica. L’autrice non 
indulge nel tecnicismo ma direi che riesce a presentare un contenuto altamente 
specializzato in modo scorrevole e comprensibile anche ai non addetti ai lavori. 

Il volume é diviso in dieci capitoli, ognuno dei quali analizza un aspetto specifico 
della problematica dei dialetti. In ogni capitolo ci sono poi dei quadri di approfondimento 
su alcuni temi di particolare interesse. I] primo capitolo, “Dialetto e lingua”, ha carattere 
introduttivo in quanto l’autrice presenta i criteri comunemente usati per distinguere 
lingue e dialetti e fa un breve excursus della storia dell’evoluzione del dialetto dal latino 
parlato, passando attraverso la formazione dei volgari come lingue vive e parlate, per 
arrivare infine alla perdita di prestigio delle parlate locali sotto la pressione 
dell’italianizzazione. Il secondo capitolo, “Il dialetto opaco”, affronta il tema 
dell’influenza dei dialetti sull’italiano attraverso l’analisi di importanti aree lessicali, 


605 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


quali quelle legate all’antroponomia e alla toponomastica. La ricostruzione della 
provenienza dialettale di molti cognomi italiani e della perdita nel tempo della coscienza 
del legame storico fra il nome e il suo antico riferimento, costituisce una delle sezioni pit 
interessanti di questo saggio. L’autrice mostra come alla perdita del dialetto si 
accompagni l’opacita di molte delle parole di origine dialettale, cioé il non 
riconoscimento del loro significato da parte dei parlanti. Il terzo capitolo, “I! dialetto 
trasparente”’, illustra invece il fenomeno opposto, cioé il riconoscimento, |’accettazione e 
l’uso per svariati fini comunicativi di forme dialettali da parte di diversi gruppi sociali. 
Interessanti in questo capitolo sono i dati sulla presenza del dialetto nei linguaggi 
giovanili. L’autrice riporta infatti risultati di inchieste recenti in diverse citta italiane che 
dimostrano l’esistenza di una certa vitalita del dialetto in ambito giovanile, 
particolarmente fra i maschi delle scuole medie e superiori. In questo capitolo si affronta 
quindi, in una certa misura, il carattere innovativo che l’uso del dialetto pud assumere in 
alcuni ambiti della societa italiana. I] capitolo seguente, “II dialetto arcaico”, guarda 
invece ai tratti che legano il dialetto al passato e alle forze che ne determinano la 
scomparsa 0 la sopravvivenza. Marcato analizza per esempio la scomparsa di parole 
appartenenti ad aree lessicali legate alla quotidianita contadina, ma anche la 
sopravvivenza di forme arcaiche nella parlata di immigranti. Partendo da questi dati, 
l’autrice fa delle stimolanti riflessioni sul profondo legame fra parole, cose, luoghi e 
pratiche sociali. 

Il capitolo quinto, “Il dialetto e la cultura intellettuale”, approfondisce la riflessione 
sull’interesse antropologico dello studio dei dialetti dimostrando come molte parole ed 
espressioni dialettali siano nate dall’accesso popolare a certe pratiche religiose e 
giuridiche che ha permesso il passaggio di parole ed espressioni colte alla lingua di tutti i 
giorni e la loro sopravvivenza tra i parlanti odierni, anche se questi ultimi spesso ne 
ignorano l’origine. Nel capitolo sesto, “Il dialetto in citta”, l’autrice affronta il tema 
dell’articolazione diatopica e diastratica dei dialetti, mostrando come le classiche 
distinzioni tra dialettologia urbana e rurale non riflettano pit le complesse stratificazioni 
della societa moderna giacché citta e campagne non sono pili necessariamente due realta 
internamente omogenee. D’altra parte Marcato nota come altrettanto complessa sia la 
relazione fra l’aspetto diatopico e quello diastratico delle varieta linguistiche perché, cosi 
come non si puo dare per scontata |’equazione dialetto-campagna o dialetto-periferia, allo 
stesso modo non si pud dare per scontatal’equazione dialetto-classi sociali basse. Si 
citano qui vari studi che fanno fede di questa complessita e si illustrano nuovi strumenti 
messi a punto dai linguisti italiani per arrivare ad un quadro non schematico della 
distribuzione delle varieta sul territorio e fra le classi sociali. 

Il capitolo settimo riprende i temi classici della sociolinguistica italiana ed in questo 
senso é forse anche il meno originale del volume. Marcato definisce il concetto di 
continuum e ne esemplifica l’applicazione attraverso una discussione delle varieta 
diatopiche — in particolare l’italiano regionale, la koiné e il dialetto locale — e 
diastratiche, in particolare l’italiano popolare. II capitolo ottavo, “II dialetto parlato e il 
dialetto scritto”, si propone di dimostrare |’inadeguatezza di una visione del dialetto come 
fenomeno prevalentemente orale. Qui |’autrice presenta dunque una esemplificazione 
della varieta di testi dialettali esistenti in forma scritta e include anche una interessante 
riflessione sulle differenze nel processo di produzione dei testi scritti che derivano dalle 
diverse competenze linguistiche di coloro che scrivono e dalle possibili funzioni dello 
scritto. L’excursus sulla letteratura dialettale appare tuttavia alquanto superficiale dato 


606 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


che la vastita del campo avrebbe permesso una trattazione pit esaustiva del tema. II 
capitolo nono, “Fonti e strumenti per la conoscenza del dialetto”, é€ dedicato ad una 
rassegna critica delle opere principali (vocabolari, grammatiche, atlanti, ecc.) prodotte sia 
in passato sia in periodi pil recenti per descrivere e catalogare i dialetti italiani. Marcato 
riflette sia sulle difficolta concernenti la descrizione dei dialetti derivate dalle 
metodologie spesso poco scientifiche che hanno guidato |’elaborazione di tali opere, sia 
sulle scelte che hanno invece permesso di cogliere la complessita della distribuzione delle 
competenze dialettali nel nostro paese. 

Nell’ultimo capitolo, “Le aree dell’Italia dialettale”, l’autrice affronta il classico 
problema dei criteri di classificazione dei dialetti italiani e delle varie proposte avanzate 
in tal senso, ripercorrendo le tappe della riflessione linguistica sul tema, dal De vulgari 
eloquentia di Dante fino alla proposta di Pellegrini sull’italo-romanzo. Nella seconda 
parte del capitolo, Marcato illustra poi alcuni fenomeni fonologici, morfologici e lessicali 
che esemplificano la distribuzione dei dialetti in aree geografiche ampie. Da segnalare é il 
quadro sulla metafonesi che illustra molto bene non solo questo fenomeno ma anche le 
sue funzioni linguistiche. 

Come si pud osservare da questa breve descrizione, il volume di Carla Marcato 
fornisce un panorama molto completo e succinto dei dialetti italiani e dei loro rapporti 
con l’italiano, abbinando la discussione di temi classici della dialettologia italiana 
all’illustrazione di fenomeni recenti o la rivisitazione critica di questioni studiate nel 
passato. Un pregio del libro é la costante presenza della riflessione metodologica e 
teorica, un aspetto derivato dalla migliore tradizione sociolinguistica italiana, cui tuttavia 
non sempre si da sufficiente spazio nei manuali di dialettologia. 

Anna De Fina, Georgetown University 


Anna Camaiti Hostert and Anthony Julian Tamburri, eds. Screening Ethnicity. 
Cinematographic Representations of Italian Americans in the United States. Via Folios 
30. Boca Raton, FL: Bordighera, 2002. Pp. vii + 374. 

This book is a collection of essays about how Italian American characters are mediated 
and constructed in some American movies. All seventeen essays are in English and most 
authors are scholars from the United States or Italy, with one exception from France. 
Topics are broad, ranging from the films of Frank Capra to those of Martin Scorsese, and 
include various themes in popular movies produced in the United States from the silent 
era until the late nineties: the Italian mother, the “bad guys,” masculine identity, the 
Mafia. In their brief introduction, Hostert and Tamburri explain that, before this 
publication, there was only a handful of books on contemporary Italian American cinema, 
compared to numerous publications on other racial/ethnic backgrounds. 

In the first chapter, Francisca Canadé Sautman argues that “Italian immigrants of the 
1890s and even 1910s and 1920s were not considered ‘really’ white, and if not actually 
black, shaded to black, bringing the white identity of their descendants under suspicion” 
(3). Thus, in the eyes of people living in the early 20" century, most Italian Americans 
were considered marginalized, often seen in a distinctive way. If there were linguistic and 
cultural differences between Italian Americans and “others,” they could not be viewed as 
racial issues, but rather in terms of class, power, social status, and consequently 
stereotypes: “In the realm of representation Italian Americans still inhabit the racial 
‘middle ground,’ as an in-between culture that is racially, politically, and sexually 


607 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


explosive and inferior, translated on the screen through a consistent syntax of otherness” 
(10). I would add to this statement the fact that, still today, these attitudes are seen as 
interesting to show and to communicate for many foreign reporters commenting on 
current Italian news. 

In the second chapter on “The Italian Mother: The Woman Within,” Dawn Esposito 
argues that from the early 20" century, the construction of the Italian woman in films was 
opposed to the Victorian type, who was a “nervous, hysterical and sexless entity who 
submitted to her conjugal duties only out of desire for maternity” (42). Here, a 
comparison between the roles played by actress Sophia Loren on each side of the ocean, 
decade by decade, would have been quite interesting, even though the author brings 
valuable insight on more recent films, from a feminist perspective. 

In his chapter on the Mafia, Ben Lawton presents some informative data: since 
1928, Hollywood has produced 1,057 movies dealing with Italian culture; only one 
quarter of these are positive depictions, and three quarters show a negative representation 
of Italians (73). Some famous films about Italian Americans even seem “to glorify what 
is self-evidently unacceptable criminal behavior (The Godfather, Goodfellas)” (71). The 
problem is that some scriptwriters and filmmakers have often come to link freely a few 
lasting stereotypes with Italian culture and tradition. As a consequence, “far too many 
[movies] seem to suggest that certain kinds of behavior are intrinsically Italian American 
(Some Like It Hot, Mean Streets, Prizzi’s Honor, Analyse This, Mickey Blue Eyes)” (71). 
Lawton’s conclusions are quite provocative when he argues that African Americans 
could not be shown as gangsters or brutal characters since D. W. Griffith’s controversial 
Birth of a Nation (1915); likewise, Jewish Americans would not tolerate to see a Jewish 
“bad guy” since Confessions of a Nazi Spy (1939), which depicted Jewish characters as 
victims (83). 

Many essays deal with the controversial cable TV series The Sopranos, probably 
because it is so rich in stereotypes and clichés about Italian American characters, even 
more so than The Godfather or Saturday Night Fever. Is this series so popular because it 
is controversial and provocative, or just because it is commercial, widely advertised and 
commented in popular magazines? As several authors in this volume, Karen Pinkus 
comments on this TV series set in New Jersey, whose forthcoming episodes are even 
announced on CNN news (290). Other articles mention American filmmakers’ 
fascination with the Mafia. Frank Capra’s films are also widely discussed, maybe because 
the Sicilian-born filmmaker did not include much Italian background in his movies until 
his late A Hole in the Head (1959), as John Paul Russo explains (299). For this project, 
Capra almost had to compromise with Jewish American author Arnold Schulman, who at 
first refused to change some of the Jewish characters from his play into Italian American 
ones for Capra’s script (298). 

Quite a few of the most inspiring chapters use comparative methodologies. With a 
very original approach, French author Dorothée Bonnigal’s essay compares Martin 
Scorsese’s Raging Bull with Luchino Visconti’s Rocco and his Brothers (145); Vito 
Zagarrio’s brillant chapter “The Italian American Imagery” compares authors such as 
Martin Scorsese and Spike Lee, and later Frank Capra and Francis Ford Coppola, in their 
respective visions of myths and roots in a North American context, from an ethnic 
perspective and from one generation to another (133). 

In sum, Screening Ethnicity is a useful and inspiring collection of essays of uneven 
strength, most of them paving new ways for future research on ethnicity, social 


608 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


representations, and Italian American studies. It gives a specific account of how 
American Italian characters can be imagined in mass cultural media such as feature films, 
and these methodological approaches could help open the doors to newer topics, such as 
how other white ethnic groups (for instance, French and French-Canadians) were 
portrayed in U. S. movies. Quite obviously, these cinematic representations do not 
present the truth, nor do they depict the accurate reality about the real Italian American; 
but many people believe they do so and unconsciously rely on those clichés to understand 
a different ethnic universe. 

But as Ben Lawton explains in the book’s best chapter, concepts such as “race,” 
ethnicity,” and the “mafia” are “like nation states, they are arbitrary constructs” (70). For 
this reason it is so important for scholars to define and analyze these fundamental 
concepts in order to reveal their secret and shared meanings. 


Yves Laberge, /nstitut québécois des hautes études internationales, Québec 


Valeria Finucci. The Manly Masquerade: Masculinity, Paternity, and Castration in 
the Italian Renaissance. Durham, N.C.: Duke UP, 2003. Pp. 216. 

In this original contribution to the history of sexuality, Valeria Finucci examines the 
cracks and fissures in the edifice of masculinity and paternity during the Italian 
Renaissance. Much has been written about the construction and performance of 
femininity according to the standard of the male subject, but in the world Finucci evokes 
this standard turns out to be anything but reliable: Finucci’s is a world where fatherhood 
has a dangerous rival in spontaneous generation, where a man can become a father 
without sexual intercourse with a woman; it is a world where a mother’s imagination can 
erase the father’s influence on their child and where fathers have their little boys castrated 
for the sake of music and social advancement. Finucci examines a staggering number of 
texts from many different disciplines — legal and medical treatises, political and 
philosophical classics, religious archives and theological tracts, and particularly literary 
and theatrical texts — in order to explore some of the major ways in which masculinity 
and paternity (as well as, more than incidentally, femininity and maternity) were 
constructed and deconstructed in Italy during the sixteenth century. 

The book is divided into an introduction and six chapters. The introduction, “Body 
and Generation in the Early Modern Period,” in addition to presenting the main 
arguments of the book, provides some necessary background information on theories of 
generation and the roles of men and women in this process. The first chapter, “The 
Useless Genitor: Fantasies of Putrefaction and Nongenealogical Birth,” interprets the 
beliefs in spontaneous generation, parthenogenesis, male pregnancy, and women’s 
gestation of non-human fetuses as belonging to a neurosis related to inadequate scientific 
explanations. Finucci also suggests more theoretical explanations, such as the decentering 
of the subject and the fulfillment of a dream of no origins. In the next chapter, “The 
Masquerade of Paternity: Cuckoldry and Baby M[ale] in Machiavelli’s La Mandragola,” 
the author presents a close reading of the plot of Machiavelli’s 1518 play in conjunction 
with Renaissance herbal medicine and the early modern fear of spiders. This 
interpretation reveals a libidinal economy informed by a non-biological paternity: 
paternity is established by a husband’s legal right over his wife’s body, and this bond is 
stronger than any genetic connection. The title of Chapter Three is “Performing 


609 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Maternity: Female Imagination, Paternal Erasure, and Monstrous Birth in Tasso’s 
Gerusalemme liberata.” Like the preceding chapter, this one also focuses on a single 
literary text of the Italian Renaissance, although the problematic parent is now the 
mother: the character of Clorinda in the Liberata must die because of her monstrous 
nature, produced by her mother’s pregnancy. In addition to being a woman, a pagan, and 
a warrior, Clorinda is an Ethiopian (a people thought of as monstrous because dark, 
cannibalistic, and sexually overactive) and an example of racial intermixing (she was 
born white of black parents). Chapter Four, “The Masquerade of Masculinity: 
Erotomania in Ariosto’s Orlando furioso,” reads in the bawdy story of Astolfo and 
Jocondo (found in canto 28 of Ariosto’s masterpiece) a shifting construct of masculinity 
as a masquerade, one in which even the most aggressive virility is no guarantee of male 
power. The next chapter, “Androgynous Doubling and Hermaphroditic Anxieties: 
Bibbiena’s La calandria,’ examines the cross-dressing, gender bending, and sexual 
confusion of Bibbiena’s play within the context of Renaissance theatrical practice and 
sexual customs. Unlike the preceding four chapters, the last one, “The Masquerade of 
Manhood: The Paradox of the Castrato,” does not concentrate on a literary text but rather 
on a cultural practice: the surgical treatment of male sexual organs for musical purposes, 
a practice whose inception, though mysterious, is connected with the Italian Renaissance. 
It was usually an indigent father who would have one of his sons castrated in hopes of 
fame and fortune for the boy: castrati were more desirable than women singers to both 
impresarios and the public (but ironically also, at times, as lovers to women). Finucci 
examines castrati’s sexual identity and preferences — with a much greater variable than 
stereotypes would suggest — and Freud’s reduction of castration from treatment of 
testicles to removal of the penis and, especially, his identification of the castrator as 
woman, despite clear evidence that, historically, it was men that castrated each other. 

The Manly Masquerade is a marvelous book, a must for anyone interested in the 
early modern period or in the history of sexuality and reproduction. It is unified in 
content and structure, original in its approach, amazing for the variety and quantity of the 
texts it examines. Although the richness of the materials Finucci studies and quotes 
sometimes leaves the reader hungry for more answers to the many questions the materials 
suggest, this turns out in the end to be a quality, and not a fault, of the book, which 
generously gives the readers a gentle guidance and the relative freedom to draw some of 
their own conclusions. 

Cristina Mazzoni, University of Vermont 


610 Annali d’italianistica 2\ (2003) 


BRIEF NOTICES 
Edited by Anne Tordi 


Cristina Bragaglia, ed. Scritture e riscritture. Film/Letterature. Bologna: Gedit, 
2002. Pp. 127. 

In this issue of Film/Letterature, the essays range from a study of the works of the French 
director, Jean Luc Godard, by Ada Lanzaro to Shakespeare’s The Tempest by Novella 
Zanelli. Among the other essays are: “Conversazione conclusa” by Silvia Cavalieri; 
“Riscrivere la tradizione” by Elisa Tisselli; “Bond e Batman. I] mito dell’eroe e 1 suoi 
doppi fra mainstream e autorialita” by Fabio Benincasa e Francesco Rosetti. In this issue, 
the column “Prospero’s Books” is devoted to a discussion of the use of poetry in several 
films. 

Cristina Bragaglia, ed. Case tra parole e immagini. Film/Letterature. Bologna: 
Gedit, 2002. Pp. 106. 

This issue of the review Film/Letterature is divided into three sections. The first part is 
devoted to articles on houses in literature and film. It contains essays by Maria Rosa 
Alessandrini (“La vita domestica, gli arredi, i giardini in Inghilterra tra XVIII e XIX 
secolo”), Luca Reginelli (“La casa teatro di Visconti”), Orazio Marchetti (“II ruolo della 
casa in ‘Shining’. Da Stephen King a Stanley Kubrick”), and Elisa Tisselli (“Orrende 
case: inquietanti dimore del cinema e della letteratura horror”). Part two, entitled “Libri 
di celluloide,” contains articles by Fernaldo Di Giammatteo, M. Novella Zanelli, Orazio 
Marchetti, Elisa Tisselli, and Giulia Quintaba. Book reviews appear in part three under 
the heading “Prospero’s Books.” 

Giovanni Meili. Don Chisciotti and Sanciu Panza. Trans., introd., and notes Gaetano 
Cipolla. New York: Legas, 2002. Pp. 316. 

This volume brings to English-speaking readers the Sicilian poem by humorist Giovanni 
Meli in side-by-side translation with the original. In this retelling of the Don Quijote 
story, however, the hero is Sancho Panza. Written in the last quarter of the 18"" century, 
the poem is “a revisiting through a Sicilian perspective of the archetypal couple.” “Sanciu 
and Don Chisciotti embody the quintessential dilemma between optimism and 
skepticism, idealism and pragmatism that troubles the Sicilian soul.” 

Giose Rimanelli. Gioco d’amore / Amore del gioco. Poesia provenzale e moderna in 
dialetto molisano e lingua. Isernia: Cosmo Iannone, 2002. Pp. 170. 

Book one, “Gioco d’amore,” contains four songs by the Provengal poet, Jaufre Rudel 
(1125-1148), with translations into the dialect of Molise as well as Italian: “Quan lo rius 
de la fontana,” “Pro ai del chan essenhadors,” “Lanquan li jorn son lonc en may,” and 
“No sap chanter qui so non di.” The section concludes with Rudel’s vida. In book two, 
the poets translated range from Ennius and Catullus to Anna Akhmatova and Octavio 
Paz. 

Cesare Ruffato. Scribendi licentia. Poems in the Paduan Dialect. Ed. and trans. into 
English Luigi Bonaffini. Brooklyn, NY: Legas, 2002. Pp. 104. 

A collection of verse by the poet (born in 1924), who is a practicing physician in his 
native Padova. In the preface, Giulio Ferroni observes that Ruffato’s dialect is the 
instrument “of an obsessive investigation of the sense of reality, carried out through the 
struggle with words, with their multiple facets, with their ever variable meanings.” 


611 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Antonello Catani. Viaggio con la straniera. Le scommesse 151. Torino: Genesi, 2002. 
Pp. 68. 
Antonello Catani was born in Cagliari in 1944 and has resided in Greece since 1985. This 
collection of his poetry contains the following selections: “Scali di mare,” “Sinfonia di 
mare,” “Giornali di bordo,” and “Lo spirito della danza.” 
Il giubileo. Roma: Istituto nazionale di studi romani, 2000. Pp. 90. 
This collection of essays contains the following contributions: “‘Fins de siécle’ e giubilei 
nella letteratura francese: dal senso della crisi all’attesa” by Alberto Beretta Anguissola; 
“Gli Zingari e il giubileo del Papa Martino V” by Markov Jatov; “Riflessi del giubileo 
sui generi letterari inglesi” by Gloria Corsi Mercatanti, followed by an Appendix entitled 
“Curiosita in un itinerario ‘tipo’ per la Citta eterna nel XV secolo”; and “Il giubileo e il 
viaggio a Roma dei franco-canadesi” by Matteo Sanfilippo. 
Stephen Massimilla. Forty Floors from Yesterday. / Quaranta piani da ieri. Trans. 
into Italian Luigi Bonaffini. Boca Raton (FL): Bordighera, 2002. Pp. 124. 
A collection of verse by the New York poet and winner of the 2001 Sonia Raiziss-Giop 
Foundation Bordighera Poetry Prize. 
Renaissance Quarterly 56, 2 (Summer 2003). 
The articles contained in this issue are: “Giorgione’s Tempest, Studiolo Culture, and the 
Renaissance Lucretius” by Stephen J. Campbell; “Appropriating the Instruments of 
Worship: The 1512 Medici Restoration and the Florentine Cathedral Choirbooks” by 
Marica S. Tacconi; “Placement, Gender, Pedagogy: Virgil’s Fourth Georgic in Print” by 
Andrew Wallace; and “Montaigne on Property, Public Service, and Political Servitude” 
by Constance Jordan. A review essay, “Voices Unfettered: Recent Writings on and by 
Early Modern Englishwomen” by Brenda M. Hosington, follows. The remainder of the 
issue is devoted to book reviews. 
Symposium 56, 3 (Fall 2002). 
This quarterly journal in modern literatures contains the following articles: “The Legend 
of Fra Vicents in European and Catalan Culture” by Robert Richmond Ellis; “La 
paraddjica historia de una olvidada en Bajo el oscuro sol de Yolanda Bedregal” by Willy 
O. Mufioz; and “Between Sound and Fury: Assia Djebar’s Poetics of ‘l’entre-deux- 
langues’” by Michéle E. Vialet. A review essay of Dennis McCort’s Going Beyond the 
Pairs: The Coincidence of Opposites in German Romanticism, Zen, and Deconstruction 
by Paul J. Archambault is followed by Dennis McCort’s response. The issue concludes 
with a review of Armine Kotin Mortimer’s Writing Realism: Representations in French 
Fiction by Amy S. Wyngard. 
Dominique Bax, ed. Pier Paolo Pasolini. Alberto Moravia. Collection “Magic 
Cinéma”, 11. Bobigny (France), Théatres au cinéma, 2000. Pp. 227. 
This special issue — thicker and larger than a standard book — on Pier Paolo Pasolini 
and Alberto Moravia is a real treat for those who read French. The issue contains 
countless excellent articles on the filmic production of both writers, interviews with Jean- 
Claude Biette and Sergio Citti, plus an unreleased script by Pasolini titled “The last 
expressionnist poet” (66-68). The book is divided in two parts: the essays on Pasolini 
cover pages 10-170, while those on Moravia cover pages 172-227. 

Yves Laberge, Institut québécois des hautes études internationales 


612 Annali d’italianistica 21 (2003) 


Pier Paolo Pasolini. Dans le coeur d’un enfant. Tal cour di un frut. Bilingual edition 
(Friulan and French). Trans. and introd. by Virgil Scandella. Collection “Un 
endroit ou aller”. Arles (France) : Actes Sud, 2000. Pp 107. 
This French re-issue of the early poetry (1941-1951) by Pasolini was originally published 
in Italy in 1953 (Tricesimo: Friuli Editore) and again in 1974, with the help of Luigi 
Ciceri, a faithful and understanding friend of Pasolini. This is a bilingual edition of 
poems written in Friulan, with a French translation by Virgil Scandella. Although he 
learned to speak Italian first, Friulan was the dialect spoken by Pasolini’s mother. He 
used it mostly in his 20s to write poetry : 
«Mari, mari ven dis : 

Soiu to fi o un muart ? 

...Consolansi, ciantan. » (80). 
In French, the translator wrote : 
« Mére, mére, viens, dis-moi : 

Suis-je ton fils ou un mort? 

... Consolons-nous, chantons.» (81) 
In English, I could translate these verses as follows: 
« Mother, mother, come, tell me: 

Am I your son or a dead man? 

... Let’s console ourselves, let’s sing.» 

Yves Laberge, Institut québécois des hautes études internationales 
Pier Paolo Pasolini. Douce et autres textes. Trans. and introd. by Marguerite Pozzoli. 
Collection «Lettres italiennes». Arles (France): Actes Sud and Hubert Nyssen 
éditeur, 2000. Pp 231. 
This posthumous work by Pier Paolo Pasolini (1922-1975) contains various early texts in 
prose, a diary from 1946 and 1947, and unfinished novels from 1948 and 1949, but no 
poetry. These works were written in Italian and only published from 1994 to 1998, under 
the title Romanzi e racconti (Milano: Mondadori). Most of these pages are here translated 
in French for the first time. Some of these short stories are set in the region of Friuli, and 
others deal with homosexuality.Those familiar with Pasolini will notice the 
autobiographical references and situations that reappear later in other novels. 
Yves Laberge, Institut québécois des hautes études internationales 


Studi e Testi 
A Collection of Monographs 
sponsored by 
Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Directed by Dino S. Cervigni & Luigi Monga 


Augustus Mastri, ed. The Flight of Ulysses: Essays in Memory of 
Emmanuel Hatzantonis. Studi & Testi 1. Chapel Hill, NC: Annali 
d’italianistica, 1997. Pp. 360. $21. 

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 97-72098 

ISBN 0-9657956-0-8 

Rosamaria Lavalva. The Eternal Child: The Poetry and Poetics of 
Giovanni Pascoli. Studi & Testi 2. Chapel Hill, NC: Annali 
d’italianistica, 1999. Pp. 226. $21. 

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 99-072079 

ISBN 0-9657956-1-6 

Massimo Maggiari, ed. The Waters of Hermes / Le acque di Ermes. 
Studi & Testi 3. Chapel Hill, NC: Annali d’italianistica, 2000. Pp. 208. 
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 00-131648 

ISBN 0-9657956-2-4 

Giuseppe Conte. Le stagioni / The Seasons. Studi & Testi 4. Chapel 
Hill, NC: Annali d’italianistica, 2001. Pp. xvi + 136. $21. 

Library of Congress Control Number: 2001086991 

ISBN 0-9657956-3-2 

Daria Valentini & Paola Cart, eds. Beyond Artemisia: Female 
Subjectivity, History, and Culture in Anna Banti. Studi & Testi 5. 
Chapel Hill, NC: Annali d’Italianistica, 2003. Pp. vi + 196. $21. 
Library of Congress Control Number: 2003110677 

ISBN 0-9657956-4-0 

In preparation: 

Maria Domitilla Galluzzi. Vita da lei narrata (1624). Edition, 
introduction, and notes by Olimpia Pelosi. 

Robert C. Melzi. The Conquering Monk. The Story of El Mansur, an 
Eighteenth-Century Italian Cleric who Conquered Chechnya and 
Daghestan. With the translation of Boetti’s Relazione (Torino, 
Archivio di Stato) and the Biografia manoscritta (Torino, Biblioteca 
Reale). 


Send orders to: Annali d’italianistica, Inc., Chapel Hill, NC 27599- 
3170 

Each volume: $21 (paperback only). Add $3 for shipping and handling 
Fax: (919) 962 5457. Web site: http://ibiblio.unc.edu/annali/ 


Annali d’Italianistica 
http://www. ibiblio.org/annali _e-mail: <annali@metalab.unc.edu> 
VOLUMES SOLD OUT 
(unbound photocopy available at $15 each) 

1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 
2 (1984), Guicciardini 
3 (1985), Manzoni 
6 (1988), Film and Literature 
VOLUMES AVAILABLE 
4 (1986), Autobiography 
5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
9 (1991), Italy 1991: The Modern and the Postmodern 
10 (1992), Images of Columbus & the New World 
11 (1993), Goldoni 
12 (1994), The Italian Epic & Its International Context 
13 (1995), Italian Women Mystics 
14 (1996), Travel Literature 
15 (1997), Anthropology & Italian Literature 
16 (1998), Italian Cultural Studies 
17 (1999), New Landscapes in Contemporary Italian Cinema 
18 (2000), Beginnings/Endings/Beginnings 
19 (2001), Literature, Criticism, Ethics 
20 (2002), Exile Literature 
21 (2003), Hodoeporics Revisited 
IN PREPARATION 
22 (2004), Petrarch & the European Lyric Tradition 
23 (2005), Literature & Science 
ISSN 0741-7527 


1) Rates for U.S.A. & Canada: Individuals $20; Institutions $29; Agencies $27. 
Back issues: Add $3 per volume to above price. 2) Countries outside North 
America: Individuals $21; Institutions $33; Agencies $30. Back issues: Add $6 
per volume. Publication date: Fall. Checks, in U.S. currency, payable to Annali 
d'Italianistica, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 















Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 






The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 1909, links its distinguished 
past of internationally known faculty and alumni to a lively and timely 
intellectual exchange in the present. The Department offers M.A. & Ph.D. 
degrees in French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romance Philology. 












Faculty. More than twenty full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. 








Publications. The Department publishes: Romance Notes; The University o 
North Carolina Studies in the Romance Languages and Literatures; 
Hispanofila; and the journal of Italian studies Annali d’Italianistica, which 
sponsors the series of monographs entitled Studi & Testi 
(www. ibiblio.org/annali). 
















Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over five million volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research 
broaden the University library holdings. Cooperative purchasing and borrowing 
programs with Duke University and North Carolina State University enhance 
the holdings of the Davis Library. 













Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers numerous 
fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit Fellowships 
(including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-$15,000. Teaching 
Assistantships: $10,00-$15,000. Endowments enable the Department to offer 
supplemental scholarships to qualified students. Most students teach two or 
three sections of beginning language courses per academic year, according to 
their teaching experience and the University’s needs. 













Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and the 
Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by visiting 
the University’s website (www.unc.edu). For more information on the Italian 
graduate program, please visit the journal’s website: www. ibiblio.org/annali/ 












en ee 
>: on Nts * Sie edhne + dma @ 


re i ke 
wf @) 68 oO hess & 4 ea lonbeeiiay 
fe OP mes Gp - 81s | Aud 
7 . 


rr re CL) 

—s be teslsg = Nan ot 

a _ a _ 5 

ee einen 

So ay _ aioat 
So = -: ss al “es 

oe - 


; aha aan mye) 






iz OS =~ + 14 wht 1 weal exerts 
© tee © oe - :) @ ay aoriiley cay) @ 
- He ee tt eh! oe ere) 


Oo So - + te « . re 
> : en! oh eo golem 


ar + he easel 

7 eS ee ee 

a re er a! 
OO Oo - 

Oo oe arama 


ee _ SO 41. <60e8 seul) 





AdI 2005 
Literature and Science 

“At the beginning God made heaven and earth”: The first lines and pages of what the 
western world has come to call the book par excellence bring together belief and science; 
the spoken word and the written language; the world of human sentiments, images, and 
beliefs together with the world of things, matter, and facts. Not only from time 
immemorial, as the Bible and classical literature attest, but also since the Italian 
language’s earliest documents, literature has represented the findings of science as 
proposed by each epoch, while science, with its ever changing theories, probings, and 
discoveries, has always challenged, and still challenges, the humand mind’s virtually 
infinite ways of literary and poetic representations. 

Thus St. Francis looks up to the sky and invites the entire universe, and all human 
creatures within it, to praise the “bon Signore”; enthralled by the world’s immensity, 
Dante likewise admires “[I]a gloria di colui che tutto move [...].” By contrast, centuries 
later, a more skeptical spirit, Guicciardini, casts a doubt on his predecessors’ strong 
beliefs (“Erra chi crede che la vittoria delle imprese consista nello essere giuste e ingiuste 
[...]”); still later, Leopardi sees the world’s “immensita” as a nothingness where his 
“pensiero” enjoys “naufragar”; and finally, in the 20" century, Calvino investigates the 
intersections between the power of the human imagination with scientific discourse, and 
quotes Giordano Bruno, who describes human beings’ spiritus phantasticus as “‘mundus 
quidem et sinus inexplebilis formarum et specierum’ (un mondo o un golfo, mai 
saturabile, di forme e d’immagini).” Calvino thus formulates his position on these issues: 
“Ecco, io credo che attingere a questo golfo della molteplicita potenziale sia 
indispensabile per ogni forma di conoscenza” (Lezioni americane). 

Within this interconnected context that seeks to represent and explain reality, both 
visible and invisible, Annali d‘italianistica plans to devote, in the year 2005, its twenty- 
third issue to the perennial, at times uneasy, rapport linking literature and science in its 
unfolding throughout Italy’s literary culture. The volume’s editors welcome contributions 
that investigate, not just the presence of science in literature, but rather the 
epistemological and philosophical reasons for this presence, as well as the poetic manner 
in which scientific data, theories, and hypotheses are configured in literature; the ways in 
which these two disciplines exploit all human faculties — imagination, reasoning, 
intellect, etc. — in their respective and interrelated pursuits and discoveries, as well as 
the written language employed in communicating them; the ever changing challenges that 
new scientific data and discoveries present to literature, which has always sought to 
interpret and reconfigure science, whereas science seems to disregard, neglect, or even 
question the theoretical, ethical, epistemological, and intellectual possibilities inherent in 
every poetic discourse; in brief, the many areas in common and contrast between poetic 
and scientific discourse. Andrea Battistini, the author of many studies on literature and 
science, most appropriately writes: “The best approach should seek to overcome the 
artificial boundaries that are still set up between the two disciplines and that still continue 
nowadays as the heritage of Romanticism and Idealism, but also, at the same time, to 
recognize the peculiar and specific character of the intellectual constructs, discourse, 
fruition, and purposes of literature and science.” 

Ad! invites scholars to submit essays (due March 31, 2005) on the proposed topic. 
Prospective authors are encouraged to contact as soon as possible the journal’s Editor by 


e-mail (annali@metalab.unc.edu). 


se, 

near 
Painter in 
erings in 


his wand 


villages of southern Italy 


f Gerace, 


view oO 


3 
q 
S) 
Z 
ea 
C) 
3 
8 
Q 
~~ 


‘irs 


ainter. This 
tive of 


the narra 


1852), 


Leat's Joutnals of A Landscape 


os 


1888), the author of The F: 


to-reach 


(London, 


lithograph from 
bria 


fi, isa 
Southern Cala! 
some of the hardest- 


Loc 


was also an accomplished landscape p 


‘Edward Lear (1812- 





