


Adl 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
http://metalab.unc.edu/annali/ e-mail: <annali@metalab.unc.edu> 


EDITOR 
Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


ASSOCIATE EDITORS 

Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 

Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Edoardo A. Lébano, /ndiana University 

Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 


ADVISORY BOARD 

Andrea Battistini, Universita degli Studi di Bologna 
Ernesto G. Caserta, Duke University 

Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Franco Fido, Harvard University 

Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 

Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 

Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 

Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 

Paolo Valesio, Yale University 

Aldo Vallone, Universita degli Studi di Napoli 

Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 

Assistant Editor 

Anne Tordi, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


© 1998 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Editorial Policy 

Annali d’Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its 
cultural context, to foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of interest to 
a large number of Italianists. Monographic in nature, the journal is receptive to 
a variety of topics, critical approaches, and theoretical perspectives. Each 
year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and contributions are welcome. 
The journal is issued in the fall of each year. Manuscripts should be submitted 
with a Mcintosh or IBM compatible disk and should be accompanied by a 
stamped, self-addressed envelope. Authors should follow the MLA style for 
articles in English; articles in Italian should conform to the Ad/ style sheet. For 
all communications concerning contributions, address the Editor, Annali 
d'Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-3170, or post <annali@sunsite.unc.edu>. Provide e-mail address 
with all correspondence. 


Notes & Reviews 
This section occasionally publishes essays and review articles on topics treated 
in one of the previous volumes of Annali d’Italianistica. 


Italian Bookshelf 

Italian Bookshelf is edited by Dino S. Cervigni with the collaboration of Paolo 
Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Valeria Finucci, Francesco Guardiani, Albert N. 
Mancini, Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. The purpose of J/talian 
Bookshelf is to identify, review, and bring to the attention of Italianists recent 
studies on Italian literature and culture. /talian Bookshelf will cover the entire 
history of Italian literature. Ad/ will review books exclusively on the basis of 
their scholarly worth. To this purpose, junior and senior colleagues will be 
invited to collaborate without any consideration to academic affiliation and 
with an open attitude toward critical approaches. Contributions to this section 
are solicited. Scholars who intend to contribute are encouraged to contact the 
editors or one of the section’s permanent collaborators. Book reviews, to be 
submitted on a disk, should be sent to the Editor. For inquiries post 
<annali@sunsite.unc.edu>. Please provide e-mail address with all 
correspondence. 


Subscriptions 
Rates for U.S.A. and Canada: Individuals $18; Institutions $29; Agencies $27. 
Rates for countries outside North America: Individuals $18; Institutions $33; 
Agencies $30. Publication and shipping date: Fall of every year. Back issues: 
add $3. Checks, in U.S. currency, should be made payable to Annali 
d 'Italianistica. 


IN MEMORY 


OF 


GIAN-PAOLO BIASIN 


TIBOR WLASSICS 


GIOVANNI CECCHETTI 


Gian-Paolo Biasin, Professor of Italian Literature at the University of 
California, Berkeley, since 1981, died on August 23, 1998, after a long illness 
borne with extraordinary courage and tenacity. He is survived by his beloved 
wife Rita and son Giovanni, and will long be remembered with affection and 
admiration by innumerable colleagues, students, and friends in the world of 
italianistica and beyond. 

Gian-Paolo Biasin was born in Reggio Emilia in 1933, grew up near 
Modena, whose university he attended, and came to the United States on a 
Fulbright scholarship in 1957—S8; he returned to pursue graduate studies at the 
Johns Hopkins University, where he took his Ph.D. in Romance Literature in 
1964. He subsequently held tenure-track and tenured appointments at Cornell 
University and at the University of Texas at Austin before accepting his 
position at Berkeley. A specialist in the literature and culture of twentieth- 
century Italy, he was the author of six books and numerous articles and 
reviews. All his books except the first and the most recent (which appeared in 
Italy in late 1997) have been published in both English and Italian, to 
considerable acclaim on both sides of the Atlantic. His mature work, 
especially // vento di Debussy (1985; English edition, as Montale, Debussy, 
and Modernism, 1989), I sapori della modernita: cibo e romanzo (1991; 
English edition, The Flavors of Modernity: Food and the Novel, 1993), and Le 
periferie della letteratura. Da Verga a Tabucchi (1997) is nothing short of 
astonishing in its range and depth, deploying advanced theoretical and 
interdisciplinary perspectives with erudition and wit on a sound basis of 
historical and philological understanding. In many respects, indeed, Biasin’s 
work stands at the proverbial cutting edge of Novecento literary studies, 
pointing the way forward for the entire field. 

Biasin’s outstanding distinction in scholarship was repeatedly recognized: 
by his home institution (where he also served as Chair of the Department of 
Italian); by the Italian Government, which made him Cavaliere della 
Repubblica in 1987; by the Accademia italiana della cucina, which gave him 
its literary prize for J sapori della modernita in 1992; and — always most 
important to him — by his fellow Italianists: winner of the Presidential Book 
Award of the American Association for Italian Studies in 1995, he was named 
honorary President of that organization for 1997-98. Many readers of this 
notice will recall the plenary session in celebration of his career and 
scholarship that was a high point of the Association’s annual conference in 
April 1998; he held a packed room spellbound with a lecture on the poet long 
dearest to him, Montale, and there were tears in many eyes as he concluded 
with an indescribably beautiful reading of La casa dei doganieri. Gian-Paolo’s 
whole life might have been summed up in that moment: his deep love for 
literature, his great gift for teaching, his self-sacrificing dedication to students 
and colleagues, his penetrating critical insight, his wisdom, his humor, his 
fortitude, his integrity. He left us far too soon. We who knew and loved him 
now have long years ahead in which to cherish our memories, and to take the 
measure of how much we have lost. 

Steven Botterill, University of California, Berkeley 


Tibor Wlassics. How do we write in the face of silence? What can be said 
that might express an inexpressible sense of loss? I turn to the words of others. 
Writer John Berger has given us beautiful words about absence: “When a 
person dies, he leaves behind, for those who knew him, an emptiness, a space: 
the space has contours and is different for each person mourned. The space 
with its contours is a person’s /ikeness and is what the artist searches for when 
making a living portrait. A likeness is something left behind invisibly” 
(“Toward a Small Theory of the Visible”). Poet Antonia Pozzi wrote of 
silence rather than invisibility: “E poi—se accadra ch’io me ne vada— /restera 
qualche cosa / di me / nel mio mondo— /restera un’esile scia di silenzio/in 
mezzo alle voci” (“Novembre”). Tibor has left behind that invisible likeness 
and that exiguous silence, both of which are more eloquent than any words 
could ever be. As one of the greatest readers of poetry that italianistica has 
ever had, he knew the profound power of silence, blank spaces, and the 
unsayable toward which poetry reaches. Neither a poet nor an artist, I can only 
stutter, only fumble to paint his likeness as it is left behind invisibly to us. 

An autumn day, Pittsburgh 1967: The new professor of Italian has arrived! 
He will teach us Dante. We marvel at his energy, his passion, his visceral love 
of poetry, which is conveyed to us by his voice, his eyes, his pacing steps, his 
laugh: his incorporation, as it were, of the Commedia’s splendors. | still 
remember those lessons vividly: they have stayed with me and grown in 
meaning and value over the last three decades. I knew him first as a teacher 
who transformed his students, whose classes were lessons in the life of great 
literature and its essential role in our lives. We had no idea of what professors 
did, however, other than showing up in class and pouring forth knowledge. 
Only later did I realize how busy Tibor had been: article upon article; two 
books on Dante —Jnterpretazioni di prosodia dantesca (1972) and Dante 
narratore (1975), both of which should be required reading of every student 
of the poem—and then Galileo critico letterario (1974) and Da Verga a 
Sanguineti (1974). Later Tibor founded /ectura Dantis, the journal into which 
he poured heart and soul for many years and which is indelibly etched with his 
exquisite care. For many, Tibor was exclusively a scholar of Dante, but his 
“perfect pitch” extended to the poetry to be found in a wide range of texts and 
periods. His magisterial entry on “Italian Poetry” in the 1993 Princeton 
Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics—another piece that should be required 
reading for all students of Italian literature—is an astonishingly profound 
history of Italian poetry from the Duecento to today, and it contains gem after 
gem of critical insight. Tibor was, for all his life, enamored of poetry, be it in 
verse, in prose, or in silences between words. He knew that the maximum 
effect is most achieved with the simplest detail; that great poetry always 
invades us, becomes part of us, and never leaves us alone again; that aesthetic 
bliss” (as his beloved Nabokov put it) is perhaps as close to grace as we can 
ever come on this terrestrial sphere. 

In spring 1998, at our last encounter, Tibor created one more time what for 
me is his enduring likeness: He read some poetry to me, and then, with a 
smile, softly murmured: “Now that is great . . . that is just great.” Yes, Tibor, 
grande davvero. 

Rebecca West, University of Chicago 


Giovanni Cecchetti (12/7/1922 - 5/12/1998) s’é spento serenamente la 
mattina del 5 dicembre in un ospedale di Los Angeles dove era stato 
ricoverato la sera del giorno precedente. E difficile immaginare Giovanni 
“sereno”: lui, uomo di vitalita irrequieta, di passioni, di crucci, di drammi; ma 
con la morte non aveva mai né altercato né discusso né mostrata la propria 
grande generosita, come soleva fare con tutti gli amici, anzi ne aveva parlato 
con dolcezza speciale in alcune poesie, come quella in morte del fratello. Per 
questo si sara presentato all’appuntamento supremo con la serenita di chi non 
ha conti da saldare con un ospite possessivo ma giusto perché non toglie 
niente al nome che uno lascia sulla terra. 

Come voleva essere ricordato Giovanni? Egli teneva moltissimo al ruolo di 
insegnante che aveva svolto in varie universita americane. Laureatosi a 
Firenze con Casella, era venuto in America nel 1949, ed era approdato a 
Berkeley dove insegno letteratura italiana. Si trasferi alla Tulane University, 
quindi a Stanford e infine a UCLA. Presente fino agli ultimi anni a congressi e 
a conferences, dominava podii e platee con la sua personalita, con il suo 
sapere, che era vasto e vario. E a questo ruolo di “missionario della cultura’, 
come amava definirsi, si deve anche la sua attivita di critico e di traduttore. 
Come critico privilegid il periodo romantico e moderno — ma fece pit d’una 
incursione nel mondo dantesco e rinascimentale — dandoci moltissimi 
contributi, libri, articoli e recensioni. Indispensabili rimangono i suoi lavori su 
Pascoli e su Verga. Come traduttore si impegno esclusivamente con la prosa, e 
classiche rimangono le sue traduzioni di Verga e di Leopardi. 

Se l’insegnamento e la saggistica costituivano l’aspetto “pubblico” di 
Giovanni, |’attivita poetica e creativa apparteneva al suo mondo privato; ma 
sara questa attivita a conservarne il nome anche quando non ci saranno piu 
studenti o colleghi suoi a ricordarlo. I molti libri di poesia che Giovanni ha 
scritto a partire dalla fine degli anni sessanta lo consacrano decisamente poeta 
“maggiore”, con una voce inconfondibile in cui una preziosita quasi 
baroccheggiante pitt che ermetica vibra di note esistenziali che si placano 
nell’attingimento di una metafisica senza pil tempo, senza pili luoghi, che 
chiarisce la condizione umana per via negativa. Pil recentemente veniva 
esperimentando con un genere che chiamava “scartafacci”, una sorta di 
cartoline lucianesche o pensieri alla Leopardi da cui trapelano un umore 
irresistibile e un temperamento di moralista formato sull’insegnamento dei 
classici. 

Giovanni era un Ulisse intellettuale, curioso di terre nuove, ma oculato nella 
scelta dei porti, perché era un intellettuale autentico la cui unica politica 
culturale era quella di apprendere, di osservare e di comunicare le proprie 
scoperte. Ora |’odeporicon di Giovanni si ¢ concluso. Tocca a noi rileggere la 
sua opera: egli non ci sorprendera pil con nuovi libri, ma ci stupira 
continuamente e felicemente con la freschezza e |’attualita della sua voce, che 
nelle creazioni autentiche e grandi é destinata ad essere perpetua. E il 
rimpianto per la sua compagnia fisica sara pil dolce. 

Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 
Chicago 7 Dicembre 1998 


AdlI 2000 
... Beginnings/Endings/Beginnings .. . 

Books and the human beings who write them; the historical and literary periods in 
which both artifacts and their authors are situated; the books’ internal structures and 
material configurations as well as their authors’ lives: in brief, every human being’s 
life and all human artifacts are, by their intrinsic nature, situated within a beginning 
and an ending. At the same time, the purpose of every individual, humankind as a 
whole, and the sum of all their activities and products, is to create ever new 
beginnings in order, as it were, to postpone indefinitely the ineluctability of one’s 
and humankind’s end. The conclusion of the second millennium and the beginning 
of the third millennium of the Christian era, in spite of or perhaps precisely because 
of such endings’ and beginnings’ artificiality, offer a most appropriate time — a 
unique and privileged kairos — to investigate the meaning and function of, as well as 
the many relationships between, beginnings and endings. 

AdI 2000 — to be entitled . . . Beginnings/Endings/Beginnings . . . — intends to 
provide scholars of Italian culture and literature, as well as comparativists and 
theorists, with an open forum to investigate theoretical issues and specific literary 
and historical texts in order to shed light on the function of, meaning of, and 
interrelationship between the beginning and the ending of human artifacts, 
endeavors, and human lives themselves. 

Many are the specific issues Ad/ invites scholars to pursue: The author’s 
challenge in finding a beginning for one’s work, the re-creation of beginnings, 
through chapters, cantos, stanzas, etc. within the same work, and the challenge of 
finding a conclusion or even closure; the ending’s looking back to the beginning, 
which anticipates the work’s conclusion, and the intrinsic characteristics of the 
unfinished work, whose incomplete structure may contradict the author’s initial aim 
toward closure or perfection; the work made known or published posthumously, a 
word that in antiquity referred to the child’s birth after the father’s demise; and the 
historical and literary period within which works come to life, are made public, 
become known, or fall into oblivion. Also, the authors’ and their literary characters’ 
lives, in their beginning, unfolding, and ending, may be appropriate objects of 
investigation for Ad/ 2000, just as such traditional topics as millennianism and 
apocalypse, chaos and ultimate conflagration. On such topics as apocalypse, chaos, 
and the world’s end, the critical literature is virtually limitless. On endings and 
beginnings in literature we have such classic studies as Frank Kermode’s The Sense 
of an Ending (London: Oxford UP, 1966) or the recent investigations by Aldo 
Nemesio (Le prime parole. L’uso dell’incipit nella narrativa dell’Italia unita, 
Alessandria: Edizioni Dell’Orso, 1990) and Giulio Ferroni (Dopo Ia fine. Sulla 
condizione postuma della letteratura, Milano: Einaudi, 1996). 

Ad] invites scholars to submit essays (due spring 2000) on the proposed topic. 
Prospective authors should contact as soon as possible the journal’s Editor by mail 


or e-mail ( annali@metalab.unc.edu). 


ANNALI D’ITALIANISTICA 


Volume 16, 1998 


Italian Cultural Studies 


11 Robert Dombroski. Forward 
15 Paolo Barlera. Toward a Genealogy and Methodology 
of Italian Cultural Studies 


31 Bette Talvacchia. The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist. 

49 Walter Zampieri. Brunelleschi e il Grasso 

65 Margaret Adam Groesbeck. “Tra noi non resto piu di differenza”’: 
Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando furioso 

85 Deanna Shemek, Books at Banquet: Commodities, Canon, and 
Culture in Giulio Cesare Croce’s Convito universale 

103 Daria Valentini, Amore e ginnastica 


121 Margaret Brose, Dido’s Turn: 
Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La terra promessa 
145 Karen Pinkus. “Black” and “Jew”: 
Race and Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 
169 Rebecca West. Lost in the Interstices: 
A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 
195 Jacqueline Reich. Consuming Ideologies: Fascism, Commodification, 
and Female Subjectivity in Mario Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 
213 Ellen Nerenberg. Love for Sale or That’s Amore: 
Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 
237 Alan R. Perry. Fallen Partisans: 
Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 
261 Kriss Ravetto. Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking 
of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 
281 Marie Orton. De-Monstering the Myth of the Terrorist Woman: 
Garanda, Braghetti, and Mambro 
297 Graziella Parati. The Legal Side of Culture: 
Notes on Immigration, Laws, and Literature in Contemporary Italy 


315 Eugenia Paulicelli. Le narrative della moda, egemonia, genere, 
identita. 
359 Francesco Sberlati. L Arcangelo e i grammatici. 


Antonio Gramsci storico della lingua 


365 ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 
Edited by Dino S. Cervigni with the Collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo 
Costa, Valeria Finucci, Francesco Guardiani, Albert N. Mancini, Massimo 
Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 


The Feminist Encyclopedia of Italian Literature. Ed. Rinaldina Russell. 
Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood, 1997. (Barbara Zaczek 365). Italian 
Cultural Studies: An Introduction. Ed. David Forgacs and Robert Lumley. 
Oxford: UP, 1996. (David Ward 366). Paul Colilli. The Idea of a Living Spirit: 
Poetic Logic As a Contemporary Theory. Toronto Studies In Semiotics. 
Toronto: Toronto UP, 1997. (Armando Maggi 369). Graziella Parati. Public 
History, Private Stories. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1996. (Rosalia 
Colombo Ascari 371). Gian Biagio Conte. The Hidden Author: An 
Interpretation of Petronius’s Satyricon. Trans. Elaine Fantham. Sather Classical 
Lectures, 60. Berkeley: U of California P, 1996. (David Marsh 373). Emilia 
Ferreiro, Clotilde Pontecorvo, Nadja Moreira, Isabel Garcia Hidalgo. 
Cappuccetto Rosso impara a scrivere, Scandicci (Firenze): La Nuova Italia, 
1996. (Robert C. Melzi 375). Monica Farnetti, ed. Geografia, storia e poetiche 
del fantastico. Firenze: Leo S. Olschki Eitore, 1995. (Rosalia Colombo Ascari 
377). Donato Pirovano. Modi narrativi e stile del Novellino di Masuccio 
Salernitano. Pubblicazioni della facolta di lettere e filosofia dell’ Universita degli 
studi di Milano, 168. Sezione di filologia moderna 23. Firenza: La Nuova Italia 
Editrice, 1996. (Janet Levarie Smarr 379). Maurizio Palma di Cesnola. 
Semiotica dantesca: profetismo e diacronia. Memoria del tempo, 4. Ravenna: 
Longo, 1995. (Christian Moevs 381). Stefano Prandi. // “diletto legno”. Aridita 
e fioritura mistica nella Commedia. Saggi di “Lettere italiane”, 46. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1994. (Steven Botterill 383). Amilcare A. Iannucci, ed. Dante: 
Contemporary Perspectives. Toronto Italian Studies: Major Italian Authors. 
Toronto: U of Toronto P, 1997. (Christian Moevs 384). Stephen Murphy. The 
Gift of Immortality: Myths of Power and Human Poetics. Madison: Fairleigh 
Dickinson UP, 1997. (David Marsh 386). Patricia E. Grieve. Floire and 
Blancheflor and the European Romance. Cambridge Studies in Medieval 
Literature, 32. Cambridge: UP, 1997. (Gloria Allaire 388). David Wallace. 
Chaucerian Polity: Absolutist Lineages and Associational Forms in England 
and Italy. Stanford: UP, 1997. (Catherine S. Cox 389). Bartolomeo Cerretani. 
Ricordi. Ed. Giuliana Berti. Firenze: Olschki, 1993. Bartolomeo Cerretani. // 
dialogo della mutatione di Firenze. Ed. Giuliana Berti. Firenze: Olschki, 1994. 
(Ross Brooke Ettle 392). Laura Cereta. Collected Letters of a Renaissance 
Feminist. Ed. and trans. Diana Robin. The Other Voice in Early Modern Europe. 
Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1997. (Gloria Allaire 396). Charles Stanley Ross. The 
Custom of the Castle: From Malory to Macbeth. Berkeley: U of California P, 
1997. (Jo Ann Cavallo 398). Dennis Looney. Compromising the Classics: 


Romance Epic Narrative in the Italian Renaissance. Detroit: Wayne State UP, 
1996. (Michael J. Hemment 400). Alberto Casadei. La fine degli incaniti. 
Vicende del poema epico-cavalleresco nel Rinascimento. Milano: Francoangeli, 
1997. (Mauda Bregoli-Russo 402). Tullia d’Aragona. Dialogue on the Infinity of 
Love. Trans. and introd. Rinaldina Russell and Bruce Merry. Chicago: Chicago 
UP, 1991. (Paola Malpezzi Price 404). Tomaso Garzoni. La piazza universale di 
tutte le professioni del mondo. A c. di Paolo Cherchi & Beatrice Collina. “I 
millenni”. 2 voll. Torino: Einaudi. (Gino Casagrande 406). Gregory, Heather, 
trans. Selected Letters of Alessandra Strozzi. Bilingual edition. Berkeley, CA: U 
of California P, 1997. (Leslie Zarker Morgan 409). // soggetto e la storia: 
biografia e autobiografia in L. A. Muratori. Atti della II giornata di studi 
muratoriani (Vignola, 23 ottobre 1993). Biblioteca dell’Edizione Nazionale di 
Carteggio di L. A. Muratori, IX. Firenze: Leo S. Olschki, 1994. (Gustavo Costa 
411). Neera. Lydia. Lecco: Periplo, 1997. (Anna Maria Torriglia 412). Franco 
Zangrilli. Pirandello e i classici. Da Euripede a Verga. Firenze: Cadmo, 1995. 
Franco Zangrilli. Le sorprese dell’intertestualita: Cervantes e Pirandello. 
Torino: SEI, 1996. (Anthony Costantini 414). Paola Casella. Strumenti di 
filologia pirandelliana. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 1997. (Tullio Pagano 417). 
Daniela Bini. Pirandello and His Muse. The Plays for Marta Abba. Gainesville: 
UP, 1998. (Giovanni R. Bussino 420). Robert S. C. Gordon. Pasolini: Forms of 
Subjectivity. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1996. ( John P. Welle 422). Cristina 
Della Colletta. Plotting the Past. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1996. Alba 
Amoia. 20th-Century Italian Women Writers. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 
1996. (Flavia Brizio-Skov 424). Giorgio Cavallini. Montale lettore di Dante e 
altri studi montaliani. Roma: Bulzoni, 1996. (Massimo Maggiari 429). Andrea 
Zanzotto. Peasants Wake for Fellini’s Casanova and Other Poems. Ed. and 
trans. John P. Welle and Ruth Feldman. Urbana: U of Illinois P, 1997. (Luigi 
Bonaffini 430). J limoni. La poesia in Italia nel 1996. A cura di Francesco De 
Nicola e Giuliano Manacorda. Marina di Minturno: Caramanica, 1997. 
(Massimo Maggiari 432). Francesco Brusco. Stagioni. Chiavari: Edizioni 
Libreria, 1998. (Flaminio Di Biagi 433). Peter Bondanella. Umberto Eco and 
the Open Text: Semiotics, Fiction, Popular Culture. Cambridge: UP, 1997. 
(Millicent Marcus 434). Giuliana Morandini. The Café of Mirrors. Trans. and 
Introd. Luisa Quartermaine. Exeter: U of Exeter P / Northwestern U, 1997. 
(Carole C. Gallucci 436). Franco Zanfrilli. // fior del ficodinndia. Saggi su 
Bonaviri. Quaderni dell’Istituto di Storia dello Spettacolo Siciliano. Acireale: La 
Cantinella, 1997.(Simona Wright 439). Adriana Cavarero. Tu che mi guardi, tu 
che mi racconti. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1997. (Sarah Hill 442 ). 

Brief Notices. Tomaso Kemeny. Melody. (Massimo Maggiari 444). Arturo 
Onofri. Ciclo della terrestrita del sole. Terrestrita del sole — Vincere il drago! 
Massimo Maggiari 445). Lucente, Gregory. Crosspaths in Literary Theory and 
Criticism. (Anne Tordi 445). Ridolfi, Carlo. The Life of Titian. (Anne Tordi 
445). Archeografo triestino. (Anne Tordi 446). 


se _ 







s 
=f= * a Oo 9rd ade Se? oa asf tiieniocawtt 
14h WH tnenuies” 6 ry 
we, ee em Serta 


ro Ata, Ug, te ee 
' eshte mm AML it Neptity 
_ f Soa yy | Ss ‘Lee xy 
Cw GS ena, ' ¢ wer 


is YR we 1S ' 
‘(692 of 18 Os te 
.eoeee Ty 





| | ee ee ea 
eee te wm  @e 6 tr.AiW enprhe >) imme feet 
‘>. ee eT ee, 


me 8 OS et" me ay ay emf SO 
e? er) en ere witha ts ela 
r , Yara Set g. I” aig 









as ee otats NMabiv- 4 
RT any 


Robert S. Dombroski 


Forward 


In contrast to cultural studies as practiced in Great Britain and the United States, 
Italian cultural studies, it is fair to say, is still in its infancy. What progress cultural 
studies has made in establishing itself as a field of study in its own right has taken 
place largely outside of Italy: in Britain, where the term originated, and in the 
United States, where the niche that cultural studies has found in contemporary 
academic life now has expanded to include Italian culture. The anthology of Italian 
cultural studies recently published under the editorship of David Forgacs and 
Robert Lumley gives some indication of the new perspectives that have opened up 
on the study of modern Italy across the disciplines, while the present volume shows 
the influence cultural studies has had on the criticism of scholars trained mainly in 
the field of literature. 

Many of the factors that explain why cultural studies has not staked out a 
domain in Italy have been covered by Forgacs and Lumley in their introduction to 
the collection. Surely, part of the burden of neglect must be shouldered by Italy’s 
humanist and philological traditions that together have worked to form an 
intellectualist concept of culture which has affected a whole range of contrasting 
ideologies; part, by the still traditional and clientalistic nature of the Italian 
academy, which tends to smother unsanctioned initiatives. As a result, the scholastic 
book industry in Italy has found little or no incentive in promoting interests devoid 
of institutional support. Furthermore, the Italian thinker whose work would best 
support a cultural studies discourse, Antonio Gramsci, has suffered — in Italy more 
than elsewhere — the vicissitudes of heated political conflict, whereby to involve 
him in the formation of a commitment to the study of cultural practices would seem, 
to say the least, suspect. Then, one would expect that the celebrity of Umberto Eco, 
who played an important role in making cultural studies into an academic discipline, 
would have had more of a formative influence on Italian academic life than in effect 
it has. But we must not forget that Eco wrote his ground breaking reflections on 
mass culture and the role of the intellectual in the media in the sixties, at a time 
when Italy had much less of a mass culture than it has today; when faculties of 
literature and philosophy, so steeped in tradition and reluctant to dispose of their 
Crocian heritage, would have found it difficult to think of culture as a 
communication phenomena and of semiotics as a preferred instrument of analysis. 
In Italy, Eco’s strong, modernizing influence has had its greatest impact on 
Communications departments, themselves products of comparatively recent 
formation. If we add these factors to the relative compactness and homogeneity of 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert S. Dombroski. 


12 Robert S. Dombroski 


Italian society, that is to say, the lack of those circumstances which might have 
fostered the migration into Italy of non-Italian intellectuals and their entry into the 
academic disciplines and the public sphere, it is not hard to understand why the 
cultural studies phenomenon has been late in developing in Italy. By comparison, 
cultural studies in Britain and the United States, which was influenced to an 
important degree by the personal experiences of emigrant intellectuals from the 
Third World, was founded in part on the real experience of crossing cultural 
borders. Finally, when Italian cultural studies, and cultural studies in general, 

becomes mature enough to do a cultural studies analysis of itself, it will have to 
address the different political conditions which have affected its respective origins. 
By this I mean the recent histories of the left in Western Europe and, in Italy, the 
power base enjoyed by Marxism in the humanities and the social sciences, as well 
as the largely de-politicized “correctness” that seems to inspire and animate the 
interest in the United States for subaltern discourses and popular culture. If cultural 
studies is, as I believe, one of the positive effects of the current de-valuation of 
“great narratives,” we must now assess the gains to see what this new brand of 
Marxism has accomplished politically, and whether its installation in the academy 
as a discipline among others has changed anything at all. Although it may be too 
early to tell, I think that cultural studies has become, or is potentially, an obstacle 
in the path of the right’s desire to control the curricula in the universities. The 
symptoms of reaction are now widespread, especially within the domain of Italian, 
where cultural studies, viewed as an umbrella term for a host of non-literary pursuits 
(some regarded as scandalous), has become a demon to exorcize in the name of 
traditional philological and historical scholarship. But this, as much as it may be 
discouraging to those hoping to embark on a career in Italian, may be a strong 
indication that cultural studies has now become an adversary to be reckoned with. 

I think most would agree that the principal case made today for cultural studies 
in the United States — one that has had in some schools a positive impact on 
administrators looking to cut costs — is that it promotes learning that is 
interdisciplinary and trans-disciplinary. This is not to say that there is no intellectual 
Justification for the move toward inter-disciplinarity and that economics is the cause 
of the investment, but rather that economic considerations have made the pursuit of 
such a goal more desirable for the American academy. In the United States, the 
transformation of the traditional discipline of Italian literary studies into Italian 
studies is an intelligent and pragmatic way of managing the losses Italian has 
suffered on account of the drift, especially in public universities, toward 
vocationism and the decrease in interest in the humanities. In other words, the 
ideology of inter-disciplinarity can be considered also a practical construct created 
by academic realities. 

The Italian system of higher education, it could be argued, has always put a 
premium on inter-disciplinarity since it requires that students pass exams in a 
number of fields related to their major interest. However, the kind of inter- 
disciplinarity present in the Italian university curriculum is not exactly what I think 


Forward 13 


cultural studies is calling for. Cultural studies is concerned much less with the 
quantity of than the approach to knowledge. And however important inter- 
disciplinarity might be to a cultural studies perspective, it is not its main ingredient. 
Cultural studies, in the way it has been theorized in the United States and Britain, 
embraces a broadly anthropological and more narrowly humanistic conception of 
culture, while arguing the need to study all forms of cultural production in relation 
to other cultural practices, as well as to society and history. In Italy, there has been 
no fear of moving in the direction of popular culture and film, nor of articulating the 
study of literature with that of art and the social sciences; feminist and gay studies 
have also been legitimized, and, recently, ethnic and post-colonial studies seem to 
have taken hold. What has been lacking is a cultural studies discourse: namely an 
ideology that goes beyond its material base, forcing the practitioners of criticism to 
theorize their relationship to culture. It is no small paradox that the intellectual left 
in Italy, a country in which Marxism has played a concrete role in the development 
of contemporary institutions, has retained throughout the century a humanist- 
intellectualist concept of culture and has made little effort to question the institution 
of culture and the class privileges of intellectual groups; while in the United States, 
where Marxism has been excluded from all meaningful political practice, left 
leaning intellectuals and academics are more sensitive to disciplinary investments 
and exclusions. This takes us to the heart of what cultural studies is, or, better, what 
it does. Tony Bennett has made a fundamental point that helps give definition to 
a field without specific markers to delimit its range of interest, nor without a distinct 
methodology. To avoid cultural studies becoming anything anyone wants, or that 
it be acquired merely as a fashionable commodity, some boundaries must be set, as 
Tony Bennett does when he states that, however different the political and 
theoretical positions behind cultural criticism may be, they all “share a commitment 
to examining cultural practices from the point of view of their intrication with, and 
within, relations of power” (Grossberg et al., 1992, 3). Bennett’s position, firmly 
rooted in Gramsci’s definition of Marxism (“la coscienza piena delle 
contraddizioni, in cui lo stesso filosofo . . . non solo comprende le contraddizioni 
ma pone se stesso come elemento della contraddizione, eleva questo elemento a 
principio di conoscenza e quindi di azione” [Gramsci 1975, 1487]), also requires 
that in analyzing the relations of power the critic consider his/her place within those 
relations. In so doing, an awareness is gained of the compromise embedded in every 
research project, while at the same time avoiding being compromised by a pluralism 
that is forever staking out new markets to exploit. These simple instructions, which 
grow out of the best tradition of Marxist hermeneutics, prepare us to approach any 
and all forms of cultural production in the same way, namely as culture. Admittedly, 
the representations, for example, of Ugolino and Lucifer in the Commedia carry 
infinitely more cultural weight than, say, the fantastic figures of cannibals and 
vampires in popular literature, but, once we abstract from their aesthetic identity, 
high cultural function and claims to universality, and view them as products of 


14 Robert S. Dombroski 


intellectual work in relation to other social activities, they become no more, or no 
less, culturally significant than other monsters who speak to our feelings and ideas. 
There is no need here to rehearse the meaning and complexity of the word 
“culture,” that subtends cultural studies practices, for the question is not what 
culture is but rather which of its relevant definitions should be emphasized in 
scholarly practice. 

This volume, which includes a large variety of approaches to several different 
objects, deals with culture both as art, belief and institution, and as intellectual and 
artistic activity. It is not a book of theoretical positions, nor can it be defined 
according to any one particular political or cultural ideology. I would rather prefer 
to describe it as a book of tendencies, which gives for the most part some indication 
of the new work being done today in Italian studies in the United States. It is a 
relatively large and diverse body of work reflecting different points of view on 
different moments of conflict and negotiation within the social relations of different 
societies from the Renaissance to the present. The essays chosen for this volume 
broach, as one would expect in cultural studies, the fantastic and sexual dimensions 
of culture and cultural production (Grossbeck, Nerenberg, Pinkus, Ravetto, 
Talvacchia), issues of marginality and power (Parati, Shemek, Zampieri, Perry), 
hybridity (Orton, West), gender and identity (Paulicelli, Reich, Valentini), ideology 
(Brose), while the studies of Barlera and Sberlati with which the volume begins and 
ends, center, albeit in different ways, on Gramsci’s importance for the study of 
cultural forms. What holds these essays together is the emphasis they place, to a 
greater or lesser degree, on interaction and conflict, on the sites of cultural practices 
and on the particular circumstances in which cultural representation takes place. 


The City University of New York 


Works Consulted 


Forgacs, David and Robert Lumley, eds. /talian Cultural Studies: An Introduction. Oxford: 
Oxford UP, 1996. 

Grossberg, Lawrence, Cary Nelson, and Paula Treichler, eds. Cultural Studies. New Y ork: 
Routledge, 1992. 


Paolo Barlera 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology 
of Italian Cultural Studies 


A notion that seems to become more and more widely accepted among scholars, 
students, and opinion makers is that the origin of Cultural Studies in Italy can be 
traced back to, or at least put under the umbrella of the work of Antonio Gramsci. 
Undoubtedly, the views contained in Gramsci’s Prison Notebooks have much to 
share with contemporary formulations (by Harris, for instance) and not only 
regarding Italian culture(s): all specific manifestations of “cultural production” are 
for Gramsci historically and socially defined; moreover, each system or set of 
values can be seen as determined by the processes by which a certain social group 
tries to establish and preserve its identity. 

In broaching the subject, one may easily question the ideal continuity between 
Gramsci’s work and current cultural studies, especially in view of the fact that 
Gramsci’s Notebooks, written in the 1930s, was published only after the war, 
providing thus an example of sputtering uprootedness.' In addition, everybody 
seems today impatient to appropriate Gramsci: phenomena like the “gramscisme-de- 
droite” and the “Gramsci ‘R’ Us” terminology are just two of the most endearing 
and entertaining pieces of an exuberant “Gramsci industry.” 

But the issue that this paper will try to address is not one that deals with the 
appropriateness of Gramsci’s thought for cultural studies, since I will deal only 
indirectly with such questions as “Why and in what ways have Gramsci’s writings 
enabled and generated so much intellectual work?” (Watson 3).° The point, as a 


' Should we consider Gramsci’s Notebooks a cultural product of the post-war years, since 
nobody knew of it before? Or rather set it in its real historical context? The theoretical 
implications of such a choice are briefly discussed further below in this essay. 

> Watson’s commentary to this issue is exemplary: “Although Gramsci thought that cultural 
change tended to take place gradually rather than through ‘explosions’ (Prison Notebooks 
129), it is hard to imagine what other word to use when surveying the proliferation of 
material around the figure of Gramsci in the last few years. From so-called radical 
‘democracy’ to studies subaltern to cultural studies, Gramsci’s name is evoked, his writings 
are endlessly analyzed, his legacy is contested. . . . The sheer volume of work, and its 
engagement across a wide range of fields and disciplines in the humanities and social 
sciences, are no doubt testimony to the enduring relevance of Gramsci’s insights; they also 
suggest, however, that there is now a Gramsci industry — that within the academic market 
Gramsci represents significant currency, and writers (and publishers) are cashing in.” 

> One of the hypotheses is that Gramsci “seems to offer political solutions to the predicament 
of postmodernism (figured as decentering, arbitrary, ‘merely’ discursive), while at the same 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


16 Paolo Barlera 


colleague has pointed out to me, is that “if cultural studies critique has been willing 
to read most phenomena in Gramscian terms except for Gramsci himself, Italian 
cultural criticism cannot afford that.’* In order to pursue a “truer Gramscian 
project,” the focus has to be on origins: Was Gramsci a prophet in the desert? Were 
his intuitions and formulations an isolated phenomenon that anticipated current 
practices? In other words, can his work be considered a consistent, groundbreaking, 
field-establishing theory, or rather something connected to a wider context, 
uprooted from earlier critical practices? 

This paper will try to backtrack the “Gramsci phenomenon” in an attempt to 
outline the genealogy of Italian Cultural Studies and shed light on the methodology 
involved, while suggesting guidelines for further critical studies that strive to 
achieve a “Gramscian” status, beyond the reductionism of some who see in 
Gramscianism just a method to be applied insofar as it is useful for solving the 
impasse of post-modernism (Watson). 


1. Gramsci Inc. 

The extent to which Gramsci’s writings seem to anticipate cultural discussions has 
seldom ceased to surprise, and even more so today, when we can compare them to 
what is being advocated in the contemporary debate on cultural studies.” 

True enough, in his Prison Notebooks, Gramsci sets out to expose a series of 
reflections on the culture of his time. But, as we all know, his thoughts about culture 
emerge only occasionally as a unifying effort to produce a theory; rather, his most 
interesting analyses originate from the often effortless exploration of various 
subjects. The rubrics under which such musings can be found (for instance, by 
browsing the Notebooks’ index) are well known: the national and popular character 
of literature, the role of the intellectuals, the question of language, etc.° Most 
interestingly, Gramsci’s thoughts on culture seem to cluster, among others, around 
two main fields that bear a direct relationship with cultural studies: a) the 
exploitation of the masses (through the production of “commercial products” as an 
“opium” for the multitude) and b) the development of popular artistic expression 
(such as certain kinds of novel and/or opera). 





time appearing to surpass vulgar Marxist economism and historicism. To put it crudely, he 
is sufficiently Marxist to challenge postmodernism, and sufficiently postmodernist to combat 
Marxism” (Watson 4) 

“Tam grateful to Giorgio Bertellini for permission to quote from our private correspondence 
of June 1997. 

* See for instance Holub, who emphasizes how Gramsci “anticipates theoretical concerns 
which should become prominent in the second half of the twentieth century” (116). 

° It should be noted that Gramsci’s penchant for literature reflects not only the fact that he 
was educated through traditional channels, but also the condition of the literary field, where 
one could then (physically) see more “cultural products” (in the Marxist sense) than in other 
media. 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian Cultura Studies 17 


In his attention to commercial literature, Gramsci was discovering nothing new. 
The international success of the so-called fewilleton (the French-born serial novel 
or, in Italian, romanzo d’appendice, championed since the middle of the nineteenth 
century by Eugéne Sue’s Mystéres de Paris) and, before that, also the popularity of 
the historical novel and the opera,’ had certainly been the object of study by many 
critics. Gramsci indeed mentions (as if he could pick at ease) a number of articles 
from some of the most respected journals of the period (Cultural Writings 345-ff 
[Q3 §53, Q6 §54]); Marx himself had devoted a chapter of his pamphlet The Holy 
Family to Sue’s Mystéres de Paris. What triggers Gramsci’s interest is, of course, 
his concern with the kind of stuff that was being dished out to the masses: 


The “commercial” aspect comes from the fact that the “interesting” element is... doled out 
industrially, as a sure element of immediate “success.” Yet this means that even commercial 
literature must not be disregarded in the history of culture. Indeed it has enormous value 
precisely in this respect because the success of a work of commercial literature indicates . 
. . the “philosophy of the age,” that is, the mass of feelings and conceptions of the world 
predominant among the “silent” majority. 

(Cultural Writings 348 [Q5 §54]) 


In other words, Gramsci’s criticism of commercial literature is secondary to a more 
general critique of society. It is a task that becomes clearer with his own definition 
of the role of the “philosophy of praxis”: 1) to form a class of intellectuals; 2) to 
educate the masses.* One had to accept that the philosophy of praxis had devoted 
itself to the second part of the task, but it had not managed to “supersede” 
mainstream high culture (“marked by idealism”) —a culture that was still failing, 
in Gramsci’s words, to “elaborate a popular culture or to give a moral and scientific 
content to its school programmes, which remain abstract and theoretical schemas,” 
but that apparently was still holding tight on the lower classes. So, there were no 
doubts for Gramsci that efforts should be made to forge a new “class of 
intellectuals.” But it is not clear what these should do with commercial literature: 
To analyze and use it as an expression of the “spirit of the age’’? Or to fight it as the 
rank and file’s favorite “escape from reality”? Or to try to eradicate the “opium” 
that was intoxicating the young Italians (Cultural Writings 372-73 [Q21 §13])? 
There was, however, an artistic expression to be found in popular culture, too. 
Although popular culture did “contain” commercial works, continues Gramsci, the 
novel (especially in France and England) and music (especially in Italy) were 


7 For a discussion of the popularity of opera and historical novels like D’Azeglio’s Ettore 
Fieramosca in nineteenth-century Italy, see Biasin (48 ff). 

8 “The philosophy of praxis had two tasks to perform: to combat modern ideologies in their 
most refined form, in order to be able to constitute its own group of independent 
intellectuals; and to educate the popular masses, whose culture was medieval” (“The 
Philosophy of Praxis and Modern Culture,” Prison Notebooks 392). 


18 Paolo Barlera 


carrying the torch of truly popular art. And, most importantly, there was a reason 
worth noting in the analysis of this phenomenon, connected as it was to the 
“appearance and expansion of national-popular democratic culture throughout 
Europe” (Cultural Writings 378 [Q9 §66]). In this passage, Gramsci appears more 
directly concerned with the responsibility of intellectuals (i.e., lack of national 
writers vs. musical genius in Italy) than with the values of popular culture proper. 
He nonetheless delivers an eloquent cross-section of the popular cultural field: “As 
an artist, Verdi cannot be ‘compared’ to Eugéne Sue, even though Verdi’s popular 
fortunes can only be compared with Sue’s (although for the aristocratic— 
Wagnerian—aesthete of music, Verdi occupies the same place in the history of 
music as Sue in the history of literature). Second-rate popular literature (Sue and 
followers) is a politico-commercial degeneration of national-popular literature” 
(Cultural Writings 379 [Q9 §66]). 

To summarize: under the umbrella of a traditional conception of culture, in the 
sense of aiming at higher level of learning, Gramsci promotes the legitimacy of 
popular (not commercia!) culture, as well as the analysis of cultural products in their 
economic and social context. Out of the many innovating formulations that came 
from this attempt at theorizing, one is, from our standpoint, most interesting; that 
is, the relation between high and low forms of culture: “The philosophy of praxis 
is the crowning point of this entire movement of intellectual and moral reformation, 
made dialectical in the contrast between popular culture and high culture” (Prison 
Notebooks 395[Q1 §116]).’ Indeed, Gramsci’s views on popular culture have also 
played an important role in the contemporary debate on cultural studies, especially 
in bridging conflicting aspects of competing theories (Morrow 39, for instance). But 
was Gramsci’s interest in popular culture and the social conditions of cultural 
products something truly new? 


2. Who’s afraid of Benedetto Woolf 

It is well known that Gramsci wrote most of his Prison Notebooks in response to 
something he happened to read, or was reminded of, when reading in prison. What 
follows is that his critical analysis of intellectual life cannot be fully understood 
without relating it to the political, social and “cultural” forces that were at play 
during those years. And the strongest such forces—especially if we are interested 
in Italy’s philosophical milieu —were certainly the ideas laid out by Benedetto 
Croce. In the Italy of the 1930s, no one who wanted to discuss and analyze literature 
could abstain from referring to what were then the best-ranked and most widely 
accepted theories about aesthetics. In 1927, Croce had been invited by E. J. James 
to provide an essay on aesthetics for the 14"-edition of the Encyclopaedia 
Britannica. In his official letter, James wrote: “Dans le domain de |’esthétique, il 
ne peut étre question pour nous que d’un seul choix. Vos études, si profondes, si 


° On Gramsci’s approach to high and low culture, see also the comparison of Verdi and Sue 
quoted above. 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian Cultura Studies 19 


spirituelles et pourtant si claires, vous on fait l’arbitre unique des principes 
fondamentales de cette science dans le monde entier.”"” 

But Croce’s influence on Italian cultural mores did not come only from 
aesthetic boundaries; Croce saw clearly the connections between culture and 
politics (he eventually became a senator and minister of education ) and somehow 
suggested that the Italian political agenda be guided by “men of culture” who would 
act not as a parliamentary force, but rather as a “meta- or pre-party,” an elite with 
the task of shaping all policies (Abbate 153-54). In addition, as Gramsci would later 
note, Croce’s critical work brought him to theorize about all things that could have 
a political and ethical, hence cultural quality (Cultural Writings 104-ff [Q10/I §7)). 

In fact, what we may today call Gramsci’s approach to Cultural Studies aimed 
at reversing precisely Croce’s concept of “Culture” (capital C) as a redeeming 
opposition to the emerging mass society. In both critics, the appropriation of 
Culture was inscribed in an effort to grasp and disseminate the history of intellectual 
life in Italy. In the words of an Italian critic, “Croce aveva elaborato la sua 
[proposta] a partire proprio dall’Estetica, opponendo alle contraddizioni e ai 
movimenti della incipiente societa di massa una idea salvifica e compensativa della 
Cultura” (De Castris 8). And, if Croce’s treatment was in fact a product of the esprit 
du temps—‘una delle risposte attraverso cui la coscienza intellettuale tra i due 
secoli tentava di ricomporre la crisi della sua identita” —Gramsci’s understanding 
of intellectual life was targeted precisely to counter that position: “il rovesciamento 
dell’estetica in quanto teoria dell’individualita assoluta del pensiero e del 
trascendimento assoluto del mondo pratico.” His formulation would instead be 
geared toward reestablishing the bridge between the practical world and the 
intellectual’s critical Conscience, “nell’individuazione delle condizioni materiali e 
ideali della sua continuita e della sua durata attraverso stagioni pure diverse della 
vita culturale e politica italiana” (De Castris 9). Even though he never really 
attempted to formulate a consistent theory, Gramsci’s case-by-case analysis 
becomes a history of the material conditions that made specific cultural situations 
possible, and one that has well in mind the continuity of a specific critical practice 
(and certainly not in favor of the “anything-goes’”’). 

The fact that Gramsci built his cultural case against a Crocean background 
shows, I think, not only Gramsci’s tendency to ad hoc analyses (he proclaims: “an 
Anti-Croce could be written,” not “I am writing it”), but also his recognition of 
Croce as the true and most alarming antagonist—and this because he knew that 
Croce shared some of the same agenda, some of the same background and 
preoccupations." 


!° Quoted by G. Galasso in his postface to Croce, Breviario (257-58). Gramsci briefly 
discusses Croce’s essay in his entry “Croce and Literary Criticism (Cultural Writings 103 
[Q6 §124]). 

'' See for instance Gramsci’s comments on the relationship between Croce and De Sanctis, 
the nineteenth-century critic and historian whose historicism Gramsci was himself following 


20 Paolo Barlera 


Why was it then that both Croce and Gramsci were struggling over the 
ownership of culture and the ways to study it? Was it perhaps part of a more general 
trend? It can be argued that it was a general trend in the field of theorization,'? and 
it would seem so, from a certain point of view, even if a Kantian philosopher like 
Antonio Banfi saw the need to address the issue in his highly theoretical Principi 
di una teoria della ragione: 


Che altro significa infatti analizzare psicologicamente 0 socialmente un fatto culturale, se 
non metterne in luce, al di sotto del senso culturale, l’elementare composizione, ossia le 
forme fondamentali di relazione, secondo cui esso é potenzialmente in connessione agli altri 
fatti culturali, e sulla base delle quali la sua sintesi culturale stessa puo esser risolta e 


rinnovata? 
(215) 


We might, however, find a more fertile ground in the affinities (and then 
divergences) between Croce and Gramsci. As we shall see later, Croce’s 
philosophical education was also steeped in Marxism. In particular, Croce was to 
travel part of his road to criticism in the company of Marxian concepts because such 
ideas helped him in his fight against positivism and the dehumanizing appendages 
it had enacted in Italy. Even in the ever so elitist Breviario, we may find traces of 
Croce’s interest in “praxis”: exemplary is, for instance, the Appendix entitled: “The 
two worldly sciences—Aesthetics and Economics.” Here these two “modern” 
disciplines refer to “l’una alla praxis nella sua vita dinamica e passionale, e |’altra 
alle figurazioni della fantasia” (Breviario 185). Obviously, the traveling companion 
was to get quickly off Croce’s band-wagon as soon as the political implications 
would become threatening. 

Symptomatically, the opposition Croce-Gramsci reflects a wider point of 
division between idealist and materialist philosophies: whereas the former perceives 
culture ethically as an “ideal of human perfection,” the latter sees culture as a “body 
of intellectual work” (including both “high” and “low” manifestations). Very much 
to the point, the attempt to establish a definite relation between the complex of 
meanings and values acquired by man, as a member of society, and particular types 
of social and economic institutions, can be attributed to Marx’s influence.'* By the 
turn of the twentieth century, the debate between opposite camps, fueled by the 
emergence of industrial civilization, spread to most of Western Europe. 





(Cultural Writings 94-95 [Q23 §3]). 

'2 Watson points out that “comparing Gramsci’s and these various theorists’ [Benjamin, 
Lukacs, etc.] response to modernity—rationalization, technologization, the culture 
industry—is an important task, and one which has for the most part not been undertaken up 
to now” (7). 

'3 Ror some comments on Croce’s “anti-democratic” reaction to Socialism, see Abbate 154 
ff. 

'4 For an overview of the subject and related bibliographical references, see Morrow. 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian Cultura Studies 21 


Let us take a brief look at what was happening outside Italy. The problem and 
the term had probably had origin in Germany, where it grew in the context of a 
“romantic restoration” (seeking to oppose the depth of German culture to the 
“civilization” of the French Revolution), stretching up to Mann’s 1918 Reflections 
of an Unpolitical Man (Bobbio 97). A few years later, in 1927, Siegfried Krakauer 
published his essay on the “Mass ornament” and in 1936 Walter Benjamin released 
his celebrated analysis of the “Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical 
Reproduction.”"” In England, many intellectuals raised their voices in concern, if 
not in fear or contempt, for the impending surge and spread of mass culture.'® The 
new input brought by the masses was crucial, adding a pressing social background 
to concerns and critiques that had been around since, say, Matthew Arnold’s 
Culture and Anarchy (1868) and its endorsement of the “perfection” individuals 
should aim at (Eliot 22). 

By 1949, T. S. Eliot was in the position to write Notes toward a Definition of 
Culture. It was an attempt at driving home, after two painful wars, some of the 
issues that had been voiced in different contexts and still challenge us today: “As 
a society develops towards functional complexity and differentiation, we may 
expect the emergence of several cultural levels: in short, the culture of the class or 
group will present itself. It will not, I think, be disputed that in any future society, 
as in every civilised society of the past, there must be these different levels” (Eliot 
24). The road traveled, between political tugs of war, ideological regimes, and 
modernist schools, had been a rugged one, albeit one that, one way or the other, had 
taken “culture” by the belt and did not let go. 

In Italy, the milieu seems also to have been fertile. Croce, too, like Eliot, was 
in his own way a champion of the aristocracies of the mind; but for him the position 
of the “volgo” retained somehow a beneficial status, a sort of dialectical exegesis. 
Reviewing (with in mind its emphasis on the opposition between “aristocracy” and 
“populace”) the above-mentioned Confessions by Mann, Croce wrote: “E certo 
bisogna pure protestare contro il volgo. . . . Ma, fatto tutto cid . . . il volgo resta; 
resta perché opera (a suo modo, ben s’intende), e adempie i suoi molteplici uffici, 
tra i quali anche di stimolare ed accrescere, nell’aristocrazia, la coscienza 
dell’aristocrazia” (Pagine II, 142). So, even in his de profundis for the masses, 
Croce sees in them a place and a role; we will touch later on how these ideas 
solidified in Croce’s practices, but for the moment it will suffice to note the 


'S Tt is interesting, in this respect, to see John Carey setting Benjamin apart from his 
Frankfurt colleagues: “The Frankfurt theorists (except Benjamin) shared the view that mass 
culture and the mass media, as developed under capitalism, had degraded civilization in the 
twentieth century. They blamed radio, cinema, newspapers and cheap books for the 
disappearance of the inner life” (Carey 43). 

'© For a discussion of the entire phenomenon, see Carey, who cites the education reforms of 
the nineteenth century as one of the factors in this anti-popular surge, and the book by 
Ortega y Gasset, La Rebelion de las masas (1930) as one of its most influential manifestos. 


22 Paolo Barlera 


continuity between this assessment and Gramsci’s positive view of the state (Hall 
22). 

But the picture was not limited to the Gramsci-Croce duel. In fact, Gramsci’s 
Notebooks is unthinkable without the activity that precedes it in the years before 
World War I, as Italy witnessed an unprecedented flourishing of literary- 
philosophical journals. Leonardo, Lacerba, and La Voce are just a few. Each of 
them, each from a different perspective, tackled the cultural issues of the day by 
drawing on such diverse fields as psychology, pragmatism, sociology, politics, 
literature, etc.'? The general umbrella of “irrationalism,” under which the 
intellectual figures such as Prezzolini, Papini, Soffici, Corradini, and Borgese who 
animated these publications are usuaily placed today, works as a nice cover up of 
the different currents that made that season memorable. Nonetheless, it conjoins 
their efforts (probably rightly so) in the sense of being against the reason of 
positivism. And this—it will be helpful to remember—was thought to be something 
against the bourgeois, that is, the socialist reformers, and the academics.'® 

Even though everybody, from Prezzolini to Papini to Borgese, seemed to go 
out of his way to dictate what Culture (or at least part of it) should have been for the 
Italians, these periodicals were expressions of an elitist avant-garde that, in spite of 
its varied reputation, did not in fact analyze any aspect of culture. It is a safe 
assumption that they only coagulated some elements of the esprit du temps. Indeed, 
given the content of the journals or the conservative nature of their masters, this 
trend would not mean too much to our perspective, if it did not introduce the issue 
of culture/publishing. 

Gramsci himself puts forth in his Notebooks a detailed account of journalism 
in late 1920s-early 1930s Italy (Cultural Writings 412 ff. [Q24 §3-ff.]). It is clear 
from this section that we should consider not only the literary periodicals that have 
made the headlines in textbooks and anthologies, but also more obscure ones, like 
those cited here (Politica, Nuova Rivista Storica, etc.) or even Gramsci’s own 
journal, L’Ordine Nuovo. Furthermore, a gap emerges between Italian writers and 
the “popular reader,” with the former addressing the elite and the latter reading 
certainly not literary magazines, but sometimes newspapers, more often popular 
novels. Between writer and reader there is a third party, the publisher; and with him 
an entire set of economical issues: “The readers must be considered from two main 
points of view: 1) as ideological elements, philosophically ‘transformable,’ ductile, 
malleable, capable of transformation; 2) as ‘economic elements,’ able to buy and 
make others buy the publications. The two elements are in fact not always 


'7 The standard study on this subject is the multi-volume work edited by Scalia. 

'8 See for instance Papini: “Non c’é, nel nostro caro paese di parvenus, abbastanza teppismo 
intellettuale. Siamo nelle mani dei borghesi, dei burocrati, degli accademici, dei posapiano, 
dei piaccioni. Non basta aprire le finestre—bisogna sfondare le porte. Le riviste non bastano, 
ci vogliono le pedate” (qtd. Bobbio 55). 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian Cultura Studies 23 


separable, since the ideological element is a stimulus for the economic act of buying 
and distributing” (Cultural Writings 404 [Q14 §62]).'° 

Gramsci was reacting to the 1920s Italy, in which newspapers faced problems 
of circulation: in order to sell more copies, they had to publish (mostly French) 
serial novels (Cultural Writings 206 ff. [Q21 §5]). This situation led also to 
Gramsci’s complaints about the lack of Italian “national” and “popular literature,” 
as well as his questioning as to why serial novels were “popular.” But this issue was 
not only Gramsci’s own; many other critics spoke of it, as attested to by Gramsci 
himself in journals like Critica fascista, L’Italia letteraria and Pegaso (Cultural 
Writings 209 [Q21 §5]). We are not told what degree of popularity these 
publications enjoyed (as opposed to the serialized newspapers on the one hand and 
the literary magazines on the other); but it seems they must have enjoyed a wider 
circulation than, say, Gramsci’s Ordine Nuovo, since they regularly featured 
reviews of theater, cinema, etc. Among these journals, one should not forget 
Croce’s own creation: La critica. And one can only wonder if Croce, like Gramsci, 
considered his readers according to the double ideology/economy standard. In other 
words, did he have in mind the distinction he had drawn in his Breviario between 
“Scienza estetica” and “Scienza economica”? 

The picture, as anyone can see, has become somewhat complex. And before we 
can begin to answer the question “Why was everyone breathing on culture’s neck?” 
we should take a look at a perhaps not so secondary aspect of Croce’s work. 


3. Croce’s flip side 

It is beyond the scope of this paper to solve in a few paragraphs the issue of Croce- 
Gramsci relations, or to consider the consequences that Croce’s theories have 
carried onto Italian cultural practices. Instead, true to our inquiry into the genealogy 
of Cultural Studies in Italy, we ought to take into consideration another aspect of 
Croce: his work as an editor and historian. 

Curiously enough, Croce’s contributions are in this respect somewhat 
discordant with his theoretical profession. While his philosophical and esthetic 
views are expressly against “mass culture,” in favor of an elitist vision and the 
establishment of a rigid canon, his practical applications present us with a slightly 
different picture. In 1904 Croce had become an editorial adviser to the publisher 
Laterza in Bari and through this channel (as well as with his journal La critica) he 
exercised an ever increasing influence on Italy’s literary and academic world. Thus 
Croce’s editorial course was often based on the rediscovery of “popular” literature 
and even his critical militancy touched upon such subjects as nineteenth-century 
popular poetry.” By the same token, his historical approach benefited from the 


'° For specific comments on this engaging subject, see Ferretti 145 ff. 
?° In 1929, Croce published a short essay entitled “Poesia popolare e poesia d’arte.” Shortly 
after, he edited Giambattista Basile’s Pentameron, a collection of novelle in the vernacular 


24 Paolo Barlera 


revision of neglected periods and minor figures, in what can be seen as a 
preparation of the terrain for today’s micro-history.”! 

That he did that in order to reclaim particular “literary products” for the literary 
elite he was trying to feed and foster, or particular historical periods to undermine 
others (namely, the eighteenth century), whose philosophy he wanted to debase, 
does not detract meaning and substance from a methodological course he at least 
helped fashion. Such instigation can be attested to, for example, by the recognition 
that someone like Pasolini, wary as he was of the relations among language, 
culture(s), and cultural products, granted to Croce’s critique of popular poetry: “il 
saggio di Croce resta la pil completa panoramica sull’Ottocento folcloristico 
europeo, come I’unica che riduca una complessa e ribollente fenomenologia a una 
omologazione storiografica” (Passione 148). 

In more general terms, it would be hard to deny that Croce, before Gramsci 
(although urged by different intentions), had toiled to appropriate “culture” in an 
attempt to devise a “hegemonic” (to use a Gramscian term) critique. The fact is, 
Croce was not completely removed from Marxism as one might expect; on the 
contrary, from it he drew arguments “per combattere |’antistoricismo, lo studio 
degli accadimenti umani con il metodo delle scienze naturali, proprio del 
positivismo” (Bobbio 92). It was in his early career that Croce had studied 
Marxism; and in 1898 he had published a book entitled Historical Materialism and 
the Economics of Karl Marx. But it was not just a simple flash in the pan; according 
to Norberto Bobbio, in order to fully grasp Croce’s work we must reckon two 
tendencies that constantly informed it: “Realismo storico, di cui si ritenne debitore 
al marxismo, e antintellettualismo, che nella critica della scienza lo aveva portato 
a fianco dell’ irrazionalismo, furono due componenti costanti del suo pensiero. Nella 
battaglia antipositivistica fece il primo tratto di strada in compagnia dei marxisti, 
il secondo in compagnia degli irrazionalisti” (Bobbio 93). 

The fact that Croce had been closely watching Marxism may perhaps (or 
partly) explain why his interest in treating certain phenomena as “cultural products” 
came about, and even why he became committed to bringing up a methodology that 
provided for popular literature and the subordinate bodies of past epochs (at a time 
when this stuff was considered as obscure and/or second rate as the Middle Ages 
had been a while before). But the coexistence of an elitist theorization and a proto- 
popular practice raises a critical issue: How are we to evaluate Croce’s output of 
edited and historical works? Were they meant to improve Italy’s intellectual elite? 
Were they also meant to educate Croce’s disdained masses? Were they just a 
pastime, or something to keep his cash flow coming? 





prose of Naples, as well as the popular adventures of Bertoldo, Bertoldino e Cacasenno. 
*! See for instance Luisa Sanfelice (1764-1800) e la congiura dei Baccheri and Un prelato 
e una cantante del secolo decimottavo. Enea Silvio Piccolomini e Vittoria Tessi: lettere 
d'amore. 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian Cultura Studies 25 


It might be enlightening, at this point, to take a “fast forward” look at the 
course that critical practices (rather than pure theories) took during the twentieth 
century and see how practices emerged that could be seen as anticipations or 
straightforward examples of Cultural Studies. Before Fascism, Italy seemed to be 
taken by the storm of literary-cultural magazines. Croce’s aesthetic led to the 
rejection of naturalistic disciplines (and hence of sociology), but also to the 
reappearance of until then neglected (popular) authors; many were on the other 
hand troubled or irritated by (popular) phenomena such as the serialization of 
novels on newspapers. During Fascism, the guidelines and examples set by the 
Ministry of Popular Culture (or Min-Cul-Pop, for short) were overwhelming with 
their insistence on national-scale homogenization (based on Italy’s past grandeur), 
on the one side, and their emphasis on regional themes and agricultural heritage, on 
the other (Bollati 122 and De Grazia 210ff.). Generally, critics were also obliging 
toward new media: radio, comic strips, white telephones cinema, and other 
“products” found their way on the pages of newspapers and periodicals, praised or 
condemned according to the degree by which they reflected official regulations. 

In the postwar period, next (or often thanks) to the production of neo-realistic 
novels and films and the return to social sciences and anthropology, an anti-fascist, 
but also anti-Crocean leftist milieu could be soon discerned. Although the influence 
of Gramsci’s Notebooks was strong since their first appearance, his unique approach 
to cultural phenomena as a whole did not enjoy much attention. There were other 
problems, more urgent ones. But most of all, the “artistic” milieu was too 
homogenous (focused as it was on ruminating on “man and war”) and ideologically 
oriented to allow for debates on culture other than the famous exchange between 
Elio Vittorini and Palmiro Togliatti. Ironically, this confrontation sanctioned the 
embarrassed divorce between culture and politics in Italy.’ Only with the 1960s’ 
surge of consumerism and consequent studies on mass communications” was the 
Italian class of intellectuals able to find interest in and initiate studies that would 
place a particular “cultural” product in the context of its production. Was this 
interest mainly an import from abroad or was it also rooted in the Gramscian 
tradition? Was it a coincidence, for example, that many of the major cultural 
contender, from Marx to Gramsci to Eco, seem to have been fascinated (or 
disturbed) by Sue’s Mystéres de Paris? 

It is almost superfluous to note that Italian scholars and critics have (in 
practice) dealt with “cultural” issues both before and after Gramsci. Here one could 


22 «Quando filosofi e narratori, scienziati e poeti, architetti e giuristi avanzarono la richiesta 
di contribuire a ‘cambiare il mondo’, in applicazione della Glossa XI a Feuerbach, furono 
invitati a tornarsene a casa. La spiegazione addotta per la circostanza (anche se non 
formulata cosi esplicitamente) fu che la politica, in una situazione cosi tesa, era una cosa 
troppo seria per lasciarla fare agli intellettuali” (Bollati 199). 

3 In Italy, the obligatory reference is the work of Umberto Eco, notably his 1964 
Apocalittici e integrati. 


26 Paolo Barlera 


see a continuity in dealing with “cultural issues,” but it is more enticing to point out 
the emergence of patches where a specific interest in (and at times an obsession for) 
culture on the part of Italian critical studies can be pinpointed since the unification 
of Italy. Whenever there are ideological issues at hand (as in the case of the 
Vittorini/Togliatti debate, or Croce’s elitist affidavit) and, perhaps most 
importantly, whenever there are issues related to “Language” and the means to 
produce it,” there is always someone who cross-examines culture. And only when 
the “language of culture” is at issue, the effort is to put “cultural products” in their 
social context, linking every process to the class or group that is responsible for its 
creation. For instance, war does not threaten per se, but only if it involves the 
overthrowing of the hegemonic class (and its means of production).”° 

If, on the one hand, Croce dealt with cultural issues both ideologically (in his 
theorization) and media/linguistically (in his editorial practice), and, on the other, 
mass-media critics (Eco) dealt with similar issues almost exclusively from a 
media/linguistic (and economical) point of view, Gramsci is unique in that he 
recognizes in real time the theoretical and political importance of things that are 
changing in the production of culture, like the status of the national language with 
the increasing popularity of radio and cinema. As Pasolini, for example, points out 
(Passione 154-55), Gramsci did not conceive of popular literature as the traditional 
idiom of the lower classes, but rather the serial novel; namely, the literary stuff that 
was read and watched through the media to which people had by then access 
(newspaper, cinema, theater, etc.). Furthermore, this kind of responsiveness was 
geared (though incompletely) toward theorization, a fact that makes Gramsci closer 
to Cultural Studies today than the mass-medialists have probably ever been. 


4. Antonius Novus 

Critics who have warned about the predicament Critical Theory and /or Cultural 
Studies may find themselves if (as already appears from many quarters) Gramsci is 
applied as a blanket, devoid of any historical or political context. Indeed, some have 
not been far from suggesting that Gramsci is useful only because its work is usable 
as a milder version of Marxism with a nice suit for intellectuals.”° At the same time, 
the editors of Italian Cultural Studies, Forgacs and Lumley, argue in their 
Introduction to the volume about the continuity of these theories: the Crocean 


4 In one of his asides, in 1964 Pasolini wrote to a reader of Vie Nuove: “Si ricordi di 
Gramsci: ogni volta che si ripropone la questione della lingua, vuol dire che si ripropongono 
problemi sociali e politici di fondo” (Dialoghi 336). 

*° On the discounted relevance of war on cultural practices, see the famous article by Renato 
Serra, “Esame di coscienza di un letterato” (1915), but also Eliot’s Notes towards the 
Definition of Culture, written as World War II was unraveling. 

6 In his review of Renate Holub’s book on Gramsci, Watson complains that in certain 
usages “Gramsci comes to be evacuated of almost all substance, so that ‘Gramsci’ becomes 
a kind of cipher, merely a vehicle for addressing a contemporary crisis” (6). 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian Cultura Studies 27 


conception of culture as “education of the elites” and Gramsci’s programme for 
intellectuals (as opposed, we are led to assume, to the truly “innovative” practices 
of anthropologists like De Martino).”’ Then, is Gramsci interesting only within an 
historical perspective or are his writings useful only because they helped Cultural 
Studies to develop? or is his theory still applicable, and if so to what extent? 

It is undeniable that Gramsci was still thinking of culture in a context of 
“educational process” and “privileged role of the intellectuals”, and that there is a 
continuity between him and Croce. It seems however beyond the point to accuse 
either him or Croce of embracing the “wrong” kind of culture. The definition of 
culture they worked with was a particular one that derived from (mostly German) 
Idealism and they were naturally operating within its boundaries. The concept of 
culture as a “body of values, meanings, social patterns, rituals, etc.” developed quite 
independently (across Western thought) from literary, artistic and critical grounds.”® 
More to the point, what Croce may be held responsible for is keeping Positivism 
and social sciences at bay in Italy; and that is why (among other things) these 
disciplines have not reached (or reached only belatedly) a significant degree of 
development. On the other hand, Croce’s imprint can still be seen in scholars like 
De Martino, who developed methodologies that are today considered more 
culturally “correct” (4 ff.). 

But, if it is true that Italy has lagged behind (in regard to Social sciences and 
Cultural Studies) in the post-World War II period, it is also true that, in the years 
between the two World Wars, other Western countries were dealing with the 
problem of “culture” in terms that are not dissimilar from those implicit in Croce 
and Gramsci. Still in 1948, T. S. Eliot reported the term “culture” as “signifying 
something to be consciously aimed at in human affairs” and always associated to 
the “development of an individual, of a group or class, or of a whole society” (21). 
Only thanks to sources in the socio-political field (such as the Dwight MacDonald 
article, “A Theory of Popular Culture”), was Eliot able to make some hesitant 
advances (and not without the protection of an ironic touch) into an already shaky 
ground: 


the reader must remind himself as the author has constantly to do, of how much is here 
embraced by the term cu/ture. It includes all the characteristic activities and interests of a 
people: Derby Day, Henley regatta, Cowes, the twelfth of August, a cup final, the dog races, 
the pin table, the dart board, Wensleydale cheese, boiled cabbage cut into sections, beetroot 
in vinegar, nineteenth-century Gothic churches and the music of Elgar. The reader can make 
his own list. (Eliot 31) 


77 On the significance of the work of Ernesto De Martino, see in the same volume the article 
by Filippucci. It should be remembered, however, that also De Martino was indebted to 
Croce’s teaching, as the Italian anthropologist makes plain in the introduction to his Morte 
e pianto rituale. 

8 Eliot (22) traces it back to E. B. Tylor’s Primitive Culture, published in 1871. 


28 Paolo Barlera 


Let’s consider, then, some critical questions. Should we distinguish, from a 
methodological point of view, between “specific cultural products” (literary and 
artistic works) and the body of “values, meanings, social patterns, rituals, etc.” as 
acquired by a particular group? Strictly speaking, from the point of view of cultural 
anthropology, this distinction should cease to be, since the “body of values” ought 
to be inclusive of literary works, too. Secondly, should we consider cultural 
phenomena independently of their “level of expression”? We might. But we should 
be aware of the potential risks of finding ourselves presented with some “postcard 
piece” from a cute, ethnic locale. Any answer to any of these questions, as well as 
to other such as “How do we deal with ‘rival’ disciplines (sociology, anthropology, 
etc.), is not likely to find scholars in agreement and are probably subject to change 
as the field develops. To narrow it down, it might be more useful to ask whether in 
carrying out a cultural study we should assume specific, ad hoc common 
denominators such as condition of “production-for-consumption” (as opposed to 
the “anything-goes” of the potential anthropologist). 

It addition, it seems that only in an historical dimension may the critical 
question of culture be properly studied. Even in looking for an alternative to the 
“old” unilinear theory of cultural development, one cannot turn to a static 
relativism, but rather to some new kind, multilinear theory. And this we may find 
already in some of Gramsci’s work, where the “primacy of the material organization 
of life” qualifies a critical attention on cultural products as socially and historically 
defined, and determined by “hegemony” processes. 

Last, but not least, should we consider also Gramsci’s theory in its context of 
production?”’ In other words, if we decide to work in an historical perspective, the 
above considerations should be understood according to Gramsci’s “philosophy of 
praxis”; that is, historical materialism or Marxism. Are we ready to fully accept 
cultural studies as an extension of Marxist methodology? Much has been written 
about the elective affinities of Marxism and Cultural Studies (Harris, Morrow), and 
we shall limit our task to some observations on the risks of misusing Gramsci. 
These considerations include that “Gramsci as modernist is interesting precisely to 
the extent that he can also be characterized as a postmodernist ‘avant la lettre,’ as 
it were” and that “claims for Gramsci’s predictive capacity become increasingly 
removed from Gramsci’s writings themselves . . . turning him into a methodological 
rather than a political model.” And, most interestingly, that he “can be mobilized 


?° For that matter, all Cultural Studies contributions should be set in this perspective. 
Consider, for instance, the following questions: What does a study need to carry out or 
achieve to be properly “cultural”? A recognition by an academic setting or a “proper” use 
of certain theories? And does it have to necessarily criticize the traditional conception of 
culture as something aiming at “higher learning”? But then, is not the practice of Cultural 
Studies (criticizing old-fashioned views) a pursuit itself of better and therefore “higher” 
practices? 


Toward a Genealogy and Methodology of Italian Cultura Studies 29 


to legitimate the continuation of intellectual and political work in the Western 
academy, at a time when it is perceived to be under threat” (Watson 10; 13). 

What intellectual and political work is at stake here? And which one can be 
defended by a criticism of the “bourgeois production system”? Many critics may 
delude themselves that by adopting some sort of meta-theoretical stance they are 
extraneous to the alleged “sins” of the modern/bourgeois/capitalist system. It can 
be argued that they are instead playing the same game of hegemonization of the 
intellectuals, via academic and publishing institutions, that has been played long 
before. Or, at the same time, exhibit “‘a ‘demoralised flight from serious politics’ 
into the coziness of academic tenure and complacency” (Watson 15). 

But, aside from debates that may be already wearing out (Katz), the challenge 
for Italian Cultural Studies is certainly not to be the “keepers of the Gramscian 
flame.” Rather, a feasible project should be required to appraise its Gramscian 
genealogy and mobilize it to interact with other cultural politics, be they the “crisis” 
of academia, the antagonism of the social sciences, or (perhaps most importantly) 
the always forceful Italian tradition of “literary criticism” that had in Croce its first 
and most enduring master.*° 


New York City 


30 Conceivably devoid of significant contacts with Anglo-American critical theories, the line 
connecting Croce’s belletrism to today’s successors of Contini, Debenedetti, Dionisotti, et 
al. (in a loop that tries to ensnare even Gramsci and other Marxists) is perhaps the most 
recognizable agency in the Italian theater of operation. On this subject, see the stimulating 
study by Onofri. 


30 Paolo Barlera 


Works Cited 


Abbate, Michele. La filosofia di Benedetto Croce e la crisi della societa italiana. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1966. 
Banfi, Antonio. Principi di una teoria della ragione. Milano: 1926. 
Biasin, Gian-Paolo. /talian Literary Icons. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1985. 
Bobbio, Norberto. Profilo ideologico del 900. Milano: Garzanti, 1990. 
Bollati, Guido. L’/taliano. Il carattere nazionale come storia e come invenzione. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1983. 
Carey, John. The Intellectual and the Masses. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1992. 
Croce, Benedetto. Breviario di estetica. Aesthetica in nuce. Milano: Adelphi, 1990. 
. Pagine sparse. 2 vols. Napoli, 1943. 
De Castris, Arcangelo Leone. Estetica e politica. Croce e Gramsci. Milano: F. Angeli, 1989. 
De Grazia, Victoria. The Culture of Consent: Mass Organization of Leisure in Fascist Italy. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1981. 
De Martino, Ernesto. Morte e pianto rituale. Torino: Boringhieri, 1958. 
Eco, Umberto. Apocalittici e integrati. Comunicazioni di massa e teorie della cultura di 
massa. Milano: Bompiani, 1964. 
Eliot, Thomas S. Notes towards the Definition of Culture. London: Faber, 1948. 
Ferretti, Gian Carlo. “L’editore tra letterati e pubblico.” Gramsci e la modernita. Ed. V. 
Calzolaio. Napoli: CUEN, 1991. 
Filippucci, Paola. “Anthropological Perspectives on Culture in Italy.” /talian Cultural 
Studies. New York: Oxford UP, 1996. 52-71. 
Forgacs, David and Robert Lumley. “Introduction: Approaches to Culture in Italy.” /talian 
Cultural Studies. New York: Oxford UP, 1996. 1-11. 
Gramsci, Antonio. Selections from Cultural Writings. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1985. 
. Selections from the Prison Notebooks. New York: International Publishers, 1971. 
Hall, Stuart. “Popular Culture and the State.” Popular Culture and Social Relations. Ed. T. 
Bennett, C. Mercer and J. Woollacott. Philadelphia: Open UP, 1986. 
Harris, David. From Class Struggleto the Politics of Pleasure: The Effects of Gramscianism 
on Cultural Studies. New York: Routledge, 1992. 
Holub, Renate. Antonio Gramsci: Beyond Marxism and Postmodernism. New Y ork: 
Routledge, 1992. 
Katz, Adam “Postmodern Cultural Studies: A Critique.” Cultural Logic 1.1 (Fall 1997). 
Morrow, Raymond A. “Critical Theory, Gramsci and Cultural Studies: From Structuralism 
to Poststructuralism.” Critical Theory Now. Ed. P. Wexler. London-New York: The 
Falmer Press, 1991. 
Onofri, M. Ingrati maestri. Discorso sulla critica da Croce ai contemporanei. Roma: 
Theoria, 1995. 
Pasolini, Pier Paolo. J dialoghi. Ed. G. Falaschi. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1992. 
. Passione e ideologia. Milano: Garzanti, 1960 
Scalia, Gianni, ed. La cultura italiana del 900 attraverso le riviste. Torino: Einaudi, 1961. 
Serra, Renato. “Esame di coscienza di un letterato” (1915). Scritti letterari, morali e politici. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1974. 
Watson, Tim. “Comrade Gramsci’s Progeny.” Postmodern Culture 3.3 (May 1993). 


Bette Talvacchia 


The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 


The history of portraiture as a cultural practice is expertly sketched in a recent 
volume of revisionist essays that analyze the genre by interrogating it through such 
issues as likeness and identity, transactions between sitter and artist, concepts of the 
sexual self and the social self (Woodall). The collection explores, and in some 
instances refutes, assumptions about the unmediated nature of portraits in early 
modern cultural production that have been constantly employed but infrequently 
questioned. These essays join the growing, and crucially needed, body of work that 
faces portraits with a range of different concerns, and replaces former “certainties” 
with beneficial doubts. Long-held assumptions concerning verisimilitude tend to 
adhere particularly to portraits made during the Renaissance, when techniques for 
recording physiognomic likeness were consolidated and conventions or visual 
devices for the representation of gender, class, professional status, and power were 
established. The combination, in the hands of highly ambitious and hugely virtuosic 
painters, was, and is still, irresistible. We are dazzled and prepared to believe that 
Titian’s sitters, or Raphael’s, or Sebastiano del Piombo’s, were as splendid as the 
skill of the artist was able to reveal. It is difficult, and no fun, to detach ourselves 
enough to acknowledge the artifice and to analyze the elements that fabricated such 
overwhelming, yet still believable, human perfection and magnificence. In part we 
believe it because we so desire it, and because it is reassuring to imagine a time 
when a noble humanity was straightforwardly recorded by the talented artists it 
deserved. 

It is no surprise that the influence of the Renaissance paradigm pervaded the 
early modern practice of portrait-making, and continues still to operate in much 
criticism and history. But more problems lurk beyond the common attribution of 
objectivity to naturalistic visual representation, especially the modern variety of 
mental baggage conditioned by our experience of the snapshot. It makes us 
unthinking captives of the simplistic equation: representation of an individual 
person equals the candid capture of a moment in time. Even more undermining of 
this facile view is the path taken by socio-cultural developments. The social and 
cultural context of western art has gradually called into question the stability of 
identity, and along with it the easy correspondence of bodily aspect and interior 
make-up. Yet still, the function of the portrait to express primarily the identity and 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


32 Bette Talvacchia 


the genre. 

For example, strong and thoughtful recent studies give us working definitions 
of the portrait genre in the Renaissance as “‘a likeness which is seen to refer to the 
identity of the person depicted,” also understood as a “personality” (Woodall 9) or 
as “the public face of an identity” (Tinagli 48). These formulations allow for 
examination of the construction of identity, and indeed are proposed within 
illuminating discussions that explore this complication. These definitions, however, 
pertain only to portraiture that is public in nature, intended primarily as a record of 
the sitter. I would like to push beyond this restriction through a consideration of 
portraits that can be categorized differently. Other possible uses of the portrait, and 
variant approaches to content, exist. For example, the portrait genre can also be 
used principally as a commentary upon or a representation of the experience of the 
artist. In such cases the boundaries of a sub-set, artist’s self-portrait, are dissolved 
or stretched to the extent of merging the two categories. In other words, I am not 
here referring to an image that simply reflects the artist’s own features, but instances 
where the maker’s interiority is also recorded by means of delineating another.' The 
image then becomes a portrait of the artist’s subjectivity, using conventions of the 
portrait genre to construct and convey something about the creator through the 
vehicle of the apparent subject on view. 

My study will focus on portrait drawings from the sixteenth and early 
seventeenth centuries, two of which can be seen as travel souvenirs, and one that 
marks an inner journey (figs. 1-3). Their medium, quick and direct, supports their 
intimate nature. Indeed, to various degrees their subject matter goes beyond the 
merely private toward suggestively or openly erotic, which stresses their role as 
personal memories. Paradoxically, one is an engraving; the possibility for numerous 
copies and wide distribution shows the immediate co-option of reproducible media 
in the Renaissance period as the arena for transgressive, provocative, or otherwise 
challenging subject matter.” An element common to all three examples is that each 
has an inscription on the bottom of the sheet, a statement that provides an 
interpretive key for the image. In various ways the verbal comment is a crucial 
addition, necessary in order to fence the visual system within a narrative parameter, 
helping to fix the multivalent image to an incident that describes what is depicted 
in terms of the artist. 

The forceful drawing of a woman’s head by Andrea Commodi seems an 
affectionate study of a youthful sitter who is characterized by a direct gaze and 
attractive smile (fig. 1). The head is in three-quarter view, with emphasis on the 
contour of the right side of the sitter’s head. The left of the woman’s face is totally 


' For extensive and innovative study of the ways in which Renaissance self-portraits of 
Albrecht Diirer and Hans Baldung can construct meaning, see Koerner. My own readings 
of the very different Italian material is indebted to Koerner’s discussions. 

? On this point see, for example, Emison. 


The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 33 


obscured by heavy shadow. The pronounced chiaroscuro gives visual evidence that 
the face was used to experiment with both the expressive possibilities of radical 
lighting effects in the modeling of a face, and the abstract design potential of the 
stark contrast of black and white. The latter is especially examined in the drawing 
of the hair, with its alternation of dark lines and white spaces to create the crown, 
and in the flurry of short, curved strokes that stand for curly ends escaping the dark 
mass of the chignon. The expressive nature of the light/dark contrasts is also 
indicated by the exaggerated areas of shadow on the lit portion of the face, 
significantly in the eye and corner of the mouth, and in the capricious manner that 
the darkness undulates across the chin. 

The portrait study, so clearly concerned with strategies of form, has just 
recently been published, under the title Ritratto di donna (la prostituta) (Papi 158). 
The author has sufficient reason for the identification, since the portrait is part of 
a corpus of drawings that includes several other studies from life of different female 
models, some of whom are shown in sexual situations (fig.4). The underlying 
justification for the hypothesis that the portrayed woman is a prostitute, however, 
is the traditional assignment of gendered roles in the practice of art, particularly of 
studies from life. The equation of artistic creative activity with the Deity’s creation 
of the universe (and the crafting of a human figure with the making of humanity) is 
one of the fundamental myths of the artist’s identity; and, just as the Prime Mover 
is always figured male in the Western tradition, so the artistic genius is gendered 
masculine (Kris and Kurz 38ff.). This construction is narrativized in the story of 
Pygmalion, the (male) artist who carves the perfect female form, which ultimately 
gains life through her maker’s desire. Needless to add that the achievement of 
Pygmalion is another of the founding myths of the artist’s profession. 

The eventual merging in the Renaissance of the Deus artifex with the divino 
artista produced such a forceful paradigm that it obliterated other myths about the 
origins of devising human figures. One of the seldom told tales that has been nearly 
erased posited the actions of a woman as the beginnings of figure-painting. A 
classical legend cited by Pliny records that a young woman painted the outline of 
her lover by tracing his cast shadow on the wall, in order to keep something of his 
presence even after his imminent departure. Some versions add a postscript to the 
event, demonstrating the relation of drawing to all the arts, by having the maiden’s 
father, Boutades, fill in the outline with clay and thus produce the first figurative 
sculpture (Kris and Kurz 74). Embedded cultural practices account for the lack of 
naming the female protagonist, and quickly pull a male authority figure into the 
account. Yet this explanation of the events that led to the artist’s closest imitation 
of and connection to divine creation is aberrant, and its obloquy is eloquent of its 
unacceptability within the dominant gender ideology that has structured the artist’s 
profession: men create, with women the matter of creation. 

Of course ideology engenders a “naturalized” context for artistic production, 


34 Bette Talvacchia 


even if it is contradicted by day-to-day practice. For example, we know that during 
the Renaissance it was often difficult to obtain female models for figure study, so 
that young boys would sometimes serve the purpose. The boys were readily 
available in the form of garzoni, the apprentices on the lowest rung of workshop 
hierarchy. This very practical arrangement coincides nicely with the value system 
that places both women and boys in the category of sexually desirable and 
subordinate, the “appropriate” conduits for the master’s creation. There is, however, 
a difference in the reading of the result. If the boys in the studio participate in the 
line of professional duty, and can potentially take the place of the painter, the 
women are where they are not supposed to be. In fact one of the social conventions 
that disallowed the professional training of women as artists was the unthinkable 
circumstance that they should enter the home of another father, and live among male 
apprentices. Therefore, female studio models were not artists-in-the-making, but 
merely available women, those reduced to whoring, or domestic help of the lowest 
level. 

This social construct that accompanied the development of figure study from 
life during the Renaissance resulted in a corollary belief, which gained 
predominance over time. From “only women of ill-repute would be put in the 
position of model,” the assumption quickly became “all models are sexually 
available to the artist.” It is a tenet that works in concert with the other presumption 
discussed: it is the natural order for man to be the artist and the woman the model. 
Outside of an art-specific context, these views are compatible with a societal norm 
that expects the male to have sexual control over the female. 

The short excursus about the constructions that operate in the history of art’s 
production points out some of the factors that would allow for the imposition of a 
sexualized sub-text in the interpretation of Andrea Commodi’s drawing. But in this 
specific instance we can go beyond the deductions that an understanding of 
conventions and traditions allows us, to a more precise reading. The artist has 
appended a statement attesting to his sexual involvement with his model, and it 
spells out an acrid message about his own condition as a consequence of the 
encounter. The drawing is inscribed with the words quella che m’attacco il mal 
franzese. The terse declaration transforms the portrait from a study of how light and 
shadow behave on a face to a documentation of guilt, an indictment of the artist’s 
syphilis and the means of its transmission. It is no longer a drawing that chiefly 
records the appearance of a particular woman. The artist has altered the image’s 
main function to express his own emotional state rather than the subjectivity of the 
person whose features are registered. 

The viewer/reader has no way of filling in the rest of the story. Given the 
implications of the words, one might re-consider the visual evidence, and wonder 
if the intensity of black shadow was added at a later moment to eclipse the face that 
had become an object of hatred, although its careful placement and calculated effect 
would seem to deny this. On the other hand, we can not even speculate on who the 


The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 35 


sitter was, if she were really to blame, or how many other partners Andrea himself 
might have gone on to infect. The point is, we can understand only what the artist, 
who controlled the image, offered for interpretation. Commodi chose a combination 
of visual and verbal texts that in the end tells us exclusively about his own suffering 
and hostility at a particular point in his life, a personal record of his emotional state. 

Taddeo Zuccaro has left an intimate portrayal of a more joyous moment in his 
sexual life through an inscribed drawing of a man and woman in bed (fig.2).’ The 
sexual situation is apparent here and forms part of the subject of this double portrait. 
In this instance, as in Commodi’s drawing, readable formal conventions supply 
general interpretive boundaries, while an inscription below the figures signals that 
a specific situation is being recorded. Zuccaro’s drawing does not present the 
figures in the neutral space of an artist’s studio; rather it places them within the 
confines of a bedroom. The closed, intimate space is curtained off behind the 
couple, who recline on a narrow bed that fills the foreground. This composition 
quotes the sparse arrangements that concentrate exclusively on the sexual subject, 
which Giulio Romano used in his series of sixteen modi, composed in Rome in the 
1520s. Giulio’s straightforward representations of sexual intercourse, in versions 
engraved by Marcantonio Raimondi, became the paradigm for explicitly erotic 
subject matter in early modern culture.* And, like the slightly earlier modi, 
Zuccaro’s drawing does not provide any references to mythological characters or 
ancient stories in order to excuse the licentious nature of the scene. 

The viewer is thus left to indulge a voyeuristic impulse, given entry to what 
should be a private moment, as she or he regards a scene of physical pleasure shared 
by two unknown people. But is the identity of the participants concealed? In my 
opinion, the words written on the sheet disclose more than an attribution to an artist 
by a collector. The explicit subject matter and the identification of the place where 
the drawing was made would be known only to the artist, and most likely was not 
the sort of image and information to share or pass down to later interested parties. 
“Tadeo Zuccaro fatto in Venetia” is most convincingly read as a signature, even 
though this gesture was not prevalent in sixteenth-century art, and especially not on 
drawings. Further, the inclusion of a venue is highly unusual and indicates the 
intention of revealing much more than the hand of the artist. The form and 
placement of the writing tell us something. The carefully fashioned letters are 
accurately centered at the bottom of the sheet, rigorously designed as part of the 
composition. The name is slightly larger in scale, its letters spaced more generously 
and detached, while the phrase that follows is ina more compact script. The letters 


> The drawing, attributed to Zuccaro, is in the Uffizi Gabinetto di Disegni e Stampe, inv. 785 
S. It is, so far as I know, an unpublished work, not yet taken up in the scant literature on this 
important artist. 

“For the prints in a facsimile edition see Lawner; critical history and discussion of the 
images can be found in Talvacchia. 


36 Bette Talvacchia 


are uniform (the vowels in particular repeat the same formation in both parts of the 
inscription), all in a fluid, sixteenth-century hand.° This allows us to posit that the 
words and the image are contemporaneous and were combined by the artist himself 
- stylized signature followed by a phrase - to signify something unambiguous, 
whose meaning would be more fully determined than that of the image on its own. 

To arrive at possible readings we should first consider the visual information 
more closely. The female figure has certainly been coded as a prostitute, for reasons 
much different from, but just as conventionalized as, those in Commodi’s drawing.° 
The visual effect of her full nudity is accentuated by giving her a single adornment 
of jewelry, the bracelet prominently displayed on her left arm, and by hair 
elaborately dressed in an upswept coiffure. Stressing nudity through ornate 
accessories was a ploy, probably based on practice, which quickly became 
standardized in the representation of prostitutes. Zuccaro’s inclusion of these 
elements in a drawing that, while complete, still has the characteristics of a sketch, 
attests to their importance as signifiers. The message is further conveyed by a 
compositional choice. Although she is flagrantly nude, the woman is placed very 
close to the viewer in the foreground, with her body positioned for the viewer’s 
inspection. Despite the compromising result, the woman’s head is turned, not 
demurely away from intrusive glances, but rather to engage the viewer’s stare with 
a direct and knowing look of her own. Such body language is a statement of sexual 
availability. As if to proclaim this fact, the man caresses the woman’s breast with 
a proprietary, if elegant, gesture. The importance of this motif is stressed by the 
amount of care the artist gave to the drawing of this passage. While the other hands 
are more summarily drawn, the lines of the man’s right hand have been thoroughly 
worked, leaving the traces of many pentimenti and a decisive final contour that 
creates a thoroughly Michelangelesque form.’ . 

In contrast to the woman’s confrontational stare, the man looks down in the 
direction of his partner. The components of his face have not been as highly 
finished, and it is really his gestures, his control of the situation rather than his 
individual features, which describe him. Along with his grasping hand, the 
movement of the man’s right leg is also an expression of domination, as it thrusts 
between the legs of the woman and presses down on her right thigh, configuring the 
“slung-leg motif,” which, following classical prototypes, Renaissance artists took 
up as a signifier of sexual intercourse. 

There is one detail that individualizes the man’s appearance, however, present 


° I consulted Dr. Gino Corti for interpretation of the paleography. He agreed that both parts 
of the inscription, the name, and the place are by the same hand from the cinquecento, with 
orthography of this period. I would like to thank him for his help on this matter. 

° For specific conventions in the painted portraits of courtesans in Venetian art, see 
Pedrocco. 

7 Discussions of Taddeo Zuccaro’s drawing style and a corpus of works are found in Gere. 


The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 37 


in the short, curly hair and very light, short, wispy beard that he wears. It is a 
distinctive feature of the artist’s self-portrait, now in the Uffizi, and in the wood-cut 
portrait used by Giorgio Vasari to embellish his edition of the artist’s Vita. The 
identification of Taddeo Zuccaro as the protagonist in the drawing is plausible not 
only on the basis of the physical detail, but from a surprising revelation in the text 
of Vasari’s biography. Vasari was both a well-known advocate for the dignity of the 
artist’s profession, and commendably parsimonious in serving up gossip about the 
“sex lives” of his subjects. It therefore comes as a jolt when the biographer begins 
by describing Taddeo’s painting style as full of grace, charm, and virtuosity, and 
ends by assessing personal traits that focus on sexual comportment: 


Fu sanguigno, subito, e molto sdegnoso, e oltre cid dato alle cose veneree. Ma nondimeno, 
ancor che a cid fusse inclinatissimo di natura, fu temperato, e seppe fare le sue cose con una 
certa onesta vergogna e molto segretamente. 

(Vasari 103) 


While the reader is left to wonder what exactly Vasari had in mind about the 
secret ways in which Taddeo carried out his amours, it is clear enough that the 
volume of the artist’s “illicit” sexual activity was remarkable by contemporary 
standards, and already much-commented upon, or it would have never been 
included in the text. Taddeo’s biography must be accounted one of the most 
factually accurate in the Vite. Beyond Vasari’s personal acquaintance with Zuccaro, 
the text was timely, published within two years of the artist’s death. And for this 
biography Vasari had a critic with a lot of personal animosity and self-interest. 
Taddeo’s brother, Federico, was also a painter, who idolized his older sibling, was 
committed to tending the honor of his reputation, and disdained Vasari. Federico 
engaged an intense critique of Vasari’s pronouncements with regard to his brother, 
writing line-by-line marginalia that glossed not only dubious statements, but issues 
of assessment and interpretation. For example, Vasari’s characterization of 
Taddeo’s hot temper and pride is emended by: “Anzi modesto, temperato e 
benignio” ( Vasari 103 n2). Federico did not, however, argue with or try to counter 
Vasari’s accusations about Taddeo’s egregious sexual behavior, so we must imagine 
that his liaisons were too notorious to disclaim. 

What application does this biographical information have to the drawing under 
discussion? Aside from revealing that Taddeo engaged in sex to an extent that 
caused comment, it implies his frequentation of prostitutes as one of the most likely 
channels used to satisfy intemperate lust. And it suggests a reason for gloating about 
a visit to Venice, since for an enthusiast of this sort of sexual encounter, Venice was 
a beacon of opportunity. Famed not only throughout Italy, but all of Europe, for the 
number, variety, availability, beauty, and sophistication of women who practiced 
this trade, Venice quickly became a destination for tourists of particular tastes. 
Although we have no documentation of Zuccaro traveling to Venice to carry out 


38 Bette Talvacchia 


commissions in painting, he may well have jumped at the opportunity for personal 
rather than professional reasons. In fact, one important trip afforded easy access to 
the city of renowned courtesans. In 1552 Taddeo was in the retinue of Guidobaldo 
da Montefeltro, Duke of Urbino, during a visit to Verona, which would have given 
him the opportunity and the time to make numerous visits to Venice for which we 
have no record. 

All of this leads me to suggest that the Uffizi drawing is a souvenir of Taddeo’s 
trip to Venice, similar to a post-card that records and vaunts one person’s 
acquisition of the notable sights and specialized commodities available only by 
travel to a famous location, while others have stayed home and missed out. Zuccaro 
portrays himself with one of the celebrated Venetian courtesans, contentedly 
partaking in the pleasures of his “intemperate nature” at the same time that he 
experiences the best that Venice, as a tourist attraction, has to offer. 

I believe that the inscription “Taddeo Zuccaro fatto in Venetia” was written by 
the artist himself, and loaded with a double significance. It signs the work, but also 
conveys the artist’s story by way of the portraits. He records himself and the 
glamorous prostitute whose services he bought, but insures that the meaning of the 
portrayal is specific. The words say, I did this in Venice: made the drawing/ had my 
encounter with a courtesan. The double portrait becomes a travel souvenir that 
speaks of the artist’s activities, and allows him to brag about both his sexual 
prowess and his cosmopolitan connoisseurship. The drawing becomes a signifier 
that stands for the artist’s accomplishments in two arenas and gives form to his 
memory by inscribing what he did, with whom, and where. 

A similar desire, regarding a trip to the same location for an analogous 
purpose, called another souvenir portrait into existence half a century later (fig. 3). 
The English adventurer, Thomas Coryat, was more direct in the representation of 
his own visit to a Venetian courtesan, yet perhaps less honest. Words were Coryat’s 
means of expression, and he produced a travelogue of two volumes to recount his 
extensive continental wanderings and shrewd observations, published in 1611. 
When speaking of his Venetian escapade, however, Coryat felt it necessary to 
complete his narrative with an engraving, so that the image might attest to the 
veracity of his account. Presumably Coryat relied on the viewer’s assumption of the 
portrait genre’s verisimilitude to act as proof that the event took place exactly as he 
recounted it. 

The engraving shows the author, making a deferential gesture and with hat 
politely in hand, greeting a woman who moves forward to embrace him. She is 
elaborately coifed and dressed, with a single disconcerting sartorial detail; the 
ample sweep of her garment’s soaring neckline is cut so as to reveal the woman’s 
breasts. The lascivious costume strikes a dissonant note with the lady’s noble 
bearing, the high-tone architectural setting, and the rather solemn inflection in the 
overall mise en scéne. The print’s inscription, however, explains the apparent 
disjunction. It identifies the subject as “Margarita Emiliana bella Cortesana di 


The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 39 


Venetia,” whose profession famously combined ritualized behavior and the 
surroundings of wealth with eroticism. As with Zuccaro’s drawing, the recording 
of location is crucial for understanding the event; and for Coryat’s purposes, it is on 
the same level of importance as the naming of the woman who is portrayed. 

Within Coryat’s detailed account of his six weeks worth of sight-seeing and 
close inspection of Venetian customs, his comments on the city’s institution of 
prostitution is a nine-page discourse. The particulars of his account make it clear 
that the practice and practitioners were studied at length and with great interest. 
Coryat begins with an etymology of the term Cortezana, touches on a socio- 
economic consideration of how the operation fits into the structure of the Venetian 
state, and even assesses its impact on travel to the city: 


For so infinite are the allurements of these amorous Calypsoes, that the fame of them hath 
drawen many to Venice from some of the remotest parts of Christendome, to contemplate 
their beauties, and enjoy their pleasing dalliances. 

(403) 


Coryat’s text then gues on to enumerate rapturously the minutiae of the 
courtesan’s habits and appearance, describing her jewelry and cosmetics to the last 
detail. The final summation - so breathless that it jags along without a verb - is 
immediately followed by a pious editorial comment, lest the reader arrive at the 
obvious, but wrong, conclusion: 


Her petticoate of red chamlet edged with rich gold fringe, stockings of carnasion silke, her 
breath and her whole body, the more to enamour thee, most fragrantly perfumed. Though 
these things will at the first sight seeme unto thee most delectable allurements, yet if thou 
shalt rightly weigh them in the scales of a mature judgement, thou wilt say with the wise 
man, and that very truely, that they are like a golden ring in a swines snowt. 

(404-05) 


The inventory then picks up, and the reader learns more particulars, including the 
decor of the noble courtesan’s bed-chamber, replete with perfumed sheets. Coryat, 
who expresses fear at the outset that his documentation of this particular topic will 
reflect badly on his morals, switches systematically from lubricious descriptions to 
judicious warnings. The weightiest admonition inveighs against entering into “terms 
of private conversation” with the courtesan. It turns out to be a pragmatic, rather 
than a moral, piece of advice: 


Moreover I will tell thee this newes which is most true, that if thou shouldest wantonly 
converse with her, and not give her that salarium iniquitatis, which thou hast promised her, 
but perhaps cunningly escape from her company, shee will either cause thy throate to be cut 
by her Ruffiano, if he can after catch thee in the City, or procure thee to be arrested (if thou 


40 Bette Talvacchia 


8art to be found) and clapped up in the prison, where thou shalt remaine till thou hast paid 
her all thou didst promise her. 
(405-06) 


The import of the term “conversation” is clear. Although it functions as a 
euphemism for sex, to salvage the respectability of Coryat’s text, its full meaning 
hinges on how it signifies in terms of gender. “Conversation” was used in the 
Renaissance exactly as the word “intercourse” is employed today, capable of 
signifying both verbal and carnal exchanges, commingling minds or bodies. Italian 
linguistic practice concurred: in a treatise published in Venice in 1575, 
conversatione with women meant sexual intercourse as well as chat (Guazzo). It 
would seem that early modern cultures stressed the intimate nature of both sorts of 
transactions, while being less convinced about a mind/body divide in such matters. 
The speech that issues from a woman’s body gives release to an aspect of her 
sexuality. No matter what the reality, conversation was socially constructed as talk 
when conducted between two men; engaged with a woman, it was presumed to 
produce a sexual situation. 

With this in mind, Coryat’s apologia for his visit to the courtesan becomes a 
cleverly fashioned conundrum: is he confessing or denying? His profuse moralizing 
finishes by declaring that he visited the courtesan, not with wanton intent, but... 
to have conversation with her! Coryat’s convoluted disclaimer reads in part: 


Thus have I described unto thee the Venetian Cortezans; but because I have related so many 
particulars of them, as few Englishmen that have lived many yeares in Venice, can do the 
like, or at the least if they can, they will not upon their returne into England, I beleeve thou 
wilt cast an aspersion of wantonnesse upon me, and say that I could not know all these 
matters without mine owne experience. I answere thee, that although I might have knowne 
them without my experience, yet for my better satisfaction, I went to one of their noble 
houses (I wil confesse) to see the manner of their life, and observe their behaviour, but not 
with such an intent as we reade Demosthenes went to Lais, to the end to pay something for 
repentance; but rather as Panutius did to Thais, of whom we read that when he came to her, 
and craved a secret roome for his pastime, she should answere him that the same roome 
where they were together, was secret enough, because no body could see them but onely 
God; upon which speech the godly man tooke occasion to persuade her to the feare of God 
and religion, and to the reformation of her licentious life, since God was able to prie into the 
secretest corners of the world. And so at last converted her by this meanes from a wanton 
Cortezan to a holy and religious woman. In like manner I both wished the conversion of the 
Cortezan that I saw, and did my endevour by perswasive termes to convert her, though my 
speeches could not take the like effect that those of Panutius did. Withall I went thither 
partly to the end to see whether those things were true that I often heard before both in 
England, France, Savoy, Italy, and also in Venice it selfe concerning these famous women 


The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 41 


(407-08) 


Thus does Coryat confess, although with neither syntactical clarity nor full 
disclosure. He went “partly to the end to see” if everything he had heard were true; 
what other goals and desires may have been involved, we are not told. Even when 
Coryat makes himself clear, his messages can be conflicting. Although he sternly 
admonishes the reader, “As for thine eyes, shut them and turne them aside from 
these venereous Venetian objects” (406), he provides a picture that may be gazed 
upon at length. Coryat does not gloss the image, he merely remarks on its presence, 
saying that it features one of the “nobler Cortezans” next to a portrayal of himself, 
“made in that forme as we saluted each other” (401). I believe that this choice 
operates on something like the adage that a picture is worth a thousand words, or 
just as many reassurances. After all, having devoured the spicy details of the 
author’s tryst, perhaps the reader might be left incredulous at the apparent 
denouement, or puzzled by the ambiguous language. The “authentic” portrait then 
provides a configuration of ringing clarity, showing well-behaved people greeting 
each other. The details of the woman’s clothes and the inscription make the setting 
clear, so there is no mistaking the possibilities inherent in the meeting. However, 
a blameless moment has been chosen for representation, to stand for the propriety 
of the entire encounter. 

Unfortunately, Coryat’s language once again reveals an ambiguity that the 
image is constructed to conceal. His description of the print as a mutual “salute” 
appropriates the plurality of the Italian sa/utare, which subsumes both hello and 
goodbye, in a way that the English “greet” and “take leave” do not. Pictorially, this 
is masked by the viewer seeing the figure of Coryat moving from the left toward the 
center of the composition, which is reflexively read as entering, and in this 
narrative, signifies time before any wrong-doing might have been committed. If 
Coryat’s language does not tell us if he is coming or going, he made sure that, at 
least visually, his innocence announces itself. 

One final point about the eloquence of the double portraits with their captions: 
although they accompany Coryat’s English text, the inscriptions are in Italian. 
Coryat shows his features, but gives his name in the guise of an Italian gentleman, 
“Il Signior Tomaso Odcombiano.” His native town of Odcombe, Somersetshire, 
betrays a most un-Italian locution. The third name contained on the sheet records 
the English engraver, William Hole, with an Italianized first name. We can assume 
that writing the inscriptions in Italian was another strategy of authentication, 
obscuring the fact that the engraving was produced in England upon Coryat’s 
return. This document, provided to convince the reader/viewer of the veracity of the 
author’s account, was far from an immediate sketch of a moment witnessed by the 
engraver, and included a “portrait” of a woman he had never seen. The image was 
dictated by the author to specific ends. It corroborates the narrator’s tale of 


42 Bette Talvacchia 


blameless observation and honest discourse in conjunction with a text that leaves 
all too open the possibility of his having “conversed wantonly” with a courtesan. 
Further, as part of a pictorial tradition that recorded the prostitutes of Venice and 
their sexual commodification, the real function of the portraits was to attest to the 
experience of the artist who created the discourse; they show the Englishman 
Coryat’s proximity to pleasures of Venice and their immediate availability to him, 
but deny that he indulged. For all the sanitized presentation, Coryat’s image flaunts 
an experience that the author certifies as a part of his travels and, in the end, it is a 
manifestation of his agency as the principal subject of his own story. 

Despite the English author’s use of an intermediary to design his version of the 
event, the representation evinces a similar dynamic of authorial strategy as do the 
Italian drawings under consideration. In all three cases discussed - Commodi’s 
portrait of accusation, Zuccaro’s document of achievement, Coryat’s commissioned 
testimony of propriety — the self-revelation of the creator results from a 
manipulation of his ostensible subject. But there is an additional, and crucial, 
feature in the formation of early modern societies’ attitudes toward art, which 
surfaces in the readings of Zuccaro’s and Commodi’s drawings. In these two 
instances the viewer is given a visual experience that approximates an interior 
monologue of the artist, rather than a reification of his dialogue with the sitter. 
Pushing this idea to its furthest limits yields the formulation that art expresses the 
artist no matter what the subject. The movement toward a conception of art as the 
concrete manifestation, or “product,” of a singular creative personality, which still 
resonates in our own culture, developed in tandem with the cult of genius in 
Renaissance society. Where once the possession of a devotional image to a 
particular saint or the record of the features of a family member dominated the 
impulse to obtain a work of art, having an example of Raphael’s painting or 
Michelangelo’s drawing gradually overwhelmed the desire of the collector. Time 
after time eager patrons would try to commission specific works from these artisti 
divini, only to end with pleading assurances that they would accept anything at all 
from the anointed hands. The quest to own a “Picasso” or a “Warhol” has joined 
ranks with the wish for a “Leonardo,” and the premises about the object being not 
only a piece by, but symbolically a piece of, a particular genius continue to rule the 
merchandising of art and the operation of its market on an international level. 

The all-important concept of the artist’s “hand” functions metonymically for 
the total identification of the product with the artist. Indeed, the identity of the artist 
has endured as the prime factor in establishing the value of art-objects, holding 
strong even in the face of on-going critical interrogation of the concepts of 
authorship, identity, and the reception of cultural production. One of the successful 
strategies for the Renaissance artist’s superimposing of self over the delineation of 
others has here been explored in the form of combinations of text and image. 
Inscribing the images of others with the artist’s own words inescapably imposes the 
maker’s presence and authorizes interpretation that is guided by the artist’s hand. 


The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 43 


It fixes what the viewer can see, and then tells how to read it, in the terms of the 
artist/author. The entities of linguistic message and iconic message, whose separate 
functions have been so lucidly theorized by Barthes, operate seamlessly in these 
examples, so that a particular meaning is constructed by their mutual 
interdependence. The words do not narrow down the meaning of the images, but 
give them fullness, and point to a completion that is situated in the artist’s 
expression of selfhood. Whether this manifestation is in the end based on a fact or 
a fiction, it came to be perceived as a significant purpose of art, one that was left as 
a legacy by artists of the Renaissance. 


The University of Connecticut 


Works Cited 


Coryat, Thomas. Coryat’s Crudities. Vol. 1. Glasgow: James MacLehose and Sons, 1905. 

Emison, Patricia. “Prolegomenon to the study of Italian Renaissance prints.” Word & Image 
11 (1995): 1-15. 

Gere, J. A. Taddeo Zuccaro. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1969. 

Guazzo, Stefano. La civil conversazione del signor Stefano Guazzo. Venezia: 1575. (Civil 
Conversation. 1581. Ed. Edward Sullivan. London: Constable, 1925.) 

Koerner, Joseph Leo. The Moment of Self-Portraiture in German Renaissance Art. Chicago: 
U of Chicago P, 1996. 

Kris, Ernst and Otto Kurz. Legend, Myth, and Magic in the Image of the Artist. New Haven: 
Yale UP, 1979. 

Lawner, Lynne. / modi. Milano: Longanesi, 1984. 

Papi, Giovanni. Andrea Commodi. Firenze: EDIFIR, 1994. 

Pedrocco, Filippo. “Iconografia delle cortigiane di Venezia.” // gioco dell’amore. Le 
cortigiane di Venezia dal trecento al settecento. Milano: Berenice Art Books, 1990. 81- 
93, 

Talvacchia, Bette. “Figure lascive per trastullo de l’ingegno.” Giulio Romano. Milano: 
Electa, 1989. 277-88. 

Tinagli, Paola. Women in Italian Renaissance Art. Manchester: Manchester UP, 1997. 

Vasari, Giorgio. Le vite de’ pit eccellenti pittori, scultori ed architettori. Vol. 7. Ed. 
Gaetano Milanesi. Firenze: Sansoni, 1973. 

Woodall, Joanna, ed. Portraiture. Facing the Subject. Manchester: Manchester UP, 1997. 


44 Bette Talvacchia 


Figures 


1. Taddeo Zuccaro. Uomo e donna a letto. Photo: Florence, Sopraintendenza per 
i Beni Artistici e Culturali. 





The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 45 


2. Andrea Commodi. Ritratto di donna (La prostituta). Photo: Florence, 
Sopraintendenza per i Beni Artistici e Culturali. 





—— 


He 
fie A . ? : : 
GULICER, © Ce. FH atAczS tf feat: 7&2 






46 Bette Talvacchia 


3. Andrea Commodi. Donna nuda distesa su un letto che guarda. Photo: 
Florence, Sopraintendenza per i Beni Artistici e Culturali. 





The Erotic Souvenir as a Portrait of the Artist 47 


engraver. // signor Tomaso Odcambiano e Margarita Emiliana 


Hole, 


illiam 


4 


te Collection. 


1va 


Pri 


Venetia. Photo 


bella cortesana di 
































7 _ 

> 

= 4 
—_ he 
a 

= @ 

“ 

en 

7 

= > 

—— 

a, 

= 

_ 

7 "34 ? ; ? 
- ' | 
: - - /- as e. 
Po = = 8 = ; ; . - 
~~ =f. &- an a? a 
; a YY oy 
- é F 46 ; 4 
: . i ' ee 


2. , 








Walter Zampieri 


Brunelleschi e il Grasso 


Malgrado i tanti, preziosi e talvolta geniali contributi sull’argomento', non abbiamo 
forse ancora finito di meditare sul senso e sulle conseguenze della straordinaria 
avventura intellettuale rappresentata dalla scoperta della prospettiva. 

“Oh che dolce cosa é questa prospettiva”, ripeteva Paolo Uccello fin quasi nel 
sonno, a testimonianza di un fascino e di un incanto inebrianti, ma anche di una 
passione divorante, come non accade quando la scoperta riguarda uno strumento 
fisico o concettuale, bensi quando é una nuova dimensione ad aprirsi, intatta e 
vertiginosa, davanti al pensiero di un’epoca. Grazie al possesso sicuro dell’antica 
ancella della geometria (le prime nozioni intorno alla prospettiva si debbono allo 
studio della rifrazione, ed erano dunque una parte dell’ ottica) l’artista diventa un 
intellettuale ed un pensatore, con tutti i rischi connessi con la professione; 
ammonisce infatti il Vasari che, a causa dello studio eccessivo della prospettiva: 


Spesso si diventa solitario, strano, malinconico, e povero: come Paulo Uccello, il quale, 
dotato dalla natura d’uno ingegno sofistico e sottile, non ebbe altro diletto che d’investigare 


alcune cose di prospettiva difficili e impossibili. 
(Vasari 1964, 81) 


La prospettiva é scienza, e non approssimazione, e si colloca dunque sul 
versante luminoso del crinale che Platone pose a dividere la schiera degli imitatori: 
c’é chi sa quello che fa, e chi invece non lo sa, ed € percid piuttosto un mimo ed un 
ciarlatano (Platone, // Sofista, 267d). Ma se grazie alla matematica ed alla 
geometria Brunelleschi, Alberti e Paolo Uccello possono sfuggire alla riprovazione 
platonica gia caduta su Fidia, “l’ingegno sofistico” dello stesso Paolo ci ricorda la 
tentazione anche storicamente irresistibile toccata in sorte a questi grandi artisti, e 
cioé il loro misurarsi di volta in volta con |’apparenza, |’impossibile, il non-essere. 
La prospettiva é infatti certamente una scienza, ma é la scienza del visibile: é la 
misurazione rigorosa delle gerarchie nel mondo dei fenomeni. E la verita del 
rapporto tra chi vede e chi é visto, e nient’altro; é una verita parziale: tanti uomini, 
tanti punti di vista. Viene a concludere un secolare travaglio epistemologico con un 
taglio dal sapore quasi kantiano: da una parte il mondo dei fenomeni, e dall’altra, 
per chi ci crede, quello della speculazione e dei principia prima. Nel mezzo non piu 
distinzioni ed ipostasi, bensi tutto cid che pud essere pensato e quindi 


' Doverosa la citazione almeno dei lavori di Parronchi e di Panofsky. 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


50 Walter Zampieri 


successivamente realizzato. La nuova situazione ha un risvolto esistenziale, perché 
in un mondo non piu vincolato a principia prima trascendenti |’identita degli 
uomini dipende dalla loro capacita di essere riconosciuti dagli altri uomini; ed ha 
anche un risvolto politico, poiché in una citta come Firenze, dove il sistema delle 
Artie le istituzioni del Comune Vecchio soffrivano della stessa lunga decadenza, 
la crisi dell’uno, dovuta al distacco tra artisti ed artigiani, non poteva non essere la 
spia di una crisi analoga nel reggimento della citta. Percio gli ambigui ed instabili 
rapporti tra Brunelleschi ed il Grasso legnaiuolo possono anche servire a mettere 
allegoricamente in scena i mutati rapporti tra la scienza e l’opinione, e tra la fantasia 
ed il potere. 

La redazione pit! ampia e pit interessante della novella del Grasso legnaiuolo 
é certamente quella che dobbiamo alla penna di Antonio di Tuccio Manetti. 
L’opinione corrente, pur ammantata nella prudenza d’obbligo, é che Manetti, uno 
dei pit importanti “copisti per passione” della letteratura italiana’, sia stato anche 
l’autore della redazione che trascrisse, subito prima della Vita di Filippo 
Brunelleschi, in un codice ora alla Biblioteca Nazionale di Firenze (il II, II, 325). 
Matematico, astronomo ed architetto, Manetti fu anche un dantista di una certa 
originalita, come attestano i suoi studi Circa al sito, forma e misura dello Inferno 
di Dante (passione che Manetti condivideva con Brunelleschi), che ci sono stati 
trasmessi attraverso la mediazione di Girolamo Benivieni. Biografo di Brunelleschi, 
Cavalcanti e di altri Uomini singulari in Firenze (dove spiccano gli artisti: otto su 
tredici), Manetti non fu solo un letterato minore: ebbe certo degli spiccati interessi 
politici, comprovati dalla sua elezione a Priore (nel 1476) e piu tardi a Gonfaloniere 
di Giustizia (nel 1495). Sicuramente molto vicino al clan mediceo (De Robertis ha 
riconosciuto la sua mano nella tradizione delle Stanze e nel lavoro che porto 
all’allestimento della Raccolta Aragonese), Manetti fu inoltre un frequentatore del 
circolo ficiniano: a lui e a Bernardo del Nero il filosofo dedico il volgarizzamento 
del Commentarium in Convivium Platonis (pit noto come El libro dello Amore) 
nonché la sua versione della Monarchia di Dante, ancora a testimonianza degli 
interessi politici di Manetti, interessi probabilmente pero meno spiccati di quelli del 
suo sodale Bernardo del Nero, che per essi sali il patibolo dopo la cacciata dei 
Medici e l’ascesa del Savonarola. Ma non é solo tra le fonti scritte che dobbiamo 
cercare le tracce della varia attivita di Antonio Manetti: una tela dipinta da Paolo 
Uccello, e oggi al Louvre, lo raffigura insieme a quattro grandi fiorentini, 
Brunelleschi, Giotto, Donatello e lo stesso Paolo. Prova di un’amicizia su cui aveva 
scritto per primo il Vasari (che vuole Antonio Manetti consigliere e maestro di 


2 Su Antonio di Tuccio Manetti é fondamentale il saggio di De Robertis, Antonio Manetti 
copista in Editi e rari, da cui provengono in buona misura i dati qui citati. Utile anche la 
voce a lui dedicata nel Dizionario biografico degli italiani 


Brunelleschi e il Grasso 51 


Paolo nelle questioni matematiche e geometriche), e che fu invece |’occasione di 
uno scambio singolare: poiché nel caso del ritratto come di quasi ogni altro suo atto 
pubblico, Manetti é stato dagli storici confuso e rimpiazzato con |’omonimo 
Antonio di Manetto Ciaccheri; ironicamente un legnaiuolo, e un rivale di 
Brunelleschi. 

Tra la data (incerta) della beffa e quella (probabile) della redazione manettiana 
corrono poco meno di settant’anni: meno della vita di un uomo, ma sono anni in cui 
il volto di Firenze cambio piti volte e completamente. I cambiamenti si possono alla 
grossa riassumere in tre nomi: Brunelleschi, Cosimo de’ Medici e Marsilio Ficino. 
Dopo gli exploits di Brunelleschi la figura dell’artista non poteva pil essere confusa 
con quella dell’artigiano; la cupola di S.Maria del Fiore, costruita senza armamenti 
di legno o di ferro, diventd immediatamente l’emblema di Firenze’, fino a celebrare 
il suo trionfo umanistico nelle pagine del De dignitate et excellentia hominis di 
Giannozzo Manetti: 


Ne de vetustis et admirabilibus edificiis, que pene innumerabilia fuerunt, in presentiarum 
plura dicamus, et ad nova et recentiora paulisper accedamus, quanto mentis acumine 
Philippus, cognomento Brunelleschius, architectorum omnium nostri temporis facile 
princeps, magnum vel potius maximum florentine edis fornicem illum admirabilem nullis 
lignorum ferrorumve armamentis, incredibile dictu, fabricatus est. 

(Garin, 1942, 236) 


Agli occhi degli umanisti Brunelleschi poteva apparire “uno di loro”, perché 
aveva riportato alla luce la maniera degli antichi studiando i monumenti e le rovine 
come se fossero stati testi e codici semi-abrasi, ma nella cupola c’era qualcosa di 
pil, e cioé la prova “della capacita dell’uomo a creare un proprio mondo di valori” 
(Garin 1989, 155), senza impalcature e sostegni a rallentarne lo slancio. 

Ma I’antico ritornava a Firenze anche sotto altre vesti, per esempio nei “miti” 
della politica: dopo la repubblica il principato. Il nuovo regime dei Medici aveva 
in Cosimo il suo Ottaviano Augusto, e Firenze condivideva con la Roma del 
neonato Impero l’esperienza di un governo “illuminato” che trovava la sola 
giustificazione del proprio potere (e dunque la propria ideologia) nel mito della 
pace che seguiva finalmente a lunghi anni di discordie civili. Non é quindi senza 
significato, tutt’altro, che Marsilio Ficino abbia tradotto proprio la Monarchia, per 
dedicarla a due esponenti del ceto politico cittadino non-umanistico, in un momento 
in cui il nuovo regime voleva rompere antichi e feudali rapporti di dipendenza 
dall’autorita pontificia. La terza novita “rivoluzionaria” é proprio la filosofia di 


3 La cupola é “erta sopra e’ cieli, ampla da coprire con sua ombra tutti e’ popoli”, nel 
prologus al De pictura dell’ Alberti (7-8). 


52 Walter Zampieri 


Marsilio Ficino, e dunque il ritorno di Platone a Firenze, il che vuole dire prima di 
tutto la facile accessibilita di tutto il corpus platonico (e prima di quello neo- 
platonico) grazie alla spettacolare “campagna” ficiniana di traduzioni, culminata 
nell’allestimento della Platonis Opera Omnia nel 1484. Le discussioni sulla politica 
e sull’arte potevano allora trovare un nuovo e solido fondamento testuale, anche se 
va sottolineato che Ficino ribalto la condanna platonica dell’arte-imitazione (nel 
migliore dei casi inutile, e pil spesso dannosa perché ontologicamente falsa), e 
seguendo suggestioni che gli venivano da Plotino ma anche dalla Firenze che aveva 
sotto gli occhi, fece dell’artista la perfezione dell’uomo: deus in terris, il vero “dio 
della natura’”(quella di Ficino é naturalmente una “‘tecria” disseminata in vari spunti, 
pit che non un’estetica sistematica). Secondo Ficino il mondo “testimonia” 
l’esistenza di un divino artefice: “certissimum de architecto mundi Deo perhibit 
testimonium’”’. Tra i due poli della metafora, tra il cielo e la terra, il commercio é 
continuo e la specularita perfetta; come ha chiosato André Chastel: “Le grand jeu 
divin trouve sa réplique dans les modalités du jeu et du travail humains qui |’imitent 
et le rejoignent exactement (Chastel 1954, 89). L’attivita artistica non é solo una 
metafora di quella divina: é la traduzione dello stesso messaggio in una lingua 
diversa ma “parente”, il suo “volgarizzamento.” I] legame di consanguineita tra 
uomo e Dio, nato nell’istante della creazione, ¢ ancora visibile e apprensibile nel 
fondamento matematico delle arti umane, che ne assicura il “valore di verita.” Senza 
la matematica (ancora Chastel 1954, 57): “Ces arts hésitent a la merci de I’illusion, 
ils sont le jouet de l’imagination, de l’experience, de la conjecture.” Si pud allora 
ricordare che in gioventu anche Ficino compi studi di matematica e di ottica, e 
“diede opera encora alla prospettiva”, come € scritto nella Vita anonima del 
filosofo. Poiché Dio é l’oculus infinitus, gli studi ficiniani di ottica prendono una 
coloritura ed un respiro religiosi e metafisici che dobbiamo supporre estranei agli 
interessi degli artisti e dei politici fiorentini, ma cid che qui piu ci interessa ¢ 
l’enfasi posta sul ruolo essenziale di artisti e tecnici nel piano divino della machina 
mundi: “L’artiste, lingénieur, le technicien sont au centre de cette rélation 
dynamique et fonctionnelle qui vise a l’achévenement de la création” (Chastel 1954, 
60). 

Pochissime e tutte insoddisfacenti le fonti che si possono attribuire alla novella 
del Grasso legnaiuolo. Un rinvio sicuro é quello all’Amphitruo plautino attraverso 
la mediazione della commedia elegiaca francese e del Cantare di Geta e Birria, che 
offre pero, in realta, poco pit di un esempio di trattamento satirico del tema del 
sosia e dello sconcerto che lo accompagna. Lo sbigottimento del Grasso offre poi 
solo un punto di contatto con un episodio del Paradiso degli Alberti (1,181-85), 


“In Commentarium Platonis Proemium, Opera, Il, p. 102. Ma la citazione proviene da 
Chastel: Marsile Ficin et l'art (57). 


Brunelleschi e il Grasso 53 


mentre in una novella del Sercambi (LXI) la perdita dell’identita ¢ un castigo divino 
inflitto ad un re troppo arrogante. La Novella, sia o meno realmente accaduta la 
beffa che la ispira, fa dunque caso a sé, com’é in fondo logico, poiché inedito nella 
storia era il rapporto tra artisti ed artigiani che fornisce alla beffa la cornice e 
l’ occasione. 

Per meglio apprezzare la novita e la direzione degli interventi sulla fabula di 
Antonio Manetti (0 dello pseudo-tale; ma si vedra come negandogli la paternita 
della novella diventi necessario inventare un “autore ideale” talmente simile al 
Manetti da esserne quasi un sosia) dobbiamo assumere un termine di confronto, che 
sara la redazione scoperta da Barbi nel 1927°, che si ritiene sia stata scritta nel corso 
del settimo decennio del ‘400: rispetto alla versione “vulgata”, questa redazione, 
che rivela indubbi intenti “letterari”, offre il vantaggio di una brevita e di una 
concentrazione “geometriche.” L’anonimo autore ha scelto di porsi nella tradizione 
novellistica che si ispirava al Boccaccio, e gia la scelta della data tradisce il modello 
del Decameron, poiché il 1410 é l’anno in cui si annunciavano i primi segni 
dell’epidemia che avrebbe colpito Firenze l’anno successivo. La brigata di cui fanno 
parte il Grasso (che qui si chiama Mariotto) e Brunelleschi (non identificato 
esplicitamente come il futuro grande architetto ed artista) ¢ costituita da giovani che 
cercano di scampare al contagio che serpeggia nella citta: la brigata insomma é 
frutto del caso, come gia nella cornice del Decameron, non é che un momento del 
disordine che sta per abbattersi su Firenze. Un altro dato di sapore boccaccesco é 
la frottola che Brunelleschi racconta al Grasso, al fine di poter meglio impersonare 
poi lo sfortunato amico, e che concerne i presunti amori della madre del Grasso, 
monna Giovanna, con un prete. Ma pit importante ancora é che la vittima sia 
descritta come si “‘ottimo artigiano”, ma anche “semplice persona”, “avaro” ma “di 
bassa condizione rispetto agli altri”; e pit oltre anche “vile.” In una tradizione che 
si rifa chiaramente ai prototipi boccacciani, il Grasso merita ampiamente la beffa 
che lo colpira. Beffa che oltre a Brunelleschi vede protagonisti altri nomi e cognomi 
ben fiorentini: Piero Pecori, Iacopo Mangiatroia e Filippo Rucellai. Alla fine della 
novella, il Grasso che ha intuito la verita decide di lasciare Firenze, per fuggire 
l’inevitabile scherno; andra in Ungheria, alla corte di Pippo Spano, e li fara 
incredibilmente fortuna. Non tornera pit a Firenze, ma incontrera a Budapest un 
mercante fiorentino, e gli dira che “le beffi l’avevano fatto ricco.” 

Manetti cambia subito la data della storia, arretrandola di un anno (in cid 


> Barbi, “Una versione inedita della novella del Grasso legnaiuolo”. Tutte e tre le redazioni 
in prosa (“vulgata”, Barbi e Manetti) sono riunite ne La novella del Grasso legnaiuolo, a c. 
di Procaccioli, a cui si rimanda per i testi e i luoghi citati, oltre che per l’ampia bibliografia. 
Infine per la Vita di Filippo di ser Brunellesco, vedi Prosatori volgari del °400, ac. di 
Varese. 


54 Walter Zampieri 


affidandosi alla “vulgata”), e non menziona affatto l’incombente epidemia, 
sottraendosi cosi alla troppo diretta dipendenza dal Boccaccio: la novella é infatti 
presentata come il racconto veritiero di un fatto realmente accaduto, e una troppo 
vistosa filigrana letteraria avrebbe evidentemente nociuto alla verisimiglianza del 
racconto. Sostituisce inoltre, nel ruolo di complice, Iacopo Mangiatroia (che gli era 
ben noto, perché é l’autore del volgarizzamento del commento di Dino del Garbo 
a Donna me prega, volgarizzamento che Manetti trascrisse nella sua Notizia_intorno 
a Guido Cavalcanti) con Donatello, accentuando cosi il ruolo degli artisti nella 
beffa e il contrasto con gli artigiani. Ma é la composizione della brigata che ci 
colpisce, poiché si tratta di “uomini dabbene” e di “maestri d’arti miste e 
d’ingegno”; alcuni sono “di reggimento”, e cioé ricoprono cariche politiche. Si 
ritrovano una domenica sera, “cosi come per lo adietro erano usati”, e anche il 
Grasso “era sempre usato di trovarsi con questa brigata”, anche se erano quasi tutti 
di condizione economica e sociale migliore della sua. Quanto alla vittima, € sempre 
un ottimo artigiano, ma é anche “una piacevolissima persona”, e non é affatto vile 
(cerchera di combattere con le guardie, che avranno paura di lui); € ancora uno 
sciocco, ma non del tutto: “Pit presto aveva un poco del semplice che no, ma non 
tanto semplice, non teneva in tutto dello sciocco, e solo sottili uomini avevano 
capito la sua semplicita”. Tra questi ¢ naturalmente Brunelleschi, che € qui “uomo 
di meraviglioso ingegno ed intelligenza”, caratterizzato da un “ghigno”, “ch’egli 
aveva per natura e per la fidanza di sé.” L’occasione della beffa é ancora la mancata 
partecipazione del Grasso ad una di quelle riunioni abituali, e lo scopo della 
“siarda”é di “farvelo pit! savio per un’altra volta.” Quando Brunelleschi propone 
ai compagni la beffa che ha in mente, questi la trovano impossibile da realizzare, 
ma si lasciano poi convincere. Rispetto alla “vulgata” é molto accresciuto il ruolo 
dell’ artista-architetto, cosi come maggiore spazio riceve il giudice incarcerato - che 
é assente nella redazione scoperta da Barbi - che si trova ad essere compagno di 
prigionia del Grasso. Una tradizione vuole che questo giudice raffiguri il notaio 
Giovanni Gherardi da Prato, |’autore del Paradiso degli Alberti e in seguito rivale 
del Brunelleschi, ma é certo che il giurista-truffatore (anch’egli definito “uomo 
dabbene”) agisce come un degno “nipotino di ser Ciappelletto”®, poiché una volta 
intuita l’esistenza di un inganno, si affretta a parteciparvi benché non invitato. Ai 
dubbi ansiosi del Grasso (il cui vero nome é qui Manetto) l’uomo di legge risponde 
che si, la metamorfosi non é un fatto inconsueto, ”siamo tutti sotto questo bastone”; 
cita i casi di Apuleio, Atteone e Circe, e persino di un suo “lavoratore.” Come in 
tutte le versioni della novella, anche qui il Grasso, quando si é ormai rassegnato alla 


®Altri possibili episodici rimandi al Boccaccio, da tempo rilevati dalla critica, potrebbero 
essere a Decameron II, 5 (Andreuccio che non riesce a rientrare nella casa della falsa sorella) 
ea VII, 4 (lo “sfrattato” Tofano). 


Brunelleschi e il Grasso 55 


realta dello scambio delle identita, viene nottetempo riportato a casa, dalla quale 
pero si allontanera, intuita la “‘giarda”, per andare in Ungheria con un compagno, 
dove entrambi diventeranno ricchi. Manetti specifica “secondo la loro condizione”: 
in realta il Grasso fa carriera, diventa “mastro ingegnere.” Tornera pil volte a 
Firenze, sempre cercando la compagnia di Brunelleschi (“mai sapeva stare con altri 
che con Filippo”), che gli dira un giorno: “Io sapevo insino allora ch’io t’avevo a 
fare ricco; e ci é assai che vorrebbero essere stati el Grasso, e fussi loro stato fatto 
di queste natte; e tu ne se arricchito, tu, e sutone familiare dello Imperadore del 
mondo e dello Spano e di molti altri grandi principi e baroni.” 

Ma torniamo agli uomini “di reggimento”: in quegli anni al governo di Firenze 
troviamo nomi importanti, nomi di uomini gia famosi 0 in procinto di diventarlo. 
Nel 1408, per esempio, vediamo tra i Priori (non é per lui la prima volta e non sara 
ultima) Giovanni di Bicci dei Medici, che sta per diventare il banchiere del Papa, 
e quindi l’uomo piu ricco di Firenze dopo Palla Strozzi, che veniva considerato 
Puomo piu ricco d’Europa. Lo stesso Brunelleschi sara uno dei Priori, ma solo nel 
1425, mentre nel 1410 Leonardi Bruni comincia la sua prima esperienza come 
cancelliere della repubblica. In precedenza, tra il 1404 e il 1405, Bruni ha scritto 
la la sua Laudatio di Firenze, |’appassionato elogio della florentina libertas, fondata 
sulla trasparenza delle istituzioni repubblicane: patet curia, patet summum 
tribunal’. Questo era il “mito” ufficiale di Firenze, e l’adesione convinta a questa 
ideologia era un requisito essenziale per un successore del Salutati, ma che da un 
altro angolo la visuale sulla democrazia fiorentina potesse risultare differente é 
attestato dalle Istorie fiorentine di Giovanni Cavalcanti, il quale riassumendo le 
vicende delle “cose di dentro” nel tempo immediatamente precedente |’ascesa di 
Cosimo, espresse la sua convinzione “che fuori dal palagio si amministrasse il 
governo e la repubblica”, e “che il Comune era pili governato alle cene e negli 
scrittoi che nel palagio; e che molti erano eletti agli uffici e pochi al governo” 
(storie fiorentine II,I1). Sono frasi straordinarie, che certamente appartengono ad 
un uomo sconfitto®, ma che forse proprio per questo, - poiché spesso il velo delle 
illusioni € come quello di Maya, e la sconfitta squarcia entrambi, - possiamo trovare 
piu attendibili dei trionfi e delle parate del nuovo come del vecchio regime. In cene 
come quella che decise l’avvenire del Grasso non si compiva solo la promozione 
sociale degli artisti’, ma era anche governata Firenze. Alla decadenza delle 
istituzioni comunali é possibile applicare una precisa definizione in base alla teoria 
politica platonica: Firenze € una citta che sta passando, o é gia passata, dalla 


7 Su Bruni vedi Garin, Umanisti artisti scienziati (166; 35-47). Vedi inoltre Viti. 

* Sul Cavalcanti é molto utile l’ottimo saggio di Varese, “Giovanni Cavalcanti storico e 
scrittore”, Storia e politica nella prosa del Quattrocento (93-131). 

® Sull’argomento é sempre utile Blunt 48-59. 


56 Walter Zampieri 


timocrazia all’oligarchia. Alla lunga crisi del vecchio Comune corrisponde la lenta 
deriva verso il governo segreto. Ma quali erano, quali potevano essere le idee 
politiche di Brunelleschi? Nella biografia scritta da (0 attribuita a) Antonio Manetti, 
in gioventu Brunelleschi é soprattutto “desideroso d’onore”: Manetti lo presenta 
dunque come un cittadino dell’antica, ormai appassita timocrazia fiorentina, che é 
infatti a disagio nella confusione settaria che si € impadronita della citta, come 
provano le difficolta da lui incontrate nella realizzazione dei suoi progetti. 
Brunelleschi é soprattutto un architetto, e anche gli edifici parlano; ha scritto Garin 
che se guardiamo all’Ospedale degli Innocenti “é difficile non pensare a una 
volonta di trasfigurare le colpe e le sventure della societa di oggi in un sogno 
platonico di perfetta repubblica” (Garin 1989, 166). 

Ripensando alle lotte sostenute da Brunelleschi, alla sua insofferenza per il 
sistema delle Arti, ai suoi continui contrasti con le maestranze di operai e di 
artigiani da una parte e con i Signori committenti dall’altra, € altrettanto difficile 
non pensare a quel passo della Repubblica (488 a-e) dove é descritta la difficile 
condizione di una nave il cui governo é messo in pericolo dalle discordie tra i 
marinai e dall’incompetenza del padrone della nave. Lasciate le metafore, Platone 
€ pill esplicito nel trattato dedicato alla figura del Politico (la terza parte di una 
tetralogia mai completata: il Filosofo non fu mai scritto): se esiste un’arte del 
governo, “né la massa dei ricchi né la folla del popolo la possiederanno” (J/ 
Politico, 300e). L’unica collaborazione armoniosa di Brunelleschi con un 
committente (sempre secondo la biografia di Manetti) fu quella con Giovanni di 
Bicci dei Medici, che dunque riveste qui i panni del platonico padrone competente. 
Figura di cui Brunelleschi aveva bisogno, perché anche se era un architetto geniale, 
era un “cattivo fisionomo”, non era un buon conoscitore degli uomini, e dunque non 
sapeva né poteva governarli saggiamente. Questo difetto di Brunelleschi é 
importante proprio perché Filippo di ser Brunellesco é il prototipo dell’uomo 
“universale’’; e il difetto é allora la dimostrazione della necessita della politica, 
dell’esistenza di uno spazio politico e quindi di una scienza della politica destinata 
ad illuminarlo. Sono infatti numerosi i punti di contatto tra l’architetto e l’uomo 
politico, ma é@ anche insormontabile la differenza, come dichiara risoluto lo 
Straniero di Elea: “Va da sé che la scienza reale non comanda affatto, come 
l’architettura, a delle cose senza vita: il suo ruolo é piu nobile, é fra i viventi che 
ella regna ed é su di loro che essa esercita da sempre il suo impero” (// Politico , 
261b). Un altro documento da considerare con attenzione é la cosiddetta 
“intervista” senese di Mariano di Jacopo detto il Taccola, redatta probabilmente tra 
il 1436 e il 1446 e che raccoglie uno sfogo di Brunelleschi sui difficili rapporti tra 
gli ignoranti e i dotti. L’intervista si conclude cosi: “Quelli che se n’intendono sono 
da apprezzare moltissimo, ma molto pit vanno fuggiti gl’ignoranti; gl’ignoranti che 
hanno la testa dura sono da spedire in guerra, mentre gli specialisti dovrebbero 
essere eletti al consiglio, perché danno onore e gloria alla repubblica. Amen” A 


'0 Tl testo (tradotto) dell’ “intervista” é riportato in Garin, Umanisti 161-62. 


Brunelleschi e il Grasso 57 


Sono idee che Manetti, nato nel 1423, potrebbe aver fatto in tempo a sentire 
dalla voce dello stesso Brunelleschi, e sono concezioni indubbiamente molto vicine 
alla teoria politica platonica, se non da essa (oltre che, com’é owvio, dall’esperienza 
personale) direttamente ispirate: al governo deve andare “chi se ne intende”, i 
sapienti dunque, come nella Repubblica e nella settima delle Lettere di Piatone, che 
postula la fine dei mali della citta con I’ascesa al potere dei filosofi (Lettere, VII, 
226,3). La frattura tra sapienti ed ignoranti impone ai primi il rispetto di una 
prudente cautela: “Non comunicare a molti le tue invenzioni” (Noli cum multis 
Participare_inventiones tuas, nel latino del Taccola). Se gli ignoranti sono 
pericolosi, ¢ ancora pili pericolosa la loro “mezza-sapienza”, per la presunzione che 
Paccompagna: 


GI’ ignoranti e gl’incompetenti non ne capiscono nulla, e quando si cerca di spiegare loro, 
€ non capiscono, subito sono mossi all’ira dall’ignoranza, perché vogliono far vedere 
d’intendersene e non possono. Cosi inducono altri ignoranti ad appoggiare le loro 
maldicenze, e a vilipendere quelli che sanno. 

(Garin, Umanisti 162) 


Dalla biografia di Manetti, e poi da quella del Vasari, sappiamo infatti che 
Brunelleschi non si dilungava in spiegazioni, ed era uso tenere celati fino all’ultimo 
i modelli che dovevano illustrare i suoi progetti. Giustamente Garin ha sottolineato 
che non si tratta di un segreto mistico, bensi “tecnico e professionale” (Garin 1989, 
164), ed il punto é proprio questo, perché allora l’ideale politico di Brunelleschi é, 
secondo i documenti finora raccolti, la razionalita al potere, ed é alla luce di questa 
nozione che andranno “letti” anche i suoi edifici e i suoi progetti. Il calcolo e 
l’ingegno dell’artista-intellettuale impongono un ordine matematico al caos 
urbanistico, e allo stesso modo qualcuno “che se ne intende” dovrebbe imporsi 
sulla confusione vociante delle sétte fiorentine. Non si tratta di un puro e semplice 
invito alla dittatura: il presupposto é sempre e solo |’esistenza di una razionalita 
politica, ed é solo in nome del diritto assoluto della scienza che si pud predicare la 
necessita del potere affidato ai sapienti. A Firenze domina invece |’irrazionalita, 
sotto la forma del governo segreto e della sopravvivenza di istituzioni logore e 
ormai svuotate dall’ interno, buone solo per le parate, come facciate trompe-l ’oeil 
di edifici in rovina; come ad Atene poi, a Firenze si pratica l’elezione a sorte di 
certe magistrature, in completa antitesi ad ogni progetto razionale. 

I saggi riuniti in consiglio, e gli ignoranti in guerra. Anche il Grasso va alla 
guerra: segue infatti pil: volte Pippo Spano “in campo.” Non é una carriera normale 
per un artigiano fiorentino del ’400: da oltre un secolo i fiorentini avevano scelto 
come arma la potenza del loro fiorino, e se e quando costretti dagli eventi, si 


58 Walter Zampieri 


servivano esclusivamente di mercenari. Di fatto, nemmeno il Grasso combatte: va 
alla guerra come ingegnere, e qui la faccenda é completamente diversa, perche 
nell’ingegneria militare, anticipando Leonardo, diede prova del suo valore anche 
Brunelleschi. Sembra dunque che alla conclusione della novella la distanza tra i due 
si sia in qualche modo ridotta, come dimostra la speciale familiarita che si stabilisce 
tra i due. Sembra quindi che alla fine il Grasso sia davvero diventato un po’ piu 
savio, ma per capire che cosa ha imparato é necessario ritornare all’ inizio della 
novella, e chiederci quale sia, nella redazione di Manetti, la colpa del Grasso. 

Nella versione pili antica infatti non sembrano esservi dubbi: sciocco, avaro 
e vile, un po’ social climber, il Grasso é la vittima naturale di un ambiente che gli 
si rivela improvvisamente ostile perché in realta non é il suo, mentre la beffa in sé 
sembra dettata da uno spietato contrappasso: poiché frequenta chi é pit di lui, il 
Grasso evidentemente ignora se stesso, e dunque la sua punizione sara diventare un 
altro, Matteo, la cui condizione economica é pure migliore della sua. Nella 
redazione di Manetti é uguale il meccanismo della beffa, ma le motivazioni? Qui 
il Grasso non é né avaro né vile, é un’ottima persona ed é anche simpatico; é 
sciocco, si, ma nemmeno poi tanto se solo uomini molto acuti se ne sono accorti. 
Eppure non c’é alternativa: é dalla sua semplicita e dalla sua mancanza di 
caratteristiche particolarmente rilevate che bisogna partire. Non sara allora che la 
colpa del Grasso é proprio il suo essere in fondo everyman, il suo anonimato, il non 
essersi completamente “individuato”, il che fa si che sia possibile sostituirlo con un 
altro? (Sia pure solo temporaneamente: la beffa si svolge nell’assenza della madre 
della vittima, il cui imminente ritorno non potra che segnare la fine 
dell’esperimento). In fondo, la semplicita del Grasso consiste nel dare la realta per 
scontata, nel credere che le cose stiano in un certo modo perché cosi sono sempre 
state: € una forma di pigrizia e di routine. E la routine e |’abitudine non sono per 
Platone degli innocui passatempi, hanno un risvolto politico e sono un’altra marca 
dell’irrazionalita: sono “il male che rode le nostre citta da un tempo infinito”, come 
é scritto nel Politico (302a), dove é deplorato I’uso di affidarsi al costume ed alla 
tradizione invece che alla scienza. 

Se ogni colpa proviene dal non-sapere, a cui in ultima analisi si riduce, che 
cos’é allora che il Grasso ignora? Forse la natura relazionale della realta o i “fatti 
della simmetria”? Come in un dialogo “dialettico”, per conoscere I’ignoranza del 
Grasso dobbiamo prima definire i limiti del suo sapere, ed é dunque a quest’ ultimo 
che dobbiamo rivolgere la nostra attenzione. II nostro artigiano é un legnaiuolo, e 
specificamente un intarsiatore: mestiere che richiede un ‘indubbia perizia, e che 
certamente non si collocava agli ultimi gradi delle gerarchie fiorentine, se € vero 
che era un legnaiuolo Antonio di Manetto Ciaccheri, continuatore di Brunelleschi 
nella fabbrica di S.Lorenzo (che forse stravolse) e che anche Paolo Uccello studio 
i procedimenti che si impiegavano in quell’arte, il che per la verita Donatello gli 
rimproverd, secondo il Vasari '! (Questo é il momento di ricordare che nella sua 





'\Wedi Vasari 82-82. Ci ricorda poi André Chastel (in Tarsia e prospettiva, incluso in 


Brunelleschi e il Grasso 59 


biografia Manetti non menziona il celebre episodio della “gara” tra Brunelleschi 
e Donatello per determinare chi dei due sapesse scolpire nel legno il crocifisso 
migliore: episodio che ogni fiorentino doveva conoscere, e percid l’omissione é 
significativa). La categoria dei legnaiuoli é dunque pericolosamente contigua a 
quella degli artisti, e potremmo persino spingerci fino ad affermare che ne imita i 
procedimenti, senza pero avere piena coscienza di quello che fa, poiché si affida 
non all’esattezza, bensi all’approssimazione e all’abitudine. Posto in questi termini, 
il rapporto tra artista ed artigiano non poteva non essere percepito, da chi 
frequentava ambienti saturi di platonismo, come analogo a quella tra tra filosofo e 
sofista, e tra il politico e le sue approssimazioni: le figure pseudo-politiche dei 
commercianti, dei burocrati e dei preti (Repubblica 598d e Il Sofista 290b-d). 
Queste dunque le colpe del Grasso, ma che cosa succede “nella sua mente”, perché 
€ li, lo sappiamo, che si svolge gran parte della beffa? Ebbene, il Grasso passa dalla 
pigra certezza della routine all’ansia del dubbio metafisico sulla realta : “Forsitan 
non sunt vera quae nunc nobis apparent, forsitan in praesentia somniamus” per 
metterla in termini ficiniani. Ma nulla ci autorizza a pensare che permanga nel 
dubbio metafisico, e percid non é possibile etichettare la novella come un testo 
ortodossamente (cioé: ficinianamente) neo-platonico. Al contrario: é vero che i casi 
di Apuleio, Atteone e Circe si prestano tutti ad ogni lettura allegorica neo- 
platonica, ma é anche vero che si tratta di una frottola. Cosi come é un’altra frottola 
la “spiegazione” del disordine occorso che i beffatori propongono alla vittima: 





Favole forme, figure 58-68) che “la nuova tecnica della tarsia e la messa a punto della 
prospettiva moderna sono esattamente contemporanee’”’. Proprio Paolo Uccello sembra essere 
stato “l’intermediario fra il mondo elevato degli artisti matematici e quello degli artigiani”, 
ed é in questa luce che va considerato il contrasto con Donatello (ancora Chastel): ““Nessuno 
si € rivelato migliore maestro di prospettiva di Donatello nel Santo a Padova e nei 
medaglioni della sacrestia di San Lorenzo; sebbene non ne avesse mai fatto l’oggetto di uno 
studio privilegiato. Il suo disdegno per gli esercizi matematici ‘in sé’ di Paolo Uccello é la 
reazione dell’artista che intende subordinare la curiosita all’espressione, |’astrazione alla 
‘fisionomia’, il gioco dello spazio all’ intensita affettiva, la scienza alla natura, il calcolo alla 
grande arte. Tale reazione si sarebbe rivolta a tutta una moda; il tono sarcastico del 
rimprovero induce a pensare che press’a poco alla meta del secolo |’ ‘intarsia’ era diventata 
l’ampio terreno dove si applicavano le curiosita matematiche”. Dato il contrasto tra artisti 
ed artigiani, la novita della redazione manettiana della Novella é allora piuttosto da cercare 
nella finale “promozione” del Grasso, ottenuta grazie ad una acquisita consapevolezza di sé 
e della natura in qualche modo trasmessagli dal Brunelleschi. Il fossato tra artisti ed artigiani 
esiste, ma non é incolmabile: sopra di esso sono stati gettati dei ponti. Conclusione che non 
potra sorprenderci se ricorderemo che Antonio Manetti era stato grande amico ( e forse 
collaboratore, se non “maestro” di matematiche) proprio di Paolo Uccello. 


60 Walter Zampieri 


“sniegazione” certo molto vicina alla teoria ficiniana della vacatio animae,'” ma si 
tratta anche qui di un inganno, dalla prima all’ultima parola. Non mi spingerei pero 
fino a vedere nella novella una satira del misticismo neo-platonico: credo 
semplicemente che Manetti, matematico e frequentatore di uomini politici e di 
artisti, fosse uomo troppo pratico e concreto per condividere dottrine che 
nell’artista potevano vedere finanche un “mago.” Se e quando venne anche per lui 
il momento del dubbio, é probabile (e lo attesterebbe la stretta amicizia che negli 
ultimi anni lo lego a Girolamo Benivieni) che Manetti abbia abbracciato una fede 
piu robusta, se non piu tranquillizzante, e si sia unito alle schiere dei fedeli del 
Savonarola. D’altra parte, esempi di “adesione con riserve” al neo-platonismo non 
mancavano nell’ambiente mediceo, a cominciare proprio da Lorenzo, dal suo 
Canzoniere e dal suo Simposio, quello si parodico. I] Brunelleschi di Manetti é 
insomma un eroe tutto umano, nella Vita come nella Novella, come umani sono 
Pinganno e la gloria. 

Torniamo ancora “nella mente del Grasso”, che é ora in preda alla sua 
“fantasia d’ambiguita” (la “vetta linguistica” della novella secondo Contini). La 
fantasia ¢ da sempre la regione del possibile errore, sia che essa venga identificata 
con l’immaginazione (come fa Tommaso d’ Aquino: “phantasia sive imaginatio, 
quae idem sunt”, Summa, 1,78,4), sia che venga distinta da quella (come sembra 
talvolta fare Marsilio Ficino).'? La confusione che si agita nella mente del Grasso 
potrebbe essere il sintomo della sua inferiorita fondamentale, costitutiva, visto che 
proprio nel De amore (VII,14) Ficino ricorda il mito platonico dell’auriga dentro 
la nostra anima, e dei due cavalli: quello “buono”, in cui é da vedere la ragione, e 
quello “cattivo”, che rappresenta, insieme ad altre cose, la phantasiam confusam 
(e un’ interpretazione politica dell’inferiorita del Grasso si potrebbe allora valere 
di Repubblica 431 a-b, dove é sancita la necessita che a comandare sia la parte 
dell’uomo che si identifica con la ragione; da li si passa poi al diritto della scienza 
ad assumere il potere). Ma la tesi di una debolezza intrinseca e irrimediabile del 
Grasso va subito corretta e parzialmente aggiustata, poiché alla fine della novella 
il Grasso cambia davvero, e la sua é una metamorfosi interiore, invisibile e forse 
dagli altri inavvertita, non pero da Brunelleschi. Alla fine della prima redazione 
considerata il Grasso € presentato come un vinto che non tornera pil a Firenze: solo 
 onnipotenza della Fortuna, come nella seconda giornata del Decameron, ha potuto 
salvarlo e farlo anche ricco. Nella redazione di Manetti, il Grasso si € perduto o si 
€ invece trovato? Ha perso il suo laboratorio a S.Giovanni, ma con quello anche 
l’ingenuita, e ha guadagnato il mondo. Non é pit in balia né della routine né della 
fortuna, bensi del suo ingegno. II Grasso fara da solo, affidandosi al coraggio e alla 


'2 Mi riferisco alle Septem vacationis genera, in Theologia Platonica 13. 
'? Anche qui é da vedere Garin, Umanisti 305-17. 


Brunelleschi eilGrasso 61 


sua poca scienza: giochera la sua sorte su uno scacchiere pil vasto e tornera a 
Firenze da vincitore, non solo ricco ma finalmente padrone di sé, come sono gli 
uomini in cui é la ragione a signoreggiare. Che cosa é successo allora nella sua 
mente? E passato dalla certezza degli sciocchi al dubbio metafisico sulla realta, ma 
poi insieme alla beffa ha scoperto una realta nello stesso tempo concreta e precaria, 
e che il mondo intorno a noi, che non dobbiamo mai dare per scontato bensi 
esplorare numero, pondere et mensura, é solo I orizzonte della nostra soggettivita, 
al di la del quale c’é solo la “fantasia ingegnosa” del possibile e del calcolo che 
coinvolge altri uomini. Ha scoperto dunque insieme la potenza e la relativita del 
punto di vista; ha scoperto forse, per un momento che basta a cambiare la sua vita, 
il significato della “dolce cosa” chiamata prospettiva. 

La beffa non é la parodia della politica; ¢ un gioco, e dunque ne é semmai il 
prologo. Prima del duca di Wellington anche Platone sapeva che le battaglie si 
vincono sui campi da gioco, e per riconoscere in anticipo i futuri statisti proponeva 
infatti “la prova del gioco” (// Politico 308d e Le leggi 464). Per questo motivo 
Brunelleschi non é un ciarlatano. Non é nemmeno un mago, come abbiamo visto, 
ma lo potremmo definire un illusionista? Perché certamente nella novella ha 
lavorato sul non-essere, come un sofista (e ciarlatano, mago e illusionista sono per 
Platone i tre epiteti che compendiano I’attivita del sofista). Proprio il dialogo 
intitolato al Sofista ci pud aiutare a risolvere il dubbio; é un dialogo importante, che 
é stato commentato dal Ficino™ che ne ha cosi riassunto l’introduzione: Utrum et 
quomodo philosophus et sophista civilisque distinguantur (non puo non colpirci 
poi la titolatura ficiniana del diciottesimo capitolo: /maginatio non entis ambigua, 
l’ambigua fantasia del non-essere, la regione dove per un po’ si perde il Grasso). 
Il giudizio di Platone sui sofisti ¢ naturalmente negativo; eppure, capita che i 
filosofi prendano talvolta l’apparenza dei sofisti, e talvolta dei politici (216 c-d), 
tanto che lo straniero di Elea é costretto a chiedersi se dopotutto, mentre cercavano 
il sofista, non abbiano invece finito per trovare il filosofo (253 c). Il fatto é che 
Platone, sia pure un po’ a malincuore, deve attribuire ai sofisti anche un compito 
positivo, e cioé quello di “purgare |’anima” delle opinioni che si oppongono al 
conseguimento della scienza, ovvero delle opinioni irrazionali ma comode ed usuali 
(230 b-c-d). A giustificare l’uso di procedimenti sofistici é dunque |’esistenza degli 
sciocchi che credono di sapere, degli ingenui che pensano di possedere la scienza 
mentre non stringono che l’opinione. Questa é l’ignoranza che Ficino nel suo 
commento chiama duplex (“quando scilicet aliquis quae nescit scire se putat’’); ne 
segue, ad opera del sofista, una severa castigatio atque redargutio. Per Platone, nel 
dialogo in questione, questo é il caso dell’ignaro, e anche qui segue l’educazione 


'4 I] commento é stato pubblicato da Allen. I rinvii sono alle pp. 217-18. 


62 Walter Zampieri 


mediante i procedimenti sofistici (Sofista, 229 c). A questo punto é chiaro che 
questa é anche |’ignoranza del Grasso, che crede di conoscere se stesso, mentre si 
affida solo alla routine e all’opinio. La “confutazione di sé” che gli viene 
organizzata da Brunelleschi é allora il castigo e insieme anche |’educazione 
necessari a far cadere il velo dagli occhi dello sciocco. Ma il sofista non possiede 
la verita: la sua non é altro che un’imitazione della saggezza, una doxomimesi, 
poiché si fonda anch’essa, in fine, sull’opinione. II termine, pit! che a Brunelleschi, 
si attaglia ai procedimenti approssimativi degli artigiani, per i quali soccorre anche 
un altro neologismo platonico: la doxocalia (Filebo, 49 d), e cioé |’imitazione della 
bellezza fondata anch’essa solo sull’opinione. Se é talvolta difficile distinguere tra 
il saggio e il suo imitatore, ci insegna Platone, é perché il sofista si nasconde nelle 
regioni oscure del non-essere, mentre il sapiente risiede presso lo splendore 
accecante dell’essere ( // Sofista , 254a); ma per Brunelleschi, che percid non pud 
essere assimilato ad un sofista, il falso si conosce solo per prova (per “sperienza”’), 
come nel sonetto scagliato contro Giovanni di Gherardo da Prato, mentre é 
’impossibile che talvolta diventa vero, come la cupola di S.Maria del Fiore: 

Adunque i versi tuoi convienti stessere 

c’hanno rughiato in falso la carola, 

da poi che ‘I mio impossibil viene all’ essere. 


College of the Holy Cross 


Opere Citate 


Alberti. Giovanbattista. De Pictura. Ed. Cecil Grayson. Bari: Laterza, 1975. 
Allen. Michael. Jcastes: Marsilio Ficino’s Interpretation of Plato’s Sophist. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1989. 
Barbi, Michele. “Una versione inedita della novella del Grasso Legnaiuolo”. Studi di 
filologia italiana 1 (1927): 133-44. 
Blunt, Anthony. Artistic Theory in Italy. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1956. 
Chastel. André. Marsile Ficin et l’art. Genéve: Droz, 1954. 
. Favole forme figure. Torino:Einaudi, 1988. 
De Robertis. Domenico. Editi e rari. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1978. 
Garin, Eugenio. Filosofi italiani del ’400. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1942. 
. Umanisti artisti scienziati. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1989. 
La novella del Grasso Legnaiuolo. A c. di Paolo Procaccioli. Parma: Fondazione Pietro 
Bembo/Ugo Guanda editore, 1990. 
Panofsky. Erwin. Perspective as a Symbolic Form. 1927. New York: Zone Books, 1991. 
Parronchi, Alessandro. Studi su la dolce prospettiva. Milano: A. Martello, 1964. 
Platone. Lettres. Vol. 13. Paris: “Les Belles Lettres” (1960). 
. Les Lois. Vols 11-12. Paris: “Les Belles Lettres” (1951-1956). 
. Philébe. Vol. 1. Paris: “Les Belles Lettres” (1966). 
. Le Politique. Vol. 11, 1. Paris: “Les Belles Lettres” (1960). 





Brunelleschi e il Grasso 63 


. La République. Vols. 7-8. Paris: “Les Belles Lettres” (1965-1967). 

. Le Sophiste. Vol. 8, 3. Paris: “Les Belles Lettres” (1963). 
Procaccioli, P. Parma: Fondazione Pietro Bembo/Ugo Guanda Editore, 1990. 
Prosatori volgari del ’400. Ed. Claudio Varese. Milano-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1955. 
Varese. Claudio. Storia e politica nella prosa del Quattrocento. Torino: Einaudi, 1961 
Vasari. Giorgio. Vite scelte. Torino: Utet, 1964. 
Viti, Paolo. Leonardo Bruni e Firenze. Roma: Bulzoni, 1992. 





Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


“Tra noi non resto piu di differenza”: 
Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 


When Alfonso d’Este succeeded his father Duke Ercole in 1505, his dynasty and 
court stood in firm control of political authority and cultural patronage in their city 
state. In the early years of Duke Alfonso’s reign, Ludovico Ariosto composed 
Orlando Furioso for that aristocratic audience entirely dependent upon the despotic 
rulers of Ferrara. Orlando Furioso fosters the fiction that it simply carries on 
Orlando Innamorato, the popular romance left unfinished by Matteo Maria Boiardo 
in 1494. With this device Ariosto guaranteed himself a ready-made and enthusiastic 
upper class audience: Orlando Innamorato had been the delight of Duke Ercole’s 
circle, especially of the young Estensi, the later poet’s patrons Ippolito and Alfonso 
among them. 

Up to its abrupt interruption, Orlando Innamorato addresses a court which 
could believe that its culture was ascendant, its political hegemony secure. Orlando 
Furioso springs out of what might be characterized as a rather more schizophrenic 
political situation. When Ariosto began his chivalric epic in the first decade of the 
sixteenth century, the interplay of the Estensi’s absolute power at home and waning 
status abroad embodied the kind of underlying conflict in Orlando Furioso which 
Fredric Jameson, in The Political Unconscious, characterizes as a “social 
contradiction” which narrative struggles to resolve on an aesthetic plane (Jameson 
76-79). In Ariosto’s poem, as in the court in Ferrara, prevailing discourse is 
necessarily framed in the language of dominance and subordination. Orlando 
Furioso must play to the powerful while it still tries to engage with the historical 
forces which threaten to overwhelm them. Therefore the poem’s praise of Cardinal 
Ippolito d’Este, his brother Duke Alfonso, and their entourage is extravagant but 
often tinged with irony. 

In Orlando Furioso Ariosto takes on the collection of stock characters and 
plots which Boiardo’s fusion of Carolingian and Arthurian romance bequeaths to 
him.' Ariosto also shoulders the responsibility of completing the story of the 
founders of the Este line which Orlando Innamorato begins. In the first canto of 
Orlando Furioso the narrator promises to continue the tale of glorious Ruggiero, 
descendent of Troy’s Hector and ancestor of the ruling Estensi: 


' For a vast, if never exhaustive, catalog of the sources and antecedents of characters and plots 
in Orlando Furioso, we can always turn to Pio Rajna, Le Fonti dell'Orlando Furioso. 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


66 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


Voi sentirete fra i pil degni eroi, 
che nominar con laude m’apparecchio, 
ricordar quel Ruggier, che fu di voi 
e de’ vostri avi illustri il ceppo vecchio. 
(1.4)? 


The mythical genealogy of the House of Este establishes a priori the conclusion of 
Ariosto’s narrative. 

The audience in Ferrara was as aware as Ariosto himself of the prescribed end 
of his narrative. The entire court, subject to the demands of absolute loyalty to the 
duke, could undoubtedly accept the necessity of flattering the powerful. At the same 
time, Orlando Furioso contains important currents of resistance to simple dynastic 
necessity. Pleasing the powerful does not always preclude a subtle interrogation of 
power itself. If there can be few surprises in the final outcome of Ariosto’s 
narrative, there is still latitude in charting the course to that end. What engages our 
interest today is not the poet’s acquiescence to the demands of power but rather his 
text’s resistance to those demands. Ariosto’s composition delicately balances 
between the clear need to validate the lineage of the Estensi and resistance to the 
authority embodied in the Duke, his family, and his circle. Orlando Furioso 
simultaneously manages to celebrate the Estense court and undermine its values. 

If it is too dangerous, even for a poet who could count himself a member of the 
aristocratic elite, to interrogate openly existing power structures, then any challenge 
must be submerged and displaced. Orlando Furioso disrupts codes and expectations 
which at first glance do not seem to bear directly on the question of political and 
social authority. Take, for example, the question of genre in Ariosto’s narrative. 
Boiardo’s poem already represents, in Charles Stanley Ross’s words, “a 
battleground for modalities ranging from epic to romance, lyric to narrative, 
mimetic to omamental, humanistic to popular” (Boiardo, Introduction 21). The later 
work accepts and then elaborates on that heady mix of literary modes. 

Each genre brings to its readers a set of assumptions about what constitutes that 
genre, or, rather, as Culler asserts, “competent” readers bring to the text at hand a 
consensus about the essential elements of that genre (1 13-300). Look for a moment 
at the two principal genres transmitted by Boiardo to his successor: romance and 
epic. We assume that romance handed down through popular Italian romanzi will 
feature a great variety of knights, kings, princesses, enchantresses, monsters, all 
involved in intersecting subplots. Chivalric romance — with its endless round of 
duels and battles among knights who try to best one another with incredible feats 
in rather cartoon fashion — can express both the ethic and the anxieties of a rigidly 
hierarchical society dominated by a powerful prince. In this genre, with its elaborate 
and utterly artificial chivalry embodied in the behavior of the male heroes, we 


* All quotations are to canto and stanza from Orlando Furioso, ed. Marcello Turchi. 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 67 


recognize the fanciful enactment of the patriarchal values of an Italian Renaissance 
court. 

Other conventions of romance, on the other hand, work in favor of the 
narrative’s refusal to acquiesce easily to the demands of power. Chivalric romance 
constantly interrupts itself, depending upon “entrelacement,” the intertwining of 
elaborate plots and subplots, to propel the narrative. Parker notes that this 
interweaving of plots marks romance as a form “which simultaneously quests for 
and postpones a particular end, objective, or object . . .” (Parker 4). The deferral 
of conclusion — coclusion” in the sense of the end of a plot as well as in the sense 
of acceptance of a single point of view — serves Orlando Furioso’s resistance to 
political and dynastic necessity. For example, the constant shifting from one sub- 
plot to another, from one principal figure to another, lets Orlando Furioso put off 
for as long as possible the moment in which characters such as Orlando, 
Bradamante, or Ruggiero must step into their final socially and politically mandated 
roles. By the final canto of the poem, the long-anticipated celebration of dynasty, 
the wedding of Ruggiero and Bradamante, seems rather an anti-climax. 

To turn to Orlando Furioso’s other principal literary mode, we expect a single, 
important hero who gradually realizes his historical mission to stand at the center 
of a dynastic epic.’ In fact, this model of Virgilian epic in Orlando Furioso does 
serve the apotheosis of the Estensi well. Ross believes that it is in Boiardo’s 
Rugiero that disparate elements of Virgilian epic and romance might be reconciled: 


The Jnnamorato’s new cynosure, Rugiero . . . seems destined to synthesize the hitherto 
competing values of romance and heroic epic as much as humanly possible. . . . His ability 
to combine competing values (a supreme but subtle compliment to the Este family) is further 
indicated by the fact that Ruggiero’s destined wife, Bradamante, is the sister of Ranaldo who 
replaces Oliver as Charlemagne’s second greatest knight. . . . 

(Boiardo, Introduction 9) 


What Ross anticipates as the synthesis of epic and romance in the character 
Ruggiero does not come easily in Ariosto’s narrative. Orlando Furioso does not 
arrange the family history in exactly the way dynastic epic might have it. Early in 
the first canto of the poem the narrator promises to tell of “l’alto valore e chiari 
gesti” (I. 4) of Ruggiero. We know that Ruggiero will be the founding father of the 
House of Este and that therefore Ruggiero must be the latter day Aeneas. But, 
contrary to the expectations it arouses early in Canto I, the poem puts off realizing 
the inevitable Aeneas/Ruggiero analogy for as long as possible. Ruggiero does not 
stand squarely in the center of the action in most of Orlando Furioso. He does not 
earnestly seek his destiny and his bride. In fact, it quickly becomes apparent that the 


3 For a description of the development of the dynastic epic on the Virgilian model, see Fichter 
1-22. 


68 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


narrator is shifting the role of Aeneas to a second noble knight/ancestor of the 
House of Este unmentioned in his original promise: Bradamante. It is Bradamante 
plays the brave and steadfast knight while Ruggiero wanders throughout much of 
Orlando Furioso . 

In Canto III Bradamante clearly occupies the place of Aeneas in Book VI of 
the Aeneid. In that book, Aeneas descends to the underworld and encounters his 
father Anchises, who shows his son his illustrious Roman descendants. In a comic 
reprise of the Virgilian hero’s journey, Pinabello abruptly drops Bradamante into 
a cave with an oak which recalls Aeneas’ golden bough. There she finds the 
sorceress Melissa, who plays Anchises to Bradamante’s Aeneas and foretells the 
glorious Este lineage which will spring from Bradamante’s union with Ruggiero. 
Ever cognizant of the historic destiny of their descendants, Bradamante becomes 
the hero who accepts the responsibility of dynasty. The woman knight’s search for 
Ruggiero is temporarily transformed into an epic mission which parallels Aeneas’. 

Here the poem’s subversion of the expectation invoked by the narrator’s 
original promise to tell the story of the founder of the House of Este — that is, the 
conviction that the first and only Aeneas-like figure will be the brave, male ancestor 
cited in the fourth stanza of Canto I — illustrates how perceived conventions of 
genre can translate into assumptions about another code as well. That is, we as 
readers are conditioned to expect that the epic hero will be male. Although we are 
assured by the narrator that “quel Ruggiero” belongs in the pantheon of “i pit degni 
eroi” (I. 4) in Orlando Furioso, the woman knight Bradamante has already played 
out the role of Aeneas in the underworld by Canto IV. Our prejudices about gender 
should be confirmed by the assumptions we make about the dictates of genre; 
instead the poet of Orlando Furioso serves notice that we cannot take the expected 
gender roles within genres for granted. Ariosto’s poem will play generic codes and 
conventions off one another. 

Jameson asserts that a system of binary oppositions has always been especially 
important to romance. Speaking of earlier romance, Jameson defines the 
“conditions of possibility” of the genre: 


Thus. . . it would seem that this genre is dependent for its emergence on the availability of 
a code of good and evil which is formulated in a magical, rather than a purely ethical sense. 
This code finds its expression in the vision of higher and lower realms in conflict, yet it does 
not seem inconsistent to suggest that it is itself dependent on a kind of historical coexistence 
within the social order itself between two distinct moments of socioeconomic development. 
Romance as a form thus expresses a transitional moment, yet one of a very special type: its 
contemporaries must feel their society torn between past and future in such a way that the 
alternatives are grasped as hostile but somehow unrelated worlds. The social antagonism 
involved is therefore quite distinct from the conflict of two groups or classes within a given 
social order... . 

(Jameson, “Magical Narratives: Romance as Genre” 158) 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 69 


Like earlier romance, Ariosto’s poem finds itself suspended between past and future 
which seem mutually exclusive: at what seems to be the height of their political and 
cultural achievements, the princely courts of smaller Italian city states like Ferrara 
are exposed as relatively powerless to effect the outcome of events on the Italian 
peninsula. Unlike earlier romance, however, Ariosto’s narrative refuses to frame its 
action within a moral or political system which depends upon strict binary codes 
(good/bad, past/present, Saracen/Christian, male/female, among others). The 
meaningful opposition which looms over the action in Orlando Furioso is the 
contrast between power and powerlessness. But Orlando Furioso must displace the 
consideration of the forbidden question into a disruption of other binary codes. 
Time is no longer a simple linear progression; past and present circle back on one 
another. Until very nearly the end of the poem, Christian and Saracen knights alike 
gallop away from battles and shirk political and military duties. Perhaps the most 
important reflection of slippery power relationships in Orlando Furioso, however, 
is in the variable constitution of gender identities. Weak men can seem women, and, 
perhaps more surprising, powerful women can be represented as male. 

Orlando Furioso must celebrate the ruling dynasty in Ferrara. Therefore, in the 
interest of good political and social order, the poem must ultimately invest power 
and authority in male figures and resolve the epic plot in favor of the patriarchal 
family and state. Since power resides in what is male and what is female is 
powerless in contrast on the levels of both narrative and imagery, there can be no 
central role in Orlando Furioso for conventionally feminine characters, even though 
in recent years feminist critics have restored the debate about women’s nature and 
status to the important position it actually occupies in Orlando Furioso. * Most 
women are lusted after, pursued, hoarded, traded, but never valued for any positive 
intrinsic qualities. All female characters except the knights Marfisa and Bradamante 
are safely disposed of by the end of the epic. 

By passing for men and participating in the activities (and therefore the 
authority) of aristocratic men, the two transvestite women knights, Bradamante and 
Marfisa, throw off a simple male/female symmetry. But there is no way in which 
these two characters represent a fusion of stereotypical male and female 
characteristics, a viable androgynous alternative to the unequal poles of male and 
female in Ariosto’s narrative. If the two women/knight characters hold out no 
possibility of androgyny as a solution to an obvious imbalance of power, they 
equally do not point the way to a new relationship between male and female in the 
claustrophobic environment of an Italian Renaissance court. Orlando Furioso is 
permitted to disrupt the supposedly fixed categories of male and female only as long 
as it proposes no definite alternatives to them. In Ariosto’s poem, forbidden 


* See especially Benson; Shemek; Finucci. 


70 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


discourse about power and powerlessness is translated into sometime confusion 
about what is male and what is female, and the play of gender identities allows a 
cheerful interrogation of power in a society whose despotic rulers would brook no 
open insubordination. The transvestite women knights highlight the problematic 
constitution of masculinity; they do not open the door to a redefinition of 
femininity. Bradamante and Marfisa provide the means by which male identity and 
authority (and therefore existing power structures) can be examined and exposed 
as vulnerable. 

These women knights themselves are hardly Ariosto’s original creations. The 
immensely popular tradition of chivalric romance passed down through Boiardo 
provided the later poet with not only a collection of famous male knights but also 
the stock figures of female knights (Tomalin 38-58; 118-25; Rajna 45-55). Ariosto may 
draw Marfisa and Bradamante from the chivalric literature which Boiardo and his 
contemporaries mapped out as the special province of the aristocracy of Ferrara, but 
Orlando Furioso obstinately declines to acknowledge the connection between these 
women knights and their immediate predecessors from Italian romance. The two 
women knights in Orlando Furioso have a second important pedigree; they descend 
from a long line of classical ancestors, starting with amazons and other warriors like 
Harpalyce, Penthesilea, and, of course, Camilla from Book XI of the Aeneid. So 
references to Bradamante’s and Marfisa’s genealogy based upon Greek and Roman 
literature abound throughout Orlando Furioso, and the litany of earlier warrior 
women’s names reinforces the self-conscious classicism of the poem. For example, 
when Bradamante gives an account of herself as a woman involved in war to 
Fiordispina in Canto XXV, she finds it convenient to draw parallels with well- 
known classical models: 


Con modo accorto ella parlar ridusse 
che venne a dir come donzella fusse; 
che gloria, qual gia Ippolita e Camilla, 
cercane l’arme... 
(XXV 31-32) 


The allusions to the classical origins of Ariosto’s women knights also serve an 
important political end, for they satisfy the ruling family’s desire to compare their 
ancestors to famous figures of Greek and Roman mythology. 

Analogies between Marfisa and Bradamante and their classical predecessors 
might lead us to assume once again that we are on familiar ground, but the Orlando 
Furioso manages to sidestep the outcome those references imply. Roche points out 
that classical narratives about women warriors usually have them safely slain in 
battle. He suggests that the introduction of Marfisa in Canto XVIII of Orlando 
Furioso is meant to recall Camilla in Book XI of the Aeneid, with a twist on the 
allusion typical of Ariosto (Roche 115-16). In Virgil’s epic, Camilla pursues an 
enemy with gold armor she covets and loses track of the battle around her. Another 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 71 


enemy, Arruns, stalks and kills the distracted Camilla. When Marfisa appears for 
the first time in Canto XVIII of Orlando Furioso, she arrives at Norandino’s 
tournament in Damascus and recognizes the armor stolen from her in Orlando 
Innamorato now offered as the tournament prize. Roche equates Marfisa’s headlong 
rush toward her armor in Orlando Furioso with Camilla’s pursuit in the Aeneid. But 
Marfisa’s attempt to secure the armor is successful. Ariosto’s episode of prized 
armor marks the appearance, not the demise, of the woman warrior (Roche 115-16; 
131-33). Unlike the classical women who do battle with men, the Italian poet’s 
fighting women will survive the war. 

While Ariosto may choose to underline that his is an elite, literate audience by 
alluding to only classical antecedents of his women knights, Orlando Furioso 
actually depends upon evolution of warfare and military costume reflected in later 
chivalric tales to set up its critique of male identity and power. That is, amazons and 
other fighting women in Greek and Roman literature do not disguise their 
appearance in order to participate in combat. They can easily be identified as 
women on the battlefield. In contrast, when women knights of chivalric romance, 
especially Marfisa and Bradamante, take part in male-identified activities, they 
encase themselves in armor, close their visors, and become superficially 
indistinguishable from men. Dressed in men’s regalia, they seem to be men. To 
most other characters in Orlando Furioso, Marfisa’s and Bradamante’s armor and 
prowess in battle are adequate signifiers of masculinity. 

Bradamante gallops into the first canto of Ariosto’s poem, and Sacripante 
identifies her as that “uom gagliardo e fiero,” which her costume and arms imply 
she is. In Canto XXXV Ferrati gazes upon his opponent on the field of combat and 
responds to that opponent’s appearance: “Questo un angel mi par del paradiso” 
(XXXV. 78). Ferra does not immediately perceive that his armed challenger is a 
woman. Instead he attaches greater significance to the visible paraphernalia of 
manhood than to the lovely face he contemplates as she holds up her visor. 
Ruggiero also depends on the simple, external signs of masculinity and believes that 
Marfisa is a man when he first encounters her in battle: 


E s’ella lui Marte stimato avea 
stimato egli avria lei forse Bellona 
se per donna cosi conoscea, 


come parea il contrario alla persona. 
(XXVI. 24) 


The misidentification of Marfisa and Bradamante as men in Orlando Furioso 
establish that male identity, though clearly a site of power, can be appropriated by 
anybody with a strong arm, a sword and a suit of armor. 

What is more, dressed as knights, Bradamante and Marfisa do conform to the 


72 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


norms of the (male) warriors they seem; they observe the same code of behavior 
which governs the male knights. The ethos of chivalric epic beloved by the court 
in Ferrara requires that knights care about personal glory, free the unjustly 
imprisoned, protect weak ladies, maintain oaths of loyalty to their hierarchical 
superiors. So, in Canto XXVI of Orlando Furioso, responding to the requirements 
of this chivalry, Marfisa joins in freeing Malagigi and Viviano after she hears of the 
story of their captivity. In Canto XXXV Bradamante agrees to Fiordiligi’s appeal 
to overthrow Rodomonte and free her beloved Brandimarte. Later, when 
Bradamante asks Charlemagne’s permission to marry only a man who can equal or 
surpass her in single combat, she makes the request as a loyal vassal and 
commander who has served her lord well. If she were obliged by customs governing 
women, she would have to obey her parents and marry Leone right away. 

In Canto XXXII Bradamante performs like the valiant warrior she seems and 
then exposes the illusion which lies at the base of male prerogatives and authority. 
When she arrives at the Rocca di Tristano, Bradamante is obliged, as one defined 
as a knight by her costume and manner, to defeat the knights already lodging in the 
castle. She easily unhorses all three opponents. After she reveals that she is a 
woman, the keeper of the castle invokes another rule of the house that requires a 
beauty contest between Bradamante and Ullania to decide which woman may pass 
the night in the castle. Bradamante wins this contest too, but she immediately 
disputes the decision. Like any good knight, she defends the lady Ullania, who is 
about to be turned out into the cold. Bradamante demonstrates an awareness that she 
partakes of male prerogatives so long as she dresses and behaves like a man: 


Io ch’a difender questa causa toglio, 

dico: o pit bella o men ch’io sia di lei, 
non venni come donna qui, né voglio 

che sian di donna ora i progressi miei. 
Ma chi dira, se tutta non mi spoglio, 

s’i0 sono 0 non son quel ch’é costei? 

E quel che non si sa non si de’ dire, 

e tanto men, quando altri n’ha a patire. 

(XXXII. 102) 


Her armor and her prowess in combat confer on Bradamante the status of a high- 
born man. Amon’s daughter holds that she has won her place in the castle as a 
knight and therefore it should never be jeopardized by a beauty contest. Bradamante 
asserts that the decision against Ullania who can compete only as a beautiful lady 
is inherently unfair and must be thrown out. Her eloquent plea aside, it quickly 
becomes clear from what source Bradamante’s authority as a (male) knight derives 
as she concludes: 


E s’alcuno di dir che non sia buono 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 73 


e dritto il mio giudizio sara ardito, 
saro per sostenergli a suo piacere, 


che ‘I mio sia vero, e falso il suo parere. 
(XXXII. 106) 


In the end, the narrative slyly notes, the keeper of the castle is more moved by her 
threat than by her argument. If Bradamante can beat any man in sight, then she gets 
to be judged as a man. 

Marfisa stands as one of the chief proponents of violence as an essential, 
defining attribute of knighthood, and therefore of masculine identity. In Canto XIX 
Marfisa wants to be included in the drawing for the defender of her group against 
the champions of the “femine omicide” even though the contest includes making 
love to ten women after defeating ten men in battle. When confronted by this double 
challenge, Marfisa, never daunted, brandishes her sword: “ma dove non I’aitasse la 
natura,/con la spada supplir stava sicura.” (XIX. 69). This woman knight’s 
insistence that just a sword will be adequate for all trials simply extends the 
definition of where arms are sufficient. It is worth noting that in this episode 
Marfisa is right. Her strength in battle so impresses her last opponent, Guidon 
Selvaggio, that he hosts her and her companions the night before he and Marfisa 
must conclude their fight to the death. That evening Marfisa is revealed as a woman, 
Guidon as a member of the family of Rinaldo and Bradamante. In true romance 
fashion, deadly enemies become friends and allies. They resolve to escape together 
from the land of murderous women. Marfisa never has to confront ten women in 
bed. Her sword alone has been sufficient for this contest. 

After they escape, Marfisa leaves her companions and resumes her life of 
knight errant. As she departs, she reiterates her conviction that individual prowess 
is the distinguishing attribute of a knight: 


Sceser nel lito, e la medesima ora 

dai quattro cavallier congedo prese 
Marfisa, e da la donna del Selvaggio; 
e piglid alla ventura il suo viaggio, 


dicendo che lodevole non era 
ch’andasser tanti cavallieri insieme: 
che gli storni e i colombi vanno in schiera, 
i daini e i cervi e ogn’animal che teme; 
ma |’audace falcon, |’aquila altiera, 
che ne |’aiuto altrui non metton speme. 
orsi, tigri, leon, soli ne vanno; 
che di pit forza alcun timor non hanno. 
(XX. 102-103) 


74 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


Here Marfisa, proud, solitary knight, becomes the epitome of the values of 
traditional chivalric romance. 

In her role as perfect knight errant, Marfisa soon enters into a brief association 
which leads to the exposure of the limits of the code of behavior associated with 
chivalric epic. When a transvestite woman assumes the role of knight matched with 
a lady, the gender confusion which follows provides a comic commentary on 
knighthood (and therefore powerful male-oriented convention). Toward the end of 
Canto XX of Orlando Furioso, Marfisa happens upon treacherous Gabrina. The hag 
begs Marfisa to help her cross a river, and, in an act of generosity, the woman 
knight carries Gabrina on her horse beyond the river. The narrator plays with 
contradictions in appearance and social roles to underscore the limitations which 
are imposed on Marfisa by assumption of the role of a traditional knight (even in 
jest).5 Marfisa’s encounter with Gabrina becomes a parody of the traditional 
relationship of knight and lady. Matching two characters of the same sex playing 
different gender roles intensifies outlandish elements of interactions dictated by the 
chivalric code of romance. 

When Marfisa unhorses Pinabello in a dispute over his lady’s comments about 
ugly Gabrina, she claims his lady’s clothing and palfrey for the old woman whom 
she jokingly champions. In her new finery, repulsive Gabrina becomes she “che 
quant’ era pit ornata, era pit! brutta” (XX. 116). Here it is apparent that, as always, 
the same standards do not hold for knights and ladies. Marfisa dressed as a knight 
seems a man, even though she is a woman. But if armor, weapons, and ability to 
fight make Marfisa a man/knight, nothing can make Gabrina, although obviously 
a woman, a lady. Ladies must be noble, young and beautiful. They are vulnerable 
and require the vigilant protection of a knight, although, as we see here, the knight 
need not always be male. Ladies therefore have fundamental qualities which their 
costumes cannot hide. Knights do not; a character can be identified as a knight by 
his/her armor and other paraphernalia. In Orlando Furioso, clothes often make the 
man, but they cannot make the lady. 

With Gabrina Marfisa mimics a courteous knight’s behavior toward a lady up 
until she insists, in a comic reversal of the usual protocol, that the loser of her joust 
with Zerbino get the lady. The conventional, romance relationship between knight 
and lady has been turned upside down, but literal-minded Zerbino does not get the 
joke and honors his pledge to protect Gabrina. If, in her association with Gabrina, 
Marfisa provides the comic commentary on the chivalry of romance, Zerbino 
provides a more serious one. Even faced with Gabrina’s treachery, Zerbino still 
clings to an outmoded ideal and maintains his word to protect her. When Gabrina 
betrays Zerbino, Orlando must save him. 


5 For a fuller discussion of the specific language which heightens the contrasts between 
Marfisa and Gabrina and the entire episode of Gabrina in its relationship to the failure of 
chivalry in Orlando Furioso, see Masciandaro. 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 75 


In Canto XXIV Zerbino and Isabella find Orlando’s arms where the now mad 
count has thrown them. Zerbino still honors his debt to Orlando, and, besides, he 
adheres to the principles which dictate that he must win, not simply appropriate, 
arms of other knights. So he and his lady gather up the count’s armor and sword and 
hang them on a nearby pine. Mandricardo, who suffers from fewer scruples than 
Zerbino, seizes Durindana, the famous sword of Orlando, and a duel between 
Mandricardo and Zerbino follows. It is Durindana that Zerbino cannot withstand. 
Zerbino dies from a wound inflicted by the weapon once wielded by Orlando, his 
cherished benefactor. 

A series of episodes which begin with Marfisa’s jesting acceptance of ugly, old 
Gabrina as her lady becomes a critique of the chivalry of romance. The 
transgression of sex/gender expectations in the Marfisa/Gabrina encounter starts to 
unravel the code of behavior which has often been an integral part of chivalric 
literature. Zerbino is the chief casualty of blind adherence to this code. Beautiful 
Isabella, left without adequate protection at the death of Zerbino, is ultimately a 
victim of her beloved’s misplaced ideals as well. What begins with a playful parody 
of the relationship of knight and lady with Marfisa and the ugly old woman in Canto 
XX concludes with a sinister replay of knight and lady with Rodomonte and Isabella 
in Cantos XXVIII and XXIX. Isabella falls into the hands of Rodomonte. Realizing 
that he intends to rape her, Isabella persuades her captor that she has an herbal 
potion which will make him invincible, and the young woman tricks the drunk King 
of Sarza into testing the potion on her. The conventional role of a knight-protector 
is twisted around, and in Canto XXIX Rodomonte beheads the princess whom he 
would have as his new lady. 

In these intertwined episodes, Orlando Furioso creates two important 
opportunities to undermine the ethos of chivalric epic so closely identified with the 
Estense court: first, by gently mocking the requisite knight/lady combination when 
transvestite Marfisa violates gender roles with her protection of Gabrina, and then 
later, more seriously, by demonstrating that those knights like Zerbino who blindly 
adhere to a lofty moral code of chivalry from earlier romance will perish. The 
undermining of romance chivalry here becomes a coded comment on the shifting 
values of the despots and their courtiers who delight in courtly epic. In the court of 
Ferrara, moral scruples and political loyalty could be as dangerous as Durindana or 
the deadly sword wielded by ferocious Rodomonte. 

We have seen that in Orlando Furioso, while one of the essential attributes of 
knighthood — and therefore of strength and authority — seems to be masculinity, the 
perfect alignment of knighthood and masculine identity is subject to radical revision 
in the characters of Bradamante and Marfisa. Seen in this light, the seemingly 
isolated tale of Fiordispina, Bradamante and Ricciardetto in Canto XXV can be 
reinterpreted as an open-ended, problematic fable about the definition of 
masculinity. It seriously undermines customary definition of masculine authority in 


76 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


the poem. If power and status are invested in knights, and knights must seem and 
act like men, then, by logical extension, to call into question any fundamental 
construct of masculinity in Orlando Furioso challenges, however obliquely, the 
values and power of the poem’s aristocratic audience. 

In Ariosto’s completion of the final scene of Boiardo’s unfinished romance, the 
assignment of gender identity shifts with dizzying speed. In Orlando Innamorato, 
a monk has cut off Bradamante’s hair “come a garzone” to treat her head wound, 
and so the woman knight looks like a man even with her helmet off. After leaving 
the hermit, Bradamante stops in a forest, removes her helmet, and falls asleep 
beside a stream. There Fiordispina happens upon her. The Spanish princess 
immediately falls in love with the sleeping knight. Bradamante awakes and observes 
her companion’s obvious desire. With an off-color playfulness she is not allowed 
in Orlando Furioso, Bradamante comments wryly to herself: “. . . Qualche una mal 
contenta / Sera de noi e ingannata alla vista,/ Ché gratugia a gratugia poco 
acquista.” (Orlando Innamorato II1.ix.11). All the while Bradamante subtly 
encourages Fiordispina even though she insists she does not have what the princess 
wants: 


Oe Pied d vate Quest dono é tale 
Che a meritarlo io non seria bastante: 
Se ben tutto mi dono, poco vale. 
Ma il dar per merto € cosa di mercante, 
E voi, che aveti lo animo regale, 
Degnareti accettarmi quale io sono, 
Che il corpo insieme e l|’anima vi dono. 
(III.ix.12) 


In the last stanzas of Boiardo’s romance, the two beautiful women stand side 
by side, one dressed in armor, the other in a huntress’s dress. The narrator makes 
what Bradamante lacks the focus of this final tableau: 


Ambe tanto legiadre, ambe si belle, 
Che avrian de sue belleze il mondo adorno. 
L’una de I|’altra accesa é nel disio, 
Quel che li manca ben sapre’ dir io. 
(IIT.ix.25) 


The poem remains unfinished. In Boiardo’s narrative Bradamante never reveals 
her sex to Fiordispina, and therefore Orlando Innamorato leaves Bradamante in a 
compromised — and compromising — situation vis-a-vis Fiordispina. 

In Ariosto’s continuation of Orlando Innamorato, the missing part which 
Boiardo’s poem emphasizes in its last stanzas becomes more than just the penis the 
woman knight lacks. The later poet’s multiplication of missing parts represents a 
playful tweaking of his literary antecedent. Ariosto’s narrative performs a typical 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 77 


evasive maneuver and declines to provide a conclusion to the interrupted episode 
of Fiordispina and Bradamante until more than halfway through Orlando Furioso. 
In Canto XXII of Orlando Furioso the newly reunited Ruggiero and Bradamante 
hear of a young man about to executed for being the lover of the daughter of King 
Marsilio. When Bradamante hears of this sentence, she is as concerned about that 
young man as if he were one of her brothers: “né par che men per quel dannato 
tema, che se fosse uno dei fratelli suoi.” (XXII. 42). In fact, as we later learn, she 
has ample reason to suspect that the condemned youth is her twin. At the end of 
Canto XXII, Ruggiero and Bradamante become separated when the woman knight 
chases her enemy Pinabello. Ruggiero rides on alone toward the city in which the 
young man will be burned at the stake. Bradamante does not participate in the 
rescue of Ricciardetto. 

The proliferation of missing parts continues. First Ariosto’s narrative sidesteps 
offering a conclusion to the episode of Fiordispina and Bradamante; then the story 
of the princess and the twins is carefully isolated from the other episodes directly 
involving Bradamante in Orlando Furioso . What is now missing is the immediate 
presence of two of the three main characters in this episode: Fiordispina and 
Bradamante. Ariosto’s rewriting of Boiardo’s interrupted account of the Spanish 
princess and the woman knight becomes a “fabula” Ricciardetto recounts to 
Ruggiero. For the moment, a man appears to controls the discourse about women. 

Ferroni reminds us that major features of the episode — women warriors 
mistaken for men, men dressed as women to seduce unsuspecting young women, or 
the exchange of twins of different sexes — are stock items in romance, novelle, and 
comedy (143-46). They all represent plots in which the sex and gender identity of 
characters become detached from one another. In Canto XXV of Orlando Furioso 
combinations and recombinations of sex and gender are unusually complicated. 
Bradamante appears to be a man. Believing appearances, Fiordispina falls in love 
with her. In Ariosto’s narrative, Bradamante immediately discloses to Fiordispina 
that she is a woman, but it is too late for Fiordispina to abandon her love. The 
woman knight accepts her admirer’s invitation to spend the night at her castle. That 
evening Fiordispina dresses Bradamante as a woman to try to convince herself that 
she should not love someone she presumes cannot satisfy her. But Fiordispina still 
vainly wishes Bradamante were a man and longs for sexual satisfaction: “solo il mio 
desiderio é senza fine!” (XXV. 34). The next morning Bradamante flees the 
desperate Fiordispina. When she arrives at her parents’ castle, she tells the story of 
the princess’ passion to her twin Ricciardetto. He steals his sister’s male costume 
and horse to make Fiordispina believe that he is the woman dressed as a man with 
whom she has already fallen in love. Later that evening Fiordispina dresses 
Ricciardetto, who is still masquerading as his sister, in women’s clothing to 
demonstrate to her court that the woman knight has returned. Ricciardetto’s 
performance is so persuasive that many men at court flirt with him. When the young 


78 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


man and the Spanish princess are finally left alone in her bedroom, Ricciardetto 
persuades Fiordispina that he has been magically transformed from a woman into 
a man to satisfy her desire. For some months the lovers happily maintain the 
charade that Ricciardetto is a woman so that he can spend every night making love 
to Fiordispina. Ricciardetto never reveals to the princess that he has really taken the 
place of his twin sister. 

In this tale fashion is the first key signifier of gender identity. Encased in her 
armor, with her usually long hair shorn, Bradamante seems a man (since knights are 
male). Believing what she thinks she sees, Fiordispina assesses Bradamante’s 
costume, sword, and short hair as attributes of a man and also finds herself attracted 
to “la faccia e le viril fattezze” (XXV. 28) of sleeping Bradamante. Ricciardetto 
tells Ruggiero that, with his twin’s hair cut in a masculine style: “alcun segno tra noi 
non resto pit/di differenza, fuor che *1 sesso e ’] nome” (XXV. 24). Here, in 
Ricciardetto’s “fabula,” even sex and name are subject to revision, for we can 
assume that Ricciardetto takes on his sister’s name when he puts on her clothing. 
Bradamante’s male and female identities can both be appropriated. Ricciardetto 
assumes Bradamante’s male identity when he steals the horse and surcoat 
Fiordispina has given her. When it comes time for the young man to put on his 
sister’s female identity when he puts on a dress, he can pass because he meets three 
major prerequisites for being a lady: he is noble, young and beautiful. Ricciardetto’s 
story of his magical transformation into a man by a grateful water nymph 
demonstrates that even sex may not be a fixed category in this environment of 
constantly shifting identities. 

In this “fabula” Orlando Furioso introduces ambiguities of gender and 
sexuality and then quickly forecloses some of the logical possibilities they present. 
Ricciardetto’s boasting fairy tale admits some intimations of homoeroticism, but 
his account is based upon a heterosexual youth’s definition of female sexual 
satisfaction. Fiordispina falls in love with a person she assumes to be male. When 
Bradamante explains to Fiordispina that she is really a woman, however, 
Fiordispina’s passion is not altered. Bradamante’s revelation creates a conundrum 
for the Spanish princess. Fiordispina still desires the knight she found sleeping on 
the riverbank, but she also clings to the most narrowly defined ideas about female 
sexuality and therefore can admit no possible satisfaction for her lust. She compares 
her plight unfavorably to that of incestuous mothers and daughters or to that of 
Queen Pasiphae who fell in love with a bull: 


La moglie del re Nino ebbe disio, 
il figlio amando, scelerato ed empio, 
e Mirra il padre, e la Cretense il toro: 
ma gli é pit folle il mio, ch’alcun dei loro. 
(XXV. 36) 


In other words, incest and bestiality are more imaginable than lesbianism. The 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 79 


Fiordispina Ricciardetto creates in his anecdote absolutely requires that a woman’s 
sexual partner have a penis. Sons, fathers, and bulls all meet that basic requirement. 

Finucci reads the episode of Fiordispina as elaborated in Orlando Furioso as 
“a tale of disorder [which] thus points the way to order” (225) once Ricciardetto 
cheerfully supplies what his sister lacks. She insists that there is no serious 
implication of homoeroticism in Fiordispina’s relationship to Bradamante and that 
the entire “fabula” confirms rather confuses heterosexual norms (1 Finucci 202-05; 
211-13). Finucci’s assessment keys off the Spanish princess’s supposed insistence 
that only a male can sexually satisfy a female: 


Né tra gli uomini mai né tra l’armento, 
che femina ami femina ho trovato: 
non par la donna all’altre donne bella, 
né a cervie cervia, né all’agnelle agnella. 
(XXV. 35) 


Finucci isolates the “fabula” recounted by Bradamante’s twin from most other 
episodes in Ariosto’s poem and therefore accepts Ricciardetto’s articulation of 
masculinity and femininity as definitive in Orlando Furioso. 

In contrast, Ferroni declines to accept at face value this episode’s supposed 
definition of male and female. He rightly points out that here Ricciardetto’s tale 
entails no dramatic denouement which reveals the identities and sex of both twins 
and enlightens Fiordispina. It does not reconcile masculine and feminine as 
complementary forces which govern the universe as do many other Renaissance 
stories of twins of different sexes who exchange places (144-45). Because he sees 
no resolution within the young man’s account, Ferroni hears Fiordispina’s 
anguished rhetoric differently. He asserts that the intimation of homosexual passion 
without the admission of possible sexual satisfaction reinforces the tortured 
ambiguity in Fiordispina’s predicament (148). We see that Ferroni’s emphasis on 
the failure to reach a resolution of gender identities in Canto XXV holds the key to 
a different interpretation of the “fabula” of Fiordispina and the twins. First of all, 
even within Ricciardetto’s tale itself, Fiordispina’s hyperbolic rhetoric is undercut 
by the very situation in which she finds herself. If women could never be 
“charming” to other women, if sex were not entirely separable from the indicators 
of gender, then Fiordispina would never conceive her passion for Bradamante. The 
fact that Fiordispina’s passion does not abate when Bradamante reveals herself a 
woman admits the possibility that a woman can fix upon an object of her own sex. 
Here the poem suggests a discontinuity between what the princess may feel toward 
a chosen object of desire (whether male or female) and her attitude as reported by 
boastful Ricciardetto. 

Ricciardetto tries to establish exclusively male discourse about the identity and 


80 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


sexuality of the two absent women. In the young man’s version, it is Fiordispina 
who is deceived, at first innocently by Bradamante, then deliberately by her twin. 
Ricciardetto’s status as one of the “miglior sesso” (XXV. 42; 44) depends upon his 
possession of both a penis and the superior knowledge which permits him to 
misrepresent himself as his own sister magically transformed. In truth, however, 
Ricciardetto himself is not nearly so knowing as he imagines. The young man’s lack 
of knowledge emerges as yet another lack in this episode. 

While he revels in the story of his deception of Fiordispina, Ricciardetto is 
himself deceived, for Bradamante’s twin remains ignorant of his listener’s 
relationship with his sister. Ruggiero deliberately chooses to hide his acquaintance 
with Bradamante. Her brother’s ignorance in another area is more important, 
however, for it allows the disruption of the binary code of male and female and 
therefore destabilizes power relationships in Orlando Furioso. 

About the time Ricciardetto rides along with Ruggiero bragging that he has 
provided what his sister is missing, Bradamante actually acquires a suitable 
substitute. In Canto XXIII, between the time Ruggiero and Bradamante hear about 
the young knight who is to be burned at the stake and the time Ruggiero actually 
frees Bradamante’s twin, the woman knight gets lost and happens upon her cousin 
Astolfo. Astolfo wants to fly off on the hippogriff, and so he leaves with his cousin 
his armor, the enchanted horse Rabicano, and a golden lance which knocks down 
anyone it touches. Ricciardetto supposes he is recounting a fable of masculine 
power, based on the desirability of the penis which he has and which he assumes 
that his sister does not possess. But, if we place Ricciardetto’s tale in the larger 
context of nearby episodes in Orlando Furioso, the young man’s triumphant 
affirmation of his own difference, his own “miglior sesso”, is based a false premise. 
Instead the youth’s boastful tale becomes an ironic comment on his construction of 
masculinity. What Bradamante’s twin believes she lacks has already been 
symbolically supplied by Astolfo in Canto XXIII. 

If Ricciardetto’s twin sister can often pass for a (male) knight on the basis of 
costume and haircut alone, then surely she can perform as a man in many situations 
by virtue of the magic golden lance, a phallic object par excellence. This magic 
lance embodies the knight Bradamante’s (masculine) prowess and authority in the 
second half of Orlando Furioso. With this lance, she fights her way into the Rocca 
di Tristano in Canto XXXII. In Canto XXXV she uses the infallible weapon to 
overthrow ferocious Rodomonte and other knights from the Saracen camp. Armed 
with this lance, Bradamante again proves Marfisa’s premise that a weapon may be 
an adequate substitute for a penis. Women with the proper weapons, such as 
Marfisa with her sword or Bradamante with her golden lance, have access to power, 
which Ricciardetto might mistakenly reserve for men only. 

It is only if we allow the literal and the symbolic to occupy the same plane in 
these alternating episodes in Orlando Furioso that we can appreciate the narrative’s 
critique of Ricciardetto’s simplistic construct of male identity and authority. 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 81 


Bradamante’s twin pridefully claims to satisfy a princess with the penis his sister 
does not possess; his anatomy alone qualifies him as the “better sex”. Ironically, this 
representative of that “better sex” dredges up rh2toric worthy of transvestite 
Marfisa. That is, the young man describes his seduction of Fiordispina in the topos 
of sexual intercourse as battle: 


Non rumor di tamburi 0 suon di trombe 
furon principio all’amoroso assalto . . . 


Usammo altr’arme che saette o frombe 
Io senza scale in su la rocca salto 
e lo stendardo piantovi di botto, 
e la nimica mia mi caccio sotto. 
(XXV. 68) 


What Ricciardetto cannot appreciate is that this ability to do battle with a 
phallic weapon no longer distinguishes him from his sister. The very sign of 
difference he celebrates is already shown up as an inadequate determinant of 
identity and power. 

In Orlando Furioso male identity, patriarchal power, and aristocracy seem 
inseparable. This confluence of attributes opens up possibilities of resistance to 
authority in Ariosto’s narrative, for to disrupt one is to call all into question. Sc it 
follows that if only knights are powerful, and if knights are perceived to be male, 
then Bradamante and Marfisa as non-male knights give the poem the chance to 
mock both fabled chivalry and its associated construction of male identity and 
political power. Bradamante and Marfisa both stand with other knights who have 
lived through the wars at the end of Orlando Furioso. 

In the last cantos of the poem, Ariosto’s narrative necessarily moves to 
celebrate male authority. But the closing epic scene of Orlando Furioso , the 
reenactment of the final duel of the Aeneid which marks the victory of the ancestor 
of Augustus and therefore establishes the legitimate authority of that first Roman 
emperor, is undercut by its relationship to other events in the final cantos of 
Ariosto’s poem.° The concluding action in Canto XLVI of Ariosto’s poem mirrors 
Aeneas’ killing of Turnus. The death in Virgil’s epic, however, ends a war and sets 
the stage for a new political order. The primary war in Orlando Furioso is long 
since over when Rodomonte reappears to challenge Ruggiero. King Agramante has 
been killed by Orlando. There is no epic battle to conclude with the confrontation 
between Rodomonte and Ruggiero; this combat becomes an interruption of the 


° For an illuminating discussion of history and the resistance to the authority of the Estensi in 
the final canto of Orlando Furioso, see Ascoli 377-93. 


82 Margaret Adams Groesbeck 


festivities celebrating the wedding of Ruggiero and Bradamante. Rodomonte, who 
has already been unhorsed once by Ruggiero’s bride with her magic lance, rides in 
among the revelers and belatedly accuses his opponent of having betrayed 
Agramante, his original Saracen lord. In its very incongruity the final scene of 
Orlando Furioso becomes a kind of commentary on itself and perhaps on the family 
whose founding is being celebrated. The illustrious ancestor of the House of Este 
stands accused of failing to honor political obligations (an accusation which could 
easily be leveled against Ruggiero’s supposed descendants in the early decades of 
the sixteenth century). To clear his honor, Ruggiero finally gets to fight and kill a 
great enemy earlier defeated by his wife. In other words, the mantle of Aeneas falls 
on Ruggiero’s shoulders too late; his crossed-dressed bride has already occupied the 
position of Aeneas early in the epic romance. The gender/genre confusion of 
Orlando Furioso has already played with — and perhaps devalued — the role of the 
great hero of the greatest Roman epic. 

Since Ariosto’s poem and other literary chivalric epics of Ferrara were 
composed to glorify and entertain the Estensi, then any negative representation of 
the heroes and their elaborate code of chivalry in these epic romances must be 
construed as a veiled critique of Ferrara’s rulers and their circle. But the court was 
ruled with a heavy hand, and in this city state a poet depended entirely upon the 
patronage of the powerful. No man of letters could point out that his aristocratic 
patrons easily changed political allegiances. He could not openly suggest that those 
who held sway in Ferrara were no longer so powerful beyond the borders of their 
small city state. Orlando Furioso must still frame any interrogation of political 
power in the most circuitous terms. The poem toys with conventional expectations 
about the roles of knights and ladies — about the very definitions of knights and 
ladies, of male and female — to advance its subtle interrogation of power. It 
undermines supposed certainties about gender identity to expose the anxiety and 
vulnerability of an aristocracy whose power is waning. While Ariosto’s dynastic 
epic must ultimately fulfill its obligation to celebrate the fabulous lineage of 
Ferrara’s rulers, at the same time Orlando Furioso still manages to sing the praises 
of those ruling despots a little off key. 


Amherst College 


Men, Transvestites, and Power in Orlando Furioso 83 


Works Cited 


Ariosto, Ludovico. Orlando Furioso . Ed. Marcello Turchi. Milano: Garzanti, 1974. 

Ascoli, Albert. Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony: Crisis and Evasion in the Italian Renaissance. 
Princeton: UP, 1987. 

Benson, Pamela Joseph. The Invention of the Renaissance Woman: the Challenge of Female 
Independence in the Literature and Thought of Italy and England. University Park: Penn 
State UP, 1992. 

Boiardo, Matteo Maria. Orlando Innamorato. Ed., introd. and trans. Charles Stanley Ross. 
Berkeley: U of California, 1989. 

Culler, Jonathan. Structuralist Poetics: Structuralism, Linguistics and the Study of Literature. 
London: Routledge, 1975. 

Ferroni, Giulio. “Da Bradamante a Ricciardetto: interferenze testuali e scambi di sesso.” La 
parola ritrovata: fonti e analisi letteraria. Ed. Constanzo Di Girolamo and Ivano 
Paccagnella. Palermo: Sellerio, 1982. 137-59. 

Fichter, Andrew. Poets Historical: Dynastic Epic in the Renaissance. New Haven: Yale UP, 
1982. 

Finucci, Valeria. The Lady Vanishes: Subjectivity and Representation in Castiglione and Ariosto. 
Stanford: UP, 1992. 

Jameson, Fredric. “Magical Narratives: Romance as Genre.” New Literary History 7 (1976): 135- 
63. 

. The Political Unconscious: Narrative as a Socially Symbolic Act. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 
1981. 

Masciandaro, Franco. “Folly in Orlando Furioso: A Reading of the Gabrina Episode.” Forum 
Italicum. 14 (Spring 1980): 56-77. 

Parker, Patricia. Inescapable Romance: Studies in the Poetics of a Mode. Princeton: UP, 1979. 

Rajna, Pio. Le Fonti dell’Orlando Furioso. 2d ed. Firenze: Sansoni, 1900. 

Roche, Thomas P., Jr. “Ariosto’s Marfisa: or, Camilla Domesticated.” MLN 103.1 (1988): 113-33. 

Shemek, Deanna. “Of Women, Knights, Arms, and Love: The Querelle des Femmes in Ariosto’s 
Poem.” MLN 104.1 (1989): 68-97. 

Tomalin, Margaret. The Fortunes of the Warrior Heroine in Italian Literature: An Index of 
Emancipation. Ravenna: Longo, 1982. 


210 Labatt spi Vine Seyi S ots 





- 7 ® ¥ 
oT 
' % re 
, > G- : " 
rw Mie, 4 « 1a ee 
— ——! enh i -Wis sue 4 
- : 7 a Ai be 1 
7 : o 1 te i fh 7 
Ss tG 7 a ,% 1 eft eee 
oe Ss sch bee 
Peay 
oh U 
. _ mS 4 % _ : 
aye § Oe: a >» lime & =) 
> ee ee Lae a 
itor | 
, =r : pti ——- Gs 
2 oat =e 
a) oD ’ in = 
7 ner 
47 wv ie —-* fi - 
- 7. vt 
‘4 «a yp - =A fie a “7p. 1 te tie 
= : a a 5 
a _ cb - ™ = Aamir a 
: m= & pave 
_ — i- yeiaiionst el iO”? Ga) yee 
” owe ia 
7 ON 2 
aha | >) fio A> Ke ae we “ Mite 
i ' = ov lt Fae Gf? .] ou Dvn 
1. = a > jem i, 8 ene » - 
> yw (igh er , 
cauine §C SelM am on 
HD , Gye 8 winapi 


Deanna Shemek 


Books at Banquet: 
Commodities, Canon, and Culture 
in Giulio Cesare Croce’s Convito universale 


For Gregory Lucente, in memoriam. 


As David Forgacs and Robert Lumley note in the introduction to their recent 
collection of essays on cultural studies, the term cultura in Italy has strong 
associations with education and literacy, and more generally with ‘print culture.”! 
Given Italy’s seminal role in the definition of ‘culture’ along these very lines, one 
might anticipate that the peninsula’s early efforts at linguistic standardization, its 
vigorous formation of a literary canon to project a “national” identity, and its 
employment of the nascent Cinquecento publishing industry to support these 
endeavors would fall somewhere under the volume’s revisionist gaze. But such is 
not the case. Jtalian Cultural Studies, in fact, not only features no discussion of 
Italy’s early modernity. It covers no terrain whatsoever for its broad “cluster of 
disciplines” (1) before the second World War; and the historical vanishing point for 
the chronology offered at the volume’s end is the year 1900. If we may agree upon 
Forgacs and Lumley’s list of the concerns that unify work in cultural studies — the 
regard for “culture as a set of signifying practices and symbolic forms,” attention 
to “‘a wide variety of cultural materials,” the avoidance of “prior evaluative rankings 
of high and low,” and the attempt “to bring new theoretical considerations to bear 
on the study of culture” (1) — we must marvel at the odd confinement of the 
volume’s scope to the current century. 

Italian Cultural Studies is not to be singled out for its lack of historical depth, 
however, since the most popular survey volumes for this new academic enterprise 
relegate material before the nineteenth century to the background, the footnote, or 
the epigraph.” Fredric Jameson comments in his article reviewing the first of these 


' On definitions of culture see also Williams (1983 and 1958) as well as the more recent 
discussion in Frow. My thanks to Margo Hendricks and the participants of the workshop on 
“Commodities and Capital: Book Publishing in the Renaissance” at the 1994 meeting of the 
Shakespeare Association of America, who first responded to parts of this work. 

? The notable (but partial) exception to this rule is the work of Renaissance scholar Peter 
Stallybrass, which appears in two major collections on cultural studies. An essay about 
Shakespeare by Stallybrass is in one volume the only piece (among forty) to focus on a topic 
before the nineteenth century. See his “Shakespeare, the Individual, and the Text” in 
Grossberg, Nelson, and Treichler (593-609). During also includes an essay by Stallybrass 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni 


86 Deanna Shemek 


volumes that “the historians seem particularly perplexed” by the “undetermined” 
relation of cultural studies to their field.’ Yet Forgacs and Lumley’s identification 
of cultural studies methodologies in “literature, social history, media studies, human 
geography, cultural anthropology, and the sociology of deviance” (1), suggests that 
the project owes a clear, if unacknowledged, debt to pioneering Annales school and 
“microhistorical” studies of everyday life, popular practices, literacy, marginal 
groups, mass migrations, and “subcultures” by investigators whose interests ranged 
from antiquity to early modernity.’ Closer to the explicit theoretical canon of 
cultural studies and its political commitments, both those strange bedfellows, 


and Allon White (284-94), this time an excerpt on Freud from their The Politics and Poetics 
of Transgression. Stallybrass and White’s inclusion here is partial and conditional, however, 
as the Reader’s pared version of their longer chapter largely eliminates its references to early 
modernity. The untheorized periodization of cultural studies extends also to the call for 
contributions to the present volume, which sought essays “interdisciplinary or 
transdisciplinary in nature, that explore the relationship between the symbolic and material 
domains of cultural production, primarily in the twentieth century” Annali d’Italianistica 15 
(1997). 

> Jameson reviews the Grossberg, Nelson, and Treichler volume, which features forty essays 
plus dialogue among conference participants and runs to 788 pages. Essays in that collection 
by Catherine Hall (240-69) and Carolyn Steedman (613-20) call attention to this problematic 
relation. Steedman’s hypothesis that basic methodological differences distinguish 
historiography from cultural studies may be apt, but her description of those differences is 
not persuasive. She cites the “expensive” and “undemocratic” practice of archival research 
by historians in contrast to the “group practice” and “text-based” work of practitioners of 
cultural studies. The notion of the archive as an elite space is disturbed (at least for me) by 
the presence in most Italian archives (not to mention those in the New York Public Library 
and many state historical archives in the US) of amateur historians from middle school to 
retirement age, all plugging away at some assignment or family project, certainly involving 
a text, and often conducting their work in pairs and groups. As for the collective practices 
of cultural studies, only three of the forty essays in Cultural Studies bear the name of more 
than one author, while the inclusion of conference dialogue as part of the volume is not 
particular to cultural studies publication. Raymond Williams (1989) also pointed to 
limitations in cultural studies’ insistence on the contemporary as the production of a 
perilously shallow knowledge, in an essay entitled “The Future of Cultural Studies”: “Yet 
how could you carry through the very important work now being done on detective stories, 
for instance, without being able to track back to the crime stories of the nineteenth century 
and grasp the precise social and cultural milieu out of which that form came, so that you are 
then able to add an extra dimension of analysis to what we now say about the form of the 
detective story? Or, in the sociological dimension of Cultural Studies, there is the whole 
problem of the relation between very close-up contemporary work which is crucially 
necessary to history, and the very complicated interpretations of history which are not to be 
diminished, in my view, simply to labour history or popular history. . . .” (151-62). For 
related remarks see Elias (1998). 

* See, for example, Braudel; Elias (1982-3); Ginzburg; Chartier; Davis; Camporesi (1989). 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 87 


Michel Foucault and Antonio Gramsci — not to mention Marx and Freud — grounded 
their readings of contemporary culture in investigations of the premodern; while 
other key figures for cultural studies such as E.P. Thompson, Eric Hobsbawm, 
Raymond Williams, Walter Benjamin, Mikhail Bakhtin, and Michel de Certeau also 
devoted substantial studies to centuries preceding the current one.° Cultural studies 
practitioners might conceivably argue that when Williams or Bakhtin wrote on 
earlier periods they were not “doing” cultural studies, or that these more historically 
focused projects are not the ones from which cultural studies draws its energies; but 
I have yet to see any discussion of this point. More recent, historically focused 
analyses of such typical cultural studies topics as race, sexuality, popular print 
media, museums, and popular religious and erotic practices render the omission of 
premodern materials from the broader cultural studies discussion even more 
perplexing. It appears that investigators focused on earlier cultural contexts are 
indeed learning from cultural studies; but the cultural studies crowd has a decided, 
though unstated, aversion to thinking historically. 

Nearly every spokesperson for cultural studies insists that the field has no 
stable disciplinary base; it ranges, depending on the project, from the 
interdisciplinary to the “post-” or “anti-” disciplinary.’ Cultural studies undertakings 
purportedly define themselves, moreover, not by the materials they take up but by 
the political aims and engagements of their practitioners. And no one, to my 
knowledge, has explicitly argued a historical periodization for this endeavor.* 
Cultural Studies practitioners also remind us repeatedly that they have no clear 


> Jameson also writes, however, of the uncomfortable relations between cultural studies as 
represented in the Grossberg, Nelson, and Treichler volume and the figures of Marx and 
Gramsci. See especially his section entitled, “Cultural Studies as a Substitute for Marxism’ 
(Jameson 27-30), where he indicates the New Historicism as “basic competition with 
Cultural Studies in its attempt to grapple analytically with the world’s new textuality (as well 
as in its vocation to fill the succession to Marxism in a discreet and respectable way)” (19). 
On the New Historicism, see Veeser, especially the opening essay by Stephen Greenblatt 
and the one following by Louis A. Montrose. 

® See as examples among many Hendricks and Parker; Stallybrass and White; Fradenberg 
and Freccero; Burke; Findlen; Watt; Niccoli; Camporesi (1989); and Trexler. 

7 This claim is so frequent as to need little documentation; see as examples the introductions 
to Forgacs and Lumley; Grossberg, Nelson, and Treichler; and Grossberg. 

8 During’s introduction to The Cultural Studies Reader stands virtually alone in its explicit 
declaration that “Cultural studies is, of course, the study of culture, or, more particularly, the 
study of contemporary culture” (1, emphasis in original). Here too, however, the point lacks 
elaboration. Moreover, Stallybrass and White’s inclusion begs a question, for their essay, 
in During’s own volume, on Freud’s Studies on Hysteria suggests that this contemporary 
moment reaches not only back to Freud’s early work in the nineteenth century, but indeed 
into the seventeenth and earlier, where Stallybrass and White’s larger investigation begins. 
During’s reduction of their chapter to minimize its historical depth is a glaring example of 
the problem my essay takes up. 


88 Deanna Shemek 


definition of their field. Most recently, Lawrence Grossberg has noted: “Defining 
cultural studies is a risky business. Lots of people are suddenly claiming to do 
cultural studies while others, nervous about its rather sudden success, are attacking 
it. Yet the fact is that few people working in cultural studies would agree on a 
definition, and that many who claim to “do” cultural studies might not recognize 
themselves in such a definition. This is often taken as evidence of the need to avoid 
offering one” (Grossberg 245). Given this apparently open range, the near silence 
regarding the field’s (lack of) historical scope is nothing short of remarkable. My 
point in these observations is not necessarily to claim cultural studies for “my” field. 
Still less do I mean to suggest that this “symptom” (to borrow one of Jameson’s 
names for cultural studies) has been present all along and therefore constitutes 
nothing new. I do wish to argue that a deeper historical consciousness within 
cultural studies should produce one of two things: an extension of its historical 
perspective, or an explicit theorization of its strictly contemporary focus. As I hope 
to show in what follows, questions and approaches favored by cultural studies can 
help recontextualize figures like the one my essay treats, Giulio Cesare Croce, and 
expose the underside of Italy’s grander Renaissance narrative of cultural flowering. 
At the same time, I intend my brief presentation of Croce’s career and a few of his 
works in the context of this volume as both a provocation and an invitation to 
examine the periodization of cultural studies. 

A 1592 pamphlet published in Ferrara and Bologna by the Bolognese poet, 
Giulio Cesare Croce (1550-1609)’ humorously prefigures Karl Marx’s observations 
on the “social relations between things” which characterize capitalist commodity 
economies. In such fetishistic economies, Marx argues, the line between animate 
and inanimate forces becomes blurred. Products, as supercharged objects of desire, 
displace their producers and seem to take on a life and an agency of their own: 


[T]he labour of the individual asserts itself as a part of the labour of society only by means 
of the relations which the act of exchange establishes directly between the products, and 
indirectly, through them, between the producers. To the latter, therefore, the relations 
connecting the labour of one individual with that of the rest appear, not as direct social 
relations between individuals at work, but as what they really are, material relations between 


persons and social relations between things. 
(Marx 1, 78) 


Croce’s Libraria. Convito universale [The Bookshelf. A Universal Banquet] 
presents a fanciful version of one of literature’s most ancient genres, the intellectual 
feast. This convito in verse, however, depicts no philosophical dinner conversation 
among lofty minded men; rather it portrays a pastoral feast hosted by certain books, 


° On Croce, see Camporesi (1976) and Marini, as well as the introductions and notes to 
Rouch and to Dursi. See also Beer (216-18). Further bibliography appears in the entry for 
Croce by Strappini in the Dizionario biografico degli italiani. 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 89 


in honor of other books, at the mortal expense of still other books. Croce’s 
projection of contemporary class relations among intellectuals onto an allegory 
about social relations among books comments acerbically on the Italian publishing 
industry of his time, which increasingly discriminated between “high” and “low” 
productivity in the arts. As the Convito unfolds, however, it also addresses the most 
serious consequence of such discrimination: the threatened disappearance of a 
genuinely popular-or at least popularizing-literature due to the industry’s vigorous 
promotion of a national canon.’° 

Europe’s first “culture industry” was the production of print. Unlike the mass 
media which eventually resulted from this development, however, the printing 
industry of the sixteenth century labored to associate itself emphatically with high 
culture. Fragmented by its many separate city-states and by enormous linguistic 
variation among its geographically divided population, Cinquecento Italy was 
culturally reknowned but politically weak in comparison to the more centralized 
nation states of France and Spain. Many prominent intellectuals-most famously 
Pietro Bembo-understood that language itself carries political force; they argued 
persuasively that linguistic unification would strengthen Italy against aggressive 
foreign states: “How can we hope to resist foreign invasion,” they effectively asked, 
“when we are linguistically alien to each other?” The primary tool for Italian 
literary standardization became the Venetian printing industry which, through the 
powerful cultural vision of intellectuals like Bembo and such printers as Aldus 
Manutius, Gabriele Giolito, Vincenzo Valgrisi and others, promoted the 
Tuscanization of Italy’s print culture and marketed a canon of national “classics.” 
Ironically, thus, an industry that would eventually play a crucial role in facilitating 


'© Camporesi, arguing that Burke presents a generic version of “popular culture” that is 
inaccurately isolated from the culture of the elite (5), proposes a more articulated set of four 
terms that recognizes Italian culture’s broad foundations in agrarian life: “In realta ci sembra 
che si possa ragionevolmente ipotizzare uno strato pit’ profondo ed arcaico, quello della 
cultura agraria, e uno strato che da questo grande e fertile serbatoio attingeva schemi, motivi, 
figure, vale a dire tutto cid che va sotto la promiscua etichetta di ‘cultura popolare;” cui si 
puod aggiungere la sfera del ‘popolareggiante,’ quando i destinatari di questi messaggi 
appartengono solo in parte alle classi subalterne. Il ‘popolaresco’ attiene, invece, nella sua 
quasi totale integrita alle maniere popolari ‘rifatte’ da intellettuali delle classi superiori, 
riverniciatura letteraria del cosidetto popolare” (33). Presumably according to this scheme 
Croce’s activity falls in the sphere of the popolareggiante in a work like the Convito, while 
in his dialect pamphlets he might rightly be considered a popular author (Camporesi 1991). 
On the cultivation of a literary canon in sixteenth-century Italy and the canon’s relation to 
Italy’s desire for a “national” culture see, among others, Mazzacurati. For a specific case of 
the purposeful creation of a national literary classic through the Venetian printing industry, 
see Javitch. Here and throughout this essay, I use the term national in the extended sense in 
which it appears in Italian sixteenth-century writings. There, it connotes both anxiety 
regarding the absence of any unifying political power to ward off French and Spanish 
invasions and a sense of cultural commonality in natio or race. 


90 Deanna Shemek 


mass literacy campaigned, in its early Italian manifestation, to exclude from print 
the Italians’ most popular verbal arts through a forceful program of linguistic and 
generic restriction.'’ If the most familiar story of Italy’s linguistic unification 
recounts the success of this effort and the birth of a national literature, Giulio 
Cesare Croce gives us some insights regarding what was sacrificed in that process. 

Croce’s wry irreverence for canonical literary culture is already evident in the 
opening quatrain of the Convito, where we find upper-crust texts from Italy’s new 
canon preparing for a high society dinner party. This social event will welcome 
many of the most successfully marketed books of Italy’s sixteenth century : 


Gli Asolani del Bembo una mattina 
Fero un Convito a la Canzon del Caro 
E |’ Arcadia invitar del Sannazzaro; 
Con le Rime di Laura Terracina. '” 


This clever personification reveals its sharper edge in stanza two, where certain 
texts are found to play a quite different role in the festivities: 


Corsero per servire a la cucina 

L’opre del Bernia, e 1 Cantici menaro 
Di Fidentio, del Dolce anco chiamaro 
L’Ulisse, ch’attendesse a la cantina." 


The distinction between those who will consume the banquet and those who 
will staff it is no mystery. Croce’s “host” text is Pietro Bembo’s Asolani (1505), 
the neo-platonist dialogue on love from the author of Italy’s manifesto of linguistic 
unification, the Prose della volgar lingua (1525). In the latter work, of course, 
Bembo famously argued for the adoption of Tuscan as Italy’s standard literary 
language, proposing Petrarch and Boccaccio as the definitive models for all future 


'! Here it is important to distinguish literary from spoken language use, since Italy remained 
profoundly multi-lingual in its oral culture until after the second World War. Though the 
printing industry succeeded in homogenizing the peninsula’s written language, it took other 
mass media — radio and television — to unify Italians in their speaking practices. This 
unification process, though largely achieved, is now being challenged by new waves of 
immigration into Italy from Africa and central Europe, and by the reactionary movement for 
a separate northern Italy (which professes a nostalgia for regional dialects) currently led by 
Umberto Bossi. On the persistence of plurilinguism in Italy today, see De Mauro. More 
generally, see Parlangéli. 

'2 (One morning Bembo’s Asolani threw a banquet for Caro’s Canzone and invited 
Sannazzaro’s Arcadia along with Laura Terracina’s Rhymes). Citations in this essay will 
refer to the 1738 edition published in Verona by Dionigi Ramanzini. All translations, unless 
otherwise noted, are mine. 

'3 (Berni’s Works rushed to serve in the kitchen, leading along Fidenzio’s Cantici; they 
called in Dolce’s Ulysses as well, so that he could see to the cellar.) 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 91 


production of Italian poetry and prose. The gala’s guest of honor, Annibale Caro’s 
Canzone (“Venite all’ombra de’ gran gigli d’oro”) is a thoroughly orthodox 
Bembist poetic exercise, perhaps chosen by Croce because is success among poets 
of the academies stood in parallel relation to its banality.'* Sannazzaro’s great 
Arcadia, revised and Tuscanized for its second edition (1504), received high marks 
for its linguistic conformity and maintained its popularity through frequent 
reprintings over the next two centuries. Finally, the Neapolitan Laura Terracina, 
though virtually unknown today, was one of the most intensely published female 
Petrarchists of the latter sixteenth century (Shemek, Ch. 4). Guest texts like 
Minturno’s Poetica, Landino’s commentary on the Divine Comedy (as well as 
Dante’s poem itself), Trissino’s tragedy Sofonisba and Guarini’s pastoral drama the 
Pastor fido, Boiardo’s Orlando innamorato, plays by Plautus and Terence, 
scientific writings such as Faloppio’s anatomical studies, and various works of 
historiography — all attest in the Convito to Italy’s active creation over the course 
of the Cinquecento of a “primary” literature (with classical antecedents) to 
demonstrate its national cultural identity. Croce’s perception of which texts were 
“in” and which were “out” may surprise us today: some of the works he presents as 
privileged are now nearly forgotten, some of them have since been relegated to the 
historical literature of other fields, many are secondary texts of criticism, and some 
of them, though literary in the current understanding of this term, were not 
uncontested members of the canon even in Croce’s day. This lack of coincidence, 
however, highlights Croce’s place outside the official discussion of canon formation 
as well as the shifting shape of a canon too often perceived as unchanging. The 
many genres included in Croce’s array of privileged writings suggest, moreover, the 
narrowing of the conception of “literature” over the centuries spanning from 
Croce’s day to our own. 

What characterizes many of Croce’s servant texts is their irreverent humor and, 
as we Shall see further on, Croce appears to view comedy as particularly unwelcome 
in the context from which he writes. Although Francesco Berni (circa 1497-1535) 
wrote a Tuscan rifacimento of Boiardo’s masterpiece, Orlando innamorato (1541), 
he is perhaps better known even today for his comic writings, published 
posthumously in his Opere burlesche (I, 1548; II, 1555) which Croce depicts as 
servants. So recognized is Berni for these works that the burlesque mode came to 
be known among the following generation of his imitators as “bernesco,” an 
adjective that still survives today. Camillo Scroffa’s (pseud. Findentio) Cantici (c. 
1562) mock the pedantic and classicizing language of grammarian Pietro Fidenzio 


'4 The canzone pays tribute to the French monarchy and exalts Counter-Reformation values. 

Pesenti aptly describes the piece as “una maldestra canzone encomiastica.” It provoked a 
controversy between Caro and Castelvetro, whose intervention in turn spawned an Apologia 
“elefantica” (Pesenti’s adjective) by Caro in defense of his own writing. See Pesenti’s essay 
on Caro in the Dizionario biografico degli italiani. 


92 Deanna Shemek 


Giunteo da Montagnana." As this juxtaposition suggests, the Convito is not only 
a parody of the literary banquets of academic tradition (from Plato’s Symposium, 
to Dante’s Convivio and numerous later humanist dialogues); it is also Croce’s 
barbed joke about the relative value accorded to different kinds of literary 
production in Italy’s first century of print culture. At issue for Croce is the 
publishing industry’s continued preference for works of “learned literature” 
(“letteratura dotta”) in the Tuscan vernacular (or in the case of certain presses, in 
Latin) and the enormous obstacle this market presented to authors writing in dialects 
and in the many irregular genres tied to the oral tradition.'® 

For his part, Croce insists somewhat disingenuously that he has never strolled 
in colloquy with Petrarch, never walked the Tuscan trails of Boccaccio: in an era 
teeming with grammarians and bent on standardization, he joins the ranks of the 
unreformed and persists, as did to different degrees Aretino, Ruzante, and others, 
in a literature that orients both linguistically and thematically toward a popular, 
regional, unrefined audience.'’ Thus although Croce is most often remembered in 
literary histories for his only successful book, the pair of comic dialogues featuring 
the clever peasant hero Bertoldo (1606) and his foolish son Bertoldino (1608),'® 
more representative of his interests and activity are the four hundred or so titles he 
produced as pamphlets (many of them in dialect) for an only moderately educated 
urban audience (Rouch 18). 


'S The reference to Dolce’s Ulisse (1573) regards his postumously published vernacular 
poem in octaves derived from Homer’s Odyssey. Dolce had authored an often reprinted 
Apologia in which he defended Ariosto’s Orlando Furioso from charges that it was 
unworthy for inclusion in the national tradition of Italian literature. Many of Dolce’s own 
poetic works are popularizing translations or reworkings of classical texts, including a 
pastiche of Vergil’s two epics, his Achille e Enea, also in octaves (1572). My thanks to 
Sherry Roush for her assistance in tracking down the Ulisse in Yale’s Beinecke Library. 

'© For the rather different but also analogous and illuminating conditions governing the 
pamphlet culture of England at this time, see Watt. 

'7 Croce’s ability to parody the authorized literary tradition suggests at least some exposure 
to these works. See his autobiography, Descrizzione della vita del Croce, where he recounts 
his discovery of Ovid. Modern editions of this work include that of Rouch, Storia di vita 
popolare (24-66). I cite from that of Vecchi. 

'8 Te sottilissime astuzie di Bertoldo . . . (1606) has been lost. The 1608 second edition with 
a slightly revised title, Le sottilissime astuzie di Bertoldo. Nuovamente riviste et ristampate 
con il suo Testamento nell’ultimo, et altri detti sententiosi, che nel primo non erano 
(Bologna) was followed by a sequel, Le piacevoli et ridicolose semplicita di Bertoldino. 
Figliuolo del gia astuto et accorto Bertoldo. Con le sottili et argute sentenze della Marcolfa 
sua madre, et moglie del gia detto Bertoldo. Opera tanto piena di moralita, quanto di 
spasso (Bologna, 1608). Modern editions include two edited by Piero Camporesi (Torino: 
Einaudi, 1978 and Milano: Garzanti, 1993); one by Giampaolo Dossena for “I classici della 
BUR” (1985); and one by Nico Orengo for Mondadori’s “Classici” in the “Oscar” series 
(1985). 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 93 


In a verse autobiography he published in the wake of Bertoldo’s success, Croce 
locates his authorial persona in the context of a single city and outside the arena of 
privileged culture. The Descrizzione della vita di Giulio Cesare Croce, Bolognese 
addresses an “unknown illustrious cavalier” who seeks to know more about Croce 
before yielding to a curiosity to meet him. Croce recounts a life of hardship, 
beginning with the necessary abandonment of his schooling at age seven upon the 
death of his blacksmith father. In miserable poverty, the boy Giulio went to live 
with an uncle (also a blacksmith) who, perceiving his nephew’s gifts for learning, 
arranged lessons for him with “un valentissimo Pedante.” This man turned out, after 
all, to be only someone looking for children to exploit as laborers in his stables and 
garden. In a parody of the wide-ranging curriculum advocated by the most famous 
humanist educators, Croce describes his instruction in the school of hard knocks. 
The vague circulation of sexual innuendo in this passage may be Croce’s 
commentary as well on the pederastic pedagogies attributed by rumor to many 
humanists. This tutor: 


[I]n vece d’insegnare 

ai discepoli suoi Vergilio e Dante, 

in man la striglia ci facea pigliare, 

€ con essa su’! dosso a un suo ronzone 
un madrigale ci facea sonare. 


E chi ben non toccava su’! groppone, 
sminuendo su e git! minutamente, 
avea una ricercata di bastone. 


E perché ogn’un di noi fosse eccellente, 
e in ogni profession fondato a pieno, 
l’agricoltura ancor ci diede a mente, 
co’l farci spesso un’orticello ameno 
zappar, or dentro la gran madre antica 
gittar il seme, e fin segare il fieno. 
(59-72) '° 


Croce’s well-meaning uncle discovers this unacceptable situation and takes the 
boy back home, but only to work again as an apprentice smith (“m’andavo nel 
gimnasio di Vulcano”; “and so I went off to Vulcan’s highschool” 104). When this 


'9 (Instead of teaching his disciples about Virgil and Dante, he made us take up the 
currycomb and play madrigals with that on the backside of one of his stallions. And whoever 
didn’t stroke the rump well, playing delicate diminuendos back and forth, got a little tuning 
from the cudgel. And that each of us might excel, and acquire a thorough grounding in every 
profession, he also turned our minds to Agriculture. He would set us to hoe a pleasant 
garden, cast seeds into our great ancient mother, and finely mow the hay.) 


94 Deanna Shemek 


adoptive family moves, they take Giulio with them to work on the lands of a 
wealthy family, where he begins to recite and sing for his new masters. His 
employers feed him well for these performances, and by listening to them talk he 
learns “all of their sciences.”” When he can’t be at the manor and must work the 
fields, however, Croce suffers a familiar boredom: 


Cosi stei da cinque anni in quei confini, 
mentre fui giovanetto, ad abitare, 
e zolle e glebe furo i miei latini. 
(130-32) *° 


In the home of his next employer, a Bolognese blacksmith, Croce discovers 
both a kindred spirit and a tattered edition of Ovid’s Metamorphoses. This book 
captures his imagination, and the encounter of boy and book kindles the spark of a 
poetic career. Croce was never able to make a real living from poetry, but he 
confesses in closure that writing remains his lifelong fancy (“il [suo] grillo”). 

However artful Croce’s autobiography may be in its composition, however 
self-conscious the construction of his persona, the general lines of his narrative 
appear to be reliable. His lack of extensive familiarity with the classics of Latin, 
Greek, and vernacular literature, together with his aversion to the writing emanating 
from the academies, rendered Croce’s few attempts at commissioned works forced 
and awkward. One sees in many of his writings Croce’s evident exposure to what 
were considered the great books of his time. But this, he woefully attests, was not 
enough to make a successful poet of a blacksmith, no matter how marked his talent 
nor how wide his prospective audience. On the contrary, given the program of the 
canonizing theorists and their ties to the print industry, Croce’s extensive, 
linguistically unreformed audience was a liability.’ He failed utterly to cultivate 
sufficient sponsorship to support his career and thus alternated throughout his life 
between writing and the time-consuming labors of the trade that enabled him to put 
food on the table at home. Around 1571 he finally abandoned smithing and made 
a meager living singing and strumming his lyre in Bologna’s piazze, selling crude 
printings of his pamphlets as he strolled and sang. In this period he became known 
to many Bolognesi as Giulio Cesare della Lira.” 

The pamphlet writings in which Croce excelled address in burlesque fashion 
such enduring folk themes as hunger, poverty, life in the city, festival and chronicle 


*° (And so I lived five years in those confines as a youngster; and serfs and earth clods were 
my Latins there.) 

*! I discuss the analogous case of objections to vernacular romance by classicizing 
canonizers, who saw that genre as too popular for inclusion in a national literary tradition, 
in chapter three of my Ladies Errant. 

*2 Strappini 215. The Convito is itself dedicated to Cardinal Radivil who, Croce recalls in 
the work’s preface, did not shun listening to Croce’s “rozzi, e bassi versi” in the street, but 
on the contrary expressed appreciation for them. 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 95 


events, misogyny, and the absurd ways of the rich . Among them we find such titles 
as “Canzone nova in lode de sughi” (“New Song in Praise of Sauces”); 
“L’eccellenza e trionfo del porco” (“The Excellence and Triumph of the Pig”); 
“Invito generale con l’ordine ch’an[nJo da tenere i curiosi, per veder segar la 
vecchia” (“General invitation, along with rules of order for the curious in coming 
to see the quartering of an old woman”); “La vera regola per mantenersi magro con 
pochissima spesa (“The True Method for Staying Thin at Minimal Expense’’); 
“Grandezza della poverta. Opera morale” (“The Grandeur of Poverty. A Work on 
Morals”); and “Lettera Portata da Gianicchio, Ambasciatore Del Freddo. A tutti i 
Poverelli, che sono mal vestiti, e peggio calzati. E che sono sforniti d’ogni cosa. 
Opera ridicolosa” (“Letter from the Cold, Delivered by Gianicchio his Ambassador 
to All the Poor, Who are Badly Dressed and Shod Even Worse, and Entirely 
Without Any Provisions. A Ridiculous Composition”). It is against this backdrop 
of Croce’s career and the broader scene of Italy’s sixteenth-century culture quarrels 
that the Convito’s satire appears most meaningful. 

As word of the Aso/ani’s invitation spreads far and wide among the elite works 
of Italian literature, the first to arrive are an army of standard grammars: 


E pria con un Squadrone 

De cujus generis, e de i Dativi 

La Grammatica giunse in questi rivi, 

E co i Nominativi 

Venner le Concordanze tuttavia 
Accompagnate dal Quare, e dal Quia. ” 


With grammar properly in place and supported by the Rhetoric that arrives 
next, authorized works of poetry, history, architecture, agriculture, drama, 
geography, medicine, manners, and literary theory arrive without delay: 


In mezzo d’un gran Bosco alto, & ombroso 
Fu preparato il pasto sontuoso; 

E qui con gratioso 

Ordine fur raccolti tutti quanti 

Con feste, con trionfi, e suoni, e canti. 

Cosi lesti, e galanti 

A tavola si furon rassettati 

Secondo i gradi, e luochi preparati.” 


24 (And first with a squadron of cuius generis and of Datives, Grammar reached these shores; 
and with the Nominatives came Agreements, accompanied by Quare and by Quia.) 

5 (Amid a grand, high, and shady wood the sumptuous meal was readied. And there in 
gracious order was everyone assembled in celebrations, triumphs, music and songs. Swiftly 
and gallantly they settled themselves, according to rank and appointed place.) 


96 Deanna Shemek 


Rushing to bring the first course to table are the immensely popular vernacular 
romances, many of them derived from Spanish cycles and/or without identified 
authors: Buovo D’Antona serves as waiter; Palmerin d’Oliva wields the carving 
knife; Antifor di Barosia tends to the silver; Drusian dal Leon pours beverages and 
Liombrun opens bottles, while Piovano Arlotto oversees as head waiter and the 
Dama di Rovenza washes dishes.”” Underling as these popular favorites are, 
however, they are not the least fortunate to be present at the banquet. Croce’s final 
turn of the screw further literalizes the occasion of the Convito, when some texts 
turn up as neither guests nor servants, but as items on the menu. 

These include several bearing titles conveniently recalling names of foods: 
among them Michele “Tifi’” Odasi’s Macharonea and Francesco Doni’s Zucca 
(pumpkin). In a Disneyesque image avant la lettre, there follows a soup of Spanish 
books (una minestra di libri Spagnoli) and finally “a most flavorful dish” of 
assorted comedies. This list of over sixty plays features classicizing as well as more 
regional comedies and satiric plays from the academies. Croce seems here to 
abandon his argument regarding the canon as he yields to the pure pleasures of the 
list; or perhaps he aims to signal the vulnerability of entertainment literature as such 
to the gluttonous canon’s devourment of disenfranchised forms. 

The last section of the poem reverts to Croce’s more critical mode, as all the 
well-fed guests move from the dinner table into the garden. There they chat amiably 
over how fitting it was for the Asolani to give such a fine feast for Caro’s Canzone. 
They turn to punning on Caro’s name, agreeing that everyone everywhere — whether 
merchant, citizen, or artisan — knows this song well: 


Perché ogni cosa é caro, 

Caro il pan, caro il vin, cara la legna, 
Caro il vestire, e cid, che l"huom dissegna. 
E in ogni parte regna... 

E sol dai poveretti 

Viene odiata, perché tuttavia 

Vedono esser per lor la carestia.”° 


Croce’s invocation of hunger and poverty in the final lines of the Convito shifts 
the poem out of its relation to the rarefied and learned genre it parodies, and carries 
it back to the even more enduring tradition of popular songs about eating. As Piero 
Camporesi notes (Maschere), the poor have amassed an enormous legacy of songs 
and poems about hunger and food, a theme that not only runs through all of Croce’s 
works but surfaces in the elite literary tradition as well: Cervantes’s Sancho Panza, 


*° On the continued publication of romances in Italy between 1470 and 1600, see the useful 
tables in Appendix II of Beer. 

77 (Because everything is expensive (caro); caro is bread, and caro is wine, caro is wood, 
and caro are clothes, and so is everything man devises. And Caro’s song reigns everywhere 
... And only the poor despise it, because they see that famine is, in any case, their lot.) 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 97 


whose name points to his greatest concern, is perhaps the most memorable 
personification of this legacy. The Convito’s final lines thus abandon the genre’s 
pretenses of intellectual nourishment and confront the material hardships that keep 
most of Croce’s audience too famished to care for such repasts as this one. 

The Libraria. Convito universale is also a sequel of sorts, to an earlier work by 
Croce entitled simply Libraria universale.”’ Described by Marina Beer as a 
“precious slice of the popular literature from Italy’s late sixteenth century,” that text 
presents a minstrel’s library of books, pamphlets, joke collections, and songs.”* The 
items Croce catalogues in his universal bookshelf appear variously adorned with 
such elite meta-textual features as commentaries, illuminations, and indices. But the 
erudite commentators turn out to be romance characters, the illustrations are done 
in mustard, the bindings are made of waste paper. In Beer’s view, Croce’s library 
signals — and satirizes — “the awareness even on the part of the ‘little tradition,’ of 
the ever more irreversible separation between the corpus of so-called popular texts 
and the world of high literature” (251 n.35). Just as noteworthy, however, and 
deserving of further study, is the evident dialogue between these purportedly 
separate traditions; for Croce’s jokes assume an audience that will recognize the 
objects of his satire. In the already distinct hierarchy reflected in the packaging of 
books for their eventual consumers, moreover, Croce observes their decreasing 
function as objects with use value and their increasing circulation as signs, as 
carriers of pure exchange value. As Franca Nardelli notes, the sumptuary aspects 
of books generally removed them away from the sphere of ordinary use: the more 
beautiful the book, the lower the probability that it would be read.”’ In the Convito, 
Croce carries this recognition of the commodity fetish into a new fantasy realm. In 
the magical animation of objects produced by the smoke and mirrors of capitalist 
production, cultural products acquire the uncanny agency to oppress each other. 

The Cinquecento’s many debates on Italy’s national language and culture had 
sought to counteract the peninsula’s political debilitation with strong cultural 
coherence. These discussions also reinforced strict oppositions between the dialects 
and a standard literary vernacular, between popular and learned intellectuals, and 


8 That text parodied Anton Francesco Doni’s Libraria (2 vols. 1550/1551), which had 
constituted the first attempt by an Italian to compile a bibliography of great books, ordered 
according to genre. That the second volume of Doni’s work devolved into a sort of joke, in 
which the author pretended to catalogue all the important manuscripts in Italy — but added 
some of his own invention here and there for good humor — may have inspired Croce to 
outplay Doni at his own game. See Beer (216-17). 

2° Beer takes the term “little tradition” from chapter 2 of Burke (216). On the packaging of 
popular books in early modern Italy, see Grendler. 

3° | refer to Nardelli’s paper and presentation at “Retracing the Letter: Material Aspects of 
Textuality in Pre- and Early Modern Europe,” a conference held in September 1993 at the 
University of California, Santa Cruz and sponsored by the group in Pre- and Early Modern 
Studies (PEMS). 


98 Deanna Shemek 


between cultural multiplicity and political unity. Croce’s two texts show such 
oppositions, in the one case, to result in marginalization and servitude (Convito) 
and, in the other, to encourage the grotesque cross-dressing of popular literature to 
help it “pass” for something it is not (Libraria). As products of high culture, early 
modern books carried the prestige of the education and privilege necessary for their 
production as well as for their consumption. Croce’s textualization of improvised 
songs and events of ordinary city life and his use of “non-literary” languages for 
works in print resist this special character of the book as repository of elite culture. 
He (and authors like him) also responded to canon culture by undermining that 
discreet boundedness of the book as authorial and editorial property: by reciting 
famous texts in public, by fracturing them into nonsensical cento compositions of 
their own, and by making them the subjects of parody for all to enjoy.’ As others 
have observed, however, it would be a mistake to make of the moderate Croce a 
rebel or a subversive cultural critic: the driving force of his Bertoldo/Bertoldino is 
the notion that kings should rule and peasants should be left to live their simple 
lives, free to speak their minds and unencumbered by the rich diet and the airy 
whims of rulers who find them clever.*' Similarly, Croce’s pamphlets on hunger 
never attack the inequities of class or accuse political authorities. Instead there runs 
consistently through his writings an argument for the dignity of those who toil, for 
the intelligence of the farmer and the worker, and for the value of the arts produced 
by and for a people, broadly conceived. 

Croce’s career as a whole and the Libraria and the Convito in particular recall 
a rich Italian context of competing cultural models in the early centuries of print. 
They also suggest ways to extend Antonio Gramsci’s investigation of Italy’s historic 
lack of a genuinely popular national literary culture. Gramsci’s notebook entries on 
“literature and national life” and on the absence of a truly popular literature among 
Italians of his day (who read popular French literature — in translation — as an 
alternative) might be fruitfully explored vis-a-vis Croce’s moment and the 
solidification of what Gramsci termed the “double strain” (doppio filone) of 
Quattro- and Cinquecento literature: one “truly national-popular (in dialects, but 
also in Latin) . . . and the other academic, courtly, a-national.”’” Gramsci’s 


3! Croce’s favorite text to raid and scramble was Ariosto’s Orlando Furioso (1532). His 
Ricercata gentilissima delle bellezze del Furioso (1607) bears a title similar to a number of 
critical works written on Ariosto’s poem. What the Ricercata delivers, however, is a cento 
composition made up of first lines from Furioso octaves and resulting in a dizzying, 
nonsensical sequence of verses. Croce also composed dialect works translating parts of the 
Furioso, as well as several parodies of that poem. 

32 See the opening chapter of Camporesi (1976) and the first chapter of Marini. 

33 While the (Einaudi) critical edition of Gramsci’s notebooks maintains the integrity of the 
notebooks themselves, the thematic edition (Riuniti, 1977) collects his observations on 
specific topics and groups them together; specifically, Letteratura e vita nazionale contains 
Gramsci’s notebook entries on popular literature. I cite from his entry on “il Cinquecento” 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 99 


connection of the standardizing academic and courtly literatures of the sixteenth 
century to a-national rather than nationalizing effects brushes against the grain of 
both the declared intentions of early standardizers and the judgement of historical 
commentators, who generally present the formation of the canon as a positive step 
toward a national Italian culture. Gramsci’s — and Croce’s — interests are national 
in a different sense; however: they seek a national-popular culture that is inclusive 
and reflective of a people. It is in the discernment of this tradition that Croce’s 
work, and his illumination of the early modern commodity culture of books, is most 
informative and interesting. Croce’s animation of books themselves as the 
participants in a “cannibalistic” dinner party presents these commodities as 
protagonists on a literary scene lacking both producers (or authors) and consumers 
(readers). In such a context, the canon indeed takes on a life of its own and the 
relations between books, authors, and readers resemble those described by Marx in 
the passage cited at my essay’s beginning. Amidst the canonizing campaign of the 
sixteenth century, ties among authors materialized increasingly through the “social 
relations” among books, for it was only by writing certain kinds of books that one 
earned the status of “author.” Croce’s inability or unwillingness to produce books 
that would “socialize” with the kind he placed at his Convito affected his relations 
with the community of producers in the most material of ways: it kept him away 
from their privileged banquet tables and required him to sing for his supper till the 
end of his days. 


University of California, Santa Cruz 


Works Cited 


Beer, Marina. Romanzi di cavalleria: Il Furioso e il romanzo italiano del primo 
Cinquecento. Roma: Bulzoni, 1987. 

Braudel, Fernand. The Structures of Everyday Life: The Limits of the Possible. Vol. 1 of 
Civilization and Capitalism, 15th-18th Century. Trans. Sian Reynolds. New York: 
Harper and Row, 1981. French original, 1979. 

Burke, Peter. Popular Culture in Early Modern Europe. Brookfield, VT: Gower, 1988. 

Camporesi, Piero. J balsami di Venere. Milano: Garzanti, 1989. 

. Bread of Dreams. Trans. David Gentilcore. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1989. 
. Le maschere di Bertoldo: G. C. Croce e la letteratura carnevalesca. Torino: 


(83). See in particular section 2: “Il carattere non nazionale-popolare della letteratura 
italiana” 67-124; and section 3 “Letteratura popolare” 125-71. These are most profitably 
read in conjunction with his broader discussion in Letteratura e vita nazionale and with the 
scattered notes Gramsci made on early modern cultural life. 


100 Deanna Shemek 


Einaudi, 1976. 

. Rustici e buffoni: Cultura popolare e cultura d’élite fra Medioevo ed eta moderna. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1991. 

Chartier, Roger. The Order of Books: Readers, Authors, and Libraries in Europe Between 
the Fourteenth and Eighteenth Centuries. Trans. Lydia Cochrane. Cambridge: Polity 
Press, 1994. 

Croce, Giulio Cesare. Autobiografia e altri capitoli. Ed. Giuseppe Vecchi. Bologna: 
Antiquaria Palmaverde, 1956. 

. Descrizzione della vita del Croce. Bologna: Bartolomeo Cocchi al pozzo rosso, 

1608. 

. La libraria. Convito universale dove s’invita grandissimo numero di libri, tanto 
antichi quanto moderni. Verona: Dionigi Ramanzini, 1738. 

. Le piacevoli et ridicolose semplicita di Bertoldino. Figliuolo del gia astuto et 
accorto Bertoldo. Con le sottili et argute sentenze della Marcolfa sua madre, et moglie 
del gia detto Bertoldo. Opera tanto piena di moralita, quanto di spasso. Bologna- 
Modena, 1608. 

. Le sottilissime astuzie di Bertoldo. Nuovamente riviste et ristampate con il suo 
Testamento nell’ultimo, et altri detti sententiosi, che nel primo non erano. Bologna: 
1608. 

. Ricercata gentilissima delle bellezze del Furioso. N.p., 1607. 

Davis, Natalie Zemon. Society and Culture in Early Modern France. Stanford: Stanford UP, 
1975. 

De Mauro, Tullio. “Linguistic Variety and Linguistic Minorities.” /talian Cultural Studies: 
An Introduction. Eds. David Forgacs and Robert Lumley. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1996. 
88-101. 

Dizionario biografico degli italiani. Roma: Societa grafica romana, 1985. 

During, Simon. The Cultural Studies Reader. London: Routledge, 1993. 

Dursi, Massimo, ed. Affanni e canzoni del padre di Bertoldo: La poesia popolare di Giulio 
Cesare Croce. Bologna: Alpha, 1966. 

Elias, Norbert. The Civilizing Process. 3 Vols. New York: Pantheon, 1982-83. German 
original, 1939. 

. “The Retreat of Sociologists into the Present” The Norbert Elias Reader. Ed. Johan 
Goudsblom and Stephen Mennell. Oxford: Blackwell, 1998. 175-85. 

Findlen, Paula. Possessing Nature: Museums, Collecting, and Scientific Culture in Early 
Modern Italy. Berkeley: U of California P, 1994. 

Forgacs, David, and Robert Lumley. /talian Cultural Studies: An Inroduction. Oxford: 
Oxford UP, 1996. 

Fradenberg, Louise, and Carla Freccero. Premodern Sexualities. New York: Routledge, 
1996. 

Frow, John. Cultural Studies and Cultural Value. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1995. 

Ginzburg, Carlo. The Cheese and the Worms: The Cosmos of a Sixteenth-Century Miller. 
Trans. John and Anne Tedeschi. Italian original, 1976. 

. Night Battles: Witchcraft and Agrarian Cults in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth 
Centuries. Trans. John and Anne Tedeschi. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1983. Italian 
original, 1966. 

Gramsci, Antonio. Quaderni del carcere. Ed. Valentino Gerratana. Torino: Einaudi, 1977. 


Books at Banquet: G. C. Croce’s Convito Universale 101 


. Letteratura e vita nazionale. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1977. 
Greenblatt, Stephen. “Towards a Poetics of Culture.” The New Historicism.” Ed. Aram H. 
Veeser. New York: Routledge, 1989. 1-14. 
Grendler, Paul F. “Form and Function in Italian Renaissance Popular Books.” Renaissance 
Quarterly 46.3 (1993): 451-85. 
Grossberg, Lawrence. Bringing It All Back Home: Essays in Cultural Studies. Durham: 
Duke: UP, 1997. 
Grossberg, Lawrence, Cary Nelson and Paula A. Treichler, eds. Cultural Studies. New York: 
Routledge, 1992. 
Hendricks, Margo, and Patricia Parker, eds. Women, ‘Race’ and Writing in the Early 
Modern Period. New York: Routledge, 1994. 
Jameson, Fredric. “On ‘Cultural Studies.’” Social Text 34 (1993): 17-52. 
Javitch, Daniel. Proclaiming a Classic: The Canonization of Orlando Furioso. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1991. 
Marini, Quinto. Bertoldo Bertoldino Marcolfo. Casale Monferrato: Marietti, 1986. 
Marx, Karl. Capital. Trans. Samuel Moore and Edward Aveling. Ed. Frederick Engels. 
London: Lawrence and Wishart, 1954. 
Mazzacurati, Giancarlo. I/ rinascimento dei moderni: La crisi culturale del XVI secolo e la 
negazione delle origini. Bologna: I] mulino, 1985. 
Montrose, Louis. “Professing the Renaissance: the Poetics and Politics of Culture.” The New 
Historicism. Ed. Aram H. Veeser. New York: Routledge, 1989. 15-36. 
Nardelli, Franca Petrucci. [Unpublished essay]. 
Niccoli, Ottavia. Prophecy and People. Trans. Lydia Cochrane. Princeton: UP, 1990. 
Parlangéli, Oronzo. La nuova questione della lingua. Brescia: Paideia, 1971. 
Pesenti, F.R. “Caro, Annibale.” Dizionario biografico degli italiani. 
Rouch, Monique, ed. Storia di vita popolare nelle canzoni di piazza di G .C. Croce: fame 
fatica e mascherate nel 500. Bologna: Editrice CLUB, 1982. 
Shemek, Deanna. Ladies Errant: Wayward Women and Social Order in Early Modern Italy. 
Durham: Duke UP, 1998. 
Stallybrass, Peter, and Allon White. The Politics and Poetics of Transgression. London: 
Methuen, 1986. 
Strappini, L. “Croce, G.C.” Dizionario biografico degli italiani. 
Trexler, Richard. Dependence in Context in Renaissance Florence. Binghamton: MRTS, 
1994. 
Veeser, Aram H., ed. The New Historicism. New York: Routledge, 1989. 
Watt, Tessa. Cheap Print and Popular Piety, 1550-1640. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1991. 
Williams, Raymond. Culture and Society: 1780-1950. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1958. 
. Keywords. London: Fontana, 1983. 
. The Politics of Modernism: Against the New Conformists. London: Verso, 1989. 


"sa = *..8 G _—-—, 
se ee OS 


; ao 
+ @ ~~? aw ow 


en ee i=. 
= 
too) 68 oem ee 
oe > e 

= Sei 
— = ae 

ae o « «8 32 ae! 

a er ee 

a BS LF SD cmt 
(oe eee 

Oo - ....©@8©¢C06—6h 3S 6 ot Ge 

> re ot 
=s -+ ss = ——=—5§ = oe 


7 OS ee 
7 = 6 ee te ay 


oe - - #a «= * ow 4a 
7 Bn 
- - =) aes a Be 
7 f° —~2e we ww ttltae 
_ > «~ 2O@ -- ~-@io-—aw +o 
en 7 fe — — a oa” 
- edi) «ipa | 
- a > 80 8 ioe ae 
- ei 
ee oo a 
_ _ ~@ - ®© x» - a 
7 7 - ay 4 
ee «Pe me 
a _ =+s 55> om aw @&- 


; =) =e + a cee 
= == ==: 6- 8 e_ 


6s mw 





Daria Valentini 


Amore e ginnastica 


Uno dei fenomeni culturali pit curiosi, e forse meno noti, dell’ Italia risorgimentale 
fu l’entusiasmo per la ginnastica. Lo stimolo al rinnovamento che dal Piemonte 
guido l’unificazione politica nazionale operd.vistosi cambiamenti nel costume del 
secondo Ottocento. Nel corso di pochi anni Torino si trasformo nella capitale della 
“national fitness,” promuovendo dibattiti ed innovazioni che conferirono alla 
ginnastica uno sconosciuto prestigio. Acuto osservatore e cronista divertito 
dell’ Italia in palestra fu Edmondo De Amicis, ligure di nascita (Oneglia 1846) come 
Mazzini, ma formatosi letterariamente nell’atmosfera effervescente della Torino di 
fine secolo. 

Non deve sorprendere che De Amicis divenisse un fervente portavoce di 
un’innovazione culturale che si irradiava proprio dalla sua citta al resto d’ Italia. 
Suddito sabaudo dalla nascita, lo scrittore crebbe in una famiglia borghese che lo 
avvio alla carriera militare. Dopo essersi diplomato dall’ Accademia Militare di 
Modena, partecipo alla battaglia di Custoza ed alla presa di Roma nel 1870, 
maturando la convinzione che all’esercito ed all’istutuzione scolastica sarebbe 
spettato il compito di dar vita ad una nazione culturalmente unificata e coesa. 
Troppo spesso il nome di De Amicis é stato associato (e liquidato) con la letteratura 
edificante e per l’infanzia, che tuttavia rappresenta solo un aspetto della sua vasta 
produzione letteraria. Nonostante il negativo giudizio della critica, da Benedetto 
Croce! a Carducci,” da Borgese’ a Torraca,* i romanzi di De Amicis (editi dal 


' “Artista nei particolari, il De Amicis é un moralista nel disegno e nell’ispirazione. E come 
la sua arte non é profonda e indipendente, cosi anche il suo pensiero non esce dall’ovvio, dal 
comune, dal facilmente accettabile, anzi dall’accettato. Le idee egli le trova nell’ambiente: 
sono le idee dei benpensanti, la morale sana, ma della vita spicciola, che si presenta come 
assioma e non come problema” (Croce 166-70). 

* In un graffiante articolo, pubblicato dapprima su Preludio e quindi sul Popolo di Genova, 
Carducci scriveva a proposito dei libri di viaggio di De Amicis: “Due razze al mondo di 
uomini bisogna odiarle ancora; e sono i parrucchieri in poesia e i descrittori in prosa’” (Gigli 
* Torraca vide il limite maggiore di De Amicis nella descrizione gratuita ed eccessiva: 
258-59). 

> Borgese criticd in particolar modo “la sentimentale e acquosa prolissita” di De Amicis 
(Borgese 57-63). 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


104 Daria Valentini 


prestigioso autore Treves) ottenevano una tiratura record in un’Italia in gran parte 
analfabeta. 

Affrontando la questione dei modelli letterari dello scrittore, Antonio Baldini 
contrappose la tranquilla pacatezza dello stile manzoniano con la Torino 
deamicisiana, dipinta alla rinfusa tra un “borbottio di chiacchiere,” “sbattimenti di 
porte,” “urla” e “fanfare” (Baldini 93-4). Pur tra le righe di una prosa “col fiatone,” 
sovrabbondante di dettagli disordinati, De Amicis si fa testimone di una realta 
sociale ricca di fermenti e di novita che difficilmente avrebbe potuto riflettersi nel 
contenuto equilibrio dell’illustre predecessore lombardo o nella storiografia 
ufficiale. Sorta in un contesto di grandi innovazioni sociali e culturali, l’opera di De 
Amicis offre al lettore moderno un ricco ed estemporaneo tranche de vie dell’Italia 
post-risorgimentale nella sua complessa strutturazione: |’esercito (La vita militare); 
gli emigranti (Su/l’oceano) e il proletariato urbano (La carrozza di tutti, Primo 
maggio); la scuola e la ginnastica (Cuore; Romanzo di un maestro; Fra casa e 
scuola; Ricordi d’infanzia e di scuola). 

I dati raccolti dall’analisi testuale rivelano un continuo processo di osmosi tra 
finzione letteraria e cultura. De Amicis documenta non solo un singolare fenomeno 
di costume, ma percorre altresi la storia della ginnastica femminile in Italia 
proponendola con il brio e |’ immediatezza della cronaca giornalistica. Nella 
trattazione dell’argomento si evidenzieranno tre direttive distinte e complementari: 
1) i pregiudizi che la ginnastica incontro nella cultura dell’epoca per la sua natura 
trasgressiva nei confronti del ruolo tradizionale della donna; 2) la nascente classe 
magistrale ed il dibattito relativo all’introduzione della ginnastica nella scuola; 3) 
la percezione della ginnastica femminile come spettacolo e come inquietante 
veicolo d’emancipazione. 


1. Il moralismo di De Amicis non intacca le pagine dedicate alla ginnastica, che mai 
soccombono alla pedanteria, rivelando al contrario |’insospettabile verve umoristica 
dello scrittore. La nascita della ginnastica ebbe un notevole impatto sul costume 
della capitale sabauda nella seconda meta dell’Ottocento. Su iniziativa di Rudolf 
Obermann, un istruttore svizzero incaricato di addestrare gli ufficiali reali, Torino 
divenne “culla della ginnastica.”° Nacquero la “Societa Ginnastica di Torino” e la 
Palestra di Torino (1844), tra i cui benemeriti fondatori il De Amicis 
scherzosamente annovera uno dei personaggi di Amore e ginnastica, il 
Commendator Celzani. Tra gli iscritti figura invece suo nipote, il segretario Celzani, 
che fequenta la palestra di Torino per amore della maestra Pedani, sacrificando il 





“invece di una rappresentazione quasi sempre si ha un’enumerazione, una serie di 
particolari, pil. o meno interessanti” (Torraca 92-106). 

* L’atletica maestra Pedani compare non solo in Amore e ginnastica, ma anche ne Il romanzo 
di un maestro. Quando il maestro Ratti si reca a Torino per il concorso, incontrandola per 
caso, l’apostrofa scherzosamente: “‘anche lei concorre a un posto a Torino non per altro che 
per venir a stare nella culla della ginnastica’” (ll romanzo di un maestro 443). 


Amore e ginnastica 105 


suo goffo fisico da seminarista sull’altare della trave di equilibrio. 

Nell’opera di De Amicis la ginnastica accalora le membra, infiamma gli animi, 
ed accende emozioni ben diverse da quelle che ispira la lettura di Cuore (1886). 
Amore e ginnastica é infatti |’opera in cui pili si awverte l’originalita di De Amicis 
e la sua schietta trasgressione da ogni preconcetto moralistico.° Di piacevole e 
divertente lettura, il racconto, edito dapprima in quattro puntate sulla rivista Nuova 
Antologia nel 1890 e poi incluso nella raccolta Tra scuola e casa (135-275), 
piacque a Calvino che lo giudicd come la migliore espressione artistica di De 
Amicis e lo pubblico nella collana Centopagine da lui diretta presso Einaudi (1971) 
con una nota critica introduttiva. Ideologia e passione si intrecciano e Si 
compenetrano nel testo come “un campo di forze contrastanti tra gli slanci ideali 
delle missioni civili e i grovigli morbosi del segreto degli individui” (Amore e 
ginnastica III). Manubri e torsioni del busto, che il lettore intravede appena tra i 
sospiri di un appassionato corteggiamento, attirano lo sguardo sulla donna e sul suo 
corpo. Niente sembra pit! conturbante al De Amicis di un passo ritmico eseguito da 
un piedino femminile, nessuna donna pit seducente di una maestra di ginnastica. 

La scelta deamicisiana di porre la cultura del corpo tra le righe di un 
contrastato amore rivela una concezione della ginnastica che esula dai puri fini 
utilitaristici dell’addestramento militare e s’inserisce nella disputa tra obermannisti 
e baumannisti. ’ Lo scisma verificatosi tra i sostenitori della scuola di Obermann a 
Torino e quella fondata successivamente da Emilio Baumann a Bologna’ si riflette 
nel microcosmo del palazzo torinese di Amore e ginnastica, che ospita obermannisti 
(l’ingegner Ginoni, la maestra Zibelli) al fianco della pit ardente baumannista, la 
maestra Pedani. Obermann aveva distinto la ginnastica femminile da quella 
maschile qualitativamente, limitandola agli esercizi pi elementari ed escudendo 
uso degli atrezzi (Teja 10). Come seguace del Baumann, la maestra Pedani é€ 
convinta invece che la differenza sia solo quantitativa e si prodiga per la diffusione 


° Amore e ginnastica fu parte di un dibattito sulla ginnastica condotto dalla rivista Nuova 
Antologia (1890-91), al quale parteciparono Ludovico Cisotti, Angelo Mosso e Paulo 
Fambri. De Amicis fu anche autore di un intervento pubblico sul valore educativo della 
ginnastica (1891) dal titolo Non si sgomentino le signore . . . pubblicato nel saggio di Boero 
(21-57). 

7 Scrive a questo proposito Brambilla: “Con Amore e ginnastica De Amicis tendeva invece 
a smorzare i toni della diatriba rivalutando, da un lato il valore ed il fascino del corpo in se 
stesso (che implicava una concezione moderna dell’educazione fisica); e dall’altro, 
attraverso la figura del Celzani, metteva davvero in ridicolo la funzione bellica della 
ginnastica, contrapponendo alle fatiche di Marte i piaceri di Venere. . .” (115). 

8 Emilio Baumann, allievo di Obermann, costitui la Federazione Ginnastica “Virtus” di 
Bologna nel 1869. Baumann fu autore di numerosi saggi tra i quali: Manuale di ginnastica 
ad uso dei maestri elementari (Bologna, 1866), La ginnastica nei suoi rapporti con la 
medicina e con I’igiene (Genova, 1870); L’educazione fisica nelle scuole elementari 
(Genova, 1873) (Ferrara 87-97). 


106 Daria Valentini 


di una ginnastica curativa,’ che migliori il portamento della donna: “Alla prima 
occhiata riconosceva se una ragazza avesse attitudine o no alla ginnastica, 
esaminava i corpi mal formati, cercava le spalle asimmetriche, i petti gibbosi, gli 
addomi prolassati, le ginocchia torte e studiava di correggere ciascun difetto con un 
ordine particolare d’esercizi” (Amore e ginnastica 15-16). La crociata della maestra 
Pedani aspira ad eliminare i pregiudizi radicati nella cultura del tempo contro la 
ginnastica femminile, che prenderemo ora in considerazione attraverso |’analisi del 
testo deamicisiano. 

Gli ostacoli contro i quali Obermann dovette combattere non furono pochi. Le 
apprensioni delle famiglie (e delle madri) che De Amicis realisticamente illustra 
nella sezione narrativa di Cuore intitolata “Alla ginnastica,”’° si acuirono quando 
la disciplina divenne obbligatoria per tutti gli allievi delle scuole statali, comprese 
le ragazze (1878). Benché le ginnaste vestissero uniformi accollatissime con 
gonnelloni quasi alla caviglia e maniche lunghe,'' anche gli esercizi che non 
implicavano movimenti eccessivi erano giudicati sconvenienti. Nel primo corso di 
ginnastica per la preparazione delle maestre di ginnastica gli attrezzi non erano 
usati. Lo stesso Baumann, pur sostenendo I’esistenza di una sola ginnastica, poneva 
un riserbo di natura morale sulla pratica indiscriminata dei movimenti.'* In Amore 
e ginnastica De Amicis riferisce i termini di un acceso dibattito sulla donna “in 
palestra:” da un lato si ode la voce del cittadino comune (“Dicono: le ragazze non 
debbono fare i movimenti che fanno i maschi’”) e dall’altro fa eco I’ obiezione della 
maestra Pedani che si batte per la parita tra i sessi (“Ma io rispondo: o quei 
movimenti sono igienici o non lo sono. . . . Le ragazze non hanno da far ginnastica 
che davanti alle loro maestre o alle loro madri’’) (Amore e ginnastica 85). 

L’isolamento quasi religioso in cui la ginnastica femminile prese avvio e le 
remore morali mosse alle prime allieve della disciplina emergono con nitidezza tra 
le righe della finzione letteraria. In un capitolo di // romanzo di un maestro, 


” Il rachitismo costitui un grave problema dopo I’unificazione. I fratelli Ravano di Genova 
si adoperarono per promuovere la ginnastica curativa contro il rachitismo. De Amicis é 
consapevole della vastita di questo problema, tanto che il capitolo dedicato a maggio in 
Cuore si apre con la visita di Enrico all’istituto dei ragazzi rachitici. 

'° La madre di Nelli, “il povero gobbino gracile e col viso smunto,” si reca dal direttore per 
far esonerare il figlio dall’ora di ginnastica. Il bambino, invece, insiste per partecipare ai 
giochi dei compagni sulla sbarra. Alla fine della lezione la madre che lo ha atteso inquieta 
gli va incontro, domandandogli: “Ebbene, povero figliuolo, com’é andata?” (Cuore 178). 
'' Si confrontino le illustrazioni della divisa usata dalle ginnaste alla fine dell’Ottocento 
(Ferrara 153 e Teja 12). 

'2 Baumann scrive a proposito: “Pero ci sono altre circostanze che impongono una certa 
diversita non tanto nella qualita o nel fine, quanto per riguardo alle convenienze sociali, le 
quali pretendono che i movimenti femminili rispettino scrupolosamente il suo decoro ed 
esprimano compostezza, grazia, riserbo ed una certa arrendevolezza lontana da ogni 
angolosita” (Teja 158-59). 


Amore e ginnastica 107 


significativamente intitolato “I martiri della ginnastica,” De Amicis osserva gli 
effetti della ginnastica secondo il sesso. Maestri e maestre, obbligati a frequentare 
un corso (“trenta giorni di purgatorio”) per mantenere |’abilitazione 
all’insegnamento elementare, o “la patente” come allora si chiamava, offrono uno 
spettacolo che il narratore, aspramente sarcastico verso |’ iniziativa ministeriale, non 
stenta a definire una “rappresentazione burattinesca.” Impediti dalla non giovane 
eta, i maestri espongono grottescamente gambe flosce e scarpe di panno, busti 
curvi, spalle cadenti, occhiali e calvizie. Trascinandosi goffi e ricalcitranti, come 
il protagonista maschile di Amore e ginnastica, alternano |’impaccio fisico a quella 
che pare una resistenza etica nei confronti di una pratica che ritengono poco 
dignitosa. I] maestro Calvi “dichiarato nemico della ginnastica ministeriale” ben 
rappresenta la categoria, eseguendo gli esercizi “con ostentato disprezzo, senza 
neppure levarsi il soprabito” (// romanzo di un maestro 357). Volgendo lo sguardo 
alle martiri della ginnastica, il lettore scorge invece pensieri e preoccupazioni di 
tutt’altra natura. 

Se ai maestri gli esercizi paiono ridicoli, il pensiero che assilla le donne in 
“palestra” é l’impudicizia. La sofferenza a cui sono sottoposte le allieve del corso 
é, dunque, non di ordine materiale ma morale. Lo scetticismo di molti sull’utilita o 
il beneficio della palestra era radicato nella cultura del tempo. Come ha osservato 
Angela Teja, la donna “viveva quasi sempre tra le mura domestiche, in ogni caso 
dedita ad occupazioni sedentarie; era inoltre molto diffusa la diffidenza nei 
confronti delle novita che la ginnastica femminile pretendeva di apportare: novita 
di stile di vita e di cultura cui spesso si attribuivano significati di spregiudicatezza, 
se non addirittura di immoralita” (Teja 10). La disinvoltura con cui l’agile e bella 
istruttrice della sezione femminile si esibisce alle parallele provoca sussurri e 
sdegno tra le maestre, scandalo tra le monache: 


Le due monache soltanto guardavano da un’altra parte, scandolizzate [sic], e la maestra 
Falbrizio, che in quindici giorni era gia entrata in relazione con tutte, e sapeva di tutte vita 
e miracoli, la biasimava con dolcezza materna, di crocchio in crocchio, dicendo che quella 
esposizione di calze bianche, per quanto fosse fatta innocentemente non istava bene, li a 
dieci passi dai maestri, che la sbirciavano; tanto pili che aveva il vestito un po’ troppo corto; 
che anzi essa aveva gia sentiti certi discorsi. 

(11 romanzo di un maestro 358-59) 


La trasgressione operata dalla ginnastica sull’immagine tradizionale del sesso 
“debole” coinvolge tutte le comunita femminili, laiche e religiose. De Amicis, da 
buon manzoniano, non resiste alla tentazione di includere il convento nello 
scompiglio creato dall’obbligo ministriale del De Sanctis.’* II bizzarro connubio tra 


'3 «ran monache claustrali, che tenevano un educandato, al quale essendo annesse le scuole 
comunali del paese, |’ispettore governativo aveva imposto la ginnastica obbligatoria anche 
a loro; il perché, dopo aver recalcitrato un pezzo, s’eran dovute rassegnare a far venire una 
maestra laica a prepararle agli esami di patente; col permesso del vescovo, ben inteso” (// 


108 Daria Valentini 


le monache e la ginnastica (// romanzo di un maestro) anticipa il tono umoristico 
e anticonvenzionale di Amore e ginnastica. De Amicis offre una rappresentazione 
molto pit positiva dell’educandato religioso che il Manzoni, trasformando il 
convento da gotico intrigo a sana e moderna palestra. Le monache non paiono 
calcolatrici, capricciose 0 vendicative, come nella triste storia di Gertrude, bensi 
parte di quel mondo femminile che procede solidale, in comunita, come le maestre 
alle riunioni: “Oh! che senso di pieta le avevan fatto tutte quelle ragazze in tonaca 
bianca, raggruppate in fondo a un corridoio, con quelle teste senza capelli, che 
parevan tanti giovinetti malati . . .” (// romanzo di un maestro 299). Ben accolta 
nella comunita é la volitiva maestra di ginnastica, la cugina del maestro Ratti, a cui 
é affidata |’educazione fisica delle suore. Con la sua indipendenza, i suoi modi 
bruschi e decisi, il personaggio rappresenta un abbozzo della Pedani in Amore e 
ginnastica. 

La presunta immodestia e l’immoralita dei movimenti, gia denunziata dalle 
maestre, provocano ancor piu scandalo tra le suore che sottopongono ogni esercizio 
al giudizio ed alla dispensa del confessore. La ginnastica minaccia la pace spirituale 
del convento con l’avvicinarsi dell’esame “non per la difficolta, ma perché doveva 
venire una commissione esaminatrice presieduta dal prowveditore della provincia, 
ed esse avrebbero dovuto fare in presenza di uomini, di laici, forse di giovani, 
quegli stessi esercizi che da principio avevan provato tanta ripugnanza a fare in 
presenza di una ragazza” (// romanzo di un maestro 299). Tremanti di paura, le 
monache si presentano davanti agli esaminatori, che, per l’appunto, esigono la 
dimostrazione dei fatidici passi ritmici, impazientendosi per la tonaca troppo lunga 
che impedisce i movimenti. La ginnastica attira lo sguardo ed il pensiero dello 
spettatore sul corpo femminile. “Sarebbe stato un incanto a vedere la grazia che 
dava in alcun modo quella vergogna, e com’erano belle, rosse a quel modo e 
tremanti, sotto il velo bianco,” osserva il narratore accomiatandosi dal convento (// 
romanzo di un maestro 300). L’ episodio introduce il tema dello sguardo maschile 
sulla donna che tanto contraddistingue all’atmosfera inquieta e sognante di Amore 
e ginnastica. 

Nessuno dei personaggi maschili di Amore e ginnastica resta indifferente al 
fascino dell’aspirante ginnasta. L’ingegner Ginoni, sempre scettico ed in disaccordo 
con la Pedani sulla ginnastica, esulta al pensiero del saggio delle Figlie dei Militari 
all’istituto di San Domenico. Descrivendo la perfetta esecuzione dei passi ritmici 
alla compiaciuta maestra, si esprime con termini forse poco tecnici, ma certo 
eloquenti: “tutte quelle braccia e quelle piccole mani per aria, quelle grosse trecce 
saltellanti sulle nuche rosee e sui torsi snelli, quei trecento piedi arcati e sottili, e la 
grazia indefinibile di quelle mosse cosi tra il ballo e il salto, con quelle vesti lunghe, 
che davan loro I’aspetto di un corpo di ballo pudibondo, era nuovo e seducente, 
senza dubbio” (Amore e ginnastica 31). Sono ancora i volteggi delle Figlie dei 
Militari che il Commendator Celzani, accanito nemico della “riservatezza di 


romanzo di un maestro 295). 


Amore e ginnastica 109 


movimenti” nella ginnastica femminile, contempla nel pensiero, “con gli occhi 
azzurri fissi alla v6lta, come immerso in una contemplazione celeste.”'* Nessuno 
sfugge al fascino della maestra di ginnastica: il collega Fassi che le attribuisce “il 
pit bel braccio di donna, se lo vedesse nudo, che si sia mai visto sotto il sole,” il 
giovane Ginoni che spinge le sue attenzioni per la Pedani al punto da scatenare lo 
sdegno del rivale e buffo segretario, e persino la maestra Zibelli con la quale la 
Pedani alloggia. 


2. Seguendo i destini personali delle sue creazioni letterarie per le oscure scale di 
un vecchio palazzo torinese (Amore e ginnastica), nella misera aula di una scuola 
serale di periferia (La maestrina degli operai), 0 tra i banchi dei paesini di 
provincia (// romanzo di un maestro), De Amicis ritrae la cultura del suo tempo e 
ci offre una significativa testimonianza sulla donna italiana dell’ Ottocento. Durante 
il Risorgimento la presenza femminile fu tutt’altro che secondaria. L’impegno delle 
scrittrici si manifesto su tutto il territorio nazionale, dalla lotta politica (Eleonora 
Pimentel Fonseca), al memorialismo (Maria Bonacci Brunamonti ed Elisabetta 
Caracciolo Fiorino), dal patriottismo (Concettina Coffa e Cleobolina Cotenna) al 
riformismo sociale (Cristina di Belgioioso).'* Nella Torino di fine secolo, tra la 
nobilta, si distinsero Giulia Falletti con un progetto di riforme carcerarie ed Olimpia 
Rossi Savio, fervente patriota e madre dei fratelli Savio.'® 

La prosa del De Amicis — Cuore, Tra casa e scuola, Il romanzo di un maestro 
e Ricordi d’infanzia e di scuola — testimonia un fenomeno di vaste proporzioni 
sociali. Con la legge Casati del 1859 veniva istituito nel Regno di Sardegna 
lobbligo scolastico di due anni, adottato a livello nazionale dopo l’unificazione ed 
esteso a quattro dalla legge Coppino del 1877.'’ Le riforme portarono, di 


'4 A questo proposito osserva Italo Calvino: “Rivelazioni come queste, su un canuto notabile 
torinese, e per giunta ex assessore supplente alla pubblica istruzione, ci s’aspetterebbe da un 
De Amicis che ce le comunicasse non solo con tono scandalizzato o moralista, ma almeno 
con |’aria di dire: belle cose ci tocca sentire! Macché, lo racconta come il pit pacifico 
fenomeno della natura” (Amore e ginnastica VIII). 

'S Si veda il saggio di Spinosa dedicato alle dodici eroine del Risorgimento italiano tre le 
quali compaiono Giulia Falletti; Cristina di Belgioioso; Teresa Confalonieri; Costanza 
Arconati; Giuditta Sidoli; Virginia Castiglione; Clara Maffei. 

'© Giulia Colbert Falletti di Barolo, figlia di una famiglia dell’alta aristocrazia francese 
(1785), sposd un nobile piemontese, Tancredi Falletti. A Torino si dedico alla riforma delle 
carceri femminili e fondd congregazioni per I’assisestenza dei poveri. Olimpia Rossi Savio, 
nobile piemontese nata a Torino (1815), fondo un salotto letterario, “Millerose,” dove si 
riunivano letterati ed uomini politici (Spinosa 11-25 e 219-34). 

'7 Al tempo dell’unificazione nazionale |’analfabetismo si presentd come uno dei problemi 
sociali pil gravi, soprattutto nelle aree rurali. Nel 1861 il senatore Linati presentd in 
parlamento i dati relativi al grado di alfabetizzazione di Reggio Emilia, nei quali risultava 
che solo un uomo su 160 andava a scuola. Ancor pit impressionante é la statistica relativa 
alle donne: solo una donna su 5230 imparava a leggere e scrivere (Picco e Banchetti). 


110 Daria Valentini 


conseguenza, alla formazione di un collegio docenti recrutato dallo stato, nel quale 
la componente femminile divenne significativa. Alla fine del secolo, nell’area 
torinese, le maestre costituivano 1’88% del corpo docente (De Giorgio 467). II 
direttore generale delle scuole municipali di Torino sottolinea “la delicatezza” ed 
il “tatto” necessario alla sua incresciosa posizione a capo di “una famiglia da 
duecento cinquanta a trecento fra signorine giovani e mature, maritate e vedove, 
provenienti da tutte le classi sociali, e con loro, un corpo di direttrici che... . 
sarebbe pil’ comodo aver da fare con le trenta principesse di casa Hohenzollern” 
(Amore e ginnastica 6). 

L’uomo borghese di fine secolo osserva con curiosita e sospetto, quasi con 
soggezione, questa comunita di donne con i loro “amori, malattie, matrimoni, lune 
di miele, esami, puerperi, rivalita, contrasti con superiori e parenti. . .” (Amore e 
ginnastica 6) e soprattutto con la loro indipendenza. La maestra, assunta dal 
municipio comunale con un salario di un terzo inferiore a quello di un collega 
maschio,'* era tuttavia una delle poche donne — spesso l’unica — a cui era concessa 
un’occupazione a livello professionale. I mestieri femminili pit diffusi a fine 
Ottocento erano la ricamatrice, la sartina e l’operaia nel settore tessile. Molte 
giovani vedevano nell’insegnamento, pur malretribuito, una via d’ascesa sociale. 
Proprio negli anni in cui De Amicis scriveva, una di queste maestre era Ada Negri, 
che dal 1888 insegnava a Pavia dopo aver ottenuto il diploma magistrale. La 
biografia della scrittrice, Ste/la Mattutina, ben illustra le aspirazioni delle donne 
italiane di fine secolo. Vittoria, la madre della protagonista, é “cucitrice di bianco” 
da sposata e “operaia in uno stabilimento di filatura” con la vedovanza. La nonna 
si occupa della portineria di un palazzo signorile. Con molti sacrifici di entrambe 
la protagonista arriva al primo impiego di maestra in un collegio femminile gestito 
da sole donne. Di fatto, la figura della maestra é ben documentata nella scrittura 
femminile dell’ epoca.’ 

De Amicis, che forse con questo mondo ebbe familiarita per aver sposato una 
maestra di Asti” incluse ogni grado della gerarchia scolastica nella sua opera, dalla 


'8 Tl magro salario dei maestri, e pill ancora delle maestre, é documentato ne I/ romanzo di 
un maestro attraverso il ritratto della maestra Strinati: “Trovarono la mestra Strinati davanti 
all’uscio di casa, in un cortiletto piccolissimo, dove dava il pastone a uno sciame di galline, 
con le quali cercava di riparare alla scarsita dello stipendio. . .. Aveva i capelli grigi e radi, 
con una spiazzata nel mezzo, il naso adunco, la bocca severa: portava un par d’occhiali 
affumicati; era vestita come una modesta merciaia” (23). 

'? Le donne che si preparano a diventare maestre sono descritte da Matilde Serao nel 
racconto “Scuola normale femminile” pubblicato sulla rivista Nuova Antologia (come Amore 
e ginnastica) nel 1885. Oltre ad Ada Negri e Matilde Serao, la maestra compare nell’ opera 
di Clarice Tartufari, Ida Baccini e Bruno Sperani: Clarice Tartufari, Maestra (Roma: Perini, 
1887); Ida Baccini J] romanzo di una maestra (Firenze: Salani, 1901); Bruno Sperani 
(pseudonimo di Beatrice Speraz), Nell 'ingranaggio (Milano: Sanzogno, 1885). 

?° Alberto Cavallari non esitd a giudicare la “maestrina di Asti” in questo modo: “. . . una 
moglie senza baffi, ma pit virile del tenente Edmondo dai gran baffi, in fondo, un carattere” 


Amore e ginnastica 111 


bidella “‘atletica e barbuta” (Fra scuola e casa 25) alla direttrice mangiamaestrine 
(Fra scuola e casa 23-4). Come ha sottolineato Calvino, la presenza della donna 
nella scuola e nella ginnastica apparve trasgressiva come uno “sterminato harem 
senza sultano,” minacciosa “come un nugolo di Minerve armate dalla mente di 
Giove” (Amore e ginnastica VIII). La professione di maestra con concorsi pubblici 
e trasferimenti spesso in citta o paesi lontani, esponeva la donna al sociale e la 
privava apparentemente della tradizionale protezione domestica. La mancanza di 
controllo della famiglia o della comunita poteva mettere in discussione la 
rispettabilita della donna, come accadde nel clamoroso caso di una maestrina 
toscana, Italia Donati, che per questo si suicidd (De Giorgio 78-80). Tra i numerosi 
“ritratti di maestra” che popolano la prosa di De Amicis figurano atletiche 
“superdonne” come la Pedani e la cugina del maestro Ratti de // romanzo di un 
maestro, vestali del nuovo credo nella ginnastica e personificazioni dell’ideale 
estetico che il Fascismo, come vedremo, fara proprio. 

La presenza della maestra di ginnastica nella cultura di fine secolo che De 
Amicis ritrae nella sua opera € un importante traguardo verso |’emancipazione 
femminile. Proprio a Torino nacque negli anni che fanno da sfondo ad Amore e 
ginnastica una scrittrice come Amalia Guglielminetti (1885-1941) che, con la sua 
modernita ed il suo anticonformismo, dell’emancipazione divenne il simbolo. 
All’inizio del Novecento le donne italiane che praticavano, o che ancor piu 
eccezionalmente, che insegnavano la ginnastica erano pochissime. La prima scuola 
per la preparazione di maestre di ginnastica fondata a Torino nel 1874 quattro anni 
prima che la materia divenisse obbligatoria in scuole elementari, secondarie e 
normali, costituiva una novita che per le sue implicazioni socioculturali non passo 
inosservata dal De Amicis e dai suoi contemporanei. La maestra Pedani in Amore 
e ginnastica & una vera pioniera: a ventisette anni é una donna istruita e 
professionalmente affermata, dedita all’insegnamento come ad un “apostolato per 
la rigenerazione fisica della razza,” al quale adempie “senza avvedersi né dei mille 
sguardi che si avvolgevano da ogni parte intorno al suo bellissimo corpo, né delle 
invidie e delle gelosie che suscitava” (Amore e ginnastica 17). Dedicandosi alla 
ginnastica, la maestra Pedani invade un privilegio maschile che in Italia era sorto 
essenzialmente come addestramento militare. 

La spregiudicatezza della protagonista di Amore e ginnastica emerge con 
grande evidenza dal confronto con le colleghe che come lei rappresentano la 
nascente classe magistrale. De Amicis attribuisce alla maestra |’immagine castigata 
di madre-monaca nelle opere intese per |’infanzia. Nel famoso Cuore, lo scrittore 


(Alberto Cavallari, “Perché nel Cuore manca la mamma” in La Domenica del Corriere, 6 
aprile, 1958). Una pid recente biografia, documentata dalla corrispondenza di De Amicis e 
dagli scritti di Teresa de Amicis apparsi dopo il suicidio del figlio Furio (Conclusione di 
Calista, Schiarimenti e Commenti) rivela le difficili sorti del matrimonio dello scrittore 
conclusosi con la separazione legale (Tamburini). 


112 Daria Valentini 


sottolinea quella modestia ed abnegazione missionaria delle maestre che 
grandemente lodava nei suoi discorsi pubblici. Una delle maestre di Cuore viene 
chiamata “la monachina,” per il suo aspetto castigato e dimesso: “sempre vestita di 
scuro, con un grembiale nero, e ha un viso piccolo e bianco, i capelli sempre lisci, 
gli occhi chiari chiari e una voce sottile, che par sempre che mormori preghiere” 
(Cuore 58). La maestra di prima superiore di Enrico, “vestita alla buona e pettinata 
male,” é ricordata dagli alunni come madre. Perfino in Amore e ginnastica il 
direttore scolastico della scuola dove insegna la maestra Pedani mortifica i propositi 
matrimoniali del segretario Celzani, ricordandogli che le maestre dovrebbero essere 
lasciate alla loro missione “come le monache.” Non stupisce che il De Amicis 
moralista ed educatore riservi il fascino segreto della maestra di ginnastica ad un 
pubblico adulto. 


3. La donna come oggetto di scrutinio, in palestra o in aula, ¢ un motivo che sfugge 
al moralismo del De Amicis comparendo con eguale insistenza, oltre che ne // 
romanzo di un maestro e in Amore e ginnastica, anche in una seconda opera, La 
maestrina degli operai, nella quale una giovane insegnante di periferia affronta le 
prepotenze e gli sguardi di una classe serale maschile. 

Il romanzo di un maestro anticipa I’ erotismo del racconto Amore e ginnastica 
non solo fornendo una controfigura al personaggio della maestra Pedani, ma anche 
al protagonista maschile del racconto. Nessuna maestrina passa inosservata dal 
delegato scolastico, che rappresenta la copia provinciale del segretario Celzani: “un 
tipo non raro nei villaggi, che é il signore, per lo pit attempatotto, che ha la vena 
amorosa della classe magistrale, come ci sono in citta quelli che l’hanno per le 
ballerine, per le crestaie, per le impiegate, o per altra famiglia particolare del bel 
sesso, la quale esercita sopra di loro un una specie d’attrazione professionale” (// 
romanzo di un maestro 86-87). La passione del delegato scolastico per le maestrine 
di paese nasce, come in Amore e ginnastica, da un ideale perseguito con tenacia, 
dall’ insoffocabile desiderio per cid che la maestra rappresenta: “qualche cosa di 
squisito e di recondito, non so che profumo di volutta letteraria e di castita 
monacale, che |’attirava, come un frutto proibito” (J romanzo di un maestro 87). 
L’insistenza sulla donna oggetto (dello sguardo o del desiderio maschile) rivela 
dunque |’inquietudine dell’uomo borghese verso le prime manifestazioni di potere 
femminile. Attraverso la scuola e la ginnastica, la donna agiva infatti nel tessuto 
sociale come soggetto indipendente e produttivo. 

Amore e ginnastica teorizza un nuovo ideale estetico femminile che licenzia 
con prepotenza le esangui eroine romantiche. Se |’interesse per l’educazione fisica 
fu parte del pragmatismo positivista, gli esiti che la ginnastica consegue sul 
pubblico maschile nell’opera di De Amicis sono d’altro genere. In Amore e 
ginnastica, il segretario Celzani non pratica tanto la ginnastica in palestra quanto 
salendo e scendendo le scale del condominio, nella speranza d’incontrare la maestra 
Pedani. I suoi acrobatici appostamenti per vederla non rientrano esattamente nel 
criterio di sana moralita che il Paroni, autore di un opuscolo a carattere pedagogico 


Amore e ginnastica 113 


apparso a Vicenza nel 1811, si proponeva mediante |’educazione fisica della 
gioventi.”’ Soprannominato Don Celzani per il suo passato da seminarista, il 
segretario, all’apparenza “una figura di notaio da commedia o di precettore di casa 
patrizia clericale,” cela sotto l’aspetto di mesto pretino “un temperamento fisico 
vivacissimo, una forte sensualita contenuta.” 

L’impetuosa avvenenza della maestra Pedani scatena dunque un’incontrollabile 
passione. II segretario non conosce ostacoli fisici né scrupoli morali: spia dal buco 
della chiave la Pedani che sul pianerottolo mostra gli esercizi respiratori 
raccomandati da Baumann all’inquilino del secondo piano, arranca sopra una 
fascina del soppalco, sporgendosi dall’abbaino, per sbirciare la conturbante 
immagine della Pedani che impavidamente esegue i passi ritmici a finestra aperta. 
La bianchezza della calza esposta sopra lo stivaletto lo abbaglia “come un raggio 
di sole,” confondendogli la vista e i sensi. Di sera, in camera sua, posta esattamente 
sotto quella della maestra, il segretario Celzani carpisce con trepidazione ogni 
sussulto, ogni minimo fruscio e con gli oggetti dell’amata nutre il feticismo della 
sua fantasia.” II delirio del protagonista si acuisce con |’arrivo della bella stagione 
quando gli abiti della maestra Pedani si alleggeriscono, confermando piu 
eloquentemente di ogni teoria i benefici risultati della ginnastica sul corpo della 
donna. Perfino i propositi matrimoniali, il pensiero dell’affetto, le idilliche 
immagini di vita familiare, non estinguono |’ardore della passione al cospetto della 
“opulenta bellezza” della signorina Pedani.”” 


7! Citando il trattato medico di William Buchan (Domestic medicine, or, a treatise on the 
prevention and cure of diseases, by regimen and simple medicines: with an observation 
concerning sea-bathing, and on the use of mineral waters, London, 1772), Paroni crede che 
nulla pit contribuisca alla salute fisica e morale “quanto un regolato ed acconcio moto del 
corpo” (12). L’opuscolo termina con curiose considerazioni antropologiche: “Forse 
l’eccessivo amore delle donne é in Asia l’effetto dell’oziosita de’ corpi e degli spiriti. E 
certo, che al Canada il selvaggio, giornalmente spossato per le fatiche della caccia e della 
pesca, é poco sensibile in generale a questo piacere. L’amore si tardo degli antichi Alemanni 
per le femmine era senza dubbio effetto della stessa cagione” (20). 

*2 T rumori provenienti dal piano superiore sconvolgono le notti del segretario Celzani: “Egli 
li conosceva tutti, e seguiva con essi tutti i movimenti di lei. .. . Abbandonando la persona 
adorata egli si contentava con la fantasia degli oggetti di lei, che sentiva cadere a uno a uno; 
e gli pareva che gli sarebbe bastato di avere quelli, di palparli, baciarli, addentarli, per uno 
sfogo. . . . E infatti, all’ora precisa in cui la Pedani soleva saltar git, egli sentiva il tonfo dei 
piedi nudi sull’impiantito, che lo scosse tutto; senti il fruscio usato ch’ella fece per vestirsi, 
poi il rumore sordo dei manubri tirati di sotto il letto; perché ogni giorno, appena levata, 
faceva un po’ d’esercizio” (Amore e ginnastica 45). 

23 ricorreva ai pensieri dell’affetto, immaginava la casa nuova di sposo, disponeva i 
mobili, si rappresentava delle scene affettuose, vedeva una culla bianca . . . Ma la passione 
lo assaliva subito anche in quel rifugio: egli vedeva un’altra culla, dieci, venti, un popolo 
uscito dal suo amplesso, e non gli bastava ancora, e si tormentava la fantasia su quella 
persona che gli rimaneva sempre davanti, fresca e potente, come un’immagine della 


114 Daria Valentini 


Don Celzani, che pare sempre vecchio nonostante abbia appena passato la 
trentina, é ammaliato da questa donna - sirena, indipendente e tenace, eternamente 
giovane e seducente come una mitologica creatura uscita dalle acque. La 
personificazione della bellezza in Amore e ginnastica é | immagine - come la 
chiama Calvino - di una brunilde wagneriana. Anche indossando uno straccetto, La 
maestra Pedani vanta le forme di una nuotatrice e la prestanza di una statua classica. 
Nel suo corpo “poderoso e svelto” il Celzani vede “uno splendore caldo di 
giovinezza matura”: spalle larghe e vigorose, braccia modellate dai manubri, vita 
sottile e fisico sinuoso. La maestra Pedani, non a caso battezzata dai condomini 
“vulneratrice invulnerabile,” cammina a spalle ben erette, per statura sovrasta il 
segretario che invece é un ometto, vive al piano di sotto e la guarda sempre dal 
basso in alto, un gradino pit git sulle scale, inginocchiato tra le foglie del soppalco 
o sul pavimento del suo ufficio. Consapevole del suo fisico poco aitante, Don 
Celzani si presenta alla maestra in una posizione subordinata, come “un conlocutore 
intelligente per le sue conversazioni predilette, uno specchio riflettore perpetuo 
della sua passione dominante, una specie di segretario intellettuale” (Amore e 
ginnastica 82). I ruoli convenzionali di dominio maschile e remissivita femminile 
paiono dunque sowvertiti dalla strana coppia (Brambilla 106). 

La maestra Pedani impersonifica la donna guerriera celebrata nel mito e nei 
poemi epici, da Bradamante a Marfisa, e forse anche per questo piacque a Calvino 
commentatore dell’Ariosto. Vive indipendentemente dalla famiglia e poco si sa 
sulle sue origini e sul suo passato; l’unica informazione che il Celzani scopre 
attraverso il direttore é che la maestra non é di Torino, ma é lombarda. E una donna, 
che, gia abbiamo visto, non ha interesse per |’altro sesso ma solo per la sua causa. 
La bellezza giunonica e aggressiva della Pedani é quella di un’amazzone, e, come 
tale, non si sottrae al preconcetto che non sia “femminile.” De Amicis insiste sulla 
virilita del personaggio in molte occasioni. Ne // romanzo di un maestro, la Pedani 
appare al concorso “grande, florida, con quell’alterezza virile,” impensierita per gli 
esami dei lavori donneschi, per |’imbastitura della camicia, per la quale mai aveva 
avuto propensione. In Amore e ginnastica la voce della maestra “bella e strana, 
quasi virile” armonizza con il vigore del suo corpo e le proporzioni delle sue mani 
grandi e forti. 

Il contrasto tra la Pedani ed il suo perfetto contrario, la collega Zibelli enfatizza 
il binomio femminilita/virilita. Le due donne condividono |’appartamento al terzo 
piano del condominio non senza difficolta. Lo spazio privato di ciascuna é lo 
specchio dell’anima e di un ben definito ruolo sociale. La Pedani é nemica dei 
ninnoli, nell’arredamento aborrisce la tendina ed il pizzo, concedendosi come unica 
decorazione alle pareti della sua camera spartana ritratti di famosi atleti e 
ginnasiarchi tra i quali De Amicis non manca di annoverare i sostenitori della 
ginnastica femminile (il Gallo di Venezia) e della ginnastica curativa (i fratelli 





giovinezza immortale e della volutta eterna” (Amore e ginnastica 94). 


Amore e ginnastica 115 


Ravano di Genova). La stanza, paragonabile al magazzino di un rigattiere, non da 
segno di grazia muliebre: attrezzi, libri e riviste “meloginniche” sono sparse con la 
stessa noncuranza che la maestra riserva alla sua persona. La Pedani non ha 
interesse né per |’eleganza né per la frivolezza che contraddistinguono la maestra 
Zibelli. Appare spesso trafelata dalla sua andatura svelta a passi lunghi, con 
l’incuria di un cappello posto malamente di sbieco o del capotto sbottonato. Mentre 
la Zibelli € volubile negli affetti, incostante e capricciosa, la Pedani ragiona 
pacatamente, agisce con buon senso, dedica tutto il suo entusiasmo al successo 
professionale con |’ardore di “una sacerdotessa ispirata.” All’insegnamento della 
ginnastica |’ha portata il suo “carattere maschio,” per il quale viene considerata 
“una donna misteriosa, refrattaria all’amore e quasi priva d’istinto sessuale.” 
L’antitesi Pedani/Zibelli si inserisce nella contrapposizione tra virilita e femminilita, 
che, come vedremo si ripropone nella coppia Pedani/Celzani a sottolineare 
ulteriormente la singolarita della maestra di ginnastica nella cultura dell’ epoca. 

Virilita non é un attributo tanto del corpo, quanto dell’anima. La perfezione 
fisica della maestra Pedani é offuscata solo da “un’espressione del viso e 
un’andatura un po’ troppo virili.” Il corpo della maestra, non é tuttavia mascolino, 
al contrario, “florido” non é un aggettivo consueto al maschile. La presunta virilita 
del personaggio si esprime in atteggiamenti che tradizionalmente (e letterariamente) 
si attribuiscono all’uomo: la voce sicura, il passo deciso, |’ostinazione, la resistenza 
e soprattutto la spregiudicatezza dovuta alla ginnastica che influisce sulla condotta 
pubblica e privata della maestra Pedani. Il valore di trasgressione insito 
nell’aggettivazione del personaggio si esplica ancor pit chiaramente mediante un 
confronto con il Manzoni, il quale usa il termine “virile” solo riferendosi alla 
monaca di Monza tra tutte le figure femminili de / promessi sposi. Come la maestra 
Pedani, Gertrude € una protagonista d’eccezione, agisce con determinazione 
contraddicendo la passivita che caratterizza Lucia, e nella sua spregiudicatezza 
riveste il ruolo di donna sensuale e demoniaca. 

La capitolazione della maestra di ginnastica all’amore nel felice, inaspettato 
epilogo del racconto ha la funzione, come ha sottolineato Brambilla, di ristabilire 
il tradizionale equilibrio dei ruoli nella coppia Pedani/Celzani. La passione del 
segretario contrastata sia dall’indifferenza della maestra che dalla la rivalita con il 
giovane Ginoni provoca un’evoluzione nel personaggio, inducendolo a smettere 1 
panni femminei del buon pretino timido e servizievole. Con la decisione di 
andarsene, quando tutto il palazzo gli sembra ostile ed il diniego della maestra 
irremovibile, il segretario Celzani assume un’immagine tradizionalmente pit 
maschile. Al contrario, nel lieto fine la maestra Pedani rinuncia al suo consueto 
distacco dalle emozioni e si piega all’amore, sorprendendo il segretario per le scale 
con ugual passione.” 


4 Nella scena finale la coppia s’incontra al buio, sempre per le scale del palazzo: “II signor 
Celzani?’ domando la maestra. Egli ruppe in un singhiozzo e mormoro: ‘Son venuto a dirle 
addio!’ Ma non aveva finito di dirlo che si senti una mano vigorosa sulla nuca e due labbra 


116 Daria Valentini 


Se Manzoni costringe la donna trasgressiva tra le mura del convento, De 
Amicis la riconduce all’altare. Il matrimonio svolse un ruolo determinante tra i 
valori dell’ emergente borghesia italiana. Quasi contemporaneamente al racconto 
del De Amicis usci il saggio di Alfredo Oriani (Matrimonio, 1886), una lettera 
contro il divorzio ed in difesa della monogamia, che fu significativamente 
ripubblicato durante il Fascismo nel 1928. I due discorsi rivolti da De Amicis alle 
ragazze delle scuole elementari di Torino, solo un paio d’anni dopo la 
pubblicazione di Amore e ginnastica (1894-1895), non lasciano dubbi sul 
divertissement del racconto e sul conservatorismo dell’autore come pubblico 
oratore. Alla donna De Amicis assegna il ruolo domestico di mediatrice e di 
consolatrice, nella maternita vede il pit: nobile esempio di virtt femminile: 


V’é un nome, soave in tutte le lingue, venerato fra tutte le genti, il primo che suona sul 
labbro del bambino con lo svegliarsi della coscienza, |’ultimo che mormora il giovinetto in 
faccia alla morte, un nome che l’uomo maturo e il vecchio invocano ancora, con tenerezza 
di fanciulli, nelle ore solenni della vita, anche molti anni dopo che non é piu sulla terra chi 
lo portava, un nome che pare abbia in sé una virtt misteriosa di ricondurre al bene, di 
consolare e di proteggere, un nome con cui si dice quanto é di pit dolce, di piu forte, di pit 
sacro nell’anima umana. 
Voi siete destinate a portare un giorno quel nome. 

(Ai ragazzi 88-89) 


De Amicis esorta a porre il matrimonio, “il pit grave e il pit amabile degli 
uffizi” al vertice di ogni aspirazione futura, auspicando che le giovani antepongano 
Pingegno alla ricchezza e la bonta all’ingegno. Tra le fila di queste sante madri 
“savie, buone, modeste, cortesi,” si aggiunge l’eccentrica maestra Pedani, ahimé, 
soio in extremis. 

E significativo che per molti versi il racconto di De Amicis anticipi gli sviluppi 
storici della ginnastica, ed che tratteggi in particolare il delicato rapporto tra donna 
e sport fino agli anni 30. L’apostolato della maestra Pedani sul valore della 
ginnastica per la rigenerazione della razza italica non trovo pubblico pit convinto 
del Fascismo. Amore e ginnastica esprime infatti quella visione patriottica ed 
eugenetica della ginnastica che verra poi strumentalizzata dal nazionalismo 
interventista.“° Molti dei temi toccati dal De Amicis in Amore e ginnastica si 


infocate sulla bocca...” (Amore e ginnastica 128). 

**Due dei discorsi di De Amicis (Ai ragazzi) sono specificamente rivolti alle ragazze (79- 
152). 

*° Si confronti su questo punto il saggio di Ferrara: “Lo sport come azione, come strumento 
per l’educazione degli uomini alla forza, al coraggio, al patriottismo, non era certo una 
novita introdotta dai futuristi; era stato anche e sempre il patrimonio comune dei teorici della 
ginnastica dalla meta dell’800 in avanti: Valletti, Baumann, Gallo, Reyer, al di 1a delle 
dispute di metodo, avevano sempre legato |’ideale della ginnastica e degli esercizi pseudo 
ginnastici a finalita patriottiche” (198). 


Amore e ginnastica 117 


riproposero infatti con pit ampie dimensioni a partire dagli anni 20, quando la 
propaganda fascista diffuse tra le masse l’ideale di forza fisica. Nel discorso al 
congresso dei maestri di ginnastica di Torino, la maestra Pedani afferma: “Una 
nuova educazione, fondata sopra un esercizio perfezionato delle forze fisiche 
dell’infanzia e della gioventu, preverra innumerevoli miserie, risparmiera 
all’umanita innumerevoli dolori, falcera mille vizi alla radice, agevolera alle 
generazioni che saranno pit buone perché pit forti, e pil giuste perché piu buone, 
la soluzione dei grandi problemi attorno a cui si affannano inutilmente ora le nostre 
menti malate e le nostre forze esaurite” (Amore e ginnastica 122). Qui De Amicis 
vede nella ginnastica lo strumento capace di sanare i vizi e le “menti malate” che 
il Lombroso attribuiva alle donne.”’ 

L’impatto pit decisivo dello sport sulla cultura italiana si ebbe al principio del 
Novecento, quando la novita della bicicletta tenne ulteriormente in sospeso il 
“fiatone” di Edmondo.”® Con il successivo sorgere del Futurismo lo sport assurse 
ad ideologia politica. Nel 1913 Marinetti defini il Futurismo come “un grande 
movimento antifilosofico, anticulturale, sportivo e guerresco."”” Rinnegare il 
passato equivalse per la nuova avanguardia a distruggere l’immobilismo morale e 
fisico dell’ intellettuale. I] Futurismo sostitui l’immagine del poeta tormentato con 
quella dell’uomo scattante, combattente e temerario. E noto che perfino I’esteta e 
poeta vate D’Annunzio subi il fascino della ginnastica e della palestra. I virtuosismi 
sportivi di Mussolini vennero pubblicizzati dalla stampa a fini politici e patriottici. 
Il Fascismo si impossesso della retorica futurista e del suo entusiasmo per la 
ginnastica, trasformando la cultura del corpo e della forza fisica ai fini della 
propaganda nazionalistica e militaristica. 

La maestra di ginnastica raffigurata da De Amicis, un’eccezione non priva di 
eccentricita nella societa torinese di fine secolo, presta il suo fisico alle italiane 
della generazione successiva. La donna forte e sportiva rappresento la perfetta 


27 Tl saggio di Lombroso e Ferrero, La donna delinquente, la prostituta e la donna normale 
fu pubblicato proprio a Torino nel 1893. Gli autori considerano ogni atteggiamento “virile” 
della donna come patologico. 

28 De Amicis descrive la bicicletta come un frutto proibito e tentatore (Pagine allegre 76-7). 
Nel 1918 Alfredo Oriani, autore dell’ “ode alla bicicletta,” poneva in luce l’esigenza dello 
sport in una societa che andava sempre pit industrializzandosi: “Nullameno una palestra, un 
trionfo fisico ottenuto nell’allegra liberta di un gioco e salutato dall’applauso di tutti perché 
comune a tutti, é indispensabile alla nostra come a tutte le epoche. Bisogna poter sfuggire 
almeno un giorno alla settimana dalla scuola, dal magazzino, dall’opificio, da tutte quelle 
stanze chiuse e tetre, senz’aria e senza luce, ove lavoriamo febbrilmente dalle dieci alle 
dodici ore al giorno .. .” (La bicicletta 45). 

2° La citazione é tratta da Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, “Futurismo e Fascismo” in La Civilta 
Fascista (Torino, 1928) 167. Per una completa trattazione dei rapporti tra ginnastica e 
Futurismo si veda “Futurismo, ginnastica e intervento: la prima guerra mondiale” (Ferrara 
195-202). 


118 Daria Valentini 


compagna dell’uomo fascista.*° Bellezza divenne sinonimo di robustezza: Come si 
diventa belle e forti (1926) era infatti il titolo di uno dei manuali che diffuse l’ideale 
estetico femminile del fascismo. Le donne che apparivano in copertina delle riviste 
di moda erano forti e “‘floride,” con le spalle larghe e la vita sottile, il corpo sinuoso 
della maestra Pedani di De Amicis. 

Con la diffusione della ginnastica tra le donne si acuirono i vecchi pregiudizi 
documentati dalla prosa di De Amicis. Nuovamente si ripropose la questione della 
decenza degli esercizi e dell’abbigliamento delle atlete. Se alla fine dell’ Ottocento 
ci si scandalizzava alla vista di una calza esposta sotto il gonnellone, |’ introduzione 
dei calzoncini nelle divise delle ginnaste offri ampia materia di biasimo. Pur con 
differenze regionali e sociali, |’atletismo femminile si impose nel decennio 1920-30. 
Con esso si riaccese nell’opinione dei conservatori |’antagonismo tra sport e la 
donna: si dubitd che la donna atleta compromettesse la sua missione di madre.*' La 
campagna demografica lanciata da Mussolini insistette sulla maternita come 
suprema ed inderogabile missione della donna, anche se atleta. Perfino le allieve 
dell’ Accademia di Educazione Fisica Femminile di Orvieto fondata dal Fascismo 
(1929) non trascuravano, tra gli impegni e gli allenamenti sportivi, di prepararsi a 
diventare supermadri di una razza altrettanto vigorosa. La “virilita” della maestra 
Pedani e la non-femminilita successivamente rimproverata alle atlete degli anni 
trenta era frutto dall’emancipazione che la ginnastica prima e poi lo sport 
conferivano alla donna, attuando quell’indipendenza nella sfera pubblica che la 
cultura non era ancora disposta ad accettare. 


Stonehill College 


3° In un articolo della Rivista Illustrata del Popolo d'Italia (1935) si legge: “Madri sane e 
forti danno figli sani e forti. La donna sportiva si perfeziona come compagna per |’uomo” 
(Isidori Frasca 58). 

3! Nel capitolo “La donna sportiva é ‘donna’?” (76-82) Isidori Frasca scrive: “Quando 
cominciarono a riscontrarsi nella donna italiana i primi effetti a livello psicologico e di 
comportamento, si venne a determinare una situazione scabrosa e imbarazzante. Infatti, da 
una parte il governo persisteva nella sua politica, fermamente convinto di essere nel giusto; 
dall’altra, molti presero a guardare con sospetto tale politica, in quanto intuivano I’ insinuarsi 
di un pericolo, e l’instaurarsi di abitudini che potevano trasformarsi in strumento capace di 
trasfigurare in berve tempo I’assetto sociale tradizionale” (76). Intervenuto a decidere sulla 
questione dell’atletismo femminile nel 1930, il Gran Consiglio del Fascismo decise che 
l’attivita sportiva della donna non doveva distogliere la donna dalla maternita. 


Amore e ginnastica 119 
Opere Citate 


Baldini, Antonio. “II fiatone di Edmondo.” Fine Ottocento. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1947. 

Banchetti, Silvestro. Scuola e maestri fra positivismo e idealismo. Bologna: CLUEB, 1988. 

Boero, Pino. Amore, socialismo e ginnastica. Genova: Tilgher, 1984. 

Borgese, Giuseppe Antonio. “De Amicis postumo.” La vita e il libro. Bologna: Zanichelli, 
1923. 

Brambilla, Alberto. “Le fatiche di Marte, i piaceri di Venere.” De Amicis: Paragrafi 

eterodossi. Modena: Mucchi Editore, 1992. 

Croce, Benedetto. “Edmondo De Amicis.” La letteratura della Nuova Italia. Bari: Laterza, 

1943. 

De Amicis, Edmondo. Amore e ginnastica. Introduzione di Italo Calvino. Torino: Einaudi, 

1971. 

. Cuore. Milano: Treves, 1907. 

. Fra scuola e casa. Milano: Treves, 1894. 

. Il romanzo di un maestro. Milano: Treves, 1890. 

. La maestrina degli operai. Milano: Treves, 1895. 

. “La tentazione della bicicletta.” Pagine allegre. Milano: Treves, 1906. 

De Giorgio, Michela. Le italiane dall’unita a oggi. Bari: Laterza, 1992. 

Ferrara, Patrizia. L Italia in palestra: Storia, documenti e immagini della ginnastica dal 
1833 al 1973 . Roma: La Meridiana Editori, 1992. 

Gigli, Lorenzo. Edmondo De Amicis .Torino: UTET, 1962. 

Isidori Frasca, Rosella. . . . e il duce le volle sportive. Bologna: Patron Editore, 1983. 

Marinetti, Filippo Tommaso. “Futurismo e Fascismo.” La Civilta Fascista. Torino, 1928. 

Mussolini, Benito, ed. Opera Omnia di Alfredo Oriani. Bologna: Cappelli Editore, 1928. 

Negri, Ada. Ste/la mattutina. Milano: Mondadori, 1921. 

Oriani, Alfredo. La bicicletta. Bari: Laterza, 1918. 

Paroni. Educazione fisica. Vicenza, 1811. 

Picco, Iclea. La scuola nel Risorgimento. Roma: Armando Armando, 1961. 

Scaramucci, Ines. De Amicis. Brescia: La Scuola, 1964. 

Spinosa, Antonio. /taliane. Il lato segreto del Risorgimento. Milano: Mondadori, 1994. 

Tamburini, Luciano. Teresa e Edmondo De Amicis dramma in un interno. Torino: Centro 

Studi Piemontesi, 1990. 

Teja, Angela. Educazione fisica al femminile. Roma: Societa Stampa Sportiva, 1995. 








Margaret Brose 


Dido’s Turn: 
Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa 


Virgilio ci accompagna non piu 
come un emblema ma come uno 
dei fatti della nostra vita.’ 


Let me begin by evoking the tantalizing though possibly false etymological 
connection between “Fascism” and “fascination.” From the Latin fascis (bundle, 
pack) we arrive at “the bundle of rods around an axe, carried by lictors [of ancient 
Rome] before the highest magistrates,” a sign of their power to punish even unto 
death; this becomes the iconographical symbol of the Italian Fascist Party. And 
possibly the Latin fascino derives from this same etymon, and signifies a magical 
spell or bewitchment by means of which a victim is bound, entrapped (Ripman 
170). What appeals in this false etymology is the shared erotic and political imagery 
of binding, being captivated, and the resultant incapacity to act.” The knot which 
holds the bundle of rods around the axe, or the victim to his/her fascinator, suggests 
by extension a textual knot. Dante explicitly uses “nodo” for a textual-erotic-moral 
entrapment. Medusa, Circe, and the Sirens are among our best known mythological 
fascinators. Dido and Cleopatra share this honor as well. If fascination is gendered 
as female, what are its political implications? 

What can Virgil’s Dido tell us about Imperial Rome? What can the figure of 
Dido in Giuseppe Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa tell us about modern Italian 
Fascism? Does Dido signal a type of fascination which interrupts the flow of culture 
and communication - an erotic, textual, and political knot? Dido is at once 
seductress and sovereign, exile and emperor, vanquished and victor, chaste and 
lascivious. Dido functions as a cipher of ambiguity itself and as a trope of change.’ 


' Giuseppe Ungaretti, “II poeta dell’ oblio,” in Vita di un uomo: Saggi e interventi (405). All 
citations from Ungaretti’s poetry and prose refer to the two-volume Mondadori edition, Tutte 
le poesie and Saggi e interventi (page numbers will indicate the volume Tutte le poesie, 
unless the title Saggi explicitly appears). 

* The linguist Paolo Valesio, while acknowledging that the above etymology may be false, 
speculates nonetheless about the interrelations between the two terms: “A fascination with 
Fascism is thus something more than a pun . . . it points to a knot that slows down the natural 
flow in what the macroscopic optimism of the humanists would still like to conceive as a 
unitary body politic -the body of culture and human communication.” Paolo Valesio, “The 
Beautiful Lie: Heroic Individuality and Fascism,” in Reconstructing Individualism ( 16). 

3 Two distinct Dido narratives coexist: both describe the resourceful Dido, who flees Tyre 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni 


122 Margaret Brose 


Her textual appearance marks a political and narratological turn, as well as a point 
of gender instability. 

In the following remarks, I would like to examine some of the textual and 
pyschological complexities in Giuseppe Ungaretti’s use of the figure of Dido in his 
unfinished poem, La Terra Promessa (1935-1953). I want to suggest, further, that 
the nexus of exile, empire-founding, political and gender instability which 
characterizes the Aeneas-Dido myth also characterizes both Ungaretti’s own 
biography and a host of cultural symptoms of the Italian Fascist program. Indeed, 
there is a growing critical literature analyzing the Fascist uses (and abuses) of 
images of gender and ethnicity.* Not surprising!y, this knot of erotic fascination and 
political threat appears as well in the historical tradition of the legends of Dido 
(including those earliest representations which were Virgil’s probable sources). We 
owe to Virgil the most influential textual representation of Dido; it is not surprising 
that the Dido episode is, in fact, the most wide-spread iconographic representation 
of the entire Aeneid itself. The Virgilian figure of Dido continues to haunt 
representations of the African Queen: St. Augustine, Dante, Boccaccio, Chaucer, 
Christine de Pisan, Vico, Metastasio, Berlioz, Purcell, Ungaretti, just to name a few 
of the many tales which foreground Dido and, by metonomy, Africa, as a nodal 
point of entrapment. Africa’s polymorphous perversity and threat to political 
foundationalism, I suggest, are syncretically collapsed into the polysemous figure 
of the female Dido. 

Clearly, reading Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa in relation to Virgil’s Aeneid is 
immensely rewarding. But stepping back from a literal intertextual comparison, we 
might profit from an interrogation of the “cultural syntax” of Ungaretti’s poetic 
enterprise itself. That is to say, what are the cultural “texts” evoked and rendered 
problematic by this ‘palimpsestal’ poetic project? What issues and images, 
historical and figurative, work in syntactic combination to create the “meaning” of 
this poem? I am using the term “palimpsest” in its more common meaning and also 
in the more technical sense given by Gerard Genette in Palimpsestes: La Littérature 
au second degré. In other words, I view the entire Terra Promessa as a richly 


after her husband has been murdered by own her brother Pygmalion; Dido vows fidelity on 
the ashes of her dead husband Sychaeus, and becomes the founder of Carthage. In one 
version, she commits suicide rather than marry the neighboring African King Ibaras; and in 
the other tradition, Dido, also resourceful founder of Carthage, falls in love wth Aeneas, and 
commits suicide upon his abandonment of her. We might say: Death by Chastity or Death 
by Lust. See Desmond’s Reading Dido which traces the historical representations of Dido. 
Desmond calls these two Dido traditions: “the historical Dido” and the “Virgilian Dido.” 
The “four cardinal ambiguities” which permeate both traditions I term: Dido’s Name, Dido’s 
Race, Dido’s Gender, Dido’s Death. 

4 Recent examples are the works of Victoria De Grazia, Barbara Spackman, (on Fascist 
“virilities"), and Karen Pinkus (on the body in Fascist advertising). 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 123 


textured example of what Genette calls hypertextualité.. For Genette, 
hypertextuality is that relationship which obtains between any text (B) and an 
anterior text (A), when text B is not explicitly a commentary on or parody of the 
earlier text. 

The opening examples which Genette offers of such a textual relationship put us 
squarely in the domain of Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa: according to Genette, 
both the Aeneid and Joyce’s Ulysses are based on the Odyssey, and yet feature 
different modes of “transformation.” Naturally, Genette’s full classificatory 
structure is much more complex than my remarks suggest. But I am calling upon 
Genette for a strategic reason. Borrowing his terms, I want to move onto other 
terrain, and to suggest that La Terra Promessa necessarily dialogues with what we 
might call “cultural texts.” It is in this sense that “formalist” or “textual-based” 
modes of interpretation can function as “culturalist” readings as well. To read the 
hypertextual nature of Ungaretti’s Dido choruses, we necessarily parse cultural 
syntactical patterns. Even more, given the paradigmatic mode in which lyric is read, 
or reads itself,° poetry reveals a kind of “cultural” information in a way that other 
genres do not. On this view, poetry houses the very matrix of cultural memory. 

Virgil’s Aeneid functions as the ‘palimpsestal’ primary model of La Terra 
Promessa. Ungaretti clearly set out to rescript a version of the Aeneid. And of 
course many of the critical studies of La Terra Promessa examine its relationship 
to images and episodes taken from the Aeneid.’ But I want to propose that a reading 
of the Dido Choruses calls up other texts of great interest. One such text we might 
term the “autobiographical text:” Ungaretti’s own life, his African birth, and his 
fascination with the rhythms, light, and landscape of Africa. The second we might 
term the “Fascist text,” which is to say, the cultural climate in which Ungaretti 
conceptualized the entire opus and penned its first fragments. The third text, which 
we could call the “Dido text,” is comprised of the vast cultural repository of the 
history of representations, visual, verbal, and musical, of the figure of Dido. 

Can attention to the formal properties of the Dido choruses bring these cultural 
hypertexts into play? Here I want to call upon the provocative remarks offered by 
Susan Stewart at the 1993 MLA Presidential Forum on “Multiculturalism.” At that 


> See R. Ceccarini for a different use of the term “hypertextuality” in relation to La Terra 
Promessa. Ceccarini examines the temporality of these choruses, but does not refer to other 
“texts” constitutive of the Ungarettian work. 

° Here I am thinking of the famous insight of Roman Jakobson that in poetry, the principle 
of equivalence is projected from the axis of selection onto the axis of combination; thus, 
paradigmatic relations can be discerned along the syntagmatic axis (357-59). Poetry allows 
us, therefore, to recover occluded or repressed cultural contents, since in lyric, both axes are 
accessible. 

” See for example, M. Hanne. The richest studies of the Dido figure in La Terra Promessa 
are by Petrucciani, Gugliemi, Paglia, Ceccarini. 

® The panel was entitled “Multiculturalism: The Task of Literary Representation in the 


124 Margaret Brose 


forum, which not surprisingly did not broach the topic of literary form, Stewart 
called for a “multicultural formalism,” in which “aesthetic forms might be taken as 
central to the epistemological and ethical possibilities of culture’s emergence” (14). 
For Stewart, cultural criticism’s tendency to validate realism (and narrative) as some 
zero degree of authenticity remains naive and restrictive. Finally, Stewart suggested 
that the lyric form above all should be re-evaluated as the site “of a constant 
querying of the boundary between the somatic and the social.” Lyric, in this view, 
might be seen as the micro-arena of those larger cultural negotiations of eros and 
power, of mimesis and subjection: the formal space in which the subject’s relation 
to the social and to the unconscious can be played out. 

With Genette and Stewart in mind, then, I will consider briefly La Terra 
Promessa’s hypertextual relationship to these other “texts,” mainly Ungaretti’s own 
biography, the Fascist campaign to colonize Africa (as well as the Fascist failure at 
the end of World War II), and the figure of Dido as a trope of political and gender 
instability. In the final section of this essay, I will examine some of the features of 
the Cori descrittivi di stati di animo di Didone in terms of their exploration of both 
the suspension of temporality (a poetics which problematizes the teleological force 
of imperialism, we might say) and the experience of abjection. 


I. From Africa to Rome 
The figures of Dido and Africa feature prominently in the autobiography and poetic 
itineraries of Giuseppe Ungaretti (1888-1970). Ungaretti was born in exile, as it 
were, at least in the Italian diaspora of the later nineteenth century, in Alexandria, 
where his Italian parents had emigrated to find work on the Suez Canal. Central to 
Ungaretti’s poetic corpus is the complex and unfinished La Terra Promessa, a work 
composed over the years 1932-1953. The poem was first published in 1950 with the 
title La Terra Promessa: Frammenti.’ Ungaretti later added twenty-seven “Ultimi 
cori per la Terra promessa,” and published them in // Taccuino del vecchio in 1960. 
However, the “ultimi cori” do not share either the poetic inspiration or the historical 
context of the original work, and indeed continue to be be published separately 
under the rubric of I/ Taccuino del vecchio'® 

At age 24, Ungaretti journeys westward out of Egypt to find his Promised Land, 
his Italic heritage.'' While La Terra Promessa is the title of his last and unfinished 


Twenty-first Century.” The proceedings are published in Profession ‘93. New York: MLA 
Publications, 1993. 

° A limited edition entitled Frammenti per la terra promessa was issued with original 
lithograph of Pericle Fazzini in Rome in 1945. 

'0 Tn fact, in his Introduction to // Taccuino, in the Mondadori Poesie, Ungaretti states that 
choruses 1, 2, 3, 24 were inspired by a visit to Egypt; that chorus 23 was inspired by a jet 
flight from Hong Kong; and that 16 and 17 were inspired by recent satellite launchings 
(573). 

'! At this point, Ungaretti’s cultural heritage was tripartite: by nationality he was a citizen 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa 125 


poetic project, we might think of the idealization of a “terra promessa” as the 
pervading mythos subtending all of his various poetic phases. Certainly the four 
major phases of his poetic career move from an epiphanic moment of union with 
life, the universe, and his comrades in the trenches of World War I (L’Allegria dei 
naufragi, 1919), through the experiences of time and loss (// sentimento del tempo, 
1933 and J/ dolore, 1947), to the re-figuration of that earlier epiphanic union in a 
hybrid mythology of a promised land (La Terra Promessa). The circle closes: the 
Aeneid, and later the Old Testament (in the last choruses of // Taccuino del vecchio) 
become the figures which are to be fulfilled in the poet’s personal mythography of 
a Promised Land. Sinai and Africa merge; Moses and Aeneas are figures of each 
other, neither permitted to enter the Promised Land. 

The title of Ungaretti’s entire poetic corpus is Vita di un uomo; in 1931 he spoke 
of his work as a biography: “Questo vecchio libro é un diario. L’autore non ha altra 
ambizione . . . se non di lasciare una sua bella biografia” (527-528). His life’s work, 
he claimed, was to raise autobiography to the level of myth. The dehistoricized 
plenitude of that “paese innocente” experienced in the trenches of World War I and 
recorded in L’Allegria becomes the telos of a personal and collective Promised 
Land. The first and the fourth poetic phases are specular images of each other. 
Ungaretti was not unaware of the centrality of the mythos of the Promised Land in 
his corpus: 

Tutta la mia attivita poetica, dal 1919, si svolgeva in quel senso [alla Terra Promessa]: un 
senso pill obbiettivo che non fosse quello dell’A//egria, e cioé una proiezione e una 


contemplazione dei sentimenti negli oggetti, un tentare di elevare a idee e miti la propria 
esperienza biografica. 
(429) 


Or we might, along with Leone Piccioni in his introduction to Ungaretti’s Tutte le 
poesie, chart this same poetic spectrum of Ungaretti’s works in terms of landscape 
and optics (xxi): the four major phases move between an Italic promised land, 
fertile and verdant, and the desert; between vegetation and sand. And both 
landscapes are mutually entailed, with spectral reflection of the one in the other, as 
the desert calls forth its natural other, oasis and mirage. 

Uncannily, Ungaretti’s own life traces the cartography of Italian Post-unification 
history, from the nineteenth century crisis of emigration, to Italy’s interventionist 
stand in World War I, to Fascism. Ungaretti was a participant in all of these events. 
In fact, the first publication of // Porto sepolto (1923) carried a preface by 
Mussolini himself; this was suppressed in all subsequent editions. During 
Ungaretti’s lifetime, there was a promulgation of the Virgilian myth of Aeneas, 
which had always been central to Italy’s various political self-constructions because 





of an as yet unknown Italy; he had been educated in French schools and wrote his first 
poems in French; his formative experiences all took place in an Arab quarter of the city. 
Interestingly, this parallels the deracinated biography of Marinetti, as well. 


126 Margaret Brose 


of the significance of the Roman Empire. Indeed, 1930 marked the Bimillenial 
anniversary celebration of Virgil’s birth (born Publius Vergilius Maro in 70 B.C. 
near Mantua), which inaugurated an entire decade of international congresses and 
the publication of new journals and books. The Virgilian fever was especially high- 
pitched in Rome during those years. Obviously, Fascism was more than casually 
invested in the successful interpellation of the Aeneas story into Italian mass 
culture. Mussolini, in fact, “subsidized the production of texts of Virgil and 
encouraged the reading of his works as incentive to a specifically Italian 
imperialism” (Griffin 112). While many contemporary critics now view the 
Virgilian epic as anti-imperialist,'? we must remember that it was evoked by 
Mussolini as the paradigmatic tale of conquest, of the righteous need to appropriate 
“primitive” or virgin lands. Indeed, the Aeneas story appeared to sanction such 
expansion, all in the name of Italy’s rightful ascension to her once and future role 
of Imperial power. 

To be sure, Italy’s colonialist interests in Africa are already in evidence as early 
as the nineteenth century. But the conquest of Libya in 1911 marks the beginning 
of an imperialist program which culminates in 1934-35, with Mussolini’s decision 
to invade Ethiopia (Salinari 140). It might be argued that Italy’s attraction to Africa 
was not specifically motivated; that is, that in order to compete with the great 
colonial powers of Europe, especially England and France, Italy simply needed to 
have colonies, and that any foreign territory open to conquest would do. However, 
Italy’s erotic attraction to Africa was centuries old, and massively over-determined: 
Africa as the site of Aeneas’s dalliance with Dido, and Africa as the site of the 
Punic Wars. Oriental Africa is figured as both beginning and telos of Rome’s glory. 
“Africa orientale italiana” was in fact the appellation given to the new Empire, with 
the letters “AOI” printed in official documents and carved on edifices. 

The Aeneid as an epic of nation-building suggests the dark side of partisanship, 
perhaps because Virgil comes to his interest in promoting a national character from 
the position of an outsider, a subaltern, just as does Ungaretti two thousand years 
later; just as did Aeneas himself, and Dido also, for that matter. Of course, the 
twentieth century Italian Fascist appeal to the Aeneid bears none of Virgil’s original 
ambiguity or melancholy. Yet Ungaretti’s meditation on Virgil in La Terra 
Promessa retains, and indeed intensifies, the imprint of Virgil’s chiaroscuro 
melancholy. La Terra Promessa might be read as a countertext to the Fascist 
promotion of the Aeneas myth. This is not to suggest that Ungaretti consciously 
intended to deflate a Fascist myth, but that his exploration of the Aeneas-Dido story 
ineluctably led him to the experience of failure and loss. 


'2 And this anti-imperialism can be seen from the first to the last line: In Book I , v.33 we 
learn of the heavy cost of nation-building :"tantae molis erat Romanam condere gentem.” 
And the entire twelve-book epic concludes with the inconclusive and anti-triumphal verse: 
“vitaque cum gemitu fugit indignata sub umbras “ (Bk.XII, v.952). 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 127 


II. Abjection 

Virgil’s Aeneas leaves Troy to found Rome, in a fateful Westward expansion after 
the divinely ordained fall of Troy. Aeneas himself is, however, from the outset a 
figure of loss — indeed of multiple losses, those of nation, home, even (and not 
incidentally) of his wife Creusa. Much of the plot and ideology of the Aeneid myth 
have to do with precisely how the loser becomes a winner; how the vanquished 
becomes the victor; how the effeminate becomes masculinized. Dido represents the 
momentary derailment of our hero’s epic surge, a detour of passion eventually 
overcome by the political pull of the epic linearity.'? But Carthage and Dido 
constitute as well the trope by which Aeneas is finally able “to turn himself around.” 
The notion that Aeneas begins in flight as a “‘subaltern” is of course a “postmodern” 
reading, we might say, or at least a reading against the grain. In its historical uses, 
the Aeneas story has everything to do with the notion of divine ordination 
(strength), rather than with Freudian over-compensation (weakness). The “strong” 
Aeneas is interpellated in the Fascist justification to take the dark body of Africa for 
its own Italic citizens. Turning to the specific iter of Ungaretti’s poetry, we might 
ask why Ungaretti reverses his own autobiography, and journeys back to “Africa” 
just at the time that Italy colonizes Ethiopia. 

La Terra Promessa was to tell the Aeneas myth from the multiple points of view 
of Aeneas, Palinurus, Dido, and the dead children. I am especially interested in the 
nineteen lyric choruses entitled Cori descrittivi di stati d’animo di Didone. These 
fragmented choruses represent a poetic experience of detemporalization and 
degenderment for Ungaretti. The Dido choruses provide the arena for an 
experimental encounter with the forms of a distinctively “feminine” writing, as well 
as with what we might call the voice of abjection. 

It seems, then, that in La Terra Promessa Ungaretti has actually cast himself as 
two distinct characters. He explicitly identifies with Aeneas who leaves Africa for 
Italy, as did the poet himself. However, in the nineteen Cori di Didone, Ungaretti 
“voices” the experience of the abandoned Dido, through the introspection and 
memory flashes which lacerate the Carthaginian queen. By so doing, the poet scripts 
a feminized sublation of the male succession myth. Ungaretti gives voice to the 
emotions of abandonment, subalterity, and masochistic memory. This moment 
signals an ideological subversion of the epic narrative of empire, which must 
necessarily be constructed to contain the passion of Dido. The entrapment of 
Aeneas by Dido (or the reverse) and his subsequent abandonment of her are the 
fundamental elements of the epic telos of Aeneas. Yet, when Ungaretti 
ventriloquizes Dido’s inner being, he experiences the perverse pleasure of 


'? See David Quint on Epic versus Romance and their generic/political imperatives. When 
Henry Purcell, in his opera, Dido and Aeneas, has Dido sing “Remember me, forget my 
fate,” she implicitly begs Aeneas to remain with her in memory, in the Romance. We might 
argue that this is precisely what Ungaretti has accomplished in the Dido Choruses. 


128 Margaret Brose 


abjection, and halts the Empire.“ 

Ungaretti was deeply drawn to the multiple narratives of loss, weakness, and 
bitter memory within the Aeneas myth: Dido is abandoned, Palinurus sinks to a sea 
death, the young Marcellus dies prematurely. Other losses, such as Troy, Carthage, 
Creusa, Anchises, also permeate the myth. Ungaretti planned to write the Aeneas 
experience in different voices. Its original conception was extremely ambitious: 
there were to be sections written from the point of view of Dido, Aeneas, Palinurus, 
Marcellus (the dead children). A wide variety of poetic/musical forms were to be 
used: sestina, recitativo, canzone, finale, and the cori for Dido’s voice. Stylistically, 
the nineteen choruses stand in stark contrast to the other, highly aulic, metrically 
closed forms utilized by Ungaretti in this work. The entire work was planned to be 
performed as a “melodramma,” an idea inspired, Ungaretti has said, by his hearing 
Tasso’s madrigals set to music by Monteverdi (Cary 216). Interestingly, the only 
part of La Terra Promessa which has actually been set to music is the section of 
Dido choruses (by the Italian composer Luigi Nono). 

The fact that Aeneas is never present, either in figure or voice, in Ungaretti’s 
poem, and that Palinurus, Dido, and Marcellus or the dead children were to be the 
dominant voices, is testimony to the extent of Ungaretti’s attraction to the 
experience of abjection and loss. The Ungarettian “autobiographical text” also 
speaks of loss: World War I and World War II, the death of his son Antonietto in 
1939, the death of a brother. It was the premature death of Antonietto, at age nine, 
while Ungaretti was teaching in Brazil, which most inspired the stylistic 
experiments of those years, a memorial poetics of absence-in-presence. 

Let us look more closely at the conception and inception of Ungaretti’s La Terra 
Promessa. The poem was begun as early as 1932, and published in 1950 (with the 
subtitle Frammenti). It consisted of a Canzone, describing the inner state of the 
poet; nineteen brief Cori descrittivi di stati di animo di Didone; a recitativo di 
Palinuro, in the highly complex metrical form of a sestina; and four short 
occasional poems (Di persona morta divenutami cara sentendone parlare; 
Variazioni su nulla; Segreto del poeta; Finale). Again, it is interesting that there is 
no poetic section voiced by Aeneas. Ungaretti tells us that he had originally 
projected a section entitled Cori d’Enea, and that perhaps the later choruses from 
Il Taccuino del vecchio (1960) might in some way represent its draft. However, 
these ultimi cori do not bear this out. At no point is Aeneas given voice; 
importantly, the poetic, psychological, and political possibility of a promised land 
remains merely hypothetical, suspended within Aeneas’s interiority. 

The original title of La Terra Promessa was to be La Penutima Stagione. “Era 
l’autunno che intendevo cantare nel mio poema, un autunno inoltrato, dal quale si 
distacchi per sempre l’ultimo segno di giovinezza, di giovinezza terrena, |’ultimo 


'4 See Silverman, especially chapter 5, “Masochism and Male Subjectivity.” Silverman uses 
as epigraph to that chapter: “Perversion: Turning aside from the truth or right; diversion to 
an improper use. (185). 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa 129 


appetito carnale” ( 546). The original title of the opening Canzone was to be 
Trionfo della Fama, a clear allusion to the six Trionfi by Petrarca (in which the 
second triumph, that of Fama, overcomes that of Death). And yet this title could not 
do justice to the profound ambiguities in Ungaretti’s conception of memory. 
Ungaretti’s self-constituted poetic genealogy traces a memorial sweep from Petrarca 
to Leopardi.'° The Petrarchan concern about time and memory certainly subtends 
the entire Ungarettian project. Petrarca was also, of course, the poet of the 
somewhat neglected epic Africa. Setting out to write about the autumn of his life, 
Ungaretti discovered the season of winter: “Doveva essere la poesia dell’autunno, 
é invece la poesia dell’inverno” (551). 

Ungaretti describes the Choruses of Dido as representing the departure of the 
final glimmerings of youth from a person: 


Sono 19 cori che vogliono descrivere drammaticamente il distacco degli ultimi barlumi di 
giovinezza da una persona, oppure da una civilta, poiché anche le civilta nascono, crescono, 
declinano, muoiono. Qui si é voluto dare l’esperienza fisica del dramma con riapparizioni 
di momenti felici, con trasognate incertezze, con pudori allarmati, in mezzo al delirare d’una 
passione che si guarda perire e farsi ripugnante, desolante, deserta. 

(566) 


Dido voices, then, a nation’s demise. According to Ungaretti, Palinurus was to serve 
as an emblem of desperate fidelity: faith both in the heroic quest of Aeneas, and 
also in the notion of innocence: “l’impresa folle di raggiungere un luogo armonioso, 
felice, di pace: un paese innocente, dicevo una volta” (566). Aeneas, Ungaretti tell 
us, is beauty, youth, ingenuousness forever in search of the promised land. But the 
figure of Aeneas is already cast in the shadows of loss : “La bellezza perenne (ma 
inesorabilmente legata al perire, alle immagini, alle vicende terrene, alla storia, e 
quindi solo illusoriamente perenne . . .) prese nella mia mente aspetto d Enea” 
(429). But Ungaretti quickly adds: “Ma non é il mito di Narciso: é unione della 
memoria, della fantasia e della speculazione: di vita della mente” (430). 
Consequently, Ungaretti’s reworking of the Aeneas myth problematizes even the 
possibility of Nation-founding. Not only does Ungaretti purposefully not describe 
Aeneas’s epic actions, nor even intimate that Aeneas will successfully found the 
Roman Empire, he carefully constructs a poetics of regression. The poet sketched 
the following scenario for La Terra Promessa: the poem opens as Aeneas lands at 
Cumae, the land promised to him and his people by the gods. But precisely at this 
moment of triumph, Aeneas is possessed by memories of the past. This corresponds 
to the Virgilian visitation of the dead in the Aeneid, the trip to the underworld by 


'S Ungaretti describes the temporal dimension of the “Canzone” as Leopardian: “C’é un’ora 
nel Tramonto della Luna di Leopardi nella quale non c’é pit: nessuna luce, non c’é pit la 
luce del sole che non é ancora giunta né preannunciata, non c’é pili la luce della luna che € 
tramontata . . . un mondo completamente oscuro, vuoto” (550). 


130 Margaret Brose 


Lake Avernus near Cumae. In Ungaretti’s poem, Aeneas first remembers Dido, and, 
as in Book VI of the Aeneid, Dido is evoked, appears, and fades away. Paramount 
among the many differences between the encounter of Aeneas and Dido in Book VI 
of the Aeneid and Ungaretti’s representation of Dido in his La Terra Promessa are, 
first, the fact that Ungaretti’s Dido refuses to remain silent; and second, that 
Ungaretti refuses to return Dido to the loving care of her former husband Sychaeus. 
Ungaretti’s Terra Promessa effectively denies both any reparation and any 
Auerbachian sense of figure-fulfillment. 

We have seen that Ungaretti explicitly conceived of the Dido choruses as 
expressions of the exhaustion or depletion of a Civilization. Paolo Valesio, in his 
study of Gabriele D’Annunzio, The Dark Flame, devotes a chapter to the 
D’Annunzio-Ungaretti genealogy — a surprising collocation, in many respects. What 
unites these two great poets, according to Valesio, is their shared investment in an 
image “that is a topos with an archetypal resonance: the Miles patiens. “ (145) 
Valesio sees this topos as “a special inflection of a much broader theological and 
iconographical archetype: the Christus patiens.” This topos appears as early as 
1892 in D’Annunzio’s Giovanni Episcopo. The “patiens” becomes, in D’ Annunzio 
and Ungaretti, the particular attribute of a soldier, but a martyred soldier. Valesio 
makes at this point a compelling claim: “By the end of the Great War, D’ Annunzio 
had intuited something that fascism was never to comprehend, and this lack of 
understanding would lead the regime into the disaster in its alliance with Germany 
in World War II.” What D’Annunzio sensed, continues Valesio, “was that Italy had 
exhausted itself in the war effort, that it’s imperial role was definitely lost” (147). 
D’Annunzio’s genius let him take this intuition and fashion it into poetry. 
“Divining, even at the peak of the Italian victory, a decline away . . ., he begins to 
fashion (over and beyond any polemics about ‘mutilated Victory’) a discursive 
vision of Italy as martyr or victim.” This discourse, set in the years of World War 
I, goes beyond what will become institutionalized fascist rhetoric.” And Ungaretti, 
according to Valesio’s insight, situates himself in “the D’Annunzian trail of the 
Miles patiens.” (148). 

Valesio refers here particularly to Ungaretti’s poems of L ’Allegria, which indeed 
were written in the trenches of Carso in World War I. But we may expand this 
notion of martyrdom, and detach it from the male soldier of that Great War, and 
apply it to the role of the abandoned or abject “other” who must be sacrificed for 
the foundation of the State. The original Ungarettian project of La Terra Promessa 
appears to intuit that Italy’s imperialism was already exhausted; that the African 
conquests would be undermined by some innate weakness in Fascism itself. Is the 
memory which seizes and then paralyzes the Ungarettian Aeneas the necessarily 
suppressed content of all processual tales of the conqueror? Does Africa signify the 
danger of epic’s potential fall into the “feminized,” the female figure itself being a 
trope for the experience of loss? 

In her study of the rhetoric of sickness in European decadence, Decadent 
Geneologies, Barbara Spackman points to the pervasive use of de-gendering forms 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 131 


of speech in writers such as D’Annunzio and Lombroso, Baudelaire and Huysman. 
This lack of “virility” in the discourse of decadence Spackman terms 
“degenderation.” Sickness and convalescence become favored topoi, in an attempt 
to present “a new interpretation of the body’s relationship to thought” (ix). This new 
interpretation “comes into being through a feminization of the male ‘protagonist,’ 
who discovers a ventriloquist mode of speech in which the body spoken through is 
necessarily a ‘woman’s’ body.” This occupation of the woman’s body is “the means 
by which he [the decadent] appropriates alterity.” 

Spackman’s formulation will help us understand why Ungaretti chooses to speak 
through Dido as a way into the realm of “alterity.”'° Dido, as a Phoenician exile, 
was in fact Semitic before becoming North African. Dido, like Cleopatra, 
instantiates the conjunction of the two dominant Western traditions of imaging 
alterity, or the subaltern: that is, by “feminizing” and “orientalizing,” both of which 
carry the explicit threat of unmanning the Empire.17 Dido encodes a geographical 
allegory, itself gendered: Dido is to Aeneas as Carthage is to Rome, and as East is 
to West. 

Ungaretti was of course aware of the Dantean references to Dido (twice 
mentioned in the circle of Lust, Inferno V, and importantly, not reconciled with 
Sychaeus). Dante does not place Dido in the circle of the suicides (Inferno XIII), 
although she is described as one who killed herself for love and broke faith with the 
ashes of Sychaeus (“L’altra é colei che s’ancise amorosa,/ e ruppe fede al cener di 
Sicheo;/ poi é Cleopatras lussuriosa.” V, 61-63). Dido’s syntactic proximity to 
Cleopatra in the tercet by Dante underscores the “orientalized” female role of both 
African queens, icons of the lust that undoes epic.'® Significantly, these are both 
women who perform masculinity, both sovereigns who fascinate precisely because 
they unman or halt the Roman Empire. It would seem that Dante understood this 
aspect of the eros of the African queen; let us remember that Dido and Cleopatra 
appear in the canto whose first nominated inhabitant is Semiramis, the incestuous 
Assyrian Queen who “made lust legal in her law (“‘libito fé lecito in sua legge,” 
Inferno V, 56). Not only is Semiramis another African Sovereign of pure libidinal 
drive, she represents the actualization of the suppressed fear that males experience 
in the presence of such sovereign women: she “made into law” the very passion that 
effeminizes the man — the lust that makes him perform the female — and by the 
specular reversal allows her to perform the male. Any sexual alliance outside of a 
normative heterosexuality is a form of generic incest, a vertible crossing of 


'6 Here one needs to examine a similar and yet wholly different projection into the soul of 
Dido on the part of Ovid in Heroides VII. 

'7 Mary Hamer, in Signs of Cleopatra, underscores to what extent the figure of Cleopatra 
designates the place where power and desire interact; it is in this sense that I refer to the 
Dido figure as a textual, political, and gender trope or turn. 

'8 See Dante, Purgatorio 26, the Terrace of Lust, where Caesar is described as having 
become a “queen” while in Africa; his sin was sodomy. 


132 Margaret Brose 


generational lines. 

Let us look at the story of Dido through the lens of one of Italy’s most 
idiosyncratic readers, Giambattista Vico. Vico’s New Science of 1744 contains 
several references to Dido. The most startling, however, occurs in the “Libro Primo 
dello Stabilimento de’ Principi:” Dido is placed at the end of the heroic age, says 
Vico, and she was driven out of Tyre because she had been conquered in a heroic 
conquest, as she professes to have left the city on account of her brother-in-law. 
This “multitude of Tyrian men” was called in “heroic” diction a woman because it 
was made up of the “weak and the vanquished”: 


La quale noi poniamo nel fine del tempo eroico de’ fenici; e si cacciata da Tiro perché vinta 

in contesa eroica, com’ellea il professa d’esserne uscita per l’odio del suo cognato. Tal 

moltitudine d'uomini tirii con frase eroica fu detta femmina, perché di deboli e vinti. 
(418; emphasis mine) 


Is Dido thus a rhetorical trope of the “miles patiens”? Dido was a man, Vico 
contends, and a collective and vanquished one at that.” 

While maintaining that “Dido” belongs to the “heroic” age, Vico signals that she 
resides in a moment of transition, a tropic “turn” from heroes to men. He asserts that 
the nomination of “Dido” serves to mask the defeat and weakness of a male 
collective. Vico’s is one of a large number of commentaries which link Dido and 
her name change, from Elissa to Dido, to both a political and a gender turn.”° For 
our purposes, Vico’s insight seems congruent with that sense of defeat and 
exhaustion which Valesio had ascribed to D’Annunzio and Ungaretti, and with the 
intuition that “empire” had played itself out. More importantly, Vico seems to be 
alluding, avant /a lettre, to a kind of “performance” of weakness which, however 
biologically grounded, might be represented as female. 

Alongside of the “feminized male” (Vico’s vanquished Tyrian men) we recognize 
the “masculinized” Dido, who eventually manages to flee both Tyre and the tyranny 
of her brother Pygmalion, and who founds the city of Carthage (by a male act of 
Machiavellian statecraft). This empire-founding Dido is a force of moral 
regeneration, with precisely those attributes of prudence, justice, and fortitude 
which epic usually assigns to the male hero. This civic regeneration is possible 
because our heroine has been functionally regenderized, or virilized.”! In fact, most 


'? In another reference to Dido, Vico invokes Aeneas in his discussion about the distinction 
between citizen and hostis. Men such as Theseus who abandoned women of whom they were 
guests were considered at that time “heroic.” In like manner, Aeneas must be defended, Vico 
maintains, for he abandoned Dido “per ubidire a’ fati, i quali, benché fusse straniera 
anch’essa, gli avevano destinata Lavinia moglie in Italia” (562). 

*° For example, Boccaccio, Christine de Pizan. 

*! Dido and Aeneas are alter-egos and indeed “male” rivals: both vanquished, in exile, and 
then founders of great empires. In his study of Dido, R. Monti notes over and over that 
Virgil depicts Dido as a “political” figure rather than as the sentimentalized heroine of the 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 133 


of the commentators on Dido (the cultural “Dido Text”) mention her manliness, 
even her hardness. Virgil’s description of Dido as “dux femina” recurs throughout 
the centuries as her particular oxymoron. 


III. Dido’s Turn 

The nineteen fragmented Dido choruses constitute a self-enclosed poetic unit within 
the larger Terra Promessa. Aeneas is the ostensible subject — obsession, more 
precisely — of the lyrics, but absent from them, and at no point named. The haunting 
landscape of the poems is Carthage, or perhaps a mythic hybrid of the 
autobiographical and textual aspects of an African port city. Interestingly, 
Ungaretti’s first return to Egypt occurs in 1931, a journey which produces the 
Quaderno Egiziano” (parts of which are later published in 1949 in I/ povero nella 
citta). Perhaps this return to Africa served as the impetus to rethink the Aeneas story 
within a landscape which had already been transferred to the plane of myth. 
Ungaretti tells us on the first page to his “Notes” to the La Terra Promessa that this 
work was begun 1935 (545). However, several pages later he states: “Ho preso a 
comporre La Terra Promessa incominciando a scrivere nel ?32 la Canzone” (549). 
In either case, the poetic project coincides with his return to Egypt and with the 
Fascist campaigns in Africa. It also coincides with his “rediscovery” of the Virgilian 
landscapes around Rome in 1932. 

In discussing the choruses of Dido, I will not dwell on the many hypertextual 
connections to Virgil’s Aeneid.” I am primarily interested in the manner in which 
Ungaretti has constructed a unique meta-temporality and a shifting, nomadic 
subjectivity. Both of these poetic features dissolve the forward-moving epic syntax 
of the Aeneas tale; beyond this, they suggest that Dido and Aeneas are in many 
ways alter egos of each other (both in their condition of exile, loss of political 
power and of love). Ungaretti’s construction of nomadic time and nomadic 
subjectivity thus makes problematic epic’s basic premise that all individual 
instances of suffering will be sublated in the greater collective gain of Empire, in 
a final telos. Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa may also be read, implicitly, as a 
counter-text to Dante’s use of Virgil’s Aeneid as the figure which comes to 
fulfillment in the Divina Commedia, and which thus foreshadows Christian 





Greek Romance tradition. 

2 As Leone Piccioni notes ( Vita di un poeta), this text of 100 pages “si occupa della 
situazione politica ed economica, della tradizione e della storia, del paesaggio, e inserisce 
stupende pagine di una liricita tesa e fremente,” but interestingly, there are very few 
references to the “ventiquattro anni da lui passati in Alessandria” (126-127). 

3 Besides Hanne, see Sergio Sconocchia in the volume Ungaretti e i classici. There are as 
well several recent “congressi” and journal volumes which offer interesting discussions of 
Ungaretti: Atti del convegno internazionale su Giuseppe Ungaretti (Urbino, 3-6 ottobre, 
1979); Rassegna della letteratura italiana, vol. 1-2, 1990; and Revue des études italiennes, 
vol. 35, no. 1-4, 1989. 


134 Margaret Brose 


suffering and redemption. 

The meta-temporal dimension permits the choruses to evoke numerous time- 
frames contemporaneously: the prehistory of Dido’s love story, its moments of 
rapture and betrayal, her anger, weariness, an almost masochistic pleasure in her 
abjection, an ironic recognition of the vanity of all things. Thus, the multiple verbal 
tenses which appear even within a single, short, poetic fragment do not function as 
true grammatical temporal indices. They constitute a kaleidoscopic but single 
“present” of the enunciation, testimony to Dido’s passion and sense of 
abandonment. We are witness always to a highly self-conscious “post-traumatic” 
Dido, who dilates on her loss, moving vertically along a paradigmatic axis. Here | 
join the many critics of Ungaretti who speak of the simultaneously expanding and 
contracting temporality in the Dido Choruses as “Augustinian” in nature. The 
Choruses resemble poetic explorations of the questions about time raised by St. 
Augustine in Book XI of the Confessions: 


From what we have said it is abundantly clear that neither the future nor the past exist, and 
therefore it is not strictly correct to say that there are three times, past, present, and future. 
It might be correct to say that there are three times, a present of past things, a present of 
present things, and a present of future things. Some such different times do exist in the mind, 


but nowhere else that I can see. 
(269) 


This passage refers, of course, to the incommensurability between Divine 
temporality (or Eternity) and the human understanding of time, with its limited 
grasp of God’s omnipotence and omnipresence. The intuition is also perfectly 
Petrarchan and Leopardian, implicitly at the base of the psychological and stylistic 
experiments of Petrarca, and explicitly, of those of Leopardi. The phrase could have 
been extracted from Leopardi’s Zibaldone, where it would be charged with an irony 
lacking in Petrarca. In Ungaretti, it reverberates with a different tonality as the poet 
explores the fullness of non-kairotic time. St. Augustine was the African precursor 
of all three poets. 

The nineteen Cori decrittivi di stati di animo di Didone consist of short poetic 
fragments of varying lengths. The shortest (XIX) is comprised of two verses, the 
longest (XIV) consists of fifteen verses. The stylistic register of the longer choruses 
often resembles the syntax of Ungaretti’s Sentimento del tempo, and indeed evinces 
much of the same temporal anxiety as that collection. Yet the choruses of Dido are 
less “hermetic” than the poems of Sentimento del tempo. 

A semantic field of lexemes and images recurs and unites the nineteen choruses, 
which is that of an African port: sea, sand, harbor, sails; the semantic field 
comprising a chiaroscuro index of the passage of time: stars, twilight, dawn, night, 
sleep, shadows; the semantic field of fire, flame, ashes, and smoke. These semantic 
fields intentionally evoke images from the Aeneid, and from Ungaretti’s other 
poems. But the individual lexemes are here deployed with irony. Dido speaks a 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa 135 


past, present, future and conditional which are all contained within this dark 
“kairotic” present moment. Most of the choruses explicitly address the passage of 
time by means of these images of fire, water, or light. There is a diffused temporal 
anxiety and irony throughout. The numerous instances of the lexeme fire ironically 
reverberate against the framing fires of the Dido-Aeneas tale. The Dido “knot” 
resides between two flames, we might say: the prefigurement of her rekindled love, 
now for Aeneas (she confides to her sister Anna: “agnosco veteris vestigiae 
flammae,” Bk.IV, v.23) and the flames of her funeral pyre and the city’s 
destruction. Among other examples in the Dido Choruses we read: “Un sospeso 
fuoco” (II); “mio cuore che brucia” (III); “ai nostri intimi fuochi” (XI); “Ardee 
errare cineree solo vedo” (XVIII). 

Stylistically, we might speak of the entire section as paratactic in structure, in that 
the individual choruses do not bear a logical, temporal, or discursively syntagmatic 
relationship to one another. The obvious exception would be the opening and 
closing choruses. Chorus I is expressly about the lenthening of time, and the final 
chorus (XIX) seeks to annihilate it entirely. Interestingly, the penultimate chorus 
(XVIII) may be read as a version of the final curse which Dido lays upon Aeneas 
(Aeneid, Bk. 4); however, Ungaretti’s Dido speaks a foreshadowing which is 
already past perfect. The tone of XVIII prepares us for the mood of the last chorus, 
but not for its brevity. 

The first and the final choruses carefully frame the entire group of fragments. In 
the fourteen line fragment of Chorus I, Dido’s inner self evokes a prior moment of 
youth, before her present lacerating pain, when she was still desired. In the first 
three verses, syntax, typography, and phonemic repetitions (the vocalic “a” and “o”, 
the liquids “n” and “I’) draw out with exquisite pain the experience of time’s 
corrosive power, proleptically and metaleptically. The next five verses abruptly 
rupture and collapse that temporal extension. 


Dileguandosi |’ombra, 
In lontananza d’anni, 
Quando non laceravano gli affanni, 


L’allora, odi, puerile 
Petto ergersi bramato 
E l’occhio tuo allarmato 
Fuoco incauto svelare dell’ Aprile 
Da un’odorosa gota. 
(vv. 1-8) 


The remaining verses of the fragment viciously turn upon themselves in a 
metacommentary on the illusion/manipulation of time created in the opening verses; 


136 Margaret Brose 
“Jungamente” glosses the opening three verses: 


Scherno, spettro solerte 
Che rendi il tempo inerte 
E lungamente la sua furia nota: 


Il cuore roso, sgombra! 


Ma potra, mute lotte 
Sospite, dileguarsi da eta, notte? 
(vv. 9-14) 


The future tense of the last two verses is hypothetical, residing within the over-laden 
“present” of the enunciation. So too for the imperative “sgombra!” The open-ended 
infinitive “dileguarsi” returns us to “dileguandosi” in the first verse. The fourteen 
lines of this first Chorus appear to mimic the traditional sonnet, with its tripartite 
structure. 

The final chorus, XIX, is a bitter two line fragment. While it contains a “passato 
prossimo” verbal tense, its affect is again atemporal. 


Deposto hai la superbia negli orrori, 
Nei desolati errori. 


The lapidary condemnation reads like a sepulchral inscription. Here the temporal 
dimension is all but negated, since the double condemnation, intensified by the 
rhyme “orrori/errori” functions more as an aforism than a temporal action; so too 
for the alliteration of “deposto” and “desolati.” 

Chorus II opens with another demonstration of a morphosyntacic temporal 
lengthening: 


La sera si prolunga 


Per un sospeso fuoco... 
(vv. 1-2) 


Chorus III, on the other hand, presents a different construction of a “present” 
tense. As we have seen, the first chorus provides a demonstration of lyric’s capacity 
to manipulate time and to reduce all grammatical indices to a meta-present. Chorus 
III, instead, relies primarily on a literal present indicative tense. 


Ora il vento s’é fatto silenzioso 

E silenzioso il mare; 

Tutto tace; ma grido 

Il grido, sola, del mio cuore, 
Grido d’amore, grido di vergogna 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 137 


Del mio cuore che brucia 
Da quando ti mirai e m’hai guardata 
E pit non sono che un oggetto debole. 
(vv. 1-8) 


This chorus is totally centered on the fullness of a present (“ora”). The interesting 
combination of a passato remoto (“ti mirai”) and a passato prossimo (“m’hai 
guardata’’) in verse 7 suggests that even the past re-memorialized refuses to fall into 
a balanced chiasmus. The different modalities of the two past tenses, as well as their 
differing semantic denotations, bring the affective differential of the originary Dido- 
Aeneas “glances” fully into the present. 

The Dido choruses are sensuous lyrics, oscillating between memory and a 
pseudo-premonition. Mario Petrucciani offers another insight into the verticality of 
their temporality. Whatever the actual grammatical verbal tense of any given verse, 
they present characteristics of what Petrucciani decribes as the “conditional.”” 
Petrucciani notes that while Dido usually speaks in the present, and often in the past 
and future, she uses the conditional tense eight times (18); and that half of the uses 
of the conditional verbs appears with “non.” For Petrucciani, this implies an internal 
tension, the simultaneity of the desire and its “disinganno” (20). He considers this 
type of syntagm to mark the voice of Dido’s unconscious. I would add that indeed 
the Conscious and the Unconscious are at all times co-present in the Cori descrittivi 
di stati di animo di Didone, as the title itself suggests, as are all temporal indices. 
In other words, the lyrics offer the syntagmatic sequentiality of time as well as the 
simultaneity of the paradigmatic axis. This is equally true of the collapsed spatiality 
of the Freudian model of the Conscious/Unconscious domains. 

Whatever the actual grammatical verbal tenses used, the “conditions” which 
would normally signal a conditional verbal tense permeate all the Dido choruses. 
Even the grammatical present tense is hypothetical, real and yet contrary to fact; 
proleptic and metaleptic. The remarkable temporal elasticity and flection constitute 
a fullness of time akin to the Kairotic moment, but in Dido’s case, one of abjection: 
an epoché of irony. In Chorus XIII we read that “‘if’ Aeneas’s love should rise again 


... impassibile farebbe 
Numerare le innumere sue spine 
Spargendosi nelle ore, nei minuti. 
(3-5) 


The simultaneity of desire and doubt (extension and contraction) is ironically 
underscored not only by the conditional verb, but by other stylistic devices: the 


*4 See Petrucciani, // condizionale di Didone, sections | and II, for provocative insights on 
Dido and memory. 


138 Margaret Brose 


paranomasia of “numerare” and “innumere”, the phonic evocation of “impossibile” 
offered by “impassibile,” the alliteration of “spine” and “spargendosi.” We might 
add that the entire aulic tradition of Italian verse urges us to read “stelle” instead of 
“spine” (although an ironic precursor to that verse might be Leopardi’s “E noverar 
le stelle ad una ad una” of Canto notturno di un pastore). This is an impossible 
conditional, and yet Dido takes an abject satisfaction in delineating the particulars 
of its impossibility (“ore”, “minuti’”). 

Chorus XVII again figures Aeneas within an impossible conditional tense: 


Trarresti dal crespuscolo 
Un/’ala interminabile. 


Senza fine la sabbia 
Forse ravviveresti. 
(1,2; 5-6) 


Again we find an explicit semantic register of a temporal dimension: “crespuscolo,” 
“interminable,” “senza fine.” “Forse,” however, only intensifies the irony inherent 
in this already decontructed scenario. 

The temporality present in these choruses bears no relationship to the temporality 
of the Aeneid. In Book IV of the Aeneid, after Dido’s pleas to Aeneas to remain 
with her in Carthage go unheeded, she quickly resolves on death. The epic syntax 
allows her just enough measured time for monologue within its metered frame. Her 
modality fluctuates between her pain and her hatred of Aeneas, but always within 
what we might call a similar amplitude of intensity and speed. In fact, the rhythm 
of Book IV literally plunges us onward in frenzy, both the frenzy of Aeneas to flee 
and the frenzy of Dido to impede that flight or to perish by her own hand. Epic 
syntax denies to Dido of Book IV the experiences of Dido of Book VI. However, 
in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa, Dido manipulates lyric time and _ its 
psychological affect: this is, after all Dido’s turn to call the shots. She is alternately 
tender and furious; time expands and contracts, at her bidding. This apercu is made 
possible because Ungaretti has conceived of his poem as outside of narrative 
temporality, indeed, as a poem which marks the suspension of time and thus the 
incompletion of Aeneas’s task of nation-founding. 

Virgil of course offers us an impassioned monologue as Dido prepares to fall on 
the sword of Aeneas; importantly, Virgil has Dido enunciate a vitriolic curse on the 
descendants of Aeneas, which had often been interpreted as a prophecy of the Punic 
Wars. But Ungaretti halts the epic’s forward thrust so as to allow Dido to dilate on 
her abject situation, and perhaps to enjoy it. To dilate is to defer: narration becomes 
the means for both the attenuation of time and for erotic entrapment, for fascination. 
Is the attenuation of time in the Dido choruses Aeneas’s contrapasso for his 
narration of his own epic “gesta” in Books II and III of the Aeneid, the very 
narration which ignites Dido’s love for Aeneas? Aeneas tells the Carthaginian 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 139 


Queen that the pain in narrating his past is too terrible for tongues; and yet, he goes 
on to narrate and to weep. This story-telling episode is thus a figuration for the 
scene of entrapment and fascination that Dante experiences with Francesca, in 
Inferno V; Francesca also protests too much, yet narrates and weeps. 

Furthermore, and significantly, along with a shifting temporal dimension, there 
is a shifting deictic point of enunciation. In many of the choruses the first person 
enunciator ( “io” ) is clearly identified as the Dido of the Aeneas-Dido myth. While 
the deictic “tu” appears frequently as the addressee of the message, occasionally the 
identity of the enunciator remains ambiguous. Who speaks the “thou”? Do we 
imagine a collective choral speaker (as indeed the designation “coro” might imply): 
a community of like-minded speakers who address Dido as “tu”? Or can we also 
imagine that the “tu” is Aeneas addressed by Dido (and of course in Italian this 
ambiguity occurs only when there would be no obvious gender/number markings 
in the poem)? Yet if we keep in mind that these are choruses of a double interiority 
— choruses of the inner states of mind of Dido, but embedded within the inner state 
of mind of Aeneas as he steps foot on his Promised Land — then we surely find 
ourselves in a deictic “mise-en-abyme.” But this very subject slippage is part of the 
fabric of the poetic sequence, and one of the reasons why we can invoke a differing 
series of cultural “texts” to complement Genette’s notion of hypertextuality. As we 
know from Ungaretti’s notes to the La Terra promessa, Dido is a figure of autumn 
which moves into winter, of aging, of the end of a civilization, of a Nation undone. 
As Dido seeks to re-experience a lost power, to abolish time, and simultaneously 
to control the experience of power’s loss, she speaks as Ungaretti and as Italy the 
nation. 

Chorus VIII explicitly addresses the erotic and destructive mimesis between Dido 
and Aeneas: 


Viene dal mio al tuo viso il tuo segreto; 
Replica il mio le care tue fattezze; 
Nulla contengono di pit i nostri occhi 
E, disperato, il nostro amore effimero 
Eterno freme in vele d’un indugio. 
(vv. 1-5) 


As the lyric deploys a dizzying series of possessive adjectives, the reciprocity of 
their love obliterates the outside world (“‘Nulla’’), and at the same moment displays 
its own finality with the oxymoric enjambement “effimero/eterno.” “Effimero” 
echos in “freme”, which rhymes with “vele,” condensing the entire drama of this 
lost love into the figure of the departing sails of Aeneas. But this is no simple 
metonomy. Abject Dido appears to enjoy the linguistic display of this reciprocity, 
this sensual deictic intimacy with Aeneas, despite its ultimate ironic failure (as does 
Dante’s Francesca as she describes the trembling kiss she shares with Paolo). 
Chorus IX opens with the tone of abjection, of a withdrawal of affect as it 


140 Margaret Brose 


catalogues the images no longer able to fascinate Dido (“Non pit m’attragono i 
paesaggi erranti / Del mare . . .). It closes with her total reification: “Le immagini 
a che pro / Per me dimenticata?”. Similar utterances of abjection appear earlier, for 
example, in Chorus III: “E pit non sono che un oggetto debole” and “Da quando 
pit non sono / Se non cosa in rovina e abbandonata.” Dido consistently refers to 
herself as one tossed aside, rejected. 

The paratactic nature of the choruses precludes any unidirectional progression of 
affect. After expressions of her abject objectification cited above, Dido is still able 
to imagine, in Chorus X, her sensual re-eroticization : 


Il mio declino abbellird, stasera; 
A foglie secche si vedra congiunto 
Un bagliore roseo. 
(vv. 4-6) 


This future is of course already a past perfect; and rosy gleaming evokes the flames 
of her funeral pyre. 

The penultimate chorus comes closest to Dido’s expression of both rage and a 
cold condemnation of Aeneas. Yet there is also the suggestion of a frisson of 
self-satisfaction. Chorus XVIII evokes the curse laid upon Aeneas by Dido before 
her death (Book 4) which has been seen as a foreshadowing of the hardships which 
Aeneas will encounter upon arriving in Italy as well as of the long and bitter years 
of war between Carthage and Italy. Once again, we are in an Augustinian present, 
which contains the future and past as coexistent. The first three line stanza portrays 
the destruction of Carthage in the passato remoto: 


Lascio i campi alle spighe |’ira avversi. 
E la citta, poco pit tardi, 
Anche la sue macerie perse. 
(vv. 1-3) 


Dido wanders through the wasteland of desolate fields and urban rubble heaps; even 
Wrath, which had burned the city, has abandoned the scene. The destruction of 
Carthage is complete, but Dido’s abjection and her degradation of Aeneas continue. 
Dido, in the present (“solo vedo’’), watches “ashen herons, terrorized,” wandering 
through fetid swamps and thickets, near “the nests and excrements of their 
voracious young”: 


Terrorizzate urlanti presso i nidi 
E gli escrementi dei voraci figli 
(vv. 6-7) 


Dido, desperately seeking signs of Aeneas, finds that whatever fame (“fama”) 
remains to him is now merely wind, the fetid stench dispersed over this infernal 





Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 141 
wasteland. The final stanza of this chorus is bleak: 


Per fetori s’estende 
La fama che ti resta, 
Ed altro segno pit di te non mostri 
Se non le paralitiche 
Forme della vilta 
Se ai tuoi sgradevoli gridi ti guardo. 
(vv. 9-14) 


There could be no more ironic commentary on the original title of the Canzone, // 
trionfo della fama, than this stanza. This is an infernal fame, much like that of the 
city of Florence in Dante’s opening terzina of Inferno 26: “Godi Firenza, poi che 
se’ si grande / che per mare e per terra batti l’ali, / e per lo ‘nferno tuo nome si 
spande!” This terzina introduces the canto of another epic hero, Ulysses (the anti- 
type to Pious Aeneas), who is encased in the flames of his own rhetoric. In 
Ungaretti’s Chorus XVIII, Aeneas is captured by the abject rhetoric of Dido. 

Aeneas is absent from this desolate scene, to be located somewhere else, perhaps 
in that fictional passato remoto with which the chorus opens. But he is conjured into 
the nunc of the enunciation of the poem by Dido’s voice, and her insistent use of the 
deictic pronouns. Signs of Aeneas, the paralytic forms of his cowardice, appear only 
if Dido conjures them, and him, into being (“se . . . ti guardo”). Dido’s terrible 
contrapasso may be that she is damned to wander eternally the ruins of her once 
great city Carthage; Aeneas’s, that he is forever trapped in the abject present that 
Dido’s voice constructs for both of them. In Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa, Dido 
will never encounter Aeneas again in the underworld; nor will she be able to seek 
haven in the arms of her former husband Sychaeus. But, then, Aeneas will never 
found his Empire. Aeneas is bound tight to Dido, as is the sailor to the Sirens, and 
in the fasces, the bundle of rods to the axe. Thus the final Chorus of Dido (“Deposto 
hai la superbia negli orrori, / Nei desolati errori”) might well be read as the epitaph 
of Imperialism writ large. 


University of California, Santa Cruz 


142 Margaret Brose 


Works Cited 


Atti del convegno internazionale su Giuseppe Ungaretti. Urbino, 3-6 ottobre, 1979. Urbino: 
Quattro Venti, 1981. 

Augustine, St. Confessions. Trans. R. S. Pine-Coffin. London: Penguin, 1961. 

Benario, Janice M. “Dido and Cleopatra.” Virgilius 16 (1970): 2-6. 

Cary, Joseph. Three Modern Italian Poets: Saba, Ungaretti, Montale. New York: New York 
UP, 1969. 

Ceccarini, Raffaella. “Un caso di ipertestualita: I ‘Cori di Didone.’” Ungaretti e i classici. 
Ed. M. Bruscia, R. Ceccarini, M. Petrucciani, S. Sconocchia, M. Verdenelli. Roma: 
Edizioni Studium, 1993. 91-102. 

De Grazia, Victoria. How Fascism Ruled Italy: Italy 1922-1945. Berkeley: U of California 
P, 1992, 

De Pizan, Christine. The Book of the City of the Ladies. Trans. Earl Jeffrey Richards. New 
York: Persea Books, 1982. 

Desmond, Marilynn. Reading Dido: Gender, Textuality and the Medieval Aeneid. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1994. 

DuBois, Page. “The Pharmakos of Virgil: Dido as Scapegoat.” Virgilius 16 (1970): 2-23. 

Genette, Gerard. Palinsesti: la letteratura al secondo grado. Torino: Einaudi, 1997. (Italian 
trans. of Palimpsestes: La littérature au second degré. Paris: Seuil, 1982). 

Griffin, Jaspar. Virgil. Oxford: U P, 1986. 

Guglielmi, Guido. /nterpretazione di Ungaretti. Bologna: I] Mulino, 1989. 

Hamer, Mary. Signs of Cleopatra: History, Politics, Representation. London/New Y ork: 
Routledge, 1993. 

Hanne, Michael. “Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa and the Aeneid.” Italica (1973): 3-25. 

Jakobson, Roman. “Concluding Statement: Linguistics and Poetics.” Style in Language. Ed. 
Thomas A. Seboek. Cambridge: MIT Press 1978. 

Monti, Richard. The Dido Episode and the Aeneid. Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1981. 

Paglia, Luigi. “L’inversione delle connotazioni espansive sul piano spazio-temporale- 
antropologico negli ungarettiani ‘Cori di Didone’.” Critica letteraria 21.1 (1993): 85- 
95. 

Petrucciani, Mario. // condizionale di Didone: studi su Ungaretti. Napoli: Edizioni 
Scientifiche Italiane, 1985. 

Piccioni, Leone. “Prefazione.” Ungaretti, Vita di un uomo, Tutte le poesie. Milano: 
Mondadori, 1969. 

. Vita di un poeta: Giuseppe Ungaretti. Milano: Rizzoli Editore, 1970. 

Pinkus, Karen. Bodily Regimes: Advertizing under Fascism. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota 
P, 1995. 

Putnam, Michael C.J. Virgil’s Aeneid. Chapel Hill/London: U of North Carolina P, 1995. 

Quint, David. Epic and Empire: Politic and Generic Form from Virgil to Milton. Princeton: 
Princeton U P, 1993. 

Reconstructing Individualism: Autonomy, Individuality, and the Selfin Western Literature. 
Eds. T. Heller, M. Sosna, D. Wellbery. Stanford: U P, 1986. 

Ripman, Walter. A Handbook of the Latin Language. London: J.M. Dent & Sons, 1930. 

Salinari, Carlo. Miti e coscienza del decadentismo italiano. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1960. 

Sconocchia, Sergio. “Ungaretti e i classici latini: Lucrezio e Virgilio.” Ungaretti e i classici. 


999 


Dido’s Turn: Cultural Syntax in Ungaretti’s La Terra Promessa_ 143 


Ed. M. Bruscia, R. Ceccarini, M. Petrucciani, S. Sconocchia, M. Verdenelli. Roma: 
Edizioni Studium, 1993. 59-87. 
Silverman, Kaja. Male Subjectivity at the Margins. New York: Routledge, 1992. 
Spackman, Barbara. Decadent Genealogies: The Rethoric of Sickness from Baudelaire to 
D’Annunzio. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1989. 
. Fascist Virilities: Ideology, and Social Fantasy in Italy. Minneapolis: UP, 1996. 
Stewart, Susan. “The State of Cultural Theory and the Future of Literary Form.” Profession 
‘93. New York: MLA Publications, 1993. 12-15. 
Ungaretti, Giuseppe. Vita d'un uomo: saggi e intervisti. Ed. Mario Diacono, Luciano Rebay. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1974. 
. Vita di un uomo. Tutte le poesie. Ed. Leone Piccioni. Milano: Mondadori, 1969. 
Ungaretti e i classici. Eds. M. Bruscia, R. Ceccarini, M. Petrucciani, S. Sconocchia, M. 
Verdenelli. Roma: Edizioni Studium, 1993. 
Valesio, Paolo. Gabriele D’Annunzio: The Dark Flame. New Haven: Yale UP, 1992. 
. “The Beautiful Lie: Heroic Individuality and Fascism.” Ed. T. Heller, M. Sosna, 
D. Wellbery. Reconstructing Individualism: Autonomy, Individuality, and the Self in 
Western Literature. Stanford: UP, 1986. 
Vico, Giambattista, Opere filosofiche. Introd. Nicola Badaloni. Firenze: Sansoni, 1971. 
West, Grace Starry. “Caeneus and Dido.” Transactions of the American Philological 
Association 110 (1980): 315-24. 





; Se ge) = 
> > et + = = po germs 
_  wadiese cams 


—— 7 
ee —_— a 
a _ a a Oo 
+ : _ oe Oe 





Karen Pinkus 


“Black” and “Jew”: 
Race and the Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 


I. Resistance and Race 

Psychoanalysis, and in particular, the concept of the unconscious, have traditionally 
met with a certain resistance in Italian culture. Although Freud’s work was 
embraced by Jewish intellectuals in Trieste before the war, and later even by an 
idealist like Croce as Jennifer Stone has noted, at the level of a broader (bourgeois 
or popular) discourse or practice psychoanalysis found primary opposition in the 
developments of philosophical positivism, and in the Church.’ It would appear 
senseless to consider the peculiarity of the so-called analytic situation in Italy 
without at least noting its ambiguous relation with confession, for example. As a 
“Jewish” mode of confession, analysis reduces the speaker to a weak being before 
a castigating god; this leads not to redemption, but to a continual agitation, 
skepticism, abstraction. Even during the 1950s when the Church felt compelled to 
recognize the good works of Italian psychiatry (Italy has been in the forefront of 
social and institutional programs to treat the mentally ill), the Vatican insisted upon 
the juridical and moral priority of confession over the analyst-client privilege.” In 
addition to the peculiar influence of populist Catholic ideology, others factors 
shaping the historical antagonism toward Freudian thought in Italy include the 
political developments of Fascism, and the relatively retarded formation of the 
Italian bourgeoisie. 

Categories of race or ethnicity, and in particular, the uncanny approximation 
of the fantasized figures of “black” and “Jew” have also contributed to a logics of 
opposition. In a practical sense, the racialization of psychoanalysis realizes itself 
most profoundly with the development of the Fascist racial laws in the 1930s. In 
fact, the Italian Society for Psychoanalysis, founded by Eduardo Weiss, was forced 
to disband in 1939. Yet at a more abstract level, psychoanalysis in Italy had long 
been nuanced by race thinking (“race thinking before racism,” to borrow Hannah 
Arendt’s terminology); by the deeply entrenched association of Freud with so-called 
Jewish prophetism, a mode of discourse that was believed to originate in the ancient 
cults of inferior castes, and in the pandemic and ecstatic forms of the “Southern 


' Stone offers an excellent frame within which to understand the reception of analysis on the 
part of key intellectuals. 

* For the papacy’s position on this priority of confession, see n.a., “Morale e psicanalisi in 
un discorso del papa,” J] messaggero di Roma (April 16, 1953): 1. A good overview of 
institutions can be found in Francesco De Peri. 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


146 Karen Pinkus 


races”’ (figure 1). In its essence as a “Southern” science, psychoanalysis might be 
linked both with a form of demonic possession and an excessive obsession with the 
effects of such possession. Although many Ethiopians were Christians, racial 
literature attempted to create a sense of distance from Italy by focussing on 
demonism as a dominant force in Coptic religious sentiment (figure 2). In part, this 
“creation” of difference was to allow a space for missionary work to intercede with 
the indigenous population. Ironically, Mussolini’s hierarchy drew on much older 
literature that understood Islam as the “rightful religion” of the region, to be 
defended against the heretical Copts. As in the construction of the unconscious as 
a radically differentiated space, the various maneuvers by racial “scientists” and 
ethnographers helped to produce accounts of racial inferiority and conflict among 
the various sub-groups in East Africa, but above all, to produce difference in the 
proper degree. We might here invoke Homi Bhaba’s notion of the colonial 
encounter as one of mimicry in the psychoanalytic sense; not pure identification, but 
“a desire for a subject of difference that is almost the same, but not quite” (Bhabha 
131). 

Admittedly, it may be difficult to locate cultural associations between racial 
thinking and psychoanalysis in Italy in comparison with other nations in which 
racism and anti-Semitism have a richer and more institutionalized legislative 
history, just as it has always been difficult to penetrate a long-standing and 
reinforced cultural myth about the lack of inherent racism in Italian subjects.’ 
Moreover, one might convincingly argue that given the circumscribed interest in 
Freud’s “new science” among Italian intellectuals, race thinking in the broadest 
sense, does not exercise any particular influence on psychoanalysis. Yet analysis has 
also enjoyed a popular reception (often as a deterministic pseudo-science at odds 
with a dominant form of maternal knowledge and common sense psychology) and 
this popularization exerts a reciprocal influence on the construction of “high” 
discourse. Although the rejection or disenfranchisement of psychoanalytic theory 
is by no means universal in Italy, it may be possible to locate a culturally abject 
nucleus in the Freudian corpus that, like the unconscious itself, blocks a National 
Transference with the Father of the Discipline. 

The conflation of “black” and “Jew” is fundamental in a wide variety of 
European racial literature beginning in the nineteenth century. Both races served as 
negative exemplars for non-Europeanism, non-Aryanism as both were invested with 
particular qualities within particular cultural contexts. Haile Selassie of Ethiopia 
was caricatured as a Jew, for example. In the 1930s, a crucial moment in the 
intersection of race thinking and the resistance to psychoanalysis, “black” and 


3 Giancarlo Petacchi, “Vita di pioneri,” in Accerboni 297. 
* For the question of this historical front of non-racism, see my Bodily Regimes, especially 
Chapter Two, “Selling the Black Body: Advertising and the African Campaigns.” 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 147 


“Jew” were often conceived as synonymous with a so-called American mentality . 
The American/black/Jew might be designated as lazy, greedy, degenerate, and 
sickeningly porous.” Racial publications included photographs of blacks with 
captions suggesting that their very physiognomy revealed their pathological lack of 
aptitude for work (figure 3). This image emerges from a form of popular ethno- 
photo-journalism imported in its essence from Nazi Germany. Black/Jewish identity 
is fixed in an authoritative caption reading: “Two typical Americans,” from the 
Fascist publication La difesa della razza. The various symptoms of the black/Jew 
are supposed to become suddenly and indelibly “visible” in the physiognomy of the 
individuals pictured. Ironically, however, America simultaneously served as the 
positive model for Fascist forms of rationalized productivity that help to speed up 
and modernize Italian workers. Ultimately, then, the only signifier generated by the 
combination of picture and word in the racial press is again that of (over- 
determined) difference tout court. 

For an Italian public, whether they were reading material prepared by their own 
scientists or translated from a German context, the black/Jew was understood to 
occupy a charged and differentiated space that was both polluted and, 
paradoxically, immune, bracketed off from disease or contamination. This dual 
structure emerges with particular force in scientific literature on mental illness or 
degeneracy. The black/Jew was believed to suffer from a variety of psychical and 
physical ailments that marked him as different; yet he was marked also, precisely, 
for his “resistance” to illness, a condition that isolated him from the general 
population and aroused suspicion. 

In the context of Fascist ideology, resistance is often a (masculine) defensive 
strategy. In an early justification of the Regime that appeared in the Freudian 
Rivista di psicologia, an Italian experimental psychologist mapped out a distinction 
between communist violence (a splitting or splintering of the state/body/ego, a 
dissolution), and fascist violence (an internal front of resistance). The terms would 
appear to be consistent with a general meta-psychological vocabulary. At the same 
time, however, “resistance” is employed in the Rivista article in an everyday sense 
where martial metaphors bleed into the lived practices of the body.° By stiffening 
itself against the onslaught of the red flood (to borrow Klaus Theweleit’s term), the 
fascist body resists the diasporic, westward, palingenic wandering that is also 
encoded in the racial stereotypes of psychoanalysis as a Jewish (and black) science, 
born in the East and transmitted, like an illness, to the West. 


° T use this term because of its uncanny appearance in a number of important German 
accounts of the Italian or Mediterranean quality for “absorption” of lived reality. See Walter 
Benjamin’s use of the term in his essay, ““Neapal” (314); and Kracauer 254-55 and passim. 
® Vulterini wrote: “nella realta storica, il Fascismo non é che la continuazione 
dell’interventismo del 1914-15; sono gli stessi fasci di combattimento che, a guerra finita, 
contro il pericolo del dissolvimento interno si oganizzano a formare il fronte interno di 
resistenza” (177). 


148 Karen Pinkus 


As a metaphor illness often takes on the characteristics of a racial mutiny 
against the white body. A manual of Italian colonialist medicine explains: “It has 
been well known for a long time that the origin of infectious diseases may be 
attributed to contagion by inferior organisms that inhabit individuals like 
parasites’(Giordano 45). Moreover, Italy had to understood itself as a country 
particularly vulnerable to such contagion because of its many ports and the lack of 
a unified body to police them. Mussolini’s bureaucracy offered the possibility of a 
national prophylaxis, as in 1929 protocols were finally established for verifying the 
sanitary conditions of boats calling in Italian ports. Nevertheless, fear of foreign 
disorder and penetration formed a crucial part of medical discourse on infectious 
diseases. 

Racial literature often tended to posit the black/Jew as relatively insensitive 
compared with the white (a determination which accounts for the historical 
necessity of the black’s subjugation to white races); yet, paradoxically, the black 
was understood to be highly receptive to diseases (against which the white tends to 
exhibit a high degree of resistance — a myth intrinsic to the rhetoric of medical 
pamphlets distributed to potential colonists). It is clear what such myths were able 
to accomplish from a cultural standpoint — they helped to naturalize white 
domination in part through supplanting “inferior” and superstitious modes of 
treatment with “superior” Italian (or more generally, Western) medical practices, 
as they served to encourage wary colonists to brave climactic and geographic 
hardships. (Such explanations do not, however, dispose of an essential duplicity 
within race-thinking.) 

From a culturalist perspective, medical discourse that apparently reflects on 
race, may actually reflect on class within the Italian peninsula. A manual for 
colonists notes that the most important factor for good health in Africa is 
maintaining proper hygiene of the skin. “The bath, aside from representing an 
element of the greatest necessity for avoiding sweat and other products of cutaneous 
secretion, also serves to cool the body, granting a sense of well-being” (Giordano 
37-38). The manual notes that ideally, one should change one’s undergarments 
frequently--if possible after every sweat. It is clear that this level of hygiene was 
enjoyed by only the highest strata of Italian society back home, so the advice 
offered represents a cultural fantasy rather than a lived practice. Whites may not be 
suited to do any kind of physical labor in the colonies, and in any case, they should 
definitely avoid working with fires or cooking, the manual continues. Whites who 
undertake intellectual labor should dedicate themselves to several hours of activity 
per day in order to stay in good form and overcome the laziness that tends to 
overtake one in the colonies. Suggested activities include walks, golf, horseback 
riding, sailing and tennis. This text was published in 1930, at a period when few 
Italian homes had their own indoor baths, and in any case, frequency of bathing was 
perceived in direct proportion to class status. Moreover, the legislated break from 
manual labor, the suggested activities and the particular sports listed represent 
distinctly bourgeois living conditions, displaced, however, from an ideology of class 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 149 


to one of race. Medical discourse supports by other means the discourse of decrees 
such as one generated in 1935 that guaranteed economic unequality between blacks 
and whites in AOI by legislating that blacks must perform any manual task assigned 
to them. The question of forced labor remained vexed within the Fascist hierarchy, 
and a long-standing rhetoric of medicine and race served to bolster and legitimize 
incipient colonialist policies. 

If the Italian worker could transform himself into a bourgeois, simply by 
moving “down there,” he would also find his body transformed into a “white” body, 
a body capable of the “resistance” that holds a key place in the formation of 
bourgeois sexuality. The tropics were long associated with venereal diseases. 
Medical treatises suggested that colonists take precautions to ensure victims remain 
abstinent by keeping them busy with work, sports, and so on, “but for those who are 
unable to resist the priapism of those hot climates [terre ardenti_], the easy love of 
those black Venuses, or the prostitutes of various races and nationalities from the 
cesspools of a thousand cities that come to invade the colonies, for those individuals 
we must provide instruction about how to avoid contagion by venereal 
diseases”(Giordano 115). Resistance appears ambiguous in this context, as in many 
of the texts analyzed by Klaus Theweleit where sexuality (coded as feminine) in 
general opposes itself to the masculine work of the state, and yet the very failure to 
resist also serves as an important alibi against homosexuality or impotence. 


II. The Reception of Freud and the Unconscious 

During the 30s, for obvious reasons, Italy experienced a cultural abjection of the 
body of Freud: the racial “other,” the Austrian, the shaman of the unconscious (a 
realm of “blackness,” “darkness,” marked in the geography of the imagination, like 
Africa, as lying “down there” [/aggizi]). In fact, during the Fascist ventennio, Freud 
was known primarily through a small number of highly reductive versions of his 
theories, in which his “obsessive concentration on sexuality,” his “determinism” and 
“pessimism” marked him as the exemplary black/J ew.’ The work of Sander Gilman, 
and most recently his book Freud, Race and Gender, treats the cultural association 
of degeneracy and disease with the “curative” techniques of psychoanalysis itself, 
encoded in the obsessive motif of the body of Freud the Jew. In turn, as Gilman has 
often observed, racial science tended to conflate the Jewish body with the black 
body. Although Gilman writes primarily about Germany and Austria (in relation to 
which Italy would figure as a “Southern” nation), the reception of Freud and 
psychoanalysis in Italy often paralleled the situation to the North, thanks to the 
popularity of authors like Otto Weininger, and to the positivist anthropological 
tradition exemplified by Lombroso, Menegazza and others. It is not so important, 
then, to distinguish the Italian racialization of psychoanalysis from German or more 


’ For anti-Freudianism, see, for example: Giudetti; Bragaglia; Guerriero, “II Dottor Freud”; 
Petrucci; Meldini. 


150 Karen Pinkus 


general European contexts, but rather, to examine how Italy’s particular relation 
with the body of the racial other intersects with a broad and philosophical resistance 
to the very idea, the topology, the economy, of the unconscious. 

To speak of a cultural resistance is, of course, to speak from within the 
discourse of psychoanalysis itself, to employ a term whose inevitability is always 
foreclosed by the very act of writing about the unconscious. Freud’s defensive 
language in a wide variety of texts always already presupposes resistance; or better, 
resistance is inscribed within psychoanalysis as law. In specific terminology, 
resistance (Widerstand) pertains to the technologies invented by the analysts to 
obstruct access to the unconscious. As Laplanche and Pontalis suggest, resistance 
enters the vocabulary of Freudian psychoanalysis almost ab initio as a duality 
inasmuch as Freud’s early methods imply an overcoming of his own patients’ 
resistance (primarily through hypnotic suggestion) and an overcoming of resistance 
on the part of the medical and psychological community; resistance is thus 
incorporated into the fabric of analytic technique as an essential pull, a drive, that 
shapes the very morphology of the Freudian unconscious and of transference 
(Laplanche and Pontalis 394-97). 

Resistance is obduration, a pull back, but it is also duration, defense, a barrier 
against the assault of exterior forces that assault the “healthy” ego in a meta- 
psychological sense. In resisting psychoanalysis at a cultural level, Italy would seem 
to attempt to maintain its ego against the “split” that is the troubling subject of 
Freud’s last, unfinished essay; but Italy also resists a full transference and remains 
subjected to an interminable analysis in spite of itself. Freud’s 1937 essay “Analysis 
Terminable and Interminable” might be read as a defense (a resistance) against 
resistance (a defense). Freud mediates between a broad cultural desire for an 
absolute cure, and the elastic realities of psychical makeup. At the outer limit of 
resistance lies a biological imperative: 


We often have the impression that with the wish for a penis and the masculine protest we 
have penetrated through all the psychological strata and have reached bedrock, and that thus 
our activities are at an end. This is probably true, since for the psychical field, the biological 
field does in fact play the part of the underlying bedrock. The repudiation of femininity can 
be nothing else than a biological fact, a part of the great riddle of sex. It would be hard to say 
whether and when we have succeeded in mastering this factor in an analytic treatment. We 
can only console ourselves with the certainty that we have given the person analyzed every 
possible encouragement to reexamine and alter his attitude to it. 

(Freud, “Analysis Terminable and Interminable” 252-53) 


Ironically, it is precisely a biological-positivist argument that serves to place a 
fantasized “Italian natural character” out of the reach of the very perturbations that 
psychoanalysis would cure (in an albeit circumscribed manner). Furthermore, the 
nationalization of the construct we will call ‘an Italian ego” in some way 
presupposes a bracketing off of issues of gender. Or rather, the “normal” ego of 
Fascist ideology, is precisely, a masculine ego, whose gender, however, is 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 151 


putatively shaped, not by any relation with childhood experiences of castration 
anxiety, but rather, by its affirmative response to a series of fascist appeals. A, 
precisely, psychoanalytic reading of the fascist subject, such as the complex 
(interminable?) analysis proposed by Klaus Theweleit in the two volumes of Male 
Fantasies, might indeed reveal the existence of the very perturbations that Italian 
anti-Freudians reject in theory. But for now, it is important to take Fascist discourse 
at its word, that is, as manifest content, and to understand how the gendering of the 
(pathological) subject in the passage cited above, already lies outside of the 
parameters of Fascist ideology, before we have even begun to examine questions 
of what it might mean for an individual analysis to be terminated. Fascism 
acknowledges sexual difference, or rather, female inferiority, as part of its 
groundwork. But difference — in the rhetoric of Fascism — is construed in absolutely 
categorical terms whereas in the passage above, difference emerges as a derivative 
from a fundamental experience centered around the phallus. In Fascist thought, 
resistance develops as a simultaneously masculine and national trait, while in 
Freudian thought, both males and females are capable of resistance in theoretically 
equal measures. Paradoxically, while Freud overtly acknowledges difference within 
the paradigms of resistance and transference, difference is neither quantitative (in 
temporal terms), nor does it alter the structural morphology of these phenomena. 


III. The Nationalized Unconscious: A Case Study 

In an article from the late 1920s outlining the most elementary differences between 
the conscious and the unconscious, the Italian Freudian Gian Carlo Ferrari focussed 
on a case study, the cause celébre of Canella/Sig. Bruneri. Both the medical case 
(Ferrari’s article was published before the resolution of the judicial case) itself and 
the narrative in which it is inscribed by Ferrari for a specialized public of 
psychologists, are interesting inasmuch as they delimit the boundaries that shape the 
unconscious and the subterranean forces that make of it a simultaneously racialized 
and degenerate space. 

During the late 20s, Ferrari recounts, a man was arrested for stealing a metal 
vase of flowers from a cemetery. He was brought to a Turin clinic, claiming to 
suffer from total amnesia. He was covered with minor scars, and, more importantly, 
his cranium appeared to have been shattered. After a prolonged treatment, doctors 
had not made any notable progress. The clinic decided to publish a photograph of 
the Gentleman-Without-Identity in La domenica del corriere under the rubric, “Chi 
V’ha visto?”.® Within a short time, the doctors received a visit from a war widow, a 


* It is interesting to note that at the time of this writing, “Chi I’ha visto?” is also the title of 
an immensely popular weekly television program in Italy, modeled on, but rather different 
from “America’s Most Wanted.” The program “Chi I’ha visto?” — the subject of much debate 
among intellectuals — would appear to link up with our discussion in at least one 
fundamental respect: The producers travel, more often than not, to some provincial town, on 
the borders of Italy, to investigate unsolved cases of missing persons, mistaken identity, 


152 Karen Pinkus 


Signora Canella, who insisted the: the man in the grainy photograph bore an 
uncanny physical resemblance to her husband, Giulio Canella, a philosophy 
professor from Verona who had been missing in action for over a decade. In 1914, 
Professor Giulio Canella had married his first cousin Giulia (twin souls!), daughter 
of an aristrocrat with vast land holdings in South America. The couple had two 
children before the celebrated Professor was called to arms. He was last seen on 
November 25th, 1916 on a battle field on the Macedonian front, suffering from a 
grave head wound and apparently at the end of his life. 

After witnessing an apparently joyful reunion between husband and wife, the 
Turin clinic dispatched the patient to his “good family.” A few days later, however, 
the clinic received a second, equally certain response from Signora Bruneri, who 
recognized, in the photograph, her highly iniquitous and irregular husband, 
currently on the lam from a prison term. After a brief investigation, police, working 
with clinicians, officially recognized the amnesiac as Mario Martino Bruneri. 

The Canella family — including various relatives who found themselves in 
agreement with the widow Canella — fully accepted “the patient” as their own kin. 
The fact that the nameless man’s speech patterns and overall cultural preparation 
were highly inconsistent with the character of an erudite scholar, was apparently not 
problematic. As Ferrari suggests in his analysis, the entire family was fully 
persuaded by the unconscious desire of the widow to retrieve her dead husband. At 
the same time, however, the claims of the Bruneri family were much more 
objectively plausible. Clearly, this second case of recognition — the “conscious” 
case — corresponded to the concrete facts of an individual who had evaded a 
traditional family structure, a slippery con-man not unlike Thomas Mann’s Felix 
Krull, whose very behavior calls into question middle-class values of stability, 
work, and social organization. As Ferrari suggests, then, the Canella family “sought, 
with the richness and minuteness of details, to push the nameless man toward a 
retrieval of his mnemonic patrimony, lost or buried in his unconscious” (Ferrari 39). 

And in fact, the con-man was able to physically adapt to the collective 
unconscious wish of the Canella family, which corresponded to his (conscious) wish 
to assume a new identity in a new city. The case would seem to extend beyond a 
simple act of conscious trickery inasmuch as the nameless man had been in the 
clinic for over a year before the photographs were published, and had somehow 
been able to fool the clinicians into believing that he exhibited specific signs of 
psychopathological behavior. In fact, Ferrari believes that the patient actually 
suffered from symptoms of “receptivity,” and “authentic passivity” that made him 
susceptible to the “suggestions” of the widow Canella. In the relation of suggestion, 
then, the con-man/patient assumed the position of femininity. The widow, in turn, 


anonymous or seemingly haphazard criminal acts. It would seem that the mobile camera of 
“Chi l’ha visto?” offers the urban viewer, the viewer in the center, a “genuine” view of the 
margins of Italian culture, the “dark” “underside” of Italy. Something like a “national sub- 
[sic!] conscious.” 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 153 


was completely convinced that her husband was still alive and she managed to 
impose her conviction on the “porous” Bruneri. Dr. Ferrari uses the case as proof 
of the existence of the unconscious (with no mention of the preconscious which 
would certainly problematize his argument), which nevertheless, is only accessed 
through a feminized, pathological individual, an imbroglione whose social position 
lies outside of the world of normal, bourgeois relations. 

Because the pictures and the facts of the case were widely published, a broad 
public consensus contributed to the buildup of the unconscious (mis)identification 
of Bruneri. Thus, although Ferrari, unlike his anti-Freudian contemporaries, does 
not deny the existence of the unconscious, through this particular case, he 
nevertheless redeems the “realm of darkness” to the degree that he makes of it the 
site of a healthy, culturally-sanctioned desire, the desire of a war widow to be 
reunited in a monogamous and “good” marriage. In fact, widows were one of the 
few groups of women granted extraordinary rights by Mussolini under the edicts 
which revoked female suffrage and severely limited women’s employment. Fascism 
found, in the figure of the widow, the ideal embodiment of the “female masochist,” 
and so, it is comprehensible that a broad cultural consensus might seek to reward 
the long-suffering Signora Canella in some material way.” 

Ferrari ends his case study with the following observation: “And if we were 
able to laugh, in spite of the sadness of this case, we would like to point out the 
unwitting cooperation of so many layers of public opinion, which seem to demand 
a ‘happy ending’ to this drama. This is what happened, and what still does happen 
in the public sphere [arene _popolari], and it is a small sign of the fundamental and 
ingenuous goodness our of public [popolo]” (Ferrari 14). What is interesting about 
this final attention to the “popularization” of the concept of the unconscious is the 
suggestion, however oblique, that fundamentally the Italian national character 
transcends the porousness of the pathological state narrated in this case study, and 
instead, through an imposition of its collective will (in the various “layers of public 
opinion”), pushes indefatigably toward a cooperative cure. In contrast to the 
pessimistic, tragic, self-defeating character assigned in popular literature to the 
Black/Jew, the Italian national character first expresses its unconscious in terms of 
a normalizing, “healthy” manifest content — the desire to reunite a woman with her 
long-lost soldier-husband — and then sutures up the very opening which allowed 
such an expression to show itself in the light of day. Here ends Ferrari’s case study. 

Several months after the legal identification of Mario Bruneri, Signora Canella 
continued to search for more definitive proof. She produced testimony by a 
functionary from the Italian mission in Berlin. The functionary recalled meeting a 


° For rights extended to widows, see Chanese; de Grazia; and the pamphlet Che cosa é la 
carta del lavoro? 


154 Karen Pinkus 


man in Germany who held a piece of paper bearing the words, “Italian prisoner, 
Captain Giulio Canella, amnesiac, to be returned to the Italian border.” 
Nevertheless, a court of appeals in Turin confirmed the initial identification of 
Bruneri after several more months and the trickster was sentenced to two years in 
prison. After Bruneri was released from prison, he was met by Signora Canella, who 
stubbornly continued to recognize her husband. The couple left in 1933 for Rio de 
Janiero where they lived out their lives in marital serenity. 


IV. The Racialized Cure: A Case Study 

In the sanguine national popular culture described by Ferrari at the end of his 
article on the articulation of the unconscious, it might be possible to read a buried 
subtext in which the black/Jewish “other” is intrinsically associated with both 
pathology and cure. I would now like to examine a fantasy in which a female — 
again, an Italian widow — desires the diseased and curative other. Her desire — 
which, precisely, as desire must remained unfulfilled in the narrative I am about to 
invoke — is inscribed in a discourse of liberal tolerance. 

A popular woman’s novel of the 1930s called Sambadu by the prolific novelist 
who wrote under the pseudonym “Mura” recreates the analytic situation in an 
unexpected narrative context. The heroine, Silvia, living alone in a hotel 
approximately a year after the death of her husband, slips in the bathroom and 
suffers an immense, bloody wound. Her calls for help are answered by another hotel 
guest whom the woman has previously known only as “il negro.” It turns out, 
however, that this negro, a Nigerian named Sambadu, speaks a highly articulate 
Italian and is a professional man: an engineer. This coincidence that Sambadt is 
entirely suitable in every way except for his blackness makes him the perfect stand- 
in for the analyst in this narrative. 

As in Sander Gilman’s reading of Freud’s reception, the fact that the Black/Jew 
represents himself as a rational scientist is of the utmost importance. Gilman 
stresses Freud’s “scientific gaze,” particularly in Moses and Monotheism, as an alibi 
against his Jewish identity, and so against the potential racialization (and dismissal) 
of psychoanalysis itself. Without hesitation, Sambadt enters the hotel room of the 
widow Silvia and begins to clean the white woman’s wound. “A more scrupulous 
medication is necessary,” he says, “but I don’t dare touch the wound with iodine: 
I don’t think you would be able to resist the burning without screaming. . .” 
Resistance, then, is used in the sense of a positive and willful defense against the 
invasion of the internal space, the dark space of the black/Jew, the unconscious. 
Having washed and dressed the wound with various handkerchiefs, Sambadu offers 
to sit by the bed of the white woman in silence. After a time, the following dialogue 
takes place: 


Silvia: “I would like to make a confession....A confession which might even disappoint you, 
but which is most sincere and which deserves your pardon precisely because it is uttered in 
all frankness. I have always been afraid of. . . 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 155 


Sambadu: “Go ahead and say it: of blacks.” 

Silvia: “Of Africans. I have never been close to one. I believed they were savages incapable 
of any form of civility: It seemed to me that they could not feel, reason, or live like we do: 
the difference of race, of language made them so strange that I thought I would not 
understand them even if they were to speak in Italian. Now I am amazed and even disturbed. 


All of my convictions have been shaken.” 
(MURA 12-13) 


In this brief exchange, Silvia’s shift from a racial to an ethnic label is anything but 
casual. Her insistence on ethnicity as a category for cultural (in)tolerance, parallels 
the fascist privileging of Italian national character in the face of racial and regional 
diversity. Commonsense science of the 1930s tended to privilege ethnic categories 
over racial ones, inasmuch as racial science is based on quantitative factors or 
physically verifiable characteristics, such as cranial measurements, but does not 
embrace humanity as a totality. For the highly influential Italian philosopher Julius 
Evola, for example, psychoanalysis with its fascination for the “dark” “underside” 
of the psyche, splits the subject apart and shatters the totality, the tutto. Moreover, 
the Italian psychological community followed Otto Weininger in perpetuating the 
notion that Jews are racially heterogeneous but ethnically homogeneous. So, 
conversely, in aryanizing Italians, Fascist science insisted upon racial homogeneity 
in the face of “regional” (or what could be called “ethnic”’) difference. 

Through the popular press, Italians came to be aware of regional, tribal, 
linguistic and cultural differences among Africans. Ethnic literature, while 
promoting a kind of appreciation and tolerance through the description of 
difference, often gave the sense of a fragmented and disorganized black social body. 
Such information served propagandistic purposes and performed utilitarian cultural 
work inasmuch as the chaos of Africa could be made to contrast sharply with 
nationalist and unifying rhetoric in Italy. Moreover, regardless of the level of 
interest aroused by ethnographic writing, Italian readers could comfort themselves 
with the knowledge that the Ethiopians were traditionally considered “the third 
race” after Caucasians and Mongoloids, the ur-African race. Indeed, Abyssinian 
means “mixture of various people.” As cultural work, the fact that these “ur-people” 
came to live under Italian domination helped both to elevate the nobility of black 
Italian subjects in AOI above other Africans and, simultaneously, to solidify the 
crucial difference between black and white. 

To return, then, to the “tolerant” Italian in Sambadu, as in the situation of 
Freudian analysis, the “patient” begins a process of transference through a 
confession that implicates the analyst himself. Silvia’s desire for the analyst 
Sambadit creates a situation of social conflict that is only temporarily suspended 
when they are alone. And her desire is fed only by his distance from her, by the very 
“savage” qualities which she inscribes in his blackness, and which seem in absolute 
contradiction with his scientific gaze. 

The morning following the initial meeting between the patient and the 


156 Karen Pinkus 


black/analyst, a white medical doctor comes to look at the widow Silvia’s wound. 
The doctor is amused to find the exorbitant number of handkerchiefs which 
Sambadit had improvised in his excessive desire to provide aid to the ailing patient. 
“This is medication without economy, the medication of a savage . . . ,” the white 
doctor laughs upon seeing the bandages. But as the doctor is about to tear off the 
bandages stuck to her skin, the patient stops him, fearfully exclaiming, “I would 
rather have you cut the handkerchief all around the wound, but leave the little piece 
of linen, until a new scab forms by itself’ (20-21). Laughing, again, at the 
cowardice of his patient, the doctor imposes his superior, masterful wisdom. 

In this novel, then, the analytic scene becomes a moment of encounter between 
the black/analyst with his excessive, uneconomical and savage methods of cure, and 
a female patient, a white widow with a gaping wound; but there is also a secondary 
encounter between the black doctor and the white doctor that parallels the resistance 
to psychoanalysis itself. With one painful tear, the white doctor would remove the 
bandages and re-open the wound so that it can be properly cleaned and healed with 
all due expediency. The analytic cure, on the other hand, requires a long process of 
continual “scab-formation,” the building up of resistance over time, through 
successive encounters with the Black/Jew. Sambadu proposes marriage to Silvia; 
clearly, we learn, he loves not only Silvia as a totality but also as white woman. 
Nevertheless, at the end of the novel, the two will go their separate ways. Their 
union is unthinkable in Silvia’s social circles. The lurid watercolor cover of the 
novel portrays a “resistant” Silvia with her arms crossed in a gesture of self- 
protection against the advances of the “Doctor” Sambadi, his chest naked, his head 
framed by the palm trees of “darkest” Africa (figure 4). The cure is cut off, as the 
narrative abruptly curtails the flow of desire that has filled the novel up to this point. 
To the degree that the pulp romance mirrors (female, masochistic) desire, the 
ending is of no particular consequence, since a constant level of stimulation has 
been maintained throughout the meat (the pulp) of the book. The stopping of the 
flow of this desire is inevitable in any experience of reading, so whether the relation 
ends in a conventional comic resolution (marriage) or simply fades out in cinematic 
fashion (as with the prudent departure of Sambadt from the bourgeois residence) 
bears little weight. 

Sambadi represents “black medicine,” a medicine based on superstition, that 
can only be guided toward positivism and rationality through the colonizing 
process. The Ethiopian will put up tremendous resistance to white medicine, one 
doctor from Genoa noted, and the only way to make a diagnosis is to send an 
indigenous worker to the patient’s home to make inquiries. “They never tell you 
their symptoms because they believe it is improper to discuss certain matters with 
an outsider... . The patients themselves will tell you, ‘You must do this or that,’ 
and you must always pretend to agree with them, pretend to follow their orders; 
How many injections of distilled water I have had to give in order to keep them 
happy! What theatrics in order to find the right remedy! Every once in a while they 
ask to be released for four days in order to take the ‘Abyssinian cure’; and you may 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 157 


as well appear enthusiastic; because if you contradict them they were certainly 
become stubborn; but if you give your approval, it is likely that out of laziness they 
will decide to forego the difficult journey in search of the witch doctor” (Besozzi 
28). The doctor-patient relationship appears to mimic that between the analyst and 
analysand, in particular with regard to the temporal element. Another doctor who 
has been practicing “guerilla medicine” in Gore notes that his sister sent him a 
cutting from a chestnut tree of his native Liguria. “But I was mistaken once again. 
The chestnut grows too slowly; and it is most improbable that it will survive in this 
climate. It will die of consumption. . . . In short, it will never give us shade, not even 
in a hundred years.” When the white “witch doctor” (he is called in these terms 
because, having set up a radiography room in the hospital, he performs “magic 
skeleton dances” for the people of Gore) comes to Africa, he gives up access to the 
latest technologies, the speeded-up course of European medicine. In recompense, 
he experiences the pleasure of the colonizer, the missionary, who overcomes added 
resistance to arrive at the cure. He can no longer wait for the chestnut tree to grow, 
he is beginning from the beginning, without the residual buildup of civilization. We 
can now see the chestnut tree as a metaphor for the problematic relation between 
time and a certain kind of cure. Analysis, it is clear, represents an “Eastern” 
mentality for a “backward” Italy that looks, during the 30s, toward the West for 
models of speed, modernization, and rationalization of production. In Fordism or 
Taylorism, for example, Italians found a theoretically desirable discourse that 
would, in every conceivable way, mitigate against the interminable “scab- 
formation” of psychoanalysis itself. If psychoanalysis is anti-productivity, anti- 
Fascist and anti-autarchic (as an import from “the East’), it can have no place in the 
national market of the New Roman Empire. 


V. Self-Sameness of the Conscious and Unconscious 

Let us now leave the Italy of heightened racial consciousness, the Italy of the 
African campaigns, and consider the more “whitened” period of de-colonization in 
the politically conservative years prior to the boom.'° Psychoanalysis, while by no 
means popular, enjoys a discrete following among certain intellectuals. What will 
become of the unconscious, now that it can no longer be explicitly linked with 
“black medicine” or with a racialized logic; now that dreams of Africa have receded 
into a haze of nostalgia? The alterity of the unconscious has always been a key 
philosophical issue, and as we know, Freud himself wavered on the question of the 
“double inscription” of content, the status of the fractional bar that cordons off the 
realm “down there.” A popular women’s magazine of the 50s explains the workings 
of the “science” for its readers, under the presumption that they will not have first- 
hand experience (fm.m. 20). The unconscious — indistinct in this popularized 
description from our own knowledge of its content — can be reduced to a set of 


'°For Italian-African relations in this period, see Del Boca. 


158 Karen Pinkus 


repressed infantile memories. Although the act of bringing these memories to 
consciousness is difficult and encounters resistance, the trained psychoanalyst (of 
which there are admittedly few in Italy) may achieve aletheia, either by stimulating 
the patient to free association or by the exercise of certain techniques such as 
hypnosis or the administration of truth serum. While the model of the repressed 
memory does appear cohesive in the context of this brief article, the author slips 
almost imperceptibly from the model to a logic of the unconscious in which any 
content at all that is refused (negated) resides in a form that is apparently not subject 
to any mechanisms of condensation or distortion, but simply exists in actual form. 
A tinted photograph (figure 5) is used to illustrate the following scenario: “This girl 
loves a married man. Driven by her insane passion she decides to meet him at his 
home. She would rather not go and her innate honesty rebels, but in vain. She goes. 
On the way she is hit by an automobile and ends up in the hospital. According to 
psychoanalysis the girl was pushed toward the encounter with the automobile by her 
own unconscious [subcosciente], to ‘prevent’ her from consummating her sin. Since 
the unconscious acts without our knowledge, the girl will blame the driver in good 
faith.” When we view the photograph that accompanies this explanatory piece, in 
which the unconscious is described as a kind of storage room for what is rejected 
by consciousness, we see in clear and melodramatic terms that the victim of this car 
accident, a modern girl potentially not unlike the readers of Grand Hotel, inevitably 
suffers the consequences of amorality. Although the girl will blame the driver “in 
good faith,” the viewer cannot help but notice that her unconscious is showing. 

The photograph reminds me of one of the episodes from the 1953 film Villa 
borghese during which a wealthy married woman arranges to meet her lover in the 
park in order to break off their relations. As she waits on a bench, the bourgeois 
neurotic reads a book on the unconscious in French and when the lover arrives, he 
suggests that her morose character has been influenced by psychoanalysis and the 
Freudian subconscious [sic!]. This pronouncement is accompanied by discordant 
music. After the lover abandons the woman, explaining that he has been meaning 
to inform her that he has decided to marry another, she mistakenly transfers her 
anger onto her son whom she slaps. While this gesture is “subconscious,” it is also 
highly transparent, like the woman flung about by the passing car. 


VI. Nostalgia for Difference 

By conflating the ontology of the unconscious with access to its secrets, this Grand 
Hotel article implicitly upholds a logic of the “black” analyst who both performs 
and possesses this knowledge, who embraces both pathology and cure. Of course, 
this logic remains stripped of any explicit racial thinking. What is particularly 
interesting about the article--aside from its admission that Italy is indeed “behind” 
many other countries in its research in the field of psychoanalysis--is the fact that 
in this popular, reductive version of the psyche, the conceptual model used to 
describe the bringing to consciousness of unconscious content, and the conceptual 
model of retrieval of content stored in the conscious are the same. Both infantile 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 159 


(repressed) memories and adult (conscious) memories derive from real events such 
that the unconscious is separated by degrees but is not differential. No wonder the 
unconscious literally slips up! 

Since the post-Fascist era, psychoanalysis and racial thinking have lost an 
essential connection. Freud’s popularity waxes and wanes, and revivals of classic 
techniques are heralded (not just in Italy, of course) by the popular press, just as 
Freud is parodied in certain elements of popular culture. Whatever its status of the 
moment, analysis as it is now understood would seem to be divorced from questions 
of racial and national identity. Yet it is precisely because such connections remain 
embedded in older historical narratives about psychoanalysis that they deserve 
attention in the broader context of cultural studies. The very “whiteness” of analysis 
in the 1950s cartoon variant contains within it buried seeds of racial thinking that 
have become literally “blanked out.” It is not my hope to “blacken” analysis, but 
rather, to suggest ways in which Italian culture has tended to push racial thinking 
to the margins when in fact it deeply conditions both theory and practice about 
Freud and post-Freudianism. 

Although the case of Dr. Bruneri and the desires of the white widow Silvia 
belong to past history, they also reflect deeply entrenched narratives of resistance 
which are still played out in current cultural fantasies. Perhaps the end of 
psychoanalysis in Italy is eerily announced by the “Southern” and “black” figure of 
Armando Verdiglione who practiced Berlusconi style self-promotion as a so-called 
Lacanian analyst in the 1970s and early 1980s. Verdiglione’s bizarre glitterato, 
showbiz, psycho-babble “analytic center” in Milan bears uncanny parallels to the 
media empire developed by the former Prime Minister of Italy. In Verdiglione’s 
“analytic” situation, the resistance of the consumer is overcome by the promise of 
a hedonistic space; desire itself is interminable only because various “products” of 
psychoanalysis (glossy magazines, books, parties, conferences, meetings, sexual 
encounters, and so on) are both attractive and available, according to the logical 
fusion of psychoanalysis and capitalism. But like so many of Berlusconi’s 
colleagues who operated under the apparent rules of late capitalism in Italy, 
Verdiglione now sits in a prison cell, waiting out a (terminable) sentence. The 
“sanguine national character” posited by the early Italian Freudian Ferrari as proof 
of the unconscious, and yet, paradoxically, as a form of resistance against the same, 
seems to have reached its apogee. 


VII. Footnote on the Bruneri Case 

In 1960, the Bruneri case was briefly reopened when a relative (by marriage) of the 
Canella family, travelled to Brazil and brought back new information to the Italian 
press. This relative had the complete confidence of the tenacious Signora Canella, 
who continued to maintain that the man from the Turin clinic was her missing 
husband, Professor Canella. As we recall, the couple had relocated to Rio during 
the early 30s, along with several children from the “first bed” of the marriage 


160 Karen Pinkus 


between Signora Canella and the undisputed Professor. During the period between 
1933 and 1941, the man had subjected himself to hypnosis and other forms of 
“cure,” to help him “reconstruct his personality” (Di Bello). In 1941, the amnesiac 
died, and was mourned in his obituary as Professor Giulio Canella, father of Rita 
and Giuseppe, and of Elisa, Camillo and Amalia, the latter three products of the 
“second marriage bed.” Although her five children were not considered equal under 
Italian law, the widow Canella planned to leave her considerable estate to all five 
in equal parts. 

Many Italians who had been alive during the 30s recalled the affair which had 
divided Italy. Just about the time that the Canella family member returned from 
Brazil, a judicial committee came into possession of five letters signed Mario 
Bruneri, in which the patient confessed to dissimulating his identity from the first 
moment he entered the psychological clinic. On the other hand, experts determined 
that the handwriting in the letters was clearly identical to that of the (late?) Prof. 
Canella. 

At this time, the widow of the missing Signor Bruneri, also came forward to 
declare that she had received “money . . . a lot of money” from the widow Canella 
to keep quiet about the true identity of the amnesiac in the Turin clinic. A 
subsequent telegram to a Veronese judicial committee from the widow Canella 
denied these payments in absolute terms. After so much time, it was difficult for 
anyone to recall who had financed the six trials, two of which were heard before the 
Chancellor’s court, involving Bruneri. As in the case of Martin Guerre, “sanguine” 
public opinion pushed towards a happy resolution, in spite of a nagging intuition 
that the more distressing claims of the widow Bruneri appeared plausible. When the 
events the case were renarrated in 1960, in the context of the “boom,” all sense of 
a space delimiting conscious and unconscious has been collapsed, and indeed, the 
mysterious patient has become a cipher, not for psychological or psychiatric 
disturbance, but for paternity and money. 


University of Southern California 


Works Cited 

Accerboni, Anna Maria, ed. La cultura psicoanalitica. Trieste: Edizioni Studio Tesi, 1985. 

Bhabha, Homi. “Of Mimicry and Man: The Ambivalence of Colonial Discourse” October 
(Spring 1984): 125-33. 

Balmary, Marie. Psychoanalyzing Psychoanalysis. Freud and the Hidden Fault of the 
Father. Trans. Ned Lukacher. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1979. 

Bellanova, P. and A. Le due Gradive: notizie sull’attivita della Societa Psicoanalitica 
italiana (1932-1982). Roma: CEPI, 1982. 

Benjamin, Walter. “Neapal.” Gesammelte Schriften. Ed. Rolf Tiedemann. Frankfurt am 
Main: Suhrkamp Verlag, 1972. Vol. 4. 

Besozzi, Tommaso. “Dal radiologo come a teatro.” L’europeo (May 9, 1954) 18-19. 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 161 


. “Tl medico che sogna |’Europa.” L ‘europeo (May 16, 1954). 

Bragaglia, A. G. “Lo psicoanalista.” Critica fascista 22 (1932): 437-39. 

Chanese, Glora. Storia sociale della donna in Italia (1809-1980). Napoli: Guida Editore, 
1980. 

Che cosa é la carta del lavoro? Sec. ed. Roma: Edizioni del Diritto del Lavoro, 1928. 

David. Michel. La psicoanalisi nella cultura italiana. Torino: Boringhieri, 1966. 

De Ciutiss, M. Le razze umane. Biblioteca Popolare. Napoli: Tip. Edit. Dell’indicatore 
generale del commercio, 1896. 

de Grazia, Victoria. How Fascism Ruled Women. Berkeley: U of California P, 1991. 

Del Boca, Angelo. Gili italiani in Africa Orientale. Vol. IV: Nostalgia delle colonie. Roma- 
Bari: Laterza, 1984. 

De Man, Paul. The Resistance to Theory. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1986. 

De Peri, Francesco. “II medico e il folle: istituzione psichiatrica, sapere scientifico e pensiero 
medico fra Otto e Novecento.” Storia d'Italia. Annali 7. Malattia e medicina. Ed. 
Franco Della Porta. Torino: Einaudi, 1984. 

Del Guerra, Giorgio. Medicina etiopica: Leggende nate fra gli uomini dalla ‘faccia 
bruciata’. Milano: Del Saz & Filippini, 1938. 

Di Bello, Franco. “Sono ancora certo che lo smemorato non era Bruneri, ma Giulio Canella.” 
Corriere della sera (March 16, 1960): 7. 

Evola, Julius. Rivolta contro il mondo moderno. 1934. Roma: Edizioni Mediterranee, 1969. 

Ferrari, Gian Carlo. “““Coscienza’ e ‘subcoscienza’ nel ‘Caso Bruneri.’” Rivista di psicologia 
23 (1927): 36-44. 

f.m.m., “Che cos’é questa famosa psicanalisi?” Grand Hotel 490 (November 12, 1955): 20- 
21. 

Freud, Sigmund. “Analysis Terminable and Interminable” (1937). The Standard Edition of 
the Complete Psychological Works, V. XXIII. Trans. James Strachey. London: Hogarth 
Press, 1955. 

Galba, A. L’amante negro. Milan: International Publishing, n.d. 

Gilman, Sander. Freud, Race and Gender. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 

Giordano, Mario. Medicina ed igiene coloniale. Milan: Hoepli, 1930. 

Giudetti, Italo, “Il pessimismo é una malattia?” Rivista di psicologia 25 (1929): 51-87. 

Golden, Thelma. Black Male. Representations of Masculinity in Contemporary American 
Art. New York: Whitney Museum of American Art, 1994. 

Guerriero, Vittorio, “Il Dottor Freud.” // regime fascista (June 22, 1934). 

Kracauer, Siegfried. Theory of Film. The Redemption of Physical Reality. New York: Oxford 
UP, 1960. 

Kramer, Jane. “Letter from Europe” [on Verdiglione). The New Yorker (June 8, 1987): 88- 
101. 

Laplanche, Jean and J. B. Pontalis. The Language of Psychoanalysis. Trans. Donald 
Nicholson-Smith. New York: Norton, 1973. 

Marhaba, Sadi. Lineamenti della psicologia italiana. 1870-1945. Firenze: Giunti Barbera, 
1981. 

Mehlman, Jeffrey. Legacies of Antisemitism in France. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 
1983. 

Meldini, Piero, ed. Mussolini contro Freud. La psicoanalisi nella pubblicistica del fascismo. 
Firenze: Guaraldi, 1976. 


162 Karen Pinkus 


Mignemi, Adolfo. Jmmagine coordinata per un impero. Etiopia 1935-1936. Torino: 

Gruppo Editoriale Forma, 1983. 
. “Morale e psicanalisi in un discorso del papa.” I] messaggero di Roma (April 16, 

1953): 1. 

MURA. Sambadu. Milano: Casa Editrice Sonzogno, 1934. 

Petrucci, A. “Il demone della sessualita.” La difesa della razza 24 (1939): 27-31. 

Pinkus, Karen. Bodily Regimes: Italian Advertising Under Fascism. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1995. 

Richards, Barry. Images of Freud. Cultural Responses to Psychoanalysis. New York: St. 
Martin’s Press, 1989. 

Robinson, Paul. Freud and his Critics. Berkeley: U of California P, 1993. 

Roudinesco, Elisabeth. La bataille de cent ans. Paris: Editions Ramsay, 1982. 

Sandler, Joseph, ed. On Freud's “Analysis Terminable and Interminable.’’ New Haven: 
Yale UP, 1991. 

Stone, Jennifer. “Italian Freud: Gramsci, Giulia Schucht, and Wild Analysis.” October, vol. 
28 (1984): 104-124. 

Tarozzi, Giuseppe. La liberta umana e la critica del determinismo. Bologna: Zanichelli, 
1936. 

Theweleit, Klaus. Male Fantasies. Vol. I. Trans. Stephen Conway. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1987. 

Vulterini, Ettore. “Arditi comunisti e squadre d’azione fascista.” Rivista di psicologia 19 
(1922): 161-80. 

Weiss, Eduardo. Elementi di psicoanalisi. Pordenone: Edizioni Studio Tesi, 1985. 

. Sigmund Freud come consulente. Roma: Astrolabio, 1971. 


“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 163 


List of Plates 


Figure 1. “The Mulatto Is often Synonymous with Debauchery and Degeneration.” 
“Possessed Woman.” From La difesa della razza, Sept. 20, XVI, p. 31. 





164 Karen Pinkus 


Figure 2. “Ethiopian Medicine: Legends Born among the People of ‘Burned 
Faces.’” (Cover of a pamphlet that seems to embody a certain mode of 
association between “Jewish prophetism” and “black medicine.”’) 


MEDICINA 
ETIOPICA 


Prot, Dott. G. DEL GUERRA 
Docente di Storia della Medicine 





“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 165 


Figure 3 ““Black’ and ‘Jew’: Two American Types.” Reproduced from La difesa 
della razza (September 5, 1939): 7. 





166 Karen Pinkus 


Figure 4. Cover of the novel Sambadu with a “resistant” white widow and black 
“analyst.” 





“Black and Jew”: Race & Resistance to Psychoanalysis in Italy 167 


Figure 5. Melodramatic scene of the unconscious reproduced from f.m.m., “Che 
cos’é questa famosa psicanalisi?” Grand Hotel 490 (November 12, 1955): 20. 








an ? 7 
¥ 
, aT (ne 
4 
' I 
' 
, a 4 
- 
' , Sea 
oh ' : tal - 
} = a 


Rebecca West 


Lost in the Interstices: 
A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 


To Victoria Kirkham, with thanks. 


1. Why Study A Domestic Guidebook? 
This essay is more speculative than conclusive; in it, I describe and analyze a 
text that raises many questions the answers to which lie in a broad sociological 
and cultural investigation that I can only begin to open up in this piece. The text 
under examination is an Enciclopedia della donna, published in its sixth edition 
in 1950. It was, appropriately enough, plucked off the shelf of a small 
antiquarian bookshop in Florence by a woman friend and fellow Italianist whom 
I was visiting, and with whom I have often enjoyed browsing in such shops in 
Chicago, Philadelphia, and various Italian cities. Knowing of my interest in 
women’s culture (which she shares), she quite rightly thought that this book 
might be of some value to me, as I indeed immediately saw that it was, and so 
she very generously gave her “find” to me. Dipping in, I was struck by its 
curious pastiche of “high” political and theoretical, and “low” everyday and 
practical issues, its mixture of forward-looking, liberational rhetoric, and 
strongly traditional emphases on family and motherhood, and its astonishingly 
hybrid entries from “A” to “Z,” in which, for example, “Religione” follows 
“Reggipetto,” A number of questions filled my mind: When was the first edition 
of this volume published? Who were the people who served as the editors and 
contributors? For what audience of women readers was it intended? So far, I 
have been unable to answer most of these specific questions, and so it is that I 
offer the following discussion as a primarily descriptive first step and, possibly, 
as a stimulus to further investigation into the assumptions about and views of 
women that served to shape such guides to womanhood in the postwar years. ! 
Some general comments on the critical context in which I shall move are in 
order. First, it is clear that there is an obvious lacuna in scholarly work dedicated 
to women’s culture in this century’s Italy, which is to be found precisely in the 
area of studies concentrating on the two decades or so following the Second 
World War, that is, from approximately 1945 to 1965. There have been many 


! For her invaluable service in helping to look for answers to these and other questions 
raised by this volume, I thank my research assistant, Sarah Hill, whose dedicated work in 
tracking down critical materials was essential to this article. 


Annali d'Italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski and Dino S. Cervigni. 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna _ 170 


excellent studies of women during Fascism produced in recent years both in 
Italy and in the United States, and there is as well more and more scholarship on 
so-called “first-wave” and “second-wave” Italian feminism, the former of which 
strongly emerged in the sixties and seventies, and the latter of which has a 
complex trajectory of theories and practices since the eighties that continues into 
the present moment. Next, although women’s roles in the Resistance and in 
immediate postwar social and political organizations and activities have been 
investigated, it appears from my admittedly limited research to date that there 
has not been much concentration on the crucial postwar decade from 1945 to 
1955 as regards issues pertaining to the quotidian, familial, sexual, and 
otherwise more personal and private spheres of women’s existences in that era. 
Literary works by women written in the late forties and early fifties are, of 
course, excellent sources of perspectives on the private lives of women then; we 
think of such writers as Natalia Ginzburg, Alba de Céspedes, Anna Banti, Elsa 
Morante, and Gianna Manzini, to name but a few. My interest in the 
Enciclopedia della donna is sustained by my belief that it--and other practical 
guidebooks of this sort--offer another kind of perspective that opens a window 
onto women’s culture and daily practices specifically in the decade of national 
reconstruction following the ventennio and the War when the economic “Boom” 
had not yet transformed Italy into a predominantly industrialized and 
technologized society, and when the Fascist Regime’s legacy regarding 
women’s roles lingered and continued to shape prescriptions of attitudes and 
values. 

I should preface what follows by highlighting my own status as a neophyte 
in scholarship concentrating on the immediate postwar era; my work on Italian 
women’s culture to date has focussed on contemporary materials (as indeed my 
current work on other aspects of twentieth-century Italy does), and so this piece 
is my first published step backward into a period that has personal as well as 
professional resonance for me: the time when my own mother was young, 
struggling to be a responsible wife and parent, and when I was a small child with 
all of my woman’s life before me. The great distances that separate postwar Italy 
from postwar small-town America into which I was born cannot erase the 
frisson of recognition I felt when reading the Enciclopedia della donna, looking 
at its illustrations of fashions and furnishings, and absorbing its recipes for 
“natural womanhood.” It reminded me of books on my mother’s shelf: The Joy 
of Cooking; Sewing for Beginners; Emily Post etiquette books; Dr. Spock’s 
guides to the care of children. My fascination with this text cannot, therefore, be 
cut off from its paradoxically uncanny familiarity (its unheimlich “hominess,” so 
to say) nor from its more unfamiliar cultural specificity. Nor do I wish to 


2 See Wood, Pickering-Iazzi, Nerenberg, and Torriglia, among many other possible 
sources, for excellent considerations of women writers both during Fascism and in the 
postwar period. 


171 Rebecca West 


divorce my strong interest in this text from a personal desire to understand 
better the specific contours of both high and low “technologies of gender” as 
they were articulated at the time of my entry into the world (1946). I believe, 
furthermore, that such autobiographically-driven research forwards not only 
self-understanding, but also serves to illuminate shared generational positionings 
and the resultant emphases in theory and practice by which we “baby-boomers” 
currently are shaping and transforming sexed and gendered concepts of the 
world in which we now live. 

Before I turn to a detailed description and analysis of the 1950 
Enciclopedia, it is useful, I believe, to consider (necessarily) briefly some of the 
complex contours of women’s culture during the preceding Fascist era. The 
fairly monolithic and fundamentally simplistic view propounded until recent 
revisionist work began to flourish is that Fascism succeeded in imposing a single 
role for women — devoted motherhood — to which women overwhelmingly 
consented. Work by Victoria de Grazia, Maria Antonietta Macchiocchi, Barbara 
Spackman, Lucia Re, Karen Pinkus, Robin Pickering-Iazzi, and many other 
scholars engaged in gendered approaches to Fascist culture has complicated this 
view by pointing out both the diverse representations of women forwarded 
during Fascism, and the multiple sites of women’s microresistances to the 
dominant maternal role that dot the landscape of the ventennio. In Pickering- 
Iazzi’s recent study, Politics of the Visible: Writing Women, Culture, and 
Fascism, for example, we find the following: “The variety of representations of 
woman — her ‘essence,’ familial roles, social duties, and position in the Fascist 
nation — incorporates both acknowledgments of and solicitations to behaviors we 
would likely consider emancipated, along with summons to assume the 
demeanors and responsibilities invoked by the traditional figure of the woman- 
mother” (“Introduction,” 9-10). As Pickering-Iazzi goes on to explain more 
fully, women under Fascism were simultaneously subjected to a repressive 
demographic campaign to stimulate an increased birthrate, to ceilings on their 
numbers in state jobs, and to higher university tuition rates, and yet they were 
also urged to participate in volunteer and paid work, sports, and leisure activities 
that were all encouragements to freer and more public existences. 

In another recent study, Lucia Re has analyzed the Fascist theories of 
gender propounded by Giovanni Gentile and Ferdinando Loffredo, in which 
women are seen as strictly other than men, however; theories whereby the 
masculine was posited (once again!) as the universalized and normative category 
of identity against which the feminine was contrasted, usually to the latter’s 
detriment. As Re points out, Gentile did not base his “technology of gender” on 
a vulgar biological essentialism, but rather on a sophisticated use of Hegelian 
thought in which woman is placed “squarely within the economy of the family 
and, therefore of the state” (“Fascist Theories of ‘Woman,’” in Mothers of 
Invention, 82). The reproductive role of women was highlighted as an essential 
factor in maintaining a strict division of gender roles, the blurring of which, as 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 172 


Re argues, “was a threat to the entire Fascist hierarchy of values” (83). If 
Gentile’s arguments were based on a fairly moderate idea of complementarity, 
Loffredo’s were much more openly misogynist, for he stated the unequivocal 
rightness of women’s subordination to men, railed against modern women’s 
move to the workplace outside of the home, as well as against women’s 
involvement in sports and other leisure activities that took them away from the 
home and the care of their children. Re proposes, however, as does Pickering- 
Iazzi, that there were “countertechnologies” of gender generated by women 
themselves, findable “in the micropolitical discursive practices of, for example, 
women writers” (89). In sum, there were many sites of tension between, on the 
one hand, Fascism’s push to modernize Italy and to use the female workforce in 
support of its industrializing, colonizing, and modernizing goals and, on the 
other, the Regime’s theoretical and practical programs of keeping women 
squarely within the traditionally defined private sphere of the nuclear family 
where they could reproduce rather than produce. Writing and other forms of 
cultural production and everyday practices by women under Fascism reveal that 
they navigated in these complex seas with an awareness of the turbulence 
around them, sometimes with an acceptance of maternity as a noble destiny, 
sometimes with a much more troubled relation to their constructed position as 
mothers and wives within a strictly guarded private sphere that was, nonetheless, 
essential to the maintenance of the male-authored public sphere. 

In this essay, I cannot do more than signal very superficially some of the 
issues pertaining to women’s lives and culture during Fascism, as I have tried to 
do in the preceding brief remarks. My main focus is instead on the immediate 
postwar period when the Fascist Regime had fallen and Italy was actively 
engaged on multiple fronts in its reconstruction as a democratic and forward- 
looking society. As Anna Maria Torriglia rightly emphasizes in her doctoral 
thesis (as yet unpublished), dedicated to an analysis of films and prose fiction of 
the decade 1945-55, there was a shared sense in Italy after the War that times 
had suddenly and radically changed. This perception of a shift into a new 
temporality brought with it both anxiety and a positive feeling of future 
possibilities for men and women alike: “The theme of passing/changing of time 
is prevalent in the immediate postwar in literature and film, and mirrors the 
Italian people’s painful and nebulous emotional state. . .In the emotional distress 
of the postwar period, it was hard for Italian people to assess where they stood 
with reference to the past, or to assess their current identity whose construction 
was imbued with undefined yearnings” (2). Among the many topics that are 
traceable as particularly compelling, according to Torriglia, relations between 
the older and the younger (generational issues), gender roles and relations, and 
the validity of patriarchal assumptions about social organization are all 
interrogated in a wide variety of cultural productions from literary texts, to 
films, to public debates carried out by political and intellectual figures in this 
era. The role of the family and of women is an intensely and self-consciously 


173. Rebecca West 


contested issue after the fall of Fascism, for the family and women as 
reproducers both were lynchpins in the Regime’s constructed ideology. As 
Lucia Re remarks, any assault under Fascism on the traditional patriarchal 
family structure and any blurring of sexual and gender difference “threaten[s] to 
weaken, if not abolish, modern, or in other words, Fascist, consciousness and the 
Fascist state. Indeed, we are only now beginning to understand more clearly 
through feminist and gender studies just how central the ideology of gender 
difference as a binary logic is to the construction of racial and class difference as 
well, at all levels of social and political discourse” (82-3). This binary logic, 
intensified and instrumentalized during the Fascist ventennio, was not unique to 
that period, however, and both predated and postdated Fascism, as is abundantly 
evident not only in Italian history and contemporary social realities there, but 
also in our own society and culture in which, today, “family values” and strong 
resistance to alternative family arrangements as well as to gender blurring 
permeate all levels of political-cultural expression.? Moreover, the persistence 
into our own era of an unease regarding how or if the “private” issues that attach 
to the family, to gender roles, and to expressions of sexuality might be publicly 
regulated is a clear sign of the fundamental social (as well as theoretical) 
centrality of many as yet unresolved questions basic to human collective 
existence, among which: What is woman, and what is her role at home and in 
society? 

This orientation to “whatness” permeates structural and rhetorical strategies 
of prescription such as are seen in guidebooks of all kinds, including the volume 
to be discussed: What is a good wife and mother? What does a woman need to 
know in order to function well at home and in the workplace? What is the 
family? In recent work, Adriana Cavarero has sought to show the limitations of 
both so-called “essentialist” or “metaphysical,” and “postmodern” approaches to 
feminine difference and differences; in both, she asserts, theories of the 
“whatness” of woman (whether a single “what” or plural “whats’’) “continuano a 
definire il campo concettuale dello scontro” (“Chi fa politica,” 4). The “who” is 
instead, as Hannah Arendt wrote, “specific uniqueness” (quoted in Cavarero, 4), 
which definitions based on “whatness” cannot reach, since the latter looks at 
shared traits of identity (middle-class, white, Catholic, for example). Although 


3 Although his study is not dedicated to issues of gender, David Ward’s recent book, 
Antifascisms: Cultural Politics in Italy 1943-46 is extremely useful in understanding the 
conflicting views of postwar reconstruction, which he calls Crocean Liberalism on the 
one hand, and Activism, identified with Carlo Levi, on the other. He writes that “if the 
thrust of Liberal antifascism was toward the restoration and the building of lines of 
continuity between pre- and post-Fascist Italy, the Activists pressed to effect a rupture 
between past and present” (132). Women’s right to vote, which was instituted in 1945, 
was described by many as a “restoration” of prewar feminist attitudes, for example, and 
thus a traceable line of continuity between pre-ventennio and post-ventennio Italy. 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 174 


this is not the appropriate place in which to elaborate the important implications 
of Cavarero’s approach, I want to keep “whatness” in mind as I proceed to 
discuss the Enciclopedia della donna further on in this essay, for I believe that 
the persistence of this “campo concettuale” in the early years of the First 
Republic conditioned not only the language of domestic guidebooks, but also 
much broader venues of discourse pertaining to women, and that the effects of 
this orientation are still being felt in today’s society. Perhaps more than the 
specific continuities in theories and practices traceable from the Fascist era to 
the postwar period and beyond, we might do well to interrogate the limits and 
dangers of conceptualizations of “woman” as well as “women” based on 
“whatness,” conceptualizations readily perceptible in guidebooks then and now. 


In a study published in 1996, Sorelle d'Italia: casalinghe, impiegate e 
militanti nel Novecento (to which J shall return later in my analysis of the 
Enciclopedia), dedicated primarily to an investigation of the role of the Catholic 
Church in the construction and shaping of Italian female identity and practices in 
this century, Cecilia Dau Novelli places her work in the context of “social 
history” (as contrasted to “political history”), a methodological approach that, 
like the focus of much of the research now done under the label of “cultural 
studies,” enables scholars to emphasize aspects of historical realities generally 
ignored by primary or exclusive emphasis on the realm of macroevents. 
Women’s history (within the broader context of alterity) has by now been folded 
into history tout court, as a complete understanding of all past events, “large” or 
“small,” both macro and micro, has been supported by recent research; and, as 
Dau Novelli remarks,“gli anni Ottanta sono stati . . . prolifici sia dal punto di 
vista storiografico sia negli studi specifici” (9). The “prolific” nature of the last 
decade’s contributions to women’s history is matched, and perhaps even 
surpassed, by the continuing work of this decade; to mention just a few of the 
many very recent titles of social-historical and cultural studies texts dedicated to 
Italian women’s culture published in the United States, there is the pioneering 
volume, Feminine Feminists: Cultural Practices in Italy, edited by Giovanna 
Miceli Jeffries; editor Pickering-Iazzi’s Mothers of Invention: Women, Italian 
Fascism, and Culture, which preceded her monograph Politics of the Visible 
cited above; as well as the gender-sensitive collections of essays, Revisioning 
Italy: National Identity and Global Culture (Beverly Allen and Mary Russo, 
editors), and Jtalian Cultural Studies: An Introduction (David Forgacs and 
Robert Lumley, editors). My desire to bring the Enciclopedia della donna — a 
volume clearly intended for use in the micro-zone of everyday life — into the 
arena of academic and public discourses is strengthened by these research 
directions, and I thus offer that which follows as what I hope is seen as a valid 
contribution to knowledge about and understanding of a crucial period of Italian 
history, when the First Republic was formed and a “new” democratic national 
identity was in the process of being forged. This watershed era, like certain eras 


175 Rebecca West 


preceding it, was permeated by intense collective self-consciousness and 
national auto-analysis. The descriptive impetus was accompanied by a 
prescriptive urge: not only was there the desire on the part of Italians to narrate 
their immediate past experience (as seen in Neorealist texts and films), but there 
was also a strong future-oriented wish to guide the individual and the society 
into its, as yet unshaped, post-Fascist future. I therefore now move toward a 
description and preliminary analysis of the Enciclopedia della donna, which is 
in fact a guidebook, a map for the challenging territory of “modern women’s” 
existence in a then present reality both frighteningly unmoored from the 
monumental Fascist ship of state with its cargo of directives for “natural 
womanhood,” and, at the same time, positively infused with the exhilaration of 
ostensibly new beginnings. In the course of what follows, I shall refer to broader 
insights regarding the postwar period in question provided by the studies named 
above, as well as to some additional critical and historical studies in which the 
late forties and early fifties are considered, but my main goal is to describe 
specifically the assumptions and hopes that implicitly inform this guide for 
women. 


2. A Big Red Tome: All You Want To Know About Womanhood in Postwar Italy 
The cover of the 987-page Enciclopedia della donna, edited by one Bianca Ugo 
and published in its “sesta edizione riveduta e ampliata” by the Milanese Casa 
Editrice Bianchi-Giovini in 1950, is eye-catching, to say the least. A deep red 
color, the golden letters of the title and the editor’s name appear on the spine in 
a black box also lined in gold. The front of the volume is decorated with an odd 
figure in black, which looks something like a tailor’s dummy in the shape of the 
torso of a woman, but is split in two with a baby in gold on the right side and a 
gold heart on the left (see photograph at the end of essay). This figure also 
suggests (at least to my eye) domestic implements like a bobbin, or a hand 
coffee grinder, or even a rolling pin, given the round-handled protuberances that 
extend out from the neck and the shoulders where a head and arms would 
normally be. An armless, headless female shape defined by the maternal and the 
emotional (baby and heart) is thus given as an emblem of the “donna” whose 
book this is. When we open the book, we find a two-page untitled introduction 
by editor Bianca Ugo, after which are included six essays followed by the 
encyclopedic “A” to “Z” listings called “Il repertorio della donna.” The first 
essay, “La donna nella casa, nella famiglia, nella vita sociale,’ signed by U. 
Déttore, is decidedly different in tone and content than the five which come 
after, and may well have been added to this “revised and expanded” 1950 
edition. The subsequent five essays are all dedicated to issues pertaining to child 
care and some are signed, others not; they are: “Breve trattato di puericultura” 
by Professor Ferdinando Cislaghi; the unsigned “La ginnastica del bambino”; 
“Breve trattato di psicologia infantile” by dottor Giulio Pacuvio Puppo; “Che 
cosa devo rispondere al mio bambino: breve trattato di educazione sessuale” 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 176 


based on a Danish text by Ida Hést; and “Cento consigli pratici per l’educazione 
dei figli” by the editor Bianca Ugo. Each exercise in the essay on baby 
gymnastics is illustrated with photographs, and there are some simple drawings 
that accompany the “birds and bees” chats included in “Che cosa devo 
rispondere al mio bambino.” The alphabetized entries in the “repertorio della 
donna,” which go from “Abbacchio” to “Zuppa inglese” are much more heavily 
illustrated, with photographs and drawings ranging from clothing styles and 
makeup, to home furnishings, to types of cats, to flowers, to massage 
techniques. There is a striking and, at times, even (surely unintentional) comic 
effect produced by the alphabetic contiguity of topics that are widely divergent 
in seriousness or intellectual complexity and depth; we find “patrimonio 
familiare” followed by “pattinaggio,” for example, as well as “timballo” 
succeeded by “timidita,” “tribunale per i minorenni” by “triglia,” “adulterio” by 
“aerofagia,” and my favorite, already mentioned in the first part of this essay, 
“reggipetto” by “religione.” This hybrid mix of weighty, explicitly legalistic, or 
socially relevant topics, and material elements of domestic life such as 
foodstuffs and female underwear, blithely ignores differences in rhetorical 
registers (as well as in levels of intrinsic complication), so that everything 
eventually seems to be masterable and fully explainable in a few well-chosen 
phrases, as is generally true of guidebooks, without the irony, however, that 
often makes such guides of the “everything you ever wanted to know” kind so 
much fun to read. Here, the humorous effect is decidedly unintended. 

In this venue it is impossible to enter into a full description — not to speak of 
analysis — of every part of this fascinating volume. I therefore have chosen to 
concentrate further on in my article on the opening essay, on the “chat” on 
homosexuality in the “brief treatise on sexual education,” and on a possible 
interpretation of the meaning of the choices that make up the “repertory” of 
terms that form the bulk of the book, from page 207 to page 987. Before 
analyzing these specific sections of the Enciclopedia, however, I want briefly to 
describe another such guidebook from the same era (1952), as it provides an 
occasion for some telling comparisons and contrasts between such contemporary 
aids for women. The Dizionario domestico (tutto per la casa),edited by S. 
Palazzi and D. Bencetti and published by the Casa Editrice Ceschina of Milan in 
1952, is a much less ambitious and elaborate text, although its function as an 
“all-inclusive” domestic guide for women clearly allies it to the more wide- 
ranging Enciclopedia. Both books are organized alphabetically, with entries 
ranging from “abbacchio” to “zuppiera” (in the Dizionario) and “zuppa inglese” 
(in the Enciclopedia), but the Dictionary does not include introductory essays as 
does the longer Encyclopedia, nor do its entries stray much from the strictly 
practical elements of domestic life (food, manners, clothing, furniture), again 
unlike the longer text, in which are also to be found broader extra-domestic 
topics. The Dictionary provides three appendices, however, to enrich its 
offerings; in the first, there is a “tavola della composizione chimica degli 


177 Rebecca West 


alimenti”; in the second, a “ricettario di cucina”; and in the third, an “elenco 
delle ricorrenze onomastiche,” and thus they all refer to the archetypically 
feminine realms of food and celebrations. 

The Preface of the Dizionario, barely over one page long, sets a serious tone 
for what follows; it begins: “Il governo della casa é un compito grave e difficile, 
irto di responsabilita, ed ogni giovane sposa lo affronta con pavido tremore.” If 
the woman who bought this book were not already worried and insecure about 
how to be a good wife and mother, these opening words would likely instill 
certain feelings of inadequacy and unease. “Grave,” “difficile,” “irto,” “pavido 
tremore”’: one thinks of an expedition to conquer Mount Everest rather than of 
the performance of domestic chores! Not to fear, however, for if the “giovane 
padrona di casa” is abandoned to her complex duties by a husband who is “quasi 
assente tutto il giorno da casa per il suo lavoro” and who furthermore “‘si affida 
completamente a lei, e da lei aspetta . . . miracoli,” the editors of this guide are 
there to give “aiuto” and “simpatia,” and to fulfill their duty of making woman’s 
road “meno impervia e faticosa.” The Dizionario domestico should become “il 
compagno fedele di ogni donna” (perhaps unlike that less reliable absentee 
husband?), and should serve to let her realize her “sogno pit caro: la felicita 
domestica.” There follows a list of the many topics that are included in the 
volume, which together provide advice on “tutto quello che il governo della casa 
richiede,” and range from the choice of furniture to the upbringing of children, 
from the “problem” of servants to gardening, from the arrangement of a gala 
dinner party (“in cui la sposina deve farsi onore’’) to caring for the sick, proper 
manners, fashion, makeup, and much, much more (“ecc, ecc”). The Preface ends 
with the confident assertion that “la diligente sposina” will find everything she 
needs here, in a book that “rispond[e] a tutte le esigenze della vita quotidiana.” 
From “pavido tremore” to complete reassurance, all in a little over one page! 

The paternalistic tone of the Preface — note that the woman reader is 
addressed as “giovane,” and “una sposina” — is, of course, typical of most 
guidebooks, in which “those who know how to” write for “those who are 
ignorant.” More than this tone, then, what is specifically notable in this Preface 
are the assumptions expressed: that a woman is naturally left to deal with all 
aspects of home life while her husband fully absents himself (due to his work) 
and, upon returning home, he naturally expects “miracles” of her. That a 
woman’s “dearest dream” is “domestic happiness” also tends in the direction of 
a blatantly hyperbolic privileging of the realm to which this volume is dedicated, 
as if nothing could matter more to a woman than being a perfect housewife. 
There are, however, rare indications, scattered throughout various entries in the 
body of the text, that “modern” women of today (1952) are different from the 
delicate flowers and dedicated wives and mothers of times past, although, unlike 
in the 1950 Enciclopedia, these views are not highlighted or rendered explicit. 
For example, under the term “complimenti,” we read: “Un uomo, specialmente 
se maturo, non insistera nel far complimenti ad una signora o signorina sulla sua 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 178 


bellezza, gentilezza, abilita. Le donne d’oggi non sono affatto romantiche, e non 
apprezzano piu le lodi che anche da lontano rammentano i Cicisbei,o i Don 
Giovanni di un tempo (italics mine; 67). Or, under “domestica,” we find: “La 
classe delle domestiche va scomparendo, dato anche Je nuove idee che 
governano la societa” (italics mine; 86). Perhaps most revealingly, we read the 
following under the term “famiglia”: “La convivenza piu difficile ¢ quella fra 
suocera e nuora. Esse rappresentano due eta e due educazioni diverse. La 
suocera indulga alle aspirazioni e alla modernita della nuora; ricordi la sua 
gioventu; non imponga la sua volonta, e non opprima con osservazioni o 
consigli. La nuora veda nella suocera soprattutto la madre del marito; la rispetti 
e ne tolleri le, talvolta noiose, idee dovute all’eta; rammenti che, molto spesso, 
la posizione sociale del marito € dovuta anche all’opera materna” (93-4). The 
tradition of extended families underlies these words, yet the recognition of 
generational clashes (the “modernity” of the daughter-in-law contrasted to the 
“sometimes annoying ideas” of the old-fashioned mother-in-law) is striking, as 
is the last, almost parenthetical, yet quite resonant assertion of the mother’s 
centrality to her son’s social success and positioning. 

Yet the overwhelming impression given by the Dizionario domestico is of a 
world in which traditional values still dominate, and in which the essential 
things that make up that world are unchanging; there is a very noticeable 
emphasis, for example, on such relatively rural activities as bee-keeping (“api” 
and “apicultura” occupy three full pages of text, replete with illustrations); and 
the humble hen, “la femmina del gallo,” is given another three full pages in 
which we learn that “sotto aspetti modesti e pacifici, le galline sono assai 
turbolente; si sentono continuamente schiamazzare e litigare fra di loro; sono 
anche alquanto crudeli” (105), almost as if the “sposina” should be very careful 
not to be like this other producer of eggs and sisterly symbol of the feminine 
sphere of the (hen)house. It is difficult to see why a young, modern, presumably 
urban wife (“contadine” are clearly referred to as very distinctly other than the 
readers of this book, as in the entry under “balia” (30) where it is advised that 
the wetnurse be chosen from among “le contadine brune e prosperose, sprizzanti 
salute da tutti i pori, proprie delle nostre campagne”) would need to know about 
hen diseases in detail, or about the intricate details of bee-keeping. The effect is 
of traces of a rural conception of the housewife that still adhere to a guidebook 
for the new, citified, postwar woman. Among discussions of telephone and train 
etiquette, of how to pack up for the annual “villeggiatura,” and of current styles 
such as short skirts and modes of making up the face, as well as the inclusion of 
photographs of decidedly urban kitchens and children’s rooms — all indications 
of a “modern” lifestyle — there are disquisitions on rural and traditional topics, 
the combination of which reveals a society in transition, unsure of exactly what 
a “natural,” perfected Italian housewife of 1952 might in fact be. 

This hybrid quality characterizes the Enciclopedia della donna also. In his 
excellent survey of changes in patterns of consumption primarily from the years 


179 Rebecca West 


of the immediate postwar period to the 1990’s, David Forgacs notes an aspect of 
Italian society in the 1950’s that is highly pertinent to my discussion: the very 
great, geographically determined differences and inequalities in lifestyles that 
permeated postwar Italy. He writes: “All [statistical, literary, and cinematic 
forms of evidence] show persistent variations in the quantity and type of cultural 
consumption between large cities, main provincial towns, and rural areas, and 
between the regions of the North and Center on the one hand and those of the 
mainland South and Islands on the other. This highly varied social geography of 
cultural skills, competencies, and consumption is just one indicator among many 
(others include income, diet, average life expectancy) of the high degree of 
inequality between regions and classes in Italy, an inequality that started to 
flatten out in the late 1950s but which persists today” (Forgacs and Lumley 
277). I think it fair to assume that, although there were broadly clear distinctions 
between regions and classes, there was also in this period a good deal of mixing 
of old, often rural traditions with new, modern prescriptions for urban living, a 
mix that I have touched upon in the preceding discussion of the Dizionario 
domestico, and that I see as one of the less salient but nonetheless still 
perceivable characteristics of the Enciclopedia della donna. 

The fifties’ Church also played an important role in forwarding a 
combination of the old and the new within the feminine domestic sphere, as well 
as within public spaces in which women were now able to vote and to involve 
themselves in more socially and politically relevant activities formerly left 
primarily to men. The role of women that the Church of the 1950’s sought to 
construct was not univocal, nor was the Church’s authority easily assimilable 
into postwar Italian society, however. As Dau Novelli notes in her Sorelle 
d'Italia: casalinghe, impiegate e militanti nel Novecento: “gli anni Cinquanta 
sono gli anni della secolarizzazione; sono quelli in cui pit stridente si fa il 
contrasto tra Chiesa e modernizzazione. Qui |’immagine femminile tradizionale 
appare in forte difficolta, perché viene messa in crisi da forze divergenti, prima 
fra tutte quella del mito americano con le sue donne libere e sicure capaci di 
esprimersi anche a livello dirigenziale” (60). The pope, Pio XII, gave many 
speeches both live and on the radio, in which he addressed the place of women 
within the new modern Italy; according to Dau Novelli, he forwarded “un 
modello femminile forte e vincente da poter propagandare senza difficolta in 
tutti gli ambienti sociali,” emphasizing the need to shape educated,cultured 
women with sound bodies as well as sound minds, while still highlighting the 
importance of the domestic sphere and praising, for example, the Catholic 
Women Union’s courses on home economics.* Dau Novelli concludes that Pio 


4 Dau Novelli cites Pio XII’s “Nel trentesimo della Gioventi’ Femminile Italiana di 
Azione Cattolica” of September 5, 1948, as well as his “Suggello alle celebrazioni per il 
quarantennio dell’Unione Donne dell’Azione Cattolica Italiana” of July 24, 1949, both 
now available in the volume Discorsi e radiomessaggi, Poliglotta Vaticana , vols. 10-11, 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 180 


XII was particularly attentive to “la questione femminile,’ and sums up her 
perspective in the foliowing terms: “Nel suo magistero si coglie un certo 
equilibrio tra persistenze dell’immagine tradizionale e sensibilita verso il nuovo. 
La chiesa di Pio XII é ‘amica della modernita’ e uno degli aspetti pit evidenti 
della trasformazione é proprio la crescente presenza femminile” (61). 
Nonetheless, Dau Novelli sees Pio XII’s view of women as having been too 
“Jontana dalla realta della vita quotidiana,” for his ideal was that of a woman 
“pura, fedele e forte, che non conosce cedimenti o crisi, che non ammette 
esitazioni,” while “in realta, la donna e l’uomo degli anni Cinquanta sono gia 
travagliati da profondi turbamenti interiori che li portano a interrogarsi sulla 
reale validita dei reciproci ruoli nella famiglia e nella societa” (62). The 
“turbamenti” to which Dau Novelli alludes are, I believe, perceptible in a variety 
of ways in the Enciclopedia della donna, a text that, like Pio XII, moves 
between the persistence of certain traditional images of Woman, and a nascent 
sensitivity to the enormous complexity of the entire realm of the feminine, the 
familial, and the domestic in which diverse and individual women moved. 

Editor Bianca Ugo’s brief Introduction to the Enciclopedia seeks to 
distinguish this volume from the “so many” other guides that have appeared in 
recent times (such as the Dizionario domestico discussed above), for this book is 
“‘adeguato alle esigenze e alla mentalita di oggi” and includes not only domestic 
tips or advice on proper comportment and grooming, but also “tante altre cose 
divenute indispensabili alla cultura generale della donna moderna nel campo del 
lavoro, del diritto, del costume civile” (5). She also emphasizes the changed tone 
of the book, which is no longer that “tono tra mellifluo e mondano, caratteristico 
di certa letteratura dedicata alla ‘regina della casa’,” for this is a book that seeks 
to move away from “la complessa alchimia dei lavori domestici, propria dei 
manuali di un tempo,” (6) in favor of an expanded attention to questions 
pertaining to education, psychology, ethics, and law. The “then” and “now” 
perspective is thus made explicit; this is a new kind of book in a new voice, 
written for a new woman in a new society, the contours of all of which have 


1948-49. She also notes, importantly, that although Pio XII accepted the idea of female 
participation in public life (“ma era stata una necessita a cui si era dovuto adeguare, non 
sappiamo con quanta intima soddisfazione’”) and he often spoke of and to women, “non 
ha lasciato sulle donne alcuna menzione nelle sue encicliche. Le donne, pur cosi presenti 
nella sua sollecitudine quotidiana, sono assenti dai suoi documenti ufficiali” (62). The 
next pope, Giovanni XXIII, instead did write of women in two of his encicliche, and he 
also insisted on the role of men as well as women in the generation and raising of 
children, in the context of a late 1950s and early 1960s Italy that had fully entered into its 
boom years of radical modernization on all fronts. It hardly need be said that the Church 
aligned itself with anti-Communism in the immediate postwar period, so that many 
women (and men) were torn between their political preferences and their Catholicism. 
This split can be seen in the fundamentally oppositional Catholic Women’s Union (anti- 
communist) and the Unione Donne Italiane, (strongly allied with the Communist party). 


181 Rebecca West 


shifted and been transformed in significant ways in a very short period of time. 

The “modernity” of the Enciclopedia is nowhere more evident than in the 
first essay, “La donna nella casa, nella famiglia, nella vita sociale.” A forty-three 
page piece, authored by one U. Déttore (man or woman? My sense is that 
Déttore’s is a male voice), it is divided into three parts as indicated in the title. 
The first part, “La casa,” opens with a strong highlighting of the recent radical 
changes that have affected “la condizione della donna,” transforming woman 
from the classical “angelo tutelare delle pareti domestiche” into “una collega 
dell’uomo. . .su un piano di parita di doveri e di diritti” (9). Even more strongly 
are these changes justified, primarily by the undeniable “crisi” of the “mondo 
maschile,” in which “le sconfitte” have replaced past “vittorie,” and men are no 
longer the mythic knights of old who confidently held the reins of their 
masculine world of initiatives and risks, from which women were effectively 
excluded, except in reaping its (material) benefits. Modern woman is next 
characterized as having, in contrast to men’s ‘vaste vedute” and “eroici ideali 
proiettati in distanza,” a much more concrete “sensibilita per |’attuale” and a 
solid “senso pratico di prim’ordine,” which have led her to jump in and work 
side by side with the man who “economicamente e spiritualmente, non bastava 
piu a tirare avanti un’esistenza” (10). The relatively positive feminist tonality of 
all this modulates into a darker tone in the next paragraph, however, in which 
the author writes of “un regresso maschile” seen in the “cosiddetto progresso 
femminile” (italics mine), the former of which women certainly cannot rejoice 
in. Moreover, women are far from forgiving men for their masculine “disfatta,” 
and they would, “in fondo,” be happy to give up “questa parita decantata, e 
questo esaltato progresso.” Alas, however, it cannot be, for times have 
irrevocably changed: “‘cosi stanno oggi le cose.” What follows is, I think, worth 
being quoted at some length: 


Un tempo, chi scriveva questi libri dedicati alla vita domestica aveva una falsariga sicura: 
il suo compito consisteva soprattutto nel raccogliere una precisa serie di tradizioni e di 
costumi, . . . nel difendere una buona consuetudine. Oggi é assai difficile dare una norma 
perché una norma non esiste né si pud improvwvisare: viviamo tutti nell’eccezione. Cosi 
questo libro dedicato alla donna deve necessariamente risentire del periodo inquieto in 
cui é stato scritto ... Quel senso di riposo e di pace che noi avvertiamo quando leggiamo 
le opere dedicate cinquant’anni fa alla vita domestica non sara probabilmente sentito da 
chi, fra cent’anni, si trovi tra le mani quest’opera scovata in chissa quale libreria 
antiquaria; quel nostro futuro lettore si meravigliera, forse, nell’apprendere come, verso 
la meta del nostro secolo, ci si appoggiasse ancora, da un lato, a vecchie norme gia in 
declino e sulla soglia di un definitivo tramonto, e, dall’altro, si restasse incerti di fronte a 
problemi ovvii, si vagasse dubitosi intorno a soluzioni ormai stabilite da tempo e cosi 
facilmente raggiungibili. Gli chiediamo scusa della delusione e ci auguriamo che egli ci 
possa giudicare da posizioni ormai raggiunte e sicure. 

(10-11; italics mine) 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 182 


The unease expressed here is subtended by a perceptible ambivalence; on the 
one hand, there is a muted longing for past times when “sure guidelines” 
existed, but, on the other, there is an imagined projection into the future when 
the present unquiet times will be surpassed, and sureties will once again reign. 
Déttore positions his/her argument between tradition and innovation, but here, as 
elsewhere throughout the essay, the balance tips in the direction of a preference 
for the security of a known past in contrast to the dangers of an unknown, yet 
unstoppable future of full-blown modern proportions. 

In the passage quoted above, the prescient image of a future (male) reader 
who will find this volume in some antiquarian bookshop (not a hundred years 
later in my case, but almost fifty!) and will be disappointed in the book’s 
limitations is a subtle and, to me, even haunting indication of the strong unease 
that permeates the essay, and makes up no small part of its interest now. Déttore 
apologizes for the lack of the sense of “repose” and “peace” that guides written 
fifty years before this one (at the turn of the century, that is) gave to their 
readers; but it is obvious that this lack is felt by Déttore him/herself, torn 
between “vecchie norme in declino” and the doubt-ridden divagations of the 
present “periodo inquieto.” The essay reflects, in an intense manner, the self- 
conscious uncertainties of the immediate postwar period; the confident tone 
usually employed in such didactic venues is not to be found here, and Déttore’s 
rhetorical hesitations, ambivalence, and, at times, outright contradictions 
ironically contribute to create an impression of that very “modernity” (or even 
“postmodernity,” in that “grand narratives” are undermined by doubt) of which 
he/she is so diffident. 

The remaining pages of the first section, “La casa,” are given over to a 
detailed consideration of the economic advantages and disadvantages of a 
married life in which both husband and wife work outside of the home. The 
“American” model is one in which the couple are away from home more than in 
it; they go to work, indulge in sports and cultural activities, and eat their meals, 
made up of canned foods, in haste. They have no domestic help, but usually own 
an automobile. This style of life is fine except for one important factor: children. 
When children come, the “American” couple must make real changes such as 
finding domestic help and moving to a larger home; this is the time when the 
question arises as to whether it is economically advisable for the wife to 
continue to work outside of the home. The “mechanized” aspects of this 
“American” model are emphasized (“tutto avviene molto in fretta appunto per la 
meccanica razionalita dell’azienda” 11), in contrast to the Italian model, which 
involves an apartment that is “molto meno meccanizzato e dispone di una donna 
di servizio,” at least among the middle class. The Italian couple, unlike their 
American counterparts, sees the home as “un tepido nucleo di vita che deve 
sempre essere abitato in qualche modo, sia pure di una domestica,” in contrast to 
the American home, a “macchina da abitare che deve soddisfare celermente e 


183 Rebecca West 


adeguatamente alcune esigenze pratiche” (12).° After discussing the training 
methods best used with domestic help, the author notes that it is the home of the 
“media borghesia” that is being described, although the “classe proletaria” (a 
term that is “avvilente” and “volutamente polemico,” and should be banned 
from use) generally follows much the same pattern as a middle-class working 
couple, with the advantage that their children can be cared for in State-run 
“asili” and other “assistenze di fabbrica” (14). In all cases, however, the basic 
practical problem of today in dealing with “la casa” is the working woman, and 
the economic question of whether her salary is a true advantage, given the 
complications that arise when children come onto the scene. The question is left 
open; women may decide to work outside of the home or decide to stay at home, 
but in either case the husband should take on some domestic tasks, and 
everything having to do with the running of a house should be organized 
according to a “piano razionale” (16). Having outlined the purely economic 
aspects of the new, modern world of working women, the author alludes to “gli 
aspetti spirituali” of the question, which he/she will take up in the next section, 
dedicated to “la famiglia.” 

The family is considered from many points of view in the following section 
of the essay. The author again points out that both men and women are currently 
in a “crisis” state due to the disappearance of traditional models. Furthermore, 
the family itself is in crisis: “La famiglia, bisogna riconoscerlo, é in arretrato sul 
tempo: se ne parla gia come di qualche cosa che ostacola il cosiddetto progresso, 
le si applica quell’appellativo di borghese che, dal suo nobile significato di un 
tempo, e a cui avrebbe ancor oggi diritto, ¢ decaduto fino al livello di termine 
dispregiativo.” This crisis “é in gran parte di carattere femminile perché 
nell’intimo della famiglia si stenta a riconoscere quella che tende ad essere la 
posizione della donna nella societa” (23). There follows a detailed discussion of, 
first, the necessity for parents to recognize that times have changed and that their 
daughters want a freer, more independent existence (a clear sign of this is, 
according to the author, the open use of cosmetics, which practice is, however, 
evidence of girls’ fear of losing their femininity as they become more and more 
equal to men, their “inconscio terrore” of “un definitivo livellamento”; again, 
there is that ambivalence regarding “modernity” and “progress” that pervades 


5 Torriglia includes a chapter on the “myth of America” in her unpublished dissertation 
dedicated to a study of postwar Italy’s reconstruction. She writes: “For postwar Italy, 
‘America’ is a metaphor that comes to embody modernity itself, the epitome of industrial 
and social progress. .. . ” (112). Her readings of texts by Pavese and Vittorini, and of 
films by De Sica and Rossellini , in which “America” figures prominently reveal the 
extent to which anxieties regarding the feminine sphere and Italian womanhood are 
deeply imbricated with anxieties pertaining to modernization, understood as 
“Americanization.” This inter-penetration of “America” and “the new Italian couple” is 
eminently clear in Déttore’s essay. 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 184 


the entire volume. [25]). 

Next, married life is considered, and the author emphasizes the disparity 
between “le illusioni sperate” and “le realta concrete” of the sexual and practical 
aspects of marriage, citing divorce statistics from America (“paese delle 
Statistiche per eccellenza,” 29) in order to reveal the typical pattern and timing 
of disillusionments. Equality between husband and wife is highlighted as the 
most important site of inner and outer tensions in a marriage — the term “parita” 
is repeated many times — and the author concludes that there is “parita 
intellettuale e sociale, ma non potra mai essere una parita affettiva” (31). Men 
and women are simply different on the affective plane; women are givers, men 
are takers. This difference extends clearly into the topic of maternity; when she 
becomes pregnant, a woman is “in condizioni di inferiorita fisica; ¢ meno adatta 
alla vita come lotta col mondo esterno perché rivolge la maggior parte delle sue 
energie a un germinare interiore” (32). Women’s reproductive role is such that 
“fatalmente non pud seguire l’evoluzione sociale della donna e che tuttavia 
rimane la base dei rapporti familiari”; if women refuse their maternal role there 
follows a “mascolinizzazione della donna” for which no-one, male or female, 
“nessuno e nessuna,” is in favor (33). We thus are brought to the essence not 
only of “modern woman’s identity, but also to the subsequent emphases of the 
very volume we have in our hands: maternity and the care and nurturing of 
children, topics that dominate the Enciclopedia’s essays, in spite of the many 
other issues that are raised in this introductory essay. 

Déttore recognizes the complexities attaching to the issue of women’s 
reproductive role. He/she seeks to avoid somewhat a simplistic, biological 
determinism and essentialism, as the following passage reveals: 


Si é parlato molto . . . di leggi naturali. In realta € molto difficile stabilire che 
cosa sia, nel mondo umano, una legge di natura: perché la natura dell’uomo é in 
continuo mutamento e sarebbe assurdo considerare naturale uno stato primitivo 
e primordiale ignorando tutto cid che € avvenuto nel processo della civilta.. . il 
matrimonio, il costume, la cultura, il ragionamento stesso sono elementi 
innaturali ... ma si puo senz’altro parlare di natura quando ci troviamo dinanzi 
a dati biologici indiscutibili, e possiamo dire con sicurezza che qualsiasi 
ribellione della donna alla sua struttura affettiva e organica, ai suoi sentimenti 
e alla sua maternitd, costituisce un fatto innaturale e, per conseguenza, morboso 
o anche solo inintelligente. 

(33; italics mine ) 


I wrote “seeks to avoid somewhat,” because the overwhelming emphasis of 
this passage is indeed on biology, in spite of the recognition of the 
constructedness of cultural institutions and practices. Women are “unnatural” or 
just plain stupid if they rebel against their maternal role. The “motivo 
fondamentale in una famiglia, rimane quello dei figli,” and thus women must 


185 Rebecca West 


become mothers, although excessive reproduction such as is seen in “povere 
famiglie” is to be condemned, based as it is on a purely animal instinct (33).6 
Modern middle-class women are in fact now often refusing to have children (“il 
caso della donna che rifiuta di avere figli é divenuto oggi tutto’altro che raro,” 
36), and the author does not hope to convince them of the wrongness of this, but 
he/she offers a dire warning: “Anche su un piano di eguaglianza intellettuale e di 
lavoro, una donna non sara mai compiutamente se stessa se non avra 
l’esperienza della maternita.” Furthermore, the “intellectual woman” especially 
should take heed: only maternity will cause certain “valori spirituali” to emerge 
from the “fondo buio della personalita, e questi valori sono cosi intimamente 
collegati a tutti gli altri da rendere incompleta |’impalcatura dello spirito se 
vengono meno” (36).? The author next notes that many sections of the 
Enciclopedia are dedicated to particular aspects of child-raising, and so no 
specific advice will be given here, although by now it is abundantly clear that 
maternity is the issue. 

Instead, this part of the essay ends with a consideration of the unmarried 
mother, whose “piccola famiglia” is often “la pil coraggiosa e molte volte la piu 
degna di rispetto per il solo fatto che si é costituita” (38). The author does not 
wish to deal with unwed mothers who have chosen this lifestyle, women, that is, 
“nel nord, [di] una nuova generazione femminile con tendenze spiccatamente 
matriarcali” (38), who are motivated by a polemical (and therefore “dangerous”) 
anti-male spirit. (Who were these women?, I wonder.) Rather, women who 
become unwed mothers “in pi) umana e modesta maniera” are the topic of 
consideration; they are told not to feel any sense of inferiority for it is not their 
fault that sex and marriage are no longer indissolubly linked. On the other hand, 
they should not see themselves as victims of the male world, and throw 
themselves on the mercy of that world. An unwed mother must realize that 
“l’antica espressione ‘essersi rovinata per tutta la vita’ non é vera e non deve 
essere vera” (40). She should take on the responsibility of raising her child with 
courage and dignity, ignoring as much as she can society’s “ipocrita rigore” 


6 This is a fascinatingly indirect critique of the previous Fascist Regime’s emphasis on 
large families; Fascism is never mentioned openly, but instead such an emphasis is seen 
as linked to “quella retorica del sentimento che é forse la pit’ deteriore di ogni retorica” 
(33). In fact, the author of this piece appears willfully to skip over the immediate past of 
the ventennio throughout the essay, preferring to go back to the beginning of the century 
when making comparisons between the “old” ways and the current “modern” views on 
women and the family. 

7 Déattore would no doubt be greatly dismayed to know that today’s Italy has one of the 
lowest birthrates in Europe. The Diotima group of women philosophers have seriously 
interrogated this fact; indeed, it was Diotima’s leader, Luisa Muraro, who first alerted me 
to this reality as we walked down a busy street in Milan that was rather conspicuously 
lacking in children’s presence. 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 186 


regarding extramarital sex and the “diffidenza” of married women, who no 
doubt see her as a threat. How exactly her economic problems are to be solved is 
never broached. It is implied that, after all, she is a mother and, as such, she has 
the chance to develop those “valori spirituali” that women who refuse maternity 
altogether will never develop.® 

The last section of this fascinating document, made up throughout of an 
astounding mix of traditional and “modern” ideas and perspectives about and on 
women, is dedicated to “la societa.” This is the most openly political part of the 
essay, although the author continues to avoid any direct mention of the 
preceding Regime or of specific political parties and agendas of the postwar era 
in which he/she is writing. As in the opening words of the essay, once more the 
“crisis” of society, because of which women’s roles have radically changed, is 
attributed to the failings of men. In the recent past, men have given themselves 
over to “un accordo totalitario” rather than to “lotte o gare individuali,” with the 
result that there is a generalized “livellamento” (40) that threatens individuality 
in every sphere of social life, including the relation between the sexes and the 
institution of marriage. The author imagines a future in which sex might become 
“un semplice rapporto fisiologico da compiersi magari in particolari condizioni 
igieniche per dovere civile,” and the nuclear family, based as it is on the 
importance of individuals, will fall and be substituted by a “culto dell’insieme” 
(41) (read, I think, communistic, communal models of familial organization). 
But the author is hopeful that the current orientation of Italian society, in which 
there are “profondi contrasti,’ might end up being a transitional period that is 
moving toward the reconstitution of “un nuovo senso dell’individuo, pit vitale e 
generoso di quello che attualmente agonizza,” and into a future where “la 
differenza tra i sessi tornera nuovamente ad affermarsi e i compiti della donna 
torneranno ad essere di pitt femminea natura” (italics mine; 41-42). The hostility 
to “equality” that is perceptible throughout the essay here rises clearly to the 
surface, and sexual “difference” is embraced as the most hopeful and promising 
of models for the emergent modern Italian woman. 

This validation of difference permeates the remainder of the essay, in which 
the author discusses women’s roles in public political life, their proper position 


8 | have not investigated the issue of unwed mothers in postwar Italy in terms of statistics, 
but I cannot help but imagine that the attention given to them, both in this essay and in 
the subsequent section entitled “Che cosa devo rispondere al mio bambino: breve trattato 
di educazione sessuale,” is an indication that they were a fairly conspicuous group after 
the War, given the likelihood of extramarital sexual relationships, rape, and the death of 
fiancés in those unsettled wartime years. One cannot avoid thinking of Rossellini’s Pina 
(Anna Magnani) in the great Neo-realist film, Roma, Citta Aperta, who is killed before 
she can marry her unborn child’s father, or of Elsa Morante’s La Storia, in which the 
widowed Ida is raped by a young German soldier and bears, as unwed mother, the 
magically wonderful child, Useppe. 


187 Rebecca West 


within marriage (which, it is argued, should remain an indissoluble bond), 
prostitution, and women in the workplace.? Although the grounds upon which 
this validation of sexual difference is based are quite distinct from contemporary 
theories of difference — as seen most clearly in current philosophical and 
political theories and practices of the Diotima group of Verona and the Via 
Dogana Women’s Bookstore in Milan — it is nonetheless highly intriguing to see 
such a perspective as it was argued in 1952.!° Regarding politics, for example, 
the author writes that, rather than merely being folded into masculine political 
models and practices, women should recognize that “l’uomo tende a valersi 
della collaborazione della donna da un punto di vista tuttavia maschile,” and 
women should, therefore, see that “solo i problemi di carattere femminile 
debbano interessare la donna in quanto tale, e solo di quelli essa possa parlare in 
nome del suo sesso e con la consapevolezza di portare elementi nuovi nel coro 
maschile” (42). These “problems” of specific interest to the feminine sphere (but 


9 Although I cannot devote extended space to the topic of prostitution, I want at least to 
indicate how salient the issue of its regulation was in the immediate postwar. As 
Nerenberg writes: “One of the first legal battles to be waged in the newly formed 
Constitutional Republic of Italy concerned the state regulation of prostitution.” She goes 
on to note that while most industrialized nations abandoned regulationist practices after 
the War, in Italy “the state-sanctioned case chiuse remained open for business until 1958” 
(133). The fight for the abolition of case chiuse began in August 1948 “and continued 
until the Merlin Law was ratified in February 1958” (135), revealing “how fundamentally 
situated the issues of the state’s control over sexuality and the body are” (136) and how 
deeply intertwined are nationhood and the sexual realm. The state seeks to control all 
forms of “perversion” (birth control, abortion, homosexuality, prostitution) as it 
constitutes its identity. In Déttore’s brief treatment of the topic of prostitution, it is linked 
to the issue of the maintenance of premarital female virginity. Prostitution is based on 
two factors: that men have “una necessita fisiologica” for sex that makes it next to 
impossible for them to wait until marriage to fulfill their needs, and that women who 
have premarital sex are condemned . The solution, according to Déttore, is to be found 
“su un piano, non diremo religioso, ma di religiosita,” whereby both men and women 
recognize the “valore inferiore dell’atto sessuale in quanto tale, come puro sfogo fisico” 
(48-49 passim). In other words, when people have the right moral attitude toward sex, 
virginity will not be valued for the wrong reasons, and men and women alike will 
“control themselves” willingly until such time that the “real” point of sex (reproduction 
within the sanctity of marriage) can be reached. It hardly need be said that desire beyond 
the purely physiological does not enter into this view. 

10 See Cavarero, Muraro, and AA.VV. (Diotima) for individually and collectively 
authored works in which the concept of “la differenza sessuale” is theorized. Déttore’s 
views on female difference implicitly intertwine with his/her anxiety regarding the 
increasing “masculinization” of women, while Diotima’s perspectives concentrate on the 
positive construction of a symbolic order based not on an ostensibly “neuter” subject but 
rather on an explicit recognition and activation of sexed subjects at all levels of abstract 
thought and concrete action. 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 188 


why not men as well?) are primarily those that revolve around the areas of sex 
and work; in the first case, notions pertaining to female virginity, to marriage, 
and to prostitution should be politicized by women in the public sphere, just as 
the particular issues attaching to women in the workplace should be politicized. 
The author writes that women have not yet understood that men have tended so 
far to resolve issues of working women entirely to their — the men’s — 
advantage, as, for example, in less pay for the same work or in leaving the 
majority of housework and childcare to the woman. In spite of the validity and 
relative sensitivity of some of these views, the author nonetheless returns in the 
end to a heretofore veiled yet now evident preference for “una umanita in cui il 
lavoro dell’uomo sia sufficiente a garantire un comune benessere” (50), thus 
leaving women free from their current preoccupations with equal pay and equal 
social rights, which, as we have seen, are tending to “masculinize” them and to 
take them away from their fundamental role as mothers, a role that is heavily 
emphasized in the rest of the Enciclopedia. The essay ends with a summary 
statement of the intent of the portrait painted and the advice given in the 
preceding pages: “E stata nostra intenzione di tracciare un semplice e umano 
punto di vista per coloro che seguono faticosamente e pericolosamente il fatale 
cammino del tempi, i quali non sono luminosi né facili” (52). The undercurrent 
of unease, anxiety, and ambivalence perceptible throughout this essay is thus 
once more made explicit; these are not “luminous and easy times,” as old norms 
have dissolved, still yet to be replaced by new ones. The “woman problem” is 
obviously one of the most crisis-ridden sites of contention in postwar Italy, and 
the deep ambivalences and unresolved questions whirling about the feminine 
sphere ultimately penetrate into every corner of the emergent modern, 
democratic society being reconstructed in this crucial period of Italian history. 
As I have indicated above, the essay just discussed is the most “up-to-date” 
portion of the Enciclopedia. The following essays are dedicated exclusively to 
issues of childcare, as if the thorny issue of maternity, understood as a choice as 
well as a destiny, had not been broached and problematized within the context of 
complex social structures as well as in the private spaces of domestic life. In the 
essays, “Breve trattato di puericultura” and “la ginnastica del bambino” that 
come next, highly detailed information on everything from the baby’s physical 
development to his/her bedroom, from baby food to clothing, is given, replete 
with drawings and photographs. In the brief space remaining to me, I want, 
however, to discuss instead a portion of the section entitled “Che cosa devo 
rispondere al mio bambino: breve trattato di educazione sessuale,” in which an 
unchallenged bias against homosexuality is fully displayed. Unlike U. Dettore’s 
admonition in the preceding essay against the narrowmindedness shown in 
shunning unwed mothers, which today’s “modern” society must fight against, 
here the anonymous author writes a series of extremely conservative 
“conversations” between mother and son (unmistakeably, the child is male), 
based on a “recentissima,” quite “explicit” text by a Danish author, Ida Hést, 


189 Rebecca West 


which has been adapted to “il nostro spirito”; a spirit characterized as less used 
to what is termed the sometimes “originale crudezza” to which the Danes are 
accustomed where matters of sex are concerned. The tenth and final dialogue of 
this series of “chats on sex” is given over to the subject of homosexual relations, 
this after several dialogues about reproduction and birth, in which Mother begins 
by telling her son that they still need to talk about “un lato della vita sessuale” 
that he can hear now that he is “gia grandicello.” It is explained that “normal 
tendencies” follow a trajectory of love from mother first, to father, then to one’s 
contemporaries, and, finally, to the other sex. But, “non tutti gli uomini sono 
normali: alcuni rimangono ad uno stadio di sviluppo pit basso e accade allora 
che un uomo o una donna amino solo il proprio sesso.” This “lower level of 
development” is “una vera e propria malattia,” and it is not always curable, with 
the result that “questi malati possono amare soltanto i fanciulli.’ These 
“sickies,” called “omosessuali,” lure young boys with compliments, carry them 
away, and “infine, per non essere scoperti, li uccidono” (sic!) (all quotations 
from 165). Mother then explains that this is why she has always told her son to 
avoid strangers on the street who promise sweets and fun. She reiterates that 
there is no sure cure for this “sickness,” although happily, in “mild cases,” it can 
be overcome by the will and reason (since “tutti coloro che ne sono affetti si 
sentono inferiori agli altri e sarebbero felici di liberarsene” [166]). Having 
covered the entire topic of homosexuality in these brief remarks, Mother turns to 
the topic of masturbation, which seems, if only by contiguity, to be tied to 
homosexuality (although they are surely linked also as forms of non- 
reproductive sexual activity). She assures her son that masturbation does not 
lead to “paralysis and dementia,” but it does affect the memory and the 
intelligence of practitioners, and inevitably makes for a “melancholy and 
solitary” personality. Most important, it blocks smooth relations with women 
later in life — “il fanciullo che si abbandona a queste soddisfazioni, da adulto 
sara meno capace di avvicinarsi a una donna con onesta disinvoltura” — and the 
son should therefore seek the aid of Mother each and every time that he gives in 
to the urge, and she will help him to get over it, just as she would treat “una 
piccola ferita o una contusione.” Only if he follows Mother’s advice will the boy 
have the proper “base spirituale” upon which to build “una convivenza dei 
corpi” with the woman he will someday marry (all quotations from 167). 
Interestingly, this is the only “dialogue” that is in fact a monologue; the child’s 
voice, which is woven into the other nine chats, is entirely absent, as if the topics 
are simply too “hot” for the inclusion of a child’s perspective on them. In 
addition, the tone and language are more suitable to adult conversation than to a 
chat between a mother and her young child, so that the reader is left with the 
impression that he/she is being lectured rather than the “fanciullo grandicello.” 

It need hardly be noted that there is a completely untroubled confusion of 
homosexuality and pedophilia in this chat, just as there is an absolute assertion 
of the “sick” abnormality of same-sex preference. Although allusions are made 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 190 


to both boys and girls in the descriptions of homosexuality and masturbation, it 
is quite obviously the male version of these practices that is truly at issue. Both 
ruin the chances for a fulfilling sex life with the future wife imagined for the 
young boy, and thus traditional matrimony is still the inviolable normative 
model underpinning this exposition of deviant behavior. Although a previous 
chat dedicated to unwed mothers (again!) tells of past prejudice against these 
women (“un tempo la ragazza che aveva un bambino senza essere sposata era 
bandita dalla societa e disprezzata da tutti come se avesse commesso un 
vergognoso delitto”) and Mother proclaims that prejudice is now, happily, 
disappearing (“oggi consideriamo la cosa con molto maggiore umanita e 
riconosciamo che quella donna puo essere assai meno colpevole di quanto non si 
creda” [quotations from 161]), no connection is made between the “maggiore 
umanita” supported here and the subsequent, absolutely unforgiving views on 
homosexuality. It is difficult not to see in this disparity of attitudes the 
privileging of the reproductive sphere, and the concommitant disdain for and 
fear of a sexual orientation that is not primarily driven by reproductive values, as 
they have been held up by Church doctrine for centuries. How much of the 
completely condemnatory view of homosexuality expressed in this “chat” is 
conditioned as well by the recent Fascist Regime’s quasi-criminalization of it is 
not something that can be proven, yet it seems possible that this perspective is at 
least in part yet another trace of the lingering influence of the ventennio’s 
“rhetoric of virility’ (to use Barbara Spackman’s term).!! The fusing of 
homosexuality and pedophilia is still perceptible in many conservative 
discourses within Western societies, of course, as is the open demonization 
generally of same-sex preferences; in this area of human relations at least, little 
real progress has been made since the publication of the Enciclopedia almost 
fifty years ago. !2 


lina forthcoming essay, Armando Maggi notes that “according to a poll recorded in 
1987, homosexuals are the most ‘disliked’ social group (48%), followed by gypsies 
(45%) and foreigners (43%), that is, immigrants from Northern Africa, Eastern Europe, 
and the Philippines.” He goes on to remind us that “the notorious ‘Codice Rocco’ 
(Rocco’s Civil Law) , in force during the Fascist era, does not mention homosexuality at 
all. This apparent omission does not reflect an open-minded attitude toward homosexual 
practices. Given that Fascist legislation did not consider the ‘sodomitic crime,’ 
homosexuals were prey of public officials’ indisputable and totally personal decisions.” 
Even now, homosexuals are discharged from military service not because of a “crime,” 
but because of a “mental imbalance,” and this, among other practices, led “a group of 
Leftist intellectuals (among them Umberto Eco and Alberto Moravia)” [to write] in the 
journal “Critica Sociale” in 1968 that ‘in Italy political Fascism still survives in the form 
of sexual Fascism’” (1). See also Scalise’s 1996 Cose dell’altro mondo: viaggio 
nell’Italia gay. 

12 Although homosexuality has been removed from the official psychiatric handbook of 
mental illnesses in this country, its public presence is accepted with difficulty, as the 


191 Rebecca West 


In my final, necessarily brief, comments, I wish to note that the 
alphabetized entries that make up the remainder of this volume, while not 
entirely free from the usual emphasis on food, clothing, and other material 
aspects of traditional female domestic life as seen in much more openly 
conservative guides such as the Dizionario domestico, do nevertheless include 
more broadly social topics such as religion, shared human emotions and 
illnesses, aspects of law, and artistic movements and genres. The entries are, 
variously, descriptive, prescriptive, and instructional, and the many photographs 
of rooms, fashions, and household objects of the period in question form a 
valuable source of archival evidence pertaining to the practices of everyday life 
a half century ago. Much more “neutral” than the introductory essays, the 
listings could, for the most part, be as interesting to an undomestic man or 
woman as to those primarily engaged in “casalinghitudine.”!3 There is a sense in 
which the rich complexities and multifaceted realities of what is here defined as 
the “world of women” are heightened rather than minimized in the extraordinary 
variety of topics touched upon in almost 800 pages of alphabetized entries. The 
Enciclopedia della donna is a hybrid text whose mixing of high cultural and 
broadly social concerns with everyday material realities such as food preparation 
and home decorating ultimately (and most likely unwittingly) reveals the deep 
connections between these ostensibly separate realms of human social existence, 


recent flap over Ellen De Generes’s television coming-out show attests. In Italy, a 
country deeply conditioned by the Church’s official and unofficial pronouncements 
regarding sex and the family, both male homosexuals and lesbians have not made many 
significant inroads into spaces of public acceptance, as any even casual survey of popular 
media shows. Nonetheless, Maggi writes that “some Italian cities have recently decided 
to recognize gay couples. In June 1996, Pisa has introduced the so-called ‘Civic Union’ 
(unione civile) that legalizes gay and lesbian couples.” Generally, though, gays in Italy 
are seen as a “marginal” and “thus unthreatening phenomenon,” and are treated with 
either “contempt” or “irony” (2). 

13 | take the term “casalinghitudine” from Clara Sereni’s 1987 novel of the same name. 
See Miceli Jeffries’s “Caring and Nurturing in Italian Women’s Theory and Fiction: A 
Reappraisal,” for a thoughtful consideration of this novel and of other texts in which the 
“interactionality and self-reflectivity [sic] of women operating in and within the domestic 
sphere” are validated (90). Miceli Jeffries argues that a view of women’s practices of 
domestic caring as “essentialist” and “politically ineffective” — a view held by certain 
academic theorists of gender — is wrong. Although she concedes that “women need as 
much, and maybe more, infrastructural support than cooking skills and nurturing attitudes 
to go about their daily lives as mothers and productive individuals,” it is nonetheless true, 
Miceli Jeffries insists, that these primarily “feminine practices” deserve “political 
legitimacy,” because “the choice to be nurturing, caring individuals is a truly political and 
consequential issue in women’s lives” (104). The Enciclopedia that I have considered in 
this essay certainly supports such a view in the obvious seriousness of its impostazione, 
as well as in its joining of “infrastructural supports” both domestic and broadly social. 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 192 


and it hints indirectly that creativity is to be found in the artisanal activities of 
homelife as well as in the institutionalized Arts. If conservative attitudes 
regarding the family and the maternal role of women dominate the introductory 
essays, there is nonetheless to be found in the body of the volume an attempt at 
broadening the horizons of women’s lives, at valorizing the domestic sphere 
(and implicitly showing its connection with the public sphere), and at telling a 
postwar female audience in search of new directions that a desire to know about 
both the “reggipetto” and ‘religione,” or about both the “tribunale per i 
minorenni” and “triglia” is quite valid. It is, in the final analysis, the eccentric 
and very human arbitrariness of the listings, as well as the anxious unease and 
lack of sureties that characterize the first essay, that make up the enormous 
appeal of this book, which is, I believe, a valuabie “cultural document” of 
postwar Italy for today’s men and women alike. 


3. Brief Postscript for My Mother, and for The Italian Woman Whose Book This 
First Was 

In 1950, when this Enciclopedia della donna was published in its “sesta 
edizione riveduta e ampliata,” my mother was twenty-eight years old, with one 
daughter of eight years and another (me) of almost four. Her husband (our 
father) was back from the War, working long hours as a welder, and she was 
already taking in work as a seamstress in order to meet the mortgage payments 
on our first real house. Her attention was on domestic work, and my father’s was 
on bringing home the bacon for her to fry, yet they both were already making a 
place for books and music in our home, and both were already dreaming of a 
great future for their daughters. If that young “American couple” of the 
mechanized house, the dinners out of tin cans, and evenings out on the town 
existed then, they did not live in our neighborhood, filled with other working- 
class families, home-cooked meals, and women hanging their wash out on 
backyard clotheslines. Who knows what idea my parents might have had of the 
lives of young postwar Italian families, had they ever thought of people so far 
off? My father had been in Italy during the War, but years later, when I asked 
him about his memories of that country, he conjured up only visions of struggle, 
poverty, destruction. My parents might have had as monolithic and stereotyped 
an idea of young Italians as the idea of Americans propounded in the 
Enciclopedia: huge pasta dinners with extended families, passionate flare-ups 
with hand gestures flying, lots of wine, sun, music. What was the daily reality of 
the Italian woman who first owned this volume? Did reading it help her to find 
her way through everyday tasks and to understand broad social issues? Did her 
bossy mother-in-law give the book to her, and so, in spite, she tucked it away in 
the corner of a shelf, where it stayed until somehow ending up, in 1996, in a 
bookshop in Florence? I would like to know the answers to these questions, for 
they have to do with the “who-ness” rather than the “what-ness” of unique 
women, whose lives were no doubt “guided” by people, things, and forces that 








193 Rebecca West 


cannot be found in even the most inclusive of guidebooks, but which are the 
very stuff of humanly meaningful “cultural studies.” 


The University of Chicago 


Works Consulted 


Allen, Beverly and Mary Russo, eds. Revisioning Italy: National Identity and Global 
Culture. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1997. 
Baranski, Zygmunt G. and Shirley W. Vinall. eds. Women and Italy: Essays on Gender, 
Culture and History. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1991. 
Birnbaum, Lucia Chiavola. Liberazione della donna: Feminism in Italy. Middletown, 
Conn.: Wesleyan UP, 1986. 
Cavarero, Adriana. Tu che mi guardi, tu che mi racconti. Milan: Feltrinelli, 1997. 
. “Chi fa politica?” unpublished manuscript, 1998. 
Dau Novelli, Cecilia. Sorelle d'Italia: Casalinghe, impiegate e militanti nel Novecento. 
Roma: Editrice A.V.E., 1996. 
De Giorgio, Michela. Le italiane dall’unita ad oggi: modelli culturali e comportamenti 
sociali. Roma: Editori Laterza, 1992. 
De Giorgio, Michela and Christiane Klapisch-Zuber, ed. Storia del matrimonio. Bari: 
Editori Laterza, 1996. 
De Grazia, Victoria. How Fascism Ruled Women: Italy 1922-1945. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1992. 
Diotima (AA.VV.) II pensiero della differenza sessuale. Milano: La Tartaruga, 1987. 
. Oltre l’uguaglianza: Le radici femminili dell’autorita. Napoli: Liguori Editore, 
1995: 
Forgacs, David and Robert Lumley, eds. Italian Cultural Studies: An Introduction. 
Oxford: UP, 1996. 
Forgacs, David. “Cultural Consumption, 1940s to 1990s. ” Ed. David Forgacs and Robert 
Lumley. Jtalian Cultural Studies: An Introduction 273-90. 
Haggerty, George, ed. The Encyclopedia of Homosexuality: Gay Histories and Cultures. 
Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press (forthcoming). 
Maggi, Armando. “Italy.” The Encyclopedia of Homosexuality: Gay Histories and 
Cultures. Ed. George Haggerty. 
Macciocchi, Maria Antonietta. La donna “nera”: “consenso” femminile e fascismo. 
Milano: Feltrinelli, 1976. 
Mammarella, Giuseppe. Jtaly After Fascism, 1943-65. Notre Dame: U of Notre Dame P, 
1966. 
Miceli Jeffries, Giovanna, ed. Feminine Feminists: Cultural Practices in Italy. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1994. 
. “Caring and Nurturing in Italian Women’s Theory and Fiction: A Reappraisal.” 
Miceli Jeffries 87-108. 
Muraro, Luisa. L ’ordine simbolico della madre. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1991. 
Nerenberg, Ellen Victoria. “Habeas Corpus: The Gendered Subject in Prison. The Prose 


A Postwar, Pre-Boom Enciclopedia della donna 194 


of Containment in Mid-Twentieth Century Italian Literature.” Unpublished doctoral 
dissertation. University of Chicago, 1993. [See also “Love for Sale” in this volume. ] 

Palazzi, S. and D. Bencetti, eds. Dizionario domestico (tutto per la casa). Milano: Casa 
Editrice Ceschina, 1952. 

Pickering-Iazzi, Robin, ed. Mothers of Invention: Women, Italian Fascism, and Culture. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1995. 

. Politics of the Visible: Writing Women, Culture, and Fascism. Minneapolis: U of 

Minnesota P, 1997. 

Pinkus, Karen. Bodily Regimes: Italian Advertising Under Fascism. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1995. 

Re. Lucia. “Fascist Theories of ‘Woman’ and the Construction of Gender.” Ed. Robin 
Pickering-Iazzi. Mothers of Invention 76-99. 

Scalise, Daniele. Cose dell’altro mondo. Viaggio nell’Italia gay. Milano: Zelig Editore, 
1996. 

Spackman, Barbara. Fascist Virilities: Rhetoric, Ideology, and Social Fantasy in Italy. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1996. 

Torriglia, Anna Maria. “Textualizing Reconstruction: Postwar, Pre-Boom Italy in Cinema 
and Prose Fiction.” Unpublished doctoral dissertation. University of Chicago, 1995. 

Ugo, Bianca, ed. Enciclopedia della donna. Sesta edizione riveduta e ampliata. Milano: 
Casa Editrice Bianchi-Giovini, 1950. 

Ward, David. Antifascisms: Cultural Politics in Italy 1943-46: Benedetto Croce and the 
Liberals, Carlo Levi and the “Activists.” Madison: Farleigh Dickinson Press 
(Associated University Presses), 1996. 

Wood, Sharon. /talian Women’s Writing 1860-1994. London: The Athlone Press, 1995. 

Zarri, Gabriela, with the collaboration of Claudia Pancino and Fiorenza Tarozzi. La 
memoria di lei: storia delle donne, storia di genere. Torino: Societa Editrice 
Internazionale, 1996. 


Photograph 





Jacqueline Reich 


Consuming Ideologies: 
Fascism, Commodification, and Female Subjectivity in Mario 
Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 


Introduction 

Italy in the 1930s was a society in the throes of rapid transformation. On the 
political front, the Fascist regime attempted to further solidify its domestic and 
international power with continued imperialist and expansionist enterprises. 
Economically, the country’s pace toward a more modern phase of industrialization 
quickened, due to the regime’s focus on corporativist legislation, autarchic policies, 
and technological advances. Culturally, this emphasis on industry and technology 
spurred the rise of the mass media. Radio, cinema, and publishing all flourished 
during the Fascist period in Italy, on the one hand due to their function as a means 
of aiding in creating cultural consensus and on the other due to the incredible profit 
potential these cultural industries offered through sales and advertising (Forgacs 55- 
93); 

With the progressive opening of new markets and arenas of production, Italian 
men and women came to be looked upon as consumers as well as producers of 
goods. This emphasis on individual consumption over individual production 
continued a pattern of development which had commenced with the gradual 
industrialization of Italian society at the turn of the century. The various policies of 
the 1930s contributed to this shift in focus. The colonies created new markets; 
corporativism consolidated and strengthened Italian industrial output, while 
autarchy guaranteed its demand; and the politically-aligned mass media (in 
particular the radio and the press) heavily promoted Fascist Italy’s products to its 
many consumers. 

Following the pattern of other industrialized nations such as the United States, 
the main targets of this consumer-oriented economy were women, for it was they 
who, even if they did not make the money they were spending, held the major 
purchasing power.' The advertising used to sell the products deliberately aimed at 
women often took an ideological stance. Consider, for example, this popular 
advertisement for an Italian body lotion circa 1936: 


Pirandello ha detto che il corpo della donna é il premio divino concesso all’uomo per 


' For how women’s role as consumers blossomed during and after the Ethiopian campaign, 
see De Grazia 82-87. 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


196 Jacqueline Reich 


compensarlo di tutte le fatiche. Si ha quindi il dovere di preservarlo, conservarlo, e 
occorrendo reintegrarlo. A questi tre scopi risponde pienamente la crema DIADERMINA.” 


This advertising copy, with its amusing use of a Nobel prize-winning author to 
peddle a woman’s hygiene product, promoted not only the lotion as a product 
designed for consumption by the female consumer. Implicit in this and many other 
auxiliary texts produced during the Fascist period, be they advertisements, popular 
magazines, or films, was the corroboration of many of the regime’s ideological 
imperatives for its female subjects. These supplementary narratives contained a set 
of beliefs that they employed to sell the product and to sell along with the product. 
The product designated for consumption was not just the commodity itself but also 
the ideology that dictated its proper means of consumption and its proper use- 
function.’ In this case, the Diadermina advertisement attempted to market its proper 
functional and social use: a woman as a man’s “prize,” defined not as an 
autonomous social subject but rather in service to male desires. Moreover, it was 
her “duty” to render her body pleasing to a man and do everything necessary to 
fulfill her obligation. This notion of the woman as subservient to the man was not 
only characteristic of the patriarchal nature of Italian society of the 1930s. Fascist 
social policies and political objectives reinforced this gender hierarchy, 
subordinating women’s rights through legislation in both the public and private 
spheres. 

This idea of consumer culture as selling not only a product but also a “way of 
life” is also applicable to cinema, and particularly to Italian commercial cinema of 
late Fascism. An extremely lucrative cultural industry, cinema in general provides 
occasions for commercial consumption on several basic levels: buying a ticket to 
see a particular film signals participation in a consumer exchange; theaters are often 
located in downtown shopping districts; and many films themselves feature products 
(commodity tie-ins) which are then sold in retail outlets to help promote a film (and 
naturally increase its revenues). Furthermore, like most commodities, a film 
incorporates an ideology which it attempts to sell to its audience through its 
characters, its narrative, and the extra-cinematic materials created to promote the 
product. This ideological effect is particularly resonant for Fascist Italy, whose 
cinematic production was aligned with the regime’s politics and policies. Like the 
Diadermina advertisement quoted above, feature films produced in Italy from 1936 
and 1943 in a certain sense attempted to “sell” the contemporary spectator not only 
the film as commodity but also the “Fascist way of life: how they could become 
proper Fascist subjects by identifying with (or “consuming") those characters who 
personified proper Fascist ideals. 


? Cine-Illustrato 8. 584 (26 settembre 1936): 2. For a fascinating study on advertising during 
Fascism, see Pinkus. 

* For more on the relationship between advertising, consumption, and ideology, consult 
Ewen. 


Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 197 


Mario Camerini’s 1939 film Grandi magazzini appears on the surface to 
conform to this model of film as both commodity and ideology. The love story 
framed in the “Grand Emporium” serves, as James Hay has argued, as the perfect 
stage for a clash of social, economic, and cultural forces (104-11). Naturally, all 
conflicts are resolved in accordance with the codes of classical Hollywood-style 
cinema, in whose image Grandi magazzini was clearly fashioned: the villains are 
apprehended, and the destined lovers are united. The film clearly delineates 
between right and wrong, with the female protagonist, Lauretta, in the end providing 
the proper model of behavior corresponding to Fascist gender ideology. 

However, Grandi magazzini is not just a simple “good triumphs over evil” and 
“love conquers all” love story. Instead, the commodities offered up for consumption 
in this example of Italian cinema during the Fascist period do not present a portrait 
of a happy, homogenous Italian society. Camerini, who often created controversy 
with his films, created a text which openly deals with such taboo themes as the 
economic hardships encountered by the new urban lower-middle class, in particular 
women, as well as the sexual harassment they had to deal with in the workplace. 
Furthermore, both the film and the extra-cinematic discourse designed to promote 
it presented multiple images and points of view, many of which directly clashed 
with Fascist gender constructs. The female protagonist’s “ideal” model of behavior 
actually transgresses the prescribed social, moral, and sexual norms for women so 
widely propagated by the regime. Although the film’s conclusion neatly ties the 
loose ends together and solidifies the social and sexual order, the overall image 
being sold to the audience, and the female spectator in particular, is conflicted at 
best. 


Buying and Believing: Fascism and Consumer Culture 

While the Italian economy struggled to stay afloat during the depression-racked 
years of the 1930s, a new consumer culture slowly expanded in Italy. The emphasis 
on modernity and all the comforts and conveniences it allowed (imbedded in Fascist 
propaganda), the expansion of the publishing industry into mass-marketing, the 
growth of the advertising industry as a result of expanding markets, and the 
pervasive influence of American capitalist and consumer-oriented culture all 
increased the desire for material goods. The primary target of this new mass culture 
was the growing urban lower-middle and middle class. With the emphasis on 
industrial modernization focused in the urban centers, internal migration reached 
record numbers. Men and women flooded the cities of the North looking for a better 
way of life and a higher standard of living. In addition, opportunities for spending 
one’s money multiplied. In the mid-1930s, leisure time for the average worker 
increased due to official legislation mandating the adoption of the forty hour work 
week. Certainly, the OND (Opera nazionale del dopolavoro), the Fascist party 
umbrella organization created to organize and regulate extra-labor activities, 
attempted to capitalize on this new, disposable free time. It used its power to 


198 Jacqueline Reich 


promote the regime’s politics and policies through government sponsored leisure 
time activities, such as sporting events and tourist excursions. 

One sector of the population which experienced the repercussions of these 
shifts in traditional recreational patterns was the young, single women who either 
lived or worked in the cities. The workplace and organized leisure activities 
provided liberation from the often rigid confines of family life. In the domestic 
sphere, she also came to wield greater economic power with the rise of commercial 
culture. A new “culture of domesticity” developed, in which family life, and by 
extension the welfare of the nation, would be improved by the purchase of new 
commodities (De Grazia 1992, 207, 226). It was the matriarch of the family who, 
for the most part, controlled domestic monetary affairs. Wives and mothers 
administered the money and kept track of finances, in direct contrast to their 
socially and politically defined position as passive reproducers of the Italian race. 

Nevertheless, an interesting paradox emerges when these expanding 
opportunities are interpreted in light of the country’s economic instability in the 
1930s. For many Italians, this exposure to commercial culture increased the desire 
for new commodities. At the same time, economic hardships made access to 
participation in this culture extremely difficult. Thus, a new means of consumption 
came to fill the void created by the chasm between supply and demand: the 
commodity fetish, whereby the commodity becomes not only a physical entity but 
also a representation, a symbol, a visual image to be consumed by the very masses 
who labor to produce them. ° The commodity fetish functions along these lines: 
instead of the consumer purchasing the commodity itself, the pleasure of 
contemplating the image substitutes for the impulse to possess the object of 
consumption. He or she “acquires” the commodity thorough his or her gaze, 
attempting to satisfy desire through visual apprehension. In this scenario, the 
customer assumes the role of spectator. The store window becomes the screen onto 
which material longing is projected and satiated at least temporarily (Friedberg 65- 
68). 

Fascist party politics reinforced this non-material participation in the growing 
consumer market. Achille Starace, the head of the Fascist Party from 1931 to 1939, 
took advantage of the dearth of commodities, the plethora of desire, and the mass 
media. During the economic shortages of the late 1930s, he stressed instead the 
consumption of leisure through the development of the entertainment industry, 
naturally in line with OND imperatives. The OND also attempted to mediate 


* For more on the regime’s hold over leisure time activities, see De Grazia (1981). 

° Marx was among the first to observe that commodities represent more than just the physical 
product released into the marketplace: “This I call the Fetishism which attaches itself to the 
products of labour, so soon as they are produced as commodities, and which is therefore 
inseparable from the production of commodities” (81-96). While Marx’s frame of reference 
was the “peculiar social character of the labour” that produces the commodity, I take the 
notion to include the means of production, distribution, and circulation. 





Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 199 


potential consumer behavior. In addition to homogenizing class differences and de- 
politicizing the working class to whom its programs were primarily directed, it 
managed to encourage consumption of goods (such as radios and discounted movie- 
tickets) which would in turn aid the regime in creating cultural consensus. The OND 
gave the product an endorsement which was hard to refute and even harder to refuse 
(De Grazia 1981, 152-59). 

Cinema was the beneficial recipient of the OND’s promotion of mass-media. 
Much of mass-media production during the Fascist period in general reflected by 
necessity an overall complicity with the regime: its ambitions to create a 
coordinated populace, its social and moral values, and even many of its political 
policies. Select feature films, LUCE documentaries, and state radio programming 
provided an excellent means for the dissemination of propaganda. In addition to 
being an area of heightened government intervention in the 1930s, films in many 
ways placed the “New Italy” on display as commodity.° Included in this self- 
promotion was the marketing of Fascist subjectivity. Italian commercial cinema 
attempted to project the Fascist ideal of masculinity and femininity in accordance 
with the regime’s directives: films packaged and sold the proper gender discourse 
to the audience. 


Fascism, Commodification, and Female Subjectivity in Grandi Magazzini 
Cinema allows for this collusion of ideology, entertainment and consumption 
through its very nature as both an art form and a cultural industry with the purpose 
of educating and/or entertaining the masses. Film scholars of what has come to be 
called film commodity theory have isolated three fundamental ways in which film 
viewing and consumerism intersect.’ First, there is the individual film as a 
commodity - it is a product released into the greater marketplace for consumption 
by the film-going public. The cinema theater, in this sense, assumes the role of retail 
space, with its vibrant marquees and exterior publicity displays functioning in the 
same manner as storefront and window displays created to attract customers. 
Second, there is the commodity tie-in, which can take two forms: either a brand- 
name product which is featured in the films, or a product which is produced and 
marketed out of the film. The Italian film industry deliberately attempted to lure 
marketing tie-ins, having not only the perfect showcase but also free advertising (the 
film itself) and previously contracted spokespeople (the actors and actresses bound 
to the films).° 


° In The Culture of Consent De Grazia uses this term in reference to OND policies, but the 
phrase is particularly appropriate for the study of Italian cinema during the Fascist period 
(1779): 

” My thinking here is influenced by the Frankfurt school and various film theorists who have 
adapted their ideas to the cinema: Horkheimer and Adorno 120-67; Benjamin 217-51; 
Adorno 128-35; Allen 481-99; Doane 22-33; Eckert 1-21; and Renov 1-21. 

* Horkheimer and Adorno add that the iconic representation of the actors and actresses in the 


200 Jacqueline Reich 


Finally, there are ideological implications: the spectator becomes the consumer 
not only of the film as commodity but also of the film’s ideology. From the point 
of view of the audience, the spectator consumes both the product (i.e., the film) and 
its message. From the point of view of the text, the audience is sold a certain model 
of behavior, set of beliefs, and way of life. In this sense, film serves as a vehicle for 
socialization, nationalization, and homogenization. Ultimately, this collusion of 
image and ideology results in an attempt to standardize both social and consumer 
conduct. Movies supply not only images for consumption but also images of 
commodity consumption as model behavior. Films would tell the spectator what and 
how to buy and, in doing so, how to behave and what to say in accordance with 
ideological imperatives.” 

In Fascist Italy, films marketed Fascist Italy as mass commodity, with one of 
the many commodity tie-ins being proper female subjectivity in accordance with the 
dominant ideology. It must be remembered that women made up the majority of the 
film-going public, particularly when most men were off fighting the war, and were 
the target readers of the fan magazines used to publicize the recent releases. Many 
film genres, such as the schoolgirl comedy and the maternal melodrama, actively 
spoke to a female audience. The female spectator was intended to consume both 
images of commodities and commodified images of ideological correctness - as 
both spectator and consumer, she would buy the ticket to the show and buy into the 
lifestyle and/or message projected onto the screen. '° 

Mario Camerini’s Grandi magazzini is a paradigmatic text for the application 
of film commodity theory as well as a perfect model for its subversive and 
conflictual potential. The film begins with Bruno (played by Vittorio De Sica) 
gaining employment as a delivery truck driver at a department store, appropriately 
named Grandi Magazzini. There he meets Lauretta (Assia Noris), a virtuous 
salesgirl of leisure attire. In a crowded elevator, he initially accuses her of stealing 
his wallet which he had only misplaced. Soon after, mesmerized by her beauty and 
simplicity, Bruno falls in love with her. Although she initially rejects him, Lauretta 
becomes jealous when Bruno begins to pay attention to Anna, a suspicious co- 
worker. When Anna invites Bruno skiing, Lauretta decides to steal a ski outfit from 
the store and chase after Bruno. After Bruno and Anna’s subsequent trip to the 


film also constitutes a form of advertising or tie-in: “The highest-paid stars resemble pictures 
advertising unspecified proprietary articles.” “The Culture Industry,” 156. 

° Laplace cites the 1940s Hollywood women’s film role in creating a new “female market,” 
in which “women’s desires for sexuality, power, freedom and pleasure could be channeled 
into the passive purchase and consumption of mass-produced commodities” (139). 

'° De Grazia (1991): 129. Brunetta, in his work on spectatorship and Italian cinema, argues 
that cinema was more enticing to women than it was to men. In his research, he also 
discovered that female readers/spectators would often make photo albums dedicated to their 
favorite stars using cut-outs from fan magazines and newspapers (18, 127-28). For more on 
the schoolgirl comedy and female spectatorship, see Reich 220-51. 


Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 201 


mountains, during which they consummate their love (the scene is of course only 
alluded to), they become engaged. Meanwhile, Lauretta is being sexually harassed 
by the personnel director, Bertini, but continues to fend off his advances. A scandal 
erupts in the store when it appears that some packages have been rerouted and 
stolen. Bertini privately accuses Lauretta to Bruno - the director had discovered her 
theft of the ski outfit and, in order to solidify his accusations, conveniently planted 
a package of presumably stolen stockings in her locker. Bruno, shocked, breaks off 
their engagement, leaving Lauretta heartbroken. Bertini then uses his “discovery” 
to blackmail Lauretta into meeting him after hours. Meanwhile, Lauretta’s 
roommate, Emilia, who had left her husband Maurizio because he had been 
unfaithful to her, learns she is pregnant. Maurizio, upon hearing the news, returns 
and begs forgiveness. All three proceed to the store to prepare for decorations for 
the Christmas season. Lauretta, in a fit of desperation, contemplates suicide by 
throwing herself down an elevator shaft. Instead she screams and faints when she 
sees a mannequin Maurizio had made in Bruno’s likeness, spurring a guard to sound 
the alarm. At the same time, the culprits, who include Bertini and Anna, are about 
to make one of their “deliveries” of stolen goods. Bruno, finally realizing the truth, 
pursues them - a gangster-style car chase ensues. In the end, Bertini and his cohorts 
are arrested, and Bruno and Lauretta are reunited. 

The film premiered at the 1939 Venice Film Festival, where it was well 
received by both the audience and the critics. Paola Ojetti, in commenting for the 
magazine Film, wrote: “tutto scorre via limpido e chiaro e la vicenda convince 
come se la avessimo vissuta noi stessi” (qtd. Savio 166). Mario Gromo in Corriere 
della sera notes that the film is “tutto condotto con quell’ intelligente accuratezza 
che contraddistingue i film di Camerini” (114). However, the Catholic Cinematic 
Censorship board (the CCC) was not in agreement, recommending restricted 
viewing access, as it often did. It found that film contained “[t]roppi chiari accenni 
a relazioni illecite e tutto un vago senso di amoralita che pervade la vicenda” (Nuovi 
materiali). 

The department store itself plays a fundamental role in the film as both 
historical entity and cinematic symbol. Cities became extravagant showcases for the 
fruits of new industry, technology, and increased national production. Prominent 
among the city’s new architectural structures were the shopping arcades. These 
precursors to the modern-day mall were an early manifestation of the use of display 
in encouraging the burgeoning consumer culture which would come to dominate 
twentieth century western society, creating a new commercial aesthetic utilizing 
color, glass, mirrors and light. The department store, while a dominant force in the 
United States and Northern Europe at the turn of the century, in Italy lagged behind 
in development, due in part to the slower growth of the urban middle class, who 
were the store’s primary clients. Nevertheless, by the time Grandi magazzini was 
made, La Rinascente, Italy’s most popular department store, had outlets in Italy’s 
five largest cities, and the smaller Standa and Upim chains had stores in close to 


202 Jacqueline Reich 


forty other cities or towns. Not solely a site of consumption, the grandi magazzini 
became a place, much like the piazza, where the urban middle class would 
increasingly spend its leisure time (Leach 39-150; De Grazia, 203-4). 

The rise of the department store also brought women into the public sphere. 
Female consumers were more often than not the primary subject of address of the 
commercial establishment. More women were employed than ever before as retail 
buyers, merchandising and advertising managers, personnel directors, and, of 
course, salesgirls and saleswomen. Many buyers led glamorous lives and traveled 
abroad extensively. On the service end, women were viewed as better at treating the 
customer as a guest. Moreover, they offered the possibility of cheaper labor: 
women’s salaries were far below their male counterparts in all areas of the industry 
(Leach, 37, 95-97; Friedberg, 37). 

In Grandi magazzini, the department store’s public spaces - its main lobby, the 
rotunda, the elevator, and individual floors - are the main setting for the action. 
Crane shots, pans, and extreme long shots serve to highlight the set’s architectural 
splendor as well as establish continuity of space. Camerini even admitted to having 
embellished the set, adding an unreal and exaggerated aspect to what the typical 
Rinascente would have looked like.'' But there were also many realistic touches, 
such as that very notion of “splendor:” the glass, the mirrors, the elevators, the 
grand staircases were all essential elements in any department store. The spatial 
divisions of the store are in keeping with the norm. The sales force is skillfully 
trained and strictly supervised. 

The department store also functions in the film, as James Hay has argued, as 
the arena for class and social confrontation as well as the locus of resolution (Hay 
104-11). The final chaotic fight between Bruno and Bertini takes place between the 
displays of merchandise, on the descending elevator, and amidst the panicky throng 
of Christmas shoppers. The film’s concluding sequence crystallizes the resolution 
of the film’s conflicts and the restoration of the proper social, sexual, and moral 
order: the criminals have been apprehended, Emilia and Maurizio are together again 
and expecting a baby, and Lauretta and Bruno are destined for familial bliss. The 
happy end is sealed with a telling final image of the two couples looking silently but 
admiringly at a display (created by none other than Maurizio) of baby dolls dancing 
dreamily in the store’s window. In a shot/reverse shot sequence, the four characters 
first “consume” the image (and familial discourse) in the window. They then 
become “images” to be consumed by the spectator as they are photographed, in the 
reverse shot, through that very window, an effect underscored in several instances 
during the film when Bruno and Lauretta assume the guise of store mannequins. The 
final sequence is thus a perfect illustration of the film commodity theory as outlined 
above: the spectator is supposed to “buy” not only the film as commodity but also 
the film’s message of familial, marital and social harmony. 

The characters and everything they personify become commodified not only 


'! Interview with Savio 1, 218. 


Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 203 


as figures on the screen but also as products on display for consumption. As if to 
reinforce this point, the two couples are joined by Bruno’s friend Gaetano who, in 
the final reverse shot, looks first at the window and then at each couple. He is the 
envious spectator, desiring both the commodities in the window and the happiness 
each couple is experiencing. Gaetano also provides direction for the spectatorial 
gaze, who sees a superimposition of characters, display, and glass reflection. His 
gaze isolates the various elements thrown together, making order of their totality by 
breaking them down into commodity fetishes. 

This process of visual and ideological apprehension, however, is not without 
holes. Indeed, one of the traps film commodity theory falls into is its adherence to 
conspiracy-oriented theories, by assuming that the spectator has no choice but to 
resign him or herself to being manipulated. In Fascist Italy, this idea of deliberate 
use of strategic images in order to propagate certain codes and modes of behavior 
is not completely off-base, especially since government involvement in the film 
industry was wide-spread in the 1930s. Yet despite this government intervention, 
Italian Fascism never had a far-reaching and all-encompassing command over the 
film industry for several reasons. First, the regime expressed a surprisingly vast 
attitude of tolerance with respect to intellectual activity and freedom. The 
relationship between regime and filmmakers remained more a question of the 
former’s influence rather than absolute control over the latter. Second, Italian 
commercial cinema, in looking for a guaranteed model of financial and artistic 
success, turned to the United States, and to Hollywood in particular, for industrial 
and aesthetic inspiration. The model in this case was the Hollywood shop girl film, 
which depicted a young female worker’s struggle to remain chaste and pure despite 
many obstacles and temptations.'* These types of films, taken out of the context of 
American society and placed in the context of Fascist Italy, had much of the same 
effect as did the abundance of American literature translated into Italian during the 
ventennio: they introduced divergent representations to the ones propagated by the 
regime. American culture’s mythic portrayals of freedom, modernity, and wealth 
came to embody the desires of a new generation of both men and women. 

This lack of monolithic authority over the filmmaking process created the 
opportunity for openings in the filmic text in which subtle opposition to the 
dominant ideology could emerge. Camerini was a filmmaker whose work best 
illustrates these slippages. His films are examples of texts which at the same time 
adhere to and also challenge many tenets of Fascist ideology and their impact on 
Italian society. Best remembered for what critics have called his pentologia piccolo- 


'2 Haralovich 172-87. There are notable differences between the shop girl film and Grandi 
magazzini. In the American films, the female protagonist is not only a salesgirl but often an 
in-store model, thus reinforcing her status as commodity. Through her virtue and good will 
she is rewarded with marriage into a higher social class. Lauretta, on the other hand, does 
not advance economically or socially. This latter difference is crucial, for the image being 
sold in the Italian film preserves the social and economic status quo. 


204 Jacqueline Reich 


borghese, a series of five sentimental comedies featuring either or both Vittorio De 
Sica and Assia Noris (Gli uomini che mascalzoni (1932), Dard un milione (1935), 
Ma non una cosa seria (1936), Il signor Max (1937) and finally Grandi magazzini), 
Camerini was often criticized for his realistic portrayal of the lower classes by those 
in power, who preferred escapist parlor comedies featuring the upper classes. 
Camerini’s filmic vision is polarized between the honest, simple and humble poor 
and the self-centered, dishonest, and detestable rich. The protagonists are often at 
odds with their environment, struggling to adapt to a rapidly evolving modern 
society and simultaneously adhering to their own moral values. 

The nature of the film itself as a cultural and artistic medium allows for 
multiple points of view. Textual boundaries in the cinema are not fixed by nature; 
they are easily permeated from without and from within by conflicting discourses 
and their subjective interpretations in the extra-cinematic context. With respect to 
gender subjectivity, what is sold to the audience is not perfectly sealed, wrapped, 
and ribboned; the folds remain open for the negotiation of meaning. This 
manipulation is made possible through the gaps in those very cinematic mechanisms 
on which this effect relies: commodification, identification and consumption. 

Films, much like department store windows, display objects in fetishized form 
as commodities. The cinematic apparatus works to glamorize the commodity fetish, 
adding an erotic component to it in order to foster desire (and hence consumption). 
The objects subject to fetishization can range from characters to the subject matter 
to products featured in the mise-en-scéne. In encouraging the female spectator to 
desire the commodified entities projected on the screen, Mary Ann Doane observes 
that the traditional subject/object dichotomy between spectator and image has the 
potential to collapse into one of narcissistic apprehension through the fetishization 
of the image.'? This collapse of subject and object also fosters identification 
between character and spectator. The female protagonist of Ada Negri’s short story 
“Il cinematografo,” written during the Fascist period, illustrates the often 
unconscious nature of this process: “She’s not aware of how it happens, but 
beginning with the first scenes, she completely identifies with the leading lady’s 
character. She enters her world; she loves and hates, sins and takes risks, is joyful, 
suffers, triumphs, entirely absorbed within the character” (Negri 58-62).Both the 
commodity fetish and identificatory practices can have the effect of reinforcing 
existing, patriarchal structures and forms of identity. However, it is my central 
thesis that they also have the potential to subvert and transcend them. Why? 
Because spectatorship, like consumption, cannot be completely controlled; both are 
active processes which have the potential to be liberating.'* Although certainly 


'? Doane 22-33. See also Mulvey 3-20. 

'* Scholars of commercial culture tend to differ vociferously about the various degrees of 
freedom the consumer actually possessed as the subject in and of mass consumption. For 
Horkheimer and Adorno, the cultural industry represses rather than sublimates: consumption 
buys into the system and thus promotes resignation to it. Benjamin disagrees. The purpose 


Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 205 


situated within the rigid structures of an economic system (be it communist, 
capitalist, or corporativist), the consumer does have a limited sense of power. He 
or she plays an important role in determining both production and marketing. 
Extending this notion to the cinema, the spectator assumes not a passive but rather 
an active and unregulated role in the consumption of the films’ commodities and its 
ideologies, and hence in the interpretation and production of its meaning. Just as 
there is little way to regulate consumption of a particular product, there is little way 
to regulate spectatorship. There is no guarantee that a particular film will be read 
and consumed in the prescribed mode. 

In our case, it is the female spectator’s task to absorb the commodities aimed 
at her. As an active participant in this process, she has the capacity to fashion her 
own interpretation of the narrative text, “buying” and hence identifying with only 
those “commodities", be they objects, characters or discourses, she chooses to 
purchase.'° Her gaze is not rigid or fixed, limited to a certain way of looking and 
mode of apprehension, but rather, to use Anne Friedberg’s terminology, “virtual” 
and “mobile.” It wanders freely, using the text as a point of departure and return, 
able to consume and identify with what and with whom she chooses. This 
terminology is particularly appropriate for an analysis of Grandi magazzini, for 
according to Friedberg, the sphere that conditioned this “virtual” and “mobile” gaze 
was none other than commercial culture, specifically the department store 
(Friedberg, 1-3;15-38;47-94). 

Despite the Grandi magazzini’s picture perfect conclusion, the text brings 
some interesting conflicts to light. For example, in one scene in Lauretta’s and 
Emilia’s apartment, the women speak frankly about economic hardship in their daily 
lives and sexual harassment in the workplace. Emilia is pregnant and alone; Lauretta 
worries that she will become Bertini’s mistress. Lauretta exclaims, “Tutti i nostri 
ragionamenti non ci impediscono di essere due disgraziate.” The allusion here is not 
only to their state of sexual demoralization but also, indirectly, to their struggle to 
make ends meet. The government in fact criticized Grandi magazzini for its open 
treatment of poverty and the working class, prompting one Fascist minister to 
comment: “Se Camerini continua a fare di questi film, con la storia di due ragazze 


of his massive Passagen-Werk was to ascertain if capitalist consumer culture could ever 
contribute to political enlightenment. He discovered that the means by which this 
emancipation could be accomplished was none other than the imagination. Through an 
awakening of what Benjamin saw as the collective, unconscious desire for utopian liberation, 
there arises the potential for collective, social change. See Horkheimer and Adorno 140-42; 
Buck-Morss, 110-58; and Williams. 

'S Stacey, in her recent study of women’s collective memories of American actresses of the 
1930s, sees the means by which the spectator identifies with the star and/or character as 
dynamic and productive, with the potential to produce subversive meaning (141-63). This 
article has been reprinted and expanded upon in her book-length study on the same subject. 


206 Jacqueline Reich 


che mangiano poco, non glieli facciamo fare piu!”'® The regime was in fact 
preoccupied with moral and sexual temptations that urban working life offered 
young women, vilifying the city in various propaganda as the locus of sexual 
degeneration and promiscuity, agnosticism, socialism, prostitution, and material and 
moral pollution. In some cases, however, women did turn to prostitution to 
supplement their income, since the monthly salary for shop girls hovered around a 
paltry 300 lira.'’ 

Lauretta is an interesting figure in and of herself, for she appears to provide the 
perfect paradigm for film commodity theory. As both consumer and commodity, she 
becomes the model of female behavior with which the audience, in particular the 
middle-class female spectator, is supposed to identify. The promotional materials 
for the film further extended the notion of character as commodity into star as 
commodity, playing on the Noris/De Sica pairing, so popular and effective in other 
Camerini films. A piece entitled “Quella povera commessa bionda,” amply 
illustrated by film stills, describes an encounter in the Grandi magazzini between 
a Salesgirl and a driver.'® The names, however, are not Lauretta and Bruno but 
rather Assia and Vittorio; even Camerini himself garners a mention. Commercial 
culture plays an integral role in the article’s narrative: the occasion for the 
encounter, Vittorio’s search for a “bottone per il colletto,” leads them on a walking 
tour of the department store and, of course, into each others’ arms. 
Interchangeability thus extends from character and commodity to character, 
actor/actress, and commodity. The text employs the stars’ fame and popularity to 
sell the film’s setting, story, and themes. 

One lone shot, in which she ponders how to get Bruno away from Anna’s 
clutches, brings to light Lauretta’s dual role as both a model consumer and a model 
of consumption. This scene also reveals how display functions in the creation and 
exploitation of desire. After Anna has invited Bruno skiing under Lauretta’s jealous 
nose, Lauretta knows she must act aggressively in order to capture the man she has 
come to love. After a violent confrontation with her rival, she nervously ponders her 
course of action as she returns to her position behind the counter. She first focuses 
on the object of sexual desire, here Bruno’s likeness in the form of a mannequin 
(created by Maurizio as a prank), dressed in the ski outfit he has just purchased. She 
then looks at the female mannequin positioned directly behind him, dressed in the 
women’s version of the same outfit. Now she fixes on the commodity which will 
heip her achieve her current goal. She repeats this exchange of looks one more time 
then decisively heads toward Bertini to ask for overtime. Lauretta here functions as 


'© Cited by Camerini in an interview in Faldini and Fofi 32. 

'7 1 each 117-18; De Grazia 1991, 194; Meldini 110. For a similar literary treatment of a 
young woman struggling in urban consumeristic culture, follow the character of Xenia in 
Alba de Céspedes’ Nessuna torna indietro. Xenia, unlike Lauretta and Emilia, ultimately 
succumbs to the temptations of material wealth and turns to semi-prostitution. 

'8 Cine illustrato 11.7 (14 febbraio 1939). 


Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 207 


the prototypical consumer as envisioned in the consumer culture. She subscribes to 
the philosophy that love is a commodity to be purchased through the acquisition of 
material goods. 

In this episode, however, Lauretta also illustrates the pitfalls and subversive 
potential of these very theories. For just as the mechanisms of consumption and 
identification can reproduce the status quo, they also have the potential to transcend 
it. It is essential to remember that in order to fulfill her fantasy, the impoverished 
Lauretta must steal the outfit in order to “purchase” the man. In doing so, her role 
as consumer and commodity takes an interesting twist. She is no longer the ideal 
consumer. She now becomes a model for transgression. By stealing, she 
transgresses the order of the workplace and the laws of consumerism and 
commercial capitalism. Furthermore, she transgresses traditional sexual rules of 
conduct, by consummating her relationship with Bruno before they are married. 
Lauretta, now sexually and socially “deviant,” becomes a counter commodity to be 
consumed by the spectator. As if to reinforce her new status, the suit’s price tag 
visibly dangles from the ski outfit when she wears it. 

The narrative both punishes and rewards Lauretta for her various 
transgressions. For her punishment, Bertini blackmails her into seeing him after 
hours (he keeps her “walking papers” locked and sealed in his desk drawer), and she 
loses Bruno, if only for a short while. Her fall from grace is symbolized in what was 
to have been her suicide attempt: flinging herself down the elevator shaft. She is, 
incidentally, saved not by Bruno but by the sight of his mannequin double. Once 
again the film intertwines and interchanges character and commodity. Dressed as 
the heroic and romantic hero in a tuxedo, Bruno the commodity comes to Lauretta’s 
rescue. Lauretta’s reward, on the other hand, is both amorous and monetary. Bruno 
romantically rushes to embrace her through the department store’s crowd. For 
apprehending the criminals, she and Bruno receive furnishings for their apartment, 
thus satisfying her aspirations as both character and consumer. 

Lauretta, in committing these multiple transgressions, provides an alternative 
model of behavior, violating the moral, social, and economic status quo. Yet here 
lies an important contradiction. Throughout the film, the dominant female point-of- 
view is that of Lauretta, and the film’s plot and iconography encourage the spectator 
to consume and appropriate her “image” as commodity: narrative sympathies lie 
with her; the camera lingers adoringly in soft close-up on her expressive face. The 
question becomes one of emphasis: does the emphasis rest on her innate virtue, 
featured in the film’s happy end, or on her transgressions in her path to proper 
subjectivity? While it is possible to argue this question ad infinitum, what is 
interesting is that the choice exists. Meaning and signification are not fixed or static 
and can oscillate between the two very different interpretations: Lauretta as 
commodity of the proper female subject and Lauretta as counter-commodity - the 
transgressor of the social and sexual order. 

Furthermore, the extra-cinematic discourse concentrated on, promoted, and 


208 Jacqueline Reich 


sold the product, in this case the simple and humble young worker who nonetheless, 
together with the other salesgirls, reveals that all is not as simple, good, or rosy as 
the Fascist regime would like its citizens to believe. Advertising, marketing 
strategies, and publicity pieces in fan magazines accompany the film in its wide 
circle of exchange, enhancing its possible success in the marketplace and 
contributing in the construction of its signification. These “promotional intertexts,” 
as Barbara Klinger calls them, extended the film’s reach into other spheres of 
influence (the press and the radio, for example), forming an “inter-textual network 
attached to its commodification.” While films were designed to engage the 
spectator, extra-cinematic images were intended to hammer the message home.” 
Aimed predominantly at women, these texts marketed both the film and female 
subjectivity as commodity. However, what they promoted often differed from the 
ideologically correct message imbedded in the film’s discourse. According to 
Klinger, promotional forms operate on an intertextual level, potentially encouraging 
“diverse positions of viewing” by effecting a “re-narrativization”’ of the filmic text 
(Klinger 4-5). In the case of Grandi magazzini, the articles, still photos, posters, 
publicity materials, and novelized versions of the film’s plot (cineromanzi, the 
precursors to the modern-day fotoromanzo), all of which circulated along with the 
film in the marketplace, for the most part featured conflict rather than resolution, 
dissent rather than harmony, and fairly liberated ideas on female sexuality. 

The pieghevole for Grandi magazzini is an interesting case study for how the 
film was targeted to the female audience. The pieghevole, or the publicity brochure, 
consists of one sheet of paper with matter printed on both sides and then folded in 
half in order to resemble a book. They were often distributed to the audience as a 
souvenir, left on their seats, or sold in packages with film stills or “cinema cards” 
to the general public. This brochure’s front cover features the credits (title, actors, 
director, producer, distributor). Its back cover reads: “Una delicata storia d’amore, 
narrata con gusto squisito dal nostro regista pill sensibile e raffinato.” Inside, a 
collage of film stills, arranged in a pattern resembling three horizontal film strips, 
bears this description: 


Un film che pur avendo tutti i pregi d’un raffinato umorismo ha un’impronta nuova di sentita 
umanita. Grandi magazzini ha la delicatezza di un romanzo dell’Ottocento e l’agilita di un 
racconto moderno . . . un avvicendarsi di sentimenti e di passioni sullo sfondo di un grande 
emporio moderno. Un dramma che si risolve in commedia, una commedia che si sfiora in 
dramma. 


One immediately notes how the language used in the interior and exterior copy 
is aimed at the female spectator/reader. Words and phrases such as gusto squisito, 


'? Klinger 3-19. See also Staiger 3-31, and Renov 7-8. Horkheimer and Adorno note how 
the “assembly-line character” of cinema and cultural industries, or rather the fact that they 
are so easily broken down into parts or commodities, is uniquely suited to advertising (163). 


Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 209 


sensibile, raffinato, delicatezza, sentimenti, and passioni rely on the linguistic 
registers of the romance novel and other popular literary forms directed at women. 
Yet the visuals accompanying the copy do not solely privilege the love story. They 
also focus on the conflicts, specifically gender conflicts. Significant is the use of 
color. The drab brown front and back covers, designed to play off star appeal, 
showcase Bruno and Lauretta gazing lovingly at each other. Inside, however, the 
electric blue reproductions prominently feature Anna’s fight with Lauretta as well 
as a striking close-up of Lauretta and Emilia looking defiant in their self-defined 
state of disgrazia. In the interior section, only two of the seven images reproduced 
from the film are devoted to Bruno and Lauretta. Thus, the pieghevole marketed not 
only the amorous resolution but also all of the conflicts which lead up to it. 

The cineromanzi which were derived from the film’s plot reinforced much of 
the film’s subversive potential. In the case of Grandi magazzini, there are two 
cineromanzi: one shorter version in Cine illustrato appearing as an article and one 
entire supplemento mensile to Cine illustrazione, consisting of a thirty page 
adaptation.”” Characteristic of both these novellas are the traditional exaggerated 
emotions and passions of mass-market, romance fiction directed toward the female 
reader. The more ample cineromanzo in Cine illustrazione follows the film’s plot 
more closely, excerpting dialogue word for word and using film stills as 
illustrations. The shorter cineromanzo, written by Clara Franchetti for Cine 
illustrato, translates cinematic point-of-view constructions into narrative ones, 
clearly aligning the reader with the female characters. At the same time, she clarifies 
and deepens the film’s treatment of more daring subjects, such as female sexuality, 
and sexual politics. For instance, the consummation of Bruno and Lauretta’s 
relationship is explicit. In this cineromanzo they no longer have the pretext of their 
trip to the mountains to justify their illicit time alone: she spends the two nights in 
his apartment, “abbandonandoglisi tra le braccia.” Not quite a portrait of female 
liberation, a woman alone in a man’s apartment was a definite taboo in other films 
of the era. Furthermore, Franchetti candidly raises some of the complex issues 
surrounding women and the workplace, specifically sexual harassment. The text 
clearly presents this act as violating the woman’s personal and sexual space. Emilia 
summarizes Lauretta’s dilemma in a nutshell: “La tua posizione é ben difficile. Non 
puoi disgustarlo, perché é il tuo superiore e potrebbe danneggiarti, ma al tempo 
stesso non puoi cedere. Se ti amasse sul serio e volesse sposarti, il mio consiglio 
sarebbe assai diverso.” Franchetti’s elucidation, in providing a precise clarification 
of the conflict hinted at during the scene in the women’s apartment, overtly takes 
a political position. Certainly Emilia’s statement is not without moral rectitude: 
Lauretta cannot give in because it would not be “proper” to become Bertini’s lover. 
Nevertheless, explicit recognition and cogent discussion of this and other social 


20 Cine illustrato 11.17 (25 aprile 1939): 11-13; and Cine illustrazione, supplemento mensile 
52 (1939): 1-30. Despite the similarities of their titles, these are two different periodicals. 


210 Jacqueline Reich 


problems find their expression in a literary form which those women who faced 
them would and did avidly read. 


Conclusion 

In summary, if one is to adapt film commodity theory to a particular cinematic text, 
it is important to isolate and analyze not only the ideologically correct message 
being sold to the audience but also the gaps and holes characteristic of that 
discourse itself. I hope to have shown that there are two ways to accomplish this 
task: 1) by not focusing on the inevitable happy end but rather on the conflicts and 
tensions given expression before the predestined conclusion; 2) by reading the film 
not in isolation but in a social, historical, political, and cultural context - in other 
words, by focusing not only on the cinematic but also on the extra-cinematic. In 
taking these inter-textual digressions in the cinema of the Fascist period, one finds 
not a monolithic portrayal of Fascist subjectivity but rather a plurality of opinions 
on and responses to Fascist policies and their objectives. With respect to women, 
despite the fact that film tried to package and sell an image of proper female 
subjectivity to its audience, it often wound up promoting a whole series of “counter- 
commodities” which the female spectator could consume in an entirely different 
manner. The mechanisms of commodification and identification, although certainly 
capable of directing the female spectator toward a desired product, can also be 
turned inside out in order to subvert those intentions. 

From beginning to end, Grandi magazzini is a film about consumption, but not 
one in which participation in the consumer environment is static or fixed. The film’s 
opening credits are presented over a backdrop of fashionable silhouettes adorning 
sporting attire, fur coats, and wedding dresses. All are on display, extended as 
“good” commodities destined for consumption. It parallels the final scene, in which 
the baby dolls rotate around in much the same manner. But these commodities are 
themselves problematic. While the wedding dress would induce the female 
spectator to “buy” into Fascist discourses on marriage and family in service to the 
state, the fur coat and leisure wear would be signs of upward social economic 
mobility for the majority of the film-going public. Of course, the theater provides 
a “safe” setting for fetishistic consumption, where these dreams of social betterment 
could be worked through. Yet the film acknowledges and plays on these collective 
desires, threatening as they are to the maintenance of the Fascist status quo. 

Grandi magazzini presents its audience with multiple ways of interpreting and 
constructing meaning. The items the film offers up for consumption are not only the 
ideologically correct ones which reinforce the sanctity of the family and a woman’s 
procreative function and teach women how to be “proper” consumers. It extends a 
host of counter-commodities to its audience both inside and outside of the theater, 
in the filmic text and in the extra-cinematic discourse: women and men whose 
earnings barely cover expenses; sexual harassment; and a female protagonist who 
simultaneously represents the ideal and the transgressor. With many contradictory 
items “for sale,” the film created occasions for various modes of consumption. It 


Consuming Ideologies in M. Camerini’s Grandi magazzini 211 


was impossible to completely dictate and totally regulate these behavioral patterns, 
just as it was impossible for the Fascist regime to completely and totally regulate 
female subjectivity. 


State University of New York at Stony Brook 


Filmography 


Grandi magazzini, dir. Mario Camerini, 1939 

Story: Mario Camerini, Ivo Perilli 

Screenplay: Renato Castellani, Mario Camerini, Ivo Perilli, Mario Pannunzio 

With: Assia Noris, Vittorio De Sica, Luisella Beghi, Milena Penovich, Andrea Checchi, 
Virgilio Riento 

Produced by: Generalcine/Era Film 


Works Cited 


Adorno, Theodor W. “The Culture Industry Reconsidered.” Critical Theory and Society: A 
Reader. Ed. Stephen E. Bronner and Douglas K. Kellner. New York: Routledge, 1989. 
128-35. 

Allen, Jeanne. “The Film Viewer as Consumer.” Quarterly Review of Film Studies 5.4 (Fall 
1980): 481-99. 

Benjamin, Walter. “The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction.” 
Illuminations. Trans. Harry Zohn. New York: Schocken Books, 1968. 217-51. 

Brunetta, Gian Piero. Buio in sala: 100 anni di passione dello spettatore cinematografico. 
Venezia: Marsilio, 1989. 

Buck-Morss, Susan. The Dialectics of Seeing: Walter Benjamin and the Arcades Project. 
Cambridge: MIT, 1989. 

de Ceéspedes, Alba. Nessuno torna indietro. Milano: Mondadori, 1938. 

De Grazia, Victoria. The Culture of Consent: Mass Organization of Leisure in Fascist Italy. 
Cambridge: Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1981. 

. How Fascism Ruled Women: Italy, 1922-1943. Berkeley: U of California P, 1992. 

Doane, Mary Ann. The Desire to Desire: The Woman's Film of the 1940s. Bloomington: 
Indiana UP, 1987. 

Eckert, Charles. “The Carole Lombard in Macy’s Window.” Quarterly Review of Film 
Studies (Winter 1978): 1-21. 

Ewen, Stuart. Captains of Consciousness: Advertising and the Social Roots of the Consumer 
Culture. New York: McGraw Hill, 1976. 

Faldini, Franca and Goffredo Fofi, eds. L’avventurosa storia del cinema italiano raccontato 
dai suoi protagonisti 1935-1959. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1979. 

Forgacs, David. /talian Culture in the Industrial Era, 1880-1980: Cultural Industries, 
Politics and the Public. Manchester: Manchester UP, 1990. 

Friedberg, Anne. Window Shopping: Cinema and the Postmodern. Berkeley: U of California 


212 Jacqueline Reich 


P,.1993: 

Gromo, Mario. Davanti allo schermo. Cinema italiano 1931-1943. Torino: Stampa, 1992. 

Haralovich, Mary Beth. “The Proletarian Woman’s Film of the 1930s: Contending with 
Censorship and Entertainment.” Screen 31.2 (Summer 1990): 172-87. 

Hay, James. Popular Film Culture in Fascist Italy: The Passing of the Rex. Bloomington: 
Indiana UP, 1986. 

Horkheimer, Max and Theodor W. Adorno. “The Culture Industry: Enlightenment as Mass 
Deception.” The Dialect of Enlightenment. New York: Herder & Herder, 1972. 120-67. 

Klinger, Barbara. “Digressions at the Cinema: Reception and Mass Consumption.” Cinema 
Journal 28.4 (Summer 1989): 3-19. 

La Place, Maria. “Producing and Consuming the Woman’s Film: Discursive Strategies in 
Now, Voyager.” Home is Where the Heart Is: Studies in Melodrama and the Woman's 
Film. Ed. Christine Gledhill. London: British Film Institute, 1987. 138-66. 

Leach, William. Land of Desire: Merchants, Power, and the Rise of a New American 
Culture. New York : Pantheon Books, 1993. 

Marx, Karl. Capital: A Critique of Political Economy. Trans. Samual Moore and Edward 
Aveling. Ed. Frederick Engels. New York: The Modern Library, 1936. 

Meldini, Piero. Sposa e madre esemplare. Ideologia e politica della donna e della famiglia 
durante i! fascismo. Rimini: Guaraldi, 1975. 

Mulvey, Laura. “Some Thoughts on Theories of Fetishism in the Context of Contemporary 
Culture.” October 65 (Summer 1993): 3-20. 

Negri, Ada. “The Movies.” Unspeakable Women: Selected Short Stories Written By Italian 
Women During Fascism. Ed. Robin Pickering-Iazzi. New York: The Feminist Press, 
1993. 58-62. 

Nuovi materiali sul cinema italiano, 1929-1943. Quaderno 71. Mostra del cinema di Pesaro, 
1976. 

Pinkus, Karen. Bodily Regimes: Italian Advertising Under Fascism. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1995. 

Reich, Jacqueline. “Reading, Writing, and Rebellion: Collectivity, Specularity, and Sexuality 
in the Italian Schoolgirl Comedy, 1934-1943.” Mothers of Invention: Women, Italian 
Fascism, and Culture. Ed. Robin Pickering-Iazzi. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 
1995, 220-51. 

Renov, Michael. “Advertising/Photojournalism/Cinema: The Shifting Rhetoric of Forties 
Female Representation.” Quarterly Review of Film and Video 11.1 (1989): 1-21. 
Savio, F. Cinecitta anni trenta. Parlano i protagonisti del secondo cinema italiano, 1930- 

43.3 vols. Roma: Bulzoni, 1979. 
. Ma l’amore no. Realismo, formalismo, propaganda e telefoni bianchi nel cinema 
italiano di regime (1930-43). Milano: Sonzogno, 1975. 

Stacey, Jackie. “Feminine Fascinations: Forms of Identification in Star-Audience Relations.” 

Stardom: Industry of Desire. Ed. Christine Gledhill. London: Routledge, 1991. 141-63. 
. Star Gazing: Hollywood Cinema and Female Spectatorship. London: Routledge, 
1994. 

Staiger, Janet. “Announcing Wares, Winning Patrons, Voicing Ideals: Thinking About the 
History and Theory of Film Advertising.” Cinema Journal 29. 3 (Spring 1990): 3-31. 

Williams, Rosalind H. Dream Worlds: Mass Consumption in Late Nineteenth-Century 
France. Berkeley: U of California P, 1982. 


Ellen Nerenberg 


Love for Sale or That’s Amore:' 
Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 


I. Da che il mondo é mondo: Shooting History’s Gap 


Elisa € riuscita finora a sgusciare tra le maglie, ma v’é cascata Chiccona, alla quale é 
stato rilasciato il foglio di via per Lucca, la sua citta; v’é cascata Ada, a cui il medico 
delle carceri ha riscontrato una sifilide di secondo grado — e Rosetta, veterana del 
mestiere, recidiva specifica, che si € cosi assicurata per sei mesi il vitto a Santa Verdiana. 
Insieme ad esse, numerose altre delle venturiere. E il pogrom delle prostitute, una 
calamita che si abbatte ad ogni cambiamento di governo, da che il mondo é mondo. 
Anch’esse come gli ebrei, sono esperte da secoli di persecuzione. Impercano appena, e 
non rinunciano. Giocano d’astuzia per sfuggire alla rete. Si deve pur mangiare, almeno 
una volta ogni ventiquattro ore, noi e chi ci sta sulle spalle! Le pit giovani e presentabili 
si decidono al gran passo che significa perdita di liberta, catene ai piedi, ugualmente 
come nel carcere. E il destino a cui Olimpia si é rassegnata gia da diversi mesi . . . 


The pogrom of the prostitutes that appears toward the end of Cronache di poveri 
amanti (1948), Vasco Pratolini's epic novel set in 1925-26 Florence, underscores 
their integral presence in the novel. In addition to chronicling the lives and loves 
of the cornacchiai, as he calls the inhabitants of the novel’s focal Via del Corno, 
located just off Piazza Santa Croce, Pratolini narrativizes the transition from 
early to second stage Fascism. The year 1926 was pivotal in the Fascist 
consolidation of the state, achieved throughout the 20’s by such lega! processes 
as multi-party elections, the promulgation of the /eggi fascistissime, and finally 
the arrival in 1929 of the Rocco Code, the new penal code. In an ever 
fascistizing Italian State filtered through memory, prostitutes are a stand-in for 
all Italians: some evade the clutches of the state’s strong arm, the police; others 
flee in exile; the captured socially miscreant serve prison sentences. While all 
this subdues public outrage over the immorality of prostitution, the menace to 
public hygiene cannot be contained. (One wonders just how many clients has 
Ada already infected.) But depicting the prostitutes as a vilified and persecuted 
social underclass does not suffice, for Pratolini distills out of their tale that 
persecuted archetype, the Jew. Historical particulars, Pratolini appears to say, 


' The author thanks Philip Cannistraro, Noah Isenberg, Keala Jewell, Natasha Korda, 
Janice Kozma, Sean McCann, James Miller, Robin Pickering-Iazzi, Benigno Sifuentes- 
Jauregui, Anthony Valerio, and David Weisberg for their assistance. 

* Vasco Pratolini, Cronache di poveri amanti (903; emphasis added). Henceforth page 
numbers are cited in the text and refer to this edition. Where there are translations, they 
are mine unless otherwise noted. 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni 


214 Ellen Nerenberg 


hardly matter: “da che il mondo é mondo,” since time immemorial, literally, 
since the time the world has been the world, when governments change, this kind 
of pogrom is sure to follow. 

“Da che il mondo é mondo” betokens historical stasis. In these pages | 
address this glossing over of historical specificity and use it to reveal a curious 
lack of historical change or rupture in the representation of prostitution following 
Fascism. Such representation in Pratolini’s novel illustrates one way in which the 
historical equilibrium implied by the locution “da che il mondo é mondo” takes 
shape. To sketch the outlines of this problem I examine the novel’s use of 
prostitution both in relation and contradistinction to the Merlin Law, enacted 
finally in 1958 but introduced some ten years earlier. Indeed, Pratolini casts back 
much further in history than the experience of the ventennio for the root of the 
problem of sex for sale. Whereas following the ventennio the male subject was 
free to return to the customary liberties and entitlements of civil society 
(suspended or deprived by Fascism), the female subject was turned back to a 
social order that did not seek nor guarantee her emancipation.’ A review of 
Cronache di poveri amanti in the light of the public discourse on prostitution 
helps lay bare the preferential treatment of male subjects in the new republic and 
thus interrogates the notion of a radical rupture from Fascist practice. Pratolini 
uses prostitution in this 1948 novel to articulate a relationship to politics; and 
prostitutes, prostitution, and the places of its transaction ideate Cronache’s plot, 
character, and theme. The literary pratice of Neorealism and its undergirding 
politics are at stake in an analysis of prostitution’s variable sign. By blurring 
historical contexts and merging different types of discourses in its portrayal of 
prostitution, Cronache — a novel written and published in the blossoming of 
postwar Neorealism, a politico-literary practice Pratolini is thought to espouse — 
reveals not the disruption of juridical and discursive practices of Fascism so 
much as the continuation of those practices." 


3 See Koonz; Gender, Patriarchy, and Fascism in the Third Reich; Palermo. Given the 
historical parameters and the “real world” conditions prostitutes lived in/under in newly 
Republican Italy, Karen Newman’s objection to the critique of prostitution, while taken 
under advisement, can be pre-empted. She writes: “Reading women repeatedly as the 
object of male exchange constructs a victim’s discourse that risks reinscribing the very 
sexual politics it seeks to expose and change” (47). For a critique of the “reinscription” of 
such victim’s status see Ecstavasia 

* Fascism’s boundaries begin to bleed at both ends. Although scholarship has theorized 
Fascism’s genesis, ably untangling the snarled roots of its cultural and intellectual 
genealogy as far back as the last decade of the previous century, it has concentrated less 
on the spread of these roots past the fall of the Regime in 1943. In fine, most scholars 
have assumed that the fall of Fascism and the recuperation of democracy deracinated 
Fascism’s force. On the other hand, some critics, like Romano Luperini and Ruth Ben- 
Ghiat have focussed on the continuities between Fascism and its aftermath. Luperini, for 
example, doubts such radical transformation that the dopoguerra period of reconstruction 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 215 


Prostitution is both a fixed and mutable sign.” Public morality has always 
disparaged the “oldest profession” and has always used its concern for public 
hygiene as the chief reason to control or quash it. Thus, while Fascism, for 
example, left its particular imprint, its vilification of prostitution reveals no 
radical difference from the arguments against sex for sale that preceded the 
Regime. However, distinct from this fixed and enduring complaint develop 
changes in the public discourse concerning prostitution in Italy that correspond 
to the era of postwar reconstruction and which bear that historical inflection. 

Pratolini uses prostitution in multiform ways and in the interests of 
diverging ideologies. As part of the cadre of cultural practitioners active in the 
immediate postwar and whose artistic expression strove toward political 
engagement, Pratolini acknowledges prostitution as a form of labor, and in those 
moments when he sees it as labor performed by women of the disenfranchised 
underclass, the narrative makes authorial sympathy and identification patent.° On 


claims. He states that “The years 1926 to 1956 seem to be divided in half by the war and 
by the apparently neat passage from Hermeticism to Neorealism. In reality, there was no 
true rupture: one moves from an ideology of literature to a literature of ideology and 
rather than a solution of continuity there is an inversion of the same thematic . . .” For 
discussions of literary representations of Fascism avant la lettre see Dombroski, 
L'esistenza ubbidiente: letterati italiani sotto il fascismo, esp. 1-33 and 77-113. See 
Luperini 406-07. On the problem of periodizing Neorealist practice, see Ruth Ben-Ghiat, 
“The Politics of Realism” and “Neorealism in Italy 1930-1950.” For the politics of 
Neorealist aesthetics, see Re and Pickering-Iazzi, esp. 124-88. For the poetic/poets’ 
response to the Neorealist agenda see Jewell, esp. 1-22. My focus on the way Pratolini’s 
novel disavows the liberatory politics believed present in the season of Neorealism does 
not exclude readings of the novel that train on the author’s oppositional practice outside 
of the relation of textual/sexual politics. For example, Ross has recently explored 
Pratolini’s use of Florentine annual festivals, so numerous in the novel, as a means of 
staging a Bahktinian reading of Pratolini’s “resistance” to Fascism. 

* The instability of the sign of prostitution has made it available as a staging point for the 
study of myriad phenomena in the visual arts as well as literary and cultural criticism and 
in an impressive array of historical contexts. For the lability of the sign of prostitution, 
see, for example, Teal; Rothberg, for an analysis of the prostitute as the figure for 
urbanizing Paris; Helsinger; and Lenz, for an analysis of the juxtaposition of theaters and 
brothels in Shakespeare’s London. I am grateful to Keala Jewell for bringing Teal’s 
article to my attention. 

° Although received knowledge of Neorealism placed Pratolini in its vanguard, recent 
scholarship has called into question the political engagement of his art. As Re observes, 
“Giuseppe Alicata uses [the term neorealismo] in his 1941 review of Pavese’s novel 
[Paesi tuoi], and Eugenio Montale also employs it in his review of Vasco Pratolini’s 
1942 ‘slice-of-life’ novel Via de’ Magazzini. In both of these works, however, a sense of 
political commitment and a passionate adherence to the social issues of the present are 
either negligible or absent altogether.” Re 12. However, the lack of attention to then- 
contemporary social issues may be deliberate and may not impugn the author’s political 


216 Ellen Nerenberg 


the other hand, however, by using prostitution as the emblem of Fascist 
depravity, this writer also condemns it. Ugo represents a significant facet of this 
problem. A principal player in the novel, he overcomes the allure of the sale of 
sex and in so doing rejects the kind of consumer capitalism that, Pratolini seems 
to say, goes hand in glove with objectionable politics, which is to say, Fascism. 


II: Da che il mondo é mondo: Ratifying the Merlin Law 

One of the first legal battles to be waged in the newly formed Constitutional 
Republic of Italy concerned the state regulation of the sex trade. Although nearly 
all industrialized nations had abandoned regulationist practices after the Great 
War, the state-sanctioned case chiuse (brothels, though literally, “closed 
houses”) remained open for business until 1958. In fact, laws concerning the 
public solicitation of sex for money were among the most enforced (and 
transgressed) in Florence in the immediate postwar period.’ 

Despite the sweeping reform of this historical moment (enfranchisement 
granted regardless of sex, a new form of government decided by national 
referendum in 1946, a newly drafted Constitution), the plight of Italian 
prostitutes shows that women were still bound up in the exaggeratedly 
patriarchal discourse characteristic of but not limited to Fascism.* 

During its twenty-year tenure, the Fascist government considered and acted 
upon the social problem of prostitution three times: in 1923, 1931, and again in 
1940. Of primary concern during the first campaign was public hygiene and the 
risk the (male) citizen incurred by frequenting prostitutes. The state promulgates 
several laws during the historical period that Pratolini draws from for the novel’s 
setting. For instance, the Regio decreto (law) n. 846 of March 1923 required of 
all prostitutes proof — documented and certified by a physician — that they were 
free of all contagious venereal diseases.” The machinery surrounding the 
integrity of public health gathered steam during the 20’s, as the Regime 


commitment in the way that Re believes. 

7 A report ending 2400 hours 21 March 1945 and submitted to the ranking Allied officer 
in Florence reads: “Public safety remains good. Various offences caused the arrest of 144 
persons of which 106 were prostitutes.” The same weekly report filed 4 April 1945 reads 
“The smallest number of arrests in weeks was reported this week with only 78 arrests of 
which 64 were prostitutes.” Reported in Gli alleati e la ricostruzione in Toscana 469 and 
472. 

8 Prostitutes complained in their letters to Senator Merlin during parliamentary 
discussions of the proposed Merlin Law that they were unable to expunge their past in 
prostitution from their police records and, consequently, encountered serious difficulties 
relocating and finding work outside the sex trade; even though many wanted to leave the 
brothels they chose to stay with the work and shelter that the case chiuse provided them 
(Lettere dalle case chiuse 94, 96, 109). 

° “Appendice documentaria,” Lettere dalle case chiuse 163-203, esp. 163-172. See also 
de Grazia 44. 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 217 


consolidated its power, until finally, with the promulgation of the new penal 
code in 1929, the “knowing transmission of a venereal disease” was transformed 
from a misdemeanor offence into a crime “against the race.”'° Significantly, the 
June Public Safety Law Against Prostitution offers another meaningful 
transformation; this law did not change but, rather, reconfirmed the regulationist 
stance of the Cavour and Nicotera Laws (of 1860 and 1905 respectively), 
endorsing the brothels already tolerated (and administrated) by the state. '! 
Practices and attitudes codified by the 1931 law did not wither away in the 
face of Fascism’s collapse. Mary Gibson concludes her excellent study of 
prostitution in Italy between 1860 and 1915 by commenting on the absence of 
change in the public debates concerning the Merlin Law and the proposed end of 
state-regulated prostitution. “The parliamentary debates over the Merlin [L]aw,” 
she observes, “rehashed for the most part the same positions assumed by 
regulationists and abolitionists almost a century earlier.”!” The protracted and 
difficult fight for the abolition of the case chiuse began in August 1948 and 
continued until the Merlin Law was ratified in February 1958. As one of the first 
tasks of the Italian Republic, the abolition of the case chiuse resounds with 
meaning: the formative period of the actual Italian State and the Merlin Law 
precisely and significantly coincide.'? Lina Merlin, an intrepid socialist senator 
from the Veneto, wrote and introduced this hotly contested legislation. She 
sought to abolish the state-run brothels, rehabilitate and relocate the some 4,000 
prostitute residents, render criminal any act of pandering, create a special branch 
of the police dedicated to the enforcement of the law and composed solely of 
women, and restore fundamental and constitutional rights to prostitutes. In 
Merlin’s vision, prostitutes alone would not solely safeguard public hygiene; 
rather, clients, too, would be compelled toward both a heightened sense of civic 
duty and examination and treatment. It was a too-tall order and, over the ten 
years required to quilt together the requisite multilateral support, the Merlin Bill 
lost its original focus and force. What emerged from the debate was a vitiated 
version of what had been proposed a decade earlier: gone was the presumption 
of equality between men and women and in its place was a moralistic and 
paternalistic (Tamar Pitch goes so far as to say Lombrosian) tone.'* The focus of 


'° See Title X, Articles 545-55 in Codice Penale e norme complementari 200-02. 

'! See “Appendice documentaria” in Lettere dalla case chiuse and Gibson. 

'2 Gibson 224. Gibson observes that the advent of penicillin took the air out of the 
argument concerning public hygiene. She adds that women’s suffrage, too, contributed to 
the ratification of the Merlin Law. However, I maintain that ten years (and these ten years 
in particular) is no negligible amount of time in which to stage, time and again, the 
“same” arguments recycled from a century earlier. 

'3 For more on the coeval constructions of nationalism and sexual identity see Mosse; 
Nationalisms and Sexualities, Anderson; and Theweleit. 

'4 See Pitch; and Merlin's autobiography, La mia vita. 


218 Ellen Nerenberg 


the law ratified in 1958 became prostitution, not the abolition of the case chiuse, 
a significant shift that runs counter to the general Zeitgeist of liberation, 
resistance, and reconstruction that Neorealist cultural practices helped shore up. 
The shift also served to drag the discourse on prostitution back to its previous 
register composed of issues concerning public hygiene and morality. The Merlin 
Law travels a trajectory that reaches from a committed and progressive (perhaps 
even radical) starting point to a dulled and condemning terminus. And the 
representation of prostitution in Cronache takes a similar path. 


III: Da che “ le demimonde” é “demimonde”’: Or, looking for love in all the 
wrong places. 

The Albergo Cervia is the second class hotel in Via del Corno to which the 
prostitutes bring their clients. The dispassionate description dominating the 
initial characterization of the hotel and of prostitution offers what is generally 
considered quintessential Neorealism.'* This sort of characterization cedes to a 
stylized, lurid, and sensational portrayal that belies its patent (explicit and 
avowed) political aesthetic, namely, to show things for what and as they were 
with no spectacular mythologizing. This progression, from a nude, Neorealist 
narrative mode to a highly stylized one, signals Pratolini's ambivalent position. 
The author’s initial detailing of the prostitutes’ expenses (how much they pay 
Ristori, the proprietor, how much they charge their clients, how many clients 
they service each day, how many times they change linens, how large their rooms 
are and what they are like, and so forth) likens them to the other subsistence- 
level residents of Via del Corno for whom prostitution is simply another way of 
keeping body and soul together. The prostitutes 


Non possono dire comunque che via del Corno le giudichi e le rimproveri. All’ occasione 
esse ricevono saluti cortesi e sguardi di solidarieta. I poveri e i lavoratori hanno imparato 
a proprie spese che la vita si suda in tanti modi, e quella é in fondo la maniera pit 
disgraziata e umiliante. La stessa Clorinda, che fra le donne di chiesa é la pit 
bacchettona, non trova da ridire: le prostitute le danno indubbiamente meno fastidio dei 
martelli di Maciste e dello Staderini. 

(737; emphasis added) 


Initially we see how the prostitutes resemble their proletarian neighbors.'® 
However, the egalitarian tone soon changes key; from prostitution as “women’s 


'S Indeed, Pratolini’s itemization bears remarkable resemblance to the details the 
prostitutes outline themselves in their letters to Senator Merlin (cf. Lettere dalle case 
chiuse, esp. 119-20 and 143-44). 

'© Cf. Asor Rosa 130, where he blindly accepts Pratolini’s seemingly egalitarian 
evaluation. I will say more of Asor Rosa’s participation in Pratolini’s assessment of 
prostitution as well as the evaluation of the author as a practitioner in the Neorealist 
group. 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 219 


work” and therefore worthy of recognition as labor, Pratolini manipulates it into 
the example of Fascist handiwork, achieved at the Cervia.'’ 

Were it not for the Albergo Cervia there would be no direct conflict between 
Fascist and anti-Fascist factions in Via del Corno, a microcosm of Florence, 
itself a regionalized, miniature Italy. Osvaldo and Ugo are exiled both from 
home and political party, and find new lodgings and society at the Cervia, where 
they naturally have more extensive social contacts than their previous 
circumstances would have yielded. Ristori, the hotelier, notices their newfound 
fraternity and says to Ugo, “Vedo vi siete affiatati, anche se le vostre idee non 
collimano a perfezione” (741).'* The Cervia provides the politically uncharged 
territory where, with liquor and women, they transcend ideological differences. 

The Cervia epitomizes Ugo’s descent into depravity, Fascism, and petty 
capitalism; when he leaves the company of Fascists and whores and finds the 
love of a ‘respectable’ woman he regains his political purity and proletarian 
consciousness. When he lived at the Caressis’ he was thrifty and did a day’s 
honest work, frequented Party meetings with Maciste, and kept company with 
the residents of via del Corno. Conversely, as a Cervia resident, 


Ugo ha tolto la confidenza a via del Corno. Pare serbar rancore non a Maciste soltanto, 
ma alla strada intera. Rientra in albergo quando é gia buio e la mattina sgattaiola furtiva. 
Se qualcuno lo incontra e lo saluta, egli risponde portandosi due dita alla visiera del 
beretto comperato da poco . . . Ora tiene alle sue dipendenze un garzone a cui affida un 
secondo carretto di frutta e verdura e lo indirizza nei Quartieri opposti a quelli che batte 
lui. Compensa il garzone con dieci lire al giorno; personalmente ricava un utile al disopra 
del doppio. E quanto ogni sera regala ad Olimpia. “La succursale |’ho aperta per te,” 
aggiunse. “Ti verserd quanto il secondo barroccio mi rende, se tu mi resterai fedele ogni 
sera, dalle dieci in la.” Ugo é persuaso, in cuor suo, di avere un’amante che non gli costa 
un soldo, se non un “ammortizzamento di capitale.” 

(792) 


Freedom of circulation distinguishes Ugo and his enterprise and creates 


'7 Vittorini’s 1956 short novel, Erica e i suoi fratelli (which also lies within the time 
frame of ratification of the Merlin Law), documents the hypocrisy of working class 
morality and offers an interesting comparison. The fourteen-year-old of the title, 
abandoned by her parents, becomes a prostitute in order to feed herself and her younger 
siblings; what results is general censure on the part of her neighbors who, although barely 
subsisting themselves, have managed not to “sink” to prostitution in order to survive. I 
thank Piero Garofalo for pointing out this passage. 

'® The brothel appears as a refuge for the politically disparate in the literature of this time 
as well as cinema seeking to represent this era. Consider, for example, the brothel as 
social space in Vittorini’s // garofano rosso or Alberto Moravia’s La romana (1947) or 
in the films like De Sica’s Ladri di bicicletta (The Bicycle Thief, 1948) and Wertmuller’s 
later (re)vision of it in Film d'amore e di anarchia (Love and Anarchy, 1972). 


220 Ellen Nerenberg 


structural correspondences to Osvaldo and the Cervia prostitutes. In the main, 
the actions of the cornacchiai (save the ones just mentioned) are geographically 
circumscribed by the Via del Corno cosmos and the choral effect of the 
narrative, about which I will say more below, derives from their cheek-by-jowl 
proximity. (Carlo Lizzani’s 1954 film of the novel makes this patent.)'” 

In the preceding citation we see Ugo “scurry” away from Via del Corno in 
search of capital. The free movement of his pushcart through Florence suggests 
the free circulation of capital and its drive toward cluster or accumulation. 
Although he later expresses regret over the transformation of his labor, Ugo’s 
work in travelling sales, unlike that of the craftsmen whose workshops line the 
ground level of the buildings on the street, is not geographically ordained. He 
ranges freely so that he might sell; the success of his ambulant commerce implies 
regular consumption of his goods, most likely by women of the different 
neighborhoods he travels between whose task it is to buy and prepare food. 

Ugo is a bounder. Significantly, as he falls further from socio-political grace 
he unroots, socially, and “takes off’ economically. When his goal becomes 
profit, for example, it happens that he moves from his fixed address to the 
Cervia, a hotel for transients. Even though he might leave Via del Corno 
altogether, he chooses the Cervia instead, a hotel marking the permanence of the 
temporary. In a correspondingly convenient and “temporary” arrangement, he 
invests his profits in a “lover who costs him only ‘a loss of capital’”: a prostitute. 

Were Ugo simply to dissociate himself from his previous household and 
political comrades in order to devote himself to Olimpia, one of the cadre 
prostitutes at the Cervia, the development would say little about the way 
Pratolini deploys prostitution as corrupt and capitalistic. Instead, by showing that 
it drives Ugo’s motivation for expanding his base of economic operations, 
Pratolini flags sex work as a chief contributing factor in the downfall of a good 
“red”) man. 

The kind of entrepreneurial capitalism Ugo engages in to secure Olimpia’s 
time is the very sort he will disparage after Maciste’s murder and his politico- 
spiritual conversion. Ugo’s speech to Gesuina (the embodiment of, Gesw!, true 
consciousness) reveals the operant system of binaries: good woman/bad woman 
(one could easily say Madonna/Maddalena), good politics/bad politics, etc. He 
tells her: 


Io che mi batto per la causa dei lavoratori, che mi riempio la testa, e la riempio agli altri, 
di proletariato, di capitalismo, di sfruttati e sfruttatori, come privato cittadino che sono? 
Un commerciante! Uno che, sia pure in piccolo, vive di cid la roba che questi ha maturato 
col suo sudore. . . . Che razza di lavoratore sono? Cosa produco? Io che avevo un 
mestiere fra le mani, lho abbandonato . . . (957) 


' For Lizzani’s and Pratolini’s responses to the film see Lizzani 23-28, and, in the same 
volume, Pratolini’s “Testimonianza su ‘Cronache di poveri amanti’” 29-30. 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 221 


Ugo’s progress from Olimpia and the Albergo Cervia to Gesuina exemplifies the 
shift in Pratolini’s evaluation of prostitution and shows how Ugo’s female 
companions function as agents of his social and ideological bias. Ugo’s petty 
entrepreneurship subtends his political disavowal: he abandons political 
principle for the opportunity of greater earnings with which he can secure a lover 
who costs him no emotional expenditure, merely “a loss of capital.” Although 
saying Pratolini equates petty entreprenuership with Fascism is too reductive, it 
is clear that it paves the way for bad politics and false consciousness. 

The events leading up to the Night of the Apocalypse show Ugo the error of 
his ways. The nocturnal trip through Florence on Maciste’s motorcycle during 
the Night of the Apocalypse provides him with his purifying journey. When he 
learns of the Fascists’ plot to execute several high-ranking Communist Party 
members, Ugo overcomes and subdues Osvaldo and, with Olimpia’s help, keeps 
him prisoner in her room (which concretely illustrates the intersection of 
opposed political ideologies).*” Ugo declines Osvaldo’s offer to “fashion himself 
a new virginity” (“rifarti una nuova verginita” 810) with the Fascists, choosing 
instead a new virginity (which is to say a new beginning) with his communist 
comrade, Maciste. Together they leave the street behind and, when Ugo returns 
to Via del Corno, wounded from the foray, it is into Gesuina’s and not Olimpia’s 
care that he enters. He tries to explain this renewal to Gesuina while he 
recuperates from his wounds at the Signora’s. She at first retreats, observing that 
Ugo “non ha avuto un pensiero per Olimpia!” (862). But Olimpia does not worry 
him for 


E una donna che si sa cavare dagl’impicci da sola... . Era una donna con cui avevo dei 
rapporti, da tre mesi. Lo dico senza intenzione di offenderla. Tra di noi c’era una specie 
di contratto: io ti do tanto, tu altrettanto . . . Ora, dopo quello che € successo, il contratto 
é scaduto. E Olimpia I’avra capito fino dal primo momento . . . Olimpia avra capito che 
quanto € successo mi ha fatto ridiventare |’Ugo di prima. . . . Quello che ero prima non 
avrebbe accettato di fare contratto con una donna che batte il marciapiede. 

(862-63) 


Significantly, Gesuina, “una ragazza ingenua” (863), cannot grasp Ugo’s 
meaning. As if the economic discourse of the use-exchange value relation is 
simply over her head he adds, “Dovrei usare delle parole difficili per spiegarmi” 
(863). Thus, at the moment Ugo purges himself of false political consciousness 
and the habit of prostitution, he similarly disengages from the language of 
economics: the overt contractual language that Olimpia traffics in and 
understands (“io ti do tanto, tu altrettanto”) cannot be spoken with Gesuina. 
Significantly, the narrative makes a diegetic feint, withdrawing into as much 


20 This is based on an historical account of actual events in Florence in 1926 (see Ottavi). 


222 Ellen Nerenberg 


description of Ugo and Gesuina’s discussion as mimetic presentation of it.”! 
Gesuina is not immediately won over, but Ugo is politically born anew and 
needs a “good” woman to complement his regained political righteousness. The 
narrative then fills with conventionally romantic tics: moonlight, hushed voices, 
heartfelt exchange. Rather than the language of commerce and economics, Ugo 
now speaks the language of “free” love: “Parlarono a lungo entrambi, col cuore 
sulle labbra.” Ugo’s and Gesuina’s is a meeting of souls; no bartering or 
contracts would be appropriate, and their first night together, occurring several 
nights later, is characterized by metaphors of newness and youth.” 

Pratolini builds into the narrative parallels between Ugo and Osvaldo that 
grow increasingly apparent: both are travelling salesmen, both live in the 
Albergo Cervia, both seek the sham domesticity of sex for hire, and the politics 
of both, during the course of Cronache, are in an uncertain state of becoming. 
Ugo’s progress in the novel, like some puritan’s allegory, helps him to heroically 
purge these defects, whereas Osvaldo shows what happens when he cannot. 

Pratolini does not merely invert Ugo to create Osvaldo’s character. In 
addition to the shared characteristics enumerated, both men have also fledgling 
politics. Pratolini’s deliberate vagueness concerning political affiliation suggests 
the “dumbing down” of simple economics to which Ugo resorts for Gesuina’s 
sake. Rather than name Carlino and Osvaldo as PNF members, or label Maciste 
and Ugo “Communists,” he is satisfied by the simple “black” and “red.” Though 
indeterminacy will produce additional consequences, it more immediately fuels 
the nostalgia of the novel. Pratolini’s reluctance to precisely name the politics 
involved evokes a kind of impreciseness attendant on the adolescence so 
characteristic of a certain vintage Neorealism (Vittorini of // garofano rosso, 
Calvino of Il sentiero dei nidi del ragno, Pavese of La luna e i falo, and so 
forth); like adolescents, Ugo and Osvaldo seek definition, but not necessarily one 
that sharply distinguishes them from their cohort.”° 


*! This retreat performs an important function of signification and implies Pratolini’s 
interest in the capacity of prose fiction to mimetically reproduce the real. In his review of 
Romano Bilenchi’s 1935 novel // capofabbrica in I] Bargello Pratolini comments that 
“The word is intended as ‘essentiality,’ without being the fruit of cerebral or forced 
virtuosity: Bilenchi’s language gives back to the word its representational function by 
virtue of its Tuscan purity which stems from the best tradition’” (qtd. Rosengarten). At 
the same time, Ben-Ghiat, in “Neorealism in Italy, 1930-1950,” comments that it is just 
this kind of concern for “Tuscan purity” that makes her call into question Pratolini’s 
relationship to Neorealist politics. 

22 «_. Lentamente si avvicinavano, scorgendosi appena sotto la scorza delle diverse 
esperienze, che a poco a poco cadevano come la borraccina raschiata dalla pietra, ed 
apparivano le loro anime, che erano ugualmente senza peccato. Ed erano piante giovani, 
desiderose di affondare le radici in una terra sana. Diciamo: amore” (869, emphasis 
added). This innocent state (“senza peccato”) is virginal indeed, even more so since it 
directly concerns the transition from the sale and purchase of sex to sex given “freely.” 

> Furthermore, the welter of detail required to distinguish between the many splinter 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 223 


Like Ugo, Osvaldo has fallen from a previous state of political engagement, 
only from the other side of the spectrum. When he refuses to join the squadristi 
in the attack on Alfredo, Carlino evicts him and, politically, casts him out. Like 
Ugo, rather than leave Via del Corno, he takes up residence at the Cervia. Like 
Ugo, Osvaldo is a travelling salesman (with Alfredo, in fact, for a client), though 
he appears to sell to his clients his image as a dutiful Fascist as much as his 
paper products. Osvaldo’s lapel pin signs his political allegiance and currency, 
and his commerical success seems owed in equal parts to youthful 
entrepreneurial exuberance and his demonstrated political conformity. 


Simile a Colombo, egli ha toccato terra felicemente, scoprendo clienti nuovi e caricandoli 
di partite con l’audacia che un giovane deve avere, ed anche un po’, si, in virtu del 
dischetto che porta all’occhiello della giacca e che in provincia accresce di giorno in 
giorno il suo ascendente. II distintivo é a forma d’uovo . . . con il bianco-il-rosso-e-il- 
verde smaltati in verticale: un fascio in mezzo . . . Osvaldo non fa nulla per ricordare ai 
suoi clienti di essere un fascista: porta il distintivo perché lo ritiene suo dovere. 

(723) 


We find prostitution, finally, at the end of this laundry list of shared attributes 
and structural similarities: resembling Ugo’s arrangement with Olimpia, Osvaldo 
contracts to spend each night with another of Cervia prostitutes, Elisa. 

Here, however, similarities end; as soon as reflection on prostitution is 
required, Ugo and Osvaldo separate. Ugo clearly understands that his 
relationship with Olimpia is as fiscal, as it is temporary (it is fiscal because it is 
temporary, temporary because it is fiscal); indeed, he has pursued her precisely 
as to avoid any involvement beyond a commercial one. Although Osvaldo 
recognizes the firm (and paid for) distinctions between “free” love and its 
prostituted version, he lulls himself into either believing or wishing it were 
otherwise. This next long citation reveals Osvaldo’s inability or unwillingness to 
distinguish between the sex of prostitution and conjugal intimacy. Osvaldo is 
drawn into the spectacle of prostitution as a voyeur, and the complacency so 
characteristic of the scene of prostitution becomes a kind of conjugal intimacy of 
fantasy, one that would certainly inhibit a good Fascist marriage, if indeed such a 
thing existed. Osvaldo and Elisa spend every night together and 


Ogni mattina egli si desta allorché Elisa lascia cautamente il letto, ma continua a 
fingersi addormentato. Socchiude un occhio: la vede adattarsi il vestito, infilarsi 
le calze seduta sulla sedia, la vede prendere in mano le scarpe e andarsene in 
punta di piedi. Elisa é bella, docile, averla accanto gli da un senso di 


factions that were constantly evolving under the Regime may have proved too 
cumbersome for Pratolini to manage in the narrative (cf. Ben-Ghiat, “The Politics of 
Realism’’). 


224 Ellen Nerenberg 


completezza, di fiducia. Le batte precipitosamente il cuore nei momenti piu belli, 
ed anche questa é una cosa che ad Osvaldo garba. Tutto di Elisa gli garba: 
vorrebbe richiamarla, vorrebbe ch’ella uscisse dopo di lui, vorrebbe lasciarla in 
letto magari rimboccarle i lenzuoli. E ad una pace coniugale ch’egli aspira. E 
cid gli costerebbe appena qualche lira di piu. Ma appunto per questo non la 
trattiene. Egli si rende conto, adesso, svaniti i fumi dell’ubriacatura, che ogni 
gesto di Elisa é una finzione. Nell’aggiustarsi il vestito, non sapendosi spiata, 
Elisa ha un’espressione spaventosa, fatta di stanchezza e di disgusto: un ghigno 


che la sfigura. 
(795; emphasis added)™* 


Diverging from Ugo, Osvaldo would like to change the terms of his contract 
with Elisa. He desires not the spectacle of their relationship, its fiction (“ogni 
gesto di Elisa é una finzione”’) so much as “una pace coniugale.” An undetected 
Osvaldo observes Elisa who believes herself alone and thus, unafraid of censure 
(or worse, a consequent loss of capital), discloses her “true” feelings: disgust. 
Disgust for Osvaldo, for her work, perhaps for herself. Such an expression would 
understandably frighten Osvaldo: if her disgust proves great enough perhaps she 
will spurn him and he would lose that sense of “completion and trust” their 
relationship gives him. Finally, Osvaldo sees Elisa as disfigured because that 
smirk mars the beautiful face he has paid for. As the young Marx wrote, 
‘“Money’s properties are my properties and essential powers . . . I am ug/y but I 
can buy for myself the most beautiful of women (Marx 1978, 103, emphases in 
original). Osvaldo expects Elisa to play a part, he is even certain he could engage 
her to play-act marital bliss for “qualche lira di piu.” 

When Osvaldo does not distinguish between the real and the fantastic he 
actually offers an almost hilarious instantiation of the evil of prostitution 
according to Richard Korherr, a German theoretician of race whose work 
became quite popular in Italy following its publication in 1927. Prostitution 
should be cordoned off from and regulated by the state for, Korherr believed, 
whores “publicly mock(ed) mothers as ‘slaves of husbands and children.’ (Cited 
in de Grazia, 45). Victoria de Grazia observes that “only by segregating illicit 
sex from public view and by drawing a sharp line between bad women and good 
ones might the state preserve the site and purpose of legitimate sex, namely in 
marriage, at the initiative of the man and for the purposes of procreation” (45). 

The spectacle Osvaldo succumbs to suggests a blurring of historical contexts 
and discourses. Osvaldo capitulates not only to the routine spectacle of 
prostitution but also to what would have been the contemporary public discourse 
on prostitution. In other words, Osvaldo’s “‘seduction” may well correspond to 
the way that Fascism sought to entice the Italian polity through a variety of 


*4 We may want to compare this kind of voyeurism to that in Bernardo Bertolucci’s 
cinematic version of Moravia’s The Conformist (1970). 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 225 


spectacular practices, including the staging of sundry veritable spectacles and 
parades. Theatrics and the spectacular practices of advertising during Fascism, 
recent scholarship has argued, served to ratify the State through the creation of 
the mass spectator.*° Although the degree to which the State succeeded in 
creating mass spectators varied, the attractiveness of spectacle for a State such as 
Italy during Fascism is unquestionable; equally indisputable is the fact that the 
State sought to capitalize on the power of spectacle. 

Although Osvaldo is capable of recognizing the difference between the 
“finzione” of his relationship with Elisa and, say, sexual intimacy in marriage 
(which is to say, a scene of non-prostituted sex), he prefers not to. The show of a 
“pace coniugale” is preferable to the real life version for all the same hackneyed 
reasons that sex contracted for in prostitution may be preferable to its extra- 
prostituted equivalent: because it is less complicated. The spectacle of 
prostitution poses danger in and of itself.”° The ultimate hazard of prostitution is 
its lotus-eaters’ seduction, the ease with which, as a young Marx observed, a 
modicum of desire is satisfied by the exchange of a few lire. (And, if we read the 
letters prostitutes wrote to Senator Merlin during the time of the debates over the 
Bill, it was never much money, anyway.) 

Spectacle is integral for the transaction of prostitution in Cronache, which 
begins as a pantomime and ends in charade. Prostituere, in Latin, means to place 
before, expose publicly, offer for sale. As Staderini observes, however, “‘cotesto 
commercio non conosce crisi!”(732). Cronache’s prostitutes perform their 
pantomime of seduction “In piazza Signoria, Orsanmichele, e le Logge del 
Porcellino, ove fattori e sensali tengono i crocchi delle contratazioni”(735), in 
the local markets not far from the Santa Croce neighborhood. The prostitutes 


*° Schnapp offers an exceptional reading of the controversial spectacle, “18BL . . . teatro 
di masse per masse” staged in Florence in April 1934. For advertising during Fascism see 
Pinkus and also Stone. 

*° Dante, to use an early literary example, links spectacle, illusion, fraud and prostitution 
together in the figure of Thais in /nferno 18:126-36. That this figure derives (via Cicero) 
from Terence’s play, The Eunuch, serves also to bolster the performative (i.e., 
spectacular) aspects of this scene. Thais’s deceitful declaration (“Ho io grazie grandi apo 
te? / Anzi, maravigliose!” 18: 134-35) implies the contamination of both speech and the 
content it tries to express, something rendered plastically by the image of her immersion 
in shit. Significantly, Dante and Vergil, at the beginning of the following Canto, enter 
into the realm of the Simoniacs, those who have commercialized sacred things, creating a 
structural connection to prostitution in the Comedy. Thais is more than a spectacular 
figure from a spectacle (i.e., a play), for Dante, too, comments on the vision of the 
spectacle that her never-ending performance provides. The last verse of the canto states 
“E quinci sian le nostre viste sazie.” Pratolini makes a suprahistorical leap, linking 
Florence of the interwar and postwar period to the Florence of one of Dante’s cohorts, 
Dino Compagni, a strategy that Re reminds us is redeployed in Pratolini’s “Cronache 
fiorentine XX secolo,” published in Vittorini’s journal // Politecnico in 1947 (Re 94-95). 


226 Ellen Nerenberg 


silently lure their clients with the display of their available bodies from these 
open air markets down the several short streets to the Cervia. 


Le prostitute si trascinano dietro |’uomo con lo sguardo, poi con il muovere delle spalle e 
del sedere. II fattore le segue abbacinato, tumido in viso pit del naturale. Se incontra un 
conoscente sara il primo a salutarlo ed a accompagnarsi con lui per non destargli il 
minimo sospetto. Ammaestrate da cid, le prostitute controllano il loro uomo con la coda 
dell’occhio, nel timore di perderlo lungo la strada; cercano vie traverse, per metterlo a 
suo agio. Davanti a via del Corno, avviene |’ultima scena della pantomima. La donna ha 
gia infilato il portone dell’albergo, e riparata dietro la soglia spia le mosse del fattore. Lo 
vede guarda di qua e di la, che si ferma sulla cantonata, che imbocca la strada e poi si 
arresta, torna sui suoi passi e sbircia di nuovo |’occidente, quindi sfila lungo il muro e 
con tutta l’elasticita di cui ¢ capace raggiunge di un salto |’androne. 

(735) 


Cronache is rife with theatrical elements and devices such as this 
pantomime of prostitute and client.*? Ruggero Jaccobi believes that the 
spectacular component corresponds to the author’s political engagement. Within 
a year, he asserts, Pratolini 


scrive un libro tutto memoria, tutto affidato al musicale Io, che é Cronaca familiare, e 
tutto terza persona, che é Cronache di poveri amanti. Nell’uno avvicina Firenze a sé con 
un moto struggente, e nell’altro la stacca da sé con un’operazione epica, usando il 
termine appunto nel senso drammaturgico che gli ha dato Brecht. 

(Jacobi 172) 


Further, some critics believe that the representational immediacy Pratolini 
reaches for in Cronache (excepting, of course, the diegetic lapse of the sort 
discussed above) correlates to the kind of engagement Brecht’s epic theater 
sought to achieve. In “Per un saggio” from 1949 Pratolini emphasized 


the “elective affinity” between narrative strategy of the novel-as-chronicle and that of 
neorealist cinema, pointing out that film could provide the “unadorned chronicle” of the 
quotidian but is endowed with direct spatiotemporal immediacy that the novel could 
achieve only indirectly, through the mediation of words and the “complicity” of the 


reader. 
(Re 96) 


?7 From beginning to end the novel is not unlike Thornton Wilder’s Our Town, a popular 
drama whose dramatic apparatus includes a narrator in direct address to the audience, 
stage direction, “dialoghetti paralleli” (the unmediated speech between the lovers) like 
those in a Goldoni play. The novel itself brims with reference to performance: Via del 
Corno is described as a stage, there are references to the “comedy” of life, theatrical 
characters (e.g. Stenterello), the “chorus” of the cornacchiai, to the street theater like the 
annual scampanata or Carnival masques, to song and dance (see Jaccobi; and Ross). 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 227 


The socio-aesthetic aim, however, may not hit its mark. The clearest instance of 
Pratolini’s use of the spectacle of prostitution is found in the serata nera, the 
most explicit example of how Pratolini talks through prostitution and uses it to 
signify Fascism. 

The ‘“serata” especially illustrates the symbolization of Fascism’s 
debasement. It also offers a real spectacle: a show that the prostitutes put on for 
their guests, replete with costumes and “live acts.” All five cadre prostitutes are 
present: Olimpia, the “hostess” and Osvaldo’s date, Elisa who is escorted by 
Ugo, the indecorous Rosetta, Ada, and Chiccona. The depravity escalates as the 
scene develops. 


Ada e Chiccona strapparono un applauso a scena aperta: si sveld finalmente il perché 
della loro intimita. Rosetta aveva preso a nolo un tutu dal vestiarista teatrale di via della 
Pergola: era un bebé macabro e ridicolo. Olimpia indossava una “rete” rimastale 
dall’epoca che ella chiamava delle maisons d’amour. Elisa era sfacciatamente nuda, e 
nello stesso tempo pudica come dentro un saio: si convenne ch’era la piu bella delle 
cinque . . . aun certo momento Rosetta si era finta una neonata, e Chiccona |’aveva presa 
sulle ginocchie per allattarla. Ada, eccitata dal vino, aveva assalito Ugo a morsi e baci. 


Respinta, era caduta in convulsioni. 
(793) 


The perversion in the scene assumes Pasolinian proportions, beginning with 
Rosetta’s “macabre” impersonation of a baby, extending to the peculiar (and 
suggestive) onset of Ada’s convulsions, and culminating with Chiccona urinating 
on Osvaldo’s head. Ada’s convulsions suggest illness, more precisely, epilepsy. 
This fit also recalls Lombroso’s taxonomy of female deviance which he begins 
setting in motion in the 1880’s. Ultimately it is Osvaldo who solidifies the 
connection between depraved behavior and Fascism when he instructs Chiccona 
to continue saying “Non me la sono mica presa a male! Almeno Chiccona ha 
inteso farmi complimento! J camerati, invece, me lo fecero per spregio!” (794; 
emphasis in original)” 

Ada’s convulsions and the presence of Olimpia from the maisons d’amour 
suggest both the timelessness of prostitution (in the “oldest profession,” a whore 
is a whore is a whore) and the enduring predictability of female criminal 
behavior which appeared well before the advent of Fascism and lasts well after. 
With the name Olimpia Pratolini evokes the rich literary, spectacular, and 


8 Cinematic representation of Fascists routinely depicts them as sexual deviants, 
especially, it appears, in the 1970s. Cf. Pontecorvo’s Kapo (1959), Bertolucci’s The 
Conformist (1970) and 1900 (1975-76), Cavani’s I] portiere di notte (The Night Porter) 
(1974), Pasolini’s Salé (1975), and Wertmuller’s Pasqualino Settebellezze (Seven 
Beauties) (1976). 


228 Ellen Nerenberg 


iconographic history of the representation of prostitutes.” Olimpia’s history as 
prostitute-icon operates in tandem with Ada’s seizure. The problem with 
prostitution is the threat it poses to public health; Pratolini reminds us that in the 
pogrom of the prostitutes Ada is diagnosed with secondary syphilis (whose 
symptomology does not include seizures or convulsive episodes). But Ada’s 
convulsions recall, too, one of Lombroso’s first studies on epileptic pathology, 
which remained influential in Italian criminology until well after the Second 
World War. In Una donna nelle carceri fasciste, Cesira Fiori ascribes the poor 
treatment of epileptic inmates to a pervasive suspiciousness that they were “born 
criminals” of the sort that Lombroso tried to categorize. In Fiori’s opinion, 
Fascism’s greatest crime was to have arrested or thwarted the development of 
scientific inquiry in the educational system so that methodologies that had long 
since been debunked (viz., Lombrosanism) flourished in the absence of 
competition.” Tamar Pitch observes that Lombroso’s biologistic and 
essentializing categories of women in general and prostitutes in particular 
persisted through the 1960s. As I observed above, Lombrosian moralism colored 
the final version of the Merlin Bill. This moralism is operant in Cronache di 
poveri amanti and illustrated by the banal representation of the “sickness” of 
Olimpia and Ada, and of Elisa’s “cuore malato.””! 

Elisa with her heart “diseased” by prostitution and Ada with her prostitutes’ 
malady (no venereal disease but epilepsy) are the preparation for the truly 
invalidated whore in Via del Corno, the Signora. She is centrally situated in 
nearly every aspect of the novel; the Signora is so pivotal, in fact, that at a 
certain point she becomes the proprietor of Via del Corno, threatening to evict 
everyone and erect a sign that reads “strada privata.” She also engineers 
Aurora’s elopement, Nesi’s downfall, and even, in a way, Gesuina and Ugo’s 
meeting. The Signora, however, is propelled into a downward spiral of 
degeneration that is better understood in light of her prostituted past. 

The Signora is a retired prostitute who lives in immense wealth and semi- 


?° “Olympe” was in France one of the noms-de-guerre frequently assumed by upper-class 
prostitutes. Dumas /fi/s gave the name “Olympe” to the mercenary courtesan, modern rival 
of the sentimental Marguerite in La dame aux camelias, and the name was used 
frequently in the popular literature and drama of the 1860s (such as Augier’s Le Mariage 
d'Olympe). Yet another critic points to two earlier theatrical instances of Olympias: 
Felicien David’s opera, Herculanum, popular throughout the 1850s, and Zacherie 
Astruc’s unpublished play Les dialogues des viérges folles et des viérges sages. See 
Bernheimer; Flescher; Millstone; and Clayson. 

*° Fiori 82; see also Spackman, Decadent Genealogies, and Harrowitz. In La psicoanalisi 
nella cultura italiana, David cites an article from La stampa in December 1965 that 
claimed Lombrosianism was alive and well (“redignified”). For Lombroso’s importance 
to Fascist criminal anthropology see Perrando. 

*! Elisa’s “diseased heart” nicely dovetails with the story of another prostitute, Bianca, in 
Pratolini’s work, Le amiche (1939) who, significantly, dies of heart disease. 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 229 


infirmity. She gives great sums to the Fascio, but only because it is the political 
power of the day. As Ugo tells Gesuina, whom the Signora has adopted, “E 
riguardo alla politica . . . per la Signora rossi e neri sono la stessa zuppa” (864). 
Giulio warns Liliana of the Signora saying “Chissa dove mira! Non devi 
dimenticarti che é una vecchia maitresse’(610). In her dotage, however, the 
Signora, becomes a kind of patron saint of Via del Corno, though she is not all 
that she appears. In fact, Pratolini’s transformation of her into the Duce 
consolidates the correlation between prostitution’s wickedness and the evil of 
Fascism’s uncomplicated “seduction.”*” If the depravity of the Albergo Cervia is 
the metaphoric rendering of Fascist baseness, then the analogy of the Signora 
(the maitresse, or Madam and thus director of the brothel) to Mussolini (the 
titular head of the Fascist State) is a logical one. The Signora is the acme of 
depravity, “un essere sensitivo, una creatura che ha posto se stessa al centro dell’ 
Universo, un Dittatore che somiglia assai, nei suoi moti fisici ed intellettuali, a 
Colui che regge la Nazione” (938).*° 

Writing on Cronache in 1958, critic Alberto Asor Rosa is candidly 
nonplussed by the Signora and misreads several of her most significant 


*2 Prostitution offers the quintessentially consensual act (saving, naturally, the way in 
which women may find coercive factors in dismal socio-economic conditions). Seen in 
this light, Pratolini’s elision of prositution and fascism paves the way for the notion of 
“consent” that will characterize the postwar critical evaluation of Fascism. The belief that 
the Italian public acquiesced to Fascism, consenting and therefore permitting its advent, 
will find its chief spokesperson in Renzo de Felice, whose /nterpretazioni del fascismo 
appeared first in 1969. The belief that consent is a prerequisite to Fascism seems to be 
alive and well, judging from the clamor surrounding Daniel Goldhagen’s recent study of 
National Socialism. 

33 Tt is worth noting how Pratolini ensures the Signora’s conflation with the Duce. 
Following her massive stroke, which the carnacchiai misinterpret as her desire to 
defenestrate herself, the Signora, greatly diminished, performs her own kind of 
pantomime for the street from her windowsill. “Ella si spenzola dalla finestra, agita le 
mani per scacciare gli importuni, segna col dito i due orizzonti, abbraccia le case con un 
gesto, si batte al petto, mugula risentita come dire ‘Questo é tutto mio! Scio! Tutti!” (968, 
emphasis added.) The satirical dumbshow is completed when she is reduced to blowing 
bubbles for the delighted children of the street. Diane Ghirardo has commented on the 
architectural primacy of the balcony itself in the construction of the New Towns in the 
Agro Pontine, the triumph of Fascist rebuilding of the State that took place between 1928 
and 1940. Discussing the central piazza of Littoria, she notes that the balcony and the 
tower, positioned above the square, provide a “stage for the theatrical presentation of the 


Duce. The tower is emblematic of the Duce’s figure standing above . . . either in reality 
or symbolically through his representative, the gesture of the Fascist salute .. . 
corresponds to the gestural function of the tower .. . The tower . . . becomes itself the 


locus of memory, power, and order, and ever-present, starkly compelling backdrop for 
the virtual presence of the Duce” (Ghirardo 89). 


230 Ellen Nerenberg 


characteristics. “Il personaggio” of The Signora is for him intentionally 
“enigmatico e oscuro: lascia sospettare che dietro di esso ci siano dei simboli, 
dei profondi significati da svelare, che restano pero nascosti, incerti” (Asor Rosa 
140). But if the Signora perplexes, it is most likely owed to something critics 
would call a heterosexual imperative, or the blind spot of what poet-critic 
Adrienne Rich has termed compulsive heterosexuality. For Asor Rosa, who 
himself played no small role in the shaping of public reception of the 
“engagement” of postwar literature and writers, the Signora has one dominant 
valence only, that of “Il simbolo . . . di un Male che affonda le radici negli abissi 
piu oscuri e ributtanti dell’istinto umano pervertito” (140). Surely what is truly 
“perverted” about the Signora, and what “remains to be unveiled,” is what the 
critic cannot bring himself to name, to wit: her lesbianism and her sexual 
voracity, both of which, according to forensic and thus legal and public 
discourse, derive from her past in prostitution. Such criticism is unsurprising if 
what the critic has been listening to is Lombrosian moralism filtered both 
through Pratolini and the public debates on the Merlin Law which, as | 
mentioned, grew more and more condemning of the prostitutes and not 
prostitution as such. Failing to acknowledge fundamental attributes of the 
Signora makes her final appearances in the novel seem unmotivated, dramatic 
but vacuous, perhaps titillating. Pandering, as it were. 

The Signora loves no one or, put another way, her lesbian love is seen as 
“perverted” (from pervertere), turned away from its true object choice. The 
Rocco Code, as I mentioned, interdicted homosexual acts. Robin Pickering-Iazzi 
reminds us that “the representation of lesbianism as perversion, or disease, could 
avail itself of an existing discursive apparatus” shaped by physicians who treated 
venereal disease in the prostitute population from the 1880s onward (Pickering - 
Iazzi, 183-84). As Mary Gibson observes, lesbianism was widespread in the 
clinics where venereal disease was treated. Thus the study of sexual love 
between women and that of prostitution are historically twinned, born of the 
same historical moment (Gibson 194). 


IV. Da che il mondo é mondo: History, politics, and prostitution 
In immediate postwar Florence History meets itself coming and going. When 
Pratolini begins his Trilogy, “Una storia italiana,” with Metello in 1952 
(published in 1955), he will telescope back only so far as the middle of the 
Nineteenth Century to look for the germ of what became the episode of Fascism 
from 1922-43. But in his investigation of the root of Fascism in Cronache, he 
casts back much further. 

The notion of the “chronicle” provided Pratolini and others a much wider 
historical frame in which to place the phenomenon of Fascism. The chronicle, 


** The other two episodes of “Una storia italiana” are Lo scialo (1960) and Allegoria e 
derisione (1966). 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 231 


Fernand Braudel asserted in 1949, was able to capture “a history of gentle 
rhythms, of groups and groupings” instead of the “surface disturbance, the waves 
stirred up by the powerful movement of the tides” of history’s grand events 
(Braudel 1980, 2, cited in Re 95). In 1947 Pratolini himself writes three 
chronicles, each referring to Dino Compagni’s late thirteenth-century Cronica, 
and not with regard to genre alone.*° 

In “Cronache fiorentine XX secolo,” which Asor Rosa believes appeared 
concurrently of Cronache, Pratolini declares that in the recent military 
engagement “Non era pit! Nazifascismo e Nazioni Unite che si battevano; erano 
fiorentini di due opposte fazioni che si ritrovavano ad uno dei tanti appunti 
nella storia.”*° Moreover, in the same article, “A Firenze il fascismo s’impose 
allo stesso modo che si imposero i Guelfi” (137). 

Perhaps the author has avoided identifying his “red” and “black” blocs in 
Cronache precisely because he believes they conform to an established set of 
opposing political forces, reaching down from the time of Compagni: the Guelfs 
against the Ghibellines, the Black Guelfs against the Whites, the Republicans 
against supporters of the Medici, competing factions that continue to ones of 
Pratolini’s own time, Fascists against Anti-Fascists, Christian Democrats against 
Communists, Monarchists against Republicans. 

But Pratolini’s journalistic chronicle offers a corrective to such “antico 
sangue.” Evidently, love helps save Florence from its own internecine strife. As 
he states: “C’é anche amore in questa citta: un grande amarsi col cuore e col 
sesso che compensa I’odio che ha imperversato lungo i secoli” (137). A concern 
for love stylistically consolidates Pratolini’s chronicle-novel and _ satisfies 
ideological aims. In a more felicitous passage of his study, Asor Rosa observes 
that love is not limited to the lovers of the title but governs all the characters. 


Ma Amore (capacita di sopravvivere e di salvarsi nella miseria e nell’oppressione) ¢ 
anche quello di altri personaggi, come Maciste, come Ugo, che altrimenti talvolte 
riuscirebbero inesplicabili. Poiché in loro, il communismo, in cui credono, il sacrificio, a 
cui si offrono, non é in realta che Amore, un grande Amore per |’umanita sofferente, per 
gli oppressi, per i poveri, per tutti coloro che schiaccia inesorabilmente sotto di sé. 

(143) 


For Asor Rosa it is simple: in Cronache, love is communism. Pratolini, 


5 The above-mentioned “Cronache fiorentine XX secolo” and both Cronaca familiare 
and Cronache all appeared in 1947. Critics tend to see the analogy between Compagni 
and Pratolini more readily than than one between Pratolini and another early Florentine 
chronicler, Giovanni Villani, for the reason that Compagni (and Pratolini following his 
lead) concentrates on the political factionalism of Florence. 

36 Pratolini, “Cronache fiorentine XX secolo” cited in Asor Rosa 136. The attribution of 
emphasis is unknown. 


232 Ellen Nerenberg 


despite rumors of his militancy, eschews such political classification; love, for 
him, is a balm for the factionalism found in Florence “da che il mondo é 
mondo.” If love can correct ages-old dissension, then, as Cronache makes clear, 
it should be sought out and revered, not deformed, as happens in its sale during 
the transaction of prostitution and, quite literally, during its enactment. 

Love is what stands at the heart of the “problem” of prostitution. Love, the 
argument goes, should not be paid for or coerced. For Gayle Rubin, the 
difference between giving something freely and giving something in exchange 
for money lies in the complex system of feelings attendant on the act of giving. 
Glossing Marcel Mauss’s influential essay on the anthropological importance of 
giving gifts she observes that “Gift giving confers upon its participants a special 
relationship of trust, solidarity, and mutual aid. One can solicit a friendly 
relationship in the offer of a gift, acceptance implies a willingness to return a gift 
and a confirmation of the relationship (Rubin 1975, 172). 

The interpretants of prostitution’s unstable sign may change but one thing 
regularly resurfaces: its censure and the “pogrom” of the prostitutes deriving 
therefrom. Training specifically on the historical moment in which it appears, 
Pratolini’s ambivalent portrayal of prostitution in Cronache di poveri amanti, as 
women’s work and Fascist machination, offers an analogy for the public 
discourse on prostitution that emerged following Fascism. Like the discussions 
in Parliament concerning the Merlin Law, Pratolini’s representation of 
prostitution advances from politically engaged and aware to predictable and 
banal. From, as Asor Rosa would have it, “Communism” to the equivalent of 
Fascism. Prostitution in Cronache is equated with Fascism: through its 
spectacular enactment of it, love is deformed, it is “perverted” (as we see in the 
Signora’s lesbianism and nymphomania), and commodified. 

But Pratolini’s argument against and manipulation of prostitution in 
Cronache reveals an evaluation of it informed not so much by Fascism or social 
issues following Fascism’s fall as by the lessons offered by Florentine 
chroniclers who have come before him. Pratolini’s blending of different 
discourses on prostitution shows how little different his “Neorealist” treatment of 
it is from, say, the complaint about prostitution dating from a century before, and 
even earlier. The incongruous and a-historical maneuverings in Cronache’s 
portrayal of prostitution shed light on the author’s understanding of History and 
of Fascism, no isolated or unusual event or even a phenomenon limited to the 
Twentieth Century. Written in 1946 but set in a Florence twenty years earlier, 
Cronache brings together elements pertaining to the discourse on prostitution 
belonging to these two precise historical moments and beyond: to Lombroso’s 
taxonomy of female criminality dating from the 1880’s, to nineteenth-century 
French painting, to the association of prostitution and the theater, to a political 
problem plaguing Florence and Italy “da secoli . . . da che il mondo é mondo.” 

Wesleyan University 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 233 
Works Cited 


Anderson, Benedict. Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of 
Nationalism. London: Verso, 1991. 

Asor Rosa, Alberto. Vasco Pratolini. Roma: Edizioni Moderne, 1958. 

Ben-Ghiat, Ruth. “The Politics of Realism: Corrente di Vita Giovanile and the Youth 
Culture of the 1930s.” Stanford Italian Review 8.1-2 (1990): 139-64. 

. “Neorealism in Italy 1930-1950: From Fascism to Resistance.” Romance 
Languages Annual 3 (1991): 155-59. 

Bernheimer, Charles. Figures of Ill Repute: Representing Prostitutes in 19th-Century 
France. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 1989. 

Clayson, Hollis. Painted Love: Prostitution in French Art of the Impressionist Era. New 
Haven: Yale UP, 1991. 

Codice Penale e norme complementari. 3rd edition. 31 October 1982. Ed. Giovanni 
Conso. Milano: Giuffré Editori, 1982. 

David, Michel. La psicoanalisi nella cultura italiana. Torino: Boringhieri, 1966. 

de Grazia, Victoria. How Fascism Ruled Women: Italy 1922-45. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1992. 

Dombroski, Robert . L’esistenza ubbidiente: letterati italiani sotto il fascismo. Napoli: 
Guida Editori, 1984. 

Ecstavasia, Audrey. “Fucking (with Theory) For Money: Toward an Introduction of 
Escort Prostitution.” Essays in Postmodern Culture. Ed. Eyal Amiran and John 
Unsworth. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1993. 177-98. 

Fiori, Cesira. Una donna nelle carceri fasciste. Roma: Riuniti Editori, 1965. 

Flescher, Sharon. “More on a Name: Manet’s Olympia and the Defiant Heroine in Mid- 
Nineteenth-Century France.” Art Journal 45 (1985): 27-35. 

Gender, Patriarchy, and Fascism in the Third Reich. Ed. Elaine Martin. Detroit: Wayne 
State UP, 1993. 

Ghirardo, Diane. Building New Communities: New Deal America and Fascist Italy. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1989. 

Gibson, Mary. Prostitution and the State in Italy, 1860-1915. New Brunswick: Rutgers 
UP, 1986. 

Gli alleati e la ricostruzione in Toscana. Ed. Roger Absalom. Firenze: Olschki, 1988. 

Goldhagen, Daniel. Hitler’s Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust. 
New York: A. A. Knopf, 1996. 

Harrowitz, Nancy. Anti-Semitism, Misogyny, and the Logic of Cultural Difference. 
Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1995. 

Helsinger, Elizabeth. “Consumer Power and the Utopia of Desire: Christina Rossetti’s 
‘Goblin Market.’” ELH 58 (1991): 903-33. 

Jaccobi, Ruggero. “Uno spettacolo a scena fissa e multipla.” Vasco Pratolini. Ed. 
Luciano Lusi. Taranto: Mandes Editore, 1988. 172-76. 

Jewell, Keala. The Poiesis of History: Experimenting with Genre in Postwar Italy. Ithaca, 
NY: Cornell UP, 1992. 

Koonz, Claudia. Mothers in the Fatherland: Women, the Family, and Nazi Politics. New 
York: St. Martin’s Press, 1987. 

Lenz, Joseph. “Base Trade: Theater as Prostitution.” ELH 60 (1993): 833-55. 


234 Ellen Nerenberg 


Lettere dalle case chiuse. Ed. Lina Merlin and Carla Barberis. Roma: Edizioni Avanti!, 
1955. 

Lizzani, Carlo. “‘Cronache di poveri amanti.’ II film.” Vasco Pratolini e il cinema. Ed. 
Andrea Vannini. Firenze: Edizioni La Bottega del Cinema, 1987. 23-28. 

Luperini, Romano. // Novecento. 2 vols. Torino: Loescher, 1981. 406-07. 

Merlin, Lina. La mia vita. Ed. Elena Marinucci. Firenze: Giunti Barbera, 1989. 

Millstone, Amy. “French Feminist Theater and the Subject of Prostitution.” The Image of 
the Prostitute in Modern Literature. Ed. Pierre Horn and Mary Beth Pringle. New 
York: Frederick Ungar, 1984. 19-27. 

Mosse, George. Nationalism and Sexuality: Middle-Class Morality and Sexual Norms in 
Modern Europe. Madison: U of Wisconsin P, 1985. 

Nationalisms and Sexualities. Ed. Andrew Parker, Mary Russo, Doris Sommer, and 
Patricia Yeager. New York: Routledge, 1992. 

Newman, Karen. “Directing Traffic: Subjects, Objects, and the Politics of Exchange.” 
differences: A Journal of Feminist Cultural Studies 2.2 (1990): 41-54. 

Ottavi, Antoine. “La formation d’un romancier italien dans |’entre-deux-guerres: Vasco 
Pratolini.” Hommage a Louise Cohen: Langue et Littérature Italienne. Annales de 
la faculté des lettres et sciences humaines de Nice 42 (1982): 175-201. 

Palermo, Antonio. “Gli anni Trenta: per una nuova periodizzazione della storiografia 
letteraria.” AA.VV. La cultura italiana negli anni 1930-45. Napoli: Edizioni 
scientifiche italiane, 1984. 159-81. 

Perrando, G.G. “La medicina legale italiana nell’ultimo decennio.” Archivio di 
antropologia criminale 47 (1927): 562-89. 

Pickering-Iazzi, Robin. Politics of the Visible: Writing, Women, Culture and Fascism. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1997. 

Pinkus, Karen. Bodily Regimes: Italian Advertising Under Fascism. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1995. 

Pitch, Tamar. “La sessualita, le norme, lo Stato. II dibattito sulla Legge Merlin.” 
Memoria 17.2 (1986): 24-41. 

Pratolini, Vasco. “Testimonianza su ‘Cronache di poveri amanti.’” Ed. Andrea Vannini. 
Firenze: Edizioni La Bottega del Cinema, 1987. 29-30. 

. Cronache di poveri amanti in Romanzi. Milano: Mondadori, 1993. 

Re, Lucia. Calvino and the Age of Neorealism: Fables of Estrangement. Stanford: UP, 
1992. 

Rosengarten, Frank. Vasco Pratolini: The Development of a Social Novelist. Carbondale: 
Southern I]linois UP, 1965. 

Ross, Silvia. “Resistance and the Carnivalesque: Florentine Festivals in Pratolini’s 
Cronache di poveri amanti.” Unpublished paper presented at the American 
Association of Italian Studies, February 1997, Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 

Rothberg, Michael. “The Prostitution of Paris: Late Capital of the Twentieth Century.” 
Found Object 1.1 (1992): 2-22. 

Rubin, Gayle. “The Traffic in Women: Notes on the ‘Political Economy’ of Sex.” 
Toward an Anthropology of Women. Ed. Rayna Reiter. New York: Monthly Press, 
1975. 157-210. 

Schnapp, Jeffrey. Staging Fascism: I8BL and the Theater of the Masses for the Masses. 
Stanford: Stanford UP, 1996. 


Representing Prostitution During and After Italian Fascism 235 


Spackman, Barbara. Decadent Genealogies: The Rhetoric of Sickness from Baudelaire to 

D'Annunzio. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1988. 
. Fascist Virilities: Rhetoric, Ideology, and Social Fantasy in Italy. Minneapolis: 

U of Minnesota P, 1996. 

Stone, Marla. “Staging Fascism: The Exhibition of the Fascist Revolution.” Journal of 
Contemporary History 28.2 (1993): 215-43. 

Teal, Laurie. “The Hollow Women: Modernism, the Prostitute, and Commodity 
Aesthetics.” differences: A Journal of Feminist Cultural Studies 7.3 (1995): 80-108. 

The Marx-Engels Reader. Ed. Robert Tucker. New York: W. W. Norton, 1978. 

Theweleit, Klaus. Male Fantasies I: Women, Floods, Bodies, History. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1987. 





Alan Perry 


Fallen Partisans: 
Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 


L'agiografia é permessa, ha un senso ed una giustificazione per i fedeli di 
cento e cinquecento anni dopo, che cercano la certezza, l'esaltazione, la 
propaganda della fede nelle figure di confessori della fede. 

Ferruccio Parri (1951) 
There are in every country, a certain number of objects, that education offers 
equally to all: and it is the uniform impression of those objects that 
produces in the inhabitants that resemblance of ideas and sentiments to 
which we give the name of the spirit and character of a nation. 

James Stanfield (1813) 


I. Introduction 

Italians often sacralized the memory of fallen partisans in World War II through 
commemorative biography. This genre has received little critical attention over 
the last fifty years, in part because until recently the sacrifices of the hostilities, 
hallowed by political parties, have remained active in validating the Italian 
democracy (Kertzer 70- iL), With the fall of the First Republic, however, the 
founding Myth of the Resistance — an explanation of what Italians earned from 
the burdens of war — has lost much of its effectiveness. Only now may scholars 
turn with dispassionate analysis to explore the various ways in which Italians 
assigned meaning to their fratricidal civil war and hostile action against German 
occupation. 

As countless historians have documented, the Italian armed Resistance 
movement against German and Fascist forces in 1943-1945 was a cruel and 
bloody affair, a war without quarter. Nazis and Mussolini’s Black Brigades 
burned entire villages, brutalized women and children, and tortured and executed 
partisan prisoners without trial. Partisans, of course, committed many atrocities 
of their own. As a nation, Italy had never experienced such a form of war. In 


' Clark, in Modern Italy 1871-1995, states that after the war, the “values” of the 
Resistance became sacrosanct. Even thirty years later a major law on public order laid 
down stiff penalties for any group who dared to criticized them” (316). On a more 
theoretical level, when one considers the lore of the Resistance, an observation by 
Kertzer seems appropriate. In paraphrasing Edelman, he states that “our most 
cherished and deeply rooted political beliefs are rarely if ever subjected to debate or 
critical examination. It is just because the are so deeply held that any sincere debating 
of their validity is so threatening, for to do so is to recognize that they may be 
erroneous” (96). 

For an in-depth analysis of the Italian Resistance movement and its harsh aspects as 
a civil war, see Pavone’s acclaimed study Una guerra civile: saggio storico sulla 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


238 Alan Perry 


trying to make sense of the carnage, however, Italians had a ready-made 
interpretive blueprint to help them overcome the sorrows they experienced: the 
cultural paradigm and lore of Christian martyrdom, in which death was 
ultimately victorious. Automatically, on private and public levels, they 
appropriated Christian images and allusions of heroic victimization in 
remembering their dead. 

Sacralizing soldiers who died in combat was not a new concept. Indeed, as 
George Mosse in Fallen Soldiers documents, the national sanctification of war 
dead has a history that goes back at least two hundred years. In Italy, even before 
World War I, a strong nationalist movement led by Enrico Corradini acclaimed 
death in war as the finest outlet of expression for love of the nation. Later, from 
the first days of Mussolini’s regime, Italian Fascism played upon the notion of 
sanctity surrounding sacrificial death in order to glorify the fallen of World War 
I. In sublimating the cult of the war dead, the Fascists championed the necessity 
of dying for one’s country in order that the patria might continually be 
regenerated. The ideal of death fed off aggressive, masculine ideals: men were 


moralita nella Resistenza. Battaglia’s Storia della Resistenza italiana remains a 
standard text; Delzell provides one of the best English accounts of the Resistance in 
Mussolini’s Enemies: The Italian Anti-Fascist Resistance. For a succinct 
reinterpretation of the Resistance Myth, see Gobbi’s II mito della Resistenza. 

Two major studies have traced the phenomenon of the sanctification of war dead in a 
European or more specific Italian context: Mosse’s Fallen Soldiers: Reshaping the 
Memory of the World Wars and Gentile’s The Sacralization of Politics in Fascist 
Italy. Guerri’s Fascisti (1995) and Isnenghi’s Le Guerre degli Italiani: Parole, 
immagini, ricordi 1848-1945 also address the process. Makolkin’s Name, Hero and 
Icon has proved invaluable in contextualizing heroic biography 

According to Mosse, the first signs of the sacralization of war dead in Europe 
occurred in the French Revolution and the German Wars of Liberation during the 
nineteenth century. Before these wars, conscripted or mercenary soldiers had died for 
a king, but now educated, middle-class volunteer soldiers engaged in battle for the 
service of their nation, and in order to get men to be willing to die, the State had to 
promote war in religious terms of redemption. Soldiers who died for their nation were 
promoted as offering the highest form of personal sacrifice which provided the 
catalyst for national regeneration (Mosse 16-17). The notion was deeply Christian: 
just as it was necessary for Jesus of Nazareth to die to redeem humankind from sin and 
ensure eternal life, death in war became necessary to redeem the nation (17). In Italy 
after the war, only one side — the victorious partisans and their political parties — 
could lay claim to this paradigm. How Italians remember and interpret the war varies 
because countless Italians experienced the war so differently. Since Italian armies had 
been defeated on the field of battle, many remember the war with shame. Allied 
occupation of the South prevented a large populace from experiencing the full brunt 
of civil war and subsequent glorification of partisan victory; so in the South, much of 
the memory of the war focuses on the experiences Italians had under the Allied 
Military Government. Finally, as Isnenghi indicates in Le guerre degli italiani 1848- 
1945, Fascists and their sympathizers could not claim victory, and the wide support 
for Fascism which had existed for twenty years was deliberately forgotten, almost as a 
form of cultural amnesia (253). The memory of the war is therefore fractured (247). On 
an official level, however, it was made sacred by the victors. 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 239 


taught that to die for the State as soldiers was virile and sacred. This Fascist 
model paradoxically influenced how the Resistance later shaped its memory of 
fallen partisans, for an entire generation of Italian citizens had been saturated in 
its norms. 

During the Resistance, however, as a whole, the virile heroic model the 
Fascists had exalted no longer held, for massive concentrations of trained soldiers 
did not die in combat as they were hit by shrapnel or fired their arms. Rather, the 
Resistance model of death was stoic, passive and enduring: large numbers of 
unarmed and innocent civilians were killed and, quite frequently, captured 
partisans were executed after having been tortured. Since this particular manner 
of death astonishingly matched the collective memory and lore of Jesus’ 
crucifixion and martyrdom of Christian saints — sustained through the centuries 
by the visual arts, the Lives of Saints, homilies, and popular folklore — these 
archetypes became the paradigm within which Italians commemorated their dead. 
Partisan sacrifice was seen as ultimately victorious, offered as a ransom to atone 
for the debacles of Fascism, and it legitimized the eternal survival of the new 
nation. 

The spirit of this sacrificial model, in its own way as heroic as the Fascist 
one, was first expressed by partisans themselves in letters written just a few 
hours or minutes before their executions. Perhaps no text, historical or literary, 
better illuminates the deep values that animated the Resistance than Malvezzi and 
Pirelli’s Le lettere di condannati a morte della Resistenza Italiana. These letters 
bear elegant witness to the profound love partisans had for their faith, country 
and family. Partisans believed that their deaths would ensure Italy’s freedom, 
often pardoned their executioners, told their friends and family members that they 
would watch over them from heaven, and declared that they died with a clear 
conscience knowing that they had done nothing wrong in combating their 
Nazifascist enemies. Indeed, according to many scholars, historians and 


> The power of the martyrdom paradigm used by Italy and other nations in sacralizing 
war death would be exaggerated were we not to realize that, to various extents, it was 
never taken over in full-strength for in largely secular hands it was inevitably 
secularized. Christian martyrs were pacifists who willingly embraced death for Christ 
and his Church. In Italy’s case, Fascists and partisans did not promote pacifism as a 
heroic ideal or want their constituents to die for the Church. They did want their fallen 
members to appear heroic, however, and they eagerly tapped into a cultural paradigm 
that explained death as ultimately triumphant. 

As Richards indicates in The New Italians, no one exactly knows what the casualty 
figures were for the Resistance (112). In memory, however, Italians remember and 
honor especially those who they believed as having died an innocent and passive, yet 
victorious, death. It seems quite paradoxical that partisan victors cast themselves as 
victims and the Nazifascist losers as brutal executioners who did most of the killing 
(Isnenghi, “La guerra” 107). But by forcing the masses to focus intently upon their 
victimization, they attenuated the memory of,a civil war: as victims, how could they 
have killed Fascists in more or less equal numbers? (Isnenghi, Le guerre 108). 

As Carocci states in La resistenza italiana: “Il sapere imminente della propria fine é 
l’occasione che da modo a questi uomini e a queste donne di illuminare se stessi e di 
comunicarci la ragione profonda della loro fede” (149). 

In modern Italian usage, the general term ‘“‘Nazifascista” refers to a member or 


240 Alan Perry 


government officials, the simple letters of the condemned are the most majestic 
and morally penetrating documents of the Resistance. 

These themes were later taken up in commemorative biographies, published 
almost entirely during, but not limited to, the first ten years after the war. Their 
exact number may never be established, but Roberto Battaglia listed over eight 
in the bibliography of his 1964 edition of La Storia della Resistenza Italiana. 
These works share common traits, and frequently make use of the same tropes, 
regardless of the political affiliation of the partisan involved, or the region where 
the partisan served. Except for a very few, most of the biographies are composite 
works, compiled by more than one person. From a critical point of view, some 
have already received recognition, and include: Beltrami’s // Capitano, Ennio 
Giunchi’s Uomini e gesta della banda Corbari-Casadei (1945), and Alcide Cervi’s 
I miei sette figli (1956) sponsored by the Communist Party. Hundreds more 
are archived in the Istituti Storici della Resistenza; however, most have remained 
relatively unappreciated and unknown. 

Because the biographies focus so intently on sacrificial death and are replete 
with Christian allusions, they read as modern day examples of hagiography, 


supporter of German Wehrmacht and SS units who were allied with the Fascist Black 
Brigades in opposing the partisans. I use the anglicized form of “Nazifascist” 
similarly. 

No biography listed in Battaglia’s bibliography, even in subsequent editions, has a 
woman as its subject, but Renata Vigano filled this void when she published a short 
work of biographical sketches entitled Donne della Resistenza (Bologna: STEB, 
1955). 

Beltrami’s biography of her husband Filippo was republished for the third time in 
1994. As Falaschi in La resistenza armata indicates, it is free from the oppressively 
over-sentimental rhetoric of sacrifice which is often found in other biographies (51). 
Furthermore, in his introduction to the 1994 edition, Gianni Rodari states that 
Beltrami’s small capolavoro falls between history and literary fiction (‘Introduction” 
8). Giunchi’s Uomini e gesta della banda Corbari-Casadei was written, compiled and 
published not only for a family but for the surviving members of the partisan band 
which Corbari and Casadei led during the war. Its tone is less elegiac than most other 
commemorative works, and rather than mourn the lives of the dead, it celebrates the 
collective endeavors of the group and the daring adventures of partisan life (Falaschi 
119). Corbari and Casadei were legendary figures in the Romagna region during the 
war, and Giunchi tells their story with simple language very much in the spirit of a 
popular tale (119). Cervi’s I miei sette figli does not aim to help the Cervi family 
cope with the tragedy of their seven executed sons but to exalt publicly the heroes of 
a social group. An introduction is provided by a partial reproduction of a 
commemorative speech given by Piero Calamandrei in Rome on 17 January 1954. 
Cervi’s loss had no equal in the Resistance or other conflicts going back to biblical 
times, says Calamandrei, and its legendary proportions have to be retold to thwart 
any attempt by ex-fascists to sully the partisan cause and to ensure that no one ever 
forget what those who died in the Resistance fought for: “Quando gli autori di quelle 
catastrofi non solo tornano indisturbati in liberta, ma invece di starsene in disparte 
cauti e discreti osano riprendere |’antica tracotanza per gettar fango sulla guerra 
partigiana, allora noi abbiamo il dovere di rievocare qui i nostri morti, e di rinnovare 
qui, dopo dieci anni, il giuramento di non tradirli” (Calamandrei, / miei sette figli 8). 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 241 


reflecting the stories and many themes found in The Lives of Saints. The plot 
structure of the passio — based on diametrical opposition between good and evil, 
virtue and vice (Altman 1) — looms large in the partisan biographies, for the 
episodes of torture and execution of the partisan, recounted with the rhetoric of 
sacrifice, parallel those in the hagiographies of martyred saints. Just as the 
Christian martyr diametrically opposes pagan culture in the passio (Elliot 18), 
partisans diametrically oppose Nazifascist persecutors. Thematically, they also 
capture the essence of hagiographic tales, so much so that they allow us to grasp 
how Italians, conditioned by centuries of Catholic thought and culture, draw 
analogies to Jesus’ Passion when dealing with faithful death. 


II. Exempla 

One of the striking features of biographies is found in their consistently similar, 
almost formulaic structure. They begin with a picture cameo of the fallen, placed 
before the preface or introduction, and then they reconstruct the life of the 
biographee through copies of letters, citations for bravery frequently awarded 
posthumously, diary excerpts, chronicles of battles and daring feats of bravery, 
and written testimony from priests and former teachers. 

Together the various sources stress how the partisan’s sacrificial death must 
not go unrecognized, otherwise he or she would have died in vain. Their deaths 
must serve as a guide for future generations of Italians. For example, Ivo 
Carossini in Gianotto Bado: Poeta ed eroe (1947) writes: 


Giannotto Bado non deve essere morto invano, e dalla sua tomba e dalle tante altre di 
combattenti e di patrioti disseminate nei campi del martirio d’Europa e d’Italia, 
dobbiamo trarre gli auspici di una vita migliore. Giovani generosamente amanti 
caddero a migliaia, e nell’estremo anelito sorrise loro la visione di una Patria grande e 
sicura, illuminata dal fulgore di una perenne liberta. 

(21) 


Contributing writers also create the sense that the fallen were born solely for 
the purpose of dying for the cause: their intellectual, spiritual and moral 
foundation aimed at one supreme moment of sacrifice. In the biography 
Giacomo Chilesotti (1947), for instance, the first chapter is entitled “Giacomo 
era nato per tutto questo.” Here, Chilesotti’s mother builds her son’s entire life 
around God’s divine plan for her son to offer his life for the Resistance. In his 
state of holiness, Giacomo prayed that he serve bravely and, if captured, be 
spared from torture. Chilesotti’s wife then adds: “E Dio lo esaudi poiché la morte 
lo colse fulminea, al vertice della sua vita, donde il trapasso fra la terra e il cielo 
non fu che l’ultimo gradino dell’ ascesa” (175). 

Instead of impartially recounting lives, partisan biographies commemorate 
and memorialize the fallen who only appear as heroes.’ These biographies are 


'l In his capacity as editor of the journal MLJI, Parri explained in 1951 why he had 
initially not wanted to publish biographical profiles written in elegiac tones: 
“Iniziando la vita di questa rivista i redattori si sono posti, espressamente, il 
problema della biografia e del posto da assegnarle nel nostro quadro e nelle nostre 
ambizioni di ricostruzione storica. Abbiamo preso una risoluzione, di massima 


242 Alan Perry 


eulogies: written memorials that appear as material monuments in their own 
right, made of paper instead of stone. The genre of heroic biography, in fact, as 
Anna Makolkin in Name, Hero, Icon: Semiotics of Nationalism Through Heroic 
Biography (1991) emphasizes, provides an “ancient way of poeticizing our 
presence in the world . .. a verbal monument, and a name-metaphor serves as its 
basic discursive construction material” (15). 

As a composite whole, the biographies cast the fallen as exempla who 
appear much like the martyred saints of the Early Church, the most famous 
heroes of Christian culture. Biographers fashion the dead as saints in a variety of 
ways, focusing on their exemplary moral character, bravery, generosity, 
selflessness and simple Christian faith. Nino Torretta’s friend, for instance, 
remembered his sanctity in this way: 


. .. Nino lo ricorderemo cosi e sempre nella luce sua: nella grandezza di chi tutto dona 
senza nulla chiedere: il martire che, in spirito cristiano e con gioia, dond giovinezza, 
entusiasmi, affetti, speranze, la vita, perché la Patria vivesse. 

(Nino Torretta 78) 


Furthermore, an aura of devout reverence shrouds the fallen. For example, 
Paola Zancan speaks directly to her fallen husband: “Dal Tuo sacrificio 
vorremmo imparare, almeno, a donarci, in quest’ ora, alla Patria senza esitazione, 
senza ingenerosita. Anche per pronunciare questa promessa, il Tuo ricordo ci 
pone in ginocchio” (66). 

Authors will also frequently mention how local citizens esteemed their 
fallen partisan as a saint, as is the case for Marcello Spicola: 


Una cosa si noto senz’altro. Tutti non esitarono a chiamarlo santo e, parlando di lui o 
scrivendo di lui, quasi tutti, come di comune accordo indirizzarono a lui direttamente 
la parola come se non fosse morto. 

(Murari 61) 


Spicola was not dead but viewed as a protector, alive in heaven. From a 
condolence letter to his parents we read: 


. il vostro Marcello non é morto . . . Egli @ passato in trionfo per la citta, fra il 
reverente omaggio di tutta la popolazione e questo grande onore Egli ha condiviso 
con gli eroici Caduti che lo precedettero .. . & andato nel mondo degli Eroi, nel 
Paradiso dei Santi, dove é vivo pill che mai . . . dove non si muore mai. 

(63) 


In essence, these biographies present fallen partisans as examples of sacrifice 
meant to inspire and guide. 





naturalmente, negativa. Ed a malincuore: sarebbe stato allettante dar spazio a profili, 
medaglioni delle nostre figure pit’ care e caratteristiche, ed anche pil facile sarebbe 
stata la redazione dei fascicoli e pid nutrita la collaborazione. Ma quanti pericoli e 
quanto evidenti! . . . noi escludevamo dal nostro piano ideale la propaganda, e 
guardavamo alla biografia con |l’occhio preoccupato dell’artista puro verso il 
monumento in posa” (28) 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 243 


III. Torture and Death: Imitatio Cristi 

While many biographical subjects are cast as saints, stronger hagiographic 
connections are often directly made with Jesus of Nazareth and his crucifixion, as 
is the case, when contributors recall the physical disposition of the fallen. 

Lino Lazzarini remembers Mario Todesco’s dead body in this manner: 
“Passai alla seconda salma: mi apparve il volto di Mario Todesco, sbiancato dalla 
morte. Anche allora mi venne istantaneo il raffronto; sembrava il volto di 
Cristo, appena deposto dalla Croce” (63). Egidio Meneghetti also makes a 
similar link when speaking of Todesco’s funeral: 


Quando il rito ebbe termine, tutti quei volti di donna, bianchi tra i veli scuri, si 
affollarono ansiosi intorno alla bara, e un infermiere lentamente la scoperse. Il 
corpo, vestito di nero, era quasi completamente nascosto da fiori: soltanto il viso 
emergeva, esangue, affilato, con le stimmate del martirio. La serena compostezza, la 
regolarita dei lineamenti, la barba bionda, suscitavano immediatamente il ricordo di 
Cristo deposto. Ma invece dell’austerita solenne vi era la dolcezza del fanciullo che 
dorme nella innocenza dei sogni. 

(Lazzarini 9) 


The most explicit allusions to Christ’s Passion and saintly martyrdom occur 
when the author reconstructs scenes of torture. Note for instance how the 
memory of Christ’s crucifixion influenced Piero Clamandrei’s rhetoric when 
recalling the death of a partisan named Aldo Salvetti: 


. . alla fine crocifisso, ancora vivente, contro un portone e invitato cosi, ancora una 
volta, a rivelare il nome dei suoi compagni; ed egli prima di reclinare la testa morendo 
sulla croce, disse soltanto: ‘Conoscerete i miei compagni quando verranno a 
vendicarmi’. 

(“Quello ero un uomo” 353) 


Indeed, Salvetti had been severely beaten, but Calamandrei enhances his afflicted 
condition by describing him as a suffering Christ. 

Ilio Barontini, an ex-partisan who fought in the Emilia-Romagna, recalls 
the sacrifices made by women in these terms: 


Esse che parlavano tanto volentieri, col dialetto largo e le franche risate, si misero 
subito a tacere, a operare in silenzio, serie, e non hanno parlato neppure sotto la 
tortura, neppure quando i fascisti e i tedeschi strappavano le unghie, tagliavano le 
mammelle, pungevano gli occhi. 

(Le donne della resistenza 10) 


Because of the power of the martyrdom model, this depiction automatically 
conjures up a link to an ancient past when women, as portrayed in the Lives of 
Saints, were tortured in a similar manner because of their Christian faith. We 
may not have documented evidence that indicates how many times the 
Nazifascists blinded women, ripped out their fingernails and cut off their breasts, 
but the very fact that Italians remember them as having committed these 
atrocities triggers the typological memory of early martyrs. Italian cultural 


244 Alan Perry 


coordinates account for this association, for the phenomenon of how people 
remember is always influenced by the past. 

As Maurice Halbwachs illustrates in his seminal work The Collective 
Memory, relevant cultural landmarks, signs and symbols from previous times, 
upheld as coordinates of identity by different groups in society, inform and 
manipulate how we begin to remember events that have just taken place. Paul 
Connerton, author of How Societies Remember (1989), explains: 


We experience our present world in a context which is causally connected with past 
events and objects, and hence with reference to events and objects which we are not 
experiencing when we are experiencing the present. And we will experience our 
present differently in accordance with the difficulty of extracting our past from our 
present: not simply because present factors tend to influence — some might want to 
say distort — our recollections of the past, but also because past factors tend to 
influence, or distort, our experience of the present. This process, it should be 
stressed, reaches into the most minute and everyday details of our lives. 


(2) 


Furthermore, what seems so important in the process of borrowing from 
one epoch and applying it to another centers on shared similarities between the 
two eras. As Krzysztof Pomian comments: “when the time is right, and era of 
the past may serve as a screen on which new generations can project their 
contradictions, controversies, and conflicts in objectified form” (qtd. in Rousso 
9). Since the two periods share in the experience of torture, the earlier archetype 
helps interpret the latter one, mythically linking it to itself. How torture is 
perceived in the present is recast in light of the past. 

The type of death the biographies present may seem debasing and not at all 
glorious: typically, captors completely subjugate the partisan who cannot fight 
back. But, when inserted into a Christian cultural interpretation, this form of 
death is the most triumphant and highest esteemed. In this context, to conquer 
death and ultimate defeat, one need only die. 

Terms such as “accettare il suo Calvario,” “subire una passione,” and 
“caricare la croce della redenzione” consistently accompany descriptions of torture 
and execution. In one biography, Carlo Caretto describes how a German soldier 
shot Don Mario Ghibaudo point-blank after hitting him in the head with the butt 
of his rifle. Caretto recreates the scene, portraying Ghibaudo as a sacrificial 
lamb: 


Il rosso sangue sgorga, a fiotti, ancora, dalle labbra ceree, semiaperte, di Don Mario. 
‘Quasi agnus coram tondente se obmutescet et non aperiet os suum...’ : come 
agnello, davanti a chi lo tosa, tacera, e non aprira la sua bocca. . . Ora pit che mai, 
Don Mario é perfettamente immedesimato col sognato ideale: Cristo-Vittima. 

(149) 


A friend who witnessed the incident helps Caretto reconstruct what Don 
Mario’s appearance looked like in death: “Appena un filo di sangue, uscito dalla 
ferita, gli aveva circondato il volto, come una corona . . . e dalle sue labbra 
ormai smorte, un grido sembrava uscire . . . un grido angosciato, ma sincero: 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 245 


Iddio ti perdoni, come io ti perdono" (149). 

The memory of Don Mario pardoning his executioner does more than recall 
Christ’s words on the Cross: “Father, forgive them for they know not what they 
are doing” (Luke 23: 34). His blood, says Caretto, still talks to us as a living 
force to which we should pay homage: “Inginocchiamoci, raccogliamo pur noi, 
questo sangue: ci parla tanto eloquentemente!” (153). 

It might seem quite natural that Ghibaudo be depicted as a Christ figure 
because he was a priest. But lay people too are depicted in the same way with 
many of the same conventions: narratives of torture episodes portrayed as 
Passions, during which often the victim forgives his torturer. This evidence 
reveals how deeply rooted and pervasive the blueprint of martyrdom was during 
the Resistance in interpreting death. Such is the case with Alfredo Braghiroli, 
whose biographer states that when this sixty-year old man was executed two days 
after having been randomly taken hostage, he fell “pronunciando nobilissime 
parole di ammonimento e di perdono per coloro stessi che, calpestata la loro 
propria umanita, spegnevano brutalmente una vita intemerata, spargendo sacro 
sangue fraterno” (Re 8). 

As the Lettere di condannati a morte della Resistenza italiana detail, we find 
that those who die often harbor no malevolence toward their tormentors, and in 
calmly accepting their fate without nurturing hate for their enemies, they imitate 
Christ and the martyrs. Carlo Giachetti, for example, recounts how Duccio 
Marchisio, S.J. accepted his death: 


Ma Duccio era abbastanza sereno e preparato per comprendere che grazia assai pil 
preziosa della liberazione stessa poteva essere la forza di sopportare cristianamente 
altre dure prove, per poter aggiungere, con la sofferenza che passa, nuove e piu 
fulgenti gemme di gaudio e di gloria alla corona incorruttibile della sua eternita. 
Sapeva che consimile risultato delle loro preghiere avevano sperimentato spesso i 
Santi e i Martiri e si meraviglid forse, nella sua modestia, d’essere stato anch’egli 
prescelto a espirare nello strazio della sua carne e del suo spirito l’orgia d’odio e di 
sangue che contaminava la terra. 

(67) 


Where malice reigned in a war so terrible, Marchisio’s serenity in accepting his 
end put him on a higher moral plane than those who hated. He, like Christ, had 
to suffer in order to forgive: “Per questo era necessario che tanto soffrisse. Per 
poter tanto perdonare” (Giachetti 73). 

In many instances, biographers craft rhetorical links to Christ’s passion in 
quite subtle and almost unperceivable ways. For example, Ivo Carossini 


describes how Gianotto Bado was captured by the Nazifascists and condemned to 
death: 


Condotto innanzi alla commissione inquisitrice venne sottoposto ad un’esasperante 
interrogatorio e seviziato. Non un motto, non una parola imprudente scese dal suo 
labbro, né allora né poi. Dal sinedrio fu trascinato alle carceri, grondava sangue ed era 
tutto livido. ... 

(17) 


246 Alan Perry 


Observe the use of “sinedrio” to describe the Fascist commission which judged 
Bado. The term is not a typical synonym for commission or jury, and its use can 
only establish a parallel to the life of Jesus who was brought to be judged and 
condemned before the Jewish Sanhedrin. 

Igino Conego also subtly forges a partisan into a Christ-figure in 
reconstructing of how the Germans beat Mario Pasi. The Germans, says 
Conego, hit Pasi so violently that blood spurted from his wounds (“il sangue 
zampillava’”). They kept inducing him to talk, but Pasi held fast. He remained 
implacable, even as the Germans continued to thrust a hot steel rod into the back 
of his knee. Conego then says that Pasi told him that 


gli usciva il sangue perfino dalla bocca e l’aveva coagulato in fondo alla gola, e non 
poteva respirare. Chiese da bere e gli venne dato un bicchiere d’aceto. Intanto col 
ferro laceravano le sue carni ed egli dal dolore svenne. 

(E. Pasi 7) 


Conego admits that he did not actually witness Pasi’s torture but relates what 
Pasi had toid him before he was executed. As in other cases, whether or not the 
action recounted actually took place in this precise way is not as important as 
the depiction the author creates, for it could not be more Christ-like. Pasi was 
being crucified alive by means of a grisly, hideous torture. He was thirsty and 
asked to drink; and just as the Romans, who thrust Christ a vinegar soaked 
sponge when He was on the cross and said He was thirsty (Mt. 27: 48), so the 
Germans did the same for Pasi. Conego fashions a Passion story out of Pasi’s 
torture. 

It seems appropriate to ask whether the construction of the Christ-figure in 
the biographies is explicitly intended or happened by default, since the 
biographers knew of no other way to write about this form of death. Most 
likely, when the biographers and compilers began to write, they did not ask to 
themselves, “How can I best cast my friend or son as a Christ-figure to honor 
and perpetuate the memory of the Resistance?” The manner in which they related 
the death of their subject came about spontaneously: they made use of Christ’s 
passion, with which they were familiar, and they applied it to the person they 
saw as having heroically died as a victim. 

When biographers reconstruct the life of a partisan who died while firing a 
weapon during an ambush, they may cloak his or her death with religious 
overtones and indicate how the fallen offered the supreme sacrifice for the cause. 
But the rhetoric of Christological victimization inspired by the Passion story is 
absent. In fact, the heroic subject of almost every single full-length biography 
experienced the death of a victim and was executed after having been captured and 
tortured. Keeping this fact in mind, we can see how natural it was for Giuseppe 


'? Pasi was also honored in a poem written by Mario Tobino, later included in 
Antologia poetica della resistenza italiana, ed. Elio Filippo Accrocca and Valerio 
Volpini: “Il Pasi era un giovanotto / veniva dalla Romagna, / insieme eravamo 
giovani, / si camminava muovendo le spalle, / le donne avean per noi debolezza. / Lui 
lo impiccarono i tedeschi / dopo sevizie che non ho piacere si sappiano, / io ho un 
cappotto di anni, / ma, o Pasi, sei stato / il pid bell’italiano di mezzo secolo” (94). 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 247 


Nestini to describe Piero Borrotzu’s death, which took place after imprisonment 
and torture, in terms of a Passion: : “I giorni della passione di Cristo preludono 
alla passione di Piero” (Nestini 85). 


IV. Heroic Silence 

One of the most important elements which biographers stress is the fact that 
their subject did not reveal any information or names under duress. Inhuman 
flogging might have opened excruciating wounds, and jolts of electricity racked 
the body, but never did the partisan renege on his or her faith in the cause. As 
Renata Vigano writes about Bruna and Matilde Zerbi: 


Le presero i nazisti per farle parlare, volevano sapere dei partigiani, forse qualcuno 
aveva fatto la spia a danno delle due ragazze. Ma le due ragazze tacevano sotto i colpi . 
. . anche se quelli promettevano la vita in cambio di una parola, quella parola non fu 
detta. 

(Vigand, Le donne della resistenza 61) 


The same restraint was demonstrated by Irma Bandiera: “Gridava quando il dolore 
era piu: grande della sua forza, pero non diceva niente” (17). 

Likewise, a contributor to Giorgio Labo’s biography states that although 
his torture was “tutto un lungo martirio,” Labo “rimase fermo, silenzioso, forza 
dello spirito contro forza della materia, imbattibile, sino a raggiungere la serenita 
cui aspirava di fronte alla morte (Un sabotatore 5). The Germans bound Labd’s 
hands behind his back so tightly that the rope cut circulation to his wrists: “Le 
mani sono diventate livide ed enormi per il gonfiore; il difetto di circolazione ha 
provocato persino sul suo volto gonfiarsi e rose di sangue. . . . Ad ogni 
domanda, ad ogni tortura, rispondeva sempre: ‘Non lo so e non lo dico’ (Un 
sabotatore 30-31).' 

The central message embodied in the refusal to reveal names focuses on the 
fact that betrayal of the Resistance cause did not take place, and thus apostasy did 
not occur. Like Jesus, who enigmatically remained silent before Pontius Pilate, 
out of virtuous silence a heroic martyr emerges. 

The parallel between this evidence and many accounts of the lives of martyrs 
and saints is remarkable. As an element of their juridical process and torture, 
Roman officials pressed Christians into revealing the names of their 
companions, the secrets of their faith, or into publicly renouncing their faith in 
Christ, by stating instead that they believed in the Roman gods. Exactly because 
they stood steadfast in their faith and did not do such things, they were fed to 
animals, burned at the stake or forced into combat with gladiators. In death they 


'S Aan anonymous poem written during the war captures the premium placed upon the 
value of keeping silent: “Ringrazio Dio di avermi dato la forza per non parlare/ Parla, 
parla! Ma la mia bocca di marmo,/ Di marmo il cielo, il sole nella mia bocca,/ Nuca 
contro la pietra, sangue nella mia gola di marmo./ Se avessi parlato non mi avrebbero 
capito./ Abbiamo sempre fatto i conti con la morte,/ Questa vita ci esaltava e valeva 
la pene di viverla/ Non fummo spettatori, ma attori di un grande dramma./ Demmo il 
meglio di noi stessi per un mondo rinnovato./ Uomini vi amavano. Vegliate!” (Gloria 
Eterna 8). 


248 Alan Perry 


thus became saints. The Church, of course, never claimed as heroes those who 
renounced their faith or disclosed names. In similar fashion, although historical 
evidence may never be able to document to what extent it occurred, some 
partisans most likely did reveal names under horrific pain. In memory, however, 
these episodes are overlooked, for a hero could never have done such a thing. 


V. Spilled Blood: The Dead Remain with the Living 
Adding to the moral victory perceived in refusing to talk was the sense that, like 
the Christians who sowed their blood for the continual construction and 
preservation of the Church, fallen partisans would protect the living still 
fighting in the Resistance and form an invincible army. As we discussed 
earlier, in the first part of the twentieth century, Italian nationalism helped instill 
the notion that the dead would inspire and collaborate with the living for the 
glory of the State. Later Fascism took this ideal to extremes. Now we find the 
same idea in the partisans’ dying for the Resistance: the more partisans killed by 
the Germans, the stronger becomes the cause. 

Massenzio Masia, for instance, a partisan collaborator who published a 
clandestine newspaper, wrote the following passage in 1944: 


Oggi non c’é che un modo di servire il paese: partecipare alla lotta di liberazione 
nazionale. Per tutti gli italiani ancor degni di questo nome, unico criterio di moralita e 
ragione di vita dev’essere questa lotta affinché il sacrificio liberamente accettato ci 
riscatti da vent’anni di abbiezione e dall’ultima ignomia. E col sacrificio e col sangue 
dei suoi figli migliori che |’Italia sara risollevata dalla vergogna presente. 

(qtd in Massenzio Masia 53) 


In several other biographies, we find this same theme. Rino Mandoli, for 
example, wrote shortly before his death: “Ricordate che 1’Italia sara tanto pid 
grande quanto pil sangue il suo popolo versera serenamente” (Ceva, Cinque anni 
31); and Mimma Arnaldi spoke to others of her son Rinaldo (his partisan name 
was Loris): “Non vive forse eterno, Loris, nei nostri occhi, nella nostra voce, 
nell’anima nostra, bello, pallido, sereno, ammantato del tricolore, come lo 
vedemmo Il’ultima sera? . . . i nostri occhi non sapevano che piangere, e, lo 
Spirito suo, era gia in alto oltre le stelle” (Arnaldi 72-73). 

One of the more common ways biographers rhetorically communicate 
how the fallen continue to live after death is through the apostrophe. Often 
during the closing remarks, they will directly address the dead, telling them that 
they know they still live, and asking them to intercede for those left behind. 
Carlo Giachetti, for instance, stresses that Duccio Galimberti’s spirit walks 
eternally among the Alps: 


Battistini explains how this sense of Christian martyrdom which Tertullian 
communicated in his Apologeticum — “Plures efficimur, quotiens metimur a vobis: 
semen est sanguis Christianorum” (“ogni volta che voi ci falciate diventiamo di pit: é 
seme il sangue dei Cristiani”) — is central to understanding Agnese’s motivation to 
continue fighting for the Resistance (41). He then indicates that these words were 
often quoted in clandestine publications, reflecting a popular sentiment of the 
Resistance (41). 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 249 


Tu sei vivo e loro — gli uccisori che t’hanno ghermito — sono i morti, morti che 
odiano rabbiosamente la tua grande luminosa bellezza, la bellezza della tua idea di 
bene e di patria, servita con purita di fede; la quale @ vita, vita che dura eterna. Vivo, 
pit vivo di loro, ti sei attestato e 14 rimani, sulle grandi alpi fisso lo sguardo, con 
l’arma al piede, frammezzo agli uomini dei battaglioni di Giustizia e Liberta, che tu 
guidi tuttora e reggi spiritualmente indomito. 

(20) 


Being thus associated with the mountains which his fellow citizens see on the 
horizon, Galimberti is always among the living (21). 

Vittoriano Torretta also writes that his nephew Nino will be forever present 
with his former companions and family: 


No, Nino, no, non sei morto! Tu sei sempre in mezzo a noi, ti vediamo, ti sentiamo 
continuamente, sei in mezzo a noi, come sei sempre in mezzo ai tuoi compagni di 
fede, di ardimento, di lotta, che sentono ancora la tua voce calda ed appassionata di 
italiano e di patriota.... 

(Nino Torretta, 1947: 37) 


The strain of sadness these examples convey indicates that many times 
biographers used their works as catharses. Through writing, they could express 
their sorrow in tangible form and later return to it in order to find solace. More 
than their cathartic scope directed as a means of private grief, however, these 
biographies allowed those who mourned a forum to share their grief 
communally. 

These works have to be viewed in their extended cultural milieu, for in an 
Italy where announcements of death were affixed on kiosks, where female family 
members wore black in public to mourn the dead, and where Masses were said on 
the anniversary of a loved one’s death, they too reflect the cult of the dead. In 
putting together their shared memories, family members and friends extended 
their private grief, and they could more fully mourn the death of their loved one. 
The wider community could share in the sorrow and offer solace more freely. 

By expressing their pain through the tangible material object of a 
biography, the living could ensure that the dead remained among them. 
Makolkin stresses: 


A name remembered is a comfort to a human being who has to face one’s own and 
everyone’s inevitable mortality. The glorified and remembered names of dead heroes 
represent a possible happy end. Remembering the names of heroes after their deaths 
recreates the scene of living after death in the most desirable fashion. A name 
remembered is a monument to the deceased, and expresses the secret human desire not 
to be forgotten and a universal dream of immortality. 

(14) 


'S See Anderson. Incidentally, the authors of these biographies thus perform the same 
function as does Homer in Foscolo’s Dei Sepolchri: “. .. Un di vedrete / Mendico un 
cieco errar sotto le vostre / Antichissime ombre, e brancolando / Penetrar negli 
avelli, e abbracciar l’urne, / E interrogarle. Gemeranno gli antri / Secreti, e tutta 


250 Alan Perry 


Perhaps even more importantly, when Italians wrote these biographies, they 
themselves could feel more confident that they had better secured the protection 
of the dead. As historian Krinka Vidakovic’ Petrov in Memory: History, Culture 
and the Mind (1989) states: 


The cult of the dead implies the coexistence of two worlds: the world of the living and 
that of the dead. In terms of time this means that the past — associated with one’s 
ancestors — is simultaneous with the present. The ancestors are, therefore, integrated 
into the present life of the community. Whenever the individual or the community is 
threatened, the living can evoke their dead ancestors and secure their protection. In 
order to do this there must be a way of communicating with the dead and reminding 
them of the living. What is expected of the ancestors is to remember their 
descendants, to preserve them in their memory. 

(87) 


Furthermore, as Makolkin theorizes, by constructing a hero who walked in their 
midst, especially one whose life they personally formed or touched, biographers 
can lay collateral claim to the fallen’s greatness: 


The death of the hero celebrates the beginning of something new: the legendary 
presence of the name-symbol after his actual death. This moment is also a significant 
period in the life of any biographer who builds the monument to himself in the 
process of erecting the monument to the hero. It is through the name of the “Other” 
that a biographer (or any writer for that matter) immortalizes himself. 

(19) 


Interpreted in this light, the biographies can be seen as having a dual function. 
They preserve the memory of the dead among the living and at the same time 
allow the authors and contributors a chance to ask the dead to safeguard them 
from heaven. 


VI. Other Heroic Models 

The collective memory of saints is not the only social force that shaped 
interpretation of death. In assigning meaning to the Resistance many Italians 
drew on the lore of the Risorgimento, believing that the Risorgimento had 
finally found a unique completion in the Resistance. After the war, innumerable 
articles were written on the similarities between the two historical epochs, and 
seen along a continuum as members of the communion of saints, martyrs of the 


” 


narrera la tomba.. .” (vv. 279-84). Foscolo communicates how graves speak to 
future generations by sustaining the memory of the dead among the living. Past 
generations of heroes thus remain among the present and future generations: “Non 
vive ei forse anche sotterra, quando / Gli sara muta |’armonia del giorno, / Se pud 
destarla con soavi cure / Nella mente de’ suoi? Celeste @ questa / Corrispondenza 
d’amorosi sensi, / Celeste dote @ negli umani; e spesso / Per lei si vive con l’amico 
estinto, /E l’estinto con noi. . .” (vv. 26-33). But for Foscolo too, while the tomb 
honors the dead, it ultimately serves the living who, like Homer, will perpetuate the 
memory of the deceased from generation to generation. 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 251 


Resistance were linked to the martyrs of the Risorgimento. ° Ettore Miraglia, 
for example, states: “Ed i martiri della causa dalla liberazione della Patria dal 
nazifascismo si riallacciano ai martiri del risorgimento italiano che per |’ unita e 
l’indipendenza dell’ Italia combatterono” (32). At times a nationalistic voice does 
find strong expression in the biographies, but it is usually overshadowed by 
hagiographic rhetoric. 

In even fewer biographies written especially about fallen Communist 
partisans, authors explain death in terms of proletarian solidarity. Note, for 
instance, what Renzo Baccino says about his biographical subject: 


Pilly Bottaro ed i suoi fratelli in martirio, lanciarono la loro suprema sfida alla morte, 
col nome d'Italia sulle labbra. Essi credevano in un avvenire migliore, e per 
attingerlo, incontrarono |’estremo sacrificio. Morendo, ci additarono una meta sulla 
quale splendono gli ideali di liberta, fraternita, uguaglianza, giustizia sociale. 

(77) 


In addition, Antonello Trombadori says that Giorgio Labo “era un intellettuale 
che, venuto a contatto con le idee progressive del marxismo, si era posto 
chiaramente e senza equivoci il problema del partito. E lo voleva risolvere. E lo 
ha risolto, senza inutili e retorici schermi, nell’azione” (Un sabotatore 28); and 
finally, Renata Vigan stresses that women martyrs such as Irene Callegari died 
“per il popolo, per l’idea del Partito” (Donne 30). 

In several biographies, therefore, the hero who emerges is a champion of the 
exploited worker, and proletarian strains to some extent outbid the strong tones 
of Christian martyrdom. As a complex whole, however, the primary heoric 
model in the biographies is hagiographic. 


VII. Considerations of the genre 

In many of the biographies, stories of other comrades who were killed 
complement and enrich the meaning of the biographee’s death: authors put the 
contributions the fallen gave in a wider group context to help readers understand 
how the biographee participated with countless others in the Resistance cause. 
The collective action of the group, however, always finds its symbolic 
representative voice focused on the death of the biographee who, because he or 
she fought alongside comrades, becomes a representative of the wider group for 
future generations. st 


'© From the very beginning of the Resistance, as clandestine publications indicate, 
partisans and their supporters began to conceptualize their struggle as the “Secondo 
Risorgimento.” After the war, political rhetoric abounded with examples of parallels 
between the two struggles. Articles in Civitas 4 (1955) and books such as I] Secondo 
Risorgimento, Garosci, Curiel’s Classi e generazioni nel secondo risorgimento, and 
Battaglia’s Risorgimento e Resistenza investigate the historical links between the 
Resistance and the Risorgimento. 

In his perceptive article, “Eulogy as Symbolic Biography: The Iconography of 
Revolutionary Leadership, 1776-1826,” Gilmore notes how eulogy is the oldest 
form of biography. But unlike modern day biography, precise and concrete 
information about the person’s life in eulogy is often absent because its main thrust 


252 Alan Perry 


Heroes as partisan-martyrs in these biographies, while depicted as unique 
Christ-figures, do not remain aloof from the public and inimitable. They are not 
untouchable gods. Rather, biographers shape their heroes as ordinary citizens 
who, in rising to meet their destiny in the Resistance, became extraordinary 
Italians. Makolkin mentions: “Being a popular gene, a part of mass culture, 
heroic biography is a conservative form. It appeals to the largest part of the 
community through its most common and sharable sign-hero, who is 
simultaneously ‘above the group,’ . . . and is equal to each and every member, as 
the biographer intends” (18). 

Sometimes biographers can only present an unreliable reconstruction of 
death, at best using only reconstructions of eyewitness accounts and hearsay, 
which are at times conflicting. We touched upon this notion when analyzing 
how Igino Conego recounts Mario Pasi’s torture. At least in one instance, 
however, we know that a biographer, Giovanni Pesce, intentionally falsified the 
facts surrounding the death of Dante Di Nanni in casting him as a hero. 

According to Ersilia Alessandrone Perona and Luciano Boccalatte of the 
Istituto Storico della Resistenza in Piemonte, Dante Di Nanni did not die 
according to the events represented in his biography. Nicola Aducci, a university 
student, was recently able to piece together documents and information on 
Nanni’s death, which clearly refute the story presented by Pesce: Nanni was shot 
while trying to escape from the Germans — he did not hurl grenades from a 
balcony and shout “Viva I’Italia!” when bullets riddled his body, as Pesce 
reconstructs. Perona surmises that perhaps because Pesce had been Nanni’s 
partisan commander, he felt in some way responsible for his death, and thus he 
embellished and heroicized the events in order to exculpate a personal sense of 


is pedagogical (131). He states: ‘The deceased appears less as an individualized 
figure than as an emblem or symbol contrived for the purpose of instructing an 
audience. Although the lives described turn out to be much the same, they 
nevertheless have value as a revelation of character. By treating the dead as a kind of 
cultural ideal, the eulogist seeks in effect to compose the collective biography of an 
entire people. Thus, the true subject of the eulogy is the speaker and his community 
rather than the character and career of the person nominally portrayed (131). In his 
article, Gilmore specifically addresses eulogies delivered for American Revolutionary 
War heroes. His comments concerning how this genre provides “valuable insights 
into the ideological and emotional issues that engaged successive generations of 
their countrymen” (131) has direct parallels to the Italian context. 

In “Theory of Modes,” Anatomy of Criticism, Frye writes that in literary fiction a 
hero may be classified according to his power which is either greater than, less than 
or roughly equal to our own. If we use Frye’s classification, a fallen partisan in a 
commemorative biography is most closely associated with the hero who is “superior 
in degree to other men and to his environment. . . but who is himself identified as 
being a human being” (33). 

Boccalatte, personal interview. This case has provoked acute interest among 
Resistance historians. Pesce, who is still living, refuses to retract his story even in 
the face of overwhelming evidence against his version. The Istituto Storico della 
Resistenza in Piemonte hopes to publish articles by Pesce and the student so that 
scholars and the general public may better understand the debate and its 
repercussions. 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 253 


guilt.” 

The truth about particular aspects of torture and death in these eulogies may 
never be known. But in the end, as we have come to gather, it does not matter. 
What matters is simply the lore of partisan death itself and its hold on the Italian 
psyche. Just as the living faithful do not seem to mind that the facts in the Lives 
of Saints may be inaccurate, contrived or manipulated, those who read these 
biographies overlook concerns of accuracy and focus instead upon the heroic 
example set by the partisan in death. The significance of death itself is of the 
utmost importance: to an Italian audience steeped in the martyr model, heroes 
who survived the war do not grip the collective imagination as do those who 
died. 

The biographies are both historical in as much as they cover events that 
really happened, and they are artistic or literary — works which mold together 
certain information to project a reconstructed image of someone who once lived 
(Kaplan 2-3). The breakdown of these categories, also characterizes neorealist 
novels and films, and thus, in their own particular way, biographies are linked to 
the neorealist “season” in Italian literature so prevalent in the years immediately 
following the war. 

Across the board, regardless of the geographical region where they were 
published, regardless of the economic status of the compilers and regardless of 
the political affiliation of the fallen partisan, the biographies read remarkably the 
same. People seem to have had a similar and innate formulaic understanding of 
how to honor the dead in biographical writing. The genre of hagiography 
influenced this awareness to some extent, through both oral and written 
traditions, as did a civic tradition of didactic biography born out of the 
Risorgimento. 

The biographers shaped the lives of those who had been killed as figures of 
Christ and martyrs so that their image could resonate with readers in the general 
public. They molded and embellished their subjects so that others might relate to 


oe Perona, personal interview, 18 June 1997. 


Rodari states that Beltrami’s // Capitano falls between history and literary fiction 
(Introduction 8). His comments are applicable to the entire genre of commemorative 
biography: “Non é un libro di storia, benché in ogni riga fedele alla verita storica, 
resoconto di fatti realmente accaduti a persone realmente vissute 0 ancora viventi. 
Non é@ un romanzo, benché siano il sentimento, la memoria e la fantasia della 
narratrice a ricostruire amorosamente i fatti nei loro particolari. E, insieme, un 
documento storico ed un documento letterario, eppure non sopporta queste categorie, 
per quanto illustri (la storia, la letteratura), come non sopporta le divisioni e 
distinzioni tra cid che vi @ in esso di pubblico (la figura del capitano Beltrami, le sue 
imprese di partigiano, la sua morte in combattimento) e cid che vi @ di privato (il 
sentimento per lui della moglie, della donna che parla di lui e di se stessa come se 

arlasse di un’unica persona)” (8). 

Lanaro and Porciani analyze the development of biographical models encouraged 
by the fledgling Italian government to propose ideal values of citizenship to the 
populace. Newspapers especially had an important role both before and after World 
War I and during Fascism. 


254 Alan Perry 


them according to their own idea of what was heroic.” This artistic license 
strengthens the claim that biography is worthy of study as a literary object. 

As James Clifford states, biography as a genre “is probably less often true 
to the way life is than to the way we might like it to be” (45). Its success comes 
through its ability to make us believe in the true existence of the self it portrays, 
and this success “may be partially explained by positing the existence of an 
underlying mythic pattern in our culture, a myth that finds an important mode of 
expression in the biographical genre”(44). Christian myth no doubt infuses these 
stories of fallen partisans. 

Historically, biography has not received extensive critical attention in Italy 
as much as has autobiography (Vigezzi 33). Perhaps, unlike in the United 
States and England, the strong influence of hagiography has always held the 
development of biography at bay. Sergio Romano noted in 1981 that even 
after World War II, highly encomiastic and commemorative biographies thwarted 
any impetus toward more rigorous biography: 


Dall’unita alla seconda guerra mondiale abbiamo trascurato le grandi personalita 
ambigue e contraddittorie di cui la storia italiana @ pit ricca, limitandoci a 
rappresentare soltanto coloro che si prestavano ad essere trattati come modelli 
d’ispirazione civile. E abbiamo scritto opere che per essere destinate a conseguire un 
certo obiettivo pedagogico nel momento in cui furono immaginate, sono oggi 
irrimediabilmente invecchiate. Non hanno un valore educativo perché il modello non 
corrisponde alle nostre esigenze di oggi: non hanno un valore estetico perché furono 
scritte con tutt’altra intenzione: non hanno un valore storico perché non ci aiutano a 


= We must not overlook an ironic aspect of this entire appropriation process. The 
Christian martyrs themselves would not have willingly given the partisans, or for 
that matter the Fascists before them, license to use their copyright on martyrdom. So 
generously did the martyrs accept their deaths, so powerful was their faithful example, 
that the Church cherished them over the centuries as its greatest heroes. Over time, 
their memory became fluid enough for secular hands to adopt it in attempts to 
consecrate Italy or the Party. The Christian martyrs, however, were not patriots. Nor 
were they guerrillas or soldiers. They were not organized in military units or under 
military discipline, because they feared military life as an inveterate corrupter of the 
spirit. Christian martyrs were counter-cultural pacifists: they did not resort to force or 
bloodshed. They did not volunteer to die, but when they were apprehended they were 
obliged to accept death rather than apostasy. Indeed, they died as heroic victims, but 
they did not resist except by their faithful witness. In reality, to die for Christ and the 
Church is never the same thing as to die for Italy or the Party. The lore of Christian 
martyrs was thus secularized in making sacred the memory of secular heroes. 

Even in the United States, at least until the 1980s, critical interest in 
autobiography outweighed the study of biography. Mendelson writes: “A glance at 
recent MLA and similar bibliographies shows that critical studies of autobiography 
far outnumber studies of biography written by others. What the numbers suggest is 
confirmed by the studies themselves: far more theoretical energy is being expended 
on the problem of self-presentation than of the problem of presenting another self. 
So literary biography has been left to make do with a more or less undefined and 
unconscious theory—one too confused to withstand much scrutiny—based loosely on 
the analogy between the internal workings of interpreted self and the internal 
workings of an interpreted person” (21). 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 255 


comprendere la storia del protagonista e servono tutt’al pil) a comprendere 
indirettamente quella dei loro autori e del loro tempo. 
(17-18) 


Romano is here clearly referring to works such as commemorative biographies 
on partisans even though he does not identify the genre by name. He considers 
these memorials as having little historical worth because they remove “l’uomo 
dalla storia e proponendolo come modello astratto lo proietta su uno schermo 
ideale dove egli é forma da realizzare piuttosto che forma concretamente realizzata 
(Romano 17). 

Romano, however, indicates an aspect of these biographies which does 
have tremendous didactic importance for future generations. Eulogy projects the 
subject as “una chiave per leggere la storia del suo tempo, come |’unico luogo 
storico in cui si diano convegno, al di 1a d’ogni schematismo storiografico, tutte 
le forze — economiche e morali — che concorrono a fare la storia” (17). ~ They 
provide for us and future generations cultural carriers of memory (Rousso 220), 
an ideal forum for exploring the ideological fabric of the Italian people during the 
first half of the twentieth century. The totality of these neo-hagiographies are 
precisely one expression of those cultural monuments which biography theorist 
James Stanfield said “produces in the inhabitants that resemblance of ideas and 


sentiments to which we give the name of spirit and character of a nation” 
(283). 


VIII. Conclusion 
In La Resistenza Armata nella narrativa italiana, Giovanni Falaschi mentions 
that the biography “dei partigiani morti nel complesso non si sottrae alla 
retorica” (51). It surprises him to note how, in spite of the highly emotional 
spirit of the time after the war, a few biographies were able to furnish “dignita 
letteraria alle memorie senza scadere nella retorica” and to maintain “una notevole 
lucidita” (51). Falaschi thus implies that the rhetoric of most biographies 
detracts from the quality of the document. 

His words may offer a further key in understanding why biographies have 


?5 Aaron also writes in his introduction to Studies in Biography (Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, 1978, v-viii): “Not only is it [biography] a useful source of 
knowledge about individual lives; it also widens the unquantifiable dimensions to 
human nature and remains one of the most inexhaustible, inclusive, and accessible of 
literary forms” (viii). 

Makolkin states: “heroic biography is a popular genre which not only worships 
heroes, but popularizes dominant beliefs generated in society. Heroes are praised in 
the light of prevalent societal views; or heroic discourse ‘passes through the mass 
censorship of the community’, and produces popular beliefs and popular myths” (17). 

Falaschi specifically praises Gino Pieri’s Storie di partigiani, stating that it was 
compiled with good and reliable documented sources. Among its pages ‘‘sono storie 
edificanti (e gia in questo si capisce come la verita prevalga sulla retorica) scritte in 
una prosa cronachistica grigia che regge bene al passare del tempo, e nella quale il 
racconto di singoli episodi é ben saldato con considerazioni generali, tanto che é 
difficile estrarre un brano senza perdere il senso generale di un capitolo” (La 
resistenza armata 51). 





256 Alan Perry 


not received more critical attention. The plot, the language, the rhythm and the 
narrative force of these biographies — aspects so central to literary study — are 
completely overshadowed by the representation and interpretation through 
memory of what happened in an actual life. Perhaps the strong preponderance of 
sacrificial rhetoric in commemorative works, so repetitive and predictable, so 
imbued with religious fervor, has disenchanted scholars, and they have thus 
characterized them as amateurish, somehow not deserving of in-depth scrutiny. 

Another factor may have also contributed in part to the lack of focus on 
biographies. Conceivably critics may have shied away from biographies because 
they have viewed them as too sacred in the way they project a certain image of 
the dead. Since the biographies contain such personally sentimental 
remembrances of the dead, shrouded with understandably elegiac overtones, critics 
may not have wanted to intrude upon the realm of private memory. Perhaps they 
have never really considered how a comprehensive study of the genre could 
contribute to a deeper cultural understanding of their countrymen. 

To understand how commemorative biographies comprise an integral corpus 
of Resistance literature, we must broaden our understanding of what comprises 
literature that is worthy of sound, critical attention. Although these eulogies 
may be overly rich in religious rhetoric and written by amateur writers who had 
limited formal training, they deserve to be studied to deepen our appreciation of 
more well-known Resistance novels (i.e., Uomini e no, La casa in collina, II 
sentiero dei nidi di ragno, and Il partigiano Johnny). In particularly, their 
sacrificial spirit and Christological allusions offer a unique key to interpret 
Renata Vigan0’s L’Agnese va a morire and Rossellini’s film Roma citta aperta. 
Apart from their critical potential, however, commemorative biographies are 
unmistakably important, for they reveal the abiding power the martyrdom model 
had upon the Italian collective memory in explaining death in World War II. 

The passage of time has no doubt reduced the didactic capacity of these 
biographies. In the half-century since they were written, Italy has undergone 
tremendous social, cultural and political changes and the secularization of many 
elements of society has blunted religious sensitivities (Mignone 189-203; 
Acquaviva 100-08). Since the significance of martyrdom does not speak to 
younger generations the way it did to those that lived through the war, the 
memory of partisans cast as martyrs in these memorials has lost its strength. 
Sull, for those who wish to return in time to comprehend how Italians made 
sense of death in World War II, the biographies are an excellent key which open 
a window to the ethos of that age. Only now, because of the passage of time 
and long after the war, can we fully appreciate the treasures they offer. 


Middlebury College 


8 Darri began to publish biographical profiles in his journal MLI because of their 
representative power: “Poi, un poco per volta, le esigenze della storia viva, il pulsare 
mai eliminabile delle anime sotto i fatti, hanno attenuato la nostra intransigenza 
iniziale, nei riguardi soprattutto di quelle figure esemplari che potessero servire, per 
lo storico di domani, a caratterizzare situazioni ed ambienti” (MLI 11, 1951: 28). 


Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 257 


Works Cited 


Primary Sources: 

Acquaviva, S. S. and M. Santuccio. Social Structures in Italy: Crisis of a System. 
Trans. Colin Homer. London: Martin Robertson, 1976). 

Andreoni, C. A Renzo Ildebrando Bocchi nel primo anniversario del suo sacrificio. 
Parma: Vita Nuova, 1945. 

Angeli, Roberto ... . poi l’Italia é risorta. Pinerolo: Alzani, 1953. 

ANPI. Bologana partigiana. Bologna: Tip. An. Grafiche, 1951. 

Amaldi, Mimma. Rinaldo Arnaldi e la via della gloria. Vicenza: S. Gaetano, 1947. 

Baccino, Renzo. Giuseppe Bottaro, martire della risorta “Giovane Europa.” Genova: 
Ami, 1947. 

Barontini, Ilio. “Le donne della Resistenza.” Donne della Resistenza. Vigano 9-11. 

Beltrami, Giuliana Gadola. /] Capitano. 1994 ed. Roma: Sapere 2000, 1994. 

Calamandrei, Pietro. {Introduction.” Cervi 5-10. 

Carretto, Carlo. Veste Insanguinata (Don Mario Ghibaudo). Torino: Berruti, 1949. 

Carocci, Giampietro. La resistenza italiana. Milano: Garzanti, 1963. 

Carossini, Ivo. Giannotto Bado: poeta ed eroe. Chiavari: n. p., 1947. 

Cervi, Alcide. J miei sette figli. Roma: Riuniti, 1955. 

Ceva, Bianca. Cinque anni di storia italiana 1940-1945. Milano: Comunita, 1964. 

Chilesotti, Anna. Giacomo Chilesotti. Padova: Zanocco, 1947. 

Comitato Nazionale dell’ ANPI di Ravenna. Gloria Eterna ai caduti per la liberta della 
Resistenza nella provincia di Ravenna. Ravenna: Ravegnana, 1951 

Conego, Igino. Introduction. In Memoria di Mario Pasi. [Ravenna]: n. p., [1946]. 

Giachetti, Carlo., S. J. Duccio Marchisio. Cuneo: Tip. Piemonte, 1945. 

Giunchi, E. Uomini e gesta della banda Corbari-Casadei. Torino: SATET, 1945. 

Gloria eterna ai caduti per la liberta della Resistenza nella Provincia di Ravenna. 
Comitato Provinciale dell’ ANPI di Ravenna. Ravenna: Ravegnana, 1951. 

In memoria di Duccio Galimberti. Roma: Tip. SET Apolloni, 1945. 

Istituto Nazionale per la storia della Resistenza. Massenzio Massia nel ricordo degli 
amici. Milano: n.p., 1961. 

Lazzarini, Lino. Mario Todesco. Testimonianze e ricordi. Padova: Zanocco, 1946. 

Lettere di condannati a morte della Resistenza italiana (8 settembre 1943-25 aprile 
1945). Ed. Piero Malvezzi and Giovanni Pirelli. 3rd. ed. “Gli Struzzi.” Torino: 
Einaudi, 1975. 

Miraglia, Ettore. Vincenzo Lastrina. Genova: n. p., 1945. 

Murari, Arturo. La tuta insanguinata. Marcello Spicola operaio idraulico. Torino: 
LICLICE, 1946. 

Nestini, Giuseppe. Borrotzu P., martire della liberta. Genova: Elios, 1949. 

Nino Torretta, caduto per la liberta. Torino: UTET, 1946. 

Parri, Ferruccio. “Biografia e storia della Resistenza: A proposito di una figura 
rappresentiva.” MLI 11 (1951): 28-29. 

Pasi, Enrico. In memoria di Mario Pasi. n. p.: CUMER, n.d. 

Pesce, Giovanni. Dante di Nanni, garibaldino ventenne. Torino: Sasso, n. d. 

Re, Emilio. In Memoria del Dr. Alfredo Braghiroli dell’Archivio di Stato di Modena, 
caduto il 7 agosto 1944. Bologna: Azzoguidi, 1946. 

Un sabotatore: Giorgio Labo. Preface L. Venturi. Milano: Trombadori, 1946. 

Vigand, Renata. Donne della Resistenza. Bologna: STEB, 1955. 

Zancan, Paolo. Luigi Pierbon. Padova: Zanocco, 1946. 


258 Alan Perry 


Secondary Sources: 

Aaron, Daniel. “Preface.” Studies in Biography. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard UP, 
1978. v-viili. 

Altman, Charles F. “Two Types of Opposition and the Structure of Latin Saints 
Lives.” Medievalia et Humanistica 6 (1975): 1-11. 

Anderson, Jeffery. “The Wish to Be Remembered.” The Psychoanalytic Forum | 
(Summer 1982): 13-21. 

Battaglia, Roberto. Storia della Resistenza italiana. 2nd ed. Torino: Einaudi, 1964. 

. Risorgimento e Resistenza. Roma: Riuniti, 1964. 

Battistini, Andrea. Le parole in guerra: lingua e ideologia dell’ “Agnese va a morire”.. 
Bologna: Bovolenta, 1982. 

Boccalatte, Luciano. Personal interview. 20 June 1997. 

Burke, Peter. “History as Social Memory.” Memory: History, Culture and the Mind. 
Ed. Thomas Butler. Oxford, Eng.: Blackwell, 1989. 97-114. 

Carocci, Giampietro. La resistenza italiana. Milano: Garzanti, 1963. 

Clark, Martin. Modern Italy 1871-1995. 2nd ed. London: Longman, 1996. 

Clifford, James. “‘Hanging up Looking Glasses at Odd Corners.” Studies in 
Biography. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard UP. 41-56. 

Connerton, Paul. How Societies Remember. Cambridge, Eng.: Cambridge UP, 1989. 

Delzell, Charles. Mussolini’s Enemies: The Italian Anti-Fascist Resistance. New 
York: Fertig, 1974. 

Elliott, Alison Goddard. Roads to Paradise: Reading the Lives of the Early Saints. 
Hanover, NH: UP of New England, 1987. 

Falaschi, Giovanni. “Introduzione.” La letteratura partigiana in Italia 1943-1945. Ed. 
Giovanni Falaschi. Roma: Riuniti, 1984. 13-21. 

. La resistenza armata nella narrativa italiana. Torino: Einaudi, 1975. 

Foscolo, Ugo. “Dei Sepolcri.” Le Poesie. Ed. Marcello Turchi. Milano: Garzanti, 
1991. 43-65. 

Frye, Northrop. Anatomy of Criticism. Four Essays. 1957. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1971. 

Gallina, Cesare. J martiri dei primi secoli. Firenze: Salani, 1942. 

Garosci, Aldo, et al. /] secondo Risorgimento: nel decennale della Resistenza e del 
ritorno alla democrazia, 1945-1955. Roma: Istituto Poligrafo dello Stato, 1955. 

Gentile, Emilio. The Sacralization of Politics in Fascist Italy. Trans. Keith Botsford. 
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard UP, 1996. 

Gilmore, Michael T. “Eulogy as Symbolic Biography: The Iconography of 
Revolutionary Leadership, 1776-1826.” Studies in Biography. Ed. Daniel 
Aaron. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard UP, 1978. 131-57. 

Gobbi, Romolo. // mito della Resistenza. Milano: Rizzoli, 1992. 

Guerri, Giordano Bruno. Fascisti. Milano: Mondadori, 1995. 

Halbwachs, Maurice. The Collective Memory. Trans. Francis J. Ditter, Jr., and Vida 
Y. Ditter. New York: Harper Colophon, 1980. 

Isnenghi, Mario. Le Guerre degli Italiani: parole, immagini, ricordi 1848-1945. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1989. 

______. “La guerra civile nella pubblicistica di destra.” Rivista di storia 
contemporanea | (1989): 104-15. 

Kaplan, Justin. “The Real Life.” Studies in Biography. Ed. Daniel Aaron. Cambridge, 
Mass.: Harvard UP, 1978. 1-8. 

Kertzer, David. Ritual, Politics and Power. New Haven and London: Yale UP, 1988. 

Lanaro, Silvio. “Il Plutarco italiano: l’istruzione del ‘popolo’ dopo I’Unita.” Storia 





Fallen Partisans: Hagiographic Imprints in Italian Resistance Biography 259 


d'Italia, Annali 4: Intelletuali e potere. Ed. Corrado Vivanti. Torino: Einaudi, 
1981. 554-87. 

Makolkin, Anna. Name, Hero, Icon: Semiotics of Nationalism Through Heroic 
Biography. Berlin and New York: de Gruyter, 1991. 

Mendelson, Edward. “Authorized Biography and its Discontents.” Studies in 
Biography. Ed. Daniel Aaron. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard UP, 1978. 9-27. 

Mignone, Mario B. Italy Today: A Country in Transition. New York: Lang, 1995. 

Mosse, George L. Fallen Soldiers: Reshaping the Memory of the World Wars. New 
York: Oxford UP, 1990. 

Pavone, Claudio. Una guerra civile: saggio storico sulla moralita nella Resistenza. 
Torino: Bollati Boringhieri, 1991. 

Perona, Ersilia Alessandrone. Personal Interview. 17 June 1997. 

Petrov, Krinka Vidakovic. “Memory and Oral Tradition.” Memory: History, Culture 
and the Mind. Ed. Thomas Butler. Oxford, Eng.: Blackwell, 1989. 77-96. 

Porciani, Ilaria. “I] Plutarco Feminile.” L’educazione delle donne: scuole e modelli di 
vita femminile nell’Italia dell’ottocento. 2nd ed. Ed. Simonetta Soldani. Milano: 
Franco Angeli, 1991. 297-317. 

Richards, Charles. The New Italians. London: Michael Joseph, 1994. 

Rodari, Gianni. “Introduzione”. Jl Capitano. Roma: Sapere 2000, 1994. 7-11. 

Romano, Sergio. Biografia e storiografia. Ed. Alceo Riosa. Milano: Franco Angeli, 
1983. 14-22. 

Rousso, Henri. The Vichy Sindrome. Trans. Arthur Goldhammer. Cambridge, Mass.: 
Harvard UP, 1991. 

Stanfield, James. An Essay on the Study and Composition of Biography. Edinburgh, 
1813. 

Tobino, Mario. “Il Pasi.” Antologia poetica della resistenza italiana. Ed. Elio Filippo 
Accrocca and Valerio Volpini. Firenze: Landi, 1955. 94. 

Vigano, Renata. L’Agnese va a morire. 1994 ed. Torino: Einaudi, 1994. 

Vigezzi, Brunello. Biografia e storiografia. Ed. Alceo Riosa. Milano: Franco Angeli, 
1983. 28-34; 98-109. 

Filmography: 

Rossellini, Roberto. Roma, citta aperta , 1945. 





oa oo ee 
ee eat eanean 


oe te 


J 
<t toeg} © mrmg ge? 5, & 
Taser ih” 
ai, 
ee ee 
re ee ee 
ee 2 ee eT) 
7 @:4 | om, aid 
; ~~ = 1 > i oe 
fh aa ge 


re | rr 


i = tee oS 7 
_ seh ee, 


a tet dete — ¢ 
u a : ne = 
° - _ 1 ' *se6 


- ae - F 8 


SS OS a 


‘+ . we to of” teams) 
a wt 7 VX. Ab 
en fs fae te oe 
— - vial ths 
7 ed 
- Ww _& . oom: " 


7 oo 1B =a? 
- $2. 
se 8 LAR 
im «of 
se ~ i— 8 ont 


a > ss wes 
re ae 
- ,7 =| 





Kriss Ravetto 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmaking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 


Kinder, heut’ abend, da such ich mir was aus 
Einen Mann, einen richtigen Mann 

Kinder, die Jungs hang mir schon zum Hals heraus 
Einen Mann, einen richtigen Mann.! 

(Marlene Dietrich in The Blue Angel) 


How could Nazism. . . have become everywhere today . . . in all the pornographic 
literature of the world, the absolute reference to eroticism.” 
(Michael Foucault) 


I. After the defeat of Italian and German Fascism, anti-fascist cinema has performed 
an ironic act of displacement: it removed the aggressive sexuality of Lola Lola, as 
portrayed by Marlene Dietrich in The Blue Angel, from the context of the Weimar 
Republic, and transformed it into a modern cultural icon of fascist sexual politics. 
Lola Lola returns in a sadomasochist play, dressed in Nazi regalia. Such films as 
Luchino Visconti’s La caduta degli dei (1969), Bob Fosse’s Cabaret (1972), and 
Bernardo Bertolucci’s // Conformista (1971) all view Fascism as a theater of 
morally reprehensible sexuality: voracious sexual consumption, control and torture. 
Linda Mizejewski comments on this re-making of the cabaret vamp when she 
argues: “Antifascist productions end up duplicating the fascist politics they strive 
to condemn, reproducing the homophobia, misogyny, fascination for spectacle, and 
emphasis of sexual difference that characterize German fascism” (Mizejewski 25). 
The process of transforming decadence into fascism is a metonymic repetition that 
retains the aesthetic form of both fascism and what the Fascists condemned as 
degenerate art, while emptying it of its former historical significance, yet still 
maintaining its ideological and moral content. Michael Foucault has questioned this 


' Hollander, Friedrich (music) and Robert Liebmann (lyrics), “Kinder, heut’ Abend such’ 
ich mir was aus.” My interest in this song is its reference to Josef Von Sternberg’s 1929 
adaptation of Heinrich Mann’s novel The Blue Angel, especially to the character of Lola 
Lola as played by Marlene Dietrich (as the film opens with her singing in a cabaret, one of 
the songs is this one). The repetition of the voice emphasizes the erotic masculinization of 
excessive feminine sexuality present in the sentimental content of many of Dietrich’s songs; 
this song is anomalous since it lacks the sentimental and even tragic qualities of the majority 
of Dietrich’s recordings. 

? Although Micheal Foucault’s biography seems to implicate him in this “fascinating 
fascism,” he makes the distinction between Nazi moralism and the “pornographic” cult of 
Sadomasochism (33). 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


262 Kriss Ravetto 


permutation, asking how Nazism, which fashioned itself on its own model of blood 
purity and masculine mastery, could become the ultimate sign of decadent erotic 
sexuality. Specifically, how could the character of the Nazi and the Fascist come 
to be identified with the same ‘impure’ icons (e.g. feminized sadists and femme 
fatales) they once used to represent external (Bolshevik, Slav, African) and internal 
(Jew, homosexual, mentally disadvantaged, Gypsy) threats to German and Italian 
‘purity’. 

Surprisingly, this kind of fascination with Fascism has drawn several 
homosexual directors to view it as ultimately rooted in homosexuality itself. For 
such film-makers as Visconti, Bertolucci and Fosse, the representation of Fascism 
as homo-erotic serves simultaneously to empower homosexuality by associating it 
with a powerful sign of evil, and dis-empower it by simply reproducing what has 
been pre-established as socially and morally abject. As Foucault’s statement 
implies, the eroticization of Nazism requires that an uncertain threat remains a 
potential menace that stands as the ultimate sign of transgressive sexuality. Yet the 
post-war identification of Fascism with subversive sexual transgression not only 
equates sexuality with evil and violence, but also reduces it to a narrative of 
repression, therefore casting it abstractly in the “dubious discourse of the 
symptom,” to use the words of Paul de Man (58). Through the guise of the 
symptom, an otherwise aggressive male sexuality is mistakenly framed as 
homosexual, thus collapsing the homosexual into the homosocial. 

In this essay, I shall focus on the sexual politics of Liliana Cavani’s Portiere 
di notte (1974) and Lina Wertmiiller’s Pasqualino settebellezze (1975). Unlike 
other reincarnations of Nazi sexual politics, these two films disrupt the continuous 
representation of the femme fatale as an emblem of Evil, undermining a discourse 
that divides and sorts out ‘good objects’ according to sex, race and sexual practice. 
Although Cavani and Wertmiiller are equally implicated in the sexualization of the 
figure of the Nazi, they draw upon the aesthetics of the sublime, which does not 
allow a return to the confines of ‘straight’ politics nor a return to the stylistic 
campiness and kitsch of other films that place the “sexual deviant” in the position 
of the Nazi and re-spectacularize the feminine body as a masculinized body or a 
satirical body. Cavani and Wertmiiller address the social construction of femininity 
in relation to “modern” representations of Nazism as an aestheticized sexual 
discourse. In contrast to such filmmakers as Bertolucci, Visconti, and Fosse who 
deploy the aesthetics of evil and decadence as a means of establishing an anti- 
fascist aesthetic, Cavani and Wertmiiller reject the categorical distinctions of good 
and evil, since already embedded in those attributes is a notion of purity that is also 
gendered as masculine. 

Instead of representing the return of the repressed as a continuous sadistic 
repression of the sexually marginalized, Wertmiiller and Cavani take a different 
approach to Nazism and sexuality. Pasqualino settebellezze and Portiere di notte 
defy both hetero- and homosexual filmic conventions. As Marguerite Waller puts 
it, these films are “insistently ambiguous and open, [they] offer too many possible 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 263 


readings of figures, actions, images and sequences” (Waller 9). They confuse and 
constantly transmute the “revival” theater of fascist sadomasochism by shifting the 
focus from the historical reality of Fascism to its fetishization in popular culture. 
Rather than forcing the female character into the contradictory positions of victim 
par excellence and absolute sadistic victimizer, Cavani estranges the notion of the 
pure victim by undermining the erotics of masochism: Lucia, the survivor, consents 
to the violent sexual play incited by Max, the night porter and former SS officer, 
while Wertmiiller replaces the image of the Nazi as a sadistic feminized man with 
a sadistic masculinized woman. In Pasqualino settebellezze the female Nazi 
commandant does not reinforce the sadistic absolute as a masculine agency, even 
if she wears the clothing and wields the power of a man. On the contrary, she 
derides masculine virility as impotent under its own ideal law. The two films 
converge in the disruption of the engendered subject/object relationship, and in the 
refusal to produce univocal meanings. This instability in the positioning of the 
subject does not allow for the re-creation of moral positions, nor for the re- 
establishment of a transcendental narrative, but confronts them as totalizing 
discourses that mimic the language of Fascism itself. As representations of 
cinematic otherness, Portiere di notte and Pasqualino settebellezze prevent the 
spectator from interpreting these films in terms of Western narratives and heroes, 
or histories based on both gender politics and the Holocaust. 

The de-familiarized treatment of seduction offered by both Portiere di notte 
and Pasqualino settebellezze moves from what Jean Baudrillard names “the 
aesthetic phase of the seducer,” whose sphere of influence approaches that of ironic 
and diabolic feminine sexuality, toward its finality in a political phase as an 
“unlimited distribution,” where seduction becomes the “demultiplied framework of 
elusive politics, an endless reproduction of a form without content” (Baudrillard 
163-65). It is the hyper-presence of textual references and intertextual play that 
reproduces the multiple readings we have of these films. In Portiere di notte, the 
Dietrich role is parodied in Lucia’s singing (as Max remembers it), which mimics 
both Dietrich’s style and her gestures for her Nazi audience. Critics who reduce this 
image of Dietrich (notably Rex Reed 76, and Pauline Kael 51-52) to seedy 
distortion or camp, neglect the change the image of the female body underwent in 
the 1970’s from the voluptuous body of the movie star to the anorexic body of the 
fashion model. By placing a sex symbol within the context of the concentration 
camp, Cavani transforms the re-fashioning of the female body by the media into a 
waif image of starvation and weakness. Furthermore, Lucia, who was Max’s 
“favorite” prisoner, recalls the young Jewish girl in Gillo Pontecorvo’s Kapo, who 
prostitutes herself to the Nazis in order to ensure her survival. However, the 
character of Lucia lacks a sense of agency: she does not choose to survive — hence 
one can not find fault with her — and remains Max’s chosen “little girl.” Yet in her 
performance as Dietrich, she becomes a little boy instead of an excessive female, 
dressed not as Dietrich, but as a SS officer, which, ironically, gives her the 
appearance of a sadistic dominatrix. In the case of Pasqualino settebellezze, 


264 Kriss Ravetto 


Dietrich is evoked by the dress and the bodily positioning of the Nazi commandant. 
The commandant straddles a chair, much like the stage performance of Sally 
Bowels, assuming the cold expressionless look reminiscent of a Dietrich or Garbo. 
But unlike the classic fatale, she is not the seducer, rather the object of Pasqualino’s 
seduction. These depictions are far less transparent and more ironic than those of 
the transvestite or the lesbian in Visconti, Bertolucci and Fosse, since they subvert 
an aesthetic reading of Fascism as the cult of the visual and engage in questions that 
problematize both historical and psychological readings of fascist sexual politics 
and of the Holocaust. Although both films address and render problematic the 
memory and re-eroticization of Nazism, rather than present an alternative 
interpretation of the “real” event, Cavani and Wertmiiller differ in their treatments 
of the spectacle of seduction. For Cavani, seduction operates as a disruption of 
conventional readings of the gender politics of Nazi victimization, according to 
which the victim is a female survivor of the Nazi camps, and the victimizer is a 
male Nazi camp official. Seduction, therefore, also destabilizes historical or 
national identifications that are predicated on sexual differences. The act of 
seducing, as well as that of being seduced, causes the subject(s) to become the 
Other. In discussing // portiere di notte, I shall focus on the spectacle of seduction 
as an enigmatic intimacy between victim and victimizer, and attempt to show how 
this intimacy moves from a static master-slave relationship, in which the audience 
acts as a voyeur, to one whereby victim and victimizer repeatedly exchange roles, 
thus forcing the audience to identify with undesirable characters and situations. By 
comparison, Wertmiiller provides no such visual pleasure. Instead, in her 
incorporation of Italian Fascism within the context of German Nazism, she satirizes 
sexual identites as they are inscribed within both a gender hierarchy and a gendered 
national imaginary. Accordingly, in the last section of this essay, I shall turn to the 
notion of identity that is made problematic by the trials of survival and 
collaboration. 


I. 
In diesen heil’gen Hallen / Kennt man die Rache nicht /. .. Weil man dem Feind vergibt / 
Wen solche Lehren nicht erfreu’n /Verdienet nicht, ein Mensch zu sein. 

Mozart, Die Zauberfléte 
Considerate se questo é un uomo. . ./ Che lotta per mezzo pane / Che muore per un si 0 per 
un no./ Considerate se questa é una donna, Senza capelli e senza nome / Senza piu forza di 
ricordare.”” (Primo Levi, Se questo é un uomo) 


3 Primo Levi’s poem, which precedes the text of Se questo é un uomo, one of the most 
eloquent accounts of a death camp (Auschwitz), provides my analysis with a political 
understanding of what is at stake in representing the experience of the concentration camp. 
It is a reminder of the limits of representation, calling into question memory and survival. 
Also Levi's questioning of the definition of man makes debatable not only notions of the 
“Einen Mann,” the “Uber Mann,” but also the moral perspective that is alluded to in Die 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 265 


Portiere di notte engages in a multiplicity of discourses: from survival, to gender 
politics, to the fore-grounding of memory as an obsession of both the victim as an 
empowering figure and the victimizer as a figure of guilt, and vice-versa. Although 
Cavani dismantles the binary opposites of pure victim and pure evil, she does not 
allow for a reversal of victim and assassin, as Primo Levi accuses her of doing. 
Instead, her subversion of the moral and sexual position of the subject functions as 
an ironic refraction that ultimately questions conventional roles, rather than 
allowing for the solidification of subject/object relations in what Laura Mulvey 
considers to be the feminine spectacle (the medium of cinema itself) performed for 
the enjoyment of the male gaze.* Cavani deliberately seeks to articulate the sexual 
as political, and to subvert its cinematic rendering through a sustained examination 
of the visual. Her strategy is to render problematic such discursive divisions as Self 
and Other, male gaze and female spectacle. Portiere di notte, therefore, challenges 
film theory’s intense theoretical investment in Lacan’s concept of sexual difference, 
which in turn promotes what Luce Irigaray criticizes as the “imperialism of Lacan’s 
deterministic cultural and historic codes” (87). For Cavani the dynamic of 
victim/victimizer opens into a discourse of voyeurism, sadism and subject 
identification that underscores the very process of disengaging from the visual, 
racial, sexual and political Other. 

Portiere di notte begins with the juxtaposition of the past and present as 
experienced by Max and Lucia, which results in the blurring of time and space, 
memory and reality, from postwar (1957) Vienna to an Hungarian concentration 
camp in the early 1940s. The year 1957 was, as Cavani writes, “l’anno in cui ho 
datato il film, sono partite da poco le truppe sovietiche d’occupazione e Vienna 
riprende a vivere come se niente fosse mai accaduto” (14). Cavani undercuts this 
auspicious return to life as usual by focusing on interiors, what she calls the 
“sottosuolo” (14). Her persistent oscillation between exterior/interior and 


Zauberfléte. What is the relationship of forgiveness to memory? Is either a possibility? More 
important, I wish to enter, yet only peripherally, into the debate on representing the final 
solution and explore the notions of remembrance in relation to memory that Deleuze has 
labeled as the productive and the reproductive. I would like to explore the political 
implications of both in relation to the return of the cult of Nazism as a distorted version of 
sexual play. 

“ Mulvey argues that cinema reproduces a fetishistic economy whereby “women are simply 
the scenery onto which men project their narcissistic fantasies.” Yet, this feminine “to-be- 
looked-at-ness” is only one dimension of cinematic seeing, which reproduces a sense of 
violation. In fact, this scene reflects the humiliation of being looked at by force, yet this time 
is man’s humiliation in front of a woman who treats his sexual prowess indifferently and is 
even bored by it. 


266 Kriss Ravetto 


public/private creates a sense of temporal, visual and psychological confusion. // 
portiere di notte traverses notions of surface and depth, past and present, the 
historical debates over memory and forgetting, in a way that leaves the protagonists 
(along with the audience) somewhere between the desire to forget and the need to 
remember. In her use of montage, she points out the intricate connections of the 
survivors personal memory of the Final Solution to previous filmic representations 
of Nazism or Fascism, classical music, Art Nouveau, German Expressionism, and 
the humanist ideals of the Enlightenment, German utilitarianism, and functionalism. 

The constant aesthetic and diegetic interruptions commence with the opening 
scene of the film, where a series of reverse shots are cut from Max’s face to Lucia’s, 
until they establish eye contact. That very moment of recognition triggers the first 
flashback, a line of clothed prisoners, some with the yellow Jewish Star of David 
pinned to their jackets, the yellow standing out against the blue hue of the film. In 
the next flashback, the same clothed prisoners appear nude, waiting to be 
incarcerated. In this flashback, the juxtaposition of the nude, vulnerable prisoners 
to the bureaucratic SS officers, in full regalia, clearly establishes the relation of 
victim to victimizer: Max holds a camera, documenting the prisoners, yet his 
documentary is interrupted by his focusing on Lucia. Within this double voyeuristic 
spectatorship we are given the eroticized vision of the victimizer, as we watch at 
once Max film Lucia and his filming of Lucia. However, it is never clear whose 
memory (who is invoking the flashback), perspective or fantasy we are viewing. 
This emphasis on a confused and eroticized subjectivity renders any clear vision of 
the Nazi past unrecoverable. The flashback reminds us that the memory is selective, 
and the more it is mixed with desire the more fantastic it becomes. The film 
continues to introduce characters as personalities split between their postwar (often 
seedy) existence and their wartime identity — a highly stylized identity, in that it 
plays on the various representations of Nazism and Fascism in postwar cinema. As 
the narrative unfolds, we realize that memory is paramount, that the characters 
continue to live and re-live their pasts, and yet this past cannot be narrated. Nazism, 
whether celebrated by the ex-Nazis or impressed on the spectator by the trauma of 
the victims, is the departure point, and thus, the locus of identification. However, 
when Max and Lucia actively return to this point of departure (their wartime 
identifications), they are hunted down by Max’s ex-Nazi friends who find the affair 
both dangerous and disruptive to their sense of order in terms not only of their 
purity (Lucia is considered to be a socialist), but also of their desire to conceal their 
past. Their erotic relationship serves to undermine binary understandings of purity 
and impurity, victim and victimizer — necessary distinctions in the manufacture of 
meaning and morality. 

Cavani attempts to question the conventional association of aesthetic 
representation to morality by juxtaposing what seem to be opposing images. For 
example, the juxtaposition of Bert’s (Max’s Nazi comrade and friend) ballet 
performance with Lucia’s cabaret performance is open to multiplicity of readings. 
Bert represents the monumental effeminate masculine beauty (the pristine beauty 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 267 


of perhaps a Kuros statue) while Lucia, who appears bare-breasted in black leather 
gloves and an SS uniform in a smoky room full of SS officers, invokes the sense of 
erotic, sadomasochistic seduction. The distinctions between the two collapse into 
the category of the “campy” androgynous. However, in terms of the discourse of 
purity, Lucia's performance falls into the category of the impure, while Bert 
presents a “pure” humanist ideal. Although Bert’s performance appears as a 
sterilized enactment of his (tragic) homosexual desire, it is the concealment and 
confinement of this desire, his hiding in the dark hotel room that problematizes his 
reference to any heroic or humanist discourse. Bert’s sexual masquerade (his 
repression of his homosexuality) is mirrored in Erika (another friend from Max’s 
Nazi past) who also confines her “voracious” sexual role to a hotel room where she 
pays for the ‘favors’ of young men. Thus, what makes their sexual identity perverse 
is its linkage to their Nazi identity. Their only means of sexual expression (like their 
collective memory) is through the recollection of their Nazi past, and the 
containment of that desire to the privacy of their hotel room. 

While Erika and Bert are presented as one-dimensional (backward looking) 
characters, Lucia, who is Max’s little girl turned bad boy, returns in Max’s “biblical 
narrative” as both Salomé and John the Baptist. When asked by the Contessa 
(Erika) to recount his love story, Max recalls (via a flashback) something he likens 
to the biblical narrative of Salomé. When Lucia asks to have a fellow moved, Max 
responds by bestowing her with a gift-box that contains the head of the prisoner. 
Lucia’s terrified reaction to this gift reminds us that she is also subject to Max’s 
writing and reading of the “biblical narrative” in which she will be a player, and yet 
she is also the impetus for Max’s subsequent action. Hence, Lucia is inscribed in 
his/her narrative as both the temptress and the victim. Likewise, it is the 
sexualization of the relationship between Max and Lucia that causes a similar 
effect, displacing them from the language of absolutes. Although Max and Lucia 
act out a variety of roles corresponding to their changing power relations, their 
sexuality is not as static as that of the Contessa, of Bert and of Lucia’s husband. 

In addition, the memory of Bert’s dancing to Strauss’s Der Rosenkavalier, 
which he constantly re-plays in the privacy of his hotel room, introduces in 
reference to humanism a depersonalized concept of purity and humanity. However, 
as Susan Sontag writes, the filmic device of flashback not only “effectively erases 
the subject of the enunciation, giving the past presence,” but it also undermines the 
romanticized aesthetics of high humanism as absolute liberalism (Sontag 1966, 56). 
Another flashback that weaves in and out of Mozart’s duet in Die Zauberfléte links 
the marriage declaration of Panina to Papageno to the image of a male prisoner 
being raped by a Nazi guard. Here Cavani foregrounds the irony of bourgeois (and 
Fascist) moralism: a sadistic morality that turns into anti-human activity, when 
confronted with what it considers to be non-human. Liberal thought that pronounces 
“Everyone forgives his enemy /he who doesn’t rejoice in such teachings, does not 
deserve to be called a human being,” cannot “consider if this is a man,” since 
humanism is only an ideal, which is dependent on the definition of the term 


268 Kriss Ravetto 


“human” itself. The re-surfacing of moral values installs Lucia’s husband (the 
American opera conductor) back into the discourse of Nazi moralism by visually 
associating him with acts of violence. It appears as if he is in fact directing both 
“operas,” one public and the other privately hidden within the “not so-sacred walls” 
of the concentration camp. What he perpetuates is an idealized representation of 
(Aryan) humanity that, instead of re-creating the melodramatic event, legitimizes 
the sadistic law of purification, upholding heterosexual marriage, and rejecting the 
miscegenation of Pamina with the Moor Sasastro. As Marguerite Waller points out, 
“if the Viennese opera house and the concentration camp are seen as reverse images 
of each other, then it becomes more difficult simply to oppose Lucia’s husband to 
Max. Lucia’s husband is reproducing and naturalizing the white Aryan male subject 
position that Nazism, the epitome of the patriarchal repression of women and ‘non- 
Aryans,’ tried to solidify to an absurd extent” (17). 

In contrast to this sadistic desire to annihilate the Other, Max and Lucia are 
cast in a masochistic supra-sensual play, designed to undermine notions of purity. 
Their masquerade as victim and victimizer indulges in an array of inversions, 
projections and blurring of boundaries. Unlike Gilles Deleuze’s notion of the 
theatrics of masochism, where the subject/object and gender positions are written 
in the contract, Max and Lucia’s power positions are constantly shifting.’ For 
Deleuze, masochists maintain a reflective distance and never really abandon 
themselves to the game, for the contract always allows for the masochist to maintain 
order and control. The one thing that Deleuze leaves out of his definition of 
masochism is love. And for Cavani this is the most destabilizing factor of Max’s 
and Lucia’s relationship. Cavani argues that “in every couple there exists a degree 
of sado-masochism [but] this is nothing compared to the numberless couples who 
tear each other apart psychologically [therefore, Max’s and Lucia’s is] a 
relationship that is freer than normal” (Lichtenstein 27). It is not only Lucia’s re- 
enactment of erotic play, but her sexual enjoyment of it that causes both the feminist 
and the male survivor to react violently to the film. Although the victim needs the 
victimizer in order to be defined a victim, the transformation of this logical bond 
of dependency into sexual play puts into question the conventional romantic and 


° Deleuze describes the masochistic hero as a man who desires to be educated by 
authoritarian woman “whereas basically it is he who forms her, dresses her for the part and 
prompts the harsh words she addresses to him.” Thus, it is not only “the victim who speaks 
through the mouth of his torturer,” but the man who becomes a ventriloquist of women. 
Hence, Deleuze conforms to the Lacanian notion that women are a symptom of men. This 
of course undermines man’s status as a victim, since through the contract he maintains his 
subjective authority, i.e. the Deleuzian definition of masquerade only masquerades a system 
of power that is already intact. 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 269 


tragic narrative of such a situation. And this subsequently questions the translation 
of the historic event (absolute sadistic control on the part of the Nazi) into its re- 
presentation (as masochistic play between victim and victimizer, where the sadistic 
law is no longer present). Thus, what disappears in such an unstable economy is the 
sovereignty of the aesthetics of domination, the law of castration and the sublime 
attraction to the man in uniform — from the Nazi to the opera conductor and the 
night porter 

By erasing the official line between good and evil, Cavani blurs the 
conventional aesthetics of domination, Nazism, victimization and submission. As 
opposed to the aesthetics of Camp, as well as Neorealism, which identify the Nazi 
with evil incarnate, Cavani’s film rejects the re-coding of evil in the misogynist 
discourse and aesthetics that stem from thinkers such as Otto Weininger, Max 
Nordeau, Cesare Lombroso, and Sigmund Freud. On the other hand, she does not 
subscribe to the politics of victimization in that she does not identify either with the 
victims or the victimizers. For Cavani, both positions are already radically dis- 
empowered, since they are fixed. What makes this dissolution of boundaries, 
identities, and power structures so unpalatable for many viewers and critics is that 
the deconstruction of subjective (patriarchal) identities leads to questions of 
morality that are deeply embedded within historical, sexual and gender ideologies. 
In the case of The Night Porter, the audience is left with an “impossible” choice of 
identifying with a victim who is no longer a “pure” victim, a victimizer who is not 
absolutely evil, nor is he in complete control, or a group of ex-Nazis who desire a 
return to order as a means of separating the Nazi from his or her victim. Most critics 
of The Night Porter, however, find Max’s indulgence in sadomasochistic theatrics 
less offensive than Lucia’s. Implicit within such critiques is the belief that the 
victimizer is always completely impure, while the victim, in order to be defined as 
a victim, must be pure, morally irreprehensible. Critics, therefore reinforce this 
alleged “social need” for stable subjective identifications, calling for Max and 
Lucia to be put in their proper places. It is not only Lucia’s re-enactment of this 
erotic play, but more importantly her apparent sexual enjoyment that causes 
feminists such as Pauline Kael and Molly Haskell, and the male survivors of the 
holocaust (most notably Primo Levi and Bruno Bettelheim) to react violently to the 
film. For example, Primo Levi responds to The Night Porter, calling it “bello e 
falso,” and demanding that the distinction between victims and assassins be 
maintained (Levi 1986, 661). While Thomas Quinn Curtis writes, “Lucia is a mad 
sadist without a trace of conscience; Cavani’s ‘heroine’ seems to be a complacent 
slut, a singularly weak-willed moron” (Curtis 11). Ironically, Cavani supports the 
distinction between victim and victimizer in the context of the WW II and the Final 
Solution. It is only in the representation of the postwar period that identifications 
with victims and victimizers become problematic. Hence, the problem for Cavani 
is not the representation of the Final Solution, but that of maintaining of such rigid 
moral identifications. 

The violent reaction of critics like Curtis and Levi to the portrayal of feminized 


270 Kriss Ravetto 


men, ex-Nazi officials, quack doctors (both past and present), impure victims, and 
femmes fatales in the context of a love story, indicates a desire on their part that the 
victim be de-sexualized. Only then can one identify with either the sadistic Nazi or 
his or her absolute victim. What is at stake is the undesirable intimacy between 
victims and victimizers. The social desire to disavow this intimacy, however, 
derives from the need to objectify the victim and subjectify the victimizer so as to 
create a relationship of total indifference, whereby all acts of malevolence are 
driven solely by sadistic, yet narcissistic desires, to be acted out on innocent 
objects. Consequently, such interpretations suggest that the only way to read the 
dynamic between victims and victimizers is sadistically, hence the only way to 
represent Fascism is through sadism.° Cavani, on the other hand, replaces the 
conventional sadistic representation of the relationship of Nazis to their victims 
with an enigmatic intimacy. Furthermore, The Night Porter challenges critical 
readings that cast Lucia in the conventional role of a femme fatale: “a slut,” “a 
moron,” “a sadist,” “decadent,” and even “fascist.” Pauline Kael, who describes 
Rampling’s appeal as a “necrophiliac allure” under the sign of “contamination” and 
“drag,” speaks in the name of political correctness while blaming the victims for not 
remaining pure victims, but turning into feminized figures, “with an underlying 
homosexual feeling” (Kael 51). Not only do such interpretations equate the image 
of the femme fatale with homosexuality, decadence, disease and death, but they 
return their ideological model to the discourse of purity, by seeing the femme fatale 
(even if she is a victim) as an expression of impurity. The problem here is, of 
course, that such criticism seems to suggest, if not to justify the fact, that these ex- 
Nazis were right to want to file Lucia away, since she threatens to contaminate the 
social order. Such thinking dovetails with that of Otto Weininger, who argues that 
it is the hysterical female, impregnated and penetrated by everything (i.e., an image 
of total corruption), who destroys the community (145). 


Il. 

“Your thirst for life disgusts me. Your love is disgusting to me. In Paris a Greek made love 

to a goose; he did this to eat, to live. Sub-human Italian larva, you ate and moments later you 

found strength for an erection. ... That is why you’ll survive, and win in the end.” 
Pasqualino settebellezze 


Instead of explaining the mass attraction of Fascism and Nazism as a form of 
seduction on the part of a charismatic leader, Portiere di notte and Pasqualino 


° For example Bersani and Dutoit argue that it “is precisely the illusion — deeply 
characteristic of our culture — that every contact produces what we repulsively call a 
‘relationship,’ which makes the sentimental denouement of The Night Porter inevitable (86). 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 271 


settebellezze restore women to Fascism not simply as victims of seduction but as 
enigmatic figures who subvert the narratives of both psycho-sexual politics and 
Nazi eroticism. The fact that Nazi brutality and authority is embodied in a female 
character, like the Nazi commandant in Wertmiiller’s film, challenges 
interpretations of Fascism and Nazism put forth by historians like Macciocchi and 
by Eugen Weber, who has remarked that “the fascist leader conquers a crowd and 
subdues it as he would a woman or a horse.” But more than criticize the self-image 
of the Fascist, Wertmiiller inveighs against the postwar male Italian imaginary 
which, she feels, fosters fascistic behavior, supporting the images and the rhetoric 
of Mussolini and Hitler as models of charm and virility. If, as Barbara Spackman 
argues, the “staging of Mussolini’s sexual forcefulness may be construed as an 
interpellation of other men for” what Spackman likens to Irigaray’s notion of a 
‘“hom(m)o-sexual economy,” then does the continued re-interpretation of this 
extreme masculine image in fact promote the same hom(m)o-sexual economy? 
(Spackman 12). Spackman points out that “there is an equivocal collusion between 
what claims to be an antifascist critique and an implicit adherence both to the 
gender politics and to the image of the Duce promulgated by Fascism itself” (26). 
The acceptance of Italian Fascism as an expression of aggressive male sexuality is 
manifest in Macciocchi’s interpretation of Mussolini as a seducer of men and 
women, as opposed to the homosexuals she believes Nazism succeeded in seducing. 
She goes as far as to claim that “I nazisti, essendo per lo pit. omosessuali 
rappresentavano le donne tutte nude (e frigide) come frutti della natura... . La 
propensione pederastica dei nazisti ¢ la fame di donne” (Macciocchi 96-100). The 
distinction Macciocchi draws between the aggressive sexuality and “pure 
manliness” of the Duce and the feminized, and therefore “sexually perverse,” image 
of Hitler, serves to justify Italian Fascism as the lesser evil. Hence, for Macciocchi, 
Nazism derives from decadence, femininity and homosexuality, while Fascism from 
virility, manliness, and heterosexuality. The image of both the commandant and 
Pasqualino contradict what Karen Pinkus calls the “traditional iconography of 
fascism”: the image of the muscular young man, and the “bosomy peasant-mother.” 
But although “the ‘true’ body of the fascist is the phallic body, existing in a state 
of preparedness for war. It was possible for women to occupy this position at 
certain moments in the history of the regime, as long as they were relatively 


7 Weber, like Macciocchi, replicates arguments made by thinkers like Gustav Le Bon at the 
turn of the century. Le Bon as many other fin-de-siécle thinkers uses the feminine as a 
metaphor for both the masses and popular culture. What I find most problematic with this 
line of thinking is the need to turn the masses into a feminine body, yet at the same time 
preserve the identity of both the leader and the followers of Nazism and Fascism as 
aggressively masculine (35). 


272 Kriss Ravetto 


malleable, capable of moving back to the mystical place reserved for maternity” 
(Pinkus 86). Whereas Wertmiiller reverses gender-roles, suggesting that gender 
itself appears to be purely a cultural construct, and therefore that male sexuality has 
no natural foundation in truth and purity, whether moral or national. In other words, 
while she presents gender as a masquerade, she at the same time refutes both the 
image of fascism as aggressive masculinity, and its contrary, as perverse and 
decadent femininity, in reference, perhaps, to in Visconti’s The Damned where 
Nazism is encoded appears as sadomasochism and kitsch. 

By depicting Pasqualino as a ladies’ man and the commandant as perversely 
asexual, Wertmiiller parodies the contrary notions of Fascist virility and Nazi 
rigidity. Nowhere in the Pasqualino settebellezze does Wertmiiller suggest a 
linkage between Fascism and moral and sexual deviance. Instead she examines the 
question of gendering the Final Solution, exploring the masses’s desire for Nazism 
and Fascism. Although the appeal to Fascism draws on the rhetoric of masculinity, 
virility, purity, and violence, the allure of such rhetoric is not gender specific. In 
fact, it is the commandant who epitomizes the ideal fascist-man, while Pasqualino 
and Francesco are failures as Fascists, and, especially, as men, since they are neither 
devout Fascists nor anti-Fascists. 

In contrast to Cavani, who destabilizes the position of the male and female 
subject by blending memory with desire — in a series of flashbacks where it is not 
clear whether the spectator is “subjected” to Max or to Lucia’s memory or sexual 
fantasy — Wertmiiller dwells on the panic of male identity. Playing with Felliniesque 
images and comic style, she satirizes positions of power as codified in terms of 
gender. Pasqualino’s masculinity is constantly undermined by his failed attempts 
to identify him self as macho. He dominates his seven sisters, especially Concettina 
(the oldest of the seven who becomes a cabaret singer and a prostitute), plays the 
role of the good son so as to enchant the female doctor at the mental institute where 
he is imprisoned, and, once captured by the Nazis for deserting the Italian army, he 
plays the role of the seducer, pretending to be in love with the concentration camp 
commandant. While Pasqualino never plays the role of a woman, he is often ‘out- 
manned’ by the women he encounters. In other words, while the women assume not 
traditional male roles but, positions of power, Pasqualino inconspicuously submits. 
In subverting conventional gender codes, Wertmiiller, disrupts the logical systems 
by which we standardize and legitimize representations of reality and their 
underlying visual systems of power. 

Pasqualino settebellezze abounds with Felliniesque images and comedic style, 
with particular reference to Amarcord. But while Amarcord suggests, as James Hay 
writes “a fond memory [and the film itself] satirizes the ritual of the provincial 
community” (Hay 12), Wertmiiller challenges the ability of Amarcord to localize 
or domesticate Fascism, by pointing to the fact that the film focuses solely on the 
dreams of adolescent boys who hope to gain power and love by attaching 
themselves to what appears to be the “sexiness” of the regime and the image of the 
Duce (Hay, 12). Instead of infantalizing Fascism, as Fellini does, by representing 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 273 


it as a prolonged adolescence, Wertmiiller reproduces these same infantile figures 
of Italian men and women and incorporates them within the context of the violence 
and brutality of war. Moreover, unlike Fellini, she forces the caricature of the 
Italian Fascist (a bungler, disinterested in politics) to relate to the mythic image of 
the puritanically cruel Nazi. As a result, she debunks the notion of “failed” fascist 
virility, according to which Italian Fascism is a lesser evil than Nazism, less 
puritanical (more sexualized), less racist (less anti-Semitic), and less militarist and 
nationalist (less successful in its colonial enterprises). With her ironic citation of 
Fellini — and also historians, such as Saul Friedlander, who define Nazism as a 
“juvenile fraternity’ — Wertmiiller redresses the question of responsibility, lost in 
the infantile image of the Great Dictator, the adolescent figure of Fellini, and the 
various infantile renderings of Hitler we find in Hans-Jiirgen Syberberg’s Hitler, A 
Film from Germany.’ She suggests that such representations contribute to the 
perpetuation of the myth of masculine monumentality, as well as the Oedipal myth 
of the family, according to which history is viewed in terms of a hierarchy of 
maturity. 

The narrative structure of Pasqualino settebellezze relies on the interplay of 
flashbacks, as for example, Pasqualino’s memory of the events that lead him to 
desert the Italian army and be taken as a prisoner by the Nazis. The opening scene 
in the film where Pasqualino meets Francesco in the German forest reveals the 
differences between the two Italians. Even though the figures of Pasqualino and 
Francesco appear in almost total darkness, the two characters are immediately 
distinguished by their different accents: Pasqualino’s is distinctly Neapolitan and 
Francesco’s Milanese. The linguistic and regional division referred in their different 
speech inflections, according to Giuliana Bruno, signifies the fact that “Italy is a 
country without a real organic national identity, as it lacks a founding myth and 
well-defined autarchic aspects to sustain a monolithic unity and centralization. 
Within the Italian territory is a conglomerate of diverse regional and local forces 
that express differences in language as well as in history and culture” (Bruno 10). 
Italy as a place of diverse cultural and historical backgrounds is a major obstacle 
to Fascist project of italianita, a media campaign designed to rid the nation of 
regionalism and crude local scenes of poverty and violence. By reviewing issues of 
difference, Wertmiiller questions the manufacture of stereotypes as another form 
of propaganda that undermines critical debates. Yet, as Millicent Marcus points out, 
“Given the virulent northern prejudice against the many immigrants from the South, 


® Friedlander argues that “no matter what their actual age, this is the world of boys, with its 
pranks (the master, incognito, out at night with his valet) but also its nostalgia and above all 
the loyalty of a juvenile fraternity to its own norms, to the one among them who becomes 
the chief. Hitler remained an eternal adolescent” (12). Yet, he does not explore the bearing 
this has on the effects of the War nor, what might seem inappropriate, the Holocaust. 


274 Kriss Ravetto 


Wertmiiller’s ethnic stereotyping takes on unmistakable racist overtones” (315). 
Hence, Wertmiiller entertains racist, class oriented, and regional stereotypes, but 
rather than celebrating such stereotypical images, she launches a scathing critique 
of their domestication. Pasqualino is, in fact, a Neapolitan gangster, a petty criminal 
who pretends to be a wounded soldier, when in reality he steals the bandages off of 
a dead man, while Francesco, by contrast appears to be more educated, more 
politically aware and more conscientious. In fact, rather than deserting his regiment, 
as Pasqualino does, he releases his men from active duty and thereby risks being 
court marshaled. 

The dialogue between the two deserters points to their divergent world views. 
After witnessing a pogrom of Jewish civilians, both Pasqualino and Francesco, who 
are equally appalled by the actions of the Germans, run away. Yet, on the one hand, 
Francesco expresses his guilty feelings for not having acted to stop the massacre, 
while Pasqualino, on the other, argues that such an action would be useless, it 
would only mean their certain death. At the same time Francesco demonstrates 
social consciousness and compassion, he also reveals his previous investment in 
Fascism, since, unlike Pasqualino, he has killed in the name of the Fascist state. 
Pasqualino instead has killed only for personal reasons: namely for honor. 
Therefore, Pasqualino, who distances himself from the act of political and 
ideological opposition to war and its atrocities, also distances himself from his 
military responsibilities by admitting that he has never performed the duties of a 
soldier, having killed only for the sake of a woman, that woman being his own sister 
who had dishonored the family name by becoming a prostitute. Pasqualino recounts 
how omerta is linked to vendetta; how the honor of his family name depends on 
avenging his sister’s fall into prostitution, and how the murder of Don Tonnino 
causes all of his seven sisters to prostitute themselves in order to pay for his lawyer. 
Since his pride overcomes him, he admits to killing Tonnino and, therefore, can 
only dishonor himself by pleading insanity. It is after he rapes a fellow patient in 
the asylum that he is “offered” the option to leave the asylum to become a soldier: 
an act which ultimately leads back to his desertion and his imprisonment in the Nazi 
concentration camp. There he will scheme to seduce the woman commandant in 
order to survive, thus providing another intertextual reference to the scenario of 
Kapo. 

Pasqualino settebellezze thus departs from psycho-sexual interpretations of 
Fascism’s charismatic leaders in order to explore the psycho-sexual problems of the 
average man, who is forced to adhere to an aggressively male-oriented “compulsory 
system.” This marks a political shift in assigning blame. Susan Sontag writes that 
Hitler likened public speech to rape that would make “the feminized masses come” 
(1980, 97). Friedlander notes “that under Nazism, Hitler was indeed the object of 
desire” (52), and goes on to conclude, however, that we are not dealing with the 
figure of an over-sexual rapist, but with the “cultivated image of the petty bourgeois 
Mr. Everyman, the middle class common denominator” (66). Hence, it is unlikely 
that Hitler could return as an icon of sexual attraction. More likely, the SS proved 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 275 


to be the site of sexual attraction since it was “the ideal incarnation of fascism’s 
overt assertion of the righteousness of violence. [The SS men] were supremely 
violent, but also supremely beautiful” (Sontag 99). By returning to the images of 
the Einen Mann or the machismo of Mussolini, Wertmiiller comments on their 
capacity to provoke what Bettelheim sees as “a true serious reception of fascism” 
(Bettelheim 34). What disturbs Bettelheim so much is that Hitler and Mussolini 
appear as caricatures in Wertiimuller’s film. He argues that Wertmiiller’s 
contextualization of archival footage makes fun of Mussolini and Hitler: “Hitler is 
shown as the man with the funny mustache as he was in Chaplin’s film,” and 
“Mussolini and Hitler are so pompous that we cannot take them seriously” (34). 
Rather than addressing the actual film narrative, in which there are no 
characterizations of Hitler and Mussolini, Bettelheim conflates the archival footage 
and actual rhetoric of each regime with the fictional parody of Fascism and Nazism 
that appears in Chaplin’s The Great Dictator. Like many of the film’s critics, 
Bettelheim reveals his own aesthetic preference for documentary and Neo-Realism 
in treating subjects like the Final Solution, a preference, however, that excludes the 
representation of Hitler and Mussolini. 

The comic irony of the images contradicts Bettelheim’s remembrance of their 
“seriousness.” While the words “Nazism” and “Fascism” still evoke strong 
responses, the images and faces of the Fiihrer and the Duce incite laughter. 
Furthermore, contrary to Bettelheim’s argument that the dubbing of the song 
“Quelle che” over the documentary clips of Hitler, Mussolini, and various images 
from World War II transforms the “seriousness of the event” in a farce, it is in fact 
the music that performs the exact opposite by returning Fascism and Nazism, from 
their almost comedic appearance in old footage, to a political discourse that 
comments on the socio-historical significance of these otherwise clichéd moving 
pictures. 

Wertmiiller directly confronts the notions of Italian memory and national 
imaginary by making them caricatures through Pasqualino’s mimicking of the Duce, 
thus helping us verify his role as madman who, like Mussolini, is also presented as 
both a “family man” and a “ladies’ man.” Wertmiiller’s caricature of “virilismo 
fascista” is accompanied not only by her depiction of the “frigidly sadistic” Nazi 
commandant, but also by a series of what Bettelheim observes are “ridiculously fat 
and grotesque” women. Ironically, Bettelheim is offended by the grotesquesness of 
the Wertmiiller’s portrayal of feminine seductiveness. He cannot help but comment 
that “the closer she [the commandant] gets to being a woman the more grotesque 
this mass of flesh becomes”’(Bettelheim 48). Although I find Bettelheim’s response 
questionable, his comment underlines the film’s “play” on the notions of excessive 
sexuality (the obsessive looking at women’s bodies) in relationship to the 
mythological status of both genders and nations. While Woman is conventionally 
cast in a supra-carnal sexual role which promises excessive pleasure, the 
commandant represents the opposite: not just the grotesque as Bettelheim claims, 
but also a sadistic castrating Law. That is, she takes the place of the Law. The 


276 Kriss Ravetto 


commandant presents humanism in its coldest “purity.” Not only does she play the 
victim in a tragic-romantic narrative (the ultimate failure of the master race that 
strove for ideological purity), but she is as a connoisseur of the arts. Prisoners play 
the violin as in an opera when others are about to die, and she acquires Bronzino’s 
Venus, Cupid, Folly and Time, which stands behind her as Pasqualino attempts to 
seduce her. 

Wertmiiller uncovers the male fear of the grotesque as a symptom of the threat 
posed by a sexually potent woman that accompanies the anxiety of performative 
inadequacy. Here the commandant actualizes this humiliation by drawing attention 
to Pasqualino’s sexual performance. This scene, which Bettelheim sees as “the rape 
of mankind,” draws attention to another social enigma. It recalls a previous scene 
where Pasqualino rapes a bound woman patient in the asylum, calling her a “rotten 
whore” and a “stinking bitch” as she resists his force. By comparison, this “rape of 
man,” which the commandant justifies as a struggle for survival, awakens a series 
of gender related problems. Bettelheim distinguishes the two scenes by the intent 
of the victim: whereas the rape of the woman is a passive rape, Pasqualino’s is 
active. However, this last qualification exceeds the definition of rape. Only as a 
feminized body can Pasqualino be considered a victim of rape, since according to 
the narrative, he willfully contrives this scheme of seduction as a means of survival. 
Contrary to Bettelheim’s belief that the commandant de-humanizes the victim, 
Wertmiiller problematizes this very notion of “humanity.” According to 
Bettelheim’s definition, Pasqualino has no humanity to lose. 

Although the commandant is de-humanized as a castrating Nazi female, she is 
re-humanized in her relationship to Pasqualino. She is aware that he is using her as 
a means for survival, and is, thus, empowered by his desire: not by using him for 
sexual satisfaction as Bettelheim maintains, since it is obvious she has none, but in 
seeing how far he will go in degrading himself in order to live. Therefore, by 
entering into a discourse with the victimizer, the victim becomes part of the process 
of victimization. Bettelheim calls Wertmiiller’s film a “disturbing debasement of 
life, inside and outside of the concentration camp (34),”and, since he does not 
accept the notion of survival at any cost, argues that there is no heroic position in 
Pasqualino settebellezze. Bettelheim, obviously, longs for the return of the romantic 
hero, but, ironically, as Jean Francois Lyotard has remarked, “the hero is alive and 
well. Under other names, ‘Nazism’ persists in the West” (1990, 88). Instead of 
offering a romantic narrative of the triumph of good over evil, Wertmiiller 
emphasizes moral obligation through the character of the anarchist, Pedro. It is he 
who calls for a “new man to be born, a civilized man, not a beast, a man with 
values, nature’s value, a new man who can rediscover harmony within.” This appeal 
recalls the Fascist call for a “new man,” while differentiating itself from it by 
disassociating the “new man” from the he-man. 

Ironically, both films have been criticized for not presenting a clear ideological 
position. While they both sexualize Nazism, they do not simply reduce the image 
of the Nazi to pure Evil. Demands for “historical correctness” directly translate into 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 277 


accusations of the film-maker’s “political incorrectness.” Cavani and Wertmiiller 
are aware of these conflicts, but their interest is not in representing Nazism as a 
“mad dog,” but in showing that Fascism and Nazism did not come out of, nor 
disappear into, a vacuum. As Teresa de Lauretis explains: 


The heritage of Fascism remained and festered in the dark tenement houses and 
luxury hotels of Europe. If Europe had to be rebuilt with the help of the US 
capitalism to serve as a bastion against communism not all ex-fascists and Nazis 
could be done away with, certainly not the majority support institutions, the 
bureaucracy and the courts and the church. 

(36) 


If, as Georges Bataille claims, “sexuality appears to contain something so foul and 
so dangerous, so unequivocal, that one could not approach it without taking 
multiple precautions and detours” (126), then it is no longer surprising that Nazism 
provides one of the greatest erotic metaphors for contemporary society. Although 
Cavani’s erotic (masochistic) and Wertmiiller’s grotesque (sadistic) play into 
opposing roles, they both work to undermine notions of purity. It is precisely the 
process of silencing difference that leads Lyotard to claim that “one does not dare 
think out Nazism because it has been beaten down like a mad dog, by a police 
action, and not in conformity with the rules accepted by its adversary’s genres of 
discourse (argumentation for liberalism, contradiction for Marxism), [therefore] It 
has not been refuted” (1988, 106). 

Cavani and Wertmiiller observe that both good and evil have become relative 
terms. Yet, it is precisely the notion of moral relativity that causes a crisis of 
representation and thinking out of Nazism or Fascism by calling into question the 
notion of progress, and the grounds for asserting morality. As Andrew Hewitt 
writes, “The privative notion of evil in turn creates a void of meaning, a 
representational ‘numbness’; the lack of a representation is felt as the lack of any 
bodily sensation of Auschwitz” (Hewitt 92). This crisis is reflected in the 
characterization of Cavani’s Lucia and Max, and Wertmiiller’s Pasqualino. Rather 
than canonizing heroic images of resistance such as Rossellini’s Manfredi and 
Francesco in Roma citta aperta or the Taviani brothers’ Galvano in The Night of 
the Shooting Stars, which, as Millicent Marcus points out, are “designed to 
galvanize a legitimate post-war society.” Cavani and Wertmiiller debunk such moral 
allusions by shifting the focus from the partisans — those who can speak in the name 
of “duty” and “responsibility” — to the collaborators and the survivors, more 
specifically to the interaction of resisters and survivors with Fascists, Nazis, and 
collaborators (Marcus 399). 

While maintaining what Dominick LaCapra has called “crucial distinctions 
between victims and victimizers” (75) identification with the protagonists of these 
films is not a question of right and wrong; instead it involves various levels of 
incrimination (LaCapra). For instance, Cavani’s portrayal of ex-Nazi SS men draws 


278 Kriss Ravetto 


from the examples of people like Eichmann, Barbie and Priebka to satirize moral 
convictions espoused by them. In the process of undermining the self-proclaimed 
redemption of such dubious figures, she also implicates psychoanalytic readings of 
Nazism and the Holocaust that promulgate therapeutic models, designed to purge 
us of any symptom of guilt. As Hans (one of the ex-Nazis) declares, “we need to 
defend ourselves, the war is not yet over, we need to cleanse ourselves so we don’t 
suffer from guilt complexes.” These ex-Nazis perform their own therapeutic 
process, cleansing themselves of any and all guilt. While Cavani personifies ex- 
Nazis as extremely adaptable, adopting images and discourses of authority or 
legitimacy, her characterization of the concentration camp survivor (Lucia) reveals 
the opposite. She undermines that very authority or legitimacy, since her very 
presence points to both the hypocritical re-establishment of ex-Nazis to “legitimate” 
authorial roles within Austrian society and the continuity of their allegiance to their 
Nazi identities and ideological beliefs. Cavani constructs the character of Lucia out 
of disparate source materials: 1) from documentary sources, accounts of Italian 
socialist women imprisoned by the Nazis during World War II, who express a 
certain compulsion to return to the past, and 2) in response to ambivalent, sexually 
charged images such as Marlene Dietrich and Helmut Berger’s performing Dietrich 
in La caduta degli dei. Thus, she fuses the politics of memory with the aesthetics 
of Fascism in an attempt to reveal the radical inconsistencies of the two forms of 
representation. What Cavani delves into is a more personalized, or internalized, 
politics of memory: while the ex-Nazis want to survive the burden of the past by 
distancing themselves and purifying their conscience (as well as the evidence which 
links them to the events of the past), the so-called survivors cling to memory 
(demand that we remember), yet this memory compromises their own survival as 
well as their own “therapeutic” ridding themselves of the drastic guilt of being 
spared. 

An examination of the terms of survival is also a central concern for 
Wertmiiller. Like Cavani, she represents survival as a certain form of “necessary” 
compromise, even if the character she uses to express such a compromise, 
Pasqualino, seems to have no real moral conviction. And by juxtaposing 
Pasqualino, to more “noble characters,” who die in the name of humanistic values 
of western culture, Wertmiiller questions the meaning of upholding these values in 
the context of the concentration camp. She echoes the thinking of Eli Pfefferkorn, 
who argues that “‘in the death camps, death was never a triumph. What might have 
elevated the recalcitrant inmate to the status of martyrdom or heroism in the eyes 
of his fellow inmates was an act that supported them in their struggle to get through 
another day’s suffering” (2). Dying in the name of humanity is not necessarily a 
heroic act, especially if the repercussions to such an action meant the death of 
fellow prisoners. In addition to their questioning the political and moral purpose of 
memory and its intrinsic relationship to survival, both Cavani and Wertmiiller 
contextualize (or visualize) their films within the aesthetic discourse of Camp, 
visually referencing the masculinized if not transsexual image of Dietrich, and the 


Cinema, Spectacle, and the Unmasking of Sadomasochist Aesthetics 279 


campy repetition of that image in such films such as La caduta degli dei, Cabaret, 
and Lili Marleen. The intertextual reference to Dietrich reveals the traces of her 
iconic metamorphoses from her own ambiguous, yet distinctly voluptuous sexuality, 
to her becoming a model for drag queens, and finally the return of this fatale image 
to the feminine body, which is emaciated in // portiere di notte and obese in 
Pasqualino settebellezze. By inscribing this over-determined aesthetic image of 
Fascism into the context of the concentration camp, they, therefore, challenge the 
sexual politics of Camp, as well as psychoanalytic exposés of Fascism as an 
outbreak of psycho-sexual perversion and the Holocaust as a desire to purify the 
Self by annihilating the Other. More specifically, they explore the political 
implications of popular culture’s conflation of sexual politics with representations 
of Nazism and Fascism. Probing the limits of certain intersections — the sexualized 
aesthetics of Nazism within the context of the Final Solution, the victim as both 
martyr and collaborator or survivor — Cavani and Wertmiiller reveal how binary 
models cannot adequately account for such moral and ideological ambiguities. 


California Institute of the Arts 


Works Cited 


Bataille, Georges. The Accursed Share. 3 vols. Trans. Robert Hurley. New York: Zone 
Books, 1991. 

Baudrillard, Jean. “On Seduction.” Selected Writings. Trans. Mark Poster. Stanford: UP, 
1988. 

Bersani, Leo and Ulysse Dutoit. “Merde Alors.” Stanford Italian Review 2.2 (Fall 1982). 

Bettelheim, Bruno. “Reflections: Surviving.” The New Yorker 2 Aug. 1976. 

Bruno, Giuliana. Streetwalking on a Ruined Map: Cultural Theory and the City Films of 
Elvira Notari. Princeton: UP, 1993. 

Cavani, Liliana. // portiere di notte. Torino: Einaudi, 1974. 

Curtis, Thomas Quinn. “The Night Porter.” /nternational Herald Tribune [Paris] 11 Oct 
1973. 

De Lauritis, Teresa. “Cavani's Night Porter: A Woman's Film?” Film Quarterly 30 (1976- 
77). 

de Man, Paul. The Resistance to Theory. Minneapolis: Minnesota UP, 1987. 

Deleuze, Gilles. Masochism, Coldness and Cruelty. Trans. Jean McNeil. Boston: MIT Press 
Zone Books, 1989. 

Foucault, Michael. Cahiers du Cinema. 251-52 July-August 1974. 

Friedlander, Saul. Refelections on Nazism: An Essay on Kitsch and Death. Trans. by 
Thomas Weyr. Bloomington: U of Indiana P, 1993. 

Hay, James. Popular Film Culture in Fascist Italy. Bloomington: U of Indiana P, 1991. 

Hewitt, Andrew. “The Bad Seed: ‘Auschwitz’ and the Physiology of Evil.” Radical Evil. Ed. 
Joan Copjec. London: Verso, 1996. 


280 Kriss Ravetto 


Irigaray, Luce. “The Poverty of Psychoanalysis.” This Sex Which is Not One. 1985. 
Kael, Pauline. “The Current Cinema: Stuck in the Fun.” The New Yorker 7 Oct 1974. 
LaCapra, Dominick. Representing the Holocaust: History, Theory, Trauma. Ithaca: Cornell 
UP, 1994. 
Levi, Primo. J sommersi e i salvati. Torino: Einaudi, 1986. 
. Se questo é un uomo. Torino: Einaudi, 1958. 
Lichtenstein, Grace. “In Liliana Cavani’s Love Story, Love Means Always Having to Say 
Ouch.” New York Times 13 Oct 1974. 
Lyotard, Jean-Frangois. Heidegger and “the Jews.” Trans. Andreas Michel and Mark 
Roberts. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1990. 
. The Differend. Trans. Georges Van Den Abbeele. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 
1988. 
Macciocchi, Maria. Antonietta. La donna nera: “consenso” femminile e fascismo. Milano: 
Feltrinelli, 1976. 
Marcus, Millicent. /talian Film in the Light of Neorealism. Princeton: UP, 1986. 
Mizejewski, Linda. Divine Decadence: Fascism, Female Spectacle and the Makings of Sally 
Bowles. Princeton: UP, 1992. 
Mulvey, Laura. Visual and Other Pleasures. Bloomington: U of Indiana P, 1989. 
Pfefferkorn, Eli. “Bettelheim, Wertmiiller, and the Morality of Survival.” Postscript: Essays 
in Film and the Humanities 1.2 (Winter 1982). 
Pinkus, Karen. Bodily Regimes: Italian Advertizing under Fascism. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1995. 
Reed, Rex. “The Night Porter Yuck Sick Demented Junk.” Daily News 4 Oct 1974. 
Sontag, Susan. Under the Sign of Saturn. New York: Farrar Strauss Giroux, 1980. 
. Against Interpretation. New York: Farrar Strauss Giroux, 1966. 
Spackman, Barbara. Fascist Virilities: Rhetoric, Ideology and Social Fantasy in Italy. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1996. 
Walker, Marguerite. “Signifying the Holocaust: Liliana Cavani’s Portiere di Notte.” 
Feminism in the Cinema. Ed. Laura Pietropalo and Ada Testafferri. Bloomington: U 
of Indiana P, 1995. 
Weber, Eugen. Vareities of Fascism. New York: Von Nostrand Reinhold, 1964. 
Weininger, Otto. Sex and Character. Trans. W. Heinemann. London: Putnam, 1906. 


Marie Orton 


De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman: 
Faranda, Braghetti, and Mambro 


This single-minded, fanatically inhuman hostility or contempt for the victim’s 
humanity . . . is typical of the pitiless attitude many women terrorists are capable 
of assuming. It is one that men find curiously hard to match. 

H. H. A. Cooper, “Woman as Terrorist” (152) 


The date May 9, 1978 stands out as a reference point in the cultural history of post- 
war Italy, the day the president of the Christian Democratic party, Aldo Moro, was 
shot by militants of the Brigate Rosse (BR). Nearly twenty years later, on July 16, 
1996 in Rome, Germano Maccari was sentenced to life imprisonment for 
involvement in Moro’s death after another former Brigate Rosse member, Adriana 
Faranda, identified Maccari as the mysterious “quarto uomo” at the apartment 
where Moro was held for 55 days. The eighteen-year investigation of Moro’s death 
has hardly concluded with Maccari’s highly unexpected sentencing. If anything, as 
Italy approaches its twentieth year after the assassination, “il caso Moro” continues 
to draw attention to disturbing issues relative to the investigation of extra- 
parliamentary political groups in Italy, including the legal status of members and 
former members of those groups, the State’s past and current reactions to those 
organizations, and the socio-political climate in Italy which gave rise to those 
groups, in sum, the issues which have marked Italian history surrounding the anni 
di piombo. 

This period in Italy between the late 1960s and the mid-1980s saw 
unprecedented internal political and social upheaval, including thousands of acts of 
political violence initiated by both right- and left-wing groups.' Not surprisingly, 
since the dramatic increase of extra-parliamentary militant groups internationally 
since the late 1960s, studies published on tke subject of violent political subversion, 
commonly termed “terrorism,” also number in the thousands. However, within this 
oceanic volume of works, only a few dozen deal specifically, even in part, with 


' The generally accepted reference point for the beginning of political terrorism in Italy is 
the bombing by fascists of the Banco di Agricoltura at Piazza Fontana in Milano on 
December 12, 1969. Both right- and left-wing inspired acts of terrorism declined sharply 
after 1982-83 because of numerous arrests. Within that thirteen-year span, more than 1,200 
Italians were killed in over 13,000 acts of terrorism (Weinberg and Eubank 2-6). 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni 


282 Marie Orton 


women who participated in those organizations.” Clearly, the precise number of 
female or male militants is inherently difficult to assess, given the clandestine nature 
of the organizations as well as myriad variables that differ from nation to nation. In 
the Italian context, estimates place the number of female participants between five 
and twenty percent, with women’s membership in left-wing groups averaging twice 
that of their right-wing counterparts (Weinberg and Eubank 101-05).° But 
differences in national and political affiliations among militant women 
notwithstanding, stereotypes of the female militant exist which are universal to 
representations of the “terrorist” woman, stereotypes which exploit entrenched ideas 
about women and violence. 

Foremost in this “myth of the terrorist woman” is the notion that militant 
women are intrinsically more violent and behave more inhumanely than do men. In 
Shoot the Women First, journalist Ellen MacDonald traces multiple manifestations 
of this notion, which she attempts only partially to debunk, and takes her text’s title 
from instructions reportedly given to the terrorist task forces in Germany and 
England to fire first on the female members of groups, as the women were 
considered to be more ruthless and perilous. Within the stereotype, the image of the 
woman who commits acts of violence for political ends is united with the image of 
the criminal woman, the deviant woman, the unnatural woman. Susanne Greenhalgh 
has pointed out that the “myth of the terrorist woman” ironically is not a “political” 
stereotype at all; in fact, it minimizes the female militant’s political commitment in 
order to align her with the deviant female criminal: “Although there is a powerful 
popular tradition which makes the role-reversing ‘woman-on-top’ a symbol of 
revolution itself, [the female terrorist] is always an ambivalent figure, regarded as 
potentially monstrous . . . even in an arena that privileges violent protagonism, her 
activity will be judged to be intrinsically deviant or psychotic” (161-62). In 
conclusions that echo Lombrosian criminology, Daniel Georges-Abeyie typifies 
female militants in his 1983 study as “unnaturally aggressive” women who “exhibit 
male personality or physical traits” (82). H. H. A. Cooper even claims that such 
women, whom he terms “curious, artificial creations” (153), turn to violent political 
subversion in consequence of the social changes brought about by the women’s 
movement, and because of “woman’s complex sexual nature” (154). 

Paradoxically, the stereotype of the demonically aggressive terrorist woman 
simultaneously characterizes her as dependent on her male counterpart: her political 


* Because the body of works dealing with terrorism is colossal, I refer the reader to the 
following bibliographies: Seymour; Prunckun; Mickolus. See also Wager-Pacifici’s 
discussion of the monsterization of the Brigate Rosse by the media. 

3 Alison Jamieson insists that women’s participation in the Brigate Rosse specifically is 
much lower, approximately 10 %. Also, Della Porta and Bocca concur that a kind of “glass 
ceiling” existed for women in all extra-parliamentary groups, while Weinberg and Eubank 
insist that equality between genders was total. 


De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman 283 


involvement is accidental, indirect, or she is seduced into the enterprise by a man, 
usually a husband or lover, in order to support or further his political pursuit. Robin 
Morgan concludes in The Demon Lover: On the Sexuality of Terrorism that women 
can only be “token terrorists” (33) and can only be leaders in terrorist organizations 
at the expense of their “femininity” or “natural selves” (176-67). Beverly Allen 
asserts that in portrayals of terrorists in Italian fiction, “women on the ‘terrorist’ left 
are generally represented as being muddle-headed sex objects with well-developed 
proclivities for housework and not speaking out of turn. . .” even though accounts 
of actual female militants who defied this typecasting were widely publicized, 
including those of Margherita Cagol, Annamaria Mantini, and Fiora Pirri (170). The 
contradictory stereotype of the politically violent woman replicates the Woman-as- 
other construction that exists in society in general, and disallows these women’s 
choices the status of independent thought. 

Recently, three women who played fundamental roles in Italy’s /otta armata 
have published autobiographical writings: Ne/l’anno della tigre: La storia di 
Adriana Faranda (Baldini & Cosoldi, 1995), and Nel cerchio della prigione 
(Sperling & Kupfer, 1996) by Anna Laura Braghetti of the Brigate Rosse and 
Francesca Mambro, co-founder of the right-wing NAR (Nuclei Armati 
Rivoluzionari). These women’s writings all respond, though in very different ways, 
to this “myth of the terrorist woman” as they attempt to recuperate their identities 
of “woman,” and “human being,” the antithesis of that myth. In addition, these 
women attempt to recover the political aspect of their identities, namely, they affirm 
that they were not less politically motivated or dedicated because they are women. 
In this twofold recuperation, all three writers invoke the same issue — their gender 
— to contend with both their dehumanization as terrorists, and their “otherness” of 
being gendered (female) “terrorists.” These two autobiographical acts resonate with 
a still wider objective. Their stories represent what Michel Foucault has termed 
“counter-memory,” the memory that disrupts the dominant historical discourse, and 
whose repression is essential to the ascendancy of the official memory (“‘Nietzsche, 
Genealogy, History” 160). Foucault’s concept of History as a battle between 
relations of power rather than relations of meaning shows forth in these two texts 
which re-enact their protagonists’ political struggle to change the state (“Truth and 
Power” 114). Thus, in rewriting personal stories, they are also rewriting History, 
specifically, the history of the anni di piombo. In re-imaging themselves, they are 
simultaneously re-imaging the past to include their histories and also credit their 
actions with making a profound impact on the political trajectory of Italy. 

These narrators are clearly aware that their words are foregrounded by and will 
be read through the lens of their demonized media images. They interrogate the 
authority of the totalizing model of the monstrous terrorist and challenge the 
authority of the media-created stereotype by countering with the authority of 
personal testimony. The narrators even suggest that their knowledge is privileged 
for they participated in the actual events. Fundamental to their project is the 
recontexualizing of their violence in terms of the political tensions of the time, 


284 Marie Orton 


which they assume their readers know well. Therefore, the narrators insist — 
although only in passing — that their actions were motivated by a desperate sense of 
personal and political survival. In this way, the textual recreation of the narrators’ 
identities as moral people rather than monsters becomes inextricably bound up with 
their justification of their political violence. 


Adriana Faranda 

Adriana Faranda joined the Brigate Rosse in 1976 at the age of twenty-six, and was 
involved with the organization for three years as a regolare, that is, she lived 
underground, was to have no contact with anyone outside of the organization, and 
worked full-time for the BR, for which she was paid a salary of 200,000 lire per 
month. During that time, Faranda directed the Rome column and organized and 
carried out dozens of actions. In February of 1979, Faranda and her companion 
Valerio Morucci left the organization together after nearly a year of continual 
disagreements with the group, conflicts whose origin Faranda attributed to her 
opposition to the decision to kill Aldo Moro. After leaving the group and until her 
capture in July, 1979, she remained active in the Jotta armata. In 1983 she was 
condemned to life imprisonment, a sentence which was reduced two times, and after 
several years of day release (“‘semi-liberta’’) and parole (“liberta condizionale”), she 
was Officially released in May of 1995. 

While still in prison, Faranda began her autobiographical text Nell ’anno della 
tigre with Silvana Mazzocchi, a journalist from La Repubblica, who reconstructs 
Faranda’s story by weaving together some fifty pages of Faranda’s autobiographical 
reflections together with transcriptions of Mazzocchi’s interviews with Faranda, her 
family, other brigatisti, and state officials, as well as court testimonies and excerpts 
from newspaper articles. The textual presence of interviewer/editor both facilitates 
and insulates Faranda’s narration. Despite her contributions, she is insulated and 
distanced from authorship of the text, for Mazzocchi’s name alone appears as 
official “author.” When I interviewed Silvana Mazzocchi in Rome, she explained 
that as she initiated the project and carried it out, she claimed full authorship. 
According to Mazzocchi, Faranda reviewed the text for her, and wrote the 
autobiographical reflections presented in italics specifically for the book, but did 
not wish to be co-author or participate in the book’s promotion. 

The centrality of the interview format is crucial to the autobiographical project 
of recuperation. The interview, with its necessary textual mediation of second and 
third parties creates a narrative structure suggestive of the court room. In the context 
of relating her own life stories, Faranda re-answers questions that were put to her 
during her trials, specifically those relative to her accusation of Germano Maccari. 
The incorporation of the interview format echoes the legal cross-examinations but 
structures the narration as alternate testimony. For, by displacing History as the 
protagonist of the Brigate Rosse’s story and making herself the protagonist, the 
narrator can redimension that History. And by relating her involvement with the 
Brigate Rosse in the context of individual history rather than Italian history, 


De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman 285 


Faranda’s story becomes a reevaluation of, if not outright rebuttal to, the 
dehumanized, monstrous identities assigned to her by official Italian history. The 
testimonial format is indeed an invitation to a “people’s trial,” for the reader is left 
to play the part of jury, and allow or disallow the restructuring of identity. 

In the pages she writes, Faranda wishes to justify her violence by claiming that 
she chose the /otta armata in the name of humanity. She then casts that concern for 
humanity as an inherent extension of her “nature” as a mother. Thus, she summons 
her femaleness in the form of motherhood as the link that leads her to political 
violence as a means of defending the helpless. In fact, in her narration, Faranda 
inscribes her decision to unite with the Brigate Rosse with her concern for the 
children she meets in Gela during the summer of 1971 when she participates there 
in demonstrations protesting the dangerously polluted factories. 


. partiamo convinti che stiano per esplodere a catena moti insurrezionali . . . 
Eppure Gela restera sempre nei miei occhi, gli alberi disseccati dai fetori velenosi 
dell’ Anic, i colori impuri, il mare stravolto. 

Ho portato Alexandra con me, ha soltanto otto mesi e l’argento vivo addosso. La 
scruto in continuazione . . . perché ho paura. Fino a che punto posso coinvolgerla 
nelle mie scelte? E se ne compromettessi la salute? .. . le mie ansie di madre mi 
incitano a ripartire. . . . 

In fondo sono fortunata, penso, io posso. Posso infilarle il capotto e lasciare Gela, 
insieme ai suoi veleni. 

Ma so che non é una scelta né una soluzione, che nei suoi vicoli chiari di terra 
restano ancora gli altri suoi bambini, quelli che non hanno scelto . 

I loro sguardi d’ombra si sono prepotentemente annidati nel fondo del mio cuore. 
E come se mi ammonissero a non dimenticarli, e nelle mie scelte successive ci 
saranno sempre. . . . Rivedo [i bambini] mentre si aggirano tra baracche di tufo 
senza fogne . . . non hanno ancora quattordici anni e gia scorrazzano in piccole 
bande. . . . Il loro futuro é la violenza, il loro presente ne é impregnato. Ma si puo 
fare qualcosa, mi ripeto, e alla violenza che ci tiene in serbo il destino é possibile 


e necessario contrapporre. 
(49-51) 


The imagery of the dying trees and the ocean suffocated by pollutants from the 
factory is emblematic of the abuses of the capitalist system against which Faranda 
decides to fight, for the factory’s destruction of the planet replicates its exploitation 
of people. By incorporating images of contaminated nature, Faranda implies that 
social injustice threatens to poison the world and thus her decision to fight back is 
an act of self-preservation. She extends her concern for — and compulsion to ensure 
— her own child’s safety into concern for all children, and thus all people, who are 
being slowly killed by the current social conditions. The children of Gela represent 
all of the oppressed masses she decides to defend. Indeed, Faranda’s repeated 
appeals to aspects of her female identity to explain her decision to join the very 
Organization which would require a suppression of that identity, and her refusal to 


286 Marie Orton 


subsume her femaleness to her role as political subversive results in constant 
tension. 

Faranda’s creation of her maternal role both incorporates and runs counter to 
the traditional mother-discourse. The construction of the brigatista-identity depends 
upon the characterization of the mother-identity, for the narrator uses her 
motherhood to justify her politics, and also uses her dedication to her political 
ideals as proof that she is a fit mother. The narrator minimizes the biological aspect 
as well as the nurturing aspect of her maternal role, and instead casts motherhood 
as a natural, irresistible bond with her child, a tie that transcends distance and 
remains intact though she is separated from her daughter for over 15 years. Thus, 
her personal commitment to Alexandra is her motherhood. Faranda’s representation 
of her maternal drive resembles and even expands the Kristevean model of the pre- 
Symbolic dependence of the child on the mother, for Faranda is as compelled to 
seek out her child as Alexandra is to seek for her mother and both are willing to 
transgress “paternal” laws in order to meet:* Faranda repeatedly violates the rules 
of BR “clandestinita” to telephone and visit her daughter, and Alexandra regularly 
skips school to see her mother during her years in prison, actions for which both are 
reprimanded but which they continue to pursue nonetheless. In this way, Faranda’s 
construction of motherhood subverts the traditional model that E. Ann Kaplan has 
named “motherhood as servant to patriarchy” (33). 

In Adrienne Rich’s classic Of Woman Born, which traces motherhood as 
institution vs. experience, she underscores the contradiction inherent in 
contemporary Western representations of motherhood: the mother is either 
negligent or irreproachable. Faranda’s construction of motherhood and affirmation 
of her and Alexandra’s mutual loyalty are designed to set the narrator squarely on 
the side of the non-negligent, and therefore morally acceptable, mother but without 
sacrificing her autonomy or power. Faranda’s formulation of motherhood represents 
what Brenda O. Daly and Maureen T. Reddy term a “dialogic” (both/and) as 
opposed to “monologic” (either/or) brand of motherhood (5). So while Faranda 
commits the cardinal maternal sin by surrendering her child to be raised by another 
(Faranda’s own mother), and placing her own political aspirations before the 
nurturing of her child, she creates a mother-model that allows for the “both/and” of 
pursuing her political objectives as well as maintaining a positive and profound 
relationship with her daughter. And finally, Faranda’s invention of motherhood 
twists the convention of the maternal self-sacrifice and serves to verify her political 
convictions — rather than sacrificing herself for her child, Faranda sacrifices raising 
her child in the name of a political program to better the world; thus, her “maternal” 
sacrifice is to sacrifice her maternal role. Not only does this sacrifice confirm 
Faranda’s devotion to the Cause, but by association with the mother-discourse that 


4 1 draw this characterization of Julia Kristeva’s model of mother drives from Butler’s 
discussion of the same (79-82). 


De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman 287 


sees motherhood as inherently good, Faranda also implies a validation of that Cause 
in the name of her sacrifice. 


Anna Laura Braghetti and Francesca Mambro 

In her late adolescence, Anna Laura Braghetti joined Lotta Continua, and through 
that organization met Bruno Seghetti in 1975. Two years later, Seghetti enlisted her 
help in finding an apartment for the Brigate Rosse. During the six months preceding 
the capture of Aldo Moro, Braghetti worked full-time (though not underground, 
clearly), for the Brigate Rosse, and together with another BR member known under 
the alias “il Signor Altobelli,” eventually provided the Organization’s “cover” for 
the 55 days while Moro was sequestered. After Moro’s death and until her arrest in 
May of 1980, Braghetti continued to work full-time with the Brigate Rosse, though 
without ever going underground as a regolare. She was sentenced to life in prison 
for her participation in the kidnapping of Aldo Moro, and for the attempted 
homicide of Vittorio Bachelet; in 1994 she was granted day release, and will be 
eligible to be considered for parole in the year 2005. 

In 1974, at age fifteen, Francesca Mambro joined the local branch of the neo- 
fascist Movimento Sociale (MSI), out of what she calls her “spirito di 
contraddizione,” and for her sense of familial attachment to other young people 
already involved in the /otta armata on the Right (Zavoli 436). By her own report, 
Mambro claims that she participated in violence, not to change the world, but to 
exact justice from an unjust State. After three years in the MSI, she helped found 
the group NAR together with Valerio Fioravanti, whom she later married. Over the 
next five years, Mambro participated in multiple actions headed by the NAR, 
including armed robbery and the assassinations of judge Mario Armato, and three 
officers of the federal police force (DIGOS). In 1982, Mambro was severely 
wounded during an attempted bank robbery, and later arrested at the hospital where 
her companions left her. In 1987, she plead guilty to and was convicted on eight 
counts of homicide; she was also deemed responsible and sentenced for the 
bombing of the Bologna train station in 1980, a charge to which she plead innocent, 
and she continues to deny the NAR’s responsibility for the bombing. She was 
condemned to eight life sentences, and is currently imprisoned in the Rebibbia 
prison in Rome. 

Nel cerchio della prigione is a combination of personal essays (two by 
Braghetti and two by Mambro), excerpts from Braghetti’s diaries, and a series of 
nearly one hundred letters that the two women exchanged from 1993 through 1995. 
When I interviewed Braghetti in September 1996, she explained that she and 
Mambro decided to write a book together not as an exploration of the carceral 
world or of the /otta armata, but primarily as an affirmation of their friendship 
which had begun when both were at the Rebibbia prison in 1988. Braghetti pitied 
Mambro’s isolation, “l’unica ‘nera’ fra tanti ‘rossi,’ and Mambro responded to 
Braghetti’s ready, listening ear. At their own request, Braghetti and Mambro were 
cellmates for five years, a period that Braghetti referred to as an island of peace, 


288 Marie Orton 


harmony, and personal growth. She insisted that their book was not written with the 
intent to undo their monsterized public images and cast themselves in a positive 
light to the Italian public, but admitted that this was an unplanned side effect. 

However, despite Braghetti’s claims, their narrative is an assault on the 
protagonists’ demonized public personae, as well as an interrogation of the 
discourse that divides and genders the realms of public and private. The work of 
Graziella Parati, Sidonie Smith, and Carole Pateman investigates the cultural 
construction of public space as male-superior and private space as female-inferior 
in terms of the construction of “‘self’ in women’s autobiography and how the very 
act of a woman writing her “private” story necessarily transgresses those 
distinctions (Parati; Smith; Pateman). The slogan made famous during the women’s 
movement, “the private is the political,’ has special resonance in the context of 
Mambro and Braghetti’s text, which politicizes the personal realm by offering a 
public rewriting of its authors’ personal/political identities; and by publicly 
privatizing their “terrorist” identities, the private is remade into the political. 
Barbara Kosta has explored how women autobiographers employ non-traditional 
forms of narrative emplotment in order to construct “counter fictions” of identity 
and thus “resist total inscription by cultural practices that have denied diverse 
modes of identities” (15). Like Faranda, Braghetti and Mambro attempt to construct 
a “counter fiction” of female identity that does not make femaleness and political 
violence oppositional, and they use a hybrid form to communicate this hybrid 
identity. 

Mambro and Braghetti’s text melds together three conventional 
autobiographical forms — personal essay, diary, and letters — into a double-voiced 
narrative in which each woman speaks her own and her friend’s story. This blurring 
of self-referentiality and ventriloquism problematizes the concept of “private” space 
in several ways. First, while the intimacy and correlative self-revelation in the 
exchanges between the two women create a private space, this space is subsequently 
suspended within the public space of the text, thus bending the boundaries and 
construction of public and private. Second, the three genres themselves bleed into 
one another, and pendulate between the private arena of the two women’s friendship 
and public space of the text; for example, the personal essays read like letters from 
the authors addressed to the reader, while the letters — particularly Mambro’s — take 
on the form of diaries recounting the minutia of her days and feelings, and the 
excerpts from Braghetti’s diary that are inserted at the mid-point of the book 
become personal essays. Third, the fact that Braghetti’s diary entries are dedicated 
exclusively to her impressions and descriptions of Mambro reverses the 
conventional notion of diary as self-exposure and disturbs the convention of 
“private” space by expanding that space to include another person. The construction 
of “private” space in the text is rendered still more problematic by the fact that 
Mambro and Braghetti are polar opposites in both personality and political 
orientation. When her friends are surprised at her willingness to be Mambro’s 
friend, Braghetti defends herself, “mi pesa moltissimo essere scortese con 





De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman 289 


[Francesca] e parlarle non mi sembra una grossa defezione alla mia identita di 
comunista” (109). Braghetti’s self-defense stands as response not only to her 
compagne in Rebibbia, but also to the reading public. That she feels she must 
justify her “private” choices — to be friends with Mambro — to the “public” but 
unspoken accusation of political disloyalty puts a new twist on the “private-is- 
political” discourse, and further complicates the relationship between public and 
private spheres. 

The speaking of each others’ stories takes on still wider resonances, 
particularly in Braghetti’s construction of self as her diary becomes the means for 
de-monsterizing Mambro as well as her self. As she narrates in her diary the birth 
of her friendship with Mambro, Braghetti rejects Mambro’s media-produced 
identity of the “belva nera,” by describing her as protective, lonely, sensitive, and 
“una simpatica chiacchierona” (111); together they share exercise time and 
“goloserie,” private jokes and family sorrows. In revealing Mambro’s 
vulnerabilities and warmth, Braghetti casts herself in the role of kindly listener: “Se 
dovessi usare un’immagine per descrivere [Francesca] metterei una grande bocca, 
per me... un grande orecchio!” (111). Thus, in writing Mambro’s non-monstrous 
identity, Braghetti is simultaneously de-monsterizing her own. Her concern for 
Mambro counters Braghetti’s identity as “terrorist woman” by constructing a vision 
of herself as caretaker to those around her. Indeed, the fact that Braghetti-the- 
Communist can become best friends to Mambro, symbol per eccellenza of the 
“terrorismo nero,” confirms that female friendship overcomes all divisions, even 
political ideology. In addition, her friendship with Mambro becomes emblematic 
of her relationship to other women in the prison. 

For Braghetti, her narration of her connections with other women becomes the 
means of (re)constructing her demonized public persona and taking instead the role 
of nurturer and self-appointed big sister. Like Mambro, the other inmates call 
Braghetti “sister,” and she refers to them as her “sorelline” and occasionally as 
“figlie.” Her diary entries as well as her letters to Mambro chart her familial 
interactions with the other inmates: the women confide their problems to her, she 
cooks for them, and prepares birthday parties for them. Her friends reciprocate her 
concern; they help her prepare for visits from her family, they comfort her when 
prison authorities deny her requests, and when her marriage to Prospero Gallinari 
comes to an end. Female solidarity even reaches beyond the walls of the prison, for 
when two of her friends are released, Braghetti attends their weddings, prepares a 
baby shower, watches their children and hand makes gifts for the babies. The 
utopian undertones in Braghetti’s idealized descriptions of the imagined community 
formed by the female prisoners suggests an irony in Braghetti’s reconstruction: a 
sort of Utopia has been realized but it is not the political Utopia that was part of the 
BR project; rather, it is a private world which exists only in the space of the anti- 
utopia, the “closed circle” of prison. Braghetti’s recuperation of her “humane” 
identity is coextensive with the larger community of female inmates. This tendency 
in women’s autobiographical writings to define identity relationally has become a 


290 Marie Orton 


landmark in defining the genre; indeed Bella Brodzki and Celeste Schenk maintain 
that “self-definition in relation to significant others is the most pervasive feature of 
female autobiography” (8). Braghetti’s writings exemplify and involute the tradition 
of female autobiographers’ construction of self through relationships; in fact, 
coextensive with her own construction of self, she redefines others’ identities 
through their relationships to her. Her attempt to de-monster her own identity is 
inextricably connected to de-monsterizing all female militants, those of the 
“sinistra” as well as those of the “destra.” For Braghetti, female solidarity 
recuperates the “humanity” of all women who participated in the /otta armata, 
irrespective of political orientation. 


L’intera esperienza della lotta armata é stata fallimentare ma vorrei che venisse 
riconosciuta |’onesta delle persone che hanno bruciato la loro gioventu sull’altare 
dell’ideologia. Non voglio con questo giustificare alcunché, perd con un pizzico 
d’orgoglio e molta modestia sento il bisgono di dire che qualcosa di quegli anni va 
salvato: la buona fede di che ha fatto una politica dell’utopia e non del vantaggio 


personale. 
(60-61) 


Her testimony to female solidarity redraws all militant women, “rossi” and “neri,” 
first and foremost as good-hearted, dedicated women acting on personal and 
political convictions. In her recuperation of her own identity, Braghetti also 
redimensions theirs. In addition, her redimensioning carries a certain political 
punch: she suggests that these women are innocent of the more grievous political 
crimes, such as the corruption and self-advancement that she sees as the hallmark 
of mainstream Italian politics. 

Mambro traces her choice to found NAR to two things: the shooting of three 
of her friends by police officers, and her involvement with Valerio Fioravanti. 
Problematically, it is the latter element of the “terrorist woman myth” — namely, 
the image of the woman who turns terrorist out of her love for a man, and then 
remains subservient to him — that Mambro develops in order to reject the “female 
terrorist” stereotype as a whole. Mambro specifically and self -consciously employs 
her romantic relationship with Fioravanti to recuperate her female, and 
simultaneously, her political identity. Unlike Braghetti, for whom friendship with 
Mambro serves as the fundamental parameter for her reconstructed identity, 
Mambro subordinates that friendship to her relationship with Fioravanti. In this 
sense, Mambro’s portrayal of her friendship with Braghetti conforms to the 
traditional depictions of female friendship in Western literature. Tess Cosslett 
explains that female friendships are rarely set up as competition to heterosexual 
relations (5), rather female friendships tend to lead women toward acceptable 
traditional roles — wife and mother — and thus serve to “keep women in their 
place” (74). In all of her letters to Braghetti, Mambro foregrounds her relationship 
to Fioravanti. Out of the forty-five letters she writes to Braghetti, forty are 


De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman 291 


dedicated, at least in part, to her feelings for Valerio, which she couches in 
conventional romantic rhetoric: she says that she lives only for Valerio, and counts 
time only in terms of when she will see him next. She uses pet names to refer to 
him, and to herself (he is the “orso,” and she is “topolino”). Mambro conflates his 
identity with her own, and even inscribes letters to Valerio into her letters to 
Braghetti. She also writes to Braghetti for Valerio, signing her letters for both 
herself and her husband, often with the term “i lovers.” By casting herself as 
devoted wife and lover, Mambro rewrites her media-identity of the “belva con occhi 
di ghiaccio,” and “la passionaria nera.” For example, Mambro’s description of the 
day they spend in court in Venice transforms the trial into a lover’s trip: 


Arrivai a Venezia con un passo turistico! Dovevano processarci per una rapina . . 
. capii che Valerio si trovava gia nei paraggi. . . . ’emozione la sentivo risalire dalle 
ginocchia. Entrai nel palazzo del tribunale e i suoi occhi verdi si muovevano 
agilissimi . . . ed incontrando i miei si fermarono raggianti e potevo sentirli: “Ehi, 
topolino, siamo ancora insieme, tu sei tutto, noi siamo tutto.” Io no so a quanto 
girasse il mio cuore e come ce |’ho fatta a raggiungere la panca dove ci si doveva 
sedere. . . 
Sulla laguna il sole scendeva con i toni rossi dell’autunno . . . Valerio mi vide 
improwvisamente tornare triste dopo che gli avevo sorriso e c’eravamo baciati a 
lungo. Diversamente da me lo stavano portando via con degli schiavettoni di ferro 
stretti intorno ai polsi e una catena. . . 
Amore mio, cosa siamo riusciti a fare alla nostra vita, davvero valeva cosi poco? 
(214-16) 


This juxtaposition of political trial with lovers’ holiday is perhaps the most salient 
demonstration of Mambro’s textual strategy to exchange woman-as-lover for 
woman-as-terrorist/monster. Here the trial is cast, not in terms of political 
punishment or civil judgement, but in terms of the “pena” of the lovers’ separation. 
Mambro’s rhetoric weaves together the distress of punishment with that of romantic 
love as she implicitly conflates “pena” (punishment) with “pena” (pain). Here the 
State becomes the monster, dragging Valerio away not because he committed 
crimes but to keep the two lovers apart. Thus love narrative and the prison narrative 
overlap, as Mambro shifts her own monsterized image onto the State and the prison, 
and assumes for herself the identity of lover. 

If Mambro’s recasting of self works to ameliorate the public image of monster 
through the private image of lover, it also runs the risk of succumbing to the 
stereotypical image of the terrorist woman as dependent on a male lover and locking 
the female terrorist in the prison of private space made feminine and subservient to 
the public (male) sphere of politics. To the extent that Mambro de-monsterizes 
herself in this way, she risks de-politicizing that self. However, Mambro not only 
rewrites her demonized identity by emphasizing that she is a devoted companion 
and lover, but she does so while rewriting what the roles of “companion” and 
“lover” mean within the context or space of the terrorist woman. First, she 


292 Marie Orton 


privileges the role of “lover” over that of “wife,” thus rejecting the domestic 
associations with the latter role. Indeed, she never once refers to herself as 
“moglie,” and only very rarely refers to Valerio as “marito,” rather she suggests a 
kind of equality by referring to herself and Valerio collectively as “i lovers.” And 
second, she inverts the hierarchy that is traditionally attributed to the romantic 
heterosexual relationship. In her narration of what it means to be a lover, it is 
Valerio that plays the supportive role to her, not vice versa. She is the militant, and 
he is her “compagno nella resistenza” (173). She is the strong one, he is the one 
who needs and depends on her (135). For example, after a court session in Rome, 
Mambro says that Valerio gives up, but she does not (178). Her narration of “wife” 
means she is the dominant character, both personally and politically. In fact, she 
claims that “la mia principale colpa giudiziaria é di essere stata . . . l' unica ragazza 
di destra che abbia scelto per se stessa un ruolo diverso da quello di riposo del 
guerriero o di fiancheggiatrice” (31). Conflating the “colpa” of transgressing the 
traditional wifely role and transgressing the law assigns a double implication to the 
adjective “giudiziaria,” making her acts criminal and social transgressions. 
Braghetti and Mambro’s text also attempts a rewriting of the stereotype of the 
“terrorist woman” inasmuch as it rewrites elements of the media-identity of a 
specific brigatista: Adriana Faranda. Their book is clearly in dialogue with 
Faranda’s. In a letter to Braghetti included in their story, Mambro refers to 
Faranda’s book, which was published while the other two women began theirs: “Ho 
dato un’occhiata alle recensioni su Faranda e ho capito perché all’idea della 
Mazzocchi per un libro a due storie ha detto che voleva restare nell’ombra. 
Parleremo anche di questo. Noi abbiamo piu coraggio e daremo il massimo” (125- 
26). The “massimo” they promise distinguishes itself from, and suggests a 
superiority to Faranda’s tell-all story which claims to disclose the details of her 
involvement — and other peoples’ — with the /otta armata, and especially in the 
kidnapping of Moro. Instead, their “massimo” means recounting the lacerations that 
result from the prison experience — the one subject that Faranda resolutely avoids 
in her story. Ironically, it is Braghetti and Mambro who are writing from the 
“ombra” of the prison, while Faranda is free; and they are the ones who never did 
“dire tutto” to the authorities in the courtroom, while again Faranda supposedly has. 
Furthermore, Braghetti strictly avoids naming directly the “quarto uomo,” or “il 
Signor Altobelli,” with whom she posed as cover for the apartment where Moro was 
sequestered. Neither Mambro nor Braghetti ever makes a single reference to 
Germano Maccari or to the trials in which Braghetti testifies during this period 
while they are also writing their book, a striking lacuna when compared to 
Faranda’s outright justification of her decision and inclusion of the court records in 
her story, and given that both Braghetti’s and Mambro’s letters are filled with 
details regarding every occasion in which Mambro must appear in court. Thus while 
both texts purport to reveal the suppressed counter-memory of official history, at 
the same time they develop a counter-memory of their own from their repressions 
of personal history. Though Faranda reveals Maccari’s identity, her revelation 


De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman 293 


represses details concerning the extent of her own and others’ involvement in the 
Moro assassination. In the case of Braghetti and Mambro, their voluntary self- 
censoring regarding the Moro case and Maccari’s trial is one way by which 
Braghetti (and by extension, Mambro) recuperate the political aspect of their 
identities: they offer themselves as an alternative to the Faranda model, who was the 
first to invent the “in-between” role of “dissociata” (as opposed to “pentita’’), but 
who collaborated to a certain extent with State authorities. Bearing in mind 
Foucault’s assertion that whoever remains silent maintains power over whoever 
speaks (History of Sexuality Vol. 2, 161-62), Braghetti’s self-imposed and very 
public silence suggests that she is a more valid model of brigatista and dissociata 
than is Faranda. 

Braghetti and Mambro also rewrite Faranda’s story in their own text by 
interrogating the discourse of apology Faranda’s narration initiates. Unlike Faranda, 
who openly declares to “aver sbagliato,” Mambro and Braghetti do not recant their 
own violence, quite the opposite. Whereas Faranda denounces her violent acts, 
specifically in terms of her role in the Moro case, by dedicating chapters to her 
conciliatory meeting with Aldo Moro’s daughter Maria, as well as her attempts to 
make contact with the families of Moro’s guards, and even selling her house and 
offering the money to those families as a gesture of sincere regret, Braghetti actually 
incorporates her violence into her identity to a degree: 


Spesso mi interrogo sul rimorso. Provo rimorso? No, pit! semplicemente provo solo 
dolore. Sono qui che vivo e altri, molti altri sono morti, sia coloro che andavano 


sotto la voce ‘amici’ sia coloro che inserivo sotto quella ‘nemici’. . . . Il vero 
esercizio di memoria é quello di ricordarmi del Caino che é in me. . . . Conosco il 
camnefice che ha mosso le mie idee e armato la mia mano e lo tengo sotto controllo. 

(6-7) 


And Mambro’s admission of her violence ostensibly accepts responsibility, though 
hedges on accepting blame: 


“E successo” é un termine ipocrita, le cose non succedono, c’é sempre qualcuno che 
le fa succedere, allora dovré raccontare cosa ho fatto io e cosa gli altri hanno fatto 
ame... . Non so se sono stata io ad attaccare gli altri o se sono stati gli altri ad 
attaccare me, di certo ero talmente giovane quando questa “avventura” 
(consentitemi di chiamarla cosi per semplicita) € cominciata che non dovevo essere 
mohojpericolosa perila societa nnd ncn AF poetic beet lira oe Hees BUR eem cl gaits 
Alla fine comprendiamo di aver sbagliato tutto o quasi: avevamo fatto 1 discorsi 


giusti nei posti sbagliati, alla gente sbagliata. 
(30-31; 50) 


Mambro qualifies her past not as a mistake, but as near error. By casting her 
violence solely in terms of ideology (“discorsi’”) Mambro sanitizes her violence, and 
puts it on par with the text, that is, with the text itself as a discourse. Naming the 


294 Marie Orton 


violence of her past an “avventura” is another manifestation of the same strategy: 
Mambro’s insistence on the centrality of her relationship with Fioravanti calls up 
the erotic definition of that term, which implies a superimposition of the private 
onto the political and collapses the distance between her autobiographical and 
terrorist acts. 

These three women write to justify their choices more than as an attempt to 

justify their violence. The narrations of Faranda, Braghetti, and Mambro place on 
re-trial the legitimacy of their identities and their violence. They write from the 
margins of society — in fact they initiated their texts while they were still in prison 
— and thus their attempts to recuperate their identities within the public space of 
a written text becomes a form of re-insertion into society. By creating alternate 
identities that conform, at least superficially, to aspects of traditional female roles 
— mother, sister, lover — these three women allow themselves to maintain aspects 
of their identities that are transgressive. They present their texts as means of 
accepting responsibility for their past, without apologizing for their politics. Rather, 
they insistently avoid psychological explanations for their actions, including 
monsterization, as a means of maintaining their political validity. Daniel Harris has 
noted the tendency to psychologize violence in the genre he terms “terrorism 
novels” in order to deny political legitimacy to acts of political violence: 


To systematically overlook the rational motivations of violent subversion, to wipe 
the slate of its origin in social realities, to siphon off its politics, and then, in turn, 
to allow psychology to rush into the vacuum that this procedure has created .. . 
should be viewed as a kind of political secret weapon to subvert the subversives by 
denying their actions the status of rational, purposeful behavior. 

(6) 


While all three authors are (re)writing personal stories, they rewrite at the same 
time the stories of other people and of official history itself. By owning their 
actions, Faranda, Braghetti, and Mambro endeavor to justify their politics. Both 
narratives attempt to rewrite the meaning of and to distance themselves from the 
image of monstrosity that those politics entailed. However, in rewriting the popular 
stereotype of the “female terrorist,” all three women “leave the conventional 
gendering of political violence essentially intact” (Greenhalgh 168), for the 
alternate identities they offer still maintain the dichotomy of woman as opposite of 
“terrorist,” and implicitly caters to the traditional image of woman as non-violent. 
Their femaleness is a two-edged sword that reveals their ambivalent relationship 
with their own violence, for while they invoke their femaleness as evidence of their 
humanity, at the same time, they rely on that “femininity” as a tool to affirm their 
status as politically dedicated activists. 


Brigham Young University 


De-Monsterizing the Myth of the Terrorist Woman 295 


Works Cited 


Allen, Beverly. “Terrorism Tales: Gender and the Fictions of Italian National Identity.” 
Italica 69 (Summer 1992): 161-76. 

Bocca, Giorgio. // terrorismo italiano 1970-1978. Milano: Rizzoli, 1979. 

Braghetti, Laura, and Francesca Mambro. Nel cerchio della prigione. Milano: Sperling & 
Kupfer Editori, 1995. 

Brodzki, Bella, and Celeste Schenck,, eds. Life /Lines: Theorizing Women's Autobiography. 
Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1988. 

Butler, Judith. Gender Trouble. New York: Routledge, 1990. 

Cooper, H. H. A. “Woman as Terrorist.” The Criminology of Deviant Woman. Ed. Freda 
Adler and Rita James Simon. Boston: Houghton Mifflin & Co., 1979. 

Cosslett, Tess. Woman to Woman: Female Friendship in Victorian Fiction. Atlantic Heights, 
NJ: Humanities Press International, Inc., 1988. 

Daly, Brenda O. and Maureen T. Reddy, eds. Narrating Mothers: Theorizing Maternal 
Subjectivities. Knoxville: U of Tennessee P, 1991. 

Della Porta, Donatella, ed. Terrorismi in Italia. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1984. 

Foucault, Michel. The History of Sexuality. Vol. 1. New York: Pantheon Books, 1978. 

. “Nietzche, Genealogy, History.” Language, Counter-Memory, Practice. Ed. and 
trans. Donald F. Bouchard. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1977. 

. “Truth and Power.” Power /Knowledge. Ed. and trans. Colin Gordon. New York: 
Pantheon Books, 1980. 

Georges-Abeyie, Daniel E. “Women as Terrorists.” Perspectives on Terrorism. Ed. 
Lawrence Z. Freedman and Yonah Alexander. Wilmington, DE: Scholarly Resources 
Inc., 1983. 

Greenhalgh, Susanne. “The Bomb in the Baby Carriage: Women and Terrorism in Modern 
Drama.” Terrorism and Modern Drama. Ed. John Orr and Dragan Klaic’. Edinburgh: 
UP, 1990. 

Harris, Daniel. “Fictional Terrorism: Psychology not Politics,’ Book Forum: An 
International Transdisciplinary Quarterly 7 (1986): 6-8. 

Kaplan, E. Ann. “Discourses of the Mother in Postmodern Film and Culture.” Westerly 4 
(December 1989): 24-34. 

Kosta, Barbara. Recasting Autobiography: Women’s Counterfictions in Contemporary 
German Literature and Film. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1994. 

Levinas, Emmanuel. Time and the Other. Trans. Richard A. Cohen. Pittsburgh: Duquesne 
UP, 1987. 

MacDonald, Ellen. Shoot the Women First. New York: Random House, 1991. 

Mazzocchi, Silvana. Nell'anno della tigre. La storia di Adriana Faranda. Milano: Baldini 
& Castoldi, 1994. 

Mickolus, Edward F. Terrorism 1980-87. Westport CT: Greenwood Press, 1988. 

. Terrorism 1988-1991. New York: Greenwood Press, 1993. 
. Terrorism. Washington D.C.: U.S. G.P.O, 1993. 


296 Marie Orton 


Morgan, Robin. The Demon Lover: On the Sexuality of Terrorism. New York: W.W. 
Norton, 1989. 

Norton, Augustus R. and Martin H. Greenberg. /nternational Terrorism: An Annotated 
Bibliography and Research Guide. Westview Special Studies in National and 
International Terrorism. Boulder: Westview Press, 1980. 

Orr, John, and Dragan Klaic’, eds. Terrorism and Modern Drama. Edinburgh: UP, 1990. 

Parati, Graziella. Public History, Private Stories: Italian Women’s Autobiography. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1996. 

Pateman, Carole. “Feminist Critiques of the Public /Private Dichotomy.” Public and Private 
in Social Life. Ed. S. I. Benn and G. F. Gaus. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1983. 

Prunckun, Henry W. Shadow of Death: An Analytic Bibliography on Political Violence, 
Terrorism, and Low-Intensity Conflict. London: Scarecrow Press, 1995. 

Rich, Adrienne. Of Woman Born: Motherhood as Experience and Institution. Princeton: UP, 
1980. 

Seymour, Janet. Terrorist and Insurgent Organizations. Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama: 
Air Force Library, 1996. 

Smith, Sidonie. A Poetics of Women’s Autobiography: Marginality and the Fictions of Self- 
Representation. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1987. 

. Subjectivity, Identity, and the Body: Women’s Autobiographical Practices in the 
Twentieth Century. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1993. 

Wager-Pacifici, Robin. The Moro Morality Play. Terrorism as Social Drama. Chicago: U 
of Chicago P, 1986. 

Weinberg, Leonard, and William Lee Eubank. The Rise and Fall of Italian Terrorism. 
Boulder: Westview Press, 1987. 

Zavoli, Sergio. La notte della repubblica. Milano: Mondadori, 1995. 


Graziella Parati 


The Legal Side of Culture: 
Notes on Immigration, Laws, and Literature in Contemporary Italy 


Perhaps more than any other, the “reality” of immigration 
is indeed a question of words. (Gérard Noiriel) 


In 1996, a group of beauty pageant judges awarded a black woman the title of Miss 
Italia. The ascension of Denny Mendez to the title provoked outraged reactions: 


They make us swallow anything in this country. Even a black Miss Italy. This beautiful girl 

will represent us all over the world for a whole year and there will be people who, not 

knowing geography very well, believe that all our girls are the color of chocolate. 
(Panorama 52) 


The editor’s reply to this letter manipulates the same language by inviting Donna 
Elvira, the author of the letter, to be ready for a “yellow” Miss Italy and points to 
the model of the national soccer teams in Europe. Presenting soccer teams as 
paradigms of a multiracial society seems to portray internationally accepted, and 
nationally internalized, stereotypes about Italians and their all-consuming passion 
for the national sport. If soccer teams are multiracial winning entities, why could not 
societies function in the same way? This cultural synecdoche is part of an equation 
that eloquently describes how representations of cultures are constructed and 
simplistically discussed even in political journals like Panorama. In fact, the 
editor’s reply to the racist remarks by Donna Elvira is an inadequate and misleading 
contribution to the public debate about a multiracial and multicultural Italy. 
Immigrants have attempted with varied success to present themselves in 
autobiographical acts that are narratives about immigrants and immigration. These 
narratives originated following the first immigration laws in Italy, define the way 
in which these laws function as pre-text and sub-text to many immigrants’ life 
stories. I will analyze how hybrid texts written by the immigrants supply new 
paradigms in the construction of immigrant identities that influence Italians’ and 
Italian writers’ constructions of otherness. This essay will survey a number of texts 
and explore connections between immigrants’ narratives, legal texts, and 
contemporary Italian culture, without focusing on any specific migration 
experience. Donna Elvira reduces the discussion on diversity to very tangible terms: 
the fact that Miss Italia’s black body has to be swallowed by a white culture, which 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


298  Graziella Parati 


in turn becomes contaminated and can be seen from the outside as non white by 
“geographically challenged” people. She is worried that international observers do 
not have a clear territorial map in mind, a map that superimposes territorial 
divisions with racial identity, and that the body of a non-white woman has become 
the signifier of the present and the future of Italy. The discussion is, indeed, about 
bodies: the body of laws that regulate the presence of “others” in Italy, the visible 
presence of the other’s body in a country familiar with migration but not 
immigration, and the changing body of Italian culture. 

The first autobiographies by immigrants published in Italy are authored by 
people coming from Francophone areas — Morocco, Tunisia, and Senegal — and 
revolve around an important event in Italy: the creation and approval of the Martelli 
Law which attempted to regulate and regularize the presence of immigrants in Italy. 
The importance of the Martelli Law lies in the fact that it is the first complete 
corpus of laws dealing with the presence within Italy of people originating from 
countries outside the European community. Since 1955, the movement of European 
citizens within and between the Western European countries has been sanctioned 
by laws that first privileged the right to “free circulation” of workers and their 
families, and later, in 1990, extended that right also to students, unemployed, or 
retired people, as long as they do not become a burden to the host state. Since 
1993, European citizens can be employed in public administration positions, 
excluding those involving security issues (police, law, armed forces) in any of the 
European countries. This liberal migration of Europeans, sanctioned by the law, is 
accompanied by unsuccessful attempts to regulate the circulation of those 
immigrants from outside Unified Europe. Some of them privileged Italy as a 
country of migration because Italy did not have a history of immigration that had 
required the creation of exhaustive immigration laws. The first attempts to create 
such laws are marked by the adoption of the temporary solution of repeated 
sanatorie, that is, ad hoc attempts to deal with the so-called “illegal immigrants.” 
The Martelli Law (1990) contained normative regulations about “permessi di 
soggiomo” — that is, temporary visas for people already on Italian soil — but lacked 
an exhaustive program that looked at the future and at the migratory movements that 
would bring more people to Italy and Europe in general. In the thirties a 
“dichiarazione di soggiorno” was required of foreigners in Italy. The changing 
names of the documentation required by law highlights the shift from a construction 
of the stranger as an agent who can “declare” his or her presence to a passive entity 
that is “allowed” to remain in Italy. The Martelli Law therefore contains a 
contradiction: it has allowed many immigrants to shed their “illegal” identity, but, 
at the same time, they have been locked into a position of passivity that requires 
legal validation at set intervals in time. ' 


' The 1990 Martelli law hoped to address issues of political asylum, and access to and 
permanence on the Italian territory, and stateless people already in Italy. Political asylum is 
still not sanctioned in detail in Italy, as many of the decisions regarding immigration, only 


The Legal Side of Culture 299 


In immigrants’ autobiographies, the Martelli’s permessi di soggiorno signify 
the turning point in their identity construction as alien residents in Italy who obtain 
a partial right to visibility. These early autobiographies describe the use of “fogli 
di via,” annulled by the Martelli law. “Fogli di via” were deportation orders that the 
police used to hand immigrants and which contained their immediate expulsion 
from Italy. Pap Khouma’s Jo, venditore di elefanti (I Am an Elephant Salesman, 
1990) describes the paradox inherent in handing illegal immigrants an order to leave 
Italy. Many immigrants would never travel with their legal identity documents. That 
allowed them, when stopped by the police who patrolled the city and the beaches 
for illegal vendors, to declare a fake identity. The result was that the orders of 
expulsion were treated as slips of paper to be trashed as soon as the immigrants 
were released from the police station. These “orders” also created a bureaucratic 
narrative of nonexistent identities that declared the collapse of legal control over the 
legibility of otherness. Texts are at the center of this game of allowing, forbidding, 
expelling, and granting the right to occupy space on the Italian territory. 

In Khouma’s case, the texts of the law created over his body is the pre-text and 
sub-text to an autobiographical act that talks back to the legal narrative. Khouma’s 
nomadic identity, which takes him from Senegal to the Ivory Coast, to France, and 
then to Italy, is described in a text that celebrates his right to construct his own life 
story. At the same time, he wants to stress the limitations of regulating legal 
practices that deal with monolithic entities. Knouma wants to fragment the entity 
“immigrant” into embodiments and practices of difference that disavow “concepts 
of wholeness, essence, and origin” (Prakash 11). Khouma describes an experience 
with a community of traveling salesmen that is both his private story and the history 
of a community of immigrants. This temporary activity changes into different roles 
for Khouma and his friends, whose individual diversity seems to be constantly 
redefined, and underlines the “fragmentation among the ‘others’” that is erased in 
the legal narratives (Prakash 3). If the official legal text inscribes the effacement of 
the immigrant subject in contemporary Italian culture, Khouma, and many other 


temporary solutions are made as in the 1991 dispositions that introduce the concept of 
“humanitarian asylum” for people from the former Yugoslavia and from Somalia. These 
dispositions follow the Martelli decree expanding list of the countries whose citizens might 
require asylum in Italy. The 1987 first corpus of immigration laws had already introduced 
some of the changes that the Martelli law developed in a more systematic way: the right of 
equal treatment for immigrants as workers but not an equal access to employment with 
Italians. Access to the job market was allowed only when authorized. Immigrant workers and 
their families in Italy had access to the health services, if resident in Italy, and the worker 
had the right to be joined by the family from the motherland. Furthermore, this 1987 law 
began to delegate power to the various regions so that administrative local laws could deal 
with immigration problems particularly relevant to a specific geographical area in Italy. 


300 Graziella Parati 


immigrant writers like him, try to exert power by becoming agents, authors of their 
public representations of the “‘contingency’ of cultural difference” (Bhabha 327). 
Khouma tells of his brief permanence in France, his unfriendly encounters with 
other Senegalese, already established in France, who see new immigrants as a 
source of problems. He tells of his decision to reject the ex-motherland, his 
migration to an “other” Western country, and his acquisition of Italian as the 
language in which to redefine his life. This mobility, which places Khouma at the 
intersection of different cultural practices, is based on his desire to exert authority 
over his life, that is, to “author” his life. Khouma’s Jo, venditore di elefanti is the 
only life narrative of an immigrant that becaine a bestseller in Italy. His mobile, 
fragmented life succeeded in achieving visibility in the Italian public sphere, which 
in turn translated into his increased visibility in the Senegalese community in Italy; 
Khouma is now its national representative. However, Khouma’s agency and success 
in “talking back” to the overcodification of his identity can only be temporary, as 
new legal texts are written over the bodies of the immigrants and new counter- 
narratives must be articulated. 

The Martelli law instituted the concept of “centri di accoglienza” for 
immigrants. But they were rarely built, or if they existed, were barely functioning. 
In this regard, one must consider Italy’s unique history among the industrialized 
countries in the world. In the sixties, when more northern European countries 
started to attract workers that contributed to the development of industrial 
production, Italy remained on the sidelines, feeding the assembly lines with people 
coming from an internal migration, from south to north. In addition, Italy was 
unprepared to deal with the influx of immigrants in the eighties and nineties because 
even its history of colonization had not initiated the large migration from Africa that 
is characteristic of other European countries.” Those centers created decades ago 
in other countries to “deal” with the immigrants simply do not exist in Italy, which 
furthermore seems unable to draw and learn from other countries’ experiences with 
immigration. Mohsen Melliti’s Pantanella. Canto lungo la strada (Pantanella: A 
Song along the Road, 1992) exposes the contradiction inherent in prescriptive laws 


* Italy also does not have definitive laws concerning political asylum in Italy. During the 
recent emergency situation in the former Yugoslavia, Italy employed the temporary formula 
of “humanitarian asylum,” that allowed refugees to enter Italy. This experience is narrated 
by Jadranka Hodzic who, before committing suicide on a beach in Rimini, left two short 
narratives that describe the impossibility of surviving, leaving war behind, and assimilating 
into a context in which she will always feel an outsider. Her death symbolizes the tension 
between the desire for living in a peaceful environment and the impossibility of leaving 
Sarajevo behind. She killed herself facing, from the Adriadic coast, the invisible border of 
her divided country (Jadranka Hodzic, “L’altra parte dell’ Adriatico.”). 


The Legal Side of Culture 301 


that cannot be translated into practice by the same people who created them. 
Pantanella, which tells of an abandoned pasta factory, is the visible countertext to 
the invisibility of the “centri di accoglienza.” In Melliti’s book the pasta factory 
Pantanella represents the international symbol of Italianness appropriated, occupied, 
and redefined by immigrants. While Khouma’s text could have a partial happy 
ending, Melliti’s autobiographical fiction is grounded on the impossibility of 
“getting away” with cultural appropriation. The pasta factory is evacuated, and in 
an apocalyptic scene, burned down by the agents of public order, who are 
translators into practice of legal narratives. In his story Khouma embodies the 
mediator or diplomat between the immigrants and the Italians. He never employs 
the word “racism” in his discussion of life among Italians in an attempt to direct 
readers’ response to the story of his life. Violence appears as a moment of 
transition, defused by the humorous tone employed to describe the fights among the 
different groups of street vendors and the offensive propositions of Italian 
homosexuals. Italy is mainly portrayed as the cultural and linguistic space in which 
he succeeded in translating his life into a narrative. “As people say in my country,” 
writes Khouma “if you can narrate something, it means that it brought you luck” 
(Khouma 143). Melliti, instead, denounces the open discrimination practiced by 
Italians and the police and strongly states that only severed connections can be the 
immigrants’ practice in Italy. His severed connections are temporary attempts to 
establish a link, a shared narrative of understanding, that is destined to fail and to 
threaten the survival of the “other.” Melliti’s characters can only fail in creating 
connections with the native Romans who are unable to understand what being a 
citizen of la Pantanella means. Even love/sexual relationships can only be 
temporary because the separation between white and non-white, western and 
non-western in not permeable and a final separation is inevitable. Melliti’s text does 
not narrate Khouma’s luck, or survival, but rather ends with the destruction of the 
Pantanella. The destruction of a temporary space of belonging prompts the suicide 
of one of the main characters. The open ending of Khouma’s text, which projects 
toward the future, is followed two years later by Melliti’s pessimistic closure of his 
narrative, which declares the impossibility of survival. 

This apocalyptic vision of the future of multicultural Italy is shared by Italian 
intellectuals. In his book Una politica per gli immigrati (1996), Guido Bolaffi 
highlights the fact that in Italy “tutto nasce e si esaurisce con |’emergenza” (18). 
Everything does indeed begin and end with emergency decrees that never look at 
future migrations to Europe and Italy in particular. Bolaffi invites politicians to 
create flexible policies that can take into consideration the often unpredictable 
changes in migratory fluxes and to create quotas that can be matched by objective 
demands of the market in Italy. The second part of his proposition is, I think, rather 
idealistic. If immigration is not stopped before the movement from the country of 
origin begins, it is impossible to regulate the entrance through the many “flexible” 
borders of Italy and Europe. In a 1996 dossier on immigration, Luigi Di Liegro, 
director of Caritas and well known by immigrants for his “‘in the field” intervention 


302 Graziella Parati 


on their behalf, states that a real “migratory policy is one able to connect country 
of departure and of arrival.” Liegro also criticizes both the language and the results 
of the many laws issued so far that tend to “criminalize a social phenomenon” (9). 

The criminalized act of crossing borders is eloquently described in poetry by 
the Argentinean Inés Ventura, who in “Timbri” (Validations 1995) tells of the act 
of “chiedere scusa,” of apologizing for the inevitability of one’s migration. It is also 
narrated by Aura Pieleanu Paraschivescu, who in “Frontiere” (Borders, 1995) 
describes the act of crossing borders and of her interrogation by Italians who want 
precise answers to their questions about her origins, her previous life, her intentions. 
Yousseff Wakkas articulates the process of criminalization of the “other” in a short 
story entitled “Io Marokkino con due Kappa” (1995), which is divided into three 
long sections. The first is a letter to a woman with whom the protagonist has had a 
child. In the letter written from prison, the Moroccan protagonist explains that in 
trying to survive in Italy as an illegal immigrant, he purchased documents that 
supplied him with a new identity. Unfortunately, the new identity belonged to a 
person connected to drug-related crimes. Consequently, the protagonist ended up 
in jail, arrested because he has now become another “other” and that other is a 
criminal. This fluidity in the acquisition of a public identity contains the inevitable 
uncertainties that “another” name can hide. It mocks, as a process, the interpretation 
of immigration as an entity of interchangeable bodies, cultures, and customs. This 
mass of unreadable others fragments itself in Wakkas’s text and painfully reveals 
the private stories of a subaltern other. 

The central section of the story tells of the protagonist’s long trip from 
Morocco, and the exaggerated tales of Italy he heard from those who came back to 
Morocco. He reaches the Swiss border and is ready to attempt to cross into Italy but 
he is swindled first by a Polish man who only leads him to another Swiss village, 
and then by an Algerian. The Algerian man adopts the same discriminating rhetoric 
used against the “mass” of immigrants: he weaves a tale of sameness between the 
newly arrived Moroccan and his own Algerian origin. However, he is attempting to 
relieve the Moroccan of his last coins. When the Moroccan realizes that he has been 
forced into the position of the victim, he reacts by fighting and overcoming his 
opponent. The Swiss police appear as onlookers, interested in intervening only if 
they find that these others are trying to remain in Switzerland, but the police 
withdraw once they see them moving toward the border. 

However, the narrative of the Moroccan man cannot change, no matter what 
side of the border he is on. “Io, Marokkino con due Kappa” also contains a 
revealing subplot that connects the ventriloquized text with the narrator and the 
writer, who is a Syrian man currently in prison. This articulation of his life through 
another man’s story represents an attempt to create autobiographical fiction that 
places the ventriloquized self and the other at the same time at the center of the 
narrative. The identity of the immigrant thus created partakes of a communal 
experience as other, as immigrant, but at the same time invokes the need to talk 
about immigrant subjects through the ventriloquized voice of silent others. In his 


The Legal Side of Culture 303 


book Jmmigrato (1990), Salah Methnani talks of the need to shape an identity 
connected to the new cultural context of immigration. He describes his discovery 
that his ability to express himself correctly in Italian makes him suspicious in the 
eyes of the Italians, who prefer to see him as part of the inarticulate crowd of 
immigrants. He hides his university education in foreign languages and searches for 
another acceptable self. Paradoxically, he finds it by turning himself into a 
stereotype, a Tunisian junkie, who feeds his habit by pushing drugs, criminalizing 
his otherness that had already been criminalized in the eyes of the natives. 

The imbrication of many texts — such as legal, autobiographical, fictional, 
journalistic, and oral narratives that feed into each other — portrays cultural 
developments in an Italophone context (Prakash 12). Italophone texts are marginal 
texts even though they cannot quantitatively be defined as such. They remain at the 
margin of Italian cultural practices; but at the same time their underground influence 
is directly and indirectly felt in other narratives connected to the failures and 
inadequacies of the 1992 immigration laws, and the subsequent Decreto Dini 
(1995). The 1992 laws regulate the acquisition of citizenship and the possibility of 
double citizenship. The regulation of citizenship status in Italy becomes with this 
1992 law clearly grounded on both the ius soli and the ius sanguinis. Such a legal 
debate over official national identities rekindled in 1992 another debate over the 
status of Italian immigrants in the world. However interesting, this debate displaced 
attention from pressing issues at hand to focus on the generations of hyphenated 
Italians, Italian Americans, Italian Australians, Italian Canadians, to name a few. 
This issue occupied the press for a long time and removed public attention from the 
inefficiency of both law and regulation makers in facing the question of 
immigration. 

There is another side to this distracting debate that shifts attention from the 
visible bodies of the “others” within the national boundaries to the invisible bodies 
of the “same” who left Italy during the migration fluxes from Italy to the Americas 
and Northern Europe. In Italian cultural history there are a number of repressed 
historical narratives, among them the history of Italian migration and of Italian 
colonialism. More than a repression, it is a denial of very recent memories, as the 
copious narratives that describe Italian “otherness” in migration have been, I think, 
deliberately ignored and left in an “original,” illegible language, so that they could 
not “‘imbricate” the culture of the motherland. In his book /talian Signs, American 
Streets: The Evolution of Italian American Narrative, Fred Gardaphé describes the 
various phases in Italian American acts of “breaking and entering” into American 
culture (Gradaphé 1). His description of the Italian minority’s access into the 
cultural mainstream as a criminal act that develops into “cultural crimes” connects 
the hidden face of Italian culture with the ongoing criminalization of migration to 
Italy. I would argue that this link between the two Italies — the Italy of both 
immigration and migration — must not be broken because it offers a way to read 
recent migration issues in Italy. 

The connection between immigration and migration produces new meanings 


304 Graziella Parati 


assigned to the experiences shared between “other” and “same” in contemporary 
Italy. Gardaphé tells of a first group of Italian American writers, mainly men, who 
often, through collaboration with an American native speaker, managed to construct 
autobiographies and autobiographical texts that “emerged to document the Italian 
American experience and create a literary tradition out of a strong oral tradition” 
(Gardaphé 28). These texts which narrate the self and the stories of family 
members, construct a history of the migration of a community that is attempting to 
come to terms with its own difference and the demands of assimilation. The fact that 
Saidou Moussa Ba’s La promessa di Hamadi (1991) begins with a chant that 
originates from the oral tradition of the Griot, eloquently reveals the connections 
between two apparently different migrations: one that wrote and one that is now 
writing the history of their nomadism by adopting similar narrative strategies. 
The most evident difference in immigrant narratives in Italy and in Italian from 
those compiled by Italians in the US is that the recent migrant texts in Italian by the 
immigrants break away from the separations between generations. Gardaphé, 
Beolhower, and Sollors describe the progression from narratives centered around 
strictly autobiographical themes to autobiographical fiction. To quote Sollors, 
“ethnic writing” moves from “folk and popular forms to high forms,” “from lower 
to higher degrees of complexity” (241). In a truly postmodern move, a first 
generation of immigrants in Italy have created a corpus that simultaneously contains 
testimonies, autobiographies, autobiographical fiction, and poems in Italian. The 
difference between Italian American and Italophone narratives lies in the historical 
contexts in which these two literatures developed. The emergence of Italophone 
texts is a process that has taken only a few years, while the process of the 
acquisition of a new language and literary skills spans a couple of Italian American 
generations. Even the stereotypes used against Italian Americans have resurfaced 
in the Italian daily press as charges against today’s immigrants to Italy: “If the 
Italian was not seen as a gangster or a knife-wielding, mustachioed foreigner who 
had taken away American jobs from the earlier immigrants, then he was depicted 
as ‘a restless, roving creature, who disliked the confinement and restraint of mill 
and factory,’ ‘very slow to take to American ways,’ ‘volatile, and incapable of 
effective team work’”’(56). Nassera Chohra’s Volevo diventare bianca (1993) 
inscribes the portrayal of “mustachioed difference” in her narrative that tells of a 
young child’s desire to assimilate and pass as white and of the patriarchal 
oppression. The mustachioed foreigner that defines his recognizable difference 
highlighted by Gardaphé, becomes in Chohra’s narrative the sign of a culture, the 
symbol of a virility, she is often accused of attempting to erase by embracing 
western values that threaten the religious beliefs upheld by her Muslim family. 
Chohra, a second generation Algerian in France, displaces her concerns from a 
French to an Italian context by living in Italy and writing in Italian. Her writing 
connects concerns that belong to different generations of immigrants and stresses 
the impossibility of discussing migration issues from a literary, social, and legal 
point of view without connecting the discourses created in different national 


The Legal Side of Culture 305 


contexts. 

The issue of religious identity was much debated by Italian-Americans who 
were confronted with the need to appropriate space within the space of religious 
practice that traditionally belonged to the Irish. Differences between Italian and 
Irish Catholicism generated tensions that often metaphorically and physically 
banished Italian-American to the basements of Irish churches. Article eight of the 
Italian Constitution states: “All religions are considered equally free under the law. 
Religions other than Catholicism have the right to organize according to their own 
rules, in so far as they do not go against Italian law. Their relationship with the State 
is regulated by laws based on agreements with their representatives.” Mohamed 
Bouchane’s Chiamatemi Ali (1990) tells of a very religious Moroccan who resists 
Italians’ attempts to rename him, that is christen him, with an Italian name, Mario, 
and decides to adopt a name that would be easy to pronounce in Italian, but at the 
same time, a name that does not assign a Christian identity to him.’ Bouchane 
narrates how difficult it is for him to remain a Muslim as the charity received by 
Italian organizations often has the hidden purpose to convert him. His experience 
outlines the separation between the Law and its translation into practice as what is 
theoretically unconstitutional becomes common practice. The contemporary 
effacement of immigrants in Italy feeds itself on the same language employed 
against Italian Americans whose life stories have rarely been translated back into 
Italian language and the culture that lacks, or has erased, traces from the dislocated 
tradition of Italian migration. This emphasis on sameness between what are now 
considered the dominant and the subordinate groups in Italy is an invitation to 
confront the “denial of memory” on the part of Italians so that Donna Elvira’s 
nightmarish swallowing of difference needs to be historicized in a narrative that 
places difference already within the body of the nation. 

Italian culture is also marked by the absence of texts that narrate the colonial 
experience from the point of view of the colonized. Writers such as Erminia 
dell’Oro, Alfredo Antonaros, Ennio Flaiano, or even the outrageously orientalist 
Emanuelli have supplied narratives of colonization filtered through the eyes of the 
transgressive colonizer. The February 1997 issue of Nigrizia announces that two 
historians, the English Ian L. Campbell and the Ethiopian Degife Kabré Sadik, are 
uncovering the truth about Graziani’s order to slaughter 1,600 people in Ethiopia 
following a murder attempt on his life. At the same time, Graziani’s native town is 
planning to create with public funding a museum dedicated to its famous 
Maresciallo, the “butcher” of Ethiopia.* However, these blatantly rejected memories 


3 Even in Italian-American literature, writers underline the pressure in the New World to 
convert. See Barolini, Umbertina. 

“ Graziani became governor of Ethiopia after its conquest in 1936. On the museum destined 
to celebrate Graziani, see the journal Nigrizia February, 1997. 


306 Graziella Parati 


cannot be completely repressed and emerge in fragments, awakened by the 
narratives of immigrants whose culture was marked by English and French 
colonialism. These immigrant writers have inscribed into their Italian narratives 
their Francophone and Anglophone past. In a short story entitled “Nel cuore di un 
clandestino,” Saidou Moussa Ba performs the act of combining present and colonial 
past by describing the life of an immigrant who sleeps in Milano’s Central station 
and, in an autobiographical move, memories of his father who fought for the French 
colonizers in Vietnam and died for same “motherland” that has impoverished the 
colony (Ba, “Nel cuore di un clandestino,” 16-22). Ba’s unnamed main character 
tells of what is left for his mother to hold on to: worthless medals and loneliness as 
her children had to migrate to a Western country. 

Following the emergence of colonial testimonies, the missing voices of the 
people from Italy’s ex-colonies now slowly begin surface and offer revealing texts 
about the internalization of the silence of history. Shirin Ramzanali Fazel, a 
Somalian woman who came to Italy in 1970, published her first book, Lontano da 
Mogadiscio (Far Away from Mogadishu), in 1994. Fazel’s text shares a space of 
silence with the Italian repression of colonial memory. Born after the Italian 
colonial period, Fazel focuses on the present and the war in her motherland and 
describes a mythical past in Somalia, marked by peaceful multiculturalism. As a 
writer, Fazel rejects close collaboration with an Italian in order to write her life. 
Italian is for her a familiar and familial language. It is in this knowledge of Italian 
culture and language of the “ex-motherland” that Fazel allows the colonial narrative 
to surface, but she also relegates it to the role of subplot. Ribka Sibhatu, who 
arrived in Italy to study at the University of Rome, tells in Au/o (1993) of her 
escape from an oppressed Eritrea, dominated by the Marxist Ethiopian regime. Her 
personal history of incarceration, struggle for freedom, and acquisition of both an 
education and a public voice steers away from any mention of a colonial past that 
ended before she was born. However, the missing colonial narrative is evidenced 
by its very absence. Fazel and Sibhatu surface as writers who perpetuate the silence, 
but it is their presence, their appropriation of a space in a national narrative, that 
supplies the missing link in contemporary history and invites further exploration. 

Porte chiuse (Closed Doors), the title of Luigi Perrone’s 1995 book on African 
immigrants in Italy, symbolizes the current legal strategies in dealing with 
immigration. Its title is in contrast to porte aperte (Open Doors), a well-known 
novel by Sciascia in which the death penalty is liberally debated. The connection 
between these two texts is not casual, as they both deal with issues grounded in 
violence. The textual legal violence attempts to regulate irrationally any migration 
to Italy and responds to the fear for those bodies we have “to swallow.” Daily 
debate during December 1996 was devoted to basic human rights issues concerning 
medical assistance, until the Ministro della Sanita Rosi Bindi reactivated the section 
in the expired Decreto Dini that guaranteed medical assistance in case of emergency 
or as a preventive measure. Of course, there is no mention by either Dini or Rosi 
Bindi if such services are free, leaving people to ad hoc interpretations that promote 


The Legal Side of Culture 307 


resentment toward the immigrants. In Jo, venditore di elefanti, Khouma documents 
how his health deteriorated in Italy, and how much his life as an immigrant caused 
maladies unknown before migration. In addition, acts of physical violence against 
the immigrants have been numerous, enough to prompt the creation of “urgent” 
laws against racial, ethnic, and religious discrimination. These 1993 laws declare 
the right to prosecute those who incite violence and who discriminate for racial, 
ethnic, or religious reasons. They forbid the constitution of any movement, 
association, or group that promotes discrimination and racial violence, and they 
increase the sentence for crimes inspired by racial hatred. Fifty-five years after the 
promulgation of the fascist racial laws, Italy has finally issued a complete legal text 
in opposition to the 1938 legal act discriminating against the Jewish minority in 
Italy, and legally penalizing miscegenation in Italy and in the Italian colonies. 
However, in today’s social construction of race in Europe the past cannot be 
completely erased. In February 1997, fifty French film directors signed a self- 
accusation, declaring that they have welcomed sans papier people in their homes. 
It is their response to the Debré bill that allows the legal prosecution of French 
people who give shelter to “illegal immigrants” whose presence must, by law, be 
reported to the police. This decree, that sadly echoes the 1941 French law that 
required people to report to the police the presence of Jews, uncovers the possibility 
of a frightening future. 

In debating the foundational issues dealing with immigration in Italy, it is the 
construction of a past and present historical Italian narrative that surfaces and posits 
questions concerning the relationship between Italian cultural identity and internal 
and external hybridizing influences. In the introduction to his book The French 
Melting Pot, Gérard Noirel argues that “Immigration can no longer be considered 
an issue that affects us from without; it must be understood as a problem that is 
internal to the history of contemporary French society” (xxvii) It appears that Italy 
is not looking ahead to the future created by the presence of immigrants in Italy. As 
a country with zero population growth, Italy will have to rely heavily on the new 
Italian citizens, without whom it would find itself in enormous financial problems 
in the future.” The debate, therefore, should be shifted from the demonization of a 
cultural and racial anabasis to a more organized plan for the future that is instead 
rarely discussed. There are, of course, precedents in neighboring countries that 
could teach Italian intellectuals and politicians. Charles Tilly summarizes the 
French situation: “A country whose fertility began to decline very early, France has 


> In an article in Repubblica, Feb. 14, entitled “Monorchio: abbiamo bisogno di 50.000 
immigrati l’anno,” Monorchio (Ragioniere generale dello Stato) stresses that “L’Italia ha 
bisogno di almeno 50.000 immigrati l’anno, perché la popolazione, nei prossimi decenni, 
sara sempre meno numerosa e pill anziana.” 


308 Graziella Parati 


depended on immigration for the bulk of its population increase since the nineteenth 
century. . . . Yet intellectuals and public officials have zigzagged between two 
contradictory positions on immigration: on the one hand, denying that France had 
any particular problem with immigrants; on the other, decrying the latest stream of 
immigrants as threats to the country’s unity and viability” (vii). This representation 
of external invasions — or the opposite stance that immigration is not a big enough 
issue to become a priority for state officials — also describes contemporary Italy, 
where, Bolaffi argues, an “excess of ideology” is produced in the context of a rarely 
efficient political system (17-18). Immigration, adds Bolaffi, is “a politically 
explosive phenomenon, but, at the same time it is not very lucrative from the 
electoral point of view. In fact, immigrants exist, but they do not vote” (18). 
Bolaffi’s statement leads back again to the juridical narrative that must be revised 
in Italy, paying attention to the solutions adopted in other European countries. In 
1994, Italy partially conformed to the convention ratified in Strasbourg in February 
1992 concerning the participation of immigrants in public life in local 
administrations within Europe. Italy ratified only two initial sections of the covenant 
that deals with the immigrants’ freedom of expression and association and with the 
creation of local representatives of the immigrant communities, but stopped short 
of granting immigrants resident in Italy the right to vote at local elections, as the 
Strasbourg convention had suggested. 

The separation between the European deliberations and the legal translation 
into practice in each member of the Union invites an investigation of the similarities 
and differences concerning migration issues in Italy and neighboring countries. Alec 
Hargreaves has pointed out the concerns of the different generations, and in 
particular a second generation of Beur writers in France: “where the Beurs are 
concerned, the split is effectively between two different parts of the self: one which 
identifies with the secular values of contemporary France, and one which, through 
the family home, remains engaged with the Islamic traditions of North Africa” (20). 
This double belonging is further fragmented when the Beur tradition is translated 
into the Italian culture and language. In Volevo diventare bianca, Nassera Chohra, 
a second generation Algerian in Marseilles, tells of her life in France. She devotes 
only the final chapter of her autobiography to her move to Italy, as if the French 
narrative already contained the characteristics of her later life in Italy. Chohra tells 
of her life in Marseilles, growing up in an immigrant ghetto and creates a life plot 
that uncovers the hidden side of a debate that is at the center of the 1997 law 
project. Guaranteed subsidized housing is part of the legal agenda that allows 
immigrant access to rent-controlled housing. However, this construction of a 
location of migration must be kept from becoming Chohra’s ghetto. Like Chohra, 
in a short story Tahar Lamri expresses concerns typical of a second-generation Beur 
writer torn between two cultures. Lamri dispenses with legal debates about concepts 
of citizenship and focuses on a second-generation Algerian man whose father 
attempted to erase any trace of non-Western identity in his son in the name of 
assimilation. During a trip to Algeria to bury his father, the son tries to uncover the 


The Legal Side of Culture 309 


suppressed identity and the denied familial memories. In Chohra’s and Lamri’s 
texts, the terms “internal” and “external” used by Noirel acquire a different meaning 
as the cultural borders between the countries in Europe become almost transparent 
and invite a revision of the legal and literary discussions of imbricated traditions of 
immigration. The nomadic identities of the immigrants have contributed to this 
destruction of separations, but have become in turn the problem, the marginalized 
people. : 

On January 19, 1997, Cornell West addressed an audience of Dartmouth 
Students and asked them whether they knew what it means, and what it feels like, 
to be “problem people,” whose bodies and presence are problems in a cultural 
context. Immigrant writers in Italy try not only to answer the question asked by 
West; they do so by attempting to produce narratives that have meaning for Italian 
readers and that talk back to discourses, constructed by those readers, that create 
legal narratives as defenses against problematic difference. The question that needs 
to be asked is whether their life stories, written for white Italian readers, and only 
secondarily to construct a dialogue with other immigrants, have made any impact 
in everyday Italian culture. Beside the important “boutique multiculturalist’ changes 
in everyday life, influences can be found in the evolution of the literature by Italian 
writers, a literature that revolves around the representation of the immigrants. Even 
in this context, it is following the first exhaustive corpus of laws, the Martelli law 
(1990), that Italians weave stories about the identities of cultural others. It is in fact 
in 1990 that Marco Lodoli’s short novel J fannulloni (1990) attempts to connect the 
loneliness and marginalization of an old man to the experience of an African in 
Italy. In La tempesta (The Tempest, 1993), Emilio Tadini problematically recreates 
Lodoli’s plot in a novel that tells of the tensions between Italian society, 
marginalized Italians, and “il Nero.” Giulio Angioni’s book, published in 1992 and 
entitled Una ignota compagnia (1992), tells of a friendship between Warti from 
Kenya and Tore from Sardinia, creating connections between internal and external 
migrations. An Italian and an immigrant share the space as protagonists, but the 
narrators in both texts are Italians. The focus is on otherness, a difference visibly 
embodied by the Africans, that reflects the otherness of the second-class white 
Italian citizens. The immigrants represent the projection of difference, what 
Kristeva calls “the hidden face of our identity” (Strangers to Ourselves 1). The 
Italians are therefore the protagonists, and there is still a sense of “us,” of “our 
identity,” that reveals the direct connection between the writer and the reader. It was 
only in 1996, after the publication of self-narratives by the immigrants themselves, 
that Italian writers succeeded in displacing their attention completely from 
representing the “otherness” of Italians at the margins to creating a literary space 
in which the immigrants can become protagonists. In Clandestino (Clandestine, 
1996 ), Erasmo D’Angelis, a journalist of // Manifesto, tells the story of an 
immigrant who slowly suffocates in a locked container in which he records on tape 
his agony. Similarly, in // ragazzo di Tirana (The Boy from Tirana, 1996), Giorgio 
Saponaro narrates the life of an Albanian clandestine who rejects his life of misery 


310 Graziella Parati 


in Italy and returns to a life of poverty in Albania after witnessing the drug-induced 
death of his best friend. 

In between the first (Lodoli, Angioni, Tadini) and second (D’Angelis, 
Saponaro) group of texts by Italian writers, a large production of narratives by 
immigrants describes the experience of immigration. Such a production created the 
foundation for initiatives that have publicly connected immigrants and Italians. In 
1996 the President of the Italian Republic, Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, bestowed his 
patronage to the Literary Award for Immigrant Writers that had been established a 
year earlier, and therefore helped to douse the objection of the right-wing parties to 
the partial public funding of the prize. The literary prize inscribed itself on an 
earlier leftist tradition in Emilia Romagna that is rather unique in Italy. Financed in 
part by the Regione Emilia Romagna, the Provincia di Rimini, and the University 
of Bologna, and supported by Catholic associations like Caritas, this award, located 
at the intersection of different Italian traditions, allows immigrants to make their 
stories visible and creates the possibility for publication of poems and short stories 
that otherwise would never be circulated. I mention this initiative because of my 
personal involvement in it, but many others have followed, underscoring the need 
to record the collective memory of migrating people. 

While awaiting the ratification of the new 1997 immigration laws, this 
presentation can only draw temporary conclusions about the relationship between 
the unfocused but at the same over codifying legal narrative and the insufficiently 
known literary production by immigrants and their influence on contemporary 
Italian culture. In 1996 a child from Hong Kong won the prize for the best poem in 
Bellunese dialect, in 1997 Albanian poet Gezim Hajdari won the most prestigious 
poetry award in Italy, the Montale Prize. In 1997 another Albanian poet, Visar 
Zhiti, won the Ada Negri prize for poetry. All this proves not only that immigrants 
are beginning to compose their texts without the intervention of a “language 
specialist,” but that they are mastering Italian literary paradigms as well. On the one 
hand, the laws promote stasis and express the public inability to confront the issues 
in contemporary Italy; on the other hand, immigrants are appropriating the right to 
become agents in the construction on paper, but often also in daily practice, of a 
space of belonging. A number of associations, including ARC/ and Non solo nero, 
issued a list of demands to the lawmakers, including the decriminalization of 
immigration by removing the competence of those “permessi di soggiorno” from 
the police stations to Town Halls. The document argued for renaming such 
documents “carta di soggiorno” because, as Noirel says “the ‘reality’ of 
immigration is indeed a question of words” (xxvi). The same document also 
demanded the right to vote in local elections so that immigrants can become people 
whose bodies count, whose votes can be counted and be instrumental. The 
lawmakers, and in particular the Ministro degli Interni Napolitano and the Ministro 
della Solidarieta Sociale have responded by proposing a new legal text of forty-four 
articles (February 14, 1997) that changes the long term “permessi di soggiorno” to 
“carte di soggiorno,” but maintains the “permessi” as short term visas. The new 


The Legal Side of Culture 311 


laws also promote stricter control at the borders, more rigid expulsion regulations, 
and, incredibly, the creation of centers where the person who has received an 
expulsion order can wait while he/she is appealing the court order.° This transit 
centers awaken memories that, by themselves, should prevent this project from 
being translated into practice. As I mentioned earlier, French intellectuals and 
filmakers, in particular, have invited French people to embrace civic disobedience 
in order to protest the recent Debré bill, demanding that citizens denouce the 
presence of illegal immigrants in France and penalizing the act of receiving illigal 
immigrants within a person’s home. This Debré bill was amended under pressure 
from the European parliament, but together with the Italian law on custody for 
immigrants, they create a questionable text about the future of legal narratives about 
illegal bodies and legalized marginalization. 

I would like to conclude by highlighting several positive aspects of 
Napolitano’s and Turco’s exhaustive proposal, which attempts to halt the common 
Italian practice of handling legal procedures concerning immigrants through 
emergency procedures and circolari from a ministry or from the police, thus 
allowing matters to be handled at the discretion of the police. Napolitano’s and 
Turco’s proposed laws contain the right to vote in local elections when the 
immigrants become residents in Italy, the right to apply for subsidized lodging, the 
right to emergency and preventive medical assistance from hospitals (doctors are 
not required to report the identity of illegal immigrants), and the right and duty to 
compulsory education for all children who will become the future intellectuals, able 
to talk back to the legal discourses created on their bodies. The discussion must 
now shift to the Italian educational system in its form and contents and the role that 
cultural difference will take in reshaping them: 


Article 35, Section 3: 

La comunita scolastica accoglie le differenze linguistiche e culturali come valore da porre 
a fondamento del rispetto reciproco, dello scambio tra le culture e della tolleranza; a tal fine 
promuove e favorisce iniziative volte all’ accoglienza, alla tutela della cultura e della lingua 
di origine e alla realizzazione di attivita interculturali comuni. 


Addendum 
This article was completed in June 1997. In the Fall of 1997, this law proposal was 


®Article 12 (Esecuzione dell’espulsione), section 1, reads: “Quando non é possibile eseguire 
con immediatezza l’espulsione mediante accompagnamento alla frontiera . . . perché occorre 
procedere al soccorso dello straniero, ad accertamenti supplementari in ordine alla sua 
identita o nazionalita . . . il questore dispone che lo straniero sia trattenuto per il tempo 
strettamente necessario presso il centro di permanenza temporanea 0 assistenza pil vicino 
tra quelli individuati o costruiti preferibilmente in prossimita del confine. . . .” 


312 Graziella Parati 


further debated to the point of provoking a violent brawl between Alleanza 
Nazionale and the Northern League representatives (November 18, 1997). 
Unfortunately, at this stage any discussion of those sections of the Napolitiano- 
Turco proposal concerning the right to citizenship and the right to vote has been 
cast aside to be dealt with in the future, and in future laws. 


Dartmouth College 


Works Cited 


Angioni, Giulio. Una ignota compagnia. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1992. 

Ba, Saudou Moussa and Alessandro Micheletti. La promessa Hamadi. Novara: De Agostini, 
1991. 

. “Nel cuore di un clandestino.” /talian Studies in Southern Africa. Margins at the 

Centre: African Italian Voices 8 (1995): 16-22. 

Barolini, Helen. Umbertina. Salem, NH: Ayer, 1989. 

Bhabba, Homi. “In a Spirit of Calm Voice.” After Colonialism: Imperial Histories and 
Postcolonial Displacements. Ed. Gyan Prakash. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1995. 326- 
43. 

Bolaffi, Guido. Una politica per gli immigrati. Bologna: I] Mulino, 1996. 

Bouchane, Mohamed. Chiamatemi Ali. Ed. Carla de Girolamo and Daniele Miccione. 
Milano: Leonardo, 1990. 

Chohra, Nassera. Volevo diventare bianca. Ed Alessandra Atti di Sarro. Roma: E/O, 1993. 

D’ Angelis, Erasmo. Clandestino. Siena: Protagon, 1996. 

De Liegro, Luigi. “Introduzione.” Immigrazione: Dossier statistico 1996. Roma: Caritas, 
1996. 8-11. 

Donna Elvira. “Verso la societa multirazziale.” Panorama (Oct. 3 1996): 52. 

Fazel, Shirin Ramzanali. Lontano da Mogadiscio. Roma: DataNews, 1994. 

Gardaphé, Fred. Italian Signs American Streets: The Evolution of Italian American 
Narrative. Durham: Duke UP, 1996. 

Hargreaves, Alec G. Voices from the North African Immigrant Community in France. New 
York: Berg, 1991. 

Hodzic, Jadranka. “L’altra parte dell’ Adriatico.” Mosaici d’inchiostro. Santarcangelo di 
Romagna: Fara Editore, 1996. 45-47. 

Khouma, Pap. Jo, venditore di elefanti. Ed. Oreste Pivetta. Milano: Garzanti, 1990. 

Kristeva, Julia. Strangers to Ourselves. Trans. Leon S. Roudiez. New York: Columbia UP, 
1991, 

Lamri, Tahar. “Solo allora, sono certo, potrd capire.” Le voci dell’arcobaleno 43-58. 

Lodoli, Marco. J fannulloni. Torino: Einaudi, 1990. 

Methani, Salah and Mario Fortunato. /mmigrato. Roma: Theoria, 1990. 

Melliti, Mohsen. Pantanella: canto lungo la strada. Trans. Monica Ruocco. Roma: 
Edizioni Lavoro, 1992. 

Noirel, Gérard. The French Melting Pot: Immigration, Citizenship, and National Identity. 
Trans. Geoffroy de Laforcade. Minneapolis: The U of Minnesota P, 1996. 


The Legal Side of Culture 313 


Paraschivescu Pieleanu, Aura. “Frontiere.” Le voci dell’arcobaleno 81-84. 

Perrone, Luigi. Porte chiuse: cultura e tradizioni africane attraverso le storie di vita degli 
immigrati. Napoli: Liguori, 1995. 

Prakash, Gyan. “Introduction: After Colonialism.” After Colonialism: Imperial Histories and 
Postcolonial Displacements. Ed. Gyan Prakash. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1995. 3-17. 

Saponaro, Giorgio. // ragazzo di Tirana. Firenze: Giunti, 1996. 

Sciascia, Leonardo. Porte aperte. Milano: Adelphi, 1987. 

Sibhatu, Ribka. Aulo: canto poesia dall’Eritrea. Roma: Sinnos, 1993. 

Sollors, Werner. Beyond Ethnicity: Consent and Descent in American Culture. New Y ork: 
Oxford UP, 1986. 

Tadini, Emilio. La tempesta. Torino: Einaudi, 1993. 

Tilly, Charles. “Foreword.” Noirel vii-ix. 

Ventura, Ines. “Timbri.” Le voci dell 'arcobaleno23-24. 

Le voci dell’arcobaleno. Santarcangelo di Romagna: Fara, 1995. 

Wakkas, Yousseff. “Io Marokkino con due kappa.” Le voci dell’arcobaleno 101-36. 


—_ ™= ese 


eat ised: ib! : 
: J 7 





~ 
7 
7 
- 
. 
. 
7 
- 
> 


7 oO 

7 a 7 

, pee 
: : _ 

a _ oe to 

a 
. _ se 4 

7 7 oe 
_ a ~~. 2 
a a) OO 





Eugenia Paulicelli 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 


I. La moda, oggetto della presente indagine, va intesa qui come un sistema di 
significazione. Esso ci rivela che la funzione degli abiti di un dato contesto sociale 
si determina dall’incontro di due culture diverse. Le due culture dell’ integrazione 
e della differenza, spesso in rapporto tensionale, interagiscono all’interno dei 
processi e meccanismi per l’egemonia che non é mai fissata una volta per tutte. 

Come piccola premessa all’analisi vorrei menzionare un’ opera pittorica del 
Rinascimento per mostrare come nel periodo in cui nasce la modernita esiste la 
consapevolezza che I’abito, inscriva e costituisca con la sua teatralita discorsiva, un 
reticolo di segni e di messaggi sia di conformita che di trasgressione. I! famoso 
affresco in questione é quello del Mantegna “La corte” (1471-74) che si trova nella 
Camera degli sposi all’interno del palazzo ducale di Mantova. Quello che colpisce 
in questo dipinto é che tutti i personaggi sono rappresentati con gli abiti pit sfarzosi 
e sontuosi, mentre il Marchese Lodovico Gonzaga é ritratto con la sua veste da 
nocte. Occupando la posizione piu alta nella gerarchia sociale, Lodovico é il solo 
a non ostentare il suo potere perché é quello stesso potere che gli consente la liberta 
di trasgredirne i codici. Questo € un esempio di messaggi che possono essere 
veicolati dall’abito soprattutto nel contesto di una societa in cui le gerarchie 
dovevano essere rese il pili possibile inequivocabili secondo una narrativa di potere. 

Non dovrebbe stupirci dunque, il constatare che nella nostra epoca di 
democratizzazione della moda e delle apparenze, sussistano degli ambienti, come 
il mondo del “corporate”, in cui la gerarchizzazione e i codici vestimentari devono 
rendersi trasparenti alla comunicazione. Laddove anche la stessa trasgressione 
diventa codificata e consiste per esempio nel permettere ai vari “executives” di 
indossare i jeans il venerdi, mentre negli altri giorni della settimana bisogna 
rispondere alle leggi della impeccabile formalita del “look da uomo o donna 
d’affari” con abito gessato o rigorosamente scuro. Gli abiti dunque, costituiscono 
una rete di immagini nei rapporti di comunicazione tra la gente e cosi come i miti, 
il cibo, le credenze portano i segni della vita collettiva, formando il tessuto stesso 
della cultura. Similmente le immagini e i simulacri inventati dalla moda, producono 
a loro volta discorsi, storie, mitologie con sistemi narrativi complessi e sottili. Tali 
mitologie sono destinate a restare, a sedimentarsi e a formare la struttura stessa della 
memoria collettiva e pertanto determinano anche inconsciamente i gusti, le scelte, 
lideologia. 


Annali d italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni 


316 Eugenia Paulicelli 


La moda con i suoi codici, regole, gerarchie e valori ha pero una natura duale: 
da un lato agisce come sistema imposto dall’alto per riprodurre i meccanismi 
egemonici di una data classe dominante, dall’altro si inserisce a questo, un 
meccanismo di natura opposta che serve invece a trasgredire i codici accettati e 
consolidati. Tale rapporto molto spesso onnipresente contribuisce alla formazione 
di nuove identita e di diversi codici retorici. I] sistema vestimentario in qualsiasi 
cultura o societa non é mai neutro in quanto prevede sempre una scelta personale 
che a sua volta diviene inevitabilmente sociale proprio perché un vestito abita il 
corpo, un corpo che é maschile, femminile. Ecco perché non si puo scindere il 
discorso e la pratica della moda dalla consapevolezza del genere e sul fatto che 
questo non sia solo un dato biologico ma soprattutto una costruzione sociale e 
culturale. Si pud comprendere, inoltre, come la moda sia intimamente legata alla 
storia delle donne non solo da un punto di vista di discorso, ma anche da quello di 
pratica e della stessa produzione vestimentaria. Sin dai suoi albori, |’ industria della 
moda ha visto infatti la presenza massiva di donne che vi lavoravano pur in periodi 
storici che non ne glorificavano la loro indipendenza. 


II. Come si € detto, ogni cultura ¢ determinata da una serie di costumi e abitudini 
che si rivelano nel sistema vestimentario. La moda di una determinata epoca storica 
e€ paese porta i segni di codici vestimentari che sono a loro volta accettati da una 
comunita come segno di identificazione e riconoscimento, sono simboli questi, 
destinati a conservare le regole di una determinata societa. Parallelamente a questo 
fenomeno si riscontra un altro meccanismo di natura opposta che é€ invece 
innovativo per natura, ovvero la tendenza progressiva al cambiamento che ha lo 
scopo di modificare i codici accettati da un determinato sistema vestimentario. Si 
comprende cosi che il sistema della moda diviene un vero e proprio processo 
determinato da un cambiamento costante. All’interno di tale processo del 
cambiamento si possono notare due diversi modi che esprimono due connotazioni 
ideologiche diverse. Se pensiamo alla moda come “look dominante dell’anno”, 
questo implica anche cambiamento dal look dell’anno precedente e, allo stesso 
tempo, significa riciclare i looks del passato. Vi sono numerosi e continui esempi 
di questo processo di riciclaggio, il ritorno delle scarpe con la zeppa anni settanta, 
i pantaloni stretti alla gamba e ampi alle caviglie. E interessante notare che una 
delle caratteristiche degli anni novanta risieda proprio nella pluralita e convivenza 
di diversi ritorni, quindi non solo gli anni settanta, ma anche gli anni sessanta e cosi 
via in una miriade vorticosa di immagini. 

Quando parliamo di innovazione in una maniera piu radicale possiamo riferirci 
a quelle contro-mode che nel contesto in cui sono apparse rappresentavano una 
sfida alla moda tradizionale, imperante e anche contribuivano alla formazione di 
micro-spazi di resistenza all’interno dell’ establishment borghese.' Pensiamo per 


' Qui uso il termine contro-moda, come indico nel testo, nel senso di anti-establishment, 
diversamente quindi dall’accezione implicata nello stesso termine da Polhemus e Procter 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 317 


esempio alla funzione dei jeans e la minigonna negli anni sessanta, ai punks sul 
finire degli anni settanta. Sono tutte esperienze queste, legate alla cultura giovanile 
in paesi come la Gran Bretagna e gli Stati Uniti e poi esportate in altri paesi 
occidentali come |’ Italia e in un secondo tempo in oriente. Questi atti di protesta e 
resistenza sono stati poi assorbiti in un vero e proprio processo di recupero o di 
cooptazione all’interno della cultura borghese, quella stessa cultura che volevano 
inizialmente sfidare e mettere in crisi. 

Sarebbe interessante a questo proposito richiamare un articolo di Pier Paolo 
Pasolini intitolato “Il discorso dei capelli” pubblicato per la prima volta nel 
Corriere della sera (7 gennaio 1973), poi ripubblicato in Scritti corsari, che offre 
un esempio pertinente e una illustrazione dei meccanismi di recupero o per dirla nei 
suoi termini di “omologazione culturale”. Qui Pasolini si riferisce ai “capelloni” 
degli anni sessanta, look maschile che si offriva come sfida all’immagine virile, 
maschile egemone della borghesia. Secondo Pasolini questo tipo di look era una 
lingua non verbale caricata di un messaggio di protesta. Cosi si interroga 
nell’articolo: 


Cosa dicevano, col linguaggio inarticolato consistente nel segno monolitico dei capelli, i 
capelloni nel 66-67? Dicevano questo: “La civiltaé consumistica ci ha nauseati. Noi 
protestiamo in modo radicale. Creiamo un anticorpo a tale civilta, attraverso il rifiuto. Tutto 
pareva andare per il meglio, eh? La nostra generazione doveva essere una generazione di 
integrati? . . . Noi opponiamo la follia a un destino di executives.” 

(Pasolini 1975, 11) 


Pasolini pensa che attraverso i capelli questi giovani potessero esprimere un 
messaggio piu articolato e una protesta meno ambigua di quello che avrebbero 
potuto fare unicamente a livello verbale. Inoltre questa sottocultura di protesta col 
passare del tempo é stata assorbita da una sottocultura di potere o, in altre parole, 
i segni della protesta di una cultura di sinistra sono stati fatti propri da una cultura 
di destra. Secondo Pasolini la carica simbolica di certe mode o looks viene cosi 
privata del suo iniziale messaggio di protesta. Nell’articolo infatti, si porta 
l’attenzione su quello che i “capelloni” sono diventati negli anni settanta, e come 
di questo look se ne erano indiscriminatamente appropriati coloro che 
appartenevano a qualsiasi orientamento politico, perdendo cosi la carica progressiva 
iniziale. In altre parole era diventato “moda”. Nei primi anni settanta a dieci anni 
di distanza dalla prima apparizione dei “capelloni,” Pasolini commenta traducendo 
in parole il loro messaggio visivo: 


(1978). In questo studio infatti, il termine anti-fashion connota uno stato immutabile del 
costume, come quello legato al rito, per esempio come nel caso dell’incoronazione della 
regina Elisabetta d’Inghilterra che resta per necessita di cose immutato, laddove altri tipi di 
abiti rientrano nella moda perché cambiano in continuazione. 


318 Eugenia Paulicelli 


Noi [i capelli] siamo stati adottati anche dai provocatori fascisti, che si mescolano ai 
rivoluzionari verbali (il verbalismo puo portare pero anche all’azione, soprattutto quando 
la mitizza): e costituiscono una maschera perfetta, non solo dal punto di vista fisico — il 
nostro disordinato fluire e ondeggiare tende a omologare tutte le facce — ma anche dal punto 
di vista culturale: infatti una sottocultura di destra pud benissimo essere confusa con una 
sottocultura di sinistra. 


(13) 


Uno degli aspetti pit interessanti di questo articolo ¢ che veniva pubblicato negli 
anni settanta quando era di fatto, ancora possible in talune circostanze, comprendere 
ideologia o l’orientamento politico di una persona dalla maniera in cui era vestita. 
Ma non é solo questo, Pasolini qui indica gli inizi del processo di omologazione dei 
costumi e quindi dell’impoverimento di un linguaggio che sia questo verbale o non 
verbale, che genuinamente si ponga come derisorio di un potere e che riesca a 
rodere il discorso della borghesia. Si pensi al valore iconico-narrativo di un 
indumento come quello del famoso esckimo verde militare del sessantottino, 
indossato nelle numerose manifestazioni di protesta e di occupazioni di scuole e 
universita. Oppure si ricordera come all’inizio degli anni settanta gli occhiali da 
sole Ray-Ban rappresentavano il segno di appartenenza a gruppi neofascisti 0 al 
partito del Movimento Sociale Italiano. Diversamente dagli anni sessanta e settanta, 
nella nostra realta contemporanea, é diventato molto pit difficile, se non 
impossibile, associare un dato look al suo corrispettivo orientamento politico. Infatti 
€ scomparso il rapporto abbastanza intimo che esisteva nel passato nell’esprimere 
con l’abbigliamento il proprio orientamento politico. Anche questo é evidentemente 
un segno dei cambiamenti nel rapporto tra ideologia e politica negli ultimi tempi e 
non esprime sempre un processo di omologazione. Dal crollo del muro di Berlino 
in poi, avvenimento che certo non poteva essere previsto da Pasolini, gli anni 
novanta sono stati inaugurati in Italia da una serie di articoli nel campo della moda 
e del costume tesi a sottolineare che nella nostra epoca non esistono pit dei segni 
distintivi nei codici vestimentari che distingue la gente di sinistra da quella di 
destra. Oggigiorno si é andati verso la uniformita delle apparenze. Sarebbe 
opportuno sottolineare a questo punto che parallelamente a tale fenomeno, si é 
verificato un processo politico di rimessa in discussione delle ideologie. Si pensi 
per esempio alle enormi trasformazioni avvenute nell’ambito dei partiti in Italia e 
non solo per quanto concerne le loro denominazioni. I neo-fascisti vogliono essere 
chiamati e identificati come “post-fascisti” dopo il processo di pulizia della loro 
immagine pubblica attuata nei primi anni novanta. D’altro canto movimenti 
relativamente nuovi come quello della “Lega Nord” tendono a inventare e 
sottolineare i loro segni di riconosimento e appartenenza, adottando la “camicia 
verde” nelle loro manifestazioni di piazza. 

Comunque non si possono con questo negare i rischi cui inevitabilmente 
conduce il processo di omologazione culturale che tende di fatto a sopprimere le 
differenze inghiottendole nel vorace sogno di cultura globale dai segni spesso 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 319 


ambigui. Per tornare ai capelloni di cui parlava Pasolini, si pensi all’immagine di 
Che Guevara, un altro capellone che negli anni sessanta aveva attratto molti 
appartenenti alla sinistra che duplicavano la sua camicia verde militare, la barba, il 
sigaro ecc., che incarnava il look del rivoluzionario. Ora Che Guevara é diventato 
invece una icona depoliticizzata che si pud vedere sulle t-shirts, sui jeans, su 
cartoline in compagnia di Marilyn Monroe o Albert Einstein oppure in una vetrina 
di New York insieme a Fidel Castro circondati da poster della Coca-Cola e abiti 
casual. Questo ci conferma che i contenuti e la ricezione delle ideologie si 
modificano col tempo e i cambiamenti che si verificano nelle condizioni politiche, 
economiche e sociali. Inoltre la globale massificazione e la tendenza verso una 
uniformita delle apparenze fa aumentare le possibilita dei meccanismi di recupero 
che si verificano insieme alla depoliticizzazione di dati messaggi. E all’interno di 
tale contesto socio-economico che diventa sempre pit difficile la possibilita di 
resistere alla cooptazione delle culture che si fanno portatrici della differenza. 
L’omologazione culturale, dunque, sembra essere il vero pericolo che Pasolini porta 
lucidamente all’attenzione nei suoi scritti giornalistici.” 

Per una ulteriore illustrazione di tale processo possiamo far riferimento ad una 
mostra tenuta nel 1994-95 al Victoria e Albert Museum di Londra intitolata 
“Streetstyle” e curata da Ted Polhemus. La mostra metteva insieme un’arguta 
narrazione degli ultimi cinquanta anni della nostra storia il cui racconto era alla base 
degli streetstyles che hanno dominato gli spazi urbani: dallo zoot suit degli anni 
quaranta ai mods, teddy boys ecc. 

Attraverso i diversi vestiti, l’uso di stoffe e di vari looks, la mostra tracciava 
un background storico internazionale, sebbene non unificato, a cui diverse 
sottoculture e razze hanno contribuito nel dar forma alle loro identita. E proprio 
grazie a queste identita che hanno lasciato le loro tracce nel dedalo delle strade 
delle metropoli contemporanee. Cosi come i monumenti e I’architettura, le tribu 
urbane hanno assegnato sapori inconfondibili alle diverse citta del mondo. Esse 
hanno contribuito con il loro distinto linguaggio alla scrittura della storia, 0 alla 
registrazione di segni memorabili, gesti, stili. 

Se i punks potevano rappresentare una maniera di vestirsi contro, nello spazio 
visivo della strada, lo zoot suit degli anni quaranta ha rappresentato una maniera di 
vestirsi bene per le classi meno privilegiate. Erano infatti i neri e i latinos a 


* Si veda anche a tal proposito I’articolo di Pier Paolo Pasolini apparso prima sul Corriere 
della sera col titolo “Il folle slogan dei jeans Jesus” e poi ripubblicato sempre in Scritti 
corsari col titolo “17 maggio 1973. Analisi linguistica di uno slogan”, dove Pasolini 
afferma: “‘La finta espressivita dello slogan é cosi la punta massima della nuova lingua 
tecnica che sostituisce la lingua umanistica. Essa é il simbolo della vita linguistica del futuro, 
cioé di un mondo inespressivo, senza particolarismi e diversita di culture, perfettamente 
omologato e acculturato” (17-18). 


320 Eugenia Paulicelli 


indossare lo zoot, in tal modo esso é stato caricato di una valenza politica di 
protesta per queste classi. Potremmo richiamare qui un esempio del messaggio anti- 
establishment rappresentato dallo zoot. Negli Stati Uniti, durante la seconda guerra 
mondiale lo zoot fu definito antipatriotico e illegale dal “War Production Board”, 
avendo legiferato che, per il bene della nazione, la lana usata negli abiti maschili 
doveva essere ridotta del 26 per cento.° 

Gli elementi importanti della narrazione visiva illustrata da Streetstyle ci 
permette a comprendere il rapporto complesso e imprevedibile che si stabilisce tra 
moda della strada e alta moda. Come ha affermato il curatore della mostra Ted 
Polhemus, le tribt urbane con i loro stili hanno fortemente influenzato e ispirato le 
collezioni di famosi stilisti in tutto il mondo. Da questo possiamo dedurre che gli 
streetstyles rispondono a un lato pil creativo della moda, mentre |’alta moda 
fornendo le tendenze dominanti coopta in se stessa i looks della contro-moda. Si 
notino infatti l’abito da sposa “conceptual chic” di Zandra Rhodes (Figura 1) e 
l’abito da sera, con spille di sicurezza di Gianni Versace (Figura 2). Entrambi questi 
abiti sono ispirati allo stile dei punks. Versace, tra l’altro, é stato il primo stilista 
italiano a utilizzare nell’alta moda elementi di cultura punk o in genere della moda 
di strada nel panorama allora classico-tradizionale della moda italiana. 

Da questi esempi si evincono due diversi fenomeni. Da un lato, la strada é 
potenzialmente uno spazio autonomo in cui gruppi di individui possono esprimere 
sia il loro consenso che la loro opposizione ai trends di una determinata societa e 
ambiente. La strada, allora, é il luogo dell’imprevedibile, ma é anche fonte di 
ispirazione per |’alta moda. Queste immagini illustrano il processo di recupero che 
la moda mainstream opera sul potenziale rivoluzionario di un dato stile, il processo 
di “omologazione culturale” di cui parlava Pasolini. Un altro esempio di quasi 
indolore cooptazione é il giubbotto di pelle nera da motociclista, reso famoso da 
Marlon Brando nel suo film The Wild One del 1954 (Figura 3) e da allora copiato 
da quasi tutti gli stilisti di moda in modelli sempre piu sofisticati tra cui in Italia 
ancora Versace. 

Diversamente da paesi come la Gran Bretagna e gli Stati Uniti, in Italia non ci 
sono state delle vere e proprie culture giovanili e gruppi con i loro looks originali. 
Le mode e le anti-mode in Italia sono un po’ nate sulla scia di quelle anglo- 
americane come i mods, i teddy boys, gli hippies ecc. C’é un solo fenomeno che 
pero potremo definire italiano e il solo ad essere in qualche modo esportato, ed é 
quello dei “paninari.” La nascita dei paninari si riscontra contemporaneamente alla 
nascita delle paninoteche, i due termini hanno infatti la stessa radice, derivando 
entrambi da panino. Le paninoteche, una specie di fast food per yuppies nascono 
in Italia durante la meta degli anni ottanta. Nello stesso periodo sorgono per la 
prima volta anche numerosi McDonalds di cui quello a Roma in Piazza di Spagna 
nel 1986. Era in questi locali che i paninari si incontravano e potevano consumare 


* Cfr. Polhemus (1994); McRobbie (1988). 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 321 


i loro spuntini a buon mercato. I paninari appartenevano ad una classe medio-alta 
ed erano anche il simbolo di un periodo che veniva chiamato del disimpegno, del 
riflusso, del rifiuto della politica, fenomeno verficatosi non solo in Italia. Che tipo 
é dunque il paninaro? Proviamo a descriverlo. Il paninaro si sente completamente 
a suo agio a vivere in una societa consumistica. I paninari creano non solo il loro 
look ma anche un vero e proprio gergo, che dopo un po’ é diventato popolare, 
passando dunque all’uso comune. II loro look consisteva nel portare capelli 
rigorosamente corti per gli uomini, un piumino moncler azzurro oppure un giaccone 
militare della U.S. Air Force con cappuccio con pelo, cintura in stile texano, jeans 
di Armani corti fino alla caviglia, calzettoni a rombi, zainetti colorati di Fiorucci, 
scarpe da vela Timberland. Per quanto riguarda il loro linguaggio espressioni del 
tipo “sei impazzito?” diventavano “‘sei fuori di testa”; “troppo giusto” indicava 
qualcuno che piaceva molto; la ragazza era chiamata “la sfitinzia,” conquistare una 
ragazza si diceva “cuccare”, o “una bella trovata” poteva tradursi in “una bella 


compilation”. 


III. Come si é accennato all’inizio, esiste un intimo legame tra la moda, la narrativa 
del genere e la storia delle donne nel suo complesso. Pit precisamente la mia 
intenzione qui, é quella di focalizzare |’attenzione sul soggetto femminile e alcune 
delle sue mitologie nel discorso di moda. 

Diversi studi nel campo della teoria femminista hanno contribuito a 
comprendere il fatto che l’immagine della donna cosi come |’elusivo concetto di 
“femminilita” sono delle costruzioni sociali. Inoltre sappiamo che nella storia, 
immagine della donna e la formazione della sua identita sono state prodotte in 
modo tale da soddisfare le aspettative maschili, quindi rafforzandone il suo ordine 
simbolico. In altre parole una delle pit importanti sfide per le donne consiste nella 
creazione di un diverso ordine simbolico che narri le loro vite con un nuovo 
approccio e linguaggio. L’immagine della donna, dunque, é stata una costruzione 
pre-fabbricata dentro cui lei entra scegliendo tra le varie maschere che le sono 
disponibili. Tradizionalmente, le diverse immagini metaforiche della donna formate 
all’interno del sistema moda sono state prodotte per soddisfare tali bisogni. Le due 
opposte figure dell’angelo etereo e della dark lady sono state anch’esse il risultato 
della fantasia maschile, quindi non propriamente soggetti autonomi che 
producevano un discorso. Piuttosto, tali figure sono state oggetto di discorso e 
mitologie di una cultura prevalentemente maschile. Di conseguenza questi oggetti 
sono stati considerati e percepiti come soggetti, come identita con cui altre donne 
potevano identificarsi. Questo naturalmente porta il segno di una liberta illusoria in 


* A proposito dei paninari, il recente volume J/talian Cultural Studies. An Introduction, 
curato da David Forgacs e Robert Lumley (1996), contiene un capitolo in cui si analizza il 
fenomeno in termini sociologici e come per la prima volta una forma di protesta provenga 
da strati dell’alta borghesia, assumendo connotazioni politiche conservatrici. 


322 Eugenia Paulicelli 


cui la donna non é soggetto o autrice della propria immagine e identita. Sarebbe 
opportuno chiedersi in tale istanza come e fino a che punto le donne possono 
costruire le loro identita autonomamente e secondo modi pili creativi che possano 
rodere dal di dentro quella logica binaria che ancora governa le nostre scelte di vita 
come ricettori di modelli prestabiliti sia maschili che femminili. Premesso questo, 
sappiamo come nella nostra societa vigono una serie di contraddizioni pertinenti 
alla costruzione del genere, é quindi in questo contesto che dobbiamo porci il 
quesito su come davwvero le donne possano essere soggetto in spazi che hanno scelto 
o inventato, ma senza che siano guardate come usurpatrici di luoghi 
tradizionalmente maschili. Tipicamente per le donne che non volevano obbedire 
alle regole, la sola opzione era quella di rubare uno spazio maschile o occuparlo 
abusivamente, sia questo, uno spazio pubblico o privato. Anche se |’equilibrio tra 
il personale e il pubblico si rivela nei fatti estremamente fragile. 

Tutti sperimentiamo questa contraddizione a cui la nostra lingua, le azioni, gli 
abiti, gli stili, e il comportamento sono inestricabilmente legati. Sebbene sia 
innegabile che per le donne sia di fatto pil complesso costruire nuovi spazi e 
momenti di sottile resistenza all’interno di tali confini, cid nonostante diventa 
necessario rendere sempre pit vitale l’atto di forgiare la propria identita. Contro un 
incessante bombardamento di immagini che possono corrodere la nostra abilita a 
pensare criticamente e a immaginare possibilita inesplorate, il compito delle donne 
risiede nel demistificare antiche costruzioni della sua immagine. E a questo riguardo 
che la moda ci offre un fruttuoso terreno di analisi. 

Le donne infatti non si vestono o comprano vestiti solo per piacere agli uomini, 
ma anche per piacere a se stesse e ad altre donne, e per diverse ragioni che sarebbe 
interessante esplorare. Tra le ragioni che potrebbero ipotizzarsi qui sarebbero quelle 
di essere accettata e ammirata da una madre interiorizzata, simbolica e cosi tessere 
la propria resistenza creativa al grigiore del mondo. Ma anche questi processi si 
dispongono su un fragile bordo. Le mitologie della moda infatti sembrano inviare 
alle donne dei messaggi spesso contraddittori e conflittuali. L’elemento paradossale 
nella nostra societa é che da un lato ci é sotto gli occhi l’immagine di una donna 
forte e libera da tradizionali costrizioni, dall’altro é possibile registare una ansiosa 
preoccupazione dell’ apparire e a quello che qui in America si chiama “Dress for 
success”. Questo spiega il proliferarsi di saloni di bellezza tipo “Color me 
beautiful” che offrono consulenza per quanto riguarda la cura della propria 
immagine in particolari circostanze, anche legate alla vita professionale. Inoltre la 
maggior parte dei campus universitari negli Stati Uniti sono attrezzati con uffici 
speciali che offrono agli studenti vari consigli su come presentarsi e vestirsi per 
eventuali colloqui di lavoro. Le riviste di moda sono colme di consigli sui diversi 
stili, codici vestimentari da variare secondo |’ occasione, consigli sulla bellezza, il 
trucco, cure dimagranti e cosi via, tutto questo passa attraverso diversi esempi, 
come nel caso di foto di persone famose, trasformate in icone, che diventano role- 
models per milioni di donne. I] paradosso qui risiede nel fatto che se davvero le 
donne sono tutte cosi forti e autonome nel costruire ed esprimere la loro identita, 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 323 


sia nel sociale, nel mondo professionale e nel privato, viene spontaneo chiedersi 
quindi come mai abbiano un cosi forte bisogno di consigli e prescrizioni? Riflettere 
su questo punto pud anche indicarci il fatto che nella nostra epoca le donne sono 
sotto una profonda pressione, vivendo all’interno di una societa con una patina di 
liberazione e sistema egalitario che ha seguito e mimato piu a parole che nei fatti 
le vittorie raggiunte dalle conquiste delle battaglie femministe nel corso degli anni 
settanta. 

Le riviste “femminili” da sempre contribuiscono alla creazione delle mitologie 
di moda, infatti queste non solo hanno una funzione informativa ma producono 
delle immagini che poi a loro volta formano il sistema simbolico per milioni di 
donne. Dalla fine degli anni sessanta in poi, anche se in diverso grado, € stato 
possibile leggere su tali riviste articoli che riguardavano e riguardano argomenti di 
impostazione femminista nell’affrontare temi come il lavoro, le pari opportunita, 
l’aborto, il divorzio ecc. insieme anche a notizie, pettegolezzi riguardanti il mondo 
dello spettacolo, del cinema e cosi via. In diversa misura e taglio si pud notare la 
presenza di dibattiti su temi di ordine politico-sociale, la carriera, la violenza 
sessuale in settimanali come Amica, Grazia 0 Vogue. Tutto questo ha contribuito 
a lasciare la donna come sospesa tra due corpi diversi che convivono e che insieme 
faticosamente tentano di costruire e raccontare l’identita femminile.” Come afferma 
Leslie Rabine (1994): 


It leaves the woman of fashion with two bodies, both of which are represented in 
contemporary fashion magazines. One body, represented in fashion photographs and upbeat 
copy, is the confident, free, sexually powerful image that readers can reproduce through 
skillful use of clothing and make-up. The other, which could be called the sociopolitical 
body, is enmeshed in a network of power relations that still subordinate women 
economically, politically, sexually, phisically, and through a symbolic system that requires 
her objectification. 

(Benstock & Ferris 66) 


E cosi che si tocca una delle pit forti contraddizioni del discorso di moda in 
rapporto alla costruzione della identita femminile che é ancora tutta una sfida. 
Sarebbe opportuno richiamare a questo proposito un film recente intitolato Female 
Perversions (1997), diretto da Susan Streitfeld, tratto da un omonimo libro di 
Louise Kaplan (1991). II film affronta acutamente alcune di queste contraddittorie 
questioni legate alla formazione della identita femminile e del genere. Le prime 
inquadrature del film ci mostrano la protagonista, un avvocato molto affermato, che 
fa la sua arringa finale nel corso di un processo importante trasmesso anche per 
televisione. Vediamo i primi piani di dettagli del suo corpo, o pit precisamente i 
dettagli del suo abito impeccabile nel taglio e nei particolari. I] suo é un taielleur 


> Per quanto riguarda il rapporto tra le giovani teen-ager e le riveste a loro destinate si veda 
McRobbie (1991). 


324 Eugenia Paulicelli 


molto aderente e femminile, la gonna appena sopra il ginocchio e scarpe con tacco 
alto. L’attenzione dello spettatore é tutta diretta verso il tessuto, lo stile, il colore 
del suo taielleur che combina la carriera al sex-appeal. Sullo schermo, queste prime 
inquadrature ci mostrano il suo corpo frammentato, quasi fatto a pezzi dalla 
cinecamera e solo quando abbiamo ricevuto le informazioni riguardanti gli 
impeccabili dettagli del suo abito possiamo finalmente vedere tutta la sua figura per 
intero. L’immagine che percepiamo é quella di una donna alla moda, una donna in 
carriera che pubblicamente e sapientemente gioca le carte della sua femminilita. In 
tutto il film la sua immagine non é mai quella androgina della classica donna in 
carriera cosi diffusa dallo stilista italiano Giorgio Armani a partire dagli anni 
ottanta. 

Quello che mi preme sottolineare qui é che nel film vediamo una donna che 
attentamente e quasi nevroticamente costruisce la sua immagine pubblica quasi 
punto per punto appropriandosi del lato seducente della sua identita femminile che 
sembra attirare sia gli uomini che le donne. D’altro canto possiamo assistere ad una 
scissione molto stridente della protagonista tra pubblico e privato. E nel privato 
infatti che la vediamo alle prese nella complessa opera di costruzione della sua 
identita che deve combinare, oltre ai fantasmi del passato, le irrisoluzioni e misteri 
dei rapporti famigliari, i messaggi contrastanti che vengono dallo stesso ambiente 
in cui vive e agisce. Un ambiente le cui aspettative per un professionista di spicco 
sono ancora in perfetta concordanza con un modello maschile codificato a cui in 
sostanza la professionista donna deve adattarsi. Oppure come nel caso della 
protagonista del film, vivere tra consapevolezza e paura di avere invaso un campo 
non ancora fatto a sua misura. Una delle tante scene in cui si manifesta la 
perversione di tali meccanismi é quella del suo tanto agognato colloquio con il 
governatore dello Stato per la sua possibile prestigiosa promozione a giudice. E qui 
che rivediamo i primi piani dei dettagli del suo corpo avvolto in un altro 
impeccabile tailleur e la protagonista che nevroticamente elimina con la mano un 
filo di troppo dall’orlo della gonna, mentre il Governatore le chiede come mai una 
donna cosi attraente come lei, non avesse ancora un marito, una famiglia. E questa 
domanda, che spiazza per un attimo la protagonista rivelando |’ ipocrisia celata di 
una societa che vuole offrirsi come egalitaria e liberata da pregiudizi ma che di fatto 
non lo é ancora nei confronti delle donne. E qui che vediamo agire la donna come 
sospesa tra due corpi come osservava Rabine. 

Tornando agli anni ottanta, é stato proprio in questo periodo che hanno preso 
piede nell’ industria della moda due immagini di donna entrambi dominanti. Da un 
lato lo stereotipo della donna in carriera, della donna manager con il suo look 
decisamente androgino, dall’altro si vedeva imperante anche un’immagine 
ultrafemminile e che allora era vista come all’opposto della prima. Come si é 
accennato prima, é stato Armani a lanciare ed esportare con enorme successo negli 
Stati Uniti il look minimalista della professionista in carriera. A tutt’oggi Armani 
é il primo nelle vendite negli U.S.A. tra gli stilisti stranieri. Sul finire degli anni 
novanta |’industria della moda promuove un infinito numero di maschere e stili tutti 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 325 


in fondo di moda, perché si adattano non solo alle varie circostanze e occasioni ma 
anche perché rispondono e creano vari tipi di donne che sembrano prendere le 
distanze da quelle che erano state determinate ideologie femministe, soprattutto il 
femminismo degli anni settanta. In quegli anni infatti il femminismo radicale 
metteva in discussione le mode nel vestire e abbigliarsi che fossero spiccatamente 
femminili. Infatti per rendersi il pit: possibile uguale agli uomini soprattutto da un 
punto di vista intellettuale, bisognava come mimetizzare la propria femminilita, 
niente tacchi alti o minigonne, la divisa classica della femminista consisteva 
nell’indossare ampie gonne lunghe meglio se a fiori, zoccoli neri anche d’inverno, 
grandi maglioni, borsa artigianale di tolfa e cosi via. Ricorderemo anche che uno 
dei gesti simbolici del movimento di liberazione della donna era stato quello di 
bruciare il reggiseno, un tipico indumento femminile che oggi é diventato di gran 
moda assumendo delle proporzioni miracolose, si chiama infatti il wonderbra anche 
in italiano. E interessante notare come la rigidita ideologica e moralistica del 
femminismo degli anni settanta non consentiva di esplorare una serie di campi 
importanti della storia delle donne e di formazione di determinate egemonie, codici 
e trasgressioni. Inoltre camuffare la propria femminilita, perché definita come falsa 
coscienza, significava anche non vedere la stessa ideologia insita a tale scelta. Come 
riporta Jane Gaines nel saggio intitolato “Fabricating the female body” (1990): 


In an early lone voice of dissent, Carol Ascher questioned the representational strategy of 
the feminist anti-fashion dress. . . . First, says Ascher, the “genderless space” which the old 
feminist austerity strives for is impossible to achieve. Even long kinky hair and bare feet 
constitute a fashion construction, and plainess and naturalness in beauty draw on a 
romanticism that is highly ideological. 


(6) 


Va segnalato a tal proposito lo studio di Elizabeth Wilson pubblicato nel 1985 
Adorned in Dreams. Fashion and Modernity, che rivisita in chiave femminista la 
storia della moda affrontando le contraddizioni di un certo puritanesimo del primo 
femminismo nel capitolo intitolato “Feminism and Fashion.” Non ci si stupira 
dunque, se una delle femministe pit di spicco negli Stati Uniti, come Elaine 
Showalter, una delle fondatricci degli Women’s Studies, presidente della Modern 
Language Association scrive un articolo su Vogue proprio sui temi di cui si sta 
discutendo (1997). Ecco perché oggi, in una fase completamente diversa del 
femminismo, ci si interroga da piu parti e soprattutto nell’ambito di studi sulle 
donne, sulla possibilita di approfondire |’analisi sulla complessa costruzione del 
genere e di guardare alla femminilita non come qualcosa di gia dato o a se stante. 
Tali questioni implicano anche la necessita di trovare e inventare degli spazi per e 
delle donne che comprendano sia il personale che il politico da intendersi in termini 
del tutto nuovi rispetto al passato. Come attestano numerosi studi vi sono diversi 
sistemi di pensiero che studiano le donne e la loro storia in numerose aree e 
discipline da cui emerge una delle contraddizioni fondamentali e cioé che le donne 


326 Eugenia Paulicelli 


sono state parlate dal linguaggio, sono state cioé racconate con un linguaggio 
forgiato a immagine e somiglianza maschile. Questo significa che le donne non 
possono solo occupare degli spazi e identita che erano concepiti da e per gli uomini. 
Allora la questione aperta oggi € proprio quella di creare spazi che siano pensati per 
soggetti diversi che raccontino e accolgano questa soggetivita altra. E questo un 
progetto di ampio respiro che implica un autentico senso di apertura alla 
comprensione dei nuovi soggetti che fanno parte della stessa societa. Apertura qui 
nei confronti dell’alterita significa creare un ponte tra teoria e pratica non solo nelle 
idee ma nella pratica politica formando spazi a cui anche soggetti meno privilegiati 
possano avere accesso. E cosi che forse potrebbe organizzarsi una sottile resistenza 
a un quotidiano che spesso stritola qualsiasi tentativo di creativita. Questo potrebbe 
rappresentare una possibilita concreta alla numerosa serie di “omologazioni” e 
“cooptazioni” di cui si parlava prima e che la nostra societa conosce molto bene. La 
moda, dunque, nel senso di factio, fare, costruire, potrebbe rappresentare uno spazio 
che implica la coscienza da parte di un soggetto di essere in pericolo costante, ma 
potrebbe anche significare una sfida a costruire un diverso tipo di auto-costruzione 
che abbia delle risonanze politiche ed estetiche. Uno spazio, che porta ad attivare 
modelli egemonici alternativi e che sono anch’essi in un processo di cambiamento 
e mai dati una volta per tutte. Tale discorso conduce inevitabilmente a ripensare il 
rapporto tra donne e politica, potere e istituzioni. I! contributo delle donne deve 
farsi sentire infatti, come altro o rappresentare un approccio e una gestione del 
potere che si faccia portatore della diversita e non riproduca invece modelli 
maschili. Qui mi sembra risieda uno dei punti chiave della questione. 

La moda attiva meccanismi di fascinazione e seduzione richiamando il 
desiderio di chi indossa un determinato abito di sedurre, incantare attraverso la sua 
forza evocativa soprattutto in determinati contesti. Infatti non é l’abito a sé stante 
che significa, ma é€ tutta la teatralita della scena e il corpo, la personalita di chi lo 
indossa e a cui é associato. Come si € detto all’inizio bisogna pensare all’abito 
nell’ambito della sua teatralita discorsiva, infatti esso é anche gioco, arte, 
manipolazione creativa dei vari elementi che compongono la scena. Dal punto di 
vista del rapporto tra gioco e fantasia si puO comprendere come la moda abbia e 
continui ad esercitare una grande attrattiva sulle donne. Assumendo che la moda sia 
un sistema fondamentalmente duale, si comprende come da un lato esprime la 
possibilita creativa individuale di forgiarsi come meglio si desidera e dall’altro, 
determina un processo di vittimizazzione rispetto ad un modello egemone. Si pensi 
ad alcuni processi liberatori come l’uso della minigonna, oppure la scomparsa del 
corsetto dagli anni venti in poi, o dall’altro, a mezzi invece, di natura opposta che 
comprimevano il corpo seguendo certi dettami, e l’uso di cosmetici che portavano 
addirittura alla morte. Si comprende bene come le donne abbiano giocato un ruolo 
assolutamente fondamentale in tutto il processo della moda, sia nel ruolo di vittime 
sia in quello di agenti. Infatti uno degli aspetti pit affascinanti della moda é che le 
donne possano in qualche modo controllare, manipolare, camuffare il proprio 
corpo, esaltando delle parti, nascondendone altre e cosi via. Il che implica una sorta 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 327 


di controllo della propria immagine pubblica o della scena. C’é inoltre un altro 
elemento da considerare, e cioé il fatto che |’assenza delle donne dagli spazi 
pubblici nelle epoche passate, le abbia portate ad esprimersi in linguaggi piu 
silenziosi ma certo non meno eloquenti. Le donne infatti hanno parlato e raccontato 
attraverso la casa, e qui per casa intendo creazione di uno spazio accogliente, da 
decorare, inventare rendere esteticamente attraente, cosi come nella cucina, nella 
moda. Sono tutti atti e campi questi, di una grande importanza da molti punti di 
vista e che fortunatamente negli ultimi anni si stanno studiando in maniera diversa 
e soprattutto slegata dai pregiudizi che li avevano caratterizzati nel passato. Tali atti 
non sono meramente decorativi ma costituiscono tracce, tra le pili incisive di una 
determinata cultura e dei suoi rapporti egemonici. Le donne da questo punto di vista 
hanno risposto creando proprio dentro quegli spazi privati in cui erano state 
relegate, momenti vitali, di resistenza alla morte, al grigiore, inventandosi una serie 
di mondi per sé e per gli altri e quindi non solo incarnandosi come vittime 
sacrificali di un dato sistema. 


IV. Il discorso della moda si forma su due tempi e livelli distinti. Esiste da un lato 
il discorso che accompagna simultaneamente l’apparire delle mode, e dall’altro 
quello prodotto dalla pratica di queste stesse mode. Vari sono i campi che 
contribuiscono e partecipano alla creazione del discorso della moda e che ci 
illuminano sui vari meccanismi che lo costituiscono. Come anche numerosi sono i 
testi letterari che hanno contribuito alla costruzione stessa della moda come 
discorso, si pensi al Cortegiano (1528) del Castiglione come tra i pi emblematici 
di tale processo, ma ne esistono numerosi altri esempi nelle varie letterature italiana 
e straniere e in varie epoche storiche. Testi che, sara il caso di sottolineare, non a 
caso appaiono in periodi di grande cambiamento e formazione di nuove egemonie 
di cui i codici vestimentari si fanno espressione e portatori. 

Nell’ambito della semiologia il Systéme de la mode (1967) di Roland Barthes 
ha contribuito alla definizione di un metodo nell’approccio della moda distinguendo 
i due livelli della Jangue e della parole o del discorso propriamente tale e della sua 
pratica.° Lo studio di Barthes sulla moda si occupa soprattutto della moda descritta 
ovwvero del testo verbale che accompagna le foto di alcune riviste di moda nel corso 
di un anno. E stato proprio questo a costituire uno dei punti chiave delle critiche 
rivolte a Barthes per uno studio, la cui analisi si dice troppo centrata al livello 
linguistico per un oggetto come la moda che si offre invece immediatamente come 
immagine. Risiedono qui, una serie di incomprensioni e ambiguita di quei discorsi 





° La genesi di questo studio di Roland Barthes é abbastanza travagliata e indicativa delle sue 
vicissitudini e ricezioni che riesce a vedere la luce dopo quasi dieci anni e nato inizialmente 
come argomento della sua tesi di dottorato. Si veda a proposito Marrone, I/ sistema di 
Barthes (1994) e dello stesso autore “Barthes: il processo della moda” in Ceriani e Grandi 
(1996). 


328 Eugenia Paulicelli 


critici sulla moda che tendono a privilegiare l’immagine o la parola operando una 
gerarchia nelle discipline atte alla sua analisi. La debolezza di tali posizioni risiede 
proprio nell’atto di stabilire annose e sterili gerarchie tra linguaggi e discipline. A 
distanza di trent’anni dalla sua apparizione, quello che mi sembra importante 
sottolineare qui, é che lo studio di Barthes contribuisce alla comprensione del dato 
che ¢€ attraverso il linguaggio verbale che la moda diviene narrazione, si organizza 
in forme e figure retoriche (Barthes 1967, 277). La retorica, dunque, apre la moda 
al mondo e a sua volta attraverso la retorica il mondo é presente nella moda e 
certamente non come una mera e astratta costruzione umana. I] mondo, come 
osserva Barthes, é presente attraverso una serie di ragioni o in altri termini come 
ideologia (278). Come conseguenza si puo capire che la moda si offre come sistema 
€ processo in cui la coesistenza dei linguaggi visivo e verbale é intimamente 
connessa. E in questo senso che si intende sottolineare il contributo di Barthes 
all’analisi della moda come discorso e ai cosidetti cultural studies in generale. 
D’altro canto va anche detto che un unico approccio come quello semiologico, 
risulta di fatto insufficente a trattare un campo come la moda che é per sua natura 
interdisciplinare, nel senso che chiama a sé |’intervento di pil saperi che 
considerino la storia, l’antropologia, l’arte, la letteratura e il cinema. Tali 
prospettive rendono il campo d’indagine pil ricco e meno legato alla 
gerarchizazzione delle competenze. E l’oggetto di studio che richiama e suggerisce 
la direzione della ricerca e il discorso sul metodo. Del resto studiare la moda 
significa anche non scindere o eliminare il discorso dalla sua pratica. Proprio per 
questo mi sembra importante sottolineare l’uso fondamentale delle fonti storiche nel 
contesto della ricostruzione e interpretazione di abiti e costumi che appartengono 
ad un passato sia recente che distante. Certo indagini che riguardano epoche 
storiche a noi distanti presentano una serie diversa di problemi relativi alle fonti 
visive.’ 

La moda dunque, essendo immagine, narrazione, discorso partecipa alla 
creazione di mondi, atmosfere, o semplicemente storie. Se la moda fa una corsa col 


7 Ci sono numerosi studi affascinanti sulla moda e il costume nelle epoche passate. Qui 
menziono alcuni tra quelli che ho trovato importanti anche dal punto di vista metodologico: 
Dora Liscia Bemporad (1988). Soprattutto si segnala il saggio di Carlo Arturo Quintavalle, 
“Trascrizioni e scene della moda” e inoltre, dello stesso autore, La scena della moda, 
(Milano, 1983); “Fashion: The Three Cultures” in /talian Fashion: The Origins of High 
Fashion and Knitwear (Milano: Electa, 1985). Inoltre, di recente pubblicazione, Christopher 
Breward (1995). Sarebbe il caso anche di ricordare, tra le tante, due mostre tenute nell’ estate 
del 1997 a Londra; una intitolata “The Pursuit of Beauty: Five Centuries of Body Adornment 
in Britain”, tenuta alla National Portrait Gallery e l’altra intitolata “I Mestieri della moda: 
The Arts and Craft of Fashion in Venice from the 13th to the 18th century”, tenuta 
all’Accademia Europea. Erano esposte molte fonti visive storiche sia in termini di 
documenti, abiti riproduzioni e originali che contribuivano a rendere |’idea della ricchezza 
e vastita di materiali necessari per una comprensione piv critica e articolata del sistema 
vestimentario. 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 329 


tempo designando immancabilmente la sua transitorieta, dall’altro un abito ha il 
potere di lasciare una traccia particolare nella memoria. L’abito sembra trasformarsi 
in un ricettacolo di memoria dove il transitorio diviene la traccia ricordata e da 
ricordare. La letteratura come si é notato é piena di simili dettagli e tracce, si pensi 
alla Recherche di Marcel Proust, al Giorno di Giuseppe Parini e altri. 

Se pensiamo alla scena contemporanea della moda sia nell’ambito della 
pubblicita, sia nelle pubblicazioni degli stilisti, nelle riviste di moda, nei cataloghi 
si pud notare un elemento ricorrente che é quello di raccontare storie di cui gli abiti 
si farebbero portatori. Diversamente dai testi letterari dove il gioco di parole 
denotate e connotate tende ad aprire e articolare a pit strati il processo di 
significazione, i testi di moda e soprattutto quelli che accompagnano le immagini 
nella pubblicita tendono a usare certe immagini letterararie per rendere univoco il 
processo di significazione e associazione. Infatti la narrazione che spesso 
accompagna |’immagine di moda tende a limitare il campo della potenziale 
connotazione polisemica della parola. L’immagine visiva qui si dirige soprattutto 
al momento presente. Si pud notare in questo, la creazione di una memoria breve, 
perché non appena |’immagine diviene troppo familiare, ha immediatamente 
bisogno di recuperare segni “nuovi” del passato momentaneamente dimenticato che 
si ricicla nel presente accordandosi alle sue mutate esigenze. La moda dunque, si 
costruisce come una narrativa che tesse i suoi fili tra i due poli del ricordo e 
dell’oblio, processo questo, che é simile alla costruzione stessa della memoria e 
della narrativa in generale. Nonostante la sua natura transitoria un abito deposita 
pero, sempre una traccia che é di fatto segno della sua storicita come sottolinea 
Walter Benjamin nei suoi Passagen-Werk. 

In un libro intitolato Versace Signatures, lo stilista Gianni Versace riporta i 
suoi commenti sulla creazione dei suoi abiti che poi coincidono con la storia della 
sua vita o di come sia diventato uno stilista di moda. Per esempio, Versace ci 
racconta come ha reinterpretato il classico “abito nero” attraverso i ricordi di quello 
indossato da sua madre. In tale contesto, |’abito nero agisce come un dispositivo 
retorico insieme visivo e verbale che mette in moto una narrazione. Ma non 
qualsiasi narrazione, qui l’abito nero é il ricettacolo di memoria visiva che ci aiuta 
a formare un punto d’incontro tra il racconto autobiografico di Gianni Versace (il 
ricordo della sua infanzia) e quello biografico di un indumento di successo nella 
collezione dello stilista. 

Per passare all’ambito della pubblicita, che poi rafforza ad un altro livello 
quello che gli stilisti “intellettualizzano” nei loro libri, vorrei concludere 
riferendomi a una delle retoriche narrative della moda owvero la retorica della 
liberta cosi fortemente ricorrente nel discorso di moda.* Sempre su questa linea, vi 


8 Su tale discorso della liberta delle donne e di come |’industria della moda si appropri di un 
desiderio e nello stesso tempo lo rende desiderante si vedano le pagine di Louise Kaplan nel 
capitolo “Masquerades” nel gia citato Female Perversions (1991). 


330 Eugenia Paulicelli 


sono alcune immagini che vorrei commentare, tratte da un catalogo americano di 
vendita per corrispondenza, premettendo che in Italia non esiste una simile 
diffusione di vendita e soprattutto la sofisticazione che troviamo qui negli U.S.A. 
dove tale mezzo ha una lunga tradizione. I] catalogo in questione é quello della 
“Peterman Company”. Ci sono due elementi che rendono questo catalogo unico e 
anche confermano |’apparente paradosso che le immagini hanno poi uno strano 
bisogno di essere raccontate. Come si pud vedere, gli abiti sono disegnati e non 
fotografati, sono come sospesi nel niente ma nel disegno posseggono le pieghe, la 
morbidezza, dando cosi |’illusione di essere indossati da un corpo immaginario 
messo in scena proprio dal racconto che se ne fa. I] corpo é cosi evocato attraverso 
il rapporto tra l’immagine e il testo che l’accompagna o la sua narrazione. La 
descrizione dell’abito, il relativo prezzo sono relegati al fondo della pagina in 
caratteri pil! minuscoli. La cosa pil importante sembra essere |’atmosfera, il 
racconto invocato dall’abito. Vediamo qui in gioco vari elementi tra cui, da una 
parte il passato, |’abito rétro, rappresentato dall’abito rosso a pois (Figura 4) e 
dall’altra, la rottura delle tradizioni, la donna avventurosa che viaggia, esplora 
libera dagli stessi condizionamenti del passato (Figura 5). E ancora sul mito 
dell’oggetto poco comune da associare a donne altrettanto tali, o “donne che si 
vestono solo per se stesse, che trovano cose qua e la, ad Oslo e Kyoto o 
sull’Atlantic Ave. a Brooklyn” (Figura 6), non bisogna far altro che chiamare 
gratuitamente e verra consegnato alla porta di casa, il /ook, maschera o storia 
prescelta. Questi sono solo degli esempi, ma dal catalogo se ne possono trarre molti 
altri quasi a volerci ricordare che il potere dell’ immagine nella moda consiste nella 
capacita di restare il pil a lungo possibile nella nostra memoria. Qui |’immagine o 
la fotografia di moda aspira ad assumere maggiore spessore e significato grazie alla 
cornice ermeneutica che gli conferisce la catena narrativa visiva e verbale. 
Paradossalmente poi queste parole e narrazioni proliferano in una societa che é stata 
definita unicamente dell’immagine. 

In realta, i livelli narrativi della retorica dell’ immagine e le sue ideologie sono 
molto pit intimamente legate di quello che puod rivelare un primo sguardo 
superficiale. La moda é sempre catturata nella inevitabile circolarita tra il momento 
utopico del presente e la sua morte costante come ci ricorda Leopardi nel suo noto 
“Dialogo tra la Moda e la Morte” dove non a caso le chiama sorelle. Ma non é poi 
il presente, il momento in corso, come ci ha acutamente suggerito Benjamin, a 
rappresentare il momento decisivo della storia? “I] supermarket degli stili” in cui 
oggi siamo immersi non significa che ci siamo finalmente liberati dalla 
“pesantezza” del passato. Al contrario, sembra suggerirci che la moda rappresenta 
una traccia significativa del nostro transitorio passato e passaggio che non puo 
sfuggire la storia, e allo stesso tempo é imprigionato nella cecita della sua esistenza 
utopica. Allora il presente é inghiottito dalla sua stessa parodia, nel definirsi in un 
processo continuo di inevitabile disintegrazione che pur deridendo passato e futuro 
non rinuncia a raccontarli, narrando magari come meglio gli garba o ricorda. Cosi 
la moda che vive tra l’utopia del presente e la saggezza del passato ci rimanda i suoi 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 331 


simulacri, feticci, maschere descrivendoci le mitologie di questi e altri tempi. 
Queens College, City University of New York 


Opere citate 


Barnard, Malcolm. Fashion as Communication. London: Routledge, 1996. 
Barthes, Roland. Systéme de la mode. Paris: Editions de Seuil, 1967. 
Benjamin, Walter. Parigi, Capitale del XIX secolo. I “Passages” di Parigi. Torino: Einaudi, 
1986. 
Bemporad, Dora Liscia, ed. I] costume nell’eta del Rinascimento. Firenze: Edifir, 1988. 
Benstock, S. and Ferris, S., eds. On Fashion. New Brunswick: Rutgers UP, 1994. 
Breward, Christopher. The Culture of Fashion: A History of Fashionable Dress. NewY ork: 
St. Martin Press, 1995. 
Buck-Morss, S. The Dialectics of Seeing. Walter Benjamin and the Arcade Project. 
Cambridge: The MIT Press, 1989. 
Castiglione, Baldesar. // libro del cortegiano. Ed. Walter Barberis. Torino: Einaudi, 1998. 
Ceriani, Giulia e Grandi, Roberto, eds. Moda: Regole e rappresentazioni. Il cambiamento, 
il sistema, la comunicazione. Milano: Franco Angeli, 1996. 
Forgacs, David and Lumley, Robert, eds. Italian Cultural Studies. An Introduction. Oxford: 
UP, 1996. 
Gaines, Jane and Herzog, Charlotte, eds. Fabrications: Costume and the Female Body. New 
York: Routledge, 1990. 
Hollander, Anne. Sex and Suits: The Evolution of Modern Dress. New York: Knopf, 1994. 
Kaplan, Louise J. Female Perversions: The Temptations of Emma Bovary. New York: 
Doubleday, 1991. 
Leopardi, Giacomo. Dialogo della moda e della morte. Operette morali. Ed. S. Solmi. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1976. 
Levi Pisetzki, Rosita. Storia del costume in Italia. 5 vols. Milano:Bompiani, 1964-69. 
. 11 costume e la moda nella societa italiana. Torino: 1978. 
Liscia Bemporad, Dora, ed. J] costume nell’eta del Rinascimento. Firenze: Edifir, 1988. 
Marrone, Gianfranco. // sistema di Barthes. Milano: Bompiani, 1994. 
McRobbie, Angela. Zoot Suits and Second-Hand Dresses: An Anthology of Fashion and 
Music. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1988. 
. Feminism and Youth Culture. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1991. 
Parini, Giuseppe. J] giorno. Poesie e prose varie. Ed. Lanfranco Caretti. Firenze: Le 
Monnier, 1969. 
Pasolini, Pier Paolo. Scritti corsari. Milano: Garzanti, 1975. 
Polhemus, Ted and Procter, L. Fashion and Anti-Fashion: An Anthropology of Clothing and 
Adornment. London: Thames and Hudson, 1978. 
. Streetstyle: From Sidewalk to Catwalk. London: Thames and Hudson, 1994. 
Quintavalle, Carlo Arturo. La scena della moda. Milano: 1983. 
Showalter, Elaine. “The Professor Wore Prada.” Vogue America (dicembre 1997). 
Wilson, Elizabeth. Adorned in Dreams: Fashion and Modernity. London: Virago, 1985. 
Wilson, Elizabeth and Ash, Juliet, eds. Chic Thrills: A Fashion Reader. London: Pandora, 
1992. 


332 Eugenia Paulicelli 


Figura 1. Abito da sposa “conceptual chic’ di Zandra Rhodes. 


trickle 





Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 333 


Figura 2. Abito da sera, con spille di sicurezza di Gianni Versace 





334 Eugenia Paulicelli 


Figura 3. Giubbotto di pelle nera da motociclista, reso famoso da Marlon Brando 
nel suo film The Wild One del 1954 





Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 335 


Figura 4. Abito rétro, rappresentato dall’abito rosso a pois 








'40s Silk Polka-Dot. 





You've already worn this 
dress: in your other life, in 
the ‘40s. 

You wore it the night 
you danced the night away 
with the tall young naval 
officer, resplendent in his 
dress-white uniform. 

You wore it to the train 
station, where you said good- 
bye to him forever. 

You wore it to that party in 
the Village where you met William 
Faulkner and Robert Lowell. Faulkner was gracious, courtly. Lowell 
burned with intensity. It made you weak in the knees. ; 

When you wore this dress, men told you how much you looked like 
Alexis Smith. (Or Gene Tierney. Or Myrna Loy.) It was a line, but there was 
a lot of truth to it. ‘ 

You were glamorous in this dress. 

'40s Silk Polka-Dot Dress. (Sandwashed, 16mm silk.) Length: below 
the calf, above the ankle. Full skirt. Scoop neck. Short sleeves. Princess 
style. 15-button front. 

Colors: White (almost) polka dots on a Navy background, or Cream 
polka dots on a Muted Red background. Please specify. 

Women’s sizes: 4 through 16. 

Price: $210. (Note: Dots are the size of small garbanzos; lemur eyes; 
hummingbird hearts.) 


336 


27 


Eugenia Paulicelli 


Figura 5. Freedom 


Freedom. 


Charlotte Gilman Perkins knew what women wanted. Freedom. To 
explore, to think, to move, to change. | imagine her heroines in safari 
jackets and bravely split skirts. 

If Perkins had known (or cared about) Italian design, the jackets in her 
Utopian Herland would have looked like this. 

Pragmatic. Highly mobile. Yes. But not oblivious to some interesting 
differences between the two halves of the species. 

Italian-Style Travel Jacket. Washed cotton twill, with four large button- 
flapped pockets for passport, maps, witch hazel pads, personal pepper mill, 
sketches of the Boboli Gardens. Stitched-down back belt. Flattering front 
and back darts and fitting seams. 

(Good over a silk or cotton T; even better over just you.) 

Women's sizes: 4 through 16. 

Color: British Khaki. 

Price: $88. 








800-231-7341 | 
7AM to 1AM (ET) 
24-hour FAX orders: 800-346-3081 
Overseas FAX: 606-266-6367 
Overseas phone orders: 606-268-2006 


[fe es =e ee ell 
| To order CEE" toll free | 
| 
| 


91 


Le narrative della moda. Egemonia, genere, identita 


Figura 6. Uncommon 





_ Uncommon. 





The women who capture your attention: They don’t necessarily have 
money. They don't always look like models (never walk like them). They 
dress for themselves. 

They find things here and there, in Oslo and Kyoto and Delhi and on 
Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn. Their daughters copy them. Their friends won't 
shop without them. 

Because of things like this. 


Raw Silk Vest, Fabric that is more 18th-century France than modern anywhere. Eight creamy 
ocean-pearl butions to shape the bodice (this is discreet, not inconspicuous). Jute trim at the 
neckline. Ankle length. Available in a Mayfair boutique for six times the price. Women's sizes: XS. 
S, M, L Color: Champagne slubbing and black stripe on a cream background. Price: $67 


Batiste Tunic. Purity. Of line. Of color. Not of intent. Sheer, soft voile. 
Side slit almost to your waist. As close to angelic as you'd want. 
Women's sizes: XS, S, M. L Color: Pure White. Price: $45. 


Bangle Pants. Silk and cotton loosely poured, gathering at the ankle. 
Narrow opening keeps the bangle effect from spilling over your feet. 
Makes your legs look impossibly long. Elastic waist. French seams. 
Beautiful. Exotic. Of course. And comfortable. Women’s sizes: XS, S. 
M, L Color; Golden Khaki. Price: $90. 





337 


ah 
ea ; 
Sy wit 

Sy ve ws va - 

“2, wey, ; 7 

‘YS gg tea _ 

i oa vt hii 
| re - 






Francesco Sberlati 


L’arcangelo e i grammatici. 
Antonio Gramsci storico della lingua! 


Trentaseienne brillante e dotato, raffinato connoisseur della letteratura medievale 
e rinascimentale, esperto frequentatore di biblioteche ed archivi, nel 1914 Giulio 
Bertoni, in quegli anni professore di filologia romanza all’ Universita di Friburgo, 
pubblica un corposo volume intitolato L’elemento germanico nella lingua 
italiana. Il suo lavoro trovo un’accoglienza quasi entusiastica da parte di Matteo 
Bartoli, che ne fece una recensione assai ampia, in termini favorevoli e 
lusinghieri, nel volume LXVI (1915) del Giornale storico della letteratura 
italiana. A leggere attentamente 1l’episodio oltre la componente aneddotica, 
troviamo in esso i principali riferimenti e le connessioni primarie entro cui si 
colloca gran parte della riflessione linguistica di Antonio Gramsci: l’ambiguo e 
complesso rapporto Bertoni-Bartoli (e rispettive scuole), l’influsso della filologia 
romanza, la prossimita con la linguistica tedesca, la mescidata eteroglossia 
dell’italiano, il connubio inscindibile ma accidentato di lingua e letteratura e il 
ménage ancor pill problematico tra grammatica e storia’. 

La fisionomia di Gramsci linguista, benissimo delineata dalle ricerche di 
Luigi Rosiello?, si comprende appieno proprio partendo dal confronto con 
lillustre cultura accademica rappresentata da due personaggi di prim’ ordine come 
Bartoli e Bertoni. Soprattutto quando é evidente che tale confronto punta a un 
superamento, sul piano della storia ideologica, di quella retorica unitaria e 
risorgimentale accettata senza troppe riserve dai filologi, e talora sostenuta (come 
nel caso di Bertoni) dalle tesi dell’idealismo crociano. La visione di Gramsci 
contrasta non parzialmente col disegno risorgimentale di una lingua italiana, le 
cui origini risiedono altrove che non nel riconoscimento di eventuali difformita 
tra le variegate espressioni linguistiche locali. Insistendo piuttosto sullo scambio 
dei prestiti linguistici che sulla circolazione dei testi inventariati e selezionati dai 
filologi, Gramsci conciliava con una ideologia (0, meglio, una politica) della 
cultura la sua riflessione sul processo storico-evolutivo della lingua nazionale. 


' Ancora una volta, esprimo la mia grata riconoscenza ad Andrea Battistini e a Ezio 
Raimondi per i consigli e i suggerimenti che mi hanno generosamente dispensato. 

2 Per un inquadramento generale di Gramsci critico letterario e per l’influenza delle sue 
teorie nel dibattito estetico della seconda meta del Novecento possono ancora 
consultarsi con profitto gli interventi di Garin 1958; di Petronio 1958; e di Bobbio 
1958. Non passi inosservato che tra gli studi recenti, quelli forse pid significativi per 
profondita di interpretazione provengono da studiosi non italiani: vedi Hirshbein 
1991; e Hirschfeld 1990. 

3 Rosiello 1957; 1959; 1970; 1982, poi 1986. 


Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni 


Francesco Sberlati 340 


Le recenti e puntuali verifiche di Tullio De Mauro* hanno precisato che gli 
schemi ideologici d’estrazione risorgimentale, vale a dire l’accettazione supina 
della retorica unitaria e della tematica nazionalistica e accentratrice, rimangono 
assolutamente estranei al circuito e alla qualita selettiva dell’elaborazione 
gramsciana. Risalgono ai primissimi anni della detenzione le note che gia 
indirizzano in una direzione precisa il pensiero di Gramsci, abbozzate nel Q 3 
(1930) e poi riprese ed elaborate, come vedremo, nel corso degli anni successivi. 
A proposito dell’atto di nascita della lingua italiana, e del suo presunto 
diffondersi sul territorio nazionale, egli annotava: 


Il fiorire dei Comuni da sviluppo ai volgari e l’egemonia intellettuale di Firenze da 
una unita al volgare, cioé crea un volgare illustre. Ma cos’é questo volgare illustre? E 
il fiorentino elaborato dagli intellettuali della vecchia tradizione: é il fiorentino di 
vocabolario e anche di fonetica, ma é un latino di sintassi. [...] La caduta dei Comuni e 
l’avvento del principato, la creazione di una casta di governo staccata dal popolo, 
cristallizza questo volgare, allo stesso modo che si era cristallizzato il latino 
letterario. L’italiano é di nuovo una lingua scritta e non parlata, dei dotti e non della 
nazione. [...] Di altri elementi occorre tener conto in un’analisi compiuta e credo che 
per molte quistioni la retorica nazionale del secolo scorso e i pregiudizi da essa 
incarnati non abbiano neanche spinto a fare le ricerche preliminari. Cosi: quale fu 
l’area esatta della diffusione del toscano? A Venezia, per esempio, secondo me, fu 
introdotto gia l’italiano elaborato dai dotti sullo schema latino e non ebbe mai 
entratura il fiorentino originario, nel senso che i mercanti fiorentini non fecero 
sentire la viva voce fiorentina come a Roma e a Napoli, per esempio: la lingua di 
governo continuo a essere il veneziano. Cosi per altri centri (Genova, credo). Una 
storia della lingua italiana non esiste ancora in questo senso: la grammatica storica 
non é ancora cio, anzi. [...] Mi pare che, intesa la lingua come elemento della cultura e 
quindi della storia generale e come manifestazione precipua della “nazionalita” e 
“popolarita” degli intellettuali, questo studio non sia ozioso e puramente erudito. 

(I 354-55) 


Il filologo romanzo é qui gia perfettamente solidale allo storico politico. La 
lezione appresa dalla lingua dei testi non manchera di fare avvertire la sua 
efficacia anche sul piano ideologico, cioé dell’idea storico-nazionale. La 
distinzione del carattere fortemente antipopolare degli antichi documenti in 
volgare, ritenuta decisiva da Gramsci e in pit occasioni ribadita, é espressa col 
segno inconfondibile della sua tipica irrequietezza nel Q 5 (1930-32), in una nota 
peculiarissima per l’opposizione che rivela nei confronti dello stereotipo 
romantico e risorgimentale: “In Italia i primi documenti in volgare sono dei 
giuramenti individuali per fissare la proprieta su certe terre dei conventi, o hanno 
un carattere antipopolare (‘Traite, traite, fili de putte’). Altro che spontaneita e 
autoctonia” (I 646). La distanza dalla posizione romantico-risorgimentale 
(assorbita, occorrera rammentarlo, nelle retrospettive celebrazioni unitarie 
ripetute dall’idealismo sulla linea De Sanctis-Croce) viene riaffermata da Gramsci 
negli anni seguenti. Sul piano dei presupposti teorici, il percorso che conduce ai 
momenti di massima forza argomentativa trova una fase essenziale nel Q 6 
(1930-32), dove gli accertamenti rigorosi della filologia e della storia linguistica 


4 De Mauro 1987 e soprattutto 1991. 


341 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 
si conciliano perfettamente con le ipotesi di storia politica e sociale: 


I volgari incominciano ad apparire per ragioni religiose (giuramenti militari, 
testimonianze di carattere giuridico per fissare i diritti di proprieta, prestate da 
contadini che non conoscevano il latino), frammentariamente, casualmente: che in 
volgare si scrivano opere letterarie, qualunque sia il loro valore, é ancora un fatto 
nuovo, é il fatto realmente importante. Che tra i volgari locali, uno, quello toscano, 
raggiunga una egemonia, é un altro fatto ancora, che perd occorre limitare: esso non é 
accompagnato da una egemonia politico-sociale, e percid rimane confinato a un puro 
fatto letterario. Che il volgare scritto appaia in Lombardia come prima 
manifestazione di una certa portata, & fatto da mettere in grande rilievo; che sia legata 
al patarinismo @ fatto anch’esso molto importante. In realta la borghesia nascente 
impone i propri dialetti, ma non riesce a creare una lingua nazionale. 

(II 789) 


Ma vien fatto di pensare che questo nodo tra storia politica e filologia — e 
pit’ a fondo il nesso che implica strettamente la vicenda linguistica — fosse da 
Gramsci radicalmente e con pil netta lucidita di metodo sottoposto a verifica, e 
poi ricondotto su nuove e solide basi alla questione dell’identita nazionale. La 
lingua che dopo Dante é stata usata con risultati letterari altissimi costituisce un 
serio oggetto di ripensamento teorico in tutta l’estensione dei Quaderni, centrale 
€ prioritario in sede di politica culturale della nazione. In questa luce bisognera 
guardare dunque al travaglio della fatica storico-linguistica di Gramsci, alla sua 
ricerca di un modello alternativo che aiutasse a sfuggire |’ orizzonte idilliaco e 
idealista della unitaria retorica risorgimentale. Di tale laboriosa e travagliata 
maturazione sara necessario ora richiamare almeno le fasi e i momenti di crescita 
pil significativi. 

L’identificazione, entro l’articolato mosaico della lingua nazionale, di 
molteplici tessere idiomatiche variamente intersecantesi nella funzione di lingue 
regionali, deriva a Gramsci da una escussione diretta di quei testi ampiamente 
studiati e discussi presso la scuola di Bartoli. Il portato complessivo della ricerca 
scientifica sui dialetti romanzi, e la genealogia che unisce gli studiosi chiamati a 
definirlo, si rivela in tal modo il nucleo metodologico intorno a cul 
l’elaborazione linguistica gramsciana viene articolandosi, anche nel senso di una 
continuita storiografica ed ermeneutica. E fin dalle prime lezioni bartoliane, 
come suggerito anche da Franco Lo Piparo*, Gramsci avra preso consuetudine e 
familiarita con quell’immenso patrimonio di cultura linguistica ed etnografica 
trasmesso da monografie assai ampliate in direzione tecnica, e nondimeno, stante 
il tono didascalico, protese a innovare le modalita di verifica e valutazione di 
nuclei idiomatici vitalissimi e spiccatamente produttivi. 

Senza attribuire troppa importanza alle periodizzazioni, peraltro difficilmente 
applicabili ad anni cosi convulsi e drammaticamente agitati®, si possono 
lecitamente fissare i termini ante e post quem dell’educazione del Gramsci 
linguista tra il 1911, inizio della partecipazione ai corsi universitari torinesi, e il 
1926, data dell’arresto. Gli studi regolari sono interrotti nel 1913, quando 


5 Lo Piparo 1970. 
6 Vedi Biihl 1990. Pid in generale Fiori 1966. 


Francesco Sberlati 342 


Gramsci abbandona le aule accademiche per dedicarsi completamente all’ attivita 
politica e pubblicistica, ma i Quaderni e le Lettere depongono chiaramente a 
favore di un interesse per le ricerche linguistiche protrattosi ben oltre l’avvio 
della collaborazione al Grido del popolo e, dal 1915, all’Avanti!. Con la 
carcerazione, invece, diverra molto difficile e talvolta impossibile reperire e 
ottenere i libri che interessavano’. 

Quando, nel 1911, il giovane Gramsci arriva a Torino grazie alla borsa di 
studio del Collegio “Carlo Alberto”, la scuola neolinguistica di Matteo Giulio 
Bartoli stava muovendo i primi passi. Bartoli, infatti, era stato chiamato solo 
pochi anni prima, nel 1907, ad occupare la cattedra di “Storia comparata delle 
lingue classiche e neolatine” deli’ Universita torinese, cattedra che negli anni 
successivi mutOd la sua denominazione in “Linguistica” e, in seguito, 
“Dialettologia”. Nonostante la sua giovane eta (era nato nel 1873 a Albona 
d’Istria, oggi Labin), Bartoli godeva di una certa autorevolezza scientifica, che gli 
derivava dal fatto di essere stato allievo di Wilhelm Meyer-Liibke, del quale 
tradusse 1|’/talienische Grammatik (Leipzig 1890) in una edizione molto 
rielaborata (Torino 1901), e poi di Jules Gilliéron a Parigi presso l’Ecole des 
Hautes Etudes. Il Bartoli proveniva dalla scuola neogrammatica, specificamente 
da quella parte di essa fortemente influenzata dai lavori di Hermann Paul, autore 
dei Prinzipien der Sprachgeschichte (Halle 1880) e direttore del Grundiss der 
germanischen Philologie (Strassburg 1891-1893). Ma seppe anche seguire con 
interesse le nuove correnti, e in particolare quella della geografia linguistica, di 
cui adottd in eta matura le teorie pit accreditate, pervenendo in tal modo a 
risultati eclettici ma eccellenti. Va nondimeno tenuto presente che in questi anni 
egli non aveva ancora pubblicato la sua fondamentale Jntroduzione alla 
neolinguistica, che uscira a Ginevra solo nel 1925, e quindi solo un anno prima 
dell’ incarcerazione di Gramsci. 

Tuttavia, tramite le lezioni bartoliane, il giovane Gramsci avra imparato a 
conoscere e utilizzare almeno |’ Atlas linguistique de la France ideato e promosso 
proprio da Gilliéron tra 1897 e 1901, e pubblicato per fascicoli dal 1902 al 1912. 
Presumibilmente altre conoscenze specialistiche Gramsci apprese 
dall’insegnamento di Bartoli, per il quale la romanistica non poteva procedere se 
non in diretto e costante confronto con la germanistica. Né pare inverosimile 
ritenere che al giovane e dotato studente di linguistica fossero noti altri strumenti 
preziosi dai quali egli avrebbe poi derivato indicazioni non secondarie circa la 
disposizione territoriale dei dialetti. In primo luogo lo Sprachatlas von Nord- und 
Mitteldeutschland (Strassburg 1881) di Georg Wenker, in cui forse per la prima 
volta, e comunque in anticipo sull’Atlas di Gilliéron, le caratteristiche fonetiche 
dei dialetti venivano rappresentate con I’ausilio delle carte geografiche, mentre le 
informazioni principali derivavano da un questionario distribuito ai maestri 
elementari. E poi, quasi sicuramente, la Deutsche Dialektgeographie (Marburg 
1908 sgg.) di Ferdinand Wrede, studioso ben noto a Bartoli, autore di uno dei 
contributi primari sui germanismi di superstrato nell’antico italiano, intitolato 
Uber die Sprache der Ostgoten in Italien (Strassburg 1891), e poi coordinatore, 
dal 1926 al 1934, anno della morte, del Deutscher Sprachatlas. Dalla filologia 


7 Vedi qui nota 22. 


343 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


germanica, dunque, piuttosto che dalla filologia romanza, provenivano gli 
impulsi e gli stimoli pid accattivanti e produttivi. Erano anni di dibattiti e di 
aspre polemiche, come dimostra la critica severa mossa a Wenker da Otto Bremer 
nei Beitriige zur Geographie der deutschen Mundarten (Leipzig 1895), o il 
tracciato alternativo proposto con grande lungimiranza da Hermann Fischer nella 
Geographie der schwébischen Mundart (Tiibingen 1895). Ma erano anche anni di 
profonde innovazioni sul piano del metodo della ricerca linguistica, e senza 
dubbio quel grande maestro di Bartoli doveva aver ben presente il quadro 
completo dei riferimenti primari, poi trasfusi con sapiente prassi pedagogica nei 
corsi e nei seminari frequentati con regolarita e passione dall’ affascinato studente 
Gramsci, al quale Bartoli guardava affettuosamente come suo probabile 
successore sulla cattedra torinese®. Di tutto cid occorrera tener conto se si vuol 
affrontare con la dovuta cautela la maturazione graduale, se non il disegno 
definitivo, della teoria linguistica di Antonio Gramsci. 

Sullo scorcio del secolo romantico, Gramsci affrontava dunque la questione 
linguistica in termini assolutamente incongrui alle idealita unitarie della 
tradizione risorgimentale, e piuttosto identificabili quali espressioni di un 
messaggio teorico fortemente anticrociano’. Per apprezzare le variazioni di 
tensione e i passaggi pil significativi della riflessione gramsciana, occorre 
innanzitutto riconoscere il vivo e complesso dinamismo del suo sistema di 
pensiero: gli strumenti adeguati ad individuare nelle varie sezioni dei Quaderni la 
continuita problematica anche in sede di elaborazione linguistica non sono 
facilmente definibili. Nella sua efficace sintesi ricapitolativa, Raoul Mordenti!° 
ha giustamente chiarito che nel caso dei Quaderni mancano sicuri appigli per una 
precisa restituzione del flusso diacronico-elaborativo, e pertanto la seriazione 
delle fasi scrittorie fissate nelle pagine autografe pone problemi spesso 


8 E bellissima e commovente la testimonianza che Gramsci stesso ci fornisce in 
proposito, nella lettera a Tatiana del 19 marzo 1927 (dal carcere di Milano): “Uno dei 
maggiori ‘rimorsi’ intellettuali della mia vita é il dolore profondo che ho procurato al 
mio buon professor Bartoli dell’ Universita di Torino, il quale era persuaso essere io 
l’arcangelo destinato a profligare definitivamente i ‘neogrammatici’, poiché egli, 
della stessa generazione e legato da milioni di fili accademici a questa geldra di 
infamissimi uomini, non voleva andare, nelle sue enunciazioni, oltre un certo limite 
fissato dalle convenienze e dalla aderenza ai vecchi monumenti funerari 
dell’erudizione” (Gramsci, Lettere 27-28). Il passo @ importante in quanto ci rassicura 
sulla conoscenza da parte di Gramsci dei due principali e concorrenti filoni della 
linguistica tedesca otto e primonovecentesca, vale a dire la scuola neogrammatica da 
una parte e la geografia linguistica dall’altra. 

9 Sul complicato e talora contraddittorio rapporto tra la riflessione gramsciana e 
l’idealismo crociano vedi Maggi 1994; De Castris 1989; Vallone 1985; Tertullian 
1990. Possono essere utili anche gli studi di Nemeth 1980; Finocchiaro 1988. Pit in 
generale, per la fisionomia intellettuale di Gramsci, vedi Buttigieg 1987; Joll 1978; 
Romano 1965. 

10 Mordenti 1996: 568-85, cui si rinvia anche per riferimenti bibliografici diversi da 
quelli qui segnalati (622-29). Per una lettura critica delle tematiche e dei contenuti dei 
Quaderni vedi Heeger 1975; Adamson 1980; Showstack Sassoon 19872; Kebir 1991. 


Francesco Sberlati 344 


irresolubili. Tuttavia, se si vuole riportare alla luce la sequenza delle successive e 
stratificate volonta di testo che Gramsci affidd alle mobili strutture di un libro in 
progress, bisogna pensare ai Quaderni come ad una raccolta organica e non come 
ad un semplice archivio disordinato di note. In tal modo, il diagramma della 
genesi testuale si approfondira in prospettiva storico-culturale, rendendo espliciti 
i legami tra quelle note e l’incrociarsi delle suggestioni esterne, delle revisioni e 
delle pur lievi correzioni del tracciato. 

Sebbene accostabile all’idea ascoliana per quel che attiene il quadro di un 
processo struttivo sostanzialmente plurilingue, il pensiero di Gramsci se ne 
allontana per un punto fondamentale. Mentre Ascoli, come ha confermato 
recentemente Carlo Dionisotti!!, puntava a tematizzare la storia linguistica 
ricostruendo il massimo potenziale di espressivita operante nella sommessa 
vivificazione dialettale (e certo avviando la ricerca su un tracciato nuovissimo che 
agiva in forza di una volonta di riesumazione e di recupero), Gramsci suppliva 
alla mancanza di unitarieta ravvisando nel processo di perfezionamento 
dell’ organismo formale |’ espressione storica della diacronia linguistica, per niente 
ritenuta conclusiva. Nel Q 29 (1935), nel quale la riflessione insiste sulla 
“irradiazione di innovazioni linguistiche” valutata in stretto rapporto col 
“conformismo nazionale linguistico”, specificava: 


Poiché il processo di formazione, di diffusione e di sviluppo di una lingua 
nazionale unitaria avviene attraverso tutto un complesso di processi molecolari, é 
utile avere consapevolezza di tutto il processo nel suo complesso, per essere in grado 
di intervenire attivamente in esso col massimo di risultato. Questo intervento non 
bisogna considerarlo come “decisivo” e immaginare che i fini proposti saranno tutti 


11 Dionisotti 1993: 424: “per Ascoli, per la sua formazione prima, per il suo 
magistero poi, vale la dimensione internazionale degli studi ebraici: era un livello pid 
alto che non quello, normale, degli studi italiani. Ma l’occhio filologico dell’ebreo 
goriziano, addestrato a guardare lontano, nello spazio e nel tempo, anche vedeva 
meglio, con maggiore attenzione e imparzialita, intorno a sé. La padronanza della 
lingua tedesca lo assicurava nei rapporti esterni con la nuova filologia che in 
Germania aveva la sua patria, e l’appartenenza, in zona confinaria, a una minoranza 
linguistica e religiosa gli consentiva una neutralita politica nello studio dei dialetti e 
delle lingue vive, quali che fossero, neutralita rara nell’Italia risorgimentale. [...] La 
curiosita di Ascoli per i dialetti e per eccentriche, isolate minoranze linguistiche, era 
Originaria [...] e non venne mai meno”. Istruttivo notare che, come sottolinea 
Dionisotti, per Ascoli (al pari di Gramsci) i dialetti rappresentavano un privilegiato 
settore di indagine (“l’attraentissimo campo de’ dialetti italiani”), in quanto essi non 
solo costituivano “importanti fenomeni fonetici”, ma anche e soprattutto perché 
consentivano di approfondire |’aspetto storico-culturale della ricerca glottologica: 
“additamenti etnografici e storici, preziose vestigie di costumanze e tradizioni 
antiche e mirabili argomenti d’unita in mezzo alla mirabile stravaganza, attendono 
ne’ dialetti nostri l’occhio scrutatore della scienza”. E fin troppo evidente 1’ analogia 
con la riflessione che Gramsci conduce in parallelo sui dialetti e sul folclore. Né andra 
sottostimata un’altra non secondaria affinita tra Ascoli e Gramsci, e cioé l’essere 
entrambi, per provenienza geografica, stranieri all’ Italia. 


345 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


raggiunti nei loro particolari, che cioé si otterra una determinata lingua unitaria: si 
otterra una lingua unitaria, se essa & una necessita, e l’intervento organizzato 
accelerera i tempi del processo gia esistente; quale sia per essere questa lingua non si 
puo prevedere e stabilire: in ogni caso, se l’intervento @ “razionale”, essa sara 
organicamente legata alla tradizione, cid che non é di poca importanza nell’ economia 
della cultura. 

(III 2345-46) 


Il progresso € forse la componente ideologica su cui é misurato 
l’ordinamento del pensiero di Gramsci. L’idea storiografica che sta alla base della 
sua riflessione linguistica é quella della possibilita di integrare in una linea di 
sviluppo coerente tutte le esperienze percepite come diverse ma nel contempo 
omologabili (“un complesso di processi molecolari”). E insomma la 
constatazione che quell’idea di progresso si esplica soprattuttv nella scansione 
delle tappe progressive dell’evoluzione linguistica. L’ apprendimento della lingua 
comune va esercitato per Gramsci in stretta connessione con I’esaltazione delle 
liberta civili e dei valori sociologici ad esse collegati. Nel Q 2/, la cui stesura si 
protrae sino agli anni estremi (1934-35), facendo fronte a gravi sofferenze fisiche, 
Gramsci non tralascia di ritornare ancora una volta sulla “quistione della lingua”, 
collocandola in stretto rapporto con la situazione di arretratezza politica e 
culturale dell’ Italia: 


La quistione non é nata oggi: essa si @ posta fin dalla fondazione dello Stato italiano, 
e la sua esistenza anteriore é un documento per spiegare il ritardo della formazione 
politico-nazionale unitaria della penisola. [...] Anche la quistione della lingua posta 
dal Manzoni riflette questo problema, il problema della unita intellettuale e morale 
della nazione e dello Stato, ricercato nell’unita della lingua. Ma l’unita della lingua é 
uno dei modi esterni e non esclusivamente necessario dell’unita nazionale: in ogni 
caso é un effetto e non una causa. 

(III 2117-18) 


Il rapporto storico fra testualita e lingua nazionale in Italia, ammissibile sul 
piano documentario sin dal De vulgari eloquentia dantesco, rappresenta per 
Gramsci un cogente contributo alla maturazione teorica della questione. I] suo 
intervento punta infatti a sollecitare un’ampia riflessione storicistica!? nella 
quale la disamina dei singoli settori di competenza — dalla filologia alla 
dialettologia — vadano oltre la strumentazione specialistica, senza nulla togliere 
alle esaustive analisi di dettaglio, per consentire un’estensione del discorso lungo 
l’asse secolare della vita sociale e comunitaria. E la cornice storico-politica, 
insomma, che deve aderire in profondo alla stessa riflessione linguistica, al suo 
bisogno di limpidezza e di funzionalita, e che nondimeno deve agire entro 
l’orizzonte pil specificamente letterario. Questa progettualita, sia pure interrotta 
ad una fase di preparazione e di abbozzo, trapela con chiarezza nel Q 29, uno dei 
testimoni pit significativi di quell’intenso e fecondo lavoro, in cui proprio il 
“libretto di Dante” da l’avvio alla direzione della ricerca: 


12 Per la componente storicista nel pensiero gramsciano vedi Morera 1990; Ranke 
1989; Herrera 1991. 


Francesco Sberlati 346 


Pare chiaro che il De Vulgari Eloquio di Dante sia da considerare come essenzialmente 
un atto di politica culturale-nazionale (nel senso che nazionale aveva in quel tempo e 
in Dante), come un aspetto della lotta politica @ stata sempre quella che viene 
chiamata la “‘quistione della lingua” che da questo punto di vista diventa interessante 
da studiare. [...] I] libretto di Dante ha anch’esso non piccolo significato per il tempo 
in cui fu scritto; non solo di fatto, ma elevando il fatto a teoria, gli intellettuali 
italiani del periodo pid rigoglioso dei Comuni, “rompono” col latino e giustificano il 
volgare, esaltandolo contro il “mandarinismo” latineggiante, nello stesso tempo in 
cui il volgare ha cosi grandi manifestazioni artistiche. Che il tentativo di Dante abbia 
avuto enorme importanza innovatrice, si vede pil tardi col ritorno del latino a lingua 
delle persone colte (e qui puOd innestarsi la quistione del doppio aspetto 
dell’ Umanesimo e del Rinascimento, che furono essenzialmente reazionari dal punto 
di vista nazionale-popolare e progressivi come espressione dello sviluppo culturale 
dei gruppi intellettuali italiani e europei). 

(II 2350) 


La messa a punto di un modello standardizzato di lingua sempre pit 
omogenea e solidale a un progetto letterario (che trova ampio spazio e 
appagamento dal processo cinquecentesco della normativa bembiana sino alla 
riplasmazione in schemi pill operativi messa a punto da Manzoni) stimola in 
Gramsci un principio dialettico che punta al recupero delle aree marginali e delle 
energie linguisticamente vitalissime per secoli discriminate in quanto forme di 
oralita. Negli anni immediatamente successivi al 1930, la sua riflessione acquista 
un ulteriore elemento che non sara improprio, forse, definire dialettologico, e 
chiaramente espresso, ad esempio, nelle osservazioni dedicate a Capuana e 
Pirandello!3: ma esse, lo si vedra, andranno comunque collocate all’ interno di un 
disegno analitico assai pil esteso ed ampliato. La precisa consapevolezza della 
componente dialettale insita nella lingua italiana comune é espressa senza dubbi 
nel Q 23 (1934), in un passo che per rilevanza di contenuti sara opportuno 
richiamare per intero: 


In realta in Italia esistono molte lingue “popolari” e sono i dialetti regionali che 
vengono solitamente parlati nella conversazione intima, in cui si esprimono i 
sentimenti e gli affetti pid comuni e diffusi; la lingua letteraria @ ancora, per molta 
parte, una lingua cosmopolita, una specie di “esperanto”, cioé limitata 
all’espressione di sentimenti e nozioni parziali ecc. Quando si dice che la lingua 
letteraria ha una grande ricchezza di mezzi espressivi, si afferma una cosa equivoca ed 
ambigua; si confonde la ricchezza espressiva “possibile” registrata nel vocabolario, 
oO contenuta inerte negli “autori”, con la ricchezza individuale, che si pud spendere 
individualmente; ma é quest’ultima la sola ricchezza reale e concreta ed é su di essa che 
$i pud misurare il grado di unita linguistica nazionale che é data dalla vivente parlata 
del popolo, dal grado di nazionalizzazione del patrimonio linguistico. 

(III 2235) 


Non puo non colpire la valutazione positiva che si da della matrice 
dialettale, in quanto essa costituisce per Gramsci, come dira pid tardi nel gia 


13 Vedi in particolare Hégemann 1990; e Cherchi 1968. 


347 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


evocato Q 29, uno dei “focolai d’irradiazione di innovazioni linguistiche”, vale a 
dire il decisivo contributo “dato dalla vivente parlata del popolo”. L’indizio 
lessicale é importantissimo e non va sottostimato. Non sfuggira la coincidenza 
della definizione (“vivente”) con le dichiarazioni metodologiche di quella scuola 
nutrita di filosofia hegeliana e positivismo naturalistico che considerava le lingue 
come ‘organismi viventi’, determinando di esse le successive fasi di ‘nascita’, 
‘vita’ e ‘morte’. Scuola tutta ottocentesca, i cui procedimenti dipendevano in 
sostanza da Die Darwinsche Theorie und die Sprachwissenschaft di August 
Schleicher (1821-1868), poi riprodotti in disposizioni scientificamente operative 
da Arséne Darmesteter nel celebre libro su La vie des mots (Paris 1887), e in 
modo forse pil induttivo dall’americano William Dwight Whitney in The Life 
and Growth of Language (London 1875), opera che esercitO grande influenza 
sull’assetto argomentativo della linguistica europea e americana alla fine del 
secolo XIX, e della quale Francesco D’Ovidio procuro sin dall’anno successivo 
all’edizione originale un’ottima traduzione italiana, intitolata La vita e lo 
sviluppo del linguaggio (Milano 1876). 

Siamo ricondotti cosi alla stagione pil antica dell’arco elaborativo 
gramsciano intorno alla “quistione della lingua”, quella dell’ apprendistato 
torinese presso la scuola glottologica di Matteo Bartoli. L’esperienza “vitale” 
della lingua, quest’ Erlebnis difficilmente negabile, serve a Gramsci per insistere 
sulla necessita dell’evoluzione storica e per dosare correttamente all’interno del 
paradigma epistemologico la posologia delle articolazioni sincroniche e/o 
diacroniche. La scelta di uno spazio metodologico nuovo, in grado di superare la 
distanza fra indagine storiografica e quella linguistica, si mostra gia ben assestata 
fin dalle primissime stesure dei Quaderni. Proprio all’inizio della carcerazione 
risalgono le note sulla riflessione incentrata sui dialetti, e sul ruolo da essi 
svolto nella ricerca collettivamente vissuta di un fondamento linguistico comune 
all’intera nazione. II nucleo essenziale del pensiero gramsciano é gia configurato 
nel Q J (1929-30), nella fase iniziale di una meditazione linguistica poi elaborata 
e perfezionata negli anni successivi, ma sempre preoccupata di mantenere aperta 
la divaricazione fra effettive lingue regionalistiche e una ipotetica lingua 
nazionale fissata “per decreto legge”: 


tra la classe colta e il popolo c’é una grande distanza: la lingua del popolo é 
ancora il dialetto, col sussidio di un gergo italianizzante che é in gran parte il dialetto 
tradotto meccanicamente. Esiste un forte influsso dei vari dialetti nella lingua scritta, 
perché anche la classe colta parla la lingua in certi momenti e il dialetto nella parlata 
famigliare, cioé in quella pil’ viva e aderente alla realta immediata. Cosi la lingua é 
sempre un po’ fossilizzata e paludata e quando vuol essere famigliare, si frange in 
tanti riflessi dialettali. [...] L’italiano @ la lingua di una casta chiusa, senza contatto 
con una parlata storica. Non é questa forse la quistione posta dal Manzoni, di ritornare 
all’egemonia fiorentina e ribattuta dall’Ascoli che, storicista, non crede alle 
egemonie linguistiche per decreto legge, senza la struttura economico-culturale? 

(I 81-82) !4 


14E assai significativo notare che la nota viene ripresa e trascritta, con minime ma 
puntuali variazioni, in un Quaderno molto pid tardo, il Q 23, di circa cinque anni 
posteriore (1934), in cui appunto si legge: “tra la classe colta e il popolo c’é un 


Francesco Sberlati 348 


Soprattutto centrale, e legata per molti aspetti al noviziato glottologico con 
Bartoli, é V’idea di un’applicabilita degli strumenti filologico-linguistici 
all’interno di un ambito che diremmo oggi di sociologia della cultura. Occorre 
pero giungere agli anni compresi tra 1934 e ’35 per trovare formulata quella 
gerarchia articolata entro la quale Gramsci trasferi e suddivise funzionalmente gli 
strumenti utili a conseguire l’unita linguistica secondo criteri latamente 
comunicativi. Nel Q 29 li troviamo elencati in successione (non sfugga, ancora 
una volta, l’importanza assegnata agli strati dialettali): “1) La scuola; 2) i 
giornali; 3) gli scrittori d’arte e quelli popolari; 4) il teatro e il cinematografo 
sonoro; 5) la radio; 6) le riunioni pubbliche di ogni genere, comprese quelle 
religiose; 7) i rapporti di ‘conversazione’ tra i vari strati della popolazione pit 
colti e meno colti; 8) i dialetti locali, intesi in diversi sensi (dai dialetti pit 
localizzati a quelli che abbracciano complessi regionali pit o meno vasti: cosi il 
napoletano per |’Italia meridionale, il palermitano e il catanese per la Sicilia, 
ecc.)” (III 2345). 

Il magistero bartoliano della “linguistica spaziale” trova al punto 8) la sua 
applicazione coerentemente mediata, ed anzi metabolizzata all’interno di una 
trattazione assai solidale al tracciato esplorativo segnato dal linguista torinese. Al 
recupero di questa fertile prospettiva, che a Gramsci offriva l’opportunita di 
specificare il significato latamente antropologico ancor prima che linguistico 
della sua riflessione, servivano, oltre ai grandi studi tedeschi, anche i contributi 
dei ricercatori italiani. Ovviamente 1 Saggi ladini (1873) di Graziadio Isaia Ascoli 
rappresentano 11 fulcro pit solido ed intimo delle ricerche condotte da Bartoli e 
dalla sua scuola. Ma, per quanto riguarda Gramsci, non deve sfuggire che un 
primo dato distintivo va colto nell’aspetto biografico, cioé nelle sue stesse 
origini. In quanto sardo, la sua lingua materna e nativa era necessariamente 
straniera all’italiano, ed anche le sue successive determinazioni di rapporti, di 
legami, di vicinanze e di lontananze avranno contribuito, a seconda delle 
circostanze, a marcare quella differenza. Come linguista esperto, Gramsci sapeva 
che il Sardo appartiene ad una famiglia linguistica del tutto autonoma al gruppo 
dei dialetti italiani, né gli sara stata ignota un’opera quale l’Ortografia Sarda 
nazionale, ossia Grammatica della Lingua Logudorese (1840) di Giovanni Spano, 
che di quella estraneita forniva ampie spiegazioni anche storiche. Fin dall’epoca 


distacco marcato: la lingua del popolo é ancora il dialetto, col sussidio di un gergo 
italianizzante che in gran parte é il dialetto tradotto meccanicamente. Esiste inoltre 
un forte influsso dei vari dialetti nella lingua scritta, perché anche la cosi detta classe 
colta parla la lingua nazionale in certi momenti e i dialetti nella parlata famigliare, 
cioé in quella pil viva e aderente alla realta immediata; d’altra parte, perd, la reazione 
ai dialetti, fa si che, nello stesso tempo, la lingua nazionale rimanga un po’ 
fossilizzata e paludata e quando vuol essere famigliare si frange in tanti riflessi 
dialettali. [...] L’italiano diventa sempre pit la lingua di una casta chiusa, senza 
contatto vivo con una parlata storica. Non @ questa forse la quistione posta dal 
Manzoni, di ritornare a un’egemonia fiorentina con mezzi statali, ribattuta 
dall’ Ascoli, che, pid storicista, non crede alle egemonie culturali per decreto, non 
sorrette cioé da una funzione nazionale pit profonda e necessaria?” (III 2236-37). 


349 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


degli studi con Bartoli, Gramsci era andato raccogliendo dati e informazioni 
sull’argomento, non trascurando di toccare, in prospettiva interdisciplinare, 
l’aspetto etnografico del folclore. Un inevitabile punto di verifica fin dagli anni 
giovanili fu il confronto con la massiccia documentazione raccolta e selezionata 
dalla tradizionale dialettologia italiana. Che non aveva ancora raggiunto i vertici 
scientifici della dialettologia tedesca di stampo neogrammatico, o pit ancora della 
geografia linguistica, ma che pur sempre offriva allo studioso un larghissimo 
patrimonio lessicografico, costituito dalla catalogazione ragionata di voci 
assolutamente estranee al cosiddetto italiano comune. 

Accostabile ai saggi di Ascoli e Bartoli, specialmente per la peculiare 
operazione di trascrizione linguistica svolta sulla molteplicita dei registri 
dialettali compresenti nella Penisola, é la Raccolta di dialetti italiani con 
illustrazioni etnologiche (Firenze 1864) approntata da Attilio Zuccagni- 
Orlandini, seguita a distanza di un decennio da un’altra prova precorritrice della 
linguistica “spaziale” e della Dialektgeographie, ovvero I parlari italiani a 
Certaldo alla festa del V Centenario di Giovanni Boccaccio (Livorno 1875) di 
Giovanni Papanti. Ed é perlomeno suggestivo immaginare che il giovane 
Gramsci possa aver veduto e consultato queste raccolte, traendone il primo 
impulso per avvicinare la questione con ben altri strumenti, quelli adibiti 
appunto in funzione strettamente scientifica dai glottologi tedeschi e francesi. 
Sulla formazione e sull’educazione di Gramsci giovane e onnivoro linguista non 
avranno mancato di imprimersi altre suggestioni. Un’equilibratura teorica che 
sembra coincidere coll’impostazione gramsciana si coglie pure nel punto di vista 
adottato da Bernardino Biondelli nel Saggio sui dialetti gallo-italici (Milano 
1853-1856) e ancor pil, per il coinvolgimento dell’istanza sociologica e 
folcloristica, negli Studi sulle lingue furbesche (Milano 1846), opera ancora 
utilissima per lo studio della robusta corrente burchiellesca e gergale che 
attraversa buona parte della letteratura italiana. 

Negli anni della detenzione, Gramsci conquista una sua misura dotata di 
piena autonomia rispetto alle tesi dell’insigne e mai dimenticato maestro, dalle 
quali egli non manchera di allontanarsi qualora mostrino limiti ed 
inadeguatezze!5. Anzi, proprio questo moto oscillatorio di separazione e 
ricongiungimento nei confronti dell’insegnamento bartoliano ritma i tempi della 
vibrante riflessione gramsciana. Tuttavia non sara senza valore constatare che 
persino in anni tardi (Q 29) alle forti riserve sui reali portati delle tematiche 
crociane (espresse specialmente dalla corrente idealistica che fa capo a Giulio 
Bertoni!®), Gramsci richiama per contrasto ancora una volta le ricerche del 


15 Per esempio, nel Q 29, a proposito del discorso su “Quistioni linguistiche e diritti 
nazionali” tenuto da Bartoli per l’inaugurazione dell’anno accademico torinese del 
1934, dunque otto anni dopo |’inizio della sua detenzione carceraria (8 novembre 
1926), e pubblicato l’anno successivo, Gramsci annota: “Pare [...] che il discorso sia 
molto discutibile per alcune parti generali: per es., l’affermazione che ‘l’Italia 
dialettale @ una e indivisibile” (III 2350-51). 

16 Vedi appunto la nota del Q 6 (1930-32): “Se il Bertoni ‘rivive il pensiero crociano’ 
ma anzi lo arricchisce, e il Croce si riconosce nel Bertoni, occorre dire che il Croce 
stesso deve essere riveduto e corretto: ma a me pare che il Croce sia stato molto 


Francesco Sberlati 350 


maestro, forse non ancora adeguatamente comprese dalla cultura linguistica (0 
accademica?) nazionale: 


appare come anche dai cosi detti “‘idealisti” non sia compreso il rinnovamento che 
nella scienza del linguaggio hanno portato le dottrine del Bartoli. La tendenza 
dell’“‘idealismo” ha trovato la sua espressione pit. compiuta nel Bertoni: si tratta di un 
ritorno a vecchie concezioni rettoriche, sulle parole “belle” e “brutte” in sé e per sé, 
concezioni riverniciate con un nuovo linguaggio pseudo-scientifico. In realta, si 
cerca di trovare una giustificazione estrinseca della grammatica normativa, dopo 
averne altrettanto estrinsecamente “mostrato” la “inutilita” teoretica e anche pratica. 

(III 2347-48) 


Ed é altresi notevole constatare che Gramsci si preoccupi sin dalle prime 
riflessioni di separare nettamente il maestro Bartoli dalle teorie linguistiche di 
Croce e dei crociani. Il suo proposito é appunto quello di rivendicare per Bartoli 
(e per sé) una totale autonomia dagli orizzonti dell’idealismo, come é espresso 
senza dubbi né incertezze in una delle note pit antiche, scritta presumibilmente 
nel 1930 nelle pagine del Q 3: 


A me pare che tra il metodo del Bartoli e il crocismo non ci sia nessun rapporto di 
dipendenza immediata: il rapporto @ con lo storicismo in generale, non con una 
particolare forma di storicismo. L’innovazione del Bartoli é appunto questa, che della 
linguistica, concepita grettamente come scienza naturale, ha fatto una scienza storica, 
le cui radici sono da cercare “nello spazio e nel tempo” e non nell’apparato vocale 
fisiologicamente inteso. 

(I 352) 


Il movimento negativo che coordina le opinioni di Gramsci a proposito delle 
teorie crociane risalta con particolare evidenza qualora si confrontino pit 
davvicino i due percorsi di analisi linguistica. Accennando alla continuita della 
funzione estetica nella scienza del linguaggio, nella Definizione della linguistica 
Croce ribadira esplicitamente il permanere delle tecniche stilistiche, degli 
espedienti di coesione con il formalismo letterario. I] passo, non privo di accenti 
polemici, € molto illuminante, specialmente se lo si considera in stretta 
correlazione al dibattito filologico e linguistico degli anni Venti e Trenta, e va 
percio richiamato nella sua interezza: 


Un curioso sentimento tra di gelosia e di dignita che teme di esser offesa si manifesta 
da tempo in qua tra i glottologi o linguisti d’Italia, i quali sono da cid tratti a 
protestare che la lingua @ “una realta oggettiva, sia pure di natura particolare”,che il 
linguista, e solo lui, “deve indagare con metodi propri”. Gli amici linguisti debbono 
aver pazienza e lasciare che li si preghi di considerare che, quando si domanda che 
cosa é la Linguistica, non si fa pit linguistica, ma si ricerca quale sia il carattere di una 
sorta di lavoro scientifico, cioé si fa una ricerca di logica. [...] Ora, posto che sia 
stato chiarito e consentito che il linguaggio come pura espressione s’identifica con la 
sintesi poetica 0 estetica in genere e la sua natura é la natura di questa (identita di 





indulgente col Bertoni, per non aver approfondito la quistione e per ragioni 
‘didattiche’” (II p. 701). 


351 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


filosofia dell’ arte e di filosofia del linguaggio), non percio si toglie al linguista il suo 
campo proprio. E si dira, per esempio, come ho detto io, che il linguista non é il 
critico estetico, non é il teorico del “volgare illustre” che fu Dante, non é lo storico 
delle espressioni linguistiche che sono le opere d’arte, ma @ lo storico che indaga la 
genesi dei segni fonici coi quali l’uomo nei vari tempi e luoghi esprime i suoi bisogni 
di ogni sorta e comunica a sé medesimo (parlando tra sé e sé) e agli altri uomini (non 
esclusi, a dir vero, anche altri animali, almeno alcuni di quelli domestici!) quel che 
gl’incontra o che vuole. E questa una definizione che neghi o diminuisca il linguista? 
[...] La sopradetta definizione potra essere corretta o migliorata, ma non c’é luogo a 
rigettarla come offesa alla linguistica e al linguista.!7 


Anche su questo piano, pertanto, la prassi ermeneutica di Croce conduce a 
confermare la sua appartenenza al fronte estetico (“identita di filosofia dell’ arte e 
di filosofia del linguaggio” o “la sintesi poetica o estetica in genere”), la sua 
adesione insomma al primato d’una secolare tradizione letteraria avviata e 
autorizzata in stretto rapporto genetico con la filologia della selezione 
(“espressioni linguistiche che sono le opere dell’arte”). Niente di pit. remoto 
dall’ orizzonte gramsciano. 

Pit specificamente, il diagramma storico delle testimonianze librarie 
consente di riconoscere esattamente il punto di sutura fra Bertoni e Croce nel 
disegno di filosofia del linguaggio tracciato sulla base di presupposti estetici da 
Karl Vossler!8 in Positivismus und Idealismus in der Sprachwissenschaft 
(Heidelberg 1904), tradotto in italiano dal Gnoli nel 1908. E inoltre un testo 
vossleriano come Frankreichs Kultur im Spiegel seiner Sprachentwicklung 
(Heidelberg 1913) sara stato sicuramente ben noto a Bertoni, dal quale avra 
derivato disposizioni e atteggiamenti perfettamente aderenti anche ai suoi 
specifici settori di interesse. Tanto pil significativa sara allora l’assunzione, nel 
nuovo clima culturale degli anni Venti e Trenta, del tema crociano di linguistica 
come estetica, selezionabile ed estraibile senza eccessiva difficolta dalle tappe 
della metamorfosi testuale e letteraria. Va aggiunto che uno stadio assolutamente 
fondamentale per lo sviluppo della linguistica in senso estetico, cioé 
prevalentemente dedita allo studio dei mezzi d’espressione degli autori letterari, 
puo essere ragionevolmente individuato nelle ricerche di Leo Spitzer. L’ influenza 
di opere come gli Aufsdtze zur romanischen Syntax und Stilistik (Halle 1918) e 
pil ancora come le Stilstudien (Miinchen 1928) si fara avvertire in modo assai 
coinvolgente anche in Italia, a cominciare dall’intelligente applicazione che delle 
idee spitzeriane proporranno Alfredo Schiaffini!?, Gianfranco Contini e Giacomo 
Devoto. Va tuttavia pure precisato che la datazione delle referenze bibliografiche 
consente di escludere la conoscenza diretta da parte di Gramsci dei lavori 
spitzeriani, la cui popolarita si diffonde nell’ambiente della cultura linguistica 


17 Croce 1960: IV 523-24. 

18 Non andra tralasciato, a questo proposito, il passo del Q 3 in cui Gramsci si chiede: 
“Nella ‘linguistica’ @ crociano il Vossler, ma che rapporto esiste tra il Bartoli e il 
Vossler e tra il Vossler e quella che si chiama comunemente ‘linguistica’?” (I 352). In 
pratica, Gramsci mette seriamente in dubbio che la produzione di Vossler possa 
ritenersi linguistica, e propende per accostarlo invece agli studiosi di stilistica. 

19 Vedi Segre, in corso di stampa. 


Francesco Sberlati 352 


italiana solo a partire dagli anni Quaranta (almeno presso gli studiosi pit 
lungimiranti e informati). E comunque solo dopo che la linguistica europea ha 
assorbito il manifesto programmatico del nuovo approccio stilistico, impostato 
da Charles Bally, famoso allievo di Saussure, nel suo Précis de stylistique 
(Genéve 1905) e poi ampliato e perfezionato nel Traité de stylistique francaise 
(Heidelberg-Paris 1909), pit! volte ristampato e messo a frutto pure dal Pascoli. 
Si tratta di testi nei quali la particolare distribuzione della materia apre la via ad 
una non illecita associazione con quella che di li a qualche anno corrispondera 
alla concezione sociologica della linguistica, e di cui si rinvengono ampie tracce 
negli appunti gramsciani. 

I] 1930, appunto, é l’anno emblematico per la decisiva sortita gramsciana 
contro Giulio Bertoni. Tuttavia, trattandosi in realta di una risposta piuttosto che 
d’una proposta, sara un attacco breve e forse anche eccessivamente polemico. Nel 
Q 3, ad esempio, Gramsci ironizza a proposito di alcuni studi del Bertoni, 
dicendo che essi “non sono che piccoli saggi in cui si applica puramente e 
semplicemente il metodo generale del Bartoli e furono dovuti ai suggerimenti del 
Bartoli stesso” (I 351). Con assai pit solide basi, e con tutto il bagaglio del suo 
progetto linguistico incentivato con studi e ricerche tra 1931 e ’35, Gramsci 
ritornera sulla questione nel Q 29. Ma gia da ora ha chiarito l’ideologia sottesa 
alla sua riflessione linguistica, e punta a sottolineare la continuita storica sul 
piano della tradizione linguistica senza nulla concedere a motivi di estetismo e di 
retorica. 

Bertoni pubblica nel 1930 Linguaggio e poesia, lavoro che Natalino 
Sapegno, tra gli altri, salutd con una “recensione benevola” uscita nel settembre 
dello stesso ’30 sulla rivista Pégaso. L’aspra reazione di Gramsci é 
immediatamente successiva, affidata al Q 6 (1930-32), ed avvia senza incertezze 
né ambiguita il dibattito polemico contro il crocianesimo e 1’ idealismo: 


Il Sapegno non s’accorge che la teoria del Bertoni essere la nuova linguistica una 
“sottile analisi discriminativa delle voci poetiche da quelle strumentali” é tutt’altro 
che una novita, perché si tratta del ritorno a una vecchissima concezione retorica e 
pedantesca, per cui si dividono le parole in “brutte” e “belle”, in poetiche e non 
poetiche o antipoetiche ecc., cosi come si erano similmente divise le lingue in belle e 
brutte, civili o barbariche, poetiche e prosastiche ecc. Il Bertoni non aggiunge nulla 
alla linguistica, altro che vecchi pregiudizi; ed @ maraviglioso che queste stoltezze gli 
siano passate per buone dal Croce e dagli allievi del Croce. [...] Che questi crociani 
non si accorgano di tutto questo é stupefacente e serve a indicare quale confusione il 
Bertoni abbia contribuito a diffondere in questo campo. 

(II 700) 


Il giudizio pesantemente negativo é ribadito senza ripensamenti anche nella 
lettera a Tatiana del 21 settembre 1931 (dal carcere di Turi): “Solo il Bertoni 
crede di essere crociano rimettendo fuori la vecchia teoria delle parole belle e delle 
parole brutte come novita linguistica dedotta dall’estetica crociana”2°. Bertoni 
rappresento a lungo, per Gramsci, il male peggiore della linguistica italiana del 


20 Gramsci, Lettere 142. 


353 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


primo Novecento. Lo si evince sin dalle prime note stese all’inizio della 
carcerazione. Con argomentazioni solide (i riferimenti sono agli “studi sulle 
velari ario europee’’) e dall’interno di una prospettiva d’indagine che prendera ben 
altra consistenza nel corso degli anni, Gramsci aveva gia discusso 1 contributi 
scientifici di Bertoni nel Q 3 (1930), senza peraltro tralasciare una dichiarazione 
di disprezzo morale per l’uomo oltre che per lo studioso che appare ingeneroso e 
talora anche immotivato: 


Bisognerebbe scrivere una stroncatura del Bertoni come linguista, per gli 
atteggiamenti assunti ultimamente col suo scritto nel Manualetto di linguistica. [...] 
Mi pare si possa dimostrare che il Bertoni né é riuscito a dare una teoria generale delle 
innovazioni portate dal Bartoli nella linguistica, né @ riuscito a capire in che 
consistano queste innovazioni e quale sia la loro importanza pratica e teorica. [...] 
Errore del Bartoli di aver collaborato col Bertoni nella compilazione del Manualetto, 
e dico errore e responsabilita scientifica. Il Bartoli @ apprezzato per i suoi lavori 
concreti: lasciando scrivere al Bertoni la parte teorica induce in errore gli studenti e li 
spinge su una falsa strada: in questo caso la modestia e il disinteresse diventano una 
colpa. D’altronde il Bertoni, se non ha capito il Bartoli, non ha nemmeno capito 
l’estetica del Croce, nel senso che dall’estetica crociana non ha saputo derivare dei 
canoni di ricerca e di costruzione della scienza del linguaggio, ma non ha fatto che 
parafrasare, esaltare, liricizzare delle impressioni: si tratta di un positivista 
sostanziale che si sdilinquisce di fronte all’idealismo perché questo é@ pit’ di moda e 
permette di fare della retorica. [...] Bisognerebbe stroncare il Bertoni non solo in 
questo campo: la sua figura di studioso mi é sempre stata ripugnante intellettualmente: 
c’é in essa qualcosa di falso, di non sincero nel senso letterale della parola; oltre alla 
prolissita e alla mancanza di “prospettiva” nei valori storici e letterari. 

(I 351-52) 


Anche in questo conflitto antagonistico di auctoritates, Gramsci intravede la 
condensazione di un codice entro il quale assommano le energie della tradizione 
linguistica d'Italia. Specchiata cosi sul piano della teoria come su quello della 
prassi comunicativa, l’opposizione Bertoni (Croce) vs Bartoli ha in sé il pieno 
senso della tensione “nazional-popolare” giacché esamina in dettaglio il processo 
materiale di aggregazione delle diversificate e divergenti unita linguistiche 
d'Italia. La ricerca di una grammatica che possa veramente dirsi “normativa” 
occupa il pensiero linguistico gramsciano dai primi anni ’30 fino all’ interruzione 
definitiva dei Quaderni, che coincide cronologicamente col ricovero ospedaliero 
presso la clinica Quisisana di Roma dell’agosto 1935. Un quinquennio intenso 
nel quale, tra dolori fisici e sofferenze psichiche (gia dal 7 dicembre 1933 
Gramsci era stato trasferito dal carcere di Turi, passando per quello di 
Civitavecchia, all’ospedale di Formia), matura quella che pud lecitamente 
considerarsi la sua filosofia linguistica. 

La condanna di Bertoni, e specialmente dell’idea di una societa 
grammaticalizzata che sta alla base di parecchie delle deduzioni esplicitate dal 
filologo modenese, consente a Gramsci di estrinsecare, in quegli stessi anni, un 
orizzonte referenziale sganciato dagli ambienti di questo accademismo 
schiettamente crociano. La lingua letteraria ribadita anche dai seguaci di Croce in 
termini etico-educativi (e, pertanto, “nazionale-popolari”), é vista da Gramsci 
come disseccata in canoni e modelli retorici senza nessuna relazione con la 


Francesco Sberlati 354 


effettiva vita sociale. Una lingua vincolante, passibile solo di essere imitata, ma 
incapace di fornire strumenti adeguati alle concrete esigenze di comunicazione e 
di espressione di una nazione il cui processo d’unificazione non si é ancora 
concluso, e nella quale ancora predomina |’ efficacia rappresentativa dei dialetti. I 
quali, nient’affatto circoscritti ai culti feticisti degli indagatori dei sostrati, sono 
sentiti dai parlanti come ausilii di impiego corrente, costantemente vivificati 
dagli apporti innovatori della neoformazione e del conio neologistico. Gramsci 
affonda pertanto |’idea del dialetto inteso come rilievo comico-grottesco, magari 
deformante e caricaturale, arretrato talvolta allo strato demotico pid infimo. 
Precisando le “interferenze” che vanno riconosciute “tra dialetto e lingua 
nazionale-letteraria”, annota sin dal Q 6 (1930-32): 


anche il dialetto é lingua-arte. Ma tra il dialetto e la lingua nazionale-letteraria 
qualcosa é mutato: precisamente l’ambiente culturale, politico-morale-sentimentale. 
La storia delle lingue é storia delle innovazioni linguistiche, ma queste innovazioni 
non sono individuali (come avviene nell’arte) ma sono di un’intera comunita sociale 
che ha innovato la sua cultura, che ha “progredito” storicamente: naturalmente 
anch’esse diventano individuali, ma non dell’individuo-artista, dell’ individuo- 
elemento storico-culturale, completo determinato. 

(II 738) 


L’attenzione rivolta ai dialetti sostituisce con |’ipotesi di un percorso 
alternativo quell’istanza di ambigua coerenza riconosciuta da Gramsci quale 
connettore ideologico della volonta di unificazione politica. E un percorso che 
tenta di ricollegare gli operosi contatti fra le diverse fisionomie delle lingue 
d’uso, poiché, scrive, “nella lingua non c’é partenogenesi, cioé lingua che 
produce altra lingua, ma c’é innovazione per interferenze di culture diverse”. Il 
che “avviene per intere masse di elementi linguistici, e avviene molecolarmente 
[...] nello stesso seno di una nazione, tra diversi strati” (II 739). Sono anzi gli 
“imprestiti” che i dialetti forniscono all’italiano comune a definire la peculiare 
fisionomia di esso: 


Il linguaggio “letterario” @ strettamente legato alla vita delle moltitudini nazionali e 
si sviluppa lentamente e solo molecolarmente; se si pud dire che ogni gruppo sociale 
ha una sua “lingua” tuttavia occorre notare (salvo rare eccezioni) che tra la lingua 
popolare e quella delle classi colte c’é una continua aderenza e un continuo scambio. 
(II 730) 


L’esito élitario, lo scarto aristocratico (e come tale “cortigiano”) della 
codificazione linguistica italiana, diviene inevitabile conseguenza della riforma 
strutturale e funzionale portata a piena maturazione da Bembo, e corroborata 
attraverso i molteplici sforzi compiuti dalle successive auctoritates. Non sara 
superfluo sottolineare che questo problema é presente nella riflessione di Gramsci 
sin dall’inizio della stesura dei Quaderni, poi ripreso ed ampliato nelle 
elaborazioni successive. Al Q /5, databile con relativa approssimazione al 1933, 
dunque alla fase centrale della produzione carceraria (che, ricordiamo, ha il suo 
avvio presumibilmente nell’estate del ’29), Gramsci affida il primo nucleo di una 
“nota” che delimita gia con sufficiente chiarezza le distinzioni tra Medioevo e 


355 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 
Rinascimento: 


mentre dal Trecento al Cinquecento la poesia popolare [...] ha una importanza 
notevole, perché é legata ancora a una certa vivacita di resistenza delle forze sociali 
sorte col movimento di ripresa verificatosi dopo il Mille e culminato nei Comuni, 
dopo il Cinquecento queste forze sono abbruttite completamente e la poesia popolare 
decade fino alle forme attuali [...]. Dopo il Cinquecento cioé si rende radicale quel 
distacco tra intellettuali e popolo che é alla base di queste note e che tanto significato 
ha avuto per la storia italiana moderna politica e culturale. 

(III 1802) 


Dal Cinquecento in poi, |’affinamento professionale dello scrittore si misura 
sulla base del rispetto all’integrita del canone e percid sull’intenzione esplicita di 
replicare la tipologia linguistico-testuale pit accreditata. E la riproposizione 
invariata e invariabile del repertorio, insomma, a coordinare |’ assestamento 
dell’ organismo linguistico e a garantirne la conservazione-trasmissione tramite 
un complesso sistema di spinte sincroniche orizzontali, inevitabilmente 
astoriche. Ed é in questa dimensione storicista, a ridosso del dibattito idealistico 
del primo Novecento, che si colloca la particolare filologia gramsciana. Di fatto, 
lo ha dimostrato Robert Dombroski nella sua ricostruzione delle componenti 
peculiari del pensiero gramsciano?!, é proprio la tensione di una concezione della 
filologia quale modalita interpretativa dei valori storicamente dati ad orientare 
Gramsci verso un preciso punto di confluenza tra idea nazionale e tradizione 
letteraria (e come tale linguistica). E sintomatico che, trovandosi a dover 
dichiarare la qualita e la consistenza della funzione svolta dagli intellettuali 
italiani nel corso dei secoli, egli punti a rompere il compromesso (0 a svelare 
l’inganno) delle istanze romantiche e poi ancora risorgimentali2. Cosi il Q 2/ 
(1934-35) insiste sulla distanza nel contempo estimativa e comunicativa tra ceto 
intellettuale e popolo lato sensu, iscrivendo nello scarto quel procedimento 
enucleato per via induttiva che gli consentira di confutare le pacifiche sintesi 
storiche offerte dall’idealismo: 


In Italia, il termine “nazionale” ha un significato molto ristretto 
ideologicamente e in ogni caso non coincide con “popolare”, perché in Italia gli 
intellettuali sono lontani dal popolo, cioé dalla “nazione” e sono invece legati a una 
tradizione di casta, che non é mai stata rotta da un forte movimento politico popolare 
oO nazionale dal basso: la tradizione é “libresca” e astratta [...]. Il termine corrente 
“nazionale” é in Italia legato a questa tradizione intellettuale e libresca, quindi la 
facilita sciocca e in fondo pericolosa di chiamare “antinazionale” chiunque non abbia 


21 Dombroski 1989: 74-99. 

22 Per il rapporto complesso e talora contraddittorio tra Gramsci e nazione-stato 
Italia, e in part. per il concetto di “popolare”, vedi Golding 1992; Schecter 1991; 
Kiros 1985; Gomez Hinojosa 1987; Femia 1981; Bellamy 1993; Germino 1990. 
Sono di grande interesse, soprattutto se confrontate con la visione tipicamente 
italiana del pensiero di Gramsci, le informazioni fornite da Buttigieg 1990 (con una 
bibliografia assai indicativa). Su questo argomento vedi anche Davidson 1990; e 
Garcia Barcelé 1990. 


Francesco Sberlati 356 


questa concezione archeologica e tarmata degli interessi del paese. 
(III 2116) 


Su questa acquisizione decisiva andava precisandosi un’idea di lingua comune 
(nazionale) radicalmente nuova, orientata da una percezione inedita del lungo 
cammino elaborativo verificatosi dal XVI secolo in poi. Sensibile specialmente 
alla densita sociologica di quell’ inesausta ricerca di equilibrio riconoscibile nelle 
sofisticate soluzioni proposte da Bembo in poi, Gramsci rende apprezzabile la 
stratificazione temporale degli interventi sul processo codificante, riflettendo non 
pit sull’icona testuale bensi sulla dinamizzazione dell’ intero spazio linguistico. 
Un vero e proprio drenaggio di elementi letterari, rimossi poiché ritenuti 
materiali non influenti sul quadro pragmatico volto a definire in misura 
diacronica le variazioni d’intensita sociologica dell’energia linguistica. Dagli 
appunti stesi nel Q 29 si evince in modo sufficientemente chiaro la posizione di 
Gramsci, nient’affatto omogenea all’ idea tradizionale che voleva la lingua statica 
ed immobile, invariabile e non passibile di evoluzioni: 


é evidente che uno scrittore di grammatica normativa non puo ignorare la storia della 
lingua di cui vuole proporre una “fase esemplare” come la “sola” degna di diventare 
“organicamente” e “totalitariamente” la lingua “comune” di una nazione, in lotta e 
concorrenza con altre “fasi” e tipi o schemi che esistono gia (collegati a sviluppi 
tradizionali 0 a tentativi inorganici e incoerenti delle forze che [...] operano 
continuamente sulle “grammatiche” spontanee e immanenti al linguaggio). La 
grammatica normativa ha altri fini, anche se non si pud immaginare la lingua 
nazionale fuori del quadro delle altre lingue, che influiscono per vie innumerevoli e 
spesso difficili da controllare su di essa. 

(III 2343-44) 


Specialmente sul piano della presa di coscienza dei presupposti ideologici 
d’estrazione risorgimentale, la riflessione gramsciana segna una svolta decisiva 
rispetto alle posizioni assunte da esponenti della classe intellettuale di 
formazione recente. Nondimeno egli si mostra nel contempo capace di un 
consapevole controllo delle proprie competenze tecniche nella valutazione dei dati 
desunti dalla nuova situazione territoriale e istituzionale. I] valore “politico” della 
lingua (e della sua codificazione grammaticale) é gia perfettamente stabilito 
dall’intelligente testimonianza, ancora una volta, del Q 29: 


La grammatica normativa scritta é quindi sempre una “scelta”, un indirizzo culturale, é 
cioé sempre un atto di politica culturale-nazionale. Potra discutersi sul modo migliore 
di presentare la “scelta” e 1’“indirizzo” per farli accettare volentieri, cioé potra 
discutersi dei mezzi pill opportuni per ottenere il fine; non pud esserci dubbio che ci 
sia un fine da raggiungere che ha bisogno di mezzi idonei e conformi, cioé che si tratti 
di un atto politico. 

(III 2344) 


Il processo di rinnovamento che Gramsci tentd di promuovere, avviatosi con 
una polemica sempre pili aspra col trascorrere degli anni contro |’estetismo di 
provenienza crociana, puntava a verificare l’applicabilita di un indirizzo quasi 
rivoluzionario nella cultura italiana degli anni Venti e Trenta, ispirato al canone 


357 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


della funzionalita piuttosto che a quello della retorica. E proprio la velleita 
stilistico-retorica gravd per secoli sulla lingua italiana, a suo giudizio 
impedendone (0 perlomeno ostacolandone) lo sviluppo in direzione socializzante. 

Perché siano riconosciute la conformita e la coerenza esemplare della fatica 
elaborativa esperita da Gramsci, occorre che si richiamino le molteplici 
testimonianze di verita affidate a quel magnifico esempio di epistolografia 
autobiografica che sono le Lettere dal carcere. Le lettere consentono di seguire le 
tappe di crescita del pensiero gramsciano, di precisarne le indecisioni e i tormenti 
culturali, di recuperarne le argomentazioni pill intime e assiduamente condotte. 
La documentazione epistolare é felicemente fruibile anche per quanto concerne 
tempi e fasi della riflessione linguistica e della sua legittimazione teorica. La 
corrispondenza con Tatiana é per Gramsci l’unico legame concessogli col mondo 
esterno23, Egli richiede costantemente informazioni circa le novita bibliografiche 
sugli argomenti che gli interessano, tra i quali spiccano per quantita e frequenza 
gli studi linguistici e filologici2*. Il che riprova, se la cosa fosse necessaria, 
quanto intensa era l’aspirazione di Gramsci a partecipare e intervenire al dibattito 
linguistico, che proprio in quei primi decenni del Novecento andava conquistando 
spessore scientifico e caratura culturale. La sua idea, mai realizzata, era quella di 
scrivere un saggio di linguistica teorica in cui esporre i principi della sua analisi, 
partendo dalle posizioni del maestro ma per approdare verso nuovi e pil 
persuasivi orizzonti. Nella lettera a Tatiana del 19 marzo 1927 (dal carcere di 
Milano), Gramsci riferisce di aver “pensato” a quattro soggetti a cui lavorare, tra 
i quali appunto il saggio linguistico prevale per complessita e impegno (gli altri 
tre sono una ricerca sugli intellettuali italiani, uno studio sul teatro di Pirandello 
€ un saggio sui romanzi d’appendice). All’origine dell’ interesse scientifico c’é il 
profondo senso di frustrazione che deriva dalla privazione della liberta: 


La mia vita trascorre sempre ugualmente monotona. Anche lo studio @ molto pit 
difficile di quanto non sembrerebbe. Ho ricevuto qualche libro e in verita leggo molto 
(pid di un volume al giorno, oltre i giornali). [...] Worrei, secondo un piano 
prestabilito, occuparmi intensamente e sistematicamente di qualche soggetto che mi 
assorbisse e centralizzasse la mia vita interiore. [...] 

Uno studio di linguistica comparata! Nientemeno. Ma che cosa potrebbe essere pil 
“disinteressato” e fiir ewig di cid? Si tratterebbe, naturalmente, di trattare solo la parte 
metodologica e puramente teorica dell’argomento, che non é@ mai stata trattata 
completamente e sistematicamente dal nuovo punto di vista dei neolinguistici contro 
i neogrammatici.25 


23 Vedi il bel saggio di Kebir 1990 (con una commovente testimonianza di Sandro 
Pertini: 120-25). 

24 Leggiamo ad esempio nella lettera indirizzata a Tatiana il 3 aprile 1933 (dalla Casa 
Penale di Turi): “Ti prego di scrivere alla Libreria perché mi spedisca il recente 
volumetto del prof. Michele Barbi: Dante - Vita, opere, fortuna, editore G. C. 
Sansoni, Firenze, 1933. Non so resistere alla tentazione di avere questo lavoro, anche 
se non saro in grado, ancora per qualche mese, di studiarlo” (Gramsci, Lettere 224). 

25 Gramsci, Lettere 27. Dopo aver elencato i quattro soggetti su cui intende lavorare, 
Gramsci aggiunge: “In fondo, a chi bene osservi, tra questi quattro argomenti esiste 
omogeneita: lo spirito popolare creativo, nelle sue diverse fasi e gradi di sviluppo, é 


Francesco Sberlati 358 


Di questo progetto restano parecchie tracce disseminate qua e 1a nei 
Quaderni. Gia nel 1931-32, in un’ ottica precorritrice rispetto agli esiti successivi 
della linguistica strutturalista, Gramsci riflettera sulle tensioni e sui conflitti di 
energie comunicative intrinseci all’equilibrio struttivo della lingua d’uso. Nel Q 
6 troviamo infatti alcune note di fondamentale rilevanza, in particolare 
relativamente alla definizione del “linguaggio inteso non solo come espressione 
puramente verbale, quale pud essere fotografato in un certo tempo e luogo dalla 
grammatica, ma come un insieme di immagini e modi di esprimersi che non 
rientrano nella grammatica” (II 730). Il guadagno esegetico di questa 
impostazione é perfettamente tangibile nella distinzione tra grammatica storica e 
grammatica normativa, affidata al Q 29, posteriore di circa tre anni. 
L’impressione che si trae dalla lettura di queste note € che Gramsci avesse 
presente alcune delle fondamentali tesi saussuriane, in particolare la distinzione 
tra langue e parole, la dove afferma che “teoricamente si puo dire che ognuno ha 
una sua grammatica”. Inoltre, un’affinita non ambigua con le posizioni del 
linguista ginevrino mostrano altre componenti di natura individuale e sociale. 
Converra richiamare il passo nella sua interezza ed esaminarlo piu da vicino: 


In realta oltre alla “grammatica immanente” in ogni linguaggio, esiste anche, di 
fatto, cioé anche se non scritta, una (o pil) grammatica “normativa”, ed é costituita 
dal controllo reciproco, dall’insegnamento reciproco, dalla “censura” reciproca [...]; 
tutto questo complesso di azioni e reazioni confluiscono a determinare un 
conformismo grammaticale, cioé a stabilire “norme” e giudizi di correttezza o di 
scorrettezza, ecc. Ma questo manifestarsi “spontaneo” di un conformismo 
grammaticale, é necessariamente sconnesso, discontinuo, limitato a strati sociali 0 a 
centri locali, ecc. (Un contadino che si inurba, per la pressione dell’ ambiente 
cittadino, finisce col conformarsi alla parlata della citta; nella campagna si cerca di 
imitare la parlata della citta; le classi subalterne cercano di parlare come le classi 
dominanti e gli intellettuali, ecc.). Si potrebbe schizzare un quadro della “grammatica 
normativa” che opera spontaneamente in ogni societa data, in quanto questa tende a 
unificarsi sia come territorio, sia come cultura, cio@ in quanto vi esiste un ceto 
dirigente la cui funzione sia riconosciuta e seguita. Il numero delle “grammatiche 
spontanee 0 immanenti” é incalcolabile, e teoricamente si pud dire che ognuno ha una 
sua grammatica. 

(III 2342-43) 


Difficile, pur se non illegittimo, concludere che Gramsci conoscesse le tesi 
di Saussure. II passo offre solo un segnale indicativo di affinita assai precise. Ad 
ogni modo, la riflessione del maestro ginevrino lascera tracce cospicue anche 
negli orientamenti della linguistica storica: basti rammentare Das Inandergreifen 
von deskriptiver und historischer Sprachwissenschaft di Walther von Wartburg 
(Leipzig 1931), in cui la perfetta compatibilita dei due metodi viene 
adeguatamente dimostrata, auspicando anzi future applicazioni reciprocamente 
integrative”®. Eppure proprio il Cours de linguistique générale, uscito com’é 


alla base di essi in misura uguale” (ivi 28). 
26 Sulla questione vedi Rosiello 1992. 


359 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


noto a Losanna e a Parigi nel 1916 sulla base degli appunti di Charles Bally e 
Albert Sechehaye, contribuisce all’esplicitazione di un orizzonte referenziale in 
cui l’efficacia rappresentativa della parola si misura rispetto al reale, vale a dire 
alla cosa (di qui le connessioni con Woérter und Sachen). E proprio nel dialetto, e 
nella sua innata vocazione all’arbitraire semantico e idiolettico, va forse 
individuata la concezione gramsciana di una grammatica individuale e spontanea, 
espressione intima e autentica della facolta comunicativa, e per contro 
lontanissima da quella lingua letteraria presunta comune, ma isolata dalle 
funzioni espressive della quotidianita. 

Agiscono in queste suggestioni gramsciane correnti eterogenee per 
provenienza e destinazione d’uso, e tuttavia complementari. Una lettura critica 
molto severa della linea neogrammatica era gia stata fornita da un filologo 
romanzo del livello di Hugo Schuchardt, autore di un’opera a tutt’oggi 
irrinunciabile per lo studio del latino volgare, cioé Der Vokalismus des 
Vulgdrlateins (Leipzig 1866-1868), il quale nel 1881 aveva pubblicato a Berlino 
l’opuscolo Uber die Lautgesetze. Gegen die Junggrammatiker, messo a frutto 
anche dall’ Ascoli per le due lettere glottologiche anti-neogrammatiche del 1882 e 
1886. Tuttavia, accanto alla concezione puramente fisiologica che collocava la 
linguistica fra le scienze naturali, rmaneva anche e soprattutto la concezione del 
linguaggio come fenomeno psichico. E certamente Gramsci, in queste precise 
distinzioni, avra avuto ben presente il programma della scuola neogrammatica 
dettato da Karl Brugmann e Hermann Osthoff, in cui si insisteva appunto sul 
fattore psichico individuale (1’analogia) e sulle forze che agiscono al di fuori della 
coscienza del parlante. Cosi nel Q 29, come si é detto uno dei pit tardi e maturi, 
la questione é affrontata ancora sulla scorta di dati naturalistici (“linguaggio 
vivente”), ma sostenuti e corroborati tramite il ricorso al fattore psicologico 
(“atteggiamento spirituale”): “La grammatica normativa, che solo per astrazione 
puo essere ritenuta scissa dal linguaggio vivente, tende a fare apprendere tutto 
l’organismo della lingua determinata, e a creare un atteggiamento spirituale che 
renda capaci di orientarsi sempre nell’ ambiente linguistico” (III 2349). 

Le aspre critiche alla concezione delle lingue come organismi naturali, gia 
avviate da Gaston Paris nella Revue critique del 1868 e poi ribadite ulteriormente 
nel Journal des savants del 1887, fruttificarono rapidamente ed orientarono le 
indagini in una direzione favorevole al programma proposto da Worter und 
Sachen, con un occhio particolare rivolto alla Volkskunde. Non sara improprio, 
quindi, pensare che le riflessioni gramsciane dedicate al folclore corrispondano 
agli spazi interdisciplinari organizzati dalla rivista di Meyer-Libke e alla 
Gegenstandskultur sviluppata presso il “Seminar fiir romanische Sprache und 
Kultur” dell’ Universita di Amburgo, soprattutto per opera della scuola di Fritz 
Kriiger. Nelle Osservazioni sul folclore (Quaderni 5, 9 e 27), Gramsci recupera ed 
elabora con originale innovazione una procedura peculiare della linguistica 
neogrammatica, in qualche misura parallela a quella di tipo linguistico- 
etnografico applicata da Max Leopold Wagner nella splendida monografia su Das 
Idndische Leben Sardiniens im Spiegel der Sprache (Heidelberg 1921), forse non 
ignota allo studioso sardo. Ma in pit egli garantisce un supporto ideologico alla 
discussione dei luoghi storico-geografici, connotando le singole sezioni di studio 
con la sua tipica idea di mediazione tra valenza linguistica e sistema sociale. 


Francesco Sberlati 360 


i 


L’adesione a questi moduli é mostrata con certezza nelle succinte ma 
discriminanti note stese nel Q 9 (1932), forse uno dei pit. complessi e intricati 
per tempi e fasi di elaborazione, ove il confronto lingua-dialetto-folclore, pur 
ribadendo la separazione categoriale delle discipline, si sforza di riconoscere le 
specifiche informazioni culturali accogliendone la peculiarita e conservandone 
tutte le arcaiche differenze: 


il folclore & sempre stato legato alla cultura della classe dominante, e, a suo modo, ne 
ha tratto dei motivi che sono andati a inserirsi in combinazione con le precedenti 
tradizioni. Del resto niente di pit contraddittorio e frammentario del folclore [...], e 
niente sarebbe pil’ disparato che voler trovare in una stessa area folcloristica le 
diverse stratificazioni. Ma anche il confronto tra aree diverse, sebbene sia il solo 
indirizzo metodico razionale, non puOd permettere conclusioni tassative, ma solo 
congetture probabili, poiché é difficile fare la storia delle influenze che ogni area ha 
accolto e spesso si paragonano entita eterogenee. Il folclore, almeno in parte, é 
molto pit’ mobile e fluttuante della lingua e dei dialetti, cid che del resto si pud dire 
per il rapporto tra cultura della classe colta e lingua letteraria: la lingua si modifica, 
nella sua parte sensibile, molto meno del contenuto culturale; e solo nella semantica 
si pud, naturalmente, registrare una adesione tra forma sensibile e contenuto 
intellettuale. 

(II 1105) 


La linea di ricerca fondata sulla tradizionale strumentazione linguistica ha 
mostrato i suoi limiti con Bertoni e Croce. Adeguando le ragioni ed i criteri gia 
esposti nel 1931, Gramsci attribuisce alla storia linguistica una energia evolutiva 
che ben poco ha che fare coll’ irrigidimento forzoso fissato dai crociani sul livello 
di coerenza stilistica. Basata su diversi presupposti metodologici (la geografia 
linguistica piuttosto che le tesi neogrammatiche) oltre che storico-politici, la 
nuova impostazione gramsciana consente di eliminare ogni residuo elemento 
impiantato sul mobile e infido terreno dello stile. Tuttavia, poiché la sua idea di 
progresso ammette unicamente modalita di sviluppo valutate nella loro estesa 
diacronia cronologica, quella impostazione conduce inevitabilmente ad una 
deformazione ottica del processo evolutivo dell’italiano comune, talora illusoria e 
per molti versi inaccettabile. 

Ma sfugge a Gramsci che gli apparenti anacronismi della lingua nazionale, 
ingenerati dalle sovrapposizioni di strati conservativi e dai ritorni regressivi su 
posizioni arcaiche, derivano dal processo selettivo applicato soprattutto al lessico 
e all’asse sintagmatico. Eppure, proprio il movimento coercitivo che coordina 
questo sistema della ripetizione, ribadisce nel permanere di un catalogo limitato 
di opzioni espressive (quasi un repertorio di stilemi inventariato a scopo 
imitativo), l’articolazione intrinseca al codice linguistico e al suo archivio 
memoriale. Si tratta di espedienti di coesione le cui implicazioni strutturali e 
funzionali sono estranee al pensiero di Gramsci, o meglio esorbitano dalle sue 
abitudini cognitive. In stretto rapporto genetico con la contestualizzazione della 
grammatica nella storia, la concatenazione degli elementi struttivi del linguaggio 
é per Gramsci interna (e immanente) all’istituto tradizionale della lingua come 
processo espressivo che si salda alla volonta comunicativa dell’individuo 
integrato in una societa. In realta, dalla filologia cinquecentesca in poi, la 


361 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


codificazione della lingua italiana avviene e si compie sulla base di un registro 
assai differente. Non gia col De vulgari eloquentia, ma da Bembo in poi opera un 
predominio della funzione selettiva che é in misura determinante caratterizzata 
dall’ossessiva insistenza sulla direttrice della similarita combinatoria. La 
produttivita semantica e il diasistema linguistico che ne é alla base sono 
fortemente condizionati dal testo (littera e, pertanto, letteratura): 1’azzeramento di 
elementi innovativi conferisce al repertorio tradito e al suo peso inerziale il 
primato della staticita, ponendolo al riparo delle oscillazioni idiolettiche proprie 
di ogni linea evolutiva. 


Universita degli Studi di Bologna 


Opere citate 


Adamson, Walter L. Hegemony and Revolution: A Study of Antonio Gramsci’s 
Political and Cultural Theory. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1980. 

Antonio Gramsci. Le sue idee nel nostro tempo. Roma: Editrice |’ Unita, 1987. 

Asor Rosa, Alberto, ed. Letteratura italiana. Le Opere, 1V/2. Il Novecento. La ricerca 
letteraria. Torino: Einaudi, 1996. 

Bellamy, Richard P. Gramsci and the Italian State. Manchester, UK: Manchester 
University Press; New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1993. 

Bobbio, Norberto. “Nota sulla dialettica in Gramsci”, Studi gramsciani 73-86. 

Biihl, Achim. “Die roten Jahre. Die Turiner Ratebewegung”, Hirschfeld-Riigemer 31- 
49, 

Buttigieg, Joseph A. Antonio Gramsci’s Triad: Culture, Politics, Intellectuals. 
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota, Center for Humanistic Studies, 1987. 

. “Niedergang der Linken, Aufstieg Gramscis. Gramsci-Rezeption in den 

USA”, Hirschfeld-Riigemer 189-99. 

Calzolaio, Valerio, ed. Gramsci e la modernita. Letteratura e politica tra Ottocento e 
Novecento. Napoli: CUEN, 1991. 

Caracciolo, Alberto-Scalia, Gianni, ed. La citta futura. Saggi sulla figura e il pensiero 
di Antonio Gramsci. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1959. 

Cherchi, Paolo. “A. Gramsci interprete di Pirandello”, Italica 45.2 (1968), 201-15. 

Croce, Benedetto. “Definizione della Linguistica”, in La letteratura italiana. Ed. 
Mario Sansone. Bari: Laterza, 1960. 

Davidson, Alaistair. “Gramsci nel mondo anglosassone”, Muscatello 205-12. 

De Castris, Arcangelo L. Estetica e politica: Croce e Gramsci. Milano: F. Angeli, 
1989. 

De Mauro, Tullio. “Questione della lingua”, Antonio Gramsci 118-19. 

. “Alcuni appunti su Gramsci linguista”, Calzolaio 135-44. 

Dionisotti, Carlo. “Appunti su Ascoli”, Gavazzeni-Gorni 419-32. 

Dombroski, Robert S. Antonio Gramsci. Boston: Twayne Publishers, 1989. 

Femia, Joseph V. Gramsci’s Political Thought: Hegemony, Consciousness, and the 
Revolutionary Process. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1981. 

Finocchiaro, Maurice A. Gramsci and the History of Dialectical Thought. Cambridge; 
New York: Cambridge University Press, 1988. 

Fiori, Giuseppe. Vita di Antonio Gramsci. Bari: Laterza, 1966. 

Garcia Barcelé, Abel. “La praxis dialettica. Temi e ‘usi’ di Gramsci in America 


Francesco Sberlati 362 


Latina”, Muscatello 233-66. 

Garin, Eugenio. “Antonio Gramsci nella cultura italiana”, Studi gramsciani 3-14. 

Gavazzeni, Franco-Gorni, Gugliemo, ed. Le tradizioni del testo. Studi di letteratura 
italiana offerti a Domenico De Robertis. Milano-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1993. 

Germino, Dante L. Antonio Gramsci: Architect of a New Politics. Baton Rouge: 
Louisiana State University Press, 1990. 

Golding, Susan R. Gramsci’s Democratic Theory: Contribution to a Post-liberal 
Democracy. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1992. 

Gomez Hinojosa, José F. Intelectuales y pueblo. Un acercamiento a la luz de Antonio 
Gramsci. San José: DEI, 1987. 

Gramsci, Antonio. Quaderni del carcere, 4 voll. Ed. Valentino Gerratana. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1977. 

. Lettere dal carcere. Torino: Einaudi, 1955. 

Gramsci en América Latina. Del silencio al olvido. Caracas: Fondo Editorial 
Tropykos. Instituto de Filosofia. UCV, 1991. 

Heeger, Robert. Ideologie und Macht. Eine Analyse von Antonio Gramscis Quaderni. 
Uppsala; Stockholm: Almqvist & Wiksell, 1975. 

Herrera, José. “Dialéctica e Historicismo en Gramsci”, Gramsci en América Latina 71- 
82. 

Hirschfeld, Uve. “*Eine Art und Weise des Ausbrechens aus der Erdernwelt’. Enige 
Aspekte der politischen Kulturtheorie”, Hirschfeld-Riigemer 11-22. 

Hirschfeld, Uwe-Riigemer, Werner, ed. Utopie und Zivilgesellschaft. 
Rekonstruktionen, Thesen und Informationen zu Antonio Gramsci. Berlin: 
Elefanten Press; Edition Sonntag, 1990. 

Hirshbein, Cesia Ziona. “La necesidad del arte en Gramsci (Sociologia de la 
Literatura)”, Gramsci en América Latina 83-90. 

Hogemann, Elvira. “Das Paradigma des Intellektuellen. Luigi Pirandello in Gramscis 
Theaterkritik und den Gefangnisplanen”, Hirschfeld-Riigemer 127-36. 

Joll, James. Antonio Gramsci. New York: Penguin Books, 1978. 

Kebir, Sabine. Antonio Gramscis Zivilgesellschaft. Alltag, Okonomie, Kultur, 
Politik. Hamburg: VSA-Verlag, 1991. 

. “Liebste Julia! Liebste Tania! Antonios Briefe aus dem Gefangnis an Frau 
und Schwagerin”, Hirschfeld-Riigemer 113-25. 

Kiros, Teodros. Toward the Construction of a Theory of Political Action: Antonio 
Gramsci, Consciousness, Participation, and Hegemony. Lanham: University 
Press of America, 1985. 

Lo Piparo, Franco. Lingua intellettuali e egemonia in Gramsci. Roma-Bari: Laterza, 
1970. 

Maggi, Michele. La logica di Croce e altri scritti. Napoli: Bibliopolis, 1994. 

Mordenti, Raoul. “Quaderni del carcere di Antonio Gramsci”, Asor Rosa 553-629. 

Morera, Esteve. Gramsci’s Historicism: A Realist Interpretation. London; New York: 
Routledge, 1990. 

Muscatello, Biagio, ed. Gramsci e il marxismo contemporaneo. Relazioni al 
convegno organizzato dal Centro Mario Rossi, Siena, 27-30 aprile 1987. Roma: 
Editori Riuniti, 1990. 

Nemeth, Thomas. Gramsci’s Philosophy: A Critical Study. Brighton, Sussex: 
Harvester Press; Atlantic Highlands, N.J: Humanities Press, 1980. 

Petronio, Giuseppe. “Gramsci e la critica letteraria”, Studi gramsciani 223-41. 

Ramat, Paolo et alii, ed. The History of Linguistics in Italy. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 
1986. 

Ranke, Joachim. Marxismus und Historismus bei Antonio Gramsci: Philosophisce 


363 L’arcangelo e i grammatici. Gramsci storico della lingua. 


und sozialwissenschaftliche Untersuchungen. Frankfurt am Main; New York: P. 
Lang, 1989. 

Romano, Salvatore F. Antonio Gramsci. Torino: UTET, 1965. 

Rosiello, Luigi. “Problemi e orientamenti linguistici negli scritti di Antonio 
Gramsci”, Quaderni dell’Istituto di Glottologia (Universita di Bologna), 2 
(1957), 39-57. 

. “La componente linguistica dello storicismo gramsciano”, Caracciolo- 
Scalia 299-327. 
. “Problemi linguistici negli scritti di Gramsci”, Rossi II 347-67. 

Bin Bost “Linguistica e marxismo nel pensiero di Antonio Gramsci”, 
Historiographia Linguistica 9 (1982), 431-52, poi in Ramat 237-58. 

. “Saussure e lo storicismo: la linguistica tra comprensione e spiegazione”, 
Lingua e stile 27 (1992), 3-23. 

Rossi, Paolo, ed. Gramsci e la cultura contemporanea. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1970. 

Schecter, Darrow. Gramsci and the Theory of Industrial Democracy. Aldershot, UK: 
Avebury; Brookfield, VT: Gower, 1991. 

Segre, Cesare. “Critica stilistica e storia del linguaggio nel carteggio Spitzer- 
Schiaffini” . Essays in Honor of Dante Della Terza. A c. di Franco Fido, Rena E. 
Syska-Lampraska e Pamela D. Stewart. Fiesole: Cadmo, 1998. Pp. 501-10. 

Showstack Sasson, Anne. Gramsci’s Politics. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota 


Press, 1987" 
Studi gramsciani. Atti del Convegno tenuto a Roma nei giorni 11-13 gennaio 1958. 


Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1958. 

Tertullian, Nicolas. “Gramsci, |’‘Anti-Croce’ e la filosofia di Luk4cs”, Muscatello 
313-26. 

Vallone, Giancarlo. Croce, Gramsci e la provincia pensante. Lecce: Milella, 1985. 


of 





Ye. a a 
re O an 
i he 
ee i 
_ a ee 
i ee 
+ + ¢ 7 ‘6 ap-4y wrk 


== 


+9, 7 oD re: 


lt inst een 


_ soe —) -ath-cipiiemn? cdipit 
; id = 





ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 


Edited by Dino S. Cervigni with the Collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, 
Valeria Finucci, Albert N. Mancini, Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 


The Feminist Encyclopedia of Italian Literature. Ed. Rinaldina Russell. Westport, 
Connecticut: Greenwood, 1997. Pp. 402. 


This volume is the first feminist encyclopedia of Italian literature. As the editor points out 
in the introductory essay, “it is not an encyclopedia of Italian women writers, although, of 
course many writers considered here are women; it is rather a companion volume for 
those who wish to investigate Italian literary culture and writings, penned by women and 
men, in a feminist perspective” (vii). In presenting a broad panorama of Italian literary 
and cultural scene throughout the ages, it is useful as a complement to another recent 
Greenwood publication, /talian Women Writers, a collection of fifty-one monographic 
chapters on the most important women writers from the fourteenth century to the present. 

The aim of the present volume is to provide a general audience in the United States 
with access to a feminist perspective of Italian literature, so far limited to a group of 
specialists, for the most part within the academic circles of Italian studies, history, and 
comparative literature. “Among the general college-educated readers, knowledge about 
feminist approaches to Italian writing, and even about the existence of Italian women 
writers, remains scanty,” observes Russell (vii). Tracing the presence of women in Italian 
literature and culture poses a particularly difficult task since “with the exception of 
writing by religious women, few literary forms and examples of female expression 
remain other than those provided by canonical genres. No corpus of letters, diaries, or 
other types of literary outlet has been found and collected in Italy, besides those already 
known in literary circles” (viii). 

Russell believes that the reasons for that peculiar situation are to be found in Italian 
history. She draws a brief overview of Italian society with its rigid division due to 
widespread illiteracy into low and high (institutionalized) culture components. Women, 
she claims, “while not totally excluded from it, have been cramped by the very 
sponsorship they received” (viii). As an example, she discusses the sudden resurgence of 
literary women in sixteenth-century Italy and “the absorption of their literary talents to 
the demands of patriarchal middle-class society in the ages that followed” (ix). The 
relationship between women and writing is crucial to the understanding of the overall 
picture of the western cultural tradition, claims Russell, and the present volume hopes to 
illuminate that relationship. 

The alphabetically arranged entries encompass eight centuries of Italian literature. 
They cover a number of different categories selected according to the relevance of each 
category to Italian culture and feminist thought. The broadest category is devoted to 
writers and contains entries on authors, both male and female, canonical and marginal. In 
each case the focus falls on the ways in which their writing explores gender relations and 
constructs images of women. Each entry contains a brief biographical note, followed by a 


Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998). Edited by Robert Dombroski & Dino S. Cervigni. 


366 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


discussion of the writer’s works from a feminist perspective, and a short bibliography. In 
some entries the contributors map possible new approaches to a number of subjects as 
well as offer valuable suggestions for their future exploration. This is particularly 
interesting in the case of canonical authors or texts, because until recently they have 
rarely been considered from a feminist viewpoint. For example, in her entry on Dante, 
Regina F. Psaki points to recently opened venues in Dante’s criticism hoping that they 
will “yield up new perspectives on women as bearers and makers of meaning” (62). 

Other categories include historical periods and literary-cultural movements, both 
international, (for example, modernism/postmodernism), and specifically Italian, such as 
scapigliatura or verismo. These entries present the period’s or movement’s main 
characteristics and offer a brief discussion of the relationship between them and women’s 
writing. For instance, the entry on Fascism highlights the role of women during the 
Fascist period and the Resistance, and contrasts the importance of their contribution with 
the scarcity of scholarly work on women’s participation in both movements. Cross- 
references help the reader establish the link between Fascism and such related topics as 
futurism, motherhood, novel, romance, etc. Disciplines, schools of thought, and trends in 
criticism that influenced the feminist perspective are also given substantial attention. As 
the editor points out, some subjects “such as cicisbeismo, questione della lingua, and 
weak thought are considered here for the first time in relation to feminist positions” (ix). 
Literary and theatrical genres are analyzed from the viewpoint of women’s participation 
or exclusion. 

Some entries explore themes, ideas, social issues, and stereotypes which have 
shaped women’s lives, e.g. abortion, disease, female bonding, prostitution, hagiography, 
courtesan, nun, etc. These entries present the reader with an historical perspective, 
emphasizing the interplay of social and literary influences responsible for creating 
stereotypical images of women, as well as resistance to these images. In view of the 
particular impact of women’s publishing houses and cinema on the general public, the 
editor decided to include these categories as well. 

The volume is very well organized and allows an easy access to the needed 
information. All the entries are arranged alphabetically and follow an internal pattern: a 
general presentation of the subject, a critical discussion, and a selected bibliography set 
chronologically. Asterisks guide the readers to other related topics. The volume also 
contains an appendix where entries are listed by period and subject, a brief selected 
bibliography on women writers, an index, and a list of contributors. 

The Feminist Encyclopedia is an invaluable help for readers interested in exploring 
less-traveled roads of Italian literature. They will appreciate the wealth of information 
provided by each entry as well as possible suggestions for further research. The present 
volume is a very useful reference tool and a necessary acquisition by any library. 

Barbara Zaczek, Clemson University 


Italian Cultural Studies: An Introduction. Ed. David Forgacs and Robert Lumley. 
Oxford: UP, 1996. Pp. Xv + 368. 


Given the wide range of interests and theoretical approaches that Cultural Studies 
embraces, and the relatively short time it has been on the academic and scholarly scene, it 


Italian Bookshelf 367 


is probably too early to offer a definition of this fast growing field which would be 
accurate enough to satisfy its practitioners on both sides of the Atlantic. Indeed, a great 
deal of space in the debate on Cultural Studies which has taken place over the last few 
years has been given over to the vexed question of what exactly this new field is. Still, 
despite the uncertainties which both surround and characterize Cultural Studies (to the 
delight of some of its practitioners), a few points at least seem fixed enough to warrant 
the status of founding principles: namely, a concern for and interest in a plurality of 
cultural practices and discourses; a concern for and interest in those subaltern discourses, 
practices and subjects which have been dispatched to the margins of the master 
narrative(s) of history; and a decidedly oppositional stance vis-a-vis established cultural 
practices and discourses and the modes of studying them. From this two further points 
can be noted: first, that Cultural Studies is thus far probably the academic world’s best 
and most concrete response to the crisis in values which has been the characteristic mark 
of the post-modern epoch; and second, that the implications which Cultural Studies has 
on the construction of curricula and canons, on the who, what and how of study, are 
enormous. 

Herein lies the importance of /talian Cultural Studies: An Introduction, a collection 
of eighteen essays edited by David Forgacs and Robert Lumley. Thus far Italian Cultural 
Studies has already produced a consistent and high-level body of research work, 
particularly studies published in Great Britain by the likes of Zygmunt Baranski and 
Stephen Gundle, among others. Yet, material for teaching undergraduate-level courses on 
Italian Cultural Studies has been almost non-existent. The greatest merit of Forgacs’s and 
Lumley’s book — the work of scholars who, along with Baranski and Gundle, have been 
at the forefront of British Italian Cultural Studies ( Forgacs, with his study of /talian 
Culture in the Industrial Era, and Lumley, with his recent anthology /talian Journalism) 
— is that it supplies for the first time a text with which to teach such courses. 

Aiming to “stimulate a critical reassessment of what ‘culture’ means in the Italian 
case and indicate new ways into the study of Italian culture and society” (1), the two 
editors present their readers with a good picture of what a course on twentieth-century 
Italy inspired by the principles of Cultural Studies might look like. Accordingly, attention 
is given not so much to manifestations of high culture as to popular culture (and here the 
chapter on football/soccer that the editors mysteriously were not able to include is sorely 
missed) and the post-war Americanization of Italian patterns of cultural consumption; not 
so much to culture conceived of as elite aesthetic experience as to culture as lived 
experience, understood anthropologically as a manifestation of “symbolic social forms” 
(1); not so much to conventional centers of power as to the South and to subordinated 
groups like women and immigrants; not so much to literature as a channel of 
communication as to the press and the mass-media industry. 

The text is divided into four parts: “Geographies,” with essays by John Dickie, 
Michael Eve, Paola Filipucci, Gabriella Gribaudi, and Tullio De Mauro; “Identities,” 
with essays by Simon Parker, Jeff Pratt, Luisa Passerini, and Vanessa Maher; “Media,” 
with essays by Peppino Ortoleva, Lumley, Christopher Wagstaff, Elena Dagrada and Ann 
Hallmore Caesar; and “Culture and Society,” with essays by Forgacs, Franco Bianchini, 
Massimo Torrigiani and Rinella Cere, Gundle and Marcella Filippa. Each section is 
accompanied by some very useful instances of Cultural Studies in action, the kind of 
work students approaching the field might themselves do: for example, brief analyses of 


368 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


the paninari, a scene or two from Ladri di biciclette, or the Lega Nord’s fantasy map of 
what a newly divided Italy might look like. 

Although the standard of these contributions is uniformly high, some, however, are 
more useful than others. The main limit to Passerini’s essay on “Gender Relations,” 
Ortoleva’s on “A Geography of the Media since 1945,” Dagrada’s on “Television and its 
Critics: A Parallel History,” and Bianchini, Torrigiani and Cere’s rather drab essay on 
“Cultural Policy” is that they do little more than pass on fairly well-established facts 
about their respective areas. The text as a whole, of course, has the primary function of 
introducing the field, but the main drawback of the essays above is that, interesting and 
important as they are, they leave very little space for discussion. Perhaps such matters 
could have been dealt with in a more perfunctory manner in an enlarged introduction to 
the volume. As it is, these are essays from which largely one is invited to take notes. 
Most of the other essays fare better, the highlights of which are Dickie’s essay on identity 
formation, “Imagined Italies,” which builds on the work of Benedict Anderson; the two 
essays on the South by Filipucci and Gribaudi; the essays on “Political Identities” by 
Parker, “Catholic Culture” by Pratt, and “Immigration and Social Identities” by Maher, 
all of which are extremely illuminating; and Forgacs’s excellent essay on “Cultural 
Consumption." 

Although the choice of what to include in such a collection was probably the editors’ 
most difficult decision, nevertheless the virtual absence from the collection of Antonio 
Gramsci, a seminal figure for Cultural Studies, whose theory of hegemony has been of 
great critical gain for the field, is surprising. Gramsci’s almost total absence, except for 
fleeting references in Filipucci’s essay in connection with folklore and Gribaudi’s on the 
Southern question, is a sign, however, of two further limits to the book: namely, a certain 
reluctance to address some of the theoretical questions that underpin Cultural Studies, 
and what seems to me its overly narrow concentration on post-war Italy. Even though it 
has been done before, it would have been a service to students and teachers alike to have 
a handy, concise account of Gramsci’s theory of hegemony, illustrated with his analysis 
of why the Risorgimento failed to be the revolution he believed, rightly or wrongly, it 
could have been. This could have been tied in with many of the themes the book 
addresses so effectively like the Southern question and the issue of national identity. 
Furthermore, students would also be exposed both to the founding narrative of post- 
Risorgimento Italian national identity and to the subaltern narratives which have sought 
to challenge it. On this point, Dickie’s otherwise marvelous piece on national identity, 
which limits itself to post-war Italy, is lacking. 

The decision to concentrate on the post-war period was probably dictated by reasons 
of space. This is, of course, understandable. It does mean, however, that the text is less 
useful in US-Italian curricula than it otherwise could have been. Given the differences in 
organization of undergraduate majors between Great Britain and the US, there are 
relatively few departments of Italian in the US which can allow themselves the luxury of 
offering a course limited to post-war Italy. For this reason, although it is undoubtedly a 
major asset in the promotion of Cultural Studies within the world of US-Italian Studies, 
and can be adopted as a course text book (as I have done), it does need to be 
supplemented with material from the pre 1945 period. 

My suspicion, however, is that this is a text which was not really intended to cater to 
the needs of US curricula. Reading Forgacs’s and Lumley’s introduction, one notices a 
polemic with the reluctance of Italian academic institutions to embrace Italian Cultural 


Italian Bookshelf 369 


Studies. The reasons for this reluctance are many, go to the roots of Italian history and 
culture, and are examined in the introduction, albeit briefly. The impression one receives 
from the introduction is that the major function of this collection is to present a 
recalcitrant Italian academic world with examples of the best that the British and Italian 
practitioners of Cultural Studies can produce. Indeed, none of the contributors is either a 
US or US-based scholar. Nevertheless, Forgacs’s and Lumley’s book is a welcome first 
and we must hope that its arrival will give other publishing companies the courage to 
furnish Italian Cultural Studies with the kind of teaching materials it needs if the field is 
to progress beyond the sphere of research. 


David Ward, Wellesley College 


Paul Colilli. The Idea of a Living Spirit: Poetic Logic As a Contemporary Theory. 
Toronto Studies In Semiotics. Toronto: Toronto UP, 1997. Pp. 290. 


The Idea of a Living Spirit & un testo lucido e necessario, soprattutto per la chiarezza con 
cui discute alcune delle tematiche piu presenti nella cultura filosofica e letteraria italiana. 
L’opera di Colilli ¢ ancor pit meritoria se si considera |’imbarazzante disinteresse di 
troppi italianisti al riguardo di cid che viene genericamente definito come “teoria.” Ci si 
puu solo augurare che il libro di Colilli, non scevro di una qualche incertezza strutturale e 
tematica, divenga un punto di riferimento per lo studio e |’insegnamento del rapporto tra 
filosofia e teoria letteraria nella cultura italiana. 

Nella prefazione Colilli si cura di spiegare come con “logica poetica”, il vichiano 
convincimento dell’esistenza di un originario e mitico dire il reale attraverso la retorica 
poetica, egli intenda significare ed investigare quel “"linguaggio di mezzo” (middle 
speech), posizionato tra prosa e poesia, tra comprensione razionale ed intuizione 
spirituale (viii-xi). L’“idea” di uno “spirito vivente” si identifica quindi con |’ipotesi di un 
possibile darsi della “concretezza” di un’entita esistente, di cid che Colilli anche chiama 
“Ja concreta spiritualita” dell’ oggetto (xi). Colilli giustamente considera il Neoplatonismo 
ficiniano come il punto di origine di un tale discorso teorico. E appunto nel Rinascimento 
italiano che si ipotizza un’essenziale unione del tutto, di una “armonia” del mondo, nella 
quale percezione, ragione, e poetico dire si fondono come aspetti o passaggi di un unico 
sistema conoscitivo. Per sostenere il suo discorso Colilli si rifa a testi di Giorgio 
Agamben, Giordano Bruno, Vico, Paolo Valesio e Franco Rella, al cui pensiero, insieme 
a quello fondamentale di Pier Aldo Rovatti e Massimo Cacciari, avrebbero potuto essere 
dedicato un ben pil! ampio spazio. 

Il libro si apre e si conclude con un breve “Threshold” ed é ripartito in tre sezioni. 
Nella prima (“The Invention of Poetic Logic”), divisa in tre capitoli, Colilli pone in 
risalto la necessita di “ripensare la relazione tra ragione, espressione umana ed ecologie 
culturali” (29). L’atto di conoscenza, sottolinea Colilli, ¢ essenzialmente un atto retorico, 
un processo tropologico che procede verso la fusione del dire mitico e di quello tecnico. 
E appunto questa rottura che, secondo Colilli, deve essere “riparata” attraverso un 
recupero del linguaggio tropologico. Nel primo capitolo (“New Life of the Poetological”) 
Colilli menziona il suggestivo passo dallo Zibaldone in cui Leopardi parla di una 
“ultrafilosofia”, che esamini ed esprima la complessita dell’ esistere senza ricorrere né alla 


370 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


disperazione né ad un’ irrazionale speranza (17). Nella ricerca di un dire “poetologico” 
Colilli offre un affascinante esame del pensiero di Giorgio Agamben e del volume di 
Paolo Valesio Ascoltare il silenzio (48-72). Sia Agamben che Valesio pongono |’accento 
sul centrale ruolo della “Voce” e del silenzio all’interno di ogni forma retorica. Con 
“Voce” Agamben significa “una dimensione del negativo . . . poiché [Voce] non é piu 
voce ma non é ancora significato.” “Voce”, spiega Colilli, non é ancora significato perché 
“non ha ancora verificato la sua ipotesi” (58). 

Nella seconda sezione (“Quotidie: The Signs of Lived Experience’) il testo esamina 
come il concetto di “spirito vivente” risieda nella quotidianita dell’esistenza, cid che 
l’autore, riferendosi alla poesia di Valesio, chiama “le memoria culturale del quotidiano” 
(91). La terza, e conclusiva, sezione del volume (“Spiritus vivens”) torna al centrale tema 
dell’influenza del pensiero neoplatonico fiorentino sullo sviluppo dell’intero dibattito 
filosofico-retorico italiano. Colilli offre un suggestivo esame della filosofia 
dell’immagine in Ficino e di come essa venga sviluppata in Bruno e Vico. II tentativo di 
Bruno di formulare una scienza delle immagini che si traduca in un linguaggio 
tropologico, soprattutto in De imaginum, signorum et idearum compositione, viene messa 
a confronto con il vichiano concetto di “universali.” Particolarmente interessanti sono le 
pagine in cui Colilli analizza in dettaglio come Bruno struttura la sua “alchemia delle 
immagini” attraverso un processo che potremmo definire come “retoricizzazione” (139- 
44). Altrettanto riuscito é il settimo capitolo dedicato al processo metaforizzante 
formulato nella Scienza Nuova (“Cognitive Properties of the Mental Gaze”). 

Piu che offrire possibili ed in realta inesistenti soluzioni all’irreversibile separazione 
tra diverse aree linguistiche, tra intuizione e scienza, tra retorica e realta esterna, il libro 
di Colilli pone in risalto l’ancora ben sentito desiderio di tornare ad un’ “armonia” tra 
dire e conoscere. Tuttavia, il segno ermetico, come si legge nel capitolo nove 
(“Unsignable Conjuctions”), il quale si muove verso un assorbimento del “nonreale”, del 
caos e del contraddittorio, pil che significare un pil alto contatto con la realta a parer 
nostro esemplifica l’irriducibilita del reale stesso, la reale inesistenza di uno “spirito 
vivente” che non sia momentanea proiezione del soggetto retorico. La “logica poetica,” 
come lo stesso Colilli sottolinea all’inizio del libro, nasce da cid che Cacciari definisce 
“la perdita,” il lamentare un possesso ormai negato (15). Non é un caso che nelle ultime 
pagine Colilli parli del segno “mercuriale” di Pasolini, un gesto linguistico che accoglie 
la contaminazione come sua essenza (199-200). Tuttavia, piuttosto che vedere la poetica 
pasoliniana come una nuova alchimia, la si dovrebbe leggere come espressione 
dell’irremediabilita di un segno “unico,” il comprendere appunto la definitiva assenza di 
un dire unificante e falsamente armonico nella sua stessa “contaminata” natura. Cid che 
Pasolini rende chiaro é che pil! che aspirare ad una “nuova” tropologia, un moderno 
concetto di logica poetica deve utilizzare la tropologia per minare |’autenticita di un 
processo conoscitivo soggettivizzante (127). Colilli sembra alludere a questo nel suo 
esame di De vinculis in genere di Bruno (191-93). Nell’ esame del testo bruniano Colilli 
mette in risalto come, nel formulare il concetto di un “vincolo” che leghi realta 
contrastanti, Bruno paradossalmente contraddice il legame tra significante e significato, e 
rivela il “non tematizzato spazio dell’abisso che é l’unita del significato” (193). Alcun 
processo di contaminazione pud assorbire |’ “abisso” in un atto di significazione. II nostro 
contemporaneo volgerci all’inesauribile fucina rinascimentale € un “necessario” atto 
archeologico, nel senso che, piti che produrre sistemi conoscitivi, il soggetto 


Italian Bookshelf 371 


contemporaneo é€ tornato all’antica arte della retorica, cioé dell’apparente dominio 
dell’abisso. 
Armando Maggi, University of Pennsylvania 


Graziella Parati. Public History, Private Stories. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 
1996. 


Graziella Parati presenta e analizza le autobiografie di cinque personaggi femminili e la 
complessita delle loro ricerche personali per il raggiungimento di una propria identita. La 
Parati non si propone di definire il genere autobiografico ma di evidenziarne |’uso fatto 
da queste scrittrici appartenenti a periodi storici ed a classi socio-culturali diversi ma 
accomunate dalla ricerca di una identita femminile nella sfera privata e pubblica. Per la 
Parati |’autobiografia € una narrazione in cui personaggi ed avvenimenti sono selezionati 
dallo scrivente per trasmettere un messaggio personale sul proprio passato e presente. La 
ricerca delle verita autobiografiche non interessa alla Parati. Il suo interesse la porta a 
privilegiare “those female autobiographies based upon the construction of 
nondichotomized portrayals of maternal and paternal roles” (9). In tal modo “the female 
characters become métisses, hybrid, the result of an intertwining of paternal and maternal 
traces” (10). Tuttavia il nocciolo dell’analisi della Parati non é il matroneum che 
definisce come sfera privata della donna nei suoi vari ruoli di moglie, figlia e madre 
“completed by the privileged ‘space of privacy’ inhabited by Man” (6). II matroneo é uno 
spazio nello spazio delimitato dal patriarcato ma non totalmente controllato da questo. 
Tuttavia per eliminarne i confini le autrici considerate dalla Parati partono da una rilettura 
del ruolo materno all’interno del matroneo. E il ricupero quindi del “matrilinearism” di 
quella struttura che la Parati denomina “gyneology”. Attraverso “gyn technique” é 
possibile intrecciare legami esclusivi all’interno del matroneum togliendolo dal suo 
isolamento anzi ricuperando la storia al femminile da questo delimitata e risalente a piu 
generazioni di donne. Tuttavia i due primi capitoli del libro della Parati, dedicati a 
Camilla Faa’ Gonzaga e Enid Robert, non sembrano rientrare in questo schema. La 
Historia della Faa’, breve scritto autobiografico del 1622 “contains an explicit description 
of a woman’s journey through different roles, totally controlled by the Public Man, or 
Padrone (Lord and Master), as she calls the duke.” Camilla scrive per dire la sua verita e 
l’importanza delle sue sedici pagine sta nel tentativo di definire l’indipendenza femminile 
in relazione al ruolo attribuitole dal Patriarcato. La Parati conclude che “What is missing 
in this context is an attempt to construct a dialectic of public and private in texts and how 
to shape the ‘space of literature’ as a realm in which public history and autobiographical 
stories can meet as equals” (43). 

La Parati dedica il suo secondo capitolo all’analisi di A Woman's Womb: A Surgical 
Novel (1919) e lo definisce come un tentativo mutilato di autobiografia letteraria. La 
Robert vuole e sceglie di essere diversa, vuole apparire come “an intermediate being”, 
vicina alla creativita dell’uomo di cui proclama la naturale superiorita. Il libro della 
Robert ha per la Parati il pregio di essere uno dei primi tentativi femminili di 
testimonianza sull’isterismo femminile cosi spesso narrato dagli uomini (70). II terzo 
capitolo, dedicato a Le quattro ragazze Wieselberg, teorizza la ricerca di Fausta Cialente 
per trovare una lingua appropriata a scrivere storie di donne. Presa tra il triestino materno 


372 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


e l’italiano paterno scegliera il secondo ma scegliera anche un volontario esilio che le 
permette di creare “a mediating condition between matricidal and patricidal tensions by 
deterritorializing the spheres and by reterritorializing her creative realms of authority. Her 
choice of voluntary exile becomes a protracted choice of marginality, because a new land 
to inhabit permanently is never found” (94). 

Elogio dell’imperfezione, opera di Rita Levi Montalcini apparsa nel 1988, é trattata 
nel quarto capitolo. La Parati sottolinea il fatto che il libro si apre e conclude con 
citazioni maschili, rispettivamente De Chirico e Primo Levi, creando quindi un 
andamento circolare che mette in rilievo la predominante cultura maschile. Scrive la 
Parati che sia per la Cialente che per la Levi Montalcini, “womanhood and motherhood 
are, within the familial sphere, identified with passivity and acquiescence” e che 
entrambe cercano di distanziarsi dal silenzio ereditato dalle reciproche madri ed il 
naturale bisogno personale di farsi ascoltare (102). Attraverso la loro creativita si 
costruiscono entrambe un iter che permette loro il raggiungimento di un io indipendente. 
Il libro si conclude con un approfondito studio di Autoritratto di Gruppo di Luisa 
Passerini. Pubblicato nel 1988 il libro definisce il ruolo femminile pubblico non come 
meta finale ma come I’inizio “of an alternative path in which the public sphere is not 
privileged” (125). La Passerini, diversamente dalle altre scrittrici considerate, si propone 
di analizzare il significato della sua vita privata nel dominio pubblico. La sua scrittura si 
puo definire un “ibrido formale” che raccoglie la sua voce e quella di altri (attraverso 
interviste) creando una pluralita di voci che sono parte integrante della storia. La Parati 
scruta il complesso periodo storico di cui la Passerini é stata una protagonista a partire 
dagli anni sessanta e sottolinea il fatto che cinque anni dopo la pubblicazione della sua 
autobiografia scrive un saggio sulla stessa. Per la Parati tale saggio indica che “she has 
finally come to terms with the fact that the narration of the self is rightfully part of her 
public production, and that her public self is not at odds with the private identity as they 
are juxtaposed in the narrative of her life” (151). 

Graziella Parati ha scritto un libro di notevole interesse per la scelta delle autrici da 
lei considerate ma soprattutto per la notevole preparazione e abilita con cui ha affrontato 
e creato legami nell’intricato tessuto del femminismo italiano. Le autobiografie da lei 
presentate sono oggetto di attenta analisi filtrata attraverso un’accurata e intelligente 
preparazione che non si limita alla cultura e societa italiana, anche se predominanti, 
inserendo entrambe nel vasto panorama culturale europeo ed americano. 

Per l’analisi del genere autobiografico, per la valutazione del suo diverso valore in 
epoche e personalita differenziate, per la ricchezza dei riferimenti e |’abbondanza delle 
citazioni il libro si presta a molteplici usi, sia in corsi di cultura italiana che come 
stumento di confronto in corsi globali o nei programmi di Women’s Studies. Lo si 
consiglia anche a chiunque voglia riflettere e capire il difficile iter femminile per la 
conquista di uno spazio pubblico e privato coesistenti in armonia. 


Rosalia Colombo Ascari, Sweet Briar College 


Italian Bookshelf 373 


Gian Biagio Conte. The Hidden Author: An Interpretation of Petronius’s Satyricon. 
Trans. Elaine Fantham. Sather Classical Lectures, 60. Berkeley: U of California P, 
1996. Pp. x + 226. 


This volume presents the author’s six 1995 Sather lectures, ably translated from the 
Italian by Elaine Fantham, and supplemented by a bibliography, a general index, and an 
index of classical passages. 

In Chapter 1, “The Mythomaniac Narrator and the Hidden Author,” Conte defines 
the “hidden author” of his title: “as a deliberate strategy, the author refuses to play a 
direct role in the account, preferring to make himself a detached external observer, like 
the reader whose complicity he is seeking” (26-7). In Conte’s reading of Petrionius, the 
characters in the Satyricon are self-conscious scholastici, students of rhetoric who 
declaim about their lives. Thus, when early in the novel Encolpius rages at the unfaithful 
Ascyltus, he echoes Homer’s Achilles and Virgil’s Aeneas. With contrasting citations 
from pseudo-Longinus’s On the Sublime, Conte aptly characterizes Petrinius’s technique 
as a “deflation of the sublime” (21). The subsequent appearance of Eumolpus in the 
picture gallery occasions a useful discussion of parallel scenes in the Aeneid and the 
Greek novel. Conte concurs with Heinze’s theory that the Satyricon derives generically 
from the Greek erotic novel. 

In Chapter 2, “The Mythomaniac Narrator and the Longing for the Sublime,” Conte 
identifies a second source of Petronian irony in addition to the Greek novel: the 
exaggerated rhetoric of the school declamation. In particular, he cites three literary 
models for Encolpius’s furious declamation: Achilles’s quarrel with Agamemnon, 
Aeneas’s tirade against Helen, and Cicero’s Philippics. Petronius exploits another cliché 
of Neronian schooling by parodying the recognition scene, typified by Odysseus in epic 
and Orestes in tragedy. As Conte observes, “Petronius’s narrative can only present 
farcical recognitions like that of Lichas who, by casting a glance at the genitals of 
Encolpius, rediscovers an old acquaintance” (53). The storm at sea occasions similar 
treatment. Parallels from Seneca the Elder are used to illustrate the scholastic nature of 
Encolpius’s meditations on the shipwrecked corpse. Conte adduces important parallels to 
the poetic manifesto of Eumolpus, praecipitandus est liber spiritus (68-72). 

In Chapter 3, “The Deceptiveness of Myth,” Conte examines how Petronius exploits 
the extraordinary events characteristic of the ancient novel, and gives them a parodic 
twist. In the Satyricon, the melodramatic motif of attempted suicide becomes Encolpius 
and Giton tussling over a mock razor. The primary subtext is the epic model of Virgil’s 
Nisus and Euryalus. But Giton himself explicitly invokes a tragic precedent, that of 
Jocasta interceding between Eteocles and Polynices(79). By the same token, Encolpius’s 
encounter with Circe makes him a second Odysseus, reduced to an anti-hero afflicted by 
Priapus with impotence. Persecuted by Priapus, Encolpius imagines himself restored to 
virility by the ithyphallic deity Mercury. 

Chapter 4, “Sex, Food, and Money: Low Themes versus High Scenarios,” first 
examines Petrionius’s famed Milesian tale, the story of the widow of Ephesus. Conte 
notes a parallel between this tale and the episode of Encolpius’s slaying of a goose sacred 
to Priapus: in both narratives the lower elements of sex, food, and money reduce the 
romance situation to a coarser banality. Elsewhere in the novel, Conte notes, “sex, food, 
and money produce both an alternative scenario and two major antagonists: Quartilla and 
Trimalchio” (114). After a brief discussion of Quartilla’s Priapean vigil, the discussion 


374 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


turns to the Cena Trimalchionis, the most celebrated episode in Petrionius’s narrative. 
Conte notes that while this dinner party vulgarizes Plato’s Symposium, the immediate 
model is a Latin classic, Horace’s Satire 2.8, in which Fundanius describes Nasidienus’s 
banquet. Central to the language of the episode is Trimalchio’s linking of rhetoric with 
cookery, a comparison which originated in the anti-rhetorical context of Plato’s Gorgias. 

Chapter 5, “The Quest for a Genre (or Chasing Will 0’ the Wisps?): Some Skeptical 
Thoughts on Menippean Satire,” examines the questions posed by the Satyricon’s 
prosimetric form. Conte notes how literary critics from Bakhtin on have defined 
Menippean satire in ways which add little to our understanding of the classical context. 
By contrast to Menippean satire, which ridicules gods and heroes in trivial contexts, the 
Satyricon portrays low characters striving for sublimity. At the same time, Petronius 
preserves the verisimilitude which Menippean satire so readily sacrifices to paradoxical 
humor. Even the prosimetric form, considered the hallmark of Menippean works, may in 
fact link the Satyricon to the Greek comic novel, as has been shown by the recent 
discovery of papyri fragments containing the so-called romances of Iolaus and Tinuphis 
(162-65). 

In Chapter 6, “Realism and Irony,” Conte observes that realism in literature lies not 
in Auerbachian mimesis. Instead, “Petronian realism, if we want to call it realism, is the 
capacity to transpose into the text different symbolic systems and different spheres and 
experiences of life, and to do so with an empathy that excludes both sympathy and the 
aggressivity of satire” (177-79). Conte compares Encolpius’s mythomania with the 
imperial taste for pantomime. Returning to the theme of realism, Conte concludes with a 
reading of the short poem, “Quid me constricta spectatis fronte Catones” (132.15). Far 
from constituting the author’s own apology for his work, Conte shows how this poetic 
outburst of Encolpius, precipitated by his impotence, confuses reality with literature. 

Conte’s lectures read very well, thanks in part to the fluid translation of Elaine 
Fantham. Like the Petronian narrative, they occasionally digress to offer fascinating 
glimpses of ancient culture. Indeed, his episodic essays manage to create a Petronian 
atmosphere of novelty and variety while repeating the same thematic material. Conte 
characterizes the Satyricon in words which seem to describe his own study: “the echoes 
must be heaped up in order to recall powerful moments of the literary universe” (87). 

One might protest that the “hidden author” of the title is merely what others call the 
subtext, which in turn is the traditional object of Quellenforschung, a field in which 
Conte has few peers. And one might complain that Conte is covering his tracks in his first 
lecture when, in highlighting the illusory world of the scholastici, he avoids the opening 
episode of the Satyricon, which explicitly introduces the theme. But such remarks detract 
little from what constitutes an important and engaging study of Petronius’s enigmatic 
masterpiece. 

David Marsh, Rutgers University 


Italian Bookshelf 375 


Emilia Ferreiro, Clotilde Pontecorvo, Nadja Moreira, Isabel Garcia Hidalgo. 
Cappuccetto Rosso impara a scrivere, Scandicci (Firenze): La Nuova Italia, 1996. 
Pp.xiv + 326 + diskette. 


Only a scholar of the caliber of Raffaele Simone could succeed in prevailing upon four 
professors of three different countries to cooperate and prepare six essays on 
psycholinguistics in Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. Simone does not need an 
introduction: not only is he professor of linguistics at the University of Rome “La 
Sapienza,” but, for many years, he has been the prime mover behind the publishing house 
“La Nuova Italia”. Emilia Ferreiro teaches at the CINVESTAV (Centro de Investigacién 
y Estudios Avanzados) in Mexico City. Isabel Garcia Hidalgo is a researcher at the 
Coordinacién de Servicios de Cémputo in El Colegio de México. Nadja Moreira is a 
specialist in reading and writing at the Departamento de Letras Vernaculas in the 
Universitade Federal de Ceara (Fortaleza, Brasil). Finally, Clotilde Pontecorvo teaches 
Educational Psychology at the University of Rome “La Sapienza.” In addition, a fifth 
scholar participating in the preparation of the book, Daniela Fabbretti, is identified as a 
member of the Department of Psychology at “La Sapienza.” These scholars are united by 
a common thread, namely, their interest in learning how children solve the problem of 
putting their thoughts in writing, when asked to prepare a composition on a familiar 
subject. In addition to the present Italian edition, the book appeared in Spanish under the 
sponsorship of Editor Gedisa and in Portuguese by Editor Atica, so that the Italian editor 
can justly boast that the present book is but one of three variants of an original that does 
not exist (xiv). 

The challenges encountered in preparing the book were diverse and seemed, at first, 
overwhelming, since they were of a pedagogical and technical nature. The writers based 
their work on many previous studies showing that children, regardless of the language 
used, try to render the spoken language into written symbols at an earlier age than it was 
heretofore believed. The authors agreed that the text to be studied would be Cappuccetto 
Rosso (La Caperujita Roja in Spanish, Chapeuzinho in Portuguese), because of its great 
popularity among children speaking any of the three Romance languages. The main 
technical problem was the creation of a data bank and of the appropriate software 
supporting such data. The problem of a data bank was solved by the cooperation between 
the Mexican and the Italian committees on scientific research (CONACYT in Mexico, 
CNR in Italy) that resulted in an exchange of researchers. The solution of the software 
problem was TEXTUS, developed by one of the CNR’s subcommittees, and is explained 
by Isabel Garcia Hidalgo in the Appendix (239-77) and in a guide, prepared by Garcia 
Hidalgo and Daniela Fabbretti (279-310). 

Once they agreed which software was to be used, the scholars had to agree upon the 
elements to be analyzed, such as line, punctuation, variants of transcription, and 
morphology. They then researched the hypothesis that children generally tend toward 
hyposegmentation, namely, they attach to each other many of the elements that would be 
separate in a grammatically correctly written string. This is similar to what occurs to 
someone listening to a foreign language with which he or she is not yet familiar and all 
sounds combine into what seems to be an unending word. The complexity of analysis 
confronting the authors was exacerbated by the different problems encountered in 
different languages. While Italian children, for example, have difficulties in transcribing 
double consonants, Spanish-speaking children are baffled by words whose meanings 


376 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


change according to punctuation, or lack thereof, such as ;cémo? (how?) and como (as), 
or {por qué? (why) and porque (because). 

The book is composed of an introduction, six essays, an appendix, a bibliography, 
and an index. The first essay, “Lingua scritta e ricerca comparativa” by Pontecorvo and 
Ferreiro, contains the fundamental problems outlined above. It is followed by “I confini 
tra le parole” by Ferreiro and Pontecorvo, which studies the historical meaning of the 
word “word” in its significance of segmentation of a written text and further investigates 
the statistical distributions of hyper and hyposegmentation. Clotilde Pontecorvo’s essay, 
“L’apostrofo unisce 0 separa,” is of interest only to Italian scholars, since Spanish and 
Portuguese do not use this sign of punctuation. The fourth essay, Moreira and 
Pontecorvo’s “Chapeuzinho/Cappuccetto: norme e variazioni grafiche,” is a comparative 
and statistical study of variants occurring mostly in Brazilian Portuguese and of the 
variants occurring in the spelling of the Italian “Cappuccetto.” The following essay, 
Emilia Ferreiro’s “I confini del discorso: la punteggiatura,” is of great interest to all 
scholars of historical linguistics, as it draws a detailed history of punctuation, beginning 
as early as the sixth century and ending with a comparative study of how Italian and 
Spanish children solve the problems of punctuation. The final essay by Ferreiro and 
Moreira, “Le ripetizioni e le loro funzioni testuali,” studies the phenomenon of repetition 
in Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. It has already been mentioned that in the appendix, 
Isabel Garcia Hidalgo explains the characteristics and functions of the system, TEXTUS, 
that was purposely developed for this project. The files contained in the diskette attached 
to the book are in ASCII so that they can be read by any word processor. 

A few years ago, this reviewer wrote an essay on the impact of American English on 
the Italian language (“L’ italiano che commercia con |’anglo-statunitense,” Jtaliano e oltre 
5.3 (1990): 131-135). The remarks made eight years ago are not only confirmed by the 
language employed by the four writers, but the borrowings from American-English have 
become matter-of-fact, when it comes to the technical jargon of computerism. 
Expressions like “nella directory,” “della subdirectory,” “nel file (pronounced [fail]” are 
common throughout the “Guida rapida per l’uso del sistema TEXTUS.” It is also 
interesting to find the English “clause” translated with the Italian “clausola,” a meaning it 
has only very recently acquired. 

Of course, this book is intended for the specialist of psycholinguistics and requires, 
in addition to a modest grounding in this discipline, a moderate knowledge of Spanish, 
and Portuguese. But it should be read also by linguists in related fields, since it contains a 
wealth of information that is generally assembled not in one, but in many volumes. 
Additionally, the bibliography is ample and up-to-date. The book should also be read 
very attentively by reading specialists, since it may open new vistas in pedagogical 
problems related to reading. Finally, this treasure warrants the extension of the 
international cooperation mentioned in my initial paragraph: an English translation 
should be a matter of course. 


Robert C. Melzi, Emeritus, Widener University 


Italian Bookshelf 377 


Monica Farnetti, ed. Geografia, storia e poetiche del fantastico. Firenze: Leo S. 
Olschki Eitore, 1995. Pp. 244. 


Il libro raccoglie le comunicazioni avvenute alla biblioteca comunale di Ferrara nel 
gennaio 1994, presentate, come scrive nella sua introduzione Monica Farnetti, curatrice 
dell’ opera, “secondo esigenze di ordine rispettivamente geografico, storico e poetico” (5). 
La raccolta si apre con cinque saggi attestanti il contributo della critica italiana nell’area 
della geografia del fantastico per una presa di coscienza della tradizione teorica italiana, 
gia postulata da precedenti lavori di gruppo di scuola pisana (La narrazione fantastica, 
1983) e romana (J piaceri dell’immaginazione, 1987, e Fantastico e Immaginario, 1988). 

Il saggio di Barnaba Maj sulla letteratura tedesca sostiene che “l’inquietante é la 
cifra determinante e caratteristica del fantastico” (12). Attraverso una parziale analisi 
dell’opera di Kafka il Maj giunge alla conclusione che “I’Unheimliche coincide con la 
lingua stessa, in uno sforzo neo-gnostico di ricuperare linguisticamente il senso della 
deiezione, in quanto radicalita dello spaesamento” (24). 

I] saggio che segue, di Silvia Albertazzi, considera il fantastico nella letteratura 
inglese attraverso |’ottica di Christopher Candwell, per il quale “soggettivita fantastica e 
Oggettivita realistica” non sono “nella letteratura britannica, forme separate, ma 
espressioni di un’unica contrapposizione fra l’io e il mondo” (27). Il fantastico sarebbe 
quindi presente tanto nei grandi romanzi realistici inglesi quanto nelle narrazioni gotiche, 
perché in entrambi i casi si tratta di un mondo fittizio di cui “il fantastico ne é 
l’esasperazione al fine della sorpresa” (28). La storia fantastica permette al lettore di 
ritrovarsi tra le paure quotidiane. L’inquietudine socio-politica della nostra epoca 
favorisce e incrementa il desiderio del fantastico nel quale “si raccontino bugie per dire la 
verita” (32). Sostiene Salman Rushdie , esponente della letteratura postcoloniale, che 
“Lirrealta é l’unica arma con cui la realta pud essere distrutta, in modo che la si possa in 
seguito ricostruire” (33). Il fantastico di questa letteratura si differenzia dal fantastico 
occidentale nella sua rappresentazione dei fatti che sono gia assurti a mito. Si tratta 
quindi di personaggi che provocano nel lettore disorientamento pil che empatia. Nel 
confronto che |’autrice fa tra l’opera dei “due maggiori autori anglofoni di letteratura non 
mimetica, Stephen King e Salman Rushdie” (35) emerge una sostanziale differenza. Per 
King “lo scrittore di horror non é altro che un agente dello Status quo” (36), per Rushdie 
é invece l’evocatore “delle paure ancestrali dei coloni nei confronti degli indigeni e della 
diffidenza di questi ultimi nei confronti dei coloni” (37). 

Nel terzo saggio Anna Botta presenta la tecnica narrativa di Georges Perec, ispirata 
alla mise en abyme, al trompe-l’oeil e al puzzle soffermandosi in particolare sulla novella 
“Storia di un quadro” e sul romanzo “La vita, istruzioni per l’uso.” Qui le strategie 
narrative fanno “dubitare dei propri sensi, dello statuto della realta quotidiana, dello 
spazio in cui ci si muove” (48) mettendo in dubbio la nozione stessa dello spazio, creando 
una nuova inquietante visione del fantastico. Interessante é il saggio di Emilia Perassi che 
ci propone il caso di Silvina Ocampo, il cui fantastico vede nell’erudizione una “dorata 
catena” (59) da cui liberarsi orientandosi “piuttosto in direzione del semiotico originario, 
luogo dal quale deconstruire, anziché innalzare un modo della lingua, quindi del 
pensiero” (58). La prima parte della raccolta si conclude con Beatrice Bonadiman che 
attribuisce la presenza del magico nella letteratura russa, anche nell’Ottocento, per la 
particolare posizione della Chiesa locale che nei confronti di streghe e stregoni si vede 
costretta a “difenderli dalle azioni violente e vendicative della popolazione” (68). 


378 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


La seconda parte della raccolta presenta una progressione storica del fantastico 
partendo dal Cligés di Chrétien de Troyes che per Francesco Zambon si iscrive “nella 
storia di un antichissimo motivo tradizionale che trova origine nell’idea sciamanica dello 
sposo o della sposa soprannaturali” (76). Alessandro Scarsella analizza le funzioni 
dell’immaginazione attraverso indagini sulla poetica antica e medioevale e conclude 
affermando che in Vico lidentificazione di fantasia ed ingegno suggerisce il 
ricongiungimento del fantastico della vera poesia alla sua originaria natura religiosa. 
Monica Farnetti sottolinea la necessita di una diversa interpretazione del termine 
“visione” secondo le varie epoche letterarie e attraverso |’analisi dell’opera del Varano 
conclude che “nel secolo dei Lumi, e nel corpo della poesia visionaria, la religione 
immaginativa” (119) soccombe mentre si impone la retorica razionalistica della visione. 
Per il Lattaruolo il fantastico “é presente piuttosto come componente, per lo pit 
marginale, del romanzo storico, della novella sentimentale in versi, del libretto d’ opera, 
della ballata romantica” (126-2). Le prime esperienze comunque pit significative si 
ritrovano nell’ “elaborazione del lutto, di un legame con il passato che diviene prigionia o 
malattia . . . primi segni di un fantastico veramente moderno” (132-3). Questa seconda 
sezione si conclude con le riflessioni di Valentina Contini sulla scrittura di Giorgio 
Manganelli. Conclusione appropriata visto che per lo scrittore il testo é “uno spazio 
mentale disegnato da una struttura verbale” e il linguaggio é “‘incantamento, evocazione 
allucinatoria” (136). Per lui il linguaggio é@ organizzazione, anzi autoorganizzazione, 
perché pud solo comunicare se stesso non avendo nessuna funzione referenziale. Questo 
significa il rifiuto del verosimile perché il linguaggio “é il perpetuarsi di una ‘bella fola’, 
‘una grande e infinita menzogna’” (140). 

La terza parte della raccolta si apre con una erudita presentazione sul “Fantastico e 
Teoria Letteraria” di Filippo Secchieri per il quale “il fantastico ¢ sempre, e non soltanto 
accessoriamente, la qualificazione di un’esperienza di lettura, di un uso particolare del 
testo, che prende corpo durante le interazioni che consentono la produzione di 
significanza” (147). Per questa dimensione relazionale é difficile stabilire l’essenza 
ultima del fantastico perché in ogni opera letteraria “il linguaggio normalmente prende 
congedo dalla realta . . . lungo una traiettoria che secondo un’indicazione del Manganelli, 
congiunge l’esperienza letteraria alla condizione originaria del parlante” (149-50). 
L’alterita e la polisemia sono quindi condizioni inseparabili della finzione letteraria della 
categoria fantastica, categoria estetica pili che genere letterario, in quanto il fantastico é 
prerogativa della fabula pit che dell’intreccio. 

Nel saggio seguente di Giorgio Rimondi si analizza la formazione dell’immagine 
speculare che é all’origine del carattere “immaginario” dell’io costituentesi nell’ Altro e 
quindi nell’inconscio, partendo dal presupposto che la dimensione visiva é il punto 
centrale del pensiero di Lacan. Il Rimondi nota che reale e realta ricorrono come sinonimi 
nella valutazione del fantastico e suggerisce una revisione della terminologia critica, alla 
luce dello sforzo teorico di Lacan. 

I] fantastico come “uno dei punti di incontro tra |’attivita scientifica e quella poetico- 
letteraria” (177) € quanto sostiene Antonella Fabbrini, essendo l’immaginazione una 
facolta essenziale per lo scienziato. Una serrata e interessante presentazione del fantastico 
nei romanzi di D’Annunzio é il contributo di Francesca Mellone che lo individua “in un 
codice visivo, sulla traccia di somiglianze che chiedono all’immagine di coniugare il 
segno iconico con quello verbale” (194). Fabrizio Bagatti nell’esaminare il mondo reale e 
immaginario della letteratura per l’infanzia vede la seduzione della fiaba “nella 


Italian Bookshelf 379 


presunzione estrema che la parola coincida con il fatto, che il ‘reale’ e |’ ‘immaginario’ 
siano le due facciate di un medesimo foglio, indivisibili e parimenti necessarie |’una 
all’ ontologia dell’altra” (214). Il libro si conclude con una presentazione molto dettagliata 
della sfortuna di tale produzione a partire dagli anni quaranta. Ma nel 1970 “si verifico 
una vera rivoluzione editoriale” (224) con la collana “Cosmo” che ebbe immnediato 
successo. E l’inizio dell’assunzione di piena “dignita culturale da parte della letteratura 
dell’immaginario e dei suoi autori” (225) che negli anni 90 assume notevole importanza 
sia sotto forma di libri che di riviste. 

Il libro é indubbiamente interessante, e spaziando in tempi, luoghi e letterature 
diverse, offre una molteplicita d’ipotesi di studio che possono soddisfare interessi di vario 
tipo o suggerire nuovi itinerari di cultura. 


Rosalia Colombo Ascari, Sweet Briar College 


Donato Pirovano. Modi narrativi e stile del Novellino di Masuccio Salernitano. 
Pubblicazioni della facolta di lettere e filosofia dell’universita degli studi di Milano, 
168. Sezione di filologia moderna 23. Firenza: La Nuova Italia Editrice, 1996. 
Pp.281. 


Donato Pirovano has undertaken to follow up the particular stylistic observations of 
Petrocchi, Gentile, et al. with a systematic stylistic analysis of Masuccio’s Novellino. His 
aim is in part to win new appreciation for what Pirovano claims, with some justice, to be 
one of the most original and striking of Boccaccio’s many imitators. This study, which 
makes a number of interesting and valuable contributions, is divided into three major 
sections: one on narrative modes or techniques, a second on rhetorical aspects or figures 
of speech, and a third on syntax and vocabulary. 

Beginning with a look at the macro-structure, i.e. Masuccio’s manner of composing 
the once separate tales into a connected whole, Pirovano indicates how Masuccio has 
created, through his framing materials and through stylistic features of the narratives, an 
ongoing conversation between himself and his selected audience. He then lays out a 
series of narrative “modi” or “tecniche” — almost subgenres — which are typical of 
Masuccio’s stories. Later these are gathered under three broader rubrics: 1) narrative 
modes, the more diffuse “racconto-romanzo” and the more focused “novella-episodio” in 
which events are primarily told by the narrator with very little dialogue; 2) the more 
theatrical “novella-contrasto” (an encounter between two characters), “mimo” and 
“commedia” (these seem analogous in their more concentrated or diffuse focus to the 
episodio and romanzo, although Pirovano neither says so nor arranges them in an order to 
make the parallel evident) with an emphasis on dialogue, gesture, props, and an audience 
(the urban crowd, the rest of the convent); and 3) the “novella-polemica” in which a 
shameful scene is shown and occasions an impassioned tirade, either by a character or by 
the author himself. Although Pirovano acknowledges that tales cannot always be clearly 
placed in one or another of these categories, the laying out of these “tecniche” allows for 
some observations about the differences between Masuccio’s preferences and those of his 
obvious but reworked model Boccaccio. For example, Pirovano points out Masuccio’s 
strong interest in the use of dramatic scenes of encounter to juxtapose opposite extremes, 


380 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


and his lack of interest in the verbal play or witty repartee which structure so many of the 
tales of the Decameron. He also observes stylistic differences among Masuccio’s own 
modes: for example, between the simple “disse” of the dramatic modes and the more 
elaborate phrases (e.g., “con rencriscimento grandissimo”) of the narrated modes. 

The chapter on rhetorical figures immediately indicates Masuccio’s aims: especially 
emotional expressivity and the creation of a self-conscious literariness or elevated 
discourse. There is a long list of metaphors, illustrating the variety of areas from which 
Masuccio drew his vehicles (although the tenor seems to be almost always erotic), and 
comments distinguishing the characteristic aspects of his style (his preference for 
metaphor over simile, the frequency of hyperbole) as well as on types of figures which 
Masuccio used little and only in the most conventional manner (e.g. metonymy, 
personification). I am glad to see that Pirovano pays attention also to the phonic qualities 
of style, pointing out that Masuccio clearly expected his stories to be read aloud. He 
remarks, for example, Masuccio’s preference for harsh, hard, or sibilant sounds, his use 
of cursus, and his tendency to end a tale with rhymed clauses. Fascinating comparisons of 
an earlier manuscript version of some tales with the later printed version allow Pirovano 
to note how Masuccio reworked his material to add in some of these effects. Thus we get 
a glimpse of the polishing process in the development of Masuccio’s prose. Pirovano also 
analyzes particular passages for their combination of figures to create an effect. 
“Masuccio non parla, grida,” he comments (168), pointing to a piling up of phrases with 
apostrophe, anaphora, hyperbole, imagery, and evocations of Dante’s hell, all working 
together towards the aim of intensification. 

The analysis of syntax shows how Masuccio, while trying to imitate Boccaccio’s 
long and complex sentences, tends toward simpler syntactical constructions, producing an 
effect of complexity by the accumulation of parallel phrases or by the interruption and 
suspension of phrases. Again comparisons with the manuscript versions reveal 
Masuccio’s efforts to move away from a simple, paratactic syntax to something with a 
more dignified tone. Pirovano examines the differences between framing material and 
narrative, and between one mode of narrative and another, to see how syntax might 
contribute to their distinctiveness. He notes features which seem characteristic of 
Masuccio but are more generally attributable to a fifteenth-century or a Neapolitan, a 
novellistic or a humanistic style. Masuccio’s fondness for symmetrical series of phrases, 
and for Latinisms even in comic episodes, are clearly illustrated. The study offers many 
good observations: Masuccio’s drawing from Boccaccio’s Corbaccio as well as from the 
Decameron , his use of proverbs especially in the framing materials, the particular 
frequency and fruitful use of religious vocabulary, the lack of interest (contrasting with 
Boccaccio’s) in varying regional dialects to suit the geography of the tale. Pirovano 
concludes that Masuccio uses a more limited range of focus, mood, style, and tone than 
Boccaccio, but that this very limitation produces a unified atmosphere which is his most 
original characteristic in the novella tradition. It is an atmosphere reinforced by 
Masuccio’s own continually reinserted presence, within the narrative as well as in its 
framing. 

This study has its weaker moments when it lapses into lists of examples without 
much analytic commentary. The chapter on different narrative modes, for example, has 
no conclusion after its descriptive list and we are left wanting to know a bit more: 
whether these modes contain all of Masuccio’s tales, for example, or only the most 
typical ones; how this set fits into the larger set of modes available to the novella 


Italian Bookshelf 381 


tradition, or to the novella writing of his century or of Naples , or at least to the 
Decameron. These are much broader questions, of course, but they would put the list of 
modes to further use. At the very least some indication of how these different modes will 
become part of the analysis of syntactical and rhetorical figures would be helpful at the 
chapter’s end. The section on Masuccio’s use of verbs is a list of particularly expressive 
verbs with barely any commentary at all; and the list of metaphors and similes, while 
illustrating variety, gets a bit tedious. Pirovano is at his best when he analyzes the 
creation of effects, the varied or specific use of particular figures, the technical 
differences between one mode and another, the ways in which Masuccio differs from 
Boccaccio, and the changes in Masuccio’s own writing over time. His conclusion does a 
good job of summing up what is particular to Masuccio’s style and how it compares to 
Boccaccio’s. A long, thorough, and up-to-date bibliography ends the volume. Anyone 
interested in Masuccio’s writing will find this study clearly written and very useful. 

Janet Levarie Smarr, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 


Maurizio Palma di Cesnola. Semiotica dantesca: profetismo e diacronia. Memoria del 
tempo, 4. Ravenna: Longo, 1995. Pp. 187. 


Beginning from the Singletonian premise that the Comedy emulates the “signifying” of 
Scripture, a kind of writing through which facts retrospectively gloss texts, and textual 
signs (retrospectively) gloss each other, the author, a professor of Italian literature at the 
University of Geneva, has himself produced a text to emulate: a magisterial model of 
how to decode Dante, who wrote the Comedy “non . . . per essere capito, ma per essere 
interpretato” (167). The author seeks to become Dante’s “lettore modello,” sensitive to 
the most subtle contextual, thematic, structural, semantic, lexical and numerological 
correspondences or analogies through which one textual locus echoes another (within the 
text or in a preceding authoritative text), setting up “parallel passages” in which one 
passage serves to gloss, or more strongly to “risemantizzare,” a previous passage, 
sometimes drawing on a third (external) text to do so. 

The author’s textual decoding thus has an explicit method, whose principles are 
outlined in the first chapter, using as an example Dante’s own application of the 
technique in Monarchia IIl, ix. It also has a precise focus: the prophecies of the Comedy, 
more exactly its predictions of future events, whether fictive (post eventum at the time of 
writing but not at the time of the imagined journey, and thus generally more detailed) or 
real (ante eventum, and thus more ambiguous). The general structure and classification of 
the various prophecies of the Comedy occupies the second chapter, which discusses also 
the distinction among Dante-character (who makes no prophecies), Dante-narrator, and 
the often-forgotten “terzo incomodo” (27), Dante-author (this discussion is not 
particularly penetrating, and the author could cite, among others, Teodolinda Barolini’s 
The Undivine Comedy: Detheologizing Dante [Princeton: Princeton UP, 1992], which is 
built on the insight that what Dante-narrator says he is doing is not the same as what the 
poet does); the distinction between narrating time (fifteen years) and narrated time (one 
week); the distinction between the Trecento reader who can decode references to current 
events (this is the reader the author seeks to become) and the “lettore eterno” (33) who 
can decode only the timeless meanings of the text; and the question whether Dante was or 


382 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


thought he was or only pretended to be a prophet. The author’s brief treatment of this last 
issue, which does not particularly concern him (he declares himself “agnostic” [168]), is 
the weakest point of the book, because the “limiti sfuggenti” between visio and fictio (in 
the author’s own evocative expression [168]) are not simply a matter of mimetic or 
narrative technique, but the result of a profound insight into the hypnotic power of finite 
being (the source of cupidigia), an insight which is very much connected with the 
ultimate prophetic stance of the text (the truth it seeks to reveal, or rather the conversion 
it aims to trigger). To be fair, however, these matters are the province of the “eternal” 
reader, not the decoder of contemporary concrete (political) references the author aspires 
to become. 

The third chapter is the substance of the book, and it is, in a word, mesmerizing. The 
author analyzes the messianic predictions of the Comedy as one “profezia in progress” 
(162), resolving “dis-homogeneous” (168) textual details into one evolving system: hence 
the “diacronia” of the title. As contemporary political circumstances change, the 
prophecy evolves in response, and the text gives new content to earlier prophecies by 
providing “parallel passages” which re-direct their interpretation. The prophecies are the 
canonical three, modeled on the three Augustan prophecies of the Aeneid: veltro (Inf. 1), 
515 (Purg. 33), and Cacciaguida’s prediction of the “incredible” future feats of a nine- 
year-old (Par. 17). To these the author adds a fourth, culminating, prophecy, modeled on 
the Christological-imperial prophecy of Virgil’s fourth Eclogue (“Iam redit et Virgo, 
redeunt Saturnia regna’’). In an analysis that is breathtaking in its ingenuity and precision, 
though in some (especially numerological) details perhaps overly subtle, he interprets the 
“DILigite iustitiam qui iudicatis terraM” of Par. 18 as Dante’s own announcement of the 
return of Virgo-iustitia (= monarchy, the plenitudo aetatis), to be triggered, in part, by his 
own Monarchia. 

The prophecy of the veltro (1307, in the author’s chronology) remains an 
intentionally generic imperial prophecy, invoking a triumphant return of justice, but 
written so that Federico da Montefeltro (perhaps Dante’s host) could recognize himself as 
a candidate. By the time of the Purgatorio (1310-1313), Henry VII has emerged as the 
real veltro, Dante’s Augustus, and Dante systematically prepares his anointment as the 
515 by designating, in earlier Purgatorial passages, Clement V (fuia) and Philip the Fair 
(gigante) as the /upa he is to destroy by the year 1315 (515 years from the coronation of 
Charlemagne). The death of all three by late 1314 coincides with a pause in writing the 
Comedy after Par. 5 (the Justinian cantos), during which Dante writes the Monarchia to 
replace the savior Henry VII, giving future ve/tri the philosophical arms needed to 
vanquish the /upa. He then, through a passage in Par. 16, re-dates the 515 prophecy to 
designate 1314, the year in which the fuia-gigante died and the Monarchia appeared, and 
critiques his own performance as “apprendista profeta” (113) in the rebuke of Aquinas 
(Par. 13). Through carefully crafted parallel passages, he then begins to prepare the 
ideological arms Henry VII lacked. 

Many of the single interpretations advanced have been proposed at one time or 
another (and sometimes forgotten) over the last seven hundred years, but perhaps never 
have they been integrated into such a coherent, persuasive and carefully argued system. 
Dozens of proposals are new, illuminating many details of the text. Those who have a 
vested interest in one interpretation or another will no doubt find much to dispute in the 
author’s hypotheses, which he himself always advances with exemplary prudence; for 
one who does not, this book provides a remarkably persuasive picture. It also provides a 


Italian Bookshelf 383 


cogent argument for its chronology of Dante’s works, which is essentially the standard 
one proposed by Parodi. (It is startling, however, that the author never raises the 
possibility that the Letter to Cangrande, at points quite important to his arguments, might 
not be authentic.) The book is beautifully written, lucid, elegantly structured, suffused 
with gentle ironic humor; despite its daunting title, it is at times as gripping as a detective 
story. Above all, the reader feels that he has entered Dante’s workshop, and knows the 
poet, his procedures, and his poem better than before. 

Christian Moevs, University of Notre Dame 


Stefano Prandi. I/ “diletto legno”. Aridita e fioritura mistica nella Commedia. Saggi 
di “Lettere italiane”, 46. Firenze: Olschki, 1994. Pp. 145. 


Stefano Prandi’s impressive book is a fine example of a genre by now well established in 
Dante studies on both sides of the Atlantic: the thematic monograph, tightly but 
revealingly focused on a particular aspect of the Commedia’s text, and given scope and 
resonance by its author’s immersion in both the accumulated history of Dante scholarship 
and the primary cultural materials generated across the centuries between the classical era 
and Dante’s own times. One suspects (though Prandi does not admit it!) that it began life 
as a tesi di laurea; if so, any laurels it gained, even merely metaphorical ones, were well 
deserved. It is a solid piece of scholarship, which merits the attention of any reader 
seriously interested in the mystical aspect of Dante’s thought and poetry. 

As his title suggests, Prandi is interested above all in the complementary, symbolic 
dyad, aridity-flowering, and the ways in which the former element — consistently seen as 
negative and tending toward evil, and manifested in a variety of significant details, 
especially in the first cantica — yields in the course of the poem’s development to the full 
understanding of and participation in the latter underlying the protagonist’s conclusive 
experience in Paradiso. The book is divided into two separate but related sections. In the 
first, “L’albero del male: /nf. XXXIV, 1-84” (13-86), the author begins from the last 
canto of Inferno and its depiction of Lucifer. He analyzes its symbolic ramifications in 
considerable detail and traces the line of imagery connecting trees and the Cross. The 
latter is familiar, of course, in the positive context of Christ’s sacrifice for mankind, but is 
studied here per viam negativam, along a path that leads from the parodic dead trees of 
the suicides’ wood (by way of the evocation of Lucifer’s own position as a “grottesca 
scimmiottatura” [52] of Christ’s crucifixion) to the inverted image of the Tree of Life 
become crux diaboli and therefore irredeemably sterile. 

Sterility is definitively counteracted in the second essay, “Il tema mistico della 
fioritura nella Commedia” (87-132). The first part studies “il simbolismo dell’albero 
fiorito nelle tradizioni leggendarie medievali,” ranging widely across medieval culture 
and dealing especially effectively with works produced and circulating in less highly 
educated circles than those of the clerical/intellectual élite. From this more general 
background the essay’s second section zeroes in on the Commedia, especially Purgatorio 
and Paradiso, examining the distillation of this cultural material that takes place in 
Dante’s poem, to the point where the motif of flowering-into-ripeness becomes a key 
descriptive element in the Commedia’s depiction of its principal character’s spiritual 
experience. 


384 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Both essays are nourished by their author’s wide reading in primary and secondary 
materials (in particular, Prandi, not without beneficial consequences for his argument, 
shows a much greater awareness of English-language scholarship than is the norm in 
Italy), and both offer inspiration for further scholarly reflection on the nature and extent 
of Dante’s involvement in the (or at least a) mystical tradition of the Christian Middle 
Ages. To that extent, the book more than fulfills its author’s hope that it will be “un 
contributo stimolante e un ulteriore invito alla lettura dell’alta, inesauribile poesia della 
Commedia” (12). 

Steven Botterill, University of California at Berkeley 


Amilcare A. Iannucci, ed. Dante: Contemporary Perspectives. Toronto Italian 
Studies: Major Italian Authors. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 1997. Pp. xxii + 299. 


It is a habit of Anglo-American dantisti, especially those working in North America, to 
reflect upon what they are doing, usually with some degree of wonder: how is it that after 
almost seven hundred years, and in an intellectual, religious, and cultural climate so 
removed from Trecento Florence, they can produce so much work, such interesting work, 
on Dante? While there is of course a world-wide Dante industry (Iannucci notes that at 
least 1,500 publications on Dante appeared between 1984 and 1988 [x]), there is a 
peculiar vitality to English-language Dante scholarship, a sense of new questions, new 
approaches, new results, new discoveries. Every few years that vitality contemplates 
itself, perhaps seeking to explain itself, in a volume of commissioned or recent essays 
covering a broad range of issues. In the last ten years, such volumes include Amilcare 
Iannucci’s earlier collection Dante Today (special issue of Quaderni d’italianistica 10.1- 
2 [1989]), Gian Carlo Alessio’s and Robert Hollander’s Studi americani su Dante 
(Milano: Franco Angeli, 1989), Dino Cervigni’s Dante and Modern American Criticism 
(Annali d’Italianistica 8 [1990]), Rachel Jacoff's Cambridge Companion to Dante 
(Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1993), and Theodore Cachey’s Dante Now: Current Trends 
in Dante Studies (Notre Dame: U of Notre Dame P, 1995). While these volumes differ in 
their motivation, origin, and audience, they are all useful, with a number of important 
contributions. Amilcare Iannucci’s new volume is one of the very best, for the unfailingly 
high standard of its essays, its broad range, and its intelligent structure. 

The fourteen essays, of which nine have been previously published in some form, 
mirror the dominant concerns of recent Anglo-American criticism, as reflected also in 
most of the collections mentioned above. The editor himself notes a special interest in 
Dante’s “minor works,” a focus on formal, intertextual, and narrative structures in the 
Comedy along with the question of Dante’s poetics, and the history of the poem’s 
reception (x, xx). A number of the essays touch on each other’s concerns: the palinode as 
a fundamental interpretative model for Dante’s works, the (textual) grounding of Dante’s 
unique claims to authority, the adequacy of Auerbach’s and Singleton’s typological 
analysis of Dante’s poetics, Dante’s metaliterary and auto-exegetical reflection, the 
implications of gender and sexual differentiation in the Comedy and the relation between 
literary text and life (Dante’s and ours). Three essays are dedicated to “nodal” or 
“structurally determining” episodes: Paolo and Francesca, Ulysses, and Earthly Paradise. 
An invaluable feature of the volume (and presumably of the new series in which it 


Italian Bookshelf 385 


appears) is that each essay provides a carefully selected but extensive bibliography; taken 
together, these bibliographies provide an up-to-date road map for many of the major 
issues in contemporary Dante studies. There is also a thorough index of names and 
textual passages. 

The editor’s introduction skillfully weaves together the themes of the essays and 
proposes its own explanation for Dante’s contemporary success: the Comedy is a 
“producerly” text, both “open” and “closed,” combining “the easy accessibility of the 
readerly with the complex discursive strategies of the writerly” (xiii-xiv). Iannucci is 
echoing his remarks in Dante Today (iv). The opening essay, Zygmunt Baranski’s “Dante 
and Medieval Poetics,” stresses the auto-exegetical nature of Dante’s work, his 
“obsession with the ars poetica” (8), and his insistent metaliterary reflections, which 
become progressively more radical and unorthodox; in this context Baranski discusses 
both the poem’s title and the authenticity of the Letter to Cangrande. Albert Ascoli’s 
“Palinode and History in the Oeuvre of Dante” proposes the palinode as “paradigmatic” 
for “Dantean intertextuality” (25), and shows its essentially constructed or rhetorical 
character by examining a tension among the Monarchia, Convivio, and Commedia. 
Michelangelo Picone’s brilliant “Dante and the Classics” studies the various Dantean 
canons of auctores, the passage from an Ovidian to a Virigilian model, from the Remedia 
amoris to the Metamorphoses as the Comedy’s primary classical intertext, and from 
imitatio to an anti-classicist aemulatio, in which “the recovery of classical poetry is 
conditional on its complete translation and total re-writing in the language of 
Christianity” (60). In “Dante and the Bible: Biblical Citation in the Divine Comedy,” 
through a number of illuminating analyses of specific passages, Christopher Kleinhenz 
shows “how Dante uses the biblical text as an integral part of his own text,” and “how 
meaning in the Comedy may be either generated or enhanced by a consideration of the 
larger referential context provided by the biblical tradition” (77). Iannucci’s own essay, 
“Forbidden Love: Metaphor and History (/nferno 5),” elegantly expands the dominant 
critical tradition on Paolo and Francesca (the critique of courtly love) to read the episode 
as emblematic of the tragic social consequences of cupidity (for which adulterous passion 
becomes the central metaphor), a pattern embodied in “the tragic spectacle of history” 
(103). “Dante’s Ulysses: Narrative and Transgression” is a synthesis of some of the 
central insights of Teodolinda Barolini’s The Undivine Comedy: Detheologizing Dante 
(Princeton: Princeton UP, 1992): “if the pilgrim learns to be not like Ulysses, the poet is 
conscious of having to be ever more like him. The Paradiso, if it is to exist at all, cannot 
fail to be transgressive; its poet cannot fail to be a Ulysses” (119). This Ulyssean 
component is mirrored in the textual fracturing, stuttering, and “jumping” of the 
Paradiso. 

In “Narrative Design in Earthly Paradise,” Richard Lansing studies “the conceptual 
structure” of Purgatorio 28-33, showing how it mirrors that of each terrace of Purgatory: 
“the eighth terrace, gathering and integrating all of what comes before, embraces the 
previous seven and simultaneously transcends them by going one beyond, to achieve the 
definitive view of the role of the individual within the context of human history” (142). 
Lino Pertile (“A Desire of Paradise and a Paradise of Desire: Dante and Mysticism’) 
stresses that what Dante depicts in Paradise is not union with God, but “the way in which 
Dante the pilgrim draws closer and closer to that point” (161). What he is depicting is 
desire, “for where there is no desire left to fill, there is no language and no poetry” (163). 
In “Dante and the Authority of Poetic Language,” Steven Botterill argues strongly that 


386 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Dante did not share the skepticism about language and referentiality attributed to him by 
postmodern critics, “the fruit of a theologically deracinated criticism” (177). That 
language has limits does not mean that Dante’s quest for a word both ornata and santa 
(174), epitomized in the discourse of St. Bernard in the empyrean, ends in falsehood, 
fiction, and chaos. Joan Ferrante (“Dante and Politics”) provides a survey of political 
issues in Dante’s works, with wide-ranging references, and introduces the theme of 
Dante’s “sexual politics,” in which androgyny becomes a “positive force” (191). This 
suggestion is extensively developed by Carolynn Lund-Mead in “Dante and Androgyny”: 
the fusion of masculine and feminine “express the crossing of psychic and ontological 
boundaries” (197), becoming an image of the Incarnation (“Beatrice is woman’s flesh. 
Without Christ as Word made flesh, Beatrice would not be the flesh which Dante makes 
word” (204). John Ahearn (“Singing the Book: Orality in the Reception of Dante’s 
Comedy”) explores the relation between oral (“‘an acoustic or musical event” [226]) and 
literary (“silent textual decodification” [222]) reception of the Comedy in Dante’s time, 
showing how central public performance was to the Comedy’s penetration of “all levels 
of Trecento society” (226). Deborah Parker’s “Interpreting the Commentary Tradition to 
the Comedy” is a lucid survey of the commentaries to the poem, focussing especially on 
the Trecento and the Renaissance, and classifying their uses; the essay includes a 
particularly useful bibliography. The volume ends with William Franke’s “Reader’s 
Application and the Moment of Truth in Dante’s Divine Comedy,” which initially 
appeared in Lectura Dantis 12 (1993), and was incorporated into Dante’s Interpretive 
Journey (Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1996). His Heideggerian reading supplies a telling 
critique of the notion, derived from Auerbach and Singleton, that “the poem’s claim to 
historical reality” is grounded “primarily in its mimetic realism”; through an elegant 
analysis of the Paolo and Francesca episode, Franke shifts that grounding to the 
interpretative act of reading itself, through which we (mis)define ourselves in history, like 
Francesca. 

Striking, in the volume as we have briefly surveyed it, is the absence of sustained 
reflection on philosophical, theological, moral, scientific, historical, and philological 
issues. While Americans have typically left the latter to the Italians, and the Singletonian 
era has passed for the others, still the volume under-represents the recent work in such 
fields (by Boyde, Durling, Martinez, Scott, Mazzotta, Cornish, Kay, Morgan, Carugati, 
Armour, Ryan, Najemy, to name just a few among many practitioners), thus perhaps 
unconsciously helping to define such concerns as marginal in the current critical climate. 
With this reservation, there may be no more useful volume of essays to put in the hands 
of contemporary students of Dante’s poem. 


Christian Moevs, University of Notre Dame 


Stephen Murphy. The Gift of Immortality: Myths of Power and Human Poetics. 
Madison: Fairleigh Dickinson UP, 1997. Pp. 319. 


This study examines a central topos in Western literature — the claim of poets to bestow 
immortality on heroes and patrons — and situates it within a broader intellectual context. 


Italian Bookshelf 387 


In his introduction, Murphy summarizes four modern thinkers who guide his inquiry: 
Vico, Cassirer, Adorno, and Marcel Mauss; and he points to the writers whose use of the 
topos he will analyze: Cicero, Horace, Ovid, Petrarch, Politian, and Budé. 

Chapter | reviews a series of related classical themes. Among the Greeks, Murphy 
examines the Homeric concept of k/eos, fame, and the social context of gift-giving in the 
Iliad and of song in the Odyssey; and he discusses Pindar’s “traffic in praise” (a phrase 
borrowed from Leslie Kurke’s 1991 study). Among the Romans, he reviews Cicero’s 
ideal of literary glory, expecially in the Pro Archia, which is a source for the anecdote 
about Alexander’s wish for a Homer to celebrate him. For the attitudes of Roman poets 
towards their patron Augustus, Murphy analyzes Horace Odes 4.8-9, and Ovid, Ex Ponto 
4.8. 

Chapter 2 deals with Petrarch, beginning with his political views of Rienzi and the 
Visconti, and culminating in an analysis of the topos of fame in his Africa. In this 
unfinished Latin epic, Scipio’s deeds are framed by somnia of military and poetic glory. 
The second of these, the dream in which Homer reveals to Ennius the future triumph of 
Scipio, is glossed as a form of “poetic metempsychosis” (114). 

In Chapter 3, “The Quattrocento and Poliziano,” Murphy begins by recounting how 
Vergerio and Salutati protested the destruction of the Mantuan statue of Virgil in 1397. 
Next, he surveys what humanists like Filelfo, Panormita, and Guarino wrote about 
patronage, which introduces a discussion of Poliziano’s Ambra, a Latin poem celebrating 
Homer and Poliziano’s patron Lorenzo de’ Medici. Next, Murphy traces what he calls the 
tradition of “poetic paleology . . . the representation of the primordial role of poetic 
language in forming individual and social humanity” (159). Here Murphy echoes the 
language of Vico, whose “theological poets” he finds foreshadowed in Petrarch, 
Boccaccio, and several Quattrocento humanists. Central to Poliziano’s Nutricia is the 
myth of Orpheus, who is associated with poetic frenzy, furor, a notion which Murphy 
explicates by adopting Foucault’s analysis of madness. But more important, Orpheus is 
an archetype of the city founder; and Poliziano’s Nutricia insistently alludes to the 
relations between ancient poets and their powerful patrons. 

Chapter 4 deals with the French humanist Guillaume Budé. Initially, Murphy’s 
discussion of Budé’s “mystical philology” (203) seems to shift his perspective from 
pagan to Christian culture, the theme of Budé’s last work, De transitu Hellenismi ad 
Christianismum (1535). Thus, if “the divine word bestows humanity’s goal, immortality” 
(211), the context is clearly not that of secular poetic fame. But Murphy then turns to 
earlier works by Budé which discuss the relations of scholars and royal patrons: the Latin 
dialogue De philologia (1530) and the French treatise L ‘institution du Prince (1519). Ina 
brief epilogue, Murphy examines a passage in Ugo Foscolo’s Dei sepolcri. 

There is much to admire and much to be learned in this voluble and often valuable 
study. Murphy has read widely in classical and humanistic scholarship, and judiciously 
deploys more recent critical notions in his interpretations. While his discussion of Greek 
and Roman texts holds many insights, the heart of the book is the heroic phase of Italian 
humanism from Petrarch to Poliziano. Compared to these scholar-poets, the learned but 
prosaic Budé seems the odd man out. For all his speculation, Murphy generally writes 
lucidly, avoiding the jargon and convolutions that make theory so difficult to read. True, 
there are occasional lapses, as when Murphy borrows from Foucault in discussing poetic 
inspiration (175): “The long tradition of poetic furor maintains the positive transcendent 
function of word magic inherited from archaic culture, before slipping into the status of 


388 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


mere illusion with the advent of modern madness” (175). But Murphy is no ideologue, 
and among his modern guides only Vico recurs persistently. 

This brief synopsis scarcely does justice to the richness of this volume. Murphy’s 
book is a provocative study, which, by combining close reading with general theory, 
revitalizes a central theme in Western letters. 

David Marsh, Rutgers University 


Patricia E. Grieve. Floire and Blancheflor and the European Romance. Cambridge 
Studies in Medieval Literature, 32. Cambridge: UP, 1997. Pp. 240. 


In this widely researched book, ten years in the making, Patricia Grieve presents a 
scarcely known, unedited version of Cronica de Flores y Blancaflor (BN Madrid MS 
7583). Grieve is to be commended for tackling this forgotten text and its vast context. 
Given the legend’s wide transmission, its surviving witnesses demand a solid philological 
examination. Chapter One discusses proper names, toponyms, genealogical evidence, and 
narremes. Such correspondences are helpful in attempting to establish textual relations; 
however, here they are not rigorously investigated. Ecdotic work is only hinted at by 
relying on disparate secondary authorities. It is never clear how all the surviving 
witnesses and traditions fit together. Only after completing the painstaking philological 
groundwork can one begin to discuss the dependence of one strain or author on another. 
As it stands, the reader is left with an incoherent and unconvincing hodge-podge. 

The study is plagued by too many goals, resulting in its conflicting methodologies 
and lack of focus. It sometimes historicizes a text, elsewhere gestures in the direction of 
gendering, and also takes some tantalizing yet unfulfilled steps toward reception theory. 
The book could best be defined as a comparative study, yet its comparisons tend to be 
tenuous and not exhaustive: between one text and another, or one national tradition and 
another, or sometimes among three or four texts. A less confusing approach would have 
been to simply compare the respective plots, characters, genealogies, motifs, etc., of all 
exemplars point by point. In Part Two, the argument turns thematic, centering on 
concepts of engin and conseil en route to discussing the importance of Divine 
Intervention and the particular (forced) conversion motif in the Cronica. 

Grieve has unwittingly fallen into the chauvinism that ensnared so many nineteenth- 
and early twentieth-century editors and philologists, namely, the insistence upon the 
primacy of one text over another on nationalistic grounds. In fact, much of the evidence 
she arrays to prove the Cronica antedated Filocolo more plausibly suggests that the two 
were close textual relatives belonging to the same later generation or to the third 
(Spanish-Italian) strain that Gaston Paris hypothesized. Grieve also makes the 
unsupported claim that the Spanish prose romance may have “perhaps [reflected] what 
was in the lost part of the Italian Cantare” (74). 

One of Grieve’s agendas was to prove that “much of what has been considered to be 
original material by Boccaccio [in Filocolo] occurs in the Chronicle” (33). This book will 
disappoint Italianists who hope for new insights into Boccaccio’s early works. Grieve is 
frankly perplexed at Boccaccio’s use of pagan gods, understanding very little about his 
classicism (apparently unaware of Teseida or of David Anderson’s Before the Knight's 
Tale) and indicating, without completely grasping, the importance of Rome to Italian 


Italian Bookshelf 389 


authors. She confesses her difficulty with Filocolo: “In the beginning of the story . . . the 
reader wants to transpose the pagan gods to a Christian significance . . . [but] simply 
gives up after a while” (177). In one instance, she attributes a motif of the hero drinking 
tiger’s milk to the presumed Spanish model instead of recognizing an echo of Camilla’s 
infancy in Aeneid, Book I (98). She more than once alludes to the autobiographical 
elements in Filocolo, conveniently waving aside Hollander’s comments on the ironic 
distance between Boccaccio and his narrators (133). She also challenges Smarr’s claim 
that Boccaccio fused the pilgrimage and conversion topoi to a preexisting romance (139). 

Despite her determination to undermine Boccaccio’s originality and complexity by 
proposing his use of a Spanish model, she is more than once forced to concede that 
Filocolo is “a work of no little achievement” (132) with respect to the Floire and 
Blancheflor tradition and to acknowledge “Boccaccio’s considerable achievements . . . in 
his transformation of the legend” (133). The second half of Chapter 5 attempts more 
straightforward Boccaccio criticism (Filocolo on its own terms), but this attempt is 
weakened by a scant knowledge of other Boccaccio works and their critical reception. 
Surprisingly, Grieve does not list a single manuscript or early print edition of Boccaccio’s 
Filocolo nor of the anonymous Cantare di Fiorio e Biancifiore, relying instead on 
outdated critical editions (and translations) to discuss these works and ignoring more 
recent contributions by scholars such as Balduino or De Robertis. 

The book’s one clear contribution to Floire and Blancheflor studies is to announce 
that there is an earlier Spanish version than the prose romance (c. 1530s). It does not, 
however, offer sufficient proof that the newly identified Spanish MS was the original, nor 
does it furnish convincing evidence regarding its date of composition, nor does it supply 
a compelling reason why Boccaccio would have relied on a Spanish version. (In fact, a 
study of late medieval and early Renaissance book inventories would have revealed the 
amazing number of copies of Boccaccio’s works in Spanish libraries.) 

To her credit, Grieve does assemble a wealth of data and an extensive bibliography 
on the various European traditions of this medieval legend. The book will be useful for 
those interested in studying narrative motives such as the “vows of the peacock,” the 
garden, or the shipwreck. Broadly viewed, the study illustrates the intricate web of 
political, cultural, and literary relations between and among countries in the Middle Ages. 
Grieve also rightly points out the fluidity of medieval genres and the way in which 
different redactors shaped a story according to local needs. The book furnishes some 
precious evidence about female readership in the late Middle Ages and signals what 
sounds like a very interesting manuscript anthology to be examined in future cyclification 
studies. 

Gloria Allaire, Purdue University 


David Wallace. Chaucerian Polity: Absolutist Lineages and Associational Forms in 
England and Italy. Stanford: UP, 1997. Pp. xix + 555. 


In this engaging and substantial study, Wallace sets out to explore various Italian and 
English cultural events and their impact upon contemporary literary figures, most 
significantly Chaucer and the great Italian 7Trecento authors. Bringing considerable 
erudition to his analyses of literary works, Wallace situates the literary texts in relation to 


390 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


the interlinked sites of “medieval” London and “Renaissance” Florence, testing the 
validity of such terminology and suggesting that literary critics should instead “suspend 
belief in cultural partitions” (7). Wallace’s core argument is that Chaucer understood the 
works of Dante, Boccaccio, Petrarch, and others within contexts of political conflict and 
ideological warfare, most significantly that of Florence, whose committee rule was an 
associational form, and Lombardy, whose Visconti leadership constituted an absolutist 
lineage. The literary argument that Wallace makes about Chaucer is thus twofold: 
Chaucer can be profitably read in relation to his Italian predecessors, and, in turn, the 
study of Chaucer can provide significant resources and points of departure for the 
exploration of his predecessors in light of the political contexts of England and Italy. 

The first three chapters take up the concern of associational forms (that is, the 
collective bodies through which individuals experienced themselves as political subjects, 
for example, parties, guilds, fraternities, households), situated in relation to Chaucer’s 
Florentine and Lombard visits of 1373 and 1378, respectively. Rejecting the simplistic, 
and widespread, belief that Chaucer’s reaction to Italy was that of a bedazzled tourist, 
Wallace finds instead that Chaucer’s appreciation for Italian culture was that of a 
seasoned diplomat; his visits to Florence and Lombardy exposed him not only to the most 
crucial conflict of the Italian Trecento, between republican /ibertas and dynastic 
despotism, but also to the literary authors exemplifying the cities and their forms of 
polity. Visits to Florence, and then to Milan and Pavia, exposed Chaucer to the writings 
of Boccaccio and Petrarch in conjunction with other forms of cultural production both 
popular and devotional. Chaucer, Wallace argues, encountered the Italian texts within the 
context of this Florentine-Lombard struggle, and hence his own understanding and 
appreciation of the texts themselves were informed by the political situations that helped 
shape them. 

After situating Chaucer within these Italian political contexts, Wallace considers the 
significance of Chaucer’s Italian encounters to his literary enterprise, with particular 
emphasis upon the compagnye of the General Prologue to the Canterbury Tales. 
Beginning with an exposition on the associational forms of compagnye (or felaweshipe), 
Wallace argues that the General Prologue provides the first instance of Chaucer’s 
authorial signature, the “sixth of six” topos — “Ther was also a REVE, and a MILLERE, / 
A SOMNOUR, and a PARDONER also, / A MAUNCIPLE, and myself — ther were 
namo” (1.542-44) — and that this signature is articulated with both artistic confidence and 
personal anxiety about the complex division of labor in English society. Guild culture and 
female slavery in Florence had already shown Chaucer how women, “commodified as 
voiceless figures within a new symbolic order” (19), posed the threat of coming to 
recognize their own symbolic significance, which in turn prompted misogynistic 
complaints from Boccaccio, Wallace finds. Chaucer was thus compelled to assess gender 
in relation to speech and power in his own work, drawing off Boccaccio’s literary 
expressions of gender politics. Wallace asserts that English guilds help account for some 
of the more salient differences between Chaucer’s compagnye and Boccaccio’s brigata, 
in particular their respective attitudes toward collective behavior. For while the two 
framed collections, Canterbury Tales and Decameron, share an apparent commitment to 
the exploration of associational forms, Chaucer favors the more inclusive social 
groupings illustrated in the General Prologue than the young aristocrats and social 
hierarchy of Boccaccio’s Decameron. 


Italian Bookshelf 391 


Several chapters continue with analyses of the Canterbury Tales and its compagnye. 
Since Chaucer includes various subgroups as well as unassimilable individuals, Wallace, 
making clear that it should not be construed as an idealized associational form, explores 
the extent to which associational polity is refigured and foregrounded in specific tales. In 
the Knight’s Tale, Chaucer stages an act of political rupture: the unraveling of 
associational forms under Thesian polity. Characterized by Theseus’s resistance to 
political felaweshipe coupled with the absence of wifely counsel, the Knight’s Tale 
demonstrates how the presence or absence of wifely counsel and women’s eloquence is 
connected to larger issues of power and rule. Chaucer’s cutting of Boccaccio’s Teseida, 
too, emphasizes the significance of Thesian polity, for while Chaucer retained most of the 
business and political issues, he rejected many of the Teseida’s concerns with social and 
sexual relationships. Wallace maintains that gender politics in the Canterbury Tales, a 
recurring concern for both him and Chaucer, can help us explore aspects of statecraft that 
are problematic or contradictory, especially if gender theory is employed as a means of 
approaching medieval people as political subjects. 

Wallace then travels informally along a trajectory that moves from associational to 
absolutist forms. The economic and social powers of the countryside are acknowledged 
in the Miller’s Tale, as John leaves Oxford for Oseney and Nicholas is punished with an 
instrument of the countryside, the “kultour.” The Reeve’s Tale exhibits a more violent 
opposition between city and countryside (resolving its conflicts in the workplace and 
bedroom), which Wallace compares to the Decameron’s “most graphic and egregious 
example of the city screwing the countryside” (134), that of Pietro and Ganni told at the 
end of the Ninth Day. From there Wallace considers the linguistic details of the Friar’s 
and Summoner’s Tales, especially in relation to Dante’s Guido of Inferno 27 and to what 
Wallace characterizes as the deficient language of the religious institutions that they 
expose. An extensive discussion of the London of Chaucer’s Cook frames an analysis of 
drynkyng and its attendant issues of social integration and individual rebellion, including 
the confrontation with the Manciple, whose Tale is critiqued in connection with Dante’s 
and Boccaccio’s source texts. From there Wallace offers a consideration of the 
interconnected activities of merchants and lawyers in relation to the Man of Law and his 
Tale. He notes that Chaucer’s second Canterbury Tales authorial signature is articulated, 
in the Man of Law’s Introduction, so as to associate vernacular authorship with the texts 
and procedures of law, an association Wallace develops in conjunction with the Melibee 
and the Griselda stories of Boccaccio and Chaucer. An exploration of the household 
rhetoric of violence in the Melibee story offers a brilliant and perspicacious look at the 
narrative location of a violent man’s physical presence (compared to the similar situation 
of the Manciple’s Tale). Wallace notes that the Melibee story’s original author, 
Albertano, was a Lombard and that for Chaucer Lombardy represents a “spatial metaphor 
for the tyrannical cast of mind” (213), as exemplified in the Clerk’s Tale, the Merchant’s 
Tale, and the Legend of Good Women. 

The last two formal chapters take up the argument that Boccaccio and Petrarch, 
advancing two distinct political agendas, represent two types of humanism that 
correspond to, respectively, the Monk’s Tale (De casibus) and The Legend of Good 
Women. Here Wallace argues that the Monk’s Tale affirms the Boccaccian paradigm, and 
that the Monk therefore disappoints owing to the repetitive and unstimulating nature of 
his solitary sequence and the personal boredom it reflects, arguably like that of 
Boccaccio’s own state of literary acedia. The Legend follows instead the Italian 


392 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


humanists’ paradigm of classical lives. While inspired by Boccaccio’s De mulieribus 
claris, Chaucer’s Legend significantly includes a woman, Alceste, in the business of 
public life and, as such, prompts comparisons with a Petrarchan model, De laudibus 
feminarum. This short treatise dedicated to the empress Anne of Bohemia, Wallace 
argues, precipitates the rewriting of the F Prologue into the G version, which follows the 
precedent of Petrarchan humanism and rejects the vernacular poetics of Dante and 
Boccaccio. The book’s formal chapters conclude with a reiteration of Wallace’s “sixth of 
six” thesis apropos of the Wife of Bath’s quest for husband number six, which, Wallace 
asserts, is to be satisfied by Chaucer himself — “Welcome the sixte, whan that evere he 
shal” (3.45) — and with the assertion that “Chaucer’s dedication to wifely eloquence is a 
singular historical phenomenon” (377) that Chaucer calls to our attention by way of the 
“sixth of six” topos. 

A brief concluding chapter offers further possibilities about the intriguing 
relationship of Shakespeare’s works to Chaucer’s and his Italian influences, which 
underscore both the magnitude of Wallace’s accomplishment as well as the further work 
to be pursued along the lines that he has so effectively and innovatively opened up. His 
analyses of literary texts in conjunction with cultural and historical concerns are 
exemplary throughout, lucid and persuasive, and substantial notes and documentation — 
over one hundred pages of reference matter — attest to the scope and breadth of learning 
that informs the discussion. Wallace’s work informs, delights and provokes and should 
appeal to scholars, teachers, and students of medieval and early modern English and 
Italian literature and culture. 

Catherine S. Cox, University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown 


Bartolomeo Cerretani. Ricordi. Ed. Giuliana Berti. Firenze: Olschki, 1993. Pp. xiv + 
478. 

Bartolomeo Cerretani. I! dialogo della mutatione di Firenze. Ed. Giuliana Berti. 
Firenze: Olschki, 1994. Pp. vi + 96. 


In her critical editions, Giuliana Berti brings to print two historical works by the 
Florentine Bartolomeo Cerretani (1475-1524) of interest to historians and literary 
scholars alike. Cerretani’s writings in general focus on the manifold social and political 
changes in Florence following the French invasion of Italy in 1494 and up to the author’s 
death in 1524; at the same time, the works reflect the variety of forms that historical 
writing could take in this period, as well as some creative strategies for representing the 
drama and disagreement over contemporary affairs. (Cerretani also penned a third history 
in treatise form, the Storia fiorentina, which has also been edited by Berti but is not under 
review here.) 

Berti’s editions bring to light materials that could previously be found only in 
manuscript. In the case of the Ricordi, Berti and her colleague Ezio Tongiorgi, following 
a trail of bibliographical clues and dead-ends, managed to locate a manuscript that had 
been lost since early this century. The Dialogo was copied from a well-known manuscript 
in the Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale di Firenze. Prior to these editions, Cerretani’s 
histories only appeared in the selections edited by Joseph Schnitzer’s Quellen und 


Italian Bookshelf 393 


Forschungen zur Geschichte Savonarolas, where the Storia fiorentina and Dialogo were 
published in 1904. Berti’s editions will therefore make Cerretani’s works available to a 
much wider audience. And the writings will become useful tools in research on the period 
increasingly known as the “crisis” of the early sixteenth century, the period from the 
death of Lorenzo il Magnifico in 1494 to the demoralization following Rome’s sack in 
1527. 

Cerretani did not live to see the Sack, but he was certainly a witness to the ample 
difficulties facing his hometown after 1494. Not much is known of the author, and the 
extent of his education remains particularly unclear. What little one can learn from his 
writings is best found in his Ricordi. Following the common Renaissance practice of 
keeping a private book (/ibro segreto), Cerretani recorded events of his own life as well 
as other items of interest in a book of memoirs. He began his memoirs in 1500, at the age 
of 26, and the content is quite revealing. The author chose to focus very little on himself, 
sticking instead to a detailed chronicle of contemporary events. His memoirs are deeply 
historical, and surprisingly impersonal, quite unlike other books of ricordi and ricordanze 
produced at the same time. The tone of the daily account varies. Cerretani sometimes 
takes the position of the man in the street, speaking broadly for public opinion. He notes 
the complaints about a lack of political response toward the growing British wool imports 
at Genoa in 1502 (33) or the citizenry’s increasing dissatisfaction in 1503 for Piero 
Soderini’s highly visible wife (84). Nor does the author shy away from gossip and 
innuendoes: he mentions the widespread disapproval of young women’s excessively long 
sleeves which led to sumptuary legislation in March 1502 (36), and he colorfully 
describes the rumors accompanying the election of Giovanni de’ Medici to the pontificate 
in 1513 (301-02). 

At the same time, the Ricordi assumes the tone of an insider, a figure closely tied to 
current events and with access to the closed circles in politics and society. Given that 
Cerretani had served in both the republic and Medicean regimes in the first decades of the 
sixteenth century, we should not be surprised by this access. As an insider, he is able to 
offer numerous details of the location, method, and accomplices of Piero Soderini’s 
escape in 1512 (279-80). And a few pages later, he returns to the same events in far less 
detail, as if to suggest that news of Soderini’s flight was only then leaking out (289). 
Cerretani was also present in Pescia in 1504 to provide safe conduct for Roberto 
d’Alberto, a Pisan defector hoping to influence Florentine policy (102). In short, the 
author moves between the insider’s and outsider’s point of view, revealing himself as a 
humanist, optimate, and bureaucrat, but also as a face in the crowd, dismayed like many 
others by the Sack of Prato, the portents of monstrous births, or the arrogance of the 
Medici regime. 

Just as the author is torn between his insider’s and outsider’s view, he is also 
ambivalent about the political and social changes going on around him. While he has 
praise for the broadly based government of the first republic (270), he is also sharply 
critical of its leading figures, Soderini in particular. In fact, Soderini becomes a sort of 
tragic character in Cerretani’s account, both a bumbler in the early years of his 
gonfalonierate, yet a reputable lover of liberty, whose last words when fleeing his office 
were a request to keep the government open to broad participation (“fa’ largho” 279). 
Cerretani’s views about Savonarola are also ambiguous. He considers himself a supporter 
of the frate, but his support is qualified at times, particularly with regard to the 
Savonarolan movement at large. For instance, his characterization of Giovanbattista 


394 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Ridolfi, a Savonarolan elected Gonfaloniere after the Medicis’ return, emphasizes 
negatively his piagnone ties (“era reputato valente huomo ma era capo della setta del 
frate” 282). A possible clue about the author’s ambivalence can be found in the appendix 
to the memoirs, where Cerretani lists the supporters and enemies of Savonarola by 
neighborhoods in the city. Placing himself and his uncle in a list of supporters, the author 
includes his father as an opponent of the frate. Politics may well have been a sore topic 
among the Cerretani and could thus have contributed to the author’s ambivalence. 
Consequently the Ricordi certainly provides rich material for literary and psychoanalytic 
study. 

For historians, the very depth of detail makes the Ricordi an extremely important 
source on events of this period. It sheds further light on the components of a newly 
fashioned Medici power, the players, disputes, and negotiations involved, as well as 
contemporary attitudes toward the regime. In this respect, they complement a host of 
already published chronicles, including those of Biagio Buonnacorsi, Piero Parenti, 
Bartolomeo Masi, Luca Landucci, and the well-known aphoristic ricordi of Francesco 
Guicciardini in providing a portrait of that age. In contrast with these other memoirs, 
however, Cerretani’s Ricordi and their overwhelming historical focus invite social 
analysis. The near disappearance of the author/narrator suggests the detachment of an 
observer but also, indirectly, the author’s personal identification with events of his day. 
Cerretani may have composed his memoirs in the manner that Marin Sanudo drafted his 
Diarii simply to serve as a notebook for a later work of history. Consequently, his 
infrequent personal references may have been an aid to later recollection. However, the 
appearance of a first-person narrator also suggests that Cerretani wanted to insert himself 
in a history of Florentine affairs. Readers of the Ricordi should therefore consider the 
author’s self-reference as an element in the making of social identity. 

Cerretani’s Dialogo della mutatione di Firenze is certainly a better known historical 
document than his Ricordi, primarily because of Schnitzer’s efforts. The Dialogo is often 
cited as a source on political events in Florence and on perspectives regarding Savonarola 
from 1512 to 1520. Yet its content moves further afield, touching also on trendy 
intellectual issues of the day: Luther, Erasmus and Reuchlin, cabalism and astrology. 
Moreover, its presentation in the form of dialogue is both unique and significant. The 
author turned to dialogue, as he writes in his preface, to find “nuovo modo allo scriverle” 
(4), namely, the events that had occurred since the return of the Medici to Florence in 
1512. Through dialogue, he was able to present a variety of perspectives on the recent 
past, perspectives that include both the Savonarolan and Medicean sides of the story. As a 
work of history, then, Cerretani’s Dialogo blurred the already murky distinctions between 
history and literature in the Renaissance. It is also a sign of one author’s sensitivity to the 
many ways in which the past might be interpreted. 

The text itself is a conversation set within a series of narrative frames. At the outset, 
a character called Bartolomeo, presumably portraying the author, appeals to two fictional 
interlocutors to recount a past conversation. These characters, named Girolamo and 
Lorenzo, immediately bring to mind the famous figures of Savonarola and // Magnifico. 
The association fits primarily for Girolamo, who identifies himself as a Savonarolan and 
even defends the Dominican’s views in later debates. Girolamo and Lorenzo agree to 
replay their discussion for Bartolomeo, and thus a second narrative frame begins. Here 
the fictional speakers happen upon Giovanni, named for Giovanni Rucellai, the Papal 
Nuncio to Francis I, on the road outside Modena. These three enjoy a prolonged 


Italian Bookshelf 395 


discussion before the third narrative frame commences with Girolamo and Lorenzo 
participating in a spirited dinner conversation with Rucellai and Francesco Guicciardini, 
then papal governor at Modena. 

All four men are Florentine. Although some aspects of their conversation touch on 
ultramontane affairs, the bulk of the history under discussion relates to their native city. 
During the roadside meeting, the emphasis is on current events of European scope. 
Girolamo and Lorenzo describe their travels north over the past eight years, following 
their departure from Florence in 1512. Girolamo explains the cabala which he has studied 
in Frankfurt with Reuchlin, and discusses the appearance, demeanor, and to a lesser 
extent the ideas of Erasmus and Luther. Only when the figures have settled at 
Guicciardini’s dinner table does their discussion turn specifically to historical events, and 
the tone is cooperative, tolerant, and consensual. Giovanni Rucellai, who had participated 
in the plot to restore the Medici to Florence in 1512, agrees to narrate events for his 
audience, but he requests the input of all speakers, notably Girolamo, whose Savonarolan 
tendencies are bound to run counter to his own. Girolamo and all the conversants agree to 
pool their differing views of the past. Guicciardini even reassures his guests that their 
views will remain off the record (25). In this manner, the speakers develop a collective 
account of events up to 1520. 

Their dialogue is a unique approach to representing history. The emphasis is social 
‘and collaborative: the speakers seem to expect disagreement, even to welcome it. Since 
they differ fundamentally in their political and social outlooks, some disagreement does 
occur. Nonetheless, the tacit assumption of their talk is that truth can only follow the 
open airing of different perspectives. Consequently, Giovanni and Girolamo disagree 
sharply but cordially about the fulfillment of Savonarola’s prophecies (19-20) and the 
likelihood of reform within the church (15-17). They find also room for agreement. 
Girolamo, for instance, supports Rucellai’s description of the factional differences that 
contributed to the restoration of the Medici, describing the secret coalitions that 
undermined the efforts of the Savonarolan minority (27). Girolamo even praises 
Rucellai’s open-mindedness (20) and pokes innocent fun at his circumstances, since 
Rucellai and his cohort were closed out of the Medicean balia in 1512, that is, the 
government they had worked to restore (40). In general, the genial disagreement 
contributes to a picture of the Savonarolan movement and their relations with other 
optimates in the city. Many Savonarolans were themselves a part of the ruling class, and 
for this reason their commitment to the frate’s political and moral outlook varied 
according to their individual interests. Perhaps one thing they shared in common was 
their disappointment at the fall of the Republic in 1512. We witness this sentiment in 
Girolamo and Lorenzo, who on that year chose to leave Florence rather than submit to the 
Medici regime. Writing the Dialogo in 1521, Cerretani captures the pessimism of a 
Savonarolan movement with little hope of a return to their Grand Council and broad- 
based government. 

Particularly in the Dialogo but also in the Ricordi, Cerretani remains an elusive 
figure. Berti does little to illuminate his past, or to shed light on the common threads of 
arguments between the two texts. Neither edition includes a biographical summary. 
Footnotes are sparse, limited generally to diacritical comments. The task remains for the 
reader to develop an impression of the author and his views, based on Cerretani’s words 
alone. No doubt, this was a deliberate strategy by Berti, who aimed to produce texts 
corresponding as much as possible to the original manuscript versions. For those wanting 


396 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


to know more about Cerretani, there remains the copiously annotated version of the 
Dialogo, edited by Raul Mordenti (1990). Using the same scribal copy of the late 1500s 
that Berti also uses, Mordenti offers an edition peppered with explanatory footnotes and 
accompanied by a thorough introduction and bibliography. Certainly for a first-time 
reader of Cerretani, Mordenti’s work provides a fuller background, and students and 
researchers will find his explanations, for instance of obscure cabalistic references, a 
gentler introduction. However, researchers should not neglect Berti’s version, certainly 
for the textual fidelity to the manuscripts. In her versions of the Dialogo, for instance, she 
maintains the same paragraph breaks used in the manuscript, whereas Mordenti has 
inserted chapter breaks and even chapter titles of his own invention. Sadly, Berti’s edition 
of the Dialogo contains some errors. In a quick comparison between the manuscript and 
the published edition, this reviewer has found at least two lines that the editor had 
skipped; no such comparison was made for the Ricordi. Nevertheless, Berti has produced 
useful editions of valuable historical sources, preserving both the form and spirit of the 
manuscripts in the process. 

Ross Brooke Ettle, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


Laura Cereta. Collected Letters of a Renaissance Feminist. Ed. and trans. Diana 
Robin. The Other Voice in Early Modern Europe. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1997. 
Pp. 216. 


This book is part of a valuable series, edited by Margaret L. King and Albert Rabil, Jr., 
which presents the work of Renaissance proto-feminists in English translation. The 
volume includes an admirable general introduction, which concisely summarizes the 
ancient and medieval philosophical, legal, theological, and literary influences that helped 
create a misogynist view of woman, as well as humanists’ attempts to dismantle it. 

The editor and translator of the present volume has distilled a biography of Cereta 
from evidence found in these letters. The “Translator’s Introduction” also contains an 
overview of female education in late fifteenth-century Brescia, a survey of women 
humanists’ activities in Italy, and an enumeration of themes found in Cereta’s literary 
production. The lively prose translation will appeal to specialists and non-specialists 
alike. 

Diana Robin has nicely identified classical and contemporary humanist sources, 
motifs, and even lexicon that Cereta used. Although Robin does a fine job identifying 
which themes were standard humanist tropes and which were Cereta’s own, one wishes 
that her commentary would have probed more deeply into Cereta’s thematics. While 
noting Cereta’s debts to Petrarch and to Boccaccio, Robin does not account for the 
echoes of vernacular works by Dante or, especially, by Leon Battista Alberti. Many of 
the parallels to The Family could be considered conventional humanist topoi, but their 
frequency, language, and co-presence with letters addressed to Alberti family members 
should not pass by unremarked. 

Apart from sketchy comments in the footnotes, the “edition” lacks a critical 
apparatus. There are no descriptions of the two extant manuscripts, whose readings differ, 
and no discussion of how the manuscripts and the Tomasini edition (Padua, 1640) are 
related. Robin should have identified a base text and included a summary discussion of 


Italian Bookshelf 397 


the textual relationships among the witnesses. Some sentences found only in Vat. lat. 
3176, “the most complete text,” were inexplicably omitted (3n, 84n). Could Marc. lat. 
4186 be an earlier version or does it contain author’s variants? Is either manuscript an 
autograph or were these copied later by Cereta’s readers? Cereta herself refers to “the 
final draft . . . now being copied out” (34), so she obviously supervised the selection and 
ordering of her epistles. What do we know about the manuscripts’ ownership and 
provenance? This could furnish insights into the readership and transmission of Cereta’s 
letters. 

The diligent reader is also perplexed by the inconsistent choices of titles for the 
letters. Footnotes explain that Robin has retitled certain letters and that the Vatican 
manuscript had an index with titles. Were these written by a contemporary book owner, 
by a modern librarian cataloguing the codex, or were they assigned by Cereta herself? 
Since titles are an important clue to any text’s interpretation, it is crucial to clarify this 
issue. 

Robin’s reordering of Cereta’s production does not respect the manuscript evidence. 
Why do two dedicatory epistles and an epilogue appear in this edition as items 4, 6, and 
5, respectively? Dates at the ends of letters reveal their chronology, and footnotes 
somewhat inconsistently give the order of the individual letters in each exemplar. 
However, the original arrangement of the contents is not easily discernible. In Cereta’s 
own words, the mock funeral oration on the death of a donkey was “the first thing I 
wrote” (39). This rhetorical exercise which seems banal and innocuous to the modern 
reader provoked a flurry of hostile response among Cereta’s literary contemporaries; 
when viewed in its chronological perspective, one can better understand Cereta’s 
ubiquitous comments about her male (and female) detractors. Yet the “Dialogue on the 
Death of an Ass” is now found at the end of the volume, almost as an afterthought. Robin 
should at least offer a statement justifying her rationale for her reordering and should 
clearly show in parentheses the original order. Since certain noteworthy themes and 
motifs run throughout Cereta’s work, it would be more valuable for the work of 
interpretation and analysis to preserve the ordering of the apparently authoritative 
Vatican manuscript. 

I do not wish these criticisms to detract from the inherent worth of this translation. 
Cereta employed many predictable humanist tropes and relied on well-known classical 
sources as her male counterparts did, but in numerous passages a startlingly original 
female voice emerges. Space does not permit a complete discussion of the metaphors and 
passages particular to Cereta, but these include: a homology of embroidery and writing; 
vividly detailed descriptions of nature, birds, and animals; friendship as a plant which 
must be cultivated; passages of sincere piety; and eye-witness “war memoirs” which are 
more poignant than the drier pacificism of male humanists. There are remarkable 
glimpses into Renaissance domesticity, such as a birthing scene within the circle of 
women attending the mother. In several letters, the young widow laments the death of her 
husband and even hints at the resulting economic and erotic deprivations this loss 
represented to a woman of her era. 

Classical antiquity and mythology are present, but Cereta suppresses elements of 
rape or incest to put a positive spin on her ancient female characters. In an innovative 
description of a Hades-like underworld, Cereta adopts the role of a female Orpheus 
seeking her dead spouse. Recurrent, classically inspired images of Furies, madwomen, 
and female monstrosities suggest the suppressed rage Cereta felt as a woman whose 


398 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


considerable intellectual powers were too tightly contained by her society. Elsewhere, she 
fends off polemical attacks on her work, comparing herself to a lion, a tigress, and a she- 
wolf. 

Despite its philological infelicities, this fascinating book should be required reading 
for women’s studies courses or for anyone who feels the need for a broader, historical 
comprehension of the origins of modern European feminism. 

Gloria Allaire, Purdue University 


Charles Stanley Ross. The Custom of the Castle: From Malory to Macbeth. Berkeley: 
U of California P, 1997. Pp. xvii + 205. 


This book traces the development of the episode in which a traveling knight, sometimes 
accompanied by his lady, arrives at a castle and is asked to abide by a strange, often 
unjust custom. Although this episode was widely imitated in European romance for over 
four centuries, Ross’s is the first critical study to go beyond its literary aspects to ask how 
it might tell the reader something about “the challenging legal and cultural conceptions of 
custom in France, Italy, and England,” along with the broad array of moral issues that this 
entails (xiii). In particular, Ross sets out to demonstrate how these “nuanced narratives 
explore the social limits of order, violence, justice, civility, and political conformity” 
(xiii). He begins with “The French Model,” analyzing Malory’s Weeping Castle episode 
with respect to its source in the thirteenth-century prose Tristan. He then follows the 
course of the romance to Italy (“The Italian Transition”) where he explores the politics of 
power in Boiardo’s Orlando Innamorato and its continuation by Ariosto, the Orlando 
Furioso. In “The English Conclusion,” he focuses on Spenser’s Faerie Queene and 
Shakespeare’s Hamlet and Macbeth. In moving from medieval to Renaissance, and from 
French to Italian to English, Ross aims to show how the episodes reflect changes in the 
function of custom and the authority of the past, related in part to two factors: “first, the 
transmutation of oral law into written law, and second, the transition from a French 
culture of customs to one which followed Roman or civil law and then on to England, a 
common law country” (10). Combining a perceptive reading of romance with an 
extensive background in natural and customary law, Ross asks new questions about old 
texts, and he thereby enriches our own reading of romance. While the early chapters 
leave some questions unanswered, the analysis is original, thought-provoking, and 
stimulating throughout. 

Ross’s first “test case” is Malory’s episode of the Weeping Castle, a creative 
imitation of the Castle of Tears (Chastel de Plors) episode from the anonymous prose 
Tristan (18). Ross selects Malory’s Morte Darthur as representative of the French model 
because it “follows the French tradition by looking to the past to explain social change” 
(16). Ross sees the Weeping Castle episode as “an allegory of social pressure” in which 
the victorious Tristan, rather than eliminating an evil custom of judicial murder, conforms 
to the custom by beheading the defeated lord and lady of the castle. A way out is found 
only when Galahaut returns (from self-imposed exile in protest of the custom) to 
challenge Tristan and avenge the murder of his parents. Ross notes that whereas in the 
anonymous text Tristan’s courtesy in battle prompts Galahaut to respond in kind, Malory 
alters Tristan’s motivation by having him yield to Galahaut due to the imminent arrival of 


Italian Bookshelf 399 


his opponent’s reinforcements. While Ross remarks that “Malory seems to have missed 
the point” (30) of the earlier text, he leaves the reader curious to hear more about the 
point Malory may have been trying to make. Why does Malory then turn the Tristan’s 
reciprocal acts of courtesy into a “social bargain” (32)? And how can Tristan’s inability 
to abolish the evil custom be reconciled with Ross’s statement that for Malory “Tristan 
represents an ideal which those who pretend to be gentlemen should strive to imitate” 
(34)? At the same time, by focusing attention on the serious issues at stake in this 
fictional form, Ross entices the reader to go back and reread these medieval narratives in 
a more probing way. 

The underlying premise of the next section is that “the Italians developed a notion of 
civility to counteract a rigid social system increasingly dominated by foreigners during 
the sixteenth century” (16). He examines a “custom of the castle” episode in Boiardo and 
Ariosto, the two masters of romance epic in the Italian Renaissance. Playing Cicero’s 
philosophy against Clifford Geertz’s anthropology, he considers how natural law and the 
moral imagination inform the Orlando Innamorato’s Castle Cruel episode, where the 
knight Ranaldo confronts a culture in which escalating acts of violence have led to the 
systematic murder of foreign visitors. Here, too, his analysis engenders additional 
questions. If Boiardo portrays Ranaldo negatively as getting caught up in the cycle of 
violence, does he also indicate how the knight should have reacted when attacked by the 
mob? More generally, what is Boiardo saying about appropriate responses to foul 
customs? 

In refreshing contrast to those who have read the Orlando Furioso’s Tower of 
Tristan episode as a fable of gender, Ross sees the episode as a fable of power, or more 
specifically, of the limits of an individual’s power to modify the dictates of an absolutist 
society. In this light, Bradamante’s merely tactical victory is analogous to the situation of 
those subject to political and foreign institutions in sixteenth-century Italy. Although 
Bradamante is powerless to overturn a foul custom, she can be granted an exception 
through witty reasoning backed by martial prowess. It would have been useful to 
compare this to the episodes of Pinabello’s castle at Altaripa and the island of the 
homicidal women from the 1516 edition of the Furioso, especially since in these 
episodes, which replay elements from Boiardo’s Castle Cruel, a foul custom is not just 
temporarily sidestepped but completely eradicated. 

The evolution of social ideology reflected in the episode’s variants comes into 
clearest focus in “The English Conclusion.” Ross views the custom of the castle episode 
in The Faerie Queene as an opportunity for Spenser to oppose two different systems of 
values, substituting the conflict of right and wrong with a sense of the relativity of all 
customs. Following in the wake of Stephen Greenblatt, Ross links his textual analysis to 
the political circumstances of England and Ireland as well as to Spenser’s own 
involvement in the affairs of his day. What this means for the “custom of the castle” 
episode in Spenser is that the knight facing a “foul custom” is less a hero acting in the 
interest of justice than he is a colonist trying — albeit not always successfully — to impose 
his own social ideology on his “host,” a manifestation of the alien Other. Whereas in the 
first two chapters Ross tended to isolate single episodes, here he sustains his argument by 
comparing variations on the “custom of the castle” theme that stretch across The Faerie 
Queene. Further, he identifies an evolution within the poem itself. Whereas in the first 
half (1590) Spenser “generally looks to the distant past for those values that would 
fashion a gentleman to the ideals of chivalry,” in the second installment (1596) he “seems 


400 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


to have struggled more openly with the relationship between social practice and values” 
(83). 

Ross not only applies his background in law theory to romance narratives, but he 
applies his knowledge of romance patterns to later enterprises, such as the Spaniards’ 
expeditions in the New World (139-40) and, more extensively, Shakespeare’s drama. 
Ross provides fresh and provocative readings of Hamlet and Macbeth, with additional 
insights into As You Like It, Twelfth Night, and the history plays, as well as an appendix 
on King Lear and Othello. 

Ross cuts across temporal, spatial, and linguistic boundaries and brings philosophy, 
anthropology, socio-political history, and ethics to bear in his interpretation of chivalric 
fiction. Readers may find that the book leaves out their favorite “custom of the castle” 
episode which may or may not conform to the evolution that Ross traces. But this is 
really not the point. Ross’s book sensitizes the reader to the social aspects of the “custom 
of the castle” episode in such a way that it would be hard to read romance again without 
asking the same kinds of questions that Ross has raised in this ground-breaking study. 


Jo Ann Cavallo, Columbia University 


Dennis Looney. Compromising the Classics: Romance Epic Narrative in the Italian 
Renaissance. Detroit: Wayne State UP, 1996, Pp. 244. 


Did Boiardo, Ariosto, and Tasso consciously attempt to camouflage the classical sources 
of their epic poems? Is the Orlando furioso really a harmonious montage of classical and 
medieval sources as critics have traditionally contended or is its success a result of a 
disharmony of these elements? And has the classical foundation of Boiardo’s epic poem 
been largely ignored to date? These are only a few of the challenging questions Dennis 
Looney addresses in his provocative study, Compromising the Classics: Romance Epic 
Narrative in the Italian Renaissance. In discussing these poets, Looney considers how 
“narrative artists in the Renaissance renovated the popular genre of romance through their 
imitation of classic epic” (15). Carefully analyzing the epic poems of Boiardo, Tasso, 
and, above all, Ariosto, Looney notes a traditional bias on the part of readers with respect 
to these poets’ use of literary sources. He describes this bias as a “rigid dichotomizing of 
the poets’ sources into two groups”: classical sources, associated with verbal and stylistic 
allusions, and medieval sources recalling themes and images. In response to these static 
categorizations, the study suggests how these three Ferrarese poets “compromised” 
classical models “by incorporating them into the narrative structures of their vernacular 
poems” (15). In doing so, the poets overcame, to some extent, the distinction between 
classical and medieval models in the construction of their narrative. 

To the author, “compromising the classics” means many things: the mixing of 
classical sources with medieval ones, the highlighting of a particular source above all 
others, the incorporation of allusions into the text which encourage the reader to revisit 
and reread the poet’s classical or medieval authorities with a suspicious eye, and perhaps 
gain a new understanding of the original work. While some readers may find these 
diverse connotations confusing at times, Looney provides numerous examples to 
illustrate his meaning. In Ariosto’s case, for example, the critic notes how Medoro’s 


Italian Bookshelf 401 


eclogue reflects several literary and linguistic traditions, mixing (or “compromising”) 
Petrarchan and Vergilian pastoral references with allusions to Plautus’s and Terence’s 
comedies, momentarily highlighting now one and now the other of these seemingly 
incompatible sources. The result is what Looney terms “the ambiguous generic status of 
the Furioso” (25). 

Looney opposes Giulio Bertoni’s well-known view that Ariosto’s epic is the 
“perfect fusion of romance and classical elements,” suggesting instead that these 
elements are intended to conflict, to be “deliberately confusing.” However, he argues that 
the final result of this contraposition of classical and medieval sources is “fruitful,” for it 
invites the reader to consider not only the works themselves, but also “the generic 
boundaries between them and the generic possibilities they encompass” (30). Thus the 
critic prefers the term “romance-epic” over the more traditional “epic poem” to highlight 
the dual nature of these poetic works. “Romance” poetry implies those works that stray 
from the standards of narrative design established by the Aeneid; “epic” conversely 
represents conformation to these standards and a rejection of innovative narrative 
structures. 

The first chapter provides a lively and engaging overview of the way in which 
Ariosto’s use of classical sources has traditionally been seen by critics. Looney carefully 
posits his critical discussion within the historical context of the works being analyzed: 
from the well-known debate on imitation between Angelo Poliziano and Paolo Cortese in 
1480 to Girolamo Vida’s pro-epic/anti-romance stance on narrative design to Bernardo 
Tasso’s defense of Ariosto’s “rhapsodic” narrative technique. In the second chapter on 
Boiardo’s Orlando Innamorato, Looney argues that readers have traditionally 
undervalued the poet’s familiarity with classical narrative and suggests that the poem 
indeed owes much to classical sources, particularly to the narrative techniques of 
Herodotus and Vergil. He also convincingly illustrates how Boiardo “romanticized” 
Herodotus’s historical narrative in order to appeal to his Ferrarese audience. In doing so, 
the poet utilized many of the same narrative devices that appear in the Jnnamorato. 

The following chapter considers Ariosto’s “creative opportunism,” that is, his 
compositional process of selectively borrowing from the Orlando tradition as needed to 
fulfill his narrative goals. Many of the sources which worked best for the Furioso are 
those that “straddle the realms of the classical epic and romance” (93). The use of Ovid in 
particular allowed Ariosto simultaneously to allude to other narrative paradigms in his 
romance-epic and intentionally defy the neat generic categories of epic and romance. The 
study next considers Ariosto’s “poetics of compromise” through the critical eyes of a 
famous sixteenth-century reader, Torquato Tasso. Tasso’s stance vis-a-vis his great 
predecessor in epic poetry is somewhat ambivalent: admiring and detesting at once the 
allusive unity of Ariosto’s multistoried narrative structure. Through a detailed analysis of 
Ariosto’s poetic imagery and sources, his “intratextual and intertextual network,” the 
critic concludes that the similes Tasso cites in his Discorsi as contributing to the disunity 
of the Furioso are in fact the very same ones that recur in different manifestations, 
unifying the poem. A discussion of Tasso’s “allegory of imitative poetics” occupies the 
final chapter. Tasso is, in Looney’s view, the “ultimate compromiser,” consistently 
“blending sources” in his epic poem, be they biblical, classical or vernacular. What 
results are tensions of subject matter and poetic form resolved only by the poet’s use of 
allegory. Such is the case in canto 13 of the Liberata, where Tasso’s “allegory of the 
source” moves from romance to classical to Christian models. 


402 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Looney’s study is indeed a significant contribution to understanding the poetics of 
Italian Renaissance epic narrative, for it explores the complex tapestry of classical and 
medieval sources upon which these texts are constructed. Compromising the Classics 
expands and problematizes the traditional interpretation of literary references in romance- 
epic poetry, particularly with respect to the Orlando Furioso. This work should be of 
great interest to anyone studying Renaissance poetics in general and/or the epic works of 
Boiardo, Ariosto and Tasso in particular. 

Michael J. Hemment, Harvard University 


Alberto Casadei. La fine degli incanti. Vicende del poema epico-cavalleresco nel 
Rinascimento. Milano: Francoangeli, 1997. Pp. 190. 


L’ opera del Casadei si presenta come una raccolta di saggi in parte gia pubblicati in varie 
riviste accademiche e in parte inediti. I] libro comprende una prima sezione in cui Si 
prendono in esame cronologicamente testi come |’/nnamorato di Boiardo, il Rinaldo del 
Tasso, il Furioso dell’Ariosto, la Gerusalemme Liberata, e infine |’Adone del Marino. 
Nella seconda parte, tre saggi trattano di opere minori ariostesche: le ottave “Per la storia 
d'Italia”, le Rime e i Cinque Canti. L’opera é completata da una introduzione e due 
appendici. 

L’approccio critico del Casadei, che ha gia scritto due libri sull’Ariosto, é quello di 
mantenere una costante attenzione ai problemi filologici e a quelli inerenti alla storia 
della cultura. Il volume dello studioso presenta il problema di tutti gli autori che 
riuniscono in un’opera singola saggi in parte pubblicati e in parte inediti: lo scopo di tale 
operazione non é mai esclusivamente per |’ambizione di mettere in luce ancora una volta 
articoli sfuggiti all’attenzione dei lettori. Piuttosto, il fine precipuo é quello di 
convogliare in un discorso lineare, tutte le riflessioni, le ricerche, le opinioni critiche 
dell’autore disseminate in scritti brevi nel corso degli anni. Casadei dice infatti 
nell’introduzione: “Il problema . . . € come ricomporre le parti sparse di queste 
numerosissime e spesso importanti analisi in una sintesi che non sia solo sommatoria. . . . 
l’unico modo é quello di cercare alcuni punti critici che consentono di cogliere i passaggi 
e gli snodi nell’evoluzione di un fenomeno letterario” (10). I punti critici, nei primi due 
studi del volume di Casadei (“Riusi del modello dell’ /nnamorato tra il 1520 e il 1530”, 
“Tl Rinaldo e il genere cavalleresco alla meta del Cinquecento”) riguardano infatti il 
territorio storico e culturale in cui il poema cavalleresco e quello eroico nascono e 
proliferano in seno alla corte ed al mercato librario. Profonde diversita sono emerse tra la 
fine del Quattrocento (Pulci e soprattutto Boiardo) e la fine del Cinquecento, quando 
giunge a maturazione il poema eroico, cioé l’epica moderna della Liberata: un secolo 
esatto, che vede il definitivo passaggio dalle municipalita agli Stati assoluti, e dalla corte 
alla Corte. 

Nel dibattito critico-teorico degli ultimi due decenni due categorie generali hanno 
permesso di accostarci ai poemi cavallereschi rinascimentali: la riscrittura e 
l’intertestualita, sostiene il Casadei, per cui il problema fondamentale nell’esame dei testi 
é quello di concretizzare la dialettica di epos e romanzo, che il Furioso propone 
autorevolmente a tutti i suoi successori, per la costituzione di un poema che si voglia 
collocare nel genere cavalleresco. Le scansioni cronologiche che appaiono fondamentali 


Italian Bookshelf 403 


nell’economia di questo discorso sono quelle segnate dall’uscita del terzo Furioso (1532), 
dalla pubblicazione del Girone dell’Alamanni e dal completamento dell’/talia Liberata 
del Trissino (1548), dall’edizione del Rinaldo (1562). Sono queste le tappe che seguono 
la fortuna editoriale del poema ariostesco, indicando il momento dopo il quale (1548) 
molte continuazioni del Furioso andranno incontro ad un declino giustificabile tenendo 
conto dell’evoluzione della letteratura italiana nell’eta del Concilio di Trento. 

Gli ultimi due saggi della prima parte di questo volume (“I poeti, i cavalieri, le 
macchine, gli spazi: scienza e tecnica in Ariosto e Tasso”, “II telescopio, ‘ammirabile 
stromento’: variazioni su Adone”) prendono in esame i testi dei poemi cavallereschi nel 
loro rapporto con la scienza e la tecnica rinascimentali. La rappresentazione del “nuovo” 
portera alla non sopravvivenza dell’epica in ottave. L’ultima grande opera del filone, cioé 
|’Adone, rendera metaforica la scienza di Galileo (il Canocchiale aristotelico). L’epica in 
ottave si esaurisce, sia per l’interruzione del rapporto nutriente con la corte (dopo il 
Tasso), sia per la diversita del modo di rappresentare e interpretare la realta che la scienza 
moderna imponeva rispetto ai parametri letterari canonici. Il vero corrispondente 
letterario della rivoluzione scientifica é ovviamente il Don Chisciotte, in cui non si trova 
pit un’enciclopedia del meraviglioso generato dalla nuova scienza (Adone), ma un 
catalogo di oggetti, scientificamente definibili, contro le credenze pazzesche di un povero 
cavaliere-letterato. 

Nel primo saggio della seconda parte, “Le ottave di Ariosto ‘Per la storia d’Italia’”, 
viene presentato il problema dell’edizione delle 84 “Stanze per la Storia d'Italia” 
dell’Ariosto. Di esse, legate ai canti 32 e 33 dell’ultimo Furioso, il Casadei propone il 
testo critico e commento nella sua Appendice 2. 

Nel secondo saggio, “Sulle prime edizioni a stampa delle Rime ariostesche”, il 
Casadei giunge alla conclusione che la seconda edizione delle Rime, uscita a Venezia nel 
1547 a istanza di Jacopo Coppa Modenese, é complessivamente simile al tipo I 85 
dell’ Orlando Innamorato pubblicato dallo Scotto nel 1545 (123). 

Per il terzo saggio, “Il privilegio dei Cinque Canti”, il Casadei discute il problema 
per cui al posto di Paolo Manuzio, che aveva ottenuto dal Consiglio dei Dieci di Venezia 
il privilegio di pubblicare l’opera ariostesca, subentrarono gli stampatori Jacopo Coppa e 
Gabriele Giolito. 

Dell’Appendice 1, lo studio pit interessante riguarda la complessa questione delle 
interpretazioni relative al motto finale del Furioso: “Il ‘Pro bono malum’ ariostesco e la 
Bibbia”. Per Casadei la fonte del motto é la Bibbia (Vulgata, Genesi, 44.4, Geremia, 
18.20 e tre luoghi dei Salmi), per cui il senso della frase ariostesca si lega strettamente al 
tema dell’ingratitudine umana, quella dell’uomo che scaccia le api per ottenere il miele 
della celebre xilografia. Ma il legame pit cogente risulta quello della malvagita dei 
detrattori, dei cortigiani nemici che hanno reso “male per bene” al poeta-giusto. 

Il volume di Alberto Casadei é scorrevole, sintetico e attuale: in esso vengono 
affrontati alcuni problemi nell’ambito delle ricerche sulla tradizione epico-cavalleresca, 
compresi quelli inerenti all’emendamento di testi di poemi rimaneggiati in tipografia. 


Mauda Bregoli-Russo, University of Illinois at Chicago 


404 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Tullia d’Aragona. Dialogue on the Infinity of Love. Trans. and introd. Rinaldina 
Russell and Bruce Merry. Chicago: Chicago UP, 1991. Pp. 114. 


Russell and Merry’s elegant translation in English of d’Aragona’s dialogue is the latest 
appearance of this work, which has known the uneven success generally ascribed to 
women’s writings in Italy. The publishing history of d’Aragona’s dialogue is a good 
example of such fluctuation: after two editions published within a few years in the 
sixteenth century, a third edition of the dialogue appeared in 1694 and a fourth in 1864, 
with a reprint in 1974. In 1912 Giuseppe Zonta published a critical edition of the text, 
which was reprinted and edited by Mario Pozzi in 1975 and 1980. The unprecedented 
production and popularity of women’s literature during the sixteenth century were 
undoubtedly due to the “larghissima apertura linguistica di quegli ann,i” according to 
Carlo Dionisotti (Geografia e storia della letteratura italiana, Torino: Einaudi, 1967, 
192) as well as to favorable social and religious factors. These positive elements, 
however, changed dramatically after the Council of Trent, negatively affecting women’s 
role in society and their literary production for centuries. 

Throughout this time, Tullia d’Aragona’s voice was barely audible, but now, thanks 
to Margaret King and Albert Rabil, Jr., editors of the Series The Other Voice in Early 
Modern Europe, and to Rinaldina Russell and Bruce Merry, d’Aragona’s mocking and 
witty voice can be heard by the English public. The introduction to each volume of the 
series provides a condensed but helpful summary of “history,” recounting events which 
span from 500 BCE to the seventeenth century from a woman’s perspective. 

Russell begins her introduction by remarking on the uniqueness and originality of 
this dialogue. The “right” to philosophize, or “the power of defining and naming,” 
belonged unquestionably to men, Gerda Lerner affirms in The Creation of Feminist 
Consciousness (Oxford: Oxford UP, 1993, 5). The “dialogic” genre, although lacking a 
theory of its own, was not associated with women writers, who were encouraged to prove 
their literary talent in devotional and love poetry. In fact I know of only one other woman 
who wrote a dialogue in Italy in the Early Modern Period. This is Moderata Fonte who 
discusses, among other subjects, the different kinds of human “love” in // merito delle 
donne, written between 1592-5 and published in 1600. (The translation of Fonte’s 
dialogue, The Worth of Women, by Virginia Cox is available in this same series.) In 
Fonte’s “domestica conversatione,” men are physically absent, although the seven 
Venetian noblewomen make them the main subject of their discussion. Russell points out 
that d’Aragona’s concept of love, while heavily influenced by Platonic ideology, differs 
from the prevalent contemporary opinion. In fact she grounds the male-female bond on 
natural drives and mutual pleasure of body and soul, and perceives no separation between 
sensual and spiritual love. By eliminating the hierarchical structure of the Platonic ethics 
of love, d’Aragona places women’s spiritual enhancement on the same level as men’s and 
makes women active agents of love. 

Russell’s detailed biography of d’Aragona provides the necessary pre-text or 
“situational context” that allows a better understanding and appreciation of a woman 
writer’s literary production. (Ann Rosalind Jones, “Surprising Fame: Renaissance 
Ideologies and Women’s Lyric” in The Poetics of Gender, ed. Nancy K. Miller, New 
York: Coiumbia UP, 1986, 80). Knowledge of the pre-text seems particularly important 
for a writer like d’Aragona who, throughout her life, made concerted efforts to convince 


Italian Bookshelf 405 


the public that she was first of all a /iterata and second a cortegiana who, though onesta, 
was still the target of denunciations and insults and was considered a pariah by the 
members of the beau monde. 

From Russell’s account of her life, d’Aragona’s stay in Venice was particularly 
significant for the genesis of the Dialogue on the Infinity of Love, since her Venetian 
home became the setting for Sperone Speroni’s Dialogue on Love, and she herself 
became the inspiration for one of its fictional characters. During her stay in Ferrara in 
1537 (and not in 1437 as mistakenly written in the text), d’Aragona met Girolamo Muzio, 
who, beside her lover, was to become a long-standing and faithful friend and future editor 
of her dialogue. An episode in their relationship related by Russell testifies to 
d’Aragona’s deliberate efforts to “construct” her own public image. With reference to the 
poems which Muzio, a renown writer himself, wrote in her praise, d’Aragona allegedly 
asked him to celebrate her under the name of the muse of idyllic verse rather than use a 
more prosaic name. The meeting with Varchi around 1546 is another event in 
d’Aragona’s life which had an impact on the construction of her public image as well as 
on her dialogue. There is proof of correspondence and a literary exchange between them 
as well as of Varchi’s help in defending her reputation. 

The attainment of a dignified respectability became a question of survival for 
d’Aragona as the climate of tolerance for cortigiane, oneste or otherwise, dissolved 
rapidly after the Council of Trent. The Catholic Church, in fact, reacted with forceful 
moral and religious conservatism to the Protestant Reformation. Russell recalls that being 
recognized officially as “poet” by the Duke Cosimo de’ Medici granted d’Aragona the 
exemption from wearing in public the yellow veil as required of courtesans. Allegedly the 
Duke in person wrote such exoneration after d’Aragona sent a petition to the Duchess 
Eleonora. 

In the section entitled “Antecedents” to d’Aragona’s dialogue, Russell briefly 
describes the ideology of love found in Plato, Aristotle, and in the main Italian writers of 
dialogues and treatises of the first half of the century. It is noteworthy that, although 
women did not write dialogues, within male-authored dialogues, “female interlocutors 
guaranteed by their sex the right to be decorously ignorant . . . (acting) as stand-ins for an 
unschooled audience” (Virginia Cox, The Renaissance Dialogue, Cambridge: UP, 1992, 
45). In d’Aragona’s case, besides authoring the dialogue herself, Tullia makes the main 
female character direct and conclude the argument of the dialogue. Furthermore, as 
Russell explains in her “Analysis of the Dialogue,” d’Aragona questions both the rigid 
Aristotelian ideology and the contradictory Platonic system and brings into the discussion 
important gender issues. She uncovers society’s prevalent prejudices against women 
through the rebuke of the character Varchi’s views and strongly defends women’s 
reputation. She upholds the equality of the sexes in both intellectual and amorous 
pursuits, and echoing Christine de Pizan’s famous statement, declares that public opinion 
would be different if books were written by women. 

Russell clearly defines the nature of d’Aragona’s dialogue, which appears to present 
different points of view but in reality is closer to the dogmatic, univocal dialogue that 
Burke defines as “catechism” in his article, “The Renaissance Dialogue” (Renaissance 
Studies 3.1 [1989]: 1-12). By the end of the discussion, in fact, readers have no choice but 
to accept the one conception of love shaped by the character Tullia throughout the 
dialogue. As Russell points out, the tension present in the dialogue does not reside in the 
dichotomy of opinions but in the difference of “temperament, mental idiosyncrasies and 


406 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


style of speech” (40) of the two main characters. Russell further explains the nature of 
these differences while reaffirming that d’Aragona was “aware of her work as a literary 
construct” (41). Russell’s critical commentary ends with a complete list for further 
reading suggestions on the subject. 

In conclusion, Russell and Merry’s translation and introductory comments have 
made this work accessible to a wide public of scholars and general readers, who could 
use it in a course on Italian Renaissance literature and culture, as well as in any course 
dealing with women’s or gender issues. 

Paola Malpezzi Price, Colorado State University 


Tomaso Garzoni. La piazza universale di tutte le professioni del mondo. A c. di Paolo 
Cherchi & Beatrice Collina. “I millenni”. 2 voll. Torino: Einaudi. Pp. CXXXIII + 
1715. 


La piazza universale di tutte le professioni del mondo di Tomaso Garzoni fu pubblicata 
per la prima volta nel 1585 e fu ristampata una trentina di volte prima del 1670; fu 
tradotta in tedesco, in latino e adattata in spagnolo. L’opera, pur spogliata costantemente 
da lessicografi e utilizzata da etnologi e studiosi del costume e delle professioni, non 
aveva mai avuto un’edizione moderna fino al 1996 (non conta |l’anastatica del 1989 
dell’ed. 1589). Considerandone il valore non solo linguistico ma anche letterario (a 
pagine nomenclatorie si alternano pagine briosissime alcune dedicate a soggetti di cui 
Oggi poco sappiamo, dai bravi ai mugnai, dai pedanti ai fornai e agli albergatori), ci si 
chiede perché questo lungo silenzio; ma basta sfogliarla per capire facilmente quali 
enormi difficolta editoriali bisognava sfidare per pubblicare un’opera cosi vasta, cosi 
erudita e cosi complessa sotto tanti punti di vista. Per fortuna ha trovato curatori capaci di 
vivere all’altezza di tale sfida, dando alla luce un’edizione monumentale. 

La Piazza offre una descrizione storico-tecnica di oltre 500 professioni, quindi é 
gremita di dati storici riguardanti l’invenzione di ciascuna di esse, i suoi rappresentanti 
piu illustri, descrivendone i vizi e virtt — il che da luogo a un’aneddotica foltissima — e 
con un ricchissimo corredo di auctoritates per lo pil classiche, ma é€ anche 
abbondantissima di dati tecnici con filatesse, a volte interminabili, di termini riguardanti 
strumenti e operazioni proprie di ogni professione e di ogni professionista. II fatto pit 
sorprendente é che la Piazza sia un grande mosaico di testi plagiati, e di testi per lo piu 
eruditi per cui il registro “erudito” domina tutta l’opera. Ugualmente sorprendente é la 
ricostruzione che Paolo Cherchi, ritenuto un vero maestro in questo genere di lavoro, fa 
del plagio garzoniano, scoprendo fonti spesso arcane — ad esempio, quanti sarebbero in 
grado di identificare la fonte di un passo nel proemio al commento di Cecco d’Ascoli alla 
Sphaera di Sacrobosco? — e secondo un calcolo del curatore, il 95% dell’opera sarebbe 
stato ricondotto alle sue fonti. La ricostruzione delle fonti costituisce anche il nucleo piu 
importante del commento, che sotto questo aspetto si pud definire senza esitazione 
“magistrale”. La ricerca delle fonti offre un campione impareggiabile di quel fenomeno 
della riscrittura del secondo Cinquecento (fenomeno recentemente sistemato da Cherchi 
nel suo Polimatia di riuso Roma, Bulzoni 1998); spiega in modo definitivo la supposta 
“erudizione” di Garzoni, e in moltissimi casi consente di sanare il testo o di spiegarlo in 
modo che sarebbe altrimenti impossibile. Il lessico tecnico non €_ glossato 


Italian Bookshelf 407 


sistematicamente: per farlo ci sarebbe voluto un commento speciale — come sarebbe 
stato possibile glossare sei pagine fitte di termini dedicati alle vele e ad altre parti delle 
navi? — e mi sembra auspicabile che qualche specialista un giorno ci dia un glossario 
della Piazza. 

La parte introduttiva contiene due saggi. II primo é di Cherchi, “Invito alla lettura della 
Piazza’, in cui si affronta il problema della leggibilita di un’opera del genere. I] problema 
viene risolto positivamente, ricostruendo il modo sapientissimo con cui Garzoni riusci a 
dosare materia antica e moderna, registro dotto e popolare, aneddotica e linguaggio 
tecnico, erudizione e curiosita, creando un impasto che raramente lascia dormire; non 
solo: la combinazione del genere “selva” con il genere “enciclopedia” crea un movimento 
all’interno dell’opera che la porta a variare continuamente, riuscendo leggibile ad 
apertura di pagina e prevedibile nel modo in cui l’argomento viene strutturato. Questo bel 
saggio dovrebbe determinare |’inclusione di Garzoni nelle antologie letterarie 

Il secondo saggio si deve a Collina, “Un cervello universale”. La biografia di Garzoni é 
ricostruita con accuratezza e dovizia di dati, ricavati in gran parte dal lavoro di Cherchi, 
Enciclopedismo e politica della riscrittura del 1989 (e quasi mai viene riconosciuta 
questa fonte, dalla quale derivano moltissimi dati ma anche qualche errore, come ad 
esempio il fatto che l’ultimo a menzionare la Piazza sia stato Gracian, mentre ricorderei 
l’apprezzamento positivo nel Cane di Diogene di Fulvio Frugoni). Questo saggio, ma un 
po’ digressivo (per esempio: perché tanta attenzione alla figura di Colorni?), dedica 
molto spazio a risolvere quello che dovrebbe essere un problema biografico e 
intellettuale, cioé la mancata pubblicazione del Serraglio degli stupori del mondo, che 
Garzoni annunciava sempre come pronto per le stampe ma che non vide mai la luce se 
non dopo la sua morte. Collina ritiene che l’opera abbia urtato la censura e questo non 
solo impedi la pubblicazione dell’opera ma cred anche una congiura di silenzio 
sull’autore, molti dati biografici del quale rimarrebbero misteriosi. Le prove di questa 
congiura di silenzio (gia avanzate da Ivan Simonini nel profilo biografico pubblicato in 
Uno zingaro in convento) sono poco convincenti, e si ha l’impressione che Collina si sia 
inventato un problema. Collina (p. XCI sgg.) sostiene che Possevino condanni la Piazza, 
e cid sarebbe una prova dell’ostilita che la Chiesa nutri verso il Canonico Lateranense; 
ma quella censura si trova in un libro in cui si passano in rassegna le letture consigliabili 
per gli studenti, e la Piazza non é fra quelii; tuttavia non si tratta di una censura 
“ecclesiastica”, ma solo di una riserva pedagogica. Nel complesso il Garzoni della 
Collina sarebbe un ribelle in pectore; ma é una tesi difficile da accettare, come 
inaccettabile é la visione della cultura controriformistica che emerge da queste pagine. 

La nota al testo é curata da Cherchi: é funzionale ed essenziale; forse sarebbe stato 
opportuno dilungarsi sulla lingua di Garzoni, sulla patina “settentrionale” del suo 
linguaggio. La bibliografia é curata da Collina: alquanto lunga e pletorica (include anche 
articoletti di enciclopedie) e non manca qualche imprecisione, come la collocazione di 
Letterio di Francia sotto “Letterio”, evidentemente ritenuto cognome. 

Per quanto riguarda il testo non posso dare un giudizio preciso, non disponendo della 
princeps su cui il testo é basato, e avendo solo a mano |’anastatica dell’edizione 1589 che 
secondo i curatori sarebbe la definitiva per certi aspetti ma anche molto scorretta rispetto 
alla prima. In genere mi sembra che la cura sia quasi sempre ineccepibile, 
nell’interpunzione, nelle numerose integrazioni basate quasi sempre sulle fonti, nelle 
lezioni. Ogni tanto sorge qualche dubbio. Ad esempio lo “spartanamente” che si legge a 
p. 4 sara forse da leggere “spartatamente” (cioé “distintamente” e in parallelo con 


408 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


I’“unitamente” che segue) come da |’edizione 1589. Mi chiedo se |’attributo di “falso” 
unito a “motto” o a “parlare” (pp. 1237 e 247) non si debba leggere “salso”, a meno che 
la fonte indicata, e a me inaccessibile, non confermi tale lezione. Le citazioni in latino 
sono accurate e spesso son state corrette rispetto a quelle che trovo nell’edizione 1589. 
Avrei corretto a p. 68 “diis immortalis” in “diis immortalibus”; a p. 1288 direi “tutum 
carpe viator iter” anziche “titum”, ecc.; a p. 1284 nei versi di Virgilio correggerei 
“Caucasiasque” per “Caucasasque”, e nei versi di Properzio “manserunt” per 
“mansuerunt”, e cosi in vari altri luoghi che son pil frequenti nella parte curata da 
Collina, la quale, per altro traduce correttamente, creando il sospetto che qualcuno abbia 
fatto la traduzione indipendentemente dal testo. A p. 1338 trovo la lezione “materie” che 
va contro le osservazioni fatte a p. 59, nota 205 secondo cui si dovrebbe leggere 
“materie”: qui pare che la collaborazione fra i due curatori sia venuta meno. E in realta, 
stando a voci che circolano in ambienti bolognesi e altrove, la collaborazione fra i due 
curatori non deve essere stata felice, perché il commento e il testo sarebbero stati curati 
integralmente da Cherchi, che lavorava a Chicago, mentre Collina avrebbe collaborato 
identificando alcune citazioni in libri accessibili in biblioteche italiane. Sennonché, in un 
secondo momento, per una discordia non ben chiarita, sarebbe intervenuta a modificare 
alcune note, a correggere alcune traduzioni di passi latini nei discorsi che le sono 
attribuiti; dal canto suo Cherchi si sarebbe rifiutato di rivedere le bozze dei capitoli 
attribuiti alla Collina per contratto; anzi la Collina in questa seconda fase avrebbe 
cambiato delle lezioni riprendole, anche quando erano erronee, dall’edizione 1589, e che 
Cherchi a sua volta abbia operato un salvataggio in extremis. Quanto ci si di vero in 
queste voci non so dire, ma certo é che spiegherebbero alcune delle incongruenze 
rilevate. In ogni modo, stando a quel che si dichiara a p. CXV, i discorsi curati da Collina 
(LXXVI-CLV) corrispondono in volume ad un terzo dell’opera, e, considerando che 
almeno una quindicina di discorsi erano gia stati curati da Cherchi nella sua edizione 
delle Opere di Tomaso Garzoni (Ravenna, Longo 1994) e che Cherchi ha curato anche 
l’immenso indice dei nomi (pp. 1595-1708) che funge da commento parziale, la 
collaborazione di Collina si riduce ulteriormente. Ma non voglio insistere su questo 
aspetto sfortunato del lavoro, anche se una collaborazione piu felice avrebbe forse evitato 
errori. 

In un lavoro come La Piazza, dalla mole veramente insolita e dalle difficolta infinite, 
sono inevitabili i refusi, anche presso un editore del prestigio di Einaudi; e sono 
inevitabili anche gli errori di distrazione. Ne voglio ricordare uno di Cherchi, il quale a p. 
LVIII ricorda “il dialogo di Paolo Rossello sulla servitt tradotto dal De patientia di Celio 
Calcagnini”, ma Cherchi stesso aveva annunciato nel 1995 questa sua bella scoperta 
nell’articolo “Leonardo Fioravanti e Antonio de Guevara” sulla rivista Esperienze 
letterarie (pp. 13-36), dove il dialogo di cui si parla non tratta di servi ma di cortigiani. 
Sono della “macule veniali”, e con Orazio mi piace ripetere: “Ubi plura nitent non ego 
paucis offendar maculis, quas aut incuria fudit aut humana parum cavit natura” (Ars 
poetica, 352 sgg.): un’edizione corredata d’un commento veramente straordinario per la 
ricchezza di dati va salutata per quello che é: un’opera monumentale e magistrale. 

Sarebbe doveroso ricordare qui un evento singolare, ossia la pubblicazione, nello 
stesso mese e nella stessa settimana, della Piazza per i tipi della casa fiorentina Olschki a 
cura di Giovan Battista Bronzini, con la collaborazione di Pina De Meo e Luciano 
Carcereri, in due grossi volumi: |’evento prova almeno che il lavoro garzoniano sia degno 
d’attenzione . Non é possibile in questa sede andare oltre questa doverosa menzione; 


Italian Bookshelf 409 


devo solo dire che l’edizione bronziniana é priva di commento ma ha un apparato di 
“lezioni” in un’appendice in cui si comparano le varie edizioni dell’opera dalla princeps 
all’ultima uscita nel 1665. Da quel che ho potuto vedere si tratta di un’edizione 
illeggibile, quasi un’anastatica, con minimi interventi editoriali. 


Gino Casagrande, University of Wisconsin in Florence 


[Postilla redazionale. Per un dibattito a proposito delle due edizioni della Piazza si veda 
la recensione, apertamente faziosa, di uno dei collaboratori all’edizione olschkiana, 
Luciano Carcereri (Proteo. Quaderni del Centro Interuniversitario di Teoria e Storia dei 
Generi Letterari, 2/96, pp. 75-87), e l’efficace risposta di Paolo Cherchi (“In spirito di 
contraddizione” in Rassegna Europea della Letteratura Italiana, 1998, pp. 123-50).] 


Gregory, Heather, trans. Selected Letters of Alessandra Strozzi. Bilingual edition. 
Berkeley, CA: U. of California P, 1997. Pp. 252. 


This latest publication of the Biblioteca Italiana is a translation of 35 among the 
surviving letters by a Florentine widow of the fifteenth century. The book consists of an 
introduction, facing Italian and English translation, notes to the English translation by 
letter number, a bibliography, and an index. 

The introduction is primarily historical. It contains a useful discussion of 
historiography and changes in approach to history in recent years, leading to an interest in 
its personal side. There are two little problems which stumped me between the 
introduction and letters. First, it is not always clear who is writing the letters. Gregory 
notes, “[Alessandra] would have preferred to dictate her letters to a secretary, 
professional or amateur” (7); and in a letter, Alessandra mentions that she misses 
Matteo’s writing for her (56-57), yet much is made of the fact that she writes and is 
numerate. Are there differences in letters when she personally is writing as opposed to 
having letters written? It would be interesting to know. Furthermore, the actual number of 
letters was unclear until consulting the original edition. The back cover notes 72 total 
letters; Gregory mentions 73 (1); again, she also mentions 73 (7), yet on the same page 
speaks of the “thirty-seven letters which are not included” when she translates 35, which 
would make 72. I presume the confusion is due to the extra letter printed as an appendix 
to the 1972 reprint. The introduction therefore is historical and addresses a primarily non- 
Italian-speaking audience. 

The Italian text is based on Guasti’s 1877 edition. I was unable to consult either the 
originals in the Archivio Fiorentino di Stato or reprint of the Guasti edition (1972) (which 
contains an extra letter) to compare the text. I did however examine the original Guasti 
edition (1877) and the Bianchini edition (Garzanti, 1987), and from a few test examples 
Gregory’s text agrees with Guasti’s, both using only acute accents (Bianchini, however, 
writes sicché, né, etc., for Guasti’s and Gregory’s sicché, né, etc.). Bianchini comments 
that Guasti’s is “un’edizione esemplare” (12-13), for which reason later editions follow 
his. Neither Bianchini nor Gregory comments at any length upon the language; Gregory 
comments briefly upon the style and punctuation (8). This edition is clearly not intended 
for use by those specifically studying the language, which makes sense since it is a 


410 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


translation. The facing English translation includes a summary of the content before each 
letter; where paragraphs are omitted, the translator specifies how many and summarizes 
the sections omitted. The explanatory notes are exclusively in the English portion, not the 
Italian. These are letters between a Florentine mother and her sons in exile, with an 
emphasis on money and accounts, her family (daughters’ marriages), the need to marry 
the sons and the process for so doing. Political concerns appear as well, with encoded 
names in 2 letters to avoid being understood by those reading (letters 21, 133, 171). The 
letters are of interest because of the political situation: fifteenth-century Florence, living 
conditions, and also how close ties are in family business - they are almost a clan, with a 
strong sense of honor and dishonor. Throughout the spellings are British - e.g., “honour,” 
for reasons which are not stated in an American publication. Gregory differs from the 
original in dating the letters according to modern convention, that is, beginning the new 
year at January | where Alessandra began with April 1. This might cause some confusion 
when consulting the Italian editions. Gregory’s edition numbers the letters she has chosen 
in sequential order, not following Guasti’s; anyone wishing to check the earlier edition, 
therefore, must check by date and not by letter number. 

The notes contain explanations of political situations, social conventions, and 
complete names of those mentioned. Locations are also given for smaller villages and 
family villas. All distances are in kilometers, which mean little to many American 
readers. The references are to the English translation alone, but this is closely spaced to 
follow the Italian so that a reader wishing to follow the Italian can easily place the notes. 
A few appendices would have been helpful: a map for small towns near Florence (e.g., 
Quaracchi (47); Lari (217)) and family possessions would have been useful. Though 
Prato and Pistoia will be familiar to most readers, the smaller sites are not. Family trees 
would also have been handy; it is easy to lose track of all the Strozzis. A family tree 
concentrating on Alessandra’s family but including those relatives who employed the 
sons, as well as a de’ Medici tree for the period covered, would make following events 
more simple. 

The bibliography is selected, containing both textua! and historical items. I was 
surprised not to see Revelations of the Medieval World, part of the History of Private Life 
(Cambridge, MA/London, Belknap Press, Harvard UP, 1988), especially since a whole 
chapter is dedicated to “Tuscan Notables on the Eve of the Renaissance” (157-309) 
which discusses private correspondence, memoirs, and diaries at length — including 
Alessandra Strozzi (251-259) — and helps to give a broader concept of what is available. 
Otherwise the bibliography is a good starting point for research specifically on 
Alessandra Strozzi. 

The index is quite good and useful with items of cultural interest, such as breast- 
feeding, as well as taxes, and naming of children. It clearly reflects the interests of the 
translator in including such personal data and not excluding them to the benefit of names 
alone, an all-too-frequent practice in such works (cf. Bianchini). 

This translation is a departure of the Biblioteca Italiana series from the earlier ones. 
Previously, it had published a well-received Boiardo translation with side-by-side Italian; 
Ariosto’s Cinque Canti; and similar items. Strozzi’s letters mark another work in English 
to add to the series of other Tuscan writers of the late Middle Ages and Renaissance, such 
as Giovanni Dati of Prato, and provide a female point of view. Such translations are 
useful since many people work on the era without a knowledge of Italian, and ideas have 
been formed by literature rather than daily life, which is indeed a far cry from Bembo’s 


Italian Bookshelf 411 


Cortigiano ideal or Ariosto’s ladies. This work is a welcome addition to Medieval and 
Renaissance literature and culture courses. 
Leslie Zarker Morgan, Loyola College in Maryland 


Il soggetto e la storia: biografia e autobiografia in L. A. Muratori. Atti della II giornata 
di studi muratoriani (Vignola, 23 ottobre 1993). Biblioteca dell’Edizione Nazionale di 
Carteggio di L. A. Muratori, [X. Firenze: Leo S. Olschki, 1994. Pp. v + 223. 


Lodovico Antonio Muratori (1672-1750), one of the European founders of medieval 
history, enjoyed a well-deserved, international celebrity in the eighteenth century. 
Edward Gibbon, who possessed Muratori’s Annali d'Italia (1753-1756) and Antiquitates 
Italicae Medii Aevi (1738-1742), did not fail to acknowledge his debt to the Modenese 
scholar: “Through the darkness of the middle ages I explored my way in the Annals and 
Antiquities of Italy of the learned Muratori” (Memoirs of My Life, ed. G. A. Bonnard, 
New York: Funk and Wagnalls, 1969, 147). In addition to his monumental contributions 
to medieval studies, Muratori, who was a Catholic parson, deserves to be remembered as 
a source of inspiration to the philosophy of the Enlightenment. Suffice it to say that he 
did not hesitate to assert that only ignorant people believed in witches: “Del resto pit 
facilmente nelle Ville, e fra il grossolano Popolo, che nelle Citta, alligna l’opinion delle 
Maliarde e delle Stregherie. Poco ci vuole, perché una povera vecchia, benché buona e 
innocente cristiana, resti denigrata coll’infame titolo di Strega” (Della forza della 
fantasia umana, Venezia: Presso Giambatista Pasquali, 1745, 138). Girolamo Tartarotti 
(1706-1761), who waged a memorable battle against magic, “was very pleased to 
discover that Muratori . . . had also denied the reality of witchcraft” (F. Venturi, 
“Enlightenment versus the Powers of Darkness,” Jtaly and the Enlightenment: Studies in 
a Cosmopolitan Century, ed. S. Woolf, tr. S. Corsi, New York: UP, 1972, 109). As to 
Muratori’s contribution to literary criticism, it was well illustrated by J. G. Robertson, 
husband of the Australian writer “Henry Handel Richardson” (Mrs. Ethel F. Robertson, 
1870-1946, on whom see I. Donaldson, “Ettie Inviolate,’ TLS, 3 Oct. 1997: 24), in his 
concise and penetrating essay, “Lodovico Antonio Muratori” (Studies in the Genesis of 
Romantic Theory in the Eighteenth Century, New York: Russell and Russell, 1962, 60- 
95): 

It is no wonder that such a multi-faceted author as Muratori continues to attract the 
attention of historians and critics, as attested by the book under review, a collection of six 
state-of-the-art papers read at a conference dedicated to his influence on the development 
of biography and autobiography: Andrea Battistini’s “Il ‘gran profitto’ delle ‘verita 
dissotterrate’: Le ragioni di Muratori autobiografo” (1-23); Anna Burlini Calapaj’s “Dalla 
biografia del Segneri alla biografia del Giacobini: un percorso spirituale” (25-113); 
Martino Capucci’s “Biografie lombarde” (115-30); Fabio Marri’s “Autografi muratoriani 
poco noti della Vita e delle opere poetiche di Carlo Maria Maggi” (131-63); Pietro 
Puliatti’s “La biografia come itinerario intellettuale: Muratori e Tassoni” (165-94); and 
Albano Biondi’s “Gli eretici modenesi nell’opera di L. A. Muratori” (195-211). These 
contributions are introduced by a short “Premessa” signed by Capucci. The volume has a 
very useful index of names (213-21) which also includes titles of works. It reflects a high 
level of scholarship, and does not make any concession to those trendy theories of 


412 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


literature that are presently the target of more or less devastating attacks, not only in the 
English-speaking world, but also in France (Figaro Littéraire, 16 Oct. 1997: 1-3). 

Battistini, the leading Italian scholar of autobiographical and biographical studies, is 
the ideal guide to introduce the reader to the cultural background. In his Nichomachean 
Ethics (4, 1125a), Aristotle dissuaded people from writing about themselves. He was 
followed by Cicero, Dante, and Petrarch. Under the influence of Bacon’s De dignitate et 
augmentis scientiarum, Benedetto Bacchini (1651-1721) lamented in 1692 the scarcity of 
biographical information concerning intellectuals, and in 1698 wrote the Memorie della 
mia Celleria, a journal similar to the “libri di bottega.” A few years later in 1705, 
Bacchini, prodded by the desire to inform fellow scholars about his own achievements, 
wrote his own autobiography in the third person and in Latin, which appeared in 
Giornale de’ Letterati d'Italia, 34 (1723), 295-319. The autobiographical genre, which 
reached its full development only toward the end of the eighteenth century, was still a 
typical hybrid of biography and autobiography, yet its development had begun. Its 
importance increased in the following years, thanks also to Muratori who maintained, in 
his Della perfetta poesia italiana of 1706, that poets should explain in autobiographical 
writings “il modo, con cui eglino han trovati i concetti, dissotterrate le Verita ascose 
dentro a quella Materia; e . . . come la Fantasia loro siasi agitata” (ed. A. Ruschioni, 
Milano: Marzorati, 1971-2, vol. 1, 504). Battistini convincingly demonstrates that 
Giovanni Artico di Porcia’s Progetto ai letterati d'Italia per scrivere le loro vite of 1728 
— a work which is credited with originating not only Vico’s but also Muratori’s 
autobiography — was inspired by the Perfetta poesia as well as by Antonio Conti and 
Leibnitz. 

The important role of Muratori in the development of the biographical genre is 
amply substantiated by his lives of people as diverse as ecclesiastics such as Paolo 
Segneri the younger or Benedetto Lodovico Giacobini (which Bulini Calapaj illustrates in 
the light of Muratori’s correspondence with Giovan Battista Bartoli); authors such as 
Carlo Maria Maggi and Francesco de Lemene, who were considered the seventeenth- 
century forerunners of Arcadian taste and who represented in their dialectal compositions 
what Capucci calls the Lombard patriotism; a poet and philosopher such as Tassoni, who 
attracted Muratori’s attention for more than fifty years, as Puliatti proves in his excellent 
contribution; a declared heretic such as Lodovico Castelvetro, whose life appeared in 
Milan in 1727 with the false imprint of Lyons (“Stamperia di Pietro Foppens”) because 
the Inquisition was alive and kicking in Muratori’s time, as Biondi appropriately notes. 
Among the copious manuscript material studied in this volume, I must single out 
Muratori’s autographs related to the Vita di Carlo Maria Maggi, which are the subject 
matter of Marri’s substantial paper. 

Gustavo Costa, University of California, Berkeley 


Neera. Lydia. Lecco: Periplo, 1997. Pp. 202. 


Famosa, letta da un gruppo di fedelissime ed entusiaste ammiratrici, recensita dai critici 
pill in voga tra la fine dell’Ottocento e l’inizio del Novecento, Anna Radius Zuccari — in 
arte Neera — venne poi, destino condiviso da altre autrici contemporanee, quasi 
completamente dimenticata. Eppure, in tempi non certo benevoli verso le donne e le 


Italian Bookshelf 413 


scrittrici in particolare, questa moglie e madre di famiglia appassionata di letteratura, 
intrattenne rapporti epistolari con intellettuali di rango. Basti, tra tutti, un nome: quello di 
Benedetto Croce. Nata nel 1846 a Milano, precocemente orfana e cresciuta dalle zie, 
Neera esordi nel 1876 con Un romanzo, e termino le proprie fatiche con Crepuscoli di 
liberta, nel 1917. Mori l’anno seguente, lasciando una quarantina di romanzi. Fu inoltre 
un’ assidua collaboratrice dei giornali e delle riviste pil significative del periodo: dal 
Corriere della Sera alla Nuova Antologia, dal Marzocco al Corriere di Napoli. A questa 
attivita affiancd quella di instancabile epistolografa: di notevole interesse é il cospicuo 
epistolario, che annovera tra i corrispondenti i caposcuola del verismo italiano: Capuana, 
Verga e De Roberto. 

I romanzi di Neera erano, a tutt’oggi, praticamente introvabili, reperibili semmai in 
qualche biblioteca, in edizioni di inizio secolo, sfascicolate e fatiscenti. E merito 
dell’editore Periplo, e dell’attenzione della Professoressa Antonia Arslan che ne cura la 
collana Voci Negate, se alcuni dei suoi testi sono stati ora ripubblicati. La riedizione ha 
generato un revival di attenzione, nonché di studi, per la scrittrice. 

Lydia, uscito nel 1887, € il secondo volume di una trilogia che |’autrice stessa, 
seguendo un modello zoliano o forse pil genuinamente verghiano, intitold “ciclo della 
donna giovane” (gli altri testi sono Teresa, 1886, e L’indomani, 1889). La narrazione é 
centrata attorno alla figura della protagonista, Lydia, rampolla della ricca borghesia 
milanese, viziata dalla madre vedova e da un austero zio paterno, Leopoldo. Ben decisa a 
divertirsi, la ragazza dedica cure raffinatissime alla propria toilette e diviene esperta di 
civetteria, senza perd rinunciare ad esprimere uno spirito ribelle e leggermente 
trasgressivo. Poco adatta alle sublimita dello spirito, come alcune sue nobili amiche di 
non pit: fiorenti condizioni economiche, gioca al gioco della seduzione con studiato 
artificio, senza mai correre autentici rischi. E, in questa ambiguita di fondo, sta l’irrisolto 
paradosso del romanzo: Lydia, la giovane edonista e superficiale, il cui motto ostentato é 
“divertirsi” rimane infatti vergine; una verginita che non ha alcuna motivazione 
apparente, se non una negazione del corpo, che sarebbe indubbiamente proficuo 
analizzare in sede critica. La negazione del corpo é sintomo di un’incapacita di viversi se 
non come “maschera” in ipocriti rapporti sociali: ¢ una forma di resistenza ad oltranza, 
con cui Lydia non cede e non si cede a nessuno, ma é anche il modo di rinnegare una 
corporeita, alias forma esteriore, vista attraverso un disappropriante sguardo maschile; 
che viene, malauguratamente, fatto proprio. Trentenne Lydia conosce, tramite la 
baronessa Thea von Stern, un giovane tenente degli usseri, il Conte Riccardo Keptsky. 
Questa volta la razionalita non fa da argine al prorompere appassionato dei sentimenti. 
Lydia si innamora perdutamente quasi a prima vista, con la cecita e |’ ardore proprio di 
chi vive una passione adolescenziale con quindici anni di ritardo. Nonostante le malevole 
indicazioni dell’avvocato Calmi, un amico che pare - lui si - impersonare un carattere 
positivista di ascendenza capuaniana, Lydia decide di proseguire il progetto 
matrimoniale. Ma, quando scoprira, sempre dietro istigazione di Calmi, che Keptsky ¢ 
l’amante della sua amica Thea, non le restera che il suicidio. Peraltro eseguito — la classe 
non é acqua — con una graziosa pistola da signora dal manico di madreperla. Lydia si 
aggiunge cosi a una schiera di eroine tardo-ottocentesche, Madame Bovary, Anna 
Karenina e la nostrana Giacinta, il cui utopico e totalizzante sogno amoroso culmina nella 
morte. 

Quali sono gli ingredienti di questo romanzo diviso in due o meglio tre parti? C’é 
ovviamente |’influsso del naturalismo francese, con il formalismo rigidamente codificato 


414 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


delle relazioni tra i sessi, le toilettes studiatissime, il vuoto esistenziale che s’ 
accompagna a dei rapporti sociali tanto ostentati quanto insipidi. C’é, anche, la tradizione 
del verismo italiano che Neera conosce bene, e di cui discetta a lungo, via epistola, con 
l’amico Capuana. E, di proprio, la scrittrice aggiunge quella vena intimo-psicologista che 
la porta ad essere, come ben ha sottolineato Paola Azzolini nell’introduzione, un’autrice 
non d’intreccio, ma di atmosfere, interessata pit allo studio dei personaggi e alle loro 
recondite motivazioni, che alla trama e all’azione. 

Ma parlavamo di romanzo bi- 0 tripartito. La prima parte é dedicata alla descrizione 
dei salotti e delle feste dell’alta borghesia milanese. Qui |’autrice denota una straordinaria 
conoscenza di mussole, trine, pizzi, cartamodelli, cappellini, borse e chi ne ha pid ne 
metta. La giovane e viziata Lydia si affaccia sul palcoscenico del bel mondo, fermamente 
decisa a ritagliarsi una fetta di ammiratori. La seconda parte ¢ forse, come abbiamo gia 
indicato, la pil enigmatica in termini di economia narrativa, in quanto vede una 
giovinezza spesa in un’orgogliosa negazione di sé, che si accompagna pero, 
paradossalmente, a una studiata auto-rappresentazione vogliosa si di sedurre, ma paga di 
non consumare il frutto della seduzione. L’ultima sezione racconta, con dovizie di 
rossori, palpitazioni, rami fioriti e cavalcate all’alba, l’innamoramento per Keptsky e la 
tragica scelta finale. 

Lydia é, chiaramente, una donna spezzata, incapace di sintetizzare la dimensione 
esteriore cosi ostentatamente vacua con una dimensione interiore, che riuscira a 
contattare solo grazie all’amore, catalizzatore di conoscenza e autoconoscenza. In questa 
ipertrofia della superficie esterna e ipotrofia dello spazio interiore, in questa dis-misura 
che procura qualche forzatura nella costruzione del personaggio, sta il quesito forse pit 
interessante posto dalla protagonista: come appropriarsi di un’interiorita che appare solo 
al termine del testo, e, per di pil, scatenata da un movente esterno? 

Va segnalata anche |l’appendice curata da Gian Luca Baio, che include un profilo 
biografico di Neera, la sua bibliografia e due lettere inedite inviatele da De Roberto. 
Interessante anche |’introduzione che, sul versante del reader-response criticism, situa il 
romanzo nel contesto della recezione di fine secolo. 

Anna Maria Torriglia, University of California at Padua 


Franco Zangrilli. Pirandello ei classici: Da Euripede a Verga. Firenze: Cadmo, 1995. 
Pp. 179. 

Franco Zangrilli. Le sorprese dell’intertestualita: Cervantes e Pirandello. Torino: SEI, 
1996. Pp. 118. 


Franco Zangrilli ha messo a frutto la sua vasta conoscenza delle opere pirandelliane per 
darci, dopo il felice lavoro di Linea pirandelliana nella narrativa contemporanea 
(Ravenna, Longo, 1990), due altri studi comparati, altrettanto interessanti, che gettano 
ulteriore luce sulla vena ispiratrice dello scrittore siciliano attraverso un viaggio 
intertestuale che pone a confronto |’opera narrativa e teatrale di Pirandello con i classici 
del passato. Questi lavori di Zangrilli fanno perno sul saggio L’umorismo come opera 
seminale di Pirandello, a cui pud essere ricondotta tutta la produzione artistica 
pirandelliana in quanto documento di “poetica” a cui é rimasto fedele e in cui lo scrittore 
rivela, tra l’altro, le numerose opere da lui lette e meditate. Se “ogni scrittore crea i suoi 


Italian Bookshelf 415 


precursori”, come dice Zangrilli parafrasando Borjes (Pirandello 9), anche Pirandello si é 
creato i propri. Sappiamo che I’artista siciliano é stato un avido e attento lettore che ha 
saputo scegliere quelli che per sensibilita artistica potevano ricollegarsi alla sua visione 
poetica basata su un’inquietante visione della vita e su una sofferta partecipazione al 
dolore umano, per cui ogni incontro si é trasformato in un fecondo rapporto spirituale 
creando percezioni, pulsazioni, tensioni, visioni dell’uomo e della realta che a loro volta 
hanno influito sul suo processo creativo. Zangrilli ha compiuto un viaggio nel tempo 
onde recuperare questi legami concreti e tuttavia ideali soprattutto centrandosi nello 
sforzo di cogliere uno dei pit fecondi filoni “poetici” che percorre |’intera tradizione 
letteraria occidentale, quello dell’umorismo. I suoi lavori vanno percid al di 1a della 
semplice documentazione delle connivenze e mirano ad offrire al lettore il complesso di 
“affinita, di risonanze, di variazioni” (11) per cui tra Pirandello e i suoi classici si forma 
un “sistema di interdipendenze, di correlazioni, di rapporti, di echi e anche di inconsce 
influenze” (10). L’immagine di Pirandello che ne risulta é quella di un attento lettore che 
ha saputo cogliere la vera sostanza “umoristica” degli autori del passato e trasformarla in 
“continuita rispetto alla tradizione letteraria” (10). Questa impostazione permette a 
Zangrilli di trattare un’infinita di aspetti, soprattutto di natura filologica, non percepiti 
dalla critica pirandelliana, alla quale del resto |’autore nel capitoletto introduttivo 
rimprovera di aver finora “ignorato il rapporto di Pirandello e con la letteratura latina” 
(12) e con quella “medioevale, da Dante a Boccaccio” (16). 

Nel secondo capitolo Zangrilli affronta i rapporti tra Pirandello e la letteratura greca, 
tutta intrisa di tensione umoristica anche nella descrizione dei paesaggi. L’autore 
maggiormente letto da Pirandello é Euripide che per la sostanza morale e per il senso del 
dolore che ne permea |’ispirazione é pil “vicino al nostro modo di vedere e di sentire” 
(23). Nel Ciclope di Euripide, da Pirandello tradotto nel dialetto siciliano, Zangrilli 
riscontra un paesaggio intriso di sostanza umoristica allo stesso modo del paesaggio di 
Liola e caratteri e comportamenti dei suoi personaggi siciliani. E lo stesso vale per i 
personaggi plautini, non importa quanto questi autori classici siano coscienti o meno 
della natura umoristica della loro ispirazione. 

I capitoli seguenti sono dedicati rispettivamente a Machiavelli, a Shakespeare, a 
Manzoni, a Verga e nell’ultimo si fanno estesi riferimenti a Cervantes. La personalita 
artistica di Machiavelli é stata molto studiata da Pirandello che ad essa dedica alcune 
pagine penetranti e ha fatto di “Belfagor” oggetto di un rifacimento. Pirandelliane sono 
tante situazioni e psicologie che si riscontrano nella Mandragola e nella Clizia 
machiavelliane, come “lo smascheramento e la seduzione” (68) nella prima dove “il 
comico porta pirandellianamente all’avvertimento del contrario” (68), 0 le annotazioni 
sulla metascrittura riscontrabili nella seconda. Anche il personaggio del Principe ha una 
dimensione pirandelliana se egli costantemente vive con una maschera addosso, sempre 
teso tra l’essere e l’apparire, recitando sempre la parte che si assegna. 

Il rapporto Pirandello-Shakespeare é di lunga durata poiché risale agli anni giovanili 
dell’artista siciliano, che conosce non solo il teatro ma anche la critica shakesperiana. 
Pirandello era attratto dal teatro shakesperiano per la sua novita rispetto al teatro 
tradizionale e per il suo spirito “comico”. E trovava nel personaggio di Amleto una 
ricchezza di quelle affinita umane e psicologiche su cui voleva dotare certi suoi 
personaggi, come |’Enrico IV. 

Parlando di Manzoni, Zangrilli si é concentrato inevitabilmente sulla figura di Don 
Abbondio verso il quale Manzoni dispiega un atteggiamento critico di comprensione 


416 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


tipico di un autore “umoristico”. Altri elementi che legano i due autori sono il sentimento 
della paura, il tema del viaggio come esperienza espositiva, la maschera dell’ipocrisia 
religiosa (116). 

Particolarmente sviluppato é il rapporto Verga-Pirandello, sia per motivi geografici 
che culturali. L’attenzione dello Zangrilli cade non tanto sui punti di contatto, inevitabili 
€ sui quali si é concentrata quasi tutta la critica, quanto sulle differenze, come il diverso 
modo di sentire la loro sicilianita. Confrontando “Cavalleria rusticana” con Liold il 
critico cerca di evidenziare le novita del personaggio pirandelliano, “ragionatore alla 
maniera di Baldovino, di Gala, di Laudisi e di Enrico IV” (144) e non una semplice 
variazione verghiana come vorrebbe |’interpretazione corrente. Per Zangrilli Verga 
rimane lo scrittore “naturalista” che vede la realta “nella sua oggettivita, come in uno 
specchio” (150), mentre Pirandello “la fa passare attraverso le lente deformante del 
soggettivismo, del relativismo, dello sdoppiamento, dell ’illusione” (150). 

L’ultimo capitolo, intitolato conclusione, invece di darci una _ valutazione 
complessiva e riassuntiva del contenuto del libro come normalmente si aspetterebbe da 
una “conclusione”, sviluppa una scorsa veloce di alcuni autori, come Cantoni e 
Cervantes, molto vicini a Pirandello sia per la visione della vita che per il loro 
temperamento artistico ai quali pero non gli é stato possibile dedicare un capitolo a parte. 
Di Cantoni si stabilisce, soprattutto, la pirandellianita del personaggio che “incarna tutte 
le nostre contraddizioni; si vede grande e piccolo, potente e debole . . . e la [sua] 
coscienza é profondamente tormentata . . . travagliata da una miriade di sensazioni, di 
sentimenti, di umori” (154). Quanto a Cervantes vi si anticipano alcuni dei tanti spunti 
che verranno approfonditi e ampliati ne Le sorprese dell’intertestualia: Cervantes e 
Pirandello. 

Le sorprese dell’intertestualia: Cervantes e Pirandello é@ un libro diviso in dodici 
capitoli, ciascuno dei quali studia dettagliatamente un aspetto del ricco rapporto che 
unisce Cervantes a Pirandello, che la critica ha finora trattato in maniera del tutto 
“impressionistica”. Il secondo capitolo indaga il comune sostrato di cultura mediterranea 
di cui si sono alimentati i due autori anche attaverso la loro frequentazione di scrittori 
come Boccaccio e Ariosto, e mette in rilievo il filo connettivo che unisce Cervantes e 
Pirandello, che consiste soprattutto nel forte senso dell’umorismo presente nella loro 
ispirazione. 

Nei capitoli seguenti — “La forma”, La follia”, “La dialettica”, “La giustizia”, “Il 
doppio” — Zangrilli illustra le varie manifestazioni dell’umorismo nell’opera dei due 
autori. Da esse emerge la presenza del personaggio alienato e diverso, che pud da questa 
posizione di vantaggio penetrare nella realta della societa circostante e smascherarla, 
magari avvantaggiato in questo dalla sua “follia”, dovuta alla sua indisponibilita verso i 
comportamenti di quella societa. Spesso si tratta di personaggi maturi, avvezzi alla 
lettura, alla riflessione filosofica, alla discussione, magari arzigogolata. E sono coscienti 
della loro condizione di emarginati, ma anche della loro funzione di rottura, di 
sowersivita nei riguardi della realta borghese, e difendono con accanimento la propria 
realta “relativa”, che ¢ l’emblema della dialettica umoristica. E quando la lotta con la 
societa circostante diventa impossibile, rimane loro come ultimo rimedio il rifugio 
nell’illusione o l’assunzione di una nuova identita per cui egli pud essere “ora uno ed ora 
anche nessuno, ora buon[o] e ora cattiv[o], ora razional[e] ora irrazional[e]”. 

Di particolare importanza sono i due capitoli dedicati al metadiscorso (VIII) e al 
metateatro (IX), anch’essi visti in funzione dell’umorismo. L’attenzione che tanto 


Italian Bookshelf 417 


Cervantes quanto Pirandello pongono al problema della creazione artistica é rilevante per 
comprendere la complessita degli influssi cervantini su Pirandello. Secondo il critico 
“Linflusso del discorso meta-artistico del capolavoro di Cervantes si fa vedere 
innanzitutto nella novella . . . come sperimentalizzazione nei riguardi della struttura” (47) 
e poi nella funzione che assume il personaggio nei confronti della materia artistica. Ed é 
in questa seconda dimensione che egli rivela la sua natura umoristica, una natura che egli 
condivide con il personaggio cervantino: “Cervantes e Pirandello hanno dimostrato che 
l’eroe onesto, e quindi impotente, vinto, meschino, non é affatto fastidioso, se é conscio 
della sua natura umoristica e si sforza di affermarla in un mondo che la ignora o la vuole 
sopprimere” (49). Conseguentemente “si delinea la poetica del personaggio pirandelliano, 
che é un antieroe, un don Chisciotte moderno” (49). 

Dopo i due brevissimi capitoli “Il femminile” e “Il matrimonio”, si arriva al capitolo 
finale, “Viaggio”. Secondo Zangrilli i due autori ricorrono spesso al motivo archetipale 
del viaggio come evasione e come ricerca, anche se gli esiti variano, dato che in 
Pirandello c’é sempre una spinta verso il tragico a condizionare il risultato finale. In 
ambedue gli scrittori inoltre il viaggio assume andamenti picareschi che nel personaggio 
cervantino assecondano spesso una tendenza verso |’illegalita, oltre che il bisogno di 
trovare un modo per campare, mentre in quello pirandelliano essi servono a soddisfare 
“profonde necessita, esistenziali e spirituali” (73). Interessante il paragrafo finale del 
capitolo che vuole essere pit che una conclusione, una proiezione verso il futuro, quello 
dell’influenza di Pirandello sulla letteratura spagnola e latino-americana in generale, 
probabilmente l’argomento di una prossima opera di Franco Zangrilli. 


Anthony Costantini, California State University, Northridge 


Paola Casella. Strumenti di filologia pirandelliana. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 1997. 
Pp. 254. 


I] libro di Paola Casella si divide in tre parti. Nella prima |’autrice esamina i testi, finora 
inedite, di ventisei novelle pirandelliane, e li mette a confronto con quelli gia inseriti 
nell’edizione critica delle Novelle per un anno diretta da Giovanni Macchia, di cui il libro 
in oggetto vuole costituire un “complemento.” Aver reso disponibili, grazie soprattutto ad 
indicazioni tratte dall’epistolario pirandelliano, un cosi gran numero di edizioni inedite, é 
un fatto di per sé stesso della massima importanza. Se poi a questo si aggiunge |’acume 
critico con cui Paola Casella conduce la sua lettura “verticale” dei testi pirandelliani, per 
usare un termine usato da Borsellino nel suo ormai classico saggio sulla “stratigrafia” 
dell’Esclusa, appare chiaro fin dal principio che questo studio é destinato ad assumere 
un’importanza notevole per gli studiosi dell’ opera pirandelliana. 

La seconda parte del libro raccoglie alcuni saggi inediti di Pirandello, apparsi su 
varie riviste in un arco di tempo che va dal 1894 al 1926. In attesa della nuova edizione 
mondadoriana dei saggi, curata da Alfredo Barbina, anche questo contributo, per quanto 
modesto, ha la sua importanza. La terza parte, infine, contiene un saggio sulla ricezione 
critica dell’opera pirandelliana, cosi come fu vista dai suoi contemporanei, ed una lista, 
suddivisa per anno, delle recensioni apparse tra il 1893 e il 1936. Per quanto certamente 
non esaustiva, la “giunta” proposta da Paola Casella colma una notevole lacuna nella 


418 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


bibliografia critica curata da Alfredo Barbina, ritenuta strumento indispensabile per chi si 
occupa di studi pirandelliani. 

Tra i ritrovamenti di novelle compiuti da Paola Casella, da segnalare é quello della 
prima edizione della novella “Matrimonio ideale,” pubblicata la prima volta nel 1905 con 
il titolo “Una novella che non fard,” di cui l’autrice da una lettura molto interessante, 
mettendola in relazione con il saggio pirandelliano sull’umorismo. Altra trouvaille 
importante é la prima edizione del “Marito di mia moglie,” riprodotta per intero negli 
apparati complementari, in quanto si discosta notevolmente dalle edizioni successive. Le 
varianti sono segnalate con notevole rigore filologico e messe sempre in relazione con 
l’edizione critica dei Meridiani Mondadori. Percorrendo il volume, non si pud fare a 
meno di notare la sicurezza con cui Casella si muove nel “labirinto variantistico” delle 
novelle pirandelliane, sottolineando tendenze di fondo che fanno luce sull’evoluzione 
della scrittura e della poetica dello scrittore siciliano. 

La seconda parte del volume é a sua volta divisa in due sezioni. La prima contiene 
tre recensioni giovanili di Pirandello, scritte tra il 1894 e 1898, periodo importante per 
l’autore siciliano, allora agli inzi della sua carriera di scrittore. Gli scritti, come spesso 
accade in Pirandello, contengono numerose digressioni di carattere teorico, in cui |’autore 
mette a fuoco la sua poetica: la sua predilezione per il genere comico-umoristico e¢ il 
rifiuto delle mode letterarie contemporaneee, quali il simbolismo, che portano gli scrittori 
ad usare uno stile falso ed artificiale. Da segnalare, nella recensione a una raccolta di 
novelle di Guido Fortebracci, stroncata proprio per |’eccessiva preziosita dello stile, un 
riferimento positivo ad una novella la cui trama ricorda per alcuni aspetti quella 
dell’Enrico IV. Pirandello si sofferma su questo testo, dandone un sommario piuttosto 
dettagliato. Tutte e tre le recensioni, comunque, dimostrano come l’attivita critica 
fornisse al giovane scrittore un’opportunita per raffinare le proprie idee sull’arte, che egli 
andava sviluppando in quegli anni nell’ambito del cenacolo letterario romano in cui la 
figura piu importante era Francesco Capuana. 

La seconda sezione contiene invece scritti teorici pubblicati sul Popolo d'Italia, il 
giornale di Mussolini, tra il 1925 e il 1926. I saggi coincidono quindi con un momento 
cruciale della vita di Pirandello. Sono questi gli anni infatti in cui Pirandello aderisce al 
Fascismo, e in cui appaiono i saggi di Tilgher sulla filosofia pirandelliana, che tanta 
influenza avranno sia sulla critica che sull’autore stesso. Ed infatti i saggi fanno luce su 
entrambi gli aspetti del pensiero pirandelliano. “Il guardaroba dell’eloquenza,” in 
particolare, sviluppa un parallelo interessante tra i “retori’ in campo letterario e quelli 
politici. Questi ultimi tendono ad analizzare i fatti quotidiani alla luce di concetti 
“astratti” quali, ad esempio, la lotta di classe. Il “vero” uomo politico, invece, analizza 1 
fatti sempre in modo pragmatico, immergendosi per cosi dire in essi. Da una parte 
avremmo un’opera politica (e letteraria) viva, in cui Vita e Forma (il binomio caro a 
Tilgher) si compenetrano felicemente, dando luogo a soluzioni politiche e letterarie 
vincenti. Nell’opera dei “retori” invece, sia politici che letterari, la vita, cioé il fatto reale, 
contingente, si verrebbe a cristallizzare nell’astrattezza di una forma, senza trovare una 
vera soluzione né artistica né politica. Il saggio pirandelliano ricicla nella prima parte 
nozioni gia sviluppate nel saggio sull’umorismo, ma contiene anche nuove ed importanti 
considerazioni di ordine politico, che rispecchiano |’ideologia fascista che |’autore aveva 
abbracciato coscientemente in quegli anni. Il guardaroba dell’eloquenza infatti diventa, 
nella seconda parte del saggio, una metafora per l’ideologia socialista, colpevole di 
applicare, come il retore fa nel campo letterario, le dottrine del marxismo--ritenute dal 


Italian Bookshelf 419 


Siciliano forme ormai morte--alla realta politica contemporanea, che invece avrebbe 
bisogno di quel vitalismo pragmatista che secondo |’autore era caratteristico di Mussolini. 
Il saggio pi bello della serie, forse perché di tono scherzoso pur nel suo intento 
polemico, mi é€ parso “La fiera della sapienza,” in cui Pirandello difende la sua 
spontaneita poetica, per questo aspetto simile ai bambini, contro quei critici che 
tendevano a leggere le sue opere in chiave quasi esclusivamente filosofica. Tutti e tre i 
Saggi riproposti nel volume riconfermano la tecnica tipica di Pirandello, che tendeva 
sempre a riciclare idee e talvolta interi paragrafi di saggi precedenti. Lo stesso succede 
anche in questi articoli degli anni venti, come mostra Paola Casella nelle sue note, che 
rimandano con precisione a saggi scritti da Pirandello quindici 0 venti anni prima. 

La terza parte del libro Paola Casella raccoglie un gran numero di recensioni critiche 
dell’opera di Pirandello. Un lavoro di notevole importanza, in quanto le bibliografie 
critiche pirandelliane riportano pochissime recensioni pubblicate prima della meta degli 
anni dieci, quando Pirandello comincia ad assumere una fama notevole, grazie soprattutto 
alle sue opere teatrali. Il paziente lavoro di ricerca dell’autrice, condotto sui periodici 
dell’epoca, rivela invece che gia a partire dagli inizi della sua carriera letteraria Pirandello 
era recensito frequentemente da giornali e riviste talvolta assai autorevoli, quali La Nuova 
Antologia e Il Marzocco. Dopo la pubblicazione del Fu Mattia Pascal, Pirandello viene 
indicato come uno dei principali novellieri italiani, e gli studi critici si intensificano 
sempre pit. L’attenzione dei critici verte in modo dominante sull’aspetto “umoristico” 
della sua opera narrativa, anche se la definizione di umorismo appare spesso confusa, 
almeno finché Pirandello stesso non la chiarira nel suo famoso saggio del 1908. Sara 
proprio la pubblicazione dell’ Umorismo ad attirare contro Pirandello le critiche pit dure, 
a partire da quella di Croce. Sempre piu spesso, dopo questa data, l’opera di Pirandello 
verra accusata di eccessiva schematicita nell’applicazione delle teorie umoristiche, che 
determinerebbero un ripetersi continuo delle stesse soluzioni narrative. Ma la ragione pit 
profonda per cui critici maggiori, quali Borgese, si levano contro Pirandello é la 
mancanza di “idealita” che staturisce dal corrosivo umorismo dello scrittore siciliano. Il 
romanzo, assai atteso dalla critica, J vecchi e i giovani, pubblicato alla vigilia della 
seconda guerra mondiale, é condannato dalla maggior parte dei critici contemporanei per 
l’eccessivo pessimismo o scetticismo, due aggettivi che contrastano fortemente con il 
clima di revival nazionalistico di quegli anni. Una simile accoglienza sara riservata ai 
Quaderni di Serafino Gubbio, del 1916. Per quanto la “Giunta alla bibliografia critica 
pirandelliana” proposta dall’autrice arrivi fino al 1936, l’analisi della ricezione critica 
compiuta da Paola Caselli si ferma al 1916, anno in cui Pirandello comincia a dedicarsi 
piu intensamente all’attivita teatrale, che lo forzera a limitare notevolmente la sua attivita 
novellistica, che come sappiamo era da lui prediletta. 

Vorrei concludere questa breve nota sottolineando da una parte il grande valore 
filologico del volume qui recensito, dall’altra incoraggiando anche coloro che per la 
filologia non hanno molta simpatia a leggere il volume di Paola Casella, ed in particolare 
i saggi che accompagnano gli apparati complementari: vi troveranno osservazioni e 
spunti critici estremamente interessanti, a dimostrazione che la buona critica letteraria 
non puo mai prescindere da una solida base semantica e filologica. 


Tullio Pagano, Dickinson College 


420 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Daniela Bini. Pirandello and His Muse. The Plays for Marta Abba. Gainesville: UP, 
1998. Pp. xvi + 230. 


As Daniela Bini points out in her Preface and Acknowledgments, this book is the 
culmination of several years of research and reflection on Pirandello’s artistic treatment 
of women. It concentrates mostly on Pirandello’s relationship with the actress Marta 
Abba and the later plays he dedicated to her. Though she cites other critics, Bini bases her 
views largely on the published correspondence between the Maestro and his young muse. 

In the Introduction, “The Burden of Tradition,’ Bini explains what she considers 
certain inherited beliefs that influenced Pirandello’s work. She points out that since all 
the raisonneurs in Pirandello’s plays are males, he obviously considered reason to be an 
exclusive attribute of the male, whereas nature and instinct are in the female sphere. In 
developing her argument, Bini repeats the radical feminist contention that procreation is 
exclusive to women. That is true, of course, only in the narrowest sense. Other 
inaccuracies: Bini states that Catholic tradition condemns the flesh, but strictly speaking 
it only censures the sins of the flesh. She also asserts that in Catholic tradition the central 
figure becomes the Virgin Mary, an assumption that is simply not true, since the 
preeminence of Christ has never been in doubt. 

In the biographical section Bini discusses the contents of letters Pirandello sent to 
his wife Antonietta, his daughter Lietta, and his protégée Marta Abba. Here and 
elsewhere in the work, Bini speaks of the “psychological blackmail” that Pirandello 
employed against these women for personal gain. 

In the following section, “The Liberation of Art,” the critic initially focuses on 
Pirandello’s male characters, who use and abuse reason and constantly question the 
power of words. The Sicilian dramatist, however, expresses faith in language that is 
honest and authentic. Bini then analyzes Pirandello’s female characters, who are not 
bound by the strictures of logic yet understand and communicate in original ways. In 
Bini’s opinion, “Pirandello intimately identified with women, and therefore succeeded in 
creating psychologically profound and complex female characters” (15). 

In Chapter 1, “Woman, the Platonic Ideal: Tuda and ‘Marta,’” Bini describes the 
first play Pirandello wrote for Marta, Diana e la Tuda. In this 1926 work Tuda represents 
Marta and both male characters, young Sirio and old Giuncano, represent Pirandello. As 
Bini sees it, Pirandello and Marta, his muse, created together new characters, new works, 
and in a word gave birth to new life. 

L’amica delle mogli, 1927, was the second play Pirandello wrote for Marta. 
The protagonist herself is named Marta. It seems that in having conceived a strong 
character such as Marta, Pirandello believed in the power of woman as a superior being. 
Incidentally, in a short digression, Bini, with an excessively vivid imagination and 
alluding to the erotic protagonist in a famous short story by Giovanni Verga, points out 
that the photograph of Marta Abba for years on Pirandello’s desk resembled that of a she- 
wolf. That portrait, published in Album di famiglia di Luigi Pirandello, a work edited by 
the Sicilian author’s granddaughter (not “great-granddaughter” [6], as Bini once calls her) 
is really not much different from the ones that appear on pp. 24 and 173 of the 
monograph under review. 

In Chapter 2, “Woman, the Earth Mother: La Spera and Sara,” Bini discusses myths 
as escapism. Here she also states that the first two myths Pirandello wrote for Marta are 


Italian Bookshelf 421 


“a celebration of the feminine” (62). The first one, La nuova colonia, 1928, is a metaphor 
of his identification with the mother figure, La Spera, who is a sort of Earth Mother. The 
second one, Lazzaro, 1929, has as its protagonist Sara, who also can be seen as an Earth 
Mother. In both dramas Marta Abba starred in the leading role. 

In Chapter 3, “Woman’s Refusal of Roles, L’Ignota,” Bini characterizes Pirandello’s 
relationship with Marta. In Bini’s opinion, Marta was his spiritual wife. In fact, the 
original title of the critic’s monograph was: “My Muse, My Bride” (xiii). Bini also 
reveals how Pirandello used psychological blackmail to have Marta write to him in 
Berlin, where he was composing Come tu mi vuoi. The critic then repeats Pirandello’s 
childbirth metaphor to explain how “the artist conceives and gives birth, but the 
fertilization process is accomplished by the muse” (101). By making Marta part and 
parcel of the creative process, Pirandello supposedly overcame the division between mind 
and body, and between the sexes. 

Chapter 4, “Woman as Creator,” contains a discussion of Pirandello’s letters from 
Berlin and Paris to Marta. She, a young woman associated with Pirandello, was an easy 
target for critics, and therefore Pirandello encouraged her and strengthened her resolve to 
perfect her art. According to Bini, by 1930 she had become a collaborator of the author 
or, better yet, her task was that of continuing the creative process. That her collaboration 
with Pirandello was substantive is, in my opinion, grossly exaggerated, despite what the 
Sicilian author himself, who was hopelessly in love, tried to make Marta believe. 

The critic then touches upon / giganti della montagna, Pirandello’s unfinished play. 
The plot centers on the clash between a spiritual world (that of the theater) and the 
materialistic world of today. Bini here opines that Pirandello never completed the work, 
in order perhaps to put off his own end. Pirandello says in his letters that Marta is 
creating and Bini echoes that the woman, the dramatist’s inspiration, was the real creator 
of several of the Sicilian author’s works. As Bini writes, “J giganti can be read as the 
sublimation of Pirandello’s eroticism and the metaphor of procreation as artistic creation” 
(132). Marta herself seems to have believed (or perhaps wanted others to believe) that she 
co-authored the play. In fact, she later told the world that “the work was the fruit of 
collaboration, that of two spirits united by the same love — the love for each other through 
their higher love for art” (134). 

In Chapter 5, “Woman as Actress; Freedom in Acting: Sgombero and Trovarsi,” 
Bini focuses on the last plays written for Marta and considers them a literary sublimation 
of Pirandello’s eroticism. According to her, Pirandello was now creating with Marta the 
central character of Trovarsi (1932). The leading character is Donata Genzi, who 
represents Marta. Both character and actress live for art, with art triumphing over life. 

The final chapter, “The Disruption of Form: ‘Non conclude...,’” discusses Non si sa 
come, 1934, Pirandello’s last play, based on three short stories, each of which dealing 
with the woman’s issue and two of which written as early as 1913 and 1914, respectively. 
Bini therefore admits that “Marta Abba certainly helped him to concentrate his reflections 
and analysis of woman’s nature and role, but all through his life the female psyche and 
social condition had been central to his writing . . .”(171). 

In the concluding pages, “An Afterthought,” Bini points out that the scope of this 
study was to separate Pirandello the man from Pirandello the artist and to show how the 
latter redeems the former. As Bini understands the situation, Pirandello appropriated 
metaphorically the power of woman and gave birth to immortal works. Bini maintains 
that the published missives are important “because they show the metamorphosis of 


422 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Pirandello the man into Pirandello the artist — an androgynous artist who could 
understand, share, and suffer not only with Marta the actress but also with women per se” 
(190). 

Although the book is largely a translation, a reworking and development of Bini’s 
former writings on Pirandello, originally in Italian, it displays on the whole rather good 
English. Nevertheless, possible hints of the critic’s Italian origin are such minor errors as 
“Maria Magdalen” (69) and “re-evoked” (211), the ipercorrezioni “Hyppolitus” (200n) 
and “Dyonisian” (206), as well as the strange rendering of “Sta di 1a [...]” as “Get off 
[...]” (70). I also find “The Wheel-barrow” (206n2) erroneously hyphenated. Among 
other misspellings, probably attributable to the typist or typesetter, are several German 
words, e.g., “Schuspielhaus” (112) instead of Schauspielhaus and “Koenisberg” (115) 
instead of Koenigsberg. 

In conclusion, despite the book’s various shortcomings referred to above, I 
recommend the work as a notable example of the innovative studies of Pirandello’s later 
works that began after 1986, when Marta Abba donated to Princeton the several hundred 
letters she had received from her beloved mentor. In its attempt to reconstruct an 
important period of Pirandellian history, this publication provides much food for thought, 
if one can ignore the extreme feminist rhetoric that occasionally mars the author’s 
otherwise persuasive reasoning. 

Giovanni R. Bussino, Burbank, California 


Robert S. C. Gordon. Pasolini: Forms of Subjectivity. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 
1996. Pp. xii + 324. 


Despite the vast criticism on Pasolini, and despite the profoundly interdisciplinary nature 
of his work, few critics have sought to analyze the interconnections linking his 
experimental forays in so many diverse media. The challenge in reading Pasolini, 
therefore, has become to understand him whole, to try to grapple with the textual traces 
of his forays into so many diverse areas. Beginning in the 1980s, Italian scholars such as 
Franco Brevini, Rinaldo Rinaldi, and Guido Santato produced large-scale monographic 
studies which attempted to interpret Pasolini’s oeuvre in its entirety for an Italian 
audience. Now, Robert S. C. Gordon’s admirable Pasolini: Forms of Subjectivity 
synthesizes, builds upon, and extends the earlier Italian scholarship, as well as the vast 
critical commentary that has emerged in recent years in Anglo-American circles, to 
provide English-language readers, scholars, and critics a fresh, penetrating view of 
Pasolini. Surpassing his “preliminary aim to qualify the dominant approaches to his 
work,” Gordon proves himself to be the kind of eclectic reader and theoretically astute 
critic that Pasolini’s multifaceted oeuvre demands. His strategy of pursuing the “work of 
subjectivity” in three different areas — journalism, poetry, and cinema — provides rich 
insights as Gordon traces and retraces the by-now familiar contours of Pasolini’s career 
into intriguing new patterns. 

The book focuses on “the processes of self-construction” and subjectivity that are at 
work in various aspects of Pasolini’s vast output and is divided into four parts, which in 
turn are further subdivided into chapters. Each part is introduced by a brief overview and 
declaration of intentions. This structure functions very well in organizing the diverse 


Italian Bookshelf 423 


materials involved. It also may prove to be useful to those (less than ideal) readers who 
may not be interested in following the argument of the entire book, while seeking to 
ascertain Gordon’s perspective on a particular aspect of Pasolini’s production. 

Part one deals with Pasolini’s strategies of self-representation and the logic of his 
development as a public intellectual. His participation in various intellectual/literary 
circles, his involvement with literary/cultural journals, and his contributions to various 
newspapers over the course of his career trace the trajectory of Pasolini’s “evolution from 
provincial, romanticizing young poet to Roman intellectual, film-director, and notorious 
polemicist” (11). Gordon’s emphasis on the central role of subjectivity during every 
phase of this itinerary proves to be very useful and provides new insights into Pasolini’s 
work. According to Gordon, Pasolini’s “laying bare of the self in a public arena became 
the dominant paradigm of his activity, and its rhetoric is of central importance in 
understanding his role as a cultural operator” (11). The three chapters of this section 
succeed admirably in analyzing the interplay between subjectivity and history in 
Pasolini’s public pronouncements and his position-taking on a variety of matters. 

Part two focuses on Pasolini’s poetry, which Gordon perceptively characterizes as 
being primarily dedicated to “the exploration of problems and anxieties of subjectivity . . 
. driven by the construction of multiple and simultaneous masquerades of self- 
inscription” (89). Gordon identifies four different patterns or tropes through which the 
work of subjectivity in Pasolini’s poetry is elaborated: the autobiographical subject; 
history, or an idea of history; figures of identification; and what Gordon calls “the dual 
figuration of the father and of the body” (88). In this section, and indeed, throughout the 
book, the late Franco Fortini serves as Gordon’s chief interlocutor. Building on a number 
of Fortini’s seminal observations, Gordon’s readings of Pasolini’s poetry provide some of 
the book’s most important insights. He takes us further than any other critic has to date in 
understanding its development in relation to Pasolini’s other activities. Gordon’s 
extensive knowledge of the poetic texts allows him to reveal “the eccentric patterns of 
autobiography at work” (90) therein. Furthermore, his clear exposition of the critical 
tradition surrounding the poetry establishes points of reference from which scholars 
might wish to depart in future studies. 

Arriving at Pasolini’s film work after an insightful retracing of his development as a 
literary intellectual and cultural operator, and an extensive analysis of the poetry, Gordon 
approaches the cinema on its own terms. Yet the third section of the book, devoted to 
cinema, gains from the cumulative effect of the preceding chapters. Pasolini’s vision of 
cinema contains “versions of the tropes of his poetry — autobiography, history, projective 
self-figuration, the body — and the equally familiar struggle to take on his medium, ‘never 
to be afraid of where he is speaking’” (189). In this way, the critic brings the insights 
garnered in the other two realms to bear on the film work and the results are significant. 
Six interlocking aspects of film discourse are analyzed as channels which carry the work 
of subjectivity: authority and inscription; style and technique; genesis and intertextuality; 
metaphor; being and film-time; and spectatorship. By “tracking the subject” through 
these discourses, Gordon is able to establish fruitful analogies and parallel movements 
between cinema, poetry, and Pasolini’s later journalism. More important, he is able to 
bring a new perspective to bear on the film work itself. 

Gordon finds two impulses at work in Pasolini’s turn to the cinema in the early 
1960s: one is in part a self-proclaimed “cynical move,” an attempt to overcome an 
impasse in his literary work and to expand his range as a public intellectual; the other 


424 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


impulse is, in Gordon’s terms, “utopian,” as it involves “reaching out for an absolute of 
expression and representation” (190). It is here that Gordon breaks new ground in 
interpreting Pasolini’s cinema because he is able to demonstrate that “these two impulses, 
whose interaction conditions the nature of all his work, in film and elsewhere, after 1960, 
are fraught with difficulty, indeed are radically irreconcilable. . . . To track the subject of 
film in Pasolini is to track contours of anxiety” (190). 

The fourth and final part, “Unfinished Endings,” develops a close reading of 
Pasolini’s unfinished fragmentary novel Petrolio in light of the work of subjectivity. 
Because Pasolini framed his own return to prose as “an enquiry into subjectivity,” 
Gordon argues that Petrolio “provides a vertiginous array of textual and discursive 
features to confirm, qualify, and re-articulate what has already been discerned in his 
journalism, poetry, and cinema” (268). From Gordon’s perspective, the unfinished 
fragmentary nature of the text is not a hindrance, but indeed offers an opportunity to 
study the work of subjectivity under construction. As he argues, “if the sheer weight of 
unwritten material means that Petrolio cannot be the ‘summa’ Pasolini dreamed of, it can 
be read as notes towards a synthesis and summary of the work of subjectivity in his 
oeuvre” (268). Gordon’s reading is indeed persuasive and it serves a dual purpose as final 
chapter and conclusion. Thus, his analysis of Petrolio re-enforces and re-articulates the 
book’s earlier findings by locating their continuing dynamic presence in the unfinished 
novel. 

Avoiding the tendency toward reduction found in much Anglo-American work on 
Pasolini, Gordon’s reading of Petrolio demonstrates its relationship to what has come 
before, but also emphasizes its ruptures. “While restating and re-imagining the material 
and insights of Salod and La nuova gioventu (and much of Scritti corsari and Lettere 
luterane), Petrolio draws away from the annihilation and aphasia that the latter enact and 
opens up prospects of new forms, new registers, and new histories” (292). In a similar 
fashion, Gordon’s treatment of subjectivity in Pasolini makes it possible to return to his 
works with deeper insight. Given its synthesis of the scholarship involved, and the 
persuasiveness of its interpretive moves, this book will no doubt stand as a defining 
perspective on Pasolini for many years to come. 

John P. Welle, University of Notre Dame 


Cristina Della Colletta. Plotting the Past. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1996. Pp. vii + 
268. 

Alba Amoia. 20th-Century Italian Women Writers. Carbondale: Southern Illinois 
UP, 1996. Pp. vii + 189. 


Per coloro che si interessano della riscrittura della Storia e delle differenze e/o 
somiglianze tra Storia e narrativa il libro di Cristina Della Colletta costituira una lettura 
estremamente proficua. Plotting the Past é un saggio elegante e forbito, scritto in una 
prosa lucida e precisa dalla solida base critica. I] substrato teorico di questo volume, 
infatti, si alimenta di tutti i pil significativi pensatori del nostro secolo: da Foucault a 
Barthes, da Adorno a Ricoeur, da Bakhtin a Kermode, da White a Girard ecc. Siamo di 
fronte a un lavoro di scavo testuale, ma soprattutto di indagine dialogica col testo, 
giacché |’autrice via via si pone quesiti che rivelano un’accurata capacita di introspezione 


Italian Bookshelf 425 


critica, e allo stesso tempo conducono il lettore attraverso il mondo labirintico del 
discorso testuale a mo’ di filo di Arianna. L’opera in questione si presenta quindi come 
un lavoro seminale sul romanzo storico, nel senso che apre tutta una serie di orizzonti 
critici e di nuove possibilita di ricerca sulle quali questo genere letterario potrebbe 
prosperare, e mi riferisco a scrittori come Sciascia, Vassalli, Tabucchi, Pazzi, ecc. 

Nell’introduzione, la Della Colletta, parlando dell’enorme fortuna del romanzo 
storico sulla scia della popolarita de J promessi sposi, considera il capolavoro 
manzoniano come il modello classico di quel genere letterario che ha dato vita ad una 
serie numerosissima di imitazioni, che di rimando hanno contribuito alla canonizzazione 
del genere stesso. Tuttavia, la scelta del critico si orienta su tre romanzi — // gattopardo di 
Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa, La Storia di Elsa Morante e // nome della rosa di 
Umberto Eco — considerati esemplari, in quanto portatori di un discorso critico che 
iniziato con Manzoni nel suo Del romanzo storico si interroga su problemi di estetica e di 
filosofia e sul significato dello scrivere all’interno del genere. Tre opere le suddette che, 
partecipando all’evoluzione del canone, allo stesso tempo ne creano una mappa del suo 
sviluppo storico. Eco, Lampedusa e la Morante, allargando i confini del genere e 
sottolineando la specificita storica e culturale della voce narrante nei rispettivi romanzi, 
dimostrano che l’unico approccio valido alla teoria dei generi é quello di colui che si 
pone consciamente all’interno delle dinamiche storiche del sistema letterario e lo 
considera come un qualcosa in continuo sviluppo e cambiamento. 

Procedendo diacronicamente, il primo capitolo offre un’accurata analisi del dibattito 
tra Classicisti e Romantici e tratteggia le posizioni critiche di Zaiotti, Mazzini, 
Tommaseo e di Manzoni. Esaminando De/ romanzo storico, la Della Colletta fa notare 
che Manzoni nega la possibilita della coesistenza di Storia e narrativa all’interno di uno 
stesso genere. Secondo Manzoni il discorso storico e quello narrativo sono distinti, l’uno 
ha radici nel mondo empirico e fattuale, l’altro nell’universale e nel trascendente. 
Tuttavia, J promessi sposi rimangono un modello di romanzo storico tuttora valido, anche 
nel caso in cui il lettore contemporaneo non ne condivida la prospettiva provvidenziale. 
Non bisogna dimenticare, infatti, che, secondo la Della Colletta, il capolavoro 
manzoniano narra di personaggi socialmente marginali, di coloro che da sempre sono 
stati esclusi dalla grande Storia, e quindi denuncia implicitamente |’autorita della Storia 
ufficiale scritta dalle classi dominanti per le classi dominanti. 

Nel capitolo secondo, |’autrice fornisce un resoconto del violento dibattito culturale 
scatenatosi dopo la pubblicazione de // gattopardo tra gli intellettuali dell’epoca, 
inserendolo nel clima critico-politico dell’Italia degli anni cinquanta. La Della Colletta 
afferma che il romanzo di Lampedusa porta avanti il discorso manzoniano 
approfondendo gli schemi ideologici e psicologici che si intrecciano nella configurazione 
del passato storico. Abbinando la costruzione del passato fatta dal narratore onnisciente 
con quella del protagonista del romanzo (Don Fabrizio, Principe di Salina) // gattopardo 
dimostra come la riconfigurazione del passato non sia mai neutrale o oggettiva, ma 
piuttosto vittima della soggettivita e della posizione storica dei suoi interpreti. Una 
quantita di strati temporali si superimpone nel romanzo: il tempo lineare dell’evento 
storico, il tempo personale delle memoria del protagonista, il non-tempo geografico 
dell’immutabilita dei luoghi, di una Sicilia mitica, e il tempo a posteriori della 
ricostruzione del narratore onnisciente. Il protagonista Don Fabrizio é immerso in un 
mondo in rapido cambiamento, quello deli’Unificazione d'Italia, e a differenza del 
narratore é incapace di afferrare e capire gli eventi a pieno, quindi la sua visione della 


426 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Storia é diversa da quella del narratore; la sua visione é quella di una “Storia in fieri”, 
parziale e frammentaria, che resiste ad ogni tentativo di organizzazione, mentre quella del 
narratore é un “fare la Storia”, ovvero una riorganizzazione a posteriori degli eventi 
accaduti. Questa doppia ricostruzione crea un doppio effetto, da parte del Principe 
abbiamo un’esperienza storica che percepisce ricorsi e ripetizioni nella catena degli 
eventi contemporanei; dall’altra uno schema logico di progressione causale, e di 
conseguenza un narratore che manifesta il punto di vista privilegiato di colui che 
ricostruisce gli eventi, mentre il protagonista manifesta la crisi sia individuale che della 
classe sociale a cui appartiene in un momento storico di transizione. 

Nonostante la struttura formale de // gattopardo segua la progressione temporale di 
un cinquantennio, la maggior parte dei capitoli narra di eventi che accadono in due anni, 
e tra alcuni capitoli esistono “buchi” temporali di molti anni. I! romanzo percid esibisce 
una struttura episodica, giacché i capitoli non seguono una progressione cronologica 
precisa. Inoltre, la voce narrante, attraverso commenti personali, ironie, informazioni 
prolettiche e extradiegetiche, stabilisce uno stretto legame tra gli eventi passati e la loro 
organizzazione e interpretazione presente. Grazie a questo arrangiamento strutturale, 
Lampedusa mette in evidenza la natura soggettiva implicita in ogni ricostruzione storica: 
il narratore onnisciente come “storico ideale” finisce con l’essere incapace di dare una 
rappresentazione completa degli eventi storici, e fornisce solo un’immagine storica 
parziale, frammentaria, provvisoria, un “punto di vista” insomma. // gattopardo mette 
quindi in discussione la possibilita di accedere al referente storico, il passato come 
“veramente” era rimane assente. Ma questo vuoto puo essere riempito da cid che alcuni 
interpreti evocano dal loro coinvolgimento emotivo e soggettivo con gli eventi trascorsi, 
cosicché |’eredita culturale di intere comunita sul punto di essere travolte dalla Storia pud 
essere salvata. 

Il capitolo terzo ritorna al problema della conoscenza del passato, alla possibilita di 
rendere gli eventi come “veramente” sono accaduti, anche se ne La Storia la Morante 
critica il concetto di verita storica, denunciando le omissioni e i silenzi della Storia 
ufficiale. La narrativa diventa per la Morante l’unica legittima alternativa alla 
storiografia: raccontando le storie di coloro che non entrano a far parte della 
documentazione storica, la scrittrice implicitamente denuncia la Storia ufficiale come un 
mezzo per mantenere i sistemi di potere esistenti e per emarginare coloro che non ne 
fanno parte, come i bambini e le donne. Nel romanzo morantiano le sezioni storiche 
danno un resoconto degli eventi politici, mentre le parti narrative danno spazio ad una 
voce femminile che attua una revisione del discorso storiografico patriarcale. Come i 
personaggi di Manzoni, anche i personaggi della Morante sono antieroi, sono umili e 
passive vittime della Storia. Nel caso della Morante perd la dicotomia tra Storia ufficiale 
(la Seconda Guerra Mondiale e |’immediato dopoguerra) e la storia della povera maestra, 
vedova con figli, che vive in un misero quartiere romano, testimonia la volonta 
dell’autrice di reinscrivere le donne nella Storia. L’opposizione manzoniana tra Storia e 
narrativa diventa per lei l’opposizione tra due diverse identita sessuali: da una parte la 
Storia colonizzata nel nome del padre, dall’altra il continente femminile da sempre 
assente. Ma l’assenza delle donne dalla Storia riguarda solo la Storia erudita, empirica, 
esclusivamente interessata alle azioni, alle conquiste e alle disfatte dei capi di stato, dei 
militari, dei ministri ecc. La Storia cosi concepita si occupa solo dei rapidi e visibili 
cambiamenti, non di quello che appare stabile, ciclico, soggetto a cambiamento graduale, 


Italian Bookshelf 427 


quello cioé che appare come una serie graduale e quasi impercettibile di cambiamenti 
rimane nello sfondo. 

La Della Colletta sottolinea che la Morante gia con la scelta del titolo del suo libro, 
La Storia: romanzo, apre diverse possibilita di lettura, in quanto tale scelta non solo 
dichiara che la Storia ufficiale é una narrativa, ma anche che la sua narrativa é Storia. 
Poiché La Storia separa polemicamente la parte cronachistica dalla parte narrativa, la 
Della Colletta conclude che a causa della sua brutalita la Storia diventa il terreno 
dell’“irrealta”, mentre la verita si trova dalla parte dell’invenzione narrativa. La realta 
“fittizia,” infatti, contiene verita poetiche e storiche, che si rivelano nel raccontare di 
come bambini, povere donne e altri emarginati sopportano, sopravvivono e a loro modo 
sfidano |’ordine dominante. Il romanzo storico per la Morante acquista un fondamentale 
valore politico: é il mezzo per raccontare le storie vere che la storiografia ufficiale ha 
dimenticato o si rifiuta di raccontare, ed é il punto di partenza della liberazione della 
donna nel mondo storico. 

La Storia, inoltre, rivaluta l’esperienza privata a scapito di quella pubblica. La voce 
narrante non é solo dichiaratamente femminile, ma, nonostante sia una voce esterna, 
partecipa emotivamente agli avvenimenti dei personaggi e commenta con empatia su di 
loro, dimostrando di avere una conoscenza assoluta delle loro emozioni. Tale voce perd 
limita i propri commenti nelle parti storiche, riportando gli eventi storici in modo 
rigidamente cronachistico e cronologico. Per la Della Colletta siamo di fronte ad un caso 
di narratore onnisciente particolare, un narratore che sa tutto riguardo |’ esistenza interiore 
dei personaggi, ma che ignora la realta degli eventi storici. II tipo di storia psicologico- 
narrativa che la Morante crea in questo modo é rivoluzionario nel senso che mostra 
l’impatto della Storia sulla vita psico-emotiva dei personaggi, smantella l’opposizione tra 
storia pubblica e storia privata e dimostra che anche personaggi comuni possono 
diventare soggetti storici. 

Ne La Storia una monumentale, ciclica e intersoggetiva nozione del tempo altera la 
nozione lineare, ovvero la nozione di un continuum storico che appare come una 
successione causale di eventi politici. Il tono utopico e profetico della fine del romanzo 
invoca un mondo migliore per tutte le donne e la voce narrante infine, ingaggiata in un 
rapporto soggettivo, creativo, emotivo, non-onnisciente con il passato, sfida apertamente 
l’impersonalita e l’oggettivita del discorso storico tradizionale. 

Nell’ultimo capitolo del libro, la Della Colletta si occupa de // nome della rosa di 
Umberto Eco. II romanzo storico con Eco diventa metaromanzo, un genere problematico 
che critica i propri fondamenti epistemologici, che analizza i valori e i limiti della 
narrativa come modo di articolare la nostra conoscenza del mondo e che esplora le 
possibilita di definire il vero all’interno dei sistemi usati per la ricostruzione del passato. 
Partendo da una ricostruzione del passato critico di Eco, dalla sua adesione al Gruppo 63, 
alle sue diverse teorizzazioni sull’arte in Opera aperta, Apocalittici e integrati e 
Almanacco Bompiani, la Della Colletta argomenta che il romanzo di Eco é tanto un 
romanzo storico quanto una discussione sui metodi della narrativa storiografica. Eco ha 
scelto come matrice narrativa del suo racconto la Bibbia e in particolare |’ Apocalisse, in 
quanto entrambe sono sia presenze tematiche che principi strutturali del suo romanzo. // 
nome della rosa, infatti, esibisce un prologo e un epilogo che contengono un testo 
organizzato secondo una progressione cronologica di sette giorni e di sette successive 
rivelazioni. Per di pit, dal punto di vista tematico, il romanzo tratta di un periodo storico 
di transizione, l’apice della lotta tra Papato e Impero, e del momento della 


428 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


frammentazione di tali sistemi: la chiesa lotta contro i poteri temporali, all’interno 
dell’ordine francescano lottano i Conventuali e gli Sprituali ecc. Adso, il benedettino che 
narra la storia, percepisce il mondo come qualcosa che é sull’orlo dell’abisso. Ma il 
modello apocalittico basato come nella Bibbia sulla perfetta adesione tra eventi e tempo 
che Eco usa, viene smantellato dalla presenza di Adso come narratore. Costui promette 
una pura cronaca dei fatti, secondo la successione cronologica dei giorni, suddivisa 
secondo le ore canoniche dell’abbazia, ma in realta Adso fa uso di una memoria selettiva 
€ soggettiva nella ricostruzione degli eventi, spesso contaminata da forti implicazioni 
culturali e ideologiche. 

La Della Colleta sottolinea che, oltre al modello apocalittico-biblico apertamente 
sovvertito da Eco, lo scrittore organizza il suo racconto sfruttando anche lo schema 
lineare della detective story. All’interno del mondo chiuso dell’ Abbazia, all’interno di un 
ordine stabilito da leggi fisse, un evento, appunto il delitto, scatena il disordine. Ma 
l’indagine del detective William of Baskerville, non é solo una ricerca del colpevole, 
bensi un’indagine sui metodi razionali della conoscenza. Seguace di Occam, 
dell’empirismo di Bacone, William confronta il mondo con diverse possibilita 
interpretative, rifiutando ogni idea a priori, e in questo avvicinandosi alla problematica 
filosofica dell’uomo contemporaneo, combattuto tra il declino dei valori assoluti, la fine 
delle ideologie forti, la molteplicita delle verita. Secondo la Della Colleta, Eco, come gia 
Foucault, Adorno e Horkheimer prima di lui, vuole con la sua scrittura rammentare al 
lettore che la forza coercitiva della razionalita pud diventare una tendenza pericolosa in 
quanto spesso implica l’esclusione, il rifiuto o il silenzio su tutte quelle forme 
dell’esperienza che non possono essere organizzate in costruzioni sistematiche. Rivisitare 
il passato diventa per Eco un modo per capire meglio il presente. I] romanzo storico, in 
quest’ ottica, apre un dialogo con il passato che promuove una ricerca epistemologica nel 
presente. I concetti di identita, causalita e ordine narrativo sui quali si fonda il discorso 
storiografico vengono messi a confronto da Eco con la struttura dialogica, polifonica e 
“citazionistica” del discorso carnevalesco e quindi entrambi entrano in un corto circuito 
di reciproca decostruzione. 

Per quanto riguarda la struttura formale di Plotting the Past vogliamo sottolineare 
che il volume é corredato di ottime note e di un’altrettanto buona bibliografia, e non 
presenta alcun refuso. In conclusione, vorrei aggiungere che nel caso di Plotting the Past, 
ci si augura che presto |’autrice si occupi ancora del romanzo storico. 

L’altro volume che vorrei presentare brevemente é quello della Amoia, intitolato 
20"-Century Italian Women Writers in cui si tratta di undici scrittrici italiane: Grazia 
Deledda, Sibilla Aleramo, Lalla Romano, Elsa Morante, Natalia Ginzburg, Rosetta Loy, 
Dacia Maraini, Matilde Serao, Oriana Fallaci e Camilla Cederna. I] volume é diviso in 
nove capitoletti e, nella sua brevita, in tutto poco pit di un centinaio di pagine, offre un 
sommario alquanto generale delle autrici in questione e delle relative opere. Data la 
brevita dei capitoli e la vastita del materiale trattato, il libro della Amoia finisce per 
essere uno studio introduttivo che fornisce utili informazioni sulle scrittrici e giornaliste, 
ma che non riesce ad analizzare in profondita l’opus di nessuna delle figure prese in 
esame. II] volume potrebbe essere un testo ideale per un corso introduttivo undergraduate 
sulle undici scrittrici e anche lo stile, scorrevole e informativo, si presta ad una facile 
lettura. 

Flavia Brizio-Skov, University of Tennessee 


Italian Bookshelf 429 


Giorgio Cavallini. Montale lettore di Dante e altri studi montaliani. Roma: Bulzoni, 
1996. 


Libro, oserei perd quasi dire libretto, non nel senso operistico del termine ma in quanto 
libro abbozzato con scarsi contenuti critici: ovvero breve raccolta di studi su Montale, tre 
per precisare, a cui é accodata una serie di note e di noticine sparse e di poco spessore. 
Cavallini ci avverte che questi scritti sono il frutto della sua lunga e fedele esperienza di 
lettore e del volumetto é senz’altro da apprezzare il preambolo dell’autore. Ma entriamo 
ora direttamente nella materia in questione. 

Il primo studio (di circa 25 pagine e il pit lungo) si rifa a un discorso celebrativo su 
Dante tenuto dallo stesso Montale il 24 aprile 1965. Questo discorso é commentato in 
vari punti da Cavallini ed é corredato da ampie note a pie’ di pagina che ci informano del 
dibattito critico che segue |’intervento montaliano. II poeta si chiede coraggiosamente che 
cosa significhi |’opera di Dante per un poeta contemporaneo: una domanda in cui egli 
imposta e accetta un confronto rischioso ma probabilmente necessario con la civilta del 
suo tempo. In tale modo Montale si pone al di 1a del contingente soggettivismo e del 
particolarismo lirico, ripercorrendo un solco_intellettuale-metafisico (e€ i  suoi 
procedimenti espressivi) che persegue nell’ambito novecentesco ed europeo un ideale 
poetico universale ed oggettivo. Ne emerge una concezione figurale della poesia che 
parzialmente avvicina Montale al grande maestro medioevale, e allo stesso tempo 
mantiene perd la consapevolezza di uno storico e progressivo allontanamento 
dall’oggettivismo e razionalismo poetico di Dante. 

Nel secondo studio (di circa dodici pagine) il critico prende in esame “La donna 
barbuta” (1948), una prosa che fa parte della prima parte di Farfalla di Dinard ed é 
dedicata alla vecchia domestica Maria. In questo contesto Cavallini esplora memoria e 
oblio offrendo una visione prospettica dei diversi contributi che interpretano e discutono 
il richiamo memoriale e il suo significato in Montale. II ricordo che risulta dal sondaggio 
critico non é un proustiano ripegamento nostalgico bensi una manifestazione epifanica, 
un’intuizione prodigiosa che riscatta un frammento dell’essere dal nulla dell’assenza: 
l’inevitabile baratro del transitorio. 

Il motivo ontologico riaffiora nel terzo studio dove Cavallini indaga “Il trionfo della 
spazzatura”, una composizione apparsa nel Diario del 71. Qui la spazzatura é assunta a 
simbolo grottesco e universale di una degradazione ambientale ed esistenziale che 
costituisce un bilancio consuntivo del male di vivere. L’ultimo tentativo di salvezza 
auspicato dal poeta rifiuta qualsiasi consolazione trascendente e invita ad abitare il 
mondo senza esserne assimilato, accettando semplicemente di essere vivi e niente di piu. 
Seguono al vaglio alcune riflessioni montaliane sul pil stretto contatto fra prosa e lirica 
nell’ambito novecentesco. 

In appendice troviamo una serie di schede che vengono distribuite dall’autore in tre 
gruppi. Nel primo sono contenute notizie di tipo biografico e informativo dell’opera di 
Montale. Nel secondo sono inclusi dodici commenti di altrettante liriche di Montale 
rappresentative delle raccolte principali. Nell’ultimo gruppo, infine, si trovano brevi 
noticine su Montale a Firenze, |’uso montaliano dell’imperativo, il percorso montaliano 
di uno studioso nordamericano e infine la recensione di uno studio sulla lingua di 


Montale. 
Massimo Maggiari, College of Charleston 


430 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Andrea Zanzotto. Peasants Wake for Fellini’s Casanova and Other Poems. Ed. and 
trans. John P. Welle and Ruth Feldman. Urbana: U of Illinois P, 1997. 


It would be difficult to imagine a more welcome volume for admirers of Zanzotto’s 
poetry (and of dialect poetry as well), born of the fruitful collaboration of two long- 
standing zanzottiani, John Welle and Ruth Feldman. Welle is the author of The Poetry of 
Andrea Zanzotto, and Feldman has co-edited and co-translated Selected Poetry of Andrea 
Zanzotto, two works which already stand as important contributions to the understanding 
and appreciation of Zanzotto’s poetry. It was only natural, and to be hoped for, that they 
should join forces to produce this beautiful new volume, which explores a less-known, 
but not less important, side of the poet’s work. 

Peasants Wake for Fellini’s Casanova and Other Poems (the title is also an homage 
to Joyce’s Finnegans Wake) is a compendium of Zanzotto’s dialect poetry from Filo, 
1976, and Idioma, 1986 (the third book of Zanzotto’s trilogy, which includes Galateo in 
bosco, 1978, and Fosfeni, 1983), with the addition of a small selection of his Italian 
poetry from the late seventies to the present which the editors consider thematically 
cohesive. The volume is prefaced by a solid introduction by John Welle, and contains 
Fellini’s letter to Zanzotto on the film Casanova, the poet’s “Observations on the 
Meaning and the Situation of the Dialects in Italy in the Late Twentieth Century,” and 
helpful notes and commentaries on the poems themselves. 

In 1976, responding to a request by Fellini, Zanzotto wrote his first book of dialect 
poems, Filé per il Casanova di Fellini. “Dear Andrea”, Fellini wrote, “ .. . and now I 
have to dub it, this film which I have shot recklessly in English, and among the many 
problems there is also that of the Veneto dialect . . . I would like to break the opacity, the 
convention of the Veneto dialect which, like all dialects, is frozen in an emotionless and 
tireless cipher, and try to restore freshness to it, render it more alive, penetrating, 
mercurial, keen, giving preferences perhaps to a Ruzantian Veneto dialect or attempting a 
capricious promiscuity between that of Ruzante and the Veneto dialect of Goldoni. Better 
yet, rediscovering archaic forms or indeed inventing phonetic and linguistic combinations 
...” (5). The first part of the book consists of a lively dialogue among workers that takes 
place during the ritual raising of the head of the ancient Venetic goddess Réita from the 
sea, written in a partly invented Venetian dialect of the eighteenth century. The second 
part contains the narrative poem Filo (filo refers to the ancient peasant custom in some 
areas of the Veneto of gathering on winter evening for storytelling and conversation), 
written in Zanzotto’s native solighese dialect. Interestingly, Zanzotto’s initial interest in 
dialect poetry coincides with the revival of dialect poetry which began in the early 
seventies and which has had an unprecedented blossoming in the last twenty years, both 
in quantity and quality, becoming one of the most significant movement in Italian 
literature in recent times, generally known as neodialect poetry. His involvement with 
dialects continued in the eighties with the publication of /dioma, the last book of his 
trilogy, a tribute to the ancient civilization of his region (but of all Italian regions as well) 
which has now vanished, but also a long meditation on the nature and meaning of 
language itself. “In Peasants’ Wake and Other Poems,” Welle notes in the introduction, 
“Zanzotto explores the link between language and identity, subverts stereotypical 
attitudes toward dialect, and poeticizes the mystery of human speech itself” (x). In fact, 


Italian Bookshelf 431 


Zanzotto’s “Observations” rank with Meneghello’s and Pasolini’s as some of the most 
important and insightful reflections on the substance and essence of dialect speech, 
rescued from any implication of marginality or inferiority, no longer seen as a “low” 
idiom, but a “deep” language: “. . . dialect appears as the metaphor . . . of every excess, 
unimaginability, gushing effusion, or ambiguous stagnancy of the linguistic fact in its 
most profound nature. It remains laden with the vertigo of the past, of the megacenturies 
in which it extended, infiltrated, subdivided, recomposed itself . . . there we touch, with 
the tongue (in its two meanings of physical organ and word-system), our lack of 
knowledge from whence speech comes, and, in the moment in which it comes, rises like 
milk. . . . Dialect announces itself as the vague site in which /angue and parole tend to 
identify themselves, and every territoriality vanishes into those that are contiguous” (89). 

But how does one translate a pseudo-Venetian or solighese dialect? Are there 
insurmountable obstacles to be reckoned with? In the translators’ note we read that 
Zanzotto himself suggested a non-standard rendering of the dialect: “In the translation, 
therefore, if the passage from Italian to English (or into any other language) is already 
uncertain, the passage from dialect into a foreign language becomes almost impossible. 
The dialect cannot be rendered with Standard English. It would be necessary to find some 
patois or slang that nevertheless was rather known in the Anglophone area” (xvi). 
Heeding Zanzotto’s advice, however, would have been a terrible blunder, and the 
translators wisely decided not to do so, opting instead for a standard colloquial diction, 
thus proving once again that authors would be well-advised to leave the job of translation 
to experienced translators. When it comes to dialects, almost everyone instantly assumes 
that they are a deviation, a non-standard form of speech that requires a non-standard form 
of translation. But this is true only with respect to the national standard, with which the 
conflict is always latent. For the people who speak it (and all dialect speakers understand 
this), dialect is the only natural way of communicating, and to translate it into non- 
standard English or slang would be a gross violation, a misconstruction of the nature of 
dialect. The problem of deviation becomes very real and practically insoluble only in a 
multilingual context, i.e., when Italian and dialect appear together in the same text, and 
the latent opposition becomes manifest and active. Welle and Feldman have translated 
these dialect poems into standard colloquial English with both accuracy and fluidity, 
always mindful of the different linguistic registers and rhythmical variations, and deserve 
praise for a difficult job well done. In the Venetian Recitative that opens the book the 
dialect is more down-to-earth, more lively and brisk, more working-class, while in 
Peasants Wake it becomes more introspective and wistful, reflecting the poet’s own 
musings and reminiscences, and the translations reflect these differences. If I have one 
small reservation, it is the translators’ inconsistent use of rhyme, which in many of these 
poems is an important structural element, and cannot be easily dismissed. Take for 
example one of the poems of the Recitative, where rhyme is used throughout: 


Oci de bissa, de basilissa, 

testa de fogo che ‘I giasso impissa, 
nu te preghemo: sbrega su fora, 

nu te inploremo, tutto te inplora; 
mostrite,vien su, vien su, 

tiremo tuti insieme, ti e nu. 


432 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 
The translation is faithful to the original, but it ignores the rhyme scheme: 


Eyes of a snake, eyes of a queen, 

head of fire that inflames the ice, 

we beg you: burst loose, break free, 

we implore you, everything implores you; 
show yourself above, rise up, rise up, 
let’s all pull together, you and us. 


Rhyme of course is a tyrant, and the translators no doubt felt they had to discard it in 
many instances for the sake of maneuverability. On the other hand, whenever rhyme is 
employed to mirror the original, one can’t help feeling that the chemistry between the 
two texts is finally complete: 


eco ’l primo che passa, 

l’inpaja la carega e inte la paja ’] ghe assa 
una renga che ’| gat sgrifara via, 

cussi quel che vien dopo, bon colega, 
catara ’na carega 

anca da impajar, e cosi sia. 


Here’s the first one to arrive, 

he stuffs the chair and in the straw 
leaves a herring for the cat to claw 
so the next mender, who’s his friend, 
will also find chair to mend, 

and so on, without end. 


In any case, the translations are invariably good and adept at reproducing the flavor and 
rhythm of the original, an indispensable reading for anyone interested in Zanzotto’s 
poetry as well as the current flowering of (neo)dialect poetry. 


Luigi Bonaffini, Brooklyn College 


I limoni. La poesia in Italia nel 1996. A cura di Francesco De Nicola e Giuliano 
Manacorda. Marina di Minturno: Caramanica, 1997. 


Con gran piacere colgo l’occasione per segnalare una coraggiosa e interessante iniziativa 
di un editore dell’ Italia centrale e un gruppo di noti studiosi italiani: J limoni. La poesia in 
Italia nel 1996. Questo volume a scadenza annuale é curato da Francesco De Nicola e 
Giuliano Manacorda e si avvale dell’aiuto generoso di una schiera di collaboratori sparsi 
per la penisola. Dal 1993 J limoni é oramai un appuntamento obbligatorio per chi si 
interessa di poesia e voglia mantenersi sufficientemente informato sui fenomeni pit 
originali che attraversano il vasto e magmatico orizzonte lirico italiano. 


Italian Bookshelf 433 


Il volume include una breve presentazione di Francesco De Nicola, seguita da un 
saggio introduttivo di Giuliano Manacorda in cui si fa il punto sull’anno appena concluso, 
facendo riscontro a caldo della fenomenologia generazionale delle sue voci. Al saggio di 
Manacorda seguono quelli di Giovannetti sull’insegnamento della poesia nelle antologie 
per il triennio e del poeta statunitense Michael Palma sulla traduzione di poesia. 

Nella seconda parte del volume, “Incontri”, troviamo invece una serie di interviste 
che ci avvicinano direttamente ad alcuni protagonisti della scrittura e della lingua poetica. 
La prima intervista a Roberto Denti tratta della poesia per i ragazzi, mentre le altre due 
interviste a Fabio Doplicher e Annalisa Cima sintetizzano lo stato della poesia oggi in 
Italia e riflettono sui lasciti montaliani. 

Nella parte centrale di “Inediti” lo stesso Manacorda presenta una lettera inedita di 
Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. Seguono una serie folta e assortita di “Note”, sei per la 
precisione, di diversi critici: Rodolfo Di Biasio, “Perché essere moderni a tutti i costi’, 
Matteo Lefévre, “Poeti a Roma”; Giuliano Manacorda, “Un poeta da riscoprire”; 
Clemente Di Leo; Massimo Bacigalupo; Seamus Heaney, “Un anno di traduzioni”; 
Cinzia Monti, “Poesia di Anna Maria Ortese”; Marcello Vaglio, “Per leggere Sereni.” 

Alla fine del volume sono concentrate ben settantatré poesie tratte da nuove raccolte 
poetiche e sette schede di nuove traduzioni di autori stranieri, tra cui l’americano 
Lawrence Ferlinghetti. Proprio in coda chiude un breve notiziario di avvenimenti, fatti, 
premiazioni e necrologi a confermare altresi il carattere informativo e divulgativo 
dell’ opera. 

In conclusione, non posso che esprimere |’entusiasmo e l’ammirazione personale per 
questo strumento, J /imoni, che non solo risulta informativo ma soprattutto formativo per 
chi crede e opera o semplicemente apprezza il verbo della poesia. 


Massimo Maggiari, College of Charleston 


Francesco Brusco. Stagioni. Chiavari: Edizioni Libreria, 1998. 


Esile, interessante collezione, questa. La terza volta che la voce flebile, ma sensibile di 
Brusco si fa sentire. Erano gia uscite sue raccolte nel 1987 e nel 1995, e questa terza 
viene introdotta da Massimo Maggiari, che lo definisce “poeta da leggere e da far 
conoscere”. E a onor del vero certi momenti di Brusco sono dawvero intensi, validi: quel 
suo lirico smemorarsi, quel suo tono di preghiera, come parlando da un ritiro francescano, 
quasi frutto di un lungo percorso religioso. Molte di queste poesie posseggono una 
religiosita latente, hanno talvolta la qualita estatica dell’ haiku, dell’ otium contemplativo 
monastico. 

La precipua cifra stilistica del poeta sta nell’uso del presente, ma soprattutto 
nell’applicazione di un estensivo, reiterato, deliberatamente monotonale “imperfetto” 
(spiavo il fiume, alla morte pensavo, si diluiva il dolore, cantavano campane, entravo in 
un altro paesaggio, fiori e stelle mi benedicevano, fantasticavo, udivo un canto ...); 
spesso preferendo la voce verbale dopo |’oggetto (astri nominavo, le pale udivo, vino 
versavo, la tramontana amavo, la giovinezza scorgevo ...). Questo imperfetto € per 
Brusco compiutamente funzionale: modo vago, anzi il pit vago, indeterminato, 


434 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


prolungato, sospeso; che di certe poesie trasognate costituisce la forza e insieme il limite, 
laddove rischia di rendere la poesia epifanica, di ridurla a bozzettismo lirico, eccedente in 
colori pastello piuttosto tenui e non di contenuto, ma di semplice evocazione. 

Si nota che la maggior parte dei testi é stata scritta nei mesi estivi, caldi, solari, e solo 
un paio, pil cupe, portano la data di novembre o dicembre. Conta molto anche un vago 
eco montaliano, a volte esplicito (crea nomi la carrucola del pozzo ...) a volte appena 
percepibile. Come spesso l’illustre conterraneo, Brusco fa una poesia che non puo che 
essere ligure: lo si coglie immediatamente nel vocabolario marino (litorale, vento, 
salsedine, scandagli, conchiglie, maree, alghe, muggini ...), nell’alternanza di luce e di 
notte, di orizzonti vasti e dettagli di orti terrazzati tra mare cielo e terra. Un’alternanza 
tematica che si fa poetica, queste poesie sono “appunti di brezza”: aeree e leggere, 
impalpabili, eteree. E questa loro levita estrema ne é il repentaglio. La soverchia labilita 
rischia di non riuscire a sedimentarsi nell’animo del lettore-ascoltatore; quella 
disposizione stilistica all’antinarrativa minaccia di risolversi troppo di frequente 
nell’elencanzione, nel nominale, nella presenza velatamente ossessiva di poche parole- 
chiave ripetute, almeno in certe liriche, come leit-motiv. La contemplazione rischia di 
trasformarsi in una sorta di pratica ascetica fine a se stessa, in una censura al fare, in una 
ideologia surrettiziamente frenante (follia andare verso lidi stanieri ...). 

Verso la fine della raccolta i testi si fanno progressivamente pil evasivi, piu 
pericolosamente scoordinati dal punto di vista linguistico; e l’indubbia bravura delle 
similitudini (moschea d’erbe, colli cotonati di mimosa) si va scomponendo qua e 1a in 
licenze semantiche forzose (filmavo gli asterischi del bosso, plessi d’erbe, brindisi del 
cellofan ...), mentre il discorso analogico rasenta di tanto in tanto |’annullamento e 
l’assenza del significato (cancellavo i croccanti del linguaggio, acido della creta sotto il 
canto di mitologie verdi ...). 

E tuttavia, malgrado questi appunti da lettore esigente, la promessa del prefatore 
(“poeta da leggere”) & mantenuta lungo |’intera silloge delle Stagioni: la scrittura di 
Brusco risulta effettivamente di buona fattura e letterariamente circonstanziata, possiede 
una base significante profonda ben pit che gradevole. Ed é un termine non comune alla 
miriade di testi poetici pubblicati, ora che si scrive ormai pit di quanto non si legga. 


Flaminio Di Biagi, Loyola University Chicago Rome Center 


Peter Bondanella. Umberto Eco and the Open Text: Semiotics, Fiction, Popular 
Culture. Cambridge: UP, 1997. Pp. 218. 


Because we are living in the intellectual age defined and shaped by Umberto Eco, and 
because this major cultural figure continues to produce important works at a prodigious 
rate, it is difficult yet crucial for us to stand back and take his measure. Jn Umberto Eco 
and the Open Text, Peter Bondanella admirably meets this challenge. Writing what could 
best be described as an intellectual biography, Bondanella traces Eco’s evolution from 
student of medieval aesthetics to contemporary cultural theorist and best-selling novelist 
as he confronts such movements as structuralism, semiotics, deconstruction, and narrative 
theory along the way. Insisting that Eco’s work is always two-sided, where intellectual 
discoveries issue forth in serious scholarly writing and in parodic spoofs or fictional 


Italian Bookshelf 435 


versions of themselves, Bondanella systematically reveals the interrelationships among 
the three novels, The Name of the Rose, Foucault's Pendulum, and The Island of the Day 
Before, and the theoretical positions developed in tandem with them. His strategy is to 
juxtapose Eco’s fictional output with scholarly writings published around the same time 
to reveal the dialectical operations of the career he calls “a work-in-progress.” Thus 
Bondanella pairs The Open Work with the humorous and parodic pieces of Misreadings, 
following Eco’s own lead in so doing. “If the work of the neo-avant-garde [heralded in 
The Open Work] consisted in turning inside out the languages of daily life and of 
literature,” Eco wrote in the preface to Misreadings, “the comic and the grotesque should 
be part of that program” (33). Eco’s subsequent engagement with semiotics, popular 
literature, and the question of the implied reader find their fictional embodiment in 
William of Baskerville, failed detective and “inventor of semiotic abductions” in The 
Name of the Rose. The argument of The Limits of Interpretation is taken to paranoid 
extremes in Eco’s second novel, Foucault's Pendulum, which serves as an object lesson 
on the dangers of a “conspiracy theory” approach to the uncovering of literary meaning. 
Eco’s most recent novel to date, The Island of the Day Before, exemplifies the aesthetic 
pleasure derived from the “metaphysical comfort” of immersion in fictional universes - 
an argument framed in expository terms in the pages of Six Walks in the Fictional Woods. 

In tracing the itinerary of this extraordinarily prolific and versatile protagonist of 
contemporary European culture, Bondanella is alert to both the continuities and the 
dramatic shifts in Eco’s intellectual development. While never losing sight of the 
beginnings in Eco’s doctoral dissertation on the aesthetics of scholasticism, to which 
Bondanella appositely returns throughout his study, the American scholar is 
extraordinarily attentive to the transitional points in the itinerary, where Eco has 
exhausted the heuristic possibilities of one particular methodology and reaches for a new 
framework of inquiry. The shift from structuralism to semiotics is once such pivotal 
point. “After publishing anthologies of occasional essays on popular culture, Eco’s 
studies of mass media convinced him that he required a more general set of theoretical 
principles which would allow either a literary theorist or a social critic to examine both 
high and popular culture .. . Moreover, such a comprehensive perspective would have to 
emphasize the intricate relationships between such ‘texts’ (now defined as any product of 
human culture) and the ideology or the culture of the society that produced them” (66). 
Eventually, Eco would come to a realization of the limits of theory itself, of the confines 
of any totalizing system of explanation. Hence “his search for a universal theory of 
human culture through the methodology of semiotics, the major focus of his work during 
the 1970s, has now become more narrowly focused upon the theory and practice of fiction 
... To paraphrase his own words, upon reaching maturity, Eco discovered that there were 
matters which must be narrated when they could not be resolved by theorizing” (195-96). 

Bondanella’s expertise in Italian literature and mass media allows him to locate Eco 
in a broad intellectual context, placing the writer’s achievement at the heart of twentieth- 
century Italian cultural history. Accordingly, Eco emerges as a brilliant mediating figure, 
able to bridge the gap between high and mass culture, between theory and fiction, 
between Italian provincialism and the European avant-garde, and most important, 
between the Academy and the general public. In philosophical terms, Bondanella places 
Eco outside the reigning polarities of twentieth-century Italian thought, dominated by 
Crocean idealism on the one hand and Marxist materialism on the other. While insisting 
on a politically progressive interpretation of texts as vitally linked to their historical 


436 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


contexts, and arguing for the role of the intellectual as the creator of a critical 
consciousness in the mass public, Eco never embraced a social realist approach to literary 
production. But the Crocean dismissal of all ideological concerns in favor of an analysis 
focused on pure lyrical creativity (poesia to the exclusion of non-poesia) was anathema 
to him. Hence Eco insisted on reading such works as Dante’s Commedia or Joyce’s 
Ulysses as “epistemologiclal metaphors” of their age, where mimesis occurs at the level 
of aesthetic form, where the “modo di formare” of these works is the basis of their 
referential function. “Art knows the world,” writes Eco in The Open Work, “through its 
formal structures (which, therefore, can no longer be considered from a purely formalist 
point of view but must be seen as its true content)” (31). 

In its most powerful moments, this study becomes a plea for the kind of progressive, 
liberated critical stance that Bondanella sees embodied in Eco, who is neither the 
“apocalyptic” (high-brow), nor “integrated” (accepting of all cultural messages) 
intellectual of the Italian author’s own formulation, but one who transcends orthodoxy 
and uses his writings to free his readers from mass manipulation. Thus the critic must 
engage in acts of “semiologic guerrilla warfare,” on the one hand subverting the 
dominant and regressive hold of the mass media over the popular mind, while on the 
other hand acknowledging the public’s need for the formulaic “iterative” discourse of 
mass culture to counteract the prodigious flow of messages in our age of information 
overkill. 

One of the many virtues of this volume is that it does not shrink from the daunting 
philological problem of establishing the texts themselves, since often Eco modified his 
works in subsequent editions or translations. In his usual scrupulous way, Bondanella 
supplies a bibliography of Eco’s writings which differentiates between various versions 
of the primary works, while offering a useful, selected list of secondary sources in 
English and Italian. 

Umberto Eco and The Open Text is that rarest of achievements: an introduction 
which uses language accessible to non-initiates without being simplistic or reductive, 
while at the same time making a sophisticated and supremely valuable contribution to 
scholarship in the field. If Eco’s quest throughout his “work-in-progress” has been to 
create his model /ector in fabula, (the urbane, encyclopedically learned, witty, and 
tolerant counterpart of its “model author”), then he could find no better accomplice than 
the writer of this study. 

Millicent Marcus, The University of Pennsylvania 


Giuliana Morandini. The Café of Mirrors. Trans. and Introd. Luisa Quartermaine. 
Exeter: U of Exeter P / Northwestern U, 1997. Pp. xvi + 160. 


Originally published in 1983, Caffé specchi (Milano: Bompiani) won the prestigious 
“PremioViareggio.” This 1997 publication is the first English translation of this novel. 
The Café of Mirrors tells the story of Katharina Pollaczek who arrives in an unnamed city 
to meet with a lawyer about gaining custody of her son, Friedrich. Several concrete 
events, the murder of a Serbian woman, Katharina’s sexual relationship with a man she 
meets, and the illness of her former butler, intertwine with the inner workings of her own 


Italian Bookshelf 437 


mind. Together with her translation of the novel, Luisa Quartermaine includes an 
“Introduction” on Morandini’s life and works, and an “Historical Note on the City of 
Trieste,” which provides additional background on the history and culture of Trieste and 
its environs. 

Faithful to the author’s explicit intention, Quartermaine leaves passages in 
languages other than Italian while providing translations in footnotes: “In order to 
maintain the character of the city described in this novel, and to respect the author’s 
stylistic choice, the dialogues in dialect and the phrases in a language other than Italian 
have been left untranslated in the text with a translation provided in footnotes. Where 
English was used in the original this has been identified by the use of italic” (Translator’s 
Note, p. xvi). In Morandini’s original text, Italianists may recall, the novel concludes 
with “Traduzione delle frasi in lingua straniera” [Translations of foreign words and 
expressions”’] (pp. 152-54). 

In her Introduction, Quartermaine maps out the cultural context for much of 
Morandini’s work, situating The Café of Mirrors in an historical and literary continuum. 
Quartermaine focuses on two main aspects: first, Trieste as locus of history and, second, 
the thematics of alienation, which pervade Morandini’s corpus in general and this novel 
in particular. It is interesting to note that the main character of Morandini’s novel, 
Katharina Pollaczek, arrives in an unnamed city which the translator identifies as Trieste 
through “[r]eflections in the mirrors of its recognizable caffé” and “fleeting, yet precise 
references to its history” (viii). The translator speculates that one reason Morandini 
chose not to name Trieste directly in the novel is because “the Trieste of the novel 
reflects the fragmented personality of the protagonist, images her own crisis” (viii). 
While the translator does well to connect the complex relationship between character and 
setting, inner world and outer world, she could have provided additional commentary to 
aid the reader. If Trieste is so central to Morandini, why not name it? English language 
readers may be frustrated by the abundance of explanatory footnotes in the novel rather 
than additional analysis in the Introduction. In addition, Morandini’s choice of Rilke to 
introduce the novel proper with an epigraph is entirely lost on the reader since 
Quartermaine fails to provide a translation into English. 

Morandini’s novel focuses on very few external events. Rather, we witness the 
existential anguish and painful alienation of a young woman who has apparently spent 
some time in a mental hospital. Here the dream world and quotidian reality conflate and 
merge, becoming indistinguishable. Physical descriptions serve only to reflect the 
disturbed mind of the main character: “Morandini’s narrative style images the mind’s 
language, exploiting its capacity for association and sequent observation as well as its 
ability to manipulate images while constantly admitting new material” (xi). Given these 
narrative and stylistic constraints, a translator’s work is difficult indeed and becomes 
crucial to readers’ understanding. Quartermaine takes great pains to emphasize 
Morandini’s expressive language and associative style, at times difficult, manipulative, 
obtuse. A language “never too realistic, its style develops through assonance, association, 
sounds, and colours. Morandini renders visible what cannot be reasoned logically; 
concrete objects lose the materiality of still life” (xi). 

Overall, Quartermaine does a good job of translating Morandini’s dense and 
problematic prose. For example, in one of the numerous descriptions of the landscape, 
Quartermaine translates: “In the swollen sky, taut to the limit, dark furrows like veins of 
tin and lead laced the purple vault, sketched the outline of the storm in every direction. 


438 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


The clouds divided across a map ruled by magnetic fields” (8). [“Nel cielo gonfio e teso 
al limite, solchi scuri, vene di stagno e piombo, percorrevano la volta violacea, 
disegnavano in tutte le direzioni i diagrammi della bufera. Le nubi si dividevano in una 
mappa governata da campi magnetici” (12).] In another passage, Quartermaine succeeds 
in portraying a character’s state of mind through physical description pregnant with 
metaphoric possibilities: “The blood slowed down leaving his hands white and still as 
china ornaments. Then his back bent over the balcony rail into the darkness to look at the 
damp asphalt. It was a very tiring position. His arms moved jerkily, intermittently, they 
were conducting a different melody now, they hung away from the body like withered 
birch branches” (83). [‘Il sangue rallentava e le mani rimanevano bianche e ferme come 
soprammobili. Allora la sua schiena si piegava oltre la ringhiera del balcone, giti nella 
notte per guardare |’asfalto umido. Era una posizione di estrema fatica. Le braccia si 
muovevano a scatti, senza continuita, dirigevano una musica diversa, si allontanavano dal 
corpo come rami di betulle appassite” (80).} 

In the important opening pages of the novel, however, Quartermaine fails to 
adequately describe the psychological make-up of the protagonist in her choice of words: 
“We touch things,” she told herself, “to discover closed scenes, the hidden depths beneath 
the surface. By feeling our way over a huge belly again we rediscover its unfulfilled 
yearnings” (10). [“Tocchiamo le cose,” pensd, “per scoprire le scene chiuse, le sacche 
oltre la superficie. Si riattraversa un grande ventre e se ne ritroviamo i desideri sospesi” 
(13).] Perhaps, in this case, to underline Morandini’s interest in the relationship between 
literature and psychology, it would have been better to translate “ventre” as “womb” and 
“desideri” as “desires.” 

At times, though, Quartermaine falls far short of making Morandini readable and 
understandable to an English-speaking audience with translations that are very literal. In 
another passage, for example, Quartermaine maintains an almost one-to-one 
correspondence between Italian and English which renders the passage and its context 
almost indecipherable: “For goodness’ sake, you are all the same, but think you are 
different. You think you can keep everything as if in a safe, but the cells will crumble for 
you, too. We mustn’t talk .. . for you it is all useless, silence. You scorn any sign and 
we go on decoding a mere nothing. Will you not grant us a moment? Maybe that wall 
will fall down, what do you think?” (30). [‘Possibile, siete tutti cosi eguali e credete di 
essere diversi. Pensate di trattenere tutto come in uno scrigno, ma le cellule si 
sfalderanno anche per voi. Non dobbiamo parlare . . . per voi é tutto intutile, silenzio. 
Sdegnate ogni segno e noi continuiamo a decifrare il nulla. Non ci concedete un attimo? 
Forse quel muro crollerebbe, che ne dici?” (31)] 

Nevertheless, Quartermaine’s translation The Café of Mirrors remains an important 
contribution to interdisciplinary literary studies by making Giuliana Morandini’s novel 
accessible to a new audience. Her translation is valuable to readers with limited or no 
knowledge of contemporary Italian women’s literature as well as to seasoned scholars. 
Quartermaine’s translation joins the exciting trend of English translations of prominent 
Italian women writers, such as Anna Banti, Dacia Maraini, and Franca Rame, who live on 
in another language and reach an ever-increasing reading public. 


Carole C. Gallucci, College of William & Mary 


Italian Bookshelf 439 


Franco Zanfrilli. I/ fior del ficodinndia. Saggi su Bonaviri. Quaderni dell’ Istituto di 
Storia dello Spettacolo Siciliano. Acireale: La Cantinella, 1997. Pp. 140. 


Ricco di suggestioni e di sensibilita, il lavoro di Franco Zangrilli su Giuseppe Bonaviri é 
un’analisi dell’ultimo quindicennio dell’opera dell’autore siciliano. Lo studioso, che 
aveva in precedenza pubblicato due volumi dedicati allo stesso scrittore, Bonaviri e il 
mistero cosmico, Abano Terme: Piovan, 1985 e Bonaviri e il tempo, Catania: Marino, 
1986, suddivide, nella eloquente premessa, tre distinte fasi creative nell’attivita poetica 
bonaviriana: la prima contrassegnata da una certa “tendenza a contaminare la 
rappresentazione delle cose . . . con motivi favolosi . . . delicatamente cosmici” (11), la 
seconda dominata da una intuizione e da una rappresentazione fantastica in cui si 
fondono conoscenze scientifiche e tematiche che si estendono dal filosofico 
all’universale, la terza ed ultima in cui lo studioso riconosce |’intrecciarsi 
dell’immaginazione fantastico-scientifica con una sempre pit’ vivace spinta alla 
drammatizzazione del reale in termini mitico-cosmici. 

Nella terza fase il tema dominante dell’intuizione poetica bonaviriana rimane, per 
Zangrilli, il rapporto di interrogazione dell’uomo con |’universo circostante. Nella vasta e 
complessa produzione letteraria dello scrittore siciliano, che va dalla saggistica, alla 
poesia, al romanzo, questa interrogazione si trasforma di volta in volta in personaggi che 
intraprendono varie e colorate avventure, alle quali sta alla base un incessante ed 
estenuante viaggio di analisi, di scavo, di scoperta. Alla stringente tematica universale 
Bonaviri accosta, per renderla piu viva e drammatizzarla, un linguaggio sperimentale, a 
volte difficile, complesso, scientifico, a volte semplice ed allusivo, ma sempre carico di 
suggestioni e polisemie. Una personalita scrittoria, quella di Bonaviri, che si presta a una 
varieta di definizioni ed interpretazioni, neorealista, cosmico, simbolico, favoloso, ma 
alla quale Zangrilli offre una prospettiva personale, pit intima e precisa, in armonia con 
l’inquieta ricerca metafisica e cosmica dello scrittore. 

Il Fior del ficodindia & suddiviso in otto capitoli, ognuno dei quali si sofferma ad 
analizzare e ad interpretare il peso specifico ed il valore poetico di figure o tematiche 
ricorrente nella produzione scrittoria bonaviriana degli ultimi quindici anni, non 
dimenticando di indicare il collegamento con la scrittura precedente e di valutare il 
significato di ogni scelta di stile e di ogni svolta nel contenuto tematico. 

Il primo capitolo é dedicato alla figura della madre, che, presente in molta della 
scrittura bonaviriana delle fasi creative posteriori, riaffiora con estrema vivacita 
semantica nell’ultima fase, e, in particolare, nelle Novelle saracene. Nei diversi racconti 
questa figura materna assume significazioni favolose, arcaiche, fiabesche; la madre 
diviene personaggio-mito, figura archetipa di matrice, di divinita che crea e distrugge, 
cosmica nella sua potenza e nel suo essere centro da cui tutto ha origine. Pregne di 
significato sono le indicazioni, che Zangrilli offre con dovizia di esempi, sulla 
intrepretazione semantica e simbolica di questo personaggio che Bonaviri ha saputo 
incapsulare magistralmente nell’immagine di una Sicilia simbolica, preistorica, 
mitologica. 

Al centro del secondo capitolo Zangrilli pone la tematica del tempo, tematica cara allo 
scrittore siciliano e che si ritrova, svolta ed elaborata, in tutti i suoi lavori, in quelli di 
prosa come in quelli di poesia. In particolare |’attenzione dello studioso si rivolge a una 
raccolta di poesie, O corpo sospiroso, a L’incominciamento, opera che intreccia prosa e 


440 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


poesia, e all’Arenario, volume di scritti critici. In questi lavori il tempo viene studiato 
nella sua matrice scientifica, filosofica, ma anche mitologica, come elemento 
indissolubilmente legato all’esistenza umana, trait d’union tra un visibilissimo e 
palpabile microcosmo, quello dell’uomo, della sua esistenza, della sua compatita 
sofferenza e della sua cultura e tradizione, e quello meno palpabile e riconoscibile del 
macrocosmo, quell’universo di eventi e di fenomeni che sfuggono al contatto immediato 
ma nel quale l’uomo ed il suo mondo particolare, specifico, sono iscritti. Il tempo in 
Bonaviri € proiezione, dice bene Zangrilli, di un mondo memoriale ben radicato nel 
microcosmo della piccola Mineo, dove si ritrovano il ricordo dei propri cari, dei suoni e 
dei colori del paesaggio siciliano, e soprattutto dove risuonano quelle voci mai 
dimenticate, le voci dei personaggi della propria infanzia, il padre e la madre, la cerchia 
dei familiari, ma anche i filosofi analfabeti, i contadini-poeti che popolano e animano la 
memoria autoriale. I] tempo-memoria, afferma con sagacita Zangrilli, ¢ per Bonaviri un 
sistema circolare, armonico, completo e pieno, in cui il macrocosmo si riflette nel 
microcosmo, il cui afflato @ contemporaneamente cosmico e mitico. E per la 
rappresentazione del tempo-memoria-mito, sottolinea Zangrilli, Bonaviri utilizza un 
linguaggio altrettanto memoriale, fatto di antiche cantilene popolari, di termini tratti dal 
dialetto siciliano, il tutto mescolato abilmente a termini espunti dal vocabolario tecnico- 
scientifico con il quale |’autore ha una continua frequentazione. 

Nel terzo capitolo il critico si sofferma sul tema dei sensi e della sensualita, filtrata 
attraverso la creazione di personaggi nuovi, originali, come il protagonista di E un 
rosseggiar di peschi e d’albicocchi, Undajang, nel quale convergono lo studio di una 
colorata e sorprendente eroticita e la concezione di una sensualita legata alla violenza, 
alla morte a ai suoi riti, ed infine alla metamorfosi, in un continuum cosmico reso piu 
avvincente dalla esuberante simbolicita, allusivita del linguaggio, che rivela in questo 
romanzo sia il lato straordinariamente immaginativo di Bonaviri che la sua complessa 
trama psicologico-sensuale. 

Nel quarto capitolo Zangrilli prende in esame Lip to Lip, una raccolta di racconti in cui 
dominano i luoghi classici della narrativa bonaviriana e soprattutto dove ritornano i temi 
cari allo scrittore, quello di una religione vissuta tra la spiritualita trascendentale e il 
senso panico della Natura, in cui il dio € pensato come ente in continua “evoluzione 
cosmica” (57). Ritorna il tema del viaggio, centrifugo verso la madre o centripeto, verso 
luoghi misteriosi, arcani e indefiniti, un itinerario squisitamente interiore, una 
esplorazione della propria individualita. Si accompagnano a queste tematiche quelle tratte 
dalla realta circostante, dal mondo quotidiano, che, per Zangrilli, Bonaviri sa captare con 
sensibilita e sa metamorfosare con linguaggio affabulatorio magistrale, arricchito da una 
estesa e stratificata palette lessicale, una giustapposizione di neologismi, dialettismi, di 
combinazioni linguistiche originali, e, senza dubbio, sperimentali. 

Il quinto capitolo presenta un’analisi tematica e stilistica de // dormiveglia, che offre, 
secondo il critico, ancora un nuovo aspetto della intuizione creativa bonaviriana, quello 
del viaggio congiunto al sogno e alla sua realta irreale ed esoterica. Come era gia stato 
sottolineato da Zangrilli nel capitolo precedente, il tema del viaggio viene a rappresentare 
per Bonaviri una continua ricerca interiore, nel quale si alternano, all’ansia e 
all’inquietudine |’euforia della possibile conoscenza, del profondo arricchimento umano e 
spirituale. Cosi il romanzo, il cui inizio appare come una disquisizione, un trattato sul 
sogno, diviene, per Zangrilli, |’attuazione di un percorso gnoseologico che attraverso 
spostamenti geografici, spaziali e temporali, attraverso approfondite riflessioni 


Italian Bookshelf 441 


psicoanalitiche e filosofiche, approda ancora una volta ad un sogno che si potrebbe 
definire utopia, alla invenzione di un nuovo individuo, di un nuovo pensiero, di una 
nuova filosofia. 

Nel sesto capitolo Zangrilli affronta lo studio di una raccolta di poesie, // re bambino e 
di un romanzo Ghigo. Del romanzo il critico enfatizza la dimensione autobiografica, il 
cui fulcro é la rivisitazione di una infanzia siciliana e mineola nel senso pit idillico e 
rarefatto del termine, una eta permeata da una religiosita che é amalgama di differenti 
tradizioni storiche, il paganesimo, il cristianesimo e |’Islam, un tempo che é€ cadenzato 
dalla contemplazione di una natura che é nel contempo universo panico e cosmogonia di 
sensi e sentimenti. All’idillio dell’infanzia tuttavia, sottolinea Zangrilli, Bonaviri fa 
seguire il pit impoetico incontro con la citta, con il male e la sofferenza della eta adulta. 
Se, come afferma Zangrilli, Ghigo é di lettura semplice e chiara, non altrettanto lo é la 
raccolta di poesie intitolata // re bambino. Completamente permeata anch’essa 
dall’elemento autobiografico, la morte della madre e la nascita del nipotino, la raccolta 
risente, a parere del critico, della nuova ideologia stilistica e poetica post-moderna. La 
contaminazione di temi, miti, epoche narrative, la sperimentazione linguistica, |’impasto 
e il pastiche dominano infatti stilisticamente e tematicamente il testo. 

Il settimo capitolo viene dedicato all’attivita poetica dello scrittore siciliano, cha aveva 
iniziato a comporre versi in eta giovanissimaa. // dire celeste diviene allora per Zangrilli la 
raccolta pid completa dell’esperienza versica bonaviriana, raccolta che, a suo parere, é 
ricca di una immaginazione tutta personale, che non si rifa ad alcuna specifica genitura 
poetica o ideologica, ma scaturisce dall’originale accostamento di conoscenze 
scientifiche e di tradizioni culturali nuove e antiche, dalla commistione di ritmi e registri 
fantastici e cosmico-mitici. Dall’osservazione e dalla riflessione sulla realta del mondo si 
passa infatti felicemente ad un livello e ad una dimensione favolosa, ad una realta di 
sogno, ad un piano situazionale eminentemente surreale. 

Nell’ottavo ed ultimo capitolo il critico si sofferma sul romanzo // dottor Bilob, 
anch’esso scaturito da una situazione ampiamente autobiografica, dalla quale emergono 
suggestioni ed interrogazioni di carattere universale. Se il motore dell’azione ¢ avviato da 
un evento perfettamente inserito nel quotidiano il protagonista sposta quasi 
immediatamente il discorso narrativo su un piano diverso, “strano,” “magico”. Si ritrova 
qui, secondo Zangrilli, la migliore vena fantastica e immaginativa bonaviriana, che 
frammenta in ogni personaggio i diversi aspetti e le diverse caratteristiche della propria 
multiforme personalita. 

Rappresentazioni dell’io poetico e umano dello scrittore sono allora, secondo Zangrilli, 
il prete che predica “una religione cosmica” (102) o il giovane fisico incontrato sul treno 
per Frosinone, aspetti forse opposti ma complementari dell’anima e dell’intelletto 
bonaviriano. Se i personaggi sono tutti la reincarnazione di un’unica individualita il 
paesaggio, che negli altri lavori é chiaramente la metafora di una Mineo divenuta 
esperienza ed exemplum universali, qui é diverso, laziale, ma non per questo meno 
simbolico, meno misterioso, meno teatro di una trasformazione che rende |’individuo un 
tutt’uno con l’universo, in una disintegrazione e disgregazione che promette una 
rinascita, una cosmica reintegrazione nell’elemento e nella materia. 

Il fior del ficodindia & una capillare e approfondita riflessione sull’universo tematico e 
stilistico di Giuseppe Bonaviri, autore quanto mai poliedrico e raffinato. Il lavoro di 
ricerca di Zangrilli, con il suo approccio cosmico-filosofico-scientifico, sulla produzione 
narrativa, poetica e saggistica bonaviriana si pud dire concluso con quest’opera che 


442 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


diverra sicuramente una lettura fondamentale per la comprensione di una scrittura 
suggestiva e originale come quella di Giuseppe Bonaviri. 


Simona Wright, The College of New Jersey 


Adriana Cavarero. Tu che mi guardi, tu che mi racconti. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1997. 


Adriana Cavarero has long been known as a key feminist thinker and one of the chief 
proponents of i/ pensiero della differenza sessuale in Italy. She played a leading role in 
the development of the Italian women’s group Diotima and was involved in many of its 
early publications. She is also one of Italy’s foremost specialists in ancient philosophy 
and a professor of political philosophy at the University of Verona. In many ways, then, 
she straddles two worlds: a deeply committed feminist scholar, she continues to engage 
with the metaphysical tradition in which she was originally trained. This orientation was 
ultimately one of the central reasons for her split from the Diotima group and fellow- 
founder Luisa Muraro’s more radical separatist stance. Yet it is also one of the great 
strengths of her work and a fundamental part of what makes it relevant to both feminist 
scholars and a broader range of critical thinkers, including literary critics. 

Cavarero’s first book, Nonostante Platone, represents a feminist deconstruction of 
the Platonic myth and the foundations of the patriarchal philosophical tradition through 
an examination of female figures in ancient philosophy. Her second, Corpo in figure, 
continues her work on sexual difference. In her latest book, Tu che mi guardi, tu che mi 
racconti, Cavarero moves on to explore the issue of identity in terms of the question of 
“who” or rather “what” an individual is. Taking as a starting point Hannah Arendt’s 
conception of the uniqueness rather than unity of the individual, Cavarero proposes a 
version of identity that differentiates itself both from the strong subject of the Western 
philosophical tradition and from the postmodern fragmented self in this emphasis on 
“whoness,” rather than “whatness.” Emphasizing the fundamental role of narrative in 
identity formation, she travels through stories by authors from Blixen to Borges, the great 
myths of the Western tradition, and the experiences of ordinary Italian women in 
women’s groups to establish the link between hearing one’s story told and identity 
formation. 

Cavarero’s book opens with a summary of a story by Karen Blixen: A man who is 
wakened by a noise goes outside in the dark to see what it is and in the morning discovers 
that his night-time footprints have left behind the outline of a stork on the ground. Blixen 
asks whether at the end of the design of her life she, or others, will see the outline of a 
figure. For Cavarero, the question is whether the course of every life leaves behind it this 
kind of unintentional, yet meaningful and unified design. As she points out, the design is 
only visible posthumously: “L’unita figurale del disegno, il significato unitario della 
storia, pud essere posta, da chi la vive, solo in forma di interrogazione. O, forse, di 
desiderio” (8). Being told our story by another, however, gives us the possibility of 
tracing at least part of the design. Aspects of our lives — our births and deaths — are 
always told by others; so even our own autobiographical accounts of the stories of our 
lives are bound up with their narration by others. Using Arendt’s notion that ‘nessuno ha 
una vita degna di considerazione di cui non si possa raccontare una storia’ (quoted by 


Italian Bookshelf 443 


Cavarero 9), Cavarero establishes storytelling as a key element of developing ways to 
live together in a community. She is concerned with narratives rather than the forms they 
take. She sees the postmodern obsession with the text as misguided and argues that, for 
her purposes, it is the fact of storytelling itself, rather than the specific story and its 
particular form, that counts. For Cavarero, telling others their own stories is a gift, and 
according to her the patriarchal philosophical tradition has missed this point and its 
ethical and political implications. She claims that women have an important advantage 
when it comes to storytelling of this kind because of what she sees as their particular 
ability for privileged and intensely narrative relations. 

In line with the tradition of the Diotima group, Cavarero bases much of her theory in 
lived experience, both her own and that of other women. However, here, as in Nonostante 
Platone, she also critically engages with some of the Western philosophical tradition’s 
best-known foundational myths in order to point to the ironies and contradictions inherent 
in that tradition. The first section of the book takes a new look at some of the heroes of 
the Western tradition. In their stories, Cavarero sees at the heart of her conception of 
identity the desire to hear oneself narrated by another. Oedipus’s ignorance of his own 
story is seen as symptomatic of the suppression of storytelling in the philosophical 
tradition from Plato onwards. Ulysses, on the other hand, becomes an emblem of the 
problematic relationship between autobiography and biography that Cavarero discusses. 
Although he is able to recount his exploits himself, it is not until he hears a blind seer 
sing of them that he fully realizes their true significance, and is given the knowledge of 
who he is: “il racconto di un altro. . . finalmente gli svela la sua identita” (28). Yet, as 
Cavarero points out, Ulysses, like Oedipus, ignores the fundamental point from which his 
identity began: “Chi incarna |’ex dell’ex-istente, ossia la madre da cui nacque, pur 
essendoci stata all’origine della sua ex-istenza, ora infatti non c’é pit’ (30). In their 
ignorance and/or neglect of their maternal origins, these heroes are symbols of the 
disregard for sexual difference that characterizes the Western philosophical tradition and 
is reflected in its language. Here, as in her earlier works, Cavarero seeks to reveal the 
monumental and monstrous Man, both male and neuter, at the center of Western 
metaphysics. This figure excludes the fact of sexual difference and denies women (and 
indeed men) a language with which to think about it. In exposing this exclusion, she 
exposes the silencing of a female voice in philosophy. Tu che mi guardi, tu che mi 
racconti is part of her ongoing project both to dialogue with and resist the language of 
Western philosophy while valorizing female philosophical discourse. 

This unambiguous political agenda and her clear, unpretentious style are refreshing, 
yet she avoids oversimplifying her complex interweaving of narratives and theorizing. 
Although at times the repetition of phrases such as “in altri termini” or “per dire alla 
buona” becomes tiresome, her restatement of her arguments provides useful clarification 
of complicated philosophical theories. Her explicit reiteration of her commitment to the 
“pensiero della differenza sessuale” and its significance is also illuminating. For 
Cavarero, from the moment of birth, sexual difference is defined as the primary element 
of the “whoness” of the individual. Clearly, she does not intend her emphasis on the 
uniqueness of every individual (his or her “whoness” rather than “whatness”) to disturb 
the theoretical underpinnings of sexual difference. Nevertheless, the essentialism of her 
conception of sexual difference sometimes leads her to make intuitive generalizations. 
For example, she characterizes female friendship as based on the mutual exchange of 
narratives, and male friendship as based around conversations about possessions and 


444 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


football. Her refusal of postmodern fragmentation leads her ultimately to create 
categories such as “female friendship,” which, by virtue of being categories, seem to risk 
sliding back into the realm of “whatness” she seeks to avoid. The primacy of sexual 
difference as a defining feature of “whoness” also seems to be problematic: How is this 
different from categories of “whatness” such as, for example, race? 

Another question that Cavarero’s book raises but never fully answers is that of the 
role of the visual in the quest for an understanding of identity that she describes. Visual 
metaphors dominate western philosophical discourse, and Cavarero responds to this 
question with her own visual metaphors, as with the Blixen story of the stork design. Yet 
despite the complex web of visual metaphors with which Cavarero engages, and despite 
the book’s title, there is very little direct discussion of how the tu che mi guardi relates to 
the tu che mi racconti. Cavarero makes the point that the uniqueness or ‘whoness’ of the 
individual consists in the simple fact of his or her unrepeatable physical and mental 
existence, which is most obviously made apparent to us by his or her presence before our 
eyes. She never fully explores the important implications of this issue for the relationship 
between seeing and telling nor does she address the complex interactions that take place 
in the visual field; nevertheless, her discussion of the central role of narrative in identity 
relations and politics is thoroughly and persuasively argued. 

Arguments against the essentialism of i/ pensiero della differenza sessuale can be 
raised just as much here as with regards to Nonostante Platone. Ultimately, however, Tu 
che mi guardi, tu che mi racconti can only be seen as an important contribution to the 
discourse on sexual difference. It adds a conception of selfhood that takes the sexual 
difference debate to a new level and presents an alternative to both the monolithic 
traditional Subject and the postmodern fragmented self. Using the notion of uniqueness 
rather than unity, and her conception of the relation between narrative and a specifically 
Arendtian politics, Cavarero negotiates a delicate path between postmodern 
fragmentation and traditional unity and opens up a space for a new understanding of 
identity. 

Sarah Hill, The University of Chicago 


OK 


Brief Notices 
Tomaso Kemeny. Melody. Milano: Marcos y Marcos, 1997. 


“Aspetto la rara scintilla anarchica in grado di mutare il deserto che avanza in un bosco di 
rose ardenti”, dichiarava Tomaso Kemeny nel 1976 alla pubblicazione del suo primo 
libro. Oggi, nella sua poesia, sensualita e fisicita balzano subito all’occhio, sbucano 
direttamente dal caos dell’esperienza quotidiana. 

Poesie che corrono come cavalli in fuga, in cui si inseriscono sprazzi vivaci di 
memoria, capaci di trasformare cose piccole e ciclopiche in “essenze” indimenticabili. 
Completano il volume un dramma-lampo e un quaderno di traduzioni, da Dylan Thomas 
ad André Breton, da Jozséf Attila a Seamus Heaney. Si tratti di poesie o di traduzioni, il 
linguaggio di Kemeny riesce sempre ad aprire nuovi squarci, quasi nuove figurazioni 
cosmogoniche: “I tuoi grandi occhi / mi persero il cielo / in un istante di piume e di 


Italian Bookshelf 445 


foglie:/ ma la tua pelle sprigiond / subito le voglie / pronte a rovescaire il nostro nido / 
nella polvere”. 
Massimo Maggiari, Charleston College 


Arturo Onofri. Ciclo della terrestrita del sole. Terrestrita del sole — Vincere il drago! A 
c. di Marco Albertazzi. Trento: La Finestra, 1998. 


Il volume include le prime due raccolte del ciclo lirico della Terrestrita del sole, 
composto da Onofri tra il 1925 e il 1928. Nell’ambito della lirica contemporanea italiana 
quest’opera ricopre un ruolo di grande importanza: in essa, infatti, sono evidenti gli 
influssi metafisici propri di certa tradizione poetica occulta del nostro paese. Non si tratta 
quindi di poesia formale, ma di poesia “altra”, in cui testo e metatesto si fondono 
nell’ opus artistico finale. L’autore é accostabile ai nomi di spicco della poesia metafisica 
dellOtto-Novecento europeo, come, ad esempio, Pessoa, Yeats, Rilke e Montale. 

Oltre a queste due si riediteranno anche le altre tre raccolte del suddetto ciclo (Suoni 
del Gral, Zolla ritorna cosmo, e Aprirsi fiore insieme a simili melodie rapprese in 
mondo), al fine di far conoscere un’opera che é, per molti versi, unica nel panorama 
letterario italiano ed europeo. 

Massimo Maggiari, Charleston College 


Lucente, Gregory. Crosspaths in Literary Theory and Criticism. Stanford: UP, 1997. 
Pp. 193. 
This volume on recent trends in American and Italian critical traditions is divided into 
three parts. The first part, “Recent Theory,” covers “Deconstruction, Marxism, and 
Feminism in Current Theory” (3-18); “Critical Pluralism in the American and European 
Traditions” (19-34); “History with a Future(?)” (35-53); and “‘Could you elaborate on 
that?’ (Well, Yes and No)” (54-73). In the second part, “The Historical Imagination,” the 
chapters are: “Vico, Hercules, and the Lion” (77-88); “Hayden White’s ‘The Content of 
the Form’” (89-93); “Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow” (94-103); “Rationality and Myth in 
Pirandello’s Later Works” (104-20); and “Literary Representation and 
Sociopolitical/Cultural Contexts in the Historical Novel” (121-32). The final part entitled 
“Three Debates” contains: “‘The Exercise of Silence’” (135-48); ““‘Against Theory?’ Yes 
and No” (149-61); and “Weak Thought/Strong Thought” (162-67). 

Anne Tordi, Chapel Hill, NC 


Ridolfi, Carlo. The Life of Titian. Ed. Julia Conway Bondanella, Peter Bondanella, 
Bruce Cole, Jody Robin Shiffman. Trans. Julia Bondanella & Peter Bondanella. 
University Park: U of Pennsylvania P, 1996. Pp. 146. 

This edition and translation opens with the following introductory chapters: “Titian: An 
Introduction” by Bruce Cole (1-10); “‘Artistic License’: Titian in the Works of Vasari 
and Ridolfi” by Jody Shiffman (11-48); and “Translators’ Note” by Julia Bondanella and 
Peter Bondanella (49-54).The volume concludes with Carlo Ridolfi’s work, “The Life of 


Titian Vecellio from Cadore, Painter and Knight” (55-146). 
Anne Tordi, Chapel Hill, NC 


446 Annali d’Italianistica 16 (1998) 


Archeografo triestino. Ed. Societa di Minerva. Serie 4. Vol. 57 (105 della raccolta). 
Trieste: Tipografia-litografia moderna, 1997. Pp. 681. 
This collection of essays commemorates the awarding of the biennial prize Minerva 
d’Argento on May 31, 1996. Among the many contributors are Genziana Marussi, Gino 
Pavan, Bruno Maier, Alberto Craievich, Daniela Mugittu, Mario Dassovich, Sergio 
Sghedoni and Paolo Marz. The essays cover various fields, including literature, art, 
history, naval engineering, and numismatics. 

Anne Tordi, Chapel Hill, NC 


A Collection of Monographs 
sponsored by 
Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Studi e Testi 


Directed 
by 


Luigi Monga 
& 
Dino S. Cervigni 


* 
AUGUSTUS A. MASTRI, ed. THE FLIGHT OF ULYSSES: ESSAYS IN 
MEMORY OF EMMANUEL HATZANTONIS. 
1997. 
ISBN 0-9657956-0-8 
U.S.A. $21. 


* KK 


ROSAMARIA LAVALVA. THE ETERNAL CHILD. 

THE POETRY AND POETICS OF GIOVANNI PASCOLI. 1999. 
ISBN 0-9657956-1-6 

U.S.A. $21. 


* KOK 


Prospective authors 
may contact either editor of the series 


* * 


Annali d’Italianistica 
Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Dey Hall 141, CB # 3170 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
Fax (919) 962 5457. E-mail: annali@metalab.unc.edu 


University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 


















The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 
1909, links its distinguished past of internationally known 
faculty and alumni to a lively and timely intellectual exchange 
in the present. The Department offers M.A. AND Ph.D. degrees 
in French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romance 
Philology. 





Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. 





Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispanofila, and Annali d’Italianistica. 


Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 4,000,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. Cooperative purchasing and borrowing programs 
with Duke University and North Carolina State University enhance the holdings 
of the Davis Library. 





















Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers 
numerous fellowships and teaching assistantships. Endowments enable the 
Department to offer supplemental scholarships to qualified students. Most 
students teach two or three sections of beginning language courses per academic 
year, according to their teaching experience and the University’s needs. 





Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to 
the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by 
writing to: The Graduate Secretary, Department of Romance Languages and 
Literatures, CB # 3170, 238 Dey Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. For more 
information visit the Depatment’s website: <http://www.unc/depts/roml>. 





Annali d’Italianistica 
AdI 






VOLUMES SOLD OUT 
(unbound photocopy available) 
1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 
2 (1984), Guicciardini 
3 (1985), Manzoni 
6 (1988), Film and Literature 























VOLUMES AVAILABLE 
4 (1986), Autobiography 
5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
9 (1991), Italy 1991: The Modern and the Postmodern 
10 (1992), Images of Columbus & the New World 
11 (1993), Goldoni 
12 (1994), The Italian Epic & Its International Context 
13 (1995), Italian Women Mystics 
14 (1996), Travel Literature 
15 (1997), Anthropology & Italian Literature 
16 (1998), Italian Cultural Studies 





VOLUMES IN PREPARATION 

17 (1999), New Landscapes in Contemporary Italian Cinema 
18 (2000), ... Beginnings/Endings/Beginnings 

ISSN 0741-7527 





Rates for U.S.A. and Canada: Individuals $18; Institutions $29; Agencies $27. 
Rates for countries outside North America: Individuals $18; Institutions $33; 
Agencies $30. Publication and shipping date: Fall of every year. Back issues: 

Add $3. Checks, in U.S. currency, should be made payable to Annali 
d’Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC 27599- 
3170. For 


queries post: <annali@metalab.unc.edu> 





century 
-1786. 


ted to for- 
popolani, 


and soldiers join in the celebration, a pageantry 
which takes place near the harbor, a spon- 


: 
ou Description 


sque 


Sicile. Paris, 1781 


et de 


+ 
=| 
is°) 
ep) 
— 
[o) 
c 
ie} 
g. 
n 
i) 
1o) 
ie) 
to) 
a 
ic?) 
& 
\conl 
sey 
ie} 
io) 8) 
£ 
> 
oO 
aT 
io) 8) 
fm 
ic?) 
2 
G 
ml 


S 


and fireworks. 


P 


Naple 


taneous, timeless popular event, alive with 
From Saint-Non's Voyage pittore: 


Rosalia in Palermo" presents many tradi- 
tional elements underscoring 18th 


Italian popular culture as it appea 
eign observers. Clergy, aristocrats 


prayers, songs 


des Royaumes de 


PSS it a 
iss 3 
| 


ae 


i 
= ae Le ve 
re hace 





